A  BOOK  OF  RECIPES 

FOR  THE 

COOKING  SCHOOL 


CARRIE  ALBERTA  LYFORD 


Class  _ J y  4  .^  -3 

CopyrightN^ 


COEffilGHT  DEPOSIT. 


A  BOOK  OF  RECIPES 


FOR  THE 


COOKING  SCHOOL 


BY 

CARRIE  ALBERTA  LYFORD 

DIRECTOR  OF  THE  HOME    ECONOMICS  SCHOOL 

AT 

THE  HAMPTON  NORMAL  AND  AGRICULTURAL  INSTITUTE 

FORMERLY 

SPECIALIST   IN  HOME   ECONOMICS 

UNITED  STATES  BUREAU  OF   EDUCATION 


^ 


Press  of 

The  Hampton  Normal  and  Agricultural  Institute 

Hampton,  Va. 


Copyrighted  August.  1921 

by 

Carrie  Alberta  Lyford 

Hampton,  Virginia 


OCT -7 '21 


g)C!.A624709 


-^?t^,    / 


INDEX 

''^  Introduction i 

■^   Cooking .    .            ....               .    .  2 

General  Rules 4 

^  Beverages . "  .           5 

i^^=c:  Vegetables 13 

Sauces  for  vegetables  and  meats 44 

Fruits 50 

Food  Preservation    .           55 

Candies 95 

Cereals 104 

Eggs no 

Omelets 114 

Souffles 117 

Milk 119 

Custards 123 

Cheese 126 

Soups 129 

Meats 142 

Poultry 170 

Fish        178 

Oysters 183 

Cooking  in  fats      187 

Croquettes 191 

Batters  and  Doughs 192 

Bread 210 

Sandwiches .    .  224 

Scalloped  Dishes 227 

Garnishings 228 

Salads     230 

Cakes 243 

Cake  Frostings 259 

Pastry 262 

Desserts 273 

Pudding  Sauces 289 

Frozen  Dishes 292 

Index 303 


INTRODUCTION 

A  BOOK  OF  RECIPES  FOR  THE  COOKING  SCHOOL 

This  book  of  recipes  is  prepared  for  the  use  of  the  many 
teachers  and  students  of  cooking  who  feel  the  need  of  standard 
recipes  for  the  every-day  dishes  with  directions  simply  and 
concisely  stated. 

The  book  represents  a  compilation  of  recipes  that  have 
been  in  use  in  cooking  schools  of  the  country  for  many  years. 
It  is  not  designed  for  the  use  of  experienced  cooks  who  are 
seeking  a  wider  variety  and  a  greats  elaboration  of  recipes 
but  for  the  young  cook  who  desires  to  prepare  simple  dishes 
well.  Each  recipe  has  been  carefully  ^tested  and  every  care 
has  been  taken  to  state  the  directions  definitely.  In  every  class 
which  has  used  the  recipes  and  with  every  teacher  with  whom 
the  compiler  has  worked,  suggestions,  criticisms,  and  improve- 
ments have  been  made,  so  that  the  book  represents  the  combined 
labors  of  many  students  of  cooking.  The  chapter  on  Food 
Preservation  contains  the  material  used  in  a  Hampton  leaflet 
prepared  with  the  aid  of  Miss  Alma  Kruse  whose  faithful  la- 
bors made  its   completion  possible. 

To  all  who  have  thus  aided  in  the  preparation  of  the 
recipes  sincerest  gratitude  is  hereby  expressed,  and  the  com- 
piler hopes  that  this  publication  will  be  the  means  of  extend- 
ing to  young  teachers  the  benefits  of  practices  that  have  proved 
of  value  in  many  schools  of  cooking. 


COOKING 

Cooking  is  the  preparation  of  food  for  the  table  by  dressing 
it  or  by  the  application  of  heat  in  some  manner. 

The  processes  of  cooking  include  the  preparation,  se- 
lection, and  changing  of  natural  food  products  with  the  aid  of 
the  various  kinds  of  heat  or  with  the  assistance  of  the  various 
processes  of  fermentation  or  through  the  agency  of  different  ad- 
mixtures. 

The  reasons  for  cooking  foods  stated  briefly  are  as  follows : 

1  To  make  the  food  attractive.    Example — meats. 

2  To  make  the  food  palatable.   Example — eggs. 

3  To  make  the  food   digestible   and  nourishing.    Ex- 

ample— potatoes,  cereals,  breads. 

4  To  destroy  parasites  and  germs.    Example — in  water, 

milk,  pork,  oysters. 

5  To  introduce  heat  into  the  body  and  stimulate  the 

digestive  organs.     Example — soups  and  beverages. 
The  methods  of  cooking  may  be  summarized  as  follows : 

1  In  a  medium  of  dry  heat. 

a     Cooking  by  direct  application  of  intense  heat — 

broiling  and  toasting, 
b     Cooking  by  indirect  application  of  intense  heat — 

roasting  and  baking. 

2  In  a  medium  of  moist  heat. 

a  Cooking  by  direct  application  of  hot  water — 
boiling  and  stewing. 

b     Cooking  by  direct  application  of  steam — steaming. 

c  Cooking  by  indirect  contact  with  boiling  water- 
double  boiler. 

3  In  a  medium  of  hot  fat. 

Cooking  by  direct  contact  with  hot  fat. 


a     Frying,  in  a  large  amount  of  fat. 
b     Sauteing,  in  a  small  amount  of  fat. 

4  By  direct  contact  with  heated  metal — Pan-broiling. 

5  Cooking  by  means  of  a  combination  of  moist  air  and 
dry  air.   (Stewing  and  baking.) 

a     Braizing  and  pot-roasting  in  a  kettle. 

b     Casserole  cookery  in  a  covered  casserole  in  oven. 

6  Cooking  by  means  of  a  combination  of  hot  fat  and 

hot  water   (frying  and  stewing) — Fricasseeing. 
The  results  of  cooking  foods  are: 

1  Physical.    Examples — softening  of  cellulose,  lique- 

faction of  gelatine. 

2  Chemical.    Examples — changes  in  starch,  splitting 

up  of  fats,  action  of  baking  powder. 

3  Bacteriological.    Examples — destruction   of   germs 

in  meats,  milk,  and  fruits,  or  cultivation  of  germ 
life  as  in  preparation  of  bread,  cheese  and  butter. 

Success  in  cooking  depends  upon  intelligent  handling  of 
materials  and  control  of  the  cooking  medium.  It  is  as  essen- 
tial to  know  how  to  buy  and  how  to  prepare  the  food  as  it  is 
to  know  how  to  cook  it.  Absolute  cleanliness  must  be  exer- 
cised in  handling  food  and  this  can  best  be  secured  by  orderly 
procedure  in  carrying  on  the  work.  Accuracy  of  measurement 
is  the  only  means  of  securing  uniform  results.  A  complete 
knowledge  of  the  stove  and  how  to  regulate  it,  is  essential  if 
the  cook  is  to  find  joy  in  her  work. 

Good  food  materials  must  be  used  to  secure  good  results. 
This  does  not  mean  that  the  foods  of  highest  price  must  always 
be  purchased  but  that  everything  used  must  be  in  good  condi- 
tion. Cheaper  fats  can  often  be  substituted  for  butter  when 
cooking.  So  long  as  such  fats  are  fresh  and  of  delicate  flavor 
the  resulting  cooked  dishes  will  be  satisfactory.  Though  but- 
ter is  very  generally  named  as  the  fat  to  be  used  in  the  recipes, 


it  is  hoped  that  the  housewife  will  often  substitute  cheaper  fats 
that  give  satisfaction.  Oleomargarine  has  long  proved  its  use- 
fulness as  a  fat  to  be  relied  upon  in  cooking  and  can  well  be 
substituted  for  butter  in  batters  of  all  sorts.  Lard  and  beef 
drippings  can  serve  to  replace  butter  in  many  bread  and  pastry- 
recipes.  It  may  be  found  necessary  to  alter  the  amount  of  fat 
used  as  the  kind  is  varied. 

The  fireless  cooker  can  advantageously  be  used  for  many 
of  the  longer  processes  of  cooking.  After  the  food  has  been 
well  heated  through  ^and  the  cooking  process  has  begun,  the 
dishes  may  be  placed  in  the  fireless  cooker  to  complete  the  cook- 
ing. For  cereals  and  stews  that  require  very  long  cooking  the 
fireless  cooker  is  a  great  aid  to  the  housewife  relieving  her  of 
the  necessity  of  watching  the  cooking  and  at  the  same  time 
economizing  the  amount  of  fuel  used. 

GENERAL   RULES   TO  FOLLOW   IN  USING  RECIPES 

Accuracy  of  measurement  is  absolutely  necessary  in  order 
to  secure  uniform  results.  Although  greater  accuracy  can  be  se- 
cured by  making  all  measurements  by  weight,  the  average 
housekeeper  is  not  provided  wdth  scales  that  are  sufficiently 
accurate  to  make  the  weighing  of  small  quantities  feasible; 
therefore,  the  recipes  are  given  with  quantities  indicated  by 
cup  and  spoon  measurements. 

Use  a  standard  measuring  cup  that  holds  one  half  pint. 

Make  all  cup  and  spoon  measurements  level. 

Measure  a  fraction  of  a  cupful  or  of  a  spoonful  carefully. 

Sift  dry  ingredients  before  measuring  and  measure  them 
lightly. 

Pack  butter  and  lard  when  measuring  in  a  cup  or  spoon. 

Measure  all  dry  ingredients  first,  before  measuring  but- 


ter  or  liquids,  in  order  to  economize  in  the  number  of  utensils 
necessary. 

Table    of    Measurements 

1  measuring  cup         =     Yi  pint 
16  tablespoonsful       =    1   cup 
3  teaspoonsful  =    1  tablespoon. 

BEVERAGES 

COFFEE 

When  possible  it  is  desirable  that  coffee  be  roasted  shortly 
before  it  is  to  be  prepared  and  ground  at  the  time  of  making, 
as  the  flavor  is  quickly  lost  after  roasting,  particularly  if  the 
coffee  be  ground.  Therefore  unless  purchased  in  small  quan- 
tities, it  is  best  kept  unroasted.  Roasted  coffee  must  be  kept  in 
well  covered  containers. 

The  purpose  in  cooking  coffee  is  to  extract  the  essential  oil 
and  caffeine  and  at  the  same  time  draw  out  as  little  of  the  tannic 
acid  as  possible. 

Coffee  is  prepared  by  filtration,  percolation,  and  boiling. 
The  first  two  methods  extract  the  essential  oil  and  caffeine  with 
but  little  of  the  tannic  acid.  If  boiled  coffee  is  carefully  made 
the  amount  of  tannic  acid  drawn  out  is  small.  Coffee  should 
not  be  boiled  for  more  than  eight  minutes. 

When  coffee  is  to  be  reheated,  it  should  not  be  left  on  the 
grounds  as  added  cooking  tends  to  draw  out  the  tannic  acid. 

Two  level  tablespoons  of  coffee  are  allowed  for  each  cup 
to  be  served. 

Coffee  is  at  its  best  served  "black"  or  clear.  Hot  milk 
and  cream  are  served  in  coffee.  When  milk  or  cream  and  sugar 
are  added  the  food  value  of  the  coffee  is  increased,  as  is  also 
the  work  of  digestion. 


Boiled    Coffee 

1  cup  coarsely  ground  coffee  5  cups  boiling  water 

^  cup  cold  water  (freshly  boiling) 

Yz  white  of  egg  and  egg  shell  ^  cup  cold  water, 
(crushed) 

Mix  the  coffee  with  ^  cup  cold  water,  the  white  of  egg  and 
shell  and  add  boiling  water.  Boil  8  minutes,  pour  out  1  cup  of 
coffee,  and  return  to  the  coffee  pot;  add  ^  cup  cold  water  and 
let  settle  5  minutes.  A  rich  coffee,  excellent  for  after-dinner  cof- 
fee.    Serves  8  to  10  cups. 

The  Qgg  may  be  omitted  and  the  coffee  grounds  tied  in  a 
small  piece  of  cheesecloth  and  removed  from  the  coffee  pot  after 
the  coffee  has  been  boiled  8  minutes. 

Filtered   Coffee 

1  cup  very  finely  ground  coffee 

5  cups  boiling  water  (freshly  boiling) 

Scald  a  filter  coffee  pot.  Put  the  coffee  into  the  upper 
part  of  the  coffee  pot  and  pour  the  boiling  water  slowly  through 
it.  The  coffee  pot  must  be  kept  hot  while  the  coffee  is  being 
made.     Serves  8.  . 

Percolated  Coffee 

y2  cup  finely  ground  coft'ee  3  cups  water 

Put  the  coffee  in  the  upper  part  of  the  percolator  and  the 
water  in  the  lower  part.  Heat  the  water  and  allow^  it  to  perco- 
late through  the  coffee  for  20  minutes.    Serves  6. 

Cereal  Coffee 

1  cup  cereal  coffee.       5  cups  boiling  water    (freshly  boiling) 
^  cup  cold  water 

Mix  the  coffee  with  cold  water,  add  the  boiling  water;  boil 
20  minutes,  let  settle  5  minutes,  and  serve  hot.    Serves  8. 


TEA 

There  is  a  great  variety  of  good  teas  on  the  market,  both 
black  and  green.  The  choice  of  tea  is  largely  a  matter  of  in- 
di\ddual  preference. 

Tea  should  always  be  kept  in  a  tightly  covered  can  or  jar 
to  protect  it  from  the  air  and  moisture,  because  of  the  volatile 
oil  present. 

In  the  preparation  of  the  beverage  the  purpose  is  to  draw 
out  the  volatile  oil  and  caffeine  from  the  leaf  into  the  water. 
Boiling  water  must  be  poured  over  the  leaves  to  obtain  these 
results  and  if  the  water  is  then  allowed  to  stand  on  the  leaves 
Avithout  boiling  for  only  three  or  four  minutes,  the  best  results 
are  obtained.  A  longer  infusion  draws  out  the  bitter  and  harm- 
ful tannic  acid,  making  the  beverage  not  only  unpleasant  to  the 
taste  but  also  harmful  to  the  body. 

As  tannic  acid  acts  on  some  metals,  it  is  not  desirable  to 
use  a  metal  tea  pot.  China  and  earthen  ware  are  best;  earthen 
ware  is  especially  desirable,  because  it  holds  the  heat. 

The  tea  pot  should  be  scalded  out  and  heated  before  the 
tea  is  put  in.  The  water  used  should  be  freshly  boiling  and  the 
tea  pot  tightly  covered  during  the  infusion. 

A  tea  strainer  or  tea  ball  may  be  used  to  prepare  one  cup 
of  tea  at  a  time.  The  tea  cup  must  be  scalded  and  boiling 
water  poured  over  the  tea  leaves. 

One  cannot  economize  in  the  preparation  of  tea  by  allowing 
a  longer  time  for  steeping  for  that  ruins  the  beverage.  When 
a  stronger  tea  is  desired,  more  leaves  must  be  used. 

Tea  is  at  its  best  served  clear;  lemon  is  often  added  (Rus- 
sian tea) ;  cloves  and  candied  orange  peel  give  a  pleasing 
variety;  cream  and  sugar  are  much  used,  and  increase  the  food 
value  of  the  beverage. 


Tea 

1  teaspoon  green  tea  or  2  cups  boiling  water 

2  teaspoons  black  tea  (freshly  boiling) 
Scald  the  teapot,  put  the  tea  in  the  teapot  and  pour  boiling 

water  over  it.     Cover  closely  but  do  not  boil.     Steep  3  minutes, 
strain,  and  serve,  adding  hot  water  if  desired.     Serves  4. 

Iced   Tea 

Follow  recipe  for  tea  using  double  the  quantity  of  tea 
called  for.  Strain  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Chill  and  serve  with 
chipped  ice  and  sliced  lemon.  Black  tea  is  more  desirable  for 
iced  tea. 

CHOCOLATE 

An  unsweetened  chocolate  gives  the  best  results  for  cook- 
ing purposes. 

Chocolate  may  become  rancid  if  kept  too  long  because  of 
the  large  amount  of  fat  present.  Moisture  and  heat  must  be 
excluded  from  both  chocolate  and  cocoa  in  order  to  keep  them  in 
good  condition.  It  is  well  to  keep  chocolate  in  a  tightly  covered 
tin  box.  , 

The  purpose  of  cooking  chocolate  and  cocoa  is  to  develop 
flavor,  to  cook  the  starch,  and  to  combine  with  other  food  mater- 
ials as  a  flavor.  For  cooking  purposes  unsweetened  chocolate 
gives  the  best  results.  When  cakes  rich  in  chocolate  are  baked 
some  soda  is  required  because  of  the  presence  of  fatty  acids  in 
the  chocolate. 

Heat  readily  reduces  chocolate  to  a  smooth  paste  which 
burns  easily;  therefore  chocolate  should  be  cooked  at  a  moderate 
temperature. 

Both  chocolate  and  cocoa  should  be  combined  with  sugar 
and  a  small  amount  of  the  liquid  and  cooked  to  a  smooth  paste 
before  adding  the  full  quantity  of  liquid. 

Chocolate  should  be  cooked  only  a  short  time  in  order  to 
avoid  the  separation  of  the  fat. 


Cocoa  should  be  cooked  half  an  hour  in  order  to  cook  the 
starch  thoroughly  and  to  develop  flavor. 

AA'ater  can  always  be  substituted  for  milk  in  the  recipes 
and  the  result  will  still  be  good  though  the  beverage  will  not  be 
so  rich.     For  a  richer  beverage  cream  may  be  added. 

Both  condensed  and  evaporated  milk  give  excellent 
results  with  chocolate  and  cocoa  and  may  entirely  replace  sweet 
milk.    If  the  condensed  milk  is  used,  sugar  need  not  be  added. 

The  process  of  "milling"  or  whipping  is  necessary  after 
cooking  chocolate  or  cocoa  in  order  to  avoid  formation  of  the 
albuminous  skin  over  the  beverage. 

Chocolate  and  cocoa  are  served  plain  or  with  cream.  The 
cream  may  be  plain  or  whipped  and  the  whipped  cream  may  be 
sweetened  or  unsweetened.  Sometimes  the  well-beaten  white  of 
an  egg  is  added  to  the  whipped  cream  to  increase  its  volume. 

Chocolate 

1  qt.  milk  or  2  oz.  chocolate. 

1  qt.  milk  and  Vv'ater.       ys  cup  sugar 
^lelt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water,  add  the  sugar  and  then, 
the  hot  liquid  slowly;   boil  5   minutes  directly  over  the  heat, 
beat  well  and  serve.     A  richer  beverage  may  be  made  by  using 
3  ounces  of  chocolate.     Serves  8  to  10. 

Cocoa 

^  cup  cocoa  Icup  water 

^cup  sugar  3  cups  milk 

Mix  the  cocoa  and  sugar  with  the  w^ater  and  boil  10  min- 
utes; stir  into  the  hot  milk  and  then  cook  in  double  boiler  ^ 
hour.     Serves  8  to  10. 

FRUIT  BEVERAGES 

Beverages  prepared  from  fresh  fruits  and  served  cold  are 
welcome  and  refreshing  in  hot  weather  and  are  frequently  use- 
ful during  sickness. 


10 


The  citrus  fruits  usually  form  the  basis  of  such  fruit  bever- 
ages and  can  be  used  alone  or  in  combination  with  other  fruits. 

The  recipes  can  be  varied  as  different  fruits  are  in  season 
and  as  use  is  made  of  the  various  canned  fruit  juices. 

Sugar  should  be  used  with  discretion  in  fruit  beverages 
and  water  should  be  added  as  necessary.  The  quantities  of 
sugar  and  water  used  in  the  recipes  will  have  to  be  varied  ac- 
cording to  the  acidity  and  strength  of  the  fruit  juices. 

Strawberries,  cherries,  diced  pineapple  and  sliced  bananas 
are  used  as  garnish  in  fruit  drinks. 

Lemonade 

^  cup  lemon  juice  1  quart  water 

1  cup  sugar 
Add  sugar  to  lemon  juice   and   stir  until   sugar  is   dis- 
solved.   Add  cold  water,  stir  well,  strain  and  add  more  water  if 
desired.     Serve  very  cold. 

The  juice  of  one  lemon  equals  3  tablespoons.  Allow  1^ 
tablespoons  juice  to  each  glass.     Serves  6. 

Orangeade 

6  oranges  1  cup  sugar 

2  lemons,  juice  1  quart  water 

Add  the  sugar  to  the  juice  of  the  oranges  and  lemons  and 
stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  If  desired  add  grated  rind  of 
one  half  lemon  and  one  half  orange.  Add  cold  water,  strain, 
and  serve  cold.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Strawberryade 

1  cup  strawberry  juice  4  cups  water 

2  lemons,  juice  ^  cup  pineapple  juice 

Yz  cup  sugar  or  shredded  pineapple 

Add  lemon  juice  and  sugar  to  strawberry  juice,  then  add 
cold  water  and  pineapple.    Serve  very  cold.    Serves  6  to  8. 


11 


Grape   Fruit   Juice 

2  grape  fruit,  juice  |  cup  sugar 

2  lemons,  juice  1  quart  water 

Add  the  lemon  juice  and  sugar  to  the  grape  fruit  juice. 

Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  add  cold  water  and  strain. 

Serve  very  cold.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Fruit  Drink 

2  oranges  1  quart  water 

2  lemons  1  cup  sugar 

1  grape  fruit  1  cup  shredded 

pineapple 
Add  the  grated  rind  of  one  orange  to  the  sugar  and  water 
and  boil  for  a  few  minutes.     Cool  and  add  to  the  juice  of  the 
lemons,   oranges,   and  grape   fruit.      Strain,   add  the   shredded 
pineapple  and  serve  very  cold.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Fruit  Punch 

1  cup  water  2  teaspoons  tea 
1  ^  quarts  water                                4  lemons 

2  cloves  2  oranges 

1  stick  cinnamon  ^  cup  shredded 

pineapple 
Add  one  quart  of  water  to  the  sugar.  Add  cinnamon^ 
cloves  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Boil  5  min.  Steep  the  tea 
with  one  pint  boiling  water  for  3  min.  Strain  and  add  to  the 
syrup.  Add  the  lemon  and  orange  juice  strained  and  the 
shredded  pineapple.     Serve  very  cold.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Grape  Juice  Punch 

1  pint  grape  juice  V^.  cup  sugar 

2  lemons  1  quart  water 

Add  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  the  sugar  to  the  grape 
juice  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  the  water,  strain 
and  serve  very  cold.  The  strength  of  the  grape  juice  will  vary,, 
hence  more  grape  juice  and  more  sugar  may  be  required.  Serves 
6  to  8. 


VEGETABLES 

Vegetables  should  be  used  when  they  are  in  season,  as  they 
are  always  cheapest  and  at  their  best  then.  One  should  select 
those  that  are  fresh  and  of  good  quality.  Those  of  medium 
size  are  usually  best.  They  should  be  kept  in  a  cold,  dark, 
dry  place  until  ready  to  use. 

Cooking   of   Vegetables 

Vegetables  are  cooked  to  soften  the  cellulose,  to  cook  the 
starch,  and  to  develop  the  flavor.  Methods  of  cooking  com- 
monly employed  for  vegetables  are  boiling,  steaming,  baking  and 
frying. 

Prepare  vegetables  by  washing  thoroughly,  with  a  small 
scrub  brush,  and  paring  or  scraping,  if  the  skins  are  to  be  re- 
moved. They  are  always  better  if  the  skin  is  not  removed  be- 
fore cooking  and  if  they  are  kept  as  nearly  whole  as  possible. 
After  paring  put  all  vegetables  into  cold  water  until  ready  to 
cook,  to  keep  them  crisp  and  to  prevent  their  being  discolored. 
If  withered  let  them  stand  in  cold  water  for  some  time. 

Cellulose  forms  the  basis  for  the  framework  of  all  vege- 
tables. In  old  or  exceedingly  large  vegetables  this  cellulose 
may  be  very  tough,  hence  longer  cooking  may  be  required.  In 
most  vegetables  the  cellulose  is  more  coarse  in  one  part  of  the 
vegetable  than  in  the  others.  Cabbage  has  a  coarse  mid-rib  of 
cellulose.  Celery  has  strings  of  cellulose  down  the  stalk.  Car- 
rots have  a  tough  center  of  cellulose  which  becomes  very  hard 
in  the  old  vegetable.  Turnips  have  a  heavy  layer  of  cellulose 
on  the  outside. 

General  Directions   for  Cooking  Vegetables  in  Water 

Strong  flavored  vegetables  (as  turnips,  onions,  cabbage,  and 
cauliflower)  may  be  cooked  uncovered  in  rapidly  boiling  water 
in  order  to  drive  off  some  of  the  odor  and  flavor. 

12 


13 


Delicately-flavored  vegetables  (as  spinach,  asparagus,  and 
green  peas)  are  best  if  cooked  uncovered,  slowly,  in  a  small 
amount  of  boiling  water  until  the  vegetable  is  tender  and  the 
water  boils  away. 

Starchy  vegetables  (as  potatoes,  carrots  and  parsnips) 
should  be  cooked  in  a  sufficiently  large  amount  of  boiling  water 
to  cover  them.  The  water  should  boil  gently  and  the  kettle  be 
kept  covered. 

\\^ater  should  be  kept  boiling  continuously  while  vegetables 
are  cooking.  If  it  is  necessary  to  replenish  water,  boiling  water 
should  be  added.  When  vegetables  are  partially  cooked,  add  1 
teaspoonful  salt  to  each  quart  of  water.  Cook  until  vegetable 
can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork. 

All  boiled  vegetables  should  be  drained  well  as  soon  as 
tender  if  an  excess  of  water  has  been  used.  After  cooking 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  hot  with  butter  or  white 
sauce. 

When  practicable  it  is  better  to  steam  than  to  boil  vege- 
tables, because  there  is  less  loss  of  food  value.  Put  the 
vegetables  on  a  plate  in  the  steamer,  cover  closely,  set  over 
boiling  water,  and  keep  the  water  boiling  steadily  until  the 
vegetables  are  tender. 

Proportions  for  seasoning  1  cup  vegetables  are  Yz  teaspoon 
salt,  yi  teaspoon  pepper,  ^  tablespoon  butter.  Proportions  for 
medium  white  sauce  are  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons 
flour,  1  cup  liquid,  1  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  pepper — suf- 
ficient for  2  cups  cooked  vegetables. 

All  dried  vegetables  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  before 
cooking.  Because  of  the  large  amount  of  tough  skin  on  dried 
peas  and  beans  both  soaking  and  cooking  may  require  several 
hours.  If  water  contains  much  lime  it  does  not  soften  them 
readily,  hence  it  is  sometimes  desirable  to  add  a  little  soda  to  the 
^vater  to  precipitate  the  lime. 


14 


Time  Table  for  Cooking  Vegetables  in   Water 

Asparagus    20-30  min.  Mustard  Greens   .  .30-45  min. 

Beans,  lima    1-1^  hrs.   Okra   20  min. 

Beans,  string    1-3  hrs.   Onions    45-60  min. 

Beets,  old 3-4  hrs.   Parsnips    30-45  min. 

Beets,  young   %-l  hr.   Peas,  green 20-45  min. 

Cabbage 20  min.  Potatoes,  sweet  ....  20-30  min. 

Carrots    ^-1  hr.  Potatoes,  white  .      20-30  min. 

Cauliflower    20-30  min.  Salsify  or  oyster 

Celery  20-30  min.       plant    45-60  min. 

Collards    20-30  min.    Spinach    15-45  min. 

Corn,  green 10-20  min.   Squash    20-30  min. 

Egg  plant 30  min.    Swiss  Chard 30-40  min. 

Kale    25-45  min.   Tomatoes    y^-l  hr. 

Kohl  Rabi    30-50  min.   Turnips    30-40  min. 

ASPARAGUS 

Asparagus  should  be  used  while  young  and  fresh,  and 
should  be  carefully  cooked  in  order  to  preserve  the  delicate 
flavor.  Its  food  value  is  not  high,  but  it  is  always  a  welcome 
addition  to  the  diet  and  is  of  value  because  of  the  mineral  mat- 
ter it  contains.  It  can  be  served  cold  in  salads  as  well  as  hot 
with  meat  and  potatoes. 

Boiled   Asparagus 

Wash,  trim,  remove  the  woody  part  of  the  stems,  and  tie 
asparagus  in  bundles,  or  cut  in  1-inch  lengths.  Put  in  salted 
water  and  boil  slowly  in  an  uncovered  saucepan  until  stalks 
are  tender.  Season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  or  with  a 
white  sauce.     Serve  on  hot  toast  if  desired. 

BEANS 

Beans  are  a  valuable  vegetable  for  the  table,  either  served 
green  in  the  pod  or  matured  and  removed  from  the  shell. 


15 


Green   String  or  Wax  Beans 

Green  beans  do  not  have  high  nutritive  value  but  they 
suppl}-  valuable  minerals  and  needed  bulk.  They  may  be 
boiled,  seasoned,  and  served  as  an  accompaniment  to  the  meat 
course.  Cream  or  white  sauce  may  be  added  before  serving. 
Salt  pork  may  be  cooked  with  the  beans  to  give  additional  flavor. 
Cold  cooked  beans  may  be  used  in  salads. 

Dried  Beans 

Mature  beans  provide  a  good  meat  substitute  and  may  be 
cooked  in  a  variety  of  ways.  Baked  beans  and  bean  soup  are 
probably  the  most  popular  methods  of  using  dried  beans. 

Boston  Baked  Beans 

1  quart  navy  beans  2  tablespoons  molasses 

1  tablespoon  salt  1  cup  boiling  water 

y2  tablespoon  mustard  ^  pound  fat  salt  pork 

3  tablespoons  sugar  Boiling  water  to  cover. 

Pick  beans  over  and  soak  in  cold  water  over  night. 
In  the  morning  drain,  cover  with  fresh  water,  and  heat 
slowly  until  the  skins  burst,  but  do  not  let  the  beans  become 
broken. 

Scald  Yz  pound  fat  salt  pork;  scrape  it;  put  a  slice  in  the 
bottom  of  the  bean  pot.  Cut  the  remaining  pork  across  top  in 
strips  just  through  the  rind,  and  bury  the  pork  in  the  beans, 
leaving  the  rind  exposed. 

Add  1  cup  boiling  water  to  seasonings  and  pour  over  the 
beans.  Cover  with  boiling  water.  Bake  slowly,  adding  more 
water  as  necessary.  Bake  from  6  to  8  hours;  uncover  at  the  last 
so  that  the  water  will  evaporate  and  beans  brown  on  top. 
Serves  12. 

Green   Lima   Beans   or   Butter  Beans 

Cover  1  quart  of  the  shelled  beans  with  boiling  water.  Boil 
up   quickly   at   first,   then   boil   slowly   until   done    (45    to   60 


16 


minutes),  allowing  water  to  boil  away  at  the  last.  When  tender 
pour  off  a  part  of  the  water  if  too  much  remains.  Season  the 
beans  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
or  serve  with  a  white  sauce. 

BEETS 

The  whole  of  the  young  beet  plant,  including  the  root,  may 
be  pulled  and  used  while  fresh  for  "greens."  It  is  valuable  for 
the  organic  acids  and  minerals  it  provides.  When  more  nearly 
mature  the  beet  is  boiled  without  the  tops.  The  mature  beet 
may  be  stored  and  kept  through  the  winter  and  if  boiled  till 
tender  is  excellent  as  a  source  of  sugar  and  starch,  thus  pro- 
viding heat  and  energy  to  the  body  and  giving  a  welcome  varia- 
tion in  the  vegetable  foods.  Care  must  be  taken  in  handling  and 
cooking  beets  not  to  break  the  skin  or  injure  the  beet,  for  the 
soluble  sugar  and  attractive  coloring  are  easily  lost.  Beets  are 
sometimes  pickled  and  used  as  a  relish,  and  are  an  attractive 
addition  to  vegetable  salads. 

Boiled  Beets 

Wash  the  beets,  leaving  2  or  3  inches  of  the  top  on  until 
cooked,  and  cook  whole  until  tender.  Young  beets  will  cook  in 
1  hour,  old  beets  require  a  longer  time.  Put  in  cold  water, 
pare,  slice  and  reheat  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  The  butter 
may  be  omitted  and  vinegar  used  or  the  beets  may  be  cut  in 
small  cubes  and  served  in  a  white  sauce. 

BRUSSELS   SPROUTS 

Brussels  sprouts  are  of  the  same  class  as  the  cabbage  and 
are  prepared,  cooked  and  seasoned  in  the  same  way,  but  because 
of  their  small  size,  it  is  possible  to  leave  them  whole. 


17 


CABBAGE 

Cabbage  can  be  used  in  many  ways,  both  uncooked  and 
cooked.  Prolonged  cooking  renders  cabbage  somewhat  difficult 
of  digestion;  therefore  care  should  be  taken  to  cook  cabbage 
only  long  enough  to  soften  the  cellulose. 

Boiled    Cabbage 

Cut  cabbage  in  quarters  and  soak  ^^  hour  in  cold  salt 
water  to  draw  out  any  insects.  Cut  in  large  pieces  or  chop 
evenly.  Cook  till  tender  in  a  large  amount  of  boiling  salted 
water  about  20  minutes.  Leave  kettle  uncovered.  Drain  and 
serve  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  or  with  a  drawn  butter  sauce 
flavored  with  vinegar. 

Creamed   Cabbage 

1  pint  boiled  cabbage       1  recipe  white  sauce 

White  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  ^  teaspoon  white 

or  other  fat  pepper 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  milk,  heated 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Heat  the  butter.  When  it  bubbles  add  flour  and  seasonings, 
add  hot  milk  gradually,  stirring  constantly  and  allowing  the 
mixture  to  thicken  and  bubble  each  time  before  adding  another 
portion  of  the  milk.  Boil  up  once  and  sauce  is  ready  to  serve. 
Pour  the  white  sauce  over  the  boiled  cabbage,  heat  till 
bubbling,  and  serve  hot.     Serves  6  or  8. 

Scalloped  Cabbage 

3  cups  chopped  cabbage  1^  cups  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  to 

other  fat  which 

3  tablespoons  flour  1  tablespoon  butter  or 
Yz  teaspoon  salt  other  fat  is  added 
^  teaspoon  white  pepper 


18 


Boil  cabbage  until  tender,  drain  well,  put  into  a  well- 
greased  baking  dish,  and  pour  over  it  a  white  sauce  made  of  the 
butter,  flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  milk.  Cover  with  the  buttered 
crumbs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  crumbs  are  a  golden 
brown,  about  15  minutes.     Serves  6  or  8. 

The  same  recipe  may  be  used  to  prepare  scalloped  potatoes, 
scalloped  corn,  scalloped  asparagus,  scalloped  cauliflower,  scal- 
loped onions,  and  scalloped  carrots.  (  See  scalloped  dishes). 

Cabbage  Boiled  with  Pork  or  Corned  Beef 

If  cabbage  is  to  be  cooked  with  boiled  salt  pork  or  corned 
beef,  add  to  it  the  boiled  meat  one-half  hour  before  it  is  to  be 
served  and  boil  vigorously  until  tender,  leaving  the  kettle  un- 
covered. 

Sauer  Kraut 

See  directions  for  making  sauer  kraut. 
When  ready  to  use  sauer  kraut,  drain  it  and  boil  till  tender 
in  hot  water  or  cook  in  hot  fat.     Season  to  taste. 

Sauer  Kraut  with  Fresh  Pork 

Cover  sauer  kraut  with  boiling  water,  add  fresh  pork  and 
boil  until  the  meat  is  very  tender  and  falls  from  the  bones.  Re- 
move bones.     Season  to  taste. 

CARROTS 

Delicate  young  carrots  procured  from  the  garden  during 
the  summer  and  fall  are  an  acceptable  addition  to  the  daily 
menu.  They  may  be  cooked  alone  or  combined  with  meat  dishes, 
soups,  and  salads  to  give  added  flavor.  Older  carrots  may  be  kept 
for  use  through  the  winter  if  stored  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  They 
are  used  in  the  same  ways  that  young  carrots  are  used  but  are 
more  tough  in  texture  and  stronger  in  flavor  than  young  carrots. 
The  outside  skin  of  the  carrot  may  be  removed  by  scraping  after 
it  has  been  thoroughly  scrubbed.     Carrots  have  considerable 


19 


nutritive  value  because  of  the  sugar,  starch,  and  mineral  matter 
which  they  contain.  They  provide  needed  bulk  to  the  diet  and 
may  be  used  with  meats  or  fish  when  some  more  juicy  vegetable 
is  served  at  the  same  meal. 

Creamed  Carrots 

1  pint  carrots. 

1  recipe  medium  white  sauce  (see  creamed  cabbage) 
Scrape  the  carrot  slightly;  then  cut  into  large  dice  or  slices. 
Young  carrots  may  be  cooked  whole.  If  the  heart  of  old  car- 
rots is  hard  and  woody,  remove  it  before  cooking.  Put  into  a 
stewpan  with  boiling  salted  water  to  cover,  allowing  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  for  a  quart  of  water,  and  boil  until  tender.  Young 
carrots  will  cook  in  30  minutes  and  the  water  should  be  allowed 
to  boil  away.  Old  carrots  require  45  minutes  boiling.  Drain 
well  and  add  to  the  white  sauce.    Serves  6  to  8. 

CAULIFLOWER 

Soak  cauliflower  in  cold  salt  water  to  draw  out  insects.  Tie 
in  cheese  cloth  to  prevent  falling  to  pieces,  put  into  a  large 
amount  of  boiling  water  and  boil  rapidly  until  tender  (20-30 
min.)  leaving  kettle  uncovered. 

Cauliflo'wer   au    Gratin 

1  head  cauliflower  1  cup  milk  or  cream 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  1  teaspoon  onion  juice 

other  fat.  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

2  tablespoons  flour  ^  cup  bread  crumbs 

y^  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  butter 

Dash  of  pepper 

Boil  the  cauliflower  in  salted  water  till  tender,  about  30 
minutes.  Prepare  a  white  sauce  with  2  tablespoons  butter, 
flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  milk.  Add  onion  juice  and  cheese. 
Break  cauliflower  up  in  pieces,  put  in  baking  dish,  cover  with 
white  sauce  and  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs.     Place  in  a 


20 


hot   oven   until   the   crumbs    are   a   golden   brown,    about    20 
minutes.     Serves  6  to  8.      (See  scalloped  dishes). 

CELERY 

Separate  the  pieces  of  celery  from  the  root  and  wash  each 
piece  thoroughly.  Remove  any  discolored  portions  with  a  knife. 
Cut  off  the  leaves  and  keep  them  for  garnishing  or  for  soup. 
Reserve  coarse  or  broken  pieces,  leaves,  and  roots  for  cooking. 
Serve  all  the  delicate,  crisp  pieces  uncooked  with  salt  or  use 
them   in   salads. 

Creamed  Celery 

3  stalks  celery  1  recipe  medium  white  sauce 

Wash  and  scrape  the  celery,  cut  in  ^  inch  pieces,  cover 

with  boiling  water,  and  cook  until  tender    (20-30   minutes), 

drain  and  serve  with  a  white  sauce,  using  the  water  in  which 

the  celery  has  been  cooked  as  stock  in  the  sauce.     Serves  6. 

COLLARDS 

In  those  parts  of  the  country  where  collards  grow  readily 
they  are  among  the  most  valuable  greens  and  give  a  much 
needed  variety  to  the  diet.  They  belong  to  the  cabbage  family 
and  are  valuable  for  their  bulk  and  for  the  mineral  matter  they 
contain. 

After  washing  collards  thoroughly,  add  to  a  large  amount 
of  rapidly  boiling  water,  and  boil  for  15  or  20  minutes  or 
until  perfectly  tender.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter 
or  serve  with  white  sauce. 

CORN 

Green  corn  is  a  valuable  table  vegetable,  both  fresh  and 
canned,  because  of  its  agreeable  flavor  and  the  cellulose  which 
provides  necessary  bulk  to  the  diet. 

Fresh  corn  should  be  used  on  the  table  or  for  canning  as 


21 


early  after  gathering  as  possible.  It  should  be  kept  in  a  cold, 
dry  place  until  used  because  it  contains  fermentable  juices  and 
hence  sours  quickly. 

When  it  is  to  be  used  the  husks  and  all  the  silky  fibers 
should  be  carefully  removed.  The  corn  may  be  cooked  on  the 
cob  or  trimmed  off  with  a  sharp  knife.  If  the  corn  is  old, 
the  kernels  may  be  cut  through  with  a  sharp  knife,  then  the 
pulp  may  be  pressed  out  with  the  back  of  the  knife  and  most 
of  the  hull  left  on  the  cob. 

Corn  on  the  Cob 

After  removing  the  husks  and  silk,  trim  the  cobs  if  they 
have  been  unevenly  developed  or  are  imperfect  in  any  way. 
Put  into  boiling  salted  water  and  after  the  water  has  came  to  a 
boil  continue  the  boiling  from  10  to  20  minutes.  The  corn  is 
done  as  soon  as  the  milk  in  the  kernels  has  thickened.  This 
can  be  tested  by  trying  one  kernel.  If  boiled  for  a  long  time 
the  corn  becomes  hard  and  its  flavor  is  impaired.     Serve  hot. 

Corn  Pudding 

1  doz.  ears  fresh  corn  or  1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  can  corn  ^  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs  2  tablespoons  flour 

2  cups  rich  milk  1  tablespoon  softened  butter 
Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  to  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the 

•eggs,  corn  and  milk.  Cut  and  fold  in  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs 
and  the  butter.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  in  a  moderate  oven  ^ 
hour  or  till  firm.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Stewed   Corn 

Cut  the  fresh  corn  from  the  cob,  scraping  as  much  pulp 
from  the  cob  as  possible.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  a 
little  milk  and  butter,  and  simmer  a  few  minutes  on  top  of  the 
stove  or  in  the  oven. 


22 


Scalloped  Corn 

1  quart  fresh  corn  or  }i  teaspoon  pepper 

1  can  of  corn  3  tablespoons  butter  or 

yz  cup  milk  other  fat 

1%.  teaspoons  salt.  2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs 

After  removing  corn  from  the  cob  mix  with  milk,  add 
seasonings  and  1  tablespoon  butter. 

Melt  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  crumbs  and  line  the  bot- 
tom of  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  one-fourth  of  the  amount. 
Then  add  one-half  the  corn  mixture  and  one-fourth  more  of 
the  crumbs.  Add  remainder  of  the  corn  and  cover  with  but- 
tered crumbs. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  20  to  30  minutes  to  brown 
nicely  on  top.     Serves  6  to  8.    (See  scalloped  dishes). 

COWPEAS 

Cowpeas  should  be  cooked  soon  after  gathering,  in  order 
to  preserve  their  fine  flavor.  Cook  the  green  cowpeas  (in  pod 
or  shelled)  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  Season  and 
serve.  Dried  cowpeas  should  be  soaked  over  night  (7  or  8 
hours),  then  boiled  until  tender.  By  absorbing  water  dried 
cowpeas  increase  in  size  until  each  cup  makes  nearly  2y^ 
cups  of  cooked  peas. 

CUCUMBERS 

Cucumbers  are  valued  for  their  fresh,  cool  crispness,  and 
are  generally  eaten  raw.  They  are  served  with  salt,  pepper^ 
vinegar  and  oil,  or  with  salad  dressing,  alone  or  combined  with 
other  vegetables. 

To  Prepare  Cucumbers 

Wash,  pare,  and  cut  thick  slices  from  ends.  Taste  the 
cucumber  to  be  sure  it  is  not  bitter.  Keep  very  cold  and  slice 
thin  just  before  using.     The  cucumber  will  be  more  crisp  if 


23 


soaked  in  salt  water.     Serve  as  the  salad  accompanying  meat  or 
fish,  and  with  potatoes  or  other  starchy  vegetables. 

EGGPLANT 

Eggplant  has  an  agreeable  flavor  and  adds  to  the  variety 
of  the  diet,  though  its  food  value  is  not  high.  It  should  be  served 
\\ith  meat  and  potatoes  or  with  one  of  the  more  nutritious  vege- 
tables, such  as  beans. 

Scalloped    Eggplant 

1  eggplant  1  cup  bread  crumbs 

3/2  small  onion  3  tablespoons  butter  or 

j4  teaspoon  salt  other  fat 

Pepper 
Cut  the  eggplant  in  halves  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  tender.  Drain  carefully,  remove  the  pulp  from  the  shell 
and  chop  the  pulp  fine.  Chop  the  onion  and  fry  it  in  2  table- 
spoons of  the  fat.  Add  onion  and  seasonings  to  the  eggplant. 
Put  into  a  well-greased  dish  and  cover  with  buttered  crumbs. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  from  15  to  20  minutes  until  well  browned 
on  top. 

Boiled    Eggplant 

Prepare  as  for  scalloped  eggplant,  heat  well  after  combin- 
ing with  the  seasoning,  omit  the  buttered  crumbs  and  serve 
without  baking. 

Fried   Eggplant 

Cut  the  eggplant  in  slices  about  %  inch  thick,  and  pare. 
Sprinkle  the  slices  with  salt  and  pile  them  one  upon  the  other, 
then  put  a  plate  with  a  weight  on  top  of  the  slices.  Let  them 
stand  an  hour,  then  remove  weight  and  plate.  Add  1  table- 
spoonful  of  water,  half  a  tablespoonful  salt,  and  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful  pepper  to  an  egg.  Beat  well.  Dip  the  slices  of 
eggplant  into  the  egg,  then  into  dried  bread  crumbs.  Fry  till 
brown.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper. 


24 


KALE 

Kale  is  used  chiefly  as  greens,  being  boiled  and  seasoned 
much  the  same  as  cabbage. 

Kale  Boiled  with  Pork 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  gently  for  3  or  4  hours. 
Pick  kale  over  carefully,  wash  thoroughly,  drain  well,  and  put 
on  to  boil  with  the  pork.  Boil  rapidly  for  25  to  45  minutes. 
Serve  the  pork  with  the  kale.     Add  more  salt  if  necessary. 

Smoked  bacon  or  ham  may  be  substituted  for  the  pork. 
Kale  may  also  be  cooked  in  water  in  which  corned  beef  was 
boiled. 

Minced   Kale 

Remove  all  the  old  or  tough  leaves.  Wash  the  kale 
thoroughly  and  drain,  then  put  on  to  cook  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  to  which  has  been  added  salt  in  the  proportion  of  1 
tablespoon  to  4  quarts  of  water.  Boil  rapidly,  with  the  cover 
off  the  kettle,  until  the  vegetable  is  tender.  Pour  off  the  water 
and  chop  the  kale  rather  fine;  then  put  back  into  the  kettle  and 
add  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  2  tablespoons  of  meat  broth  or 
water  for  each  pint  of  the  minced  vegetable.  Add  more  salt 
if  required.  Cook  for  10  minutes  and  serve  at  once.  The  time 
required  for  cooking  kale  varies  from  30  to  50  minutes.  If 
young  and  fresh  from  the  garden  it  will  cook  in  30  minutes. 

KOHL-RABI 

Kohl-rabi  should  be  used  when  young  and  tender,  while 
the  leaves  are  not  more  than  2  or  3  inches  in  diameter.  The 
leaves  are  used  as  greens,  but  the  root  is  the  better  part. 

Boiled   Kohl-Rabi 

Wash  and  pare  the  kohl-rabi,  then  cut  in  thin  slices.  Put 
into  salted,  boiling  water  and  boil,  with  the  cover  partially  off 
the   saucepan,   until   the   vegetable   is   tender.    This   will   take 


25 


from  30  to  50  minutes.     Pour  off  the  water  and  season  with 
butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Kohl-rabi  may  be  boiled  with  pork  in  the  same  way  as 
kale.    The  cold  boiled  vegetable  may  be  served  as  a  salad. 

LETTUCE 

Keep  lettuce  in  a  cold  place  until  needed.  Sometime 
before  using  the  lettuce  stand  the  stalks  in  cold  water  to 
freshen.  If  leaves  seem  badly  withered  lay  them  in  cold  water 
for  half  and  hour  or  more  before  using.  Do  not  let  leaves  re- 
main long  in  water  for  they  will  become  darkened. 

Look  the  leaves  over  carefully  and  wash  them  thoroughly 
in  several  changes  of  water.  Use  a  large  quantity  of  water  and 
lift  leaves  from  one  pan  to  the  other  so  that  the  dirt  will  settle 
in  bottom  of  the  pan.   Wash  till  the  last  water  is  clear. 

Dry  the  leaves  by  shaking  and  patting  on  a  towel,  wrap 
them  in  a  dry  towel,  and  place  them  on  ice  until  time  to  serve. 

Lettuce  should  be  served  very  cold  and  dressed  with  salt, 
pepper  and  vinegar,  or  with  French  Dressing. 

MUSTARD   GREENS 

Follow  the  rule  for  cooking  spinach,  but  add  boiling 
water  when  the  greens  are  put  to  cook,  and  drain  well  after 
cooking. 

OKRA 

Okra  is  much  valued  in  the  Southern  States  as  a  vege- 
table and  especially  for  use  in  soups.  Combined  with  chicken, 
okra  forms  the  basis  of  the  popular  gumbo  soup.  It  contains 
some  carbohydrate  and  mineral  matter  but  its  food  value  is  not 
high,  for  it  contains  a  very  large  proportion  of  water. 

Boiled   Okra 

Boil  the  young  pods  of  okra  in  salted  water  until  tender 


26 


(about  20  minutes),  drain  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pep- 
per.   Add  cream  if  desired. 

ONIONS 

The  onion  is  of  value  because  of  its  agreeable  flavor,  its 
laxative  properties,  and  because  it  contains  antiscorbutic  sub- 
stances. It  can  be  used  raw,  alone,  and  in  salads  and  sand- 
wiches, as  well  as  cooked  in  a  variety  of  ways.  As  a  season- 
ing for  other  cooked  dishes  the  onion  is  invaluable. 

Stewed   Onions 

1  quart  onions  2  tablespoons  butter 

%  cup  milk  ^  teaspoon  salt 

White  pepper 

Peel  onions  under  cold  water.  Cook  until  tender  in  boiling 
water  (45  to  60  minutes),  changing  the  water  at  the  end  of  5 
minutes,  and  again  in  10  minutes.  Drain,  add  milk,  butter,  and 
pepper,  cook  15  minutes,  and  just  before  serving  add  salt. 
Serves  6. 

Fried   Onions 

Remove  the  outer  skin  from  the  onions  and  slice  them 
evenly  or  chop  fine.  Fry  in  hot  fat  until  slightly  browned; 
stir  carefully  for  they  will  brown  unevenly. 

Scalloped   Onions 

8  onions  %  teaspoon  white  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  ^  cup  milk 

3  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  bread  crumbs 
Yz  teaspoon  salt                               1  tablespoon  butter 

Boil  the  onions  till  tender,  changing  water  after  10  minutes, 
and  again  after  second  10  minutes.  When  tender  cut  in  slices, 
put  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  pour  over  them  a  white 
sauce  made  of  the  butter,  flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  milk.  Cover 
with  the  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the 
crumbs  are  a  golden  brown,  about  15  minutes.  Serves  6  to  8. 
(See  scalloped  dishes). 


27 


Stuffed   Onions 

6  large  Bermuda  onions  Pepper 

6  tablespoons  cooked  meat  %  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs 

(chopped)  1  tablespoon  butter 

Yz  teaspoon  salt 
Parboil  onions  till  tender,  changing  water  once  or  twice. 
Be  careful  to  keep  them  from  breaking.  Remove  water  and  cut 
out  circular  piece  from  top  of  each.  Scoop  out  inside  to  form  a 
cup.  Chop  one-half  of  the  onion  thus  removed,  add  chopped 
meat,  ^  cup  soft  bread  crumbs,  and  seasonings.  Fill  onion 
cups  with  this  mixture.  Put  in  a  baking  pan  and  cover  bottom 
of  pan  with  boiling  water.  Bake  15  minutes,  basting  once  or 
twice.  Then  cover  tops  with  ^  cup  buttered  crumbs  and  re- 
turn to  oven  to  bro^vn.  Serve  on  circular  pieces  of  toast. 
Serves  6. 

Pecans  or  other  nuts  may  be  substituted   for  the  meat  in 
stuffed  onions. 

PARSNIPS 

Parsnips  are  among  the  most  nutritious  roots  and  can  be 
kept  for  use  throughout  the  winter  and  into  the  late  spring  until 
they  begin  to  sprout.  They  are  rich  in  sugar  and  contain  a  good 
proportion  of  mineral  matter.  They  should  be  used  with  some 
food  which  supplies  protein  and  with  one  of  the  fresh  green 
vegetables. 

Boiled  Parsnips 

Scrub  parsnips  thoroughly,  boil  till  tender,  plunge  into  cold 
water  and  remove  the  skins.  Season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pep- 
per.   Reheat  and  serve. 

Browned   Parsnips 

Slice  the  cooked  parsnips  after  skinning,  browm  in  hot  fat, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  and  pepper. 


28 


Mashed   Parsnips 

Mash  the  cooked  parsnips  after  skinning,  season  with 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper.    Reheat  and  serve. 

Parsnip   Fritters 

Mash  the  cooked  parsnips  after  skinning,  season  with 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper;  shape  in  small,  fiat,  round  cakes, 
roll  in  flour,  and  brown  in  hot  fat.  ^ 

PEAS 

The  mature  pea  is  one  of  the  most  valuable  and  nu- 
tritious vegetables.  To  prepare  fresh  peas,  shell  and  cook 
slowly  with  a  small  amount  of  boiling  water,  leaving  the  kettle 
uncovered  so  that  the  water  will  boil  away  at  the  last.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  add  milk  or  cream  i^  desired,  or 
serve  with  a  white  sauce. 

Dried   Peas,   Boiled 

1  quart  dried  peas  %  lb.  fat  salt  pork 

Pick  dried  peas  over  carefully,  wash,  and  soak  over  night 
in  cold  water.  In  the  morning  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and 
add  salt  pork  cut  in  small  pieces.  Boil  till  peas  are  very  tender 
4  to  7  hours.  Let  water  boil  away  at  the  last.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

Hopping   John 

1  cup  cow  peas  1  cup  rice 

yi  lb.  bacon  ^/^  teaspoon  salt 

1  large  onion  ^8  teaspoon  pepper 

If  dried  peas  are  used  soak  the  peas  until  softened. 
Then  add  boiling  water,  bacon,  and  onion  and  cook  till  tender 
and  dry.  Boil  the  rice  separately,  drain,  and  add  to  the  cow 
peas.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper.    Serve  hot.    Serves  8  to  10. 

GREEN  PEPPERS 

Sweet  green  peppers  are  prepared  for  the  table  by  stuffing 


29 


and  baking,  or  are  used  as  a  foundation  for  salad  or  as  a  season- 
ing in  meat  preparations,  salads,  soups,  and  sauces. 

When  peppers  are  to  be  used  they  should  be  well  washed, 
tops  removed,  and  all  seeds  and  inner  membrane  discarded. 
Eaten  uncooked  they  frequently  cause  acute  attacks  of  indiges- 
tion, and  their  use  in  salads  is  not  recommended. 

Stuffed   Peppers 

6  to  10  green  peppers  ^teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  cooked  veal  or  1  ^  cups  cream 
Chicken,  chopped (^Ib.)       1^  cups  bread  crumbs 

3  tablespoons  butter  ly^  tablespoons  butter 
3  tablespoons  flour  (for  crumbs) 

Onion  juice 
Cut  the  tops  from  the  peppers.  Remove  the  seeds.  Make 
a  w^hite  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour,  onion  juice,  salt,  and  cream. 
Add  the  meat  and  fill  the  peppers  with  the  mixture.  Cover  with 
buttered  crumbs.  Place  peppers  in  a  baking  pan  and  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  with  boiling  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
^  hour.    Serve  with  tops  for  lids.    Serves  6  to  10. 

POTATOES 

If  potatoes  are  kept  i^  a  cold,  dark,  dry  place  they  last  for 
months.  Sprouts  which  come  from  the  eyes  of  the  potatoes 
should  be  picked  off.  Potatoes  should  be  protected  from  freez- 
ing. 

Before  using,  potatoes  should  be  well  scrubbed.  They  are 
always  better  if  cooked  with  their  jackets  on;  if  pared,  the  par- 
ing should  be  very  thin.    Scraping  is  sufficient  for  new  potatoes. 

Potatoes  must  be  cooked  to  soften  the  cellulose  and  to  cook 
the  starch.  They  are  best  boiled,  baked,  and  steamed.  Cold, 
left-over  portions  of  potatoes  may  be  made  into  attractive  and 
palatable  dishes. 

Potatoes  should  be  served  very  hot,  left  uncovered  to  allow 


30 


the  steam  to  escape,  or  covered  with  a  napkin  to  absorb  the 
steam. 

They  may  be  garnished  with  parsley,  or  chopped  pepper,  or 
served  with  drawn  butter  sauce,  white  sauce,  hot  milk,  grav>^,  or 
hollandaise  sauce. 

Potatoes  should  be  accompanied  with  meat,  fish,  eggs, 
cheese,  or  other  meat  substitute  when  served. 

Baked   Potatoes 

Scrub  potatoes  carefully  and  place  in  a  baking  pan. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  45  to  60  minutes.     When  soft,  break 
the  skin  and  let  steam  escape.    Serve  in  an  uncovered  dish. 

Boiled   Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  potatoes.  Cover  with  boiling  water.  Add 
salt.  Boil  slowly  until  tender  (20  to  30  minutes),  drain,  shake 
gently,  and  dry  at  the  back  of  the  stove,  leaving  the  saucepan 
uncovered,  or  lay  a  cloth  folded  over  the  top  to  absorb  the  mois- 
ture. 

If  potatoes  are  to  be  boiled  with  their  jackets  on,  follow 
the  same  directions  for  cooking  omitting  salt.  Before  serving, 
remove  the  skins  carefully  from  the  hot  potatoes. 

Creamed   Potatoes 

2  cups  cold  boiled  potato  1  recipe  medium  white  sauce 

Parsley 
Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  dice  and  cover  with  medium 
white  sauce,  heat,  garnish  with  chopped  parsley.    Serves  6. 

Creamed   Potatoes,   Baked 

3  cups  cold  boiled  potatoes  1  teaspoon  salt 

(finely  diced)  ^  teaspoon  white  pepper 

cup  thin  cream  or  milk  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Put  diced  potatoes  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with 
cream  and  seasonings  and  bake  slowly  until  cream  is  all  ab- 


31 


sorbed  and  potatoes  are  brown  on  top,  about  ^  hour.  Serves 
8  to  10. 

Franconia   Potatoes 

Wash,  scrub,  and  pare  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Parboil 
10  min.,  then  put  in  the  oven  in  dripping  pan  with  meat  or  on 
a  rack  in  a  baking  pan.  Baste  with  fat  every  ten  minutes. 
Allow  about  40  min.  for  baking  the  potatoes. 

French   Fried   Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  small  potatoes.  Cut  into  eighths  lengthwise. 
Soak  1  hour  in  cold  water.  Take  from  water,  dry  between 
towels.  Fry  in  deep  fat  till  golden  brown.  Drain  on  absorbent 
paper.   Sprinkle  with  salt.  (See  directions  for  frying  in  deep  fat) 

Hollandaise  Potatoes 

3  cups  potatoes  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  quarts  water  or  meat  stock      Cayenne 
yz  cup  butter  or  other  fat  2  tablespoons  finely  chopped 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  parsley 

Cut  the  potatoes  in  one-half  inch  cubes,  or  cut  in  balls 
with  a  French  vegetable  cutter.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and 
cook  until  tender.  Drain.  Add  seasonings  to  potatoes  and 
sprinkle  with  parsley,  cook  in  the  hot  fat  a  few  minutes.  Serves 
6  to  8. 

Mashed  Potatoes 

6  potatoes  1  tablespoon  butter  or  other 

Yz  cup  hot  milk  or  cream  fat 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Wash  and  pare  potatoes,  boil  in  salted  water,  drain,  dry, 
and  mash  (with  a  potato  masher)  in  the  saucepan  in  which  they 
were  cooked.  Beat  them  until  very  light  and  creamy,  add  hot 
milk,  butter,  and  salt  and  beat  again,  reheat,  and  serve.  Serves 
6  to  8. 


32 


Potato    Cakes 

Shape  cold  mashed  potatoes  into  small  round  cakes,  dip 
in  flour,  and  brown  in  hot  fat — beef  drippings,  bacon  fat,  or 
other  cooking  fat.  Egg  yolk  added  to  t)ie  mashed  potato  will 
add  to  the  food  value,  enrich  the  flavor,  and  help  to  keep  the 
potato  cakes  in  shape  and  to  brown  better. 

Potatoes   au    Gratin 

6  medium  sized  potatoes  1  Yz  cup  thin  white  sauce 

(3  cups  diced)  1^  cups  bread  crumbs 
^  cup  or  y^  lb  grated  1  tablespoon  butter  or 

cheese  other  fat 

THIN  WHITE  SAUCE 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  1^  cup  milk 

other  fat  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour  Cayenne 

Boil  potatoes,  skin,  and  cut  in  dice.  Put  into  buttered 
baking  dish. 

Prepare  thin  white  sauce,  add  cheese  and  pour  over  po- 
tatoes. Cover  with  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  golden  brown,  about  20  minutes.    Serves  8  to  10. 

Cabbage,  cauliflower,  macaroni,  mushrooms,  noodles, 
onions,  and  spaghetti  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way.  (See 
scalloped  dishes). 

Potatoes   Baked  in   Half   Shell 

6  potatoes  ^  teaspoon  white  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  3  tablespoons  hot  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  egg  whites 

Select  potatoes  of  medium  size,  scrub  and  bake.  Remove 
from  the  oven,  cut  in  half  and  scoop  out  potato  without  break- 
ing the  skin.  Mash,  add  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  milk.  Beat 
well,  then  add  tgg  whites  well-beaten.  Refill  skins  and  bake 
in  a  very  hot  oven  until  slightly  browned,  about  8  min.  Serves  6. 


33 

Potato    Croquettes 

2  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  Cayenne 

(8  potatoes)  Few  drops  onion  juice 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  to  3  egg  yolks 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Dry  potatoes  well  when  boiled.  Rice  the  potatoes  and  add 
the  other  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  Beat  thoroughly. 
Shape  in  balls,  then  in  cylindrical  rolls.  Roll  in  flour,  egg, 
and  crumbs,  mark  in  three  places  on  top  of  each  with  a  knife 
blade  to  represent  a  small  French  loaf.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  until 
golden  brown.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper.  Serve  hot.  Use 
white  of  the  egg  for  dipping.  Serves  6  to  8.  (See  directions 
for  cooking  in  deep  fat) . 

Potato    Croquettes   with   Cheese 

2  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  ^  teaspoon  salt 

yi  cup  grated  cheese  Few  gratings  of  nutmeg 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  tablespoons  milk 

Cayenne  2  egg  yolks 

Mix  the  potatoes,  cheese,  and  butter.  Beat  until  smooth. 
Add  the  seasonings,  milk,  and  eggs.  Shape  as  small  apples, 
roll  in  flour,  egg,  and  crumbs ;  make  a  dent  for  stem  and  blossom 
end  of  apple.  Fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain.  Garnish  blossom  end 
with  a  clove.  Serve  hot.  Serves  6  to  8.  (See  directions  for  cook- 
ing in  deep  fat). 

Potato    Roses    for    Garnishing 

6  large  potatoes  or  3  egg  yolks 

2  cups  cooked  potatoes  j4  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter 

Boil  the  potatoes  till  tender,  drain,  dry  well.  Mash  or 
press  through  a  potato  ricer,  a,dd  butter,  salt,  and  yolks  of  eggs 
slightly  beaten.  Beat  well.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  pastry  bag 
in  which  a  star  tube  has  been  inserted  and  press  out  in  the  de- 
sired shape  on  a  buttered  pan.  Brown  in  the  oven.  Remove 
with  a  spatula  or  broad-bladed  knife,  and  use  as  a  garnish  for 


34 


meat  or  fish.  The  roses  may  be  made  directly  on  a  heavy 
serving  dish  that  can  be  slipped  into  the  oven.  When  used  for 
garnishing  the  fish  plank,  they  can  be  made  directly  on  the 
plank.     Serves  8  to  10.     ' 

Potatoes   O'Brien 

6  to  8  potatoes  2  tablespoons  butter  or 

Yz  can  pimentoes,  chopped  butter  substitute 

34  cup  flour  Yz  cup  cream  or  milk 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  buttered  crumbs 

(1  tablespoon  butter) 
Parboil  potatoes.  Then  cut  in  rather  thin  slices  and  put 
in  a  buttered  baking  dish  in  alternate  layers  with  the  pimen- 
toes. Sprinkle  each  layer  with  flour  and  salt  and  cover  with 
bits  of  butter.  Pour  liquid  from  the  can  of  pimentoes  and 
the  cream  over  the  potatoes,  then  cover  with  buttered  crumbs 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  to  30  min.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Potato   Puff 

3  cups  mashed  potato  2  tablespoons  butter 

Ya'Ya  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs  Ya  teaspoon  white  pepper 

To  mashed  potatoes  add  well-beaten  yolks  of  egg,  milk, 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  The  amount  of  milk  will  vary  ac- 
cording to  the  dryness  of  the  potatoes.  Beat  over  heat  until 
potatoes  are  hot  and  all  is  well-mixed. 

Cut  and  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  until  puffed 
and  brown  in  a  hot  oven  about  20  minutes.    Serves  8  to  10. 

Riced   Potatoes 

After  boiled  pared  potatoes  have  been  well-drained,  put 
them  through  a  potato  ricer  or  vegetable  press.  Serve  in  a  hot 
dish  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 


35 


Saratoga    Chips 

\\'ash  and  pare  potatoes.  Slice  thinly  with  vegetable 
cutter  into  a  bowl  of  cold  water.  Let  stand  2  hours.  Take  from 
water,  dry  between  towels.  Fry  in  deep  fat  till  light  brown. 
Keep  potatoes  in  motion  while  frying.  Drain  on  absorbent 
paper.  Sprinkle  with  salt.  (See  directions  for  frying  in  deep 
fat.) 

Scalloped   Potatoes 

8  potatoes  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  milk  Pepper 
ys  cup  butter  or  oleo 

Pare  potatoes  and  cut  into  thin  slices.  Place  in  a  well- 
greased  baking  dish,  cover  with  scalded  milk,  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper,  and  bake  from  1%  to  2  hours  until  the  milk  is  absorbed. 
Stir  frequently  while  cooking,  browning  the  potatoes  well  over 
the  top  during  the  last  fifteen  minutes.  Serves  6  to  8.  (See 
scalloped  dishes). 

Scalloped   Potatoes   with   White    Sauce 

Prepare  creamed  potatoes  with  a  thin  white  sauce.  Put 
into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  cover  with  a  cup  of  buttered 
crumbs.     Bake  20  to  30  minutes  until  nicely  browned. 

Scalloped   Potatoes    with    Eggs 

2  cups  cold  boiled  potatoes  1  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs 
4  hard  cooked  eggs  (2  tablespoons  butter) 

1^/2  cups  thin  white  sauce 

Slice  the  potatoes  and  eggs,  arrange  in  alternate  layers  in 
a  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  white  sauce.  Sprinkle  the 
buttered  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  20  to  30  minutes  to  brown  the 
crumbs.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Baked    Sweet   Potatoes 

Scrub  potatoes  carefully  and  place  in  a  baking  pan.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  45  minutes  to  1  hour.  When  soft,  break  skin  to 
let  the  steam  escape.     Serve  in  an  uncovered  dish. 


36 


Boiled   Sweet   Potatoes 

When  sweet  potatoes  are  boiled  it  is  best  to  leave  the 
jackets  on.  The  skin  may  be  readily  removed  after  boiling. 
The  cellulose  of  sweet  potatoes  is  easily  softened.  Twenty  min- 
utes boiling  may  be  sufficient. 

Fried   Sweet   Potatoes 

Cut  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  in  quarters  or  slices,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper;  put  in  a  hot,  well-greased  frying  pan, 
brown  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  on  the  other  side. 

Glazed   Sweet   Potatoes 

6  sweet  potatoes  1  tablespoon  butter  or 

Yz  cup  sugar  butter  substitute 

4  tablespoons  boiling  water 

Scrub,  pare  and  boil  potatoes  10  minutes  in  salted  water; 
drain,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise,  and  put  into  a  buttered  baking 
pan.  Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  boil  3  mniutes,  add 
butter.  Baste  potatoes  with  syrup,  put  in  hot  oven  and  cook  15 
minutes,  or  until  browned,  basting  every  5  minutes.  Serves 
8  to  10. 

Mashed   Sweet   Potatoes 

6  sweet  potatoes  4  tablespoons  butter 

6  tablespoons  brown  sugar 
Boil  the  potatoes;  when  soft,  remove  the  skin,  mash,  and 
add  3  tablespoons  brown  sugar  and  3  tablespoons  butter;  pile 
in  a  baking  dish;  sprinkle  3  tablespoons  sugar  over  the  top,  dot 
with  remaining  butter  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a 
brown  crust  is  formed.    Serve  hot.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Sweet   Potato   Croquettes 

2  cups  cooked  sweet  potatoes       1  teaspoon  parsley 
2  tablespoons  butter  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  ^4  cup  milk  or  more 

Cayenne 
Mash  the  potatoes  well,  add  the  butter,  seasonings,  yolks 


37 


of  eggs,  and  enough  milk  so  that  the  mixture  can  be  easily 
moulded  into  balls.  ^lake  smooth  balls  of  even  size,  roll  them 
in  flour,  then  in  the  egg  whites  which  have  been  slightly  beaten 
with  2  tablespoons  of  water,  then  in  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Fry 
in  deep  fat  until  golden  brown.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper. 
Serves  6  to  8.     (See  directions  for  cooking  in  deep  fat.) 

RADISHES 

Wash  radishes,  cut  off  tops.  Serve  cold  and  crisp.  If  de- 
sired pare  or  mark  with  lengthwise  cuts  and  loosen  paring  from 
stem  end  to  middle  so  that  it  curls  back;  or  cut  in  thin  slices, 
without  paring,  and  use  in  salads. 

SALSIFY,  OYSTER  PLANT,  OR  VEGETABLE  OYSTER 

Salsify  is  one  of  the  vegetables  of  value  throughout  the 
winter.  Its  food  value  is  not  high,  but  it  contains  some  pro- 
tein, carbohydrate,  and  mineral  matter.  Because  of  its  delicate 
flavor  it  makes  a  pleasing  addition  to  the  diet.  It  can  be  used 
with  meats  and  starchy  vegetables. 

Boiled  Salsify 

Wash,  scrub,  and  scrape  the  oyster  plant,  putting  it  directly 
into  cold  water  to  which  a  little  vinegar  has  been  added  to  pre- 
vent turning  dark.  Cut  in  small  pieces,  cook  in  boiling,  salted 
water  until  tender  (45  to  60  minutes).  Drain.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 

Salsify   Fritters 

Mash  the  boiled  salsify,  season  with  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper.  Shape  in  small  flat  cakes,  roll  in  flour  and  brown  in 
hot  fat. 

Creamed   Salsify 

Prepare  boiled  salsify,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  add  to  white 
sauce. 


38 

Spinach 

^  peck  spinach  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  }i  teaspoon  pepper 

other  fat 

Pick  leaves  from  the  stems  and  wash  carefully  to  remove  the 
sand.  Cook  uncovered  without  water  until  tender  (about  30 
minutes)  stirring  frequently  at  first,  then  chop  fine  or  press 
through  a  colander;  reheat  with  butter  and  seasonings  or  add 
one  recipe  brown  sauce.  Serve  garnished  with  2  hard-cooked 
eggs  if  desired.  Old  spinach  should  be  cooked  in  boiling  water 
45  minutes.     Serves  6  to  8. 

SQUASH 

Summer  squash  should  be  used  while  fresh.  Hubbard  or 
winter  squash  is  good  through  the  winter  months. 

Summer  squash,  cushaw  or  crookneck  squash,  and  cym- 
lings,  should  be  washed,  broken  into  pieces  with  a  knife,  and 
pared.  Winter  squash  must  be  broken  into  pieces  with  a  hatchet, 
and  the  shreds  and  seeds  removed  from  the  center. 

Baked  Squash 

Wipe  the  outside  shell  of  the  squash,  cut  it  in  pieces  for 
serving,  remove  seeds  and  stringy  portion,  place  in  a  dripping 
pan,  and  bake  in  a  slow^  oven  until  tender,  about  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.    Serve  at  once. 

Steamed  Squash 

Prepare  squash  as  for  baking,  put  in  steamer  over  boiling 
water,  and  cook  until  soft  about  30  minutes.  Winter  squash  may 
require  40  minutes.  Then  scrape  squash  from  shell,  mash,  and 
season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  If  very  watery  it  may  be 
necessary  to  press  out  part  of  the  juice  by  squeezing  the  pieces  of 
squash  between  the  colander  and  a  plate. 


39 


SWISS  CHARD 

The  green,  tender  leaves  of  Swiss  chard  are  cooked  as 
spinach  is  cooked.  When  the  leaves  are  full  grown  the  midribs 
may  be  cooked  and  served  with  white  sauce. 

TOMATOES 

Ripe  tomatoes  must  be  kept  in  a  cold,  dry  place  and  very 
carefully  handled  or  they  will  spoil  easily.  They  are  best  if 
eaten  soon  after  being  gathered.  If  tomatoes  are  gathered  before 
they  are  quite  ripe,  they  can  be  kept  much  longer.  They  should 
be  handled  carefully,  kept  perfectly  dry,  and  placed  in  the  sun 
to  ripen  just  before  being  used.  Because  of  their  juicy,  acid 
nature,  tomatoes  should  be  served  with  meat,  fish  or  dried  beans, 
and  with  a  starchy  vegetable  such  as  potatoes. 

Before  serving,  tomatoes  should  be  washed  carefully.  They 
are  nicest  if  the  skins  are  removed.  If  tomatoes  are  well  ripened 
the  skin  may  be  easily  removed  with  the  aid  of  a  sharp  paring 
knife.  If  the  skins  do  not  come  off  readily  the  tomatoes  may 
be  plunged  for  an  instant  in  scalding  hot  water.  All  traces  of 
core  should  be  removed. 

If  tomatoes  are  to  be  served  raw,  they  should  be  washed, 
skinned  (preferably  without  scalding),  carefully  freed  from  the 
core,  and  chilled.  They  are  attractive  served  whole,  cut  in 
quarters,  or  sliced.  They  are  palatable  served  with  salt;  with 
salt  and  vinegar;  with  salt,  vinegar,  and  salad  oil;  with  cream 
and  sugar;  or  with  salad  dressing.  A  few  slices  of  cucumber 
may  be  served  with  the  sliced  tomatoes.  The  whole  tomato  may 
be  slightly  hollowed  out  and  filled  with  salad  dressing  or  with 
some  salad  preparation. 

Fried   Tomatoes 

6  ripe  tomatoes  2  cups  dried  bread  crumbs 

2  eggs  Fat  for  frying 

Select  ripe  tomatoes  of  uniform  size.     Wash  thoroughly, 


40 


cut  in  half-inch  slices.  Dip  in  dried  crumbs,  then  in  eggs, 
then  in  crumbs  again.  (Add  2  tablespoons  water  or  tomato 
juice  to  the  eggs  and  beat  slightly.)  Fry  tomatoes  until 
brown  and  tender.     Serve  hot  with  brown  sauce.     Serves  6  to  8. 

BROWN    SAUCE    TO    SERVE    WITH   TRIED    TOMATOES 

2  tablespoons  fat  1  cup  hot  stock  or  water 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

^  teaspoon  salt  or  other  meat  sauce 

Pepper 

Melt  fat,  add  fl.our  and  seasonings,  and  cook  until  brown. 
Add  hot  stock  slowly.  When  mixture  thickens  remove  from  fire 
and  add  the  Worcestershire  sauce.     Serve  hot.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

1  can  or  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

1  quart  tomatoes,  sliced  2  tablespoons  butter  or 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  other  fat 
1  tablespoon  salt 

Melt  the  fat  and  add  crumbs  and  seasonings. 

Line  the  bottom  of  a  well-greased  baking  dish  with  one- 
fourth  the  crumbs,  then  add  half  the  tomatoes.  Add  another 
fourth  of  the  crumbs  and  remainder  of  tomatoes.  Cover  with  the 
remainder  of  the  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  1  hour. 
Cover  the  first  30  minutes.  Serves  6  or  8.  (See  scalloped 
dishes). 

Stewed  Tomatoes 

1  pint  tomatoes  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  onion  1  tablespoon  butter,  or 

y^  teaspoon  pepper  other  fat 

Pour  boiling  water  over  tomatoes,  drain  and  peel,  cut  into 
small  pieces,  add  an  onion  and  cook  over  moderate  heat.  A  long, 
slow  cooking  improves  the  flavor.  Just  before  removing  from  the 
stove  add  butter  and  seasoning  (salt  and  pepper).  Bread  or 
cracker  crumbs  may  be  used  for  thickening,  and  sugar  added  if 
desired.    Serves  6. 


41 


Stuffed  Tomatoes 


6  tomatoes  34  teaspoon  pepper 

1  y2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  1  tablespoon  chopped 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  parsley 

other  fat  3^  teaspoon  onion  juice 

3/2  teaspoon  salt 

Wipe  tomatoes  and  remove  a  thin  slice  from  stem  end. 
Take  from  the  center  the  seeds  and  pulp  and  sprinkle  the  cavity 
with  salt.  Melt  the  fat,  add  to  bread  crumbs,  then  add  tomato 
pulp,  parsley,  onion  juice,  and  seasonings.  Fill  the  tomatoes 
with  the  mixture,  place  them  in  a  shallow  dish  and  bake  15 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven.     Serves  6. 

TURNIPS 

The  turnip  is  a  winter  vegetable  valuable  in  furnishing 
variety  to  the  table.  It  has  a  heavy  outer  covering,  hence  must 
be  pared  with  a  thick  paring. 

Creamed  Turnips 

Scrub  turnips.  Pare  with  a  deep  paring.  Boil  till  tender. 
Cut  in  dice  and  cover  with  a  medium  white  sauce. 

Mashed   Turnips 

6  turnips  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter 
Wash  and  pare  turnips,  boil,  drain,  dry  thoroughly,  and 
mash   (with  a  potato  masher)   in  the  saucepan  in  which  they 
were    cooked.     Beat   them    until    very    light,    add    butter,    and 
salt  and  beat  again,  reheat  and  serve.     Serves  6  to  8. 

MUSHROOMS 

Fresh  mushrooms  may  be  in  season  from  the  spring 
throughout  the  summer,  but  are  most  abundant  in  August.  Those 
grown  in  the  open  air  in  meadows  and  shaded  glens  have  the 
best  flavor.     They  should  not  be  used  if  they  are  over-ripe,  if 


42 


mey  have  been  attacked  by  slugs,  if  they  have  a  disagreeable 
smell  and  taste,  if  they  have  a  tough  consistency,  if  they  have 
been  grown  in  dirty  places,  or  if  they  soften  easily.  They  are 
gathered  and  packed  loosely  in  boxes  or  baskets  for  market. 
They  are  sometimes  dried  for  storing  but  more  frequently  they 
are  preserved  by  canning.  They  should  always  be  perfectly 
fresh  for  use.  The  price  of  mushrooms  varies  greatly  with  the 
season  and  variety. 

Both  the  stem  and  the  expanded  top  of  the  mushroom 
are  used  for  food,  but  the  stem  is  likely  to  be  tough  and  is  often 
only  used  for  seasoning.  Mushrooms  are  never  eaten  raw. 
They  are  cooked  to  soften  them  and  to  develop  flavor.  Before 
cooking  they  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  to  draw  out  the 
insects,  then  washed  in  cold  water,  the  earthy  stem  cut  off,  and 
the  skin  peeled  from  the  top  of  the  cap.  They  may  be  broiled, 
sauted,  baked,  and  boiled.  They  are  used  alone  or  as  a  season- 
ing for  sauces,  soups,  and  other  dishes. 

The  best  flavor  is  developed  if  the  mushrooms  are  first 
cooked  in  butter.  The  baked  mushrooms  are  especially  nice  if 
covered  with  a  glass  bell  so  that  none  of  the  steam  and  flavors 
are  lost. 

Mushrooms  are  usually  served  with  a  rich  sauce  and  are 
generally  accompanied  by  toast  or  some  other  carbohydrate 
food. 

Mushrooms  do  not  have  a  high  food  value  but  are  prized 
for  their  flavor. 

To  Prepare  Fresh  Mushrooms  for  Cooking 

Scrape  the  stems,  cut  off  the  ends.  Peel  the  caps  of  the 
mushrooms.  Wash  them  in  salted  water  to  remove  the  insects 
from  the  gills.    Soak  a  few  minutes  in  fresh  cold  water. 

To  Prepare  Canned  Mushrooms 

Pour  the  liquid  from  the  mushrooms  and  put  them  in  boil- 
ing water.    Boil  3  minutes  and  drain. 


43 

Stewed  Mushrooms 

Yz  pound  mushrooms  34  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter  Pepper 

1  tablespoon  flour  5^  cup  water  or  stock 

Cook  mushrooms  in  hot  butter  2  minutes,  sprinkle  with  the 
salt,  pepper,  and  flour,  and  add  Yz  cup  hot  water  or  stock.  Cook 
slowly  5  minutes.   Serve  on  toast.    Serves  6. 

Creamed  Mushrooms 

^  pound  mushrooms  Pepper 

2  tablespoons  flour  %  cup  cream 

3  tablespoons  butter  Nutmeg  grating 
34  teaspoon  salt 

Prepare  as  stewed  mushrooms.     Serve  on  toast.     Serves  6. 


SAUCES  FOR  VEGETABLES  AND  MEATS 

'^ Binding''  or  "Roux"  is  the  flour  and  fat  cooked  together 
for  the  thickening  of  a  sauce.  For  white  sauce  and  other 
sauces  light  in  color  the  roux  is  not  browned.  For  brown  sauce, 
tomato  sauce,  and  gravies  brown  roux  is  prepared.  In  "Brown 
Roux-'  the  fat  and  flour  are  both  browned  in  cooking,  hence  a 
larger-  per  cent  of  flour  is  required  than  in  white  sauce. 
"Wetting"  is  the  liquid  used  in  the  sauce.  "Stock"  is  the  term 
applied  to  water  in  which  vegetables,  meat,  or  fish  have  cooked. 
A  few  recipes  for  standard  sauces  are  given.  The  recipe  for 
Medium  White  Sauce  can  be  regarded  as  a  basis  for  developing 
other  sauces.  To  increase  the  variety  of  sauces  prepared,  the 
fat,  thickening,  liquid,  and  seasonings  may  all  be  varied  as 
indicated  in  the  table  below. 

Table  Showing  Variations  Possible  in  the  Ingredients  in  Sauces 


FAT                               THICKENING 

LIQUIDS 

Butter                         Flour 

Milk 

Beef  drippings           Corn  starch 

Water 

Chicken  fat                 Arrow  root 

Milk  and  water 

Lard                           Rice 

Cream 

Olive  oil                      Bread  crumbs 

Stock 

Bacon  fat                   Cracker  crumbs 

Vegetable 

Cream                        Eggs 

Meat 

Commercial  fats 

Fish 

Tomato  juice 

SEASONINGS 

Salt 

Pickles 

Pepper 

Olives 

Mustard 

Capers 

Sweet  herbs 

Green  peppers 

Acids 

Onion 

Lemon 

Horse-radish 

Vinegar 

Worcestershire 

Parsley 

sauce 

Mint 

* 

44 

45 


Medium  White  Sauce  to  be  used  for  Creamed  Dishes 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  ^  teaspoon  salt 

butter  substitute  %  teaspoon  white  pepper 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  milk  (heated) 

Sufficient  for  1  pint  of  vegetables. 

First  Method  of  Preparing  Sauce 

Heat  the  fat.  When  it  bubbles  add  flour  and  seasonings, 
add  hot  milk  gradually,  stirring  constantly,  and  allowing  the 
mixture  to  thicken  and  bubble  each  time  before  adding  another 
portion  of  milk.  Boil  up  once  and  sauce  is  ready  to  serve,  or 
place  over  hot  water  and  cook  slowly  till  thickened. 

Second  Method  of  Preparing  Sauce 

Scald  milk;  cream  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  smooth, 
then  add  to  hot  milk,  cook  ^  hour  in  double  boiler,  stirring 
occasionally;  then  add  seasoning.     Serve. 

Third  Method  of   Preparing   Sauce 

Scald  one-half  the  milk;  add  remaining  milk  slowly  to 
flour,  stir  this  into  hot  milk  and  cook  ^  hour  in  double  boiler, 
stirring  occasionally;  then  add  seasoning  and  butter  and  stir 
until  butter  is  melted.     Serve. 

Thin   White   Sauce  to   be   used   for   Scalloped  Dishes   or  Dishes 

au  gratin 

1  y^  tablespoons  butter  or  White  pepper 

butter  substitute  j4  cup  milk  (heated) 

1^  tablespoons  flour  y^  cup  stock  (heated) 

%  teaspoon  salt 

Heat  the  butter,  add  flour  and  seasonings;  add  hot  milk 
and  stock  gradually,  stirring  constantly  and  allowing  the  mix- 
ture to  thicken  and  bubble  each  time  before  adding  another 
portion  of  liquid,  allow  to  boil  up  once  and  the  sauce  is  ready 
±0  serve.     Sufficient  for  1  pint  of  vegetables 


46 


Thick  White  Sauce 

(To  be  used  for  binding  croquette  mixtures) 
2  tablespoons  butter  or  y^  teaspoon  white  pepper 

butter  substitute  1  cup  milk,  cream,  or 

4  tablespoons  flour  white  stock  (heated) 

j/2  teaspoon  salt 
Heat  butter,  add  flour  and  seasoning;  add  hot  milk  or 
stock  gradually,  stirring  constantly,  and  allow  mixture  to  thicken 
and  bubble  each  time  before  adding  another  portion  of  liquid. 
Allow  to  boil  up  once  and  sauce  is  ready  to  serve.  Sufficient  for 
6  or  8  croquettes. 

Brown  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  fat  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

3  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  brown  stock  or  water 
^  teaspoon  salt 

Melt  the  fat,  add  the  flour  and  seasonings,  and  stir  until 
the  flour  begins  to  brown,  then  add  the  brown  stock  or  water.  If 
water  is  used  a  bouillon  cube  may  be  added  to  give  the  desired 
meat  flavor.  One  tablespoon  chopped  onion  browned  in  the  fat 
will  make  a  more  savory  sauce.  It  will  be  necessary  to  strain 
the  sauce  if  the  onion  has  been  used.     Sufficient  to  serve  8. 

Caper  Sauce  for  Boiled  Mutton 

y3  cup  butter  or  butter  }4  teaspoon  pepper 

substitute  1  pint  water  in  which  the 

^  cup  flour  mutton  was  cooked 

%  teaspoon  salt 
Prepare  as  white  sauce,  and  add  ^  or    J    cup  of  capers. 
Serves  12  to  16. 


Drawn   Butter   for   Vegetables 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  boiling  water  or 

1  tablespoon  flour  vegetable  stock 

yo  teaspoon  salt 
Prepare  as  white  sauce.     Serve  with  freshly  cooked  vege- 
tables. 


47 


Drawn   Butter   Sauce   for   Fish 


ys  or  y^  cup  butter  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

%  cup  flour  or  vinegar 

y2  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  chopped    pars- 

Cayenne  ley 

1  pint  boiling  water  2  hard  cooked  eggs 

Heat  butter,  add  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  then  add  boiling 
water  slowly.  Add  lemon  juice  and  parsley.  Just  before  serving 
add  the  hard  cooked  eggs,  the  white  of  which  have  been  sliced, 
and  the  yolks  run  through  a  sieve. 

If  a  larger  amount  of  butter  is  used,  reserve  one-half  of  it, 
and  stir  in  just  before  serving.    Serves  12  to  16. 

Hollandaise   Sauce 

^  cup  butter  ^teaspoon  salt 

2  egg  yolks  Cayenne 

1  ^  tablespoon  lemon  juice  ^cup  boiling  water 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  yolks  one  at  a  time,  and  beat 
well;  then  add  the  lemon  juice,  salt,  and  pepper.  A  short  time 
before  serving  add  the  boiling  water.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  and 
stir  until  the  mixture  is  of  the  consistency  of  custard.  Serve  im- 
mediately.   Serves  10  to  12. 

Mint  Sauce  for  Lamb 

1  cup  fresh  mint  (chopped)  ^  cup  vinegar 

J  cup  sugar 
Use  only  the  leaves  and  tender  tips  of  the  mint.    Dissolve 
the  sugar  in  the  vinegar,  boil  till  a  thick  syrup  and  add  the  mint. 
Let  sauce  stand  1  hour  in  a  warm  place.     Serves  10  to  12. 

Mustard   for  Ham  and  Other  Meat 

4  tablespoons  mustard  2  tablespoons  weak  vinegar 

Yz  teaspoon  sugar  y^  teaspoon  salad  oil 

Add  the  vinegar  gradually  to  the  mustard  and  sugar  to 
make  a  smooth  paste,  then  add  the  salad  oil.    Serves  6  or  8. 


48 


Parsley  Butter 

%.  cup  butter  ^  tablespoon  finely  chopped 

^  teaspoon  salt  parsley 

y%  teaspoon  pepper  ^  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Cream  the  butter,  add  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  and  the  lemon 
juice  very  slowly.  Shape  into  balls  and  chill  before  serving  or 
spread  onto  broiled  beef  or  fish  just  before  serving.  Serves  & 
to  10. 

Tartare    Sauce 

1  cup  mayonnaise  dressing  4  olives,  chopped  fine 

1  tablespoon  chopped  pickle         1  tablespoon  capers 
Add  the  olives,  capers,  and  pickles  to  the  dressing,  and 

beat  slowly.    If  desired,  1  tablespoon  tarragon  vinegar  may  be 

added.   Serves  16  to  20. 

Tomato    Sauce 

^2  can  or  2  tablespoons  chopped 

1  pint  of  tomatoes  onion 

1  ^  cup  water  2  tablespons  butter  or 

2  cloves  other  fat 
2  allspice  berries                            ^4  cup  flour 

2  peppercorns  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  bay  leaf  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

2  sprays  parsley 

Put  the  tomatoes,  water,  spices,  parsley,  and  herbs  into  an 
agate  saucepan,  and  cook  until  the  tomatoes  are  soft.  Fry  the 
onion  in  the  butter  until  light  brown,  add  the  flour  and 
seasonings,  then  the  tomatoes  gradually.  Cook  slowly  until  the 
sauce  thickens,  then  strain;  if  too  thick,  add  more  water.  Serves. 
12  to  16. 

Tomato    Puree 

I  can  tomatoes  ^  bay  leaf 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  1  stalk  celery 

other  fat  4  sprigs  parsley 

2  carrots,  sliced  2  cloves 

2  onions,  sliced  yi  teaspoon  pepper 

1  tablespoon  salt 


49 


Cook  all  together,  uncovered,  until  thick  and  rather  dark 
in  color,  about  1  hour.  Strain,  reheat,  and  serve  as  a  sauce  with 
meats,  fish,  or  omelet.     Serves  12  to  16. 


FRUITS 

The  skins  of  fruit  carry  dirt  and  germs,  therefore  all  fruits 
should  be  washed  before  using.  Prepare  fresh  fruit  just  before 
cooking  to  preserve  flavor  and  prevent  discoloration.  Use  only 
silver  knives  when  preparing  fruit  and  silver  or  wooden  spoons 
for  stirring. 

Cook  fruit  in  porcelain-lined  or  granite- ware  kettles,  never 
in  tin.  Cover  with  a  china  plate  or  granite-ware  cover.  Use 
a  small  quantity  of  water  in  stewing  fruit.  Boiling  sugar  with 
an  acid  reduces  its  sweetness,  hence  when  fruits  are  cooked  sugar 
should  not  be  added  until  cooking  is  nearly  done. 

Dried  fruits  need  special  preparation.  Prunes,  dried  apri- 
cots, and  dried  peaches  should  be  washed  in  several  changes  of 
water;  dates  and  figs  should  be  scalded;  raisins  and  currants 
should  be  washed  and  carefully  looked  over;  the  skin  of  dried 
peaches  should  be  removed  after  soaking.  After  washing  dried 
fruits,  soak  for  several  hours  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover, 
then  cook  slowly  in  the  same  water  till  tender. 

Baked    Apples 

Wipe  and  core  sour  apples,  score  skin  with  a  knife,  place 
apples  in  an  agate  baking  dish  and  fill  each  center  with  sugar 
and  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Cover  bottom  of  dish  with  water 
J4  inch  deep,  and  bake  until  apples  are  soft  (20  to  45  minutes), 
basting  them  every  ten  minutes.  Place  them  in  a  serving  dish 
and  pour  juice  over  them.  Serve  hot,  or  chill  and  serve  cold 
with  whipped  cream. 

Steamed    Apples 

Wipe,  core,  and  pare  sour  apples.  Put  them  on  a  plate  in 
a  steamer  and  cook  slowly  until  the  apples  are  tender.  Strain 
juice  and  make  into  syrup  by  adding  ^  cup  sugar  to  each  ^ 
cup  juice,  boiling  5  minutes,  and  then  adding  1  teaspoon  lemon 
juice.    Pour  syrup  over  the  apples. 

50 


51 


Apple   Sauce 

10  apples  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice, 

^  cup  water  or 

^  cup  sugar  Ys  teaspoon  nutmeg  or 

cinnamon 
Wipe,  quarter,  core,  and  pare  sour  apples;  add  the  water 
and  cook  until  apples  begin  to  soften;  add  the  sugar  and  flavor- 
ing and  cook  until  apples  are  very  soft.  If  apples  do  not  hold 
their  shape  but  break  up  unevenly  it  may  be  desirable  to  press 
them  through  a  strainer  and  beat  them  well  to  make  a  smooth 
sauce.     Serves  8  to  10. 

Stewed   Apples 

10  apples  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  or 

}i  cup  water  3^  teaspoon  nutmeg  or  cinna- 

j4  cup  sugar  mon 

Cook  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  boils. 

Wash,  pare,  and  cut  apples  into  quarters,  core,  and  slice 

quarters  lengthwise  into  }i  inch  slices;  put  apple  slices  into 

boiling  syrup  and  cook  slowly  until  tender.    Remove  slices  of 

apple.    Add  lemon  juice  to  syrup,  boil  a  few  minutes  and  serve 

over  apples.    Sprinkle  with  nutmeg  if  desired.    Serves  10  to  12. 

Stewed  Apricots 

Follow  the  recipe  for  stewed  prunes. 
Baked   Bananas 

6  bananas  ^  cup  sugar 

1  lemon  ^  cup  water 

Peel  the  bananas,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise.  Put  in  an 
earthen  or  granite  baking  pan.  Sprinkle  with  lemon  juice  and 
sugar.  Pour  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  20  to  30  minutes,  basting  occasionally.    Serves  6  to  8. 


52 


Cranberry   Jelly 

4  cups  cranberries  1  cup  sugar 

1  or  2  cups  water 
Pick  over  and  wash  the  cranberries.  Cook  them  in  water 
until  they  burst  from  their  skins,  and  press  through  a  strainer. 
Add  sugar  to  juice  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then, 
without  stirring,  boil  8  to  10  minutes,  or  until  it  jellies  when 
dropped  on  a  cold  saucer,  and  pour  into  molds  or  glasses  which 
have  been  wet  with  cold  water,  and  set  away  to  cool.     Serves  6. 

Cranberry  Sauce 

Use  recipe  for  Cranberry  Jelly,  but  do  not  strain  berries. 
When  they  are  tender,  add  sugar  and  cook  carefully  so  that  they 
will  not  be  broken  up. 

Stewed   Prunes 

y2  lb.  prunes  ^  cup  sugar 

1  quart  cold  water  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Wash  prunes,  soak  them  in  cold  water  for  several  hours, 
then  cook  slowly  until  tender  in  the  water  in  which  they  were 
soaked;  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice  and  cook  5  minutes  longer. 
Sugar  may  be  omitted.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Baked   Rhubarb 

3  cups  rhubarb  1  ^  cups  sugar 

Prepare  as  stewed  rhubarb,  put  into  an  earthen  baking  dish. 
Cover  and  bake  slowly  until  very  tender  and  deep  red  in  color. 
Serves  6. 

Rhubarb    Sauce 

3  cups  rhubarb  Ij^  cup  sugar 

y^  cup  water 
Remove  leaves  from  rhubarb,  wash  stalk,  peel  the  flat  side 
of  the  stalk,  and  cut  in  J/^  inch  lengths. 

Put  rhubarb  in  sauce  pan,  add  water  and  stew  slowly  until 
tender,  stirring  often  at  first.  Add  sugar  and  cook  until  sugar 
is  dissolved.     Serves  6. 


53 


Steamed  Rhubarb 

3  cups  rhubarb  1^2  cup  sugar 

Prepare  rhubarb  as  for  sauce,  put  in  top  of  double  l^oiler, 
add  sugar  and  cook  until  tender.    Serves  6. 

Fruit   Cocktail 

1  small  can  pineapple  1  lemon 

2  grapefruit  %  cup  sugar 

3  oranges  Cherries  to  garnish 
Remove  the  sections  of  the  grape  fruit  and  oranges  from  the 

membrane  carefully  in  large  pieces.  Cut  the  pineapple  in  ^ 
inch  dice.  Combine  the  fruits.  Sprinkle  with  lemon  juice  and 
powdered  sugar.  Sugar  should  be  used  sparingly  for  the  cock- 
tail should  be  slightly  acid.  Chill  thoroughly.  Arrange  in 
cocktail  glasses  or  sherbet  cups,  putting  a  small  amount  of 
cherry  juice  in  each  cup.  Garnish  each  serving  with  a  red 
cherry  or  a  fresh  strawberry  or  raspberry.  Other  combinations 
of  fruits  can  be  used. 

Serve  as  an  appetizer  at  the  beginning  of  a  meal.  Serves 
6  to  8. 

Note — The  juices  of  the  fruit  can  be  saved  and  utilized 
in  flavoring  fruit  drinks  or  in  making  fruit  ices  or  jellies. 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 

The  object  of  food  preservation  is  to  make  fruits  and  vege- 
tables of  value  for  a  longer  time  than  through  their  ripening 
season.  After  ripening,  fermentation  and  bacteriological  changes, 
take  place  so  rapidly  that  the  season  for  the  usefulness  of  most 
fruits  and  of  many  vegetables  is  very  limited  unless  some  means 
is  employed  for  their  preservation. 

Chilling,  canning,  drying,  and  pickling  are  the  methods  of 
preservation  most  commonly  employed. 

Chilling  involves  the  keeping  of  foods  at  a  very  low  tem- 
perature, a  method  which  is  only  temporary  but  valuable  and 
necessary  both  in  the  home  and  in  the  market.  In  cold,  dry 
climates,  chilling  makes  possible  the  keeping  of  many  vegetables 
and  some  fruits  throughout  the  winter  without  applying  further 
means  of  preservation. 

Drying  is  accomplished  by  exposure  to  the  sun  or  to  arti- 
ficial heat.  Drying  is  one  of  the  oldest  methods  of  food  preser- 
vation and  is  valuable  for  many  reasons.  The  dried  food  is 
light,  compact,  and  easily  handled ;  however,  foods  lose  much  in. 
freshness  and  flavor  when  dried  and  become  dark  in  appearance 
and  small  in  size.  Drying  is  unpopular  because  of  the  long, 
soaking  required  before  foods  can  be  used,  and  because  the  com-., 
mercially  dried  foods  have  often  been  treated  with  sulphur  in 
order  to  preserve  their  color.  Improved  methods  of  commercial 
drying  and  dehydrating  are  today  increasing  the  popularity  of 
dried  foods  and  offer  a  helpful  solution  to  the  ever-increasing; 
problem  of  the  high  cost  of  living. 

Canning  is  the  method  of  preservation  most  generally  em- 
ployed for  both  fruits  and  vegetables.  Canning  of  meat  is  also 
sometimes  desirable  on  the  farm  when  there  are  not  means  of 
keeping  meat  in  hot  weather,  or  when  the  feeding  of  poultry 
through  the  long  winter  season  is  not  feasible.     The  thrifty 

54 


55 


housekeeper  should  be  familiar  with  the  most  effective  methods 
of  canning  in  order  to  provide  a  varied  diet  for  her  family  dur- 
ing the  long  season  when  fresh  foods  are  not  available. 

Principles    of    Canning 

Canning  involves  the  destruction  of  all  germs  and  spores 
by  boiling  or  steaming  the  product,  and  the  exclusion  of  all 
germs  from  the  jar  by  completely  sealing  it.  The  destruction  of 
germs  in  the  food,  on  the  jar  and  on  everything  that  comes  in 
contact  with  the  food  must  be  complete  in  order  to  secure  success. 
Air-tight  sealing  of  jars  can  be  effected  by  using  good  tops  and 
good,  new,  pliable  rubbers,  fitting  them  tightly.  The  best  suc- 
cess in  canning  is  usually  obtained  if  small  quantities  of  food 
are  handled  at  a  time.  Small  jars  are  preferable  if  the  family 
is  not  large. 

Methods  of  Canning 

There  are  two  methods  of  canning,  known  as  the  open-ket- 
tle method  and  the  can-cooked,  or  cold-pack,  method.  The 
open-kettle  method  is  more  simple,  but  the  can-cooked  or  cold- 
pack  method  can  be  used  effectively  with  a  larger  number  of 
foods. 

Open-Kettle    Method    of     Canning 

In  the  open-kettle  method  the  foods  are  brought  to  the 
boiling  point  in  a  kettle,  boiled  until  thoroughly  sterilized  and 
tender,  sweetened  or  seasoned  as  necessary,  and  then  poured 
into  sterilized  jars,  which  must  be  sealed  at  once.  This  method 
requires  but  little  time  and  a  simple  equipment  will  serve.  It 
can  be  used  to  advantage  with  most  fruits  because  it  gives 
opportunity  for  evaporation  of  the  water  from  watery  fruits,  for 
long  boiling  of  such  hard  fruits  as  pears  and  quinces,  and  for 
the  preparaton  of  jams,  marmalades,  and  preserves.  Because  of 
the  acids  contained  in  fruits,  they  keep  well  when  canned  by  this 
method.  For  this  reason  tomatoes  can  also  be  canned  by  the  open- 


56 


kettle  method,  but  other  vegetables  which  do  not  contain  so 
much  acid  will  not  keep. 

Cold-Pack  Method  of  Canning 

In  the  can-cooked,  or  cold-pack,  method  the  food  is  scalded 
or  blanched  in  boiling  water  or  steam,  dipped  into  cold  water, 
packed  direct^  into  the  jars,  and  covered  with  boiling  water,  or 
with  boiling  s}Tup  of  the  desired  density,  or  with  boiling  fruit 
juice,  usually  sweetened.  The  covers  are  adjusted  and  the  jars 
are  placed  on  a  rack  in  a  large  kettle  and  entirely  surrounded 
by  water,  which  should  extend  an  inch  over  the  top.  The  water 
should  be  quickly  brought  to  the  boiling  point  and  boiled  as  long 
as  is  necessary  to  sterilize  and  cook  the  food  which  is  contained 
in  the  jars.  The  can-cooked,  or  cold-pack,  method  can  be  used 
for  fruits,  vegetables,  and  meats.  It  offers  little  opportunity  for 
spoilage  because  the  jar  and  its  contents  are  both  thoroughly 
sterilized  and  the  product  canned  retains  its  shape,  color,  and 
flavor  well.  The  can-cooked,  or  cold-pack,  method  involves  more 
labor  and  time  on  the  part  of  the  housewife  and  requires  more 
fuel,  but  the  excellent  results  that  can  be  obtained  when  canning 
a  considerable  quantity  of  food  are  worth  the  additional  labor 
and  expense  involved. 

For  those  vegetables  which  contain  spores  that  are  especially 
resistant  to  the  heat,  an  intermittent  process  of  sterilization  is 
considered  necessary  in  some  parts  of  the  country.  When  this 
method  is  used  the  vegetable  is  cooked  in  the  can  one  hour  or 
longer  in  the  water  bath  on  three  or  four  successive  days.  At  the 
end  of  each  period  of  sterilization  the  jars  are  removed  from 
the  water  bath. 

Processes  in  the  Cold-Pack  Method 

The  three  main  processes  necessary  to  success  in  the  cold- 
pack  method  are  blanching,  dipping,  and  the  sterilization,  or 
processing,  of  the  food  which  is  being  canned. 


57 


Blanching — Blanching  consists  in  dipping  the  food  into 
boiling  water  or  live  steam  and  leaving  it  immersed  for  from  two 
to  eight  minutes  according  to  the  nature  and  the  maturit}'  of  the 
food.  (See  time-table).  Live  steam  is  best  for  greens.  Boiling 
water  is  desirable  for  other  products.  Berries  and  some  soft 
fruits  need  not  be  blanched.  The  purpose  of  blanching  is 
( 1 )  to  prepare  for  the  removal  of  the  skin ;  ( 2 )  to  remove  the 
strong  flavor;  (3)  to  eliminate  objectionable  acids;  (4)  to  bring 
out  the  color;  (5)  to  shrink  the  product,  making  possible  a 
fuller  pack;  and  (6)  to  make  the  product  more  flexible. 

Dipping — After  blanching,  the  food  should  be  cold-dipped ; 
that  is,  it  should  be  dipped  quickly  into  water  which  is  as  cold 
as  possible  and  it  should  be  removed  immediately.  Fresh  water 
should  be  used  for  each  dipping.  If  possible,  it  is  desirable  to 
accomplish  the  dipping  process  by  allowing  the  water  to  run 
through  the  food.  The  purpose  of  dipping  is  (1)  to  set  or 
coagulate  the  coloring  matter  so  that  it  does  not  dissolve  so  easily 
during  the  sterilization  period;  (2)  to  harden  the  pulp  beneath 
the  skin;  and  (3)  to  make  the  food  easier  to  handle  in  packing. 

Sterilization — Sterilization,  or  processing,  consists  in  boil- 
ing the  packed  jars  in  a  boiler  or  canner  full  of  water,  for  a 
designated  length  of  time.  (See  time-table.)  The  jars  should  be 
placed  on  a  wooden  rack  in  a  covered  boiler,  which  is  used  as, 
the  canner.  The  canner  should  be  filled  with  sufficient  water  to 
come  over  the  top  of  the  jars  for  at  least  one  inch,  thus  forming  a 
hot-water  bath.  The  water  should  be  boiling  when  the  jars  are 
put  into  the  boiler.  The  jars  should  be  in  the  boiler  and  the 
water  about  them  should  be  kept  at  the  boiling  point  long  enough 
to  make  tender  and  to  thoroughly  sterilize  the  contents.  Steriliza- 
tion, or  processing,  kills  or  renders  ineffective  the  organisms 
within  the  jars  which  would  cause  the  food  to  spoil. 


58 
GENERAL  RULES  FOR  COLD-PACK  CANNING 

1  Can  only  fresh,  sound  products. 

2  Sort,  wash,  and  prepare  the  products. 

3  Blanch  all  green  vegetables  in  steam;  blanch  all  other 

vegetables  and  the  hard  and  citrus  fruits  in  boiling 
water.    Do  not  blanch  berries  and  other  soft  fruits. 

4  Dip  the  vegetables  or  fruits  quickly  into  cold  water  and 

remove  them  immediately. 

5  Pack  at  once  in  clean,  hot  jars. 

6  Place  scalded  rubbers  in  position  on  the  jars. 

7  Add  Yz  teaspoon  of  salt  for  each  pint  of  vegetables. 

8  Fill  jars  of  vegetables  with  boiling  water;  fill  jars  of 

fruit  with  hot  syrup  of  density  desired.  Paddle 
out  any  air  bubbles  with  a  flat  whittled  stick  one 
and  one-half  inches  in  width. 

9  Place  cap  in  position. 

10  Partially  tighten  the  tops  of  the  glass  jars  by  adjusting 

only  the  larger  bail  of  the  glass  top  jar,  or  by  screw- 
ing the  top  of  the  Mason  jar  on  completely,  then 
turning  it  back  one-fourth  of  a  turn  to  loosen  it. 

11  Place  jars  on  the  rack,  lower  them  into  the  hot-water 

bath  and  boil  2  hours  for  greens;  1^  hours  for 
roots  and  tubers;  3  hours  for  beans;  5  hours  for 
corn  and  peas;  16  minutes  for  berries  and  soft 
fruits;  20  minutes  for  hard  fruits;  and  30  minutes 
for  fruits  without  sugar.  Begin  to  count  the  time 
when  the  water  begins  to  boil  vigorously  or  jumps. 

12  Be  sure  that  the  lid  of  canner  is  provided  with  a  small 

hole  to  allow  for  escape  of  steam. 

13  Remove  the   jars   from  the  boiler  at  the  end   of  the 


59 


sterilization,  or  processing,  period  and  seal  imme- 
diately. 

14  Invert  the  jars  to  test  the  seal.    If  not  sealed  properly, 

determine  the  cause,  remedy  it,  and  re-sterilize  in 
the  hot-water  bath  for  10  minutes. 

15  Cool  as  quickly  as  possible,  avoiding  drafts. 

16  Label,  wrap,  and  store  jars  in  a  cool,  dark  place.     A 

uniform  system  of  labelling  will  add  to  the  attrac- 
tiveness of  canned  goods.  Use  labels  of  one  size 
for  all  jars.  Print  the  name  of  food  and  year  on 
each  label.  Place  the  labels  4  inches  from  bottom  of 
quart  jars,  2  inches  from  bottom  of  pint  jars,  and 
1^2  inches  from  bottom  of  jelly  glasses.  Put  the 
labels  on  straight. 

Cautions  to  be  Observed  when   canning  by   the  Cold-Pack 
Method 

1  Do  not  use  old  or  decayed  products.     They  will  prob- 

ably spoil. 

2  Use  one  set  of  directions  only  and   follow  the  time- 

table exactly. 

3  Can  products  as  soon  after  gathering  as  possible,  as 

fruits  and  vegetables  deteriorate  rapidly. 

4  Test  all  jars,  covers,  wire  bails,  rubbers,  etc.,  to  see  if 

in  good  condition,  or  much  loss  may  occur. 

5  Never  use  rubbers  a  second  time.     Jars,  covers,  etc.,  if 

in  good  condition,  may  be  used  from  year  to  year. 

6  If  wire  bail  or  clamp  does  not  go  into  position  with  a 

snap,  remove  it  from  jar  and  bend  it  so  that  it  will 
be  tighter.     This  is  necessary  for  good  results. 

7  Keep  water  as  near  the  boiling  point  as  possible  during 

blanching  and  time  accurately,  then  dip  in  and  out 
of  cold  water  quickly.  Soaking  may  ruin  good  ma- 
terial. 


60 


8  If  possible,  have  jars  stand  in  hot  water  while  pack- 

ing, to  prevent  their  breaking  when  put  into  boiling 
water  to  process.  Place  each  jar  immediately  into 
the  hot-water  bath  as  soon  as  filled. 

9  Have  water  in  the  boiler  at  the  boiling  point  when  the 

jars  are  immersed,  and  do  not  begin  counting  the 
time  until  after  the  last  jar  has  been  placed  in  the 
hot-water  bath  and  the  water  has  once  more  reached 
the  boiling  point.  Over-cooking  is  less  harmful 
than  under-cooking. 

10  If  no  provision  has  been  made  for  the  escape  of  steam 

from  the  canner  there  is  danger  of  the  lid  blowing 
off  while  sterilization  is  in  process. 

11  Do  not  have  jars   or   containers   close   together  while 

cooking;  they  are  apt  to  crack  if  they  touch  one 
another. 

12  As  soon  as  the  product  is  sterilized,  or  processed,  for  the 

stated  length  of  time,  remove  the  jars  from  the 
water-bath  and  seal  them  immediately  so  as  to  ex- 
clude all  air.  Never  open  a  jar  to  replenish  water 
that  has  decreased  through  shrinkage  of  material. 
The  fact  that  there  has  been  an  apparent  loss  of 
liquid  during  the  sterilization  period  does  not  im.- 
pair  the  keeping  quality. 

13  Do  not  place  hot  jars  on  cold  metal,  as  they  may  break; 

place  on  a  board  some  distance  apart  so  they  may 
cool  as  quickly  as  possible. 

14  Do  not  tighten  the  lids  further  after  the  product  has 

cooled  as  the  seal  will  thereby  be  broken  and  air 
may  enter  the  jar. 

15  Examine  the  jars  after  they  have  cooled  over  night,  and 

if  any  of  them  look  suspicious  open  them,  put 
into    other    containers,    cover    with    fresh    boiling 


61 


liquid,  use  new  rubbers,  and  reprocess  at  once  half 
as  long  as  the  original  time. 
16     After  labeling,   store  the  jars  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 
Wrapping  jars  with  paper  prevents  fading  of  foods. 

Equipment    Necessary    for   Cold-Pack    Canning 

1  wash-boiler  or  lard  can  with  a  cover  which  has  been  punc- 
tured to  allow  for  escape  of  steam. 

1  wooden  rack  or  false  bottom  to  fit  in  bottom  of  boiler  or  lard 
can  and  to  raise  the  jars  one  inch  from  the  bottom  of  the 
boiler  and  allow  the  water  to  circulate  beneath.  If  possible 
the  rack  should  be  supplied  with  long  wire  handles  so 
that  it  may  be  put  in  and  lifted  out  with  all  the  jars  on  it 
at  once.  There  should  be  a  rim  around  the  edge  of  the  rack 
so  that  the  jars  will  not  slip  off  when  being  immersed  or 
lifted  out. 

Fruit  jars  with  covers 

Rubber  to  fit  jars 

1  jar-lifter  if  the  rack  is  not  provided  with  handles 

1  wire  basket  or  cheese  cloth  to  use  when  blanching 

1  colander  in  which  to  wash  soft  fruits  and  to  drain  fruits  and 
vegetables  which  have  been  dipped 

1  wide-mouthed  funnel 

1  flat  wooden  paddle  1^  inches  wide 

Directions   for   Sterilizing   Jars,   Covers,   and    Rubbers 

Wash  jars  to  which  good  covers  have  been  fitted  in  hot 
soapy  water  and  then  rinse  in  clear  hot  water.  Place  a  rack  in 
the  bottom  of  a  dishpan  or  large  kettle.  Put  1  inch  of  cold 
water  into  the  pan.  Stand  jars  on  the  rack  and  put  an  inch  of 
cold  water  in  each  jar.  Put  the  covers  on  the  rack  beside  the 
jars.  Cover  with  a  second  dishpan.  Bring  the  water  slowly  to 
boiling  point  and  boil  for  at  least  10  minutes.     Remove  only 


62 


one  jar  at  a  time  when  ready  to  fill.  Never  dry  out  the  jar.  Re- 
cover the  dishpan  each  time  a  jar  is  removed.  Keep  water  at  the 
boiling  point  until  all  the  jars  needed  have  been  used.  Rubbers 
should  not  be  sterilized  with  the  jars,  but  should  be  placed  in 
hot  water  off  the  stove  about  five  minutes  before  using  and  re- 
moved one  at  a  time  as  needed. 

CANNED  VEGETABLES 

General  directions  for  canning  by  the  cold-pack  method 
have  already  been  given.  The  general  rules  should  be  followed, 
the  cautions  carefully  observed  with  every  recipe,  and  the  time 
given  for  each  process  strictly  adhered  to. 

Time-Table  for  Canning  Vegetables   (Cold-Pack  Method) 

STERILIZING    OR 
VEGETABLE  BLANCHING  PROCESSING 

Asparagus 4  to     5  min 2  hrs. 

Beets    10  min l^/^  hrs. 

Carrots 8  min 1 14  hrs. 

Corn    3  min 5  hrs. 

Egg  plant 5  min l^^^  hrs. 

Greens    (Steam) 15  to  20  min 2  hrs. 

Lima  beans 5  to     8  min 3  hrs. 

Okra    10  min 3  hrs. 

Peas 2  to     5  min.  • 5  hrs. 

Sauerkraut   30  min. 

String  beans   5  to     8  min 3  hrs. 

Sweet  potatoes  ...........    8  min 1}4  hrs. 

Tomatoes    1  min 22   min. 

Canned  Asparagus  (Cold-Pack   Method) 

Select  only  young,  tender  asparagus.  Can  immediately. 
Grade  as  to  size  and  wash  carefully,  removing  large  scales. 
Tie  into  bundles  and  plunge  for  3  to  4  minutes  into  boiling 
water.  Because  the  tips  are  more  tender  than  the  stalks,  place 
lower  ends  in  boiling  water  first;  allow  them  to  stand  2  or  3 
minutes;  then  immerse  the  whole  bundle  for  1   or  2  minutes 


63 


longer.  Dip  into  cold  water.  Pack  tips  up,  into  jars  which 
have  been  sterilized.  Place  rubbers  in  position.  Fill  jars 
with  boiling  brine  (2  tablespoons  salt  to  1  quart  of  ^vater).  Put 
caps  in  position.  Place  in  hot-water  bath  and  sterilize  2 
hours.  Remove  from  bath,  seal,  invert  to  test,  wrap,  mark,  and 
store  for  future  use. 

Canned  Beets    (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Grade  the  beets  for  size,  color  and  degree  of  ripeness.  Re- 
move tops,  leaving  at  least  one  inch  of  stem  on  each  beet.  Wash 
thoroughly  by  using  a  vegetable  brush,  being  careful  not  to 
break  the  skin,  as  that  would  cause  loss  of  color.  Cook  in  boil- 
ing water  10  minutes;  plunge  into  cold  water.  Scrape  to  remove 
skin;  pack  w^hole,  or  in  sections  or  cubes,  into  sterilized  jars. 
Place  rubbers  in  position.  Add  boiling  water  and  1  level  tea- 
spoon of  salt  to  each  quart.  Place  tops  in  position  and  sterilize 
in  hot-water  bath  1^  hours.  Remove  from  canner  and  tighten 
tops.    Invert  to  test,  mark,  wrap,  and  store  for  future  use. 

Canned    Carrots    (Cold-Pack   Method) 

Carrots  used  for  canning  should  be  young  and  tender  and 
not  more  than  1^  inches  in  diameter.  Wash  and  blanch  in 
boiling  water  8  minutes.  Dip  into  cold  water,  remove  skin. 
Cut  into  lengths,  slices,  dice,  or  leave  whole.  Pack  into  ster- 
ilized jars.  Place  rubbers  in  position.  Cover  wdth  boiling 
water;  add  1  teaspoon  salt  to  each  quart.  Place  covers  in  posi- 
tion. Put  into  hot-w^ater  bath  and  sterilize  lJ/<  hours.  Remove, 
seal  tightly,  and  invert  to  test.  Wrap  in  paper,  mark,  and  store 
for  future  use. 

The  canning  of  carrots  is  not  advised  unless  they  cannot  be 
stored  successfully  in  their  natural  state. 

Canned  Corn  (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Remove  the  husks  and  silk  from  sound  ears  of  sweet 
corn  that  have  been  freshly  gathered.    Place  in  boiling  water 


64 


for  3  minutes,  then  dip  into  cold  water.  Cut  the  corn  from  the 
cob  and  pack  lightly  to  within  an  inch  of  the  top  of  freshly 
washed  and  scalded  jars.  Place  rubbers  on  jars.  To  each 
quart  add  1  teaspoon  salt  and  1  teaspoon  sugar.  Fill  the  jars 
w^ith  boiling  water,  being  careful  to  break  up  any  air  bubbles. 
Put  caps  in  position.  Arrange  the  jars  on  a  rack  and  immerse 
in  boiling  water  in  a  boiler  or  other  large  container.  Cover  the 
boiler  and  bring  the  water  to  the  boiling  point.  Boil  5  hours. 
If  necessary  to  replenish  water  in  boiler,  add  boiling  water. 
Remove  the  cans  from  the  boiler,  seal  tightly,  invert  to  test,  and 
mark,  then  store  for  winter  use. 

Canned  Corn    (Intermittent  Method) 

Remove  the  husks  and  silk  from  sound  ears  of  sweet  corn 
that  have  been  freshly  gathered.  Place  in  boiling  water  for  3 
minutes,  then  dip  into  cold  water  for  1  minute.  Cut  the  corn 
from  the  cob  and  pack  lightly  to  within  an  inch  of  the  top  of 
freshly  washed  and  scalded  jars.  To  each  quart  add  1  teaspoon 
salt  and  1  teaspoon  sugar.  Fill  the  jars  with  boiling  water, 
being  careful  to  break  up  any  air  bubbles.  Put  the  rubber  and 
lid  in  position,  but  do  not  tighten  the  lid.  Arrange  the  jars  on  a 
rack  in  a  washboiler  or  other  large  container,  surround  with 
water,  cover  the  boiler  tightly  and  bring  the  water  to  the  boiling 
point.  Boil  15  minutes,  then  tighten  the  lids.  Boil  1^  hours 
the  first  day.  On  the  second  and  third  days  bring  again  to  the 
boiling  point  and  boil  one  hour  each  day.  Remove  the  cans 
from  the  boiler,  wipe  them  off,  invert  a  few  hours  in  order  to 
discover  leakage,  and  then  store  for  winter  use. 

Canned    Eggplant 

Wash,  peel,  and  slice  sound  eggplant.  Blanch  in  boiling 
water  for  5  minutes.  Plunge  quickly  into  cold  water  and  pack 
carefully  into  sterilized  jars.  Place  rubbers  in  position.  Fill 
jars  with  boiling  water.    Add  1  teaspoon  salt  to  every  quart  jar. 


65 


Put  cap  in  position  and  sterilize  in  hot-water  bath  V/2  hours. 
Remove  jars.  Seal,  invert  to  test,  mark,  and  store  for  future 
use. 

Canned  eggplant  may  be  made  into  an  attractive  scalloped 
dish. 

Canned  Greens   (Cold-Pack  Method) 

If  it  is  not  possible  to  secure  fresh  greens  for  the  table  all 
the  year  around,  it  may  be  feasible  to  can  greens  when  they  are 
abundant.  Collards,  swiss  chard,  kale,  spinach,  and  beet  tops 
may  be  satisfactorily  canned. 

Can  greens  as  soon  after  picking  as  possible.  Sort  and 
wash  clean.  Blanch  by  steaming  in  a  steamer  15  to  20  minutes. 
Remove,  plunge  quickly  into  cold  water;  cut  up  slightly  \vith 
a  knife,  and  pack  tightly  into  sterilized  jars.  Place  rubbers 
and  add  1  teaspoon  salt  to  each  quart  of  greens.  Add  boiling 
water  to  fill  crevices.  Break  air  bubbles  with  a  wooden  paddle. 
Place  caps  in  position.  Sterilize  2  hours  in  a  hot-water  bath. 
Remove  from  canner,  tighten  covers,  invert  to  test,  mark,  wrap 
in  paper  to  prevent  bleaching.     Store  for  future  use. 

Canned  Lima  Beans    (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Follow  the  directions  for  canning  peas,  but  allow  5  to  8 
minutes  for  blanching  and  sterilize  3  hours. 

Canned  Okra    (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Young,  tender  pods  of  okra  should  be  selected  for  canning. 
After  it  has  been  picked  over  and  washed,  remove  the  stems 
and  blanch  the  pods  in  boiling  w^ater  for  10  minutes,  then  dip 
into  cold  water.  Drain.  Pack  into  sterilized  jars  and  add  1  tea- 
spoon salt  to  each  quart.  Place  rubbers  in  position.  Fill  jars 
with  boiling  water.  Place  caps  in  position  and  arrange  jars  on 
a  rack,  immersing  them  in  boiling  water  in  a  boiler.    Cover  and 


66 


boil  for  3  hours.    Remove  jars  from  the  boiler,  seal,  and  invert 
to  test.     Mark  and  store. 

Canned  Peas    (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Can  peas  within  a  few  hours  of  picking.  Cull,  shell,  and 
grade  the  peas.  Put  in  cheese  cloth  and  plunge  into  boiling 
water  for  2  to  5  minutes  according  to  size.  Remove  and  plunge 
quickly  into  cold  water.  Fill  sterilized  jars.  Place  rubbers 
in  position.  Add  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt  to  each  quart.  Fill 
the  jar  with  boiling  water;  break  up  air  bubbles  with  a  wooden 
paddle.  Place  caps  in  position.  Place  in  hot-water  bath  and 
sterilize  5  hours.  Remove  jars,  tighten  covers,  and  invert  to 
test.     Cool,  mark,  wrap  jars  in  paper,  and  store  for  future  use. 

Sauerkraut 

Select  solid  heads  of  cabbage,  look  over  carefully,  remove 
the  outside  leaves,  and  cut  into  quarters,  removing  the  core.  Cut 
cabbage  into  fine  shreds  with  a  sharp  knife  or  slaw-cutter. 
Put  a  layer  of  cabbage  5  inches  in  depth  into  a  five-gallon  stone 
crock,  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  using  2  pounds  salt  to  100 
pounds  cabbage ( about  2  bushels).  One  bushel  of  cabbage  will 
make  between  3  and  4  gallons  of  kraut.  Add  another  five-inch 
layer  of  cabbage  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Stamp  each  time  until 
brine  appears.  When  last  portion  of  cabbage  and  salt  has 
been  added  and  stamped,  and  brine  appears  well  over  the  top, 
cover  the  top  with  a  clean  cloth  and  a  plate  or  board  to  fit  tightly 
into  the  crock.  Weight  cabbage  down  by  placing  a  heavy  weight 
on  the  plate,  being  careful  not  to  use  sandstone  or  limestone,  as 
acid  is  apt  to  attack  them.  A  gallon  jug  filled  with  water 
makes  a  good  weight.  Leave  cabbage  in  a  temperature  of  from 
60  to  70  degrees  for  about  2  weeks.  Remove  the  white  foam 
which  daily  rises  to  the  top.  Care  must  be  taken  that  the 
cabbage  is  always  covered  with  brine,  adding  more  brine  as 
necessary.    When  the  brine  has  developed  an  acid  taste  it  is 


6; 

ready  for  use.  If  it  cannot  be  successfully  kept  in  the  crock,  it 
may  be  stored  in  sealed  jars.  Pack  the  kraut  into  sterilized 
jars;  place  rubbers  in  position;  fill  jars  with  boiling  water, 
place  caps  in  position,  and  process  30  minutes  in  a  hot- water 
bath.     Remove  jars,  seal,  mark,  and  store. 

If  the  kraut  is  to  be  made  in  a  wooden  keg  instead  of  in  a 
stone  crock,  the  keg  should  be  lined  with  clean,  outside  cabbage 
leaves  to  protect  the  kraut  from  the  taste  of  the  keg. 

Canned  String  Beans    (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Wash  and  string  the  green  beans  which  have  been  freshly 
gathered.  Plunge  into  boiling  water  5  to  8  minutes  according 
to  size,  and  then  plunge  into  cold  water  quickly.  Drain.  Pack 
into  clean  scalded  jars  and  add  1  teaspoon  salt  to  each  quart 
jar.  Place  rubber  in  position  and  fill  jar  with  boiling  water, 
being  careful  to  break  any  air  bubbles.  Place  cap  in  position. 
Arrange  the  jars  on  a  rack,  immerse  in  boiling  water  in  a  wash- 
boiler,  or  other  large  container,  cover  the  boiler,  and  bring  the 
water  to  the  boiling  point.  Boil  3  hours.  Remove  the  jars 
from  the  boiler,  tighten  the  tops,  and  invert  to  test.  Mark, 
then  store  for  winter  use. 

Canned  String  Beans  or  Peas  (Intermittent  Method) 

Wash  and  string  the  green  beans  or 'shell  the  peas  which 
have  been  freshly  gathered.  Plunge  into  boiling  water  for  10  or 
15  minutes,  and  then  dip  in  cold  water  for  3  minutes.  Pack 
into  clean  scalded  jars  and  add  1  teaspoon  salt  and  1  tablespoon 
of  vinegar  to  each  quart  jar.  Place  the  rubber  and  lid  in  posi- 
tion. Arrange  the  jars  on  a  rack  in  a  washboiler  or  other  large 
container,  surround  with  water,  cover  tightly,  and  bring  the 
water  to  the  boiling  point.  Boil  15  minutes  and  tighten  the  lids. 
Boil  1^  hours  the  first  day.  On  the  second,  third  and  fourth 
days,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  1  hour  each  day.  On 
the  fourth  day  remove  the  jars  from  the  boiler,  wipe  them  off 


68 


and  invert  them  a  few  hours  in  order  to  discover  leakage.  Then 
store  for  winter  use. 

Canned  Sweet  Potatoes    (Cold  Pack  Method) 

Follow  the  recipe  for  canned  carrots. 

The  canning  of  sweet  potatoes  is  not  recommended  unless 
they  cannot  be  stored  successfully  in  their  natural  state. 

Canned   Tomatoes    (Cold-Pack   Method) 

Select  ripe,  sound  tomatoes  uniform  in  size.  Can  soon  af- 
ter being  picked.  Wash,  put  in  a  wire  basket,  and  lower  into 
boiling  water  for  1  minute.  Remove  at  once  to  prevent  soften- 
ing. Plunge  into  cold  water  to  make  firmer.  Peel  immediately. 
Cut  out  cores  with  a  pointed  paring  knife,  being  careful  not  to 
cut  into  the  seeds.  Pack  tomatoes  whole  or  in  large  pieces  in 
sterilized  jars;  add  1  teaspoon  each  of  sugar  and  salt  to  every 
quart  of  tomatoes.  Place  rubbers  in  position;  fill  jars  with 
boiling  water.  Break  up  any  air  bubbles  with  a  wooden  paddle. 
Place  caps  in  position.  Immerse  filled  jars  in  a  hot  water  bath 
and  sterilize  22  minutes.  Remove  jars  and  seal.  Invert  to 
test,  mark,  wrap  in  paper,  and  store  for  future  use. 

Canned   Tomatoes    (Open-Kettle   Method) 

It  is  often  desirable  to  can  a  few  tomatoes  at  a  time  and  for 
this  purpose  the  housewife  may  desire  to  make  use  of  the  open- 
kettle  method.  Tomotoes  may  be  satisfactorily  canned  in  this 
way  if  all  precautions  concerning  the  sterilization  of  the  cans 
and  utensils  used  in  the  work  are  carefully  observed. 

Select  sound,  ripe  tomatoes.  Scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes, 
cut  in  pieces,  and  boil  gently,  adding  little  or  no  watet,  for 
thirty  minutes.  Add  1  teaspoon  salt  for  every  quart  of  tomatoes. 
Put  a  rubber  on  a  sterilized  jar.  Pour  the  tomatoes  into  the 
jar,  filling  the  jar  full;  place  lid  in  position  and  immediately 
tighten  the  lid  completely.  Invert  the  jars  to  detect  any  leakage. 
When  cool  mark  the  jars,  wrap,  and  store  in  a  dark  place. 


69 


PICKLES  AND  OTHER  RELISHES 

Bacteria  do  not  grow  in  substances  that  contain  a  large 
amount  of  acid;  hence  there  is  little  danger  of  those  pickles 
spoiling  that  have  been  j)repared  with  a  large  amount  of  vinegar. 
Cloves,  cinnamon,  mustard,  and  other  spices  also  retard  the 
growth  of  bacteria,  hence  they  aid  in  the  preservation  of  pickles 
and  spiced  foods.     It  is  not  necessary  to  process  pickles. 

A  variety  of  recipes  for  pickles  and  relishes  are  given  be- 
cause of  the  great  diversity  of  taste  in  the  choice  of  pickles.  A 
relish  which  one  family  enjoys  may  very  seldom  appear  on  the 
table  in  another  home. 

Apple  Chutney   (Open-Kettle  Method) 

1 2  sour  apples  1  quart  cider  vinegar 

1  medium-size  onion  1  cup  currant  or  plum  jelly 

2  green  peppers  2  cups  sugar 

1  red  pepper  1  tablespoon  salt 

1  cup  raisins  1  tablespoon  ground  ginger 

4  lemons  (juice)  ^  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 

Pare  and  core  the  apples.  Peel  the  onion;  remove  seeds 
and  stems  from  peppers;  chop  apples,  onion,  peppers,  and  rai- 
sins very  fine.  Add  the  juice  of  the  lemons,  1  pint  of  the  cider 
vinegar,  and  the  currant  or  plum  jelly.  Let  simmer  very  gently 
for  1  hour,  stirring  frequently.  Then  add  remainder  of  vinegar, 
the  sugar,  salt,  ginger,  and  pepper.  Cook  1  hour  more,  stirring 
constantly.  Put  into  sterilized  jars  and  seal,  mark,  and  store. 
Use  for  an  accompaniment  to  cold  meats  or  for  salad  on  head 
lettuce. 

Chili   Sauce    (Open-Kettle  Method) 

1 2  medium-sized  ripe  to-  1  tablespoon  salt 

matoes  2  teaspoons  ground  cloves 

1  pepper,  finely  chopped  2  teaspoons  ground  cinna- 

1  onion,  finely  chopped  mon 

2  cups  vinegar  2  teaspoons  ground  allsj^ice 

3  tablespoons  sugar  2  teaspoons  grated  nutmeg 


70 


Scald,  peel,  and  slice  the  tomatoes.  Put  into  a  kettle  with 
remaining  ingredients,  bring  gradually  to  the  boiling  point,  and 
cook  slowly  2J/<  hours.  Put  into  sterilized  bottles  or  jars.  Seal. 
If  corked  bottles  are  used,  dip  necks  into  bottle  wax  or  paraffin. 
Mark  and  store.     Serve  with  meat  and  fish. 


Chow 

Chow 

y2  bushel  green  tomatoes 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon 

1  dozen  onions 

1  tablespoon  allspice 

1  dozen  green  peppers 

1  tablespoon  cloves 

Vinegar 

1  tablespoon  peppercorns 

Salt 

y2  cup  ground  mustard 

2  pounds  sugar 

1  pint  horseradish 

Chop  the  vegetables  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  well,  then  add  vinegar  to 
cover,  and  cook  slowly  1  hour ;  drain  again  and  pack  closely  in  a 
jar. 

Mix  the  sugar,  cinnamon,  allspice,  cloves,  peppercorns, 
ground  mustard,  and  horse-radish  with  enough  vinegar  to  cover 
well,  then  when  l^oiling  hot  pour  it  over  the  mixture  in  the  jar 
and  cover  tightly. 

Cucumber   Pickles    (Open-Kettle   Method) 

500  midget  cucumbers  1  pint  water 

1  cup  salt  1  piece  alum 

1  quart  small  onions  2  cups  sugar 

3  pints  vinegar  2  ounces  mustard  seed 

Wash  and  wipe  the  cucumbers  dry.  Sprinkle  with  the  salt 
and  add  cold  water  to  cover.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Put  the  vine- 
gar, water,  alum,  and  sugar  into  a  kettle.  Add  the  cucumbers 
and  onions.  Heat  slowly  until  scalded,  but  do  not  boil.  When 
finished  the  pickles  should  be  crisp.  Boiling  will  soften  them, 
hence  follow  directions  closely.  Remove  pickles  at  once,  pack 
into  jars,  and  discard  the  liquid.  Make  a  fresh  vinegar  solution 
with  the  same  quantities  of  vinegar,  water,  alum,  and  sugar,  add 


71 


the  mustard  seed,  and  let  come  to  the  Ijoiling  point.     Pour  the 
boiling  liquid  over  the  pickles  in  the  jars.  Seal,  mark,  and  store. 

Dixie  Relish   (Cold-Pack  Method) 

1  quart  chopped  cabbage  5  tablespoons  mustard  seed 

1  pint  chopped  white  onion  2  tablespoons  celery  seed 

1  pint  chopped  sweet  red  >)4  cup  sugar 

pepper  1  quart  vinegar 

1  pint  chopped  green  pepper  5  tablespoons  salt 

Wash  peppers  and  soak  them  in  brine  (1  cup  of  salt  to  1 
gallon  of  water) for  24  hours.  Freshen  in  clear,  cold  water  for  1 
to  2  hours.  Drain  well.  Remove  the  seeds  and  the  coarse  white 
section.  Chop  separately  and  measure  the  chopped  cabbage, 
onions,  and  peppers,  before  mixing.  Add  spices,  sugar,  and 
vinegar.  Let  stand  over  night  in  a  covered  crock  or  enamel 
dish.  Use  for  filling  stuffed  peppers  or  pack  into  small,  steril- 
ized jars.  Place  rubber  and  cap  in  position.  Sterilize  15  minutes 
in  hot  water  bath.  Seal,  invert  to  test,  mark,  wrap,  and  store 
for  future  use. 

Green-Tomato  Pickles    (Open-Kettle  Method) 

1  peck  green  tomatoes,  sliced        1  cup  salt 

6  large  onions,  sliced  1  quart  vinegar 

Wash  and  slice  the  green  tomatoes  and  onions  and  let  them 
stand  together  over  night.  Next  day  boil  them  in  2  quarts  of 
water  and  the  vinegar  for  15  minutes.  Pour  off  this  vinegar  and 
then  boil  the  vegetables  in  the  following  mixture 

2  pounds  light  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  mustard 
2  quarts  vinegar  1  tablespoon  allspice 

2  tablespoons  cloves  2  tablespoons  cinnamon 

If  a  lighter  product  is  desired,  whole  spices  may  be  used, 

tied  in  a  cheese-cloth  bag.     Four  times  the  amount  given  above 

will  be  needed  if  whole  spices  are  used.    After  the  tomatoes  have 

boiled  5  minutes,  pack  in  sterilized  jars.     Seal,  mark,  and  store. 


72 


Pickled  Apples   (Open-Kettle  Method) 

1  peck  sweet  apples  ^"2  ounce  cinnamon  stick 
3  pounds  sugar  I/2  ounce  cloves,  whole 

2  quarts  vinegar 

Wash,  quarter,  and  pare  the  apples.  Make  a  syrup  of  the 
vinegar  and  sugar,  and  add  the  spices  tied  in  a  small  piece  of 
cheese-cloth.  Boil  the  apples  in  the  syrup  until  they  can  be 
pierced  easily  with  a  fork,  but  do  not  allow  thera  to  become 
broken.  Put  the  apples  into  a  sterilized  jar  and  cover  with  the 
boiling  syrup.     Seal  at  once.    Test,  mark,  and  store. 

Pickled  Beets  (Open-Kettle  Method) 

Wash  beets  well,  leaving  one  inch  of  stem  on  each  beet. 
Cook  in  boiling  water  until  the  beets  are  soft  when  pressed  with 
a  fork — about  2  hours  (this  is  dependent  upon  the  size  of  the 
beets).  After  beets  have  been  boiled,  dip  into  cold  water,  skin, 
and  slice.  Make  a  thin  syrup,  using  ^  gallon  vinegar,  2  cups 
sugar,  2'/3  tablespoons  salt,  and  Vs  teaspoon  pepper  for  each 
peck  of  beets.  Put  sliced  beets  into  the  boiling  vinegar  and  cook 
5  minutes.  Put  into  sterilized  jars,  fill  with  hot  liquid,  and  seal. 
Invert  to  test,  mark,  and  store. 

Pickled  Onions   (Open-Kettle  Method) 

1  peck  small  white  onions  1  cup  sugar 

5  tablespoons  salt  II/2  tablespoons  mustard  seed 

.5^  gallon  water  1  tablespoon  salt 

4  or  5  small  red  peppers  1  tablespoon  stick  cinna- 

Yz  gallon  vinegar  mon 

1  ^  tablespoons  celery  seed  1  tablespoon  cloves 

^  cup  grated  horseradish 

Pick  over,  wash,  and  sort  the  onions.  Peel  and  cover  with 
water;  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  two  days;  change  the  water 
on  the  second  day.  On  the  third  day  wash  the  onions  well,  and 
put  them  into  a  brine  made  of  salt  and  water,  for  four  days, 
keeping  as  cool  as  possible.    At  the  same  time  prepare  a  spiced 


73 


vinegar  with  the  remaining  ingredients.  Tie  the  spices  in  a 
cheese-cloth  bag,  leaving  them  in  the  vinegar  for  four  days. 
Change  the  brine  on  the  onions  on  the  second  day.  On  the  fourth 
day  take  onions  out  of  the  brine  and  put  into  boiling  water;  let 
stand  10  minutes;  then  put  into  cold  water  for  2  hours.  Drain 
and  pack  the  onions  into  small  jars,  adding  the  small  red  pep- 
pers or  slices  of  red  and  green  peppers.  Fill  the  jars  to  over- 
flowing with  the  spiced  vinegar.  This  amount  will  make  about 
6  pints.     Seal,  mark  and  store. 

Pickled  Peaches 

8  pounds  peaches  4  pounds  sugar 

2  or  3  cloves  in  each  1  pint  vinegar 

Wash  the  peaches,  but  do  not  peel  them.  Remove  the  buds 
from  the  ends  of  the  cloves  and  insert  2  or  3  cloves  in  each 
peach.  Boil  peaches  in  a  syrup  made  of  the  sugar  and  vinegar 
until  tender,  drain  off  the  syrup  and  put  peaches  on  platters  over 
night.  Set  the  syrup  aside  to  cool.  The  next  day  put  the  cold 
peaches  into  sterilized  jars  and  pour  the  cold  syrup  over  them. 
Seal,  mark,  and  store. 

Pickled  Pears 

Follow  the  recipe  for  pickled  apples. 

Sliced  Cucumber  Pickles  (Open  Kettle  Method) 

1  dozen  cucumbers 
1  dozen  onions 
ys  cup  salt 
Cucumbers  about  2  inches  in  diameter  and  4  inches  long 
are  best  to  use.    Slice  the  cucumbers   and  onions   in  Vs  inch 
pieces,  add  salt,  and  let  stand  two  hours;  drain.     Boil  the  fol- 
lowing ingredients: — 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  mustard  seed 

1  cup  vinegar  1  teaspoon  cassia  buds  or 

1  teaspoon  celery  seed  stick  cinnamon 


74 


Add  drained  cucumbers  and  onions  to  this  hot  liquid  and 
boil  15  minutes.  Put  into  sterilized  jars  and  seal.  Mark  and 
store. 

Spiced  Pears 

7  pounds  pears  8  whole  cloves 

3  pounds  sugar  8  whole  allspice 

1  pint  vinegar  2  sticks  cinnamon 

^  lemon  rind  ^  ounce  ginger  root 

Cut  the  pears  in  half,  remove  the  seeds  and  pare.  Put  the 
vinegar  and  sugar  on  to  boil.  Into  each  piece  of  pear  stick 
three  or  four  cloves.  Divide  the  cinnamon,  allspice,  and  ginger 
in  two  parts,  put  into  small  pieces  of  cheesecloth,  tie  tightly, 
and  then  throw  them  into  the  sugar  and  vinegar.  When  the 
mixture  begins  to  simmer,  add  the  pears  and  lemon  rind,  bring 
all  to  boiling  point,  take  from  the  fire,  and  turn  carefully  into 
a  stone  jar.  Stand  in  a  cool  place  over  night.  Next  day  drain 
all  the  syrup  from  the  pears  into  a  porcelain-lined  or  agate 
kettle,  cook  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  when  boiling  hot  pour  it 
back  into  the  jar  over  the  pears.  Next  day  drain  and  heat 
again  as  before;  do  this  for  five  consecutive  days.  The  last 
day  boil  the  syrup  down  until  there  is  just  enough  to  cover 
the  fruit.  Add  the  fruit  to  the  hot  syrup,  bring  the  whole  to  a 
boil,  and  put  in  stone  or  glass  jars,  or  tumblers.  The  pears 
may  be  finished  in  one  day,  by  taking  out  the  fruit  and  cooking 
the  syrup  slowly  down  to  the  right  amount,  adding  the  fruit  to 
reheat  it,  and  fi-nishing  as  above.  The  fruit  is  less  rich  if 
done  this  way. 

Spiced  Prunes    (Open-Kettle  Method) 

1  pound  prunes  Yz  ounce  whole  cloves 

1  pint  vinegar  1  ounce  stick  cinnamon 

2  cups  sugar 

Wash  the  prunes  well  and  soak  in  cold  water  12  hours, 
pour  the  water  off.    Make  a  syrup  of  vinegar  and  sugar,  and  add 


75 


spices  tied  in  a  small  piece  of  cheese-cloth.  Add  the  prunes 
to  syrup  and  simmer  slowly  until  very  tender.  Pack  in  sterilized 
jars.     Cover  with  boiling  syrup.     Seal,  mark,  and  store. 

Stuffed  Peppers    (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Soak  sweet  peppers  in  brine  (1  cup  salt  to  1  gallon  of 
water)  for  24  hours.  When  ready  to  stuff,  take  them  from  the 
brine,  rinse  in  fresh  water,  carefully  cut  a  circle  off  the  top  of 
each  pepper,  and  save  to  be  placed  on  peppers  after  stuffing. 
Remove  seeds  and  white  Sections  and  soak  peppers  in  clear  water 
1  or  2  hours ;  drain  carefully.  Fill  the  peppers  with  Dixie  Relish 
being  careful  not  to  press  it  in  too  tightly.  Place  the  tops  on 
the  peppers  and  make  each  secure  by  one  or  two  stitches  of 
thread,  or  keep  in  place  by  fastening  with  two  or  three  wooden 
tooth  picks.  Pack  as  many  stuffed  peppers  as  can  be  placed  in 
a  jar  without  crushing  them.  Fill  jar  with  spiced  vinegar. 
Process  15  minutes  in  hot-water  bath.  Remove,  seal,  invert  to 
test,  wrap,  and  store  for  future  use. 

Tomato  Ketchup   (Open-Kettle  Method) 

12  ripe  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  ginger 

2  large  onions  1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

4  green  peppers  .        1  tablespoon  mustard 

2  tablespoons  salt  1  nutmeg  (grated) 

4  tablespoons  brown  sugar  1  quart  vinegar 

Peel  the  tomatoes  and  onions.  Chop  the  onions  and  peppers 
fine.  Boil  all  the  ingredients  together  slowly  for  3  hours,  or 
until  very  soft,  stirring  frequently.  Strain  and  reheat.  Pour 
into  sterilized  bottles,  cork,  and  seal  immediately  with  bottle  wax 
or  paraffin.  Mark  and  store.  Serve  with  meat  and  fish. 
Tomato    Relish    (Uncooked) 

1  peck  ripe  tomatoes  jX  cup  mustard  seed 

1  cup  salt  2  cups  sugar 

2  cups  chopped  celery  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
2  cups  chopped  onions                    1  teaspoon  cloves 

6  red  peppers,  chopped  fine  1  quart  vinegar 


76 


Scald  and  skin  the  tomatoes  and  cut  them  in  dice.  Add 
the  salt  to  the  tomatoes  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  Drain 
thoroughly.  Add  the  remaining  ingredients.  Mix  well.  Put 
into  sterilized  jars  and  seal.     Mark  and  store. 

Watermelon-Rind  Pickles 

1  medium  watermelon  rind  ^  cup  cassia  buds 

3  pounds  sugar  4  pieces  ginger  root 

1  pint  vinegar 
Cut  the  watermelon  rind  into  strips  three  inches  long 
and  one  inch  wide.  Peel  and  remove  all  pink  part.  Steam  over 
boiling  water  till  the  watermelon  can  be  pierced  with  a  fork. 
Boil  the  sugar  and  vinegar  to  a  heavy  syrup.  Add  the  cassia 
buds,  ginger  root,  and  watermelon.  Cook  slowly  until  the  water- 
melon rind  is  transparent.  Pack  into  small  sterilized  jars.  This 
recipe  will  make  6  pints.     Seal,  mark,  and  store. 

CANNED  MEATS 
Canned  Beef  or  Pork  (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Fresh  meat  may  be  kept  indefinitely  by  canning  according 
to  the  following  directions: — 

Cut  meat  into  pieces  about  3  or  4  inches  square,  removing 
all  bones.  Dust  lightly  with  a  mixture  of  salt  and  pepper.  Pack 
tightly  into  sterilized  jars  and  see  that  there  are  several  fat 
pieces  on  top.  Place  rubbers  on  jars  and  put  caps  in  place.  Boil 
steadily  in  a  hot- water  bath  for  4  hours.  When  done,  remove 
from  bath,  tighten  lids,  and  invert  to  test.  When  moderately 
cooled,  dip  tops  into  paraffin.  The  next  day  the  meat  may  have 
settled  to  about  three-fourths  the  jar  content  and  it  should  have 
a  thick  coating  of  fat  on  top.  Mark  the  jars,  wrap  in  paper,  and 
put  in  a  dark  place.  When  ready  to  use,  set  the  jar  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water,  and  the  meat  will  come  out  more  readily. 


77 


Canned  Chicken    (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Cook  the  chicken  till  tender  in  hot  water,  adding  1  table- 
spoon salt  after  the  chicken  has  cooked  15  minutes.  Remove 
the  bones,  pack  meat  into  jars,  and  follow  directions  as  for 
canned  beef. 

CANNED  FRUITS 

Almost  all  fruits  give  satisfactory  results  when  canned, 
and  the  thrifty  housewife  will  have  a  large  number  of  jars  of 
canned  fruits  on  the  pantry  shelves.  General  directions  for 
canning  must  be  observed  and  can  be  applied  to  local  fruits  not 
named  in  the  tables  and  recipes. 

A  fruit  is  preserved  in  more  nearly  its  natural  condition  if 
the  cold-pack  method  is  followed,  but  the  open-kettle  method 
can  be  satisfactorily  employed  with  most  fruits. 

The  thickness  of  the  syrup  may  be  varied  according  to  the 
acidity  of  the  fruit — 1  cup  of  sugar  to  3  cups  of  water  for  a 
very  sweet  syrup,  1  cup  of  sugar  to  5  cups  of  water  for  a  thin 
s}Tup.  When  sugar  is  scarce  the  amount  used  may  be  reduced 
to  1  cup  of  sugar  to  9  cups  of  water  and  the  fruit  will  still  be 
found  sufficiently  sweet  to  be  palatable. 

The  sugar  used  in  canning  serves  only  to  sweeten  the 
fruit  and  to  bring  out  its  flavor.  When  used  in  proportions  for 
canning,  it  does  not  form  a  sufficiently  dense  syrup  to  aid  in 
the  preservation  of  the  fruit,  as  it  does  in  preserves,  jams,  and 
marmalades.  Therefore  fruits  can  be  canned  without  sugar 
and  will  keep  indefinitely  if  the  principles  of  sterilization  are 
strictly  observed.  However,  an  additional  amount  of  labor  is 
involved  when  the  sugar  must  be  added  at  the  time  of  serving 
the  fruit,  and  most  housekeepers  prefer  to  have  the  fruit  sweet- 
ened for  serving  when  it  is  canned  unless  sugar  is  scarce  or  its 
price  prohibitive. 


78 


Sugar   Substitutes   to  be  Used   in   Canning 

Because  of  the  increased  price  of  sugar  and  the  frequent 
shortage  of  supply,  it  is  sometimes  desirable  to  substitute  other 
sweetening  substances  when  canning  fruits.  Corn  syrup,  glu- 
cose, honey,  maple  syrup,  molasses,  and  sorghum  may  be  used 
in  place  of  part  or  of  all  of  the  sugar  in  canning.  With  the 
exception  of  honey,  the  syrups  are  less  sweet  than  sugar;  there- 
fore, more  syrup  will  be  required  to  secure  the  same  degree  of 
sweetness.  However,  it  is  not  necessary  to  use  so  large  an  amount 
of  sugar  as  many  recipes  give,  and  it  would  be  well  if  a  taste 
for  foods  that  are  less  sweet  should  be  acquired. 

For  canned  fruits,  syrups  may  be  entirely  substituted  for 
sugar.  For  preserves  and  marmalades  at  least  twenty-five  per 
cent  of  sugar  should  be  used  in  combination  with  the  syrup.  In 
jellies  it  is  desirable  to  use  at  least  fifty  per  cent  of  sugar  with 
the  syrup  substituted. 

Time-Table    for   Canning    Fruits 

(Cold-Pack   Method) 

MATERIALS  BLANCHING  STERILIZING  OR 

PROCESSING 

Apples    .  .  •  • 1  14  min 20  minutes 

Apricots    2   min.    ......  16  minutes 

■   Blackberries    16  minutes 

Cherries    •  • 16  minutes 

Dewberries    16  minutes 

Gooseberries    1   min 20  minutes 

Peaches    2   min •  •  16  minutes 

Pears    20  to  35  minutes 

Plums    .  .  •  • 20  minutes 

Raspberries    16  minutes 

Strawberries    16  minutes 

Canned  Apples    (Cold-Pack   Method) 

Wash,  quarter,  pare,  and  core  sound  apples.  Blanch  1^ 


79 


minutos  in  boiling  water.  Plunge  quickly  into  cold  water.  Pack 
in  sterilized  jars.  Place  rubbers  in  position.  Fill  crevices  in 
jars  with  boiling  syrup  which  has  been  prepared  by  using  1 
cup  of  sugar  to  5  cups  of  water.  Break  up  any  air-bubbles  with 
a  small  wooden  paddle.  Place  cap  in  position.  Place  filled 
jars  in  hot-water  bath  and  sterilize  20  minutes.  Remove  from 
boiler,  seal,  invert  to  test,  mark,  wrap,  and  store. 

Canned  Apricots    (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Follow  the  recipe  for  canned  peaches. 

Canned  Cherries   (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Wash,  stem,  and  stone  cherries.  Pack  in  sterilized  jars. 
Place  rubbers  in  position.  Fill  jars  with  boiling  syrup  made  by 
using  1  cup  of  sugar  to  3  cups  of  water.  Break  up  any  air-bub- 
bles v/ith  a  small  wooden  paddle.  Place  cap  in  position.  Place 
filled  jars  in  hot- water  bath  and  sterilize  16  minutes.  Re- 
move from  boiler,  seal,  invert  to  test,  mark,  wrap,  and  store. 

Cherries  can  also  be  successfully  canned  by  the  open- 
kettle  method  because  they  contain  so  large  an  amount  of  acid. 

Canned  Blackberries    (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Follow  the  recipe  for  canned  dewberries. 

Canned  Dewberries   (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Rinse  fruit  by  pouring  water  over  it  through  a  strainer. 
Remove  stems  and  any  dried  berries.  Pack  immediately  into 
clean,  sterilized  jars;  place  rubbers  on  jars;  and  fill  with  syrup 
made  of  1  cup  of  sugar  and  3  cups  of  water.  Cook  syrup  slightly 
and  fill  jars.  Place  cap  in  position,  partially  tighten,  and  put 
into  hot-water  bath  and  sterilize  16  minutes.  Remove  the  jar, 
seal,  and  invert  to  test.     Mark,  wrap,  and  store  for  future  use. 

Canned  Gooseberries    (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Pick  over  and  remove  stems  and  buds  from  gooseberries. 
Wash.    Blanch  1  minute  in  boiling  water.     Dip  into  cold  water. 


80 


Pack  closely  into  sterilized  jars.  Put  rubbers  in  position.  Fill 
with  boiling  syrup,  using  1  cup  of  sugar  to  3  cups  of  water. 
Break  up  any  air  bubbles  with  a  wooden  paddle.  Put  cap  in 
position.  Sterilize  in  hot-water  bath  20  minutes.  Remove,  seal, 
invert  to  test,  mark,  wrap,  and  store. 

Canned  Gooseberries   (Cold  Water) 

Green  gooseberries  may  be  canned  in  cold  water  in  the 
same  way  in  which  rhubarb  is  canned,  because  they  also  con- 
tain a  large  amount  of  acid. 

Canned  Peaches    (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Immerse  firm  peaches  in  boiling  water  for  2  minutes.  Dip 
quickly  into  cold  water.  Remove  the  skin,  cut  in  halves,  and 
pack  neatly  in  sterilized  jars.  Place  rubbers.  Add  boiling 
syrup  made  by  cooking  sugar  and  water  in  proportion  of  1  cup 
of  sugar  to  3  cups  of  water.  Break  up  any  air  bubbles  with  a 
wooden  paddle.  Place  cap  in  position,  sterilize  filled  jars  in  hot- 
water  bath  16  minutes.  Remove  jars,  secure  caps  tightly, 
invert  to  test,  mark,  wrap  in  paper,  and  store  for  future  use. 

Canned  Peaches    (Open-Kettle   Method) 

16  pounds  prepared  peaches  1  quart  water 

6  pounds  sugar 

Select  firm  fruit.  Peel  the  peaches  or  put  them  into  a  wire 
basket  and  plunge  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water.  In  two  minutes 
take  them  out  and  remove  the  skins.  Cut  in  halves.  Make 
a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water,  and  when  it  boils  add  enough 
peaches  to  fill  a  jar.  When  soft,  put  them  into  sterilized  jars. 
Cover  with  boiling  syrup,  add  three  nuts  from  the  peach  stones 
to  each  jar.  Break  up  any  air-bubbles  with  a  sterilized  paddle. 
Seal  at  once.    Invert  to  test,  mark,  and  store. 


81 


Canned  Pears    (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Follow  directions  for  canned  apples.  It  will  be  necessary 
to  allow  a  longer  time  for  sterilizing  very  hard  pears,  30  to  35 
minutes. 

Canned    Plums    (Cold-Pack   Method) 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  plums.  Prick  each  plum  with  a 
needle  to  prevent  the  bursting  of  the  skin  when  cooking.  Pack 
closely  into  sterilized  jars.  Place  rubbers  in  position.  Fill 
jars  with  boiling  syrup,  using  2  cups  of  sugar  to  3  cups  of  water. 
Place  caps  in  position.  Sterilize  in  hot- water  bath  15  to  20 
minutes  according  to  size.  Remove,  seal,  invert  to  test,  mark, 
and  store. 

Canned  Plums   (Open-Kettle  Method) 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  plums.  Prick  each  plum  with  a 
needle  to  prevent  the  bursting  of  the  skin  when  cooking.  Pre- 
pare a  syrup,  using  2  cups  of  sugar  to  3  cups  of  water  if  the 
plums  are  very  sour.  When  syrup  boils  add  the  plums  and 
cook  till  plums  are  soft  but  not  broken  up.  Pour  into  sterilized 
jars  after  putting  rubber  in  place.  Place  caps  on  jars  and  seal. 
Invert  to  test,  mark,  and  store. 

Canned   Rhubarb    (Cold   Water) 

Pare  rhubarb  and  cut  in  1-inch  pieces.  Pack  into  a  steri- 
lized jar.  Put  under  cold-water  faucet  and  let  water  run  into  the 
jar  for  20  minutes.    Then  screw  on  cover. 

Because  of  the  large  amount  of  strong  acid  in  rhubarb,  it 
will  keep  indeiinitely  when  canned  in  cold  water  without  the 
application  of  heat. 

Canned  Strawberries    (Cold-Pack  Method) 

Follow  the  directions  given  for  canning  cherries  by  the 
cold-pack  method,  using  a  syrup  made  with  1  cup  of  sugar  to 
5  of  water. 


82 


JELLY  MAKING 


The  art  of  preparing  jellies  from  the  juice  of  fruits  is  one 
in  which  every  housewife  is  eager  to  perfect  herself.  One  can 
point  with  justifiable  pride  to  the  shelf  of  well-made  jellies 
that  are  going  to  increase  the  attractiveness  of  the  family  table 
and  add  to  the  palatability  of  a  diet  which  might  otherwise  be 
monotonously  simple.  A  few  fundamental  principles  must  be 
borne  in  mind  if  one  is  to  become  expert  in  jelly  making. 

ESSENTIALS  TO  JELLY  MAKING 

Pectin,  the  jelly-making  property  of  fruits — The  substance 
in  fruit  juice  that  causes  the  juice  to  thicken  and  form  a  jelly 
after  it  has  cooked  is  called  pectin.  This  substance  is  present 
in  different  quantities  in  various  fruits;  hence  some  fruits  can 
readily  be  made  into  a  jelly,  while  a  jelly  cannot  be  successfully 
made  from  other  fruits.  The  amount  of  pectin  varies  at  dif- 
ferent stages  of  ripeness  of  the  fruit.  Pectin  is  present  in 
largest  quantity  in  fruits  that  are  slightly  under  ripe.  Over- 
ripe fruits  contain  less  pectin.  Pectin  is  found  near  the  skin 
or  around  the  core  of  fruit ;  hence  clean  parings  and  sound  cores 
should  be  cooked  with  the  fruit  when  making  jellies. 

Acid  necessary  in  making  jelly — In  addition  to  pectin,  it 
is  necessary  that  fruits  contain  acid  or  that  acid  be  added  to 
the  fruit  juice  when  jelly  is  being  made.  Most  fruits  which  are 
good  for  jelly-making  contain  sufficient  acid,  but  occasionally 
quinces  and  berries  do  not  have  sufficient  acid  present.  If  the 
juice  of  these  fruits  is  then  combined  with  the  juice  of  apples  or 
other  tart  fruit,  they  can  be  made  into  good  jellies. 

Sugar  in  jellies — ^While  sugar  is  not  necessary  to  the  solidi- 
fying of  fruit  juice,  it  is  necessary  to  add  sugar  to  render  the 
jelly  palatable.  The  amount  of  sugar  may  be  varied  within 
certain  limits  according  to  the  flavor  of  the  fruit.    The  quantity 


83 


of  sugar  used  will  vary  from  one-half  as  much  sugar  as  juice  to 
equal  parts  of  sugar  and  juice.  More  sugar  than  juice  is  apt 
to  interfere  with  the  formation  of  the  jelly  and  a  syrupy  sub- 
stance result. 

Cooking  the  jelly — The  juice  is  best  extracted  from  the  fruit 
by  cooking.  With  soft  fruits  practically  no  water  needs  be 
added.  With  apples  and  quinces  it  is  necessary  to  cover  the 
fruit  with  water  in  order  that  the  pectin  may  be  drawn  out. 
After  the  fruit  has  been  cooked  sufficiently  to  soften  the  pulp  and 
draw  out  the  juices,  it  should  be  strained  through  a  flannel  or 
muslin  bag  or  a  bag  made  of  two  thicknesses  of  cheese-cloth. 
Two  or  three  hours  will  be  sufficient  time  to  allow  for  straining, 
then  the  juice  should  be  reheated.  If  much  water  has  been  added 
when  extracting  the  juice,  or  if  the  fruit  contains  much  water,  it 
should  be  boiled  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  to  evaporate  excess 
of  water  before  adding  the  sugar.  After  the  sugar  has  been 
added,  it  should  not  be  necessary  to  cook  the  juice  more  than 
eight  or  ten  minutes  before  the  jellying  point  is  reached.  The 
best  jelly  results  when  only  a  small  amount  of  juice  is  cooked 
at  one  time  (not  more"  than  3  cups). 

Test  for  jelly — The  juice  is  ready  to  form  a  jelly  when  it 
begins  to  sheet  from  the  spoon,  that  is,  when  the  spoon  is  dipped 
into  the  jelly  and  raised  above  it  two  drops  will  come  from  the 
edge  of  the  spoon  at  the  same  time.  The  jelly  should  then  be 
quickl}^  removed  from  the  fire  and  poured  into  sterilized  glasses. 

Fruit  best  for  jelly  making — The  fruits  which  make  the 
best  jellies  are  apples,  crab-apples,  quinces,  green  grapes^  red 
currants,  plums,  gooseberries,  and  firm,  hard  berries  such  as 
blackberries,  dewberries,  and  logan  berries.  These  same  fruits 
do  not  make  a  good  jelly  if  they  are  not  sour;  therefore  it  is 
often  necessary  to  combine  one  fruit  with  another  fruit  that 
contains  more  acid. 


84 


To  Make  Jelly 

Pick  the  fruit  over  carefully  and  wash  it  thoroughly.  Re- 
move any  decayed  or  imperfect  portions,  but  do  not  discard  the 
skins  and  sound  cores  because  of  the  presence  of  pectin  in  those 
portions.  Cut  up  large  fruits  and,  if  hard,  add  sufficient  water 
to  cover  them.  No  water  need  be  added  to  soft  fruits.  Cook 
the  fruit  until  tender.  Pour  into  a  jelly  bag  and  strain.  Reheat 
the  strained  juice,  boiling  it  long  enough  to  evaporate  any  excess 
of  water  (15  to  20  minutes),  then  add  the  sugar,  and  cook  from 
8  to  10  minutes  longer.  Test  (see  test  for  jelly).  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  pour  into  sterilized  jelly  glasses.  When  cold  cover 
with  a  thin  sheet  of  melted  paraffin,  then  put  the  tin  top  over 
the  jelly  glass  or  draw  a  clean  paper  neatly  over  the  top.  Label 
the  jelly  glass  neatly  with  the  name  of  the  fruit  and  the  date. 
When  jelly  is  used,  paraffin  may  be  washed  and  reserved  for  use 
another  time. 

Canned  Fruit  Juice   for  Jelly  Making 

When  sugar  is  scarce  or  high  in  price,  the  juice  of  fruit 
may  be  extracted  as  for  jelly  and  canned  for  winter  use.  Fill 
sterilized  jars  with  the  boiling  juice.  Place  rubbers  and  caps  in 
position.  Sterilize  in  hot-water  bath  15  minutes.  Remove 
from  boiler.    Seal,  invert  to  test,  mark  and  store. 

When  ready  to  use  as  jelly,  the  jars  can  be  opened,  the 
juice  reheated,  sugar  added,  and  jelly  made  in  the  usual  man- 
ner. Many  housewives  prefer  to  prepare  their  jellies  fresh  in  this 
way  throughout  the  winter. 

Apple  Jelly 

4  quarts  apples  2  quarts  water  for  fall  apples 

1  pound  sugar  to  or 

1  quart  juice  3  quarts  water  for  winter 

apples 
Cook  the  apples  till  soft  but  not  mealy.    Pour  into  flannel 


85 


bag.  Press  lightly,  but  not  to  make  the  pulp  come  through. 
Boil  the  juice  20  minutes.  Stir  in  the  sugar  quickly,  dissolve, 
strain  the  jelly  again.  Boil  until  two  drops  come  from  the  spoon 
at  the  same  time  in  two  different  places.  Pour  into  sterilized 
glasses.  When  cool,  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  melted  paraffin 
and  a  tin  or  paper  cover.     Label  and  store. 

Blackberry  Jelly 

Follow  the  recipe  for  dewberry  jelly. 

Crab-Apple  Jelly 

Remove  the  blossoms  and  all  decayed  portions  from  the 
fruit;  if  large,  cut  into  pieces,  but  do  not  pare  or  remove  the 
seeds.  Cover  with  cold  water.  Cook  until  the  crab-apples  are 
soft.  Drain,  first  in  a  colander,  then  in  a  jelly  bag.  Use  the 
juice  only  and  do  not  press  the  bag  except  for  a  second-grade 
jelly.  To  1  cup  of  juice,  use  ^  cup  sugar.  Boil  the  juice  slowly 
for  15  minutes;  add  the  sugar  and  boil  for  5  minutes,  skimming 
as  often  as  necessary.  Test.  Pour  into  jelly  glasses  and  when 
hard  cover  with  melted  paraffin.  Put  a  tin  cover  over  the  glass, 
mark,  and  store. 

Currant  Jelly 

Follow  recipe  for  grape  jelly. 

Dewberry  Jelly 

Wash  berries  by  placing  them  in  a  strainer  or  colander  and 
pouring  water  gently  through  them.  Crush  and  let  berries 
simmer  5  to  10  minutes  to  extract  juice.  Pour  into  a  jelly  bag 
and  let  drain  into  an  open  crock.  Cook  a  small  quantity  at  a 
time.  When  juice  comes  to  the  boiling  point,  add  sugar,  using 
^  cup  sugar  to  every  cup  of  juice.  Cook  until  two  drops  come 
from  a  spoon  in  two  different  places  at  the  same  time.  Remove 
from  fire  at  once  and  pour  into  sterilized  jelly  glasses.  Cool 
jelly  in  the  sun  if  possible,   as  this  gives   a   clearer  product. 


86 


When  cool,  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  paraffin  and  a  tin  cover 
or  paper  to  protect  jar  from  dust.    Mark  and  store. 

Grape  Jelly 

Pick  grapes  when  under  ripe.  Remove  from  stems,  pick- 
ing them  over  carefully.  Wash  by  placing  in  a  strainer  or 
colander,  pouring  water  gently  through  them.  Crush  and  sim- 
mer grapes  5  to  10  minutes  to  extract  juice.  Pour  into  a  jelly 
bag  and  let  drain  into  an  open  crock.  Measure  and  use  1  cup 
of  sugar  to  each  cup  of  juice,  adding  the  sugar  after  the  juice 
has  begun  to  boil.  Cook  rapidly  until  two  drops  come  from 
the  spoon  in  two  different  places  at  the  same  time.  Remove  from 
fire  at  once  and  pour  into  sterilized  jelly  glasses.  When  cool, 
cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  paraffin  and  a  tin  cover  or  paper  to 
protect  jar  from  dust.     Mark  and  store. 

Loganberry  Jelly 

Follow  the  recipe  for  dewberry  jelly. 

Plum    Jelly 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  plums  well,  removing  the  stems. 
Put  into  a  kettle  and  add  just  enough  water  to  keep  from  burn- 
ing, 1  inch  of  water  to  5  inches  of  fruit.  After  the  skins  have 
burst  and  the  plums  are  tender,  strain  through  a  jelly  bag.  Boil 
the  juice  with  Vs  cup  sugar  for  every  cup  of  juice,  adding  the 
sugar  after  the  juice  has  begun  to  boil.  Cook  rapidly  until  two 
drops  come  from  the  spoon  in  two  different  places  at  the  same 
time.  Remove  from  fire  at  once  and  pour  into  sterilized  jelly 
glasses.  M'hen  cool,  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  paraffin  and  a 
tin  cover  or  paper  to  protect  jar  from  dust.    Mark  and  store. 

Plum  Preserves 

After  the  first  extraction  of  juice  from  the  plums  in  making 
plum  jelly,  the  pulp  may  be  reserved  for  preserves.  When  it  is 
cool  enough  to  handle,  remove  the  seeds,  add  an  equal  portion  of 


87 


sugar,  and  cook  to  proper  consistency  for  plum  preserves.  Pour 
into  sterilized  glasses.  When  cool,  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of 
melted  paraffin.     Cover  to  protect  from  dust.     Mark  and  store. 

Quince    Jelly 

Follow  the  recipe  for  apple  jelly.  If  the  quinces  are  not 
very  sour,  combine  with  tart  apples  when  making  jelly.  Use 
equal  quantities  of  quince  and  apple. 

JAMS,  MARMALADES,  AND  PRESERVES 

Jams,  marmalades,  and  preserves  are  canned  by  the  open- 
kettle  method,  because  it  is  necessary  to  cook  them  long  and 
slowly  with  a  large  amount  of  sugar  in  order  to  evaporate  the 
water  and  secure  the  density  desired.  Bacteria  do  not  grow 
readily  in  a  dense  syrup,  hence  jams,  marmalades,  and  pre- 
serves do  not  spoil  readily,  and  it  is  not  necessary  to  process 
them. 

Apple  Butter 

A  good  apple  butter  may  be  made  from  the  pulp  that  is 
left  after  extracting  the  juice  from  apples  or  crab  apples  when 
making  jelly,  if  some  juice  remains  in  the  pulp.  Put  the  pulp 
through  a  colander  to  remove  skins  and  seeds.  Weigh  pulp  and 
use  the  following  amounts  of  sugar  and  ground  spices  to  every 
5  pounds  of  apple  pulp :  2  pounds  sugar,  ^  tablespoon  allspice, 
Yz  tablespoon  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  cloves.  Add  sugar  and 
spices  to  pulp  and  cook  until  of  desired  thickness.  Stir  fre- 
quently to  prevent  burning.  Test  on  a  cold  saucer.  The  out- 
side surface  of  the  portion  tested  should  show  a  slight  sheen 
upon -standing.  Pour  into  sterilized  jars  or  jelly  glasses.  When 
cool,  cover  with  paraffin,  mark,  and  store. 

Apricot  Marmalade 

Pick  over  the  apricots.  Plunge  them  in  hot  water  for  2 
minutes,  remove  skins,  cut  the  apricots  in  halves,  and  remove 


88 


the  stones.  Weigh  the  fruit  and  allow  Va  of  the  weight  in  sugar. 
Mix  the  fruit  and  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night  to  dissolve  the 
sugar.  In  the  morning  bring,  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  20  to 
30  minutes.  When  the  juice  shows  a  jelly-like  consistency  and 
the  fruit  is  traiisparent,  pour  into  sterilized  jelly  glasses  or  jars. 
When  cool,  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  paraffin  and  a  tin  or 
paper  cover  to  exclude  dust.    Mark  and  store. 

A   small  quantity  of  fresh  pineapple  combined  with  the 
apricots  makes  an  especially  palatable  marmalade. 

Carrot  Marmalade 

4  pounds  carrots  2  lemons,  grated  rind 

8  cups  corn  syrup  1  orange,  juice  and  rind 

3  cups  sugar  3/^  pound  raisins,  chopped 

10  lemons,  juice 
Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots.  Boil  till  tender  and  chop  fine, 
using  a  chopping  knife  and  bowl.  Simmer  the  chopped  carrots 
and  syrup  together  30  minutes;  then  add  the  other  ingredients 
and  cook  until  thick  and  jelly-like.  Put  into  sterilized  jelly 
glasses.    Cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  paraffin.    Mark  and  store. 

Currant  Conserve 

5  oranges  5  pounds  sugar 

5  pounds  currants  or  2  pounds  raisins 

gooseberries 
Boil  the  rind  of  3  oranges  until  tender,  scrape  out  the  bitter 
white  portion,  and  slice  the  yellow  rind.    Combine  the  currants, 
sugar,  orange  pulp,  chopped  rind,  and  raisins,  and  boil  all  to- 
gether 20  minutes.    Turn  into  sterilized  jars;  seal  at  once. 

Fig  Preserves 

3  pounds  whole  ripe  figs  1  or  2  pieces  ginger  root 

3  pounds  sugar  1  lemon,  juice  and  rind 

1  pint  water  1  orange,  juice  and  rind 

Put  the  figs  into  a  boiling  soda  solution  (1  cup  soda  to  6 


89 


quarts  boiling  water)  and  let  stand  for  5  minutes.  Drain  off 
the  soda  solution  and  wash  figs  thoroughly  in  two  baths  of 
cold  water. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water,  add  the  ginger  root  and  cleaned 
figs,  and  cook  the  figs  until  very  tender.  Add  orange  and 
lemon  juice  and  rind.  Boil  a  few  minutes  longer,  fill  sterilized 
jars,   and  seal.     Mark  and  store. 

Grape  Jam 

1  basket  ripe  grapes  Sugar 

Remove  the  grapes  from  the  stem.  Wash  them  and  press 
the  pulp  from  the  skins.  Boil  the  pulp  until  it  will  separate 
from  the  seeds.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  the  skins  to  the 
pulp  and  boil  with  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  for  15  minutes. 
Put  into  sterilized  jars  and  seal  at  once.    Mark  and  store. 

Green-Tomato   Mince   Meat    (Cold-Pack   Method) 

1  peck  green  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  salt 

1  pound  beef  suet  2  tablespoons  ground 
Yz  cup  vinegar  cinnamon 

2  cups  chopped  aj^ples  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

2  pounds  raisins  2  teaspoons  ground  nutmeg 

2^  pounds  brown  sugar 
Slice  tomatoes  very  thin  or  put  through  a  food  chopper. 
Drain ;  cover  with  cold  water ;  place  over  fire  and  boil  5  minutes. 
Drain  well;  add  suet,  vinegar,  fruit,  sugar,  and  seasonings. 
Return  to  fire  and  simmer  35  to  45  minutes.  Pack  hot  into 
sterilized  jars  and  cook  in  hot-water  bath  15  minutes.  Remove, 
seal,  invert  to  test,  mark,  and  store  for  future  use. 

Orange  or  Grape    Fruit  Marmalade 

15  oranges  or  grapefruit  Sugar 

3  lemons 

Wash,  pare,  and  weigh  the  fruit,  remove  the  peel  in  quar- 
ters, reserving  it  for  use,  cut  or  shred  the  fruit  fine,  keeping  the 


90 


seeds  separate.  Add  1  quart  water  to  1  pound  fruit,  reserving 
from  the  entire  quantity  of  water  1  pint  for  seeds.  Let  this 
stand  36  hours  covered;  stir  occasionally.  Strain  the  water 
from  the  seeds  and  add  it  to  the  fruit  ;boil  this  mixture  down  one- 
half.  Cook  the  peel  until  soft  in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover; 
drain;  remove  the  white  part  by  scraping  with  a  spoon.  Cut  the 
thin  yellow  rind  in  strips,  using  a  pair  of  scissors.  Add  to  the 
marmalade  1  hour  before  it  has  finished  boiling.  When  the 
marmalade  is  cool  enough,  measure,  and  to  every  pint  of  fruit 
add  1  pound  of  sugar,  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time.  Boil  steadily 
20  to  30  minutes,  or  until  the  mixture  jellies.  Pour  the  mar- 
malade into  sterilized  jars  and  seal.    Mark  and  store. 

Peach  Jam 

2  pounds  peaches  1  inch  ginger  root 

^  teaspoon  allspice  1  sprig  mace 

2  teaspoons  stick  cinnamon         1  pound  sugar 
1  teaspoon  cloves 

Wash,  peel,  and  slice  the  peaches.  Reserve  and  crack  one 
stone.  Tie  the  spices  and  peach  seed  in  a  cheese-cloth  bag. 
Cook  all  materials  together  until  sufficiently  thickened  (about 
30  to  50  minutes).  A  good  test  is  to  place  a  small  amount  on 
a  saucer  and  when  pushed  to  one  side  with  a  spoon  a  wrinkled 
appearance  should  result.  Pour  into  sterilized  glasses.  Cover 
with  a  thin  layer  of  melted  paraffin.  Cover  with  a  tin  lid  or 
paper  cover.     Mark  and  store. 

Pineapple  Marmalade 

1  cup  pineaj)ple,  shredded  1  lemon,  juice  and  rind 

or  cut  in  small  pieces  7  cups  sugar 

6  cups  rhubarb,  sliced  in  2  tablespoons  blanched 

Yz  inch  pieces  almonds,  chopped 
Boil  the  pineapple  and  rhubarb  together  10  minutes,  then 

add  the  lemon  juice  and  rind,  sugar,  and  almonds,  and  boil 
until  thick,  ^  hour  or  more. 


91 


Pour  the  marmalade  into  sterilized  jars  and  seal  at  once. 
Mark  and  store. 

Pear  Preserves 

2  pounds  pears  1  lemon 

iy2  pounds  sugar  4  pieces  ginger  root 

2  cups  water 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water,  adding  the  ginger 
root  and  the  lemon  rind  cut  in  thin  strips. 

Pare  and  core  the  pears,  cutting  them  into  halves,  quar- 
ters, or  eighths.  If  the  pears  are  hard,  boil  them  first  in  clear 
water  until  they  can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork. 

Add  the  lemon  and  the  pears  to  the  syrup  and  cook  until 
the  pears  are  tender  and  clear.  Pack  into  sterilized  jars,  cover 
with  the  syrup,  seal,  test,  and  mark. 

Pineapple  Preserves 

1  pineapple  Sugar 

Select  ripe  pineapple,  split  with  a  wooden  stick  and  re- 
move little  sections,  or  pare  and  shred  with  a  silver  fork.  To 
each  pound  of  fruit,  add  ^^  pound  sugar.  Heat  slowly  and  cook 
till  tender  and  transparent.  Put  into  jars  and  seal  at  once. 
Mark  and  store. 

Plum  Butter 
Follow  recipe  for  plum  preserves,  putting  pulp  through  a 
sieve  before  adding  sugar. 

Plum  Preserves 

See  recipe  for  plum  jelly 

Quince    Preserves 

6  pounds  prepared  quinces  1  quart  water  in  which  the 

5  pounds  sugar  quinces  were  cooked 

Wipe,  quarter,  pare,   and  core  the  quinces  and  save  the 

parings  and  cores  for  jelly.     Cook  the  quinces  in  water  until 

very  tender.     Drain  carefully  and  use  the  water  to  make   a 


92 


syrup  with  the  sugar.  Add  the  fruit  to  the  syrup  and  cook 
slowly  for  3  hours,  or  until  the  quinces  are  dark  red.  Put  into 
sterilized  jars  and  seal  at  once.     Mark  and  store. 

Spiced  Gooseberries 

2  pounds  gooseberries  1  tablespoon  whole  cloves 

1  cup  vinegar  1  tablespoon  stick  cinnamon 

1^  pounds  sugar 
Cook  all  together  steadily  40  minutes,  or  until  reduced  to 
a  marmalade.     Pour  into  sterilized  bottles  and  seal. 

Strawberry  Jam 

1  pound  starwberries  1  pound  sugar 

Wash  and  hull  the  berries.  Cover  with  sugar  and  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  cook 
20  minutes.  Pour  into  sterilized  glasses.  When  cool,  cover 
with  a  thin  layer  of  paraffin.     Mark  and  store. 

Sun-Preserved    Berries 

Wash  and  weigh  berries  which  have  been  freshly  picked. 
Cover  the  berries  with  an  equal  amount  of  sugar  and  let  them 
stand  over  night  so  that  the  sugar  will  all  be  dissolved.  Let 
stand  in  cool  place  so  as  not  to  ferment.  The  next  morning 
bring  to  boiling  point  and  boil  10  minutes.  Pour  into  platters 
or  shallow  porcelain  or  enamel  dishes  not  more  than  1  inch  in 
depth.  Cover  with  a  piece  of  glass.  Moisture  will  gather  on 
the  under  side  of  the  glass.  This  should  be  wiped  off  occasion- 
ally. The  preserves  should  be  placed  in  the  sun  until  the 
thickness  desired  is  obtained.  This  is  dependent  upon  the 
time  of  the  day  and  the  intensity  of  the  sun.  The  preserves 
should  be  brought  in  at  night-fall  and  set  out  the  next  morning 
if  not  thick  enough.  Eight  hours  should  finish  the  preserves. 
If  weather  becomes  rainy,  finish  in  a  slightly-warmed  oven. 
Do  not  remove  the  glass  and  expose  to  the  air.  Place  in  steril- 
ized glasses  and  cover  with  paraffin.     Mark  and  store. 


93 


Raspberries,  dewberries,  blackberries,  cherries,  straw- 
berries, or  a  combination  of  currants  and  red  raspberries,  or  a 
combination  of  rhubarb  and  red  raspberries  may  be  prepared  in 
this  way. 

In  order  to  protect  the  preserves  from  ants,  the  legs  of  the 
stand  on  which  they  are  placed  should  be  put  into  four  sauce- 
dishes  of  water. 

Watermelon-Rind  Preserves 

1  pound  melon  rind  1  pound  sugar 

1  ounce  lime  1  lemon 

2  quarts  water 

Cut  rind  in  ^  inch  squares.  Remove  peel  and  all  pink 
part,  and  weigh.  Soak  over  night  in  lime  water.  The  follow- 
ing morning  allow  rind  to  stand  for  2  hours  in  clear  water. 
Drain  well,  then  drop  into  boiling  water  and  cook  rapidly  for 
10  minutes.  Drain  again  and  add  gradually  to  syrup  made  of 
sugar  and  1  quart  of  water.  Add  to  this  the  juice  of  ^  lemon 
and  three  extra  slices  of  lemon,  and  cook  until  the  rind  is  clear 
and  transparent.  Allow  to  stand  covered  with  syrup  until 
cool.  Then  arrange  attractively  in  jars,  garnishing  with  the 
slices  of  lemon.     Seal,  mark,   and  store. 

Yellow-Tomato   Preserves 

1  pound  ripe  yellow  tomatoes       1  stick  ginger  root 
(weighed  after  skinning)  1  lemon,  juice  and  rind 

1  pound  granulated  sugar 
Scald,  skin  and  weigh  the  tomatoes.    Add  sugar  and  ginger 

root  and  boil  2  hours,  then  add  the  lemon  juice   and  rind; 

boil  ^  hour;  pour  into  sterilized  jars,  seal  at  once,  mark  and 

store. 

FRUIT  JUICES 

When  some  fruits  which  contain  a  large  amount  of  juice  are 
very  abundant  the  juices  may  be  extracted  and  bottled  for  use 


94 


in  preparing  refreshing  beverages.  These  fruit  juices  may  also 
be  used  for  flavoring  desserts,  such  as  puddings,  ice  creams,  and 
sherbets,  and  in  making  pudding  sauces. 

Grape  Juice 

Pick  ripe  Concord  grapes  from  the  stem.  Wash  the  grapes, 
crush,  and  heat  them,  stirring  them  all  the  time.  When  broken, 
pour  into  a  jelly  bag  and  allow  the  juice  to  drip  from  the  grapes. 
Measure  it  and  add  one-fourth  the  amount  of  sugar.  Cook  the 
juice  and  sugar  until  they  reach  the  boiling  point.  Put  into 
sterilized  bottles,  cork,  and  seal  immediately  with  bottle  wax  or 
paraffin.   Mark  and  store.     Dilute  for  serving. 

Raspberry  Shrub 

Select  sound  fruit.  Pick  it  over  carefully.  Wash,  measure, 
and  pack  in  a  stone  jar.  Use  1  quart  mild  vinegar  to  every  4 
quarts  berries.  Tie  cheese-cloth  over  jar.  Stir  the  mixture  each 
day  for  three  or  four  days.  Do  not  let  it  stand  more  than  3  days 
if  the  weather  is  very  warm.  Strain  without  squeezing,  measure 
juice  and  put  into  a  kettle,  allowing  2  cups  of  sugar  to  every 
pint  of  liquid.  Boil  slowly  5  minutes.  Put  into  sterilized 
bottles.  Cork  and  dip  into  paraffin  or  bottle  wax.  Dilute  with 
cold  water  for  serving. 

Strawberries,  blackberries,  and  dewberries  may  be  used  in 
the  same  way. 

BOTTLE  WAX 

To  seal  corked  bottles 
Mix  together  equal  parts  of  warm  shoemaker's  wax  and 
resin.     When  liquid,  dip  the  corked  bottles  into  it. 


CANDIES 

SUGAR 

(a)  Sugar  is  used  in  cooking — 

(1)  To  increase  the  carbohydrate  in  the  diet. 

(2)  To  add  flavor  to  other  foods.  ■ 

(3)  To  aid  in  the  preservation  of  other  foods. 

(4)  To  serve  as  the  basis  for  candies  and  cake  frost- 

ings. 

(b)  Sugar  substitutes. 

(1)  Maple   syrup,   molasses,   sorghum,  honey,   com- 

mercial glucose  and  corn  syrup  may  all  be  used 
as  substitutes  for  sugar.  However,  the  syrups 
are  only  from  75  per  cent  to  85  per  cent  as 
sweet  as  sugar  and  must  be  used  in  larger 
quantities  than  sugar  if  the  same  degree  of 
sweetness  is  to  be  secured. 

(2)  Syrups  can  be  substituted  for  sugar  in  frostings 

and  in  all  candies  that  are  not  to  be  crystallized, 
such  as  molasses  candy  and  pulled  white 
candy.  In  candies  that  are  to  be  crystallized, 
syrups  can  be  substituted  for  sugar  to  only  a 
limited  extent  with  the  exception  of  maple 
syrup  which  readily  crystallizes  when  boiled 
down.  One  part  of  syrup  to  three  parts  of 
sugar  can  safely  be  substituted  in  all  candies. 
When  some  syrups  are  used  even  a  higher  rate 
of  substitution  is  possible. 

(c)  Methods  of  cooking  sugar. 

(1)  By  dry  heat,  as  in  the  preparation  of  caramel. 

(2)  By  boiling  with  water — as  in  making  syrups. 

(3)  By  boiling  with  acids — whereby  it  is  converted 

95 


96 


into  a  substance  which  is  only  half  as  sweet  as 
cane  sugar  and  which  does  not  crystallize.  For 
this  reason  cream  of  tartar  is  used  in  making 
fondant,  and  vinegar  is  used  in  molasses  candy, 
(d)      Time  for  cooking  syrups. 

The  time  for  cooking  syrups  is  regulated  by  the 
thickness  of  the  syrups  to  be  used.  Thickness 
of  syrups  increases  with  boiling  and  evapora- 
tion. The  temperature  of  syrup  also  rises, 
hence  the  time  for  cooking  of  syrup  may  be 
regulated  by  the  thermometer.  When  cooking 
at  home,  syrup  tests  are  generally  made  by 
dropping  a  few  drops  of  the  syrup  into  cold 
water  to  determine  the  thickness  of  the  syrup 
when  cold.  The  relation  between  the  two  tests' 
is  given  below. 

Syrup  Tests 

Soft  Ball  238  degrees,  used  for  boiled  frosting  and 

fondant. 
Hard  Ball  260  degrees,  used  for  nougat. 

Crack  310  degrees,  used  for  molasses  candy 

Caramel  350  degrees,  used  for    flavoring     and     for 

peanut  brittle. 
Dark  Caramel      400  degrees,    used    for    coloring    gravies, 

soups,  etc. 

Butter    Scotch 

1  cup  molasses  ^  cup  butter 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

Yk  cup  water 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  thoroughly  and  boil  them  until  the 
syrup  is  brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water.    Then  pour  into  a 
buttered  pan,  cool,  and  mark  in  squares  or  break  in  pieces  for 
serving.    Serves  16  to  20. 


97 


Candied    Orange   Peel 

1  orange  peel  ^  cup  sugar  or  syrup 

y^  cup  water  in  which  orange  was  cooked 

Wipe  orange  and  remove  peel  in  quarters.  Cut  in  narrow 
strips  and  remove  surplus  white.  Cook  in  boiling  water  until 
tender,   changing   water   several   times.      Drain  well. 

Make  syrup  with  ^  cup  of  the  last  water  used,  and  the 
sugar.  If  syrup  is  used,  no  water  need  be  added.  When  the 
sugar  is  all  dissolved  add  orange  rind,  and  cook  slowly  until 
most  of  the  water  has  evaporated.  Drain  the  rind,  and  roll 
each  piece  in  granulated  sugar.    Serves  12  to  16. 

Caramels 

2  cups  sugar  1  pint  cream 

%  cup  glucose  ^  cup  pecans 

^  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Combine  sugar,  glucose,  butter,  and  1  cup  cream  and 
heat  until  it  boils  thorcjlughly.  Add  remainder  of  cream 
gradually  stirring  it  in  not  to  stop  boiling.  Stir  every  three 
or  four  minutes,  cooking  till  it  reaches  the  temperature  of 
252  degrees,  or  a  firm  hard  ball  is  formed  in  cold  water. 
Add  nuts  and  vanilla  and  turn  into  buttered  pans  to  make  a 
sheet  ^  inch  thick.    When  cold  cut  in  cubes,  let  dry  -24  hours. 

Caramel   Fudge 

2  cups  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  milk  ^  cup  nuts,  broken  up 

cup  caramelized  sugar 

Boil  sugar  and  milk  together,  add  caramelized  sugar  and 
butter,  and  boil  to  the  soft  ball  stage.  Take  from  fire  and  heat 
until  the  candy  becomes  creamy.  Add  nuts  and  turn  into 
buttered  pans;  when  cool  cut  into  squares.    Serves  16  to  20. 

Caramel    Syrup 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  cup  boiling  water 


98 


Melt  sugar  in  a  smooth  pan,  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  be- 
comes a  deep,  dark  brown  (400  degrees  F.).  Add  the  boiling 
water  and  cook  slowly  until  the  hardened  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Cool,  bottle,  and  keep  tightly  corked. 

Uses    for    Caramel 

Caramel  (cooked  sugar)  may  be  used  for  candies,  nut  brit- 
tle, glace,  etc. 

Caramel  may  be  made  into  syrup  and  used  as  a  sauce,  or 
it  may  be  substituted  for  sugar  (1^  cup  caramel  for  1  cup 
sugar)  to  sweeten  and  flavor  sweet  dishes  (custards,  puddings, 
frostings,  ice  cream,  etc.) 

Caramel  which  is  very  dark  may  be  made  into  a  syrup  and 
used  to  color  gravies,  soups,  and  invalid  dishes,  i.  e.  cereals, 
corn  starch  puddings,  etc.,  (1  tablespoon  caramel  to  1  pint). 

Divinity 

See  Nougat. 

Double  Fudge 

Prepare  one  recipe  chocolate  fudge,  pour  into  a  shallow 
pan  to  form  a  layer  one-half  inch  thick.  Over  this  pour  a 
layer  of  freshly  prepared  pinoche  of  equal  thickness.  When 
firm  cut  in  squares. 

Fondant 

2  cups  sugar  }i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

y^  cup  boiling  water 
Put  ingredients  into  smooth  sauce  pan,  stir  and  heat 
gradually  to  the  boiling  point,  then  boil  without  stirring  until, 
when  tried  in  cold  water,  a  soft  ball  may  be  formed  (at  which 
time  syrup  will  be  238  degrees  F).  Pour  upon  oiled  marble 
slab  or  buttered  plate  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes  to  cool,  but 
not  long  enough  to  grow  hard  about  the  edges,  (to  from  90  de- 
grees to  100  degrees)  then  work  with  wooden  spoon  until  white 
and   creamy.      When   fondant   begins   to    form   lumps,    knead 


99 


quickly  with  the  hands  until  perfectly  creamy.  Pack  in  bowl, 
cover  with  oiled  paper,  and  let  stand  24  hours,  after  which 
flavor,  color,  and  shape  as  desired.  During  cooking  sugar  will 
adhere  to  side  of  saucepan,  this  should  be  washed  off  with 
fingers  or  cloth  dipped  in  cold  water.     Serves  30. 

Uses  for  Fondant 

Fondant  is  used  as  a  basis  for  many  candies,  to  stuff  dried 
fruits  and  to  frost  small  cakes. 

For  candy  the  finished  fondant  is  flavored,  colored,  and 
shaped  as  desired.  Nuts  are  often  put  on  top  of  each  piece  or 
two  halves  of  the  nuts  may  be  used  and  one-half  put  on  each 
side  of  the  candy.  The  fondant  may  be  worked  up  with  chopped 
nuts  or  candied  fruits  and  cut  in  cubes.  Chocolate  drops  may 
be  made  by  dipping  the  shaped  fondant  into  melted  chocolate. 

Peppermint  drops  may  be  made  by  remelting  the  fondant 
after  it  has  been  flavored  with  peppermint  and  dropping  it  on 
to  paraffin  paper  in  the  shapes  desired. 

Fondant  may  be  used  with  stuffed  dates,  figs,  or  prunes. 
For  stuffed  dates,  wash  the  dates,  cut  open  lengthwise,  remove 
stone  and  insert  a  small  piece  of  fondant  rolled  to  resemble  the 
date  stone.  Chopped  nuts  or  peanut  butter  may  be  added  to  the 
fondant.  After  stuffing,  roll  dates  in  granulated  or  powdered 
sugar. 

To  frost  small  cakes,  remelt  the  fondant  in  a  double  boiler 
after  it  has  been  flavored  and  kneaded.  When  it  is  thoroughly 
melted,  dip  in  the  small  cakes  from  the  end  of  a  fork  so  that 
the  frosting  will  entirely  cover  the  top  and  partially  cover  the 
sides.  It  will  be  necessary  to  work  quickly  and  to  stir  the  fon- 
dant occasionally  for  it  will  have  a  tendency  to  become  too  thick. 
The  top  of  each  cake  may  be  decorated  with  a  piece  of  blanched 
almond  or  candied  fruit. 


100 


Fudge 

2  cups  sugar  2  squares  chocolate 

1  cup  milk  y2  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Cook  all  the  ingredients  together  slowly,  stirring  until 
sugar  is  all  dissolved.  Then  boil  without  stirring  to  the  soft 
ball  stage,  238  degrees.  Take  from  the  fire,  cool,  and  beat  it 
until  it  begins  to  grow  thick.  Add  vanilla.  Turn  into  a  well- 
buttered  pan,  and  when  cool  cut  into  squares.  Either  granulated 
or  brown  sugar  may  be  used.    Serves  16  to  20. 

Maple  Fudge 

Use  recipe  for  caramel  fudge  substituting  maple  siigar  for 
granulated  sugar  and  omitting  caramelized  sugar. 

Molasses   Candy 

2  cups  molasses  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

Yz  cup  sugar  54  teaspoon  soda 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Put  molasses,  sugar,  and  butter  into  a  thick  sauce  pan  or 
kettle,  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  until  mixture 
becomes  brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Stir  constantly  at  the 
last  to  prevent  burning. 

Add  vinegar  and  soda  just  before  removing  from  fire. 
Pour  into  a  well-buttered  pan  and  let  stand  until   cool 
enough  to  handle.     Then  pull  until  light  and  porous,  and  cut 
in  small   pieces   with   scissors,    arranging   on   buttered   plates. 
Serves  16  to  20. 

Nougat 

2  cups  sugar  5^  cup  cold  water 

Yz  cup  corn  syrup  2  egg  whites 

Y^  cup  chopped  nuts  or  candied  fruits 
Cook  sugar,  syrup,  and  water  together  until  it  is  crisp  in 
cold  water,  260  degrees.     Then  pour  a  drop  at  a  time  over 


101 


beaten  whites  of  eggs,  beating  briskly  until  very  thick.  Add 
chopped  nuts  or  candied  fruits. 

Pour  into  a  well-buttered  pan  and  cut  into  oblong  squares. 
Serves  20  to  24. 

For  divinity  candy  omit  the  nuts  and  fruits  and  drop  the 
beaten  syrup  from  the  spoon  onto  a  buttered  pan  in  individual 
pieces. 

Peanut  Brittle 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  peanuts (1  qt.  with  shells  on) 

Heat  sugar  until  it  melts  and  liquid  becomes  clear,  remove 
immediately,  add  peanuts,  chopped  if  desired,  mixing  them  in 
thoroughly;  quickly  spread  upon  a  smooth  tin  or  iron  sheet, 
press  into  shape  with  knife,  and  cut  into  bars  or  squares. 
Serves  10. 

Peanut  Brittle  (With  Molasses) 

1  cup  molasses  1  cup  roasted  peanuts 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  1  teaspoon  soda 

Boil  the  sugar,  molasses,  and  vinegar  together  until  a  little 
dropped  in  cold  water  is  brittle.  Add  the  butter  and  the  nuts, 
remove  from  the  heat,  beat  in  the  soda,  and  pour  into  greased 
pans.  Spread  very  thin.  Break  into  even  pieces  when  cold. 
Serves  16  to  20. 

Peppermint   Drops 

1  cup  sugar  A  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar 

54  cup  boiling  water  3  drops  oil  of  peppermint 

Boil  sugar,  cream  of  tartar,  and  water  together  slowly 
until  syrup  threads  from  fork.  Pour  it  into  a  bowl  and  add 
flavoring.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken  and  look  cloudy. 
Drop  by  the  spoonful  upon  paraffin  paper.     Serves  12. 


102 
Pinoche 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Yi  cup  cream,  or  ^  cup  milk  1  cup  walnut  meats 
and  1  teaspoon  butter 
Cook  sugar  and  cream  together  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Boil  to  the  soft  ball  stage,  238  degrees.  Take  from  fire,  cool  to 
100  degrees,  then  beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  add  vanilla 
and  chopped  nut  meats  and  turn  into  a  well-buttered  pan.  When 
cool  cut  in  squares. 

Pop-Corn  Balls 

6  to  12  ears  pop-corn  ]/2  cup  sugar,  brown  or  white 

Salt  y2  tablespoon  vinegar 

1  cup  molasses  Y2  tablespoon  butter 

Pop  enough  corn  to  make  3  quarts.     Salt  the  corn.     Boil 

the  molasses,  sugar,  vinegar   and  butter  together  until   almost 

brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water. 

Put  two  thirds  of  the  corn  in  a  large  bowl  and  pour  the 

syrup  quickly  over  it.     Shape  into  large  balls,  using  the  dry 

corn  to  cover  the  outside  so  that  the  balls  will  not  be  sticky. 

Makes  one  dozen  balls. 

Puffed  Rice  Balls 

1  package  puffed  rice. 

Follow  the  recipe  for  pop-corn  balls. 

Salted  Almonds 

1  pt.  water  2  tablespoons  olive  oil  or 

y2  cup  salt  butter 

1  cup  almonds 

Blanch  almonds  by  covering  with  boiling  water  and  re- 
moving skins.  Heat  salt  and  water  and  when  boiling  add  nuts. 
Cook  S  minutes.  Drain  and  place  them  in  a  baking  pan  with 
oil,  or  put  butter  over  them  in  small  pieces,  then  bake  until 
a   delicate  brown,   stirring  frequently.     All  the   fat  should   be 


103 


absorbed.     Pour  on  absorbent  paper  and  leave  till  cool.  Serves 
10  to  12. 

Salted    Peanuts 

If  unroasted  peanuts  are  used,  follow  the  recipe  for 
salted  almonds. 

If  the  peanuts  have  already  been  roasted,  shell  them  and 
rub  off  the  dry  skin.  Place  them  in  a  baking  pan  with  2  table- 
spoons olive  oil  or  butter  for  each  1  cup  of  peanuts,  and  cook  in 
a  moderate  oven  until  the  fat  is  absorbed  and  the  peanuts  are 
evenly  browned.  It  will  be  necessary  to  stir  them  frequently. 
At  the  last  sprinkle  them  well  with  salt  and  put  them  on  ab- 
sorbent paper  to  cool. 

White   Pulled   Candy 

2  cups  sugar  ^  cup  water 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  the  sugar,  vinegar,  and  water  and  boil  until  the  syrup 
is  brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Pour  onto  a  buttered  platter 
and  when  cool  enough  to  handle  pull  until  white  and  glossy 
making  it  as  light  in  texture  as  possible.  Flavor  while  it  is 
still  soft.  Cut  in  pieces  on  greased  plates  to  chill.  Servies 
10  to  12. 


CEREALS 

Cereals  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place  protected  from  the 
moisture  of  the  air.  As  a  rule  they  do  not  spoil  readily  unless 
warm  and  damp. 

Before  using,  cereals  should  be  carefully  examined  to  make 
sure  that  they  are  in  good  condition. 

The  purpose  of  cooking  cereals  is: — (1)  to  soften  the 
cellulose;  (2)  to  cook  the  starch;  (3)  to  add  water;  (4)  to 
develop  flavor. 

The  time  for  cooking  cereals  is  dependent  on  the  nature  of 
the  cellulose  and  the  form  in  which  the  grain  has  been  prepared. 
The  shortest  time  is  required  for  rice,  then  wheat,  oats,  corn,  in 
order. 

The  term  "mush"  is  applied  to  the  cereal  when  cooked  in 
the  form  of  a  rather  thin  pudding.  "Porridge"  is  thinner  than 
mush.  "Gruds"  are  made  thinner  than  mush  by  the  addition 
of  milk  or  water  and  are  always  strained. 

General  Directions   for  Cooking  Cereals 

Look  grain  over  carefully. 

Measure  grain  and  liquid  accurately.  Amount  of  liquid 
may  be  varied  according  to  consistency  of  mush  desired. 

Salt  the  water,  using  1  teaspoon  salt  to  1  cup  cereal. 

Have  the  water  boiling  as  cereal  is  added. 

Add  cereal  so  slowly  that  bubbling  of  water  may  not  be 
stopped. 

Boil  rapidly  10  to  15  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 

Then  cover  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  or  a  fireless  cooker 
without  stirring  for  remainder  of  time.  Increase  time  for  cook- 
ing two  or  three  hours  if  the  cereal  is  put  in  the  fireless  cooker. 

When  it  is  necessary  to  replenish  water  in  lower  part  of 
double  boiler,  boiling  water  should  be  used. 

104 


105 


Cook  continuously. 

General  directions  will  have  to  be  varied  somewhat  in 
cooking  rice  and  some  of  the  special  cereal  preparations. 

Cold  cooked  cereals  can  always  be  reheated  in  a  double 
boiler  with  the  addition  of  water,  if  necessary,  and  served  as 
freshly  cooked  cereals. 

Methods  of  cooking  cereals  are: — 

(1)  Hot,  with  milk,  cream,   or  butter — with  or  without 

sugar. 

(2)  Cooled  in  molds  and  served  with  cream  as  a  simple 

dessert. 

(3)  Cooled  in  molds,  sliced,  dipped  in  flour  browned  in 

butter  or  other  fat,  served  hot. 

(4)  Cooled,   shaped  into  balls,   and   fried  in   deep   fat. 

Served  with  meat  as  a  vegetable  or  with  sweet  sauce 
as  dessert. 

(5)  Served  with  uncooked  fruit,  such  as  bananas,  berries, 

pineapple,  dates,  etc.;   or  cooked  fruit,  as  apples, 
pears,  etc. 

Table  of  Proportions  and  Time  for  Cooking  Cereals. 

CEREAL  AMOUNT  WATER  TIME 

Corn  meal   1  cup  4  cups  3  hrs.  in  double  boiler 

Cracked  wheat    1  cup  4  cups  3-6  hrs  in  double  boiler 

Cream  of  wheat 1  cup  4-6    cups  40  min.  in  double  boiler 

Farina    1  cup  4-6    cups  40  min.  in  double  boiler 

Hominy  grits    1  cup  4-5    cups  2-3  hrs  in  double  boiler 

Oat  meal,  coarse 1  cup  4  cups  3-4  hrs  in  double  boiler 

Oats,  rolled 1  cup  3  or  4  cups  1^  hrs  in  double  boiler 

Rice,  boiled 1  cup  3  qts.  20-30  min.  in  kettle 

Rice,  steamed   1  cup  2  cups  ^-1  hr.  in  steamer 

Wheatena  or  Wheatlet  1  cup  4  cups  3  hrs.  in  double  boiler 


106 


Cornmeal   Mush 

4  cups  boiling  water  1  cup  cornmeal 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Look  the  cornmeal  over  carefully  and  add  slowly  to  boiling 
salted  water. 

Boil   10  minutes,   stirring  constantly,   then   cook   3    hours 
longer  in  double  boiler.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Cornmeal  Mush  for  Frying 

1  cup  corn  meal  1  cup  cold  water 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  ^  pint  boiling  water 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Look  the  corn  meal  over  carefully.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients, 
add  the  cold  water  and  stir  this  mixture  gradually  into  the 
boiling  water.  Cook  10  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  then  place 
over  boiling  water  in  double  boiler  and  cook  for  several  hours 
(3  to  4  hrs.)  The  best  flavor  is  developed  by  long  cooking.  Pour 
into  a  wet  bread  pan  and  when  cool  cut  into  ^  inch  pieces. 
Dip  slices  in  flour  and  brown  in  a  little  hot  fat.  Fat  tried  out 
from  slices  of  pork  may  be  used.  Slices  of  mush  may  be  dipped 
into  milk  before  dipping  into  flour. 

Other  cold  cooked  cereals  may  be  re-cooked  in  the  same 
way.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Hominy   Grits 

1  cup  hominy  grits  4  cups  water  or  more 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Look  the  hominy  over  carefully  and  add  slowly  to  boiling 
salted  water.  Boil  ten  minutes  stirring  constantly  then  put  over 
hot  water  and  cook  2  to  3  hours  or  put  in  fireless  cooker  for 
5  or  6  hours.  Serve  as  a  breakfast  dish  or  as  a  vegetable  at 
dinner  or  lunch.     Serves  8  to  10. 


Baked  Hominy   Grits 

1  cup  hominy  grits  1  pint  milk 

1^  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs 


107 


Look  the  hominy  over  carefully,  and  add  slowly  to  1  quart 
boiling  salted  water.  Boil  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  constantly, 
then  put  over  hot  water  and  cook  for  2  hours.  Add  1  pint  of 
scalded  milk  to  the  cooked  hominy  and  cook  in  double  boiler 
until  milk  has  been  absorbed.  Beat  the  2  eggs,  add  salt  and  then 
add  the  cooked  hominy,  slowly  beating  it  well  together.  Turn 
into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven.     Serve  hot.     Serves  8  to  10. 

Coarse  Oatmeal  or  Cracked  Wheat 

4  cups  boiling  w^ater  1  cup  coarse  oatmeal  or 

1  teaspoon  salt  cracked  wheat 

Look  the  cereal  over  carefully  and  add  slowly  to  boiling 
salted  water.  Boil  ten  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  and  then. 
cook  3  to  6  hours  over  boiling  water.     Serves  6. 

Rolled  Oats 

3  cups  boiling  water  1  cup  rolled  oats 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Look  the  rolled  oats  over  carefully  and  add  slowly  to 
boiling,  salted  water.  Boil  10  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  then 
cook  in  double  boiler  at  least  1^  hours  longer;  the  best  flavor- 
is  developed  by  longer  cooking.     Serves  6. 

Boiled  Rice 

3  qts.  boiling  water  1  cup  rice 

2  teaspoons  salt 

Pick  rice  over  carefully  and  wash  thoroughly.  Add  it  so 
gradually  to  the  boiling  salted  water  that  the  water  will  not 
stop  boiling.  Partly  cover  and  cook  20  minutes,  or  until  the 
grains  are  soft;  turn  into  a  colander  and  pour  cold  water 
through  it;  drain,  dry,  and  reheat  in  hot  oven  with  door  open. 
Serve  hot  as  a  vegetable  or  as  a  simple  dessert  with  cream  and 
sugar.    Serves  6  to  8. 


108 


Steamed   Rice 

2  cups  boiling  water  1  cup  rice 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Pick  rice  over  carefully  and  wash  thoroughly.  Put  rice, 
water,  and  salt  into  a  bowl  and  place  it  in  a  steamer  over 
rapidly  boiling  water.  Cook  until  rice  is  soft  from  %  to  1  hour. 
Serve  hot  as  a  vegetable  or  as  a  simple  dessert  with  fruit  or 
chocolate  sauce.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Rice   Pudding 

2  cups  cooked  rice  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  milk  ^  cup  raisins 

2  tablespoons  sugar 
Put  the  ingredients  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven  from  one  to  two  hours  stirring  occasionally. 
When  milk  is  nearly  all  absorbed  brown  over  the  top  and  serve 
either  hot  or  cold  with  cream  and  sugar.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Savory  Rice 

2  cups  rice  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

4  tablespoons  fat  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  slices  onion  5^  cup  grated  cheese 

2  cups  strained  tomato 
Boil  rice  in  salted  water.    Cook  onion  in  fat  until  browned. 
Add  cooked  rice  and  brown  slightly.     Add  tomato,  seasonings, 
and  cheese.    Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  until  slightly  brown  on  top. 
Serves  8  to  10. 

Rice   Croquettes 

1  pint  cold  cooked  rice  White  pepper 

(%  cup  uncooked)  Cayenne 

2  or  3  tablespoons  milk  2  tablespoons  chopped 
2  tablespoons  butter  parsley 

y2  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

Warm  the  rice  in  a  double  boiler,  with  enough  of  the  milk 
to  soften  it.  Add  the  butter,  seasonings,  and  beaten  egg.  Cook 
until  the  egg  thickens.     Spread  the  mixture  on  a  shallow  plate 


109 


to  cool,  then  shape  into  balls.  Roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  which 
have  been  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper;  dip  in  beaten  egg, 
and'  roll  in  crumbs  again ;  cook  in  deep  fat  until  brown.  Drain 
on  unglazed  paper.  Serve  hot.  Other  cold  cooked  cereals  may 
be  made  into  croquettes  in  the  same  way.     Serves  8  to  10. 

Rice    Croquettes    with    Syrup 

Omit  pepper,  cayenne,  and  parsley  from  the  recipe  for 
savory  croquettes.     Serve  hot,  with  hot  syrup. 

Scalloped  Rice 

Use  ^  cup  milk  in  the  recipe  for  Rice  Croquettes,  turn  into 
a  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  2  cups  buttered  bread  crumbs 
(2  cups  crumbs  to  2  tablespoons  butter).  Bake  ^  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven.     Serves  8. 

Rice    Cream 

See  Custards. 

Wheatlet,  Wheatena,  Farina,  or  Cream  of  Wheat 

6  cups  boiling  water  1  cup  meal 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Look  the  meal  over  carefully,  then  add  it  slowly  to  boiling 
salted  water  and  boil  10  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  then  cook 
in  double  boiler  ^  hour. 

Yz  cup  dates  may  be  washed,  stoned,  shredded  and  added 
10  minutes  before  the  cereal  is  served.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Cereal  Pudding 

1  cup  fine  cereal  (wheatena,  farina,  or  cream  of  wheat) 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Yz  cup  shredded  dates  or  whole  raisins  or  chopped  figs 
Cook  the  cereal  well  in  4  to  6  cups  of  salted  water.    Add 
the  fruit  just  before  cooking  is  completed.    Turn  into  a  dish  to 
chill  and  serve  cold  with  cream  and  sugar. 


EGGS 

To  be  of  value  in  cooking,  eggs  should  be  fresh  as  the 
flavor  becomes  affected  with  age.  Old  eggs  are  not  so  satis- 
factory for  use  in  cooking  as  fresh  because  in  the  old  egg  it  is 
more  difficult  to  separate  the  white  and  the  yolk,  and  the  white 
is  less  elastic  and  does  not  beat  up  so  well. 

Tests  for  a  fresh  egg: 

(1)  There  is  a  bloom  on  the  shell,  it  does  not  show  a 

shiny  surface. 

(2)  The  contents  of  the  shell  look  clear  when  held  to  the 

light,  the  yolk  shows  in  the  center. 

(3)  The  egg  does  not  rattle  when  shaken. 

(4)  The  fresh  egg  sinks  in  water  and  does  not  float  on  the 

surface. 

The  price  of  eggs  varies  widely  with  the  season.  They  are 
usually  sold  by  the  dozen,  but  they  are  also  sold  by  the  pound, 
as  they  vary  so  greatly  in  size  and  weight.  One  dozen  eggs 
weighs  from  17.5  oz.  to  28  oz. 

Care  of   Eggs 

Eggs  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  If  to  be 
stored  they  may  be  packed,  small  end  down,  in  bran,  salt, 
sand,  or  sawdust;  immersed  in  water  glass,  lime  water,  or  coated 
with  fat.  Eggs  can  be  kept  fresh  several  weeks  if  each  egg  is 
wrapped  separately  in  paper.  Evaporation  and  canning  of  eggs 
are  commercial  methods  of  preservation. 

Eggs  should  be  handled  carefully  so  that  the  membranes 
about  yolk  will  not  be  broken. 

They  should  be  washed  just  before  breaking  for  use. 

Shells  of  eggs  should  be  saved  to  clear  coffee. 

The  left-over  yolk  of  an  egg,  if  unbroken,  may  be  kept 
from  hardening  by  being  covered  with  cold  water  or  with  paraf- 
fin paper.     The  whites  will  keep  a  day  or  two  if  cold. 

110 


Ill 


Cooking  of  Eggs 

Eggs  are  cooked: — 

(1)  To  make  them  more  palatable  as  flavor  is  developed. 

(2)  To  make  them  more  attractive  as  albumen  coagulates 

and  becomes  white. 

(3)  To   improve   the    texture    and    cause   it    to   become 

jelly-like. 

(4)  To  break  up  the  tissue  of  the  egg ( scrambled  eggs 

and  custards). 

(5)  To  make  the  egg  light  by  the  introduction  of   air 

(omelets). 

(6)  To  combine  the  egg  with  other  food  materials 

a.  In   order   to   thicken   or   give   them   consistency 
(soups  and  sauces). 

b.  In  order  to  make  mixtures  light  (cakes,  puddings, 

popovers). 

c.  To   add   flavor   to   other   foods    (puddings    and 

cakes). 

d.  To  add  color  to  other  foods   (puddings,  cakes, 

and  sauces). 

e.  To  increase  the  nutritive  value  of  other  foods 

(soups,  puddings,  and  batters). 

Methods  of  Cooking   Eggs 

(1)  In  hot  water. 

a.  In  shell 

Soft  cooked 
Hard  cooked 

b.  Without  shell 

Poached 

(2)  In  double  boiler,  surrounded  by  water,  combined  with 

milk.    Custards,  scrambled  or  coddled. 


112 


(3)  In  dry  heat  of  oven 

a.  Baked  or  shirred  (unbeaten) 

b.  Souffle  (beaten) 

(4)  In  hot  fat  in  frying  pan. 

a.  Fried  (unbeaten) 

b.  Omelets  (beaten) 

The  protein  present  in  eggs  coagulates  when  heated,  the 
white  at  134  degrees,  the  yolk  at  122  degrees. 

The  best  cooking  temperature  is  160  to  180  degrees. 
Economy  in  Using^  Eggs  in  Cooking 

(1)  If  eggs  are  used  as  a  thickening  in  sauce,  soup,  salad 
dressing,  or  pudding,  they  can  be  replaced  by  flour  or  corn 
starch.  One  whole  egg  can  be  replaced  by  2  tablespoons  flour; 
one  egg  yolk  by  1  tablespoon  flour. 

(2)  If  eggs  are  used  to  make  mixtures  light,  they  can  be 
replaced  in  part  by  baking  powder.  One  teaspoon  baking  powder 
can  be  substituted  for  two  eggs  in  a  butter  cake. 

If  one  cup  of  flour  is  made  light  wholly  by  the  use  of 
eggs,  six  are  necessary.  If  one  cup  of  flour  is  made  light 
wholly  by  the  use  of  baking  powder  two  teaspoons  are  sufficient. 

(3)  In  frostings  and  confectionery,  eggs  can  be  replaced 
by  water,  milk,  and  cream. 

Serving 

Because  eggs  are  altogether  lacking  in  the  carbohydrates 
they  should  always  be  combined  or  served  with  starchy  food. 
Parsley  and  other  pungent  greens  make  attractive  garnishes.  Dry 
toast  or  wafers  are  appropriate  accompaniments  as  they  induce 
thorough  mastication. 

Soft   Cooked   Eggs 

Put  the  eggs  in  boiling  water  sufficient  to  cover,  cover  the 
kettle,  remove  from  the  fire,  but  keep  hot,  and  let  stand  from  5 
to  8  minutes  according  to  the  consistency  desired. 


113 


Hard  Cooked  Eggs 

Put  the  eggs  in  cold  water,  cover,  heat,  and  when  the  water 
boils,  reduce  heat  and  let  them  stand  20  minutes  with  water 
just  below  the  boiling  point,  then  put  into  cold  water  for  a  few 
minutes  to  loosen  the  shells. 

Poached  Eggs 

Break  each  egg  into  a  saucer  carefully,  slip  the  eggs  into 
boiling  water,  decrease  the  heat,  and  cook  5  minutes  or  until 
the  white  is  firm,  and  a  film  has  formed  over  the  yolk.  Take  up 
with  a  skimmer,  drain,  trim  off  rough  edges  and  serve  on  slices 
of  toast.     Season. 

Poached  eggs  are  attractive  covered  with  white  sauce  to 
which  chopped  parsley  has  been  added. 

Baked  or  Shirred  Eggs 

Line  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  buttered  bread  crumbs,, 
break  eggs  into  dish  without  separating,  add  1  tablespoon  milk 
or  cream  for  each  egg.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese,  if  desired;  or  bread  crumbs  may  be  omitted 
and  dish  lined  with  cold  mashed  potatoes.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  till  eggs  are  set. 

Creamed  Eggs 

3  hard  cooked  eggs  6  slices  toast 
1  cup  medium  white  sauce 

Prepare  white  sauce  and  add  hard  cooked  eggs  cut  in 
halves,  slices,  or  chopped,  and  when  hot  serve  on  toast. 

Or  separate  white  and  yolks  of  hard  cooked  eggs,  chop 
w^hite  fine,  add  to  white  sauce,  and  when  hot  serve  on  toast  and 
garnish  with  yolks  run  through  a  sieve  or  ricer.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  '  Serves  4  to  6. 

Scrambled  or  Coddled   Eggs 

4  eggs  2  tablespoons  milk 
1  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  butter 
Pepper 


114 


Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  adding  the  salt,  pepper,  and  milk. 
Melt  the  butter  in  a  sauce  pan.  Add  the  eggs  and  cook  slowly 
until  thickened.  Stir  frequently  and  remove  from  the  heat  as 
soon  as  finished.  Scrambled  or  Coddled  Eggs  are  best  if  cooked 
over  hot  water  for  then  there  is  less  danger  of  over  cooking  them. 
Serves  6. 

OMELETS 

There  are  two  classes  of  omelets,  the  French  or  Creamy 
omelets  in  which  the  eggs  are  beaten  all  together  and  only 
slightly,  and  light  omelet  in  which  the  eggs  are  separated  and 
whites  beaten  stiff  and  cut  and  folded  into  the  yolk  mixture. 
The  light  omelets  include  the  Foamy  Omelet  in  which  the  egg 
is  combined  with  water,  milk  or  other  liquid,  and  the  Omelet 
Souffle,  in  which  the  liquid  used  is  thickened  with  flour,  cooked 
as  in  a  white  sauce,  or  in  the  form  of  softened  bread  crumbs. 

The  omelet  recipes  given  are  for  an  individual  portion.  To 
make  a  large  omelet  multiply  the  quantity  of  each  ingredient  by 
the  number  of  eggs  used.  The  best  results  will  be  obtained  by 
making  an  omelet  of  not  more  than  four  eggs,  as  larger  omelets 
are  difficult  to  cook  thoroughly  and  to  handle  well.  A  two-egg 
omelet  will  serve  three  people.  A  four-egg  omelet  will  serve 
six  people. 

The  omelet  pan  must  be  perfectly  smooth.  Care  must  be 
taken  to  cook  the  omelets  slowly,  at  a  low  temperature  so  that 
the  egg  does  not  become  tough  and  dry,  and  the  bottom  of  the 
omelet  must  be  carefully  watched  for  the  entire  omelet  will  be 
spoiled  if  one  portion  burns. 

Serve  the  omelet  immediately  when  cooked,  as  steam  es- 
capes and  an  omelet  falls  when  cold.  Use  a  fork  or  spoon  in 
serving;  if  an  omelet  is  so  tough  that  it  requires  a  knife  to  cut 
it  the  time  of  cooking  has  been  too  long  or  the  temperature  too 
high.  An  omelet  will  be  more  tender  if  the  number  of  yolks 
exceeds  the  number  of  whites. 


115 


Omelets  are  used  for  breakfast,  luncheon,  supper,  or  as 
simple  desserts. 

Variations   of   the  Omelet 

1.  Serve  with  white  sauce,  tomato  sauce,  or  oyster  sauce. 

2.  Serve  with  a  garnish  of  chopped  parsley,  olives,  green 
peppers,  cooked  peas,  green  beans,  or  asparagus  tips. 

3.  Use  bacon  fat  in  an  omelet  pan  and  serve  omelet  with 
a  garnish  of  crisp  bacon. 

4.  Before  folding  omelet,  spread  with  chopped  ham, 
tongue,  mushrooms,  grated  cheese,  broiled  oysters,  or  cooked 
vegetables. 

5.  In  place  of  milk  or  cold  water  use  1  tablespoon  hot 
water  to  each  egg,  or  4  tablespoons  white  sauce,  or  2  tablespoons 
bread  crumbs  softened  in  milk,  or  4  tablespoons  tomato  sauce. 

6.  Add  grated  cheese,  or  chopped  tongue,  parsley,  onions, 
or  chopped  asparagus  to  yolk  mixture. 

7.  Turn  the  omelet  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake 
in  the  oven,  serve  in  dish. 

8.  Substitute  sugar (1  tablespoon  to  each  egg)  for  salt  and 
pepper,  fruit  juice  or  caramel  syrup  for  milk,  and  serve  with 
jelly  or  a  sweet  sauce,  grated  pineapple,  or  sliced  oranges,  or 
cover  with  powdered  sugar  and  score  with  a  hot  poker  to  cara- 
melize sugar. 

9.  Souffles  are  a  variation  of  the  omelet. 

Creamy  Omelet 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  milk 

j4  teaspoon  salt  ^  teaspoon  butter 

Pepper 

Beat  the  egg  slightly,  add  the  milk  and  seasonings;  put 
butter  in  the  hot  omelet  pan,  when  melted  turn  in  the  mixture; 
as  it  cooks  draw  the  edges  toward  the  center  until  the  whole  is 
of  a  creamy  consistency;  brown  quickly  underneath;  fold  and 
turn  onto  a  hot  platter.     Serve  at  once.     Serves  1. 


116 


To  serve  several  people,  multiply  each  ingredient  by  the 
number  of  eggs  used.    Also  called  French  Omelet. 

Foamy  Omelet 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  milk  or  water 

%  teaspoon  salt  j4  teaspoon  butter 

Cayenne  or  white  pepper 

Beat  the  yolk  of  the  egg  until  creamy,  add  the  seasonings 
and  milk;  beat  the  white  until  stiff,  but  not  dry,  cut  and  fold 
into  the  yolk  carefully  with  the  flat  egg  beater;  heat  an  omelet 
pan,  rub  bottom  and  sides  with  the  butter,  turn  in  the  omelet, 
spread  it  evenly  on  the  pan.  Cook  gently  over  heat  until  the 
omelet  is  set  and  evenly  browned  underneath;  put  it  into  a  hot 
oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  dry  slightly  on  top;  fold  and  serve 
immediately.    Serves  1. 

To  serve  several  people  multiply  each  ingredient  by  the 
number  of  eggs  used. 

Omelet  Souffle 

y^  tablespoon  butter  ^  cup  milk 

^2  tablespoon  flour  1  egg 

}i  teaspoon  salt  ^  teaspoon  butter 

Pepper 
Make  a  white  sauce ;  separate  the  yolk  and  white  of  the  egg, 
and  beat  them  until  light;  when  white  sauce  is  cool,  add  the 
yolk,  and  cut  in  the  white  with  the  flat  egg  beater.  Cook  in 
the  same  way  as  Foamy  Omelet  or  follow  directions  for  baked 
omelet.  .  Serves  1. 

Baked  Omelet 

Prepare  the  recipe  for  Omelet  Souffle.  Turn  into  a  but- 
tered baking  dish,  place  the  dish  in  a  pan  containing  hot  water 
and  bake  slowly  20  to  30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  If  a 
heavy  earthen  baking  dish  is  used  it  need  not  be  placed  in  hot 
water. 


117 


Spanish  Omelet 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Creamy  omelet  using  four  eggs  and 
serve  with  a  well  seasoned  tomato  sauce  in  the  center  and 
around  the  omelet. 

Use  half  the  recipe  for  tomato  puree  given  in  the  book, 
and  add  one  finely  chopped  green  pepper.  Do  not  strain. 
Just  before  serving,  two  tablespoons  chopped  pickles  may  be 
added  to  the  sauce.     Serves  6. 

SOUFFLES 

Souffles  are  preparations  which  are  "puffed  up"  or  made 
light  by  the  presence  of  whites  of  eggs.  They  are  much  used  as 
entrees  and  may  be  either  savory  or  sweet  in  character.  Souffles 
are  a  variation  of  the  foamy  omelet. 

The  foundation  for  a  souffle  is  usually  a  white  sauce  to 
which  is  added  the  food  material  which  is  to  give  it  special 
flavor,  the  egg  yolks  and  finally  the  well-beaten  whites. 

Proportions.  For  each  cup  of  thick  white  sauce  (2  table- 
spoons butter,  4  tablespoons  flour,  1  cup  milk)  or  an  equally 
thick  paste  of  bread  and  milk,  use  from  ^  cup  to  1  cup  of 
cooked  meat,  poultry,  fish,  sweetbreads,  mushrooms,  or  cheese, 
finely  chopped  and  well-seasoned,  and  from  2  to  4  eggs.  Add 
the  well-beaten  egg  yolks  to  the  sauce  and  meat,  and  when  cool 
cut  and  fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Turn  into  well- 
buttered  moulds  (one  large  or  individual)  set  in  a  pan  of  water 
and  cook  in  a  slow  oven  until  puffed  and  firm. 

Serve  hot  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  cooked,  with  or  without 
a  sauce. 

Paper  cases,  scallop  shells,  or  ramekins  may  be  used  for 
the  individual  dishes. 

Vegetable  and  fruit  souffles  may  be  made  without  the  sauce 
as  they  contain  a  large  amount  of  juice. 

Souffles    of    potatoes,    parsnips,    peas,    etc.,    may    require 


118 


moistening  with  a  little  cream  or  milk  before  folding  in  a  well- 
beaten  egg.     See  chicken,  fish,  and  onion  souffle. 

Cheese  Souffle 

2  tablespoons  butter  ^  cup  milk 

3  tablespoons  flour  3  eggs 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  or  Yz  pound  grated 

Cayenne  cheese 

Put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  when  hot  add  the  flour  and 
seasonings,  and  stir  until  smooth;  add  the  milk  slowly  and 
stir  until  it  boils,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  well-beaten 
yolks  and  the  cheese.  Mix  well  and  cool.  When  cold,  cut  and 
fold  in  whites  of  eggs  well-beaten,  then  turn  into  a  buttered 
dish,  and  bake  from  20  to  25  minutes  in  a  large  dish,  15  min- 
utes in  individual  dishes.     Serve  immediately.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Fish  Souffle 

Follow  the  recipe  for  cheese  souffle,  substituting  1  cup 
cold  cooked  fish  finely  flaked  for  the  grated  cheese. 

Chicken  Souffle 

Follow  the  recipe  for  cheese  souffle,  substituting  1  cup 
cooked  chicken  finely  chopped  for  the  grated  cheese. 

Onion  Souffle 

Follow  the  recipe  for  cheese  souffle,  substituting  1  cup 
boiled  onions  finely  chopped  for  the  grated  cheese. 


MILK 

Milk  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  clean  place,  free  from 
odors,  in  a  perfectly  clean,  covered  vessel  of  suitable  material — 
earthen,  porcelain,  glass  or  tin.  The  sanitary  condition  of  milk 
is  of  the  utmost  importance  as  it  easily  becomes  a  medium  for 
the  distribution  of  disease  germs,  readily  absorbs  odors,  flavors, 
and  impurities,  and  undergoes  fermentation. 

To  clean  the  vessels  in  which  milk  is  kept,  rinse  out  first 
with  cold  water,  then  wash  with  hot  water  and  soap,  adding 
a  little  borax  or  washing  soda  to  the  water.  Scald  well,  rinse 
with  clear  water  and  let  the  bottles  cool.  To  sterilize  the  vessels, 
fill  with  cold  water  and  heat  to  the  boiling  point,  boiling  20 
minutes.  Let  vessels  stand  in  the  sun  2  to  3  hours  when  pos- 
sible. 

Because  of  the  danger  from  disease  germs  in  impure  milk 
or  of  the  development  of  lactic  acid  bacteria  in  milk,  it  is 
often  necessary  to  apply  heat  to  kill  all  bacteria  in  order  to 
make  it  safe  for  use  as  food  or  to  keep  it  for  even  a  short  time. 

Pasteurization  is  the  most  desirable  method  of  preserving 
milk,  the  disease  germs  are  destroyed,  the  milk  will  keep  sweet 
from  one  to  four  days  and  the  digestibility  of  the  milk  is  but 
little  affected. 

Sterilization  is  the  most  effective  method  of  preserving 
milk,  as  both  bacteria  and  their  spores  are  destroyed  but  the 
taste  of  the  milk  is  altered  by  sterilization,  the  emulsion  of  fat 
is  destroyed,  the  lact-albumen  is  coagulated  and  the  casein  is 
rendered  less  easy  of  digestion. 

Cream  separates  from  the  heavier  liquid  in  the  milk  by 
the  force  of  gravity  when  standing  or  by  centrifugal  force  in 
the  separator — this  separation  is  more  complete  when  the  milk 
is  a  few  days  old.     The  older  cream  also  whips  more  easily. 

Acids  cause  the  casein  in  the  milk  to  curdle.     This  action 

119 


120 


takes  place  when  lactic  acid  is  produced  in  sour  milk  or  by  the 
addition  of  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  or  tartaric  acid  to  milk. 

Milk  is  coagulated  by  the  action  of  rennin,  a  ferment  of 
the  gastric  juice,  especially  abundant  in  the  infant's  stomach. 
This  action  takes  place  if  the  milk  has  not  been  heated  over 
120  degrees.  Rennet  is  rennin  artificially  prepared  for  com- 
mercial use  from  the  fourth  part  of  the  stomach  of  a  calf,  in  the 
form  of  tablets  by  the  addition  of  milk  sugar. 

Milk  is  sometimes  altered  in  order  more  nearly  to  resemble 
human  milk.  For  this  purpose  the  protein  must  be  decreased, 
the  carbohydrate  increased,  the  milk  given  an  alkalin  reaction 
and  the  fat  retained  in  relatively  the  same  proportion.  This  is 
called  "Modified"  milk. 

Cooking  of  Milk 

When  milk  is  heated  the  albumen  becomes  coagulated  at 
158  degrees  and  the  casinogen  is  changed,  A  scum  consisting 
of  coagulated  lact-albumen,  some  dried  casein,  lime  salts,  and 
fat,  forms  on  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  kettle  and  over  the 
top  of  the  milk. 

The  taste  of  milk  changes  as  it  is  heated  and  it  is  easily 
scorched,  growing  darker  in  color.  Because  of  the  danger  of 
scorching  milk  and  of  the  effect  that  too  high  a  degree  of  heat 
has  on  the  albumen,  making  it  more  difiicult  of  digestion,  milk 
should  be  heated  in  a  perfectly  smooth  vessel  and  whenever  pos- 
sible it  should  be  heated  over  hot  water  in  a  double  boiler. 
When  a  skin  forms  on  top  with  bubbles  around  the  side,  milk 
is  said  to  be  scalded  and  is  hot  enough  for  most  purposes  in 
cooking. 

All  utensils  which  have  held  milk  should  be  rinsed  in  cold 
water  before  being  put  in  hot.  Salt  should  not  be  added  to 
milk  when  it  is  to  be  heated  for  some  time,  for  it  may  cause 
milk  to  curdle. 


121 


Reasons  for  Heating  Milk 

Milk  is  heated  for  the  purpose  of  preservation ;  to  introduce 
heat  into  the  body;  and  to  combine  it  with  other  foods.  Milk 
forms  the  basis  of  many  cooked  dishes,  for  example  cocoa, 
cream  soups,  white  sauce,  custards,  and  other  puddings.  Either 
whole  milk  or  skimmed  milk  may  be  used  for  cooking.  In  many 
recipes  water  may  be  substituted  for  the  milk,  but  one  must 
then  take  into  consideration  the  reduction  in  food  value  of  the 
dish. 

Sterilized  Milk 

When  it  is  necessary  to  preserve  milk  in  order  that  it  may 
be  kept  for  some  time,  the  temperature  should  be  raised  to  the 
boiling  point  and  kept  there  10  to  20  minutes.  The  milk  should 
then  be  strained  and  quickly  cooled.  Milk  sterilized  in  this 
way  and  put  into  clean  utensils,  carefully  covered,  can  be 
kept  for  many  days. 

Pasteurized  Milk 

Fill  sterile  bottles  or  jars  full  of  milk,  cork  them  with 
cotton  that  has  been  baked  in  the  oven  and  place  on  rings  in  a 
deep  pan.  Fill  the  pan  with  cold  water  so  that  the  water  may  be 
as  high  outside  the  jars  as  the  milk  is  inside,  place  the  pan 
over  the  fire  and  heat  until  small  bubbles  appear  around  the 
top  of  the  milk  (158  degrees  F),  and  keep  at  this  temperature 
20  to  30  minutes,  then  reduce  temperature  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Rennet   or   Junket 

1  quart  milk  1  tablespoon  rennet  or    1  tab- 

2 -tablespoons  sugar  let     (dissolved  in  ^  cup 

lukewarm  water) 

Heat  the  milk  until  lukewarm,  add  sugar,  and  stir  until 
sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  rennet,  stir  slightly,  pour  into  glass  dish, 


122 


and  leave  in  a  warm  place  until  firm.  Sprinkle  with  nutmeg 
and  chill.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  Do  not  jar.  Rennet 
should  be  handled  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  mass,  as  curd 
and  whey  separate.  Kennet  may  be  improved  by  addition  of 
such  fresh  fruits  as  strawberries,  raspberries,  etc.     Serves  8. 


CUSTARDS 

A  custard  is  a  combination  of  eggs  and  milk,  usually 
sweetened  and  flavored  and  either  steamed  or  baked  as  cup 
custard,  or  cooked  in  a  double  boiler  as  soft  custard.  The  whole 
egg  may  be  used  or  the  yolks  alone.  The  yolks  make  a  smoother, 
richer  custard.  One  whole  egg  or  two  yolks  of  eggs  will  be 
sufficient  for  one  quart  of  milk. 

The  egg  must  be  thoroughly  mixed,  but  not  beaten  light, 
the  sugar  and  salt  added  and  the  milk  scalded  and  stirred 
in  slowly.  The  custard  must  be  strained  through  a  fine  sieve 
and  cooked  at  a  moderate  temperature.  The  cup  custard  should 
be  strained  before  cooking,  the  soft  custard  may  be  strained  after 
cooking. 

A  soft  custard  is  cooked  over  water  and  is  stirred  con- 
stantly until  done.  When  done  the  froth  disappears  from  the 
surface,  the  custard  is  thickened  and  coats  the  spoon  and  sides 
of  the  pan,  and  there  is  no  sign  of  curdling.  If  the  custard  is 
cooked  too  long  it  becomes  curdled.  If  a  custard  becomes 
curdled,  put  it  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  beat  until  smooth. 

A  steamed  or  baked  custard  is  done  when  it  becomes  set  and 
when  a  silver  knife  will  come  out  clean  after  cutting  it. 

Steamed  Custards 

1  quart  milk  (heated)  Salt. 

4  eggs  or  10  egg  yolks  2  tablespoons  caramel  or 

j4  cup  sugar  }i  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Beat  eggs  sufficiently  to  mix  them  thoroughly;  add  sugar, 
salt,  and  hot  milk  slowly. 

.  Strain  into  cups,  flavor  with  caramel  or  sprinkle  nutmeg 
on  top,  and  steam  until  firm  over  gently  boiling  water,  20  to 
30  minutes.     Serves  6  to  8. 

123 


124 


Baked  Custards 

Prepare  as  steamed  custards,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  firm;  20  to  40  minutes. 

Chocolate  Custards 

Use  recipe  for  steamed  custards  adding  1  oz.  Baker's 
Chocolate  (melted)  to  the  hot  milk.     Steam  or  bake  as  desired. 

Soft   Custard 

1  pint  milk  (heated)  Salt 

4  egg  yolks  Yz  teaspoon  vanilla  extract 

4  tablespoons  sugar 

Beat  egg  yolks  sufficiently  to  mix  them  thoroughly,  add 
sugar,  salt,  and  hot  milk  slowly.  Cook  in  double  boiler  over 
water  that  is  boiling  gently  and  stir  constantly  until  the  cus- 
tard thickens.    Strain.   When  cool,  add  flavor. 

For  soft  chocolate  custard  add  ^  oz.  Baker's  Chocolate 
(melted)  to  the  hot  milk.     Serves  6. 

Floating  Island 

Use  recipe  for  soft  custard  and  when  cold  garnish  the  cus- 
tard with  a  meringue  made  according  to  the  following  recipe: 

Meringue 

4  egg  whites  ^  cup  powdered  sugar 

Beat  egg  whites  very  light,  add  powdered  sugar  and  con- 
tinue beating.  Drop  in  large  spoonfuls  on  cold  custard.  Serves 
8  to   10. 

The  meringue  may  be  cooked,  if  desired,  by  slipping  a 
spoonful  at  a  time  on  top  of  the  scalded  milk  and  covering  the 
double  boiler  carefully.  When  the  meringue  is  set,  it  should  be 
carefully  removed  to  a  plate  until  custard  is  made. 


125 

Tapioca    Cream 

Yz  cup  pearl  tapioca  Yz  cup  sugar 

1  cup  cold  water  ]/%  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  milk  2  egg  whites 

2  egg  yolks  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Soak  the  tapioca  several  hours  in  cold  water  until  it  absorbs 
the  water,  add  milk  and  cook  until  tapioca  is  soft  and  transpar- 
ent, add  yolk  of  ^gg,  sugar,  and  salt;  cook  3  minutes  over  water, 
stirring  constantly;  remove  from  fire;  add  the  beaten  whites  and 
flavoring,  and  when  cold  serve.     Serves  8. 

Rice  Cream 

Use  the  recipe  for  tapioca  cream,  substituting  1  cup  boiled 
rice  {Yz  cup  uncooked)  for  the  soaked  tapioca.  Heat  the  rice 
in  hot  milk  in  a  double  boiler  until  soft. 


CHEESE 

Cheese  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place  in  a  ventilated 
tin  box  or  covered  with  cheese  cloth.  Do  not  keep  cheese  in  ice 
box  or  cupboard  near  other  food.  When  cheese  becomes  hard  and 
dry,  grate  and  keep  to  use  in  cooked  dishes.  Soft  cheese  does  not 
keep  well,  hence  it  must  be  purchased  in  small  quantities,  tightly 
wrapped  and  kept  very  cold.  Soft  cheeses  usually  come  wrapped 
in  paraffin  paper  and  tin  foil. 

Cheese  is  cooked  to  change  the  flavor,  to  melt  the  cheese, 
and  to  combine  it  with  other  foods.  Cheese  is  more  easy  of 
digestion  when  combined  with  other  foods  and  it  increases  the 
food  value  of  the  dish  to  which  it  is  added. 

A  high  temperature  and  prolonged  cooking  toughen  cheese. 
The  best  results  in  cooking  cheese  are  always  obtained  if  cheese 
is  combined  with  other  materials.  A  dry,  crumbly  cheese  is 
most  easily  broken  up  and  mixed  with  other  food,  and  gives  the 
best  results  in  cooking. 

Cottage  Cheese 

When  milk  has  become  sour  enough  to  show  a  well-thick- 
ened curd,  heat  it  slowly  until  the  whey  rises  to  the  top,  pour 
this  off,  put  the  curd  in  a  bag  and  let  it  drip  for  several  hours 
without  squeezing.  The  separation  of  the  curd  may  be  more 
quickly  effected  by  pouring  boiling  water  into  the  sour  milk. 
Put  the  curd  into  a  bowl  and  break  fine  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
season  with  salt,  and  mix  into  a  paste  with  a  little  cream  or 
butter.  Mold  into  balls,  if  desired,  and  chill  before  serving.  (It 
is  best  when  fresh.) 

Welsh  Rarebit 

1  cup  or  y^  lb.  cheese  Cayenne 

(grated)  1  egg 

%  cup  cream  or  milk  2  teaspoons  butter 
^  or  1  teaspoon  mustard  Dry  toast 

y2  teaspoon  salt 

126 


127 


Heat  cheese  with  milk  or  cream  in  a  double  boiler.  Mix 
the  mustard,  salt,  and  cayenne,  add  to  the  egg,  and  beat  well. 
When  the  cheese  is  melted,  add  the  mixture  of  dry  ingredients 
with  the  egg,  then  the  butter,  and  cook  till  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly.    Pour  over  the  toast  and  serve  immediately.     Serves  6. 

Cheese  Straws 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  yg  teaspoon  white  pepper 

butter  substitute  Cayenne 

%  cup  flour  1  cup  or  ys  lb  grated 

1  cup  fresh  crumbs  cheese 

^  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  milk  or  more 

Cream  the  butter,  add  remaining  ingredients  in  order  given 
and  mix  thoroughly,  using  enough  milk  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
Roll  dough  ^4  i^ich  thick,  cut  }i  inch  wide  and  6  inches  long, 
and  bake  until  brown  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.     Serves  24. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese 

1  cup  macarpni  or  1  cup  cheese (^  lb.) 

ly^  cup  spaghetti  2  cups  buttered  crumbs 

1  y^  cup  medium  white  sauce 
Break  macaroni  in  one-inch  pieces.  Cook  in  a  large 
amount  of  boiling  salted  water  30  to  45  minutes;  when  tender 
turn  into  a  colander  and  pour  cold  water  through  it.  Make 
white  sauce,  add  cheese  and  macaroni  to  it,  and  pour  into  a 
buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  the  crumbs  and  bake  until 
brown.  Spaghetti,  vermicelli,  and  rice  may  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Noodles  and  Cheese 

Cook  noodles  in  boiling  salted  water  20  minutes,  or  until 
tender;  drain  in  a  colander.  Make  a  white  sauce,  add  noodles 
and  cheese.  Turn  into  patty  dishes  and  cover  with  buttered 
crumbs.    Bake  until  crumbs  are  brown.     Serves  6  to  8. 


128 


Cheese   Fondue 

1  cup  milk  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Speck  pepper 

1  cup  cheese  grated  or  3  eggs 

broken  up  8  slices  toast 

1  tablespoon  butter 
Combine  the  milk,  bread,  cheese  and  seasonings.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  eggs  and  add  to  the  milk  mixture.  Cook  over  hot 
water  until  thickened.  Remove  from  the  heat.  Cut  and  fold 
in  the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  serve  at  once  on  toast. 
Serves  8  to  10.  * 

For  other  recipes  in  which  cheese  is  used,  see  cheese  souffle, 
potatoes  au  gratin,  and  toasted  crackers  and  cheese. 


SOUPS 

VEGETABLE  SOUPS 
Vegetable   Soup   Without   Meat   Stock 

1  onion  1  quart  tomatoes 

1  carrot  1  bay  leaf 

1  turnip  2  cloves 

1  piece  celery  1  tablespoon  salt 

1  cabbage  leaf  ^  teaspon  pepper 

1  pepper  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  sprig  parsley  2  tablespoons  fat 
1  quart  water 

Cut  the  onion,  carrot,  turnip,  celery,  cabbage  leaf,  pepper, 
and  parsley  into  small  even  pieces,  being  careful  to  remove  the 
seeds  from  the  pepper.  Add  the  water  and  boil  until  the  vege- 
tables are  tender.  Add  the  bay  leaf  and  cloves  to  the  tomatoes, 
boil  till  tomatoes  are  tender.  Strain  and  thicken  with  the  fat 
and  flour  to  which  the  seasonings  have  been  added.  Add  the 
cooked  vegetables  without  straining  them.  Should  be  sufficient 
to  serve  6  or  8. 

Okra  and  Tomato  Soup 

1  pint  sliced  okra  1  green  pepper,  seeds  re- 
1^  pints  tomatoes,pared  and  moved  and  pepper  cut  fine 

cut  thin  2  teaspoons  salt 

2  quarts  water  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

3  tablespoons  rice  2  tablespoons  butter  or 
3  tablespoons  minced  onion  other  fat 

Put  all  the  ingredients  into  the  soup  pot  and  cook  gently 

for  2  hours,  then  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter  or  sweet  drippings 

and  serve.     The  bones  from  roast  meat  or  broiled  meat  cooked 

with  this  soup  add  to  the  flavor.    Serves  6  to  8. 

129 


130 

Dried  Pea  Soup 

1  cup  dried  peas  3  tablespoons  flour 
ly^  quarts  water                            1^  teaspoons  salt 

2  tablespoons  chopped  ]/%  teaspoon  pepper 

onion  1  pint  milk 

3  tablespoons  butter 

Wash  the  peas  and  soak  them  over  night  in  cold  water, 
drain,  and  rinse  thoroughly,  add  2^  quarts  of  cold  water  and 
the  onion ;  cook  slowly  until  soft,  rub  through  a  strainer  and  add 
the  remainder  of  the  liquid;  melt  butter,  add  flour  and  season- 
ings, then  hot  milk  with  the  liquid  from  the  peas,  and  cook  until 
it  is  like  thick  cream.  Cooking  a  ham  bone  with  the  peas  im- 
proves the  flavor.   Serves  6  to  8. 

Black  Bean  Soup 

1  pint  black  beans  2  teaspoons  salt 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  ^  teaspoon  pepper 
4  tablespoons  butter  or  ^  lb.  Cayenne 

fat  salt  pork  ^  teaspoon  mustard 

2  stalks  celery  or  ^  teaspoon         2  tablespoons  flour 

celery  salt  1  large  lemon 

2  quarts  cold  water  2  hard   cooked   eggs 

Wash  the  beans  and  soak  them  over  night  in  cold  water, 
drain,  and  rinse  thoroughly.  Fry  the  onions  in  one-half  of  the 
fat,  put  with  beans,  add  the  celery  root  and  2  quarts  cold  water. 
Cook  slowly  until  beans  are  soft,  adding  more  water  as  it  boils 
away;  rub  through  a  strainer,  add  the  seasonings,  and  heat.  Heat 
the  remaining  fat  in  a  saucepan,  add  flour,  then  the  hot  soup 
gradually.  Cut  the  lemon  and  eggs  into  thin  slices  and  serve 
with  the  soup  as  a  garnish.    Serves  8. 

Dried  Bean  Soup 

1  quart  dried  beans  2  quarts  cold  water 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion        2  teaspoons  salt 

^  pound  fat  salt  pork  34  teaspoon  Cayenne  pepper 

2  stalks  celery,  or  ^  tea-  34  teaspoon  mustard 

spoon  celery  salt  2  tablespoons  flour 


131 


Wash  the  beans  and  soak  them  over  night  in  cold  water, 
drain,  and  rinse  thoroughly.  Fry  the  onions  in  one  half  the  fat, 
put  with  beans,  add  the  celery  salt  and  2  quarts  of  cold  water. 
Cook  slowly  until  the  beans  are  soft,  adding  more  water  as  it 
boils  away;  rub  through  a  strainer,  add  the  seasonings  and  re- 
heat. Heat  the  remaining  fat  in  a  saucepan,  add  flour,  then  add 
the  hot  soup  gradually.    Serves  6  to  8. 

CREAM  SOUPS 

The  strained  pulp  of  cooked  vegetables,  greens,  and  cereals 
with  an  equal  portion  of  thin  white  sauce  is  the  basis  of  cream 
soups. 

Thickening.  A  binding  of  butter  and  flour  is  used  to  pre- 
vent a  separation  of  the  thicker  and  thinner  parts  of  soup;  the 
butter  should  be  heated  until  it  bubbles,  the  flour  and  seasoning 
added,  and  then  sufficient  hot  liquid  to  make  a  smooth  sauce; 
this  should  be  poured  into  the  rest  of  the  hot  liquid  just  before 
the  soup  is  to  be  served,  and  the  soup  should  not  be  allowed  to 
boil,  after  the  vegetable  pulp  and  milk  have  been  combined,  but 
kept  over  hot  water. 

Two  tablespoons  of  flour  or  half  that  amount  of  corn  starch 
to  each  quart  of  soup  is  a  good  proportion  to  observe  for  thicken- 
ing all  vegetable  soups  that  are  not  of  a  starchy  nature,  half 
that  amount  will  be  sufficient  for  soup  prepared  from  a  very 
starchy  vegetable. 

Economy.  Attractive  cream  soups  can  be  prepared  from 
left-over  vegetables  and  a  combination  of  flavors  may  give  good 
results. 

Cooking.  The  acid  present  in  nearly  all  vegetables  is  very 
apt  to  produce  a  curdling  in  the  milk  if  too  high  a  temperature 
is  maintained  after  they  are  combined.  It  is  well  not  to  combine 
the  milk  and  the  vegetable  until  just  before  serving. 


132 

Serving.  Cream  soups  are  served  for  luncheon  and  supper 
or  with  dinner  if  the  other  courses  are  not  too  rich. 

Accompaniments.  Crisp  crackers,  croutons,  soup  sticks,  or 
bread  sticks  are  served  as  accompaniments  with  cream  soups 
and  are  valuable  because  they  necessitate  thorough  mastication, 
hence  induce  the  flow  of  saliva  and  aid  in  the  digestion  of  the 
starchy  ingredients  of  the  soup. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

1  quart  tomatoes  ,  Ys  cup  flour 

fresh  or  canned  2  teaspoons  salt 

}i  teaspoon  soda  ^  teaspoon  white  pepper 

yi  or  ys  cup  butter  or  1  quart  milk  (heated) 

butter  substitute 
Cover  and  stew  the  tomatoes  slowly  one-half  to  one  hour, 
rub  through  a  strainer,  and  while  hot  add  soda;  make  a  tomato 
sauce  with  butter,  flour,  seasonings,  and  strained  tomatoes,  and 
add  hot  milk  just  before  serving.    Serves  8. 
Cream   of   Celery   Soup 

2  cups  celery  ^  cup  flour 

1  quart  water  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  milk  (heated)  ^  teaspoon  white  pepper 

3  tablespoons  butter 

Cook  the  celery  in  boiling  water  until  very  soft,  strain. 
Make  a  white  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  seasonings,  and  milk, 
and  cook  until  the  consistency  of  thick  cream,  add  celery  stock 
or  liquid  before  serving. 

Serve  with  1  tablespoon  whipped  cream  on  each  soup  plate 
if  desired.     Serves  6. 

Potato  Soup 

3  cups  milk  or  2  tablespoons  flour 

3  cups  milk  and  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion         ^  teaspoon  white  pepper 

4  potatoes  Celery  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  2  teaspoons  parsley 

butter  substitute 


133 


Heat  the  milk  and  onion  in  a  double  boiler.  Cook  the 
potatoes  until  soft,  and  drain.  Mash  potaoes  with  a  wire  po- 
tato masher,  add  the  hot  milk  slowly,  strain,  and  using  this  as 
liquid  make  white  sauce  of  remaining  ingredients.  Cook  5 
minutes,  and  add  the  chopped  parsley  just  before  serving. 
Serves  6. 

Cream   of  Potato   Soup 

3  potatoes  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  milk  '  Pepper 

Yz  cup  cream  Celery  salt 

2  egg  yolks 

Boil  the  potatoes  until  soft,  drain,  mash,  add  hot  milk, 
and  strain.  Add  beaten  yolks,  cream  and  seasonings.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler  a  few  minutes  until  egg  thickens,  stirring  con- 
stantly.    Serve  immediately.     Serves  6. 

Cream  of   Corn   Soup 

1  can  corn  ^4  cup  flour 

1  pint  water  2  teaspoons  salt 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion       ^  teaspoon  white  pepper 
y^  cup  butter  or  butter  sub-  1  quart  milk 

stitute  2  egg  yolks 

Cook  corn  with  water  20  minutes;  cook  onion  in  butter 
until  light  brown,  add  flour,  seasonings,  and  milk  gradually, 
then  add  corn,  strain,  and  reheat.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  pour 
soup  slowly  over  them,  mix  and  serve  immediately.     Serves  8. 

Corn  Chowder 

1  small  onion  1  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

butter  substitute  %  pint  milk 

4  medium  potatoes  ^  can  tomatoes  or 
1  can  corn  4  fresh  tomatoes 

1  quart  water  y^  teaspoon  soda 

1  tablespoon  flour 


134 


Cut  onion  very  fine.  Brown  slightly  in  2  tablespoons 
fat.  Put  alternate  layers  of  sliced  potato  and  corn  in  kettle.  Add 
onion.  Cover  with  water.  Simmer  till  tender.  Make  a  white 
sauce  of  1  tablespoon  fat,  flour,  seasonings,  and  milk.  Add 
white  sauce  to  chowder.     Cook  for  5  to  10  minutes. 

Cook  tomatoes,  strain  them,  and  just  before  serving  add 
soda  then  add  to  chowder.    Serves  8  to  10. 

Cream  of  Onion  Soup 

3  large  onions  1  teaspoon  salt 

Yz  cup  butter  or  butter  ^4  teaspoon  white  pepper 

substitute  1^  quart  milk,  stock,  or 

^  cup  flour  water 

Chop  or  slice  onions,  add  to  hot  fat  and  fry  to  a  red  brown. 
Add  flour  and  seasonings  and  cook  until  slightly  brown.  Add 
hot  liquid  to  make  of  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Strain. 
Reheat  and  serve.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Cream   of   Carrot   Soup 

1  pint  carrots,  sliced  1^  quarts  hot  hilk 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  2  teaspoons  salt 

butter  substitute  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

4  tablespoons  flour 
Cook  carrots  until  very  tender  in  enough  boiling  water  to 
cover,  then  rub  all  through  a  strainer  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

Heat  fat,  add  flour  and  then  the  carrot  mixture,  and  when 
it  boils  well  add  hot  milk  and  seasonings.  Serve  at  once. 
Serves  6. 

Green  Pea  Soup 

1  pint  or  1  can  of  peas  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  quart  water  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  pint  milk  or  cream  White  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  ^  teaspoon  sugar 

butter  substitute 
Wash  the  peas  and  cook  until  soft  in  1  quart  of  boiling 


135 


water.  ^lash  them  in  the  water  in  which  they  were  cooked, 
strain,  and  add  the  milk  or  cream;  melt  the  fat,  add  flour  and 
seasoning,  then  the  liquid,  and  cook  until  of  creamy  consistency. 
If  the  peas  are  fresh  some  of  the  pods  may  be  cooked  with  them. 
Serves  8. 

Peanut  Soup 

1  pint  shelled  peanuts  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  pint  water  3  tablespoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  milk  Pepper 

Shell  and  chop  the  peanuts  fine.  Boil  in  the  water  five 
minutes  if  roasted  peanuts  are  used,  twenty  minutes  if  unroasted 
peanuts  are  used.  Scald  milk  with  the  onion,  make  into  a  white 
sauce  with  butter,  flour  and  seasonings.  Add  boiled  peanuts. 
Strain  or  not  as  desired.     Serves  6. 

MEAT  SOUPS 

Soup  stock  consists  of  the  juices  and  soluble  portions  of 
meat  or  fish,  bones  and  vegetables  which  have  been  extracted  by 
long,  slow  cooking.  The  basis  of  stock  may  be  beef,  veal,  mutton, 
fish,  poultry,  game,  and  vegetables.  Proportions  used  should  be 
Yz  meat,  Yz  bone  and  1  pint  water  to  each  1  lb.  meat. 

All  waste  portions  of  meat  and  bone  and  bits  of  cold  cooked 
meats  that  have  not  been  charred  in  cooking  can  be  utilized  in 
making  stock. 

Vegetables  and  seasonings  may  be  varied. 

Soup  vegetables  include  carrots,  turnips,  celery,  onions, 
leeks,  and  parsley.  For  seasoning,  the  pot  herbs  (summer  savory, 
thyme,  and  marjoram),  the  bay  leaf,  cloves,  peppercorns,  salt, 
and  pepper  are  used  in  soup.  Tomatoes  can  be  combined  with 
brown  stock  to  add  flavor. 


136 


Rules  to  be  Remembered  in  Making  Stock 

1  Cut  the  meat  up  fine  and  put  in  cold  water,  for  ^  to 

1  hour, 

2  Heat  to  boiling  point  and  then  simmer  slowly  5   to   7 

hours. 

3  Add  no   starchy   substance   if   stock   is  to   be   kept   for 

some  time. 

4  When  cooked,  strain  and  cool  quickly,  leaving  stock  un- 

covered until  cold. 

5  The  fat  should  not  be  removed  from  stock  or  broths  that 

are  to  be  kept,  as  when  cold  it  will  form  a  thin  cover- 
ing over  the  stock  excluding  air  and  preventing  de- 
composition. It  should  be  entirely  removed  before 
reheating  stock  or  broth,  and  should  be  reserved  to  be 
used  in  place  of  drippings.  Small  globules  of  fat 
may  be  removed  from  cold  stock  by  skimming  with  a 
cloth,  which  has  been  dipped  in  boiling  water,  then 
wrung  dry.  Fat  may  be  removed  from  hot  broth  by 
using  tissue  paper  or  a  piece  of  bread. 

6  The  meat  which  remains  after  straining  the  stock  may 

be  used  in  any  recipe  which  calls  for  cold  cooked  meat 
— such  as  minced  meat,  croquettes,  etc. 

Brown  soup  stock  is  prepared  from  beef,  and  the  best  results 
are  obtained  by  browning  a  portion  of  the  meat  or  by  using  cold 
cooked  meat  that  is  browned.  It  is  usually  seasoned  with  vege- 
tables, spices,  and  herbs. 

White  Soup  Stock  is  prepared  from  veal,  turkey,  chicken, 
or  rabbit,  delicately  seasoned. 

Soup  stock  which  is  prepared  from  mutton  is  used  only  in 
special  recipes  and  should  not  be  combined  with  that  from  other 
meats. 

Bouillon  is  made  from  lean  beef,  delicately  seasoned  and 
clear. 


137 


Consomme  is  made  from  two  or  three  kinds  of  meat — beef, 
veal,  or  fowl,  and  usually  cleared. 
Broth  is  uncleared  soup  stock. 

Beef  Stock  or  Brown  Stock 

4  lb.  meat  and  bone  2  quarts  cold  water 

Cut  meat  in  small  pieces,  crack  the  bone  and  soak  1  hour 
in  cold  water,  then  cook  at  a  low  temperature  for  5  hours.  (Add 
vegetables  if  desired,  then  cook  2  hours  longer.)  Strain,  chill 
quickly.     Skim  off  fat  before  using.     Serves  6. 

The  trimmings  and  bones  of  fresh  meats  or  bones  and 
pieces  from  roasts  may  be  cut  into  small  pieces  and  used  for 
stock,  but  no  smoked  or  charred  pieces  of  meat  or  bone  should 
be  used.  Stock  may  be  used  for  soups,  gravies,  and  sauces. 
Dark  caramel  may  be  added  to  give  a  rich  color. 

Beef  stock  is  the  foundation  of  all  dark  meat  soups  and  is 
seasoned  as  desired  with  vegetables,  cereals,  or  other  flavors. 

White  Stock 

1  knuckle  of  veal  Parsley 

2  lbs.  veal  meat  }4  teaspoon  peppercorn 
^  cup  onion  2  teaspoons  salt 

y^.  cup  carrot  4  quarts  cold  water 

^  cup  celery 
Cut  meat  in  small  pieces. 

Soak  knuckle  and  veal  in  cold  water  1  hour.  Heat  slowly 
until  it  boils.    Cook  slowly  4  to  5  hours. 

Add  vegetables  and  cook  1  hour  longer,  strain,  chill 
quickly.  Skim  before  reheating.  Add  vegetables,  cereals,  or 
other  flavorings  as  desired  for  serving.    Serves  6  to  8. 

To  Clear  Soup  or  Stock 

To  each  quart  of  cool  stock  add  white  of  one  egg  slightly 
beaten,  and  the  crushed  egg  shell,  heat  until  it  boils,  beating 
constantly.     Boil  2  minutes  without  beating  and  cook  gently  20, 


138 


minutes.     Then  let  settle  a  few  minutes.     Remove  scum  and 
strain  through  muslin. 

Julienne  or  Vegetable  Soup 

1  quart  clear  soup  stock  ^  pint  vegetables 

Carrots,  turnips,  celery,  peas,  beans,  etc.,  may  be  used. 
Cut  the  vegetables  in  threadlike  pieces  2  inches  long  or  in 
small  cubes  or  fancy  shapes,  cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender, 
and  add  to  the  cleared  soup  stock  just  before  serving.    Serves 
4  to  6. 

Bouillon 

4  lbs.  meat  and  bone  Pot  herbs 

3  quarts  cold  water  1  bay  leaf 

1  large  onion  1  sprig  parsley 

34  cup  carrot  1  piece  celery  root 

Yz  cup  turnip  6  cloves  * 

10  peppercorns 
Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  crack  the  bones,  and  soak 
in  the  cold  water  for  one  hour.  Cook  gently  6  or  7  hours;  then 
add  the  vegetables  finely  chopped  and  the  seasonings;  cook  2 
hours  longer  and  strain.  Several  pieces  of  lemon  rind  may  be 
heated  with  the  stock  if  desired.  If  part  of  the  meat  and  vege- 
tables are  browned  before  adding  to  the  water  it  improves  the 
color  and  flavor.     Clear.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Cream  of  Rice  with  Stock 

1  quart  white  stock  Ij^  cup  milk 

^  cup  cooked  rice  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  slice  of  onion  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

1  sprig  of  parsley  ^  cup  cream 

1  sprig  of  celery 

Add  rice,  onion,  parsley,  and  celery  to  stock  and  boil  ^ 
hour.  Press  through  a  sieve.  Scald  milk  and  add  to  strained 
stock.     Add  seasonings  and  reheat. 

Just  before  serving  add  cream.     Serves  8. 


139 


Scotch  Broth 

3  lbs.  neck  of  mutton  1  tablespoon  butter 

3  qts.  water  2  tablespoons  flour 

Yz  cup  pearl  barley  or  rice  1  tablespoon  salt 

y^  cup  carrot  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

Ya,  cup  turnip  1  tablespoon  chopped 
Yx  cup  celery  parsley 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onion 

Remove  the  fat  and  bone  and  cut  the  meat  into  1  inch 
pieces,  soak  in  2  quarts  cold  water  1  hour,  then  bring  quickly 
to  boiling  point  and  skim.  Drain  the  barley,  which  has  been 
soaked  in  cold  water  over  night,  add  this  to  the  broth,  and 
cook  for  2  hours  at  low  temperature.  Soak  the  bones  in  the 
other  quart  of  cold  water  1  hour,  then  heat  slowly  and  boil  2 
hours,  skim,  strain,  and  add  liquid  to  the  broth  from  the  meat. 
Add  the  vegetables  to  broth  and  cook  until  they  are  soft. 
Thicken  with  butter  and  flour  cooked  together,  add  seasoning, 
and  just  before  serving  add  chopped  parsley. 

Gumbo  Soup 

1  chicken  1  quart  okra  pods 
Flour  for  dredging  1  quart  sliced  tomatoes- 

Bacon  or  other  fat  Salt  and  pepper 

1  onion  ^  cup  rice 

Cut  up  the  chicken  as  for  fricassee,  and  dredge  it  thor- 
oughly with  flour.  Slice  the  onion  and  cook  in  the  hot  fat  till 
golden  brown,  then  brown  the  sliced  okra  pods. 

Put  the  chicken,  onion,  okra,  and  sliced  tomatoes  into  a 
kettle  and  simmer  until  chicken  is  tender.  Remove  the  large 
bones  and  the  fat,  season,  and  add  the  boiled  rice.  Serves  8  to  10, 


140 

FISH  SOUPS 
Fish   Cho'w^der 

1  lb.  fish  4  tablespoons  flour 

2  pints  cold  water  2  teaspoons  salt 

4  potatoes  ^  teaspoon  white  pepper 

4  tablespoons  butter  1  quart  milk 

2  small  onions,  cut  fine 
Remove  fish  from  bone  and  cut  in  ^-inch  pieces.     Put 
bones  in  kettle,  cover  with  1  pint  water,  and  cook.     Pare  and 
slice  potatoes  ;^-inch  thick.     Soak  in  cold  water  %  hour.    Par- 
boil 5  minutes.     Pour  off  water. 

Saute  onion  in  half  the  butter;  strain  butter  into  soup  kettle, 
add  sliced  potatoes  and  cover  with  1  pint  boiling  water,  and  boil 
10  minutes.  Strain  water  from  bones  into  the  kettle.  When  all 
boils  well,  add  fish  and  simmer  10  minutes. 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  flour, 
seasonings,  and  the  hot  milk  and  add  to  the  fish  in  the  kettle. 
Serve  at  once.     Serves  8  to  10. 

Oyster  Stew  (plain) 

1  quart  milk,  scalded  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  pint  or  30  oysters  and  their  Pepper 

juice  1  tablespoon  butter 

Scald  the  milk.  Strain  the  juice  from  the  oysters,  pick 
them  over  carefully  to  remove  the  shell  and  wash  in  cold  water. 
When  ready  to  serve  cook  the  strained  oyster  juice,  then  add 
the  oysters,  and  cook  until  the  edges  curl.  Add  the  seasonings, 
butter  and  hot  milk.     Serve  at  once.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Oyster  Stew  (thickened) 

1  pint  oysters  2  tablespoons  chopped 

1^  quarts  milk  parsley 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onion  1  teaspoon  salt 

y^.  cup  butter  y%  teaspoon  pepper 
y^  cup  flour 


141 


Strain  the  juice  from  the  oysters  and  heat  it.  Pick  the 
oysters  over  carefully  to  remove  bits  of  shell,  washing  them  with 
cold  water.  A  few  minutes  before  serving  add  the  oysters  to 
the  hot  juice  and  simmer  until  the  oysters  look  plump  and  the 
edges  are  curled. 

Scald  the  milk  with  the  chopped  onion,  melt  the  butter  and 
flour,  add  the  seasonings  and  hot  milk.  When  ready  to  serve 
add  the  cooked  oysters  with  their  liquor  and  the  chopped 
parsley.     Serves  8  to  10. 

Clam  Puree 

1  pint  clams  Salt  and  pepper 

y^.  cup  clam  juice  ^  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

1  pint  hot  milk  sauce 

1  tablespoon  flour 

Cook  the  clams  until  the  edges  curl,  remove  the  siphon,  and 
chop  them  very  fine.  Melt  the  butter,  add  flour  and  seasonings, 
then  the  hot  milk  slowly.    Add  clams,  and  ^  cup  clam  juice. 

When  hot  strain  and  serve.     Serves  4. 


MEAT 

The  term  "meats"  applies  to  the  flesh  of  animals  which  is 
used  as  food  and  includes  Meats  Proper,  Poultry,  and  Game. 

Specifically  the  term  "meat"  is  applied  to  the  flesh  of 
domestic  animals  which  is  used  as  food — beef,  veal,  mutton, 
lamb  and  pork. 

The  parts  of  animals  used  for  food  include  the  muscular 
tissue  with  fat  and  bone;  special  organs  as  the  heart,  liver, 
kidney,  tongue,  etc.;  and  such  glands  as  the  sweetbreads,  pan- 
creas, brains,  etc. 

The  quality  of  the  meat  is  dependent  upon  the  following 
points : 

1  Breed  of  the  animal. 

2  Age  of  the  animal — Beef,  three  to  eight  years. 

Mutton,  over  one  year. 
Veal,  six  to  ten  weeks. 
Lamb,  under  one  year. 

3  Size  of  the  animal. 

4  Manner  of  fattening — stall  fed  or  grass  fed. 

5  Amount  of  exercise. 

6  Length  of  time  killed 

In  preparation  for  market,  the  animal  is  killed,  bled, 
dressed,  and  hung  in  a  room  whose  temperature  is  slightly  above 
the  freezing  point.  During  hanging  a  process  of  ripening  takes 
place  which  causes  the  meat  to  become  more  tender.  The  meat 
of  young  animals  is  allowed  to  ripen  for  a  few  days,  beef  for 
three  weeks,  and  mutton  for  even  a  longer  time. 

When  meat  is  sold  it  is  divided  into  cuts,  which  are  varied 
according  to  the  animal,  its  size  and  the  purpose  for  which  the 
cut  is  to  be  used. 

The  cost  of  meat  is  dependent  on  the  local  conditions  and 
niarket  prices.     In  general  the  more  tender  cuts  are  the  most 

142 


143 


expensive  but  their  nutritive  value  is  no  higher  than  that  of  the 
tough  cuts. 

Meat  should  be  removed  from  the  paper  as  soon  as  it  comes 
from  the  market  and  kept  in  a  cool  place.  It  should  never  stand 
in  the  open  air  exposed  to  dust  and  flies  but  should  be  kept 
covered. 

BEEF 

Beef  is  the  meat  most  commonly  used.  It  is  in  season  all 
the  year,  its  food  value  is  high,  and  it  is  easy  of  digestion  when 
well  cooked. 

Tests  for  Good  Beef 

1  Color — bright  red  after  standing. 

2  Texture — fine-grained,  firm. 

3  Juicy — not  dry. 

4  Fat — straw-colored,  abundant,    distributed    through    the 

tissue  of  the  meat. 

5  Bone  not  large  in  proportion  to  meat. 

6  Odor — slight  but  pleasant. 

7  Connective  tissue  not  abundant. 

8  Cuts  made  across  grain  where  possible. 

Because  of  the  large  size  of  the  beef  animal  (450  to  600 
pounds  for  family  use,  900  to  1000  pounds  for  hotel  use)  it  is 
divided  into  many  cuts  that  can  be  cooked  in  a  great  variety  of 
ways.  The  housekeeper  can  secure  variet\"  for  the  table  by 
making:  use  of  the  various  cuts. 


♦v. 


145 

Principal  Cuts  Shown  in  Illustration  on  Opposite  Page 


1   Shank  or  leg 

10  Plate 

2   Shoulder 

11   Flank 

3   Brisket 

12  Loin 

4  Knee  Bone 

13  Rump 

5  Neck 

14  Round 

6  Short  Ribs  or  Cross  Ribs 

15  Horse  Shoe  Piece 

7  Chuck  Ribs 

16  Soup  Bone 

8  Prime  Ribs 

17  Tail 

9  Navel 

Cuts   of    Beef 

The  beef  animal  is  divided  down  the  middle  of  the  back 
bone  into  two  halves  called  sides,  and  each  side  is  divided  into 
two  parts  called  quarters. 

THE  FORE  QUARTER 

The  fore  quarter  is  all  that  portion  of  the  side  lying  in 
front  of  and  including  the  last  rib.  In  some  markets  the  last 
rib  is  not  included  in  the  fore  quarter. 

The  "Shank"  or  "Leg"  is  the  first  cut  of  the  fore  quarter. 
It  is  used  for  soup  bone.  The  shank  contains  the  "marrow 
bone"  which  is  the  middle  portion  of  the  shank  bone.  This  is 
sometimes  cooked  and  served  on  toast. 

The  "Shoulder  Clod"  or  "Round  Shoulder  Piece"  is  the 
next  cut;  this  is  divided  into  two  cuts,  each  about  three  inches 
thick.  The  second  or  upper  cut  is  best.  The  "Shoulder  Clod" 
is  used  for  pot-roast. 

The  "Shoulder"  contains  two  distinct  layers  of  meat  which 
are  separated  and  boned,  and  used  for  cheap  roasts,  and  pot- 
roasts.  The  inner  portion  of  the  shoulder  from  which  the  ribs 
are  removed  is  the  better. 

The  "Brisket"  is  the  cut  just  in  front  of  the  shoulder.  The 
ends  of  five  ribs  are  included  in  the  brisket.    The  ribs  are  taken 


146 


out  and  the  meat  is  sold  as  rolled  roast,  or  corned  and  sold  as 
boneless  brisket. 

The  "Knee  Bone"  just  above  the  brisket  is  a  round  bone 
surrounded  by  much  gelatin  but  contains  little  marrow.  It  is 
sold  for  soup. 

The  "Neck"  is  used  for  stews,  soup,  and  mince-meat. 

The  diaphram  which  lies  inside  the  fore-quarter  separating 
the  lungs  from  the  intestines  is  called  "Skirt  Steak."  It  is 
removed  whole,  stuffed,  rolled  and  braized,  or  cooked  as  pot- 
roast. 

The  "Short  Ribs"  or  "Cross  Ribs"  lie  just  above  the  bris- 
ket. They  are  divided  into  two  narrow  cuts  which  are  used  for 
roasting  and  are  served  with  browned  potatoes. 

The  "Chuck  Ribs"  include  the  first  six  ribs  back  of  the 
neck.  They  are  sometimes  trimmed  for  steaks  or  roasts,  but 
make  poor  roasts;  hence  they  are  usually  boned  and  rolled,  and 
used  in  braizing,  pot  roasting,  and  stewing. 

The  last  seven  ribs  are  called  the  "Prime  Ribs"  or  "Short 
Ribs."  They  are  used  for  choice  roasts,  the  last  five  giving  the 
best  cuts.  The  sixth  or  seventh  ribs  contain  some  cartilage  from 
the  shoulder  blade,  and  more  connective  tissue,  hence  are  not  so 
desirable. 

The  "Navel  End"  lies  just  back  of  the  brisket  and  shoul- 
der, and  is  used  for  soup  meat,  boiling,  hash,  or  corning. 

The  "Plate"  which  lies  just  above  the  navel  and  includes 
the  lower  portion  of  the  ribs  is  used  in  the  same  ways  as  the 
navel. 

THE  HIND  QUARTER 

The  hind  quarter  of  beef  is  all  that  portion  of  the  side 
lying  back  of  the  last  rib.  In  some  markets  the  last  rib  is 
included  in  the  hind  quarter. 

The  "Flank  Steak"  is  the  first  portion  to  be  removed  from 


147 


the  hind  quarter.  It  is  a  large  flat  muscle  imbedded  in  fat.  It 
is  sold  whole  and  is  stuffed  and  rolled,  or  doubled  up  and 
braized. 

The  "Tip  of  Flank"  is  the  thick  portion  lying  just  back 
of  plate,  and  is  cut  up  for  beef  stews. 

Inside  the  hind  quarter  is  the  "Cod  fat,"  a  soft  fat  sur- 
rounding the  muscles,  used  for  beef  drippings. 

The  "Suet"  is  a  hard  fat  which  lies  about  the  kidneys,  and 
is  used  for  shortening,  suet  puddings,  etc. 

The  "Kidneys"  lie  embedded  in  the  suet  under  the  loin. 
There  is  one  kidney  in  each  hind  quarter.  The  kidneys  are  pre- 
pared as  a  stew. 

The  "Loin"  which  extends  from  the  last  rib  to  the  rump  is 
used  for  steaks  and  roasts. 

The  "Club  Steaks,"  "Short  Steaks,,"  or  "Delmonico  Steaks" 
are  the  first  cuts  of  the  loin.  If  cut  three  inches  thick  there  are 
just  two  club  steaks. 

The  "Porterhouse  Steaks"  lie  back  of  the  club  steaks.  They 
contain  more  fat  and  tenderloin  than  any  of  the  other  steaks. 
There  are  four  or  five  Porterhouse  steaks. 

The  "Sirloin  Steaks"  lie  back  of  the  Porterhouse. 

The  sirloin  cuts  include  two  or  three  Pin-Bone  Steaks, 
two  Flat  Bone  Steaks(the  most  choice  cuts  of  the  Sirloin),  and 
about  three  Round  Bone  Steaks. 

The  "Tenderloin"  lies  under  the  bones  of  the  loin.  It  is  a 
long  tapering  muscle  beginning  just  back  of  the  ribs,  and 
extending  to  the  rump.  It  is  usually  included  in  the  loin  steaks 
but  is  also  removed  separately  and  used  for  broiling  or  roasting. 
It  is  a  very  expensive  cut. 

The  "Rump"  lying  just  back  of  the  loin  is  used  for  pot 
roasts  and  corned  beef.  The  lower  part  of  the  rump  towards  the 
round  contains  poorer  meat,  and  is  sold  for  a  lower  price. 

The   "Round"   which  lies  just  under  the  rump,   is  used 


148 


principally  for  steaks.  It  may  be  divided  into  as  many  as 
twenty-five  steaks.  It  is  also  excellent  to  use  in  the  preparation 
of  beef  tea.  The  "Upper  Round"  is  the  inner  portion  which  al- 
ways lies  uppermost  on  the  block.  The  "Lower  Round"  is  the 
outer  portion  and  rests  against  the  block. 

The  middle  cut  of  the  leg,  called  the  "Horse  Shoe  Piece,"  is 
used  for  pot  roasts  and  mince  meat. 

The  "Shank,"  or  "Soup  Bone,"  is  the  lower  portion  of  the 
hind  leg. 

The  tail  is  used  for  soup. 

The  bones  which  are  removed  in  boning  and  trimming 
meat  are  scrapped  and  the  small  pieces  of  lean  and  fat  are  all 
used  in  Hamburg  steak. 

As  sold  in  the  market  the  cuts  are  usually  weighed  before 
trimming. 

The  bones  are  sold  to  the  bone  man  and  ground  up  for 
chicken  food ;  the  waste  fat  is  used  for  making  soap. 

VEAL 

Veal  is  the  name  applied  to  the  meat  from  the  young  calf 
of  from  6  weeks  to  9  months  old.  Meat  from  a  younger  animal 
is  very  unwholesome  and  its  use  is  prohibited  by  law.  "Bob- 
veal"  is  the  name  given  to  the  flesh  of  a  calf  four  weeks  old — 
sometimes  sold  illegally. 

Not  only  the  flesh  but  also  the  heart,  tongue,  liver,  kidneys, 
sweetbreads,  and  brains  of  the  veal  are  used  as  food. 

Veal  is  in  season  in  the  spring  and  early  summer  but  can 
usually  be  obtained  from  the  market  throughout  the  year. 

Veal  is  not  improved  by  long  hanging  but  should  be  eaten 
soon  after  killing  and  dressing.  In  general  the  flesh  of  the 
young  animal  does  not  keep  so  long  as  that  of  the  mature  animal. 

The  cuts  of  veal  differ  from  those  of  beef,  being  fewer  in 


149 


number.  There  are  only  six  general  cuts,  the  breast,  shoulder, 
neck,  leg,  loin,  and  knuckles. 

The  chuck  portion  is  usually  included  in  the  shoulder  and 
neck. 

The  plate  is  included  in  the  breast. 

The  rump  is  included  in  the  loin  or  leg. 

Chops  are  cut  from  the  loin. 

Cutlets,  steaks,  fillet,  and  fricandeau  or  cushion  are  taken 
from  the  thick  part  of  the  leg. 

The  rack  includes  all  the  ribs  on  both  sides. 

Good  veal  should  have  a  fine  grained,  pinkish  colored  flesh; 
clear,  firm,  white  fat;  and  hard,  good-sized  bones.  The  meat 
of  an  animal  which  is  too  young  is  white  and  lacks  in  flavor. 
The  same  is  true  of  an  animal  which  has  been  bled  before  kill- 
ing. Veal  which  appears  soft,  flabby,  gelatinous,  blue,  and 
watery  is  poor. 

Veal  from  a  milk  fed  calf  is  best;  that  from  a  grass  fed 
is  poorest. 

Veal  is  never  a  cheap  food  because  of  the  large  amount  of 
fuel  required  to  cook  it  thoroughly  and  the  comparatively  small 
amount  of  nourishment  it  .contains. 

In  composition  veal  is  lacking  in  fats  but  is  rich  in  protein 
and  contans  more  gelatin  than  beef.  It  does  not  contain  the 
valuable  extractives  present  in  beef. 

Veal  is  very  unwholesome  unless  thoroughly  cooked. 

Because  it  is  lacking  in  fat,  pork  and  other  fats  are  fre- 
quently combined  with  it  in  cooking. 

It  is  well  to  accompany  veal  with  rich,  well-seasoned  dres- 
sings; such  seasonings  as  bay  leaf,  peppercorn,  parsley  and  Wor- 
cestershire sauce  are  good  additions. 

Veal  is  seldom  served  plain  boiled  because  of  its  lack  of 
flavor,  but  it  is  often  used  in  well-seasoned  stews. 

The  general  modes  of  cooking  veal  include: 


150 


Shoulder — Stew  or  roast. 

Neck — Stew  or  soup. 

Breast — Roast  or  stew. 

Leg — Cutlets  for  frying. 

Loin — Chops  for  broiling  or  roasts. 

Knuckles — Soup  (most  valuable  in  soup  because  of 
large  amount  of  gelatine). 

Head — Soup. 
Veal  is  very  difficult  of  digestion  because  of  the  tenacity  of 
its  fibers  which  renders  it  difficult  of  mastication.     Because  it 
is  immature  it  is  lacking  in  salts  and  flavor,  and  the  flow  of 
gastric  juice  is  not  excited. 

Veal  ranks  low  among  the  heat  producing  foods  because  of 
lack  of  fat.  Because  of  the  difficulty  of  digesting  it,  it  is  not 
a  valuable  meat  for  food. 

MUTTON 

Mutton  is  the  meat  of  sheep  from  three  to  five  years  old. 
The  best  English  mutton  is  taken  from  a  sheep  six  years  old. 
Lamb  is  the  meat  of  young  sheep  of  from  six  weeks  to  three 
months  old.  When  one  year  old,  lamb  is  spoken  of  as  yearling. 
Mutton  is  raised  throughout  the  United  States.  Mutton  is  mar- 
keted throughout  the  year.  Spring  lamb  is  in  season  through  the 
spring  and  summer  beginning  with  February  and  March. 

Mutton  is  hung  from  three  to  six  weeks  before  using  in 
order  to  ripen  or  develop  flavor. 

Lamb  should  not  be  kept  long  after  killing. 

Cuts   of   Mutton 

The  animal  is  first  split  down  the  backbone,  then  divided 
into  fore  and  hind  quarters. 

There  are  usually  six  divisions  of  cuts  of  mutton — the  neck, 
chuck,  shoulder,  flank,  loin  and  leg,  or,  neck,  shoulder,  breast, 
rib  chops,  loin,  and  leg. 


151 


The  loin  and  leg  together  are  sometimes  known  as  the 
haunch. 

The  two  loins,  if  not  separated,  form  the  saddle.  The  long 
saddle  has  the  rump  and  tail  left  on;  the  short  saddle  consists 
only  of  the  loins. 

The  ribs  and  loin  together  form  the  rack. 

The  small  cuts  from  the  ribs  and  loin  are  known  as  chops. 
Those  from  the  last  eight  ribs  nearest  the  loin  are  the  best  but 
all  the  rib  chops  have  a  large  amount  of  waste  and  are  very 
expensive  cuts. 

French  chops  are  rib  chops  with  the  end  of  the  bone 
trimmed  off. 

The  leg  is  the  most  economical  cut  for  a  large  family,  as 
there  is  but  little  waste. 

The  flesh  of  sheep  is  fine  grained  with  a  shorter  fiber 
than  beef.  The  meat  from  the  grain  or  grass-fattened  mutton 
has  the  best  flavor. 

Good  mutton  should  have  a  dull  red  or  deep  pink  color; 
it  should  be  firm  to  the  touch  but  juicy.  The  fat  should  be 
abundant  and  be  in  little  lines  through  the  flesh.  The  fat  is 
white,  hard,  and  flaky  containing  a  large  per  cent  of  stearin. 
There  is  usually  a  thick  layer  of  fat  on  the  back  and  legs. 
The  bones  should  be  small. 

Good  lamb  will  be  a  little  less  firm  than  mutton,  more 
whitish  in  color,  but  the  flesh  should  be  clear,  the  fat  white. 

Lamb  will  be  more  fat  than  veal  and  mutton. 

The  bones  in  lamb  chops  are  more  pink  and  flexible  than 
in  mutton. 

The  bone  at  the  leg  joint  in  lamb  is  rough  and  serrated — 
in  mutton  it  is  smooth  and  round. 

Lamb  is  more  expensive  than  mutton  and  the  cuts  are 
smaller  with  more   waste. 

In  chemical  composition  mutton  closely  resembles   beef; 


152 


the  per  cent  of  fat  in  mutton  may  be  higher  than  in  beef. 

Mutton  requires  more  care  in  handling  and  cooking  than 
beef. 

Improper  cooking  and  low  grade  mutton  have  developed 
a  strong  prejudice  against  mutton  with  many  people. 

If  the  thick,  tough  membrane  just  inside  the  outer  skin 
enveloping  the  animal  is  left  on,  it  gives  a  "wooly  flavor"  to 
the  meat  as  the  oil  strikes  through.  This  skin  should  be  re- 
moved when  the  meat  is  prepared  for  cooking. 

Mutton  is  not  liable  to  disease  and  mutton  chops  may  be 
served  rare.  Though  lamb  is  delicate  and  tender,  it  must  be 
well-cooked  to  be  wholesome. 

The  meat  of  the  fore-quarter  or  shoulder  is  boned  and 
stuffed  for  roasting. 

The  neck,  breast,  and  flank  are  used  for  stews,  pot  pies^ 
and  boiling. 

The  neck  is  also  used  for  broth. 

The  portion  above  the  hoof  called  "Sheep's  Trotters"  is 
used  in  Jellies,  Pickling,  and  Sousing. 

The  ribs,  loin,  leg,  and  rump  may  be  used  for  roasting. 
The  ribs  and  loin  are  more  frequently  cut  into  chops  for  broiling. 

The  leg  is  one  of  the  best  roasts  and  is  also  excellent  for 
boiling. 

To  counteract  the  effect  of  the  large  amount  of  fat  in 
mutton  it  is  served  with  acid  sauces — mint,  caper,  tomato,  highly 
seasoned  curry,  etc. 

It  is  accompanied  with  peas,  asparagus,  new  potatoes,  etc. 

Mutton  ranks  next  to  beef  in  food  value  and  composition 
but  is  a  little  more  difficult  of  digestion;  if  very  fat,  the  mutton 
disagrees  with  some  people. 

PORK 

Pork  differs  from  other  meats  chiefly  in  the  large  amount 
of  fat  distributed  through  the  muscular  fiber.     This  renders 


153 


the  meat  difficult  of  digestion  and  makes  it  a  particularly  valu- 
able food  for  cold  weather  and  for  those  engaged  in  heavy 
muscular  work.  Pork  must  always  be  thoroughly  cooked.  Under 
no  conditions  should  it  be  served  rare.  The  fatty  tissue  of 
pork  provides  one  of  the  most  valuable  fats  for  cooking  pur- 
poses. 

COOKING  OF  MEATS 

When  meat  is  to  be  used,  it  should  be  weighed,  trimmed, 
and  wiped  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water. 

Meat  is  cooked  to  develop  the  extractives,  to  improve  the 
appearance,  to  soften  the  connective  tissue,  and  to  destroy  germs. 

Methods  of  cooking  include  broiling,  roasting  or  baking, 
braising  or  pot  roasting,  boiling  or  stewing,  and  soup  making. 

Time  for  cooking  meats  will  vary  with  the  kind  of  meat, 
the  cut  used,  the  method  of  cooking  employed,  and  the  con- 
dition of  the  fiber. 

Dark  meats  may  be  served  rare;  light  meats  should  always 
be  well  done. 

To  Cook  Tender  Cuts  of  Meat 

Tender  cuts  of  meat  taken  from  the  loin,  ribs,  or  round 
are  best  cooked  by  dry  heat  because  of  the  flavors  developed. 

Broiling,  pan-broiling  and  roasting  are  all  methods  of 
cooking  by  dry  heat. 

When  meat  is  to  be  cooked  by  any  of  these  methods  it  is 
first  seared  by  exposure  to  a  high  heat,  then  the  temperature  is 
slightly  lowered  and  the  meat  is  cooked  at  this  temperature  till 
done.  By  searing,  the  albumen  on  the  outside  of  the  meat  is 
hardened  forming  a  crust  so  that  the  juices  of  the  meat  cannot 
escape. 

To  Cook  Tough  Cuts  of  Meat 

The  tougher  cuts  of  meat  must  be  cooked  by  a  moist  heat 
for  a  long  time  slowly  in  order  to  soften  and  dissolve  the  con- 
nective tissue. 


154 


The  methods  of  cooking  by  moist  heat  are  known  as: 

Braising  or  Pot  Roasting — a  small  amount  of  water  is 
used  and  the  kettle  is  closely  covered  so  that  the  steam  is  all 
retained. 

Boiling — a  large  quantity  of  boiling  water  is  used  so  that 
the  meat  is  entirely  immersed. 

Stewing — the  meat  is  cut  up  and  covered  with  water  which 
is  flavored  and  seasoned  and  served  with  the  meat. 

Soup-making — a  large  quantity  of  cold  water  is  put  over 
the  meat,  which  is  well  cut  up,  the  juices  of  the  meat  are  ex- 
tracted, and  only  the  stock  is  served. 

To  Render  or  Try  Out  Fat 

Remove  tough  outside  skin  and  lean  parts  from  any  animal 
fat  and  then  cut  into  small  pieces.  Put  fat  into  a  sauce  pan, 
cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  uncovered  so  that  steam  may 
carry  oft'  impurities.  When  water  has  all  evaporated  simmer  to 
let  fat  fry  out  slowly  from  membrane.  When  fat  is  still  and 
scraps  of  skin  are  all  shrivelled,  strain  through  a  cloth  and  cool. 

To  Clarify  Fat 

Add  a  few  slices  of  raw  potato  to  fat  when  it  is  rather  cool 
and   heat   it   gradually   until   potato   is   well-browned.      Strain 
through  muslin  or  a  double  thickness  of  cheesecloth  placed  in 
a  wire  strainer.     Cool  quickly  and  then  cover. 
To  Wash   Frying   Kettle 

W^ipe  kettle  out  with  newspaper.  Fill  nearly  full  of  water 
and  add  1  tablespoon  washing  soda.     Heat  until  water  boils. 

Put  in  all  the  utensils  that  have  been  used  in  the  fat.  Then 
wash  them  thoroughly. 

Broiling 

Remove  extra  fat  from  the  meat  and  grease  the  broiler 
with  some  of  the  fat.     Place  meat  on  broiler  and  broil  directly 


155 


over  a  clear  fire,  searing  first  on  each  side  and  then  turning 
every  10  seconds.  Cook  until  well-puffed  and  brown.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter.  Time 
for  broiling  varies  with  thickness  of  the  meat.  Cook  a  1-inch 
steak  8  to  10  minutes;  1^-inch  steak,  10  to  15  minutes;  2 -inch 
steak,  15  to  20  minutes. 

Pan-Broiling 

Remove  fat  from  the  meat.  Heat  a  frying  pan  smoking 
hot  without  adding  any  fat.  Sear  the  meat  on  both  sides,  de- 
crease heat,  then  cook  more  slowly  until  done,  turning  every  ten 
seconds.  Stand  chops  on  edge  to  brown.  Keep  the  pan  free 
from  excess  fat.  The  time  for  pan-broiling  is  the  same  as  for 
broiling. 

Roasting 

Skewer  meat  in  shape,  lay  it  on  a  rack  in  a  meat  pan, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  sear  in  a 
very  hot  oven.  The  oven  should  be  hot  enough  to  color  a 
piece  of  unglazed  white  paper  to  golden  brown  in  one  minute. 
After  ten  minutes  lower  the  heat  of  the  oven  and  baste  the 
meat  every  ten  minutes  with  fat  from  the  pan. 

Time   for  Roasting 

Rib  Roast,  Rare 10-12  min.  per  lb. 

Rib  Roast,  Well  done •  .  . .  .  18-20  min.  per  lb. 

Rolled  Roast,  Rare 12-15  min.  per  lb. 

Rolled  Roast,  Well  done 20-22  min.  per  lb. 

Brown  Gravy  to  serve  with  Roasted  or  Broiled  Meat 

4  tablespoons  fat  %  teaspoon  pepper 

4  tablespoons  flour  1^  cup  boiling  water  or 

^  teaspoon  salt  stock 

Use  fat  from  the  dripping  pan  in  which  meat  has  been 
roasted   or   broiled,   add   flour   and  seasonings,   and   stir  until 


156 


browned.    Then  add  boiling  liquid  slowly  and  stir  until  smooth 
and  bubbling. 

Season  with  Worcestershire  sauce  if  desired.    Serves   12. 

Boiled  Meat 

To  boil  meat  place  a  compact  piece  of  meat  in  boiling 
water  and  allow  the  water  to  boil  for  10  to  15  minutes,  then 
simmer  until  tender.  All  tough  meat  may  be  made  tender  if 
cooked  in  this  way.  Time  for  cooking  meat  in  water  varies 
with  the  weight  and  quality  of  meat;  allow  20  minutes  to  the 
pound,  and  20  minutes  extra  for  a  large  piece. 

Gravy    for   Boiled  Meat 

Yz  cup  flour  1  cup  cold  water 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  quart  boiling  stock 

Pepper 

Twenty  minutes  before  the  boiled  meat  is  to  be  served,, 
moisten  the  flour  and  seasonings  for  the  gravy  with  cold  water 
and  stir  until  smooth.  Add  slowly  to  the  boiling  liquid  in 
which  the  meat  is  cooking,  stir  vigorously,  then  cook  slowly  for 
the  remaining  twenty  minutes. 

Hamburg    Steak 

1  lb.  lean  beef  (from  round)        1  teaspoon  onion  juice 
^  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

y^  teaspoon  pepper 

Chop  meat  fine  or  run  through  a  meat  grinder.  Season^ 
shape  in  small  flat  cakes,  and  pan-broil,  just  rubbing  frying 
pan  with  fat.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Beef  Loaf  or  Veal  Loaf 

3  lbs.  beef  or  veal  chopped  1>^  tablespoons  butter  or 

fine  other  fat 

Yz  lb.  salt  pork  chopped  fine  3  eggs 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tablespoons  milk 


157 


Mix  and  shape  into  a  loaf.  Place  in  a  roasting  pan  and 
just  before  baking  pour  1  cup  hot  water  over  loaf.  Roast  1^ 
hours,  basting  every  10  minutes.  Loaf  may  be  wrapped  in 
heav}'  buttered  paper  before  putting  in  pan.     Serves  10  to  12. 

Beef  or  Veal  Stew 

2  lbs.  beef  or  veal  from  leg      ^  cup  carrot  cut  in  dice 

or  shoulder  4  potatoes  cut  in  }^  in. 
1  quart  water  slices 

Salt,  pepper,  flour  to  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

dredge  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  onion  cut  in  slices  Yz  cup  flour 

^  cup  turnip  cut  in  dice  ^  cup  cold  water 

Remove  fat  and  cut  the  meat  into  1-inch  pieces.  Reserve 
half  of  the  best  pieces  of  meat,  put  the  rest  of  the  meat  and  the 
bone  into  cold  water,  soak  for  1  hour,  then  heat  until  it  bubbles. 
Season  half  the  raw  meat  and  roll  it  in  the  flour;  melt  the  fat 
in  a  frying  pan,  remove  the  scraps,  brown  the  sliced  onion,  and 
then  the  floured  meat  in  the  hot  fat,  add  both  to  the  stew  and 
cook  for  2  hours  at  a  low  temperature.  To  this  add  the  vegetables 
and  cook  ^  hour,  then  the  flour  and  seasonings  which  have  been 
mixed  with  ^  cup  cold  water,  and  cook  for  ^  hour  longer 
until  the  meat  and  vegetables  are  tender.  Remove  the  bone  from 
stew,  and  serve.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Pot   Roast  of  Beef 

3  lbs.  beef  round  (a  thick  4  cloves 

chunk)  3  cups  boiling  water 

Flour  ^  cup  each  diced  carrots, 

2  slices  fat  salt  pork  onions,  turnips,  celery 
9  pepper  corns  Pepper  and  salt 

Yi  bay  leaf 

Try  out  pork  and  remove  scraps.     Wipe  meat,  skewer  and 

tie  in  compact  form,  dredge  with  flour,  and  brown  entire  surface 

in  pork  fat.     Place  on  rack  in  pot,  surround  with  vegetables, 

spices  and  boiling  water.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper.    Cover 


158 


closely.  Simmer  4  hours.  Turn  every  second  hour.  Renew 
water  if  necessary.  Strain  liquor  in  pot  and  serve  as  a  sauce  or 
gravy.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Stuffed  Skirt,  Flank,   or  Round   Steak 

2  lbs.  beef  round  steak  or  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

1  skirt  steak  or  1  flank  2  tablespoons  butter,  melted 

steak  2  tablespoons  beef  drippings 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  1  onion,  diced 
2  tablespoons  chopped                 1  carrot,  diced 

parsley  1  sprig  parsley 

1  teaspoon  onion  juice  1  bay  leaf 

2  teaspoons  sweet  marjoram      2  cloves 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  boiling  water 

Add  parsley,  onion  juice,  marjoram,  salt  and  pepper  to 
bread  crumbs  and  add  all  to  melted  butter. 

Wipe  and  trim  steak,  and  spread  dressing  over  it  evenly. 
Roll  up  tightly  and  tie  with  twine. 

Sear  the  rolled  steak  in  the  hot  beef  drippings;  place  in  a 
kettle  or  casserole;  then  surround  with  vegetables,  seasonings, 
and  water;  cover  closely  and  cook  slowly  2  hours,  or  till  meat 
is  tender.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Roast   Veal 

5  lbs.  shoulder  of  veal  ^  teaspoon  thyme 

4  cups  bread  crumbs  Yz  teaspoon  savory 

2  teaspoons  salt  ^^  teaspoon  marjoram 
y^  teaspoon  pepper  4  tablespoons  butter 

Bone  the  shoulder.  Prepare  stuffing  by  adding  seasonings 
to  bread  crumbs,  then  add  all  to  melted  butter.  Fill  the  cavity  in 
shoulder  and  sew  or  skewer  meat  into  shape.  Season  and 
dredge  with  flour. 

Heat  34  cup  fat  in  a  roasting  pan,  and  brown  the  surface 
of  the  roast  in  it.  Then  place  roast  on  a  rack,  and  add  1  cup 
boiling  water,  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven.     Allow  ^  hour  to 


159 


the   pound    for   veal.      To   protect   crust   from   burning,    cover 
with  buttered  paper.     Serves  10  to  12. 

Breaded  Veal   Cutlets 

lYz  lbs.  veal  cutlets  from  1  egg 

round  1  tablespoon  water 

Salt  4  tablespoons  drippings 

Pepper  1  recipe  sauce  for  cutlets 

Fine  bread  crumbs 
Wipe  the  meat  and  cut  in  pieces  for  individual  serving,  re- 
moving bone,  skin,  and  tough  membranes.  Skewer  small  pieces 
of  meat  together  with  wooden  tooth  picks.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  dip  in  egg  (which  has  been 
beaten  with  the  1  tablespoon  water),  then  in  crumbs  again. 
Melt  the  fat  in  a  frying  pan  and  brown  the  cutlets  on  both  sides 
or  fry  in  deep  fat.  Transfer  them  to  a  sauce  pan  and  cover 
with  a  sauce  prepared  according  to  the  following  recipe,  then 
cook  at  a  low  temperature  for  one  hour  or  until  tender,  turning 
occasionally.     Serves  12  to  16. 

Beef  round  may  be  utilized  in  the  same  way. 

Sauce  for  Cutlets 

2  tablespoons  fat  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

^  cup  flour  sauce 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  chopped 

y^  teaspoon  pepper  parsley 

1  pint  stock  or  water 
Melt  fat,  add  flour  and  seasonings,  brown  slightly  then  add 
hot  stock  slowly.  Add  Worcestershire  sauce  and  chopped  parsley 
and  pour  over  cutlets.  (Note — Stock  can  be  prepared  by  cover- 
ing the  bone  and  trimmings  of  the  meat  with  cold  water,  heating 
it,  and  cooking  slowly  2  to  3  hours). 

Meat  Pie 

To  prepare  a  crust  for  meat  pie  follow  the  recipe  for  baking 
powder  biscuits  using  one  half  the  recipe  with  double  the  amount 


160 


of  fat  (two  tablespoons).  Roll  ^  inch  thick  and  place  over  a 
meat  stew  (use  one  half  the  recipe)  that  has  been  cooked  and 
seasoned  and  turned  into  a  baking  dish.  Space  should  be  left 
between  the  crust  and  the  edge  of  the  dish  for  the  escape  of 
steam.  Bake  20  to  30  minutes  browning  nicely  on  top.  Serves 
6  to  8.    See  also  pastry. 

Ragout   of  Mutton 

iy2  lbs.  neck  mutton  2  cloves 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  1^  cup  water  or  stock 

drippings  (boiling) 

Flour  to  dredge  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  onion,  chopped  %.  teaspoon  pepper 

1  carrot,  chopped  3  tablespoons  ilour 

1  sprig  parsley  y^  cup  cold  water 
1  bay  leaf 

Wipe  meat,  cut  in  small  pieces  1  inch  square  and  dredge 
with  flour. 

Heat  fat,  brown  chopped  vegetables,  then  sear  meat.  Cover 
with  boiling  water,  add  seasonings,  cover  kettle,  and  cook  slowly 
for  2  hours  till  meat  is  tender.  Then  add  flour  moistened  with 
cold  water,  stir  and  cook  20  minutes  longer.     Serves  6. 

Curry  of  Mutton 

2  lbs.  neck  mutton  ^  cup  flour 

3  onions,  sliced  ^  teaspoon  salt 

^  teaspoon  peppercorns  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

1  sprig  thyme  ^  tablespoon  curry 
1  sprig  parsley  2  tablespoons  fat 

1  quart  boiling  water 

Boil  mutton  with  vegetables  and  spices  till  tender. 

Make  a  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  salt,  pepper,  curry,  and 
1  pint  liquor  from  meat.  Add  meat,  reheat,  and  serve  with 
boiled  rice.     Serves  6  to  8. 


161 


Boiled  Mutton 

^^'ipe  meat,  remove  the  pink  skin  and  extra  fat,  and  put 
into  boiling  water,  boil  15  minutes,  add  1  tablespoon  salt  and 
cook  at  a  low  temperature  until  tender,  allowing  20  minutes  for 
every  pound. 

Boiled  Ham,  Tongue,  or  Calf's  Heart 

After  cleaning  meat  thoroughly  put  in  cold  water  and  heat 
gradually  until  the  water  bubbles,  then  cook  at  a  low  tem- 
perature until  tender;  remove  from  the  fire  and  allow  to  stand 
in  the  water  in  which  it  was  cooked  for  one  hour;  remove  from 
the  water  and  draw  off  the  skin.  A  boiled  ham  may  be  covered 
with  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  2  tablespoons  brown  sugar,  and 
then  placed  in  the  oven  ^  hour  to  brown.  Baste  with  ^  cup 
\'inegar  and  4  tablespoons  brown  sugar  while  in  oven. 

Corned  Beef 

Put  corned  beef  in  cold  w-ater;  cook  slowly  for  several 
hours  till  tender;  let  stand  in  stock  15  to  20  minutes.  Then 
take  out  bone,  and  if  to  be  served  cold,  press  into  shape  by  cover- 
ing with  a  weight  so  that  it  will  slice  well. 

Baked  Heart 

1  beef  heart  2  teaspoons  butter  or 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  other  fat 
1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley             1  egg 

1  teaspoon  summer  savory  2  tablespoons  beef 

1  teaspoon  salt  drippings 

%  teaspoon  pepper 

Add  seasoning  to  bread  crumbs,  then  add  to  melted  butter, 
stir  beaten  egg  in  and  mix  thoroughly.- 

Wash  heart  thoroughly,  removing  veins,  arteries,  and 
clotted  blood  carefully.  Stuff  wdth  dressing,  and  sew  up.  Saute 
in  beef  drippings.     Partiall}-  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook 


162 


in  covered   kettle   several  hours  till  heart   is  perfectly  tender. 
Then  set  in  oven  for  a  few  minutes.     Serves  10  to  12. 

Braised   Tongue 

1  boiled  tongue  ^  cup  carrots,  diced 

Yz  cup  onion,  diced  ^  cup  celery,  diced 

1  sprig  parsley  3  cups  water 

Put  tongue  in  baking  dish,  surround  with  vegetables  and 
water.      Cover  dish   closely   and  bake  two  hours.     Serve   with 
brown  sauce,  tomato,  or  njushroom  sauce.    Serves  12  to  16. 
Brown   Sauce   for   Braised   Tongue 

2  tablespoons  fat  2  cups  water  from  dish  in 
4  tablespoons  flour  which  tongue  is  baked 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

y^  teaspoon  pepper  sauce 

Melt  fat,  add  flour  and  seasonings,  and  cook  until  a  gold- 
en brown,  then  add  hot  water  slowly.  When  it  boils  up  and 
is  thick,  add  Worcestershire  sauce  and  serve. 

Kidney  Stew 

1  calf  kidney  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  small  onion  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  tablespoon  chopped 
2  tablespoons  flour  parsley 

1  pint  boiling  water 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  or  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce 

Soak  kidney  in  cold  water  1  hour.  Peel  and  slice  onion; 
cut  kidney  in  small  slices  and  brown  quickly  with  onion  and 
butter.  Add  flour  and  stir  until  brown,  then  pour  in  boiling 
water  slowly.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  and  stew  gently  for 
10  minutes.  Add  parsley,  vinegar  or  sauce  and  serve.  The  en- 
tire operation  should  be  finished  in  about  twenty  minutes,  be- 
cause kidney  grows  tough  if  cooked  too  long.    Serves  6  to  8. 


163 


Creamed   Chipped  Beef 

1^  lb.  dried  beef,  chipped  3  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  Pepper 

other  fat  1  ^  cup  hot  milk 

Cover  the  beef  with  boiling  water  for  3  minutes,  then  drain 
all  water  off. 

Heat  1  tablespoon  butter  and  brown  beef  in  it  until  it  is 
curled. 

Remove  meat  from  pan,  putting  it  in  a  dish  to  keep  warm, 
and  add  remaining  1  tablespoon  butter  to  frying  pan.  Make 
a  sauce  by  adding  flour,  pepper,  and  milk;  stir  meat  in;  add  salt 
if  necessary.     Serves  6  to  8. 

LIVER 

The  livers  of  many  animals  are  used  for  food.  Those  of 
the  beef,  calf,  and  lamb  are  most  commonly  used. 

The  liver  is  one  of  the  cheap  animal  f^ods  unless  there  is  a 
great  demand  for  it,  then  the  price  is  higher. 

Liver  is  solid  and  compact  in  form  and  contains  but  little 
connective  tissue,  though  a  tough  skin  covers  it  and  the  veins 
which  pass  through  it  have  very  tough  walls. 

In  preparing  liver  it  is  necessary  to  wash  and  scald  it 
thoroughly  and  to  remove  the  outer  skin  and  veins  carefully. 
There  is  but  little  waste. 

Liver  is  sauted,  stewed,  and  baked.  If  cooked  too  long  it 
toughens. 

It  is  well  to  serve  liver  with  an  accompaniment  of  heat- 
producing  foods — hence,  it  is  usually  accompanied  by  bacon  and 
starchy  food  such  as  potato  and  flour  gravy. 

Liver  is  rather  difficult  of  digestion  because  so  compact 
in  form. 

Its  nutritive  value  is  high — rather  higher 'than  that  of 
muscular  tissue. 


164 


To  Cook  Liver 

Cover  slices  of  liver  cut  ^  inch  thick  with  boiling  water, 
let  stand  5  minutes,  drain,  wipe,  and  remove  the  thin  outside 
skin  and  veins  carefully  with  a  knife.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  cook  until  brown  in  bacon  fat. 

BACON 

Bacon  is  prepared  from  the  flanks  of  pork,  salted,  dried, 
and  smoked. 

Bacon  is  an  expensive  form  of  food. 

Sliced  and  packed  in  jars  it  is  still  more  expensive  and 
only  desirable  when  bacon  in  the  strips  will  not  keep  well. 

Bacon  consists  largely  of  fat,  though  it  contains  some  layers 
of  lean  or  muscular  tissue. 

Before  cooking  bacon  the  rind  should  be  removed,  all  ex- 
posed surfaces  scrapejd  with  a  knife  and  the  bacon  sliced  in  thin 
even  slices  for  cooking. 

Bacon  is  broiled,  pan-broiled,  and  baked  in  the  oven.  It 
should  be  cooked  until  crisp  so  that  it  can  be  readily  acted  upon 
by  the  digestive  juices. 

Next  to  butter  and  cream  bacon  is  the  most  easily  digested 
of  animal  fats.     It  is  easily  assimilated  and  very  nutritious. 

To  Cook  Bacon 

Place  thin  slices  of  bacon  (from  which  the  rind  has  been 
removed) in  a  hot  frying  pan  and  pour  off  the  fat  as  fast  as  it 
comes  out.  When  the  bacon  is  crisp,  drain  on  paper.  Keep 
hot.  Or  lay  bacon  on  a  rack  in  a  baking  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  until  crisp. 

SWEETBREADS 

Sweetbread  is  the  term  applied  to  the  thymus  gland  of  the 
calf.     This  gland  becomes  so  changed  as  not  to  be  edible  when 


165 


the  animal  grows  older;  in  some  animals  it  may  eventually  be 
absorbed. 

The  sweetbread  is  obtained  in  pairs  because  there  are  two 
parts  of  the  thymus  gland  which  are  connected  by  tubing  and 
membrane.  That  portion  known  as  the  heart  sweetbread  lies 
over  the  heart;  it  is  short  and  thick.  The  throat  sweetbread  is 
long  and  narrow  and  runs  up  into  the  throat.  It  contains  more 
membrane  than  the  heart  sweetbread  and  is  not  so  desirable. 

The  pancreas,  known  as  the  stom.ach  sweetbread,  is  often 
substituted  for  the  true  sweetbreads.  It  is  more  compact  and 
not  so  delicate  as  true  sweetbreads.  Calves'  brains  are  also  often 
substituted  for  sweetbreads.  Pork  sweetbreads  are  sometimes 
substituted  for  calves  sweetbreads  but  they  are  coarse,  dark,  and 
undesirable. 

Sweetbreads  are  in  season  in  the  spring  and  summer  when 
veal  is  most  abundant.  Though  they  can  be  obtained  at  other 
seasons  they  are  usually  not  so  good. 

The  sweetbreads  are  removed  frcm  the  veal  before  it  is  cut 
up.  If  they  are  not  to  be  used  at  once  they  are  placed  in  cold 
storage. 

Sweetbreads  should  be  white,  firm,  and  plump.  Those  from 
the  milk-fed  calf  are  best.  If  dark,  flabby,  and  tough  the  sweet- 
breads have  been  taken  from  an  improperly  fed  animal. 

Sweetbreads  are  cheapest  in  the  summer  time.  In  some  mar- 
kets they  are  sold  by  the  pair  but  they  are  frequently  sold  by  the 
pound. 

Sweetbreads  are  cellular  organs,  much  more  delicate  than 
the  muscle  fiber.  The  connective  tissue  which  surrounds  them 
can  be  easily  removed  after  they  are  parboiled  and  the  sweet- 
bread is  readily  divided  into  sections. 

Sweetbreads  should  be  parboiled  as  soon  as  they  come  from 
the  market;  they  may  then  be  kept  from  30  to  40  hours  if  kept 
very  cold. 


166 


Before  cooking  it  is  always  necessary  to  soak  sweetbreads 
one-half  to  one  hour  in  cold  water  in  order  to  draw  out  all  the 
blood  which  may  darken  them  when  cooked.  The  pipes,  fat, 
and  all  bruised  portions  must  be  cut  away  before  cooking. 

To  parboil  sweetbreads  plunge  them  in  boiling  water  and 
boil  gently  15  to  20  minutes. 

In  order  to  blanch  sweetbreads  more  perfectly  a  little  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar  is  often  added  to  the  water  in  parboiling. 

Onions   and   spices   are   sometimes   added   to   the   water   in 
parboiling  to  improve  the  flavor. 

After  parboiling,  the  sweetbreads  should  be  plunged  in  cold 
water  to  quickly  cool  so  that  they  will  be  firm. 

The  methods  of  cooking  sweetbreads  are  creaming,  broiling, 
breading  and  frying,  baking,  and  parboiling  for  use  in  salads. 

Sometimes  the  sweetbreads  are  left  in  the  breast  and  cooked 
with  the  roast  of  veal. 

The  delicate  flavor  of  the  sweetbreads  must  always  be 
borne  in  mind  in  cooking  and  seasoning  them. 

Sweetbreads  are  among  the  most  easily  digested  foods. 
Their  digestion  takes  place  very  quickly  because  the  connective 
tissue  which  they  contain  is  readily  dissolved  in  the  stomach. 
As  the  gland  itself  contains  some  digestive  ferment,  sweetbreads 
may  be  said  to  be  partly  self -digesting. 

While  sweetbreads  may  be  classed  with  meats  among  the 
protein  foods  they  are  not  so  stimulating  as  meats  because 
they  are  lacking  in  extractives. 

Because  of  the  ease  with  which  sweetbreads  can  be  di- 
gested and  because  of  their  high  nutritive  value  they  are  a 
valuable  dish  in  the  diet  of  a  convalescent. 

To  Cook  Sweetbreads 

Remove  sweetbreads  from  paper  at  once,  soak  in  cold 
water  30  minutes  and  parboil  20  minutes.    Add  1  teaspoon  salt 


167 


5  minutes  before  they  are  done.  Put  them  in  cold  water  for 
15  minutes,  then  remove  the  tough  portions.  Broil,  fry,  cream, 
or  use  the  boiled  sweetbreads  in  salads  as  desired. 

Creamed  S'weetbreads 

1  pound  or  1  pair  of  sweetbreads,  boiled. 

5  large  mushrooms  (half  as  many  canned  mush- 
rooms as  there  are  sweetbreads). 
2  tablespoons  butter  Cayenne 

2  tablespoons  flour  White  pepper 


teaspoon  salt  1  cup  cream  or  milk 


Cut  the  boiled  sweetbreads  into  small  pieces  and  chop  the 
mushrooms  fine.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  season- 
ings, and  cream.  Add  the  sweetbreads  and  the  mushrooms  and 
when  hot  serve  in  patty  dishes  or  timbales  or  on  toast.  If  de- 
sired, the  mushrooms  may  be  omitted  and  twice  as  many  sweet- 
breads used.  A  few  drops  of  onion  juice  improve  the  flavor. 
Serves  8  to  10. 

Calf's    Brains 

1  pair  calf's  brains  2  sprigs  thyme 

2  cups  water  or  meat  stock  2  tablespoons  vinegar 
2  cloves  Salt 

2  peppercorns  1  cup  white  sauce 

y2  teaspoon  onion  juice 
Soak  brains  in  cold  water  one  half  hour.  Add  to  boiling 
water  or  stock  with  cloves,  peppercorns,  thyme,  vinegar  and 
salt.  Simmer  gently  one  half  hour.  Drain  and  cool  in  cold 
water.  When  cold  cut  in  dice  and  add  to  white  sauce.  Flavor 
with  onion  juice.     Serve  on  toast.     Serves  6  or  8. 

RULES  FOR  COOKING  OVER  MEATS 

Meat  which  is  to  be  cooked  over  should  be  carefully 
treated  in  reheating  to  prevent  it  becoming  too  dry.  Water  or 
stock  must  be  added  to  provide  moisture.  The  meat  must  be 
well-seasoned  and  attractively  garnished  to  make  it  appetizing. 


168 


If  the  meat  is  to  be  cut  up,  all  fat,  gristle,  bone,  and  skin 
must  be  carefully  removed  and  the  meat  evenly  chopped  or  cut 
in  uniform  pieces  of  attractive  size. 

Cooked  over  meats  should  be  accompanied  by  well-seasoned 
sauces.  Many  attractive  entrees  can  be  prepared  with  cold 
cooked  meat  as  a  basis. 

All  small  pieces  of  cooked  meat  should  be  saved,  and 
utilized  in  this  way  or  added  with  the  bone,  skin,  and  gristle,  to 
the  stock  pot.  All  fat  should  be  utilized  for  drippings  or  for 
soap. 

Browned  Hash 

1  cup  cooked  meat,  chopped       4  tablespoons  fat 

2  cups  mashed  potato  Salt  and  p)epper 
3^  cup  boiling  water  Chopped  parsley 

Onion  juice 

Combine  all  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given  reserving 
one-half  of  the  fat  for  the  frying  pan.  Turn  mixture  into  the 
hot  well-greased  frying  pan,  spread  smooth,  and  cook  over 
moderate  heat  so  that  it  will  brown  slowly,  and  not  burn.  Cook 
y2  hour  without  stirring,  then  fold  like  an  omelet,  slip  from 
the  pan  and  serve  on  a  hot  platter.  The  mixture  may  be  made 
into  small  cakes  ^  inch  thick  and  browned  on  both  sides. 
Serves  6  to  8. 

Note: — Cold  boiled  potatoes  may  be  chopped  and  sub- 
stituted for  the  mashed  potatoes. 

Scalloped  Meat 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  3  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  1  ^  teaspoon  salt 

other   fat  ]/%  teaspoon  pepper 

2  cups  cooked  meat,  chopped  1^  cup  hot  milk  or  stock 

3  tablespoons  fat  Onion  juice  or  parsley 

Prepare  a  sauce  with  fat,  flour,  seasonings,  and  milk  or 
stock.      Line    a    buttered    baking    dish    with    1    cup    buttered 


169 


crumbs,  mix  the  meat  and  sauce,  and  pour  the  crumbs  over  this. 
Cover  top  with  remainder  of  buttered  crumbs  and  brown  in  a 
hot  oven  about  20  minutes.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Casserole  of  Rice  and  Meat 

2  cups  cooked  meat  1  tablespoon  chopped 

1  teaspoon  salt  parsley 

^  teaspoon  pepper  ^  cup  fine  crumbs 
^  teaspoon  onion  juice  4  cups  cooked  rice  ( 1  cup 

1  egg  uncooked) 

Season  the  meat  and  mix  with  the  crumbs  and  beaten  eggs, 
adding  enough  stock  or  w^ater  to  make  it  pack  easily.  Line  a 
mold  or  dish  with  3  cups  rice,  fill  with  the  meat,  cover  with  the 
remainder  of  the  rice,  cover  tightly  and  steam  45  minutes. 
Serve  with  tomato  sauce.     Serves  8  to  10. 

Hash  on  Toast 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  ^  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

other  fat  sauce 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  cooked  potatoes  cut 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  in  dice 

Pepper  2  cups  meat,  cut  in  dice 

2  cups  stock  or  water  6  slices  toast 

Parsley 

Make  a  brown  sauce,  heat  meat  and  potatoes  in  it,  and 
serve  on  toast.  Garnish  with  toast  points  and  parsley.  Serves 
6  to  8. 

Ham  Puff 

1^  cups  chopped  ham  Salt 

1^  cups  mashed  potatoes  Pepper 

3  tablespoons  milk  3  eggs 

Moisten  potatoes  with  enough  milk  to  beat  well,  add 
chopped  ham  and  yolks  of  eggs.  Season  to  taste.  Add  well- 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  to  mixture.     Turn  into  a  buttered  baking 


170 


pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes,  till  nicely  puffed  and 
brown.     Serves  6  to  8. 

POULTRY 

Poultry  is  the  term  given  to  the  domestic  birds  used  as 
food  and  includes  fowls  and  chickens,  turkeys,  tame  ducks  and 
geese.  A  chicken  which  is  more  than  one  year  old  is  known  as 
a  fowl.  A  chicken  which  is  not  more  than  five  months  old  is 
known  as  a  "spring  chicken." 

Fowls  are  always  in  market  but  are  cheapest  through  the 
winter  when  they  are  not  laying  eggs.  Chickens  (spring)  are  in 
market  through  the  summer  and  fall. 

A  chicken  is  known  by  the  soft  feet,  smooth  skin,  and  soft 
cartilage  at  the  end  of  the  breast  bone.  An  abundance  of  fine 
feathers  indicates  a  young  bird,  while  the  presence  of  long 
hairs  denotes  age.  In  a  fowl  the  feet  have  become  hard  and  dry 
wdth  coarse  scales,  and  the  cartilage  at  the  end  of  the  breast- 
bone is  ossified. 

In  fowls  which  have  been  picked  without  scalding  the  skin 
is  in  much  better  condition. 

The  flesh  of  chickens,  fowls,  and  turkeys  has  a  short  fiber 
and  is  not  intermingled  with  fat.  The  fat  is  always  found  under 
the  skin  in  layers  or  in  masses  surrounding  the  intestines.  The 
breast  meat  in  fowls  and  turkeys  has  a  short,  tender  fiber,  the 
meat  on  the  legs  is  darker  and  has  more  flavor.  The  meat  of 
fowls  has  more  flavor  than  that  of  young  chickens. 

Poultry  that  is  to  be  kept  for  some  time  should  first  be 
drawn  and  cleaned  and  kept  very  cold.  After  having  been 
frozen  the  flesh  loses  flavor  and  spoils  very  rapidly  when  thawed. 

Young  chickens  are  broiled  and  fried;  fowls  are  stewed, 
braized  and  roasted.  Poultry  is  very  nutritious  and  is  easily 
digested  if  not  too  fat.  The  white  meat  is  especially  easy  of 
digestion. 


171 


To  Dress   and  Clean   Poultry 

Singe  the  fowl  to  remove  long  hairs  by  holding  over  a  flame 
from  gas,  alcohol,  or  burning  paper.  Cut  off  the  head,  turn 
back  the  skin  and  cut  the  neck  off  quite  close;  take  out  the 
wind  pipe  and  crop,  cutting  off  close  to  the  body.  Cut  through 
the  skin  around  the  leg  Vz  inch  below  the  leg  joint,  take  out 
the  tendons,  and  separate  the  leg  at  the  joint;  in  old  birds  each 
tendon  must  be  removed  separately  by  using  a  skewer.  Remove 
pin  feathers  with  the  point  of  a  knife.  Remove  oil-bag  from  the 
tail.  To  remove  the  internal  organs  make  an  opening  under 
one  of  the  legs,  or  at  the  vent,  and  remove  them  carefully,  leav- 
ing a  strip  of  skin  above  the  vent.  The  intestines,  gizzard, 
heart  and  liver  should  all  be  removed  together;  care  must  be 
taken  that  the  gall  bladder,  which  lies  under  the  liver,  be  not 
broken;  it  must  be  carefully  cut  away  from  the  liver.  The 
lungs  and  the  kidneys  lying  in  the  hollows  of  the  backbone  must 
be  carefully  removed.  Press  the  heart  to  extract  any  blood. 
Take  off  the  outer  coat  of  the  gizzard,  and  discard  the  sack 
within.  The  gizzard,  heart,  and  liver  constitute  the  giblets, 
and  can  be  used  for  making  grav}\  Wash  the  giblets,  put  the 
heart  and  gizzard  in  cold  water,  heat  quickly,  and  cook  slowly 
1  hour,  then  add  the  liver  and  cook  until  all  are  tender,  about  ^ 
hour  longer.  Cleanse  the  fowl  by  wiping  thoroughly  inside 
and  out  with  a  damp  cloth.  Stuff  and  truss  for  roasting,  or  cut 
into  pieces  for  stew  or  fricassee. 

Roast   Fowl 

After  a  fowl  has  been  dressed  and  cleaned  fill  with  stuffing, 
truss  securely  in  compact  shape,  and  lay  on  its  back  on  a  rack 
in  a  roasting  pan.  Dredge  with  flour,  salt,  and  pepper,  dot 
with  bits  of  butter  and  place  in  a  hot  oven.  As  soon  as  the 
flour  is  browned,  begin  to  baste  with  a  cup  of  hot  water,  and  2 
tablespoons  fat,  and  baste  every  10  minutes. 


172 


Cook  until  breast  is  tender — 1^  hours  for  a  four-pound 
fowl.  For  a  large  fowl  or  an  old  fowl,  the  time  must  be  in- 
creased. 

Stuffing  for  Roast   Fowl 

4  cups  bread  crumbs  ^  cup  melted  butter  or 

2  teaspoons  salt  other  fat 

.  ^  teaspoon  pepper  %  cup  boiling  water 

1  teaspoon  poultry  seasoning        1  egg, (if  desired) 
Mix  in  the  order  given,  combine  thoroughly  and  use  to 
stuff  fowls  and  turkeys.     If  a  dry,  crumbly  dressing  is  desired 
omit   the   boiling   water.      The   addition   of   the   egg   makes    a 
richer  dressing. 

To  Carve  a  Fowl 

The  first  requisite  in  successful  carving  of  a  fowl  is  that 
the  carver  have  a  knowledge  of  the  location  of  all  the  bones  and 
joints.     A  sharp  carving  knife  is  an  absolute  necessity. 

It  is  desirable  to  have  an  extra  plate,  and  fork  at  the  carver's 
place,  the  plate  to  hold  the  joints  as  they  are  removed,  the 
fork  to  use  in  dividing  the  joints. 

When  sent  to  the  table  the  fowl  should  be  on  its  back  on 
the  platter  with  the  legs  at  the  right  hand  of  the  carver. 

The  first  thing  to  be  done  is  to  put  the  carving  fork  in  the 
breast,  just  a  little  below  the  point  of  the  breast,  pressing  it 
down  firmly  so  that  the  tines  are  on  either  side  of  the  breast 
bone  just  above  the  wish-bone.  The  fork  must  be  held  there 
all  through  the  carving  and  the  fowl  must  not  be  moved. 

There  is  a  rule  that  the  wings  of  a.  bird  which  flies  must 
be  removed  first,  the  legs  of  a  bird  that  walks.  Remove  both 
joints  on  one  side  first. 

To  Remove  Leg — Holding  the  fork  in  the  left  hand,  press 
back  the  leg  on  the  nearer  side  of  the  body,  then  cut  down 
through  the  skin  and  joint  right  across  the  joint  so  that  some 
meat  will  be  left  on  the  hip  bone. 


173 


To  Remove  Wing — Cut  through  the  joint  taking  same 
white  meat  from  the  breast  with  the  wing.  Then  if  there  are 
many  persons  to  be  served  so  that  the  greater  part  of  the  fowl 
will  be  needed,  remove  the  leg  and  the  wing  on  the  farther  side. 

Carve  the  white  meat  on  the  breast,  slicing  it  off  carefully 
in  thin  cross  slices;  when  down  almost  to  the  breast  bone,  dis- 
joint and  remove  the  wish-bone  with  the  remaining  white  meat. 

Turn  the  body  to  one  side,  cut  off  the  dark  meat  left  at  the 
base  of  the  leg  joint,  then  cut  out  the  oyster,  a  choice  piece  of 
dark  meat  on  the  lower  side  part  of  the  back  and  close  to 
either  side  of  the  backbone.  With  it  remove  the  skin  and  meat 
from  the  shoulder  blade. 

Then  at  last  remove  the  fork  and  separate  the  pieces  which 
lie  along  the  side  of  the  breast  bone  where  the  fork  has  been 
held. 

Open  the  front  of  the  fowl  so  that  the  dressing  can  be  re- 
moved with  a  spoon. 

To  Separate  the  Joints — Separate  the  second  joint  from  the 
drum-stick.  Notice  the  W'hite  mark  where  the  fibers  join  at  the 
joint  (for  they  run  in  distinctly  different  directions)  and  cut 
through  the  mark  right  between  the  bones  that  meet  at  the  joint. 

Small  pieces  of  meat  may  be  removed  from  the  side  of.  the 
second  joint.  The  second  joint  is  considered  the  most  juicy  and 
best  flavored  cut  in  the  fowl. 

The  meat  may  be  carefully  cut  from  the  drum  stick  and  it 
will  then  be  more  enjoyed.  If  the  tendons  have  been  removed, 
the  meat  on  the  drum  stick  is  very  good. 

Serve  the  cuts  as  attractively  as  possible,  particularly  if 
the  meat  is  served  cold.  Lay  the  pieces  skin  side  up.  In 
serving  put  pieces  of  both  light  and  dark  meat  on  each  plate. 

To  Cut  up  a  Fowl   for  Stew,  Fricassee  or  Frying 

After  singeing  the  fowl  and  removing  the  head,  feet,  and 
oil  sack,  cut  off  the  legs,  and  separate  at  the  joint  into  drum 


174 


sticks  and  second  joint.  Cut  off  the  wings  and  separate  them  at 
the  middle  joint.  Separate  the  body  by  cutting  carefully  between 
the  breast  and  the  back  through  the  ends  of  the  ribs  on  either 
side.  Disjoint  the  neck-piece  from  the  breast.  Separate  the  neck- 
piece from  the  end  of  the  back  and  carefully  lift  out  all  the  en- 
trails lying  in  the  back.  Remove  the  kidneys  from  the  back 
and  the  lungs  from  the  neck-piece,  and  wash  these  two  cuts 
thoroughly. 

Separate  the  wish-bone,  with  the  meat  that  is  on  it,  from 
the  breast.  Cut  the  breast  across  in  two  pieces  with  the  cleaver. 
This  will  give  thirteen  cuts.  If  the  breast  is  large  it  may  be 
further  divided.  The  neck  may  be  cooked  with  the  giblets  and 
used  in  making  gravy. 

Cuts  of  Fowl 

2  drum  sticks  1  end  of  neck 

2  second  joints  of  legs  2  cuts  of  breast 

2  wings  1  wishbone  piece 

2  second  joints  of  wings  1  gizzard 

1  back  1  heart 

1  neck  piece  1  liver 

Stewed  Fowl 

After  cleaning  and  cutting  up  the  fowl,  cover  pieces  with 
boiling  water,  and  cook  rapidly  15  minutes.  Then  add  1  table- 
spoon salt,  and  cook  at  low  temperature  until  tender,  1^ 
hours  or  more. 

Fricasseed   Chicken 

1  stewed  fowl  1  pint  stock  or  more 

2  tablespoons  fat  2  egg  yolks 

^  cup  flour  2  tablespoons  chopped 

1  teaspoon  salt  parsley 

ys  teaspoon  pepper 
When  fowl  is  tender  remove  fat  and  take  stock  from  kettle. 
Heat  fat,  add  flour  and  seasonings,  then  add  hot  stock  slowly. 


175 


Cook  until  smooth  and  thickened,  then  pour  on  two  well- 
beaten  egg  yolks,  add  chopped  parsley,  and  pour  over  fowl 
which  has  been  attractively  arranged  on  a  hot  platter. 

To  arrange  bird  on  platter  lay  neck,  breast,  and  back  in 
center  in  order.  On  the  sides  of  the  breast,  lay  cuts  of  wings, 
on  the  sides  of  the  back  lay  drum  sticks  and  second  joints. 
Lay  giblets  between  wings  and  second  joints.     Serves  6  to  10. 

Chicken  Croquettes 

3y2  cups  chopped  chicken  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

^2  teaspoon  onion  juice  1  recipe  thick  white  sauce 

1  tablespoon  parsley 

Thick  White   Sauce 

^  cup  butter  ^  teaspoon  white  pepper 

y^  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  celery  salt 

1^  teaspoons  salt  1  pint  scalded  milk  or  cream 

Cayenne 
Chop  the  chicken  very  fine  after  picking  it  over  carefully  to 
remove  all  skin,  fat,  and  gristle.    Add  seasonings. 

Prepare  the  thick  white  sauce,  then  add  the  chopped  and 
seasoned  chicken.  It  should  make  the  mixture  of  such  a  con- 
sistency that  it  can  be  handled.  Spread  on  a  shallow,  buttered 
plate  to  cool,  then  shape  into  pyramids.  Crumb,  egg,  and  crumb. 
Cook  in  deep  fat  one  minute  to  browTi,  and  drain  on  unglazed 
paper.  Serve  hot  with  a  garnish  of  parsley.  See — Cooking  in 
fats. 

Croquettes  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner  with  other 
meats.    Serves  12  to  16. 

Creamed  Chicken 

ly^  cup  cold  cooked  chicken        %  teaspoon  celery  salt 

diced  A  few  drops  onion  juice 

1  cup  cream  sauce 


176 


2  tablespoons  butter  White  pepper 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  thin  cream 

^  teaspoon  salt 
Add  diced  chicken  and  seasonings  to  cream  sauce;  when 
well  heated,  serve  in  timbale  cases  or  patty  shells  or  on  toast. 
Serves  6. 

Creamed  Chicken,  Baked 

1  fowl  ( 4>^ -6  lbs. )  White  pepper 

4  sweetbreads  -  6  tablespoons  flour 

1  can  mushrooms  1  quart  cream,  or  rich  milk 

4  tablespoons  butter  ^  onion  grated 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  buttered  crumbs 

Stew  the  fowl  till  very  tender  and  pick  meat  over  carefully, 
removing  all  skin,  bone,  and  gristle.     Cut  in  dice. 

Boil  sweetbreads,  pick  over  carefully  and  cut  in  dice. 
Quarter  the  mushrooms.    Make  a  cream  sauce  with  butter, 
flour,  seasonings,  and  cream,  add  onions  and  chicken,  mush- 
rooms and  sweetbreads. 

Turn  into  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  minutes,  till  a  golden  brown.  Serves 
16  to  20. 

Roast  Duck 
Select  a  young,  fat  duck.  The  lower  part  of  the  legs  and 
webbing  of  the  feet  should  be  soft.  Singe  and  draw  the  duck 
in  the  same  manner  as  a  chicken.  Wipe  it  inside  and  outside 
with  a  damp  cloth.  Weigh.  Fill  with  potato  or  bread  stuffing. 
Truss  in  the  same  way  as  a  chicken.  Place  on  a  rack  in  a 
baking  pan,  cover  the  breast  with  slices  of  bacon,  and  put  ^ 
cup  water  and  ^^  teaspoon  salt  in  the  pan.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven,  allowing  20  minutes  for  every  pound  and  20  minutes 
over.    Serve  with  giblet  sauce.     Serves  6  to  8. 


177 


Roast  Goose 

Follow  directions  for  roast  duck. 

Potato  Stuffing  for  Roast  Duck  or  Goose 

4  cups  hot  mashed  potato  2  tablespoons  butter 

(10  potatoes)  2  egg  yolks 

2  teaspoons  onion  juice  ^  cup  cream 

2  teaspoons  salt  1  tablespoon  parsley 

yl  teaspoon  pepper 
I\Iix  the  onion  juice,  pepper,  salt,  and  butter  with  the  po- 
tato. Add  the  cream  to  the  beaten  yolks  and  mix  them  with  the 
potato.  Add  the  parsley.  Use  to  stuff  duck  or  goose.  Or  turn 
into  a  buttered  dish,  bake  until  brown  on  top,  and  serve  with 
roast  duck  or  fowl. 

Giblet   Gravy    for   Roast   Duck  or   Goose 

2  tablespoons  fat  from  bak-        %  teaspoon  salt 

ing  pan  Pepper 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  giblet  stock 

Giblets 
Put  the  heart  and  gizzard  in  sauce  pan  and  cover  with 
cold  water.  Cook  slowly  until  nearly  tender,  then  add  liver 
and  continue  cooking.  When  tender,  drain  and  chop  fine. 
Make  a  brown  sauce  of  the  fat,  flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  stock, 
add  chopped  giblets  and  when  hot  serve  with  duck  or  goose. 
Serves  6  to  8. 


FISH 

The  flesh  of  fish  is  used  for  food;  the  caviar,  which  is  the 
salted  roe  or  spawn  of  the  sturgeon,  shad  roe,  and  the  coral  or 
ovaries  of  lobsters  are  all  considered  delicacies. 

The  season  for  fish  varies  with  different  kinds.  All  fish  are 
best  before  spawning,  as  during  the  spawning  season  the  flesh 
grows  poor  and  flabby.  The  season  for  catching  fish  is  de- 
termined by  law  in  order  to  avoid  their  extermination. 

Fish  is  cheapest  when  in  season  and  near  the  source  of 
supply.  It  is  sold  by  the  pound  or  by  the  whole  fish  or  in  cutlets. 

The  flesh  of  fish  is  made  up  of  little  fine  flakes  with  con- 
nective tissue  bindings  that  gelatinize  very  easily,  hence  fall 
apart  when  cooked. 

Preparation  and  Cooking — Fish  should  be  perfectly  fresh; 
flesh  firm  and  elastic;  eyes  bright;  and  odor  good. 

Keep  fish  cold  until  used,  in  a  covered  pail  near  the  ice 
covered.  If  fish  is  frozen,  thaw,  just  before  using,  by  placing  in 
or  with  chopped  ice,  never  with  the  other  food  unless  tightly 
in  cold  water. 

Cover  board  or  table  with  newspaper  before  laying  fish 
down.  Remove  scales  by  running  a  dull  knife  from  tail  to 
head,  snapping  scales  off.  Wet  hands  before  touching  fish, 
and  odor  will  come  off  more  easily.  Dip  hands  in  salt  so  that 
fish  will  not  slip,  and  hold  by  the  tail. 

If  inner  organs  have  not  been  removed  in  market,  make  a 
short  incision  in  belly,  draw  them  out  carefully  so  that  the  mem- 
brane which  lines  the  cavity  is  not  broken. 

Remove  head,  if  desired;  if  left  on,  cut  out  eyes. 

Remove  fins  with  scissors.  Cleanse  inside  and  out  with 
cloth  wet  in  salted  water. 

Sprinkle  fish  with  salt  if  to  be  kept  over  night. 

Handle  fish  carefully  when  cooking,  as  flesh  falls  apart 

178 


179 


easily,  and  have  all  utensils  well-greased,  as  skin  sticks  readily 
when  heated. 

\Mien  fish  is  cooked  the  flesh  separates  from  the  bone. 

Cold  cooked  fish  may  be  used  in  various  ways  as  creamed, 
scalloped,  scuffled,  etc.  It  must  be  carefully  picked  over,  all 
skin  and  bone  removed,  and  flaked  with  a  silver  fork. 

Serving — The  seasoning  and  garnishing  of  fish  are  impor- 
tant because  fish  is  lacking  in  extractives  and  flavor  and  is  of 
so  alkalin  a  nature.  Acid  accompaniments,  sauces,  or  stuffings 
are  used  with  fish.  A  rich  stuflmg  is  desirable  wdth  dry  fish. 
Potato  in  some  form  is  usually  served  with  fish. 

Boiled  fish  is  spread  with  butter  and  lemon  juice,  and 
served  with  a  garnish  of  lemon  slices,  hard  cooked  eggs,  parsley, 
and  potatoes.  Baked  fish  is  served  with  tomato  sauce  or  drawn 
butter  sauce. 

Baked  fish  is  carved  by  running  the  knife  down  along  the 
back  bone,  slicing  pieces  to  the  bone,  and  lifting  the  meat  off. 

Boiled  or  steamed  fish  is  served  with  sliced  lemon,  sliced 
eggs,  parsley  sprays  and  chopped  parsley  and  is  accompanied 
by  Hollandaise  sauce  or  drawn  butter  sauce. 

Broiled  Fish 

Clean  the  fish,  cut  in  pieces,  lay  on  a  well-greased  broiler. 
If  the  fish  is  dry,  rub  it  with  melted  butter  before  placing  it  on 
the  broiler.  Sear  the  flesh  side  first,  then  turn  every  ten  seconds. 
The  length  of  time  for  cooking  depends  on  thickness  of  the  fish 
— 20  to  30  minutes.     Season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Baked   Fish 

Clean  the  fish,  sprinkle  wath  salt,  and  fill  with  stuffing, 
sew  or  skewer  the  edges  together.  Cut  gashes  on  each  side 
across  the  fish,  and  put  strips  of  salt  pork  into  them.  Fold  a 
piece  of  well-buttered  paper  about  the  tail.  Grease  the  baking 
sheet  and  place  the  fish  on  it,  dredge  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper, 


180 


put  the  sheet  into  a  baking  pan  with  pieces  of  pork  fat.  Place 
in  a  hot  oven.  Baste  every  10  minutes.  Cook  15  minutes  to 
the  pound,  and  15  minutes  over.  Add  water  to  the  pan  if 
necessary. 

Stuffing   for  Fish 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

3^  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  capers  or 

ys  teaspoon  white  pepper  chopped  pickle 

Cayenne  54  cup  melted  butter 

1  teaspoon  onion  juice 

Mix  in  the  order  given. 

Steamed  or  Boiled  Fish 

Clean  the  fish,  lay  on  a  buttered  plate  in  a  steamer  over 
gently-boiling  water;  or  place  it  in  a  piece' of  muslin,  sew  or  tie 
the  edges  together,  and  put  the  fish  into  boiling  water,  boil  5 
minutes,  then  add  1  tablespoon  salt  and  cook  at  a  lower  tem- 
perature until  done.  Boil  or  steam  20  minutes  to  the  pound. 
Serve  with  sauce. 

Fried  Fish 

Clean  the  fish,  cut  in  fillets,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  cover  with  corn  meal  and  flour  (mixed  in  equal  parts),  or 
fine  bread  crumbs,  and  egg.  Cook  in  deep  fat  or  saute.  Drain 
on  paper.     See  Directions  for  Cooking  in  Deep  Fat.     • 

Planked    Fish 

Clean  the  fish  well.  Split  down  the  back,  removing  the 
backbone.  Wipe  dry.  Rub  a  fish  plank  well  with  salt  and  heat 
it  very  hot  in  the  oven.  Dredge  the  fish  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Spread  the  fish  open,  skin  side  down  on  the  board.  Overlap 
the  thin  flesh  of  the  back.  Nail  the  four  ends  to  the  board. 
Baste  with  melted  butter.  Put  under  the  gas  in  the  broiler. 
Have  the  burner  turned  on  full;  when  the  fish  is  a  good  brown 
lower  the  blaze  and  cook  the  fish  slowly  one-half  hour.     When 


181 


the  fish  is  cooked  spread  with  butter;  garnish  the  board  with 
a  potato  border.  Brown  the  potatoes  in  the  oven.  Garnish 
with  sliced  lemon  and  parsley.     Serve  at  once. 

Fish    Souffle 

2  tablespoons  butter  ^  cup  milk 

or  other  fat  3  eggs 

3  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  cold  cooked  fish, 
^2  teaspoon  salt  flaked 

Cayenne 
Heat  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  stir  until  smooth;  add 
the  milk  and  seasonings,  cook  2  minutes,  remove  to  the  back  of 
the  stove,  and  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  and  fish.  Set  away  to 
cool,  and  when  cold,  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stifl'  froth,  then  turn  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  from  20  to  25 
minutes.     Serve  immediately.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Scalloped   Fish 

2  cups  flaked  fish  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  buttered  crumbs  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

3  tablespoons  butter  Onion  juice  or  parsley 
3  tablespoons  flour  1^  cups  hot  milk 

Put  half  the  crumbs  in  a  baking  dish.  Make  a  white 
sauce  of  the  butter,  flour,  seasonings,  and  milk.  Add  the  fish 
and  onion  juice  or  parsley,  pour  this  into  the  dish,  cover  with 
the  remainder  of  the  crumbs,  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven  about 
20  minutes.     Serves  8  to  10. 

Creamed  Codfish 

2  tablespoons  butter  3  tablespoons  flour 

^  pound  fish  ( 1  pint  1  pint  milk 

shredded)  1  egg 

Soak  the  fish,  if  very  salt,  at  least  1  hour.  Drain  and 
shred.  Brown  the  fish  in  butter  and  add  the  flour  and  milk 
very  slowly.     Beat  the  egg,  add  a  little  hot  liquid,  then  add 


182 


this  to  the  fish.     Cook  1   minute  and  serve.     Or  cover  with 
buttered  crumbs  and  bake  in  oven.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Codfish  Balls 

1  cup  salt  cod  fish  ^  tablespoon  butter 

2y2  cups  potatoes  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

legg 

Wash  the  fish  in  cold  water  and  pull  into  small  pieces. 
Wash  and  pare  the  potatoes  and  cut  in  pieces.  Cook  the  fish 
and  potatoes  together  in  boiling  water  until  the  potatoes  are 
soft,  then  drain  and  shake  over  the  fire  until  dry;  mash  with 
a  wire  potato-masher,  add  the  beaten  egg,  butter  and  pepper, 
and  salt  if  needed,  and  beat  until  light.  Take  up  the  mixture 
in  a  spoon,  mould  slightly  with  a  knife  and  slip  into  deep,  hot 
fat.  Fry  until  brown,  about  1  minute.  Drain  on  unglazed 
paper.    See — Cooking  in  fats. 

The  mixture  for  cod-fish  balls  may  be  served  hot,  without 
frying,  or  turned  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  browned  in 
the  oven  and  served  as  a  baked  dish.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Salmon  Loaf 

1  can  salmon  4  tablespoons  butter 
4  eggs                                              J/'2  cup  bread  crumbs 

Pepper  and  salt 

Pick  the  salmon  into  small  bits,  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten, 
buttered  crumbs  and  seasonings.  Put  into  a  buttered  mould, 
cover  and  steam  1  hour.     Serves  8. 

Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  catsup 
2  tablespoons  flour  Juice  from  fish 

1  cup  milk  Yolk  of  one  egg 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
Melt  the  butter,   add  the  flour,  then  the  milk  gradually. 
Add  the  catsup  and  just  before  serving  beat  into  the  yolk  of  egg. 


18. 


Salmon   Croquettes  (or   other   Fish) 

2  cups  or  1  can  salmon  Cayenne 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  1  tablespoon  parsley 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
3  tablespoons  flour                         2  eggs  for  dipping 

1  teaspoon  salt  Dried  bread  crumbs 
Make  a  white  sauce  with  the  butter,  flour,  seasonings,  and 

hot  milk.  Add  the  parsley,  lemon  juice,  and  finely-flaked  fish. 
Spread  the  mixture  on  a  buttered  platter  to  cool.  Shape  into 
croquettes.  Crumb,  egg,  and  crumb.  Fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain 
on  unglazed  paper.     Serve  hot  with  sauce  tartare. 

Scalloped   Salmon 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  3  hard  cooked  eggs 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  cups  white  sauce 
1  can  salmon 

White   Sauce 

3  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  cayenne 
3  tablespoons  flour  Sprinkle  of  mace 
1  teaspoon  salt                                  2  cups  hot  milk 

Butter  and  season  the  bread  crumbs.  Break  the  salmon  up 
with  a  fork.  Line  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  ^  the  crumbs, 
then  add  a  layer  of  salmon,  eggs,  and  white  sauce;  add  another 
fourth  of  the  crumbs  and  another  layer  of  the  other  food  mater- 
ials. Cover  with  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a 
golden  bro\\Ti,  about  20  minutes.    Serves  6  or  8. 

Casserole   of   Rice  and   Salmon 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Casserole  of  Rice  and  Meat,  substi- 
tuting 2  cups  flaked  salmon  for  the  meat.  Serve  the  salmon  with 
tomato  or  white  sauce.     Serves  8  to  10. 

OYSTERS 

Oysters  are  in  season  from  September  to  May — through  the 
months  containing  "r."  In  the  summer  months  the  oysters  are 
spawning  and  are  not  considered  good. 


1S4 


Oysters  are  often  "fattened"  or  "'soaked""  in  fresh  water 
before  being  sent  to  market.  This  involves  a  loss  in  nutritive 
value.  Along  the  coast  oysters  are  sold  in  the  shell.  For  ship- 
ping some  distance  the  shells  are  usually  opened  and  the  oysters 
packed  in  bulk,  sealed  and  surrounded  by  ice  for  shipping. 
Some  are  packed  in  tin  boxes.  Oysters  must  always  be  kept 
vei}'  cold. 

The  oysters  are  always  considered  best  if  bought  in  the 
shell  where  it  is  possible  to  obtain  them  in  that  way.  Blue 
points  are  a  small  oyster  raised  on  Long  Island,  thought  to  have 
an  especially  nne  navor.  Bulk  oysters  are  good  for  stews, 
scallops,  and  creamed  oysters.  Select  oysters,  those  large  in 
size,  are  best  for  fr}"ing. 

The  oyster  consists  of  a  soft  portion  or  body  which  is 
principally  the  liver  (glycogen)  and  a  tough  portion,  or  muscle, 
and  is  surrounded  by  gills.    The  entire  body  is  used  for  food. 

After  oysters  have  been  removed  from  the  shell,  they 
should  always  be  carefully  picked  over  to  remove  any  small 
pieces  of  shell  and  should  be  well-washed.  If  the  juice  is  to  be 
ser\-ed,  it  should  be  strained  through  a  cheese  cloth. 

Purpose  of  cooking  oysters: 

1  To  make  them  mere  attractive. 

2  To  develop  flavor. 

3  To  make  them  more  wholesone. 

Methods  of  cooking  include  broiling,  pan-broiling,  frying, 
stewing,  creaming,  scalloping. 

Oysters  should  be  cooked  a  ver}-  few  minutes.  Test — when 
the  body  looks  plump  and  the  edges  curl.  If  oysters  are  cooked 
too  long,  the  flavor  is  lost  and  the  muscle  becomes  tough. 

Appropriate  garnishes  for  oysters  are  lemon,  parsley,  cel- 
er}-.  and  such  relishes  as  catsup  and  horse-radish. 


185 

Fricasseed  Oysters 

2  tablespoons  butter  Cayenne 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  pint  or  30  oysters 

3^  teaspoon  white  pepper 
Place  all  the  ingredients,  except  the  oysters,  in  a  chafing 
dish  or  covered  sauce-pan.  When  hot  add  the  oysters,  cover 
and  shake  the  pan  occasionally.  When  the  oysters  are  plump 
and  edges  curl,  drain  them  and  place  them  where  they  will 
keep  hot.  Add  enough  cream  to  the  liquid  in  the  pan  to  make 
1  cup  and  use  this  for  the  sauce. 

Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  cream  and  oyster 

3  tablespoons  flour  liquid 

Salt  and  pepper  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

1  egg 

Cook  the  ingredients,  except  the  egg  and  lemon  juice,  as 
a  white  sauce.  Beat  the  egg  until  light,  and  pour  the  hot 
sauce  gradually  over  it.  Add  the  oysters  and  lemon  juice,  and 
when  hot  serve  on  toast  or  in  patty-dishes.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Broiled  Oysters 

30  oysters  ^  cup  cream  or  milk 

1^  tablespoons  butter  ;^  cup  oyster  juice 

1^  tablespoons  flour  Salt  and  pepper 

6  slices  of  toast 
W^ash,  drain,  and  dry  the  oysters.  Grease  a  griddle  or 
oyster  broiler  with  1  teaspoon  butter.  W'hen  hot  put  in  oysters 
and  turn  when  the  edges  curl.  Remove  the  oysters  to  a  hot 
plate,  melt  remainder  of  butter,  add  flour  and  seasonings  and 
then  liquid.  When  well-cooked  add  oysters.  Serve  hot  on 
toast. 

Fried  Oysters 

Large  Oysters        Dried  bread  crumbs  (sifted  and 
Egg  seasoned) 

Fat  for  frying  (lard  and  beef 
drippings) 


186 


Select  large  oysters,  remove  pieces  of  shell,  wash,  and  wipe 
them  dry,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and 
flour,  dip  in  egg  (beaten  with  1  tablespoon  water  or  oyster 
juice),  and  again  in  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat  1  minute,  drain, 
garnish  and  serve. 

Scalloped  Oysters 

1  pint  or  30  oysters  Cayenne 

3  cups  bread  crumbs  3  tablespoons  butter 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  oyster  juice 

Wash  the  oysters  v/ith  cold  water  in  a  colander,  and  re- 
move pieces  of  shell  with  the  fingers.  Strain  the  juice,  which  is 
to  be  used,  through  a  cheesecloth. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  crumbs  and  seasonings. 

Line  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  ^  the 
crumbs  and  then  add  ^2  the  oysters. 

Add  ^  more  crumbs  and  the  remainder  of  the  oysters  and 
the  oyster  juice.  Cover  with  the  buttered  crumbs.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  30  to  40  minutes. 

If  baked  in  individual  dishes,  4  cups  crumbs  and  4  tea- 
spoons butter  should  be  used  and  the  oysters  should  be  cut  up. 
Bake  15  minutes.     Serves  6  or  8. 


COOKING  IN  FATS 

Fats  are  considered  a  desirable  medium  for  cooking  some 
foods  because  they  can  be  heated  to  so  high  a  temperature  and 
cook  the  food  very  quickly.  When  cooked  in  fats  some  foods 
develop  special  flavors  and  a  peculiar  palatability. 

Methods  of  cooking  in  fats  include  sauteing — cooking  in  a 
small  amount  of  fat;  and  frying — cooking  by  means  of  immer- 
sion in  deep  fat  at  a  temperature  of  350  to  400  degrees. 

Salad  oil,  lard,  and  beef  drippings  are  excellent  fats  for 
cooking,  and  there  are  many  good  cooking  fats  on  the  market 
that  are  made  of  a  combination  of  vegetable  and  animal  fats. 
Fats  are  an  expensive  food  for  cooking  purposes,  but  there  is 
a  wide  range  in  the  prices  for  which  they  can  be  obtained.  The 
housekeeper  should  know  all  the  cooking  fats  obtainable  and 
she  should  keep  informed  as  to  the  local  prices. 

Necessary  Utensils  for  Deep  Fat  Frying   Include:  — 

1  An  iron  frying  kettle  of  good  depth  so  that  fat  will 
not  easily  bubble  over.  The  kettle  should  never  be  filled  within 
more  than  two  inches  of  the  top.  A  Scotch  bowl  is  excellent 
because  it  can  be  easily  handled  and,  because  of  its  rounding 
base,  so  large  an  amount  of  fat  is  not  required  to  fill  it. 

2  A  frying  basket  to  hold  articles  when  placed  in  kettle 
so  that  they  will  not  be  broken  up. 

3  A  long  fork  with  which  to  handle  basket.  Or,  a  flat 
wire  egg  beater  can  be  used  in  place  of  the  basket  and  long  fork. 

4  Unglazed  absorbent  paper  for  draining. 

Changes  in  Fat  When  Heated 

When  fat  is  heated  it  bubbles  because  of  water  present, 
which  passes  off  as  steam  when  it  reaches  a  temperature  of  212 
degrees.  The  fat  grows  but  little  hotter  until  the  water  is  all 
evaporated,  then  it  becomes  quiescent,  temperature  rises  rapidly, 

187 


188 


a  faint  blue  smoke  is  given  off  of  some  fats,  then  heavy  fumes 
arise  and  finally  the  fat  boils  at  a  temperature  of  about  600 
degrees.  The  fat  is  hot  enough  for  most  cooking  purposes  when 
the  faint  blue  smoke  begins  to  rise,  but  for  deep  fat  frying 
definite  tests  must  be  used.  See  "Tests  for  Temperature"  given 
below. 

In  cooking,  the  boiling  point  of  fats  is  never  used.  Most 
animal  fats  are  broken  up  before  the  boiling  point  is  reached 
and  the  substances  associated  with  the  fats,  or  cooked  in  them, 
would  be  burned  at  a  temperature  even  lower  than  the 
boiling  point. 

Temperature   for  Frying 

The  fat  must  be  hot  enough  to  form  a  crust  quickly  on 
the  articles  to  be  fried  so  that  the  food  will  not  absorb  fat. 
This  temperature  must  be  varied  for  different  substances  in 
accordance  with  the  length  of  time  which  it  is  necessary  to 
cook  them  through. 

Tests    for   Temperature 

When  water  has  all  been  evaporated  from  fat  and  bubbling 
has  entirely  ceased,  watch  carefully  for  a  faint  blue  smoke. 
Then  test  by  dropping  in  a  small  cube  of  bread  or  a  little  of  the 
food  material  that  is  to  be  fried. 

If  one  can  count  60  seconds  while  the  bread  is  browning 
the  fat  is  hot  enough  for  uncooked  mixtures  such  as  potatoes, 
doughnuts,  fritters,  etc. 

If  one  can  count  40  seconds  while  the  bread  is  browning 
the  fat  is  hot  enough  for  all  previously  cooked  mixtures,  such 
as  croquettes,  fish  balls,  etc.,  that  will  be  quickly  cooked. 

If  one  can  count  20  seconds  while  the  bread  is  browning 
the  fat  is  hot  enough  for  oysters  and  other  foods  that  are  to  be 
cooked  very  quickly. 


189 


During  the  time  of  counting  the  bread  should  become  a 
golden  brown. 

If  a  black  smoke  comes  from  the  fat  it  is  too  hot. 
Method  of  Frying 

The  articles  to  be  fried  should  be  warm  and  dry  and  only 
a  few  should  be  put  in  the  fat  at  a  time. 

\Mien  the  fat  is  at  the  proper  temperature  slip  a  few  of 
the  articles  to  be  fried  carefully  into  the  kettle.  Stir  or  turn  if 
necessary  and  cook  until  the  crust  is  a  golden  brown,  and  the 
mixture  has  had  time  to  cook  through  to  the  center;  then  re- 
move from  the  fat. 

When  cooked,  drain  the  articles  a  few  minutes  directly 
over  the  kettle,  then  lay  on  unglazed  paper,  so  that  fat  which 
adheres  to  the  article  wall  be  absorbed  by  the  paper.  Reheat 
fat  before  adding  another  quantity  of  food  to  be  fried. 

Time   Table   for   Frying 

Breaded  Chops       5  to  8  min.      Fritters  3  to  5  min. 

Croquettes  1  min.      Oysters  1  min. 

Doughnuts  3  to  5  min.      Potatoes,  raw  4  to  8  min. 

Fish  Balls  1  min. 

Many  kinds  of  food  may  be  fried  in  the  same  fat.     Each 

time  after  using  clarify  the  fat,  chill,  and  keep  for  future  use. 

Use  new  fat  for  potatoes  first,  then  flour  mixtures  and  crumbed 

articles,   and  lastly   for   fish   foods.     When   fat  has  grown   so 

dark  that  it  is  no  longer  good  for  frying,  it  can  be  utilized  in 

making  soap. 

Fat  burns  so  readily  that  special  precautions  must  be  ob- 
served in  handling  it  so  that  it  does  not  come  in  contact  with 
the  flame. 

If  the  fat  bubbles  over  on  the  stove  it  should  be  quickly 
wiped  off  with  newspaper. 

If  the  fat  should  take  fire,  cover  it  quickly  with  ashes  or 
sprinkle  salt  on  it. 


190 


Egging  and  Crumbing 

Many  foods  do  not  become  covered  with  a  crust  when 
subjected  to  high  heat  in  deep  fat.  Such  foods  must  have  some 
egg  added  to  the  mixture  or  be  coated  with  a  substance  which 
forms  a  crust  quickly.  For  this  reason  foods  are  dipped  into 
bread  crumbs  and  eggs,  a  method  known  as  egging  and  crumb- 
ing. 

Dried  crumbs  are  prepared  from  crusts  and  from  small 
pieces  of  hard  bread  dried  in  a  very  moderate  oven  until  a 
light  brown.  Roll  them  on  a  pastry  board,  or  put  them  through 
a  meat  grinder.  Sift  the  crumbs.  Keep  dried  crumbs  in  jars, 
tie  pieces  of  muslin  over  jars  and  keep  in  a  dry  place.  Use 
them  to  cover  articles  of  food  to  be  cooked  in  deep  fat.  For 
savory  dishes  it  is  well  to  season  crumbs  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Steps  in  egging  and  crumbing: 

1  Dip  article  into  seasoned  dried  bread  crumbs,  flour,  or 
corn  meal,  covering  it  entirely  with  crumbs. 

2  Dip  into  egg  which  has  been  slightly  beaten  with  1 
tablespoon  water,  milk,  or  oyster  juice  (for  fried  oysters). 

3  Dip  again  into  seasoned  bread,  crumbs. 

Reasons  for  steps  in  egging  and  crumbing  for  deep  fat 
frying: 

The  article  is  dipped  into  bread  crumbs 

1  To  make  the  surface  dry. 

2  To  cause  the  egg  to  adhere. 
The  article  is  dipped  into  egg 

1  To  cause  a  crust  to  form  on  the  surface. 

2  To  prevent  fat  soaking  in. 

Water  is  added  to  the  egg(l  tablespoon  to  each  egg) 

1  To  prevent  its  becoming  dry  and  stringy. 

2  To  prevent  cracking  of  the  crust. 
The  egg  is  beaten  slightly 

1     To  mix  it  well  and  break  up  the  membrane. 


191 


2     To   avoid  large  bubbles  in   cooking,   as  they  might 
crack  and  admit  fat. 
The  article  is  dipped  in  crumbs  the  second  time 

1  To  make  the  surface  dry  so  that  the  fat  will  not 
bubble  so  vigorously. 

2  To  improve  appearance  and  flavor  of  the  crust. 

Croquettes 

Croquettes  are  an  attractive  form  in  which  to  serve  left- 
overs. They  are  used  for  a  luncheon  dish  or  as  an  entree  at 
dinner. 

The  ingredients  used  in  croquettes  are  usually  already 
cooked  and  are  finely  cut  up.  They  are  well-seasoned  and  are 
bound  together  with  egg,  softened  bread  crumbs,  or  a  thick 
white  sauce  made  of  2  tablespoons  butter,  4  tablespoons  flour, 
and  1  cup  milk. 

The  materials  which  may  serve  as  a  foundation  are: — 
Meat — Chicken,  Veal,  Beef. 
Fish — Salmon,  Lobster,  Cod,  Oysters. 
Vegetable — Macaroni,  Potato,  Squash,  Parsnips. 
Cereal — Rice,  Farina. 
Fruit — Banana,  Apple. 
Egg — Hard  cooked,  creamed,  stuffed. 
Cheese — With  butter,  with  eggs,  with  white  sauce. 
The  processes  involved  in  making  croquettes  are  mixing, 
seasoning  and  binding  materials;  chilling; shaping — round  for 
cereals,  cylindrical  for  potatoes,  pyramid  for  meats;  crumbing, 
egging  and  crumbing;  frying  and  draining.  See — Directions  for 
cooking  in  deep  fat. 

Croquettes  may  be  served  with  a  garnish  of  parsley,  peas, 
or  with  sauces — white  sauce,  tomato  sauce,  brown  sauce,  mush- 
room sauce,  or  with  sweet  sauce  for  fruit  croquettes. 
See  recipes  for  croquettes. 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

Batters  and  doughs  are  mixtures  of  flour  or  meal  and  a 
liquid,  with  salt  and  sugar  to  give  flavor,  butter  to  make  ten- 
der, and  air  or  gas  to  make  light.  Doughs  are  thicker  than 
batters. 

Flour  and  water  mixed  and  cooked  make  a  hard  mass. 
Air  or  gas  can  be  introduced  and  the  mixture  quickly  cooked 
before  the  bubbles  break  and  the  resulting  cooked  dish  will 
be  light  and  porous,  because  of  the  elastic  nature  of  the  flour 
and  its  tendency  to  become  firm  when  exposed  to  high  heat. 
The  air  and  gas  both  expand  when  heated  at  the  temperature 
of  the  oven  to  about  three  times  their  volume,  and  if  properly 
baked  the  cooked  dish  is  very  light. 

Methods  of  entangling  air  in  a  batter: 

1  By  beating  the  batter.  Examples — Pop-overs,  cream 
puffs,  beaten  biscuits. 

2  By  kneading  the  batter.  Examples — Bread. and  rolls. 

3  By  adding  well-beaten  eggs.  Examples — Pop-overs, 
muffins,  cakes.  (One  or  two  eggs  are  sufficient  to 
make  one  cup  flour  light  in  a  thin  batter,  6  eggs  are 
necessary  for  1  cup  flour  if  no  other  liquid  is  used.) 

Methods  of  Entangling  Gas  in  a  Batter: 
1     By  using  an  alkali  with  an  acid. 

a  Soda  with  sour  milk.   (1  teaspoon  soda  to  1  pint 

sour  milk.) 
b  Soda  with  molasses.    (1  teaspoon  soda  to  1   cup 

molasses.) 
c  Soda  with  cream  of  tartar.  (1  level  teaspoon  soda 

to  2  slightly  rounding  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar.) 
d  Soda  with  dried  fruits.  (Raisins  containing  cream 

of  tartar.) 
e  Soda  wdth  chocolate  (fatty  acids). 

192 


193 

2     By  the  use  of  yeast. 

The  Thickness  of  Batters  and  Doughs 

1  A  thin  or  pour  batter  is  of  the  cc^nsistency  of  thin  cream 
and  pours  readily. 

Proportion — 1  measure  flour  to  1  measure  liquid  (scant). 
Example — Pop-overs,  griddle  cakes,  timbales,  etc. 

2  A  thick  cake,  or  drop  batter  is  of  the  consistency  of 
thick  cream  and  breaks  when  poured. 

Proportion — 2  measures  flour  to  1  measure  liquid.  Ex- 
ample— Muffins,  butter  cakes,  etc. 

3  A  soft  or  bread  dough  is  stiff  enough  to  be  handled 
lightly. 

Proportion — 3  measures  flour  to  1  measure  liquid.  Ex- 
ample— Baking  powder  biscuits,  bread,  etc. 

4  A  stiff  or  pastry  dough  is  stiff  enough  to  be  handled 
easily. 

Proportion — 4  measures  flour  to  1  measure  liquid.  Ex- 
ample— Pie  crust,  cheese  straws,  noodles,  etc. 

Note — Proportions  will  vary  with  the  kind  of  flour  and 
the  liquid  used. 

Ways   of   Combining    Ingredients 

1  To  stir,  merely  for  the  purpose  of  combining  in- 
gredients, means  to  mix  by  circular  motion  with  a  spoon. 

2  To  beat,  for  the  purpose  of  enclosing  air  in  the  mix- 
ture, means  turning  the  ingredients  over  and  over,  and  draw- 
ing the  spoon,  fork  or  beater  through  from  underneath  to  the 
surface. 

3  To  cut  and  fold,  for  the  purpose  of  combining  in- 
gredients which  have  already  been  beaten  in  such  a  way  as  to 
prevent  the  entangled  air  from  escaping,  means  cutting  through 
and  turning  over  the  ingredients  with  a  fork  or  beater  until 
they  are  thoroughly  blended. 


194 


General   Directions    for   Mixing   Batters 

1  Have  oven  at  proper  temperature,  and  see  that  the  fire 
is  in  good  condition  and  well  regulated.  The  oven  temperature 
should  be  about  375  degrees,  or  test  by  putting  in -a  piece  of 
white  paper  or  2  teaspoons  flour  on  a  pan.  This  should  become 
a  golden  brown  in  from  2  to  5  minutes. 

2  Prepare  pans  before  beginning  to  measure  materials. 
Grease  pans  with  lard,  butter,  or  beef  drippings,  using  a 

soft  brush  or  a  piece  of  paper  for  that  purpose.     Heat  iron  gem 
pans  or  earthen  cups  before  filling. 
Pans  are  greased 

a  To  keep  batter  from  sticking, 
b  To  add  flavor  to  the  crust. 
.  c  To  help  cook  the  crust. 

3  Have  all  materials  measured  and  ready  before  begin- 
ning to  combine  the  ingredients. 

4  Mix  and  sift  all  dry  ingredients  together. 

5  Mix  milk  and  egg  yolk. 

6  Add  liquids  slowly  to  dry  ingredients,  stirring  and 
beating  them  well  to  keep  free  from  lumps. 

7  When  perfectly  smooth,  cut  and  fold  in  well-beaten 
whites. 

8  Add  melted  butter  last. 

9  Fill  muffin  tins  only  one-third  to  two-thirds  full. 
10     Bake  at  once. 

Pop-Overs 

1  cup  flour  y^  cup  milk 

^  teaspoon  salt  ^  teaspoon  melted  butter 

1  or  2  eggs 

Mix  and  sift  flour  and  salt.  Add  yolks  of  egg  to  milk 
and  add  gradually  to  the  flour  to  obtain  a  smooth  batter.  Beat 
3  minutes.  Then  add  well-beaten  whites  carefully.  Add  melted 
butter  last.     Turn  into  hissing  hot  gem  pans  or  earthen  custard 


195 


cups.    Bake  25  to  35  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.    Serves  8  to  10. 

Or  pop-overs  may  be  mixed  without  separating  the  eggs, 
beat  up  slightly,  add  milk,  and  then  add  the  liquid  gradually 
to  flour  and  salt.     Beat  batter  3  minutes  with  dover  egg  beater. 

Pop-overs  are  the  simplest  form  of  batter  and  are  used  as 
a  mufhn  for  breakfast,  as  an  accompaniment  to  roast  beef  in 
the  form  of  Yorkshire  pudding,  and  as  a  simple  dessert  with 
lemon  sauce. 

Graham  Pop-Overs 

1  cup  milk  Yz  tablespoon  sugar 

1  egg  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

Yz  cup  Graham  flour  }^  tablespoon  melted  fat 

Yz  cup  white  flour 
Beat  the  egg  very  light,  add  the  milk  and  pour  the  liquid 
slowly  onto  thee  dry  ingredients  which  have  been  mixed  and 
sifted.  Beat  with  an  egg  beater  until  bubbles  appear  on  top. 
Add  melted  fat  last.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  in  hot 
well-greased  iron  gem  pans  30  to  ?i^  minutes.     Makes  8  to  10. 

Noodles 

2  eggs  Flour 

Y2  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  the  eggs  until  light,  add  salt  and  sufficient  flour 
to  make  a  very  stiff  dough;  knead  until  smooth,  roll  thin  as 
paper  and  when  partially  dry  cut  in  thin  strips.  Let  dry  in  the 
air.  When  dry  place  in  a  jar  covered  with  cheese-cloth. 
Noodles  will  keep  for  several  weeks,  and  may  be  used  in  the 
same  way  as  macaroni.  Cook  in  boiling  water  30  to  40  minutes 
before  adding  to  the  soup. 

BAKING  POWDER  MIXTURES 

To  Prepare  Baking  Powder  Mixtures. 
Pastry  flour  is  best  for  baking-powder  mixtures,  and  should 
be  sifted  once  before  measuring. 


196 


Only  standard  baking-powders  should  be  used.  Use  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder  to  1  cup  flour;  ^  teaspoon  soda|  and 
1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  can  be  substituted  for  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder. 

In  combining  baking-powder  mixtures  follow  general  rule 
for  mixing  batters,  being  careful  to  work  quickly  after  baking 
powder  has  been  moistened. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits 

2  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  fat 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  %  to  1  cup  milk  or  water 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  chop  fat  into  the  flour  with  a 
knife,  slowly  add  sufficient  milk  to  make  a  dough  not  too  soft 
to  be  handled.  Use  the  knife  while  combining  dough  and 
when  handling  it  on  the  board.  Toss  and  roll  dough  gently 
on  a  sligjitly  floured  board,  and  cut  into  small  biscuits.  Moisten 
tops  with  a  little  milk.  Handle  dough  quickly,  lightly,  and  as 
little  as  possible.  Place  on  a  buttered  sheet.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  till  brown,  from  12  to  15  minutes.  Either  white  or  whole 
wheat  flour  may  be  used  for  biscuit.  Serves  6  to  8.  Oven  test — 
oven  should  be  hot  enough  to  color  a  piece  of  unglazed  white 
paper  to  golden  brown  in  1  minute. 

Emergency  Biscuits 

2  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  butter  or 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder  other  fat 

1  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  milk  or  water 

Sift  dry  ingredients  twice,  cut  in  fat,  add  milk  gradually. 
Drop  mixture  into  greased  muffin  tins,  brush  over  with  milk, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  12  minutes.     Serves  6  to  8. 


197 


Dumplings 

2  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  butter  or 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  other  fat 

y2  teaspoon  salt  Ya  cup  milk  or  water 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  cut  in  fat,  and  add  milk  gradually. 
Toss  onto  a  floured  board,  roll  out,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter, 
place  on  a  buttered  plate  and  put  in  steamer  over  boiling  water. 
Put  cheese  cloth  under  cover  of  steamer  to  absorb  moisture. 
Cook  12  minutes. 

Dumplings  may  be  cooked  by  laying  them  on  top  of  meat 
in  stew  pan,  cover  kettle  closely,  keep  stew  boiling,  and  cook 
dumplings  twelve  minutes,  without  removing  lid.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Soda    Biscuits 

1  pint  flour  2  tablespoons  shortening 
^  teaspoon  soda  (level)  (lard  or  other  fat) 
Yo  teaspoon  salt                              Yz  cup  sour  milk 

Note  : — If  the  sour  milk  is  not  thick  enough  to  clabber,  it 
will  not  contain  sufficient  acid  to  neutralize  the  soda  and  the 
biscuits  will  be  yellow  and  bitter.  To  avoid  this,  cream  of 
tartar  can  be  combined  with  the  soda  (1  teaspoon).  If  there  is 
no  cream  of  tartar  at  hand  it  will  be  wise  to  use  the  recipe  for 
baking  powder  biscuits. 

Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  soda  and  salt.  Chop  in  the  fat  with 
a  knife,  then  add  enough  of  the  sour  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Toss  onto  a  floured  board  and  roll  lightly.  Cut  out  with  a 
biscuit  cutter  and  put  in  a  greased  pan.  Bake  12  to  15  minutes 
in  a  hot  oven.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Pin  Wheel  Biscuits 

2  cups  flour  Y2  cup  sugar 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder        ^  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  salt  Y2  cup  raisins  or  currants 

1  tablespoon  lard  or  oleo  2  tablespoons  butter 

Yz  cup  milk  or  less 
Combine  the  first  five  ingredients  as  baking  powder  bis- 


198 


cuits.  Roll  ^  inch  in  thickness,  brush  with  creamed  butter  and 
sprinkle  with  }^  cup  sugar,  ^4  teaspoon  cinnamon,  and  ^  cup 
stoned  and  chopped  raisins.  Roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll,  cut  off 
%  inches  at  a  time  and  place  in  a  greased  pan  cut  ends  up. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  15  minutes.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Hot    Cross    Buns    with    Baking    Powder 

2  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder        %  to  1  cup  milk 
Yz  teaspoon  salt  -  1  egg 

34  cup  sugar  ^  cup  currants 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  chop  fat  into  the  flour  with  a  knife, 
mix  part  of  the  milk  with  the  egg,  and  slowly  add  sufficient  of 
the  liquid  to  make  a  dough  not  too  soft  to  be  handled.  While 
adding  the  liquid  mix  in  the  currants  also.  Toss  and  roll 
dough  gently  on  a  slightly  floured  board,  and  cut  in  large  rounds. 
Just  before  baking  mark  with  a  cross  on  top  using  a  sharp  knife ; 
brush  with  beaten  egg.  Bake  12  to  15  minutes  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Scones 

2  cups  flour  ]/x  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar        ^  cup  raisins  or  currants 
Yz  teaspoon  soda  ^4  cup  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs 

4  tablespoons  butter 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Chop  butter  in.  Add 
raisins,  then  egg  slightly  beaten,  then  enough  sour  milk  to  make 
a  soft  dough  to  roll  out. 

Divide  in  2  pieces,  pat  each  piece  into  the  shape  of  a  round 

ball,  flatten  into  the  size  of  a  small  tea  plate,  cut  in  eighths,  lay 

on  a  buttered  baking  sheeet,  moisten  top  by  brushing  with  a 

slightly  beaten  egg,  or  2  tablespoons  milk  and  1  teaspoon  sugar. 

Bake  quickly  10  to  15  minutes.    Serves  16. 


199 

MufBns 

3  cups  flour  ^  teaspoon  salt 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  ^  cup  milk 

^  cup  corn  meal  2  eggs 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  tablespoons  butter 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

;Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  egg  yolks  and  milk 
beaten  together.  Cut  and  fold  in  well-beaten  whites  and  add 
melted  butter  last.  Bake  20  minutes  in  buttered  gem  pans,  or 
muffin  tins  in  a  hot  oven.     Serves  16  to  20. 

Corn    Muffins 

1  cup  flour  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

y2  cup  corn  meal  1  cup  milk 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  egg  and  milk  beaten 
together.  Add  melted  butter  last.  Bake  in  gem  pans  or  muffin 
tins  25  to  30  minutes.     Serves  12  to  16. 

Whole    Wheat    Muffins 

1  ^  cup  whole  wheat  flour  ^  cup  sugar 

y2  cup  wheat  flour  1  egg 

3  teaspoons  baking  2  tablespoons  butter  or 

powder  oleomargarine 

Yz  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  egg  and  milk  beaten 
together.  Add  melted  butter  last.  Bake  25  to  30  minutes  in 
greased  gem  pans  or  muffin  tins.    Serves  12  to  16. 

Graham    Gems 

2  cups  graham  flour  1  cup  milk 
^  cup  sugar                                   1  egg 

^  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

3  teaspoons   baking  powder  or  oleomargarine 
Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.     Add  egg,  well-beaten,  and 


200 


melted  butter  last.     Bake  in  hot,  greased  gem  pans  20  minutes. 
Serves  12  to  16. 

Date  Graham  Gems 

Follow  the  recipe  for  Graham  Gems.  Just  before  putting 
into  pans  add  1  cup  of  dates  that  have  been  stoned  and  cut 
in  pieces. 

Bran   Gems 

2  cups  bran  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  cup  flour  ,  2  eggs 

yi  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  butter  or 

1  teaspoon  soda  other  fat 
^  cup  molasses 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  molasses  and  sour  milk.  Then 
add  well-beaten  eggs  and  the  melted  fat.  Bake  in  small  greased 
gem  pans  35  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.     Serves  8. 

Rolled   Oats    Muffins 

y/\.  cup  oleomargarine  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking 
1  egg  powder 

1  cup  rolled  oats  Nutmeg 

%  cup  flour  1  cup  milk 

Cream  the  fat,  add  sugar  and  well-beaten  egg.  '  Then  add 
the  rolled  oats  and  other  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  the 
milk.  Bake  in  greased  muffin  tins  in  a  hot  oven  25  to  30 
minutes.    Serves  6  to  8.  , 

Corn   Bread 

1  ^  cup  corn  meal  2  eggs 

\y2  cup  flour  2  cups  milk 

1^  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  butter  or 

1  tablespoon  sugar  other  fat 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

If  sour  milk  is  used  emit  baking  powder  and  use  1  tea- 
spoon soda. 


201 


Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Beat  eggs  well,  add  milk,  and 
add  gradually  to  dry  ingredients.  Beat  well.  Add  melted  butter. 
Turn  into  a  well-buttered  pan.  Bake  in  hot  oven  30  minutes. 
Serves  6  to  8. 

Corn  Bread  Sticks 

Prepare  the  batter  for  corn  bread.  Bake  in  well-greased 
bread  stick  pans  15  to  20  minutes  until  well  browned.  Serve 
hot.   Makes  2  dozen. 

Spoon  Corn  Bread 

1  cup  white  corn  meal  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  pint  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  tablespoon  fat 

If  sweet  milk  is  used,  omit  the  soda  and  add  2  level  tea- 
spoons baking  powder. 

Sift  together  the  corn  meal,  salt,  and  soda,  add  th:'  egg 
well-beaten,  then  the  milk  and  melted  fat.  Beat  thoroughly^ 
put  into  a  shallow,  well-greased  dish,  preferably  eaithen, 
granite,  or  iron,  and  bake  30  to  35  minutes  in  a  hot  even. 
Serves  6. 


Corn   Meal   Rolls 

1  %.  cup  flour  y2  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  corn  meal  4  tablespoons  butter 

4  teaspoons  baking  1  egg 

powder  %  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  sugar 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Chop  2  tablespoons  butter 
in  with  a  knife. 

Beat  egg,  add  ^  cup  milk  to  egg,  then  add  to  dry  ingred- 
ients slowly  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Toss  on  a  floured  board,  roll 
out  j^inch  thick,  cut  with  a  round  cutter,  brush  with  melted  but- 
ter, fold  over  so  that  edges  are  even,  put  in  a  buttered  pan,  brush 


202 


with  milk  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  12  to  15  minutes.     Serves 
10  to  12. 

Corn  Meal  Dodgers 

1  pint  white  Southern  corn  meal 

2  tablespoons  shortening 

Yz  cup  boiling  water  poured  over  to  make  meal  moist, 
not  soft 
Let  stand  Yz  hour 

1  egg,  beaten  without  separating 

2  tablespoons  milk 

Add  to  meal,  then  drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  a  hot,  greased 
baking  pan,  shape  like  a  meringue.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  3/2  hour.    Serve  hot.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Steamed   Brown    Bread 

4  cups  rye  meal  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  corn  meal  1  cup  molasses 

1  tablespoon  soda  4  cups  sour  milk 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  thoroughly,  add  the  molasses; 
then  the  milk.  Beat  well.  Put  into  a  mould  which  has  been 
greased.  Cover  tightly.  Cook  over  steam  6  hours,  then  re- 
move cover,  and  dry  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  Serves  20. 
See — Steamed  mixtures. 

Quick  Graham  Bread 

1  cup  graham  flour  1  egg 

y^  cup  wheat  flour  2  tablespoons  molasses 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  sour  milk 
Y2  teaspoon  soda 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  molasses  to  well- 
beaten  egg  and  add  to  dry  ingredients.  Add  sour  milk  slowly, 
and  beat  thoroughly.  Turn  into  a  well-greased  pan  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven  30  minutes.     Serves  6. 


203 


Nut   Bread 

4  cups  flour  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  chopped  nut  meats 

6  teaspoons  baking  powder  Salt 

legg 
Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  egg  and  milk,  mak- 
ing a  soft  dough  as  for  baking  powder-biscuits.  Add  nuts  and 
turn  into  loaf  pans  which  have  been  well-greased.  Let  stand 
20  minutes.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  30  to  45  minutes. 
Makes  two  loaves. 

Quick  Coffee  Bread 

2  tablespoons  oleomargarine      1  ^  cups  flour 

or  other  fat  3  teaspoons  baking 

%.  cup  sugar  powder 

1  egg  %.  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  milk 
Cream  the  fat,  add  the  sugar  and  the  egg,  well-beaten, 
then  add  the  dry  ingredients  and  the  milk  alternately  to  make 
a  cake  batter.    Bake  in  a  well-greased,  round  cake  tin  25  to  30 
minutes. 

After  the  bread  is  well  risen,  sprinkle  the  top  with 

%.  cup  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  oleomargarine 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  2  tablespoons  flour 
Continue  baking  until  done. 

Serves  6  to  8. 

Raisin  Bread 

2  cups  flour  1  egg 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  cup  milk,  or  enough  to 

y2  teaspoon  salt  make  a  soft  dough 

y2  cup  sugar  ^  cup  currants 

34  teaspoon  nutmeg  grating         ^  cup  raisins 

4  tablespoons  butter 

Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  baking  powder,   salt,   sugar,   and 
nutmeg  twice,  chop  in  fat  till  very  fine.     Add  the  beaten  egg  to 


204 


one-half  cup  milk  and  mix  lightly  with  flour  and  fat,  using  just 
enough  to  form  a  soft  dough.  Add  the  raisins  and  currants  which 
have  been  well  washed,  dried,  and  lightly  floured.  Bake  in  a 
buttered  loaf  pan  40  to  50  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serves 
8  to  10. 

Griddle  Cakes 

Batter — Griddle  cakes  are  prepared  in  the  form  of  thin 
batters. 

Sweet,  sour,  or  butter  milk  may  be  used  in  griddle  cakes. 

Flour,  stale  bread,  rice,  corn  meal  or  other  cereals  may 
form  the  foundation  of  griddle  cake  batters. 

The  Griddle — Griddle  cakes  are  made  round  or  long  in 
shape. 

Iron  griddles  hold  an  intense  heat  and  give  good  results  in 
baking.    When  black  they  heat  best. 

Aluminum  griddles — which  require  little  or  no  greasing — 
heat  very  easily,  are  easily  cleaned  and  light  to  handle.  The 
aluminum  griddle  is  apt  to  warp  and  one  of  the  heavy  cast 
aluminum  must  be  selected  to  avoid  this  danger. 

Soapstone  griddles — which  must  not  be  greased  at  all — 
give  excellent  results  in  baking  but  are  very  heavy. 

Electric  griddles  of  steel  or  aluminum  are  most  satisfactory 
because  of  the  even  heat  which  can  be  secured  and  maintained. 

Preparation  of  Griddle — Make  sure  the  griddle  is  perfectly 
smooth.   Rub  an  iron  griddle  well  with  salt  to  clean. 

If  it  is  to  be  greased,  rub  it  with  a  piece  of  salt  pork  on 
the  end  of  a  fork,  with  suet,  or  with  beef  drippings  or  lard  on  a 
soft  cloth.  Butter  is  expensive  and  burns  too  easily  to  be  desir- 
able. 

Wipe  off  with  tissue  paper  before  using  to  remove  any 
black. 

Scrape  off  any  mixture  that  sticks. 


205 


Grease  after  each  using. 

For  cake  turners  the  regulation  cake  turners,  plain  or 
perforated,  are  made,  or  a  broad-bladed  spatula  may  be  used, 
or  a  broad-bladed  knife. 

Baking — Pour  batter  carefully  from  spoon  or  pitcher  so 
that  it  will  take  a  round  shape. 

Test  griddle  and  batter  first  by  baking  one  cake.  When  it 
bubbles  on  top  evenly,  turn  and  brown  on  under  side.  Turn 
only  once  while  baking. 

Serving — Always  have  a  hot  plate  ready  for  serving  cakes. 
Serve  immediately  when  baked. 

A  perforated  cover  is  good  to  put  over  the  plate  or  a  nap- 
kin may  be  folded  over  the  cakes  if  they  have  to  stand  for  a 
few  minutes. 

Granulated  sugar,  powdered  sugar,  and  syrups  are  all 
used  as  accompaniments  in  serving  griddle  cakes. 

Plain  Griddle  Cakes 

1  quart  flour  3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  3  cups  milk 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  %  cup  butter 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Separate  the  yolks  and 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  add  milk  to  the  yolks.  Add  this  mix- 
ture to  the  dry  ingredients  and  fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Add  butter,  melted,  last.  Cook  at  once  on  a  hot  griddle.  The 
batter  may  be  made  quickly  without  separating  the  eggs.  Serves 
16  to  20. 

Corn  Meal  Griddle  Cakes 

1  cup  corn  meal  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  hot  milk  %  cup  sugar 

1  cup  flour  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Pour  the  hot  milk  over  the  meal,  stir  thoroughly,  and  cook 
5  minutes.    Sift  the  remaining  dry  ingredients;  when  the  meal 


206 


has  cooled,  mix  all  together  and  add  the  well-beaten  eggs.  Add 
cold  milk  if  mixture  is  too  thick.    Bake  at  once.    Serves  8  to  10. 

Sour  Milk  Griddle  Cakes 

2  cups  stale  bread   or  }^  teaspoon  salt 

bread   crumbs  ^  cup  sugar 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  egg 

2  cups  flour  1  y2  cup  sour  milk 

y^  teaspoon  soda  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Break  bread  in  pieces  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it. 
When  soft  pour  off  surplus  water,  if  any,  and  beat  until  smooth. 
Add  dry  ingredients,  mixed  and  sifted,  then  beaten  egg,  milk 
and  butter.  Beat  thoroughly;  bake  on  a  hot,  greased  griddle. 
Serves  8  to  10. 

Bread   Griddle   Cakes 
XYz  cups  stale  bread  crumbs        3^  teaspoons  baking 
1  Yz  cups  hot  milk  powder 

2  eggs  y2  teaspoon  salt 

yz  cup  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

(1  cup  any  cooked  cereal  may  be  used  instead  of  bread 
crumbs) 

Soften  bread  crumbs  in  hot  milk;  cool;  add  yolks  of  eggs, 
and  add  this  liquid  to  dry  ingredients,  sifted  together;  cut 
and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  and  add  melted  butter  last.  Cook  at 
once  on  a  hot  griddle.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Buckwheat  Cakes 

1  quart  buckwheat  flour  2  tablespoons  molasses 

y^  cup  corn  meal  ^  cake  yeast 

1  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  warm  water 

Soften  yeast  in  ^  cup  warm  water.  Mix  buckwheat, 
corn  meal,  and  salt.  Add  molasses  and  sufficient  warm  water 
to  make  a  thin  batter.  Add  yeast  and  beat  well.  Set  in  warm 
place  and  let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  beat  up  well,  and 
bake  on  a  hot  griddle.     Serves  16  to  20. 


207 


Waffles 

The  Batter — Waffles  are  prepared  with  a  thin  batter  richer 
than  that  used  for  griddle  cakes  and  made  lighter  by  the  use 
of  more  eggs. 

The  Waffle  Iron — Waffles  are  baked  in  a  corrugated 
waffle  iron  which  must  be  well-buttered  with  a  brush  or  soft 
cloth  each  time  before  cooking  a  waffle. 

Baking — Both  sides  of  a  waffle  iron  must  be  heated  before 
buttering  and  the  waffle  is  baked  largely  by  the  heat  of  the  iron. 
The  first  side  of  the  waffle  can  be  quickly  turned,  the  second 
side  will  require  longer  cooking.  Cook  till  both  sides  are  well- 
browned. 

Serving — Have  hot  plates  ready  for  serving.  Serve  as  soon 
as  baked.    Serve  with  bacon,  syriip,  or  powdered  sugar. 

Waffles 

1  pint  flour  1 5^  cups  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  tablespoons  melted 
3/2  teaspoon  salt  butter 

3  eggs 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  yolks  of  eggs  well- 
beaten  with  milk;  cut  and  fold  in  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs 
carefully;  add  melted  butter  last.  Bake  on  a  hot,  well-buttered 
waffle  iron  until  well-browned  and  crisp.     Serves  6. 

FRITTERS 

Fritters  are  batters  or  doughs  which  are  fried  in  deep  fat. 
Some  vegetable  or  fruit  is  usually  added  to  the  batter  or  the 
fritter  may  be  served  with  a  sweet  sauce  or  preserve. 

Fritters  are  served  as  an  entree  or  side  dish  with  meat  or 
are  used  as  a  dessert. 


Fritter 

Batter 

1  cup  flour 
]/x  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
1  egg 

Yz  cup  milk 
2  tablespoons  butter 
(melted) 

208 


Sift  the  dry  ingredients  together.  Beat  the  egg,  add  the 
milk,  add  the  hquid  to  the  dry  ingredients,  then  add  the  melted 
butter.  Use  the  batter  with  apples,  bananas,  oranges,  pine- 
apple, grated  corn  or  cooked  sweet  corn,  cold  cooked  cauliflower, 
celery  that  has  been  parboiled,  oysters,  or  chopped  clams. 
Serves  16  to  20. 

Apple  Fritters 

Wash,  quarter,  pare,  and  core  sour  apples,  cut  quarters 
into  halves,  and  stir  into  fritter  batter.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
deep  fat,  and  fry  until  golden  brown.  Drain  on  absorbent 
paper,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve  hot.  See — 
Cooking  in  fats. 

Queen  Fritters 

^  cup  butter  y2  cup  flour 

3/2  cup  boiling  water  2  eggs 

Put  the  butter  in  a  sauce  pan,  add  the  water,  and  when 
boiling  turn  in  all  the  flour  at  once,  stirring  until  it  forms  a  ball. 
Add  the  eggs,  unbeaten,  one  at  a  time,  and  beat  well.  Fry  a 
small  spoonful  at  a  time  in  deep  fat  until  well-puffed  and 
brown.  Drain  on  absorbent  paper;  split  and  put  jam  or  mar- 
marmalade  inside  of  puff;  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 
Serves  10  to  12.    See — Cooking  in  fats. 

TIMBALES 

Timbales  are  entrees  which  are  moulded  and  cooked  in 
cases,  or  the  term  is  applied  to  pastry  preparations  which  are 
cooked  in  the  shape  of  cases. 

The  moulded  timbale  preparations  may  be  savory  or  sweet. 
They  may  be  prepared  from  a  mixture  which  resembles  a  cus- 
tard, or  a  souffle,  or  a  croquette  mixture. 

To  shape  the  timbale  mixture  a  mould  is  well-buttered, 
then  lined  with  sifted  crumbs. 


209 

The  timbale  is  steamed  or  baked  in  the  mould  or  turned 
from  the  mould  and  egged,  crumbed  and  fried  as  a  croquette. 

The  timbale  is  always  turned  from  the  mould  and  usually 
served  hot  with  a  white,  brown  or  tomato  sauce,  peas,  mush- 
rooms or  other  garnish,  and  an  accompaniment  of  crisp  bread. 

Swedish  Timhales — The  timbales  in  the  form  of  a  pastry 
preparation  most  commonly  used  are  the  Swedish  timbales. 
These  are  very  thin  batters  which  must  be  perfectly  smooth  and 
are  cooked  very  quickly  on  hot  irons  until  they  are  brown  and 
crisp. 

The  timbale  irons  are  round,  long  or  heart-shaped,  often 
with  a  fluted  surface.  They  are  very  heavy  and  hold  a  great 
deal  of  heat.  They  have  a  long  handle  to  prevent  burning  of 
the  hand  while  cooking. 

The  irons  should  be  kept  perfectly  smooth  and  clean  and 
put  away  well-greased  and  wrapped  in  tissue  paper. 

Swedish  Timbales 

^  cup  flour  1  egg 

y2  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  olive  oil  or 

1  teaspoon  sugar  melted  butter 

^  cup  milk 
Sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  milk  gradually,  then  the 
slightly  beaten  egg,  and  the  oil;  stir  well,  but  do  not  beat; 
strain  the  mixture  into  a  cup.  Heat  the  timbale  iron  in  fat 
which  is  hot  enough  to  brown  a  cube  of  bread  in  one  minute. 
The  fat  should  be  deep  enough  to  cover  the  iron.  When  hot, 
dip  the  iron  three-fourths  into  the  batter,  and  then  into  the  hot 
fat.  Cook  the  timbale  until  a  delicate  brown;  remove  from  the 
iron,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  See — Cooking  in  fats.  Serves, 
30  to  40. 


BREAD 

Yeast  bread  or  "light  bread"  is  made  by  using  yeast  to- 
produce  the  gas  necessary  for  making  the  bread  light. 

YEAST 

Yeast  is  a  kind  of  plant  without  leaves,  stems,  or  blossoms, 
microscopic  in  size  but  larger  than  bacteria.  It  consists  of  a 
single  egg-shaped  cell  which  splits  in  the  center  to  form  new 
plants  or  sends  out  little  protuberances  from  the  ends  which 
break  off  as  little  buds  to  form  new  plants.  The  yeast  plant 
multiplies  very  rapidly,  many  hundreds  of  cells  being  produced 
in  a  few  minutes. 

Yeast  plants  are  present  in  the  air  and  found  in  the  form 
of  "bloom"  on  the  surface  of  grapes,  plums,  and  other  fruits. 

Conditions   for  Growth 

The  yeast  plant  needs  moisture  and  heat  for  growth. 
The  most  favorable  temperature  is  from  65  degrees  to 
90  degrees  F.  Above  139  degrees  the  activities  of  yeast 
become  arrested  and  at  212  degrees  the  plant  is  killed.  A 
low  temperature  renders  yeast  inactive  and  at  32  degrees  it  may 
become  ruptured. 

For  food  the  yeast  plant  requires  some  nitrogenous  and 
sugary  material  both  of  which  it  finds  in  the  bread  dough,  for 
it  acts  together  with  the  ferments  in  wheat  in  changing  the 
starch  to  sugar. 

Action  of  Yeast 

As  yeast  grows  it  breaks  sugar  up  into  alcohol  and  carbon- 
dioxide,  a  process  known  as  alcoholic  fermentation.  When 
yeast  has  grown  in  dough  long  enough  to  produce  alcohol  and 
carbon-dioxide  in  large  quantities  it  is  necessary  to  check  this 
action  by  kneading  the  dough  and  finally  by  baking  it  as  an- 
other form  of  fermentation  is  likely  to  set  in  and  make  the  dough 
sour  by  the  production  of  an  acid.  This  is  known  as  acetic  fer- 
mentation and  must  not  be  allowed  to  begin  in  bread  as  it 

210 


211 


changes  the  flavor.    Lactic  acid  fermentation  may  take  place  in 
bread  if  the  milk  used  is  not  first  scalded. 

Yeast  produces  a  bread  which  is  more  wholesome  and  more 
porous  than  baking  powder  breads  and  which  has  a  special 
flavor  because  some  of  the  starch  has  been  converted  into  sugar. 
In  yeast  breads  there  remain  no  harmful  products  because  the 
alcohol  and  carbon-dioxide  are  both  entirely  given  off  during 
the  baking. 

Preparation  of  Yeast 

Commercial  yeast  is  grown  in  a  mixture  usually  pre- 
pared of  barley  and  water.  The  yeast  plants  are  collected, 
thoroughly  washed,  combined  with  fine  starch,  and  pressed  into 
small  cakes  which  are  wrapped  in  tin  foil.  This  is  known  as 
"compressed  yeast."  There  is  not  enough  moisture  retained  for 
the  yeast  to  grow;  if  it  is  kept  cold  it  can  be  kept  fresh  for 
several  days.  Compressed  yeast  should  have  a  pleasant,  alco- 
holic odor,  be  a  light  tan  in  color  and  not  be  marked  by  dark 
streaks  or  mould. 

"Dry  yeast"  or  "yeast  foam"  is  combined  with  some  starchy 
substance  and  is  so  free  from  moisture  that  it  will  keep  in  any 
temperature.  It  is  cheaper  than  compressed  yeast  but  longer 
time  for  rising  is  necessary  if  dry  yeast  is  used. 

Liquid  yeasts  are  grown  in  a  liquid  solution  prepared  from 
flour,  warm  water,  and  hops.  They  are  not  usually  handled 
commercially. 

Leaven  is  a  portion  of  dough  kept  to  be  used  as  a  starter  in 
the  next  rising.  It  must  be  kept  cold.  That  is  the  old-fashioned 
method  of  starting  bread. 

Only  yeast  that  is  fresh  and  in  good  condition  should  be 
used  in  making  bread.  Use  ^  cake  compressed  yeast  for  1 
quart  liquid  if  the  bread  is  set  at  night;  2  cakes  if  set  in  the 
morning.  Soften  1  yeast  cake  in  ^4  cup  lukewarm  water.  One 
cake  of  dry  yeast  is  sufficient  for  one  quart  of  liquid  if  it  is  to 
rise  over  night. 


212 


Liquid  Yeast 

2  ounces  hops  2  teaspoons  salt 

2  quarts  water  1  pound  flour 

Yz  pound  brown  sugar  3  pounds  potatoes 

Boil  the  hops  and  water  1  hour.  Add  the  sugar,  salt,  and 
flour.  Let  stand  for  three  days  in  a  warm  place.  If  it  foams  over 
the  top  of  the  jar  stir  it  well.  On  the  third  day  add  the  potatoes, 
boiled  and  mashed.  On  the  fourth  day  strain,  bottle,  and  keep 
in  a  cool  place.  Use  one  cup  of  yeast  to  one  quart  of  liquid 
when  starting  bread. 

Bread  Flour 

The  best  flours  for  yeast  breads  are  those  prepared 
from  wheat  and  rye  because  these  two  cereals  contain  a 
large  amount  of  gluten.  Gluten  is  one  of  the  principal  proteins 
of  wheat  and  is  valuable  in  bread  making  because  it  is  very 
tough  and  elastic,  binding  the  particles  of  flour  together  and 
thus  retaining  the  gas  bubbles  that  are  formed  during  the  growth 
of  the  yeast. 

Spring  wheat  or  hard  wheat  flours  are  best  for  bread 
making  when  yeast  is  used  because  they  contain  a  high  per  cent 
of  gluten.  Winter  wheat  or  soft  wheat  flours  are  more  desirable 
for  all  baking  powder  mixtures  and  are  known  as  pastry  flours. 

A  good  pastry  flour  is  miich  whiter  in  color  and  smoother 
and  finer  in  texture  than  is  bread  flour,  and  it  retains  the  im- 
press of  the  fingers  much  more  readily. 

Tests  for  Good  White  Flour 

A  good  bread  flour  should  be  creamy  white  in  color  and 
slightly  granular  to  the  touch.  It  should  not  show  a  tendency 
to  lump  or  cake,  nor  readily  hold  the  impress  of  the  fingers  if 
squeezed  in  the  hand. 


213 


Flour  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  It  should  have 
no  musty  odor  and  should  be  looked  over  carefully  before  using 
to  be  sure  that  it  is  free  from  insects. 

Whole  Wheat  Flour 

\Miole  wheat  flour  may  be  used  in  all  recipes  in 
the  same  way  that  white  flour  is  used.  In  whole  wheat  or 
entire  wheat  flour  the  outer  covering  has  been  removed  and 
enough  of  the  whole  grain  is  retained  to  give  the  flour  a 
dark  color.  The  germ  is  usually  retained  in  the  whole  wheat, 
hence  the  keeping  qualities  of  whole  wheat  flour  are  not  so  good 
as  those  of  white  flour  because  of  the  larger  per  cent  of  fat 
present. 

The  bread  made  from  whole  wheat  flour  is  not  so  light  as 
that  from  white  flour  because  the  siliceous  covering  of  the  grain 
which  is  retained  contains  a  ferment  resembling  diastase,  called 
cerealin.  While  the  dough  is  rising  this  ferment  acts  upon  a 
good  portion  of  the  starch,  forming  viscid  compounds  of  dextrin 
and  sugar  preventing  carbon  dioxide  from  puffing  up  the  bread 
as  much  as  it  otherwise  would. 

Graham    Flour 

Graham  flour  was  originally  a  coarse,  unbolted  flour  made 
by  grinding  the  whole  wheat  which  is  first  washed  and  cleaned. 
At  the  present  time  much  of  the  graham  flour  is  prepared  by 
more  or  less  perfect  bolting.  The  food  value  of  graham  flour  is 
the  same  as  that  of  the  so-called  whole  wheat  flour. 

The  graham  flour  is  valued  because  it  irritates  the  mucous 
membrane  of  the  intestines,  increases  peristaltic  action,  thus 
giving  the  digestive  tract  needed  exercise  and  acting  as  a  laxa- 
tive, and  supplies  bulk  to  the  food.  It  is  usd  in  the  same  ways 
that  white  flour  is  used. 

Salt  is  added  to  the  bread  dough  for  flavor. 


214 


Sugar  is  used  in  bread,  not  so  much  to  give  flavor  as  to  feed 
the  yeast  plant. 

Lard  or  butter  is  used  for  shortening  but  the  presence  of 
shortening  retards,  rather  than  favors,  the  growth  of  the  yeast 
plants  and  so  is  used  in  small  quantities  except  in  fancy  breads, 
then  it  it  is  well  to  add  it  after  the  sponge  has  become  well 
started. 

Milk  gives  a  whiter  bread  than  water  but  both  may  be 
used  either  alone  or  in  combination.  The  liquid  used  should 
always  be  scalded  first  to  prevent  the  introduction  of  bacteria 
into  the  bread  dough  and  to  make  sure  that  there  is  no  danger  of 
the  milk  souring  during  the  time  of  rising. 

Mashed  potatoes  and  potato  water  are  often  used,  especially 
with  dry  yeast,  as  they  favor  the  growth  of  the  yeast  plant  and 
produce  a  bread  which  retains  its  moisture  well.  Whey  is 
sometimes  used  as  the  liquid. 

MAKING  BREAD 

The  processes  in  bread  making  consist  of  mixing,  knead- 
ing, rising,  and  baking. 

I  Mixing — The  method  of  mixing  bread  may  be  varied 
according  to  the  kind  of  yeast  used  and  the  time  allowed  for 
rising.  If  dry  yeast  is  to  be  used  and  if  a  long  time  is  to  be 
allowed  for  rising,  a  sponge  is  usually  prepared  first.  When 
yeast  has  become  active  in  the  sponge  enough  flour  is  added  to 
make  a  dough,  which  is  then  kneaded  20  minutes.  When  com- 
pressed yeast  is  used  and  time  of  rising  is  to  be  short  the  dough 
is  usually  prepared  at  once  and  thoroughly  kneaded  for  20  min- 
utes. The  dough  should  be  put  in  a  warm  bowl,  covered,  and 
kept  in  a  warm  place  free  from  drafts. 

II  Kneading — Kneading  is  done  on  a  wooden  board  which 
is  first  floured,  or  a  metal  board  which  is  slightly  greased,  or  the 
board  may  be  covered  wiht  a  "magic  cover"  which  requires  no 


215 


flour  or  grease.  Bread  should  be  kept  warm  during  the 
kneading. 

The  purpose  of  the  first  kneading  is  (1)  to  incorporate 
air;  (2)  to  distribute  yeast  plants  evenly;  (3)  to  moisten  each 
little  starch  granule;  (4)  to  give  a  smooth,  even  surface;  (5)  to 
develop  the  gluten. 

The  purpose  of  the  second  kneading  is  (1)  to  check  the 
fermentation;  and  (2)  to  make  the  grain  of  the  bread  finer  by 
working  the  gas  through  in  fine,  even  bubbles. 

The  time  necessary  for  the  first  kneading  is  about  20 
minutes.  The  dough  should  be  kneaded  until  it  does  not  stick 
to  the  hands  or  board  and  is  smooth,  spongy,  and  elastic,  rising 
quickly  when  indented. 

The  time  necessary  for  the  second  kneading  is  about  5 
minutes,  or  until  there  are  no  longer  large,  uneven  bubbles. 

III  Rising — The  first  rising  will  require  from  2  to  8  hours 
according  to  the  kind  and  amount  of  yeast  used.  The  second 
rising  will  require  from  ^  to  1  hour  according  to  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  dough.  Test  for  rising — the  dough  should  be  doubled 
in  bulk  and  spring  back  lightly  when  touched. 

If  it  is  necessary  to  check  rising  quickly,  the  dough  may 
be  cut  down  with  a  knife,  and  the  rising  may  be  retarded  by 
subjecting  the  dough  to  a  low  temperature. 

IV  Baking — Reasons  for  baking  bread  are  ( 1 )  to  check  the 
fermentation  and  to  kill  the  yeast;  (2)  to  make  the  starch 
soluble;  (3)  to  drive  off  the  alcohol  and  carbon  dioxide  gas; 
(4)  to  make  the  bread  light  and  porous;  (5)  to  form  a  brown 
crust  which  will  give  a  pleasant  sweet  flavor  to  the  bread  as 
the  starch  is  dextrinized. 

Bread  requires  a  hot  oven.  The  temperature  should  be 
about  375  degrees,  sufficient  to  brown  a  piece  of  unglazed  white 
paper  or  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  3  minutes.  The  heat  of 
the  oven  should  increase  slightly  during  the  first  20  minutes,  be 


216 


kept  even  during  the  next  twenty  minutes,  and  decrease  during 
the  last  20  minutes.  The  time  for  baking  bread  should  be 
divided  into  fourths,  the  bread  continuing  to  rise  during  first 
fourth, browning  slightly  during  the  second,  continuing  to  brown 
during  the  third  and  drying  out  during  the  last  quarter.  Bis- 
cuits require  a  hotter  oven  than  bread  because  they  can  be 
baked  more  quickly. 

When  bread  is  thoroughly  baked  it  does  not  cling  to  sides 
of  pan,  the  crust  is  a  golden  brown,  the  sides  will  spring  back 
when  touched,  and  a  hollow  sound  will  be  given  forth  if  the 
crust  is  tapped. 

When  bread  is  baked,  the  loaves  should  be  taken  from  the 
pans,  put  on  a  wire  rack,  and  left  uncovered  until  cooled.  Bread 
should  be  kept  in  a  clean,  ventilated  tin  box  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Bread 

2  cups  milk  or  water  %  cake  compressed  yeast 

(scalded)  (1  cake  if  set  in  morning) 

2  teaspoons  salt  J4  cup  water  (lukewarm) 

2  teaspoons  sugar  Flour 

1  tablespoon  lard  or  butter 
Put  the  hot  water  or  milk,  salt,  sugar,  and  fat  into  a  bowl; 
when  lukewarm  add  the  yeast  softened  in  the  lukewarm  water, 
then  the  flour  gradually,  and  when  stiff  enough  to  handle, 
turn  dough  out  on  floured  board  and  knead  until  soft  and 
elastic  (20  minutes).  Return  dough  into  the  bowl,  moisten, 
cover  and  let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place  until  double  its  bulk;  then 
knead  slightly,  divide  into  loaves,  or  shape  into  biscuits,  cover 
and  let  rise  in  the  pan  in  which  they  are  to  be  baked  until 
double  in  bulk,  and  bake  50  to  60  minutes.    (2  loaves). 

Time  required  for  making  bread,  if  1  yeast  cake  is  used 
— 6  hours 


217 


Beaten  Bread 

Follow  the  bread  recipe,  but  use  only  enough  flour  to  make 
a  very  stiff  batter  that  can  be  beaten.  Beat  mixture  until  flour 
is  thoroughly  mixed,  let  sponge  rise  till  double  in  bulk;  then 
add  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  beat  well  for  five 
minutes.  Place  in  pans,  and  when  double  its  bulk,  bake. 
(2  loaves). 

Beaten  bread  will  not  be  so  fine  in  grain  as  kneaded  bread, 
but  may  be  more  easily  prepared. 

Whole  Wheat  Bread 

1  tablespoon  butter  or  lard  2  cakes  compressed  yeast 

2  teaspoons  salt  ^  cup  lukewarm  water 

1  pint  milk,  scalded  Whole  wheat  flour  to 

1  pint  boiling  water  make  a  batter 

Pour  hot  milk  and  water  into  bowl  with  salt  and  butter; 
when  lukewarm  add  yeast  cake  which  has  been  softened  in 
lukewarm  water,  then  add  flour  gradually  beating  it  in  with  a 
wire  whip  until  very  light  and  spongy. 

Set  away  to  rise  till  double  its  bulk  (about  one  hour),  then 
add  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  thoroughly,  set  away 
to  rise  a  second  time  (about  1  hour),  then  knead  slightly,  and 
divide  into  loaves,  and  let  rise  in  pans  till  double  in  bulk  and 
bake  50  to  60  minutes.    (4  loaves.) 

Soft  Graham  Bread 

1  ^  cups  scalded  water  2  tablespoons  butter 

or  milk  or  lard 

2  teaspoons  salt  ^  cake  compressed  yeast 

2  tablespoons  molasses    or         ^  cup  lukewarm  water 
4  tablespoons  brown  3^  cups  graham  flour 

sugar  and  1  tablespoon       1^  cups  white  flour 
molasses 
Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  and  add  sufficient  white 
flour  to  make  a  thick  batter  or  sponge.    Beat  well,  let  rise  till 


218 


very  light,  beat  again,  and  pour  it  into  the  greased  bread  pans, 
filling  them  half  full.  Let  rise  till  very  light,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.   (2  loaves.) 

Rye  Bread 

Follow  the  recipe  for  bread,  using  from  one  to  one  and 
one  half  cups  rye  flour  to  every  3  cups  of  white  flour. 

Coffee  Bread  With  Yeast 

1  cup  scalded  milk  Flour  to  make  a  stiff 

Yz  cup  butter  or  other  fat  batter 

y^  cup  sugar  ^  cup  raisins 

^  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  creamed 

1  egg  butter 

1  yeast  cake  3  tablespoons  flour 

%  cup  lukewarm  water  ^  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
Add  scalded  milk  to  butter,  sugar,  and  salt;  when  luke- 
warm add  yeast,  softened  in  ^  cup  lukewarm  milk.  Then  add 
egg,  well-beaten,  flour,  and  raisins.  Beat  well.  Cover,  and  let 
rise  over  night.  In  the  morning,  beat  again,  or  knead,  turn  into 
two  buttered  round  cake  pans,  making  ^  inch  thick.  Cover 
and  let  rise  till  light.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  45  to  50  minutes. 
When  nearly  browned  spread  with  the  creamed  butter,  flour^ 
sugar,  and  cinnamon,  which  have  been  well-mixed  together^ 
and  continue  browning.   Serves  12  to  16. 

ROLLS  AND  BUNS 
Parker  House  Rolls 

1  pint  milk  (scalded)  Y^  yeast  cake,  if  mixed  at 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  night 

oleomargarine  1  cake,  if  mixed  in  the 

2  tablespoons  sugar  morning 

1  teaspoon  salt  Y  ^^P  water 

3  cups  flour 


219 


Make  a  sponge,  beat  thoroughly,  and  put  away  to  rise. 
When  light,  add  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  and  knead  until 
smooth.  When  double  its  bulk,  knead  again,  and  roll  the  dough 
^  inch  thick.  Lift  it  from  the  board,  and  let  it  shrink  so  that 
the  rolls  may  be  of  uniform  shape.  Cut  with  a  round  or  oval 
cutter.  Place  a  bit  of  fat  in  the  center  of  each  round  of  the 
dough,  then  fold  so  that  the  edges  are  even.  Press  the  roll  on 
the  straight  side  to  prevent  it  from  separating  as  it  rises.  Place 
the  rolls  in  a  greased  pan,  and  when  very  light  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  20  to  25  minutes.  The  oven  should  be  hot  enough  to  color 
a  piece  of  unglazed  white  paper  to  golden  brown  i.n  1^ 
minutes.    (4  dozen.) 

Luncheon  Rolls 

Use  recipe  for  Parker  House  Rolls.    When  light  enough  to 

to  shape,  knead  down  and  cut  off  small  pieces,  shaping  them 
in  long  narrow  strips.  Rub  with  fat  and  put  close  together  in  a 
narrow  pan.  Let  rise  till  light.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  20  to 
25  minutes. 

Finger  Rolls 
Use  recipe  for  Parker  House  Rolls.  When  light  enough  to 
shape,  knead  dowm  and  cut  off  small  pieces.  Shape  them  in 
slender,  pointed  rolls  and  place  far  enough  apart  so  that  they 
wall  not  touch  one  another  w^hen  they  expand.  Let  rise  till 
light.  Brush  wdth  milk  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  20  to  25 
minutes. 

English  Muffins 

2  cups  scalded  milk  ^  yeast  cake 

1  cup  hot  w^ater  %  cup  lukewarm  water 

3  tablespoons  shortening  Flour 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  egg,  if  desired 

1  teaspoon  salt 
Scald  milk.    Heat  water.    Soften  yeast  cake  in  lukewarm 
water.    Measure  shortening,  sugar  and  salt,  and  put  in  a  large 


220 


bowl.  Add  scalded  milk  and  hot  water.  When  mixture  is 
lukewarm  add  softened  yeast.  Add  enough  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  dough.  Egg  should  be  added  after  one-third  flour  has  been 
added.  Beat  well.  Let  rise  over  night  to  double  its  bulk.  When 
light  divide  into  small  balls  and  place  in  buttered  gem  pans. 
Let  rise  until  very  light.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  20  to  30 
minutes.  Makes  18  to  24. 

Bread  Sticks 

1  cup  milk  (scalded)  ^  yeast  cake 
Ya,  cup  butter                 -  ^4  cup  water 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  egg  white  (beaten) 
Y'z  teaspoon  salt  4  cups  flour  (about) 

Make  a  stiff  dough  and  knead  until  smooth.  Let  it  rise 
until  double  its  bulk.  Knead  again,  then  shape  into  sticks.  Roll 
a  small  piece  of  dough  into  a  ball,  then  into  a  stick  which 
should  be  6  inches  long,  and  about  ^  inch  in  diameter.  Place 
in  greased  bread-stick  pans,  or  on  sheets  and  let  the  sticks  rise 
until  light.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  15  to  20  minutes.  (4  dozen.) 

Buns 

1  cup  milk   (scalded)  %  yeast  cake 

y^  cup  sugar  ^  cup  water 

1  egg  2  cups  flour 

y^  teaspoon  salt 

Make  a  sponge,  beat  thoroughly,  and  when  light  add — 
54  cup  butter  (softened)  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon  and 

^  cup  currants  nutmeg 

Add  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  this,  and  let  rise 
until  double  its  former  bulk. 

Then  shape  into  small  round  cakes,  and  place  them  in 
greased  muffin  pans;  when  light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  40 
minutes.  When  the  buns  have  baked  for  15  minutes,  glaze  them 
with  a  mixture  of  milk  and  sugar  (1  tablespoon  sugar,  %  cup 
milk),  and  repeat  this  every  five  minutes.  (1^  dozen.) 


221 


Rolled  Cinnamon   Buns 

Use  the  sponge  for  buns,  and  when  light  add  flour  to  make 
a  stiff  dough;  knead  well  and  let  it  rise  until  double  its  bulk; 
knead  slightly  then  roll  ^  inch  thick.  Spread  with — 

yii  cup  softened  butter  1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

^  cup  currants  1  cup  brown  sugar 

Roll  up  the  dough  as  in  making  jelly  roll,  and  cut  in 
slices  1  inch  thick.  Place  in  well-greased  pans,  or  muffin  tins 
with  cut  surfaces  up  and  down.  When  very  light,  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  45  minutes.  Just  before  removing  from  oven, 
baste  with  molasses  if  desired.  (1^  to  2  dozen.) 

Date  Buns 

1  pint  lukewarm  water  ^  cup  molasses 

%  cup  sugar  3  cups  flour  or  more 

y2  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  dates,  chopped 

y2  yeast  cake  %.  cup  butter 

%  cup  lukewarm  water 
Put  hot  water,  salt,  and  sugar  into  bowl,  add  the  yeast 
which  has  been  softened  in  V^  cup  lukew^arm  water,  add  mo- 
lasses and  flour  gradually  to  make  a  soft  dough,  then  add  1  cup 
chopped  dates.  Set  aside  to  rise.  When  very  light,  knead  and 
roll  out  until  about  %  inch  thick.  Spread  with  ^  cup  softened 
butter,  and  1  cup  chopped  dates.  Roll  up  the  dough,  as  in  mak- 
ing jelly  roll,  and  cut  in  slices  1  inch  thick.  Place  in  well- 
greased  pans,  with  cut  surfaces  up  and  down.  When  very  light 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  45  minutes.    Makes  16  to  20. 

Pulled  Bread 

Remove  crusts  from  fresh  bread,  tear  bread  into  small 
strips  with  two  forks,  and  brown  slowly  in  the  oven  so  that 
bread  is  thoroughly  dry  and  crisp. 

Uses  for  Stale  Bread 

Stale  bread,  crumbed,  is  suitable  for  bread  puddings,  dress- 


222 


ings  and  fillings  for  scalloped  dishes,  omelets,  griddle  cakes,  etc. 

Small  dried  pieces  of  stale  bread  may  be  rolled  or  ground, 
sifted  and  used  for  crumbing  croquettes,  cutlets,  etc. 

Whole  slices  of  stale  bread  may  be  used  for  toast,  sippets, 
croutons,  etc. 

Croutons 

Cut  stale  bread  into  ^  inch  cubes  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Sippets 

Cut  bread  into  thin  slices,  then  into  strips  5  inches  long 
and  1  Yz  inches  wide  and  toast  them. 

Canapes 

Cut  bread  into  pieces  2  inches  thick,  cut  in  rounds  or  in 
rectangles  4^/^  inches  long  by  3  inches  wide.  Remove  part  of  the 
bread  from  the  center,  leaving  i^  inch  wall,  butter,  and  brown 
in  the  oven. 

Soup   Sticks 

Cut  stale  bread  into  ^  inch  slices,  remove  crusts,  then 
butter  and  cut  in  ^  inch  strips;  brown  in  the  oven. 

Zwieback 

Cut  baker's  bread  or  other  light  bread  into  1  inch  slices 
and  brown  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Toast 

Cut  stale  bread  into  slices  J4  iiich  thick,  put  on  toaster  or 
fork,  move  gently  over  the  heat  until  dry,  then  brown  by  placing 
nearer  the  heat,  turning  constantly.  Bread  may  be  dried  in  the 
oven  before  toasting. 

Milk  Toast 

1  pint  milk  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  8  slices  toast 

Scald  the  milk.  Season  with  butter  and  salt.  Pour  over 
hot  toast. 


223 


Cream  Toast 

%  cup  butter  2  cups  milk  or  cream 

3  tablespoons  flour  6  or  8  slices  of  toast 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Heat  the  butter.  When  it  bubbles,  add  the  flour  and  salt, 
add  hot  milk  gradually,  stirring  constantly,  and  allowing  the 
mixture  to  thicken  and  bubble  each  time  before  adding  another 
portion  of  milk.  The  sauce  is  sufficiently  cooked  when  it  boils 
up  after  the  last  addition  of  milk.  Pour  this  sauce  over  pieces 
of  dry  or  moist  toast.  Moist  toast  is  prepared  by  quickly  dip- 
ping dry  toast  into  hot,  salted  water  or  hot  milk.  A  cheaper 
sauce  may  be  made  by  using  2  tablespoons  butter.    Serves  6  to  8. 

French  Toast 

1  or  2  eggs  1  cup  milk 

y^  teaspoon  salt  6  or  8  slices  of  stale  bread 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  oleomargarine 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  salt  and  milk,  and  dip  bread 
in  mixture.  Heat  the  fat  in  a  frying  pan,  brown  the  bread  on 
one  side,  turn  and  brown  on  the  other  side.  Serve  hot.  Serves 
6  to  8. 

Crisp  Crackers 

Split  thick  soda  crackers,  spread  with  butter,  put  on  a 
baking  sheet  and  place  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Serve  with  soup 
or  salad. 

Nut  Wafers 

1 2  salt  wafers  %.  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  egg  white  Salt 

Brush  each  wafer  with  white  of  egg  which  has  been  slightly 
beaten  with  water (1  tablespoon  to  1  egg  white), dust  with  finely 
chopped  nuts,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Dry  in  the  oven  till 
crisp.    Serve  with  salad. 


224 


Toasted   Crackers   and   Cheese 

12  salt  wafers  Salt 

y^  cup  cheese  Cayenne 

Season  grated  cheese  with  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper. 
Sprinkle  on  salt  wafers,  put  in  a  slow  oven,  and  heat  until 
cheese  has  melted.    Serve  hot  with  salads. 

Butter  Balls  to  Serve  with  Bread 

Scrub  butter  paddles  well  with  white  soap  and  hot  water, 
rinse  in  clean  boiling  water,  and  chill  in  ice  water. 

With  a  piece  of  paper  over  the  blade  of  the  knife,  cut  each 
T^ound  of  butter  into  16  pieces  of  equal  size.  Shake  water  frort? 
the  paddles,  hold  one  paddle  firmly  in  the  left  hand,  and  roll 
a  piece  of  butter  on  that  with  the  paddle  in  the  right  hand 
until  round. 

SANDWICHES 

I  The  Bread — Sandwiches  may  be  prepared  from  white, 
brown,  graham  or  entire  wheat  bread.  Crackers,  pastry,  and 
sweet  wafers  are  sometimes  used  for  fancy  sandwiches.  A  bread 
of  fine  grain  cuts  to  the  best  advantage.  It  should  be  at  least 
24  hours  old. 

II  Slicing — Bread  should  be  cut  in  thin  slices  for  making 
sandwiches.  It  may  be  handled  to  better  advantage  if  the  slice 
is  spread  with  butter  before  being  cut  from  the  loaf. 

III  The  Shape  of  Sandwiches — Care  should  be  taken  to 
cut  the  bread  in  regular  pieces  that  match  one  another.  If  the 
loaf  is  large,  these  are  usually  divided  into  sections.  A  long 
narrow  sandwich  is  most  easily  handled.  Sandwiches  may  be 
trimmed  into  shape  either  before  or  after  being  spread.  Except 
for  a  hearty  sandwich  the  crust  may  be  removed  and  the  sand- 
wich may  usually  be  made  more  attractive  by  cutting  in  fancy 
shapes;  for  example,  in  squares,  triangular  pieces,  narrow 
strips,  rounds,  or  with  a  fancy  cutter.  The  edges  must  always 
be  perfectly  smooth. 


225 


IV  Spreading  the  Sandwich — The  butter  for  spreading  the 
sandwich  should  first  be  creamed  as  in  making  cakes.  It  will 
then  spread  more  easily,  and  the  bread  will  not  be  broken  up. 
A  spatula  or  soft  knife  is  desirable  for  spreading  the  butter. 

V  Keeping  Sandwiches — Sandwiches  should  be  protected 
from  drying  by  covering  with  a  damp  cloth  as  soon  as  they 
have  been  made.  If  they  are  to  be  kept  for  some  time  before 
being  used,  they  should  be  put  in  a  cold  place  in  a  stone  jar,  or 
well-wrapped.  If  they  are  to  be  packed,  it  may  be  desirable 
to  wrap  the  sandwiches  in  paraffin  paper. 

VI  Serving  of  Sandwiches — Sandwiches  may  be  served 
piled  neatly  on  a  plate  or  each  sandwich  may  be  separately 
wrapped  in  paraffin  paper.  When  served  with  afternoon  tea, 
sandwiches  are  usually  placed  on  a  doily  on  a  pretty  plate.  Hot 
sandwiches  are  sometimes  prepared  with  a  hot  sauce  and  it  is 
then  necessary  to  serve  them  with  a  fork. 

VII  Accompaniments  to  serve  with  Sandwiches — Coffee  is 
the  beverage  most  appropriately  served  with  sandwiches..  Tea 
comes  next.  Cocoa  and  chocolate  are  good  with  a  dainty  sand- 
wich of  sweet  variety.  Fruit  drinks  are  frequently  served  with 
sandwiches. 

VIII  Economy  in  Making  Sandwiches — ^When  making 
sandwiches  one  should  plan  to  economize  by  utilizing  the  trim- 
mings of  the  bread  for  scalloped  dishes,  poultry  stuffings, 
and  puddings,  and  the  crusts  for  crumbing  croquettes,  fried  cut- 
lets, etc.  Left-over  portions  of  foods  can  frequently  be  utilized 
in  sandwich  fillings. 

IX  Fillings  for  Sandwiches — Fillings  of  various  kinds 
may  be  spread  between  the  slices  of  bread. 

(1)  Meat  that  has  been  cooked  until  very  tender  may  be 
cut  in  very  thin  slices  across  the  grain  or  chopped  and  seasoned 
with  salt  and  mustard,  Worcestershire  sauce,  horseradish,  May- 
onnaise, etc. 


226 


(2)  Fish  may  be  flaked,  chopped,  or  pounded,  and 
flavored  with  onion  juice,  lemon;  minced  olives  or  pickles, 
Worcestershire  sauce,  tabasco,  salad  oil,  vinegar,  or  mayonnaise. 

(3)  Hot  sandwiches  may  be  prepared  with  a  filling  of 
sliced  meat  or  fish  and  covered  with  a  hot  gravy  or  white 
sauce;  or  crisp  slices  of  freshly  broiled  bacon  may  be  used 
between  slices  of  bread. 

(4)  Eggs  may  be  used,  hard  cooked  and  sliced  or  chopped 
and  seasoned,  or  served  with  a  salad  dressing  or  lettuce. 

(5)  Vegetables  may  be  used  for  sandwich  fillings  by 
adding  mayonnaise  dressing  or  salad  oil. 

(6)  Cheese.  Cream  cheese  may  be  softened  with  cream 
and  delicately  seasoned  or  combined  with  pimentoes  and  nuts, 
or  hard  cheese  may  be  sliced  or  grated  and  seasoned  with  mus- 
tard, cayenne,  and  other  seasonings  for  the  preparation  of 
sandwiches. 

(7)  Nuts  may  be  finely  chopped  and  salted  or  combined 
with  salad  dressing  or  cheese,  or  made  into  sweet  fillings  with 
finely-chopped  raisins,  dates,  etc.  Nut  butters  are  also  a  valu- 
able sandwich  filling. 

(8)  Sweet  fillings  are  frequently  used  in  sandwiches.  For 
these,  jelly,  jam,  dates,  raisins,  preserved  ginger,  candied 
orange  peel,  or  maraschino  cherries,  chopped  and  moistened  with 
fruit  juice  may  be  used. 

(9)  Flavored  butters.  Plain  butter  may  be  creamed  and 
various  flavors  added  and  beaten  until  smooth  and  thoroughly 
blended.  The  flavored  butter  may  be  packed  in  a  jar  and  kept 
cold  until  it  is  needed.  Flavors  which  may  be  added  to  the 
butter  in  this  way  are  anchovy,  caviar,  sardines,  cheese,  curry 
powder,  horseradish,  olives,  pickles,  mint,  water-cress,  etc.  The 
fancy  butter  makes  an  attractive  filling,  is  less  in  evidence  than 
other  fillings,  and  makes  the  work  of  spreading  the  sandwiches 
simpler. 


SCALLOPED  DISHES 

Scalloped  dishes  are  made  by  combining  foods  with  but- 
tered crumbs  and  baking.  If  the  vegetable  or  fruit  contains  a 
large  amount  of  juice,  buttered  crumbs  are  used  alone.  If  the 
food  be  a  dry  vegetable,  meat,  or  fish  it  is  first  combined  with  a 
thin  white  sauce,  then  covered  with  buttered  crumbs.  Scalloped 
dishes  are  valuable  because  they  hold  the  heat  well,  special 
flavors  are  developed  by  the  intense  heat  of  the  oven,  and  the 
buttered  crumbs  and  white  sauce  make  the  nutritive  value  of 
the  dish  higher,  especially  where  fat  is  added. 

Crumbs  for  scalloped  dishes,  dressings,  etc.,  are  prepared 
from  the  inside  of  stale  bread,  breaking  it  up  with  the  fingers, 
grating  or  rubbing  two  pieces  together.  Measurements  for 
bread  crumbs  refer  to  soft  broken  crumbs,  not  to  dry  rolled 
crumbs.  If  dry  crumbs  are  used  one  half  the  amount  is  suf- 
ficient. 

Crumbs  for  scalloped  dishes  are  buttered  by  adding  them 
to  melted  butter  and  mixing  thoroughly.  Use  1  tablespoon 
butter  to  1  cup  criunbs.  For  savory  dishes  the  crumbs  should  be 
seasoned,  using  }i  teaspoon  salt  and  a  sprinkling  of  white  or 
Cayenne  pepper  to  each  1  cup  of  crumbs. 

Dishes  prepared  "au  Gratin"  are  prepared  as  scalloped 
dishes  with  white  sauce  and  the  addition  of  grated  cheese.  The 
food  value  of  the  dish  is  thus  decidedly  increased. 

Scalloped  dishes  and  dishes  "au  Gratin"  are  prepared  in 
large  baking  dishes  or  in  individual  ramekins.  They  are  served 
hot  in  the  dish.  The  dishes  "au  Gratin"  may  serve  as  a  sub- 
stitute for  a  meat  dish. 

Note: — See  recipes  for  scalloped  apples,  cabbage,  corn, 
egg  plant,  fish,  meat,  onions,  oysters,  potatoes,  potatoes  with 
eggs,  potatoes  with  white  sauce,  rhubarb,  rice,  salmon,  and 
tomatoes. 


227 


228 


GARNISHINGS 

Food  is  garnished  (1)  to  please  the  eye;  (2)  to  improve  the 
flavor;  (3)  to  increase  the  nutritive  value;  (4)  to  increase  the 
bulk  or  sufficiency  for  service. 

A  garnish  must  meet  the  following  requirements: 

1  It  must  be  edible. 

2  It  must  be  appropriate  to  the  dish  with  which  it  is 
served. 

3  It  must  be  pleasing  to  the  eye. 

4  It  must  not  interfere  with  the  service  of  the  dish. 

5  It  must  be  ready  to  put  on  so  that  the  service  of  the  meal 
is  not  delayed  and  the  hot  foods  do  not  become  cooled 
by  standing. 

6  It  must  not  be  used  to  cover  up  the  lack  of  skill  in 
cooking. 

Materials  use  for  garnishing  include: — 

1  Fresh  green  vegetables,  washed  and  crisped.  Parsley, 
lettuce,  cress,  etc. 

2  Cooked  vegetables  cut  in  attractive  shapes.  Beets, 
carrots,  etc. 

3  Potatoes.    French-fried,  riced,  potato  roses. 

4  Croquettes  of  vegetables  and  cereals. 

5  Sauces  of  good  consistency  and  color. 

6  Small  fish,  oysters,  mushrooms,  strips  of  bacon,  etc. 

7  Celery  curls,  slices  of  tomato,  pickles,  olives,  etc. 

8  Toast,  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

9  Puff  pastry  cooked  in  attractive  forms. 

10  Jellies,  lemons,  cherries,  etc. 

11  Nuts,  washed  and  blanched,  whole  or  chopped. 

12  Whipped  cream  and  meringues. 

Flowers,  nasturtiums,  and  violets,  are  occasionally  used 
as  a  garnish.  Thus  nasturtiums  may  be  used  with  a 
salad.    Candied  violets  sometimes  garnish  a  cake.  How- 


229 


ever,  flowers  are  more  frequently  used  to  decorate  the 
table  or  the  dish  than  the  food  stuff.  Thus  a  rose  is 
sometimes  laid  on  the  plate  beside  the  sherbet  cup  or  on 
the  invalid  tray. 


SALADS 

Salads  may  be  divided  into  classes  according  to  the  ma- 
terials of  which  they  are  prepared. 

Class  I — Salads  prepared  from  the  green  salad  plants, 
used  when  green  and  tender,  and  prepared  without  cooking. 
Examples — Lettuce,  endive,  watercress,  celery,  nasturtium,  dan- 
delion, peppergrass,  and  mustard. 

Class  II. — Salads  prepared  from  uncooked  vegetables, 
fruits,  and  nuts.  Examples — Tomato,  cucumber,  onion,  cab- 
bage, radish,  sweet  pepper,  olive,  apple,  banana,  orange,  grape 
fruit,  pineapple,  pear,  cherry,  grape,  almond,  English  walnut, 
pecan,  hazel  nut. 

Class  III — Salads  prepared  from  cooked  vegetables.  Ex- 
amples— Potato,  beet,  carrot,  asparagus,  spinach,  peas,  beans, 
cauliflower,  artichokes,  rice. 

Class  IV — Salads  made  from  cooked  meats,  fish,  eggs,  and 
cheese.  Examples — Chicken,  sweetbreads,  ham,  veal,  tongue, 
salmon,  shrimp,  lobster,  sardine,  oyster  and  crab. 

Class  V — Salads  made  from  vegetable,  meat  or  fish  stock, 
and  prepared  in  the  form  of  a  jelly.  Examples — Pressed 
chicken,  aspic  jelly,  sardines  in  lemon  jelly,  tomato,  cucumber, 
and  mint. 

Salad  dressings  are  made  with  oil  as  a  foundation  or 
with  butter  or  cream  as  a  foundation. 

Oil  salad  dressings  include: 

(1)  The  French  Dressing — prepared  by  combining  oil, 
vinegar,  and  seasonings  until  thoroughly  blended,  used  with  all 
the  fresh  green  salad  plants,  with  vegetable  and  fruit  salads, 


230 


231 


and  to  marinate  the  cooked  vegetables,  meats  and  fish  used  for 
salads. 

(2)  Mayonnaise  Dressing — prepared  by  combining  oil, 
vinegar,  and  seasonings  with  egg-yolks  and  cream  by  cooking, 
used  for  vegetable,  meat,  fish,  egg,  and  nut  salads. 

(3)  Cooked  Mayonnaise  Dressing — prepared  by  combin- 
ing oil,  vinegar,  and  seasonings  with  egg-yolks  and  cream  by 
cooking,  used  as  a  substitute  for  Mayonnaise. 

Cream  Salad  Dressings  are  prepared  by  combining  butter 
or  cream  with  vinegar  and  seasonings,  and  sometimes  with  eggs 
and  milk,  usually  by  cooking.  (Mock  Mayonnaise). 

Preparation  of  Salad  Materials 

All  green  materials  used  for  salads  should  be  fresh,  clean, 
crisp,  and  cold. 

All  cooked  materials  should  be  carefully  picked  over,  well- 
chilled,  and  cut  in  attractive  forms. 

Left-over  portions  of  cooked  vegetables,  meat,  fish,  and 
eggs,  may  be  utilized  in  salads  if  judiciously  combined. 

Flavors  should  be  carefully  combined. 

Garnishes  should  be  attractive  and  appropriate. 

The  salad  should  be  combined  just  before  being  served, 
each  part  being  well-chilled  before  combining. 

To  Marinate — Cover  the  salad  materials  with  French 
Dressing,  combine  well,  and  chill  for  a  time  before  serving  so 
that  dressing  is  absorbed. 

Combinations  for  Salads — Great  care  must  be  tak.en  to 
combine  in  a  salad  only  flavors  which  will  blend  in  an  agreeable 
manner. 

Delicately  flavored  materials  must  not  be  used  with  those 
of  strong  flavors. 

There  must  be  some  distinctly  pleasing  flavor  about  the 
salad  to  render  it  appetizing. 


232 


Some  fresh  green  salad  plant  should  be  used  in  every  salad 
if  possible  to  make  it  refreshing. 

Salad  Seasonings — Onion,  leeks,  chives,  celery,  celery  seed, 
celery  salt,  green  peppers,  pimentoes,  cayenne,  paprica,  pepper- 
corn. Tabasco,  catsup,  mustard  seed,  tarragon,  olives,  horse- 
radish, cloves,  lemons,  sugar,  salt,  etc.,  are  seasonings  used  for 
salads. 

Salad  Garnishes — The  garnish  for  salad  should  be  some- 
thing edible,  attractive,  and  appropriate  as  an  accompaniment 
to  materials  used  in  salad. 

Lettuce,  endive,  parsley,  water-cress,  celery  leaves,  nastur- 
tium leaves  and  flowers,  pickles,  olives,  pimolas,  nuts,  lemons, 
green  peppers,  capers,  beans,  beets,  radishes,  hard  cooked  eggs, 
and  whipped  cream  are  materials  used  to  garnish  salads. 

Serving  Salads — Salads  are  served  as  a  course  at  luncheon, 
dinner  or  supper,  or  as  an  accompaniment  to  the  fish,  meat  or 
game  course.  When  served  as  a  separate  course,  the  salad  should 
follow  the  meat. 

Salads  also  form  an  attractive  dish  for  light  refreshments. 

Only  vegetable  or  fruit  salads  or  salads  with  French 
Dressing  should  be  used  for  dinner  salads;  those  with  May- 
onnaise or  rich  cream  dressings  should  be  used  for  luncheons, 
supper  or  refreshments. 

French  Dressing  is  often  prepared  and  added  to  the  salad 
by  the  host  or  hostess  at  the  table. 

Salad  Accompaniments — Salads  are  accompanied  by  wa- 
fers, sandwiches  of  thin  bread  and  butter  (brown,  white  or 
graham),  rolls,  cheese  straws  and  other  cheese  preparations. 

Value  of  Salads. 

1  Salads  are  healthful,  adding  to  the  diet  fresh,  green, 
uncooked  vegetables  and  a  mild  acid  which  is  stimulating  and 
adds  zest  to  the  appetite. 


22>i 


2  Salads  are  nutritious,  adding  oil  or  fat  in  an  easily 
digested  form  to  food. 

3  Salads  are  economical,  because  left-over  portions  can 
be  combined  and  used  advantageously. 

4  Salads  are  attractive,  adding  much  to  the  appearance 
of  the  table,  through  coloring  and  possibilities  of  arrangement, 
thus  aiding  the  appetite  of  those  who  eat  and  awakening  the 
interest  and  developing  the  artistic  skill  of  the  cook. 

RECIPES    FOR   SALAD    DRESSINGS 
French  Dressing 

^  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

^  teaspoon  pepper  3  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Have   oil    and   vinegar   very   cold.     Put   ingredients   in   a 
bowl  and  stir  briskly  until  thoroughly  emulsified,  or  pour  in- 
gredients into  a  bottle  and  shake  well.    Serve  at  once. 
Sufficient  for  1  pint  vegetables  or  fruit. 

Cream    Salad   Dressing 

1  cup  thick  cream,  sweet  or  1  teaspoon  salt 

sour  y^  teaspoon  white  pepper 

6  tablespoons  vinegar  Cayenne 
4  tablespoons  sugar 

Add  vinegar  and  seasonings  to  cream  and  stir  until  sugar 
is  dissolved.     Serves  10. 

(Good  for  cabbage  and  apple  salads.) 

Cooked  Salad  Dressing 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs 

5^  teaspoon  mustard  3^  cup  milk  (heated) 

Cayenne  2  teaspoons  butter 

1  teaspoon  sugar  ^  cup  vinegar  (heated) 

Mix  the  salt,  mustard,  cayenne,  and  sugar  together  until 
well-blended,  add  the  eggs,  mix  thoroughly  and  add  hot  milk. 
Add  the  butter,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  thickens, 


234 


stirring  constantly.    Remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the  heated 
vinegar.     If  it  curdles,  place  upper  part  of  the  double  boiler  in 
cold  water,  and  beat  with  an  egg  beater  until  smooth.   Serves  10. 
(Good  for  cole  slaw  and  potato  salad.) 

Mock  Mayonnaise  Salad  Dressingr 

54  cup  butter  1  Yi  tablespoons  sugar 

1  tablespoon  flour  Cayenne 

^  cup  thin  cream  or  milk  4  egg  yolks  or  two  whole 

Yz  tablespoon  mustard  eggs 

2  teaspoons  salt  ^  cup  vinegar 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  salt,  then  add  the  cream 
and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Beat  eggs  well.  Mix  the  sugar,  cay- 
enne and  mustard  and  add  to  the  egg  mixture.  Add  to  white 
sauce;  cook  over  hot  water  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
vinegar  slowly.   Strain  and  chill.    Serves  16  to  20. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 

1  teaspoon  mustard  2  egg  yolks 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  olive  oil 

1  teaspoon  powdered  sugar         1  ^  tablespoons  vinegar  or 
Cayenne  lemon  juice 

Mix  the  mustard,  salt,  sugar,  and  cayenne  until  well- 
blended,  add  the  egg  yolks,  then  add  the  oil  drop  by  drop,  beat- 
ing with  an  egg-beater  or  wooden  spoon. 

When  it  begins  to  thicken,  add  the  vinegar  drop  by  drop; 
then  alternately  the  remainder  of  the  oil  and  the  vinegar.  It 
should  be  a  thick  dressing.  If  it  curdles,  beat  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  and  gradually  add  the  dressing  to  it,  beating  until  all  is 
used.    Serves  16  to  20. 

Cooked  Mayonnaise  with  Oil 

1  tablespoon  mustard  ^  cup  oil 

1  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  vinegar 

Cayenne  4  egg  yolks 
1  tablespoon  sugar 


235 


Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  oil  and  vinegar,  and 
heat  the  mixture.  Pour  slowly  on  well-beaten  egg  yolks.  Re- 
turn to  the  double  boiler.  Stir  until  thick.  Strain  and  chill. 
Serves  12  to  16. 

RECIPES  FOR  SALADS 

Cole  Slaw 

Pour  cooked  dressing  (while  hot)  over  shaved  cabbage^ 
mix  well,  chill,  and  serve.    Serves  10  to  12. 

3  cups  shaved  cabbage  1  recipe  cooked  salad  dressing 

Tomato  Salad 

Tomatoes  French  Dressing 

Lettuce 

Arrange  slices  of  tomato  on  lettuce  leaves  and  dress  with 
French  Dressing.    Add  a  few  slices  of  cucumber  if  desired. 

Tomato  and  Celery  Salad 

6  tomatoes  1  head  lettuce 

1  stalk  celery  1  recipe  French  Dressing 

After  skinning  the  tomatoes,  scoop  out  a  small  portion  of 
the  center  from  the  top  and  fill  with  finely  cut  celery.  Arrange 
on  a  bed  of  lettuce  for  serving  and  dress  with  French  or 
Mayonnaise  Dressing.    Serves  6. 

Lettuce  Salad 

Lettuce  French  Dressing 

Sprinkle  crisp,  dry  lettuce  leaves  with  French  Dressing. 

Toss   about   so   that   they   may   become   thoroughly   combined. 

Serve  very  cold.     Garnish  with  slices  of  red  radishes  if  desired, 

or  flavor  with  a  few  drops  of  grated  onion. 

Cucumber  and  Radish  Salad 

6  small  cucumbers  1  head  lettuce 

6  red  radishes  1  recipe  French  Dressing 

Wash  and  pare  cucumbers  and  remove  ends.    Slice  nearly 


236 


across,  but  do  not  loosen  slices.  Slice  a  red  radish  (which  has 
not  been  peeled)  and  put  slices  between  the  slics  of  cucumber 
and  serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf.  Dress  with  French  Dressing. 
Serves  6. 

Celery  and  Cabbage  Salad 

1  small  cabbage  1  recipe  cream  salad  dressing 

1  stalk  celery  Parsle}' 

Remove  outside  leaves  from  a  small,  solid,  white  cabbage 
and  cut  off  stalk  close  to  leaves.  Cut  out  the  center  without 
removing  the  large  leaves,  leaving  them  attached  to  form  a 
large  cup.  Shred  center  leaves  finely  with  a  sharp  knife.  Mix 
with  celery  which  has  been  washed,  dried,  and  cut  in  small 
pieces. 

Add  cream  salad  dressing  and  refill  head  of  cabbage.  Serve 
on  a  large  salad  plate.    Garnish  with  parsley.    Serves  10  to  20. 

Horseradish   Salad 

1  pint  cooked  beets,  ^  cup  horseradish 

chopped  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  pint  raw  cabbage,  Yz  tablespoon  salt 

chopped  Vinegar  to  cover 

y^  teaspoon  paprika 
Mix  the  ingredients  well  together.   Cover  with  vinegar  and 
let  stand  an  hour  before  serving.   Serve  cold. 

An  excellent  relish  to  serve  with  meat  or  fish.  Will  keep 
several  days.    Serves  25. 

Relish 

1  cup  chopped  cabbage  1  tablespoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  chopped  green  ^4  teaspoon  pepper 

peppers  1  teaspoon  celery  seed 

1  chopped  onion  5^  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  chopped  Vinegar  to  cover 

parsley 


237 


Mix  the  ingredients  together  and  let  stand  an  hour  before 
serving.    Serve  cold  as  a  relish  with  meats.    Serves  12. 

Vegetable  Salad 

1  cooked  beet  ^  cup  cooked  green  string 

1  cooked  carrot  beans 

1  cooked  potato  1  head  lettuce 

1  recipe  French  Dressing 
y2  recipe  Mock  Mayonnaise  or  Mayonnaise  dressing 

Wash  and  crisp  the  lettuce.  Cut  the  beet,  carrot,  and  po- 
tato into  ^  inch  cubes.  Marinate  each  vegetable  separately 
with  French  dressing  and  chill.  When  ready  to  serve  arrange 
lettuce  on  plates  for  individual  serving.  Then  put  diced  vege- 
tables in  layers  on  each  plate,  dress  lightly  with  salad  dressing, 
and  garnish  with  string  beans.    Serves  6  to  12. 

Potato  Salad 

4  cold  boiled  potatoes  2  hard  cooked  eggs 

1  small  cucumber  2  cold  boiled  beets 
1  stalk  celery  French  Dressing 

1  bunch  parsley  Mayonnaise  dressing 

^  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

Dice  potatoes,  cucumbers,  and  celery;  marinate  with 
French  dressing,  and  chill.  When  ready  to  serve  arrange  on  a 
chop  plate  in  a  mound,  surround  with  a  border  of  parsley,  and 
garnish  top  with  chopped  parsley,  chopped  whites  of  eggs,  riced 
yolks  of  eggs,  finely  chopped  beets,  and  mayonnaise. 

Half  a  can  of  chopped  olives  or  pimolas  makes  an  attrac- 
tive addition  to  the  salad. 

A  simpler  potato  salad  may  be  made  by  seasoning  the  po- 
tatoes with  the  juice  of  one  small  onion,  and  dressing  with  the 
hot  cooked  salad  dressing.  Chill  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 
Serves  12  to  16. 


238 


Mexican    Salad 

1  cucumber  1  bunch  parsley 

2  tomatoes  1  onion 

1  stalk  celery  2  recipes  French  dressing 

1  Mango  pepper 
Slice,  chill,  and  drain  cucumber;  slice  tomatoes  in  quar- 
ters, chill,  and  drain.  Slice  celery  in  one-eighth  inch  pieces; 
chop  Mango  pepper,  parsley,  and  onion  fine.  Chill  very  thor- 
oughly, dress  with  French  dressing,  and  serve  from  salad  bowl. 
Mayonnaise  or  cream  salad  dressing  may  be  used  if  de- 
sired.   Serves  10  to  12. 

Egg  Salad 

Yz  dozen  hard  cooked  eggs  ^  cup  Mayonnaise  or 

1  head  lettuce  cream  dressing 
Wash  and  crisp  the  lettuce,  cool  eggs  in  cold  water,  slice 

whites  in  rings,  and  put  the  yolks  through  a  potato  ricer.  Ar- 
range lettuce  leaves  on  plates  for  individual  serving,  lay  rings 
of  white  on  lettuce  leaf,  and  fill  each  ring  with  yolks  of  egg. 
Put  remaining  yolk  in  center  of  plate,  and  dress  all  with  salad 
dressing.     Serves  8  to  10. 

Stuffed  Eggs 

12  hard  cooked  eggs  Cayenne 

2  teaspoons  salt  2  tablspoons  olive  oil 
2  tablespoons  vinegar  Lettuce  leaves 

1  teaspoon  mustard 

Cut  the  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise  or  across;  remove  the 
yolks,  mash  fine;  add  the  seasonings  to  yolk;  mix  well;  refill 
the  whites;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  dressing,  if  desired 
add  ^  pound  ham,  finely  chopped,  to  the  yolks.    Serves  12. 

Cheese  and  Pimento  Salad 

1  cake  cream  cheese  2  pimentoes  finely  chopped 

1  cup  mock  mayonnaise  1  head  lettuce 

salad  dressing 


239 


Cream  the  cheese  until  soft  and  then  fold  into  it  1  cup  of 
thick  salad  dressing.  Add  2  pimentoes,  chopped  very  fine,  and 
serve  on  crisp  leaves  of  lettuce.    Serves  8  to  10. 

Chicken  Salad 

1  cold  cooked  chicken  1  head  lettuce 

(2  cups)  ^  cup  French  dressing 

1  bunch  celery (2  cups)  1  cup  majyonnaise  dressing 

1  cup  small  tender  peas,    cooked 

Carefully  remove  all  skin,  bone,  and  gristle  from  the  meat 
of  the  chicken,  and  cut  all  the  meat  in  fine  even  dice. 

Wash  and  clean  the  celery,  dry  it,  and  slice  it  in  small 
pieces.    Have  an  equal  quantity  of  chicken  and  celery. 

Drain  peas  when  cooked  and  chill  thoroughly. 

Combine  diced  chicken,  celery,  and  peas,  and  marinate 
with  French  dressing.  Set  where  it  can  become  well-chilled,  and 
let  stand  1  hour  or  until  ready  to  serve.  Then  add  mayonnaise 
dressing,  and  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves,  which  have  been  cleaned, 
and  crisped.  (One  pair  sweetbreads  cooked  and  diced,  or  ^  can 
mushrooms  may  be  substituted  for  the  peas.  One-fourth  can  of 
chopped  pimolas  or  pickles  also  make  an  attractive  addition  to 
the  salad.) 

Mock  Mayonnaise  salad  dressing  may  be  thinned  with 
whipped  cream  and  substituted  for  French  and  Mayonnaise 
dressings.   Serves  20  to  24. 

Tomato  Jelly  Salad 

2  tablespoons  granulated  3  peppercorns 

gelatine  1  teaspoon  sugar 

Yz  cup  cold  water  1  slice  onion 

1  can  tomatoes  3  cloves 

1  piece  bay  leaf  2  teaspoons  salt 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  until  soft.  Cook  the  toma- 
toes and  seasoning  (except  salt)  for  20  minutes.  Strain  and  add 
the  salt.    Pour  the  hot  liquid  over  the  softened  gelatine;   stir 


240 


until  it  is  dissolved;  then  pour  into  custard  cups  which  have 
been  wet  with  cold  water.  Turn  from  mould  and  serve  very 
cold  on  lettuce  leaves  with  Mayonnaise  dressing  or  Mock  May- 
onnaise dressing.    Serves  10  to  12. 

Cucumber    Jelly    Salad 

3  cucumbers,  medium  sized  1^  teaspoons  tarragon 

2  tablespoons  gelatine  vinegar 

1  large  or  two  small  lemons,  Salt 

juice  Pepper 

Paprika 
Pare  and  grate  the  cucumbers;  simmer  1  cup  water  5 
minutes.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  half  cup  cold  water,  add  Yz  cup 
boiling  water;  strain  the  hot  cucumber  liquor  into  it;  add 
lemon  juice,  vinegar,  and  seasonings.  Pour  into  a  ring  mould 
and  chill.  Serve  with  sliced  tomatoes,  nuts,  celery,  pimolas, 
or  radishes.  Dress  with  Mayonnaise  or  Mock  Mayonnaise 
dressing.  Serves  10  to  12.  Pieces  of  fish  may  be  put  in  the 
jelly  just  before  it  becomes  set. 

Jellied   Cabbage    Salad 

Va,  cup  cold  water  ^  cup  sugar 

2  cups  boiling  water  ^  cup  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  gelatine  2  cups  shredded  cabbage 

1  pimento,  cut  in  strips 
Soften  the  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  the  boiling  water, 
and  stir  until  the  gelatine  is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Add  the 
sugar  and  lemon  juice.  When  the  sugar  is  all  dissolved,  set 
aside  to  chill.  When  it  begins  to  grow  syrupy,  stir  in  the 
shredded  cabbage  and  sliced  pimentoes.  Chill  thoroughly  and 
when  stiff  turn  from  mould.  Serve  garnished  with  white 
leaves  of  the  cabbage  or  in  individual  small  cabbage  leaves. 

Mint   Jelly    Salad 

2  bunches  mint  ^  cup  cold  water 

1  pint  boiling  water  3  lemons,  juice 

2  tablespoons  gelatine  ^  cup  sugar 


241 


Pour  boiling  water  over  mint  and  crush  well. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Add  sugar  and  hot  water  in 
which  mint  has  been  crushed.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved, 
then  add  the  lemon  juice.  Strain  through  a  cheese  cloth. 
Chill  in  moulds.  Turn  from  moulds  and  serve  as  salad  with 
lamb  or  mutton.  Dress  with  Mayonnaise  or  Mock  Mayonnaise 
dressing.    Serves  12  to  16. 

Fruit   Salad 

2  oranges  ^  recipe  Cream,  Mayon- 

2  bananas  naise,  or  Mock 

12  English  walnuts  '  Mayonnaise    dressing 

1  head  lettuce 

Wash  and  crisp  the  lettuce.  Peel  oranges,  cut  in  slices, 
remove  seeds,  then  cut  slices  into  small  pieces.  Peel  bananas, 
and  cut  crosswise  into  thin  slices;  break  half  the  nut-meats 
into  small  pieces.  Arrange  lettuce  for  individual  serving, 
into  each  lettuce  cup  put  a  layer  of  oranges,  nuts  and  bananas. 
Dress  with  mayonnaise,  mock  mayonnaise,  or  cream  dressing. 
Garnish  with  whole  nut  meats.    Serve  at  once.    Serves  8  to  10. 

Grape-fruit,  grapes,  canned  pineapple,  peaches,  pears, 
or  cherries  may  be  combined  for  fruit  salads. 

Apple  Salad 

2  cups  apple,  cut  in  small  1  head  lettuce 

dice  1  cup  Cream  or    Mayonnaise 

1  cup  celery  dressing 

1 2  English  w^alnuts 
Wash  and  crisp  the  lettuce.  Wash  and  scrub  the  celery, 
dry  thoroughly  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Wash,  quarter,  core, 
and  pare  the  apples,  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Chop  the  nut 
meats  fine.  Combine  the  celery,  apple,  and  nuts  with  enough 
salad  dressing  to  moisten  thoroughly,  and  arrange  on  a  bed  of 
lettuce.    Serve  at  once.    Serves  8  to  10. 


242 


Pineapple  Salad 

1  head  lettuce  Salt 

1  can  sliced  pineapple  Cayenne  or  red  pepper 

1  cake  cream  cheese  1  recipe  French  dressing 
y^  cup  chopped  nuts 

Wash  and  crisp  the  lettuce.  Drain  the  slices  of  pineapple. 
Cream  the  cheese,  add  the  nuts  and  salt,  shape  into  balls.  Ar- 
range the  pineapple  on  a  bed  of  lettuce.  In  the  center  of  each 
round  put  a  ball  of  cream  cheese.  Sprinkle  with  red  pepper 
and  cover  with  French  dressing,  which  has  been  made  with 
lemon  juice,  or  dress  with  mayonnaise.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Frozen  Fruit  Salad 

Prepare  a  combination  of  cooked  and  citrus  fruits  as  for 
fruit  salad  or  fruit  cocktail,  sweeten  slightly  and  add  one  table- 
spoon softened  gelatine  for  every  quart  of  the  mixture.  Pour 
into  an  ice  cream  freezer  and  surround  with  chopped  ice  and 
coarse  salt,  using  one-half  as  much  salt  as  ice.  Let  stand  for 
two  or  three  hours  opening  the  can  to  stir  the  mixture  once  or 
twice  during  the  period  of  freezing.  When  frozen  stiff,  serve 
on  lettuce  leaves  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

The  mixture  may  be  varied  by  adding  whipped  cream  or 
cooked  salad  dressing  before  freezing. 


CAKES 

There  are  two  general  classes  of  cakes — Sponge  Cakes 
and  Butter  Cakes. 

Sponge  Cakes  are  made  light  wholly  by  the  presence  of 
eggs  lightly  beaten  and  are  usually  made  without  baking  pow- 
der, butter,  or  liquid.     Sponge  cakes  include: 

Sponge  Cake  proper,  made  with  the  whole  egg. 

Sunshine  Cakes,  in  which  the  whites  and  only  a  few  of 
the  yolks  are  used. 

White  Sponge  Cakes  or  Angel  Food,  in  which  only  the 
whites  of  eggs  are  used. 

Mock  Sponge  Cakes  contain  some  milk,  water,  or  baking 
powder. 

Butter  Cakes  are  made  with  butter  and  resemble  other  bat- 
ters, except  that  the  butter,  sugar,  and  eggs  are  usually  larger 
in  amount,  and  the  texture  of  the  baked  batter  is  much  finer 
and  more  tender  than  in  muffins  and  quick  breads. 

Rules  for  Cakes 

No.  I  Pans — For  butter  cakes,  the  pans  may  be  thoroughly 
greased  with  the  same  kind  of  fat  that  is  to  be  used  in  the 
mixture,  or  sprinkled  with  flour  or  lined  with  greased  paper. 

For  sponge  cakes  the  pans  should  be  clean,  smooth,  and 
dry. 

No.  II  Materials — Pastry  flour  should  be  used  in  all  cakes. 
If  bread  flour  must  be  used,  make  the  measure  scant. 

Fine  granulated  sugar,  good  butter  or  other  sweet  fat,  and 
fresh  eggs  should  be  used. 

No.  Ill  Utensils — Use  an  earthen  bowl,  never  a  tin  basin 
for  mixing  cakes.  Stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  spatula,  and 
use  a  dover  egg  beater  or  wire  whip  for  beating. 

No.    IV  Method  of  Combining — The  method   of  mixing 

243 


244 


cake  will  vary  with  the  materials  and  the  proportions  in  which 
they  are  used. 

In  general  sponge  cakes  are  combined  by  cutting  and  fold- 
ing all  the  other  ingredients  into  well-beaten  egg  whites;  butter 
cakes  are  combined  by  adding  all  other  ingredients  to  well- 
creamed  fat. 

No.  V  Oven — The  oven  should  be  hot  enough  to  brown  a 
small  piece  of  white  unglazed  paper  to  golden  brown  or  Manila 
color  in — 

2}^  minutes  for  layer  cake 

3  minutes  for  chocolate  cake  and  ginger  bread. 
3^  minutes  for  loaf  cake. 

4  minutes  for  sponge  cake. 

5  minutes  for  Angel  Food  Cake  and  Meringues. 

No.  VI  Baking — The  time  for  baking  will  vary  with  the 
size,  shape,  and  kind  of  cake. 

Sponge  cake  should  cook  from  40  minutes  to  1  hour. 

A  butter  cake  should  cook — 

20-30  minutes  in  a  shallow  layer  pan. 

20-25  minutes  in  individual  muf&n  pans. 

40-60  minutes  in  a  loaf  pan. 

Tests  for  baking — 

1  The  cake  shrinks  from  the  sides  of  the  pan. 

2  The  crust  springs  back  when  touched  with  the  finger. 

3  The  loud  ticking  sound  ceases. 

4  A  needle  will  come  out  clean  if  the  cake  is  pierced. 

5  The  cake  is  nicely  browned. 

No.  VII  Care  After  Baking — When  a  butter  cake  is  re- 
moved from  the  oven,  let  it  stand  in  the  pan  about  3  minutes, 
then  loosen  with  a  spatula,  and  turn  it  gently  on  to  a  wire  cake 
cooler.  Remove  paper  and  leave  until  cool.  Do  not  handle  the 
cake  while  hot. 

A  sponge  cake  should  be  left  in  the  pan  until  cold.  Invert 


245 


the  pan  so  that   the   air   can  pass   around   it.     When   cooled, 
loosen  well  with  a  spatula. 

Keep  in  a  clean,  ventilated  tin  box  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Yellow  Cake  No.  1 

^  cup  butter  or  oleomar-  2  teaspoons  baking 

garine  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1  >^  cups  flour 

2  eggs  iy2  teaspoons  flavoring  or 
^  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  spice 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  mix  well.  Add 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  then  the  flour  and  baking  powder 
alternately  with  the  milk.  Then  add  flavoring  and  cut  and 
fold  in  whites  of  eggs,  carefully.  Turn  into  two  buttered 
layer  cake  pans  and  bake  at  once  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

For  chocolate  cake  2  ounces  of  melted  chocolate  may  be 
added  after  the  yolks  of  eggs.     Serves  16  to  20. 

Yellow  Cake  No.  2 

^  cup  butter  or  oleo-  %  cup  milk 

margarine  2  cups  flour 

1  ^  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

4  eggs  1  teaspoon  flavoring 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then  add  the 
eggs  which  have  been  well-beaten  together  without  separating. 
xA.dd  the  flour  and  baking  powder  (sifted  together)  alternately 
with  the  milk  ;  then  add  the  flavoring  ;  beat  well.  Bake  in  two 
deep  layer  cake  pans,  or  in  a  loaf  pan,  or  in  muffin  tins,  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven.    Serves  16  to  20. 

White  Cake  No.    1 

^  cup  butter  or  oleo-  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

margarine  ^  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  4  egg  whites 

2  cups  flour  y2  teaspoon  almond  flavoring 
Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually;  add  the  flour 


246 


and  baking  powder  alternately  with  the  milk.  Cut  and  fold  in 
the  whites  of  eggs.  Add  the  flavoring.  Turn  into  buttered 
pans  and  bake  at  once  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Serves  16  to  20. 

White  Cake  No.  2 

^  cup  butter  or  oleo-  2  3^  cups  flour 

margarine  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  ^  cup  sugar  6  egg  whites 

^  cup  milk  Yz  teaspoon  flavoring 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  well.  Add  the 
milk  and  flour  alternately  (having  added  the  baking  powder  to 
the  last  cup  of  flour).  Fold  in  well-beaten  whites  carefully.  Bake 
in  buttered  loaf  pans  45  to  50  minutes,  or  in  three  round  tins 
25  to  30  minutes.    Frost  with  boiled  icing.   Serves  16  to  20. 

White  Cake  Without  Eggs 

4  tablespoons  butter  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla  or  ^ 

1  cup  milk  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  cups  flour 

Cream  the  butter  and  add  the  sugar  gradually.  Then  add 
the  flour,  which  has  been  sifted  with  the  baking  powder,  alter- 
nately with  the  milk.  Add  the  vanilla  or  spice.  Bake  in  small 
gem  pans  or  in  layer  cake  pans  in  a  hot  oven  15  to  20  minutes. 
Serves  12  to  16. 

Spiced  Eggless  Cake  No.  1 

y^r  cup  oleomargarine  or  2  3^  cups  flour 

other  fat  4  teaspoons  baking    powder 

1  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

1  cup  milk  Yz  cup  fruit 

Cream  the  fat,  add  the  sugar.  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  in- 
gredients and  add  alternately  with  the  milk.  Add  the  fruit,  to 
which  a  small  portion  of  the  flour  has  been  added.  Bake  in  a 
loaf  pan  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  40  to  50  minutes.  Serves 
20  to  25. 


247 


Spiced  Eggless  Cake  No.  2 

Yt,  cup  oleomargarine  or  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

other  fat.  ^  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  brown  sugar  ^  teaspoon  cloves 

1  cup  sour  milk  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  raisins 
1  teaspoon  soda 

Cream  the  fat,  add  the  brown  sugar  and  mix  well.  Mix 
and  sift  all  the  dry  ingredients  with  the  flour  and  add  to  the 
sugar  and  fat  alternately  with  the  sour  milk.  Bake  40  to  50 
minutes  in  a  loaf  pan  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.   Serves  16  to  20. 

Gold  Cake 

Yz  cup  butter  Y2  teaspoon  soda 

1 Y2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

8  egg  yolks  Yi  cup  milk 

2Y2  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Mix  the  soda,  flour,  and  cream  of  tartar  and  sift  three 
times.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  until  lemon 
color,  add  to  the  butter  and  sugar.  Mix  well.  Add  the  milk 
and  the  flour  alternately,  add  flavoring.  Beat  well.  Bake  in  a 
loaf  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  30  to  50  minutes,  according  to  the 
thickness  of  the  cake.  Add  Y2  cup  of  currants  if  desired.  Serves 
24. 

Pound  Cake 

1  cup  of  eggs  1  cup  butter 

IY2  cups  granulated  sugar  2  cups  flour 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  add  the  sugar  and  continue  beat- 
ing. Cream  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  beat  very  thoroughly. 
When  all  has  been  well-beaten,  combine  and  beat  well  together. 
Continued  beating  improves  the  texture.  Bake  in  a  medium 
oven  about  1  hour.     Serves  24. 


248 


Sponge  Cake 

6  egg  yolks  6  egg  whites 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  j4,  teaspoon  salt 
^  lemon  rind,  grated 

Beat  the  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  add  the 
sugar  gradually,  beating  meantime,  then  add  the  lemon  juice 
and  rind,  and  carefully  fold  in  whites  of  egg  (beaten  until 
stiff  and  dry).  When  the  whites  are  partially  mixed  with  the 
yolks,  lightly  cut  and  fold  in  flour,  mixed  and  sifted  with 
the  salt.  Bake  in  an  unbuttered  pan,  in  a  slow  oven  for  1  hour. 
Serves  16  to  20. 

Water   Sponge   Cake  (Mock   Sponge   Cake) 

2  eggs  Ys  cup  cold  water 

1  cup  sugar  1^  cups  flour 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  very  thoroughly.  Add  the  sugar, 
lemon  juice,  and  water,  continuing  beating.  Then  cut  and 
fold  in  the  flour  and  baking  powder  and  the  whites  of  eggs 
carefully.  Bake  in  individual  pans  or  in  a  loaf  pan  in  a 
moderate  oven.    Serves  8  to  12. 

Washington  Pie 

3  eggs  }i  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

I'Y  tablespoons  milk  ^  pint  whipped  cream 
1  cup  flour 

Beat  egg  yolks  well,  add  the  sugar,  then  the  milk.  Fold  in 
the  sifted  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  alternately  with  the 
well-beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  a  paper-lined,  round,  layer 
cake  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  30  to  35  minutes.  Just  before 
serving  cover  with  whipped  cream.     Serves  8  to  10. 


249 


Jelly  Roll 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

y2  tablespoon  milk  1  cup  flour 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter 
Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  adding 
the  sugar  gradually,  beating  meanwhile.  Add  the  milk.  Fold 
in  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs.  When  whites  are  partially 
mixed  with  yolks,  lightly  fold  and  cut  in  the  flour  mixed  and 
sifted  with  the  salt  and  baking  powder.  Add  the  butter  last. 
Spread  even  and  thin  in  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  12  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Take  from  oven,  turn  on  to  a  paper  which  has 
been  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar.  Cut  off  dry  crusts  at 
sides  and  ends,  then  spread  with  jelly  or  jam  and  roll  quickly 
while  still  warm.  Wrap  with  paper  to  keep  in  shape.  Serves 
3  to  10. 

White  Sponge  Cake  or  Angel  Food 

1 2  egg  whites  1  }^  teaspoons  cream  of 

\y2  cups  sugar  (measured  tartar 

after  sifting)  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  and  1  tablespoon 
flour 

Sift  the  sugar  5  times  and  sift  the  flour  and  cream  of  tartar 
together  5  times.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a  foam,  but  not  until  stiff. 
Sift  in  the  sugar,  slowly  beating  all  the  time.  Take  care  not  to 
make  the  mixture  stiff.  Sift  in  the  flour  slowly,  mixing  it  with  a 
light,  folding  motion.  Add  the  vanilla.  All  the  work  must  be 
done  quickly  and  lightly.  Bake  in  an  unbuttered  Turk's-head 
pan,  in  a  slow  oven  for  50  to  60  minutes.  Test  the  oven  care- 
fully, for  the  oven  door  should  not  be  opened  for  the  first  20 
minutes  after  the  cake  goes  in.  Remove  the  cake  from  the  oven 
and  place  upside  down  on  a  cake  cooler  until  cake  is  cold.  Then 
loosen  carefully  with  a  spatula.    Serves  20. 


250 

Sunshine  Cake 

1 1  egg  whites  1  cup  flour 

1^  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

3  egg  yolks  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  egg  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar  (which  has 
been  sifted  three  times) gradually  and  continue  beating.  Cut 
and  fold  in  the  well-beaten  yolks  carefully,  add  the  flour 
(which  has  been  sifted  five  times  with  cream  of  tartar) gradually, 
add  flavoring,  and  when  well-mixed  turn  into  an  ungreased 
Turk's-head  pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  50  to  60  minutes. 
Remove  from  oven  and  place  pan  upside  down  on  a  cake  cooler 
until  cake  is  cold,  then  loosen  carefully  with  a  spatula.  Serves  20. 

Spice  Cake 

1  cup  butter  or  other  fat  1  teaspoon  cloves 

3  cups  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon   allspice 

4  eggs  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
1  cup  sour  milk  1  cup  chopped  raisins 
3  cups  flour  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  teaspoon  soda 
Cream  the  fat,  add  the  brown  sugar  slowly,  then  add  the 
well-beaten  eggs.  Sift  the  flour  with  the  soda  and  spices,  and 
add  the  flour  alternately  with  the  milk.  Add  floured  raisins 
and  nuts  and  pour  into  well-buttered  loaf  pans.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  40  to  50  minutes.    Serves  30  to  40. 

Ginger  Bread 

%.  cup  butter  or  other  fat  1  teaspoon  ginger 

^  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  egg  Salt 
3^  cup  molasses  3^  cup  milk  (sour  if 
^  teaspoon  soda  possible) 
1^  cups  flour 
Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then  the  well- 
beaten  egg.    Add  the  molasses.  Sift   all  dry  ingredients  to- 


251 


gether,  and  add  alternately  with  the  milk.  Bake  in  a  buttered 
tin  or  in  gem  pans  in  a  moderate  oven  25  to  35  minutes.  Serves 
8  to  10. 

Pecan   Cake 

Yz  cup  butter  or  oleo-  1  Y\  cup  flour 

margarine  2^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  milk 

3  eggs  %  cup  pecan  nut  meats 

Cream  the  fat,  add  the  sugar  gradually.  Add  the  well- 
beaten  egg  yolks  to  the  sugar  and  fat.  Sift  baking  powder  with 
flour  and  add  alternately  with  the  milk.  Add  the  chopped  nut 
meats.  Lastly  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  turn 
into  two  greased  layer  cake  pans  or  into  gem  pans.  Bake  25  to 
35  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.    Serves  16  to  20. 

Chocolate  Cake 

2  oz.  chocolate  4  eggs 

5  tablespoons  boiling  ^  cup  milk 

water  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yz  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

1  Yi  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water  and  add  boiling  water. 
Cool.  Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  beating  all 
the  time.  Separate  the  eggs,  beat  the  yolks,  and  add  them  to  the 
butter  and  sugar;  add  the  melted  chocolate,  then  add  milk  al- 
ternately with  the  flour  which  has  been  sifted  with  the  baking 
powder.  Add  the  vanilla.  Give  all  a  vigorous  beating.  Beat 
the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  cut  and  fold  them  into 
the  mixture  quickly  and  lightly.  Turn  into  two  greased  layer 
cake  pans,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  30  to  35  minutes. 
Combine  with  chocolate  filling.  Frost  with  boiled  frosting. 
Serves  20  to  24. 


252 


Filling  For  Chocolate  Cake 

3^  tablespoons  flour  1  egg  yolk 

1  cup  milk  Yz  cup  sugar 

1  oz.  chocolate  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  the  flour  and  ^  cup  sugar.  Moisten  with  a  little  cold 
milk,  and  cook  in  the  hot  milk  20  minutes.  Melt  the  chocolate 
over  hot  water;  add  1  tablespoon  hot  water  to  chocolate,  and 
heat  until  it  is  smooth.  Beat  yolk  of  the  egg  and  add  remain- 
ing sugar  to  it,  add  chocolate,  then  add  gradually  the  hot  milk 
and  flour.  Return  to  double  boiler,  and  cook  over  hot  water  for 
5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  when 
cold  add  vanilla.    Use  egg  white  for  boiled  frosting. 

SMALL  CAKES  AND  COOKIES 

Any  cake  batter  may  be  baked  in  muffin  tins  to  make 
small  individual  cakes  to  be  served  as  tea  cakes.  These  will 
require  a  hotter  oven  than  loaf  and  layer  cakes,  and  can  be 
baked  in  a  shorter  time. 

Batters  for  butter  cakes  may  also  be  used  for  drop  cakes 
or  cookies  by  adding  more  flour  to  make  the  batter  the  consis- 
tency of  a  very  soft  dough,  almost  as  soft  as  for  baking  powder 
biscuits.  Cookies  must  be  handled  lightly  and  carefully  and 
cooked  quickly  so  that  they  will  not  dry  out.  They  must  be 
carefully  watched  to  avoid  burning  any  part.  The  time  for 
baking  will  vary  from  10  to  15  minutes  according  to  the  thick- 
ness of  the  cooky. 

If  a  large  amount  of  butter  is  used,  the  cooky  will  be  crisp 
and  tender.  A  smaller  amount  of  butter  and  a  greater  amount 
of  liquid  give  a  softer  cooky.  Cookies  become  softer  with  keep- 
itig,  especially  if  kept  in  a  stone  jar  or  if  a  piece  of  bread  is 
kept  with  them.  If  cookies  are  hard  and  dry,  too  much  flour 
has  been  used. 


253 


Cookies 

1  cup  butter  or  oleo-  3  cups  flour 

margarine  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

2  eggs  j/2  cup  sugar 
J4  cup  milk 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  and  the  well-beaten  eggs. 
Then  add  the  milk  alternately  with  the  flour  (sifted  with  the 
baking  powder).  Mix  to  the  consistency  of  a  soft  dough,  adding 
more  milk  if  necessary.  Roll  lightly,  cut  in  shapes,  and  dip 
in  the  ^2  cup  sugar  and  cinnamon  that  have  been  sifted  to- 
gether. Place  on  buttered  sheets,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
about  10  minutes.  Slip  from  the  pan  and  lay  on  a  cake  cooler: 
To  make  a  softer  cooky,  use  only  j/2  cup  butter  in  the  recipe. 
(3  dozen  to  4  dozen.) 

Peanut    Cookies 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  2  tablespoons  milk 

oleomargarine  ^  cup  finely  chopped 

%.  cup  sugar  peanuts 

1  egg  ^  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  2  doz.  whole  peanuts, 

y%  teaspoon  salt  shelled 
y2  cup  flour 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  and  egg  well-beaten. 
Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  add  to  the  first  mixture,  then 
add  the  milk,  peanuts,  and  lemon  juice.     Drop  from  a  teaspoon 

onto  an  unbuttered  sheet,  an  inch  apart,  and  place  ^^  peanut  on 

top.   Bake  12  to  15  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  (2^^  dozen  to 
3  dozen.) 

Chocolate  Cookies 

2  egg  whites  2  oz.  grated  chocolate 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  cup  baker's  bread  crumbs 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  egg  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar  gradually,  and 


254 


continue  beating.  Mix  grated  chocolate,  cinnamon,  and  bread 
crumbs  together,  add  gradually  to  eggs  and  sugar,  then  add 
vanilla.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon  on  to  thin  wafers.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  20  minutes.  (1^  dozen  to  2  dozen.) 

Ideal  Cookies 

3^  cup  butter  ^  cup  milk 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon  powder 

^  nutmeg,  grated  Flour 
2  egg 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  with  the  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg,  then  add  the  well-beaten  eggs.  Beat  well,  add  milk 
and  1  cup  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder,  and  enough  more 
flour  to  make  a  dough  that  can  be  handled.  Flour  the  hands 
and  shape  bits  of  dough  in  balls,  roll  each  ball  in  granulated 
sugar,  place  on  a  well-greased  pan  some  distance  apart,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.    (3  dozen  to  4  dozen.) 

Bran  Cookies 

Yz  cup  fat  1  cup  white  flour 

1  cup  brown  sugar  5^  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
y^  cup  milk  or  more  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  bran  1  cup  raisins 

1  cup  oatmeal 

Cream  the  fat,  add  the  sugar  and  well-beaten  eggs.  Then 
add  the  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  the  milk.  Keep  the 
batter  thick  enough  to  retain  a  round  shape  on  the  pan  when 
dropped  from  the  spoon.  Add  raisins.  Place  on  well-greased 
sheets  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  12  to  15  minutes.  Makes 
4  dozen. 


255 

Ginger  Cookies 

3/2  cup  butter  1/3  teaspoon  cinnamon 

^  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  molasses  2^  cups  powdered  sugar 
y^  cup  water  34  cup  milk  or  water 

1  quart  flour   ,  (heated) 

2  teaspoons  ginger  3^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter;  add  the  sugar  and  molasses;  sift  the 
ginger,  cinnamon  and  soda  with  the  flour  and  add  alternately 
with  the  water  to  the  butter  and  sugar.  Let  stand  over  night.  In 
the  morning  roll  out  about  ^  of  an  inch  thick  and  spread  on 
the  bottom  of  large  baking  sheets.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven  from  10  to  15  minutes.  While  the  cookies  are  baking, 
make  a  frosting  of  the  powdered  sugar,  hot  milk  and  vanilla. 
Spread  this  on  the  cookies  as  soon  as  they  come  from  the  oven; 
then  cut  in  3  inch  squares  for  serving.    Makes  3  or  4  dozen. 

Oatmeal   Cookies 

^  cup  butter  or  oleo-  ^  teaspoon  salt 

margarine  %  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

2  eggs  2  cups  flour 

j4-  Q^P  sour  milk  or  more  1  %  cups  rolled  oats 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  cup  chopped  raisins 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar,  then  add  well-beaten  eggs. 
Sift  cinnamon,  salt,  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  with  flour,  and 
add  alternately  with  milk,  beat  well,  then  stir  in  rolled  oats 
and  raisins.  The  batter  should  be  stiff  enough  to  retain  its 
shape.  Put  by  the  teaspoonful  on  to  well-greased  pans  some 
distance  apart,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  12  to  15  minutes. 
(2^  dozen  to  3  dozen.) 


256 


Fruit  Cookies 

1  cup  butter  or  oleomargarine      ^  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  cups  sugar  ^  teaspoon  soda 
2  eggs  Flour 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  cup  chopped  raisins 

1  teaspoon  cloves  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

4  teaspoons  cinnamon 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  and  the  well-beaten  eggs. 
Sift  spices  and  soda  with  2  cups  flour,  and  add  alternately 
with  the  milk.  Then  add  the  raisins  and  nuts,  and  enough 
more  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Put  by  the  teaspoonful  on 
well-greased  baking  pans  some  distance  apart,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  12  to  15  minutes.    (3  dozen  to  4  dozen.) 

Ginger  Drop  Cakes 

%.  cup  butter  1  cup  molasses 

^  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  ground  cloves  Salt 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  2^  cups  flour 

1  tablespoon  ginger  1  cup  boiling  water 

2  eggs 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  mixed  with  spices,  then  add 
the  well-beaten  eggs.  Add  molasses,  then  flour  (well-sifted 
with  soda  and  salt)  alternately  with  boiling  water. 

Pour  in  gem  pans  which  have  been  greased  and  well- 
dusted  with  flour. 

Bake  20  to  30  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  (2  dozen.) 

If  desired  the  mixture  may  be  used  for  cookies.  Then 
use  only  a  small  amount  of  water,  keeping  the  batter  stiff 
enough  to  retain  its  shape  and  put  by  the  teaspoonful  on  to 
well-greased  baking  pans  some  distance  apart  and  bake  12  to 
15  minutes. 

Lady  Fingers 

3  egg  whites  Ys  cup  flour 
Yz  cup  powdered  sugar  Salt 

2  egg  yolks  Y  teaspoon  vanilla 


:57 


Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff  and  dry,  add  the 
sugar  gradually,  and  continue  beating,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs 
beaten  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  then  the  vanilla.  Fold  in 
the  flour  which  has  been  sifted  with  the  salt.  Put  the  mixture 
into  a  pastry  bag,  and  shape  4^^  inches  long  and  1  inch  wide, 
on  a  tin  sheet  covered  with  unbuttered  paper.  Sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  and  bake  8  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Re- 
move from  the  paper  with  a  knife.  Brush  halves  with  an  egg- 
white,  slightly  beaten,  and  fasten  together.    (Ij4  dozen) 

The  mixture  may  also  be  baked  in  the  form  of  small  round 
cookies. 

Fondant  Cakes 

Cut  pound  or  gold  cake  in  small  shapes — hearts,  rounds, 
diamonds  and  crescents.  Fasten  cakes  securely  on  a  fork  and 
dip  tops  into  melted  fondant  flavored  and  colored  as  desired. 
Use  trimmings  of  cake  in  Cabinet  Pudding.  (See  uses  for 
white  fondant) 

Marguerites 

1  dozen  wafers  2  oz.  chopped  nuts 

2  egg  whites  (4    tablespoons) 
%  cup  powdered  sugar                   ^  cup  chopped  raisins 

Beat  the  eggs  until  stiff,  add  ^  of  the  sugar  gradually, 
and  continue  beating  until  mixture  holds  its  shape,  then  fold  in 
remainder  of  sugar  and  nuts  and  raisins  chopped  together. 
Spread  on  salt  wafers  and  bake  till  a  delicate  brown,  in  a 
modetrate  oven.    Serves  12. 

Meringues 

4  egg  whites 
15^  cup  powdered  sugar  or  1  cup  fine  granulated  sugar 


teaspoon  vanilla 


Beat  the  egg  whites  with  a  flat  egg  beater  until  stiff  adding 
%   of  the  sugar  gradually,   continuing  the  beating  until   the 


258 


mixture  will  hold  its  shape.  Then  fold  in  the  remaining 
sugar  and  add  the  flavoring.  Shape  in  oval  or  round  forms 
with  a  tablespoon  or  pastry  bag  on  a  wet  board  covered  with 
buttered  paper.  Bake  30  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  Remove 
carefully  from  the  paper.  If  to  be  used  as  cases  in  which  to 
serve  ice  cream  or  other  frozen  dishes,  scrape  out  the  soft  part 
with  a  spoon  and  return  the  case  to  the  oven  to  dry  out.  Re- 
bake  the  soft  portion  to  use  as  garnishing  for  desserts.  12  to 
16  cases. 


CAKE  FROSTINGS 

Cakes  are  frosted  for  the  purpose  of  decoration,  to  add  to 
the  flavor,  and  to  preserve  the  moisture  of  the  cake. 

Frostings  are  both  cooked  and  uncooked.  Uncooked  frost- 
ings  are  made  of  powdered  or  confectioner's  sugar,  combined 
with  water,  milk,  cream,  egg,  or  butter.  Cooked  frostings  are 
made  from  boiled  syrups,  plain  or  combined  with  egg  white  or 
prepared  in  the  form  of  fondant. 

UNCOOKED  FROSTINGS 

Eggf  Frosting 

1  egg  white  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  cup  powdered  sugar 

Put  the  unbeaten  white  of  the  egg  into  a  bowl,  add  the 
sugar  slowly,  beating  with  a  spoon.  When  all  the  sugar  has  been 
added,  stir  in  the  lemon  juice.  For  chocolate  frosting  omit  the 
lemon  juice  and  add  ^  ounce  of  melted  chocolate  and  j/2  tea- 
spoonful  vanilla.     (1  cake.) 

Water  Frosting 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoon  boiling  water  or  milk 

Stir  the  boiling  water  into  the  sugar  and  add  the  lemon 
juice,  if  too  stiff  add  a  little  more  boiling  water.  One-half 
ounce  melted  chocolate  and  }^  teaspoon  vanilla  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  lemon.  (1  cake.) 

Mocha   Frosting 

%  cup  butter  2  squares  chocolate 

iy2  cup  powdered  sugar  (melted). 

1  or  2  teaspoons  cocoa,  or        %  cup  boiled  coffee  (strong) 
Cream  the  butter,   add  a  portion  of  the  powdered  sugar 
gradually,  then  add  the  chocolate  and  coffee.     Continue  adding 

259 


260 


powdered  sugar  until  of  the  consistency  to  spread,  using  more 
chocolate  or  coffee  as  desired  for  flavor  and  color.  (1  cake.) 

Ornamental   Frosting  .  . 

3  egg  whites  3  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

3  cups  confectioners  sugar 

Put  the  eggs  into  a  large  bowl.  Add  1  tablespoon  sugar 
and  beat  5  minutes.  Repeat  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken, 
then  add  the  lemon  juice.  Continue  to  add  sugar  until  the 
frosting  will  not  run  together  when  cut  with  a  knife.  Spread 
a  thin  layer  of  frosting  on  the  cake,  and  when  dry  cover  with  a 
layer  ^  inch  thick.  Add  sugar  more  rapidly  to  the  remainder 
of  the  frosting  until  it  begins  to  harden  on  the  spoon  and  bowl. 
Put  a  confectioner's  tube  into  the  end  of  a  pastry  bag.  Partially 
fill  the  bag  with  frosting,  twist  the  end  slightly,  and  press  the 
frosting  through  in  the  desired  design.     (1  large  cake.) 

Orange  Filling  for  Cake 

1  egg  yolk  2  cups  or  more  powdered 

Yz  orange,  rind  and  juice  sugar 

Salt 

Beat  egg  yolk,  add  orange  juice  and  rind.  Add  a  sprinkle 
of  salt.  Add  enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  a  thick  filling. 
Use  between  layers  of  cake.     (1  cake.) 

Orange   Frosting 

Yz  orange,  rind  and  juice     1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
Powdered  sugar 

Add  enough  powdered  sugar  to  orange  and  lemon  juice 
to  make  a  stiff  icing.  Use  on  top  of  layer  cake  with  orange 
filling  between  the  layers.     (1  cake.) 

COOKED  FROSTINGS 
Boiled  Frosting 

1  cup  sugar  1  egg  white 

Yz  cup  boiling  water 


261 


Boil  sugar  and  water  together  until  the  syrup  threads. 
Pour  gradually  on  well-beaten  white.  Beat  until  it  begins  to 
thicken,  then  spread  on  cake.  (1  cake.) 

Chocolate  Frosting 

To  the  recipe  for  boiled  frosting  add  1  square  chocolate 
which  has  been  grated  and  melted. 

Maple  Frosting 

1  pound  soft  maple  sugar  2  egg  whites 
Yz  cup  boiling  water 

Add  the  water  to  the  sugar  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is 
all  dissolved.  Boil  slowly  without  stirring  until  the  syrup  will 
thread  when  dropped  from  the  tip  of  a  spoon.  Pour  slowly 
over  the  well-beaten  egg-whites,  and  beat  until  thick;  spread 
on  cake.   (1  large  cake.) 

Brown    Sugar    Frosting 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

Yt,  cup  milk 

Boil  all  together  slowly  to  the  soft  ball  stage.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  beat  until  creamy,  spread  quickly  on  cake. 
(1  cake.) 

Caramel  Frosting 

2  cups  sugar  Yz  teaspoon  butter 
Yz  cup  milk  Y^.  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  Y^-  cup  sugar  to  a  caramel.  Boil  remaining  sugar 
with  the  milk,  add  caramel  and  butter  and  boil  slowly  to  the 
soft  ball  stage.  Beat  until  creamy,  add  vanilla,  spread  quickly 
on  cake.    (1  cake.) 


PASTRY 

There  are  three  classes  of  Pastry:  plain,  flaky,  and  puff 
paste. 

Plain  and  flaky  paste  are  used  for  pies  and  tarts;  puff 
paste  is  used  for  meat  pies  and  patties. 

Plain  paste  is  prepared  by  chopping  the  fat  into  the  flour; 
flaky  and  puff  paste  are  prepared  by  adding  most  of  the  fat  in 
layers  between  the  layers  of  dough,  and  combining  them  by 
rolling  and  folding. 

Ingredients  Used  in  Pastry 

Pastry  Flour,  which  takes  up  but  a  small  quantity  of  water 
and  contains  less  gluten  than  bread  flour,  should  be  used  for 
pastry,  as  it  gives  a  more  tender  crust. 

Fat  or  Shortening  is  used  to  make  pastry  tender.  Butter 
gives  the  better  flavor,  lard  makes  a  more  tender  crust  and  one 
of  lighter  color.  Beef  drippings,  suet,  and  many  prepared  com- 
mercial fats  may  be  used.  In  plain  pastry  from  %  to  ^  as 
much  fat  as  flour  by  measure,  is  used.  Fat  should  be  cold 
when  used. 

Baking  Powder.  Pastry  is  made  light  by  the  expansion  of 
cold  air.  Baking  powder  may  be  added  to  increase  this  light- 
ness and  to  make  a  cheaper  paste  as  the  per  cent  of  fat  can 
then  be  reduced.  From  ^  to  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  may 
be  used  to  each  cup  of  flour. 

Salt  is  added  to  give  flavor  to  the  paste. 

Sugar  is  sometimes  used  if  a  sweet  paste  is  desired. 

Water  used  should  be  very  cold  and  just  enough  to  hold 
ingredients  together,  as  the  presence  of  very  much  water  makes 
the  pastry  tough. 


262 


263 


Utensils    Used  When    Making    Pastry 

A  smooth,  perfectly  clean  bread  board  is  essential.  A 
marble  or  metal  board  is  sometimes  used  because  it  can  be  kept 
very  cold. 

A  smooth  rolling  pin  that  can  be  kept  clean  is  desirable. 
Glass  or  china  rolling  pins  are  considered  good  because  they  can 
be  kept  very  cold. 

Pie  tins  should  be  kept  in  good  condition.  Granite  or 
aluminum  are  best,  especially  for  fruit  pies.  Perforated  tins  are 
considered  good  for  baking  under  crust  thoroughly. 

Requisites  in  Making  Pastry 

Keep  paste  cold,  as  it  is  considered  essential  that  fat  does 
not  begin  to  melt  until  baking  begins,  the  cold  air  will  cause 
the  paste  to  expand  more  in  baking,  and  cold  paste  is  easier  to 
handle. 

Handle  quickly  and  lightly  so  that  the  gluten  is  not  de- 
veloped in  the  flour. 

Handle  deftly  so  that  there  will  be  but  little  waste,  and  the 
board,  the  pin,  and  the  person  may  be  kept  neat. 

General  Rules  for  Making  Pastry 

Sift  all  dry  ingredients  together.  Chop  in  cold  fat  with  a 
knife.  Do  not  touch  with  hands.  Do  not  chop  fat  very  fine  if  a 
flaky  crust  is  desired. 

Add  cold  water  very  carefully,  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  and 
only  enough  to  hold  the  dough  together. 

Toss  on  a  floured  board  with  a  knife  so  that  the  entire 
surface  is  slightly  floured.  Handle  only  the  quantity  that  is  to 
be  used  for  one  crust  at  a  time. 

Roll  lightly  and  quickly,  in  one  direction  only,  and  on 
one  side  only. 

Roll  thin  and  as  nearly  the  shape  of  the  pan  as  possible. 


264 


Fold  and  lift  the  paste  carefully  to  the  pie  plate,  and  trim  one- 
fpurth  inch  larger  than  plate. 

,  ,  ;  Work  scraps  together  lightly,  keep  them  covered  with  a 
moist  cloth,  and  very  cold;  they  may  be  used  another  day.  All 
pastry  rolls  more  easily  after  chilling. 

,    Left-over  pastry  may  be  used  for  cheese  straws  and  tarts. 

Plain  paste  for  a  one-crust  pie  may  be  baked  on  the  out- 
side of  the  pie  tin,  and  carefully  pierced  with  a  fork  before 
baking  so  that  bubbles  will  not  spoil  the  shape. 

Meat,  oyster  pies,  and  pies  made  with  fresh  fruit  are  best 
made  without  an  under  crust.  They  should  be  baked  in  an 
earthen  or  granite  dish. 

The  upper  crust  should  always  be  perforated  to  allow  the 
escape  of  steam. 

If  the  upper  crust  is  brushed  with  beaten  egg  before  bak- 
ing it  will  brown  better,  and  have  a  shiny  appearance. 

If  the  pie  is  a  juicy  fruit  pie  it  is  well  to  brush  the  under 
crust  vidth  beaten  white  of  egg  to  prevent  the  juice  making  the 
crust  soft. 

The  lower  crust  should  always  be  moistened  around  the 
edge  with  cold  water,  the  upper  crust  placed  over  it,  and  the 
two  pressed  tightly  together. 

A  half-inch  strip  of  paste  may  be  placed  around  the  edge 
of  the  under  crust  in  order  to  hold  the  two  more  firmly  together. 
This  must  be  moistened  with  cold  water  before  the  upper  crust 
is  added.  A  strip  of  muslin  wet  in  cold  water  may  be  placed 
around  the  edge  of  the  fruit  pie  if  the  fruit  is  very  juicy. 

Baking 

Pastry  should  be  cooked  in  a  hot  oven  35  to  50  minutes. 
After  pastry  has  been  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes,  the  heat 

After  pastry  has  been  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes,  the  heat 
should  be  decreased. 

During  the  first  five  minutes  in  the  oven  pastry  should 
rise  and  after  it  has  risen  it  should  begin  to  brown. 


265 


If  the  oven  is  not  hot  enough  at  first  the  fat  may  be 
melted,  the  pastry  will  not  begin  to  cook,  and  the  texture  will  be 
spoiled. 

Good  pastry  should  be  light,  tender,  flaky  and  thoroughly 
baked. 

Plain  Paste 

1 34  cups  pastry  flour  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder        ^  cup  lard  or  other  fat 
(if  used)  Cold  water 

Enough  for  one^ crust.    Double  for  a  two-crust  pie. 
Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder,   and  salt  together.     Chop 
the  cold  fat  in  with  a  knife.   Add  enough  cold  water  to  make  a 
stiff  dough.   Roll  out  lightly  and  quickly.     Follow  general  rules 
for  making  pastry. 

Flaky  Paste 

1  pound  flour  ^  pound  butter  or  butter 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  and  lard 

1  cup  cold  water 

Sift  the  flour  and  salt,  add  Y^  of  the  butter,  and  chop  it  in 
well.  Add  just  enough  of  the  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  and 
knead  until  smooth. 

Divide  the  remaining  fat  in  three  portions.  Roll  the  paste 
half  an  inch  thick.  Spread  one  portion  of  the  butter  on  it, 
dredge  lightly  with  flour,  fold  in  three  layers,  roll  out,  fold  and 
roll  again.  Spread  on  another  portion  of  the  butter,  fold,  and 
continue  until  all  the  butter  is  used,  rolling  and  folding  six 
times  in  all.   Bake  in  a  hot  oven.    (4  crusts.) 

Apple  Pie 

1  double  recipe  plain  paste        1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
4  or  5  sour  apples  1  tablespoon  butter 

Yz  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  water  (if  apples 

34  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg  are  not  juicy) 

Wipej  quarter,  pare,  and  core  apples,  and  cut  into  eighths. 


266 


Line  a  pie  tin  with  plain  paste,  fill  with  apples,  heaping 
them  with  sugar,  nutmeg,  and  lemon  juice,  and  dot  with  bits  of 
butter,  add  water,  cover  with  an  upper  crust,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  until  apples  are  soft  and  crust  is  brown.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Peach  Pie 

Prepare  as  apple  pie,  using  fresh  or  canned  peaches. 

Rhubarb  Pie 

Prepare  as  apple  pie  using  1  pint  rhubarb,  1  cup  sugar. 

Lemon  Pie 

1  recipe  plain  paste  1^  lemons,  juice  and  rind 
y^  cup  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

iy2  cups  sugar  4  tablespoons  powdered 

1^  cups  boiling  water  sugar 

2  eggs 

Mix  the  sugar  and  flour  together.  Add  the  boiling  water 
slowly.  Cook  20  minutes,  stirring  frequently.  Separate  the 
eggs.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  until  light.  Add  the  cooked  mix- 
ture to  the  egg,  add  butter,  and  lemon  juice  and  rind,  and 
cook  until  the  egg  thickens  over  hot  water.  When  mixture  is 
€Ool,  turn  into  a  baked  crust.  Cover  with  a  meringue  (made  by 
beating  the  whites  of  eggs  very  light  and  adding  the  powdered 
sugar  slowly),  and  bake  until  a  delicate  brown.  Serves  6  to  8. 

Cream  Pie 

1  recipe  plain  paste  ^  cup  sugar 

^  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  milk  1  ^^  teaspoons  butter 

3  eggs  6  tablespoons  powdered 
y^  teaspoon  salt  sugar 

Moisten  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  add  this  to 
the  remainder  of  the  milk  which  has  been  scalded.  Cook  15 
minutes  in  a  double  boiler.  Separate  the  eggs,  beat  the  yolks, 
sugar   and   salt   together.      Add   to   them   the   hot   liquid,    and 


267 


butter,  return  to  the  double  boiler,  and  cook  until  thickened, 
stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add  the  flavoring, 
and  turn  into  a  baked  crust.  Cover  with  a  meringue  made  of 
the  egg  whites  and  powdered  sugar.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  a  few 
minutes  to  brown.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Banana   Pie 

Follow  the  recipe  for  cream  pie  and  line  the  baked  crust 
with  one  or  two  sliced  bananas  before  putting  in  the  cream 
filling.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Custard  Pie 

1  recipe  plain  paste  %  teaspoon  salt 

3  eggs  1  j4  cups  milk 

4  tablespoons  sugar  Few  gratings  nutmeg 
Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  add  the  sugar,  salt,  and  milk.    Line 

a  pan  with  plain  paste,  build  up  a  fluted  rim.  Strain  in  the 
mixture  and  sprinkle  with  nutmeg. 

Bake  in  a  quick  oven  at  first,  decrease  heat  and  cook  30 
minutes.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Butter  Scotch  Pie 

1  recipe  plain  paste  2  eggs 

6  tablespoons  flour  4  tablespoons  butter 

^  cup  brown  sugar  4  tablespoons  powdered 
y2  teaspoon  salt  sugar 

2  cups  milk 

Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  ^  cup  sugar.  Add  the  milk 
which  has  been  scalded,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  15  minutes. 
Caramelize  j/4  cup  brown  sugar  and  add  to  it  %  cup  water. 
Boil  till  the  caramel  is  dissolved.  Separate  the  eggs,  beat  the 
yolks,  and  add  the  cooked  flour  mixture.  Add  the  butter  and 
caramel.  Return  to  the  double  boiler  and  cook  till  the  eggs  are 
thickened,  stirring  constantly.  Then  turn  into  a  baked  crust, 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  egg  whites  and  powdered 
sugar.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown.  Serves  6  to  8. 


268 


Chocolate  Pie 

1  recipe  plain  paste  ^  teaspoon  salt 
.  ^  cup  flour  3  eggs 

2  cups  milk  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

4  tablespoons  grated  Speck  of  cinnamon 

chocolate  6  tablespoons  powdered 

%  cup  sugar  sugar 

Mix  the  flour  with  one  cup  of  cold  milk,  add  slowly  to  the 
remainder  of  the  milk,  which  has  been  scalded,  and  cook  20 
minutes.  Melt  the  chocolate,  add  half  the  sugar,  and  add  to 
the  flour  and  milk.  Add  remaining  sugar  and  salt  to  the  well- 
beaten  egg  yolks.  Then  pour  the  cooked  mixture  over  the  eggs, 
return  to  the  double  boiler  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 

Pour  into  a  baked  crust.  Cover  with  a  meringue  made  of 
the  egg  whites  and  powdered  sugar,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 
Serve  cold.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Pumpkin  or  Squash  Pie 

1  recipe  plain  paste  %.  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  ^  cups  steamed  and  ^  teaspoon  nutmeg 

strained  pumpkin  or  ^  teaspoon  salt 

squash  2  eggs 

y2  cup  sugar  1^  cup  milk 

54  teaspoon  ginger 
Line  a  pie  plate  with  plain  paste. 

Combine  the  other  ingredients  in  the  order  given,  add  the 
eggs  well  beaten.  Pour  into  the  lined  pie  plate  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  35  to  40  minutes.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie 

1  recipe  plain  paste  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  cups  sweet  potatoes  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
1  Yz  cups  milk  y2  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  lemon,  juice 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs  or  more 

Scald  the  milk,    add  to   the   mashed   potatoes.      Add   the 


269 


butter,  sugar,  spices,  and  well-beaten  eggs.  Cook  as  a  soft  cus- 
tard until  slightly  thickened.  Then  pour  into  a  baked  crust 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  firm.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Rhubarb  and  Raisin  Pie 

1  double  recipe  plain  paste  1  lemon,  juice  and  rind 

1  cup  raisins  1  egg 

1  cup  fresh  rhubarb  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  sugar 
Stone  the  raisins  and  chop  raisins  and  rhubarb  till  very 
fine.    Add  sugar,  lemon  jui.^e.  and  rind,  then  well-beaten  egg, 
and  butter. 

Bake  in  two  crusts  in  a  moderate  oven  45  minutes.  Serves 
6  to  8. 

Cranberry   and  Raisin  Pie 

Substitute  1^  cups  fresh  cranberries  and  ^4  cup  water  for 
rhubarb  in  the  recipe  for  rhubarb  and  raisin  pie. 

Meat  Pie 

Fill  a  baking  dish  with  any  meat  which  has  been  prepared 
as  a  well-seasoned  stew,  cover  with  grav}',  and  over  the  top 
put  a  covering  of  plain  or  flaky  pastry  in  which  several  in- 
cisions have  been  made.  Around  the  edge  fit  a  rim,  scallop 
neatly,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  35  to  40  minutes,  till 
crust  is  well-puffed,  and  bro\^^l.  Meat  pie  may  also  be  made 
mth  biscuit  crust. 

Tarts 

Prepare  plain  or  flaky  pastr}'  using  from  2  to  3  cups  flour. 
Line  muffin  tins  wdth  pastr\\  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  30  min- 
utes.   Fill  with  gooseberry  jam,  currant  jelly  or  other  preserve. 


270 


Hickory  Nut  Tarts 

2  or  3  recipes  plain  paste  1  cup  hickory  nut  meats, 

3  eggs  chopped 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  stoned  raisins,  chopped 

2  tablespoons  cream  4  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 
1  tablespoon  lemon  extract 

Separate  the  eggs,  beat  yolks  with  one  white,  add  the 
other  ingredients  in  order  given.  Line  muffin  tins  with  pastry, 
partially  fill  with  hickory  nut  preparation,  and  bake  half  an 
hour.  Then  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  2  egg  whites  and 
the  powdered  sugar.  Return  to  the  oven  to  brown  the  meringue. 
Serves  20  to  24. 

Cream  Puffs 

1  cup  hot  water  1  Yz  cups  pastry  flour 
Yz  cup  buttei  5  eggs 

Heat  the  butter  and  water  until  the  water  boils.  Add  the 
flour  all  at  once  and  mix  thoroughly.  Cook  until  it  forms  a 
ball,  and  whep  cool  add  the  eggs  unbeaten  and  one  at  a  time. 
Beat  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Drop  by  tablespoonful  on  but- 
tered baking  sheets,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  25  to  30  minutes. 
When  cold  make  an  opening  with  a  round  pastry  tube,  and 
fill  with  cream.     Serves  1*6  to  20. 

Cream  Filling 

^/t,  cup  flour  y^  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  eggs  1  Yz  teaspoon  butter 
Yi  cup  sugar 

Moisten  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk,  scald  the  re- 
mainder of  the  milk,  and  add  the  flour  mixture  slowly.  Cook  15 
minutes  in  a  double  boiler,  beat  the  eggs,  sugar  and  salt  to- 
gether. Add  to  them  the  hot  liquid  and  butter,  return  to  the 
double  boiler,  and  cook  until  the  egg  thickens,  stirring  con- 
stantly.  Remove  from  the  fire;  when  cool  add  flavoring. 


271 


Chocolate  Eclairs 

Prepare  cream  puff  recipe,  shape  in  long  narrow  puffs. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  25  to  30  miuntes  then  glaze  with  chocolate 
frosting.   Serves  12  to  18. 

Chocolate  Frosting   for  Eclairs 

^  square  chocolate  ^  teaspoon  butter 

3/2  cup  cream  or  milk  Confectioner's  sugar 

Salt  Yo  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  egg  yolk 

Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water;  add  the  cream  or  milk 
gradually;  beat  the  egg  and  salt;  add  the  hot  milk  and  butter 
gradually.  Cook  till  thickened,  then  remove  from  the  fire,  and 
add  sugar  until  of  consistency  to  spread;  then  add  the  flavoring. 

Doughnuts 

1  pint  flour  1  egg 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder        ^  to  ^  cup  milk 
y^  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  butter 

Yz  cup  sugar 
Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  ^  cup  milk  to  the 
well-beaten  egg,  then  add  to  the  dry  ingredients,  adding  enough 
more  milk  to  make  the  dough  just  soft  enough  to  handle;  add 
the  melted  butter.  Take  a  small  portion  at  a  time,  knead  until 
smooth,  then  roll  out  Yz  inch  thick.  Cut  with  a  ring  cutter; 
put  scraps  with  another  portion,  and  roll  again.  When  all  are 
rolled  fry  in  deep  fat;  turn  when  brown;  when  done  drain  on 
paper.    Serves  20  to  24. (See  directions  for  cooking  in  deep  fat). 

Raised   Doughnuts 

1  cup  milk  Y^  cup  butter  and  lard 
^  to  1  cake  yeast  1  cup  brown  sugar 

Y\  cup  lukewarm  water  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  ^  grated  nutmeg 

Flour 
Scald  the  milk.    Cool,  and  when  lukewarm  add  the  yeast 


272 


cake,  softened  in  the  lukewarm  water.  Add  the  salt  and  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  add 
the  softened  butter,  the  sugar,  eggs,  and  nutmeg;  add  enough 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  well.  Let  rise  again,  then 
turn  onto  a  board,  roll  three-fourths  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  bis- 
cuit cutter  and  shape  with  hands  until  round.  Leave  on  board 
to  rise;  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Serves  20 
to  24.  (See  directions  for  cooking  in  deep  fat.) 


DESSERTS 

Corn  Starch  Pudding 

34  cup  sugar  4  cups  milk 

5  tablespoons  corn  starch  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Add  sugar  to  the  corn  starch  and  mix  with  1  cup  milk. 
Scald  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  add  the  corn  starch  mixture 
and  stir  until  thickened,  then  cook  for  20  minutes  over  hot 
water.  Remove  from  the  fire,  strain,  cool,  and  add  the  vanilla. 
One  or  two  well-beaten  eggs  may  be  added  just  before  the 
pudding  has  finished  cooking.  Chill  before  serving.  Serves  8- 
to  10. 

Chocolate  Corn   Starch  Pudding 

^  cup  sugar  1  quart  milk 

5  tablespoons  corn  starch  2  squares  Baker's  chocolate 

Add  the  sugar  to  the  corn  starch.  Mix  with  1  cup  cold 
milk.  Scald  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and  add  the  corn  starch 
mixture.  Stir  until  thickened.  Then  cook  20  minutes  over  hot 
water.  Melt  the  chocolate,  add  to  the  thickened  milk.  Pour  into 
a  pudding  dish.    Chill.    Serves  8  to  10. 

Caramel  Corn  Starch  Pudding 

2  cups  brown  sugar  3  cups  milk 

1  boiling  w^ater  1  egg 

5  tablespoons  corn  starch 

Heat  the  sugar  until  it  becomes  a  light  brown  liquid. 
Add  one  cup  boiling  water  slowly  and  stir  until  sugar  is  all 
dissolved.  Add  one  cup  cold  milk  slowly  to  the  corn  starch 
and  stir  until  smooth.  Heat  remainder  of  the  milk,  add  com 
starch,  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Add  prepared  cara- 
mel and  continue  cooking  over  hot  water  20  minutes. 
Beat  egg  well,  add  hot  pudding,  strain,  and  cool. 

273 


274 


Serve  cold  in  glasses  with  plain  or  whipped  cream.  Serves 
8  to  10. 

Note — One-quarter  pound  almonds,  blanched  and 
chopped,  and  added  just  before  serving,  make  the  pudding 
more  attractive. 

Velvet  Pudding 

1  Yz  cups  milk,  scalded  ^  cup  cold  milk 
Yz  cup  flour  1  egg 

3/2  teaspoon  salt  Yi  teaspoon  vanilla 
Yd,  cup  sugar 

Mix  the  salt,  sugar,  and  flour  with  the  cold  milk.  Pour 
the  mixture  slowly  into  the  hot  milk  and  stir  3  or  4  minutes. 
Then  cover  and  cook  over  hot  water  20  minutes.  Pour  over 
the  well-beaten  yolk  of  egg,  cook  a  few  minutes  longer,  then  add 
well-beaten  white  of  egg  and  vanilla.  Cool  before  serving. 
Serve  with  cream.    Serves  6  or  8. 

Orange   Pudding 

Prepare  velvet  pudding,  using  2  eggs.  Reserve  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  for  a  meringue,  adding  four  tablespoons  of  powdered 
sugar  to  them.  Slice  three  or  four  oranges  into  a  pudding  dish, 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  cover  with  the  cooked  pud- 
ding.  Put  the  meringue  on  top.   Serves  8  to  10. 

Scalloped   Apples 

3  cups  chopped  apples  2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs 

Y2  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter,  melted 

Ya  teaspoon  cinnamon  ^  lemon,  juice  and  rind 

J4  teaspoon  nutmeg  Ya  cup  water 

Add  sugar,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  lemon  rind  to  chopped 
apple.     Add  crumbs  to  melted  butter. 

Line  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  Ya  ^^ 
crumbs,  then  add  ^  the  apples.     Add  Ya  more  crumbs  and 


275 


the  remainder  of  the  apples,  lemon  juice,   and  water.      Cover 
with  buttered  crumbs. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  IV2  hours.  Cover  first  hour. 
Serves  6  to  8. 

Scalloped  Rhubarb 

Follow  the  recipe  for  scalloped  apple  substituting  3  cups 
sliced  rhubarb  for  the  apple  and  adding  i/^   cup  more  sugar. 

Chocolate  Bread  Pudding 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  ^  teaspoon  salt 

4  cups  scalded  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  squares  Baker's  chocolate  6  tablespoons  powdered 
Yz  cup  granulated  sugar  sugar 

3  eggs 

Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  hot  milk  30  minutes;  melt  the 
chocolate  in  a  saucepan  placed  over  hot  water.  Add  one-half 
of  the  sugar  and  enough  milk  to  make  of  consistency  to  pour. 
Add  the  mixture  to  the  remaining  sugar,  salt,  vanilla,  and 
yolks  of  eggs,  slightly  beaten;  turn  into  buttered  pudding  dish, 
and  bake  ^  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

Remove  from  the  oven  fifteen  minutes  before  serving  and 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  by  beating  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
very  light  and  adding  the  powdered  sugar.  Return  to  the  oven 
to  brown  slowdy.  The  meringue  may  be  omitted  and  only  two 
eggs  used.  These  should  be  beaten  without  separating  and  com- 
bined with  the  mixture  before  cooking.    Serves  8  to  10. 

Bread  Pudding 

Use  the  recipe  for  chocolate  bread  pudding  omitting 
chocolate,  and  using  only  ^  cup  sugar.  Add  nutmeg  or  cinna- 
mon, or  -/z  cup  seeded  raisins,  or  currants,  if  desired. 

Queen    of    Puddings 

Use  the  recipe  for  chocolate  bread  pudding,  omitting  the 
chocolate,  and  adding  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  and  1^  table- 


276 

spoons   lemon   juice.      Spread   with   jam   or   jelly   just   before 
putting  on  the  meringue. 

Cabinet   Pudding 

1  quart  broken  stale  cake  ^  cup  raisins 

or  bread  Sugar 

3  whole  eggs  or  6  yolks  1  pint  milk 

)4  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  egg  and  salt  till  very  light,  add  the  milk  and  2 
teaspoonfuls  sugar  if  cake  is  used,  Y^  cup  sugar  if  bread  is 
used;  add  the  vanilla.  Grease  a  pudding  mould,  sprinkle  the 
bottom  with  raisins,  then  add  a  layer  of  cake  or  bread,  and 
repeat  in  layers  until  all  are  used. 

Pour  the  milk  and  egg  over  it.    Let  stand  15  minutes. 
Steam  1^2  hours  or  bake  in  a  slow  oven  one  hour.     Serve 
with  cream  or  a  hot  sauce.     Serves  10  to  12. 

Prune  Souffle 

y^  pound  prunes  1  cup  sugar 

6  egg  whites  Yz  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Pick  over  and  wash  the  prunes.  Soak  several  hours  in 
cold  water  to  cover.  Cook  slowly  in  same  water  till  tender. 
Remove  stones  and  chop  prunes  very  fine. 

Beat  the  egg  whites  stiff,  add  the  sugar,  then  add  the 
chopped  prunes,  and  lemon  juice  carefully.  Pile  lightly  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  20  to  30 
minutes.  Serve  hot  with  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  a 
little  vanilla,  or  serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Stewed  apricots,  peaches,  rhubarb,  strawberries,  or  other 
fruit  may  be  substituted  for  prunes.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Apple  Snow 

2  apples  1  tablespoon  powdered 
Yi  tablespoon  lemon  juice  sugar 

1  egg  white 


277 


Cut  2  small  apples  into  quarters  and  remove  the  cores,  cook 
with  a  small  amount  of  water  until  very  soft,  then  drain  and 
run  though  a  fine  sieve.  Beat  the  white  of  the  egg,  add  the 
sugar  gradually,  and  slowly  beat  in  the  strained  apple.  Serve 
with  cream.     Serves  4  to  6. 

Banana   Snow 

3  bananas  1  egg  white 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  ^  cup  whipping  cream 
^  cup  powdered  sugar 

Peel  bananas,  scrape  surface  carefully  to  remove  cellulose, 
and  cut  in  small  pieces;  add  lemon  juice  and  powdered  sugar. 
Let  stand  ^  hour  in  a  cool  place  and  then  mash  with  a  wooden 
spoon.  Add  white  of  egg  unbeaten  and  beat  until  light  and 
fluffy.    Fold  in  the  whipped  cream.     Serve  cold.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Apricot   Whip 

1  cup  stewed  apricots  2  egg  whites 

y^  cup  sugar 

Beat  egg  whites  very  light,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  add 
the  apricots  which  have  been  stewed  until  very  tender.  Beat 
thoroughly,  then  chill  for  serving.    Serves  8  to  10. 

Puff  Pudding 

2  tablespoons  butter  4  eggs 

3  tablespoons  flour  4  tablespoons  sugar 
1  cup  milk                                   ^  teaspoon  salt 

Prepare  a  white  sauce  with  the  butter,  flour,  and  milk. 
Separate  the  eggs,  beat  the  yolks  well,  add  the  sugar,  salt  and 
hot  white  sauce.  When  cool,  cut  and  fold  in  the  well-beaten 
whites,  turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  bake  slowly  25 
to  30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  a  fruit  sauce. 
Serves  6. 


278 


Prune  Tapioca 

Yz  pound  stewed  prunes  3  cups  boiling  water 

(15^  cups)  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  tapioca  ^  cup  sugar 

3  cups  cold  water  1  lemon,  juice 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  cold  water  1  hour.  Drain.  Add  the 
boiling  water,  salt,  and  sugar,  and  cook  in  double  boiler  till 
tapioca  is  transparent.     Add  the  lemon  juice. 

Stone  the  prunes  and  cut  in  halves,  arrange  on  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  pour  the  tapioca  over  them,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  30  minutes.  Serve  hot  or  cold  with  cream  or  custard  sauce. 
Serves  8  to  10. 

Apricot  Tapioca 

Substitute  stewed  dried  apricots  for  prunes  in  the  recipe  for 
prune  tapioca. 

Apple  Tapioca 

Substitute  3  cups  sliced  apple  for  prunes  in  the  recipe  for 
prune  tapioca. 

Lemon   Tapioca 

Omit  prunes  from  the  recipe  for  prune  tapioca  and  use 
juice  of  3  lemons,  and  1  cup  sugar.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dis- 
solved.   Chill. 

Pineapple  Tapioca 

Substitute  1}4  cups  shredded  pineapple  for  prunes  in  the 
recipe  for  prune  tapioca.    Stir  until  well  combined.    Chill. 

Tapioca    and   Corn    Meal    Pudding 

1  quart  boiling  water  ^  cup  molasses 

Yz  cup  corn  meal  ^  cup  raisins 
1  cup  cold  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  tapioca  1  teaspoon  ginger 

1  cup  cold  water  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

34  cup  butter  2  eggs 

Yz  cup  sugar 


279 


Mix  cold  milk  with  the  corn  meal,  add  the  boiling  water, 
put  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  y^  hour.  Then  add  the  tapioca 
which  has  been  softened  in  the  cold  water,  the  butter,  sugar, 
molasses,  raisins,  salt,  and  spices.  Beat  eggs  well,  add  the  corn 
meal  mixture,  and  pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  one  to  one  and  one-half  hours.  Serve  with 
hard  sauce  or  vanilla.     Serves  10  to  12. 

Tapioca    Cream 

See  custards. 

Strawberry   Short  Cake 

2  cups  flour  Yi  cup  milk 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder         1  egg 
y^  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  whipped  cream 

1  tablespoon  sugar  2  quarts  sweetened   straw- 

4  tablespoons  butter  or  berries 

other   fat 

Mix  and  sift  all  the  dry  ingredients  and  chop  butter  in 
well.  Add  y^  cup  milk  to  the  well-beaten  egg  and  pour  slowly 
into  the  first  mixture,  using  as  much  more  milk  as  is  required 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  on  a  board  that  is  slightly 
floured.  Cut  in  individual  rounds,  brush  with  milk  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  12  to  15  minutes.  Split,  butter,  fill,  and  cover 
with  the  sweetened  crushed  berries.  Garnish  the  top  with 
whole  berries  and  whipped  cream.    Serves  8  to  10. 

Fruit    Short    Cake 

Other  fresh  or  canned  fruits  may  be  substituted  for 
strawberries  in  recipe  for  strawberry  shortcake. 

Baked   Apple    Pudding 

4  or  5  large  apples  1  teaspoon  salt 

yz  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  flour  y^  cup  milk 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Fill    a   granite    pie    dish    with    apples    pared    and    sliced. 


280 


sprinkle  with  the  sugar  and  bake  them  20  minutes. 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  chop  the  butter  in  finely, 
and  add  the  milk  gradually  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Cover  the 
baked  apples  with  the  dough  rolled  ^  inch  thick  and  bake  20 
minutes  longer.  Serve  with  hard  sauce,  creamy  sauce,  or  cream. 
Serves  6. 

Apple    Dumplings 

Use  the  recipe  for  baking-powder  biscuits,  roll  ^2  inch 
thick  and  cut  in  squares.  Place  an  apple,  cored  and  pared,  in 
the  center  of  each  square.  ,  Fold  the  dough  over  the  apples,  and 
steam  ^  hour  or  until  the  apples  are  soft.  Brown  in  the  oven 
after  steaming  if  desired.  This  quantity  makes  6  small  dump- 
lings.    Serves  6. 

Cottage  Puddling 

%.  cup  butter  or  other  fat  2^4  cups  flour 

Yz  cup  sugar  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  egg  1^  teaspoons  salt 

1  cup  milk 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  add  well- 
beaten  egg.  Add  milk  and  flour  (with  which  baking  powder  and 
salt  have  been  sifted) alternately;  turn  into  a  buttered  cake  pan 
and  bake  35  minutes. 

Serve  with  orange,  vanilla,  or  lemon  sauce.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Cottage  Fruit   Pudding 

2  cups  fresh  fruit  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  ^  cup  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking 

1  egg  powder 

lA  cup  milk 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  baking  pan  with  fresh  fruit, 
sweetened.  Cover  with  the  other  ingredients  prepared  as  a  cake 
batter.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  ^  hour.  Serve  with  a  hard  sauce 
mixed  with  mashed  fruit.     Serves  8  to  10. 


281 


Indian    Pudding 

1  cup  corn  meal  V2  cup  raisins 

1  cup  cold  milk  or  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  boiling  water  1  teaspoon  ginger 

^  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

5^2  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

Yz  cup  molasses 

Mix  the  cold  milk  with  the  corn  meal,  add  boiling  water, 
and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  ^  hour.  Then  add  butter,  sugar, 
molasses,  raisins,  salt  and  spices.  Beat  eggs  well,  add  the  corn 
meal  mixture  and  pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  one  to  1^  hours.  Serve  with  hard  sauce  or 
vanilla  sauce.     Serves  10  to  12. 

Date   Pudding 

1  cup  chopped  dates  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  2  whole  eggs 

Mix  the  nuts  and  dates.  Add  the  sugar,  flour,  and  baking 
powder  that  have  been  well  mixed  together.  Add  slowly  to  the 
well-beaten  eggs.  Bake  ^  Hour  in  an  earthen  dish  set  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water.    Serve  with  cream.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Steamed  Mixtures 

Use  a  mould  or  tightly-covered  tin  to  hold  mixtures  for 
steaming.  The  mould  should  be  well-greased ;  if  without  a  cover 
a  piece  of  greased  brown  paper  may  be  tied  over  the  top.  The 
mixture  should  be  poured  into  the  mould,  covered,  and  put  into 
a  steamer  over  boiling  water,  or  on  a  rack  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water.  Keep  the  water  boiling  all  the  time  the  mixture  is  cook- 
ing. The  tirne  for  cooking  will  vary  with  the  size  of  the  mould 
and  the  nature  of  the  mixture (1  to  6  hours.) 

To  Prepare  Raisins 

Prepare  raisins  for  puddings  by  pouring  boiling  water  over 


282 


them;  then  drain,  dry,  and  stone  them.  If  used  for  cake,  they 
should  be  washed  in  cold  water  and  dried  on  a  towel,  stoned 
and  chopped  or  torn  into  pieces.  Seedless  or  stoned  raisins 
should  be  washed  in  cold  water,  picked  over  carefully,  and 
dried  on  a  towel. 

To  Prepare  Dried  Currants 
Clean  currants  by  placing  them  in  a  colander  and  shaking 
flour  over  them,  then  rub  them  carefully  in  the  flour,  put  the 
colander  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  rinse  them,  changing 
water  until  it  is  clear,  showing  that  the  fruit  is  clean.  Then 
dry  the  fruit  in  a  very  cool  oven  or  in  the  sun. 

To    Prepare    Suet    for    Batters 

Pick  suet  over  carefully,  removing  membranes.    Sprinkle 
with  flour  and  chop  fine. 

Steamed  Fruit  Pudding  (With  Suet) 

1  pint  flour  %  cup  milk,  if  sugar  is  used 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder       3^  cup  milk,  if  molasses  is 
%  teaspoon  salt  used 

^  teaspoon  nutmeg  ^  cup  currants 

%.  cup  sugar  or  molasses  ^  cup  raisins 

^  cup  beef  suet  (finely 
chopped) 
Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  others  in  the 
order  given.    Put  into  a  greased  mould,  and  cover.     Steam  1^ 
hours  if  in  small  moulds,  2^  hours  if  in  large  mould.   Serves  8. 

Steamed   Fruit   Pudding  (With   Pork) 

2  cups  flour  ^  cup  salt  pork  (chopped 

1  ^  teaspoons  soda  fine) 

^  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  cup  molasses 

^  teaspoon  ginger  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  cup  raisins 
Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.    Add  the  remaining  in- 
gredients in  the  order  given.    Pour  into  a  well-greased  mould. 


283 


Cover  and  steam  3  to  4  hours.     Serve  with  a  hard  sauce  or 
creamy  sauce.     Serves  8  to  10. 

-s 
Graham    Pudding 

2  cups  graham  flour  1  cup  molasses 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon  1  cup  milk 

Yz  a  nutmeg  1  tablespoon    butter  (melted) 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  cup  raisins,  stoned 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  remaining  in- 
gredients in  the  order  given.  Pour  into  a  buttered  mould.  Cover 
and  steam  3  hours.    Serve  with  egg  sauce.     Serves  8. 

Snow^  Balls 

3  eggs  1  cup  sifted  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1  ^2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
3  tablespoons  water  3  tablespoons  powdered 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  sugar 
Grated  rind  1  lemon 

Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  very  light,  add  the  sugar,  water, 
lemon  rind  and  juice.  Then  add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs 
and  the  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted  together.  Fold  together 
carefully  until  well  combined,  then  pour  into  well-buttered 
earthen  cups  and  steam  i^  hour. 

Sift  the  powdered  sugar  onto  a  plate.  Roll  the  steamed 
puddings  in  the  sugar  and  serve  hot  with  a  hot  lemon  sauce. 
Serves  8  to  10. 

Blackberry  Pudding 

Yz  cup  butter  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yz  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  1  cup  cold  water 
2  cups  flour  1  cup  blackberries 
Combine  as  butter  cake. 

Add  the  berries  as  it  is  turned  into  a  buttered  mould. 
Steam  in  a  covered  mould  1^^  hours  or  bake  25  minutes. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce  made  b}'  adding  ^  cup  crushed  fruit  to 


284 


the  recipe  for  hard  sauce  (^  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  y^  cup 
crushed  and  sifted  berries).     Serves  8  to  10. 

Steamed  Cranberry  Pudding 

34  cup  butter  1  ^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yz  cup  sugar  2^3  cup  milk 

2  eggs  1  Yz  cups  cranberries 

2  cups  flour 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then  add  the 
well-beaten  eggs.  Mix  and  sift  flour  and  baking  powder  and  add 
alternately  with  the  milk.  Stir  in  berries  (which  have  been 
washed),  turn  into  a  buttered  mould,  cover  and  steam  3  hours. 
Serve  with  cream.   Serves  8  to  10. 

DESSERTS  PREPARED  WITH  GELATINE 

Use  \y2  tablespoons  gelatine  to  2  cups  of  liquid  for  a 
delicate  jelly. 

Use  2  tablespoons  gelatine  to  2  cups  of  liquid  for  a  stiff,, 
moulded  jelly. 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  until  it  softens;  add  boiling 
water  to  dissolve  it.  Strain  liquid  through  a  cheese  cloth  which 
has  been  wet  in  hot  water. 

If  jellies  are  to  be  moulded,  the  moulds  should  be  wet  with 
cold  water. 

Jellies  should  be  placed  near  the  ice  to  harden,  or  may  be 
hardened  quickly  by  surrounding  with  ice  water. 

Lemon  Jelly 

lYz  tablespoons    granulated  2  cups  boiling  water 

gelatine  1  cup  sugar 

54  cup  cold  water  ^  cup  lemon  juice 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water;  add  the  boiling  water,  when 
gelatine  is  softened,  add  sugar  and  juice;  strain;  chill; 
serve  cold  in  glass  dish  or  turn  from  mould.     Accompany  with 


285 


plain  or  whipped  cream.    Vary  by  adding  sliced  fruits.    Serves 
6  to  8. 

Orange  Jelly 

1  ^  tablespoons  granulated  1  cup  sugar 

gelatine  3  tablespoons  lemon    juice 

%.  cup  cold  water  1  ^  cup  orange  juice 

^  cup  boiling  water 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  the  boiling  water; 
when  gelatine  is  dissolved,  add  sugar  and  juice;  strain;  chill. 
Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream.  1^  cups  of  any  other  fruit 
juice  may  be  used.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Coffee   Jelly 

1^  tablespoons  granulated         2%  cups  coffee  (boiled    or 
gelatine  filtered) 

y^.  cup  cold  water  ^  cup  sugar 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water;  add  the  boiling  coffee 
and  sugar;  dissolve  gelatine  and  strain;  chill.  Serve  with  plain 
or  whipped  cream.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Fruit   Jelly 

2  tablespoons  granulated  3^  cup  lemon  juice 

gelatine  2  oranges 

34  cup  cold  water  2  bananas 

2  cups  boiling  water  ^  cup  canned  fruit 
1  cup  sugar 

Prepare  as  lemon  jelly,  when  beginning  to  stiffen  stir  in 
the  fruit  and  let  stand  till  firm.  Serve  with  cream.  Serves  8 
to  10. 

Snow  Pudding 

13^  tablespoons    granulated  1  cup  sugar 

gelatine  34  cup  lemon  juice 

34  cup  cold  water  3  egg    whites 

1  cup  boiling  water 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  boiling  water,  and 


286 


when  dissolved,  add  sugar  and  juice.  Strain  into  a  large  bowl 
and  place  in  ice  water  to  cool,  stirring  occasionally.  Beat 
whites  of  eggs  until  light.  When  the  jelly  begins  to  thicken 
beat  it  well  and  add  the  egg  whites.  Beat  mixture  until  smooth 
and  nearly  hard,  then  pour  into  a  mould  or  glass  dish.  Chill; 
serve  cold  with  custard  sauce  or  whipped  cream.     Serves  8. 

Other  fruit  flavors  may  be  substituted  for  the  lemon  juice 
in  snow  pudding. 

Custard  Sauce 

3  egg  yolks  ,  1  pint  hot  milk 

^  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 

j'i  teaspoon  salt 
Beat   the   yolks   of   eggs,    add   sugar,   salt,    and   hot   milk 
gradually.    Cook  over  hot  water  until  thickened,  stirring  con- 
stantly.   Strain,  flavor,  chill,  and  serve  with  snow  pudding. 

Pineapple   Snow   Pudding 

Follow  recipe  for  Snow  Pudding,  using  2  tablespoons 
gelatine  in  place  of  1^^  tablespoons  gelatine,  and  add  1  cup 
grated  pineapple  just  before  beating.  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
will  be  sufficient. 

Coffee  Cream 

1^  tablespoons  granulated  ^  cup  sugar 

gelatine  1^  cup  whipped  or  plain 

%  cup  cold  water  cream  or  milk 

y2  cup  strong  coffee 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  boiling  coffee  and  sugar, 
stir  till  gelatine  and  sugar  are  dissolved,  strain  into  an  earthen 
or  agate-ware  dish,  and  place  in  ice  water  to  cool,  stirring 
occasionally.  When  the  liquid  acquires  the  consistency  of  syrup, 
beat  well,  add  whipped  cream,  beat  until  it  becomes  thick,  but 
not  hard;  then  pour  into  a  glass  dish.  If  milk  or  plain  cream 
is  used  it  may  be  added  as  soon  as  the  jelly  is  strained.  Chill. 
Serves  6  to  8. 


287 


Marshmallcw  Fancy 

1  cup  sugar  J4  cup  cold  water 

1  cup  boiling  water  4  egg  whites 

1  lA  tablespoons  gelatine  3^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Almond  flavoring 
Boil  sugar  in  water  to  form  a  thin  syrup.  Add  gelatine 
which  has  been  softened  in  the  cold  water.  Heat  until  the 
gelatine  is  dissolved.  Strain  and  chill  until  it  begins  to  grow 
syrupy.  Beat  well  and  add  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs  gradually. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  and  a  few  drops  of  almond  flavoring.  Beat 
until  thoroughly  cold  and  stiff.  Then  pile  into  a  dish.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream.     Serves  8  to  10. 

Prune  Whip  with  Gelatine 

4  tablespoons  granulated  1  cup   hot   prune   juice 

gelatine  1  cup   prunes,   stoned 

y2  cup  cold  water  1  lemon,  juice  and  grated 

1  cup   boiling   water  rind 

1  cup  sugar 

Soften  the  gelatine  with  the  cold  water,  add  the  hot  water 
and  hot  prune  juice.  Stir  until  the  gelatine  is  all  dissolved. 
Add  the  sugar,  prunes  and  lemon.  Chill.  W||en  it  begins  to 
stiffen,  beat  until  light.  ^  cup  whipped  cream  may  be  added 
if  desired.    Serves  8  to  10. 

Dried  apricots,  stewed  plums,  strawberries,  raspberries,  or 
other  fruit  may  be  used  in  the  same  way.  If  apricots  or  plums 
are  used  the  lemon  juice  may  be  omitted. 

Orange    Bavarian 

1  tablespoon  granulated  1  small  lemon  (juice) 

gelatine  1  cup  sugar 

"2  tablespoons  cold   water  4  eggs 

1  cup  orange  juice  (2  to  3  6  sponge  or  lady  fingers 
oranges) 
Cover    gelatine    with    cold    water.     Let    stand    to    soften. 
Squeeze  juice  from  oranges  and  lemon.   Heat  orange  and  lemon 


288 


juice  with  ^  cup  sugar.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  add  ^  cup 
sugar  to  them.  Add  hot  juice  slowly  and  then  stir  over  hot 
water  until  the  mixture  thickens.  Add  softened  gelatine,  stir 
till  all  is  dissolved,  strain,  cool  till  it  begins  to  thicken,  beat 
well.  Add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Set  in  a  pan  of  ice 
water  and  beat  till  thick  enough  to  hold  in  shape.  Turn  into 
a  mould  lined  with  lady  fingers  and  chill.    Serves  8  to  10, 

Charlotte   Russe 

1  tablespoon  granulated  ^  cup  powdered  sugar 

gelatine  1^  teaspoon  vanilla 

%.  cup  cold  water  1  pt.  cream,  whipped 

Ys  cup  hot  water  6  lady  fingers 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  until  soft.  Add  the 
hot  water  and  sugar.  Strain.  Place  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  ice 
water  and  stir  constantly.  \dd  flavoring.  When  it  forms  a 
thick  syrup  beat  thoroughly.  Then  add  the  whip  from  the  cream 
one-third  at  a  time.  Arrange  the  sponge  fingers  one-half  inch 
apart  around  the  sides  of  a  mould  turning  the  crust  out.  Fill 
with  the  cream.  When  thoroughly  chilled,  turn  out  and  serve. 
Serves  8  to  10. 

Caramel  Charlotte 

1  tablespoon  gelatine  1  cup  cream 

^  cup  cold  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  5  egg  whites 

%'cup  boiling  water 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Scald  cream.  Caramelize 
the  sugar,  add  boiling  water.  Pour  syrup  over  gelatine,  stir 
until  dissolved,  add  cream,  strain  into  bowl,  and  place  the 
bowl  in  ice  water.  Stir  occasionally.  When  of  the  consistency 
of  thick  syrup,  add  vanilla,  and  beat  well.  Then  add  well- 
beaten  egg  whites  and  beat  well  together  until  ready  to  set, 
then  pour  into  a  wet  mould.    Chill.    Serves  8  to  10. 


PUDDING  SAUCES 

Hard   Sauce 

y3  cup  butter  >4  teaspoon  flavoring  or 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  ^4  teaSpoon  nutmeg 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually  and  beat  until  light 
and  creamy.   Add  flavoring  and  beat  again,  chill.   Serves  6  to  8. 

Lemon  Sauce 

1  cup  sugar  1  lemon  (rind  and  juice) 

2  tablespoons  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 
2  cups  boiling  water 

Mix  the  sugar  and  flour  thoroughly,  then  add  boiling  water 
slowly,  and  cook  15  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the 
lemon  rind  and  juice,  then  the  butter,  and  stir  until  the  butter 
is  melted;  serve  at  once.  If  the  sauce  is  too  thick,  add  hot 
water.    Serves  8. 

Vanilla  Sauce 

%  cup  sugar  4  tablespoons  butter 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  boiling  w^ater 

^lix  sugar  and  flour  thoroughly,  add  boiling  water  slowly, 
and  cook  for  15  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  butter, 
stir  till  melted,  and  add  vanilla  just  before  serving.    Serves  8. 

Cream  Sauce 

2  eggs  1  lemon  (rind  and  juice) 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  grated  apple 

Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar,  add  rind  and  juice  of  lemon, 
then  the  beaten  whites,  and  the  apple  gradually.  Cook  3  minutes 
over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly.    Serves  8. 

Fruit   Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  egg  whites 

1  cup  po\\  iered  sugar  1  pint  berries  or  ^4  cup  jam 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  and  cream  well  together, 

then  add  the  egg  whites  and  beat  thoroughly.    Crush  the  berries 

289 


290 


and  beat  in  just  before  serving  or  beat  in  the  jam  well.     Serves 
6  to  8. 

Chocolate   Sauce 

2  cups  sugar  ^  cup  milk 

2  ounces  chocolate  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Melt  the  chocolate  over  hot  water.  Add  the  sugar,  butter, 
and  milk.  Cook  directly  over  the  fire  until  it  will  form  a  soft 
ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add 
the  vanilla  and  serve  hot  on  ice  cream  or  on  hot  puddings. 
Serves  6  to  8. 

Fruit   Sauce  Thickened  with  Flour 

2  tablespoons  flour  2  cups  fruit  juice  (heated) 

%.  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter 

Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  the  fruit  juice 
slowly,  and  cook  15  minutes.  ^  cup  candied  or  preserved  fruit, 
cut  in  small  pieces,  may  be  added.  Add  the  butter  just  before 
serving.   Serves  8. 

Egg  Sauce 

3  egg  yolks  1  or  two  egg  whites 

Yz  cup  sugar 

Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together.  Heat  over  hot  water, 
stirring  until  thickened.  Beat  in  the  whites  (which  have  been 
beaten  to  a  froth) just  before  serving.    Serves  8. 

Orange  Sauce 

^  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter 

2y2  tablespoons  flour  1^  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  cup  orange  juice  ^^  orange  rind 

Mix  the  sugar  and  flour,  add  the  orange  juice  gradually, 
stirring  constantly;  boil  5  minutes,  remove  from  the  fire,  add 
the  butter,  lemon  juice,  and  orange  rind.    Serves  8. 


291 


Creamy  Sauce 

1  cup  sugar  ^  tablespoon  vanilla 

%  cup  water  2  eggs 

y2  tablespoon  butter 
Boil  the  sugar  and  water  to  a  syrup.    Add  the  butter  and 
vanilla.     Just   before   serving   add   the   eggs   which   have   been 
beaten  very  thoroughly.    Serves  12. 

Molasses    Sauce 

1  cup  molasses  ]4,  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  2  tablespoons  butter 

Boil  all  together  and  serve  hot  with  steamed  or  baked 
puddings.     Serves  6  to  8. 

Nut    Sauce 
1  cup  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter 

y^.  cup  water  ^  cup  chopped  nuts 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  for  15  or  20  minutes 
until  the  syrup  begins  to  thicken.  x\dd  the  butter  and  nuts. 
Serve  hot  with  ice  cream  or  hot  puddings.    Serves  6  to  8. 


FROZEN  DISHES 

Purposes  of  Freezing 

The  purpose  of  freezing  is  the  extraction  of  heat  from  food 
in  order  to  prepare  an  appetizing  and  cooling  dish  that  will  be 
refreshing  to  the  body. 

The  degree  of  heat  at  which  food  is  served  has  much  to 
do  with  making  the  food  palatable,  and  when  the  temperature 
of  the  food  is  reduced  to  the  freezing  point  there  is  a  decided 
change  in  flavor.  The  proportion  of  sugar  and  flavoring  used 
in  a  dish  which  is  to  be  prepared  by  freezing  must  be  about 
double  that  used  in  other  desserts,  as  the  organs  of  taste  are 
less  sensitive  when  chilled. 

Principles    of   Freezing 

The  principle  of  freezing  is  extraction  of  heat  through  the 
melting  of  ice  and  the  subsequent  melting  of  salt — a  double 
action. 

Salt  has  a  strong  affinity  for  water — thus  salt  is  used  with 
the  ice,  causing  it  to  melt;  but  heat  is  necessary  to  change  the 
ice  from  a  solid  to  a  liquid,  and  heat  is  drawn  from  the  nearest 
substance,  hence  the  mixture  to  be  frozen  is  packed  in  a  vessel 
made  of  some  substance  which  is  a  good  conductor  (a  metal 
pail)  and  the  ice  is  surrounded  by  a  non-conducting  material 
(a  wooden  pail)  so  that  the  heat  will  not  be  drawn  from  the 
surrounding  air. 

Value  of  Frozen  Dishes 

Frozen  dishes  are  refreshing  to  the  body  but  retard  diges- 
tion by  lowering  the  temperature  of  the  stomach.  They  are  less 
harmful  if  used  between  meals  because  then  they  do  not  inter- 
fere with  the  digestion  of  other  foods.  They  are  often  valuable 
in  sickness  in  helping  to  cool  the  temperature  of  the  body. 


292 


293 


Ice  creams  are  all  rich  and  nourishing,  but  fruit  ices  are 
merely  refreshing  to  the  body. 

Frozen  dishes  are  used  as  appetizers,  as  a  relish  with  meat 
or  game,  or  as  a  dessert. 

Utensils  necessary  for  preparing  frozen  dishes  are: — an 
ice  pick,  burlap  bag  and  mallet  or  ice  chopper,  patent  freezer, 
cup  or  dipper  to  handle  the  ice,  burlap  and  newspaper  to  cover 
the  freezer. 

Methods   of  Preparing   Frozen   Dishes 

Ices  are  made  from  sweetened  fruit  juice.  They  are  made 
more  smooth  by  cooking  the  water  and  sugar  together  to  a  thin 
syrup.  If  too  much  sugar  is  used  the  mixture  is  hard  to  freeze; 
if  too  little,  it  is  coarse  and  rough.  (1^  cups  sugar  to  a  quart 
of  water,  boil  5  minutes  and  strain.)  Frozen  fruit  is  prepared 
from  fruits  pressed  through  a  colander,  or  cut  in  small  pieces 
A\dth  a  silver  knife,  or  whole  fruits  cooked  in  syrup  before 
adding  as  they  freeze  too  hard  if  uncooked. 

Ice  creams  are  made  with  sweetened  and  flavored  creams. 
Scalded  cream  gives  a  smoother,  more  velvety  ice  cream  but 
swells  less  than  raw  cream  in  freezing.  Scald  cream,  dissolve 
sugar  in  it,  cool,  add  flavoring,  and  freeze.  Either  fruit  juice 
or  crushed  fruit  may  be  used  for  ice  cream;  it  is  preferable  to 
use  only  the  juice  of  very  seedy  fruits.  When  preparing  ice 
cream  with  fruit  the  sugar  and  crushed  fruit  should  stand  one 
hour  in  a  cool  place,  or  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  it  is 
added  to  the  cream  and  frozen. 

General  Rules  for  Freezing 

The  can,  cover,  and  dasher  of  the  freezer  should  be  scalded, 
and  then  chilled  before  the  mixture  which  is  to  be  frozen  is 
placed  in  it.  Adjust  the  can  carefully  in  the  tub  before  packing. 
Pour  in  the  mixture,  put  in  the  dasher,  cover,  adjust  the  crank, 
and  pack  with  finely  chopped  ice  and  rock  salt;  this  must  be 


294 


higher  around  the  can  than  the  mixture  is  inside.  A  freezer 
should  never  be  filled  more  than  three- fourths  full,  to  allow  for 
expansion  in  freezing. 

Use  four  times  as  much  ice  as  salt  for  freezing;  use  five 
times  as  much  ice  as  salt  in  packing.  The  larger  the  quantity 
of  salt  used  the  more  quickly  the  freezing  takes  place  and  the 
coarser  the  grain.  Coarse  rock  salt  gives  the  best  results  in 
freezing.  A  heavy  bag  of  burlap,  canvas,  or  carpet,  and  a 
wooden  mallet  are  excellent  for  pounding  the  ice. 

The  rate  of  turning  the  freezer  also  affects  the  grain  of 
the  frozen  dish.  If  the  freezer  is  turned  slowly  and  steadily 
the  mixture  is  fine  grained  and  velvety.  This  is  desirable  for 
ice  cream.  If  the  freezer  is  turned  quickly  and  the  mixture 
freezes  rapidly  it  becomes  granular.  This  is  desirable  for  sher- 
bet. A  mixture  which  is  frozen  quickly  and  stirred  only  inter- 
mittently is  full  of  crystals.    Use  for  water  ice  and  frozen  fruit. 

After  cream  is  frozen  it  is  much  improved  if  repacked  for 
2  or  3  hours  to  '"ripen."  Ripening  develops  a  rich  flavor  and 
delicious  "grain." 

When  the  mixture  is  frozen,  remove  ice  and  salt  from 
around  the  top  of  the  can;  wipe  cover  and  top  with  a  cloth 
wrung  out  of  hot  water;  uncover  and  remove  dasher,  scrape  it; 
then  beat  frozen  mixture  with  wooden  spoon  or  paddle  five 
minutes;  place  paraffin  paper  or  heavy  paper  over  can;  cover 
and  put  a  cork  in  the  hole.  Drain  off  all  the  water  which  has 
collected  during  the  freezing  and  which  should  not  be  removed 
until  freezing  is  completed;  repack  the  freezer,  putting  ice  and 
salt  over  the  top,  and  cover  with  carpet  or  newspaper,  and 
allow  it  to  stand  in  a  cold  place  for  several  hours. 

A  tightly  covered  tin  can  and  a  wooden  pail  may  be  sub- 
stituted for  an  ice  cream  freezer,  using  a  wooden  spoon  or 
paddle  to  scrape  the  mixture  from  the  sides  and  bottom  of  the 
can  as  it  freezes. 


295 


To  mould  an  ice  after  freezing,  pack  solidly  in  a  mould, 
cover  with  paraffin  paper  and  bury  in  ice  and  salt,  using  six 
parts  ice  to  one  of  salt. 

Danger    from    Eating    Frozen    Mixtures 

Cans  for  freezers  should  be  made  of  a  good  quality  of  tin. 
If  an  acid  mixture  is  allowed  to  stand  in  tin  for  a  long  time 
when  not  chilled  it  may  act  on  the  tin,  forming  poisonous 
compounds. 

Danger  from  ptomaine  poisoning  comes  from  allowing  old 
cream  to  stand  for  a  long  time.  Ptomaine  poisoning  is  a  form 
of  decomposition  which  develops  slowly  in  organic  matter. 
There  is  seldom  much  danger  of  it  occurring  except  in  very  hot 
weather  and  where  foods  are  carelessly  handled. 

Digestive  disturbances  are  apt  to  occur  if  frozen  dishes 
are  eaten  hurriedly  or  in  large  quantities. 

Kinds  of  Frozen  Mixtures 

I     Without  Cream 

1  Water  Ice — Fruit  juice,  sugar,  and  water  frozen. 

2  Sherbet — Water  ice  plus  white  of  egg,  gelatine  or  milk. 

3  Punch — Fruit  water  ice  partially  frozen. 

4  Frappe — Coarsely  frozen  water  ice,  granulated  or 
broken  up  in  appearance.  Equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt  used  in 
the  freezing. 

5  Granite — Fruits  frozen  in  fruit  juice,  sugar,  and 
water,  having  a  rough,  icy  structure.  Twice  as  much  ice  as 
salt  used  in  the  freezing. 

6  Sorbet — Smooth,  half  frozen  sherbet. 


296 


II    Ice  Cream 

1  Philadelphia  Ice  Cream — Plain  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  extracts,  fruit  or  chocolate,  frozen, 

2  Neapolitan,  New  York,  or  Delmonico  Ice  Cream — A 
frozen  custard,  prepared  of  cream  or  milk  combined  with  eggs, 
flavoring  and  sometimes  flour  and  salt,  cooked. 

3  Frozen  Pudding — Philadelphia  or  Neapolitan  Ice 
Cream  plus  nuts  or  fruits  or  both. 

4  Mousse  or  Par  fait — ^Whipped  cream,  drained,  flav- 
ored, frozen  without  stirring;  beaten  eggs  are  sometimes  added. 
One  half  as  much  salt  as  ice  is  used  in  freezing. 

Vanilla  Ice   Cream 

1  quart  cream  2  tablespoons  vanilla  extract 

1  cup  sugar 
'  Scald  the  cream,  add  sugar,  stir  until  dissolved,  cool,  add 
flavoring,  and  freeze.  Serves  8  to  12. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream 

2  ounces  chocolate  1  cup  sugar 

1  quart  cream  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Scald  cream,  melt  chocolate,  add  sugar,  then  add  hot  cream 

gradually,  heat  till  smooth;  when  cool,  add  vanilla,  and  freeze. 

Serves  8  to  12. 

Caramel  Ice  Cream 

1  cup  sugar  1  quart  cream 

^  cup  boiling  water  ^  cup  sugar 

Melt  sugar  in  a  frying  pan;  when  caramel  stage  is 
reached,  add  boiling  water  gradually;  mix  with  the  hot  cream 
and  sugar;  when  cool,  freeze.    Serves  8  to  12. 

Coffee    Ice   Cream 

Ys  cup  finely  ground  coffee  1  quart  cream 

Yz  cup  boiling  water  1  cup  sugar 

Make  filtered  coft'ee,  mix  with  the  hot  cream,  and  the 
sugar;  when  cool,  freeze.    Serves  8  to  12. 


297 


Fruit   Water    Ice    or    Frozen    Fruit 

2  cups  fruit  juice  or  2  cups  sugar 

3  cups  crushed  fruit  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
1  quart  water 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  to  a  s3Tup,  cool,  add  the  fruit 
juice,  strain,  chill,  and  freeze.    Serves  8  to  12.     . 

Fruit    Ice  Cream 

2  cups  fruit  juice  or  2  cups  sugar 

3  cups  crushed  fruit  1  quart  cream 

Add  the  sugar  to  the  fruit;  let  stand  to  dissolve  the  sugar; 
add  the  cream  and  freeze.   Serves  12  to  16. 

Orange   Ice 

1  quart  water  2  cups  orange  juice 

2  cups  sugar  ^4  cup  lemon  juice 

Boil  the  sugar,  water,  and  grated  rind  of  1  orange  to  a 
syrup,  cool;  add  fruit  juice  and  strain;  cool,  freeze.  Serves 
8  to  12. 

Mixed  Fruit   Ice 

3  oranges  /2  can  apricots 
3  lemons  3  cups  water 

2  bananas  3  cups  sugar 

Squeeze  oranges  and  lemons,  and  put  apricots  and  bananas 
through  a  sieve.  Boil  sugar  and  water  to  a  thin  syrup.  When 
cold  add  the  fruit  pulp  and  juice.  Chill  thoroughly  before 
freezing.  From  1  cup  to  1  pint  of  cream  may  be  added,  if  de- 
sired, before  freezing.    Serves  24. 

Milk  Sherbet 

1  quart  milk  3  large  lemons  (juice) 

2  cups  sugar 

Freeze  the  milk  and  sugar  slightly,  add  the  juice  of  the 
lemons,  and  freeze  again.     Pack  until  needed.    Serves  8  to  12. 


298 


Peach  Ice  or  Frozen  Peaches 

Y\  can  peaches  Water  to  make  4  cups 

1  Yz  cups  sugar 

Drain  the  peaches,  put  through  a  ricer  or  fruit  press. 
Cook  the  water  and  sugar  5  minutes.  Strain;  add  peaches; 
cool  and  freeze.    Serves  6  to  8. 

Grape  Frappe 

1  y^  cups  sugar  3  cups  grape  juice 

1  quart  water  2  lemons  (juice) 

Boil  the  water  and  sugar  together  for  10  minutes.  Strain 
through  a  cheese  cloth  into  the  can  of  the  freezer.  When  cold, 
add  the  fruit  juice.  Pack  with  ice  and  salt,  using  equal  pro- 
portions. When  the  mixture  is  half  frozen,  remove  the  dasher 
and  pack  until  ready  to  serve.  Scrape  the  frozen  mixture 
from  the  side  of  the  can  and  beat  well  before  serving.  Serves 
12  to  16. 

Lemon  Sherbet 

1  quart  water  1  cup  lemon  juice 

2  cups  sugar  1  egg  white 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  to  a  syrup;  cool;  add 
lemon  juice  and  strain;  chill,  freeze,  and  when  partly  frozen 
add  egg  white  well-beaten.  Other  fruit  juices  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  or  combined  with  the  lemon  juice.    Serves  8  to  12. 

Rhubarb    Sherbet 

2^  quarts  rhubarb (2  lbs.)  1  lemon,  juice  and  rind 

1  quart  water  1  egg  white 

1  cup  sugar 

Stew  rhubarb  and  water  until  perfectly  tender.  Strain, 
add  the  sugar  and  rind  of  lemon,  and  boil  till  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Add  lemon  juice,  strain,  chill,  and  freeze.  When 
partly  frozen,  add  egg  white  well-beaten,  and  freeze  until  firm. 
Serves  12  to  16. 


299 


Cranberry   Sherbet 

1  pint  cranberry  juice  2  lemons,  juice 

1  pint  water  2  egg  whites 

2  cups  sugar 

Stew  the  cranberries  in  water  until  they  burst  from  their 
skins,  strain,  and  add  sugar.  Heat  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Cool,  add  the  lemon  juice,  chill,  and  freeze.  When  partly 
frozen,  add  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and  freeze  until  firm. 
Serves  8  to  12. 

White  Grape   Sherbet 

1  pint  water  2  cups  white  grape  juice 

1  cup  sugar  1  egg  white 

1  lemon  (juice) 
Make  a  thin  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  water.    Cool,  add  fruit 
juice,   strain,    and   freeze.     When  partly   frozen   add   the   egg 
white  well-beaten  and  freeze  till  firm.    Serves  8  to  12. 


INDEX 


Acid,  in  jelly,  82 
Almonds,  salted,  102 
Angel  food  cake,   249 
Apple,  baked,  pudding,  279 
Apple  butter,  87 
Apple  chutney,  69 
Apple  dumplings,  280 
Apple  fritters,  208 
Apple   jelly,    84 
Apple  pie,  265 
Apple  pudding,  baked,  279 
Apple   salad,   241 
Apple  sauce,   51 
Apple  snow  pudding,   276 
Apple  tapioca  pulding,  278 
Apples,   baked,  50 
Apples,  canned,  78 
Apples,  pickled,  72 
Apples,    scalloped,   274 
Apples,   steamed,   50 
Apples,  stewed,  51 
Apricot  marmalade,  87 
Apricot  tapioca  pudding,  278 
Apricot  whip,  277 
Apricots,  canned,  79 
Apricots,  stewed,  51 
Apricots,  boiled,  14 
Asparagus,  canned,  62 
Asparagus,   scalloped,   17 
Au  gratin,   cauliflower,   19 
Au  gratin,  potatoes,  32 


Bacon, 
Bacon, 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baked 
Baking 


164 

to  cook,  164 
apple  pudding,  279 
apples,   50 
bananas,  51 
beans,    15 
calf's  heart,  161 
custards,    124 
eggs,   113 
fish,    179 

hominy  grits,   106 
omelet,   116 
potatoes  (sweet),  35 
potatoes(white),  30 
rhubarb,  52 
squash,  38 
powder  biscuits,  196 


Banana  pie,  267 
Banana  snow  pudding,  277 
Bananas,     baked,     51 
Batters  and  doughs,  192 

Baking  powder  mixtures,  195 

General  directions  for  mixing,   194 

Methods  of  entangling  air,   192 

Methods  of  entangling  gas,   192 

Recipes  for — see  breads  and  cakes 

Thickness  of,  193 

Ways  of  combining  ingredients,  193 
Bavarian  cream — see  Charlotte  Russe 
Bavarian,  orange,  287 
Bean  soup,   black,  130 
Bean  soup,  dried,  130 
Beans,    14 

Baked,   Boston,  15 

Butter — see  lima,  15 

Dried,   15 

Green  string,    15 

Lima,    green,    15 

Lima,    canned,   65 

String,   15 

String,    canned,    67 

Wax,    15 
Beaten  bread,  217 
Beef,    143 

Canned,   76 

Corned,   161 

Creamed  chipped,   163 

Cuts  of,   145 

Diagram  of  beef  animal,   144 

Hamburg  steak,  156 

Heart,   161 

Loaf,  156 

Pot  roast,  157 

Stew,  157 

Stock,   135-137 

Tests  for  good,   143 
Beets,  16 

Boiled,   16 

Canned,   63 

Pickled,   72 
Beverages,  recipes  for,  5 

See  also  fruit  juices 
Biscuits,   196-197 

Baking  powder,    196 

Emergency,   196 

Pin  wheel,  197 


Soda,  197 

Black  bean  soup,  130 

Blackberries,   canned,   79 

Blackberries,  sun-preserved,  92 

Blackberry  jelly,   85 

Blackberry  pudding,  283 

Blackberry  shrub,   94 

Blanching,  57 

Boiled  frosting,  260 

Boiled  tongue,   161 

Boston  baked  beans,.  15 

Bottle  wax,  94 

Bouillon,  138 

Brains,  calves',   167 

Bran  cookies,   254 

Bran  gems,  200 

Braized  tongue,  162 

Bread,  210 

Breaded  veal  cutlets,  159 

Bread  flour,   212 

Bread    griddle    cakes,    206 

Bread  pudding,  275 

Bread  pudding,  chocolate,  275 

Breads 
Processes  of  bread  making 
Baking,   215 
Kneading,   214 
Mixing,   214 
Rising,   215 
Recipes  for   quick   breads  ' 
Baking  powder  mixtures,  195 
Biscuits,   196-197 
Bran  gems,  200 
Brown   bread,   202 
Coffee   bread,   quick,  203 
Corn   bread,  200 
Com  bread,   sticks,   201 
Corn  bread,  spoon,  201 
Corn  meal  dodgers,  202 
Corn  meal  rolls,  201 
Corn  muffins,  199 
Dumplings,  197 
Gems,   199-200 
Graham  bread,  202 
Graham  popovers,  195 
Griddle  cakes — see  index 
Hot  cross  buns  with  baking 

powder,  198 
Muffins,    199-200 
Nut  bread,  203 
Popovers,   graham,   195 
Quick  coffee  bread,  203 


Quick  graham  bread,  202 

Raisin  bread,  203 
Recipes  for  yeast  breads 

Beaten   bread,   217 

Bread  sticks,   220 

Coffee  bread  with  yeast,  217 

Pulled  bread,  221 

Rye  bread,  217 

Soft  graham  bread,  217 

White  fiour  bread,   216 

Whole  wheat  bread,  217 
Rolls  and  buns,  218 

Buns,   220 

Buns,   cinnamon,   rolled,  221 

Buns,  date,  221 

Buns,  hot  cross,  with  baking 
powder,    198 

English  muffins,   219 

Finger  rolls,  219 

Luncheon  rolls,  219 

Parker  house  rolls,  218 

Rolled  cinnamon  buns,  221 

Scones,   198 

Steamed   brown   bread,   202 

Waffles,    207 

Whole  wheat  muffins,   199 
Uses  for  stale  bread,  221 

Canapes,  222 

Creamed  toast.   223 

Croutons,    222 

French  toast,  223 

Milk  toast,  222 

Sippets,   222 

Soup  sticks,  222 

Toast,   222 

Zwieback,  222 
Broiled  fish,   179 
Broiled  oysters,   185 
Broiling  of  meat,   154 
Broth,  Scotch,  139 
Brown  bread,  steamed,  202 
Brown  gravy,  155 
Browned  hash,    168 
Brown  sauce,  46 
Brown  stock,   137 
Brown  sugar  frosting,  261 
Brussels  sprouts,  16 
Buckwheat  griddle  cakes,  206 
Buns,  220 

Bran  gems,  200 

Date,    221 


Hot  cross,   198 

Rolled  cinnamon,  221 
Butter  balls,  to  make,  224 
Butter   beans,    15 
Butter  cakes,   243 
Butter,   flavored,   226 
Butter  scotch,  96 
Butter  scotch  pie,  267 

Cabbage,  17 

Boiled,   17 

Boiled  with  pork  or 
corned  beef,   18 

Creamed,  17 

Salad,  celery  and,  236 

Salad,  jellied,  240 

Scalloped,  18 
Cabinet  pudding,  276 
Cake  frostings,  259 
Cooked,  260 

Boiled,  260 

Brown  sugar,  261 

Caramel,  261 

Chocolate  filling,  252 

Chocolate,   261 

Maple,  261 
Uncooked,   259 

Egg,  259 

Mocha,  259 

Orange  filling,  260 

Orange  frosting,  260 

Ornamental,  260 

Water,  259 
Cakes,  243 
Kinds,  243 
Rules  for,  243 
Large  cakes,  243 

Angel  food,  249 

Chocolate  cake,  251 

Eggless  cake — see  white   cake 
without  eggs 

Ginger  bread,  250 

Gold  cake,  247 

Jelly   roll,   249 

Mock   sponge   cake— see   water 
sponge 

Pecan  cake,  251 

Pound  cake,  247 

Spice  cake  with  eggs,  250 

Spiced  eggless  cake  No.  1,  246 

Spiced  eggless  cake  No.  2,  247 

Sponge  cake,  248 


Sunshine  cake,  250 

Washington  pie,  248 

Water  sponge  cake,  248 

White  cake  No.   1,  245 

White  cake  No.  2,  246 

White  cake  without  eggs,  246 

White  sponge  cake,  249 

Yellow  cake  No.  1,  245 

Yellow  cake  No.  2,  245 
Small  cakes  and  cookies,  253 

Bran  cookies,  254 

Chocolate  cookies,   253 

Cookies,  253 

Cookies,  ideal,  254 

Fondant  cakes,  99,  257 

Fruit  cakes,  256 

Ginger  cookies,   255 

Ginger  drop  cakes,  256 

Lady  fingers,  256 

Marguerites,  257 

Meringues,  257 

Nut  wafers,  257 

Oatmeal  cookies,  255 

Peanut  cookies,  253 

Tea  cakes,  252 
Calf's  brains,  167 
Calf's  heart,   baked,   161 
Calf's  heart,  boiled,   161 
Canapes,   222 
Candied  orange  peel,  97 
Candies,   95 

Butter  scotch,  96 

Candied  orange  peel,  97 

Caramel  fudge,  97 

Caramels,  97 

Divinity — see   nougat,    100 

Double  fudge,   98 

Fondant,   98 

Fudge,   100 

Maple  fudge,   100 

Molasses  candy,   100 

Nougat,  100 

Peanut  brittle,   101 

Peanut   brittle  with  molasses,    101 

Peppermint  drops,  101 

Peppermint  drops  with 
fondant,    99 

Pinoche,   102 

Pop-corn  balls,   102 

Puffed  rice  balls,   102 

Salted  almonds,  102 

Salted  peanuts,  103 


stuffed  dates,   99 
White  pulled  candy,  103 
Canned   fruits,    77 
Canned  meats,  76 
Canned  vegetables,  62 
Canning, 

Methods  of,   54 

Principles  of,  55 
Time  table  for,  62,  78 
Caper  sauce,   46 
Caramel,  uses  for,  98 
Caramel  charlotte,  288 
Caramel  com  starch  pudding,  273 
Caramel  frosting^  261 
Caramel  fudge,  97 
Caramel  ice  cream,  296 
Caramel  syrup,  97 
Caramels,  97 
Carrot  marmalade,  88 
Carrots,   18 
Carrots,  canned,   63 
Carrots,  creamed,  19 
Carrots,    scalloped— see   scalloped 

cabbage,  17 
Casserole  of  rice  and  meat,  169 
Casserole  of  rice  and  salmon,   183 
Cauliflower,   19 
Cauliflower  au  gratin,   19 
Cauliflower,    scalloped,— see   scalloped 

cabbage,   17 
Celery,  20 

Celery  and  cabbage  salad,  236 
Celery  and  tomato  salad,  235 
Celery  and  cabbage  salad,  235 
Celery,  creamed,  20 
Celery  soup,  cream  of,  132 
Cereal  coffee,  6 
Cereal  pudding,    109 
Cereals,  104 
General   directions  for  cooking,    104 
Table   of  proportions   and   time   for 
cooking,   105 
Recipes  for,    106 

Cereal  pudding,   109 

Com  meal  mush,  106 

Corn  meal  mush  for  frying,   106 

Cracked  wheat,   107 

Cream  of  wheat,  109 

Farina,   109 

Hominy  grits,    106 

Hominy  grits,  baked,  106 

Oatmeal,  coarse,  107 


Rice,  107 

Boiled,  107 

Cream,   125 

Croquettes,    108 

Croquettes,  with  syrup,   109 

Pudding,    108 

Savory,  108 

Scalloped,    109 

Steamed,  108 
Rolled  oats,   107 
Wheatena,   109 
Wheatlet,    109 
Charlotte  Russe,  288 
Cheese,   126 
Care  of,  126 
Cooking  of,  126 
Recipes  for 

Cheese   fondue,   128 

Cheese  souffle,  118 

Cheese  straws,   127 

Cottage  cheese,   126 

Macaroni  and  cheese,  127 

Noodles  and  cheese,   127 

Potatoes  au  gratin,  32 

Toasted  crackers  and  cheese,  224 

Welsh  rabbit,  126 
Cheese  and  nut  sandwiches,  236 
Cheese  and  pimento  salad,  238 
Cherries,    canned,    79 
Cherries,  sun-preserved,  92 
Chicken — see   poultry,    170 
Chicken,   canned,  77 
Chicken,    creamed,    175 
Chicken,  creamed  and  baked,  176 
Chicken  croquettes,  175 
Chicken  fricasseed,   174 
Chicken,  roast,   171 
Chicken  salad,  239 
Chicken  souffle,    118 
Chili  sauce,  69 
Chipped  beef,  creamed,    163 
Chocolate,  8-9 

Chocolate  bread  pudding,  275 
Chocolate  cake,  251 
Chocolate  cookies,  253 
Chocolate   com  starch  pudding,   273 
Chocolate  custards,  124 
Chocolate   eclairs,   271 
Chocolate  eclairs,  frosting  for,  271 
Chocolate  filling,  252 
Chocolate  frosting,  261 
Chocolate  ice  cream,  296 


Chocolate  pie,   26S 
Chocolate  sauce,  290 
Chow  chow,  70 
Chowder 

Corn,    133 
Fish,  140 
Chutney,  69 

Cinnamon   buns,   rolled,   221 
Clam  puree,  141 
Cocktail,   fruit,   53 
Cocoa,   9 

Coddled  eggs,   113 
Codfish  balls,   182 
Codfish,  creamed,  181 
Coffee,  5 
Boiled,  6 
Cereal,    6 
Filtered,  6 
Percolated,  6 
Coffee  bread,  quick,  203 
Coffee  bread  with  yeast,  218 
Coffee  cream,  286 
Coffee  ice  cream,  296 
Coffee  jelly,  285 
Cold  pack  method  of  canning,  56 

Cautions  to  be  observed,  59 

Equipment  necessary,   61 

General  rules  for,  58 

Processes   in,  56 
Cole  slaw  salad,  235      • 
Collards,    20 
Conser\'e,   88 

Cooked  mayonnaise  with  oil,  233 
Cooked  salad  dressing,  233 
Cookies,   252 

Recipes  for,  253 
Cooking 

General  rules,  4 

Methods  of,  2 

Reasons  for,  2 

Results  of,  3 

Success  in,  3 
Cooking  of  sugar,  95 
Cooking  over  meat,  rules  for,   167 
Com,  20 

On  the  cob,  21 
Pudding,   21 
Scalloped,    22 
Stewed,  21 
Com   bread,  200 
Com  bread,  spoon,  201 
Com  bread  sticks  201 


Com,   canned,   cold  pack,   63 

Com,   canned,   intermittent,   64 

Com  chowder,  133 

Corn  meal  dodgers,  202 

Com  meal  griddle  cakes,  205 

Com  meal  mush,  106 

Com  meal  mush,  for  frying,   106 

Com  meal  rolls,   201 

Com  meal,  tapioca  and,  277 

Com  muffins,   199 

Com  on  the  cob,  21 

Com  pudding,  21 

Com,    scalloped,    22 

Com  starch  puddings,  273 

Com  starch  pudding,  caramel,  273 

Com    starch    pudding,    chocolate,    273 

Corn  starch  pudding,  vanilla,  273 

Corn,   stewed,   21 

Corned  beef,   161 

Corned  beef,   boiled  cabbage  with,   18 

Cottage  cheese,  126 

Cottage  frait  pudding,  280 

Cottage  pudding,   280 

Cow  peas,  22 

Crabapple  jelly,  85 

Cracked  wheat,   107 

Crackers, 

Crisp,    223 

Nut  wafers,   223 

Toasted  crackers  and  cheese,   224 
Cranberry  and  raisin  pie,  269 
Cranberry  jelly,    52 
Cranberry  pudding,   steamed,    284 
Cranberry  sauce,   52 
Cranberry  sherbet,  299 
Cream  of  rice  soup,   138 
Cream  of  wheat,  109 
Cream  pie,  266 
Cream  puffs,   270 

Cream  puffs,  cream  filling  for,  270 
Cream  salad  dressing,  233 
Cream  sauce,  289 
Cream  soups,  131 
Cream  tapioca,    125 
Cream  toast,  223 
Creamy  omelet,    115 
Creamy    sauce,    291 
Crisp   crackers,   223 
Crooked  neck  squash,  38 
Croquettes,  191 
Croquettes,  chicken,   175 
Croquettes,   meat — see    chicken 


Croquettes,   potato,  33 

Croquettes,   potato,   with  cheese,  33 

Croquettes,  rice,  108 

Croquettes,  rice,  with  syrup,   109 

Croutons,  222 

Crumbing,  egging  and,  for  frying,  190 

Cucumber  and  radish  salad,  235 

Cucumber  jelly  salad,  240 

Cucumber  pickles,    70 

Cucumber  pickles,  sliced,  73 

Cucumbers,  22 

To  prepare,  22 
Currant   conserve,   88 
Currant  jelly,  85 
Currants,  to  prepare  dried,  282 
Curry  of  mutton,   160 
Custard  pie,  267 
Custard  sauce,  286 
Custards,   123 

Baked,   124 

Chocolate,    124 

Floating  island,  124 

Rice  cream,  125 

Soft,   124 

Steamed,   123 

Tapioca  (cream),  125 
Cutlets,  sauce  for,  159 
Cutlets,  •  veal,  breaded,   159 
Cymbelines,  38 

Date  buns,  221 
Date  graham  gems,  200 
Date  pudding,  281 
Desserts,  273 

Apple   dumplings,   280 

Apple    fritters,    208 

Apple   snow,   276 

Apple  tapioca,   278 

Apricot   tapioca,    278 

Apricot  whip,   277 

Baked  apple  pudding,  279 

Banana  snow,  277 

Blackberry  pudding,   283 

Bread  pudding,   275 

Bread  pudding,    chocolate,    275 

Cabinet  pudding,   276 

Caramel  com  starch  pudding,  273 

Cereal  pudding,   109 

Chocolate  com  starch  pudding,  237 

Chocolate  custards,   124 

Corn  starch  puddings,  273 


Cottage  pudding,  280 
Cottage  fmit  pudding,  280 
Cream  tapioca,   125 
Custards,   123 
Baked,  125 
Chocolate,   125 
Floating  island,  125 
Rice  cream,  125 
Soft,  125 
Steamed,  123 
Date  pudding,  281 
Fruit  short  cake,  279 
Graham  pudding,   283 
Indian  pudding,  281 
Junket,  121 
Lemon  tapioca,  278 
Orange  pudding,   274 
Pineapple   tapioca,   278 
Prune  souffle,  276 
Prune  tapioca,   278 
Puff  pudding,  277 
■    Queen  of  puddings,   275 
Rennet,  121 
Rice  cream,    109 
Rice  pudding,   108 
Scalloped  apples,   274 
Scalloped  rhubarb,   275 
Snow  balls,  283 

Steamed  cranberry  pudding,   284 
Steamed  fru\t  pudding,  282 
Steamed  mixtures,  281 
Strawberry  short  cake,   279 
Tapioca  puddings,  278 
Apple,   278 
Apricot,   278 
Cream,  125 
Lemon,   278 
Pineapple,  278 
Prune,   278 

Tapioca  and  corn  meal,  278 
Velvet  pudding,   274 
Desserts   prepared  with   gelatine,   284 
Bavarian    cream— see    Charlotte 

Russe 
Caramel  charlotte,  288 
Charlotte  Russe,   288 
Coffee  cream,  286 
Coffee  jelly,  285 
Fmit  jelly,  285 
Lemon  jelly,    285 
Marshmallow  fancy,  287 
Orange  Bavarian,  287 


Orange  jelly,   285 

Pineapple  snow   pudding,  286 

Prune  whip  with  gelatine,  287 

Snow  pudding,  285 
Frozen    dishes   see    frozen    dishes 
Steamed  puddings 

Blackberry    pudding,    283 

Cranberry  pudding,   284 

Fruit  pudding  with  pork,  282 

Fruit  pudding  with  suet,  282 

Graham  pudding,  283 

Snow    balls,    283 
Dewberries,  canned,  79 
Dewberries,    sun-preserved,   92 
Dewberry  jelly,  85 
Dewberry  shrub,  94 
Diagram  of  beef  animal,  144 
Dipping,  57 
Divinity  candy,    98 
Dixie  relish,   70 
Double  fudge,  98 
Doughnuts 

Raised  with   baking  powder,  271 

Raised  with  yeast,  271 
Drawn  butter  for  vegetables,  46 
Drawn  butter  sauce  for  fish,  47 
Dried   bean  soup,   130 
Dried  beans,   15 
Dried  peas,  15 
Dried  fruits,  50 
Dried  pea  soup,   130 
Duck,   roast,   176 
Dumplings,   197 
Dumplings,   apple,   280 

Eclairs,  chocolate,  271 

Eclairs,  chocolate,  frosting  for,  271 

Egg  frosting,  259 

Egg  plant,  23 

Boiled,  23 

Canned,  64 

Fried,  23 

Scalloped,  23 
Egg  salad,  238 
Egg  salad,  stuffed,  238 
Egg  sandwiches,  226 
Egg   sauce,   290 

Egging  and  crumbing  for  frying,  190 
Eggless  cakes — see  cakes 
Eggs,   110 

Baked,    113 

Care  of,  110 


Coddled,  113 

Cooking    of.    111 

Creamed,    113 

Economy  in  using,   112 

Hard  cooked,    113 

Methods  of  cooking,  HI 

Poached,   113 

Scrambled,  113 

Serving,    112 

Shirred,  113 

Soft  cooked,   112 

Tests  for  a  fresh  egg,  110 
Emergency   biscuits,    196 
English   muffins,   219 

Farina,   109 
Fats 

Changes  in  fat  when  heated,  186 

Cooking  in  fats,  186 

Egging  and  crumbing  for 
frying,  190 

Method  of  frying,   189 

Necessary    utensils    for    deep 
fat  frying,   186 

Temperature  for  frying,  188 

Tests  for  temperature,    188 

Time  table  for  frying,  189 

To  clarify  fat,   154 

To  render  fat,  154 

To  try  out  fat,  154 
Fig  preserves,   88 
Filling,  chocolate,  252 
Filling,   orange,  260 
Fillings  for  sandwiches,  225 
Filtered  coffee,  6 
Finger  rolls,  219 
Fireless    cooker,    4 
Fish,     178 
Preparation  and  cooking,   178 
Serving,    179 
Recipes 

Baked,  179 

Boiled,  180 

Broiled,  179 

Casserole  of  rice  and  salmon,   183 

Clam    puree,    141 

Codfish  balls,   182 

Creamed  codfish,   181 

Fish  chowder,    140 

Fish  cooked  in  fat,  180 

Fried  fish,   180 

Planked    fish,    180 


Salmon  croquettes,  183 

Salmon  loaf,   182 

Scalloped  fish,   181 

Scalloped  salmon,    183 

Souffle,  118,  181 

Steamed  fish,   180 

Stuffing  for  fish,   180 
Fish  sandwiches,  226 
Fish  soups,   140 
Flaky  pastry,  265 
Flank  steak,    146 
Flank  steak,   stuffed,   158 
Flavored  butter,  226 
Floating  island,   124 
Flour 

Bread,  212 

Graham,  213 

Hard  wheat,   212 

Pastry,    212 

Soft    wheat,    212 

Spring   wheat,    212 

Tests  for  flours,  212 

Whole  wheat,  213 

Winter  wheat,   212 
Foamy  omelet,    116 
Fondant,  98 
Fondant,  uses  for,  99 
Fondant  cakes,  99,  257 
Fondue,  cheese,   128 
Food  preservation,  54 
Fowl,  see  poultry,  170 
Franconia  potatoes,  31 
Frappe — see  frozen  dishes 
French  fried  potatoes,  31 
French  dressing,  233 
French  toast,  223 
Fricaseed   chicken,    174 
Fricaseed  oysters,  185 
Fried  egg  plant,  23 
Fried  fish,  180 
Fried  onions,  26 
Fried  oysters,  185 
Fried  sweet  potatoes,  36 
Fried  tomatoes,  39 
Fritters,  207 

Apple  fritters,  208 

Fritter  batter,  207 

Queen  fritters,  208 
Frosting  for  chocolate  eclairs,  271 
Frostings — see  cake  frostings 
Frozen  dishes,  291 

Dangers  from  eating,  295 


General  rules  for  freezing,  293 

Kinds  of,  295 

Methods  of  preparing,  293 

Principles  of  freezing,  292 

Purposes  of  freezing,  292 

Value  of,  292 
Recipes 

Caramel  ice  cream,  296 

Chocolate  ice  cream,  296 

Coffee  ice  cream,  296 

Cranberry  sherbet,  299 

Frozen  fruit,  297 

Frozen  peaches,   298 

Fruit  ice  cream,  297 

Fruit  water  ice,  297 

Grape  frappe,  298 

Lemon  sherbet,  298 

Milk  sherbet,  297 

Mixed  fruit  ice,  297 

Orange  ice,  297 

Peach  ice,  298 

Rhubarb  sherbet,  298 

Vanilla  ice  cream,  296 

White  grape  sherbet,  299 
Frozen  fruit,  297 
Frozen  fruit  salad,  242 
Frozen  peaches,  298 
Fruit  beverages,  9 
Fruit  cookies,  256 
Fruit,  canning  of,  77 
Fruit  cocktail,   53 
Fruit  cup — see  fruit  cocktail 
Fruit  drink,   11 
Fruit  ice,  mixed,  297 
Fruit  ice  cream,  297 
Fruit  jelly,  285 
Fruit  juice,  canned  for  jelly 

making,   84 
Fruit  juices  for  beverages,  94 

See  also  lemonade,   10 
Fruit  punch,   11 
Fruit  pudding 

Cottage,    280 
Steamed  with  pork,  282 
Steamed  with  suet,  282 
Fruit  salad,  241 

Fruit  sauce  thickened  with  flour,   290 
Fruit  sauce  with  egg,   289 
Fruit  short  cake,  279 
Fruit  water  ice,   297 
Fruits,   50 
Fruits,   canned,   78 


Fudge,   100 
Double,  98 
Maple,  100 

Garnishixgs,  228 
Gelatine  dishes,  284 
Gems — see  muffins 

Bran,  200 

Date  graham,  200 

Graham,   199 
Giblet  gravy  for  roast  duck,   177 
Ginger  cookies,  255 
Ginger  drop   cakes,  256 
Ginger  bread,  250 
Glazed  sweet  potatoes,  36 
Gold  cake,  247 
Goose,  roast,   177 
Gooseberries,   canned,   79 
Gooseberries,  spiced,  92 
Graham  bread 

Quick,  202 

Soft,  217 
Graham  flour,  213 
Graham  gems,  199 
Graham  gems  with  dates,  200 
Graham  popovers,  195 
Graham  pudding,   283 
Grape  frappe,  298 
Grape  fruit  juice,  11 
Grape  fruit  marmalade,   89 
Grape  jam,  89 
Grape  jelly,  £6 
Grape  juice,  94 
Grape  juice  punch,  11 
Grape  sherbet,  white,  299 
Grapefruit  marmalade,  89 
Gravy,  brown,  155 
Gravy  for  boiled  meat,    156 
Gravy,  giblet,  for  roast  duck,  177 
Green  beans,   15 
Green  Lima  beans,  15 
Green  pea  soup,  134 
Green  tomato  mince  meat,  89 
Green  tomato  pickle,    71 
Greens,   canned,  65 
Greens,  mustard,  25 
Griddle  cakes,  204 

Baking,    205 

Batter,     204 

Griddle,   204 

Serving,   205 


Recipes,  205 
Bread  griddle  cakes,  206 
Buckwheat  cakes,  206 
Corn  meal  griddle  cakes,  205 
Plain  griddle  cakes,  205 
Sour  milk  griddle  cakes,  206 
Gumbo  soup,  139 

Ham,  boiled,   161 
Ham  puff,   169 
Hamburg  steak,   156 
Hard  cooked  eggs,   113 
Hard  sauce,  289 
Hard  wheat  flour,  212 
Hash,   browned,   168 
Hash  on  toast,  169 
Heart,  baked,  161 
Heart,  boiled,  161 
Hickory  nut  tarts,  270 
Hollandaise  sauce,  47 
Hominy  grits,   106 
Hominy  grits,   baked,   106 
Hopping  John,  28 
Horseradish   salad,   236 
Hot  cross  buns,  198 
Hot  sandwiches,  226 
Hubbard  squash,  38 

Ice  cream — see  frozen  dishes 

Iced  tea,   8 

Ices — see  frozen  dishes 

Ideal  cookies,   254 

Indian   pudding,   281 

Intermittent  method  of  canning,   56 

Jams,  87 

Grape,  89 
Peach,  90 
Strawberry,   92 

Jellied  cabbage  salad,  240 
Jelly,  to  make,  84 
Recipes 

Apple,    84 

Blackberry,   85 

Crabapple,  85 

Currant,  85 

Dewberry,  85 

Grape,  86 

Loganberry,   86 

Plum,  86 

Quince,  87 


Jelly  roll,  249 
Julienne   soup,   138 
Junket,  121 

Kale,  24 

Boiled  with  pork,  24 

Minced,  24 
Ketchup,  tomato,  15 
Kidney  stew,   162 
Kisses — see  meringues 
Kohl  rabi,  24 

Boiled,  24 

Lady  fingers,  256 

Lemonade,  10 

Lemon  jelly,  284 

Lemon  pie,  266 

Lemon  sauce,  289 

Lemon  sherbet,   298 

Lemon  tapioca  pudding,  278 

Lettuce,  25 

Lettuce  salad,  235 

Lima  beans,  15 

Lima  beans,  canned,  65 

Liver,   16 

To  cook,   164 
Loaf, 

Beef,   156 

Veal,    156 
Loganberry  jelly,   86 

Macaroni  and  cheese,  127 
Maple  frosting,  261 
Maple  fudge,  100 
Marguerites,    257 
Marmalades,  87 

Apricot,    87 

Grape  fruit,  89 

Orange,   89 

Pineapple,   90 
Marshmallow  fancy,  287 
Mashed   parsnips,   28 
Mashed  potatoes  (sweet),  36 
Mashed  potatoes  (white),  31 
Mashed   turnips,    41 
Mayonnaise,  234 

Mayonnaise   cooked  with  oil,   234 
Mayonnaise,  mock,  234 
Measurements,   table  of,  5 
Meat  croquettes,   175 
Meat  pie,  159,  269 
Meat  sandwiches,  226 
Meat  soups(see  soups),  135 


Meats,   142 

Cooking  of,  153 
Boiling,  156 
Broiling,   154 
Canned,  76 
Pan-broiling,   155 
Roasting,  155 

Rules  for  cooking  over,  167 
Time  for,  155 

Tender  cuts  of  meat,  to  cook,   153 
Tough  cuts  of  meat,  to  cook,  153 
Kinds 
Beef,  143 

Cuts  of,  144 

Four-quarter,   145 

Hind-quarter,    146 

Tests  for  good,  143 
Mutton,  150 

Cuts  of,  150 
Pork,   152 
Veal,  148 
Recipes, 
Bacon,  to  cook,  164 
Baked  heart,  161 
Beef  loaf,  156 
Beef  stew,   157 
Boiled  heart,  161 
Boiled  meat,  156 
Broiling,   154 
Browned  hash,  168 
Calves'   brains,  167 
Casserole  of  rice  and  meat,   169 
Corned  beef,  161 
Creamed  chipped  beef,   163 
Creamed  sweet  breads,   167 
Flank  steak,  stuffed,  158 
Ham,  boiled,  161 
Ham   puffs,    169 
Hamburg  steak,  156 
Hash  on  toast,  169 
Heart,   baked,   161 
Heart,   boiled,   161 
Kidney  stew,   162 
Liver,  to  cook,  164 
Meat  croquettes— see  chicken 

croquettes. 
Meat  pie,  159 

Mince  meat,   green  tomato,  89 
Mutton,   boiled,  161 
Mutton,  curry  of,  160 
Mutton,  ragout  of,  160 


Pan-broiling,    155 

Roasting,   155 

Pot  roast,   157 

Rolled   steak— see   stuffed   steak 

Round  steak,    stuffed,   158 

Scalloped   meat,    168 

Skirt  steak,  stuffed,  158 

Stuffed  steak,    158 

Sweet  breads,  165 
To  Cook,   166 

Tongue,    boiled,    161 

Tongue,   braized,   162 

Veal  cutlets,   breaded,   159 

Veal   loaf,    156 

Veal,  roast,  158 

Veal  stew,  157 
Medium  white  sauce,  45 
Meringues,  257 
Mexican  salad,  238 
Milk,   119 

Cooking  of,  120 

Pasteurized,   121 

Sterilized,    121 
Milk   sherbet,   297 
Milk  toast,  222 
Minced  kale,  24 
Mint  jelly  salad,  240 
Mint  sauce  for  lamb,  47 
Mixed  fruit  ice,  297 
Mocha  frosting,  259 
Mock  mayonnaise  salad   dressing,   234 
Mock  sponge  cake,  248 
Molasses  candy,   100 
Molasses  sauce,  291 
Muffins,  199 

Com,  199 

English,  219 

Rolled  oats,  200 

Wheat,   199 

Whole  wheat,  199 

See  also,  gems 
Mushrooms,  41 

Creamed,  42 

Stewed,  42 

To  prepare  canned  mushrooms,  41 

To   prepare    fresh   mushrooms,    41 
Mustard  for  ham  and  other  meat,  47 
Mustard  greens,  25 
Mutton,   150 

Boiled,   161 

Curry  of,   160 

Ragout  of,   160 


Noodles,  195 

Noodles  and  cheese,   127 

Nougat,   100 

Nut  bread,  203 

Nut,  cheese  and,  sandwiches,  226 

Nut  sauce,  291 

Nut  wafers,  223 

Oatmeal,  coarse,  107 

Oatmeal  cookies,  255 

Oatmeal  muffins— see  rolled  oats 

Oats,  rolled,   107 

Okra,  25 

Boiled,  25 

Canned,  65 

Gumbo   soup,    139 
Okra  and  tomato  soup,  129 
Omelet  souffie,  116 
Omelets,   114 

Baked,   116 

Creamy,    115 

Foamy,  116 

French— see    creamy   omelet,    115 

Omelet   souffle,    116 

Spanish,   116 

Variations  of  the  omelet,   115 
Onions,  26 

Fried,  26 

Onion  souffle,  118 

Pickled,   72 

Scalloped,   26 

Stewed,  26 

Stuffed,   26 
Open  kettle  method  of  canning,  55 
Orangeade,   10 
Orange  Bavarian,   287 
Orange  filling,  260 
Orange  frosting,  260 
Orange   ice,   297 
Orange  jelly,  285 
Orange  marmalade,   89 
Orange  peel,  candied,  97 
Orange  pudding,  274 
Orange  sauce,  290 
Ornamental  frosting,   260 
Oyster  plant— see  salsify,  37 
Oyster  stew 

Plain,   140 

Thickened,   140 
Oysters,  183 
Purpose  of  cooking,   184 
Recipes  for,  185 


Broiled,    185 
Fricaseed,    185 
Fried,   185 
Scalloped,    185 
Stew,   plain,    140 
Stew,  thickened, 


140 


Pan  BROnrNTG  of  meat,  155 
Pan  cakes— see  griddle  cakes 
Parker  house  rolls,  218 
Parsnips,  27 

Boiled,  27 

Browned,  27 

Mashed,  27 
Pasteurized  milk,  121 
Pastry,   262 
Baking,   264 
Classes  of,  262 
General  rules,  262 
Ingredients,  262 
Requisites  in  making,  263 
Utensils  used  in  making,  263 
Recipes 

Apple  pie,   265 

Banana  pie,  267 

Butter  scotch  pie,  267 

Chocolate  pie,  268 

Cranberry  and  raisin  pie,   269 

Cream  pie,   266 

Custard   pie,   267 

Flaky  pastry,  265 

Hickory  nut  tarts,  270 

Lemon  pie,  266 

Meat  pie,  159,  269 

Peach  pie,  266 

Plain  paste,  265 

Pumpkin  pie,   268 

Rhubarb  pie,   266 

Rhubarb  and  raisin  pie,   269 

Squash  pie,  268 

Sweet  potato  pie,  268 

Tarts,   269 
Pea,  dried,  soup,   130 
Pea,  green,  soup,  134 
Peach  ice,  298 
Peach  jam,  90 
Peach  pie,  266 
Peaches,  canned,  80 
Peaches,   pickled,   73 
Peanut  brittle,  101 
Peanut  brttle  with  molasses,  101 
Peanut  cookies,  253 


Peanut  soup,  135 
Peanuts,  salted,  103 
Pear,   preserves,   91 
Pears,   canned,  81 
Pears,   pickled,   73 
Peas,'  28 

Boiled,  28 

Canned,  cold  pack  method,   66 

Canned,    intermittent   method,   67 

Cow,   boiled,   28 

Dried,   boiled,  28 

Hopping  John,  28 
Pecan  cake,  251 
Pectin,  81 

Peppermint  drops,   101 
Peppermint  drops  with  fondant,   99 
Peppers,  28 

Green,  28 

Stuffed,  29 

Stuffed  and   pickled,   75 
Percolated  coffee,  6 
Pickled  apples,   72 
Pickled  beets,  72 
Pickled  onions,    72 
Pickled  peaches,  73 
Pickled  pears,   73 
Pickles,   69 

Pickles,  cucumber,  73 
Pickles,   watermelon  rind,   76 
Pies— see  pastry 

Pimento,  cheese  and,  salad,  238 
Pineapple  marmalade,  90 
Pineapple  preserves,  91 
Pineapple  salad,  242 
Pineapple  snow  pudding,  286 
Pineapple  tapioca  pudding,   278 
Pinoche,   102 
Pin  wheel  biscuits,  197 
Plain  griddle  cakes,  205 
Plain  pastry,  265 
Planked  fish,  180 
Plum  butter,  91 
Plum  jelly,  86 
Plum  preserves,  86 
Plums,  canned,  cold  pack,  81 
Plums,  canned,  open  kettle,  81 
Poached  eggs,   113 
Pop-corn  balls,   102 
Pop-overs,  194 
Pop-overs,  graham,  195 
Pork,    152 
Pork,   boiled  cabbage  with,  18 


Pork,   boiled  kale  \vith,   24 

Pork,   canned,   76 

Pot  roast  of  beef,  157 

Potato  cakes,  32 

Potato  salad,   234 

Potato  soup,  132 

Potato  stuffing  for  roast  duck,   177 

Potatoes,  29 

Potatoes,  sweet,  35 

Baked,   35 

Boiled,  36 

Canned,  68 

Croquettes,   36 

Fried,   36 

Glazed,   36 

Mashed,   36 

Pie,  268 
Potatoes,  White 

Baked,   30 

Baked  in  the  half  shell,  32 

Boiled,    30 

Chips,   Saratoga,   35 

Creamed,  30 

Creamed  and  baked,  30 

Franconia,  31 

French  fried,  31 

Hashed  brown — see  hoUandaise 

Hollandaise,  31 

Mashed,  31 

Potato  cakes,  32 

Potato   croquettes,   33 

Potato  croquettes  with  cheese,   33 

Potato  puff,  34 

Potato  souffle — see  potato  puff 

Potatoes  au  gratin,  32 

Potatoes  O'Brien,  34 
Potato  roses  for  garnishing,  33 

Riced,  34 

Saratoga  chips,  35 

Scalloped,  35 

Scalloped  with  eggs,  35 

Scalloped  with  white  sauce,  35 
Poultry,    170 
Cuts  of  fowl,   174 
To  carve,  172 
To  cut  up,  173 
To  dress  and  clean,  171 
Recipes  for  chicken 

Chicken  croquettes,   175 

Chicken  souffle,    118 

Creamed  chicken,  175 

Creamed   chicken,    baked,    176 


Fricassee  chicken,   174 

Roast  fowl,    171 

Stuffing  for  roast  fowl,   172 

Stewed  fowl,    174 
Recipes  for  duck,    176 

Giblet  gravy  for  roast  duck,   177 

Potato  stuffing  for  roast  duck,  177 

Roast  duck,    176 
Recipes  for  goose,   177 
Pound  cake,   247 
Preservation  of  foods,  54 
Preserves,    87 

Fig,  88 

Pear,   91 

Plum,   86 

Pineapple,   91 

Quince,  91 

Sun-preserves,  92 

Yellow  tomato,  93 
Processes  of  bread  making— see  breads 
Prune  souffle,  276 
Prune  tapioca  pudding,  278 
Prune  whip,   287 
Prunes,  spiced,  74 
Prunes,   stewed,   52 
Pudding  sauces— see  sweet  sauces 
Puddings — see  desserts 
Puffed  rice  balls,  102 
Puff,  ham,  169 
Puff  pudding,  277 
Pulled  bread,   22 
Pulled  candy,    103 

See  also  molasses  candy,   100 
Pumpkin  pie,  268 
Punch,  fruit,  11 
Punch,   grape  juice,   11 

Queen  fritters,  208 
Queen  of  puddings,   275 
Quick   breads — see   breads 
Quick  coffee  bread,   203 
Quick  graham  bread,  202 
Quince  jelly,   87 
Quince  preserves,   91 

Radishes,  37 

Ragout  of  mutton,   160 

Raised   doughnuts,   271 

Raisin  bread,   203 

Raisin,   cranberry  and,   pie,   269 

Raisin,   rhubarb    and,   pie,   269 

Raisins,  to  prepare,  281 


Raspberries,   sun-preserved,  92 
Raspberry  shrub,   94 
Relish,   Dixie,   71 
Relish,  salad,  236 
Relish,  tomato,  75 
Relishes,  69 
Rennet,  121 
Rhubarb,  52 

Baked,  52 

Canned,  81 

Pie,  266 

Pie  (and  raisin),  269 

Sauce,  52 

Scalloped,   275 

Sherbet,   298 

Steamed,    52 
Rice 

Boiled,    107 

Cream,  125 

Cream  of  rice  soup,  138 

Croquettes,   108 

Croquettes   with    syrup,    109 

Pudding,    108 

Savory,    108 

Scalloped,    109 

Steamed,  108 
Rice  and  meat,  casserole  of,  168 
Rice  and  salmon,  casserole  of,   183 
Rice   cream,    125 
Rice   pudding,    108 
Riced   potatoes,    34 
Roast  duck,   176 
Roast  fowl,   171 
Roast,  pot,   157 
Roast  veal,  158 
Roasting  of  meat,   155 
Rolled   cinnamon   buns,   221 
Rolled  oats,  107 
Rolled  oats  muffins,  200 
Rolls,  corn  meal,  201 
Rolls,   finger,   219 
Rolls,   luncheon,  219 
Rolls,  parker  house,  218 
Ragout  of  mutton,   160 
Round  steak,  147 

Stuffed,   158 
Roux,  44 
Rye  bread,  218 

Salad  dressings,  230 

Cooked  mayonnaise  with  oil,   233 
Cooked  salad  dressing,  233 


Cream  salad  dressing,  233 

French   dressing,   233 

IMayonnaise,  233 

Mock  mayonnaise,  233 
Salads,   230 
Accompaniments  for,  232 
Classes,  230 
Combinations  for,  231 
Garnishes  for,  232 
Preparation   of   salad  materials,   231 
Seasonings  for,  232 
Serving  of,   232 
To  marinate,   231 
Value  of,  232 
Recipes 

Apple  salad,  241 

Celery  and  cabbage  salad,  236 

Cheese  and  pimento  salad,  238 

Chicken  salad,  239 

Cole  slaw,  235 

Cucumber  jelly  salad,  240 

Cucumber  and  radish  salad,  235 

Egg  salad,   238 

Frozen  fruit  salad,  242 

Fruit  salad,  241 

Horseradish   salad,   236 

Jellied    cabbage    salad,    240 

Lettuce  salad,  235 

Mexican   salad,   238 

Mint  jelly  salad,   240 

Pineapple  salad,  242 

Potato  salad,  237 

Relish,   236 

Stuffed  eggs,  238 

Tomato   salad,   235 

Tomato  and  celery  salad,  235 

Tomato  jelly  salad,  239 

A'egetable    salad,    237 
Salmon,  casserole  of  rice  and,  183 

Croquettes,    183 

Loaf,    182 

Scalloped,    183 
Salsify,  37 

Boiled,    37 

Creamed,  37 

Fritters,   37 
Salted    almonds,    102 
Salted  peanuts,  103 
Sandwiches,  224 

Accompaniments  to  serve  with,  225 

Bread   for,    224 

Economy  in  making,  225 


Fillings  for,   225 

Cheese  and  nuts,  226 

Egg,  226 

Fish,   226 

Flavored    butter,    226 

Hot,   226 

Meat,  225 

Sweet  fillings,  226 

Vegetable,  226 
Keeping,  225 
Serving,   225 
Shape  of,  224 
Slicing,  224 
Spreading,    225 
Saratoga  chips,  35 
Sauce,   apple,   51 
Sauces,  savory,  44 

Brown  gravy,  155,  162 

Brown  sauce,  46 

Caper  sauce,  46 

Drawn  butter  for  fish,  47 

Drawn  butter  for  vegetables,  46 

Gravy,  156 

Hollandaise,  47 

Mint  s^uce  for  Iamb,  47 

Mustard  for  ham,  47 

Parsley  butter,  48 

Sauce  for  cutlets,   159 

Table  showing  variations,  44 

Tartare,  48 

Tomato  puree,  48 

Tomato  sauce,  48 

White,  45, 

Medium,  45 

Thick,    46 

Thin,   45 
Sauces,   sweet 

Caramel  syrup,  97 

Chocolate   290 

Cream,   289 

Cream,   291 

Custard,    286 

Egg,  290 

Fruit  sauce  with  egg,  289 

Fruit  sauce  thickened  with 

flour,   290 
Hard,    289 
Lemon,  289 
Molasses,  291 
Nut,   291 
Orange,  290 
Vanilla,  289 


Sauer  kraut,  directions  for  making.  66 

Directions  for  serving,    18 
Sauer  kraut  with  fresh  pork,  18 
Savory  rice,  108 
Savory  sauces,  44 
Scalloped  dishes,  227 

Apples,  274 

Asparagus,   17 

Cabbage,   17 

Carrots,    17 

Cauliflower,   17 

Corn,   22 

Egg  plant,  23 

Fish,    181 

Meat,    168 

Oysters,    186 

Potatoes  with  eggs,  35 

Potatoes,  with  white  sauce,  35 

Rhubarb,    275 

Rice,    109 

Salmon,    183 

Tomatoes,  40 
Scones,  198 
Scotch  broth,  139 
Scrambled  eggs,    113 
Sherbet— see  frozen  dishes 
Shirred  eggs,   113 
Short  cake 

Fruit,    279 

Strawberry,  279 
Shrub 

Blackberry,  94 

Dewberry,   94 

Raspberry,  94 

Strawberry,  94 
Sippets,   222 
Skirt  steak,   146 

Stuffed,   158 
Sliced  cucumber  pickles,   73 
Snow  balls,  283 
Snow  pudding,   285 
Soda  biscuits,    197 
Soft  cooked  eggs,  112 
Soft  custard,    124 
Soft  graham  bread,  217 
Soft  wheat  flour,  212 
Souffles,  117 

Cheese,   118 

Chicken,  118 

Fish,   118 

Omelet,   116 

Onion,  118 


Prune,  276 

Soup    sticks,    222 

Soups,   129 
Cream   soups,   131 
Com  chowder,   133 
Cream  of  carrot  soup,  134 
Cream  of  celery  soup,   132 
Cream  of  corn  soup,   133 
Cream  of  onion  soup,  134 
Cream  of  potato  soup,  133 
Cream  of  rice  soup  with 

stock,   138 
Cream  of  tomato  soup,  132 
Green  pea  soup,   134 
Peanut  soup,  135 
Potato  soup,  132 
Fish  soups,   140 
Clam  puree,   141 
Fish  chowder,   140 
Oyster  stew,  plain,  140 
Oyster  stew,  thickened,  140 
Meat  soups,   135 
Beef  stock,  137 
Bouillon,   138 
Brown  stock,  137 
Cream  of  rice,  138 
Gumbo,   139 
Julienne,   138 

Rules  in  making  stock,   136 
Scotch  broth,   139 
To  clear  soup  or  stock,  137 
Vegetable  soup,  138 
White   stock,    137 
Vegetable  soups,  129 
Black  bean  soup,   130 
Dried  bean  soup,  130 
Dried  pea  soup,   130 
Okra  and  tomato  soup,   129 
Vegetable  soup  without  meat 
stock,   129 

Sour  milk  griddle  cakes,  206 

Spanish   omelet,    117 

Spice  cake  with  eggs,  250 

Spiced  eggless  cake  No.  1,  246 

Spiced  eggless  cake  No.  2,  247 

Spiced  gooseberries,   92 

Spiced   pears,   74 

Spiced  prunes,   74 

Spinach,  38 

Sponge  cake,  248 

Sponge  cakes,  243 

Spoon  com  bread,  201 


Spring  wheat  flour,  212  , 
Squash,   38 

Baked,   38 

Crooked  neck,  38 

Cushaw,  38 

Cymbeline,    38 

Hubbard,  38 

Pie,    268 

Steamed,  38 

Summer,    38 

Winter,  38 
Stale   bread,   uses  for,   221 
Steamed  apples,  50 
Steamed  brown  bread,  202 
Steamed  cranberry  pudding,  284 
Steamed  custards,   123 
Steamed  fruit  pudding  with  pork,  282 
Steamed  fruit  pudding  with  suet,  282 
Steamed  mixtures,  281 
Steamed  rhubarb,   52 
Steamed  rice,  108 
Steamed  squash,  38 
Sterilization,   57 
Sterilized  milk,  121 
Sterilizing,   directions  for,  $1 
Sterilizing  cans  and  jars,  61 
Stew 

Beef,  157 

Kidney,  162 

Veal,  157 
Stock,  soup,  135-137 

Beef,    137 

Brown,   137 

To  clear,   137 

White,    137 
Strawberries,  canned,  81 
Strawberries,   sun-preserved,   92 
Strawberryade,    10 
Strawberry  jam,   92 
Strawberry  short  cake,   279 
Strawberry  shrub,  94 
String  beans,  15 

Canned,  cold  pack  method,  67 

Canned,    intermittent   method,    67 
Stuffed  dates,  99 
Stuffed  eggs,  238 
Stuffed  flank  steak,  158 
Stuffed  onions,  27 
Stuffed  peppers,  29 
Stuffed  peppers,  pickled,   75 
Stuffed  round  steak,   158 
Stuffed  skirt  steak,   158 


Stuffed  tomatoes,  41 
Stuffing  for  fish,  ISO 
Stuffing  for  roast  fowl,   172 
Suet,  to  prepare  for  batters,  2S2 
Sugar,  cooking  of,  95 
Sugar  in  candies,  95 
Sugar,  in  canned  fruits,  78 
Sugar,   in  jelly  making,  82 
Sugar  substitutes  in   canning,    78 
Summer  squash,  38 
Sun-preserved  berries,  92 
Sunshine  cake,  250 
Swedish  timbales,  209 
Sweetbreads,   164 

Creamed,    167 

To  cook,  160 
Sweet  fillings  for  sandwiches,  226 
Sweet  potato  pie,  268 
Sweet  potatoes— see  potatoes 
Sweet  potatoes,  canned,  68 
Swiss  chard,  38 
Syrup,  caramel,  97 
Syrap  tests,  96 

Time  for  cooking,  96 

T.APIOCA   AXD    CORN    MEAL    PUDDING,    278 

Tapioca  cream,  125 

Tapioca  puddings— see  desserts 

Tartare  sauce,  48 

Tarts,   269 

Tarts,  hickory  nut,  270 

Tea,  7-8 

Tea,  iced,  8 

Tea  cakes — see  yellow  cake  No.  2 

Tests  for  good  beef,  143 

Tests  for  temperature  in  frying,  188 

Tests,  syrup,  96 

Thin  white  sauce,  45 

Timbales,   208 

Timbales,   Swedish,   209 

Time  table  for  canning  fruits,  78 

Time  table  for  canning  vegetables,  62 

Time  table  for  cooking  vegetables   in 

water,    14 
Time  table  for  frying,  189 
Time  table  for  roasting  of  meat,   155 
Toast,  222 

Creamed,  223 

French,  223 

Milk,  222 

Toast,   dry,  222 
Toasted  crackers  and  cheese,  224 


Tomato  and  celery  salad,  235 
Tomato  jelly  salad,  239 
Tomato  ketchup,  75 
Tomato  mince  meat,  89 
Tomato  pickles,   green,   71 
Tomato  puree,  48 
Tomato  relish,  75 
Tomato  salad,  235 
Tomato  sauce,   48 
Tomato,  yellow  preserves,  93 
Tomatoes,   39 

Canned,  cold-pack  method,  68 

Canned,  open-kettle  method,  68 

Fried,  39 

Scalloped,   40 

Stewed,  40 

Stuffed,  41 
Tongue, 

Boiled,   161 

Braized,    162 
Turnips,  41 

Creamed,  41 

Mashed,  41 

Vanilla  corn   starch  pudding,  273 

Vanilla   ice   cream,   296 

Vanilla  sauce,  289 

Veal,  148 

Veal  cutlets,   breaded,   159 

Veal  loaf,   156 

Veal,  roast,  158 

Veal  stew,  157 

Vegetable   oyster— see   salsify 

Vegetable  salad,  237 

Vegetable  sandwiches,  226 

Vegetable  soup  (with  meat  stock)   138 

Vegetable  soup(wthout  meat 

stock)129 
Vegetables,  12 

Canning  of— see  preservation 

Cooking  of,   12 

General  directions  for  cooking 
in  water,   12 

Recipes  for,  14 

Time  table  for  cooking  in 
water,  14 

Time  table  for  canning,  62 
Velvet  pudding,  274 

W.ATERS,   NUT,   223 

Waffles,   207 
Baking,   207 
Batter,   207 


Recipes  for,  207 

Serving,   207 

Waffle  iron,  207 
Washington  pie,   248 
Water  frosting,  259 
Water  melon  pickles,  76 
Water  melon  rind  preserves,  93 
Water  sponge  cake,  248 
Welsh  rabbit,  126 
Wheat,    cracked,    107 
Wheat  flour,   212 
Wheatena,   109 
Wheatlet,    109 
White  cake  No.   1,  246 
White  cake  No.  2,  246 
White  cake  without  eggs,  246 
White  flour  bread,  216 
White  grape  sherbet,  299 
White  pulled  candy,    103 
White  sauce,  44 

Medium,  45 

Thick,  46 

Thin,    45 


White  sponge  cake,  249 
White  stock,  137 
Whole  wheat  bread,  217 
Whole  wheat  flour,  213 
Whole  wheat  muffins,  199 
Winter  squash,  38 
Winter  wheat  flour,  212 

Yeast,  210 

Action  of,  210 

Commercial,  211 

Conditions  of  growth,   210 

Liquid,   212 

Preparation  of,  211 
Yellow  cake  No.  1,  245 
Yellow  cake  No.  2,  245 
Yellow  tomato  preserves,   92 


Zwieback,  222 


§M^:^Mmi^mMf^M^^^ 


