- 
o  v 


^0« 


*\5»fc>< 


*  **v%   • 


<*> 


o.     ».,, 


*°o 


<►    *<7C 


^c? 


.  *  *      A 


•      5**^ 


^rt<"  !>'£af&&\    *„<?  •j^8a>  **^ 


^0* 


*bV" 


«*<fc 


/.k\Wa> 


*+t>      Av 


r.  *«*  c^  .>W/>^  **  .*♦ 


*0** 


«5  <3> 


^^ 


**    %, 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

More  than  one  hundred  recipes  suitable  for  the 

tables  of  rich  and  poor  alike,  showing  how 

to  prepare  economical  and  nutricious 

dishes  from  the  "noble  tuber" 


By 

MRS.  MARY  L.  WADE 

Author  of  "The  Book  of  Corn  Cookery  " 


CHICAGO 

A.  C.  McCLURG  &  CO. 

1918 


^* 


Copyright 
A.  C.  McCLURG  &  CC. 

1918 


Published  November,    1918 


DEC  -9  18/8 


W.  F.  HALL  PRINTING  COMPANY,  pXfOAGO 

■r  0/ 

©CI.A5U8434 


~> 


DEDICATION 


Dedicated  to  those  women  patriots  who  are  helping 
win  the  war,  not  with  blare  of  trumpets,  or  in  the  light 
of  publicity,  but  in  their  own  homes,  where  by  careful 
planning,  and  with  much  sacrifice  of  time  and  strength, 
they  are  giving  their  families  varied  and  nourishing 
food,  and  at  the  same  time  are  conserving  the  precious 
foodstuffs  for  our  soldiers  and  allies  "over  there. " 
If  this  book  proves  a  help  to  such  women,  the  author 
has  accomplished  her  purpose. 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER  PAGE 

I  The  Potato:    Its  Story  and  Importance     ...  I 

II  Potatoes:     Boiled,  Mashed,  Baked,  Fried,  etc.     .  9 

III  Biscuits,  Muffins,  etc 35 

IV  Sweet  Potatoes     . 45 

V     Potatoes  with  Meat  and  Fish 51 

VI     Soups  and  Chowders 63 

VII     Salads 71 

VIII     Puddings  and  Cakes .,     .      .  79 


THE  POTATO :  ITS  STORY  AND 
IMPORTANCE 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 


CHAPTER  I 

THE  POTATO :  ITS  STORY  AND  IMPORTANCE 

There  is  no  plant  grown  (excepting  wheat)  so  im- 
portant as  the  potato  in  the  dietary  of  the  nations  at 
wrar.  The  potato  so  far  surpasses  all  other  tubers  and 
roots  in  importance  that  its  composition  and  nutritive 
value  have  been  carefully  studied  both  in  this  country 
and  in  Europe.  It  is  a  native  of  the  elevated  tropical 
valleys  of  Chile,  Peru,  and  Mexico;  and  was  carried 
to  Spain  from  Peru  early  in  the  sixteenth  century,  in- 
troduced into  Virginia  from  Florida  by  Spanish 
explorers,  and  into  Great  Britain  from  Virginia  by 
Sir  John  Hawkins  in  1565.  Since  that  time  it  has 
become  a  staple  article  of  food  throughout  all  Europe 
and  the  Americas,  so  commonly  and  universally  used 
that  it  is  to  be  found  on  the  tables  of  rich  and  poor 
alike. 

The  potato  is  noteworthy  for  its  extraordinary  pro- 
ductiveness,  far  exceeding  that  of  almost  any  other 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

food  product  grown,  an  equal  amount  of  ground  yield- 
ing approximately  thirty  times  greater  weight  of  pota- 
toes than  of  wheat.  It  is  grown  in  all  parts  of  the 
United  States,  but  most  abundantly  in  the  North 
Atlantic  and  North  Central  States.  New  York, 
Maine,  Michigan,  and  Wisconsin  are  the  greatest  po- 
tato states,  each  producing  annually  more  than  twenty 
million  bushels. 

FOOD   VALUE 

The  bulk  of  the  carbohydrates  which  the  potato 
stores  for  future  use  is  in  the  form  of  starch  which,  of 
course,  is  insoluble  in  cold  water,  and  small  quantities 
of  dextrine  sugar,  etc.,  which  are  soluble.  In  young 
tubers  there  is  a  larger  proportion  of  sugar  and  less 
starch  than  when  they  become  mature.  When  it  be- 
gins to  sprout  part  of  the  starch  is  converted  by  a 
ferment  into  soluble  glucose  Fat  appears  in  such 
small  amounts  that  it  need  not  be  taken  into  account 
The  protein  bodies  are  rather  scant.  The  most  im 
portant  mineral  matters  found  in  potatoes  are  potas 
and  phosphoric  acid  compounds.  As  ordinarily  pur- 
chased 4.5  pounds  of  raw  potatoes  and  1  pound  of  un- 
cooked rice  contain  equal  weights  of  each  class  of 
nutrients  and  have  about  the  same  nutritive  value. 


h 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

In  the  ordinary  American  dietary,  potatoes  repre- 
sent 3.9  per  cent  of  the  total  cost  of  food,  and  furnish 
5.3  per  cent  of  the  total  calories,  4.2  per  cent  of  the 
total  protein,  and  8.7  per  cent  of  the  total  phosphorous 
and  iron  compounds.  As  phosphorous  and  iron  com- 
pounds are  of  as  much  importance  in  the  dietary  as 
protein  and  fuel  foods,  it  is  evident  that  a  generous 
supply  of  nutrients  is  obtained  for  a  small  percentage 
of  money  expended  for  potatoes. 

Although  the  percentage  of  ash  constituents  in  foods 
is  small,  the  part  they  play  in  constructing  tissue  and 
in  keeping  the  body  in  good  working  order  is  not  a 
small  one. 

Phosphorous  is  essential  in  building  tissue  and  in 
stimulating  growth;  iron  is  necessary  in  the  making  of 
red  blood  cells  and  other  tissues.  Calcium  is  needed 
in  building  bones  and  teeth.  Vegetables  furnish  iron 
in  larger  proportions  than  do  most  animal  foods.  In 
the  mineral  content  of  potatoes  are  moderate  amounts 
of  the  necessary  compounds  of  phosphorous  and  cal- 
cium, a  relatively  high  percentage  of  iron  and  a  very 
high  percentage  of  the  base  yielding  potassium. 

It  is  estimated  that  there  are  enough  basic  com- 
pounds in  one  medium-sized  potato  to  neutralize  the 
acids  of  two   average  slices  of  roast  beef.     If  rice 

3 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 


should  be  substituted  in  such  a  meal  for  potatoes,  while 
the  rice  would  supply  the  necessary  starch,  it  would  not 
serve  to  counteract  the  acids  produced  by  the  meat  but 
would  rather  increase  them. 

Vitamine  is  the  name  given  to  a  property  or  con- 
stituent of  food  which  is  essential  to  life  —  and  pota- 
toes possess  this  property.  In  the  refining  process 
wheat  loses  this  vitamine  property  or  constituent; 
therefore  the  potato  is  especially  beneficial  in  a  dietary 
in  which  white  bread  is  used. 

MARKS   OF  THE   GOOD  POTATO 

In  point  of  flavor  the  early  varieties  and  young  pota- 
toes generally  are  preferable  to  more  mature  ones. 
They  usually  have  smoother  skins  than  older  ones. 
They  are  not  as  mealy  and  they  do  not  keep  as  well. 
Late  in  the  season  well-developed  tubers  are  safer. 
Very  large  ones  are  not  desirable  because  it  is  harder 
to  cook  them  evenly.  Smooth,  regularly  shaped  pota- 
toes with  comparatively  few  eyes  are  more  economical 
than  irregular  ones  which  cannot  be  pared  without 
much  waste.  Tubers  old  enough  to  sprout  begin  to 
develop  an  acrid  taste.  Watery  potatoes  are  always 
undesirable  because  they  become  soggy  in  cooking.  A 
good,  mealy  potato  should  feel  firm  when  pressed  in 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

the  hand.  If  cut  it  should  separate  crisply  under 
the  knife  and  be  of  even  density  throughout.  When 
potatoes  are  old  and  wrinkled  they  are  much  im- 
proved by  cutting  off  the  ends  or  by  paring  and  soak- 
ing in  cold  water  for  several  hours. 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  THE  PREPARATION  AND  COOKING  OF 

POTATOES 

The  proper  preparation  of  potatoes  should  never 
be  considered  of  secondary  importance,  even  if  re- 
garded from  a  purely  hygienic  standpoint  only.  The 
first  essential  to  be  observed  in  order  to  achieve  the 
best  results  is  scrupulous  cleanliness.  Special  care 
should  be  given  potatoes  when  cooked  in  their  "  jack- 
ets." They  should  be  thoroughly  scrubbed  with  a 
small  brush  and  then  rinsed. 

Baking  and  steaming  are  generally  thought  to  be 
the  best  ways  of  cooking  potatoes;  the  latter  method 
has  the  advantage  of  the  economy  of  fuel,  as  a  potato 
baked  in  a  slow  oven  is  inferior  to  one  properly  boiled. 
The  method  by  which  they  are  cooked  should  be  con- 
sidered not  only  for  its  effect  on  the  nutrition,  but  upon 
the  pocketbook. 

When  potatoes  are  pared  before  cooking,  the  loss 
is  estimated  at  about  twenty  per  cent,  as  the  larger 

5 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

proportion  of  the  protein  and  mineral  matter  is  in  the 
outer  layer,  and  the  skin  tends  to  hold  back  the  pro- 
tein, mineral  salts  and  starch.  If  the  skin  is  removed 
before  cooking  the  waste  of  total  substance  is  about 
twice  as  much  as  when  cooked  in  their  skins.  It  is 
wasteful  to  pare  potatoes  long  before  cooking  as  they 
must  be  covered  with  cold  water  in  order  to  keep 
them  from  turning  dark.  Potatoes  pared  and  soaked 
three  or  four  hours  lose  about  three  times  as  much 
of  their  mineral  matter  and  seven  times  as  much  of 
their  protein  as  those  that  are  pared  and  put  on  to 
cook  immediately.  Therefore  the  conclusion  is  that 
it  is  better  not  to  pare  potatoes  before  cooking,  and 
to  put  them  on  to  cook  in  boiling  water  so  as  to  retain 
all  their  nutritive  value.  As  potatoes  are  not  always 
perfect,  the  housewife  must  use  discretion  as  to  the 
advisability  of  removing  part,  or  all  of  the  skin  be- 
fore cooking. 

For  frying  in  deep  fat,  or  for  salads,  a  potato  high 
in  protein  and  low  in  starch  content  is  desirable;  but 
for  baking,  mashing,  and  such  purposes,  a  mealy  po- 
tato is  preferable. 


POTATOES:  BOILED,  MASHED,  BAKED, 
FRIED,  ETC. 


CHAPTER  II 

POTATOES:  BOILED,  MASHED,  BAKED,   FRIED,  ETC. 

Boiled  Potatoes 

Select  potatoes  as  nearly  the  same  size  as  possible. 
If  they  are  to  be  cooked  in  their  skins  scrub  them  and 
cut  a  narrow  band  of  skin  from  each  potato.  If  they 
are  to  be  pared,  remove  as  little  as  possible  of  the 
skin  with  a  sharp  knife  and  with  the  point  of  the  knife 
remove  the  eyes  and  any  imperfections.  Cover  with 
boiling  water.  Boil  for  fifteen  minutes  and  add  one 
tablespoon  salt  for  every  dozen  potatoes.  When  they 
can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork  they  are  done,  which 
will  be  from  twenty  to  thirty-five  minutes  according  to 
size.  Drain  off  every  drop  of  water.  If  not  to  be 
served  immediately  cover  with  a  clean  cloth,  but  never 
with  a  tight  cover. 


Mashed   Potatoes 

"When  boiled  potatoes  are  drained,  remove  skins,  mash 
with  wire  potato  masher  until  free  from  lumps.    Add 

9 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

tablespoon  butter  for  every  four  potatoes  and  enough 
hot  milk  to  moisten.  No  definite  amount  of  milk  can  be 
given  as  potatoes  vary  as  to  the  amount  they  will 
absorb.    Beat  light  and  serve  piled  lightly  in  a  hot  dish. 


Baked  Potatoes 

Select  potatoes  of  even  size  with  smooth  surface. 
Scrub  clean.  Put  into  a  hot  oven  and  bake  until  soft, 
about  forty  to  forty-five  minutes.  Test  to  see  if  they 
are  soft  by  squeezing  in  a  clean  holder.  If  the  skin 
breaks  easily  and  they  feel  soft  to  the  hand  they  are 
done.  Each  skin  should  be  broken  to  allow  the  steam 
to  escape.    They  should  be  served  at  once. 


Potato  Saute 

Wash,  pare,  and  cut  four  potatoes  in  quarter-inch 
slices.  Let  stand  in  cold  water  one-half  hour.  Drain. 
Put  two  tablespoons  of  oil  in  frying  pan.  When  hot 
put  in  potatoes.  Cover  closely.  Set  where  they  will 
cook  slowly,  and  cook  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Stir 
occasionally. 

10 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Potatoes  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel 

Cut  raw  potatoes  into  cubes  or  balls  with  a  French 
cutter  and  boil  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  in  salted  water. 
Drain.  Cream  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  one  tea- 
spoon lemon  juice,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth 
teaspoon  paprika,  two  teaspoons  chopped  parsley. 
Add  this  to  the  potatoes  and  serve. 


French  Fried  Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  the  potatoes.  If  small  cut  them  in 
eighths  lengthwise;  or  if  large  cut  in  half  crosswise, 
then  cut  in  pieces  a  quarter  of  an  inch  lengthwise.  Soak 
for  one  hour  in  cold  water.  Drain  and  wipe  dry.  Fry 
a  few  at  a  time  in  hot  fat  until  brown.  Drain  on  soft 
paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 


Hashed  Brown  Potatoes 

Two  cups  cold  boiled  or  baked  potatoes  chopped 
fine.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper.     Put  two  table- 

ii 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

spoons  fat  in  a  frying  pan.  When  hot  add  the  potato 
and  press  down  carefully  into  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 
Cook  slowly  (if  using  gas  stove  put  asbestos  mat  under 
the  pan)  until  potatoes  are  brown  on  the  bottom.  Roll 
over  carefully  and  turn  on  to  a  hot  platter.  Garnish 
with  water  cress  and  rings  of  pimento. 


Baked  Hashed  Brown  Potatoes 

2  large  potatoes  i  tablespoon  chopped  onion 

i  tablespoon    butter    or   mar-      I  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

garine  I  tablespoon  flour 

i  cup  milk  I  teaspoon  salt 

|  teaspoon  pepper 

Wash  and  pare  the  potatoes  and  cut  into  dice.  Melt 
the  butter;  blend  with  it  the  flour,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Add  the  milk  and  stir  until  it  boils.  Butter  a  baking 
dish.  Put  in  a  layer  of  potato.  Sprinkle  over  it  half 
of  the  onion  and  parsley,  then  the  remainder  of  the 
potato  and  onion  and  parsley.  Pour  the  sauce  over  it 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  soft. 
Cover  for  the  first  fifteen  minutes,  then  remove  cover 
and  brown. 

12 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 


Potatoes  Hashed  in  Cream 

Two  cups  cold  cooked  potatoes,  hashed.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  into  a  saucepan  with  one  cup 
thin  cream.  Place  where  it  will  heat  but  not  brown. 
Cook  until  cream  is  all  absorbed.  Add  one  teaspoon 
butter.     Shake  occasionally  while  cooking. 


Potato  Puffs 

i  cup   cold  boiled  potato  £  cup  cheese 

J  cup  barley  flour  \  cup  butter  or  margarine 

2  eggs  \  teaspoon  salt 

\  teaspoon  cayenne 

Either  grate  or  rub  through  a  strainer  the  potato 
(one  cupful  after  grating)  and  the  cheese.  Melt  the 
butter  and  when  it  is  bubbling  stir  the  flour  in  quickly 
and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  cleaves  from  the  side  of 
the  pan.  Remove  from  the  fire.  Cool  slightly.  Add 
the  unbeaten  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  thoroughly 
after  each  egg  is  added.  Add  cheese,  potato,  salt  and 
cayenne,  and  again  beat. 

Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  well  buttered  pan  and  bake 
for  half  an  hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

13 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Potato  Souffle 

2  cups  hot  mashed  potato  ^  cup  milk 

i  tablespoon  butter  \  teaspoon  salt 

\  teaspoon  pepper  2  eggs 

To  the  mashed  potato  add  all  the  ingredients  except 
the  whites  of  eggs,  and  beat  until  light.  Cool.  Beat 
the  whites  stiff  and  dry  and  fold  lightly  into  the  potato. 
Put  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  until  puffed 
up  and  brown.  Serve  at  once  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is 
baked.    If  liked  more  delicate,  omit  the  yolks. 


Curried  Potatoes 

6  cold  cooked  potatoes  (boiled  1  teaspoon  salt 

or  baked)  \  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  mar-  1  scant  teaspoon  curry  powder 

garine  -J  cup  stock  or  milk 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Melt  the  butter.  Add  onion.  Cook  two  or  three 
minutes,  but  do  not  brown.  Add  potatoes,  salt,  pepper 
and  curry  powder  and  mix  well  with  the  onion.  Add 
the  stock  or  milk  and  lemon  juice.  Stir  gently  with  a 
fork  until  all  the  liquid  is  absorbed.  Serve  sprinkled 
with  chopped  parsley. 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Potato  Scallop 

1  cup  cold  boiled  potato  cut     2  tablespoons  chopped  celery 

into  dice  I  tablespoon  chopped  onion 

2  tablespoons  chopped  carrot   (add  any  cooked  peas  or  string 

beans  which  you  may  have  on  hand) 
i  cup  strained  tomato  2  tablespoons  butter  or  mar- 

i  tablespoon  flour  garine 

sifted  bread  crumbs 

Melt  the  butter.  Cook  in  it  the  onion,  carrot,  and 
celery  for  two  or  three  minutes.  Add  the  flour.  Stir 
until  blended.  Add  the  tomato;  stir  until  it  boils. 
Grease  a  baking  dish.  Sprinkle  over  with  the  crumbs. 
Put  in  the  potatoes  and  other  vegetables.  Pour  the 
sauce  over  it.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake 
until  brown. 

Potato  Fricassee 

1  cup  cold  boiled  or  baked  po-     \  teaspoon  onion  juice 

tato  cut  into  dice                    I  cup  milk 

i  tablespoon  butter    or   mar-      i  tablespoon  cream 

garine  \  teaspoon  salt 

2  egg  yolks  \  teaspoon  pepper 

Melt  the  butter.  Add  the  milk,  potato  and  season- 
ings.    Heat  slowly.     Beat  the  egg  yolks  and  cream 

15 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

together.  Stir  into  the  potato.  When  thickened  re- 
move from  the  fire  at  once  and  pour  into  a  hot  serving 
dish.    Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley  and  serve  at  once. 


Potatoes  with  Chives 

4  medium  potatoes  2  tablespoons  butter  or  mar- 

\  cup  hot  milk  garine 

2  tablespoons  chopped  chives 

Wash,  pare  and  boil  potatoes.  Mash  them.  Add 
the  other  ingredients :  beat  until  light.  Turn  into  a  but- 
tered baking  dish;  leave  the  top  rough.  Dot  over  with 
pieces  of  butter  and  bake  until  golden  brown  in  a  hot 
oven. 


Potato  Hillocks 

2  cups  hot  mashed  potato  2  tablespoons  melted  butter  or 

2  tablespoons  hot  milk  margarine 

i  egg  \  teaspoon  salt 

a  few  grains  of  pepper 

Add  butter,  milk,  salt,  pepper  and  beaten  egg  to  the 
potato.    Shape  into  pyramids.    Place  on  a  greased  pan. 

16 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Baste  with  the  butter.  Brown  in  a  hot  oven.  Slip  oft* 
carefully  onto  a  hot  platter.  These  may  be  served  as  a 
garnish  around  meat  or  by  themselves  with  cheese 
sauce.  If  served  with  cheese  sauce  it  may  be  used  as  the 
main  dish  at  dinner  or  luncheon. 


Potato  Omelette 

I  medium  baked  potato  ^  teaspoon  salt 

J  teaspoon  lemon  juice      s  \  tablespoon    butter    or   mar- 

3  eggs  garine 

\  teaspoon  pepper 

Peel  the  potato  and  rub  through  a  fine  strainer.  Add 
the  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice.  Separate  the  eggs 
and  beat  both  whites  and  yolks  until  light.  Add  the 
yolks  to  the  potato  and  beat  well  together.  Fold  the 
whites  in  lightly.  Put  butter  in  frying  pan.  When 
bubbling  pour  in  the  omelet.  Cook  slowly  until  brown, 
about  eight  or  ten  minutes.  Turn  onto  a  hot  platter. 
An  omelet  is  best  cooked  if  placed  in  the  oven  for  the 
last  four  or  five  minutes.  If  not  put  in  the  oven,  slip 
an  asbestos  mat  under  the  pan,  reduce  the  heat,  and 
cover  the  omelet  that  length  of  time. 

17 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Kalecanon 

Chop  fine  equal  quantities  of  cold  cooked  potato  and 
cabbage.  Season  highly  with  salt,  mustard  and  cayenne. 
Put  some  fat  (meat  dripping  is  best)  into  a  frying  pan. 
When  hot  turn  in  the  mixture ;  cook  slowly  without  stir- 
ring until  heated  through. 


■ 


Delmonico  Potatoes 

2  cups  cold  boiled  potato,  cut      2  tablespoons    melted    butter 

fine  or  margarine 

I  teaspoon  salt  |  teaspoon  pepper 

I  cup  rich  milk 

Butter  a  shallow  baking  dish.  Put  in  the  seasoned 
potatoes.  Pour  over  the  milk  and  lastly  the  melted 
butter.  Brown  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Serve  in  the 
dish  in  which  they  are  cooked. 


Potatoes  and  Onions 

To  serve  with  sausage 

4  potatoes  boiled  in  their  skins      2  large  onions   (slice  and  let 
(peel  while  hot  and  slice  stand  in  salt  and  water  £ 

thin)  hour) 

18 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Melt  one  tablespoon  of  ham  or  bacon  fat  (or  other 
fat  will  do).  Add  the  onions  and  cook  until  slightly 
browned.  Add  the  potato.  Mix  lightly  with  a  fork. 
Add  one-half  cup  vinegar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and 
a  few  grains  of  cayenne,  and  cook  five  minutes. 


Potato  Pie 

2  cups  sliced  raw  potato  I  onion,  sliced 

1  stalk  celery,  sliced  2  tablespoons   butter   or   mar- 

2  tablespoons  tapioca  garine 

■|  cup  milk  \  teaspoon  salt 

\  cup  water 

Melt  the  butter  and  cook  the  onion  in  it,  but  do  not 
brown.  Add  the  water.  Butter  a  pudding  dish  and 
put  in  it  the  potatoes,  celery,  salt,  onion,  and  water. 
Sprinkle  the  tapioca  over.  Add  the  milk  and  cover 
with  the  following  paste : 

1  cup  hot  mashed  potato  4  tablespoons  of  shortening 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft 
\  teaspoon  salt  dough 

I  cup  corn  flour 

Bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

19 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Franconia  Potatoes  (Baked  with  Meat) 

Wash  and  pare  the  potatoes  and  cut  into  uniform 
size  (about  one  and  a  half  inch  cubes).  Parboil  five 
minutes.  Drain.  Put  into  the  roasting  pan  with  the 
meat  and  baste  often  with  the  fat  from  the  meat. 
Cook  forty  minutes. 


Potato  Chops 

4  medium  potatoes  or  enough  2  tablespoons  green  pepper 

to  make  2  cupfuls  2  tablespoons  carrot 

1  cup  hot  milk  \  tablespoon  onion 

3  tablespoons  tomato  pulp  1  egg  yolk 

3  tablespoons  sifted  crumbs  2  tablespoons   sherry,  or  Ma- 

3  tablespoons  butter  or  mar-  deira 

garine  \  teaspoon  mace 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  parsley 

cayenne 

Wash,  pare,  and  chop  the  potatoes  fine,  and  cook  in 
the  milk  until  soft  (use  care  that  they  do  not  burn). 
When  soft  add  the  butter.  Put  the  pepper,  carrot, 
onion,  and  parsley  through  the  food  chopper  and  stir 
into  the  potato.     Cook  a  few  moments  stirring  con- 

20 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

stantly.  Add  the  tomato  pulp,  salt,  cayenne,  mace,  and 
wine.  Cool.  Form  into  chops.  Roll  in  egg  and 
crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  or  roll  in  flour  and  melted  fat 
and  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Make  the  tomato  pulp  by  cooking  strained  tomato 
until  thick.  If  the  wine  is  objectionable  use  a  table- 
spoon of  lemon  juice  in  its  place. 


Potato  Bouchees 

I 

2 

I 

cupful  hot  mashed  potato 
tablespoons  hot  milk 
beaten  yolk  of  egg 
tablespoon    butter   or   mar- 

3 tablespoons  cheese  broken  in 
bits 
onion  salt 
salt  and  pepper 

garine 

a  few  grains  of  cayenne 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together.  Season  to  taste 
and  beat  until  light.  Wash  and  drain  tender  cabbage 
leaves  or  the  large  outside  leaves  of  lettuce.  Put  one 
spoonful  of  the  potato  mixture  in  each  leaf;  wrap  the 
leaf  around  it,  and  fasten  with  a  wooden  toothpick. 
Steam  for  twenty  minutes.  Remove  the  toothpick  and 
serve.    The  above  will  make  eight  or  nine  bouchees. 

21 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Potatoes  with  Peanut  Butter 

2  cups   cold   boiled   or   baked      |  tablespoon    butter    or    mar- 
potato  garine 
|  teaspoon  salt                              \  teaspoon  pepper 
2  tablespoons  peanut  butter             milk 

yolks  2  hardboiled  eggs 

Cut  potatoes  into  dice.  Melt  butter  in  saucepan. 
Put  the  potatoes  in.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Add  the  milk,  and  simmer  until  most  of  the  milk  is 
absorbed.  Blend  the  peanut  butter  and  yolks  of  eggs 
together  and  stir  into  the  potato.    Serve  when  hot. 


Potato  Balls 

Grate  three  or  four  cold  boiled  potatoes.  Cream 
one-third  cup  butter  or  margarine  and  work  into  it  three 
beaten  eggs.  Blend  this  with  the  potato.  Add  salt 
and  pepper.  Shape  into  small  balls.  Drop  into  boiling 
water  with  a  little  salt  in  it.  Simmer  for  ten  minutes. 
Serve  with  meat  gravy  or  tomato  sauce. 

Tomato  Sauce 

1 1  cups  strained  tomato  £  tablespoon  onion  juice 

2  tablespoons  fat  i^   tablespoons   cornstarch 

£  teaspoon  salt  i  teaspoon  pepper 

22 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Melt  the  fat.  Blend  with  it  the  cornstarch  and  sea- 
sonings. Pour  in  the  tomato  and  stir  until  it  thickens. 
Simmer  for  ten  minutes. 


Potato  Cakes 


medium  potatoes 
tablespoons     margarine     or 

any  clarified  fat 
teaspoon  minced  onion 
tablespoons  milk 


teaspoon  mace 
cayenne 
egg  yolks 

tablespoons  fine  bread 
crumbs 


|  teaspoon  salt 


After  removing  skins  from  either  boiled  or  baked 
potatoes,  mash  them  through  a  fine  strainer.  Soak 
the  crumbs  for  five  or  ten  minutes  in  the  milk.  Add 
the  soaked  crumbs,  salt,  mace,  and  cayenne,  and  the 
yolks  beaten  light.  Make  into  cakes.  Dip  into  melted 
fat  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown.  Serve  with 
cheese  sauce. 


i  tablespoon  butter 
i  J  tablespoons  flour 
\  teaspoon  salt 


Cheese  Sauce 

i  teaspoon  paprika 
i  cup  cheese  which  has  been 
put  through  the  chopper 
i  cup  milk 

23 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Melt  the  butter.  Add  flour,  salt,  and  paprika.  When 
blended  add  the  milk,  and  stir  until  it  boils.  Stir  in  the 
cheese  and  cook  over  water  until  the  cheese  is  melted 
and  smooth. 

Potato  Nests  with  Cheese 

4  medium  potatoes  I   tablespoon    butter    or    mar- 

^  teaspoon  salt  garine 

2  tablespoons  grated  cheese  a  few  grains  of  paprika 

2  tablespoons  thin  cream  2  egg  yolks 

Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes.  Add  the  butter,  cheese 
and  seasonings.  Beat  the  egg  yolks  with  the  cream  and 
mix  with  the  potato.  Make  into  nests,  and  place  on  a 
greased  baking  tin.  Brush  over  with  the  beaten  white 
of  egg  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Slip  carefully  off 
onto  a  hot  platter  and  fill  the  centers  with  hot  seasoned 
peas. 

Potato  nests  are  also  good  filled  with  creamed 
chicken  or  fish. 

Potato  Cheese  Souffle 

2  medium  potatoes  3  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

i   tablespoon  butter  I  cup  milk 

i   tablespoon  cream  I  egg 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Boil  the  potatoes  in  their  jackets.  When  soft  re- 
move skins  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  grate  or 
rub  through  wire  strainer.  Add  the  cheese,  butter  and 
milk.  Beat  the  egg  yolk  with  the  cream  and  add  to 
potato.  Beat  white  of  egg  light  and  dry  and  fold  in 
lightly.  Pour  into  a  buttered  mold  and  bake  one-half 
hour,  or  steam  one  hour,  tightly  covered.  Serve  at 
once. 

Potato  Gruyere 

Allow  one  potato  for  each  person.  Scrub  and  bake. 
When  done  open  and  scrape  the  inside  into  a  hot  bowl. 
Mash.  For  each  potato  add  one  teaspoon  butter,  two 
teaspoons  grated  Swiss  cheese,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  one  egg  for  every  three 
potatoes.  Form  into  heaps  on  a  buttered  pan.  Brush 
over  with  beaten  yolk  of  egg  diluted  with  a  little  milk. 
Brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Potatoes  with  Cheese  Stuffing 

3  large  potatoes  2  whites  of  eggs 

3  tablespoons  grated  cheese  I  yolk  of  egg 

2  tablespoons  milk  2  tablespoons  butter  or  mar- 

\  teaspoon  salt  garine 

I  teaspoon   chopped   parsley  \  teaspoon  pepper 

25 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Bake  the  potatoes.  When  done  cut  in  halves  length- 
wise. Remove  the  insides  to  a  hot  bowl  and  add  to 
them  the  cheese,  milk,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  yolk  of 
egg.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  stiff  and  fold  in  lightly. 
Fill  the  skins  with  the  mixture,  heaping  it  up.  Leave  the 
tops  rough.  Brush  them  over  with  yolk  of  egg  diluted 
with  one  tablespoon  milk.    Bake  in  oven  until  brown. 


Potato  Roll 

4  medium  potatoes  \  teaspoon  salt 

yolks  3  eggs  \  cup  cream 

i  teaspoon  finely  minced  on-  2  tablespoons  butter  or  mar- 
ion  garine 

Wash,  pare,  and  boil  the  potatoes  and  rub  through 
sieve.  Beat  the  yolks  with  the  cream  and  mix  with  the 
potato.  Add  the  butter  and  seasonings.  Butter  a  mold 
and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs.  Put  in  the  mixture. 
Set  mold  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Cover  with  oiled  paper 
and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  the  paper  and 
bake  for  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Serve  with  Holland- 
aise  Sauce. 

26 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Hollandaise  Sauce 

\  cup  butter  or  margarine  \  teaspoon  salt 

yolks  2  eggs  a  few  grains  cayenne 

juice  \  lemon  \  cup  boiling  water 

Cream  the  butter.  Add  one  egg  yolk  and  beat  it 
well  into  the  butter,  then  the  second  egg  yolk,  and  when 
well  mixed  add  the  salt,  cayenne,  and  boiling  water. 
Cook  over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  about  two 
minutes  until  like  thick  cream.  Remove  from  the  fire 
at  once  and  turn  into  dish  to  serve. 


Philadelphia  Potatoes 

new  potatoes,  enough  to  make  i  egg 

about  3  cupfuls  I  tablespoon  cream 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  mar-  2  teaspoons  cornstarch 

garine  f  teaspoon  salt 

J  cup  milk  \  teaspoon  pepper 

Boil  the  potatoes  and  remove  the  skins.  Cut  in  thin 
slices.  Make  a  sauce  with  the  butter,  cornstarch,  and 
milk.  Season  writh  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  a  shallow 
dish.  Put  in  half  the  potato ;  add  half  the  sauce,  then 
repeat.  Beat  the  egg  with  the  cream  and  pour  over 
the  last  thing.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  egg  is  set. 

27 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Kentucky  Potatoes 

5  medium  potatoes  2  tablespoons  butter  or  mar- 

^  teaspoon  white  pepper  garine 

ij  cups  milk  f  teaspoon  salt 

Wash,  pare,  and  slice  the  potatoes.  Soak  in  cold 
water  one-half  hour.  Drain  and  put  into  a  greased 
baking  dish.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over 
the  milk  and  put  the  butter  in  bits  over  the  top.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven,  about  forty-five  minutes  until  soft.  Cover 
for  the  first  twenty  minutes. 


Norwegian  Potatoes 

2  cups    raw    potato    cut    into      ^  cup  chopped  raw  onion 

dice  2  tablespoons  clean  fat 

1  cup  chopped  raw  carrot  1   teaspoon  salt 

J  teaspoon  pepper 

Melt  the  fat.  Cook  in  it  the  onion  and  carrot  (but 
do  not  brown  them) ,  for  five  minutes.  Add  the  potato, 
salt,  and  pepper.  Add  enough  boiling  water  to  cover. 
Cover  and  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Watch  carefully 
that  the  water  does  not  boil  away  and  the  vegetables 
burn.  Remove  the  cover  and  cook  until  most  of  the 
water  has  evaporated. 

28 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Scotch  Potatoes 

2  cups  potato  i^    tablespoons   cornstarch   or 

i^  cups  onion  rice  flour 

i  cup  milk  I  \  teaspoons  salt 

i  tablespoon    butter  or   mar-     \  teaspoon  pepper 
garine 

Wash,  pare,  and  cut  potato  and  onion  in  quarter-inch 
slices.  Cover  with  boiling  water.  Add  one  teaspoon 
salt  and  cook  ten  minutes.  Drain.  Put  into  a  greased 
baking  dish.  Make  a  sauce  by  melting  the  butter; 
blend  with  it  the  cornstarch  or  rice  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  and  pepper.  Add  the  milk  and  stir  until  it 
thickens.  Pour  this  over  the  potatoes  and  onion.  Put 
small  pieces  of  butter  over  the  top  and  bake  thirty  to 
forty  minutes. 

Swiss  Potatoes 

Cut  four  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  thin  slices.  Break 
into  small  pieces  half. as  much  cheese  as  there  is. potato. 
Put  alternate  layers  of  potatoes  and  cheese  into  a  well 
buttered  baking  dish  with  a  layer  of  potatoes  on  top. 
Pour  one-fourth  cup  milk  over  all  and  dot  the  top  with 
pieces  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  light 
brown. 

29 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 


French  Potatoes 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  slices  one-fourth  inch 
thick.  Saute  in  a  little  butter  or  margarine.  Keep 
slices  whole  if  possible.  When  brown  on  both  sides  add 
more  butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  salt,  pepper, 
and  lemon  juice.  When  hot  add  a  little  hot  cream,  and 
serve. 


Chilian  Potatoes 

Mashed  potatoes  seasoned  with  salt,  butter,  tabasco, 
and  milk.  Press  into  a  brick  loaf  pan.  When  cold  cut 
into  half-inch  slices.    Roll  in  flour.    Saute  in  oil. 


Potatoes  Mexican  Style 

5  medium   potatoes  |  tablespoon  parsley 

J  cup  seeded  raisins  I  teaspoon  sugar 

10  olives  stuffed  with  pimen-  \  teaspoon  salt 

to  cayenne 

After  scrubbing,  paring,  and  boiling  the  potatoes  rub 
them  through  a  fine  strainer.  Put  raisins,  olives,  and 
parsley  through  the  meat  chopper  and  add  the  potato. 

30 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Add  sugar,  salt,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne.  Form 
into  an  oblong  cake  and  leave  the  top  rough.  Put  two 
teaspoons  of  margarine  or  vegetable  oil  into  a  baking 
tin  and  heat.  Put  in  the  cake  and  bake  for  fifteen 
minutes  or  until  a  golden  brown.  Take  out  carefully 
onto  a  hot  platter  and  serve. 


Potato  and  Spinach  Croquettes 

2  cups  hot  mashed  potato  2  tablespoons  butter  or  mar- 

2  eggs  garine 

J  cup  cooked  spinach  chopped  ^  teaspoon  salt 

fine  I  teaspoon  pepper 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together.  Cool.  Shape  into 
croquettes.  Roll  in  egg  and  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat, 
or  roll  in  flour  and  dip  in  melted  fat  and  cook  in  a  hot 
oven  until  brown. 


Potato  and  Nut  Croquettes  (1) 

I  cup  mashed  potato  i|  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  chopped  nut  meats  J  teaspoon   pepper 

I  teaspoon  onion  juice  2  tablespoons  milk 

i  teaspoon  lemon  juice  ~i  egg 

31 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Mix  potato,   meat,  onion  juice,   pepper,   salt,   anc 
lemon  juice  together.     Beat  the  egg  and  add  the  milk. 
Mix  with  the  potato  mixture.    Shape,  prepare,  and  cook 
as  other  croquettes. 


Potato  and  Nut  Croquettes  (2) 


I  cup  mashed  potato 

i   cup  soft  bread  crumbs 

^  teaspoon  salt 

\  teaspoon  lemon  juice 


1  cup  black  walnut  meats 

2  eggs 

\  teaspoon  celery  salt 

3  tablespoons  milk 


,    Mix  all  the  ingredients  together, 
quettes  and  fry. 


Make  into  cro- 


32 


BISCUITS,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 


CHAPTER  III 

BISCUITS,   MUFFINS,   ETC. 

Raised  Potato  Biscuit 

I  cup  hot  mashed  potato  I  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons   shortening  J  cup  milk 

\  yeast   cake    dissolved    in  \      2\  cups  rice  flour 

cup  warm  water  enough     wheat     flour     to 

i  tablespoon  sugar  knead 

Add  the  shortening,  salt,  sugar,  and  milk  to  the 
potato.  When  cool  add  the  yeast  and  rice  flour.  Then 
add  enough  white  flour  to  make  stiff  enough  to  knead. 
Knead  well  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light 
and  porous  cut  down  with  a  knife.  Shape  into  biscuit. 
Put  into  baking  pan.  Let  rise  again  and  bake  for  half 
an  hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

This  is  also  good  made  into  a  loaf,  and  does  not  need 
as  much  shortening  as  when  made  into  biscuit. 


Potato  Biscuit  (1) 

I  cup  mashed  potato  2  tablespoons  shortening 

I  cup  corn  flour  i  cup  wheat  flour 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  I  teaspoon  salt 

milk  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough 

35 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Put 
in  shortening  with  tips  of  fingers.  Add  the  potato,  and 
enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Turn  onto  a 
floured  board.  Roll  to  half-inch  thickness,  cut  with  bis- 
cuit  cutter,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  half 
an  hour. 


Potato  Biscuit  (2) 

i  cup     cold     mashed     potato      i  tablespoon  flour 

which  has  been  left  over      i  tablespoon  melted  butter 
from  a  meal. 

^  Turn  onto  a  floured  board.  Roll  to  inch  thickness. 
Cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  Put  onto  a  greased  sheet  one- 
half  inch  apart.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown.  Spl 
butter,  and  serve  while  hot. 


English  Muffins 

i  large  potato  i  yeast    cake    dissolved    in    £ 

i   teaspoon  salt  cup  water 

i  \  cups  boiling  water 

36 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Wash  and  pare  the  potato  and  boil.  When  soft  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Add  the  water.  When  cool  add  the 
yeast.  Beat  well,  and  add  two  cups  of  rice  flour  and 
enough  wheat  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Cover  and 
let  rise  until  light  and  porous.  Turn  onto  a  board, 
dredged  with  flour.  Divide  in  pieces.  Roll  in  round 
shape.  Let  them  set  on  board  to  rise  again  until  full  of 
bubbles.  Have  the  griddle  greased  and  warm.  Slip 
the  muffins  on  carefully.  When  cooked  on  one  side 
turn  and  cook  on  the  other.  Do  not  have  the  griddle 
too  hot,  as  they  are  liable  to  burn  before  being  thor- 
oughly cooked.  When  cold  split  and  toast.  These  may 
be  baked  in  the  oven. 

Potato  and  Corn  Muffins 

I   cup  mashed  potato  I   tablespoon  fat 

I   cup  white  corn  meal  I  egg 

I   cup  hot  milk  |-  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

Beat  the  potato,  meal,  and  milk  together.    Add  the 

fat,  sugar,  and  yolk  of  egg  beaten  light.     Beat  until 

light  and  fold  in  the  white  of  egg  beaten  stiff.     Drop 

into  greased  muffin  pans.     Bake  for  thirty  minutes  in  a 

I  moderately  hot  oven. 

37 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 


Potato,  Rye,  and  Oatmeal  Muffins 

I  cup  mashed  potato  2  tablespoons  corn  syrup 

^  cup  fine  ground  oatmeal  -J  cup  milk 

^  cup  rye  flour  I  egg 

I  teaspoon  baking  powder  -J  teaspoon  salt 


Beat  the  egg  light.  Add  the  milk  and  syrup.  Sift 
the  salt,  baking  powder,  and  flour  together,  and  add 
with  the  potato  and  oatmeal  to  the  first  mixture.  Put 
into  greased  muffin  pans  and  bake  for  one-half  hour. 


Potato  Scones 

I  cup  mashed  potato  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

I I  cups   barley  flour  2  tablespoons  fat 
I  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

milk  to  moisten 

Sift  together  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder.  Mix 
butter  in  lightly  with  tips  of  fingers.  Add  the  potato 
and  the  egg  beaten  light.  Enough  milk  to  moisten. 
Divide  in  two  parts  and  roll  each  part  one  inch  thick, 
keeping  it  round.  Cut  in  quarters  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  or  on  a  griddle.  Turn  when  brown  on  one  side. 
Serve  hot. 

38 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Scotch  Bannocks 

I  cup  mashed  potato  i  cup  fine  oatmeal 

J  teaspoon  soda  |  teaspoon  salt 

i  tablespoon  corn  syrup  I  tablespoon  melted  fat 

buttermilk 

Mix  together  the  potato,  oatmeal,  soda,  salt,  fat, 
and  syrup.  Add  enough  buttermilk  to  make  into  a  soft 
dough.  Form  into  balls  with  the  hand  and  then  flatten 
until  half  an  inch  thick.  Cook  on  the  griddle  or  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven.  When  done  split  and  spread 
with  honey  or  syrup. 


Potato  Noodles 

I  cup   mashed    potato  I  egg 

^  cup  wheat  flour  \  teaspoon  salt 

rice  flour 

Add  salt  and  slightly  beaten  egg  to  potatoes.  Add 
the  wheat  flour  and  enough  rice  flour  to  knead  into  a 
stiff  dough.  Turn  onto  a  floured  board.  Roll  thin. 
Sprinkle  with  flour  and  roll  like  a  jelly  roll.  Cut  in 
pieces  one-eighth  inch  thick.  Unroll  and  spread  out  on 
board  to  dry  for  one  hour  or  longer.     To  be  used  in 

39 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

soups  or  cooked  in  rapidly  boiling  water  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes  and  served  with  meat  or  with  cheese 
sauce. 


Potato  Pancakes  (1) 

3  medium    cold    boiled    pota-      i   teaspoon  baking  powder 

toes  I   small   onion 

2  eggs  ^  teaspoon  salt 

enough  barley  flour  to  mix      J  teaspoon   pepper 
i  tablespoon  melted  fat 

Rub  through  a  strainer  or  grate  the  potatoes.  Mince 
the  onion  very  fine.  Beat  the  eggs  light.  Sift  one-half 
cup  barley  flour  with  the  baking  powder.  Mix 
altogether  and  add  enough  barley  flour  to  make  stiff 
enough  to  drop  from  spoon.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a 
hot  greased  griddle.  When  brown  turn  and  brown  on 
other  side. 


Potato  Pancakes  (2) 

4  potatoes  2  eggs 

i  tablespoon  fine  bread  |  teaspoon   salt 


cr 


umbs 


40 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Pare  and  grate  the  potatoes.  Separate  the  eggs. 
Add  the  yolks  with  the  salt  and  bread  crumbs  to  th#e 
potato.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff  and  fold  in  lightly. 
Drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  a  greased  griddle.  When 
brown  on  one  side  turn  and  brown  on  other.  Do  not 
have  the  griddle  too  hot. 


Potato  Dumplings  (1) 

2  or  3  medium  potatoes  \  teaspoon  salt 

J  teaspoon  mace  I  tablespoon       sifted       bread 

I   teaspoon   beef   suet  crumbs 

chopped  fine  or  the  same  I  egg 

amount  of  butter 

Bake  the  potatoes.  Scoop  out  insides  and  rub 
through  a  sieve.  There  should  be  one  cupful.  When 
cold  add  the  other  ingredients,  and  the  egg  well  beaten. 
Flour  the  hands.  Make  into  balls  and  drop  into  boil- 
ing salted  water.    Simmer  for  fifteen  minutes. 


Potato  Dumplings  (2) 

1  large  cold   boiled   potato  \  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  i  teaspoon  baking  powder 

corn  flour 

4i 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Rub  the  potato  through  a  wire  strainer  or  grate  it. 
Add  salt  and  beaten  eggs.  Sift  one-fourth  cup  corn 
flour  with  the  baking  powder.  Stir  into  the  potato  mix- 
ture and  add  enough  corn  flour  to  form  into  balls. 
Roll  into  balls  about  one  and  one-half  inches  in  diam- 
eter. Bake  for  half  an  hour  or  steam  for  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  Serve  with  meat  or  as  a  dessert  with  fruit 
sauce. 


Potato  Quenelles 

2  cups  hot  mashed  potato  I  tablespoon  butter 

2  tablespoons  cream  I  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

\  teaspoon  salt  \  teaspoon  pepper 

2  eggs  2  tablespoons  minced  ham 

Add  butter,  parsley,  salt,  pepper,  and  ham  to  the 
potato.  Add  the  yolk  of  eggs  beaten  with  the  cream. 
Add  the  whites  beaten  stiff.  Shape  into  oval  quenelles 
on  a  teaspoon  with  a  spatula.  Drop  into  smoking  hot 
fat.    Drain  on  soft  paper. 


42 


SWEET  POTATOES 


CHAPTER  IV 

SWEET  POTATOES 

Considering  both  composition  and  digestibility  it 
may  be  said  that  the  nutritive  value  of  sweet  potatoes 
is  much  the  same  as  that  of  white  potatoes,  and  that 
they  are  well  fitted  to  occupy  the  same  place  in  the  diet, 
and  furnish  a  palatable  substitute  for  white  potatoes. 
In  the  North  they  usually  cost  more  than  white  pota- 
toes. In  the  South  they  are  quite  as  cheap  or  cheaper 
than  white  potatoes. 


Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Wash  and  bake  the  same  as  white  potatoes.     Small 
ones  will  bake  in  about  one-half  hour. 


Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes 

Wash  but  do  not  pare.     Put  into  boiling  water  and 
cook  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.     Remove  the  skin  and 

45 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

put  into  the  oven  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  or  until 
soft.  Potatoes  are  much  sweeter  and  drier  when 
cooked  this  way  than  when  boiled  until  soft.  Very 
large  potatoes  should  be  boiled  longer. 


Browned  Sweet  Potatoes 

Prepare  as  above  except  split  in  halves  after  boiling 
and  peeling.  Put  into  a  baking  pan  and  baste  with  meat 
drippings.  Season  with  salt.  Cook  in  oven  until  soft, 
basting  every  ten  minutes. 


Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes 

Cut  cooked  sweet  potatoes  into  slices  one-half  inch 
thick.  Spread  butter  or  margarine  over  the  bottom  of 
baking  dish.  Cover  with  a  layer  of  potatoes  spread 
with  corn  syrup.  Dot  over  with  bits  of  butter.  Add 
another  layer  of  potato,  corn  syrup,  and  bits  of  butter. 
Pour  one-fourth  cup  hot  water  over  all.  Bake  for  half 
an  hour  in  a  hot  oven,  or  until  the  potatoes  are  glazed. 

46 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

§  Fried  Sweet  Potatoes 

ut  cold  cooked  potatoes  into  slices  and  fry  brown 
in  any  clean  fat. 


Sweet  Potatoes  with  Apples 

Butter  a  baking  dish.  Put  in  a  thick  layer  of  cold 
cooked  sweet  potatoes  cut  in  thin  slices.  Cover  with 
apples  which  have  been  pared,  cored  and  cut  in  thin 
slices.  Pour  one-third  cup  corn  syrup  over  them.  Dot 
over  with  bits  of  butter  and  sprinkle  on  a  little  salt. 
Bake  thirty  to  forty  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven, 
keeping  the  potatoes  covered  during  the  first  fifteen 
minutes. 


Sweet  Potatoes  with  Orange 

Cut  cooked  sweet  potatoes  into  cubes.  Butter  a  pud- 
ding dish.  Put  in  a  layer  of  potato  and  two  tablespoons 
of  corn  syrup,  and  a  little  of  the  grated  yellow  rind  of 
orange,  a  few  grains  of  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Dot 
over  with  bits  of  butter.  Put  in  another  layer  of 
potato  and  add  corn  syrup,  orange  rind,  salt,  nutmeg, 

47 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 


- 


and  butter,  as  before.  Add  juice  of  two  oranges,  one 
tablespoon  lemon  juice,  and  two  tablespoons  water 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty  to  forty  minutes. 


Sweet  Potato  Croquettes 

2  cups  hot  mashed  sweet  po-      |  teaspoon  salt 

tato  -J  teaspoon  pepper 

3  tablespoons    butter  i  egg  beaten  slighdy 

If  not  moist  enough  add  a  little  hot  milk.  Shape  and 
roll  in  flour,  then  in  egg  diluted  with  water,  then  in 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.    Drain  on  soft  paper. 


48 


POTATOES  WITH  MEAT  AND  FISH 


CHAPTER  V 

POTATOES  WITH  MEAT  AND  FISH 
A  Complete  Meal 

6  potatoes  i  teaspoon  salt 

I  pound   the  cheapest  cut  of      I  onion 

lamb  or  mutton  i  cup  strained  tomato 

|  teaspoon  pepper 

Have  a  kettle  with  a  close  fitting  cover.  Wash, 
pare,  and  slice  the  potatoes.  Skin  and  slice  the  onion. 
Cut  meat  into  small  pieces.  Put  into  the  kettle  alter- 
nate layers  of  the  meat,  potato,  onion,  and  seasonings. 
Begin  and  finish  with  the  potato.  Pour  over  the 
strained  tomato.  Put  on  the  cover  and  tie  a  dampened 
cloth  closely  over  the  top  so  no  steam  can  escape.  This 
can  be  cooked  over  water  or  in  the  fireless  cooker,  or  in 
a  slow  oven.  Cook  three  or  four  hours.  After  remov- 
ing from  the  fire  let  it  stand  five  minutes  before  remov- 
ing cloth  and  cover.  In  cooking  this  way  none  of  the 
i  nutriment  is  lost. 

5i 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Giblet  Stew 

Wash  the  giblets  and  neck  and  ends  of  wings.  Cover 
with  one  quart  water.  Bring  quickly  to  the  boiling 
point.  Simmer  for  one  hour.  Remove  the  meat  from 
the  neck  and  wings  and  chop  with  the  giblets.  Return 
to  the  kettle  and  add : 

I  cup  potato  cut  into  dice  i  tablespoon    chopped   onion 

5  fresh  mushrooms  broken  into  bits 

Simmer  for  twenty  minutes.    Add : 

i   teaspoon  salt  i  tablespoon  chicken  fat 

i   tablespoon  flour  blended  J  teaspoon  pepper 

with 

Stir  into  the  stew  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Take 
from  the  fire  and  add  one  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 
and  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs. 


Cottage  Pie 

Free  remnants  of  cold  cooked  meat,  which  may 
all  of  one  kind  or  a  mixture  of  several  kinds,  fror 
gristle,   bone,    and   surplus    fat.      Season  highly  witl 

52 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

chopped  onion,  salt,  and  pepper.    Add  chopped  olives 
or  chopped  peppers  if  liked. 

Cover  with  mashed  potato.     Dot  the  top  over  with 
pieces  of  butter.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  well  browned. 


Pepper  Pot 

,  i  cup  cold  boiled  potato  -J  can  mushrooms;  or 

I  cup    cooked     tripe     cut  in      6  fresh    mushrooms 

small  pieces  I  cup  cooked  chicken  cut  into 

I !  I  tablespoon  minced  onion  dice 

1  teaspoon  salt  I  tablespoon   minced   parsley 

2  tablespoons   butter  2  cups  bouillon  or  stock 
,4  or   5    drops   tabasco   sauce        I  tablespoon  flour 

i  teaspoon  paprika  a  few  grains  cayenne 

Melt  the  butter.  Add  the  onion,  flour,  and  stock. 
When  smooth  add  the  other  ingredients.  Simmer  for 
fifteen  minutes  and  serve. 


Savory  Liver 

1  pound  calf's  liver  I  cup  water 

2  small  onions  2  cups  potato 

I   teaspoon  salt  J  teaspoon  sage 

|  teaspoon  pepper 

53 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Have  the  liver  cut  in  slices,  and  pour  boiling  water 
over  it.  Drain  and  wipe  dry.  Cut  in  pieces  about  one 
inch  square.  Slice  the  potatoes  and  onions.  Grease  a 
baking  dish.  Put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  onion 
and  liver  and  seasonings.  Repeat  until  all  is  used. 
Pour  on  the  water.  Cover  with  greased  paper  and 
bake  slowly  one  hour.  Remove  the  paper  the  last 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Serve  with  apple  or  other  tart 
fruit  sauce. 


Liver  en  Casserole 

i  calf's  liver  J  cup  stock  or  water 

J  can   peas  I  pint  potatoes 

1  cup  carrots  2  onions 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  other      -§  cup  canned  mushrooms;  or 

clean  fat.  4  fresh  mushrooms 

1    tablespoon  flour 

Cream  the  butter  and  flour  and  spread  over  the  bot- 
tom of  casserole.  Cut  the  potato  and  carrot  into  dice 
and  mince  the  onion.  Put  these  with  the  peas  and  mush- 
rooms in  the  casserole.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  add  the  stock.  Put  the  liver  on  top  of  these. 
Cover  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  one  hour. 
Serve  in  the  casserole. 

54 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Potatoes  and  Sausage 

Cut  large  smooth  potatoes  into  halves  lengthwise. 
Take  out  part  of  the  center  and  fill  the  cavity  with 
sausage  meat.  Tie  halves  together  tightly  with  stout 
string.  Put  into  a  baking  tin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  potatoes  are  soft. 


Baked  Ham  and  Potatoes 

I  pint  cold  mashed  potato  I  teaspoon  made  mustard 

i  beaten  egg  i  cup  milk 

I  cup  chopped  cooked  ham 

Mix  together.  Put  into  a  greased  baking  dish. 
Sprinkle  the  top  with  grated  cheese  and  bake  twenty 
to  thirty  minutes. 


Potato  Casserole 

One  quart  of  hot  mashed  potato  seasoned  with  milk, 
butter,  and  salt.  Cool  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs.  Make  into  a  wall  on  a  fireproof  serving  dish. 
Brush  over  with  white  of  egg  and  place  in  oven  to 
brown, 

55 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Cut  any  cold  meat  into  small  pieces  and  heat  in  the 
gravy,  or  for  white  meat  make  a  white  sauce  and  heat 
the  meat  in  it.  Fill  the  potato  casserole  with  the  pre- 
pared meat  

Potato  Croustades 

2  cups  mashed  potato  2  tablespoons  butter  or  mar- 

2  tablespoons  milk  garine 

flour  2  egg  yolks 

^  teaspoon  salt 

To  the  mashed  potato  add  butter,  milk,  salt,  and 
beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Turn  on  to  a  well  floured  board 
and  make  into  a  roll  three  inches  thick.  Cut  off  pieces 
one  inch  thick.  Brush  over  with  beaten  white  of  egg. 
With  a  small  cutter  mark  a  lid.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  brown.  Lift  off  the  lid  and  scoop  out  part  of  the 
inside.    Fill  with  creamed  meat  or  fish. 


Stuffing  for  Roast  Goose  or  Duck  (1) 

2  cups  mashed  potato  J  teaspoon   sage 

i  cup  sausage  meat  fried  and      I  cup  fine  bread  crumbs 

broken  into  bits  I  tablespoon  minced  onion 

i  beaten  egg  i  teaspoon  salt 

a  few  grains  cayenne 

56 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Stuffing  for  Roast  Goose  (2) 

Pare  and  boil  four  medium-sized  potatoes  and  one 
onion  until  soft.  Drain  and  ma^sh.  Add  one-fourth 
cup  milk,  one  tablespoon  dried  and  crushed  sage  leaves, 
one  and  one-half  teaspoons  salt,  one-half  teaspoon 
pepper,  and  one  cup  soft  bread  crumbs. 


Fish  a  la  Murphy 

Remove  skin,  head,  and  tail  from  a  fish  weighing 
four  or  five  pounds.  Lay  one  fillet  on  a  greased  fish 
sheet.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  brush  over  with  lemon 
juice.  Place  on  this  a  layer  of  mashed  potato  which 
has  been  well  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  onion 
juice  and  a  liberal  amount  of  butter.  Cover  the  potato 
with  the  other  fillet.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  lemon 
juice  and  brush  over  with  melted  butter.  Bake  thirty 
to  forty  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Serve  with 
Hollandaise  Sauce. 

Haddock,  cod,  whitefish,  or  any  other  light-colored 
fish  may  be  cooked  in  this  way. 

57 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Scalloped  Herring 

3  salt  herrings  butter  or  margarine 

6  or    7    cold   cooked   potatoes     cayenne 
2  cups  of  milk  2  eggs 

Remove  skin  and  bone  from  fish  and  cut  into  inch 
squares.  Slice  the  potatoes.  Beat  the  eggs  slightly 
and  add  the  milk.  Butter  a  baking  dish.  Put  in  a  layer 
of  potato,  then  a  layer  of  fish.  Dot  over  with  bits  of 
butter  and  shake  on  a  little  cayenne.  Then  another 
layer  of  potato,  and  fish,  butter,  and  cayenne,  and  lastly 
the  potato.  Pour  over  the  milk  and  egg.  Cover  with 
buttered  crumbs  and  bake  thirty  to  forty  minutes. 


Fish  and  Potato  Scallop 

3  cups  raw  potato  cut  in  cubes  i|  cups  salt  cod  fish  cut  in 

i  tablespoon    chopped    onion  small  pieces 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  tablespoons  flour 

|  teaspoon  salt  i  teaspoon  pepper 

I  pint  milk  f  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs 

Cook  the  fish  and  potato  together  for  ten  minutes. 
Drain.  Melt  the  butter;  add  onion  and  cook  a  few 
moments,  but  do  not  brown.  Add  the  flour,  salt, 
pepper,  and  milk.    Cook  three  minutes  or  until  smooth. 

58 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Put  the  potatoes  and  fish  in  a  baking  dish.  Pour  over 
the  milk  sauce,  and  cover  with  the  buttered  crumbs. 
Bake  one-half  hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 


Salt  Fish  Balls 

i^  cups  fish  i  egg 

3  cups  potato  -J  teaspoon   pepper 

2  tablespoons  milk 

Wash  the  fish,  remove  bones  and  cut  into  small 
pieces  (scissors  are  best  to  use  in  cutting  fish).  Wash 
and  pare  the*  pototoes  and  cut  in  quarters.  Put  pota- 
toes and  fish  in  a  stew  pan  and  cover  with  boiling 
wafer.  Boil  until  the  potatoes  are  soft,  twenty  to 
twenty-five  minutes.  Turn  into  a  colander  and  drain 
off  all  the  water;  return  to  the  kettle  and  mash  and 
beat  until  light.  Add  the  milk,  pepper,  and  egg  well 
beaten.  Shape  in  a  large  spoon,  with  a  spatula.  Fry 
in  smoking-hot  fat  one  minute.    Drain  on  soft  paper. 


Fish  Balls  Made  of  Cooked  Fish 
Use  the  same  proportions  as  given  for  Salt  Fish 
Balls,  using  cooked  fish  which  has  been  left  over  or 
canned  fish,  Salmon,  or  Tuna  fish  are  good. 

59 


SOUPS  AND  CHOWDERS 


CHAPTER  VI 

SOUPS  AND  CHOWDERS 

Cream  of  Potato  Soup 

3  medium  potatoes  i  quart  milk 

i  onion  2  tablespoons  butter  or  mar- 

I   teaspoon  celery  salt  garine 

£  teaspoon  pepper  i  teaspoon  salt 

I  tablespoon    flour 

Wash  and  pare  the  potatoes;  boil  and  rub  through 
fine  strainer.  Put  milk  and  onion  (minced  fine)  on  to 
cook  in  double  boiler  while  potatoes  are  cooking.  Melt 
the  butter.  Blend  with  it  the  flour  and  seasonings  and 
stir  into  the  hot  milk.  Cook  five  minutes.  Pour  slowly 
over  the  potatoes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Boil  up  once 
and  serve.  One  beaten  egg  added  just  before  serving 
but  not  cooked  in  it  improves  it. 


Potato  and  Onion  Soup 

3  medium  potatoes  3  onions 

3  small    carrots  3  outside       stalks       of       eel 

\  cup  celery  sliced  thin  ery 

I  slice  bread  \  cup  strained  tomato 

63 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 


Wash,  pare,  and  slice  the  potatoes,  onions,  and  car- 
rots.    Wash  and  cut  the  celery  stalks  in  inch  pieces. 

Toast  the  bread  hard  and  brown,  and  spread  thickly 
with  butter  or  margarine.  Put  all  the  above  into  a 
kettle.  Add  two  quarts  boiling  water.  Simmer  for  two 
or  three  hours.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  the  sliced 
celery  and  strained  tomato,  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  pepper.  Cook  for  ten  minutes  and 
serve. 


Puree  of  Vegetables 

4  potatoes  2  small  carrots 

3  onions  4  tablespoons  fat 

sprig  of  parsley  1  teaspoon  sugar 

i|  teaspoons  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  small  turnip  |  teaspoon  pepper 

Cut  all  the  vegetables  into  small  pieces.  Melt  the 
fat.  Add  the  onions,  carrots,  and  parsley.  Cook  for 
five  minutes  but  do  not  brown.  Stir  in  the  flour.  Add 
potato  and  turnip,  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  salt, 
pepper,  and  sugar.  Boil  for  forty-five  minutes.  Rub 
through  a  fine  strainer.  If  needed  add  more  salt  and 
pepper. 

64 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Potato  Chowder 

4  large  potatoes  I  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

1  onion  i  teaspoon  salt 

2  inch  cube  salt  pork  J  teaspoon  pepper 

I  pint  boiling  water  I   tablespoon    butter    or   mar- 

i  pint  milk  garine 

i^  tablespoons  flour 

Put  the  pork  through  meat  chopper.  Chop  the 
onion.  Wash,  pare,  and  cut  potatoes  into  dice.  Fry 
the  pork.  Add  the  onion  and  cook  until  light  brown. 
Add  potatoes,  parsley,  salt,  pepper,  and  water.  Simmer 
until  potatoes  are  soft.  Make  a  sauce  of  the  butter, 
flour,  and  milk,  and  add  to  the  first  mixture.  Cook  for 
five  minutes.  Add  more  salt  and  pepper  if  needed. 
Serve  with  crisp  crackers. 


Fish  Chowder 

I  pound  fish                                   I  tablespoon     salt     pork    cut 

4  potatoes  in  small  pieces;  or 

i  onion                                            I  tablespoon  other  fat 

1  cup  fish  stock                               I  cup  hot  milk 

2  tablespoons     rice     or     corn      i  teaspoon  salt 

flour                                        £  teaspoon  pepper 

65 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Remove  skin  and  bones  from  fish.  Cover  the  skin 
and  bones  with  cold  water  and  put  to  cook.  Simmer 
for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes. 

Pare  and  cut  potatoes  into  dice.     Mince  the  onion. 

Fry  the  pork.  Remove  the  scraps.  Add  the  onion 
and  cook  two  or  three  minutes  but  do  not  brown.  Add 
the  flour.  Drain  water  from  bones  and  if  there  is  not 
a  cupful  add  enough  hot  water  to  fill  the  cup.  Add  to 
the  onion  and  flour.  Add  the  potato  and  fish  cut  into 
inch  pieces.  Simmer  until  potatoes  are  soft.  Add  the 
hot  milk,  salt,  and  pepper.  Put  two  crackers  broken 
into  quarters  in  the  serving  dish.  Pour  the  chowder 
over  them  and  serve.  Sprinkle  the  pork  scraps  over 
the  top. 

Strained  tomato  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  milk. 


Clam  Chowder 

I   quart  sliced  raw  potato  I  onion   sliced 

i  pint  clams  I  teaspoon  salt 

\  cup  salt  pork  cut  into  dice  \  teaspoon  pepper 

I   tablespoon   flour  i  pint  hot  milk 

Fry    the    pork.       Remove    the    scraps.      Add    the 
onion.     Fry  until  a  light  brown.    Add  the  flour.     Put 

66 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

in  layers  of  potatoes  and  clams.  Cover  with  boiling 
water.  Cook  until  the  potatoes  are  soft  (about  fifteen 
minutes) .  Add  the  milk  and  four  crackers  broken  into 
bits.    Add  more  salt  and  pepper  if  needed. 

Oyster  chowder  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner. 


Shrimp  Chowder 

1  cup  diced  cold  boiled  pota-      i  tablespoon    chopped    onion 

to  i^  cups  milk 

2  tablespoons       minced      salt      -J  cup   canned  shrimps 

pork  or  butter  I  tablespoon  flour 

salt  and  pepper 

Fry  the  pork,  or  if  butter  is  used,  melt  it,  and 
cook  the  onion  in  it  for  a  few  moments,  but  do  not 
brown.  Add  the  flour  and  the  milk.  Stir  until  smooth. 
Add  the  potato  and  shrimp  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Simmer  for  five  or  six  minutes.  Serve  with 
crisp  crackers. 


67 


SALADS 


CHAPTER  VII 

SALADS 

Potato  Salad 

Cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  dice.  Add  one  or  two 
pimentos  chopped  fine,  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  For  two  cupfuls.  of 
potato  add  two  tablespoons  oil  and  one  tablespoon 
vinegar. 

In  place  of  the  pimentos  two  or  three  cold  boiled 
beets  may  be  used  and  one  tablespoon  chopped  chives 
may  be  used  in  place  of  onion  juice. 


Russian  Salad 

I  cup  cold  cooked  potato  cut      \  teaspoon  salt 
in  dice  i  hard-boiled  tgg 

i  cup  cold  cooked  carrot  cut     6  shrimps  broken  into  bits 
in  dice  i  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

|  cup  cold  cooked  peas  i^  tablespoons  vinegar 

3  tablespoons  oil  J  teaspoon  paprika 

71 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 


Mix  the  potato,  carrot,  and  peas  lightly  with  the 
oil,  vinegar,  salt,  and  paprika.  Arrange  on  a  bed  of 
lettuce  leaves.  Mix  four  tablespoons  mayonnaise 
dressing  with  the  parsley  and  shrimp  and  spread  it  on 
the  salad.    Garnish  with  the  egg  cut  in  slices. 


Hungarian  Potato  Salad 

cooked     potato, 


pint     cold 

sliced 

small   onion  minced   fine 
pickled  beet  cut  in  dice 
smoked     herring    cut    into 

small  pieces 


i  cucumber  pickle  minced 
2  tablespoons    minced    boiled 

ham 
4  sardines     (bones    removed) 

cut  into  small  pieces 


Mix  lightly  with  four  tablespoons  oil,  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  vinegar  and  one-half  teaspoon  pa- 
prika.   Add  salt  if  needed. 


Serbian  Salad 


cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into 

small  dice 
or     3     tablespoons     cooked 

string  beans 
or     3     tablespoons     cooked 

peas 


need 


2  tablespoons    celery,    mince 

fine 
^  cucumber  cut  into  dice 
i  small  onion  minced  fine 
2  tomatoes  cut  into  dice 


72 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Mix  well  with  any  good  dressing,  and  serve  on  a  bed 
of  water  cress. 


Herring  Salad  (1) 

I  cup  mashed  potato  2  small  apples  chopped 

\  cup  cold  cooked  meat  I  cooked  beet  chopped 

chopped  fine  I  small  onion  minced  fine 

I  small  herring  soaked  over  night,  boned  and  chopped 

Mix  together.  Add  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper, 
two  tablespoons  vinegar,  and  four  tablespoons  sour 
cream. 


Herring  Salad  (2) 

2  Holland     herring,     soaked  4  medium  boiled  potatoes  cut 
over    night,    boned,    and  in  thin  slices 

cut  in  small  pieces  1  sour  apple  pared,  cored,  and 

2  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced  sliced  thin 

Toss  up  with  French  dressing  and  a  little  thick  sour 
cream. 

73 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Spanish  Onion  Stuffed  with  Potato  Salad 

Peel  the  onions.  Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  and  re- 
move all  but  the  two  outside  layers.  Chop  the  part 
removed  with  double  the  amount  of  cold  boiled  potato. 
Mix  with  French  dressing.  Fill  the  onions  with  this 
mixture  and  garnish  with  olives  stuffed  with  pimentos, 
cut  in  halves  lengthwise. 


Potato  Salad  Dressing 


medium   potato  boiled   and 

mashed 
yolk  of  raw  egg 
tablespoons  oil 


2  tablespoons  vinegar 
i  teaspoon  mustard 
i  teaspoon  salt 
cayenne 


When  potato  is  cold  add  the  egg  yolk,  mustard,  salt, 
and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne.  Add  the  oil,  a  little  at  a 
time,  beating  constantly,  and  lastly  the  vinegar  slowly. 


Boiled  Salad  Dressing 


yolks  of  2  eggs 
\  teaspoon  mustard 
i   teaspoon  salt 


few 


\  cup  hot  vinegar 
2  tablespoons   corn 
•J  cup  sour  cream 
grains   cayenne 

74 


oil' 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Beat  the  yolks  slightly,  add  the  seasonings,  oil,  and 
vinegar.  Cook  over  water  until  it  thickens,  stirring 
constantly.  When  cool,  add  the  cream  and  beat  with 
Dover  egg  beater.  Sweet  cream  may  be  used  in  place 
of  sour  if  preferred. 


75 


PUDDINGS  AND  CAKES 


CHAPTER  VIII 

PUDDINGS    AND   CAKES 

Potato  Pudding 

I  cup  grated  cold  potato  i  pint  mflk 

3  eggs  beaten  light  4  tablespoons  sugar 

J  teaspoon  salt  I  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter  or  margarine 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  together.     Pour  into  a  well 
buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 


Potato  and  Carrot  Pudding 

1  cup   grated   raw  potato  \  teaspoon  mace 

1  cup  grated  raw  carrot  1  cup  barley  flour 

1   cup  seeded  raisins  -J  cup  corn  flour 

I  cup  butter  or  margarine         f  cup  molasses 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  teaspoon  soda 

i  teaspoon  cloves 

Steam  three  hours. 

79  < 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 


Minute  Pudding 

i  cup*  potato  flour  2  eggs 

\  teaspoon  salt  -J  cup  corn  syrup 

1  quart  milk  \  teaspoon  salt 

Heat  three  cups  of  milk  in  double  boiler.  Mix  the 
flour  and  salt  with  the  other  cup  of  milk  and  stir  into 
the  hot  milk.  Stir  until  it  thickens,  then  cook  for  ten 
minutes.  Beat  the  eggs  slightly;  add  the  corn  syrup 
and  stir  into  the  hot  mixture.  -  Cook  for  five  minutes 
stirring  all  the  time.  Pour  into  a  serving  dish  and  serve 
either  hot  or  cold  with  cream  and  sugar. 


Potato  Fruit  Pudding 


1  cup  mashed  potato  2  tablespoons  baking  powder 

1  \  tablespoons  butter  or  but-      1  pint  rice  flour 

ter  substitute  \  teaspoon    ginger    or    cinna 

\  teaspoon  salt  mon 

1  egg  milk 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  and  spice  together. 
Add  the  butter,  using  the  tips  of  fingers  to  mix  with. 
Add  the  potato  and  egg  beaten  light,  and  enough  milk 
to  make  a  soft  dough.     Put  the  fruit,  which  may  be 

80 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 


cherries,  blackberries,  blueberries,  or  sliced  peaches 
into  a  baking  dish.  Add  enough  sugar  or  corn  syrup 
to  sweeten.  Cover  with  the  dough  and  cut  slashes  in 
top  to  allow  steam  to  escape.  Either  bake  for  half  an 
hour  or  steam  for  one  hour.    Serve  with  a  sweet  sauce. 


1 


Orange  Dumplings 


1  cup  cold  mashed  potato  |  teaspoon  ginger 
j i  cup  corn  flour  I   egg 

J  i  cup  wheat  flour  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  mar-  milk 

garine 

Sift  the  baking  powder,  ginger,  and  corn  and  wheat 
flour  together.  Add  the  potato,  butter,  and  egg  beaten 
light,  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Turn 
onto  a  floured  board  and  roll  to  half  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness. Cut  into  three  inch  squares  and  lay  pieces  of 
orange  on  each  square.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  draw 
the  corners  over  the  orange.  Steam  for  one  hour  or 
bake  for  thirty-five  minutes.     Serve  with 

Orange  Sauce 

Mix  one  tablespoon  arrowroot  with  a  little  cold 
water.     Add  one  cup  boiling  water  and  boil  for  five 

8i 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 


minutes.  Add  the  juice  of  one  orange  and  the  grated 
rind  of  half  an  orange,  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  and 
one-half  cup  sugar.  Cook  for  five  minutes.  Add  one 
tablespoon  of  butter,  and  serve. 

Cornstarch  may  be  used  in  place  of  arrowroot,  but 
must  be  cooked  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 


Fruit  Sauce 

J  cup  sugar  i   tablespoon  butter 

J  cup  canned  or  fresh  fruit  or      i  cup  boiling  water 
jelly  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

i  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

If  an  acid  jelly  is  used  the  lemon  juice  may  be 
omitted. 

Mix  cornstarch  with  the  sugar.  Add  the  boiling 
water  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Add  the  fruit  or  jelly. 
If  canned  or  fresh  fruit  is  used  put  through  a  strainer. 


Short  Cake 

I  cup  hot  mashed   potato  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  corn  flour  ^  teaspoon  salt 

\  cup  milk  4  tablespoons  butter  or  mar- 

1   tablespoon  sugar  garine 

82 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Boil  one  large  or  two  medium  potatoes.  When  soft 
rub  through  a  fine  wire  strainer.  Measure  one  cupful 
and  add  the  milk.  Sift  together  the  corn  flour,  salt, 
sugar,  and  baking  powder.  Rub  in  the  butter  with  the 
tips  of  the  fingers.  Add  the  potato  and  put  into  a  well 
greased  shallow  baking  tin.  Smooth  it  over  the  top 
with  a  spatula  until  the  pan  is  covered  and  the  top 
smooth.  Bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven.  When  done  split  with  a  heated  knife  and  spread 
with  butter  and  cover  with  mashed  and  sweetened  ber- 
ries or  peaches. 


Sponge  Cake 

|  cup  sugar  J  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  potato  flour  2  eggs 

i  teaspoon  baking  powder  4  tablespoons  cold  water 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Beat  the  yolks,  sugar,  water,  and  lemon  juice  together 
until  thick  and  light.  Sift  the  flour  twice,  then  once 
with  the  baking  powder  and  salt.  Mix  lightly  with  the 
first  mixture.  Fold  in  the  whites  beaten  stiff  and  light. 
Bake  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

83 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Chocolate  Cake 

2  eggs  J  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter  i  square  chocolate 

2  tablespoons  corn  syrup  -|  teaspoon  vanilla 

\  cup  potato  flour  i  teaspoon  baking  powder 
a  few  grains  salt 

Melt  the  chocolate  over  water.  Add  the  syrup, 
butter,  and  milk.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  togethei 
until  light.  Add  the  salt  and  vanilla,  and  combine  the 
two  mixtures.  Beat  well.  Add  the  flour  and  bakin 
powder.  Pour  into  well  buttered  small  cake  tins.  Bake 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  This  rule  will  make  a  dozen 
small  cakes. 

Scotch  Drop  Cakes 

\  cup  mashed  potato  \  cup  honey 

\  cup  oatmeal  put  through  the      \  cup  butter  or  margarine 

meat  chopper  i  egg 

\  cup  rye  flour  \  teaspoon  soda 

milk 

Mix   all  the   ingredients   together  in   order  given 
Then  add  enough  milk  to  make  just  stiff  enough  to  dror 
from  a  spoon.     Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  sheet 
and  bake   in   a   moderately  hot   oven  ten   to   fifteen 
minutes. 

84 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Chocolate  Nougat  Cake 

£  cup  potato  \  cup  grated  chocolate 

J  cup  butter  or  margarine  -J  cup   blanched  and  chopped 

^  cup  sugar  almonds 

■|  cup  corn  syrup  2  eggs 

i  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

i^  cups  barley  flour  a  few  grains  of  salt 

3  Either  grate  or  rub  through  a  wire  strainer  enough 
cold  cooked  potato  to  make  half  a  cupful.     Cream  the 

■utter;  add  sugar, ^corn  syrup,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of 
'eggs.  Beat  well.  Add  the  potato.  Sift  salt  and  bak- 
ing powder  with  the  flour  and  add  with  the  chocolate, 
nuts,  and  milk  to  the  first  mixture.  Beat  the  whites  of 
eggs  until  light  and  stiff  and  fold  in  lightly.     Bake  in 

i  buttered  cake  tin,  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Dther  nuts  maybe  used  if  preferred. 


Potato  Doughnuts 

j  potatoes  \  cup  barley  flour 

.2  tablespoons  butter  4  tablespoons  corn  syrup 

^  cup  sugar  J  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  eggs  J  teaspoon  soda 

J  cup  sour  milk  or  buttermilk      I  teaspoon  baking  powder 
enough  wheat  flour  to  roll  out 

85 


The  Book  of  Potato  Cookery 

Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes.  Add  the  butter,  sugar, 
corn  syrup,  and  nutmeg.  Beat  the  eggs  light  and  add 
them  with  the  milk.  Sift  the  soda,  baking  powder,  and 
barley  flour  together.  Add  enough  wheat  flour  to  make 
a  soft  dough.  Flour  the  board.  Pat  to  half  an  inch 
thickness ;  cut  out  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


86 


INDEX 


A  complete  meal,  51 

B 

Baked  ham   and   potatoes,   55 
Baked  hashed   brown   potatoes,   12 
Baked  potatoes,  10 
Baked  sweet  potatoes,  45 
Bails 

Fish,  made  of  cooked  fish,  59 

Potato,  22 

Salt  fish,  59 
Biscuit 

Potato  (1),  35 

Potato  (2),  36 

Raised  potato,  35 
Boiled  potatoes,  9 
Boiled  salad  dressing,  74 
Boiled  sweet  potatoes,  45 
Bouchees,  Potato,  21 
Browned  sweet  potatoes,  46 


Cake 

Chocolate,  84 

Chocolate   nougat,    85 

Short,  82 

Sponge,  83 
Cakes 

Potato,  23 

Scotch  drop,  84 


Casserole,  Potato,  55 
Casserole,  Liver   en,   54 
Cheese  sauce,  23 
Cheese  souffle,  Potato,  24 
Chilian  potatoes,  30 
Chocolate  cake,  84 
Chocolate  nougat  cake,  85 
Chops,  Potato,  20 
Chowder 

Clam,  67 

Fish,   66 

Potato,  65 

Shrimp,  68 
Clam  Chowder,  67 
Complete  meal,  A,   51 
Cottage  pie,  52 
Cream  of  potato  soup,  63 
Croquettes 

Potato  and  nut  (1),  31 

Potato  and  nut  (2),  32 

Potato  and  spinach,   31 

Sweet  potato,  48 
Croustades,  Potato,  56 
Curried  potatoes,   14 

D 

Delmonica  potatoes,  18 
Doughnuts,  Potato,  85 
Dumplings 

Orange,  81 

Potato  (1),  41 

Potato  (a),  41 


87 


Index 


English  muffins,  36 


Liver  en  casserole,  54. 
Savory,  53 


Fish 

A  la  Murphy,  57 

And  potato  scallop,  58 

Balls  made  of  cooked  fish,  59 

Balls,  Salt,  59 

Chowder,  66 
Franconia    potatoes,    (Baked   with 

meat),  20 
French  potatoes,  30 
French  fried  potatoes,  11 
Fricassee,  Potato,  15 
Fried  sweet  potatoes,  47 
Fruit  sauce,  82 


Giblet  stew,  52 
Glazed  sweet  potatoes, 

H 


46 


Hashed  brown  potatoes,  11 
Herring  salad  (1),  73 
Herring  salad  (2),  73 
Herring,  Scalloped,  58 
Hollandaise  sauce,  27 
Hungarian  potato  salad,  72 

K 

Kalecanon,  18 
Kentucky  potatoes,  28 


M 

Mashed  potatoes,  9 
Minute  pudding,  80 
Muffins 

English,   36 

Potato  and  corn,  37 

Potato,  rye  and  oatmeal,  38 

N 

Noodles,  Potato,  39 
Norwegian  potatoes,  28 

O 

Omelette,  Potato,  17 
Onion  soup,  Potato  and,  63 
Onions,  Potatoes  and,  18 
Orange  dumplings,  81 
Orange  sauce,  81 


Pancakes 

Potato   (1),  40 
Potato   (2),  40 

Pepper  pot,  53 

Philadelphia  potatoes,  27 

Pie,  Cottage    52 
Potato,   19 

Potato 

And  carrot  pudding,   79 

And  corn  muffins,  37 

And  nut  croquettes   (1),  31 


88 


Index 


And  nut  croquettes   (2),  32 

And  onion  soup,  63 

And  spinach  croquettes,  31 

Balls,  22 

Biscuit  (1),  35 

Biscuit   (2),  36 

Bouchees,  21 

Cakes,  23 

Casserole,   55 

Cheese  souffle,  24 

Chops,  20 

Chowder,  65 

Croustades,   56 

Doughnuts,  85 

Dumplings   (1),  41 

Dumplings   (2),  41 

Fricassee,   15 

Fruit  pudding,  80 

Gruyere,  25 

Hillocks,   16 

Nests  with  cheese,  24 

Noodles,  39 

Omelette,  17 

Pancakes   (1),  40 

Pancakes   (2),  40 

Pie,  19 

Pudding,  79 

Puffs,   13 

Quenelles,  42 

Roll,  26 

Rye  and  oatmeal  muffins,  38 

Salad,   71 

Salad   dressing,   74 

Salad,  Hungarian,  72 

Saute,  10 

Scallop,  15 

Scones,  38 

Souffle,  14 

Soup,  Cream  of,  63 


Potatoes 

A  la  Maitre  d'Hotel,  11 

And    onions     (To    serve    with 
sausage),  18 

And  sausage,  55 

Baked,  10 

Baked  ham  and,  55 

Baked  hashed  brown,  12 

Boiled,  9 

Chilian    30 

Curried,  14 

Delmonica,  18 

Franconia    (Baked  with  meat), 
20 

French,  30 

French  fried,  11 

Hashed  brown,  11 

Hashed  in  cream,  13 

Kentucky,  28 

Mashed,  9 

Mexican  style,  30 

Norwegian,  28 

Philadelphia,  27 

Scotch,  29 

Sweet,  45 

Swiss,  29 

With  cheese  stuffing,  25 

With  chives,  16 

With  peanut  butter,  22 
Pudding 

Minute,  80 

Potato,  79 

Potato  and  carrot,  79 

Potato  fruit,  80 
Puffs,  Potato,  13 
Puree  of  vegetables,  64 

Q 

Quenelles,  Potato,  42 


89 


Index 


Raised  potato  biscuit,  35 
Roll,  Potato,  26 
Russian  salad,  71 


Salad 

Dressing,  Boiled,  74 

Dressing,  Potato,  74 

Herring   (1),  73 

Herring   (2),  73 

Potato,  71 

Russian,  71 

Serbian,  72 

Spanish  onion   stuffed   with   po- 
tato, 74 
Salt  fish  balls,  59 
Sauce 

Cheese,  23 

Fruit,  82 

Hollandaise,  27 

Orange,  81 

Tomato,  22 
Sausage,  Potatoes  and,  55 
Sauted  potatoes,  10 
Savory  liver,  53 
Scallop,  Potato,  15 
Scalloped  herring,   58 
Scones,  Potato,  38 
Scotch  bannocks,  39 


Scotch  drop  cakes,  84 
Scotch  potatoes,    29 
Serbian  salad,  72 
Short  cake,  82 
Shrimp  chowder,    68 
Souffle,  Potato,   14 
Spanish    onion    stuffed    with    po- 
tato salad,  74 
Sponge  cake,  83 
Stew,  Giblet,  52 
Stuffing   for    roast    goose    or    duck 

(1),  56 
Stuffing  for  roast  goose   (2),  57 
Sweet  potato  croquettes,  48 
Sweet  potatoes,  45 

Baked,  45 

Boiled,  45 

Browned,  46 

Fried,  47 

Glazed,  46 

With  apples,  47 

With   orange,  47 
Swiss  potatoes,  29 


Tomato  sauce,  22 

V 

Vegetables,  Puree  of,  64 


QO 


N   106   89  i* 


«5°^ 


r.6   »0^ 

\y  .-gate.  v<* 


°o 


<lV  ^ 


***«■ 


,4-  *       *   vTv    *     *  *         v       ••^vMaJr*      <iv        va      «ti 


c,  or* 


