Google 


This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world’s books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difficult to discover. 


Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book’s long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 


Usage guidelines 
Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 


public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 


We also ask that you: 


+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individual 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 


and we request that you use these files for 


+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 


+ Maintain attribution The Google “watermark” you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 


+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 


About Google Book Search 


Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 
ai[http: //books . google. com/| 


vores Google 


-9N 


THE BOOK OF 


PRICELESS RECIPES 


COMPILED BY 


THE MANAGERS OF THE HAHNEMANN HOSPITAL 
ASSOCIATION, AND SOLD FOR THE BENE- 
FIT OF HAHNEMANN HOSPITAL 


For Sale in the Office at Hahnemann Hospital 


‘ PHILADELPHIA, PA. 
GRORGE F, LASHER, PRINTER 
1907 


C4). O/9F 
Push 


DEDICATED TO ALL THOSE WHO HAVE 
GENEROUSLY AND UNSELFISHLY 
HELPED TO FOUND AND 
MAINTAIN THE 
HAHNEMANN HOSPITAL 


Maids, brides, and matrons, these recipes 
Follow with care, the “ guid mon” to please. 


From nourishing soup and toothsome fish 
And French boiled ham (which he will relish), 
To delicious cakes, desserts galore— 

Pies, ices, puddings—he'll ask for more, 


So, pay the price—we'll make a good cook 
Of you who use the “ Hahnemann Book.” 


PREFACE. 


We send forth this book hoping it may meet with 
much favor and be found a useful help in the routine 
of daily life. 

Most, if not all, the recipes it contains have been 
gathered from private sources and are the favorites 
of many households. Some of them have been in use 
more than a hundred years. 

It has been our endeavor to get only well-tried 
and hitherto unpublished recipes, and we assure our 
patrons that if our directions are carefully followed 
success will attend their efforts. 

The question, “What shall we eat?” appeals so 
differently to each one, but we know that our health 
and comfort depend more upon the answer to that 
question than to any other one thing in life. Then, 
why is it not both dignified and wise to give the sub- 
ject thought and study and take up the daily problem 
with energy and a high sense of the duty we owe our 
families in this regard? 

Compared with even twenty years ago, our tables 
are quite different. We have more ceremony now in 
the service of food, but a far lighter diet is encouraged, 
and though living is not less costly health is undoubt- 
edly benefited by the use of less meat and a wiser com- 
bination of foods. 

In the early fifties of the past century, and in one 
of the old-fashioned but roomy Pine street mansions 


5 


of that day, a gentleman said to his wife one winter 
morning, “We must entertain our friends who ar- 
rived from the West last week; can you have them 
to supper to-night? I will see William and invite 
them. I want them to have the best the market af- 
fords, especially terrapin and waffles—Jane makes 
such good waffles—and they are all first-class house- 
keepers, you know.” The notice was short and the 
day not altogether convenient, but the task was under- 
taken, and at half-past six Mr. and Mrs. C. sat 
awaiting their guests, everything ready and a delicious 
and bountiful supper provided. A quarter of an hour 
passed, when Mrs. C. remarked, “It is strange they 
are late; can they be detained by the weather ?”—for 
it was snowing and a cold night. Her husband looked 
up from his evening paper and said, with sudden 
recollection in his countenance, “Why, Lizzie, I forgot 
to invite them!” Hastily donning great coat and hat, 
he went out in the dreary night; taking the omnibus 
at his door, he soon arrived at his brother-in-law’s 
house and found them all sitting down to supper. 
With much energy he explained the situation and told 
of the waiting banquet, hustled them out and in less 
than an hour had his supper party enjoying the feast 
spread for them. 

Moral—Before you have planned and cooked 
your dinner do not forget to invite your guests. 


CONTRIBUTORS. 


Thanks are extended to the following contributors: 


Mrs. C. P. Allen: 
Mrs. Robert Gover Allen 
Mrs. G. J. H. Appledorn. 
Miss Emily Ash....... 
Mrs, Charles D, Barney. 
Miss Alice B. Barr...... 
Mrs. Henry Bingham (1875). 
Mrs. Josephine E. Buckman. 
Mrs. John C. Bullitt (1879) 
Mrs. John M. Butler. 
Mrs. J. C. Caffrey. 
Mrs. J. E. Chace. 
Mrs. E. Clark... 
Mrs. L. M. D. Clark. Washington, D. C. 
Mrs. J. Thompson Cole. 
Mrs. Henry D. Cooke. 
Mrs. Jay Cooke, Jr. -Philadelphia, Pa. 
Mrs. J. Lewis Croze: Upland, Pa. 
Mrs. Anna Howell: Dodge. -New York 
Miss Elizabeth Fay... 
Miss Elizabeth Farmer. 
Mrs. Mary B, Gamble... 
Elizabeth Comfort Gerhart. 
Mrs. F. C. Gillingham... 
Mrs. N. McKee Graham. 
Mrs. E. F. Grundy... 
Mrs. Oliver S. Haines. 


hiladelphia, Pa. 
-Rhode Island 


ins Park, Pa. 
.Cynwyd, Pa. 
Pittsburg, Pa. 
hiladelphia, Pa. 
-Philadelphia, Pa. 
Bayridge, N. Y. 
New York, N. Y. 
Chestnut Hill, Pa. 
Wilkesbarre 


Baltimore, Md. 
. Wayne, Pa. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
Arrington, Va. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 


Miss E. Harrison.... 
Mrs. Margaret Hess. 
Miss Eva J. Hood. 
Miss Isaetta Hubard. 
Mrs. C. P. Janney. 
Miss Mary Janney. 
Mrs. E. M. Jenkins. -New York, N. Y. 
Mrs. M. G. P. Jenkins. Philadelphia, Pa. 
Mrs. Francis P. Jones..........:-00sceeeceeeeeeeae teense . 
Mrs, George Kelly. Hillside, Pa. 
Mrs. E. C. Kieffer. Sandusky, O. 
Mrs. Edward Kirby. . 
Mrs. George Kirby. 
Mrs. Anna R. Little. 
Mrs. Elizabeth Lohman. 
Miss Beatrice McGeorge. 
Mrs. McCown ...... . 
Mrs. H. G. Michener. Philadelphi 7 
i Philadelphia, Pa. 


Pottsville, Pa, 
‘Gibraltar Island, O. 
Cynwyd, Pa. 


Miss Isabel Miller. 
Mrs. E. Moore. 
M. M. Moore... 
Miss Ida E. Morrel oo 
Mrs. A. Hennen Morris. “Avalon,” New York 
Mrs. T. E. Morris........ 0.0.20 00 cceccecesceeeeneeeeeeeee 
Mrs. Valentine Morris. Philadelphia, Pa. 
Mrs. John Moss, Jr Philadelphia, Pa. 
Mrs. W. C. Nice 
Miss Etta Nowell 
Miss Onderdonk.. 
Anna J. Orme..... 
Mrs. C. W. Packer. 
Mrs. Oliver H. Paxson 
Mrs. R. R. Paxson. 
Mrs. Eva Peterson. 
Mrs, S. B. Phillips. os 
Mr. E. D. Picot. aeeaee 
Miss Pierce..... 
Mrs. Charles A. Potter. 
Mrs. E. T. Pugh. 
Mrs. J. B. Ritter. 
Mrs, H. H. Roelofs 


Phoenixville, Pa. 


‘Oxford Valley, Pa. 


Philadelphia, Pa. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
Sahask 
York 


- Ashbourne, on 


Asheville, N. C. 
- Westchester, New York City 
Cheltenham, Pa. 
.Dayton, O. 


Mrs. H. T. Rogers. 
Mrs. E. H. Rosenquest. 
Mrs. Benjamin Rowland 
Mrs. V. A. Sanford 
Mrs. E. Schlenk. 
Mrs, Lavinia C. Schlater. 
Mrs. E. K. Schmit. 
Mrs. Wilford Schoff. 
Mrs. A. E. Scott... 
Mrs. J. P. E. Scott. 
Mrs. Severin. 
Mrs. Charles L. Smit! 
Miss Anna M. Smyth 
Mrs. 
Mrs. 
Mrs. John B. Stetson... 
Mrs. Napoleon Stetson. 
Miss Swayne..... tees 
Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 
Mrs. A. R. Thomas. 
Mrs. Avery Thomas. 
Mrs. Charles M. Thomas 
Miss H. E. Thomas. 
Miss Thomas. . 
Mrs. T. W. Tompkins 
Mrs. William H. Tomlinson. 
Mrs, Walker 
Miss Walker... 
Mrs. Georgene Waters 
Miss Evelyn Whitaker 
Mrs. M. J. C. Whitaker. 
Mrs. Matilda R. Whitner. 
Mrs. Williams . 
Miss Williams. 
Mrs. Dillwyn Wistar. 
Mrs. Mary Bunting Wolff. 
Mrs. F, G. Yates....... 


. Philadelphia, Pa. 


-Philadelphia, Pa. 
Doylestown, Pa. 


ew York, N.Y. 
‘Philadelphia, Pa. 


. Ashbourne, Pa. 


Philadelphia, Pa. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
-Dayton, O. 
-Devon, Pa. 
Chicago, IIL 


.Philadelphia, Pa. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
Pottsville, Pa. 


-Philadelphia, Pa. 
Chestnut Hill, Pa. 
...Baltimore, Md. 


The committee has tried to get all the names of contrib- 
utors, 


9 


I. HORS D’OEUVRES. 


COLD CRAB MEAT FOR SIX PERSONS. 


Take the meat of twelve boiled crabs and cut up 
finely. One cup thick Mayonnaise seasoned with mus- 
tard. Mix with the crab meat. Serve on toast or the 
bottom of artichokes and decorate with tomato 
jelly. Mrs. Eva Peterson, New York City. 


FRESH FRUIT SHERBET. 

A handful of beautiful cherries with their fresh 
leaves served on each little plate; two or three plums 
of contrasting colors, laid on pretty leaves; a bunch 
of splendid grapes with the grape leaves and little 
tendrils; half a cantaloupe filled with cracked ice— 
any of these make a delicious beginning for luncheon, 
or ceremonious breakfast, or dinner, on a hot day. 

Beatrice McGeorge. 


FRUIT COCKTAILS. 

Two grape fruit, four bananas, four oranges, 
two dozen white grapes, Maraschino cherries for 
decoration, as desired; sugar to taste. Cut grape 
fruit in halves, remove seeds and scoop out pulp. Do 
the same with the oranges. Peel and slice bananas. 
Cut white grapes in half lengthwise and remove seeds. 
Mix well with sugar and stand on ice until very cold. 
Serve in wine glasses, on little plates. 

Beatrice McGeorge. 
pas 


OYSTER COCKTAILS. 


Place six small fresh oysters in each sherry glass. 
Add the juice of half a lemon, half a teaspoonful 
of salt, two drops of Tabasco sauce, half a teaspoonful 
horseradish, one teaspoonful tomato catsup. Mix 
thoroughly. Place wine glasses on little plates, 
Serve very cold. This is equally good with clams in 
hot weather. 

This recipe is for one person only. Repeat as de- 
sired. Beatrice McGeorge. 


PINEAPPLE POINTS. 

Cut thoroughly chilled pineapples into pointed 
sections, formed by cutting around each little penta- 
gon of the husk toward the centre. Arrange in a 
circle on little plates, with the points inside. Put a 
heaping tablespoonful of pulverized sugar in the 
middle of the dish. Beatrice McGeorge. 


STUFFED LEMONS. 


Twelve lemons, one box sardines, one dozen 
olives, bunch of watercress or nasturtions. Cut the 
tops off the lemons and scrape out the inside. Also 
cut off a small slice at the bottom so they will stand 
upright and fill with the watercress, lemons, sar- 
dines and olives mixed with Mayonnaise and chopped 
very fine. Put on the top of the lemon. Stand on 
a small plate surrounded with a wreath of watercress 
or nasturtion and serve. Mrs. Severin. 


A UNIQUE DESSERT. 
Cut cantaloupes in half. Fill in with balls of ripe 
watermelon and cover with finely-chopped ice. 
Mrs. M. J. C. Whitaker, 
12 


II. SOUPS. 


ASPARAGUS SOUP. 


One pint of asparagus cut in pieces the size of 
dice, using the tender part only. Drop the asparagus 
in two quarts of boiling water slightly salted, to pre- 
serve the color of the asparagus. Let it boil about 
thirty minutes, or until tender. Mix one tablespoon- 
ful of flour with two of butter and make smooth in 
one cup of cream or milk. Stir into the boiling soup 
first befofe serving. Season with salt and pepper 
and serve with small squares of toasted bread. 

Mrs. Charles D. Barney. 


BAKED BEAN SOUP. 


Three cups cold baked beans, three pints water, 
two slices of onion, two stalks of celery, one and one- 
half cups of stewed and strained tomatoes. Mash 
the beans through a coarse sieve or vegetable press 
into the boiling water, add the tomatoes and onion, 
salt and pepper to taste. Cook all together for half an 
hour, then thicken with one tablespoonful each of 
butter and flour and one-half a tablespoonful of chili 
sauce. Mrs. L. M. D. Clark, Washington, D. C. 

13 


BLACK BEAN SOUP. 


One pint black beans, two quarts cold water, two 
teaspoonfuls salt, two saltspoonfuls pepper, pinch of 
cayenne, one tablespoonful flour, two tablespoonfuls 
butter, one lemon, two hard boiled eggs. 

Mrs. E, H. Rosenquest. 


BLACK BEAN SOUP. 


Four quarts water, one quart Mexican black 
beans, three pounds beef or veal. Boil until the beans 
are quite soft, strain off liquor, mash the beans 
through a colander into the soup and return to the 
kettle. Cook half an hour longer. Season, and just 
before serving add the juice of a lemon, and sherry 
to taste. Cut three hard boiled eggs and a lemon in 
slices and serve with the soup. 

1875. Mrs. Henry Bingham. 


BLACK BEAN SOUP, No. 1 


One pint black beans, one and one-half pounds 
beef, one lemon, three stalks of celery or celery seed, 
one dozen cloves. Soak the beans over night and put 
on in the morning with the meat, celery and cloves 
in about two quarts of water and boil three hours. 
Strain the soup, add the juice of the lemon, sherry to 
taste, and season with salt and pepper. Serve with 
slices of hard boiled eggs and lemon. 

. Mrs. W. W. Harding. 
14 


BLACK BEAN SOUP, No. 2. 


One pint of beans soaked over night in one quart 
of cold water, add another quart and boil several 
hours until beans are quite soft. Boil with it celery 
tops. Strain and add piece of lemon and yolk of egg. 

August, 1899. Mrs. W. W. Harding. 


CLAM BISQUE. 


. Steam four dozen clams until shells open, remove 
from shells and chop fine. Strain the liquor, heat and 
skim. Heat four cups of milk and stir into it, one- 
half cup butter rubbed with three rounding table- 
spoonfuls flour. Cook five minutes after it boils. 
Season with a little cayenne pepper, add the hot clam 
liquor and the chopped clams and when all reaches 
the boiling point, but not actually boils, stir in the 
soup. Some cooks leave the chopped clams in the 
bisque, and, while it tastes well, it is not as delicate 
as when strained, which leaves it of a smooth, creamy 
consistency. Mrs. J. C. Caffrey. 


CLAM BROTH FOR TWELVE PERSONS. 


Eighty clams, one quart of the clam liquor, one 
quart of milk and cream mixed, one tablespoonful of 
flour, four small spoonfuls of butter, one small onion 
and parsley. Scald the clams in their liquor. When 
well scalded skim them carefully and cut the soft 
part away and return hard part to the liquor, with 
the onion, parsley and seasoning. Cook half an hour. 
Heat the milk and cream to boiling point, thicken with 

15 


two tablespoonfuls flour and one of butter. Mash soft 
part of clams through a coarse sieve or vegetable 
press. At the last moment add the purée of clams to 
the milk and strain in the hot clam liquor. Serve 
with one spoonful of whipped cream to each cup or 
plate. Mrs. Jay Cooke, Jr. 


CLAM SOUP. 


Take thirty clams, strain the juice and wash the 
clams. Then chop the clams up very fine. Put the 
liquor on and boil, then take the scum off, add the 
clams and boil three-quarters of an hour, with pot 
herbs and two onions cut in half all tied in a bag. 
Take a pint of cream, tablespoonful of flour and one- 
quarter pound of butter and let come to a boil; put 
it in the soup and let it all come to a boil. Then serve. 


CLAM SOUP. 


Twenty-five clams chopped fine, add two quarts 
and a pint of cold water. Boil one-half an hour, then 
add one pint of new milk, one onion chopped fine. 
Boil milk before adding to clams. Thicken with but- 
ter and flour rubbed together. Beat three eggs and 
put in tureen. Pour the soup into it while boiling 
hot, stirring briskly. 


CLAM SOUP. 


To fifty clams take two quarts of water, the 
liquor off the clams, a small lump of butter, a little 
thyme, some parsley, salt and pepper to taste, two 
large potatoes cut fine, one onion cut fine. Wash the 

16 


clams and cut them fine. Boil potatoes and onion 
separately until tender, then add one cup of cream. 
Roll the butter and little flour together. Just before 
you lift the soup put it in to thicken it. The clams 
go in last of all, as they are done as soon as they bol 
up once. Have six hard boiled eggs, the whites 
chopped fine and yolks rubbed smooth, and stir in the 
soup. Very good. (“M. Pitman.”) 
Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


CONSOMME. 


Two pounds bone of beef, three carrots, two tur- 
nips, three onions, season to taste. After the bone is 
well cooked, take a saucepan, break into it four eggs 
with two pounds of beef hashed fine. The liquor of 
bone strain off and let boil one and one-half hours. 
Strain the soup through flannel until clear. Take care 
to mix the juice of bone not too warm so the eggs 
are not stopped to clear the consommé. Two cloves or 
thyme adds to the flavor. If you get one old fowl 
that day, put it in and boil with it. 

Mrs. M. J. C. Whitaker. 


CREAM OF CORN SOUP. 


Six ears of boiled corn cut from the cob, two 
quarts of milk, one tablespoonful of flour, one table- 
spoonful of butter, yolks of three hard boiled eggs, 
salt, red pepper and parsley to taste. Heat the milk 
to boiling point, mix flour, butter and yolks of eggs 
smooth with a little cold milk. Add to the hot milk. 
Season. Put in the corn and serve. 

1879. Mrs. John C. Bullitt. 

7 


FISH BROTH (ALSO CALLED A LA 
LUCALLUS). 


From Pror. Pierre Biot’s Cook Boox. 


Slice three middling-sized onions and fry them 
with one ounce of butter till turning yellow, add three 
or four pounds of fish (bass, pike, trout, salmon, and 
the like), any fish having a firm and compact flesh, 
of one or several kinds; add also two carrots, two 
onions and one leek, all sliced; four stalks of parsley, 
one of thyme, one clove of garlic, a bay leaf, one 
clove, six peppercorns, salt, cover the whole with 
cold water, set on a good but not brisk fire, boil 
gently for about two hours. If the water is boiling 
away add some more, then strain and use. 

This broth may be used for bisque and fish sauces 
instead of beef broth. 

It may be made rich. For instance: instead of 
three pounds of fish use six, seven, eight pounds, or 
more, and seasoning in proportion. 

Louis XV was on a visit to the monastery of 
Saint Denis one day during Lent. After having 
walked all over the grounds and gardens he was of- 
fered a cup of broth by the superior. 

Being a little fatigued he took the cup and drank 
the whole at one draught. 

In going back to Versailles one of his suite, who 
did not like the monk-superior, adroitly alluded to 
the cup of broth, and managed to persuade the king 
that the monk had done it on purpose; that is, had 
made the king partake of meat broth when it was 
forbidden by the Church. 

The next day the monk-superior was sent for 
and brought before the king. On hearing the object 

18 


of the summons he asked the king if the broth had 
indisposed him. Being answered in the negative he 
begged to be allowed to prepare the same broth before 
the king himself, which he did, and from that time 
till his death the king used to send several pounds of 
fish during Lent to the monks of Saint Denis. 


MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

One calf’s head, five ounces flour, five quarts cold 
water, one tablespoonful mixed spices, two onions, 
two wine glasses sherry wine, pepper, salt, five ounces 
butter, one tablespoonful mushroom ketchup, two raw 
eggs, one sliced lemon. Soak the head one hour. 
Put it on in five quarts cold water. When it boils 
skim carefully and allow it to boil till the tongue 
comes out and bones. Take out the tongue and flesh 
from cheeks, then turn back the bones, etc., to the 
soup and let it boil four hours, adding the onions. 
Strain it, and when cold remove the fat. Cut up the 
cheek and tongue into square pieces. Cut up very 
finely the rest of the meat that comes from the head. 
In a large saucepan melt the five ounces of butter and 
add the flour. When mixed well add the soup, the 
mixed spices and the square-cut pieces of meat. Let 
it cook for ten minutes. To the chopped meat add 
two raw eggs, mix well, then pepper, salt, a little dry 
flour until you can form it into balls. Grease a plate, 
put on the balls and put in hot oven for three minutes 
to brown. In a tureen put the sliced lemon, wine and 
ketchup, then the balls. Just before pouring over the 
soup add to it a few drops of caramel, then pour it 
over the lemon, wine, etc., and let it stand five minutes 
before serving. (“Miss Dod.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 
19 


MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 


Clean a calf’s head well, removing the brains. 
Wash the latter in cold water and lay aside until 
needed. Let the head and meat boil in enough water 
to cover until tender. Remove every particle of meat 
and bone from the soup. Put the meat in a chopping 
bowl. Add the brains and chop all together quite 
fine. Brown a small teacupful of flour and mix well 
with one-quarter pound of butter. Add a little grated 
nutmeg, one teaspoonful of black pepper, one-half of 
red pepper, one tablespoonful of ground spices and 
salt to taste, four hard boiled eggs chopped fine. Re- 
turn all this to the liquor and let it boil one-half hour. 
Sliced lemon may be added. 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


OATMEAL SOUP. 


To any good lamb or beef broth add half a cup- 
ful of oatmeal, either raw or cooked. Cook thoroughly 
and strain carefully. This is a very old German rec- 
ipe. Mrs. Schlenk. 


STOCK FOR SOUP, A LA REINE, 


One fowl (old), pepper, salt, onion, two quarts 
cold water, piece of parsley. Put on the fowl in cold 
water and let it boil. Then put in the onion, pepper, 
salt and parsley and let it simmer slowly one hour. 
Then remove the white meat from the breast, return 
the rest to the soup and let it cook two hours longer. 
Strain it and let it cool. 

20 


SOUP A LA REINE. 


Remove the fat from the stock, put the stock in 
a saucepan and let it boil. Put in a bowl three gills 
of cream, pepper and salt, the chopped white meat 
of the fowl rubbed through a sieve, mix it well and 
mix a little of it with the stock. Then return all to 
the kettle of stock and just let it come to a boil. 
(“Miss Dod.”) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


STOCK FOR CLEAR SOUPS. 


Two pounds shin of beef (middle cut), one-half 
root of celery, small piece of turnip, large piece of 
carrot, one teaspoonful of white and black pepper 
(whole), six or eight cloves, small onion (soaked 
some hours in boiling water), five pints cold water, 
one-half dessertspoonful salt. Cut the beef in small 
pieces, put in the saucepan, then pour over the cold 
water, put it over the hot fire and let it boil quickly. 
The instant it boils skim it carefully, then throw in 
the salt and skim again. Cut the celery and add with 
the pepper, cloves, onion, carrot and turnip, then 
simmer slowly for five hours. Strain it and let it 
cool. Remove the fat, pour the stock into a clean 
saucepan and let it get warm. Take the whites of 
two eggs (use shells also if clean), add a little pepper 
and salt and one-half gill of water, mix well and add 
to the stock. Whisk it until it boils. Let it boil for a 
few minutes, then strain through a cloth. 

Italian Soup.—Slice turnip and carrot in very 
thin slices, cut out small rounds, also leeks, put them 
in boiling water and let boil twenty minutes; drain 
water off, then pour over hot, clear soup. 

au 


Julienne Soup.—Cut the turnip and carrot in 
thin shreds, put in boiling water and boil five minutes, 
pour off water and add the hot clear soup. 

Macaroni or Vermicelli Soup.—Cook it soft in 
water, drain and add the soup. 

Brown Soup.—Add a few drops of caramel to 
the clear soup. (“Miss Dod.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


TOMATO BISQUE SOUP. 


Two coffee cups of tomatoes and a pint of good 
white soup stock. Boil these together ten minutes and 
strain through a puree strainer. Put back over the 
fire and season with pepper, salt and butter, adding 
soda, as in the ordinary tomato soup. Put in a quart 
of boiling milk, and in addition two tablespoonfuls of 
arrowroot mixed in a little cold water or milk. Stir 
constantly until soup is thickened. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


Il. FISH, OYSTERS AND SHELL 
FISH. 


KATIE DUKE’S CODFISH BALLS. 


One quart codfish picked fine, one quart potatoes 
cut size of walnut. Cover the codfish and potatoes 
with cold water until potatoes are done; then take off 
and strain through colander dry, mash with potato 
masher, add one tablespoonful of butter, yolks of two 
eggs or tablespoonful of cream. Mould into round 
balls and drop into hot fat. Lay on brown paper to 
soak up grease. Mrs, E. H. Rosenquest. 


CODFISH BALLS. 


Take whole salt codfish-and wash in cold water, 
put on the fire in water and scald; do this three 
times. Pick finely and stir into the same quantity 
of fresh hot mashed potatoes with a large piece of 
butter in it. Stir in three well beaten eggs and mould 
into cakes or balls and fry half covered with lard or 
in butter on the pan. Mrs. H. H. Roelofs. 


CODFISH BALLS. 


Put codfish to soak about six o’clock P. M.; 
about eight o’clock drain off the water and pick very 
fine. Set away until morning. In the morning boil 
and mash more than twice the same quantity of po- 

23 


tatoes, add a large piece of butter and beaten yolks of 
two eggs; sprinkle in the codfish and beat very light. 
Form into cakes and fry. 

Mrs. Elizabeth Lohman, Gibraltar Island, Ohio. 


CRAB CAKES. 


Meat of one dozen crabs, one teacupful of bread 
crumbs, one piece melted butter the size of a walnut, 
four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, one teaspoonful of 
mustard, pepper and salt, a little cayenne pepper. 
Make into cakes and fry. Remove from the pan and 
make a cream gravy with a little thickening. Serve 


gravy separately. 
DEVILED CLAMS. 


Forty medium sized clams, one cup of cream, 
three tablespoonfuls of butter, two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of flour, chopped parsley, cayenne and black 
pepper to taste. 

Drain the clams well and beat them, chop very 
fine, make a sauce of the cream, butter and flour, mix 
all together, cover well with bread crumbs and put 
about six or seven small pieces of butter on top of the 
bread crumbs and bake in the oven. 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


DEVILED CLAMS. 


Sixty clams, four tablespoonfuls of butter, four 
tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, yolks of six eggs, a 
little mustard, salt and pepper to taste. Melt butter, 
stir in bread crumbs, then the clams, perfectly drained 
and chopped fine; let them boil up once, then add 

24 


seasoning and eggs; boil once more, take from fire, 
cool, dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry. 
Mrs. E. Clark. 


DEVILED CLAMS. 


One hundred clams, rinsed and dried; chop fine; 
one-half pound of butter, a small piece of onion, 
chopped fine and cooked in the butter; clams cooked 
one-quarter of an hour; one quart of bread crumbs, 
milk enough to wet it; a little nutmeg and black pep- 
per, yolks of eight eggs, a little parsley thrown in 
when taken from the fire, the eggs just before taken 
from the fire. Let cool, then fill into half clam shells, 
sprinkle with cracker dust or bread crumbs and brown 
in hot oven. Mrs. Georgene Waters. 


DEVILED OYSTERS. 


Drain fifty oysters, add eight whole allspice, put 
over the fire to simmer until the edges curl; drain 
them and let them cool, then chop them fine, season 
with cayenne pepper and salt. Make a sauce with 
cream, butter and flour (for this: four ounces of 
butter, one-half a cup rich cream and flour enough 
to thicken); put in oysters, and when cold fill the 
oyster shells, cover with bread crumbs, placing a small 
piece of butter on each one; put in hot oven to brown. 

Mrs. Katharine Spencer. 


FRICASSEE OYSTERS. 


Fifty fine oysters, one-half pint cream, one-quar- 
ter pound butter, two spoonfuls browned flour, yolk 
of one egg. 

Drain the oysters one hour, put in pan; when 

25 


lukewarm stir in the cream until boiling, then add 
the others (after beating the butter, flour and yolk 
to a cream) ; serve on toast. 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


HALIBUT A LA CREME. 


One pound boiled fish, two ounces butter, two 
ounces flour, one ounce grated cheese or bread crumbs, 
one-half pint milk, one gill cream. Melt the butter 
in a saucepan, then add the dry flour; when mixed 
smooth add the milk, stir it till it boils, then add the 
cream, a little pepper and salt; let it cook two min- 
utes, break the fish in rough pieces, throw it into the 
sauce and let it heat through. Turn it out on a flat 
dish, sprinkle over the cheese or bread crumbs, a 
little pepper, and brown jt in a hot oven quickly. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


LOBSTER A LA NEWBERG. 


Split two good sized, fine, freshly boiled lobsters, 
pick meat from shells and cut into inch long pieces, 
place them in saucepan on hot range with a table- 
spoonful of very good, fresh butter; season with one 
large pinch of salt and same amount of red pepper; 
cook for five minutes, then add two wine glasses of 
good madeira or old sherry; boil for three minutes, 
then set aside. Now beat yolks of three eggs very 
light, add to them one-half pint of rich sweet cream 
and a cup of milk. Put the whole in a separate sauce- 
pan and heat very hot; stir into it a teaspoonful of 
cornstarch, which has been dissolved in cold water, 
and add the mixture to the lobster; stir gently for a 

26 


minute longer, turn into hot tureen or chafing dish 
and have hot plates ready. 
Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


MOCK TERRAPIN FOR BREAKFAST. 


Season and fry brown some calf’s liver, cut in 
small pieces, dredge thick with flour and put them 
in pan with a large piece of butter, mustard, salt 
and pepper, two hatd boiled eggs chopped fine; stir 
until it thickens, then add a little water. 

Mrs. E. Clark. 


OYSTERS. 


Two hundred oysters. Take one-quarter pound 
of butter, brown it in a saucepan, then drain the 
oysters, put them in the butter with a little parsley 
chopped fine, little red and black pepper and salt. 
When the oysters are right hot mix two small table- 
spoonfuls of flour and a good piece of butter together, 
stir it in, and when it boils stir in the yolks of six eggs. 

From M. J. Caldwell. Used for years in mother’s 
family. E. F. Grundy. 


OYSTERS A LA CHAMBERLAIN. 


Drain free from all liquor fifty fat oysters and 
put them in chafing dish, stir carefully with wooden 
spoon until oysters begin to curl up, then cut one- 
quarter pound of butter in small bits and put in the 
dish. Add one-half cup of cream, one teaspoonful 
of salt and a dash of cayenne. When oysters are 
done put out the lamp, add two tablespoonfuls of 
madeira or sherry. Serve at once. 

Miss Evelyn L. Whitaker, 
27 


OYSTERS A LA CREME. 


Twenty-five large oysters. Boil five minutes, 
drain and chop not too fine; add a little grated nut- 
meg, one teaspoonful of grated onion, one tablespoon- 
ful of chopped parsley. 

Dressing.—Three and one-half tablespoons of 
butter put in a saucepan to melt, two and one-half 
tablespoons of flour. Mix well together, then add 
one gill of milk, boil two minutes, stirring all the time. 

Add one gill of cream and mix with the oysters 
and seasoning. Put into a baking dish and cover 
with bread crumbs and a few small pieces of butter; 
heat through and brown in the oven. 

M. M. Moore. 


OYSTERS, PAN ROAST. 


Two tablespoonfuls of butter, one pint of oysters, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, cayenne to taste. Put 
the butter, oysters and their liquor into the chafing 
dish; add seasoning, cover and cook until edges of 
oysters curl. Serve on buttered toast. 

Miss Evelyn Whitaker. 


PICKLED OYSTERS. 


Heat the oysters in the liquor—not cook them— 
drain, throw in cold water, dry on a cloth; put the 
liquor on the fire, season with white pepper, allspice, 
cloves and mace; boil till seasoned, skim thoroughly ; 
when cold pour over the oysters, adding salt, pepper 
and vinegar, of which they absorb a great deal. 

Mrs. J. Thompson Cole. 
2B 


PIGS IN BLANKETS. 


Clean and season large oysters with salt and pep- 
per, wrap each oyster in a slice of thin bacon, pinning 
it with a wooden toothpick. Cook them in the chafing 
dish until bacon is crisp. Miss Evelyn Whitaker. 


SALT CODFISH CAKES. 

Two pounds codfish, four pounds potatoes, one 
egg, small piece of butter and pepper. Soak fish 
over night; in the morning put on fire to cook in 
cold water, let it come to boiling point, then draw 
saucepan to one side and let fish steam, but do not 
let it boil, When done remove bones and drain; add 
the hot boiled potatoes and mash all together; season 
with pepper and salt, add the butter and egg, beaten 
light. Make into cakes and fry. Fresh fish can be 
used in same way. Ogontz Lodge, Pa. 


SPICED OYSTERS. 

Two hundred oysters, two dozen cloves, five dozen 
allspice, mace, cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Strain 
the liquor through a sieve, put it in a saucepan and 
add the oysters, spice, pepper, salt and one-half pint 
vinegar ; place them over a slow fire, and as soon as 
they boil take them off; pour them into a large bowl 
and set them away to cool; when cold, put them in 
Mason jars. Mrs. Henry G. Taylor. 


TERRAPIN A LA BALTIMORE. 

Cut off the head of the terrapin and put it im- 
mediately with the head into boiling water and cook 
fifteen or twenty minutes, then take out and pull out 
the little toe-nails and the black skin as much as will 
come off easily. Put back in a vessel of clear boiling 

29 


water and cook from one-half to three-quarters of an 
hour, according to size of terrapin. Take out and 
carefully remove the balance of the black skin; take 
off the shell, using all but the entrails. Save the juice 
that comes from the terrapin while preparing it. 
Shred the meat fine and put in a frying pan with 
juice and one-quarter pound of butter. When thor- 
oughly hot add the terrapin eggs, if any, or the yolks 
of five or six hard boiled hen eggs rubbed smooth 
in the butter. Season highly with pepper, salt and 
a dash of cayenne. Add rich cream enough to make 
a gravy. Do not use any flour. Lastly, add from 
one-quarter to one-half pint of sherry wine, accord- 
ing to size of terrapin, and serve at once very hot, 
with whites of hard boiled eggs cut up on top. 
Mrs. Robert Gover Allen. 


THREE TERRAPIN. 

Put into boiling water and boil rapidly for ten 
or fifteen minutes or until nails come out and back 
skin rubs off. After this put into fresh boiling water 
and boil until connecting shell cracks, about fifty 
minutes. Remove gall and sandbags. Cut up, saving 
all the juice in terrapins. If not quite tender put in 
pan with a little butter and stew. Boil six eggs hard 
and drop in cold water, take yolks and mash fine 
with two tablespoonfuls of flour. Make smooth with 
a little terrapin water or cream. Put quarter tea- 
spoonful of mace, one gill or half of cream on fire, 
add half a pound of butter. Season with salt, pepper 
and cayenne. When boiling stir in eggs and flour, 
let boil up once, and when thick add one and a half 
tumblers of wine. Pour over terrapin and serve. 

Mrs. J. B. Moorehead. 
30 


IV. MEATS, 


BAKED LIVER. 


Take a calf’s liver, season it with pepper, salt 
and parsley. Lard it with strips of pork or bacon and 
baste frequently. This can be elaborated by braising 
it with small vegetables and meat trimmings cooked 
under liver. Bake in slow oven for two hours. 

Mrs. George Kelly. 


BEEF BALLS. 


Take one round steak and hash as fine as possible 
with two slices of fresh bread and salt. Beat up three 
eggs and stir well with the meat. Put in melted butter, 
make into a loaf. Put a little water in the bottom of 
a dish, and bake slowly one hour. Slice cold for sup- 
per. Mrs. E. C. Kieffer. 


FOR CURING BEEF TONGUE. 


Make a brine which. will hold an egg—two and 
one-half gallons water, one-half gallon salt. Add one 
cup of sugar and one teaspoonful of saltpetre. Keep 
the tongue covered with this for two weeks, then 
pass a cord through the thin end and smoke for a 
few days until it is slightly brown. 

3t 


CHICKEN AND OKRA. 


To four-pound chicken take one-quarter pound 
of ham cut in dice, cut chicken up and brown with 
ham; remove chicken; make gravy with flour, add 
four tomatoes, three onions cut fine, salt, pepper, little 
parsley, couple of cloves, small piece of bay leaf; put 
chicken in and stew slowly two and a half hours. 
Twenty minutes before chicken is done add one quart 
of okra cut in small pieces. Serve with a border of 
boiled rice. (By a Southern cook.) 

Mrs. Valentine Morris. 


CREAMED CHICKEN. 


One pint cooked chicken cut in small pieces, 
one cupful of cream, one tablespoonful of butter, one 
tablespoonful of flour, yolks of two eggs, speck of 
cayenne, one teaspoonful of salt. - Melt the butter in 
the chafing dish, stir in the flour gradually, add cream 
slowly, then add chicken and seasoning. Let simmer 
until chicken is thoroughly heated; add the beaten 
yolks of the eggs. Serve at once. 

Miss Evelyn Whitaker. 


CROWN ROAST OF LAMB. 


Both ribs should be used to make a good circle. 
They must be sewed together to make a good crown. 
The backbone has to be cut through and the meat 
trimmed down from the ribs to the “eye” of meat. 
This long strip is not removed, but turned down, 
partially filling the center of the crown. To keep the 
bones from burning black they have to be wrapped in 
oil paper or strips of salt pork. The crown has to 
be tied or skewered to keep the bones equally distant 

32 


from one another. When buttered papers are used, 
then baste the meat with salt pork fat or that from 
bacon during the hour it will take to cook the meat. 
Decorate the ends of the ribs with frilled papers, such 
as many persons make from slashed double papers 
to catch candle wax. Wind these well down the rib. 
Fill the center of the crown with browned potatoes 
and place tender green peas around the crown in 
dish. Make a mint sauce as usual. 
Mrs, Henry P. Taylor. 


TO COOK A HAM. 

Boil a ham for three hours, remove the skin and 
trim nicely. Rub into the fat one pound of powdered 
sugar, or as much as it will take. The ham is then 
placed in a dripping pan, in which is placed one pint 
of wine, and put in the oven. Bake very slowly for 
two hours. Baste frequently. 

Old-fashioned way, but, oh! it is good. 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


BOILED HAM, FRENCH STYLE. 


Wash the ham thoroughly, then plunge it in your 
boiler of boiling hot water. When it again starts 
boiling let it cook slowly for two and a half hours. 
Take from water, trim off the brown skin, place ham 
in baking pan; have one cup of vinegar and one-half 
cup brown sugar mixed. Decorate ham with whole 
cloves, pour over the sugar and vinegar and bake in 
oven (not too hot) for one-half hour, basting it fre- 
quently. When putting ham in water be sure and 
keep the skin side up. Put on platter, and when cool 
put in refrigerator to get cold. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 
33 


BOILING HAM. 


A la D. C. Wharton Smith. 


Boil until about half done; let it remain in the 
water five or six hours, or over night; then score it 
and dash it with brown sugar. Put in oven and baste 
the ham with some wine until cooked. 


FATHER ADAM. 


Take as much cold roast beef as will fill a baking 
dish. Add enough gravy saved from the day before or 
enough butter and water in which to stew beef until 
quite tender. Have ready enough potatoes, boiled, 
mashed and seasoned with butter, pepper and salt, 
and made smooth with a little cream or milk to fill 
dish to top. Bake until nicely brown. 


JAM BOLIE OF HAM AND RICE, 


Supper Dish—Take cold boiled ham and chop 

very fine. Mix with the same quantity of boiled rice. 

+ Boil four eggs hard and chop. Make cream sauce 
of one cup cream or rich milk thickened with one 
even tablespoonful of flour rubbed with one table- 
spoonful of butter. 

In a pudding dish put a layer of ham and rice, 
then a layer of chopped egg, very well moistened 
with sauce. Repeat alternately until dish is full, end- 
ing with white sauce. Cover with bread crumbs and 
pieces of butter and bake until well browned. Put in 
plenty of sauce. 

34 


STEWED KIDNEY. 


Cut kidney up in small pieces, taking out all fat, 
and let stand over night in covered dish. In the morn- 
ing pour off blood, put one onion in pan, chopped 
‘fine, with lump of butter, and cook until soft; add 
kidney, cook a few minutes, then add water to make 
sufficient gravy, three cloves and allspice, small piece 
of bay leaf; cover and stew twenty minutes; thicken 
just before taking from fire. Serve with fine chopped 
parsley on top. (From French chef.) 

Mrs. Valentine Morris. 


KIDNEY TERRAPIN (No. 1). 


Prepare and cleanse six lambs’ kidneys as for 
stewing. Put one tablespoonful of butter in a frying 
pan; when melted, add one tablespoonful of flour; 
when perfectly smooth add one-half pint of milk, 
stir until it boils, then add the kidney, cut in small 
pieces, one-quarter teaspoonful of salt, pepper, yolk 
of an egg and one tablespoonful finely chopped pars- 
ley. If liked, add sherry to taste. 

Mrs. C. D. Barney. 


KIDNEY TERRAPIN (No. 2). 


Take one beef kidney, wash thoroughly, taking 
away all strings and fat, cut it in two lengthwise 
and lay in salt and water for an hour; then boil for 
three or four hours or until tender; put away in liquor 
to cool. When needed chop the kidney in small pieces. 
Mash the yolks of two hard boiled eggs and make 
smooth with some of the kidney liquor; add this and 
the whites of the eggs, cut fine, and about one pint 
of the kidney liquor to the kidney. Season with pep- 

35 


per and salt, heat all over the fire and add a good- 
sized piece of butter, also one cupful of cream, with 
one tablespoonful of flour smoothly mixed in it. Let 
all simmer together until creamy, and just before 
serving add sherry wine. 

1880. Mrs. Benjamin Rowland, Cheltenham. 


MARYLAND FRIED CHICKEN. 


Dress and cut young chicken for frying. Make 
a batter of two eggs and enough flour to make the 
consistency of cake batter. Salt. Salt and pepper 
chicken and dip in batter and fry in boiling lard. 
Serve with cream gravy and parsley. 


PENNSYLVANIA SCRAPPLE. 

Prepare pig’s head, also the liver, as in head 
cheese. Chop all fine and return the meat to the 
liquor, which must be kept boiling. Stir in Indian 
meal till like mush, adding pepper, salt and sweet 
marjoram. Boil one hour, stirring often. Pour into 
shallow pans. When cold cut it in slices and fry like 
mush, Mrs. M. J. C. Whitaker. 


PRESSED CHICKEN. 


Boil the chicken in a small quantity of water until 
tender, with a little salt; when thoroughly done take 
all the meat from the bones, keeping the light meat 
separate from the dark. Chop fine and season. Add 
a very little grated nutmeg. Take the broth, reduced 
to about one teacupful, add one teaspoonful gelatine, 
which has been soaked in a little cold water. Have 
hard boiled egg, cut in thin slices and put in bottom 
of mold or dish, pour over a little of the broth and 

36 


stand on ice until jelly is cold. Then put the chopped 
chicken in, in layers of light and dark, pour over the 
broth, put on a small weight and stand away to get 
cold. When ready to use turn out on dish and cut in 
slices, Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


SAVORY BEEF. 


Three pounds of lean, uncooked beef chopped as 
fine as possible. Add to it six square soda crackers 
rolled as fine as cracker dust; butter the size of an 
egg, warmed but not melted; four tablespoonfuls of 
sweet cream; three eggs, broken over the meat; one 
whole nutmeg grated; four teaspoonfuls of salt; two 
and a half teaspoonfuls of black pepper; one table- 
spoonful of sweet marjoram. Knead it well with 
your hands and make into two rolls about the size 
of a beef’s tongue, press it very closely into the rolls, 
put them into a pan, bake one and a half hours and 
baste with butter and water. Slice and eat cold. 

Mrs. H. T. Rogers, Asheville, N. C. 


STEAK IN CHAFING DISH. 


Make sauce of cupful of chopped celery, three 
onions, two teaspoonfuls mustard, one teaspoonful 
Worcestershire sauce, two teaspoonfuls sherry and 
lump of butter. Cook all ten minutes (scald celery 
first), add steak cut in small pieces, cook until 
done. Mrs. Valentine Morris. 


STEWED RABBIT. 


Cut up same as chicken, dredge with flour, brown 
nicely with one-quarter pound of salt pork, remove 
37 


rabbit and pork and make a nice brown sauce with 
flour to half fill skillet. Then replace rabbit, add three 
onions chopped fine, a bay leaf, salt, pepper, cover 
closely and stew slowly one and one-half hours. Just 
before removing rabbit from fire add large cup of 
claret. Serve with finely chopped parsley and with 
tice border. Mrs. Valentine Morris. 


STUFFING FOR TURKEY. 


Three-fourths of a Vienna loaf crumbed very 
fine, one-half pound of good sausage meat, one-fourth 
pound of butter, three eggs well beaten, a small piece 
of ham grated, one dozen large oysters, drained and 
chopped in large pieces, one-fourth pound of fresh 
mushrooms chopped, rind of one lemon, a few walnut 
meats and a few filberts. Truffles will improve it. 
Mix all these ingredients together and add a little 
grated nutmeg, marjoram and thyme. Salt and 
pepper to taste. M. M. Moore. 

One of Parkinson’s recipes, a celebrated caterer 
years ago. 

VEAL AND HAM. 


One pound of veal cutlet, one pound of ham. 
Cut the edge of fat off the slice of ham and put it in 
iron frying pan with a tablespoonful of lard; cut the 
veal in little pieces and put in the pan. While it is 
cooking cut the ham in same way, then add to the 
veal and let cook for some time slowly. Then add 
one-fourth pound butter, two tablespoonfuls of flour, 
well sieved, through the meat, then one quart of milk 
and let it boil well, add salt and pepper last. For 
lunch with waffles or griddle cakes. 

Katharine F. Spencer. 
38 


V. VEGETABLES. 


BOILED RICE. 


Wash the rice in three different waters (cold). 
Put a large pot of water on the fire and let it boil hard. 
While it is boiling add the rice so slowly that it does 
not stop the boiling. Let it boil hard for twenty-five 
minutes. Do not stir it at all. Then put it in a col- 
ander and run cold water over it. Set the colander 
over a pot of boiling water. Cover rice with a plate 
and let it remain on the fire for at least two hours. 
When ready to serve put in a covered dish with. lump 
of butter, Mrs. T. W. Tomkins. 


CORN FRITTERS. 


Three pints of corn scraped from the cob, and 
chopped fine, three eggs, one tablespoonful of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of yeast powder, salt. Fry in lard. 
This quantity makes a good many. 

Mrs. Edward Kirby. 


CORN PUDDING. 


One egg, two teaspoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful 
salt, one cup milk, butter size of walnut, four good- 
sized ears of corn. 


39 


CORN PUDDING. 


Grate twelve ears of corn, put in a baking dish. 
Add to it one cup of milk, one teaspoonful of salt, 
one tablespoonful of sugar (unless the corn is very 
sweet), one good tablespoonful of butter, cut in small 
pieces and mixed through the pudding. Bake in a hot 
oven about three-quarters of an hour. 


ONIONS. 


To prepare onions for flavoring, slicing or frying 
peel them and place them in a bowl of hot water for an 
hour or more, until the water gets cold. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


RICE CROQUETTES. 


Half a pound of rice, one pint of cold water, one 
pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of butter, two of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, a little nutmeg, grated 
tind of one lemon. Mix all together and boil in a 
farina kettle two hours. Beat eggs in a bowl, remove 
rice from the fire and stir in the beaten eggs. When 
cold mold sufficient for twelve croquettes. 

August, 1899. Miss F,. Harding. 


RICE MILK. 


Two tablespoonfuls rice picked over, washed and 
soaked in lukewarm water one hour. Put on range 


40 


with one tea cup cold water until it swells, then add one 
pint milk and boil until rice is tender. Beat one egz, 
one and one-half tablespoonfuls sugar and one-half 
teaspoonfuls salt. Mrs. T. W. Tomkins. 


STUFFED EGG PLANT. 


Remove the top of the egg plant, scoop out the 
center, fill it with a mince made of chopped meat, 
bread crumbs, a beaten egg, herbs and the requisite 
seasoning of salt and pepper. It is then baked in a 
moderately hot oven for about half an hour. Those 
who are fond of egg plant will find this indeed de- 
licious. Mrs. James P. E. Scott. 


41 


VI. EGGS, BREAKFAST AND 
LUNCHEON DISHES. 


BAKED CHEESE OMELET. 


Two eggs, two cupfuls of milk, one small cupful 
grated cheese, one small cupful of fine bread crumbs, 
salt and cayenne pepper to taste, one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, soak the crumbs in the milk, in which 
you must dissolve a tiny pinch of soda; beat the eggs 
light and add the bread and milk, stir in the butter, the 
seasoning, and, last of all, the cheese, Bake in a well- 
greased pudding dish half an hour and serve at once, 
before it falls. Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


CHEESE PASTRY. 


Two ounces grated cheese, two ounces flour, two 
ounces butter, yolk of one egg, few drops of lemon 
juice, pepper, very little salt, cayenne. Put on the pie 
board the flour, cheese and butter, and mix well to- 
gether. Make a hole in the center and add the pepper, 
salt, egg and lemon juice and knead well together. Roll 
it out very thin, cut out in small cakes, or with a jag- 
ging knife like straws; bake on a floured tin, in a hot 
oven for four minutes. (“Miss Dod.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


42 


CHEESE SANDWICHES. 


Three-quarters of a cup of grated cheese, half a 
pint of milk, one egg beaten stiff and stirred into the 
milk, butter size of an egg, one teaspoonful of corn- 
starch, Put all in a sauce pan and heat until thick, 
stirring all the time; cut bread in neat round slices, 
butter one side, spread the other with cheese mixture 
and brown on both sides in butter in a pan. Should 
be served hot. 

Sandusky, 1904. 


CURRIED RICE AND EGGS. 


Boil as many eggs as you wish, hard. Cook some 
rice. Heat one cup milk and thicken with a little flour, 
season with salt and a very small piece of butter. Take 
a small teaspoonful (more if you like) of curry pow- 
der and make it smooth in a tablespoonful of milk, and 
stir into the hot milk. Cut eggs in halves and put into 
the hot milk for a moment or two, then lift them out 
carefully on to the platter on which they are served. 
Put the rice around the platter and pour the curry 
sauce over the eggs. Mrs. T. W. Tomkins. 


EGGS AU PLAT. 


For each egg take two tablespoonfuls bread 
crumbs, one ounce butter, pepper and salt. Put on flat 
(agate) dish, a layer of bread crumbs, add pepper and 
salt and half the butter, then drop on the eggs, sprinkle 
over the rest of the crumbs, pepper and salt and the 
the butter, bake in a quick oven for five minutes. 
(“Miss Dod.”) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor, 


43 


OMELETTE. 


Four eggs two tablespoonfuls of flour, one pint of 
milk, salt to taste. Mrs. Robert Gover Allen. 


SPANISH OMELET. 


Six eggs, beat yolks and whites separately until 
very light. Add four tablespoonfuls of water or milk 
to yolks, season with salt and pepper. Put piece of 
butter into a hot frying-pan; when melted, pour in the 
eggs. When done pour on them the following sauce, 
fold lightly together and serve: 


SAUCE FOR OMELET. 


One quart fresh or canned tomatoes stewed until 
very dry, one onion sliced thinly, one-half can mush- 
rooms, chopped finely, one green pepper sliced. Season 
with pepper and salt, add chopped olives, if liked. This 
omelet is very good for breakfast, garnished with 
bacon. This sauce can be made the day before and 
used when needed. 

Mrs. Henry D. Cooke, New York. 


WELSH RAREBIT. (Golden Buck.) 


One egg, one pound mild cheese, one-half cup- 
ful milk, one lump butter size of a walnut, one-half 
teaspoonful mustard, one-half teaspoonful ginger. 
Other flavoring to taste. Melt butter in chafing- 
dish. Throw in half the cheese, broken into small 
fragments; when it is melted, pour in the rest. Break 

44 


the egg into this, and add the milk, stirring constantly. 
Season, and serve immediately on squares of hot toast, 
or toasted butter-thins. 

Mrs. Wilfred Schof, Cynwyd, Penn. 


WELSH RAREBIT (ENGLISH). 


Grate some Gloucester or Gruyére cheese and pep- 
per it with cayenne pepper. Fry some slices of bread 
with a little butter, but on one side only, until perfectly 
yellow, then spread a thick coat of grated cheese on 
the fried side of the bread, place the slices in a baking- 
pan, put them in a pretty warm oven, take off when it 
begins to melt and serve warm. Then you have as 
good a welsh rarebit as can be made here. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


45 


VII. ENTREES. 


CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 


Boil the chicken till tender, bone and chop very 
fine. Take one tablespoonful of butter and two of 
flour, rub together as for drawn butter and add suffi- 
cient of the water in which the chicken was boiled to 
make a very thick drawn butter. To this add season- 
ing, parsley, salt, pepper and nutmeg to taste, one-half 
teacup of good cream, and the chopped chicken. Mix 
well, set in a cool place to harden, then shape. Dip 
in egg. and cracker dust and fry in boiling lard or 
drippings. Miss E. Harrison, 

Formerly owner of Baltimore Inn, Cape May. 


CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 


Boil one pair chickens till tender. Take the meat 
off the bones and mince very fine, rejecting the fat 
and gristle. Season with red and black pepper, salt, 
nutmeg, parsley and a little minced onion. Beat to- 
gether one-quarter pound butter and two tablespoon- 
fuls flour. Have one pint cream or rich milk heated 
almost to boiling. Stir into this the butter and flour, 
allowing it to boil. Take it off the fire, add the chicken 
mixing it well. When cold form into croquettes. 
Dip first into seasoned bread crumbs, then beaten eggs, 
again into the crumbs. Fry a light brown. 

These are fine. Mrs. W. H. Tomlinson. 

46 


CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 


Boil two chickens saving the stock and boil down 
to about three pints. Cut the chicken when cold quite 
fine but do not chop it. Chop a very small onion and 
a few sprays of parsley together. Put in a saucepan 
half a cup of butter, when melted put in the parsley 
and onion and a cup of flour. Stir it until it is well 
cooked, then add two cups of stock and one of cream. 
Stir until smooth, then add pepper, salt, a small nutmeg 
or half of a large one, the juice and grated rind of a 
lemon. When it is well stirred put in the chicken. 
When cold mold into cone shapes and put out to be- 
come thoroughly cold before frying. Roll in cracker 
dust or bread crumbs and fry in boiling fat. 

Miss H. E. Thomas, Chicago. 

Sent by Mrs. Charles M. Thomas, Devon, Pa. 


AUGUSTINE’S CHICKEN CROQUETTE. 


Put into a sauce pan half a pint of cream, one 
large tablespoonful of butter, half a grated nutmeg, 
salt, red pepper, parsley, and a very little onion chopped 
fine. Heat it and when boiling hot stir in two table- 
spoonfuls of flour made smooth in milk. Let it thicken. 
Then pour it over one pint of minced chicken, turkey 
or veal. When perfectly cold, mold, dip in egg, then 
in bread crumbs. Have lard boiling hot and deep 
enough to cover them and fry a light brown. 

March, 1880. Mrs. T. S. Shoemaker. 


CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 


Take the meat of one chicken and one pair of 
sweetbreads parboiled, chop very fine. To every pint 


47 


of chopped meat allow half a pint of cream or milk, 
one large tablespoonful of butter and two of flour. 
Rub butter and flour together until smooth. Stir 
all in the boiling milk or cream. Let it boil until 
thick and add twelve drops of onion juice, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, a very little nutmeg, and a very little 
cayenne pepper; a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 
Mix the meat in the paste and stir very hard. Turn 
it out and let cool. Mold into shape and roll in egg 
and bread crumbs and fry in boiling lard. 
September, 1884. Elufa. 


CHICKEN TERRAPIN. 


One large boiled chicken. When cold cut into 
small pieces; then take half a pint of cream; rub a 
piece of butter size of an egg into a tablespoonful of 
flour. Mix with the cream. Let all come to a boil; 
then put in the chicken, season with cayenne pepper 
and salt and add three hard boiled eggs cut fine. The 
liver and gizzard should be cut fine and have no gristle 
left on. A sherry wine glass four times full of sherry 
is enough for one chicken. Any extra livers or gizzards 
or hard boiled eggs add to the richness. A little nut- 
meg improves the flavor. 


CHICKEN TERRAPIN. 


Boil a four-pound chicken, remove the skin and 
cut meat in pieces as for chicken salad. Take one 
pint of cream and put on fire in farina boiler, quarter 
of a pound of butter and four heaping tablespoonfuls 
of flour; cream together. Stir chicken in the cream and 
add flour and butter. Season highly with red pepper 
and black pepper and salt. 

48 


DEVILED TOMATOES. 


Fine firm tomatoes, about one quart, three hard 
boiled eggs, the yolks only, three tablespoonfuls 
melted butter, three tablespoonfuls vinegar, two raw 
eggs, whipped lightly, one teaspoonful powdered 
sugar, one tablespoonful made mustard, one saltspoon- . 
ful salt, a good pinch of cayenne pepper. Pound the 
boiled yolks, rub in the butter and seasoning. Beat 
light, add the vinegar and heat almost to a boil. Stir 
in the beaten egg until the mixture begins to thicken. 
Set the bow! in hot water while you cut the tomatoes 
in slices nearly half an inch thick. Broil over a clear 
fire upon a wire oyster broiler. Lay on a hot chafing 
dish and pour the hot sauce over them. (“Marion 
Harland.”) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


SWEETBREADS, FRENCH STYLE. 


Take three large sweetbreads, put them in hot 
water and let them boil ten minutes. When cool skin 
them and do not break them. Season with salt and 
pepper, dredge a little flour. Fry slowly in butter and 
brown on both sides. When done place them on a 
dish. Remove all the brown particles from the pan. 
Pour in while off the fire one cup of boiling water or 
cream. Dredge in one dessertspoonful of flour. Season 
with pepper and salt. Let it boil slowly for a moment 
and adding the sweet breads. Serve in a heated cov- 
ered dish. 

These are very delicious. 

Mrs, W. H. Tomlinson. 
49 


SWEETBREADS. 


One pair sweetbreads, pepper, salt, cayenne 
Pepper, grated nutmeg, one egg, two tablespoonfuls 
cream, one teacup cold water. Put the sweetbreads 
in plenty of cold water, and when it comes to boil, let 
it boil for five minutes. Take them out and throw 
them into a bowl of cold water. Wash well and take 
off any discolored parts. Cut them in slices. Melt in 
a sauecpan two ounces butter, and add one-half ounce 
flour, and mix smooth, then add the cup of cold water. 
When it boils add the pepper, salt, cayenne and nut- 
meg, then put in the sweetbreads and let it cook slowly 
for three-quarters of an hour. Beat well the egg and 
cream and carefully add to the fricassee. Stir over 
the fire for a few minutes, then serve on a hot dish. 
(“Miss Dod.”) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor, 


VEAL LOAF WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 


Put two pounds of veal from the fillet, together 
with five cents’ worth of fat salt pork, through the meat 
cutter twice. Season with one teaspoonful of salt, half 
teaspoonful of white pepper, one teaspoonful of sweet 
herbs and the juice of a lemon. Add five rolled soda 
crackers, two well beaten eggs, leaving two tablespoon- 
fuls of the egg to brush the loaf with when formed; 
two tablespoonfuls of butter and three tablespoonfuls 
of rich milk, Mix thoroughly, shape into a loaf to fit 
baking pan, brush with the egg saved, roll in the 
cracker crumbs and place in the pan with a quarter 
of a cup of hot water and a teaspoonful of butter in 
the bottom to make the liquid for first basting. Baste 

50 


often. Bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Slice 
enough for the day’s dinner, place on a hot platter, 
pour over it tomato sauce made by simmering together 
ten minutes one pint of stewed tomatoes, one small 
onion, a sprig of parsley and one bay leaf. Melt a 
tablespoonful of butter and mix with it a tablespoonful 
of flour. Press the tomato through a sieve, add the 
butter and flour. Let the mixture boil up once and 
season with pepper and salt. 


5r 


VII. SALADS. 


APPLE SALAD. 


Six large red apples, three stalks celery, one cup 
chopped nuts (English walnuts preferred), one cup 
mayonnaise dressing, two heads lettuce. Slice top 
off each apple, scoop out inside, being careful not to 
break skin. Chop apple, celery and nuts very fine in 
chopping bowl. Mix well with mayonnaise. Fill 
apple shells with this mixture and replace tops. 
Through the stem holes stick leafy stalks of celery. 
Serve on lettuce leaves. B. McGeorge. 


CHERRY SALAD. 


Two leaves of lettuce, small portion of mayon- 
naise dressing, large cherries pitted and filled with 
hazel nuts, Mrs. M. J. C. Whitaker. 


CHICKEN SALAD. 


One chicken, three bunches celery. Dressing— 
three eggs beaten separately, one tablespoonful of 
mixed mustard, one teaspoonful of salt, little pepper, 
one tablespoonful butter, three tablespoonfuls cream, 
six tablespoonfuls vinegar. Set in pan of boiling 
water and let cook like custard, but not boil, When 

~ cold pour over chicken and celery. 


52 


CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Two large cucumbers, one cup mayonnaise, six 
slices toast, one green pepper, two heads lettuce, 
nasturtion flowers. Cut each cucumber lengthwise 
into three pieces. Peel carefully from light-colored 
blossom end. Scoop out pulp, being careful not to 
break rind. Chop up green peppers and mix with 
chopped cucumbers and mayonnaise. Now fill each 
cucumber-boat with this mixture. Cut sail«shaped 
slices of toast and stick them upright into the for- 
ward ends of the cucumbers. Place each little boat 
on a few waves of lettuce leaves and adorn with nas- 
turtions. 

It is pretty to place tiny flags at the mast-heads. 
This is a delightful salad for a little girls’ luncheon. 

Miss Loutse Schoff, 3418 Baring Street. 


DEVILED EGG SALAD. 

A very quick and easy way to make this follows: 
Boil the eggs hard, turning them constantly to prevent 
the yolk from getting too close tothe shell at any 
point. Plunge them into cold water as soon as they 
are hard to prevent discoloration and to aid in remov- 
ing shell. Now peel carefully, cut in halves length- 
wise, remove yolks and place them in bowl. If 
properly cooked they should crumble almost to pow- 
der when mashed with a fork. Add to six eggs three 
and one-half tablespoonfuls of olive oil, two table- 
spoonfuls of vinegar or juice of one lemon, two heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls. salt, one-half teaspoonful mustard, 
two drops Tabasco sauce or one-half teaspoonful 
paprika. Replace this mixture in the whites and 
serve on little nests of lettuce and watercress. 

B. McGeorge. 


53 


ENDIVE SALAD. 


Soak four heads of endives in cold water for an 
hour or two, drain. Use only the hard centers. Cut 
them fine and mix with two green peppers, two to- 
matoes, three heads of celery, all chopped together 
and mixed with French dressing. Serve in a bowl 
which has been first rubbed with an onion. 

Mrs. Wm. Nice, Jr. 


LOBSTER SALAD. 
Recipe Fifty Years Old. 

Three-fourths bottle of sweet oil, eight hard 
boiled eggs, three yolks of eggs, raw, one tablespoon- 
ful of mustard, vinegar, red pepper and salt. One 
tablespoonful of mustard, mix it with a tablespoonful 
of water, stir it to a paste, the yolk of one egg added 
to that. Stir thoroughly, add the sweet oil slowly, 
stir quickly. Take another vessel, mash the yolks of 
eight hard boiled eggs very fine, then add the yolks 
of two raw eggs, add a little vinegar, red pepper and 
salt. Mix the dressing together—enough dressing 
for two lobsters. From Caterer M. J. Caldwell. 


PIMENTO SALAD. 

One can pimento (Spanish sweet red pepper), 
two ten-cent cream cheeses, one cup mayonnaise dress- 
ing, two heads lettuce. Cut up pimento very fine, mix 
with cheese and stand away on ice. Just before serv- 
ing add mayonnaise dressing. Serve in nests of let- 
tuce leaves. Sliced fresh green peppers or fresh toma- 
toes are delicious mixed with this. 

Miss Elizabeth Swoyer, 
3618 Spring Garden St, 
54 


POTATO SALAD. 


Pare and dice about eight cold boiled potatoes. 
On each layer of potatoes as you slice them in the 
dish sprinkle salt and black pepper, sweet oil; some 
melted butter and vinegar should be poured over each 
layer of potatoes, also half of an onion chopped very 
finely. Should there be any objection to so much 
onion it can be merely rubbed over the dish before 
putting in the potatoes. Lettuce may also be.used to 
garnish the salad and eaten with it. 

Mrs. A. R. Thomas, Philadelphia. 


POTATO AND BEET SALAD. 


Mash potatoes and season nicely. Cook two or 
three beets. Cut one and let it stand a while in vine- 
gar, then take a tablespoonful of that vinegar and a 
tablespoonful of salad oil and a dash of cayenne and 
mix with the potatoes with a spoonful of cream. Also 
chop one small beet and stir in the potatoes. Pile the 
potatoes high in the dish and garnish with sliced beets. 

Mrs. T. W. Tomkins. 


POTATO SALAD. 


One cup mayonnaise, three cups cold boiled po- 
tatoes, parsley, onion to taste, two heads lettuce. Cut 
up potatoes into small round balls. Chop onion very 
fine and mix with potatoes and mayonnaise, to which 
has been added a little chopped parsley. Serve very 
cold on lettuce. 

Miss Swoyer, 3618 Spring Garden Street, 


35 


RED CABBAGE. 

Put about twelve pints of water on to boil, add two 
chopped onions. When boiling put in a large head of 
cabbage sliced fine, boil three-quarters of an hour, 
stirring occasionally to keep from burning. When 
done add four tablespoonfuls vinegar, pepper, salt, 
one teaspoonful vinegar and thicken with a quarter- 
teaspoonful flour, and finally add wineglass of claret. 
Cook few minutes until claret is absorbed. Served 
.best with spare ribs. (From German cook book.) 

Mrs. Valensine Morris. 


SALAD DRESSING. 

Put in a pint bowl two eggs slightly beaten, a 
lump of butter size of a large egg, a little cayenne 
pepper, a teaspoonful of sugar. Mix one teaspoonful 
of mustard with a little water and add. Mix two tea- 
spoonfuls of flour with cold water until smooth and 
add. Then add a large teacupful of vinegar. Stand 
the bowl with contents over a tea kettle of boiling 
water to cook slowly. Stir constantly until it is as 
thick as good cream. Take off from fire and stir a 
few minutes, then stand away to get cold. To use for 
tomato, potato or any salad or for potted ham. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


SALAD DRESSING WITHOUT OIL. 


One cup sour cream, one tablespoonful vinegar, 
one teaspoonful mustard (or more to taste), yolks of 
two eggs, one teaspoonful salt, butter size of a walnut. 
Pour sour cream into pan, add salt and butter and 
well-beaten yolks of eggs. Stir over good fire con- 
stantly while it boils for fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Take off fire, pour in china bowl to cool; add vinegar 

56 


and mustard that have previously been stirred to- 
gether until mustard is all smoothed. Mix well 
through. Serve when cold. 
This is an old Quaker recipe, taught me by my 
Grandmother Comfort. 
Elizabeth Comfort Gerhart. 


SHADDOCK SALAD. 
For Eight People. 

Two largest size shaddocks. Pare like an apple. 
Cut in small chunks and sprinkle four large table- 
spoonfuls of pulverized sugar over and put in refrig- 
erator one hour to cool. Dressing—Four tablespoon- 
fuls of Tarragon vinegar and eight tablespoonfuls of 
olive oil. Salt and pepper to taste. Just before serv- 
ing put on each plate several leaves of crisp lettuce 
nicely cleaned and dried and divide the grape fruit 
over, then the dressing and serve at once. 

M. M. Moore. 
WALNUT SALAD. 

Take one-half pint of English walnut meat and 
boil twelve minutes with one blade of mace, one bay 
leaf and a saltspoonful of salt in water just enough to 
cover them. Drain the nuts, remove the skins and 
mix with four large boiled white potatoes, sliced 
while hot. Mix four tablespoonfuls of olive oil with 
one teaspoonful of black pepper and one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt. Add to this, drop by drop, stirring 
all the time, one tablespoonful of Tarragon vinegar 
and one-half teaspoonful of pure onion juice. Put the 
dressing over the potatoes and nuts and when very 
cold garnish with watercress or parsley. 

M. M. Moore. 
57 


IX. SAUCES. 


ELEGANT PUDDING SAUCE. 


Four large tablespoonfuls of white sugar, two 
large tablespoonfuls of butter, one tablespoonful of 
flour. Stir to a cream. Beat the white of one egg to 
a stiff froth and add it. Pour into the dish a gill of 
boiling water, stirring very fast. Flavor with wine or 
brandy to taste. If you prefer other flavoring than the 
wine or brandy use lemon juice, which makes it, I 
think, equally as good. Mrs. Edward Kirby. 


FINE HERBS SAUCE. 


Chop separately one large gravy spoonful of pre- 
pared white mushrooms, three shalots, and a handful 
of parsley. Place these in a stewing pan with one 
ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of mignonette, pepper, a 
little grated nutmeg, and salt ; put the whole on the fire 
for five minutes boil it quickly. Finish with a little 
lemon juice. Pour it into a bain-marie or boat for use. 

Mrs. M. J. C. Whitaker. 


“MOTHER’S” HORSE-RADISH CUSTARD. 


Three tablespoonfuls grated horse-radish one pint 
milk, two eggs, little salt, butter size of walnut, bread 
crumbs to thicken (not too thick), Put the bread 

38 


crumbs and horse-radish, in the milk, in a pan and boil 
slowly until smooth, like pap. Add the butter, and just 
as you take it off from fire have the eggs beaten lightly 
and add, stirring quickly so as not to curdle. Add the 
salt, and small teaspoonful sugar. Excellent with roast 
beef. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


LEMON BUTTER. 


Six eggs, one pound granulated sugar, one-eighth 
pound butter, juice and grated rind of two large 
lemons. Put in agate, cook slowly and stir well from 
the bottom until thick. Excellent, 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


LEMON BUTTER. 


The rind and juice of one lemon, two cupfuls of 
sugar, a piece of butter the size of an egg, three eggs. 
Boil until forming a thin custard. M. B. Packer. 


LEMON SAUCE. 


One tablespoonful corn starch, one tablespoonful 
butter, one-half cupful of sugar, one egg, one pint 
boiling water. Put the corn starch, egg, butter and 
sugar into a bowl and beat them well; now pour over 
this the boiling water and stir over the fire until thick. 
Take from fire and add the juice and rind of one 
lemon. Mrs, Henry P. Taylor. 


MINT SAUCE JELLY. 


Soak one-quarter box gelatine, or a little less, in 
one-half cupful cold water. Boil ong cupful sugar and 
39 


one-half cupful white wine vinegar until sugar is dis- 
solved and add to it, when hot, one bunch mint, bruised 
or chopped; strain this on the soaked gelatine, salt to 
taste. When it begins to thicken, stir in one table~ 
spoonful of chopped mint (fine), then pour in mold. 

This recipe is from Mrs. Harriet Lane Johnston's 
cook, of Baltimore, Md. 


RASPBERRY SAUCE. 
(For Boiled Puddings). 

Beat two eggs until smooth ; add a teaspoonful of 
flour, then half a pint of raspberry juice; sweeten the 
mixture to taste, pour into a sauce pan and set over the 
fire, stirring constantly until it begins to thicken. 

Another sauce for cold puddings is made by 
whipping half a pint of raspberry juice with the same 
quantity of sweet, rich cream, pouring over the 
pudding. Serve at once. 


SAUCE REMOULADE. 


Two grated onions, yolks of three hard boiled 
eggs, four tablespoonfuls of mustard, two tablespoon- 
fuls sugar, vinegar to soften, white pepper, salt; stir 
all together, strain through sieve, add capers and 
chopped chives. Very good with cold meats. 

Mrs. Valentine Morris. 


STRAWBERRY SAUCE FOR BREAD 
PUDDING. 


One cupful strawberries, one-half cupful sugar, 
one lump butter size of small egg. The bread pudding 
should be made as usual, but with very little sugar, 

60 


otherwise the sauce will make it too sweet. Cream this 
butter in a bowl, add the sugar and beat thoroughly. 
Mash the ripe strawberries and add them to the 
creamed butter and sugar. Stand on ice until very 
cold, and serve with either hot or cold pudding. This 
is an ancient Dutch recipe which is particularly useful 
where some’ members of a family like made desserts 
and some prefer fresh fruit. B. McGeorge. 


UNION SAUCE FOR COOKING BIRDS. 
North Carolina Recipe. 


To one dozen birds take one pound of butter, melt 
in covered sauce pan over a slow fire, add to this a 
small glass of good vinegar and two pods of red pepper 
broken. Put in the birds and cook gently, allowing 
them to simmer until they are well done and tender. 
Then take out the birds and place in a covered dish by 
the fire, keeping them hot. Add to the gravy one quart 
of good, rich milk and cook ten minutes. Thicken to 
your taste. with browned flour. Put back the birds 
and let them cook from five to ten minutes. Serve: 
hot. . “Mrs. J. Thompson Cole. 


VANILLA SAUCE. 


One pint milk, yolks of four eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful vanilla. Put the 
milk on to boil, beat the yolks and sugar together until 
light, then add them to the boiling milk. Stir over the 
fire for two minutes, take off and add the vanilla. Put 
away to cool. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 

61 


X. BREADS. 


BAKER'S YEAST. 


Eight large potatoes pared, one large handful of 
hops and one quart cold water. Tie the hops in fine 
muslin, then put all on to boil till the water is reduced 
to one pint. Mash the potatoes fine, and add one tea- 
cupful of brown sugar, two tablespoonfuls of salt, and 
the hop water. Mix all well together and when luke- 
warm add one teacupful baker’s yeast. 

“My mother’s recipe.” 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


VIRGINIA SOUR MILK BATTER BREAD. 


Scald one-half pint corn meal, when cool beat it 
into one-half pint clabber with one tablespoonful of 
melted butter, one tablespoonful of flour, one table- 
spoonful of salt; beat ‘well, then add another one-half 
pint of clabber. Beat well. Dissolve one-half table- 
spoonful of soda in one-half cupful of clabber and beat 
that into the mixture and beat the whole well, Put in 
a well-buttered pudding dish and bake one-half hour 
in quick oven. (Rev. J. E, Ewell.) 

Mrs, H. P. Taylor. 
62 


BATTER BREAD. 


One quart of meal, six eggs, sweet milk, butter 
or lard. Salt. Stir the well beaten eggs into the 
sifted meal and add a good tablespoonful of butter or 
butter and lard mixed, and enough fresh sweet milk 
to make a soft batter. Beat till smooth and pour into 
bowl, muffin pans or square pans and send to the table 
very hot. The sweet milk can be mixed with butter- 
milk, and add a little soda, say a little over half a tea- 
spoonful. It can be made with fewer eggs. 

Miss Isaetta C. Hubard, Arrington, Virginia. 

April, 1906. 


BATTER BREAD. 


Scald one pint of meal, add one pint of milk (or 
more if necessary) to make a very thin batter, one 
tablespoonful of lard, two eggs beaten separately, salt, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, pour into a 
buttered earthen baking dish and bake one hour in a 
moderate oven. Mrs. Robert Gover Allen. 


BRAN BISCUIT. 


One and one-half cupfuls of bran, one cupful of 
white flour, one and one-half cupfuls of milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, one-quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, one egg, one tablespoonful of melted butter. 
Mix all together and do not beat the egg, stir it into 
the mixture. Mrs Graham, Pittsburg. 

63 


FARMERS’ BROWN BREAD. 


.One pint of sour milk, one pint of graham flour, 
one pint of Indian meal, half a cup each of dark 
molasses and brown sugar, two teaspoonfuls of soda 
dissolved in warm water. Steam three hours and put 
in oven to brown. 

Deer’s Head Inn, June 4, 1902. 


REAL NEW ENGLAND BOSTON 
BROWN BREAD. 


Two cupfuls graham flour (sifted), one cupful 
corn meal (sifted), one cupful molasses, two cupfuls 
warm water or milk, one teaspoonful soda, one-half 
teaspoonful salt. Steam three hours or more. 

Given me by a very dear friend from North Con- 
way, N. H. Josephine E, Buckman. 


BREAD CAKE. 


Two cups of light dough, one and a half cups of 
sugar, one cup of shortening, half butter; half cup of 
milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
milk, one cup stoned and chopped raisins, spiced to 
taste. Mix with the hands until smooth all parts ex- 
cept milk and raisins, which should then be added. If 
too thin stir in a little flour. 


BREAD CRUMBS. 


Put slices of stale bread in a slow oven till they 
are perfectly dried up. Break them in pieces and re- 


64 


duce them to a coarse powder with a rolling pin, sift 
them and they are ready for use. The above crumbs 
are rather brown. 

White crumbs. Cut in rather large dice the soft 
part of stale bread; put the pieces in a new and coarse 
towel, rub between the hands so as to reduce the pieces 
of bread to crumbs. Pass through a colander or 
through a sieve, according to need, coarse or fine, and 
use. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


BROWN BREAD. 


One pint white flour, one pint graham flour, one 
pint dark, thick molasses, one teaspoonful salt, one- 
half yeast cake. Set the pint of graham flour with the 
yeast cake and salt over night. Next morning add 
white flour and molasses, stirring, not kneading. 
Dough should not be as stiff as white bread. Bake one 
hour. 


QUICK BISCUIT. 


Three cupfuls flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls bak- 
ing powder, piece of butter, size of walnut, rubbed into 
flour, one tablespoonful sugar, salt. Mix with one cup- 
ful milk and one tablespoonful more. Stir with spoon, 
‘take dough on board and roll quickly without molding. 
Cut and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. 
The art is in stirring very lightly. 


BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 


One quart of warm water, one quart of buck- 
wheat flour. Make a batter of this; stir in one-third 
65 


of a cup of soft yeast or small half cup of hard yeast 
soaked. Let this stand over night; add one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt and half a pint of 
boiling water in the morning. Beat thoroughly and 
bake immediately. 

January 23, 1894. Aunt Martha. 


LUCY’S BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 


One quart of buckwheat flour, three pints of 
lukewarm water, three-quarters of a cup of good yeast, 
about one tablespoonful of salt. Set in cool place 
to rise. 

March 17, 1881. Mrs. Jay Cooke, Jr. 


, 
MRS. JAY COOKE, JR’S, BUCKWHEATS. 


One quart of buckwheat meal, warm water to 
make a rather thin batter, mix smoothly and beat 
well, add a quarter of a yeast cake dissolved in a 
cup of warm water, beat hard for ten minutes, set 
to rise over night; in the morning add a teaspoonful 
of salt, a tablespoonful of New Orleans molasses, and, 
last of all, a quarter of a teaspoonful of soda dissolved 
in warm water and bake at once. 

December, 1903. 


PRIZE BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 


Two tablespoonfuls flour, four tablespoonfuls 
buckwheat (heaping), one teaspoonful salt, one-half 
pint milk and water to make temperature of new milk. 

66 


Mix batter thoroughly together and set to rise in a 
warm place. To a pint of batter add one-half an 
yeast cake. In morning add two tablespoonfuls of 
molasses and one-half teaspoonful soda. Mixed in 
milk or water. Mrs. E. H. Rosenquest. 


CINNAMON BUNS. 


One quart of bread dough (sponge), two cups of 
white sugar, two eggs, one cup of lard and butter. 
After setting to rise, roll out about an inch thick and 
bake. While hot mix butter, cinnamon and sugar to- 
gether and spread over thin. Sprinkle sugar over 
thick, and set in oven to dry a few minutes. 

1874. Mrs. E. C. Kieffer. 


CINNAMON BUN. 


One cupful bread dough when first batter is light, 
part of an egg or one small one, one egg of butter, 
little sugar. Beat light and as stiff as you can with a 
spoon, let rise; roll out but don’t knead, spread with 
plenty of butter, cinnamon and sugar, roll and let rise, 
then bake. S. B. P. (Received from B. T. W.) 


OGONTZ SCHOOL CINNAMON BUNS. 


Three-quarters of a pound of sugar, half a pound 
of butter, five eggs, half an ounce of salt, one quart 
of water, one ounce of yeast, flour to make dough 
of medium stiffness, let it stand over night, roll to 
quarter of an inch, spread thickly with melted butter, 
granulated sugar, currants and cinnamon. Roll up 


67 


like jelly roll, cut one and a half inches thick, stand 
on end and place in well greased pans. Let rise 
until light. Glaze over after baking with sugar and 
water. 

March, Igor. Miss Gates. 


CORN BREAD. 


One pint of sour milk, two cups of meal, one cap 
of flour, one egg, two tablespoonfuls of sugar or 
molasses, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of 
saleratus. Mix thoroughly and bake twenty-five min- 
utes in two shallow pans, 

July, 1875. Mrs. Nettleton. 


CORN BREAD. 


Two cups of flour, one cup of corn meal, one and 
a half cups of milk, two eggs, half a cup of sugar, 
six tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, pinch of salt. Bake in two square 
tins. 

March 1876. M. Hubbard, Sandusky, Ohio. 


CORN BREAD. 


Three eggs beaten light, one quart of milk, enough 
corn meal to make batter the consistency of ginger- 
bread batter, two cups of white flour, teaspoonful of 
salt, three heaping teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two 
large tablespoonfuls of melted butter. 

1900. Sarah Lowry. 

68 


CORN BREAD. 


Take one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoonful 
of sugar, stir together; yolks of three eggs, one cup of 
milk, one cup of cornmeal, two cups of flour, good 
pinch of salt. Last of all, whites of eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth and four even teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Bake thirty minutes. Mix in order given 
above. 

1906. Jennie Black. 


CORN BREAD. 


One quart of milk, one pint of Indian meal, small 
piece of butter, one teaspoonful of soda. 
Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


CORN BREAD. 


One cupful corn meal, one egg, one cupful sour 
milk, one teaspoonful salt, two tablespoonfuls sugar, 
one even teaspoonful soda. Mix soda in quarter cupful 
of hot water, Bake about half of an hour. 

Mrs. Avery Thomas, Dayton, Ohio. 


CORN BREAD. 


One cupful Indian meal, one and one-half cupfuls 
flour, two heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder, two 
eggs. Milk enough to make a soft batter. 

Mrs. E. H. Rosenquest. 
69 


AUNT LYDIA’S CORN CAKE. 


Sift into a large pan a quart of meal and add a 
level teaspoonful of salt. Have ready a pint of boil- 
ing milk sufficient to make a soft dough. Mix milk 
hot into the meal and add about a quarter of a pound 
or half a pint of butter. Beat five eggs till very light 
and stir them gradually into the mixture and set away 
to cool. When cool pour into muffin tins, filling them 
to the top, and bake in a moderate oven. 

April, 1906. Miss Isaettta Hubard. 


PINEY WOODS CORN CAKES. 


Three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of butter, three 
cups of cornmeal, one pint of boiled milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, and half a teaspoonful of salt. 

August 31, 1899. Mrs. J.H Harding. 


CORN MUFFINS. 


Three eggs, one quart buttermilk, one tablespoon- 
ful melted butter, one teaspoonful soda, salt. Sufficient 
meal to make a thick batter. Put in greased rings and 
bake in quick oven until the muffins draw from tin. 


DEMOCRATS. 


One cup of buttermilk in a bowl and three table- 
spoonfuls of melted butter, one even teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in a little warm water. Add flour, 
knead it well, and set them away at least a few hours 
before frying. 

1850. Grandmother Dennis. 

70 


MRS. D.’S BROOKLYN DOUGHNUTS. 


One small teacupful of baker’s yeast, one-half 
teacupful warm water, flour enough to make a batter ; 
when light add one pound granulated sugar, six ounces 
butter, one pint milk, two eggs, melt the butter in 
the milk, beat the eggs and sugar light, and flour 
enough to beat stiff. When light and just before 
baking, knead in carefully one-half teaspoonful dis- 
solved bi-carbonate soda, Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


KATIE DUKE’S DELICATE CREAM 
MUFFINS. 


Cream three level tablespoonfuls of butter, add 
to it two tablespoonfuls of sugar, separate two eggs, 
beat the whites and add them to the unbeaten yolks. 
To the butter and sugar add one cup of milk, half 
a teaspoonful of salt, two cups of flour and four level 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder, then add the eggs. 
Fill greased muffin pans two-thirds full and bake in 
a quick oven twenty minutes. Substitute cornmeal, 
tye or graham flour for one cup of the wheat flour 
and you will have the different muffins. Excellent for 
cottage pudding. 

West Chester, 1902. 


DOUGHNUTS. 


One cupful milk, one cupful sugar, two eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, little nutmeg. Enough 
flour to roll. Cut and fry in hot fat. 

7 


ENTIRE WHEAT BREAD. 


Two quarts of entire wheat flour, two quarts of 
wheat flour, half a kitchen cup of molasses, one tea- 
spoonful of Cottolene or lard, one quart of tepid water, 
one yeast cake, and salt. Beat all together very hard 
with a spoon. In the morning use just enough flour 
to get it in the pans. This makes three loaves. 

1899. Miss F. Harding. 


GERMAN DOUGHNUTS. 

One cupful sugar, one-half cupful melted butter, 
yolks of three eggs, two cupfuls milk, one yeast cake, 
flour enough to make a soft batter. Raise over night. 
In the morning mix them up stiff, cut them out, raise 
again. Fry in hot lard. Mrs. Lavinia C. Schlater. 


GERMAN DOUGHNUTS. 

Two cupfuls sugar, one cupful milk, two eggs, 
juice of one lemon, part of the grated rind, one table- 
spoonful of rosewater, one teaspoonful of soda, three 
teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, flour enough to make a 
very soft dough. Mix the sugar and milk together, 
add the eggs beaten, then the soda, rosewater and 
lemon; mix in a little flour (about half), then the 
cream of tartar and the rest of the flour, 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


INA’S DOUGHNUTS. 

Two cups of granulated sugar, six eggs, two smali 
cups of milk, four teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two 
teaspoonfuls of butter. Cream the butter and sugar, 
add eggs beaten light, then the milk and flour to make 
soft dough, season with nutmeg. 

j2 


PUFF BALL DOUGHNUTS. 


Beat three eggs very light, add one cupful of 
sugar, one pint of sweet milk, salt, nutmeg and suffi- 
cient flour into which has been sifted two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder, to permit the spoon to 
stand upright in the mixture. Drop by the dessert- 
spoonful into hot fat. These will not absorb a bit of 
fat. Annie J. Orme. 


MISS DOD’S DROPPED SCONES. 


One-half pound flour, one-half ounce sugar, pinch 
of salt, one-half teaspoonful bi-carbonate soda, one 
teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half pint milk. Put the 
flour in a bowl and add the salt and sugar, Mix 
smooth on a plate the soda and cream tartar, and add 
to the flour, then the milk and mix well. Take a piece 
of suet and put in a brown paper, and grease a griddle, 
then drop on the scones, and brown well on both 
sides. Split open and butter and eat very hot. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


DUTCH CAKE. 


Three-pound package of a good self-raising flour, 
one pound sugar, one-half pound butter, one pound 
raisins, one pound currants, one quart milk, three eggs, 
one nutmeg. Mix sugar and butter, then add eggs, 
then milk, then flour and raisins and currants and nut- 
meg. Bake in slow oven. Make one-half quantity if 
you wish. Mrs. E. Clark. 

73 


DUTCH CAKE. 


Eight cupfuls of flour, eight rounded teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, three and one-half cupfuls granu- 
lated sugar, three eggs, one-half pound seedless raisins, 
one-half pound currants, three tablespoonfuls of butter 
or lard, or butter and lard mixed. Milk enough to 
mix. Mrs. E. Steele. 


ENGLISH CURRANT LOAVES. 


Three medium sized white potatoes pared, cut in 
small pieces and boiled soft. Mash very fine and put 
back in part of the water they were boiled in, add to 
this one pint of sweet milk which has been scalded. 
When cold add one fresh compressed yeast cake dis- 
solved in one-quarter cup of lukewarm water, add 
sufficient flour to make a soft batter and beat well. 
Sprinkle one handful of flour over the sponge and set 
in warm place to rise over night. In the morning, not 
later than seven o’clock, add three-quarters of a nut- 
meg grated, a sprinkling of salt, one-half pound of 
good sweet lard, also sufficient flour to make the dough 
for the bread, knead three-quarters of an hour and set 
to rise to twice its bulk; then add two pounds of 
cleaned currants, one and one-half pounds of seedless 
raisins, one-half pound citron chopped a little, soft 
brown sugar to taste. Work well together in the 
dough, Divide in about three loaves, put in the pans 
and set to rise about two hours, when it ought to be 
ready to bake. These currant loaves keep well in 
winter for several weeks if desired. 

Mrs. M. M. Moore. 
74 


FRIED CAKES. 

Break three eggs in a bowl, one cup of soft 
sugar, beat light, four tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 
one cup and a tablespoonful more of buttermilk, and 
small teaspoonful of soda, one large teaspoonful of 
salt. Flour added, not too stiff. Knead well, better to 
set away before frying. 

1875. Mary Shibley. 


GRAHAM BREAD. 

To one quart of wheat sponge add one tablespoon- 
ful of lard, one tablespoonful of sugar, salt to taste. 
Mix with graham flour a medium thick batter, fill the 
pans about three parts full and let them rise till light. 

Mrs. A. E. Scott. 


GRANDMA’S SHORTCAKE. 

A good quart of flour, rub in a half cup of butter. 
Put two cups of buttermilk into a bowl and put into it 
a teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little warm - 
water. Mix it all together lightly, add pinch of salt, 
roll it out, put in pan and criss-cross it with a fork, 
and bake in a pretty quick oven. 

1884. Mary Shibley. 


GRITS CORN BREAD. 

Two teacups of boiled grits, and while hot mix 
with a large spoonful of butter, beat four eggs very 
light and stir into the grits, add one pint of milk, grad- 
ually stirred in, and lastly half a pint of corn meal. 
Batter should be like rich boiled custard. If thicker 
add more milk. Bake in deep pan and allow space for 
rising. 

Columbia, S. C., April 11, 1878. 

75 


INDIAN LIGHT CAKE. 


One pint Indian meal, one pint milk, two eggs, 
one teaspoonful butter, one teaspoonful saleratus, salt 
to taste. Mix the butter and salt with the meal. Boil 
half the milk, add the dissolved sal. and the eggs, after 
they have been well beaten, to the remaining milk. 
Pour the boiling milk over the meal and let it cool, 
then add the cold milk and sal. 

Mrs. J. C. Michener. 


KATE’S POTATO YEAST, No. 2. 


Eight large potatoes grated raw, one teacup of 
white sugar, one tablespoonful of salt, one quart of 
boiling water. Stir all together on fire and let it boil 
up thick. Keep stirring, put away to cool and when 
lukewarm add one teacup of yeast. About once in 
two months the yeast should be changed. 

March 24, 1881. Katie Bruist. 


LIZZIE NICE’S INDIAN CAKES. 


One quart Indian meal with half a cup of flour, a 
little sugar, buttermilk or sour milk to make thin bat- 
ter. Beat four eggs very lightly and stir in last of all. 
Then add one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a 
little water. 

May, 1887. (A. No. 1.) 

LIGHT BISCUIT. 


One quart flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder 
mixed thoroughly with the flour, one tablespoonful of 
shortening, one teaspoonful of salt, sweet milk enough 
(one pint) to mix as soft as can be handled. (By Yre- 
quest.) Mrs. M. J. C. Whitaker. 

76 


FINE LUNCH BREAD. 


One pint flour, one tablespoonful of butter. Three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar (granulated), one teaspoonful 
bi-carbonate soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 
two eggs, one cup milk and a little salt. Bake in a flat 
pan in a quick oven. To be eaten hot with butter. 
(“Mrs. I. H.” From Mrs. Marion Cabell Tyree’s Vir- 
ginia Cook Book.) 

Excellent. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


MARYLAND BEAT BISCUIT. 


Take one quart of sifted flour, a piece of lard the 
size of a walnut, teaspoonful of salt and mix thor- 
oughly together. Add enough ice water to make a stiff 
dough and then beat, turning and shifting the dough 
for from thirty to thirty-five minutes. When beaten 
sufficiently the dough snaps, when broken, with a per- 
ceptible noise. Mold with fingers into small biscuits 
and prick with a fork, _Bake in hot oven. 

Mrs. John Moss, Jr. 


MARYLAND BISCUIT. 


One pound of flour, two eggs, weight of two eggs 
in lard, one small spoon of salt. Enough milk to make 
a dough not very stiff. Beat with an axe thirty-five 
minutes. Bake in hot oven forty minutes, put pan over 
them when half done to keep them from getting too 
brown. Mrs. C. P. Janney. 

' 7 


MARYLAND BISCUIT. 


Three pounds of flour, one-half pound shorten- 
ing, cream of tartar and soda. 
Mrs, J. H. Michener 


MARYLAND BISCUIT. 


Three pounds flour, two teaspoonfuls salt, one-half 
pound lard rubbed in flour, one pint water (no more), 
Put dough through meat chopper six times, make into 
small biscuits and bake in quick oven thirty minutes. 

Mrs. Robert Gover Allen. 


MUFFINS. 


Five eggs beaten separately, one cup of sweet 
milk, three tablespoonfuls of melted butter and three 
tablespoonfuls of baking powder. Flour enough to 
make batter like sponge cake. 

Tilly McK., Gibraltar. 


MUFFINS. 


One pint of milk, six ounces of lard, three eggs, 
one and one-half pounds of flour, one yeast cake. 
Put milk and lard on the stove until the lard melts, 
but the milk should not boil. Pour over the eggs 
(well beaten) and let cool. Put in the flour, beat well 
and lastly add yeast cake dissolved. 

Miss Isabel Miller. 
78 


OATMEAL BREAD. 


One-half cup Quaker oats, one-half tablespoon- 
ful lard, one pint boiling water poured over oatmeal. 
When cool put in one-half cake of yeast, one-quarter 
cup of molasses, one-quarter teaspoonful soda put in 
molasses, flour enough to mold. Let set over night. 
Put in pans in morning, let rise, and when light, baké. 
It requires a longer time to bake than wheat bread. 


OWEN DAW. 


Two cups of boiled hominy mashed fine (when 
cold), three-fourths cup corn meal, two eggs, one 
teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful butter (heaping), one 
pint sweet milk. Boil the milk and pour it over the 
meal, Then add all the other ingredients and stir 
together well.. Bake in a deep dish from forty min- 
utes to an hour. This is an old Southern recipe and 
is called also Egg Bread and Butter Bread. It cam be 
baked in a shallow pan and cut and served like corn 
bread. 


PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 


Two quarts flour. Rub in one tablespoonful of 
lard. Make a hole in middle of flour and pour in one 
pint of cold boiled milk, one cup of yeast, and one cup 
of sugar. Do not stir. Let this rise over night. In 
the morning add salt, and make to a stiff dough and 
work well. Let stand until after dinner time. Roll 
out and cut with tumbler. Spread with butter or milk 
and fold. When very light bake in slow oven. 


79 


POP-OVERS. 


One pint milk, one pint flour, three eggs beaten 
separately, salt, bake in rings in quick oven as for 
biscuits. 


POTATO BISCUIT. 


Four good sized potatoes boiled and mashed fine, 
the yolks of three eggs well beaten, one cup of yeast, 
one teacup of butter or lard, one quart of flour, one 
teaspoonful of sugar, one of salt, mix and let raise. 
When you make them into biscuit add as much flour 
as is requisite to handle, but let them be as soft’as pos- 
sible. Mrs. Robert Gover Allen, Darlington, Md. 


POTATO PUFF BISCUIT. 


One-half cup mashed potatoes, one egg, one small 
cup of sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls of melted but- 
ter, pinch of sugar and enough flour to stiffen in 
which has been sifted two teaspoonfuls of Royal bak- 
ing powder. Bake in quick oven. This quantity 
makes twelve gems or biscuits. Mrs. A. E. Scott. 


IRISH POTATO CAKES. 


When the potatoes are boiled, mash them well and 
add a piece of butter the size of a large egg and a little 
cream, to two cups of the mashed potatoes; then add 
a cup of flour, a little salt (and nutmeg if desired). 
Mix quickly together, roll out about half an inch thick. 

80 


Cut in round cakes and bake. Some like them split and 
buttered (before serving) or buttered on one side only, 
as to taste. Made with fresh hot mashed potatoes 
they are much nicer and they only require enough 
baking to brown them well. 

June, 1902. Miss Dorwin, Montreal, Canada. 


POTATO PUFFS. 


One pint new milk boiled, one-quarter pound of 
butter or lard, one tablespoonful of sugar, a pinch of 
salt, six large potatoes mashed hot and enough flour 
to make a thick batter; use one-half yeast cake. Let 
it raise very light, then knead into a stiff dough, roll 
out thin, put two together (spreading a little butter 
between), let them raise two hours. Bake in a quick 
oven. Very delicious. Mrs. W. H. Tomlinson. 


POTATO SPLIT BISCUIT. 


Boil two large white potatoes. While hot mash 
through vegetable strainer into a stone bread jar. 
Into the hot potatoes stir a teacupful of lard and but- 
ter mixed, salt, and add two well beaten eggs. To 
this add a teacupful of milk in which has been dis- 
solved one-half cake of compressed yeast and a table- 
spoonful of sugar. Stir in a quart of sifted flour; mix 
this at nine in the morning, cover and leave in the 
kitchen in winter. At twelve o’clock add to the dough 
a pint of sifted flour. Set away for second rising. 
At five in afternoon squeeze out small biscuits and let 
tise two hours for seven o’clock supper. 

Miss Onderdonk. 
81 


RICE CAKES. 


Pick and wash one-half pint of rice, boil it very 
soft, then drain it; stir in one-fourth pound butter and 
let stand to get cold. Sift one and one-half pounds 
flour over the pan of rice, a saltspoonful of salt. Beat 
the yolks of five eggs very light and stir them in 
gradually with one quart milk. Then add the beaten 
whites of the eggs. Beat the whole very hard and 
bake in muffin rings or waffle irons. 

‘Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


RICE CAKES. 


Boil half a pound of rice soft, add when warm 
piece of butter size of an egg, four eggs beaten 
separately, one quart of milk, a little salt, two heaping 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder and about one and a 
half pints of flour. 


RICE SCONES. 


One pound rice, one-quarter pound flour, one 
teaspoonful sugar, one-half teaspoonful of salt. Put 
rice, sugar and salt into a saucepan with one quart 
water. Let it come to a boil, then set on one side of 
fire and steam for two hours, covered closely. When 
the water has been absorbed and rice is soft, sprinkle 
flour on the baking board and turn the rice out on it. 
Let it stand until cool, then divide into six parts and 
roll out thin. Cut each part in three and bake on a 
moderately hot griddle. 

Old Scotch recipe. 

82 


OLD FASHIONED RUSKS. 


One-half pint of milk, piece of butter size of a 
walnut, one tablespoonful of lard; warm together. 
Beat one egg very light; then set them to raise with 
as much yeast as you think right to make a sponge. 
When light make up the sponge, adding sugar to taste. 
When ready for the pan put them close together that 
they may puff up better. (C. H. H.) 

Also Mrs. E. S. Pugh. 

Found in an old letter. 


SALLY LUNN. 


Five cups flour, one and one-half cups milk, one- 
half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup 
yeast, three eggs. Set to rise at 10.30 for a seven 
o’clock supper. Pour in pans about four o’clock, let 
it rise two hours and bake three-quarters of an hour 
or more. Mrs. Walker. 


SALLY LUNN. 


Three eggs, quarter of a cup of sugar, one heaping 
tablespoonful of butter, a quarter of a yeast cake. 
Beat the eggs well and add gradually to the creamed 
butter and sugar; add yeast and stir in enough flour 
to make a rather stiff batter (stiffer than that for 
cake). Set to rise and in about six or eight hours stir 
in a little flour. Beat smooth and pour into a bowl or 
muffin tins. Let it rise about a half hour and bake in 
moderate oven. Eat hot and cut in thick slices. The 
sugar can be left out and salt used instead. This can 

83 


be made at about ten o’clock in the morning and eaten 
at supper, or can be made at night for breakfast next 
morning. 

April, 1906. 1. C. Hubard. 


SALLY LUNN. 


One and one-half pounds sifted flour, make a hole 
in the middle of the flour, put in two ounces butter 
warmed in one pint new milk, teaspoonful of salt, 
three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of fresh yeast (or one- 
half cake of yeast), mix all together and pour the 
whole mixture into a square pan well greased. Set 
it in a warm place to rise, and when light bake in a 
moderate oven, or you may bake in small muffin rings. 

Very fine and been well tested. 

Mrs. W. H. Tomlinson. 


SALLY LUNN No. 1. 


Two pounds flour, one-half pound of butter, 
three eggs, one pint of milk, one-half gill of yeast, 
salt to taste. Cut up flour and butter, beat the eggs, 
add them to the flour with the milk. Bake one hour. 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


SALLY LUNN No. 2. 


One pound flour, one-quarter pound of butter, 
two eggs, salt to taste, one gill of yeast. Warm butter 
in a little milk. When the milk is lukewarm stir in 
the flour with the eggs beaten light. Butter mould 
and set to rise. Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


84 


QUICK SALLY LUNN. 


One egg, one-half cup sugar, one cup milk, one 
tablespoonful butter, two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, dash of nutmeg. Bake one-half hour 
in moderate oven. 

Quantities may be doubled. 


RAISED SALLY LUNN. 


Make a sponge of one pint of new milk in morning. 
When light, beat separately four eggs, one cup sugar, 
one cup butter, little nutmeg, salt, make a stiff batter, 
put in pans to lighten, then bake one hour in moderate 
oven. Use cake pans with stem. 


SCALDED BATTER BREAD. 


Two-thirds of a quart of sifted cornmeal, three 
eggs, boiling water, milk and salt. Pour boiling water 
on meal gradually, stirring all the time, till a mod- 
erately stiff batter is formed. Add a little fresh sweet 
milk and the well beaten eggs; then more milk until 
you have a soft mixture. Pour into a bowl and bake 
rather slowly. Miss Isaetta C Hubard. 


SODA SCONES. © 


Two pounds flour (one quart is one pound), small 
teaspoonful soda, three-fourths teaspoonful cream of 
tartar or one teaspoonful salt, buttermilk. Mix dry 
ingredients together thoroughly and lightly, add but- 
termilk to make a soft dough, divide into six pieces, 

85 


sprinkle flour on baking board, roll out lightly, to 
about one inch thick and bake on a hot griddle till a 
pale brown, turn and bake on the other side. 

Scotch recipe. 


SOFT CORN BREAD. 


One pint of boiled rice, one cup of white corn 
meal, four eggs, tablespoonful of lard and butter 
mixed, small spoonful of baking powder, put dry in 
the meal before sifting. Beat all together and add 
enough milk to make it as thin as for batter cakes. 
The secret of this bread is not to have the batter thick. 

This is a favorite Southern breakfast dish. 

Miss E. Harrison, Baltimore Inn, Cape May. 


SPANISH BUNS. 


One pound flour, one pound sugar, one-half 
pound butter, six eggs, one teacupful sour cream; 
divide the cream, and in one-half dissolve one tea- 
spoonful bicarb. soda, in the other half, two teaspoon- 
fuls cream of tartar. Add glass wine, flavor with lemon 
or cinnamon. Bake in a shallow pon, or individual 
pans. (Mrs. Moore, Mt. Jackson, Virginia.) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


SPANISH PUFFS. 


A lump of butter, size of a walnut, and a very 
little salt. Melt the butter. Eight eggs, beaten 
separate. Beat the yolks, butter and one pint of milk, 
eight tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir in the whites. Fill 
your cups half full and bake about twenty minutes. 
Fine. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 

86 


ST. CHARLES, OR INDIAN BREAD. 


Beat two eggs very light, mix with them one pint 
of sour milk (sweet milk will do), then add a tea- 
spoonful of soda, or baking powder if you have used 
sweet milk, then stir in slowly one pint of Indian meal 
and one tablespoonful of melted butter. Beat these 
well together and bake in a quick oven. The bread ° 
can be made very good without eggs. 

This was a great favorite at the St. Charles Hotel, 
New Orleans. * M. B. Packer. 


SUNDERLAND PUFFS. 


Sixteen tablespoonfuls of flour, one quart of milk, 
six eggs. Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


SWEET BISCUIT. 


One quart of new milk, one-half pound butter, one 
pound sugar, three eggs, one nutmeg, one teacup of 
yeast, add flour enough to make a dough, and knead 
about five minutes; when light mold into biscuit and 
let stand until very light; bake fifteen minutes. 

Miss Anna Smyth. 


VIRGINIA CORN BREAD. 


One pint corn meal, one pint milk, one pint sour 
cream, two eggs, one teaspoonful soda, one teaspoon- 
ful salt. Bake half hour in hot oven. 

Mrs. C. P. Janney. 
87 


ICE WATER TEA BISCUIT. 


Four even cups of flour, four teaspoonfuls baking 
powder sifted through the flour, one even teaspoonful 
of salt, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, two heaping 
tablespoonfuls of lard, one cup of ice water. Handle 
as little as possible. Mrs. G. J. H. Apeldorn. 


AUNTIE MC’S WAFFLES. 


One quart of buttermilk, two eggs, beaten sep- 
arately. Stir the buttermilk into the yolks, add a half 
a teaspoonful of salt, beat in flour and beaten whites 
alternately. Last of all add one even teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in a little boiling water, which stir in 
with long even light strokes. 

October, 1887. 


GERMAN WAFFLES. 


Three-fourths pound flour, one-half pound butter, 
one pint lukewarm milk, seven eggs, one and one-half 
tablespoonfuls brewer’s yeast mixed in a little milk. 
Flavor with nutmeg or lemon rind. Beat the butter 
to a cream, then add some of the flour and beaten 
yolks of the eggs alternately, also milk, until all are 
mixed in, lastly, the yeast and beaten whites of eggs. 
Beat the batter until it bubbles; let it stand to rise. 
(“Pottsville.”), Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


LOUISE WAFFLES. 


One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one of 
sugar, half teaspoonful of baking powder, one pint of 
88 


milk, one pint of water mixed together, four eggs, put 
yolks in the batter, beat very light and stir in the 
whites just before baking. 

September, 1899. 


MARY MORRISON’S WAFFLES. 


Four eggs, one pint of milk, two teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, flour to make a thick batter, one pint 
sufficient, salt. Beat yolks of eggs light and add the 
milk; then the flour and salt, beaten whites of eggs 
very light and last of all the two heaping teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. 

Chicken and Waffle Supper, Parvin Hall. 

February 18, 1903. 


WAFFLES. 


One quart of flour, one pint of milk, half a table- 
spoonful of butter, pinch of salt and a pinch of sugar. 
Small cup of yeast or half a yeast cake, three eggs. 
Heat milk, put in butter, pour over flour, add yeast, 
sugar and salt and set to rise three or four hours. Beat 
eggs separately and add fifteen minutes before serv- 
ing. 

August, 1899. Mrs. Jay Cooke, Jr. 


WAFFLES. 


Make a batter of one and one-half pounds of flour, 
butter the size of a walnut and two large spoonfuls of 
yeast. Put in three eggs, the whites and yolks beaten 
separately ; mix it with a quart of milk and put in the 
butter just before you bake. Allow four hours to rise. 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 
89 


WAFFLES. 


Three eggs, three cups of milk, one large tea- 
spoonful of butter, same of lard, two of baking pow- 
der, salt, flour sufficient to make the batter stiff as for 
drop cakes. Mrs. E. W. Appleton. 


WAFELES. 


One quart sweet milk, three eggs, one-half cup 
butter, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one-half tea- 
spoonful bicarb. soda. Melt butter in half the milk. 
Stir in flour to make as thick as for griddle cakes. 
(Mrs. J. W. C., Schooley’s Mts.) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


WISCONSIN CAKE. 


Two teacups of Graham flour, one cup of white 
flour, two eggs, one pint of milk. Beat eggs together 
and mix all together well; add a little salt. Heat 
muffin pans hot, put a small piece of butter in each and 
pour in mixture. Bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 


YORKSHIRE MUFFINS. 


Four tablespoonfuls of good yeast to a pint of 
lukewarm water. Add a little salt and stir in enough 
flour to make a stiff batter. When risen bake in rings 
or on a griddle. 

August, 1899. Mrs.W.W = Harding. 

90 


XI. CAKES. 


ALLENTOWN CAKE. 


Two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, butter size 
of two eggs, two eggs, three cups flour, one-half nut- 
meg, one teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of 
tartar. Mix the butter and sugar together, break the 
eggs into it and beat all together. Add the milk with 
“soda and cream of tartar dissolved in it. Add flour. 
Medium oven. Mrs. O. H. Paxson. 


ALMOND CAKE. 


Three-fourths cup butter, one and one-half cups 
granulated sugar, three-fourths cup sweet milk, three 
cups flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one table- 
spoonful extract of almond, whites of four eggs beaten 
very stiff. Bake forty-five minutes. . 

Mrs. Robert Gover Allen. 


ANGEL CAKE. , 


Whites of nine large or ten small eggs, one and 

a quarter cups of sifted granulated sugar, one cup of 

sifted flour, half teaspoonful of cream of tartar, a 

pinch of salt added to eggs before beating. After 

sifting flour four or five times, measure one and a 
or 


quarter cups of granulated sugar, beat whites of 
eggs, add cream of tartar and beat until very very 
light. Stir in sugar, then flour very lightly. Put in 
pan in moderate oven at once; bake thirty-five min- 
utes to fifty minutes. 


ANGEL CAKE. 


Whites of twelve eggs, one and one-fourth cups of 
granulated sugar, one cup of flour (measure after sift- 
ing several times), three-fourths teaspoonful cream of 
tartar, bitter almond to taste. Add pinch of salt to 
eggs before whipping. Whip eggs to foam, add cream 
of tartar and whip until very stiff (use spoon or whip 
beater, never rotary); add sifted sugar and beat in 
lightly ; then beat in flavoring; add gradually the flour, 
folding this in very lightly. 

Never beat in the flour, it makes cake tough. Put 
in an ungreased Van Dusen pan and bake for one hour 
in a moderate oven. The cake should rise to desired 
lightness before beginning to brown, probably in 
twenty minutes. 

When top is brown as desired place a pan of cold 
water on the slide above the cake, and an asbestos mat 
beneath cake pan, to prevent scorching. When done 
remove to a cool place and invert, leaving cake hang- 
ing in mold to cool. This is the only way to prevent 
settling. Mrs. Charles Jolls, Wyoming, Del. 


POOR MAN’S APPLE CAKE. 


Three large apples, pared, sliced thin and put 
evenly on large pie plate. Make a batter of flour, a 
92 


small piece of butter and lard rubbed well in the flour. 
Milk and one egg. Mix with the flour, at the last one 
small teaspoonful of baking powder. Pour this batter 
carefully over the apples and bake until brown and 
done through. Take from oven and turn over on 
another plate. Sprinkle brown sugar and cinnamon 
over, and eat hot. M. M. Moore. 


BATH BUNS. 


One-half pound butter, one pound brown sugar, 
five eggs, scant small cup of milk, one tablespoonful 
cinnamon, one-half tablespoonful cloves, three table- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Flour enough to make stiff 
enough to drop on tins, about one quart ; two teaspoon- 
fuls ginger. (Miss S. T. Little.) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


BANANA CAKE. 


One heaping tablespoonful of butter, two cups of 
sugar, three and three-quarters cups of flour, one cup 
of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor 
with vanilla. 

FILLING.—Whites of three eggs, nine teaspoon- 
fuls pulverized sugar, flavor with vanilla. Cut the 
cake in four layers, and spread with icing. Cover thick 
with sliced bananas. Take one banana for one cake 
and bake in loaf. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


BURGESS CAKE. 


Three-fourths pound butter, one pound sugar, one 
wineglass of brandy, one teaspoonful of nutmeg and 
93 


cinnamon mixed, four eggs beaten separately, one-half 
pound currants, about ten ounces flour. Rub the butter 
and sugar together until smooth, then add the yolks of 
the eggs, brandy and spices. When thoroughly mixed 
add about half the flour, then the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, mix the remaining half of the 
flour with the currants and stir lightly into the mixture. 
Bake on tin sheets in a moderate oven. See that you 
don’t get too much flour, or the cakes will not be crisp. 
Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


BUTTERCUP CAKE. 


One pound flour, one pound sugar, one-half pound 
butter, one cup sweet milk, six eggs, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. Beat butter to a cream; then add 
sugar, beat thoroughly; then add the eggs (without 
being beaten), beat thoroughly; then add the milk. 
Have the flour sifted, mix baking powder in the flour. 
Add the flour to the mixture, and beat thoroughly. 

The above will make two good sized cakes. 

Mrs. Lavinia C. Schlater. 


CHEAP CAKE. 


One cup sugar, one tablespoonful butter, creamed 
together for five minutes, one egg, beaten light and 
beaten well in butter, one cup milk, two cups flour, 
pinch of salt, saltspoon of nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls 
of Royal baking powder. Put batter in pan, then 
sprinkle the top with cinnamon and brown sugar. 

Mrs. Spencer. 


94 


CHOCOLATE CAKE. 


Two cups of sugar, three-quarters of a cup of 
butter, three cups of flour, half a cup of milk, two 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder in the flour. Whites 
of eight eggs. 

Chocolate Icing.—Quarter of a cake of Baker’s 
chocolate, one cup of sugar, half a cup of milk, but- 
ter the size of a walnut, flavor when cool with vanilla. 

Mrs. T. M. Sloane, Sandusky, O. 


CLARA CAKE. 


One-half pound butter, one pound sugar, six eggs, 
one quart sifted flour, one cup sweet milk, nutmeg, one 
teaspoonful bicarb. soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of 
tartar. Add the eggs last of all. 

Mrs, Henry P. Taylor. 


MRS. PETER’S' COFFEE CAKE. 


One cup molasses, one cup butter, one-half cup 
brown sugar, one-half cup strong coffee, two eggs, 
one-half teaspoonful soda, one pound raisins, one- 
fourth pound citron, two and one-half cups flour, a 
little brandy or wine, cinnamon and cloves to taste. 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


COOKIES. 


One cup of butter, two and one-half cups of sugar, 
one cup sour cream, two eggs, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, and flour 
enough to roll out thin. Ida E. Morrell. 

95 


COOKIES. 


One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one large 
egg, one-half cup of milk, flavor with vanilla, two 
“ teaspoonfuls baking powder. Mix with flour till you 
can roll it. Roll thin, cut out. After putting in pan 
sprinkle with little sugar. Bake in hot oven. 
The crisp “moreish” kind, that grandma used “to 
try” to make. Mrs. O. H. Haines. 


COCOANUT DROPS. 


One pound grated cocoanut, one pound sugar, two 
eggs. Roll in balls, bake on buttered paper in moderate 
oven. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


COCOANUT JUMBLES. 


One pound grated cocoanut, one-half pound but- 
ter, one pound sugar, three eggs, one teaspoonful rose- 
water. Flour to form dough. Cut in strips, join the 
ends, bake on tins. (Mrs. Henderson.) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


COCOANUT POUND CAKE. 


One cup butter, three cups sugar, four cups flour, 
five eggs, one-half grated (large) cocoanut, one tea- 
spoonful bicarb. soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of tar- 
tar. When icing use seven eggs, reserving two whites 
for the icing. 

Icing.—Whites two eggs, one-half pound pul- 
verized sugar, one-half grated cocoanut. (Mrs. H.) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 
96 


CREAM SPONGE. 


Five eggs, whites and yolks separate; one cup 
white sugar, one cup flour, cream filling, one pint - 
milk, one and one-half teaspoonfuls of corn starch, 
one egg, two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Boil until 
thick. Flavor with vanilla. Bake in layers. 

E. Packer. 


CREAM CAKES, 


One-half pound of butter and one pint of water 
and while boiling stir in three-fourths pound flour. 
After mixture has cooled a little stir in ten eggs with-" 
out beating. Fill muffin rings half full and bake one- 
half an hour, or until cake shrinks from sides of rings, 
open sides and put in cream filling. 

Cream Filling—Boil one and one-half pints 
milk; when scalding hot stir in one cup sugar, one 
cup flour, four eggs beaten together. Flavor with 
lemon or vanilla. 


Another recipe from my “Grandmother Wade,” 
and as old as the above. M.B.W. 


CRISP GINGER CAKES—VERY GOOD. 


One and one-half pounds butter, three and one; 
half pounds flour, one-half pound sugar, one quart 
N. O. molasses, one ounce cinnamon. Rub the butter 
into the flour, add sugar and molasses. Make out in 
thin cakes and bake. Mrs. M. B. Wolff. 

97 


CRISP GINGER CAKES. 


Three pounds flour, one pound sugar, one pound 
butter; mix together with three tablespoonfuls of 
ginger, one teaspoonful cloves. Add one quart mo- 
lasses, one teaspoonful of soda. Roll thin, cut im 
shapes and bake in quick oven. 


CRULLERS. 


One tablespoonful of butter, one cup granulated 
sugar. Mix together and add two well beaten eggs, 
one cup sweet milk, three cups flour, with two small 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor with a little 
nutmeg or one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon. Bake 
in hot lard. This quantity will make about four dozen 
crullers. A good old “country” recipe. 

Mrs. E. Moore, Phenixville, Pa. 


CRULLERS. 


Five eggs, one cup of cream whipped until stiff, 
one tablespoonful of butter, two cups of sugar, three 
tablespoonfuls baking powder, flour to thicken. 
(Kindness of Mrs. E. T. Pugh, Housekeeper of Chil- 
dren’s Homeopathic Hospital, Philadelphia.) 


CRULLERS. 


As made by my grandmother, Mrs. Benjamin 
Wade, of Elizabeth, N. J., as early as 1825. 
Mary Bunting Wolf. 
Two pounds flour, four ounces butter, ten ounces 
sugar, six eggs, little nutmeg. Rub the butter with 
the sugar, add the well beaten eggs and the flour. 
Make out and fry in hot fat. 


98 


CRULLERS. 


One and one-half cups of sugar, two eggs, one 
large tablespoonful of butter, two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder, a little salt, one nutmeg, grated, and one 
cup of sweet milk. Flour enough to make a soft 
dough. Roll out and fry in lard. M. B. Packer. 


CRULLERS. 


One.cup light brown sugar, two eggs beaten very 
light, one cup milk, three tablespoonfuls melted lard, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, flour to make soft 
dough. Roll out thin, cut with cruller cutter, and 
fry in boiling hot lard in a deep vessel. 

Mrs. E. M. Jenkins. 


CRULLERS. 


Three cups of granulated sugar, two and a half 
cups of milk, one cooking spoon of lard, one nutmeg, 
six teaspoonfuls of baking powder; sufficient flour to 
make stiff batter. This makes half a bushel. 

January, 1896. Miss McMillan. 


CURRANT CAKE. 


One cup butter, one cup milk, two cups sugar, 
three cups flour, one cup currants, five eggs beaten 
separately, two teaspoonfuls Royal: baking powder. 
Put in lined pan or individual pans and bake well. 

Mrs. H. P. Taylor. 
99 


DELAWARE POUND CAKE. 


One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of flour, ten eggs (the whites of four left out). 
‘Cream the sugar and butter together, add one nut- 
meg grated fine, or a wineglass of rosewater. Break 
two eggs at a time until all the number are in, then 

_ add flour; beat very light and bake one hour and 
three-quarters: in a steady oven. 
Mrs. M. J. C. Whitaker. 


DEVIL'S CAKE. 


Grate one-half cake of Baker’s chocolate and mix 
with one-half cup of milk, one cup of sugar and one 
teaspoonful of vanilla and cool while mixing the 

Cake.—One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup milk, two eggs, two and one-half cups flour, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Add the boiled 
chocolate and bake in layers. 

Icing.—Two cups sugar, one-half cup water, 
boil, add whites of two eggs. 


DEVIL CAKE. 


Three eggs, one and one-half cups of granulated 
sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup of sour milk 
or cream, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one-half cake of bitter chocolate. Bake in layers and 
ice with either chocolate or white frosting. 

This cake can be made very attractive by deco- 
rating the top with chocolate nonpareils. 

Mrs. James P. E. Scott. 
100 


DEVIL'S FOOD. 


One cup granulated sugar, three-quarters of a 
cup of butter. Cream together, add the well beaten 
yolks of two eggs, one cup of milk, two cups flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Mix in with a 
half cup of flour last of all, then the whites of the 
eggs, which must be well beaten. Disaolve in half 
a cup of milk one-quarter of a cake of chocolate and 
one cup of granulated sugar, and when dissolved 
and lukewarm pour in the above mixture, add one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Bake in two layers and use 
boiled frosting between layers and spread on top. 

Miss H. E. Thomas. 


“MOTHER'S” DROP CAKES. 


One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup sour 
cream, four cups flour, one teaspoonful bicarbonate 
of soda, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, three eggs. 
Mix stiff enough to drop with spoon. Sugar on top. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


DROP COOKIES. 
(Extra Fine.) 


One and one-half cups butter, three cups sugar, 
six cups flour, one cup milk, four eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful bicarbonate soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of tar- 
tar. Flavor with vanilla. Drop on buttered tins. 
(Mrs. C.) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 

101 


EASTON TEA CAKE. 


Six ounces sugar, two ounces butter, two eggs, 
one-half pint milk, three-quarters of a pound flour, 
three teaspoonfuls Royal baking powder. Sprinkle 
granulated sugar and cinnamon over the top before 
putting in oven. (“Miss E. W.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


ENGLISH CAKE. 
Take five eggs, beat, and add their weight in 


sugar and the weight of three eggs in butter and of 
four eggs in flour. Mrs. O. H. Paxson. 


ENGLISH TEA CAKE. 


One-half cup sweet milk, one-half cup softened, 


butter, one-half cup raisins, two heaping cups flour, 
nutmeg to taste, one cup sugar, two eggs (whites * 
and yolks beaten separately), one-half grated lemon’ 
peel, two even teaspoonfuls baking powder. Cream 
butter and sugar together, add yolks of eggs and stir 
well. Add milk, stiffly beaten whites and flour, 
through which baking powder has been sifted. Then, 
after flouring the raisins to prevent their falling to 
the bottom of the cake, stir them well through the 
dough. Add lemon peel and flavoring. Place greased 
paper in bottom of cake tin and bake in moderate 
oven. : 

This is delicious when stale if toasted. (Copied 
from an English paper.) B. McGeorge. 

102 


FEATHER CAKE. 


- Two cups sugar, two cups sifted flour, one cup 
rich sweet milk, four eggs, two large tablespoonfuls 
butter, two tablespoonfuls of baking powder. Flavor 
with vanilla. For icing take juice of two lemons or 
oranges made stiff with powdered sugar, well beaten, 
and put on when cake is cold. 

This is a simple cake, but very light and delicious. 
Miss Walker. 


MRS. NAPOLEON STETSON’S FRUIT CAKE. 


One pound butter, one pound sugar, twelve eggs 
beaten separately, one cup molasses, one pound sifted 
flour, one cup sherry wine, one-half cup of brandy or 
whiskey, two pounds soft figs (if hard, soak in the 
wine two or three days), three pounds stoned raisins, 
two pounds currants, one-half pound citron, cut in 
very thin strips, one-quarter pound candied orange 
peel, one-quarter pound candied lemon peel, grated 
rihd of two lemons, one-half teaspoonful ground 
cloves, three grated nutmegs, one tablespoonful ground 
cinnamon, juice of two lemons and of one orange, one- 
quarter teaspoonful soda, small tablespoonful ground 
mace. Rub butter and sugar together, stir in well 
beaten yolks of eggs, then add flour, stirring well; 
then well beaten whites of eggs; now add molasses, 
sherry, braady, lemon juice, spices and soda (dis- 
solved in a little water). Now add the raisins and 
currants, grated rind of lemon and candied peel, cut 
fine. Line two two-quart pans with greased writing 
paper. First pour a layer of batter into the pan, then 

103 


place a layer of whole figs, then another layer of 
the batter, then a layer of citron, then more batter, 
another layer of figs and another of batter. Bake in 
a moderate oven four hours. 
Contributed for the Hahnemann Cook Book by 
Mrs. John B. Stetson. 


FRUIT CAKE. 


One pound flour, one pound butter, one pound 
sugar, twelve eggs, two pounds raisins, two pounds 
currants, one-half pound citron, four tablespoonfuls 
mace, one cup strong black coffee, or, if preferred, 
glass of wine or brandy, one pound black walnut 
kernels, one-half pound figs, cut fine. Bake six hours. 
Let stay in oven over night. 

Mrs. F. T. Yates, Baltimore, Md. 
Miss E. J. Hood. 


FRUIT CAKE. 


I have for many years made about. fifty pounds 
from this recipe each year; it has always proved ac- 
ceptable. 

One pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound 
flour, nine eggs, tea cup of brandy and water mixed, 
one and one-half pounds raisins, one and one-half 
pounds currants, one-half pound citron, one-half 
pound lemon and orange peel, one-half teaspoonful 
cloves, oné teaspoonful of allspice, two teaspoonfuls 
of cinnamon. Cream butter and sugar well, add yolks 
and beat again; then the water and brandy; then add 
the well beaten whites and turn in flour last after put- 
ting in the floured fruit. Bake in two cakes about 
three hours. Mary Bunting Wolf. 

104 


FRUIT CAKE (E. P. K’s). 


One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one 
pound of flour, twelve eggs, one-half gill of brandy, 
one nutmeg, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, one and one-half pounds of 
raisins, one and one-half pounds of currants, one 
pound of citron, one-half cup of molasses. Beat but- 
ter and sugar to a cream, whisk the eggs until thick 
and add them by degrees; then add the flour, brandy 
and spices, and, lastly, the fruit. Mix the whole well 
together, paper the pans and bake in a moderate oven. 
Flour the fruit well the night before, slice the citron 
in small pieces. Mrs. George Kelly. 


FRUIT CAKE. 


One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one 
pound of flour, ten eggs, three pounds of currants, 
two pounds of raisins, one pound of citron, one-half 
teacup of brandy, one teacup of molasses, two nut- 
megs grated, two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, a pinch 
of mace. Soak spices in brandy a little while before 
mixing. Bake four hours. . 

Cake made by this recipe won first premium for 
three successive seasons at Delaware State Fair. 

Mrs. M. J. C. Whitaker. 


FRUIT CAKE. 


One pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound 
flour, ten eggs, one pound citron, one pound raisins, 
one pound currants, one large nutmeg, one teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, one teaspoonful cloves, one wine glass 

105, 


rosewater, one-half wine glass wine, one-half wine 
glass brandy. Half this quantity makes a moderate 
sized loaf. Mrs. T. W. Tomkins. 


FRUIT GINGERBREAD. 


One cup New Orleans molasses, one cup butter, 
one cup brown sugar, one cup sour milk or butter- 
milk, three cups flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
cinnamon, one teaspoonful allspice, one-half teaspoon- 
ful cloves, one tablespoonful ginger, one teaspoonful 
bicarbonate of soda dissolved in a little hot water, 
one teaspoonful salt; add currants and raisins. Bake 
in shallow pans. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


GERMAN ALMOND COOKIES. 


One pound butter, one pound sugar, four eggs, 
one and one-half pounds flour, two tablespoonfuls 
rosewater, one tablespoonful vanilla, three tablespoon- 
fuls sherry wine, grated rind and juice of one lemon, 
one pound almonds chopped fine. Cream butter, add 
sugar, eggs, flour, etc., and flavorings, and, last, 
chopped almonds.’ Roll as thin as the blade of a 
knife. (From a German source.) 

Contributed by Mrs. Valentine Morris. 


GINGERBREAD NUTS OR CHRISTMAS 
CAKE. 


Three pounds flour, one pound butter and lard 
mixed, one and one-quarter pounds sugar, one-half 
cup cinnamon, one-half cup ground ginger, one-half 
cup ground allspice, one pint molasses, chopped or 

106 


grated peel of one orange. Cream the butter and 
sugar, add molasses, spices and flour. Roll out rather 
thin and bake about ten minutes. 

A pinch of soda, dissolved in a little milk or 
boiling water corrects the acidity of this modern 
molasses. (An old recipe from Bethlehem, Pa.) 


SOFT GINGERBREAD. 


One small cup of butter, one cup of brown sugar 
(beaten to a cream), two eggs (yolks and whites 
beaten separately), one cup of molasses, one cup of 
buttermilk, one teaspoonful of soda (dissolved in the 
milk), two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of ginger, 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon. 

This simple recipe I have used for thirty years, 
and it has never failed to please. 

Mrs. John M. Butler. 


SOFT GINGERBREAD, SUPERIOR. 


Two cups butter, two cups New Orleans molasses, 
two cups sugar, two cups sour milk or buttermilk, 
two eggs (beaten separately), two teaspoonfuls of 
ginger, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, one-half tea- 
spoonful cloves, flour enough to make a soft batter 
like pound cake. Mary Bunting Wolf. 


GINGER CAKE. 


One cup New Orleans molasses, one cup brown 
sugar, one cup butter and lard, one-half cup sour milk, 
two eggs, tablespoonful of giriger, level teaspoonful 
of soda. Cream sugar and lard, beat eggs and add. 

107 


Stir ginger in molasses and add; beat the soda in the 
milk and stir all together. Add enough flour to drop 
from the spoon. Beat very thoroughly and bake in a 
slow oven. Mrs. O. H. Paxson. 


GINGER COOKIES. 


One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup 
of butter, one tablespoonful of vinegar. Mix all to- 
gether and let come to a boil; set away to cool; then 
add two tablespoonfuls of ginger, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, two teaspoonfuls of baking soda, two eggs 
(beaten), a pinch of salt and enough flour to roll out 
very thin. Dust with granulated sugar and bake in 
moderate oven. : Mrs. C. P. Allen. 


EXTRA GINGER SNAPS. 


Into one quart flour rub one teaspoonful bicar- 
bonate of soda, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one 
cup butter; then add two cups molasses, one cup 
‘sugar, one-half cup milk, one egg, ginger and a little 
cayenne pepper to taste. After being well mixed add 
just enough flour to roll them out thin. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


GINGER WAFERS. 


One-half pint New Orleans molasses, one egg, 
one-quarter pound granulated sugar, one-quarter 
pound butter, one-half pound flour, one tablespoonful 
of ginger, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one teaspoonful 
cloves. Boil the syrup and add to a little of it one 
teaspoonful of soda. Mix. Drop on buttered tins 
from a teaspoon. Mrs. Robert Gover Allen. 

108 


GINGER POUND CAKE. 


One cup of butter (half a pound), one cup of 
sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of milk, three 
cups of flour, three eggs, one tablespoonful of ginger, 
one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of 
soda. Mrs. J. B. Ritter. 


GOLD CAKE. 

One-quarter pound butter, one-half pound sugar, 
yolks of seven eggs, one-half pound flour, rind and 
juice of one lemon, one-half teaspoonful bicarbonate 
of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


HARLEQUIN CAKE. 


One-quarter pound butter, one-half pound pulver- 
ized sugar, whites of seven eggs, one-half pound flour, 
two teaspoonfuls Royal baking powder, one-half cup 
sweet milk. Mix butter and sugar to a cream, add 
the milk, then the flour, and, lastly, the eggs, beaten 
light. Use half the batter for white layer; color the 
remainder with strawberry coloring for the pink 
layer and bake. Then take one-quarter pound butter, 
one-half pound pulverized sugar, yolks of seven eggs, 
one-half pound flour, two teaspoonfuls Royal baking 
powder, one-half cup sweet milk. Proceed as before. 
Use half the batter for yellow layer, and into the 
remainder melted grated chocolate enough to make a 
good brown. 

Ice each layer with vanilla icing and grated cocoa- 
nut. In arranging layers, first the chocolate, then 
yellow, third pink, and last, white layer. (“Estelle.”) 

Mrs. Henry P.. Taylor. 
109 


HERD CAKE. 


Two cups of sugar, two heaping tablespoonfuls 
of butter, three eggs, one cup of sweet milk, three 
cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 
Flavor to taste. Bake in layer tins. 

Etta Morrell. 


HICKORY NUT CAKE. 


One cup of butter, two and a half cups of sugar, 
one cup of milk, three and a half cups of flour, five 
eggs, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one pint 
of hickory nut meats, one-half pound of citron, one 
pound of raisins. This makes two cakes. Bake one 
hour. Mrs. Elizabeth Lohman, Gibraltar, Ohio. 


HUCKLEBERRY CAKE. 


One cup of butter and two cups of sugar, three of 
flour, five eggs, one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in hot water, one teaspoonful 
of nutmeg, one of cinnamon, one quart of ripe fresh 
huckleberries thickly dredged with flour. Stir the 
butter and sugar to a cream, add the beaten yolks, 
then the milk, flour and spice, the whites whipped 
stiff and the soda. At the last stir in the huckle- 
berries with a wooden spoon or paddle to prevent 
bruising them. Bake in a loaf in a moderate but 
steady oven until a straw comes out clean from the 
thickest part. 

110 


ICE CREAM CAKE. 


Five eggs, two cups sugar, one cup sweet milk, 
three and one-half cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder. 

Icing.—Save out whites of two eggs, beat to a 
froth. Two cups of sugar, one-half cup boiling water. 
Cook until ropy, add whites of eggs and beat until 
cool or it begins to thicken. Flavor to taste. Almond 
for cake and vanilla for icing is excellent. 


ICE CREAM CAKE. 


One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup corn- 
starch, two cups flour, one cup sweet milk or cream, 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder or one teaspoon- 
ful soda and two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, whites 
of eight eggs. Bake in layers. 

Icing for Cake—Four cups pulverized sugar, 
one and one-half cups water. Boil until thick, like 
candy. Drip the boiling sugar over the whites of 
four well beaten eggs, beating hard all the time, the 
longer the better. Have cake and icing cold. 

Very fine. Mrs. W. H. Tomlinson. 


JUMBLES. 


One egg, one cup of sugar, one cup of butter, 
flour enough to make a stiff dough; then roll them 
out in white sugar and bake. M. B. Packer. 


AUNTY TAYLOR'S JUMBLES. 


Three-quarters of a pound of butter, one pound 
sugar, four eggs, one pound flour, nutmeg and rose 
brandy to taste. Mrs. J. H. Michener. 

Ir 


JUMBLES. 


One pound butter, one pound sugar, three eggs, 
one-half cup sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda. Roll 
very thin in white sugar, dust cinnamon over top and 
bake. Mrs. Roberi Gover Allen. 


JUMBLES, 


One cup granulated sugar, one cup butter, two 
eggs, two cups flour, one small teaspoonful baking 
powder. Do not try to roll, but drop it into greased 
pans and pat out with your fingers. 

S. B. P., after S. B. 


JUMBLES. 


One cup sugar, one cup butter, one-half cup cream 
or new milk, two eggs, beaten separately and well, 
nutmeg to taste, one tablespoonful cooking sherry, 
flour to make as soft a dough as possible, two tea- 
spoonfuls baking powder. Rub butter and sugar to- 
gether to a cream and add yolks of eggs, cream or 
new milk, nutmeg and flour and whites of eggs last. 
Sift baking powder into about one quart of flour. 
After they are cut out sift sugar on them. 

Mrs. E. H. Rosenquest. 


JUMBLES. 


One-half pound butter, one pound sugar (beat 
to cream), two eggs (beat light), one-half pint sour 
cream, one teaspoonful soda (beat in the cream), five 
cups sifted flour, juice and rind of one lemon. Roll 
out thin and cut. Mrs. O. H. Paxson. 

12 


JUMBLES. 


A recipe for jumbles, which I brought from Min- 
nesota in 1861. M. B.W. 

One pound sugar, three-quarters of a pound but- 
ter, three eggs, very little nutmeg, flour sufficient to 
make a soft dough. Make them into rings and press 
flat on the palm of the hand until thin; dip in coarse 
granulated sugar. Bake in quick oven a light brown. 


PLAIN JUMBLES, 


One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar, quarter of a pound of butter, two eggs, 
half a cup of milk with half a teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in it, half a nutmeg, one teaspoonful of vanilla 
if liked; beat butter and sugar to a cream, add the 
eggs well whisked, then pour in the milk and soda, 
nutmeg and flour. Drop a teaspoonful of the batter 
which should be rather stiff about four inches apart 
as they spread whilst baking. 

1874. Mrs. Michener. 


LADY BALTIMORE CAKE. 


One cupful of butter, two cupfuls of sugar, three 
and one-half cupfuls of flour, one cupful of sweet 
milk, whites of six eggs, two level teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one teaspoonful of rosewater. Cream 
the butter, add the sugar gradually, beating con- 
tinuously; then the milk and the flavoring; next 
the flour, into which the baking powder has been 
sifted, and, lastly, the stiffly beaten whites of the 

113 


eggs, which should be folded lightly into the dough. 
Bake in three layer cake pans in an oven that is hotter 
than it would have to be for loaf cake. To make the 
filling, dissolve three cupfuls granulated sugar in one 
cupful of boiling water; cook it until it threads, then 
pour it over the stiffly beaten whites of three eggs, 
stirring constantly. To this icing add one cupful of 
chopped raisins, one cupful of chopped nut meats 
(pecans preferred) and five figs, cut into very thin 
strips. With this ice both the top and sides of the 
cake. 

Note.—This cake is considered one of the 
most delicious ever made by a colored “mammy.” It 
was invented by the cook of a prominent Charleston 
lady and has since been world-famous through being 
introduced in one of Owen Wister’s delightful ro- 
mances. Mrs. James P. E. Scott. 

Mrs. Margaret Hess, Wayne, Ra. 


‘LADY CAKE. 


One-half pound butter, one pound granulated 
sugar, one pound flour, whites of nine eggs, one-half 
pint milk, two large teaspoonfuls Royal baking pow- 
der. Flavor with bitter almonds. (“Mrs. A. R. L.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


LEMON SPONGE GINGERBREAD. 


One-half pound butter, one-half pound sugar, one 
pint molasses, one and one-half pounds flour, one-half 
glass dissolved pearl-ash, four eggs: beaten light, one 
glass milk, one-half ounce spice and ginger, juice and 
rind of one lemon. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 

114 


LEMON SPONGE CREAM LAYER CAKE. 


One pound pulverized sugar, one pound eggs, 
one-half pound sifted flour, juice and grated rind of 
one lemon. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
add the- sugar, beat well; then the well beaten yolks 
and ‘lemon; again beat; add the flour, which only stir 
in carefully. Do not beat after the flour is added. 
Bake in deep pans, or in layers if for cream sponge. 

Lemon Cream.—One cup granulated sugar, 
butter size of walnut, one tablespoonful cornstarch, 
yolks of two eggs, grated rind and juice of one lemon, 
one-half pint boiling water. Use an agate or porcelain 
kettle; put in the water, butter and cornstarch dis- 
solved with a little cold water, boil well until it thick- 
ens, then add the sugar, lemon and beaten yolks; 
let all boil until thick. When cold spread between 
layers of cake. . 

Orange Icing.—Grated rind of one orange and 
juice of two oranges; strain through cheese cloth, mix 
in (not stir) pulverized sugar till just thick enough 
to spread without running. Dip knife in cold water 
and spread icing on cake. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


LEPKAEHON. 


One pound pulverized sugar, one pound flour, 
four eggs, one-quarter pound almonds, two ounces 
citron, one-quarter teaspoonful cloves, heaped tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon, the peel of one lemon (grated). 
Rub the sugar and eggs together for one hour; when 
light, add all the other ingredients, the flour last. 
Grease pans and bake in a light oven. 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 
115 


LONG ISLAND CAKE. 


One pound flour, one pound sugar, one-half pound 
butter, four eggs, one-half pint sour cream or milk, 
one teaspoonful saleratus. Flavor with vanilla. Good. 
(Mrs. J. W.C.,” Schooley’s Mts.) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


MACAROONS. 


One pound of almond paste, one pound of pul- 
verized sugar, six eggs, whites only. Beat the whites 
very light, mix lightly with the sugar. Turn the 
paste into a wooden bowl, and chop fine with a 
chopping knife. Mix all together. Take thick butch- 
er’s paper, drop one teaspoonful of the mixture on 
the paper, put the paper into a baking pan first, then 
drop the mixture. Be careful not to have the oven 
too hot. Let the cakes remain on the paper until cold. 

1885. Mrs. Caldwell, Spring Lake. 


MRS. JONES’ MAPLE SUGAR CAKE. 


One cup granulated sugar, one-half cup butter, 
three-quarters of a cup milk, two cups sifted flour, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, three eggs. Cream 
butter and sugar together, add well beaten yolks of 
eggs, milk, stiffly beaten whites and, lastly, the flour, 
through which baking powder has been sifted. Bake 
in layer tins. 

Filling —One and one-half cups light brown 
sugar, one-half cup shaved maple sugar, one-half tea- 
spoonful baking powder, two tablespoonfuls thick 
cream, one-half cup butter. Boil all together until 

116 


thick, beat until smooth and spread between the layers 
and on top of cake. Halves of English walnuts laid 
on top layer is an improvement. 

Mrs. Francis Bacon Jones. 


MINNEHAHA CAKE. 


Two eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one 
cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, one 
and one-half cups flour. Flavor with vanilla. 

Filling—Boil one cup of granulated sugar in 
water enough to moisten it until it becomes ropy. 
Place it in a basin of cold water to cool. Beat the 
white of one egg to a stiff froth, pour it in the syrup 
and beat until cold and add one cup of stoned raisins. 


MORAVIAN CHRISTMAS CAKES. 


One pint of molasses, one-half pound butter and 
lard mixed, two pounds of flour, one-half pound sugar, 
one-half ounce cloves, one-half ounce cinndmon, one- 
half ounce ginger. 

Christmas Cakes (White).—One pound of but- 
ter, five eggs, one pound of sugar, rosewater to the 
taste, flour enough to stiffen so that you can roll out. 

M. J. C. Whitaker. 


MOLASSES CAKE. 


Two eggs (whites and yolks), one cup New 
Orleans molasses, one cup brown sugar, one table- 
spoonful ground ginger, one small teaspoonful ground 

117 


cinnamon, one-quarter pound butter, one large cup 
buttermilk. Put in sugar, molasses, butter, cinnamon 
and ginger. Set in pot of boiling water until melted, 
then beat a while; take off and add buttermilk, eggs, 
one teaspoonful baking soda; then add flour, not too 
stiff. 


MORAVIAN SUGAR CAKE, 


Two cups of bread-rising, one pint of milk, salt 
to taste, one cup of butter, one cup of sugar. Work 
thoroughly until as stiff as bread dough and until it 
will not adhere to the fingers. Set in a warm place, 
and when light spread it about an inch thick on tins 
and let rise again. When very light pinch holes at 
equal distances, cover with moist brown sugar and 
small pieces of butter. Sprinkle with cinnamon and 
bake in a rather quick oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Mrs. M. J. C. Whitaker. 


MORAVIAN SUGAR CAKE, 


One pint yeast, one pint sweet milk (lukewarm), 
one cup butter and lard mixed, one, cup sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful salt. In the evening mix these well 
together, adding flour until, in kneading, the sponge 
no longer adheres to the hand. The next morning 
knead and spread dough one-half inch thick on cake 
tins; let it rise until light, spread with butter, make 
holes here and there and fill with lumps of butter. 
Strew the whole richly with brown sugar and bake. 
After removing from the oven dress with nutmeg and 
cinnamon. Elizabeth Comfort Gerhart. 

118 


MOUNTAIN CAKE. 


Three cups sugar, one cup of butter; cream but- 
ter and sugar together; one cup of sweet milk, one 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in the milk, whites of ten eggs beaten 
very light, three and one-half cups of flour. Flavor 
with lemon, 

Icing.—Whites of three eggs and one pound 
of pulverized sugar. Flavor with vanilla. 


NEW ORLEANS CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups 
of flour, five eggs. 

Filling—One can of condensed milk, one cup 
of granulated sugar, three-quarters of a cake of 
Baker’s unsweetened chocolate, butter the size of an 
egg, large tablespoonful of vanilla, half a cup of boil- 
ing water. 

To Make Cake.—Mix butter and sugar until 
creamy, then add yolks of eggs, then the milk, half 
the flour (sifted), then half of the whites beaten very 
light, then the other half of flour and the rest of the 
whites ; last, two spoons of baking powder. 

'To Make Filling—Put chocolate in steam 
boiler, when melted add butter and sugar; stir briskly 
a few seconds, then add milk; stir until thick, then 
add water to thin out, set aside to cool; when ready to 
use add vanilla. Always make filling first, before mak- 
ing the cake. 

1905. Mrs. Kells, New Orleans. 

NUT CAKES. 

Three-quarters of a pound butter, one pound pul- 

verized sugar, six eggs, one pound flour, one pint 
119 


hickory nut kernels rolled very fine, one teaspoonful 
bicarbonate of soda, one teaspoonful cream ot tartar. 
Keep dough in cold place. Roll very thin. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


NUT WAFERS. 


Two eggs, one cup brown sugar, three tablespoon- 
fuls flour, one cup chopped pecan nuts, a pinch of salt. 
Bake in lady-finger pans. Dainty and delicious. 

Mrs. McCown. 


NUT WAFERS. 


Two eggs, one cup of brown sugar, three rounded 
tablespoonfuls flour, one pinch of salt, one cup finely 
chopped pecans. Pack in lady-finger pans or drop 
very thin. Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


OATMEAL COOKIES. 


Two cups sugar, one cup butter and lard mixed, 
one-half cup nuts (English or black walnuts), two 
cups oatmeal, four tablespoonfuls sour cream, two- 
thirds of a teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful salt, flour to make stiff 
dough. After creaming butter, add sugar, then well 
beaten yolks of eggs, sour cream, chopped nuts, oat- 
meal and salt; then put in the soda, the stiffly beaten 
whites, and, lastly, the flour. After mixing thoroughly 
it is better to stand away on ice to chill. Work dough 
into little flat cakes with floured hands; drop in but- 
tered tins. Use moderate oven. 

Recipe furnished by a notable housewife in Colo- 
rado. These are very delicious. B. McGeorge. 

120 


ORANGE CAKE, 


One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one-half cup milk, two cups flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, four eggs beaten separately and grated 
rind of one orange. 

Filling—White of one egg, pulverized sugar 
and juice of one orange. 


ORANGE SPONGE CAKE. 


Four eggs, two cups of sugar, two cups of flour, 
one teaspoonful baking powder. Beat the whites very 
stiff and light, then add the sugar, then the well 
beaten yolks, lastly the flour. Flavor with orange 
juice. Bake in layer tins. Make soft frosting flav- 
ored with orange to put between layers, Use the 
whites of two eggs, a little of the rind grated and the 
juice of an orange, just enough powdered white sugar 
to make a soft frosting. A few drops of lemon juice 
is an improvement, as the orange juice is so sweet. 
This makes quite a large cake baked in layers. 

Miss H. E. Thomas, of Chicago. 


PEANUT COOKIES. 


Two tablespoonfuls of butter, two tablespoonfuls 
of milk, one teaspoonful of baking powder, one-quar- 
ter cup sugar, one egg, one-quarter teaspoonful of 
salt, one-half cup flour, one-half cup chopped peanuts, 
one-half teaspoonful vanilla. Drop from a teaspoon 
on unbuttered sheets one inch apart. Bake twelve or 
fifteen minutes in a slow oven. . 

Mrs. J. H. Michener, 
121 


PEANUT WAFERS. 


One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, three- 
quarters of a cup of milk, one and one-quarter cups 
of flour (possibly more), two quarts of finely chopped 
peanuts. Spread on straight pans or sheets (very 
thin) and bake in very hot oven. Cut in squares and 
slide off quickly. Mrs. J. Lewis Crozer. 


PECULIAR CAKE. 

One-half pound butter, one pound sugar (A), 
one pound flour, six eggs, two good teaspoonfuls 
Royal baking powder, one teacupful sweet milk. 
Flavor with nutmeg or vanilla. Cream the butter and 
sugar, add the beaten yolks, then a little milk and 
flour alternately until all are used, then the beaten 
whites. Sift the baking powder through the flour. 
Bake in a slow oven. (“E. R. S.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


PFEFFERNUSSE. 
(German Christmas Cakes.) 

One pound sugar, two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 
two nutmegs, four eggs, one pound flour, a little 
pepper. Beat the sugar with the yolks of the eggs 
for a quarter of an hour; put in the spices and flour, 
mold into little round cakes about the size of a soda 
biscuit. Bake slowly. on iron sheets. Frost with 
plain icing. Mrs. E, K. Schmidt, 


PICCOLOMINI CAKE. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, five eggs 
beaten very light, four cups of flour, one cup of sweet 
milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda. Mrs. Robert Gover Allen. 

122 


PLUNKETS. 


Twelve eggs, one pound butter, one pound sugar, 
one-half pound flour, one-half pound corn starch, three 
teaspoonfuls baking powder. Bake in individual pans. 
(“Mrs. Lauer.”) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


PRESIDENT CAKE. 


Note.—The following recipe for cake is one 
which was found among Martha Washington’s effects 
and is said to be one which was extremely popular 
with the first President and his guests. 

To make it one must take ten eggs, dividing the 
whites from the yolks, and beat them both to a froth. 
Work a pound of butter to a cream; mix the whites 
into it, a spoonful at a time, then a pound of powdered 
sugar in the same manner. Follow this with the 
yolks of the eggs, one and one-quarter pounds of 
flour, the same quantity of mixed fruit, a teaspoonful 
of mace, half a nutmeg, grated, a gill of wine and 
some good brandy. Mrs. James P. E. Scott. 


QUICK CAKE. 


One-third cup soft butter, one and one-third cups 
brown sugar, one-half cup milk, one and one-third 
cups flour, two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of baking 
powder, one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon, one-half 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, one cup of raisins, 
stoned and chopped. Put ingredients in a bowl and 
beat all together for three minutes. If added sep- 
arately the cake will not be a success. Bake thirty- 
five or forty minutes. Etta Nowell. 

123 


RICE CAKE, 


Five whole eggs, one-half pound butter, one-half 
pound granulated sugar, one pound rice flour, a little 
nutmeg and vanilla. Mix all together. Spread on 
tins. Bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Charles A. Potter. 


SAN TARTS—CHRISTMAS CAKES. 


One pound butter, two pounds granulated sugar, 
two pounds flour. Mix with the hands, then add three 
eggs well beaten; work into a lump and stand aside 
to freeze. Next morning roll out very thin and 
moisten tops with white of one egg, well beaten, and 
sprinkle with granulated sugar; then place on top 
three parts of a peanut or an althond. 

This recipe will make about two hundred and 
twenty-five tarts and has been in use in one family 
for seventy-five years. They are excellent. 

Mrs. James P. E. Scott. 


SCRIPTURE CAKE. 


One cup of butter (Judges 5:25), three and one- 
half cups flour (I Kings 4:22), three cups of sugar 
(Jeremiah 6:20), two cups of raisins (I Samuel 
30:12), two cups of figs (I Samuel 30:12), one cup 
of water (Genesis 24:17), one cup of almonds 
(Genesis 43:11), six eggs (Isaiah 10:14), a little 
salt (Leviticus 2:13), one tablespoonful honey (Ex- 
odus 16:31), sweet spices to taste (I Kings 10:10). 

Follow Solomon’s advice for making good boys, 
and you will have a good cake. 

Mary B. Gamble. 
124 


SILVER CAKE AND GOLD CAKE. 


One-half pound butter, one pound sugar, whites 
of eight eggs, one cup thick milk, one teaspoonful bi- 
carbonate of soda, one teaspoonful cream of tartar, 
one small cup peach kernels. Bake one hour and 
a quarter. 

Gold Cake.—One-half cup butter, two cups 
sugar, one cup milk, three and one-half cups flour, 
yolks of eight eggs, one-half teaspoonful bi-carbonate 
of soda, one teaspoonful cream of tartar. (“Mrs. 
W. B. Webb.”) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


S. M. CAKE, 


« 

One pound flour, one pound sugar, three-quar- 
ters of a pound butter, five eggs, one pound currants 
or raisins, one-half pound citron, one-half teacupful 
milk, Bake one and a half hours. 

Mrs. A. Hennen Morris, “Avalon,” New York. 


SNIPPY DOODLE CAKE. 


One cup granulated sugar, one cup flour, one- 
half cup milk, two eggs beaten light, one tablespoon- 
ful butter, one tablespoonful cinnamon, one and one- 
half teaspoonfuls baking powder. Cream butter and 
sugar, add eggs, beaten all together and light; then 
the flour and milk, stirring briskly. Mix cinnamon 
and baking powder together with the flour. Bake in 
a sheet and sprinkle granulated sugar on top when 
nearly done. 

Elizabeth Lohman, Gibraltar Island, Ohio. 
125 


SOUR CREAM SPICE CAKE. 


One-half cup butter, two cups brown sugar, one 
cup sour cream, two cups flour, three eggs, two level 
teaspoonfuls cloves, two level teaspoonfuls allspice, 
two level teaspoonfuls cinnamon, one-half level tea- 
spoonful nutmeg, one-quarter level teaspoonful gin- 
ger, one-half level teaspoonful soda. Proceed as in 
making cup cake, sifting soda and spices with the 
flour. Mrs. Geo. Kelly. 


SPICE CAKE. 


One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, four eggs, 
three cups of flour, one cup of buttermilk with one 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it, ‘one cup of raisins 
chopped a little, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one- 
quarter of a teaspoonful each of cloves and mace, half 
a teaspoonful of allspice, one grated nutmeg. 

1784. Grandmother K. 


SPICE CAKE. 


One cup of sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, yolks 
of five eggs, one cup of New Orleans molasses, one 
cup of sour cream, three cups of sifted flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon, one and one-half teaspoonfuls 
of allspice, one teaspoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful 
cloves, two teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate soda, whites 
of three eggs, well beaten. If sour cream is not avail- 
able milk may be used, in which case two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder should take the place of the soda. 

126 


The sour cream is preferable as it makes the cake soft 
and rich. Mix the ingredients in the order given, 
beating well until the soda is put in, after which the 
batter should be stirred just enough to mix in the 
soda and well beaten whites of eggs. Bake in layer 
tins. 

Dressing.—Boil two cups of granulated sugar 
and one cup of water—without stirring—until they 
form a thick syrup. Pour gradually on the well 
beaten whites of two eggs, beating all the time, until 
it is cool. If the dressing becomes too stiff a little 
cold water may be added. Spread on the layers of 
the cake. Miss Alice B. Barr. 


SPONGE CAKE. 


Ten eggs, their weight in sugar, and half the 
weight in flour. Juice and grated rind of one lemon. 
Beat the yolks very light, add sugar, beating all the 
time. Have the whites beaten to a stiff froth, then 
add alternately the whites and flour, which has been 
sifted twice, reserving a portion of the whites to stir in 
at the last. After you begin to add the whites, stir 
the cake very lightly. Do not beat. 

Mrs. J. M. Jenkins. 


SPRINGERLAE. 


One pound white sugar, one pound of flour, four 
eggs, the rind of one lemon, grated. Beat sugar and 
eggs one hour, Then add flour. Lay cakes in a dry 
place over night and bake following day in a light 
oven. Dutch again, but fine. . 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 
127 


STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 


One-half pint flour, one teaspoonful cream of tar- 
tar sifted into flour, one tablespoonful of butter rubbed 
into the flour, a little salt, one pint cold milk, one-half 
teaspoonful soda dissolved in the milk. Divide the 
dough and roll into two round cakes. When baked, 
butter and add the fruit between and on top. 


SUGAR CAKES. 


One cup butter, two cups granulated sugar, four 
eggs, one-half cup milk, four teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder and enough flour to make a soft dough to roll 
out. Cream the sugar and butter and add milk; beat 
eggs separately, adding yolks to above. Mix baking 
powder to flour and add flour and whites alternately. 

Mrs. Williams. 


SUGAR COOKIES. 


One cup butter, one cup sweet milk, two cups 
sugar, two eggs, six cups flour, one nutmeg, one tea- 
spoonful saleratus, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar. 
Roll thin and bake quickly. Mrs. S. R. Tomkins. 


SUGAR COOKIES. 


Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two eggs, whites 
and yolks beaten separately, flour to make stiff dough, 
one teaspoonful baking powder, one teaspoonful salt, 
one teaspoonful lemon or any desired flavoring. 
Cream butter, beat sugar well into it. Add well 
beaten yolks of the eggs, then the whites, then sift in 

. 128 


the flour through which the baking powder has been 
sifted. Add salt and flavoring last of all. Roll out 
very flat, cut out with round or heart-shaped cutter, 
sprinkle with sugar, cinnamon and chopped nuts and 
place in floured pans. Cook in moderate oven. 

B. McGeorge. 


TAYLOR CAKE. 


One pint New Orleans molasses, one-half pound 
butter, three eggs, one-half pint milk, one-half pound 
brown sugar, two pounds flour, one tablespoonful 
bicarb. soda, one dessertspoonful cinnamon, ginger 
and spice. Mix butter, sugar and eggs well together, 
add molasses, milk, spice and flour. Drop on tins. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


A THANKSGIVING CAKE. 


One pound of butter, one pint of milk, two and 
one-half pounds of flour, one cupful of yeast, two eggs, 
one and one-half pounds of sugar, one-half pound of 
raisins, one-half pound of currants, one-quarter pound 
of citron, one whole nutmeg, grated, one tablespoon- 
ful of mace, one gill of fine brandy. The flour, the 
milk and half the butter are mixed with the yeast and 
set to rise over night. The next morning all the other 
ingredients, with the exception of the fruit, are added, 
and the dough is left to rise for another three hours. 
It is then lifted into the cake pans with the aid of a 
skimmer, the fruit, already thoroughly mixed, being 
added as each skimmerful is placed in the buttered 
pans. Set it aside for fully half an hour that it may 

129 


rise once more, and then bake it in a slow but steady 
oven. Frost with a boiled white icing. 

This recipe comes from a very old lady of Provi- 
dence, R. I., in whose family it has been used for over 
one hundred and fifty years. 

Mrs. E. K. Schmidt. 


FINE WAFER JUMBLES. 


One pound pulverized sugar, one pound butter, 
one pound two ounces flour, five eggs; beat well; 
small teaspoonful batter dropped and spread round on 
buttered sheet irons, Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


WALNUT CAKE. 


One-half pound sugar, whites of three eggs, 
yolks of two eggs, one-quarter pound butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, one-half pound flour, one and one-half 
pints walnuts floured, one teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda. Cream sugar ahd 
butter, add yolks and milk, then soda and cream of 
tartar, flour and nuts, and last the well beaten whites. 

Mrs. O. H. Paxson. 


WASHINGTON CAKE. 

Take three-quarters of a pound of butter, one 
pound of granulated sugar, cream them well together, 
add six well beaten eggs and one pound of sifted flour, 
one small nutmeg, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, 
one wineglassful of sherry, one wineglassful of brandy 
or whiskey, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a cup 
of sweet milk. Then take three pounds of seeded 
raisins, mix with extra flour, stir into the batter and 
bake at once. Iced or not, as you wish. 

Katharine Spencer. 
130 


WHITE CAKE. 


One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one and one- 
half cups flour, one-half cup milk, three eggs (whites 
only), one teaspoonful baking powder, one teaspoon- 
ful vanilla. Beat butter to a cream, add sugar grad- 
ually, then milk, baking powder and vanilla, then flour, 
and last add the stiff beaten whites. (From a French 
Chef.) Contributed by Mrs. Valentine Morris. 


WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 


One cup butter, two cups sugar, one scant cup 
milk, whites of five eggs, one grated cocoanut, one 
pound almonds, blanched and chopped fine, one pound 
citron cut very thin, three and one-half cups of flour, 
three teaspoonfuls baking powder. Add fruit last 
thing. Josephine E. Buckman. 


WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 


One pound of sugar, whites of sixteen eggs, three- 
fourths of a pound of butter, two cocoanuts grated, 
one-half pound almonds sliced thin, two pounds citron 
sliced thin, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, flour 
enough to make stiff batter. 

Mrs. M. J. C. Whitaker. 


WHITE LAYER CAKE. 


One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one and 
* one-half cups of flour, whites of four eggs, two scant 
131 


teaspoonfuls baking powder, one-half cup of milk, 
flavor to taste. 

Icing—Boiled Icing.—Two cups of sugar, one- 
half cup of water, boil without stirring until it ropes. 
Beat whites of two eggs light, pour syrup over the 
whites, stirring all the time till most cool. When 
“just right” this is fine. Mrs. O. T. Haines. 


WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 


One cup butter, three cups sugar, one-half cup 
sweet milk, whites of ten eggs, two teaspoonfuls 
cream of tartar, one teaspoonful soda, three and one- 
half cups of flour. Cream butter and sugar well, add 
cream of tartar and soda to the milk, stir all together, 
add whites of eggs, well beaten, and flour last. Flavor 
with vanilla and bake in three jelly cake tins. Fill 
and ice with the following: Beat the whites of three 
eggs stiff and add one pound of pulverized sugar and 
grated cocoanut for flavor. Mrs. O. H. Paxson. 


WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 


Three-fourths of a cup of butter, two cups of 
sugar, yolks of seven eggs, one egg, both yolk and 
white, three-fourths of a cup of milk, three cups of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls of yeast powder. Bake in 
layers, 

Icing.—Whites of seven eggs, one pound of 
pulverized sugar, two small or one large cocoanut 
grated. Mrs. M. J. C. Whitaker. 

132 


WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 


Whites of four eggs, beaten lightly, one-half cup 
pulverized sugar, one-half cup sifted flour, with one- 
half teaspoonful cream of tartar added to the flour; 
stir in lightly ; no soda; flavor to taste. Bake twenty 
minutes. If oven too hot, cover with paper. (“Call.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


“YORK” NUT KISSES. 


Place in large bowl the whites of five eggs, one 
pound pulverized sugar, two teaspoonfuls of lemon 
juice. Beat all together until stiff enough to stand 
alone, then add one pint of hickory nut kernels. Stir 
them through the mixture. Drop from a teaspoon on 
buttered tins and bake slowly in a cool oven. 
(“Miss F.”) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


“YORK” SHELLBARK CAKE. 


One-half pound butter, one and one-quarter 
pounds flour, one and one-quarter pounds sugar, six 
eggs, one-half cup sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls Royal 
baking powder, one pound seeded raisins, one pint 
kernels, one wineglassful brandy. (“Miss F. H.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


BOILED FROSTING. 


One cup granulated sugar, five teaspoonfuls of 
water. Boil until it threads from the spoon, then pour 
over the beaten white of an egg. 

Mrs. Charles S. Smith, Philadelphia. 


133 


CARAMEL FILLING FOR CAKE. 


Two cups brown sugar, one cup of cream. Cook 
until it candies, then add a teaspoonful of butter. 
Flavor with vanilla. Any kind of layer cake can be 
used, but delicate cake is a good one, viz.: three eggs, 
half cup butter, one cup sugar, one pint flour, half cup 
sweet milk, one teaspoonful baking powder. 

Miss Thomas, Chicago, Ill. 


CHOCOLATE ICING FOR CAKE. 


One egg, one and one-half cups granulated sugar, 
two ounces chocolate, two tablespoonfuls milk, flavor 
with vanilla, butter size of walnut, put on stove, cook 
until it thickens, remove and keep warm until ready 
to ice cake. 


FROSTING. 
Two cups of sugar, one cup of water, half a tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar. Cook until it ropes. © 


When cool add the whites of two well beaten eggs, 
with cream of tartar. 


LEMON FILLING FOR SPONGE CAKE. 
One lemon, one cup sugar, one teaspoonful of 


butter, one-half teaspoonful of flour,,one egg. Boil 
all together. Good and tried. 


134 


XII. PASTRY. 


CHEESE CAKE. 


Two cakes of cottage cheese, three eggs, one 
pint milk, small piece of butter rubbed in the cheese, 
one-half teaspoonful of cinnamon, pinch of salt. 
Sweeten according to taste. Pour into an oblong pan 
lined with good pie crust. Grate nutmeg over the top 
and bake. More eggs and less milk make the cheese 
cake richer. M. B. Packer. 


COCOANUT PIE. 


Grate a fresh cocoanut and save the milk. Melt 

one-quarter of a pound of butter, three-quarters of 

. a pound of granulated sugar. Then add the cocoanut 

and the milk of cocoanut. After mixing well, stir in 

seven well beaten eggs and one pint of cream. Bake 
without top crust. Mrs, R. S. Spencer. 


CREAM PIES. 


Three eggs, one cup sugar, one large cup flour 
before sifting, two tablespoons sweet rich milk, butter 
size of an egg, one teaspoon baking powder. Mix like 
cake, Bake in thin tins in rather slow oven. 


135 


Custard Filling —Two eggs, one cup sugar, one 
pint rich milk. Let milk come to boiling point. Pour 
it on the beaten eggs and sugar, stirring all the time. 
Put back and thicken with two tablespoons cornstarch 
in a little milk. Flavor with vanilla. Let pies cool. 
Split in half and spread custard between. 

Mrs. Robert Gover Allen, Darlington, Md. 


CUSTARD PIE. 


Beat the yolks of three eggs to a cream. Stir 
thoroughly a tablespoonful of sifted flour in three 
tablespoonfuls of sugar. This separates the particles 
of flour so that there will be no lumps. Then add to 
it the beaten yolks. Put in a pinch of salt, one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla and a little grated nutmeg; then 
the well beaten whites of the eggs, and lastly a pint 
of scalded milk (not boiled) which has been cooled. 
Mix this in by degrees and turn all into a deep pie 
pan, lined with a good paste, and baked from twenty- 
five to thirty minutes. The secret in custard pies is 
the addition of this little bit of flour. Not that it 
thickens it any—but prevents the custard from break- 
ing (or going to whey) and gives a smooth appearance 
when cut. (C. H. H.) 

Also Mrs, E. S. Pugh. 


FLORIDA LEMON PIE. 
Grate one lemon and pour a cup of boiling water 


on it. Strain and set on stove with two tablespoons 
136 


cornstarch and stir until thick. Take off stove and add 
one cup of sugar. While cooling beat yolks of two 
eggs and stir in with piece of butter size of a hickory- 
nut: Bake in pastry shell. Beat whites, add one 
tablespoon of sugar and put over top and lightly 
brown in cool oven. 


LEMON CHEESE CAKE, 


To one-quarter pound butter add one pound 
loaf sugar, six eggs, leaving out the whites of two, 
the grated rind and juice of two large lemons. Put 
together over a slow fire and stir gently until as thick 
as cream. Pour into jars and it is ready to use for 
tarts. 

A delicious recipe given me by a lady from Roch- 
dale, England. 

Mrs. J. H. Handley, 
Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, N.Y. 


HATTIE’S LEMON CUSTARD. 


Two lemons. Grate the rind of less than one 
lemon. Squeeze the juice of the two lemons into a 
bowl, add the rind and add enough cold water to 
measure two cups full, butter size of an egg, two table- 
spoonfuls flour, three eggs, sugar to taste. Mix butter 
and sugar together. then beaten eggs and flour, then 
the rind of lemon, the two cupfuls of water and juice. 
This will make two pies. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 
137 


LEMON MERINGUE. 


Pastry.—Two cooking tablespoonfuls of flour, 
pinch of salt, one tablespoonful of lard. Moisten with 
ice water. 

Filling —Yolks of three eggs, one cup of sugar, 
butter size of walnut, melted; one level tablespoonful 
flour, one and one-half cups boiling water, juice and 
rind of one lemon. Put all on fire and boil until it 
thickens slightly. Then fill pastry. 

Icing—Take whites of eggs and beat until 
light and add enough sugar to sweeten, also a little 
lemon juice. Put in hot oven to brown. 

Mrs. E, Schlenk. 


LEMON MERINGUE PIE. 


Rind and ‘juice of one lemon, one cup of sugar, 
yolks of two eggs, one tablespoonful of cornstarch, 
one cup of hot water. Mix all together and let come 
toa boil. Bake crust first and pour ingredients into it. 

Icing for pie—Take whites of the eggs, beat 
until stiff; and two small tablespoonfuls of pulverized 
sugar. Spread on the top and set in oven to brown 
slightly. (C. H. H.) Also Mrs. E, S. Pugh. 


LEMON PIE. 


Three eggs (use whites for top), one cup sugar, 
two and one-half cups water, two lemons and rind 
of one, two tablespoonfuls cornstarch. Beat yolks of 
eggs, add sugar, then water. Put on to boil. When 

138 


almost boiling add lemon juice mixed with little water. 

Stir for few minutes, then add cornstarch which has 

been dissolved in water, and boil till whole thickens. 
Mrs. Valentine Morris. 


LEMON PIE. 


One lemon, grated rind and juice, two cups sugar, 
two cups hot water, four tablespoonfuls of flour, yolks 
of four eggs, butter size of egg, melted. Bake in pie 
crust and when done beat the whites to a stiff froth 
and mix with four tablespoonfuls of sugar. Spread 
over the tops and return to the oven until browned 
slightly. This quantity will make two pies. 

Mrs. George Kelly. 


LEMON PIE. 


The juice of one lemon, one cup of sugar, three 
eggs, yolks, one cup of sweet milk, two tablespoonfuls 
of cornstarch. Cut the rind of the lemon in half 
tumbler of cold water and add to the other ingredients. 
The above quantities are for one pie. When baked, 
beat the whites of eggs with one tablespoonful of white 
sugar, spread on top of pie and brown in oven. 

Mrs. Robert Gover Allen, Darlington, Md. 


LINDEN HALL SEMINARY TAFFY PIES. 


Line pie dish with pie crust. Take one cup brown 
sugar, one tablespoon flour, and butter the size of a 
walnut. Mix flour and sugar and lay butter on top. 

Elizabeth Comfort Gerhart. 
139 


MARYLAND LEMON PIES. 


Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup 
milk, one-half cup grated cracker, four eggs, twa 
lemons, juice and grated rind. Beat the eggs separately 
and put a meringue on top if desired. This makes two 
good-sized pies. Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


SUPERFINE MINCE MEAT. 


Four pounds chopped beef, four pounds chopped 
suet, six pounds chopped apples, four pounds currants, 
four pounds raisins, four pounds sugar, one pound 
citron, grated nutmeg, cinnamon to taste. Wet well 
with brandy and sherry wine. Put in Mason jars, it 
will keep for four or five months. Before baking add 
grated rind of lemon. (Mrs. A, Russel.) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


MINCE MEAT. 


Five pounds of beef or tongue, four pounds of 
raisins, four pounds of currants, three pounds of suet, 
quarter of a peck of apples, four pounds of brown 
sugar, one pound of citron, four grated nutmegs, three 
lemons, one- quart of Madeira wine or sherry, one 
pint of brandy. 

1874. Mrs. Noblit. 


MINCE MEAT. 
Three pounds of well boiled beef minced, one 


pound suet, seven pounds chopped apples, two pounds 
140 


Taisins, two pounds currants, one pound citron, one 
quart brandy, one quart whiskey, four lemons, four 
grated nutmegs, cloves, allspice, cinnamon and salt to 
taste, one-half gallon cider, four pounds brown sugar. 


MINCE PIE. 


Mince Meat.—Two pounds lean meat, one 
pound suet. Add a little salt. Boil and let stand 
over night. Chop meat and suet fine; then add two 
pounds seedless raisins, two pounds currants, one-half 
peck apples, greenings preferred; one-half pound 
citron, the inside of two lemons, two pounds soft 
white sugar, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one-half tea- 
spoonful cloves, one-half teaspoonful allspice, one 
nutmeg. Moisten all with cider and add brandy when 
you make your pies. 

Pastry.—Pastry flour, four cups (enough for 
two pies), pinch of salt, one cup of lard. Wet with ice 
water and place in refrigerator to cool before filling. 

This recipe has been used in my family for over 
fifty years with great success. 

Mrs. E. Moore. 


MOLASSES LEMON PIE. 


One large juicy lemon, one cup seeded raisins, one 
cup molasses, one-half cup cold water. Grate the rind 
of the lemon and cut into very fine slices. Line in a 
pie-dish with crust. Distribute one-half‘ the lemon 
and rind, half the raisins, half of the molasses, and 
half the water in the crust. Sprinkle lightly with flour. 

141 


Cover with a very thin wafer crust. Use the remainder 
of the ingredients as before. Mboisten the edge to 
prevent boiling over and cover with upper crust. 
Some, to retain the juice, use a strip of new muslin 
around edge, which is easily removed after baking. 
(Miss Onderdonk.) Mrs, J. H. Michener. 


PUMPKIN PIE. 


Two cups of boiled pumpkin, three-quarters of a 
cup of sugar, three eggs, two spoonfuls of molasses, 
one spoonful of melted butter, two cups of milk, cin- 
namon and nutmeg to taste. Beat the whites of the 
eggs and put them in last. This makes the pies 
brown on top. Mrs. John M. Butler. 


PUMPKIN PIES. 


“Tf I can’t get puddjng I will take pie” (an old 
proverb). 

Select the “Boston Narrow Squash” or “Sweet 
Potato Pumpkin.” Cut a medium sized pumpkin 
into squares (about five quarts). Boil until soft and 
strain through a sieve. Add while hot one pound 
sugar, one-half pound butter. When cooler add five 
eggs, three pints of milk and five tablespoonfuls of 
flour, cinnamon to taste. Line pie plates with paste. 
Fill pretty full and bake. Mary Bunting Wolff. 


PUMPKIN PIE. 


One quart prepared pumpkin strained quite thick, 
one cup cream, four eggs beaten up with enough sugar 
142 


to sweeten, one-half cup of molasses, one teaspoonful 
of ginger, one-half teaspoonful of cloves, two table- 
spoonfuls melted butter, one teaspoonful of salt, salt- 
spoon of cinnamon. Be sure to boil pumpkin with 
teaspoonful of salt. Mrs. E. H. Rosenquest. 


RAISIN PIE. 


Four cooking tablespoonfuls of flour, two table- 
spoonfuls of lard, pinch of salt. Moisten with ice 
water. One pound seedless raisins. Wash and cover 
with water and boil slowly until tender and sweeten 
to taste. Thicken with two tablespoonfuls of flour. 

Mrs. E. Schlenk. 


TEMPERANCE MINCE MEAT. 


Three pounds lean beef, the tender part of round, 
three pounds of apples chopped fine, one-half pound of 
suet, two pounds of raisins, two pounds of sugar, ‘two 
quarts of cider, one-half dozen of lemons, grate first 
the rind, then cut the lemons and grate the inside ; one 
and one-half nutmegs, one tablespoonful of ginger, 
two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of 
salt. Mrs. A. M. Pennypacker. 


143 


XIII. PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 


A BANANA DESSERT. 


One-half pound macaroons, twelve bananas 
sugared, one quart whipped cream. Slice the bananas, 
put a layer of bananas, then a layer of macaroons 
dipped in sherry and sprinkled well with powdered 
sugar, a layer of whipped cream. Repeat this. This 
makes a very rich dessert. Miss Ash. 


AMERICAN CREAM. 


Dissolve one-half box of Cox’s gelatine in small 
quantity of cold water. Heat one quart milk, put in 
gelatine, yolks of four eggs beaten light and three 
tablespoonfuls sugar. Let come to a boil, then have 
ready the whites of the eggs beaten light, with a little 
sugar, and stir in after removing from the fire. Flavor 
with one tablespoonful vanilla. Pour in mold and 
put in cool place until next day. Eat with cream. 

E. P.’80. 


APPLE DUMPLING. 


Four large Irish potatoes boiled and nicely mashed. 
While hot add two tablespoonfuls of butter, a little salt 
and a teacup of cold water. Knead in one pint of flour, 
beat with a rolling pin till tender, sprinkle on a little 
flour if necessary, scald your cloth and flour it, lay it on 

144 


a bowl; roll out your pastry. Slice fourteen apples and 
one lemon, sprinkle with a little cinnamon, or cloves if 
you like, and a little sugar. Roll the apples in the 
pastry, wrap in the cloth, boil at least two hours and 
serve with sauce. (From a famous Virginia house- 
keeper.) Mrs. J. Thompson Cole. 


APPLE GINGER. 


Four pounds chopped apples very fine, four pounds 
sugar, four small lemons, one ounce white ginger root, 
one pint water. When boiling put in apples, boil 
slowly about an hour, then drop in lemons sliced after 
grating off the rind. Cook another hour, then stir in 
grated rinds just before taking off the fire. 

. Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


APPLE MERINGUE. 


Take a pudding dish, one that you use for baking 
and fill it three-quarters full of apple sauce, sweetened 
and flavored with nutmeg. Then cover the top with 
lady fingers. Beat the white of an egg with some 
pulverized sugar tolerably stiff and put it in between 
the Jady fingers and around their edges. Brown 
slightly in the oven to harden the icing. Let cool and 
serve with-cream. (In 1867.) 

Mrs. Charles S. Smith, Philadelphia. 


BAKED RICE. 


One teacup of boiled rice, place in a baking dish, 
mix with lump of butter size of an egg, and a teacup- 
ful of milk or enough to make dish conveniently full. 
Bake until nicely browned. 

145 


BALLOONS. 


One pint of flour, one quart of milk, six eggs, a 
little salt. Whites and yolks beaten separately. Bake 
twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

November, 1886. Mrs. H. E. Cooke, 

Manchester, N. H. 


BLANC MANGE. 


Take a heaping tablespoonful of Irish moss, wash 
in several waters, then cover well with water, and boil 
till very soft. Strain through a bag or fine sieve, get 
all out of it possible. Add one pint of milk, boil for 
two minutes, flavor with wine and vanilla, sugar to 
taste, turn into molds and serve with cream. A very 
old recipe. M.S.C. 


CARAMEL CUSTARD. 


Four eggs, one quart milk, bake in a bowl or cups, 
one-half cupful of sugar browned and water to make 
asyrup. Pour over the custard when served. 

Mrs. D. Wistar. 


' CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 


Whites of two eggs, one pint cream, one-half cup- 
ful sugar, one-half teaspoonful vanilla. Beat until it 
thickens and serve on stale sponge cake. 

J.C. Chace, R. I. 
146 


CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 


One pint thick sweet cream, whites of three eggs, 
one-half box Cox’s gelatine, one tablespoonful vanilla 
extract, two tablespoonfuls wine, one-quarter pound 
sugar. Beat the cream to a froth, also the eggs. Dis- 
solve the gelatine in only as much water as ‘is neces- 
sary, have it very smooth before using it. Sweeten the 
beaten cream, add the eggs, gelatine and flavoring. 
Beat all together for a few minutes. Line a deep dish 
with cake or.macaroons, pour in the mixture, let it 
stand for an hour to stiffen and get cold. Turn it out 
before sending to table. (Mrs. A. R. Little.) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 


Two tablespoonfuls gelatine, soak in two cupfuls 
cold milk for ten minutes, beat until dissolved, strain, 
add six tablespoonfuls pulverized sugar, and, when 
cool, six tablespoonfuls sherry, one tablespoonful va- 
nilla. When slightly jellied stir into one pint of 
whipped cream. (From German Cook Book.) 

Mrs. Valentine Morris. 


CHERRY PUDDING. 


Sift one and one-half cups flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, one-half teaspoonful salt, one table- 
spoonful sugar, one tablespoonful melted butter, two 
eggs beaten very lightly, one cup of milk. Mix into 
a batter. Have ready two pounds of sour cherries, 
stoned, saving all the juice, pour the batter into a 
buttered mold, pour cherries on top of batter, strew 

147 


thickly with sugar, press them down and bake thirty 
minutes. 

Sauce.—One small cup of sugar, one egg, but- 
ter size of a walnut, one tablespoonful of flour mixed 
with two tablespoonfuls of cold water, put nearly a 
pint of water on to boil, when boiling, pour in thicken- 
ing and then other ingredients, stir until it becomes 
a little thick, then flavor with nutmeg and brandy. 
This makes a most delicious pudding. 

Mrs. J. P. E. Scott. 


CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING. 


Two cups stale bread crumbs, four cups scalded 
milk, two squares Baker’s chocolate, two-thirds cup of 
sugar, two eggs, one-quarter teaspoonful salt, one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Soak break in milk thirty minutes, 
melt chocolate in sauce pan placed over hot water, add 
one-half sugar and enough milk taken from bread and 
milk to make of consistency to pour, add to mixture 
with remaining sugar, salt, vanilla, and eggs slightly 
beaten; turn into buttered pudding dish and bake one 
hour in a moderate oven. Serve with hard sauce or 
cream. (From the Boston Cooking School Cook 
Book.) Fannie Merritt Farmer. 


CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 


Two ounces chocolate, one-half cup butter, one- 

“half cup milk, one and one-half cups sugar, and 

three-quarters cups flour, one teaspoonful vanilla, one 

heaping teaspoonful baking powder, four eggs. Dis- 

solve the chocolate in five tablespoonfuls of boiling 

water. Beat the butter to a cream, add gradually the 
148 


sugar, beating all the while, add the yolks, then beat 
again, then the milk, then the melted chocolate and 
flour. Give the whole a vigorous beating. Now beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them 
carefully into the mixture ; add the vanilla and baking 
powder. Mix quickly and lightly and turn into a 
greased cake pan, and bake in a moderate oven forty- 
five minutes. This will make a large and a small turk’s 
head. Pour melted chocolate around the cake and pile 
whipped cream in the middle. Mrs. J. H. Harding. 


COCOANUT PUDDING. 


One-half cup cocoanut, grated; one pint of milk, 
one-half cup of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch, whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth and 
stirred in after the cornstarch is cooked. 

Custard for pudding.—Yolks of the four eggs, 
one pint of milk, one-half cup of sugar, flavor with 
vanilla and add a little cornstarch. This is a very 
delicious pudding. Mrs, E, T. Pugh. 


AUNT LYDIA’S COCOANUT PUDDING. 


One pound grated cocoanut, one pound sugar, one- 
half cup grated bread crumbs, the whites of ten eggs, 
one-quarter pound of butter and a little rosewater. 
Rub butter and sugar together; and when light add 
eggs and cocoanut alternately. This is filling for pie, 
one crust. The best I ever ate in childhood. 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 
149 


COCOANUT PUDDING. 


To one pound grated cocoanut add one pint milk, 
with the milk of the nut. Boil five minutes, then let it 
cool, Beat together one-half pound butter and one- 
half pound sugar to a cream, six eggs well beaten, one 
glass wine, one lemon grated (rind and pulp), two 
tablespoonfuls grated crackers, one nutmeg, Beat all 
together three or four minutes, then bake in pie plates 
lined with puff paste. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


COTTAGE PUDDING. 


One cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one egg, one cup of milk, three cups of flour, and one 
teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake and eat hot with 
hard sauce or dip. Mrs. J. M. Jenkins. 


CRANBERRY SHERBET. 


One quart cranberries, one and one-quarter pints 
water, one pound granulated sugar. Cook until it will 
press through a colander, strain and freeze. This 
will serve twelve persons in cups. S. B. Phillips. 


CUSTARD PUFF PUDDING. 


One pint of milk, four eggs, three tablespoonfuls 
of flour, a pinch of salt. Bake twenty minutes in a 
quick oven. Serve with either hard or wine sauce. 
Southern recipe, given by an old cook in Thomas- 
ville, Georgia, to 
Mrs. Henry D. Cooke, New York. 
150 


DANDY PUDDING. 


Eighteen lady fingers, or half lady fingers and half 
macaroons, 

Custard——One pint milk, two tablespoonfuls 
of cornstarch, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, yolks of 
three eggs. Pour custard over lady fingers, beat whites 
of eggs to a stiff froth with a little sugar, pour whites 
over custard and brown in oven for a few minutes. 

Mrs. G. J. H. Apeldorn. 


FAIRY CUSTARD. 


One quart milk, six eggs, one tablespoonful corn- 
starch, sweeten and flavor with vanilla. Put milk on to 
boil, in a farina kettle, with the flavoring. Beat to a 
stiff froth the whites of three eggs. When the milk 
boils, with a tablespoon drop the whites in, and scald 
them, then take them out with a skimmer and put away 
on a flat dish. To the milk then add the six beaten 
yolks, corn starch and sugar, let it boil until like a 
thick cream. Set away to cool. When ready to serve, 
beat the other three whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and 
add some preserved strawberries (same as for floating 
island). Then in your individual saucers put some 
custard, next the strawberry float, and on the top the 
scalded whites. Mrs, Henry P. Taylor. 


FRENCH HONEY, 


One-half pound butter, two pounds brown sugar, 
well creamed, add twelve eggs well beaten and juice of 
six lemons, grated rind of two lemons. Stir all thor- 
oughly together and boil twenty minutes. 

Mrs. O. H. Paxson. 
15st 


FRESH FRUIT SHERBET. 


Two grapefruit, one pineapple, maraschino cher- 
ries, six oranges, one-half pound white grapes. Cut 
grapefruit and oranges in halves, remove seeds, 
scoop out pulp without breaking sections. Remove 
rind from pineapple and cut into small pieces, Cut 
the grapes in half, lengthwise, and remove the seeds. 
Mix the fruits carefully together, adding sugar if de- 
sired. Keep on ice until wanted. Serve in sherbet 
glasses. Place two maraschino cherries or a few ripe 
strawberries on top of each glass. This sweet is ex- 
cellent for winter luncheons, when hothouse fruit is 
the only kind obtainable. Beatrice McGeorge. 


FROZEN CUSTARD. 


One quart milk, éight eggs, yolks only, one and 
three-quarters cups of sugar, one heaping tablespoon- 
ful of cornstarch, two inches vanilla bean. Put milk to 
boil in double boiler with vanilla bean, then add 
sugar, cornstarch and eggs beaten together, dissolving 
the cornstarch in a little of the cold milk saved from 
the quart. Stand to cool, but before cold add one pint 
of good cream, then freeze. Katharine Spencer. 


FRUIT PUDDDING. 


_One pint milk, three cups flour, three eggs, two 
quarts cherries, stoned, or blackberries. Steam in a 
double boiler for two and one-half hours. Grease 
boiler with melted butter. Make a sauce, using the 
juice of fruit for flavor. 

Mrs. Josephine Elsegood Buckman. 
152 


GRAHAM PUDDING. 


One and one-half cups graham flour, one cup mi‘k, 
one-half cup molasses, one cup raisins seeded and 
chopped, one teaspoonful of soda, one-half teaspoon- 
ful salt. Sift the graham flour and afterwards return 
the bran. Dissolve the soda in a tablespoonful of milk, 
add molasses and salt. Pour this mixture upon the 
graham flour and mix well, add raisins and steam four 
hours in baking powder tins, or any other tins pre- 
ferred, 

Golden Sauce for the Graham Pudding—Beat 
one-third of a cup of butter to a cream, beat into it a 
cup of sugar, add the beaten yolks of three eggs. After 
beating the mixture vigorously, add wine and brandy. 

Have the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
and stir into the beaten mixture. Set the bowl into a 
pan of boiling water and stir constantly for five min- 
utes. Contributed by Miss Onderdonk through 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


HAWARDEN PUDDING. 


Put in a farina boiler one quart of milk, when it 
comes to a boil stir in one tablespoonful cornstarch 
moistened with cold milk. Sweeten rather sweet, as 
the sugar freezes out, then add the well beaten yolks of 
six eggs, and let it boil until like a thick cream, stirring 
from the sides and bottom all the time with a wooden 
spoon, take off from fire and pour in bowl and add 
vanilla extract. Stand to get cold. Cut up in bowl 
one-half dozen candied apricots, one cup candied 

153 


cherries, and some fine slices citron, cover well with 
sherry wine and let it stand for two or three hours. 
When ready to freeze, add the beaten whites of the 
eggs to the custard and the fruit. Put all in freezer or 
pudding moulds. Pack in tub of ice and salt, and 
stand away to freeze, for four or five hours, Do not 
stir it. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


HESTON PUDDING. 


Into one pint of boiling water put one tablespoon- 
ful cornstarch, well mixed with a little cold water. 
Beat four or five eggs separately, pour starch into a 
large meat dish and while hot pour over the beaten 
whites, stirring briskly to mix well. Set this aside to 
cool. Take yolks of eggs and one pint of new milk to 
make a custard. When cool flavor custard with vanilla 
and mix the two together, a tablespoonful at a time. 
Serve very cold. 


HONEY COMB PUDDING. 


One cup milk, one cup sugar, one-quarter pound 
butter, one cup flour, one pint molasses, ten eggs, one 
teaspoonful soda. 

Very fine indeed. Given to a member of our 
family fifty years ago by a first-class cook. 

. E. F, Grundy. 


HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 


One-half cup of butter, one cup sugar, one and — 
one-half cups of flour, one-half cup sweet milk, two 
154 


eggs beaten separately. Sift a teaspoonful of ’R. bak- 
ing powder into flour and stir one pint of huckleberries 
into the flour and put in mixture. Bake forty-five min- 
utes. 

Wine Sauce for Huckleberry Pudding.—One- 
quarter pound butter, one heaping tablespoonful of 
flour, one large cup of brown sugar (dark), one cup 
of boiling water, let it boil five minutes. When ready 
to serve add one large cup of sherry wine. 

Katharine F. Spencer. 


HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 


One-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one-half 
cup molasses, one cup milk, two eggs, one pint berries, 
little cinnamon, one teaspoonful cake soda, three and 
one-half cups flour. Mix well and steam three hours. 
(Mrs. A. K. W.) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 


One cup butter, one-half pound sugar, three cups 
flour, one teaspoonful baking powder, five eggs beaten 
separately, one quart berries. Wash and dry the 
berries dusting them with some of the flour. Cream 
butter and sugar, add yolks, then «milk, flour, whites 
of eggs and berries alternately also one-half grated nut- 
meg. Bake in cake tin with tube in centre. Serve 
with hard sauce flavored with sherry, vanilla, lemon 
juice and nutmeg. Used forty years ago by 

Mrs, Anna Howell Dodge. 
155 


HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING. 


One-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, one- 
half cup molasses, one cup milk, two eggs, one 
pint berries, a little cinnamon, one teaspoonful 
cake soda. Allow enough to make as stiff as for 
pound cake batter. Boil for three hours. Serve with 
hard or wine sauce. Mrs. Georgene Waters. 


MANHATTAN PUDDING. 


Mix the juice of four oranges and two lemons and 
sweeten to taste. Then whip one pint of rich cream 
and add a cupful of chopped English walnuts and 
sweeten and flavor to taste. Fill a mould with the 
mixture, pack in ice and salt and let stand, without 
churning, for four hours. This is dainty and de- 
licious, Mrs. McCown. 


MARMALADE PUDDING. . 


Quarter of a pound of chopped suet, quarter of a 
pound of flour, quarter of a pound of bread crumbs, 
quarter of a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of 
marmalade, one egg, one teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der. A little milk, mixed to the consistency of plum 
pudding. Steam or boil three hours. 

Mrs. R. T. Deakin. 


+56 


MT. VERNON PUDDING. 


One pound of flour, one and one-half pounds 
sugar, one-half pound of butter, one-half pint of 
molasses, four or six eggs, one cup sour milk, one 
teaspoon of soda, one tablespoon each of ginger, cin- 
namon and spice. Bake in buttered dish and eat 
with hot sauce. 

Sauce.—One cup sugar, one-quarter pound but- - 
ter, three eggs. Melt the butter, beat in sugar, 
add yolks of eggs. While on the fire stir all the time. 
Take off and add whites. Season with wine or lemon. 

Mrs. J. Thompson Cole. 


PEACH PUDDING. 


One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, three cups of 
flour, two eggs and one-half cup of butter, two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. Mix and spread on a 
broad, shallow pan or dish., On top place peaches, 
halved and pared; cover with sugar. Put in a few 
pieces of butter and a few drops of vanilla extract. 
Bake about half an hour and eat warm with cream. 
. M. B. Packer. 


PEACH BAKED PUDDING. 


Line a deep dish with baker’s bread, cut thin— 
fill up dish with peaches cut in slices and sugared— 
cover the top with bread dipped in the yolk of an 
egg well beaten. Bake and serve with cream. 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 
157 


PLUM PUDDING. 


One pound of raisins (seeded), sultanas, one pound 
of currants, one-half pound of citron, one pound of 
beef suet, one cup of New Orleans molasses, one 
cup of brown sugar, full half teaspoonful each 
of cloves, allspice, ginger and cinnamon, three 
eggs well beaten, one and one-half loaves of bread 

. (crumbed), flour to make stiff (about three cups), 
one and a half teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

This was brought from England by a Mrs. Wood 
a number of years ago. (C. H. H.) 

Also Mrs. E. T. Pugh. 


PLUM PUDDING. 


Three-quarters pound raisins, three-quarters 
pound currants, one-half pound each of candied 
orange and lemon and citron, one and one-quarter 
pounds chopped beef suet, one pound flour, three- 
quarters pound light brown sugar, four eggs, about 
three gills milk, grated rind of two lemons, one-half 
ounce each nutmeg, cinnamon and cloves, glass of 
brandy, little salt. Mix thoroughly and boil five 
hours. Serve with brandy sauce. 


EXCELLENT PLUM PUDDING. 


One cup chopped suet, one cup molasses, one 
cup milk, one cup currants, one cup raisins, three 
cups flour, one teaspoonful bi-carbonate soda, one 
teaspoonful cream of tartar, a little cinnamon, wine- 
glass brandy. Steam three hours in a steamer. 

158 


Wine Sauce.—One cup butter, one cup sugar, 
one cup wine. Set the bowl in hot water till the in- 
gredients melt. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


AUNT SARAH’S PLUM PUDDING. 


Put one pound of pounded crackers in a basin 
with three-quarters pound of shredded suet, pour over 
them one quart of scalding milk, mix them well to- 
gether, add two pounds seeded raisins but not cut 
up, one pound currants, both well dredged with flour, 
one-half pound of citron, tablespoonful of cinnamon, 
four nutmegs, tablespoonful of ginger and four of 
flour, one pound brown sugar, teaspoonful of salt, 
wineglass of wine and one of brandy, two grated 
oranges. The next day add ten eggs, flour slightly 
a square cloth (leaving very little room) and boil 
seven hours. Turn it out in a round dish, perforate 
it with a fork and put in one-quarter of citron and 
one-quarter pound of almonds. Put plate in while 
boiling. Mrs. H. G. Michener. 


ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 


One pound raisins stoned, one pound currants 
washed and picked, one pound suet, ten eggs, half of 
whites left out, five-cent loaf bread or one and 
one-half pounds grated, one teacup of wine and 
brandy mixed, cinnamon, one-half nutmeg, one-quar- 
ter pound citron, three tablespoonfuls flour, one-half 
pint of milk or cream, salt to your taste. Boil about 
three hours. Mrs. J. B. Ritter. 

159 


ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 


Mix in ratio of pound to pound of chopped suet, 
raisins, currants, flour and sugar. To the above 
quantity of each add one ounce ground ginger, one 
ounce ground cinnamon, two grated nutmegs, one 
gill brandy, five eggs, one-half loaf stale bread 
crumbled fine, one-quarter pound citron and mix with 
milk. Steam in a double boiler allowing one-half an 
hour to a pound in weight. Grease boiler with melted 
“butter. Mrs. Josephine Elsegood Buckman. 


POETRY PUDDING. 


One quart milk, one pint flour, four eggs and 
bake one hour. 
Very simple and very good. 
Mrs. T. E. Morris. 


POPOVERS. 


One pint of milk, salt, three eggs, flour to make 
batter thick as griddle cakes. Bake in deep cups half 
an hour, pretty hot oven. 

October, 1873. Sallie. 


QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 


One quart of milk, one pint of bread crumbs, 
four eggs, one cupful of sugar, tablespoonful of but- 
ter, grated rind and half the juice of a lemon. Use 
only the yolks of the eggs in the pudding. Beat 
the whites of the eggs stiff, with one-half cup of 

160 


sugar, and the remainder of the lemon juice. Spread 
this over the pudding after it is baked and return 
to the oven to brown. Currant jelly may be spread 
over the pudding first, and then the whites put on; 
or after the whites are browned the jelly may be 
dropped over the top in teaspoonfuls. 

M. B. Packer. 


RICE MERINGUE. 


Boil in one quart milk two tablespoonfuls of 
rice to a jelly, add the yolks of two eggs, sugar to 
taste, a pinch of salt, and vanilla. Put in a pudding 
pan, beat the whites of the eggs stiff, sweeten, flavor 
with vanilla, and drop by spoonfuls over the top. 
Put in oven to brown. 

In use for over forty years. M.S. Crozer. 


RICE MERINGUE. 


Half cup of rice, boil in one quart of milk until 
soft. Three eggs, beaten separately. Stir yolks in 
boiling milk until it thickens some, pinch of salt, 
piece of butter the size of a walnut, sugar to taste. 
Turn into baking dish, Beat whites stiff, with a little 
sugar and flavor all with vanilla. Put on top of 
pudding and brown in oven. M. B. Packer. 


RICE MERINGUE. 


One cup of rice, six eggs, one pint of milk, juice 
of two and rind of one lemon, two cups of sugar, 
two ounces butter. Boil the rice in one quart of 

161 


water until tender, then drain in a colander, add it 
to the milk, then the butter and the yolks of the 
eggs and sugar beaten together until light, then add 
the juice and rind of lemon, turn into baking dish, 
and bake in a quick oven for one-half hour. Beat 
the whites until foamy and add gradually six table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, beating all the while, 
then beat until stiff enough to stand alone. Drop on 
top of pudding and brown slightly in oven. Serve 
cold. Etta Morrell. 


RICE PUDDING. 


One tablespoonful of rice to a quart of milk, sugar 
to taste, a little nutmeg if liked. As rice swells stir 
frequently and as rice absorbs fill up with milk, 
skimming off the skin each time, until the rice is 
about the size of popcorn; then put in oven a few 
moments until brown. 


RICE PUDDING. 


Two quarts milk, two tablespoonfuls rice. . Boil 
rice in milk, add piece of butter size of a walnut, 
sweeten to taste and boil until rice is tender. Flavor 
with vanilla. When rice is tender, put in hot oven 
until a crust forms, stir this into the pudding and 
allow a second crust to form, after stirring this in, 
allow a third crust to form, then take out and set 
aside to cool. 

This is my grandmother’s recipe and has been 
in use in our family for over sixty years. 

Mrs. E, Schlenk. 
162 ' 


ROCHESTER PUDDING. 


Two cups of flour, one of sugar, one of milk, 
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, one egg, fruit if you like, a pinch 
of salt. Steam one and a quarter hours. To be eaten 
with sauce. Mrs. Hubbard. 


SUET PUDDING. 


One cup milk, one cup suet, chopped and shred- 
ded, one cup raisins, one cup molasses, one quarter 
teaspoonful each of ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg and 
allspice, three cups flour, or more if not stiff enough. 
Two teaspoonfuls baking powder. Pour into a pud- 
ding bag or mold and boil for two hours. Serve 
with hard sauce. M. B. Packer. 


SUET PLUM PUDDING. 


One pound flour, six ounces suet chopped fine, 
one pound seeded raisins, one tablespoonful sugar, 
one teaspoonful allspice, very little salt. Mix with 
sweet milk until it will just drop from the spoon. 
Boil in a bag three hours. Serve with sauce made 
of sugar and water heated until a clear syrup, and 
flavored with brandy, vanilla or lemon. 

Mary Bunting Wolff. 


SNOW CUSTARD. 


Dissolve one-half box gelatine in one pint water, 
squeeze the juice of four oranges over two cups 
sugar, add the grated rind of two oranges, beat the 

163 


whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the 
sugar, gelatine, etc., and beat all well together. Make 
a custard of the yolks of the eggs, pour this over 
macaroons soaked in wine. The “snow” to cover 
all. (Mrs. A. R. Little.) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


SNOW PUDDING. 


Dissolve one-half box gelatine in one pint cold 
water. Add one pint boiling water, two cups sugar, 
juice of two lemons. Let it cool. When it begins 
to thicken, stir in beaten whites of three eggs. Serve 
cold with sugar and cream, or, if preferred, a boiled 
custard made of four eggs to one quart of new milk, 
sweetened to taste and flavored with vanilla. 


SOUFFLE. 


One pound of prunes, one-half box gelatine 
soaked in cold water. When prunes are well boiled 
pass through a sieve. Sweeten to taste and add juice 
of one lemon. Put all on the stove and boil.. Beat 
whites of four eggs, throw prune mixture over them 
and stir continually. Place im mold. Sweeten one 
pint whipped cream and pour over when served. 

One-half dozen apples can be arranged as above. 

Mrs. T. W. Tomkins. 


SPANISH CREAM. 


Soak one package of gelatine in one quart milk 
until thoroughly dissolved on a slow fire. Beat 
yolks of four eggs lightly and add one cup sugar, 
granulated. Stir in milk and gelatine, flavor with 

164 


vanilla and stir constantly over slow fire, then take 
whites of eggs and enough sugar to stiffen, flavor 
with vanilla and stir into custard. Do not allow to 
boil. Take custard off fire and add the whites of 
eggs and put away on ice for five or six hours to 
cool. Serve with cream. Mrs. E. Shlenck. 


SPANISH CREAM. 


Soak one-half box Cox’s gelatine in one quart 
milk two hours. Put in double boiler, and when hot 
stir in the yolks of three eggs beaten light, with 
small teacup of sugar. Scald as for custard. Mold 
cream in cups. Sauce to be made just before using. 
Whites of three eggs beaten light, with small teacup 
sugar. Add one-half cup orange juice. 

Mrs. T. W. Tomkins. 


SPOON PUDDING. 


One quart milk, eight tablespoonfuls flour, four 
eggs. Bake one-half hour. 

Sauce.—Work one-quarter pound butter, one 
pound sugar, one egg until light. Add one tumbler 
of wine, put on back of stove and just heat it well. 

Mrs. Robert Gover Allen. 


STEAMED PUDDING. 


One and one-half cups of molasses, two eggs, 
one teaspoonful of soda, one cup of sour milk. Flour 
to make a very thin batter. Season with cinnamon 
and steam thirty minutes in cake pan in steamer. 

Mrs. Robert Gover Allen. 
165 


STIRRED CUSTARD. 


One quart milk, four eggs, sugar to taste. Stir 
over the fire till as thick as cream, flavor with brandy 
and vanilla. Serve in glasses. 

Very old recipe. M.S. Crozer. 


SUET PUDDING. 


One cup of chopped suet, one cup of chopped 
raisins, one cup of currants, one cup of molasses, one 
cup of sweet milk, three cups of sifted flour, one tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in milk. Add ginger for 
ginger pudding. For Christmas add cinnamon, nut- 
meg, citron and chopped almonds. 

1870. Mrs. S. A. Kieffer, 

Chambersburg, Pa. 


TAPIOCA CREAM PUDDING. 


Four tablespoonfuls of tapioca, put to soak over 
night; four eggs, one teacupful of white sugar, one 
quart of milk, flavor to taste. Let the milk come to 
a boil, then add the tapioca, and after that the sugar 
and the yolks of the eggs well beaten; then add the 
flavoring, and just before taking from the fire add 
the whites. Stir it once or twice, pour into a dish and 
set away to cool. 

Columbia, S. C., 1878. 


TIPSY PARSON. 


One-half pound macaroons, pour on enough 
sherry wine to cover. Put one quart of milk in 
kettle when boiling, add four eggs and sugar and 

166 


when thick pour over the macaroons. Beat the 

whites to a stiff froth, add pulverized sugar, put on 

top and place in oven until it is a delicate brown. 
Mrs. E. Clark. 


VELVET CREAM. 


Half a pint of Madeira or sherry wine, half a box 
of gelatine, three and a half pints of cream, half a 
pound of white sugar. Put the gelatine in the wine 
on the fire until dissolved, then add sugar. When all 
is dissolved take off the fire, and when cool stir into 
the cream and fill molds. Quantity enough for two 
molds. Double rule, three quarts and one pint. 

1872. Mrs. J. W. Thomas. 


VELVET PUDDING. 


Five eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, 
one cuffee cup white sugar, four tablespoonfuls corn- 
starch dissolved in a little cold milk, added to the 
yolks. Boil three pints of milk and pour in the yolks 
while boiling. Remove from the fire when it has be- 
come quite thick, and flavor to taste, pour into a 
baking dish, beat the whites to a stiff froth with one- 
half cupful white sugar, then pour over the top of 
pudding, put it in the oven until it is slightly brown. 

Sauce.—The yolks of two eggs, one cup sugar, 
one tablespoonful butter. Beat the eggs well and 
add the other ingredients, with one cup boiling milk, 
then place it over the fire, and let it come to a 
boiling point; flavor to taste. 

Mrs. M. J. C. Whitaker, 
167 


WALLINGFORD PUDDING. 


Three cups bread crumbs, one cup milk, one cup 
molasses, one-half cup suet chopped fine, one cup 
raisins and currants mixed, one teaspoonful ground 
cloves, one-half teaspoonful soda, dissolved in the 
milk. Boil in a mould three hours. Serve with sauce. 

Mrs. Robert Gover Allen. 


WHIPS. 


One pint of thick cream, one pint of milk, one- 
half pint sugar, the juice of two lemons, two glasses 
of wine, put lemon juice and wine on sugar, have the 
cream very cold and mix and beat. Serve in glasses. 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 
(To be served with roast beef.) 


One quart milk, one teaspoonful salt, two eggs 
beaten very light, two tablespoonfuls flour, three table- 
spoonfuls dripping from joint. To the well-beaten 
eggs add the salt, flour, and one-third of the quart of 
milk; beat until very light, then add the rest of the 
milk, turn into very hot baking-pan with gravy. Add 
more gravy when nearly cooked. Cut into square 
pieces and place on platter around joint. 

This is an excellent old English recipe. 

B. McGeorge. 


168 


XIV. PICKLES. 


BORDEAUX SAUCE. 


Two gallons cabbage cut coarse, two gallons 
green tomatoes sliced, one dozen onions sliced, one 
pound brown sugar, one-quarter pound ground mus- 
tard, one-quarter pound white mustard seed, one-half 
ounce turmerio, one ounce celery seed, one ounce whole 
allspice, one ounce whole cloves, one ounce black pep- 
per, one ounce ground ginger, one gill salt, one gallon 
vinegar. Mix all together, put in porcelain kettle and 
boil for thirty minutes. | Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


BORDEAUX SAUCE. 


One-quarter peck green tomatoes, three onions, 
one small head cabbage, two red peppers, chop all to- 
gether; one quart vinegar, one-half gill salt, one ounce 
white mustard seed, three-quarters of a pound of 
brown sugar, one teaspoonful celery seed, one dozen 
whole cloves, one dozen whole allspice, one heaping 
teaspoonful turmeric. Cook slowly until soft, one hour 
or more. 


BOSTON PICKLED CHERRIES. 


Take sour cherries, stone them, put them in a 
bowl and cover with vinegar, let them stand for 
twenty-four hours. Then drain the cherries from the 


169 


vinegar. To every cup of cherries take one cup of 
sugar until all the cherries are measured. Put all in 
a bowl and let stand two days, stirring occasionally, 
until the sugar is dissolved. Then put in jars. It will 
be ready to use in a few weeks. (Mrs. M. R. Whit- 
ner.) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


BUCK AND BRECK PICKLES. 


One peck green tomatoes, one-half peck ripe to- 
matoes, three dozen peppers, red and green, three 
heads of cabbage, one dozen large onions. Chop, salt 
heavily and stand over night. Then add two pounds 
sugar, one teacup grated horseradish, one tablespoon- 
ful ground pepper, one tablespoonful mustard seed, 
one tablespoonful cinnamon, one tablespoonful celery 
seed or three bunches celery, vinegar enough to cover. 
Cook one hour. , 

Contributed by Mrs. John B. Stetson. 


CHILI SAUCE. 


Remove the skin from nine large, ripe tomatoes 
and slice. Add one green pepper and two onions 
chopped. Then two cups vinegar, two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, one tablespoonful ground mustard,one table- 
spoonful of salt, one teaspoonful of ground cloves and 
a little celery seed. Boil one hour and cork lightly. 

Mrs. J. M. Jenkins. 


CHILI SAUCE, 


Twelve large tomatoes, peeled, four green pep- 
pers, four large onions. Chop all very fine in a 
chopping bowl. Add two tablespoonfuls salt, two 

170 


tablespoonfuls sugar, two and one-half cups of cider 
vinegar, one tablespoonful of whole cloves in a bag. 
Cook one hour. Mrs. E. Moore. 


CHILI SAUCE, 


Forty large ripe tomatoes, four large onions, 
eight green peppers, six cups vinegar, eight table- 
spoonfuls sugar, four tablespoonfuls salt, three tea- 
spoonfuls cloves, ground, three teaspoonfuls ginger, 
ground. Pare and cut tomatoes. Chop onions and 
peppers fine. Boil together three hours. Put in glass 
jars while hot. “This will make you eat.” 


CHILI SAUCE. 


One peck pared tomatoes, stand one hour—allow 
full quantity for the water that comes out of them— 
one quart of chopped white onions, one quart of 
chopped celery, six chopped sweet peppers, one pint 
grated horse radish, two ounces ground cinnamon, 
one-half ounce ground cloves, one-half ounce ground 
allspice, one teaspoonful black pepper, one cup ground 
mustard, one cup salt, two pounds brown sugar, one 
quart vinegar. Boil together two hours. 

Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


CHILI SAUCE. 


One dozen large red tomatoes, one cup vinegar, 
two tablespoonfuls salt, one cup sugar, two onions, 
two green peppers chopped fine. Cook until thick. 
Scald and skin and seed the tomatoes. 

Mrs. George Kelly. 
171 


CHILIAN SAUCE. 


Twenty-four tomatoes, eight onions, eight green 
peppers, cloves, red and black pepper, one pound 
brown sugar, mustard seed, eight cups vinegar. Let 
simmer several hours, but never boil hard. 

Mrs. Georgene Waters. 


CHOW CHOW. 


One cauliflower, one-quarter peck greem toma- 
toes, two dozen cucumbers, one dozen peppers, four 
stalks celery, one-quarter pound white mustard seed, 
one-quarter pound black mustard seed, one-half 
pound yellow mustard seed (ground), three teaspoon- 
fuls of turmeric, one quart of small onions, one gallon 
cider vinegar. After boiling twenty-five minutes take 
off of the stove and add one wineglass of salad oil, 
one cup grated horseradish. Sweeten to taste. 

Mrs. M. J. C. Whitaker. 


CHOW CHOw. 


One-half pound white sugar, one-half gallon 
cider vinegar, one-half pound yellow ground mustard, 
one-quarter pound yellow mustard seed, one-half 
dozen peppers, one pint small white onions; soak a 
short time in salt water two quarts cucumbers 
sliced very fine, one pint lima beans boiled tender in 
salt water, one pint green corn cut from cob, boiled 
a very little, one quart string beans cut in small pieces 
and boiled tender, one pint nasturtions. Mix the 
ground mustard with a little cold vinegar smooth like 

172 


cream. Have the vinegar hot, not boiling, stir this 

mustard in it, now add vegetables, mixing well; boil 

a little all together and seal in Mason jars while hot. 
Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


CHOW CHOW. 


One-half peck of green tomatoes, one-half peck 
of green beans, twelve green peppers, six carrots, one 
quart of lima beans, one-quarter pound of black and 
white mustard seed together, one-quarter pound box 
of yellow mustard. Slice the tomatoes and let them lay 
in salt while you prepare the other vegetables. Mix 
them well together and cover with good cider vinegar 
and boil until tender. The lima beans, carrots and 
string beans are better boiled a half hour in water and 
drained before they are mixed with the tomatoes. Add 
to this quantity one-half pound of granulated sugar. 
While hot bottle and seal. M.M. Moore, -- 


COLD SLAW. 


Four eggs, one-half cup vinegar, one tablespoon- 
ful sugar, pinch red pepper, small piece of butter. 
Heat together vinegar and butter, then stir in eggs 
(which have been beaten). Keep stirring until 
it thickens like a soft custard. Let it cool before put- 
ting it on the cabbage. Stand in ice box until served. 


COLD TOMATO CATSUP. 


Pare tomatoes and throw off the water and seeds, 
cut the pulp fine and to one peck add three pints of 
vinegar, one teacup of salt, one of mustard seed 

173 


pounded, four pods of red pepper broken up, three 

tablespoonfuls of black pepper, one small cup of celery 

seed, two pieces of horseradish cut up, one cup of 

nasturtion seed cut up fine, mix cold, bottle and seal. 
Gettysburg, September, 1874. 


CUCUMBER PICKLES. 


Wash the cucumbers in cold water, and wipe them 
dry, put them in a jar with alternate layers of green 
peppers and horseradish sliced thin. To one gallon 
of vinegar add one teacup of salt, one of sugar, quarter 
of a pound of white mustard seed, same of black 
pepper; a lump of alum size of walnut. Boil this 
and pour over the cucumbers hot three successive days. 

September, 1884. Mrs. Robert Shoemaker. 


EUCHRED PEACHES. 


Three pounds of peaches pared and whole, one 
and one-half pounds of sugar, one glass of water, one 
wineglass of vinegar. Dissolve sugar in water 
and vinegar. When peaches are done, if the juice is 
not rich enough, take out the peaches and cook the 
juice longer. Put in glass jars while hot. 


FRENCH PICKLE. 


This recipe for “French Pickle” I brought from 
the Southland “befo’ de wah,” and have used it ever 
since. Mary Bunting Wolf. 

One-half peck green tomatoes, six large onions, 
three large green peppers, one large head of cabbage, 
chopped together; one tablespoonful ground allspice, 

174 


one of cloves, two of salt, one-half pound white mus- 
tard seed. Put into a preserving kettle, cover with 
vinegar and boil two hours. 


GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 


Nine quarts of gooseberries, Rub off the blossom 
and stem. Cook slowly in a porcelain kettle, adding 
six pounds of brown sugar, a little at a time, until 
cooked at least two hours. When done or before, add 
one tablespoonful each of ground cloves, cinnamon and 
ginger and one pint of good cider vinegar. Cook at 
least one hour longer and put into jars while hot. 

1887. Mrs. Follet, Sandusky, Ohio. 


GREEN TOMATO PICKLE (SWEET) OR JAM. 
To Use with Cold Meat. 

Twelve pounds green tomatoes, sliced, six pounds 
sugar, one-quarter pound raw ginger root, cut up, 
juice of three or four lemons, rind of two lemons. Put 
a cup of water in the kettle to keep from burning. Boil 
until the tomatoes lose their shape. Add the sugar, 
lemon and ginger. Boil from two to three hours until 
it turns brown and the mass thickens a little. Then 
put into air-tight jars—hot. This makes four or five 
quarts. 


GREEN TOMATO PICKLE, 


Wash and slice one-half bushel green. tomatoes, 
also one dozen onions, twelve pods green peppers, all 
sliced; sprinkle salt over them and let them lie all 
night; in the morning drain them. Put two ounces of 

175 


mixed mustard, two ounces of raw ginger grated, two 
ounces allspice, one ounce mace and one ounce turmeric 
in a muslin bag—all the spices must be ground and 
mixed together. Put a layer of tomatoes and spices 
alternately in the kettle, add strong vinegar—two gal- 
lons to this quantity—and two pounds brown sugar. 
Boil until they are tender. 
Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 


One gallon green tomatoes sliced thin, six good 
sized onions sliced thin, one quart vinegar, one pint 
sugar, one tablespoonful salt, one tablespoonful ground 
mustard, one tablespoonful ground black pepper, one 
teaspoonful allspice, ground, one teaspoonful cloves, 
ground. Mix all together and boil until tender, stirring 
often lest they burn. Put in glass jars while hot. 


GREEN TOMATO PICKLE, 


Two pecks sliced green tomatoes, two dozen good- 
sized onions, sliced ; three ounces of black pepper, two 
ounces whole allspice, one-half pound ground mustard, 
two ounces whole cloves, two ounces mustard seed, 
three pounds brown sugar, four quarts vinegar. Slice 
tomatoes and onions and sprinkle salt over each layer. 
Let this stand over night and drain off the liquor. 
Then put all on and boil fifteen minutes. Put in glass 
jars. 


GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 
One-half peck of “small” green tomatoes, two 


pints vinegar, two tablespoonfuls salt, one tablespoon- 
176 


ful whole cloves, one tablespoonful whole allspice, one 
tablespoonful celery seed, one tablespoonful mustard 
seed, one-quarter teaspoonful cayenne pepper, two 
cups brown sugar. Put vinegar, sugar and spices on 
to boil, then put in tomatoes sliced very thin and let 
scald. Mrs. George Kelly. 


GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 


Slice one tub of green tomatoes and to each layer 
of tomatoes sprinkle over a layer of salt. Let them 
stand one day and night. To finish, put in a large pre- 
serving kettle a layer of the salted tomatoes and a thin 
layer of sliced onions,- until the kettle is full. Then 
cover with good cider vinegar, to which has been added 
one-half pound of yellow mustard, one-quarter pound 
of mustard seed, one tablespoonful of whole cloves. 
Boil all together for twenty minutes and put hot in 
jars for use. M. M. Moore. 


GREEN TOMATO SAUCE. 


Chop fine one peck green tomatoes, three onions, 
three peppers. Sprinkle over this one large cupful of 
salt and let stand twenty-four hours. Drain thor- 
oughly and cook fifteen minutes in one quart vinegar 
and one quart water; drain again; take two quarts 
cider vinegar, two pounds brown sugar, one-quarter 
pound yellow mustard seed, one tablespoonful each 
ground mustard, ground cinnamon, ground cloves, 
ground ginger, To this add chopped pickle. Cook at 
least one-half hour. 

This was made by my grandmother and was so 
good we have made it in our family ever since. 

E. F. Grundy. 
177 


SWEET GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 


Dissolve a half pint of salt in three quarts of cold 
water. Slice one peck of green tomatoes and cover 
with. the salt and water. Put over the fire and scald 
well, Then drain well. Put the drained tomatoes 
in the cleaned kettle, add one quart of vinegar, two 
quarts of water. Scald and drain thoroughly. 

For the Pickle.—Boil two pounds of sugar, one 
quart of vinegar. Stick cinnamon and whole cloves 
to taste. Put the tomatoes into jars and pour over 
them the hot pickle. Seal at once. 

M. H. Moore. 


GREEN PICKLE. 


Three dozen cucumbers, one quart little onions, 
two quarts green tomatoes sliced, four large peppers 
cut up, one teacupful horseradish grated or sliced, 
two tablespoonfuls ground mustard, one tablespoonful 
turmeric, one pound sugar, one-half ounce whole cloves, 
two ounces white mustard seed, one gallon good vine- 
gar, two and one-half ounces celery seed. Boil slowly 
one hour. Mrs. Robert Gover Allen. 


HIGDOM. 


One peck of green tomatoes, twelve large onions, 
sliced; half pound of whole mustard seed, half pound 
of ground mustard, one ounce black pepper, a few 
whole cloves. Slice the tomatoes, and salt for twenty 
hours. Draw off all the water and put into a kettle; 
alternate layers of tomatoes and onions and each kind 
of spice; cover with vinegar and boil one hour, keep- 
ing the kettle covered. M. B. Packer. 

178 


HIGDON PICKLE. 


One peck green tomatoes, one peck cucumbers, 
twelve onions, one dozen green peppers. Slice them 
and put into a kettle, sprinkling salt between the 
layers. Cover with vinegar, and when it begins to boil 
add the following spices: four tablespoonfuls of all- 
spice, one teaspoonful of cloves, six teaspoonfuls of 
mustard, four teaspoonfuls of white mustard seed, 
two teaspoonfuls celery seed, four pounds brown 
sugar. Boil until clear, and if more salt is needed add 
to taste. . Mrs. Anna Howell Dodge. 


KETCHUP. 


One basket tomatoes. Wash and cut in pieces. 
Do not skin, Add two handfuls of salt and let stand 
over night. Next morning put them on to boil until 
they fall apart, strain through a fine sieve, put on to 
boil again, skimming frequently. Then add one pint 
of cider vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one- 
half teaspoonful of red pepper, five cents’ worth of 
whole cloves, five cents’ worth of allspice, two table- 
spoonfuls of mustard seed, one onion (in a bag), 
which is removed after this is all boiled to about half. 

Mrs. G. J. H. Apeldorn. 


A GOOD RECIPE FOR MUSTARD. 


One-half cup of Coleman’s mustard, pinch of salt 
and same of sugar. Enough California vinegar to mix 
smoothly. Mrs. J. P. E. Scott. 


179 


MUSTARD PICKLE. 


Three quarts cut cucumbers, three quarts cut green 
tomatoes, three red peppers (or more if preferred), 
one-quarter pound mustard, one-half ounce turmeric, 
one-half cup flour, one and one-half pounds sugar, 
one ounce celery seed, three pints cut onions, three 
quarts vinegar. Save out one pint vinegar and mix 
flour and mustard and put in pickle when nearly done. 
Cook thirty minutes or more. Lay tomatoes in salt 
water over night. 


MUSTARD PICKLE. 


One quart lima beans, one-quarter peck stririg 
beans, one quart small onions, six red peppers, six 
green peppers, two stalks celery, ten ears of corn, two 
dozen small salted cucumber pickles, one-half pound 
brown mustard, one-half pound yellow mustard, one- 
half gallon vinegar, one pound white sugar, one-quar- 
ter pound mustard seed. Parboil both kinds of beans 
and chop fine; slice onions and lay in salt and water ; 
slice pickles fine, chop celery, put all in kettle together 
and cook for a short time. A delicious pickle, 

Mrs. Georgene Waters. 


PICKLE. 


One-half peck green tomatoes, one-half peck ripe 

+ tomatoes, three heads cabbage, one dozen onions, two 

green peppers, two ripe peppers. Chop, and salt over 

night. Drain well in morning. Add one teacup of 

grated horseradish, two pounds brown sugar, three 

tablespoonfuls of mustard seed, three tablespoonfuls 
180 


of ground mustard, one tablespoonful of pepper, four 

tablespoonfuls of celery seed, one tablespoonful of 

turmeric. Cover well with vinegar and boil one hour. 
Mrs. Robert Gover Allen, Darlington, Md. 


PICKLED CANTALOUPES. 


Take a basket of cantaloupes, seed and cut in slices 
and pare them. Pack closely in a vessel, cover with 
vinegar, add three-quarters of a pound of sugar, boil 
and skim. Then put in cantaloupes and boil until trans- 
parent. Take out and lay in jars. Add to the syrup 
one ounce of mace and cinnamon, quarter of an ounce 
of cloves, whole spices all, tie them in a cloth, let them 
boil half an hour and pour over the fruit. 

1884. Mrs. E. W. Appleton. 


PICKLED MANGOES. 


Make a strong brine of table salt so that it will 
bear an egg. Put the mangoes in and let them re- 
main nine days. To two gallons of vinegar add two 
ounces of ginger, two ounces of black pepper, two 
ounces of nutmeg, one ounce of cloves, one ounce of 
mace, one ounce of allspice, one ounce of cinnamon, 
two ounces of turmeric, two pounds of brown sugar, 
garlic, horseradish, mustard, coriander and celery seed 
to taste. Put the spices into some chopped cabbage, 
and to each mango a tablespoonful of olive oil. 
Boil the vinegar, sugar and spices together, and when 
the mangoes are filled with the cabbage, which has 
been mixed with the garlic, horseradish, mustard, cori- 
ander and celery seed, pour over the boiled spiced 
vinegar. Put in self-sealing jars. 

M. H. Moore. 
181 


PICKLED PEACHES. 


Twelve pounds peaches, four pounds sugar, one 
quart vinegar, ten cents’ worth whole cloves, ten cents’ 
worth stick cinnamon. Bring to boiling point and 
pour over peaches three mornings. Drop the peaches 
in boiling water, take out quickly and wipe off fuzz, 
sticking three cloves in each peach. Pack in stone 
jars and pour over them the hot vinegar and sugar, 
With the cloves and cinnamon in small muslin bags. 


RED CABBAGE. 


Put about twelve pints of water on to boil, add 
two chopped onions. When boiling put in a large 
head of cabbage sliced fine; gradually boil three- 
quarters of an hour, stirring occasionally to keep from 
burning. When done add four tablespoonfuls vinegar, 
pepper, salt, one teaspoonful sugar, thicken with a 
little flour—quarter of a teaspoonful—and finally add 
wineglass of claret. Cook few minutes until claret 
is absorbed. Served best with spare ribs. (From Ger- 
man cook book.) Mrs. Valentine Morris. 


SLICED CUCUMBERS. 


To three dozen cucumbers sliced add four onions, 
a small teaspoonful of salt. Let this drain eight hours. 
Add a teacup of whole mustard seed, one-half ounce 
black pepper. Put in jars and cover with vinegar. 
Mrs. J. H. Michener. 
182 


Soy. 


One peck tomatoes, two quarts of onions, two 
quarts big green peppers, one-half cup salt, one ounce 
celery seed, one-half ounce of mace, one ounce of 
cloves, a handful coriander seed bruised in a mortar. 
Chop tomatoes, peppers and onions fine. Boil two 
hours, then add one pint strong vinegar. Boil twenty 
minutes longer. 

Mrs. V. A. Sanford, Dayton, Ohio. 


STUFFED PEPPERS. 


Remove tops of peppers and take out seeds. Put 
tops back in peppers and put in salt water over night. 

Make Filling—Two pounds chopped cabbage, 
one pound onions, one pound sugar, one pound white 
mustard seed, one pound black mustard seed, one cup 
grated horseradish, one cup salad oil, one tablespoon- 
ful turmeric, one tablespoonful ground cloves, allspice, 
and mace. Put mixture in peppers, tie on tops, put in 
jars and cover with vinegar. 


TOMATO BUTTER. 


Eight pounds of red tomatoes, three pounds of 
brown sugar, one tea cup of strong vinegar, two 
lemons, one-half cup of mixed spices tied in a cloth. 
Put in a kettle the vinegar, sugar and spices and when 
hot put in the skinned tomatoes, which have had the 
water poured off them. Boil all together until very 
soft. Put in hot, self-sealing jars. M.M. Moore. 

183 


TOMATO CATSUP. 


Boil half bushel of tomatoes until they are soft, 
squeeze them through a sieve, add one quart vinegar, 
one pint salt, one ounce whole cloves, one ounce 
ground cayenne pepper, one dessertspoonful black pep- 
per. Mix all together and boil three hours; bottle 
without straining. Garlic, if you like. 

M. B. Packer. 


TOMATO CATSUP. 


One gallon of tomatoes, one-half gallon vinegar, 
four tablespoonfuls black pepper, four tablespoonfuls 
salt, two tablespoonfuls mustard, two tablespoonfuls 
cayenne pepper, two tablespoonfuls allspice. Boil six 
hours. Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


XV. PRESERVES AND JELLIES. 


CURRANT BAR-LE-DUC. 


Get the largest size currants, red or white, and 
stem them without breaking. 

To each pound allow three pounds of sugar. Take 
some ordinary currants and bruise them while warm 
until you have a pint of juice. Put half a cup of this 
into a porcelain preserving kettle and add three pounds 
of sugar. 

Bring slowly to a boil and skim very carefully. 
After boiling five minutes drop in carefully one pound 
of large currants and simmer four minutes. Take 
them out without breaking them, boil syrup down five 
minutes, or longer if it is not very thick, as the currants 
are sometimes less juicy than at others. A few minutes 
more will be needed at one time than another. 

When thick skim well, strain through a hot cloth 
over the fruit. Put it into little jelly glasses and when 
cold cover with hot paraffin and paste paper over all. 
Keep this preserve like the strawberries—in the dark. 

Make only a small quantity of these preserves at 
a time to avoid crushing the fruit. It is better to use 
the rule as it is given than to double it. Gooseberry 
bar-le-duc is made exactly in the same way as currant. 

Copied from newspaper. Mrs. H. P. Taylor. 

. 185, 


MARMALADE. 


Four pints ripe currants, one pound seeded 
raisins, two oranges and four lemons, grated rind and 
juice only, four pounds sugar. Cook slowly forty 
minutes or until almost the consistency of marmalade. 


ORANGE MARMALADE. 


One dozen seedless oranges, four lemons. Cut 
all across the grain as finely as possible. Place in deep 
dish with three quarts of water and let stand for thirty- 
six hours. Boil two hours and add six or seven 
pounds of crushed sugar. Boil one hour longer or 
until it will jelly. The addition of a wineglass full 
of spirits when nearly done will clarify it, making 
impurities rise to the top. Mrs. T. W. Tomkins. 


PEACH BUTTER. 


Pare, stone and weigh the fruit; heat peaches 
slowly, stirring often, After they are hot boil quickly, 
still stirring, an hour or until they are soft. Add then 
the sugar, allowing three-quarters of a pound of sugar 
to each pound of fruit. Cook until smooth and thick, 
at least one hour longer, stirring constantly. Put into 
jars. 

PINEAPPLE JAM. 


Take ripe pineapples, wash well. Cut off rind 
and take out the eyes. Grate down with a coarse 
grater. To one pound of fruit add one pound sugar. 
Cook until clear and getting thick. Put in glasses. 
When cool cover with melted paraffin. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 
186 


SPICED CHERRIES. 


Boil a pint and a half of cider vinegar with an 
ounce of stick cinnamon and an ounce of cloves, each 
tied in a bag. Then add four and a half pounds of 
sugar and boil ten minutes more, skimming well. Put 
in seven pounds of stoned cherries and cook gently for 
half hour ; lift out fruit with a skimmer and boil syrup 
down till thick. Put cherries into jars, keep hot until 
you add the syrup; then close and seal. They are very 
nice with cold meats. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


SPICED CHERRIES. 

Seven pounds of fruit, four pounds of sugar, one 
pint of vinegar, half an ounce of ginger root, one tea- 
spoonful of cloves, two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, half 
a teaspoonful of ground mace. Make syrup in pre- 
serving kettle of vinegar and sugar. Put in cherries 
and scald them, skim out and place in colander. Put 
in two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon and one of cloves 
tied up in a bag (or same proportion of whole spices 
left in). Boil it down until just enough left to cover 
cherries, then put them back until! thoroughly heated 
and bottle. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

Nine pounds peaches, one quart of vinegar, three 
pounds sugar, one tablespoonful of bark cinnamon, 
one tablespoonful cloves, one-quarter ounce of mace. 
Pare the peaches, put the sugar, vinegar and spices 
on to boil. Pour over the peaches. Let it stand until 
almost cool. Boil the syrup again and pour over 
peaches the second time. Stand until the next day and 
then boil the peaches and syrup together for one-half 
hour. Mrs. J. H. Michener. 

a re A 187 oo 


XVI. SHERBETS, WINES, ETC. 


BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 


Here is a recipe at least a hundred years old. 
M.B.W. 

Take the berries and crush slightly, put on a slow 
fire and simmer until all the juice is freed. Put into 
a bag and squeeze out as you would currants in making 
jelly. For each pint of juice add a heaping cup of 
sugar. Put it over the fire, let it come to a hard boil 
and skim. To each pint of juice add a handful of 
cloves, three large sticks of cinnamon, three pieces of 
ginger root and a little allspice. Boil it again. Then 
to each pint add (after straining off the spices) one- 
quarter pint of French brandy and bottle hot. In hot 
weather especially this cordial is valuable for invalids 
and elderly persons. 


“MOTHER’S” BLACKBERRY SYRUP. 


One quart blackberry juice, one pound loaf sugar, 
one ounce stick cinnamon and one ounce whole cloves 
tied in thin muslin. Boil fifteen minutes. When cool 
add one-half pint fourth-proof brandy. Excellent for 
diarrhoea. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 

188 


. 


BLACKBERRY WINE. 


Put berries ina tub. Cover with water, mash very 
fine and let stand twenty-four hours to ferment. Strain 
through a bag. To one gallon juice put three pounds 
of sugar. Put in stone jugs with room to ferment, 
cork tightly and put in a cool place. 

Mrs. Robert Gover Allen, Darlington, Md. 


DANDELION WINE. 


Pour one quart of boiling water over one quart of 
dandelion flowers and let it stand three days. Take one 
pound of sugar to each quart of liquid, one lemon and 
three oranges to a gallon. Take the liquid with flow- 
ers and rind of lemon and oranges and boil fifteen min- 
utes, strain out the lemon and oranges and put in the 
sugar, and when lukewarm put in two tablespoonfuls 
of yeast. Let it remain ten days, then strain and bot- 
tle. It is then fit for use. M. J.C. Whitaker. 


GRAPE JUICE (UNCOOKED). 


Mash the grapes and strain through a jelly bag 
that has not been used. Sweeten with clarified sugar 
(if desired) to the taste, then put the juice in sterilized 
bottles and place them in cold water, over the fire, and 
let the water come to 175 degrees of heat, then cork 
and cement for use. The finest juice made. 

Mrs. W. H. Tomlinson. 
189 


GRAPE JUICE. 


To five pounds of perfect Concord grapes add one 
pint of cold water in a porcelain-lined kettle, heat to 
boiling point, without boiling. Strain through a bag, 
return to the boiler and heat until it simmers. Heat 
the bottles, fill and seal. Mary Bunting Wolff. 


GRAPE JUICE. 


Cover grapes with enough water to keep from 
sticking, boil for quite a while, strain, and to each quart 
of juice add one pint water and three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar. Let come to a good boil and bottle. 

Annie J. Orme. 


UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE. 


With ten pounds Concord grapes, use three 
pounds sugar. Weigh the grapes, stones and all (not 
stems). Put in a porcelain-lined kettle, with one pint 
of water ; as spon as they burst, mash them through a 
sieve and strain thoroughly. Return the juice to the 
kettle, add the sugar and simmer twenty minutes. 
Bottle at once in bottles previously heated, seal and 
stand away. (“Frank R. Cannon.”) 

Mrs, Henry P. Taylor. 


UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE. 


Five pounds of Concord grapes washed and picked 
from the stems. Put into a preserving kettle with one 
190 


quart of water, and let it come to a boil. Set aside to 
cool and then strain through a fine cloth or a cheese 
cloth bag. Return to kettle with one pound of granu- 
lated sugar, and once more let it reach the boiling 
point. Have bottles heated and pour in the juice while 
boiling hot, setting bottles on a warm wet cloth to 
prevent cracking, then pound in the corks firmly, cut- 
ting them off even and cementing well. Seventeen 
pounds of grapes make about eight quarts. 


UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE. 


Ten pounds grapes (weigh after taking off stems). 
Boil in one quart of water until soft enough to strain 
through a bag. Then put the juice on to boil. Add 
two and one-half pounds granulated sugar and let boil 
five minutes. Bottle boiling hot in pint bottles and 
seal with sealing wax. Stand bottles in boiling hot 
water while filling. Mrs, E. Steele. 


MINT PUNCH. 


Melt a cup of granulated sugar in the strained 
juice of six lemons. Then add three peeled and sliced 
lemons, sliced very thin, Leave all in a big bowl, set 
on ice until just before serving. It cannot be too 
cold. Transfer to your punch bowl, mix in a quart 
finely powdered ice, stir for a moment and pour from 
the height of two feet upon the mixture three bottles of 
imported ginger ale. Lastly, add a dozen sprays of 
green mint washed and slightly bruised between the 
fingers. Mrs. John Moss, Jr. 

191 


RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 


To three quarts of berries add one pint of vinegar 
(good measure), mash the fluid, cover and let stand 
twenty-four hours. Strain, add one pound of sugar 
to each pint of juice. Boil half an hour, bottle and 
seal. . 

August, 1899. Mrs. W. W. Harding. 


RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 


Two pounds raspberries. Pour over two quarts 
vinegar, Next day strain liquor on two pounds fresh 
raspberries. Let stand one day, then strain into stone 
jar. To each pint of liquor add one pound of sugar, 
stir until dissolved, then put jar in hot water, keep boil- 
ing one hour. Skim and bottle when cold. 


RAW FRUIT DESSERT—RED CURRANT 
SHERBET. 


Two cups red currants, two cups red raspberries, 
one cup sugar. Stem currants, mash them well. Add 
mashed raspberries and mix all thoroughly with sugar. 
Keep on ice until wanted. Serve in sherbet glasses. 
Place a few green leaves on each dessert plate around 
foot of sherbet glass, This is an easily made and very 
delicious sweet for a hot day. 

Miss Mabel Shaw, 
Glen Cove, Long Island, N.Y. 
192 


TEA PUNCH. 


To one pint of cold tea add two full whiskey 
glasses of whiskey, one and one-half glasses of jamaica 
rum and a dash of maraschino. Sweeten to taste and 
put slices of lemon and orange to decorate. 

Mr. E. D’E. Picot, of Phila. 


WHITE BEER. 


One tablespoonful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful 
of cloves, four tablespoonfuls of ginger, one teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar, two pounds white or light brown 
sugar, one quart fresh yeast, ten quarts water. Boil 
cinnamon and cloves in two quarts of water and pour 
it over the ginger, sugar and cream of tartar, then ada 
the remainder of the water, which will be eight quarts ; 
then add the yeast, stir well and set in sun. Let it 
stand one day and night, then bottle. 


193 


XVII. CANDY. 


BUTTER TAFFY. 


Three cups brown sugar, one and one-half cups 
water, one-half tablespoonful vinegar. Just before 
finishing add piece of butter size of an egg. Flavor 
with vanilla. Do not stir it. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


CARAMEL, 


One pound sugar, one pint cold water. Put the 
sugar in a perfectly dry porcelain sauce pan and let it 
brown; then add the cold water, a little at first to cool 
the sugar; then stir it until it boils. The instant it 
boils it is ready for use. Strain it and bottle it, but 
do not cork it. For coloring, soups, etc. (“Miss 
Dod.”) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


CARAMELS. 


One cake of unsweetened chocolate, one and one- 
half pounds of brown sugar, one and one-half pounds 
granulated sugar, one-half pound butter, one table- 
spoonful vanilla, enough cream or rich milk to mix 
sugar well. Put sugar and milk on stove and allow 
to boil well for ten minutes, then add butter and when 


194 


that is melted add the cake of chocolate.. From the 
time the chocolate is added never cease stirring until 
the candy is removed from the fire. When the mixture 
follows the spoon from the side of the pan in strings 
it is done; then add the vanilla. Take from the fire 
and beat until nearly cold. Turn into well-greased 
pans and mark into squares with a knife. 
Mrs. John Moss, Jr. 


' CARAMELS. 


Two cups of sugar, one cup rich milk or cream, 
butter size of an egg, one-half cake of chocolate. Boil 
sugar and cream three minutes, then add broken 
chocolate, let it come to a boil—add butter last. Cook 
until it leaves the pan and beat until thick. Add vanilla 
when off the fire. Miss Pierce. 


CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 


One-quarter pound Baker’s chocolate, two tea- 
spoonfuls New Orleans molasses, one-half cup of milk, 
one pound brown sugar, butter size of an egg, one 
teaspoonful of vanilla. Let all heat slowly and stir 
until dissolved and boil until it hardens when dropped 
in cold water, turn into a greased pan. When partly 
cold mark in squares and stand in a cool place. 

Mrs. Charles D. Barney. 


CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 


One-quarter pound Baker’s chocolate, one pound 
brown sugar, six tablespoonfuls syrup molasses, one- 
half cup milk, piece of butter size of an egg. Boil 
until stiff. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 

195 


CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 


Beat two cupfuls of molasses, one cupful of brown 
sugar, one cupful of cream and one-half pound of 
chocolate all together. When boiling add a piece of 
butter the size of an egg. Boil until it thickens in 
water. Turn into large flat tins well buttered. When 
nearly cold cut into small squares, 

Miss Evelyn Whitaker. 


COCOANUT CREAM. 


Two pounds of granulated sugar, one-half cup 
water, one cup grated cocoanut, one pinch cream of 
tartar. Put in agate kettle sugar, water and cream of 
tartar and let it boil, not too hard; then take off and 
beat white ; then stir in the cocoanut. Drop on buttered 
tins before too stiff. (“Miss Wall.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


COCOANUT HILLS. 


One grated cocoanut, the white of one egg beaten 
light, one tablespoonful of flour, sugar to taste. 
Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


, FUDGE. 


One pound brown sugar, one-half pound pow- 
dered sugar, one-half cake Baker’s chocolate, one- 
quarter pound butter, one-half cup rich milk or cream, 
vanilla to taste when cooling. Miss Janney. 


196 


FUDGE. 


One-half cake of chocolate, two cups sugar, one- 
half cup milk, vanilla extract. Boil until it stiffens 
in cold water. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


GLACE WALNUTS. 


Two cups granulated sugar, one pound of walnuts. 
Cover the sugar with water and allow it to boil until 
it becomes slightly yellow. Do not stir or jar, as the 
sugar crystallizes very easily. Remove from fire, 
throw walnuts in separately and lift each with a fork 
out of the hot liquid and place on greased plates until 
hard. Miss Williams. 


HOARHOUND TAFFY. 


Take hoarhound (herb), pour boiling water over 
it to make one and one-half cups tea. Strain it, pour 
it over three cups brown sugar, one-half tablespoonful 
of vinegar. Just before finishing add piece of butter 
size of an egg. Do not stir it. Excellent for colds. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


AN EXCELLENT SUBSTITUTE FOR MAPLE 
SYRUP. . 


One pound brown sugar, as much water as will 
dissolve it. Cook slowly to a syrup. 
Evalyn M. Paxson. 


197 


“MIKADO” NUT CAKES. 


One pound light brown sugar, just enough water 
to moisten, one quart peahuts, not too well roasted; 
take off shell and red skin; pulverize the kernels and 
keep warm. Boil sugar until stiff. Quickly stir in the 
nuts and drop in spoonfuls on greased paper. (“Miss 
S.T. L.”) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


HOME-MADE MOLASSES CANDY. 


One pint New Orleans molasses, one pound gran- 
ulated sugar, one teaspoonful butter, one teaspoonful 
lard, one teaspoonful vanilla. Cook in iron frying 
pan until it thickens, Pour in round cake pans to cool. 

Katharine Spencer. 


OLD-FASHIONED MOLASSES CANDY. 


One pint New Orleans molasses, one cup brown 
sugar, one-half cup butter or lard, one teaspoonful of 
baking soda when nearly done cooking. Add as many 
nuts as you can stir in. Cook molasses, sugar and 
lard together over a slow fire, stirring frequently until 
crisp and brittle in a cup of water. Then add soda and 
nuts, pour on buttered pans. Mrs. O. H. Paxson. 

' 


MORAVIAN MINT CAKES, 


One pound confectioners’ sugar, four teaspoonfuls 
water, twelve drops oil of peppermint. Wet sugar with 
water, boil in double boiler until all is dissolved. Add 
oil of peppermint. Drop into small pans or on oiled 
paper. Elizabeth Comfort Gerhart. 

198 


‘ NUT CANDY. 


One cup English walnuts, one cup light brown 
sugar, one-half cup rich milk or cream, butter size 
of an egg, flavor with vanilla. Mix ingredients and 
boil fifteen or twenty minutes, then stir in the nuts, 
chopped fine, and keep stirring until the candy creams. 

Very fine. Miss Elizabeth Fay. 


PEANUT CANDY. 


Have an iron pan heated and put in two-and one- 
half cups granulated sugar. Stir until melted; then 
quickly stir in one cup of peanuts. Pour into greased 
pans immediately, as it hardens very quickly. Have 
a brisk fire, but not red hot. (“Mrs. D.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


PEANUT CANDY. 


One pound granulated sugar, melt over a -quick 
fire, no water. When melted stir in a pint of nuts and 
pour in a greased pan. Mrs. J. H. Michener. 


PEPPERMINT DROPS. 


Two cups sugar, nearly one-half cup water, boil 
seven minutes by the watch, then add one-half tea- 
spoonful oil of peppermint (after you take it off from 
the fire). When a little cool drop on buttered tins. 
(Mrs. M.R.Whitner.) — Mrs, Henry P. Taylor. 


199 


PINOCHA. 


Four cups brown sugar, one cup milk, one table- 
spoonful butter, one-half teaspoonful salt, one table- 
spoonful vanilla extract, one and one-half cups shell- 
barks and black walnuts. Boil until it forms a soft 
ball, in cold water; take from fire, beat well, add the 
nuts and pour in buttered pans. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


RUSSIAN FUDGE. 


One can condensed milk, one-half pound brown 
sugar, butter size of an egg, add a tiny dash of salt. 
Boil until it will harden if dropped in water. 

Miss Swayne. 


SALTED ALMONDS. 


Blanch one cup almonds, put into them one table- 
spoonful melted butter ; stir well and let them stand for 
one hour; then sprinkle with one tablespoonful salt. 
Put them in a baking pan, in a moderate oven, and 
cook them, with an occasional stirring until they are 
a delicate brown, about twenty minutes. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


TURKISH PASTE. 


One ounce sheet gelatine soaked two hours in one 
cup of water. Put in an agate or porcelain kettle, one 
pound granulated sugar and one-half cup water; mix 

200 


well, then boil twenty minutes. Have ready the juice 
and rind (grated) of one orange and one and one-half 
lemons, one tablespoonful brandy or sherry wine, one 
cup almonds or shellbarks cut fine. Take kettle from 
fire, add the above and pour into the pans wet with 
cold water. When cold cut in squares and roll in pow- 
dered sugar, to which has been added a little corn 
starch. 

Orange Turkish Paste, made as above, but 
squeezing the juice and rind of orange and lemon 
through cheese cloth, and omit the nuts. ‘ 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


UNCOOKED FONDANT. 


One tablespoonful of ice water, the white of an 
egg beaten stiff, and one teaspoonful of flavoring. Mix 
thoroughly with XXX confectioner’s sugar until right 
consistency. This fondant is for immediate use and 
can be used for the same candies as the cooked fondant. 
As this fondant hardens quickly, candy should not be 
left exposed nor kept for any length of time. 

Miss Evelyn Whitaker. 


XVIII. INVALID AND SICK 
: ROOM COOKERY. 


ARROW ROOT PUDDING. 


One dessertspoonful of arrow root, one-half pint 
milk, one teaspoonful sugar. Put on in a sauce pan the 
milk to boil; then in a bowl put the arrow root and 
sugar, make it smooth with a little cold milk. The 
instant the milk boils, pour it over the arrow root and 
stir constantly. For the pudding, take two eggs, one 
teaspoonful of sugar, one-half ounce butter. Separate 
the yolks and whites. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, 
add to the arrow root the yolks and sugar and mix well 
together, then add the whites carefully. Grease well 
the pudding dish with the butter, put in the mixture 
and bake in a hot oven for five minutes. (“Miss 
Dod.”) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


BAKED MILK. 


It is not generally known that baked milk is an 
admirable food for consumptives and most invalids. 
Put one-half gallon good milk into a stone jar, cover 
with writing paper tied down, Leave in a moderately 
hot oven for eight or ten hours, until it becomes the 
consistency of cream. The amount.of nourishment to 
be derived from it is marvellous. 

Mrs. T. W. Tomkins. 
202 


BEEF TEA No. 1. (EXCELLENT.) 


For beef tea take the beef from the top part of 
the round, remove all fat. Cut the meat across the 
grain, in very small pieces. Put it on the fire in a dry 
sauce pan and let the meat sweat for five minutes 
on a slow fire. Stir occasionally to keep from sticking, 
then pour over it its weight of cold water (one pound 
of meat, one pint of water). Stir it together till the 
water boils, then let it simmer for ten minutes. Strain 
it, when cold remove all fat. 


BEEF TEA No. 2. (FOR INDIGESTION.) 


Prepare one quarter pound of beef as above. Cover 
it with one gill of cold water, in a sauce pan, and let it 
come to a boil very slowly (about twenty minutes). As 
soon as it boils, take it off and strain it. When cold 
skim off the fat, Give the patient the clear soup or 
tea. 

BEEF TEA No. 3. ° 


One ounce of beef, cut same as above, then shred 
off the meat. Pour over two tablespoonfuls cold water 
and let it soak for fifteen minutes. 


BEEF TEA No. 4. (LONGWAY.) 


Two or three pounds of the shin of beef. Remove 
all the skin and also the marrow from the bone. Cut 
the meat into small pieces. Put the meat and cracked 
bone, also a knuckle of veal, into a strong stone jar, 
cover it and tie a piece of strong brown paper over it. 
Stand it in a kettle of boiling hot water, and let it boil 
allday. Then strain it. (“Miss Dod’s Recipes.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 
203 


CHICKEN JELLY. 


Put the chicken, with the bones well cracked, into 
two quarts of cold water, cover kettle closely, and boil . 
until all falls to pieces, and water reduced to at least 
one-half, then strain and add salt. When cold carefully 
take off all fat, Put jelly in glass jar and keep in a 
cold place. Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


FOR COLD ON CHEST. 


One tablespoonful of Irish moss, well washed sev- 
eral times, cover with water and boil till quite soft, 
strain through a bag, then add the juice of a lemon and 
wine, also sugar to taste. Keep cold, and take a little 
frequently. It lubricates the throat and breast, is heal- 
ing and nourishing. Very old recipe. M.S. C. 


GERMAN WINE SOUP. 


Two or three slices black bran bread, boil and 
strain it (use a good pint of water), add three slices 
of zweiback, mix well. To one quart put two eggs, 
mixing them in a bowl, and slowly add the hot bread, 
until thoroughly mixed. Add three or four tablespoon- 
fuls of cream, and four tablespoonfuls good Rhine 
wine, a little salt, and let it all come to a boil. Sweeten 
to taste. (“Joseph Berens, M.D.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


INFANTS’ FOOD. 


Plate gelatine piece two inches square,* arrowroot 
teaspoonful,* milk one one-half pint to a quart or 
more, water one-half pint,* cream one to four table- 

204 


spoonfuls,* loaf sugar. Soak gelatine in a little water 
for few hours then boil in one-half pint water until 

. smooth, while boiling add, with constant stirring, milk 
and arrowroot, then take from fire at once. When 
cool add cream and sugar. 

‘When no food seems to agree with a child this I 
have known to do so and bring them to be healthy. 
Tried in our family for years, very valuable. 

Where asterisk (*), never to be increased. 

E. F. Grundy. 


JELLY WATER. 


One large teaspoonful of currant jelly, one goblet 
of ice water. Beat up well for a fever patient. Black- 
berry jelly is excellent, prepared in like manner for 
those suffering with summer complaint. : 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


KOUMYSS. 


One quart of milk, one tablespoonful of sugar, a 
piece of Fleischman’s compressed yeast, size of a 
filbert or a fifth of a cake dissolved in one tablespoon- 
ful of lukewarm water. Add this with the sugar to 
the milk made just tepid. Put into strong bottles with 
tight fitting corks wired on and tied down. Stand in 
an average temperature of ninety-five degrees for ten 
hours. Shake well four times the first hour, then place 
in refrigerator for four hours, when it is ready for 
use. Fill the bottles to within three inches of the top. 

Mrs. G. M. Hislop. 

Or.—Same ingredients, but dissolve sugar in a 
little hot water, the yeast in milk. Stir thoroughly 
together, bottle and cork. Stand in about forty degrees 

205 


for two days then lay on side and turn once each day 
for six days. Good for three months. 
March, 1889. Mr. Wm. Dawson. 


MUTTON BROTH. 


One pound lean mutton or lamb, cut small, one 
quart cold water, one tablespoonful rice or barley, 
soaked in a very little warm water, four tablespoonfuls 
milk, salt and pepper, with a little chopped parsley. 
Boil the meat, unsalted, in the water, keeping it closely 
covered, until it falls to pieces. Strain it out, add 
the soaked barley or rice; simmer one-half hour, stir- 
ring often; stir in the seasoning and the milk, and sim- 
mer five minutes after it heats up well, taking care 
it does not burn. If the patient prefers it, strain out 
the rice or barley. Serve hot, with cream crackers. 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


OATMEAL GRUEL. 

One-half pint milk, one small tablespoonful oat- 
meal, small pinch of salt, one-half teaspoonful sugar, 
piece of butter size of a nutmeg. In a basin put the 
oatmeal and mix it with a little cold milk, then add it 
to the milk in the saucepan. Stir it till it boils then let 
it boil for five minutes, at the last minute add the but- 
ter, sugar and salt. Then strain it. (“Miss Dod.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 
PORRIDGE. 

One pint water, three tablespoonfuls oatmeal; 
when it boils add a little salt, and let it boil slowly for 
one-half hour. (“Miss Dod.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 
206 


RESTORATIVE JELLY. 


One ounce pure Russian isinglass, one-quarter 
ounce gum arabic (pounded), two ounces sugar, one- 
half pint best port wine, one-half dozen cloves, one- 
half teaspoonful lemon juice. Put in a pitcher the 
isinglass, gum arabic, sugar, lemon juice, cloves and 
port wine. Cover it with brown paper and let it soak 
one hour, then place the pitcher into a kettle of boiling 
hot water and stir until the isinglass is melted; let the 

_ water in the kettle boil violently for a few minutes. 
Strain it on a flat dish and when cold cut in squares. 
(“Miss Dod.”) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


SODA MINT. 


Two teaspoonfuls bi-carbonate soda, one teaspoon- 
ful of peppermint, ten drops aromatic spirits of am- 
monia, one-half pint water. (“Miss A. Silliman.”) 

Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


WHITE WINE WHEY No. 1. 

One-half pint milk, one wine glass (one-half gill) 
sherry wine, one teaspoonful sugar. Put in a saucepan 
the milk and sugar, and, the ‘instant it boils, pour in 
the wine; when the milk curdles, strain it. Give it to 
the patient hot. 


WHITE WINE WHEY No. 2. 

One-half pint sherry wine, yolks of two eggs, one 
teaspoonful sugar. Put on the wine to boil. Beat the 
yolks and sugar together. As soon as the wine boils 
pour in the eggs, and when it curdles strain it. (“Miss 
Dod.”) Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 

207 


WINE WHEY. 


One quart of fresh milk, one tumbler of sherry. 
Put the milk in a farina boiler. Just as the milk 
comes to a boil, pour in the wine. Let it boil once 
again, then put in a cool place until the curd sets. 
Strain off through fine hair sieve and cheesecloth. Be 
careful to break off the curd as little as possible. If 
broken it makes the whey too milky. When properly 
done the whey will look clouded, not actually clear. To 
make clear requires more wine and it is usually too 
strong for an invalid. Made as above it is a refresh- 
ing drink. It must be sweetened to taste. Drink 
cool or with small pieces of ice. 


XIX. MISCELLANEOUS, 


REMARKS. 


Contributed by Mrs. H. G. Michener through 
Mrs. J. H. Michener. 

Mostly a collection of very old New Jersey 
recipes, used by Aunt Lydia Taylor and Aunt Sarah, 


REMARKS. 


These are all old and tried recipes used in the 
Paxson family, and much enjoyed by every one who 
has tried them. They were made more especially by 
Mrs. R. R. Paxson, of Lahaska, and used for many a 
quarterly meeting gathering. Mrs. O. H. Paxson, 


CLIPPING. 


. Always grease the gridiron well and have it hot 

before the meat is placed on it. Fish should be but- 
tered and sprinkled with flour, which will prevent 
the skin from adhering to the gridiron. Birds and 
other things which need to be halved should be 
broiled inside first. Remember that a hot, clear fire 
is necessary for cooking all small articles. They 


209 


should be turned often to be cooked evenly with- 
out being burned. Never put your fork in the lean 
part of meat on the gridiron, as it allows the juice to 
escape. Cover the gridiron with a tin pan or a 
baking pan. The sooner the meat is cooked without 
burning the better; the pan holds the heat and often 
prevents a stray line of smoke from ‘touching the 
meat. If the fire should be too hot sprinkle salt over 
it. Mrs. C. M. Thomas. 


TO TAKE ODOR FROM HANDS. 


When handling onions, fish or poultry, wet the 
hands, then rub them well with common table salt. 
Mrs. Henry P. Taylor. 


KEEPING MASHED POTATOES WARM. 


Every housewife, no doubt, has made more or 
less effort to solve the problem of how to keep 
mashed potatoes warm for one or two of the family 
when work has compelled them to report late for 
dinner. I feel I have at last mastered the mystery 
by going about it in this way: Put the crock in which 
they have been mashed in the oven of the heater 
until ready to serve, then beat the mass of potato 
with a large spoon just as though it were so much 
cake dough and add just a little heated milk, and 
under this treatment the former creamy consistency 
of the mashed potato always returns. 

Mrs. James P. E. Scott. 
210 


JAPANESE CREAM. 
For Cleansing Purposes. 


Four ounces ammonia, two ounces alcohol, four 
ounces white castile soap, two ounces ether,two ounces 
glycerine. Cut soap fine, dissolve in one quart water 
over fire. When nearly cold add four quarts water, and 
other ingredients, bottle, cork tightly. For washing 
dress goods, tea cup fluid to pail of water. Rinse 
and iron on wrong side while damp. For spots on 
cloth use equal parts, too strong for silk. Will re- 
move paint, cleanse carpets. Half this quantity 
makes. Tightly corked will keep for years. 

Once used no one would ever do without it. Given 
by Mrs. F. C. Gillingham. E. F. Grundy. 


Facts contributed by Mrs. J. H. Michener. 
TO KEEP SILVER FROM TARNISHING. 


Place small portions of gum camphor in the 
boxes, bags or chests, being careful not to place the 
camphor inside the vessels, as it is difficult to remove 
the taste. 

LINEN, LACES. 


To keep linen white place cakes of white wax be- 
tween the sheets, etc. Wrap laces in blue paper. 


TO SEW BRAID ON SKIRT. 


To sew braid or ribbon on a skirt which has been 
hemmed, so that the stitches will not be taken 
through: Rip open a small part of the hem, slip in 
a card or piece of paste-board, and hem over it. 

air 


TABLE OF WEIGHTS anp MEASURES. 


1 tablespoonful. 
= ¥% gill, % cup or 
1 wineglassful, 
¥% ounce. 
pound, 

cup or 4 pint. 
=¥% pint. 

pound. 

1 quart or 1 pound. 
4 ounce, 

= 1 pound. 
pound. 

pound, 
pound. 

ounce. 

ounces. 

ounce. 

pound. 

pound. 

¥% teaspoonful or 
3 good shakes. 

I pound, 
pound, 


Four teaspoonfuls of liquid. . 
Four tablespoonfuls of liquid. . 


One tablespoonful of liquid. 
One pint of liquid.... 
Two gills of liquid. 
One kitchen cup.. 

One heaping quart of sifted flour. 
Four cups of flour.............+ 
One rounded tablespoonful of flour. 
Three cups of corn meal............6+ 
One and one-half pints of corn meal... 
One cup of butter.............45 
One pint of butter......... 
One tablespoonful of butter... 

Butter, size of an egg........... 
Butter, size of a walnut......... 
One solid pint of chopped meat. 
Ten eggs (some exceptions) 
A dash of pepper..... ee 


Two cups of granulated sugar... 
One pint of granulated sugar...... 


One pint of brown sugar.......... = 13 ounces. 
Two and one-half cups of powdered 
SUL ve eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeceeeeeees == F pound. 


Sixteen ounces to the pound, 


212 


RECIPES. 


213 


RECIPES, 


214 


RECIPES, 


215 


RECIPES, 


216 


CONTENTS 


CLASS 1. 

Hors D’Ocuvres. 
Cold Crab Meat for Six.. 
Fresh Fruit Sherbet..... 
Fruit Cocktails .. 
Oyster Cocktails 
Pineapple Points . 
Stuffed Lemons ... 
Unique Dessert .. 


CLASS 2. 

Soups. 

Asparagus Sou 
Baked Bean Sot 
Black Bean Soup. 
Black Bean Soup. 
Black Bean Soup 
Black Bean Soup N 
Clam Bisque 


Fish Broth 
Mock Turtle 
Mock Turtle Sou 
Oatmeal Soup 
Soup a la Reine 
Stock for Soup a la 
Stock for Clear Soup. 
Tomato Bisque .. 


CLASS 3. 
Fish, Oysters, Etc. 
Rate Duke’s Codfish 


23 | Kid 
1 


Codfish Balls .... 
Codfish Balls .. 
Crab Cakes . 
Deviled Clams 
Deviled Clams 
Deviled Clams 
Deviled Oysters . 
Fricassee Oysters ..... 
Halibut a la Créme.... 
Lobster a la Newberg. 
Mock Terrapin for Breal 

fast 


Sa It Gdisk Cakes. 
Rpiced Oysters .... 

‘errapin a la Baltim 
Three Terrapin .. 


CLASS 4. 
Meats. 


Baked, Liver ...... 
IS ee 
Beet on e, Curing 
Chicken and Okra. . 
Creamed Chicken . 
Crown Roast of Lamb... 
To Cook a Ham......... 
Boiled Ham, French Style 
Boiled Ham . 
Father Adam . 
Jam Bolie of Ham ‘and 
Rice .........06 
Kidney, Stewed ... 
Iney Terrapin No. 1... 


Kidney Terrapin No. 2... 
Maryland Fried Chicken. 
Pennsylvania Scrapple ... 
Pressed Chicken 
Savory Beef .... 
Steak in Chafing Dish. :! 
Stewed Rabbit .... 
Stuffing for Turkey. 
Veal and Ham ... 


BSBISSSSBR 


CLASS s. 
Vegetables. 


Boiled Rice .... 
Corn Fritters . 
Corn Pudding 
Corn Puddin; 
Onions .. 
Rice Croque 
Rice Milk .. 
Stuffed Egg 


RBSSSSSS 


CLASS 6. 


Eggs, Breakfast and Lunch- 
eon Dishes. 


Baked Cheese Omelet. 
Cheese Pastry. 
Cheese Sandwiches .... 
Curried Rice and Egg: 
Eggs au Plat ....... 
Omelet ... 
Spanish Omelet 
Sauce for Omelet . 
Welsh Rarebit (Golden 


Buck) .e.csccpsreeseeee 
Welsh Rarebit (English). 


CLASS 7. 
Entrees. 


Chicken Croquettes 
Chicken Croquettes 
Chicken Croquettes . 
Chicken Croquettes . 
Chicken Croquettes, Au- 


gustine’s 47 
Chicken Terrapin ....111. 48 
Chicken Terrapin 200.01) 48 


Deviled Tomatoes ....... 49 
Sweetbreads, French Style 49 
Sweetbreads .........-+.- 50 
Veal Loaf with Tomato 

Sauce ...eeceeeeeeeseee 50 

CLASS 8. 
Salads. 

Apple Salad . 52 
Cherry Salad . 32 
Chicken Salad 52 
Cucumber Sala : 53 
Deviled Egg Sala i 33 


Endive Salad .... 
Lobster Salad .. 
Pimento Salad . 


Potato Salad ... 5 
Potato and Beet Salad... 55 
Potato Salad . eeeee 5S 
Red Cabbage 56 
Salad Dressing 56 
Salad Dressing 
56 
Walnut Salad .. : 97 
CLASS 9. 
Sauces. 
Elegant Pudding Sauce.. 58 
Fine Herbs Sauce .. - 8 
Horse-Radish Sauce 58 
Lemon Butter . 39 
Lemon Butter . 59 
Lemon Sauce .. . 50 
Mint Sauce Jelly - : 30 
Raspberry Sauce . +» 60 
Sauce Remoulade .. . 60 
Strawberry Sauce .. . 60 
Union Sauce for Cooking 
Birds ........ 6r 
Vanilla Sauce ........... 61 
CLASS 10. 
Breads. 


Baker’s Yeast .. 
Batter Bread, Vi 


Kate’s Potato Yeast 
Lizzie Nice’s In 
Cakes .. 


Batter Bread 
Batter Bread 
Bran Biscuit 


Maryland Beat Bis 
Maryland Biscuit 
Maryland Biscuit 
Brown Bread . Maryland Biscuit 


uick Biscuit . 


Buckwheats, 

Cooke, Jr’s. ... 
Buckwheat Cakes, 
Cinnamon Buns . 
Cinnamon Buns ... 
Ogontz_ School 


Pop-Overs .. 
Potato Biscuit 
Potato Puff Bisc 
Irish Potato Cakes 


mon_Buns Potato Puffs 
Corn Bread Potato Split 
Corn Bread Rice Cakes 
Corn Bread . Rice Cakes . 


SIIISIISSBSBI GQIRR BRRKRKLLP BLIP 


Corn Bread . Rice Scones 
Corn Bread . Old Fashione: 
Corn Bread . Sally Lunn 
Corn Bread . 
Aunt Lydia’s Co: eC. 
Piney Woods Corn Cakes 
Corn Muffins 
Democrats .. Quick Salt: 
Mrs. D.’s B ly a Raised Sally Lunn 
Doughnuts ............. 71 | Scalded Batter Brea 
Katie Duke’s Delicate Soda Scones .. 
Cream Muffins Soft Corn Brea 
Doughnuts .... Spanish Buns 
Entire Wheat Bread . Spanish Puffs . 


German Doughnuts . St. Charles, 7 
German Doughnuts . 
Ina’s Doughnuts .... Sunderland Puffs . 
Puff Ball Doughnuts .... Sweet Biscuit ... 


Miss Dod’s ropped Virginia Corn Bri 


RENIN INES 
SVVVVAs 


Scones ...... Ice Water Tea Biscuit. 
Dutch Cake . Auntie Mc’s Waffles. 
Dutch Cake . German Waffles . 
English Currant 74 ise Waffles . 
Fried Cakes ...... : Mary Morrison’s 


e 
Grits Corn Bread ... 
Indian Light Cake .. 


SSPLSREBRLLLG RRRRALRELLS LESELLL GSS SSSIBBIW 


Wisconsin Cake . 
Yorkshire Muffins . 


CLASS 11. 
Cakes. 


Allentown Cake . 
‘Almond Cake . 

‘Angel Cake . 
Angel Cake 10..200000 
Poor Man’s Apple Cake.. 92 


Bath Buns ...... + 93 
Bath Buns ........ + 
Burgess Cake ....... 93 


Buttercup Cake ... 94 
Cheap Cake ... 4 
Chocolate Cake 95 
Clara Cake 95 


Mrs. Peter’s ‘Coffee Cake. 95 
Cookies ......s.eeeeeeeee 95 
Cookies .........05 
Cocoanut Drops .... 
Cocoanut Jumbles_ .. 
Cocoanut Pound Cake. 
Cream Sponge 
Cream Cakes .. 
Crisp Ginger Cakes. 
Crisp Ginger Cakes. 
Crullers . 
Crullers . 
Crullers ... 
Crullers . 
Crullers . 
Crullers Gab 
Currant C: 
Delaware Peond Cake: 
Devil’s Cake .........66 
Devil Cake ........ 
Devil’s Food ..... 
“Mother's” Drop Cakes 
Drop Cookies ... 
Easton Tea Cake 
English Cake ... 
English Tea Cake... 
Feather Cake .. 
Mrs. Nay leon Stetson’s 
Fruit. ++ 103 
Fruit Cake 
Fruit Cake .. 


Fruit Cake 


Gingerbread Nuts 
Soft Gingerbread . 
Soft Gingerbread, 


perior 107 
Ginger ‘C: 107 
Ginger Cooki 108 


Extra Ginger Snz 
Ginger Wafers 
Ginger Pound 


Gold Cake 109 
Harlequin C: 109 
Herd 0 
Hickory 110 
Huckleberry Cake 110 


Ice Cream Cake 
Ice Cream Cak 


is 
Layer Cake 
Lepkaehon 
Long Island 
Macaroons 
Mrs. Jones’ 


Moravian Chris 

Cakes .... 
Molasses Cak 
Moravian Sugar 
Moravian Sugar Cake 
Mountain Cake 
New Orleans 


Nut Wafers .. 
Nut Wafers .. 
Oatmeal Cookies 
Orange Cake . 
Orange Sponge Cak: 
Peanut Cookies .... 
Peanut Wafers . 
Peculiar Cake . 
Pieffernusse ... 
Piccolomini Cake 
Plunkets .. 
President Cake 
Quick Cake ..... 
‘ice Cake ... 


Cakes 
Scripture Cake . 124 
Silver | a and Gold 
Ss. M.  Caice - 
Snippy Doodle Cake. be 
Sour Cream Spice Cake. 126 
Spice Cake .. seeee 126 
Spice Cake 
Sponge Cake 
Springerlae .... 
Strawberry Short Cak: 
Sugar Cakes . 
Sugar Cookies 
Sugar Cookies : 
Taylor Cake . 
Thanksgiving Cake 
Fine Wafer Fumbles . 
Walnut Cake .... 
Washin, jon Cake 
White Cake .. 
White Fruit Cake 
White Fruit Cake 
White Layer Cake . 
Mountain Cake. 
Mountain Cake. 
Waite Sponge Cake . 
“York” Nut Kisses. 
“York” Shellbark Cake. 
Boiled Frosting .... 
Caramel Filling for Cake. 134 
Chocolate Icing for Cake. 134 
Frostin, 

ion ling ior “Sponge 

Cake ..eeeeeeeeeeeeee 134 


CLASS 12. 
Pastry. 


Cheese Cake .. 
Cocoanut Pie ... 


Cream Pies . 135 
Custard Pie ... . 136 
Florida Lemon Pie .. 136 
Lemon Cheese Cake . 137 
Hattie’s Lemon Custard.. 137 
Lemon Meringue . 138 
Lemon Meringue Pie.... 138 


Lemon 
Lemon Pi 
Lemon Pie 


Linden Hall’ Seminary 
Tafly Pies .... 139 

Maryland Lemon Pies.... 140 

Superfine Mince Meat.... 140 


Mince Meat . 140 
Mince Meat . 140 
Mince Pie . 141 
Molasses Lemon Pie. 141 
Pumpkin Pie on 
Pumpkin Pies ..... 


Pumpkin Pie ...... 
Raisin Pie ........ 143 
Temperance Mince Meat: 143 


CLASS 13. 
Puddings and Desserts. 


A Banana Dessert . 
American Cream 


Apple Dumpling 144 
Apple Ginger .. 145 
pple Meringue 145 
Baked Rice . 145 
Balloons .. L 


Blanc Mange 
Caramel Custard 
Charlotte Russe . 
Charlotte Russe . 
Charlotte Russe . 
Cherry Pudding 
Chocolate Bread “Pudding mB 
Chocolate Pudding ...... 148 
Cocoanut Pudding ...... 149 
Aunt Lydia’s Cocoanut 
ding ............06 149 


Cocoanut Padding 


Cranberry Sherbet 150 
Custard Puff Puddis 150 
Dandy Pudding 151 
Fairy Custard 151 


French Honey ... 
Fresh Fruit Sherbet 
Frozen Custard 
Fruit Pudding 
Graham Pudding . 
Hawarden Pudding 
Heston Pudding . 
Honey Comb Puddi 
Huckleberry Puddin, 
Huckleberry Puddin, 
Huckleberry Pudding. 
Huckleberry Pudding 
Manhattan Puddit 


ig 


Plum Pudding 
Plum Pudding 
Excellent Plum 
a Sarah’s Plum Puc. 


Rice Meringue . 
Rice Meringue 
Rice Meringue . 


Rice Pudding . 162 
Rice Pudding . » 162 
Rochester Pudding ...... 163 
uet Pudding . + 163 
Suet Plum Fuddiny + 163 
Snow Custard . . 163 
Snow Pudding’: + 164 
Soufflé ....... 


Spanish Cream . 
Spanish Cream ..... 
Spoon Pudding... 
Steamed Pudding 
Stirred Custard .. 
Suet Pudding ... 


_ Pickled Mangoes ... 


Tapioca Cream Pudding. 
Tipsy Parson .... 
Velvet Cream 


Velvet Puddin 167 
Wallingford Pud + 168 
IPS see ee 168 
Yorkshire Pur 168 
CLASS 14. 
Pickles. 

Bordeaux Sauce .... . 169 
Bordeaux Sauce .. . 169 
Boston Pickled Cherries. 169 
Buck and Breck Pickles.. 170 
Chili 170 
170 
. 170 
171 
17t 
- 172 
. 172 
+172 
see 173 
Cold Slaw ...... eee 173 
Cold Tomato Catsup. . 173 
Cucumber Pickles ....... 174 
Euchred Peaches . 174 
French Pickle . 174 
jooseberry Catsup . 175, 
Green Tomato Pickle.... 175 
Green Tomato Pickle.... 175 
een Tomato Pickle... 176 
Green Tomato Pickle.... 176 
Green Tomato Pickle.... 176 
Green Tomato Pickle.... 177 
Green Tomato Sauce.... 177 

Sweet Green Tomato 
Pickle ... - 178 
Green Pickle . 1178 
igdom . +17 
Higdon Pickle ........+. 179 
Ketel up steers 179 
Good Recipe for Mustard 179 
Mustard Pickle » 180 


Mustard Pickle . 
Pickle ..... 
Pickled Cantaloupes 


Pickled Peaches . 
Red Cabbage 
Sliced Cucumbers . 


Tomato Butter 
Tomato Catsup . 
Tomato Catsup . 


CLASS 15. 
Preserves and Jellies. 


Currant Bar-le-Duc.... 
Marmalade ... 
Orange Marmalade . 
Peach Butter . 

Pineapple Jam 
Spiced Cherries 
Spiced Cherries | 
Spiced Peaches . 


CLASS 16. 
Sherbets, Wines, Etc. 


Blackberry Cordial ...... 188 
“Mother’s” Blackberry 
Syrup .. 

Blackberry Wine 
Dandelion Wine .. 189 
Grape juice (Uncooked): 18 
Grape Juice 1 
Grape Juice 
Unfermented Grape Juice 190 
Unfermented Grape Juice 190 
Unfermented Grape Juice 191 
Mint Punch 
Raspberry Vinegar 
Raspberry Vinegar 
Raw Fruit Dessert. 
Tea Punch . 
White Beer . 


CLASS 17. 
Candy. 


Butter Taffy 
Caramel .. 
Caramels . 
Caramels . 
Chocolate Caramels . 


+ 185 
186 


Chocolate Caramels ..... 195 
Chocolate Caramels . 

Cocoanut Cream . 
Cocoanut Hills . 


ry 
Maple Syrup ... 
“Mikado” Nut C: 


Candy 
Old-Fashi 

Candy 
Moravian 198 
Nut Candy . 199 


Peanut Candy 
Peanut Cand) 
Peppermint Dri 
Pinocha 
Russian . 
Salted Almonds 
Turkish Paste 


Uncooked Fon 201 
CLASS 18, 
Invalid and Sick Room 
Cooking. 


Arrow: Root Pudding.... 202 
Baked Milk 
Beef Tea No. 1 (Excel- 

lent, . 
Beef 


8 


Cold on Chest .. 
German Wine Soup. 
Infants’ Food 
Jelly Water . 
Koumyss . 
Mutton Broth 
Oatmeal Gruel . 
Porridge ... 
Restorative Jelly . 
Soda Mint ..... . 


BBRRERRBERES BR 


White Wine Whey No. 1. 207 To, agake Odor from 
White Wine Whey No. 2. 207 | _ Hands ..........+.-00+ 210 
Wine Whey + 208 Keeping Ma Mashed Potatoes 


CLASS 19. 
Miscellaneous. 


Remarks 
Remarks .. 
Clipping 


209 
sees» 209 | Table of W ights and 
209 Measures ..........4++. 212 


viii 


ee ial 


vores Google 


