.v-ga©lo.te\ 


di 


LE 


TFTte         CI 

OSTON  1-& 


OOKIN 

cnooL 

AOAZINE 


fr^ONTENTg 


Vol.  IV 


c 


^ 


JUNE,  JULY. 


No.  1 


The   Untrained   Hand.  Emma  P.  Ewing. 

Fads  and  Fancies  for  the  Table.     Eleanor  M.  Lucas, 

At  His  Old  Tricks.  Kate  M.  Post, 

China  (Illustrated).  George  W.  Barber. 

Importance  of  Domestic  and  Industrial  Training. 

Mrs.  John  A.  Logan. 

Camping  in  a  Deserted  House.      Marion  A.  Manchester. 

About  Salads.  Annie  P.  Doughty. 

How  to  Finish  Hardwood  Floors. 

Editorial  Department:  Janet  McKenzie  Hill. 

After -Breakfast     Chat  — Menus    and     Recipes    (Illustrated)  —  T  n 
Reference  to  Menus  and  Recipes  —  Queries  and  Answers. 

{For  complete  index  see  second  and  fourth  pages.) 

Published  Bimonthly  by 

THE    BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL    MAQAZINE 

Publication  Office:  22  School  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 


Copyright,  1899,  by  the  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Entered  at  Boston  Post  Office  as  second-class  matter 


iiminmiin 


■4 


&NTE.ED-  GENUINE  IF ■  flj 


WOOD'S 


i  i 

i 
f 

^.  MOCK*  AND  JAVA  BLIND  X 

in  ■» -«      =      PS  ^ 


It's  "all  in  the  Lens 


\\-.Yffi\        Korona 
Vwm       

EftfeU      r- 


Ours  is  the  only  house  in  the 
United  States  making  all  the 
parts  that  go  into  a  camera 

OUR  LENSES  ARE  FAMOUS 
PRICES  LOW  - 

A  catalogue  tor  the  asking 


Gundlach  Optical  Co. 

761  So.  Clinton  Street 

Rochester.  N.  Y. 


H  patients  Strength 

MEDICINE  DOES  NOT  ALWAYS  SUSTAIN  IT 


Food,  Food,  Food,  is  What  is  Required,  | 
but  in  Concentrated  Form. 

Brains !  was  the  reply  a  prominent  painter 
once  made  when  asked  with  what  he  mixed 
his  colors. 

Brains  I  would  be  the  reply  of  any  modern 
physician  if  asked  what  he  gave  to  effect  his 
marvelous  cures.  There  would  be  as 'much 
truth  as  terseness  in  the  answer. 

The  same  medicine  is  not  always  given  for 
the  same  disease,  in  these  times.  Circum- 
stances, the  age  of  the  patient,  and  surround- 
ing conditions  generally,  are  considered. 

The  first  thing  our  advanced  doctor  attends 
to  is  the  strength  of  the  patient.  That  must 
be  maintained  at  all  hazards.  Medicine  can 
no  more  be  carried  to  a  diseased  part,  when 
the  blood  hardly  circulates  on  account  of 
weakness,  than  a  rjoat  can  be  sailed  on  a  river 
whose  channel  has  run  dry. 


New  Blood  Must  Be  Made. 

New  flesh  tissue  must  be  built.  New 
strength  must  be  fcund,  and  all  this  with  the 
least  exertion  on  the  part  of  the  patient. 

In  such  emergencies,  beef  tea,  beef  extracts, 
jellies,  and  other  so-called  invalid  foods  have 
been  given,  but  they  were  not  satisfactory. 
Too  nr  .  of  the  life-sustaining  qualities  had 
passed  v^'f  in  the  cooking. 

Such  f^cts  as  these  led  to  the  discovery  of 
Bovinine —  the  greatest  and  most  concen- 
trated Beef  luice  ever  produced.  1 1  is  used  and 
nmendeu  by  physicians  the  world  over.  In 
thousands  of  cases  has  it  fanned  the  smoulder- 
ing embers  of  life  again  into  a  blaze,  and 
arrested  the  progress  of  some  wasting  disease. 

Fqi  infants,  the.  aged,  convalescents, 
the  overworked,  or  sick,  it  is  a  boon  beyond 
price.  No  family  can  afford  to  omit  Bovinine* 
from  their  medicine  chest.  Though  it  is  not 
a  medicine,  it  is  a  preventive  of  those  ills  for 
which  medicine  is  given. 


rv^^^v^^!rvj^!vy>^ 


THE    BOVININE   COMPANY 
london,  paris,  christiania        75  West  Houston  St-9  New  York 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Copyright  protected  by  Lyman  D.  Morse 

4- 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


MM 


COMPLETE    INDEX. 


Copyrighted,  1894, 


The  trouble  with 
your  gray  hair,  falling 
hair,  and  thin,  short 
hair  is  that  it  is  starved 
hair.  Such  hair  needs 
feeding,  nourishing. 

Hall's  Vegetable 
Sicilian  Hair  Renewer 
supplies  just  the  food 
healthy  hair  must  have. 
The  hair  grows  thick 
and  long,  and  all  the 
rich,  dark  color  of  early 
life  is  restored. 

If  your  druggist  cannot  supply  you,  send  one 
dollar  to  R.  P.  Hall  &  Co.,  Nashua,  N.  H. 


About  Salads,  13. 

After-Breakfast  Chat,  21. 

At  His  Old  Tricks,  5. 

Camping  in  a  Deserted  House,  11. 

China  (illustrated),  6. 

Economical  Menus  for  One  Week  in  June,  22. 

Editorials,  18. 

Fads  and  Fancies  for  the  Table,  3. 

How  to  Finish  Hardwood  Floors,  16. 

Importance  of  Domestic  and  Industrial  Train- 
ing, 9- 

In  Reference  to  Menus  and  Recipes  at  Farm- 
house, 28. 

Menu  for  One  Week  in  July,  26. 

Menu  for  Farmhouse  with  Summer  Boarders, 


News  and  Notes,  49. 
Selected  Verse,  17. 
Suggestions    in     Reference 

Menus,  23. 
The  Untrained  Hand,  1. 


to     Economical 


Queries  and  Answers,  41  :  — 
About  Meringues,  44. 
Beef-Tea  Custard,  41. 
Beef-Extract  Custard,  41. 
Bisque  of  Lobster,  44. 
Chocolate  Filling  and  Frosting,  46. 
Cold  or  Hot  Water  for  Cooking  Vegetables, 

45- 
Cost  of  Dinner  Chimes,  48. 
Cream  Soups,  43. 
Cream-of-Chicken  Soup,  43. 
Cream-of-Mushroom  Soup,  43. 
Corn  Beef,  To,  42. 
Egg  Loaf,  with  Asparagus,  46. 
Escarole  Salad,  44. 

Food  for  Fermentative  Dyspepsia,  47. 
Garnishes  for  Soup,  43. 

How  to  Avoid  Settling  of  Fruit  in  Cake,  43. 
How  to  Use  Volks  of  Eggs  Left  from  Angel 

Cake,  47. 
How  to  Make  Good,  Sweet  Bread,  47. 
How  to  Make  Lobster  Butter,  44. 
Irish-Moss  Drink,  41. 
Marrow  Balls  for  Soup,  43. 
Mocha-Cake  Filling  and  Frosting,  46. 
Orange  Cake  and  Frosting,  46. 
Peptonized  Milk,  41. 
Prune  Whip,  45. 
Puree-of-Mushroom  Soup,  44. 
Quantity  of  Soda  in  Brownbread,  45. 
Steamed  Brownbread,  43. 
Substitute  for  Milk,  45. 

{Continued  over.) 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


PINEAPPLE  ICE-CREAM  PUDDING. 
Make  a  boiled  custard  with  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
milk,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  one  cup  of  sugar  ;  add 
one  cup  of  grated  pineapple,  cooked  with  one-fourth  a  cup 
of  sugar  and  cooled,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  prepare  to 
freeze  as  ice-cream.  When  the  mixture  in  the  freezer  is  just 
beginning  to  set,  add  one  cup  of  cream,  whipped ;  finish 
freezing  and  pack  into  a  mould.  Set  the  mould  aside,  buried 
in  three  measures  of  ice  to  one  of  salt.  When  ready  to  serve, 
turn  from  the  mould  and  press  the  crown  of  leaves,  cut  from 
the  pineapple,  into  the  top  of  the  pudding.  Garnish  with 
cream,  sweetened  and  whipped. 


I^V 


o 


I 


V. 


V 


jt>-iS 


■>s 


Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


Vol.  IV 


JUNE  AND  JULY,  1899. 


No.   1. 


THE  UNTRAINED  HAND. 

A   Study  in  Household  Economics. 

By  Emma  P.  Ewixg. 


Of  all  the  young  women  who  have 
come  under  my  instruction,  as  a  teacher 
of  household  economics,  not  more  than 
one  in  each  twenty-five  could  sweep 
properly.  And,  as  far  as  my  observa- 
tion extends,  along  domestic  lines,  this 
ratio  will  hold  about  the  same  in  re- 
gard to  women  generally.  As  a  rule, 
women,  old  or  young,  do  not  know 
how  to  hold  a  broom.  When  a  woman 
takes  hold  of  a  broom,  she  places  the 
right  hand  near  the  top  of  the  handle 
and  the  left  hand  toward  the  broom- 
corn  ;  and,  instead  of  changing  and 
reversing  her  hands,  as  occasion  re- 
quires, she  keeps  them  in  the  same 
position  during  the  entire  time  she  is 
engaged  in  sweeping.  Whether  she 
sweeps  to  the  right  or  to  the  left, 
the  position  of  her  hands  remains  un- 
changed, and  her  body  is  contorted 
and  her  muscles  strained  in  a  per- 
formance that  would  exercise  those 
organs  beneficially,  if  the  hands  were 
so  trained  that  they  could  be  used  at 
will,  and  were  changed  as  the  changes 
in  the  position  of  the  sweeper  de- 
manded. 

I   refer  to  women  sweeping  merely 


to  illustrate  my  point,  and  because 
sweeping  is  a  daily  performance  with 
so  many  thousands  of  them.  But  what 
is  said  of  sweeping  can  be  said  with 
equal  truthfulness  concerning  the  train- 
ing of  the  hands  in  numerous  other 
branches  of  woman's  work  —  in  fact,  of 
nearly  every  other  occupation  in  which 
she  is  engaged.  And,  so  far  as  the 
training  of  the  left  hand  is  concerned, 
women  are  in  no  worse  condition  than 
men.  Women  and  men  are  maimed 
and  handicapped  alike  in  that  respect. 

But  the  imperfectly  trained  right 
hand,  not  the  neglected  left  hand,  is 
the  subject  of  my  present  study ;  and 
I  write  advisedly,  when  I  say  that  our 
domestic  workers  —  the  men  and  wo- 
men who  do  the  work  in  our  homes  — ■ 
could,  if  they  were  trained  to  use  their 
hands  intelligently  and  do  their  work 
skilfully,  do,  with  ease,  in  three  or  four 
hours  each  day,  what  they  now  do 
bunglingly  and  with  laborious  effort, 
in  twice  that  length  of  time. 

President  Charles  W.  Eliot,  in  a 
recent  number  of  the  Atlantic  Monthly^ 
says:  "The  automaton,"  meaning 
therebv    the    untrained    worker.     "  is 


.    ■ 


THE  B  OS  TON   t  :0  CAVA  'G-SCHO  dL    j  MA  GA  ZJ.\  'E. 


the  natural  result  of  despotic  in1 
stitutions,  and  counts  for*  .l-ees-  Vnd. 
less  in  the  industries;  while  'the  *  re»' 
sourceful,  initiating  individual,  the 
natural  product  of  free  institutions, 
counts  for  more  and  more."'  Neverthe- 
less, incompetent  workers  jostle  each 
other  in  every  highway  and  byway  of 
life,  and  seem  to  thrive  under  free  as 
well  as  despotic  institutions.  All  our 
industries  are  hampered  with  untrained 
workers  clamoring  for  higher  wages 
and  fewer  laboring  hours,  while  scien- 
tists of  different  schools  are  engaged 
in  devising  schemes  for  the  improve- 
ment of  society  and  the  elevation  of 
the  masses.  But  I  fail  to  see  how 
the  hours  for  labor  can  be  materially 
shortened,  the  rate  of  wages  materially 
increased,  or  any  great  reform  in  that 
direction  take  place,  so  long  as  the 
main  factor  in  the  production  of  such 
results  is  overlooked  or  neglected.  To 
accomplish  anything  along  economic 
or  sociologic  lines,  it  seems  to  me,  the 
"automaton,"  as  President  Eliot  calls 
the  unskilled  laborer,  must  be  ejected 
from  and  kept  out  of  our  industries, 
and  "the  thinking  individual"  be  in- 
stalled and  kept  therein.  And  espe- 
cially must  that  be  the  case  in  house- 
keeping, the  making  and  keeping  of 
the  home,  the  most  important  of  all 
human  industries. 

„  A  man  must  be  thoroughly  ac- 
quainted with  the  details  of  his  busi- 
ness to  make  his  business  a  success. 
This  is  true,  whether  the  business  be 
merchandising,  farming,  banking,  rail- 
roading, or  any  of  the  numerous  occu- 
pations in  which  men  engage.  It  is 
equally  true  in  regard  to  the  occupa- 
tions in  which  women  engage.  And 
in  no  occupation  is  it  more  true  than 
in   that  of   home-making.     The   integ- 


rity and  "usefulness  of  the  citizen  de- 
;  pie  nd  -  largely  \i\«ju 'the  condition  and 
"-character  'of  the  home.  And  home- 
making  should  be  the  most  progres- 
sive and  advanced  of  all  human  ac- 
tivities, instead  of  being,  as  it  is,  the 
most  laggard  and  belated. 

Household  mismanagement  is  the 
cause  of  leaks  that  bankrupt  many 
prosperous  enterprises  and  break  up 
many  happy  families.  No  woman  is 
fitted  to  be  a  wife  or  mother,  or  to 
preside  over  a  home,  who  has  not  a 
practical  knowledge  of  household  sci- 
ence. And,  as  a  large  majority  of 
women  are  destined  to  be  wives  and 
mothers,  it  logically  follows  that  such 
knowledge  is  as  important  as  any  that 
the  majority  of  women  can  acquire. 
Home-making  is  the  result  of  house- 
hold science  practically  applied,  and 
without  a  theoretical  knowledge  of 
such  science,  and  the  ability  to  ap- 
ply it  practically,  the  mistress  or  di- 
rector of  a  house  or  family  is  a  mere 
figurehead,  controlled  by  the  forces 
about  her,  instead  of  controlling  and 
directing  those  forces. 

A  man  or  woman  may  theorize  a 
lifetime  about  the  chemical  constitu- 
ents of  food  materials,  the  different 
methods  of  preparing  them,  and  the 
nutritive  value  of  each ;  but.  unless  that 
man  or  woman  has  the  practical  ability 
to  prepare  those  materials  in  such  man- 
ner that  they  will  yield  the  finest  flavors 
and  afford  the  greatest  amount  of  nu- 
trition, their  theoretical  teachings  are 
of  comparatively  little  value.  And  as 
in  the  culinary  department,  so  in  every 
other  department  of  household  eco- 
nomics. To  give  force  to  a  theory,  one 
must  have  the  skill  to  put  it  in  suc- 
cessful operation.  In  all  useful  work, 
the  head  and  the  hand  should  both  be 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


interested.  They  should  supplement 
and  aid  each  other.  The  more  skilful 
the  hand  becomes,  the  more  capable  it 
is  of  carrying  out  the  conceits  of  the 
head  and  doing  the  work  necessary  to 
be  done,  in  an  intelligent  and  satisfac- 
tory manner.  The  methods  of  house- 
work that  are  in  vogue  in  most  families 
are  the  fruitage  of  slavery,  servant-girl- 
ism,  and  inefficiency,  and  are  a  disgrace 
to  the  age  in  which  we  live.  They  can 
be  righted  only  by  the  thoughtful  brain 
and  the  skilful  hand.  And,  to  accom- 
plish the  desired  results,  the  hand  must 
be  so  trained  that  it  can  execute  the 
behests  of  the  head. 


To  attain  perfection  in  home-making 
requires  the  development  of  many  fac- 
ulties and  training  along  many  lines, 
and  requires  time  and  effort ;  but  a 
high  degree  of  skill  can  be  attained, 
by  any  one  of  ordinary  intelligence,  in 
most  branches  of  housework,  by  a  ju- 
dicious training  of  the  hands  alone. 
Why  should  not  every  wife  and  mothei 
be  at  least  sufficiently  well  equipped  as 
a  home-maker  to  instruct  the  workers 
under  her  supervision  —  if  necessary 
—  how  to  use  their  hands  skilfully 
and  properly  ?  Would  not  the  giving 
of  such  instruction  be  a  move  in  the 
right  direction  ? 


FADS  AND  FANCIES  FOR  THE  TABLE. 

By   E.   M.  Lucas. 


The  notion  to  utilize  spotted  mus- 
lin as  a  groundwork  for  embroidery  — 
letting  the  spot  form  the  centre  of  the 
flower — has  extended  to  table  linen. 
Spotted  damask  is  thus  employed,  dai- 
sies and  other  suitable  flowers  forming 
the  design.  Spotted  silk  or  satin  is 
also  fetching  for  table  centres,  having 
pale  yellow  for  the  scheme,  with  petals 
of  blossoms  worked  in  white. 

The  spotted  damask  is  especially 
pretty  for  tea  cloths ;  particularly  so 
when  a  "  marguerite  tea  "  is  to  be  ar- 
ranged. Of  course,  you  can  trace  the 
outlines  of  this  affair  in  a  moment;  but 
there  are  several  minor  features  ac- 
companying it,  quite  ingenious  in  their 
way,  that  may  help  the  woman  of 
small  resources  and  great  desires  in 
her  efforts  to  be  original. 


A  small  apartment  leading  from  the 
reception  room  should  be  selected  for 
the  tea-room.  About  the  room  big 
yellow  and  white  jars  are  disposed, 
crowded  with  long-stemmed  marguer- 
ites in  yellow  and  white.  Here  pretty 
girls  may  officiate,  serving  tea,  coffee, 
quaintly-cut  "  daisy  "  sandwiches,  cute 
little  white  cakes,  iced  to  simulate  dai- 
sies, and  big  sugar  daisies.  The  tea 
service  may  be  decorated  with  daisies, 
and,  of  course,  tea  cloth  and  doilies  are 
embroidered  with  daisy  designs.  The 
fair  tea  dispensers  should  be  gowned 
in  the  two  exclusive  colors,  —  white 
and  yellow,  —  with  marguerites  deck- 
ing hair  and  corsage. 

Dainty  tablecloths  for  five  -  o'clock 
teas  are  made  by  sewing  together  four 
fine    linen    or    cambric    handkerchiefs 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL    MAGAZIXE. 


trimmed  with  lace.  In  one  corner  a 
monogram  is  worked  with  white  or 
delicate -hued  silks,  while  in  the  op- 
posite corner  is  embroidered  a  tiny 
teapot,  serving  to  show  the  object  of 
lace-and-linen  square. 

Tea-tables  are  a  study  in  these  days. 
They  are  shown  in  such  endless  va- 
riety, in  styles  and  shapes,  sizes  and 
prices,  to  suit  everybody. 

A  curious  English  fashion  is  to  have 
a  tea-table  of  blue,  red,  or  yellow  ma- 
jolica. 

The  Japanese  tea-table  has  shelves, 
much  in  the  style  of  a  Japanese  cabi- 
net, irregularly  placed,  giving  one  a 
chance  to  group  the  "  tea  things  "  ef- 
fectively. With  these  are  sold  the 
curious  Japanese  ware.  —  lotus -blos- 
som cups,  funny  little  fat  teapots,  and 
all. 

A  lovely  tea-table  is  rather  low,  with 
two  shelves.  It  is  oblong  in  shape, 
ivory  white  as  to  color.  The  slender 
legs  have  an  outward  curve  and  are 
just  flecked  with  gold.  The  lower  shelf 
is  thickly  powdered  with  pale  yellow 
and  pink  primroses,  natural  size.  The 
shelf  is  then  girdled  by  a  narrow  strip 
of  brass  fretwork.  The  pretty  tea  ser- 
vice is  ivory  white,  while  for  borders 
and  edges  are  a  succession  of  dots  in 
gilt,  some  six  or  eight  in  number.  In 
the  middle  of  these  beauties  are  deli- 
cate flowery  wreaths  of  pink  primroses, 
artistically  done.  The  table  top  is  cov- 
ered with  fine  linen,  embroidered  in  a 
design  of  yellow  and  pink  primroses. 
The  whole  effect  is  peculiarly  artistic, 
—  a  veritable  primrose  gem. 

If  my  lady  finds  embarrassment  in 
performing  the  practical  functions  of 
pouring,  sugaring,  and  creaming  the 
steaming  tea.  she  may  follow  the  Eng- 
lish   innovation,  in  having  a  screen  of 


light  wire,  some  eighteen  or  twenty 
inches  tall  —  draped  lightly  with  soft 
diaphanous  material  —  placed  on  the 
outside  of  the  tea-table,  enclosing  it 
and  partially  hiding  the  fair  tea-pourer 
from  view. 

Turkish  coffee-tables  are  quite  the 
rage,  and  come  in  complicated  designs. 
Handsome  ones  are  inlaid  with  mother- 
of-pearl,  and  some,  with  silver.  Coffee 
with  whipped  cream  holds  its  own.  but 
a  new  departure  is  also  excellent.  Have 
a  large  pitcher  of  well  -  made  coffee, 
iced,  creamed,  and  sweetened.  Just 
before  serving,  place  in  each  glass  a 
tablespoon  of  rich  vanilla  ice  -  cream. 
This,  with  small  cakes  or  crisp  wafers, 
is  a  delectable  addition  to  my  lady's 
tea.  or  rather  coffee,  table. 

An  artistic  centre  cloth  for  summer 
use  is  of  fine  white  linen,  embroidered 
in  a  delicate  design  of  maiden-hair 
ferns,  with  soft,  cool  shades  of  gray- 
green  silks.  Of  course,  there  can  be 
no  prettier  subject  to  place  thereon 
than  a  low  pot,  or  basket,  containing 
the  original  of  the  design.  Ferns  are 
always  in  favor  for  table  decoration. 

A  sea  of  ice  is  a  cooling  device  in 
dinner-table  decorations.  Luckily,  it  is 
quite  an  economical  suggestion,  as  all 
one  needs  is  a  zinc  or  tin  tray  of  pro- 
portionate size  in  length  and  width, 
and  about  five  inches  in  depth.  The 
water  is  frozen  in  this  shallow  recep- 
tacle, which  is  placed  in  the  centre  of 
the  table  the  outside  banked  with  moss 
or  ferns,  and  dotted  with  tiny  blos- 
soms. A  little  canoe  may  be  frozen 
in  the  icy  sea  and  freighted  with  choice 
bonbons  or  blossoms. 

Ice  plates  —  moulded  for  the  pur- 
pose from  ice  —  are  now  used  in  serv- 
ing oysters  on  the  half  -  shell.  Of 
course,  thev  are  not  brought  in  before 


THE    BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


the  guests  are  seated,  but  directly 
after,  from  the  ice,  where  they  have 
been  kept.  A  doily  is  laid  over  these 
unique  plates,  and  the  shells  arranged 
on  the  linen.  In  lieu  of  "  ice  plates," 
serve  the  oysters  on  a  simple  colorless 
plate.  An  idea  of  coolness  and  fresh- 
ness should  always  be  associated  with 
fish  of  all  kinds. 

Speaking  of  cooling  effects  reminds 
me  of  another  novel  dinner  decora- 
tion. This  would  be  appropriate  for 
a  seaside  dinner,  and  the  idea  can  be 
elaborated  or  simplified,  to  suit  one's 
taste  and  convenience.  The  decora- 
tions consist  of  pretty  sea-shells  and 
seaweed,  to  be  arranged  to  suit  indi- 
vidual taste  —  perhaps  with  a  pyramid 
of  sea-shells  for  a  centrepiece,  and  the 
delicate  seaweed  arranged  in  or  among 
them  in  a  graceful  manner.  The  tints 
which  algce  take  on  are  very  delicate ; 
soft  shades  of  pink,  pearl,  and  brown, 
with  the  ever-changing  greens  and  yel- 


lows, may  be  found.  Pretty  shells  can 
do  service  as  finger  bowls,  bonbon 
trays,  salad  plates,  and  flower  holders. 
Novel  conceptions  may  be  conceived 
as  to  name  cards,  and  costumes  of 
sea-green  and  shell-pink  will  be  in 
keeping  at  such  a  feast. 

A  pretty  fad  for  floral  luncheons  is 
to  have  the  ices  served  in  candied 
roses,  lilies,  tulips,  and  other  suitable 
flowers.  Dainty  baskets,  made  of  spun 
sugar,  and  filled  with  ices,  in  the  form 
of  cherries,  currants,  and  other  small 
fruits,  also  find  favor  in  the  feminine  eye. 

Fresh  strawberries  —  the  stems  and 
tiny  green  leaves  being  allowed  to  re- 
main—  frozen  in  a  clear  ice,  flavored 
with  rose,  orange,  or  pistachio,  are 
dainty  to  serve  at  the  strawberry 
luncheon.  At  this  function,  the  glory 
of  the  table  is  the  large  basket  of 
crimson  berries,  with  their  hulls  on, 
garnished  with  their  own  leaves,  and, 
if  possible,  blossoms. 


AT  HIS  OLD  TRICKS. 

By  Kate  M.  Post. 

(  Written  for  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine.) 


I  taught  her  how  to  sweep  a  room, 
And  how  to  broil  and  bake, 

She  could  not  even  steep  the  tea 
Or  turn  a  griddle-cake. 

I  taught  her  how  to  make  the  beds, 

The  silver  polish  bright, 
And  have  the  linen  always  look 

Quite  spotless,  pure,  and  white. 

She  wasted  butter,  eggs,  and  flour, 
More  things  than  I  could  tell, 


And  tried  my  patience  every  day 
Still,  she  was  learning  well. 

Now  she  a  treasure  surely  is, 
Bright,  thrifty,  clean,  and  neat. 

All  this  Tom  Bryan  has  found  out ; 
He's  postman  on  our  street. 

To-morrow  she's  to  marry  Tom  ;  — 
I've  known  such  things  before  ; 

'Twas  just  like  one  of  Cupid's  tricks, 
To  steal  in  our  back  door. 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 

CHINA. 
By  George  W.  Barber. 


This  name  brings  to  mind  such  ar- 
ticles, both  useful  and  ornamental,  as 
we  possess  in  our  homes ;  but  have 
you  ever  stopped  to  consider  how 
many    countries    have    contributed    to 


CHOCOLATE   P01 


"RENCH.) 


your  comfort,  or  how  many  years  it 
has  taken  to  produce  such  perfect  ob- 
jects ? 

Xow  that  so    much  decorative  work 
on  china  is  being  done  by  the  women 


of  this  country,  a  little  insight  into 
some  of  the  facts  heretofore  known 
only  to  connoisseurs  or  pottery  experts 
may  prove  both  instructive  and  inter- 
esting to  the  readers  of  this  magazine. 
To  the  country  of 
China  justly  belongs 
this  name,  for  cer- 
tainly pottery  was 
produced  there  as 
early  as  2697  b.  c. 
To  trace  the  gradual 
rise  of  this  art  in 
the  different  coun- 
tries would  surely 
require  more  space 
than  can  possibly  be 
allowed  in  one  mag- 
azine. We  will  con- 
tine  ourselves  espe- 
ially  to  the  makers 
and  wares  of  recent 
date. 

At  the  outset  we 
might  classify  the 
different  grades  of 
potter}-  as  fol- 
lows :  — 

Pottery . — Any- 
thing made  of  clay. 
China  or  Porce- 
lain. Hard  or  Soft. 
—  Both  semi-trans- 
lucent. 

E  a  rthenware.  — 
All  glazed  ware  not  translucent. 

Faience.  —  Earthenware    with    an 
opaque  enamel. 

Majolica.  —  Earthenware  with  a  col- 
ored glaze. 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL    MAGAZIXE. 


: 


Biscuit.  —  The  ware  before  it  is 
glazed. 

Clay  alone  is  by  no  means  the  sole 
ingredient  of  pottery.  Hard  porce- 
lain, in  the  simplest  form,  contains 
china  clay  and  china  stone.  Nature 
has  decomposed  the  material ;  lire  re- 
stores its  lost  properties.  Other  va- 
rieties require  several  ingredients  :  — 

Ball  Clay.  —  To  give 
plasticity,  and  used  as  a 
base. 

Flint.  —  To  whiten  and 
make  porous. 

Felspar.  —  To  close  the 
pores,  like  a  glue. 

Bones  or  Phosphate  of 
Litne. — To  increase  trans- 
lucency. 

To  know  just  how  to 
mix  these  requires  a  skil- 
ful potter  :  and,  besides,  it 
is  most  important  to  have 
the  proper  clay.  Unfor- 
tunately, Uncle  Sam  has 
not  in  his  possessions 
abundance  of  clay  fit  to 
produce  the  popular  thin 
china ;  as  it  is.  however, 
found  in  abundance  in 
France  or  Germany,  much 
of  the  so-called  semi-por- 
celain, made  in  America, 
does  not  compare  with 
the  English  as  regards 
durability. 

Every  week,  hundreds  of  casks  of 
china  clay  are  imported  from  Eng- 
land ;  but  more  clay  is  used  in  the 
adulteration  of  fabrics  than  in  the 
manufacture  of  genuine  porcelain. 

Imagine  the  potter  has  fashioned 
some  article  for  our  table ;  let  us  trace 
the  necessary  steps  until  it  is  ready 
for  use. 


The  tiring  of  the  "  green  "  clay  lasts 
about  forty-eight  hours,  at  a  heat  of 
3.0000  Fahr.  Then  it  is  in  the  ••bis- 
cuit" state,  much  harder,  we  trust, 
than  the  new  cook's  article  by  that 
name.  Now  it  is  ready  for  the  gl 
or  for  under-glaze.  decoration.  Cop- 
per-plate is  extensively  used  for  one- 
color  printing,  the  design  being  printed 


f^> 


on  tissue  paper  and  pasted  in  the  re- 
quired position  and  rubbed  with  flan- 
nel until  it  adheres  properly.  This 
paper  is  soaked  oft  by  water,  when  the 
color  remains  on  the  ••biscuit,"  and  is 
then  ready  for  the  glazing.  The  sec- 
ond firing  lasts  about  twenty-four  hours. 
This  glaze  is  a  specially  prepared  glass, 
ground  line  in  water.    High-color  deco- 


8 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


rations  were  formerly  done  entirely  by 
filling  in  these  printed  designs  by  hand. 
Now.  much  transfer  or  lithograph  work 
is  being  done,  which  is  more  perfect 
and  uniform  than  that  obtained  by  the 
hand-filled  process. 

Illustrations  of  three  beautiful  speci- 
mens of  china  are  presented.  Two 
were  made  in  France,  —  the  tall  choco- 
late pot,  richly  decorated  with  the  finest 
encrusted  °r>ld.  and  the  smaller  mocha 


land,  Doultons,  Royal  Worcester,  Caul- 
don,   Crown  Derby. 

France  sends  a  goodly  part  of  her 
product  to  our  shores,  Americans  being 
particularly  fond  of  the  fragile  goods  ; 
while  our  English  cousins  use  more  of 
the  heavier,  and  more  durable,  "bone  " 
china.  Poterat  undoubtedly  made  the 
first  china  in  France  about  1673,  but 
to  Palissy  belong  the  greatest  honors. 
His  struggle  with  the  direst  poverty  to 


TEAPOT.     ANTIQUE  SHAPE.     (WEDGWOOD.) 


pot,  in  old  ivory  tint,  with  a  new  holly 
decoration.  The  low.  antique-shaped 
teapot  is  made  at  the  famous  ,(  Wedg- 
wood "  factory. 

To  Josiah  Wedgwood,  England  owes 
much  for  the  success  of  her  pottery. 
Especially  is  he  noted  by  his  famous 
'Jasper"  ware,  commonly  known  as 
"Wedgwood."  These  exquisite  cam- 
eos, on  a  background  of  royal  blue, 
he  modelled  as  far  back  as  1777,  and 
they  have  never  lost  in  popularity. 

Prominent  among  the  English  pot- 
teries, we  will  mention   Minton,  Cope- 


reach  his  great  fame  is  a  most  interest- 
ing story. 

The  famous  "  Sevres "  factory  was 
built  in  1756.  When  kaolin  was  dis- 
covered in  France,  near  Limoges,  it 
led  to  the  establishment  of  several 
factories.  Prominent  in  this  country 
is  the  name  of  Haviland,  who  was  a 
New  York  importer  of  English  goods 
up  to  1839,  when  he  discovered  a 
beautiful  piece  of  enamelled  faience, 
and,  finding  it  came  from  France, 
started  his  business  in  a  modest 
manner. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


IMPORTANCE  OF  DOMESTIC  AND  INDUSTRIAL  TRAINING* 

By  Mrs.  John  A.  Logan. 


Since  the  passage  of  the  law  estab- 
lishing public  schools  in  the  United 
States,  every  state  in  the  Union  has, 
from  time  to  time,  added  branch  after 
brance  to  its  curriculum,  until  every 
system  of  public  school  has  nearly 
reached  the  dignity  of  a  university,  in 
the  multiplicity  of  studies  pursued  by 
the  pupils  who  go  through  the  graded 
schools  and  graduate  at  the  high 
school.  While  this  is  a  blessing,  in 
many  senses,  to  the  nation,  are  we  not 
gradually  drifting  into  the  channel  of 
over-education,  at  the  expense  of  physi- 
cal culture  and  industrial  training  ? 
Every  year  numbers  of  young  men  and 
women  are  being  graduated  at  high 
schools,  and  even  colleges,  who  are  ab- 
solutely untrained  in  any  practical 
branch  of  domestic  economy  or  indus- 
trial pursuit. 

Naturally,  their  attainments  make 
them  discontented  with  any  menial 
work.  They  scorn  the  vocations  of 
their  parents,  who  have  sacrificed  every- 
thing and  dedicated  their  lives  to  their 
support,  while  their  children  were  ac- 
quiring an  education,  which  practically 
unfitted  them  for  earning  a  living  by 
the  sweat  of  their  brows. 

If  we  were  a  little  more  practical, 
and  combined  utilitarian  forces  with 
intellectual,  we  would  be  far  wiser 
in  our  provision  for  the  masses.  Re- 
cently educators  have  begun  to  realize 
the  importance  of  this  fact,  and  in 
many  places  manual  training  and  in- 
dustrial departments  have  been  incor- 
porated into  the  public  schools,  both 
for  boys  and   girls.      If  these   depart- 


ments might  take  the  place  of  lan- 
guages and  some  of  the  higher 
branches,  it  would  be  better  still,  and 
tax  the  growing  children  much  less. 

Mrs.  Lew  Wallace  has  written  but 
recently,  in  the  Ladies'  Home  Journal, 
a  very  able  article  on  the  subject  of 
over-education,  which  should  be  read 
by  all  parents  and  guardians.  Evi- 
dently we  should  make  domestic  and 
manual  training  more  important,  as  the 
bread-winners  and  home-makers  of  the 
future  compose  the  large  majority  of 
the  pupils.  A  boy  who  gets  his  first 
lesson  in  mechanics  in  school  is  sure 
to  be  the  most  expert  mechanic,  when 
he  has  grown  older  and  begun  the  vo- 
cation he  has  chosen  for  his  life  work. 
The  girl  who  is  well  trained  in  domes- 
tic economy,  and  taught  the  principles 
of  chemistry  that  enter  into  the  prepa- 
ration of  food,  will  make  the  best  wife 
and  mother,  and  be  what  woman  was 
intended  to  be,  —  a  helpmate  instead 
of  a  burden  to  her  future  husband. 

For  a  long  time  the  education  of 
girls  tended  to  influence  them  in  the 
direction  of  contempt  for  domestic 
work.  As  soon  as  they  had  "  fin- 
ished school,"  they  made  every  effort 
to  get  something  to  do  outside  of  the 
home;  sought  positions  as  cash-girls, 
saleswomen  —  anything,  rather  than 
"household  drudgery,"  as  they  were 
pleased  to  term  cooking,  cleaning,  sew- 
ing, and  making  the  home  attractive, 
and  the  meals  enjoyable,  for  weary  fa- 
thers and  brothers,  who  were,  perhaps, 
the  sole  support  of  large  families.  Nine 
times  out  of  ten,  the  pittance  these  girls 


IO 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


received  per  week,  for  eight  or  ten  long, 
weary  hours  out  of  each  day,  was 
scarcely  enough  to  keep  them  in  suit- 
able wearing  apparel.  In  the  mean 
time,  they  were  being  demoralized  and 
made  more  discontented  with  life. 
Whereas,  if  they  had  remained  at 
home,  or  secured  employment  as  do- 
mestics, and  put  half  the  energy  into 
their  efforts  to  make  much  out  of  a 
little. —  studied  the  art  of  cooking  and 
economy  in  its  true  sense.  —  they 
would  have  had  more  money,  and,  at 
the  same  time,  been  shielded  from  the 
whips  and  scorns  of  the  world.  —  inevi- 
table lot  of  all  who  find  themselves  in 
the  ever-swelling  army  of  bread-win- 
ners. 

We  have  noticed,  with  pleasure,  that 
the  classes  in  domestic  economy,  in  the 
public  schools  of  Washington,  at  the 
end  of  the  term,  have  been  able  to 
cook  and  serve  dinners  in  courses  for 
distinguished  invited  guests,  who  are 
to  pass  upon  the  merits  of  the  dishes 
set  before  them.  These  girls  have 
been  taught  to  cook  properly  the  in- 
dispensable staples  of  life,  and  to  make 
out  of  the  simplest  supplies  delicious 
dishes  that  do  good  and  not  evil  to 
those  who  eat  them. 

It  would  be  impossible  to  estimate 
the  far-reaching  benefits  of  this  knowl- 
edge to  the  race.  First,  economic 
knowledge  goes  far  toward  increasing 
the  pleasure  and  comfort  to  be  derived 
from  meagre  supplies,  if  these  be  well 
cooked  and  properly  served.  Next,  the 
effect  upon  the  health  and  spirits  of 
every  household  would  be  a  marvelous 
gain.  Ill  health  and  vicious  tempers 
result  from  bad  digestion,  occasioned 
by  illy  -  prepared  food,  far  more  fre- 
quently than  we  care  to  admit.  Black 
and   sour  bread  may  be  palatable  and 


wholesome  to  Europeans,  who  live  al- 
together differently  from  Americans. 
The  laborer  who  leaves  home  in  the 
early  morning,  after  an  ill  -  cooked 
breakfast,  and  carries  in  his  basket 
soggy  bread  and  tough  meat  for  his 
luncheon,  is  apt  to  return  at  night 
tired  and  cross;  not  unfrequently  he 
tries,  en  route,  to  cure  his  discomfort 
at  a  neighboring  saloon,  especially 
when  he  knows  he  will  find  his  din- 
ner as  uninviting  as  were  his  breakfast 
and  luncheon. 

The  wife  or  mother  who  tries  to  pre- 
pare tempting  meals  for  her  family,  and 
often  surprises  them  with  luxuries  born 
of  her  knowledge  of  cuisine,  accom- 
plishes far  more,  in  the  direction  of 
human  welfare  and  happiness,  and 
consequently  in  the  betterment  of  the 
world,  than  if  she  had  presided  suc- 
cessfully over  innumerable  societies,  or 
collected  thousands  for  the  conversion 
of  the  heathen  in  foreign  lands.  In 
this  enlightened  country  each  woman 
is  responsible  for  one  home,  at  least. 
In  so  far  as  she  wisely  or  unwisely 
discharges  that  duty  will  she  have  her 
reward. 

We  would  not  underestimate  edu- 
cational opportunities,  or  the  opening 
of  avenues  for  women  to  the  highest 
places ;  we  are  proud  of  the  attain- 
ments of  our  sex ;  but  we  deplore  any 
influences  or  opportunities  that  belit- 
tle domestic  duties,  or  debar  the  mak- 
ing of  homes,  as  provided  by  divine 
decree.  We  maintain  that  it  is  the 
duty  of  educators  and  teachers,  to  ex- 
alt the  homelier  duties  of  life,  and  to 
encourage  a  steady  adherence  to  the 
establishment  of  homes  by  the  united 
efforts  of   men  and  women. 

But  recently  a  young  woman  of 
eighteen  applied  to  me  to   aid  her  in 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


I  I 


securing  a  situation.  I  began  to  ques- 
tion her  about  what  she  was  qualified 
to  do,  and  found  she  was  a  graduate 
of  the  high  school,  but  knew  nothing 
whatever  about  household  work.  She 
could  not  make  her  own  clothes.  Her 
father  was  a  clerk  under  the  govern- 
ment, with  a  salary  of  fourteen  hun- 
dred dollars.  She  had  been  brought 
up  without  being  required  to  take  any 
part  in  the  domestic  duties  necessary 
in  every  family.  After  graduating,  she 
wanted  a  clerkship  in  some  department 
or  store,  or  to  travel  as  a  companion, 
etc.  I  suggested  to  her  that  if  she 
would  go  to  work  and  learn  to  keep 
house,  and  to  cook  the  meals  for  the 
family,  and  thereby  be  able  to  dismiss 
inefficient  servants,  and  establish  econ- 
omy in  the  expenditures  of  the  house- 
hold, she  would  help  her  father  more 
than  she  could  do  in  any  other  way, 
and  save  more  money  out  of  her  father's 
salary  than  she  could  possibly  earn  ; 
besides,  she  would  have  the  pleasure 
of  being  in  her  own  home,  and  under 
the  protecting  care  of  those  who  loved 
her  best. 

The   spirit  of  independence  in  most 
Americans    is    oftentimes    erroneously 


applied.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  there  is 
no  such  thing  as  individual  independ- 
ence. Every  human  soul  is  dependent, 
in  some  way,  upon  another ;  and,  when 
young  people  are  discontented  with 
their  homes,  and  wish  to  shake  off 
parental  restraint  and  care,  they  do  not 
realize  that  the  fault  lies  chiefly  in 
themselves,  in  that  they  do  not  share 
in  the  work  that  would  lighten  the  bur- 
dens of  their  parents.  They  fail  to 
realize  that  to  be,  in  any  sense,  inde- 
pendent means  incessant  labor,  vexa- 
tion of  spirit,  and  ills  of  which  they 
never  dreamed  while  under  the  parental 
roof. 

Encourage  our  young  women  to  ex- 
cel in  all  the  arts  of  cooking,  cleaning, 
and  home-making,  and  our  young  men 
to  be  proficient  in  the  mechanical  arts, 
as  well  as  in  other  callings  and  profes- 
sions, and  to  be  proud  of  the  homes 
to  which,  in  their  spare  moments,  they 
have  added  comforts  and  conveniences 
with  their  own  hands,  and  Americans 
will  have  no  occasion  to  tremble  for 
the  future  of  the  great  Republic.  Well- 
ordered  homes  are  the  true  safeguards 
of  a  nation.  Men  will  do  and  die  for 
their  homes  and  their  firesides. 


CAMPING  IN  A  DESERTED  HOUSE. 

By  Marion  A.  Manxhester. 


In  an  old-time  novel,  called  "  Mar- 
riage," by  Miss  Ferrier,  the  heroine 
says  that  she  would  "like  a  wilder- 
ness, if  it  were  full  of  roses  and  good 
society." 

Now,  for  those  whose  summer  de- 
light is  in  a  large  hotel,  the  piazzas 
thronged  by  day,  and  the  ballroom  by 


night,  our  little  '-camp  in  a  deserted 
house"  would  be  a  wilderness.  Here 
let  me  say,  however,  that  the  pink 
sweetbrier,  mingling  with  the  gray 
rocks  upon  the  shore,  the  wealth  of 
fragrant  lilies  that  cover  and  reflect 
their  own  beauty  in  the  lake  that  lies  un- 
der the  shadow  of  grand  old  Kearsarge, 


12 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


the  fragrant  pyrola  and  spiraeas  in  the 
deep  wood,  the  orris-scented  pogonia 
that  dots  with  pink  and  purple  the 
meadow  and  the  bog,  —  these  are  all 
the  " roses"  that  we  care  for. 

And  the  saucy  little  chipmunk  that 
eats  his  luncheon  of  nuts  or  stolen  dain- 
ties from  the  house  upon  your  door- 
step, the  rooks  and  jays  that  sail 
through  the  morning  air,  and  the  dear 
little  white-throated  sparrow  (the  Pea- 
body  bird),  that  sings  its  twilight  flute- 
song  when  the  gorgeous  sun  is  going 
down  behind  the  mountains,  —  what 
better  "good  society"  than  these? 

The  State  of  New  Hampshire  is  said 
to  be  full  of  abandoned  farms ;  there 
are  many  also  in  our  own  State  of 
Massachusetts.  Our  own  experiment 
was  simply  in  making  habitable  one 
of  these  old  deserted  houses,  adding, 
from  year  to  year,  just  enough  for 
comfort  (and  it  is  astonishing  how  lit- 
tle is  absolutely  necessary  for  comfort 
in  a  summer  camp).  One  may  live  in 
the  most  primitive  fashion,  as  in  a  tent; 
but,  by  transferring  this  simplicity  to  an 
old  house,  one  secures  not  only  freedom 
of  motion,  but  complete  protection  from 
the  weather.  Sixteen  summers  have 
not  lessened  the  charm  or  abated  the 
sense  of  rest  and  peace  in  this  quiet 
spot.  And  how  the  ills,  the  heritage 
of  our  New  England  winter,  vanish 
after  the  first  few  days  of  this  taste 
of  savage  life  !  "  There's  iron  in  our 
northern  winds,  our  pines  are  trees  of 
healing,"  wrote  Whittier,  whose  grand 
soul  was  filled  with  the  majesty  of 
mountains.  The  pure,  bracing  air,  the 
gentle  row  upon  the  lake,  the  tramp 
through  the  woods  for  ferns  and  flow- 
ers, the  climb  up  the  rugged  moun- 
tain, furnish  an  appetite  little  known 
in  city  homes ;  here  every  dish  has  its 
special  sauce. 


Two  things  are  absolutely  necessary 
to  the  enjoyment  of  this  sort  of  life : 
one,  a  contented  mind  that  can  with- 
stand the  sacrifice  of  some  of  the  every- 
day advantages  and  comforts  of  the 
city ;  the  other,  not  only  a  love  for,  but 
perfect  sympathy  with,  Nature  in  all 
her  moods. 

There  are  some  who  do  not  care  to 
take  into  their  vacation  the  care  of 
housekeeping.  For  these,  if  not  will- 
ing to  reduce  their  cares  to  a  minimum 
and  to  divide  responsibilities  among 
the  individuals  of  the  family,  there  re- 
mains the  country  boarding-house  ;  but 
the  independence  of  others'  rules  and 
style  of  living  is  not  there.  The  tramp 
to  the  mountain  stream,  the  angling 
for  the  wary  trout,  the  luncheon  by 
the  brookside,  with  a  delicious  cup  of 
coffee  of  one's  own  making,  the  saun- 
tering homeward  when  one  wills,  with 
well-filled  creels  and  to  the  music  of 
the  cowbells,  and  the  choosing  of  our 
own  tea  hour, — these  delights  must  be 
foregone. 

Some  friends,  wishing  to  try  our  ex- 
periment, found  that  their  efforts  at 
primitive  housekeeping  were  more 
than  compensated  by  the  delights 
and  freedom  of  their  recreation  ;  they 
found,  also,  that  the  farmer's  wife,  liv- 
ing a  mile  distant,  not  only  could  sup- 
ply their  table  with  butter  and  eggs, 
but  also  would  make  their  bread  and 
pastry  and  do  their  laundry  work  at 
her  own  home. 

No  doubt  all  have  read  with  de- 
light Kate  Sanborn's  "Adopting  an 
Abandoned  Farm,"  and  lamented  over 
the  unfortunate  sequel ;  but  hers  was 
an  experiment  for  life,  ours,  only  for  a 
summer  outing. 

One  is  surprised  at  the  economy  in 
wearing  apparel  that  can  be  practised, 
if  desirable.     Garments  that  have  been 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


13 


discarded  for  shabbiness  are  quite  re- 
spectable, when  doing  service  in  the 
woods  and  on  mountain  roads. 

But,  you  say,  the  sun  does  not  always 
shine,  even  in  the  country ;  how  is  it 
with  the  "  days  that  are  dark  and 
dreary "  ?  The  rainy  day  brings  its 
own  diversion.  To  the  men  and  boys 
of  the  family,  fishing  is  a  source  of 
fascinating  recreation.  Clad  in  water- 
proof garments,  the  maidens  may  sally 
forth  for  a  trial  of  their  skill,  too  ;  or, 
if  they  are  not  strong  enough  to  brave 
exposure,  at  first,  there  are  games  in- 
doors,—  cards  and  checkers  ;  or  there 
is  embroidery  or  reading  by  the  open 
wood  fire,  and,  best  of  all,  gazing, 
at  times,  upon  the  mountain  range, 
now  partly  covered,  now  wholly  so, 
with  the  strange  mist  that  lifts  one 
far  up  toward  heaven,  like  the  Alpine 
heights  of  another  clime.  After  the 
rain,  we  watch  the  magnificent  cloud- 
and-mist  effects  upon  and  around  the 
mountains,  and  every  time  it  seems 
more  wondrous  than  before. 

And  with  what  a  zest  one  comes 
back  to  the  cares  of  the  city  home  — 


humdrum  and  laborious  though  they 
be  —  because  of  the  refreshment  to 
body  and  soul  attained  under  the  exhil- 
arating influences  of  simple  woodland 
life !  One  sees  men  and  things  from  a 
broader  point  of  view,  having  learned  to 
measure  them  not  by  themselves,  but  by 
an  insight  into  a  clearer,  deeper  world. 

Within  the  last  ten  or  fifteen  years 
there  has  been,  I  am  sure,  a  growing 
preference  for  this  sort  of  vacation, 
particularly  among  those  who  are  not 
altogether  satisfied  with  hotel  life,  es- 
pecially for  children,  and  who  have  a 
desire  for  a  more  independent  life  than 
can  be  had  under  any  roof  but  one's 
own. 

Of  course,  regardless  of  expense, 
this  plan  can  be  elaborated  to  any 
extent.  Furnished  houses  are  offered 
for  rent  in  many  delightful  mountain 
regions  ;  but  the  thought  of  chief  con- 
cern lies  in  the  fact  "  that  it  is  within 
the  means,  even  of  those  who  must 
count  the  cost,"  to  derive  a  great  deal 
of  never-to-be-forgotten  enjoyment,  by 
the  simple  yet  novel  experience  of 
"  camping  in  a  deserted  house." 


ABOUT  SALADS. 

By  Annie  Pauline  Doughty. 


Primarily,  the  term  "salad"  was  a 
name  given  to  raw  herbs  used  as  a 
relish  ;  it  literally  means  salted.  From 
an  early  date,  oil  and  vinegar  have 
been  used  for  salad  dressing,  seasoned 
with  various  condiments  and  spices, 
according  to  the  standard  of  taste  in 
different  ages.  At  the  present  time,  a 
salad  may  be  compounded  of  a  great 
variety  of  materials,  and  may  properly 


be  defined  as  a  "  delectable  conglom- 
erate of  good  things." 

A  salad  is  appropriate  at  all  times 
and  seasons ;  it  may  give  zest  to  a 
morning  meal,  furnish  the  principal 
dish  at  a  mid-day  lunch,  or,  in  its 
simplest  form,  accompany  a  hearty 
dinner. 

For  a  salad  the  requirements  are 
small,    the    sources    of   supply   almost 


14 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


infinite,  and  from  my  lady's  skilful  fin- 
gers it  appears  upon  the  table  a  most 
inviting  dish,  —  a  feast  for  the  eye  as 
well  as  for  the  palate.  As  Sidney 
Smith  wrote,  — 

"  O  herbaceous  treat ! 
'Twould  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat ; 
Back  to  the  world  he'd  turn  his  weary  soul 
And  plunge  his  fingers  in  the  salad  bowl." 

Ancient  historians  make  frequent 
mention  of  salads  as  being  held  in 
high  esteem  among  table  delicacies. 
Lettuce  seems  always  to  have  been  a 
cultivated  plant ;  it  was  eaten  by  the 
Jews  at  the  Paschal  feast.  The  home- 
sick Israelites,  while  wandering  in  the 
desert,  longed  for  "  the  cucumbers  and 
melons,  the  leeks  and  onions,  of  Egypt." 
The  Greeks  served  green  salads  with  oil 
and  honey  at  the  close  of  a  meal ; 
while  among  the  Romans,  olives  and 
a  favorite  dish  of  lettuce  and  eggs, 
dressed  with  oil  and  spices,  were  pre- 
sented in  the  first  course.  Virgil  sings 
praises  of  the  salad,  and  Shakespeare 
bears  witness  to  the  high  appreciation 
in  which  it  was  held  in  his  day.  To- 
day, most  deservedly  its  use  is  increas- 
ing in  popularity  and  favor,  and  in  some 
form  it  may  well  be  served  almost 
daily  throughout  the  year.  It  is  re- 
freshing without  exciting  ;  it  is  both 
cooling  and  appetizing  to  the  system. 

In  the  preparation  of  salads,  the 
variety  of  green  things  from  which  to 
select  is  quite  endless.  Fruits,  salad 
plants,  and  green  vegetables  are  not 
especially  valuable  because  of  their 
nutritious  qualities,  but  for  the  acids 
and  sugars,  the  medicinal  and  saline 
juices,  which  they  contain.  The  value 
of  an  aliment  cannot  be  measured  al- 
ways by  the  amount  of  nutriment  it 
contains ;  so  that,  although  green  veg- 
etables would  not  sustain  life  continu- 


ously if  eaten  alone,  still  they  are 
essential  and  agreeable  adjuncts  to 
a  diet  for  the  flavor  and  relish  they  im- 
part to  other  foods. 

Water  constitutes  about  three-fourths 
the  entire  weight  of  the  body.  This  is 
being  eliminated  continually  from  the 
system  and  it  must  be  replaced  by  that 
which  is  partaken  in  food  and  drink. 
The  succulent  fruits  and  vegetables 
are  grateful,  at  once,  to  the  palate  in 
quenching  thirst,  and  they  also  intro- 
duce into  the  system  large  quantities 
of  water  in  its  purest  form.  They 
serve  again  to  give  bulk  to  food,  to 
stimulate  the  appetite,  and  aid  materi- 
ally in  the  processes  of  digestion  and 
assimilation. 

The  complicated  human  machine, 
like  all  other  machinery,  needs  lubri- 
cating with  oil  of  some  kind.  Now, 
while,  chemically,  fats  and  oils  do  not 
differ  much  in  composition,  the  fixed 
oils  of  animal  fats  and  nuts  are  diffi- 
cult of  digestion  and  tend  to  thin  the 
blood.  Good,  sweet,  fresh  butter  is 
both  wholesome  and  digestible,  and  is 
the  most  palatable  of  all  fatty  matters 
used  for  food ;  but  its  digestibility  is 
greatly  impaired  by  cooking.  Of  all 
fatty  foods,  raw,  pure  olive  oil  is  the 
most  easily  digested;  and,  as  used  in 
the  preparation  of  salads,  it  is  intro- 
duced into  the  system  in  a  most  ac- 
ceptable manner.  It  is  healing,  sooth- 
ing, and  restful  to  the  digestive  organs ; 
it  satisfies  the  requirements  of  the 
body  as  a  heat  producer,  and  is  gen- 
erally beneficial. 

In  the  making  of  salads,  do  not,  at 
first,  attempt  too  much.  Simple  salads 
are  always  the  most  wholesome.  In 
all  combinations,  care  must  be  exer- 
cised that  the  materials  be  not  too 
many  or  too  diverse.     To  be  of   ser- 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


•5 


vice  in  salads,  green  vegetables  must 
be  washed  clean,  drained,  and  served 
fresh,  cool,  crisp  and  tender.  The 
dressing  should  be  added  when  the 
dish  is  ready  for  serving ;  for,  if  the 
ingredients  be  allowed  to  stand,  they 
become  wilted,  tough  and  flabby. 
Cold  cooked  vegetables,  on  the  con- 
trary, should  be  marinated,  separately, 
with  French  dressing  an  hour  before 
using,  and  then  combined  just  be- 
fore sending  to  the  table.  Fish  and 
meat  salads  are  properly  served  with 
mayonnaise ;  so  also  are  salads  of  to- 
mato and  celery.  The  green  salads 
are  usually  served  with  a  French  dress- 
ing. 

Poor  ingredients  will  not  make  a 
good  salad ;  furthermore,  the  secret  of 
success  lies  in  a  delicate  and  appropri- 
ate blending  of  materials,  and  in  one's 
artistic  taste  in  garnishing.  Small  left- 
overs, otherwise  of  no  value,  as  a  cup 
of  peas,  a  saucer  of  beans,  or  broken 
pieces  of  cooked  fish,  freed  from  skin 
and  bones,  may  form  the  basis  of  a 
delightful  salad. 

Flowers  are  often  used  for  garnish- 
ing, especially  the  nasturtiums.  By  a 
happy  combination  of  colors,  we  may 
appeal  to  the  eye,  while,  at  the  same 
time,  we  please  the  palate.  Arrange  a 
curly  mass  of  blanched  endive  in  a 
nest  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  border 
with  small  clusters  of  pungent  cress, 
and  you  will  have  a  "  symphony  "  in 
green. 

Rosy  apple  cups,  filled  with  nut 
meats  and  celery,  dressed  with  may- 
onnaise, garnished  with  curled  celery 
tips,  and  served  on  lettuce  leaves,  form 
a  pleasing  table  decoration  as  well  as 
a  gustatory  treat. 

Cucumber  cubes,  mounded  on  a  bed 
of  cress,  look  cool  and  inviting.     Rub- 


bing the  salad  fork,  or  bowl,  with  a 
clove  of  garlic  will  impart  just  the 
right  tone  to  a  vegetable  salad.  Or, 
prepare  a  chapon,  by  rubbing  a  small 
tip  cut  from  the  end  of  a  French  loaf 
with  a  clove  of  garlic  that  has  been 
dipped  in  salt,  and  place  it  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  salad  bowl  before  arranging 
the  salad. 

The  whole  tribe  of  edible  mush- 
rooms, which  rank  higher  in  nutritive 
properties  than  the  green  vegetables, 
according  to  their  individual  charac- 
teristics, may  most  acceptably  appear 
in  salads,  either  raw  or  cooked. 

The  sapid  fruits,  as  apple,  orange, 
grape-fruit,  and  banana,  with  sweet  or 
acid  dressings,  also  cheese  and  vari- 
ous nuts,  as  almond,  walnut,  and  co- 
coanut,  are  important  factors  in  the 
preparation  of  many  quaint  and  dainty 
salads. 

The  dressing  must  always  be  suited 
to  the  materials  used.  For  French 
dressing,  one-half  as  much  acid  as  oil, 
and  half  as  much  pepper  as  salt,  is 
the  usual  combination.  For  a  mayon- 
naise, paprica  is  the  favorite  condi- 
ment ;  tarragon  is  the  flavoring  that 
has  precedence. 

In  making  salads,  it  is  well  to  bear 
in  mind  the  Spanish  proverb,  "  A 
spendthrift  for  oil,  a  miser  for  vine- 
gar, a  counsellor  for  salt,  and  a  mad- 
man to  beat  it  up."  An  equal  portion 
of  heavy  cream,  whipped  and  added 
to  the  mayonnaise,  when  ready  to  use, 
renders  it  more  bland  and  agreeable 
to  many  palates. 

Little  folk,  hardly  graduated  from 
the  nursery,  will  enjoy  a  simple  salad 
of  finely  cut  celery,  shredded  heart  of 
crisp  lettuce,  or  tender  cooked  spinach, 
well  minced,  and  dressed  with  oil  and 
lemon    juice.     Supplying,    as    it    does, 


i6 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL   MAGAZIXE. 


mild  acid  with  a  nourishing  and  easily 
digested  fat,  it  will  be  found  very  good 
for  them. 

A  taste  for  the  simple  French  dress- 
ing should  be  cultivated.  Some  find 
any  use  of  oil  distasteful ;  for  these 
there  are  many  delicious,  cooked  dress- 
ings to  be  used  in  the  place  of  mayon- 
naise; instead  of  oil  and  vinegar,  use 
the  acid  alone,  or  use  cream,  and,  if 
agreeable,  a  little  sugar  also. 


Since  sugar,  which  is  the  most  valu- 
able product  in  fruit,  is  not  affected 
by  heat,  raw  fruits  are  wholesome 
when  perfectly  ripe ;  and  a  luscious 
fruit  salad  makes  a  far  more  whole- 
some dessert  than  the  customary  pud- 
ding or  pie.  With  Dame  Nature's 
lavish  supply  of  good  things  to  select 
from,  it  ought  not  to  be  difficult  to 
suit  the  taste  and  needs  of  the  most 
discriminating  palate. 


HOW    TO    FINISH    HARDWOOD    FLOORS. 


There  are  only  two  really  good 
methods  of  finishing  a  hardwood  floor, 
and  naturally  one  or  the  other  of  these 
is  generally  used.  Whichever  way  is 
followed,  the  floor  should  first  be  care- 
fully planed,  scraped,  and  sandpapered, 
then  filled  and  stained  the  desired 
color.  If  a  very  shiny  or  glossy  sur- 
face is  desired,  a  thin  coat  of  shellac 
is  put  on,  and  this  is  followed  by  one 
or  more  coats  of  varnish.  While  this 
makes  a  very  neat-looking  floor,  it  will 
not  keep  its  good  appearance  as  well 
as  a  floor  finished  by  the  shellac-and- 
wax  process.  On  the  floor  finished 
with  varnish,  scratches  and  heel  marks 
are  easily  made,  and  show  white. 

When  it  is  desired  to  freshen  up  this 
finish,  take  raw  linseed  oil  and  turpen- 
tine, equal  parts  of  each,  and  apply 
with  a  soft  cloth,  rubbing  off  with  a 
second  cloth  all  superfluous  oil.  This 
preparation  deadens  and  partially  fills 
the  scratches ;  it  also  removes  some 
dirt  that  is  not  affected  by  water. 

Hard  oil  finish,  which  is  composed 
principally  of  varnish,  is  sometimes 
used  instead  of  varnish;  but  there  is 
practically  no  difference  in  the  results 


obtained,  and  the  floor  thus  finished 
can  be  treated  in  the  same  manner  as 
where  a  simple  varnish  finish  is  used. 

In  the  second  method  of  finishing, 
instead  of  using  one  thin  coat  of  shel- 
lac, after  rilling  and  staining,  several 
coats  are  laid  on,  each  one  being  sand- 
papered a  little  before  the  next  is  ap- 
plied ;  then  a  coat  of  thin  prepared 
wax  is  laid.  This  is  in  form  of  a  li- 
quid, and  may  be  put  on  with  a  brush 
and  then  rubbed  off  with  a  cloth. 
This  process  gives  a  smooth  and  shiny 
floor,  but  not  §o  glossy  as  varnish,  and 
on  it  heel  marks  and  scratches  show 
very  little.  When  it  is  desirable  to 
renovate  this  finish,  put  on  another 
coat  of  the  wax,  rubbing  it  off  care- 
fully. If  the  floor  becomes  very  dirty 
and  perhaps  a  little  gummy,  wash  off 
with  turpentine ;  and.  after  all  the  wax 
and  dirt  have  been  removed,  down  to 
the  shellac,  put  on  a  new  coat  of  wax  in 
same  manner  as  at  the  first  treatment. 

In  washing  hardwood  floors,  do  not 
use  much  water.  It  is  better  for  the 
floor  to  wipe  it  completely  with  a  damp 
cloth  than  to  wash  it  freely  with  mop 
and  pail. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


17 


SELECTED  VERSE. 


O,  yet  we  trust  that  somehow  good 
Will  be  the  final  goal  of  ill  — 
To  pangs  of  nature,  sins  of  will, 

Defects  of  doubt,  and  taints  of  blood ; 

That  nothing  walks  with  aimless  feet ; 
That  not  one  life  shall  be  destroy'd, 
Or  cast  as  rubbish  to  the  void, 

When  God  hath  made  the  pile  complete ; 

That  not  a  worm  is  cloven  in  vain ; 

That  not  a  moth  with  vain  desire 

Is  shrivel'd  in  a  fruitless  fire, 
Or  but  subserves  another's  gain. 

—  In  Memoriam. 


THE    MASTER'S    TOUCH. 

In  the  still  air  the  music  lies  unheard  ; 

In  the  rough  marble  beauty  hides  unseen  : 
To  wake  the  music  and  the  beauty,  needs 

The    master's    touch,    the    sculptor's    chisel 
keen. 

Great  Master,  touch  us  with  Thy  skilful  hand, 
Let  not  the  music  that  is  in  us  die; 

Great  Sculptor,  hew  and  polish  us,  nor  let, 
Hidden  and  lost,  Thy  form  within  us  lie. 

Spare   not   the    stroke,  do   with  us   as    Thou 
wilt ; 
Let    there    be    nought   unfinished,    broken, 
marred ; 
Complete  Thy  purpose,  that  we  may  become 
Thy  perfect  image,  O  our  God  and  Lord. 

—  Bonar. 


"  LET    THERE    BE    LIGHT.' 

"  The  life  of  man,"  said  one  of  passing  ken, 

"  Is  like  a  sparrow's  flight 
Through  a  lit  hall  —  out  of  one  dark  again 

Into  another  night !  " 

Some  sit  at  feasts  with  myrtle  crowned  and 
rose, 

Some  toil  with  heavy  heart, 
Within  that  House  of  Life  whose  portals  close 

On  us,  who  thence  depart  — 

Go,  unaccompanied,  without  one  friend, 

Even  as  we  came,  alone, 
Blind,  dumb,  our  solitary  path  to  wend 

Into  the  dim  unknown. 


On  that  strange  journey  shall,  some  time,  some- 
where, 
We  mayhap  come  to  find 
Some  other  House  of  Life,  more  wide,  more 
fair, 
Than  this  we  leave  behind  ? 

Oh,    question    vain  I     Oh,    passionate    cry    of 
earth  ! 

To  which  the  brazen  sky, 
Since  our  small  world  from  chaos  had  its  birth, 

Has  never  made  reply  ! 

And  yet,  O  souls  unnumbered  as  the  sand 

Beside  the  eternal  sea, 
Who  took  your  flight  from  out  the  Father's 
hand 

That  fashioned  thee  and  me, 

Surely  our  faltering  course  cannot  go  far 

Through  that  dim  second  night, 
Ere  there  shall  cleave  the  darkness,  like  a  star, 

His  voice,  "  Let  there  be  light !  " 

—  Stuart  Sterne. 


PROBATION. 


Full  slow  to  part  with  her  best  gifts  is  Fate ; 
The  choicest  fruitage  comes  not  with  the  Spring, 
But  still  for  Summer's  mellowing  touch  must 

wait  — 
For  storms  and  tears,  which  seasoned  excellence 

bring ; 
And  Love  doth  fix  his  joyfulest  estate 
In  hearts  that  have  been  hushed  'neath  Sor- 
row's brooding  wing. 

— Florence  Earle  Coates. 


ASPIRATION. 


I  am  the  blush  of  the  summer  rose, 

The  flush  of  the  morn, 
The  smile  on  the  face  of  the  dead, 
The  song  newly  born 
From  heart  of  the  poet,  from  shell  of  the  sea, 
From  rush  of  the  river  that  oceanward  flows. 

I  am  immortal.     Who  knows  me  is  glad. 

Men  give  me  the  name 
Of  passions  that  kindle  the  soul  — 
Love,  faith,  beauty,  fame. 
I  dwell  with  all  these,  yet  am  higher  than  all. 
Without  me  the  angels  of  heaven  were  sad. 
—  Edith  Willis  Linn. 


iS 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


TLbc  Boston  Coofciw}*5cbool 
Corporation* 

Established  1879.  Incorporated  1882. 

School  :  372  Boylston  Street. 

BOARD  OE  MANAGERS,  1899. 

Mrs.  WM.  B.  SEWALL         -        -        -     President. 
Mrs.  STEPHEN   D.    BENNETT,   Vice-President. 


EXECUTIVE  COMMITTEE. 

Mrs.  WM.  B.  SEWALL, 

Miss  ELLEN  M.  CHANDLER, 
Mrs.  ELLIOTT  RUSSELL, 

Mrs.  MOORFIELD  STOREY, 

Mrs.  LANGDON  SHANNON  DAVIS, 
Mrs.  WALTER  CHANNING, 

Mrs.  WINSLOW  WARREN, 
Miss  MINNA   TRAIN, 

Mrs.  EVERETT   MORSS. 
Mrs.  G.  E.  NILES,  Treasurer. 
Mrs.  EVERETT  MORSS,  Secretary. 
Principal,   Miss  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER. 
.  Miss  CHARLOTTE  JAMES  WILLS. 
Assistants,  j  Misg  MARIA  w>  HOWARD. 

Ube  Boston  Goofein3=5cbool 
/Ifcagasine, 

Of  Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics. 

PUBLISHED   BIMONTHLY. 
OFFICIAL     JOURNAL     OF     THE     BOSTON 
COOKING-SCHOOL   CORPORATION. 
Editor's  Address  :  372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 
Publication  Office:  22  School  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 
JANET  MCKENZIE  HILL     -        -        -        Editor. 
JOHN  F.  SPOFFORD       -        -        -  Manager. 

ELLA   L.   BREED,    Advertising  Representative. 

Subscription   50   cts.    per    year.      Single    Copies 
10  cts. 

Advertising  rates  furnished  on  application. 

To  Subscribers. 

When  sending  notice  to  renew  subscription  or 
change  address,  please  give  the  old  address  as 
well  as  the  new. 

We  use  in  our  subscription  list  the  card  cata- 
logue system,  by  which  absolute  accuracy  is  se- 
cured ;  but  in  referring  to  an  original  entry  we 
must  know  the  name  as  it  was  formerH'  given, 
together  with  the  Postoffice,  County,  State,  Post- 
office  Box,  or  Street  Number. 

Entered  at  Boston  Postoffice  as  second-class 
matter. 


A  woman's  power  is  for  rule  and  not 
for  battle ;  her  intellect  is  for  sweet 
ordering,  arrangement,  and  decision. 
The  true  nature  of  a  home  is  a  place  of 
peace. — John  Ruskin. 


(~\&  another  page  of  this  magazine 
^-^  Mrs.  Logan  advocates  the  "  Im- 
portance of  Domestic  and  Industrial 
Training."  In  The  Epicure^  a  Lon- 
don journal,  we  find  a  paper  on 
"  Home  or  Factory,"  in  which  the 
writer  descants  upon  the  '-increasing 
tendency  amongst  mistresses  to  re- 
duce home  life,  or  rather  domestic 
machinery,  to  the  mechanical  routine 
and  discipline  of  a  factory." 

It  is  interesting  to  note  how  these 
topics  bear  upon  some  phase  of  the 
ever-important  and  world-wide  question 
—  the  preparation  and  dispensation  of 
food.  Our  English  writer  concedes 
that  "  we  might  with  advantage  intro- 
duce many  of  the  customs  and  a  good 
deal  of  the  exactitude  of  a  well-managed 
factory  into  our  households  ;  for  it  can- 
not be  denied  that  a  great  deal  of  the 
servant  question  and  its  difficulties  are 
due  to  the  slipshod  and  unpunctual 
method  of  housekeeping  only  too  com- 
mon." He  admits,  too,  that  "  co- 
operative cookery  is  a  subject  that  is 
beginning  to  take  a  prominent  place 
amongst  the  questions  discussed  by 
the  clever  and  foremost  women  of  the 
day;  and  certainly,  as  they  set  it  forth, 
it  is  enticing  enough.  No  further  cul- 
inary troubles  ;  no  more  frenzied  visits 
to  registries,  homes,  etc.,  in  search  of 
the  vara  avis,  '  the  good,  plain  cook ; ' 
no  more  half-hours  spent  in  trying  to 
instil  into  the  unreceptive  brain  of  an 
ex-kitchenmaid  the  intricacies  of  the 
range  '  that  won't  act.'  Certainly,  free- 
dom from  these  and  similar  small  wor- 
ries would  lift  a  good  deal  of  life's  bur- 
den off  the  shoulders  of  the  tired  house- 
mother; and,  indeed,  it  offers  a  prospect 
of  something  so  like  the  millennium  as 
to  be  pardonably  attractive  to  the  fe- 
male  mind   in    general,   since  women, 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


19 


taken  as  a  whole,  are  true  followers  of 
St.  Martha,  and  '  cumbered  with  much 
serving.' " 

After  much  more  of  similar  pur- 
port, the  writer  concludes  his  paper 
with  these  pertinent  inquiries,  —  inqui- 
ries that  may  be  suggestive  of  thought, 
perhaps,  to  the  readers  of  this  jour- 
nal :  — 

What  would  be  said  of  a  man  who  pleaded 
for  fresh  (and  in  his  eyes  more  important) 
work  on  the  plea  that  the  appointment  for 
which  he  had  been  destined,  and  had  himself 
chosen,  was  unpleasant  to  him,  and  one  he 
was  utterly  incapable  of  rilling  adequately  from 
his  own  neglect  and  ignorance?  Would  his 
request  be  considered  a  reasonable  one,  or  his 
arguments  valid,  by  his  fellow-men  ?  Well, 
then,  why  should  women  who  undertake  cer- 
tain (and  in  many  people's  eyes  most  sacred) 
duties  be  excused  for  shirking  their  work  and 
neglecting  their  manifest  responsibilities  be- 
cause they  think  other  employment  would  be 
individually  more  agreeable  to  them  ?  That 
all  women  should  marry  is  neither  needful  nor, 
indeed,  possible ;  but  why,  when  a  woman  does 
marry,  with  her  eyes  open,  she  should  at  once 
begin  to  cry  out  and  complain  over  the  restric- 
tions and  work  of  married  life,  and  expect 
everything  to  bend  and  give  way  before  her 
selfish  cravings  for  her  own  pleasure,  is  a 
point  common-sense  men  —  aye,  and  women, 
too  —  find  it  hard  to  fathom.  These  are  hard 
words,  but  it  is  time  some  one  spoke  out  frankly 
before  our  once-boasted  and  treasured  home 
life  disappears  from  amongst  us,  overborne  by 
the  stress  of  the  new  yet  old  doctrine,  —  one's 
self  first,  and  the  rest  of  the  universe  any- 
where. 


"  OCIENCE  in  the  Model  Kitchen" 
^  is  the  subject  of  an  article  in 
one  of  our  popular  magazines.  "  The 
first  room,"  says  the  writer,  "  in  the 
first  house  was  a  kitchen,  and  every 
other  room  is  its  adjunct."  From  the 
rude  ways  of  primitive  life  to  the  latest 
methods  even  in  culinary  affairs  cer- 
tainly is  a  great  transition. 

The  modern  kitchen,  in  the  highest 


stage  of  its  development,  is  like  the 
finished  and  well-equipped  laboratory. 
Located,  lighted,  and  ventilated  with  a 
view  to  cleanliness,  it  has  none  other 
than  attractive  features.  The  room  it- 
self has  a  vitrified-tile  floor,  laid  in 
cement ;  the  walls  are  tiled,  or  fin- 
ished with  enamelled  cement, — both 
are  made  waterproof,  and  impervious 
to  vermin.  In  well-appointed  kitchens 
there  are  two  ranges,  one  for  coal,  the 
other  for  gas.  Over  these  is  fitted  a 
capacious  hood,  to  carry  off  the  odors 
that  arise  from  cooking. 

These  scientific  kitchens  have  an 
appropriate  accompaniment  of  side- 
rooms,  including  store-room,  cold- 
storage  closet,  cupboards,  and  butler's 
pantry.  Every  foot  of  space  is  util- 
ized ;  all  plumbing  is  open,  leaving  no 
spot  where  dust  may  cling  or  hide. 
All  the  appliances  and  utensils,  of 
which  there  are  hundreds,  are  of 
nickelled,  polished-copper,  or  enam- 
elled ware.  At  present  many  of  these 
appliances  are  possible  only  in  the 
homes  of  the  rich  ;  but,  in  the  process 
of  time,  arrangements  identical  or  sim- 
ilar to  these  are  to  be  provided  for  the 
preparation  of  food  in  the  more  modest 
houses,  where,  on  account  of  fewer 
servants  kept,  they  are  most  needed. 

The  writer  concludes  her  interesting 
description  of  the  model  kitchen  with 
the  following  natural  and  timely  infer- 
ences :  — 

In  this  new  method  of  domestic  study,  the 
servant  problem  is  losing  some  of  its  horrors. 
When  the  proper  respect  for  the  feeding  of  a 
house  comes,  an  ignorant,  untaught  servant  is 
not  expected  to  be  an  expert  in  what  is  seen 
to  be  a  delicate  art.  A  chemist  is  not  ex- 
pected to  make  original  discoveries  and 
brilliant  experiments  before  he  learns  the 
commonest  rules,  yet  that  is  what  has  some- 
times been  expected  of  the  kitchen  chemist. 


20 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZIXE. 


In  these  days,  women  are  asking  that  their 
cooks  shall  have  been  educated,  and  where 
they  take  them  without  certified  qualifications 
they  see  that  the  opportunity  to  acquire  is 
given  to  them,  and  see,  too,  that  they  may 
perform  their  careful  work  without  undue  an- 
noyances and  trouble.  In  Xew  York  alone 
are  dozens  of  cooking -classes,  which  are 
attended  by  cooks  whose  mistresses  have  paid 
for  their  lessons. 

And  one  of  the  most  important  of  these 
lessons  is  the  care  of  the  new  kitchen — how 
to  prevent  the  wrong  sort  of  chemistry  going 
to  work  there ;  for  one  of  these  beautiful 
rooms,  these  laboratories  for  the  making  of 
good  food,  is  a  sorry  thing  in  incompetent 
hands. 


^FHE  Cosmopolitan  is  publishing  a 
A  series  of  excellent  articles  on 
"  The  Ideal  and  Practical  Organization 
of  a  Home."  In  the  May  issue  Dr. 
Denslow  presents  the  theory  of  house- 
hold economics  in  a  few  pointed  and 
striking  phrases.  "  Economy."'  he  says. 
"  includes  two  aims,  viz.,  whatever  in- 
creases income  and  whatever  dimin- 
ishes expenditure.  Diminution,  how- 
ever, in  expenditure  is  not  to  be  set 
down  as  truly  economic  when  it  takes 
a  form  which  tends  to  lose  more  than 
what  is  saved  is  worth.  '  There  is.' 
says  Solomon,  '  that  scattereth  and  yet 
increaseth.  and  there  be  that  with- 
holdeth  more  than  is  meet  and  it  yet 
tendeth  to  poverty.' 

■•  The  economics  of  life  must  always 
be  regarded  as  means  to  its  supreme 
object.  —  the  pursuit  of  happiness. 
Housekeeping  becomes  thoroughly 
practical  only  when  it  is  pursued  with 
high  ideals.  To  those  who  put  forth 
the  effort  and  adopt  the  system  essen- 
tial to  the  best  results,  it  ceases  to 
appear  a  struggle  or  a  sacrifice.  It  is 
a  passion  and  a  pleasure,  because  it  is. 
at  once,  a  perfect  home  and  a  happy 
environment.     To    those   who    scrimp 


the  effort  and  deny  the  system,  it  be- 
comes an  unflagging  toil,  like  that  of 
the  wanderer,  without  a  home  or  sweet 
fireside,  who 
1  Drags  at  each  remove  a  lengthening  chain.'  " 

This  is  admirably  put ;  it  is  indica- 
tive, as  well,  of  the  spirit  that  pervades 
the  new  movement  in  home-making. 
The  finest  products  of  modern  science 
and  art  are  constantly  increasing  the 
possibilities  of  more  perfect  homes. 
In  the  conduct  of  home  life,  our  great- 
est need,  it  would  seem,  lies  not  so 
much  in  sacrifice  of  self  as  in  the  per- 
sistent cultivation  of  a  more  altruistic 
spirit,  or  devotion  to  the  welfare  of 
others.  Thus  only  may  we  hope  to 
overcome  the  perplexing  difficulties 
that  beset  the  pathway  of  the  house- 
keeper. Zeal  and  organized  effort 
alone  suffice  to  render  even  doubtful 
enterprises  successful. 


It  would  really  seem  as  if  the  human 
race,  after  all  its  long  centuries,  had 
not  learned  how  to  prepare  good  food, 
nor  how  to  cook  it.  nor  how  to  eat  it. — 
which  is  painfully  true. 

Such  an  arrangement  of  our  lives 
and  of  our  houses  as  will  allow  cook- 
ing to  become  a  profession  is  the  only 
way  in  which  to  free  this  great  art 
from  its  present  limitations.  It  should 
be  a  reputable,  well-paid  profession, 
wherein  those  women  or  those  men 
who  were  adapted  to  this  form  of  labor 
could  become  cooks,  as  they  would  be- 
come composers  or  carpenters.  Natu- 
ral distinctions  would  be  developed 
between  the  mere  craftsman  and  the 
artist :  and  we  should  have  large,  new- 
avenues  of  lucrative  industry,  and  a 
new  basis  for  human  health  and  happi- 
ness.—  Charlotte  Perkins  Stetson. 


After=Breakfast  Chat. 


"  Practice  thy  spirit  to  great  thoughts  and  things." 

"  Each  forgot  his  weakness  and  went  and  worked  his  fragment. 


At  the  present  time  there  is  no  call- 
ing in  life  about  which  so  much  is  said 
and  written  as  that  of  housekeeping. 
This  is  not  only  because  it  is  the  busi- 
ness of  most  women  and  many  men, — 
though  at  times  it  would  seem  that 
women  were  trying  to  shirk  it,  —  but 
because  upon  its'  well-doing  depends 
the  well-doing  of  most  other  enterprises 
in  life.  Now,  although  there  are 
conspicuous  cases  of  good  manage- 
ment in  homes  scattered  throughout 
the  country,  there  is  doubtless  room 
for  improvement  all  along  the  line. 
"Reforms,"  it  is  said,  "began  at  the 
top,  revolutions  at  the  bottom."  It 
rests  with  the  men  and  women  of 
the  so-called  upper  classes,  whether 
raised  to  their  position  by  birth,  wealth, 
intellect,  education,  or  opportunity,  to 
work  out  in  the  best  way  a  satisfactory 
solution  of  the  vexed  questions  of  do- 
mestic science. 

We  have  in  mind  a  country  town, 
without  the  facilities  of  large  factories 
or  extensive  industries  to  provide  work 
for  its  inhabitants,  and  yet  no  one  there 
is  absolutely  poor.  The  little  plot  of 
ground  surrounding  the  house  of  the 
woman  who  takes  in  washing  is  kept 
as  closely  clipped,  and  the  path  that 
leads  to  her  door  as  neatly  trimmed,  as 
are  those  of  the  millionaire  who  lives 
on  the  hill.  Though  no  white-capped 
waitress  attends  the  tired  laundress  at 


her  meals,  yet  the  table,  covered  with 
snowy  cloth,  is  laid  in  a  cool,  inviting 
room,  thus  giving  a  few  moments  of 
change  and  relaxation  in  the  busy  day. 
The  woman  has  made  a  study  of  the 
matter,  and  knows  that  this  course 
pays  even  from  a  commercial  point  of 
view. 

In  this  town  an  open  drain,  or 
other  menace  to  public  health,  would 
appear  as  incongruous  in  the  street 
where  the  houses  of  busy  artisans  are 
located  as  in  the  more  pretentious  ave- 
nues where  the  mansions  of  the  "  Four 
Hundred "  are  situated.  This  result 
has  been  obtained  by  mutual  effort  and 
cooperation.  No  one  lives  to  himself 
alone. 

Jkit  this  matter  of  housekeeping  (in 
town  or  country)  is  many-sided.  One 
is  most  apt  to  make  it  a  success  who 
takes  a  comprehensive  view  of  the  sit- 
uation. The  woman  of  one  idea  and 
narrow  limitations  cannot  create  an 
ideal  home,  full  of  joy,  peace,  and  con- 
tentment. Neither  can  the  woman  who 
is  daunted  by  obstacles  hope  to  "  pos- 
sess the  land."  "  What  helped  you 
over  the  great  obstacles  of  life  ?  "  was 
asked  a  successful  man.  "  The  other 
obstacles,"  he  answered.  Even  defeats 
have  their  lessons,  if  we  would  but  take 
them  home  to  our  hearts  ;  and,  to  those 
who  strive  to  reach  the  goal,  all  failures 
are  swallowed  up  in  the  final  victory. 


22 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


ECONOMICAL  MENUS  FOR  ONE  WEEK  IN  JUNE. 

(Family  of  Three  Adults,  Light  Housekeeping.) 

There  is  nothing  insignificant,  nothing. — Coleridge. 


BREAKFAST. 

Grancse  Flakes,  Cream,  Sugar. 

Finnan  Haddie  a  la  Delmonico. 
Broiled  Potatoes.  Radishes. 

Dry  Toast.     Cereal  Coffee. 
DINNER. 
Broth  with  Marrow  Balls. 

Lamb  Chops,  Broiled. 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter. 

Riced  Potatoes.     New  String  Beans. 

Lettuce  Salad. 

Strawberries,  Cream. 

Sponge  Cake.  Cafe  Noir. 

SUFFER. 

Smoked  Salmon,  Toasted.      Olives. 

Brownbread  Sandwiches. 

Rhubarb  Baked  with  Raisins. 

Cake.     Cereal  Coffee. 


BREAKFAST. 

Barley  Crystals,  Sugar,  Cream. 

Soft-Boiled  Eggs. 

Radishes.  Potato  Cakes. 

Brownbread,  Toasted. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Steamed  Rice.     Welsh  Rarebit. 
Sliced  Pineapple.  Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Clam  Bouillon.      Sirloin  Steak. 

Summer  Squash,  Steamed. 

Potatoes,  Steamed. 

Asparagus  Salad. 

Sea-Moss  Blanc-mange. 

Strawberries,  Cream. 

Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Vitos,  with  Raisins,  Sugar,  Cream. 

Eggs  a  la  Cocotte.     Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Rye  Muffins.  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup,  Browned  Crackers. 

Smoked  Salmon.      Toasted  Muffins. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Clear  Broth.     Calf's-Liver  Loaf. 

New  Potatoes  with  Butter  and  Parsley. 

String  Beans,  Reheated. 

Watercress  Salad.   Cheese.   Pulled  Bread. 

Strawberry  Tapioca,  Cream. 

Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Barley  Crystals,  Moulded,  Sugar,  Cream. 

Dried  Beef,  Frizzled. 

Hashed  Potatoes,  White. 

Zwieback.  Cereal  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Lettuce-and-Egg  Salad. 

Entire-Wheat  Bread  and  Butter. 

Wafers.  Pineapple  Foam.  Tea. 

DINNER. 

Fricassee  of  Veal. 

Baking-Powder  Biscuit.     Boiled  Beets. 

Cress  Salad.      Cream  Cheese. 

Vanilla  Cream  Ice.  Strawberries. 

Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Wheatena,  Sugar,  Cream. 

Broiled  Tomatoes  on  Toast. 

Plain  Omelet. 

Quaker-Oats  Muffins. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Asparagus,  Drawn  Butter. 

Toasted  Muffins. 

Strawberries.  Cake.  Tea. 

DINNER. 
Beef  Broth,  with  Rice. 

Tenderloin  of  Steak. 
Baked  Mushrooms  on  Toast. 
Mashed  Potatoes.         Tomato  Salad. 
Hamburg  Cream.     Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Wheatena,  Sugar,  Cream. 

Hashed  Veal  on'Toast,  Broiled  Tomatoes, 

White  Sauce. 

Toasted  Biscuit.     Cereal  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Asparagus,  with  Poached  Eggs. 

Pulled  Bread. 

Bread  Pudding.         Tea. 

DINNER. 

Cream-of-Pea  Soup  (Canned  Peas). 

Kippered  Herrings. 

Boiled  Potatoes. 

Lettuce-and-Peppergrass  Salad. 

Strawberries  Moulded  in  Lemon  Jelly. 

Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Boiled  Rice,  Sugar,  Cream. 

Broiled  Tripe. 

Broiled  Potatoes. 

Baker's  Rolls,  Reheated. 

Cereal  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Lettuce,  Plain  Lobster, 

French  Dressing. 

Lemon  Sherbet,  with 

Ginger. 

Coffee. 


SUFFER. 

Salt  Codfish  in  Cream 

Sauce. 

Wheat-Meal  Muffins. 

Strawberries. 

Cream  Cheese. 

Cake.     Cereal  Coffee. 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


23 


SUGGESTIONS  IN  REFERENCE  TO  ECONOMICAL  MENUS 

AND  RECIPES. 


One  can  carry  on  what  is  known  as 
"  light  housekeeping  "  and  do  little  or 
much  cooking,  as  it  is  agreeable  or 
convenient.  Two  adults  can  live  com- 
fortably, even  sumptuously,  by  taking 
the  principal  meal,  or  dinner,  out,  with 
only  a  chafing-dish  and  its  accessories 
for  a  kitchen  outfit ;  but,  when  the 
family  is  enlarged  to  a  trio,  in  most 
cases  a  gas  or  an  oil  range  becomes  a 
necessity.  Several  appliances  that  fit 
a  single  burner  may  be  procured,  that 
will  be  servicable  in  cutting  down  the 
amount  of  fuel  used,  and  in  making 
the  work  lighter.  Among  these  may 
be  mentioned  a  small  portable  oven, 
an  upright  toaster,  composed'  of  wires 
running  round  and  round,  agate  sauce- 
pans of  such  shape  and  size  that  when 
put  together  on  their  straight  sides 
they  admit  two  articles  to  be  cooked 
separately  by  means  of  the  gas  re- 
quired for  one  dish.  With  a  steam 
cooker  of  several  compartments,  a 
meal  of  many  courses  can  be  cooked 
over  one  burner,  provided  the  various 
articles  are  to  be  steamed.  Where  a 
little  broiling  is  to  be  done,  if  access 
be  had  to  a  stove  connected  with  a 
chimney,  a  small-sized,  portable  char- 
coal stove,  or  broiler,  will  insure  the 
broiling  to  perfection  of  a  bit  of  steak, 
three  or  four  chops,  or  a  pair  of  sweet- 
breads, and  at  the  slightest  cost  of 
time  and  money. 

In  preparing  the  Sunday  breakfast, 
make  ready  the  finan-haddie  (a  cured 
fish,  haddock,  found  in  all  markets), 
heating,  in  the  mean  time,  the  tiny 
oven.  When  the  fish  is  ready  to  be 
browned,  set  it  in   the  oven,  also  the 


bread  for  toast,  and  use  the  toaster  for 
broiling  or  toasting  the  sliced  and  but- 
tered potatoes.  The  flakes  may  be 
simply  heated  in  the  oven  or  served 
cold.  If  the  weather  be  cool,  two 
pounds  from  a  hind  shin  of  beef 
may  be  purchased  Saturday,  which, 
with  the  trimmings  from  the  chops, 
will  provide  broth  for  Sunday  and 
Monday.  Bake  the  rhubarb  ancl  the 
raisins  for  supper  while  getting  the 
breakfast.  If  raisins  —  sultanas  are 
the  best  —  be  not  at  hand,  bits  of 
pineapple  or  an  orange  may  be  used. 
If  the  cooking  outfit  be  confined  to 
a  chafing-dish  and  an  oil  stove  with  a 
single  burner,  prepare  the  mock  bisque 
soup  in  the  chafing-dish  and  brown  the 
crackers  over  the  stove ;  then,  while 
the  muffins  are  toasting  over  the  stove, 
prepare  the  coffee  in  the  chafing-dish. 
At  dinner  time  the  broth  and  string 
beans  may  be  reheated  in  the  oven, 
while  the  "  loaf  "  is  cooking,  together 
with  the  potatoes  and  tapioca  pudding, 
over  one  burner.  The  tapioca  must 
be  watched  constantly,  while  it  is  di- 
rectly over  the  flame ;  but  this  article, 
as  now  placed  upon  the  market,  cooks 
very  quickly,  and  it  may  be  set  soon 
in  a  dish  of  hot  water  and  into  the 
oven,  to  complete  the  process  of  cook- 
ing. 

On  Tuesday,  the  flank  of  a  sirloin 
steak  will  furnish  broth ;  we  have 
planned  to  cut  out  and  cook  the  ten- 
derloin the  day  it  is  purchased,  and  re- 
tain the  larger  part  of  the  steak  until 
the  following  day.  The  mushrooms 
served  with  the  tenderloin  make  up,  in 
part,  what  the  steak  lacks  in  quantity, 


24 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


and  add  also  needed  flavor.  If  fresh 
mushrooms  are  not  available,  the  Italian 
cepes  may  be  used.  Provided  these  be 
not  agreeable,  three  or  four  slices  of 
bacon,  broiled  (?)  over  a  dripping-pan 
in  the  oven,  would  prove  a  relish, 
pleasing,  at  least,  to  the  palate  of  a 
Southerner. 

For  luncheon,  Wednesday,  steamed 
rice  may  be  used  in  the  place  of  toast 
with  the  "rabbit;"  and  the  juice  of  the 
fresh  pineapple,  served  afterwards,  will 
help  digest  the  cheese. 

We  have  given  vanilla  cream  ice  for 
dinner,  Thursday.  A  thin  cream,  taken 
from  milk  that  has  been  standing  not 
longer  than  ten  or  twelve  hours,  makes 
the  best  cream  ice.  Lacking  this,  the 
best  substitute  is  a  combination  of  four 
parts  of  milk  to  one  of  thick  cream, 
jellied  with  junket.  In  this  limited 
kind  of  menage,  a  freezer  might  be 
wanting,  but  no  lover  of  frozen  deli- 
cacies need  be  deterred  by  that  cir- 
cumstance. A  tin  pail,  with  tightly 
fitting  cover,  set  into  a  larger  vessel 
and  surrounded  with  ice  and  salt,  is 
all  that  is  essential.  When  the  mix- 
ture becomes  chilled  and  adheres  to 
the  side  of  the  pail,  scrape  it  down, 
beat  thoroughly,  and  cover  again ;  re- 
peat this  process  occasionally,  until  the 
mixture  is  well  frozen.  The  straw- 
berry tapioca  affords  a  means  of  using 
berries,  after  the  choice  ones  have  been 
removed  from  the  basket. 

Calf  s- Liver  Loaf. 

Remove  the  skin  from  a  calf's  liver, 
and  cut  the  flesh  into  slices ;  cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  five  minutes,  then 
drain  and  chop  fine.  Add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  onion  juice,  half  a  cup  of 
fine  bread  crumbs  that  have  been 
soaked  in  cold  water  and  then  wrung 
dry  in  a  cloth,  a  scant  teaspoonful  of 


salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  poultry  sea- 
soning, two  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  or  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar ;  mix  thoroughly. 
Line  a  brick-shaped  baking-pan  with 
thin  slices  of  bacon  or  salt  pork,  press 
the  mixture  tightly  into  the  pan,  cover 
with  pork,  and  steam,  or  bake  in  the 
oven,  about  forty-five  minutes.  Turn 
from  the  mould,  remove  the  bacon, 
and  serve  with  tomato  sauce.  If  it 
is  to  be  served  cold,  leave  in  the 
pan  until  ready  to  slice. 

Fricassee  of  Veal. 

Cut  a  thin  slice  of  veal  from  the 
leg  into  pieces  for  serving,  and  dredge 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour.  Cut  a 
slice  of  pork  into  small  cubes  and  fry 
until  crisp ;  take  out  the  bits  of  pork 
and  saute'  the  veal  to  a  delicate  brown 
in  the  fat.  Take  out  the  meat,  and 
stir  into  the  fat  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  black  pep- 
per ;  cook  until  a  light  brown,  then 
add,  very  gradually,  a  pint  of  cold 
water.  Stir  until  boiling  and  smooth, 
then  return  the  veal  to  the  sauce  and 
simmer  very  gently  half  an  hour.  Add 
more  seasoning,  if  needed. 

Strawberry  Tapioca. 

Put  one  box  of  strawberries,  washed 
and  hulled,  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  one- 
fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  over  the  fire  to  cook; 
when  hot  stir  in  half  a  cup  of  fine 
tapioca,  and  cook  until  the  tapioca  is 
transparent;  then  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Serve  hot 
or  cold,  with  cream  and  sugar.  If  the 
seeds  are  objectionable,  scald  and 
strain  the  strawberries  before  adding 
the  other  ingredients. 

Lemon  Sherbet  with  Ginger. 

Boil  two  cups  of  water  and  one  cup 


THE    BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


25 


of  sugar  fifteen  minutes ;  add  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  gelatine,  dissolved  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  and 
strain  through  cheese-cloth.  When 
cold  add  half  a  cup  of  lemon  juice 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  syrup  from 
a  ginger  jar.  When  frozen,  beat  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  preserved  gin- 
ger, chopped  very  fine. 

Eggs  a  la  Cocotte. 

Butter  individual  dishes  made  for 
this  purpose,  —  small,  deep  earthern 
dishes,  supplied  with  a  short  handle  and 
standing  on  three  feet, — moisten  fine, 
white  bread  crumbs  with  cream  to  form 
a  paste,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  with  this  line  the  dish ;  then  break 
in  an  egg ;  sprinkle  with  a  few  grains 
of  salt,  cover  with  more  paste,  and 
bake  in  the  oven  with  the  dish  stand- 
ing in  hot  water.  Bake  hard  or  soft, 
as  is  desired.  Pour  over  the  top  of 
the  egg  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sauce 
(tomato  or  cream,  whichever  is  at 
hand).  Finish  with  a  sprig  of  parsley, 
or  sprinkle  with  parsley,  finely  chopped. 
Chopped  meat  of  any  kind  may  be 
added  to  the  paste.  The  general  name 
for  eggs  cooked  in  this  way  is  shirred  ; 
cooked  in  this  particular  style  of  dish, 
they  are  called  a  la  cocotte. 

Hominy  as  a    Vegetable. 

Wash  two  cups  of  white  corn,  cracked, 
in  several  waters ;  pour  over  it  three 
pints  of  boiling  water,  and  let  come 
quickly  to  the  boiling-point,  stirring 
constantly ;  then  add  a  tablespoonful 
and  a  half  of  salt,  and  set  the  dish  on 
the  back  of  the  range,  where  it  can 
cook  very  slowly  all  day ;  stir  it  occa- 
sionally, and   add   more  boiling  water 


if  needed.  The  next  day,  when  ready 
to  serve,  make  a  pint  of  cream  sauce 
with  one-fourth  a  cup,  each,  of  butter 
and  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  pint  of  rich  milk ;  use  part  cream 
if  convenient.  Stir  into  this  one  pint 
or  more  of  the  cold  hominy,  and,  when 
very  hot,  serve  in  the  place  of  potatoes. 
Perfect  Potatoes. 

Select  ripe  new  potatoes,  and  scrub 
them  until  the  skin  is  removed  ;  boil 
quickly  in  boiling  salted  water,  drain 
perfectly  dry,  and  dust  lightly  with  salt 
from  the  dredger.  Keep  hot  on  the 
back  of  the  range.  Fold  the  potatoes, 
singly,  in  a  hot,  dry  cloth,  twist  the  latter 
tightly,  then  drop  the  dry,  mealy  potato, 
white  as  snow,  into  the  serving-dish. 
Serve  before  they  have  become  cold. 
Green- Pea  Salad. 

This  salad  may  be  prepared  from 
peas  left  over,  or  freshly  cooked.  In 
the  latter  case,  cook  a  pint  of  young, 
tender  peas  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  and  as  little  salted  water  as 
possible,  stirring  constantly  until  the 
peas  are  tender  and  the  water  has 
evaporated.  Set  aside  until  cold. 
Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  a  head  of 
lettuce,  and  arrange  the  leaves  on  a 
serving-dish.  Chop  or  cut  a  cup  and 
a  half  of  roast  lamb  or  boiled  chicken 
very  fine,  and  spread  over  the  lettuce. 
Pour  the  peas  over  the  meat.  Mix 
together  six  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  pepper  to 
taste  ;  add  gradually  two  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar, 
and  pour  over  the  salad.  Sprinkle  the 
whole  with  a  few  mint  or  tarragon 
leaves,  chopped  very  fine. 


26 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


MENUS    FOR    ONE    WEEK    IN   JULY. 


"  It's  poor  eating  when  the  flavor  of    the  meat  lies 
trusten'  to  the  salt  to  hide  it  "  —  George  Eliot. 

BREAKFAST. 

Raspberries.       Hominy  in  Cream  Sauce. 
Broiled  Tripe.     Shirred  Eggs. 
Maryland  Beaten  Biscuit  (Reheated). 
Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Calf's-Head  Soup. 
Boned  Leg  of  Lamb,  Roasted,  Mint 

Sauce,  Cereal  Stuffing. 
Baked  Bananas,  Currant-Jelly  Sauce. 
Potatoes.      Peas.     Cress-and-Egg  Salad. 
Cherry-Souffle  Pudding.     Cafe  Noir. 

SUB  PER. 
Ham  Salad  with  Lettuce. 
Entire-Wheat  Bread-and-Butter. 
Sandwiches.     Raspberries.     Cake.     Tea. 


BREAKFAST. 

Currants. 

Vitos,  Sugar  and  Cream. 

Ham  Toast.      Sliced  Tomatoes. 

Ceraline  Muffins.     Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Pea  Salad,  with  Lamb. 

Toasted  Muffins.      Gooseberry  Souffle. 

Russian  Tea. 

DINNEJt. 

.   Tomato-and-Tapioca  Soup. 

Cold  Lamb,  Sliced  Thin. 

Gooseberry  Jam. 
Baked  Potatoes. 

Summer  Squash. 
Lettuce  Salad.    Neufchatel  Cheese. 
Custard  Renversee. 
Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Wheatena,  with  Raisins. 

Lamb  Chops,  Pan-broiled. 

Potatoes  Warmed  in  Cream  Sauce. 

Parker-House  Rolls  (Reheated). 

Cereal  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Salmon-and-Potato  Salad. 

Bread-and-Butter  Sandwiches.     Olives. 

Blackberries  and  Cream.      Wafers. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Curry  of  Chicken  (Dark  Meat). 

Turkish  Pilaf.  Spinach  a  la  Creme. 

Lettuce  Salad.     Cheese  Straws. 

Junket  Cream  Ice  with  Raspberry 

Preserves. 

Cake.         Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Blackberries. 

Barley  Crystals,  Sugar,  Cream. 

'Hashed  Lamb  on  Toast,  Scrambled  Eggs. 

Hashed  Potatoes,  White. 

Virginia  Spoon  Corn  Bread. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Clam  Chowder. 

Lettuce-and-Cucumber  Salad. 

Quaker-Oats  Bread.  Plums. 

DINNER. 

Chicken  Breasts,  Sauted.    Green  Peas. 

White  Corn,  Cracked,  Poulette  Sauce. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Tongue-and-Spinach  Salad. 

Cherry  Pie  or  Patties.         Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Berries.     Toasted  Wheat,  Sugar,  Cream. 

Cheese  Omelet,  Tomato  Sauce. 

Brownbread,  Toasted.     Cereal  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Broiled  Mushrooms  on  Toast. 

Green-Corn  Custard. 

Currant-Jelly  Roll,  Richelieu  Sauce.    Tea. 

DINNER. 

Cream-of-Spinach  Soup. 

Broiled  Spanish  Mackerel,  Livournaise 

Sauce. 

Mashed  Potatoes,  Browned. 

Buttered  String  Beans. 

Beets,  Stuffed  with  Chopped  Cucumber, 

French  Dressing. 

Cherry-and-Currant  Ice. 

Cocoanut  Cake.     Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Berries. 

Barley  Crystals,  Sugar, 

Cream. 

Lyonnaise  Tripe. 

French-Fried  Potatoes. 

"  Sally  Lunn." 

Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Tomato-Lettuce-and-Mack- 

erel  Salad,  French  Dressing. 

Rye  Bread. 

Huckleberry  Pie. 

Cereal  Coffee. 


DINNER. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup. 

Veal  Cutlets,  Breaded. 

New  Turnips. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

Cauliflower,  Hollandaise 

Sauce. 

Egg-and- Watercress  Salad. 

Almond  Blanc-mange, 

Sugar  and  Cream. 

Cafe  Noir. 


the    cruets  There's    folks   as   make    bad    butter  and 


BREAKFAST. 

Currants.     Wheat-Oats,  Sugar,  Cream. 

Salt  Codfish  in  Cream  Sauce. 

Baked  Potatoes.  Radishes. 

Popovers.     Cereal  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Kornlet  or  Green-Corn  Fritters. 

Mayonnaise  of  Tomatoes. 

Granose  Biscuit.  Tea. 

DINNER. 

Chicken  Soup. 

Salmon  Baked  in  Paper,  Bernaise  Sauce. 

Cucumber-and-Radish  Salad. 

Parisienne  Potatoes.          Fresh  Peas. 

Cheese  Souffle. 

Pineapple  Sponge. 
Boiled  Custard.  Cafe  Noir. 


THE  BOSTOX   COOKIXG-SCHOOL    MAGAZIXE. 


27 


MENUS    FOR    FIVE    DAYS    IN   JULY, 

Farmhouse  with  Summer  Bonrdcr>. 
The  nearer  you  coTie  into  relation  with  a  person,  the  more  necessary  do  tic:  and  courtesy  become.—  0.  W.  H  : 
Be  thankful  if  your  own  soul  has  been  spared  perplexity,  and  judge  not  those  to  whom  a  harder  lot  has  been  given. 

—  George  Eliot. 


BREAK  I 'AST. 

Wild  Strawberries. 
Quaker  Oats,  Wheatlet,  Sugar,  Cream. 
Brook  Trout.  Fried,  Lemon  Quarters. 

Radishes. 
Brown  Fricassee  of  Veal. 

Hashed  Potatoes,  White. 

White  Mountain  Murhns. 
Virginia  Spoon  Corn  Bread.      Coffee. 
dinner. 
Broth  with  Macaroni. 
Baked  Ham,  Cider  Sauce. 

Chickens  Saute,  Poulette  Sauce. 

Savory  Rice.     Mashed  Potatoes. 

Green  Peas.  New  Bee:>. 

Lettuce  Salad. 

Pineapple  Cheese,  Crackers. 

Cherry  Pie. 

Rice-Pudding  Glace,  Lemon  Jelly. 

Cafe  Xoir. 

SUPPEB. 

Cold  Ham,  Sliced  Thin. 

Lettuce-and-Egg  Salad. 

Bread  and  Butter. 
Raspberries,  Cream.     Milk.     Tea. 


BREAKFAST. 

Blackberries.     Malt  Breakfast  Food. 

Toasted  Wheat,  Sugar,  Cream. 

Eggs.  Boiied,  Poached,  or  Creole  Stvle. 

Corned-Beef  Hash.      Pickled  Beets. 

Zwieback.  Breakfast  Rolls  (Yeast). 

Cereal  Coffee.     Coffee. 

LUNCH KON    OH    SUPPEB. 

K-calloped  Veal. 

Cold  Corned  Beef,  Sliced  Thin. 

French  Mustard. 

Cucumbers.  Whipped-Cream  Dressing. 

Hot  Gingerbread.    Cottage  Cheese. 

Milk.  Tea. 

DINNEB. 

Stewed  Chicken.   Baking-Powder  Biscuit. 

Lamb  Chops,  Breaded  and  Fried, 

Tomato  Sauce. 

Macaroni,  with  Poulette  Sauce. 

Baked  Beets.  Buttered. 

Spinach,  with  Eggs. 

Lettuce-and-String-Bean  Salad. 

Bread  Pudding,  Queen  Style. 

Junket  Cream  Ice,  Vanilla.       Cafe  Xoir. 


BREAK  I    i  s  / 

Bananas.   Wheatena,  Rice,  Sugar,  Cream. 

Dried  Beef  in  Cream  Sauce. 

Breakfast  Bacon,  Poached  Eggs  on  Toast. 

Omelet,  with  Peas.     Baked  Potatoes. 

Potato  Cakes.     Rye  Muffins. 

Parker-House  Rolls.  Coffee.  CerealCoffee. 

LUNCHEON    OR    SEP PER. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup,  Browned  Crackers. 

Victoria  Chicken  in  Cases. 

Ham  Salad,  Lertuce. 

Brownbread  and  Butter. 

Tapioca-Custard  Pudding  (Baked). 

Berries,  Cream.     Milk.     Tea. 

l>  INNER. 

Chicken  Soup. 

Boiled  Fore  Quarterof  Lamb,  Caper  Sauce. 

Plain  Boiled  Potatoes. 

New  Turnips,  Mashed. 

Roast  Fowl,  with  Bacon,  Giblet  Gravy. 

Hominy.     Fruit  Jelly.     Summer  Squash. 

Cucumbers.  Poulette  Sauce. 

Beet  and-Lettuce  Salad. 

Cherry-Souffle  Padding,  Cherry  Sauce. 

Strawberry  Junket  Cream  Ice. 

Cafe  Xoir. 


BR  I     I  hi    iST. 

Wheat-Oats. 

Granulated  Barley.  Sugar.  Cream. 

Creamed  Chicken  on  Toast. 

Bacon  Omelet. 

French-Fried  Potatoes. 

Zwieback. 

Bread-Crumb  Griddle-cakes. 

Cereal  Coffee.  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON   OR   SI PREB. 

Cream  of  Spinach.  Croutons. 

Veal  Loaf,  Potato  Salad. 

Yeast  Rolls.  Boiled  Rice. 

Berries,  Cream.  Tea. 

D  iy 'NEB. 

Chicken  Broth,  with  Tapioca. 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce. 

Currant  Jelly.  Franconia  Turnips. 

Spinach  a  la  Creme. 

Chicken  Pie  Peas. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

Cole-slaw. 

Cornstarch  Blanc-mange.  Boiled  Custard. 

Raspberry  Sherbet. 

Cafe  Xoir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Blueberries.  Vitos. 

Barley  Crystals.  Sugar.  Cream. 

Calf's  Liver,  Broiled.     Stilt  Pork.  Broiled. 

Salt  Codfish  Balls,  Tomato  Sauce. 

Pulled  Bread.     Quaker-Oats  Murhns. 

Rice  Waffles,  Maple  Syrup. 

Cereal  Coffee.  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON  OR   SUPPER. 

Creamed  Corned  Beef  au  Gfatin. 

Lettuce,  Cooked  Onion  and  Parsley 

Salad. 


Blueberry  Pie. 

Cereal-Coffee  Tellv, 'Whipped  Cream. 

Milk.  Tea.  Coffee. 

HIN  \ER. 

Tomato-and-Tapioca  Soup  (Lamb). 

Veal.  Braised,  with  Vegetables. 

Mashed  Potatoes.  String  Beans,  Buttered 

Lamb  Croquettes.  Peas  and  Carrots. 

Lettuce-and-Cucumber  Salad. 

Cottage  Pudding.  Tutti-Frutti  Sauce. 

Maple  Mousse.         Cafe  Xoir. 


28 


THE   BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


IN  REFERENCE  TO  MENUS  AND  RECIPES  FOR 
FARMHOUSE. 


Certainly  the  woman  who  has  as- 
sumed the  responsibility  of  catering 
for  twenty  or  twenty-five  boarders  in  a 
country  farmhouse  has  no  sinecure. 
And  yet,  if  she  be  provided  with  a  cool 
milkroom.  a  large  refrigerator,  a  well- 
filled  icehouse,  an  early  kitchen  gar- 
den, and   plenty  of  poultry  and  eggs, 

—  at  the  same  time  possessed  of  an 
intimate  acquaintance  with  the  ele- 
ments of  cookery, —  she  may  hope  to 
provide  a  table  that  will  appease,  at 
least,  the  appetites  of  her  guests,  stim- 
ulated though  they  be  by  long  walks 
and  drives  in  the  bracing  mountain  air, 

—  a  table,  indeed,  that  will  be  recalled 
ever  afterwards  with  pleasure.  But 
what  a  deplorable  waste  of  rich  mate- 
rials is  made,  provided  these  fresh 
country  products  be  illy  cooked ! 

We  say  i;  it  is  dreadful  to  stand  all 
day  over  a  hot  cookstove."  But  by 
no  means  is  this  a  necessary  condition 
of  cooking.  Most  foods  —  vegetables 
excepted  —  are  utterly  ruined  when 
they  are  subjected  a  long  time  to  a 
high  degree  of  temperature.  Unless 
the  oven  is  to  be  used,  a  light  fire  will 
suffice  for  most  purposes,  and  for  the 
occasional  quick  cooking  of  some  por- 
tion of  a  dish  one  burner  of  an  oil  or 
gas  stove  may  be  used,  and  quickly  cut 
off ;  so  that,  if  baking  be  done  with 
the  first  fire  in  the  morning,  at  an  early 
hour  drafts  and  dampers  may  be  prop- 
erly adjusted,  and  the  kitchen  be  kept 
comparatively  cool. 

In  a  kitchen,  first  of  all,  comprehen- 
sive knowledge  of  the  situation  and 
executive  ability  are  needed,  and, 
secondly,  willing  hands  to  carry  out  to 


completion  the  plans  devised  and  the 
directions  given.  As  to  bills  of  fare, 
elaborate  productions  are  entirely  out 
of  place.  In  the  country  we  look  for 
simple  dishes,  cooked  perfectly.  In 
fact,  these  are  prized  everywhere.  At 
a  recent  banquet,  at  a  celebrated  hotel 
in  a  large  city,  the  two  articles,  in  an 
elaborate  and  costly  menu,  that  at- 
tracted most  attention  were  the  rolls 
and  potatoes.  These  received  univer- 
sal notice  and  commendation.  Xow, 
everyone  can  have  bread  and  potatoes 
at  home.  Why,  then,  should  anyone 
give  these  especial  favor  at  a  banquet, 
save  for  the  fact  that  they  are  perfect 
specimens  of  their  kind  ? 

Variety  in  food  must  be  sought  for 
among  the  vegetables,  and  in  the  line 
of  desserts ;  for  in  most  country  places 
good  meat  is  not  readily  obtained. 
Tender  beef  is  quite  out  of  the  ques- 
tion ;  veal  and  lamb  are  sometimes 
available,  but  poultry  is  the  stand-by. 

For  breakfast  we  give  a  choice  of 
cereals;  for,,  with  genuine  country 
cream,  those  who  rarely  partake  of  a 
cereal  will  choose  one  for  the  sake  of 
the  cream.  Brook  trout,  with  per- 
haps bass  from  a  lake  near  by,  are,  in 
most  cases,  the  only  kinds  of  fresh  fish 
that  may  be  obtained;  and  these,  more 
especially  the  speckled  trout,  will  be 
appreciated  as  often  as  they  can  be 
served.  Probably  the  popular  method 
of  cooking  the  trout  is  by  frying  in 
deep  fat.  And,  as  in  all  frying,  the 
fat  must  be  smoking  hot ;  the  fish 
should  be  properly  seasoned,  egged, 
and  crumbed  before  immersion  in  the 
fat.     Then  thev  should  be  drained  thor- 


THE   BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


29 


oughly  on  soft  paper,  and  finally  served 
hot,  accompanied  by  an  acid. 

Sunday,  baked  ham  appears  for  din- 
ner. While  ham  is  not  a  hot-weather 
dish,  a  little  may  be  eaten,  when  living 
in  the  country  and  out  of  doors.  A 
recipe  under  "  Household  Hints,"  in 
the  February-March  issue  of  this  maga- 
zine, will  be  found  equally  satisfactory 
for  cooking  ham  to  be  served  hot  at 
dinner,  or  cold  from  the  luncheon 
basket. 

If  boiled  coffee  is  used,  clear  with 
the  white  and  shell  of  an  egg;  and  pre- 
pare fresh  coffee  at  least  twice  during 
the  breakfast  hour,  to  avoid  letting  the 
decoction  stand  too  long,  lose  its  flavor, 
and  become  unwholesome. 

Three  fowl  will  be  needed  for  din- 
ner. These  should  be  plump,  but  not 
too  fat.  Neither  should  they  be  very 
large,  as  whole  joints  are  preferable 
for  serving  in  the  style  indicated.  The 
bits  of  meat,  carefully  removed  from 
such  pieces  as  are  not  suitable  to  send 
to  the  table,  will  supply  the  filling  for 
the  cases  to  be  served  at  luncheon, 
Monday.  The  pastry  for  these  cases, 
with  that  for  the  pies,  Sunday,  may 
be  prepared  on  Saturday,  wrapped  in 
paraffine  paper,  and  set  aside  in  a  cool 
place ;  it  will  then  keep  in  good  con- 
dition for  these  occasions. 

Rice-pudding  glace'  will  be  found  a 
dainty  dessert.  It  is  at  its  best  when 
half  frozen,  hence  it  should  not  stand 
in  the  ice  and  salt  much  longer  than 
two  hours.  It  will  cut  to  the  best 
advantage,  if  it  be  moulded  in  brick- 
shaped  moulds,  quart  size.  The  con- 
tents of  each  mould  will  serve  nine  or 
ten  people. 

Let  the  breakfast  bacon,  Monday 
morning,  serve  as  a  garnish  to  the 
poached  eggs. 

No    better   way  of    utilizing  bits  of 


cooked  ham  can  be  devised  than  in  a 
ham  salad,  such  as  is  given  in  the 
recipes.  Moulded  in  a  ring  mould,  the 
lettuce  may  be  arranged  in  the  open 
centre  as  a  cup  to  hold  the  mayonnaise 
often  served  with  it;  but,  as  the  cream 
called  for  in  the  recipe  makes  this 
combination  rather  rich,  it  would  be 
preferable  to  use  a  simple  French 
dressing.  It  is  also  better,  where  large 
numbers  are  to  be  served,  to  mould 
the  ham  in  individual  cups  of  small 
size,  from  which  it  may  be  turned  on 
to  single  lettuce  leaves,  and  dressed 
with  French  dressing. 

On  Monday  a  side  of  freshly  killed 
lamb  may  be  purchased,  and  the  fore 
quarter  boiled  on  that  day,  as  meat 
needs  be  fresher  for  boiling  than  for 
other  modes  of  cooking.  This  joint 
will  weigh  about  nine  pounds.  Cook 
with  it  the  flank  from  the  hind  quarter 
and  the  trimmings  from  the  chops. 
Steaming  takes  a  longer  time  than  boil- 
ing, but,  if  convenient,  it  will  be  found 
quite  as  satisfactory. 

In  making  the  croquettes  from  the 
remnants  of  this  dish,  use  any  of  the 
recipes  previously  given  for  croquettes. 
In  making  the  sauce  that  is  to  form 
the  foundation  of  the  croquettes,  if  half 
an  onion  and  a  few  slices  of  carrot  be 
browned  in  the  butter,  few  will  be  able 
to  detect  the  flavor,  yet  a  richly  fla- 
vored croquette  will  result.  For  the 
liquid  of  the  sauce,  chicken  stock  is 
preferable  to  the  liquor  in  which  the 
lamb  was  cooked.  For  the  escalloped 
lamb,  made  of  remnants  from  the  roast 
leg  of  lamb,  make  a  tomato  sauce. 
Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  a  layer 
of  cooked  macaroni,  and  cover  it  with 
sauce ;  add  a  layer  of  meat,  and  cover 
this  also  with  sauce ;  then  macaroni, 
sauce,  meat,  etc.,  in  order,  sprinkling 
the  top  with  buttered  crumbs. 


3° 


THE  BOSTON    COOKEXG-SCHOOL    MAG AZ LYE. 


RECIPES  FROM  PUBLIC  DEMONSTRATIONS  AT  THE 
BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL. 


Broiled  Tripe. 

Put  the  tripe  in  the  oven  a  few  mo- 
ments to  draw  out  the  moisture  ;  drain, 
wipe  dry.  trim  into  good  shape,  and 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Dip  in 
fine  cracker  crumbs,  then  in  oil  or 
melted  butter,  and  again  in  the  crumbs. 
Put  into  a  well-oiled  broiler  and  cook 
about  five  minutes.  Broil  the  honey- 
comb side  first.  When  done,  spread 
with  butter,  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Garnish  with  a  few  sprigs  of 
parsley  and  a  slice  of  lemon. 
Kippered  Herrings. 

The  herrings  may  be  bought  in  cans; 
there  are  usually  three  herrings  in  each 
can.  Remove  the  herrings  from  the 
can  and  place  on  a  platter.  Sprinkle 
with  pepper,  brush  over  with  lemon 
juice  and  butter,  and  pour  over  them 
the  liquor  from  the  can.  Heat  thor- 
oughly; cooking  is  not  necessary.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley  and  lemon. 
Cla?n  Fritters. 

Separate  the  hard  from  the  soft  parts 
of  one  pint  of  clams,  and  chop  the 
hard  parts.  Put  into  a  piece  of  cheese- 
cloth and  press  out  as  much  water  as 
possible ;  then  season  with  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  and  stir  into  a  bat- 
ter made  as  follows :  Beat  two  eggs 
until  light,  add  one-third  a  cup  of  milk 
and  one  cup  and  a  third  of  flour,  sifted 
with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-pow- 
der. Do  not  beat,  but  fold  the  clams 
into  the  batter,  lest  the  mixture  be  dis- 
colored. Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot 
fat  and  fry :  drain  on  soft  paper  before 
serving. 

Veal  Rolls. 

Trim   three   slices  of    veal,  cut  very 


thin,  into  uniform  pieces.  Chop  the 
trimmings,  and  to  each  cupful  of 
chopped  meat  add  one  cracker,  rolled 
fine,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  but- 
ter, two  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  juice, 
a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  salt, 
pepper,  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Spread 
this  mixture  on  slices  of  veal ;  roll  up 
tightly,  and  fasten  in  shape  with  wooden 
toothpicks,  or  tie  with  bits  of  string. 
Simmer  the  rolls  in  hot  veal  stock  until 
tender,  then  roll  in  flour,  and  saute', 
until  nicely  browned,  in  hot  butter  or 
fat  from  salt  pork.  Serve  around  a 
bunch  of  well-cooked  asparagus,  and 
with 

SAUCE. 

Cook  together  three  tablespoonfuls, 

each,  of  butter  and  flour ;  add  one  cup 

of  veal  stock  and  half  a  cup  of  milk. 

Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne. 

Siceetbreads  a  la  Mont    Vert  {Hotel 

Touraine). 

Parboil  two  sweetbreads  and  deco- 
rate with  truffles.  Melt  three  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter,  saute'  in  it  the 
sweetbreads,  two  slices  of  onion,  and 
six  slices  of  carrot.  Drain  off  the  butter, 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  and 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  rich  brown  stock. 
Cook  in  the  oven  twenty-five  or  thirty 
minutes,  basting  often  until  well  glazed. 
In  the  mean  while  pass  a  pint  of  cooked 
peas  through  a  sieve,  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  if  needed,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Shape  into  nests,  one  for  each 
sweetbread,  and  arrange  the  sweet- 
breads in  the  nests,  and  pour  around 
them  —  not  over  —  the  following  sauce  : 
Cut  the  caps  of  three  large  mushrooms 
into  strips,  saute  in  two  tablespoonfuls 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


3' 


of  butter  five  minutes,  dredge  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and,  when 
blended  with  the  butter,  add  one  cup 
of  cream ;  then  strain  into  it  the  gravy 
left  in  the  pan  after  cooking  the  sweet- 
breads. 

Broiled  Fish. 
Wipe  the  fish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  place  in  a  well-oiled  broiler, 
and  cook  over  a  clear  fire.  Remove 
from  broiler,  spread  with  softened  but- 
ter, and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Serve  with  potatoes  a  la  maitre  d'hotel 
and 

CUCUMBER    SAUCE. 

Pare  two  cucumbers,  grate,  drain, 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  vine- 
gar. 

Potatoes  Maitre  d 'Hotel. 

Wash,  pare,  and  shape  potatoes  in 
balls,  using  a  French  vegetable  cutter. 
Cook  one  cup  of  balls  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  tender.  Drain,  and  add 
one  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  butter, 
creamed  and  seasoned  with  one-fourth 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  few  grains  of 
cayenne,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  finely 
chopped  parsley. 

Russian  Salad. 

Marinate  one  cup,  each,  of  carrots 
and  potatoes,  cooked  and  cut  in  small 
pieces,  and  one  cup,  each,  of  peas  and 
string  beans.  Arrange  on  a  dish  in 
four  oval  nests  of  lettuce,  each  vege- 
table by  itself.  Cover  each  section 
with  mayonnaise ;  cover  the  mayon- 
naise on  two  sections  with  small  pieces 
of  smoked  salmon  ;  cover  the  mayon- 
naise on  third  section  with  the  white 
of  a  hard-boiled  egg,  chopped  rather 
coarsely ;  on  the  fourth  section  sift  the 
yolk  of  the  egg.  Arrange  shrimps  on 
the  inner  side  of  each  section,  and  fin- 
ish with  a  tuft  of  lettuce  in  the  centre. 


Potato  Salad. 

Marinate  separately  three  cups  of 
cold  boiled  potatoes  (cut  in  cubes)  and 
one  cup  of  pecan  meats,  broken  in 
pieces,  with  French  dressing.  Pile  on 
a  salad-dish,  and  cover  all,  save  the  cen- 
tre, with  watercress,  dressed  with  French 
dressing.  If  agreeable,  use  a  few  drops 
of  onion  juice  in  the  French  dressing. 
Ivory  Jelly  (Individual  Recipe). 

Soak  one  teaspoonful  of  gelatine  in 
one  teaspoonful  of  cold  water,  and 
dissolve  in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  scalded 
milk  ;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
and  a  few  grains  of  salt.  When  cool 
add  one-fourth  a  cup  of  double  cream 
and  one -eighth  a  teaspoonful  of  va- 
nilla. Stir  the  mixture  occasionally 
until  it  begins  to  thicken;  then  turn 
into  a  cup,  and,  when  thoroughly 
chilled  and  set,  turn  from  the  mould, 
and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 
Pineapple  I'rappe  (Individual  Recipe). 

Boil  half  a  cup  of  water  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  four  minutes ; 
add  one-third  a  cup  of  grated  pine- 
apple and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon 
juice.  Cool,  strain,  and  freeze,  using 
equal  parts  of  finely-crushed  ice  and 
coarse  salt.  Use  in  freezing  a  baking- 
powder  can  and  a  tin  pail.  Cover 
the  can  closely  after  packing,  and, 
when  the  mixture  begins  to  freeze, 
scrape  it  from  the  bottom  and  sides  of 
the  can,  and  beat  until  smooth.  Con- 
tinue until  frozen  as  desired. 
Maple  Mousse. 

Soak  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine 
in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water ; 
add  one  cup  of  hot  maple  syrup,  and 
stir  the  mixture  over  ice  until  it  thick- 
ens ;  then  fold  in  the  whip  from  one 
quart  of  cream.  Turn  into  a  mould, 
and  let  stand  three  hours,  packed  in 
equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt. 


3  2 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


RECIPES  USED  IN  PRECEDING  MENUS, 

(In  all  recipes  where  flour  is  used,  unless  otherwise  stated,  the  flour  is  measured 
after  sifting  once.  When  flour  is  measured  by  cups,  the  cup  is  filled  with  a 
spoon  and  a  lei 'el  cupful  is  meant.  A  tablespoonful  or  a  teaspoonful  of  any 
designated  material  is  a  level  spoonful  of  such  material.) 


CUPS  AND  SPOONS  SHOWING   METHOD  OF  MEASURING. 


Virginia  Spoon  Corn  Bread. 

Stir  half  a  cup  of  breakfast  hominy 
(white  grits)  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water. 
to  which  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  have 
been  added.  Cook  thirty  minutes ; 
add  two  tablespoonfuls,  each,  of  but- 
ter and  lard.  Beat  three  eggs  lightly, 
without  separating  the  whites  and 
yolks,  add  one  cup  of  milk,  and  stir 
into  the  hominy.  Lastly,  add  one 
pint  of  yellow  cornmeal  with  three 
teaspoonfuls,  level,  of  baking-powder. 
Turn  into  a  buttered  serving-dish  that 
will  stand  heat,  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  three-fourths  of  an  hour. 
Serve  from  the  dish  with  a  spoon. 
This  will  serve  ten  people. 

Fowl  Cooked  with  Bacon. 

Clean  a  fowl,  fill  with  bread  stuffing, 
and  truss  for  roasting ;  cover  the  out- 
side of  the  fowl  with  slices  of  bacon, 
tying  them  on  securely.  Steam  about 
two    hours,  or    until    tender;  then   re- 


move the  string  and  bacon  and  place 
on  the  rack  in  the  baking-pan.  Put 
the  bacon  into  the  pan,  dredge  the 
fowl  with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour,  and 
bake  to  a  nice  brown,  basting  often 
with  some  of  the  broth,  to  which  butter 
may  be  added  if  necessary. 

Broiled  Spanish  Mackerel. 
Have  the  fish  drawn  by  the  gills. 
Remove  the  head  and  fins,  cut  down 
the  back  and  remove  the  spine.  Wash 
and  dry  thoroughly,  brush  over  with 
oil  or  melted  butter,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  broil,  in  a  double 
broiler,  over  a  moderate  fire.  Remove 
to  a  hot  dish,  skin  side  down,  and 
spread  with  softened  butter.  Sur- 
round with  parsley  and  lemons,  cut 
in  quarters,  and  serve  in  a  separate 
dish. 

LIVOURNAISE    SAUCE. 

Mix  together  one-fourth  a  teaspoon- 
ful, each,  of  salt  and  white  pepper,  a 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


33 


grating  of  nutmeg,  and  the  yolks  of 
two  raw  eggs ;  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
vinegar,  and,  when  well  blended,  one 
cup  of  oil,  drop  by  drop,  at  first,  as 
in  making  mayonnaise;  thin,  when 
needed,  with  vinegar,  using  in  all 
two  tablespoonfuls.  Now  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and 
the  flesh  of  eight  anchovies,  washed, 
dried,  and  pounded  to  a  pulp  in  a  mor- 
tar.    When    ready   to    serve,   add    the 


pan.  Cover,  and  bake  one  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven,  basting  every  ten  min- 
utes.    Remove  skin  and  serve  with 

BERNAISE    SAUCE. 

Beat  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to 
a  cream,  add  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful, 
each,  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs ;  stir  over  hot  water  un- 
til the  mixture  begins  to  thicken ;  take 
from  the  fire,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  creamed,  and  return  to  the 


SALMON   BAKED   IN   PAPER.     GARNISH':    PARSLEY  AND  SHRIMPS. 


yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten  and  diluted 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  cream.  A 
cup  of  cooked  asparagus  tips  or  green 
peas  may  be  added  to  the  sauce. 
Salmon  Baked  in  Paper. 
Wrap  a  middle  cut  of  salmon,  sea- 
soned with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon 
juice,  in  a  large  sheet  of  buttered 
paper,  and  pin  the  ends  together 
firmly.  Melt  one-fourth  a  cup  of  but- 
ter in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  hot  water, 
and   pour   over  the   fish   in   a  baking- 


fire  for  about  two  minutes ;  remove, 
and  add  again  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  more  seasoning  if  needed,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar. 
Cook  until  heated,  and  serve. 
Timbales  of  Calf's  Brains. 
Wash  the  brains,  removing  the  skin, 
tie  in  a  cheese-cloth,  and  cover  with 
boiling  salted  water,  to  which  a  table- 
spoonful of  vinegar  and  a  bay  leaf 
have  been  added.  Simmer  fifteen  min- 
utes, drain,  and  cool.     Beat  with  three 


34 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


tablespoonfuls  of  almonds,  blanched 
and  pounded  fine  in  a  mortar,  to  a 
smooth  pulp ;  add  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of 
white  pepper,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice:  then  beat  in.  one  by  one. 
the  whites  of  four  eggs,  beating  in 
each  es;g  until  the  mixture  is  smooth 
before  another  is  added.  Turn  into 
well-buttered  timbale  moulds,  set  in  a 
pan  of  boiling  water,  and   bake   about 


dish  of  hot  water,  and  stir  in  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  beaten,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  lemon   juice. 

Turkish  Pilaf. 

Put  one  cup  and  a  half  of  stock, 
with  one  cup  of  stewed  and  strained 
tomatoes,  over  the  fire.  When  boiling 
add  one  cup  of  well-washed  rice  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  stir  lightly 
with  a  fork  occasionally,  until  the  liq- 
uor  is   absorbed.       Then    add    half   a 


MEAT  WARMED  IN   CURRY  SAUCE,   AROUND  TURKISH    PILAF  MOULDED   IN   RING   MOULD. 


fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the  mixture  is 
well  set.     Serve  with 

YELLOW    BECHAMEL    SAUCE. 

Melt  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter ; 
cook  in  it.  until  frothy,  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  flour,  with  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful 
of  white  pepper  ;  add.  gradually,  one 
cup  of  chicken  liquor,  well  seasoned 
with  vegetables,  and  a  cup  of  thin 
cream.  When  the  sauce  boils,  after 
the  liquid  has  been  added,  set  into  a 


cup  of  butter  and  cook  over  hot  water 
until  tender.  Stir  lightly  with  a  fork, 
then  turn  into  a  high  ring  mould, 
thoroughly  buttered ;  press  the  rice 
firmly  into  the  mould,  and  set  in  a 
hot  oven  four  or  five  minutes ;  turn 
out  on  to  a  serving-dish.  Fill  in  the 
open  centre  with  parsley  and  pour 
about  the  pilaf. 

Meat  Warmed  with  Curry  Sauce. 

Have  ready  three  cups  of  thin  slices 
of  cold  meat,  freed  from  the  skin,  fat, 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


35 


and  bone.  Season  with  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper. 
Saute  an  onion  and  a  clove  of  garlic, 
cut  fine,  in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter ; 
add  a  scant  half-teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  then 
one  cup  of  stock,  with  a  blade  of  mace ; 
simmer  ten  minutes  ;  now  add  half  a 
cup  of  hot  almond  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful   of   currant  jelly,  and   half   a 


a  half  of  cold  water ;  then  dissolve  in 
three-fourths  a  cup  of  hot  chicken 
liquor.  Strain  over  one  cup  of  cooked 
ham,  chopped,  and  stir,  standing  in 
ice  water,  until  the  mixture  begins  to 
thicken  ;  fold  in  one  cup  of  thick  cream, 
beaten  stiff ;  add  also  a  few  grains  of 
paprica,  and  salt,  if  needed.  Mould 
in  a  ring  mould.  At  serving-time  turn 
the  preparation  from  the  mould,  fill  in 
the  centre  with  lettuce  arranged  like  a 


HAM   SALAD. 


tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice ;  strain 
over  the  slices  of  meat  and  reheat 
over  the  hot  water.  Almond  milk  is 
made  by  cooking  one-fourth  a  cup  of 
blanched  almonds,  chopped  fine  and 
pounded  in  a  mortar,  half  an  hour  in 
a  cup  of  milk.  Fresh  cocoanut,  grated, 
may  be  used  in  the  place  of  the  al- 
monds. 

Ham  Salad. 
Soak  half  a  tablespoonful  of  granu- 
lated gelatine  in  one  tablespoonful  and 


cup.  Fill  with  mayonnaise,  or  pass 
French  dressing  with  the  salad. 
Broiled  Afus/irooms  on  Toast. 
Select  large,  fresh  mushrooms ;  re- 
move the  stems,  wash  carefully,  drain 
on  a  cloth,  and  peel  the  caps.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  brush  over  with 
oil  or  softened  butter,  and  broil  in  a 
double  broiler  —  oyster  broiler  pre- 
ferred—  over  a  rather  dull  fire.  Ar- 
range on  thin  rounds  of  toasted  bread. 
Season    each    mushroom    with    a    few 


36 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


drops  of  lemon  juice ;  add.  also,  a  lit- 
tle softened  butter.  Garnish  with 
points  of  bread,  toasted,  and  parsley. 
Cucumbers  in  Pouhtte  Sauce. 
Cut  three  medium-sized  cucumbers 
into  quarters,  lengthwise;  remove  the 
green  rind  and  seeds,  then  cut  in  pieces 
two  inches  long  and  one  inch  thick ; 
let    simmer,    until    tender,    in    boiling 


bers  while  cooking.  The  beaten  yolk 
of  an  egg  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice,  also,  may  be  added  to  the  sauce 
just  before  serving.  If  stock  is  not  at 
hand  for  the  sauce,  add  two  or  three 
slices  of  bacon,  with  onion  and  bay 
leaf,  to  the  water  in  which  the  cucum- 
ber is  cooked,  and  use  this  water, 
strained,  in  making  the  sauce. 


WEDDING  CAKE,   PIPED  WITH   ORNAMENTAL   FROSTING   BY  FANNIE  M.   FARMER. 
GARNISH:    NATURAL  ROSES. 


water  to  which  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  one  tablespoonful  and  a  half 
of  salt  have  been  added.  Drain  on  a 
cloth.  Make  a  pint  of  sauce  of  one- 
fourth  a  cup.  each,  of  flour  and  butter, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  white 
pepper,  and  a  pint  of  chicken  stock. 
In  this  reheat  the  cucumbers:  add  more 
seasoning,  and  serve.  If  the  chicken 
stock  is  not  well  seasoned,  add  an 
onion,  a  bay  leaf,  etc.,  to  the  cucum- 


Omamental  Frosting  for  Wedding  Cake. 
Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  confectioners' 
sugar  three  minutes  ;  continue  adding 
same  quantity  of  sugar  and  beating 
same  length  of  time,  until  one  cup  and  a 
half  of  sugar  have  been  used ;  gradually 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice 
as  the  mixture  thickens.  Continue 
adding  sugar,  and  beating,  until  a  knife 
cut  down  into  the  frosting  will  make  a 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


37 


"  clean  cut "  that  does  not  close  to- 
gether again.  Spread  the  cake  with  a 
thin  coating  of  frosting ;  when  this  has 
hardened,  put  on  a  thicker  layer,  hav- 
ing the  mixture  somewhat  stiffer  ;  then 
crease  for  cutting.  To  the  remaining 
frosting  add  sugar  and  beat  until  the 
frosting  will  keep  its  shape  when 
pressed  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube. 
Junket  Cream  lee  with  Strawberries. 
Put  one  quart  of   milk,  one  cup  of 


ice-cream.  Pack  into  individual  moulds, 
basket  shape,  and  chill  half  an  hour, 
packed  in  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt. 
At  time  of  serving,  turn  from  the 
moulds  on  to  individual  plates,  and 
fill  the  baskets  with  fresh  strawberries. 
Cherry-Souffle  Pudding. 
Use  for  this  pudding  one  pint  of 
cherries,  canned,  or  cooked  with  sugar. 
Drain  the  cherries  from  the  syrup. 
Butter  well  a  three-pint   melon  mould, 


JUNKET  CREAM   ICE  WITH   STRAWBERRIES. 


double  cream,  and  one  cup  of  sugar 
over  the  fire  to  heat  in  a  double  boiler. 
Stir  and  heat  until  just  lukewarm,  not 
above  ioo°  Fahr  Remove  from  fire 
and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  vanilla 
extract  and  a  tablespoonful  of  liquid 
rennet,  or  one  junket  tablet  crushed 
and  dissolved  in  one  tablespoonful  of 
cold  water.  Let  stand  undisturbed  in 
the  warm  room  ten  or  fifteen  minntes  ; 
then  pour  the  jellied  mixture  into  the 
can  of  the  freezer  and  freeze   as  anv 


and  the  cover  to  the  same.  Decorate 
the  mould  with  cherries.  Mix  one- 
third  a  cup  of  sifted  flour  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  with  half  a  cup  of 
cold  syrup,  or  water,  to  a  smooth  paste, 
and  stir  into  half  a  cup  of  hot  cherry 
syrup ;  cook  and  stir  until  the  mixture 
thickens.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
and  stir  into  the  mixture,  with  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  and,  when  cool,  fold 
into  it  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten 
until   dry.      Turn    into    the   decorated 


38 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


mould,  cover,  and  let  steam  an  hour 
and  a  quarter,  or  let  boil  one  hour 
standing  in  water.  When  done,  take 
from  the  water,  and  let  the  pudding 
stand  in  the  mould  an  instant,  then 
turn  out  and  serve  with  the  rest  of  the 
cherries,  heated  in  a  little  sugar  and 
water.  Add  also  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon.     Serve  at  once. 

Cherry  Patties. 
With    a    two-inch    fluted    cutter    cut 
patties  from  puff  paste   rolled   to  one- 


lated  sugar.  Bake  the  covers  and 
cases  on  separate  tins.  When  ready 
to  serve,  reheat  and  fill  with  stoned 
cherries  cooked  in  the  syrup.  Add.  in 
cooking,  more  sugar,  according  to  the 
acidity  of  the  cherries,  and  reduce,  at 
last,  until  a  very  thick  syrup  is  formed. 
Skim  out  the  cherries  before  reducing 
the  syrup,  or  as  soon  as  they  are  tender. 
Pineapple  Sponge. 
Simmer  together  one  cup  and  a  half 
of    grated    pineapple,    three-fourths    a 


P.NEAPPLE  SPONGE. 


eighth  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Cut 
out  covers  of  the  same  size  as  the  base 
of  the  patties.  When  chilled  and  ready 
for  the  oven  pour  over  the  covers  a 
little  syrup  boiled  to  the  caramel  stage. 
Do  not  let  the  syrup  run  over  the  edge 
of  the  cover.  Use  half  a  cup  of  sugar 
and  one-fourth  cup  of  water  for  the 
syrup,  and  boil  until  it  begins  to  show 
a  trace  of  caramel  color.  Sprinkle 
the  covers,  at  once,  with  coarse  granu- 


cup  of  sugar,  and  half  a  cup  of  water, 
fifteen  minutes  ;  add  one-fourth  a  pack- 
age of  gelatine,  soaked  in  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  cold  water,  and  strain  through 
a  cheese-cloth,  pressing  the  juice  from 
the  pulp.  Set  in  a  dish  of  ice  water, 
and  stir  constantly  until  it  begins  to 
set.  Now  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon 
and  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  and 
beat  until  very  stiff ;  then  turn  into  a 
mould  and   set  aside  in   a  cool   place. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


39 


Serve  with  whipped  cream  sweetened 
and  flavored,  or  with  a  boiled  custard. 
Rice-Pudding  Glace. 
Wash  one-fourth  a  cup  of  rice.  Let 
boil  five  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water, 
and  drain  carefully ;  then  put  into  a 
double  boiler  with  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  two  cups  of  milk, 
and  cook  until  the  grains  are  tender. 
Add  three-fourths  a  cup  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  let  cool  slightly.      Soak  one- 


on  tightly  over  paper.  Let  stand, 
packed  in  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt, 
about  two  hours.  The  mixtures  should 
not  be  frozen  very  hard.  Serve  with 
orange  or  lemon  jelly  cut  in  small 
cubes.  Arrange  the  jelly  as  a  wreath 
about  the  glace'.  Raspberry  or  straw- 
berry preserves  may  be  used  instead 
of  the  jelly. 

Lemon  Jelly. 
Let   one    box    of    gelatine    soak    in 


RICE-PUDDING  GLACE.     GARNISH:    LEMON  JELLY  AND  ROSES. 


fourth  a  box  of  powdered  gelatine  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water, 
and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  until 
thoroughly  dissolved,  then  strain  into 
the  rice.  Set  into  a  pan  of  ice  and  wa- 
ter, and  stir  until  it  begins  to  set,  then 
flavor  with  one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla 
extract,  and  fold  in  one  cup  of  double 
cream,  beaten  solid.  Put  the  mixture 
into  a  quart  mould,  filling  the  corners 
and  packing  solidly,  and  press  the  cover 


three-fourths  a  cup  of  cold  water;  dis- 
solve in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  in 
which  a  two-inch  piece  of  cinnamon 
bark  has  been  steeping  on  the  back  of 
the  range  half  an  hour  or  more.  Add 
one  cup  of  sugar,  and,  when  cold,  three- 
fourths  a  cup  of  lemon  juice.  Strain 
through  a  cheese-cloth  into  a  shallow 
dish.  The  jelly  should  be  about  half 
an  inch  thick.  When  thoroughly  cold 
spread  a  paper  over  the  meat  board, 
immerse  the  vessel  containing  the  jelly 


40 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


into  warm  water,  and  invert  on  the 
paper.  Dip  a  sharp  knife  in  warm 
water,  and  cut  the  jelly  in  equal  squares. 
Gooseberry  Souffle. 
Stew  one  pint  and  a  half  of  goose- 
berries with  half  a  cup  of  water  until 
soft ;  pass  through  a  sieve,  and  sweeten 
the  pulp  to  taste.  Bring  to  the  boiling- 
point,  then  turn  into  a  serving-dish  that 
may  be  set  in  the  oven.  When  cold 
have  ready  a  boiled  custard  made  with 


granulated  sugar  over  the  top,  and  set 
in  the  oven  until  delicately  colored 
(about  eight  minutes).  Serve  hot  or 
cold. 

Sea-Moss  Farine  Sponge, 
Mix  together  half  a  tablespoonful  of 
sea-moss  farine  and  one-third  a  cup  of 
sugar,  and  stir  into  a  pint  of  milk; 
cook  twenty  minutes  over  hot  water, 
stirring  occasionally  ;  flavor  to  suit  the 
taste,  and    fold   into    the    mixture  the 


SEA-MOSS  FARINE  SPONGE. 


the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  half  a  cup  of 
sugar,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  pint  of  rich  milk.  Reserve  the 
white  of  one  egg  for  clearing  coffee. 
Beat  the  others  to  a  stiff  froth ;  add 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar 
gradually,  beating  constantly.  Now 
cut  and  fold  in  three  or  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar,  add  a  few  drops  of  va- 
nilla, and  pile  the  meringue  upon  the 
custard   in   an    irregular    manner ;    sift 


stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Turn 
into  a  ring  mould  rinsed  in  cold  water. 
When  ready  to  serve,  turn  from  the 
mould.  Have  ready  a  basket  of  straw- 
berries, hulled,  washed,  and  drained. 
Arrange  the  choice  berries  in  the  centre 
and  around  the  sponge ;  pass  the  rest 
through  a  sieve,  add  the  juice  of  an 
orange,  and  nearly  a  cup  of  sugar. 
Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then 
pour  over  the  berries  and  serve. 


Queries  and  Answers, 


This  department  is  for  the  benefit  and  free  use  of  our  subscribers. 
Questions  relating  to  menus  and  recipes,  and  those  pertaining  to  culinary 
scie/ice  and  domestic  economics  in  general,  will  be  cheerfully  answered 
by  the  Editor.  Communications  must  reach  us  before  the  first  of  the  month  preceding  that  in 
which  the  answers  are  expected  to  appear.  Address  all  inquiries  to  Editor,  Boston  Cooking- 
School  Magazine,  372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


Query  209.  —  Miss   C.    T.,   Denver, 
Colo. :    "  Recipes  for  preparing    whey, 
beef-tea  custard.    Irish-moss  drink,   and 
peptonized  m  ilk. 

Whey. 

For  each  quart  of  milk  dissolve  one 
junket  tablet  in  one  tablespoonful  of 
cold  water.  Heat  the  milk  to  1000 
Fahr.,  add  the  tablet,  stir  an  instant, 
mixing  thoroughly,  and  set  aside  in  a 
warm  place  until  the  milk  is  jellied ; 
then  break  up  the  curd  and  strain  out 
the  whey  through  a  cheese-cloth.  Serve 
hot  or  cold,  either  with  or  without  sweet- 
ening and  flavoring. 

Lemon,   Vi?iegar,  or  Wine  Whey. 

Heat  a  pint  of  milk  to  the  boiling- 
point  ;  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
freed  from  seeds ;  let  the  milk  again 
come  to  the  boiling-point:  then,  with- 
out pressure,  strain  the  whey  through 
a  cheese-cloth.  Half  a  cup  of  wine. 
or  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  may 
be  used  instead  of  the  lemon  juice. 

Whey  has  no  value  as  an  aliment, 
but  it  is  useful  as  a  beverage  in  febrile 
diseases,  because  it  promotes  perspira- 
tion and  possesses  diuretic  properties. 
Beef-  Tea  Custard  (Stimulating  and 
Nutritious). 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  slightly ; 
add  a  few  grains  of  salt  and,  very 
gradually,  a  cup  of  hot  beef  tea ;  cook 
in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly, 


until  the  mixture  thickens ;  then  pass 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Serve  cold  in 
custard  cups.  If  permissible,  the  beef 
tea  used  in  this  dish  may  be  flavored 
with  celery  or  parsley. 

Beef  Extract   Custard. 

Beat  an  egg  until  white  and  yolk  are 
well  mixed ;  add  a  few  grains  of  salt,  a 
tablespoonful  of  beef  extract,  and  half 
a  cup  of  milk  ;  strain  into  a  buttered 
custard  cup.  Set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  firm. 
Irish-Moss   Drink. 

Pick  over  one-fourth  a  cup  of  Irish 
moss,  let  stand  in  cold  water  to  cover 
half  an  hour,  or  until  soft.  Remove 
the  moss  to  a  double  boiler,  add  two 
cups  of  cold  water,  and  cook  about 
twenty  minutes;  strain,  and  to  half  a 
cup  of  the  liquid  add  from  a  table- 
spoonful to  half  a  cup  of  lemon  juice, 
with  sugar  to  sweeten.  A  syrup  of 
sugar  and  water  is  preferable  to  sugar 
for  sweetening. 

Peptonized  Milk  {Cold  Process). 

Into  a  clean  quart  bottle  or  jar  put 
five  grains  (one-fourth  a  teaspoonful) 
of  extraction  pa?icreatis,  powdered,  one- 
fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  half 
a  cup  of  cold  water ;  shake  thoroughly, 
then  add  a  pint  of  fresh,  cool  milk ; 
shake  again  and  put  directly  upon  the 
ice.  This  milk  may  be  used  in  any 
dish  where   milk   is  called   for.     After 


42 


'I'll E  BOS 'TO N   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


using   milk   from   the  bottle,  return  at 
once    to    the    ice,  or    the    peptonizing 
process  will  be  continued. 
Peptonized  Milk. 

Prepare  the  milk  as  before  ;  then 
place  the  bottle  in  water  at  about  1150 
Fahr.  (the  hand  can  be  held  in  water  of 
this  temperature  without  discomfort). 
Keep  the  bottle  in  the  water  ten  min- 
utes, then  put  at  once  on  ice.  The 
bottle  should  come  in  direct  contact 
with  the  ice.  In  some  preparations  of 
pancreatis,  as  Fairchild's,  the  proper 
proportions  of  panc?-eatis  and  soda  for 
a  pint  of  milk  come  mixed  together  in 
a  tube. 

The  taste  of  milk  peptonized  (i.  e., 
partially  digested),  by  the  "  cold  proc- 
ess," is  unchanged.  Milk  so  treated 
is  especially  suitable  for  persons  who 
ordinarily  find  milk  indigestible.  If 
the  stomach  is  unable  to  retain  prop- 
erly and  assimilate  milk  prepared  by 
this  process,  the  milk  should  be  heated 
and  the  process  of  digestion  carried  on 
still  further,  as  by  the  second  method. 
After  the  milk  has  been  properly  pep- 
tonized by  the  second  process,  it  may 
be  scalded,  and  thus  the  process  of 
peptonization  is  checked ;  in  this  case 
it  may  be  kept  simply  in  a  cool  place, 
ice  being  unnecessary. 


Query    210.  —  Mr.    P.,     Wheeling, 
W.   Va. :    "  Recipe  for  corning  beef." 
To  Corn  Beef. 

To  each  gallon  of  cold  water  put 
one  quart  of  rock  salt,  one  ounce  of 
saltpetre,  and  four  ounces  of  brown 
sugar.  This  brine  need  not  be  boiled. 
As  long  as  any  salt  remains  undis- 
solved, the  meat  will  be  sweet.  If  any 
scum  should  rise,  scald  and  skim  well, 
adding  more  salt,  saltpetre,  and  sugar. 
As  you  put  each  piece  of  meat  in  the 


tub  or  barrel,  rub  it  over  with  salt.  If 
the  water  is  warm,  gash  the  meat  to 
the  bone  and  put  in  salt.  Weight  the 
meat  down. 

To  Corn  Beef,  No.  2. 
Add  coarse  fine-salt  to  cold  water, 
until  a  brine  strong  enough  to  float  a 
small  potato  is  formed.  Cover  the  beef 
with  brine,  and  weight  it  with  a  stone. 
In  three  or  four  days  this  beef  will  be 
in  prime  condition ;  after  this  it  may 
become  too  salt  and  hard. 


Query  211.  —  Mrs.  A.  L.  N.  IV., 
Peterborough,  N.  H. :  "  Is  there  any- 
thing that  will  take  the  place  of  brandy 
in  wedding  cake  ?  " 

Substitute  for  Brandy  in  Cake. 

Brandy  is  added  to  preserve  the 
cake,  but  a  rich  fruit  cake  will  keep  a 
reasonable  length  of  time  without  it. 
Spices  are  also  preservative.  Substi- 
tute for  the  brandy  an  equal  quantity 
of  cold  coffee,  water,  or  milk. 


Query    212. — Miss    S.    G.,    Cam- 
bridge, O. :   "  Recipes  for  marrow  balls 
and  other  garnishes  served  in  soup." 
Marrow   Balls  for  Soup. 

Use  the  hind  shin  of  beef  for  the 
stock ;  remove  part  of  the  marrow  and 
set  aside  for  the  balls.  Melt  two  ta- 
blespoonfuls  of  marrow  and  strain 
through  a  cheese-cloth;  beat  until 
creamy,  then  add  an  egg  and  beat 
again  thoroughly.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  very  little  mace.  Stir 
into  this  mixture  stale  bread,  grated, 
to  make  it  of  a  consistency  to  handle. 
Roll  into  small  balls  and  poach  three 
or  four  minutes  in  water  just  at  the  boil- 
ing-point ;  add  to  the  soup  just  before 
serving. 

Other  Garnishes  for  Soup. 

Cooked    macaroni,    cut    in    narrow 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


43 


rings;  white  of  egg  poached  in  a 
cup,  cut  in  slices,  then  in  diamond 
or  other  shapes ;  royal  custard,  given 
among  the  recipes  in  last  issue,  cut 
in  slices,  then  in  shapes;  peas  or  as- 
paragus tips  ;  vegetables,  cut  into  fine 
shreds  about  two  inches  long,  are  but 
a  few  of  the  many  common  articles 
used  for  this  purpose. 


Query    213.  —  Mrs.    N.    E.,    Kirk- 
wood,  Mo. :  "  Please  give  explicit  direc- 
tions   for    cooking    brownbread,     i?i    a 
steamer,  boiling  it  in   water y  etc.'''' 
Steamed  Browjibread. 

Put  the  brownbread  mixture  into  a 
buttered  mould,  pail,  or  three  or  four 
baking-powder  boxes,  pound  size,  cover 
and  set  on  the  rack  in  the  steam  kettle 
(the  piece  with  holes  in  it,  referred  to 
by  our  querist,  is  the  rack),  fill  with 
water,  either  hot  or  cold,  to  the 
rack,  and  cook  the  time  given  in  the 
recipes.  Do  not  let  the  water  stop  boil- 
ing; replenish  with  boiling  water  when 
needed.  If  a  steam  kettle  is  not  at 
hand,  put  the  mixture  in  the  dish  se- 
lected into  a  kettle  of  water,  having 
the  water  rise  to  about  one-fourth  of 
the  height.  Do  not  let  the  dish  con- 
taining the  bread  come  in  direct  con- 
tact with  the  bottom  of  the  kettle ;  put 
in  something  through  which  the  water 
can  pass  ;  a  flatiron  rest,  if  nothing  else 
be  available.  If  the  bread  be  steamed 
long  enough,  —  two  hours  for  small 
moulds  and  three  for  those  of  larger 
size,  —  it  need  not  be  set  into  the  oven. 


Query   214.  —  M.  £.  H.,  Randolph, 
Ft.  :  "  Why  do  currants  go  to  the  bot- 
tom of  a   cake   when   directions  are  fol- 
lowed, and  how  can  it  be  avoided 7  " 
How  Avoid  Settling  of  Fruit  in  Cake. 

A    more    definite    answer    might  be 
given,  if  the  proportions  of  the  various 


ingredients,  in  a  special  case,  were 
stated.  Not  all  butter  cakes  are  mixed 
stiff  enough  to  hold  up  fruit.  If  flour 
be  added  freely  to  secure  this  end,  the 
cake  will  be  ruined.  Different  brands 
of  flour  have  different  thickening  qual- 
ities, so  that,  in  some  cases,  a  very 
small  quantity,  in  addition  to  that  given 
in  the  recipe,  is  required  to  hold  up 
fruit.  The  fruit  should  be  dry  when 
it  is  put  into  the  mixture.  If  a  small 
quantity  is  to  be  used,  it  may  be 
added  to  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar. 
When  added  at  the  last,  it  is  often 
floured. 


Query  215.  —  A.  M.  W.,  Worcester, 
Mass.:  "  Recipes  for  cream -of -chicken 
soup  and  lobster  soup" 

Cream  Soups. 

The  simplest  cream  soups  are  made 
by  passing  the  cooked  material,  from 
which  the  soup  takes  its  name,  through 
a  sieve  ;  to  this  pulp  is  added  the  water 
in  which  the  article  was  cooked,  a  sea- 
soning of  salt  and  pepper,  and  an  equal 
quantity  of  cream  sauce. 
Formula  for  One   Cup  of  Cream  Sauce. 

Two   tablespoonfuls    of   butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls    of    flour,    one-fourth    a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper, 
and  one  cup  of  milk  or  cream. 
Cream-of -Chicken  Soup. 

Scald  one  pint  of  milk  with  a  stalk 
of  celery  and  half  an  onion  cut  in 
slices.  Cream  one -fourth  a  cup  of 
butter,  add  one-fourth  a  cup  of  flour, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  dash 
of  pepper;  mix  thoroughly,  then  stir 
into  the  hot  milk  ;  cook  fifteen  minutes 
over  hot  water,  then  add  one  pint 
of  chicken  liquor,  well  seasoned,  and 
strain  into  the  soup  tureen.  If  a  richer 
soup  be  desired,  add,  just  before  strain- 
ing, the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  di- 
luted with  half  a  cup  of  cream. 


44 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


Chicken  Soup. 
Simmer  one  quart  of  chicken  liquor, 
the  bones  of  the  chicken,  one  table- 
spoonful,  each,  of  onion  and  carrot,  a 
sprig  of  parsley,  a  stalk  of  celery,  a 
teaspoonful  of  sweet  herbs,  four  pep- 
percorns, and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  one 
hour.  Strain  into  a  double  boiler,  add 
one  cup  of  milk  and  three-fourths  a 
cup  of  cream,  and,  when  scalded,  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca,  stirring 
occasionally,  until  the  tapioca  is  trans- 
parent. Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
add  one-fourth  a  cup  of  cream,  and 
stir  into  the  soup.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  with  a  few  grains  of  salt  until 
dry;  put,  by  spoonfuls,  into  hot  water, 
dip  the  water  over  the  egg,  and  remove 
with  a  skimmer,  one  portion  to  each 
cup  of  soup. 

Bisque  of  Lobster. 
Remove  the  meat  of  a  two-pound 
lobster  from  the  shell,  and  cut  the 
tender  pieces  into  small  cubes.  Cover 
the  tough  portions  and  the  bones  of 
the  body  with  cold  water  and  simmer 
twenty  minutes,  adding  more  water  if 
necessary.  Scald  one  quart  of  milk 
and  cook  in  it  ten  minutes  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  flour  creamed  together ;  strain 
into  this  the  water  in  which  the  lobster 
was  simmered,  of  which  there  should 
be  one  pint.  Chicken  liquor  may  be 
used  instead,  or  for  a  part,  of  the  milk. 
Just  before  serving,  stir  into  the  soup 
half  a  cup  of  lobster  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  as  desired,  and  pour  into  the 
tureen  over  the  meat  and  the  green  fat 
from  the  lobster. 

To  Make  Lobster  Butter. 

.  Pound  the   coral,   or   spawn,  of  the 

lobster  with   half  a  cup  of  butter  in  a 

mortar ;    then    pass   it  through  a  very 

fine   sieve.     Lacking  coral,  pound  the 


shell  and  butter  to  a  pulp ;  then  heat 
until  melted  and  strain  through  a 
cloth. 


Query  216.  —  Mrs.  H.  M.  B.,  Chest- 
nut Hill,  Mass. :  "  Recipe  for  cream-of- 
m  ush room  soup . ' ' 

Cream-of  Mushroom  Soup. 

Simmer  one  quart  of  mushrooms, 
peeled,  in  one  quart  of  water  until 
tender  ;  drain  and  chop  very  fine  ;  then 
pass  them  through  a  sieve  ;  return  to 
the  liquor  in  which  they  were  cooked, 
and  add  hot  water  to  make  one  quart 
in  all.  Stir  this  into  one  quart  of  hot 
white  sauce.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 


Query  217.  — M.  M.,  South  Boston, 
Mass. :  "  Recipes  for  puree-of  mush  room 
soup  and  escarole  salad." 

Puree-of Mushroom  Soup. 

To  one  pint  of  thick  mushroom 
pulp  add  milk  and  cream  to  make  a 
soup  of  the  consistency  desired ;  re- 
heat over  hot  water,  and  season  to 
taste.  The  pure'e  is  usually  served 
quite  thick. 

Escarole  Salad. 

Use  only  the  blanched  leaves  from 
a  head  of  escarole  ;  wash  thoroughly, 
and  wipe  or  shake  dry ;  then  set  aside 
in  a  cool  place  to  become  crisp.  Rub 
the  salad  bowl  with  a  clove  of  garlic, 
cut  in  halves  ;  put  in  the  escarole 
leaves  and  sprinkle  with  three  or  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  oil ;  more  may  be 
needed.  Toss  the  leaves  about  in  the 
bowl,  then  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt 
and  pepper,  and  lastly  with  one  or  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Serve  after 
mixing  thoroughly.  A  tablespoonful 
of  olives,  chopped  fine  and  sprinkled 
over  the  escarole,  may  be  used  instead 
of  the  garlic. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


45 


Query  218.  —  Mrs.  G.  N.  M.,  Meri- 

den.   Conn. :  "  Kindly   tell   me   why  my 

meringues  are  not  brittle.      They  are  like 

gum  and  hard  to  remove  from  the  spoon." 

About  Meringues. 

The  meringues  are  either  improperly 
mixed  or  baked.  The  sugar  needs  to 
be  beaten  and  folded  into  the  eggs,  not 
stirred,  and  the  mixture  baked  very 
slowly.  In  the  recipe  as  given,  all  of 
the  sugar  was  folded  into  the  stiffly- 
beaten  whites  of  eggs.  A  closer- 
grained,  meringue  would  result,  if  two- 
thirds  of  the  sugar  were  added,  a 
tablespoonful  at  a  time,  to  the  stiffly- 
beaten  whites.  When  this  amount  of 
sugar  has  been  added,  discontinue  the 
beating  and  lightly  fold  in  the  re- 
mainder of  the  sugar.  The  meringues 
should  not  brown  until  they  have  been 
in  the  oven  at  least  twenty-five  minutes. 


Query  219. —  Mrs.  E.  B.  71,  Van- 
couver, Wash.  ;  "  Please  publish  the 
name  of  a  substitute  for  ?nilk,  to  be  used 
in  dishes  like  cream  soups,  or  in  the  nu- 
merous desserts  in  which  milk  forms  the 
chief  ingredient. ' ' 

Substitute  for  Milk. 

Sterilized  milk  will  keep  in  a  cool 
place  for  a  year  or  more.  Condensed 
milk,  diluted  with  water,  may  be  very 
satisfactorily  used  in  desserts.  Our 
correspondent  is  keeping  house  in  the 
Philippines. 


Query  220.  —  Mrs.  M.  F.  S.,  Bed- 
ford, Mass. :  "  7)/  one  recipe  for  Boston 
brownbread,  you  have  given  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  soda,  and  in  another  two 
teaspoonfuls  and  one-half ;  the  recipes 
are  alike  in  other  respects.  Which  is 
correct  I " 

Quantity  of  Soda  in  Brownbread. 

Many  cooks  have  complete  success 


with  the  recipe  requiring  two  teaspoon- 
fuls of  soda:  others  say  their  bread  is 
not  light  unless  they  use  two  teaspoon- 
fuls and  one-half,  or  even  three  tea- 
spoonfuls.  In  an  article  by  Miss  Wills, 
in  the  second  number  of  this  maga- 
zine, the  recipe  was  written  with  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  soda.  Theoretically, 
when  the  sour  milk  is  thick  and 
smooth,  but  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
soda  are  required  ;  in  practice  it 
may  be  found  necessary  to  use  more, 
but  no  taste  of  soda  should  be  ap- 
parent. 


Query22i.—  H.  W.H..  WhiteHall, 
J II. :  "  What  vegetables  should  be  put  on 
to  cook  in  boiling  water,  what  in  cold 
-water,  and  why  /'* 

Cold  or    Hot    Water   in    Cooking    Veg- 
etables. 

As  a  rule,  vegetables  should  not  be 
put  to  cook  in  cold  water,  as  mineral 
salts,  nutriment,  and  flavor  are  thus 
drawn  out  and  wasted.  Strong  onions 
may  be  put  over  the  fire  in  cold  water ; 
when  the  water  boils,  drain  and  cook 
in  boiling  water.  .  Thus  they  are  more 
delicate.  Old  potatoes  and  dried  leg- 
umes (peas,  beans,  and  lentils)  that 
have  lost  moisture  are  improved  by 
soaking  in  cold  water  before  cooking, 
and,  if  not  thus  treated,  should  be  put 
on  to  cook  in  cold  water.  Green 
vegetables,  if  wilted,  are  improved  by 
standing  a  time  in  cold  water ;  but 
these  should  be  put  to  cook  in  boiling 
water,  to  which  salt  is  added,  to  bring 
out  or  help  retain  the  green  color. 
Except  in  the  case  of  cabbage,  and 
other  vegetables  of  the  same  family, 
but  a  small  quantity  of  water  should 
be  used  in  cooking  vegetables,  and 
that,  whenever  practicable,  should  be 
served  with  the  vegetable. 


46 


THE   BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


Qv  ery  222.  —  Mrs.  J.  S.  F,  Geneseo, 
N.   Y. :  "  A  recipe  for  prune  pudding." 

Prime  Whip. 
This  recipe  is  not  new,  but  is  one  of 
the  best  in  common  use.  Beat  the 
whites  of  five  eggs  until  foamy ;  add 
one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  cream-of- 
tartar  and  beat  until  dry ;  then  beat 
in.  gradually,  half  a  cup  of  powdered 
sugar  and  one-fourth  a  pound  of  prunes, 
cooked,  stoned,  and  chopped.  Turn 
into  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  set  into 
a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  twenty 
or  twenty-live  minutes.  Serve  at  once 
in  the  baking-dish,  with  whipped  cream, 
or  a  cold  boiled  custard. 


Query  223.  —  S.  C.  If.,  New  Bruns- 
wick, N.J.:  "  Recipes  for  egg  /oaf  choc- 
olate filling  and  frosting,  largely  made 
of  butter  and  used  for  layer  cakes.  Also, 
temperature  of  oven  for  macaroons.'" 
Egg  Loaf  with  Asparagus. 

Butter  thoroughly  a  charlotte  mould, 
pint  size ;  decorate  the  bottom  and 
sides  with  asparagus  tips,  cooked  and 
thoroughly  dried.  Prepare  one  cup  of 
white  sauce  with  two  tablespoonfuls, 
each,  of  butter  and  flour,  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  paprica, 
and  one-half  a  cup,  each,  of  stock  and 
cream.  Add  to  the  sauce  four  well- 
cooked  eggs,  the  whites  chopped  fine 
and  the  yolks  pressed  through  a  sieve, 
the  yolks  of  six  raw  eggs,  beaten,  a 
few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  one- 
fourth  a  teaspoonful.  each,  of  salt  and 
white  pepper.  Turn  the  mixture  care- 
fully into  the  decorated  mould ;  set  the 
mould  into  a  pan  of  hot  water  and 
cook,  in  a  moderate  oven,  about  thirty 
minutes,  or  until  the  centre  is  firm. 
Turn  the  loaf  on  to  a  hot  dish  ;  ar- 
range about  it  croustades  of  bread, 
and  upon  these  put  the  rest  of  the  as- 


paragus, cut  in  bits,  and  reheated  in  a 
pint  of  sauce  made  with  the  water  in 
which  the  asparagus  was  cooked,  one 
cup  of  cream  or  milk,  and  one-fourth 
a  cup,  each,  of  butter  and  flour.  Sea- 
son to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  and  nut- 
meg, if  desired. 

Chocolate  Filling  and  Frosting. 

Mix  one-fourth  a  cup  of  flour  with 
half  a  cup  of  sugar,  scant ;  add  one 
egg  and  beat  thoroughly,  then  stir  into 
one  cup  of  scalded  milk  and  cook  ten 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally;  set  aside 
to  become  cool.  Wash  one  cup  of 
butter  and  beat  into  it  one  cup  of 
powdered  sugar  ;  add  to  the  first  mix- 
ture, with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
and  one  square  and  a  half  of  melted 
chocolate.  Spread  when  cool. 
Temperature  of  Oven  for  Macaroons. 

A  moderate  temperature  is  required, 
a  little  higher  than  for  meringues. 


Query  224.  —  M.  J.  G..  Concord, 
X.  H. :   "  Do  you  know  how  the  orange 

cake  in *s  window  is  made  ?     Is  the 

cake  cut  into  pieces  before  frosting  /     Is 
the  frosting  colored  with  paste  ?  " 
Orange   Cake. 

Bake  a  sponge  cake  in  two  layers  ; 
put  oranges,  peeled  and  thinly  sliced, 
between  the  layers.  Spread  the  top 
with 

ORANGE    FROSTING. 

Let  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  an 
orange  stand  in  one  teaspoonful  of  al- 
cohol, a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice, 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  orange  juice 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Strain  and  add, 
gradually,  to  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  slightly 
beaten ;  then  stir  in  confectioners' 
sugar,  until  the  mixture  is  of  the  right 
consistency  to  spread.  Cut  the  cake 
into  pieces  for  serving  before  the  frost- 
ing becomes   dry.     Use  a  thin,  sharp 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


47 


knife,  dipped  in  hot  water  and  wiped 
dry,  or  use  a  saw-knife.  We  find 
yellow  paste  not  as  satisfactory 
as  the  other  colors.  It  gives  a  bitter 
taste. 


Query  225.  —  E.  E.  C,  Boston, 
Mass.:  "  Recipe  for  mocha  cakes  ;  they 
are  served  in  several  of  the  restaurafits 
here  ;  also,  give  directions  for  the  use  of 
the  tube  in  frosting." 

Mocha  Cake. 

Bake  any  sponge-cake  mixture  in 
round  layer-cake  pans  ;  put  the  layers 
together  with  a  thin  layer  of  frosting 
between ;  spread  the  sides  of  the  cake 
with  frosting,  and  cover  with  cocoanut, 
grated.  Put  the  rest  of  the  frosting 
into  a  pastry  bag  with  star  tube  at- 
tached ;  twist  the  large  end  of  the  bag 
tightly  in  the  left  hand,  pressing  the 
mixture  towards  the  tube,  and  with  the 
right  guide  the  tube  as  in  writing.  In 
this  way  coil  the  icing  round  and  round 
the  top  of  the  cake  until  the  whole  sur- 
face is  covered  ;  finish  the  centre  with 
stars  and  candied  cherries.  To  make 
the  stars:  hold  the  bag  in  an  upright 
position,  point  downward,  press  out  a 
little  of  the  icing,  then  push  the  tube 
down  gently  and  raise  it  quickly  to 
break  the  flow. 

Mocha  EH  ling  or  Frosting. 

Wash  out  the  salt  from  a  cup  of  but- 
ter and  beat  to  a  cream  ;  add  gradually 
one  pound  (two  cups  and  a  half)  of 
powdered  sugar,  and  beat  to  a  smooth 
cream ;  then  add,  gradually,  one 
tablespoonful  of  essence  of  coffee. 
Chocolate  filling  for  mocha  cake  is 
given  in  answer  to  Query  222. 
Either  of  these  icings,  omitting  the 
coffee  or  chocolate,  may  be  tinted 
with  color  paste  and  flavored  to  cor- 
respond. 


Query  226.  —  Mrs.  E.  G.A..  Denver, 
Colo.:  "How  to  use  yolks  of  eggs  left 
when  making  angel  cake." 

How  Use  Yolks  of  Eggs  Left  Over. 

Make  a  thick  boiled  custard  (six 
yolks  to  a  pint  of  milk) ;  serve  in  cups. 
Use  fewer  yolks  and  serve  as  a  sauce 
to  blanc-mange  or  hot  boiled  rice. 
Boiled  salad  dressing :  Have  ready  a 
saucepan  of  hot  water  and,  when  the 
eggs  are  broken,  drop  the  yolks  into 
it ;  let  stand  without  boiling  until  hard  ; 
serve  one  yolk  in  each  portion  of  soup, 
or  serve,  sifted,  in  potato  salad,  or  on  the 
top  of  slices  of  cream  toast,  or  warmed- 
over  meat  or  fish.  Beat  the  yolks  un- 
til well  mixed,  cover  closely,  and  set 
aside  in  an  earthen  cup  or  bowl ;  add 
a  tablespoonful  to  a  cup  of  white  sauce, 
or  to  a  pint  of  cream  soup,  or  use  in 
hollandaise  sauce  for  fish,  cauliflower, 
asparagus,  or  cold  meat. 

Query  227. — Mrs.  f.  W.,  Cathla- 
7net,  Wash.  :  "  What  foods  can  be  given 
to  one  who  suffers  from  indigestion  <  The 
food  ferments,  causing  severe  pain  and  a 
large  amoimt  of  gas." 

Eood  for  Eerinentative  Dyspepsia. 

We  can  answer  only  on  general  prin- 
ciples. There  can  be  no  true  diges- 
tion in  the  presence  of  fermentation, 
hence  we  should  eliminate,  as  far  as 
possible,  all  ferment-producing  foods, 
i.  e.,  bread  made  with  yeast,  vinegar, 
sweet  dishes,  especially  preserves  and 
canned  fruit,  syrup,  tea  and  coffee 
when  sweetened,  lettuce,  and  cress. 
Salt  codfish,  bacon,  well-cooked  meat 
(not  veal),  and  fish,  green  vegetables, 
cooked,  other  than  cabbage  and  cauli- 
flower, baked  potatoes,  celery,  pop- 
overs,  and  baking-powder  preparations 
(with  discretion),  and  hot  water  in  place 
of  tea    and    coffee,  are    to    be  recom- 


4« 


THE  BOSTOX   COOKIXG -SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


mended.  Cereals,  unsweetened,  may 
be  used,  sparingly  by  some,  and  not 
at  all  by  others. 


Query  228.—  G.  IV.  G.,  Portland, 
Me. :  "  Please  tell  us  how  to  make  good, 
sweet  bread." 

Good.  Sweet  Bread. 

Yeast  bread  is  made  light  by  fer- 
mentation. The  ferment,  yeast,  is  in- 
troduced into  the  flour  and  liquid.  A 
yeastcake  —  the  form  of  yeast  most 
universally  in  use  —  is  a  collection  of 
plants,  produced  by  cultivation,  and 
stored  in  such  a  manner  that  their 
growth  is  checked  for  the  time  being. 
Being  introduced  into  a  mixture  of 
flour  and  liquid,  under  proper  condi- 
tion of  heat  and  moisture,  they  feed 
upon  the  starch  of  the  flour,  bud.  and 
the  buds  quickly  become  independent 
plants,  which  in  turn  bud  and  send 
out  other  buds. 

The  starch  of  the  flour  is  first  changed 
by  the  plants  to  sugar  and  the  sugar  to 
alcohol  and  carbon  di-oxide  ( carbonic - 
acid  gas) ;  the  gas,  being  light,  tries  to 
escape,  but  is  held  by  the  tenacious,  elas- 
tic gluten,  thus  puffing  up  or  making  the 
bread  light.  When  the  bread  has  been 
made  light,  we  no  longer  wish  the  al- 
cohol and  di-oxide.  and  get  rid  of  them 
by  baking  the  bread.  To  do  this  ef- 
fectually, the  temperature  at  the  centre 
of  the  loaf  should  reach  212°  Fahr. 
This  cannot  be  secured  in  an  oven 
whose  temperature  is  much  lower  than 
500"  Fahr. 

Now.  the  greater  the  number  of 
yeast  plants,  the  more  quickly,  other 
conditions  being  favorable,  will  the 
bread  be  lifted  up ;  and,  in  making 
bread,  we  take  this  fact  into  consid- 
eration. 

If    bread    is    to    be   made    quickly. 


two.  even  three,  compressed  yeast- 
cakes  may  be  used  to  a  pint  of  liq- 
uid. If  dough  is  to  be  mixed  at 
night  and  baked  with  the  first  fire  in 
the  morning,  the  quantity  of  yeast  may 
be  reduced  to  one-third  a  cake  to  a 
pint  of  liquid.  The  longer  time  of 
fermentation,  as  a  rule,  gives  the  best- 
flavored  bread;  for  yeasts,  if  time  be 
allowed,  bring  about  other  changes 
than  that  of  sugar  to  alcohol  and  car- 
bon di-oxide, — changes  that  give  the 
flavor  and  aroma  that  we  are  accus- 
tomed to  associate  with  good  bread. 
In  using  a  large  amount  of  yeast,  we 
may  improve  the  flavor  of  the  bread 
at  the  expense  of  time  by  •'  cutting 
down  "  the  bread  once  or  twice  when 
it  has  risen  to  double  its  bulk. 

Reeipe  for  Two  Loaves  of  Bread. 

To  two  cups  of  scalded  milk,  or 
boiled  water,  or  one  cup  of  milk  and 
one  of  water,  in  a  mixing-bowl,  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  and.  when  the  liquid 
is  lukewarm,  from  one -third  to  two 
whole  yeastcakes  (as  above),  dis- 
solved in  half  a  cup  of  water,  boiled 
and  cooled.  With  a  broad -bladed 
knife  cut  and  mix  in  sifted  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough  (about 
seven  cups).  Knead  until  the  dough 
is  elastic,  cover,  and  set  to  rise  in  a 
temperature  of  about  70-  Fahr.  When 
the  dough  has  doubled  in  bulk,  "  cut 
down  "  and  shape  into  four  pieces  and 
set  to  rise  in  two  buttered  pans.  When 
it  has  again  nearly  doubled  its  bulk, 
bake  one  hour.  The  temperature  of 
the  oven  should  be  high  enough  to 
brown  the  top,  at  least  in  spots,  within 
fifteen  minutes. 


Query  229. —  Mrs.   A.    Z.    T.,  De- 
troit,   Mich.:    "  Where    can    the  dinner 

chimes  mentioned  in  your    magazine    be 
purchased,  and  -what  is  the  cost  /  '" 
Cost  of  Dinner  Chimes. 
The  chimes  referred  to  may  be  found 
at    Japanese    stores ;     they    cost    from 
52. 50  to  Si  2.00. 


News  and  Notes, 


Address  communications  to  Editor  of  the  I  SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE,  22  School  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


Miss  Fannie  M.  Farmer  has  just 
finished  courses  of  lessons  to  nurses 
at  Whidden  Hospital.  Everett.  Mass., 
Burbank  Hospital,  Fitchburg.  Mass., 
and  Elliot  Hospital.  Manchester.  X.  H. 


Mr.  C.  E.  A.  Winslow,  of  the  Insti- 
tute of  Technology,  gives  the  lectures 
on  sanitation  this  year  to  the  Xormal 
Class  of  the  Boston  Cooking-School. 


Last  December.  Miss  Mary  J.  Gan- 
non, Class  of  ?9j.  opened  a  cooking- 
school  at  Concord,  X.  H.  Miss  Gan- 
non has  been  elected,  also,  to  teach 
cookery  in  the  public  schools  of  that 
city.  A  course  of  six  demonstrations 
on  breakfast  and  dinner  dishes,  given 
in  the  early  spring,  was  well  attended. 


Miss  Sarah  E.  Craig,  graduate  of 
the  Boston  Cooking-School,  makes  a 
specialty  of  cooking  by  gas.  She  has 
lectured  on  modern  cooking  in  the 
cities  of  many  states.  Last  winter 
Miss  Craig  completed  arrangements 
for  conducting  private  classes  in  Cin- 
cinnati, O.,  and  gave  special  lessons  in 
any  kind  of  cookery  by  appointment. 


Lectures  by  Miss  Stella  Downing. 
Oneida.  X.  Y..  Class  of  '96,  before  the 
Women's  Club  of  Erie.  Pa.,  have  been 
reported. 


giving  their  first  formal  demonstration 
lectures  in  cookery,  on  Wednesday  and 
Friday  mornings.  These  lectures  will 
be  continued  throughout  the  remainder 
of  the  year.  In  the  afternoons  of  these 
days,  the  lectures  on  invalid  cookery 
are  given  before  the  students  from  the 
Medical  School  of  Harvard  College. 


a   new  hook. 
Mrs.    Janet    M.   Hill,  editor   of    the 

OX     COOKIXG-SCHOOL     MAGAZINE, 

has  nearly  ready  for  publication  a 
book  entitled  "  Salads,  Sandwiches, 
and  Chafing-dish  Dainties."  The  au- 
thor designs  to  make  this  the  most 
practical  and  complete  work  on  these 
subjects  that  has  yet  been  prepared. 
The  book  will  contain  about  two  hun- 
dred and  fifty  pages,  and  be  illustrated 
by  many  half-tones  of  utensils  and  ac- 
tual dishes  prepared  by  the  author. 

The  volume  will  be  gotten  up  in  the 
best  style  and  manner  known  to  the 
printer's  art.  and  issued  from  the  press 
in  September  or  early  in  October  of 
the  present  year. 


At  the  Boston  Cooking-School,  the 
vouns:  women  of  the  Xormal  Class  are 


The  cooking- school  at  St.  John. 
X.  B..  under  the  auspices  of  the  King's 
Daughters,  has  just  closed  a  successful 
season.  The  course  included  practice 
class  work,  demonstration  lessons,  and 
invalid  cooking.  Miss  McPherson.  the 
instructor,  at  the  close  of  the  school, 
gave  a  course  of  lessons  to  the  nurses 
at  the  St.  John  City  Hospital. 


5o 


THE    BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


Miss  Emily  Marion  Colling,  who  has 
gained  great  popularity  as  a  lecturer, 
has  been  appointed  to  succeed  Mrs.  S. 
T.  Rorer  as  teacher  of  domestic  sci- 
ence at  Mt.  Gretna,  the  Pennsylvania 
Chautauqua. 

AN    ARMY    COOKING-SCHOOL. 

A  class  for  the  instruction  of  hos- 
pital-corps men  in  preparing  food  for 
the  sick  has  been  organized  at  the 
Washington  arsenal.  The  work  is  to 
be  carried  on  under  military  regula- 
tions, and  the  aim  is  to  provide  event- 
ually a  corps  of  men  who  can  prepare 
for  the  sick  such  food  as  is  available. 
The  plan  involves  also  the  establish- 
ment of  a  school  or  schools  for  army 
cooks,  to  be  conducted  by  regular  offi- 
cers at  some  convenient  recruiting - 
station. 


disposal,  and  modern  systems  of  warm- 
ing, ventilation,  cold  storage,  etc. 


A  summer  course  on  sanitary  science 
and  practical  sanitation  will  be  con- 
ducted at  the  Massachusetts  Institute 
of  Technology,  by  C.  E.  A.  Winslow, 
Graduate  Scholar  in  Biology  :  — 

(a)  Normal  and  abnormal  life ;  the  causes 
of  disease  ;  the  germ  theory  of  fermentation 
(zymosis)  and  disease. 

(/>)  Public  health  problems ;  water  supply ; 
milk  supply;  ice  supply;  disposal  of  sewage, 
garbage,  and  refuse. 

(c)  Household  sanitation ;  heating,  ventila- 
tion, and  lighting  ;  sanitary  aspects  of  plumb- 
ing. 

(d)  Disinfection;  epidemiology;  vital  statis- 
tics ;  the  results  of  sanitation. 

The  course  will  be  accompanied  by 
laboratory  work,  and  by  the  actual 
inspection  and  examination  of  various 
systems  of   sewage  disposal,    garbage 


"THEN  SHE  SANG,  OH,   MOST   DIVINELY." 

Those  possessing  fine  voices  cannot 
be  self-indulgent  in  eating  and  drink- 
ing. Adelina  Patti,  it  is  said,  eats  no 
pastry,  and  has  followed  a  very  strict 
rule  in  diet  for  years,  while  providing 
every  luxury  for  her  guests. 

A  friend  who  took  passage  on  the 
same  boat  as  the  famous  opera  singer, 
Miss  Thursby,  said  she  drank,  by  ad- 
vice of  her  physician,  in  place  of  wine, 
the  following  beverage :  Dissolve  a 
large  teaspoonful  of  orange  marmalade 
in  a  glass  of  water  ;  lemon  juice  can  be 
added,  or  a  slice  of  pineapple  or  ba- 
nana, if  desired,  or  a  strawberry.  Add 
cracked  ice. 

According  to  a  New  York  paper, 
Lilli  Lehman,  who  is  a  vegetarian,  says 
that  her  daily  bill  of  fare  is  about  as 
follows  :  A  glass  of  milk  at  7.30  a.  m., 
with  a  little  rye  bread,  and  sometimes 
fruit ;  at  noon,  vegetable  or  rice  soup 
and  a  plate  of  vegetables ;  at  4  p.m., 
a  cup  of  milk ;  and  at  7  o'clock, 
some  green  r salad  and  two  eggs,  or 
some  cheese.  Now  and  then  during 
the  day  she  eats  fruit.  When  she  is 
to  sing  at  night  she  takes  a  plate  of 
rice  at  noon,  and  eats  nothing  more 
until  after  the  opera,  generally  about 
midnight.  She  says  that  when  an  old 
friend  comes  to  see  her,  as  Teresa  Car- 
rerio,  for  instance,  they  take  a  glass  of 
beer  together ;  but  she  very  rarely  in- 
dulges in  even  so  mild  a  dissipation  as 
that. 


ihe   Coming  Infantry 


Eskay's  Albumenized  Food. 

A  delicious  and  nutritious  Food,  furnishing  Ideal 
Nouribhment  from  Infancy  to  Old  Age.  Contains  both 
animal  and  vegetable  matter,  viz.  :  Egg-albumen  com- 
bined with  Cereals;  differing  from  all  other  foods. 

CAPTAIN  BRADY,  U.S.A.,  writes.  Jan.  18,  '99: 
"Our  buy,  eighteen  months  old,  had  as  his  regular 
article  of  diet  during  our  stay  in  Santiago  de  Cuba 
ESKAY'S  FOOD,  and  1  regard  this  Food  as  hav- 
ing: been  the  means  of  preserving  his  life." 

Free  samples  upon  application  to 

SMITH,  KLINE  &  FRENCH  CO.,  Philadelphia. 


-.  Atbiimenizecf  M 
FOOD  m 

INFANJT5  *°"olNVALlD5 


UUttUtl-       "OIUMI      UJUIHWl     l/l!!' 


;.^MiffIff  M,„f§Ifffiff.ffllf 

i  Your 


Kitchen 


is  not  up  to  date  in  comfort  or 
economy,  unless  you  have  that 
wonder  of  a  kitchen  helper,  the 
Glenwood  Home  Grand,  the  latest 


GLENWOOD 

\\  eir  Stove  Company,  Taunton,  Mass. 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


5i 


THE  HOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


BOOK  REVIEWS. 


LEFT-OVERS.  By  Sarah  Tyson  Ro- 
rer.  Cloth.  Trice,  50  cents,  Phil- 
adelphia :  Arnold  &  Co. 

The  subject  of  this  little  Volume  is  a 
favorite  one  among  teachers  of  cook- 
ery. From  an  economical  point  of 
view,  it  concerns  every  household.  As 
a  means  of  displaying  skill  and  taste  in 
the  preparation  of  dainty  and  savory 
viands,  it  has  always  a  certain  fascina- 
tion. 

In  general,  twice-cooked  meats  are 
in  ill  repute  ;  and  yet  how  often  the 
most  appetizing  and  satisfactory  dishes 
are  the  outcome  of  left-overs  deftly 
handled ! 

This  book  contains  some  new  and 
valuable  matter, —  rare  and  homely  ways 
and  means  of  transforming  '  bits  left 
over  into  palatable,  sightly,  and  whole- 
some dishes  for  the  next  day's  lunch- 
eon or  supper.'  The  author's  fertile 
resources  in  all  culinary  matters  are 
well  known.  This  effort,  in  a  special 
and  popular  department  of  cooking, 
ought  to  be  of  immediate  interest  and 
service  to  every  prudent  and  thought- 
ful housekeeper. 


THE  VEST-POCKET  PASTRY  BOOK. 
By  John  E.  Meister.  Price,  $1.00. 
Chieacjo:  John  Willy,  Publisher,  325 
Dearborn  Street. 

The  author  is  a  practical  pastry 
cook  and  baker,  with  an  established 
reputation  for  the  general  excellence 
of  his  work.  His  book  contains  a  se- 
ries of  five  hundred  recipes  for  breads, 
cakes,  pies,  puddings,  creams,  ices,  jel- 
lies, etc.,  and  is  especially  adapted  to 
the  requirements  of  hotels,  restaurants, 
bakeries,  clubs,  etc. 


Presented  in  a  form  as  condensed  as 
possible,  the  work  is  of  great  merit 
and  value  as  a  handy  and  reliable  com- 
panion, the  special  service  for  which 
it  was  designed.  A  full  index  com- 
pletes a  very  convenient  and  useful 
manual  for  reference. 

The  book  is  neatly  and  plainly 
printed  on  linen  paper,  and  bound  in 
full  leather.  In  size  it  is  suitable  for 
carrying  in  the  vest  pocket. 


THE  AMERICAN  SALAD  BOOK.  By 
Maximilian  De  Loup.  Cloth.  Price, 
$1.25.  Asbnry  Park,  N.J. :  George 
R.  Knapp. 

By  consensus  of  opinion  among 
cooks,  salads  are  a  wholesome  dish. 
With  equal  unanimity  they  are  re- 
garded as  palatable  and  nutritious  con- 
stituents of  an  average  dietary. 

On  account  of  the  great  variety  of 
materials  from  which  salads  can  be  con- 
cocted,—  and  no  land  affords  greater 
variety  than  our  own,  —  certainly  they 
might  well  be  made  a  simple  and  inex- 
pensive luxury,  and  appear  much  more 
frequently  upon  the  tables  of  all  classes. 
Undoubtedly  it  is  true,  too,  that,  with 
the  masses  on  this  side  of  the  Atlantic, 
they  have  not,  as  yet,  become  a  com- 
mon or  highly  acceptable  dish.  Re- 
gardless of  their  hygienic  value,  larger 
information  seems  to  be  needed  in  re- 
gard to  their  formation  and  prepara- 
tion. This  want  "  The  American  Salad 
Book "  is  admirably  adapted  to  meet, 
inasmuch  as  it  furnishes,  in  an  attrac- 
tive form,  a  "  most  complete,  original, 
and  useful  collection  of  salad  recipes." 
These  recipes  have  been  collected 
from  all  parts  of  the  world,  sifted, 
tested,  and  made  usable  in  the  average 
household. 

The  book  contains,  also,  reliable 
though  brief  information  and  sugges- 
tions about  salad  accompaniments,  con- 


A  Perfect  Breakfast 

Breakfast  has  to  supply  the 
brain  and  muscle  for  the  hus- 
band's daily  battle.  It  must  con- 
tain brain  and  nerve  food.  It 
must  he  a  tbsue  builder*  It  must 
be  easy  to  cook  and  easy  to  di- 
gest To  be  just  right  it  must 
include  Quaker  Oats. 

THE  FASY  FOOD 

Quaker  Oats 

THE  WORLD'S  BREAKFAST 


ACCEPT  NO  SUBSTITUTE 


*  f&  ft.  %  *  %.  m  W 


-rtnn  MATURED  Ba&i* 


BORDEN 


BRAND, 

Condensed  Milk- 

Borden's  Condensed  Milk  Co.,  N.  Y. 


BR.  HUBBARD'S 


Trade 


Mark. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention 


VEGETABLE 
GERMICIDE. 

The    Standard   and    Original. 

This  compound  has  proved  the  most  effective  agent 
known  to  science  for  the  cure  of  DIPHTHERIA,  Bron- 
chitis, Tonsilitis,  Pneumonia,  Asthma,  Croup,Whoop- 
ing  Cough,  Catarrh,  Hay  Fever.  For  Cuts,  Wounds, 
Sores,  Ulcers,  Sprains,  Burns,  Scalds,  Bites  of  Insects, 
etc.,  for  Scarlet  Fever,  Measles,  and  all  contagious 
diseases,  it  has  no  equal.  One  trial  will  convince  the 
most  skeptical.    Indispensable  in  every  household. 

For  Sale  by  all  Druggists,  or 

J.   HUBBARD  &  CO. 

12  G  FRANKLIN  AVE.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 

The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine, 


52 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


diments,  dressings,  and  sauces,  —  the 
mixing,  decorating,  and  garnishing  of 
salads. 

A  serviceable  work,  and  timely  in 
purpose,  viz.,  to  provide  a  means  of 
teaching  how  to  cultivate  a  taste  for 
wholesome  green  foods  in  their  sea- 
son, and  even  to  learn  to  prefer  them 
to  more  heavy  and  bulky  materials. 


WOMEN  AND  ECONOMICS.  By 
Charlotte  Perkins  Stetson.  Cloth, 
;U0  pages.  Price,  $1.50.  boston  : 
Small,  Maynard  ik  Co. 

This  is,  in  every  sense,  a  remarkable 
book.  The  reader  who  takes  up  the 
volume  expecting  to  find  an  essay  on 
matters  of  every-day  concern  in  the 
household,  as  the  latter  is  at  present 
constituted,  will  be  likely  to  be  sur- 
prised or  disappointed.  It  deals  with 
the  subtlest  and  most  far-reaching  ques- 
tions of  economics,  It  is  none  other 
than  a  comprehensive  "  study  of  the 
economic  relation  between  men  and 
women  as  a  factor  in  social  evolution." 

The  tenor  or  character  of  the  book 
is  no  less  strange,  novel,  or  satirical 
than  that  of  Edward  Bellamy's  "  Look- 
ing Backward."  The  theory  advanced 
certainly  will  appear  new  and  striking 
to  many ;  it  is  fearlessly  maintained 
by  a  brilliant  display  of  vast  learning 
and  the  keenest  logic.  Every  page 
is  packed  with  studied  thoughts  and 
bright  expressions.  The  chapters  are 
almost  surfeited  with  ideas. 

Space  will  not  permit  us  here  to 
attempt  an  analysis  of  the  book,  or  to 
give  the  details  of  its  contents.  It  is 
an  effort  to  point  out  the  evils  that 
result  from  the  false  economic  relation 
between  the  sexes, —  evils  that  have 
arisen  largely  on  account  of  the  de- 
pendent position  woman  has  occupied 
in  the  past,  and  by  which  she  is  still 
trammelled,  though  the  day  of  her  in- 
dependence is  beginning  to  dawn.  If 
the  theory  set  forth  be  true,  the  argu- 
ment would  seem  conclusive.  If  it  be 
a  somewhat  partial  and  prejudicial  pre- 
sentation of  existing  social  conditions, 
as  we  are  inclined  to  suspect,  still  it  is 


the  most  acute  and  cogent  dissertation 
that  has  been  written  on  the  subject. 

It  must  suffice  us  to  state  here  that  the 
special  aim  of  the  author,  in  her  own 
language,  is  "  to  reach  the  thinking 
women  of  to-day,  and  urge  upon  them 
a  new  sense,  not  only  of  their  social 
responsibility  as  individuals,  but  of 
their  measureless  racial  importance  as 
makers  of  men.  It  is  hoped,  also, 
that  the  theory  advanced  will  prove 
sufficiently  suggestive  to  give  rise  to 
such  further  study  and  discussion  as 
shall  prove  its  error  or  establish  its 
truth." 


COCOA  AND  CHOCOLATE:  A 
SHOKT  HISTOKY  OF  THEIK 
PRODUCTION  AND  USE.  Quarto. 
72  pages.  Illustrated.  Boston  : 
Walter  Baker  &  Co.,  Limited. 

This  handsome  little  work  contains 
a  large  amount  of  valuable  and  in- 
teresting matter  relating  to  the  cocoa 
tree  and  its  fruit,  the  early  use  of  cocoa 
and  chocolate,  and  their  food  value 
as  determined  by  distinguished  chem- 
ists and  physicians.  In  conclusion,  a 
sketch  is  given  of  the  famous  house  of 
Walter  Baker  &  Co.,  the  oldest  and 
largest  establishment  of  its  kind  on 
this  continent.  Some  copies  of  rare, 
old  prints  are  introduced  into  the  text, 
and  the  various  stages  of  picking,  cur- 
ing, and  preparing  the  fruit  for  domes-, 
tic  use  are  represented  by  engravings 
from  photographs  taken  in  the  West 
Indies,  Ceylon,  and  at  the  mills  in  Dor- 
chester. 


Headache 

Horsford's  Acid  Phosphate 

prevents  and  alleviates  Headache 
arising  from  a  disordered  stomach 
or  that  of  nervous  origin. 

Taken  before  retiring,  quiets  the  nerves 
and  induces  refreshing  sleep, 

For  nale  l>.r    Druggists. 


When  you  write  Advertisers, please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Perfect 
Liquid 


e, 

possesses  a  charm  on  which 
Cupid  can  rely.  It  makes  the 
teeth  pearly  white  ;  adds  a  pleas- 
ing fragrance  to  the  breath ; 
dainty,  delicious,  soothing  Rubi- 
foam. 

Price,  25  cents.  At  druggists. 
Sample  vial  postpaid  on  receipt 
P,of  2-cent  stamp. 

Address  E.  W.  Hoyt  &  Co.,  Lowell,  Mass. 
Proprietors  Hoyt's  German  Cologne. 


A  Pleasant  Kitchen 

Is  the  One  Where  There  Is  a 

HOME  CRAWFORD 

Range.  The  Single  Damper,  with  positions 
plainly  marked,  "Kindle,"  "Bake,"  "Check,"  makes 
it  impossible  to  blunder  in  regulat- 
ing the  fire  or  the  oven.  The  extra 
large  oven,  same  size  top  and  bot- 
tom, allowing  for  five  heights  of 
rack;  the  perfect  working  fire  grate 
—  either  plain,  triple  or  dock-ash  — 
and  the  reliable  oven-heat  gauge, 
make  it  a  home  comfort.    Descriptive  Circular  Free. 

WALKER   &    PRATT   MFG.    COMPANY, 

31=35  Union  Street,  Boston. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Household  Hints, 


Good  macaroni  has  a  yellowish  hue, 
does  not  break  while  cooking,  and 
swells  to  twice  its  bulk. 


The  colder  eggs  are  the  more  quickly 
they  will  come  to  a  froth. 


The  oil  left  from  sardines  is  an  excel- 
lent oil  for  mixing  fish  cakes,  and  saves 
butter. 


The  motto  of  an  Italian  housekeeper, 
when  cooking,  seems  to  be :  "A  little 
of  many  things,  and  not  too  much  of 
anything,  with  eternal  vigilance." 


For  cooking  purposes,  oranges  should 
be  peeled  like  apples,  the  inner  skin 
being  removed  as  well  as  the  outer. 
By  means  of  a  sharp-pointed  knife,  the 
pulp  may  then  be  slipped  out  of  each 
section,  and  the  seeds  and  tough  inner 
skin  be  avoided. 


Bread  and  cake  must  never  be  put 
away  warm  in  boxes  or  jars.  The 
steams  arising  from  it  will  make  it 
mould  quickly. 


A  little  onion  juice  will  lend  an  ap- 
petizing flavor  to  dishes  prepared  from 
left-over  meat. 


The  tea  which  is  taken  from  the 
middle  part  of  a  chest  has  always  the 
choicest  flavor,  as  keeping  it  in  the 
chest  increases  the  flavor,  by  excluding 
air.  It  is  therefore  advisable  to  buy 
tea  in  large  quantity,  when  possible. 


A  vanilla  bean,  kept  in  a  box  of 
sugar,  will  impart  a  delicate  flavor  to 
the  sugar  without  any  appreciable  waste 
of  the  bean.  This  is  practised  by 
French  cooks,  who  have  brought  econ- 
omy to  a  fine  point. 


Professor  Silkham  advocates  the 
sipping  of  water  as  a  powerful  stim- 
ulant to  the  circulation.  This  sipping 
will  often  allay  the  craving  for  alcohol 
in  those  who  are  trying  to  break  away 
from  the  drink  habit.  The  bile  is  also 
secreted  more  freely,  instead  of  accum- 
ulating in  the  system. 


Forty  Per  Cent.  Increased  Enduran<  e. 
—  A  strong  statement,  but  one  that  is  con- 
firmed daily  by  those  who  have  tried  this  new 
and  perfect  food,  —  Eskay's  Food.  As  a  deli- 
cious and  nutritious  beverage  it  is  unsurpassed  ; 
and  when  used  as  a  food  for  babies,  invalids, 
the  aged,  and  dyspeptics,  it  is  the  ideal  nour- 
ishment. Fskay's  Food  is  readily  retained 
and  digested  when  all  other  foods  fail.  Physi- 
cians recommend  it  as  a  substitute  for  tea  and 
coffee.  Send  to  Smith,  Kline  &  French  Com- 
pany, Philadelphia,  Pa.,  for  free  sample,  men- 
tioning this  magazine. 

S    ^ ^        ^^^     -t\AZO- 

-£    con*  J 

$ 

» 


DUTCH 


3 


s-tannps 


will   luiiiji 


GROOTES' 

DUTCH 


COCOA 


» 

Jj         A  "revelation  to  cocoa  consumers."  ^ 

Jl      Recipes  for  new  cocoa  uses,  by  Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill,  Eur-  J* 
J?  nished  with  each  tin.  *J 

!S       Li.  Itl.l.l.XO  ««L-  V**.,  15  Jay  St.,  New  York.     ^ 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


OSTON 
OOKIN 

cnooL 

AOAZINE 


WM^ 


KONTEN^ 


Vol.  IV. 


AUGUST,  SEPTEMBER. 


No.  2. 


The  English   Kitchen.  Caroline  Hoffman, 

The  Czar  and  Czarina  of  Russia.     Mrs.  John  A.  Logan. 
Cooking  by  Electricity.  Carmelita  Beckuith. 

QUT-OF-DOORS    FOR    THE    HoME-MaKER. 

Mary  Sargent  Hopkins. 
The  Sweetheart  of  Vegetables".  Eleanor  M.  Lucas. 
A   New   Phase  in   Dietetics.  Helen  Campbell. 

In   Peach  Season.  Kate  M.  Post. 

A  White  Sauce  and  Its  Mission.      Katherine  A.  French. 
Editorial   Department:  Janet  McKenzie  Hill. 

Aftkr-Breakfast  Chat  — Seasonable  and  Economical  Menus  for 
August— Luncheon  Dishes  for  Schools,  Stores,  etc.,  Septem- 
*  her  — Recipes  (Illustrated)  —  Queries  and  Answers— News  and 
Notes. 

(For  complete  index  see  second  and  fourth  Pages.) 


Published  Bimonthly  by 

THE    BOSTON    COOKING -SCHOOL    MAGAZINE 

Publication  Office:  22  School  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 


Copyright,  1899,  by  the  Boston  Cooking-School  Magaii 


Entered  at  Boston  Post  Office  as  second-class  matter. 


KINGSFORDS 


OSWEGO  STARCH 


FOR    OVER 

50   Years 


FOR   FOOD 


FOR    OVER 

50    Years 


Sold  all  Around  the  World. 


FOR  THE  LAUNDRY 


always  nsk.  for 

KINGSFOR'D'S  CORNSTARCH, 

The  ORIGISAL  artiele, 


ask  far  the  matchless 


PUREST        * 
STRONGEST    %        "SILVER 
BEST 


and  the  BEST. 


%      BEST      J     KINGSFORD'3  PORE  STARCH 

^A-*^f^t  for  economy  and  good  quality. 


i     T.  KINGSFORD  &  SON,  Manufacturers,  OSWEGO,  N.Y.,  U.S.  A. 


Whtnyu  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  Thk  Boston  Cooking-School  Magaxi 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


In  Preserving 

Don't  Preserve 

Poison. 


COMPLETE     INDEX. 


Extract  from  an  editorial  that  appeared  in  the  Brooklyn 
Eagle,  Sept.  26,  1S97. 
"  The  poisonous  substances  in  the  enamels  are  s,iid  to  be  " 
"  arsenic,  antimony,  and  lead.  Neither  of  these  is  nutri-  " 
"tious,  and  food  is  better  without  them.  It  may  be  that  " 
"some  of  the  slight  and  unaccountable  illnesses  that  have 
"come  to  the  people,  especially  after  eating  sour  fruits" 
"  and  vegetables  boiled  cr  stewed  in  these  dishes  —  toma-  " 
"toes,  rhubaib.  apples,  strawberries,  compounds  flavored" 
"with  lemon  —  have  their  origin  in  the  disintegration  of  "' 
"this  enamel  and  in  the  absorption  by  the  food  of  the" 
"  arsenic  or  whatsoever  else  is  employed  in  it.  Even " 
"where  the  enamel  is  commonly  applied  with  skill  and" 
"understanding,  it  may  happen  that  a  workman  may  spill  " 
"an  undue  quantity  of  poison  into  the  mixture,  or  that" 
"  the  fusing  may  be  imperfect,  and  it  does  not  take  much  " 
"arsenic  or  lead  to  cause  illness,  while  a  succession  of" 
"poisonings  may  result  in  lifelong  stomach  trouble." 


&G  Agate 


Nickel  Steel 
is  DOUBLE 
COATED,  and  guaranteed  absolutely- 
free  from  any  POISON  in  ANY 
FORM. 


Others  may  claim  purity  ; 
we  alone  substantiate  it  by 
chemists'  certificate  attach- 
ed to  each  article.  Look  for 
this  L.  &Q.  trade  mark^burnt 
in  theenamel),  if  you 
wantthekind  that 


"SAFE. 


WW 


Send  for  special  pamphlet  of  vital 
importance  to  every  housewife. 

LALANCE  &  GROSJEAN  MFG.  CO. 

New  York,     boston.     Chicago. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention 


A  New  Phase  in  Dietetics 67 

A  White  Sauce  and  Its  Mission       ...  7c 

After-Breakfast  Chat 77 

Book  Reviews 104 

Cooking  by  Electricity 5S 

Czar  and  Czarina  of  Russia,  The     .     .     .  55 

Economical  Luncheon  Dishes      ....  Si 

Editorials 74 

English  Kitchen.  The 53 

In  Peach  Season 69 

In  Reference  to  Menus 82 

Menus,  Seasonable,  for  Augus;   ....  79 

Menus,  Economical,  for  August  ....  So 

Xews  and  Notes 102 

Out  of  Doors  for  the  Home-Makei  .     .     .  62 

Queries  and  Answers:  — 

About  Croquettes 9S 

Anchovies  —  Plain  and  Stuffed    .     .    94-95 

Black  Bass.  Broiled 94 

Black  Bass.  Baked 94 

Black  Bass.  Fried  with  Bacon  ....  94 

Butter,  Why  Sticks  to  "  Butter-Hands"  97 

Breakfast  Rolls 95 

Candied  Fruit 101 

Cake.  Loaf 97 

Cake.  Citron 97 

Cake,  Cocoanut  Layer 100 

Chocolate  Fondant 97 

Chocolate  Souffle 96 

Cocoanut  Filling 10 1 

Dumplings  for  Stew 99 

Entire-Wheat  Cookies     .     .          .     .     .  9S 

Hare  Pie 96 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes 93 

How  to  Prepare  Rabbits  and  Hares  for 

Cooking 96 

How  to  Keep  Pastry  from  Purling  up   .  97 

How  to  Make  Pickles  Green  and  Crisp  93 

How  to  Drop  Fritter-Batter     ....  99 

Jelly  Roll 100 

Jelly,  Grape  and  Cherry 95 

Jelly,  Peach  and  Plum 06 

Menu  of  Luncheon  for  Ten      ....  5 

Macaroon  Souffle 96 

Oyster  Pie 98 

(Continued  over.) 
The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


CHILLED   WATERMELON. 

Cut  the  chilled  melon  in  halves,  crosswise  ;  cut  out  sec- 
tions, as  indicated  in  the  half-tone  ;  cut  down  the  remaining 
sections,  so  that  they  may  be  easily  separated  with  a  knife. 
Replace  the  pieces  or  not,  as  desired.  Serve  with  the  rind 
attached. 


s 


V 


s 


<u    ^ 


THE 


Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Vol.  IV. 


AUGUST  AND  SEPTEMBER,   1899. 


No.  2. 


THE    ENGLISH    KITCHEN. 

A  translation  from  a  German  paper. 

By    Mrs.    Caroline    Hoffman. 


Every  land,  writes  a  foreign  review, 
has  the  government  and  the  table 
which  it  deserves.  The  French  have 
the  poorest  rule,  on  the  other  hand 
the  finest  kitchen,  of  all  European 
countries,  because  the  majority  of  the 
French  are  entirely  indifferent  as  to 
politics,  but  take  a  lively  interest  in  the 
art  of  cooking. 

The  English  have  the  poorest  table 
and  the  best  government  in  the  world. 
We  will  give  them  that  satisfaction, 
because,  with  few  exceptions,  they  take 
more  interest  in  the  affairs  of  govern- 
ment than  in  the  bill  of  fare  of  the 
cook. 

In  the  comedy,  "The  Old  Monarch," 
there  is  a  scene  in  a  Paris  restaurant, 
which  shows  the  careful  consideration 
that  a  French  company  bestows  upon 
the  bill  of  fare. 

"What  have  you  to-day,  Adrien?" 
says  the  host. 

"I  have  meditated  .over  several 
things,"  answers  the  waiter. 

One  cannot  imagine  such  an  answer 
from  an  English  servant. 

Adrien  proposes  a  broth  a  la  Jeanne 


d'Arc,  upon  which  a  gentleman,  quite 
provoked,  exclaims  :  "  What !  soup  for 
lunch?" 

Adrien's  answer  is  grand, — "  Oh, 
no,  sir ;  not  soup,  but  broth.  That  is 
the  old  school.  I  remain  true  to  it. 
Broth  is  the  sustainer  of  man.  The 
great  Careme,  the  cook  of  Rothschild 
in  the  middle  of  this  century,  and 
author  of  a  classical  cook-book,  now  a 
rarity  in  the  book  market,  has  written 
a  fine  work  concerning  broths,  which  he 
calls  the  '  Portal  of  the  Temple.'  " 

This  is  no  extravagant  caricature  of 
what  a  French  cook  might  say. 

But  fancy  our  turning  in  this  way  to 
the  person  going  about  in  a  greasy, 
black  suit  and  giving,  in  pure  dialect, 
the  list  of  food  to  be  served, — "Cold 
beef  or  chicken  and  'am."  The  truth 
is,  the  English  are  indifferent  to  what 
is  put  before  them ;  they  consider  a 
lively  regard  for  food  as  bad  manners. 
This  may  be  a  remnant  of  puritan- 
ism,  manners  or  not,  it  is  certain  that 
anyone  who  speaks  of  the  art  of  cook- 
ing with  interest  and  experience  is 
looked  down  upon  as  a  glutton  by  half 


54 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL    MAGAZIXE. 


his  hearers,  by  the  other  half  as  one 
not  to  be  trusted  with  really  important 
matters. 

To  be  sure.  Dr.  Johnson  declared 
that  he  who  could  not  succeed  in  having 
his  meals  properly  prepared  deserved 
no  confidence  in  more  important  ques- 
tions in  life ;  but  Dr.  Johnson's  standard 
was  not  very  high,  and  he  was  a  queer 
fellow. 

The  common  opinion,  of  course  not 
of  the  epicure,  but  of  the  people,  holds 
that  so  long  as  there  is  enough  fur- 
nished it  is  ingratitude,  or  something 
worse,  to  complain  about  the  prepara- 
tion of  the  food. 

A  story  is  told  of  a  lawyer  in  Edin- 
burgh, of  the  new  school,  who  lectured 
the  club  waiter  regularly  about  the 
dinner.  At  last  one  of  the  older  mem- 
bers was  appointed  to  silence  the  young 
man.  by  showing  him  the  bad  manners 
evinced  by  such  devotion  to  style  of 
food.  The  complainant  explained  that 
he  was  a  man  of  fine  critical  taste  as  to 
cooking.  "  You  may  call  yourself  a 
critic  if  you  like,"  said  the  old  gentle- 
man in  Scotch  dialect,  "  I  consider  you 
nothing  but  a  glutton."  This  is  the 
general  view  of  the  man  who  attaches 
importance  to  the  preparation  of  his 
food. 

The  French  woman  does  her  part,  as 
well  as  the  man.  to  keep  the  standard 
of  the  kitchen  high. 

The  English  woman  is  as  much  to 
blame  as  the  man  that  there  is  no 
standard,  at  all,  of  the  kitchen  in 
England. 

If  a  prominent  English  woman  is 
asked  what  she  thinks  of  a  certain  res- 
taurant, she  answers,  "A  very  pretty  hall. 
I  like  the  red  draperies  very  much." 

••But  the  table,  madame, —  what  do 
you  think  of  that  ?  " 


"  Oh.  the  food  ;  I  hardly  remember 
how  that  was." 

This  pernicious  indifference  sifts 
down  from  the  master's  table,  through 
the  domestics,  to  the  kitchen.  It  is 
the  constant  experience  that  one  or 
another  celebrated  "  chef  "  is  imported 
from  France,  and  those  who  have 
known  them  in  their  native  land  are 
astonished  at  their  coldness  and  care- 
lessness in  England.  The  cause  is 
not  difficult  to  find.  The  imported 
chef  is  poorly  supported  in  the  kitchen 
and  dining-hall.  At  first,  this  distresses 
him,  until  he  realizes  that  the  guests 
have  too  much  to  do  in  observing  the 
decorations  and  one  another  to  perceive 
whether  the  food  is  hot  or  cold  ;  for 
as  long  as  the  furniture  is  handsome, 
the  company  numerous  and  agreeable, 
English  guests  are  quite  happy.  If  al- 
abaster columns  support  the  ceiling, 
the  leather  chairs  have  good  springs, 
and  there  are  plenty  of  electric  lamps, 
then  the  hotel  or  restaurant  is  consid- 
ered charming.  But  the  food  that  we 
receive  in  our  expensive  hotels,  or  in 
our  celebrated  steamboats  —  the  very 
thought  of  it  makes  one  ill ;  and  our 
clubs  are  not  much  better. 

In  private  houses,  the  same  indiffer- 
ence prevails  in  the  upper  regions,  the 
same  carelessness  below,  even  among 
the  wealthy  classes,  where  money  is  no 
object,  the  contrast  between  the  glitter 
of  the  dishes  and  the  miserably  pre- 
pared food  is  too  painful.  With  the 
exception  of  one  or  two  of  the  nobility, 
who  care  for  their  guests  in  a  princely 
manner,  the  best  cooking  is  found  in 
the  dining-halls  of  the  cosmopolitan, 
commercial  class. 

In  the  homes  of  the  higher  classes  it 
is  difficult  to  find  a  good  cook,  because 
the  English  who  seek  employment  think 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


55 


it  too  degrading  to  take  interest  in  the 
art  of  cooking. 

In  order  to  prepare  a  good  dinner 
for  eight  o'clock,  the  cook  should, 
early  in  the  afternoon,  begin,  like 
Adrien,  "  to  meditate  about  many 
things ;  "  but  she  really  begins  to  con- 
sider her  task  only  an  hour  and  a  half 
beforehand.  Besides,  she  does  not 
need  to  worry  or  take  pains,  for  the 
family  are  not  at  all  interested  in  the 
result. 

The  matter  will  never  be  better  till 
the    majority    perceive    that    a    good 


kitchen  is  an  important  factor  for 
health,  and  take  pains  that  the  cooking 
be  properly  done.  Nothing  is  more 
difficult  than  to  inspire  a  people  with  a 
certain  taste ;  but  we  believe  the  Eng- 
lish travellers  must  make  up  their 
minds  to  see  that  the  standard  of  cook- 
ery is  raised  in  their  native  land,  es- 
pecially in  the  hotels,  for  these  are 
simply  scandalous. 

We  are  really  a  great  and  good 
people,  but,  at  the  mere  thought  of 
our  national  cooking,  the  stomach 
weeps. 


THE  CZAR  AND  CZARINA   OF  RUSSIA. 

A   Domestic  Incident. 

By  Mrs.  John   A.  Logan. 


Fortunately  I  was  among  the  num- 
ber of  Americans,  who  were  interested 
spectators  on  the  occasion  of  the  coro- 
nation of  the  czar  and  czarina.  May, 
1896.  So  much  of  tragedy  has  at- 
tended the  rulers  of  Russia  that,  on  the 
part  of  the  wisest  and  best  Russians, 
constant  solicitude  for  the  safety  of 
their  sovereigns  is  ever  displayed. 
Nicholas  Alexandrovetch  —  crowned 
Nicholas  II. —  was  so  young  when  he 
came  to  the  throne  that  the  whole 
nation  was  on  the  qui  vive  as  to  how 
he  would  be  received.  The  court  was 
in  deep  mourning,  so  the  coronation 
was  deferred  for  more  than  a  year ; 
during  this  time  a  most  elaborate  pro- 
gramme had  been  formulated  by  the 
combined  wisdom  of  the  wisest  states- 
men of  Russia,  as  it  was  desirable  that 
a  deep  political  impression  should  be 
made  upon  every  class  in  the  empire. 

The     dowager     empress,     imperial 


mother  of  Nicholas,  was  highly  es- 
teemed by  the  people,  and  she,  in  turn, 
was  most  solicitous  for  her  son,  who 
at  the  time  of  his  father's  death  was 
unmarried.  Between  him  and  Victoria 
Alix  Helena  Louise  Beatrice,  daughter 
of  Louis  IV.,  Grand  Duke  of  Hesse- 
Darmstadt,  and  Princess  Alice,  favor- 
ite daughter  of  Albert  the  Good  and 
Queen  Victoria,  there  had  been  fin  ex- 
change of  sentiments  of  regard.  The 
emperor's  mother  was  very  desirous 
that  a  marriage  between  them  should 
be  celebrated  at  once,  and  called  to 
her  assistance  every  possible  influence 
to  bring  this  about.  Success  followed 
her  negotiations,  and  before  the  heavy 
pall  of  mourning  had  been  laid  aside 
Nicholas  II.  and  "  Alixy,"  as  she  was 
familiarly  called  by  her  family,  were 
married. 

From  that  moment  a  halo  of  peace 
and  love  seemed  to  encircle  the  throne 


56 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


of  Russia.  The  emperor  and  empress 
went  about  unattended,  doing  good  to 
the  poor,  visiting  hospitals  and  asylums, 
and  distributing  alms  among  the  desti- 
tute. The  spectacle  of  their  majesties 
bending  over  some  unfortunate  inmate 
of  a  hospital,  or  personally  extend- 
ing aid  and  comfort  to  mendicants,  at- 
tracted universal  attention.  Smiles  and 
salutations  greeted  them  everywhere. 
Scowls  and  dogged  indifference  no 
longer  met  the  Russian  rulers.  Neither 
the  czar  nor  the  czarina  apprehended 
danger  in  going  about  the  city  or  coun- 
try. Outriders  and  guards  were  dis- 
pensed with,  rigid  simplicity  character- 
ized everything  they  did,  and  before 
the  coronation  a  feeling  of  security  and 
good  feeling  was  established  between 
sovereigns  and  subjects. 

Invitations  to  attend  the  ceremonies 
of  the  coronation  in  Moscow  were  sent 
to  the  governors  and  people  of  every 
province  of  Russia,  as  well  as  to  the 
rulers  and  dignitaries  of  every  nation 
on  the  globe.  So  great  a  number  of 
representatives  of  crowned  heads  had 
never  before  graced  the  coronation  of 
a  Russian  monarch,  this  fact  in  itself 
signifying  that  Russia  was  at  peace 
with  all  nations.  The  multitudes  of 
people  that  came  from  every  part  of 
the  vast  realm  promised  propitiously 
for  the  young  sovereigns.  Even  the 
pilgrims  from  the  far-off  steppes  of 
Russia,  staff  in  hand,  journeyed  on 
foot  to  Moscow,  to  see  the  two  beings 
whom  they  believed  ruled  over  them 
by  divine  right. 

Every  preparation  had  been  made 
for  the  occasion,  not  only  for  the  most 
magnificent  pageant  that  was  to  dis- 
play the  power  of  the  emperor,  but  also 
for  the  entertainment  of  the  innumer- 
able thousands  who  were   to    receive 


souvenirs  from  the  emperor  and  em- 
press, as  a  token  of  their  friendly  inter- 
est in  the  humblest  peasant  in  all  Rus- 
sia. The  accident  precipitated  by  the 
eager  multitudes  to  possess  these  sou- 
venirs, in  the  early  morning  of  "  The 
People's  Day,"  was  the  sole  cloud  that 
marred  the  royal  occasion. 

For  ten  days,  ceremony  after  cere- 
mony succeeded  one  another,  each 
rivalling  its  predecessor  in  magnifi- 
cence and  gorgeousness  of  appoint- 
ment. After  the  royal  entrance  into 
the  palace  of  the  Kremlin,  the  day 
before  the  coronation,  the  people  as- 
sembled about  the  walls  and  around 
the  gates  of  that  impregnable  strong- 
hold, that  they  might  catch  glimpses 
of  the  czar  and  czarina  as  they  passed 
in  and  out,  to  attend  to  some  function, 
or  to  visit  their  precious  baby,  who 
was  esconced  in  the  Alexandre  palace, 
away  from  the  noise  and  the  excite- 
ment of  the  city.  Whenever  the  driver 
on  the  box  of  the  open  phaeton,  wherein 
sat  the  royal  pair,  turned  his  horses  to- 
ward the  Alexandre  palace,  it  was  the 
signal  for  the  wildest  cheering,  smiles 
and  salutations,  which  Nicholas  and 
Alexandre  Feodorovna  returned,  most 
graciously  bowing  right  and  left  to  the 
legions  of  people  who  followed  them 
almost  to  the  palace  gate ;  here  the 
people  would  sit  or  lie  by  the  road- 
side and  await  the  return  of  the  im- 
perial parents,  who,  by  this  exhibition 
of  devotion  to  their  offspring,  aroused 
more  enthusiasm  and  tokens  of  loyalty 
in  their  subjects  than  had  all  the  glitter 
of  the  grand  pageantry  of  their  entrance 
inside  the  gates. 

It  requires  almost  superhuman  pa- 
tience, as  well  as  ample  physical 
strength,  to  endure  the  tedious  cere- 
monies    required     by     the     Russian 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


57 


Church  on  such  occasions.  The  sad 
and  earnest  face  of  Nicholas,  and  the 
calm,  sweet  face  of  Alexandre  Feodor- 
ovna,  during  all  these  ceremonies,  im- 
pressed one  with  their  high  and  noble 
purpose,  and  their  sincerely  devout  and 
religious  characters.  The  keenest  ap- 
preciation of  the  great  responsibilities 
they  were  assuming  was  portrayed  in 
every  lineament  of  their  faces,  exciting 
pity  rather  than  envy.  Xo  one  who 
saw  the  emperor  and  empress  on  those 
eventful  days  is  surprised  that  the  em- 
peror should  have  taken  the  initiative 
in  an  effort  for  the  disarmament  of  the 
world.  He  came  to  the  throne  fully 
equipped  for  the  inauguration  of  the 
new  policies  in  the  line  of  the  present 
civilization,  which  is  incompatible  with 
the  relations  of  the  Russian  sovereign 
to  the  serf  of  the  past.  Too  great  a 
gulf  has  existed  between  them  to  ex- 
pect harmony  and  security.  One  of 
his  own  subjects  seems  to  have  anal- 
yzed the  problem  of  the  armament  of 
nations  on  a  purely  economic  basis, 
which  has  made  a  deep  impression  on 
the  emperor.  And,  in  accordance  with 
his  natural  antipathy  to  large  armies 
and  navies,  and  conflicts  with  other 
powers,  he  has  ventured  to  take  the 
first  step  toward  a  universal  peace. 

Xo  nation  has  a  larger  or  better 
army  than  that  of  Nicholas  II.  In 
organization,  discipline,  and  equipment 
it  is  unexcelled.      It  has  won  the  ad- 


miration of  the  world  on  many  a  san- 
guinary field.  He  is  not  moved  to 
take  this  step  from  any  fear  of  its  prow- 
ess, but  from  high  and  noble  impulses. 
And,  while  the  results  of  the  Peace 
Conference  at  the  Hague  may  be  in- 
significant, it  will,  beyond  question, 
emphasize  cordial  relations  between 
all  nations,  and  awaken  thought  in  the 
line  of  peaceful  arbitration  of  all  na- 
tional and  international  difficulties. 

Beyond  doubt  the  most  potent  influ- 
ence that  has  brought  the  czar  to  so 
admirable  a  frame  of  mind  emanates 
from  the  loving,  gentle,  talented,  ac- 
complished czarina ;  her  pure  mind 
and  tender  heart  could  not  contem- 
plate the  actual  condition  of  their  sub- 
jects without  commiseration  for  their 
woes,  and  a  wish  to  see  the  entire  re- 
sources and  energies  of  the  government 
put  forth  for  the  betterment  of  their 
condition.  Xeither  she  nor  the  czar 
desires  to  extend  the  boundaries  of  the 
empire,  or  to  increase  the  burdens  of 
their  people.  They  would  much  pre- 
fer to  lighten  the  load  that  weigh- 
heavily  upon  their  already  overb 
dened  subjects. 

Under  providential  guidance  may  not 
these  young  sovereigns  be  destined  to 
inaugurate  great  reforms  in  the  gov- 
ernment of  Russia,  and  to  have  their 
names  enrolled  in  history  among  those 
of  the  greatest  benefactors  of  a  hitherto 
unhappy  people  ? 


TO    AX    ASTER. 

TnOD  blossom  bright  with  autumn  dew, 
And  colored  with  the  heaven's  own  blue, 
That  openest  when  the  quiet  light 
Succeeds  the  keen  and  frosty  night. 


5» 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


COOKING  BY  ELECTRICITY. 

By  Carmelita  Beckwith. 


One  of  the  proudest  cooks  in  this 
country  is  "Tom,"  who  prepares  lunch- 
eon each  day  for  the  officers  of  a  large 
corporation.  Of  course,  there  are  other 
cooks  who  feed  famous  men ;  but  Tom 
feels  that,  in  his  position,  he  is  separate 
and  apart  from  the  rest,  because  he  is 
in  charge  of  the  company's  kitchen, 
which  is  equipped  with  electricity. 

"Pleased  to  see  yuh,  miss,"  said 
Tom,  upon  being  told  that  I  wished  to 


see  his  kitchen.  "  This  yere  is  a 
matchless  room  ! "  repeating  a  pun 
made  by  one  of  his  employers,  and 
with  a  sly  side  look,  to  see  that  I  com- 
prehended it. 

Having  smiled  at  his  joke,  and  re- 
marked upon  the  absence  of  matches, 
coalhod,  tongs,  shovel,  woodbox,  and 
the  other  attachments  tending  to  make 
a  kitchen  homelike,  Tom  was  quite 
ready  to   speak  his   mind  to  me  upon 


the  advantages  of  electricity  as  a  means 
of  cooking  food. 

"  Well,  I  s'pose  the  first  thing  you 
want  to  know  is  what  we  had  to  eat 
to-day  ? "  While  I  was  not  quite  so 
interested  in  the  articles  prepared  as 
in  the  means  of  preparation,  I  did  not 
care  to  hurt  Tom's  feelings,  and  said  I 
should  be  pleased  to  know  the  bill  of 
fare  for  that  day.  Being  a  man,  and 
cooking  for  men,  the  item  of  impor- 
tance, in  his  eyes,  was 
the  food  ready  to  be  eaten. 
';  You  see,  this  is  a 
kind  of  extra  day,  because 
the  Board  met  —  not  —  " 
he  stammered,  "  not  that 
we  do  not  always  have  a 
good  luncheon,  you  un'- 
stand,  but  there  are  not 
so  many  men  here  every 
1      day." 

From  down  the  hallway 
came  voices  of  men  min- 
gled with  the  rattle  of 
dishes,  and,  judging  from 
the  sounds,  they  were  en- 
joying the  result  of  Tom's 
labor. 
The  business-man  of  to-day  consid- 
ers the  hour  spent  in  lunching  away 
from  the  office  as  so  much  valuable 
time  wasted,  and  he  is  most  happy, 
when  he  can  eat  and  discuss  business 
matters  at  the  same  time. 

"  To-day,  as  I  was  sayin', "  Tom 
continued,  "  I  commenced  this  meal  at 
nine  o'clock,  and  at  one  they  were  a- 
sittin'  down  to  it. 

"  It  took  just  one  hour  and  twenty 


IC  STOVE. 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE. 


59 


minutes  to  roast  my  twenty- six-and-a- 
half-pound  turkey  in  that  'lectric  oven," 
and  he  pointed  lovingly  to  a  black  tin 
box  that  somewhat  resembled  an  ordi- 
nary gas  or  gasoline  stove  oven. 

"  Now,  this  was  my  bill  of  fare 
to-day,  and  they  'pear  to  be  likin'  it," 
he  chuckled.  "  Roast  turkey,  baked 
tomatoes,  fried  sweet  potatoes,  lima 
beans,  celery,  lettuce,  cranberries,  ap- 
ple pie  (five  of  'em),  coffee,  cheese, 
and  crackers. 

"  No,  I  ain't  cramped  fer  room  here," 
he  said  in  answer  to  my  question. 
"  You  should  see  my  quarters  on  board 
the  '  Witch.'  You  know,  I've  been 
Mr.  Blank's  cook  on  his  yacht  fer  a 
good  many  years,  and  this  'lectric 
kitchen  don't  need  no  room,  nohow. 
I  calc'late  that  the  space  here  is  about 
12x12,  and  I've  room  to  spare." 

It  is  a  pleasant  room,  on  the  tenth 
floor  of  the  building,  bright,  clean, 
wholesome,  and  healthy.  The  walls 
are  painted  white,  and  the  wood  trim- 
mings are  in  their  natural  state,  highly 
polished. 

The  bright  cooking  utensils  and 
clear  white  china  were  neatly  arranged 
on  shelves  behind  glass  doors  ;  al- 
though most  of  the  dishes  were  in  use 
at  this  time,  one  could  see  that  Tom 
kept  them  in  pleasing  order. 

Tom  himself,  with  his  white  cap, 
apron,  and  coat,  was  a  picture  in- 
spiring one  with  confidence  as  to  his 
ability  to  prepare  a  first-class  meal. 

From  the  large  window,  one  has  a 
good  view  of  New  York  Bay,  and  alto- 
gether it  seems  a  queer  location  for  a 
kitchen,  among  the  hustle  and  bustle 
of  lower  New  York  City. 

The  table,  on  which  the  various  elec- 
trical apparatus  for  cooking  are  placed, 
is  a  light-green,  slate  slab,  about  eight 


feet  in  length  and  three  in  width.  It 
stands  against  the  wall,  at  one  side  of 
the  room.  A  similar  slab,  standing 
upright  against  the  wall,  on  top  and 
at  right  angles  with  the  table,  and  of 
the  same  length,  serves  as  a  back 
board,  through  which  five  holes  have 
been  bored.  The  wires  carrying  the 
electric  current  from  the  power  house 
are  introduced  into  the  room  through 
these  holes,  which  are  fitted  with  re- 
ceptacles resembling  a  lamp  socket, 
familiar  to  everyone.  "  Receptacle  "  is 
the  regular  term  used  in  describing  the 
fitting.  A  "plug"  like  the  screw  of 
an  incandescent  lamp,  at  the  end  of 
an  insulated  flexible  cord,  which  is 
attached  to  the  portable  stove,  is  in- 
serted into  one  of  these  receptacles, 
and,  when  the  little  switch  on  the  stove 
is  turned  on,  the  electricity  is  carried 
to  the  stove.  In  from  four  to  fifteen 
minutes  the  stove  is  hot,  and  ready  to 
receive  any  utensil  containing  food  to 
be  cooked. 

The  smallest  electric  stove  is  about 
the  size  of  an  ordinary  range  lid.  It 
rests  on  three  feet,  about  one  inch  high, 
and  is  mounted  on  a  polished  slate  base. 
There  is  sufficient  space,  between  the 
slate  base  and  iron  disk,  to  see  the 
under  side  of  the  disk,  which  shows 
numberless  little  wires  zigzagging  over 
the  bottom.  These  wires  carry  the 
current,  but,  imbedded  in  enamel, 
they  are  completely  insulated,  and, 
therefore,  could  not  give  a  shock, 
even  if  one's  finger  should  come  in 
contact  with  them.  The  current,  pass- 
ing through  these  small  wires  em- 
bedded in  the  enamel,  heats  them  on 
account  of  their  resistance  to  the  pas- 
sage of  the  electric  current.  For  ex- 
ample, an  incandescent  lamp  is  heated 
because  of  the  resistance  of    the    fila- 


6o 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


ment  to  the  passage  of  the  current. 
Each  stove  is  fitted  with  a  plug  and 
flexible  cord,  to  connect  with  any  re- 
ceptacle, so  that  it  can  be  used  in 
any  room  where  incandescent  lamps 
are  burned.  This  makes  these  stoves 
particularly  convenient  for  persons  liv- 
ing in  modern  hotels  and  apartment 
houses. 

Another  form  of  stove  is  called  a 
"griddle,"  being  eighteen  inches  long 
and  twelve  wide.  Besides  being  useful 
as  a  griddle,  this  stove  will  heat  two 
and  three  utensils  at  one  time.  Tom 
had  his  coffee-pot.  lima  beans  and  fry- 
ing-pan, containing  the  sweet  potatoes, 
on  his  griddle.  In  its  original  capacity, 
this  griddle  is  a  delight,  as  it  can  be 
heated  to  three  different  degrees  of 
temperature ;  that  is,  only  a  small 
amount  of  current  being  turned  on,  the 
surface  is  moderately  hot,  and  with 
more  current  it  becomes  hot,  and,  when 
the  current  is  turned  on  to  its  full  ex- 
tent, the  heat  is  intense,  as  electricity 
is  capable  of  producing  the  greatest 
known  heat.  The  special  advantage 
of  an  electric  griddle  is  that,  the  heat 
being  even  and  constant  at  any  one 
of  three  degrees,  cakes  may  be  baked 
all  day  long,  and  they  will  be  uniform 
in  quality,  nicely  and  evenly  browned, 
be  they  rice,  wheat,  or  buckwheat. 
The  broiler  is  similar  to  the  griddle, 
except  that  it  is  smaller  and  the  sur- 
face is  fluted  to  a  small  groove,  run- 
ning around  it,  to  catch  and  preserve 
the  meat  juice. 

The  electrical  oven,  which  in  Tom's 
kitchen  stands  at  the  end  of  the  table, 
is  made  of  double  block  tin,  with  an 
interlining  of  asbestos,  which  serves  to 
keep  the  heat  inside.  The  wires  run 
between  the  asbestos  and  lining,  the 
asbestos  lining  serving  to  keep  the  heat 


inside.  The  heat  being  steady  at  any 
one  of  three  different  degrees,  it  can 
always  be  depended  upon  ;  so,  after 
one  trial  at  a  certain  degree  of  temper- 
ature, the  operator  may  be  sure  that 
the  result  will  always  be  the  same. 
That  is  to  say,  it  will  always  take  just 
a  certain  length  of  time  to  bake  angel 
cake,  roast  a  piece  of  meat  of  certain 
weight,  and  bread  may  always  be  ex- 
pected to  come  out  o'f  the  oven  as  near 
perfect  as  the  ingredients  will  allow. 
To  indicate  the  degree  of  temperature 
of  the  oven,  an  automatic  thermometer 
is  inserted  in  the  oven  door.  The 
temperature  is  regulated  by  a  switch. 

Meat  roasted  in  an  electric  oven 
has  all  the  qualities  of  meat  roasted 
before  an  open  fire,  except  that  no 
basting  is  required.  The  food  is  more 
evenly  cooked,  and  in  less  time  than  in 
the  ordinary  range  oven,  and,  at  the 
same  time,  it  retains  a  larger  percent- 
age of  its  nutritious  juices.  Another 
advantage  of  the  electric  oven  over 
one  heated  by  gas  is  that  food  cooked 
never,  by  any  chance,  bears  the  flavor 
of  electricity,  while  food  baked  over 
a  gas  flame  always  carries  a  flavor  of 
the  gas.  Then,  there  is  a  degree  of 
uncertainty  about  the  range  oven ;  ac- 
cidents are  always  liable  to  occur,  and 
the  food  to  be  spoiled  ;  but  the  elec- 
trical contrivance  is  free  from  these 
defects  and  always  ready  for  use. 

Standing  next  to  the  oven,  in  Tom's 
kitchen,  is  the  refrigerator.  He  as- 
sumed a  superior  air,  when  I  mentioned 
the  matter,  and  said  : — 

"  That's  the  way  with  women  " 
(scoffingly)  ;  "  they  must  habe  their 
kitchens  the  same  as  their  grand- 
mothers'. They  ain't  no  heat  comes 
from  this  yere  oven,  miss,  and  it 
makes  no   difference   where  it  stands. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


61 


The  heat's  all  inside  where  it  is 
needed !  " 

Then  he  offered  me  a  piece  of  apple 
pie  and  a  cup  of  coffee,  which  I  meekly 
accepted,  and  things  went  on  smoothly 
again. 

The  pie  was  really  delicious,  the 
bottom  crust  being  as  flaky  as  the  top  ; 
and  Tom  was  highly  elated  over  my 
praise  of  his  cooking,  although"  he  did 
hint  that  it  was  due  in  some  measure 
to  the  fact  that  it  was  cooked  by 
electricity. 

Even  at  the  risk  of  again  exposing 
my  ignorance  to  Tom  —  for  I  wanted 
very  much  to  know  —  I  suggested  that 
there  might  be  some  danger  from  elec- 
tricity,—  say,  in  getting  a  shock, —  as 
one  is  continually  hearing  of  accidents, 
where  linemen  become  entangled  in 
live  wires  and  are  severely  burned,  to 
say  nothing  of  criminals  being  inten- 
tionally killed  by  electric  "  shocks." 
Tom,  molified  by  my  praise  of  his  pie, 
explained  that  there  was  absolutely  no 
danger. 

"  'Cause,  you  see,  miss,  I  only  need 
no  volts  to  cook  everything, —  and 
that  is  all  the  electric  company  send 
over  these  here  wires, —  and  that  ain't 


dangerous.  We  could  not  get  enough 
power  into  the  room  to  hurt  a  person, 
'cause  it  is  cut  down  before  it  gets 
here.'' 

11  Did  you  see  where  I  get  my  hot 
water  from  ? "  asked  Tom,  pointing  to 
one  corner  of  the  ceiling.  There  I 
saw  a  square  copper  tank,  about  the 
size  of  an  ordinary  wash-boiler.  Lead- 
ing down  from  it  was  a  small  copper 
pipe,  ending  with  a  faucet  just  above  a 
regulation  white  iron  sink.  Tom  ex- 
plained, as  best  he  could,  that  the 
tank  was  lined  with  a  hollow  lead  coil, 
through  which  wires  were  run,  and, 
when  the  electricity  was  turned  on  by 
means  of  a  small  switch  near  the  sink, 
the  water  became   hot. 

He  also  brought  out  a  chafing-dish, 
electrically  equipped,  together  with  a 
dainty  five-o'clock  tea-kettle.  He  said 
that  one  of  the  officials  of  the  com- 
pany was  a  bachelor  who  "  doted  "  on 
cooking  late  suppers  in  his  rooms, 
and  that  this  was  part  of  his  outfit. 
He  had  set  fire  to  his  rooms  a  num- 
ber of  times,  bothering  with  alcohol 
lamps,  and  now  he  was  happy  and 
the  others  in  the  house  felt  safe  with 
these  electrical  contrivances. 


ELECTRIC  CHAFING-DISH, 


62 


THE  BOSTO.Y  COOKTXG-SCHOOL    MAGAZ/XE. 


OUT-OF-DOORS  FOR   THE   HOME-MAKER. 
By  M  S  xt  Hopkins. 


"  U  p,  up,  my  heart  \  and  walk  abroad, 
Fling  cark  and  care  aside, 

silent  hills,  or  rest  thyself 
Where  peaceful  waters  glide." 

Evidently  the  gentle  poet  who  penned 
such  good  advice  to  himself,  years  ago, 

-  not  a  housekeeper  or  home-maker ; 
he  was  a  man.  otherwise,  while  he 
might  have  listened  respectfully  to 
the  admonition  of  his  muse,  he  would 
have  turned  with  a  sigh  of  regret  to 
the  multitudinous  unfinished  domestic 
tasks,    saying :   "  Yes.    i 

I  certainly  will  spend  more 

time  out  of  doors :  I  am  sure  it  would 

do  me  good."     But.  being  a  man  and 

a  poet,  he  went,   and   was    refreshed 

y  :  for  further  on  he  says :  — 

"  Good  Lord !  it  is  a  gracious  boon, 
For  thought-crazed  wight  like  me, 
To  smell  again  those  summer  flov 
Beneath  this  summer  tree.*' 

But  how  about  the  work  and  worry- 
crazed  woman  ?  Alas  !  too  often  she 
denies  herself  this  gracious  boon  :  not 
that  she  despises  or  underrates  its  gra- 
ciousness,  but  because,  like  Martha  of 
old,  she  is  ill  and  troubled  about 

many  things,"  and,  until  these  many 
things  are  all  put  in  order,  poor  Mar- 
tha can  spare  no  time  for  recreation. 

We  hear  a  great  deal  about  the 
"  higher  life  for  women  ; "  and  the  home- 
ly domestic  duties,  so  dear  to  the  heart 
of  the  old-fashioned  woman,  are  often 
s.rrred  at  by  those  who  imagine  that 
the  ability-  to  write  a  halting  rhyme  is 
more  to  their  credit  than  the  knowledge 
of  how  to  boil  a  potato  or  make  a  loaf 
of  bread  properly.      Far  be  it  from  me 


to    recommend    anything    that   would 
cause  a  woman   to  grow  careless   or 
indifferent    to    any  of    the    thousand- 
and-one  duties,  made  sweet   by  I 
which   make   home   the   resting-place, 
clean,  quiet,  and  well-ordered,  for  all 
the   family,    except    the    housemother 
herself.      There  comes    a   time,   how- 
.-.  in  even-  such  woman's  life,  when 
she  begins  to  question  how  much  longer 
:an  bear  the  strain,  sadly  acknowl- 
edging that  she  is  not  so  strong  as  in 
younger    years,    and.    as   she    puts    it, 
nnot  stand  as  much.*'' 

The   nervous    tension    with    which 
women  bind  themselves  to  their  : 
often  becomes  so  great  that  something 
snaps.  —  gives  way. —  and  then  what  is 
left?      Little   but   unavailing   regr 
that  the  inevitable  ending  might  have 
been  seen  in  time,  and  the  tired  body 
given  a  chance  for  itself, —  a  little 
and  recuperation. 

Too  often  vacation  means  an  an- 
nual trip  somewhere,  but  rest  is  found 
nowhere.  The  last  remnants  of  strength 
have  been  used  in  the  preparation,  and 
the  whole  endeavor  absorbs  more  vital- 
ity than  can  be  regained  by  the  change. 

There  is  an  old  saying  that  one 
er  needs  a  vacation  so  much  as  the 
day  after  returning  from  one.  It  is  a 
mistake  for  a  woman  to  think  that  she 
can  revive  her  lost  energy  by  leaving 
one  house  and  shutting  herself  up  in 
another,  be  they  never  so  many  miles 
apart.  It  is  beyond  four  walls  that 
rest  will  come,  and  it  can  be  found 
even-  day.  Women  patiently  prepare 
three   meals  a  day.  three  hundred  and 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


63 


sixty- five  days  in  the  year;  how  ab- 
surd it  would  be  to  ask  their  families 
to  eat  enough  in  a  week  to  last  them 
the  rest  of  the  year,  and  yet  scarcely 
more  so  than  to  try  to  gulp  down  in 
a  week  or  two  enough  rest  for  the  re- 
mainder of  the  year. 

As  surely  as  those  who  look  for 
them  find  "  sermons  in  stones  "  we  can 
find  help  for  our  tired  souls  every  day 
that  we  look  for  it  out  of  doors.  The 
parlor  will  be  just  as  dusty  to-morrow, 
if  we  render  it  speckless  to-day;  but 
our  spirits  will  be  brighter  and  brighter 
as  the  days  go  by,  if  we  will  only  go 
out  and  greet  our  friends. —  fresh  air, 
sunshine,  and  beautiful,  generous  out- 
of-doors. 

Don't  tire  yourself  all  out  by  going 
on  long  walks  or  rides  (to  find  some- 
thing which  may  be  right  under  your 
nose,  waiting  to  be  discovered),  com- 
ing home  more  wearied  than  when  you 
set  forth. 

Of  course  the  woman  who  is  so  for- 
tunate as  to  own  a  wheel  or  a  horse,  or 
has  leisure,  so  that  she  can  belong  to 
a  golf  club,  has  no  need  to  be  coached 
as  to  methods  of  outdoor  enjoyment. 
But  it  is  another  case,  the  woman  of 
many  cares,  with  her  heart  in  her 
home  work,  whose  spirit  is  stronger 
than  the  flesh,  which  is  indeed  weak 
many  times  when  strength  is  most 
needed.  This  is  the  woman  to  whom 
these  little  "  rests  by  the  way  "  come 
like  a  benediction.  The  little  lunch 
with  the  children,  prepared  from  sim- 
ple materials,  in  the  simplest  way,  and 
eaten  at  noon  under  the  nearest  clump 
of  trees,  is  an  outing  that  can  be  in- 
dulged in  very  often,  if  trees  are  near ; 
if  not,  either  at  the  front  or  back  of 
the  house  there  is  nearly  always  some 
shade. 


A  vine  -  shaded  porch  is  a  great 
tempter  to  a  little  rest  out  of  doors, 
and  not  at  all  difficult  to  possess,  where, 
with  table,  chairs,  books,  and  sewing, 
many  a  pleasant  hour  may  be  spent. 
Darning  stockings  under  a  tree  is  not 
at  all  the  monotonous  job  it  is,  when 
one  sits  down  in  the  old  place  in  the 
house,  where  the  mending  basket  is 
always  staring  one  out  of  countenance. 
Suppose  you  do  doze  a  bit,  and  find 
the  hammock  a  bit  too  inviting  to  re- 
sist; it  is  only  Mother  Nature  singing 
a  little  grown-up  lullaby,  and  blessed 
is  she  whose  ear  is  attuned  to  the  song. 

That  morning  you  have  replaced 
the  pies  —  which  have  always  cost  you 
an  hour's  hard  work  and  a  backache  — 
with  a  dish  of  fruit,  which,  cool  and 
juicy,  will  please  the  palates,  and  be  far 
more  grateful  to  the  stomachs  of  your 
family,  and  thus  you  have  gained  an 
hour  —  your  very  own  —  to  do  with  as 
you  please.  Xow  if  you  will  only  spend 
it  out  of  doors,  it  will  be  as  good  as  two 
hours  inside.  I  don't  think  you  will 
be  wasting  your  time,  if  you  spend  that 
hour  doing  absolutely  nothing,  but  you 
may  have  conscientious  scruples  that 
do  not  trouble  me;  you  are  so  in  the 
habit  of  keeping  the  domestic  machin- 
ery going  all  the  time  that  a  cessa- 
tion of  the  whir  strikes  you  as  not 
being  just  right. 

But,  as  you  reluctantly  accord  your- 
self the  unusual  luxury  of  your  out- 
door hour,  remember  this. —  that  it  is 
better  to  be  all  alive  half  the  time  than 
half  alive  all  the  time,  and  that  a  rested 
woman  can  do  double  the  work  of  a 
tired  one,  who  grows  more  tired  every 
minute. 

It  is  not  so  many  years  ago  that 
such  advice  would  have  been  consid- 
ered rank  heresy  among  ';good  house- 


64 


THE   BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


keepers;''  now,  as  the  importance  of 
the  life  and  health-giving  qualities  of 
out-of-doors  are  acknowledged  by  all, 
we  have  only  to  put  into  practice  the 
theory,  with  no  fear  of  ridicule  or  ad- 
verse criticism. 

Opportunities  are  now  open  to  wo- 
men in  every  station  to  grasp  more 
or  less  of  the  benefits  accruing  from 
companionship  with  "  leaf,  blossom, 
blade,  hill,  valley,  stream,  and  calm, 
unclouded  sky."  We  owe  much  to 
cheap  and  pleasant  modes  of  transpor- 
tation,—  the  wheel,  the  trolley,  and  the 
daily  water  excursions.  The  State  of 
Massachusetts  has  been  more  than 
generous  in  placing  at  our  disposal  a 
feast  of  parks,  both  woodland  and  ma- 
rine, where  tired  mothers  find  rest,  and 
fretful  children  are  soothed  and  quieted. 
There  is  a  universal  awakening,  not 
only  to  the  enjoyments  of  outdoor  life 


for  women,  but  to  its  actual  necessity ; 
and  a  few  years  from  now  this  phase 
of  life  will  occupy  as  high  a  place  in 
domestic  economy  as  the  preparation 
of  food  and  other  hygiene  of  the  home. 
With  inspiration  caught  from  com- 
panionship with  nature,  tasks  as  well 
as  hearts  will  grow  lighter,  while  home 
will  be  the  sweeter  to  her  for  the  flit- 
tings  to  and  fro  of  its  cheery  mistress. 

"  The  bubbling  brook  doth  leap  when  I  come 
by, 
Because  mv  feet   find  measure  with    its 
call; 
The  birds  know  when  the  friend  they  love 
is  nigh, 
For  I  am  known  to  them,  both  great  and 
small. 
The  flower  that  on  the  lonely  hillside  grows, 
Expects  me  there  when  spring  its   bloom 
has  given, 
And  many  a   tree  and  bush  my  wanderings 
knows, 
And  e'en  the  clouds  and  silent   stars  of 
heaven." 


THE  SWEETHEART  OF  VEGETABLES. 

By  Eleanor  M.  Lucas. 


No  vegetable  is  so  little  understood, 
and  so  generally  avoided  in  American 
cookery,  as  the  artichoke  ;  not  the 
artichoke  of  the  ground,  but  a  very 
flower  of  the  table,  albeit  first  cousin 
to  the  thistle. 

The  extent  of  its  use,  by  the  average 
cook,  is  to  serve  it  plain  boiled  "  with 
the  hulls  on  "  (as  a  little  girl  of  my  ac- 
quaintance expressed  it),  and  thus  it  is 
imperfectly  cooked,  and  of  a  sickly 
grayish-green  hue. 

Considering  the  dainty  sweetness  of 
its  flavor,  I  wish  to  raise  a  feeble 
voice  in  protest  against  this  injustice  to 
one  of  our  finest   esculents,  and  make 


a  few  suggestions  on  the  subject  of 
preparing  the  artichoke. 

When  properly  cooked  a  boiled  arti- 
choke has  a  sweet,  firm  heart,  and  the 
outer  leaves  are  a  bright  green. 

For  this  purpose  choose  small  arti- 
chokes of  uniform  size.  Wash  well  in 
several  waters,  cut  off  the  stem,  and 
trim  away  the  tough  outer  leaves. 
Throw  into  rapidly  boiling  water ;  to 
each  half-gallon  allow  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus.  Keep  the  sauce- 
pan uncovered,  and  let  them  boil 
quickly  until  tender.  Ascertain  when 
they  are  done  by  thrusting  a  fork  into 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


65 


the  heart.  When  cooked,  which  may 
be  in  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes, 
turn  into  a  hot  strainer,  and  drain 
thoroughly.  Serve,  at  once,  wrapped 
in  a  napkin.  If  allowed  to  stand  they 
lose  their  green  prettiness  and  be- 
come ugly  in  color.  Thus,  they  are 
served  simply  with  a  viniagrette  or 
some  simple  sauce. 

The  best  method  of  serving  the  arti- 
choke is  to  trim  off  all  the  outer  leaves, 
and  serve  the  tender  hearts  in  a  deli- 
cate sauce,  or  as  fritters,  broiled  or 
stuffed. 

Broiled  artichokes  are  delicious  with 
young  lamb  chops.  Trim  off  all  the 
outer  leaves,  until  the  heart  is  reached. 
Rub  with  a  cut  lemon,  to  keep  it  white, 
and  cook,  until  tender,  in  salted  water. 
Drain,  and  divide  each  heart  in  two. 
Dip  in  melted  butter,  and  toast  a  deli- 
cate brown  over  hot  coals.  Slip  on 
to  a  warmed  platter,  sprinkle  with  pep- 
per and  finely-minced  parsley,  add  a 
dash  of  lemon  juice,  and  serve. 

Artichoke  fritters  are  made  by  cut- 
ting the  cooked  bottoms  (as  the  heart 
is  called)  into  small  dice.  Put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  add 
a  pint  of  the  prepared  artichokes,  half 
a  pint  of  milk,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
finely-minced  parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  dash  of  white  pepper,  and  the 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Stir  until 
the  sauce  thickens,  then  remove,  and 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Roll 
out  puff  paste  very  thin,  and  stamp 
out  with  a  round  cutter;  on  half  the 
rounds  put  a  tablespoonful  of  the  arti- 
choke, cover  with  a  second  round  of 
paste,  pinching  the  edges  well  together. 
Place  in  a  wire  frying-basket,  plunge 
into  smoking-hot  fat,  and  fry  until  a 
delicate  golden  brown.  Lift  from  the 
fat  and  turn  on  to  thick  brown  paper, 


to  absorb  the  surface  grease.  Serve, 
at  once,  on  a  white  napkined  dish,  sur- 
rounded by  a  wreath  of  parsley.  This 
is  an  excellent  entree. 

Another  method  of  serving  the  ar- 
tichoke is  to  cook  them  tender,  pull 
off  the  outer  leaves,  and  roast  the 
hearts  in  the  pan  with  young  spring 
lamb.  About  twenty  minutes'  roasting 
will  give  them  a  brown  glaze  and  a 
savory  flavor.  Dish  the  lamb,  and 
use  the  artichoke  as  a  garnish,  with 
sprigs  of  green  mint. 

Artichokes  a  hi  Bordelaise  may  be 
prepared  in  the  chafing-dish,  and  form 
an  excellent  course,  at  a  chafing-dish 
supper.  They  may  be  served  as  an 
entre'e  at  dinner,  following  the  soup. 

Place  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter  and 
half  a  cup  of  fine,  sifted  bread  crumbs 
into  the  blazer,  and  light  the  lamp. 
When  the  crumbs  are  well  moistened 
with  the  butter,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
very  finely- minced  parsley  and  one 
pint  of  cooked  artichokes,  cut  into 
small  cubes,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  dash  of  cayenne,  and  half  a  pint  of 
rich,  sweet  cream.  Let  boil  up  once 
and  put  out  the  light ;  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  lemon  juice  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Stir 
well  and  serve  at  once.  If  served  as 
an  entree,  place  the  ingredients  in  small 
dishes  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Artichoke  omelette  makes  a  dainty 
breakfast  dish.  Prepare  a  small  ome- 
lette in  the  usual  manner.  To  four  eggs 
use  half  a  cup  of  artichoke  bottoms,  pre- 
viously cooked  and  cut  in  thin  slices. 
Put  these  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  onion  juice,  a  very  little  grated 
nutmeg,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
minced  parsley.  Let  heat,  then  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter.  When  the 
omelette  is  cooked,  place  a  layer  of  the 


66 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


artichoke  over  the  top  and  fold.  Slip 
on  to  a  heated  platter  and  serve. 

Fowl  in  artichoke  cups,  with  supreme 
sauce,  serves  as  an  exceedingly  pretty 
dish  for  a  luncheon,  or  as  a  vegetable 
course  at  dinner,  after  the  meat. 

Take  eight  artichokes'  hearts  and 
with  a  small,  sharp  knife  scoop  out 
the  centres  ;  boil  until  tender  in  salted 
water,  drain,  and  fill  with  the  following  : 
Cut  half  a  pound  of  white  meat  from 
a  cooked  chicken  into  dice  shapes, 
place  in  a  saucepan  over  hot  water, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  a  very  small  pinch  of 
nutmeg,  moisten  with  one  ounce  of 
fresh  butter,  and  half  a  gill  of  sweet 
cream.  Let  heat,  and  with  it  fill 
the  artichokes,  heaping  it  high  above 
them  ;  dust  writh  parsley  or  chervil 
chopped  fine.  Arrange  on  a  platter, 
and  pour  about  them,  but  not  over,  the 
sauce.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
until  thick  ;  add  half  a  pint  of  sweet 
cream,  mix  with  half  a  pint  of  boiling 
chicken  broth,  and  stir  until  thick,  but 
do  not  allow  to  boil.  Season  with  salt 
and  white  pepper. 

The  artichoke  cups  are  used  as  re- 
ceptacles for  green  peas,  mushrooms, 
or  to  hold  a  thick  sauce.  But  the  arti- 
choke hearts  show  at  their  best,  when 
they  are  served  as  a  salad,  and  thus  they 
form  a  most  inviting  dish  to  our  list  of 
summer  viands.  The  hearts  are  cooked 
until  tender  in  salted  water,  then  drained 
and  cooled ;  if  young  and  tender,  it 
makes  little  difference  how  they  are 
treated,  they  are  sure  to  be  good.  At 
the  same  time  there  are  ways  of  serv- 
ing them  that  impart  a  flavor  of  vari- 
ety that  helps  along  a  dinner  in  a 
wonderful     manner.        They    may    be 


served  with  a  mayonnaise,  either  whole, 
or  cut  into  dice  or  thin  slices. 

Dainty  slices  on  a  bed  of  shredded 
cress,  or  lettuce,  served  with  a  French 
dressing,  gives  a  good  salad  to  serve 
with  the  roast.  Cut  in  slices  and 
sprinkled  with  fresh  tarragon  leaves, 
chopped  fine,  they  make  a  delicious 
salad,  when  simply  served  with  a 
French  dressing. 

Another  form  is  to  scoop  out  the 
centres  with  a  small  spoon  and  fill 
with  mayonnaise,  or  some  good  varia- 
tion of  that  standard  sauce,  such  as 
ravigote,  tartare,  Tyrolienne,  or  a  dainty 
cream  mayonnaise.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves.  The  bright  green  of  ravigotc,  in 
pleasing  contrast  with  the  dainty  white 
cups  of  the  artichoke,  shows  to  better 
advantage,  if  the  artichokes  are  ar- 
ranged on  leaves  of  red  "  passion  let- 
tuce ; "  and  the  pale-pink  Tyrolienne, 
with  green  lettuce  leaves,  makes  an 
artistic  dish. 

Walnut  meats,  mixed  with  mayon- 
naise, are  delicious,  used  as  a  filling  for 
artichoke  hearts;  and  tender,  blanched 
celery  stalks  are  also  much  in  favor. 

A  salad  served  with  game  is  com- 
posed of  celery,  artichokes,  and  sour 
oranges.  Peel  three  oranges,  remove 
every  particle  of  white  pith,  divide  into 
sections,  and  cut  each  in  halves.  Use 
an  equal  amount  of  blanched  celery 
stalks,  cut  into  inch  lengths.  Mix  to- 
gether lightly  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive 
oil,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a 
quarter  a  teaspoonful  of  paprica.  Heap 
lightly  on  a  dish,  and  surround  with 
cooked  hearts  of  artichokes,  cut  into 
quarters  ;  wreathe  with  blanched  celery 
leaves. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


67 


A  NEW  PHASE  IN  DIETETICS. 

By  Helen  Campbell. 


As  physicians  in  the  various  conven- 
tions, which  it  is  becoming  more  and 
more  the  custom  for  them  to  hold, 
take  counsel  together,  the  verdict 
among  them  appears  to  be  a  universal 
one  for  England  and  the  Continent 
alike.  In  America  we  are  paying  less 
attention  to  the  matter ;  but  even  here 
we  are  fast  reaching  the  same  conclu- 
sion, viz.,  that  too  much  meat  is  at 
the  bottom  of  many  modern  diseases. 
In  England  the  belief  has  become  so 
established  that  in  London  alone  there 
are  a  dozen  or  more  vegetarian  restau- 
rants, some  of  them  most  admirably 
run,  and  providing  a  menu  that  goes 
far  toward  making  new  converts. 
There  is  one,  in  especial,  near  Trafal- 
gar Square,  where  at  certain  hours  of 
the  day  one  may  hear  fine  talk  as  well 
as  eat  a  good  meal;  for  it  is  thronged 
by  men  who  work  in  Whitehall  or  in 
the  busy  streets  off  the  Strand,  where 
publishers  and  writers  of  all  orders 
resort.  They  have  found  that  half  or 
a  third  of  the  money  formerly  spent  on 
chops,  etc.,  gives  a  type  of  luncheon 
that  leaves  the  brain  clear,  while  satis- 
fying the  stomach  equally  well;  and  so 
the  big  rooms  are  crowded,  and  one 
may  hear  every  problem  of  modern 
times  under  active  discussion. 

There  are  many  in  this  country  who 
are,  in  a  degree  at  least,  vegetarians ; 
but  as  yet  there  is  no  opportunity  to 
carry  out  the  theory,  save  at  home,  un- 
less we  count  the  Vegetarian  Club  of 
Chicago  University.  But,  unlike  the 
French,  we  are  singularly  unable  to 
cook  vegetables  properly;  nor,  indeed, 


are  the  English  much  more  skilful. 
The  growing  faith  in  this  method  of 
living,  however,  has  incited  study,  and 
there  are  now  excellent  vegetarian 
cook-books,  though  this  title  is  a  mis- 
nomer, for  animal  food,  in  the  form  of 
milk,  eggs,  butter,  is  freely  used.  Meat 
alone  is  excluded. 

In  direct  connection  with  this  faith, 
we  have  in  London  the  founding  of  a 
Vegetarian  Hospital.    It  began  in  1895, 
but  silently,  since  its  originators  were 
doubtful    as   to   its    success    and    pre- 
ferred to  experiment  before  extensive 
advertisement.      It  was    thought   that 
an  invalid  accustomed  to    meat  three 
times  a  day  might  rebel  at  its  banish- 
ment.      It     had     long    been    known 
that  patients,  among  vegetarians,  were 
sounder     fleshed,    and    healed    more 
easily,  after  operations  of   any  order, 
that  even  bones  united  more  speedily, 
and  with  less  fever  and  irritation,  in 
case    of    accident,    than    is    the    rule 
among  meat  eaters.     All  these  points 
have  been  proven  again,  and  the  hos- 
pital, at  present,  is  filled  with  patients, 
all  of  whom  not  only  do  well  but  often 
far  better  than  under  the  old  regimen. 
Physicians    are    united  in  believing 
that    the    great  increase  in  cancerous 
diseases    is    due  to  the   overeating  of 
meat,  above  all  cheap  meat,  often  dis- 
eased   itself,    or   killed    under    condi- 
tions that  mean  disease  to  the  eater. 
Rheumatism  is  treated  by  most    phy- 
sicians   on    the    plan    of    partial,    and 
more    often    entire,     abstinence    from 
meat;   and    it    is    noticeable   that   the 
vegetarian  is  free    from    any  trace    of 


68 


THE  BOSTOX   COOKIXG-SCHOOL   MAGAZIXE. 


this  disorder,  as  well  as  from  various 
other  phases  of  the  same  nature,  mani- 
festing itself  as  kidney  disease  or 
rheumatism,  according  to  the  tenden- 
cies of  the  subject. 

There  has  now  been  added  to  the 
strictly  vegetarian  restaurants  of  Lon- 
don another  of  even  more  singular 
order,  yet  born  of  the  same  needs. 
On  Regent  Street,  which  is  very  much 
like  the  shopping  part  of  Sixth  Avenue, 
in  Xew  York,  there  has  lately  been 
opened  a  great  dietary  grocery  and 
restaurant.  Behind  the  great  glass 
cases  in  the  grocery  division  are  the 
usual  jars  and  tins  and  glasses,  pots, 
boxes  and  all  the  other  holders  of  food 
preparations,  just  like  those  in  any 
other  well-appointed  grocery.  There, 
however,  the  resemblance  ends.  These 
are  not  counterfeit  boxes,  yet  their  con- 
tents might,  to  the  hungry  craver  for  the 
fleshpots,  come  under  that  head  and  no 
other :  for  within  them  are  samples  of 
food,  familiar  in  name,  but  from  which 
every  ounce — yea,  and  even  every  grain 
—  of  harmful  constituency  has  been 
extracted,  usually  by  chemical  process. 
The  attendants  are  not  ordinary  clerks 
and  waiters  who  serve  you  to  order ; 
they  are  serious-eyed  women  chiefly, 
capable  of  diagnosing  a  case,  many 
of  them  physicians,  and  all  of  them 
trained  to  a  full  understanding  of  the 
gravity  of  the  information  which  they 
are  there  to  give. 

"What  are  our  principles?"  said 
one  of  them  not  long  ago  in  reply  to  a 
question.  "  To  cure,  and,  if  possible, 
to  teach  people  how  to  stay  cured. 
We  have  to  provide  for  and  cater  to 
those  suffering  from  diabetes,  rheuma- 
tism, gout,  nervous  disorders,  sick  head- 
ache, bad  livers,  insomnia,  consump- 
tion —  in    short,    everything  from  lowr 


spirits  to  a  galloping  consumption. 
You  would  be  amazed  to  read  the  list 
of  disorders  treated,  and  to  hear  the 
patients'  comments.  Above  all,  we 
deal  with  the  pretty  woman  who  does 
not  want  to  get  fat,  and  the  woman 
who  is  not  pretty,  but  just  as  anxious. 
Hard-working  business  men  come.  too. 
who  want  to  keep  a  clear  head  for 
their  intricate  transactions.  Physicians 
send  most  of  them,  for  even  they  have 
come  to  put  more  faith  in  diet  than 
in  medicine.  We  give  no  medicine 
—  never." 

"  But  these  things  appear  to  be 
cakes  and  jellies;  bonbons,  too." 

"  Certainly.  These  women  are  in 
terror  at  the  prospect  of  giving  up  the 
sweet  things  they  love.  So  we  have 
learned  to  make  delicious  substitutes, 
and  study  to  imitate,  as  far  as  we  can, 
the  bills  of  fare  which  the  fashionable 
eater  calls  for.  Sugar  and  starch  are 
of  course  left  out,  the  two  things 
most  prominent  in  all  cakes,  pastry, 
etc.  ;  but,  when  we  have  handled  sac- 
charine and  gluten  as  we  know  how, 
the  palate  knows  no  difference  any 
more  than  it  does  with  our  chocolate 
creams,  caramels,  and  the  other  con- 
fections. In  our  big  kitchen  our  cooks 
are  expert  chemists.  The  bread  they 
knead  can  be  eaten  without  making 
fat,  for  gluten  takes  the  place  of  starch 
in  every  form. 

"When  a  patient  is  to  be  reduced? 
Well,  then  we  make  a  series  of  menus 
to  be  followed  at  home,  or  in  the 
restaurant  above,  if  the  home  cook  is 
incapable  of  working  them  out.  We 
test  on  the  scales  to  see  how  they  take 
it.  This  is  done  three  times  a  day. 
We  provide  a  menu  fit  for  a  prince, 
and  yet  know,  in  spite  of  this, 
that  reduction  is  certain.     Progressive 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


69 


mothers  bring  or  send  their  young 
daughters  here,  to  be  fed  scientifically, 
and  dyspeptics  run  in  for  a  corrective 
meal,  just  as  a  good  many  old  gentle- 
men with  rheumatism  do. 

"Condensed  food?  Very  little.  It 
has  not  worked  well  in  the  experiments 
with  the  German  army,  which  are  the 
most  valuable  that  have  been  tried. 
But  we  make,  for  instance,  what  looks 
like  tapioca  pudding,  which  is  really 
Irish  moss,  a  fine  remedy  in  diabetes, 
and  is  sweetened  with  saccharine  and 
glycerine ;  and  we  have  calves'-feet 
jelly  from  ivory,  by  a  chemical  process. 
Some  of  those  boxes  hold  soy  flour, 
brought  all  the  way  from  China;  and 
we  use  quantities  of  almond  and  nut 
flour  generally.  All  our  meats,  fruits, 
and  vegetables  are  soaked,  picked 
over,  and  treated  chemically  in  one 
way  or  another,  before  cooking.  Cake 
and  bread  are  beaten  and  kneaded  by 
machinery.  Germs  are  kept  out,  and 
every    mouthful    is   subjected,    in    one 


way  or  another,  to  antiseptic  treatment. 
We  fill  an  order  for  as  many  courses 
as  you  like,  and  with  nothing  harmful 
down  to  the  plum  pudding  itself,  if  this 
be  wanted." 

"The  cooking- schools,  I  suppose, 
could  not  do  this.  " 

"They  ought  to,"  said  the  serious- 
eyed  and  singularly  earnest  woman. 
"  But  how  can  they  ?  If  Government 
knew  the  importance  of  the  matter,  they 
would  have  this  department  in  every 
one  of  them ;  though  I  might  say 
that  if  they  were  endowed  and  the 
work  made  obligatory,  and,  also,  if 
there  were  wider  study  of  the  whole 
question  of  food,  there  would  be  at 
once  a  better  standard  of  general  cook- 
ing, and  so  less  disease  to  treat.  In 
the  mean  time  we  have  more  than  we 
can  do,  and  shall  have  another  place 
presently.  But  the  first  need  is  more 
cooking-schools  and  more  trained  and 
scientific  teachers,  and  we  should  work 
together." 


IN  PEACH  SEASON. 

By  Kate  M.  Post. 

{Written  for  the  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine.) 


Peaches  in  the  dumpling, 

Peaches  in  the  pie, 
Peaches  in  the  market, 

Who  can  pass  them  by  ? 

Peaches  served  for  breakfast, 
Sliced  in  yellow  cream  ; 

Peach  frappe  at  dinner, 
Pleasant  as  a  dream. 


Peaches  in  the  orchard, 
Just  above  your  head, 

Like  a  coy  young  maiden, 
Blushing  rosy  red, 

Showing  all  her  fairness, 
Just  beyond  your  reach  ; 

Hence,  no  doubt,  the  query 
"  Isn't  she  a  peach  ?  " 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 

A  WHITE  SAUCE  AND  ITS  MISSION. 

..-/  the  Graduation  Exercises  of  the  Boston  Cooking-School. 

By  Katherixe  A.   Frenxh. 


You  know.  Mrs.  Brown.  I  have 
always  thought  all  this  fuss  about 
teaching  girls  to  cook  was  nonsense, 
and  when  Grace's  mother  consented 
to  let  her  go  away  for  the  course  I 
told  her  plainly  I  thought  it  was  a  sin- 
ful waste  of  her  time  ;  she  might  better 
have  her  take  china  painting  instead, 
or  do  something  that  would  be  a  real 
accomplishment.  You  know  Grace 
never  could  do  anything  with  music. 
Her  mother  insisted  that  she  should 
take  lessons,  however,  and  practise  a 
certain  number  of  hours  each  day;  and 
in  the  summer,  when  the  windows  were 
open.  I  did  feel  sometimes  that  I  should 
go  distracted,  hearing  her  murder  some 
of  those  lovely  things.  Grace  hated  it 
too.  and  I  really  think  the  longing  to 
get  away  from  the  piano  lessons  was 
one  reason  why  she  was  so  determined 
to  take  the  course  in  cookery.  One 
morning,  after  she  came  home.  I  saw 
her  flying  around  in  the  kitchen,  so  I 
ran  over.  I  always  did  enjoy  talking 
with  her. 

"Well,  Grace."  I  said.  "I've  come 
over  to  see  you  do  some  of  those  won- 
derful dishes  you  have  learned  at  the 
cooking- school;  but  that  little  mess 
you  are  stirring  up  there  doesn't  look 
so  very  interesting.  What  is  it,  and 
what  are  you  going  to  do  with  it  ?  " 

Then  she  explained  that  it  was  a 
white  sauce,  and  was  like  some  people, 
more  interesting  than  it  appeared;  that 
it  was  one  of  the  four  sauces  a  French 
chef  always  kept  on  hand,  and  formed 
the  basis  of  so  manv  others,  as  becha- 


mel, allemande:  that  it  entered  into 
the  composition  of  a  large  number 
of  the  made  dishes  also,  and  was  in- 
dispensable for  croquettes  and  cutlets 
(Grace  does  make  delicious  ones,  and 
so  daintily  shaped).  Then  she  went 
on  to  say  that  this  particular  one  was 
intended  for  a  dish  of  macaroni  and 
cheese;  for  that  morning,  in  addition 
to  a  lesson  on  sauces,  she  was  teaching 
Mary,  the  cook,  to  make  some  nourish- 
ing and  inexpensive  dishes.  Mary's 
sister's  husband  was  working  at  very 
low  wages,  and  she  had  asked  for  some 
recipes  that  would  be  suitable  to  help 
out  their  small  income. 

"Well,"  I  said.  --I  suppose  that  ex- 
plains why  this  queer-looking  piece  of 
meat  is  on  the  table.  I  had  been  won- 
dering what  it  could  be,  but  was  afraid 
it  would  not  be  polite  to  ask." 

••  Yes.'"  she  replied.  "  that  is  a  piece  of 
the  flank,  and  costs  only  a  few  cents  a 
pound  ;  but  it  has  good  nutritive  value, 
and.  if  properly  cooked,  is  very  nice. 
I  am  going  to  teach  Mary  to  stuff  and 
braise  it." 

••  Why  not  make  soup  of  it."  I  said. 
"  and  save  so  much  bother  ?  " 

■•Why."  she  said,  '-there  is  almost 
no  nourishment  in  those  clear  soups, 
you  know.  When  we  boil  meat,  only 
the  extractives  and  soluble  juices  are 
found  in  the  soup;  and,  while  it  stimu- 
lates, it  does  not  nourish  to  any  extent  " 
(and  I  had  crowded  down  Liebig's 
Extract  all  last  winter,  under  the  im- 
pression that  it  was  building  me  up  >. 
"  Of  course.*'  she  continued.  "  the  meat 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


7' 


could  be  boiled  and  served  with  the 
gravy,  but  we  become  so  tired  of  eating 
it  one  way." 

It  looked  so  nice  after  it  was  ready 
for  the  oven  that  I  thought  I  would 
like  to  taste  it,  and  said  I  believed  I 
would  stay  until  it  was  done.  Grace 
said  she  would  be  delighted  to  have 
me,  but  that  it  would  take  several  hours, 
as  it  must  cook  at  a  low  temperature, 
in  order  not  to  harden  the  albumen, 
and  asked  if  I  did  not  remember  read- 
ing about  the  objections  to  using  Aus- 
tralian tinned  meats  in  the  army  ;  that, 
whereas  the  fibres  of  the  meat  fell  apart, 
giving  it  the  appearance  of  being  ten- 
der, the  real  facts  were  that  it  had 
been  subjected  to  so  high  a  tempera- 
ture that,  while  the  connective  tissue 
had  been  dissolved,  the  fibre  of  the 
meat  was  left  hard  and  indigestible. 

11  Oh,  yes,"  I  said ;  "  you  mean  all  that 
beef-inquiry  affair  that  has  been  in  the 
papers  for  so  long." 

But  Grace  said,  smilingly :  "  Oh, 
no;  that  was  quite  another  story." 

I  thought  I  had  better  go  before  I 
exposed  my  ignorance  any  farther:  so  I 
told  her  if  she  would  give  me  the  rec- 
ipe for  the  white  sauce  (John  and  I  are 
so  fond  of  all  those  nice  kinds  she 
spoke  of,  and  we  hardly  ever  get  a 
cook  that  does  them  well),  I  thought  I 
would  try  making  one  myself,  it  looked 
so  easy. 

"Yes,"  she  said,  "that  was  what  all 
the  girls  at  the  school  thought,  until 
after  they  had  tried  one." 

But  I  thought  to  myself  I  had 
sense  and  judgment  enough  to  make 
a  simple  thing  like  that,  if  a  parcel  of 
girls  at  a  cooking-school  did  not;  so  I 
took-the  recipe  and  walked  home  with 
it.  I  measured  out  my  material  very 
carefully,  waited  until   the   butter  was 


hot  and  bubbling,  according  to  Grace's 
directions,  so  that  the  heat  would 
burst  the  starch  grains,  and  then,  just 
as  I  stirred  in  the  flour,  I  happened  to 
think  I  had  not  put  the  milk  on  to 
scald.  I  made  a  wild  dash  for  it,  but 
before  I  could  get  back  that  butter 
and  flour  burned.  I  was  so  afraid  Grace 
might  chance  to  come  in  before  I  had 
finished  I  tried  again,  and  this  time  it 
was  lumpy,  my  dish  proving  too  small 
to  allow  me  to  stir  it  properly,  and  it 
required  the  third  effort  to  produce 
anything  at  all  resembling  the  smooth, 
creamy  mixture  Grace  made  with  such 
ease.  And  really,  I  do  not  think  cook- 
ing would  be  half  bad,  if  we,  like  Grace, 
always  knew  the  reason  for  everything 
we  did.  I  enjoyed  her  morning's  work 
much  better  than  the  Browning  Club 
the  night  before,  for  you  know  I  am 
not  much  of  a  literary  woman  ;  but  I 
will  belong  to  those  clubs  so  long  as 
every  one  else  does.  Well,  the  next 
morning  I  ran  over  to  see  Grace  again. 

"  I  guess  you  gave  me  the  wrong 
recipe  yesterday,"  I  said;  "  my  sauce 
was  a  good  deal  thicker  than  yours  " 
(I  did  not  tell  her  how  many  times  I 
tried  before  I  could  make  even  a  thick 
sauce). 

"  Did  you  use  bread  or  pastry  flour  ? " 
she  asked. 

"  Why,  what  difference  would  it 
make,  so  long  as  it  was  flour  ?  "  I  said. 

11  Simply,  that  your  sauce  would  be 
much  thicker  if  made  with  the  bread 
flour,"  she  replied. 

••  Well,  I  declare  !  Is  there  anything 
more  to  learn  about  the  white  sauce  ?  " 
I  cried,  my  respect  for  both  a  white 
sauce  and  the  training  of  a  cooking- 
school  steadily  increasing. 

"  Oh,  yes,"  said  Grace;  "there  are 
several  things  :  but  I  am  going  to  make 


72 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


this  angel  food  before  I  tell  you  any 
more." 

Of  course,  I  was  interested  in  that; 
for  her  cake  is  always  so  much  nicer 
than  mine,  although  I  make  it  after  her 
recipe. 

"  Why,"  I  asked,  k'  what  makes  you 
beat  the  eggs  with  a  fork  ?  It  is  done 
much  more  quickly  with  a  Dover  egg- 
beater." 

"  I  know  it,"  she  said ;  "  but  I  can 
enclose  so  much  more  air  in  this  way, 
and  you  know  the  whole  success  of 
sponge  cake  depends  upon  the  large 
amount  of  air  enclosed,  and  its  expan- 
sion in  the  oven." 

"Well,"  said  I,  "it  will  be  worth  my 
while  to  bring  a  note-book  along  when 
I  come  over  here  mornings." 

Then  I  remembered  that  I  had  not 
given  her  John's  message.  He  ate  lob- 
ster Newburg  and  Welsh  rarebit  the 
night  before,  and  was  home  with  an  at- 
tack of  indigestion,  and  told  me  to  ask 
Grace  what  was  good  to  give  an  invalid 
under  such  circumstances.  I  told  Grace 
I  knew  she  was  not  taught  anything 
about  cookery  for  the  sick ;  that  they 
did  not  pay  any  attention  to  such  things 
at  cooking-schools :  but  she  said  very 
quickly  that  indeed  they  did,  and  had 
made  a  special  feature  of  it,  giving  a 
series  of  lectures  on  the  subject.  But 
she  said,  laughingly,  that  she  believed 
John  usually  prescribed  for  himself 
when  it  came  to  the  question  of  food. 
You  know  John  always  says  a  man 
has  but  one  life  to  live,  and  he  might 
as  well  give  that  up  if  he  cannot  eat 
what  he  wants  and  when  he  wants  it. 
So  I  told  her  he  had  mentioned  some 
milk  toast,  but  said  the  cook  could 
not  make  it  decently. 

"  How  does  she  make  it  ?  "  Grace 
asked. 

"  She  usually  scorches  it  one  side, 


and  leaves  it  white  on  the  other,"  I 
replied,  "and  serves  it  with  a  sauce  so 
thick  one  can  almost  cut  it  with  a  knife." 

"  Well,"  said  Grace,  "  suppose  you 
make  it  yourself,  and  toast  it  slowly 
and  evenly,  until  it  is  well  dried  and 
brown  ;  not  sticky  in  the  centre.  Done 
in  this  way,  the  heat  changes  some  of 
the  starch  to  dextrine,  which  is  the  first 
stage  in  digestion,  helping  out  an  over- 
taxed stomach.  Then  make  the  thin 
variety  of  the  famous  white  sauce,  only 
this  time  do  not  cook  the  flour  in  the 
butter,  but  moisten  it  instead,  and 
thicken  the  scalded  milk  with  it,  add- 
ing the  butter  just  before  you  pour  it 
on  the  toast.  This  avoids  heating  the 
butter  to  such  a  high  temperature, 
which  makes  it  more  difficult  of  di- 
gestion." 

And  that  is  just  a  specimen  of  the 
way  she  explains  the  different  points 
about  every  dish.  The  last  time  I  was 
over  there  I  asked  her  to  join  a  club 
we  are  just  forming  for  the  study  of 
the  evolution  of  man,  and  she  said  she 
was  studying  that  now;  she  thought  if 
a  woman  learned  what  foods  were  best 
adapted  to  develop  men  physically,  and 
therefore  .mentally,  that  was  studying 
evolution  just  as  well  as  to  join  a  club 
and  read  Darwin,  and  might  help  it 
along  a  little  faster,  too.  When  John 
came  home  to  dinner  I  told  him  what 
Grace  said,  and  he  laughed  and  said 
he  guessed  she  had  it  about  right,  and 
as  soon  as  Bessie  was  old  enough  he 
was  going  to  send  her  to  a  cooking- 
school  and  let  her  have  a  hand  in  the 
evolution  of  man,  too.  It  amused  me 
to  see  John  turn  around  in  this  way ; 
for  he  has  always  laughed  at  cooking- 
schools,  and  quoted  all  those  silly  jokes 
about  them  in  the  newspapers.  But 
then,  that  toast  served  with  a  white 
sauce  happened  to  agree  with  him." 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


73 


SELECTED    VERSE. 


A    PRAYER. 

"  And  the  strength  of  the  hills  is  His  also." 

Lift  me,  0  Lord,  above  the  level  plain, 

Beyond    the    cities    where    life    throbs    and 
thrills, 

And  in  the  cool  airs  let  my  spirit  gain 

The  stable  strength  and  courage  of  thy  hills. 

They  are  thy  secret  dwelling-places,  Lord  ! 

Like  thy  majestic  prophets,  old  and  hoar, 
They  stand  assembled  in  divine  accord, 

Thy  sign  of  stablished  power  forevermore. 

Here  peace  finds  refuge  from  ignoble  wars, 
And  faith,  triumphant,  builds  in   snow  and 
rime, 

Near  the  broad  highways  of  the  greater  stars, 
Above  the  tide-line  of  the  seas  of  time. 

Lead  me   yet  farther,   Lord,   to  peaks    more 
clear, 
Until  the  clouds  like  shining  meadows  lie, 
Where  through    the  deeps  of  silence  I  may 
hear 
The  thunder  of  thy  legions  marching  by. 
.     —  Century  Magazine. 


A    TOAST. 


Now  "  Here's  Good  Health  !  "     Let  us  fill  to 
the  brim 
Each  glass  as  we  drink  to  the  toast ! 
Let  us  give  her  three  cheers  with  a  hearty  vim 

And  loud  in  her  praises  boast ; 
For  the  smile  in  her  eyes  and  the  clasp  of  her 

hand, 
With  hearts  that  adore  her,  all  eager  we  stand, 
To  live  in  her  service  and  wait  her  command, 
Good  Health,  that  we  love  so  well ! 

And  let  it  be  water  or  let  it  be  wine, 

Whatever  the  glass  may  fill, 
E'en  though  it  be  empty,  her  presence  divine, 

Starts  the  blood  with  a  pulsing  thrill. 
Elixir  we  quaff  in  the  breath  of  the  air 
That  touches  her  cheek ;  and  bur  feet  every- 
where 
Step  firm  as  we  walk  with  the  maiden  so  fair, 
Good  Health,  that  we  love  so  well ! 


Here's  a  sigh  for  the  sad  ones,  where'er  they  be, 

Who  the  touch  of  her  firm  hand  miss ; 
Though  lofty  their  station,  though  riches   be 
free, 
They  know  not  the  acme  of  bliss. 
For  something  is  lacking  unless  she  is  there  ; 
She  can  give  you  a  lift  from  the  depths  of 

despair, 
She  can  lighten  the  burdens  of  worry  and  care, 
Good  Health,  that  we  love  so  well ! 
—  The  Transcript. 


A    SUCCESSFUL    AUTHOR. 

A  little  woodland  fairy 

Behind  an  old  stone  wall 
Once  had  a  quiet  study, 

All  cosey,  cool,  and  small. 
A  mushroom  formed  her  table, 

A  mossy  stone  her  chair, 
A  humming-bird's  bright  feather 

Her  quill  of  pattern  rare. 

With  dewdrops  from  a  berry- 
She  daintily  would  write 

The  fairy  tales  of  fortune, 
On  daisy  petals  white  ; 

And  one  could  ne'er  imagine  — 

Such  plots  she'd  weave  and  blend - 

Till  the  last  leaf  was  finished, 
How  any  tale  would  end. 

So  pleasing  are  her  stories, 

Each  summer  brings  again 
A  new  edition,  issued 

O'er  meadow,  hill,  and  plain; 
And  little  lads  and  maidens 

Still  linger,  as  they  pass, 
To  read  with  wistful  glances 

The  daisies  in  the  grass. 

—  St.  Nicholas. 


SEPTEMBER. 


September  waves  his  golden-rod 
Along  the  lanes  and  hollows, 

And  saunters  round  the  sunny  fields 
A-playing  with  the  swallows. 

—  E.  M.  H. 


74 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZIXE. 


XTbe   ^Boston  Coolnn<3*5cbool 
Corporation, 

Established  1879.  Incorporated  1882. 

School:  372  Boylston  Street. 


BOARD  OF  MANAGERS,  1899. 

Mrs.  WM.  B.  SEWALL         -        -        -     President. 
Mrs.  STEPHEN   D.    BENNETT,   Vice-President. 


EXECUTIVE  COMMITTEE. 

Mrs.  WM.  B.  SEWALL, 

Miss  ELLEN  M.  CHANDLER, 
Mrs.  ELLIOTT  RUSSELL, 
Mrs.  MOORFIELD  STOREY, 

Mrs.  LANGDON  SHANNON  DAVIS, 
Mrs.  WALTER  CHANNING, 
Mrs.  WINSLOW  WARREN  , 
Miss  MINNA   TRAIN, 

Mrs.  EVERETT   MORSS. 
Mrs.  G.  E.  NILES,  Treasurer. 
Mrs.  EVERETT  MORSS,  Secretary. 
Principal,   Miss  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER. 
Miss  CHARLOTTE  JAMES  WILLS. 


Assistants, 


MiSs  MARIA  W.  HOWARD. 


Hbe  Boston  Coofein3=5cbool 
/IDaga3ine, 

Of  Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics. 

PUBLISHED   BIMONTHLY. 

OFFICIAL     JOURNAL     OF     THE     BOSTON 
COOKING-SCHOOL   CORPORATION. 
Editor's  Address  :  372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 
Publication  Office:  22  School  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 
JANET  MCKENZIE  HILL     -        -        -        Editor. 
JOHN  F.  SPOFFORD       ....   Manager. 
ELLA  L.  BREED,    Advertising  Representative. 

Subscription   50   cts.    per    year.      Single    Copies 
10  cts. 

Advertising  rates  furnished  on  application. 

To  Subscribers. 

When  sending  notice  to  renew  subscription  or 
change  address,  please  give  the  old  address  as 
well  as  the  new. 

We  use  in  our  subscription  list  the  card  cata- 
logue system,  by  which  absolute  accurac}'  is  se- 
cured ;  but  in  referring  to  an  original  entry  we 
must  know  the  name  as  it  was  formerly  given, 
together  with  the  Postoffice,  County,  State,  Post- 
office  Box.  or  Street  Number. 

* • ^ 

Entered  at  Boston  Postoffice  as  second-class 
matter. 


The   simplest  dishes   are    the    most 
healthful. 


A  daily  variation  of  the  plainest  fare 
will  go  far  to  supply  the  lack  of  elabo- 
rate living. 


FHE  commencement  season,  recently 
past,  was  unusually  brilliant.  In 
many  schools  the  graduating  classes 
were  of  unwonted  size,  and  the  exer- 
cises of  a  high  order  of  excellence. 
Perfect  days  contributed  to  the  enjoy- 
ment. The  presence  of  President 
McKinley  at  two  of  our  leading  col- 
leges for  young  women  added  great 
interest  and  enthusiasm  to  the  exer- 
cises there.  For  the  first  time,  in  our 
history,  a  president  has  been  the  re- 
cipient of  a  degree  from  a  college  for 
women.  Half  a  century  ago.  a  single 
college  for  the  higher  education  of 
women  had  been  established  in  the 
land  ;  to-day,  more  than  forty  thousand 
young  women  are  attending  such  in- 
stitutions. Instead  of  thirteen  occupa- 
tions then  open  to  women,  she  is  now 
free  to  enter  almost  the  entire  field  of 
professional  or  industrial  enterprise. 

On  June  27th,  as  it  appears  in  our 
column  of  ;'  Xews  and  Notes,"  twenty- 
eight  young  women  received  diplomas 
at  the  Boston  Cooking-School,  —  the 
largest  class  in  the  history  of  the  School. 
Eleven  states  were  represented  by  this 
class.  Two  members  came  from  Maine, 
and  one,  each,  from  California  and  Col- 
orado. Only  two  claimed  a  residence 
within  the  limits  of  this  city. 

Thus  it  seems  the  service  and  in- 
fluence of  the  Boston  Cooking-School 
is  not  confined  to  a  single  city  and  its 
environments.  Her  pupils  are  to  be 
found  in  every  part  of  the  land,  from 
Maine  to  Texas.  They  have  located 
even  in  foreign  lands. 


JN  an  article  on  "The  Fashionable 
^  Hotel  in  London,"  a  writer  in  The 
Caterer  says  :  "  The  frequenter  of  the 
fashionable  hotel  is  no  longer  attracted 
by  splendor  in  decoration  and  furnish- 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


75 


ings.  He  has  passed  this  stage ;  in 
fact,  he  has  emerged  from  the  highly 
decorative  period,  and  his  more  ad- 
vanced ideas  demand  greater  simplic- 
ity; and  this  remark  applies  also  to  his 
food.  There  is  a  distinct  inclination 
in  London  among  the  much-dined  to 
greater  simplicity  in  food.  The  rich 
sauces,  the  highly  decorated  and  hence 
much-fingered  dishes  of  the  old  French 
school,  are  being  gradually  but  surely 
banished,  and  in  their  place  there  is 
demand  for  the  finest  viands,  cooked 
a  point,  but  in  a  comparatively  plain 
manner.  This  is  a  step  in  the  right 
direction,  the  result,  no  doubt,  of  much 
dining,  and,  perhaps,  some  experience 
of  the  day  after." 

Recognition  of  unity  in  variety  is 
the  result  of  all  scientific  inquiry.  In 
dress,  in  manners,  and  in  household 
art  simple  elegance  follows,  in  certain 
sequence,  experience  and  attainment. 
And,  certainly,  this  tendency  to  econo- 
mize or  simplify  in  culinary  matters  is 
highly  to  be  commended.  For  any 
gain  in  this  line  means  less  waste  of 
time,  strength,  and  substance,  as  well 
as  better  service,  and  a  consequent 
gain  to  human  health  and  happiness. 
But  reform  here  need  lead  to  no  sacri- 
fice in  the  variety  or  quality  of  food. 
The  preparation  of  wholesome  and  nu- 
tritious dishes,  properly  cooked  and 
temptingly  served,  must  ever  constitute 
an  indispensable  condition  of  a  good 
cuisine.  But,  in  the  future,  no  method 
or  style  of  cooking  can  avail  that  is 
not  based  on  strictly  scientific  prin- 
ciples —  that  is  not  adapted  to  the 
wants  of  the  human  system.  In  the 
application  of  the  art,  the  laws  of  nu- 
trition, the  condition  of  health,  as  re- 
lated to  foods,  must  be  made  matters 
of  constant  observation  and  concern. 


Y\  7  HO  does  not  tire  of  brick  walls 
'  and  dusty  streets,  the  prescribed 
and  everlasting  routine  of  modern  life, 
and  long  for  an  hour  of  closer  contact 
with  natural  scenes  ?  How  soothing 
the  view  of  a  vast  expanse  of  sparkling, 
dancing  sea  !  How  uplifting  the  pros- 
pect of  distant  mountains,  and  the 
ever-shifting  panorama  of  lights  and 
shadows !  Of  these  we  do  not  tire. 
Xow  is  the  fitting  season  for  recreation, 
—  a  bit  of  freer  life  in  the  open  air ; 
and  fortunate  are  they  who  can  avail 
themselves  of  the  benign  influences  of 
a  genuine  ik  outing."     For 

Tis  as  easy  now  for  the  heart  to  be  true 
As  for  grass  to  be  green  or  skies  to  be  blue ; 
'Tis  the  natural  way  of  living. 

In  the  June  Century,  an  out-of- 
doors  number,  Dr.  VanDyke  writes  very 
pleasantly  about  "  Fisherman's  Lucjc." 
He  reminds  us  of  Sir  Isaac  and  his 
gentle  art, —  the  significance  of  chance, 
and.  above  all.  of  wood  and  dale,  and 
the  simple,  artless  joys  of  rustic  life. 
What  a  truthful  comment  on  the  pres- 
ent mode  of  life  is  contained  in  these 
sentences :  "  The  people  who  always 
live  in  houses,  and  sleep  in  beds,  and 
walk  on  pavements,  and  buy  their 
food  from  butchers  and  bakers  and 
grocers,  are  not  the  most  blessed  in- 
habitants of  this  wide  and  various 
earth.  The  circumstances  of  their  ex- 
istence are  too  mathematical  and  se- 
cure for  perfect  contentment.  They 
live  at  second  or  third  hand.  They  are 
boarders  in  the  world.  Everything  is 
done  for  them  by  somebody  else. 

"  But  when  a  man  abides  in  tents, 
after  the  manner  of  the  early  patri- 
archs, the  face  of  the  world  is  renewed. 
The  vagaries  of  the  clouds  become 
significant.     You  watch  the  sky  with  a 


76 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


lover's  look,  eager  to  know  whether  it 
will  smile  or  frown.*' 

And  again,  after  transcribing  story, 
from  the  "  Little  Flowers  of  St.  Fran- 
cis." of  a  homely  repast  at  a  place, 
where  there  was  a  clear  spring  and  a 
fair,  large  stone,  upon  which  each  monk 
spread  forth  the  gifts  that  he  had  re- 
ceived, he  says  :  "  I  know  of  but  one 
fairer  description  of  a  repast  in  the 
open  air ;  and  that  is  where  we  are 
told  how  certain  poor  fishermen,  com- 
ing in  verv  weary  after  a  night  of  toil 
(and  one  of  them  very  wet  after  swim- 
ming ashore),  found  their  Master  stand- 
ing on  the  bank  of  the  lake  waiting  for 
them.  But  it  seems  that  He  must 
have  been  busy  in  their  behalf  while 
He  was  waiting  ;  for  there  was  a  bright 
fire  of  coals  burning  on  the  shore,  and 
a  goodly  fish  broiling  thereon,  and 
bread  to  eat  with  it.  And.  when  the 
Master  had  asked  them  about  their 
fishing.  He  said.  '  Come.  now.  and  get 
your  breakfast.'  So  they  sat  down 
around  the  fire,  and  with  His  own 
hands  He  served  them  with  the  bread 
and  the  fish." 

Our  lives  are  too  constrained.  The 
horizon  is  cut  oft'  from  our  field  of 
vision.  May  the  weary  toilers  in  the 
land,  they  who  are  bearing  the  burden 
and  heat  of  the  day,  for  a  brief  period 
at  least,  escape  from  the  land  of  Egypt 
by  stepping  out  into  the  wilderness 
and  going  a-fishing  I 

What  the  West  wants  is  a  women's  maga- 
zine that  will  teach  correct  cooking  of  beef- 
steak, pork  chops,  and  ham  gravy.  The 
women  read  entirely  too  much  about  ways  to 
serve  terrapin.  —  Atchison  Globe. 

\\  IE    like    this,   seeing    more  in  the 

statements    to    commend    them 

than  to   condemn.      It   seems    to    us. 

however,  that  women.  East  and  West. 


need  manifest  greater  interest  in  both 
elementary  and  high  -  class  cookery. 
These  things  ought  to  have  been  done. 
•■  and  not  to  leave  the  other  undone." 
Those  who  conduct  culinary  publica- 
tions are  aware  that,  whereas  one 
reader  wants  to  know  how  to  make 
bread,  or  boil  potatoes,  ten  make  in- 
quiries about  less  elementary  processes 
in  cooking. 

We  were  taught,  also,  to  believe  that 
the  masters  set  the  standard  of  excel- 
lence in  music,  art,  and  the  so-called 
humanities  of  polite  learning.  As  a  re- 
sult of  their  efforts,  others  are  inspired 
to  action,  and  the  race,  in  turn,  receives 
inestimable  benefit.  An  application 
of  the  same  maxim  might  be  made  in 
the  humbler  and  more  practical  pur- 
suits of  life.  Is  it  not  true,  too,  that 
a  people's  advancement  in  civilization 
can  be  measured  by  the  manner  in 
which  they  prepare  and  cook  their 
food  ?  The  savage  tears  his  food,  and 
often  eats  it  raw.  As  he  emerges  from 
barbarism  more  refined  ways  are  prac- 
tised. 

We  invite  the  attention  of  those  who 
may  be  interested  in  this  item  to  an 
article  on  another  page,  entitled  "  The 
English  Kitchen."  The  opening  sen- 
tence reads  thus  :  "  Every  land  has  the 
government  and  the  table  which  it 
deserves." 


The  home  is  largely  woman's  crea- 
tion. It  springs  from  her  ideal  of  the 
good  and  desirable.  It  is  an  art,  as 
much  as  the  poem  or  painting,  that 
excites  admiration.  Xo  less  inspira- 
tion, cultivation,  and  thought  are  re- 
quired to  achieve  success  in  the  former, 
than  to  perfect  the  latter.  In  other 
words,  successful  attainment  in  home- 
making  demands  not  only  tact  and 
energy,  but  concentration  of  thought, 
devotion,  and  loftv  ideals. 


After=  Breakfast  Chat 


Life  and  health,  which  are  both  inestimable,  we  have  of  the  physician." 

Joy  is  just  as  much  a  duty  as  beneficence  is.     Thankfulness  is  the  other  side  of  mercy. 


A  recent  article  on  the  use  of  glass 
bottles,  in  the  distribution  of  milk,  is 
worthy  of  comment,  if  not  of  criticism. 
Several  cases  of  infection,  it  seems,  were 
traced  to  milk  conveyed  in  jars  that 
formerly  had  been  delivered  at  houses 
where  the  same  disease  was  raging. 
The  physician  claimed  that  the  jars 
had  not  been  thoroughly  sterilized,  and, 
moreover,  that  the  proper  sterilization 
of  glass  is  not  practicable  on  account 
of  loss  by  breakage. 

In  the  latter  part  of  his  conclusion 
we  are  inclined  to  think  the  physician 
is  too  hasty ;  for  glass  cans  for  fruit, 
jelly,  and  even  the  bottles  for  the  nur- 
sery, must  be  sterilized  perfectly  by  the 
average  housekeeper,  or  the  contents 
would  not  keep :  and,  besides,  the 
dealer  careless  in  cleansing  glass  would 
be  equally,  if  not  more,  liable  to  neg- 
lect in  the  case  of  tin  cans.  At  any 
rate,  on  our  part,  we  choose  to  take 
our  chances  with  milk  delivered  in  glass 
jars. 

Most  intimately  related,  no  doubt, 
to  our  milk  supply  are  the  summer  dis- 
orders prevalent  with  young  children; 
anything  that  aids  in  securing  fresh, 
pure  milk  tends  to  decrease  by  so  much 
the  yearly  loss  of  life  among  this  class 
during  the  heated  season.  Ours  is  an 
era  of  preventive  methods.  The  up- 
to-date  physician  aims  to  cure  disease 
when  he  must ;  but  he  chooses  to  pre- 
vent its  occurrence  when  he  can.     The 


first  step  in  the  prevention  of  infantile 
disorders  lies  in  a  sure  supply  of  fresh, 
pure  milk,  which  can  be  fed  at  regular 
intervals  and  in  proper  quantities. 


At  the  monthly  meeting  of  the  New 
York  Academy  of  Medicine  in  June,  a 
large  number  of  papers  were  read,  and 
considerable  time  was  devoted  to  the 
discussion  of  the  subject  of  infant  feed- 
ing ;  and  the  conclusions  reached  by 
such  eminent  practitioners  as  Lush, 
Carr,  Jacobi,  and  Holt  —  men  who  have 
given  a  lifetime  to  the  study  of  vital 
questions  —  should  be  put  into  a  form 
to  reach  every  mother  in  the  land. 

How  few  mothers  have  had  any  defi- 
nite training  in  the  elements  of  dietetics ! 
How  few  understand  the  relation  of 
cause  and  effect  in  matters  of  diet  and 
health  !  And  yet  the  treatment  of  ordi- 
nary cases  of  infantile  disorders  be- 
comes simple  when  these  things  are 
properly  understood.  The  mother  who 
knows  that  her  child  is  suffering  from 
milk  poisoning,  brought  about,  not  nec- 
essarily by  poor  milk,  but  by  the  ten- 
dency (made  doubly  so  by  heat)  of  all 
proteid  substances  to  decomposition, 
also  understands  that,  until  all  infec- 
tious germs  are  washed  from  the  stom- 
ach and  intestines,  and  these  organs 
be  given  an  opportunity  to  regain  their 
wonted  vigor,  a  milk  diet,  in  any  form, 
cannot  be  continued  without  feeding 
the  disease. 


7« 


THE    BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


( )ne  of  the  conclusions  that  was  em- 
phasized at  this  meeting  of  the  Acad- 
emy of  Medicine  is  particularly  inter- 
esting to  the  student  of  dietetics.  It 
is  not  a  new  discovery,  but  simply  more 
conclusive  evidence  of  the  truthfulness 
of  what  has  been  claimed  by  the  lead- 
ing German  and  American  physicians 
for  a  quarter  of  a  century.  The  con- 
current opinion  among  the  physicians 
was  in  favor  of  the  use  of  oat  or  barley 
water,  in  combination  with  milk,  for 
infant  feeding.  The  old  theory  that 
starch  cannot  possibly  be  digested  by 
a  young  child  is  said  to  be  no  longer 
tenable. 


She  who  has  come  to  entertain  cor- 
rect ideas  on  dietetics  will,  also,  fully 
understand  the  value  of  change  and 
fresh  air  as  a  tonic  in  all  cases  of  dys- 
peptic and  nervous  troubles.  Indi- 
vidual thought,  combined  with  good 
judgment,  is  the  one  thing  needed  in 
the  solution  of  the  every-day  problems 
that  perplex  the  housekeeper,  the  food 
and  the  servant  question  included.  We 
need  to  have  a  definite  and  fixed  idea 
of  what  we  wish  to  accomplish,  even 
in  little  things.  Think  over  and  plan 
out  what  is  worth  your  doing  in  the 
next  day  or  month.  Consider  what 
will  bring  the  greatest  good  to  the 
greatest  number  in  your  own  household. 
Plan  the  minutest  details  of  what  you 
are  to  undertake,  though  others  may 
be  called  upon  to  execute  them  for  you. 
The  commander-in-chief  must  know 
how  to  burnish  his  accoutrements, 
though  higher  duties  require  his  atten- 
tion. And,  having  carefully  formu- 
lated your  plans,  you  will  have  confi- 
dence in  exercising  the  requisite  firm- 


ness to  secure  their  execution ;  nor  at  the 
same  time  will  you  neglect  to  combine 
courtesy  and  gentleness  with  firmness. 
If  your  judgment  be  unerring,  you  will 
choose  to  do  those  things  that  are  ap- 
propriate to  you,  and  for  which  you 
have  special  fitness.  Has  not  Emerson 
said:  ''Insist  on  yourself;  never  imi- 
tate. Your  own  gift  you  can  present 
every  moment  with  the  cumulative  force 
of  a  whole  life's  cultivation  ;  but  of  the 
adopted  talent  of  another  you  have 
only  an  extemporaneous,  half  posses- 
sion. That  which  each  can  do  best, 
none  but  his  Maker  can  teach  him." 


AN    UNSANITARY    PRACTICE. 

The  New  York  board  of  health 
urges  housekeepers  to  refuse  to  buy 
vegetables  or  fruits  exposed  to  the  dust 
of  the  street.  The  dust  that  accumu- 
lates on  these  exposed  food  products 
is  often  laden  with  disease  germs,  and 
if  this  were  not  so,  it  is  uncleanly  and 
unsanitary.  Meat,  game,  and  poultry 
are  rarely  so  exposed,  except  in  the 
lower  tenement  houses.  While  it  is 
true  that  all  such  foods  are  washed, 
peeled,  and  cooked  before  being  eaten, 
it  does  not  follow  that  all  the  germ- 
laden  deposit  is  either  removed  or 
sterilized.  Foods  of  all  kinds  should 
be  protected  from  all  possible  contam- 
ination, and  the  demand  made  by 
housekeepers  will  be  met  by  merchants. 
—  The  Outlook. 


"  Far  above  us  all  rises  the  ideal  of 
which  we  dream,  whether  that  ideal  is 
one  of  happiness,  of  wide  usefulness, 
or  of  intellectual  or  spiritual  attain- 
ment." 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


79 


SEASONABLE  MENUS  FOR  ONE  WEEK  IN  AUGUST. 

No  man  can  be  wise  on  an  empty  stomach. — George  Eliot. 


BREAKFAST. 

Boiled  Rice,  Cream. 

Broiled  Finnan-Haddie,  Baked  Potatoes. 

Sliced  Tomatoes. 

Yeast  Rolls  (reheated).  Peaches. 

Old  Grist-mill  Wheat  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Yeal  Broth,  with  Macaroni  Alphabet. 

Fricassee  of  Chicken,  Cauliflower,  Boiled, 

Allemand  Sauce. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Lettuce  Salad.  Melons. 

Cafe  Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Lettuce-Salad  Sandwiches. 

Sponge  Drops.  Berries.  Tea. 


BREAKFAST. 

Rolled  Wheat,  Cream. 

Fresh  Codfish  Cakes,  Poached  Eggs, 

Bacon. 

Sliced  Tomatoes.  Toasted  Muffins. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cream-of-Corn  Soup,  Croutons. 

Apple  Pie,  Whipped  Cream.        Tea. 

DINNER. 

Bouillon. 

Roast  Yeal. 

Wheatena,  with  Butter  and  Parsley. 

Franconia  Cucumbers,  Lima  Beans. 

Currant  Jelly.  Tomato  Salad. 

Peaches  and  Cream,  Frozen. 


BREAKFAST. 

Granulated  Barley,  Cream. 

Omelet  Filled  with  Creamed  Chicken. 

Broiled  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Dry,  Buttered  Toast.  Blueberries. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Bread  and  Milk,  with  Sweet  Apples, 

Baked. 

Cup  Custard. 

DINNER. 

Chicken  Soup,  with  Rice. 

Tenderloin  of  Beef,  Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter. 

Potato  Balls.  Stuffed  Egg  Plant. 

Cauliflower-and-Pimento  Salad. 

Sliced  Peaches  and  Pineapple,  Sugared. 

Wafers.  Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Sweet  Apples,  Baked,  Gluten  Grits, 

Cream. 

Broiled  Honeycomb  Tripe. 

Baked  Potatoes. 

Yeast  Rolls  (reheated).  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Sifted  Apple  Sauce,  Neufchatel  Cheese. 

New  Rye  Bread  and  Butter.     Tea. 

DINNER. 

Bouillon. 

Cold  Yeal,  Sliced  Thin,  Cucumber  Sauce. 

Stuffed  Egg  Plant. 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Pim-Olas.  Lettuce  Salad. 

Apple  Sandwich. 

Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Wheatena,  Cream. 

Yeal  Cutlets,  Brown  Hashed  Potatoes. 

Baked  Apples. 

New  Rye-Meal  Muffins.      Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Boiled  Head  and  Shoulder  of  Cod, 

Pickle  Sauce.     Plain  Boiled  Potatoes. 

Spinach -an  d-Egg  Salad. 

Baked  Peach-and-Tapioca  Pudding. 

Cafe  Noir. 

S  UPPER. 

Broiled  or  Fried  Chicken. 

Tomatoes,  Whipped-Cream  Dressing. 

Parker-House  Rolls.    Berries.      Wafers. 

Tea. 


BREAKFAST. 

Melon. 

Boiled  Rice,  Cream. 

Salt  Codfish,  Flaked,  Melted  Butter. 

Baked  Potatoes.  Broiled  Tomatoes. 

Toast.  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Potato  Salad.  Salad  Rolls. 

Gingerbread.    Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Veal  Souffle,  Soubise  Sauce. 

Corn  on  the  Cob.  Pim-Olas. 

Cauliflower  Salad. 
Vanilla  Cream  Ice,  Chocolate  Sauce. 
Wafers. 
Cafe  Noir. 


BRFAKFAST. 

Blueberries, 

Toasted  Wheat,  Cream. 

Frizzled  Dried  Beef. 

Creamed  Potatoes. 

Rice  Waffles. 

Old  Grist-mill  Wheat 

Coffee. 


DINNER. 

Goulash. 

Escalloped  Tomatoes  and 

Onions. 

Cabbage  Salad. 

Cocoanut  Dulce,  Crackers. 

Cottage  Cheese. 

Cafe  Noir. 


SUPPER. 

Rice  and  Milk. 

Cream  Pie. 

Sliced  Peaches. 

Tea. 


X 

z 
> 

< 


so 


THE  BOSTON   COOKIXG-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


ECONOMICAL  MENUS  FOR  ONE  WEEK  IN  AUGUST. 

Futti 

The  palate  is  the  janitor,  and,  unless  he  be 


BBEAKFAST.       Cost,   .IS. 

Boiled  Rire,  Cream,  .06. 
Crf*am  Toast,  Broiled  Tomatoes,  .07. 
Parker-House  Rolls  (reheated).  . 
Cereal  Coffee,  .03. 
DIXXEB.     Cost,  .SI. 
Clam  Bouillon. 
Smoked  Beef  with  Spinach  Puree,  . 
Candied  Sweet  Potatoes,  .02. 
Turnips  in  White  Sauce,  .05. 
Tomato  Salad,  .04. 
Milk  Sherbet,  .10.     Cafe  Noir,  .o- 
SUP  FEB.      Cost.  .28. 
Smoked  Halibut,  .05. 

Bread  and  Butter,  .05. 

Sliced  Peaches, 


il>    of  Three.) 

conciliated,  the  most  nutritious  food  will  find  no  welcome. 

BREAKFAST.     Cost.   .84. 

Granose  Biscuit,  Toasted,  .04. 
Salt  Codfish  in  Egg  Sauce,  .10. 
02.  Baked  Potatoes,  .02. 

Breakfast  Corn  Cake,  .05. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .03. 

l.ZXCHEOX.     Cost.  .27. 

Rice,  Milanaise  Fashion,  .10. 

Apple  Pie.  Cottage  Cheese,  .15.    Tea,  .02. 

DIXXEB.     Cost.  Sl.OO. 

Boiled  Tongue,  .54. 

>•  Puree  of  Spinach,  .17. 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Macaroni,  .10. 
Cabbage-and-Green-Pepper  Salad,  .07. 
Boiled  Rice,  Yellow  Sauce,  .oS. 
.15.  Coffee,  .04. 


BREAKFAST.      Cost,   JS4. 

Rolled  Wheat,  Cream,  .05. 

Poached  Eggs.  Buttered  Toast,  .08. 

Sliced  Tomatoes,  .03. 

Rice  Muffins,  .03.     Coffee,  .05. 

LUNCHEON.     Cost,   .2S. 

Corn  Custard,  .13. 

Rice  Muffins,  Toasted. 

Muskmelon,  .15. 
DINNER.    Cost,  .67. 
Clam  Bouillon. 
Bluefish,  Broiled,  .30. 

Mashed  Potatoes,  .04. 
Lima  Beans,  .10. 
Peach-and-Almond  Salad,  .20. 
Cereal  Coffee,  .0^. 


BBJSA  K  FA  S  T.      Cost,  .gS. 

Wheatena,  Baked  Apples,  Cream,  .oS. 
Boiled  Eggs,  .06. 
Green-Corn  Griddle-cakes,  .oS. 
Cereal  Coffee,  .03. 
DIXXEB.     Cost.     BO. 
Cream  of  Spinach,  .10. 
Cold  Tongue.  Sliced  Thin,  Succotash,  .1^ 
Cabbage-and-Beet  Salad.  .oS. 
Blueberry  Pie,  .1  5. 
Tea,  .02. 
SUPPEB.    Cost.   .2S. 
Boiled  Rice  and  Milk 
Dried  Beef,  .05.     Toast,  .03. 
Peaches  Stewed  with  Apples,  .10. 
Iced  Tea,  .03. 


BREAKFAST.      Cost,  .23. 

Toasted  Wheat.  Cream,  .05. 
Eggs  Scrambled  with  Tomatoes  and 
Cheese,  .12. 
Entire-Wheat  Bread,  Toasted,  .03. 
Cereal  Coffee,  .03. 
IUXCHEOX.     Cost,   .42. 
Stuffed  Egg  Plant,  .20. 
Baking-Powder  Biscuit,  .10. 
Berries,  .10.  Tea,  .02. 

DIXXEB.     Cost.  .40. 
Cream  of  Lima  Beans,  .16. 

Escalloped  Bluefish,  .06. 

Mashed  Potatoes,  Broiled. 
Boiled  Corn,  .03.       Cole-slaw,  .05. 
Baked  Pears,  .06.  Cafe  Noir,  .04. 


BREAKFAST.    Cost.  .IS. 

Quaker  Oats,  Cream,  .05. 

Fresh    Codfish    Cakes, 

Poached  Eggs,  .06. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles,  .02. 

Brownbread,  Toasted,  .02. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .03. 


BBEAKFAST.     Cost.   .35. 

Granulated  Barley,  Cream,  .07. 
Broiled  Tripe,  Stewed  Potatoes.  .15. 
Pickled  Beets,  .02. 
Baking-Powder  Biscuit  (Entire  Wheat), .07. 
Coffee,  .04. 
DIXXEB.     Cost.   .52. 
Boiled  Head  and  Shoulder  of  Cod,  Egg 
Sauce,  .30. 
Potato  Roses,  Sliced  Tomatoes, 
Peach-and-Tapioca  Pudding.  .oS. 
Coffee,  .04. 
SI  A' PER.    Cost.    27. 
Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Tongue.  Mayon- 
naise Dressing,  .10. 
Bread  and  Butter,  .05.  Berries,  .10.  Tea,  .02. 


DIXXEB.     Cost.  .40. 
Calfs  Heart.  Stuffed.  .12. 
Boiled    Rice    with    Pars- 
ley,  05. 
Corn  on  the  Cob,  .03. 
Lettuce-and-Celerv  Salad. 

.oS. 
Peaches  with  Junket  and 
Cream,  .10. 
Tea. 


L  l  X CHEOX.      Cost.  .15. 

Codfish-and-Lettuce  Salad, 

French  Dressing.  .08. 

Granose  Biscuit,  .03. 

Coffee,  .04. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


81 


ECONOMICAL    LUNCHEON    DISHES.    SEPTEMBER, 

Designed  for  Quick  Service  at  Schools,  Stores,  Etc. 

"  Luncheon  is  base  ingratitude  to  breakfast,  and  premeditated  insult  to  dinner." 


MONDAY. 

Tomato  Soup,  Croutons,  .10. 

Sliced-Ham  Sandwich,  .06. 

Lettuce  Sandwich,  .04. 
Lettuce-and-Egg  Salad,  .06. 
Buttered  Muffins  (hot),  .02  each. 

Macaroni  a  la  Italien,  .05. 

Sliced  Peaches  with  Cream,  .10. 

Cereal-Coffee  Jelly,  Whipped  Cream,  .05. 

Tea,  .03.  Coffee,  .04. 

Cocoa,  .04. 


WEDNESDAY. 

Cream  of  Celery,  Pulled  Bread,  .10. 

Smoked-Beef  Sandwich,  .06. 

Lettuce  Sandwich,  .04. 

Lettuce-and-Salmon  (Canned)  Salad,  .06. 

Lettuce-and-Tomato  Salad,  .05. 

Boiled  Rice  and  Milk  (bowl),  .05. 

Cream  Cheese,  Apple  Sauce,  .08. 

Apple-and-Tapioca  Pudding,  Whipped 

Cream,  .06. 

Cocoa  Shells,  .02.  Hot  Milk,  .03. 

Tea,  .03. 


TUESDAY. 

Cream-of-Corn  Soup,  Buttered  Crackers, 

.10. 

Chopped-Ham  Sandwich,  .05. 

Bread-and-Butter  Sandwich,  .03. 

Lettuce-and-Celery  Salad,  .04. 

Lettuce-and-Ham  Salad,  .07. 

Buttered  Muffins  (hot),  .02  each. 

Pineapple-and-Tapioca  Pudding,  Whipped 

Cream,  .08. 

Baked  Apples,  Whipped  Cream,  .05. 

Hot  Milk,  .03.      Tea,  .03.       Coffee,  .04. 

Cocoa,  .04. 


THURSDAY. 

Cream  of  Chicken,  Bread,  .10. 

Sliced-Chicken  Sandwich,  .08. 

Celery-and-Chicken  Salad,  .08. 

Macaroni  in  Cream  Sauce,  .04. 

Baked  Potato,  Smoked  Halibut,  .06. 

Granulated  Barley  and  Milk  (bowl),  .06. 

Cup  Custard,  Baked,  .04. 

Egg  Junket,  Whipped  Cream,  .05. 

Hot  Bouillon,  .05.         Hot  Milk,  .03. 

Cocoa,  .04. 


FRIDAY. 

Fish  Chowder,  Crackers,  .10. 

Corn  Chowder,  Crackers,  .10. 

Tomato  Salad,  .04. 

Sliced  Tomatoes,  .02. 

Chopped-Chicken  Sandwich,  .06. 

Date  Sandwich,  .04.  Muffins,  .02. 

Gelatine  Blanc-mange,  Boiled  Custard,  .08. 

Neufchatel  Cheese,  Stewed  Peaches,  .10. 

Beef  Tea,  .04.  Lemonade,  .03. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .03. 


*2 


THE  BOS  TO X  COOKIXG-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


IN   REFERENCE  TO  PRECEDING  MENUS. 


In  September,  or  early  in  October, 
business  is  wont  to  revive.  Schools 
open,  factories  start  up,  and  a  new- 
year  of  activity,  physical  and  mental, 
:.tered  upon.  In  large  cities  the 
hours  of  occupation  are  from  eight 
a.m.  to  half  past  live  or  six  o'clock  p.m. 
Long  hours,  and  the  distance  of  the  em- 
ployees from  their  places  of  residence, 
necessitate  the  taking  of  a  lunchlet.  at 
least,  away  from  home.  Thus  health 
is  impaired  and  the  seeds  of  chronic 
dyspepsia  are  sown,  chiefly  because 
of  the  cold  and  unsuitable  food  in- 
gested at  this  meal.  For  this  con- 
sideration, and  also,  perhaps,  from 
the  fact  that  effort  depends  largely 
upon  the  condition  of  health,  many 
large  business  concerns,  particularly 
in  the  West,  have  fitted  up  kitchens  and 
dining-rooms  in  connection  with  their 
establishments,  in  which  luncheon  may 
be  prepared  and  served  both  to  the 
managers  of  the  concern  and  to  their 
employees. 

In  some  notable  instances,  rooms 
have  been  provided  with  fittings  and 
attendance  regardless  of  expense.  One 
of  these  kitchens  is  described  at  con- 
siderable length  in  the  present  number 
of  this  magazine  ;  in  it  we  have  no 
doubt  the  corporation  rind  they  have 
made  a  wise  and  profitable  investment. 
But.  for  the  most  part,  the  cos; 
had  to  be  taken  into  account, 
carding  elaborate  furnishings,  labor 
seems  to  be  the  most  expensive  item 
to  be  met.  and  if  arrangements  can  be 
perfected  by  which  the  cost  of  serving 
can  be  cut  down  to  a  minimum,  whole- 
some, appetizing  food  may  be  furnished 
at  nominal  cost. 


We  outline  very  briefly  below  a  plan 

similar  to  one  adopted  in  several  large 
institutions  of  learning  for  serving  a 
noonday  luncheon,  in  which  the  labor- 
og  feature  is  emphasized  in  the 
serving,  rather  than  in  the  preparation 
of  the  food. 

Two  of  the  rive  or  six  young  women 
employed  to  prepare  a  luncheon  for 
one  hundred  and  fifty  individuals  may 
be  transferred  to  the  dining-room  dur- 
ing the  hours  of  serving.  —  that  is, 
from  half  past  eleven  to  half  past  one 
o'clock.  Under  these  conditions,  the 
serving-room  need  not  ne  be 

large. 

Upon  a  counter,  at  one  end  and 
near   the   kitcher.  .ced  piles  of 

pla:—     g 

forks,  and  spoons,  the  tea  and  coffee 
urns,  milk,  cocoa,  and  water,  as  also 
fruit,  fresh  or  cooked,  sandwiches,  and 
such  kinds  of  s    .-.re  prac: 

ble.    All  these  :e  replenished  as 

they  are  needed.  The  menu  for  the  day. 
with  the  price  of  each  article  appended. 
is  posted  in  a  conspicuous  place.  As 
b  individual  enters  he  decides  upon 
the  food  he  desires,  makes  out  a  list 
upon  a  bit  of  paper,  and  gives  it  with 
the  requisite  amount  of  cash  to  the 
attendant.  He  supplies  himself  with 
rr  and  such  dishes  as  he  needs,  and 
carries  them  to  one  of  the  tables  with 
which  the  room  is  provided,  and  where 
he  afterwards  takes  the  food  brought 
to  the  counter  for  him. 

In  making  out  the  menus  for  these 
luncheor.  .^e  into  consideration 

that  September  is  usually  a  hot  month. 
and  no  heavy  or  heating  dishes  are 
given.     The 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


83 


from  starch,  while  sandwiches  and 
salads  are  given  in  each  menu  ;  but  the 
price  of  the  latter  is  such  that  hot  milk, 
tea,  coffee,  or  cocoa  may  be  included 
with  them,  and  at  a  cost  not  exceeding 
ten  cents.  Also,  care  has  been  exer- 
cised to  select  dishes  that  will  keep  up 
the  strength  without  taxing  the  diges- 
tive organs,  the  blood  being  needed  in 
other  parts  of  the  body  than  in  the 
stomach,  until  after  the  work  of  the 
day  is  completed. 

In  both  our  economical  and  season- 
able menus  the  cereal  is  served  without 
sugar.  Cereals  being  largely  composed 
of  starch,  which  in  the  process  of 
digestion  is  converted  into  sugar,  sugar 
as  an  accompaniment  would  be  contra- 
indicated,  and  this  is  emphatically  the 
case  during  hot  weather. 

Although  rice  contains  much  starch, 
there  is  a  notable  absence  of  tough 
fibre  in  its  composition  ;  and  this  re- 
moves a  very  objectionable  feature 
that  is  found  in  most  grains,  and  places 
rice  among  the  easily-digested  foods. 
Indeed,  on  this  account  it  may  be  con- 
sidered a  typical  summer  food,  and  as 
such  we  have  used  it  freely  in  our 
August  menus.  To  insure  keeping,  use 
scalded  milk  to  moisten  the  mashed 
potatoes  served  at  dinner  Monday; 
after  dinner  press  the  remaining  por- 
tion into  a  square  dish,  and  the  next 
day  cut  in  slices,  brush  over  with  but- 
ter, and  broil  over  a  rather  dull  fire. 

In  the  seasonable  menus,  we  have. 
Monday,  tenderloin  of  beef  cut  into 
fillets  and  broiled.  This  cut  being 
tender,  and  so  easily  digested,  is  well 
adapted  to  occasional  use  at  this  sea- 
son. In  the  Boston  markets  it  retails 
at  thirty-five  cents  per  pound ;  this  in 
reality  is  no  dearer  than  sirloin  at 
twenty-eight  cents,  on   account  of  the 


absence  of  all  waste.  In  places  where 
they  are  available,  sweet  peppers,  veins 
and  seeds  removed,  may  be  cooked 
until  tender  and.  when  cold,  sliced  and 
mixed  with  the  cold  cooked  cauliflower 
in  the  salad.  Where  they  are  not  grown, 
canned  pimentos  (Spanish  sweet  pep- 
pers) may  take  their  place.  On  ac- 
count of  their  brilliant  color,  pimentos 
are  a  pleasing  addition  to  many  a 
salad,  and  when  used  sparingly  their 
sweet,  mild   flavor  is  usually  relished. 

In  making  the  baked  peach-and-tap- 
ioca  pudding,  sprinkle  the  peaches, 
from  which  the  skins  and  stones  have 
been  removed,  with  lemon  juice  as  an 
aid  to  keep  them  from  discoloring  and 
to  bring  out  their  flavor,  then  pour  the 
tapioca,  cooked  in  boiling  water  and 
sweetened,  over  them,  and  bake  until 
the  peaches  are  tender.  Serve  with 
cream. 

Serve  the  spinach- and  -  egg  salad, 
Tuesday  noon,  with  French  dressing,  as 
that  leaves  the  way  open  to  serve  a 
heavier  dressing  with  the  tomatoes  at 
night.  Mayonnaise  may  be  used  with 
the  tomatoes,  but  in  connection  with 
the  chicken  a  cream  dressing  will  be 
found  particularly  appropriate.  Thick 
sweet,  or  sour  cream,  may  be  used.  If 
sour  be  chosen,  discard  all  other  acids; 
a  flavoring  of  horseradish  would  suit 
some,  and  powdered  tarragon,  or  tarra- 
gon vinegar,  would  be  more  pleasing 
to  others. 

Wednesday  we  serve  with  the  roast, 
in  the  place  of  potatoes,  a  cereal  sea- 
soned with  butter  and  parsley.  The 
dish  is  well  worth  a  trial  by  those  who 
think  that  the  only  way  of  serving 
cereals  is  with  sugar  and  milk.  Cu- 
cumbers, now  past  their  prime,  will  be 
found  truly  delectable,  cooked  and 
basted    with   the  roast. 


84 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


RECIPES  USED  IN  PRECEDING  MENUS. 

(In  all  recipes  where  flour  is  used,  unless  otherwise  stated,  the  flour  is  measured 
after  sifting  once.  When  flour  is  measured  by  cups,  the  cup  is  filled  with  a 
spoon  and  a  level  cupful  is  meant.  A  tablespoonful  or  a  teaspoonful  of  any 
designated  material  is  a  level  spoonful  of  such  material.) 


CUPS  AND  SPOONS  SHOWING   METHOD  OF  MEASURING. 


ECONOMICAL  RECIPES. 
Rice,  Milanaise  Fashion. 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into 
a  stewpan,  and  when  hot  cook  in  it, 
without  browning,  a  slice  of  onion, 
chopped  ;  then  add  half  a  cup  of  rice, 
thoroughly  washed,  and  about  a  quart 
of  stock  (white),  or  hot  water.  Cook 
until  the  rice  is  tender  and  the  liquid 
absorbed  ;  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  grated  cheese,  and  salt,  if  needed. 
Stir  gently  with  a  fork,  turn  into  a 
serving-dish,  and  sprinkle  the  top  with 
a  little  more  of  the  grated  cheese. 
Serve  as  a  vegetable,  or  as  a  luncheon 
dish,  either  with  or  without  a  brown 
sauce. 

Rice,  with   Parsley  or  Chives. 

Cook  half  a  cup  of  rice  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender  (an  aluminoid 
dish  will  be  found  useful  for  this  pur- 
pose) ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter and  one  tablespoonful  of  finely- 
chopped  parsley  or  chives  ;  mix  gently 


so    as    to    avoid    breaking   the  grains. 
Serve  as  a  vegetable. 

Smoked  Beef  with   Spinach. 

Put  two  pounds  of  dried  beef, 
smoked,  over  the  fire,  in  cold  water; 
let  come  to  the  boiling-point,  then 
skim,  and  let  simmer  until  tender. 
Serve  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  laid,  one 
overlapping  another,  on  a  bed  of  spin- 
ach puree. 

Date  Sandwiches, 

Remove  the  seeds  and  white  pith 
from  half  a  pound  of  dates ;  chop  fine, 
and  put  over  the  fire  to  cook  with 
water  to  moisten  ;  stir  and  cook  until 
smooth.  Let  cool,  then  spread  upon 
slices  of  entire-wheat  or  oatmeal  bread, 
buttered,  after  removing  the  crusts. 
Press  two  slices  together. 

Egg  funket,    Whipped  Cream. 

Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  beat  the  whites  until 
dry  and  the  yolks  until   thick  ;  gradu- 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


85 


ally  add  the  yolks  to  the  whites,  beat- 
ing constantly.  Heat  one  pint  of  milk 
until  lukewarm, —  about  980  Fahr., — 
dissolve  in  this  one-fourth  a  cup  of 
sugar,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
extract,  and  pour  over  the  beaten  eggs ; 
stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  liquid  rennet, 
or  half  a  junket  tablet  dissolved  in  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  cold  water,  and  turn 
into  sherbet  glasses.  Let  stand  in  a 
warm  place  about  half  an  hour  until 
firm,  then  chill.  Serve  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  whipped  cream,  sweetened 
and  flavored,  on  the  top  of  each 
glass. 

Boiled  Bice  for  Dessert. 
Pick  over  and  wash   half  a  cup  of 
rice ;  pour  over  it  one  pint  of  boiling 
water,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 


and  let  boil  vigorously  until  the  water 
is  absorbed ;  add  a  cup  of  milk,  and 
steam  over  hot  water  until  the  rice  is 
tender,  adding  more  liquid  if  neces- 
sary.    Serve  with 

YELLOW    SAUCE. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  until  light 
and  the  white  until  foamy ;  add  half  a 
cup  of  sugar  to  the  yolk,  then  fold  in 
the  white,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  extract,  and  one  cup  of  scalded 
milk  ;  mix  thoroughly  and  serve.  If 
maple  syrup  be  at  hand,  the  following 
sauce  may  be  used. 

MAPLE-SYRUP    SAUCE. 

Boil  together,  five  or  six  minutes, 
one  cup  of  maple  syrup  and  the  juice 
of  one  lemon.  Remove  from  the  fire 
and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 


MINIONS   OF    BEEF.  TENDERLOIN. 


Millions  of  Beef  Te?iderloin. 
Cut  a  pound  of  well-trimmed  tender- 
loin into  five  or  six  slices ;  remove  the 
skin,    and    press    into    round    shapes, 


brush  with  oil  or  melted  butter,  and 
broil  over  the  coals  about  six  minutes, 
first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other. 
Season  with   salt,   pepper,   butter,  and 


S6 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


chopped  cress.  Dress  on  a  hot  dish 
against  a  pile  of  potato  balls  cooked 
a  la  maitre  d'hotel. 

Potatoes  a  la  Maitre  it  'Hotel. 
Cook  one  pint  of  potato  balls,  cut 
with  French  cutter,  in  boiling  salted 
water,  ten  minutes ;  drain,  and  add 
about  one  cup  of  milk.  Cream  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  one  yolk 
of  egg,  beat  in  well  a  tablespoonful 
of  lemon  juice,  one    tablespoonful    of 


tongue  is  very  tender ;  remove  the 
skin  and  roots,  reduce  the  broth  some- 
what, and  with  it  brush  over  several 
times,  keeping  the  tongue  hot  in  the 
oven  meantime;  serve  on  a  bed  of 

SPINACH    PUREE. 

Pass  the  cooked  spinach  through  a 
sieve,  or  chop  it  very  tine ;  season  with 
salt,  paprica,  butter,  lemon  juice,  and  a 
little  of  the  stock  in  which  the  tongue 
was  cooked.     Garnish  with  the  white  of 


BOILED    TONGUE,    SPINACH    PUREE. 


chopped  parsley,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and,  when  the  milk  is  partly  ab- 
sorbed, stir  into  the  potatoes ;  serve 
when  thickened  slightly. 

Boiled  Tongue. 
Wash  a  pickled  tongue  of  beef  and 
put  it  over  the  fire,  with  cold  water 
to  cover ;  add  two  slices  of  bacon,  a 
sprig  of  parsley,  an  onion,  and  a  dozen 
peppercorns,  or  half  a  green  pepper. 
Heat  to  the  boiling-point,  then  let  sim- 
mer   about    four    hours,    or    until    the 


an  egg.  cooked,  cut  in  eighths,  length- 
wise, and  the  yolk  entire. 
Goulash. 
Cut  two  pounds  of  flank,  or  round, 
of  beef  into  cubes  an  inch  and  a  half 
in  size.  Heat  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
drippings  in  a  Scotch  bowl,  saute'  in  it 
half  an  onion  and  a  small  carrot  cut 
fine.  When  slightly  browned  add  the 
meat,  and  brown  ;  then  add  a  cup  of 
hot  water  or  stock.  Cover  tightly  and 
let  stew  on  the  back  of   the  stove  until 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


87 


nearly  tender.  Parboil  potatoes,  cut  in 
balls,  five  minutes ;  add  to  the  meat 
with  one  teaspoonful  of  paprica,  half  a 
cup  of  hot  water,  and  salt  to  taste. 
Simmer  another  half-hour,  or  until  the 
meat  is  tender.  Brown  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  brown,  then  add 
one  cup  of  brown  stock,  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  pep- 
per, and  stir  into  the  meat.     Allow  the 


Fresh  Codfish  Cakes  {Remnants  of  Boiled 
Cod). 
Pass  hot  boiled  potatoes  through  a 
ricer,  or  vegetable  press ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  and  one  egg,  beaten,  to 
each  pint  of  potatoes,  and  beat  thor- 
oughly ;  a  perforated  wooden  spoon  is 
good  for  the  purpose.  Add  an  equal 
amount  of  cooked  fish,  flaked,  either 
hot  or  cold,  two  or  three  tablespoon- 


CODFISH  CAKES  AND  POACHED  EGGS. 


sauce  to  boil,  then  turn  on  to  a  serving- 
dish,  and  garnish  with  one  dozen  pi- 
mentos, heated  and  arranged  on  rounds 
of  toast.  Spread  the  pimentos  with 
maitre  d'hotel  butter,  and  sprinkle 
with  chopped  parsley. —  Sophie  Cohen. 
Maitre  d' Hotel  Butter. 
Cream  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter,  add 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pep- 
per, half  a  tablespoonful  of  finely-chop- 
ped parsley,  and  three-fourths  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice  very  slowly. 


fuls  of  egg  sauce,  if  any  remain,  or  a 
little  more  butter,  and  when  thoroughly 
mixed  shape  into  flat  cakes.  Put  slices 
of  bacon  into  a  hot  frying-pan,  and  turn 
each  slice  in  a  spiral  fashion  while 
cooking.  Saute  the  fish  cakes  in  the 
hot  fat,  after  removing  the  bacon  to 
soft  paper  to  drain,  first  on  one  side, 
and  then  on  the  other ;  place  a  well- 
poached  egg  on  the  top  of  each  cake, 
curls  of  bacon  between,  and  parsley 
with  a  radish  in  the  centre, 


ss 


THE  BOS  VOX  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


Cream  of  Lima  Beans  and  Onions. 

Boil  one  pint  of  lima  beans  and  two 
onions,  cut  in  slices,  with  a  sprig  of 
parsley,  until  the  vegetables  are  ten- 
der ;  pass  through  a  sieve.  Make  a 
pint  of  white  sauce  of  one-fourth  a 
cup,  each,  of  butter  and  rlour,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  paprica, 
and  one  pint  of  milk.  When  boiling, 
stir  in  one  pint  of  the  vegetable  pure'e ; 
let  boil  up  once,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 


knife,  and  use  as  a  garnish  for  meat  or 
fish.  When  used  as  a  border  for  a 
creamed  dish,  set  closely  together  on 
the  serving-dish,  or,  better  still,  shape 
close  together  on  the  serving-dish  so 
as  to  avoid  removal.  Smaller  roses 
may  be  arranged  between  the  larger 
ones,  so  as  to  make  a  solid  wall,  to 
retain  what  may  be  served  within. 
Sometimes  the  whole  wall  is  built  up 
of   small  roses,  in  a  manner  similar  to 


POTATO  ROSES. 


chopped  parsley,  and  serve  with  crou- 
tons. 

Potato  Roses. 
To  two  cups  of  hot  potato,  passed 
through  a  vegetable  press,  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  and  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  slightly  beaten.  Shape  with  pas- 
try bag  and  tube  on  a  buttered  pan. 
brush  over  with  yolk  of  egg.  beaten, 
and  diluted  with  a  spoonful  of  milk  or 
water,  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Re- 
move with  a  spatula,  or  broad-bladed 


that  in  which  children  make  burr  bas- 
kets. 

Cucumber  Sauce  {for  Veal  or  Mutton). 
Peel  the  cucumbers,  cut  them  into 
halves,  remove  the  seeds,  and  cut  into 
small  pieces ;  cook  in  broth  to  cover, 
adding  for  each  pint  of  broth  a  tea- 
spoonful of  tarragon  vinegar,  a  piece 
of  bay  leaf,  and  a  slice  of  onion.  When 
the  cucumbers  are  tender,  pass  them 
through  a  sieve.  Brown  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  cook  in  it  until 
brown   three   tablespoonfuls   of    rlour ; 


THE  BOSTON  COOKIATG-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


89 


then  add  one  cup  of  cucumber  pulp 
and  broth.  When  boiling,  season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve 
at  once. 

Stuffed  Egg  Plant. 
Cut  an  egg  plant  in  halves,  length- 
wise ;  scoop  out  the  pulp,  leaving  a 
wall  one-fourth  an  inch  thick ;  chop 
the  pulp  with  a  slice  of  onion,  and 
saute'  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
about  ten   minutes   without    browning 


and  two  cups  of  granulated  sugar;  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  half  a 
cup  of  water,  and  a  piece  of  cinnamon 
bark  an  inch  long  ;  cook  to  the  soft- 
ball  stage  :  remove  the  cinnamon  and 
pour  hot  over  each  serving  of  vanilla 
ice-cream.  The  sauce  will  candy  upon 
the  cold  cream. 

Peaches  and  Cream.  Frozen. 
Pare  and  stone  two  quarts  of  peaches, 
press    through    a    vegetable    press    or 


STUFFED    EGG    PLANT. 


the  mixture  :  add  an  equal  bulk  of  fine 
bread  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
the  yolk  of  one  or  two  eggs,  according 
to  the  size  of  the  egg  plant,  and  enough 
strained  tomato  pulp,  or  white,  brown. 
or  tomato  sauce,  to  moisten  the  mix- 
ture. Turn  into  the  shells,  cover  with 
half  a  cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  stirred 
into  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and 
bake  about  an  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Serve  on  a  folded  napkin. 
Chocolate  Sauce  for  Vanilla  Ice-  Cream. 
Mix  two  ounces  of  chocolate,  grated. 


sieve,  add  the  juice  of  an  orange  and 
a  lemon,  stir  in  one  pint  of  sugar,  and 
turn  into  the  can  of  the  freezer.  When 
packed  and  ready  to  freeze,  turn  in  one 
pint  of  cream  and  freeze  as  ice-cream. 
Peaches,  Half  Frozen. 
Cut  very  ripe  peaches  into  halves 
and  remove  the  skins ;  sprinkle  well 
with  powdered  sugar  and  put  into  the 
can  of  a  freezer ;  pack  the  can  in  ice 
without  salt,  or  use  very  little  salt,  and 
let  stand  until  the  peaches  are  half 
frozen.     Arrange  them  on  a  glass  dish 


90 


THE   BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


in  the  form  of  a  wreath,  sprinkle  again 
with  sugar,  and  pile  thick  cream,  sweet- 
ened and  whipped,  in  the  centre  of  the 
dish. 

Peach- and- Almond  Salad. 
Pare  a  quart  of  ripe  yellow  peaches 
and  cut  in  slices  ;  slice  very  thin  half 
a  cup  of  blanched  almonds.  Mix  the 
peaches  and  nuts  with  two-thirds  a  cup 
of  mayonnaise,  to  which  one-third  a 
cup  of  whipped  cream  has  been  added. 
Serve    immediately   on  lettuce  leaves. 


powdered  sugar  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  extract,  and  spread  above 
the  peaches. 

Cocoafiut  Dulce  {Cuban  Recipe). 

Grate  the  meat  of  two  cocoanuts, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  let  stand 
until  cool.  Pour  off  this  water  and  add 
five  cups  of  water  and  six  cups  of  su- 
gar, with  a  grating  of  cinnamon  bark. 
Cook  until  sticky.  Store  in  glass  jars. 
Blackberry  Cake. 

Beat  three-fourths  a  cup  of  butter  to 


PEACH    GATEAU. 


Blanched  kernels  from  peach  stones 
may  be  used  instead  of  almonds. 
Peach  Gateau. 
Have  a  sponge  cake  baked  in  a 
round  tin  ;  cut  out  a  piece  from  the 
centre,  leaving  the  walls  an  inch  thick 
on  the  sides,  and  half  an  inch  thick  on 
the  bottom.  Pare  and  slice  about  two 
dozen  peaches,  mix  with  powered 
sugar,  and  with  them  fill  in  the  open 
space  in  the  cake.  Beat  one  pint  of 
cream    until    stiff,    add    half  a  cup  of 


a  cream ;  beat  in,  gradually,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  then  one  cup,  each,  of  chopped 
raisins  and  currants  and  blackberry 
jam ;  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
beaten,  and  three-fourths  a  cup  of 
milk,  alternately,  with  three  cups  of 
flour,  with  which  one  teaspoonful,  each, 
of  cloves  and  cinnamon  and  four  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder  have  been 
sifted  ;  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 
beaten  stiff,  then  beat  the  mixture 
thoroughly. — Ella  Laiurence. 


THE    BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


91 


Apple  Marmalade. 
Peel,  quarter,  and  core  apples  ; 
cook  in  a  new  saucepan  with  enough 
water  to  keep  from  burning.  When 
tender  pass  them  through  a  sieve,  and 
to  each  pound  of  pulp  and  juice  use 
three-fourths  a  pound  of  white  sugar 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  ;  cook  and 
stir  until  the  mixture  coats  the  spoon 
and  drops  from  it  in  beads.      Store  in 


down  with  strings  attached  to  the  necks 
of  the  bottles,  then  stand  them  up- 
right, slightly  apart,  on  a  trivet  in  a  deep 
saucepan,  and  fill  to  the  height  of  the 
bottles  with  cold  water.  Place  over  a 
moderate  fire  and  let  boil  from  ten  to 
twelve  minutes;  remove  from  fire  and 
let  cool  in  the  water.  When  thoroughly 
cold  cut  the  strings  and  lay  the  bottles 
down  flat,  and  in  a  very  cool  place. 


MACEDOINE    OF    FRUIT    WITH    SHERBET. 


fruit    jars    or    stone    pots,    previously 
heated. 

To  Bottle  Clear  Grape  Juice. 
Select  grapes  that  are  quite  ripe, 
pound  without  mashing  them,  so  as  to 
extricate  as  little  coloring  matter  as 
possible.  Filter  through  a  flannel  bag 
without  pressure,  and  repeat  the  proc- 
ess, until  the  juice  becomes  quite 
clear  ;  pour  into  small,  strong  bottles, 
and  cork  with  sound  corks,  driving 
them  in  with  a  mallet ;  tie  the   corks 


Macedoitie  of  Fruit  with  Sherbet. 
Peel  a  banana  and  cut  in  thin  slices; 
peel  an  orange  and  remove  the  sections, 
discarding  all  seeds  and  membranes; 
cut  two  or  three  thin  slices  of  pineapple 
in  dice ;  remove  the  seeds  and  skins 
from  a  cup  of  white  grapes  ;  pare  and 
slice  three  or  four  peaches  and  add  a  cup 
of  raspberries  ;  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar,  mix  thoroughly,  and  set  aside, 
buried  in  ice,  until  thoroughly  chilled. 
Boil  one  pint  of  water,  one  cup  and  a 


: 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZ1XE. 


half  of    -    g        ben  minutes;  add  half 

.aspoonful    of    gelatine,    softened 

in  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and 

n  into  the  can  of  the  freezer  :  when 

cold   add  one  pint  of  fruit  juice  and 

e    as    usual.       Serve    the    chilled 

fruit  in   g     ss    s    a  spoonful  of  sherbet 

the   top  of  each  glass.     The  juice 

of  any  one  fruit  may  be  used,  or,  better 

the  juice  of  several  kinds  of  fruit. 

Half  a  cup.  each,  of  pineapple,  orange, 

raspberry,  and  currant,  with  the  juice 


half  frozen.     Avoid  turning  the  crank 
so  as  to  crush  the  pulp. 

Watermelon  a  la  Steamer  Priscilla. 

Cut  a  section,  four  inches  thick,  from 
the  centre  of  a  watermelon.  Remove 
the  green  rind,  leaving  the  edible  por- 
tion, a  round  of  pink  melon  pulp ;  place 
upon  a  serving- dish  with  bits  of  ice 
upon  the  top.  In  serving,  cut  in  the 
same  manner  as  a  pie. 

Muskmelon. 

Cantaloupe   and   large   muskmelons 


MUSKMELONS. 


of  one  lemon,  will  be  found  especially 
agreeable. 

rvmg  Melons   \  Watermelons). 

Chill  by  standing  on  ice  several 
hours  before  serving.  Send  to  the 
table  cut  in  halves,  crosswise,  and  rest- 
ing on  grape  leaves.  With  a  table- 
spoon scoop  out  the  red  pulp  in  egg- 
shaped  pieces,  and  serve  on  chilled 
plates. 

Chinese  Method. 

Scoop  out  the  pulp  as  before,  remove 
the  seeds,  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar,  wine,  or  grated  ginger-root,  turn 
into  the  can  of  a  freezer,  and  pack  in 
and  salt.  After  standing  ten  min- 
utes turn  the  crank,  gently,  for  a  few 
moments  :  repeat  several  times.     Serve 


are  often  served  after  the  style  shown 
in  the  half-tone.  Score  a  small  circle 
near  the  top  of  the  chilled  melon,  then 
cut  out  alternate  sections  nearly  to  the 
base :  remove  the  seeds  and  fill  the 
centre  with  ice.  Serve  on  chilled 
plates,  plain,  or  with  powdered  sugar, 
or  with  salt  and  paprica :  or  divide  the 
chilled  melons  in  thick  cuts,  quarters 
or  eighths,  remove  the  seeds,  recon- 
struct the  melons  on  a  folded  napkin, 
and  surround  with  a  circle  of  ice  to 
hold  the  pieces  in  place,  and  to  keep 
them  cool.  Nutmegs  and  the  smaller 
melons  are  served  thoroughly  chilled, 
cut  in  halves  ;  the  centres,  from  which 
the  seeds  have  been  removed,  are  filled 
with  bits  of  ice.  or  not,  as  preferred. 


Queries  and  Answers, 


This  department  is  for  the  benefit  and  free  use  of  our  subscribers. 
Questions  relating  to  menus  and  recipes,  and  those  pertaining  to  culinary 
science  and  domestic  economics  in  general,  will  be  cheerfully  answered 
by  the  Editor.  Communications  must  reach  us  before  the  first  of  the  month  preceding  that  in 
which  the  answers  are  expected  to  appear.  Address  all  inquiries  to  Editor,  Boston  CoOKING- 
School  Magazine,  372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


Query  230.—  Mrs.  IV.  T.  C,  De- 
troit, Mich. :  "  How  to  cook  hashed 
brown  potatoes." 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes. 

Chop  six  cold  boiled  potatoes  very 
fine,  adding,  meanwhile,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper. 
Put  one-fourth  a  cup  of  salt-pork  fat, 
drippings,  or  butter  into  the  frying-pan. 
and  when  hot  put  in  the  potatoes,  mix- 
ing and  heating  thoroughly  ;  then  press 
on  to  one  side  of  the  pan  in  a  compact 
omelet  shape;  let  stand  until  well 
browned,  then  dip  off  the  surplus  fat 
and  turn  the  potatoes  on  to  a  serving- 
dish. 


Query  231.  —  Mrs.  C.  S.  F,  Balti- 
more, Md. :  "  Kindly  give  full  directions 
for  making  potato  roses  with  the  tube."' 
Potato  Roses. 

The  recipe  will  be  found  among 
those  given  in  current  issue,  as  also  a 
half-tone  showing  two  styles  of  roses. 
The  smaller  is  made  with  a  tube 
three-fourths  of  an  inch  in  diameter 
and  with  eight  points.  Hold  the  bag 
in  an  upright  position,  tube  pointing 
downward,  and  force  out  the  potato  ; 
at  the  proper  moment  press  the  tube 
gently  into  the  mixture,  and  raise 
it  quickly  to  break  the  flow.  To 
make  another  style  of  rose,  use  a  six- 
pointed  tube,  with  points  almost  meet- 


ing. Hold  the  bag  in  a  position  at 
right  angles  to  that  used  in  the  first 
case,  and  force  out  the  potato  in  a 
deeply  cleft  cord,  which  is  wound 
round  and  round  in  smaller  and 
smaller  circles.  To  finish  the  rose, 
hold  the  bag  in  an  upright  position, 
press  out  the  potato,  and  break  the 
Mow  as  before. 


Query  232. —  Mrs.  F.  E.  T.,  Van- 
couver, Wash.:  u  Recipe  for  pate-a-chou. 
Do  preparations  made  from  this  mix- 
ture require  a  quick  or  slow  oven  /  " 

Pate-a-chou,  or  Cream- Cake  Paste. 

Put  one  cup  of  water  and  half  a  cup 
(four  ounces)  of  butter  over  the  fire  ; 
when  boiling,  stir  in  one  cup  of  flour ; 
when  the  mixture  is  smooth  and  cleaves 
from  the  pan,  remove  from  the  fire, 
turn  into  a  bowl,  and  beat  in,  one  at 
a  time  and  very  thoroughly,  three  or 
four  eggs,  according  to  size.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven,  with  the  strongest 
heat  at  the  bottom.  Cream  cakes  of 
the  usual  size  should  bake  in  about 
twenty-five  minutes. 


Query  233.  —  Mrs.  A.  E.  K.,  Mont- 
gomery, Ala. :  "  How  to  color  cucumbers 
and  make  them  crisp  for  pickles ." 
How  to  Make  Pickles  Green  and  Crisp. 

Cucumber    pickles    are    sometimes 
colored  green  with  sulphate  of  copper, 


94 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


which  is  a  deadly  poison.  They  are 
colored  green,  also,  by  scalding  in  a 
brass  or  copper  kettle ;  but,  while 
pickles  so  colored  might  not  cause  ill- 
ness, no  one  with  any  regard  for  health 
should  venture  to  eat  them.  Cucum- 
bers scalded  in  a  porcelain  kettle, 
lined  and  covered  with  cabbage  leaves, 
are  also  said  to  assume  a  green  color. 
Scalding,  or  parboiling,  renders  cucum- 
bers soft  and  tender ;  by  limiting  this 
they  are  left  crisp.  A  piece  of  alum, 
the  size  of  a  small  pecan  nut,  dissolved 
in  the  vinegar  that  is  to  be  poured 
over  one  gallon  of  cucumbers,  will 
make  them  more  crisp ;  but  alum,  even 
in  small  quantities,  cannot  be  called 
wholesome. 


Query  234.  —  Mrs.  A.  B.  L.,  Osage, 
la.  :  "  Recipes  for  cooking  black  bass 
and  pickerel. v 

Black  Bass,  Broiled. 

Split  the  fish  lengthwise  to  the  back, 
but  do  not  separate  the  pieces ;  take 
out  the  backbone  ;  season  with  salt, 
baste  with  a  little  butter,  besprinkle 
with  soft  bread  crumbs,  and  broil  over 
a  slow  fire ;  broil  the  flesh  side  first, 
then,  when  nearly  cooked,  turn  and 
finish  the  cooking  on  the  skin  side. 
Serve  with  sweet  peppers  or  tomatoes 
stuffed  and  baked. 

Fried  Bass,  with  Bacon. 

Scale  and  wash  the  fish  thoroughly, 
and  cut  into  pieces ;  season  with  pep- 
per and  salt,  roll  in  flour,  then  in 
beaten  egg,  and  lastly  in  fine  bread 
crumbs.  Fry  to  a  golden  brown  in 
deep  fat,  smoking  hot.  Fry  in  a  sepa- 
rate pan,  or  cook  in  the  oven,  in  a 
double  broiler  over  a  dripping-pan,  a 
slice  of  bacon  for  each  piece  of  fish ; 
lay  the  bacon  on  the  fish,  and  garnish 
with  parsley.     Serve  with  mashed  po- 


tatoes   and    sliced    tomatoes,   or    with 
cucumbers. 

Black  Bass,  Baked. 

Scale,  clean,  and  wash,  leaving  the 
head  intact ;  stir  half  a  cup  of  butter, 
a  few  sprigs  of  sweet  herbs,  chopped 
fine,  and  nearly  a  cup  of  hot  water 
into  two  cups  of  fine  bread  crumbs  ; 
season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt, 
add  an  egg,  beaten,  and,  when  thor- 
oughly mixed,  fill  the  fish  with  the 
mixture  and  sew  up  the  flaps  of  the 
flesh.  Now  score  both  sides  of  the 
fish,  cutting  down  to  the  bone,  and  put 
a  thin  slice  of  salt  pork  into  the  inci- 
sions ;  bake  on  a  rack,  basting  often, 
at  first  with  butter  melted  in  hot  water, 
and  afterwards  with  the  drippings  in 
the  pan.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce, 
using  in  its  preparation  the  sauce  left 
in  the  pan  after  the  fish  is  cooked. 
Baked  Pickerel. 

Clean  and  wipe  thoroughly ;  lay  on 
a  fish-sheet  in  a  dripping-pan,  brush 
over  with  oil  or  butter,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  bake  slowly, 
basting  often  after  the  first  ten  minutes 
with  butter  melted  in  hot  water.  Heat 
a  cup  of  sweet  cream  over  hot  water 
with  two  tablespoonsfuls  of  butter  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  finely-chopped  pars- 
ley ;  add  the  gravy  from  the  dish,  and 
pour  over  the  fish  on  the  serving-dish. 


Query  235. —  Mrs.  W.  E.  D.,  Brain- 
tree,  Mass. :  ' '  Kindly  print  recipes  for 
use  of  anchovies.  Those  that  I  have  are 
put  up  i?i  tiny  barrels,  are  whole  and 
salted." 

Plain  Anchovies. 

Soak  the  anchovies  in  cold  water 
about  two  hours ;  dry  on  a  cloth,  split 
open  the  fish  at  the  back,  using  the 
hands,  or  a  silver-plated  knife.  Dis- 
carding the  bones,  arrange  the  halves 


THE  BOSTO.V  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


95 


on  a  dish,  and  surround  with  finely- 
chopped  white  of  egg  and  parsley. 
Serve  with  oil  and  lemon  juice. 
Stuffed  A?ichovies. 
Prepare  the  anchovies  as  above  ; 
pound  a  little  cooked  fish  of  any  kind 
at  hand  to  a  paste,  add  an  equal  bulk 
of  fine,  soft  bread  crumbs,  and  stir  in 
yolks  of  eggs  to  form  a  paste  ;  put  a 
little  of  this  mixture,  seasoned  to  taste, 
between  the  halves  of  a  fish  ;  egg  and 
bread-crumb,  or  dip  into  batter,  and 
fry  to  a  delicate  color  in  deep  fat. 
Garnish  with  parsley. 

Query  236.  —  Mrs.  A.  E.  K.,  Mont- 
gomery, Ala. :  "  Recipe  for  the  best  break- 
fast rolls,  and  how  to  shape  them." 
Breakfast  Rolls.     (Coffee  Cakes.) 

Scald  a  cup  of  milk ;  let  cool, 
add  a  yeastcake,  dissolved  in  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  scalded  milk,  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  batter.  When 
double  in  bulk  add  two-thirds  a  cup 
of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  half 
a  cup  of  unbeaten  eggs,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  flour  to  knead. 
Knead  until  very  elastic,  fifteen  min- 
utes, at  least.  When  double  in  bulk 
roll  out  into  a  rectangular  sheet  one- 
fourth  an  inch  thick,  spread  with  soft- 
ened butter,  and  fold  from  the  sides 
toward  the  centre  to  make  three  layers. 
Cut  strips  three-fourths  an  inch  wide, 
cover  with  an  inverted  pan,  and  when 
light,  twist  each  piece,  from  the  ends, 
in  opposite  directions,  then  bring  the 
ends  together  at  the  centre  of  the  strip. 
When  light  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  twenty  minutes;  the  temperature 
of  the  oven  must  be  lowered  consid- 
erably during  the  latter  part  of  the 
baking.  When  cool  brush  over  with 
confectioners'  sugar,  moistened  with 
enough  boiling  water  to  spread. 


Query  237.  —  Mrs.  T.  B.  W.,  St. 
Paul,  Minn.:  "  Menus  for  luncheon  for 
ten  ladies  ;  something  new." 

LUNCHEON    MENU. 

Muskmelon,  Salt  and  Paprica. 

Chicken  Soup,  with  Meringue. 

Stuffed  Pimentos,  Brown  Sauce. 
Chicken  Timbales,  Allemand  Sauce. 
Tomatoes  and  Cucumbers,  Shredded,  Cress, 
Whipped  Cream,  Mayonnaise  or 
French  Dressing. 
Peach  Gateau,  or  Sliced  Peaches  and  Pine- 
apple (half  frozen). 
Coffee. 


Anchovy  Canapes. 

Consomme,  with  Alphabet  Paste. 

Lettuce-and-Salmon  Salad  in  Casseroles. 

Undercut    of    Saddle   of    Mutton,    Broiled ; 

Garnish,  Glazed  Turnip  Cups,  Filled 

with  Peas. 

Baked  Bananas,  Currant-Jelly  Sauce. 

Celery,  Camembert  Cheese,  Wafers. 

Grape-Juice  Frappe,  or  Grape- Juice  Bombe 

Glace. 

Cafe  Noir. 


Query    238.  —  Mrs.    A.    f.    : 

" Recipes  for  peach,  grape,  cherry,  and 
plum  jellies,  made  with  gelatine  for  des- 
serts." 

Grape  Jelly. 

Scald  the  grapes  removed  from  the 
stems,  and  pass  through  a  bag  as  for 
jelly.  Soak  one  box  of  gelatine  in 
one  cup  of  cold  water ;  add  one  cup  of 
boiling  water  and  one  cup  of  sugar. 
When  dissolved,  strain,  with  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  into  three  cups  of  grape 
juice,  and  mould  as  usual. 
Cherry  Jelly. 

Soak  a  two-ounce  package  of  gela- 
tine in  one  cup  of  cold  water ;  add  one 
cup  of  boiling  water,  and  strain  into 
five  cups  of  cooked  cherries  and  juice, 
sweetened  to  taste ;  strain  in  also  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Put  a  few  of  the 
cherries  into  the  bottom  of  the  mould, 


96 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


standing  in  ice  water,  and  cover  with 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  liquid  jelly ; 
when  set  add  more  cherries  and  liquid, 
repeating  the  process  until  the  mould 
is  filled. 

Peach  and  Plum  Jelly. 
Prepare  as  cherry  jelly,  or  make  a 
lemon  jelly,  and  mould  in  it  the  cooked 
peaches,  or  plums.  The  peaches  may 
be  moulded  without  cooking.  In  cook- 
ing, add  to  the  syrup  the  blanched  ker- 
nels of  the  peach  stones. 


Query  239. — Same  subscriber :  u Rec- 
ipes for  macaroon  and  chocolate  souffle." 
Chocolate  Souffle. 

Melt  two  squares  of  chocolate,  with 
one-third  a  cup  of  sugar,  over  hot  water ; 
add  gradually  one  pint  of  milk.  When 
scalded,  stir  and  cook  in  it  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  beaten  and  mixed  with 
one-third  a  cup  of  sugar.  When  the 
mixture  coats  the  spoon,  add  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  vanilla  extract,  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  granulated  gelatine, 
softened  in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  water ; 
then  strain  over  the  whites  of  three 
eggs,  beaten  stiff.  After  folding  in 
the  eggs  thoroughly,  turn  the  mixture 
into  a  chilled  mould.  Serve,  when  cold 
and  set,  with  whipped  cream,  sweet- 
ened and  flavored. 

Macaroon  Souffle. 

Prepare  as  chocolate  souffle,  substi- 
tuting one  cup  and  a  half  of  macaroons, 
finely  crushed,  for  the  chocolate. 


Query  240. — P.  T.,  Charlottetown, 
P.  E.  I.  :  "Hoiu  to  skin  and  prepare 
rabbits  and  hares  for  use ;  also  a  recipe 
for  rabbit  pie." 

To  Prepare  Rabbits  and  Hares. 

Cut  around  the  legs  and  slit  the  skin 
the  entire  length  of  the  body  on  the 
under  side.      Remove  the   skin    from 


the  flesh  by  pulling  gently  with  the 
fingers,  and  pushing  against  the  inner 
surface  with  the  back  of  a  knife.  Fuller 
details  of  the  process  can  be  learned 
by  a  visit  to  a  market. 

Rabbit  Pie. 

Make  a  rough  puff  paste,  using  one 
pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  butter, 
drippings  or  other  shortening.  Roll 
and  fold  four  or  five  times ;  then  roll 
the  paste  to  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in 
thickness,  and  cut  out  pieces  to  line  the 
pan.  Cut  the  rabbit  into  pieces  at  the 
joints.  Put  the  head,  the  lower  joints 
of  the  legs,  and  some  bits  of  beef,  or 
veal,  over  the  fire  in  cold  water  to  cover; 
let  simmer,  and  season  as  for  any  stock ; 
cool,  and  remove  the  fat.  Put  a  layer 
of  bacon,  cut  in  small  slices,  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pie  dish,  and  above  these  a 
layer  of  the  joints  of  the  rabbit,  dusted 
with  "spiced  pepper;"  cover  with 
bacon,  then  add  a  layer  of  rabbit,  and 
so  continue  until  all  the  joints  are  used. 
Pour  in  the  gravy  previously  made  and 
cooled,  until  the  dish  is  nearly  full. 
Fit  on  a  cover  of  paste,  decorating  it 
with  bits  of  pastry,  and  make  an  open- 
ing in  the  centre ;  brush  over  with 
beaten  egg,  and  bake  about  one  hour 
and  a  quarter.  The  oven  should  be 
hot,  at  first,  to  bake  the  crust ;  then 
reduce  the  temperature,  to  cook  the 
rabbit  without  drying  the  pastry.  The 
spaces  between  the  joints  may  be  filled 
with  forcemeat,  such  as  is  ordinarily 
used  for  roast  turkey. 

Hare  Pie. 

Proceed  as  above,  adding  a  glass  of 
port,  a  tablespoonful  of  red  currant 
jelly,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  good  vine- 
gar to  the  sauce  ;  and  a  dash  of  ground 
mace  with  the  pepper  to  the  joints. 


Query  241.  —  Mrs.  F.   H.   M,  St. 


THE   BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL   MAGAZIXE. 


97 


John,  X.  B.:  "  Hon*   to   keep  the  centre 
of  shells  for  le?non  tarts  from  puffing  up." 
To  Keep  Pastry  from  Puffing  Up. 
Prick  the  paste  with  a  fork  in  sev- 
eral places  before  putting  into  the  oven. 


A  sponge  or  brush  may  be  used,  but 
the  better  way  is  to  use  the  hand,  dip- 
ping it  first  in  cold  water.  If  quickly 
done  there  will  be  no  danger  of  burning. 


Querv  242. — Same  subscriber :  ••  Rec- 
ipe for  chocolate  i?i   which   creams   arc 
dipped." 
Chocolate  Fondant  for  Dipping  Candies. 

Melt  a  cup  of  fondant  over  hot 
water,  adding  two  or  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  hot  water  ;  add  also  grated  choc- 
olate, to  secure  the  shade  desired,  and 
vanilla  extract  to  suit  the  taste ;  add 
more  hot  water  as  the  mixture  thickens 
by  standing ;  drop  the  creams,  which 
have  been  standing  about  twenty-four 
hours  to  harden,  into  the  fondant,  re- 
move with  a  wire  hook,  and  drop  on  to 
oiled  paper. 

Fondant. 

Boil  together  five  cups  of  coarse 
granulated  sugar,  a  quarter  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cream-of-tartar.  and  one  cup  and 
a  half  of  hot  water  until,  when  tried  in 
cold  water,  a  soft  ball  of  jelly-like  con- 
sistency may  be  formed.  Pour  on  to 
a  marble  slab,  or  a  large  platter,  cool 
slightly,  then  scrape  the  mixture  to 
one  part  of  the  marble,  and  work  with 
a  spatula,  or  a  butter  paddle,  until 
creamy.  Add  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
glycerine,  which  will  prevent  any  ten- 
dency to  granulation.  When  the  mix- 
ture is  creamy,  knead  with  the  hands 
until  smooth,  turn  into  a  bowl,  cover 
with  oiled  paper,  and  let  stand  twenty- 
four  hours  to  season. 

Boiling  the  sugar  is  the  most  critical 
part  of  the  process,  and  a  thermometer 
may  be  used,  if  preferred.  .  The  sugar 
is  likely  to  granulate  on  the  sides  of 
the  pan  during  boiling,  and  this  must 
be  washed   down  one  or  more  times. 


Query  243.  —  Mrs.  A.  L.  C :  "Rec- 
ipe for  a  cake,  in  which  both  whites  and 
yolks  of  eggs  are  used.9' 

Loaf  Cake. 

Cream  one  cup  of  butter ;  gradually 
beat  into  it  two  cups  of  sugar,  then  add 
one  cup  and  a  half  of  raisins,  seeded 
and  chopped,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of 
four  eggs.  Sift  together  three  cups 
of  flour,  two  teaspoonsfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  a  grated  nutmeg,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  and  a  half  of  cinnamon,  and 
add  to  the  first  mixture  alternately  with 
one  cup  of  cold  water  ;  add  the  whites 
of  four  eggs,  beaten  until  dry,  and  bake 
in  one  or  two  loaves. 

Citron  Cake. 

Beat  one  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream  ; 
add  gradually  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
fine  granulated  sugar,  then  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Sift  to- 
gether two  cups  of  flour  and  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  baking-powder ;  add  to 
the  cake  mixture  alternately  with  half 
a  cup  of  milk.  Add  the  well-beaten 
whites  of  four  eggs,  and  beat  the  mix- 
ture thoroughly.  Bake  in  two  tins, 
putting  sliced  citron  here  and  there 
into  the  dough. 


Query  244.  —  Mrs.  F.  L.  S..  Dav- 
e?ipbrt,  la.,  has  bought  three  sets  of 
butter-ball  paddles,  and  the  butter  sticks 
to  all  of  them  after  they  have  been  used 
three  or  four  times.  What  is  the  rea- 
son 1 
Why  Butter  Sticks  to  Butter-Hands. 

We  cannot  answer  this  question 
satisfactorily.  Much  depends,  how- 
ever, on  the  care  given  to  the  wooden 


98 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING -SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


paddles.  They  should  not  be  scoured, 
as  that  destroys  the  sharp  edges.  Be- 
fore using,  let  stand  in  hot  water  a 
short  time,  and  then  a  long  time  in 
cold  water,  changing  the  water.  A 
pair  that  were  used  successfully  two  or 
three  times  a  day,  as  needed,  were 
washed  but  infrequently.  They  were 
kept  on  the  top  of  the  butter  box  in  the 
refrigerator,  used,  and  then  returned  at 
once  to  their  place. 


Query  245. —  The  same  subscriber : 
"  Recipe  for  oyster  pie" 
Oyster  Pie. 

Prepare  the  crust  and  line  the  pie 
dish  as  in  answer  to  Query  240.  In 
your  locality,  and  at  this  season,  you 
will  use  canned  oysters.  Put  a  layer 
of  oysters  in  the  bottom  of  the  pie, 
season  with  spiced  pepper,  and  a  little 
salt ;  continue  in  this  manner  until  the 
dish  is  filled.  To  about  one  pint  of 
jellied  chicken  stock  add  the  liquor 
from  the  oysters,  a  blade  of  mace,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup 
(or,  better  still,  use  with  the  oysters  a 
cup  of  fresh  mushroom  caps,  peeled 
and  broken  into  pieces,  if  large,  and 
sauted  in  two  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter) ;  heat  to  the  boiling-point,  skim 
and  strain,  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper ;  then  pour  into  the  pie,  cover 
with  the  crust,  and  bake  about  half  an 
hour.  (See  directions  for  rabbit  pie.) 
Before  serving,  add  a  cup  of  stock,  or 
as  much  as  is  needed  to  fill  the  pie. 


Query  246. — Mrs.  W.  S.  S.,  West 
Stoughton,  Mass.  :  '•  May  different 
kinds  of  meat  be  used  together  in  making 
croquettes  ?  How  many  bread  crumbs 
are  ?ieeded '?  What  kinds  of  meat  give 
the  best  results,  and  how  should  the 
different  varieties  be  seasoned  ?  " 


About  Croquettes. 
Chicken  may  be  used  alone,  or  with 
veal,  sweetbreads,  tongue,  or  lamb. 
Season  each  cup  of  white  sauce,  used 
as  the  foundation  of  the  croquette, 
with  about  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice  and  fifteen  drops  of  onion  juice. 
A  grating  of  nutmeg,  a  few  grains  of 
mace,  or  celery  salt  may  also  be  used. 
In  making  croquettes  of  lamb,  cook  a 
slice  of  onion  in  the  butter  to  be  used 
for  the  sauce,  and  remove  it  before  the 
chopped  meat  is  added ;  add  also  a 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  capers.  The 
most  popular  croquettes,  probably,  are 
those  made  largely  of  chicken ;  the 
least  popular,  those  made  of  beef.  The 
bread  crumbs  may  be  either  of  dry  or 
stale  bread,  made  fine  and  sifted,  and 
no  more  should  be  used  than  is  re- 
quired with  an  egg,  diluted  with  two  or 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  to  form 
a  fat-proof  covering.  When  ready  to 
fry,  shake  off  all  loose  crumbs,  lest  they 
drop  into  the  fat  and  burn. 


Query  247.  — Mrs.  F.  A.  R.,  Pictou, 
Ont. :  "Recipe  for  cookies  made  of  entire 
wheat  flour." 

Entire-  Wheat  Cookies. 

Beat  one-  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream  ; 
then  beat  in  gradually  two  cups  of 
sugar ;  add  two  beaten  eggs  and  from 
one-fourth  a  cup  to  a  whole  cup  of  milk, 
as  desired,  alternately  with  about  four 
cups  of  entire-wheat  flour,  into  which 
four  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-pow- 
der have  been  sifted  ;  roll  into  a  sheet, 
cut  in  rounds  or  leaves,  arrange  in 
buttered  pans,  sprinkle  with  almonds, 
blanched  and  sliced,  and  granulated 
sugar,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  By 
using  a  whole  cup  of  milk  and  just 
flour  enough  to  keep  in  shape  while 
baking,  a  soft  cookie  is  obtained.    With 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


99 


one-fourth  a  cup  of  milk,  a  crisp  cookie 
results.  Take  but  a  small  amount 
of  dough  on  to  the  board,  at  one  time, 
and  test  by  baking  before  more  is  used. 


Query  248. —  Miss  F.  G.  R.,  Gar- 
diner, Me.:  "  How  to  drop  the  batter  for 
fruit  fritters  so  they  will  form  a  round 
ball  when  fried. ' ' 

How  to  Drop  Fritter  Batter. 

To  secure  round-shaped  fritters  is 
largely  a  matter  of  experience,  but 
there  are  some  little  details  that  may 
be  helpful :  Dip  the  spoon  in  the  hot 
fat,  take  up  an  even  spoonful  of  the 
batter,  and  with  another  spoon  scrape 
it  out  quickly  into  the  hot  fat,  letting 
it  all  drop,  at  once,  in  a  compact  mass. 


Query  249. —  C.  T.  Z.,  New  York 
City :  "Kindly  tell  me  something  about 
the  temperature  of  the  oven  required  for 
the  different  kinds  of  cake,  pies,  bread, 
biscuit,  and  meat.  Is  there  any  ther- 
mometer that  will  help  me  in  baking  and 
roasting,  in  both  ofivhich  1  have  trouble  ?  " 

Temperature  of  Oven  for  Cooking. 

Here  again,  even  with  a  thermome- 
ter, which  is  often  out  of  order,  expe- 
rience is  the  best  guide.  In  baking 
cake,  where  larger  experience  is  needed 
than  in  any  other  branch  of  cooking, 
much  depends  upon  the  ingredients 
composing  the  cake.  Cake  rich  in 
butter  and  yolks  of  eggs  will  burn  very 
quickly.  Layer  cakes  should  bake  in 
from  twelve  to  eighteen  minutes ;  plain 
cake  in  sheets,  in  thirty  to  forty  min- 
utes ;  loaf  cake,  in  forty  to  sixty  min- 
utes, and  upwards.  Divide  the  time 
into  quarters.  In  the  first  quarter,  the 
cake  should  show  no  change  except  in 
lightness ;  in  the  second  quarter,  it 
should  reach  its  full  height  and  brown 
in  spots  ;  in  the  third  quarter,  it  should 


become  well  browned ;  and  in  the  last 
quarter,  it  will  settle  a  little,  and,  in 
some  cases,  separate  from  the  sides  of 
the  pan.  During  the  first  and  second 
quarters  the  cake  may  be  gently  moved 
in  the  oven,  if  necessary ;  but  in  the 
third  quarter,  and  perhaps  in  the  last 
part  of  the  second,  when  the  cake  has 
fully  risen,  and  the  cell  walls  are  not 
fully  fixed,  a  jar  will  cause  the  walls  to 
settle.  Divide  the  time  for  baking 
biscuit  and  bread  in  the  same  man- 
ner, and  regulate  the  heat  accordingly. 
Meat  should  be  put  into  a  hot  oven, 
at  first,  to  sear  over  the  outside,  then 
add  a  little  water  with  drippings  and 
lower  the  temperature.  If  you  wish  to 
make  a  success  of  baking,  bake  often ; 
in  no  other  way  can  judgment  be 
matured. 


Query  250.—  Mrs.  M.  F.  S.,  Bed- 
ford, Mass. :  "  Recipe  for  diimplings  to 
serve  in  stews" 

Dumplings. 

Mix  and  sift  together  two  cups  of 
flour,  four  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
With  a  knife,  or  the  tips  of  the  fingers, 
cut  or  work  in  two  level  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  ;  then  add  about  three-fourths 
a  cup  of  milk,  water,  or  milk  and  water 
mixed.  Add  the  liquid  gradually  and 
mix  with  a  knife  ;  toss  on  to  a  floured 
board,  pat  and  roll  out  half  an  inch 
thick ;  cut  out  into  rounds,  place  close 
together  in  a  buttered  steamer  over  the 
stew,  or  use  a  little  more  liquid,  and 
drop  the  mixture  by  spoonfuls  on  to 
the  top  of  the  meat  and  vegetables. 
Steam  about  twelve  minutes  without 
raising  the  cover.  If  desired  the  liquid 
may  be  added  to  an  egg,  beaten  slightly, 
and  the  two  together  stirred  into  the 
dry  ingredients. 


IOO 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


Query  251.  —  Same  subscriber: 
"  Please  tell  me  just  how  to  make  fish- 
balls  :  mine  crumbled  in  the  basket,  al- 
though the  fat  'was  hot  enough  to  brown 
bread." 

Salt  Codfish  Balls. 

We  conclude  that  our  subscriber 
used  the  recipe  given  in  No.  4,  Vol.  III., 
which  we  have  used  successfully  for 
many  years ;  but,  while  fishballs  seem 
a  very  simple  thing  to  make,  this  is 
far  from  the  case.  Many  little  points 
must  be  strictly  followed,  if  they  are  to 
emerge  from  the  fat  a  golden  success. 
The  water  must  be  drained  from  the 
potatoes  and  fish  the  instant  these  are 
cooked ;  then  set  the  saucepan,  cov- 
ered with  a  cloth,  on  the  back  of  the 
range,  to  dry  out  the  moisture,  other- 
wise the  balls  will  not  hold  together 
when  put  in  the  fat.  Keep  the  mix- 
ture hot  while  preparing  it.  Reheat 
the  fat  after  each  frying.  Do  not  fry 
more  than  five  balls  at  a  time.  Avoid 
the  use  of  fat  that  has  been  long  used 
for  frying. 


Query  252. —  Mrs.  G.  N.B.,  Har- 
vard, Mass. :  "  Recipe  for  Par  he?'- Ho  use 
buns." 

Parker-House  Rolls. 

Scald  and  cool  two  cups  of  milk; 
add  one  yeastcake,  dissolved  in  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  scalded  and  cooled 
milk,  or  water,  and  about  three  cups 
of  flour.  Beat  thoroughly  and  set 
aside,  covered,  until  light;  then  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  flour  to  knead.  Knead  about 
fifteen  minutes ;  let  rise  until  double 
in  bulk,  then  shape  into  balls,  cover 
closely,  and  when  light  press  deeply 
the  handle  of  a  small  wooden  spoon 
across  the  centre  of  each  biscuit  with- 


out dividing  it;  brush  the  edge  of  one 
half  with  butter,  fold  and  press  to- 
gether lightly ;  place  in  buttered  pans, 
some  distance  apart,  cover,  and  bake 
when  light.  The  dough  may  also  be 
rolled  into  a  sheet  about  one -third 
an  inch  thick ;  then  cut  out  the  rolls 
with  a  round  biscuit  -  cutter,  crease 
through  the  centre,  brush  over  one-half 
of  each  roll  with  melted  butter,  fold, 
and  press  together.  Bake  in  twelve 
to  eighteen  minutes. 


Query  2 53. — Mrs.  J.  W.,  Cathlamet, 
Wash.  :  u  Recipe  for  a  jelly  roll." 
felly  Roll. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  until 
light;  then  gradually  beat  in  one  cup 
of  sugar  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
water ;  fold  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 
beaten  until  dry,  and,  lastly,  one  cup  of 
flour,  sifted  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder  and  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  or  orange  extract,  and  bake 
about  eighteen  minutes  in  a  dripping- 
pan  lined  with  buttered  paper.  Re- 
move from  the  tin,  while  hot,  on  to 
soft  paper  or  a  cloth  ;  trim  the  edges  of 
the  cake,  spread  the  bottom  with  jelly, 
and  roll.  Serve  as  cake,  or  with  a  hot 
sauce. 

Query  254. —  Same  subscriber:  ''Rec- 
ipe for  co  co  a  nut  layer  cake." 

Cocoanut  Layer  Cake. 

Cream  one-third  a  cup  of  butter  ;  add 
gradually  three-fourths  a  cup  of  sugar 
then  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beaten 
until  thick,  and  alternately  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  milk  and  one  cup  of  flour, 
sifted  with  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder ;  flavor  with  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  lemon  extract,  and,  lastly, 
beat  in  the  white  of  one   egg,  beaten 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


IOI 


until  dry.      Bake   in   two   layers,   and 
when  cold  put  together  with 

COCOANUT    FILLING. 

Grate  a  small  cocoanut,  cover  with 
boiling  water,  and  let  stand  until  cold ; 
drain  off  the  water,  and  beat  the  cocoa- 
nut  into  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten 
dry  and  mixed  with  one  cup  of  pow- 
dered sugar. 


Query    255. —  M.   L.    M.,   Albany, 
JV.  Y.:  "Recipe  for  candying  fruits" 
Candied  Fruits. 

As  fruit  preserved  by  this  process 
needs  to  be  dried  at  a  fixed  tempera- 
ture, and  as  the  last  step  in  the  proc- 
ess —  crystallization  —  requires  special 
apparatus,  it  is  rarely  attempted  at 
home;  and  recipes  that  can  be  fol- 
lowed by  amateurs  are  not  readily  pro- 
curable. 

recipe. 

Stone  the  fruit  —  cherries,  plums,  etc. 
—  and  weigh.  Take  half  the  weight  of 
sugar,  and,  with  one  cup  of  water  for 
each  half-pound  of  sugar,  cook  until 
the  syrup  drops  from  a  spoon  in  beads; 
add  the  fruit  without  the  juice,  and 
return  to  the  range  for  five  minutes 
without  boiling;  pour  all  into  a  bowl; 
let  stand  three  hours,  then  drain  the 
syrup  from  the  fruit,  add  sugar  equal 
to  one-fourth  the  first  weight  of  the 
fruit,  melt,  then  boil  until  it  drops  in 
beads ;    add  the   fruit,   let    it   boil   up 


once,  and  return  the  whole  to  the  bowl. 
After  four  hours  strain  off  the  syrup, 
add  one-fourth  the  first  weight  of  the 
fruit  in  sugar  (making,  in  all,  just  the 
weight  of  the  fruit  in  sugar),  and  cook 
once  more  until  it  drops  from  the  spoon 
in  beads ;  add  the  fruit,  and  boil  up 
once.  Set  the  pan  on  the  back  of  the 
range  five  minutes,  but  without  boil- 
ing ;  turn  into  glasses,  and  when  cold 
cover  with  paraffine,  or  with  papers 
dipped  in  alcohol. 

Fruit  thus  preserved  will  keep  indefi- 
nitely, but  when  it  is  to  be  candied  this 
is  only  the  first  step  in  the  process. 
Drain  the  fruit  from  the  syrup,  wash, 
and  dry  in  an  even  temperature.  When 
very  dry  arrange  in  a  single  layer,  side 
by  side,  in  a  candy  pan,  having  a  grate 
on  the  bottom.  Arrange  other  grates 
above,  filled  with  fruit,  having  the  last 
layer  slightly  below  the  edges  of  the 
candy  pan.  Cover  the  last  layer  of 
fruit  with  another  grate,  with  a  weight 
above  it,  to  keep  the  fruit  beneath  the 
syrup.  Cover  the  fruit  with  a  hot 
syrup  registering  340  by  the  saccha- 
rometer,  and  set  aside  in  a  hot  closet 
for  twelve  hours  ;  at  the  end  of  that  time 
drain  the  fruit  from  the  syrup,  lay  it 
on  dry  grates,  and  leave  till  very  dry. 
If  the  fruit  is  not  covered  with  a  suffi- 
ciently thick  layer  of  candy  at  the  end 
of  the  twelve  hours,  let  it  remain  in 
the  syrup  longer. 


*;- 


M  in 


j- 


mmm 


News  and  Notes. 
i 

fl1  Address  communications  to  Editor  of  the  Boston  Cooking-School 

Magazine,  372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


GRADUATING  EXERCISES  AT 
THE  BOSTON  COOKING  - 
SCHOOL  IN  JUNE. 

The  class  colors  were  green  and 
white.  The  office  and  lecture  room 
were  beautifully  adorned  with  large 
bowls  of  cut  flowers ;  the  kitchens 
were  draped  in  white  cheese  -  cloth, 
with  a  dado  of  tall  flags  and  cattails 
from  the  marsh  about  Lexington  ;  lau- 
rels, ferns,  smoke -trees,  with  daisies, 
formed  the  other  floral  decorations. 

The  literary  programme  follows  :  — 

Essay  :  "  The  Evolution  of  Cookery,"  Nonie 
W.  Jones. 

Demonstration  :  "  Bread,"  Lilla  Frich. 

Paper :  "  White  Sauce  and  Its  Mission," 
Katherine  A.  French. 

Demonstration :  "  Cheese  Fondu,"  Hattie 
M.  Drury. 

Demonstration :  "  The  Secret  of  Making 
Beef  Tea,"  Cora  F.  Gammon. 

Paper :  "  Doing  and  Knowing,"  Jessie 
Bloomfield. 

The  following  teachers  of  cookery 
attended  the  exercises,  and  were  pres- 
ent at  the  collation  and  reunion  next 
in  order.  This  renewal  of  acquain- 
tance was  one  of  the  pleasant  features 
of  the  occasion  :  — 

Sarah  T.  Rorer,  Philadelphia. 

Caroline  E.  Jordan,  Boston,  Mass. 

Anna  Barrows,  American  Kitchen  Mag- 
azine. 

Marie  B.  Senn,  Agricultural  College,  North 
Dakota. 


Mira  R.  Garrett,  Providence  Cooking- 
School. 

Alice  Bradley,  Y.  W.  C.  A.,  Montreal, 
Can. 

Emily  Tillinghast,  Worcester  Public 
Schools. 

Jennie  R.  Kenrick,  Prince  School,  Bos- 
ton. 

Stella  A.  Downing,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

Mary  A.  Hackett,  High  School,  Wor- 
cester, Mass. 

Ethel  Tyler,  Public  Schools,  Providence, 
R.  I. 

A  revised  course  of  instruction,  for 
the  practice  classes  in  cookery,  has  been 
arranged ;  it  will  be  put  into  operation 
at  the  opening  of  the  School,  in  Oc- 
tober next. 

NAMES  AND  ADDRESSES  OF  THE  CLASS 
OF    1899. 

Miss  Minnie  E.  Austin,  Norwalk,  Conn. 

Miss  L.  M.  Armstrong,  Hudson,  N.  Y. 

Miss  Jessie  Bloomfield,  New  York. 

Miss  A.  L.r  Brooks,  Brookline,  Mass. 

Miss  Martha  Bruce,  Roslindale,  Mass. 

Miss  Eliza  W.  Buckingham,  Lexington, 
Mass. 

Miss  Sophia  Cohen,  New  York. 

Miss  Rachel  Colwell,  Granville,  O. 

Miss  Gertrude  H.  Deehan,  Waterville, 
Me. 

Miss  Stella  Dodge,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

Miss  Ethelwyn  Doolittle,  Oneonta, 
N.  Y. 

Mrs.  Hattie- M.  Drury,  Avon,  Mass. 

Miss  Emma  L.  Filkins,  Boston,  Mass. 

Miss  Katherine  A.  French,  Oneonta, 
N.  Y. 

Miss  Lilla  Frich,  St.  Paul,  Minn. 

Mrs.  Cora  F.  Gammon,  Brockton,  Mass. 

Miss  Lizzie  M.  Hanson,  Cambridge,  Mass. 


ITS, 

BAKING 
POWDER 


Conpany 

BOSTON, MASS.U.SJV. 


BOSTON,    MASS. 
AFTER  MANY   YEARS'   EXPERIENCE,  I 
AM  CONVINCED  THAT  A  PURE  CREAM  OF 
TARTAR    BAKING  POWDER  IS  THE  BEST 
QUICK     LEAVENING    AGENT,     AND    IS    A 
WHOLESOME    FOOD    ADJUNCT. 

GUARANTEE  THAT  THIS   POWDER, 
'PREPARED    AFTER    MY    FORMULA,    CON- 
TAINS   ONLY     THE     HIGHEST    POSSIBLE 
GRADE  OF  CREAM  OF   TARTAR   AND    BI- 
CARBONATE OF  SODA,  WITH  THE  SMALL- 
EST    PERCENTAGE     OF    CORN     STARCH 
'NECESSARY  FOR  ITS  PERFECT  KEEPING. 

AS  LONG  AS  MY  SIGNATURE.APPEARS 
ON  THESE  LABELS,  HOUSEKEEPERS  MAY 
BE  SURE  THAT  THIS  FORMULA  WILL  BE 
FOLLOWED    IN    THE    MANUFACTURE    OF 
THIS    BAKING  POWDER. 


flHg/  '.BOSTON   COOK   BOOK" 


AND    MEMBfR   OF   MRS 
POWOEft  COMPANY. 


INCOLN'S   BAKINO 


None  genuine  wifhour  Mrs  Mary  J.Lincoln's  signature 


Send  2c.  stamp  for  Mrs.  Lincoln's  NEW  COOK  BOOK  of  Seasonable  Dishes  for  Every 

Month,  to 

MRS.  LINCOLN'S  BAKING  POWDER  CO., 

19  CHATHAM  STREET.  BOSTON,   MASS. 


1  Your 


Kitchen 


is  not  up  to  date  in  comfort  or 
economy,  unless  you  have  that 
wonder  of  a  kitchen  helper,  the 
Glenwood  Home  Grand,  the  latest 


GLENWOOD 

Weir  Stove  Company,  Taunton,  Mass. 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


0 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKTXG-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


Mi>s 
Miss 
Miss 
M  i-> 
Miss 

Mass. 
Miss 
Miss 

Mass. 
Miss 
Miss 

rington, 
Miss 
Miss 


Harriet  L.  Heald,  Milford,  X.  H. 
Mvrtie  A.  Hooper,  Castine,  Me. 
Sophie  B.  Hurd,  Oneida,  N.  V. 
Nome  W.  Jones,  Denver,  Col. 
Bertha  M.  Lincoln,  New  Bedford, 

Ella  F.  Marshall,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 
Leslie  L.   Morris,  West    Roxbury, 

Bertha  C.  Prentiss,  Pasadena,  Cal. 
Harriet   L.    Sheldon,  Great   Bar- 
Mass. 

Kate  L.  Smith,  Kalamazoo,  Mich. 

Ethel  M.  Willett,  Needham,  Mass. 


Mrs.  Hiller  will  give  courses  of  lectures 
in  both  Michigan  and  Wisconsin. 


Miss  Maria  Howard,  assistant  at 
the  Boston  Cooking-School,  is  taking 
charge  of  a  summer  school  in  cookery 
at  Waltham.  Mass. 


Mrs.  Celeste  Bradley,  '97,  principal 
of  the  cooking-school,  Hamilton,  Ont., 
after  a  successful  year  is  spending  her 
summer  vacation  in  Europe. 


Mrs.  Mira  Garrett,  '97,  founder  and 
principal  of  the  Providence  Cooking- 
School,  has  just  closed  a  most  success- 
ful year  of  work.  Among  other  classes 
outlined  for  the  coming  season  at  this 
school,  which  opens  October  10th,  we 
note  one  for  children,  Saturday  morn- 
ings, an  evening  class  for  cooks,  and 
a  class  for  young  men  and  women 
from  Brown  University  in  chafing-dish 
cookery. 


Miss  Kenrick,  '98,  of  the  Prince 
School,  Boston,  has  charge  of  a  sum- 
mer industrial  school  at  Nonantum. 


Elizabeth  O.  Hiller,  '98,  and  prin- 
cipal of  a  domestic  science  training- 
school,  Chicago,  111.,  recently  closed  a 
very  successful  year  of  school  work. 
She  is  preparing  to  begin  her  work  in 
the  fall  in  larger  and  better-equipped 
quarters.     During  the  summer  months 


Mrs.  Annie  P.  Doughty  recently 
delivered  a  course  of  lectures  at  the 
Y.  M.  C.  A.,  Burlington,  Vt.  A  report 
says  her  second  lecture  was  on  a  dol- 
lar dinner  for  six,  and  those  present 
found  it  most  interesting,  as  it  was  a 
practical  demonstration  of  the  fact  that 
simple  and  cheap  materials,  with  the  ex- 
ercise of  thought  and  taste,  may  furnish 
a  repast  ample  in  quantity,  delicious 
to  the  taste,  and  attractive  from  its  ex- 
treme daintiness.  It  was  also  useful, 
in  that  the  nourishing  qualities  of  the 
various  foods  were  carefully  studied, 
and  the  housekeeper  was  again  re- 
minded that  only  by  a  proper  combina- 
tion of  the  constituents  of  foods  is  life 
best  sustained,  and  that  a  dinner  must 
not  only  be  palatable  and  attractive  to 
the  eye,  but  it  must,  above  all,  combine 
all  the  elements  of  nutrition. 

"  Salads,  Sandwiches,  and  Chafing- 
dish  Dainties,"  by  Janet  McKenzie 
Hill,  will  be  issued  from  the  press  on 
the  20th  of  September.  The  book  is 
printed  and  bound  by  Mills  and  Knight 
Company,  printers  to  the  Boston  Cook- 
ing-School Magazine.  It  is  published 
by  Little,  Brown,  &  Co.,  the  well-known 
publishers  of  this  city. 

The  work  comprises  three  parts  and 
two  hundred  and  fifty-six  pages.  It 
contains  thirty-two  half-tone  illustra- 
tions of  original  dishes  prepared  by 
the  author.  The  presswork  and  illus- 
trations have  been  executed  in  the  best 
manner,  and  every  effort  has  been 
made  to  produce  an  attractive  and  dur- 
able volume,  as  well  as  a  most  practical 
presentation  of  the  subjects  of  which  it 
treats.  The  publishers'  price  of  the 
book  is  $1.50. 


|  NO  COMPLAINTS. 
|  A  COAL  SAVER. 


A  PERFECT  BAKER 

Reduces  cooking  to  the  science  of  absolute  ease  and 
uniform  goodness.  The  famous  MAGEE  RANGES 
have  stood  at  the  front  for  over  half  a  century,  and 
with  our  many  improvements  and  patented  labor-sav- 
ing features,  found  only  in  the  "Magee,"  make  it 
the  best  and  most  popular  range  known. 

Comparison  invited  with  all  others.    Be  sure  and 
see  Our  Latest  before  buying. 

THE  BEST  ARE  THE  CHEAPEST. 

Pamphlet  Free  by  Mail  upon  Application. 
SOLD  BY  LEADING  DEALERS. 

MAGEE     FURNACE     CO., 

32  to  38  UNION  ST.,  BOSTON. 


»frfrfrfrfr^*W*fc^fr«M«M«W«W«M«W<M* 


DR.  HUBBARD'S 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  meniion 


VEGETABLE 

111  Trade  Mark. 

11     GERMICIDE. 

The  [Standard    and    Original. 


This  compound  has  proved  the  most  effective  agent 
known  to  science  for  the  cure  of  DIPHTHERIA,  Bron- 
chitis, Tonsilitis,  Pneumonia,  Asthma,  Croup.Whoop- 
ing  Cough,  Catarrh,  Hay  Fever.  For  Cuts,  Wounds, 
Sores,  Ulcers,  Sprains,  Burns,  Scalds,  Bites  of  Insects, 
etc.,  for  Scarlet  Fever,  Measles,  and  all  contagious 
diseases,  it  has  no  equal.  One  trial  will  convince  the 
most  skeptical.    Indispensable  in  every  household. 

for  Sale  by  all  Druggists,  or 

J.   HUBBARD  &  CO. 

12  G  FRANKLIN  AVE.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 

The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine- 


io4 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL   MAGAZIXE. 


BOOK  REVIEWS. 


PRINCIPLES  OF  PRACTICAL  COOK- 
ERY. By  E.  E.  Mann.  Cloth.  Price, 
50  cents.  New  York  :  Longmans. 
Green  &  Co. 

This  is  not  a  cookery  book  or  book 
of  recipes ;  it  is  a  simple  textbook, 
dealing  solely  with  principles  and  gen- 
eral rules.  In  other  words,  it  treats, 
in  a  most  clear  and  practical  manner, 
of  the  proper  treatment  of  both  the 
kitchen  and  the  larder.  The  author 
holds  that,  as  cookery  comes  to  be  re- 
garded more  and  more  on  the  same 
basis  as  the  other  sciences  and  arts, 
much  of  the  weary  struggle  with  items 
and  details,  to  which  women  are  prone, 
will  be  given  up,  and  a  more  thorough 
study  of  the  composition  of  foods,  of 
the  effects  of  the  various  kinds  and 
degrees  of  heat,  etc.,  will  enable  them 
to  arrive  at  more  satisfactory  results 
with  less  outlay  of  money,  time,  and 
temper.  As  all  are  aware,  in  actual 
practice,  it  is  often  necessary  to  do  a 
large  amount  of  reading  to  reach  a 
practical  point.  To  meet  this  difficulty 
this  little  manual  of  principles  is  ad- 
mirably fitted.  It  opens  a  way  to 
answer  many  an  inquiry,  and  teach 
the  young  housekeeper  and  cook  just 
how  to  do  in  the  care  of  kitchen  and 
storeroom,  as  well  as  in  many  a  culi- 
nary process. 

A  REFERENCE  BOOK  OP  PRAC- 
TICAL   PHOTOGRAPHY.      By    F. 

Dundas  Todd.  Paper.  Price,  50 
cents.  Chicago:  The  Photo-Beacon 
Company. 

This  is  Part  II.  of  an  excellent  book. 
It  forms  one  of  a  series,  by  the  same 
author,  of  practical  manuals  for  ama- 
teur photographers.  One  who  is  really 
interested  in  the  use  of  a  camera  wishes 
to  make  good  pictures.  His  constant 
aim  is  to  avoid  errors,  eliminate  chance, 
and  attain  to  something  like  sure  and 


satisfactory  results.  And  this  can  be 
done  only  by  study  and  practice.  The 
mechanical  part,  at  least,  of  photog- 
raphy is  not  a  matter  of  luck,  rather, 
of  scientific  certainty.  Just  here  a 
reference  book  becomes  of  great  value 
and  daily  usefulness.  As  one  instance, 
every  platemaker  gives  his  formula  for 
each  developer.  Here  one  can  com- 
pare all  these  formulas,  note  where 
they  are  alike,  in  what  respects  they 
differ,  and  hence  infer  which  is  most 
nearly  suitable  to  his  own  special 
wants.  Here,  too.  one  can  learn  just 
how  to  dissolve  chemicals,  prepare 
solutions,  handle  plates,  and  practise 
countless  strange  devices  that  are 
known  only  to  the  professional  photog- 
rapher. 

THE   YELLOW    WALL   PAPER.     By 

Charlotte  Perkins  Stetson.  Price. 
50  cents.  Boston:  Small,  Mavnard, 
&  Co. 

Apparently  most  stories  are  written 
with  an  object  in  view, —  either  to  please 
or  instruct,  to  condemn  wrong,  or  in- 
culcate truth.  In  writing  this  story  no 
preface  or  introduction  gives  us  hint 
of  the  author's  motive.  Like  all  her 
productions,  it  is  enigmatical  and  psy- 
chological in  character.  It  might  be 
called  a  strange  study  of  the  influence 
and  power  of  physical  environment. 
The  story  could  not  have  been  written 
solely  to  please:  for  it  is  pathetic, 
almost  morbid,  in  tone.  However,  it 
cannot  fail  to  interest  and  enlighten, 
perhaps,    many    readers. 

Headache 

Horsford's  Acid  Phosphate 

prevents  and  alleviates  Headache 
arising  from  a  disordered  stomach 
or  that  of  nervous  origin. 

Taken  before  retiring,  quiets  the  nerves 
and  induces  refreshing  sleep, 

JFor  sale   l».r   ]>riurgi»t<». 


IV hen  you  write  A dvertiseis, please  mention  The  Boston"  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


(J^^'%/%^^%^^^^^^^'%^%^^'%^%^^^%^'%^^^%^^^^^^%^%^® 


fee 
Cream, 

10  Cents  Quart. 


Delicious    Ice    Cream    or    Custard 
can   be  prepared    in    a  few  minutes 
by  using:  Burnham's  Cream  Custard, 
—  only  milk  to  be  added. 
A  JO-cent  package  makes  two  quarts  of  Ice  Cream. 

If  not  yet  in  the  stock  of  your  grocer,  send  us  his  name  and  10  cents  and  we  will  send 
you  a  package.  Every  package  contains  instructions  how  to  obtain,  FREE,  our  beautiful 
souvenir  of  the  Spanish- American  War,  and  recipes  for  delicious  custards. 

E.  S.  BURNHAM,  53  Gansevoort  Street,  N.  Y. 


eK- 


4 


ii— Hub 
Line  of 
Ranges 

Speak  for  Themselves 
in  Thousands  of  Homes. 

The  Hub  Ranges  are  used  in  the 
New    York,    Boston,    Providence, 
Hartford,    Worcester,    and    many 
-  other  Cooking-Schools. 

iS    STRONGER    ENDORSEMENT    POSSIBLE-? 

Smith  &  Anthony  CO..  makers  hub  ranges  and  heaters, 

48-54  UNION  STREET,  BOSTON. 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Household  Hints, 


Iron  rust  can  be   removed   by   salt 
mixed  with  a  little  lemon  juice. 


To  keep  pots  and  pans  bright,  dip 
each  article  in  strong  lye  or  soft  soap, 
then  scour  with  common  sifted  coal 
ashes. 

Screens  should  be  placed  early  in 
the  season  at  every  door  and  window. 
It  is  a  great  mistake  to  neglect  this 
important  matter. 


A  combination  of  camphor  gum  and 
tar  camphor  is  volatile,  and  a  small 
lump  on  the  floor  and  another  on  the 
shelf  of  a  cupboard  is  purifying,  and 
eradicates  moths. 


To  have  the  sink  sweet  and  clean, 
rub  with  common  lamp  oil  twice  a 
week.  This  will  remove  all  grease  and 
prevent  rusting.  After  using  the  oil 
wash  well  with  hot,  soapy  water. 


The  reason  that  a  cake  sometimes 
"falls"  on  taking  it  out  of  the  oven  is 
that  it  was  not  done.  To  ascertain 
when  the  cake  is  done,  press  the  cake 
gently  with  the  finger.  If  it  is  firm  to 
the  touch  and  leaves  no  dent,  it  is  done. 
Or  the  surer  way  is  to  hold  the  pan 
close  to  the  ear ;  if  there  is  no  noise 
inside,  the  cake  is  done. 


The  colder  eggs  are,  the  more 
quickly  they  will  come  to  a  froth. 

For  regular  five-o'clock  tea,  allow  one 
teaspoonful  of  tea  for  each  cup  of  boil- 
ing water.  Steep  one  to  five  minutes, 
and  serve  with  an  oxheart  cherry  or  a 
slice  of  lemon  in  each  cup. 

Very  delicate  sweet-butter  sandwiches 
are  delicious  for  an  afternoon  tea. 
The  sweet  butter  placed  in  a  damp 
napkin  and  buried  in  a  bed  of  clover 
blossoms  will  acquire  a  delicate  clover 
flavor,  and,  when  spread  delicately  on 
some  dry,  crisp  biscuit,  is  delicious. 


During  the  time  the  house  is  closed 
for  the  summer,  the  silver  may  be  kept 
bright  if  placed  in  an  air-tight  case  in 
which  there  is  a  good-sized  piece  of 
camphor  (about  the  size  of  a  hickory 
nut). 

Wash  delicate  linens  entirely  with 
the  hands,  using  no  washboard,  and 
boil  and  wash  by  themselves.  Rinse 
all  white  linens  and  cottons  in  two  or 
more  cold  waters,  using  a  little  blue  in 
the  last  water. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


CENTS 
A  YEAR 


1899 


10 


CENTS 
A  COPY 


TFTE 

OSTON 


OOKJN 

cnooL 

AGAZINE 


nfliiiMAtmfflM,idimnn— w 


T'TyNTENTg 


uoocxxxxxaxxxcxxxcoooo 


Vol.  IV. 


OCTOBER,  NOVEMBER. 


No.  a. 


In  German  Markets,  Helen  Hascltine. 

A   Dish'  of  Chestnuts.  Eleanor  M.  Lucas, 

Diet  in  Typhoid  Fever.  Lucy  Barney  Hall.  JLD. 

The  Business  Woman  in  the   Home. 

Martha  L.  Roberts. 

One  of  Us.  Kate  M.  Post. 

The  Public  Kitchen  and  Its  Meaning.    Helen  Campbell 

English   Fruit  Salads.  G.  Hamlin. 

Dinner  at  the  Boston  Cooking-School: 

Eliza  W.  Bu  eking  ha  m . 

Editorial  Department:  Janet  McKenzie  Hill 

After-Breakfast  Chat — Economical  and  Thanksgiving  Met 
In  Reference  .  to  Menus  —  Recipes  (Illustrated)  —  QueriFs 
Answers  —  News  and  Notes. 

{For  complete  index  see  second  and  fourth  pages.) 

Published  Blmonthjy  by 

THE    BOSTON    COOKING -SCHOOL    MAGAZINE 

Publication  Office:  22  School  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 


rs99,  by  "the  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


Entered  at  Boston  Post  Office  as  seconcl-ciaat  inatte, 


CAMERAS 


AND 


KODAKS, 


All  the  best  makes, 
from  $.'5. 50  up  to  I 
$150.00,    ii 

eluding 

lenses. 


pbotofltapbtc  Supplies 

OF  EVERY   DESCRIPTION. 

LARGEST  STORE  OF  THE  KIND  EN   THE  EAST 

BEN  J.  FRENCH  &  CO. 

319  Washington  Street  (»)  BOSTON. 


ARTISTIC    FURNITURE. 


m 
m 

m 

to 

to 

« 


m 
nk 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
* 

MU 

m 
m 
w 

w 
w 


Excellent  workmanship,  fine  upholstery, 
pleasing  effects;  will  give  new  lustre  and 
beauty  to  the  home.'  Be  sure  and  see  our  new 
parlor  suits  and  odd  parlor  pieces.  We  have 
a  great  variety  of  these  goods. 
PARLOR  SUltS,  in  Silk  Broeatelle, 

from  #45  to  S125 

ODD  PARLOR  PIECES,    -    -  -    «2.75  to  S35 
Parlor   Suits    in  Silk  tapestry  and 

brocades  upholstered  to  order  at  the 

lowest  prices. 

A  greart  variety  of  Solid  Oak  Dining 

Extension  Tables,         -        -       -        #4  to  $25 

Dining  chairs,    -     -      -      ooe.  to 

SOLID     OAK     SIDE  HOARDS,  *12  to  850 

Every  article  warranted  or  no  sale. 
Send  for  our  new  illustrated  catalogue  an<| 

price  list. 


11 


to 

to 

+  ■ 


MU 

MU 

MU 
MU 
MU 


A.  McARTHUR  CO., 

HOUSB-FURNISHBRS,  16-26    CORNHILL, 

TWO    DOORS     PROM    WASHINGTON    ST.,     BOSTON. 


Whenyu  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magajink. 


^v 


THE   STORY   OF   VANILLA. 


BY    ROBERT    MANTON. 


CHAPTER   VI. 


The  State  of  Vera  Cruz,  in  Mexico,  is  the  only 
place  in  the  world  where  the  vanilla  bean 
reaches  perfection.  ♦  There  is  no  other  spot 
known  to  man  where  both  the  soil  and  the 
climate  is  adapted  to  its  peculiar  character- 
istics. Nature  has  ordained  that  in  the  State  of 
Vera  Cruz  alone  shall  the  vanilla  bean  flourish, 
and  attain  that  supreme  excellence  which 
makes  it  coveted  the  world  over.  Every  human 
effort  to  successfully  transplant  and  cultivate  it 
elsewhere  has  been  thwarted  by  nature. 

The  oldest  records  tell  us  that  in  the  Valley 
of  Mazantla,  in  the  State  of  Vera  Cruz,  the 
vanilla  plant  had  its  origin.  Humboldt  calls 
this  valley  one  of  the  seven  wonders  of  the 
world.  Here  it  was  that  Montezuma  secured 
his  vanilla  before  Cortez  came  over  in  his  ships 
to  despoil  the  New  World.  The  old  Emperor 
was  wont  to  flavor  his  chocolate  with  the  fra- 
grant bean,  and  also  to  sip  it  as  a  beverage 
itself,  for  the  pure  Mexican  vanilla  makes  an 
excellent  tonic.  It  is  healthful,  bracing  and 
invigorating. 

Mazantla  is  probably  the  gigantic  crater  of  a 
volcano,  sunk  in  the  hills.  The  visitor  is  obliged 
to  come  down  the  face  of  the  cliffs  about  6,000 
feet  to  get  into  the  valley,  where  the  streams 
are  all  of  warm  water.  Ferns  and  other  vege- 
tation grow  to  gigantic  size.  The  writer  per- 
sonally cut  down  a  fern  over  75  feet  in  height 
(see  illustration).  Because  of  the  rapid  growth 
of  everything,  it  is  next  to  impossible  to  push 
through  the  vegetation,  and  travel  must  be 
by  water  in  the  bed  of  the  streams.  In  this 
fertile  spot  grows  the  largest  coffee  tree  of 
which  there  is  any  record,  producing  from  40  to 
50  pounds  in  a  single  year.  The  average  yield 
elsewhere  is  never  over  five  pounds,  the  yield 
generally  being  from  i^  to  2  pounds. 


On  the  mountain  sides  that  rise  up  from  this 
marvellously  fertile  valley  are  grown  the  original 
vanilla  of  the  world.  The  soil  is  practically  vol- 
canic, and  the  plant  flourishes  particularly  well 
at  an  altitude  of  2500  to  3500  feet  above  the 
level  of  the  sea.  The  climate,  the  atmosphere 
and  the  soil  all  combine  to  make  the  Valley  of 
Mazantla  the  garden  spot  of  the  earth  for  the 
growth  of  the  vanilla  plant. 

The  mountain  town  of  Papantla,  to  the  south 
of  Mazantla,  monopolizes  most  of  the  vanilla 
trade.  In  this  neighborhood  it  is  cultivated  to 
a  greater  extent,  and  here  is  produced  the  finest 
and  best  of  all  the  Mexican  vanilla  beans.  The 
peculiar  natural  conditions  in  Papantla  are  re- 
sponsible for  the  fact  that  vanilla  beans  grown 
here  fetch  a  higher  price  and  are  considered 
even  better  than  Mazantla  beans  themselves. 

There  is  no  article  sold  in  America  where 
there  is  so  much  deceiving,  so  much  cheating, 
and  of  which  the  people  know  so  little,  as 
vanilla  extract.  It  is  the  purpose  of  this  series 
of  articles  to  enlighten  the  readers  of  this  Maga- 
zine upon  the  subject,  and  to  point  out  the 
dangers  of  using  any  of  the  thousand  and  one 
adulterations  sold  as  extracts.  In  the  next 
issue,  the  vanilla  plant,  which  is  an  orchid  with 
strange  peculiarities,  will  be  described. 

The  extract  made  by  the  Joseph  Burnett  Co., 
Boston,  Mass.,  is  invariably  free  from  any  adul- 
teration whatever.  There  is  only  one  quality, 
and  that  is  the  very  best.  It  is  the  best  because 
nothing  is  used  but  the  finest  quality  of  Mexican 
vanilla.  Burnett's  Extract  is  always  selected 
as  a  comparison  by  which  other  extracts  are 
measured.  In  trade  circles  the  remark  is  con- 
stantly heard  that  some  brand  is  "about  as 
good  as  Burnett's"  or  "almost  as 
good  as  Burnett's,"  but  the  claim  is 
never  made  that  it  is  better.  Such 
a  remark  would  be  as  ridiculous  as 
to  say  that  some  of  the  baser 
metals  were  better  than  gold. 

[  To  be  continued.] 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


In  Preserving 

Don't  Preserve 

Poison. 


Extract  from  a?i  editorial  that  appeared  in  the  Brookly7L 
Eagle,  Sept.  26,  1897. 
"  The  poisonous  substances  in  the  enamels  are  said  to  be  " 
arsenic,  antimony,  and  lead.  Neither  of  these  is  nutri-  " 
tious,  and  food  is  better  without  them.  It  may  be  that" 
some  of  the  slight  and  unaccountable  illnesses  that  have  " 
come  to  the  people,  especially  after  eating  sour  fruits  " 
and  vegetables  boiled  or  stewed  in  these  dishes  —  toma-  " 
toes,  rhubarb,  apples,  strawberries,  compounds  flavored  " 
with  lemon  —  have  their  origin  in  the  disintegration  of  " 
this  enamel  and  in  the  absorption  by  the  food  of  the" 
arsenic  or  whatsoever  else  is  employed  in  it.  Even " 
where  the  enamel  is  commonly  applied  with  skill  and" 
understanding,  it  may  happen  that  a  workman  may  spill  " 
an  undue  quantity  of  poison  into  the  mixture,  or  that" 
the  fusing  may  be  imperfect,  and  it  does  not  take  much  " 
arsenic  or  lead  to  cause  illness,  while  a  succession  of  " 
poisonings  may  result  in  lifelong  stomach  trouble." 


L*&G* 


Agate  Nickel  Steel 
Ware  is  DOUBLE 
COATED,  and  guaranteed  absolutely 
free  from  any  POISON  in  ANY 
FORM. 


Others  may  claim  purity  ; 
we  alone  substantiate  it  by 
chemists'  certificate  attach- 
ed to  each  article.  Look  for 
this  L.  &  Q.  trade  mark  (burnt 
in  the  enamel),  if  you 
want  the  kind  that  is 


Send  for  special  pamphlet  of  vital 
importance  to  every  housewife. 

LALANCE  &  GROSJEAN  MFG.  CO. 

New  York.     Boston.     Chicago. 


SAFE. 


COMPLETE    INDEX. 


A  Dish  of  Chestnuts 

After-Breakfast  Chat 

Business  Woman,  The,  in  the  Home 

Diet  in  Typhoid  Fever 

Dinner  at  the  Boston  Cooking-School    . 

English  Fruit  Salads 

Editorials 

In  German  Markets 

In  Reference  to  Economical  Menus   .     . 
In  Reference  to  Thanksgiving  Menus     . 

Menus,  Economical 

Menus,  Thanksgiving 

News  and  Notes       

One  of  Us        

Public  Kitchen,  The,  and  Its  Meaning    . 
Queries  and  Answers:  — 

Beauregard  Eggs 

Book  on  Laying  the  Table     .... 

Boiled-Cider  Apple  Sauce       .     .     .     . 

Celery  Croquettes 

Chicken  Croquettes 

Chicken  a  la  Bechamel 

Chocolate  Filling  without  Eggs       .     . 

Crullers 

Double  Cream 

Fig-and-Nut  Filling 

First  issue  of  The  Boston  Cooking- 
School  Magazine 

French  Bread 

Frozen  Apricots 

Gluten  Bread 

Hickory-Nut  Cookies 

How  to  Serve  Tongue  in  Aspic       .     . 

In  Reference  to  Thermometers  .     .     . 

Lemon-and-Almond  Filling    .... 

Marguerite  Luncheon,  Menu  for     .     . 

Macedoine  of  Fruit  and  Nuts     .     .     . 

Menu  of  "  Ye  Olden  Time  "  .     .     .     . 

Menus,  25c.  a  plate  with  profit    .     .     . 

Mincemeat 

Mock  Bisque  Soup 

Moulding  of  Plum-Pudding  Gk;ce  .     . 

Oyster  Chowder 

Oyster-and-Celery  Salad 

Oyster  Souffle 

(Continued  over.) 


PAGE 
107 

127 

TI3 
1 1 1 
121 

120 
124 

105 
130 

J34 

129 

133 
154 
116 
117 

145 
153 
i53 
150 
148 

152 
149 

145 
149 

145 

150 
152 
i47 
150 
151 
151 
153 
145 
145 
i47 
M7 
147 
153 
149 

149 

150 
152 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Fashion  a  small  well-shaped  pumpkin  into  the  form 
of  a  basket,  with  a  handle  upon  each  side.  Scoop 
out  the  inner  contents  and  fill   with   autumn    fruit. 


s 


3 

Li.  ~" 

O  «J 


fl     t. 


■g   £   a 


THE 


Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


Vol.  IV. 


OCTOBER  AND  NOVEMBER,   1899. 


Xo.  3. 


IN  GERMAN  MARKETS, 
By  Helen  Haseltine. 


To  me,  a  housewife  travelling  through 
Germany,  the  public  markets,  which 
are  so  much  a  feature  of  German  vil- 
lage life,  were  full  of  interest.  The 
typical  German  market  one  does  not 
see  in  any  of  the  larger  cities  nowa- 
days, save,  perhaps,  in  Dresden  ;  but  in 
the  small  towns  the  old-time  customs 
of  the  public  place  still  prevail,  thanks 
to  the  stolid  indifference  to  the  ad- 
vance of  civilization  and  the  shop  of 
the  German  peasant  and  burgher.  And 
so  the  market,  with  its  picturesque  set- 
ting, and  its  mantle  of  dignity  as  the 
place  most  necessary  to  the  life  and 
welfare  of  the  town,  prevails  in  all  its 
quaint  pomp ;  and  one  finds  in  it  many 
traces  of  bygone  days. 

In  the  more  cosmopolitan  Berlin  the 
marketplace  still  holds  its  own  after 
a  fashion.  Saturday  is  the  great  day 
of  the  market,  when  it  is  gay  with  the 
booths  and  wares  displayed.  A  com- 
promise between  yesterday  and  to-day 
is  the  portable  booth.  It  is  a  most 
ingenious  institution.  The  farmer 
drives  to  his  special  place,  and  by  a 
turn  of  a  lever  converts  his  wagon  into 
a.    very    creditable    shop.       The    more 


primitive  farmers  make  the  most  of 
their  small  carts.  These  carts  are 
drawn  by  patient,  ill -fed  dogs,  fre- 
quently harnessed  side,  by  side,  with  a 
woman,  who  bends  beneath  the  heavy 
load.  It  is  in  Berlin  alone,  of  all  the 
cities  of  Xorthern  Germany,  where  one 
finds  women  performing  the  functions 
of  a  beast  of  burden  ;  the  custom  of 
course  prevails  through  the  country- 
side of  Southern  Germany.  Indeed.  I 
have  often  seen  a  woman,  shoeless  and 
scantily  clad,  harnessed  with  a  cow  to 
a  heavy  farm  wagon,  while  the  man, 
comfortably  smoking  the  inevitable 
pipe,  sat  beneath  the  sheltering  hood 
that  protects  the  driver's  seat. 

But  to  return  to  the  Berlin  market. 
The  present  lack  of  ';  atmosphere/'  as 
the  Germans  put  it,  is  due,  I  was  told, 
to  the  abolishing  of  the  revels  which 
had  always  accompanied  the  weekly 
sales.  Frederick  the  Great  is  respon- 
sible for  this,  for  upon  his  ascent  to 
the  throne,  in  tardy  recognition  of  the 
unmerited  disgrace  he  had  caused  to 
be  heaped  upon  Doris  Ritter,  he  abol- 
ished the  custom.  There  still  stands 
the  famous  old  palace,  whose  windows 


o6 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


in  those  days,  commanded  a  view  of 
the  entire  square,  where  Doris  Ritter 
was  publicly  scourged,  her  only  crime 
being  her  great  beauty,  which  fascin- 
ated the  crown  prince,  and  her  strength 
of  character  to  resist  his  advances. 
Down  that  square,  before  all  the  peo- 
ple, before  Frederick  the  Great,  who 
looked  down  from  a  palace  window, 
fled  Doris,  naked,  and  crying  out  with 
the  agony  of  the  pitiless  execution, 
and  pursued  by  the  jeers  and  taunts  of 
the  gaping  crowd.  The  old  red  brick 
rathhaus  near  by,  with  its  famous  rath- 
skelter \  is  still  the  try  sting-place  of  rol- 
licking students  and  impecunious  prac- 
titioners ;  but  the  old  days  of  public 
tragedy  are  no  more,  and  the  market 
square  breathes  only  an  atmosphere  of 
thrifty  commerce. 

The  large  plaza  in  Dresden  is  sur- 
rounded upon  the  four  sides  by  some 
of  the  finest  old  buildings  in  the  city. 
The  most  notable  event  on  this  plaza 
is  the  weekly  flower  sale,  which  oc- 
curs every  Friday  during  the  summer 
months.  I  was  told  by  an  old  market- 
man  that  it  was  a  saying  among  the 
people  that  the  spring  blossoms  drove 
away  the  clouds.  At  least,  one  year 
that  saying  proved  a  veritable  truth, 
for  never  a  drop  fell  on  a  Friday,  from 
the  first  week  in  May  till  the  last  of 
October.  And  how  the  square  did 
blossom  out  in  its  glory,  from  the  stately 
marble  of  Germania, —  that  ever-present 
reminder  of  the  Franco-Prussian  war, — 
even  to  the  very  doors  of  the  grim  build- 
ings on  all  sides  !  Thursday  evening 
there  would  be  nothing  but  cobble- 
stones ;  Friday  the  square  was  literally 
paved  with  flowers.  Dainty  wreaths  of 
forget-me-nots,  garlands  of  roses,  clus- 
ters of  tall  potted  plants,  bowls  filled  to 
overflowing  with  cut  flowers,  and,  mov- 


ing between  and  among  them  all,  the 
peasant  women  in  gala  dress.  It  was 
most  picturesque.  Had  I  been,  blind 
I  could  have  followed  my  nose,  and 
from  many  blocks  away  have  been 
guided  to  the  marketplace  by  the  subtle 
perfume  wafted  through  the  streets. 
This  custom  of  a  Friday  sale  is  said  to 
be  the  outgrowth  of  the  summer  pre- 
sentation of  tithes,  which  the  feudal 
lords  of  Saxony  compelled  their  serfs 
to  yield. 

It  was  in  the  provincial  towns,  how- 
ever, that  the  markets  proved  most 
unique.  Perhaps  the  setting  was  more 
quaint  because  of  the  inevitable  gable 
house  with  its  shelving  roof  and  curi- 
ously fashioned  windows.  The  goose 
market  of  Nuremberg  was  especially 
fascinating.  This  goose  sale  occurs 
around  devote  themselves  exclusively 
to  the  breeding  of  these  birds.  The 
Germans,  you  know,  are  avowedly 
lovers  of  the  stuffed  goose  at  all  sea- 
sons, and  this  special  farm  product 
always  knows  a  good  market.  On  the 
advent  of  market  day,  the  quiet  streets 
of  Nuremberg  turn  into  paths  of  mov- 
ing, fluttering  white,  as  the  noisy  flocks 
of  geese  pour  into  the  village  from  all 
sides,  on  their  way  to  the  geusemarkt. 
Such  a  sight  I  never  saw.  Some  of 
the  geese,  especially  the  leaders  of 
the  flocks,  strutted  along  with  out- 
stretched necks  and  half-spread  wings. 
Each  flock  was  followed  by  the  goose- 
girl  with  her  long,  slender  whip.  The 
laggards  and  the  stragglers  that  chose 
to  pry  into  open  courts,  or  side  streets, 
and  the  vicious  that  nipped  at  all  who 
came  their  way,  were  smartly  tapped 
into  line  by  a  deft  wielding  of  the 
whip.  Thousands  of  geese  were  thus 
coralled.  After  their  legs  were  bound 
they  were  flung  into  cackling,   strug- 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


07 


gling  heaps  around  the  base  of  the 
bronze  gansencinnchen,  a  diminutive 
statue  of  the  first  goose  merchant, 
which  was  placed  in  the  square  during 
the  sixteenth  century.  And  the  market 
opens,  and  their  owners  begin  sharp 
bargains  with  the  wholesale  merchants, 
who  gather  there  to  buy  large  commis- 
sions for  export  to  the  neighboring 
towns.  The  quacking  and  yelling  and 
screaming  is  something  terrible  ;  pan- 
demonium reigns  supreme.  I  never 
was  quite  sure  whether  the  geese  and 
the  venders  created  the  greater  racket, 
or  the  small  boys  who  crowded  the 
square  despite  the  dealers'  vigorous 
protests,  and  more  often  than  not,  ac- 
companied by  sharp  blows,  were  sent 


howling  to  a  nearby  doorway.  From 
the  opening  of  the  market  until  the  last 
goose  had  been  crowded  into  the  ex- 
port van,  the  din  and  the  scene  were 
most  impressive. 

Frequently  one  would  meet  the 
thrifty  housewife  driving  home  her 
geese,  willing  to  risk  the  discomforts 
and  incidents  of  such  a  promenade 
through  the  town  with  her  unruly  pur- 
chase, for  the  sake  of  saving  the  few 
groschens  demanded  for  transporta- 
tion. Probably  you  have  read  that  the 
country  people,  who  must  drive  their 
geese  many  miles  to  market,  send  them 
first  over  a  patch  of  soft  tar,  and  then 
on  to  a  sandbank,  for  thus  they  shoe 
their  geese  in  a  most  effectual  fashion. 


A    DISH   OF   CHESTNUTS. 

By  Eleanor  M.  Lucas. 


The  chestnut  is  becoming  very  pop- 
ular in  the  cuisine,  and  countless  are 
the  ways  in  which  it  may  appear,  to  give 
fresh  delight  by  its  own  delicacy  of 
flavor,  or  by  adding  something  that  so 
blends  with  other  flavors  as  to  prove  a 
joy  to  the  palate. 

The  housewife  in  search  of  new 
dishes  would  do  well  to  turn  her 
thoughts  in  this  direction  oftener  than 
she  has  done  hitherto.  Time  was, 
and  not  so  long  ago,  when  the  chest- 
nut was  considered  an  expensive  lux- 
ury, to  use  on  state  occasions  only,  in 
Nesselrode,  and  puddings  of  that  type. 
That  is  changed  now,  and  the  chestnut 
is  beginning  to  take  its  proper  place 
in  our  autumn  and  winter  menus. 

Delicious  soups  are  made  with  chest- 
nuts.    A  cream  of   chestnut  with  cher- 


vil is  a  really  delightful  concoction. 
Remove  the  outer  rind  from  the  chest- 
nuts, and  cover  with  boiling  water  ;  as 
the  water  cools  slip  the  brown  skin 
from  the  nuts,  and  drop  them  in 
cold  water.  Cook  a  quart  of  meats 
in  sufficient  water  to  cover  until 
quite  tender ;  add,  while  cooking,  one 
small  onion,  three  outer  stalks  of  cel- 
ery, a  small  blade  of  mace,  and  one 
bay  leaf.  When  the  nuts  are  tender, 
mash  through  a  puree  sieve ;  return 
to  the  fire,  add  two  quarts  of  white 
stock,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  paprica,  and  one  pint  of 
hot  milk.  When  the  soup  boils,  draw 
to  the  back  of  the  stove,  and  add  a 
liaison  of  two  raw  egg  yolks,  beaten 
thoroughly  with  half  a  cup  of  sweet 
cream.     Have  ready  in  the    tureen   a 


io8 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE. 


tablespoonful  of  very  fine  -  chopped 
chervil ;  pour  in  the  hot  soup  and 
serve. 

Another  excellent  puree  calls  for 
one  cup  of  cooked  and  mashed  chest- 
nuts and  one  cup  of  cooked  tomato; 
mix  with  two  quarts  of  stock,  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  celery  salt,  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  onion  juice,  and  a  dash  of  cay- 
enne. Let  come  to  a  boil,  strain,  mix 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  boil  three 
minutes  and  serve. 

A  tempting  entree  may  be  made  by 
mashing  a  pound  of  roasted  chestnuts 
to  a  paste.  Add  half  a  cup  of  sweet 
cream,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  par- 
sley, and  two  well-beaten  eggs ;  pour 
into  buttered  timbale  cups,  and  bake 
(in  a  pan  of  hot  water)  in  a  hot  oven 
twenty-five  minutes.  Remove  from  the 
moulds,  and  serve  with  a  cream  sauce 
or  a  rich  tomato  sauce. 

For  chestnut  croquettes,  mash  the 
roasted  nuts  to  a  smooth  paste;  to 
one  cup  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  the  grated 
peel  of  a  lemon,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  and  the  beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs.  Form  into  balls 
the  size  of  a  large  chestnut,  dip  in  yolk 
of  egg,  then  in  fine  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
deep  fat.  Serve  with  lemon  juice,  and 
garnish  with  parsley  sprays. 

Lentils  and  chestnuts  go  well  to- 
gether. A  few  chestnuts  mashed  and 
added  to  a  lentil  puree  give  a  new 
flavor  to  that  dish;  lentil -and -chest- 
nut cutlets  are  also  good  eating.  Rub 
one  cup  of  cook  lentils  through  a  sieve, 
add  half  a  cup  of  mashed  chestnuts 
that  have  been  roasted  until  tender,  a 
tablespoonful  of  onion  juice,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  chopped  parsley,  a  table- 
spoonful  of   butter,   a   teaspoonful    of 


salt,  and  two  eggs.  Mould  into  cutlet 
shapes,  brush  with  egg,  dip  in  fine 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat. 

Brussels  sprouts  and  chestnuts  are 
frequently  served  together.  Cook  the 
sprouts  until  tender,  and  roast  the  nuts. 
To  a  quart  of  sprouts  add  a  pint  of 
nuts,  and  serve  in  a  thick  cream  sauce. 
The  same  combination,  omitting  the 
sauce  and  substituting  a  French  dress- 
ing, gives  an  excellent  salad  to  serve  with 
broiled  game.  A  few  stoned  olives  or 
chopped  truffles  may  be  added.  For 
an  evening  affair,  the  salad  may  be 
dressed  with  a  mayonnaise,  and  with  it 
one  could  serve  pigeons  or  partridges 
in  jelly;  and  with  sandwiches,  and 
some  dainty  sweet, —  an  orange  merin- 
gue or  a  banana  jelly, —  an  excellent 
supper  for  a  card  party  is  made  with 
little  trouble. 

Chestnuts  are  excellent  simply  stewed 
until  tender  and  served  in  a  rich  white 
sauce,  or  mashed  with  cream,  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt. 

Devilled  chestnuts  are  liked  with 
cheese.  Roast  until  tender,  remove 
the  shells  and  thin  inner  skin.  Saute 
in  hot  butter  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper.  The  piquant  flavor 
goes  excellently  with  a  cheese  fondue 
or  a  cheese  souffle'. 

The  chestnut  salad  is  much  in  favor, 
and  great  is  the  variety  both  in  method 
of  preparation  and  serving.  The  chest- 
nuts should,  in  any  case,  be  cooked 
until  very  tender,  cooled,  and  mixed 
with  the  dressing. 

For  a  dinner  salad,  chestnuts  with 
cress  are  exceedingly  good.  Pile  the 
chestnuts  on  a  flat  dish,  surround  with 
sprigs  of  cress,  and  pour  over  a  French 
dressing.  Equal  parts  of  shredded 
celery  and  chestnuts  is  a  popular  com- 
bination.     Apples    and    chestnuts    go 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


IO9 


well  together.  The  apples  are  pared, 
cored  and  cut  in  slices,  and  mixed 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  chestnut 
meats.  Dress  with  French  dressing, 
and  garnish  with  lettuce  hearts. 

A  cream  mayonnaise  may  be  served 
with  any  of  these  combinations ;  and 
chestnuts  served  in  rosy-cheeked  apple 
cups  with  a  mayonnaise  are  a  favorite 
luncheon  dainty. 

Celery  jelly  is  a  great  addition  to  a 
salad  of  chestnuts  and  lettuce.  Cut  up 
the  outer  green  stalks  of  celery  ;  to  a 
cup  use  one  pint  of  water,  a  slice  of 
onion,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a 
dash  of  cayenne.  Let  simmer  until 
soft,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  granulated 
gelatine  that  has  been  softened  in  cold 
water,  and  strain.  If  wanted  very 
clear,  strain  through  a  jelly  bag.  A 
few  drops  of  green  coloring  may  be 
added.  This  jelly  is  usually  moulded 
in  a  ring  mould  ;  when  hard  turn  out 
on  a  bed  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  and 
fill  the  centre  with  a  mayonnaise  of 
chestnuts. 

Frequently  the  jelly  is  left  pale,  and 
moulded  with  whole  chestnut  meats. 
A  pretty  way  to  manage  this  is  to 
have  two  bowls,  one  two  inches  in 
diameter  larger  than  the  other.  Pour 
a  layer  of  the  jelly  into  the  larger  bowl, 
then  put  in  a  layer  of  cooked  chestnut 
meats ;  poor  over  these  another  layer 
of  jelly  and  set  on  ice.  When  the 
jelly  is  quite  firm,  put  in  the  smaller 
bowl  (which  may  hold  half  a  pint  or  a 
pint,  according  to  the  number  of  per- 
sons to  be  served),  placing  it  exactly  in 
the  centre,  so  that  the  space  all  around 
will  be  the  same.  Then  fill  up  the 
space  all  around  with  layers  of  jelly 
and  chestnuts,  and  set  on  ice.  When 
firm  and  cold  pour  a  little  warm  water 
in  the  inner  bowl  to  loosen   it,  give  a 


twist,  then  lift  it  out  carefully.  Un- 
mould  the  jelly,  set  it  on  a  pretty  dish, 
and  fill  the  hollow  centre  with  mayon- 
naise :  surround  with  small  pale-green 
lettuce  leaves.  If  the  jelly  is  very 
clear,  the  yellow  mayonnaise  will  show 
through,  thus  making  a  pretty  color 
contrast  with  the  green  of  the  lettuce. 
This  can  be  varied  infinitely ;  one  may 
use  a  cream  mayonnaise  and  the  red 
leaves  of  the  passion  lettuce.  Mayon- 
naise colored  a  dainty  green,  with  a 
ravigotte  of  fresh  herbs,  makes  another 
agreeable  variant;  or  the  celery  jelly 
may  be  made  from  the  water  in  which 
chicken  was  cooked,  and  colored  a 
clear  amber  with  a  browned  onion, 
then  moulded  in  a  ring  mould,  which 
may  encircle  a  salad  of  chestnut  meats 
and  chicken  cut  in  dice  and  mixed  with 
mayonnaise. 

Tomato  jelly  with  chestnuts,  served 
with  mayonnaise,  gives  a  delicious 
salad ;  and  when  fresh  tomatoes  are 
obtainable  a  tomato-ice  moulded  with 
chestnuts  and  served  with  a  cold  may- 
onnaise, is  delicious  to  the  palate  and 
alluring  to  the  eye,  on  days  when  some- 
thing cold  and  delectable  is  the  desire 
of  every  housewife. 

Chestnuts  candied  with  chocolate 
make  a  wholesome  sweet.  Shell  and 
blanch  a  pint  of  chestnuts,  and  cook  un- 
til tender  in  slightly  salted  water  ;  drain. 
Melt  two  ounces  of  chocolate  over  hot 
water  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
(do  not  add  any  water  to  the  chocolate). 
Mix  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Put  the 
sugar  and  water  to  boil,  and  let  boil, 
without  stirring,  until  a  little  dropped 
into  cold  water  crystallizes  to  the  brittle 
point  immediately.  Take  it  off  from 
the  fire  and  add  the  chocolate.  Dip 
the   chestnuts,    one  by  one,   into   this 


I  IO 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


solution,  fishing  them  out  with  forks 
and  laying  them  on  waxed  paper.  The 
briefest  immersion  will  be  sufficient  to 
give  each  nut  the  desired  coating  of 
chocolate  candy.  Let  cool,  and  store 
in  air-tight  cans.  The  chocolate  may 
be  omitted,  and  the  syrup  colored  a 
pretty  pink  with  a  few  drops  of  red 
coloring -matter.  These  pretty  pink 
and  brown  balls  are  much  in  demand 
with  little  folks,  and,  if  the  syrup  is 
flavored  with  crime  de  tnenthe,  the  bon- 
bons are  quite  acceptable  as  an  after- 
dinner  sweet. 

A  most  delicate  dessert,  or,  in  fact, 
a  variety  of  desserts,  can  be  concocted 
with  that  dainty  standby  of  the  French 
chef, —  marrofis  au  juc.  These  are  sim- 
ply chestnuts  cooked  in  a  lemon  syrup. 
They  can  be  prepared  in  quantity,  and 
sealed  in  jars  to  do  duty  for  emergency 
desserts  or  otherwise.  Roast  the  chest- 
nuts until  tender  and  remove  the  husks 
and  thin  inner  skin.  Make  a  rich 
syrup  of  one  pint  of  water  and  one  pound 
of  sugar,  let  boil  five  minutes,  and  add 
the  thin  yellow  peel  of  one  lemon  and 
the  juice  of  two.  To  the  above  quan- 
tity of  syrup  add  one  pint  of  chestnut 
meats  ;  let  simmer  very  gently  ten  min- 
utes, fill  into  jars,  and  seal  while  hot. 
When  cold  they  are  ready  for  use. 
One  can  use  these   as  they  are,  and 


serve  with  some  dainty  wafers  or  sponge 
cakes.  Or  serve  in  frappe'  glasses  with 
a  spoonful  of  curacao,  or  creme  de  noy- 
eaux,  and  top  the  whole  with  whipped 
cream.  Serve  icy  cold.  The  nuts 
may  be  frozen  with  whipped  cream, 
after  the  manner  of  a  parfait;  or  mould 
them  with  lemon  or  orange  jelly,  and 
serve  with  cream  delicately  sugared 
and  flavored  with  chartreuse.  Just  be- 
fore the  chestnuts  are  sealed  a  pint  of 
maraschino  may  be  added  to  each  pint 
of  chestnuts.  These  should  be  kept  a 
month  or  two  before  using. 

Cream  jellies  may  be  delightfully 
varied  by  the  addition  of  chestnuts  in 
lemon  syrup,  and  a  plain  custard  as- 
sumes a  different  aspect,  if  a  few  of  the 
chestnuts  are  placed  in  the  cups  before 
filling  them. 

A  highly  attractive  dessert  is  made 
with  a  pint  of  soft  custard;  add  to  it 
a  tablespoonful  of  granulated  gelatine, 
softened  in  a  tablespoonful  of  milk. 
Strain  and  whip  until  almost  cold,  add 
a  pint  of  the  chestnuts,  and  mould 
in  a  fancy  mould.  Serve  with  a  sauce 
made  by  adding  to  half  a  pint  of  cream, 
whipped  to  a  froth,  one  gill  of  the 
chestnut  juice  (from  the  jar),  half  a 
gill  of  yellow  chartreuse,  and  one  table- 
spoonful of  powdered  sugar.  Beat  all 
together. 


WHO  BIDES  HIS  TIME. 


Who  bides  his  time — he  tastes  the  sweet 

Of  honey,  in  the  saltest  tear ; 
And  though  he  fares  with  slowest  feet, 

Joy  runs  to  meet  him,  drawing  near; 
The  birds  are  heralds  of  his  cause, 

And,  like  a  never-ending  rhyme, 
The  roadsides  bloom  in  his  applause, 

Who  bides  his  time. 

— James  JV/iitco?nb  Riley. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


I  I  I 


DIET    IN    TYPHOID    FEVER, 

By  Lucy  Barney  Hall,  M.D. 


As  the  typhoid  season  is  at  hand,  a 
brief  resume  as  to  diet  may  refresh  the 
mind  or  be  helpful  to  some  friend  of 
the  afflicted;  for  we  never  expect  a 
visitation  of  sickness  in  our  own  house- 
holds. 

On  general  principles  some  form  of 
food  must  be  selected  that  will  be  nu- 
tritious, easily  digested,  and  non-irri- 
tating to  the  stomach  and  bowels. 

This  may  seem  a  simple  matter,  but 
each  case  becomes  to  a  certain  extent 
an  individual  one,  calling  forth  the 
best  judgment,  knowledge,  and  perse- 
verance on  the  part  of  both  physician 
and  nurse. 

The  feeding,  once  commenced,  be- 
comes a  constant  care;  some  liquid 
food  must  be  procured  that  the  stom- 
ach will  retain,  the  amount  that  the 
patient  can  take  at  a  given  time  must 
be  carefully  estimated,  the  intervals 
adjusted,  and  the  food  given  with  a 
regularity  and  perseverance  that  knows 
no  give-up,  unless  the  regimen  be 
contraindicated,  as  it  may  be,  at  any 
moment,  by  nausea,  restlessness,  too 
laxative  a  condition  of  the  bowels, 
tympanites,  etc. 

The  little  feeding-cup  becomes  in- 
valuable, concealing,  as  it  does,  the 
food  to  be  given,  and  saving  the  many 
annoyances  of  spoon  -  feeding.  The 
trained  nurse  is  expert  in  placing  the 
little  tube  between  the  lips,  so  that  just 
a  swallow  will  be  poured  at  a  time, 
with  an  interval  of  rest.  We  always 
feel  so  thankful  for  every  ounce  re- 
tained, whether  it  be  taken  all  at  once 
or  given  half  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time. 


The  anxious  friends  try  too  hard  to 
find  tasty  nourishment ;  every  physi- 
cian has  seen  the  bedside  table  ladened 
with  food  stuffs,  —  milk,  jellies,  fruits, 
crackers,  etc.,  —  and  the  patient  ex- 
hausted, in  reality  starving,  for  lack  of 
food,  being  too  sick  to  know  what  he 
desires,  or  to  take  it,  when  brought,  of 
his  own  free  will.  Prepare  the  right 
food,  bring  it  to  the  bedside,  and  he 
will  generally  take  it  as  a  matter  of 
course.  Find  one  article  of  food,  and 
push  it.  Oftentimes  a  food  that  is  re- 
jected by  a  person  in  health  as  dis- 
agreeing with  him,  in  convalescence 
can  be  taken  in  goodly  quantities  and 
be  assimilated. 

This  is  often  true  of  milk,  the 
ideal  food,  and  a  faithful  trial  of  it 
should  be  made  in  every  case.  The 
best  milk  possible  should  be  obtained, 
that  each  ounce  may  be  counted  gain. 
Give  in  small  quantities,  at  first  dilut- 
ing with  plain  water  or  lime-water ; 
when  well  borne,  flavoring  with  a  little 
coffee  or  cocoa,  once  or  twice  in  the 
twenty -four  hours,  makes  a  change 
seemingly  appreciated  by  the  patient, 
even  when  delirious ;  bovinine  in  tea- 
spoon doses  in  milk  can  often  be  taken 
at  intervals. 

White  of  egg,  beaten  in  a  small  glass 
of  water  and  given  in  small  portions, 
is  highly  nourishing  ;  beef  tea,  chicken 
and  lamb  broths,  may  be  interspersed, 
and  the  effect  on  the  bowels  carefully 
watched. 

What  agrees  with  one  patient  cannot 
be  taken  at  all  by  the  next.  I  recall 
the  case  of  a  high-school  girl,  fever  ex- 


I  12 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKTNG-SCHOOL   MAGAZTNE. 


treme,  and  in  a  condition  of  partial  stu- 
por; broth,  milk,  bovinine  would  be 
taken  and  immediately  thrown  back, — 
purely  mechanical  vomiting. —  to  even  a 
teaspoonful.  On  questioning  her  par- 
ents as  to  what  had  agreed  with  her  stom- 
ach, always  exceedingly  delicate,  I  was 
told  that  she  was  in  the  habit  of  taking 
raw  eggs  each  morning,  of  which  they 
always  had  plenty  on  the  place.  An 
egg  was  put  to  her  lips  in  a  saucer  (her 
usual  method  of  taking  it),  and  she 
was  told  to  swallow  ;  it  slipped  down  so 
easily  that  it  was  with  the  greatest  sat- 
isfaction that  the  father  prepared  the 
egg  at  regular  intervals.  They  were 
taken  and  digested  without  apparent 
difficulty.  Days  later,  when  a  little 
broth  could  be  taken,  the  eggs  still 
continued  to  be  the  article  preferred 
and  best  retained. 

Orange  and  grape  juices,  plain  or 
diluted  with  water  or  ice,  given  any 
time,  day  or  night,  in  small  quantities, 
are  very  refreshing  to  the  patient, 
cleansing  the  mouth  and  making  a 
change,  especially  when  the  patient 
begins  to  realize  his  surroundings. 

Another  difficulty  may  arise.  —  the 
most  approved  food  may  be  at  hand 
and  yet  you  may  be  unable  to  give  it 
as  desired  on  account  of  delirium.  A 
patient  in  this  condition  will  battle 
against  every  teaspoonful.  If  the  aver- 
sion be  confined  to  screams  and  the 
body  can  be  kept  quiet,  mouth-feeding 
must  be  persevered  in.  though  supple- 
mented by  rectal  feeding  of  milk  with 
bovinine,  and  perhaps  a  small  quantity 
of  brandy,  if  needed  ;  in  these  cases  the 
stimulant  becomes  a  food. 

In  speaking  of  liquids,  water  must 
not  be  forgotten,  and  it  is  well  to  give 
a  small  quantity  systematically,  at  short 
intervals,  every  twenty-four  hours. 


If  all  goes  well  and  the  fever  is  di- 
minished, the  patient  and  friends  to- 
gether will  beg  or  think  that  there 
should  be  a  change  in,  or  something 
added  to,  the  bill  of  fare.  But  the 
patient  is  gaining  all  the  time,  has 
plenty  of  food ;  why  take  chances  ?  He 
does  not  realize  what  a  monotonous 
diet  he  has  had  nearly  so  fully  as  the 
onlookers  ;  encourage  him  to  wait,  and 
promise  generosity  later. 

Carefully  add  gelatines,  blanc-manger 
custards,  plain  bread  pudding,  oyster 
stew  without  oysters,  cream  toastr 
moist  toast,  dropped  egg  on  toast. 
What  a  delight  to  the  hungry  one !  A 
cup  of  weak  coffee  for  breakfast  or 
cocoa  for  supper  makes  one  of  the 
changes  so  appreciated  by  the  sick. 
Who  that  has  passed  through  this  ill- 
ness will  ever  forget  the  extra  half- 
slice  of  toast  or  double  portion  of  egg 
granted,  or  the  first  little  breakfast  or 
dinner  ?  And  now  a  potato,  roasted 
and  spread  with  butter  and  a  dash  of 
salt,  may  be  added  ;  also  rice,  gerrri 
and  oat  meals,  well  cooked.  —  almost 
anything  in  the  farinaceous  line.  Then 
give  the  scraped  beef  cakes,  later,  meat 
to  chew,  but  not  to  swallow,  finally,  a 
piece  to  eat  like  other  folks,  once  a 
day. 

Fruits  and  vegetables  must  be  added 
cautiously  and  the  action  on  the  bowels 
carefully  noted,  a  limited  quantity  of 
these  being  most  beneficial  in  keep- 
ing the  bowels  regulated.  This  is  the 
essential  thing, —  that  no  irritation  may 
develop  from  retained  faecal  matter. 
Foods  containing  seeds,  husks  or  other 
irritating  qualities  should  be  avoided 
for  some  time,  otherwise  the  patient 
may  return  to  a  regular  diet. 

There  are  many  theories  advanced 
on  the  subject  of  diet  in  this  disease. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


I  I 


Some  advise  one  or  another  of  the 
many  food  preparations  now  on  the 
market,  given  alone  or  in  connection 
with  milk,  etc.  Others — a  very  small 
minority,  fortunately — advise  a  diet 
of  solid  food,  feeling  that  this  is  neces- 
sary to  combat  the  waste  going  on  in 


the  system.  But,  with  the  diet  out- 
lined above,  the  patient  holds  his  own 
during  the  acute  stage  of  the  disease, 
is  well  prepared  to  meet  the  inevitable 
period  of  exhaustion,  and  makes  an 
excellent  convalescence  and  restoration 
to  complete  health. 


THE  BUSINESS  WOMAN  IN  THE  HOME. 

By   Martha  L.  Roberts, 

Counsellor-at-Iaii'. 


For  many  eras  after  Eve's  lamentable 
blunder  in  plucking  the  forbidden  fruit 
from  the  tree  of  knowledge,  the  sons  of 
Adam  were  on  their  guard  against  per- 
mitting the  gentle  sex  a  second  dubious 
experiment,  and  surrounded  the  tree 
with  all  sorts  of  prohibitory  signs.  The 
fair  ones  themselves  shrank  from  a  too 
close  contact  with  studies  i{  fitted  only 
for  the  masculine  mind;"  but  now  and 
then  a  daring  pioneer  would  shake  the 
tree,  succeeding  in  bringing  down,  in 
many  cases,  only  indigestible  apples, 
and  in  evoking  the  ridicule  and  censure 
of  men. 

Governor  Winthrop,  in  his  diary,  ex- 
presses the  view  current  at  that  time 
and  for  many  generations  afterwards 
when  he  wrote:  "Mr.  Hopkins,  the 
governor  of  Hartford,  came  to  Boston, 
and  brought  his  wife  with  him  (a  goodly 
young  woman  and  of  special  parts),  who 
has  fallen  into  a  sad  infirmity,  the  loss 
of  her  understanding  and  reason,  which 
had  been  growing  upon  her  divers  years, 
by  occasion  of  her  giving  herself  wholly 
to  reading  and  writing,  and  had  written 
many  books.  Her  husband,  being  very 
loving  and  tender  of  her,  was  loath  to 
grieve  her,  but  he  saw  his  error  when  it 


was  too  late ;  for.  if  she  had  attended 
her  household  affairs  and  such  things 
as  belong  to  women,  and  not  gone  out 
of  her  way  and  calling  to  meddle  in  such 
things  as  are  proper  for  men,  whose 
minds  are  stronger,  she  had  kept  her 
wits  and  might  have  improved  them 
usefully  and  honorably  in  the  place  God 
had  set  her." 

Now,  after  a  long  devotion  to  strictly 
"feminine  studies,"  —  as  if  there  were 
such  a  thing  as  sex  in  study,  — women 
are  accorded  the  right  and  opportunity 
to  study  anything  that  delights  their 
souls  and  appeals  to  their  intellects, 
whether  it  be  Hindoo  philosophy,  elec- 
tricity, the  laws  governing  the  health  of 
the  body  or  those  controlling  the  right 
to  acquire  and  dispose  of  property. 
Yet.  even  at  the  very  close  of  this  so- 
called  woman's  century,  many,  who 
really  believe  in  equal  opportunities  for 
woman,  look  askance  at  the  almost  uni- 
versal education  of  women,  saying  "  all 
this  knowledge  of  Greek,  or  the  calcu- 
lus, or  cellular  life,  or  political  science, 
does  very  well  for  those  who  do  not 
marry,  whose  aim  is  independence,  — 
an  impossibility  in  this  intricate  society 
of  ours,  —  and  who,  from   ambition   or 


ii4 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


from  lack  of  a  sufficient  income,  enter 
upon  a  stern  competition  in  the  busi- 
ness world,  causing  inevitable  heart 
sinkings  and  vexation."  But,  after  all, 
the  majority  of  women,  whether  mar- 
ried or  in  the  state  of  unwedded  self- 
sufficiency,  at  some  period  of  their  lives 
are  responsible  in  a  more  or  less  degree 
for  the  happiness  and  economical  wel- 
fare of  some  home;  and  these  are  the 
ones  who  require  the  broadest  and  most 
liberal  education,  —  an  education  that 
may  furnish  a  solution  for  every  house- 
hold problem,  one  that  embraces  more 
branches  than  are  necessary  for  the 
teacher,  the  banker,  or  the  lawyer. 

No  popular  saying  has  been  more 
perverted  from  its  true  meaning  than 
the  oft-repeated  "  Woman's  sphere  is  the 
home."  Worn  an  ?s  sphere  is  the  home  ; 
she  must  ever  add  charm  and  homeness 
to  the  four  walls.  Man  has  no  power 
to  make  a  home  ;  but,  that  she  may  fill 
her  sphere,  it  is  by  no  means  necessary 
that  she  be  denied  a  latchkey,  or  that 
she  must  wash  dishes  or  do  the  family 
laundry.  The  reaction  from  the  former 
narrow  view  of  her  sphere,  although  at 
times  apparently  too  extreme  for  the 
welfare  of  society,  has  been  a  decidedly 
healthful  one,  and  untold  blessings  will 
follow  for  both  men  and  women;  for 
"  no  good  can  come  to  woman  that  does 
not  benefit  man,  and  no  harm  that  does 
not  hurt  him." 

But,  now  that  we  have  women  as 
physicians,  as  lawyers,  as  scientists,  as 
architects,  and  as  bicyclists  (the  bicycle 
has  done  more  for  the  "  emancipation 
of  women"  than  the  ballot  can  do),  and 
they  have  proved  their  ability  to  do 
everything  that  their  brothers  can  do, 
without  considering  always  the  benefit 
to  be  gained  by  the  doing,  let  them 
cease    to    worrv  themselves    about    a 


Career  (with  a  capital  C),  but  let  them 
learn  that  the  humblest  duties,  per- 
formed with  intelligence  and  wise  fore- 
thought, will  enrich  and  stimulate  the 
lives  of  others,  thus  making  a  career 
fitting  them  like  a  tailor-made  garment. 
Now  that  she  has  learned  that  she  can 
go  where  her  inclination  leads,  and  that 
her  work  in  the  business  world  (apart 
from  the  self-congratulations  of  women's 
clubs)  is  weighed  in  the  same  scales  as 
that  of  men,  and  if  found  wanting  is 
just  as  surely  condemned,  let  her  not 
feel  that  notoriety  is  always  a  synonym 
of  usefulness,  and  that  it  is  the  crying 
need  of  the  hour  to  do  man's  work  in 
man's  way;  and  then  she  can  spend 
more  time,  so  valuable  and  so  frequently 
spent  without  profit,  in  solving  the  des- 
perate problems,  so  distinctly  woman's, 
of  good  home  management,  from  the 
standpoint  of  health  and  of  social  and 
economic  needs.  So  long  as  she  was 
a  slave  to  the  tyrant,  housekeeping,  she 
was  inevitably  a  drudge,  and  it  is  no 
wonder  that  the  children  of  these  slave 
mothers  looked  upon  housework  as 
drudgery,  and,  with  their  false  ideas  of 
its  possibilities,  longed  to  escape  it,  at 
any  cost.  And  fortunate  for  the  world 
have  been  these  efforts  to  escape,  for 
through  them  have  been  made  possible 
all  the  broad  education  and  all  the 
avenues  leading  to  a  right  appreciation 
of  the  dignity  and  value  of  labor,  all  so 
necessary  to  raising  home  management 
to  the  level  of  a  successful  business  or 
of  a  profession. 

Yet  another  important  step  must  be 
taken,  before  women  can  assume  the 
responsibilities  of  housekeeping  with 
the  same  enthusiasm,  the  same  ideals, 
and  the  same  belief  in  a  mission  that 
they  have  when  they  enter  upon  the 
all-absorbing  duties  of  the  medical  pro- 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


IJ5 


fession  :  they  must  devote  some  of  their 
time  and  some  of  their  energies  to  a 
special  course  for  their  training  as 
housewives.  After  their  general  edu- 
cation, which  makes  clear  to  them  the 
best  sanitary  conditions  of  the  home, 
which  teaches  them  the  chemical  prop- 
erties of  food  and  the  way  to  detect 
adulterations,  which  has  given  them 
the  scientific  spirit  with  its  patient 
investigation  of  facts,  and,  best  of  all, 
which  has  taught  them  that  sickness  is 
a  sin  against  the  body,  and  that  "  deli- 
cacy "  is  a  cause  for  shame  rather  than 
self-congratulation,  let  them  make  a 
careful  study  of  the  ways  and  means  of 
saving  strength,  of  the  selection  of  the 
best  food  products,  and  of  the  prepara- 
tion of  food,  that  healthful  and  appetiz- 
ing dishes  may  be  served,  and  they  will 
cease  to  remark  the  drudgery  of  the 
work,  but  will  extol  the  altruism  and  the 
advantage  of  personal  development  in 
this  as  in  other  professions.  After  the 
true  value  of  housekeeping  is  once 
appreciated,  no  one  will  be  despised  for 
entering  upon  its  duties ;  but  by  no 
means  is  it  necessary  that  women  re- 
nounce their  role  as  bread-winners  or 
active  interest  in  the  burning  questions 
of  the  day,  for  these  will  not  hinder  the 
success  of  home-making,  when  once 
they  are  thoroughly  understood. 

But,  in  addition  to  this  more  special 
training,  how  much  is  the  wife's  and 
mother's  efficiency  in  the  home  in- 
creased by  a  thorough  knowledge  of 
general  business  principles  and  of  laws 
relating  to  her  rights  ;  for  no  business 
or  manufactory  could  long  flourish  with 
the  manager  ignorant  of  any  special 
legislation  relating  to  such  business  or 
of  the  simple  principles  of  banking! 
How  many  a  dollar  a  prudent  house- 
wife   can    save  by  knowing    the   rules 


that  govern  the  deposit  of  money  in  a 
bank  !  By  a  little  forethought  in  regard 
to  interest,  she  can  frequently  save  quite 
an  amount ;  and  many  women  prefer  to 
keep  on  hand  their  money  for  house- 
hold expenses  (thus  running  the  risk  of 
having  it  stolen  by  dishonest  servants), 
rather  than  to  put  it  into  a  bank,  be- 
cause of  their  ignorance  of  the  methods 
of  opening  an  account  and  drawing  a 
check.  The  check  would  serve  as  a 
receipt  for  a  paid  bill,  and  would  pre- 
vent the  complaint  so  often  made : 
"  Why,  I  am  sure  that  I  paid  that  bill, 
but  I  cannot  find  the  receipt  anywhere." 

One  who  has  property  of  her  own, 
which  she  wishes  to  enjoy  herself  or  from 
which  she  desires  her  children  to  derive 
benefit,  must  be  cautious  about  lending 
it  to  her  husband,  or  giving  it  to  him  to 
put  into  a  bank  or  otherwise  to  invest  for 
her,  or  letting  it  be  employed  in  his 
business ;  for  a  rigid  application  of  the 
rule  that  husband  and  wife  cannot  con- 
tract with  each  other  has  deprived  many 
a  woman  of  her  former  earnings,  or 
an  inheritance,  when  ill  success  has 
attended  some  business  enterprise  in 
which  her  husband  has  engaged.  The 
law  permits  married  women  to  make 
contracts  as  if  sole,  but  no  change  in 
legislation  has  been  made  giving  her 
the  right  to  make  contracts  with  her 
husband.  If  a  wife  lends  money  di- 
rectly to  her  husband  or  to  a  firm  of 
which  he  is  a  member,  she  has  no  rem- 
edy at  law  for  recovering  the  same  ;  for 
all  such  attempted  contracts  are  void. 

A  little  knowledge  of  all  such  subtle 
distinctions  in  law  will  often  save  a  loss 
of  property.  Every  married  woman 
who  has  property  should  keep  her  own 
bank  account,  and,  if  she  wishes  to  own 
additional  personal  property  of  value, 
should  buy  in  her  own  name  and  pay 


u6 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


with  her  own  checks,  that  she  may  not 
exceed  the  amount  that  the  statute  per- 
mits her  to  receive  as  a  gift  from  her 
husband. 

A  woman  who  is  about  to  enter  into 
any  business  enterprise  should  follow 
the  law  in  regard  to  the  certificate  to 
be  filed  in  the  office  of  the  city  or  town 
clerk,  otherwise  the  property  is  liable 
to  be  attached  as  the  property  of  her 
husband,  and  he  might  be  liable  on  any 
contracts  made  in  the  course  of  such 
business  as  if  the  contracts  had  been 
made  by  him  personally. 

The  laws  relating  to  inheritance  of 
real  and  personal  estate  should  be  well 
comprehended,  that  nothing  may  be 
done  detrimental  to  the  interests  of 
children  in  the  property  of  parents,  or, 
if  the  law  will  not  dispose  of  the  prop- 
erty after  the  death  of  either  parent,  as 
would   seem   desirable,  in  order  that  a 


duly  executed  will  may  be  made  and 
the  assent  of  the  husband,  if  necessary, 
may  be  obtained. 

Many  other  branches  of  the  laws  of 
business  and  of  those  relating  to  the 
custody  of  children  and  to  property 
rights  can  be  applied  to  the  advantage 
of  the  home ;  but  enough  have  been 
cited  to  show  the  benefit  to  be  derived 
from  a  broad  knowledge  of  legal  rights 
and  duties.  We  agree  with  Mr.  Edward 
Bok  that  "  where  a  home  is  narrow 
something  is  amiss;"  but  broadness  of 
view  must  be  gained  beyond  the  four 
walls  of  a  house,  and  then,  as  never 
before,  will  be  seen  the  truth  of  the 
grand  words  of  Ruskin,  "  Wherever  a 
true  woman  comes,  home  is  always 
around  her,  and  for  a  noble  woman  it 
stretches  far  around  her,  shedding  its 
quiet  light  far  for  those  who  else  are 
homeless/'' 


ONE    OF    US. 

By  Kate  M.  Post. 

(  Written  for  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine.) 


There's  a  low  gray  stone  in  our  hillside  plot, 

Just  there  where  the  setting  sun 
Throws  its  last  bright  rays  ere  it  goes  to  rest, 

When  the  summer's  day  is  done. 

And  beneath  its  shadow  lies  one  of  us, 

Not  of  our  nation,  or  name ; 
But  where  she  has  gone  —  ah!  it  matters  not, 

Her  lineage,  or  whence  she  came. 

She's  fought   the  good    fight  in   her   humble 
sphere, 

And  patiently,  day  by  day, 
Forgetful  of  self,  ever  toiling  on, 

Gladdened  for  others  the  way. 

Ah  !  many  a  boyish  grief  she  has  soothed 
With  some  dainty  from  her  store, 

And  many  a  childish  tear  she  has  dried 
Behind  the  old  pantry  door. 


Father  in  sorrow,  or  mother  in  grief, 
Were  cheer'ed  by  her  kindly  smile 

And  her  faithful  heart,  that  never  forgot 
Their  creature  comforts  the  while. 

She  knew,  though  she'd  never  reasoned  it  out. 

Or  read  it  in  any  book, 
That  family  happiness  much  depends 

Upon  the  family  cook. 

So,  sharing  our  sorrows,  our  hopes  and  fears, 

Ennobling  her  lowly  sphere, 
She  has  earned,  I  know,  a  reward  above, 

For  her  cheerful  service  here;    • 

And  we  —  how  we  miss  this  kindly  old  friend, 

Whose  sympathy,  always  true, 
Like  the  love  of  Heaven  from  whence  it  came, 

Shielded  us  more  than  we  knew  ! 


THE   BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL   MAGAZIXE. 


117 


THE  PUBLIC   KITCHEN   AND  ITS   MEANING. 
By  Helen  Campbell. 


"  It's  simply  another  form  of  shirk- 
ing." said  the  old  gentleman,  who  had 
been  frowning  darkly  at  his  paper, 
as  he  turned  to  his  companion,  a 
younger  man  with  a  bored  expression, 
who  glanced  for  a  moment  at  the  ob- 
noxious paragraph  pointed  out.  and 
then  looked  again  from  the  car  win- 
dow. It  was  the  California  Limited, 
in  which  we  were  speeding  toward  our 
respective  destinations,  and.  my  section 
being  just  across  the  aisle,  it  was  easy 
to  hear. 

"  You  don't  see  the  bearing  of  it," 
continued  the  old  gentleman  still  more 
testily.  •'  I  have  always  told  you  that 
this  generation  means  deterioration  for 
every  woman  in  it.  but  this  article 
shows  it  to  be  much  worse  than  I 
thought.  It  actually  recommends  the 
setting  up  of  public  kitchens  in  every 
block  or  two  in  the  cities.  If  they 
take  cooking  from  women,  what  will 
be  left  to  them  ?  " 

"It  will  be  a  most  merciful  dispen- 
sation for  the  public  if  they  do,"  said 
the  younger  man.  "  We  are  the  worst- 
fed  nation  in  existence,  and  no  woman, 
except  a  Southern  negro,  can  cook  any- 
way. '  God  sends  meat  and  the  devil 
sends'  —  women  'cooks.'  What  is  to 
be  done  scientifically  must  be  done  by 
a  man." 

11  That  may  be  true  enough  from  one 
point  of  view."  returned  the  old  gentle- 
man after  a  moment  of  consideration. 
"  But  it's  the  woman's  business  to 
cook,  and  this  preposterous  proposi- 
tion puts  it  farther  and  farther  away 
from  her.     Thev  have  lost  all  sense  of 


duty.  In  short,  we  are  going  to  the 
dogs." 

Unfortunately,  there  was  no  further 
chance  of  hearing  the  grounds  for 
these  conclusions,  since,  at  this  point, 
Kansas  City  claimed  the  pair,  who 
made  their  way  out  into  the  grimy 
station  and  were  lost  in  the  crowd  of 
humanity  waiting  patiently,  or  impa- 
tiently, as  temperament  determined. 

But  the  old  gentleman  had  voiced 
an  opinion  that  is  found  almost  as  ac- 
tively in  possession  of  much  more  lib- 
eral minds, —  the  conviction  that  once 
more  the  home  is  threatened  with  ex- 
tinction. Times  have  changed  ;  condi- 
tions of  every  order  affecting  the  home 
have  altered  so  absolutely  that  not  a 
grandmother  of  the  past  would  feel 
that  the  life  of  woman  could  be  lived 
in  any  sense  that  her  own  had  known. 
Yet  the  sociologic  student  knows  that 
deep  meaning  is  bound  up  in  this  fact, 
and  welcomes  the  public  kitchen  as 
one  great  means  of  betterment  for. 
first,  and  most  of  all.  the  great  mass 
of  daily  toilers, — the  mass  for  whom 
the  German  public  kitchens  first  be- 
gan their  work. 

Thus,  while  opponents,  like  the  pair 
who  sneered  at  a  matter  of  which  they 
knew  nothing,  are  likely  to  protest 
against  the  coming  of  this  or  any 
new  departure  from  established  meth- 
ods, it  is  certain  that  their  voices  will 
presently  be  lost  in  the  song  of  de- 
liverance already  arising  from  the  few, 
and  in  time  to  swell  into  a  universal 
chorus,  —  the  rejoicing  of  the  ill-fed 
worker,  of  the  growing  child  who  has 


u8 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


shared  the  school  lunch,  of  the  weary 
shop  girl  underfed  and  devitalized,  of 
the  more  weary  working  mother,  with 
no  time  for  the  processes  of  the  tene- 
ment-house kitchen. 

It  is  for  such  workers  that  the  move- 
ment has  been  begun,  the  New  England 
Kitchen  of  Boston  being  the  first  prac- 
tical demonstration  for  this  country. 
But  years  before  its  establishment  the 
thought  had  worked  itself  out  in  France 
and  Germany  and  Holland.  The  French 
Fourneau  Economiqice,  the  German  Volks 
Kiiche,  have  shown  us,  and  in  steadily 
increasing  measure,  that  for  the  poor- 
est dwellers  in  the  slums,  as  well  as  for 
workers  on  what  we  know  as  the  "  sub- 
sistence wage,"  savory,  substantial  food 
can  be  furnished  by  these  kitchens  at  a 
price  well  below  that  at  which  it  would 
be  possible  to  prepare  it  at  home. 
Throngs  of  people  flock  to  them,  and 
though  the  surroundings  and  appoint- 
ments are  so  poor  that  an  American 
workman  would  most  probably  scorn 
both,  he  would  not,  and  could  not, 
scorn  the  clean,  savory,  well-prepared 
meals  they  offer,  at  the  cost  of  but  a 
few  cents. 

The  European  worker  has  a  smaller 
wage  than  the  American,  but  he  is  in- 
finitely better  fed.  Our  consular  re- 
ports furnish  a  series  of  observations 
on  this  point,  full  of  instruction  for  the 
reader,  and  they  hold  testimony  that 
makes  seriously  against  us.  They 
prove  that  the  French,  or  German,  or 
Italian  peasant  is,  even  with  his  scan- 
tier meal,  more  really  nourished  than 
our  own  workers.  They  have  an  in- 
stinct for  flavor  and  combination, —  a 
genius  for  salads,  using  in  them  ma- 
terials our  farmer's  wife  thinks  fit 
only  for  the  pigs  ;  and  they  have  recog- 
nized national  dishes,  which  the  public 


kitchen  makes  a  business  to  provide 
for  them. 

The  "  workman's  dinner-pail  "  has 
excited  the  interest  of  philanthropists 
no  less  than  the  inadequate  lunch  of 
the  school  children,  and  the  working- 
girl  in  shop  or  factory,  who  selects 
cream  puffs  or  a  five-cent  pie  as 
the  best  investment  of  her  money. 
Cheap  restaurants  supply  cheap  chops 
and  steaks,  but  the  standard  of  cook- 
ing is  so  low  that  a  general  knowledge 
of  good  cooking  is  practically  ren- 
dered impossible. 

This  is  for  the  American.  All  other 
nations  have  national  dishes  not  con- 
fined to  certain  localities,  as  with  us, 
but  universal,  and  thus  the  problem  of 
catering  is,  at  once,  reduced  to  its  low- 
est terms.  There  is  among  the  poor, 
especially  of  our  own  country,  a  rooted 
antipathy  to  trying  a  new  dish.  All 
countries  are  alike  in  believing  their 
own  cuisine  the  best,  and  this  forms 
one  of  the  most  serious  difficulties  in 
the  establishment  of  public  kitchens  in 
our  cities.  The  story  of  the  New  Eng- 
land Kitchen  is  a  record  of  years  of 
patient  experiment,  with  final  success 
in  a  mixed  neighborhood.  The  man 
or  woman  who  is  educated  and  culti- 
vated, and  has  travelled,  comes  in  time 
to  own  a  cosmopolitan  palate.  The 
immigrant  is  rigidly  limited,  and  re- 
mains so  till  cajoled  into  trying  the 
new  combinations. 

Absolutely  scientific  methods  mark 
all  the  work  abroad,  and  this  is  true  of 
our  own  work  in  Boston.  But  the  work 
delays  in  spite  of  more  and  more  con- 
viction of  its  need,  and  it  would  seem 
that  a  general  movement  is  needed, —  a 
municipal  one,  it  may  be,  since  in  Glas- 
gow—  our  object  lesson  in  a  hundred 
ways — the   numerous   public  kitchens 


THE   BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL   MAGAZIXE. 


II9 


are  under  successful  municipal  control. 
We  have  found  that  in  any  work  at- 
tempted here  three  things  are  neces- 
sary, and  Mrs.  Abel  has  summed  them 
up  :  u  We  have,  then,  three  kinds  of 
work  for  public  kitchens  :  the  sale  of 
foods,  the  gathering  of  facts  regarding 
the  food  habits  of  a  community,  and 
the  education  that  may  effect  a  slow 
elevation  of  the  common  standard  for 
healthful  and  nourishing  food." 

A  step  forward  has  been  taken  in 
the  recent  passage  by  Congress  of  a 
bill  for  the  establishment  of  a  depart- 
ment of  investigation  and  experiment 
in  foods,  in  connection  with  the  Bureau 
of  Agriculture.  Food  laboratories  are 
a  necessity.  Really,  we  should  call 
them  Rumford  Food  Laboratories, 
since  the  work  abroad,  notably  in 
Germany,  began  with  Count  Rumford, 
an  American,  who,  as  plain  Benjamin 
Thompson,  began  his  work  a  hundred 
years  ago.  receiving  knighthood  as  his 
reward.  At  all  points  the  needs  are 
practically  the  same  and  can  be  summed 
up  under  four  heads,  from  each  one  of 
which  the  intelligent  reader  is  likely  to 
draw  his  own  inferences. 

-First.  The  superintendence  of 
trained  scientists,  who  shall  be  able 
to  draw  on  the  stored  knowledge  of 
laboratory  investigators  and  to  direct 
original  research  on  new  lines. 

"  Second.  The  assistance  of  those 
who  are  practised  in  the  science  of 
cookery,  as  now  understood,  and  who 
have  the  intelligence  necessary  for 
working  out  new  problems. 

"  Third.  Business  experience  to  take 
the  results  gained  thus,  and  bring  them 
to  the  use  of  the  general  public. 

••Fourth.     The   assistance   of   those 


who  have  faith  in  this  means  of  doing 
a  great  good  to  the  public,  and  who 
are  willing  to  endow  it  or  furnish  suf- 
ficient money  for  its  trial  steps."' 

These  are  the  four  essentials.  It 
might  be  well  to  add  that  faith  is 
equally  necessary, — faith  that  the  mak- 
ing better  cooking  universal  will  in  no 
wise  destroy  the  home,  but,  on  the 
contrary,  give  it  a  better  foundation 
for  health  and  happiness  than  it  has 
ever  known.  She  who  likes  to  cook 
and  knows  how  —  and  the  two  are  apt 
to  be  synonymous  —  will  not  be  driven 
from  her  chosen  field.  She  who  does 
not  and  cannot  learn  —  and  there  are 
myriads  of  this  order  —  will  be  de- 
livered from  some  of  the  worst  results 
of  her   ignorance. 

In  the  nature  of  things,  the  move- 
ment will  work  first  in  cities,  and 
where  population  is  densely  massed, 
but  presently  the  towns  and  vil- 
lages are  to  share  all  the  benefits  in- 
volved. Food  bought  and  prepared  by 
the  individual  worker  consumes  a  large 
part  of  the  average  wage  ;  bought  by 
wholesale  and  prepared  scientifically 
means  lessening  this  cost  one-half  or 
more.  In  other  words,  it  will  leave  a 
little  margin  for  expenditure  outside 
the  bare  necessities  of  life.  Presently 
the  worker  will  discover  this  and  take 
a  first  lesson  in  co-operation,  since  it 
is  business  co-operation  that  renders 
lower  prices  possible.  The  cooking- 
school  will  have  no  less  to  do  ;  in 
fact,  it  will  have  more,  for  the  whole 
country  is.  in  time,  to  know  what  good 
cookery  means,  and  demand  it  at  all 
points.  A  knowledge  of  foods  and 
the  laws  of  nutrition  is  to  be  the 
common  property  of  all. 


120 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


ENGLISH  FRUIT  SALADS, 

By  Miss  G.  Hamlin. 


An  English  fruit  salad  is  a  manifes- 
tation as  typical  of  the  English  race 
as  the  marvellous  dress  of  an  English 
woman  un vexed  by  French  fashions 
and  undisturbed  by  American  innova- 
tions ;  for  it  blends  good  things  with 
calm  disregard  for  precedent  and  for- 
eign notions  of  fitness,  and  it  produces 
results  equally  characteristic  and  star- 
tling. Seldom  having  fear  of  the  tee- 
totaler before  her  eyes,  the  English 
cook  heightens  fruit  flavors  with  wine  ; 
and  at  the  ladies'  clubs,  where  the 
salads  are  often  concocted  by  the  mem- 
bers, champagne  is  lavishly  employed. 

This  year,  rose  leaves  have  been  lav- 
ishly used,  and  a  dressing  of  Hungarian 
wine,  flavored  by  having  fresh  rose 
leaves  steeped  in  it,  has  been  thought 
a  suitable  finishing-touch  to  almost  any 
conceivable  mixture.  Peaches,  cut  in 
quarters  and  laid  in  champagne,  have 
been  garnished  with  floating  tea-rose 
petals;  and,  as  strawberries,  cherries, 
and  peaches  come  together  to  London 
town,  the  trio  have  sometimes  been 
blended  in  this  salad.  A  substitution 
of  nectarine  for  the  peach,  or  a  change 
in  wine,  alters  the  character  of  this 
dish  ;  and  another  variation  may  be 
produced  by  piling  whipped  cream 
upon  it.  The  cream  itself  is  often 
rose-scented,  the  petals  being  mixed 
with  it,  for  a  little  time,  and  then  re- 
moved. A  glorified  form  of  straw- 
berries and  cream  is  produced  by  pour- 
ing this  cream  over  strawberries  thickly 
sprinkled  with  sugar,  and  setting  the 
glass  bowl  containing  the  mixture  in  ice. 

These,  however,  are  but  tame  dishes 


compared  with  the  wild  results  when 
foreign  fruits  and  nuts  are  used.  Melon, 
stewed  for  a  minute  in  Spanish  vin 
ordinai?'e,  is  iced,  and  strewn  with  wal- 
nuts or  hazelnuts  and  powdered  sugar, 
with  perhaps  a  few  grapes  dotted  here 
and  there.  Figs  are  stewed  in  grape 
juice  or  in  its  equivalent,  diluted  grape 
jelly,  and  blanched  almonds  are  added 
to  the  dish  before  it  comes  to  the  table. 
Blanched  almonds  are  combined  with 
early  pears,  drenched  in  white  wine  and 
sugar  after  being  quartered.  Chestnuts, 
slowly  boiled  in  currant  or  raspberry 
syrup,  are  mixed  with  figs  soaked  in 
white  wine.  Pineapple,  cut  in  cubes, 
with  a  dressing  of  raspberry  or  currant 
syrup,  added  when  at  the  boiling-point, 
is  served  with  filberts,  hazelnuts  or 
almonds.  The  kernels  of  peach,  apri- 
cot, and  plum  stones  are  blanched  and 
laid  in  the  fruit  syrup  to  give  it  a  finer 
flavor. 

Bananas  are  treated  with  hot  fruit 
syrup,  and  powdered  with  pounded 
nuts ;  and,  for  those  who  like  variation 
from  the  sweet  to  the  savory,  bananas 
and  tomatoes  are  mixed,  sprinkled  with 
cayenne  pepper,  and  dressed  with  salted 
fresh  cream.  Salted  cream  is  served 
with  ripe  figs  soaked  in  red  currant 
juice. 

And  these  things  are  but  the  begin- 
ing.  It  is  no  great  stretch  of  imagina- 
tion to  fancy  that  both  cooks  and  ladies 
make  lists  of  all  the  fruits  and  nuts  in 
the  market  and  cast  lots  to  decide  what 
shall  go  into  the  salad  for  the  day. 
The  use  of  boiling  syrup  seems  rather 
sinful,  for    it    must    break    down   the 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


121 


structure  of  the  fruit  and  destroy  much 
of  its  characteristic  flavor;  but,  on  the 
other  hand,  if  the  fruit  be  not  quite  ripe, 
or  in  the  least  woody,  it  will  be  all  the 
better  for  a  little  softening  of  its  fibre. 
But  does  not  that  mixture  of  banana 
and  tomato,  cayene  pepper  and  cream, 
suggest  an  English  dowager  with  furs, 
laces,  satin,  and  diamonds, —  a  gather- 
ing of  costly  incongruities  brought  into 


tolerable  relation  by  the  undaunted 
courage  with  which  they  are  worn  ?  It 
suggests,  too,  that  some  courage  must 
be  needed  to  accept,  when  one  hears 
"  Fruit  salad"  pronounced  in  the  low, 
distinct  voice  of  a  well-trained  English 
maid,  and  looks  down  into  a  mixture 
of  the  products  of  three  continents, 
frigid  with  ice,  torrid  with  pepper,  and 
tempered  with  cream. 


DINNER  AT  THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL,  JUNE  15,  .1899. 
Reported  by  Eliza  W.  Buckingham. 


It  has  become  a  time-honored  cus- 
tom at  the  Boston  Cooking-School  to 
select  six  girls  of  the  Normal  Class  to 
serve  a  dinner  to  teachers  and  pupils 
near  the  close  of  the  school  year. 

The  dinner  girls  of  this  year,  though 
chosen  by  lot,  happened  to  be  a  very 
congenial  set,  and  worked  together  in 
perfect  accord.  After  carefully  study- 
ing the  latest  standard  works  on  cook- 
ery, the  following  menu,  as  the  best, 
perhaps,  in  point  of  quality,  after  con- 
sidering the  quantity  to  be  provided, 
was  decided  upon  :  — 

MENU. 

Bouillon.  Breadsticks. 

Barbecue  of  Fish.  Brownbread. 

Cucumbers. 

Roast  Beef.  Potato  Croquettes. 

Chicken  Timbales  with  Veloute  Sauce. 

Lettuce  Salad.      Rolls. 

Strawberry  Bombe  Glace.  Wafers. 

Cafe  Noir. 

Salted  Walnuts.     Strawberry  Bonbons. 

The  work,  as  well  as  the  responsibility, 

was  then   divided,  so  that  our  dinner 


might  be  bought,  cooked,  and  served 
with  as  little  confusion  as  in  any  well- 
regulated  household.  To  make  our 
dinner  the  most  attractive  function  of 
the  school  year  from  three  points  of 
view, —  looks,  taste,  and  manner  of  serv- 
ing, —  our  hostess,  cook,  and  waitress 
were  carefully  selected.  Of  the  others, 
two  were  assistants  to  the  cook  and  one 
assistant  to  the  waitress. 

After  the  work  was  planned  out  the 
next  step  was  to  buy  the  dinner.  Only 
five  dollars  was  given  us  with  which  to 
provide  a  dinner  for  thirty  persons  ;  to 
this  one  dollar  was  added,  when  it  was 
decided  that  several  ladies  interested  in 
the  School  were  also  to  be  our  guests. 
Even  with  the  extra  dollar  we  felt  that 
our  friends  would  go  home  hungry ;  but 
whatever  might  be  lacking  in  quantity 
we  determined  to  make  up  in  style. 

At  the  market  several  disappoint- 
ments befell  us.  Fresh  vegetables  and 
strawberries  had  risen  in  price  on  ac- 
count of  the  drought,  and  our  butcher 
cut  a  larger  piece  of  meat  than  we 
wanted  to  pay  for.  It  must  be  noted 
that  with    the    six    dollars    every   item 


J  2  2 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


except  the  fire  for  cooking  the  dinner 
had  to  be  provided.  We  bought  of  the 
School  such  small  quantities  of  season- 
ings and  flavorings  as  were  needed,  and 
we  were  allowed  also  to  hire  the  fat 
for  frying,  on  the  condition  that  it  be 
returned  well  clarified  and  fit  to  use 
again. 

On  the  afternoon  of  the  14th  of  June, 
having  been  given  the  use  of  one  of  the 
School  kitchens,  under  the  direction  of 
our  cook  the  dinner  was  prepared  as  far 
as  possible. 

On  the  15th  the  rooms  were  deco- 
rated with  ferns  and  roses,  and  the 
table  of  honor  in  the  office  was  laid  for 
eight  guests,  with  silver  and  china  that 
had  been  borrowed,  for  the  occasion,  of 
a  bride.  The  table  linen  had  been 
freshly  laundered  by  the  waitress. 

In  the  centre  of  the  table  were  white 
roses  ;  a  menu  card  and  a  red  rose  were 
at  each  plate.  Three  tables  for  the 
girls  were  laid  in  the  front  kitchen  with 
the  china  and  silver  (?)  of  the  School. 
These  tables,  also,  were  decorated  with 
roses. 

Though  presiding  over  a  table  at 
which  were  seated  the  president,  the 
secretary,  the  teachers  of  the  School 
and  the  officers  of  her  own  class,  —  all 
critical  guests,  —  our  hostess  felt  at  her 
ease  on  account  of  her  confidence  in  her 
corps  of  assistants.  She  knew  that  the 
table  had  been  laid  in  the  most  approved 
style,  that  the  cooking  had  been  super- 
intended by  the  best  cook  in  the  class, 
and  that  the  waitress,  though  inexpe- 
rienced, understood,  from  her  note- 
book, how  to  serve  a  dinner  to  perfec- 
tion. 

The  guests  as  well  as  the  girls  of  the 
class  praised  the  dinner,  and  the  girls 
as  well  as  the  guests  insisted  that  they 


had  had  plenty  to  eat.  Let  us  state  this, 
as  a  fact,  pointedly,  since  scepticism 
is  wont  to  be  shown,  especially  con- 
cerning the  quantity  of  food  provided, 
when  menus  of  dinners  gotten  up  for  a 
limited  amount  of  money  are  published. 
We  will  add,  too.  that,  though  the 
crackers  and  cheese  were  left  out  of  the 
menu  for  fear  of  shortness  of  funds,  yet. 
to  counterbalance  this,  some  beef  was 
left  over,  which  was  sold  at  auction,  thus 
enabling  us  to  pay  the  expressage  on 
the  borrowed  china. 

ITEMS    AND  COST. 

6  pounds  of  beef  for  soup      .     .     .  S0.36 

Vegetables  for  soup 02 

9  pounds  of  beef 1.35 

S  pounds  of  fish .40 

4  pounds  of  chicken .60 

1  quart  of  potatoes .05 

4  cucumbers .22 

3  heads  of  lettuce .12 

Parsley .03 

Radishes .05 

2  lemons .03 

4  boxes  of  strawberries 53 

1  pint  of  cream .25 

3  pints  of  milk .09 

4-  a  dozen  of  eggs .oS 

i£  yeastcakes 03 

1-  a  pound  of  butter 11 

3  pounds  of  flour .12 

±  a  cup  of  vinegar 02 

i  a  cup  of  molasses 02 

£  a  box  of  gelatine 03 

i  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar     .     .         .05 

i£  pounds  of  sugar 08 

I  a  pint  of  olive  oil .15 

$  a  pound  of  walnuts .30 

±  a  pound  of  coffee .iS 

£  a  can  of  tomatoes .03 

Vanilla  \ 

Pepper  £ 03 

Salt        ) 

100  pounds  of  ice .20 

Rock  salt 15 

Fat  for  frying 10 

$5.78 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


123 


SELECTED  VERSE. 


TO    THE    FRINGED    GENTIAN. 

Thou  blossom  bright  with  autumn  dew, 
And  colored  with  the  heaven's  own  blue, 
That  openest  when  the  quiet  light 
Succeeds  the  keen  and  frosty  night. 

Thou  comest  not  when  violets  lean 

O'er  wandering  brooks  and  springs  unseen, 

Or  columbines,  in  purple  dressed, 

Nod  o'er  the  ground-bird's  hidden  nest. 

Thou  waitest  late  and  com'st  alone, 
When  woods  are  bare  and  birds  are  flown, 
And  frosts  and  shortening  days  portend 
The  aged  year  is  near  his  end. 

Then  doth  thy  sweet  and  quiet  eye 
Look  through  its  fringes  to  the  sky ; 
Blue  —  blue  —  as  if  that  sky  let  fall 
A  flower  from  its  cerulean  wall. 

I  would  that  thus,  when  I  shall  see 
The  hour  of  death  draw  near  to  me, 
Hope,  blossoming  within  my  heart, 
May  look  to  heaven  as  I  depart. 

—  Bryant. 


THE    KNEELING    CAMEL. 

The  camel  at  the  close  of  day 

Kneels  down  upon  the  sandy  plain 

To  have  his  burden  lifted  off, 
And  rest  to  gain. 

My  soul,  thou  too  shouldst  to  thy  knees, 
When  daylight  draweth  to  a  close, 

And  let  thy  Master  lift  thy  load, 
And  grant  repose. 

Else  how  canst  thou  to-morrow  meet, 
With  all  to-morrow's  work  to  do, 

If  thou  thy  burden  all  the  night 
Dost  carry  through  ? 

The  camel  kneels  at  break  of  day 
To  have  his  guide  replace  his  load ; 

Then  rises  up  anew  to  take 
The  desert  road. 

So  thou  shouldst  kneel  at  morning's  dawn, 
That  God  may  give  thee  daily  care, 

Assured  that  He  no  load  too  great 
Will  make  thee  bear. 

—  Anna  Temple. 


A    CHEERFUL    GIVER. 

Two  little  boys  dropped  in  from  play 

At  their  grandfather's  house,  one  winter  day, 

Smiled  at  the  apples  that  grandmother  brought 

them, 
And  spoke  their  thanks,  as  their  mother  had 

taught  them; 
But  little  Will  glanced  at  his  apple,  dear  lad, 
And  saw  that  'twas  finer  than  that  Dan  had, 
So,  quick  as  a  wink,  he  turned  to  his  brother, 
WTith,  "  Take   this  one,  Danny,  and  I'll  take 

the  other." 

"  All  right,"  said  Dan,  and  away  the  boys  went, 
Each  one  with  his  treasure  well  content, 
While,  with  never  a  thought  of  regret  or  pride, 
Unconscious  quite  and  satisfied, 
Will  buried  his  teeth  in  the  coarser  skin, 
Happy  and  warm  his  soul  within, 
Enjoying  Dan's  apple,  the  kind  little  elf  1 
Because  Dan  had  it  and  not  himself. 

Ah,  laddie,  would  we  were  all  like  you, 
Loving  and  generous  through  and  through ; 
Not  waiting  to  measure   how   much    we    can 

spare 
When  called  to  add  to  our  brother's  share, 
Not  pleased  with  ourselves  or  with  our  giving, 
Nor  taking  delight  in  our  own  good  living, 
But,  aglow  with  the  love  of  our  neighbors,  find 
Our  joy  in  the  joy  of  all  mankind. 

—  Martha  Burr  Banks,  in  "  The  Outlook." 


FAME. 


The  birds  sing  sweetest  in  the  deepest  glade, 

Untrodden  paths  invite  the  fairest  flowers, 
The  roughest  stone  the  purest  gem  has  made, 

The  faintest  star  could  swing  this  world  of 
ours. 
Ambition  has  no  home  in  gilded  halls, 

Fame  comes  at  last  to  those  who've  sorest 
wept, 
A  sage  may  dwell  within  a  hovel's  walls, 

The  King  of  kings  first  in  a  manger  slept. 
Heed  not  a  lowly  birth  and  humble  home  — 

The  sails  ne'er  feel  the  breeze  until  unfurled, 
The  flame  of  genius  flutters  on  unknown, 

Then  meteor-like  illumines  all  the  world. 
—  Ainslee's  Magazine. 


i-4 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZEYE. 


ZTbe   Boston  CooIuiu>5cbool 
Corporation. 

Established  1879.  Incorporated  1882. 

School:  ^72  Boylston  Street. 


BOARD  OF  MANAGERS,  1899- 

Mrs.  WM.  B.  SEWALL         -        -        -     President. 
Mrs.  STEPHEN   D.    BENNETT,   Vice-President. 


Assistants, 


EXECUTIVE  COMMITTEE. 

Mrs.  WM.  B.  SEWALL, 

Miss  ELLEN  M.  CHANDLER, 
Mrs.  ELLIOTT  RUSSELL, 
Mrs.  MOORFIELD  STOREY, 

Mrs.  LANGDON  SHANNON  DAVIS, 
Mrs.  WALTER  CHANNING. 

Mrs.  WINSLOW  WARREN. 
Miss  MINNA   TRAIN, 

Mrs.  EVERETT   MORSS. 
Mrs.  G.  E.  NILES.  Treasurer. 
Mrs.  EVERETT  MORSS,  Secretary. 
Principal,   Miss  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER. 
Miss  CHARLOTTE  JAMES  WILLS. 
.  Miss  MARIA  W.  HOWARD. 

Ube  Boston  Coofeing*5cbool 
/IDagasine, 

Of  Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics. 

PUBLISHED   BIMONTHLY. 

OFFICIAL     JOURNAL     OF     THE     BOSTON 

COOKING-SCHOOL   CORPORATION. 

Editor's  Address  :  J72  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

Publication  Office:  22  School  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 

JANET  McKENZIE  HILL  -  -  -  Editor. 
JOHN  F.  SPOFFORD  ....  Manager. 
ELLA  L.   BREED,    Advertising  Representative. 

Subscription   50   cts.    per    year.      Single    Copies 
10  cts. 

Advertising  rates  furnished  on  application. 

To  Subscribers. 

When  sending  notice  to  renew  subscription  or 
change  address,  please  give  the  old  address  as 
well  as  the  new. 

We  use  in  our  subscription  list  the  card 
index  system,  by  which  absolute  accuracy  is  se- 
cured ;  but  in  referring  to  an  original  entry  we 
must  know  the  name  as  it  was  formerly  giveu, 
together  with  the  Postoffice,  County,  State,  Post- 
office  Box,  or  Street  Number. 

Entered  at  Boston  Postoffice  as  second-class 
matter. 


A  boy  is  better  unborn  than  untaught. 
—  Gascoigne. 

"  Give  a  boy  address  and  accomplish- 
ments and  you  give  him  the  mastery  of 
palaces  and  fortunes  where  he  goes." 


THE  vacation  has  passed.  Schools 
■  have  opened,  and  business  has 
resumed  its  normal  course ;  in  brief, 
once  more  the  transition  from  play  to 
work  has  been  fairly  made.  At  this 
season  the  responsibility  of  the  house- 
keeper increases ;  her  duties  are 
multiplied. 

The  school  is  the  children's  place  of 
business.  Here  traits  are  developed 
and  elements  of  character  are  formed. 
The  parent  must  share  the  responsibility 
with  the  teacher,  that  the  children  may 
form  habits  of  punctuality  and  regular 
attendance,  prime  conditions  of  a  suc- 
cessful career  in  life. 

How  much  a  child's  disposition  and 
mental  activity  depend  on  the  quality 
of  his  food  and  the  regularity  of  his 
meals,  is  no  longer  questioned ;  and 
here  again  the  responsibility  rests 
chiefly  upon  the  mother.  In  the  eco- 
nomics of  life,  food  and  feeding  have 
become  factors  of  vital  importance. 
As  a  writer  on  "  The  Delightful  Art  of 
Cooking"  recently  said:  "The  na- 
tions which  have  produced  geniuses 
have  been  well-fed  nations.  The  an- 
cient Greeks  gave  their  primary  atten- 
tion to  the  body.  They  knew  that  a 
thrifty,  welj-nourished,  and  well-trained 
plant  brings  forth  blossoms." 

Then,  too,  as  the  season  advances, 
the  several  members  of  a  family  must 
pass  more  hours  indoors,  and  that  the 
house  be  kept  cleanly,  wholesome,  and 
inviting  only  adds  to  the  care  of  the 
housekeeper  as  well  as  to  her  pleas- 
ure. But,  to  say  nothing  of  toil  and 
money,  was  ever  a  thought,  or  care,  or 
earnest  effort  expended  on  the  home 
wasted  ? 

May  the  year's  effort  on  the  part  of 
many  a  housekeeper  result  in  making 
healthier,  happier,  and  better  homes  ! 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


125 


/~\F  the  Women's  Congress,  which 
^-^  was  held  in  London  a  few  weeks 
ago,  Food  and  Cookery  says  :  — 

It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  the  vital 
point  of  solving  the  domestic-servant  ques- 
tion has  scarcely  been  accomplished  in  a  man- 
ner expected  by  us  and  them.  It  is  a  problem, 
and  a  most  difficult  one,  which  housewives  in 
in  every  part  of  the  globe  have  to  face.  This 
subject  should,  we  think,  have  occupied  much 
more  attention  than  it  received.  One  would 
think  that  such  work  —  work  which  should  lay 
nearest  to  the  hands  of  women  —  would  have 
been  more  fully  dealt  with  on  such  occasions. 
From  the  reports  we  have  received,  it  seems 
that  other  subjects — less  important  to  our 
minds  —  received  far  more  attention.  Strangely 
enough,  cookery  was  scarcely  touched  upon 
at  this  conference ;  in  fact,  it  was  religiously 
avoided.  We  approached  the  council  some 
three  months  before  the  date  of  the  congress, 
and  pointed  out  that  cookery,  as  a  branch  of 
women's  vocation,  and  as  a  branch  of  women's 
education,  had  been  omitted  from  the  pro- 
gramme, and  asked  that  it  be  included.  We 
were,  however,  informed  that  it  would  not 
be  possible  to  include  cookery  as  a  special 
subject,  nor  could  the  committee  arrange  for 
a  paper  to  be  read  on  cookery. 

***** 

The  German  emperor  is  said  to  regard  the 
empress  as  an  ideal  woman,  and  this  is  what 
he  said  on  the  subject  not  so  very  long  ago  : 
"  I  can  wish  for  nothing  better  than  that  the 
women  of  Germany  should,  like  the  empress, 
devote  themselves  to  the  church,  their  children^ 
and  their  cooking" 

A  great  deal,  however,  was  said  at 
this  congress  about  domestic  -  science 
teaching,  and  systems  of  training  in  do- 
mestic science.  The  sentiment  seemed 
to  prevail  quite  extensively  that  train- 
ing in  cookery  and  domestic  subjects 
should  form  no  part  of  a  scheme  of 
general  education,  even  for  girls.  That 
is,  special  training  or  professional  skill 
in  any  line  or  calling  must  be  acquired 
at  special  schools  and  in  later  life. 

We  accept,  without  exception,  the 
need  and  place  of  the  technical  schools; 


but  this  does  not  provide  for  the  vast 
majority  of  girls  who  leave  school  at 
fourteen  or  sixteen  years  of  age,  to 
begin  life  with  no  chance  whatever  of 
any  training  in  domestic  subjects.  In- 
deed, the  age  has  passed  in  which  it 
was  thought  that  girls  needed  less 
learning  or  training  than  boys;  but  the 
time  is  at  hand  when,  in  the  general 
curricula  of  instruction  for  both  sexes, 
a  point  will  be  reached  where  each 
will  begin  to  pursue  courses  along  sep- 
arate lines.  At  present,  however,  that 
point  does  not  seem  to  be  well  defined. 
The  age  demands,  not  less  training,  but 
more  distinctive  training,  to  fit  girls  for 
the  station  in  life  they  are  destined  to 
occupy.  The  standard  of  all  work  per- 
taining to  home  life  must  be  raised. 

At  this  same  congress  one  speaker 
is  reported  as  saying  that  "  teachers 
of  the  domestic  arts  abound,  but  the 
majority  of  these  teachers  still  cling  to 
the  idea  that  it  is  more  genteel  to 
teach  than  to  work;  that  the  dignity 
of  labor  and  the  joys  of  serving  are 
two  distinct  vocations,  each  of  which 
will  be  recognized  as  distinct  careers 
by  a  future  generation." 


THE  girl  of  the  period  is  certainly 
*  receiving  a  great  deal  of  attention. 
She  has  her  censors  and  her  admirers. 
What  the  up-to-date  girl  wears,  her 
fancies  and  her  foibles,  how  she  poses, 
and  what  she  reads,  are  everywhere 
subjects  of  endless  comment  and  con- 
cern. Not  only  the  novel  of  the  day, 
but  periodical  literature  and  the  daily 
press  teem  with  narration  and  descrip- 
tion of  the  ways  and  wiles  of  the  girl 
of  the  age.  She  is,  indeed,  a  favorite 
topic  of  uncontrollable  discussion. 

The  contrast,  no  doubt,  between  the 
girl  of  this  generation  and  her  proto- 


26 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


type  of  past  generations  is  great ;  still, 
it  must  be  confessed,  the  girls  of  each 
succeeding  age  have  attained  no  less, 
and  been  no  less  worthy  of  admiration 
and  esteem,  than  have  those  of  the  by- 
gone age.  Like  honor  will  eventually 
be  conferred  upon  the  girl  of  this  era. 

However,  in  apparent  contradiction, 
concerning  the  young  woman  of  this 
century's  end,  an  Englishwoman,  writer 
and  physician,  says  :  — 

She  no  longer  preserves  and  brews.  She 
no  longer  weaves  and  fashions.  Her  children 
are  nursed,  fed,  clothed,  taught,  and  trained 
by  hirelings ;  her  sick  are  tended  by  the  pro- 
fessional nurse,  her  guests  are  entertained  by 
paid  performers.  What  truly  remains  which 
may  be  called  her  duties  ?  What  is  left  to 
her,  indeed,  but  boredom  ? 

And  yet,  now  as  in  the  past,  women 
are  known  by  their  homes.  Never 
has  it  been  more  important  to  be  a 
good  housekeeper,  or  home-maker,  than 
at  the  present  time.  And  in  our  mod- 
ern houses,  with  their  many  improve- 
ments and  conveniences,  it  is  no  longer 
necessary  for  any  woman  to  overwork. 
To  be  a  good  housekeeper  does  not 
imply  that  one  must  sacrifice  health 
and  happiness.  As  some  one  has  well 
said,  "  it  is  overwork  and  poor  house- 
keeping that  undermine  the  constitu- 
tion, and  destroy  the  peace  and  har- 
mony of  the  home.  The  wise  woman 
will  devote  her  first  interest  in  seeing 
that  her  home  is  well  ordered." 

And,  to-day,  in  matters  that  pertain 
to  the  girl  of  the  period,  nothing  is 
so  much  talked  about  as  the  mode  and 
manner  of  her  education  and  training ; 
and  whatever  may  be  the  course  she 
pursues,  the  trend  of  thought  is  for  a 
more  efficient  and  thorough  knowledge 
of  every  subject.  In  training  for  life, 
should  not  the  purpose  to  become  a 
proficient    home-maker  be  placed  first 


on  the  list  of  every  young  woman's 
accomplishments?  "No  preparation 
of  mind  can  be  too  great  to  elaborate 
the  talent  of  the  perfect  cook.  What 
education  can  be  '  higher '  than  a 
knowledge  of  the  laws  of  healthy  life, 
and  how  to  feed  it  scientificallv ?  '* 


T  X  the  Xew  England  Grocer  of  Sep- 
tember 15.  a  writer,  who  has  pretty 
definite  and  decisive  views  on  food, 
food  standards,  expositions,  etc.,  makes 
the  following  appeal  to  the  grocers' 
associations  of  the  land  :  — 

During  the  past  ten  years,  food  expositions 
have  developed  a  species  of  authority  in  cook- 
ing known  as  self-appointed  subsidized  agents 
of  food  manufacturers.  They  have  supplanted 
many  of  the  recognized  teachers  of  cookery 
who  were  formerly  employed  to  teach  and 
demonstrate  at  our  food  expositions.  They 
are  generally  unknown  to  the  public,  carry  no 
credentials  from  any  of  our  cooking-schools, 
and  are  soon  destined  to  destroy  any  influence 
our  food  expositions  may  have  possessed  as 
an  educating  force. 

The  federated  grocers  should  not  allow 
this  disintegrating  influence  to  continue.  A 
union  of  forces  between  our  standard  cooking- 
schools  and  our  grocers'  associations  ought  to 
secure  properly  accredited  teachers  of  cookery 
for  our  food  expositions. 

The  development  of  household  economics 
should  find  in  ©ur  grocers'  associations  earnest 
co-workers.  Unless  this  is  done,  the  control 
of  our  food  expositions  will  pass  out  of  the 
hands  of  the  organized  grocer,  and  he  will  find 
himself  supplanted  by  more  intelligent  ex- 
ponents of  food  sanitation.  We  appeal  to 
our  grocers'  associations  to  unite  forces  with 
the  cooking  -  school,  the  public  school,  the 
boards  of  health  —  in  a  word,  control  the  situ- 
ation and  become  the  recognized  authority  in 
the  State  on  food.  The  opportunity,  duty  and 
privilege  is  theirs  of  making  these  food  expo- 
sitions practically  State-endorsed  affairs.  An 
enlightened  public  opinion  will  soon  demand 
this.  When  nearly  half  a  million  people  will 
attend  a  food  exposition,  it  becomes,  practi- 
cally, a  public  institution. 

Our  food  expositions  have  ceased  to  become 
expositions,  and  are  only  advertising  shows. 
As  such  they  are  legitimate,  but  not  adequate. 


After=Breakfast  Chat 


Forgive  me  for  nagging;   I'm  but  a  woman." —  Charles  Read'e. 


A  few  weeks  ago  the  city  streets 
were  filled  with  ruddy  -  faced  men, 
women,  and  children  returning  from  a 
longer  or  shorter  sojourn  among  the 
mountains  or  by  the  sea.  All  were 
merry  and  in  good  spirits,  for  the  joy- 
ous vacation  days  had  brought  health 
and  strength  to  them. 

The  once-tired  housemother,  freed 
from  the  responsibilities  of  the  home, 
and  at  leisure  to  breathe  in  the  pure 
country  air,  at  will,  has  ceased  to  look 
upon  the  children's  sins  of  omission 
and  Commission  in  the  same  morbid 
spirit  as  she  had  done  two  months  be- 
fore, and  is  now  full  of  hope  and  good 
resolutions  for  the  coming  year.  For 
the  nonce  she  thinks  that  in  the  future 
the  children  are  to  be  "washed,  clothed, 
and  set  upon  end  "  without  friction  and 
nagging.  The  household  machinery 
in  general  is  to  run  like  clockwork, 
because  nothing  —  no,  not  even  if  the 
heavens  or  china  fall  —  is  to  disturb 
the  even  tranquility  of  her  spirit ;  for 
is  not  good  humor  contagious  ?  and  is 
not  nagging  communicable  at  sound  of 
voice  ? 

But  those  brief  days  are  past,  and,  as 
of  old,  it  is  the  little  leaks  in  the 
kitchen,  the  non-performance  in  the 
nursery  of  the  "  minor  moralities,"  — 
the  observance  of  which  is  absolutely 
essential,  if  human  beings  are  to  be 
endurable  to  one  another,  —  that  bring 
on  again  the  old  habit  of  nagging ;  for, 
whether  we  wish  to  or  not,  do  we  not, 


at  times,  nag  continually  about  these 
little  things  ?  There  is  a  place  for  le- 
gitimate fault-finding,  but  let  us  not  for- 
get to  praise  whenever  we  can.  Why 
spoil  a  child's  day  by  nagging  him  into 
a  condition  in  which  little  or  no  break- 
fast can  be  eaten,  or,  if  eaten,  it  must 
be  ill  digested  ?  Why  chide  or  upbraid 
him  at  this  critical  hour  for  his  per- 
sonal appearance,  unless  it  be  too  bad  ? 
Most  grown  people,  indeed,  find  the 
daily  routine  of  dressing  for  breakfast 
an  irksome  task  enough,  though  they 
are  able  to  brace  themselves  for  the 
effort  by  the  philosophy  of  years. 

We  know  that  "  the  soil  in  green- 
houses is  so  highly  cultivated  that 
never  a  weed  shows  its  head  there," 
and  we  realize  that,  if  there  be  "ca- 
pacity for  culture  in  the  blood,"  — 
though,  to  a  great  extent,  qualities  of 
mind  and  outward  bearing  are  depen- 
dent upon  circumstances  which  have 
long  since  been  beyond  our  control,  — 
a  child's  mind  and  manners  may  be 
cultivated  to  a  similar  extent ;  but  the 
end  will  never  be  attained  by  nagging. 
You  get  what  you  give. 


There  are  more  ways  than  one  of 
nagging,  and  the  habit  is  not. restricted 
to  women  alone ;  in  fact,  it  is  only  the 
women,  who  shut  themselves  away  from 
fresh  air  and  grow  morbid  over  their 
duties,  who  are  addicted  to  the  habit 
at  all. 

To  the    extensive    use   of  the    tele- 


128 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


phone  is  due,  in  part,  the  increase  of 
this  infectious  nuisance  among  men. 
In  discussing  business  affairs,  day  after 
day,  men  will  repeat  over  the  telephone 
things  they  would  not  dream  of  saying 
when  face  to  face  with  each  other ; 
and,  though  men  do  not  take  these 
things  to  heart  as  many  a  woman  would 
do.  still  the  law  of  compensation  holds 
good  here  as  elsewhere.  The  more  one 
nags  the  more  he  is  impelled  to  nag, 
and  the  more  others  nag  in  return ;  and 
all  this  constitutes  another  and  a  need- 
less factor  in  undermining  health,  even 
among  business  men. 

In  a  household,  the  observance  or 
non-observance  of  seemingly  trivial  but, 
in  the  aggregate,  really  important  mat- 
ters are  just  occasions  for  rebuke  ;  but 
let  us  put  ourselves  occasionally  in  the 
place  of  the  one  at  fault,  and  often  we 
will  do  no  better.  You  know  you 
should  not  throw  the  bits  of  refuse 
on  to  the  burning  coal,  or  the  tea  and 
coffee  grounds  into  the  sink ;  but  the 
proper  receptacle  is  not  at  hand,  and 
this  once  you  are  in  haste  and  will  do 
it.  Why  may  not  the  circumstances 
on  another  occasion  be  the  same  for 
Norah  ?  We  must  on  occasions  learn 
to  cultivate  a  little  blindness  and  deaf- 
ness, and  the  matter  will  not  annoy  us 
so  much,  if  we  refrain  from  speaking ; 
for  we  are  nagged  not  only  by  the  act 
itself,  but  by  the  emphasis  put  upon  it 
in  speaking.  For  the  constant  and  wil- 
ful disregard  of  instructions,  nagging 
is  of  no  avail ;  individual  cases  must  be 
treated  by  individual  measures. 

But,  after  all,  this  graceless  habit  is 
largely  a  matter  of  constitution  and 
health.  Anything  that  tends  to  keep 
the  stomach  and  nerves  in  a  well-bal- 
anced   condition    tends    also    to    the 


breaking-up  of  the  disorder,  for  disor- 
der it  is.  The  summer  outing,  the 
daily  hour  of  absolute  rest  and  soli- 
tude, and  plain,  wholesome  diet  are 
means  to  this  end  in  case  of  man, 
woman,  or  child. 


OUR    LIFE    MELODY. 

"There  is  no  music  in  a  rest,  but 
there  is  the  making  of  music  in  it." 
In  our  whole  life  melody,  the  music  is 
broken  off  here  and  there  by  "rests," 
and  we  foolishly  think  we  have  come 
to  the  end  of  time.  God  sends  a  time 
of  forced  leisure, —  sickness,  disap- 
pointed plans,  frustrated  efforts, —  and 
makes  a  sudden  pause  in  the  choral 
hymn  of  our  lives,  and  we  lament  that 
our  voices  must  be  silent,  and  our  part 
missing  in  the  music  which  ever  goes 
up  to  the  ear  of  the  Creator.  How 
does  the  musician  read  the  rest  ?  See 
him  beat  the  time  with  unvarying  count 
and  catch  up  the  next  note  true  and 
steady,  as  if  no  breaking  place  had 
come  in  between. 

Not  without  design  does  God  write 
the  music  of  our  lives.  Be  it  ours  to 
learn  the  time,  and  not  be  dismayed  at 
the  "rests."  They  are  not  to  be 
slurred  over,'  nor  to  be  omitted,  nor  to 
destroy  the  melody,  nor  to  change  the 
keynote.  If  we  look  up,  God  himself 
will  beat  the  time  for  us.  With  the 
eye  on  Him  we  shall  strike  the  next 
note  full  and  clear.  If  we  say  sadly 
to  ourselves,  "  There  is  no  music  in  a 
rest,"  let  us  not  forget  "  there  is  the 
making  of  music  in  it."  The  making 
of  music  is  often  a  slow  and  painful 
process  in  life.  How  patiently  God 
works  to  teach  us  !  How  long  he  waits 
for  us  to  learn  the  lesson  !  — John  Ras- 
kin. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


I  29 


ECONOMICAL  MENUS  FOR  ONE  WEEK  IN  OCTOBER. 


(Family  of  Ri 

Simple  diet  is  best  ;  for  many  dishes 

BREAKFAST,   .40. 

Corn-Meal  Mush,  Sweet  Apples,  Baked, 

Milk,  .08. 

Poached  Eggs  with  Celery,  .27. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 

DINNER,  .5!>. 

Potato  Soup,  J08. 

Beef  Olives,  .30.     Baked  Squash,  .06. 

Celery  Salad,  .02. 

Apples  a  la  Manhattan,  .10. 

Black  Coffee,  .03. 

SUB  PER,  .44. 

Brownbread  Sandwiches,  .05. 

Neufchatel  Cheese,  .10. 

Cider  Apple  Sauce,  .06. 
Cream  Sponge  Cake,  .17.     Cocoa,  .06. 


ve  Adults.) 

bring  many  diseases. — Pliny. 

BREAKFAST,  $1.02. 

Old  Gristmill  Rolled  Wheat,  Cream,  .08. 

Broiled  Ham,  .75.     Plain  Omelet,  .10. 

White  Hashed  Potatoes,  .04. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 

DINNER,  .78. 

Oyster  Stew,  Green-Tomato  Pickles,  .45. 
Cheese  Fondue,  .15. 

Pumpkin  Pie,  .15. 

Black  Coffee,  .03. 

SUPPER,  .17. 

Smoked  Beef,  .07. 

Baked  Potatoes,  .02. 

Dry  Toast,  .04. 
Tea,  .04. 


BREAKFAST,  .10. 

Beef  Olives  (reheated). 
Sliced  Tomatoes,  .03. 

Fried  Mush,  .02. 

Cereal  Coffee, 


.05. 


DINNER,   .46. 

Cream-of-Celery  Soup,  .05. 
Beans  Baked  with  Sausage,  .20. 
Beet  Salad,  .06. 

Brown  Betty,  .12. 

Black  Coffee,  .03. 

SUPPER,  .26. 

Cheese  Custard,  .12. 

Apple  Sauce,  .06. 

Cookies,  .04. 
Tea,  .04. 


BREAKFAST,  .31. 

.05.       Quaker  Oats,  Butter, 


OS- 


Grapes 
Eggs  Cooked  in  Shell,  .10. 

New  Rye-Meal  Muffins,  .06. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 

DINNER,  .40. 

Split-Pea  Soup,  Croutons,  .08. 

Baked  Ham,  Mustard,  .02. 

Escalloped  Potatoes,  .05. 

Stewed  Tomatoes,  .05. 

Cabbage  Salad,  .05. 

Stewed  Dates,  Cream,  .12. 

Black  Coffee,  .03. 

SUPPER,  .33. 

Toasted  Muffins.  Apple  Butter. 

Cottage  Cheese,  .10. 

Cream  Sponge  Cake,  .17.        Cocoa,  .06 


BREAKFAST,   .42. 

Wheatena,  with  Raisins,  Milk,  .08. 

Salt  Mackerel,  Broiled,  Hot  Cream,  .23^ 

Baked  Potatoes,  .02.  Dry  Toast,  .04. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 

DINNER,  .30. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup,  .10. 

Pressed  Beans  and  Sausage. 

Tomato  Salad,  .07. 

Tapioca-and-Cocoanut  Pudding,  .10. 

Black  Coffee,  .03. 

SUPPER,  .24. 

Brownbread  Milk  Toast,  .10. 

Baked  Sweet  Apples,  .05. 

Cottage  Cheese,  .05. 

.04. 


Tea, 


BREAKFAST,   .22. 

Vitos  with  Dates,  Cream,  .08. 

Cold  Baked  Ham,  Sliced  Thin. 

Horseradish,  .02.        Baked  Potatoes,  .02. 

Shredded-Wheat    Biscuit    Brownbread, 

Toasted,  .05. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 

DINNER,  .50. 

Salt  Codfish  Chowder,  .24. 

Cole-slaw,  .05.     Apple  Pie,  Cheese,  .18. 

Black  Coffee,  .03. 

SUPPER,   .27. 

Chopped- Ham  Sandwiches,  .04. 

Macaroni  in  Cream   Sauce,  with  Cheese, 

.08. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 

Hot  Baked  Apples,  Cream,  .10. 


BREAKFAST,  .31. 

Barley  Crystals,  Milk,  .06. 
Eggs    Scrambled    with 

Chopped  Ham,  .10. 
Potatoes  in  Cream  Sauce, 

.04. 

Quaker-Oats  Muffins,  .06. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 


DINNER,  .59. 

Cannelon  of  Beef,  Brown 

Sauce,  .29. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes,  .04. 

SUPPER,   .26. 

Mashed  Turnips,  .05. 

Frizzled  Beef,  Toast,  .12. 

Lettuce,  .06. 

Hominy  Balls,  Syrup,  .10 

Grape-Juice  Blanc-mange 

Tea,  .04. 

(Cornstarch), 

Cream,  .12. 

Black  Coffee,  .03. 

to 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


IN    REFERENCE    TO    ECONOMICAL   MENUS. 


As  a  nation  we  have  been  develop- 
ing a  new  land,  and  a  land  unusually 
rich  in  natural  resources.  In  our  early 
history  little  need  existed  to  practise 
economy  in  fuel  or  in  food-stuffs.  A 
man  of  energy,  who  made  the  most  of 
his  opportunities,  could  readily  supply 
a  family  with  the  means  of  comfort. 
If  he  were  able  to  push  his  means  to 
their  utmost,  comparative  affluence  was 
his  reward.  But.  as  the  years  have 
come  and  gone  since  the  ingathering 
of  the  first  harvests,  settlements  have 
changed  to  towns,  and  towns  to  cities ; 
the  wild  fowl  and  the  timid  deer  no 
longer  frequent  their  primitive  haunts  ; 
the  forests  have  disappeared,—  even 
the  coal  and  gas  hidden  in  the  inmost 
recesses  of  the  earth  have  been  drawn 
upon,  to  meet  the  requirements  of  an 
ever-increasing  population. —  until,  to- 
day, the  ways  and  means  of  gaining  a 
livelihood  seem  wellnigh  taxed  to  their 
utmost  limit. 

True,  the  development  of  a  nation's 
resources  brings  wealth  to  many ;  and 
this  land,  as  no  other,  perhaps,  has 
been  adorned  with  beautiful  and  com- 
fortable homes.  But  in  by  far  the 
larger  number  of  these  homes  the 
strictest  economy  must  be  observed  in 
the  management  of  household  affairs ; 
and.  as  a  rule,  the  practice  of  economy 
is  first  manifested  in  the  purchase  of 
food  supplies. 

This  thought  leads  us  to  remark 
that,  from  the  general  scope  of  the 
communications  received  by  us.  we 
fear  that  there  is  an  indistinct  idea  in 
the  minds  of  our  readers  as  to  just 
what  is  meant  by  economical  menus. 
With  all  due  regard  to  the  ideas  pro- 


mulgated by  our  vegetarian  friends, 
we  are  convinced  that,  though  in  time 
man  can  adapt  himself  to  almost  any 
kind  of  regimen,  he  is  best  developed, 
when  his  daily  dietary  is  varied,  and 
contains  such  proportions  of  the  five 
food  principles  as  are  demanded  by  his 
individual  manner  of  life.  All  know 
that  our  most  inexpensive  food  mate- 
rials are  composed  largely  of  starch  ; 
but  under  no  conditions  of  life  can  an 
individual  or  family  be  well  nourished 
on  sugar,  tine  flour,  and  shortening, 
even  though  these  be  transformed  in 
multitudinous  ways.  In  city  restau- 
rants or  homes  in  the  country,  where 
money  must  be  spent  economically, 
too  often  the  meals  consist  of  pie.  cake 
and  coffee. —  an  altogether  one-sided 
diet. 

Compare  the  potato  grown  in  low. 
wet  land,  and  that  of  the  same  seed 
planted  on  a  dry.  sandy  plot,  and  mark 
the  difference.  One  has  been  sup- 
plied with  the  elements  the  growing 
vegetable  needs:  the  other  has  had 
an  over-supply  of  at  least  one  ele- 
ment. The  agriculturist  resorts  to 
rotation  in  crops,  because  he  knows 
that  each  kind  of  vegetable  takes  from 
the  soil  the  elements  that  it  respec- 
tively needs,  and  the  land  is  thus  im- 
poverished, and  must  be  given  time  to 
recuperate  or  renew  these  special  ele- 
ments. 

If  the  food  of  a  dog  be  restricted  to 
starch  and  sugar,  blindness  quickly  fol- 
lows. If  we  restrict  the  dietary  of  a 
human  being  to  this  same  class  of  food, 
will  he  not  soon  require  the  services  of 
an  oculist?  The  much-abused  stomach 
does  not  always  show  its  ill  usage  wholly 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


!3! 


in  that  organ.  The  nerves  of  the  eyes 
are  closely  connected  with  the  nerves 
of  the  stomach,  and  the  one  reacts 
upon  the  other. 

Unwise,  it  seems,  is  the  economy 
that  would  limit  the  supplies  of  our 
tables  to  the  cheap  carbohydrates,  if 
such  a  course  be  the  cause,  as  it 
surely  is,  of  poor  health  and  a  doctor's 
bill.  By  all  means  let  us  economize 
by  making  use  of  the  necessary  protein 
in  its  (more)  inexpensive  forms.  In 
many  homes,  milk  might  be  more  gen- 
erously used, —  whole  milk,  if  possible, 
otherwise  skimmed  milk.  Adults  do 
not  require  a  large  amount  of  liquid 
food  ;  but  a  small  quantity  of  milk,  in 
the  form  of  cream  soups,  will  prove  of 
advantage  to  them,  and  be  almost  in- 
valuable to  growing  children. 

In  our  menus,  Monday  and  Tues- 
day, when  beans  and  sausage  are  the 
basis  of  the  dinner,  the  soup  given 
should  form  the  principal  dish  of  that 
meal  for  the  children.  Cheese  is  given 
frequently,  and  no  more  wholesome 
cheese  can  be  found  than  the  home- 
made cottage  cheese  made  of  thick 
sour  milk. 

As  the  menus  are  written,  the  cost 
of  feeding  five  people  for  the  week 
is  about  eight  dollars.  Still,  one  ex- 
pert in  the  knowledge  of  food  values 
might  cut  down  the  cost  a  little :  at  the 
same  time,  in  localities  where  milk  is 
seven  cents  a  quart,  an  advance  in  the 
cost  might  be  necessitated ;  and  yet 
milk  at  seven  cents  per  quart  is  a  cheap 
form  of  proteid. 

Every  leaf  of  the  celery  bought  for 
Sunday,  if  in  good  condition,  should 
be  used  for  some  purpose.  .  A  few  of 
the  green  leaves  may  be  set  aside  to 
garnish  the  pressed  beans  and  sausage ; 
the  remainder,  with  such  stalks  as  are 


not  suitable  for  the  salad,  or  to  serve 
in  the  cream  sauce  with  the  poached 
eggs,  may  be  used  as  the  basis  of  the 
celery  soup.  The  best  approved  way 
of  dressing  celery,  when  it  is  to  be 
served  as  a  relish,  is  to  remove  the 
coarse  outer  stalks,  cleanse  the  re- 
mainder carefully,  render  crisp  by  soak- 
ing in  ice  water,  to  which  a  slice  of 
lemon  has  been  added,  then  cut  the 
heads  down  through  the  root  into 
halves  or  quarters,  according  to  size. 
This  mode  of  serving  is  impossible 
when  the  heads  are  held  together  by 
nails,  but  the  best  growers  no  longer 
indulge  in  this  uncalled-for  waste  of 
product. 

Half  a  small  ham  may  be  bought  for 
baking,  Thursday ;  broil  a  thin  slice 
from  this  for  a  relish  with  the  omelet, 
Wednesday.  The  oyster  stew,  Wed- 
nesday, is  something  of  an  extrava- 
gance; for  its  food  value  is  small  in 
comparison  with  its  cost. 

At  this  season,  squash  is  one  of  the 
most  satisfactory  vegetables  in  the 
market.  Squash  is  usually  boiled,  but 
it  is  better  when  steamed  or  baked. 
When  it  is  steamed  or  boiled,  the  shell, 
cut  for  the  purpose  and  neatly  trimmed 
before  cooking,  so  that  it  may  present 
an  attractive  appearance,  may  be  used 
as  a  receptacle  for  the  cooked  vege- 
table. After  removing  the  cooked  pulp 
from  the  shell  mash  thoroughly,  season 
with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  reheat 
in  the  shell.  In  the  Middle  Atlantic 
States  the  variety  shown  in  the  half- 
tone is  found;  the  squash,  being  rather 
delicate  in  flavor,  is  very  much  better 
when  baked.  The  Hubbard  squash, 
as  also  other  varieties,  may  be  broken 
or  cut  into  small  pieces  without  remov- 
ing the  shell,  and  then  baked  as  pota- 
toes. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


Salt  Codfish    Chowder,  .24. 

Try  out  the  fat  from  one-fourth  a 
pound  of  bacon  or  fat  salt  pork  cut 
into  bits  ;  in  this  saute  two  onions,  cut 
in  rings,  to  a  golden  brown.  Pick  a 
pound  of  salt  codfish  into  small  pieces, 
rinse  in  cold  water,  drain,  cover  with 
cold  water,  and  set  on  the  back  of  the 
range  to  heat  but  not  to  boil.  In  about 
two  hours  add  a  scant  quart  of  pota- 
toes, pared  and  sliced,  and  a  dash  of 
pepper.  To  the  onions  and  pork  in 
the  frying-pan  add  a  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  strain  the  contents  over  the 
potatoes;  cook  until  the  potatoes  are 
tender,  then  add  one  cup,  each,  of 
scalded  cream  and  milk,  and  salt  and 
pepper  if  needed.  Put  six  or  eight 
crackers,  broken  into  halves,  in  a  serv- 
ing-dish, pour  over  these  the  chowder, 
and  serve. 

Beet  Salad,  .06. 

Cut  cold  boiled  beets  in  small  cubes  ; 
dress  one  pint  of  these  cubes  with 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  oil.  Mix  well 
and  dress  again  with  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  vinegar  in  which  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  has  been  dissolved. 
Beef  Olives,  .30. 

Trim  and  cut  in  thin  slices  (one- 
fourth  an  inch  thick)  one  pound  and  a 
half  of  beef  from  the  round  ;  cut  these 
into  strips  three  inches  wide  and  four 
inches  long.  Chop  the  best  of  the 
trimmings  very  fine ;  add  a  cup  of  fine 
bread  crumbs  stirred  into  one-third  a 
cup  of  melted  butter,  one  teaspoonful 
of  sweet  herbs,  or  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
onion  juice,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  pepper — also  the 
yolk  or  white  of  an  egg,  beaten  slightly. 
Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly  and 
spread  on  the  strips  of  beef;  roll  each 
strip,  tie  with  twine,  then  dredge  with 
flour.     Fry  one-fourth  a  pound  of  fat 


salt  pork  cut  into  bits  ;  in  the  fat  saute' 
the  olives  to  a  golden  brown,  then  re- 
move them  to  a  saucepan.  To  the  fat 
in  the  pan  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  and  when  smooth  and  frothy 
three  cups  of  water  or  stock,  gradually; 
let  boil,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  pour  over  the  olives  ;  cover,  and 
let  simmer  until  tender,  two  hours  or 
more.  Weak  stock  may  be  made  from 
the  trimmings  of  the  steak. 
Hominy  Balls,  .05. 

Shape  a  quart  of  boiled  hominy  into 
balls,  roll  in  sifted  crumbs,  then  dip 
in  an  egg,  beaten  and  diluted  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  and  again 
in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain 
on  soft  paper.  Serve  as  a  vegetable, 
or  with  syrup  as  a  dessert. 

Cream  Sfiouge  Cake,  .17. 

Sift  together  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a 
cup  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream- 
of-tartar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Break  two  eggs  into  a  cup,  fill  cup 
with  thick  cream  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
orange  extract,  turn  into  the  dry  mix- 
ture, and  beat  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a 
thick  loaf  or  in  a  large  sheet. 
Brown  Betty,  .12. 

Prepare ,  a  pint  of  juicy  apples  in 
slices.  Pass  stile  bread  through  a 
colander  to  fill  a  pint  measure,  and  stir 
into  one-third  a  cup  of  melted  butter. 
Put  a  layer  of  the  crumbs  into  a  but- 
tered pudding-dish,  and  above  this  a 
layer  of  the  apples,  sprinkling  with 
sugar,  a  little  cinnamon  (or  use  the 
grated  rind  and  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon),  and  a  few  grains  of  salt.  Al- 
ternate the  layers,  seasoning  as  before, 
till  the  materials  are  used,  having  a 
layer  of  bread  crumbs  on  the  top. 
Cover,  and  bake  slowly  about  half  an 
hour,  or  until  the  apple  is  tender. 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


*33 


Cfycmksgtpmc}  ^Henus. 


"  And  if  I  send  them  away  fasting  to  their  own  houses,  they  will  faint  by  the 
way;    for  divers  of  them  come  from  far." 


FAMILY  OF  THREE.  COST  OF  MATERIALS,  $2.00. 

"  Always  taking  out  of    the  meal-tub  and  never  putting  in  soon  comes  to  the 

bottom." 

Clam  Bouillon,  .23.  Pickles,  .03. 

Roast  Chicken,  Shredded-Wheat-Biscuit  Stuffing,  .75.        Celery,  .25. 

Cress  Salad,  .10.  Cranberry  Sauce,  .08. 

Baked  Squash,  .04.       Mashed  Potato,  .06.       Pumpkin  Pie,  .12. 

Lady-finger  Sandwiches,  .10.  Grapes,  .06. 

Nuts,  .18.  Black  Coffee,  .03. 


II. 

"  The  ornaments  of  a  house  are  the  friends  that  frequent  it." 

Consomme  Julienne.         White  Almond  Soup.        Olives.         Celery. 

Roast  Turkey.  Escalloped  Oysters.  Cranberry  Jelly.  Dangleberry  Sauce 

Mashed  Potatoes.  Glazed  Chestnuts.  Cauliflower,  Ilollandaise  Sauce. 

Mayonnaise  of  Chicken,  Nuts  and  Celery.        Cranberry  Pie.       Pumpkin  Pie. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  (Junket),  Strawberry  Sauce.  Nuts.  Fruit. 

Cafe  Noir. 


III. 

"  The  reception  one  meets  with  from  the  women  of  the  family  is  generally  the  tenor  of  one's  whole 

entertainment." 

Oyster  Soup.  Pickles.  Celery. 

Moulded  Halibut,  Lobster  Ilollandaise.  Potato  Balls.  Roast  Turkey. 

Chestnut  Timbales,  White  Sauce.  Onions  in  Cream. 

Fried  Cauliflower,  Tomato  Sauce.  Cranberry  Frappe. 

Wild  Duck,  Roasted,  Currant  Jelly.  Samp,  with  White  Sauce  and  Parsley. 

Apple-and  Pecan-Nut  Salad,  French  Dressing.  Cranberry  Tarts. 

Chestnut  Mousse.  Nuts.  Fruit. 

Cafe  Noir. 


"  Foolish  men  make  feasts  and  wise  men  eat  them."' 

Oysters  in  Half-Shell.         Lemon  Quarters. 
Consomme  aux  Pates.  Chestnut  Puree.  Pim-olas,  Celery. 

Roast  Turkey  Stuffed  with  Mushrooms.  Giblet  Gravy.  Cranberry  Sauce. 

Celery  Croquettes.  Turnip  Charlotte,  Veloute  Sauce. 

Baked  Squash.         Mashed  Potato.         Tomato  Punch.  Vol-au-vent  of  Chicken  Croquettes. 

Cress  and-Celery  Salad,  French  Dressing.  Pineapple  Cheese. 

Hot  Apple  and-Quince  Pie  with  Meringue. 
Chestnuts  with  Vanilla  Syrup,  Whipped  Cream.  Nuts.  Fruit. 

Cafe  Noir. 


134 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


IN  REFERENCE  TO  THANKSGIVING  MENUS. 


The  menu  of  the  economical  Thanks- 
giving  dinner  for  three  individuals  con- 
tains a  quantity  of  food  sufficient  for 
the  dinner  on  that  day  and  the  suc- 
ceeding day.  In  most  localities  canned 
clam  bouillon  will  be  purchased  for  the 
first  dish  in  the  menu ;  where  cream  is 
a  home  product,  a  cup  of  hot  cream, 
with  additional  seasonings,  may  be 
added  to  the  hot  bouillon  just  before 
serving.  Serve  French  dressing  with 
the  cress. 

In  the  second  menu,  escalloped 
oysters  are  served  with  the  turkey,  in 
the  place  of  oyster  stuffing.  If  the 
oysters  are  properly  prepared,  they  will 
be  found  much  better  than  when  sub- 
jected, as  in  stuffing,  to  the  heat  of  the 
oven  for  the  length  of  time  needed  to 
cook  the  turkey.  An  onion,  a  cup  of 
cooked  oatmeal  or  other  cereal,  or  even 
a  piece  of  bread,  may  be  put  inside  the 
turkey  to  aid  in  keeping  it  moist,  though 
this  is  unnecessary,  if  the  temperature 
of  the  oven,  after  the  outside  of  the 
turkey  is  seared  over,  be  lowered,  and 
a  frequent  and  generous  use  of  the 
basting  liquid  be  kept  up.  Do  not  for- 
get to  have  the  tendons  of  the  drum- 
sticks drawn.  Truss  the  turkey  neatly, 
not  only  on  account  of  its  better  ap- 
pearance, but  also  to  keep  the  wings 
and  legs  from  becoming  dry  and  taste- 
less. 

Both  cranberry  jelly  and  dangleberry 
sauce  are  given  as  accompaniments. 
The  indescribably  delectable  flavor  of 
the  latter  berry,  which  is  neither  a 
gooseberry  nor  a  cranberry,  but  re- 
sembles both,  can,  unfortunately,  be 
tested  by  few,  save  the  residents  on 
Cape  Cod  and  their  guests ;  for  as  yet 


it  has  not  been  cultivated  to  any  great 
extent  for  the  markets.  Long  cooking 
detracts  from  the  flavor  of  all  fruits, 
and  cranberries  develop  a  decidedly 
bitter  taste  if  subjected  to  long  contin- 
ued heat.  Add  a  cup  of  water  to  a 
quart  of  berries  and  cook  about  five 
minutes  ;  with  a  wooden  potato-masher 
or  pestle  force  them  through  a  sieve  ; 
add  a  cup  of  sugar,  stir,  let  heat  to  the 
boiling-point,  and  turn  into  a  dish  at 
once.  Made  in  this  way,  the  sauce  or 
jelly  will  not  keep  its  shape  when  it  is 
turned  from  a  mould,  but  there  will  be 
just  enough  of  a  suspicion  of  jelly  to 
make  the  dish  most  palatable. 

Chestnuts  in  some  form  are  given  in 
several  of  the  menus.  The  small 
American  chestnut  has  quite  as  fine  a 
flavor  as  its  larger  foreign  rival,  but  it 
takes  longer  to  prepare  the  former  for 
cooking.  The  quickest  and  most  sat- 
isfactory way  of  shelling  and  blanch- 
ing either  variety  is  as  follows:  Put  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan  ; 
when  melted,  turn  in  one  pint  of  chest- 
nuts, each  shell  scored  by  a  half-inch 
cut ;  shake  the  pan  so  as  to  butter  the 
shells  a  little  ;  let  stand  in  a  hot  oven 
five  minutes ;  then,  with  a  small  knife, 
take  off  the  shells,  to  which  the  skins 
7c>i//  adhere. 

The  vanilla  ice-cream  may  be  served 
with  strawberry  preserves, — or,  if  some- 
thing newer  be  desired  and  strawberry 
juice  be  at  hand,  with  a  strawberry  sauce 
made  as  follows  :  Dissolve  one  cup  and 
a  half  of  granulated  sugar  in  half  a  cup 
of  strawberry  juice ;  add  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon  and  let  cook  to  the  soft 
ball  stage ;  pour  hot  over  each  serving 
of   cream,    and    the    sauce   will  candy 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


135 


upon  the  cold  cream.  Other  fruit 
juices   may  be  used   in  the   same  way. 

The  lobster  Hollandaise  served  with 
the  moulded  halibut  is  simply  a  Hol- 
landaise sauce  to  which  cubes  of  lob- 
ster meat  are  added.  Use  for  this 
purpose  the  claws  of  the  lobster ;  the 
rest  of  the  lobster  may  be  served  plain 
for  supper,  or  as  a  filling  for  patties, 
to  be  served  as  an  entree  after  the  roast 
turkey. 

Cauliflower,  now  abundant  in  most 
localities,  may  be  served  in  a  large 
number  of  ways ;  but,  however  pre- 
sented, it  should  be  blanched  before 
cooking,  as  this  process  renders  it 
much  more  digestible.  Cover  with 
boiling  water,  let  boil  five  or  six  min- 
utes, drain,  and  put  over  the  fire  to 
cook  in  a  second  dish  of  hot  water;  do 
not  let  the  water  boil  very  fast,  lest  the 
flowerets  become  broken.  A  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter  added  to  the  water  in  which 
it  is  cooked,  and  half  a  tablespoonful 
of  salt  added  when  the  vegetable  is 
about  half  cooked,  will  be  found  to 
improve  the  vegetable. 

In  the  third  menu  we  give  apple-and- 
pecan-nut  salad.  Other  nuts  may  be 
used.  Do  not  cut  the  apples  until  time 
for  the  salad  to  be  served.  Pimentos 
may  be  used  in  the  place  of  the  nuts 
or  in  combination  with  the  other  two 
ingredients.  A  mayonnaise  dressing, 
to  which  whipped  cream  has  been 
added,  may  supplant  the  French  dress- 


ing ;  but,  in  that  case,  the  salad  is 
more  appropriate  for  luncheon  service 
than  as  a  part  of  a  menu  largely  made 
up  of  "  heavy  "  dishes.  In  the  second 
menu,  where  there  is  but  one  "  meat 
dish,"  we  give  a  mayonnaise  of  chicken  ; 
but,  from  a  strictly  hygienic  standpoint, 
one  vegetable,  as  cress  or  lettuce,  with 
French  dressing,  is  preferable. 

In  the  fourth  menu,  cook  a  fowl  in 
the  hot  veal  and  beef  stock  that  is  being 
prepared  for  the  consomme ;  it  will 
add  the  requisite  flavor  to  this  world- 
renowned  soup,  and,  if  removed  as  soon 
as  tender,  it  will  be  in  prime  condition 
for  service  in  the  vol-au-vent.  The  pates 
which  give  the  distinguishing  name 
to  the  consomme'  may  be  rings  cut  from 
cooked  macaroni,  cooked  alphabet  let- 
ters, or  other  forms  of  paste ;  or,  in 
commemoration  of  the  grains  of  corn 
to  which  the  colonists  were  at  one  time 
reduced,  five  grains  of  cooked  white  or 
yellow  corn  maybe  placed  in  each  plate 
of  soup.  The  turkey  may  be  stuffed 
with  a  forcemeat  made  of  bread  and 
mushrooms  ;  or  a  pound  of  mushroom 
caps, —  less  if  desired, — peeled,  and 
sauted  in  butter,  may  be  placed  in  the 
body  of  the  turkey  during  the  last  half- 
hour  of  cooking.  A  piece  of  bread 
may  close  the  opening  of  the  turkey  to 
keep  in  the  flavor  and  odor  of  the  mush- 
rooms while  cooking.  The  mushroom 
stems  may  be  cooked  with  the  giblets 
and  used  in  the  gravy. 


•36 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES. 

(///  all  recipes  where  jl our  is  used,  unless  otherwise  stated,  the  flour  is  measured 
after  sifting  once.  When  flour  is  measured  by  cups,  the  cup  is  filled  with  a 
spoon  and  a  level  cupful  is  meant.  A  tabtespoonful  or  a  teaspoonful  of  any 
designated  material  is  a  level  spoonful  of  such  material^) 


CUPS  AND  SPOONS  SHOWING   METHOD  OF  MEASURING. 


Bisque  of  Oysters. 
Heat  one  quart  of  oysters  to  the  boil- 
ing-point in  their  own  liquor;  drain 
and  strain  the  liquor ;  saute,  without 
browning,  half  a  mild  onion  cut  fine  ; 
add  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  curry  pow- 
der and  salt,  a  few  grains  of  paprica, 
and  half  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch; 
dilute  with  the  oyster  liquor  ;  let  sim- 
mer about  eight  minutes,  and  keep  hot 
over  hot  water.  Chop  the  oysters  fine  ; 
then  pass  them  through  a  fine  sieve, 
and  strain  over  the  puree  the  hot  sauce. 
When  ready  to  serve,  dilute  to  the  con- 
sistency desired  with  hot  milk  and 
cream.  To  make  more  elaborate,  serve 
in  each  plate  of  soup  three  or  four 

OYSTER  FORCEMEAT  BALLS. 

Mix  together  half  a  cup  each  of  cooked 
oysters,  chopped,  and  fresh  mushrooms 
saute'd  in  a  little  butter  and  chopped, 
and  fine  bread  crumbs  ;  season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  paprica,  and  mix  with 
sufficient  raw  yolk  of   egg  to  bind  the 


whole  together ;  roll  the  mixture  into 
small  balls,  lay  them  on  a  buttered  bak- 
ing-sheet, and  set  them  in  a  hot  oven 
five  or  six  minutes. 

Chickens  with  Oyster  Sauce. 
Clean,  singe,  and  truss  two  small 
chickens  ;  rub  over  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  brush  with  melted  butter ;  roast 
until  tender,  basting  often  ;  untruss  and 
cut  each  into  four  or  five  pieces ;  dress 
them  in  the  form  of  a  pyramid;  pour 
over  them  an  oyster  sauce,  and  sprinkle 
the  whole  with  chopped  parsley. 

OYSTER    SAUCE. 

Bring  one  pint  of  oysters  to  the  boil- 
ing-point in  their  own  liquor  ;  strain  the 
juice  and  leave  it  to  settle.  Make  a 
little  chicken  stock  with  the  giblets, 
neck,  pinions  of  the  chickens,  and  a 
few  bits  of  veal ;  remove  the  fat  and 
reduce  by  simmering  to  one  cup.  Melt 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter,  add  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and   a  dash   of  pepper ;  when 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


137 


frothy  add  one  cup  of  strained  oyster 
liquor,  the  chicken  stock,  and,  after 
simmering  five  or  six  minutes,  the 
oysters  :  bring  again  to  the  boiling- 
point;  then  beat  in  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  beaten  and  diluted  with  half  a 
cup  of  cream  ;  let  cook  a  moment  with- 
out boiling;  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice,  more  salt  and  pepper  if 
needed,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
in  bits. 


very  fine.  Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  cook  in  it,  without  browning, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  one- 
fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  add  the 
spinach,  and,  when  well  mixed  with 
the  flour  and  butter,  about  half  a  cup 
of  stock  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter.  Form  into  a  mound  on  a  serv- 
ing-dish, and  arrange  against  it  broiled 
lamb  chops,  trimmed  French  style  and 
garnished    with    chop    frills.       Season 


ROAST   TURKEY.     GARNISH    OF   WATERCRESS. 


Potato  Stuffing,  for  Roast  Fowl. 
Mix  together  two  cups  of  mashed 
potato,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs  from 
the  centre  of  the  loaf,  and  from  one- 
third  to  one-half  a  cup  of  melted  butter  ; 
season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and   sage  if    desired;  add  one  beaten 

egg- 

Broiled  Chops  with  Spinach. 
Cook  a  peck  of  well-washed  spinach 
leaves    in    boiling    salted    water   until 
tender  ;  press  out  the  water,  and  chop 


the  chops,  after  broiling,  with  salt  and 
butter,  adding  also  a  little  grated  horse- 
radish drained  from  vinegar. 
Poached  Eggs  with  Cream  Tomato  Sauce 
and  Cheese. 
Toast  five  slices  of  bread  cut  in 
rounds.  Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  cook  until  frothy,  adding,  gradu- 
ally, three-fourths  a  cup  of  strained 
tomato  pulp,  to  which  a  few  grains  of 


,8 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


soda  have  been  added,  and  half  a  cup 
of  rich  milk.  Dip  the  edges  of  the 
rounds  of  toast  in  the  sauce,  then  pour 
the  remainder  over  the  same,  and  place 
a  poached  egg  on  each  slice.  Sprinkle 
the  eggs  with  about  five  tablespoonfuls 
of  grated  cheese ;  set  the  dish  in  the 
oven  a  few  moments  to  melt  the  cheese, 
and  serve  at  once. 

Moulded  Halibut. 
Chop   a  pound  of   uncooked  fish  — 


bake,  standing  in  a  pan  of  hot  water, 
about  forty  minutes.  Serve  with  Bech- 
amel, hollandaise,  or  tomato  sauce. 
Tomato  Punch. 
Heat  slowly  to  the  boiling-point  half 
a  can  of  tomatoes,  one  pint  of  water, 
juice  of  one  lemon,  three  apples,  sliced, 
one  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  and  one- 
fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger. 
Let  boil  five  minutes,  then  pass  through 
a  fine  sieve,  add  two  ounces  of  candied 


MOULDED    HALIBUT. 


weighed  after  the  skin  and  bones  have 
been  removed — very  fine  ;  then  pass  it 
through  a  sieve.  Cook  a  cup  of  bread 
crumbs  (centre  of  the  loaf)  with  one 
cup  of  cream  to  a  smooth  paste,  and 
add,  gradually,  to  the  fish  pulp,  with 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful  of  white  pepper  or  pap- 
rica,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  onion 
juice ;  then  fold  into  the  mixture  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Pour 
the  mixture  into  a  buttered  mould,  and 


ginger,  chopped  fine,  and  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  maraschino.  Freeze,  using 
three  parts  of  ice  to  one  of  salt.  Serve 
with  the  roast.  —  Sophie  Cohen. 
Pickled  Cauliflowei'. 
Separate  the  cauliflower  into  flower- 
ets, and  wash  thoroughly;  boil  one 
quart  of  water  and  half  a  cup  of  salt 
ten  minutes,  skim,  and  pour  over  the 
cauliflower  ;  let  stand  in  a  cool  place 
twenty- four  hours ;  drain  from  the  brine, 
rinse  in    cold  water,  add   one   pint  of 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


I  39 


vinegar  and  a  tablespoonful  of  pickling 
spice,  let  simmer  half  an  hour,  and  store 
in  a  quart  fruit-jar. 

Pressed  Beans  and  Sausage. 
Let  one  quart  of  pea  beans  soak 
over  night  in  soft  water;  wash,  drain, 
and  cook  until  very  tender,  but  not 
broken,  in  boiling  water,  changing  the 
water  at  least  twice.  Put  the  beans 
into  a  baking-dish  with  links  of  sau- 
sage here  and  there,  using  in  all  about 


ery  leaves.     Serve  with  beet  or  celery 
salad  or  stewed  tomatoes. 

Brown  Betty  with  Peaches. 
Use  canned  peaches  drained  from 
the  syrup,  and  flavor  with  lemon  juice. 
Thicken  the  syrup  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  cornstarch  stirred  into  a  little 
cold  water ;  flavor  with  lemon  juice 
and  use  as  a  sauce.  Any  kind  of 
dried  fruit  cooked  until  tender  may  be 
used. 


BAKED    BEANS  AND    SAUSAGE    MOULDED.     GARNISH  :     BEET  SALAD  AND   PARSLEY. 


a  pound  of  sausage.  Dissolve  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  salt  in  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water  and  pour  over  the  beans, 
adding  more,  if  needed  to  cover  the 
beans.  Bake  five  or  six  hours.  Serve 
hot  with  tomato  catsup.  Press  the 
"left  over"  closely  into  an  oval-shaped 
dish,  taking  no  care  to  retain  the  shape 
of  the  beans.  If  needed,  a  plate  bear- 
ing a  weight  may  be  placed  on  the 
top.  When  cold  turn  from  the  dish 
and  cut  into  slices.     Garnish  with  cel- 


Fi I  ling  for  Cranberry  Pie. 

Chop  together  one  cup  of  cranber- 
ries and  half  a  cup  of  raisins ;  add  one 
cup  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  mixed  together,  then  half  a  cup 
of  cold  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Bake  with  two  crusts. 
Filling  for  Cranberry  Pie,  No.  2. 

Beat  two  eggs  until  whites  and  yolks 
are  well  mixed ;  beat  into  these  one 
cup  of  sugar,  and  then  one  cup  of 
cranberries,  cut  in  halves,  and  a  scant 


140 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.     Bake  with 
two  crusts. 

Mayonnaise  of  Chicken,  Nuts  and  Celery. 
Marinate  one  pint  of  cold  chicken, 
cut  in  small  cubes,  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  oil,  one  tablespoonful  and 
a  half  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar,  and  a 
little  salt  and  paprica.  When  ready 
to  serve,  drain  the  marinade  from  the 
chicken,  then  mix  with  the  chicken 
one  cup  of    crisp  celery,  cut    in   bits, 


Date-and- Almond  Salad. 
Remove  the  seeds  and  white  inner 
skins  from  half  a  pound  of  dates  and 
cut  in  thin  strips ;  blanch  a  cup  of  al- 
monds and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Grad- 
ually stir  three  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon 
juice  into  three  tablespoonfuls  of  oil, 
and  pour  over  the  dates  and  nuts  ;  let 
stand  in  a  cool  place  an  hour  or  more  ; 
then  serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  This 
salad  is  good,   also,  with  mayonnaise 


MAYONNAISE   OF   CHICKEN,    NUTS   AND   CELERY. 


and  one  cup  of  chestnuts,  cooked  and 
cut  in  small  pieces  when  cold ;  add 
enough  mayonnaise  dressing  to  hold 
the  mixture  together,  shape  in  a  mound 
on  a  serving-dish,  on  a  border  of  heart 
leaves  of  lettuce,  mask  the  mound  with 
mayonnaise,  and  with  pastry  bag  and 
tube  pipe  a  design  upon  the  mound; 
finish  with  a  tuft  of  lettuce  at  the  top. 
Set  aside  in  a  cool  place  about  ten  min- 
utes before  serving. 


dressing,  to  which  whipped  cream  has 
been  added. 

Raisin  Filling  for  Cake. 
Cook  together  very  slowly  one  cup 
of  seeded  and  chopped  raisins,  one  cup 
of  water,  and  two-thirds  a  cup  of  sugar. 
When  the  raisins  are  tender,  add  one 
egg,  beaten  slightly,  and  stir  and  cook 
over  hot  water  until  the  contents 
thicken  slightly.  Flavor  with  lemon, 
and  let  cool  before  using. 


THE    BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


I4I 


Fig  Filling  for  Cake. 

Chop  fine  half  a  pound  of  figs  ;  add 
one  cup  of  water  and  half  a  cup  of 
sugar,  and  cook  until  smooth,  stirring 
constantly.  One  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice  or  half  a  cup  of  chopped  nuts 
may  be  added  if  desired. 

Fried  Cauliflower. 

Clean  and  separate  a  cauliflower 
into  its  flowerets,  and  trim  the  stalks  to 
a  point.     Let  cook  five  minutes  in  boil- 


the  flowerets,  and  tomato   sauce   in   a 
separate  dish. 

Lady-finger  Sandwiches. 
Add  a  tablespoonful  of  powdered 
sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  ex- 
tract to  half  a  cup  of  heavy  cream,  and 
beat  until  solid;  spread  sponge  lady- 
fingers,  white  or  yellow,  with  straw- 
berry preserve  or  quince  jelly ;  then 
spread  one  half  of  these  quite  thickly 
with    the    whipped    cream,   and    cover 


FRIED    CAULIFLOWER. 


ing  water ;  drain,  and  let  cook  again 
in  fresh  boiling  water  until  tender, 
adding  a  level  tablespoonful  of  salt  to 
the  water;  drain  again,  and  roll  each 
floweret  in  sifted  bread  crumbs,  cover 
with  a  beaten  egg,  diluted  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  water,  drain  off  the 
egg,  and  roll  a  second  time  in  bread 
crumbs.  When  ready  to  serve,  fry  to 
a  golden  brown  in  deep  fat,  and  drain 
on  soft  paper.  Serve  piled  on  a  folded 
napkin,  with  sprigs  of  parsley  between 


each  with  a  second  lady-finger.  Serve 
on  a  plate  on  lace  paper. 
Chantillies. 
Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  until 
dry.  Add  gradually  one-third  a  cup 
of  powdered  sugar ;  then  fold  in  care- 
fully the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten 
until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  and 
flavor  with  a  few  drops  of  vanilla. 
Fold  in  one-third  a  cup  of  flour  mixed 
with  a  few  grains  of  salt,  and  shape 
with  a   pastry  bag  and   tube   on   a  tin 


142 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


covered  with  unbuttered  paper,  either 
as  sponge-drops  or  lady-fingers.  Sprin- 
kle with  powdered  sugar,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  eight  minutes.  Put 
together  in  pairs,  with  whipped  cream, 
sweetened  and  flavored,  between  them. 
Dip  them  in  melted  fondant,  or  spread 
them  with  confectioners'  frosting. 
Ohio  Squash,  Baked. 
Cut  out  a  small  circle  of  rind  around 
the  stem,  and  remove  the  seeds ;  brush 


carefully  wiping  them  with  a  soft  cloth, 
cut  the  same  into  shreds,  and  set  aside. 
Cut  the  fruit  in  halves,  and  with  a  glass 
lemon-squeezer,  or  a  spoon,  remove  the 
juice  and  pulp,  discarding  seeds,  tough 
membranes,  and  white  pithy  portions. 
Stir  the  sugar  into  the  juice,  pulp,  and 
shreds  of  yellow  rind,  and  let  cook  until 
very  thick,  but  not  firm  like  jelly.  The 
white  portion  of  the  rind  gives  the  bit- 
ter taste  to  orange  marmalade. 


OHIO    SQUASHES,    BAKED. 


the  inside  with  butter,  dust  with  salt 
and  white  pepper,  and  bake  as  pota- 
toes. When  tender  rub  over  the  inside 
of  the  squash  with  butter,  using  a  fork 
for  the  purpose.  Serve  on  a  folded  nap- 
kin. In  serving,  cut  each  squash  into 
three  or  four  pieces,  according  to  size. 
Orafige  Marmalade. 
Use  one  lemon  to  every  five  oranges, 
and  three-fourths  the  weight  of  the 
fruit  in  sugar.  Remove  the  thin  yellow 
rind  of  the  lemons  and  oranges,  after 


Ivory  Jelly. 
Soak  one-half  a  box  of  gelatine  in 
half  a  cup  of  cold  water;  pour  over 
this  a  cup  of  hot  milk,  add  two-thirds 
a  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  few  grains  of 
salt;  when  cold  stir  in  a  cup  and  a  half 
of  thick  cream  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  extract;  stir  occasionally  until 
the  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  then 
turn  into  a  mould.  When  chilled  and 
thoroughly  set,  turn  from  the  mould, 
and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


143 


Marguerites. 
Cut  a  thin  sheet  of  sponge  cake  into 
rounds  ;  spread  with  confectioners' 
frosting,  made  of  confectioners'  sugar, 
sifted,  a  few  drops  of  vanilla,  and  hot 
water  to  make  of  a  consistency  to 
spread ;  decorate  them  to  resemble  a 
daisy,  using  blanched  almonds  that 
have  been  sliced  and  browned  in  the 
oven,  and  with  a  drop  of  frosting  in  the 
centres. 


in  the  same  water  until  soft.  Mix  to- 
gether thoroughly  the  cornstarch,  sugar, 
and  salt ;  then  add  the  prune  juice,  of 
which  there  should  be  three  pints,  and 
stir  constantly  until  the  mixture  thickens 
and  reaches  the  boiling-point ;  then  let 
cook  over  hot  water  one  hour,  stirring 
occasionally.  Stone  the  prunes,  and 
pass  them  through  a  coarse  sieve  ;  add 
to  the  cornstarch  mixture  with  the 
lemon    juice,     and,    when    thoroughly 


SPONGE    MARGUERITES. 


Prune  Blanc-mange. 
(  For  use  at  restaurant,  in  school  or  store.) 

Ingredients. 

3  pounds  of  prunes. 
6  ounces  of  cornstarch. 
1 2  ounces  of  sugar. 
\  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Juice  of  2  lemons. 
Whites  of  6  eggs. 

Method.  —  Wash  the  prunes  thor- 
oughly, and  let  soak  over  night  in  two 
or  three  quarts  of  water.     Let  simmer 


heated,  fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
beaten  until  foamy  but  not  dry.  Mould 
in  cups,  and  serve  very  cold  with  cream. 
Chestnut  Mousse. 
Cut  half  a  cup  of  candied  cherries  in 
halves,  and  mix  them  with  one  cup  — 
lightly  measured  —  of  chestnut  puree. 
To  prepare  the  puree,  pass  the  chest- 
nuts, shelled,  blanched,  and  boiled, 
through  a  sieve.  Add  two-thirds  a  cup 
of  sugar  and  a  scant  tablespoonful 
of  vanilla,  and   stir  until   the   sugar  is 


144 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


dissolved  ;  cool,  and  fold  into  the  mix- 
ture a  pint  of  cream,  beaten  stiff.  Turn 
into  a  mould,  filling  it  to  overflow ; 
press  the  cover  clown  tightly  over  a 
piece  of  wrapping-paper  ;  pack  in  equal 
parts  of  ice  and  salt  and  let  stand  three 
or  four  hours.  When  turned  from  the 
mould,  garnish  with  whipped  cream,  or 


a  cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water,  and 
season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 
When  cold  turn  into  the  can  of  a 
freezer,  and  freeze  as  ice-cream  is 
frozen. —  Boston  Cooking- School  Nurses' 
Course. 

Scotch   Wafers. 
Mix  one-fourth  a  cup  of  rolled  oats, 


CHESTNUT    MOUSSE.     GARNISH:    CHESTNUTS    IN    LEMON    SYRUP. 


with  chestnuts  in  lemon  syrup.  (See 
article  on  "  A  Dish  of  Chestnuts.") 
Frozen  Beef  Tea. 
Wipe  a  pound  of  steak  from  top  of  the 
round ;  remove  all  noticeable  fat,  and 
cut  in  small  pieces  ;  put  into  a  fruit  jar 
with  one  pint  of  cold  water,  and  let 
soak  fifteen  minutes ;  then  set  on  a 
trivet  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  and  let 
cook  two  hours  at  a  temperature  not 
higher  than  1300  Fahr. ;  strain  through 


one-fourth  a  cup  of  fine  oatmeal,  half  a 
cup  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 
one  fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  with 
the  tips  of  the  fingers  work  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  ;  add  hot  water 
to  form  a  stiff  dough ;  toss  on  a  floured 
board,  knead  slightly,  and  roll  into  a 
thin  sheet ;  shape  with  a  small  cutter, 
and  bake  on  buttered  sheets  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  — 
Nurses'  Course. 


Boston     Cooking  -  School 


Queries  and  Answers, 


This  department  is  for  the  benefit  and  free  use  of  our  subscribers. 
Questions  relating  to  menus  and  recipes,  and  those  pertaining  to  culinary 
science  and  domestic  economics  in  general,  will  be  cheerfully  answered 
by  the  Editor.  Communications  for  this  department  must  reach  us  before  the  first  of  the  month 
preceding  that  in  which  the  answers  are  expected  to  appear.  Address  queries  to  yanet  M.  Hill, 
Editor,  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine,  3J2  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass.  Communi- 
cations relating  to  subscriptions  or  business  matters  should  be  addressed  to  Boston  Cooking- 
School  Magazine,  22  School  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


Query  256. —  Mrs.  C.  F,  Atchison, 
Kan.:  "  Recipe  for  crullers." 
Crullers. 

Sift  together  five  cups  of  sifted  flour, 
one  level  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of 
soda,  and  four  level  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream-of-tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  mace. 
Beat  two  eggs  slightly,  adding  a  cup 
of  sugar  and  then  a  cup  of  milk.  Stir 
the  liquid  ingredients  into  the  dry 
ingredients,  and  add  a  little  more  flour, 
if  needed.  Take  out  the  dough  on  to 
the  board,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  handle 
only  to  get  into  shape ;  then  pat  out 
into  a  sheet,  cut  into  strips,  twist,  and 
fry.  Roll  the  crullers,  while  hot,  in 
powdered  sugar. 


Query  257. —  Mrs.  f.  H.  S.,  New 
Haven,  Conn.:  "  A  new  filling  for  layer 
cakes." 

Lemon-and- Almond  Filling. 

Mix  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon,  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  the 
slightly  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  cook 
in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly 
until  thick  and  smooth,  then  add  a  cup 
of  blanched  almonds,  finely  chopped. 
Use  cold. 

Fig-and-Nut  Filling'. 

Boil  a  cup  of  sugar  and  one-third  a 
cup  of  water,  without  stirring,  until  the 


syrup  threads.  Pour  the  syrup  in  a  line 
stream  on  to  the  white  of  an  egg,  beaten 
until  foamy,  but  not  stiff;  add  also  one 
fourth  a  pound  of  figs,  finely  chopped 
and  cooked  smooth  in  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  water,  and  half  a  cup  of  Eng- 
lish walnuts  or  pecans,  finely  chopped. 
Beat  occasionally  till  cold. 


Query  258. —  Miss  M.  LeB.,  Pensa- 
cola,  Fla. :  "  Menu  and  decorations  for 
a  marguerite  luncheon." 

MENU. 

White  Almond  Soup. 

Breadsticks.     Beauregard  Eggs,  Olives. 

Birds  en  Casserole. 

Cress-and-Cauliflower  Mayonnaise. 

Orange  Sherbet  in  Orange  Shells. 
Sponge  Marguerites. 
Cafe  Noir. 

White  Almond  Soup. 
Cut  four  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal 
into  small  pieces.  Break  or  saw  the 
bones,  also,  into  small  pieces,  add  three 
quarts  of  cold  water,  and  let  cook  just 
below  the  boiling-point  about  four 
hours ;  then  add  one  onion,  two  stalks 
of  celery,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  six  peppercorns, 
and  let  simmer  an  hour  longer;  strain, 
and  when  cold  remove  the  fat,  and 
let   heat  again.      Cream  together  one 


46 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch ;  dilute  with  a 
little  of  the  hot  soup,  and  let  cook  ten 
minutes  in  the  boiling  soup.  Add 
half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste ;  then  add  two  ounces 
(one-fourth  a  cup)  of  blanched  almonds 
pounded  fine  in  a  mortar. 

Beauregard  Eggs. 

Let  four  eggs  stand  in  water  heated 
to  the  boiling-point,  without  boiling ,  half 
an  hour ;  then  remove  the  shells  and 
chop  the  whites  rather  fine.  Cut  slices  of 
bread  to  resemble  the  petals  of  a  daisy; 
toast,  and  arrange  these  on  a  platter, 
about  a  round  centre  of  toast.  Stir 
the  chopped  whites  into  a  sauce  made 
of  two  tablespoonfuls,  each,  of  butter 
and  flour,  a  dash  of  salt,  and  three- 
fourths  a  cup  of  milk;  reheat,  and 
spread  the  mixture  on  to  the  toast, 
slightly  moistened  and  spread  with  but- 
ter. Pass  the  yolks  through  a  sieve 
into  the  centre  of  the  dish.  Set  into 
a  hot  oven  a  moment,  then  garnish 
with  sprigs  of  parsley  between  the  pet- 
als. There  should  be  about  ten  petals 
of  toasted  bread. 

Cook  the  birds,  nicely  trussed,  in 
the  oven,  in  a  covered  earthen  dish, 
adding  a  few  potato  balls  and  fresh 
mushrooms  just  before  the  cooking  is 
finished.  Send  to  table  in  the  dish  in 
which  they  are  cooked. 

Remove  the  pulp  from  the  oranges 
with  a  spoon,  after  cutting  a  slice  from 
the  top  of  each,  and  press  the  juice  from 
the  pulp  for  the  sherbet.  Cut  the  tops 
of  the  rinds  in  Vandykes,  chill,  and  use 
as  cups  for  the  sherbet.  Press  a  star  of 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored 
before  whipping,  on  the  top  of  the 
sherbet  in  each  cup. 

For  the  sponge  marguerites,  bake  a 
half-inch  sheet  of  sponge  cake,  stamp 


in  small  rounds,  spread  with  confec- 
tioners' frosting,  and  press,  at  once, 
upon  each  blanched  almonds,  sliced 
and  browned,  to  simulate  the  petals  of 
a  daisy ;  finish  with  a  drop  of  frosting 
in  the  centre  of  each. 

Use  yellow  and  white  marguerites  for 
the  floral  decorations.  A  cut-glass 
globe,  filled  with  blossoms,  cannot  be 
improved  upon  for  the  centre  of  the 
table.  An  oval  white  wire  basket,  filled 
with  damp  moss,  may  be  used;  in  this 
case  the  flowers  need  be  wired.  Let 
a  bow  of  yellow  ribbon  ornament  the 
handle  of  the  basket. 

Query  259. —  Miss  A.  E.  E,  Las 
Cruces,  JV.  M. :  "  Temperature  of  the 
oven  for  cream  puffs." 

Temperature  for  Cream  Puffs. 

The  proportions  of  the  different  in- 
gredients in  the  recipe  sent  by  querist 
are  correct.  Spread  the  mixture  in  the 
pans  so  that  it  shall  not  be  too  thick, 
and  bake  about  twenty-five  minutes ; 
the  puffs,  when  prqperly  baked,  should 
be  well  browned,  and  feel  very  light 
when  taken  up  in  the  hand.  The  tem- 
perature of  the  oven  should  be  about 
the  same  as  for  pastry. 


Query  260. — Same  subscriber :  "Rec- 
ipe for  a  reliable  sponge  cake." 
Sponge  Cake. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  five  large  eggs 
until  thick  and  lemon -colored;  add 
one  cup  of  fine  granulated  sugar,  beat- 
ing it  in  gradually,  the  grated  rind  of 
a  lemon,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
lemon  juice.  Beat  the  whites  of  five 
eggs  until  dry,  adding  a  few  grains  of 
salt.  Now  cut  and  fold  one-half  of 
the  whites  into  the  yolks  and  sugar, 
then  half  a  cup  of  sifted  flour ;  add 
the  rest  of  the  whites  in  the  same  man- 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


147 


ner,  and  finally  a  second  half  a  cup  of 
sifted  flour.  The  mixture  should  be 
very  light  and  fluffy.  Bake  in  a  tube- 
pan,  in  a  moderate  oven,  from  fifty  to 
sixty  minutes. 


Query  261. —  Miss  M.  E.  C,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass. :  "In  the  desserts  of  tapioca 
cooked  with  fruit,  given  in  the  Magazine, 
is  the  tapioca  to  be  soaked  in  water  before 
it  is  cooked '?  " 

Soaking  of  Tapioca. 

The  old-fashioned  flake  and  pearl 
tapioca  should  be  soaked  before  cook- 
ing; but  the  quick- cooking  tapiocas 
now  in  the  market  do  not  require 
soaking. 

Query  262. —  Mrs.  O.  M.  K.,  South 
Bend,  Ind.:  "Menu  for  a  dinner  party 
of  ten  old  ladies ;  dishes  of  the  '  olden 
tyme?  suitable  to  serve  with  chicken  pie." 

Menu.  —  Dishes  of  "  Ye  Olden  Time." 

I. 

Clam  Chowder.     Pickles. 

Roast  Loin  or  Saddle  of  Mutton. 

Plum  Preserves. 

Succotash.     Mashed  Potatoes.      Chicken  Pie. 

Cranberry  Sauce.     Lettuce  Salad. 

Cheese.     Pumpkin  Pie. 

Banbury  Tarts.     Hulled  Corn,  Maple  Syrup. 

Tea. 

II. 

Bean  Porridge. 
Boiled  Cod,  Oyster  Sauce.     Pickles. 

Wild  Turkey,  Roasted,  Pumpkin  Sauce. 

Mashed  Potato. 

Chicken  Pie.       Sweet  Pickles. 

Cole-slaw,  Brownbread  Sandwiches. 

Pound  Cake. 

Quince  Preserves,  Thick  Cream. 

Tea. 


Query  263. —  Mrs.  A.  G.  W.,  Utica, 
N.  Y. :  " Menu  for  a  supper  to  be  served 
to  sixty  people.  Twenty-five  cents  a  plate 
to  cover  the  cost  of  material  and  leave  a 


small  profit.  We  usually  serve  o?ie  or 
two  hot  dishes,  a  salad  and  a  dessert. 
We  cannot  broil  or  fry,  and  do  not  wish 
ice-cream." 

Menu. 

Creamed  Fish  and  Oysters  au  Gratin 

(en  coquille). 

Cold  Ham,  Sliced  Thin.     Olives. 

Parker-House  Rolls. 

Lettuce  and   English   Walnuts  Moulded  in 

Tomato  Jelly,  Boiled  Dressing. 

Frozen  Apricots.  Sponge  Cake. 

Coffee. 

II. 

Escalloped  Oysters. 

Cabbage-and-Almond  Salad. 

Parker-House  Rolls.     Veal  Loaf,  Sliced  Thin. 

Escalloped  Potatoes. 

Macedoine  of  Fruit  and  Nuts,  Whipped  Cream. 

Cake.  Coffee. 

Frozen  Apricots. 

Of  three  cans  of  apricots,  remove  the 
skins  and  cut  the  pulps  in  small  pieces ; 
pass  the  syrup  through  a  cheese-cloth, 
add  the  pulp,  three  pints  of  sugar  and 
three  quarts  of  water,  and  stir  until  the 
sugar  is  dissolved;  then  freeze  as  any 
ice  cream.  The  better  the  apricots  the 
better  the  ice. 

Macedoine  of  Fruit  and  Nuts. 

Let  four  boxes  of  gelatine  soak  in  four 
cups  of  cold  water ;  add  three  quarts 
and  one-half  of  boiling  water  and  six 
cups  of  sugar;  when  cooled  slightly 
add  four  cups  of  lemon  juice  and  pass 
through  a  cheese-cloth.  Pour  liquid 
jelly  to  the  depth  of  one-fourth  an  inch 
into  moulds  standing  in  ice  water ; 
when  nearly  firm  decorate  with  slices 
of  banana,  from  which  radiate,  alter- 
nately, thin  strips  of  figs  and  blanched 
almonds,  and  cover  with  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  jelly;  when  this  is  "  set,"  add  a  layer 
of  fruit  and  nuts  (figs,  dates,  candied 
fruit,  bananas  and  almonds),  and  cover 
with  jelly.  Proceed  in  the  same  man- 
ner until  the  moulds  are  filled.     Serve, 


148 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


when  "  set "  and  cold,  with  whipped 
cream,  flavored  and  sweetened  before 
whipping. 

Serve  the  creamed  fish  (Iresh  cod- 
fish) and  oysters  in  shells  or  paper 
cases,  on  a  doily-covered  plate,  with  a 
sprig  of  parsley  on  the  top  of  each. 
Garnish  the  cold  ham  with  parsley  and 
olives.  Serve  the  salad  on  individual 
plates.  Cut  the  lettuce  in  narrow  rib- 
bons, mixing  the  light  and  dark  leaves. 
A  can  of  pimentos,  costing  twenty-five 
cents,  will  be  a  pleasing  addition  to  the 
cabbage-and- almond  salad.  Wipe  the 
pimentos  dry,  then  cut  in  strips,  or 
stamp  in  fanciful  shapes  with  a  French 
cutter.  Garnish  the  veal  loaf  with 
stems  of  barberries  and  green  leaves. 


Query  264. — Mrs.  J.  C.  H.,  St. 
Louis,  Mo.:  " Recipe  for  sweet  pickle 
made  of  watermelon  rinds.'1'' 

Watermelon  Sweet  Pickle. 

Prepare  seven  pounds  of  watermelon 
rind  by  removing  pink  pulp  and  green 
rind  and  cover  with  cold  water,  to  which 
is  added  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  to 
each  quart  of  water.  Let  stand  over 
night,  then  rinse  and  drain  thoroughly. 
Boil  together  three  pounds  and  one 
half  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  two 
ounces  of  paper-bark  cinnamon,  and 
one  ounce  of  cloves ;  add  the  rind,  and 
let  cook  until  transparent.  Set  aside 
over  night.  Let  boil  a  second  time, 
drain  the  rind  from  the  syrup,  reduce 
the  syrup  by  boiling,  and  pour  over  the 
rind  packed  in  fruit  jars. 


Query  265. —  Mrs.  J.  M.  B.,  Youngs- 
town,  O.:  "  Recipes  for  chicke?i  croquettes 
and  almo?id  soup  ;  also  for  pressed  chicke?i 
that  will  not  crumble  when  sliced." 
Chicken   Croquettes. 

Melt  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter,  add 


half  a  cup  of  flour,  and  let  cook  until 
frothy;  then  add,  gradually,  stirring 
constantly,  one  cup  of  well -reduced 
chicken  stock,  seasoned  with  vege- 
tables and  sweet  herbs,  and  half  a  cup 
of  thin  cream.  Season  to  taste  with 
salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  or  lemon  juice, 
add  one  egg,  well  beaten,  and  one 
pint  of  chopped  chicken.  Let  stand 
until  very  cold,  then  shape  ;  roll  in  fine 
bread  crumbs,  cover  with  a  beaten  egg 
diluted  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
water,  and  then  roll  a  second  time  in 
fine  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat, 
drain  on  soft  paper,  and  serve  at  once. 
For  white  almond  soup  see  answer  to 
Query  258. 

Pressed  Chicken. 
Cover  a  young  fowl,  cut  in  joints, 
with  boiling  water,  and  let  simmer  until 
tender,  together  with  a  few  slices  of 
carrot,  half  an  onion,  and  a  stalk  of 
celery.  Remove  the  skin  and  bones, 
and  return  them  with  the  broth  to  the 
fire,  and  let  simmer  until  reduced  to 
about  one  cup;  strain,  and  set  aside. 
When  the  flesh  is  cold,  chop  fine,  re- 
move the  fat  from  the  broth,  reheat, 
and  stir  the  chicken  into  it.  adding 
more  seasoning  if  desired.  Decorate 
a  mould  wjth  '-hard-boiled"  eggs  cut 
in  slices ;  pack  in  this  the  hot  chicken, 
cover  with  a  buttered  paper  bearing  a 
weight,  and  let  stand  until  cold  and  set. 


Query  2^.— Mrs.  G.  IV.  C.  Bos- 
ton, Mass. :  il  Recipe  for  picked-up  codfish 
in  milk." 

Picked-up  Codfish. 

Gradually  heat  to  boiling-point  one 
pint  of  salt  codfish,  picked  into  small 
pieces  and  covered  with  cold  water ; 
then  drain.  Melt  one-fourth  a  cup  of 
butter,  and  cook  in  it  one-fourth  a  cup 
of  flour  until  frothy;  then  add.  gradu- 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


149 


ally,  one  pint  of  rich,  creamy  milk,  stir- 
ring constantly;  add  the  fish,  and  let 
stand  over  hot  water  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes; just  before  serving,  stir  in  two 
eggs  slightly  beaten. 

Query  267. — Mrs.  F  B.  F.,  Laco- 
nia,  N.  H. :  "  How  make  mock  bisque 
soup  to  avoid  curdling  the  milk  ?  Recipe 
without  eggs  for  chocolate  filling  for 
Washington  pie." 

Mock  Bisque  Soup. 

Cook  one  can  of  tomatoes  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  an  onion 
cut  in  slices,  fifteen  minutes ;  add  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  pass  through 
a  sieve.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  half 
a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  flour, 
and  one  quart  of  milk;  when  boiling, 
stir  in  the  hot  tomato,  season  to  taste, 
and  serve  at  once.  Made  in  this  man- 
ner, if  the  fresh  tomatoes  are  not  over 
ripe,  or  the  canned  goods  too  old,  the 
soda  may  be  omitted  without  danger 
of  curdling. 

Chocolate  Filling  without  Eggs. 

Melt  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan ;  add  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  milk ;  stir  until 
the  boiling-point  is  reached,  then  add 
one  ounce  and  a  half  of  melted  choco- 
late, and  let  boil,  without  stirring,  about 
ten  minutes ;  remove  from  fire,  add  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract,  and 
beat  until  of  a  consistency  to  spread. 


Query  268. —  Mrs.L.  W.  R.,  Lewis- 
town,  Mont. :  "  What  is  meant  by  double 
cream  ?  Also  give  recipes  for  use  of 
sago" 

Double  Cream. 

Literally  speaking,  by  double  cream 
we  mean  "  cream  of  the  cream."  After 
milk  has  stood  twelve  hours  the  cream 
is  removed  and  set  aside ;  after  a  sec- 


ond twelve  hours  the  top  is  taken  from 
this  first  cream,  and  called  "  double 
cream."  Such  cream  when  chilled 
may  be  beaten  solid  to  the  bottom  of 
the  bowl.  In  practice,  we  mean  by 
double  cream  any  sweet  cream  thick- 
ened by  standing  so  that  it  may  be 
beaten  solid.  In  the  East  such  cream 
may  be  purchased  in  jars  holding  one 
cup  (half  a  pint)  for  fifteen  cents. 
Veal-and-Sago  Soup. 

Remove  the  fat  from  two  and  a  half 
pounds  of  veal,  and  chop  very  fine. 
Add  the  bones  and  three  quarts  of 
cold  water,  let  simmer  three  hours, 
then  add  an  onion  cut  in  halves,  half  a 
carrot,  a  stalk  or  two  of  celery,  a  tea- 
spoonful of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt.  Let  simmer  one  hour, 
then  strain  off  the  stock.  Soak  half  a 
cup  of  pearl  sago  an  hour  in  water  to 
cover ;  stir  into  the  hot  stock,  and  let 
simmer  half  an  hour;  then  add  one 
pint  of  scalded  milk ;  dilute  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  with  half 
a  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  and  stir  into 
the  soup.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  serve  at  once. 

Sago  felly. 

Soak  one  cup  of  sago  over  night  in 
one  pint  of  cold  water.  In  the  morn- 
ing add  one  cup  and  three-fourths  of 
boiling  water  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  let  cook  one  hour  in  a  double 
boiler;  then  stir  in  one  cup  of  sugar 
and  one-fourth  a  cup  of  lemon  juice. 


Query  269. —  Mrs.  W.  H.  F.,  Rox- 
bury,  Mass. :  " Recipes  for  oyster  chow- 
der, oyster  salad,  and  peanut  soupy 
Oyster  Chowder. 

Cut  about  an  eighth  of  a  pound  of 
fat  salt  pork  in  bits,  try  out  the  fat, 
and  saute  in  it  an  onion  sliced.  Par- 
boil one   quart  of   sliced   potatoes  five 


5° 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


minutes  and  drain.  Pour  a  cup  of 
water  over  a  quart  of  oysters,  look 
them  over  carefully,  to  remove  bits  of 
shell,  strain  the  liquor  and  water  over 
the  oysters,  and  heat  to  the  boiling- 
point;  then  skim,  take  out  the  oysters, 
and  keep  them  hot;  pour  the  liquor 
into  the  pork  and  onions,  and  strain 
the  whole  over  the  potatoes ;  add  boil- 
ing water  if  necessary,  and  cook  the 
potatoes  until  tender;  add  the  oysters, 
one  quart  of  rich  milk  (or  part  cream), 
and  a  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  pour  into 
the  serving-dish.  Saute  a  cup  of  coarse 
bread  crumbs  in  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  hot  butter,  and  sprinkle  over  the 
top. 

Oyster-and-Celery  Salad. 

Parboil  the  oysters  (heat  them  to 
the  boiling-point  in  their  own  liquor), 
drain,  and,  if  large,  halve  each;  mari- 
nate with  a  French  dressing  (i.e.,  toss 
the  bits  of  oyster  in  oil  enough  to  coat 
them  nicely ;  then  toss  them  in  a  little 
lemon  juice,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  set  aside  to  become  thoroughly 
chilled).  When  ready  to  serve,  drain 
again,  and  add  about  one- third  as 
much  in  bulk  of  celery,  cut  in  bits,  and 
one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pickled 
nasturtium  seeds  or  capers;  then  mix 
with  mayonnaise  or  a  boiled  dressing. 
Serve  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves.  Cab- 
bage, sliced  as  for  slaw,  may  be  used 
in  the  place  of  celery.  Garnish  with 
small  pickles  cut  in  thin  slices,  and 
spread  to  resemble  a  fan. 
Peanut  Soup. 

Cook  two  cups  of  shelled  and 
blanched  peanuts  with  a  slice  of  onion 
and  a  stalk  of  celery  until  tender;  pass 
through  a  sieve,  reheat  with  one  pint 
of  white  stock,  and  stir  into  a  white 
sauce  made  of  one-fourth  a  cup,  each, 


of  butter  and  flour,  and  a  pint  of  milk. 
Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 


Query  270. —  Mrs.  J.  T,  New  York 
City :  "A  recipe  for  celery  croquettes. 
How  mould plum-pudding  glace  ?  When 
was  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Maga- 
zine first  issued '  ?  " 

Moulding  of  Plum-Pudding  Glace. 

Bombe  moulds,  quart  size,  retail  for 
about  $1.75.  A  "melon  mould"  is 
quite  as  often  used,  and  costs  much 
less. 

When  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Mag- 
azine was  first  Issued. 

The  first  number  of  The  Boston 
Cooking-School  Magazine  was  pub- 
lished in  June,  1896.  The  editions 
issued  in  that  year  and  the  following 
year  have  long  been  exhausted. 
Celery  Croquettes. 

Cut  well-cleaned  stalks  of  celery  in 
small  pieces,  let  cook  until  tender  in 
salted  water,  then  drain.  Melt  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  butter,  cook  in  it  half  a  cup  of 
flour,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  dash  of  pepper;  add  gradually, 
stirring  all  the  time,  one  cup  of  the 
water  in  which  the  celery  was  cooked, 
or  one  cup  of  chicken  stock,  or  half  of 
each,  and  ^one-third  a  cup  of  cream; 
also  one  well-beaten  egg,  and  one  pint 
of  celery,  measured  after  cooking,  as 
above.  When  cold  shape,  egg  and 
bread-crumb,  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown 
in  deep  fat. 


Query  271. —  Mrs.  W.  A.  S.  N, 
Clarendoji,  Pa. :  "  A  recipe  for  gluten 
bread." 

Gluten  Bread. 

Scald  one  pint  of  milk ;  when  luke- 
warm add  half  a  cake  of  compressed 
yeast  dissolved  in  half  a  cup  of  water, 
also  two  level  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


151 


one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  slightly 
beaten  eggs,  and,  if  allowed,  four  level 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar ;  mix  in  gluten 
flour  to  make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to 
knead.  Knead  about  ten  minutes. 
Let  double  in  bulk,  "  cut  down,"  and 
let  rise  again  to  double  its  bulk ;  then 
shape  for  the  pans,  and  when  light 
bake  as  any  bread. 


Query  272. —  Mrs.  W.  M.  M.,  Still- 
water, Minn. :  " Kindly  tell  how  to  serve 
the  tongue  moulded  in  aspic  jelly,  given 
in  April- May  issue." 

How  Serve  Tongue  in  Aspic. 

As  the  tongue  was  sliced  before 
moulding,  the  dish  may  be  served  most 
easily  with  a  spoon,  or  perhaps  with  a 
spoon  and  fork.  Serve  a  portion  of 
the  jelly  with  each  slice  of  the  tongue. 


Query  273. —  Mrs.  J.  T.,  New  York 
City. :  u  Recipe  for  aspic  jelly,  made  with 
beef  extract." 

Quick  Aspic  felly. 

Put  over  the  fire  one-fourth  a  cup, 
each,  of  onion  and  carrot  sauted  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  stalks 
of  celery,  a  bay  leaf,  half  a  dozen  pep- 
percorns, and  two  or  three  cloves,  with 
one  quart  of  water ;  add  three  bouillon 
capsules,  or  three  teaspoonfuls  of  beef 
extract  (not  home-made)  dissolved  in 
two  cups  of  boiling  water ;  let  simmer 
about  half  an  hour,  then  add  one  box 
of  gelatine  softened  in  one  cup  of  cold 
water,  any  additional  flavoring  desired, 
and  the  slightly  beaten  white  and 
crushed  shell  of  one  egg  (more  shells 
will  be  advantageous).  Bring  slowly 
to  the  boiling-point,  and  let  simmer 
five  minutes;  let  stand  in  a  hot  place 
ten  minutes,  then  skim  and  strain 
through  a  cheese-cloth  folded  double. 

Query   274. —  Mrs.  f.    T.,    Youngs- 


town,  O. :  " Recipe  for  hickory-nut  cook- 
ies." 

Hickory-Nut  Cookies. 

Beat  three  eggs  until  whites  and 
yolks  are  well  mixed;  add  one  cup  of 
chopped  hickory-nut  meats,  one  cup  and 
a  half  of  sugar,  three-fourths  a  cup  of 
melted  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
and  about  three  cups  of  flour,  sifted 
together.  Roll  out  into  a  thin  sheet, 
cut  in  rounds,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

Hickory-Nut  Cookies,  No.  2. 

Cream  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter; 
add  gradually  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and 
then  three-fourths  a  cup  of  hickory-nut 
meats,  chopped  fine,  a  well-beaten  egg, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and,  lastly, 
one  cup  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder,  and  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  sifted  together.  Drop 
the  mixture  by  teaspoonfuls  on  to  but- 
tered tins,  spacing  the  portions.  Gar- 
nish each  bit  of  dough  with  a  whole 
nut.  This  quantity  will  make  two 
dozen  small  cookies. 


Query  275. —  Mrs.  S.  C.  H,  New 
Brunswick,  N  f. :  "What  is  meant  by 
one  quart  of  salad  /  What  are  the  cor- 
rect proportions  of  meat  and  dressing  for 
a  rich  chicken  or  lobster  salad  1 " 
Salad  Ingredients,  etc. 

By  one  quart  of  salad  we  mean  one 
quart  of  the  prepared  materials ;  i.  e., 
the  material  from  which  the  salad  takes 
its  name,  the  other  ingredients,  and  the 
dressing.  The  proportions  of  solid 
materials  and  dressing  vary  according 
to  taste.  As  a  rule,  the  chicken  or  lob- 
ster used  in  salads  is  marinated  with  a 
French  dressing ;  in  this  case  probably 
one  cup  of  mayonnaise  to  a  quart  of 
materials  would  suit  most  tastes.  Lob- 
ster salad  is  apt  to  be  made  "salvy" 


152 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


by  mixing,  hence  it  is  better  to  add  the 
mayonnaise  simply  as  a  garnish  to  the 
marinated  meat. 


Query  276. —  Mrs.  G.  E.  C,  Skene- 
ateles,  N.  Y. :  "Kindly  tell  me  the  proper 
use  of  individual  ramequin  dishes.  May 
they  be  used  for  other  articles  than  cheese  / 
Give  two  or  three  recipes  for  appropriate 
dishes  to  be  served  in  the?n." 
Ratnequin  Dishes. 

Probably  the  first  use  of  the  little 
round  or  oval  dishes  called  ramequins 
was  in  the  serving  of  various  cheese 
dishes ;  but  they  are  now  quite  as  often 
used  for  souffle's  of  meat,  fish,  etc.,  or 
for  puddings.  They  may  be  used  in 
place  of  the  paper  cases  so  often  in 
evidence  at  large  entertainments. 
Chicken  a  la  Becha?tiel. 

Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
cook  in  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a 
dash  of  white  pepper ;  then  add  half  a 
cup,  each,  of  chicken  stock  and  cream. 
When  boiling,  remove  from  the  fire, 
and  beat  in  two  well-beaten  eggs  and 
one  pint  of  chopped  chicken.  Turn 
the  mixture  into  buttered  ramequin 
dishes,  and  bake,  standing  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water,  about  twenty  minutes.  The 
water  should  not  boil.  In  serving,  set 
the  ramequins  on  doily-covered  plates. 
Fish  a  la  Bechamel  may  be  prepared 
by  the  same  recipe.  Salmon,  or  any 
white  fish,  may  be  used.  Do  not  chop 
the  fish,  but  rub  it  fine  and  smooth 
with  a  wooden  spoon. 

Oyster  Souffle. 

Discarding  the  hard  white  parts  and 
the  beards,  cut  two  dozen  oysters  into 
four  or  five  pieces  each,  and  set  aside 
for  the  souffle'.  Melt  one-fourth  a  cup 
of  butter  in  a  saucepan;  add  half  a 
cup  of   flour,  mixed  with   one-fourth  a 


teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  few  grains, 
each,  of  paprica  and  white  pepper  ;  add 
gradually  half  a  cup  of  strained  oyster 
liquor  and  one-fourth  a  cup  of  cream. 
When  the  mixture  boils,  remove  from 
the  fire,  and  beat  into  it  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  three  eggs;  then  fold  in  the 
oysters  (first  draining  them  carefully) 
and  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten 
until  dry.  Pour  the  mixture  into  but- 
tered ramequins,  filling  them  two-thirds 
full.  Bake  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  until 
the  mixture  is  well  "puffed"  and  nicely 
browned  (about  fifteen  minutes). 
Salpicon  of  Sweetbreads,  Tongue,  and 
Mushrooms. 
Cook  a  pair  of  sweetbreads,  a  calf's 
tongue,  and  a  dozen  mushrooms  in 
the  usual  manner,  and  when  cold  cut 
in  small  cubes.  Prepare  a  pint  of 
Bechamel  sauce  as  in  chicken  a  la 
Bechamel,  reduce  by  slow  cooking  until 
very  thick,  remove  the  butter  from  the 
top,  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  or 
three  eggs.  Cook  the  egg  without 
boiling  the  sauce,  add  the  meat,  reheat, 
and  serve  in  ramequin  dishes. 


Query  277. — Mrs.  f.  F  P.,  Port- 
land,  Me.:  uCan  you  give  recipe  and 
directions  for  baking  the  French  bread 
served  in  hotels  ?  " 

French  Bread. 

We  do  not  think  it  possible  to  shape 
or  bake  an  exact  copy  of  the  French 
loaves  {jockos)  with  home  appliances. 
The  process  follows :  The  dough  is  an 
ordinary  bread  dough  made  with  water 
and  potato  yeast.  Pull  and  beat 
(rather  than  knead)  a  long  time.  When 
light  shape  in  balls  weighing  one  pound 
and  a  half  each,  flatten  these  to  a  third 
of  their  thickness,  and  range,  two  inches 
apart,  on  a  board  dusted  with  flour ; 
sprinkle  with  flour  and  cover  hermeti- 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


^6 


cally.  In  about  twenty  minutes  roll 
and  pull  again  into  cylindrical  shape, 
twenty-two  inches  long,  lay  on  a  bed 
of  Indian  meal,  and  leave  until  a  little 
meal  adheres  to  the  bottom  of  the 
dough.  Place  in  a  box,  or  tin,  a  long 
strip  of  coarse  cloth  at  least  twenty- 
two  inches  wide  ;  let  the  right  side  rise 
up  two  inches  against  the  side  of  the 
box,  put  in  a  loaf  against  the  cloth 
(meal  side  down),  raise  the  cloth  on 
the  left  side  so  as  to  form  it  into  a  fold 
parallel  to  the  dough,  thus  keeping  it 
from  flattening  out;  put  in  another 
loaf  on  the  linen  and  against  the  fold, 
bring  up  the  linen  in  a  second  fold, 
and  so  continue.  When  the  dough 
has  doubled  in  bulk,  insert  at  one  side 
of  the  first  loaf  a  cloth-covered  board 
shaped  for  the  purpose,  and,  taking 
hold  of  the  fold,  roll  out  the  loaves  one 
at  a  time.  Bake  fifteen  minutes  on 
the  floor  of  the  oven. 


can  be  arranged  accordingly.  The  ther- 
mometer is  an  invaluable  aid  in  se- 
curing uniform  results  in  baking. 


Query  278. —  Mrs.  A.  V.,  Ardmore. 
Mo. :  "Is  it  necessary  to  have  an  oven 
thermoi?ieter  register  5000  Fahr.,  the 
temperature  suggested  in  the  June-July 
number,  Jor  the  baking  of  bread!  " 
In  Reference  to  Thermometers. 

Oven  thermometers  are  made  to 
register  about  3000.  The  actual  tem- 
perature of  the  oven  door  is  from  750  to 
3000  less  than  that  in  the  centre  of  the 
oven,  so  that  the  thermometer  registers 
the  relative  rather  than  the  actual  tem- 
perature of  the  oven.  But  in  practice 
this  is  immaterial,  for,  after  two  or  three 
trials,  one  learns  just  what  the  ther- 
mometer on  her  oven  door  should 
register,  in  order  to  bake  any  article  as 
desired.  Being  nicely  adjusted,  they 
respond  very  quickly  to  changes  of  tem- 
perature; any  increase  or  diminution 
in  heat  is  seen  at  once,  and  the  drafts 


Query  279. —  Mrs.  R.,  Boston :  u Rec- 
ipes for  cider  apple  sauce  and  mincemeat 
made  with  boiled  cider  ?  " 

Boiled-Cider  Apple  Sauce. 

Pare,  quarter,  core,  and  wash  enough 
sweet  apples  to  fill  a  gallon  porcelain 
kettle ;  add  to  them  half  a  gallon  of 
boiled  cider,  cover,  and  let  boil  slowly, 
but  constantly,  until  they  are  perfectly 
tender.  "  Golden  Sweets  "  are  one  of 
the  best  varieties  of  apples  used  for 
this  purpose. 

Mincemeat. 

Chop  fine  four  pounds  of  uncooked 
beef  from  the  upper  part  of  the 
round,  and  two  pounds  of  kidney  suet, 
separately ;  add,  by  measure,  twice  as 
much  chopped  apple  as  meat,  one 
pound  of  sugar,  three  cups  of  molasses, 
two  quarts  of  boiled  cider,  one  cup  of 
quince  jelly,  three  pounds  of  large  seed- 
less raisins,  three  pounds  of  currants, 
half  a  pound  of  sliced  citron,  the  juice 
of  three  lemons,  one  tablespoonful, 
each,  of  ground  cinnamon  and  mace, 
one  nutmeg,  grated,  one  teaspoonful 
of  ground  cloves,  and  about  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  salt.  Mix  thoroughly, 
and  set  aside  over  night.  Fill  the  crust 
without  previously  cooking  the  mince- 
meat. Bake  the  pies  nearly  one  hour. 
Scald  the  remainder  of  the  meat,  and 
put  away  in  fruit  jars.  Add  the  second 
quart  of  boiled  cider  cautiously,  as  the 
mixture  should  not  be  too  thin. 


Query  280. —  Mrs.  A.  G.  IV.,  Swan- 
ton.   Vt. :    "  Where,   and  at   what  price, 
can  I  purchase  a  book  giving  information 
in  regard  to  x  laying  the  table  I '  " 
Book  on  " Laying  the  Table." 

"The  Expert  Waitress,"  by  Anne 
Frances  Springsteed,  price  $1.00,  will 
probably  prove  helpful.  It  may  be 
obtained  at  most  bookstores. 


bf#^ 


News  and  Notes. 


Address  communications  for  this  department  to  Janet  M.  Hilt,  Editor 
of  the  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine,  372  Boylston  Street, 
Boston,    Mass.     Communications   relating  to   subscriptions  or  btisiness 

matters   should    be  addressed    to    Boston    Cooking-School    Magazine,    22    School   Street, 

Boston,  Mass. 


BOSTON  FOOD  FAIR. 

Music  will  be  a  prominent  feature  at 
the  Boston  Food  Fair  in  October.  Dan 
Godfrey  and  his  band  of  English  mu- 
sicians, Sousa  and  his  famous  band, 
the  Salem  Cadet  Band,  Reeves'  Ameri- 
can Band  of  Providence,  the  First  Regi- 
ment Band,  and  other  well-known 
organizations  will  be  heard  in  Me- 
chanics' Building  in  the  most  popular 
selections  of  the  day. 

Paul  Revere  Hall  is  to  be  transformed 
into  a  miniature  sportman's  paradise, 
under  the  direction  of  Mr.  C.  A.  Jones, 
editor  of  the  New  England  Sportsman, 
and  will  present  a  delightful  reproduc- 
tion of  life  in  the  woods,  with  camps, 
live  game  animals,  and  trophies  of  the 
hunt  attractively  displayed.  Here  will 
be,  also,  the  headquarters  for  the  de- 
scendants of  a  famous  tribe  of  Indians, 
who  will  dispense  souvenirs  to  all 
comers. 

The  managers  claim  to  have  inaugu- 
rated a  new  departure  in  the  domestic- 
science  department,  in  the  engagement 
of  Miss  Nellie  Dot  Ranche,  of  Chicago, 
who  will  give  daily  demonstrations  in 
her  model  kitchen  and  dining-room. 
"  My  idea  and  object,"  says  Miss 
Ranche,  "in  instructing  in  cookery  is 
not  to  teach  the  chemistry  of  foods, 
but  to  assist  the  housewife  in  selecting 
standard  foods,  delicate  preparation, 
and  dainty,  attractive  serving." 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention 


women's  EDUCATIONAL  AND  INDUS- 
TRIAL UNION,  264  BOYLSTON  STREET, 
BOSTON,  MASS. 

The  usual  classes  in  millinery  and 
dressmaking  are  now  forming  at  the 
Women's  Educational  and  Industrial 
Union,  to  begin  the  first  week  in  Octo- 
ber. Later  will  follow  "  Parliamentary 
Law,"  by  Mrs.  Shattuck,  "Topics  of 
the  Day,"  by  Miss  Chase,  embroidery, 
penmanship,  etc.  The  new  subject  for 
the  season  is  botany,  instruction  in 
which  will  be  given  by  Miss  Clarabel 
Gilman.  She  will  furnish  all  the  speci- 
mens required.  Mrs.  Anna  Garlin 
Spencer  has  been  engaged  (through 
the  Perkins  Fund)  to  give  a  series  of 
lectures  on  the  progressive  stages  of 
charity,  and  kindred  topics,  some  time 
in  January.  It  is  probable  that  Mrs. 
Stacy  Widdington,  an  English  woman  of 
high  repute  for  ability  and  eloquence, 
will  appear  at  the  Union  earlier  in  the 
season. 


The  School  of  Housekeeping  on  St. 
Botolph  Street  will  open  its  fall  term 
Sept.    15,    with    a   class    of    fourteen 


INDIGESTION 

HORSFORD  S  ACID  PHOSPHATE 

prevents    acidity  of  the  stomach 
and    offensive   belching    of  wind. 
Makes  the  process  of  digestion 
natural  and  easy. 

Sold  by    i»rnyui«iv 
The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


BAKING 
POWDER 


BOSTON,    MASS. 
AFTER  MANY  YEARS'  EXPERIENCE, 
'  AM  CONVINCED  THAT  A  PURE  CREAM  OF 
TARTAR    BAKING  POWDER  IS  THE  BEST, 
QUICK    LEAVENING.    AGENT,    AND 
WHOLESOME    FOOD   ADJUNCT. 

GUARANTEE  THAT  THIS    POWDER, 
'PREPARED    AFTER    MY    FORMULA,    CON- 
TAINS   ONLY    THE    HIGHEST    POSSIBLE 
GRADE  OF   CREAM  OF  TARTAR   AND    Bl 
' CARBONATE  OF  SODA,  WITH  THE  SMALL- 
EST    PERCENTAGE     OF    CORN     STARCH 
'NECESSARY  FOR  ITS  PERFECT  KEEPING. 

AS  LONG  AS  MY  SIGNATURE.APPEARS 
ON  THESE  LABELS,  HOUSEKEEPERS  MAY l 
BE  SURE  THAT  THIS  FORMULA  WILL  BE 
FOLLOWED    IN    THE    MANUFACTURE   OF 
THIS    BAKING  POWDER. 


MJTHOR  C^THg/'.BOSTON   COOK   BOOK' 
3    MEMBER   OF   MRS     LINCOLN'S   BAKING 
POWDER  COK 


BOSTON,  MASS.  U.S.A. 


None  genuine  without  Mrs. Mary  J. Lincoln's  signature 


Send  2c.  stamp  for  Mrs.  Lincoln's  NEW  COOK  BOOK  of  Seasonable  Dishes  for  Every 

Month,  to 

MRS.  LINCOLN'S  BAKING  POWDER  CO., 

21    COMMERCE  STREET,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


UP  THE  CHIMNEY 

IS  WHERE  MOST  OF  THE  HEAT  GOES  IN  MOST  RANGES. 
THIS  WASTE  OF  FUEL  AND  COOKING  POWEK  IS  PRE- 
VENTED   IN    THE    . 

HOME  CRAWFORD 

RANGE.  Inventive  genius  has  supplied  a  renaedy  —  a  patented 
"SINGLE  DAMPER,"  one  movement  of  which  simultane- 
ously regulates  fire  and  oven.  Simply  slide  the  knob  to  "Kindle," 
"  Bake,"  or  "  Check,"  as  your  needs  may  require. 

The  Two=Damper  Ranges  are  Deficient. 

Ask  your  dealer  about  it  —  and  about  the  oven  (most  capacious  of  any,  five  heights  for  rack),  the  large  self- 
cleaning  fire  box,  the  superior  grates  (choice  of  triple,  dock-ash  or  plain),  the  extra  large  ash-pan,  the  REI<IABI<J5 
oven  thermometer. 

EASIEST    MANAGED    RANGE    AND    BEST    EVER    MADE. 

Send  for  Illustrated  Circular. 


WALKER  &  PRATT  MFC.  CO.,  31-35  union  st.,  boston. 

Proprietors  Finest  Stove  Foundry  in  the  world. 

*************************************** 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


employees  for  a  five  months'  train- 
ing. The  school  has  been  reorganized, 
in  a  sense,  this  year.  It  has,  in  place 
of  its  boarding-house  side,  resident 
pupils,  who  are  taking  what  may  be 
designated  as  a  scientific  course  of 
training  for  housekeeping. 

The  newly  equipped  home-maker 
will  know  a  great  deal  more  than  her 
grandmother  about  general  hygiene, 
the  chemical  and  nutritive  qualities  of 
food,  the  good  and  bad  bacteria  which 
infest  the  air  and  the  dust  which  sifts 
in  through  doors  and  windows.  She 
will,  have  an  idea  how  to  spend,  to 
the  best  advantage,  her  husband's  in- 
come, and  her  own  time,  and  from  her 
cultivated  sense  of  proportion  she  will 
be  able  to  evolve  comfort,  and  a  mas- 
tery of  the  domestic  situation.  At 
least  all  this  is  foreshadowed  by  the 
study  of  household  economics. 

The  school  has  among  its  corps  of 
instructors  this  season  two  young 
women  graduates  from  Pratt  Institute. 
They  are  Miss  Pelteram  and  Miss 
Huntington,  and  they  will  reveal  the 
mysteries  of  good  marketing  and  good 
cooking. 


The  following  are  the  subjects  of  the 
fall  demonstration  lectures  at  the  Bos- 
ton Cooking- School  :  — 

"  Home  Catering  for  Receptions," 
November  i  and  3. 

"  How  to  make  Breakfast,  Luncheon 
and  Dinner  Bread,  and  Best  Uses  for 
Stale  Pieces,"  November  8  and  10. 

"Pastry  Lesson,"  November  15  and 

"  Fin-de-Siecle  Thanksgiving  Din- 
ner," November  22  and  24. 

"  A  Group  of  Emergency  Dishes  from 
Left-overs,"  December  6  and  8. 

"  Fads  and  Fancies  for  the  Epicure," 
December  13  and  15. 

When  you  -write  Advertisers,  please  mention 


"  Christmas  Feasting,"  December  20 
and  22. 

"  Chafing-dish  Possibilities,"  January 
3  and  5. 

"  Dinner  for  Eight "  (six  dollars),  Jan- 
uary 10  and  12. 

"  Vegetarian  Viands  Viewed,"  Jan- 
uary 17  and  19. 

"  Cake  and  Frosting,"  January  24 
and  26. 

"A  Birthday  Party,"  January 31  and 
February  2. 


Miss  Fannie  M.  Farmer,  principal  of 
the  Boston  Cooking-School,  will  begin 
a  course  of  demonstrations  in  cookery 
at  Chelsea,  Mass.,  Oct.  21. 


M  iss  Eliza  W.  Buckingham,  of  Lex- 
ington, has  been  engaged  to  teach  cook- 
ing in  the  classes  at  the  Y.  W.  C.  A., 
Worcester,  Mass.,  the  coming  season. 
Miss  Buckingham  comes  highly  recom- 
mended, and  is  a  graduate  of  the  Bos- 
ton Cooking-School,  Class  of  '99. 


Miss  Sophie  B.  Hurd,  of  Oneida, 
N.  Y.,  Class  of  '99,  has  been  engaged 
to  take  charge  of  the  domestic-science 
department  in  the  Household  Economic 
Association,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 


Miss   Stella    Downing,    '96,   has    an 
excellent  position  in  Erie,  Pa. 

Platts  Chlorides. 

The  Household  Disinfectant 
instantly    destroys    foul    odors    and 
disease-breeding    matter,   preventing 
much  sickness. 

An  odorless,  colorless  liquid  ;  powerful,  safe 
and    economical.      Sold  in  quart  bottles  only, 
by  Druggists  and  high-class  Grocers.    Prepared 
only  by  Henry  B.  Piatt,  Piatt  St.,  New  York. 
The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


HOASTS 

ARE  GIVEN  A  MOST  DELICATE 
AND  APPETIZING  RELISH,  IF 
JUST  TOUCHED  UP  A  BIT  WITH 


PERRINS 
SAUCt . 

FOR  SIXTY  *EARS  THIS  SAUCE 
HAS  GIVEN  PERFECT  SATISFAC- 
TION THROUGHOUT  THE  WORLD. 

.ftuH DUNCANS  SONS.  AG>t> 

&**  V     NEW  YORK.  5*^ 


DR.  HUBBARD'S 


Trade 


Mark 


VEGETABLE 
GERMICIDE. 


The    Standard    and   Original. 


This  compound  has  proved  the  most  effective  agent 
known  to  science  for  the  cure  of  DIPHTHERIA,  Bron- 
chitis, Tonsilitis,  Pneumonia,  Asthma,  Croup.Whoop- 
ing  Cough,  Catarrh,  Hay  Fever.  For  Cuts,  Wounds, 
Sores,  Ulcers,  Sprains,  Burns,  Scalds,  Bites  of  Insects, 
etc.,  for  Scarlet  Fever,  Measles,  and  all  contagious 
diseases,  it  has  no  equal.  One  trial  will  convince  the 
most  skeptical.    Indispensable  in  every  household. 

THE  BEST  FAMILY  REMEDY. 

For  Sale  by  all  Druggists,  or 

J.  HUBBARD  &  CO. 

12  G  FRANKLIN  AVE.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Household  Hints. 


Don't  try  to  broil  over  a  low  fire. 

Don't  try  to  broil  over  a  smoky  fire. 

Don't  leave  the  kitchen  door  open 
when  you  are  broiling  meat. 

Don't  put  coal  on  the  fire  just  before 
you  wish  to  use  the  broiler. 

Don't  leave  the  kitchen  while  you 
are  broiling  fish,  chops,  steak,  etc. 

Don't  forget  that  it  is  better  to  broil 
on  a  hot,  dry  frying-pan  than  over  a 
poor  fire. 

WEIGHTS    AND    MEASURES. 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar  weigh 
one  pound. 

Four  cups  of  sifted  flour  weigh  one 
pound. 

Two  cups  of  butter  weigh  one  pound. 

Quarter  a  cup  of  flour,  or  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  weigh  one  ounce. 


REAL    KITCHEN    WISDOM. 

Always  heat  a  frying-pan  before  put- 
ting anything  in  it,  not  scorching  but 
hissing  hot.  Test  it  with  a  drop  of  water 
—  if  it  dances  about  a  little  hissing 
globule  the  pan  is  just  right.  Things 
laid  in  a  cold  pan  and  then  set  over 
the  fire  are  certain  to  stick,  besides 
they  lack  the  appetizing  crispness, 
which  is  the  main  reason  for  frying. 
In  breakfast  bacon,  particularly,  it 
makes  all  the  difference  in  the  world 
in  flavor. 

When  washing  windows,  use  a  sponge, 
and  then  polish  with  newspapers,  which 
will   do   the   work    beautifully  without 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention 


leaving  dusty  streaks.  Ammonia  dis- 
solved in  the  water  gives  the  glass  a 
much  cleaner  look  than  soap.  Always 
remove  the  dust  from  the  corners  with 
a  piece  of  whalebone  before  washing. 


The  horse  has  a  smaller  stomach 
proportionately  than  other  animals,  be- 
cause the  horse  was  created  for  speed. 
Had  he  the  ruminating  stomach  of  the 
ox,  he  would  be  quite  unfitted  for  the 
labor  which  he  now  performs. 


When  making  a  fricassee  of  fowl  put 
it  aside  in  the  basin  with  the  prepared 
sauce  for  three  or  four  hours  before 
serving,  so  that  the  pieces  of  chicken 
may  be  thoroughly  impregnated  with 
the  sauce.  This  applies  equally  to 
rabbit  and  game. 


Corn  Muffins. —  One  cup  Indian  meal, 
two  cups  white  flour,  one-half  cup  sugar,  three 
teaspoonfuls '  Congress  Yeast  Powder,  two 
cups  milk,  two  eggs. 


CROOTES 

makes  the  best  cocoa  there  is.  There 
is  none  better,  because  it  is  not  pos- 
sible to  make  any  better  cocoa.  If  it 
were,  it  would  still  be  made  by 

CROOTES. 

Try  it  at  Boston  Food  Fair  or  send  us 
three  '2-cent  stamps  for  a  lO-cup  tin. 

L.  BELING  &  CO.,  410-B  West  13th  St.,  New  York. 

The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


AS  AN 

INFANT  FOOP. 


GAIL  BORDEN  f 
EAGLE  BRAND 

CONDENSED  MILK. I 

^END  FOR"BAB/£S"a  BOOK  FOR  MOWeftS.  \ 
Borden's  Condensed  Milk  Co.,  New  York 


i 


BURN  !  !  ! 


We   shall    demonstrate  at  the 

FOOD    FAIR,  = 

and   it  will   be   well   worth   your  time  to  call   on   us,   in   the    MAIN    HALL   on   your   RIGHT. 


Stoves  can  be  used  the  year  round. 

Makes  gas  of  a  fine  blue  flame. 

Makes  no  soot,  smoke  or  odor. 

Can  broil  and  toast  over  flame. 

Bakes  evenly  and  quicker  than  with  coal. 

Gas   made  from   kerosene   oil,  placed  in   tanks  below   and 

away  from  the  stoves. 
Will  work  with  poor  draft. 

Costs  about  one  cent  per  hour  while  running. 
Heats  water  fronts  better  than  coal. 
No  coal,  kindling  or  ashes  to  handle. 
Does  not  injure  lining  of  stove. 


BETZ  FUEL  GAS  HEATING  CO., 


43=45  Cornhill,  BOSTON. 


r\  -tM 


""■"■'Jj^^SSSsW. 


Seal  Your  Jelly 

jam  and  preserves  by  pouring  a 
little  melted  paraffine  on  top  of 
each   glass   and  jar.     It   will 
harden  immediately  and  form 
a  covering  that  will  keep  the 
preserves  sweet,  clean  and  as 
soft  and  fresh  at  the  top  as  at 
the   bottom.    Perfectly  pure, 
tasteless,  odorless,  airproof, 
waterproof,  acidproof,  and 
a  protection  against  ver- 
min and  mould. 

Paraffine  is  sold  in  pound  pack* 
iges    for    household  us 
drug,  grocery  mid  gen 
stores.     Made  by 

Standard  Oil  Co. 


*&£t*£MfeefeC£fr£€*:€£ei&€£fe€fefefe6* 


NOTHING 
LIKE   l 


CANDO 

-)  POLISH 


t* 

'■  Trial  of  iy 

THE    ROYAL  B 

vex*     Polish,  fft 

We  have  made  arrangements  with   dealers  to  give  fft 

their  customers  free  a  Sample  Bottle  of  "CAXWO"  <f\ 

If  your  dealer  should  not  have  it,  m 

that   you    get   it.  « 


CANDO,  sil 


Silver    I'olish 

send   us   his  address.  "  We  will  se 
First  try  it,  then  you'll  buy  it. 

PAUL     MEG. 
lo  Fulton  Street, 


CO., 

ROSTOV. 


**&M9999&»&i&9!»&*4s»&»9&*a:iM* 


THE     OLD     RELIABLE 

9 


uixon 
Stove 


'Carburet  of 
Iron  " 

olisH. 


Never  turns  Red  or  Rusts  your  Stoves. 

JOS.  DIXON  CRUCIBLE  CO,,  JERSEY  CITY,  N.  J, 


When  you  write  Advertisers, please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


JP^  1  CENT  A  CUP.: 


PACKAGE  OF 


BURNHAM'S 

CREAM 
CUSTARD 


M7//  make  TEN  CUPS  of 

CUSTARD 

or  TWO  QUARTS  of 

SUPERIOR  ICE  CREAM. 

ONLY  MILK  TO  BE  ADDED. 

No  Cooking. 

Prepared  in  a  Minute. 


If  not  yet  in  the  stock  of  your  grocer, 
send  us  his  name  and  10  cents,  and  we  will 
send  you  a  package.  Every  package  con- 
tains instructions  how  to  obtain,  FREE, 
our  beautiful  Souvenir  of  the  Spanish- 
American  War,  and  recipes  for  different 
custards. 


LET    WATER    RUN    TWENTY    MINUTES. 

;  The  caution  is  now  timely  that  the 
first  water  drawn  from  faucets  which 
have  been  unused  for  weeks,  or  per- 
haps months,  is  most  unsafe  to  drink. 
It  should  be  the  care  of  the  returning 
housekeeper,  or  the  person  who  will 
open  the  closed  house  for  the  family 
occupancy,  to  see  that  spigots  are 
turned  on  all  over  the  house  for  twenty 
minutes  at  least,  in  order  that  the 
water  that  has  been  standing  in  the 
pipes  may  flow  away,  says  the  New  York 
Evening  Post.  This  warning  has  been 
so  often  given  that  it  seems  almost  trite, 
but  within  the  week  two  cases  of  serious 
illness,  unmistakably  traceable  to  this 
cause,  have  been  reported  by  a  physi- 
cian. 

Egg  Lemonade. 

Beat  an  egg  until  white  and  yolk  are 
well   mixed ;  beat   in  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  two  small 
lemons,  and  add  two  cups  of  water. 
Fruit  Punch. 

Boil  a  grated  pineapple,  four  cups  of 
sugar,  and  three  cups  of  water,  fifteen 
minutes ;  add  one  cup  of  strong  tea, 
freshly  made,  and  strain  into  a  bowl. 
When  cold  add  the  juice  of  five  lem- 
ons, six  oranges,  one  pint  of  strawberry 
or  grape  juice,  strained,  half  a  pint 
of  maraschino  cherries,  and  about  six 
quarts  of  water.  Add,  also,  a  piece  of 
ice,  and,  when  ready  to  serve,  a  bottle 
of  Apollinaris  water.  Strawberries, 
mint  leaves,  or  slices  of  banana  may 
be  used  in  the  place  of  the  cherries. 


There  are  now  so  many  cheap  and  unre- 
liable laundry  starches  on  the  market  that  the 
housekeeper  is  often  in  doubt  as  to  what  starch 
to  employ,  especially  for  delicate  work.  There 
can  be  no  mistake  in  using  Electric  Lustre 
Starch,  which  has  been  on  the  market  for 
many  years,  and  has  always  given  perfect 
satisfaction.  Where  it  is  once  tried  no  other 
will  be  used. 


"Salads,  Sandwiches,  and  Chafing- 
dish  Dainties,"  by  Janet  McKenzie  Hill, 
Editor  of  The  Boston  Cooking-School 
Magazine,  is  the  newest  and  most  complete 
work  upon  these  subjects.  Bound  in  cloth, 
handsomely  illustrated.  Price,  $i.  50  postpaid. 
Orders  filled  by  The  Boston  Cooking- 
School  Magazine,  22  School  St.,  Boston. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazinl 


0 


CENTS 
A  YEAR 


1899-1960  10 


CENTS 
A  COPY 


k*g 


OSTON 

OK 
CITOOL 
AGAZ1NE 


43qqowooooqqooqqqoc 


9KUUNARY  SCIENCE  AND  DOMESTIC  ECSNSH1CS  \Mi\Jm 


JQQOOOOO&J'JiXXXXXXXXXXXiOOOOCXXXXX 


YoL  IV. 


DECEMBER,  JANUARY, 


No.  4. 


The  Dignity  of  Service. 

Elizabeth  Boynton  Harbert,  Ph.  D. 
Where  She   Learned  It.  Helen  Campbell 

Yule-tide   Decorations.  Eleanor  M.  Lucas. 

American   Pottery.  James  S.  Dawes. 

Some  Duties  of  a  Waitress.  Catherine  J.  Coolidge. 

The  Conservative  Woman  at  Home. 

Mary  Sargent  Hopkins. 

A  Christmas  Pudding.  Kate  M.  Post 

Editorial  Department:  Janet  McKenzie  Hill 

After-Breakfast  Chat  —  Economical,  Seasonable,  and'  Yule-tide 
Menus  —  Recipes  (Illustrated)  —  Queries  and  Answers  —  News 
and  Notes — Books,  etc. 

(For  complete  index  see  second  and jourtk  pages.) 


Published  Bimonthly  by 

THE   BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE, 

Publication  Office:  372  Boylston  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 


IJopyright,  1899,  by  the  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Entered  at  Boston  Post  Office  as  iecond-cla«  matter. 


/ 

/ 

y 


THOMAS  WOOD  &  CO. 

IMPORTERS  AND  ROASTERS, 
215  STATE  STREET,  BOSTON. 


IT    DRINKS    THE    BEST/ 


The    ALADDIN    OVEN 

will  cook  food  in  a  scientific  manner  at  the  coat 
of  four  to  five  cents  a  day. 


Does  not  heat  the  room,  throw  off  any  odor  of  cooking,  and 
does  not  require  watching. 


SEND     FOR     A     CIRCULAR, 


71    Kilby  St.. 


THE  ASBESTOS  PAPER  GO.,  bo^to'^Vass. 


MV 

E 

my 

M¥ 
MV 

i 

MH 

MK 

MU 

M- 

MK 


Housekeepers! 

THIS  LABEL  MEANS  SOMETHING. 


It  means  the  most  durable,  the  handsomest,  the 

strongest  and  the  most  economical 

cooking  ware  in  the  world. 

SHEET  STEEL,  DOUBLE  TINNED, 

and  superior  to  enamelled  ware  in  every  way. 
#.* 

Be  sure  that  this  label  is  on  the  cooking 
ware  that  you  buy  and  you  will  save  time, 
strength,  patience  and  money,  and  have 
better  results  in  preparing  food. 


m 
m 
m 
m 
* 
m 
tin 
m 
m 
to 
m 
m 
m 

Hi 

m 
m 

m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
m 
ft 


DOVER  STAMPING  COMPANY,  90  North  Street,  BOSTON, 


Whenyu  write  Advertisers,  > lease  mention  Thb  Boston  Cooking-School  Maoaxinf 


The  Story  of  Vanilla. 


CHAPTER    VII. 


By  Robert  Manton. 


The  vanilla  plant  is  an  orchid,  and  it  is  the  only 
one  of  which  the  fruit  has  a  commercial  value. 
Until  recent  years  it  was  cultivated  only  by  the 
Mexican  Indians  in  the  valleys  of  Mazantla  and 
Papantla.  Their  method  of  cultivation  was  to  cut 
up  an  old  plant  and  tie  the  pieces  in  a  simple  man- 
ner to  the  branches  of  small  trees,  where  they  live 
and  thrive  on  air  alone  for  two  full  years  without 
connection  with  the  soil.  At  the  beginning  of  the 
third  year  these  cuttings  throw  out  tendrils  or 
shoots  not  much  larger  than  a  horse  hair,  which 
take  root  in  the  ground.  The  next  spring  the  cut- 
tings sprout  and  blossom.  These  blossoms,  at 
night,  give  out  a  most  fra- 
grant and  exquisite  perfume, 
dropping  a  honey-like  moist- 
ure which  is  found  on  the 
leaves  in  the  morning.  To 
an  American  the  bloom  looks 
like  a  cluster  of  small  white 
flowers.  From  each  of  these 
blossoms  spring  small  pods, 
sometimes  twenty  or  thirty 
in  number.  The  pods  grow 
rapidly,  and  as  they  become 
larger  many  drop  off,  so  that 
when  the  plant  is  full  grown 
there  may  be  perhaps  only 
from  one  to  five  pods  left. 
These  appear  in  the  picture 
like  the  flower  stem.  They 
grow  to  be  long  beans  con- 
taining the  seeds,  and  are 
about  the  size  of  the  long 
yellow  banana  seen  in  our 
home  markets. 

The  vanilla  is  strictly  a  pollen  blossom,  and  the 
male  and  female  flowers  grow  on  different  plants. 
In  former  years  the  Indians  did  their  cultivating 
in  a  hap-hazard  manner,  depending  upon  the  winds 
of  heaven  to  interchange  the  pollen  and  fertilize 
the  female  blossoms.  In  recent  years,  however,  the 
Italians  and  French  have  largely  displaced  the 
Indians  and  are  growing  vanilla  in  a  more  scientific 
manner.  They  set  the  plants  nearer  together,  and 
this  allows  the  pollen  to  be  interchanged  more 
readily  by  natural  causes  such  as  insects  and  the 
wind,  and  they  also  change  the  pollen  themselves 
by  artificial  means. 

(COPYRIGHT  PROTECTED  BY  LYMAN  D.  MORSE.) 


Until  a  few  years  ago  the  lands  where  the  vanilla 
plants  thrive  were  controlled  by  tribes  of  Indians. 
Although  they  had  no  regular  titles  the  Mexican 
Government  recognized  their  claims.  The  land 
thus  held  by  the  various  tribes,  was  alloted  to  indi- 
vidual members,  each  of  whom  knew  exactly  what 
belonged  to  him  and  cultivated  his  own  plants 
without  interfering  with  his  neighbor.  Among 
themselves  all  was  harmony,  and  their  chief  troubles 
were  caused  by  the  poorer  classes  of  Mexicans 
who  sometimes  descended  into  the  valleys  and 
robbed  the  Indians  of  their  long  tended  crops. 
In  1896-7  the  Mexican  Government  drove  these 
Indians  off  the  lands  which 
they  had  held  for  hundreds 
of  years,  and  moved  them 
to  other  localities  and  sold 
(?)  the  tracts  thus  made 
valuable  by  these  frugal  and 
hard  working  natives  to 
foreigners,  who  now  practi- 
cally control  the  production 
of  vanilla  in  Mexico. 

The  reader  will  plainly  see 
that  the  final  production  of 
pure  vanilla  extract  is  a  deep, 
and  intricate  subject.  It  is 
a  life's  work  to  acquire 
the  knowledge  and  skill 
necessary  to  produce  a  per- 
fect extract.  The  firm  so 
^  widely  known  as  the  Joseph 

\  Burnett       Company, 

1  l&A  Boston,     Mass.,     began 

^^..a  the    manufacture   of    vanilla 

tj      ^    extract   fifty-two    years   ago, 

and  its  product  is  to-day  universally  recognized  as 
the  standard  of  extracts  throughout  both  hemis- 
pheres. Burnett's  Extract  is  made  exclusively 
of  the  finest  Mexican  ( Papantla )  vanilla  beans. 
No  adulteration  or  foreign  substance  of  any  nature 
whatever  is  used.  The  mode  of  manufacture  is  dis- 
tinctly different  from  any  other.  It  is  the  method 
as  well  as  the  material  that  makes  Burnett's 
Extracts  the  first  choice  of  housewives  every- 
where. 

Next    month  a  chapter   will  be    devoted  to  the 
curing  and  marketing  of  vanilla  beans. 
(  To  be  continued.) 


When  you  write  Advertisers, please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


WHEN  A 
HOUSEWIFE 

Sees  the  TRADE=MARK 
below  on  Enameled  =  Ware 
Cooking  Utensils,  it  is  Safe 
to    Buy,  and    not    till    then. 

[Extract  from     U.  S.  Health   Reports,  June    15,  '99. 

"  In  the  month  of  April,  1899,' 
"there    occurred    near  Boston    a' 
"series  of  severe  poisoning  cases1 
"which  baffled   the  physicians" 
"for  a  long  time.      About    20" 
"cases    were    reported    by  the" 
"physicians,     and    from    several' 
"towns.      After  careful   investi-*'   : 
"gation  it  was  found  that  all  of"   : 
"the    victims    had    eaten    cream"   ! 
"cakes  purchased  from  a  certain"-'; 
"  baker  in  a  town  near  Bos-" 
"ton.      We  promptly   took" 
"the  matter  up,  and  found," 
"by  a  careful   analysis  of" 
"the  so-called  'enameled'" 
"Settle  in  which  the  ere  un  " 
"was  cooked,  that  it  con-" 
"tained    antimony,    which" 
"fully  explained  the  whole1 
"  mystery." 

"  The  production  of  articles  : 
"of  unscrupulous  manu-" 
"  facturers  and  dealers  " 
"cannot,  unfortunate-" 
"ly,  be  stopped  or  re-" 
"stricted    at    present,    or" 
"until    our    State   Legis-" 
"  latures  can  be  induced  " 
"to  pass  such   suitable" 
"and  stringent  laws  as"    ^E 
"  will  effectually  prevent"    £^L 
"their  manufacture.    In"    vj") 
"the  meantime  the  people"    *^» 
"must  look  out  for  them-" 
"selves  and  carefully  scru-" 
"tinize    before    purchasing" 
"  all  such  articles." 

"  Our  investigations  of  the  high-" 
"grade  goods  called  the  'L.  &  G.'" 
"Agate  Nickel- Steel  Ware  have" 
"been  very  rigid,  and  the  conclu-" 
"sions  of  our  experts,  as  unani-" 
"  mously  approved  by  our  medical  " 
"staff,    show    conclusively    their" 
"  superior  excellence,  and  we  are  " 
"pleased  to  extend  to  them  the' 
"  official  recognition  of  the  U.S.' 
"  Health  Reports." 

you  cannot  be  too  careful 
when  buying  your 

Cooking  Utensils 

f      for    the   trade- 

LOOK  I?ark  bar,Jt  *g 
the  enamel.  It 
you  don't  find  it,  ask  for  the 
44  L.  &  G."  Agate  Nickel- 
Steel  Ware  Cooking  Utensils,  or  write  the  manufac- 
turers, who  will  tell  you  where  they  can  be  obtained. 

Send  for  special  pamphlet  of  vital 
importance  to  every  housewife. 

"L.  &  G."    AGATE    NICKEL-STEEL    WARE    is 

sold     by     all     reputable     dealers     everywhere. 

Lalance  &  Qrosjean  Mfg.  Co. 

New  York.       Chicago.       Boston. 


COMPLETE    INDEX. 

PACK 

A  Christmas  Pudding 176 

After-Breakfast  Chat 181 

American  Pottery 166 

In   Reference   to  Economical   Menus     .  186 
In  Reference  to   Seasonable  and   Yule- 
tide  Menus 196 

Menus,  Economical 185 

Menus,  Seasonable 183 

Menus,  Yule-tide 184 

News  and  Notes 206 

Some  Duties  of  a  Waitress ]  70 

The  Dignity  of  Service 157 

The  Conservative  Woman  at  Home  .     .  174 

Where  She  Learned  It J  59 

Yule-tide  Decorations 162 

Queries  and  Answers:  — 

Beef  Sweetbreads  as  Food     ....  199 

Berlin  Pancakes 204 

Boston  Baked  Beans 202 

Boston  Brownbread        202 

Breakfast  Chocolate 200 

Breakfast  Coffee 200 

Casserole  of  Chicken 200 

Chocolate  Brittle 205 

Clam  Broth  and  Soup 205 

Cream-of-tartar  in  Angel  Cake   .     .     .  201 

Devonshire  Cream 200 

Dishes  to  Exhibit  at  State  Fail  .     .     .  202 

Fruit  Pudding 204 

Fudge 204 

Graham  Crackers 202 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes 203 

Hot  Tamalas 203 

How  Cook  Sausage 202 

Lobster  Newburg 200 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 201 

Menus  for  Wedding  Breakfast    .     .     .  198 

Noodles 20 1 

Nut  Cake 200 

Old-Fashioned  Pumpkin  Pies      .     .     .  204 

Pigeons  and  Squabs  en  Casserole  .     .  203 

Scotch  Haggis 199 

Stuffing  for  Roast  Goose 199 

(Continued  over.) 


When  you  write  Advertisers, please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


THE 


Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


Vol.  IV.  DECEMBER  AND  JANUARY,   1899-1900. 


No.  4. 


THE  DIGNITY  OF  SERVICE. 

By  Elizabeth  Boynton  Harbert,   Ph.D. 


If,  as  we  are  told  by  our  beloved 
philosopher  of  Concord,  "  Raphael  has 
painted  wisdom,  Handel  sung  it,  Phid- 
ias carved  it,  Shakespeare  dramatized 
it,  Wren  builded  it,  Luther  preached 
it,  Washington  armed  it,  Watt  mechan- 
ized it,"  surely  the  federated  or  com- 
bined wisdom  and  love  of  the  world 
can  domesticate  it.  We  had  thought 
at  first  to  write,  "the  combined  wisdom 
and  love  of  the  womanhood  of  the 
world,"  but  calmer  thought  revealed 
that  the  great  art  of  home -building 
would  tax  the  varied  energies  and 
powers  of  all  humanity. 

Does  the  statement  seem  rather 
strong  ?  Listen  a  moment  to  Mr.  Rus- 
kin's  words  in  regard  to  a  single  branch 
of  "domestic  science,"  or  the  art  of 
home-making  :  — 

Cookery  means  the  knowledge  of  Circe 
and  Medea,  and  of  Calypso  and  Helen,  and 
of  Rebekah,  and  of  all  the  queens  of  Sheba. 

It  means  the  knowledge  of  all  fruits  and 
balms  and  spices,  and  of  all  that  is  sweet  in 
fields  and  groves. 

It  means  carefulness,  inventiveness,  watch- 
fulness, willingness,  and  readiness  of  appliance. 

It  means  the  economy  of  your  great-grand- 
mothers, and  the  science  of  modern  chemistry. 
It  means  much  tasting  and  no  wasting. 

It  means  English  thoroughness,  French  art, 
and  Arabian  hospitality. 


Does  it  not  also  mean  American 
heroism  and  cosmopolitanism  ? 

We  wish  also  to  inscribe  upon  the 
base  of  the  four-columned  temple  of 
Home  certain  other  words  from  our 
American  Ruskin  :  — 

If  a  man  wishes  to  acquaint  himself  with 
the  real  history  of  the  world,  with  the  true 
spirit  of  the  age,  he  must  not  go  first  to  the 
State-house  or  the  courtroom.  It  is  what  is 
done  and  suffered  in  the  house,  in  the  personal 
history,  that  has  for  us  the  profoundest  in- 
terest. 

In  proof  of  this  statement  we  refer 
to  an  experience  of  three  days  since. 
Meeting  an  able  and  dignified  profes- 
sor of  science,  who  occupies  a  chair 
in  a  well-known  college,  our  question 
was,  after  listening  to  a  most  eloquent 
statement  concerning  the  scientific  out- 
look for  the  new  century  :  "  Professor, 
in  what  branch  of  science  are  you  most 
interested  ? " 

The  reply  was  given  with  startling 
emphasis  :  "  In  the  science  of  cookery, 
and  where  to  find  a  competent  cook ;  " 
and  truly  one  may  see  clearly  the  mean- 
ing and  mission  of  beauty,  the  impor- 
tance of  music,  the  creative  force  of 
love,  and  at  the  same  time  be  often 
tempted  to  quote  the  tritely  familiar 
lines  :  — 


58 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


"  But    civilized    man  cannot    live    without 
cooks,"  etc. 

What  is  the  remedy  for  the  universal 
and  strong  aversion,  on  the  part  of 
young  women,  to  entering  upon  this 
useful  profession  ? 

Evidently,  dignify  the  occupation, 
and  cease  calling  every  one  who  en- 
gages in  this  realm  of  activity  or  ser- 
vice "  a  servant"  For  years  we  have 
emphasized  this  thought.  When  a 
request  came  to  assist  in  the  founding 
of  an  "  institution  for  the  training  of 
domestic  servants,"  our  answer  was, 
that  "  we  would  gladly  cooperate  in  a 
plan  for  dignifying  the  art  of  home- 
making,  and  elevating  the  profession 
of  domestic  science,  but  that  we  had 
no  aptitude  or  inclination  for  the  train- 
ing of  any  fellow-beings  for  servants." 

With  the  increasing  possibilities  and 
necessities  of  cooperation,  we  are  con- 
stantly emphasizing  the  dignity,  the 
joy,  and  the  duty  of  home-making  and 
home-keeping.  We  do  not  know  of 
any  more  basic  or  suggestive  state- 
ments to  set  afloat  than  those  con- 
tained in  the  following  lines  by  Joaquin 
Miller,  in  his  "  Building  of  the  City 
Beautiful ":  — 

What  sound  was  that  ?  A  pheasant's  whir? 

What  stroke  was  that  ?  Lean  low  thine  ear. 

Is  that  the  stroke  of  carpenter, 

That  far,  faint  echo  that  we  hear  ? 

Is  that  the  sound  that  sometime  Bedouins 

tell, 
Of  hammer  stroke  as  from  His  hand  it  fell  ? 

It  is  the  stroke  of  carpenter, 
Through  eighteen  hundred  years  and  more 
Still  sounding  down  the  hallowed  stir 
Of  patient  toil,  as  when  He  wore 
The  leathern  dress, —  the  echo  of  a  sound 
That    thrills   for   aye   the    toiling,    senate 
ground. 

Hear  Mary  weaving  ?     Listen;  hear  — 
The  thud  of  loom  at  weaving-time 
In  Nazareth.     I  wTreathe  this  clear 


Tradition  with  my  lowly  rhyme. 
Believing  everywhere  that  she  may  hear 
The  sound  of  toil,  sweet  Mary  bends  an  ear. 

Yea,  this  the  toil  that  Jesus  knew, 
Yet  we  complain  if  we  must  bear. 
Are  we  more  dear  ?     Are  we  more  true  ? 
Give  us,  O  God,  and  do  not  spare ! 
Give  us  to  bear,  as  Christ  and  Mary  bore 
With  toil  by  leaf -girt  Nazareth  of  yore. 

Turning  from  the  poets  and  philos- 
ophers to  one  of  our  philanthropic 
and  scientific  women,  Dr.  Sarah  Hacket 
Stevenson,  we  remember  that  she  sub- 
mitted the  following  thought  to  a  brill- 
iant coterie  of  women  :  "  Someone,  in 
attempting  to  criticize  '  The  Angelus,' 
calle4  it  the  apotheosis  of  potatoes ; 
let  us  accept  the  definition,  if  you 
please,  and  admit  that  one  great  need 
of  our  world  is  the  idealization  of  the 
humblest  things  in  life.  And  who  is 
to  do  this  if  our  women  fail?  Now, 
more  than  ever  before,  do  we  need  the 
apotheosis  of  quiet,  honest  life."  If 
Dr.  Stevenson  would  accept  an  amend- 
ment, we  would  add,  "  of  joyous,  enthu- 
siastic, simple,  but  artistic  life."  In 
these  days  of  the  craze  for  games,  and 
winning  prizes,  would  that  we  could 
distinctly  image,  for  every  home-maker, 
the  opportunity  for  manifesting  skill  in 
the  great  game  of  home-making,  and  the 
countless  value  and  unimagined  radi- 
ance of  a  happy,  harmonious  day,  se- 
cured to  an  otherwise  despairing  and 
unhappy  household  ! 

Let  us  banish  from  our  dining-rooms 
the  horrors  —  ofttimes  unduly  empha- 
sized by  some  morning  journals ;  let 
us  key  the  day  to  the  health-giving  vi- 
brations of  joyous,  grateful  song ;  let 
us  inscribe  upon  our  walls  that  sugges- 
tive line  of  Jean  Ingelow's, — 

"Joy  is  the  grace  we  say  to  God.'1'' 

Home-making  is  not  only  a  science : 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


159 


t  is  an  art,  a  philosophy,  a  creation. 
The  creation  of  a  joyous,  harmonious, 
altruistic  home  is  a  work  sacred  enough 
to  win  an  angel  from  her  harp  or  a 
monarch  from  his  throne. 


As  we  image  the  oncoming  century, 
let  us  create  the  picture  of  a  planet  in 
which  there  shall  be  no  childless  home, 
or  homeless  child,  and  where  love  shall 
be  the  fulfilling  of  all  law. 


WHERE  SHE  LEARNED  IT. 

By  Helen  Campbell. 


"  If  she  wasn't  a  Unitarian  I  should 
say  she  had  got  religion,"  said  Aunt 
Maria,  slowly,  as  if  considering  if  any- 
thing at  all  corresponding  to  this  proc- 
ess existed  in  that  denomination.  "  I 
never  saw  a  human  being  more  changed. 
Just  as  quiet  as  she  used  to  be  ner- 
vous. The  most  nervous  woman  in 
the  whole  Ellis  family,  and  I  do  sup- 
pose there  isn't  a  more  nervous  one 
in  the  State  of  New  Jersey.  It's  a 
wearing  State,  I  admit;  what  with  mos- 
quitoes, and  damp  and  mildew  in  a 
house,  enough  to  keep  you  busy  year 
in  and  year  out,  to  say  nothing  of  some 
of  the  laws  that  are  remnants  of  the 
Dark  Ages  and  nothing  else,  though 
that  is  what  we  are  taught  to  look  for 
in  New  Jersey.  It  isn't  mental  sci- 
ence, for  she  won't  hear  a  word  of 
that,  though  she  reads  books  that  are 
something  like  it.  But  she's  different, 
and  it  is  a  very  peaceful  family.  The 
wrinkle  between  John's  eyes  is  smoothed 
out,  and  he  laughs  just  as  he  used  to. 
The  last  time  I  was  here,  two  years 
ago,  he  barely  smiled,  and  just  seemed 
to  hold  on  to  himself.  And  I  said 
then,  what  I  believe  more  and  more, 
—  that  you  get  dyspepsia  in  a  house, 
where  the  mistress  is  that  high-strung 
that  there  isn't  an  atom  of  anything  in 


it  that  isn't  dancing  to  match.  You 
needn't  laugh,  Serena.  It  is  true.  I 
believe  every  biscuit  and  slice  of  bread 
was  just  condensed  nervousness,  and 
that's  the  reason  the  children  behaved 
so  like  witches.  They  are  good  as 
gold  now.  I  wouldn't  ask  better  chil- 
dren. They  have  a  way  with  them  just 
like  their  mother's  before  she  went  off 
the  handle.  She's  on  it  again,  and  all 
right." 

Aunt  Maria  paused,  and  looked 
about,  as  if  the  scene  had  taken  on 
new  characteristics  also.  Jersey  laws 
might  be  obnoxious,  but  Jersey  scenery, 
here  in  the  hills,  held  a  charm  that 
ought  to  mean  quiet  for  even  a  lunatic, 
much  more  a  rational  human  being. 
Aunt  Maria  herself  was  very  distinctly 
New  England  in  voice  and  aspect ;  a 
woman  of  "faculty,"  it  was  evident, 
with  shrewd,  kindly  gray  eyes,  and  a 
mouth  that  shut  with  a  snap,  yet  opened 
with  a  smile  so  genuine  and  friendly 
that  one  felt  sure  good  nature  would 
always  be  uppermost.  The  little  old 
lady  who  faced  her,  and  who  knit  in- 
dustriously on  a  seamed  washcloth, 
preserved  a  discreet  silence,  even  at 
the  fling  at  the  Ellis  family,  of  which 
she  was  the  only  member  at  present 
near  enough  to  rise  in  defence  of  the 


i6o 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


temperament  in  question.  But  she 
knew  Aunt  Maria,  and  waited  for  any 
further  summary  of  what  her  view  had 
become  in  the  year  since  they  had 
met.  This  great  house,  always  open 
to  stray  members  of  the  family,  meant 
an  ease  of  living  New  England  sel- 
dom knows ;  and,  whatever  the  difficulty 
might  have  been  as  to  nerves  and  its 
mistress,  at  least  she  had  always  made 
her  guests  welcome,  and  spared  no 
trouble  to  give  them  pleasure. 

Something  of  this  may  have  been 
in  the  little  old  lady's  atmosphere,  for 
Aunt  Maria  turned  suddenly.  "  I'm 
not  blaming  her,  Celestia,  and  you 
ought  to  know  it.  There  isn't  a  better 
woman  under  the  canopy.  But  I  tell 
you  things  taste  different,  and  she  looks 
as  young  as  she  did  ten  years  ago. 
I'm  a  good  mind  to  ask  her  what  is 
going  on,  only  it  might  seem  sort  of 
impudent.  I  talk  a  good  deal,  but  I 
do  let  folks  alone,  and  you  know  it. 
But  I  don't  suppose  wild  horses  would 
drag  it  out  of  you,  unless  you  made  up 
your  mind  to  let  them.  The  point  is, 
that  I  take  it  for  another  proof  of  what 
I  hold  to, —  that  the  mood  you  are  in, 
and  the  way  you  eat  your  food,  makes 
it  good  or  bad  for  you ;  and  that  is  half 
the  secret  of  things  not  agreeing.  The 
Lord  hasn't  made  anything  that  won't 
agree,  if  you  know  how  to  cook  and 
eat  it  with  a  quiet  mind.  I  won't  say 
that  there  are  not  combinations  that 
no  reasonable  human  being  should 
ever  touch.  But  good,  simple,  perfect 
food  can't  give  you  dyspepsia,  if  you 
have  learned  how  to  eat.  If  Margaret 
were  out  here  now  I  should  ask  her — " 

"What  would  you  ask  her?"  said  a 
voice  near  at  hand,  and  a  light,  girlish 
figure  in  white  came  through  the  long 
window,  and   settled   into  a  hammock 


near  at  hand,  with  a  happy  look  tow- 
ard the  sea,  blue  in  the  distance,  and 
the  beautiful  lines  of  the  Jersey  High- 
lands. For  this  was  a  seaside  piazza, 
on  this  lovely  Jersey  coast, —  a  piazza 
planned  for  peace,  with  awnings,  shad- 
'owy  corners  where  hammocks  swung, 
above  them  a  bookshelf,  set  in  between 
the  windows  and  filled  with  light  litera- 
ture,—  in  short,  with  all  resources  for 
rest  or  play.  Both  were  in  the  air,  for 
the  face  of  the  pretty  mistress  carried 
the  sense  of  capacities  in  many  direc- 
tions, yet  with  it  the  look  of  quiet  her 
guests  had  noted. 

"Wait  a  moment,"  she  said.  "I 
have  been  meaning  to  tell  you  how  it 
began.  But  here  comes  Mrs.  Botsford. 
You  remember  her,  Aunt  Maria  ?  Ten 
times  as  nervous  as  I,  I  used  to  think  ; 
and  she  remains  so.  She  says  it's  the 
American  climate,  and  that  we  are  the 
worst  cooks  in  the  world.  But  that 
could  be  mended,  if  one  went  at  it  in 
the  right  way." 

Mrs.  Botsford,  a  worried  -  looking, 
haggard  woman,  recuperating  from  too 
much  club,  sank  into  a  steamer  chair 
and  threw  off  her  hat. 

"  How  can  you  look  so  calm  and 
comfortable?"  she  said  with  a  groan. 
"  I  am  worn  out  with  the  mosquitoes 
and  everything  else.  I  used  to  think 
you  as  nervous  as  myself,  and  that  is 
saying  the  utmost  in  that  direction. 
But  you  have  grown  as  placid  as  a 
Quaker.  There  isn't  any  Quaker  blood 
anywhere,  is  there  ?  Of  course  the 
climate  is  the  most  trying  one  in  the 
world." 

Mrs.  Andrews  laughed. 

"  Climate  ?  Yes,  that  has  its  own 
series  of  tendencies.  But  if  anyone 
were  taught  in  the  beginning  how  to 
handle   them,  there  would  be  less  ar- 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


161 


raignment  of  what  is  really  only  a  side 
issue.  We  count  so  many  things  in- 
evitable that  are  absolutely  in  our  own 
hands.  Not  to  be  didactic,  however, 
I'll  change  to  the  story  of  how  it  be- 
gan, for  I  see  you  all  want  to  know 
it:  — 

"  I  suppose  that  May-day  was  really 
one  of  the  most  aggravating  in  all  my 
life.  Everything  had  gone  wrong,  from 
the  cook's  giving  warning  to  the  spoil- 
ing of  a  dress  by  a  conscienceless  dress- 
maker. I  had  railed  and  cried,  scolded 
the  children,  snapped  at  John,  and 
generally  driven  harmony  out  of  doors, 
and,  in  a  state  of  hopeless  subjection 
to  myself  and  my  small  miseries,  went 
out  and  up  Broadway,  merely  to  get 
away  from  myself ;  and,  as  if  led  by 
the  hand  of  my  guardian  angel,  I 
walked  in  at  Twenty-eighth  Street,  or 
intended  to  walk  in,  to  a  little  shop, 
but  took  the  wrong  door,  and  found 
myself  face  to  face  with  the  tenant  of 
what,  save  for  a  glass  case  and  a  few 
chairs,  appeared  to  be  an  empty  room. 
It  was  this  tenant  that  held  me  spell- 
bound.    On  the  wall  hung  a  placard, — 

PERFORMANCES    OF    THIRTY 
TRAINED    FLEAS. 

Before  me  stood  a  benevolent  patri- 
arch, white-haired,  dignified,  and  irre- 
proachably dressed,  and  on  his  face  a 
smile  as  serene  as  a  baby's.  His  look 
was  a  welcome.  His  atmosphere  was 
peace.  He  a  trainer  of  fleas  !  At  the 
thought  I  burst  into  a  wild  laugh,  and 
turned  to  fly. 

"  'I  understand,'  he  said.  'Others 
have  laughed  before,  and  perhaps  it  is 
not  to  be  wondered  at.  I  laugh  my- 
self, at  times.  Yet  I  have '  always  re- 
garded my  work  in  this  somewhat  sin- 
gular direction   as  my  contribution   to 


the  cause  of  education.  To  eradicate 
the  hop  from  even  the  most  persistent 
flea  strikes  at  the  very  roots  of  his 
being.  Precisely  so  is  it  with  the 
American  child,  who  is  mentally  and 
physically,  here,  there,  everywhere, 
with  even  less  concentration  than  the 
flea,  and  apparently  as  little  hope  of 
securing  it.  Again  and  again  have  I 
been  assured  by  tearful  mothers  that 
so  it  was  with  their  own  Charles  or 
James.  Always,  you  see,  the  problem 
of  the  individual  and  his  tendency;  the 
innate,  instinctive  hop  in  him,  and  in 
the  flea ;  its  reduction,  its  transmuta- 
tion, the  problem  of  the  hour. 

"  '  How  did  I  answer  it  ?  I  will  tell 
you.  The  pillbox,  one  destroyer  of 
mankind,  I  brought  to  his  rescue.  I 
took  from  it  its  top  and  bottom,  and 
substituted  clear  watch  crystals,  put- 
ting in  it  a  flea.  He,  having  no  knowl- 
edge of  the  transparent  nature  of  glass, 
supposed  himself  still  in  the  outer 
world,  and  hopped  the  hop  of  one  who 
means  to  disappear  in  space.  Expe- 
riencing a  violent  knock-down,  he  re- 
mained passive  a  second,  then  collected 
his  wits  and  hopped  again.  And  then 
rage  came,  and  his  day  went  in  hops 
of  fury;  hops  and  knockdowns,  knock- 
downs and  hops,  each  one  filled  with 
an  always  baffled  tempest  of  inten- 
tion. 

"'Did  he  learn  that  day?  By  no 
means.  It  was  a  full  five  days  before 
his  reluctant  brain-cells  accommodated 
themselves  to  facts,  and  built  up  or- 
ganic reminders  of  the  impossible.  Im- 
mutable law  had  its  grip  upon  him. 
He  recognized  it  and  hopped  no  more. 
Look  at  him,  madam.  Look  at  them 
all.  Prick  him  with  a  needle.  He 
does  not  hop,  you  see;  he  walks  away. 
Having    learned    this    (and    he    has 


l62 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


learned  it),  he  will  never  hop  again  ; 
all  other  problems  of  his  education  are 
easy.  He  has  held  still  long  enough 
to  realize  that  that  is  the  only  method 
with  life.  You  may  do  with  him  what 
you  will.' 

"  The  gentle  philosopher  showed  me 
their  accomplishments.  I  saw  as  in  a 
dream,  paid  my  quarter,  and  walked 
home. 

"  'AH  my  life  I  have  persisted  in  hop- 


ping in  my  pillbox,'  I  said  inwardly; 
'  yea,  and  have  compelled  my  world 
to  hop  with  me.  Henceforth  I  shall 
walk,'  and  walked  I  have.  For  I  saw 
myself  and  my  frantic  skips  as  per- 
haps my  angel  had  done, —  half  smil- 
ing, half  with  tears ;  and  there  came  a 
new  meaning  to  the  old  words,  '  Walk 
softly  before  the  Lord.'  Preposterous 
as  it  seems,  it  cured  me ;  and  what 
more  will  you  have?" 


YULE-TIDE  DECORATIONS. 

By  Eleanor  M.  Lucas. 


Twine  the  laurel  and  the  bay 
With  holly  berries  gay, 
Deck  the  walls  with  garlands  bright, 
On  merry,  merry  Christmas  night." 


There  is  nothing  more  delightful  in 
housekeeping  than  decorating  the  ta- 
ble, and  already  the  dainty  housewife 
is  pondering  the  matter  of  appropriate 
floral  display  for  the  time-honored  fes- 
tival. 

It  is  of  little  moment  what  materials 
are  used,  so  that  the  device  be  novel 
and  appropriate,  and  produce  a  good 
color  effect. 

The  foundation  of  all  artistic  results 
lies  in  the  pure  white  damask,  on  which 
every  bit  of  color  will  stand  forth  as 
only  a  perfect  background  can  make  it. 

Red  is  unquestionably  the  true  color 
for  Christmas  decorations,  if  we  would 
make  them  distinctive  ;  and  this  bright 
color  gives  always  a  suggestion  of 
warmth  and  cheeriness. 

A  most  charming  centrepiece  is  in 
the  form  of  a  star.  Directly  under  the 
chandelier,   bedecked  with  laurel   and 


holly,  place  the  table  draped  with  white 
linen.  In  the  middle  put  a  tall  and 
graceful  crystal  or  silver  candelabra, 
trimmed  with  greenery  and  holly  ber- 
ries, each  of  its  lights  shaded  with 
gauze  or  fluffy  paper  shades  of  a  bright 
scarlet. 

At  the  base  a  large  flat  star  radiates 
from  the'  candelabra  in  five  points.  A 
tin  form  serves  as  a  foundation ;  this  is 
packed  with  damp  moss,  and  then  filled 
with  scarlet  geraniums,  offset  with  a 
fringe  of  feathery  green.  The  little 
flowerets  of  the  geranium  must  be 
divided  from  the  parent  stem,  and 
packed  quite  compactly  ;  but  avoid  all 
crowding. 

Placed  about  this  centrepiece  are 
four  small  flat  dishes,  containing  alter- 
nately little  mounds  of  ruby  jellies 
and  candied  chestnuts  piled  cannon- 
ball  fashion.     As  far  as  is  practicable 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


163 


the  table  service  should  be  china  orna- 
mented with  narrow  red  bands,  supple- 
mented by  the  usual  cut  glass  and 
silver ;  and  if  one  of  those  fascinating 
little  floral  paper  boxes,  the  top  of 
which  simulates  a  huge  poppy,  stands 
beside  each  plate,  the  whole  effect  will 
be  singularly  bright  and  joyous. 

The  star  may  be  filled  also  with 
holly  berries,  with  a  deep  border  of 
laurel  leaves ;  or  another  variation  of 
this  idea  is  to  form  the  star  of  heavily 
frosted  evergreens,  bordered  with  holly 
berries.  The  evergreen  is  frosted  by 
brushing  it  first  with  a  rather  thin  solu- 
tion of  gum  arabic,  followed  by  a  heavy 
sprinkling  of  mica  or  diamond  dust. 

While  holly  and  mistletoe  for  many 
decades  held  almost  undisputed  sway 
as  Christmas  decorations,  happily  a 
dearth  of  the  above  does  not  necessa- 
rily mean  rooms  destitute  of  bright 
berries  and  greenery.  Their  substitutes 
are  numerous.  Lycopodium,  familiarly 
known  as  ground  (or  running)  pine,  has 
a  light,  feathery  effect,  and  is  lovely  for 
festooning  and  drapery ;  or  it  can  be 
made  into  flat  wreaths  and  tied  with 
smart  bows  of  broad  red  ribbon.  These 
wreaths  may  be  placed  at  the  four 
corners  of  the  table,  or  laid  around 
the  candelabra  placed  in  the  centre ; 
or  they  may  be  used  at  two  corners 
diagonally,  with  baskets  of  rosy-cheeked 
apples  rising  from  their  fluffy  depths. 

At  each  place  a  bunch  of  holly,  tied 
with  narrow  green  ribbons,  and  the 
name  card  are  placed.  These  cards 
are  easily  made  round,  with  a  wreath 
of  holly  leaves  on  the  edge,  painted 
in  evergreen  and  outlined  in  silver  with 
silver  lettering. 

Shield  the  lights  with  white  or  scar- 
let shades ;  never  use  green,  as  light 
through    this   color    is    not    becoming. 


Small  white  flowers  are  artistic  with 
Christmas  greens.  Candytuft,  sweet 
alyssum,  ageratum,  and  gypsophila  are 
prime  requisites  with  cypress,  red 
cedar,  and  hemlock,  and  remove  that 
stiff  look  the  latter  ordinarily  wear. 
These  flowers  are  easily  grown  in  any 
window  garden,  and  will  thrive  and 
bloom  all  winter  with  little  care. 

A  pretty  fashion  is  to  drape  pictures, 
buffet  and  wall  ornament  with  heavy 
ropes  of  evergreen.  The  evergreen 
ropes,  studded  with  sprays  of  gypso- 
phila, are  charming.  This  little  flower 
retains  form  and  color  well  even  after 
it  is  dried. 

A  pretty  scheme  for  a  doorway  is  to 
fasten  a  pole  across  the  opening  about 
eighteen  inches  from  the  top;  hang 
from  it  ropes  of  evergreen,  forming  a 
portiere,  and  loop  back  with  scarlet 
ribbons.  In  the  space  above  a  small 
hoop  wound  with  evergreen  is  hung, 
and  from  the  centre  hangs  a  light. 
Where  electric  light  is  not  available  a 
lamp  is  made  as  follows  :  Take  a  jelly 
glass  having  a  recurving  rim  ;  .fasten  a 
piece  of  wire  about  the  rim,  with  wire 
to  suspend  by;  cover  the  glass  and  wire 
with  greenery,  and  fill  the  glass  two- 
thirds  with  clear  water.  Take  a  piece 
of  candle  the  height  of  the  glass,  and 
insert  in  the  end  a  wire  nail.  Care 
must  be  taken  that  the  nail  be  of  just 
the  right  weight  to  carry  the  candle 
entirely  under  the  water;  that  is,  the 
water  must  be  even  with  the  top  of  the 
candle  without  wetting  the  wick.  Then 
light  the  wick,  and  the  candle  will  burn 
to  the  very  end,  lasting  for  several 
hours.  This  is  better  than  floating  a 
wick  in  cork  on  oil,  as  the  oil  always 
has  an  unpleasant  odor. 

Pretty  colored  lamps  are  made  by 
covering  the    glasses   with  red,   green, 


164 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


and  yellow  tissue  paper.  These,  when 
arranged  among  green  branches,  are 
charming. 

A  very  appropriate  fancy  for  the 
centrepiece  of  the  table  is  a  floral 
chimney.  This  may  rise  from  a  bank 
of  frosted  evergreen  or  white  ageratum 
bordered  with  laurel  leaves  or  sprigs  of 
cypress.  The  chimney  should  be  about 
ten  inches  high,  covered  with  brick-red 
geraniums  or  carnations,  the  white 
mortar  lines  simulated  with  the  wee 
white  blossoms  of  sweet  alyssum. 
About  the  top  of  the  chimney  a  cap  is 
formed  of  white  flowers  to  represent  a 
snowy  mound,  and  Santa  Claus  in 
miniature  is  perched  on  one  corner,  his 
basket  laden  with  white  and  red  blos- 
soms. The  foundation  of  the  chimney 
may  be  of  wire  or  heavy  cardboard. 
This  is  thickly  padded  with  damp  moss 
secured  with  stitches  of  coarse  thread. 
The  blossoms  are  imbedded  in  the 
moss,  and  held  in  place  with  fine  wire 
such  as  florists  employ, —  an  arrange- 
ment much  easier  to  carry  out  than  to 
describe.  The  mound  at  the  base  of 
the  chimney  is  built  of  sorghum  moss 
or  wet  sand,  in  which  the  heads  of 
ageratum  are  thrust.  The  stems  must 
be  cut  quite  short ;  arrange  the  flowers 
compactly,  but  still  allow  each  bloom 
to  bask  in  its  own  purity  unruffled 
by  its  neighbor. 

With  an  arrangement  like  this  in  the 
centre,  tiny  glass  sledges  should  be 
used  for  the  stuffed  dates,  almonds,  and 
other  dainty  kickshaws.  These  may  be 
had  in  Bohemian  glass,  and  are  quite 
inexpensive.  If  favors  are  desired,  let 
them  be  bisque  figures  of  Santa  Claus, 
his  liliputian  pack  freighted  with  choice 
bonbons. 

Festoon  the  chandelier  with  holly  and 
mistletoe  covered  with  its  myriad  pearly 


fruits,  otherwise  this  plant  is  coarse 
and  ungainly  and  not  at  all  pretty.  Its 
historical  associations,  however,  are 
such  that  it  will  ever  be  affectionately 
regarded  by  the  young  people  at  Christ- 
mas time. 

A  bright  effect  is  produced  by  simu- 
lating the  yule-log.  These  come  in  wire, 
ready  to  be  covered  with  blossoms  over 
damp  moss.  Covered  with  bright  red 
blossoms  and  laid  on  a  bed  of  frosted 
evergreen,  the  effect  is  quite  unique. 
Form  the  evergreen  in  the  shape  of  an 
elongated  diamond,  using  a  tin  for  the 
purpose,  and  border  it  with  holly  ber- 
ries. At  each  corner  of  the  diamond 
place  a  small  candle-holder.  Odd  ones 
are  made  by  taking  a  round  board 
about  five  inches  in  diameter ;  fasten 
this  to  a  standard  nine  inches  high,  at 
the  base  of  which  fasten  another  disk 
of  board,  to  give  a  solid  foundation. 
The  standard  may  be  made  from  a 
piece  of  broom  -  handle.  Cover  all 
thickly  with  evergreen  ;  around  the  rim 
of  the  tf  *  disk  fasten  small  candle- 
holders,  inilar  to  those  used  on 
Christmas  trees,  and  in  these  place 
the  candles. 

Above  the  table,  suspended  from  the 
chandeliers,  swings  the  Christmas  bell. 
This  is  made  of  three  hoops  of  dimin- 
ishing sizes,  hung  together  with  stout 
twine,  the  smallest  hoop  at  the  top  and 
the  largest  at  the  bottom.  Line  wiLi 
white  or  scarlet  cheese-cloth  in  fluffy 
folds  and  cover  with  evergreen,  holly, 
or  bright  scarlet  flowers.  Evergreen, 
plain  or  frosted,  is  the  most  enduring, 
as  flowers  wilt  so  quickly.  The  clapper 
of  the  bell  may.  be  made  of  holly,  or, 
prettier  still,  use  the  little  candle  lamp 
described,  covering  it  with  red  tissue 
paper  or  cheese-cloth,  and  suspend  it 
to  serve  as  a  tongue  to  the  bell. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


165 


Always  cover  the  Christmas  bell  with 
red  or  green,  or  any  preferred  color  for 
that  matter.  Never  use  white  ;  that  is 
for  the  marriage  bell.  At  the  top  of 
the  bell  secure  four  long  ropes  of  ever- 
green ;  bring  these  coils  down  to  the 
corners  of  the  table,  where  they  end  in 
pretty  wreaths.  The  effect  produced  is 
of  a  vacant  tent  or  a  canopy,  and  is 
extremely  artistic. 

Place  before  each  cover  a  dainty 
basket  of  spun  sugar,  filled  with  tiny 
sticks  of  crisp  red  candy.  At  each 
cover  may  be  white  hand-painted  cards 
of  some  yule-tide  emblem  with  an  ap- 
propriate quotation.  For  instance,  with 
a  chime  of  bells  use  the  following :  — 

"  So  list  with  hearts  by  love  prepared 
While  Christmas  bells  are  ringing  ; 
Who  hath  his  feast  with  others  shared 
Shall  hear  the  angels  singing." 

"  In  December  ring 

Every  day  the  chimes." 

Other  emblems  and  quotations  are  :  — 


A    CHRISTMAS    PIE. 

Without  the  door  let  Sorrow  lie, 
And  if  for  cold  it  hap  to  die, 
We'll  bury  it  in  a  Xmas  pie, 
And  evermore  be  merry." 


SPRAYS    OF    HOLLY. 

"  We  know  this  season  must  be  merry, 
When  those  long  severed  meet  again 
Beneath  the  white  and  scarlet  berry." 
Or,— 

"  Be  merry  all,  be  merry  all, 
With  holly  dress  the  festive  hall, 
Prepare  the  song,  the  feast,  the  ball, 
To  welcome  Merry  Christmas." 

Write  "  Merry  Christmas  "  across  one 
corner  of  the  card,  and  below  the  fol- 
lowing :  — 

"  The  words  are  blithe  and  full  of  cheer; 
They  never  pall  on  any  hearer, 
But,  borne  along  from  year  to  year, 

From  year  to  year,  sound  ever  dearer." 

Or,- 

"  A  rhyme  for  Xmas,  ye  good  folk  all, 
A  song  for  the  time  o'  year ! 
Make  merry  music  in  bower  and  hall 
With  hey  for  a  day  of  cheer  !  " 


The  wisest  child  in  the  village  school 
Was  walking  out  in  the  evening  cool, 
When  she  spied  an  owl  in  a  tulip-tree, 
So  a  civil  "  Good  evening,  sir,"  said  she. 
But  it  gave  her  a  shock  (as  it  might  give  you) 
When  he   solemnly  answered:    "To -wit,   to- 
who  ? " 

"  Why,  to  you,  to  be   sure !  "    said  the  little 

maid ; 
"  But  you've  made  a  mistake,  sir,  I'm  afraid. 
I  don't  know  what  you  mean  by  •  to  wit,' 
But  objective  is  'whom,'  I  am  sure  of  it. 
The  story-books  say  you're  a  very  wise  fowl, 
But  that  was  a  blunder,  Mr.  Owl." 


66 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


AMERICAN  POTTERY. 

By  James  S.   Dawes. 

On  the  day  when  man,  walking  upon  the  clayey  soil,  softened  by  inundations  or  rain,  first 
observed  that  the  earth  retained  the  prints  of  his  footsteps,  the  plastic  art  was  discovered ;  and 
when  lighting  a  fire  to  warm  his  limbs  or  to  cook  his  food,  he  remarked  that  the  surface  of  the 
hearth  changed  its  nature  and  its  color,  that  the  reddened  clay  became  sonorous,  imperviojis, 
and  hardened  in  its  new  shape,  the  art  7cas  revealed  to  him  of  making  vessels  fit  to  contain 
liquids.  —  JACQUEMART. 


American  women  are  lovers  of  fine 
pottery,  and  a  foreign  stamp  is  not 
necessary  to  prove  to  them  its  worth. 
It  is  not  a  question  with  them  whether 
an  article  is  English,  French,  or  Ameri- 
can, but  whether  it  has  merit. 

Within  the  next  few  years,  America 
is  destined  to  lead  the  world  in  ceram- 
ics ;  even  to-day,  when  we  wish  some- 
thing  of   merit   in    pottery,   we    select 


VASE. 
Ceramic  Art  Company. 


quite  as  many  articles  that  are  made  in 
America  as  we  do  of  foreign  production. 
There   is  no  necessity  for  the  selection 


of  imported  china  by  decorators,  when 
our  own  manufacturers  are  producing 
wares  for  ornamentation  in  sufficient 
variety,  and  of  equal,  if  not  superior, 
excellence  to  any  that  are  imported; 
and  we  are  fully  capable  of  producing 
table  services  equal  to  the  best  that 
can  be  obtained  from  foreign  factories, 
in  quality,  and  in  design  superior.  It 
is  a  fact  that  some  of  our  best  designs 
have  been  copied  by  English  manufac- 
turers. In  South  Carolina  and  Florida, 
we  are  fortunate  to  possess  the  finest 
of  china  clay. 

About  the  year  1685,  the  first  pottery, 
for  the  manufacture  of  white  earthen- 
ware in  this  country,  was  built  at  Bur- 
lington, N.  J.  One  of  the  first  in  New 
England  was  erected  in  Weston,  Mass., 
in  1765.  As  early  as  1793,  pottery 
was  made  in  Bennington,  Vt.  Though 
a  few  potteries  were  built  from  time  to 
time,  yet,  in  i860,  there  were  not  twenty 
factories  making  white  ware.  To-day 
there  are  nearly  one  hundred ;  this 
shows  the  remarkable  growth  of  the 
industry  in  the  last  forty  years. 

The  World's  Fair  at  Chicago  was  an 
object  lesson  in  ceramic  art,  and  it  has 
resulted  in  a  wonderful  development 
of  the  industry  from  an  artistic  stand- 
point. The  development  of  ceramic  art 
in  Cincinnati  (where  the  celebrated 
Rookwood  ware  is  made)  'has  been 
continuous  since  1879. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


167 


The  Rookwood  Pottery  is  distinctly 
an  American  institution,  and  was  es- 
tablished by  the  intelligent  and  well- 
directed  efforts  of  a  woman,  and  Rook- 
wood ware  interests  all  American  pat- 
rons of  art. 

The  Rookwood  works  were  estab- 
lished in  1880,  by  Mrs.  Maria  Long- 
worth  Nichols  (now  Mrs.  Bellamy 
Storer),  whose  husband  was  recently 
appointed  minister  to  Spain.  She 
carried  on  her  work  for  two  years  in  a 
white-ware  pottery,  and  then  built  a 
place  of  her  own.     The  name  selected 


tiger's  eye  and  goldstone,  which  glisten 
in  the  light.  The  shapes  produced  are 
mainly  variations  of  classic  forms,  pos- 
sessing marked  individuality  of  treat- 
ment. The  artists  employed  have  been 
educated  in  the  art  schools  of  Cincin- 
nati. 

Fifteen  years  ago,  Rookwood  was 
hardly  known  outside  of  Cincinnati. 
To-day  its  beautiful  ceramic  creations 
may  be  found  in  almost  every  house  of 
culture  and  refinement,  and  in  every  art 
museum  in  the  land. 

Rookwood  was  the  conception  of  a 


S55 


ROOKWOOD   POTTERY. 


for  the  works  (Rookwood)  was  that  of 
the  country  place  of  Mr.  Longworth 
(her  father)  at  East  Walnut  Hill,  in  the 
suburbs  of  the  city,  so  called  on  account 
of  the  great  number  of  crows  which 
frequent  the  adjacent  woods. 

Mrs.  Nichols  surrounded  herself  with 
able  artists,  and  they  have  produced 
beautiful  specimens,  distinguished  by 
the  tinting  and  harmonious  blending  of 
the  grounds  beneath  the  heavy  trans- 
parent color  glazes  in  rich  tones  of 
black,  red,  yellow,  olive,  green,  brown, 
and  amber  of  great  brilliancy,  mellow- 
ness, depth,  and  strength.  The  highest 
achievement  in  glazing  are  the  so-called 


talented  woman,  where  original  and 
conscientious  work  is  made  paramount 
to  commercial  consideration.  The 
ware  produced  at  Rookwood  is  a  true 
faience,  treated  with  painted  slip  dec- 
orations under  the  glaze. 

Belleek  takes  its  name  from  a  town 
in  County  Fermanagh,  Ireland,  where  it 
was  first  made.  It  is  celebrated  for  its 
thinness,  extreme  lightness  of  body, 
and  its  lovely  iridescent  or  pearly  glaze, 
variously  tinted. 

In  many  respects  American  Belleek 
is  superior  to  the  Irish.  It  is  lighter 
in  weight  and  shows  more  delicacy  in 
coloring.     A   dozen  cups   and  saucers 


1 68 


THE  BOSTON  COOKIXG-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


(twenty-four  pieces')  of  the  ordinary 
size  have  been  produced  as  thin  as  the 
shell  of  a  robin's  egg,  weighing  only 
one  pound,  an  average  of  two-thirds 
an  ounce  to  each  piece.  A  great  many 
pieces  possess  artistic  merit.  American 
Belleek  is  produced  at  Trenton,  X.  J. 
It  may  be  of  interest  to  some  to 
know  how  the  thinness  of  body  is  ob- 
tained by  what  is  called  the  casting 
method;  viz.,  by  pouring  liquid   clay. 


turers  a  line  of  china  specialties,  such 
as  salad  bowls,  compitiers,  comb  and 
brush  trays,  etc.,  which  for  design  and 
coloring  are  much  superior  to  the 
German  make,  the  shapes  being  more 
artistic. 

The  term  "  Queensware,"  that  is  now 
quite  generally  used  in  the  Middle  and 
Southern  States,  to  designate  all  kinds 
of  pottery  ware,  was  given  to  an  ivory 
or  cream  colored  ware,  first  made  by 


Ceramic  Art  Company. 


or  slip,  into  a  hollow  mould  and 
allowing  it  to  stand  for  a  few  moments, 
until  the  plaster  has  absorbed  the  super- 
abundant moisture  from  the  parts  in 
the  contact,  forming  a  thin  shell  of 
uniform  thickness,  which  adheres  to 
the  mould  after  the  slip  has  been 
emptied  out,  and  it  has  been  allowed 
to  stand  a  while  longer  before  being 
removed. 

At  East  Liverpool.  O.,  the  great  pot- 
tery centre  of  this  country,  is  now 
being    produced    by  several    manufac- 


Josiah  Wedgwood  for  Queen  Charlotte 
about  1762. 

Majolica  derived  its  name  from  a 
peculiar-lustred  ware  thought  to  have 
originated  in  the  Island  of  Majorca. 
Some  beautiful  pieces  have  been  made 
within  the  past  thirty-five  years,  but 
the  quality  was  gradually  cheapened, 
until  it  has  become  a  drug  on  the 
market. 

Semi-porcelain,  of  which  we  produce 
so  much  in  this  country,  is  much  the 
color  of  china,  and  the  best  brands  are 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


169 


so  near    porcelain    as    to    show  trans- 
lucency  in  the  thin  parts. 

Parian  derives  its  name  from  its  re- 
semblance to  a  beautiful  ivory-tinted 
marble  found  in  the  Island  of  Paros.    It 


come  when  the  purchasing  public  are 
discriminating  in  favor  of  such  wares 
as  bear  the  marks  of  domestic  manu- 
facture, or  the  words  "  Made  in  Amer- 


CHAIR-BACK   CANDLESTICK. 
Ceramic  Art  Company. 


possesses  the  translucency  and  vitre- 
ous nature  of  porcelain,  but  is  seldom 
glazed. 

The  day  is  at  hand  when  the  stamp, 
"  Made  in  England  "  or  "  Made  in 
Germany."  will  not  be  necessary  to 
insure  the  sale  of  ceramic  productions 
in  this  country.     In  fact,  the  time  has 


"  The  leaves  that  nestle,  the  reeds  that  make 
A  whisper  by  each  stream  and  lake, 
The  saffron  dawn,  the  sunset  red, 
Are  painted  on  those  lovely  jars. 
Again  the  skylark  sings,  again 
The  stork,  the  heron,  and  the  crane 
Float  through  the  azure  overhead, 
The  counterfeit  and  counterpart 
Of  nature  reproduced  in  art.'''1 


170 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


SOME  DUTIES  OF  A  WAITRESS. 

By  Catherine  J.  Coolidge,  Drexel  Institute. 


Aside  from  her  duties  of  serving  the 
meals,  there  are  certain  matters  con- 
nected with  the  preparation  of  the  food 
which  a  waitress  is  required  to  know. 
Some  of  these  requirements  are  as 
follows  :  — 

1.  Salads. 

Washing  and  keeping  of  salad  plants. 
Salad    dressings ;     French    mayon- 
naise. 

2.  Bread.  Serving  breadsticks,  slic- 
ing bread  for  dinner,  breakfast,  and 
luncheon. 

3.  Butter.  Making  butter  balls  and 
rolls. 

4.  Slicing  cold  meats. 

5.  Beverages.  Coffee,  tea,  choco- 
late, cocoa,  iced  tea. 

Salads. 
Before  giving  recipes  and  directions 
for  the  preparation  of  salads,  it  is  well 
to  consider  the  value  contributed  to 
the  meal  by  the  salad  course.  When 
possible,  salad  should  form  one  of  the 
courses  of  every  dinner,  luncheon,  and 
supper.  The  lighter  salads,  such  as 
lettuce,  watercress,  tomato,  celery,  cu- 
cumber, etc.,  are  most  suitable  at  din- 
ner, because  they  do  not  add  substan- 
tially to  the  nutrition  —  that  is,  in  the 
way  meat  or  fish  salad  wculd  do.  It 
is  not  intended,  however,  to  state  that 
they  have  no  food  value,  because  of 
the  lack  of  the  "true"  food  principles. 
They  do  have  a  high  food  value,  be- 
cause these  fresh,  green  vegetables  con- 
tain a  large  amount  of  water  and  a 
good  supply  of  mineral  matter,  both  of 
which  food  principles  are  active  agents 
in  removing  waste   materials    (ashes) 


from  the  tissues.  Also,  the  fresh, 
attractive  appearance  of  salads  and 
their  refreshing  qualities  stimulate  the 
appetite.  This  is  why  they  are  espe- 
cially valuable  in  spring  and  summer. 

In  the  preparation  of  salads  five 
divisions  of  the  labor  may  be  made  :  — 

a.  Preparation  of  the  green  part  of 
the  salad. 

b.  Preparation  of  fish,  meat,  etc.,  for 
substantial  salads. 

c.  Preparation  of  the  salad  dressing. 

d.  Marinating  and  dressing  the  salad. 

e.  Garnishing  the  salad. 
Preparation  of  the  Green  Part  of  the 

Salad. 

Lettuce,  celery,  and  cress  should  be 
placed  in  fresh,  cold  water  as  soon  as 
received  from  the  market.  The  roots 
should  be  well  under  water. 

Prepare  the  green  of  the  salad  two 
or  three  hours  before  serving.  Separate 
lettuce  leaves  and  celery  stalks  from 
the  roots,  and  wash  them  in  several 
changes  of  clear,  cold  water,  until 
every  trace  of  earth  and  other  foreign 
matter  is  removed.  All  bruised  lettuce 
leaves  should  be  rejected,  but  those 
injured  only  on  the  edges  may  be 
trimmed  by  tearing  off  the  discolored 
portions. 

If  celery  is  "  rusty,"  scrape  it  with 
a  knife,  and,  if  tough,  remove  the 
coarse  strings  of  woody  fibre. 

Trim  the  dark,  tough  outside  from 
celery  roots,  cut  them  in  thin  slices, 
and  reserve  them  to  mix  with  the  salad, 
as  they  give  a  sweet  flavor. 

Remove  the  tips  and  green  portion  of 
the  celery,  and  cut  the  stalks  into  half- 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


71 


inch  pieces.  Keep  the  tips  for  garnish- 
ing. A  pretty  garnish  is  also  made  by 
curling  celery.  Cut  thick  celery  into 
two-inch  lengths.  Beginning  at  the  out- 
side of  the  stalks,  make  five  parallel  cuts 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  deep,  and  a 
corresponding  number  at  right  angles 
with  these.  Put  the  pieces  of  celery  in 
ice  water,  and  let  them  stand  several 
hours,  or  until  curled.  Both  ends  of 
the  celery  may  be  curled  if  desired. 

Cress,  nasturtium  leaves  and  stems 
may  be  washed  in  the  same  way  as  let- 
tuce and  celery,  If  wild  cress  is  used, 
it  is  necessary  to  remove  the  roots  and 
coarsest  stems.  When  the  salad  plants 
are  cleansed,  place  them  on  one-half  of 
a  clean,  dry  towel,  cover  with  the  other 
half  of  the  towel,  lift  by  the  corners, 
and  place  in  the  refrigerator  on  a  cake 
of  ice.  The  leaves  should  remain  on 
the  ice  an  hour  or  longer ;  they  will 
then  be  fresh  and  crisp. 

It  is  desirable  to  prepare  salad  plants 
as  soon  as  possible.  If  allowed  to 
stand  in  a  warm  room,  they  become 
lifeless,  and  it  is  almost  impossible  to 
revive  them. 

Tomatoes  should  be  placed  in  boiling 
water,  and  the  skins  and  stems  then 
removed.  Place  the  tomatoes  in  the 
refrigerator,  and  when  cold  cut  in 
quarter-inch  slices,  or,  if  very  small, 
serve  whole  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Cucumbers  should  be  washed  and 
placed  on  a  cake  of  ice  to  chill.  If 
freshly  gathered  and  allowed  to  chill  an 
hour  or  two,  they  will  be  found  crisp 
and  digestible.  If  placed  in  salted 
water,  they  will  become  withered  and 
tough.  Remove  slices  from  the  ends 
of  the  cucumbers  until  the  seeds  are 
reached,  then  pare  and  slice  as  thin  as 
possible,  or  cut  in  quarter-inch  cubes. 


Preparation  of  Fish,  Meat,  etc.,  for 
Substantial  Salads. 

Fish,  meat,  vegetables,  nuts,  and  fruit 
may  be  used  as  the  foundation  for  sub- 
stantial salads. 

Fish. —  Cold  boiled  salmon,  halibut, 
and  haddock  may  be  used  for  salad. 
Remove  the  bones  and  flake  the  fish 
into  three-quarter-inch  pieces. 

Lobster. —  Cut  lobster  meat  into  half- 
inch  cubes. 

Chicken  and  Veal. —  Remove  the  skin, 
fat,  gristle,  and  bone  from  chicken  and 
veal,  and  cut  the  meat  into  half- inch 
cubes. 

Oysters. —  Remove  the  tough  muscles 
of  parboiled  oysters,  and  use  the  soft 
part  for  salad. 

Sweetbreads. —  Remove  the  skin  and 
tough  membranes  from  sweetbreads, 
and  cut  the  meat  into  half-inch  cubes. 

Potatoes. —  Use  freshly  boiled  pota- 
toes when  possible.  Cut  in  thin  slices, 
as  the  dressing  penetrates  more  thor- 
oughly than  when  the  potato  is  cut  in 
cubes. 

English  Walnuts. —  Place  the  meats 
in  boiling  water  ;  pour  off  the  water 
almost  immediately,  and  remove  the 
dark  skin.  If  the  nuts  soak  in  the 
water  the  skins  will  discolor  them.  The 
meats  look  better  when  blanched,  but 
they  lose  slightly  the  puckery  flavor 
enjoyed  by  many  people. 

Apples.  —  Cut  apples  into  eighths, 
remove  the  cores,  pare,  and  cut  the 
pieces  into  thin  slices  crosswise. 

All  of  these  materials  may  be  used 
singly  for  salads,  or  in  combination 
in  the  following  proportions  :  — 

Salmon  and  shredded  lettuce    .     .  3  to  1 

Halibut  and  celery  or  potato     .     .  2  to  1 

Haddock  and  celery  or  potato  .     .  2  to  1 

Lobster  and  celery 1  to  1 


72 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


Chicken  and  veal,  proportions  as  conven- 
ient. 
Sweetbreads  and  cucumbers     .     .     i  to  i 

Oysters  and  chicken i  to  i 

English  walnuts  and  shredded  let- 
tuce      I  tO  2 

English  walnuts  and  apples  .     .     .     I  to  2 

Tomatoes  and  Cucumbers.  —  Peel  the 
tomatoes,  remove  the  seeds  and  some 
of  the  pulp,  sprinkle  the  inside  with 
salt,  invert  the  tomatoes,  and  let  them 
stand  in  the  refrigerator  half  an  hour. 
Cut  prepared  cucumbers  into  quarter- 
inch  dice,  and  let  them  stand  half  an 
hour  or  longer.  Just  before  serving, 
moisten  with  mayonnaise  and  fill  the 
tomatoes  with  the  mixture.  Arrange 
them  in  nests  of  lettuce  leaves,  and 
garnish  the  top  with  mayonnaise,  and 
the  tiny  heart  leaves  of  the  lettuce. 
Preparation  of  the  Salad  Dressing. 

Before  giving  recipes  for  salad  dress- 
ing, a  word  should  be  said  concerning 
the  care  of  olive  oil.  It  must  always 
be  kept  in  the  refrigerator  and  tightly 
corked.  Each  time  before  opening  the 
bottle,  wipe  the  mouth  and  cork  with 
a  clean,  damp  cloth,  and  repeat  the 
process  before  putting  the  bottle  away. 
The  oil  will  keep  longer  if  protected 
from  dust  in  this  manner. 

The  oil  cruet  should  be  filled  with 
sufficient  oil  to  last  two  or  three  days, 
no  longer.  It  cannot  be  kept  in  the 
refrigerator  conveniently,  and  becomes 
rancid,  if  exposed  long  to  room  tem- 
perature. Cleanse  the  cruet  each  time 
before  refilling. 

French  Dressing. 

This  dressing  has  two  uses  :  first,  it 
is  used  for  marinating  fish,  meat,  etc., 
which  are  to  be  treated  further  with 
mayonnaise ;  second,  it  is  often  used 
alone  on  vegetable,  plain  lettuce,  or 
tomato  salad.  In  the  latter  cases, 
the    hostess  often   prefers  to   mix  the 


dressing  on  the  table,  but  for  her  own 
purposes  the  waitress  may  use  the  fol- 
lowing recipe. 

It  is  well  to  note  here  that  the  meas- 
urements given  for  recipes  in  this  arti- 
cle are  level. 

French  Dressing. 

Quarter  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  one-eighth  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  one  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar. 

Place  all  the  ingredients  in  a  bottle, 
using  a  small  funnel  for  the  purpose, 
cork  the  bottle,  and  put  it  in  the  refrig- 
erator until  ready  to  use  the  dressing ; 
then  shake  it  vigorously  until  all  the 
ingredients  are  blended.  Use  at  once. 
If  allowed  to  stand  the  oil  and  vinegar 
will  separate. 

For  some  people,  the  flavor  of  this 
dressing  is  improved  by  the  addition  of 
one-sixteenth  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard 
and  five  drops  of  onion  juice.  The 
mustard  should  be  moistened  with  a  few 
drops  of  vinegar  before  adding  it  to 
the  other  ingredients. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Mayonnaise  dressing  is  often  used 
alone,  as  on  lettuce  or  tomato  salad,  but 
more  often  it  is  added  to  a  salad  after 
marinating. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

One  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  yolks  of 
two  eggs  (raw),  half  a  teaspoonful 
salt,  one  cup  of  olive  oil,  cayenne,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  until  thor- 
oughly blended.  Place  them  in  a  bowl, 
at  one  side,  and  the  yolks  on  the  other. 
Break  the  yolks  with  a  spoon  and 
moisten  the  dry  ingredients  with  a  small 
portion  of  the  egg ;  add  a  few  drops  of 
oil,  and  stir  steadily.  When  the  oil  is 
mixed,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  more. 
After  several  portions  of  oil  have  been 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


173 


added,  the  dressing  should  become 
thick.  If  it  is  not  thick,  stir  until  it 
does  thicken,  then  add  more  oil. 

If  the  dressing  curdles,  add  a  few 
drops  of  vinegar,  and  if  this  does  not 
improve  the  condition,  add  a  few  more. 
If  the  dressing  does  not  become  smooth 
again,  start  with  a  fresh  bowl,  spoon 
and  egg  yolk,  and  add  the  curdled 
dressing  as  though  it  were  plain  oil. 
When  all  is  used,  proceed  as  before. 
If  curdling  does  not  occur,  no  vinegar 
should  be  added  until  the  dressing  be- 
comes too  thick  to  stir  conveniently, 
then  alternate  vinegar  and  oil,  or  make 
two  additions  of  oil  to  one  of  vinegar. 
After  the  first  third  has  been  used,  the 
remainder  of  the  oil  may  be  added,  one 
teaspoonful  at  a  time. 

When  all  the  oil  and  vinegar  have 
been  used,  heat  the  dressing  well  and 
place  it  in  a  wide-mouthed  jar ;  cover 
the  jar  with  two  layers  of  paraffine 
paper,  tie  down  with  twine  or  cover 
with  the  screw  top.  This  dressing, 
when  tightly  covered  and  placed  on 
ice,  will  keep  three  weeks  in  winter, 
and  from  a  week  to  ten  days  in  sum- 
mer. The  dressing  should  always 
stand  several  hours  before  using,  so 
that  the  oil  may  become  seasoned. 

If  a  thick  dressing  has  been  made, 
add  a  few  teaspoonfuls  of  cream,  and 
blend  thoroughly.  The  cream  is  a 
great  improvement,  as  it  softens  the 
acid  and  makes  a  smoother  dress- 
ing. 

Marinating  and  Dressing  the  Salad. 

Lettuce,  cress,  and  sliced  tomato 
salad  should  be  dressed  just  before 
serving.  Meat,  fish,  potato,  etc.,  which 
have  been  prepared  for  salad,  should 
be  moistened  thoroughly  with  French 
dressing  (marinated),  and  allowed  to 
stand   at   least  one   hour  ;   then  add  a 


small  amount  of  mayonnaise  dressing 
and  mix  the  salad  lightly. 

If  a  delicate  flavor  of  onion  is  de- 
sired, rub  the  inside  of  the  salad-bowl 
with  a  freshly  cut  slice  of  onion.  The 
flavoring  principle  is  volatile  and  will 
pass  through  the  salad.  If  preferred, 
shallot  may  be  used  instead  of  onion. 
It  is  claimed  that  it  does  not  leave  the 
lingering,  disagreeable  odor  character- 
istic of  the  onion. 

Arrange  the  lettuce  leaves  around 
the  edges  of  a  salad-bowl,  or  place 
several  lettuce  leaves  together  in  the 
form  of  nests  ;  fill  with  salad  and  cover 
the  top  with  mayonnaise.  The  dress- 
ing should  be  sufficiently  thick  to  re- 
main where  placed.  If  preferred, 
lobster  salad  may  be  served  in  the 
lobster  shell. 

Garnishing. 

The  following  materials  may  be  used 
for  garnishing  salads  :  — 

Parsley,  beets  and  carrots  (cut  in 
various  shapes),  capers,  olives,  hard- 
cooked  eggs  (sliced,  white  cut  in  strips, 
yolks  pressed  through  a  sieve),  celery 
tips,  curled  celery,  radishes  (sliced,  or 
the  red  skin  cut  so  it  falls  back  and 
shows  white  underneath),  lobster  coral 
(dried  and  powdered),  lobster  claws 
(for  lobster  salad). 

It  is  plain  in  what  connection  most 
of  the  garnishes  are  to  be  used.  A 
few  may  require  explanation. 

Curled  celery  and  celery  tips  maybe 
used  with  chicken  salad  and  with  celery 
or  other  vegetable  salads. 

Capers  may  be  used  with  shrimp, 
halibut,  and  chicken  salad. 

Olives  may  be  used  for  garnishing 
shrimp,  salmon,  sardine,  and  halibut 
salads.  Radishes  may  be  used  to  gar- 
nish plain  lettuce,  cress,  string-bean, 
pea,  spinach,  and  potato  salads. 


74 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


THE  CONSERVATIVE  WOMAN  AT  HOME. 

By  Mary  Sargent  Hopkins. 


The  average  woman  is  a  conserva- 
tive creature ;  she  does  not  enjoy  any- 
thing radical,  especially  a  radical  change 
in  the  methods  of  doing  her  household 
work,  or  the  use  of  "  new-fangled  "  tools 
to  facilitate  its  accomplishment. 

Women  are  often  unprogressive,  be- 
cause they  are  not  encouraged  in  any 
new  ideas  by  the  "  men  folks,"  who 
seem  to  think  that  housework  does  not 
amount  to  much  anyway. 

The  mechanic  thinks  that,  if  his  wife 
wants  to  realize  what  an  easy  time  she 
has  with  seven  children,  and  no  wash- 
erwoman, she  ought  to  bend  over  a 
bench  and  work  beside  a  buzz  saw 
every  day  ;  and  the  man  in  business  is 
apt  to  think  that  there  are  many  more 
wearisome  complications  in  keeping 
the  details  of  his  business  straight,  with 
the  help  of  a  number  of  assistants,  than 
there  can  be  at  home,  where  there  is 
only  housework  and  sewing  to  be  done. 

But  we  must  not  lay  all  the  blame  upon 
the  poor  man ;  he  has  never  done  the 
work  for  a  family  of  nine,  and  conse- 
quently does  not  know  what  he  is 
talking  about.  It  would  seem  that 
woman  must  work  out  her  own  salva- 
tion. 

While  it  is  pretty  well  understood 
that  woman  should  stand  in  the  rela- 
tion of  helpmeet  to  man,  we  are  not 
told  who  is  to  be  her  helpmeet.  Still, 
if  she  will  but  use  that  part  of  her  brain 
which  has  lain  dormant  so  long,  —  I 
mean  the  part  that  tells  her  to  use 
every  means  within  her  power  to  help 
herself, — she  will  find  that  she  has 
been,  in  the  main,  to  blame,  and  that 
the  remedies  must  be  self-applied. 


The  first-class  workman  must  have  the 
most  up-to-date  tools  and  appliances, 
while  his  wife  goes  her  daily  rounds  with 
a  heavy  iron  teakettle,  supplemented  by 
a  leaky  saucepan ;  or,  perchance,  when 
in  desperate  need  of  an  extra  utensil,  a 
tomato  can  is  pressed  into  the  service, 
while  from  week  to  week  the  holes  in 
the  old  wash-boiler  are  ineffectually 
plugged  with  dough,  and  strings  are 
drawn  through  the  bottom  of  the  worn- 
out  dishpan. 

We  hope  the  time  is  not  far  distant 
when  every  woman  will  be  awakened 
by  the  note  of  progress,  now  ringing 
through  the  land,  and  that  she  will 
no  longer  be  content  to  do  her  work 
without  the  help  of  the  best  of  modern 
appliances.  The  conservative  woman 
may  be  hard  to  convince,  but  she  is  not 
a  fool ;  and,  if  it  could  be  demonstrated 
to  her  satisfaction  that  she  need  not 
spend  all  her  time  and  strength  doing 
her  work,  and  that  she  is  entitled  to  as 
good  and  improved  a  "  kit  of  tools  "  as 
is  her  husband,  she  would  not  refuse 
the  opportunity  of  having  a  little  time 
to  herself,  to  do  with  as  she  pleased. 

Traditions  descended  from  mother 
and  grandmother  envelop  some  women 
as  with  a  garment,  the  dropping  of 
which,  to  their  unawakened  ideas, 
savors  of  indecency.  To  their  minds 
there  is  nothing  like  the  good  old  ways  ; 
they  would  rather  stir  their  oatmeal  for 
an  hour,  running  the  risk  of  burning  it 
in  one  unguarded  instant,  than  to  be 
"  bothered  "  with  a  double  boiler,  which 
requires  little  or  no  attention.  The 
mechanic's  wife  will  rub  her  husband's 
shirts  to  tatters  in  a  vain  attempt  to  re- 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


I  75 


move  the  stains  of  toil,  rather  than  let  a 
harmless  washing  fluid  do  the  work  with 
far  less  harm  to  the  fabric.  The  woman, 
who  has  worked  hard  all  day,  getting  a 
nice  hot  supper  for  returning  husband 
and  sons,  almost  breaks  the  tired  camel's 
back  by  washing  the  dishes,  when  they 
could  just  as  well  be  gathered  in  scraped 
orderliness,  to  be  washed  with  the  break- 
fast things.  I  know  this  is  rank  her- 
esy ;  but,  when  we  come  to  analyze  this 
method  of  dish-washing,  it  resolves 
itself  into  a  matter  of  custom  and  habit, 
and  the  fact  that  there  are  not  always 
enough  dishes  to  set  the  table  for  two 
successive  meals.  This  latter  condition 
is  also  a  matter  of  habit,  because,  if  it 
had  been  the  custom  to  wash  dishes 
but  once  a  day,  we  would  provide  dishes 
sufficient. 

The  fact  that  we  wash  clothes  but 
once  a  week  necessitates  a  number  of 
changes  in  body,  bed,  and  table  linen ; 
still,  I  suppose,  if  our  grandmothers  had 
laid  down  the  law  that  we  should  wash 
every  day,  we  should  religiously  follow 
the  tradition,  as  we  do  in  the  washing 
of  dishes  three  times  a  day. 

Of  course  the  ideal  way  would  be  to 
have  every  article  cleansed  immediately 
it  becomes  soiled,  and  to  a  certain  ex- 
tent this  may  be  done  where  there  are 
servants  ;  but  the  average  woman  does 
her  own  work,  and  not  only  her  own 
but  that  for  the  whole  family,  large 
or  small,  and  in  so  doing  often  com- 
pletely submerges  herself.  She  sees 
no  other  way,  and,  if  she  does  catch 
a  glimpse  of  something  which  might 
work  a  change,  she  only  gives  it  a  pass- 
ing thought  and  keeps  up  the  old  in- 
cessant grind. 

For  instance,  a  raisin-seeder  costs 
but  little  ;  but  that  is  another  thing  with 
which  she  will  not  be  bothered  :  so  she 


spends  precious  time  seeding  raisins 
when  she  ought  to  be  taking  a  nap  or 
reading. 

At  night,  after  the  supper  is  cleared 
away,  and  she  feels  ready  to  drop  in 
her  tracks,  she  must  mix  bread,  and,  if 
the  weather  is  hot,  must  rise  an  hour  or 
two  earlier  than  usual  the  next  morning, 
for  fear  it  may  sour  before  she  can  bake 
it;  while  if  she  would  use  a  little  more 
yeast,  she  could  mix  in  the  morning, 
when  she  and  the  day  were  both  fresh, 
and  have  the  baking  all  done  by  noon. 

There  are  so  many  ways  in  which  a 
woman  may  save  herself,  if  she  will  only 
make  a  study  of  the  subject ;  but  the 
trouble  is  that,  in  her  efforts  to  make  her 
family  comfortable,  she  generally  suc- 
ceeds in  effacing  herself,  substituting  a 
sort  of  human  machine,  wound  up  in 
the  morning,  to  be  completely  run 
down  by  night.  At  the  time  when  she 
should  get  a  bit  acquainted  with  her 
husband  and  family  she  is  too  tired  to 
enter  into  any  of  their  interests,  and  in 
fact  knows  very  little  about  them  ;  while 
they  are  too  apt  to  vote  mother  cross, 
and  wonder  why  she  must  be  always 
working. 

There  are  so  many  labor-saving  de- 
vices now  that,  if  a  woman  possess  her- 
self of  only  a  few,  she  will  find  her  work 
greatly  lessened  ;  but  the  greatest  labor- 
saving  device  that  ever  had  existence  is 
a  woman's  own  brain,  when  it  is  used  to 
sort  her  work  into  divisions. 

First.  That  which  must  be  done,  de- 
manded by  the  health  and  comfort  of 
her  family.  When  this  list  is  made  out 
and  cut  down  to  the  minimum,"  mother's 
way "  of  working  should  be  lightened 
and  lessened  by  the  assistance  of  every 
bit  of  mechanism,  proven  to  be  labor 
and  time  saving,  within  reach ;  and  a 
good  stock  of  modern  cooking  utensils 


176 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


costs  so  little  as  to  be  within  the  reach 
of  almost  every  housekeeper.  One  less 
table  in  the  parlor  and  one  more  in  the 
kitchen  would  often  be  an  improve- 
ment. 

Second.  The  less  important  things. 
It  is  surprising  how  this  list  can  be  cur- 
tailed, and  how  many  things  can  be 
made  to  almost  i4  do  themselves." 
Dishes,  for  instance,  will  dry  them- 
selves in  shining  purity,  if  set  up  in  a  rack 
after  being  washed  and  then  rinsed  by 
pouring  clean  scalding  water  over  them. 
Many  articles  from  the  wash  can  be 
folded  smoothly  and  not  touched  with 
a  hot  iron,  greatly  to  their  advantage. 
The  careful  dusting  of  a  room  often 
answers  as  well  as  the  upheaval  known 
as  a  "thorough  sweeping."  A  carpet 
sweeper  is  the  abomination  of  some 
women,  and,  as  for  a  mop.  they 
'•  wouldn't  use  one  ;  "  they  would 
rather  break  their  backs  digging  with 
a  broom,  and  strain  every  muscle  in 
their  bodies  scrubbing  on  their  knees, 
than    indulge    in   such    "  slack    ways." 


Never  mind,  if  at  forty  they  look  sixty, 
and  never  have  time  for  anything. 

I  once  knew  a  woman,  one  of  these 
"  model  housekeepers,"  who  said  she 
never  left  the  dishes  over  night  but 
once,  and  then  she  was  taken  sick  be- 
fore morning,  and  the  first  thing  she 
thought  of  was  those  dishes.  Nothing 
would  ever  induce  her  to  do  such  a 
thing  again.  She  once  started  to  do  a 
washing  on  a  terribly  hot  day,  and,  not 
feeling  well,  she  fainted  three  times 
before  the  last  piece  was  hung  out. 
"  But,"  said  she,  *  I  would  have  finished 
that  wash  if  it  had  killed  vie.'''' 

As  Kate  Sanborn  said  at  the  head 
of  one  of  her  chapters,  "  I  have  a  motto 
but  dare  not  use  it." 

Third  comes  the  list  of  utterly  useless 
things  over  which  women  waste  their 
time.  I  shall  not  specify  ;  every  woman 
must  make  her  own  selection.  I  only 
would  suggest  that  she  carefully  weigh 
everything,  and  let  in  the  light  of  mod- 
ern thought  and  inventions  upon  her 
old-fashioned  conservatism. 


A  CHRISTMAS  PUDDING. 

By  Kate  M.   Post. 

{Written  for  the  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine.) 


Take  what  you  have  of  prosperity, 

No  matter  how  little  it  be ; 
Raised  with  the  leven  of  thankfulness, 

'Twill  increase  to  full  three  times  three. 

Then  put  in  some  hospitality, 

And  a  quantity  of  good  will ; 
A  goodly  portion  of  cheerfulness 

Gives  a  pleasanter  flavor  still. 

And  sweeten  it  well  with  charity, — 
Be  sure  and  use  plenty  of  that ; 


For,  lacking  this  one  ingredient, 
The  whole  will  be  tasteless  and  flat. 

And  spice  it  with  fun  and  merriment, 
And  with  many  a  timely  jest, 

And  bake  it  on  the  family  hearth  ; 
Of  all  places  that  is  the  best. 

When  served  with  a  sauce  of  kindliness, 
'Tis  a  pudding  fit  for  a  king ; 

For  it  cannot  be  bought  or  paid  for  : 
It  is  far  too  precious  a  thing. 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL    MAGAZIXE. 


*77 


SELECTED  VERSE. 


AT    CHRISTMAS    TIME. 
Within  an  old  cathedral  dim 
The  white-robed  choir  chant  a  hymn. 
That  old,  old  s'.ory  o'er  again, 
Of  peace  on  earth,  good-will  toward  men ; 
A  holy  silence  fills  the  air, 
And  every  head  is  bowed  in  prayer, 
While  from  the  tower  the  joy-bells  chime 
At  Christmas  time. 

Far  out  upon  the  briny  deep, 
The  mariner  his  watch  doth  keep 
For  his  bright,  guiding  Bethlehem  star, 
The  beacon  light  that  shines  afar; 
And,  as  he  sees  its  kindly  rays. 
He  thinks  of  home  and  other  days, 
Of  loved  ones  in  a  distant  clime 
At  Christmas  time. 

Again  at  the  old  homestead's  door 
Dear  friends  and  kindred  meet  once  more, 
To  sit  around  the  hearthstone's  glow, 
And  hark  to  bells  across  the  snow ; 
They  talk  of  youth  and  hope  and  love, 
And  gently  speak  of  those  above, 
The  missing  ones  for  whom  they  pine, 
At  Christmas  time. 

Without  the  happy  children  play, 
For  Christmas  is  the  children's  day. 
Like  one  of  these  the  Christ-child  came, 
For  one  of  these  he  bore  his  pain ; 
And  thus  the  story  of  his  birth 
Is  told  to  all  the  listening  earth, 
O'er  land  and  sea,  in  every  clime, 

At  Christmas  time. 
-Inez  May  Feltt  in  the  uSoMi  urnal" 


A    SONG    FOR    EVERY    DAY. 
The  weary  world's  a  cheery  place 

For  those  with  hearts  to  win  it ; 
Thank  God  there's  not  a  human  face 

But  has  some  laughter  in  it '. 
The  soul  that  comes  with  honest  mirth, 

Though  health  and  fortune  vary, 
Brings  back  the  childhood  of  the  earth, 

And  keeps  it  sound  and  merry. 
The  plodding  world's  an  eager  place 

For  those  with  wit  to  use  it ; 
Where  all  are  bidden  to  the  race, 

Let  him  who  dares  refuse  it ! 


The  simplest  task  the  hand  can  try, 

The  dullest  round  of  duty, 
Knowledge  can  amply  glorify, 

And  art  can  crown  with  beauty. 

A  busy,  bonny,  kindly  place 

Is  this  rough  world  of  ours, 
For  those  who  love  and  work  apace, 

And  fill  their  hands  with  flowers. 
To  kind  and  just  and  grateful  hearts 

The  present  grace  is  given 
To  find  a  heaven  in  themselves, 

And  find  themselves  in  heaven. 

—  Dora  Reed  Goodale. 


THE    OLD    HYMNS. 

There's  lots  of  music  in  'em  —  the  hymns  of 

long  ago, 
And  when  some  gray-haired  brother  sings  the 

ones  I  used  to  know, 
I  sorter  want  to  take  a  hand  '.    I  think  of  days 

gone  by, 
'•  On   Jordan's   stormy  banks  I  stand  and  cast 

a  wistful  ej 

There's  lots  of  music  in  'em  —  those  dear, 
sweet  hymns  of  old, 

With  visions  bright  of  lands  of  light,  and  shin- 
ing streets  of  gold; 

And  I  hear 'em  ringing  —  singing,  where  mem- 
'ry,  dreaming,  stands, 

il  From  Greenland's  icy  mountains  to  India's 
coral  strands." 

They  seem  to  sing  forever  of  holier,  sweeter 
days, 

When  the  lilies  of  the  love  of  God  bloomed 
white  in  all  the  wa 

And  I  want  to  hear  their  music  from  the  old- 
time  meetin's  rise, 

Till  "  I  can  read  my  title  clear  to  mansions  in 
the  skies." 

An'  so    I  love  the  old  hymns,  and  when  my 

time  shall  come  — 
Before  the  light  has  left  me,  and  my  singing 

lips  are  dumb. 
If    I    can   hear  'em  sing  them  then,  I'll   pass 

without  a  Mgh 
To  M  Canaan's  fair  and  happy  land  where   my 

possessions  lie." 

—  Atlanta  Constitution. 


1 78 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


XTbe   Boston  Goofeiwj^Scbool 
Corporation, 

Established  1879.  Incorporated  1882. 

School:  372  Boylston  Street. 

BOARD  OF  MANAGERS,  1899. 

Mrs.  WM.  B.  SEWALL         -        -        -     President. 
Mrs.  STEPHEN   D.    BENNETT,   Vice-President. 


EXECUTIVE  COMMITTEE. 

Mrs.  WM.  B.  SEWALJ,, 

Miss  ELLEN  M.  CHANDLER, 
Mrs.  ELLIOTT  RUSSELL, 
Mrs.  MOORFIELD  STOREY, 

Mrs.  LANGDON  SHANNON  DAVIS, 
Mrs.  WALTER  CHANNING, 
Mrs.  WINSLOW  WARREN, 
Miss  MINNA   TRAIN, 

Mrs.  EVERETT   MORSS. 
Mrs.  G.  E.  NILES,  Treasurer. 
Mrs.  EVERETT  MORSS,  Secretary. 
Principal,   Miss  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER. 
Miss  CHARLOTTE  JAMES  WILLS 


Assistants, 


Miss  MARIA  W.  HOWARD. 


Ube   Boston   Coofetn0*5cbool 
/Il>aga3inet 

Of  Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics. 

PUBLISHED   BIMONTHLY. 

OFFICIAL     JOURNAL     OF     THE     BOSTON 

COOKING-SCHOOL    CORPORATION. 

Publication  Office: 

372  Bcnlston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

JANET  MCKENZIE  HILL     -        -        -        Editor. 
ELLA   L.   BREED,    Advertising  Representative. 


Subscription   50   cts.    per    j^ear.      Single    Copies 
10  cts. 

Advertising  rates  furnished  on  application. 


To  Subscribers. 

When  sending  notice  to  renew  subscription  or 
change  address,  please  give  the  old  address  as 
well  as  the  neiv.. 

We  use  in  our  subscription  list  the  card 
index  system,  by  which  absolute  accuracy  is  se- 
cured ;  but  in  referring  to  an  original  entry  we 
must  know  the  name  as  it  was  formerly  giveu, 
together  with  the  Postoffice,  County,  State,  Post- 
office  Box,  or  Street  Number. 


Entered  at  Boston  Postoffice  as  second-class 
matter. 


The  perfect  loveliness  of  a  woman's 
countenance  can  only  consist  in  that 
majestic  peace  which  is  founded  in  the 
memory  of  happy  and  useful  years,  full 
of  sweet  records.  — John  Ruskin. 


ANNOUNCEMENT. 

The  Boston  Cooking-School 
3Ia.ua zine  has  changed  its  office 
of  publication  from  22  School 
Street,  to  372  Boylston  Street, 
Boston,  3Iass.  This  change  was 
not  anticipated  by  us,  and  is  the 
cause  of  the  delay  in  the  issue  of 
the  present  number  of  our  jour- 
nal. For  this  delay  Ave  beg*  the 
indulgence  of  our  subscribers  and 
patrons,  and  hasten  to  assure 
them  that  we  do  not  intend  that 
a  like  annoyance  shall  happen 
again. 

As  it  will  be  noted,  no  other 
change  has  been  made  in  the 
publication.  The  magazine  is,  and 
will  continue  to  be,  the  official 
organ  of  the  Boston  Cooking- 
School;  its  continuity  is  unbroken. 
The  editor  remains  the  same,  and 
the  character  of  the  magazine  is 
the  same.  In  the  future  no  inno- 
vations are  proposed  by  us,  save 
in  the  way  of  steady  growth  and 
improvement. 

The  Boston  Cooking-School 
Magazine  has  never  aspired  to 
become  a  publication  of  numerous 
departments,  or  to  imitate  in  any 
respect  those  excellent  journals 
that  have  unlimited  facilities  to 
touch  upon  many  subjects,  in- 
cluding music,  art,  belles  Eettres, 
etc.  It  is  nowise  our  aim  to  dif- 
fuse our  strength  over  a  multi- 
tude of  topics  ;  but  to  concentrate 
our  efforts  and  develop  along  the 
lines  that  have  been  already 
marked  out  is  our  constant  aim 
and  purpose.  In  brief,  therefore, 
in  the  future,  as  in  the  past,  we 
propose  to  present  to  the  average 
home-maker    the   strongest,   most 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


179 


practical,  and  most  useful  period- 
ical, at  the  present  time,  devoted 
to  the  interests  of  culinary  science 
and  domestic  economics.  Our 
motto  might  be  "This  one  thing- 
I  do."  Ever  the  latest  and  best 
in  household  appliance  and  use- 
ful invention  will  receive  our  at- 
tention, and  all  that  pertains  to 
progress  or  reform  in  the  culinary 
art  will  be  made  a  matter  of 
careful  thought  and  study.  We 
shall  not  fail,  moreover,  to  avail 
ourselves  of  the  best  that  is 
thought  and  said  on  these  sub- 
jects, and  to  make  use  of  the  same 
for  the  benefit  of  our  readers. 

For  past  encouragement,  our 
grateful  acknowledgments  are 
due  to  many  readers  and  friends. 
Through  these  may  we  not  hope 
to  reach  a  larger  and  still  larger 
number  of  homes,  Avhere  interest 
mainly  centres  in  matters,  ever 
vital  and  essential,  that  make  for 
health,  happiness,  and  longevity  ? 


T^HE  season  of  advertising  is  at  high 
*  tide.  As  everybody  knows,  pro- 
fitable advertising  renders  many  a  lit- 
erary undertaking  possible.  We  are 
pleased  to  invite  a  careful  inspection  of 
our  advertising  pages.  As  far  as  we 
know,  they  present  only  choice  and  re- 
liable articles  of  standard  merit.  Our 
patrons  in  this  line  and  ourselves  have 
the  same  object  in  view,  namely,  the 
dissemination  of  acquaintance  with  the 
purest  food  materials,  the  most  con- 
venient utensils,  and  the  best  appli- 
ances for  use  in  progressive,  scientific 
housekeeping.  In  these  days  one  can 
ill  afford  to  use  poor  tools,  and  the 
conditions  of  hygienic  living  call  for 
cleanly,   unadulterated   food   products. 


Here  we  take  the  opportunity  to  say 
that  we  are  sometimes  asked  to  endorse 
an  article  of  genuine  merit  as  better 
than  all  others  of  its  kind.  A  mo- 
ment's consideration  will  make  it  plain 
that  we  cannot  do  this.  From  the  same 
materials,  experts  may  prepare  articles 
of  undoubted  merit ;  and  yet  to  decide 
that  one  of  these  in  comparison  is 
superior  to  all  others  in  every  respect 
would  be  very  difficult  if  not  quite  im- 
possible. Who  is  prepared  to  assert 
that  one  grain  of  corn  or  wheat  is  supe- 
rior to  all  other  grains  ?  And  what  is 
to  be  gained  thereby  ?  Tastes  vary, 
opinions  differ,  and  often  are  subject 
to  change.  Anyhow,  choice  is  largely 
a  matter  of  individual  need  and  fancy. 
Excellent  first-class  articles  are  ever 
likely  to  prove  satisfactory  to  us  all. 

On  every  page  of  this  journal  we 
desire  to  give  strictly  trustworthy  infor- 
mation. We  aim  especially  to  be  strong 
on  the  helpful  and  practical  side  in 
matters  that  pertain  to  the  culinary  art 
and  to  domestic  science  in  general. 


A  SIGN  of  the  times  is  the  attention 
**■  given  in  our  medical  journals  to 
diet  in  its  relation  to  health.  In  re- 
cent issues  of  the  Medical  Record, 
Dietetic  and  Hygienic  Gazette,  Health 
Culture,  etc.,  by  the  side  of  reports  of 
the  progress  of  medical  science,  we 
find  frequent  contributions  on  "  What 
shall  we  eat,  how,  and  when  ?  "  and 
kindred  topics.  In  these  publications 
it  is  evident  food  has  come  to  be  re- 
garded of  no  less  concern  than  sanita- 
tion. Practical  hygiene  is  placed  before 
drugs  and  drugging.  Suitable  dietaries 
for  infancy  and  old  age,  for  every  class 
and  condition  of  disease,  are  made 
subjects  of  careful  consideration  and 
experimental  investigation.     Even  the 


i8o 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


treatment  of  food  as  an  aesthetic  is  not 
neglected. 

And  thus  the  culinary  journals  are 
coming  to  be  the  handmaids  of  the 
physician ;  for  these  are  able  to  pro- 
vide the  practitioner  with  an  authori- 
tative source  of  information  about 
dietetics  not  easily  found  elsewhere. 
Already  prudent  and  thoughtful  phy- 
sicians are  placing  culinary  journals  in 
the  hands  of  their  patients  as  the  most 
reliable  means  to  reform  in  diet  and 
as  a  preventive  of  disease. 

All  this  is  hopeful  and  encouraging, 
and  yet  it  tends  greatly  to  increase  the 
responsibility  of  those  who  claim  to  set 
the  standards  of  propriety  in  the  selec- 
tion, preparation,  and  serving  of  food. 
It  affords,  moreover,  conclusive  evi- 
dence that  undue  estimate  cannot  be 
placed  upon  the  importance  of  the 
study  of  food  and  dietetics. 

In  writing  on  preparing  for  old  age, 
an  eminent  physician  in  the  Wisconsin 
Medical  Recorder  says  :  — 

We  are  learning  abundance  about  food,  the 
varieties  of  it,  and  the  different  degrees  of 
digestibility  of  the  various  kinds.  Some  foods 
make  muscles,  some  make  fat,  some  make 
bone.  We  are  learning  the  value  of  the  classi- 
fication of  food  into  animal  and  vegetable. 
Our  knowledge  of  these  two  kinds  of  food  is 
leading  us  to  a  more  accurate  knowledge  of 
the  laws  of  dietetics  and  to  the  proper  means 
of  preventing  disease,  and  of  curing  our  sick 
bodies  by  proper  diets  in  various  kinds  of  dis- 
eases. Our  more  extended  knowledge  of  foods 
is  aiding  us  in  selecting  and  preparing  foods 
for  the  periods  of  infancy,  childhood,  adoles- 
cence and  old  age.  We  are  further  learning 
to  adjust  food  to  work,  mental  and  physical. 


vain,    and   make  life  a  greater   dream 
and  shadow  than  it  really  is. 


And  if  we  weave  a  yard  of  tape  in  all 
humility,  and  as  well  as  we  can,  long 
hereafter  we  shall  see  it  was  no  cotton 
tape  at  all,  but  some  galaxy  which  we 
braided,  and  that  the  threads  were 
Time  and  Nature.  —  Emerson. 


It  is  almost  as  bad,  in  one  sense,  to 
wear  out  as  to  rust  out.  The  final  re- 
sult is  the  same  ;  the  worn-out  machine 
is  no  better  than  the  useless  one. 
There  must  be  a  golden  mean.  A  well- 
oiled  machine  should  not  wear  out,  and 
a  busy  man  or  woman  need  not  break 
down,  if  he  or  she  will  but  soften  the 
effect  of  wearing  tasks  by  a  judicious 
amount  of  rest.  The  ideal  life  requires 
a  proper  intermingling  of  activity  and 
rest,  and  is  best  described  as  restful 
activity.  In  such  a  life  there  is  neither 
rust  nor  wear. 


If    we    hope    for    what    we   are    not 
likely  to   possess,  we  act  and  think  in 


SMALL    THINGS. 

"  The  pence  will  take  care  of  the 
pounds  in  morals  as  well  as  in  expen- 
ditures. Life  is  made  up  of  small 
things.  We  are  not  given  the  choice 
between  a  splendid  act  of  supreme 
self-sacrifice  and  a  gigantic  exhibition 
of  fiendish  cruelty  and  demoniacal  sel- 
fishness. Most  of  us  live  a  very  prosaic 
life,  divided  between  humdrum  duties 
and  insignificant  little  temptations,  each 
of  minor  value  taken  singly,  but  the 
very  life-blood  of  true  morality  when 
massed  together.  They  are  the  pence 
which  make  the  pounds.  He  who  is 
faithful  in  the  small  things  will  be 
faithful  in  the  larger." 


After=  Breakfast  Chat. 

By  Janet  M.   Hilt.. 

The  happiness  of  life  is  made  up  of  many  fractions, —  the  little,  soon-forgotten  charities  of 
a  kiss,  a  smile,  a  kind  look,  a  heartfelt  compliment  in  the  disguise  of  playful  raillery,  and  the 
countless  other  infinitesimals  of  pleasant  thought  and  feeling. —  Coleridge. 

To  get  peace,  if  you  do  want  it,  make  for  yourselves  nests  of  pleasant  thoughts  —  houses 
without  hands  for  our  souls  to  live  in.  —  Ruskin. 


At  the  Christmas  season  the  busy 
mother,  anxious  to  present  her  friends 
little  remembrances,  often  taxes  her- 
self beyond  her  strength.  People  in 
general  are  not  supplied  with  large  sums 
above  that  needed  for  the  exigencies 
of  living ;  and,  as  one  likes  to  please 
in  this  matter  of  gift-making,  many  a 
woman  tries  with  needle  and  large  ex- 
penditure of  time  to  fashion  a  gift,  as 
one  young  woman  said,  with  an  outlay 
of  twenty-five  cents  that  may  appear  to 
have  cost  twenty-five  dollars.  This 
might  do  in  the  case  of  gifts  for  one  or 
two  intimate  friends ;  but,  when  the 
number  of  recipients  is  increased,  the 
maker  of  these  beautiful  gifts  is  apt  to 
awaken  on  Christmas  morning  on  the 
verge  of  nervous  prostration,  and  un- 
able to  bear  the  glad  shouts  of  the 
children,  or  to  enter  with  spirit  into  the 
joy  and  gladness  of  the  season.  It  is 
not  necessarily  the  work  itself  that 
brings  about  this  result,  for  work 
means  health  ;  but  it  is  too  much  work 
of  one  kind  that  is  baneful.  The  fret 
and  worry  incidental  upon  getting 
things  done  on  time,  when  more  has 
been  planned  out  than  can  be  reason- 
ably accomplished  —  this  it  is  that  kills. 
In  short,  is  there  not  room  for  im- 
provement in  our  habits  of  gift-mak- 
ing? Are  we  not  inclined  to  overdo  in 
this  matter,   as  in  entertaining,  dress- 


ing, house-furnishing,  etc.  ?  Would  it 
not  be  the  part  of  wisdom  to  cultivate 
more  simple  tastes  in  all  things  ? 

Apropos  of  our  inability  to  enjoy 
the  glee  of  our  happy  children  at  this 
season,  when  they  are  confined  more 
or  less  to  the  house,  we  are  reminded 
of  the  wide  attention  given  at  the 
present  time,  by  those  interested  in 
child  study,  to  the  subject  of  play  as 
a  means  of  development.  Those  who 
have  given  the  subject  careful  study 
tell  us  that  play  is  an  end  not  to  be 
despised  in  the  education  of  children  ; 
not  only  physically,  but  morally,  the 
child's  proper  development  is  best 
attained  by  games.  By  this  means  he 
learns  self-control.  And  well-known 
authors  repeatedly  assert  that  "  there 
is  probably  no  factor  so  potent  in  the 
balance  of  the  nervous  system  as 
play  ;  "  and  again,  "  Play  may  be  con- 
sidered as  the  balance-wheel  of  the 
nervous  organization  of  the  child,  and 
leads  to  a  development  of  the  nervous 
elements  into  a  strong,  harmoniously 
acting  system." 

Self-expression,  then,  rather  than 
self-repression,  should  be  the  rule  of 
action  in  the  household  ;  but  is  it  not 
too  often  the  case  that,  through  ignor- 
ance of  natural  law,  our  children  are 
compelled  to  go  from  home  for  oppor- 


182 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


tunities  to  give  free  expression  to  what 
within  them  is  striving  for  utterance  in 
word  or  deed  ? 

If  play  or  recreation  is  needed  for 
the  balance  of  the  nervous  system  in 
the  young,  may  it  not  be  a  means  to  an 
end  in  the  preservation  of  the  nervous 
balance  in  parents,  who  are  but  chil- 
dren of  more  mature  years  ?  Are  we 
not  apt  so  to  concentrate  our  attention 
upon  the  business  of  housekeeping,  or 
affairs  outside  the  home,  as  scarcely  to 
allow  ourselves  a  moment's  relaxation. 
And  so  we  lose  the  power  to  enjoy 
anything  save  work,  and  reduce  to  a 
negative  quantity  one  of  the  very  safe- 
guards of  a  well-rounded  existence. 
For  this  relaxation  is  useful  to  change 
the  tenor  of  our  thoughts  and  give  the 
overtaxed  nervous  system  relief. 

Let  us,  then,  spend  fewer  hours  in 
fashioning  exquisite  gifts  and  give  our- 
selves up  more  heartily  to  the  thoughts 
and  feelings  engendered  by  the  Christ- 
mas spirit.  Let  us  go  forth  with  the 
children  and  listen  to  pealing  chimes 
and  deep-toned  organs,  or,  at  home  with 
them,  sing  carols  commemorating  the 
glad  event  presaged  in  many  a  myth 
and  legend  of  a  bygone  age.  Let  us, 
at  least  for  this  one  time  in  the  year, 
become  children  again  and,  putting 
aside  all  our  disappointments,  literally 
breathe  in  deep  draughts  of  pleasure  ; 
for  "  in  joy  we  breathe  in  great  breaths, 
in  sorrow  our  breathing  is  short  and 
weak."  When  we  are  pleased,  the 
blood  flows  more  freely  into  the  little 
blood  vessels  which  lie  just  beneath 
the  skin,  and  these  things  affect  ma- 
terially  our   physical   well-being.     We 


can  do  no  better  than  quote  here  from 
our  genial  after-dinner  speaker,  Sena- 
tor Depew,  who  says  :  "  The  secrets 
of  happiness  and  longevity  are  to  cher- 
ish and  cultivate  cheerful,  hopeful 
and  buoyant  spirits.  If  you  haven't 
them,  create  them.  Enjoy  things  as 
they  are.  Keep  in  touch  with  the 
young.  Join  in  their  games,  be  a  part- 
ner in  the  dance,  romp  the  fastest  and 
turn  the  quickest  in  the  Virginia  reel 
or  the  country  dance,  go  up  to  the  old 
college  and  sit  down  and  light  your 
pipe  and  sing  college  songs,  take  the 
children  to  the  theatre  and  howl  with 
them  at  the  roaring  farce  and  laugh 
with  them  at  the  comedy  and  cry  with 
them  at  the  tragedy,  be  their  confidant 
in  their  love  affairs,  and,  if  they  are 
not  equal  to  it,  write  their  love-letters, 
and  never  stop  writing  some  for  your- 
self." 


There  are  various  ways  of  keeping 
alive  our  friendly,  kindly  sympathy  for 
those  about  us  apart  from  gift-making. 
In  one  of  our  smaller  literary  New 
England  towns  a  "  sunrise  prayer- 
meeting"  calls  on  New  Year's  morning 
the  inhabitants  of  all  creeds  and  sexes 
together  at  a  common  meeting-place. 
The  custom  is  old,  dating  from  the 
early  settlement  of  the  town.  While 
the  meeting  is  of  a  somewhat  religious 
nature,  as  were  all  "  meetings  "  in  col- 
onial times,  the  social  side  is  not  lost 
sight  of ;  the  warm  clasp  of  the  hand 
and  the  fervent,  heartfelt  good  wishes 
expressed  by  each  for  the  other  sends 
a  warm  thrill  of  gladness  through  the 
heart,  whose  influence  abides  for  long 
days  in  the  year  thus  begun. 


THE  BOS  TO  A    COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


183 


SEASONABLE  MENUS,  ONE  WEEK  IN  JANUARY. 


Appetite  is  largely  the  result  of  habit  and, 

BREAKFAST. 

Boiled  Rice,  Cream. 

Fried  Oysters,  Fried  Brovvnbread, 

Sauce  Tartare. 

Cornmeal-and-Rice  Waffles,  Maple  Syrup. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Cream-of-Rice  Soup.      Ham   Baked  with 

Cider.     Samp  in  Cream  Sauce. 

Brussels  Sprouts,  Buttered. 

Coddled  Apples.       Cabbage  Salad. 

Cheese  Straws. 

Mince  Pie.     Cafe  Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Spiced  Nut  Cakes.     Cheese  Sandwiches. 

Cocoa. 

BREAKFAST. 

Wheatena  with  Sultanas,  Cream. 
Salt  Mackerel  Boiled, 

Horseradish  Cream  Sauce. 

Hashed  Potatoes,  Baked. 

Dry  Toast.         Cereal  Coffee. 

EUNCHEON. 

Welsh  Rarebit.      Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Graham  Bread  and  Butter. 

Cereal-Coffee  Jelly,  Whipped  Cream. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Cream-of-Corn  (canned)  Soup. 

Cold  Baked  Ham,  Sliced  Thin. 

Mashed  Potato.     Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Cabbage-and-Nut  Salad. 

Apples  with  Rice,  Boiled  Custard. 

Cafe  Noir. 


no  doubt,  of  hereditary  influences. —  Hoy. 

BREAKFAST. 

Quaker  Oats,  Stewed  Dates,  Cream. 

Scrambled  Ham  and  Eggs. 

Baked  Potatoes.      Buckwheat  Cakes. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Creole  Chicken. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Baked  and  Glazed. 

Buttered  String  Beans  (canned). 

Baked  Apples  with  Meringue.        Cheese. 

Tea. 

SUPPER. 

Lettuce-and-Ham  Salad. 

Shredded-Wheat  Biscuit,  Toasted. 

Honey.     Tea. 

BREAKFAST. 

Old  Gristmill  Rolled  Wheat. 

Chicken  Warmed  in  Tomato  Sauce. 

Dry  Toast. 

Cornmeal-and-Rice  Waffles. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Beef  a  la  Mode.     Onions. 

Cauliflower,  Buttered. 

Tomato  Jelly  with  String  Bean  Salad. 

Apple  Pie.     Neufchatel  Cheese. 

Coffee. 

SUPPER. 

Cream  Toast.     Smoked  Fish. 

Stewed  Figs. 

Wafers.         Tea. 


BREAKFAST. 

Old  Gristmill  Toasted  Wheat. 

Mutton  Chops,  Broiled,  Potato  Cakes. 

Cornmeal  Muffins. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

EUNCHEON. 

Cold  Ham,  Sliced  Thin.     Cole-slaw. 

Entire-Wheat  Bread  and  Butter. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Tomato  Soup,  Browned  Crackers. 

Escalloped  Oysters. 

Lettuce-and-Celery  Salad, 

Boiled  Dressing. 
Tapioca-and-Banana  Sponge. 
Cereal  Coffee. 


K  HEAR  FAST. 

Baked  Oatmeal,  Baked  Bananas. 

Fishballs,  Broiled  Bacon. 

Mustard  Sauce. 

Biownbread,  Toasted. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Beef  a  la  Mode  in  Curry  Sauce. 

Boiled  Rice. 

Wax  Beans  (canned).     Celery  Salad. 

Squash  Pie.      Coffee. 

SUPPER. 

Cream-of-Celery  Soup,  Toasted  Crackers. 

Rye  Bread  and  Butter. 

Apple  Sauce.      Cottage  Cheese.     Tea. 


BREAKFAST. 

Boiled  Rice,  Baked 

Apples. 

Chicken  Livers  and 

Bacon. 

Stewed  Potatoes. 

Fried  Mush,  Maple 

Syrup.    Coffee. 


DINNER. 

Potato  Soup. 
Cold   Beef  a  la   Mode, 

Sliced  Thin, 
Brown  Sauce. 

Baked  Squash. 

Escalloped  Cabbage. 

Cream  Cheese.     Olives. 

Pulled  Bread. 

Cottage  Pudding. 

Cereal  Coffee. 


SUPPER. 

Oysters  in  Chafing-dish. 

Crackers. 

Cole  -slaw. 

Marmalade  Wafers. 

Tea. 


84 


THE   BOSTON   COO  KING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


yuletibe  211enus. 

He  has  more  business  than  English  ovens  at  Christmas.  —  Old  Proverb. 

CHRISTMAS    DINNER. 


ECONOMICAL    MENU. 

(Family  of  five.     Parents,  three  boys,  10,  i4,  16 
years  of  age.) 

"  Such  dainties  to  them,  their  health  it  might  hurt  ; 
It's  like  sending  them  ruffles,  when  wanting  a  shirt." 

Mock  Bisque  Soup,  Croutons. 

Loin  of  Pork,  Roasted.         Apple  Sauce.         Baked  Potatoes. 

Baked  Squash.  Macaroni  and  Cheese.  Celery. 

Oatmeal  Bread.       Nut  Ice-Cream.       Fig  Cake. 

Cereal  Coffee. 


IVIEIIMU      I 


(Young  Children  in  Family.) 


"  Sweet  childish  days,  that  were  as  long 
As  twenty  days  are  now." 

Beef  Broth  with  Alphabet  Paste.  Broiled  Chicken. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes.  Cranberry  Sauce.  Stewed  Celery  with  Cream. 

Lettuce  Salad.  Cheese  Souffle.  Individual  Charlotte  Russe.  Figs.  Nuts. 

Cafe  Noir. 


IVIEIIMU      III. 

Those  palates  who  .... 

Must  have  inventions  to  delight  the  taste.  —Pericles,  i.  4. 

Chicken  Soup  a  la  Reine.         Amber  Broth. 
Boiled  Cod.  Oyster  Sauce  with  Capers.       «■  Saddle  of  Mutton. 


Baked  Bananas,  Currant-Jelly  Sauce. 
Hashed  Potatoes,  Baked  with  Cream. 
Roast  Partridge,  Bread  Sauce.  Cress  Salad. 

Whipped  Cream.  Fruit. 

Cafe  Noir. 


Brussels  Sprouts,  Buttered. 

Apple-and-Grape-fruit  Sorbet. 
Mince  Pie.  Stewed  California  Figs. 

Bonbons.  Nuts. 


IVIEIIMU       IV. 
SPREAD,    CHRISTMAS    EVE. 

"  Rise,  happy  morn  ;  rise,  holy  morn 

Draw  forth  the  cheerful  day  from  night. 
O  Father,  touch  the  East  and  light 
The  light  that  shone  when  hope  was  born." 


Creamed  Oysters. 


Rolls. 


Celery.         Olives.         Cold  Turkey  (sliced  thin). 


Chicken  Salad  in  Chou-Paste  Cases. 


Cocoa. 


Nut  Ice-Cream  (Junket). 
Coffee. 


Little  Cakes. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


185 


ECONOMICAL  MENUS  FOR  ONE  WEEK  IN   DECEMBER. 


(Light  Housekeeping,  City,     Family  of  Four  Adults.) 

"  Time  is  money." 

BREAKFAST,   .51. 

Toasted  Wheat,  Cream,  .08. 

Frizzled  Beef,  Potato  Cakes,  .15. 

Toasted  MurTins,  .04. 

Honey,  .20.  Ccffee,  .04. 

DINNER,  .8<>. 

Potato  Soup,  .12. 

Creamed  Fish  and  Oysters,  .40. 

Stewed  Tomatoes,  .08. 

Pineapple  Omelet,  .18. 

Wafers,  .05.  Cafe  Noir,   03. 


BREAKFAST,  .65. 

Wheatena  with  Raisins,  .06. 

Broiled  Oysters,  Celery,  .50 
Toast,  .05. 

Coffee,  .04. 

SUPPER,  .25. 

Welsh  Rarebit,  .09. 

Olives,  .04. 

Sponge  Drops,  Tea,  .12. 


BREAKFAST,  ..Hi. 

BREAKFAST,   ,r>3. 

©V 

Oatmeal,  Bananas,  Milk,  .10. 

Stewed  Peaches,  Cornmeal  Mush,  .12. 

C 

tr. 

Poached  Eggs,  Stewed  Celery,  .17. 

Broiled  Ham,  .25. 

£ 

Toast,  .05.     Coffee,  .04. 

Stewed  Potatoes,  .03. 

72 

to 

DINNER,  $1.23. 

Rye-Meal  Muffins,  .oS.        Cocoa,  .05. 

> 

O 

Clam  Bouillon,  .20. 

< 

Sirloin  Steak,  .50. 

DINNER,  .9  7. 

O 

> 

< 

Q 

Saratogi  Potatoes,  .05. 

Mock  Bisque' Soup,  .15. 

O 

Stringless  Beans  (canned),  .15. 

Chicken  Salad,  Olives,  .50. 

r* 

O 

Lettuce  Salad,  .10. 

Toasted  Muffins,  .04. 

^ 

S 

Stewed  Dates,  Cream,  .20. 

Honey,  Wafers,  .25. 

in 

O 

Cafe  Noir,  .03. 

Cafe  Noir,  .03. 

. 

BREAKFAST,  .35. 

Granola,  Cream,  .08. 

Dried  Beef  in  Cream  Sauce,  .15. 

Oatmeal  Muffins,  .08. 

Coffee,  .04. 

DINNER,  .68. 

Broiled  Haddock,  Cress  Salad,  .30. 

Mashed  Potatoes,  Peas  (canned),  .15. 

Pineapple  Tapioca,  .15. 

Wafers,  .05. 

Cafe  Noir,  .03. 


BREAKFAST,  .33. 

Sausage,  Boiled  Potatoes,  .15. 

Apple  Sauce,  .10. 

Shredded-Wheat  Biscuit,  Toasted,  .04. 

Coffee,  .04. 

DINNER,  $1.18. 

Stewed  Chicken,  Macaroni,  Jelly,  .75 

Lettuce  Salad,  .10. 

Neufchatel  Cheese,  .05. 
Stewed  Figs,  Cream,  .25. 
Cafe  Noir,  .03. 


BREAKFAST,  .33. 

Dried  Apricots,  Stewed,  .12. 

Granose  Flakes,  Cream%  .08. 

Creamed  Chicken,  with  Toast,  .05. 

Hashed  Potatoes,  White,  .04. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .04. 


DINNER,  .70. 

Chopped  Beef,  Creamed  Potatoes,  .25. 

Wax  Beans  (canned),  .12. 

Lettuce-and-Celery  Salad,  .16. 

Coffee  Jelly,  Whipped  Cream,  .14. 

Cafe  Noir,  .03. 


i86 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


IN    REFERENCE    TO    ECONOMICAL    MENUS, 


People  who  rise  leisurely  at  eight 
o'clock,  and  an  hour  later  sit  down  to 
a  daintily  spread  table,  upon  which  are 
fragrant  coffee  and  appetizing  viands 
that  some  one  else  has  prepared, 
scarcely  realize  how  many  go  forth 
each  day  into  this  work-a-day  world 
ill  supplied  with  strength-giving  food. 
And  proper  food  is  not  only  necessary 
for  those  who  are  called  away,  but  it 
is  just  as  essential  to  those  who  re- 
main at  home  ;  for  nervous  prostration, 
largely  the  result  of  malnutrition,  is  as 
likely  to  be  the  heritage  of  the  one  as 
the  other.  Nerves  must  be  nourished 
and  strengthened,  if  they  are  not  to 
become  riotous  and  to  dominate  the 
whole  being. 

The  properly  fed  man  or  woman 
is  too  happy  and  contented  to  scold 
and  fret ;  under  this  condition,  nerves 
are  not  easily  disturbed.  The  seam- 
stress, the  house-mother,  the  teacher, 
—  all.  in  proportion  to  the  tax  upon 
the  nervous  system,  require  suitable 
food  to  compensate  the  waste  of  nerve 
tissues ;  and  for  such  as  these  to 
sit  down,  anywhere,  twice  a  day  to 
cold  bread  and  butter  with  strong  tea 
is  the  sure  forerunner  of  nervous  dis- 
orders. Nor  does  the  addition  of  a 
dish  of  hot  "cereal"  help  the  matter 
very  much ;  indeed,  the  latter,  espe- 
cially if  it  be  eaten  with  sugar,  is  often 
the  very  item  that  is  most  apt  to  pro- 
duce that  ill  condition  known  as  "  sour 
stomach  ;  "  and  this  is  always  accom- 
panied by  irritability  and  fractious- 
ness. 

The  woman  at  her  sewing  cannot 
take  with  impunity  a  cup  of  strong 
tea  three  or  four  times  a  day  to  enable 


her,  as  she  says,  to  do  her  work.  Tea 
is  not  food  in  any  sense  ;  it  neither 
builds  up  nor  repairs  tissues.  Strong 
tea  simply  produces  nervous  excite- 
ment, which  must,  of  necessity,  be 
followed  by  nervous  exhaustion.  In- 
dulged in  occasionally,  made  of  freshly 
boiling  water  poured  over  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  tea  leaves  and  drank  at  once, 
before  the  tannin  and  theine  have 
been  extracted,  tea  is  a  mild  and  re- 
freshing stimulant.  It  is  grateful  to 
tired  nerves  after  a  walk  in  the  storm 
or  a  day  of  toil;  but  its  usefulness 
ends  here.  Then  wholesome,  appetiz- 
ing food  is  needful.  Indeed,  in  this 
matter  of  hygienic  living,  food  ever 
stands  first  in  importance  ;  all  else,  in- 
cluding kind  of  clothing  and  shelter, 
are  minor  considerations. 

In  feeding  a  family,  money  is  not  the 
only,  and  perhaps  not  the  most  essen- 
tial, item  ;  there  must  be  some  expen- 
diture of  money,  but  the  knowledge  of 
how  to  spend  that  money  to  the  best 
advantage,  to  get  the  largest  return  in 
food  values,  is  most  needful.  The 
young  woman  is  wise  who,  even  if  she 
caters  for  herself  alone,  gives  sufficient 
thought  and  attention  to  the  matter  to 
enable  her  to  select  suitable  food  for 
herself  either  at  the  restaurant  or  for 
the  preparation  of  meals  at  her  home. 

Now,  as  to  the  comparative  expense 

—  excluding  gas  and  a  suitable  room 

—  of  meals  at  a  restaurant  and  meals 
prepared  in  one's  room,  a  word  may 
be  acceptable.  Breakfast  and  supper 
may  be  gotten  at  a  tolerably  good  res- 
taurant for  twenty-five  cents  each,  and 
dinner  for  thirty-five  cents  ;  but  anyone 
who  has  tried  a  restaurant,  for  a  week 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


'87 


even,  knows  that  in  the  matter  of 
variety  and  palatableness  of  the  food, 
as  well  as  in  the  amount  of  money  ex- 
pended for  the  same,  the  gain  is  on 
the  side  of  light  housekeeping,  provided 
that  those  who  undertake  the  latter 
understand  the  rudiments  of  cookery. 
True,  it  takes  time  and  labor  to  select 
and  prepare  food ;  but,  if  this  be  well 
carried  out,  the  gain  to  health  will  more 
than  compensate  for  the  effort  made. 


Our  economical  menus  for  Decem- 
ber are  planned  for  adults,  who  are 
occupied  abroad  and  take  a  light 
luncheon  away  from  home.  The  din- 
ner Sunday,  also,  is  to  be  taken  outside 
the  home,  so  as  to  give  one  day  of 
comparative  freedom  from  care ;  and 
yet  where  four  adults  take  charge  of 
two  daily  meals  much  time  need  not 
be  spent  in  the  details  of  housekeeping 
by  any  one  of  them. 

Menus  might  have  been  given  at  a 
lower  cost,  but  as  only  a  small  amount 
of  time  could  be  allowed  in  the  prepa- 
ration, materials  have  been  selected 
that  could  be  quickly  manipulated  and 
cooked.  A  gas  or  oil  stove  may  be 
used,  and  the  larger  part  of  the  food  is 
such  as  can  be  cooked  upon  the  top  of 
the  range,  thus  keeping  down  the  cost 
of  fuel. 

Preparations  for  dinner  may  be  car- 
ried on  while  breakfast  is  being  made 
ready,  and  for  the  breakfast  next 
day  while  the  dinner  is  being  cleared 
away.  In  this  case,  leftovers  should 
be  avoided ;  she  who  selects  the  sup- 


plies should  know  just  how  much  of 
the  various  articles  are  needed,  and 
buy  accordingly. 

Canned  articles  should  be  bought  by 
the  dozen.  Time  cannot  be  given  up  to 
bread-making,  but  well-baked  baker's 
bread  should  be  selected,  and  muffins 
of  several  kinds  can  be  made  occasion- 
ally. Either  of  these  well  toasted  affords 
a  change  in  this  staple  article  of  diet. 
Canned  chicken  serves  for  the  salad. 
If  the  chicken  be  young  and  tender,  it 
may  be  cooked  on  Friday  before  leav- 
ing the  house  in  the  morning,  then  set 
aside  and  reheated  or  saute'd  at  the 
dinner  hour  ;  also  the  macaroni  and  figs 
may  be  cooked  in  the  morning  ;  at 
night  a  sauce  may  be  made,  and  the 
macaroni  can  be  reheated  in  this,  cov-' 
ered  with  buttered  crumbs  and  placed 
under  the  gas  flame  long  enough  to 
brown  the  crumbs. 

For  the  chopped  beef,  buy  a  piece 
of  round  steak,  have  this  chopped  fine, 
then  put  it  into  a  very  hot  frying-pan 
and  stir  and  cook  four  or  five  minutes, 
then  add  a  little  hot  water,  butter,  salt, 
and  pepper. 

If  the  coffee  jelly  is  to  be  made 
from  genuine  coffee,  make  the  requisite 
quantity  at  the  breakfast  hour,  and  at 
serving-time  turn  all  the  liquid  from 
the  grounds,  then  return  the  same  to 
the  well-cleaned  coffee-pot.  What 
remains  after  breakfast  may  be  used 
for  the  jelly.  The  cereal  coffee  well 
prepared  makes  delicately  flavored 
jellies,  and,  eaten  with  cream,  affords  a 
nourishing  dessert. 


88 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


RECIPES  FROM  BREAD  LESSON  AT  BOSTON  COOKING- 
SCHOOL. 


Quaker-  Oats  Biscuit. 

I'pon.one  cup  of  rolled  oats  pour 
two  cups  of  boiling  water,  and  let 
stand  one  hour ;  add  half  a  cup  of 
molasses,  half  a  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
and  half  a  yeastcake  dissolved  in  half 
a  cup  of  lukewarm  water  ;  then  add  four 
cups  of  flour,  beat  thoroughly,  and  let 
rise.  Beat  again,  and  shape  into. bis- 
cuits. Let  rise  in  pan,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Entire-  Wheat  Bread. 

On  to  one  tablespoonful  of  shorten- 
ing, two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses, 
and  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  salt 
pour  one  cup  of  boiling  water  and  one 
cup  of  scalded  milk  ;  when  lukewarm 
add  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dis- 
solved in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  lukewarm 
water,  one  cup  of  white  flour,  and 
enough  entire-wheat  tiour  to  knead. 
Knead  until  elastic,  then  cover,  and  let 
rise  until  the  dough  has  doubled  its 
bulk.  Cut  down  and  shape  into  loaves. 
When  again  light  bake  about  fifty 
minutes. 

Dinner  Rolls. 

Pour  two  cups  of  scalded  milk  on  to 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt ;  when  lukewarm  add  one 
cake  of  compressed  yeast,  dissolved  in 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  lukewarm  water, 
and  three  cups  of  Hour.  Beat  thor- 
oughly, cover,  and  let  rise  until  light ; 
cut  down  and  add  Hour  enough  to 
knead.  Let  rise  again.  Shape,  place 
in  buttered  pan,  again  let  rise,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  minutes. 
Tomato  Cream  Soup. 

Scald  one  quart  of  milk  with  half  an 


onion,  five  or  six  cloves,  a  bit  of  bay 
leaf,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  and  two-thirds 
a  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs.  Remove 
the  seasoning,  and  pass  the  bread 
through  a  sieve.  Cook  two  cups  of 
tomatoes  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
sugar  fifteen  minutes  ;  add  one-fourth 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  pass  through  a 
sieve,  and  add  to  the  bread  and  milk. 
Add  five  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in 
bits,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Serve  with 

Imperial  Sticks. 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-eighth-inch 
slices,  remove  the  crusts,  spread  with 
butter,  and  cut  slices  in  one  eighth-inch 
strips  ;  bake  until  delicately  browned. 
Arrange  in  rings  of  bread  also  browned. 
Eggs  on  Toast. 

Saute'  circular  pieces  of  stale  bread; 
pour  over  them  a  white  sauce,  and  ar- 
range on  the  edge  of  each  piece  a  ring 
of  chopped  ham  ;  inside  this  a  circle  of 
chopped  white  of  egg,  with  sifted  yolk 
of  egg  in  the  centre.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 

.Orange  Pudding. 

Let  one  cup  and  a  third  of  stale 
bread  crumbs  soak  in  one  cup  of  cold 
water  twenty  minutes  ;  add  one  cup  of 
sugar,  one  cup  of  orange  juice,  one 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  two  eggs 
and  one  egg  yolk  slightly  beaten,  one 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  one- 
fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bake  in 
a  buttered  pudding-dish  in  a  slow  oven 
until  firm.  Let  cool  slightly,  and  cover 
with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of 
two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  one-fourth  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  orange  extract. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


189 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES. 

(In  all  recipes  where  flour  is  used,  unless  otherwise  stated,  the  flour  is  measured 
after  sifting  once.  When  flour  is  measured  by  cups,  the  cup  is  filled  with  a 
spoon  and  a  level  cupful  is  meant.  A  tablespoonful  or  a  teaspoonful  of  any 
designated  material  is  a  level  spoonful  of  such  material^) 

Amber  Soup.  fowl,  and  strain  off  the  broth.     When 
Brown  three  pounds  of  beef  from  the  cold  remove  the  fat,  avoiding  the  set- 
hind  shin,  cut  in   small  pieces,  in  part  tlings,    and   stir   into  the   rest    of    the 
of  the  marrow  from  the  bone,  add  one-  stock   the   slightly   beaten   whites  and 


BEEF  A   LA  MODE. 


fourth  a  pound  of  ham  and  the  shin 
bone,  with  three  quarts  of  cold  water, 
and  let  cook  just  below  the  boiling- 
point —  the  water  "quivering"  atone 
side  of  the  kettle  —  three  hours;  then 
add  a  fowl  cut  in  halves,  an  onion  and 
half  a  carrot  cut  in  slices,  a  stalk  of 
celery,  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley,  three 
cloves,  and  half  a  dozen  peppercorns, 
all,  save  the  last  three,  browned  in 
marrow  ;  let  cook  as  before  until  the 
chicken    is    tender ;    then    remove  the 


crushed  shells  of  three  eggs  ;  stir  until 
the  soup  boils,  then  let  boil  five  min- 
utes ;  let  stand  ten  minutes,  then  skim 
and  strain  through  cheese-cloth;  reheat 
and  serve. 

Beef  a  la  Mode. 
With  strips  of  cloth  bind  six  or  eight 
pounds  of  beef  from  the  round  into  cir- 
cular shape.  Make  incisions  with  a 
sharp  knife,  and  into  these  press  strips 
of  salt  pork  half  an  inch  thick ;  make 
other  incisions,   and  press   into    these 


190 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


bread  stuffing.  Heat  drippings  or  trim- 
mings from  the  salt  pork,  and  in  this 
brown  the  outside  of  the  meat,  together 
with  two  onions  and  half  a  carrot  sliced ; 
then  half  cover  with  boiling  water,  and 
let  simmer  until  tender.  Garnish  with 
boiled  onions,  seasoned,  basted  with 
butter,  and  browned  in  a  hot  oven. 
Skim  the  fat  from  the  liquid  in  which 
the  meat  was  cooked,  thicken  the  lat- 
ter  with   flour  and   water,  strain,  and 


each,  of  white  stock  and  tomato  pulp, 
and  in  this  simmer  the  fowl  until  ten- 
der, adding  more  stock  if  needed. 
Arrange  the  joints  in  a  circle  upon  the 
serving -dish.  To  the  sauce  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar,  and 
other  seasonings  as  required,  and  re- 
heat in  it  one-fourth  a  pound  of  maca- 
roni cooked  and  blanched.  With  this 
fill  in  the  centre  of  the  circle.  Garnish 
with  celery  leaves  or  parsley. 


CREOLE  CHICKEN. 


serve  as  a  sauce  with  the  meat.  If 
there  be  considerable  liquid,  thicken  a 
part,  and  set  aside  the  meat  to  cool  in 
the  rest. 

Creole  Chicken. 
Joint  a  young  fowl ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  saute  to  a  golden 
brown  in  hot  salt-pork  fat  or  butter, 
together  with  two  onions  sliced  thin. 
When  all  are  well  browned,  remove 
the  fowl,  and  cook  one -fourth  a  cup 
of  flour  in  the  fat;  then  add  one  cup, 


Boiled  Chicken. 
Clean  and  truss  a  chicken  and  cover 
with  boiling  water,  adding  a  stalk  of 
celery ;  let  boil  five  minutes,  then  set 
where  the  water  will  bubble  on  one 
side  of  the  kettle  without  ceasing  until 
the  chicken  is  tender ;  add  salt  when 
half  cooked.  Place  on  a  serving-dish, 
and  pour  over  a 

CAPER    SAUCE. 

Melt  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter  and 
add  one-fourth  a  cup  of  flour  with  half 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE. 


I9I 


a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pap- 
rica ;  when  bubbling,  add  nearly  one 
pint  of  the  cooled  liquid  in  which  the 
fowl  was  cooked.  When  cooked,  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  capers ;  when 
ready  to  serve,  remove  from  the  fire, 
and  stir  in  one  egg  beaten  with  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon.     Or  serve  a 

CAULIFLOWER    SAUCE. 

Prepare  in  the  same  manner  as  the 


kin,  surround  with  parsley,  and   serve 
with 

CREAM    HORSERADISH    SAUCE. 

Make  a  sauce  of  two  tablespoonfuls, 
each,  of  butter  and  flour,  salt,  and  half 
a  cup,  each,  of  white  stock  and  milk. 
When  cooked,  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  one-fourth  a  cup  of  sweet  cream, 
and  one-third  a  cup  of  grated  horse- 
radish;  let  heat  without  boiling. 


''{&£***<■ 

■  ■•  •      • 
■.lv   ;        ■ 

HML 

1 

m0> 

FRIED  SMELTS. 


caper  sauce,  using  half  cream  and  half 
chicken  liquor,  and  part  of  a  cauli- 
flower separated  into  flowerets. 
Boiled  Salt  Mackerel. 
Let  soak  twelve  hours,  changing  the 
water  several  times.  Cover  with  fresh 
water,  add  a  dash  of  vinegar,  a  bay 
leaf,  branch  of  parsley,  and  half  an 
onion,  sliced.  As  soon  as  the  water 
boils,  remove  the  kettle  to  a  place 
where  the  water  will  bubble  slightly  on 
one  side ;  let  stand  fifteen  minutes, 
drain  the  fish,  dress  on  a  folded  nap- 


Fried  Smelts. 

Roll  the  cleaned  and  dried  fish,  sea- 
soned with  salt  and  pepper,  in  flour, 
then  in  egg  and  fine  bread  crumbs. 
Fry  at  once  in  deep,  hot  fat ;  drain  on 
soft  paper.  Pass  silver  skewers  through 
the  eyes  of  each  three  or  four  smelts,  a 
slice  of  lemon  on  top.  Serve  a  skewer 
of  fish  as  a  portion. 

Crown  of  Pork  with  Small  Onions. 

Cut  pieces  containing  six  cutlets 
from  each  side  of  a  rack  of  pork,  hav- 
ing the  two  pieces  of  same  length  and 


192 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


height ;  remove  the  backbone,  and 
make  an  incision  between  the  ribs ; 
trim  each  rib  above  the  eye;  turn  the 
eyes  of  the  cutlets  inside,  and  the  rib 
bones  outside,  and  sew  the  two  pieces 
together.  Mix  a  cup  of  sausage  meat 
with  a  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs  soft- 
ened in  cold  water  and  wrung  dry, 
adding  also  an  egg  beaten  slightly. 
Put  the  crown  in  the  baking-pan,  and 
the  sausage  mixture  in  the  open  space 


Cauliflower  Salad. 

Dress  a  well-washed  head  of  lettuce 
with  oil,  vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper ;  ar- 
range upon  a  serving-dish  with  part 
of  a  head  of  cauliflower  broken  into 
flowerets  and  marinated  with  French 
dressing.  Pass  mayonnaise  dressing 
if  desired. 

Chicken  Puree  a  la  Reine. 

Remove  the  meat  from  a  roast 
chicken,  and  chop  and  pound  it  thor- 


CAULIFLOWER  SALAD. 


inside  the  crown,  dredge  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  flour,  and  bake  about  two 
hours,  basting  every  ten  minutes,  in 
slow  oven,  after  the  outside  of  the  pork 
is  seared  over.  Saute  to  a  delicate 
brown  enough  small  peeled  onions  to 
fill  the  crown;  add  stock,  and  let  cook 
until  tender,  glazing  the  onions  with 
the  stock  as  it  cooks  away.  Dress  the 
crown  on  a  serving -dish,  filling  the 
centre  with  the  onions,  and  placing 
parsley  around.  Serve  with  this  dish 
apple  or  tomato  sauce. 


oughly  with  half  a  cup  of  rice  boiled 
until  tender.  Put  the  chicken  bones, 
the  skin,  and  a  few  bits  of  veal,  if  at 
hand,  over  the  fire  in  two  quarts  of 
cold  water ;  add  an  onion,  sliced,  a 
sprig  of  parsley,  a  few  slices  of  carrot, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  sweet  herbs,  and 
half  a  dozen  peppercorns ;  let  simmer 
about  an  hour ;  strain  into  the  chicken 
and  rice,  and  pass  the  whole  through  a 
puree  sieve.  When  cool  remove  the 
fat  from  the  top  ;  let  heat  without  boil- 
ing, season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pep- 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


193 


per,  and,  when  ready  to  serve,  stir  in 
half  a  cup  of  scalding  hot  cream. 
Giblet  Soup. 
Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into 
a  frying-pan,  and  when  hot  brown  in 
it  an  onion,  one  small  carrot,  and,  also, 
part  of  a  turnip,  sliced.  When  they 
begin  to  brown,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour  and  the  giblets  of  four  chickens 
or  two  turkeys,  saute  to  a  golden  brown, 


Brussels  Sprouts  with  Butter. 
Boil  one  quart  of  Brussels  sprouts 
in  two  quarts  of  salted  water,  about 
fifteen  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Let 
drain  in  a  cloth,  then  toss  in  a  frying- 
pan  with  a  scant  fourth  a  cup  of  butter, 
until  the  butter  is  absorbed ;  sprinkle 
with  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  pars- 
ley and  a  dash  of  salt ;  mix,  and  ar- 
range in  a  mound  on    a   serving-dish. 


BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  WITH   BUTTER. 


cut  the  giblets  in  small  pieces,  and  put 
all  into  the  soup  kettle,  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  three  quarts  of  cold  water 
or  stock ;  let  simmer  five  hours,  then 
strain.  Brown  one-fourth  a  cup  of 
flour  in  the  same  amount  of  browned 
butter,  dilute  and  cook  with  a  little  cold 
stock  or  water,  and  stir  into  the  soup  ; 
also  pass  one  of  the  livers  through  a 
sieve  into  the  soup,  add  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  and,  if  convenient,  the 
yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg  for  each  plate. 


Surround    with    points    of    toasted    or 
fried  bread. 

Cornmeal  Waffles. 
Sift  together  two  cups  and  one -half 
of  flour,  half  a  cup  of  cornmeal, 
three  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt ; 
add  very  gradually  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  beaten  and  diluted  with  one  pint 
of  rich  milk;  add  also  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  melted  butter,  and  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  beaten  until  dry. 


i94 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


Cornmeal-and-Rice  Waffles. 
Sift  together  half  a  cup  of  cornmeal, 
half  a  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder;  add  one  cup  of  cold  boiled 
rice  (the  grains  should  be  distinct), 
then  gradually  mix  with  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  beaten  and  diluted  with  one 
cup  and  a  half  of  milk ;  lastly,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  until  dry. 


the    centre    comes   out    clean.      Score 
across  the  top  at   right  angles   to  the 
pan-handle,  fold  and  turn  on  to  a  hot 
platter. 
Puree   of  Chestnuts    with     Whipped 

Cream. 
Shell  and  blanch  one  pound  of  Ital- 
ian chestnuts;  cook  in  boiling  water 
until  tender  ;  drain,  and  pass  through 
a  puree  sieve;  add  half  a  cup  of  sugar 
and  a  little  hot  cream  ;   cook  two  or 


PUREE  OF  CHESTNUTS. 


Canned-Corn  Omelet. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  until 
light ;  add  one-fourth  a  cup  of  cream 
or  milk,  one  cup  of  canned  corn  or 
kornlet,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
a  dash  of  pepper.  Mix  thoroughly, 
then  fold  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
beaten  until  dry.  Melt  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter  in  an  omelet-pan,  pour  in 
the  mixture,  let  stand  on  the  hot  cover 
until  set  on  the  bottom,  then  put  into 
the  oven  until   a  knife  cut   down   into 


three  minutes,  remove  from  the  fire, 
and  flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  extract;  stir  in  half  a  cup  of 
candied  cherries  cut  in  pieces,  and 
form  into  a  mound.  To  a  cup  of  thick 
cream  add  one-fourth  a  cup  of  milk, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  one- 
third  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  beat  solid. 
With  a  part  of  the  cream  cover  the 
mound  of  chestnuts;  use  the  remain- 
der for  a  garnish.  Decorate  with  can- 
died cherries  and  serve  very  cold. 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


I  95 


Apples  with  Rice. 
Cook  one  cup  of  washed  rice  in  boil- 
ing salted  water  until  tender,  adding 
more  water  as  needed.  When  done 
the  water  should  be  absorbed  and  the 
kernels  distinct.  Line  small  buttered 
cups  with  the  rice ;  fill  the  centres 
closely  with  slices  of  apple  cooked  un- 
til tender  in  sugar  and  water ;  cover  the 
apple  with  more  rice,  rounding  the  top 


of  English  walnuts  or  pecan  nuts ;  roll 
up  tightly;  then  roll  again  in  powdered 
sugar. 

Pea?iut  Candy. 
Boil  one  pint  of  New  Orleans  mo- 
lasses until  it  snaps  in  cold  water  ;  add 
the  juice  of  one  lemon  ;  let  boil  one 
minute,  then  add  two  level  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  soda.  As  the  soda  causes  the 
molasses   to   rise,  stir   in  the  peanuts. 


APPLES  WITH   RICE. 


slightly.  Let  steam  or  cook  in  the 
oven,  standing  in  a  dish  of  hot  water, 
about  fifteen  minutes.  Turn  from  the 
moulds  on  to  a  serving-dish,  and  serve 
hot  with  a  cold  boiled  custard  made  of 
a  pint  of  milk,  half  a  cup  of  sugar, 
one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Decorate  with 
candied  cherries. 

Fig-a7id-Nut  Confections. 
Cut    choice    pressed   figs    in    halves 
through    the    blossom    ends ;   sprinkle 
the  inside  of  each  half  with  thin  slices 


Turn  into  a  buttered  dish   and  cut  in 
squares. 

Cocoanut  Candy. 
Boil  two  cups  of  sugar,  half  a 
cup  of  cream,  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  without  stirring  after 
the  sugar  is  melted,  fifteen  minutes; 
flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
or  lemon  extract,  or  use  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  each,  and  stir  in  shredded 
cocoanut  as  desired  ;  stir  until  it  is 
creamy,  then  shape  into  oblongs  or 
balls. 


196 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


Apple  Sorbet. 

Quarter  six  red  apples  without  paring 

or  coring  them  ;  cover  with  water  and 

cook  until  soft ;   strain  through  a  jelly 

bag,    pressing   out    the    juice.      When 


cold  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  three 
grape-fruit,  and  four  oranges  ;  also  a 
cup  of  sugar  for  each  quart  of  juice ; 
stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  ;  then 
freeze  to  a  mush.     Serve  after  the  roast. 


APPLE  SORBET. 


IN  REFERENCE  TO  YULE-TIDE    AND    SEASONABLE  MENUS. 

"O  father,  the  pig,  the  pig  !     Do  come  and  taste  how  nice  the  burnt  pig  tastes." 


In  selecting  dishes  for  our  menus  in 
this  number,  we  have  taken  into  con- 
sideration the  fact  that  fuel  food,  or 
foods  rich  in  fat  or  sugar,  are  needed 
at  this  season,  the  quantity  varying 
according  to  our  habits  of  life,  in  order 
that  the  body  may  be  kept  at  its  nor- 
mal temperature.  But  in  working  out 
these  menus,  we  must  not  lose  sight  of 
the  fact  that  such  food  is  indicated 
only  where  there  is  a  positive  demand 
for  heat  and  energy.      Men  leading  a 


sedentary  life,  women  and  young  chil- 
dren living  in  overheated  rooms  and 
exercising  but  little  in  the  open  air 
need  include  little  of  this  kind  of  food 
in  their  daily  dietary.  While  men  at 
work  in  the  open  air,  or  schoolboys 
who  skate  or  slide  a  goodly  portion  of 
the  day,  and  especially  in  vacation 
time,  need  a  more  generous  supply  of 
these  principles. 

To    supply  this    fatty  element  to  a 
diet,  cream  and  oil  may  be  introduced 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


197 


quite  freely ;  and  at  this  time  we  have 
made  free  use  of  pork  in  various  forms. 
We  are  aware  that  pork  in  these  latter 
days  has  come  to  be  iooked  upon  with 
distrust,  and  is  rarely,  save  in  the  form 
of  ham  or  bacon,  seen  upon  our  tables. 
There  may  be  good  reason  for  this ; 
but,  after  all,  if  we  know  that  the  ani- 
mal from  which  the  roast  is  taken  had 
been  housed  in  a  clean  place  and  fed 
upon  wholesome  food,  who  will  not 
be  tempted,  occasionally,  to  taste  a  sa- 
vory and  fragrant  roast  of  well-crisped 
pork  ?  Who  can  doubt  that  the  "  burnt 
pig,"  that  had  been  fed  upon  mast  by 
Loti,  the  swineherd,  was  as  delectable 
as  it  is  set  forth  in  the  Chinese  manu- 
script transcribed  for  our  edification 
by  Charles  Lamb?  Why  should  not 
young  pigs,  allowed  to  roam  at  will 
in  the  woods  and  fatten  upon  sweet 
acorns,  be  as  wholesome  as  are  tur- 
keys fed  upon  chestnuts  or  corn  ;  for 
does  not  the  pith  of  the  whole  matter 
depend  upon  feeding? 

In  the  traditional  days  of  old,  when 
houses  were  ill-heated  and  the  rigors 
of  a  long,  cold  winter  had  to  be  con- 
tended against  by  rich  and  poor  alike, 
there  was  more  need  of  the  historic 
Christmas  dish,  the  boar's  head  of 
merrie  England,  than  is  apparently 
the  case  to-day ;  still,  in  our  first 
Christmas  menu,  taking  into  consider- 
ation the  character  of  the  family,  we 
have  given  roast  pork  as  the  piece  de 
resistance  of  the  meal.  If  a  more  pre- 
tentious dish  be  desired,  the  crown  of 
pork  may  be  substituted,  the  recipe 
for  which  is  given.  Apple  sauce  is  the 
fitting  accompaniment  to  all  dishes  of 
pork,  ham,  and  bacon.  Great  care 
must  be  exercised  in  roasting  a  loin  or 
chine  of  pork.  Contrary  to  the  gen- 
eral rule,  a   roast   of   pork   should  not 


be  put  into  a  quick  oven,  lest  the  out- 
side be  seared  over  and  prevent  the 
heat  from  penetrating  to  the  inmost 
centre.  Twenty  minutes  to  the  pound 
will  be  required  to  insure  thorough 
cooking. 

Ham  baked  in  cider  is  given  in  the 
seasonable  menus.  After  thorough 
scrubbing,  the  ham  should  be  encased 
completely  in  a  paste  of  flour  and 
water,  then  basted  often  with  cider 
while  in  the  oven.  Just  before  the 
cooking  is  completed,  a  small  opening 
may  be  made  in  the  crust  and  a  cup  of 
hot  cider  poured  in  directly  over  the 
ham.  When  tender  remove  the  crust 
and  such  portion  of  the  skin  as  is 
desired,  brush  over  the  fat  surface  with 
egg,  dust  thickly  with  fine  crumbs,  and 
serve  as  soon  as  the  crumbs  are 
browned.  Ham  and  bacon,  if  prop- 
erly cured,  broiled  or  fried,  needs  little 
cooking.  A  high  temperature  or  long- 
continued  cooking  toughens  the  fibre 
and  impairs  its  digestibility.  The  thin- 
sliced  bacon  of  the  epicure  is  served 
just  as  soon  as  heat  renders  it  trans- 
parent. 

In  our  second  Christmas  menu, 
written  for  a  family  in  which  there  are 
young  children,  the  cheese  souffle  and 
the  coffee  are  the  only  dishes  unsuit- 
able to  the  little  ones. 

In  our  third  menu,  let  the  liquid  for 
the  oyster  sauce  be  taken  from  the 
saucepan  in  which  the  fish  was  cooked, 
supplemented  by  the  oyster  liquor ; 
a  richer  sauce  is  secured  by  adding  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  cream  mixed  with  the 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Do  not  let 
the  sauce  boil  after  the  egg  is  added, 
lest  a  separation  take  place.  Two 
tablespoonfuls  of  capers  or  chopped 
cucumber  pickles  give  the  finishing 
touch  to  a  delicately  acid  sauce. 


tferfferffa 


Queries  and  Answers, 


This  department  is  for  the  benefit  and  free  use  of  our  subscribers. 
Questions  relating  to  menus  and  recipes,  and  those  pertaining  to  culinary 
science  and  domestic  economics  in  general,  will  be  cheerfully  answered 
by  the  Editor.  Communications  for  this  department  must  reach  us  before  the  first  of  the  month 
preceding  that  in  which  the  answers  are  expected  to  appear.  Address  queries  to  Janet  M.  Hill, 
Editor,  Boston  Cooking- School  Magazine,  372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


Query  281. —  Miss  E.  A.  S.,  ATew 
York  :  "Menu  for  a  wedding  breakfast 
early  i?i  Dece?nber ;  would  like  to  include 
oranges,  ?'ice  croquettes,  mousse  de  poulct, 
and,  perhaps,  creamed  oysters,  also  a 
fruit  jelly  with  whipped  cream.  Pink 
is  to  be  the  prevailing  color.'''' 

Menus  for    Wedding  Breakfast. 

I. 

Hot  Baked  Apples  (cored  and  pared),  Cream. 

Baked  Turbans  of  Halibut,  Shrimp  or  Hollan- 

daise  Sauce. 

Potato  Balls.         Olives. 

Lamb  Chops,  Breaded,  Tomato  Sauce. 

Rolls  or  Breadsticks. 

Rice  Croquettes,  Maple  Syrup. 

Coffee  (throughout  the  meal). 

II. 

Salpicon  of  Fruit  in  Grape-fruit  Half-Shell. 

Fried  Oysters.     Mayonnaise  of  Celery. 

Rolls. 

Fillets  of  Beef  Tenderloin  on  Toast,  Brown 

Mushroom  Sauce. 

(Pink)  Orange  Jelly,  Whipped  Cream. 

Little  Cakes. 

Coffee  (throughout  the  meal). 

III. 

Oranges. 

Creamed  or  Scalloped  Oysters. 

Olives  or  Pickles. 

Hot  Biscuit  or  Breadsticks. 

Mousse  de  Poulet,  Celery  Salad. 

Nut  Sandwiches. 

(Pink)  Lemon  Sherbet.  Fancy  Cakes. 

Coffee  (throughout  the  meal). 

Seat  the  guests  at  small  tables  or 
three  large  ones,  and  serve  from  the 
side,  and  upon  individual  plates. 


Coffee  should  be  passed  at  the  be- 
ginning of  the  meal,  and  the  cups  re- 
plenished as  needed. 

Put  a  little  square  of  light-colored 
currant  jelly  on  the  top  of  each  baked 
apple,  or  bits  of  the  same,  here  and 
there,  upon  the  whipped  cream. 

To  a  quart  of  white  or  hollandaise 
sauce  add  a  can  of  shrimps  broken  in 
pieces;  serve  a  little  of  the  sauce  upon 
each  turban  of  fish,  and  at  the  side 
three  or  four  potato  balls,  buttered  and 
sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley. 

The  turbans,  also  the  chops,  oysters 
for  frying,  rice  croquettes,  fillets  of 
beef,  etc.,  may  be  made  ready  for  the 
final  cooking  the  day  preceding  the 
breakfast. 

Insert  a  maraschino  cherry,  or  three 
or  four  preserved  strawberries,  in  the 
centre  of  each  croquette.  If  desired, 
instead  of  the  maple  syrup  serve  with 
the  croquettes  a  sauce  made  of  hot 
water,  thickened  with  arrowroot,  and 
flavored  with  liquid  from  the  cherries ; 
add,  also,  a  few  cherries  cut  in  halves. 

For  the  salpicon  of  fruit  use  white 
grapes,  skinned  and  seeded,  slices  of 
banana,  and  the  juice  and  pulp  of 
oranges  or  grape-fruit  sweetened  to 
taste  with  powdered  sugar.  If  bread- 
sticks  are  used,  provide  them  about 
four  inches  long,  and  three-fourths  an 
inch  thick,  and  tie  in  bunches  of  three 
with  narrow  pink  ribbon. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


I99 


For  the  fillets  of  beef  purchase  two 
and  a  half  or  three  pounds  of  tender- 
loin at  about  thirty-five  cents  per  pound ; 
cut  this  into  rounds  about  two  inches 
in  diameter  and  half  an  inch  thick ; 
lard,  if  desired ;  broil,  and  pour  over 
each  piece  a  spoonful  of  brown  sauce, 
to  which  one  or  two  bottled  mushrooms 
cut  in  halves  have  been  added. 

Give  the  orange  jelly  a  pink  tint  by 
the  use  of  pink  gelatine ;  mould  in  in- 
dividual cups,  having  a  slice  of  orange 
near  the  bottom  of  each  cup. 

Serve  the  mousse  de  poulet  and  the 
salad  on  the  same  plate,  garnishing 
with  radishes  cut  to  resemble  roses. 

In  making  the  sandwiches,  use  may- 
onnaise dressing  instead  of  butter,  and 
sliced  rather  than  chopped  nuts. 

Serve  the  sherbet  in  small  glass  cups, 
or  in  china  sorbet  cups.  The  latter 
are  usually  accompanied  by  a  saucer. 


Query  282. —  F.  E.  P.,  Davenport, 
la.  :  "  Recipes  for  grace  cup  made  with 
cider;    a   new  stuffing  for    roast  goose, 
a?id  a  sauce  to  accompany  the  same." 
Stuffing  for  Roast  Goose,  Etc. 

Steam  together  ten  apples,  pared, 
quartered,  and  cored,  three-fourths  a 
cup  of  dried  currants,  and  half  a  cup 
of  seeded  raisins;  beat  thoroughly, 
and  mix  with  two  cups  of  stale  bread 
crumbs ;  add  one  or  two  eggs  as 
needed,  and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Gar- 
nish the  cooked  goose  with  broiled 
sausages,  and  serve  with  a  gooseberry 
sauce,  or  with  apple  and  barberry  jelly. 
Recipe  for  Grace  Cup. 

Will  some  one  of  our  subscribers  send 
us  the  desired  recipe  ?  We  will  forward 
the  same  to  our  querist. — Editor. 


Scotch  Haggis. 
Use  the  stomach,  liver,  lights,  and 
heart  of  a  sheep  or  lamb ;  wash  the 
stomach  thoroughly,  inside  and  out, 
and  let  lie  in  salt  and  water  about 
twenty-four  hours ;  cover  the  liver, 
lights,  and  heart  with  boiling  water, 
let  cook  five  minutes ;  then  drain,  cover 
with  cold  water,  drain  again,  and  chop 
fine ;  also  chop  a  pound  of  suet  very 
fine.  Brown  a  pound  of  oatmeal  in 
the  oven.  Mix  all  these  ingredients 
together  with  salt,  pepper,  chopped 
parsley  and  onions,  from  two  to  ten, 
chopped  fine ;  then  add  one  pint  of  milk 
or  stock ;  put  the  mixture  into  the 
paunch,  and  close  the  opening  by  sew- 
ing ;  prick  the  outside  with  a  larding- 
needle,  and  let  cook  in  boiling  water 
three  or  four  hours.  We  cannot  speak 
of  this  dish  from  experience  ;  the  recipe 
is  from  an  English  cook-book. 


Query  284. —  Miss  F.  E.  P.,  Daven- 
port, la. :  "Are  beef  sweetbreads  used 
as  food '?  " 

Sweetbreads. 

Sweetbreads  are  found  in  calves, 
lambs,  and  young  pigs.  They  are  a 
divided  gland,  the  two  parts  of  which 
are  connected  by  a  membrane;  one 
section  lies  near  the  throat,  the  other, 
called  the  heart  sweetbread,  near  the 
heart.  This  organ  disappears  when 
the  young  animal  is  taken  from  a  milk 
diet.  Veal  sweetbreads  are  the  best 
known.  The  pancreas,  or  sweetbread, 
of  the  ox  is  an  entirely  different  organ 
from  sweetbread  proper ;  it  is  tough, 
requires  long,  slow  cooking,  and  is  not 
to  be  considered  a  delicacy. 


Query   283.—  M.    G.  B.,    Bedford, 
O. :  "  Recipe  for  genuine  Scotch  haggis." 


Query  285.—  Mrs.  F.  S.   W.,  Gard- 
ner, Mass. :  "A  recipe  for  lobster  New- 


burg^' 


200 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


Lobster  Niewburg. 
Remove  the  meat  from  the  shells  of 
two  lobsters  and  cut  it  into  delicate 
slices.  Put  four  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter in  the  blazer  of  a  chafing-dish,  and, 
when  it  melts,  put  in  the  lobster,  and 
let  cook  four  or  five  minutes.  Add 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful  of  pepper,  a  grating  of 
nutmeg,  two  tablespoonfuls,  each,  of 
sherry  wine  and  brandy.  Stir  one  cup 
of  cream  into  the  beaten  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  and  both  into  the  lobster  mix- 
ture. Serve  as  soon  as  the  eggs  thicken 
the  sauce. 


Query  286. —  A  subscriber,  Hart- 
ford, Conn. :  "A  recipe  for  Devonshire 
cream.  The  best  way  of  making  break- 
fast coffee  and  chocolated 

Devonshire  Cream. 

Let  a  pan  of  milk  stand  in  a  cool 
place  from  twelve  to  twenty-four  hours ; 
then  set  over  the  fire,  and  let  come 
very  slowly  to  the  scalding-point  with- 
out boiling.  Remove  to  a  cool  place 
for  six  to  twelve  hours ;  then  skim  off 
the  cream,  which  will  be  quite  firm, 
and  of  a  peculiarly  sweet  flavor. 
Breakfast  Coffee. 

Into  a  well-aired  and  well  -  scalded 
coffee-pot  put  twice  as  many  level  table- 
spoonfuls of  ground  coffee  as  there  are 
cups  to  be  served ;  add  as  many  egg- 
shells, washed  before  the  eggs  were 
broken,  as  there  are  cups  to  be  served, 
or  use  the  white  of  one  egg  (this  will 
be  sufficient  to  clear  about  seven  table- 
spoonfuls of  coffee).  Add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cold  water  for  each  cup  of 
liquid,  and  mix  thoroughly ;  add  the 
requisite  number  of  cups  of  boiling 
water,  and  let  boil  five  minutes.  Pour 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  cold  water  down 
the  spout,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of 


fresh  coffee,  and  set  the  pot  where  it 
will  keep  hot,  without  simmering,  ten 
minutes.  Close  the  nozzle  of  the  pot 
with  tissue  paper  before  boiling  begins. 
Breakfast  Chocolate. 
Melt  two  ounces  of  chocolate  over 
hot  water;  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  and,  gradually,  one  cup  of  hot 
water ;  let  cook  until  smooth  and 
glossy,  then  beat  in  very  gradually 
three  cups  of  hot  milk;  strain  through 
a  cheese-cloth,  reheat  and  serve. 

Query  287. —  L.  F.  P.,  Washington, 
Mo. :   " Recipe  for nut  cake." 
Nut  Cake. 

Beat  half  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream, 
add  gradually  one  cup  of  sugar,  then 
one  cup  of  nut  meats,  broken  into 
pieces ;  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
until  thick,  add  gradually  one  cup  of 
sugar,  and  beat  into  the  butter,  sugar 
and  nuts ;  add  alternately  one  cup  of 
milk  and  three  cups  and  one -fourth 
of  pastry  flour,  into  which  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  soda  and  two  level  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cream-of-tartar  have  been 
sifted;  flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  extract,  and  fold  into  the  mixture 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs. 


Query  288.— Mrs.  A.  G.  H. :  "Rec- 
ipe for  chicken  in  casserole. n 

Casserole  of  Chicken. 

Disjoint  a  young  chicken.  Heat 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  cas- 
serole, and  saute  in  it  a  small  onion 
and  half  a  carrot,  both  cut  in  slices. 
Add  a  bay  leaf,  the  chicken,  and  one 
cup  and  a  half  of  white  stock;  cover 
closely,  and  let  cook  three-fourths  an 
hour,  or  until  nearly  tender.  Add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sherry,  a  dozen  po- 
tato balls,  cut  with  French  cutter  and 
browned,  and  half  a  dozen  mushroom 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


20I 


caps,  peeled  and  saute'd  in  butter. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  let  cook 
ten  minutes,  remove  the  fat,  and  serve 
in  the  casserole. 


Query  289. —  Miss  S.  D.f.,  A nnis- 
ton,  Ala. :  "Recipe  for  making  mayon- 
naise dressing  to  mould  in  figures,  as  on 
page  31  q,  April- May  issue;  also  recipe 
for  '  egg  noodles.'" 

Mayonnaise  Dressing,  with  Pastry  Bag 
and  Tube. 

For  decorating  with  forcing-bag  and 
tube,  mayonnaise  requires  from  half  to 
a  whole  cup  of  additional  oil;  or,  after 
the  dressing  has  been  made  with  the 
usual  quantity  of  oil,  beat  in,  gradually, 
from  two  tablespoonfuls  to  half  a  cup 
of  aspic  jelly,  liquid  but  cold.  Mayon- 
naise should  be  thoroughly  chilled  be- 
fore and  after  it  has  been  forced  through 
the  tube. 

Recipe  for  Mayonnaise. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  fresh  raw  eggs 
with  a  small  wooden  spoon  or  silver 
fork ;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  few  grains  of  paprica  or  cayenne, 
and,  if  desired,  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of 
powdered  sugar  and  mustard;  then 
add  07ie  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  or  lemo?i 
juice,  and,  when  well  mixed  with  the 
other  ingredients,  add  one  pint  of  olive 
oil,  at  first  drop  by  drop.  When  the 
mixture  has  become  of  good  consist- 
ency, the  oil  may  be  added  faster,  and 
it  may  be  beaten  in  with  a  Dover  egg- 
beater.  When  the  dressing  is  too  thick 
to  beat  well,  a  little  lemon  juice  or 
vinegar  may  be  added,  occasionally, 
using  in  all  about  four  tablespoonfuls. 
Noodles. 

Beat  three  eggs  slightly;  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  cold  water  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  then  stir  in  flour  to 
made  a  stiff  dough ;  knead  about  fifteen 


minutes,  or  until  smooth  and  elastic; 
roll  into  a  sheet  as  thin  as  paper;  a 
cloth  placed  under  it  is  of  assistance 
in  rolling.  Cut  the  sheet  into  three 
pieces,  sprinkle  with  flour,  and  roll 
into  tight  rolls.  With  a  sharp  knife 
cut  the  rolls  from  the  ends  into  threads, 
unroll  the  threads,  and  let  them  dry  an 
hour  or  more ;  cook  twenty  minutes  in 
boiling,  salted  water,  drain,  and  add  to 
a  dish  of  soup.  When  the  noodles  are 
to  be  served  as  a  vegetable  they  should 
be  cut  into  ribbons  about  one-fourth 
an  inch  wide.  Cook  as  before,  toss 
in  a  little  butter,  turn  into  the  serving- 
dish,  and  sprinkle  with  fine  bread 
crumbs  browned  in  hot  butter. 


Query  290. —  Miss  M.  B.,  Palmetto, 
Ga. :  "  What  is  tomato  jelly  ?  Are  toma- 
toes a  proper  accompaniment  to  roast 
turkey/  Why  use  cream-of-tartar  in 
angel  cake  /  Why  is  soda  without  acid 
usually  given  in  recipes  for  cookies  I 
What  dishes  fro?n  the  Magazine  would 
be  suitable  to  exhibit  at  a  State  fair  ?  " 
Tomato  felly. 

Let  three-fourths  a  box  of  gelatine 
soak  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Cook 
a  can  of  tomatoes,  half  an  onion,  a 
stalk  of  celery,  a  bay  leaf,  two  cloves, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of 
paprica,  ten  minutes.  Add  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  tarragon  vinegar  and  the 
gelatine ;  stir  until  dissolved,  strain, 
and  turn  into  one  large  mould,  or  sev- 
eral individual  moulds.  Serve  with 
green  vegetables,  or  with  meat  as  a 
salad.  French,  mayonnaise,  or  boiled 
dressing  may  be  used. 

Tomatoes  with  Turkey. 

Tomatoes  in  any  form  may  be  served 
with  roast  turkey. 

Cream-of-tartar  in  Angel  Cake. 

The  cream-of-tartar  usually  given  in 


202 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


recipes  for  angel  cake  is  added  to  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  as  the  acid  has  a 
tendency  to  strengthen  the  walls  of  the 
air-cells  produced  by  beating  and  to 
keep  the  cells  in  shape  until  the  heat 
of  the  oven  fixes  them,  thus  insuring, 
other  conditions  being  favorable,  a 
light  cake. 

Soda  in  Cookies. 

When  soda  is  used  in  a  recipe  for 
cookies,  is  not  the  acid  present  in  the 
form  of  sour  cream  or  milk  ?  It  is  not 
customary  to  use  soda  without  a  neu- 
tralizing acid. 

Dishes  to  Exhibit  at  State  Fairs. 

It  would  probably  be  wise  to  select 
dishes  which  the  exhibitor  has  found 
she  individually  can  make  with  pro- 
nounced success.  Attention  also  need 
be  given  to  the  ease  with  which  the 
prepared  articles  can  be  packed  for 
transportation. 


Query  291.  —  Subscriber,  Detroit, 
Mich.:  "  How  to  cook  bacon  so  that  it 
will  curl  in  rings,  as  served  in  the  best 
New  York  restaurants  ?  " 

To  Cook  Bacon  in  Curls. 

Have  the  frying-pan  very  hot ;  put  in 
the  slices  of  bacon,  and,  without  turn- 
ing the  same,  with  a  fork  curl  each 
slice  round  and  round  as  desired. 


Query  292. — Mrs.  K.  M.  P.,  Rich- 
mond Hill,    N.    Y.:"  How  avoid  the 
bursting  of  sausage  in  cooking?  " 
How  Cook  Sausage  ? 

Prick  with  a  fork  the  sausage  in  every 
part ;  let  simmer  in  boiling  water  about 
fifteen  minutes  ;  then  drain  and  brown 
in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the  stove. 


Query  293.  —  E.  C.  R.,  Knoxville, 
Tenn. ;  "  Recipes  for  large,  thin,  sweet 
graham  crackers  like  those  sold  i?i  stores  : 


best  recipe  for  old-fashioned  New  Eng- 
land  baked  beans  and  brownbread ;  a?i 
apple  pastry  called  '  Stonington,'  and  a 
New  England  dainty  called  l Salem  Gib- 
raltars.'  " 

Graham  Crackers. 

Beat  one-third  a  cup  of  butter  to  a 
cream ;  add  one  cup  of  sugar  gradu- 
ally ;  then  the  well-beaten  white  of  an 
egg.  Sift  one  teaspoonful  of  cream-of- 
tartar  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 
into  two  cups  of  graham  flour,  and  add 
to  the  mixture  alternately  with  half  a 
cup  of  cold  water  ;  add  flour  to  knead, 
then  roll  thin,  cut  in  squares,  prick  with 
a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Bosto7i  Baked  Beans. 

Let  a  pint  of  pea  beans  soak  in  cold, 
soft  water  over  night ;  wash,  rinse,  and 
parboil,  until  the  beans  can  be  easily 
pierced  with  a  needle ;  change  the  water 
twice  during  the  process,  adding  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda.  Rinse  in  hot 
water ;  put  one  half  the  beans  in  the 
bean  pot,  then  one-fourth  a  pound  of 
salt  pork,  scalded  in  hot  water,  and 
scored  as  to  rind  for  cutting  in  slices ; 
add  the  rest  of  the  beans,  and  over 
them  pour  one  teaspoonful,  each,  of 
mustard  and  salt,  and  one-fourth  a  cup 
of  molasses,  mixed  with  sufficient  hot 
water  to  cover.  Bake  about  eight  hours 
in  a  slow  oven,  keeping  the  beans  cov- 
ered with  water  and  the  lid  on  until 
the  last  hour;  then  remove  the  lid  and 
brown  the  beans. 

Boston  Brownbread. 

Sift  together  one  cup,  each,  of  corn- 
meal,  rye  meal,  and  wheat  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  three  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  soda ;  add  three-fourths  a  cup 
of  molasses  and  one  pint  of  thick,  sour 
milk.  Beat  thoroughly,  and  let  steam 
in  a  buttered  mould,  or  in  pound-size 
baking-powder  boxes. 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


203 


Salem  Gibraltars,  etc. 
The  preceding  recipes  may  not  be 
the  ones  wished  by  our  subscriber,  but 
they  are  the  most  satisfactory  formulas 
with  which  we  are  acquainted.  We 
should  be  glad  to  have  any  of  our  sub- 
scribers who  are  familar  with  the  dishes 
called  "  Stonington  "  and  "  Salem  Gib- 
raltars "  send  recipes  to  us  for  publica- 
tion. 


Query  294. — Mrs.  F.  L.  C,  Sum- 
mit, N.J.  :  "Additional  recipes  for  meats 
or  poultry  en  casserole." 

Pigeons  en  Casserole. 

Clean  and  truss  five  or  six  pigeons  ; 
saute  in  bacon  fat,  with  half  an  onion 
cut  in  rings  ;  arrange  in  the  casserole ; 
add  a  bay  leaf,  and  half  cover  with  hot 
water  or  broth;  cover,  and  bake  until 
nearly  tender ;  then  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and,  just  before  serving, 
skim  off  the  fat,  and  add  one  pint  of 
cooked  peas  (fresh  or  canned)  and  a 
cup  of  cooked  carrots  in  slices,  cubes, 
or  fanciful  figures.  Serve  from  the 
casserole. 

Squabs  en  Casserole. 

Have  six  squabs  drawn,  cleaned, 
and  trussed ;  saute  in  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  hot  butter  without  browning  ; 
then  half  cover  with  broth  ;  add  a  sprig 
of  parsley  and  a  bay  leaf,  and  let  cook 
until  nearly  tender ;  then  add  eighteen 
small  button  onions  parboiled,  two 
dozen  potato  balls  cut  with  French 
scoop,  and  two  dozen  half-inch  cubes 
of  bacon  fried  in  butter.  When  ready 
to  serve,  remove  the  parsley,  and  stir 
in  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beaten  and 
diluted  with  half  a  cup  of  cream ;  add 
also  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  bits. 
Do  not  allow  the  sauce  to  boil  after  the 
eggs  are  added.  Serve  from  the  cas- 
serole. Chickens  (jointed)  or  birds  may 
be  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 


Query  295.  —  .]/^.  IV.  C.  B..-  "A 
recipe  for  hashed  brown  potatoes  in  which 
oil  is  used.'''' 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes. 

To  six  cold  boiled  potatoes,  chopped 
fine,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
a  dash  of  pepper.  Let  heat  in  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  hot  oil,  then  press  into 
one  side  of  a  frying-pan,  and,  when 
well  browned,  drain  off  the  oil  andi;urn 
on  to  a  hot  platter. 


Query  296.  —  Subscriber.  Washing- 
ton, D.  C. :  "  Recipe  for  a  hot  tamala." 
Hot  Tama  las. 

Scald  a  quart  of  white  cornmeal, 
using  water  to  make  it  quite  moist. 
Tear  several  corn  husks  into  narrow 
ribbons.  Put  a  layer  of  the  meal  into 
other  husks,  forming  a  roll  about  six 
inches  long  in  the  centre  of  the  husk. 
To  a  pint  of  cooked  chicken,  chopped 
fine,  add  a  Spanish  pepper,  chopped 
fine,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  put  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  this  mixture  into  the 
centre  of  the  cornmeal;  roll  the  corn- 
meal  over  the  mixture,  and  the  husks 
over  the  cornmeal.  Fold  the  ends  of 
the  husks,  and  tie  them  with  the  rib- 
bons. Put  the  bones  taken  from  the 
chicken  into  the  bottom  of  a  kettle ; 
add  a  sliced  onion,  three  or  four  cloves, 
two  bay  leaves,  salt  and  pepper,  cover 
with  cold  water,  and  let  heat  gradually 
to  the  boiling-point ;  lay  the  tamalas 
upon  the  bones  above  water  and  let 
cook  about  two  hours.  If  this  is  not 
the  dish  desired,  will  our  correspondent 
kindly  advise  us  ? 


Query  297. —  M.  P.,  Pockford,  III.: 
"  How  cure  dried  beef,  hams  and  bacon  I 
Also   recipe  for  piwipkin  pies  '  like  our 
grandmothers  used  to  make.'  " 
To  Cure  Dried  Beef. 

For  fifty  pounds  of  beef  take  four 


204 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


pounds  of  salt,  two  pounds  and  a  half 
of  sugar  or  two  pints  and  a  half  of 
New  Orleans  molasses,  one  ounce,  each, 
of  bicarbonate  of  soda  and  saltpetre, 
and  two  gallons  of  water  or  enough  to 
cover  the  meat.  Cover  the  bottom  of 
an  oak  barrel  or  firkin  with  salt,  mix 
part  of  the  salt  and  sugar  together,  with 
this  rub  each  piece,  and  place  it  in  the 
barrel.  When  the  meat  is  all  in,  put 
the  remainder  of  the  salt  and  sugar  in 
the  water.  Dissolve  the  soda  and  salt- 
petre in  hot  water,  add  it  to  the  brine, 
and  pour  over  the  meat ;  place  a  board 
bearing  a  weight  on  top  of  the  meat, 
let  stand  three  weeks,  then  drain  from 
the  brine  and  let  stand  over  night  in 
cold  water  ;  dry  with  a  cloth  and  smoke 
for  a  few  days,  if  desired.  Let  dry  in 
a  warm  place  three  or  four  weeks, 
turning  often. 

To  Cure  Hams  and  Bacon. 
Add  two  pounds  of  salt  to  the  in- 
gredients given  above,  mix  the  salt  and 
sugar,  and  with  this  rub  thoroughly 
each  ham  or  strip  of  bacon  and  put 
skin  side  down  in  a  barrel  containing 
a  layer  of  salt.  Make  a  pickle  as  above 
with  the  remainder  of  the  ingredients, 
pour  over  the  meat,  and  weight  as 
above  ;  let  remain  from  four  to  eight 
weeks,  according  to  size;  drain  for 
two  days,  then  smoke  four  weeks  with 
corncobs  or  green  hickory  or  maple 
wood.  Hang  the  hams  with  hock 
downwards,  as  the  skin  will  retain  the 
juices  of  the  meat. 

O/d- Fashioned  Pumpkin  Pies. 
Mix  one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  and  a 
half  of  dry,  steamed  and  sifted  pump- 
kin, half  a  cup  of  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  molasses,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  ginger,  one  egg  slightly  beaten, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bake  in  a  pie 
tin  lined  with  pastry. 


Query  298. —  F.  L.,  South  Chatham, 
N.  H. :  "  Recipe  for  fudge." 
Fudge. 

Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  in 
a  granite  saucepan,  add  two  cups  of 
sugar  and  two-thirds  a  cup  of  milk ; 
heat  to  the  boiling-point,  then  add  two 
squares  of  chocolate  and  stir  constantly 
until  the  chocolate  is  melted.  Boil 
thirteen  minutes,  remove  from  the  fire, 
add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract, 
and  beat  until  the  mixture  is  creamy 
and  sugars  slightly  around  the  edge  of 
the  saucepan.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
pan,  cool  slightly,  then  mark  in  squares. 

Query  299. — Mrs.  M.  G.:  "Recipe 
for  German  pancakes." 

Berlin  Pancakes. 

Melt  one  cup  of  butter  in  a  cup  of 
scalded  milk,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  half  a  cup  of  sugar  ;  when  luke- 
warm add  two  cakes  of  compressed 
yeast,  one  whole  egg,  and  the  yolks  of 
five  eggs,  with  sufficient  flour  to  form 
a  dough  of  a  consistency  to  knead. 
Knead  until  elastic,  then  set  aside  in  a 
temperature  of  about  700  Fahr.  until 
doubled  in  bulk.  Roll  into  a  sheet 
half  an  inch  thick  and  put  upon  half  of 
it,  in  spots  two  inches  apart,  a  tea- 
spoonful of  cherries,  currants,  jelly,  or 
marmalade ;  fold  the  second  half  of  the 
dough  over  the  first  and  cut  out  in 
circles,  with  the  sweetmeats  in  the  cen- 
tres of  the  cakes.  When  again  light 
fry  in  hot  fat,  as  a  doughnut,  to  a 
golden  brown.  Roll  in  sugar  and  cin- 
namon while  hot. 


Query  300.  —  Mrs.  S.  P.  C,  Da/las, 
Tex.:  "  Recipe  for  fruit  pudding  and 
sauce,  as  served  at  The  Thorndike" 
Fruit  Pudding. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  the  pro- 
prietors of  The  Thorndike,  we  print 
the  desired  recipe  :  — 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


205 


2  pounds  bread  crumbs. 

•£  pound  currants. 

\  pound  raisins. 

\  pound  citron. 

2  tablespoonfuls  allspice. 

2  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon. 

2  teaspoonfuls  cloves. 

2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

2  teaspoonfuls  bread  soda 

2  teaspoonfuls  cream-of-tartar. 

3  eggs- 
Butter  size  of  an  egg. 
1  pint  molasses. 

First  soak  bread  in  sweet  milk,  add 
spice  and  fruit  in  layers  ;  add  molasses, 
break  eggs  and  add ;  mix  soda  with 
milk  (one-fourth  a  cup)  and  add ;  melt 
the  butter  and  add  ;  sift  flour  in,  and 
then  mix  all  together,  adding  one-half 
a  cup  of  brandy  and  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  lemon  flavoring.  Steam  two  hours. 
Serve  with  a  brandy  sauce.  This  rec- 
ipe makes  a  sufficient  quantity  for 
twenty-four  people. 


Query    301.  —  Mrs.  C.  M.,  Akron, 
O. :  "  Recipe  for  chocolate  brittle" 
Chocolate  Brittle. 

Boil  one  pound  and  a  half  of  brown 
sugar,  one  cup  of  New  Orleans  molas- 
ses, one  cup  of  water,  and  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  cream-of-tartar  to  the 
hard-crack  stage.  Test  by  dipping  a 
skewer  in  water,  then  in  the  boiling 
candy,  and  again  in  the  water.  After 
ten  seconds  push  the  candy  off  the 
skewer,  between  the  thumb  and  fore- 
finger, form  into  a  ball,  let  stand  in 
the  water  a  few  seconds,  then  press 
between  the  teeth,  and,  if  it  leaves  them 
without  clinging,  add  half  a  cup  of 
butter,  and  let  it  boil  in,  remove  from 
the  fire,  and  stir  in  two  level  teaspoon- 


fuls of  bicarbonate  of  soda,  dissolved 
in  a  little  water.  As  soon  as  it  begins 
to  foam,  pour  it  out  upon  an  oiled 
marble  slab,  or  large  platters,  and 
spread  very  thin.  When  cool  pour 
melted  chocolate  or  a  thin  fondant 
over  the  top,  and  when  the  chocolate 
is  firm  cut  or  break  it  into  rectangular 
pieces. 


Query  302. — E.  R.  M.,  Albany, 
N.  Y.:  "  Recipe  for  clam  broth.  Al- 
ways have  the  same  difficulty,  viz.,  the 
milk  curdles." 

We  would  suggest  that  in  cases  like 
this  our  correspondent  send  us  the 
recipe  with  which  she  is  unsuccessful  ; 
then  we  can  reply  more  intelligently. 
Milk  is  not  usually  added  to  clam 
broth,  but  is  used  in  the  form  of  a  white 
sauce  in  clam  soup. 

Clam  BrotJi. 

Put  half  a  peck  of  well-scrubbed 
clams  in  a  saucepan  with  three  cups 
of  cold  water,  cover  tightly,  and  steam 
until  the  shells  are  well  opened.  Strain 
the  liquor  through  a  cheese-cloth,  re- 
heat and  serve. 

Clam  Soup. 

Wash  one  quart  of  clams,  taken  from 
the  shells,  with  a  cup  of  cold  water  ; 
save  the  liquor,  and  add  to  it  the  hard 
part  of  the  clams,  chopped  fine;  strain, 
and  pour  gradually  over  one-third  a 
cup,  each,  of  butter  and  flour  cooked 
together.  Scald  one  quart  of  milk 
with  a  slice  of  onion,  remove  the  onion, 
and  add  the  milk,  with  the  soft  part  of 
the  clams,  to  the  thickened  broth ;  cook 
three  or  four  minutes,  and  season  to 
taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 

— /.  M.  H. 


&■ 


^m^w^if^w^ 


News  and  Notes, 


Adih'ess  communications  for  this  department  to  Janet  AT.  Hill,  Editor 
of  the  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine,  372  Boylston  Street, 
Boston,    Mass. 


Miss  Cornelia  T.  Peck,  Class  of  '97, 
who  formerly  taught  cooking  in  the 
public  schools  of  Providence,  R.  I., 
has  accepted  a  position  as  teacher  of 
domestic  science  in  the  new  manual- 
training  school  at  Haverhill,  Mass. 
The  cooking  -  classes  in  the  public 
schools  are  under  her  charge. 


Mrs.  E.  H.  Briggs,  Class  of  '94, 
conducts  an  evening  class  at  the  Par- 
ker Memorial  and  classes  at  the  North 
Bennett  Street  School.  She  has  charge 
also  of  the  cooking-classes  in  the  pub- 
lic schools  of  Winchester.  The  work 
done  at  North  Bennett  Street  and  at 
the  Parker  Memorial  must  be  of  in- 
estimable value  to  all  those  who  are 
fortunate  enough  to  attend.  These 
classes  are  largely  filled  with  young 
women,  who  are  employed  during  the 
day  in  stores  or  as  housekeepers,  proof- 
readers, etc.,  etc.  The  classes  are  for 
practice  work ;  the  pupils  joining  the 
classes  at  North  Bennett  Street  pay 
ten  cents  a  lesson  to  cover  the  cost  of 
materials,  and  the  association  is  re- 
sponsible for  all  expenses  beyond  this 
amount.  The  classes  at  the  Parker 
Memorial  are  conducted  on  a  slightly 
different  basis.  A  membership  fee  of 
Si. 00  a  year  entitles  a  young  woman 
to  all  the  lessons  conducted  by  the 
association  for  young  women.  There 
are  also  classes  in  various  subjects  for 


boys  and  girls  and  for  young  men. 
To  the  classes  of  young  women  about 
twenty  lessons  in  family  cooking  are 
given.  Many  points  in  marketing  and 
other  topics  of  household  science  are 
taken  up  incidentally. 


Mrs.  Elizabeth  O.  Hiller,  Class  of 
'98,  principal  of  Chicago  Domestic- 
Science  Training-  School,  reports  ac- 
ceptance of  a  governmental  position  at 
the  Paris  Exposition.  She  also  reports 
that  great  interest  in  domestic  science 
is  manifested  among  the  women  of 
Chicago.  In  her  school  she  has  made 
extensive  improvements  in  kitchen  and 
dining-room. 

HOW    BRAIN    WORKERS    SHOULD    EAT. 

It  is  all  right,  says  a  writer  in  the 
Sanitary  Record,  for  the  man  who 
labors  all  day  in  the  open  air  to  eat 
freely  ;  but  the  man  of  sedentary  hab- 
its, the  brain-worker,  must  adapt  his 
way  of  living  to  his  needs.  He  must 
be  well  nourished,  for  the  brain  is 
incapable  of  good  work  unless  well 
supplied  with  pure  blood ;  but  such  a 
man  cannot  possibly  furnish  vital  force 
to  digest  three  large  meals  daily.  If 
he  tries  it,  nature  will  protest  at  every 
step.  The  chemical  changes  of  diges- 
tion will  be  imperfectly  performed. 
The  stomach  will  neither  secrete  freely 
nor  churn  the  food  with  cheerful   alac- 


n. 

BAKING 
POWDER 


Ctupny 

BOSTON, MASS. U.S.A. 


BOSTON,    MASS. 
AFTER  MANY  YEARS'  EXPERIENCE,! 
AM  CONVINCED  THAT  A  PURE  CREAM  OF  , 
TARTAR    BAKING  POWDER  IS  THE  BEST, 
QUICK    LEAVENING    AGENT,    AND    IS 
WHOLESOME    FOOD   ADJUNCT. 

I   GUARANTEE  THAT  THIS    POWDER, 
'PREPARED    AFTER    MY    FORMULA,    CON- 
TAINS   ONLY    THE     HIGHEST    POSSIBLE 
GRADE  OF   CREAM  OF  TARTAR   AND    Bl 
' CARBONATE  OF  SODA,  WITH  THE  SMALL- 
EST    PERCENTAGE     OF    CORN     STARCH 
/•NECESSARY  FOR  ITS  PERFECT  KEEPING. 

AS  LONG  AS  MY  SIGNATURE. APPEARS 
ON  THESE  LABELS,  HOUSEKEEPERS  MAY  t 
BE  SURE  THAT  THIS  FORMULA  WILL  BE 
FOLLOWED    IN   THE    MANUFACTURE    OF 
THIS    BAKING  POWDER. 


^H^curAc- 


AUTHOR  O^THg/*'. BOSTON  COOK  BOOK" 
AND  MEMBfROFMRS  LINCOLN'S  BAKING 
POWDER  COMPANY. 


None  genuine 


lary  J.Lincoln's  signature 


Send  2c.  stamp  for  Mrs.  Lincoln's  NEW  COOK  BOOK  of  Seasonable  Dishes  for  Every 

Month,  to 

MRS.  LINCOLN'S  BAKING  POWDER  CO., 

21    COMMERCE  STREET,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


*  UP  THE  CHIMNEY  f 

IS  'WHERE  MOST  OF  THE  HEAT  GOES  IN  MOST  RANGES. 
THIS  WASTE  OF  FUEL  AND  COOKING  POWER  IS  PRE- 
VENTED   IN    THE    . 

HOME  CRAWFORD 

RANGE.  Inventive  genius  has  supplied  a  remedy  —  a  patented 
"  SINGLE  DAMPER,"  one  movement  of  which  simultane- 
ously regulates  fire  and  oven.  Simply  slide  the  knob  to  "Kindle," 
"  Bake,"  or  "  Check,"  as  your  needs  may  require. 

The  Two=Damper  Ranges  are  Deficient. 

Ask  your  dealer  about  it  —  and  about  the  oven  (most  capacious  of  any,  five  heights  for  rack),  the  large  self  V^ 
cleaning  fire-box,  the  superior  grates  (choice  of  triple,  dock-ash  or  plain),  the  extra  large  ash-pan,  the  RELIABLE  A± 
oven  thermometer. 

EASIEST    MANAGED     RANGE    AND     BEST    EVER     3IADE. 

Send  for  Illustrated  Circular. 


WALKER  &  PRATT  MFC.  CO., 


31  -  35    UNION    ST.,   BOSTON. 


Proprietors  Finest  Stove  Foundry  in  the  world. 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


rity;  the  pyloric  orifice  contracts  and 
allows  such  chyme  to  pass  with  grudg- 
ing reluctance;  the  intestinal  lacteals 
are  ashamed  to  absorb  such  miserable 
pabulum,  which  chokes,  irritates,  and 
congests  them,  so  the  large  meal  re- 
mains in  the  digestive  organs  to  fer- 
ment, putrefy,  and  steep  the  individual 
in  foul  gases  and  depraved  secretions. 
But  the  system  can  furnish  enough 
vital  force  to  convert  a  small  meal  into 
pabulum  of  high  standard,  which  will 
be  absorbed  without  difficulty.  Three 
such  small  meals  are  not  enough  to 
keep  the  individual  properly  nourished, 
however;  four  to  six  will  be  required. 
Each  should  consist  of  but  one  article, 
or,  at  most,  two,  articles  of  food,  the 
diet  to  be  varied  by  changes  at  meals. 
The  portion  of  food  served  must  be 
small ;  the  patient  must  stop  as  soon 
as  the  appetite  is  satisfied,  and  gaseous 
distention  is  proof  positive  that  the 
meals  are  still  too  large  or  too  close 
together. 


the  broom  straws  in  a  bag  held  in  place 
by  the  initial  wrap  of  steel  wire  and 
transverse    rows    of    stitching. 


AN      ANTISEPTIC       BROOM      FOR      HOUSE- 
HOLD   USE. 

A  broom  which  will  contain  in  itself 
the  means  for  destroying  moths  and 
disease  germs  is  evidently  an  article 
which  will  be  of  no  little  value  in  the 
household.  Such  a  broom  has  been 
invented  at  Savannah,  Ga.  The  anti- 
septic substances  are  contained  within 


A    NEW    USE    FOR    BALLOONS. 

In  Paris  it  has  been  found  practi- 
cable to  dry  clothes  by  means  of  sta- 
tionary balloons.  The  large  laundries 
that  have  them  charge  a  little  higher 
price  for  clothes  thus  dried  above  the 
soot  of  the  city,  in  pure  air. 

The  clothes  are  suspended  in  racks 
hung  from  the  balloons. 

If  our  cities  become  much  more 
crowded  with  elevated  roads,  roof  gar- 
dens, etc.,  as  the  only  means  of  getting 
above  the  crowd,  ere  long  families  in 
apartments  will  be  having  a  balloon 
nursery  instead  of  sending  their  infants 
out  with  nurses  to  the  squares  or  parks 
in  carriages. 

The  household  will  not  be  hushed 
during  naptime  ;  baby  will  be  sky-high. 
Instead  of  watching  from  the  doorway 
to  see  if  he  is  awakening,  they  take  a 
telescope  and  see. 


It  does  not  matter,  Dr.  Yorke-Davies 
declares,  whether  it  is  excess  in  eating 
or  excess  in  drinking;  but,  undoubt- 
edly, excess  of  any  kind  means  the 
wearing  out  of  the  different  organs. 

In  the  case  of  over-eating,  the  pa- 
tient becomes  corpulent,  and  by  thus 
overloading  the  heart  with  fat,  weakens 
its  structure,  and  eventually  dies  from 
the  oppression  that  such  a  condition 
entails,  or  from  some  congestive  dis- 
ease due  to  want  of  tone,  a  state  always 
present  in  the  obese. 


.4*^.    ^  «MILU    '        . _  f. ML  BO ROEtG  ■  !■»!      ««Bh.        A       U     ■    MM 


EAGLE 


A PERFECT 
INFANT 
F"OOD. 


^m^  BRAND 

I 


m    SEND  FOR 

BABIES" 

A  BOOK  FOR 
MOTHERS. 


BORDEN'S  CONDENSED    MILK   CO.    NEW  YORK 


i'iilHiiill&ii&niiH&jilii^iilii; 


;  5.   *&* 


A  Perfect  Breakfast 

Breaftfast  has  to  supply  the 
urain  and  muscle  fur  the  hus- 
band's daily  battle,  It  must  con- 
tain brain  and  nerve  food.  It 
must  be  a  tissue  builder*  It  must 
be  easy  to  cook  and  easy  to  di- 
gest To  be  just  right  it  must 
include  QuaRer  Oats, 

THE  EASY  fOOD 

Quaker  Oats 

THE  WORLD'S  BREAKFAST 

accept  no  SHBTmrre 


tio*.         w-         w:         wr         wyr         i-sr      ,  i«r 

ij  «}f  'ft'  '}('  W  1e  W  li' 


ENTERPRISE.. 


t 
I 

Send  for  Descriptive  Catalogue— Free  X 

The  Enterprize  Mfg.  Co.  of  Pa.  \ 

PHILADELPHIA,  PA.,  U.  S.  A.  + 

«♦»♦♦♦♦♦*♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦»♦♦♦♦«».♦»».».». +,4 


Extracts  the  Juice  and  ejects  the  Pulp 
in  One  Operation 

The  Best  Press  in  the  Market 

All  the  Leading:  Hardware  and  House-Furnish- 
ing Stores  sell  them 

-Free 


Exhaustion 

HORSFORD'S  ACID  PHOSPHATE. 

Taken  after  exhaustive  illness  it 
acts  as  a  wholesome  tonic,  giving 
renewed  strength  and  vigor  to  the 
entire  system. 

Sold  by  Druggists. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE. 


BOOK  REVIEWS. 


TENNYSON'S    POETICAL    WORKS. 

Household  edition.  Illustrated. 
Crown  Svo.  $1.50.  Boston  :  Hough- 
ton, Mifflin  &  Co. 

This  is  an  entirely  new  edition,  and 
embraces  the  complete  poetical  and 
dramatic  works  of  Alfred,  Lord  Tenny- 
son. It  is  not  a  cheap,  unwieldy  book 
printed  in  fine  type,  but  a  handsome 
and  agreeable  volume.  The  text  is 
that  of  the  latest  Cambridge  edition  ; 
the  plates  are  new,  and  the  type  is 
large  and  clear.  The  book  contains 
one  hundred  and  twenty-seven  illustra- 
tions. These  illustrations  have  been 
selected  from  the  best  designs  made 
to  accompany  the  poems  by  English, 
American,  and  French  artists ;  they 
have  been  reenforced,  also,  by  por- 
traits and  representations  of  historic 
buildings.  The  result  is,  perhaps,  the 
most  thoroughly  illustrated  and  best 
Tennyson  thus  far  offered  to  the  pub- 
lic. Certainly  the  volume  is  admirably 
suitable  in  every  sense  to  familiarize 
the  works  of  the  century's  greatest  poet 
in  the  households  of  the  land. 


TIVERTON  TALES.  By  Alice  Brown. 
Cloth.  12mo.  $1.50.  Boston: 
Houghton,  Mifflin  &  Co. 

Here  are  twelve  short  stories  of 
place  and  character.  The  author  has 
made  a  careful  study  of  the  traditions, 
history,  and  peculiarities  of  a  quaint 
New  England  town,  and  the  result  ap- 
pears in  rather  original  and  interesting 
character  sketches ;  for  certainly  her 
portraitures  of  men  and  women  are 
deftly  drawn,  and  her  stories  are  very 
agreeably  told.  The  delineations  of 
ways  of  living  and  traits  of  character 
are  not  those  of  modern  city  life.  The 
atmosphere  of  a  place  where  the  cus- 
toms of  primitive  life  still  linger  per- 
vades the  narratives.  Still,  the  stories 
are  not  unnatural,  though  they  threaten 
at  times  to  turn  out  somewhat  tragical. 
Humorous  touches,   however,   and  pa- 

Whenyou  write  Advertisers, please  mention 


thetic  incidents  are  the  leading  charac- 
teristics of  the  author's  style,  whose 
writings  are  not  only  interesting  but 
thoughtful,  and  singularly  free  from 
every  trace  of  that  false  sentiment  and 
nauseating  love-making  so  prevalent  in 
the  stories  of  the  day. 

Asked  to  point  out  the  best  in  this 
list  of  tales,  where  all  are  good,  we 
should  say  that  we  have  taken  most 
pleasure  in  "A  March  Wind,"  "  Horn- 
o'-the-Moon,"  "A Stolen  Festival,"  and 
"  The  Flatiron  Lot."  All  the  tales  are 
clean  and  wholesome,  and  they  par- 
take of  that  peculiar  spirit  of  a  bygone 
period  in  our  history  whose  charm  only 
increases  as  the  festive  seasons  of 
Thanksgiving  and  Christmas  greeting 
come  and  go. 

SALADS,  SANDWICHES  AND  CHAF- 
ING-DISH   DAINTIES.      By  Janet 
MeKenzie  Hill.     Cloth.     Illustrated. 
258  pp.      $1.50.      Boston  :     Little, 
Brown  &  Company. 
Ours   is   a   day  of    effort  in   special 
lines,  and    the    book    before    us    is   in 
keeping   with    this    tendency    of    the 
times.      In    its    pages    three    subjects, 
designated  in  the  title,  have  been  fully, 
if  not  exhaustively,  treated.     Together 
they  make  up  a  cook-book,  or  rather  a 
book  on  the  artistic   preparation   and 
serving  'of  food,  of    no  inconsiderable 

Platts  Chlorides. 

The  Household  Disinfectant 
instantly  destroys  foul  odors  and 
disease-breeding  matter,  preventing 
much  sickness. 

An  odorless,  colorless  liquid  ;  powerful,  safe 
and    economical.      Sold  in  quart  bottles  only, 
by  Druggists  and  high-class  Grocers.    Prepared 
only  by  Henry  B.  Piatt,  Piatt  St.,  New  York. 
The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


gr*  n  A\AVW  D0  NOT  SERVE  IT  ON 
OICAV  ■  THE  DINNER-TABLE 
BEFORE  YOU  HAVE  ADDED  ATABLE-SPOONFULOF 

LEA  &  PERRINS 


The 


i*\**' 


0r/9/na/  and  Genuine  Worcester 
LEA  &  PERRINS' IS  THE  FAVORITE  TABLE  SAUCE 
THROUGHOUT  THE  WORLD.-SEE  SIGNATURE  ON  WRAPPER. 

*JOHN  DUNCAHS  SO/VS,  AG'TS.,  NEW  YORK. 


UTCHER'S    BOSTON    POLISH 

MANUFACTURED    BY   THE 

BUTGHER  POLISH  CO., 


R 

^^^^m        is  the  best  finish  for 

FLOORS, 
Interior  Woodwork  and  Furniture. 

Circulars  Sent  on  Application. 
For   Sale   by  Dealers  in  Painters'  Supplies. 


356  Atlantic  Ave,,  Boston,  Mass. 


dealers    for  Special   Diabetic  Food,  for  Diabetes, 
them  —  see  that       '  _.  „      _  *       ._ 


Ask 


packages     haveCIUtell  Flour,  for  Dyspepsia  and  Constipation. 

lineeSse     pLmphlet  Barley  Crystals,  for  Kidney  Troubles. 

and    our    sample ■ — 

otter  mailed  free.  FARWELL  &  11H1NES,  Watertown,  N.  I.,  U.S.A. 


Seal  Your  Jelly 

jam  and  preserves  by  pouring  a 
little  melted  paraffine  on  top  of 
each   glass   and  jar.     It   will 
harden  immediately  and  form 
a  covering  that  will  keep  the 
preserves  sweet,  clean  and  as 
soft  and  fresh  at  the  top  as  at 
the   bottom.    Perfectly  pure, 
tasteless,  odorless,  airproof, 
waterproof,  acidproof,  and 
a  protection  against  ver- 
min and  mould. 

Paraffine  is  sold  in  pound  pack. 

ages   for    household  uses  at 

drug,  grocery  and  genei 

stores.     Made  by 

Standard  Oil  Co. 


^V^V\\V\\XN\VN\>\\X\\V\\V\\X\\^^^ 

'EXAMINE  YOUR  STOVE  LINING; 

and  see  if  there  are  any  holes  or  large  ^ 
ciacks  in  it.  If  so  uon't  "let  it  go,"  or  be-  v, 
fore  you  know  it  the  fierce  heat  will  gain  ^ 
direct  access  to  the  oven,  and  the  oven  J 
plates  will  be  warped  and  the  stove  ruined,  v. 
A  few  cents'  'worth  of  / 

CHAMPION      I 
STOVE  CLAY    f 

used  now  will  save  the  stove,  v, 
This  is  a  combination  of  pow-  / 
dered  fire-clays  and  plumbago.  ^ 
Mix  with  water  and  use  like  v, 
mortar  or  cement.  Any  one  A 
can  u*e  ft.  Keep  a  box  on  ^ 
hand.  It's  cheap.  Buy  it  of  stove  v, 
dealer.    Write  us  if  he  hasn't  it.    / 

Don't  neglect  the  stove  ^ 
lining;  the  life  of  the  stove  depends  upon  it.  ^ 
BRIDGEPORT  CRUCIBLE  CO.,  Bridgeport.  Ct.      ^ 


THE     OLD     RELIABLE. 


Dixon's  "Ca/rb0„rttof 
Stove  Polish. 

Never  turns  Red  or  Rusts  your  Stoves. 

JOS.  DIXON  CRUCIBLE  CO,,  JERSEY  CITY,  N.  J, 


When  you  write  Advertisers, please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


ctfs/ 


v  v  yvv>AA^v  vv^1"*^ 


4  1  CENT  A  CUP. 


A  IOC.  PACKAGE  OF 

BURNHAM'S 

CREAM 
CUSTARD 


Will  make   TEN  CUPS  of 

CUSTARD 

or  TWO  QUARTS  of 

SUPERIOR  ICE  CREAM. 

ONLY  MILK   TO   BE  ADDED. 

No  Cooking. 

Prepared  in  a  Minute. 


If  not  yet  in  the  stock  of  your  grocer, 
send  us  his  name  and  10  cents,  and  we  will 
send  you  a  package.  Every  package  con- 
tains instructions  how  to  obtain,  FREE, 
our  beautiful  Souvenir  of  the  Spanish- 
American  War,  and  recipes  for  different 
custards. 


E.  S.  BURNHAM  CO. 

53  Gansevoort  St.   N.  Y. 


scope  and  value.  This  may  appear 
more  manifest  by  noting  a  brief  sum- 
mary of  the  topics  included  in  the 
table  of  contents. 

Under  "Salads,"  a  pleasant,  well- 
written  introduction  is  followed  by  full 
and  accurate  description  and  method 
of  preparation  of  How  to  make  aromatic 
vinegars,  to  keep  vegetables  and  to 
prepare  garnishes,  Salad  dressings, 
Vegetable  salads,  Fish  salads,  Various 
compound  salads,  Fruit  and  nut  salads, 
How  to  prepare  and  use  aspic  jelly, 
and  Cheese  dishes  served  with  salads. 
Part  two  gives  an  introduction  with 
varied  and  practical  instructions  or 
directions  in  the  preparation  of  Savory 
sandwiches,  Sweet  sandwiches.  Bread 
and  chou  paste,  and  the  proper  Bever- 
ages to  serve  with  sandwiches. 

"Chafing-dish  Dainties"  contains 
an  interesting  historical  introduction 
and  description  in  detail  of  the  ways  of 
serving  from  this  popular  utensil:  Oys- 
ter dishes,  Lobster  and  other  sea  fish, 
Cheese  confections,  Eggs,  Dishes  for 
the  vegetarian,  Rechauffe  and  olla-pod- 
rida. 

The  author's  special  aim  has  been  to 
present  the  topics  in  such  a  simple  and 
pleasing  form  that  she  who  attempts 
the  composition  of  the  dishes  described 
will  not  be  satisfied,  until  she  has  gained 
a  deeper  insight  into  the  conditions 
necessary  for  success  in  the  pursuit 
of  these  as  well  as  other  fascinating 
branches  of  the  culinary  art.  Care, 
also,  has  been  exercised  to  meet  the 
actual  needs  of  those  who  wish  to  cul- 
tivate   a    taste    for    light,    wholesome 


W     b 
I      E 

ft        ei 


Light  hearts 
becauseittak.es 
away  worry. 
Biscuits,  cakes, 
etc.. are  always 
light  and  nice 
when  you  use 


CONGRESS 

Yeast  Powder. 

It  is  the  purest, 
strongest  and  best 
baking  powder 
made.  Ask  grocer 
for  it. 

D.  &  L.  SLADE  CO., 
Boston,  Mass 


Amvww^^^w^^w 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Tk:  Hub 

Line  of 
Ranges 

Speak  for  Themselves 
in  Thousands  of  Homes. 

The  Hub  Ranges  are  used  in  the 
New  York,  Boston,  Providence, 
Hartford,  Worcester,  and  many 
other  Cooking-Schools. 

iS    STRONGER    ENDORSEMENT    POSSIBLE? 

Smith  &  Anthony  CO..  makers  hub  ranges  and  heaters, 

48-S4  UNION  STREET,  BOSTON. 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


WHEATENA 


is  made  from  the  Peeled 
Wheat,  and  retains  all  the 
nutriment  of  the  grain.  It 
is  a  complete  food  and  will 
support  human  life  per- 
fectly, replacing  all  waste 
of  body  and  brain. 

Quick  Cooking 

Seems  to  be  a  desidera- 
tum most  sought  after  in 
breakfast  foods,  and  Wheat- 
end  is  completely  cooked 
in  two  minutes. 


BRO-MAN-GEL-ON 

DESSERT  JELLY. 

SIMPLY   DELICIOUS 


1    paek-gp   Bromancielon- 

1  pint  boiling   water — 

2  minutes'  time — 
Nothing   more. 


riavoivi 


x/1  <m 


lemon,  Orang-e,  Strawberry, 
H.i»piMnv  Cherry. 


Free  Sample.— Send  3c.  in  stamps  for  postage, 
and  your  grocer's  name,  and  we  will  mail  you  free 
a  sample  of  Bromangelon  of  any  of  the  five  flavors. 


dishes,  or   to   cater  to  the  vagaries  of 
the  most  capricious  appetites. 

The  book  contains  thirty-seven  half- 
tones, produced  from  photographs  of 
actual  dishes.  These  illustrations  were 
prepared  expressly  for  this  book,  and 
the  dishes  and  the  photographs  of  the 
same  were  executed  under  the  author's 
own  hand  and  eye. 


STERN     Ste     SAALBERG, 

311  W.  40th  STREET,  NEW    YORK. 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


The  Medical  Record,  published  at  5 1 
Fifth  Avenue,  New  York,  has  for  years 
been  the  leading  organ  of  the  medical 
profession  in  America,  and  has  gained 
a  world-wide  reputation  as  the  recog- 
nized medium  of  intercommunication 
between  the  profession  throughout  the 
world.  It  is  intended  to  be  in  every 
respect  a  medical  newspaper,  and  con- 
tains among  its  original  articles  many 
of  the  most  important  contributions  to 
medical  literature.  The  busy  practi- 
tioner will  find  among  the  therapeutic 
hints  and  in  the  clinical  department  a 
large  fund  of  practical  matter,  care- 
fully condensed  and  exceedingly  inter- 
esting. Medical  news  from  all  parts 
of  the  world  is  supplied  through  special 
correspondents,  by  mail  and  telegraph; 
new  publications  and  inventious  are 
reviewed  and  described;  in  the  edito- 
rial department,  matters  of  current  in- 
terest are  discussed  in  a  manner  which 
has  established  The  Medical  Record  in 
the  estimation  of  the  whole  profession 
as  a  thoroughly  independent  journal 
and  the  most  influential  publication  of 
its  class. 

The  first  course  of  instruction  for  house- 
hold employers  at  the  School  of  Housekeep- 
ing, St.  Botolph  Street,  Boston,  will  conclude 
the  last  of  December,  and  a  second  term  will 
begin  January  1st.  The  pupils,  beside  their 
regular  training,  are  cognizant  of  most  inter- 
esting pracucal  experiments,  which  the  in- 
structors inaugurate  and  carry  on  as  to  com- 
parative methods  of  spending  the  money  for 
household  expenses,  with  a  view  to  economy 
of  effort  and  money  proportioned  to  desirable 
results.  The  more  that  is  undertaken  in  this 
line  the  more  informing  and  worth  while  domes- 
tic work  becomes  to  the  intelligent  worker. 


Boys' 
"  Knockabout 

School  and  Play  Suit 

Sixes,  7  to    16    Years. 

$5.00. 

Manufactured  only  by 

A.  SHUMAN  &  GO. 


?* 


TV"  7E  produce  this  suit  from  cloth  made 
**  especially  for  us,  which  we  subject 
to  the  most  rigorous  examination  and  test 
for  purity  of  fibre,  strength  of  double  and 
twisted  weave  and  permanency  of  its  non- 
fading  colors,  before  we  allow  a  yard  to  be 
cut 

Substantially  trimmed  with  tough  and 
*urabk  linings,  threads,  etc.;  seams  double 
stitched  and  stayed  with  tape,  rendering 
them  impossible  to  rip.  Trousers  fitted  with 
our  patent  u  Cavalry "  or  double  knee  and 
seat. 

Extra  pieces  and  buttons  accompany  each 
suit. 

rpHIS  suit  is  made  exclusively  by  us,  and  the 
name  "  Knockabout,"  as  applied  to  Boys 
Clothing,  was  originated  and  copyrighted  by  A. 
Shuman  &  Co.  Therefore  all  manufacturers  are 
♦autioned  against  the  use  of  same. 

<3J  <TWtmuV 


INDISPENSABLE! 

If  correct  cookery  is  so 
much  a  matter  of  taste, 
then  Bell's  Spiced 
Seasoning  is  indispen- 
sable to  every  cook. 
There  are  certain  essen- 
tial touches  of  flavor 
that  distinguish  one 
dish  from  another ;  and 
you  can  give  your  Dress- 
ings, Meats,  Turkey, 
Fish,  Game,  Chicken, 
Fowl,  Scalloped  Oys- 
ters, Croquettes,  etc.,  the 
flavor  that  at  once  distinguishes  the  best  from 
the  middling,  the  good  from  the  bad,  by  using 

Bell'sSpiced  Seasoning 

There  may  be  other  Seasonings,  but  only  one  Bell's. 
None  other  flavors  like  it.  None  other  made  like  it. 
Bell's  is  original — over  30  years  the  favorite.  It  is 
used  and  endorsed  by  all  the  leading  cookery  lights, 
because  it  deserves  their  confidence. 

Bell's  is  made  of  the  leaves  of  sweet  herbs  and  choice 
spices,  scientifically  blended.  It  is  composite  —  gives 
better  effect  than  a  dozen  varieties.  No  fussing  with 
mixtures  ;  always  uniform  ;  flavors  that  way.  When 
a  grocer  offers  you  a  substitute  tell  him  you're  the 
authority. 

The  WILLIAM  G.  BELL  CO.,  Sole  Props. 
Koston,   Mass. 


Old  and  New. 


"We  keep  the  best  of  the  old- 
fashioned  and  all  the  new 
things  in  kitchen  utensils. 
Our  store  has  been  a  kitchen 
shop  for  7*>  years,  and  is  a 
veritable  paradise  for  house- 
keepers. We  have  the  finest 
and  largest  assortment  of  do- 
mestic and  foreign  novelties 
to  be  found  in  this  country. 
Moulds  of  all  kinds,  vegetable 
cutters,  garnishing  knives, 
pastry  tubes,  ramekins,  aspic 
moulds,  savarins,  etc.,  etc. 

r.  A.  WALKER  &  CO., 

83-85  Cornhill, 

Boston,  Mass. 

Scollay  Square  Subway  Station. 

Catalogue,  3000  illustrations, 
by  mail,  10c. 


Whenyou  write  Advertisers, please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


IC&HI 


» 


frr«A  CREAM  OirvT  OH' 
BOTTLCfi  IM  ECHORN  rTAU. 
l^COD  MAM  &HAUC?  8i£22| 


EXTRA  CREAN 

OLIVE 
OIL, 

UCCA 


OUR  OWN 

IMPORTING  6t  BOTTLINCr 


WE  KNOW  YOU  WANT 
ONLY  THE 

Best  Olive  Oil 


For    this    reason    we 

import  THE  BEST, 

and  you  can  buy  it  of 

us  at  what  you  are 

paying  for 

ordinary  oil. 

We  carry  the  finest  line  of 
Brandies,  Sherries,  Ports 
and  Madeira,  for  cooking 
and  medicinal  use,  to  be 
found  in  Boston* 

Send  for  our  Price  List. 

Goods  delivered  in  Boston 
and  Suburbs,  FREE. 

Mail  orders  promptly  shipped 
to  any  point. 


m  4. 

Codmat^  HallC? 

L  DIRECTLY      OPPOSITE  ^ 

V*  NEW  SOUTH    STATIOIS  8 


D  EWEY SQUARE 
i,„    TELEPHONE        - 
""V  881  OXFORD 


Tw 


Household  Hints. 

Lampwicks  should  be  pinched  and 
rubbed  smooth,  not  cut. 

A  lump  of  camphor  placed  in  the 
silver  drawer  will  prevent  the  silver 
from  rusting. 

Copperas  dissolved  in  boiling  water, 
if  poured  into  drain  pipes,  will  remove 
the  grease  and  carry  away  all  impuri- 
ties. 

It  is  never  extravagant  to  buy  good., 
expensive  table  linen,  as  every  dollar 
added  to  the  cost  adds  to  the  length 
of  time  it  will  give  service. 

Salt  and  vinegar  will  be  found  the 
best  for  scouring  the  copper  preserving- 
kettle  ;  a  lemon  cut  in  half  and  dipped 
in  salt  will  remove  all  stains. 

A  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  boiling  on 
the  stove  will  counteract  the  smell  of 
strong  food;  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 
cloves  on  a  few  hot  coals  will  produce 
the  same  result. 

The  inside  of  a  coffee-pot  should 
be  carefully  washed  each  time  it  is 
used ;  the  brown  deposit  which  soon 
forms  on  the  sides  of  the  pot  will  pre- 
vent the  coffee  from  being  clear. 

A  small  bag  of  charcoal  hung  in 
impure  water  will  purify  it,  and  it  is 
well  to  keep  such  a  bag  in  the  cistern ; 
water  filtered  through  charcoal  may 
also  be  rendered  perfectly  pure. 

Stains  may  be  removed  from  the 
hands  by  rubbing  with  a  slice  of  raw 
tomato,  and  a  cake  of  sandsoap  should 


GREATEST  WARMTH, 
LEAST  WEIGHT, 


'pUtf 


WLA 


V00 


w 


New  York: 

Brooklyn : 
Boston : 
Philadelphia: 


SEND  FOR 
ILLUSTRATED 
CATALOGUE 

'  16  West  23d  St. 
166  Broadway. 
504  Fulton  St. 
169  Tremont  St. 
924  Chestnut  St. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  phase  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


,fffff8f„ff,IftfBi,iIffIftWiiVfWfifW«f««ir*Wf«*«if« 


See  The 
Range 


that  does  about  everything  but 
talk.  It  has  an  illuminated, 
asbestos,  lined  oven  and  many 
improvements  that  save  coal, 
time    and  worry.       Now  on  ex- 


hibition at  the  Glenwood  dealer's  —  the  Glenwood    Home  Grand   the  latest 

GLENWOOD 

Weir  Stove  Company,     Taunton,  Mass. 


SAWYER'S 

Crystal 

Blue 

gives  a 
beautiful  tint 
to  linens, 
laces  and 
goods  that 
are  worn 
and  faded* 

Be  sure  that 
you  get 

SAWYER'S. 
40   YEARS  THE  PEOPLE'S  CHOICE,  j 


Ow!  Wow!! 
That's  the  Stuff! 

BAYLE'S 
HORSERADISH 
MDSTARD 

The  Original  &  Genuine. 

IS  THE  ONLY  MUSTARD,! 

And  the  finest  condi- 
ment in  the  world. 

Beware  of  Imitations. 

Sole  Maker, 

GEO.  A.  BAYLE 

St.  Louis,  U.  S,  A. 

For  sale  by  wholesale 

and  retail  grocers 

throughout  the  United 

States. 


A  Little  Wonder,  Alcolia. —  Alcolia  is 
solidified  alcohol.  It  looks  like  wax,  but  touch 
a  match  to  it  and  there  is  the  full  heat  of  the 
pure  liquid.  The  little  tripod  holder,  that 
moves  up  from  the  bottom  of  the  tiny  can,  is 
so  strong  that  it  will  hold  any  small  ordinary 
cooking  or  heating  utensil. 

The  greatest  of  convenience  for  quick  heat- 
ing of  water  for  toilet  purposes,  tea-making, 
or  sick-room  or  nursery  use. 


When  you  write  Advertisers, please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-Sciiool  Magazine. 


GOOD  SALAD 

is  possible  only  with  good  oJive  oil.  Some 
oils  are  made  from  cotton  seeds,  animal 
fats  and  similar  products,  which  are  often 
injurious. 

Weelle  Wive  *®il 

is  a  pure,  nutritious,  perfectly  flavored 
olive  oil.  It  is  made  from  *'  sound  "  olives 
and  from  nothing  else.  It  makes  a  perfect 
dressing  for  perfect  salads.  Try  a  bottle 
and  judge  for  yourself. 
"Comparison  is  the  test  of  Superiority." 


fXCLUSlVISTS  INOUYES  AND  OUVE  PRODUCTS 


THREE  IN  ONE 

The  Enterprise 

Food  Chopper 

Chops  any  article  of  Food  Fine.  Medium  or 
Coarse  as  desired 


rr 


NO.    100,    $1.50 

WE  MAKE  30  OTHER  SIZES  AND  STYLES 

FROM  $1.00  TO  $275.00 

FOR     HAND    AND     POWER 

Ask  your  Dealer  for  them 

Descriptive  Catalogue  Mailed  Free 

THE  ENTERPRISE  MFG.  CO   of  PA. 
Philadelphia,  Pa.,  U.  S.  A. 


always  be  kept  convenient  for  remov- 
ing ink  stains  or  grime  from  the  hands. 

A  teaspoonful  of  turpentine  put  into 
the  tub  in  which  clothes  are  soaking 
will  greatly  aid  in  making  them  brill- 
iantly white,  and  will  be  a  great  help 
when  clothes  have  become  very  yellow 
for  want  of  use. 

Canned  fruit  and  vegetables  should 
be  removed  from  the  cans  as  soon  as 
they  are  opened. 

Ivory-handled  knives  should  be  kept 
in  a  canton-flannel  bag,  having  sepa- 
rate compartments  for  each  knife. 

An  old  silk  handkerchief  makes  the 
best  duster  for  polished  surfaces,  and  a 
slightly  dampened  dust  cloth  is  better 
than  a  dry  one  for  the  majority  of 
woods. 

Irons  should  not  be  allowed  to  be- 
come red  hot,  as  it  makes  them  rough, 
and  they  do  not  retain  the  heat  so  well 
afterward. 

Silver  can  be  kept  clean  without 
a  weekly  cleaning  if  carefully  washed 
with  hot  soapsuds  each  time  it  is  used. 

Sweet  oil,  with  a  little  vinegar  added, 
will  restore  the  lustre  to  the  leather 
backs  and  seats  of  chairs. 

Boiled  starch  is  improved  by  the 
addition  of  a  little  sperm  salt  or  gum 
arabic  dissolved. 

The  secret  of  household  economy 
lies  in  giving  careful  supervision  to  all 
household  supplies,  and  in  the  judi- 
cious use  of  the  leftovers. 


State  of  Ohio,  City  of  Toledo,  \  ss 
Lucas  County,  j     ' 

Frank  J.  Cheney  makes  oath  that  he  is  the  senior 
partner  of  the  firm  of  F.  J.  Cheney  &  Co.,  doing  busi- 
ness in  the  city  of  Toledo,  County  and  State  afore- 
said, and  that  said  firm  will  pay  the  sum  of  ONE 
HUNDRED  DOLLARS  for  each  and  every  case  of 
Catarrh  that  cannot  be  cured  by  the  use  of  Halls 
Catarrh  Cure.  franr  ^   CHENEY 

Sworn  to  before  me,  and  subscribed  in  my  presence, 
this  6th  day  of  December,  A.D.  1886 

^-^.-^-,  A.  Vv  .  CtL.EAoiJ.IN, 

Jseal.  j  Notary  1'ublic. 

HalTs  Catarrh   Cure  is  taken  internally,  and  acts 
directly  on  the  blood  and  mucous  surfaces  of  the  sys- 
tem.   Send  for  testimonials,  free.  rV„,aAn  n 
F.  J.  CHENEY  &  CO.,  Toledo,  O. 

Sold  by  Druggists,  75c. 

Hall's'Familv  Pills  are  the  best. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


ETIC     VALU 


91 


SALADA 

CBYIvON    TEA, 

As  a  refreshing  and  absolutely  harmless  stimulant,  is  endorsed  by  eminent  medical  scientists  and   food 
specialists.    Sold  only  in  sealed  lead  packets,  50,  GO  and  70  Cts.  per  lb.,  at  all  Grocers. 

CHAPIN  &  ADAMS,  Wholesale  Agents,     200  State  St,,  Boston,  Mass, 


MAHLER 
ELECTRIC 
APPARATUS 


ror,Hh?mova,of  SUPERFLUOUS  HAIR 

This  is  the  only  apparatus  ever  invented  which  ladies  can  operate 
In  the  privacy  of  their  own  homes.  Results  Positive.  Simple- 
Safe— Economical.  Ladies  afflicted  are  invited  to  send  for  de- 
scriptive circular,     correspondence  confidevUah 

►.J.  IWAHXER.  311   Westminster  St..  Providence,  B.  I. 


NOTHING 
LIKE/ 


C&ND0 

"-)  POLISH 


m 
m 

fv 
'!» 
'tv 

t> 

A   F-REE  TH1AL  uF  *> 

THE    ROYAL  9S 

Silver     Polish.  *J 

We  have  made  arrangements  with  dealers  to  give  9\ 

their  customers  tree  a  Sample  Bottle  of  "OAXIfO"  Ql 

Silver    l*oli*ih.      If  your  dealer  should  not  have  it,  /fv 

send   us   his  address.     We  will  see  that   you    get   it.  n\ 

First  try  it,  then  you'll  buy  it.  L 

PAUL     MRG.     CO.,  V 

m 


CANDO, 


40  Fulton  Street, 


BOSTOX. 


4Mtt9&iiS&»M&9''l'Ml!l&9&9:*&l<a&lff 


PATENTECL.--DEC.27 

SOLIDIFIED  ALCOHOL" 

ABSOLUTELY  NON  EXPLOSIVE. 

ACOMPIETEPOCKETSTOVE 

READY  FOR  INSTANT  USE. 

NTPOSMCWiS 

p^  STAMPS  OR   CURRENCY. 

Has  all  the  advantages  and  none  of 
the  inconveniences  of  Liquid  Alcohol 
and  in  burning  produces  greater  heat. 
Will  burn  continuously  for  i%  hours,  or 
may  be  relit  from  time  to  time. 
No  Odor — No  Waste — No  Evap- 
oration— Cannot  possibly  soil  the 
clothes  or  traveling  bag. 

Indispensable  in  Sick  Room  and  Nursery, 
Traveling  or  Camping;  at  Picnics,  After- 
noon Teas,  for  Chafing-dish  Cooking,  and 
making  Hot  Toddies,  etc. 

SPECIAL  QUOTATIONS  TO  THE  TRADE 

Descriptive  pamphlet,  giving  full  information  re- 
garding Alcolia  and  its  uses,  mailed  on  request. 

Sold  by  Leading  Druggists  and  Department  Stores 

OR  MAILED  BY 

The  ALCOLIA  CO.,    bO  East  11th  St.,  New  York 

STOVE 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Dainty  Desserts  for  Dainty  People  "  (little  cook  book). 
Sent  for  2c.  stamp,  or  free  with  order. 

eai*X  Gelatine  Factor*  *«* 


B.  .Hitman  *  Co. 

NEW  YORK. 

AKT  POKCELAINS, 
BKONZES,  MARBLES,  Etc. 

Selected  examples  from  the  finest 
studios  of  Paris,  Berlin,  Vienna  and 
Florence* 

Sevres,  Vienna,  Dresden,  Royal 
Worcester   and  other   Porcelains. 

Limoges,  Enamels,  Dutch  Silver, 
Carved  Ivory,  Nancy  and  Lorraine 
Glass,  Terra  Cottas,  Fine  Carrara 
Marbles* 

Art  Furniture,  Lamps  and  Cut  Glass. 

Descriptions  and  prices  cheerfully 
furnished   upon  application. 


Try  wrapping  a  baked  potato  in  a 
napkin  as  soon  as  it  is  done,  and  press 
slightly  until  it  bursts  open,  and  it  will 
be  sure  to  be  mealy. 

For  a  damp  china-closet  or  cupboard, 
liable  to  mildew,  place  in  it  a  saucerful 
of  quicklime  ;  it  will  absorb  all  damp- 
ness, and  sweeten  and  disinfect  the 
space  ;  renew  as  often  as  it  becomes 
thoroughly  slacked. 

When  putting  away  fine  china  plates 
insert  heavy  white  paper  between  each 
plate  ;  cut  round  to  fit  the  plate.  Odd 
pieces  and  novelties  should  be  placed 
by  themselves.  Use  fine  white  paper 
or  linen.  Ornament  with  lace  paper 
or  heavy  embroidery. 

Carving  knives  and  forks  should 
never  be  put  in  hot  water.  It  is  best 
not  to  place  them  in  water  at  all.  Hold- 
ing them  over  the  pan,  and  washing  with 
the  cloth,  will  clean  them  thoroughly. 
Use  a  fine  emery  stone  as  a  sharpener. 


DISILLUSIONED. 
Pretty  maiden  in  a  hammock 

Makes  pretence  of  reading  book ; 
But  she's  angling  for  a  husband 

And  she  gets  him  on  the  hook. 
Homely  sister  in  the  kitchen 

Helps  the  wedding  feast  to  cook  ; 
But  her  pretty  sister's  fiance 

Scarce  gives  her  a  passing  look. 
A  year  later  and  the  husband 
.    Unto  himself  a  tumble  took  ; 
Now  he's  sorry  that  he  didn't 

Wed  the  unattractive  cook. 

— Chicago  News. 

For  all  delicate  work  in  the  laundry  Elec- 
tric Lustre  Starch  will  be  found  to  give  the 
very  best  results.  It  requires  no  cooking,  and 
will  not  stick  to  the  iron.  Curtains  and  drap- 
eries starched  with  Electric  Lustre  Starch 
look  fresh  and  dainty  as  when  new.  There  is 
no  excuse  for  poor  work  in  the  laundry  when 
it  is  used. 

Delicious  desserts,  delicately  flavored, 
perfect  in  consistency,  and  quickly  prepared, 
are  always  insured  by  the  use  of  Knox's  Acid- 
ulated Gelatine.  Send  a  two-cent  stamp  to 
C.  B.  Knox,  Johnstown,  N.  Y.,  for  the  book- 
let, "  Dainty  Desserts  for  Dainty  People," 
containing  about  seventy  recipes  for  the  use 
of  his  gelatine. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


TT  I-£  E 


PONDEX 
SHOE 


*=-0   F£ 


WOMEN 

A  GENUINE 
SIX  DOLLAR 
ARTICLE     FOR 


50 


A  LL 

STYLES 

A  N  D 

Leathers 

MADE    BY 

DEXTER  POND   &   CO. 

BOSTON  STORE 
I59TREM0NTST. 


FREE  TRIP  TO  EUROPE. 


32  days  abroad  —  all  expenses  paid, 
visiting    Paris,    London    and    Brussels. 

UNEQUALLED   OFFER  OF 

THE 
NATIONAL 
MAGAZINE. 

If  you  secure  300  yearly  subscriptions 
for  "THE  NATIONAL  MAGA- 
ZINE" at  $1  each,  before  July  1,  igoo, 
you  earn  the  right  to  join,  without  cost 
to  you,  the  "National  Magazine  Euro- 
pean Parly,"  which  sails  from  New 
York,  July  14,  for  a  32  days'  trip  to 
Paris  (visiting  the  Exposition),  London 
and   Brussels. 

SEND  FOR  EXCURSION  BOOKLET 
AND  FULL  PARTICULARS. 

THE  W.  W.  POTTER  CO. 

91  BEDFORD  ST.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 
JOE  M.  CHAPPLE,  Editor  and  Publisher. 

Trial  Subscription,  "  The  National  Maga- 
zine," 4  months,  25  cents 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Swan's  Down 
Baking  Powder 


RECOMMENDED 

AND    SOLD    BY 

S.  S.  PIERCE  CO. 

BOSTON  — BROOKLINE. 

A    FEW    MINUTES'   TIME 
AND   A    POSTAL   CARD 

SKNT    TO 

The  Household, 

No.  110  Boylston  Street, 
BOSTON,  MASS. 

Will  bring  you  a  sample  copy  of  that  publication,  which  will 
furnish  you  a  large  amount  of  valuable  reading. 


EACH    NUMBER    CONTAINS 


Illustrated  Stories, 

Facta  ami  Incident*, 

Timely  Editorials, 

Miscellaneous  Articles, 

Mother*'  and  Children'*  Pages, 

Houset'iirnishing  and  Decoration, 

Housekeeping, 

Recipes  and 

Articles  on  Crooking, 

Needlework  anil 

I'.iiiIm  i>iiici\,  etc.,   etc. 


UNUSUAL    CONDITIONS    IN    THE    VEGE- 
TABLE   MARKET. 

An  unusual  condition  has  prevailed 
in  the  South  this  season  in  the  vege- 
table trade,  and  as  a  result  there  is 
expected  to  be  a  winter  trade  in  green 
vegetables  larger  than  ever  known  here 
before.  Ordinarily  February  brings 
the  earliest  Southern  vegetables  to  the 
Northern  markets  that  depend  upon 
Texas  and  other  states  on  the  western 
part  of  the  Gulf  for  supplies.  This  sea- 
son the  early  crop  will  be  here  two  or 
three  months  in  advance  of  the  cus- 
tomary time,  and  it  will  be  quite  a 
novelty  for  this  market  to  get  green 
vegetables  of  any  consequence  at  this 
unusual  season. 


SAMPLE  COPY  FREE. 

SUBSCRIPTION     PRICE,     $1.00     PER     YEAR. 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  Ti 


WHEN    PEGGY    GOES    TO    MARKET. 

When  Peggy  takes  her  basket  up 

And  off  to  market  goes, 
I'm  stupefied  with  wonder  at 

How  very  much  she  knows. 
She  makes  her  way  between  the  stalls 

And  with  judicial  air 
Decides  that  this  is  "  so  and  so  " 

And  that  is  "pretty  fair." 

She  knows  if  fish  are  fresh  or  not, 

And,  wise  as  any  owl, 
She  differentiates  between 

A  chicken  and  a  fowl. 
She  thumbs  the  breastbone  of  the  one, 

And  pulls  the  other's  legs; 
She  squints  her  pretty  little  eyes 

To  test  the  new-laid  eggs. 

The  vegetables  must  be  just  right, 

For,  with  a  critic's  eye, 
She  scans  them,  not  inclined  to  pass 

Their  imperfections  by. 
She  calls  the  market  folks  by  name; 

Ah,  what  a  lot  she  knows, 
When  Peggy  takes  her  basket  up 

And  off  to  market  goes  ! 

When  Peggy  does  the  marketing 

My  heart  with  pride  she  fills; 
I  go  along,  a  useless  thing, 
Except  to  pay  the  bills. 

—  Johnstone  Murray. 
Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


1  Miller's  Hotel,! 

39  W.  26th  St.,  New  York  City,     ft 

Between    Broadway,  Fifth    and    Sixth  Avenues,  <j>» 
Near  Madison  Square  Park.  & 

ft 

J?  Clean,  comfortable,  quiet.  Convenient  to  retail  v£ 
J  trade,  leading  churches,  theatres  and  places  of  r* 
J  amusement.  A  strictly  temperance  house.  Twenty-  ^ 
J?  five  of  the  permanent  guests  have  been  here  an  ^ 
J  average  of  twelve  years.  Send  for  circular  giving  j£ 
J  size,  location,  outlook,  water  and  heat  supply,  ^ 
Jf  with  rate  for  each  of  the  ninety-three  rooms.  jjj 

?  CHAS.  H.   HAYNES,  5 

4  Proprietor.    9| 

or  a  Morris  Chair, 
Gold  or  Silver  Watch, 

Ladies' 
Rocker, 
Sideboard, 
Metal  Bed 
and  Springs, 
Parlor 
Bookcase 
f    and  Desk 


This  Couch, 


Given  away  with  a  $12.00  order  of 

MEALINE    SOAP. 


fip,  Laundry  Soap,  Naptha-rine  Washing  Powder,  Clean- 
|all,  Perfumes,  etc.     ' 


Tar 

Any  combination  you  want.    Special  offer 
on  a  Bicycle. 

Keep  what  you  want  and  sell  the  rest. 

Premium  shipped  with  Soap,  30  days  for  remittance.  Send 
■4  ce  ut*  in  stamps  for  illustrated  circular  and  cake  of  Mealiue 
Soup  or  sample  of  perfume. 

MEALINE  COMPANY,  14  Factory  St.,  New  Haven,  Conn. 


♦♦♦ ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ ♦< 

*  THAT  PERSISTENT  TICKLING  \ 
COUGH. 

♦  That    sticky  secretion    in    the  /  --.am^cd 

♦  ;l       .      A    ■  l    L)ANGtK 

*  throat  and  air  passages. 

J  That  sense  of  tightness  across  /  qipmalS     ♦ 
the  chest,  or 
Those  needle-like  pains  through 
the  chest. 


For  these  conditions  take 

HALE'S  Honey  of 
Horehound  and  Tar 

and  be  on  the  safe  side.     It  is  a  remarkable 
a  cure  for   colds,  coughs,  sore  throats,  bron-  4 
j  chitis  and  affections  of  the  throat  and  lungs. 
♦  Of  all  druggists.     Beware  of  substitutes. 


♦  Pike's  Toothache  Drops  cure  in  one  minute. 

♦  ♦ 

A  A.  A AAAAAAAA AAAAAAAA AAAAAAAA AAA 
♦♦♦▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼ WwWWWW^W^W 


*££££££££££££££££££££££££££££*£££*£££££££££££* 


m 
m 
to 
m 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 
to 


Cbe  Htlauttc  JYLontbly 

Miss  Zitkaia-Sa,  a  young  Indian  girl  of  the   Yankton  Sioux  Tribe  of 
Dakota  Indians,  who  received  her  education  in  the  East,  has  written 

THE   MEMORIES   OF   AN    INDIAN  CHILDHOOD 

These  unique  and  genuine  records  of  the  mind  of  an  Indian  child  are  told  precisely  in  her 
own  words,  in  which  the  slight  flavor  of  the  foreign  tongue  will  be  perhaps  detected. 

A  leading  feature  of  the  Atlantic  during  the  first  six  months  of  1000  will  be 

THE   AUTOBIOGRAPHY   OF    W.   J.   STILLMAN 

Mr.  Stillman's  career  as  artist,  editor  and  newspaper  correspondent  in  various  foreign  coun- 
tries has  brought  him  into  touch  with  many  of  the  most  striking  personages  and  events  of  the 
last  fifty  years. 

ROLLIN   LYNDE    HARTT 

The  series  of  articles  devoted  to  social  interpretations  of  different  sections  of  the  United 
States  will  be  continued  in  two  or  three  articles  written  by  Mr.  Rollin  Lynde  Hartt,  whose  brill- 
iant and  vigorous  characterizations  of  Montana,  New  England,  and  Ohio  will  be  recalled  by 
every  reader  of  the  Atlantic.     Mr.  Hartt's  study  of  Michigan  will  appear  in  an  early  issue  of  1900. 

JOHN    MUIR 

Mr.  John  Muir  will  contribute  to  early  issues  a  group  of  three  articles,  one  upon  The  Trees, 
Shrubs,  and  Gardens  of  the  Yosemite,  another  upon  The  Lakes,  Streams,  and  Canons  of  the  Yo- 
semite,  and  another  upon  The  Sequoia  National  Park. 

SPFCIAL  OFFRR  :  —  In  order  to  introduce  the  Atlantic  to  a  large  circle  of  new  readers,  the 
publishers  announce  that  on  receipt  of  50  cents  the  magazine  will  be  sent  on  trial,  for  three 
months,  to  any  person  whose  name  does  not  now  appear  upon  the  Atlantic  subscription  list. 

Illustrated  prospectus  for  igoo  now  in  preparation.    Send  10  cents  for  a  recent  sample  copy  of  the  magazine 

and  the  prospectus. 

35  Cents  a  Copy.       $4.00  a  Year. 


to 

W 


,K  HOUGHTON,  MIFFLIN  &  COMPANY,         4  Park  St.,  Boston,  ft 

When  you  write  Advertisers, please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Selected  large  Queen 
Olives.stuffed  with 
mild,  sweet  peppers 
^specially  treated. 
'wholesome, 
delicious,  Appetizing 
An  Ideal  Table  Relish. 

Are  made  of  large  Manzanilla  olives,  prepared  exactly  as 
Pim  Olas,  differing  only  in  flavor  which  some  connoisseurs 

prefer  ^licette  ©five  ©it 

Made  in  Njce.France,  only  from  selected "sound'blives. 

Absolutely  pure,  unadulterated.having  a  unique  and  delicious 

flavor, peculiar  to  itself.and  superior  to  any  other  oil. 

Sold  by  all  dealers. 

Seville  Packing  Co.,  New  York 

Exclusivists  in  Olives  and  Olive  Products 


IRalston  eS?3 

oTILLf 


-*5 


DISTILLED  WATER  GIVES 
CLEAR  COMPLEXION. 

This  is  a  result  —  not  a  cause 
—  the  result  of  perfect  flushing 
in  the  human  system.  Pure  dis- 
tilled water  perfectly  dissolves 
all  the  waste  matter  and  carries 
it  off. 

Mineral  water  is  saturated  with 
minerals  and  chemicals  in  solu- 
tion and  cannot  act  as  a  perfect 
solvent. 

Distilled  Water  is  not  enough. 
To  get  the  best  results,  it  must 
">e  : 

I.  PUKE  DISTILLED 
"WATER  made  by  condens- 
ing clean  steam. 

II.  PALATABLE  DIS- 
TILLED WATER,  by 
being  thoroughly  aerated  by 
pure  air. 

III.  PLENTIFUL  DISTILLED  WATER  ma  1.  in 
one  of  our  small,  compact  and  easily  bandied  Btllls  winch 
produces  more  pure,  distilled  water  in  a  given  time  than 
bv  the  ordinary  clumsy  stills. 

IV.  CHEAP  DISTILLED  WATER,  with  a  reason- 
able price  for  the  still.  Our  up-to-date  Still  sells  for  the 
same  price  as  the  antiquated  ones  now  on  the  market. 

Highest  award  and  Gold  Medal  received  at  the 
recent  Omaha  Exposition. 

Official  endorsement  of  the  Ralston  Health  Club 
of  America,  representing  5,000,000  members,— given  and 
held  alone  on  merit. 

We  Prove  our  claims  bv  freely  Driving  either  a  private  or 
public  test  on  every  point  made.  Every  Still  sold  sells  many 
others, —the  best  possible  kind  of  advertising. 

Booklet  sent  free  on  postal  request. 

Manufactured  only  by  The  A.  R.  Bailey  Mfg.  Co.,  87  .Maiden 
Lane,  New  York. 

Boston  Agents:— C.  J:  BAILEY  A  CO.,  22  Boylston  St. 


The  one  thing  American  cooks  and 
housewives  should  strive  to  accomplish 
is  the  knowledge  of  preparing  a  great 
number  of  relishing  and  nutritive  dishes 
from  the  most  homely  material,  and 
thus  reduce  materially  the  family  table 
expenses.  They  may  have  to  borrow 
from  the  French  and  Italian  methods 
to  do  this,  but  the  results  will  justify 
this  course.  It  will  be  one  of  the  pur- 
poses of  this  column  in  the  near  future 
to  point  the  way  that  will  bring  these 
desirable  dishes  on  to  the  average 
table,  and  at  the  same  time  keep  down 
the  grocery  and  meat  bills.  Success  in 
this  will  please  us  all. 


Say  what  we  may,  there  are  queens 
in  our  kitchen  who  govern  the  whole 
house.  The  food  prepared  by  them 
forms  the  staple  of  our  lives.  If  we  have 
poor  food,  we  are  not  well ;  if  we  have 
good  food  properly  cooked,  then  our 
lives  run  smoothly  and  in  health.  The 
evils  in  strong  drink  are  great,  but  the 
evils  of  bad  cooking  and  ill-selected 
food  are  greater.  It  is  one  of  the 
curious  things  of  our  ethics  that  the 
really  most  important  matters  of  our 
households  are  too  often  entrusted  to 
the  lowest  intelligences  we  meet  with 
in  society ;  that,  when  we  hire  cooks, 
we  trust  our  lives  and  health  to  per- 
sons who  can  neither  read  nor  write,  in 
many  cases,  and  who  do  not  have  any 
clear  idea  of  what  they  are  about,  save 
to  get  all  they  can,  break  the  crockery, 
and  dress  in  what  finery  they  can  on 
a  Sunday. 

Would  that  the  time  spent  by  the 
queens  of  our  parlors  on  crazy  quilts, 
screens,  and  fancy  needlework  (well 
enough  in  their  place)  was  given  to  the 
beautiful  problems  connected  with  food, 
that  are  so  vitally  important  and  con- 
stantly pressing  on  our  attention  every 
time  we  eat.  —  Dr.  Cutter,  in  "  Hygienic 
Gazette." 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Christmas  Cards, 
Calendars  and 
Booklet  Packets. 

18TH  SEASON. 

Our  well-known  packets 
are  ready,  and  need  only- 
brief  mention.  First  7 
Packs,  post-paid,  for  $3.85.  10  Packs,  post- 
paid, SS5.80. 

No.  1.  For  54  cts.,  17  Xmas  Cards  and  Novelty. 
««     2.    "     54  cts.,  10  Fine         "         "     Booklet. 
"     3.    "     $1.08,   25  Xmas  Cards,  1  Set  (four) 
Brownie  Cards. 
SI  .08,   10  Beautiful  Calendars. 
54  cts.,    5  -  "   all  different. 

27  cts.,  10  Xmas  Cards. 
54  cts.,    5  Booklets  and  Calendar. 
$1.08,      7  Artistic  Booklets. 
54  cts.,    5  Photos,  Mounted.  8x10  Clas- 
sical and  Modern  Subjects. 
54  cts.,  25  Sunday-School  Cards. 
OS-  Special  Packets  and  lots  put  up  to  order. 
TrnnUTDO    For  $1 .08,  50  Cards, no  two  alike. 
1 1  All  M  tllO.  For  54  cts., 25  Cards,no  two  alike. 
Samples  paper  by  the  pound,  15  Cents. 

H.H.CARTER  &  CO., 

Satisfaction  5  Somerset  Street,  Boston.. 

Guaranteed.  Full  Circulars  on  application. 


"  4. 

"  5. 

"  6. 

**  7. 

"  8. 

"  9. 

«  10. 


1  Pnhnnl  nfllm.onl.nnnu.flr  t 


£ 


45  St.  Botolph  Street,  Boston,  Mass.        t 

I 

Second  Terms  for  Employers  (day  and  res-  '+ 
ident  pupils),  Jan.  1st;  for  Employees,  fc» 
February  15th.  £ 

Instruction  for  Employers  in  House  Sani-  jjj 
tation,  Chemistry  of  Foods,  Household  i* 
Economics,  Household  Management,  ^ 
and  Principles  of  Housework,  Cooking: 
and  Marketing. 

SPECIAL    LECTURES 

By  Prof.  Wm.  T.  Sedgwick, 
Prof.  Edward  Cummings, 

Prof.  S.  Homer  Woodbridge, 
Prof.  A.  H.  Gill, 
Mr.  G.  W.  Kolfe, 

Mrs.  Ellen  H.  Richards, 
Miss  Emily  G.  Balch, 

and  others.  j£ 

Apply  to  MISS   GOODRICH,  £ 

Director  of  the  School.        <£> 


*¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥* 


mmmimmMmimmmmwmmimmm 


Cookery* 


Societies,  Schools  and  Clubs  can  obtain  terms 
for  single  demonstrations,  or  for  courses  of 
six,  by  addressing 

MRS.  JANET  M.  HILL, 
372  Boylston  St.,  BOSTON,  MASS.     - 


Mrs.  Janet  McKenzie  Hill,    S 


EDITOR  OF  THE 

BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE, 

AUTHOR  OF 

"SALADS,  SANDWICHES  AND 

CHAFING-DISH  DAINTIES." 


Talks  on  Domestic  Science, 

And  Practical  Demonstrations  in 


Companion  Stories  for  1900.  —  The 
stories  published  in  The  Youth's  Companion 
portray  the  manly  and  womanly  virtues  with 
no  sacrifice  of  interest  or  vitality,  and  they 
appeal  to  the  sympathies  of  old  and  young 
alike.  During  1900  The  Companion  will  offer 
special  series  of  stories — among  them  being 
stories  of  Former  Political  Campaigns  and 
Adventures  of  Linemen. 

Besides  these  there  will  be  a  score  of  stories 
for  girls  by  such  writers  as  Sarah  Orne  Jewett, 
Mary  E.  Wilkins,  Margaret  Deland,  Elizabeth 
Stuart  Phelps,  Edith  Wharton,  Kate  Chopin 
and  Margaret  Sangster.  There  will  be  four 
serial  stories  —  "A  Prairie  Infanta,"  by  Eva 
Wilder  Brodhead ;  "  Running  a  Merry-Go- 
Round,"  by  Charles  Adams;  "The  School- 
house  Farthest  West,"  by  C.  A.  Stephens ; 
and  "  Cushing  Brothers,"  by  Ray  Stannard 
Baker.  In  addition  there  will  be  two  hundred 
other  short  stories  by  the  most  gifted  of 
American  writers  of  fiction. 

All  new  subscribers  will  receive  The  Com- 
panion's new  calendar  for  1900,  suitable  as  an 
ornament  for  the  prettiest  room  in  the  house. 

Illustrated  announcement  number,  contain- 
ing a  full  prospectus  of  the  volume  for  1900, 
will  be  sent  free  to  any  address. 

The  Youth's  Companion,  203  Columbus 
Avenue,  Boston,  Mass. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Hungry 
for 
his 
Wheatlet. 


THE    EPICURE. 

Don't  talk  to  me   of  women  fair, 
Don't  talk  to  me  of  music  sweet, 

Don't  talk  of  anything  at  all, 

But  give  me  something  good  to  eat. 

—  Chicago  ATews. 


For  young  or  old,  there  is 
nothing  so  satisfying  as 

Wheatlet 

It  is  delicate,  substantial 
and  easily  digested.  Contains 
a  larger  percentage  of  nutri- 
ment than  any  other  Break- 
fast Food. 

Sold  by  most  grocers  everywhere. 
A  booklet  on  Wheatlet  mailed  on  request. 

THE  FRANKLIN  MILLS  CO.,  L0CKP0RT,  N.  Y. 

CO-OPERATIVE 
COOKING- CLASSES. 


Mr.  Frank  M.  Keith, 

Professional  Instructor 
of  Cooking, 

is  open  for  engagements  to  give  dem- 
onstration lectures  in  Cooking  for 
Women's  Clubs,  Ladies'  Aid  Societies, 
societies  and  organizations  in  general, 
equally  dividing  the  receipts. 

The  treasuries  of  these  organizations 
can  thus  be  increased  and  the  towns 
benefited  by  an  instructive  course  of 
lessons. 


FOR   FUUv    PARTICULARS    ADDRESS 

Frank  M.  Keith, 

10  BEAVER  STREET,  WORCESTER,  MASS. 

When  you  write  Advertise*  s, please  mention 


POISONING    FROM    CANNED    MEATS. 

Instances  of  poisoning  from  the  eat- 
ing of  canned  meats  have  become 
quite  common.  Although  it  may  be 
possible  that  in  some  instances  the  ill 
effects  arise  from  metallic  poisoning, 
in  a  great  majority  of  cases  the  poison- 
ous substances  are  formed  by  putre- 
factive changes.  In  many  cases  it  is 
probable  that  decomposition  begins 
after  the  can  has  been  opened  by  the 
consumer ;  in  others  the  canning  is 
imperfectly  done,  and  putrefaction  is 
far  advanced  before  the  food  reaches 
the  consumer.  In  still  other  instances 
the  meat  may  have  been  taken  from 
diseased  animals,  or  it  may  have  under- 
gone putrefactive  changes  before  the 
canning.  It  should  always  be  remem- 
bered that  canned  meat  is  especially 
liable  to  putrefactive  changes  after  the 
can  has  been  opened,  and  when  the 
contents  of  the  open  can  are  not  con- 
sumed at  once  the  remainder  should  be 
kept  in  a  cold  place  or  thrown  away. 
People  are  especially  careless  on  this 
point.  While  every  one  knows  that 
fresh  meat  should  be  kept  in  a  cold 
place  during  the  summer,  an  open  can 
of  meat  is  often  allowed  to  stand  at 
summer  temperature  and  its  contents 
are  eaten  hours  after  the  can  has  been 
opened.  This  is  not  safe,  and  has 
caused  several  outbreaks  of  meat  poi 
soning  that  have  come  under  the  ob- 
servation of  the  writer.  —  Dr.  Victor 
Vaughan,  in  Appleton's  Popular  Science 
Monthly. 

Congress  Muffins. —  Three  cups  of  flour, 
two  cups  of  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  half  a  cup  of 
sugar,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  Congress  Yeast  Powder. 

The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine, 


n=i 


OSTON 
OOKIN 

cnooL 

AOAZI N  E 


Ikikflui 


;CQNTEJi 


CXJOCXIOCXXXXXXXXXXCXXXXXXXXXXPCOOOOCPO 


Vol.  IV. 


FEBRUARY,  MARCH. 


No.  5. 


East  Indian  Ways  with  American  Vegetables. 

Helen  Campbell. 


Some   Duties  of  a  Waitre* 
In  Grandmother's   Days. 
The  Sunshine  Laundry. 
Koumiss.  • 

Essentials  and  Xon-Essenjtals. 


Catherine  J.  Coolidge. 

Belle  Spaulding. 

Eleanor  J.  McKenzie. 

Caroline  Duff  Jordan. 

Louise  Markscheffel. 


Annual  Report  of  Boston  Cooking-School 

Corporation.  Mrs.  Everett  Aforss,  Sec. 

Editorial   Department:  Janet  McKenzie  Hill. 

After- Breakfast    Chat  —  Economical,    Lenten,    and    Seasonable 
Menus —  In   Refi  etc.  —  Recipes  from  Vege- 

Demonstration  —  Recipes    (with  Illustrations   of    Original 
Dishes) — 'Queries    and    Answers  —  News  an; 

(For  complete  index  see  second  and  fourth  pages.) 


Published  Bimonthly  by 

THE   BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE, 

Publication  Office:  372  Boylston  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 


by  the  Boston  Cook  igazine 


Entered  at  Boston  Post  Office  as  second-class  matter. 


■^; 


IT    COSTS    THE    MOST  I 


The    ALADDIN    OVEN 

will  cook  food  in  a  scientific  manner  at  the  coat 
of  four  to  five  cents  a  day. 


THOMAS    WOOD    &    CO., 

IMPORTERS  AND  ROASTERS. 
216  STATE  STREET,  BOSTON. 


IT    DRINKS    THE    BEST  I 


Docs  not  heat  the  room,  throw -off  any  odor  of  cookinf, 
doe*  not  require  watching. 


SEND     FOR     A     CIRCULAR 


THE  ASBE8T08  PAPER  CO., 


I    SOME    GOOD    BOOKS   ON    COOKING.   | 

1  Salads,  Sandwiches  and  Chafing-dish  Dainties. 

By  Janet  McKenzie  Hill,  Editor  of  "The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine."     With   J 
It  Illustrations  of  Original  Dishes.    !2mo.    Decorated  cloth,  Si. 50.   Just  published,   fr 

I 


4t 


33  Illustrations  of  Original 
To  the  housewife  who  likes  new  and  dainty  ways  of  serving   food,  this  book  will  simply  be  a  godsend.    Jh«re 
must  be  more  than  a  hundred  different  varieties  of   salads   among  the  recipes.     There  are  also  »n«™«"»,«  ™ *  m»*"$ 
different  kinds  of  lemonades  and  other  soft  drinks,  and  for  making  breads  and  rolls  ,n  the  truly  artistic  cooking-school 
style. —  Washington  Times. 

I  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook=Book. 

-By  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer,  Principal  of  the  Boston  Cooking-School.     ^  Illustrations. 
i2mo.     #2.00. 
The  recipes  are  compounded  with  a  knowledge  of  the  science  of  cooking  and  with  due  regard  to  the  conserva- 
tive public,  which  must  be.  wooed  into  a  knowledge  and  appreciation  of  foods,  not  merely  a,  <$,  but  as  tne 


builders  and  sustainers  of  the  human  body.— The  Outlook. 

A  thoroughly  practical  and  serviceable  book.  —  Congregationnlist.  2, 

By  the  same  Author. 

Chafing-dish  Possibilities. 

By  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer.     i6mo.    $1.00. 

There  have  been  many  volumes  of  chafing-dish   recipes,  but   none  which  is   more   appropriately  adapted  for  the    £ 
breakfast  or  lunch  table,  or  for  small  congenial  parties.     Every  feature  is  distinctly  new.-Boston  Hera.u. 

LITTLE,  BROWN  i?  CO.,  PUBLISHERS, 

254  WASHINGTON  STREET,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


J^?^^^*^*?*^*^^^*^?*^?*?^**^*****^** 


*'***«r^**W! 


When  yen  write  A  dverttsers please  mention  The  Boston  Coo*ing-8chool  Maouini. 


The  Story  of  Vanilla. 

CHAPTER    VIII. 
By  Robert  Manton. 

WHEN  the  good  housewife  takes  a 
bottle  of  Burnett's  vanilla  extract 
from  the  pantry  shelf  to  give  zest, 
fragrance  and  flavor  to  her  cake,  pastry  or 
frozen  dainties,  she  little  imagines  the 
untiring  patience,  the  almost  endless  labor 
and  the  peculiar  skill  that  have  been  joined 
together  to  produce  it. 

Every  bean  from  which  Burnett's  vanilla 
extract  is  made  is  handled  more  than  one 
hundred  and  twenty  times  in  the  process 
of  curing  alone. 

It  should  be  remembered  that  four  or 
five  years  must  elapse  before  a  vanilla 
plant  will  produce  beans,  and  then  many 
more  ^months  are  needed  to  cure  and 
market  them.  The  whole  operation  of 
growing  and  curing  is  a  complex  science, 
and  nothing  else.  It  is  mastered  only  in 
the  school  of  long  experience.  It  is  a  life's 
study  of  nature  in  the  tropics,  and  only  one 
of  Nature's  products  at  that. 

The  picking  of  vanilla  beans  begins  in 
November,  but  the  real  harvest  is  in 
December  and  January.  The  green  beans 
are  brought  from  the  forests  to  the  town  of 
Papantla,  Mexico,  by  the  Indians.  The 
distance  is  about  15  or  20  miles,  and  the 
method  of  transportation  is  upon  the  backs 
of  the  Indians.     (See  Illustration.) 

Green  vanilla  beans  resemble  an  unripe 
banana,  and  a  thousand  of  them  weigh 
from  70  to  80  pounds.  In  earlier  times 
the  beans  were  sold  by  the  thousand,  but 
the  custom  to-day  is  to  buy  and  sell  by 
weight. 

The  beans  have  to  be  sweated  repeatedly. 
They  are  placed  in  layers  between  the  folds 
of  blankets,  and  are  then  in  turn  removed 
and  exposed  to  the  air.  After  a  seemingly 
endless  repetition  of  this  operation,  the 
beans  are  spread  out  upon  blankets  in  the 
open  air,  when  the  sun  gives  them  a  new 
color.  Gradually  they  change  from  a 
yellowish  tinge  to  a  rich  brown,  running 
almost  to  black. 

The  curer  goes  over  his  beans  with  a 
watchful  eye,  using  wisdom  born  of  ex- 
perience, to  determine  the  exact  length  of 
time  required  to  properly  cure  each  in- 
dividual bean.  The  curing  cannot  be  done 
in  bulk  in  a  hap-hazard  way,  but  each 
separate    bean    must    be    given    constant 

(Protected  by  Copyright,  Lyman  D.  Morse. 1 


scrutiny.  When  the  curing  is  finished,  the 
beans  have  been  reduced  to  about  one- 
seventh  their  original  weight. 

The  vanilla  bean  rapidly  deteriorates  in 
value  when  improperly  cured.  It  is  pretty 
sure  to  become  mouldy,  even  before  it  can 
be  sent  out  of  Mexico.  It  is  a  very  doubt- 
ful speculation  for  any  one  not  thoroughly 
familiar  with  the  process  of  curing  to  invest 
his  money  in  vanilla.  Many  inexperienced 
Americans  have  gone  down  into  Mexico  to 
speculate  in  the  fragrant  beans,  and  have 
come  back  much  wiser  but  much  poorer  in 
purse. 

Burnett's  vanilla  extract  is  the  joint  prod- 
uct of  knowledge,  honesty  and  capital.  The 
one  concern  which  stands  foremost  and 
highest  in  the  manufacture  of  Extracts  is  the 
Joseph  Burnett  Company  of  Boston,  Mass. 
Formorethanhalf  a  century  Burnett's  vanilla 
extract  has  had  a  conspicuous  place  in  all 
the  better  class  of  stores  throughout  the 
world.  The  Company  has  stood  firm  and 
steadfast  against  the  tendency  of  the  times 
to  reduce  qualities  by  adulteration  so  the 
price  might  also  be  reduced.  Burnett's 
Extracts  are  to-day,  as  they  always  have 
been,  the  best  and  purest.  Their  excellence 
proceeds  from  a  technical  knowledge  of  the 
vanilla  bean  and  also  from  upright  business 

principles.  (  To  be  continued.) 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Swan's  Down 
Baking  Powder 


COMPLETE    INDEX. 


11  i 


■  ll&irf^^ 


eJ 


Orinda 
Kauqhphy. 


40c. 

per  pound. 

A  blend  of 
two  of  the 
finest  coffees 
produced 
in   the    world. 


Veuve 
Chaffard 


PURE 


Olive  Oil. 

IN    HONEST    BOTTLES. 


S.  S.  Pierce  Co. 

BOSTON.  BR00KLINE. 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention 


PAGE 

After-Breakfast  Chat 229 

Annual  Report  of  Boston  Cooking-School 

Corporation 226 

East  India  Ways  with    American  Vege- 
tables      2°7 

Editorials 226~7 

Essentials  and  Non-essentials     .     .     .     .223 

In  Grandmother's  Days 213 

In  Reference  to  Economical  Menus     .     .   233 
In  Reference  to  Seasonable  Menus      .     .   235 

Koumiss 220 

Menus,  Economical,  Lenten 231 

Menus,  Seasonable •     •   232 

News  and  Notes 258 

Selected  Verse 225 

Some  Duties  of  a  Waitress 210 

The  Sunshine  Laundry 218 

Queries  and  Answers:  — 

Alphabet  Paste 256 

Angel  Cakelets 25r 

Aspic  and  Meat  Glaze 257 

Beard  of  Oysters 257 

Berwick  Sponge  Cake 25T 

Boiled  Frosting 249 

Broiled  Puffballs 255 

Browned  Butter,  Beurre  Noir      .     .     .   247 

Candied  Violets 254 

Cheese  Mixture  for  Sandwiches  .     .     .   252 

Chocolate  Sauce 252 

Chocolate  Sponge  Cake 254 

Chocolate  (dark)  Layer  Cake      .      .     .   248 

Chou  Paste 248 

Coffee  at  Dinner,  to  serve       .     .     .     .   253 

Consomme  Julienne 256 

Confectioners'  Frosting 249 

Cookies    ' 252 

Cookies,  Peanut 25T 

Creamed  Chicken  and  Oysters    .     .     .251 

Cream-Cheese  Balls 2Sl 

Dredging  Roasts,  etc 2Sl 

Hermits,  Soft 254 

Heart  Eclairs 24» 

How  Beat  Eggs  for  Custards       .     .     .250 

How  Can  Mushrooms 254 

How  Serve  a  Vol-au-vent 257 

How  Preserve  Cranberries       .      .      .      .256 
How  Shred  Straight  Lettuce  .     .      .     .255 

How  to  Unmould  Jelly 256 

Leathery  Rarebits 247 

Lettuce  Nests  and  Hearts 255 

Lemon  Pie,  with  Meringue     .      .     .     .   252 

Lemon  Pie,  A  Cheap 252 

Marshmallow  Frosting 24° 

Melted  Butter  or  Lard  in  Pastry       .      .    253 

Milk  Frosting 249 

Milk  or  Water  in  Cake 25b 

Mushroom  Pie 255 

(Continued  over.) 

The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


OYSTER    SALAD    IN    ICE    BOWL. 

Fill  a  large  charlotte-russe  mould  with  water  and  let  freeze 
solid  ;  with  a  hot  natiron  melt  out  the  centre  of  the  ice  so  as  to 
form  a  bowl,  and  line  this  with  lettuce  leaves.  Scald  a  pint  of 
oysters  ;  when  they  look  plump  drain  and  cool.  When  ready 
to  serve,  dress  the  oysters  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  arrange 
in  the  ice  bowl  alternately  with  a  pint  of  sliced  cabbage  that  has 
been  chilled  in  ice  water,  dried,  and  dressed  with  mayonnaise. 
Set  the  bowl  upon  a  folded  napkin,  and  garnish  with  parsley  and 
stuffed  olives. 


s 


s 


THE 


Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Vol.  IV. 


FEBRUARY  AND  MARCH,   1900. 


No.  5, 


SOME  EAST  INDIAN  WAYS  WITH  AMERICAN  VEGETABLES. 

By  Helen  Campbell. 


"  The  American  mind  is  a  very  sin- 
gular thing,"  said  the  Prophet,  as  he 
gazed  reflectively  over  the  heads  of  his 
audience  of  two,  who,  in  turn,  were 
silent,  knowing  that  more  would  follow. 

"  It  could  naturally  be  said,"  he 
pursued,  in  the  same  tone,  after  a  long 
pause  given  apparently  to  analysis, 
"  that  the  American  temperament  would 
demand  in  its  dishes  a  flavor,  a  savor, 
that  would  meet  every  side  of  so  com- 
plex a  people.  But  what  do  I  find  on 
my  third  visit  to  them  ?  More  knowl- 
edge of  living  ?  Yes  :  but  also  there  is 
rising  —  yea,  has  risen  —  a  great  army 
of  devitalizors  of  thought ;  they  who 
would  abolish  flavor  and  savor.  These 
are  they  who  know  not  why  sweet 
herbs  grow,  or  why  the  Master  of  life 
created  them  —  above  all,  the  red  pep- 
per. To  what  else  does  this  liver,  that 
no  physician  clearly  understands,  re- 
spond? What  else  can  so  help  the 
mystery  of  assimilation,  and  thus  the 
quickening  of  the  spirit  that  true 
food  is  meant  to  bring?  Ah,  there  is 
much  to  learn  !  I  suffer  from  your 
methods.  Great  heavens,  -what  flat- 
ness !  One  perishes  for  the  sense  of 
life  in  the  plat  that  must  mean  the 
day's    work,    yet    defrauds    it    of    the 


subtle  force  we  know  and  you  do  not." 

"What  would  you  have  ?  "  my  friend 
inquired. 

"  New  brain  cells,  it  may  be,  since 
the  old  ones  seem  to  have  no  power  to 
study  the  law  and  mission  of  savor." 

"  But  you  are  absolutely  a  vegeta- 
rian ?  That  means  renunciation  of 
flavor,  as  I  understand  it." 

"  Ah !  "  said  the  Prophet,  with  a 
gesture  of  despair,  "so  it  is  under- 
stood. I  am  surely,  and  forever,  what 
you  call  a  vegetarian.  But  am  I  there- 
fore a  fool  ?  It  is  to  be  hoped  not.  I 
live,  and  am  happy.  I  work,  I  am 
strong ;  but  I  have  studied.  I  see  the 
meaning  and  the  law  of  combinations. 
Yet,  what  use,  when  with  you  it  is  not 
an  art,  but  something  left  to  the  lowest 
intelligence.  You  eat  too  much.  You 
do  not  eat  enough.  Unravel  that  par- 
adox and  you  have  the  beginning  of 
health." 

The  Prophet  sighed  mournfully,  then 
smiled  hopefully,  his  radiant  cheerful- 
ness conquering  the  gloom  attendant 
upon  the  consideration  of  American 
obtuseness. 

This  friend  of  my  friends  I  had  but 
just  met,  but  his  singular  story  had 
long  been  a  familiar  one.     An  English 


208 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


child,  born  in  India,  his  parents  had 
perished  in  an  epidemic  of  cholera,  and 
his  ayah,  a  devoted  nurse,  had,  in  his 
infancy,  almost,  given  him  into  the 
hands  of  the  priests  of  a  Buddhist 
temple.  Here,  till  fourteen,  he  had 
been  brought  up  in  their  faith  and 
ceremonies ;  his  English  birth  was 
clearly  to  be  seen  in  the  blue  eyes  and 
fair,  waving  hair,  but  his  tongue  knew 
only  Hindoo  speech.  Then  English 
relatives  traced  him  out,  a  fortune  being 
in  question,  and  for  ten  years  had  their 
way,  Eton  and  Oxford  seeking  to  natu- 
ralize and  train  him.  Travel  and  years 
on  the  Continent,  and  in  its  centres, 
followed :  but  always  he  remained  a 
student,  a  delver  into  mysteries,  with 
a  spiritual  perception  so  keen  and  fine 
that  the  heart  of  a  loving  child  still 
stirred  within  him;  and  his  chief  thought 
was  always  a  better  life  for  all  men.  A 
man  of  superb  physique,  joyous  by 
nature,  strong  in  purpose,  eager  to 
learn  and  eager  to  impart,  there  was 
fascination,  not  only  in  listening  to 
him,  but  in  trying  the  experiments  he 
suggested.  Under  the  roof  which  at 
present  covered  us,  he  came  and  went 
freely,  adored  by  the  son  and  daughter 
of  the  house  no  less  than  by  the  elders, 
and  giving  to  each  and  all  strange  new 
thoughts  on  many  subjects. 

"  See  now,"  he  said  presently,  draw- 
ing a  book  from  his  pocket.  "This 
was  given  me  yesterday,  —  a  vegetarian 
cook-book,  and  written  by,  they  say  to 
me,  a  wise  physician.  I  open,  as  it 
chances,  to  the  squash,  —  a  soft-shell 
squash  that  shall  be  baked.  Ah ! 
Inexpressible  !  Nut  butter  is  allowed 
—  a  little.  Where  are  the  savory  herbs 
to  counteract  the  native  weakness  of 
this  esculent?  The  good  physician 
knows  them  not.     Now  place  me  face 


to  face  with  that  squash.  Out  of  what 
I  combine  with  it  shall  grow  a  central 
plat, —  a  dish  so  hunger-compelling,  so 
pleasing  to  the  eye,  it  may  well  serve 
for  what  that  master  of  thought,  Ed- 
ward Carpenter,  of  England,  so  cries 
out —  for  what  all  thinkers  cry  also.  It 
.  is  simplification  of  living  they  want, 
with  no  sacrifice  of  beauty.  I  know 
his  thesis  by  heart.  I  say  these  words 
now  :  '  Would  it  not  be  better  to  have 
just  one  dish,  combining  in  itself  all 
needful  qualities  of  nutrition  and  tasti- 
ness,  with,  perhaps,  a  few  satellite  plat- 
ters around  for  adjuncts  or  offsets,  that 
might  seem  appropriate  ?  This  cen- 
tral dish,  the  only  one  requiring  imme- 
diate cookery, —  say  some  golden-orbed, 
substantial  omelet,  or  vast  vegetable 
pie,  or  savory  and  nutritious  soup,  or 
solid  expanse  of  macaroni  and  cheese, 
or  steaming  mountain  of  rice  sur- 
rounded by  stewed  fruit,  —  would  rep- 
resent the  sun  or  central  fire  of  our 
system ;  while  around  it,  in  planetary 
order,  would  circle  such  other  useful 
and  inexpensive  viands  as  would  give 
the  housewife  the  minimum  of  trouble 
to  provide, —  chunks  of  bread  and 
cheese,  figs,  raisins,  oatmeal  cakes, 
fresh  fruit,'  or  what  not.'  There  is 
more  but  I  say  it  not." 

"  Could  you  really  bake  the  squash 
yourself  ?  "  inquired  the  hostess,  with 
astonished  eyes. 

"  But  surely.     Try  me  and  see." 

Thus  it  happened  that  not  only 
squash  but  sundry  other  vegetables 
were  handled  in  ways  unheard  of  be- 
fore, and  not  to  be  found  in  any  cook- 
ery book  at  present  in  existence,  though 
some  hint  of  their  nature  enters  into 
stray  rules  for  Indian  curries. 

"  But  there  are  so  many  things,  such 
un-English    combinations,"    said    our 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


209 


hostess,  as  she  took  down  a  form  for 
the  handling  of  the  squash  in  ques- 
tion, "  it  would  take  so  long  to  pre- 
pare." 

"  That  makes  no  difference  where 
service  is  as  cheap  and  as  plenty  as 
in  India.  But  here,  your  wonderful 
American  mind  has  made  an  invention 
that  is  two  Hindoos  in  one, —  your 
'  grinder  '  that  you  screw  to  the  table, 
and,  presto  !  all  is  through  !  I  will  see 
it  now." 

Half  an  hour  later,  the  Prophet,  in 
a  long  white  apron,  his  blue  eyes  shin- 
ing, his  face  glowing  with  energy  and 
enthusiasm,  ground  away  delightedly, 
from  the  mass  of  apparent  incongrui- 
ties surrounding  him. 

"  From  heterogeneity  to  homogene- 
ity," he  murmured,  as  mint,  sage,  pep- 
pers, cocoanut,  and  all  the  rest,  went 
into  the  maw  of  the  grinder,  and 
emerged  a  paste.  "  It  is  the  varying 
of  the  proportions  that  alters  the  gene- 
ral flavor.  I  make  you  from  these 
things  fifty  dishes,  and  each  one  dis- 
tinct in  quality.  But  to  tell  you  all 
the  law  might  make  a  book,  and  there 
are  too  many  books.  We  will  have 
no  more." 

As  he  talked  he  worked ;  and  this  is 
the  thing  that  very  shortly  went  into 
the  oven  of  the  gas  range, —  a  "bread 
oven," —  in  which  it  was  to  remain  till 
tender,  this  depending  on  the  quality 
of  the  squash,  but  meaning  not  less 
than  an  hour  :  — 

Baked  Squash. —  Wash,  cut  in  halves, 
clean,  and  trim  a  soft -shell  squash. 
For  filling,  prepare  three  cups  of  fresh 
bread  crumbs  and  half  a  cocoanut, 
ground.  Grind  also  half  a  dozen  green 
peppers  from  which  seeds  and  strings 
have  been  removed,  three  onions  of 
medium  size,   celery   enough  to  make 


one  pint,  and  one  tablespoonful,  each, 
of  mint  and  sage.  Add  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Beat  three  eggs  and  add  to 
one  pint  of  milk,  mixing  all  thoroughly 
together.  Fill  the  halves  of  the  squash, 
and  pour  over  each  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter.  Bake  till  tender 
and  brown. 

"Now,"  said  the  Prophet,  with  a 
sigh  of  relief  as  the  oven  received  it, 
"that  is  food  so  satisfying  that,  if  I 
did  not  leave  you  to-morrow,  I  would 
make  no  other  thing.  But  now  I  make 
a — I  know  not  what  to  say.  You 
shall  see.  It  is  again  a  combination 
of  infinite  possibilities.  An  omelet  it 
may  be.     Watch." 

We  watched,  and  this  is  the  evolu- 
tion :  — 

Vegetable  Omelet. —  Two  onions,  one 
tablespoonful,  each,  of  parsley  and 
mint,  three  of  celery,  four  small  red 
peppers,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
speck  of  curry  powder.  Melt  in  a  fry- 
ing-pan a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
heat  the  mixture,  stirring  some  five 
minutes.  Add  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and 
heat,  then  four  or  five  eggs,  one  by 
one.  Lastly,  add  half  a  cup  of  rich 
cheese,  cut  fine,  and  a  pint  of  hot 
cooked  rice,  and  serve  very  hot.  Four 
tomatoes  are  sometimes  added,  and  a 
sour  apple  can  also  be  used,  all  cut 
fine.  There  is  also  another  variety : 
Six  tomatoes,  four  green  peppers,  an 
onion,  and  the  sweet  herbs  are  used, 
the  cheese  added  at  the  end,  and  the 
whole  served  in  a  rice  border. 

"With  this  must  go  a  salad  of  such 
order  as  you  will,"  said  the  Prophet, 
as  he  stirred  his  compound.  "  But 
avoid  the  mayonnaise,  save  on  occa- 
sion. It  is  too  heavy  where  real  food 
has  been  eaten.  I  give  you  now  a 
mixed  salad,  good  enough  in    itself  to 


2  IO 


THE  BOSTON  C^Ja'/NG-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


make  a  meal.  With  crusty  bread  of 
the  whole  wheat,  the  man  who  eats  this 
is  well  fed,  and  there  is  always  new 
combinations  to  try.  More  grinding  ? 
Yes  :  but  this  time  it  shall  not  be  set 
to  paste,  but  to  small  dice;  so  you 
may  know  what  you  eat,  all  save  the 
cocoanut.  That  is  better  in  paste,  as 
you  call  it." 

Thus  emerged  the  final  dish,  and 
the  Prophet  went  out  himself  to  gather 
the  nasturtium  blossoms  with  which  he 
garnished  it. 


Benares  Salad. —  Half  a  cocoanut, 
two  apples,  a  cup  of  celery,  half  a 
bunch  of  parsley,  two  onions,  three  red 
peppers  (the  little  bird's-eye  ones). 
Grind  all  together.  Mix  with  a  French 
dressing,  using  lemon  juice  instead  of 
vinegar,  and  serve  in  a  bed  of  lettuce 
leaves.  This  filling  may  also  be  used 
for  tomatoes,  peeled  and  chilled,  with 
the  portion  taken  out,  chopped,  and 
mixed  with  the  filling. 

This  is  a  delicious  salad,  and,  it  may 
be  added,  the  other  dishes  are  equally  so. 


SOME    DUTIES    OF    A   WAITRESS. 

By  Catherine  J.  Coolidge,  Drexel  Institute. 
PART  II. 


Bread. 

When  breadsticks  are  not  more  than 
three-fourths  an  inch  in  diameter,  they 
may  be  tied  with  "  baby  "  ribbon  in 
bundles  of  three,  and  laid  on  the  nap- 
kin at  each  cover.  If  larger  ones  are 
made,  only  one  should  be  laid  on  the 
napkin,  and  the  remainder,  placed  in 
a  long,  narrow  dish,  should  be  passed 
when  needed  at  the  left  of  each  guest. 

Bread  for  luncheon  and  breakfast 
should  be  cut  from  one-fourth  to  one- 
third  an  inch  thick,  then  cut  in  halves 
from  top  to  bottom.  Pile  evenly  on  a 
plate  with  the  cut  edges  close  together. 
Place  only  six  or  eight  layers  on  a 
plate. 

Dinner  bread  should  be  thicker  than 
that  used  for  breakfast  and  luncheon. 
Cut  slices  of  bread  three-fourths  an 
inch  thick  and  trim  them  until  they 
are  three  and  a  half  by  three  and  a 
half  inches.     Cut  in   halves   and  place 


a  piece  in  the  folds  of  each  napkin. 
If  the  bread  must  be  cut  long  before 
serving,  it  may  be  kept  fresh  by  cov- 
ering with  a  napkin  that  has  been 
dipped  in  water  and  wrung  nearly  dry. 
Butter. 

In  making  butter  balls  and  rolls,  cut 
the  butter  into  pieces  of  equal  size  and 
convenient  for  serving,  Place  them  in 
ice  water  to  chill.  When  the  butter  is 
hard,  dip  the  paddles  in  hot  water,  then 
in  ice  water.  Hold  a  paddle  firmly  in 
the  left  hand,  and  for  butter  balls  roll 
each  piece  with  the  right  paddle  until 
round.  If  the  butter  sticks  to  the 
paddles,  it  should  be  chilled  longer. 
The  paddles  must  be  kept  free  from 
butter  by  dipping  them  in  hot  water, 
then  in  ice  water. 

Another  pleasing  form  in  which  to 
serve  butter  is  that  of  a  thin  roll. 
Make  butter  balls  first  and  then  flatten 
each   ball   by   quick,  sharp   strokes   of 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCflOOL   MAGAZINE. 


211 


the  paddles,  until  it  is  one-eighth  an 
inch  thick.  Lift  one  edge  of  the  but- 
ter with  the  paddle  and  roll  it  lightly 
over  until  the  edges  lap. 

Slici?ig  Cold  Meats. 

The  waitress  should  take  particular 
care  of  the  carving-knives.  If  they 
could  be  kept  as  sharp  as  butchers' 
knives,  carving  would  be  a  simpler 
matter.  A  reliable-looking  butcher  re- 
marked once  that  he  never  cleansed 
his  knives  with  water,  because  it  ruined 
the  temper  of  the  steel.  The  knives 
may  be  cleansed  with  soft  paper,  and, 
if  properly  used,  it  will  make  them 
perfectly  clean.  Several  changes  of 
paper  should  be  used,  and  especial 
care  taken  to  clean  the  portion  of  the 
blade  near  the  handle.  In  careless 
hands  this  method  would  prove  a  very 
untidy  one. 

Carving-knives  should  be  put  away 
so  that  the  edges  may  not  touch  one 
another.  Returning  them  to  their  in- 
dividual cases  is  the  safest  method. 
When  the  edges  become  so  dull  that 
sharpening  on  the  steel  is  not  effective, 
they  should  be  taken  to  a  reliable  me- 
chanic to  be  ground. 

A  very  sharp  knife  with  a  thin  blade 
should  be  used  for  slicing  cold  meats. 
Slice  the  meat  across  the  grain  as  thinly 
as  possible  without  being  thin  enough 
to  break.  Remove  superfluous  fat  and 
all  gristle. 

Arrange  the  slices  neatly  on  a  plat- 
ter and  garnish  with  parsley,  celery 
tips,  or  watercress. 

Coffee. 

It  is  extremely  difficult  for  the  house- 
keeper to  have  her  coffee  prepared  by 
some  one  else  with  satisfactory  results. 
Even  the  Emperor  of  Germany  is  re- 
ported as  having  been  dissatisfied  with 
the   product  of    his    cook ;     finally   he 


went  to  the  kitchen  himself  to  instruct 
this  same  cook  in  the  art  of  coffee- 
making. 

When  we  can  make  cook  and  wait- 
resses realize  the  importance  of  accu- 
rate measurements,  clean  coffee-pots 
and  freshly,  actually  boiling  water,  there 
will  be  hope  for  better  results.  Coffee 
beans  should  be  mixed  in  the  propor- 
tion of  two-thirds  Java  and  one-third 
Mocha.  Coffee  may  be  prepared  by 
one  of  two  methods,  —  either  by  filter- 
ing or  boiling. 

Filtered  coffee  can  be  recommended 
for  two  reasons.  It  is  quickly  and 
easily  made,  and,  furthermore,  does 
not  (according  to  the  analyses  of  a 
certain  good  chemist)  contain  nearly 
so  large  a  proportion  of  caffeine  (stim- 
ulating alkaloid)  as  boiled  coffee. 

On  the  other  hand,  boiled  coffee 
contains  nearly  all  the  caffeine  pres- 
ent in  the  coffee  bean ;  but  to  many 
minds  boiled  coffee  has  a  superior 
flavor.  It  may  be  that  its  higher  stim- 
ulating power  makes  it  the  greater 
favorite,  though  it  be  more  injurious  to 
the  body.  It  is  hoped  the  day  is  near 
when  our  people  will  live  on  their 
natural  energies  and  not  depend  on 
the  prop  of  such  stimulants. 

FILTERED-   COFFEE, 
i   cup  of  coffee. 
6  cups  of  boiling  water. 

The  coffee  should  be  ground  to  the 
fineness  of  granulated  cornmeal ;  if 
powdered,  it  will  not  make  clear  coffee. 
Place  the  ground  coffee  in  a  bag  or 
receiver  of  a  warm  "filter"  coffee-pot, 
and  pour  the  boiling  water  over  it.  A 
stronger  coffee  may  be  made  by  pour- 
ing the  liquid  through  a  second  time, 
but  the  coffee  is  not  so  fine  in  flavor. 
This  is  the  more  economical  way  of 
preparing  it. 


212 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


Another  method  of  making  filtered 
coffee,  and  one  which  has  certain  ad- 
vantages, is  as  follows :  Purchase  at 
any  chemist's  supply  house  a  glass 
funnel  with  a  diameter  from  four  to 
six  inches,  according  to  the  capacity 
desired.  The  prices  range  from  about 
thirty  to  forty  cents.  Buy  also  a  package 
of  chemists'  filter  paper  (large  enough 
to  fill  the  funnel)  ;  this  costs  about 
fifty  cents  per  one  hundred  sheets,  or 
probably  less  in  larger  quantities.  Fold 
a  sheet  of  filter  paper,  fit  it  into  the 
funnel  so  it  touches  the  glass  on  all 
sides,  and  as  near  the  bottom  as  pos- 
sible. Work  carefully  to  avoid  break- 
ing the  paper.  Do  not  touch  it  during 
the  process  of  coffee-making,  as  it 
breaks  very  easily  when  wet.  Place 
the  fine-ground  coffee  in  the  filter 
paper,  pour  the  boiling  water  slowly 
over  it,  and  let  it  drip  through  into  a 
hot  coffee-pot.  If  only  one  cup  of 
coffee  is  being  made,  let  it  drip  into  a 
warm  coffee-cup.  The  smaller  the 
quantity  of  coffee,  the  greater  should 
be  the  precaution  to  keep  it  hot. 
When  the  coffee  is  made,  place  it 
where  it  will  keep  hot ;  take  out  the 
filter  paper  and  burn  it,  then  wash  the 
funnel  and  stand  it  upside  down  to 
dry.  To  make  this  coffee  successfully, 
the  water  must  be  actually  boiling  be- 
fore pouring  it  over  the  coffee.  The 
filter  paper  is  chemically  pure  and  will 
in  no  way  affect  the  flavor  of  the  coffee. 
This  coffee-pot  is  easily  cleansed,  and 
there  can  be  no  possible  action  of  tan- 
nin on  any  surrounding  material. 

BOILED    COFFEE. 

It  may  be  well  to  remind  the  reader 
that  a  tin  coffee-pot  should  never  be 
used.  If  tin  is  used,  there  is  every 
opportunity  for  tannic  acid  to  act  upon 
it  and  produce  a  poisonous  compound. 


i   cup  of  coarsely  ground  coffee. 

White  of  i  egg. 

6  cups  of  boiling  water. 

3^  a  cup  of  cold  water. 

Wash  the  egg,  and  separate  the  yolk 
from  the  white.  Put  the  coffee  into  a 
warm  coffee-pot,  add  the  white  of  egg, 
the  crushed  shell,  and  sufficient  cold 
water  to  dampen  the  coffee.  Add  the 
boiling  water ;  stop  the  spout  of  the 
coffee-pot  with  soft  paper  or  a  cork. 
Boil  the  coffee  five  minutes.  Draw  the 
pot  to  the  back  of  the  stove,  add  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  let  the 
coffee  stand  ten  minutes.  Pour  out 
half  a  cup  and  return  it  to  the  coffee- 
pot ;  this  process  removes  any  grounds 
which  may  be  lodged  in  the  spout. 

Brewers'  isinglass  or  shells  may  be 
substituted  for  white  of  egg ;  but  the 
egg  gives  a  peculiar,  delicious  quality 
that  cannot  be  obtained  with  the  other 
clearers.  Coffee  should  be  served  with 
cream,  or  hot  milk,  and  cut  loaf  sugar. 
Tea. 

The  amount  of  tea  to  be  used  to  a 
cup  of  boiling  water  varies  according 
to  the  kind  of  tea.  For  instance,  Cey- 
lon, India,  or  English  breakfast  tea  re- 
quires only  two-thirds  a  level  teaspoon- 
ful  to  one  cup  of  water  ;  while  Oolong 
requires  two  teaspoonfuls  to  one  cup 
of  water.  Heat  the  teapot  and  place 
the  tea  in  it.  Pour  the  fresh-boiling 
water  over  the  tea  and  place  the  teapot 
on  the  shelf  at  the  back  of  the  stove. 
It  should  steep  five  minutes.  Serve 
with  milk  or  thin-sliced  lemon. 
Chocolate. 

2  cups  of  scalded  milk. 

2  ounces  (squares)  of  chocolate. 

2  cups  of  boiling  water. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Cut  the  chocolate  into  several  pieces 
and  put  it  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler. 
When    the    chocolate    melts,    add    the 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


213 


water  gradually ;  beat  until  smooth 
and  allow  it  to  thicken  before  adding 
more  water.  When  all  the  water  is  in, 
add  the  sugar ;  remove  the  top  of  the 
double  boiler,  and  cook  the  chocolate 
directly  over  the  heat.  When  it  reaches 
the  boiling-point,  add  the  hot  milk,  and 
cook  over  hot  water  from  fifteen  min- 
utes to  an  hour.  For  reception  choco- 
late, use  three  or  four  ounces  of 
chocolate,  according  to  the  richness 
desired,  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  just  before  serving.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Cocoa. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  cocoa. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
2  cups  of  boiling  water. 

2  cups  of  scalded  milk. 

Scald  the  milk  and  put  it  in  a 
pitcher  where  it  will  keep  hot.  Mix  the 
cocoa  and  sugar  and  put  in  the  upper 


part  of  a  double  boiler.  Add  the 
boiling  water  gradually,  and  cook  the 
mixture  directly  over  the  heat,  until  it 
boils.  Add  the  hot  milk  and  let  cook 
over  hot  water  from  fifteen  minutes  to 
one  hour.  It  should  cook  slowly,  or 
the  milk  will  become  indigestible. 
Chocolate  and  cocoa  contain  starch, 
therefore  they  require  long  cooking. 
Iced  Tea. 

Make  weak  Ceylon  or  India  tea, 
sweeten  it,  and  set  in  the  refrigerator 
to  chill.  It  should  be  made  several 
hours  before  serving.  Just  before 
serving,  add  strained  lemon  juice  to 
taste,  and  serve  a  thin  slice  of  lemon 
in  each  glass. 

The  flavor  is  considered  finer,  when 
the  tea  is  chilled  quickly  —  that  is, 
poured  into  glasses  half  full  of  cracked 
ice.  This  is  objectionable,  unless  pure 
artificial  ice  can  be  obtained. 


IN    GRANDMOTHER'S    DAYS. 

By  Belle  Spalding. 


"  Well,  say  what  you  will,  there  is 
nothing  nowadays  like  the  good  old- 
fashioned  stewed  chicken  we  used  to 
have  fifty  years  ago  !  " 

So  spoke  Uncle  Obed,  after  having 
vainly  tried  to  find  something  satisfy- 
ing in  the  baked  chickens,  which  had 
been  the  piece  de  resistance  at  the  family 
dinner. 

What  ailed  those  chickens  ?  They 
were  brown,  but  not  crisp ;  tender, 
but  not  juicy ;  seasoned,  but'  not  well 
flavored.  Of  course,  we  all  know  that 
you  must  "  first  catch  your  hare  ;"  and 
alas  !  those  chickens   of  grandmother 


did  have  a  flavor  rarely  to  be  bought 
at  the  regular  markets.  Only  the  con- 
scientious dealer  in  fresh  home  prod- 
uce can  furnish  us  with  that;  and  even 
then  one  must  have  some  of  grand- 
mother's "  gumption,"  and  know  how 
to  ensure  the  wholesome,  toothsome 
taste  of  those  stewed  chickens  of  "old 
times." 

The  poor  little  shrunken  bipeds,  from 
which  Uncle  Obed  had  been  trying  to 
extract  something  like  the  old-time 
flavor,  had  been  daintily  served,  resting 
upon  a  bed  of  fragrant  green,  and 
gaily    bedecked    with    crimped  -  paper 


2I4 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


pantalets,  crowns,  and  what  not,  on  a 
most  approved  shape  of  china,  and 
dissected  with  silver-mounted  carvers, 
by  a  genial  host,  who  took  great  pains 
to  serve  them  a  la  mode.  Uncle  Obed's 
remark  acted  something  like  a  bomb- 
shell upon  the  assembled  family,  but 
the  imperturbable  man  maintained  his 
ground. 

As  I  hold  something  of  the  same 
opinion  as  the  old-fashioned  uncle,  I 
will  venture  to  give  some  hints  about 
the  old  New  England  cooking,  of  which 
so  many  unkind  things  have  been  said, 
that  it  seems  almost  a  synonyme  for 
burnt  meat,  sour  bread,  greasy  dough- 
nuts, and  soggy  pie  crust. 

Not  so,  my  friends  !  There  is  an- 
other side  to  the  matter  that  should 
be  fostered  and  handed  down  through 
the  generations.  Certainly,  in  these 
days,  no  one  believes  that  every  woman 
can  be  a  good  cook,  no  more  than  that 
every  man  can  be  a  good  carpenter ; 
and  the  same  was  true  in  our  grand- 
mothers' days.  So  much  the  worse 
for  those  who  think  because  a  human 
being  is  a  female  she  must  necessarily 
be  a  good  cook.  —  But,  to  return  to 
the  chickens.  To  be  very  good,  they 
should  be  young ;  yet  this  can  be  said 
in  favor  of  the  stew :  you  can  cook  an 
old  fowl  a  long  time,  by  simmering, 
until  it  is  as  tender  as  a  chicken,  and 
the  uninitiated  won't  find  you  out. 

One  is  apt  to  presuppose  that  every 
one  knows  how  to  clean  a  chicken. 
Ah  !  we  know  better.  I  don't  mean  the 
first  drawing ;  for  that  can  be  done  at 
the  market,  or  by  the  friendly  vender 
of  home  produce,  whom  I  should  pat- 
ronize, if  possible  :  I  am  speaking  of 
the  preparation  for  the  pot.  Yes :  it 
used  to  be  stewed  in  an  ugly  iron  pot 
(ugly  to   wash).     Perhaps   that   added 


something  to  the  flavor,  when  the  pot 
had  been  so  well  seasoned  by  years  of 
simmering  concoctions  that  it  imparted 
an  aroma  all  its  own.  Lacking  the 
old  time-honored  black  pot,  we  must 
take,  per  force,  a  porcelain-lined  or 
granite  kettle.  After  singeing  the 
chicken  remove  the  giblets,  and  clean 
the  inside  thoroughly,  and  don't  leave 
any  of  the  red  meat  —  lights,  or  what- 
ever you  call  it  (grandmother  used  to 
call  it  "  the  soul  "  !)  —  in  the  ribs,  and 
remember  to  cut  out  the  oil-bottle.  If 
you  think  there  is  no  need  of  mention- 
ing that,  let  me  tell  you  that  it  rarely 
is  removed !  Even  those  aforesaid 
decorated  "  biddies  "  had  their  oil-bot- 
tles baked.  But  the  hint  should  be 
enough,  and  I  must  hasten,  or  those 
chickens  will  never  be  cooked  a  la 
grand  mere.  Would  it  not  be,  natu- 
rally, next  in  order  to  separate  the  wing 
tips  from  the  main  wing  ?  Never  mind 
the  order,  so  that  the  oil-bottle  be  not 
forgotten  ;  the  wings'  tips  just  severed 
help  out  the  stew,  but  are  good  for 
nothing  at  the  table.  Cut  the  neck  off 
as  low  down  as  possible  ;  disjoint  the 
wings  and  legs  from  the  body,  the 
drumstick  from  the  second  joint,  the 
breastbone  from  the  back ;  pull  away 
all  the  cords  and  stringy,  slimy  sub- 
stance you  can,  leaving  the  meat  un- 
broken ;  cut  away  the  fat,  but  be  care- 
ful not  to  tear  off  the  skin.  There  are 
some  deluded  beings  who  take  unto 
themselves  great  airs,  for  skinning 
chickens  before  they  are  cooked.  The 
skin  should  be  left  as  unbroken  as  pos- 
sible ;  it  keeps  in  the  juices,  and  adds 
to  the  flavor.  Wash  the  chicken  care- 
fully, piece  by  piece ;  do  not  leave  it 
soaking  in  water.  Strange  how  we 
have  to  mention  all  these  points,  that 
we  feel  one  should  be  "born  knowing;" 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


215 


but  only  last  week  I  found  the  chicken 
left  to  soak  in  water  hours  before  it 
was  to  be  cooked.  Lay  the  large  bones 
into  the  pot  first ;  cover  the  whole  with 
hot  water,  and  let  simmer  until  tender. 
An  hour  and  a  half  should  suffice  to 
cook  a  prime  chicken  ;  after  that,  the 
time  must  depend  upon  the  age.  Bet- 
ter leave  plenty  of  time,  for  the  stew 
will  not  be  injured  by  standing,  if  it 
should  become  tender  sooner  than  you 
expect.  It  takes  an  expert  to  tell  the 
age  of  a  fowl,  as  there  is  a  way  of  soft- 
ening the  telltale  breastbone  of  an 
aged  cockerel,  so  that,  when  stripped 
of  his  plumage,  he  may  deceive  the 
most  vigilant. 

As  soon  as  the  stew  begins  to  cook, 
the  scum  that  will  rise  should  be  taken 
off,  and  as  the  fat  comes  to  the  top  it 
should  be  removed  ;  while  it  will  give 
the  stew  an  unpleasant  taste,  it  is  very 
nice  (after  being  clarified  with  the  fat 
which  has  been  cut  off)  to  use  in  any 
way  that  you  would  use  butter.  Do 
not  let  the  chicken  cook  until  the  flesh 
falls  from  the  bones.  Cook  slowly,  as 
rapid  boiling  will  harden  even  tender 
meat.  It  should  be  thoroughly  cooked, 
and  still  keep  its  shape.  When  it  is 
becoming  tender  add  salt  and  a  little 
pepper. 

This  will  be  about  the  right  time 
to  mix  the  "  cream-o'-tartar  "  or  sour- 
milk  biscuit.  Rub  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  into 
a  pint  of  sifted  pastry  flour.  Put  an 
even  teaspoonful  of  soda  (or  "pearl- 
ash,"  I  should  say)  into  one  cup  of 
sour  milk ;  stir  until  it  is  in  fine  bub- 
bles, then  mix  with  the  flour,  as  quickly 
as  possible.  The  dough  should  be  as 
soft  as  it  can  be  handled.  Roll  very 
lightly,  and  cut  into  rounds  with  a 
small  biscuit-cutter  (grandmother  used 


the  top  of  the  dredging-box)  ;  bake  ten 
minutes,  or  possibly  fifteen,  in  a  very 
hot  oven.  If  you  do  not  have  sour 
milk,  use  sweet  milk,  and  add  two 
small  teaspoonfuls  of  cream-of-tartar  to 
the  flour,  also  the  soda. 

When  the  chicken  is  cooked,  remove 
carefully  from  the  pot,  place  on  a  dish, 
and  cover,  that  it  may  not  become  dry 
and  hard  ;  thicken  the  gravy  left  in 
the  pot  with  half  a  cup  of  flour  that 
has  been  mixed  smoothly  with  water ; 
stir  this  gradually  into  the  gravy,  and 
let  boil  up  once ;  then  lay  the  chicken 
back  into  the  pot,  and  set  where  it 
will  simmer  slowly  until  everything  is 
ready  to  serve.  When  the  biscuits 
are  baked  pull  them  open,  and  lay 
them  around  the  edge  of  a  deep  plat- 
ter, place  the  chicken  in  the  centre, 
and  pour  the  gravy  over  the  whole. 

Roasted  chickens  are  a  thing  of  the 
past;  but,  if  you  must  have  them  baked, 
tell  your  friend  of  the  linen  frock  to 
open  them  only  at  the  vent,  and  not  to 
tear  them,  and,  when  you  get  them  into 
your  own  hands,  pull  the  skin  back, 
cut  the  neck  off  as  close  to  the  body 
as  possible,  pull  out  all  the  fat  and 
slimy  lining,  but  leave  the  skin  whole 
on  the  breast,  cut  off  the  wing  tips, 
remove  the  oil-bottle,  and  pull  the  ten- 
dons out  of  the  legs ;  wash  thoroughly, 
and,  with  the  fingers,  dig  out  every 
particle  of  red  meat  ("  the  soul ")  from 
the  ribs  ;  wipe  dry,  inside  and  outside  ; 
rub  all  over  with  salt,  and  put  an  onion 
into  the  body  ;  press  it  into  the  breast- 
bone. Stuff  the  breast  through  the 
neck, —  not  too  full, —  and  fold  the  skin 
back,  and  sew  it  down,  or  fasten  with 
a  skewer;  that  will  leave  a  handsome 
full  breast  to  brown,  and  does  away 
with  the  ugly  wound,  which  must  be 
sewed  up,  and  the  remnant  of  a  head- 


216 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


less  neck  sticking  out,  which  we  too 
often  see  in  the  best-regulated  fami- 
lies. Fill  the  body  with  stuffing,  and 
sew  up  the  vent.  Cross  the  legs,  tie 
them  together,  draw  them  down,  and 
tie  them  firmly  about  the  tip.  Run  a 
skewer  through  the  legs  and  body,  also 
through  the  wings,  and  tie  with  strings 
wound  around  the  skewers,  and  across 
the  back  of  the  chicken.  Rub  them 
all  over  with  softened  butter,  and 
dredge  with  flour.  Put  some  water  in 
the  baking-pan,  and  baste  and  dredge 
the  chicken  often  with  flour,  not  for- 
getting the  legs.  Basting  often  will 
make  them  tender  and  juicy,  and  every 
one  will  clamor  for  a  drumstick ;  for, 
do  you  know,  when  well  treated,  it  is 
the  best  part  of  the  chicken,  and  only 
the  neglect  of  the  cook  has  made  it 
fall  into  disrepute. 

Any  one  who  has  seen  "  Shore 
Acres  "  knows  that  the  gravy  is  the 
crucial  point  of  baking  a  chicken  (for 
what  is  true  of  a  turkey  is  true  of  a 
chicken).  Boil  the  giblets,  wing  tips 
and  neck  ;  chop  the  meat  fine ;  pour 
the  water,  in  which  they  were  boiled, 
into  the  baking-pan  after  the  chickens 
are  removed,  add  the  chopped  meat, 
and  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  (or 
more)  of  flour  that  has  been  wet  with 
water  and  smoothed.  Let  this  boil  up 
once.      Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Never  lay  chickens  on  their  breasts 
in  the  baking-pan,  as  it  mars  them. 
First  lay  them  on  their  sides,  and  lastly 
on  their  backs,  and  rub  them  with  but- 
ter and  dredge  with  flour,  which  will 
make  them  brown  and  crisp.  Chickens 
prepared  in  this  way  will  come  to  the 
table  looking  plump  and  jolly,  and 
bear  little  resemblance  to  the  headless 
things,  with  wings  and  legs  at  all 
angles,  as  though  they  were  struggling 


to  resume  an  upright  position,  and  go 
on  scratching  for  existence.  If  we 
must  eat  flesh,  let  it  be  prepared  so  as 
to  bear  the  least  possible  suggestion  of 
the  life  that  has  been  sacrificed  that 
we  may  be  fed. 

"  An  old-fashioned  chicken  pie  is  a 
dish  fit  for  the  gods !  "  said  Uncle 
Obed,  as  we  were  talking  of  old-time 
cooking.  The  chickens  were  cooked 
exactly  as  for  the  stew,  except  for  the 
addition  of  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to 
a  chicken.  A  crust  made  of  a  quart 
of  flour,  into  which  has  been  rubbed  a 
small  half-cup  of  lard  or  clarified  drip- 
pings, a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  wet 
with  cold  water  (as  little  as  will  hold 
it  together) ;  roll  out  about  an  inch 
thick,  and  spread  over  half  a  cup  of 
butter  ;  sprinkle  with  flour,  and  roll  up 
and  cut  a  piece  from  the  end,  and  roll 
out  a  strip  to  line  the  sides  of  a  deep 
baking-dish  ;  one  with  flaring  sides  is 
the  best.  The  stew  should  be  allowed 
to  cool  before  putting  into  the  baking- 
dish,  as.  if  warm,  it  will  soften  the 
crust  and  make  it  soggy.  Do  not  re- 
move all  the  bones  from  the  chicken, 
as  they  will  help  to  hold  the  crust  in 
place  ;  the  large  bones  should  be  re- 
moved. Set  the  paste  on  end,  and  roll 
out  to  the  size  of  the  baking-dish;  in 
the  middle  cut  three  sides  of  a  small 
square,  and  bend  the  dough  back  so 
that  the  steam  may  escape  from  the 
pie  while  baking.  This  is  very  impor- 
tant; for,  without  this  means  of  escape 
for  the  gases,  the  pie  is  unwholesome. 
Lastly,  cover  the  pie,  wet  the  edges  of 
the  crust,  and  press  them  together 
lightly.  The  oven  should  be  quite  fast 
at  first,  but  when  the  crust  begins  to 
brown,  slow  a  little,  that  the  crust, 
which  should  be  an  inch  thick,  may 
cook  through  but  not  burn. 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


217 


Chicken  pie  fairly  disputed  the  hon- 
ors with  the  turkey  on  Thanksgiving 
Day;  and  the  pumpkin  sauce,  which 
was  its  boon  companion,  was  made  of 
the  old  -  fashioned,  big  yellow  field 
pumpkin,  the  only  kind  known  to  our 
grandmothers.  It  was  cut  into  rather 
small  pieces  and  put  into  "  the  pot," 
with  just  as  little  water  as  would  keep 
it  from  burning,  set  where  it  would 
stew  slowly,  and  stirred  often  with  a 
wooden  spoon.  This  was  left  to  cook 
all  day,  until  every  particle  of  water 
had  cooked  away,  and  the  pumpkin 
was  of  a   dull   brown  color.     Then  it 


was  sweetened  with  a  little  molasses 
and  brown  sugar,  and  seasoned  with  a 
dash  of  ginger  and  clove.  When  cool 
it  was  set  away  in  a  big  tin  milkpan. 
That  may  have  added  somewhat  to  its 
delectable  taste;  at  any  rate,  I  cannot 
think  of  the  good  old  "  punkin  sarse  " 
apart  from  the  big  milkpan  in  a  dark 
corner  of  the  buttery,  where  Jane  used 
to  go  and  pile  the  yellow  saucedish 
full  for  the  table. 

When  they  made  pumpkin  pies  — 
"  But  that  is  another  story."  The  pies 
of  our  grandmothers'  days  deserve  a 
whole  chapter  to  themselves. 


LIFE* 


Ere  a  babe  is  born  to  its  bliss  or  harm 
God  takes  the  naked  soul  on  his  arm 
And  whispers  a  great  word  in  his  ear, 
So  that  he  cannot  choose  but  hear. 

In  whatever  land  that  babe  shall  grow, 
Whether  the  world  will  hear  or  no, 
If  he  be  strong  or  be  he  weak, 
No  other  word  his  soul  shall  speak. 

If  the  time  be  ripe  and  he  doth  succeed 
In  speaking  the  word  in  a  noble  deed, 
With  illumined  fires  and  loud  peal'd  bells 
We  say,  "  In  our  land  a  hero  dwells." 


If  in  color  or  music  he  breathe  it  out, 
Each  soul  respondeth,  and  none  shall  doubt 
That  this  is  indeed  the  very  word 
Which  before  his  birth  from  God  he  heard. 

Bat,  alas  1  our  human  tongues  are  slow, 
And  the  world  is  filled  with  the  noise  of  woe, 
And  seldom  amid  the  din  is  heard 
Clearly  and  loudly  God's  own  word. 

But  when  each  soul  shall  fully  speak, 
In  its  own  accent  strong  or  weak, 
The  discord  shall  melt  in  the  music  sweet, 
And  the  poem  of  God  shall  be  complete. 

— Charles  Grcuit. 


218 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING -SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


THE   SUNSHINE    LAUNDRY, 

By  Eleanor  J.  McKenzie. 


It  was  a  famous  artist  who  is  said 
to  have  replied  to  an  enquiring  visitor, 
when  asked  with  what  he  mixed  his 
colors,  "  With  brains,  sir  !  "  A  visit  to 
the  Sunshine  Laundry  will  convince  an 
observer  that  the  artist's  medium  — 
brains  —  directs  the  management  and 
controls  the  affairs  of  this  enterprise. 
At  the  present  day,  women  who  must 
be  self-supporting  are  bringing  into 
play  trained  faculties  to  direct  their 
efforts. 

Two  sisters,  graduates  of  Smith  Col- 
lege, have  launched  this  business  ven- 
ture. The  seed-thought  of  starting  a 
laundry  came  from  another  sister,  who 
often  exclaimed,  when  looking  over  the 
mangled  remains  of  garments  returned 
from  the  washing :  "  If  I  wanted  to  go 
into  business,  I  would  start  a  laun- 
dry ! "  One  member  of  the  firm  was 
chairman  of  the  sub-committee  of  a 
branch  of  the  Association  of  Collegiate 
Alumnae,  who  considered  the  laundry 
topic  in  the  domestic-science  investi- 
gation, and  she  gained  through  that 
investigation  many  useful  and  practical 
hints  concerning  the  business.  The 
aim  of  the  firm  is  not  only  to  make  the 
business  a  financial  success,  but  to  win 
this  success  through  presenting  to  pa- 
trons perfectly  executed  and  sanitary 
work. 

As  no  old  building  could  furnish 
favorable  conditions  for  the  enter- 
prise, a  new  one  had  to  be  erected; 
and,  since  land  has  so  many  building 
restrictions,  it  was  not  easy  to  get  a 
site  :  but  one  was  finally  secured  in 
close   proximity  to   a   public  parkway, 


thus  making  possible  a  sunlighted  dry- 
ing-yard. A  two-story  building  was 
erected.  The  story  at  present  in  use 
has  no  partitions,  but  provides  one 
large  room,  sixteen  feet  high,  with  a 
floor  space  of  about  three  thousand 
square  feet.  It  has  forty  large  win- 
dows and  two  skylights,  with  ventila- 
tors, thus  insuring  the  rapid  exit  of 
steam  that  arises  from  the  washing 
and  ironing,  and  also  excellent  ventila- 
tion. 

Here  work  is  planned  to  proceed  in 
a  circle.  At  the  back  door  the  soiled 
clothes  are  received ;  the  bundles  are 
opened,  garments  received  for  the  first 
time  are  marked,  and  all  are  sorted 
according  to  condition  of  cleanliness. 
Clothes  that  are  but  slightly  soiled  are 
not  subjected  to  the  same  amount  and 
kind  of  washing  as  are  those  much 
soiled.  Of  course,  it  takes  time  to  do 
this  sorting,  and  labor  costs  money  ; 
but  unquestionably,  if  all  clothes  are 
washed  until  the  most  soiled  are 
cleansed,  many  garments  must  suffer 
unnecessary  wear.  Here,  too,  garments 
—  like  shirts,  night-dresses,  drawers, 
aprons  with  strings  —  are  tied,  so  that, 
in  many  handlings,  parts  of  the  same 
garment  are  not  separated,  and  at  the 
end  it  is  unnecessary  to  search  through 
a  hopeless  mass  of  debris  for  a  lost 
string  or  a  missing  sleeve.  What  has 
been  said  applies  to  clothes  washed  by 
steam,  but  all  goods  requiring  special 
care  are  washed  by  hand.  All  gar- 
ments, save  shirts,  collars,  and  cuffs, 
are  marked  with  red  embroidery  cot- 
ton ;  and,  to  save  patrons  the  mortifi- 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


219 


cation  of  displaying  ugly  hieroglyphics 
on  their  handkerchiefs,  these  articles 
are  put  into  small  bags,  not  more  than 
six  pieces  in  each,  and  the  mark  is  put 
upon  the  bag.  These  are  first  soaked 
in  salt  and  water  and  then  washed. 
Each  set  of  handkerchiefs  is  laid  with 
its  bag  when  ironed,  and  thus  they  are 
identified.  A  preference  book  is  kept, 
where  the  special  likings  as  to  much, 
little,  or  no  starch,  and  similar  memo- 
randa, are  entered.  A  certain  way  of 
tying  a  string  through  a  garment  has  a 
definite  meaning  as  to  preference, 
known  to  all  the  employees.  To  show 
how  thoroughly  cleanly  the  arrange- 
ments are,  even  the  chest  where  waste 
paper  is  put,  has  a  hinged  side,  in  order 
that  it  may  be  thoroughly  brushed  out 
and  washed. 

Next  come  the  steam  washer,  ex- 
tractor, and  set  tubs.  To  make  insur- 
ance rates  as  low  as  possible,  the  boiler 
and  engine  are  set  at  one  side  in  a 
fireproof  room,  entrance  to  it  from  the 
main  room  being  through  a  metallic 
door. 

A  consulting  chemist  makes  certain 
that  there  is  no  unwise  use  of  chemi- 
cals. There  is  no  scrimping  in  the  use 
of  water,  nor  in  time :  the  clothes  are 
put  through  nine  waters.  The  washed 
clothes  are  put,  still  wet,  into  the  ex- 
tractor, a  circular  box,  twenty-six  inches 
across,  and  twelve  inches  deep,  having 
a  perforated  side ;  a  canvas  cover  is 
put  over  the  box  to  keep  out  the  dust, 
and  it  is  set  revolving.  The  centrifugal 
force  drives  the  water  out  through  the 
holes,  and  by  this  method  of  wringing 
no  wear  of  the  clothes  results,  or  re- 
moval of  buttons,  as  in  the  ordinary 
hand-wringer. 

A  door  from  this  part  of  the  room 
opens  out  into  the   drying-yard,  where 


the  clothes  come  into  contact  with  pure 
air  and  sunshine,  getting  the  full  bene- 
fit of  nature's  method  of  bleaching. 
There  is  also  an  indoor  drying-room 
for  use  in  inclement  weather,  and  for 
the  clothes  after  being  starched ;  but 
there  is  a  ventilating  shaft  and  win- 
dows in  this,  and  the  fresh  air  has  free 
entrance.  Large  books  of  unbleached 
cotton  cloth  are  thoroughly  dampened, 
and  the  dried  collars  and  cuffs  are 
laid  between  the  leaves.  The  shirts 
are  placed  in  zinc-lined  boxes,  and  a 
heavy  weight  put  upon  them.  They 
stand  for  hours,  until  there  is  an  even 
dampness  throughout. 

The  ironing-boards  are  on  two  sides 
of  the  room,  and  show  many  contriv- 
ances—  some  of  them  original  —  for 
reaching  the  tops  of  sleeves,  gathers 
and  other  intricate  places.  Gas  is 
used  to  heat  the  irons.  Wages  are 
the  great  item  of  expense  in  the  laun- 
dry. All  the  women  must  be  expert 
ironers.  Those  ironing  shirts  and  col- 
lars are  paid  by  the  piece  ;  the  others 
receive  regular  day's  wages. 

All  the  finished  work  is  inspected, 
usually  by  one  or  the  other  of  the  firm, 
before  it  is  sent  home.  In  every  way 
excellence  is  sought,  and  the  quality  of 
the  work  soon  becomes  correspond- 
ingly raised. 

For  instance,  it  was  found  that  table 
linen  was  laundered  better  in  Sweden 
and  Germany  than  in  other  countries. 
Inquiries  into  these  foreign  methods 
showed  that  the  linen,  after  being  damp- 
ened, was  put  through  a  box-mangle 
and  then  ironed.  After  a  long  search 
the  firm  found  a  box-mangle.  It  was 
bought,  scoured,  scrubbed,  and  bur- 
nished, and  given  a  place  of  honor  in 
the  Sunshine  Laundry.  Passing  the 
linen  through  this  gives  it  an  indescrib- 


220 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


able  bloom.  Tablecloths  are  folded  so 
as  to  bring  all  the  folds  upon  the  top, 
adding  a  beauty  the  lover  of  a  well- 
laid  table  appreciates. 

With  the  exception  of  the  ironing 
of  collars  and  cuffs,  every  bit  of  the 
ironing  in  this  establishment  is  done 
by  hand,  and  this  means  a  vast  sav- 
ing in  the  wear  of  clothes.  No  one 
machine  will  iron  a  shirt ;  it  must  be 
passed  through  several,  and  when  the 
machine  moves  the  garment  must  move 
too.  A  sewing-machine,  with  a  woman 
to  replace  shirt  bindings,  is  a  neces- 
sary adjunct  to  any  laundry  not  doing 
genuine  handwork.  This  may  explain 
why  so  often  a  comfortable  neckband 
becomes  an  ill-fitting  one  after  a  few 
launderings. 

After  completing  the  circle,  it  was  a 
pleasure  to  stand  before  the  piles  of 
snowy,  well -ironed  clothes.  There 
were  substantial  garments  and  dainty 
ones.     Especially   attractive  were    the 


baby  dresses,  with  soft,  delicate  laces 
and  embroideries,  not  a  gather  slighted, 
not  a  stretched  seam,  not  a  rent  in 
the  beautiful  fabrics. 

A  thoughtful  reading  of  this  article 
will  show  any  one,  it  seems,  that,  with 
taxes,  rents,  and  wages  as  high  as  they 
are  about  our  cities,  this  kind  of  laundry 
work  cannot  be  done  at  very  low  rates  ; 
but  it  is  a  fact  that  the  prices  do  not 
average  more  than  those  asked  for  the 
best  handwork  at  any  first-class  laundry. 

The  Sunshine  Laundry,  in  its  single 
year  of  existence,  has  proved  beyond 
dispute  that  it  is  possible  to  have  fine, 
careful,  sanitary  laundry  work  done 
outside  the  home ;  that  overtasked 
housekeepers  may  simplify  the  con- 
ditions of  daily  living  by  removing 
from  their  homes  a  constant  source  of 
friction  and  general  discomfort;  and. 
that  the  much-dreaded  Mondays  and 
Tuesdays  may  become,  even,  the  red- 
letter  days  of  the  week. 


KOUMISS. 

By  Caroline  Duff  Jordan. 


Koumiss  has  long  been  known  as  a 
delightful,  refreshing,  and  at  the  same 
time  nourishing  beverage.  It  was  orig- 
inally prepared  by  the  nomadic  tribes 
of  the  southeastern  steppe  countries  of 
Russia  by  a  secret  process  of  ferment- 
ing mare's  milk.  Exact  knowledge  of 
the  original  methods  has  been  impos- 
sible to  obtain  ;  inquiries  are  met  with 
wise  looks  ;  and  recipes,  when  given, 
are  in  the  most  general  terms,  a  "  little 
old  koumiss  "  being  always  employed 
as  the  starting-point.     It   is   supposed, 


however,  that  some  mare's  milk  left 
exposed  in  that  dry  climate  to  the 
action  of  germs,  probably  mostly  wild 
yeast,  was  accidentally  discovered  to 
have  been  transformed  into  an  effer- 
vescent and  agreeable  beverage.  Ex- 
periment and  experience  perfected  the 
product;  and  in  recent  years  much 
attention  has  been  given  it  on  account 
of  its  value  as  a  food  and  a  medicinal 
agent  in  cases  of  defective  digestion. 
In  fact,  its  therapeutic  value  is  con- 
sidered so  beneficial   that   sanitariums 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


221 


have  been  established  in  the  steppes  of 
Russia,  and  are  still  in  active  opera^ 
tion,  for  the  treatment  of  certain  dis- 
eases by  the  "  koumiss  cure  ;  "  and  the 
greatest  care  is  used  in  its  preparation. 

A  specially  selected  breed  of  mare  is 
secured,  and  these  are  placed  in  locali- 
ties among  the  mountain  ranges  that 
are  supplied  with  running  water  and 
salt  beds.  Here  the  mares  are  care- 
fully fed,  being  denied  foods  that  have 
been  found  to  influence  seriously  the 
excellent  quality  of  the  koumiss,  not- 
ably oats  and  hay. 

The  general  method  of  preparation 
is  as  follows  :  — 

The  mare's  milk,  while  still  warm,  is 
placed  in  tall  vessels,  adding  one  part 
in  ten  of  old  koumiss,  and  allowing  it 
to  ferment  three  or  four  hours.  It  is 
then  put  into  strong  bottles,  which  are 
shaken  often  to  prevent  the  caseine 
(curd)  from  hardening  in  a  mass.  It 
is  considered  best  for  use  in  two  or 
three  days. 

Mare's  milk  is  preferable  to  other 
milks,  as  it  is  comparatively  rich  in 
sugar,  thus  facilitating  fermentation, 
and  poor  in  caseine,  thus  avoiding 
toughness ;  the  curd  is  of  a  delicate 
consistency,  and  is  easily  divided  mi- 
nutely by  shaking. 

Mare's  milk  cannot  be  easily  ob- 
tained in  this  country;  but,  nothing 
daunted,  the  American  druggist  or  the 
American  housewife  is  able  to  pro- 
duce a  very  satisfactory  koumiss  from 
cow's  milk.  It  is  called  also  "  fer- 
mented milk"  or  "milk  champagne." 
The  home-made  article  is  usually  a 
frothy,  milky-looking  liquid,  with  an 
agreeable,  slightly  acid  taste.'  It  usu- 
ally contains  about  one  per  cent,  of 
alcohol  and  lactic  acid.  Its  ready  di- 
gestibility places    it   high   in  the  list  of 


food  products,  and  the  proportion  of 
alcohol  in  well-made  koumiss  is  too 
small  to  produce  intoxication.  But 
old  koumiss  —  that  which  is  left  to  fer- 
ment too  long  —  may,  of  course,  have 
an  intoxicating  effect ;  it  is  sometimes 
even  prepared  with  this  end  in  view. 

Many  recipes  have  been  given  for  the 
preparation  of  koumiss;  but  experience 
and  individual  taste  must  regulate  the 
amount  of  yeast  and  sugar  to  be  added, 
as  well  as  the  time  allowed  for  fermen- 
tation. A  reliable  recipe  is  given  in 
the  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook- Book 
as  follows  :  — 

One-third  a  yeastcake  dissolved  in 
one  tablespoonful  of  lukewarm  water 
is  added  to  one  quart  of  milk,  with  one- 
half  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  This  is 
put  in  strong  soda  or  beer  bottles, 
filled  to  within  one  inch  and  a  half  of 
the  top.  Invert  the  bottles,  and  keep 
at  a  temperature  of  about  8o°  Fahr.  for 
six  hours.  Then  place  on  ice  to  check 
further  fermentation,  and  it  is  ready  to 
serve  in  twenty-four  hours.  This  rec- 
ipe has  been  varied  by  increasing  the 
quantity  of  sugar  and  the  addition  of 
one-tenth  water,  with  good  results. 

It  becomes  a  frothy  liquid,  much  of 
the  sugar  having  been  converted  into  al- 
cohol and  C02  (gas),  to  which,  accord- 
ing to  the  amount  present,  is  due  the 
sparkling  effervescence.  The  longer 
the  action  is  prolonged,  the  larger  the 
amount  of  gas,  alcohol,  and  lactic  acid 
there  is  formed.  It  is  sometimes  kept 
in  a  cool  place  three  or  four  days  be- 
fore serving;  the  amount  of  gas  is  then 
such  that  a  siphon  or  champagne  tap 
is  needed  to  decant  it.  If  kept  too 
long,  the  gas  would  escape  in  such 
quantities  that  the  product  would  be 
worthless,  and  probably  lost  in  an  at- 
tempt to  take  it  from  the  bottle.     Ex- 


222 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


perience  is  absolutely  the  only  guide 
for  deciding  the  exact  length  of  time 
needed  to  reach  the  required  strength. 

Ordinary  koumiss,  in  small  doses, 
produces  a  feeling  of  warmth  in  the 
stomach;  in  large  doses,  or  in  cases 
of  doses  of  old  koumiss  (long  fer- 
mented), the  effect  is  like  that  of 
champagne.  Its  principal  value  is  con- 
sidered to  be  in  connection  with  dis- 
ordered digestion  ;  although,  in  the 
schedule  of  diseases  benefited  by  the 
"koumiss  cure,"  consumption  is  espe- 
cially mentioned,  also  defective  nutri- 
tion and  convalescence  from  fevers. 

In  either  the  oriental  or  domestic 
koumiss,  the  physiological  action  is  the 
same.  Even  though  carefully  made, 
the  product  will  vary  in  different  sea- 
sons of  the  year,  and  with  the  milk 
supply,  but  not  enough  to  change  essen- 
tially its  characteristics. 

The  advantages  claimed  for  it  are  as 


follows  :  It  may  be  held  on  the  stom- 
ach when  all  other  nourishment,  espe- 
cially milk,  has  been  rejected.  The 
reason  for  this  is  assigned  to  the  follow- 
ing changes  :  (i)  Coagulation  has  taken 
place;  (2)  caseine,  one  of  the  most 
nourishing  principles,  is  in  a  fine  state 
of  subdivision;  (3)  C02  is  present  in 
the  free  state,  and  exerts  a  sedative 
action  ;  (4)  the  presence  of  lactic  acid 
still  further  aids  digestion. 

It  is  true  that  many  persons  dislike 
their  first  taste  of  koumiss ;  but  with 
its  regular  use  a  relish  for  the  same  is 
acquired. 

The  art  of  making  koumiss  is  easily 
attained.  A  few  experiments  will  de- 
termine the  quantity  of  materials  to 
be  employed  and  the  conditions  best 
adapted  for  fermentation.  In  this  man- 
ner its  preparation  is  not  difficult,  and 
the  product  may  be  readily  modified 
to  meet  the  wants  of  individual  cases. 


THE  TRAINED  NURSE. 


The  trained  nurse,  bless  her!  is  the 
one  ray  of  sunshine  that  crosses  the 
physician's  pathway.  What  would  we 
do  without  her  ?  Does  she  not  sustain 
the  hapless  invalid  with  hope  when  we 
are  absent  ?  Does  she  not  smell  the 
bottle,  and  assure  the  patient  that 
"  it's  just  the  thing  for  rheumatiz," 
and  that  "  never  you  fear,  Dr.  Jones 
knows  what  he's  about "  ?  Let  us,  for 
the  good  she  does,  remember  her  in 
our  prayers.  But,  seriously,  are  we 
not  over-educating  her  in  some  ways, 
and  under  educating  her  in  others? 
Is   it   best  to   lecture  her  as  a  medical 


student?  She  does  not  need  to  know 
the  points 'of  differential  diagnosis  be- 
tween Locomotor  Ataxia  and  Anterior- 
poliomyelitis.  But  she  should  know  just 
when  to  turn  a  flapjack.  If  she  broils 
a  beefsteak  properly  for  our  patient,  it 
should  not  be  a  matter  of  luck,  but  of 
scientific  accuracy.  She  should  know 
the  proximate  principles  of  our  food 
products,  and  what  treatment  is  best 
suited  to  each  article  to  render  it  pala- 
table and  digestible.  The  chemistry 
of  cookery  is  a  broad  subject,  and  an 
important  one.  She  should  master  it. 
—  C/i  it  -(nro  Clin  i(  \ 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


223 


ESSENTIALS  AND  NON-ESSENTIALS. 

By  Louise  Markscheffel. 


With  the  permission  of  the  house- 
keepers who  have  the  pleasure  and 
privilege  of  reading  the  Boston  Cook- 
ing-School Magazine,  let  me  make  a 
plea  for  essentials  in  the  home,  in  con- 
tradistinction to  non-essentials. 

It  seems  to  me  housekeepers  too 
greatly  emphasize  system,  hours,  scrub- 
bing, washing  of  windows,  cleaning 
and  scouring.  These  all  have  their 
place ;  but  do  we  not  make  a  fetish  of 
them  ? 

When  I  hear  that  moan  :  "  Nobody 
can  have  a  well-ordered  house  without 
system,  method,  hours  and  days  for 
cleaning,"  I  get  a  mental  picture  of  a 
house  where  discomfort  reigns,  and  in 
which  the  family  is  given  up  to  Things. 

Things;  let  us  beware  of  them.  The 
way  Things  can  possess  us  is  alarming, 
and  we  all  know  plenty  of  homes  that 
have  been  wrecked  on  the  rock  of 
Things.  I  do  not  deny  that  it  is  essen- 
tial to  have  every  dark  and  lonesome 
corner  sweet  and  clean.  But  I  suspect 
there  is  too  much  emphasis  on  scour- 
ing the  same  table  every  day,  cleaning 
silver,  just  because  silver  day  has  come 
round,  washing  windows  because  the 
neighbors  will  think  we  are  not  good 
housekeepers,  if  we  do  not  wash  them 
every  week. 

The  household  under  consideration 
is  the  American  home,  where  there  is 
one  housemaid  and  a  family  not  un- 
wieldy in  size.  I  do  not  include  the 
house  where  an  overworked  mother 
performs  all  the  duties  for  a  family 
of  six  or  eight.  In  this  case  I  would 
advocate  less  cleaning  of  the  places 
that  show,  and  only  the  keeping  sweet 


of  the  sink,  bread-box,  refrigerator, 
cellar,  and  such  spots  where  hygiene 
enters  in,  with  all  labor  elsewhere  re- 
duced to  a  minimum. 

It  seems  to  me  it  is  of  far  greater 
importance  that  the  home  circle  should 
be  comfortable  and  happy  and  catered 
to,  than  that  the  everlasting  scrubbing, 
sweeping,  opening  of  windows,  and 
confusion  should  mar  all  repose.  A 
rhythmic  household,  one  in  which  com- 
fort stands  first  and  Things  second, 
is  nearer  the  ideal  condition,  than  the 
one  in  which  scowls  greet  those  who 
intrude  upon  sweeping-hours,  or  where 
washday  finds  an  unhappy  and  dismal 
looking  family  group  around  a  slovenly 
table,  upon  which  badly  prepared  food 
is  placed. 

Cooking -schools  have  a  beautiful 
mission  in  teaching  women  the  refine- 
ment and  dignity  of  housework,  and 
the  importance  of  keeping  things  clean, 
when  once  the  outlay  of  labor  has 
been  made.  How  well  we  housekeep- 
ers know  the  average  housemaid  !  We 
must  go  through  the  throes  of  teaching 
her  that  greasy  dishwater  is  unfit;  that 
the  kitchen  table  may  be  kept  free 
from  grease-spots  by  intelligent  care  ; 
that  kettles  must  be  clean  both  inside 
and  outside ;  that  nobody  can  make 
good  coffee  in  a  pot  that  is  not  per- 
fectly sweet ;  that  sink,  refrigerator, 
bread-box,  and  all  obscure  spots  must 
be  cleanest  of  all.  These  are  essen- 
tials, it  seems  to  me ;  but  that  the  front 
stairs,  for  instance,  should  be  wiped 
down  every  day,  whether  there  is  time 
or  not,  seems  to  me  a  non-essential. 

Show  pieces  of  furniture,  in  a  plain 


224 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


home,  are  non-essential ;  but  low,  broad 
lounges,  comfortable  chairs,  a  grate  fire, 
books,  —  these  are  essential.  When 
comfort  is  the  keynote  to  our  house- 
holds, we  do  not  ask :  "  How  will  it 
look  ?  "  but,  "  How  will  it  adapt  itself 
to  the  comfort  of  the  dear  ones  ? " 

What  a  pitiful  home  is  that  where 
everything  is  sacrificed  to  appearances, 
to  what  other  people  will  think,  or  to 
the  madness  of  an  incessant  cleaner! 
The  house  is  all  too  common  where 
an  open  window  on  a  summer  day  is 
considered  little  short  of  a  crime,  be- 
cause the  dust  will  come  in  ;  where 
everybody  must  hustle  and  get  out,  or 
go  down  town  for  meals,  because  the 
house-cleaning  fiend  is  let  loose.  Beds 
are  not  allowed  to  air,  and  become 
sweet  places  of  refreshment  and  repose, 
because  they  must  be  made  up,  and 
the  work  gotten  "  out  of  the  way  "  early. 

A  member  of  the  family  asks  to  have 
a  friend  to  dinner  on  Monday;  that  is 
washday.  Tuesday,  then  ?  No  :  that 
is  ironing-day ;  Wednesday  is  for  silver 
cleaning ;  Thursday,  the  maid  goes 
out;  Friday  is  sweeping-day,  and  Sat- 
urday baking-day.  Only  one  day  that 
is  not  labelled,  "  Keep  off;  "  only  one 
day  that  is  not  a  terror. 

The  solar  system  will  perform  its 
evolutions  just  the  same;  time  will 
proceed  toward  the  eternities ;  the  sea- 
sons will  come  and  go  in  their  own 
beautiful  order,  just  the  same,  if  we 
change    the   labels   on   some  of  these 


days,  and  make  comfort,  kindness, 
hospitality,  and  good  cheer  the  em- 
phasis of  our  homes. 

It  is  easier  to  pick  up  after  the  im- 
possible boy,  to  brush  the  bit  of  ashes 
from  the  rug,  to  put  in  place  the  book 
or  paper,  than  it  is  to  nag,  and  hurt 
his  feelings.  The  one  requires  the 
labor  of  a  moment  only ;  the  other 
hurts  and  lasts  all  day,  in  the  hearts  of 
both  the  scolder  and  the  scolded. 

In  a  home  where  comfort  is  the  em- 
phasis, even  moving  may  lose  its  ter- 
rors. I  know  one  where  each  luncheon 
or  dinner,  up  to  the  last  day,  was 
graced  by  visitors,  who  ate  delicate 
little  chafing-dish  preparations,  and 
where  draughts  were  unknown  ;  where 
good  cheer  abounded,  and  no  one 
arose  a  moment  earlier  in  the  morn- 
ing. What  matters  a  day  in  the  great 
plan  ?  Far  better  that  some  of  the 
Things  go  undone  than  that  the  dear 
ones  should  be  pushed  aside,  and  have 
no  part,  nor  place,  nor  repose,  nor 
heart's-joy. 

Let  us  think  about  it ;  let  us  try  to 
separate  the  essentials  from  the  non- 
essentials. Let  us  not  be  housekeepers 
with  a  vengeance,  but  homekeepers 
with  sweetness  in  our  hearts  toward 
all  the  world,  an  ever-present  thought 
for  the  comfort  and  happiness  of  those 
dependent  upon  us,  and  with  the  truest 
consideration  for  their  wishes. 

Such  a  house  shall  be  called  the 
House  of  Peace. 


3  7  ^>~fkj7 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


225 


SELECTED  VERSE. 


SOMETHING    LEFT    UNDONE. 

Labor  with  what  zeal  we  will, 
Something  still  remains  undone, 

Something  uncompleted  still 
Waits  the  rising  of  the  sun. 

By  the  bedside,  on  the  stair, 

At  the  threshold,  near  the  gates, 

With  its  menace  or  its  prayer, 
Like  a  mendicant  it  waits. 

Waits,  and  will  not  go  away ; 

Waits,  and  will  not  be  gainsaid  ; 
By  the  cares  of  yesterday 

Each  to-day  is  heavier  made. 

Till  at  length  the  burden  seems 

Greater  than  our  strength  can  bear, 

Heavy  as  the  weight  of  dreams, 
Pressing  on  us  everywhere. 

And  we  stand  from  day  to  day, 
Like  the  dwarfs  of  times  gone  by, 

Who,  as  northern  legends  say, 
On  their  shoulders  held  the  sky. 

—  Longfellow. 

THE    FORM    DIVINE. 

I  stood  upon  the  hills  with  derricks  crowned, 
Whence  marble  shafts  and  statue  forms  are 

hewn  ; 
'Mid    waste    and    dump,    in    wild    abandon 
strewn, 
Were  blocks  of  lifeless  rubble  on  the  ground. 
In  each,  a  form  divine  lies  sleeping,  bound 
In  garment    rough,  not  yet  with  grace   en- 
dowed — 
But    when    the    artist    hand    removes    the 
shroud, 
Then  will  the  angel  pure  and  white  be  found. 

I  stood  upon  the  hills,  the  world  below 
Was  strewn  with    peoples   rough   and   rabble 
rude. 
Deep  buried  in  each  heart  I  know  there  lies 
A  form  divine,  beneath  the  surface  crude, 
And  when  the  Master  Artist  does  bestow 
His  final  touch,  lo,  perfect  forms  will  rise. 
—  Charles  IV.  Scarf. 


THE    GREATER    PEACE. 

Sorrow's  coming  up  the  slope, 

Clad  in  robes  of  Night ; 
But  we  hear  the  bells  of  Hope  — 

See  the  morning  bright  ! 
Weep  not  on  the  brighter  way 
For  the  griefs  of  yesterday  ! 

Face  the  morning  !  lo,  the  storm 

Gives  the  light  release  ; 
Comes  the  fairer  spirit-form 

Of  the  greater  Peace  ! 
Folded  in  the  dark  away 
Are  the  griefs  of  yesterday. 

Right  reigns  kinglier  for  the  Wrong, 

Realized  the  dream  ; 
And  the  sorrow  is  the  song, 

And  the  song's  supreme  ! 
Hope  is  with  us  —  faith  is  strong 
In  the  singing  of  the  song  I 

Let  it  reach  the  heaven  profound 

Over  storm  and  strife  ! 
Let  its  thrilling  notes  resound 

At  the  Gates  of  Life  ! 
Lo  !  all  tears  and  sorrows  cease 
In  the  beauty  of  God's  peace  I 

—  Atlanta  Constitution. 


COMPENSATION. 

Balance-loving  Nature 
Made  all  things  in  pairs. 
To  every  foot  its  antipode  ; 
Perfect-paired  as  eagle's  wings, 
Justice  is  the  rhyme  of  things. 
Trade  and  counting  use 
The  self-same  tuneful  muse  ; 
And  Nemesis, 

Who  with  even  matches  odd, 
Who  athwart  space  redresses 
The  partial  wrong, 
Fills  the  just  period, 
And  finishes  the  song. 

—  Emerson. 


226 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


TTbe   Boston  Coofeing*5cbool 
Corporation, 

Established  1879.  Incorporated  1882. 

School:  372  Boylston  Street. 


BOARD  OF  MANAGERS,  1900. 

Mrs.  WM.  B.  SEWALL         -        -        -     President. 
Mrs.  STEPHEN   D.    BENNETT,   Vice-President. 


EXECUTIVE  COMMITTEE. 

Mrs.  WM.  B.  SEWALL, 

Miss  ELLEN  M.  CHANDLER, 
Mrs.  ELLIOTT  RUSSELL, 
Mrs.  MOORFIELD  STOREY, 

Mrs.  LANGDON  SHANNON  DAVIS, 
Mrs.  WALTER  CHANNING, 

Mrs.  WINSLOW  WARREN, 
Miss  MINNA   TRAIN. 

Mrs.  EVERETT   MORSS. 
Mrs.  G.  E.  NILES,  Treasurer. 
Mrs.  EVERETT  MORSS,  Secretary. 
Principal,    Miss  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER. 
1  Miss  CHARLOTTE  JAMES  WILLS. 
Assistants,  s  Misg  MARIA  w    HOWARD. 


XTbe   Boston   Goofun3*5cbool 
/IDagasine, 

Of  Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics. 

PUBLISHED   BIMONTHLY. 

OFFICIAL     JOURNAL     OF     THE      BOSTON 

COOKING-SCHOOL   CORPORATION. 

Publication  Office: 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

JANET  MCKENZIE  HILL     -        -        -        Editor. 

BENJ.  M.  HILL,        -        -  General  Manager. 

R.  B.  HILL,         -        -        -        Business  Manager. 

ELLA   L.   BREED,    Advertising  Representative. 


Subscription   50   cts.    per    year.      Single    Copies 
10  cts. 

Advertising  rates  furnished  on  application. 


To  Subscribers. 

When  sending  notice  to  renew  subscription  or 
change  address,  please  give  the  old  address  as 
well  as  the  new . 

We  use  in  our  subscription  list  the  card 
index  system,  by  which  absolute  accuracy  is  se- 
cured ;  but  in  referring  to  an  original  entry  we 
must  know  the  name  as  it  was  formerly  given, 
together  with  the  Postoffice,  County,  State,  Post- 
office  Box,  or  Street  Number. 

Entered  at  Boston  Postoffice  as  second-class 

matter. 


\Yealth  is  a  social  product.  The 
progress  of  society  rests  upon  the  in- 
creasing collectivity  of  human  labor. 


ANNUAL  REPORT* 
A  CCORDING  to  custom,  a  brief 
**  summary  of  the  annual  report  of 
the  Boston  Cooking- School  is  pre- 
sented here.  The  directors  have  reason 
to  be  proud  of  the  record  of  the  School 
for  the  year  ending  December,  1899. 
Notwithstanding  the  solicitude  occa- 
sioned by  the  large  expenditures  inci- 
dental to  a  removal  to  new  and  larger 
quarters,  the  large  classes  and  increased 
attendance  upon  lectures  and  demon- 
strations have  justified  the  wisdom  of 
the  change. 

The  statistics  of  the  school  work  for 
the  year  are  as  follows  :  — 
The   number   of    demonstration   lectures 

given  was 48 

The  total  attendance  on  same      .     .     .     3,500 

The  average  attendance 73 

The  number  of  private  classes  conducted      18 

The  attendance  on  same 1S0 

The  average  number  in  a  class  ....  10 
The  number  of  special  pupils  taught  .  .  218 
The  number  of  hospital  lectures  given      .     45 

The  hospitals  include  the  New 
Hampshire  Asylum  at  Concord,  N.  H., 
the  Charity  Hospital,  the  Homoeo- 
pathic Hospital  and  the  hospitals  at 
Everett,  Fitchburg,  Maiden,  Melrose 
and  Quincy.  Mass.  The  annual  course 
of  lectures  was  given  to  the  entire 
fourth-year  class  of  medical  students  at 
Harvard  College. 

About  sixty -three  special  lectures 
were  given  to  the  Normal  Class,  includ- 
ing those  on  psychology,  physiology, 
and   bacteriology. 

To  this  class  also  were  given  lessons 
on  marketing  and  laundry  work,  and 
a  special  course  of  twenty  lectures 
adapted  to  public-school  work. 

Twenty-nine  pupils  entered  the  Nor- 
mal Class  in  January,  1899;  of  these 
twenty-eight  were  graduated  in  the  fol- 
lowing June.     The  work  done  by  the 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


227 


class  was  of  a  high  order  of  excellence, 
and  the  able  and  comprehensive  man- 
ner in  which  the  young  women  con- 
ducted their  closing  exercises  was  a 
source  of  gratification  to  all  those  in 
charge.  In  the  column  of  ':  News  and 
Notes,"  in  the  present  issue  of  this 
magazine,  may  be  learned  the  posi- 
tions already  occupied  by  the  members 
of  this  class. 

The  conduct  of  the  School  during 
the  past  year  has  continued,  in  the 
main,  the  same  as  in  previous  years. 
The  by-laws  have  not  been  changed, 
and  the  votes  passed,  affecting  in  any 
way  the  accepted  rules  of  the  School, 
are  two.  The  first  provides  that  no 
pupil  can  be  given  a  diploma  unless 
she  has  completed  the  full  course  at 
the  School,  though  she  may  be  given  a 
certificate  of  work  actually  done,  at  the 
option  of  the  directors.  The  second 
defines  more  clearly  the  tariff  for  cooks 
who  take  private  lessons  of  the  in- 
structors. 

The  staff  of  teachers  remains  the 
same ;  also,  the  corps  of  lecturers. 
We  consider  ourselves  fortunate  in 
having  as  teachers  those  who  are  not 
only  eminently  capable  in  all  respects, 
but  who  are  also  entirely  devoted  to 
the  welfare  of  the  School. 

We  regard  the  successful  manage- 
ment of  the  Magazine  as  a  matter  of 
paramount  importance.  It  has  be- 
come a  valued  ally  of  the  School,  as 
well  as  a  strong  and  healthy  medium 
of  spreading  abroad  the  knowledge  of 
scientific  and  practical  cookery.  Its 
mission  is  by  no  means  local ;  it  aims 
to  meet  the  long-felt,  ill-satisfied  wants 
of  the  average  housekeeper  throughout 
the  length  and  breadth  of  the  land. 

From  every  direction,  already,  we 
are  in  receipt  of  the  most  hearty  words 


of  commendation  and  approval  in  ref- 
erence to  the  conduct  of  the  Magazine, 
—  words  that  always  reflect  credit  upon 
the  School  and  the  editorial  manage- 
ment of  the  journal. 

Mrs.  Everett  Morss,  Sec. 


IN  a  recent  number  of  The  Epicure, 
*  a  London  culinary  journal,  after 
quoting  at  length  from  an  article  lately 
contributed  to  this  magazine,  entitled 
"  A  New  Phase  in  Dietetics,"  in  which 
the  writer  refers  to  a  dietary  grocery 
and  restaurant  of  a  rather  singular 
order,  the  editor  goes  on  to  descant:  — 

I  feel  myself  humiliated.  I  have  known 
my  Regent  Street  these  forty  years,  and  I 
thought  I  knew  it  well,  but  neither  "on"  nor 
"in  "  it  can  I  locate  this  scientific  restaurant. 
I  have  searched  for  it  in  vain.  I  have  even 
"asked  a  p'liceman,"  but  without  effect.  'Tis 
a  pity,  for  I  would  give  much  to  be  able  to 
study  the  ways  of  this  strange,  weird  place, 
where  they  soak  their  meats  and  treat  their 
fruits  chemically  in  the  interests  of  hygiene ; 
and  to  listen  to  the  improving  converse  of 
those  capped  and  aproned  she  members  of 
the  College  of  Physicians,  with  the  optical 
peculiarities  that  are  so  strenuously  insisted 
upon,  would  be  an  experience  for  a  lifetime. 
But  it  may  not  be.  These  things  are  hidden 
from  the  gross,  material  Londoner,  and  only 
revealed  to  the  good  American  en  voyage. 

This  is  good —  exquisite.  Conceive, 
if  you  can,  the  sedate  editor  of  The 
Epicure  walking  up  and  down  Regent 
Street,  scanning  signboards,  hailing 
policemen,  etc.,  in  his  vain  endeavor 
to  find  what  had  existed,  we  presume, 
only  in  the  fanciful  brain  of  our  con- 
tributor. We  have  read  somewhere 
that  our  kinsmen  on  the  other  side  of 
the  Atlantic  are  slow  to  appreciate 
what  is  said  in  jest,  and  here  is  cumu- 
lative proof  of  the  truth  of  the  state- 
ment. Hence  we  hasten  to  inform  our 
esteemed  contemporary  that,  in  the  ar- 
ticle in  our  last  issue  entitled  "  Where 


228 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


She  Learned  It,"  by  the  same  con- 
tributor, an  important  truth  is  clothed 
in  a  garb  entirely  fanciful.  The  nar- 
rative is  purely  and  simply  a  work  of 
the  imagination.  On  the  other  hand, 
The  Sunshine  Laundry,  described  in 
our  present  number,  is  an  indubitable 
fact.  The  thing  itself  actually  exists. 
It  can  be  found  and  seen. 


TN  an  interesting  editorial  on  "  What 
*  Some  of  Us  Do  not  Know,"  the  edi- 
tor of  The  Ladies'1  Home  Journal  cites 
some  facts  that  are  worthy  of  repetition 
and  wide  attention.  Among  other  state- 
ments, he  says  :  — 

Not  long  ago  a  woman  said  in  my  hearing 
that  domestic  conditions  were  so  rapidly  chang- 
ing in  America  that  now  "  nearly  every  home 
in  this  country  has  in  it  one  or  more  servants ;  " 
whereas,  as  an  actual  matter  of  Government 
statistics,  only  eighteen  per  cent,  of  all  the 
families  in  America  employ  domestic  help, 
leaving  eighty-two  per  cent,  without  even  one 
servant. 

So  little  do  the  people  of  the  cities  know  of 
the  life  of  the  people  of  the  nation  that  last 
winter  a  New  York  man,  accepted  as  a  social 
authority,  seriously  declared  that  no  gentleman 
sat  down  to  his  dinner  nowadays  except  in 
evening  clothes.  But  the  statement  is  sweep- 
ing and  does  not  contain  the  first  scintilla  of 
truth ;  for,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  less  than  two 
per  cent,  of  all  the  men  in  America  own  "  full- 
dress  suits,"  and  fully  seven-eighths  of  our 
American  families  have  their  dinners  at  noon. 

A  woman  living  on  the  Eastern  seaboard 
expressed  surprise  last  summer  that  people 
"from  as  far  west  as  Illinois"  should  come  to 
her  town  "  to  get  a  whiff  of  the  salt  air."  She 
was  further  surprised,  I  fancy,  when  it  was 
easily  proved  to  her  that  there  are  several 
millions  of  people  living  in  America  who  never 
have  known  what  it  is  to  smell  salt  water,  and 
never  have  feasted  their  eyes  on  an  ocean. 
There  are  tens  of  thousands  of  people  in 
America  who  never  have  ridden  on  a  railroad 
car,  while  those  who  never  have  seen  a  car, 
nor  even  a  railroad  track,  may  be  easily 
counted  by  the  thousands. 


Let  a  table  of  household  expenses  be  pub- 
lished, and  let  that  table  figure  out  how  it  is 
possible  for  a  family  of  three  to  live  on  ten 
dollars  a  week.  Thousands  smile  and  say, 
"  It's  impossible.  No  three  people  could  live 
comfortably  on  that  amount."  Yet  thousands 
and  thousands  of  families  live,  and  live  well 
and  comfortably,  on  half  that  sum  a  week. 
According  to  authoritative  statistics,  out  of 
twelve  million  American  families  the  income 
of  four  millions  of  these  families  is  less  than 
$400  each  a  year,  and  the  incomes  of  nearly 
eighty  per  cent,  of  the  entire  number  is  less 
than  $1,000  each  a  year. 

These  are  significant  items  ;  they 
are  suggestive  of  matter  for  thought 
and  study.  They  show,  also,  how 
apt  sweeping  statements  and  shal- 
low knowledge  are  to  be  wide  of  the 
truth.  Is  it  not  literally  true  that,  in  our 
greedy  strife  for  selfish  gain,  one  half 
the  world  forgets,  or  does  not  know, 
how  the  other  half  lives  ?  In  no  sphere 
of  life,  perhaps  on  account  of  the  priv- 
acy of  the  home  and  the  consequent 
lack  of  careful  investigation,  does  ig- 
norance prevail  to  greater  extent  than 
in  respect  to  the  every-day  concerns  of 
domestic  life. 


The  child  who  grows  up  with  no 
memory  of  a  kitchen  in  which  it  was 
privileged  to  "  play  cook  "  has  lost  part 
of  the  joy  of  life. 


"  The  trouble  with  most  of  us  is 
that  we  throw  musty  old  crusts  on  the 
water  and  expect  frosted  cake  in  re- 
turn." 


Ability  and  nobility  of  character  and 
purity  of  disposition  depend  in  a  great 
measure  on  what  is  eaten  at  the  table. 


Food  is  the  source  from  which  are 
derived  thought  and  muscular  force, 
power  and  strength. 


<£2>    ^sS> 


After=  Breakfast  Chat, 

By  Janet  M.   Hill. 
( Reprinted  from  Vol.  I.,  No.  4.) 
Then  welcome  refuge  and  a  peaceful  home." 


Oftentimes  the  idea  is  advanced 
that  she  who  keeps  house  in  a  proper 
manner  attends  to  it  at  all  times  with 
such  a  degree  of  nicety  that  there  is 
never  an  occasion  for  the  general  house- 
cleaning  days,  which,  from  time  imme- 
morial, have  furnished  jokes  for  the 
"  funny  men  "  of  the  newspapers. 

A  condition  of  ideal  housekeeping  is 
one  which  we  may  do  well  to  attempt 
to  realize;  but,  except  in  the  homes  of 
the  very  rich,  where  the  management 
of  the  house  is  made  the  business  of  a 
small  army  of  experts,  and  is  under  the 
supervision  of  a  trained  manager,  this 
happy  condition  is  not  likely  to  be 
fully  realized,  at  least,  until  we  are 
able  to  simplify  very  much  more  than 
at  present  the  affairs  of  living. 

In  the  past  twenty  years  we  know 
much  has  been  done  to  diminish  the 
tedious  manual  duties  of  the  house- 
keeper; but,  though  burdens  have  been 
lessened,  and  thus  time  gained  in  one 
direction,  still  much  more  time  is 
demanded  to-day  than  was  demanded 
in  the  past  for  the  working-out  of  what 
we  may  call  the  aesthetic  side  of  house- 
keeping and  home-making.  Probably 
we  need  not  say  that,  in  the  use  of  the 
word  "aesthetic,"  we  do  not  refer  to 
the  embroidery  of  "throws"  or  other 
dust-catchers,  which  are  no  longer  — 
if  they  ever  were  —  compatible  with 
the  style  and  tone  of  the  house  of  our 
modern  home-maker.    Embroidery  may 


be  a  means  of  cultivating  our  aesthetic 
tastes.  The  simple  overhanding  of  a 
seam  requires  for  its  accomplishment 
little  or  no  mental  effort ;  and  yet  the 
quieting  influence  of  its  very  monotony 
may  be  the  one  thing  the  harassed 
house-mother  needs  practice,  in  order 
that  she  may  cultivate  the  needful  qual- 
ities of  her  character.  While  fashion- 
ing garments  for  her  little  ones,  many 
a  discontented  mother  has  sat  and 
stitched,  until  her  discontent  has  passed 
off,  as  it  were,  from  the  point  of  her 
needle. 

Let  us,  then,  not  discard  any  means 
by  which  we  may  cultivate  the  better 
instincts  of  our  nature,  —  any  means 
that  will  enable  us  to  forget  self,  turn 
discord  into  harmony,  and  develop  a 
love  for  the  "  science  of  the  beautiful" 
in  our  lives,  and  in  the  lives  of  our 
children. 

As  the  knight  in  his  "  search  for  the 
Holy  Grail,"  we  need  not  go  far  to 
find  the  means  to  this  end.  They  are 
ever  present  even  in  the  lowliest  home. 
The  daintily  served  Sunday-night  tea, 
which  the  children  may  assist  in  pre- 
paring, the  hour  of  reading  aloud,  the 
concert,  the  daily  walk,  a  cheerful  sal- 
utation, are  some  of  the  simple  re- 
sources at  the  command  of  anyone  who 
has,  first  of  all,  looked  out  for  those 
conditions  upon  which  the  possibility 
of  good  health  depends,  and  without 
which  the  comfort  that  the  home  was 


2  3° 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


primarily  designed  to  secure  is  impos- 
sible. 

This  brings  us  back  to  our  starting- 
point, —  the  semi-yearly  house-cleaning. 
How  are  we  to  accomplish  this  with 
the  least  discomfort  to  our  families  ? 

Don't  begin  to  clean  "  by  the  calen- 
dar." Mrs.  A.  replenishes  her  chests 
of  bed  and  table  linen  in  February, 
makes  summer  dresses  in  March,  and 
on  the  first  day  of  April  dumps  the 
furnace  fire,  takes  down  the  pipes,  so 
that  no  dust  may  be  conveyed  through 
them,  and  devotes  the  entire  month  to 
a  thorough  renovation  of  her  house. 
Her  husband  might  follow  the  fashion 
of  the  convivial  Samuel  Pepys,  the 
faithful  depictor  of  a  bygone  age,  on 
a  similar  occasion,  and  note  in  his 
diary  :  — 

(Sunday.)  Dined  with  my  wife,  she  staying 
at  home,  being  unwilling  to  dress  herself,  the 
house  being  all  dirty. 

What  a  disappointment  this  must 
have  been  to  our  fastidious  Mr.  Pepys, 
who  thought  so  much  about  fine  clothes. 
But  perhaps  it  would  be  to  our  edifica- 
tion, if  Mrs.  Pepys  had  also  written  a 
diary,  to  which  we  could  have  access ; 
for,  if  we  read  aright  between  the  lines 
of  our  noted  diarist,  Mrs.  Pepys  was 
not  given  much  latitude  in  the  manage- 
ment of  her  household  affairs.  Let 
Mr.  Pepys  himself  explain  :  — 

(Lord's  Day.)  ....  talking  with  my  wife, 
in  whom  I  never  had  greater  content,  blessed 
be  Godl  than  now,  she  continuing  with  the 
same  care,  and  thrift  and  innocence,  as  long  as 
I  keep  her  from,  occasions  of  being-  otherwise, 
as  ever  she  was  in  her  life,  and  keeps  the 
house  as  well. 

But,  to  return  from  our  digression, 
don't    copy    after    Mrs.    A.,    for    your 


house  might  become  cold  as  well  as 
untidy.  Shut  up  one  room,  and  when 
that  is  presentable,  do  the  same  with 
another.  Don't  try  to  accomplish  too 
much  in  one  day,  and  strive  to  attain 
whatever  you  assay  without  undue  care 
for  the  tasks  of  to-morrow.  Each  day 
is  sufficient  in  itself. 

We  admit  that  painters  and  paper- 
hangers  can  be  the  most  aggravating 
of  men,  but  there  are  seasons  of  the 
year  when  they  are  more  amenable  to 
the  wishes  of  those  employing  them 
than  they  usually  are  in  the  month  of 
April.  And  is  there  any  imperative 
reason  why  such  work  cannot  be  done 
in  July  or  August,  when  part  of  the 
family  may  be  away  from  home,  and 
many  workmen  are  idle  ?  Still,  there 
are  matters  that  should  receive  atten- 
tion early  in  the  spring.  Under  ordin- 
ary circumstances,  the  attic  may  be  dis- 
regarded for  a  time,  and  the  health  of 
the  family  remain  intact;  but  the  cellar 
must  receive  the  most  scrupulous  atten- 
tion, if  we  seek  to  maintain  the  condi- 
tions of  health  in  our  homes.  Do  not 
tolerate  dampness  or  anything  offen- 
sive or  decaying  there.  It  were  better 
to  pay  an  item  for  thorough  drainage 
than  a  doctor's  bill.  Ashes,  of  course, 
have  been  removed  weekly  during  the 
winter;  and,  as  vegetables  should  never 
be  bought  in  such  quantities  as  to  risk 
the  chance  of  decay,  there  cannot  be 
an  overwhelming  amount  of  work  to  be 
done,  to  secure  a  perfect  sanitary  con- 
dition. Remember,  however,  that  a 
single  cabbage,  or  half  a  peck  of  apples 
in  a  state  of  decay,  or  even  a  lot  of  old 
damp  mop-cloths,  is  cause  sufficient  to 
breed  disease. 


SO 


^> 


^ 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 

ECONOMICAL  MENUS  FOR  ONE  WEEK  IN   LENT. 

FAMILY    OR     RIVE. 

"  Better  is  a  little  with  righteousness  than  great  revenue  without  right." 


231 


BREAKFAST,    .44. 

Wheat ena,    Stewed    Peaches    (dried), 

Cream,  .18. 

Eggs  shirred  with  Bread  Crumbs,  .12. 

Cornmeal  Muffins,  .07. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 

DINNER,  .90. 

Vegetable  Soup,  .10. 

Fillets  of  Flounder  Stuffed  and  Fried,  .30. 

Cole-slaw,  .10. 

French  Beans,  Buttered,  .10. 

Bananas  and  Nuts  in  Lemon  Jelly,  .17. 

Wafers,  Cream,  .10.     Coffee,  .03. 

SUPPER,  .41. 

Entire- Wheat  Bread  and  Butter,  .10. 

Neufchatel  Cheese,  .10. 

Plain  Junket.         Stewed  Peaches-,  .20. 

Cocoa,  .04. 


BREAKFAST,  .49. 

Toasted  Wheat,  Bananas,  Milk,  .12. 

Finnan-Haddie  (broiled),  Cream,  .18. 

White  Hashed  Potatoes,  .03. 

Pickled  Beets,  .03. 

Brownbread,  Toasted,  .08. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 

DINNER,  .66. 

Tomato  Soup,  .12.     Cheese  Souffle,  .20 

Spinach  Salad,  .18. 

Custard  Pie,  .13. 

Coffee,  .03. 

8UJPPEB,  .43. 

Succotash  (dried  Corn  and  Beans),  .12. 

Bread  and  Butter,  .06. 

Stewed  Prunes,  .1  5. 

Cookies,  .05.  Tea,  .05. 


BREAKFAST,  .32. 

Oatmeal,  Bananas,  Cream,  .12. 

Salt   Codfish,  Melted    Butter,   .08. 

Baked  Potatoes,  .03. 

Toast,  .04. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 

I) INNER,  .<>». 

Cream-of- French-Bean  Soup,  .16. 

Cheese  Pudding,  .25. 

Stewed  Tomatoes,  .10. 

Rice  Pudding  with  Raisins,  .15. 

Coffee,  .03. 

SUPPER,  .40. 

Lettuce-and-Egg  Salad,  .25. 

Baking-Powder  Biscuit,  .10. 
Ceylon  Tea,  .05. 


BREAKFAST,   .40. 

Baked  Oatmeal, Stewed  Dates,  Cream,  .12. 

Salted  Codfish  in  Cream  Sauce,  .15. 

Baked  Potatoes,  .03. 

Virginia  Spoon  Corn  Biead,  .08. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 

DINNER,   .98. 

Potato  Soup,  .08. 

Escalloped  Oysters,  .47. 

Cole-slaw,  .10. 

Macaroni  with  Cheese,  .12. 

Sliced  Oranges,  .18.      Coffee, 

SI  P PER,  .45. 

Poached  Eggs  on  Toast,  .13. 

Celery,  .15. 

Boiled  Rice,  .05.  Milk,  .07. 

Cocoa,  .05. 


.03. 


BREAKFAST,   .35. 

Rolled  Wheat,  Stewed  Apricots  (dried), 

Cream,  .12. 

Plain  Omelet,  .12. 

Potatoes  Heated  in  Milk,  .06. 

Toasted  Biscuit.       Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 

DINNER,  .80. 

Clam  Bouillon,  .15. 

Canned  Salmon,  Egg  Sauce,  .24. 

Boiled  Potatoes,  .03.     Cole-slaw,  .10. 

Canned  Peas,  .10. 

Cottage  Pudding,  Lemon  Sauce,  .15. 

Coffee,  .03. 

SUPPER,  .35. 

Welsh  Rarebit,  with  Macaroni,  .15. 

Cocoanut  Gingerbread,  .15. 

Tea,  .05. 


.07. 


BREAKFAST,  .47. 

Salt  Mackerel,  Broiled,  .25. 
Creamed  Potatoes,  .03.     Rye  Muffins, 
Fried  Rice,  Maple  Syrup,  .10. 
Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 

DINNER,  .82. 

Cream  of  Celery,  .08. 

Boiled  Cod,  Egg  Sauce,  .30. 

Boiled  Potatoes,  .03.     Pickled  Beets,  .04. 

String  Beans  (canned),  .12. 

Orange  Shortcake,  .22. 

Ccffee,  .03. 

SUPPER,  .37. 

Lettuce-and-Mackerel  Salad,  .14. 

Graham  Bread  and  Butter,  .08. 
Cake,  .10. 
Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 


BREAKFAST,  .28. 

Vitos,  with  Dates,  Cream, 

.14. 

Codfish  in  Cases,  Pickles, 

.09. 

Toasted  Muffins. 

Cereal  Coffee,  .05. 


DINNER,  .93. 

Cream-of-Corn  Soup,  .18. 
Salted  Salmon,  Boiled,  .25. 
Egg  Sauce,  .07. 
Boiled  Potatoes,  .03. 
Onions  in  Cream  Sauce,  .10. 
Tomato  Jelly,  Boiled  Dress- 
ing, .15. 
Baked  Tapioca  Custard,  .1 2. 
Coffee,  .03. 


SUPPER,  .59. 

Boston  Baked  Beans,  .15. 

Shredded- Wheat-Biscuit 

Brownbread,  .09. 

Cole-slaw.  .10. 

Boiled  Rice,  Milk,  .10. 

Cake,  .10. 

Tea,  .05. 


00 

Cm 


^ 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 

SEASONABLE  MENUS  FOR  ONE  WEEK  IN  MARCH. 

We  live  upon  not  what  we  eat,  but  what  we  digest. — Meinert. 


BREAKFAST. 

Shredded-Wheat  Biscuit,  Cream. 
Scalloped  Oysters.     Baked  Potatoes. 

Pickles  or  Hot-House  Cucumbers. 
Virginia  Spoon  Corn  Bread.     Coffee. 

DINK  JEM. 

Tomato  Soup. 

Leg  of  Mutton,  Roasted,  Currant  Jelly. 

Toasted  Wheat,  with  Bananas. 

Spinach  a  la  Creme. 

Succotash  (dried  Beans  and  Corn). 

Lettuce  Salad. 

Almond  Cake.  Charlotte  Russe. 

Cafe  Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Dry  Toast.  Smoked  Halibut. 

Dried  Peaches,  Stewed.     Tea. 


BREAKFAST. 

Granose  Flakes,  Cream. 

Poached  Eggs  in  Nests  of  Spinach. 

Oatmeal  Muffins. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Cream-of-Kornlet  Soup. 

Cold  Mutton.     Baked  Potatoes. 

Onions  in  Cream.       Spiced  Peaches. 

String-Bean  Salad  (canned). 

Orange  Shortcake. 

Cafe  Xoir. 

SUPPER. 

Salt  Codfish  in  Cream  Sauce. 

Dry  Toast.     Pim-olas. 

Cereal  Coffee. 


BREAKFAST. 

Quaker  Oats. 
Fish  Hash  (left-over  Haddock). 

Eggs  Scrambled  with  Tomatoes. 
Cornmeal  Muffins. 
Cereal  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Mutton-and-Pea  Salad. 

Baking-Powder  Biscuit. 

Prunes  in  Lemon  Jelly,  Whipped  Cream. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Rib  Roast,  Rolled,  Horseradish. 

Riced  Potatoes. 

Buttered  Parsnips.     Spinach. 

Baked  Bananas,  Currant-Jelly  Sauce. 

Cafe  Noir. 

BREAKFAST. 

Wheatena,  with  Baked  Bananas. 

Salt-Codfish  Balls,  Bacon. 

Cole-slaw. 

Breakfast  Corncake,  Maple  Syrup. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Roast  Beef,  Sliced  Thin. 

Baked  Potatoes.     Chocolate  Tapioca. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Beef  Broth,  with  Macaroni. 

Filletsof  Flounder  Stuffed  with  Forcemeat, 

Sauce  Tartare.     Stuffed  Onions. 
Lettuce  Salad.  Orange  Sherbet. 

Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Rolled  Oats,  Prunes,  Cream. 

Hashed  Mutton  on  Toast. 

Scrambled  Eggs.  Radishes. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Oyster  Stew.  Lettuce  Salad. 

Entire-Wheat  Bread  and  Butter. 

Wafers.     Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Mutton  Broth,  with  Macaroni. 

Baked  Haddock,  Bread  Stuffing;  Garnish, 

Fried  Oysters. 

Buttered  Peas.         Cole-slaw. 

Orange  Pie.  Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Wheatlet,  with  Raisins. 

Egg  Timbales,  Bread  Sauce. 

Olives.       '      Kornlet  Griddle  Cakes. 

Cereal  Coffee.     Cocoa. 

LUNCHEON. 

Cream  of  Spinach.     Parsnip  Fritters. 

Entire-Wheat  Maple-Sugar  Tea  Biscuit. 

Tea. 

DIXNER. 

Beef  Broth,  with  Tapioca. 

Baked  Halibut,  Pea  Puree. 

Tomato  Sauce.      Creamed  Oyster   Plant. 

Egg-and-Cress  Salad. 

Dried-Peach  Pie.     Cream.     Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Barley  Crystals,  Cream. 

Sweet  Oranges. 

Broiled  Ham,  Potatoes. 

Poached  Eggs. 

White  Mountain  Muffins. 

Cereal  Coffee. 


DINNER. 

Corn  Beef. 

Boiled  Potatoes,    Cabbage, 

Carrots. 

Xew  Beets  in  Salad. 

Junket,  with  Banana  Puree, 

Whipped  Cream. 

Coffee. 


SUPPER. 

Gluten  Grits,  Cream. 

Stewed  Oysters,  Crackers. 

Cranberry  Sauce  (sifted). 

Custard  Pie. 

Tea. 


THE  BOSTOAT  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZTNE. 


233 


IN   REFERENCE    TO    ECONOMICAL   MENUS, 

The  study  of  what  to  eat  is  man's  strongest  castle  of  health.  —  Shaftesbury. 


Whatever  may  be  the  origin  of  the 
custom  to  restrict  the  lenten  meals 
chiefly  to  eggs  and  the  flesh  of  fish, 
undoubtedly  a  more  general  observ- 
ance of  this  custom  would  be  produc- 
tive of  good  results.  It  is  an  erroneous 
idea  that  beef,  mutton,  etc.,  are  the 
only  foods  that  are  suitable  to  make 
strength.  Here  much  depends  on 
habit.  One  accustomed  to  the  stimu- 
lating effects  of  a  meat  diet  might  not, 
if  suddenly  deprived  of  this  kind  of 
food,  feel  as  active  as  before  ;  but  in 
the  end  he  might  find  himself  in  far 
better  condition.  The  elimination  by 
the  kidneys  of  the  waste  products  of 
meat  is  a  serious  tax  upon  those  organs ; 
so  that  a  diet  composed  of  a  variety  of 
proteids,  in  which  the  waste  elements 
are  reduced  to  a  minimum,  cannot  be 
other  than  a  health  measure.  Such  a 
diet  we  find  in  fish  and  in  the  cereals. 
These,  in  combination  with  cheese,  in 
some  cases,  may  be  made  available  for 
lenten  dietaries.  They  can  be  com- 
mended also  from  an  economical  point 
of  view. 

But  where  the  lenten  idea  is  not 
strictly  carried  out,  a  light  fish  dinner, 
twice  a  week,  is  a  consideration  greatly 
to  be  extolled.  It  is  said  that  the 
Emperor  Charles  V.  visited  the  grave 
of  the  Dutchman  named  Bitching,  who 
introduced  into  the  Netherlands  the 
systematic  preservation  of  herrings  by 
salting,  smoking,  and  drying,  as  a  bene- 
factor of  mankind. 

Fish,  let  us  observe,  would  be  more 
generally  relished,  if  more  pains  were 
taken   in  its  cooking,   and   also  in  its 


serving.  Boiled  fish,  even  when  it  is 
cooked  to  perfection,  is  often  placed 
in  direct  contact  with  a  cold  platter, 
and  by  the  time  it  reaches  the  table  it 
is  almost  literally  swimming  in  its  na- 
tive element.  If  the  fish  be  properly 
drained,  a  folded  napkin  will  absorb 
all  superfluous  liquid.  You  may  dis- 
pense with  the  linen,  when  the  fish  is 
baked  upon  a  rack ;  but  in  this  case 
plenty  of  parsley,  or,  a  little  parsley 
in  combination  with  potatoes  in  some 
form,  or  a  puree  of  peas,  will  ensure  a 
really  handsome  dish. 

Many  kinds  of  fish  may  be  cut  in 
fillets ;  and  these,  when  served,  show 
no  unsightly  waste  portions.  When 
fish  is  treated  in  this  way,  the  trim- 
mings, with  a  few  bits  of  vegetables, 
should  be  made  to  do  duty  in  the  form 
of  stock,  in  which  the  fillets  them- 
selves may  be  cooked  ;  or  the  stock  may 
be  used  as  a  basis  of  the  sauce  to  be 
served  with  the  fish.  In  making  stock, 
cover  the  ingredients  with  cold  water 
and  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling-point, 
then  simmer  thereafter. 

In  boiling  fish,  the  quantity  of  water 
should  be  adjusted  to  the  size  of  the 
fish  ;  in  no.  case  should  there  be  more 
than  enough  to  cover  the  fish.  The 
temperature  of  the  salted,  acidulated 
water  should  be  at  the  boiling-point, 
the  moment  the  fish,  free  from  skin,  is 
immersed.  Thereafter,  during  the  en- 
tire process  of  cooking,  let  the  liquid 
bubble  simply  at  one  side.  The  time 
of  cooking  depends  upon  the  thickness 
of  the  fish,  and  is  best  determined  by 
testing.       If    the    fish,   in    its   thickest 


234 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


part,  separates  easily  from  the  bone, 
it  is  cooked,  and  should  be  removed  at 
once.  Too  long  cooking  renders  the 
flesh  dry  and  wooly.  If  the  fish  is  to 
be  served  au  naturel,  without  remov- 
ing the  skin,  it  will  present  a  better 
appearance,  if  it  be  set  to  cook  in  luke- 
warm water,  and  let  rise  slowly  to  the 
boiling-point,  and  then,  as  before,  cook 
at  the  simmering-point. 

Lima  or  other  dried  beans  may  be 
substituted  for  the  French  beans,  given 
for  the  first  time  in  the  menus  of  this 
issue.  The  French  beans  are  of  a 
delicate  green  color,  and  are,  probably, 
the  same  variety  of  bean  in  a  dried 
state  as  those  put  up  in  glass  and 
known  to  us  as  flageolets.  The  cost 
of  the  dried  bean  is  thirty-five  cents 
per  pound ;  one-fourth  a  pound  is 
sufficient  for  a  family  of  five  at  a 
meal  where  some  other  substantial  is 
served.  To  preserve  the  green  color, 
set  to  cook,  without  soaking,  in  cold 
salted  water,  bring  quickly  to  the  boil- 
ing-point, change  this  water  for  other 
boiling  water,  salted  as  before,  and  re- 
plenish with  boiling  water  as  needed. 
Let  simmer  until  perfectly  tender.  Sea- 
son with  pepper  and  butter ;  onion 
juice  or  lemon  juice  and  chopped  pars- 
ley may  be  added  at  discretion. 

The  canned  salmon  to  be  served  with 
boiled  potatoes  and  egg  sauce  may  be 
heated  in  boiling  water  before  the  can 
is  opened.  In  some  localities  frozen 
salmon  at  eighteen  cents  a  pound  may 
be  substituted.  Salmon  is  probably 
less  injured  by  freezing  than  any  other 
variety  of  fish,  and  a  middle  cut  from 
the  frozen  fish  makes  a  substantial 
and  attractive  plat  when  treated  prop- 
erly. Before  cooking,  thaw  by  letting 
stand  in  cold  water  to  cover,  then  cook 
without  delay. 


A  little  hot  cream  poured  over  the 
salt  mackerel  broiled  for  the  breakfast 
Friday  will  be  found  a  pleasing  change 
from  the  butter  usually  served  with 
this  dish.  Maitre  d'hotel  butter,  or  a 
drawn-butter  sauce,  gives  other  varia- 
tions, where  the  dish  is  served  often. 


Beefsteak  Pie. 
(Cost,  50  cents.  To  serve  six  persons.) 
Chop  fine  two  pounds  of  tender  steak 
cut  from  the  round ;  pour  over  it  one 
pint  of  boiling  water,  add  an  onion  cut 
in  halves  and  two  stalks  of  celery,  and 
let  simmer  until  tender,  replenishing 
the  water  when  necessary  ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  turn  into  a  baking- 
dish  after  removing  the  celery  and 
onion.  Sift  together  one  pint  of  flour, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  four 
level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder ; 
with  the  tips  of  the  fingers  work  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  then  add  milk 
and  water  mixed  to  form  a  biscuit 
dough.  Turn  on  to  the  board  and  pat 
out  to  cover  the  top  of  the  dish.  Make 
two  cuts  in  the  centre  and  press  down 
tightly  over  the  meat,  and  bake  about 
twenty  or  twenty-five  minutes. 

Halibut  Saute. 
(Cost,  27 'cents.  To  serve  four  persons.) 
Have  a  slice  of  halibut  cut  an  inch 
thick;  wipe,  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  cover  on  both  sides  with  fine 
bread  or  cracker  crumbs;  saute  in  hot 
fat  tried  out  from  salt  pork  until  well 
browned  on  one  side,  then  turn  and 
saute'  on  the  other  side.      Serve  with 

STEWED  TOMATOES. 
(Cost,  16  cents.  To  serve  six  persons.) 
Stew  a  can  of  well-aired  tomatoes 
ten  minutes  ;  add  salt,  pepper,  and  half 
a  cup  of  fine  cracker  or  bread  crumbs, 
and  cook  five  minutes ;  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  serve  at  once. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


235 


IN   REFERENCE   TO    SEASONABLE   MENUS, 


Food  seasonable  in  March  varies 
with  the  locality.  The  markets  even  in 
town  and  city  of  the  same  locality  differ; 
but  everywhere,  in  March,  fish  is  the 
food  in  common  demand.  In  the  mar- 
kets of  our  Northern  cities,  shad  from 
the  South,  and,  near  the  close  of  the 
month,  brook  trout,  are  among  the 
luxuries.  In  Washington  and  other 
Southern  city  markets,  mackerel  from 
the  vicinity  of  Boston  are  greatly  rel- 
ished by  the  epicure.  In  all  markets, 
rock  fish,  bass,  and  those  varieties  of 
the  finny  tribe  that  are  restricted  to  no 
particular  season,  because  they  are  to 
be  had  at  all  seasons,  may  be  bought 
at  moderate  prices. 

In  March  the  lobster  begins  his 
yearly  migration  from  deep  water  to  the 
coast ;  in  autumn,  those  that  are  left 
to  tell  the  tale  of  their  wanderings 
return  again  to  the  deep  sea.  During 
April  and  May  the  largest  numbers  are 
in  motion.  Then  the  fish  markets  are 
resplendent  with  the  vivid  color  of  the 
lobster's  shell,  and  the  adjacent  coun- 
try, for  miles  around,  is  resonant  with 
the  "buy-lobe,  buy-lobe,"  of  the  hawk- 
ers of  this  popular  crustacean.  That 
the  lobster's  annual  trip  is  accomplished 
in  safety  but  a  few  times  is  attested 
by  the  average  size  of  these  creatures 
when  they  are  caught.  They  have 
been  known  to  reach  a  weight  of  fifteen 
pounds,  but  a  five-pound  lobster  is 
rarely  seen.  As  the  lobster  grows  at 
about  a  quarter  a  pound  a  year,  it  is  a 
simple  matter  to  determine  his  age, 
and  the  number  of  times  he  has  missed 
the  tempting  bait  in  the  lobster  trap. 

What  is  probably  the  biggest  lobster 
every    known    was    captured   off    Yar- 


mouth, Nova  Scotia,  last  year,  and  was 
sent  to  Boston,  It  measured  nearly 
seven  feet  from  tip  to  tip  of  its  colos- 
sal claws,  and  the  body  was  three  feet 
long.  The  legs  were  about  an  inch  in 
diameter. 

Vegetables  and  strawberries  from 
the  South  or  the  hot-house  are  high  in 
price,  while  in  flavor  they  are  not  to  be 
compared  with  the  succulent  green 
produce  and  fruit  that  are  home-grown 
and  marketable  later  in  the  season. 
With  the  exception  of  an  occasional 
indulgence  in  spinach,  a  green  pep- 
per, a  head  of  lettuce,  or  a  bunch  of 
cress,  the  prudent  housewife  will  do 
well  to  pass  by  these  early  products  as 
a  delusion  and  a  snare.  Indeed,  many 
of  the  dried  or  canned  vegetables,  when 
properly  treated,  as  well  as  our  stand- 
ard winter  vegetables,  are  susceptible 
of  many  variations  in  treatment  to  lend 
piquancy  to  an  early  spring  dietary. 

In  February,  oranges  are  most  plenti- 
ful, and  this  esculent  affords  a  whole- 
some and  welcome  accessory  to  our 
dietaries.  Food  they  are  not ;  but, 
when  easily  procurable,  and  economy 
needs  to  be  practised,  the  substantial 
part  of  the  day's  menu  may  be  selected 
from  inexpensive  forms  of  proteid,  so 
as  to  allow  occasionally  indulgence  in 
this  luxury.  The  banana  has  a  true 
food  value,  and  when  cooked  it  is 
wholesome  as  well  as  nutritious.  This 
fruit  may  well  supplement  the  more 
substantial  dish  of  the  dinner,  when  the 
latter  is  lacking  in  quantity  or  quality. 

In  preparing  the  scalloped  oysters, 
the  taste  will  be  improved,  if  the  crumbs 
be  stirred  into  the  melted  butter  before 
they  are  added  to  the  dish  ;  at  the  same 


236 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


time  the  top  will  take  a  more  uniformly 
brown  appearance.  One  pint  of  crumbs 
stirred  into  a  generous  half  a  cup  of 
butter  will  be  found  an  acceptable 
quantity  to  use  with  a  quart  of  oysters. 
The  dish  will  be  too  moist,  if  the  oyster 
liquor  in  full  measure  be  used  ;  two,  or 
at  most  four,  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid 
added  to  the  last  layer  of  oysters  will 
be  an  ample  allowance.  Triangular- 
shaped  croutons,  with  sprigs  of  parsley, 
provide  a  simple  garnish  for  this  favo- 
rite dish  ;  it  is  a  dish,  however,  too 
rich,  by  far,  for  children  —  for  adults, 
even,  who  have  tendency  to  weak  or 
impaired  digestion. 

Sunday,  toasted  wheat  with  bananas 
is  served  in  the  place  of  the  potatoes 
with  the  mutton.  The  wheat  is  cooked 
in  the  same  manner  as  for  breakfast; 
it  may  be  seasoned  with  butter  and  a 
little  chopped  parsley  ;  or,  omitting  the 


parsley,  it  may  be  served  with  the 
baked  bananas,  a  spoonful  with  each 
half  a  banana. 

For  breakfast  Monday,  reheat  the 
spinach  left  from  the  Sunday  dinner ; 
arrange  in  nests  upon  rounds  of  but- 
tered toast  with  a  carefully  poached 
egg  above,  —  a  truly  delectable  com- 
bination this,  and  hygienic  in  every 
respect ! 

Reserve  a  dozen  of  the  choicest 
oysters,  when  preparing  the  oyster 
stew  on  Tuesday,  to  fry  as  a  garnish 
for  the  baked  fish  to  be  served  at  din- 
ner. Let  the  oysters  be  fried  in  deep 
fat.  If  the  fat  was  strained  and  clari- 
fied after  it  was  used  last,  heating  to 
the  proper  temperature  will  require 
only  a  few  minutes.  In  this  case  a 
skimmer  may  serve  for  frying-bas- 
ket ;  certainly  it  can  be  washed  more 
easily. 


RECIPES  FROM  VEGETARIAN  DEMONSTRATION  AT  THE 
BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL. 


Vegetable  Soup. 
Cook  one-third  a  cup,  each,  of  car- 
rot and  turnip  cut  in  small  pieces,  half 
a  cup  of  celery  cut  in  one- fourth-inch 
pieces,  and  half  an  onion  cut  in  thin 
slices,  ten  minutes  in  four  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
one  cup  and  a  half  of  potatoes,  pared 
and  cut  in  small  pieces ;  cover,  and 
cook  two  minutes ;  then  add  a  quart 
of  boiling  water  and  cook  one  hour. 
Mash  the  vegetables  with  a  vegetable 
press,  so  there  shall  be  no  large  pieces; 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and 
half  a  tablespoonful  of  fine-chopped 
parsley.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper. 


Mushrooms  with   Wheatena  Crisps. 

Remove  the  stems  from  a  pound  of 
mushrooms,  chop  fine,  and  let  simmer 
in  a  cup  of  water ;  wash  and  peel  the 
caps  and  break  them  in  small  pieces. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dredge 
with  flour.  Saute  in  plenty  of  butter 
in  a  hot  frying-pan  ;  add  three-fourths 
a  cup  of  the  liquor  from  the  stems  and 
trimmings,  and  let  cook  two  minutes; 
then  add  three-fourths  a  tablespoonful 
of  parsley  and  serve  with 

Will  A  I  IN  \    CRISPS. 

Add  three-fourths  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  to  two  cups  and  a  half  of  boiling 
water ;  then  sprinkle  in  gradually, 
stirring    all    the    time,    half    a    cup    of 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


237 


wheatena ;  let  boil  five  minutes,  then 
cook  over  hot  water  thirty-five  minutes. 
Pour  into  a  tin  box  (empty  baking- 
powder  box),  cover  to  keep  the  top 
from  hardening,  and  let  stand  until 
firm  and  very  cold ;  then  cut  in  thin 
slices,  egg  and  bread-crumb,  and  fry  in 
olive  oil,  smoking  hot. 

Lentil  Croquettes. 
Let  one  cup  of  dried  lentils  and  one- 
third  a  cup  of  dried  lima  beans  soak 
over  night.  Drain,  add  two  quarts  of 
water,  half  an  onion,  a  stalk  of  celery, 
four  slices  of  carrot,  and  a  sprig  of 
parsley.  Cook  until  soft,  remove  sea- 
sonings, and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Add 
one  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  one 
beaten  egg,  and  salt  and  pepper  and 
onion  and  lemon  juice  to  taste.  Melt 
one  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  butter, 
add  one  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of 
flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one-third 
a  cup  of  cream  ;  bring  to  the  boiling- 
point  and  add  to  the  first  mixture  ; 
cool,  shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  in  egg,  and 
again  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Drain,  and  serve  with 

TOMATO    SAUCE. 

Brown  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  the 
butter,  then  add  gradually  a  cup  and  a 
half  of  tomato  pulp.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper. 

Nict-and- Celery  Salad. 

Remove  the  centre  from  a  well-shaped 
cabbage  and  trim  the  shell  to  stand 
evenly  on  a  serving-dish.  Shred  one 
cup  of  the  centre  fine  and  let  stand  in 
cold  water  until  well  crisped.  Cut  two 
cups  of  celery  in  fine  shreds,  and  crisp 
in  water,  to  which  a  slice  of  lemon  has 
been  added.  When  ready  to  serve, 
drain  the  cabbage  and  celery  and  dry 
on  a  cloth  ;  add  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
pecan-nut   meats   broken   in  pieces  or 


sliced.  Moisten  with  cream  dressing 
and  serve  in  the  cabbage  bowl.  Gar- 
nish with  celery  plumes  and  parsley. 

CREAM    DRESSING. 

Mix  half  a  tablespoonful,  each,  of 
salt  and  mustard,  three-fourths  a  table- 
spoonful of  sugar,  one  egg  slightly 
beaten,  two  tablespoonfuls  and  a  half 
of  melted  butter,  three-fourths  a  cup  of 
cream,  and  one-fourth  a  cup  of  vinegar. 
Cook  over  hot  water  until  the  mixture 
thickens,  strain,  and  let  cool. 
Entire-  Wheat  Bread. 

To  two  cups  of  scalded  milk  add 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-third 
a  cup  of  molasses.  When  lukewarm 
add  one  yeastcake  dissolved  in  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  lukewarm  water  and 
four  cups  and  a  half  of  coarse  entire- 
wheat  flour.  Beat  thoroughly,  cover, 
and  let  rise.  Beat  again  and  turn  into 
buttered  bread-pans,  having  pans  half 
full.  Again  let  rise,  and  bake  forty-five 
to  fifty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 
Salpicon  of  Fruits. 

Mix  sections  of  orange  removed  with- 
out membrane,  Malaga  grapes  skinned 
and  seeded,  bananas  sliced,  and  pine- 
apple in  small  bits.  For  each  quart  of 
fruit  make  a  syrup  of  a  cup  of  sugar 
and  half  a  cup  of  water ;  let  boil 
until  quite  thick,  flavor  with  wine  or 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  pour  over  the 
fruit.  Serve  thoroughly  chilled  in 
orange  baskets,  or  shells,  or  from  a 
glass  receptacle. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

In  a  well  aired  and  scalded  coffee- 
pot mix  one-third  a  cup  of  cereal  coffee 
with  one-third  a  beaten  egg  and  one- 
third  a  cup  of  cold  water  ;  pour  over 
the  mixture  five  cups  of  boiling  water. 
Let  boil  five  minutes.  Add  half  a  cup 
of  cold  water,  let  stand  ten  minutes, 
then  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 


238 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


RECIPES  USED  IN  PRECEDING  MENUS. 

WITH  ILLUSTRATIONS  OF   ORIGINAL  DISHES   BY   THE   EDITOR. 

(In  all  recipes  where  flour  is  used,  unless  otherwise  stated,  the  flour  is  measmed 
after  sifting  once.  When  flour  is  measured  by  cups,  the  cup  is  filled  with  a 
spoon  and  a  level  cupful  is  meant.  A  tablespoonful  or  a  teaspoonful  of  any 
designated  material  is  a  level  spoonful  of  such  material.) 


CUP5  A 


ND  SPOONS  SHOWING'METHOD  OF  MEASURING, 


Consomme  a   la   Ma  nee  lie. 

Saute  ten  minutes  in  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  without  browning,  half 
a  carrot,  a  small  turnip,  and  half  a 
head  of  blanched  celery,  all  cut  juli- 
enne fashion;  then  cook  in  boiling 
water  half  an  hour,  or  until  tender ; 
skim,  drain,  and  add  to  three  pints  of 
consomme,  with  a  cup  of  roasted  chest- 
nuts, cut  into  small  strips.  A  table- 
spoonful  of  cooked  game,  also  cut  into 
juliennes,  is  sometimes  added. 
Cream  of  Spinach. 

Wash  the  spinach  very  thoroughly, 
then  boil  as  usual,  in  a  small  quantity 
of  salted  water;  save  the  water,  chop 
the  spinach,  and  pass  through  a  sieve. 
For  one  pint  of  pulp  and  liquid  scald 
one  quart  of  milk.  Melt  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  butter ;  cook  in  it  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  flour  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  with  pepper  to  taste  ;  dilute  with 
the  spinach,  heat  to   the  boiling-point, 


and,  when  ready  to  serve,  stir  in  the 
hot  milk.  Serve  with  croutons  or 
Boston  crackers,  split,  buttered,  and 
browned  in  the  oven. 

Fish   Co?isomme. 

Cover  five  pounds  of  trimmings  (the 
heads,  and  portions  containing  but  lit- 
tle flesh,  etc.)  with  cold  water ;  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  black  pepper,  six  onions,  sliced, 
and  three  teaspoonfuls  of  savory  herbs; 
bring  to  the  boiling-point,  then  let 
simmer  slowly  two  hours  ;  strain  and 
cool.  If  desired,  clear  with  whites 
and  shells  of  eggs.  When  reheated, 
and  ready  to  serve,  add  half  a  cup  of 
Madeira  or  sherry,  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  salt  and  pepper  as  needed. 

Matelote  of  Haddock  and  Oysters. 

Divide  a  haddock  into  fillets,  three 
inches  by  two.  Make  a  broth  with 
the  head,  tail,  and  trimmings  of  the 
fish,  the  liquor  from  a  pint  of  oysters, 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZTNE. 


239 


two  onions,  black  pepper,  salt,  and 
sweet  herbs.  Boil  separately  four  or 
five  large  mild  onions,  until  nearly  ten- 
der, then  cut  in  slices.  Put  a  layer  of 
onion  in  a  saucepan ;  upon  this  ar- 
range the  fillets  of  fish  and  the  oysters, 
dust  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover  with 
the  remaining  slices  of  onion,  pour  in 
the  broth  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  close 
the  pan  tightly;  let  simmer  very  gently 
until  the  fillets  are  tender,  then  strain 
off  the  broth.    Arrange  the  onions  upon 


salt  and  pepper,  and  a  few  drops  of 
onion  juice,  if  desired.  Spread  on  one 
half  of  each  fillet  a  tablespoonful  of 
mashed  potato  (about  one  cup  should 
be  prepared)  mixed  with  the  beaten 
yolk  of  an  egg,  and  seasoned  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  pep- 
per. Fold  the  other  half  of  each  fillet 
over  the  potato,  cover  with  crumbs, 
dip  in  the  white  of  the  egg  beaten  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  again 


STUFFED  FILLETS  OF  FLOUNDER. 


a  hot  dish,  place  the  fillets  above,  and 
pour  the  broth,  thickened  with  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  over  the  fillets.  Do  not 
let  the  broth  boil  after  the  yolks,  care- 
fully diluted  with  a  little  of  the  broth, 
are  added.  Fresh-water  fish,  or  sea 
fish  other  than  haddock,  prepared  in 
this  way  are  excellent.  The  oysters 
may  be  omitted. 

Stuffed  Fillets  of  Flounder. 
Take  fillets  from  a  flounder  weighing 
two  pounds  and  a   half,  season  with 


cover  with  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Drain  on  soft  paper,  then  insert  a  short 
piece  of  macaroni  in  the  pointed  end 
of  each  fillet,  and  cover  this  with  a 
paper  frill.  Garnish  with  lemon  and 
parsley,  and  serve  with  onion  pure'e  or 

TOMATO    SAUCE. 

Simmer  half  a  can  of  tomatoes  with 
a  slice  of  onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley, 
three  cloves  and  three  peppercorns,  a 
bit  of  bay  leaf,  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  fifteen  minutes  ;  pass  through 


240 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


a  sieve  and  add  to  one-fourth  a  cup, 
each,  of  butter  and  Hour,  cooked  to- 
gether; then  let  boil  ten  minutes. 
Onion  Purie. 
To  one  cup  and  a  half  of  onions, 
boiled  and  passed  through  a  sieve,  add 
one  third  a  cup  of  cream,  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs  (these  may  be  omitted),  and 
salt  and  paprica  to  taste.  Beat  to- 
gether thoroughly  and  reheat  without 
boiling  before  serving. 


fine,  has  been  added.  Use  tarragon 
vinegar,  if  agreeable,  in  making  the 
mayonnaise  dressing. 

Baked  Halibut  with  Puree  of  Peas. 

Select  a  solid  piece  of  halibut  weigh- 
ing about  three  pounds.  Put  on  the 
rack  in  a  baking-pan,  brush  liberally 
with  butter,  and  dredge  with  salt ;  or 
omit  the  butter  and  spread  thin  slices 
of  salt  pork  over  the  top  of  the  fish. 
Set  in  a  fast  oven  ;  after  ten  or  fifteen 


BAKED  HALIBUT  WITH   PUREE  OF  PEAS. 


Fillets  of  Flounder  Stuffed  with 
Forcemeat. 
Into  half  a  pound  of  firm,  raw  fish, 
chopped  very  fine  and  passed  through 
a  sieve,  beat  the  white  of  one  egg,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of 
paprica  ;  then  beat  in  nearly  one  cup 
of  thick  cream  beaten  stiff.  Use  in  the 
preceding  recipe  in  the  place  of  the 
potato.  Serve  as  above,  or  with  may- 
onnaise dressing,  to  one  cup  of  which 
atablespoonful,  each,  of  capers,  cucum- 
ber pickles,  and  parsley,  chopped  very 


minutes  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water  and 
reduce  the  temperature ;  baste  every 
ten  minutes,  dredging  with  flour  after 
each  basting,  and  at  last  with  butter. 
Let  cook  until  the  central  bone  sep- 
arates easily  from  the  fish.  When 
baked,  remove  the  skin  and  bone  and 
decorate  with  a 

PUREE    OF    PEAS. 

Drain  a  can  of  peas,  let  stand  in 
boiling  water  five  minutes,  then  drain 
again  and  pass  through  a  sieve  ;  add 
half   a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of 


THE  BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL   MAGAZ/XE. 


241 


paprica,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter :  let  simmer  until  rather  dry,  then 
force  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube. 
Serve  hollandaise  sauce  also,  if  de- 
sired, with  the  fish. 
Rolled  Rib  Roast  with  Rice  J  Potatoes. 
Have  the  backbone  and  ribs  re- 
moved for  the  soup  kettle,  and  skewer 
the  meat  into  a  round  shape  ;  dredge 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour.  Set  on  a 
rack  in   the    dripping-pan.    into   a   hot 


beat  thoroughly  with  perforated  cake 
spoon,  and  pass  through  the  ricer  or 
vegetable  press  about  the  meat. 
Mutton  Stew  with  Canned  Peas. 
Cut  a  breast  of  mutton  into  small 
pieces  ;  dredge  with  flour  and  saute'  to 
a  golden  brown  in  drippings  or  the  fat 
of  salt  pork  ;  cover  with  boiling  water 
and  let  simmer  until  tender,  seasoning 
with  salt  and  pepper  during  the  latter 
part   of    the    cooking.     Take    out   the 


ROLLED  RIB  ROAST  WITH   RICED  POTATOES. 


oven,  and.  when  the  outside  is  seared 
over,  add  a  little  dripping  melted  in 
hot  water:  reduce  the  heat,  and  bake 
i  weight  from  six  to  eight  pounds)  from 
sixty  to  ninety  minutes,  basting  often. 
Garnish  with  a  stem  of  cress,  and  sur- 
round with 

RICED    POTATOES. 

Pass  through  a  ricer  eight  hot  boiled 
potatoes  ;  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
about  half  a  cup  of  hot  milk  or  cream  ; 


meat,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  add  one  can 
of  peas  drained,  reheated  in  boiling 
water,  and  drained  again  ;  add  more 
seasoning  if  needed,  and  pour  over  the 
mutton  on  the  serving-dish.  Pigeons 
cut  in  halves  may  be  prepared  in  the 
same  manner,  and  well-cooked  French 
beans  (dried)  may  take  the  place  of 
the  peas. 

Corned  Beef  with  Vegetables. 
Select  a  piece   of  corned  beef   from 
the  thick  end  of  the  second  cut  below 


242 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


the  prime  ribs  ;  cover  with  cold  water, 
let  heat  to  the  boiling-point,  then  skim 
and  let  simmer  until  the  meat  is  tender. 
When  cooked,  if  time  allows,  let  stand 
an  hour  in  the  water  where  it  will  keep 
hot ;  then  remove,  heat  the  liquor  to 
the  boiling-point,  and  in  it  cook  pared 
potatoes  and  carrots  until  tender.  Cut 
a  cabbage  into  quarters,  remove  the 
hard  centre,  and  cook  in  a  large  open 
kettle  in  boiling  water  with  half  a  red 
pepper ;  when   tender  stir  one  or  two 


oughly  heated,  then  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  lemon  juice  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  granulated  gelatine  soaked  in 
cold  water  and  dissolved  over  hot 
water  ;  mix  thoroughly,  and  pour  into 
the  bottom  of  six  custard  cups.  When 
cold  and  set,  heat  one  quart  of  milk 
with  half  a  cup  of  sugar  to  blood  heat, 
remove  from  the  fire,  and  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  extract  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  liquid  rennet,  or  one  junket 
tablet  dissolved  in  a  tablespoonful  of 


CORNED  BEEF  WITH  VEGETABLES. 


teaspoonfuls  of  soda  into  the  water,  let 
the  effervescence  completely  cover  the 
cabbage,  then  drain  at  once  and  pour 
two  quarts  of  boiling  water  over  the 
cabbage ;  press  out  the  water  and  serve 
with  the  carrots  cut  in  halves  about  the 
beef. 

Jiuiket  with  Banana  Puree. 

Pass  the  pulp  of  two  bananas  through 

a  vegetable    press    or    ricer,    add  two 

teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  and  one-fourth  a 

cup  of  water  ;  let   simmer  until    thor- 


water  ;  mix  thoroughly,  and  pour  over 
the  banana  in  the  cups.  Serve  with  or 
without  whipped  cream. 

Maple-Sugar  Tea  Biscuit. 
Sift  together  one  quart  of  sifted 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  three 
level  tablespoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 
Work  into  these  ingredients  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  and  then  mix  to  a 
dough  with  milk,  or  milk  and  water. 
Cut  the  dough  until  light  and  spongy, 
then  pat  out   into   a  rectangular  sheet 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


243 


with  the  rolling-pin,  spread  with  maple 
sugar,  and  roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll.  Cut 
from  the  end  in  rounds.  Bake  in  a 
buttered  pan,  and  serve  hot  with  butter. 
Egg  Timbaks. 
Beat  six  eggs  until  a  spoonful  can 
be  taken  up ;  add  a  scant  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  pep- 
per, twenty  drops  of  onion  juice,  and 
one  cup  and  a  half  of  rich  milk,  and 
strain  into  buttered  timbale  moulds. 
Bake  standing   in   a   pan  of   hot  water 


tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  a  scant 
half-teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Orange  Pie. 
Cream  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter; 
add  three-fourths  a  cup  of  sugar,  the 
juice  of  an  orange,  and  half  the  grated 
rind,  together  with  the  juice,  of  half  a 
lemon  ;  beat  until  light,  then  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  the  white 
of  one  beaten  until  light.  Bake  with 
one  crust.  When  partly  cold  cover  with 
a  meringue  made  of  the  stiffly-beaten 


EGG  TiMBALES. 


about  twenty  minutes,  or  until  the  mix- 
ture is  firm  to  the  touch  ;  turn  from 
the  moulds  on  to  a  hot  platter,  pour 
about  them  bread  sauce,  and  sprinkle 
both  timbales  and  sauce  with  half  a 
cup  of  fine  crumbs  browned  in  butter. 

BREAD    SAUCE. 

Cook  a  slice  of  onion,  with  a  clove 
or  two  and  half  a  cup  of  fine  bread 
crumbs,  from  the  centre  of  the  loaf,  in 
a  pint  of  milk  an  hour  over  hot  water. 
Remove  the  onion  and  cloves,  add  two 


whites  of  two  eggs,  to  which  three  level 
tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  have 
been  added  gradually,  and  then  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  folded  into  the 
mixture. 

Orange  Shortcake. 
Cream  one-third  a  cup  of  butter ; 
add  gradually  one  cup  of  granulated 
sugar,  then  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  beaten 
until  light-colored  and  thick ;  now  add 
alternately  half  a  cup  of  milk  and  one 
cup    and    three-fourths    of    flour,    into 


244 


7  HE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


which  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder  have  been  sifted.  Bake  in  two 
shallow  tins  lined  with  buttered  paper. 
Slice  eight  or  ten  oranges,  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  and  arrange  between  the 
layers  and  around  the  cake.  Sprinkle 
the  top  of  the  cake  with  powdered 
sugar  and  garnish  with  sections  of 
orange  from  which  the  membrane  has 


the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon  ;  fold 
in  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  until 
dry,  then  add  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Roll  out  into  a  thin  sheet  and 
cut  into  shapes ;  brush  over  the  top  of 
the  dough  with  beaten  white  of  egg, 
sprinkle  with  coarse  granulated  sugar, 
candied  fruit,  and  chopped  nuts.     Bake 


ORANGE  SHORTCAKE. 


been  removed;  or,  instead  of  the  sugar, 
use  a 

BOILED    FROSTING. 

Boil  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar 
and  half  a  cup  of  water  until  the  syrup 
threads  ;  then  pour  in  a  fine  stream  on 
to  the  whites  of  one,  two,  or  three  eggs 
(as  desired)  beaten  until  foamy;  beat 
until  cool,  standing  in  a  dish  of  water, 
then  pour  upon  the  cake.  Spread 
evenly,  and  decorate  as  before.  Serve 
at  once. 

German   Crises. 

Beat  one  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream  ; 
add  gradually  two  cups  of  sugar  and 


in  a  slow  oven.  When  baked  they 
should  be  of  a  delicate  straw  color. 
Coffee  Bavarian  Cream. 
Soak  half  a  box  of  gelatine  in  half  a 
cup  of  clear  black  coffee  ;  chill,  and 
whip  three  cups  of  thin  cream  ;  keep 
the  whipped  cream  on  ice  ;  add  to  the 
cream  that  does  not  whip  enough  milk 
to  make  one  pint  in  all,  and  scald  in  a 
double  boiler.  Beat  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs ;  add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one- 
fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  pour  the 
hot  milk  on  to  the  sugar  and  eggs,  a 
little  at  a  time ;  mix  well ;  return  to 
boiler,  and  cook  until  the  mixture  coats 


THE  BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


245 


the  spoon  ;  add  the  gelatine ;  strain, 
and  stir  until  the  mixture  begins  to 
thicken,  then  fold  in  the  whipped 
cream,  and,  when  stiff  enough  to  drop 
from  the  spoon,  turn  into  a  mould. 
Serve  when  thoroughly  chilled,  and  set 
with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored. 
Entire-  Wheat  and  Rye-Meal  Muffins. 
Sift  together  one  cup  of  entire-wheat 
flour,  one  cup  of  rye  meal,  one-fourth  a 


down  from  the  surface  to  the  centre  at 
one  side  of  a  membrane  enclosing  a 
section  of  pulp,  then  cut  down  close 
to  the  pulp  on  the  other  side  of  the 
membrane ;  a  third  time  cut  down  to 
the  centre,  close  to  the  next  mem- 
brane, and  take  out  the  pulp  thus 
loosened,  in  one  piece ;  then  cut  down 
close  to  the  other  side  of  a  membrane, 
and  again  close  to  the  next  membrane, 
taking  out  the    pulp    as    before.      So 


WAYS  TO  SERVE  ORANGES. 


cup  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  four  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder.  Beat  one  egg  lightly,  add 
about  one  cup  of  milk,  and  stir  into 
the  dry  ingredients ;  then  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  and 
bake  in  hot  gem-pans  about  twenty-five 
minutes. 

Sections    of  Orange  Palp    Freed  from 
Membrane. 
Peel  an  orange  (Florida  preferred). 
With   a  thin-bladed,  sharp  knife  cut 


proceed,  until  all  the  pulp  is  removed, 
when  the  membrane  or  framework  of 
the  orange  will  be  left  in  one  piece. 
Sections  of  Orange  Held  on  Band  oj 
Peel. 
Score  the  peel  of  an  orange  so  as  to 
leave  a  solid  band,  about  an  inch  wide, 
around  the  centre,  and  remove  the  rest 
of  the  peel.  Sever  the  band  at  the 
juncture  of  two  sections,  then  separate 
the  sections  from  each  other,  leaving 
all  attached  to  the  band. 


246 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


Orange  in  Sections,  Peel  Retained. 

Score  the  orange  in  eighths,  from 
the  stem  nearly  to  the  blossom  end. 
and  carefully  loosen  the  peel  ;  then 
loosen  the  sections  from  one  another, 
without  removing  them  from  the  peel 
at  the  blossom  end.     Serve  in  this  way, 


thick  and  light-colored  ;  add  gradually 
one  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  then  fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs, 
one-third  a  cup  of  grated  chocolate, 
half  a  cup  of  blanched  and  powdered 
almonds,  and  three-fourths  a  cup  of 
cracker  dust  mixed  with  one  teaspoon- 


ALMOND  CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 


or  curl  the  points  of  the  peel  to  form  a 
border  around  the  base  of  the  orange. 
Serve  with  other  fruit,  or  on  individual 
plates. 

Almond  Charlotte  Russc. 
Beat    the    yolks  of    four   eggs   until 


ful  of  baking-powder.  Bake  in  small 
buttered  tins  about  twenty-five  minutes. 
Cut  out  the 'centre  from  each  cake  and 
fill  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored  ;  decorate  the  cream  with  can- 
died cherries.  —  Miss  Cohen. 


Queries  and  Answers, 


This  department  is  for  the  benefit  and  free  use  of  our  subscribers. 
Questions  relating  to  menus  and  recipes,  and  those  pertaining  to  culinary 
science  and  domestic  economics  in  general,  will  be  cheerfully  answered 
by  the  Editor.  Communications  for  this  department  must  reach  us  before  the  first  of  the  month 
preceding  that  in  which  the  answers  are  expected  to  appear.  Address  queries  to  Janet  M.  Hill, 
Editor,  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine,  3J2  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


Query  303.  —  Mrs.  S.  F.  L.,  Short, 
Cal. :  "  Recipe  for  supreme  of  chicken, 
which  appeared  in  the  Magazine  in 
z897» 

Supreme  of  Chicken. 

Chop  the  meat  from  the  breast  and 
second  joints  of  an  uncooked  chicken 
very  fine  by  passing  it  through  the  meat- 
chopper two  or  three  times.  There 
should  be  about  seven-eighths  of  a  cup. 
Add  four  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating 
each  egg  thoroughly  and  evenly  into 
the  meat  before  the  next  is  added. 
Then  add  gradually  one  cup  and  a 
third  of  double  cream,  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Turn  the  mixture 
into  well-buttered  dariole  moulds  and 
bake,  covered  with  buttered  paper  and 
standing  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  until 
the  contents  of  the  moulds  feel  firm  to 
the  touch  (about  twenty  minutes  in  a 
slow  oven).  The  recipe  was  given  as 
above  from  a  demonstration  lecture, 
but  a  more  delicate  result  will  be  pro- 
duced if  a  full  pint  of  cream  be  used 
to  a  cup  of  the  chicken.  At  the  same 
time,  the  contents  are  sufficiently  firm 
to  retain  their  shape. 


Query  304. —  Mrs.  S.,  Nutley,  N.f. : 
' '  Recipe  for  pop  overs. ' ' 

Popovers. 

Sift  together  one  cup  of  sifted  flour 
and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ; 
gradually  beat  in  a  cup  of  milk  and  an 


egg  beaten  until  light.  Beat  two  min- 
utes with  a  Dover  egg-beater,  and  bake 
about  half  an  hour  in  a  round  iron 
gem-pan,  buttered,  in  a  fast  oven. 


Query  305.  —  Mrs.  F.  S.,  Water- 
vine,  Me.  :  "In  making  finnan-haddie 
a  la  Delmonico  by  recipe  as  lately  given, 
why  does  the  white  sauce  sometimes  sepa- 
rate ?  Why  is  welsh  rarebit,  made  from 
the  same  cheese,  sometimes  smooth  and 
tender  and  sometimes  leathery  ?  " 
Why  White  Sauce  Separates. 

The  separation  is  probably  caused 
by  using  milk  that  is  not  fresh  enough 
to  scald  without  souring.  Often  salt 
will  occasion  a  separation  if  it  be  added 
to  milk  before  scalding.  When  in 
doubt  about  the  freshness  of  milk, 
scald  before  adding  to  the  butter  and 
flour  and  add  the  salt  just  before  serv- 
ing. 

Leathery  Rarebits. 

Cheese  is  an  article  that  needs  be 
cooked  at  a  low  temperature ;  too  much 
or  too  prolonged  heat  renders  it  tough 
and  leathery.  The  smoothness  of  a 
rarebit  depends  much  upon  stirring, 
which  must  be  continuous. 


Query  306.  —  A.  M.  W.,  Worcester, 
Mass. :  "A  recipe  for  black  butter  sauce 
to  be  served  with  fish." 

Beurre  Noir,  or  Browned  Butter. 

Cook  half  a  pound  of  butter,  cut  in 


248 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


small  pieces,  in  a  frying-pan,  until  it 
becomes  of  a  rich,  dark-brown  color, 
without  being  burnt.  Cook  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  a  scant 
half-teaspoonful  of  pepper  until  reduced 
about  one-third,  then  pour  over  the 
cooled  butter.     Reheat  without  boiling. 


Query  307.  —  Mrs.  M.  F.  S.,  Bed- 
ford, Mass.:   "  Where  do  you  purchase 
marshmallows  for  frosti?ig ;   also  give 
recipe  for  marsh  mallow  frosting. ' ' 
Marshmallow  Frosti?ig. 

Boil  three-fourths  a  cup  of  granulated 
sugar  and  one-fourth  a  cup  of  milk, 
without  stirring,  about  six  minutes,  or 
until  the  syrup  threads.  Cook  and  stir 
one-fourth  a  pound  of  marshmallows 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  over 
boiling  water,  until  the  mixture  is 
smooth.  Combine  the  two  mixtures 
and  beat  until  stiff  enough  to  spread, 
after  flavoring  with  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  extract. 

The  marshmallows  may  be  bought 
at  almost  any  store  where  confectionery 
is  sold.  Select  white  rather  than  col- 
ored goods. 


Query  308.— H.  /.,  Sing  Sing,  N.  Y; 
"  Recipes  for  candied  cherries,  dark  choc- 
olate layer  cake,  peanut  brittle." 

Recipe  for  Candied  Cherries. 

A  recipe  was  published  in  our  Aug- 
ust-September number  for  1899. 
Dark  Chocolate  Layer  Cake. 

Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter ;  add 
gradually  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
then  alternately  half  a  cup  of  milk  and 
two  cups  of  sifted  flour  mixed  with 
three  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon ;  then  add  three  squares  of 
melted  chocolate  and  one  teaspoonful 
of   vanilla    extract ;     beat    thoroughly, 


then    add    the    whites    of    three    eggs 
beaten  until  dry. 

Peanut  Brittle. 
Boil  three  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one 
cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  cream-of-tartar,  and  one 
cup  of  water  to  the  hard-ball  stage. 
(To  test,  plunge  a  skewer  in  cold  water, 
then  into  the  boiling  mixture  to  the 
depths  of  about  two  inches,  then  back 
into  the  water ;  let  it  remain  while  ten 
is  counted,  then  push  off  the  candy  with 
the  forefinger  and  thumb ;  if  it  can  be 
worked  while  held  under  water  to  a 
hard,  solid  ball,  it  is  cooked  enough.) 
Now  add  one  pint  of  peanuts,  and  boil 
to  the  hard-crack  stage.  Test  as  be- 
fore, but,  when  the  candy  is  taken  from 
the  skewer,  drop  it  into  cold  water  a 
second,  then  press  the  teeth  on  it,  and 
if  it  leaves  the  teeth  clean  it  is  boiled 
enough ;  add  one-fourth  a  pound  of 
butter  and  let  just  boil  in ;  remove 
from  the  fire,  add  two  level  teaspoon- 
fuls of  bicarbonate  of  soda  dissolved 
in  a  little  water  and  stir  vigorously. 
When  the  mixture  begins  to  rise,  pour 
out  upon  a  marble  or  platter  and 
spread  thin.  When  cold  break  or  cut 
in  pieces. 


Query  309.  —  Mrs.  M.   V.,  Atlanta, 
Ga. :  "  Recipe  for  heart  eclairs." 
Heart  Eclairs. 

We  are  in  doubt  as  to  just  what 
our  subscriber  means  by  a  heart  eclair  ; 
but,  as  she  refers  to  a  half-tone  given 
in  a  previous  number  of  the  Magazine, 
we  suppose  the  following  recipe  is 
desired  :  — 

Chou  Paste. 

Heat  one  cup  of  water  and  half  a 
cup  of  butter ;  when  boiling,  sift  in 
one  cup  of  pastry  flour  and  stir  vigor- 
ously.    When  the  mixture  cleaves  from 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


249 


the  saucepan,  turn  into  a  mixing-bowl 
and  beat  in  four  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
beating  in  each  egg  thoroughly  before 
the  next  is  added.  If  the  eggs  are  of 
fair  size,  three  may  suffice.  The  batter 
should  be  consistent  enough  to  hold 
its  shape  without  spreading.  Press 
the  batter  through  a  pastry  bag  with 
tube  half  an  inch  in  diameter  attached, 
into  oblongs  about  three  inches  in 
length  and  two  inches  wide.  They 
should  be  in  shape  more  like  a  cream 
cake  than  an  eclair.  Brush  the  tops 
with  beaten  egg  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes. 
When  cool  cut  open  on  one  side  and 
fill  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored  before  whipping.  Sift  pow- 
dered sugar  over  the  tops. 
Queen  Eclairs. 
Bake  eclairs  in  the  usual  shape,  only 
smaller.  When  cool  fill  with  peach 
marmalade,  in  which  fine-chopped  al- 
monds have  been  mixed.  Spread  the 
tops  with  orange  icing. 


Query  310.  — Mrs.  E.  M.   W.,  At- 
lanta, Ga. :  "Recipe  for  soft  frosting  for 
cake,  like  the  cream  in  chocolates,  —  one 
that  will  cut  smoothly"  etc.,  etc. 
Soft  Frosting. 

I  know  of  no  recipe  that  will  produce 
a  frosting  exactly  like  the  one  desired. 
Melted  fondant  is  just  what  you  de- 
sire ;  but  it  can  be  conveniently  used 
only  for  small  cakes  that  may  be  dipped 
in  it.  For  general  use  a  confectioners' 
frosting,  or  a  milk  frosting  that  is  not 
cooked  too  long,  may  be  found  quite 
satisfactory. 

Confectioners'  Frosting. 

To  two  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling 
water  or  fruit  juice,  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  juice,  add  sufficient  sifted 
confectioners'  sugar  to  make  of  a  con- 


sistency to  spread.     If  made  of  boiling 

water,  any  frosting  "  left  over"  may  be 

set  aside  for  almost  any  length  of  time. 

Milk  Frosting. 

Stir,  over  the  fire,  one  cup  and  a 
half  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  milk, 
until  the  boiling-point  is  reached;  then 
let  boil  without  stirring  ten  to  twelve 
minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  and  beat 
until  of  a  consistency  to  spread.  Score 
for  cutting  as  soon  as  firm.  This  is 
not  particularly  adapted  for  use  be- 
tween layers,  but  it  will  answer  if  not 
cooked  too  hard. 

Boiled  Frosting. 

Let  one  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup 
of  water  boil,  without  stirring  after 
the  syrup  begins  to  boil,  to  the  soft- 
ball  stage  ;  then  pour,  very  gradually, 
beating  constantly,  upon  the  whites  of 
two  eggs,  beaten  until  foamy  but  not 
dry ;  beat  occasionally  until  cool,  then 
flavor,  and  spread  between  the  layers, 
and  on  top  of  the  cake.  If  boiled  just 
right  the  frosting  will  crust  over  on 
the  outside  when  exposed  to  the  air, 
but  will  be  soft  upon  the  inside.  If 
boiled  too  hard  it  may  be  softened  by 
the  addition  of  lemon  juice,  fruit  juice, 
or  boiling  water. 


Query  31  r. — Mrs.  T.  I.  C,  Lincoln, 
Neb. :  "  What  is  the  best  temperature  as 
indicated  by  an  oven  thermometer,  and 
the  corresponding  time  for  baking  cus- 
tards ?  Some  recipes  for  boiled  custards 
call  for  thorough  beating  of  the  eggs. 
How  is  this  to  be  explained,  when  the 
beating  decreases  the  thicke?iing  capacity 
of  the  egg  ?  Why  should  a  mixture  of 
cornstarch  and  milk,  cooked  directly  over 
aflame,  and  free  from  lumpy  condition, 
become  so  while  the  cooking  is  being  com- 
pleted in  a  covered  double  boiler  ?  Ex- 
plain why  the  use  of  soda,  which  softens 


250 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


the  water,  preserves  the  green  color  of 
vegetables.  Is  there  any  difference  in  the 
nutritive  value  of  white  and  yellow  corn- 
meal?  What  causes  the  bitter  taste  in 
mush  made  of  cornmeal  that  has  bee?i 
kept  less  than  two  weeks  in  a  new,  wire, 
dry,  ve?itilated  refrigerator  ?  This  taste 
is  most  apparent  when  the  meal  is  mixed 
with  a  little  flour  and  cold  ?nilk  prior  to 
stirring  into  boiling  water.  What  liquid 
standard  is  used  in  the  standard  half  pint 
measuri?ig-cups  ?  How  much  salt,  pep- 
per, and  flour  are  needed  for  dredging  a 
five-pound  roast  V 
Temperature  and  Time  for  Baking 
Custards. 

The  best  temperature  for  baking 
custards  is  that  designated  "baking 
heat  "  on  some  oven  thermometers  and 
"  slow  "  on  others.  The  time  of  baking 
depends  upon  the  size  of  the  custard. 
Twenty  minutes  will  suffice  for  small 
timbale  moulds,  standing  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water ;  sixty  to  ninety  minutes  will 
be  required,  if  the  custard  be  baked  in 
the  same  manner  in  a  mould  holding 
from  three  pints  to  two  quarts. 

How  Beat  Eggs  for  Custards. 

When  eggs  are  to  be  used  to  give 
lightness  to  a  mixture,  they  are  beaten 
thoroughly;  when  they  are  used  princi- 
pally for  thickening,  they  are  beaten 
only  until  the  whites  and  yolks  are  well 
mixed. 
Why  Should  Cornstarch,  if  Properly 
Cooked,  Seem  Lumpy. 

We  have  noticed  the  appearance 
above  described  in  making  Rebecca 
pudding,  but  have  never  been  able  to 
account  for  it.  When  cold  the  pudding 
seems  perfectly  smooth.  Even  when 
hot  the  lumps  are  not  lumps  in  the 
usual  acceptance  of  the  term. 

Use  of  Soda  in  Cooking  Vegetables. 

Salt,  not   soda,    is    used  in   cooking 


vegetables,  to  preserve  the  green  color. 
Soda  tends  to  destroy  color. 

Nutritive    Value  of  White  and   Yellow 
Cornmeal. 
The  composition  of  maize  is  given 
in  the  American  Cyclopedia  as : 

Albuminoids,  10;  carbohydrates,  .68;  fat,  .07; 
ash,  .02. 

The  amount  of  fatty  matter,  or  oil,  is 
notable,  varying  with  the  kind  of  corn 
from  six  to  eleven  per  cent.;  the  hard, 
flinty  varieties  of  northern  localities 
have  the  larger  percentage,  and  the 
starchy  kinds  the  least. 

Keeping  Qualities  of  Cornmeal. 

Corn  contains  a  large  percentage  of 
oil,  and,  on  this  account,  to  insure 
keeping,  it  must  be  perfectly  dried  both 
in  the  ear  and  after  grinding  into  meal, 
otherwise  it  acquires  a  bitter,  rancid 
taste.  To  obviate  this  trouble,  in  part, 
often  the  germ  is  removed  before  grind- 
ing ;  but  of  course  the  corn  loses  in 
food  value  by  the  process.  The  bitter 
taste,  more  apparent  when  the  mush 
is  cooked  as  described,  is  probably 
occasioned  by  the  spoiling  process 
being  more  fully  carried  out  by  the 
comparatively  long  application  of  a  low 
degree  of  heat  in  connection  with 
moisture  before  the  cooking  is  done. 
When  the  dry  meal  is  slowly  stirred 
into  the  boiling  water,  and  the  mush 
is  not  allowed  to  stop  boiling,  the  meal 
may  be  cooked  before  it  has  time  to 
become  rancid. 

Standard  for   Ha  If -Pi  tit    Measuring- 
Cups. 

The  half-pint  measuring- cups  hold 
half  a  pound  of  liquid  like  milk  or 
water,  or  solid,  like  butter  or  granu- 
lated sugar. 

Sixteen  ounces,  or  a  pint,  is  called 
a  fluid  pound. 


THE   BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


251 


Quantity  of  Salt,  Pepper,  and  Flour  for 
Roast. 
Tastes  differ  materially  as  to  the 
seasoning  of  food.  A  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  with  half  that  quantity  of  pepper, 
well  rubbed  into  the  surface  of  a  five- 
pound  roast,  would  be  quite  sufficient 
for  some ;  while,  for  others,  twice  that 
quantity  would  be  none  too  much. 
One-fourth  a  cup  of  flour,  in  all,  sifted 
on  after  each  basting,  ought  to  suffice. 


Query  312. —  Mrs.  A.  Z.,  Oshkosh, 
Wis. :  a  Recipes  for  macaroons  and  cook- 
ies that  are  dropped  from  a  spoon." 
Peanut  Cookies. 

Cream  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter ; 
add  gradually  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  then 
three-fourths  a  cup  of  peanuts  pounded 
fine  in  a  mortar,  one  egg  beaten  until 
light,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and  one 
cup  of  flour,  into  which  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking-powder  have  been  sifted. 
Drop  the  mixture  on  to  buttered  tins, 
a  teaspoonful  in  a  place.  Garnish  the 
top  of  each  bit  of  dough  with  a  piece 
of  nut. 

Angel  Cake  lets. 

Sift  together  half  a  cup  of  flour,  half 
a  cup  of  fine  granulated  sugar,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  cream-of  tartar ; 
fold  into  the  whites  of  five  eggs  beaten 
until  dry  ;  flavor  with  half  a  teaspoon- 
fut  of  vanilla  extract ;  drop  from  a 
spoon  on  to  buttered  paper,  and  bake 
from  ten  to  twelve  minutes  in  a  slow 
oven. 


Query  313.  —  A.  C.  P.,  Waynesville, 
N.  C. :  "  Recipe  for  genuine  '  Berwick'' 
sponge  cake." 

Berwick  Sponge  Cake. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  two 
minutes  by  the  clock ;  add   a  cup  and 


a  half  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
extract,  and  half  a  cup  of  cold  water, 
and  beat  two  minutes ;  add  two  cups 
of  pastry  flour  mixed  with  two  level 
teaspoonfuls  of  cream-of-tartar,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  beat  two  min- 
utes ;  lastly,  add  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  beaten  until  dry,  and  beat  to- 
gether two  minutes.     Bake  in  a  loaf. 


Query  314.  —  Mrs.  H.  M.  B.,  Cas- 
tine,  Me. :  "  Recipe  for  cheese  balls  made 
from  cream  cheese." 

Cream-Cheese  Balls. 

Mix  a  cup  of  Neufchatel  or  other 
cream  cheese  with  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful,  each, 
of  salt  and  paprica  ;  then  fold  in  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  until  stiff. 
Shape  in  small  balls,  roll  in  cracker 
meal  (crackers  rolled  very  fine),  fry  in 
deep  fat,  and  drain  on  soft  paper. 


Query  3 15. —  A.  E.  V.,  Ottawa,  III.  : 
"  Recipes  for  creamed  chicken  a?id  oysters 
served  in  timbale  cases." 

Creamed  Oysters. 

Bring  one  quart  of  oysters  to  the 
boiling-point  in  their  own  liquor ;  strain 
off  the  liquor.  Remove  the  hard  mus- 
cle and  retain  the  tender  portion  of 
the  oyster.  Cook  one-fourth  a  cup  of 
flour  in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter ; 
add  gradually  one  pint  of  the  strained 
oyster  liquor,  or  one  cup  of  oyster 
liquor  and  one  cup  of  cream ;  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  When  boiling,  add  at 
least  one  pint  of  the  cooked  oysters, 
and  serve  as  soon  as  reheated. 
Crea7iied  Chicke?i. 

Use  chicken  liquor,  or  chicken  liquor 
and  cream,  for  the  sauce ;  add  to  one 
pint  of  sauce  a  full  pint  of  cooked 
chicken  cut  in   cubes,  and  serve  when 


252 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


reheated.  One  or  two  yolks  of  eggs 
may  be  added  to  the  sauce  before 
adding  the  chicken  or  oysters  ;  but  it 
should  be  done  gradually,  and  the 
sauce  should  not  be  allowed  to  boil 
afterwards. 


Query  316.  —  Mrs.  H.  A.  M.,  Still- 

water,  Mich.:  "A  ?-ecipe  for  chocolate 
sauce  to  pour  over  ice-cream.'" 
Chocolate  Sauce. 
Mix  two  ounces  of  grated  chocolate 
and  two  cups  of  granulated  sugar  ;  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  half  a 
cup  of  water,  and  a  piece  of  cinnamon 
bark  an  inch  long  ;  cook  to  the  soft- 
ball  stage  ;  remove  the  cinnamon  and 
pour  hot  over  the  ice-cream.  The 
sauce  will  candy  upon  the  cold  cream. 


Query   317.  —  Mrs.  M.  F.  S.,  Bed- 
ford, Mass. :  "  Recipes  for  cookies  and 
for  lemon  pie  with  meringue" 
Cookies. 

A  recipe  was  given  in  answer  to 
Query  247.  August-September  number, 
1899. 

Lemon  Pie  with  Meringue. 

Beat  two  eggs  with  the  yolks  of  two 
more ;  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  and  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Bake  in  a  crust-lined  plate ;  when 
slightly  cooled,  cover  with  a 

MERINGUE. 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  until 
stiff  ;  add  four  teaspoonfuls  of  pow- 
dered sugar  gradually,  beating  vigor- 
ously meanwhile ;  then  fold  in  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  extract.  Bake  about 
eight  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 
A  Cheap  Lemon  Pie. 

Let  a   slice   of  bread  ^the  crust  re- 


moved and  the  bread  crumbled  fine) 
soak  in  a  cup  of  wrater ;  beat  until 
smooth,  then  add  a  cup  of  sugar,  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  melted  butter.  When  baked, 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  as  the 
preceding,  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
and  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Query  3  iS. —  Mrs.  E.  E.  P.,  Tibbals, 
El  a.  :  "  Recipe  for  a  smooth,  creamy,  cold 
cheese  mixture  to  be  used  on  crackers  and 
in  sandwiches." 

Cheese  Mixture  for  Sandwiches. 

Cream  one  tablespoonful  of  butter 
with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard  and 
one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  paprica ; 
then  beat  in,  very  gradually,  two  ounces 
(one-fourth  a  cup)  of  grated  American 
cheese  and  a  tablespoonful  of  Parme- 
san. Add,  as  desired,  half  a  table- 
spoonful of  lemon  juice  or  one  table- 
spoonful of  anchovy  sauce. 


Query  319.  — Miss  M.  P.,  Palmetto, 
Ga.  :  ''Kindly  give  detailed  directions 
for  serving  oysters  in  the  ha  If  shell. 
At  dinner,  -when  coffee  is  served  as  the 

last  course,  should  it  be  served  just  after 
the  dessert  or  after  the  dessert  plates  have 
been  removed  /  Are  fish  eggs  as  digest- 
ible and  nourishing  as  those  of  fowls  1 
I  not  l  melt  lard  or  butter  into  the 
four'  used  for  crust  t  Would  using 
melted  butter  in  egg,  bread  and  muffin 
batters  have  the  same  result  t  In  peeling 
hard-boiled  eggs,  why  does  the  white  stick 
to  and  come  off  7c<ith  the  shells  of  fresh 
eggs,  while  in  older  eggs  the  shells  come 
off  clean,  leaving  the  meat  intact 

ing  Oysters  on  Half-Shell. 
Scrub  the  oyster  shells  and  set  them 
where  they  will  become  ice-cold.     Just 
before  serving,  loosen  the  oysters  from 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


253 


the  shells,  leaving  them  upon  the  half- 
shell;  place  on  oyster  plates,  or  ordi- 
nary plates,  filled  with  shaved  ice. 
Put  a  quarter  of  a  lemon  in  the  centre 
of  each  plate,  and  serve  at  once  with 
small  brownbread  sandwiches.  Pass, 
at  the  same  time,  salt,  pepper,  paprica, 
and  horseradish  if  at  hand. 

Coffee  as  Last  Course  at  Dinfier. 
Coffee,  when  served  as  the  finale  of 
a  dinner,  is  served  after  the  dessert 
plates  have  been  removed.  It  is  quite 
generally  served  in  the  library  or  draw- 
ing-room just  after  the  end  of  the  din- 
ner. 

Digestibility  and  Nutritive  Value  of 

Fish  Eggs. 
Fish  eggs,  also  called  roe,  are  con- 
sidered a  delicacy  rather  than  a  sub- 
stantial food.  The  nutritive  value,  in 
comparison  to  the  nutritive  value  of 
hens'  eggs,  is,  probably,  in  about  the 
same  ratio  as  that  of  fish  to  fowl. 
Digestibility  depends,  as  does  that  of 
hens'  eggs,  upon  the  manner  of  cook- 
ing. The  following  analyses  are  from 
Church  :  — 

In   ioo  parts 
Fowl.  Flounder. 

Water   ....      77.8  80.4 

Xitrog.  matter    .       17.3  140 

Extractives     .     .         2.3  - 

Fat 1,0  2.0 

Mineral  matter    .         1.6  3.6 

Melted  Butter  or  Lard  i?i  Pastry. 

Pastry,  to  be  at  all  wholesome,  must 
be  light.  Although  we  sometimes  use 
baking-power  to  help  assure  this  con- 
dition, we  depend  largely  upon  the  ex- 
pansion of  the  cold  air  in  the  crust 
when  exposed  to  the  sudden  heat  of 
the  oven.  When  melted  fat  is  used, 
the  starch  grains  absorb  the  fat,  and  a 
sodden,  solid  mass,  from  which  the  air 
has  been  excluded,  results.  The  small 
quantity    of    melted    butter    added    to 


muffin  mixtures,  already  made  partially 
light  by  the  air  incorporated  into  eggs, 
and  the  gas  generated  by  baking-pow- 
der in  contact  with  moisture,  would 
not  materially  affect  the  mixture. 

Why  Cooked  Eggs  Stick  to  the  Shells. 

Probably  the  shell  of  an  old  egg 
comes  off  clean  because  the  water  in 
the  egg  has  evaporated  through  the 
porous  shell,  leaving  air  between  the 
lining  and  the  shell  of  the  egg. 


Query  320.  —  Miss  C.   71,  Denver, 
Col.  :  "Recipes  for  marshmallow filling ; 

cut  umber  cut  lengthwise  and  stuffed  to 
serve  with  fish;  also  a  cooked  stuffed 
cucumber." 

Marshmallow  Filling. 

The  marshmallow  filling  described 
has  been  asked  for  repeatedly.  It  is 
made  at  the  large  bakeries,  and  often 
covered  with  cocoanut.  We  have  not 
as  yet  succeeded  in  making  a  frosting 
exactly  like  it.  The  one  given  in  an- 
swer to  Query  307  is  somewhat  similar. 
Stuffed  Cucumber  Salad. 

Pare  a  cucumber  and  cut  in  halves 
lengthwise ;  remove  the  seeds  and  let 
chill  in  ice  water  about  an  hour.  Chop 
together  the  solid  part  of  a  peeled  and 
seeded  tomato,  half  a  slice  of  new 
onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  and  a  stalk 
of  tender  celery  ;  mix  with  mayonnaise 
or  a  French  dressing,  and  use  as  a  fill- 
ing for  the  well-dried  cucumber.  Serve 
on  a  bed  of  cress  or  lettuce. 

Stuffed  Cucumber,   Cooked. 

Remove  the  seeds  from  a  pared 
cucumber  by  the  use  of  an  apple-corer. 
Cook  one-eighth  a  cup  of  bread  crumbs 
in  one- eighth  a  cup  of  milk  ;  add  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  chicken,  cooked  and 
chopped,  season  to  taste  with  onion 
juice,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  fill  the  cavity 
in  the  cucumber  with  the  mixture.    Let 


254 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


simmer  on  the  top  of  the  range  until 
tender,  in  a  pint  of  stock  with  slice  of 
onion,  stalk  of  celery,  three  or  four 
slices  of  carrot,  and  a  bit  of  parsley. 
Serve  on  a  slice  of  toast  with  the 
strained  stock,  thickened  with  flour, 
stirred  smooth  in  water. 


Query  321. —  Mrs.  A.  B.  C,  Bos- 
ton, Mass. :  "  How  broil  halibut  so  that 
it  shall  be  brown,  and  not  exude  water 
when  served  on  the  platter  ?  How  make 
hermits  that  shall  be  soft  ?  " 

To  Broil  Halibut  Brown,  etc. 

Brush  over  the  fish  with  melted  but- 
ter or  olive  oil,  and  dip  in  fine  cracker 
or  bread  crumbs,  then  broil  as  usual. 
Soft  Her??iits. 

Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter ;  add 
gradually  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
then  half  a  cup  of  seeded  and  chopped 
raisins,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
sifted  with  half  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of 
cinnamon,  mace,  and  nutmeg,  and  one- 
fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves ;  then 
add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  half  a  cup 
of  milk,  and  flour  sifted  with  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  to  make  a 
soft  dough.  Pat  out  a  small  piece  of 
dough  to  a  little  less  than  half  an  inch 
in  thickness,  cut  in  rounds,  and  bake 
in  a  fast  oven. 


Query  322. —  Mrs.  E.  M.  S.,  New 
Bedford,  Mass. :  "  Recipe  for  chocolate 
cake  that  is  chocolate  all  through" 
Chocolate  Sponge  Cake. 

Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter,  add  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  cocoa,  one  cup  of  sugar 
mixed  with  one  teaspoonful  of  cinna- 
mon, the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  half  a 
cup  of  cold  water,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  extract.  Beat  the  whites  of 
three  eggs,  and  add  to  the  cake,  alter- 
nately,   with   one    cup    and    two    level 


tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  sifted  with 
three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 
Bake  in  small  pans  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes.  In  the  recipe  given  in  an- 
swer to  Query  308,  the  cake  may  be 
baked  in  a  loaf. 


Query  323. —  Mrs.  IV  E.  L.,  Ham- 
mond, La.  :  "Recipe  for  candied  violets 
and  rose  leaves." 

Ca?idied   Violets. 

Remove  the  stalks  from  a  pound  of 
violets,  and  refresh  them  in  cold  water  ; 
then  spread  them  on  a  towel  to  dry. 
Cook  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar 
to  the  soft -ball  stage,  remove  from 
the  fire,  and  add  the  violets;  press 
them  down  under  the  syrup,  return  to 
the  fire,  and  let  boil  up  once;  then 
transfer  at  once  to  a  cold  dish.  The 
next  day  drain  on  a  sieve.  To  the 
syrup  add  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and 
cook  again  to  soft-ball  stage ;  put 
in  the  flowers,  and  set  aside  for 
twelve  hours ;  drain  again,  heat  to  the 
boiling-point,  and  add  the  violets. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  the 
violets  lightly  until  the  syrup  begins 
to  grain,  then  pour  on  to  sheets  of 
paper ;  shake  and  separate  the  flowers 
carefully  with  the  hands,  and,  when 
dry,  pick  them  from  the  granulated 
sugar.  —  Ranhofer. 


Query  324. —  Mrs.  A.  A., Hay-ward, 
Wis. :  "Recipes  for  cooking  mushrooms, 
particularly  puffballs.     Also  recipe  for 
canning  mushrooms." 

How  to   Can  Mushrooms. 

We  have  not  tried  to  preserve  mush- 
rooms by  canning,  and  hope  that,  if 
any  of  our  readers  have  been  success- 
ful in  this  line,  they  will  send  us  notes 
in  reference  to  the  matter,  for  publica- 
tion in  this  department. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


255 


Broiled  Puffballs  on   Toast. 

Peel  the  puffballs  and  cut  in  slices 
half  an  inch  thick ;  brush  over  with 
melted  butter  or  olive  oil,  and  broil 
in  a  double  gridiron  over  a  rather  slow 
fire,  first  on  one  side,  and  then  on  the 
other.  They  will  cook  in  from  five 
to  eight  minutes.  Place  upon  thin 
slices  of  toast,  and  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  and 
melted  butter. 

Mushroom  Pie. 

Peel  the  mushrooms  and  cut  in 
small  pieces  ;  butter  a  pie-dish,  put  in 
a  layer  of  sliced  potatoes  (cooked), 
then  a  layer  of  mushrooms,  add  an- 
other layer  of  potatoes,  also  of  mush- 
rooms, seasoning  each  layer  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  bits  of  butter.  When  the 
materials  are  used,  pour  in  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  cream,  cover  the  pie  with  pastry 
cut  to  fit  the  dish,  and  with  an  opening 
in  the  top,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
until  the  crust  is  thoroughly  baked. 
In  the  mean  time  cook  the  trimmings 
from  the  mushrooms  in  a  small  quan- 
tity of  stock  or  water,  and,  when  the 
pie  is  nearly  cooked,  season  the  liquid 
with  salt  and  pepper ;  add  a  little  but- 
ter or  cream,  and  strain  into  the  pie 
through  the  opening  in  the  top. 
Mushrooms  Stewed  in  Cream,  No.  1. 

Simmer  a  pint  of  mushrooms,  peeled 
and  broken  into  pieces,  about  four 
minutes,  in  a  generous  pint  of  thin 
cream,  scalded.  Season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper. 
Mushrooms  Stewed  in  Crea?n,  No.  2. 

Wash  and  peel  a  pound  of  mush- 
rooms, and,  if  large,  cut  in  halves. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
saute  for  five  minutes  in  one-third  a 
cup  of  hot  butter.  Add  half  a  cup  of 
white  sauce  and  half  a  cup  of  sweet 
cream  ;  let   simmer  five  minutes,   and 


serve    garnished    with    buttered    toast 
points. 

Cooked  in  Deep  Fat. 
We  see  no  reason  why  slices  of  puff- 
ball  could  not  be  seasoned,  egg-and- 
bread-crumbed,  and  fried  in  deep  fat, 
and  think  the  flavor  would  be  well 
retained  by  this  process  of  cooking. 


Query  325. —  Mrs.  W.  A.  D.,  At- 
lanta, Ga.:  "How  do  you  make  lettuce 
hearts  and  nests  for  decorating  I  How 
do  you  unmould  jelly  ?  What  is  7neant 
by  a  vol-au-vent  of  chicken  croquettes  I 
How  are  rings  cut  from  7?iacaroni? 
What  is  alphabet  paste,  consomme  juli- 
enne, and  consojnme  aux  pates  /  " 
Lettuce  Nests. 

Lettuce  nests  are  usually  made  of 
two  or  three  leaves  of  what  is  called 
Boston  Market  lettuce ;  these  are  ar- 
ranged so  as  to  form  a  cup,  or  nest,  in 
which  a  spoonful  of  salad  mixture  may 
be  served.  In  some  sections  of  the 
country  this  handsome  variety  of  let- 
tuce is  not  found;  instead,  the  long, 
straight-leaved  lettuce  —  similar  to  Ro- 
maine  —  is  the  only  variety  seen.  With 
this  the  nests  may  be  made  by  shred- 
ding the  lettuce. 

To  Shred  Straight  Lettuce. 

Wash  the  lettuce  leaves,  carefully, 
without  removing  them  from  the  stalk ; 
shake  in  the  open  air ;  fold  in  the 
middle,  crosswise,  and  cut  through  in 
the  fold.  Hold  the  two  pieces,  one 
above  the  other,  close  to  the  meat- 
board  with  the  left  hand,  and  with  a 
sharp  knife  cut  in  narrow  ribbons, 
about  one-fourth  an  inch  wide.  Ar- 
range on  individual  plates  in  small 
nests. 

Lettuce  Hearts. 

These  are  the  small  inner  leaves  of 
the  lettuce  head,  well  blanched. 


256 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


How   Un mould  felly. 

When  ready  to  serve,  plunge  the 
mould,  to  the  height  of  the  jelly,  into 
hot  water  an  instant,  put  the  serving- 
dish,  inverted,  over  the  top  of  the 
mould,  then  invert  both,  and  let  stand 
on  the  table  an  instant,  when  the 
mould  can  be  removed  from  the  jelly. 
Vol-au-vent  of  Chicke?i   Croquettes. 

A  hot,  covered  puff-paste  case,  large 
enough  to   serve  several  people,  filled 
with    chicken    croquettes    and    a    thin 
sauce. 
How  Ri?igs  are  Cut  from  Macaroni. 

Cut  quarter-inch  rings  from  cooked 
macaroni. 

Alphabet  Paste. 

Alphabet  paste  ("Alphabets  Soupes") 
is  a  form  of  macaroni  made  in  shapes 
like  the  letters  of  the  alphabet.  It 
comes  in  pound  packages,  at  twenty 
five  cents  a  pound.  Consomme',  in 
which  this  or  other  forms  of  macaroni 
are  served,  is  called  "consomme  aux 
pate's." 

Consomme  Julienne. 

Consomme  in  which  shreds  of  vari- 
ous vegetables  are  served  as  a  gar- 
nish. 


Query  326.  —  Mrs.  T.  A.  M.,  Seal 
Harbor,  Me. :  "  How  preserve  cranber- 
ries for  summer  use  1  " 

To  Preserve   Cranberries. 

Can  as  any  fruit,  adding  the  juice 
of  a  lemon  to  each  quart  of  berries. 

Query  327. —  M.  M.  M.,  Hyde 
Park,  Mass.  :  "  Recipe  for  a  cake  made 
in  German  families,  called  by  a  name 
sounding  like  l  springer lie.1  Why  are 
French-fried  potatoes  better  when  fried 
without  soaking  in  ice  water  /  If  water 
makes  more  tender  cake  than  milk,  why 
is  it  not  always  used  in  tead  cf  milk!  " 


"  Springer/ie." 

Will   some  of  our   German   readers 
send  us  the  recipe  for  a  cake,  the  name 
of  which  sounds  like  the  above  ? 
Soaking  Potatoes  before  Prying. 

We  are  inclined  to  think  that  the 
question  of  soaking  or  not  soaking  the 
cut  potatoes  in  ice  water  before  frying 
is  a  matter  of  individual  taste.  When 
sliced,  and  left  to  stand  in  water,  a 
large  quantity  of  starch  is  lost,  and  the 
potato  is  probably  more  crisp.  In  the 
other  case,  the  pieces  would  be  softer 
and  more  mealy. 

Water  or  Milk  in  Mixing  Cake. 

A  cake  in  which  water  is  used  is 
more  tender,  other  conditions  being 
the  same,  than  a  cake  in  which  milk  is 
used  as  the  liquid ;  but  the  texture  is 
entirely  different.  Much  the  same 
difference  exists  in  bread  mixed  with 
water  and  bread  mixed  with  milk.  In 
both  cases  it  is  a  matter  of  choice. 


Query  328.  —  Mrs.  J.  D.  C,  Phila- 
delphia :  "  Recipes  for  broiled  oysters 
with  bacon,  and  tea  punch." 

Oysters  Broiled  with  Bacon. 

Broil  six  slices  of  bacon  by  letting 
stand  in  a  double  broiler  over  a  drip- 
ping-pan in  a  hot  oven.  Wash  and 
dry  a  pint  of  large  oysters  ;  dip  one 
by  one  in  the  bacon  fat,  and  arrange 
in  an  oyster-broiler;  cook  over  glowing 
coals,  first  on  one  side,  and  then  on  the 
other,  until  they  look  plump  and  the 
edges  are  curled.  Serve  garnished 
with  the  bacon. 

Tea   Punch. 

Have  ready  frozen  one  quart  of 
lemon  ice-cream.  Make  an  Italian 
meringue  by  pouring  gradually  over 
the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  until 
foamy,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a 
cup  of  water,  boiled  to  the  thread  stage  ; 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


257 


beat  until  cold,  then  dilute  with  one 
quart  of  cold  tea,  and  mix  with  the 
cream.  When  ready  to  serve,  add 
brandy  or  kirsch  to  taste. 


Query  329. —  M.  E.  H.,  Minneap- 
olis, Minn.:  "  How  should  a  vol-au- 
vent  be  served  at  a  formal  dinner,  and 
at  a  family  dinner?  What  is  the 
1  beard'  of  an  oyster,  and  why  remove  ?  " 
How  Serve  a  Vol-au-vent. 

A  vol-au-vent  should  be  cut,  at  the 
table,  through  the  upper  crust  and  the 
case.  A  portion  of  each  crust  and  of 
the  filling  should  be  placed  upon  each 
plate ;  or,  after  being  cut,  it  may  be 
passed  to  each  individual  by  the  wait- 
ress. 

Beard  of  Oysters,  etc. 

The  fluted  ruffle  upon  one  side  of 
an  oyster  is  its  gills,  or  breathing  or- 
gans. These  organs  are  more  appar- 
ent when  the  oyster  is  cooked.  As 
this  ruffle  is  tough,  it  is  not  easily  di- 
gested, and  is  sometimes  removed  with 
a  pair  of  scissors  before  cooking,  when 
the  oyster  is  said  to  be  "  bearded." 


Query  330. — Mrs.f.R.,  New  York 
City  :  "  Recipes  for  use  of  sour  cream." 
Sour- Cream  Salad  Dressing. 

Add  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  dash,  each,  of  white  pepper  and 
paprica  to  three-fourths  a  cup  of  sour 
cream ;  beat  until  thick  and  light  with 
a  Dover  egg-beater.  If  desired,  add 
about  three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
horseradish,  drained  from  vinegar,  or, 
better  still,  freshly  grated. 
Newport  Whips. 

Mix  one  pint  of  sweet  or  sour  cream 
with  half  a  cup  of  fruit  juice,  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  and  half  a  cup  of 
powdered  sugar;  beat  to  a  froth,  drain, 
and  chill  thoroughly ;   serve  in  glasses. 


Sour-Cream  Wafers. 
Stir  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
water  into  one-third  a  cup  of  corn- 
starch ;  then  add  one  cup  of  thick, 
sour  cream,  the  beaten  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful,  each, 
of  salt  and  mace,  and  lightly  fold  in 
the  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  until 
dry.  Bake  as  four  large  griddle-cakes 
(wafers),  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and 
sugar,  roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll,  and  serve 
very  hot. 


Query  331. —  Mrs.f.  T.,  New  York 
City:  "A  recipe  for  soft  gingerbread 
that  usually  proved  successful,  but,  when 
made  with  sour  cream,  it  comes  from  the 
oven  a  perfect  mush.  What  is  the  cause 
—  too  much  or  too  little  soda  '1  Are  aspic 
and  meat  glaze  one  and  the  same  thing  ? 
Could  aspic  be  used  to  glaze  a  tongue  ? 
Should parf ait  be  turned  from  a  mould, 
or  should  it  be  made  creamy,  and  served 
from  glasses  ?  " 

Soft  Gingerbread  with  Sour  Cream. 

The  cream   makes  too  rich   a  mix- 
ture ;  use  part  water  or  omit  all  other 
shortening.     Could  answer  more   defi- 
nitely, if  we  knew  the  exact  recipe. 
Aspic  and  Meat  Glaze. 

Aspic  is  a  cleared  consomme  or 
broth  made  solid  with  gelatine.  Meat 
glaze  is  stock  or  broth  reduced  by  long, 
slow  cooking,  to  such  a  consistency 
that  it  forms  a  tough  and  solid  cake 
when  cooled.  Meat  glaze  may  be  ap- 
plied hot  to  a  hot  tongue,  or  other 
article  to  be  served  glazed. 

Plat ts  Chlorides. 

The  Household Disinfectant 
instantly    destroys    foul    odors    and 
disease-breeding    matter,    preventing 
much  sickness. 

An  odorless,  colorless  liquid  ;  powerful,  safe 
and  economical.  Sold  in  quart  bottles  only, 
by  Druggists  and  high-class  Grocers.  Prepared 
only  by  Henry  B.  Piatt,  Piatt  St.,  New  York. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


News  and  Notes 


Address  communications  for  this  department  to  Janet  M.  Hill,  Editor 
of  the  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine,  372  Boylston  Street, 
Boston,    Mass. 


The  programme  of  the  spring  course 
of  twelve  demonstration  lectures  in 
cookery  (Wednesdays,  at  10  a.m.,  Miss 
Farmer,  demonstrator;  Fridays,  at 
7.45  p.m.,  Miss  Wills,  demonstrator) 
is  as  follows  :  — 


February 
February 
February 
February 
March  7.- 
March  14. 
March  21. 
March  28.- 
April  4. — 
April  ii.— 
April  18.- 
April  25.- 


7. —  Club  Dinner. 

14. —  Pastry. 

21. —  Bread,  Rolls,  and  Salads. 

28. —  Lenten  Luncheon. 

—  Chafing-dish. 

—  Cake. 

—  Golf  Supper. 

—  Fancy  Cakes  and  Candies. 
Picnic  Lunch. 

-Easter  Dinner. 
-Hot-Weather  Dishes. 

—  May  Breakfast. 


Fannie  M.  Farmer  is  giving  a  course 
of  lessons  before  the  Women's  Charity 
Club  of  this  city. 


Charlotte  James  Wills  is  engaged  in 
a  course  of  lectures  at  the  Charity  Club 
Hospital  at  Parker  Hill ;  also  a  course 
at  Winchester,  under  the  auspices  of 
"  The  Guild." 


Maria  W.  Howard  teaches  the 
classes  in  cookery  at  the  Walnut  Hill 
School,  Natick,  Mass.  This  is  a  pre- 
paratory school  for  Wellesley  College. 


In  January,  Janet  M.  Hill,  editor  of 
The  Boston  Cooking-School  Maga- 
zine, gave  two  lectures  before  the 
Women's     Auxiliary    of    the    Vermont 


Dairymen's  Association,  at  Brattleboro. 
The  winter  meeting  of  this  associa- 
tion was  very  large  and  enthusiastic. 
Mrs.  Hill  is  at  present  engaged  in  giv- 
ing a  course  of  demonstrations  in  the 
rooms  of  the  Middlesex  Club  at  Low- 
ell, Mass.  She  is  preparing  to  fill 
early  engagements  for  course  of  lec- 
tures in  Brantford,  Ont;  also  in  Cam- 
bridge, O.,  and  Wheeling,  W.  Va. 


Zilpha  M.  Crane,  Class  of  '98,  has 
charge  of  the  diet  kitchen  at  St.  Luke's 
Hospital,  New  Bedford,  Mass. 


Marietta  McPherson,  '98,  is  giving 
lessons  at  the  Gray  Nuns,  also  at  the 
industrial  school  on  Chambers  Street, 
and  at  the  Ministry-at-Large,  Lowell, 
Mass. 


Sarah  E.  Craig,  graduate  of  the 
Boston  'Cooking-School,  is  at  the  Or- 
tieze,  in  Cincinnati,  O.,  conducting 
classes  in  cookery.  In  the  spring  she 
is  engaged  in  the  interests  of  a  gas- 
stove  company. 


CLASS    OF    '99,    AT     THE     BOSTON     COOK- 
[NG-SCHOOL. 

Harriet  Heald  is  in  charge  of  the 
diet  kitchen  at  Grace  Hospital,  Detroit, 
Mich. 

Harriet  Sheldon  is  lecturing  on  in- 
valid cooking  in  the  western  part  of 
Massachusetts. 

Eliza  Buckingham  is  with  the  Young 


BAKING 
POWDER 


BOSTON,    MASS. 
AFTER  MANY  YEARS'  EXPERIENCE, 
AM  CONVINCED  THAT  A  PURE  CREAM  OF 
TARTAR    BAKING  POWDER  IS  THE  BEST, 
QUICK     LEAVENING.    AGENT,     AND 
WHOLESOME    FOOD    ADJUNCT. 

GUARANTEE  THAT  THIS   POWDER, 
'PREPARED   AFTER    MY    FORMULA,    CON- 
TAINS   ONLY    THE     HIGHEST    POSSIBLE 
GRADE  OF   CREAM  OF  TARTAR  AND 
CARBONATE  OF  SODA,  WITH  THE  SMALL- 
EST    PERCENTAGE     OF    CORN     STARCH 
'NECESSARY  FOR  ITS  PERFECT  KEEPING. 

AS  LONG  AS  MY  SIGNATURE.APPEARS 
ON  THESE  LABELS,  HOUSEKEEPERS.  MAYy 
BE  SURE  THAT  THIS  FORMULA  WILL  BE 
FOLLOWED    IN    THE    MANUFACTURE    OF 
THIS    BAKING  POWDER. 


Company 

BOSTON,  MASS.U.S.A. 


AUTHOR  Ctf  Hfc/".BOSTON  COOK  BOOK' 
AND  MEMBfR  OF  MRS  LINCOLN'S  BAKING 
POWDER  COMPAri 


None  genuine  wifhout  Mrs. Mary  J.Lincoln's  signature 


MRS.  LINCOLN'S  BAKING  POWDER  COOK  BOOK  OF  SEASONABLE  DISHES 
for  every  month  free   with  each  can  purchased. 

OFFICE,     -       -       -    21  COMMERCE  STREET,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


te*££*£££**££*££**££££^***£**££*£*£***£*sr 


h 


i 
§ 

to 

Proprietors  Finest  Stove  Foundry  in  tlxe  world,  a* 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


UP  THE  CHIMNEY 

IS  WHERE  MOST  OF  THE  HEAT  GOES  IN  MOST  RANGES. 
THIS  WASTE  OF  FUEL  AND  COOKING  POWER  IS  PRE- 
VENTED   IN    THE    . 

HOME  CRAWFORD 

RANGE.  Inventive  genius  has  supplied  a  remedy  —  a  patented 
"  SINGLE  DAMPER,"  one  movement  of  which  simultane- 
ously regulates  tire  and  oven.  Simply  slide  the  knob  to  "Kindle," 
'*  Bake,"  or  "  Check,"  as  your  needs  may  require. 

The  Two=Damper  Ranges  are  Deficient. 

Ask  your  dealer  about  it  —  and  about  the  oven  (most  capacious  of  any,  five  heights  for  rack),  the  large  self- 
cleaning  fire  box,  the  superior  grates  (choice  of  triple,  dock-ash  or  plain),  the  extra  large  ash-pan,  the  REL,IA BL,J$ 
oven  thermometer. 

EASIEST    MANAGED     RANGE     AND     BEST    EVER    MADE. 

Send  for  Illustrated  Circular. 


WALKER  &  PRATT  MFC.  CO., 


31  -  35    UNION    ST.,   BOSTON. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


Women's  Christian  Association,  of 
Worcester,  Mass. 

Katharine  French  has  charge  of  the 
diet  ditchen  in  Butterworth  Hospital, 
Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 

Myrtie  Hooper  is  lecturing  in  Maine. 

Lida  Frick  has  started  a  school  in 
Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Sophie  Heard  is  teaching  domestic 
science  at  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

Nellie  Jones  has  practice  classes  in 
Denver,  Col. 

Kate  Smith  has  charge  of  the  classes 
in  cooking  at  the  Young  Women's 
Christian  Association  of  Lansing, 
Mich. 

Harriet  Sheldon  has  opened  a  cook- 
ing-school at  Lenox,  Mass.  She  gives 
demonstrations,  and  conducts  indus- 
trial classes,  and  classes  for  ladies. 

Ethel wyn  Doolittle  is  engaged  three 
days  each  week  in  the  diet  kitchen  at 
the  New  York  Post-Graduate  Hospital, 
and  three  at  the  German  Hospital, 
New  York. 

BAYBERRY    CANDLES. 

Is  candle-making  a  lost  art,  so  far 
as  the  household  is  concerned  ?  We 
think  so,  until  we  find  bayberry  candles 
for  sale,  —  pale  green,  delicately  aro- 
matic, prettily  shaped.  Many  of  the 
summer  visitors  at  Shinnecock,  L.  I., 
take  them  away  as  souvenirs,  and  for 
a  little  gift,  not  likely  to  be  duplicated. 

The  shrub  is  the  Myricd  cenfcra,  or 
Myrica  gale.  The  leaves  are  crushed 
and  infused  in  water.  What  rises  to 
the  surface  is  clarified,  and  yields  the 
wax.  During  the  civil  war  Southern 
women  resorted  to  these,  thankful  to 
have  light,  even  when  shoes  and  coffee 
and  medicines  were  impossible  luxu- 
ries.—/. D.  C. 


Browning  is  so  obscure  we  can't 
help  feeling  thankful  he  didn't  write  a 
cook-book. — Puck. 


MEALS  IN  ENGLAND  IN  THE 
OLDEN  TIME, 

In  olden  time  the  English  had  three 
meals  a  day,  of  which  the  chief  meal 
was  taken  when  the  work  of  the  day 
was  finished.  The  first  meal  was  at 
9V  dinner  was  about  3  o'clock,  and 
supper  was  taken  just  before  bedtime. 
The  Normans  dined  at  the  old  English 
breakfast  time,  or  a  little  later,  and 
supped  at  7  p.m.  In  Tudor  times  the 
higher  classes  dined  at  1 1  and  supped 
at  5,  but  the  merchants  seldom  took 
their  meals  before  12  and  6  o'clock. 
The  chief  meals,  dinner  and  supper, 
were  taken  in  the  hall  both  by  the  old 
English  and  the  Normans;  for  the 
parlor  did  not  come  into  use  until  the 
reign  of  Elizabeth.  Breakfast  did  not 
become  a  regular  meal  until  quite 
lately ;  and  Dr.  Murray,  in  the  Oxford 
Dictionary,  gave  1463  as  the  date  of  the 
earliest  quotation  in  which  the  word 
occurred.  The  meal  did  not  become 
recognized  until  late  in  the  17th  cen- 
tury, for  Pepys  habitually  took  his 
draught  of  half  a  pint  of  Rhenish 
wine  or  a  drachm  of  strong  waters  in 
the  place  of  a  morning  meal.  Dinner 
was  always  the  great  meal  of  the  day, 
and  from  the  accession  of  Henry  IV. 
to  the  death  of  Queen  Elizabeth  the 
dinners  were  as  sumptuous  and  ex- 
travagant as  any  of  those  now  served. 
Carving  was  then  a  fine  art.  Each 
guest  brought  his  own  knife  and  spoon, 
for  the  small  fork  was  not  introduced 
into  England  until  Thomas  Coryate,  of 
Odcombe,  published  his  "  Crudities  " 
in  161 1.  Pepys  took  his  spoon  and 
fork  with  him  to  the  Lord  Mayor's 
feast  in  1663.  The  absence  of  forks 
led  to  much  stress  being  laid  upon 
the  act  of  washing  the  hands  before 
and   after   meals,  and  to   the  rule  that 


Mend  Your  Stove=Lining. 

Examine  your  Stove-Lining  and  see  if  there  are  any 
holes  or  large  cracks  in  it.  If  so  don't  "  let  it  go," 
or  before  you  know  it  the  fierce  heat  will  gain  direct 
access  to  the  oven,  and  the  oven  plates  will  be  warped 
and  the  stove  ruined.    A  few  cents'  worth  of 

Champion 

Stove  Clay 

USED  NOW  will  save  the  stove.  This  is  a 
combination  of  powdered  fire-clays  and  plum- 
bago. Mix  with  water  and  use  like  mortar  or 
cement.  ANY  ONE  CAN  USE  IT.  Keep  a 
box  on  hand.  It's  cheap  Buy  it  of  stove- 
dealers  and  at  hardware  and  general  stores. 
Write  us  if  you  can't  get  it. 

Don't  neglect  the  stove-lining;  the 
life  of  the  stove  depends  upon  it. 


BRIDGEPORT   CRUCIBLE   CO. 
Bridgeport,  Conn. 


RELIEF  AT  LAST! 


aeSo^ot  SUPERFLUOUS  HAIR 

This  is  the  only  apparatus  ever  invented  which  ladies  can  oper- 
te  in  the  privacy  of  their  own  homes.  Also  permanently  re- 
noves  moles,  warts,  etc.  Results  positive.  Simple  —  Sale  — 
conumiciil.  Ladies  afflicted  are  invited  to  send  for  descrip- 
ve  circular.     Correspondence  confidential. 

J>.  J.  MAHLER,>  Westminster  St.,  Providence,  R.I. 


When  you  write  Advertiser  sublease  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


the  left  hand  alone  should  be  dipped 
into  the  common  dish,  the  right  hand 
being  occupied  with  the  knife.  The 
perfect  dinner  at  the  best  time  of 
English  cookery  consisted  of  three 
courses,  each  complete  in  itself,  and 
terminated  with  a  subtlety  or  device, 
the  whole  being  rounded  off  with 
Ypocras,  after  which  the  guests  retired 
into  another  room,  where  pastry,  sweet- 
meats, and  fruit  were  served  with  the 
choicest  wines.  The  English  were 
essentially  meat-eaters,  and  it  was  not 
until  the  time  of  the  Commonwealth 
that  pudding  attained  its  extraordinary 
popularity ;  indeed,  the  first  mention 
of  pudding  in  the  menus  of  the  "  Buck- 
feast  "  at  St.  Bartholomew's  Hospital 
did  not  occur  until  17 10,  and  in  1712 
there  is  an  item  of  five  shillings  for  ice. 
The  dinner  of  to-day  is  as  different 
from  that  of  the  time  —  say  of  Dr. 
Johnson  — as  that  was  from  the  cuisine 
of  the  Conquest.  If  life  was  violent 
in  early  communities,  the  kind  of  food 
eaten,  and  the  way  of  eating  it,  made 
it  even  more  so.  How  could  one  gorge 
on  ox  roasted  whole,  or,  like  Falstaff, 
feast  on  fat  capons  and  an  intolerable 
deal  of  sack,  without  being  heavy, 
earthy,  and  probably,  from  our  point 
of  view,  noisy  and  ill-bred  ?  The  fine 
manners  of  the  Elizabethan  court  are 
problematical;  they  certainly  would 
not  pass  muster  now.  In  short,  food 
is  both  an  index  of  the  civilization 
attained  and  a  factor  in  the  attainment. 
—  Food  and  Cookery. 


Steel  ornaments  should  always  be 
kept  in  powdered  starch  to  prevent 
their  rusting. 


Household  Hints. 

Lemon  juice  added  to  canned  cran- 
berries helps  to  bring  out  the  latent 
cranberry  flavor  lost  in  the  canning 
process. 

A  palette  knife  is  a  most  convenient 
and  economical  utensil  to' use  in  clean- 
ing bowls  in  which  cake  or  other  mix- 
tures have  been  prepared.  It  is  useful, 
also,  in  removing  the  stiffly  beaten 
white  of  eggs  from  the  bowl  in  which 
it  has  been  beaten,  and  cookies  from 
the  baking -pan,  in  turning  griddle 
cakes  and  in  egging  and  bread-crumb- 
ing croquettes,  cutlets,  fillets  of  fish, 
etc. 

In  making  cake,  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  mixed  into  the  butter,  sugar,  and 
eggs,  before  the  milk  is  added,  gives  a 
finer  grain  and  more  velvety  cake  than 
is  obtained  by  any  other  order  of  mix- 
ing. —  M.  M.  M. 


GOOD    TABLE    MANNERS. 

There  is  no  mark  of  breeding  so 
distinctive  as  good  manners  at  table. 
You  may  dress  up  to  the  latest  fashion, 
carry  your  clothes  as  if  born  to  them, 
stand  the  test  of  almost  every  trying 
position,  and  come  to  grief  at  the  table 
simply  because  eating  and  drinking  are 
ungraceful  acts  at  their  best.  The 
process  of  conveying  pieces  of  food  to 
the  mouth  and  washing  them  down 
with  liquid  requires  all  of  one's  care 
and  thought  to  prevent  it  from  raising 
disgust  in  the  minds  of  observers. 


Exhaustion 

HORSFORD'S  ACID  PHOSPHATE. 

Taken  after  exhaustive  illness  it 
acts  as  a  wholesome  tonic,  giving 


Silver  spoons  and  forks  may  be  kept 
bright  when  used  daily  by  soaking 
them  in  strong  borax  water  for  a  few 
hours.  The  water  should  be  at  boiling 
heat  when  the  silver  is  put  in  it. 

When  you  w.ite  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  M  - 


renewed  strength  and  vigor  to  the 
entire  system. 

Sold  by  Druggists. 


'!.?.?'^1i 


A  Perfect  Breakfast 

Breakfast  has  to  supply  the 
brain  and  muscle  for  the  hus- 
band's daily  battle.  It  must  con- 
tain brain  and  nerve  food  It 
must  be  a  tissue  builder.  It  must 
be  easy  to  cook  and  easy  to  di- 
gest To  be  just  right  it  must 
include  Quaker  Oats. 

THE  EASY  FOOD 

Quaker  Oats 

THE  WORLD'S  BREAKFAST 


■J/fOft/g. 


ACCEPT  NO  SUBSTITUTE 


n  n  it  'h  ix  m  fn  iv 


n  ix 


GAME1 

IS  MANY  TIMES  TOO'CAMY* 

TO  GIVE  THE  NICEST 
TASTE  TO  ALL  GAME  USE 

Vf  4   i 

SAUCE 

The  Original  ft  Genuine  Worcestershire. 

If  your  grocer  attempts 
to  substitute  an  imitation 
send  it  back  none  so  good. 

John  Duncan's  Sons,Agen|-s. 

&  NEW  YORK.  rS 


"  •  •'"'     '  , 

The 

-*js 

"H&W" 

Tea= 

y^^^K^B^^HF^^ 

Kettle. 

^V              CAST  SOLID 
IN 

|j|    ONE    PIECE 

FROM   OUR 

SPECIAL 

HARD 

Aluminum. 

Cover  opened  and 
No  seams 

closed  by  bail. 
,  knobs,  rivets  or  solder. 

A    LARGE   LINE   OF 

HIGH    GRADE 

COOKING    UTENSILS. 
The  Hill,  Whitnev  &  Wood  Co. 

115    BEACON   ST,  WALTHAM,    MASS. 

SEND   FOR  CATALOGUE. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


The 
Little  Red  Devil 


on  a  can  of  Deviled  Ham  is  a 
guarantee  that  you  are  getting 
the  nicest  and  purest  article  that 
Kk  it  is  possible  to  make.    Under- 
wood^ Original  Deviled  Ham 
is  all  that  the  most  fastidious 
1EWL  epicure  could  ask  for     It  has 
been  made  in  New  England  for 
the  past  thirty  years  and  is  to-day.     It  may  be 
bought  at  the  best  stores  in  every  civilized  coun- 
try in  the  world,  and  is  always  the  same. 

Containing  only  sugar-cured  Ham  and  pure, 
delicate  spices,  put  up  in  air-tight  cans;  wherever 
you  buy  it,  you  will  find  it  deliciously  palatable. 
"  Stamped  with  the  devil,  but  fit  for  the  gods." 
In  order  that  you  may  try  and  appreciate  it 
yourself,  we  will  send,  on  receipt  of  your  name, 
a  full-sized  J5-cent  can  FREE. 

This  offer  is  only  good  until  April  1st* 


veil. 


UNDERWOOD  CO., 
Boston,  Mass.. 


U.  S.  A. 


Before  starching  your  clothes,  put  a 
teaspoonful  of  pulverized  borax  in  the 
boiling  starch  to  give  a  lovely  lustre  to 
the  clothes.  It  will  also  prevent  the 
iron  from  sticking. 


To  wash  calico  without  fading,  put 
three  gills  of  salt  in  four  quarts  of 
water.  Put  the  calico  in  this  while  the 
solution  is  hot,  and  leave  it  in  until  it. 
becomes  cold,  then  wash  and  rinse. 


To  prevent  colored  stockings  from* 
fading,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  black 
pepper  into  the  water  in  which  they 
are  rinsed.  Black  stockings,  or  those 
which  are  dark-colored,  should  never 
be  washed  in  water  that  has  been  used 
for  other  clothes.  Black  pepper  in  the 
water  will  also  keep  black  calico  or 
cambric  from  fading. 


A  good  preparation  for  the  toilet  is- 
made  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white 
castile  soap,  three  or  four  of  orris  rootr 
powdered,  and  a  handful  of  oatmeal. 
Let  all  soak  together  in  a  cupful  of 
warm  water  for  a  couple  of  hours ;. 
then  add  a  few  teaspoonfuls  of  this 
preparation  to  the  water  in  which  you 
bathe.  It  is  cheap  and  good  for  the 
skin. 


******************* 

WORRY    KILLS 

but  Congress  Yeast  Powder  kills  worry—  *  * 


no  chance 
for  worry, 
for  it  al- 
ways works 
well. 


::  CONGRESS 


I !    Yeast  Powder 

•  f  makes   even-thing: 
i  plig-ht—  lisrht  bread 

M 

Ask  your   Qrocer 


light    cake,    light 
labor,  light  hearts. 


PqWDEtf 


;;D.  &  L.SLADE  CO., 
t  \        BOSTON. 

*****»******************' 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


m 
m 


CLAM  CHOWDER. 

Many  people  who  used  to  live  along  the  Atlantic  Coast 
now  reside  in  the  interior,  far  from  fresh  and  always  de- 
licious sea  foods  and  Clam-Bakes. 
The  first  course  in  a  good  old 
Rhode  Island  Clam-Bake  is  Clam 
Chowder.  Burnham's  Clam 
Chowder  is  as  delicious  an  article 
as  was  ever  eaten  on  the  New 
England  Coast.  One  can  contains 
enough  for  six  portions. 

Burnham's   Clam  Bouillon, 
as  a  first  dinner  course,  cannot  be 
excelled.  Thousands  of  testimonials 
as  to  its  efficacy  in  the  sick-room.     Sold  by  all  grocers. 

E  S.  BURNHAM  CO.,  NEW  YORK. 


Tim 
HE 


he.  ...Hub 
Line  of 
Ranges 

Speak  for  Themselves 
in  Thousands  of  Homes. 

The  Hub  Ranges  are  used  in  the 
New  York,  Boston,  Providence, 
Hartford,    Worcester,   and    many 

-. ....-  -_ .,^— -- ■■-- ----- -._■.--  "  other  Cooking-Schools. 

IS    STRONGER    ENDORSEMENT    POSSIBLE  9 

Smith  &  Anthony  CO..  makers  hub  ranges  and  heaters, 

48-54  UNION  STREET,  BOSTON. 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


WHEATENA. 


The  story  of  the  evo- 
lution of"  WHEATENA 
is  a  remarkable  one. 
it  took  its  inventor  five 
KGadTr^-TV^^  j,^  years  to  so  perfect  it 
^.^Vlh  ^L'AX>°K  that  he  could  safely 
challenge  the  world  to 
produce  its  equal.  He 
had  four  distinct  and 
mportant  objects  in 
view  in  its  creation  : 
first,  the  highest  nu- 
tritive qualities  ;  sec- 
ond, the  most  delicate 
flavor;  third,  easy  di- 
gestibility; fourth,  the 
quickest  cooking.  All 
these  he  secured,  but 
not  until  many  thous- 
and experiments  had 
been  tried  and  hundreds  of  obstacles  overcome. 
But  the  result  was  worth  all  the  time  and  trouble 
involved.  It  revolutionized  all  old  methods  of  pre- 
paring breakfast  foods.  It  made  the  early  morning 
meal  an  affair  involving  almost  no  trouble  at  all. 
It  made  it  easier  for  the  housewife  or  the  cook  to 
prepare  the  substantial,  hearty,  nourishing,  sus- 
taining part  of  a  breakfast  than  to  make  the  ac- 
companying tea  or  coffee.  Two  minutes  for  the 
fluids  and  one  minute  for  the  solids!  As  soon  as 
water  boils  all  is  ready  !  What  a  revelation  !  What 
a  saving  of  time,  labor  and  patience  !  Few  inven- 
tions of  this  inventive  age  have  equalled  in  value 
to  the  worker  with  hands  or  brain  the  wonderful 
cereal,  WHEATENA. 

all  good  grocers  sell  wheatena. 

199  Tremont  St., 
BOSTON. 


HEALTH  FOOD  CO.. 


BRO-MAN-GEL-ON 

DESSERT  JELLY. 

SIMPLV   DELICIOUS. 

1    package   Bromangelon— 

1  pint  boiling  water — 

2  minutes'  time — 
Nothing  more. 


1  Tavor* —  1.4-iiion.  Oralis***,  Ntrawlierry, 
1£.i--»Im-i  i  *. .  Cherry. 

Free  Sample.— Send  3c.  in  stamps  for  postage, 
and  your  grocer's  name,  and  we  will  mail  you  free 
a  sample  of  Bromangelon  of  any  of  the  five  flavors. 


DRINK    BUTTERMILK. 

Buttermilk,  which  some  epicures 
despise,  is  a  beverage  that  we  might 
drink  more  generally  with  great  benefit. 
It  is  established  beyond  question  now 
that  buttermilk  possesses  medicinal 
qualities  that  pure  milk  and  cream 
lack.  It  acts,  for  instance,  freely  upon 
the  secretive  organs,  stimulates  the 
action  of  the  kidneys  and  liver,  thereby 
purifying  the  blood  by  removing  effete 
matter  from  the  system,  and  acts  as  a 
mild  laxative.  Like  milk,  however,  it 
should  be  cooled  immediately  after 
churning,  and  be  kept  at  a  low  temper- 
ature. It  should  not  have  ice  in  it, 
but  if  kept  on  ice  it  will  make  a  good 
drink. 


Few  stains  are  more  obstinate  than 
those  made  by  vaseline.  How  to  re- 
move them  was  told  recently  by  a  do- 
mestic-science teacher.  "  Have  ready," 
she  said,  "  a  moderately  hot  iron  and 
four  pieces  of  blotting-paper.  Put  two 
thicknesses  on  a  board  and  wet  the 
spot  thoroughly  with  benzine.  Lay  on 
the  stained  cloth,  cover  with  two  other 
pieces  of  blotting-paper,  and  press 
quickly  with  the  iron. 

"  An  old  stain  may  need  two  or  even 
three  applications  to  remove  the  stain. 
The  caution  is  repeated  that  benzine, 
being  very  inflammable,  must  be  used 
with  great  care." 

Women's  Educational  and  Industrial  Union, 

264  BOYLSTON  ST.,  BOSTON. 


311   W.  40th  STREET,  NEW    YORK. 

iVhen  you  write  Advertisers%p>ase  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


School  of  Housekeeping 

For  training  employers  and  employees. 

Business  Agency 

For  clerical  and  all  kinds  of  industrial  labor. 

Domestic   Bureau 

For  every  grade  of  house-workers.  Refer- 
ences of  all  persons  on  file  in  the  office  for 
inspection  of  employer. 


™  ™  ~  TIT  7IF.  /f\  TIT  ~  7f\  55  /f\  /|\  ^  7|\  /|\  ?f\  ?f\  7f\  /f\  7W\ 


The  Best 
Substitute  for  Coffee 


When  you  get  tired  of  other 
substitutes,  as  you  will,  try  the  OLD  GRIST  MILL  WHEAT  COFFEE. 

It  is  satisfying  and  healthful.    You  never  tire  of  it.    Boil  three  minutes. 

OLD  GRIST  MILL  ROLLED  WHEAT.  It  is  delicious  and  nourish- 
ing.    Ready  for  table  in  three  to  five  minutes. 

OLD  GRIST  MILL  TOASTED  WHEAT.  The  children's  choice  for 
breakfast. 

OLD  GRIST  MILL  ENTIRE=WHEAT  FLOUR.  By  eating  the  Health 
Bread  made  from  this  flour,  you  will  save  doctors'  and  druggists' 
bills.  It  is  nature's  brain  and  nerve  food,  rich  in  phosphates  and 
nitrates  without  an  excess  of  starch. 

Old  Grist  Mill  Health  Foods  are  perfect 
foods  for  men,  women,  and  children. 


POTTER  &  WRIGHTINGTON, 


BOSTON. 


Jjy  jjl  -jl:  jl.  jru  jl:  \*/  jl:  ••  un:  jl:  jl:  jl:  jl:  jl: 

/|\  y%\  ;f\  /(h  /|\  /f\  7W-  Tfs  55  /In  /l\  /f\  /|\  /(h  /|\ 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


IC&Hl 

EXTRA  CREAN 

OLIVE 
OIL, 

UCCAii 


FT™*  CREAM  OIIYE  OIL' 

BCT7UD  IN  LECHCRN.ITAU. 

L^'CODMAWltHAUtfw^g 


OUR  OWN 

IMPORTING  &  BOTTLINfr 


WE  KNOW  YOU  WANT 
ONLY  THE 

Best  Olive  Oil 


For    this    reason    we 

import  THE  BEST, 

and  you  can  buy  it  of 

us  at  what  you  are 

paying  for 

ordinary  oil. 

We  carry  the  finest  line  of 
Brandies,  Sherries,  Ports 
and  Madeira,  for  cooking: 
and  medicinal  use,  to  be 
found  in  Boston. 

Send  for  our  Price  List. 

Goods  delivered  in  Boston 
and  Suburbs,  FREE. 

Mail  orders  promptly  shipped 
to  any  point. 


Codman^HallG? 

L,  DIRECTLY      OPPOSITE  A 

•  NEW  SOUTH    STATION  °) 

^  DEWEY  SQUARE  J\ 

IhL-  TELEPHONE       '— 
.881  OXFORD 


M 


w 


NOVELTY    FOR     FINGER-BOWLS. 

The  Japanese  have  prepared  little 
pieces  of  painted  wood  which,  when 
thrown  into  water,  will  expand  into 
odd  flowers  which  they  call  "  water 
flowers."  These  are  the  latest  novel- 
ties for  finger  -  bowls.  These  little 
sticks  are  to  be  thrown  in  the  water  in 
the  finger-bowls  after  the  bowls  have 
been  placed  in  front  of  the  guests. 
The  novelty  consists  in  seeing  these 
little  splinters  expand  into  flowers ;  and 
they  are  right  pretty,  too. 


The  experiment  of  the  Common- 
wealth community  in  Georgia,  in  which 
over  eighty  persons  are  being  fed  and 
maintained  in  health  and  vigor  at  a 
cost  for  food  of  three  cents  a  day  each, 
is  itself  indisputable  evidence  of  the 
economy  of  the  vegetarian  fare. 

It  is  reported  that  no  less  than  fifty- 
five  thousand  children  in  London  alone 
go  to  school  so  insufficiently  fed  as  to 
be  practically  unable  to  profit  to  any 
reasonable  extent  by  the  instruction 
offered  them.  It  is  one  of  the  most 
hopeful  indications  in  the  new  educa- 
tion that  the  physiological  basis  of 
brainwork  and  the  high  value  of  ex- 
pert medical  advice  in  every  depart- 
ment of  the  executive  arrangements  of 
the  school  are  given  a  leading  if  not  a 
foremost  place.  The  day  is  rapidly 
approaching  when  a  school  physician 
will  be  regarded  as  indispensable  as  a 
school  teacher.  —  Medical  News. 


The  School  of  Housekeeping,  45  St. 
Botolph  Street,  opened  its  new  term  for  em- 
ployers January  1,  with  seven  resident  pupils 
and  the  out-pupils,  making  full  classes  in 
Chemistry  of  Foods,  House  Sanitation,  Home 
Economics,  Cooking,  Marketing,  etc.  The 
fact  that  one  pupil  has  been  sent  from  Balti- 
more to  fill  a  fellowship  maintained  by  the 
Arundel  Club  of  that  city  testifies  to  the  ex- 
tension of  the  reputation  of  the  school,  and 
the  recognition  of  the  need  of  scientific  prepa- 
ration for  the  career  of  the  home-maker.  The 
second  term  for  employers  will  begin  April  1. 
The  new  class  of  employees  will  begin  Febru- 
ary 15,  continuing  five  months. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


^  No  Heat 
Wasted ! 


The  Glenwood  Home 
Grand  has  an  asbestos 
lined  oven,  which  pre- 
vents waste  of  heat  or 
fuel,  and  good  cooks 
say  the  baking  is  per- 
fection itself. 


GLENWOOD 

The  Glenwood  Agent  has  them. 


SAWYER'S 

Crystal 

Blue 

gives  a 
beautiful  tint 
to  linens, 
laces  and 
goods  that 
are  worn 
and  faded. 

Be  sure  that 
you  get 

SAWYER'S. 
40  YEARS  THE  PEOPLE'S  CHOICE,  j 


Ow!  Wow!! 
That's  the  Stuff! 

BAYLE'S 
HORSERADISH 
MUSTARD 

The  Original  &  Genuine. 

IS  THE  ONLY  MUSTARD! 

And  the  finest  condi- 
ment in  the  world. 

Beware  of  Imitations. 

Sole  Maker, 

CEO. A. BAYLE 

St.  Louis,  U.  S.  A. 

For  sale  by  wholesale 

and  retail  grocers 

throughout  the  United 

States. 


THE     OLD     RELIABLE. 


ixon's  "c%b„a»rftot 
v©  Polish. 

JVever  turns  Red  or  Rusts  your  Stoves. 

JOS.  DIXON  CRUCIBLE  CO,,  JERSEY  CITY,  N.  J, 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


F^u  b  ifo  Am 


.    \.-   & 


BRIGHT 

AND  SPARKLING 

RUBlfOATTl 


Healthful  and  clear  as  a 
winter  morning.  Every  drop 
cleanses  the  teeth  and  pre- 
serves the  gums.  Perfect 
in  action,  gratifying  in  its 
use.  ' 

25    CENTS    A    BOTTLE. 
At    all    druggists.       Sample 
Vial  Free  for  two  cents  in 
stamps. 

E.  W.  HOYT 
&  CO., 
Lowell, 
Mass. 


B>. 


A    WOMAN'S    PROBLEMS. 

When  breakfast  things  are  cleared  away 

The  same  old  problems  rising, 
For  she  again  sits  down  to  think 

Of  sqmething  appetizing. 
The  dinner  she  must  soon  prepare, 

Or  give  the  cook  directions, 
And  great  is  the  relief  she  feels 

When  she  has  made  selections. 

When  dinner  things  are  cleared  away 

The  problem  that  is  upper 
Is  just  the  same,  with  one  word  changed : 

"  What  can  I  get  for  supper  ? " 
She  wants  to  give  them  something  new, 

And  long  is  meditation, 
Till  choice  is  made,  and  then  begins 

The  work  of  preparation. 

When  supper  things  are  cleared^away 

Again  her  mind  is  worried. 
And  then  she  thinks  of  breakfast  time, 

When  meals  are  often  hurried. 
She  ponders  o'er  it  long  until 

The  question  is  decided, 
Then  bustles  round  till  she  makes  sure 

That  everything's  provided. 

Three  times  each  day,  week  in,  week  out, 

This  problem  she  is  meeting, 
And  often  she  is  sore  perplexed 

In  making  plans  for  eating. 
For  one  likes  this,  and  one  likes  that, 

And  what  is  appetizing 
To  some,  is  by  the  other  spurned, 

As  food  that  they're  despising. 

That  "  woman's  work  is  never  done  " 

Has  often  been  disputed, 
But  that  she's  worried  is  a  fact, 

And  cannot  be  refuted. 
The  worry  over  what  to  eat 

Is  greatest  of  these  questions, 
And  glad  she'd  be  if  someone  else 

Would  make  the  meal  suggestions. 

—  Pittsburg  Chronicle-  Telegraph. 

Beware  of  Ointments  for  Catarrh  that 
Contain  Mercury 

as  mercury  will  surely  destroy  the  sense  of 
smell  and  completely  derange  tne  whole  system 
when  entering  it  through  tne  mucous  surfaces. 
Such  articles  should  never  be  used  except  on 
prescriptions  from  reputable  physicians,  as  the 
damage  they  will  do  is  tenfold  to  the  good  you 
can  possibly  derive  from  them.  Hall's  Catarrh 
Cure,  manufactured  by  P.  J.  Cheney  &  Co., 
Toledo,  O.,  contains  no  mercury,  and  is  taken 
internally,  acting  directly  upon  the  blood  and 
mucous  surfaces  of  the  system.  In  buying 
Hall's  Catarrh  Cure  he  sure  you  gel  the  genuine. 
It  is  taken  internally,  and  made  in  Toledo.  Ohio, 
by  F.  J.  Cheney  &  id.    Testimonials  free. 

Sold  by  Druggists,  price  76c.  per  bottle. 

Hall's  Family  Pills  are  the  best 

When  you  write  Advertisers, please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


GAILB 


BRAND 

CONDENSED 

Borden's  Condensed,  Milk  Co 


FOR 

NURSING 

AND  GENERAL 

COOKING. 

SEND  FOR 

"BABIES* 

A  BOOK  FOR 
MOTHERS. 

MILK. 


BUY    THE    CELEBRATED 

Chamberlin 
Steam  Cooker 

Just  the  thing  for  Summer. 

Used  on  a  gas  or  oil  stove  it  requires  but 
very  little  flame  and  gives  out  no  odor. 
It  will  do  the  everyday  cooking  with 
least  possible  trouble.  Unsurpassed  as  a 
Fruit  Canner.for  which  directions  go  with 
each  Cooker,  and  it  is  used  extensively  as 
a  Sterilizer. 
The  best  in  the  world.  Send  for  circular. 

S.  W,  CHAMBERLIN  CO. 

Office  and  Manufactory,  25  Union  Street, 
BOSTON,  MASS. 


FHNCY  POTATOES 


|E    are  now  showing    all 
the  different  devices  for 
serving    potatoes  in   all 
the  various  styles. 

Lattice     Potato     Quirlers, 
Ricers,  French  Fry,  Saratoga. 
Bernhardt,     Chip,     Corkscrew, 
Bird's  nest;  also  a  large  assortment  of  Veg- 
etable Cutters  and  Knives  for  garnishing,  etc. 


F".    A.    WALKE 
83-85  CORNHILL, 

Catalogue  by  mail,  10c. 


:r    &    co. 

BOSTON. 


|i\  «,„'*   „J/,-y/i~  '//,     "A    "//    Vi  ft?*'', 


Seal  Your  Jelly 

jam  and  preserves  by  pouring  a 
little  melted  paraffine  on  top  of 
each   glass   and  jar.     It   will 
harden  immediately  and  form 
a  covering  that  will  keep  the 
preserves  sweet,  clean  and  as 
soft  and  fresh  at  the  top  as  at 
the    bottom.    Perfectly  pure, 
tasteless,  odorless,  airproof, 
waterproof,  acidproof,  and 
a  protection  against  ver- 
min and  mould. 

Paraffine  is  sold  in  pound  pack» 

ages   for    household  uses  at 

drug.groeery  :in6  general 

stores.     Made  by 

Standard  Oil  Co. 


fAIPHAl 

SALAD 
CREAM 

CONTAINS  NO  OIL] 


LPHA  FOOD  G>. 


BOSTON 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


"PHE  pleasure  of  a  dinner  is  marred 
unless  served  quietly.      DON'T 
SLIP   Heels   and    Soles   avoid   noise 
and  DON'T  SLIP. 

THEY  SA  VE  DISHES. 

HEELS,  35c.  SOLES,  50c. 

SOLD  EVERYWHERE. 


TOO    TIRED. 

There  is  too  much  tiredness  in  the 
world,  especially  among  busy  women. 
Half  the  day's  work  has  to  be  done  by 
force  of  will,  since  there  is  not  force  of 
body  enough  to  carry  them  through ; 
and  many  who  are  apparently  in  good 
health  are  haunted  by  hot  foreheads, 
and  an  ever-present  desire  to  lie  down. 

Most  women  accept  this  as  a  matter 
of  course.  To  be  tired  is  normal, 
whether  one  has  charge  of  a  baby,  or  a 
typewriter,  or  a  boarding-house.  To 
tell  them  that  nature  intended  back 
and  burden  to  be  in  due  proportion 
does  not  help  matters.  They  are  too 
tired  to  theorize. 

To  get  up  fresh  and  strong  in  the 
morning,  go  through  our  duties  vigor- 
ously, with  energy  to  spare  for  a  song 
and  a  smile,  and  lie  down  in  the  happy, 
wholesome  weariness  that  means  in- 
stant sleep  —  that  surely  was  the  origi- 
nal plan  for  our  days.  Are  we  never 
to  get  back  to  it  ? 


A  Most  Successful  Treatment  for 
Pneumonia  has  been  brought  to  our  atten- 
tion. It  does  away  with  the  unsatisfactory, 
inconvenient  hot  poultice,  which  often  blisters 
and  sometimes  chills,  but  always  keeps  the 
patient  disturbed  and  the  nurse  mussing  and 
fussing. 

This  preparation  is  so  mild  and  harmless 
that  it  may  be  used  on  a  baby's  eye.  It  in- 
stantly becomes  active  when  the  blood  in  any 
part  of  the  system  becomes  congested.  The 
more  congestion  the  more  active  it  becomes. 

It  starts  the  water  of  the  congested  blood 
out  through  the  pores  —  just  like  sweat,  in 
this  way  making  room  for  warm,  pure  blood 
to  take  its  place,  thus  promptly  relieving  pain 
and  enabling  the  patient  to  breathe  more  freely. 

It  acts  equally  as  prompt  on  chronic  bron- 
chitis, pleurisy,  and  peritonitis. 

This  preparation  should  be  spread  on  a 
piece  of  linteen  (felted  antiseptic  cotton)  or  on 
fleeced  cotton  cloth,  about  the  same  as  you 
would  spread  butter  on  a  slice  of  bread. 
Have  the  poultice  large  enough  to  cover  the 
chest  and  pit  of  the  stomach ;  it  can  be  kept 
on  for  hours  without  changing. 

It  gives  wonderfully  quick  relief. 

Bamacea  costs  Si.oo  per  half-pound,  and 
may  be  had,  if  needed  quickly,  by  telegraphing 
to  George  D.  Moulton,  Grocers  Exchange, 
Boston,  Mass. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


\^ 


TT  P-I  JE 


PONDEX 

SHOE 


*=*  O  F^ 


WOMEN 

A  GENUINE 
SIX  DOLLAR 
ARTICLE     FOR 


50 


A  LL 
STYLES 
A  ISl  D 

Leathers 

MADE    BY 

DEXTER  POND   &   CO. 

BOSTON  STORE 
I59TREM0NTST. 


AND 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention 


*jujl:_i_:jlj*-;jl-*-J£--jL-Jl;jl;jl.-jl.jl;^ 

It 
K 

I? 

H 

V. 
V. 

H 
K 
H 
N 

if /p\  /i\  /»\  /i\  /f\  /fs  /V\  7f\7f\7f\7|^7fs7f\7|T*i 
The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Carpets 
Oriental  Rugs. 


Our  assortment  is  large  and  varied.  Our 
experience  in  meeting  the  needs  of  house- 
holders, combined  with  the  purchaser's 
taste  and  good  judgment,  will  give  most 
pleasing  results. 

Artistic  Effects, 

Serviceable  Fabrics, 

Satisfactory  Prices. 


Our  services  are  at  your  command. 


JOEL 


GOLDTHWAIT  & 

169  Washington  Street, 


CO. 


Near  Cornhill. 


BOSTON. 


TAR  is  healing  and  antiseptic 
— kills  germs  on  mucous  mem= 
branes;  HOREHOUND  is  aro= 
matic  and  strengthening; 
HONEY  soothes  the  irritated 
throat  and  heals. 

Hale's  Honey  of 
Horehound  ^Tar 

for  more  than  a  generation 
has  cured  coughs,  colds  and 
affections  of  the  throat.  Pleas= 
ant  to  taste.     Children  like  it. 

For  sale  by  all  druggists. 

Take  no  substitute. 


PIKE'S  Toothache  Drops  cure  in  one  minute. 

CO-OPERATIVE 
COOKING- CLASSES. 

|  Mr.  Frank  M.  Keith, 

Professional  Instructor 
of  Cooking, 

is  open  for  engagements  to  give  dem- 
onstration lectures  in  Cooking  for 
Women's  Clubs,  Ladies'  Aid  Societies, 
societies  and  organizations  in  general, 
equally  dividing  the  receipts. 

The  treasuries  of  these  organizations 
can  thus  be  increased  and  the  towns 
benefited  by  an  instructive  course  of 
lessons. 


$ 


FOR   FULL    PARTICULARS   ADDRESS 

Frank  M.  Keith, 

10  BEAVER  STREET,  WORCESTER,  MASS. 


BERWICK    SPONGE    CAKE. 

In  1845,  William  C.  Briggs  lost  a  leg" 
in  a  Maine  railway  accident.  In  those 
early  days  railroads  had  small  capital, 
and  could  ill  afford  to  defend  damage 
suits.  Besides,  Briggs  had  a  clear  case. 
But  he  said  :  "  Build  me  a  restaurant 
in  North  Berwick,  and  stop  every  train 
five  minutes  there  and  I  won't  sue." 
The  restaurant  was  built,  and  Briggs" 
wife  made  sponge  cake  to  sell  there. 
The  recipe  was  a  secret ;  the  cake 
became  famous  all  through  New  Eng- 
land, and  was  sent  everywhere  in 
boxes.  In  twenty  years  Briggs  retired 
rich,  but  lost  all  his  money  in  specula- 
tion. The  restaurant  is  closed,  and 
no  one  now  knows  the  secret  of  the 
Berwick  sponge  cake. 


A  Domestic  Leak.  —  Few  housekeepers 
realize  what  a  terrible  leak  a  cracked  or  broken 
stove  lining  is  and  how  the  dollars  run  out 
through  the  holes. 

If  your  teakettle  springs  a  leak,  but  is  still 
fairly  good,  you  get  it  mended.  You  do  not 
throw  it  away  and  buy  a  new  one,  losing  a 
two-dollar  kettle  for  want  of  ten  cents'  worth 
of  solder. 

Why  not  exercise  the  same  good  sense  with 
regard  to  your  stove  lining  —  the  clay  lining  to 
the  firebox?  Watch  it  for  leaks  as  you  do 
the  teakettle. 

The  iron  plates  that  form  your  stove  oven 
are  quite  thin,  and  the  purpose  of  the  clay 
lining  of  the  firebox  is  to  prevent  the  fierce 
heat  from  coming  into  direct  contact  with  the 
oven  plates.  When  this  lining  becomes 
cracked  or  holes  broken  through  it,  as  con- 
stantly occurs,  then  the  heat  gets  through  and 
warps  the  oven  plate,  often  cracking  it.  When 
this  occurs,  your  oven  no  longer  bakes  evenly 
and  you  think  the  stove  is  worn  out  or  was 
not  a  good  one  in  the  first  place,  and  you  dis- 
card it  and  buy  a  new  one. 

If  housekeepers  would  get  into  the  habit  of 
keeping  on  hand  a  small  box  of  Champion 
Stove  Clay  and  using  it,  they  would  save 
many  dollars,  as  well  as  many  disappointments 
in  unsatisfactory  baking. 

A  few  cents'  worth  of  this  clay,  applied  to  a 
crack  or  hole  in  time,  often  saves  the  cost  of  a 
new  stove.  It  is  a  composition  of  powdered 
fire  clays  and  plumbago.  To  use,  mix  with 
a  little  water  and  apply  like  mortar  or  cement 
with  a  small  trowel  or  old  caseknife.  It  is 
cheap  stuff,  and  anyone  can  use  it.  See  ad- 
vertisement in  this  magazine. 

Don't  neglect  your  stove  lining  ;  the  life  of 
your  stove  depends  upon  it. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Wii 


Improved  Shoe  for  Ladies 

4  AQUAJIGHT  O 
*  HEALTH    1 

Soles  chemically  treated. 
Strictly   Hand  =  Sewed   and    Watertight. 
Best  of  Leathers  in  all  the  Latest  Styles. 


ONE    FLIGHT. 
ELEVATOR. 


AQUA-TIGHT  SHOE  CO. 

No.  7  Temple  PL,  Boston. 


REGISTERED 
TRADE  MARK 


UTCHER'S    BOSTON    POLISH 

MANUFACTURED   BY   THE 

Butcher  polish  go., 


D 

^^^^B        is  the  best  finish  for 

F-L.OORS, 

Interior  Woodwork  and  Furniture. 

Circulars  Sent  on  Application. 
For   Sale  by  Dealers  in  Painters'  Supplies. 


356  Atlantic  Ave.,  Boston,  Mass. 


To  any  subscriber  sending  us  one  new 
yearly  subscription  at  50  cents,  we  will 
send    postpaid,    as    a    premium,    a    set    of 


Original  Measuring-Spoons.  With  them 
absolute  accuracy  is  obtained  in  meas- 
uring QUARTER  TEASPOONS,  MALE 
TEASPOONS,  FULL   TEA.SROONS. 

BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


^999339939 


-3-S-S.S~S.2~S~a~5-S 


333 


We  want  Agents  in  every  city  and 
town  in  the  United  States  to  obtain 
subscribers  to  this  Magazine.  A  very 
liberal  commission  is  paid,  and  many 
Agents  are  earning  nice  sums  weekly. 

THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE, 

372    BOYLSTON    STREET,        -        -         BOSTON,  MASS. 


•*£££33333333333333£££;3££££;c^ 


COOKING-SCHOOL  REPORTS. 

Cbe  Hew  England  farmer 

20  Devonshire  St.,  Boston, 

publishes  a  full  account  of  the  weekly  demonstra- 
tion lectures  at  the  Boston  Cooking -School.  It 
also  has  a  page  devoted  to  Domestic  Science, 
and  other  interests  of  women. 

Single  copies,  5  cents. 
3  months'  subscription,  50  cents. 

When  you  write  Advertisers, please  mention 


% Miller's  Hotel,! 


39  W.  26th  St.,  New  York  City, 


Between    Broadway,  Fifth    and    Sixth  Avenues, 

Near  Madison  Square  Park.  jj£ 

Clean,  comfortable,  quiet.  Convenient  to  retail  w 
trade,  leading  churches,  theatres  and  places  of  W 
amusement.  Astrictlytemperance house.  Twenty-  t* 
five  of  the  permanent  guests  have  been  here  an  ?> 
average  of  twelve  years.  Send  for  circular  giving  ^ 
size,  location,  outlook,  water  and  heat  supply,  rfr 
*v  with  rate  for  each  of  the  ninety-three  rooms.  ^ 

CHAS.  H.  HAYNES, 

Proprietor,    xj 
The  Boston  Cooking -School  Magazine. 


large  Queen 
Olives.stuffed  with 
mild,  sweet  peppers 


^specially  treated. 

^i\     >  WHOLESOME, 


DELICIOUS,APPETIZING 

\   '■  An  Ideal  Table  Relish. 

Are  made  of  large  Manzanilia  olives,  prepared  exactly  as 
Pirn  Olas.  differing  only  in  flavor  which  some  connoisseur 

prefeK  ^Ikette  ©ftve  ©it 

Made  in  Njce. France,  only  from  seleetedsound'blives. 

Absolutely  pure,  unadulterated.having  a  unique  and  delicious 

flavor.peculiar  to  itself.and  superior  to  any  other  oil. 

Sold  by  all  dealers. 

Seville  Packing  Co.,  NewYork 

Exclusivists  in  Olives  and  Olive  Products 


These  trade-mark  crisscross  lines  on  every  package. 


GLUTE 

SPECIAL 
K.  C.  WHOL 

Unlike    all    ot 

For  b 
Farwcll  &  Rhincs, 


For 
DYSPEPSIA. 

FLOUR. 
AT  FLOUR. 

Ask    Grocers. 
write 
own,N.Y.,U.S.A. 


COMPLETE  EGG  SEPARATOR 


WHITE 

FROM 

YOLK 

INSTANTLY 

No  Kitchen 
C  omplete 
without  it. 


Prepaid  to  any  addressPrice25c 

FARR  &.  CO. 

145  La  Salle  St. Chic  ago 


PUKE    FOOD    SPECIALTIES. 

From  FACTORY  TO  FAMILY  direct. 

Buy  your  Foods  from  us  at  lowest  retail  prices  and  we  give 
you  with  every  order  all  the  retailer's,  jobher's  and  salesman's 
profits  in  valuable  premiums  at  cost  price. 

Our  Foods  are  guaranteed  as  to  Quality  and  Absolute  Purity 
and  give  perfect  satisfaction. 

Send  for  our  list  of  Food  Specialties  and  Illustrated  Premi- 
ums containing  particulars  of  our  unprecedented  liberal  offer. 
American  st**rilize<l  Foo«l  Co., 

610  Sudbury  Building,  BOSTON. 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention 


FRESH    AIR    AND    WOMEN. 

Women,  as  they  grow  older,  are  apt 
to  live  much  indoors.  I  believe  the 
fat,  flabby,  paunchy  woman,  whether 
purple  or  pale,  with  feeble,  irritable 
heart  and  "  inadequate "  kidneys,  is 
usually  the  victim  of  rebreathed  air.  It 
must,  I  think,  sooner  or  later  be  recog- 
nized, that  many  of  the  increasing  ills- 
which  it  has  been  the  fashion  to  charge 
on  the  "  hurry  and  brain  fag,"  inciden- 
tal to  the  high  state  of  civilization  and 
the  large  population,  are  in  reality  due 
to  the  greater  contamination  of  the  air 
we  breathe  by  the  waste  products  of 
that  population,  and  that  toxines  ex- 
creted by  the  lungs  will,  in  time,  take 
high  rank  among  these  as  both  potent 
and  insidious.  If  this  should  come  to- 
pass,  the  present  ideas  anent  ventila- 
tion must  be  abandoned  as  utterly  fu- 
tile, and  the  need  will  be  felt,  not  of 
letting  a  little  air  in,  but  of  letting; 
waste  products  out. — John  Hartley. 


KEEP    A-GOIN7. 

If  you  strike  a  thorn,  or  rose, 

Keep  a-goin'! 
If  it  hails,  or  if  it  snows, 

Keep  a-goin' ! 
'Tain't  no  use  to  sit  and  whine, 
When  the  fish  ain't  on  your  line; 
Bait  your  hook  an'  keep  a-tryin' — 

Keep  a-goin' ! 

When  the  weather  kills  your  crop,. 

Keep  a-goin' ! 
When  you  tumble  from  the  top, 

Keep  a-goin'  I 
S'pose  you're  out  o'  every  dime, 
Gettin'  broke  ain't  any  crime; 
Tell  the  world  you're  feehn'  fine  — 

Keep  a-goin' ! 

When  it  looks  like  all  is  up, 

Keep  a-goin' ! 
Drain  the  sweetness  from  the  cup, 

Keep  a-goin'  1 
See  the  wild  birds  on  the  wing, 
Hear  the  bells  that  sweetly  ring, 
When  you  feel  like  sighin',  sing  — 

Keep  a-goin' ! 

—  Frank  L.  Stanton 
The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


\m®@mm®i®®m®®f&B8im 


Mrs.  Janet  McKenzie  Hill, 


EDITOR  OF  THE 

BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE, 

AUTHOR  OF 

"SALADS,  SANDWICHES  AND 

CHAFING-DISH  DAINTIES." 


Talks  on  Domestic  Science, 

And  Practical  Demonstrations  in 


Cookery* 


Societies,  Schools  and  Clubs  can  obtain  terms 
for  single  demonstrations,  or  for  courses  of 
six,  by  addressing 

MRS.  JANET  M.  HILL, 


BOSTON,  MASS. 


mwmzm 


He  Enjoys 

His 
Wheatlet  ^ 


It  contains  all  the  elements 
necessary  for  nourishment  of 
Muscle,  Bone  and  Brain.  Most 
easy  of  digestion,  most  pleasant 
to  the  taste,  of  all  Breakfast- 
Foods.     Children  thrive  on 

WHEATLET 

It  does  not  irritate  the   most, 
delicate  stomach. 

Tell  your  grocer  that  it  is  Wheatlet  you  want.. 
Send  your  name  and  address  for  booklet. 

THE  FRANKLIN  MILLS  CO.,  LOCKPORT,  N.  Y. 


m 

11 

HE 


Boston 
Cook- 
ing-Scbool 
Magazine** 

has  been  from  its  first 
number  and  is  now 
printed  by 

cc  ci  c^  cc    ci  ci,  ci  c^.  ci 


mills  $Knigbt£o. 
Primers, «  Design- 
ers,«  engravers,* 
150  Congress  St., 
Boston. «  «  «  «  « 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


g?  <2$3  323  333  »S.W9  3$*  333  333  *$ 


Send  us  two  NEW  yearly  sub- 
scribers at  50  cents  each,  and 
secure  the  BOSTON  COOKING- 
SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  for  your- 
self or  friend  one  year  free. 


'*€  £SS  fc££  MS  ^^S-  *£&  S^S  ^^S-  *&£  ** 


FLEISCHMANNS 

Yeast 


VEGETABLE 
COMPRESSED 


HAS   NO  EQUAL 


••••  THE  •••• 

"KITCHEN  AND  HAND" 

•  •  •  ^U/Vr    •  •  • 


►S  *  ao-rt 


^2   S«< 

co     r-r      » 


■g     5      2, 


TRADE     MARK 


For  removing  Tar,  Pitch,  Cement,  Varnish,  Paint,  Axle 
Grease,  Blacking,  and  all  impurities  from  the  hands,  it  is 
unequaled,  leaving  the  skin  soft,  white  and  smooth. 

Beware  of  Imitations.     For  Sale  by  all  Grocers. 


CHAS.  F.  BATES  &  CO. 

Proprietors  and  Manufacturers, 


Office,  123  Oliver  St., 


Boston. 


FREE  TRIP  TO  EUROPE. 


32  days  abroad  —  all  expenses  paid, 
visiting    Paris,    London   and    Brussels. 

UNEQUALLED   OFFER  OF 

THE 
NATIONAL 
MAGAZINE. 

If  you  secure  300  yearly  subscriptions 
for  "THE  NATIONAL  MAGA- 
ZINE" at  $1  each,  before  July  1,  1900, 
you  earn  the  right  to  join,  without  cost 
to  you,  the  "National  Magazine  Euro- 
pean Party,"  which  sails  from  New 
York,  July  14,  for  a  32  days'  trip  to 
Paris  (visiting  the  Exposition),  London 
and   Brussels. 

SEND  FOR  EXCURSION  BOOKLET 
AND  FULL  PARTICULARS. 

THE  W.  W.  POTTER  CO. 

91  BEDFORD  ST.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 
JOE  M.  CHAPPLE,  Editor  and  Publisher. 


Trial  Subscription,  "The  National  Maga- 
zine," 4  months,  25  cents 


Factory.  Wollaston,  Mass. 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


CENTS 
A  COPY 


A  Summer   House. 

What's  in  a  Smell? 

Tragedy  or  Comedy  —  Which  ? 

Some  Duties  of  a  Waitress. 

A   Rainbow  Bazaar. 

The   Prophet  and  the   Be  an  pot 

Selected  Verse. 

Editorial  Department: 


No.  6. 

P.  G.  Gulbrdnson. 
Helen  B.  Seymour. 
Clara  T.  Clark. 
Catherine  J..  Coolidge. 
Carrie  May  Ash  ton. 
Helen  CampbelL 

Janet  McKenzie  Hill. 


Aft-er-  Breakfast    Chat  —  Economical     and     Seasonable    Menus 
—  In  Reference   to    Men;  Illustrations  of 

.    Original    Dishes)  —  Queries  and    Answers  —  News    v'n 
'ook  Reviews. 

(For  complete  index  see  second  ami fou? 


Published  Bimonthly  by 

THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE, 

Publication  Office;  372  Boylston  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 


Maeazn 


Hfice  a§  »econd-cla*8  matter. 


m 


nun 


IT    COSTS    THE    MOST/ 


— » 


The    ALADDIN    OVEN 

toill  cook  food  in  a  scientific  manner  at  the  cost 
of  four  to  five  cents  a  day. 


n 


THOMAS    WOOD    &    CO., 

Importers  and  Roasters, 
215  State  street,  Boston. 


/  Does  not  heat  the  room,  throw  off  any  odor  of  cooking,  an<i 


IT    DRINKS    THE    BEST! 


does  not  require  watching. 
SEND    FOR    A     CIRCULAR. 


THE  A8BE8T08  PAPER  CO.,  .^."iSS.. 


A4Aa4aA4< 

▼▼www  < 


i  AAAAAAAA  -^a-^-^-aaaa  aaa.aa.aaa  AAAAAAAA 
▼  ▼▼▼▼▼▼▼  wwww  ▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼▼ 


♦n 


Young  Women  wanted  in  every  City  and  Town 
in  the  United  States  to  solicit  Subscriptions  to 

The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


JANET    MCKENZIE    HILL,  EDITOR. 


The  Official  Journal  of  the  Boston-Cooking  School. 

The  Best  and  Most  Practical  Culinary  Magazine  Published. 

Original  Illustrations  of  Actual  Dishes  in  Each  Number. 

We  Pay  a  Liberal  Commission. 

One  woman  recently  sent  us  over  700  subscriptions  in  two  months. 
Others  can  do  as  well. 

Write  for  terms.    Address 

THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE, 

Sample  copy  FREE.  372  BOYLSTON  ST.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


A  A    ,»,,»,AAAAAA-^^-*--^--^--^--^-^AAA.AAAAAAAAAAAAA    AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA    ■^■^^■AAAAAl 

WW  ♦VWWW~~~~~~~~~~~~W~~W~WWWWWWVWWVVV^  WW^T^rWW^rW^ 


Whtnyeu  write  Advertiser s ,  please  mention  Thb  Boston  Cooking-School  IIaoaxips. 


The  Story  of  Vanilla, 


CHAPTER    IX. 


By  Robert  Manton. 


AFTER  the  Mexicans  have  spent  ninety  days 
or  more  in  curing  the  vanilla  bean,  their 
product  is  put  into  "bundles,"  each  weigh- 
ing from  twelve  to  sixteen  ounces.  The  beans 
are  then  pressed  into  shape,  the  ends  of  the 
bundles  rounded  by  turning  the  ends  of  the  beans 
in  at  the  top  of  the  bunch. 

The  beans  of  finest  quality  are  put  into  cans, 
and  the  most  skilled  curers,  who  pride  themselves 
upon  the  excellence  of  their  product,  carry  their 
stock  for  one  or  two  months  before  finally  pack- 
ing it  in  cases.  Four  or  five  "cans"  make  up  a 
"case."    {See  illustration.} 

Strictly  high-grade 
Mexican  beans,  such  as 
are  used  altogether  in 
Burnett's  Extracts,  come 
out  of  the  tropics  in  cedar 
wood  cases.  The  spicy 
odor  of  the  beans  them- 
selves, joined  with  the 
fragrance  of  cedar  wood, 
gives  off  a  perfume  which 
is  most  grateful  to  the 
nostrils.  The  delightful 
odor  lingers  ror  days  in  a 
warehouse  after  the  cases 
have  been  shipped  away. 
The  writer  could  tell, 
when  he  entered  a  store 
room  in  Vera  Cruz, 
whether  a  stock  of  vanilla 
beans  was  carried  then  or 
had  recently  been  stored 
there. 

Vanilla  beans  are  sorted    M 
into   grades.     The    finest   U 
are    packed     as     already    to 
described.        More     than    H 
one  half  of  this  quality  of  f^ 
the  last    year's  crop   was 

bought,  and  is  being  used  by  the  Joseph  Burnett 
Company.  The  inferior  beans,  which  have  been 
improperly  cured,  and  thus  decay  and  mouid, 
are  cut  up  into  pieces  a  half  inch  or  so  in 
length.  In  trade  circles  these  are  known  as  "cuts." 
They  are  packed  in  large  tin  cases,  holding  from 
fifty  to  seventy-five  pounds.  "Cuts"  are  sent  to 
market  and  used  in  the  extracts  which  the  house- 
wife thinks  are  "  cheap."  The  quality  as  well  as  the 
price  is  low.  These  cuts  sell  for  about  one  third 
the  price  of  the  first  class  bean.  Quality  determines 
price  in  everything. 


ill!!; 


In  future  issues  of  this  magazine  the  results  of 
man's  futile  attempts  to  cultivate  the  vanilla  plant 
in  other  parts  of  the  world  will  be  described,  and 
also  the  various  devices  and  artifices  employed  in 
adulteration.  Little  does  the  housewife  realize 
what  injurious  and  poisonous  mixtures  are  sold 
daily  over  the  counters  of  stores  and  labelled 
•'  Vanilla  Extract  "  in  place  of  Burnett's.  They  are 
no  more  the  extract  of  the  fragrant  Mexican 
bean  than  water  colored  with  aniline  is  wine. 

On  various  occasions  Boards  of  Health  have 
submitted  cheap  "Vanilla"  extracts  to  the  writer 
with  requests  that  he 
analyze  them.  Analyza- 
tion  is  simply  impossible. 
Goodness  only  knows 
what  many  are  made  of. 
He  has  found  Balsam  of 
Peru,  a  watery  decoction 
of  the  tonka,  with  pos- 
sibly a  little  inferior 
vanilla  in  it,  the  cost  of 
which  would  be  perhaps 
$2.00  a  gallon.  Fully  70% 
of  the  vanilla  extract  sold 
in  the  American  market 
to-day  is  made  from  cuts, 
cheap  or  wild  vanilla, 
strengthened  and  doc- 
tored by  Vanillin,  or  arti- 
ficial vanilla,  made  from 
clove  stems  or  coal  tar, 
colored  and  sweetened. 
The  amount  of  rubbish 
which  is  thus  bottled  up 
and  made  attractive  by  a 
gaudy  label,  is  amazing. 
The  extract  which  the 
unsuspecting  housewife 
buys  cheap,  really  yields 
the  maker  anywhere 
from  100  to  50  per  cent,  profit.  Unscrupulous 
men  pile  up  wealth  at  the  expense  of  the  public 
health. 

The  full  deliciousness,  flavor,  and  fragrance  of 
the  Mexican  Vanilla  bean  are  brought  out  only  in 
the  extracts  made  by  the  Joseph  Burnett  Company, 
of  Boston,  Mass.  Every  first-class  grocer  places 
them  above  all  others,  and  makes  comparisons  by 
them.  It  is  really  a  matter  of  pride  to  a  manufac- 
turer to  have  it  said  of  his  extract  that  it  is  "next 
below  Burnett's." 

(To  be  continued.) 


f'lllii'lffli! 


(Coptright  Protected  by  Lyman  L>.  Morse.) 

When  you  w.ite  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Swan's  Down. 
Baking  Powder 


4ipM<^P0M 


f 


Q, 


STRICTLY  PUK5 


gtilVt)^ 


London  Mixture 


Breakfast  Tea. 


Veuve 
Chaffard 

PURE 

Olive  Oil. 

IN    HONEST    BOTTLES. 


S.  S.  Pierce  Co. 

BOSTON.  BROOKLINE. 

When  you  write  Advertisers^  please  mention 


COMPLETE    INDEX. 

PAGE 

After-Breakfast  Chat 281 

A  Rainbow  Bazaar 273 

A  Summer  House 259 

Editorials 278 

In  Reference  to  Economical  Menus    .     .  285 

Menus,  Economical,  for  April    ....  283 

Menus,  Seasonable,  for  Easter  Week      .  284 

Selected  Verse 277 

Some  Duties  of  a  Waitress 270 

The  Prophet  and  Beanpot 274 

Tragedy  or  Comedy — Which?      .     .     .  265 

What's  in  a  Smell  ? 262 

Queries  and  Answers:  — 

Almond  Wafers 308 

Alum  and  Ammonia  in  Baking-Powder,  307 

Baked  Orange  Souffle  Pudding       .     .  307 

Bread  or  Pastry  Flour 303 

Broiled  Fillets  of  Beef 302 

Broiled  Kidneys 300 

Brownies 3C8 

Cheese  Puffs 306 

Claret  Sauce 301 

Cocoanut  Cake 308 

Coffee  Frappe       305 

Coffee  Rolls  from  Brioche i     ....  305 

Cracking  of  Doughnuts  in  Frying  .     .  306 

Crescent  Rolls 304 

Easter  Salad 308 

Economical  Chicken  Salad     ....  303 
Farmers'  Bulletins  on  Composition  of 

Food 299 

German  Coffee  Cake 306 

Ginger  Parfait 302 

Glazed  Sweeetbread,  Puree  of  Peas    ,  302 

High-Tea  Lunch  Party 304 

Kidney  Stew 300 

Kidney-and-Mushroom  Saute      .     .     .  300 

Kidney,  Vegetables  Served  with      .     .  300 
Menus,   Luncheon,  in    May,   at  Si. 00 

per  plate 301 

Menus,  Luncheon,  for  Schoolgirls  .     .  303 

Menus,  High-Tea 304 

Menus,    Supper,    Voung    Women,    in 

April 307 

Milk  Jelly 306 

Moulded  Halibut 301 

Orange  Sections  Moulded  in  Jelly       .  308 

Oyster  Loaf 300 

Peanuts,  Sugared 300 

Pone 305 

Potato  Salad,  Cause  of  Bitter  Taste  .  306 

Punch,  Maraschino 303 

Rye  Meal  or  Flour  in  Boston  Brown- 
bread    301 

(Continued  over.) 
The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


m 


db, 


/ 


\£\xss  Jolossorr). 

Pure  Ivory ,  (so  painters  knew,) 
Brought  out  the  beauties,  when  they  drew 
The  fine-arched  brow  and  dainty  dress 
That  marked  the  style  of  loveliness 
"Which  seems  so  quaint  to  me  and  you. 


Now,  altered  fashions  quite  eschew 
The  empire  waist  and  high-heeled  shoe ; 
Yet  modern  beauties  need,  no  less, 

Pure  Ivory* 


Any  person  wishing  an  enlarged  copy  of  this  picture  may  mail  to  us 

io  Ivory  Soap  Wrappers,  on  receipt  of  which  we  will  send  a  copy  (without  printing) 

on  enamel  plate  paper,  14  x  17  inches,  a  suitable  size  for  framing. 

THE  PROCTER  i  GAMBLE  CO.  CINCINNATI 


For  May,  whose  skin  is  like  the  hue 

Of  orchard  sprays  when  Spring  steals  through 

Her  hand,  and  hair,  and  summer  dress 

So  soft,  their  touch  seems  a  caress  — 

Finds  Ivory  her  dependence,  too  — 

Pure  Ivory  Soap. 

IT  FLOATS. 


AN    EASTKR    SALAD. 

Remove  the  coarse  stems  from  a  bunch  of  watercress ; 
wash,  dry,  and  chill  the  leaves.  When  ready  to  serve,  dress 
with  oil,  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice  in  the  order  named. 
Turn  on  to  a  serving-dish.  Surround  with  a  border  of  fresh 
nasturtium  leaves  and  blossoms  and  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in 
quarters  or  slices. 


THE 


Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


Vol.  IV. 


APRIL  AND  MAY,   1900. 


No.  6. 


A  SUMMER  HOUSE. 
By  P.  G.  Gulbraxson. 


An  abandoned  farm,  or  one  worn 
out  and  soon  to  be  given  up  for  lack 
of  brawn  to  wake  its  old-time  energy, 
has  been  the  subject  of  many  a  melan- 
choly chapter.  But  a  partial  solution 
of  the  problem  lies  in  the  availability 
of  many  of  these  places  for  a  summer 
home.  While  some  are  uninviting,  be- 
cause of  their  isolation  and  uninterest- 
ing surroundings,  theie  are  many  within 
comfortable  reach  of  the  railroad  which 
are  admirably  adapted  for  a  summer's 
outing,  commanding  fine  views  and 
having  acreage  enough  to  satisfy  the 
land-hunger  of  the  town-dweller. 

Although  our  subject  is  primarily 
the  building  of  a  summer  house,  it 
would  be  well  to  bear  in  mind  a  time 
that  comes  in  almost  all  lives,  when 
just  such  a  place  would  make  a  wel- 
come home  ;  and  it  might  be  that  some 
ailing  member  of  the  family  has  re- 
ceived so  much  benefit  from  the  sum- 
mer sojourn  that  it  would  be  advisable 
to  remain  for  the  winter.  Our  house 
should,  therefore,  be  so  contrived  as  to 
be  comfortable  in  the  cold  season. 
But,  even  ignoring  these. contingencies, 
we  should,  as  we  have  opportunity, 
make  such  gradual  improvements,  that 
in   the   course    of    years   the  soil  may 


regain,  as  much  as  possible,  its  life- 
sustaining  character.  We  can  keep  the 
orchard  by  pruning  and  mulching,  by 
removing  trees  past  their  usefulness 
and  setting  out  new  ones,  not  neglect- 
ing the  smaller  fruits.  A  field  can  be 
greatly  enriched  by  sowing  it  heavily 
to  rye  and  clover,  and  ploughing  the 
crop  under. 

Such  improvements  will  pay  in  time, 
for  the  increasing  volume  of  vacation 
travel  will  certainly  cause  an  apprecia- 
tion of  values.  There  is  always  some 
neighbor  who  will  undertake  to  look 
after  these  things  for  us.  Certainly,  if 
we  can  afford  to  own  a  place  just  for  the 
summer's  outing,  we  can  afford  to  go  a 
little  further  and  let  our  neighbor  have 
the  use  of  parts  of  the  farm  in  exchange 
for  these  services,  and  for  having  an 
eye  to  the  buildings  when  we  have  left 
them  for  the  winter. 

We  will  choose  this  place  which 
slopes  towards  the  south  in  a  general 
way,  and  in  a  spot  south  of  the  road. 
Stake  out  our  house  so  that  the  side 
having  the  principal  rooms  shall  face 
the  southwest.  Most  of  the  rooms 
will  thus  have  the  benefit  of  the  pre- 
vailing winds,  and  we  shall  not  be 
troubled  very  much   by  dust  from  the 


260 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


highway.  If  we  are  going  to  have  a 
barn,  we  must  take  care  to  place  that 
where  it  will  give  the  least  offence. 

The  slope  at  the  spot  chosen  for  the 
house  is  such  that  the  sunny  front  of 
the  cellar  is  out  of  ground,  which  is  a 
great  convenience  for  the  laundry  and 
for  wheeling  out  rubbish. 

To  ensure  a  dry  cellar,  we  will  lay 
trenches  for  the  walls,  to  slope  so  that 
the  water  may  be  carried  away  to  dry 
wells.     Outside  the  walls  there  will  be 


there  can  be  plenty  of  windows,  so 
getting  the  sunshine  into  the  cellar, 
where  it  is  needed  as  much  as  any- 
where. 

The  main  entrance  to  the  first  floor 
is  toward  the  highway.  We  enter  a 
hall  eight  feet  wide,  having  a  fireplace 
opposite  the  door ;  a  wide  opening 
gives  access  to  the  room  which  occu- 
pies the  east  end  of  the  house,  —  a 
combined  dining  and  living  room. 
The  north  end   is  separated  from  the 


an  eight-inch  space,  to  be  filled  with 
small  stones  and  coarse  gravel,  through 
which  water  can  soak  to  the  trenches. 
The  north  wall  should  be  far  enough 
out  of  ground  to  allow  us  to  grade  with 
a  slight  fall  from  the  middle  toward 
either  end,  and  to  give  a  chance  for 
windows. 

The  south  cellar  wall,  being  out  of 
ground,  can  be  built  of  wood  and 
treated  like  the  rest  of  the  frame ;  but 
we  must  build  a  foundation  going  be- 
low the  reach   of   frost.      In   this  wall 


main  part  by  an  open  screen  formed 
by  panels  at  either  side,  about  two  feet 
and  nine  inches  wide  by  four  feet  high  ; 
at  the  entrance  there  are  two  plain 
turned  columns  reaching  to  a  beam 
which  runs  across  the  ceiling.  This 
gives  us  a  space  seven  feet  and  a  half 
by  thirteen  ;  on  one  side  a  place  for  a 
couch,  with  some  bookshelves  over  it, 
and  on  the  other  an  inside  wall  for  the 
piano.  The  disposition  of  other  furni- 
ture is  shown  on  the  plan. 

The  hall  walls  should  be  covered  in 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


26l 


warm  tones,  —  either  plain  or  figured 
paper,  or  painted,  —  and  for  a  stair 
curtain  one  of  the  scenic  cotton  tapes- 


harmonizing  tones.  A  picture  mould- 
ing close  to  a  cream-tinted  ceiling  will 
give  a  good  finish  here  as  in  the  hall. 


tries    would    be    an    inexpensive    and 
agreeable  feature. 

The  most  satisfactory  color  for  the 
walls  of  the  main  room  is  a  neutral 
green,  for  this  makes  the  best  back- 
ground for  pictures  and  furniture.     If 


As  to  the  woodwork,  white  subdued 
with  some  warm  color  is  most  pleasing  ; 
but  this  is  open  to  the  objection  that  it 
shows  soiling  so  quickly.  The  com- 
mon natural  finish  is  inoffensive,  if  the 
wood  is  toned  with  stain,  given  a  dull 


BUREAU 

CLOSET 

LOUNGE 
T  •  TABLE 
VY-  WASH  STAND 


SECOND-FLOOR- 


we  use  in  the  larger  portion  a  paper  of 
narrow  vertical  stripes  of  different 
shades,  we  can  get  an  agreeable  con- 
trast in  the  retired  part  back  of  the 
screen   by  using  a   figured   pattern  of 


finish,  and  not    left  with  the  distress- 
ing glare  of  shellac  or  varnish. 

The  south  side  of  the  main  room 
opens  on  a  piazza,  from  which  the 
ground  is  reached  by  a  staircase.     At 


262 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


the  end  of  the  house  is  the  shed,  which 
may  be  divided  or  not,  as  may  be 
deemed  convenient. 

On  the  second  floor  we  get  three 
bedrooms,  a  bathroom,  and  plenty  of 
closets ;  the  attic  will  provide  two  more 
bedrooms  and  storage.  Here  we  also 
place  the  water  tank,  supplied  by  the 
force  pump  in  the  cellar  or  kitchen. 
A  better  solution  of  the  problem  of 
water  supply  would  be  to  find  a  good 
spring  on  the  hill,  whence  water  could 
be  brought  to  the  house. 

In  case  of  a  future  winter  occupancy, 
heating  apparatus  can  be  readily  in- 
stalled ;  the  chimney  being  large  enough 
to  supply  the  needed  flues. 

A  small  fireplace  is  shown  in  the 
kitchen  chamber.  If  heat  should  be 
wanted  in  the  living-room,  an  earthern 
pipe  can  be  run  to  the  chimney,  and 
fitted  with  a  thimble.  In  the  room 
above  a  similar  pipe  can  be  run  near 
the  ceiling.     We  have  thus  three  more 


chances  for  open  fires,  by  using  a  Frank- 
lin stove  with  andirons  for  wood,  or  a 
basket  grate  for  coal. 

The  best  setting  of  the  house  is 
grass,  and  there  is  no  need  of  any 
special  building  of  gravel  roads  or 
walks ;  there  will  be  fewer  weeds  to 
fight,  and  no  sandy  areas  to  reflect 
the  sun's  heat  and  glare.  The  soil  of 
a  place  like  this  we  have  in  mind  is 
probably  such  that  it  would  take  a 
great  deal  of  wheeled  traffic  to  mark  it 
seriously. 

North  of  the  house,  we  would  do 
well  to  set  out  trees  to  break  the  force 
of  the  northerly  winds,  so  disposed 
that,  while  calculated  to  shelter  the 
building,  there  would  still  be  views 
of  the  road  from  the  living-room  win- 
dow. These  heights  of  stories  are  sug- 
gested :  cellar,  seven  and  one-half 
feet  clear ;  first  and  second  stories, 
eight  and  one-half  feet  each  ;  the  attic, 
eight  feet. 


WHAT'S  IN  A  SMELL? 

By  Helen  B.  Seymour. 


"  Please  excuse  my  little  girl,"  said 
a  mother,  as  her  four-year-old  began 
smelling  of  a  lady's  fur  cape.  —  "Here, 
Mary,"  she  added  to  the  nurse-girl, 
"  take  Trotsy  out  for  her  walk.  Good- 
bye, darling ! " 

Turning  to  her  caller  she  resumed, 
"  I  do  not  know  where  that  child  got 
such  a  passion  for  smelling  things. 
She  tests  her  food  by  that  sense  first, 
and  sniffs,  as  you  see,  at  the  clothes 
people  wear.  One  dress  I  have  she 
calls  my  '  sugar  dress,'  because  it  smells 
sweet." 


"  What  a  child,  but  how  interesting ! 
Were  you  not  morbidly  sensitive  as 
she  is  about  odors  before  she  came  ? 
Heredity  and  environment  are  the  two 
keys  I  use  to  explain  the  vagaries  of 
children." 

"Well"  (laughing),  "I  believe  I 
have  been  considered  a  crank  on 
smells  since  childhood.  Trotsy's  fa- 
ther, too,  hates  certain  odors  like  sins. 
He  says  he  would  rather  have  every 
garment  he  owns  eaten  than  to  have 
the  smell  his  sister  shakes  out  of  her 
carefully-put-away  clothes  every  season. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


265 


He  knows  Shakespeare  scented  moth- 
balls, when  he  made  Falstaff  speak  of 
'the  rankest  compound  of  villainous 
smells  that  ever  offended  nostril.' 
Camphor  balls  he  despises,  likewise; 
but,  as  I  have  both  a  cedar  closet  and 
a  cedar  chest,  I  never  use  either." 

"  Exactly  as  I  suspected,"  said  the 
guest;  "Trotsy  comes  honestly  by  her 
taste  or  distaste  for  odors.  And  does 
your  husband  dislike  smells  from  cook- 
ing as  well  ?  " 

"  Yes :  so  we  have  the  patent  hood 
over  the  range,  warranted  to  catch  all 
odors,  patent  steamers,  and  the  cook 
throws  salt  over  the  coals  to  stop  the 
blaze  when  broiling.  The  window  is 
always  down  in  the  kitchen,  and  open 
a  crack  in  the  butler's  pantry,  lest  a 
stray  odor  might  penetrate  the  dining- 
room." 

"  Very  good  !  Your  husband  evi- 
dently prefers  to  take  his  nourishment 
in  other  ways  than  by  his  olfactory 
nerves.  For  myself,  I  like  a  good 
whiff  of  dinner  round  a  corner  as  well 
as  when  set  before  me." 

"  Well,"  was  the  reply,  "  I  have  no 
objection  to  odors  coming  cornerwise 
or  otherwise,  provided  they  are  agree- 
able ;  but  I  do  not  care  to  know  when 
my  neighbors  are  having  beefsteak  and 
onions,  or  doughnuts,  or  even  cro- 
quettes." 

"  Yes,  smells  do  tell  tales,  and  act 
as  advertising  mediums.  Every  sub- 
urban train  at  night  carries  coffee  and 
cheese  flavors.  One  detects  oysters, 
fish,  and  apples,  too.  And,  last  week, 
I  got  an  ancient,  if  not  honorable, 
smell  as  I  passed  a  little  man  who  had 
a  big  basket  beside  him  at  the  end  of 
the  car." 

"  Perhaps  he  had  a  game  dinner  in 
prospect,  or  had  been  indulging  in  a 
bargain  chicken." 


"  Whatever  he  had,  it  made  me  think 
of  the  odor  of  my  laundry,  which  was 
done  by  a  private  washerlady.  The 
clothes  were  beautifully  clean,  and 
pressed  to  perfection  —  but  the  smell! 
Rank  tobacco,  cabbage,  onions,  tur- 
nips and  stew,  all  mingled,  and  every 
fibre  saturated  with  the  compound.. 
Extra  airing,  camphor,  and  even  co- 
logne, would  not  make  them  tolerable ; 
so  I  had  to  send  them  elsewhere." 

"  You  did  have  an  experience  !  And 
what  a  delicious  odor  clothes  have 
when  hung  out  in  the  country,  where 
there  is  no  dust,  but  wind  to  dry  and 
sun  to  bleach  !" 

"  I  do  not  care  where  mine  are  dried, 
if  they  only  come  home  odorless.  And 
in  society,  I  really  prefer  no  smell  what- 
ever, to  the  fine  perfume  so  many  ladies 
indulge  in." 

"  Do  you  really  ?  I  confess  I  like  a 
high-priced  odor, —  white  rose  or  deli- 
cate violet." 

"  Why  don't  you  add,  '  sniffed  from 
silver  and  cut  glass  '  ?  I  have  heard 
of  being  aristocratic  to  the  tip  of  one's 
nose." 

"  Nonsense  !  Just  think  how  much 
pleasure  people  get  from  flowers." 

"  Yes,  certain  flowers.  But  the 
strong-scented  ones  should  never  be 
used  indoors.  I  have  been  in  churches 
and  at  funerals,  when  I  felt  drugged 
with  the  perfume  of  the  lilies,  tube- 
roses, hyacinths,  and  other  heavily 
scented  blossoms." 

"  I  know,"  replied  the  hostess ;  "  but, 
all  the  same,  I  always  liked  the  giant 
who  lived  at  the  top  of  Jack's  bean- 
stalk, because  he  detected  nationality 
when  he  reeled  off  his  '  Fee,  fie,  foh, 
fum,  I  smell  the  blood  of  a  British- 
man  ; '  and  I  am  sure  one  can  read  char- 
acter with  the  nose  quicker  than  any 
other  way." 


264 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


11  Perhaps.  Still,  I  think  I  would 
rather  not  have  that  sense  interviewed 
in  choosing  a  servant,  or  adding  a  new 
acquaintance  to  my  calling  list,  not 
even  if  the  latter  is  redolent  of  attar- 
of- roses  most  costly." 

"  You  may  laugh  if  you  choose,  but 
you  will  concede  that  a  keen  sense  of 
smell  is  indispensable  to  the  best  house- 
keeping, and  that  health  has  no  more 
vigilant  outlook  committee  than  a  quick 
appreciation  of  malodorous  evils."' 

"Yes,  I  suppose  so;  but  I  would 
rather  pay  a  plumber  for  sniffing  round 
a  gas  or  sewer  pipe  after  a  leak  than 
to  go  on  a  chase  for  it  myself." 

"  There  are  other  smells  beside  the 
two  you  mention,  which  must  be  hunted 
down.  A  dead  mouse  speaks  for  it- 
self, as  manifestly  as  '  the  essence 
peddler,'  politely  so  called  by  country 
people.  But  there  are  fleeting,  evan- 
escent, dangerous  odors  every  house- 
keeper must  face  and  frown  at." 

"  For  instance?  " 

"  For  instance  :  I  detected  a  smell 
in  my  storeroom.  The  cook  confessed 
she  knew  it  was  there.  A  thorough 
search  was  instituted.  After  a  day  of 
cleaning  we  found  the  '  smell,' — a  half 
yeastcake.  in  a  can  in  which  bits  of 
string  were  kept.  Another  time  we 
hunted  and  hunted  for  a  smell,  not 
unlike  that  of  the  ripened  yeastcake. 
After  a  long  time  we  found  it  in  a  cup 
of  soup  stock  the  cook  had  set  aside 
in  a  disused  tureen.  But  the  most 
elaborate  and  expensive  experience  we 
ever  had  was  in  Trotsy's  room." 

"  Do  tell  me  about  it !  I  should 
have  thought  the  dear  would  have  fol- 
lowed her  little  nose  straight  to  it." 

11  No  laughing,  please.  It  might 
have  ended  in  diphtheria,  scarlet  fever, 
or  typhoid.     All  come  from  bad  odors, 


you  know.  This  was  not  one  of  the 
loud  smells  anybody  can  detect,  but  a 
mysterious,  elusive  odor." 

"  And  all  the  more  dangerous,  I  sup- 
pose, because  it  worked  on  the  imagin- 
ation." 

"  Yes,  it  was  not  a  trifling  matter. 
Disinfectants  did  not  destroy  it,  so  I 
declared  it  was  war  to  the  end.  I  had 
changed  baby's  cot  to  the  nursery  at 
once.  Next  I  sent  for  a  plumber,  who 
tore  up  the  floor,  tested  all  the  pipes, 
but  could  find  no  leak.  He  confessed 
he  got  an  odor  occasionally,  but  not 
all  the  time.  He  left,  and  we  fancied 
the  smell  had  gone  ;  but  it  was  detected 
next  day,  stronger  than  ever.  Finally, 
I  closed  the  room  for  a  time.  Then  I 
planned  a  day's  search  for  the  evil,  if 
it  was  there.  It  was  '  loud '  as  I  en- 
tered. At  once  I  spied  a  beautifully 
decorated  Easter  egg,  which  had  been 
sent  Trotsy.  I  drew  near,  and  the 
smell  met  me  fair  and  square,  and 
strong.  The  friend  who  sent  it  had 
boiled  the  egg  instead  of  blowing  it  out 
before  painting,  and  —  " 

"  Don't  describe  it.  I  can  imagine 
the  rest.  That  was  the  reason  you 
put  down  a  hardwood  floor,  and  pa- 
pered and  painted  just  before  you  went 
to  the  shore  ?  " 

"Yes:  and  we  thought  the  money 
well  spent  in  honor  of  the  victory. 
And  I  am  resolved  never  to  give  up 
in  chasing  down  a  smell." 

The  next  week  the  caller  sent  her 
friend  a  bunch  of  beautiful  violets  in 
which  was  her  card,  having  on  it  this 
stanza  :  — 

"  To  be  resigned  when  ills  betide, 
Patient,  when  favors  are  denied, 
And  pleased  with  favors  given, — 

This  is  wisdom's  part ; 

This  is  the  incense  of  the  heart, 
Whose  fragrance  smells  to  heaven.'* 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


265 


TRAGEDY  OR  COMEDY  —  WHICH  ? 

By  Clara  T.  Clark. 


When,  in  the  course  of  events,  it  be- 
came positively  necessary  for  our  fam- 
ily to  pay  the  great  debt  to  humanity 
and  entertain,  the  entire  responsibility 
always  and  inevitably  devolved  upon 
my  sister  Molly  and  me  (or  —  let  me 
whisper  it —  it  even  devolved  upon 
poor  Molly  alone,  if  I  could  not  be 
made  to  feel,  after  much  exhortation 
and  expostulation,  the  awful,  crushing 
weight  of  the  social  burden. —  How- 
ever, I  helped  this  time). 

And  all  this  was  so,  as  our  mother, 
the  rightful  head  of  the  house,  being 
an  invalid,  was  unable  to  take  any  part 
whatsoever  in  the  great  whirligig  of 
"  wining  and  dining ;  "  while  father  and 
the  "boys"  (our  brothers),  like  all 
fathers  and  brothers,  were,  as  usual, 
perfectly  useless  as  social  factors. 

Almost  simultaneously  with  the  trag- 
edy (or  comedy)  I  am  about  to  relate, 
v/e  had  moved  into  our  new  house, 
—  a  tiny  modern  bijou  of  a  home 
that  father  had  built  (somewhat  in  the 
suburbs  of  the  city)  and  had  declared 
sufficient  and  quite  large  enough  for 
his  small  family.  And  scarcely  were 
we  in  it  before  Molly  proposed  (Molly 
was  always  proposing  !  )  that  we  should 
send  out  cards  for  a  certain  number  of 
at-home  days  —  say,  three  days  in  the 
coming  February. 

Partly  by  way  of  a  house-warming 
(my  sister  graciously  explained,  as 
it  was  all  new  to  me),  and  partly  for 
the  more  practical  purpose  of  making 
known  our  new  abiding-place  to  all 
our  acquaintances,  we  decided  to  have 
three    days    instead    of   one,   better   to 


accommodate  our  friends  in  the  small 
house. 

We  had  never  entertained  in  precisely 
this  way  before  (nor  had  anyone  else 
on  earth  —  then),  and,  when  we  sent 
out  the  cards,  we  (or  Molly,  I  supposed) 
simply  intended  them  to  stand  for  — 
the  most  natural  thing  in  the  world — 
a  few  days  of  call-receiving  after  the 
(and  our)  usual  fashion, —  days  severely 
simple  and  chastely  elegant. 

But,  when  the  deed  was  done  and  the 
cards  were  out  and  the  time  came  to 
take  closer  note  of  the  situation,  I  for 
one,  with  the  nervous  uncertainty  of 
an  innovator,  felt  it  was  going  to  be 
different. 

Something  had  to  be  done.  I  took 
pencil  and  paper.  In  the  first  place, 
we  had  sent  cards  to  just  586  people, 
who  were  to  come  to  see  us  in  just 
three  days  (3  into  586  is  195 £),  —  195! 
persons  at  least  —  nearly  200  —  for 
each  of  our  three  Mondays,  even  if  our 
friends  should  be  thoughtful  enough 
to  divide  themselves  up  with  any  such 
mathematical  reckoning.  And  if  they 
all  came  !  But  undoubtedly  they  would 
all  come  ;  for  there  was  no  grippe,  and 
then,  everybody  always  came  to  us  (even 
/thought,  proudly). 

"  Molly,"  said  I,  after  the  enormity 
of  our  prospective  tea-giving  had  thus 
sunk  into  my  mind  and  been  partly 
digested  —  "Molly,  we  are  to  have 
three  crowded  teas  in  this  tiny  bandbox 
of  a  house,  instead  of  one  crowded  tea, 
—  just  the  thing  you  wanted  to  avoid." 

"I  know  it,  Margaret"  (so  Molly 
had  been   pondering  on  it  too).      "  I 


266 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


have  calculated  the  list "  (just  what  I 
had  done)  ;  "  and,  what's  more,  I  saw 
Emily  this  morning  "  (now,  Emily  was 
that  pleasing  adjunct  of  every  family, — 
the  mirror  that  showed  us  which  way 
our  world  was  wagging).  "Emily  was 
all  smiles,  and  said  they  were  all 
coming — 'So  glad,'  'So  kind  of  us,' 
etc.,  etc.,  etc.,  just  as  thought  we  were 
giving  a  bal  masque  or  a  vaudeville 
soiree,  for  which  she  and  everyone 
were  deeply  grateful." 

"  What  do  they  expect?" 

"Oh,  I'm  sure  I  don't  know. —  But 
I  know  one  thing;  I  know  one  part. 
We  must  live  up  to  some  of  the  evident 
expectations,  and  have  music,  and 
caterers,  and  decorators,  on  all  three 
Mondays." 

"  Yes,"  I  gasped,  "  I  suppose  we 
must.  The  idea  now  does  seem  absurd 
of  Mary  passing  just  chocolate  and 
ladyfingers,  as  usual,  to  two  hundred 
people,  even  if  she  could  do  it.  I 
suppose  John  can  attend  to  the  door." 

"  Oh,  no  :  John  will  be  needed  for 
too  many  other  things,  and  especially  to 
keep  his  eye  on  the  valuables  —  always 
quite  necessary  with  so  many  strange 
servants  in  the  house." 

"Well  —  so  be  it,"  said  I,  after 
which  form  of  acquiescence  —  for  I  was 
inwardly  rebellious  —  I  sat  silent  for  an 
hour,  wandering  what  kind  of  an  affair 

—  or  affairs  —  we  were  plunging  into 

—  or  that  Molly  had  plunged  us  into. 
Of  course  we  ordered  everything, — 

the  music,  the  butler,  the  caterers,  and 
decorators.  What  women  would  fail 
to  rise  to  such  an  occasion  ? 

So  when  our  first  Monday  came  our 
house  was  a  bower  of  green  and  flower- 
ing things ;  the  new  butler,  a  Chester- 
field working  for  a  living;  the  music,  a 
perfect  concord  of  sweet  sounds,  gauged 


exactly  to  the  size  of  the  house  ;  while 
our  John  and  Mary,  in  their  best,  were 
trying,  almost  in  vain,  to  remember  their 
many,  many  instructions.  And  Molly 
and  I  stood  robed  in  gorgeous  new 
gowns  ordered  expressly  for  the  occa- 
sion —  or  occasions. 

At  three  o'clock  everything  was 
ready,  down  to  the  last  glove-button. 
My  sister  had  even  arranged  the  exact 
spots  in  the  drawing-room  where  we  were 
to  stand  to  receive, —  she  herself  at  one 
side  of  the  large  Daghestan  rug,  though 
not  too  near  the  green  divan,  and  I,  a 
few  paces  off,  in  the  very  centre  of  the 
small  prayer-rug.  (As  we  were  to  re- 
ceive alone,  things  could  be  arranged 
thus  minutely.) 

It  was  somewhat  after  three  when 
the  "  party  began,"  as  the  children  say, 
with  little  Miss  Gray. 

"  She  is  shy  and  has  come  early  to 
avoid  the  crowd,"  thought  1,  as  Molly 
greeted  the  guest  with  all  ceremony. 
(Sooth !  she  must  have  awed  the  timid 
little  visitor,  as  she  stood  in  all  her 
gracious  gorgeousness  on  the  foreor- 
dained Daghestan.  With  the  proximity 
of  the  green  divan,  truly  Molly  was  near 
kin  to  the  Shah  of  Persia,  about  to  be 
seated  on  the  Peacock  Throne.) 

Miss  Gray  stayed  and  stayed,  and 
we  talked  and  talked  (there  was  noth- 
ing to  interrupt ;  it  was  undoubtedly  not 
time  for  the  crush).  And,  when  she 
would  go,  Molly  herself  escorted  her 
to  the  dining-room,  notwithstanding 
our  cast-iron  rule  that  nothing  that 
afternoon,  be  it  a  bomb  or  an  earth- 
quake, should  move  us  from  our  re- 
spective positions. 

But  the  fair  hostess  was  back  in  an 
instant,  resumed  her  position,  and  once 
more  was  ready  for  the  reception  which 
must  now  soon  begin  in  earnest. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


267 


And  sure  enough !  (Of  course ! 
Why  had  I  doubted?)  Immediately 
another  visitor  is  announced,  and 
another,  and  another.  The  crush  is 
almost  upon  us  !  The  "  party  "  is  im- 
minent !  The  two  hundred  are  not 
many  miles  away ! 

These  visitors  understand  the  affair 
perfectly,  and  everything  works  well. 
They  chat  a  moment  with  each  of  us  ; 
(the  weather,  the  new  house,  "  How  is 
your  mother  ?"  "  How  is  your  father?" 
"How  is  your  great-grandmother?" 
and  "  How  are  your  brothers?")  and 
then,  in  going,  are  ushered  into  the 
dining-room,  and  once  more  our  draw- 
ing-room is  empty. 

In  the  pause,  I  cross  to  Molly,  on 
the  Daghestan,  and  felicitate  her  on 
the  receiving  arrangements  (as  success 
is  crowning  her  efforts  I  am  sure  of  my 
sister's  ability). 

I  am  quite  out  of  breath  with  enthu- 
siasm—  but  I  have  time  to  recover. 
(Why  couldn't  the  two  hundred  come  at 
once  and  not  string  along  this  way  !) 

Well !  —  Molly  and  I  wait  in  solemn 
state  —  and  solitude  — in  the  bedecked 
drawing-room.  I  have  many  further 
opportunities  —  to  chat  with  Molly.  I 
grow  weary  of  the  everlasting  wail  of 
that  string-band  and  weary  of  the 
throng  of  useless  menials;  for  (you  have 
guessed  it)  the  crush  never  came.  The 
buzz,  the  warmth  of  an  afternoon  tea 
at  its  height  were  not  for  us  that  day. 

Five  more  people  only  called  on  us 
that  afternoon,  with  long  waits  between 
their  calls ;  so  when  the  last  one  had 
gone  it  was  very  late. 

And  in  the  evening, —  though  no  for- 
mal visitors  could  be  reasonably  ex- 
pected, as  the  hours  were  over  at  six, 
—  still,  as  a  dozen  of  our  intimates 
had   signified   their  intention  of  "  run- 


ning in  "  one  of  the  evenings,  we  joyfully 
extended  the  "day,"  that  they  might 
see  the  affair  in  all  its  glory. 

But  none  of  them  came — not  a  soul, 
not  one  living,  breathing  soul  —  all 
that  evening.  The  front-door  bell  rang 
not.  The  front-door  steps  were  un- 
pressed  by  eager,  hurrying  feet. 

At  ten  o'clock,  after  an  indigestible 
supper  of  salads  and  pates  and  creams 
and  ices,  et  cetera,  et  cetera  (you  know 
that  me?ni),  Molly  and  I  retreated  from 
the  field,  renounced  the  fight,  and  fled. 

We  had  just  ten  calls  out  of  a  certain 
195 1  and  a  possible  586. 

Mountains  of  refreshments,  a  house- 
ful of  servants,  expensive  decorations, 
and  more  expensive  at-home  gowns  — 
and  ten  people  to  see  it  all !  And  — 
what  was  worse  —  two  more  of  these 
agonies  of  days  and  no  precedent  to  go 
by! 

'*  We'll  wear  the  same  gowns,  of 
course,  next  time,  Margaret,"  said 
Molly  to  me,  as  we  counted  our  ten 
scalps  over  the  dressing-room  fire.  "  I 
don't  believe  people  have  waked  up  to 
our  days  yet." 

"  I  don't  believe  they  have  !  " 

"  Well,  it's  no  wonder,  so  long  since 
we've  entertained ; —  and  then,  say  what 
you  will,  this  house  is  a  little  out  of  the 
way.  It'll  take  them  at  least  a  week  to 
wake  up  to  it  —  to  rise  to  the  occt!  ion. 
You'll  see,  these  ten  will  be  the  leaven ." 

"  Ten  can't  be  'leven,"  I  feebly 
sallied.  "  So  next  time  you  think 
there'll  be  a  crowd." 

"I'm  sure  of  it." 

"  How  about  ordering?  " 

"  Oh,  I  think  we  better  do  just  about 
the  same.     It's  only  once  in  a  lifetime." 

"In  our  lifetime,  you  mean  —  or, 
rather,  in  mine.  Catch  me  doing  any- 
thing quite  so  ridiculous  again ! " 


268 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


"Yes  —  we'll  have  one  tea  next  time, 
bandbox  of  a  house  or  no  bandbox.  I 
see  now  ;  three  days  is  too  much 
latitude  for  our  procrastinating  sex. 
It's  too  much  time  to  spread  over,  and 
makes  the  whole  affair  very  shallow  — 
or  very  deep.  O  Margaret !  what  should 
we  do,  if  next  time  there  are  two  or 
three  hundred  people  here  ?  The  house 
wouldn't  hold  them  ! " 

"  There  won't  be  ;  don't  worry  your- 
self. Those  who  are  not  going  to  drop 
in  will  send  their  cards,  and  next  time 
we'll  have  te?i  more  good,  honest  souls 
to  startle  with  our  music  and  our  dec- 
orations and  all  the  rest  of  it." 

"  I  don't  think  so.  People  like  the 
fun  of  going  too  much.  At  least  /do. 
I  really  think  —  Margaret,  I  really  think 
that  perhaps  next  time  we  better  —  it 
would  be  wise — order  a  little  more  of 
everything.  Somehow  I  feel  there's 
going  to  be  a  crowd.  We're  working 
in  the  dark,  I  know.  But  it's  so  much 
better  to  have  too  much  than  too  little." 

Molly,  as  usual,  had  her  way,  and 
the  second  Monday  of  our  series  found 
us  with  all  the  elegancies  of  our  first 
Monday  —  and  a  few  additions. 

The  day  itself  dawned  beautiful  as 
a  dream,  —  clear,  lovely,  sunshiny,  and 
just  enough  cold  in  the  air  to  make 
out-of-doors  delightful.  (There  was 
no  excuse  in  the  weather  for  people 
staying  at  home ! )  And  Molly  sug- 
gested still  another  touch  at  the  last 
moment,  and  so  we  darkened  the  house 
and  lighted  the  lights  (probably  be- 
cause it  was  so  beautiful  outside)  ;  and 
everything  did  look  lovely,  when  we 
once  more  took  our  stations  in  the 
drawing-room  ready  for  the  crush. 

I  need  not  go  into  details.  Our 
second  Monday  was  an  improvement 
on   our   first   Monday,  for  there  were 


just  fifteen  callers  —  an  improvement  of 
five  —  during  that  interminable,  garish, 
gaslighted  afternoon,  and  a  husband 
and  wife  in  the  evening  ;  making  seven- 
tee?i  people  out  of  a  certain  195^  and  a 
possible  586. 

Again  at  ten  o'clock  we  retreated, 
exhausted  and  disgusted.  So  much 
effort,  so  little  result !  Molly  was  de- 
cidedly indignant  at  the  behavior  of 
people,  though  she  was  grieved  too,  I 
could  see.  Poor  child,  she  was  so  fond 
of  her  friends ! 

"  Next  time,  Margaret — " 

"Oh,  woe,  that  there  is  a  next  time  f" 

"  Well,  there  is,  and  you've  got  to 
face  it.  Next  time,  Margaret, —  if  we 
live, —  we'll  do  as  we  ought  to  have 
done  at  first, —  have  a  very  simple  affair. 
Just  some  bunches  of  sweet  flowers 
for  decorations  ;  no  music  or  caterers, 
thank  you.  Mary  and  John  and  cook 
must  attend  to  everything." 

"  But,  my  dear  Molly,  there  are  a 
great  many  more  people  to  come  !  " 

"  They  are  not  coming  !  "  Molly's 
tone  was  almost  tragic  ;  she  was  bitterly 
disappointed.  "  Don't  you  see,  Mar- 
garet —  don't  you  see,  the  real  fashion- 
able people  —  the  real  leaders,  the  ones 
who  jump  over  all  the  fences  first  — 
have  not  been  here  at  all !  We  are  cut 
dead !  But  it's  only  one  more  Mon- 
day. After  that  we  no  longer  need 
hold  up  our  heads ;  after  that  we  can 
hie  us  to  a  nunnery." 

"  I  shouldn't  feel  that  way  at  all. 
And  as  for  this  last  Monday,  I  should 
do  precisely  the  same,  even  to  —  dark- 
ening the  house  and  ordering  a  little 
more."  But  Molly  didn't  notice  my 
little  sarcasm;  she  was  too  cast  down. 

"No,  Margaret,  our  knell  has  struck, 
and  next  Monday  night  at  ten  o'clock  " 
(our  retreating  time  had  evidently  im- 


THE  BOSTOX   COOKIXG-SCIIOOL    MAGAZINE. 


269 


pressed  Molly) — "at  ten  o'clock  you 
will  see  that  I  am  right." 

Next  Monday  night  at  ten  o'clock  my 
sister  was  in  so  different  a  mood  from 
the  Monday  night  before  at  ten  o'clock 
that  she  scarcely  could  have  remem- 
bered such  a  prophecy. 

At  that  time  on  the  following  Mon- 
day evening  our  home  was  one  seething 
mass  of  crushed,  unhappy  (smilingly  un- 
happy), well-dressed  humanity.  Every- 
one was  there,  and  everyone  else  was 
pouring  through  our  front  door. 

By  actual  count,  just  555  people  called 
that  day  ! — all  our  old  friends,  all  our 
new  friends,  everyone  who  had  even  a 
glimpse  of  one  of  our  cards,  and  the 
husbands  as  well  as  the  wives  in  the 
evening.  Our  reception  had  reached 
even  man. 

And  (shame  that  I  must  tell  it)  never 
before,  in  all  the  annals  of  our  house, 
were  guests  who  were  bidden  treated 
so  shabbily. 

All  that  day  where  Molly  was  not 
there  I  was.  But  neither  Molly's 
smiles  and  charm  of  manner,  nor  my 
seconding  smiles  and  charm  of  manner, 
could  make  up  for  the  facts  (the  fear- 
ful facts !)  that  we  were  in  the  midst  of 
a  large  reception  in  our  own  house ; 
that  there  were  no  decorations  (simply 
"bunches  of  sweet  flowers" — and  very 
few  at  that);  that  there  was  no  music; 
that  the  ladies  of  the  house  were  very 
plainly  attired  (we  had  laid  aside  our 
gorgeous  robes  as  decidedly  too  over- 
dressed for  the  occasion)  ;  and  —  to 
crown  all  —  that  there  was  nothing  to 
eat.    Oh  for  a  fraction  of  the  food  that 


had  been  brought  into  that  house 
the  last  weeks !  Mary's  orders  were 
to  pass  chocolate  and  ladyfingers  to 
everyone  who  came ;  but,  after  the  first 
fifty  callers,  Mary  was  utterly  paralyzed, 
and  Delmonico  himself  could  have 
hardly  supplied  the  chocolate. 

John  could  lend  no  helping  hand,  as 
the  front-door  bell  had  been  going  as 
merrily  as  a  marriage-bell  and  inces- 
santly for  hours  ;  and  neither  Molly 
nor  I  could  get  away  from  our  inter- 
minable handshaking  (a  White  House 
reception  was  nothing  to  it)  to  order 
anything  or  anybody  from  anywhere. 

So  all  we  could  do  was  to  put  our 
best  foot  (no :  our  second-best  foot) 
foremost,  and  shake  hands,  and  shake 
hands,  and  shake  hands. 

We  wondered  if  anyone  there  of  all 
that  throng  knew  what  a  nightmare  of 
a  day  that  was,  or  if  anyone  there  had 
ever  been  in  a  like  predicament. 

It  was  two  o'clock  on  the  Tuesday 
morning  following  our  third  and  last 
Monday  when  Molly  made  her  final 
remark  just  before  shutting  her  sleepy 
eyes. 

"Next  time,  Margaret"  (I  started 
nervously  at  "  next  time"  perhaps  from 
force  of  habit) — " next  year ;  I  mean, — 
we'll  give  one  big  crush. —  I  see — we 
managed  it — even  —  in  this  —  band  — 
bandbox — "     And  Molly  slept.  . 

But  Margaret,  still  awake  and  in 
possession  of  all  her  five  senses,  could 
not  for  the  life  of  her  see  (the  fact  is,  J 
couldn't  see  then,  and  I  can't  see  to 
this  day)  how  we  managed  it. 

Can  you  ? 


270 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


SOME  DUTIES  OF  A  WAITRESS. 

By  Catherine  J.  Coolidge,  Drexel  Institute. 

PART    III. 
The  Daily  and  Weekly  Cleansing  of  the  Living-Rooms. 


A  well-aired,  cleaned,  and  sunlit 
house  undoubtedly  plays  a  most  im- 
portant part  in  the  health  of  its  inmates. 
The  importance  of  sunlight  and  air  is 
oftentimes  overlooked  by  housekeepers, 
and  the  fear  of  fading  carpets,  rugs, 
and  furniture  coverings  tempts  them 
to  shut  out  two  of  their  strongest  allies 
in  keeping  a  sweet  and  wholesome 
house.  The  bacteriologist,  by  a  single 
experiment,  can  demonstrate,  in  a  prac- 
tical manner,  the  power  of  sunlight  as 
a  sterilizer.  He  will  expose  to  the  air 
a  glass  dish  spread  with  nutrient  jelly, 
and  catch  within  the  cover  various  or- 
ganisms floating  in  dust  and  air.  These 
organisms  (bacteria,  moulds,  etc.)  set- 
tle themselves  on  the  jelly.  The  dem- 
onstrator then  replaces  the  cover,  and 
encloses  half  of  the  plate  in  a  cap  of 
black  paper.  The  plate  or  dish  is 
now  exposed  to  strong  sunlight  for 
several  hours,  then  withdrawn,  and  the 
organisms  are  allowed  to  develop.  If 
observed  closely,  it  will  be  found  that 
they  grow  in  the  dark  portion  only, 
and  the  part  exposed  to  sunshine  pro- 
duces none.  The  conclusion  is  ap- 
parent. 

In  the  morning  it  should  be  one  of 
the  first  duties  of  the  waitress  to  open 
the  doors  and  windows,  and  create  a 
draught  to  blow  out  the  vitiated  air 
left  from  the  night  before. 

A  list  of  the  utensils  and  materials 
required  for  cleaning  is  given  below. 
The  various  utensils  will  last  a  long 
time  if   carefully  used   and   cared  for. 


The  carpet-sweeper  is  the  most  expen- 
sive, but  with  frequent  oiling  and  clean- 
ing it  will  do  good  service  for  many 
years.  It  must  be  cleaned  each  day, 
or  it  will  scatter  dirt  rather  than  gather 
it.  Empty  the  pans  and  clean  the 
brushes  with  an  old  whisk  broom. 

Utensils  and  Materials  used  for  Sweep- 
ing and  Cleaning. 

1  corn  broom. 

1  long-handled  soft  brush. 

1  soft  dust  brush. 

1  whisk  broom. 

1  long-handled  feather  duster. 

1  carpet-sweeper. 

I  dry  mop. 

1  weighted  brush  (for  waxed  floors). 

1  wash-silk  duster  (for  ornaments). 

1  cheese-cloth  duster  (for  furniture). 

1  cloth  bag  to  draw  over  chandelier. 

Covers  for  furniture  (old  sheets  or  bed- 
spreads, or  covers  made  of  unbleached  cotton). 

Covers  for  pictures. 

Pieces  of  pasteboard  (cut  to  fit  closely 
around  all  flat  pieces  of  brass  which  are  to  be 
polished). 

1  box  of  putz  pomade. 

1  box  whiting. 

1  box  electro-silicon. 

1  bottle  of  ammonia. 

1  bottle  of  alcohol. 

1  bottle  of  furniture  polish. 

1  saucer. 

Pieces  of  old  flannel  and  cotton  cloth. 

A  sweeping-cap  for  the  waitress. 

The  brooms,  brushes,  feather  duster, 
and  mop  should  be  hung  so  that^  they 
will  clear  the  floor. 

The  handles  of  the  carpet-sweeper 
and  mop  should  be  wound  tightly  with 
strips  of   lasting  or   felt,  which    should 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


27I 


be  sewed  firmly  at  the  ends.  Even 
though  the  sweeper  and  mop  are  used 
by  careful  hands,  there  is  more  or  less 
knocking  of  furniture,  and  the  cloth 
prevents  marring. 

To  preserve  the  shape  of  a  feather 
duster  when  not  in  use,  draw  a  close- 
fitting  tube  of  strong  cloth  over  the 
feathers,  from  the  handle  down. 

Straw  brooms  may  be  kept  in  shape 
by  putting  a  strong  band  of  elastic 
around  them  (near  the  bottom)  when 
not  in  use. 

The  kitchen  brooms  and  brushes 
should  be  supplied  from  the  waitress' 
stock  when  hers  are  too  worn  for  car- 
pets, rugs,  and  polished  floors. 

The  advisability  of  using  a  carpet- 
sweeper  is  a  debatable  question,  but 
the  arguments  in  favor  of  its  use  seem 
to  outweigh  those  against  it.  It  should 
be  used  only  for  the  daily  "  brushing 
up,"  and  must  not  be  depended  upon 
in  the  weekly  sweeping.  The  fact  that 
the  brushes  are  under  cover  is  a  guar- 
antee that  the  dust  will  not  fly  about 
as  when  an  open  brush  is  used.  This 
makes  the  sweeper  especially  adapted 
for  use  when  ornaments  and  furniture 
have  not  been  covered  or  removed. 
Its  lack  of  thoroughness  prevents  its 
use  in  the  weekly  cleaning. 

The  Daily   Cleaning. 

Remove  all  dead  flowers,  and  wash 
the  vases.  Change  the  water  of  the 
fresh  flowers.     Close  the  doors. 

Each  day,  if  possible,  or  every  other 
day,  brush  the  upholstered  furniture 
and  tablecovers  lightly  with  a  soft 
whisk  broom.  On  first  thought  this 
may  seem  to  do  more  harm  than  good, 
but  in  reality  a  desirable  result  is  ob- 
tained. 

If  the  room  is  carpeted,  brush  lightly 
from  the  edges  towards  the  centre  for 


a  distance  of  six  inches  all  around, 
then  sweep  the  remaining  surface  with 
the  carpet-sweeper. 

If  the  floor  is  covered  with  matting, 
or  is  bare,  dust  it  with  the  dry  mop. 

If  the  room  contains  fine  rugs,  do 
not  use  the  sweeper  upon  them,  but 
brush  them  gently  with  a  soft  brush. 
Open  the  windows  at  the  top  and  bot- 
tom, and  leave  the  room  five  or  ten 
minutes  while  the  dust  settles.  Take 
the  dusters  and  begin  at  one  corner 
of  the  room.  Dust  all  the  high  things 
first,  then  the  low,  taking  each  article 
in  order.  Gather  the  dust  in  the  cloth, 
and  do  not  scatter  it ;  shake  the  duster 
frequently  in  the  open  air. 

Sometimes  it  seems  a  long  journey 
around  the  room,  but  if  the  waitress 
will  begin  at  different  corners,  on  dif- 
ferent days,  one  day  moving  to  the 
right,  and  the  next  to  the  left,  she  will 
find  less  monotony,  and  the  journey 
half  as  long. 

When  the  duties  of  the  waitress  are 
heavy,  as  in  a  large  family,  the  brush- 
ing need  not  be  done  daily,  though,  if 
done  every  day,  it  is  much  more  hygi- 
enic. Furniture  and  ornaments  should 
be  dusted  every  day. 

Hardwood  floors  should  be  wiped 
with  dry  mop,  wrhich  must  be  shaken 
frequently  out  of  doors.  The  mop 
should  be  washed  occasionally. 

Wash  the  dusters  frequently,  because 
pictures,  ornaments,  and  delicate  ob- 
jects become  dingy,  if  a  soiled  duster 
is  used. 

The    Weekly   Cleaning. 

Close  all  doors.  Remove  the  potted 
plants  and  vases  of  flowers  to  an  ad- 
joining room.  If  the  potted  plants 
are  too  heavy  to  move,  cover  them  with 
a  light  cloth. 

Dust   all   the  frail  ornaments,  place 


272 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


them  on  a  tray,  and  remove  it  from 
the  room. 

Remove  the  sofa  pillows ;  brush, 
dust,  and  cover  the  sofa. 

Brush,  dust,  and  remove  the  chairs 
and  other  small  pieces  of  furniture. 

Remove  the  small  rugs,  and  the  large 
ones  if  possible.  If  the  large  rugs 
cannot  be  removed,  brush  them  gently 
with  a  soft  brush  —  always  with  the 
nap,  not  against  it.  Roll  the  rugs 
tightly,  place  them  at  one  side,  and 
cover  them. 

Clear  the  large  tables,  dust  the  tops, 
and  cover  them  with  paper.  Dust  the 
remaining  ornaments  and  small  pic- 
tures, lay  them  on  the  tables,  and  cover 
all. 

If  open  bookcases  are  used,  begin 
at  the  top,  and  dust  the  books  and 
shelves,  covering  each  shelf  with  a 
strip  of  cloth  as  soon  as  dusted.  Cover 
the  whole  case  with  a  large  cloth. 
Dust,  and  cover  the  remaining  pieces 
of  furniture. 

When  sweeping  a  hardwood  floor, 
begin  at  one  corner  of  the  room,  and 
brush  with  the  grain  of  the  wood.  Use 
the  soft  brush,  and  work  with  a  stroke 
of  equal  length,  moving  across  the 
room,  then  back  again  in  the  same 
way.  Press  the  brush  slightly  to  the 
floor  to  prevent  the  dust  from  flying 
about. 

If  the  floor  is  carpeted,  use  the  stiff 
broom,  and  sweep  lengthwise  the 
breadths,  and  with  the  nap  of  the  car- 
pet. As  soon  as  any  amount  of  dirt 
collects,  take  it  up  in  the  dustpan.  The 
results  are  more  satisfactory  if  the  car- 
pet is  swept  twice,  and  many  house- 
keepers like  to  use  the  carpet-sweepers 
the  second  time. 

Sweep  in  front  of  heavy  pieces  of 
NOTE.  —  Completion  of  "The  Weekly  Cleaning 


furniture,    push   them    from    the    wall, 
and  sweep  behind  them. 

When  the  sweeping  is  done,  cover 
the  brush"  with  cloth,  and  brush  the 
picture  mouldings,  walls,  etc.  Dust 
the  doors,  mopboard,  and  all  wood- 
work within  reach.  The  feather  duster 
may  be  used  for  high  dusting,  but  the 
less  it  is  used  the  better.  It  does  not 
remove  the  dust,  simply  scatters  it, 
and  brings  part  of  it  within  reach. 

Open  the  windows  at  the  top  and 
bottom,  and,  while  the  room  is  airing, 
hang  the  rugs  in  the  sunshine,  out  of 
doors.  Do  not  beat  them,  but  brush 
lightly  with  a  soft  brush,  first  on  one 
side,  and  then  on  the  other,  aluays 
with  the  nap.  Wipe  gently  with  a  soft 
sponge,  which  has  been  wrung  almost 
dry,  out  of  clear,  cold  water.  This 
method  of  cleansing  fine  rugs  is  recom- 
mended by  a  rug  dealer.  Leave  the 
rugs  in  the  open  air,  but  not  in  the 
sunshine,  for  an  hour  after  cleaning. 
A  carpet  may  be  sponged  in  the  same 
way  as  a  rug ;  but  the  sponge  must  be 
only  slightly  damp,  and  all  the  surface 
of  the  carpet  wiped,  or  it  will  look 
streaked.  Don't  walk  over  the  cleansed 
surface  until  it  is  perfectly  dry. 

When  the  room  is  well  aired,  remove 
the  furniture  coverings,  fold  the  dusty 
side  in,  and  put  them  out  of  doors,  to 
be  shaken  after  the  rugs  are  brought 
in.  If  the  room  has  a  hardwood  floor, 
wipe  it  with  a  soft  woollen  cloth,  wrung 
from  warm  (twt  hot)  water,  following 
always  the  grain  of  the  wood.  Water 
should  never  be  used  on  a  waxed  floor, 
except  as  described  later  in  removing 
dust.  If  water,  either  hot  or  cold,  is 
spilled  on  a  waxed  floor,  it  must  be 
wiped  up  immediately  or  the  Moor  will 
spot. 
'  and  "  Care  of  Lamps"  in  next  issue. — Editor. 


THE   BOSTOX  COOKIXG-SCHOOL    MAGAZIXE. 


2lo 


A  RAINBOW  BAZAAR. 
By  Carrie  May  Ashton. 


A  very  successful  church  entertain- 
ment for  Easter  or  holiday  season  is 
a  rainbow  bazaar. 

At  a  delightful  entertainment  of  this 
nature,  a  huge  rainbow  was  arranged 
at  the  front  of  a  large  hall,  from  which 
were  suspended  streamers  of  draperies 
in  the  prismatic  colors,  reaching  to  all 
sides  and  corners  of  the  room,  each 
streamer  terminating  in  a  booth  draped 
in  the  same  color. 

The  violet  booth  was  filled  with  fancy 
work,  including  articles  of  embroidery, 
hem-stitching,  lace  and  drawn  work. 

Next  came  indigo,  with  trimmings  of 
white  bunting.  Here  were  found  the 
more  practical  articles,  such  as  sweep- 
ing-caps, aprons  of  every  conceivable 
style,  clothes-pin  bags,  holders,  dust- 
ing-cloths, shoe-bags,  darning-bags, 
etc. 

Farther  on  was  a  small  booth  with 
drapings  of  pale  blue,  filled  with  a 
large  assortment  of  pillows,  ranging  in 
size  from  the  tiny  one  for  "  his  royal 
highness,  the  baby.''  to  those  for  ham- 
mock and  divan. 

Nothing  could  be  more  attractive 
than  the  green  booth,  with  its  pretty 
green  drapery,  and  ropes  of  smilax, 
and  other  shades  of  green.  This  made 
an  admirable  background  for  the  dolls, 
which  were  dressed  to  represent  all 
countries  and  personages. 

Xo  less  noticeable  was  the  yellow 
booth,  which  was  daintily  draped  in 
crepe  paper,  with  festoons  of  yellow 
flowers.  This  was  devoted  to  the  art 
department,  and  was  in  charge  of  art- 
ists. Many  beautiful  pictures  were  on 
exhibition,   and   a   large   number  were 


offered  for  sale  at  very  reasonable 
prices. 

The  most  picturesque  of  all  the 
booths  was  that  of  orange.  This 
was  formed  of  a  lattice-work  covered 
with  orange  -  colored  bunting.  Over- 
hanging it  was  a  huge  Japanese  um- 
brella, at  each  point  of  which  was  sus- 
pended a  popcorn  ball.  Yards  and 
yards  of  popcorn  were  used  in  the 
construction  of  this  booth.  Here  were 
offered  fresh-buttered  popcorn,  popcorn 
and  milk,  and  popcorn  balls. 

The  next  booth  was  festooned  with 
a  rich  shade  of  red.  Candles  in  black 
wrought-iron  candlesticks,  with  lovely 
red  shades,  shed  a  soft  light  throughout 
this  cosey  nook.  All  manner  of  deli- 
cious confectionery  was  offered  here, 
with  attractive  boxes,  whose  covers 
were  hand  -  painted,  or  ornamented 
with  unique  sketches  or  photographs 
to  tempt  buyers. 

An  oriental  tea-room,  with  its  rare 
tapestries  and  cushions,  and  cunning 
little  tea-tables,  was  a  great  attraction. 

A  pleasing  little  summer  house,  with 
ropes  of  smilax.  afforded  a  deligh-ful 
ice-cream  apartment. 

Among  other  drawing  feature-  of 
the  entertainment  were  a  weird  little 
tent,  presided  over  by  two  gypsies,  in 
quaint  costumes,  who  told  fortunes  for 
a  small  sum;  and  a  fishpond,  where 
anything  could  be  captured,  from  fish 
to  colored  babies. 

A  brownie  incline  affords  no  end  of 
'amusement  for  the  little  people. 

A  half-dozen  funny  little  fellows,  in 
comical  costumes,  go  tumbling  head 
over  heels  down  an  inclined  board. 


274 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


THE  PROPHET  AND  THE  BEANPOT. 

By  Helen  Campbell. 


"  The  American  is  an  appropriator ; 
for  that  there  shall  be  no  question," 
said  the  Prophet,  musingly.  "  But 
what  shall  be  question  is  this :  Why 
will  he  take  a  part  and  not  the  whole  ? 
If  a  part  be  good,  is  not  the  whole 
better  ?  " 

"That  depends  absolutely  on  the 
thing  taken,"  replied  the  Mistress  of 
the  house.  "  One  might  not  want  more 
than  a  part,  you  know." 

"  That  is  true,  certainly,"  said  the 
Prophet,  who  had  but  partial  compre- 
hension of  jokes,  and  in  whom  humor 
had  only  bare  suggestion  ;  "but  knowl- 
edge would  mean  understanding  why 
the  whole  might  be  better  than  the 
part." 

We  waited.  It  was  always  worth 
while  to  wait,  since  valuable  results 
were  sure  to  follow.  But  the  Mistress 
smiled  a  patient  smile  and  looked  at  me 
as  one  who  would  say  :  — 

"  On  the  whole,  fascinating  as  all  this 
East  Indian  business  is,  give  me  the 
plain  American  for  seeing  all  around  a 
thing." 

"  You  are  smiling,"  the  Prophet  said, 
fixing  his  eyes  seriously  on  our  faces. 
"  That,  too,  is  a  question,  as  to  why  life 
seems  to  you  something  that  may  al- 
ways be  a  laugh.  But  what  is  in  my 
mind  is,  that  you  take  the  beanpot 
from  the  Assyrian,  but  you  will  not 
take  the  method  of  the  Assyrian  with 
it.  I  say  Assyrian,  because  one  may 
see  in  the  spoils  from  Nineveh  in  the 
British  Museum,  or  in  Layard's  '  Nine- 
veh,' the  beanpot  of  Boston.  But  the 
Assyrian,  like  the   Hindoo,  or,  on  this 


side,  the  Mexican,  —  who  takes  his 
methods  partly  from  the  Indian  and 
partly  from  the  conquering  Spaniard, — 
knew,  like  my  own  people,  the  mean- 
ing of  the  red  pepper  and  of  all  savory 
herbs.  Of  that  I  have  talked  with  you 
already.  I  have  analyzed  many  of 
these  bitters  that  druggists  keep  on 
their  shelves,  and  that  are  found  most 
of  all  in  the  country.  In  all  is  tincture 
of  capsicum.  It  is  that  that  warms 
and  stimulates  and  does  the  little  por- 
tion of  good  for  the  liver  that  has  been 
clogged  with  your  American  grease 
and  sugar  and  starch  in  the  things  you 
call  pies  and  doughnuts,  and  in  the  pork 
that  is  staple  in  the  country.  Yet,  if 
I  say  that  this  red  pepper  shall  be 
acknowledged  as  the  one  essential  for 
giving  true  savor,  there  comes,  as  in 
my  pocket  here,  in  these  letters,  so 
great  objection  from  your  sanitariums 
and  like  places.  They  write  me  I  must 
be  mistaken,  because  the  Hindoo  pop- 
ulation have  small  vitality,  and  die 
easily ;  and  it  must  be  underfeeding,  in 
part,  and  too  much  pepper  for  the  rest. 
Then  I  laugh  enough  to  content  you 
both.  Underfeeding,  surely,  for  mill- 
ions who,  though  still  untaught  and 
under  British  rule,  pay  in  taxes  what 
might  mean  food  and  longer  life ;  but 
for  the  class  above,  and  all  who  are 
taught  and  live  right  lives,  there  is 
small  disease,  and  none  of  those  that 
mark  the  English  race  here  or  at  home. 
Rheumatism,  Bright's  disease,  —  all 
those  things  that  are  part  of  ignorance 
and  overeating  of  improper  food,  and, 
too,  the  haste  and  fret  and  rush  of  this 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


275 


Western  life,  — all  these  things  maybe 
unknown  if  you  will  learn  the  simple 
laws  which  govern  food.  I  am  taught, 
as  a  child,  to  sit  down  with  blessing  in 
the  heart ;  to  be  glad  that  food  is ;  to 
know  that  it  is  for  making  true  shrine 
for  the  spirit  that  must  work ;  then  to 
enjoy,  slowly,  decently,  with  all  that 
can  make  it  joyful  ceremony.  That  is 
what  I,  as  Sufi,  learn,  and  that  is  one 
thing  that  makes  me  in  middle  life 
called  still  a  boy.  You  think  me  young, 
and  so  I  am ;  but  not  as  you  say  :  and 
what  you  call  my  youth  is  only  knowl- 
edge of  natural  law,  and  this  from 
teaching  that  should  belong  to  every 
child." 

"It  is  coming,"  said  the  Mistress; 
"  the  cooking-school  at  its  best  will 
make  the  next  generation  as  much 
stronger  and  better,  as  ours  is  than  the 
last.  The  average  length  of  life  has 
increased  during  the  nineteenth  century 
from  thirty  years  to  forty,  because  of 
better  knowledge,  and  so  better  food, 
sanitation,  and  all  that  means  prolong- 
ing life.  We  are  stronger,  bigger,  in 
some  ways  wiser,  than  our  grandfathers, 
only  it  is  a  rise  all  along  the  line,  not 
for  a  few  privileged  ones.  Figures 
prove  it,  and  now  they  have  boiled  it 
down  for  a  review,  and  all  may  read, 
if  they  like,  what  an  expert  says  about 
it."  * 

"  Good!  "  said  the  Prophet.  "  Now 
restore  the  pepper  to  its  rightful  place. 
Use  no  more  the  ground  abomination 
that  is  one  adulteration,  but  the  little 
bird  ones,  of  which  but  a  bit  will  do, 
for  this  American  palate,  all  that  is 
necessary,  till  it  learns  that  more  is  to 
be  borne,  and  at  last  enjoyed.  It  is 
your  baked  beans  that  need  it  most, 
for  so  dies  the  acridity  that  is  in  bean 
*  The  Forum,  February,  1900. 


skins,  and  that  you  seek  to  hide  with 
molasses.  A  little  molasses  may  be 
borne,  because  it  is  your  custom ;  but 
sugar  that  will  not  ferment  is  better. 
Be  that  as  you  will ;  but  in  my  bean- 
pot  that  is  here  in  this  packet —  " 

"  But  you  travel  with  a  beanpot,  — 
you  who  are  going  from  end  to  end  of 
the  continent !  " 

"  Only  till  now,  that  I  may  present 
it  to  its  proper  owner.  It  came  to  me 
in  Boston,  and  in  the  house  of  an 
English  friend,  who  detested  the  Bos- 
ton bean.  His  little  son  thought  like- 
wise. '  It  was  for  cattle,'  they  said, 
1  not  for  men.'  But  we  both  have  a 
friend  who  is  an  Egyptologist,  and  who 
remembers  us,  and  he  sends  to  us  in  a 
box  what  the  child,  who  handles  many 
books,  had  already  seen  in  his  father's 
copy  of  '  Nineveh  and  its  Remains.' 
'  It  is  a  king's  beanpot,'  he  said,  when 
the  box  was  opened  and  the  two  pots 
disclosed  ;  '  there  are  rows  and  rows  of 
them  in  the  book.  If  kings  ate  beans, 
I  am  going  to  do  it  too.'  I  touched 
the  father,  who  was  shaking  his  head. 
'Let  it  be  so,'  I  said;  'the  child  of 
to-day  must  be  cosmopolitan.  If  this 
makes  him  eat  beans,  then  welcome 
it.'  And  then  I  remember  the  beans 
we  have  baked  here,  —  a  struggle  in 
this  altitude,  it  is  true, —  and  I  say 
that  you  must  have  a  pot,  not  for  the 
cook,  perhaps,  who  would  not  care  for 
its  three  thousand  years,  but  would 
break  it  with  as  much  speed  as  if  it 
owned  but  one  ;  —  not  for  her,  but  for 
your  own  handling.  In  it  you  shall 
bake  the  bean  as.  it  is  to  be." 

"Never!"  returned  the  Mistress 
firmly.  "  Bake  in  a  pot  that  may  have 
been  in  a  grave  for  three  thousand 
years  ?  I  could  not  ;  I  should  taste 
mouldy    Assyrian    in    every    bean.     It 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


shall  have  place  of  honor,  —  the  best  I 
can  give  it,  —  but  the  beanpot  it  must 
never  be." 

"  And  I,  who  have  borne  it  across 
the  continent  —  what  shall  I  feel?" 
said  the  Prophet,  tragically. 

"  Feel  that  I  own  common  sense,  and 
will  put  the  royal  pot  where  you  may 
see  it,  with  the  certainty  that  it  is  not 
to  be  smashed  in  reckless  using.  Now 
tell  us  how  the  bean  is  to  be  dealt  with 
from  your  point  of  view." 

"  I  would  say,  first,  abolish  the 
white  bean,"  the  Prophet  said,  after  a 
lingering  look,  in  which  he  seemed  to 
determine  that  the  Mistress  was  too 
thoroughly  in  earnest  to  be  turned 
aside  from  her  decision.  "  It  is  the 
dark  bean  that  has  most  flavor  and 
most  nourishment,  and  that  blends 
best  with  what  one  may  add  to  it. 
The  Spaniard  knows  this,  and  so 
the  Mexican.  They  do  not  bake,  but 
they  soak,  and  then  stew  slowly  for 
many  hours.  But  for  us  the  bean  is 
as  the  progressive  vegetarian  is  to 
handle  it.  There  are  forms  enough  in 
the  cookery  books  for  the  old  ways. 
But  for  the  older  ones,  old  as  the 
Assyrian  pot,  let  us  see.  There  is  first, 
to  remember  that  for  us  enters  in  no 
pork,  and  also  that  nut-butter  can  be 
used,  if  the  eater  is  resolute.  But  we 
choose  sweet  butter  of  the  cow,  and 
the  bean  must  have  plenty.  Now  I  take 
the  dry  beans,  one  pint,  and  they  soak 
as  if  for  the  New  England  way,  and 
they  boil  also  like  them.  Now  in  the 
pot  I  put  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and 
one  of  sugar  or  molasses,  as  you  will, 
one  of  the  little  bird  peppers  in  bits,  or, 
if  they  may  not  be  had,  then  quarter 
a  saltspoonful  of  cayenne,  and  a  pinch 
of  mustard.  I  chop  a  sour  apple  fine; 
if    there   were   none,  it  should   be   the 


juice  of  an  orange  or  of  two  or  three 
limes.  I  put  in  the  beans,  which  have 
been  cooked  unseasoned,  half  a  pound 
of  best  butter ;  stir  till  all  melts  ;  then 
into  the  pot,  and  for  eight  hours  (twelve 
is  better),  in  an  Aladdin  oven,  if  may 
be  ;  if  not,  in  gas  range,  with  oven  very 
slow.  In  a  lumber  camp  it  would  be 
an  iron  pot  buried  in  hot  ashes  ;  but 
iron  is  against  the  nature  of  the  bean  : 
it  must  have  earthen. 

"This  is  the  simple  way,  and  you 
know  that  they  are  good.  Now  comes 
the  varying.  There  shall  be  curried 
beans,  and  this  is,  that  part  of  the  but- 
ter shall  be  used  for  the  frying  of  two 
minced  onions  and  a  minced  apple,  and 
in  it  a  round  teaspoonful,  as  you  say, 
of  curry  powder;  and  all  this  goes  into 
the  pot  and  bakes  the  same.  Then, 
too,  are  curried  beans  with  tomato  ;  and 
this  is  your  can  of  tomato  poured  over 
the  beans  in  the  pot  and  baked  always 
the  same.  That  is  food  for  gods. 
There  must  be  no  slop ;  just  a  creamy 
richness  of  juice,  and  the  penetrating 
and  so  cheerful  smell  and  taste  of 
the  blended  powers.  Sweet  herbs  are 
not  in  order,  but  the  apple  is  ever  so, 
and  the  tomato  and  the  onion.  If  the 
workingman  had  his  food  so  savory,  so 
satisfying,  he  would  not  seek  the  saloon 
to  drink.  It  is  not  true  that  the  curry 
makes  craving  for  drink.  It  is  starved 
tissues  that  call  for  alcohol.  I  say  to 
you  again  that  savor  must  be  part  of 
food,  if  thought  is  to  be  born  for  active 
life.  The  mystic  who  forsakes  life  may 
find  his  handful  of  rice  enough.  Men 
who  are  to  conquer  the  earth  must  be 
fed  to  perfection,  a  thought  in  every 
mouthful.  Pythagoras  preached  beans, 
but  it  was  beans  with  a  savor,  as  I  tell 
you  now.  Apply  this  to  all  legumes. 
Peas  have  more  rankness,  and  so  one 
throws  away  the  water  in  which  they 
are  first  parboiled.  But  peas,  too,  can 
be  baked,  but  always  with  the  apple,  if 
may  be,  or  tomato  ;  alone,  they  lack 
principle. 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


277 


SELECTED  VERSE. 


THE    EARTH    AND    MAN. 

A  little  sun,  a  little  rain, 

A  soft  wind  blowing  from  the  west  — 
And  woods  and  fields  are  sweet  again, 

And  warmth  within  the  mountain's  breast. 

So  simple  is  the  earth  we  tread, 

So  quick  with  love  and  life  her  frame  ; 

Ten  thousand  years  have  dawned  and  fled, 
And  still  her  magic  is  the  same. 

A  little  love,  a  little  trust, 

A  soft  impulse,  a  sudden  dream  — 
And  life  as  dry  as  desert  dust 

Is  fresher  than  a  mountain  stream. 

So  simple  is  the  heart  of  man, 
So  ready  for  new  hope  and  joy  I 

Ten  thousand  years  since  it  began 
Have  left  it  younger  than  a  boy. 

—  Stop  ford  A.  Brooke. 


SOME    OTHER    DAY. 

Some  other  day  take  time  to  fret  ; 

To-day  much  work  is  waiting, 
And  it  will  tax  your  wits  to  get 

It  done;  so  cease  berating 
The  evil  chance  that  makes  you  strive, 

With  never  cause  for  crowing, 
Or  else  your  worry  will  deprive 

Your  toil  of  any  showing. 

Some  other  day  take  time  to  grieve, 

For  joy  is  waiting  near  you; 
But  if  you  moan  'twill  surely  leave, 

And  harpies  come  to  jeer  you. 
Put  off  the  tears  —  on  with  the  smiles ! 

Give  mirth  its  jolly  inning, 
And  trust  that  in  life's  rich  defiles, 

You'll  somewhere  make  a  winning. 

Some  other  day,  if  not  to-day, 

The  cares  that  vex  us  sadly 
Will  in  the  distance  fade  away, 

And  peace  dwell  with  us  gladly  ; 
So  lift  those  drooping  lips  and  eyes, 

Good  comrade  ;  make  profession 
Of  healthy  faith  —  be  wise,  be  wise  ! 

Keep  up  with  the  procession  ! 


SPEECH. 

Talk  happiness.     The  world  is  sad  enough 

Without  your  woes  :  no  path  is  wholly  rough. 

Look  for  the  places  that  are  smooth  and  clear, 

And  speak  of  those  to  rest  the  tired  ear 

Of  earth,  so  hurt  by  weary  strain 

Of  human  discontent  and  cries  and  pain. 

Talk  faith.     The  world  is  better  off  without 
Your  uttered  ignorance  and  morbid  doubt. 
If  you  have  faith  in  God,  or  man,  or  self, 
Say  so ;  if  not,  push  back  upon  the  shelf 
Of  silence.      All  your  thoughts  of  faith  shall 

come  : 
Xo  one  shall  grieve  because  your  lips  are  dumb. 

Talk  health.     The  dreary,  never-ending  tale 
Of  mortal  maladies  is  worn  and  stale. 
You  cannot  charm,  nor  interest,  nor  please 
By  harping  on  the  minor  chord,  disease. 
Say  you  are  well,  or  all  is  well  with  you, 
And  God  shall  hear  your  words  and  make  them 
true.  — Ella  Wheeler  Wilcox. 


BRING     FLOWERS. 

Bring  flowers,  bring  flowers,  the  sweetest,  the 

best, 
To  garland  the  beds  where  our  brave  are  at 

rest. 
Bring   pansies    for   thoughts,    unforgotten  are 

they  ; 
Bring  laurel  for  glory,  they  won  in  the  fray ; 
Bring  lilacs   for   youth  —  many  fell   ere  their 

prime  ; 
Bring  oak  leaves  for  Liberty,  goddess  sublime ; 
Bring  chrysanthemums  white  for  the  truth  they 

implore  ; 
Bring  lilies  for  peace  — they  battle  no  more  ; 
Bring  violets,  myrtles,  and  roses  for  love  ; 
Bring  snowballs  for  thoughts  of  the  Heaven 

above ; 
Bring    hawthorn    for    hope    which    surmounts 

earthly  strife  ; 
Bring  amaranth  blossoms  for  immortal  life. 
Biing  flowers,  bring  flowers,  the  sweetest,  the 

best, 
To   garland  the  beds  where  our  brave  are  at 

rest.  — Youth's  Companion. 


278 


THE   BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


Zftc  Boston  Cooking *5cbool 
Corporation. 

Established  1879.  Incorporated  1882. 

School  :  372  Boylston  Street. 


BOARD   OF  MANAGERS,  1900. 

Mrs.  WM.  B.  SEWALL         -        -        -     President. 
Mrs.  STEPHEN  D.    BENNETT,   Vice-President. 


EXECUTIVE  COMMITTEE. 

Mrs.  WM.  B.  SEW  AW,, 

Miss  ELLEN  M.  CHANDLER, 
Mrs.  ELLIOTT  RUSSELL. 
Mrs.  MOORFIELD  STOREY, 

Mrs.  LANGDON  SHANNON  DAVIS, 
Mrs.  WALTER  CHANNING, 
Mrs.  WINSLOW  WARREN, 
Miss  MINNA   TRAIN, 

Mrs.  EVERETT   MORSS. 
Mrs.  G.  E.  NILES,  Treasurer. 
Mrs.  EVERETT  MORSS,  Secretary. 
Principal,   Miss  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER. 
1  Miss  CHARLOTTE  JAMES  WILLS. 
Assistants,     Misg  MARIA  w<  HOWARD. 


TLhc  Boston   GoofeinG^Scbool 
flbaga3ine, 

Of  Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics. 

PUBLISHED   BIMONTHLY. 

OFFICIAL     JOURNAL     OF     THE     BOSTON 
COOKING-SCHOOL   CORPORATION. 

Publication  Office: 
372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

JANET  MCKENZIE  HILL     -  Editor. 

BENJ.  M.  HILL, 
R.  B.  HILL, 


General  Manager. 
Business  Manager. 


Subscription   50   cts.    per    year.      Single    Copies 

10  cts. 

Advertising  rates  furnished  on  application. 


To  Subscribers. 

The  date  stamped  on  wrapper  is  the  date  of 
expiration  of  your  subscription.  Please  renew 
by  means  of  the  blank  form  enclosed. 

When  sending  notice  to  renew  subscription  or 
change  address,  please  give  the  old  address  as 
well  as  the  new. 

We  use  in  our  subscription  list  the  card 
index  system,  by  which  absolute  accuracy  is  se- 
cured ;  but  in  referring  to  an  original  entry  we 
must  know  the  name  as  it  was  formerly  given, 
together  with  the  Postoffice,  County,  State,  Post- 
office  Box,  or  Street  Number. 


Filtered  at  Boston  Postoffice  as  second-class 
matter. 


\I  7TTH  the  subscribers  to  the  Bos- 
*  *  ton  Cooking-School  Magazine 
we  have  come  to  feel  almost  person- 
ally acquainted.  It  is  our  desire  to 
make  our  pages  so  useful  that  they 
may  be  acceptable  to  as  large  a  number 
of  readers  as  possible,  and  we  regret 
the  loss  of  a  single  name  from  our  list 
of  subscribers. 

And  we  are  pleased  to  feel  that  our 
readers  have  been  remarkably  constant 
as  well  as  loyal  to  the  cause  we  in  com- 
mon maintain.  We  know  that  many 
of  them  have  the  several  volumes  of 
the  Magazine  complete  from  the  first 
issue.  We  are  constantly  solicited  by 
many  more  to  supply  back  numbers  to 
complete  volumes,  which,  we  are  sorry 
to  say,  we  cannot  always  furnish,  as 
certain  editions  have  been  entirely  ex- 
hausted. 

Do  we  err  in  thinking  that  one  who 
has  preserved  the  numbers  of  a  single 
volume  of  the  Boston  Cooking-School 
Magazine  has  a  cook-book  of  no 
inconsiderable  value,  or  that  several 
successive  volumes  not  only  make  a 
very  complete  cook-book,  but  also  con- 
tain besides  a  mass  of  valuable  read- 
ing-matter that  pertains  to  every  phase 
of  domestic  science  or  housekeeping  ? 

We  aim  not  so  much  to  attract  the 
reader  of  a  moment  as  the  steadfast 
patron,  who  is  interested  in  homemak- 
ing,  and  all  that  tends  to  bring  happi- 
ness and  contentment  to  home  life. 
The  articles  we  seek  to  represent  on 
our  advertising  pages  will  bear  inspec- 
tion. They  are  the  choicest  of  the  kind 
in  the  market,  and  will  be  found  strictly 
reliable  in  every  respect. 

Since,  however,  it  is  well  known  that 
only  the  fact  that  a  magazine  has  a 
large  number  of  readers  and  patrons 
renders  possible  the  publication  of  this 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


279 


and  other  periodicals,  at  the  extremely 
low  prices  that  prevail  to-day,  is  it  pre- 
sumption on  our  part  to  suggest  to  our 
patrons  that  a  word  fitly  spoken  by 
them  may  aid  us  in  extending  the  cir- 
culation, and  thus  in  improving  the 
quality  and  increasing  the  usefulness 
of  the  Magazine  ? 


\\  7ITHIN  the  past  decade  or  two 
*  ^  the  advent  of  woman  into  busi- 
ness has  been  phenomenal.  Young 
women,  in  large  numbers,  have  turned 
away  from  their  natural  avocations  to 
vie  with  men  amid  the  strife  and  toil 
of  business  life.  Instead  of  opposing, 
men,  it  seems,  have  encouraged  this 
invasion  of  their  domain,  partly  from 
sentiment,  and  partly  from  economical 
considerations. 

Now  it  is  said  that  the  movement 
has  not  been  altogether  successful. 
Already  indications  are  strong  that  a 
reaction  has  set  in,  and  the  gradual 
return  of  the  business  woman  to  her 
former  ideals  has  begun.  How  often 
woman's  zeal  is  misdirected  ! 

With  all  this  we  are  not  greatly  con- 
cerned. Granted  that  "  women  have 
forced  economic  recognition  of  their 
labor  in  men's  spheres;  but  especial 
woman's  work,  housework,  remains  an 
economic  cipher.  Domestic  labor  is 
accorded  no  rational  recognition  in  the 
mind  of  political  economy,  or  in  the 
heart  of  labor  reform.  The  economic 
status  of  domestic  labor  has  not  ad- 
vanced beyond  that  of  the  barbarian 
who  is  his  own  carpenter,  shoemaker, 
cook,  tailor,  and  blacksmith." 

Is  it  not  passing  strange,  this  vain 
attempt  of  woman  to  evade  the  walks 
of  life  nature  has  so  plainly  marked 
out  for  her,  to  compete  with  men  in 
coarser  and  more  uncouth  pursuits  ? 


Now,  domestic  science  is  a  subject 
that  is  entirely  worthy  of  woman's  keen- 
est attention.  It  offers  to  her  many 
an  intricate  problem  for  solution.  Hith- 
erto, advancement  here  has  not  kept 
pace  with  progress  in  other  lines  of 
effort.  "  The  condition,  it  is  said,  of 
domestic  labor  is  almost  entirely  unaf- 
fected by  the  general  industrial  prog- 
ress of  the  world."  In  many  cases, 
housekeeping  is  a  lamentable  failure, 
resulting  in  sickness,  distress,  and  mis- 
ery. Nowhere  is  the  supply  of  helpers 
in  the  home  greater  than  the  demand, 
while  an  effort  to  obtain  skilled  or 
trained  helpers  lies  entirely  outside  the 
pale  of  possible  satisfaction. 

This  is  just  as  it  should  not  be. 
Housekeeping  should  be  raised  to  the 
dignity  of  a  calling  second  in  impor- 
tance to  no  other  on  earth.  As  a 
factor  in  social  economy,  the  home  is 
fundamental  and  far  reaching  in  its 
influence;  all  the  finer  qualities  of 
human  nature  are  cultivated  in  home 
life. 

The  bane  of  housework  is  the  stigma 
of  menial  service  that  has  become 
attached  to  the  calling.  But,  as  the 
author  from  whom  we  have  just  quoted 
says,  "  To  so  much  as  name  a  servant 
question  in  a  democracy  is  to  define 
an  anomaly  potent  with  all  sorts  of 
disorders ;  and  dealing  with  domestic 
labor  under  this  head  tends  inevitably 
to  nothing  but  confusion."  In  many 
another  business  the  drudgery  is  vastly 
greater  than  in  housekeeping.  No 
longer  is  any  class  of  labor  regarded 
menial ;  work  of  every  kind  and  grade 
is  to  be  rewarded  in  accordance  with 
the  skill  with  which  it  is  performed. 
Is  cooking  distasteful  ?  Let  us  make 
it  an  art.  Is  washing  and  ironing 
drudgery  ?     Let  us   patronize  well-con- 


280 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


ducted  establishments,  or  build  cooper- 
ative laundrie\ 

As  the  principal  of  a  large  and  pros- 
perous school  said  recently,  "  People 
are  but  just  coming  up  to  the  idea  that 
girls  should  be  educated  toward  the 
home,  rather  than  the  business  world. 
When  I  began,"  he  says,  "  the  teaching 
of  girls  in  cooking  and  hygiene,  people 
thought  I  was  degrading  education. 
Now  one  hears  about  almost  nothing 
but  domestic  science,  the  needs  of  good 
housekeepers,  and  sanitation  in  all  its 
varied  phases."  Think  of  it:  should 
not  girls  be  educated  toward  the  home 
rather  than  the  business  world  ? 


\  X  7E  desire  to  make  our  department 
'  *  of  Queries  and  Answers  as  use- 
ful and  helpful  as  possible.  No  better 
way  has  been  devised  to  teach  the 
results  of  experience,  or  convey  infor- 
mation to  those  who  are  really  inter- 
ested in  a  process,  a  science,  or  an  art, 
than  by  the  means  of  question  and 
answer.  Hence  we  submit  here  just 
a  word  of  explanation  and  suggestion 
to  our  correspondents. 

All  inquiries,  to  which  an  early  an- 
swer is  desired,  must  be  sent  in  at 
least  by  the  first  of  the  month  preced- 
ing the  date  of  publication.  This  will 
not  always  insure  an  answer  in  our 
next  number ;  for  our  space  is  lim- 
ited, and,  when  the  pages  allotted  to 
this  topic  have  been  filled,  additional 
material  must,  of  necessity,  lie  over 
until  the  following  number. 

In  making  inquiries,  will  our  corre- 
spondents please  try  to  be  quite  explicit 
in  stating  just  what  is  desired  ?  The 
names  of  recipes  ought  to  stand  for 
something ;    and    yet,  too    often,   they 


are  but  local  appellations,  signifying 
nothing  by  which  they  may  be  identi- 
fied or  classified.  On  this  account 
describe  carefully,  and  make  your 
wants  plain.  For  instance,  specify 
whether  the  article  in  question  is  to 
be  served  hot  or  cold.  If  it  be  a  cold 
dessert,  is  it  to  be  moulded  or  not; 
frozen,  or  simply  chilled  ?  In  all  cases 
give  specific  directions,  and  all  the 
help  you  can.  Then,  if  we  fail  to  an- 
swer, be  assured  that  our  remissness 
is  due  to  necessity,  and  not  to  any  lack 
of  attention  on  our  part.  Grant  indul- 
gence and  try  again. 


The  following  clipping  from  the 
Medical  Journal  contains  more  or  less 
good  advice  for  others  than  doctors  : 
"Drink  less,  breathe  more;  eat  less, 
chew  more ;  ride  less,  walk  more ; 
clothe  less,  bathe  more;  worry  less, 
work  more ;  waste  less,  give  more ; 
write  less,  read  more;  preach  less, 
practise  more." 


Never  bear  more  than  one  trouble 
at  a  time.  Some  people  bear  three 
kinds,  — all  they  ever  had,  and  all  they 
have  now,  and  all  they  expect  to  have. 
—  Edward  Everett  Hale. 


Soul  strength  comes  from  the  exer- 
cise of  one's  own  will,  and  not  from 
following  the  will  of  some  other  soul. 
—  Mary  Ailing  Aber. 


"  Let  me  make   your  songs,"  said  an  ancient 
brother, 
"  And  never  care  I  who  makes  your  laws  ; " 
"  Let  me  furnish   your  food,"  said  wiser  an- 
other, 
"  And    valor   and    virtue    shall    win    every 
cause."  — /.  Jlf.  L. 


After=Breakfast  Chat 

By  Janet  M.   Hill. 


I  like  breakfast-time  better  than  any  other  moment  in   the   day.     No  dust  has  settled  on 
one's  mind  then,  and  it  presents  a  clear  mirror  to  the  rays  of  things. —  George  Eliot. 

The  world  is  satisfied  with  words;  few  care  to  dive  beneath  the  surface. —  Pascal. 

According  to  your  own  disposition  you  judge  of  the  ways  of  others. —  Pliny. 


George  Eliot's  breakfast-time,  when 
the  mind  "  presents  a  clear  mirror  to 
the  rays  of  things,"  is  perhaps  surpassed 
in  clearness  of  mental  vision  by  the 
waking  moments  after  the  first  heavy 
sleep  of  the  night.  The  absolute  quiet 
of  the  house  and  street,  accentuated  by 
the  clicking  of  the  distant  clock,  the 
restful  position  and  the  brain  refreshed 
by  the  first  profound  sleep,  are  condi- 
tions that  often  present  an  hour  in 
which  we  are  able  to  work  out,  as  at  no 
other  time,  the  problems  that  perplex 
and  disturb.  But,  if  one  is  in  such 
a  perfect  state  of  health  that  of  the 
period  set  apart  for  sleep  no  wakeful 
hour  occurs,  perhaps  the  time  most 
opportune  for  taking  account  of  stock, 
and  thinking  over  the  various  perplex- 
ities in  the  business  of  housekeeping, 
comes  just  after  the  breakfast  hour. 
Yet,  if  one  has  eaten  what  is  known  as 
the  "  American  breakfast,"  this  may  not 
be  just  the  most  favorable  occasion  for 
the  consideration  of  weighty  matters. 
Women  who  remain  at  home,  however, 
are  taking  quite  kindly  to  the  "  Con- 
tinental breakfast;"  so,  with  house  "set 
a-going,"  children  off  to  school,  why 
not  take  a  few  moments,  sit  down,  and 
think  over  matters  ?  By  so  doing  we 
will  make  fewer  mistake's,  and  in  the 
long  run  gain  time.  Do  we  think 
enough  ?     Are  not  many  of  our  errors 


of  judgment  due  more  to  lack  of 
thought  than  to  lack  of  heart  ?  Would 
it  not  obviate  much  of  the  irritation 
incident  to  domestic  service,  if  both 
housekeeper  and  maid  cultivated  a 
broader  and  more  comprehensive  view 
of  the  situation  —  if  each  looked  at 
matters  from  the  other's  point  of  view? 

All  have  read  the  satire  of  the  poet 
Saxe,  based  upon  the  old  Hindoo  fable 
of  the  six  wise  men  of  Hindostan  who 
went  to  see  the  elephant,  but  who, 
unfortunately  were  all  blind.  Their 
knowledge  of  the  creature,  like  that  of 
all  blind  people,  was  gained  through 
the  sense  of  touch.  One,  passing  his 
hand  along  the  broad  side  of  the 
animal,  spoke  of  him  as  like  a  wall. 
Another,  taking  hold  of  his  tusk,  and 
carrying  his  investigations  no  further, 
said  he  is  like  a  spear.  The  third, 
taking  the  squirming  trunk  in  his 
hands,  pronounced  him  a  snake.  The 
fourth,  confining  his  attention  to  his 
stout  leg,  called  him  a  tree.  The  fifth, 
who  took  hold  of  the  fan-shaped  ear, 
called  him  a  fan;  and  the  sixth,  seiz- 
ing his  tail,  exclaimed,  "  I  see  ;  the  ele- 
phant is  very  like  a  rope."  We  laugh 
at  these  hasty  conclusions,  drawn  from 
such  one-sided  knowledge  of  the  ani- 
mal, and  think  we  never  form  judg- 
ment so  hastily. 

But  there  are  so  many  things  to  in- 


282 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


vestigate,  and  we  have  so  little  time, 
or  even  inclination,  to  look  beneath 
the  surface,  do  we  not  daily  draw 
equally  shallow  and  superficial  con- 
clusions? No  two  individuals  look  at 
any  subject  from  exactly  the  same 
point  of  view,  and,  while  each  may  be 
correct  in  her  conclusions  in  a  meas- 
ure, the  error  lies  —  and  half  truth  is 
error  —  in  not  going  far  enough,  in  not 
having  sufficient  knowledge  upon  which 
to  draw  conclusions  or  base  deductions. 
In  the  kitchen,  on  the  playground,  in 
the  schoolroom,  in  the  office, —  every- 
where, where  two  or  more  individuals 
are  associated  together  for  labor  or 
society, —  matters  daily  arise  in  which 
each  of  the  participants  is  wont  to  look 
upon  but  one  side  and  hastily  exclaim, 
as   did   the  blind   men   of   Hindostan, 


"  He  is  tree,"  "  He  is  very  like  a  rope." 
Each  individual  is  possessed  with  an 
inherent  love  of  his  own  personality ; 
he  is  often  a  nobleman  in  his  own  esti- 
mation. He  resents  being  thought  a 
"fan,"  when  he  instinctively  knows  he 
is  an  "  elephant."  In  time  we  learn  to 
respect  "  the  stranger  within  our  gates ;" 
but,  until  that  time  comes,  let  us  treat 
him  with  no  disrespect,  for  we  may  be 
entertaining  angels  unawares.  Wait 
until  we  have  seen  more  than  mere 
external  appearance  before  pronounc- 
ing judgment.  Let  us  not  be  so  zeal- 
ous in  the  effort  to  retain  or  secure 
our  rights  as  utterly  to  lose  sight  of 
the  rights  of  others.  There  are  always, 
at  least,  two  sides  to  the  elephant;  let 
us  make  sure  that  we  have  seen  both 
sides  before  we  pass  judgment. 


BIDE  A  WEE  AND  DINNA  FRET. 


Is  the  road  very  dreary  ? 
Patience  yet. 
Rest  will  be  sweeter  if  thou  art  a-weary, 
And  after  night  cometh  the  morning  cheery; 

Then  bide  a  wee  and  dinna  fret. 

The  clouds  have  silver  lining, 
Don't  forget. 
And  though  he's  hidden,  still  the  sun  is  shining ; 
Courage  I  instead  of  tears  and  vain  repining, 

Just  bide  a  wee  and  dinna  fret. 


With  toil  and  cares  unending 
Art  beset  ? 
Bethink   thee   how   the  storms,  from    heaven 

descending, 
Snap  the  stiff  oak,  but  spare  the  willow  bend- 
ing, 

And  bide  a  wee  and  dinna  fret. 

Grief  sharper  sting  doth  borrow 
From  regret ; 
But  yesterday  is  gone,  and  shall  its  sorrow 
Unfit  us  for  the  present  and  the  morrow  ? 

Nay;  bide  a  wee  and  dinna  fret. 


An  over-anxious  brooding 
Doth  beget 
A  host  of  fears  and  fantasies  deluding ; 
Then,  brother,  lest  these  torments  be  intruding, 
Just  bide  a  wee  and  dinna  fret. 

—  Every  Other  Saturday. 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


283 


ECONOMICAL  MENUS  FOR  ONE  WEEK  IN  APRIL. 

Family  of  Three.      Cost,  $3.00. 

"  Moderation  in  diet  seems  to  be  the  prerequisite  of  endurance." 


BREAKFAST. 

Quaker  Oats.     Stewed  Dates. 

Graham  Bread,  Toasted. 

Coffee. 

D  INNER. 

Asparagus  Loaf,  Butter  Sauce. 

Parker-House    Rolls   (Entire    Wheat) 

(reheated). 

Tapioca  with  Figs,  Milk. 

Tea. 

supper. 

Rice  and  Milk. 

Toasted  Bread.      Fruit,  Stewed.     • 


BREAKFAST. 

Old  Gristmill  Toasted  Wheat. 

Orange  Marmalade. 

Buckwheat  Griddle  Cakes. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Mutton  Stew  (three  fore-quarter  Chops). 

New  Beets. 

Chocolate  Blanc-mange  (Cornstarch). 

Tea. 

SUPPER. 

Rice  with  Bacon. 

Wafers.  Cocoa. 


BREAKFAST. 

Barley  Crystals,  Baked  Bananas. 

Bacon.     Stewed  Potatoes. 

Rye-Meal  Muffins. 

Tea, 

DINNER. 

Salt  Codfish  with  Cheese. 

Baked  Potatoes. 

Beet  Greens. 

Bread  Pudding  with  Meringue. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

SUPPER. 

Toasted  Muffins. 

Dried  Beef.      .        Stewed  Fruit. 

Crackers.         Tea. 


BREAKFAST. 

Wheatlet  with  Seedless  Raisins. 

Eggs  Scrambled  with  Bits  of  Bacon. 

Boston  Brownbread  (toasted). 

Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Hamburg  Steak. 

Macaroni,  Tomatoes,  and  Cheese. 

Cole-slaw. 

Sliced  Oranges.     Bread  and  Butter. 

Coffee. 

SUPPER. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup.     Croutons. 

Rhubarb  Baked  with  Figs.  Tea. 


BREAKFAST. 

Wheatena  with  Fruit. 

Bread  Rolls  (reheated). 

Cocoa. 

DINNER. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

Baked  Fish  Roes.  Pickled  Beets. 

Graham  Bread. 

Dried   Peaches,  Stewed,  and  Moulded  in 

Junket. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

SUPPER. 

Canned-Tomato-and-Cheese  Pudding. 

Bread  and  Butter. 

Stewed  Fruit.  Tea. 


BREAKFAST. 

Shredded- Wheat  Biscuit  with  Tomato. 

Smoked  Fish.      Cornmeal  Muffins. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Salt  Codfish.    Boiled  Potatoes. 

Egg  Sauce.  Beet  Greens. 

Graham  Raisin  Pudding. 

Lemon  Sauce.  Tea. 

SUPPER. 

Toasted  Muffins. 

Cheese  Patties. 
Pudding  (reheated),  Lemon  .Sauce. 
Tea. 


BREAKFAST. 

Petti  John's  Breakfast  Food, 

Milk. 

Toast.    Orange  Marmalade. 

Cereal  Coffee. 


DINNER. 

Dried  Beef  in  Cream  Sauce. 

Cold  Beet  Greens. 

Fresh  Fruit. 

Tea. 


SUPPER. 

Beans  Baked  with  Tomato. 

Boston  Brownbread. 

Cole-slaw. 

Coffee. 


284 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


SEASONABLE  MENUS  FOR  EASTER  WEEK. 

\  man  that  would  thrive  must  ask  his  wife's  leave. —  Gaelic  Proverb. 


BREAKFAST. 

Gluten  Grits,  Cream. 

Calf's  Liver  Broiled  with  Bacon. 

Eggs  in  the  Shell. 

White  Hashed  Potatoes.  Radishes. 

Entire- Wheat  Biscuit  (Baking-Powder). 

Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER  (Guests). 

Consomme,  Egg  Balls. 

Timbales  of  Shad  Roe,  Tomato  Sauce. 

Saddle  of  Mutton,  Mint  Sauce. 

Banana  Fritters,  Currant-Jelly  Sauce. 

New  String  Beans.  Glazed  Potatoes. 

Spinach-and-Egg  Salad. 

Lemon  Sherbet.     Cake.     Cafe  Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Wafers. 

Cocoa,  Whipped  Cream. 


BREAKFAST. 

Quaker  Oats,  Baked  Bananas,  Milk. 

Corned  Beef  in  Cream  Sauce  au  Gratin. 

Hashed  Potatoes. 

Virginia  Spoon  Corn  Cake.     Tea. 

LUNCH  EOT*  (Guests). 

(Green  Color  Scheme.) 

Strawberries  au  Naturel,  Sugar. 

Brook  Trout,  Fried.  Cucumbers. 

Rolls. 

Sweetbreads  in  Swedish  Timbale  Cases. 

Asparagus  Loaf. 

Watercress-and-Egg  Salad. 

Sultana  Roll  with  Claret  Sauce. 

White  Cake,  Pistachio  Decorations. 

Cafe  Noir. 

SUPPER. 

Yeast  Rolls  (reheated).     Tea.     Cocoa. 


BREAKFAST. 

Wheatena,  Milk. 

Shirred  Eggs.     Corned-Beef  Hash. 

Toasted  Brownbread. 

Oranges. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Oysters  Sauted  with  Bacon. 
Cheese  Patties.  Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Consomme,  Macaroni. 

Cold  Mutton  Sliced  Thin. 

Mashed  Potatoes.     Kornlet  Custard. 

Lettuce-and-Radish  Salad. 

Baked  Figs  and  Rhubarb. 

Cake.     Tea. 


BREAKFAST. 

Old  Gristmill  Rolled  Wheat,  Cream. 

Mutton,  Creole  Style. 

Bread  and  Butter.        Fruit. 

Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Sardines,  Crackers.  Rhubarb  Pie. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Mutton  Broth  with  Barley. 

Boiled  Cod,  Pickle  Sauce. 
Boiled  Potatoes.  Boiled  Onions. 

Cheese  Souffle.     Dandelion  Salad. 
Entire-Wheat  -  Bread  -  and  -  Butter  Sand- 
wiches. 
Black  Coffee. 


BREAKFAST. 

Barley  Crystals,  Stewed  Fruit,  Cream. 

Eggs  Poached  in  Dariole  Moulds. 

Stewed  Tomatoes.      Popovers.      Coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Clam  Chowder. 

Entire- Wheat  Bread  and  Butter. 

Baked  Rhubarb  and  Dates. 

Neufchatel  Cheese.      Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 
Cream  of  Watercress. 

Fillet  of  Veal,  Roasted. 

Potatoes,  Franconia  Style. 

Salsify  in  Cream  Sauce. 

New  Beets  Stuffed  with  Cucumbers. 

French  Dressing.  Maple  Custard. 

Cake.  Coffee. 


BREAKFAST. 

Shredded-Wheat  Biscuit,  Cream. 

Salt-Codfish  Balls,  Bacon. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

Waffles,  Maple  Syrup.  Tea. 

LUNCHEON. 

Macaroni  Croquettes,  Tomato  Sauce. 

Bananas  and  Oranges  Sliced. 

Bread  and  Butter.     Cereal  Coffee. 

DINNER. 

Cream-of-French-Bean  Soup. 

Planked  Shad.  Mashed  Potato. 

Onions  in  Creamed  Sauce. 

Lettuce-and-Tomato-Jelly  Salad,  Boiled 

Dressing. 

Cheese  Cakes. 

Rhubarb  Baked  with  Prunes.     Cafe  Noir. 


BREAKFAST. 

Cerealine  Flakes,  Cream. 

Mutton  Chops. 

Baked  Potato  Cakes. 

Oatmeal  Muffins. 

Oranges.     Cereal  Coffee. 


LUNCHEON. 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

Wheat  -  Meal   Bread, 

Toasted. 

Stewed  Fruit. 

Tea. 


DINNER. 

Veal  Broth  with  Vegetables. 

Escalloped  Veal. 

Spinach  with  Eggs. 

Lettuce-and  New  Onion 

Salad. 

Chocolate  Bavariose. 

Cafe  Noir. 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZIA^E. 


285 


IN  REFERENCE  TO  ECONOMICAL  MENUS. 


Riverside,  Cal.,  Feb.  24,  1900. 
Dear  Editor, —  In  the  next  issue  of  your 
magazine  will  you  kindly  tell  us  how  a  family 
of  two  or  three,  buying  one  quart  of  milk  per 
day,  may  live  on  $2.50  or  $3.00  per  week,  and 
have  good,  wholesome  food  ?  Please  give 
menus  and  recipes.  We  wish  to  live  on  this 
sum,  but  do  not  know  how  to  set  about  it. 

We  are  quite  in  the  dark  as  to  the 
age,  occupation,  and  environments  of 
this  family,  and  are  unacquainted,  also, 
with  the  markets  of  California,  but 
trust  that  the  menus  given,  and  based 
on  the  higher  prices  that  prevail  here, 
may  not  cost  more  in  California  than 
the  sum  specified. 

We  are  pleased  to  receive  such  let- 
ters, and  deplore  our  inability  to  be 
more  explicit  as  to  just  what  dishes 
many  a  housekeeper  should  choose  in 
order  that  her  family  may  be  scientifi- 
cally and  well  fed.  Every  housekeeper, 
no  matter  how  much  money  she  may 
have  at  her  disposal,  needs  be  well 
founded  in  the  principles  that  underlie 
the  science  of  cookery;  that  is,  she 
needs  understand  food  values,  and 
how  to  cook  starch  and  albumen,  so 
as  to  retain  the  full  value  of  each ;  and 
she  must  acquire  the  art  of  flavoring 
cheap  materials  so  as  to  make  them 
palatable.  (See  first  answer  under 
"  Queries  and  Answers.")  No  house- 
keeper should  depend  too  implicitly 
on  any  menu  written  for  general  use; 
they  are  to  be  studied  and  adapted  to 
individual  families.  Each  one  must 
work  them  out  independent  of  any 
other ;  for  the  needs  of  no  two  families, 
of  no  two  individuals  in  the  same  family, 
are  exactly  like.  There  must  be  method 
in  the  expenditure  of  money  or  else  it 
will   not  hold   out   through  the   week. 


If  possible,  money  for  a  month's  sup- 
plies should  be  at  hand,  and  a  strict 
account  of  expenses  kept.  For  the 
housekeeper  with  small  income,  book- 
keeping is  quite  as  essential  as  for  the 
wholesale  merchant.  Much  depends 
upon  cooking  just  enough  and  no 
more.  In  many  households  more  ce- 
reals and  potatoes  are  wasted  daily 
than  are  eaten.  Why  cook  six  pota- 
toes when  only  two  will  be  eaten  fresh, 
and  less  than  two  when  as  a  left-over  ? 
Recipes,  we  think,  are  not  the  items 
most  essential  to  our  inquirer.  She 
needs  suggestions,  and  then  to  ac- 
quaint herself  with  the  general  formu-  9 
las  "for  dishes  of  the  several  classes 
that  she  will  most  affect.  Let  her 
spend  no  one  of  her  precious  quarters 
for  the  hundred  and  one  little  things 
suggested  by  the  recipe-maker.  Such 
a  housekeeper  must  buy  food  stuffs, 
but  not  food  adjuncts.  In  California, 
where  fruits  are,  presumably,  cheap, 
this  luxury  may  be  indulged  in ;  but. 
if  these  be  purchased,  the  varieties 
having  the  greatest  food  value  —  as  figs, 
dates,  raisins,  and  bananas — should 
be  selected.  These,  with  the  various 
grains  in  the  form  of  mush,  wafer, 
biscuit,  rolls,  and  bread,  will  be  in 
chief  demand.  Let  sugar  be  eaten  in 
its  natural  state,  and  not  mixed  with 
fat  in  the  form  of  cake  or  pies.  Fresh 
vegetables,  perfectly  cooked  and  sea- 
soned, fish  or  meat  occasionally,  an 
egg  or  cheese  delicately  cooked,  milk, 
with  rice,  or  in  cream  soups,  —  these 
common  articles,  simple  yet  perfectly 
cooked,  so  that  every  morsel  can  be 
eaten,  will  leave  nothing  to  be  desired 
in  the  way  of  new  and  fanciful  recipes. 


286 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


There  is  no  waste  in  fresh  eggs,  and 
these,  if  they  be  not  too  high  in  price, 
may  be  added,  occasionally,  to  many 
a  vegetable  dish,  to  increase  its  food 
value,  as  the  tomato  custard,  the  egg 
sauce,  with  the  salt  codfish,  and  the 
graham  pudding. 

In  institutions  where  large  numbers 
are  fed.  and  provisions  are  bought  at 
wholesale,  eleven  cents  a  day  for  each 
individual  often  supplies  fresh  meat 
four  times  per  week.  In  these  menus 
we  have  not  given  meat  as  frequently 
as  this,  because,  by  substituting  dishes 
enriched  with  eggs,  one  can  provide 
more  dainty  articles  than  can  be  pro- 
duced from  the  coarser  cuts  of  beef, 
which,  to  be  tender,  must  be  served  in 
stews  or  "  pot  roasts."  We  suspect 
our  "  trio  "  are  young  people,  who  do 
not  require  heavy  dishes.  If  the  $3.00 
be  supplied  on  Saturday  night,  for  the 
coming  week,  a  dollar  should  be  laid 
aside  for  the  milk  and  butter ;  then, 
with  paper  and  pencil,  the  items  de- 
sired for  the  week  can  be  jotted  down, 
and  the  menu  made  out  accordingly, 
subject  to  modifications  later  on. 
Bacon  is  wholesome,  and,  if  this  be 
used  at  breakfast  and  for  cooking 
many  articles,  twenty-five  cents  might 
be  deducted  from  the  dollar  set  aside 
for  butter  and  milk. 

On  Friday  take  the  whole  pieces  of 
tomato  from  the  can  for  breakfast. 
Cut  the  pieces  of  tomato,  season  as 
desired,  and  spread  upon  the  shredded 
biscuit,  split,  moistened  slightly,  and 
heated  in  the  oven.  Use  the  rest  of 
the  can  with  the  beans  on   Saturday. 

All    the   recipes  given   under    these 
menus  should  be  divided  for  a  family 
of  three. 
Canned  Tomatoes  with  Savory  Custard. 

Mix   together   one  pint  of  tomatoes 


(canned),  one-fourth  a  cup  of  grated 
bread  crumbs  (centre  of  loaf  passed 
through  a  colander),  one  tablespoonful 
of  fine-chopped  onion,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ; 
pour  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  ;  beat 
four  eggs,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  cup 
and  a  half  of  milk ;  stir  over  hot  water 
until  thickened  slightly,  pour  over  the 
tomato  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  until  set  <  about  three-fourths  an 
hour). 

Canned-  Tomato-and-  Cheese  Pudding. 

Mix  one  pint  of  canned  tomatoes, 
one  cup  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  one- 
third  a  cup  of  grated  cheese  ^American 
factory  cheese),  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  pour  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish.  Mix  one-third 
a  cup  of  bread  crumbs  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  spread 
over  the  top.  and  bake  about  twenty 
minutes. 

Rice  with  Bacon. 

Parboil  three-fourths  a  cup  of  rice 
in  boiling  water  five  minutes  ;  drain 
on  a  sieve.  Pour  boiling  water  over 
one-fourth  a  pound  of  bacon,  then 
drain  and  cut  into  inch  pieces;  saute 
to  a  light-yellow  color ;  add  the  rice, 
three  cups  of  stock  or  water,  and  a 
dash  of  pepper.  Let  simmer  until 
tender,  then  add  a  cup  of  well-reduced 
tomato  pure'e  (tomatoes  passed  through 
a  sieve  and  simmered  until  thick),  mix 
thoroughly,  turn  in  a  mound  on  a  dish, 
and  arrange  curls  of  fried  bacon  on 
the  sides  of  the  mound. 

Fish  Roes.  Baked. 

Strew  chopped  onion  in  a  baking- 
dish,  put  in  the  roes,  season  with  lemon 
juice,  salt  and  pepper,  then  strew  over 
them   more   onion    and   a   few  bits  of 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


287 


butter  or  bacon  ;  add  a  little  hot  water, 
cook  in  the  oven  twenty  minutes,  bast- 
ing occasionally ;  drain  off  the  liquid, 
stir  into  this  a  tablespoonful,  each,  of 
butter  and  flour  creamed  together,  let 
boil,  then  pour  over  the  roes  ;  sprinkle 
with  one-third  a  cup  of  fine  bread 
crumbs  stirred  into  a  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter  or  bacon  fat  and  return 
to  the  oven  for  about  ten  minutes. 
Serve  in  the  baking-dish. 

Salt  Codfish  with  Cheese. 
(Boston  Cooking-School.) 

Pick  in  pieces  and  soak  in  lukewarm 
water  one  cup  and  a  half  of  codfish ; 
drain  as  soon  as  soft.  Melt  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  and  a  few  grains  of 
paprica.  Pour  on  gradually  one  cup 
and  a  half  of  milk,  let  boil  five  or  six 
minutes,  add  the  fish  (dried  by  wring- 
ing in  a  cloth)  and  half  a  cup  of  grated 
cheese.  When  the  cheese  is  melted, 
add  one  egg  slightly  beaten. 

Cheese  Patties. 
With  a  round  cutter  stamp  out  four 
rounds  from  thick  slices  of  bread. 
Scoop  out  a  piece  from  the  centre  of 
each  round,  so  that  it  shall  form  a 
shallow  cup.  Brush  with  butter  and 
brown  in  the  oven ;  or  dip  them  into 
the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  strew  with 
crumbs,  and  fry  to  a  delicate  brown. 
Boil  half  a  cup  of  water  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter ;  beat  into  it  a 
generous  half -cup  (four  ounces)  of 
grated  cheese,  add  a  dash  of  salt  and 
pepper,  and  let  stand  over  hot  water, 
while  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  is 
stirred  in ;  add  half  a  cup  of  grated 
bread.  Put  the  mixture  into  the  cups 
of  bread,  reheat  in  the  oven,  and  serve 
on  a  napkin. 


Baked  Beans  with  Tomato  Sauce. 
Let  one  pint  of  pea  beans  soak  over 
night  in  cold  water ;  wash,  drain,  and 
set  to  cook  in  plenty  of  cold  water ; 
when  the  water  boils,  drain  the  beans 
once  more,  then  cook  until  tender  in 
plenty  of  boiling  water,  adding  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  soda  a  short  time  before 
removing  them  from  the  fire ;  drain, 
and  rinse  in  plenty  of  water.  Pour 
part  of  the  beans  into  the  beanpot,  put 
in  a  piece  of  fat  salt  pork  with  rind 
scored  for  slicing,  and  pour  above  the 
rest  of  the  beans.  Mix  one  teaspoon- 
ful  and  a  half  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
of  mustard,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
molasses ;  pour  over  these  a  little  hot 
tomato  pulp  from  a  can  of  tomatoes 
pressed  through  a  sieve,  and,  when 
thoroughly  mixed,  pour  into  the  re- 
mainder of  the  tomato  pulp  that  has 
been  heated  with  half  an  onion  and 
half  a  green  pepper  from  which  the 
seeds  have  been  taken.  Pour  the  to- 
mato over  the  beans,  cover,  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven  about  six  hours.  When 
cooked,  the  beans  should  be  tender  yet 
whole,  and  surrounded  by  the  tomato 
thickened,  by  cooking,  to  the  consist- 
ency of  a  sauce. 

Rhubarb  Baked  with  Figs. 
Cover  well-washed  bag  figs  with  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  until  the  water  is 
nearly  evaporated.  Cut  a  pound  of 
rhubarb,  unpeeled  if  young,  otherwise 
peeled,  in  inch  pieces  ;  put  a  layer  into 
a  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  sugar,  add  a  few  figs,  then  a 
layer  of  rhubarb,  sugar,  and  figs,  until 
a  pound  of  rhubarb  and  half  a  pound 
of  figs  are  used  ;  put  in  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  hot  water  and  bake,  covered,  in 
a  slow  oven  until  the  rhubarb  is  tender 
but  unbroken.  Dates  or  raisins  may 
take  the  place  of  the  figs. 


288 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


IN  REFERENCE   TO  SEASONABLE  MENUS. 


The  markets  in  the  large  cities  of 
this  country,  following  the  prevailing 
custom  in  England  and  on  the  conti- 
nent of  Europe,  are  handsomely  dec- 
orated for  the  holidays  of  Christmas 
and  Easter.  Strange  as  it  may  seem, 
the  stalls  of  the  venders  of  beef,  mut- 
ton, and  poultry,  in  their  gala  decora- 
tions, present  a  very  attractive  picture 
to  the  eye.  Huge  sides  of  beef,  and 
whole  carcases  of  mutton,  form  the 
background  for  the  decorations  of  ever- 
greens, paper  rosettes,  burnished  horns, 
and  electric  lights.  Closer  examina- 
tion reveals  long  strips  of  ribbon  woven 
under  and  over  raised  strips  of  fat, 
something  after  the  fashion  of  the 
basket-work  so  familiar  to  kindergarten 
children.  In  other  stalls,  hams,  sau- 
sage, bacon,  lard,  and  young  pigs,  all 
gaily  decorated,  are  set  off  by  a  back- 
ground of  lights  and  greenery. 

At  the  poulterers',  at  Eastertide,  little 
live  chickens  and  ducklings,  with  downy 
feathers,  take  the  place  of  honor  held 
by  the  caged  sheep  in  the  mutton  stalls 
at  Christmas. 

The  fruit  and  vegetable  stalls  need 
no  ribbons  or  rosettes  to  render  them 
attractive ;  for  can  they  not  display 
rosettes  of  lettuce,  endive,  and  cauli- 
flower, aigrettes  of  pineapple,  stream- 
ers of  bananas,  and  masses  of  every 
color  of  the  rainbow  ? 

If  the  housekeeper  wishes  to  follow 
traditional  lines  at  Eastertide,  she  can 
quickly  select  her  purchases  for  the 
Sunday  dinner ;  for  have  not  spring 
lamb,  with  mint  sauce  and  green  peas 
(although,  the  mint  sauce  is  probably  a 
comparatively  recent  innovation),  been 
considered,  time  out  of  mind,  the  most 
recherche  Easter  dinner?  But  lamb  two 
months  old   is  dear   at   any  time,  and 


dearer  still  are  peas  in  April,  grown  in 
a  hothouse.  And  the  flavor  of  neither 
the  lamb  nor  the  peas  will,  in  general, 
compensate  for  the  price ;  so  a  roast  of 
mutton, —  saddle,  crown,  or  leg, —  and 
new  string  beans,  grown  more  easily 
than  peas,  will  more  often  prove  in 
evidence  on  this  day.  m  Eggs  in  some 
form  usually  appear,  and  we  have  ob- 
served this  custom  in  the  soup  and  in 
the  salad.  The  potatoes,  pared,  and 
left  standing  some  time  in  cold  water, 
are  to  be  boiled  ten  minutes,  then 
cooked  and  basted  with  the  meat.  All 
superfluous  fat  should  be  removed  from 
the  mutton ;  salt-pork  fat,  bacon  fat,  or 
beef  "  drippings  "  should  be  used  for 
basting. 

For  the  luncheon  on  Wednesday  a 
green  color  scheme  may  be  carried  out, 
relieved,  in  some  of  the  courses,  by  a 
touch  of  color.  For  the  first  course 
select  five  or  six  choice  strawberries 
for  each  service,  wash  and  dry  them 
carefully,  then  place  them,  with  stems 
and  sepals  uppermost,  in  the  centre  of 
a  pretty  plate,  with  a  narrow  circle  of 
powdered  sugar  about  them.  Cucum- 
bers, with  French  dressing,  should  be 
passed  after  the  trout  is  served.  On 
account  of  the  warmth  of  the  fish  plates, 
the  bread  -  and  -  butter  plates  may  be 
used  as  a  receptacle  for  the  salad.  A 
few  drops  of  onion  juice  may  be  used 
in  the  dressing,  and  a  sprinkling  of  fine- 
chopped  parsley  will  not  come  amiss. 

The  edge  of  the  Swedish  timbale 
cases  may  be  brushed  over  with  white 
of  egg  before  being  filled,  and  then 
dipped  in  fine -chopped  parsley,  thus 
giving  the  bit  of  green  to  this  dish  ;  to 
lessen  the  expense  of  this  dish,  calves' 
brains  may  be  substituted  for  a  part  of 
the  sweetbreads. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


289 


RECIPES  USED  IN  PRECEDING  MENUS- 

(In  all  recipes  where  flour  is  used,  unless  otherwise  stated,  the  flour  is  measured 
after  sifti?ig  once.  When  flour  is  measured '  by  cups,  the  cup  is  filled  with  a 
spoon  and  a  level  cupful  is  meant.  A  tablespoonful  or  a  teaspoonful  of  any 
designated  material  is  a  level  spoonful  of  such  material?) 


CUPS  AND  SPOONS  SHOWING   METHOD  OF  MEASURING. 


Meat  Pie  with  Potato  Crust. 
Cut  cold  roast  beef  into  thin  slices, 
removing  the  fat  and  gristle  ;  cover  the 
bones  and  trimmings  with  cold  water ; 
add  a  few  slices  of  onion  and  carrot, 
and  a  stalk  of  celery,  if  at  hand ;  let 
simmer  several  hours ;  strain  off  the 
broth  and  simmer  in  it  the  slices  of 
beef,  until  they  are  perfectly  tender. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour 
into  a  baking-dish;  cover  with  a  round 
of  potato  crust  in  which  there  is  an 
opening ;  bake  until  the  crust  is  done 
(about  fifteen  minutes). 

POTATO    CRUST. 

Sift  together  two  cups  of  flour,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  two  level 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder ;  with 
the  tips  of  the  fingers  work  in  half  a 
cup  of  shortening,  and  then  one  cup  of 
cold  mashed  potato  ;  add  milk  to  make 
a  soft  dough,  turn  on  to  the  board, 
handle  as  little  as  possible,  and  pat 
and  roll  out  to  fit  the  dish. 


Mutton,   Creole  Style. 

Cook  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
green  pepper  and  half  a  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  onion  in  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  three  minutes ;  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
brown  stock  (made  from  the  trimmings 
of  the  meat,  with  vegetables),  and  half 
a  cup  of  tomato  pulp.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  a  grating  of  horseradish, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Re- 
heat in  this  sauce  thin  slices  of  cold 
mutton,  and  pour  over  a  bed  of  cooked 
macaroni. 

Moulded  Sweetbread-and- Cucumber 

Salad. 

(Boston  Cooking-School.) 

Simmer  one  small  pair  of  sweetbreads 
twenty  minutes  in  boiling,  salted,  acid- 
ulated water,  with  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  a 
slice  of  onion,  and  a  blade  of  mace. 
Cool,  and  cut  into  dice  ;  there  should  be 
three-fourths  a  cup.  Soak  one-fourth 
a   tablespoonful   of  gelatine  in   half   a 


290 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and  dis- 
solve in  a  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of 
boiling  water ;  add  one  tablespoonful 
and  a  half  of  lemon  juice,  and  half  a 
cup  of  cream  beaten  thick.  Add  the 
cubes  of  sweetbread,  one-fourth  a  cup 
of  cucumber  cubes,  and  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Turn  into  moulds,  chill, 
and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  with  French 
dressing. 

Tapioca  Griddle  Cakes. 
Stir  half  a  cup  of  fine  tapioca  into 
a  cup  of  boiling  water ;  add  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  continue  stirring 
until  the  tapioca  is  transparent ;  then 
add  one  cup  of  cold  milk,  a  well-beaten 
egg,. and  a  cup  of  flour,  sifted  with  two 
level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 
Bake  as  soon  as  mixed,  and  serve. 

Rusks. 

(Boston  Cooking-School.) 
Dissolve  two  yeastcakes  in  half  a 
cup  of  scalded  milk,  cooled  to  luke- 
warm ;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  one.  cup  of  flour ;  cover,  and  let 
rise  until  very  light ;  add  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  sugar,  one  -  fourth  a  cup  of 
melted  butter,  three  unbeaten  eggs, 
and  enough  flour  to  handle.  Shape 
as  finger  rolls,  and  place  close  together 
on  a  buttered  sheet  in  parallel  rows, 
two  inches  apart;  let  rise  again,  then 
bake  about  twenty  minutes.  When 
cold  cut  diagonally  in  slices  half  an 
inch  thick,  and  brown  evenly  in  the 
oven. 

New  Yo?'k  Gingerbread. 
(Boston  Cooking  School.) 
Cream  a  scant  cup  of  butter  and 
add,  gradually,  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  and  a  half  of  yellow  ginger. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  until  thick, 
add,  gradually,  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
powdered  sugar ;  combine  the  two  mix- 


tures and  then  add  the  whites  of  five 
eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  sift  over  all  one 
level  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder. 
Bake  in  a  deep  cake  pan  one  hour. 

Grape  Bom  be. 
(Boston  Cooking-School.) 
Line  a  melon  mould  with  grape  ice ; 
fill    the    centre    with    whipped    cream, 
sweetened  and    flavored,  and  pack  in 
ice  and  salt  two  hours. 
Grape  Ice. 
Boil  two  cups  of  sugar  and  four,  cups 
of  water  twenty  minutes ;  let  cool,  and 
add   one-fourth   a   cup  of  lemon  juice, 
three-fourths  a  cup  of  orange  juice,  and 
one   pint   of   grape   juice.      Strain  and 
freeze. 

Coffee  Bo  in  be. 
(Boston  Cooking-School.) 
Mix  three-fourths  a  cup  of  ground 
coffee  with  the  white  of  one  egg ;  add 
half  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  six  cups 
of  boiling  water,  and  let  boil  three  min- 
utes ;  add  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar ; 
strain,  cool,  and  freeze.  Line  a  mould 
with  the  mixture,  and  fill  with  whipped 
cream,  sweetened  and  flavored.  Pack 
in  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt  three 
hours. 

Pineapple  Pudding  Meringue. 
(Boston  Cooking-School.) 

Cut  stale  cake  in  one-third  inch 
slices  and  moisten  with  wine.  Cover 
with  grated  pineapple;  so  continue 
using  cake  and  pineapple  until  the 
mound  stands  about  as  high  as  a  pine- 
apple. Cover  all  with  a  meringue, 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  delicately 
browned  (about  eight  minutes). 
Meringue. 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  until 
stiff,  and  add,  gradually,  four  table- 
spoonful of  powdered  sugar.  Fold  in 
three    tablespoonfuls    and    a    half    of 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


291 


sugar  and  flavor  with  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  lemon  extract. 
Broiled  Mackerel,  Maitre  d^ Hotel  Sauce. 
Cut  off  the  fins,  spilt  open,  dress, 
and  remove  the  backbone  ;  brush  over 
with  melted  butter  or  oil,  and  broil  in 
a  well-oiled  broiler  over  a  slow  fire  ; 
dish  on  a  hot  platter  on  a  platform  of 
mashed  potato  shaped  to  the  fish. 
Spread  over  the  fish  a  partly  melted 
maitre  d'hotel  sauce  ;  garnish  with  let- 
tuce and  slices  of  lemon.  Serve  sliced 
cucumbers  with  this  dish. 


into  three,  and  trim  with  a  wet  knife. 
Butter  a  frying-pan,  put  in  the  fish, 
season  with  lemon  juice,  salt,  and  pep- 
per, cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and 
cook  in  the  oven  about  ten  minutes ; 
arrange  the  pieces,  one  overlapping  an- 
other, down  the  centre  of  a  platform  of 
hot  mashed  potato  (see  "  Broiled  Mack- 
erel, Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce").  Serve 
with  the  sauce  poured  over  the  fish, 
or  serve  the  sauce  separately. 

PARSLEY    SAUCE. 

Cook  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in 


A 


BROILED  MACKEREL,   MAITRE  D'HOTEL  SAUCE. 


MAITRE   D'HOTEL    SAUCE. 

Cream  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  cress  or  pars- 
ley, fine-chopped  and  wrung  dry  in  a 
cloth  ;  add  a  few  grains  of  pepper  and 
salt  and  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
lemon  juice. 
Fillets  of  Mackerel  with  Parsley  Sauce. 

Take  the  two  fillets  from  the  mack- 
erel, cut  each  into  two  pieces,  or,  if  large, 


two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to  a  light- 
yellow  color  ;  add  one  cup  and  a  fourth 
of  cold  water,  gradually,  and  stir  until 
the  sauce  has  boiled  five  or  six  minutes. 
Put  over  the  fire  a  handful  of  parsley 
in  cold  water,  with  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  soda  ;  when 
boiling,  strain  off  the  water  and  dry 
the  parsley  in  a  cloth,  mix  with  two 
tablespoonfuls    of    butter,    and    press 


92 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


through  a  sieve ;  mix  this  in  the  sauce 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream. 
Shad-Roe-and-  Cucumber  Salad. 
Cook  the  roe  of  a  shad  with  half  an 
onion  and  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  in  salted, 
acidulated  water,  twenty  minutes.  Let 
the  water  bubble  but  gently  on  one 
side  of  the  saucepan,  lest  the  mem- 
brane surrounding  the  eggs  be  broken 
during  cooking  ;  let  cool  in  the  water, 
drain,  and  when  cold  cut  in  slices ; 
cut  the  broken  slices  in  cubes,  marin- 


with  French  dressing,  inside  the  long 
sides  of  this  border  slices  of  dressed 
cucumber,  one  overlapping  another, 
and  on  the  top  of  the  salad  the  whole 
slices  of  roe,  one  overlapping  another. 
Garnish  the  roe  with  chillies. 
Cheese  Cakes. 
Pass  enough  cottage  cheese  through 
a  colander  to  make  one  cup  and  a 
half;  add  one-third  a  cup  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  one  table- 
spoonful   of   melted   butter,  the  grated 


SHAD-ROE-AND-CUCUMBER  SALAD. 


ate  with  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
oil,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  lemon  juice.  When  ready  to  serve, 
add  a  chilled  cucumber,  pared,  and  cut 
in  cubes,  and  mayonnaise  or  boiled 
dressing,  to  moisten  the  whole.  Rub 
the  salad  dish  with  the  cut  side  of  a 
clove  of  garlic,  dispose  the  salad,  in  a 
rectangular  shape,  upon  the  centre  of 
the  dish;  put  about  the  edge  of  the 
salad   heart  leaves   of  lettuce  dressed 


rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  three  eggs 
beaten  until  light,  and  half  a  cup  of 
currants,  and  citron  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Beat  until  smooth.  Line  small  tins 
with  pastry.  Fill  with  the  cheese  mix- 
ture, and  bake  about  fifteen  minutes,  or 
until  firm  to  the  touch  ;  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar,  and  serve  when  partly 
cooled.  The  currants  and  citron  may 
be  omitted,  and  the  cakes  served  with 
stewed  fruit,  or  with  uncooked  fruit, 
sliced,  and  sprinkled  with  sugar. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


293 


Saddle  of  Mutton,  Coasted. 
The  saddle  maybe  cut  either  with  or 
without  the  flank.  The  flank  is  more 
satisfactory  cooked  some  other  way,  but 
as  the  saddle  presents  a  better  appear- 
ance when  the  flank  is  retained,  it  is  of- 
ten rolled  up  on  each  side  and  kept  in 
place  by  stitches  in  three  or  four  places. 
If  the  flank  be  thus  rolled,  to  insure 
thorough  cooking,  this  side  of  the  sad- 
dle should  be  place  uppermost  —  that 
is,  to  the  greatest  heat  —  when  the  joint 


over  it  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  water,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sugar,  cover  closely,  and  let  stand 
in  a  cool  place  half  an  hour;  then  add 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  or  four  table- 
spoonfuls of  vinegar,  a  few  grains  of 
cayenne,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
If  lemon  juice  be  used,  add  but  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

Graham  Raisin  Pudding. 
Beat  one  egg,  add  a  cup  of  milk,  and 
stir   into    two    cups    of    coarse    entire- 


SADDLE  OF  MUTTON.     GARNISH  :  ASPARAGUS  AND  CARROT. 


is  first  put  into  the  oven.  All  super- 
fluous fat  should  be  removed.  Dredge 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour  ;  cook  from 
one  hour  and  three-fourths  to  two  hours 
and  a  half.  Garnish  with  rings  of  car- 
rot holding  asparagus  stalks.  Carve  in 
long  slices  parallel  with  the  backbone 
and  cut  down  to  the  rib  bones.  Let 
currant  jelly  accompany  the  dish. 
Mint  Sauce. 
Chop  the  leaves  and  tips  of  a  large 
bunch  of  mint  as  fine  as  possible,  pour 


wheat  flour  with  one-third  a  cup  of 
sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder 
sifted  together  ;  then  stir  in  one  cup  of 
raisins  seeded  and  cut  in  small  pieces ; 
steam  in  a  pail  or  in  baking-powder 
boxes.  Spice  may  be  added. 
Lemon  Sauce. 
Cook  a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  cornstarch,  thoroughly 
mixed  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  with  a 
piece  of  cinnamon   bark,  ten  minutes ; 


294 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


add  the   juice   of   a   lemon   and  a  few- 
grains  of  salt. 

Roman  Puddi?ig. 
Line  a  buttered  mould  with  boiled 
macaroni.  Cook  one-fourth  a  cup  of 
bread  crumbs  with  three-fourths  a  cup 
of  milk ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  a  cup  of  cold  chicken  chopped 
fine,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped 
ham,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  fine- 
chopped    green    pepper,    salt,   pepper, 


scalded  milk,  until  the  mixture  coats 
the  spoon ;  add  a  scant  half-cup  of 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  one  level 
tablespoonful  of  granulated  gelatine, 
softened  in  cold  water,  and  dissolved 
over  hot  water.  Beat  while  cooling 
over  ice  water,  and,  when  beginning  to 
set,  fold  in  one  cup  of  whipped  cream, 
measured  after  whipping ;  then  turn 
into  a  mould.  Serve,  unmoulded,  on 
lace  paper,  or  garnished  with  parsley. 


ROMAN   PUDDING. 


and  onion  juice  to  taste,  and  two  well- 
beaten  eggs;  turn  into  the  buttered 
mould  and  bake  standing  in  a  pan  of 
water  until  firm.  Serve  with  tomato 
or  brown  sauce,  flavored  with  a  few 
gratings  of  horseradish  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  lemon  juice.  Serve  a  few  bits  of 
macaroni   in  the  sauce. 

Cheese  Cream. 
Cook  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs 
with  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of    salt 
and   a   dash   of  paprica,   in    a   cup  of 


For  a  second  service,  fanciful  shapes 
may  be  cut  from  slices,  and  served, 
sprinkled  with  paprica,  on  rounds  of 
Boston  brown  or  graham  bread. 
Cocoanut  Sponge  Pudding. 
Pour  one  pint  of  hot  milk  over  one 
cup  of  grated  cocoanut  and  two  cups 
of  stale  bread  crumbs  ;  add  one  cup 
of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon, 
one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and 
the  yolks  of  three  well-beaten  eggs  ; 
when   thoroughly   mixed,    fold   in    the 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


295 


whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Bake  very  slowly  about  forty- 
five  minutes,  without  browning.  Dust 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  serve  hot  or 
cold. 

Sheep^s  Tongues  with  Asparagus. 
Cut  an  onion  and  half  a  carrot  in 
small  pieces  ;  sprinkle  part  of  these  in 
a  baking- dish;  above  them  put  six 
well-cleaned  sheep's  tongues,  with  the 
rest  of  the  vegetables  above  them  ; 
pour  in   a   little  water   or  stock,  cover, 


tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  flour 
creamed  together,  cook  ten  minutes, 
add  the  asparagus,  and  turn  into  the 
centre  of  the  ring.  There  should  be 
just  sauce  enough  to  hold  the  aspara- 
gus together,  and  no  more. 

Asparagus,  Spanish  Style. 
Tie  the  stalks,  from  which  the  coarse 
scales  have  been  removed,  in  a  bunch, 
and  cook,  standing  upright,  in  boiling 
salted  water,  with  the  tips  out  of  the 
water,  until  the  tips  are  tender ;  place 


SHEEP'S  TONGUES  WITH  ASPARAGUS. 


and  cook  until  tender.  Shape  a  ring 
of  mashed  potato  on  a  serving-dish, 
peel  off  the  skin,  and  trim  the  tongues 
of  all  unedible  portions,  then  range  the 
tongues  uniformly  upon  the  potato 
with  the  root  ends  resting  on  the  top 
of  the  potato  and  the  tip  upon  the 
plate.  Cut  the  tender  portion  of  a 
bunch  of  asparagus  in  small  pieces ; 
cook  the  tougher  pieces  first  in  a  little 
salted  water,  add  the  tips,  and,  when 
tender,  strain  off  the  water ;  stir  in  two 


in  a  serving-dish,  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  to  the 
water,  and  in  it  poach  three  or  four 
eggs,  as  desired  ;  place  the  eggs  on  top 
of  the  asparagus,  and  pour  over  the 
whole 

VINAIGRETTE    SAUCE. 

Mix  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  few  grains  of  pepper,  and  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  oil ;  then  add,  gradually, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  or 
vinegar.     A  teaspoonful,  each,  of  fine- 


296 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


chopped  parsley ;  capers,  and  cucum- 
ber pickles  may  be  added,  if  desired. 
Asparagus  Loaf. 
Cook  two  tablespoonfuls,  each,  of 
butter  and  flour  together;  add  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pep- 
per, and  one  cup  of  cream,  gradually ; 
when  boiling,  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  cold  chicken,  chopped  fine,  one 
cup  of  cooked  asparagus  tips,  and 
four  well  -  beaten  eggs  ;  turn  into  a 
mould,    or    an    earthen    bowl,   holding 


from  the  water  "before  tender  enough 
for  serving,  and  cooled,  close  together, 
so  that  but  little  of  the  filling  will  filter 
through  them  ;  then,  if  green-colored 
asparagus  has  been  selected,  the  dish 
will  present  the  desired  greenish  ap- 
pearance. 

BUTTER    SAUCE. 

To  each  fourth  a  cup  of  butter, 
melted  over  hot  water,  add  the  juice 
of  one  lemon  ;  or,  cook  together  two 
tablespoonfuls,    each,    of    butter    and 


ASPARAGUS  LOAF. 


one  pint,  thickly  buttered,  and  lined 
with  cooked  asparagus.  Cook  stand- 
ing in  a  dish  of  hot  water,  until  the 
centre  is  firm.  Do  not  allow  the  water 
about  the  mould  to  boil.  Let  stand  a 
few  moments,  after  removing  from  the 
oven,  then  invert  over  a  serving-dish. 
Serve  with  butter  sauce,  adding  a  few 
asparagus  tips  if  convenient. 

In  lining  the  mould  (an  earthen 
bowl  was  used  for  the  half-tone),  place 
the  cooked  asparagus  stalks,  removed 


flour ;  gradually  add  one  cup  of  cold 
water,  let  boil  six  or  eight  minutes, 
then  add,  gradually,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Salad  Chiffonade. 
Seed  two  green  peppers ;  boil  two 
or  three  minutes,  then  cut  in  Long 
shreds.  Cut  the  light  and  dark  colored 
leaves  of  a  head  of  lettuce  into  ribbons, 
separately.  Peel,  and  cut  three  toma- 
toes   in    slices,    and    then    in    shreds. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


297 


Remove  the  pulp  from  a  large  grape- 
fruit. Season  each  separately  with 
French  dressing,  and  group  separately 
upon  a  serving-dish,  having  the  light 
and  dark  lettuce  in  circles  about  the 
others. 

Salad  oj  Turnips  with  Asparagus  Tips. 
Cook  delicate  new  turnips  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender;  drain,  and  cut 
out  the  centres,  forming  cups.  When 
cold  sprinkle  the  cups  with  oil  and 
lemon  juice,  and  let  stand  for  a  little 


asparagus  without  vinegar,    and   omit 
the  garnish  of  radishes. 

Maple  Custard. 
Beat  five  eggs  until  a  full  spoonful 
can  be  taken  up ;  add  a  generous  half- 
cup  of  maple  syrup,  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  three  cups  of  milk; 
mix,  and  strain  into  buttered  cups. 
Bake,  standing  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
in  a  slow  oven,  until  the  centres  are 
firm.  When  thoroughly  chilled,  turn 
from  the  moulds  on  to  lace  paper. 


TURNIP-AND-ASPARAGUS  SALAD. 


time.  When  ready  to  serve,  arrange 
the  cups  on  shredded  lettuce,  and  fill 
with  cooked  asparagus  tips  that  have 
been  standing  in  a  French  dressing  an 
hour  or  more.  Mayonnaise  dressing 
may  be  substituted  if  desired,  but 
should  not  be  added  until  just  before 
serving.  Garnish  with  radishes  cut  to 
resemble  flowers.  New  beets  may  be 
used  instead  of  the  turnips.  These 
should  be  set  aside  in  vinegar  for  sev- 
eral   hours,  then  drained.     Dress  the 


Chocolate  Bavariose. 
Melt  two  ounces  of  chocolate  over 
hot  water,  stir,  and  cook  until  glossy 
with  one-fourth  a  cup,  each,  of  sugar 
and  water ;  add  to  one  cup  of  scalded 
milk ;  beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  mix 
with  one-fourth  a  cup  of  sugar,  and 
cook  in  the  hot  milk  and  chocolate  until 
the  spoon  is  coated;  add  one-fourth  a 
package  of  gelatine,  softened  in  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  strain 
into  a  dish  standing  in  ice  water  ;  flavor 


298 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract 
and  stir  constantly  until  the  mixture 
becomes  thick,  then  fold  in  one  cup  of 
double  cream  beaten  stiff.  Have  ready 
a  mould  (a  small  lard  or  cottolene  pail 
was  used  in  the  photograph)  with  a 
strip  of  paraffine  paper  or  cheese-cloth, 
about    four     inches     wide,    lining    the 


cool  place  for  an  hour  or  more.  When 
ready  to  serve,  decorate  with  a  cup  of 
cream,  sweetened  with  powdered  sugar, 
flavored  with  a  few  drops  of  vanilla, 
and  beated  until  stiff.  Use,  also,  a  few 
candied  cherries  with  other  fruit,  cut 
fine,  and  blanched  almonds,  sliced. 
The  fruit  is  a  pronounced  addition  to 


CHOCOLATE  BAVARIOSE. 


mould,  and  with  ends  coming  out  above 
the  top  as  if  lined  for  cake -baking. 
Arrange  lady-fingers,  a  little  distance 
apart,  around  the  inside  of  the  mould 
upon  the  lining  wherever  it  is  lined, 
turn  in  a  little  of  the  chocolate  mix- 
ture, then  straighten  the  cake,  when  it 
will  be  kept  in  place  by  the  filling. 
Fill    the   mould   and  stand    aside  in   a 


this  dish.  An  apricot  sauce  may  be 
substituted  for  the  cream  and  candied 
fruit. 

Apricot  Sauce. 
Boil  together  ten  minutes  half  a  cup 
of  apricot  marmalade,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  and  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  water;  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon ; 
pour  over  and  around  the  Bavariose. 


Queries  and  Answers. 


This  department  is  for  the  benefit  and  free  use  of  our  subscribers. 
Questions  relating  to  menus  and  recipes,  and  those  pertaining  to  culinary 
science  and  domestic  economics  in  general,  will  be  cheerfully  answered 
by  the  Editor.  Communicatio?is  for  this  department  must  reach  us  before  the  first  of  the  month 
preceding  that  in  which  the  answers  are  expected  to  appear.  Address  queries  to  Janet  M.  I/ill, 
Editor,  Boston  Cooking- School  Magazine,  3J2  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


In  response  to  our  request  for  a 
recipe  for  "springerlie,"  in  answer  to 
Query  327,  in  our  last  issue,  a  large 
number  of  recipes  have  been  received, 
for  which  we  return  sincere  thanks. 
It  is  very  evident  from  the  number  of 
the  recipes  received,  and  from  the 
"marginal  notes"  by  the  writers,  that 
this  confection  is  a  favorite  one  in 
many  households ;  and  we  are  pleased 
to  add  this  rather  "composite"  recipe 
to  our  list  of  choice  recipes. 
Springerlen. 

In  Southern  Germany,  these  little 
cakes  are  made  principally  at  Christ- 
mas, as  a  little  bonne  bouche  for  the 
children.  An  old-time  hausfrau  would 
use  pulverized  salts  of  hartshorn,  sifting 
about  a  teaspoonful  with  the  quantity 
of  flour  given  ;  and  she  would  also  pre- 
pare her  cake  dough  from  one  to  three 
weeks  in  advance  of  baking,  and  set  it 
away,  closely  covered,  in  a  cool  place : 
but  this  is  not  at  all  necessary,  and  of 
course  the  up-to-date  housewife,  know- 
ing the  deleterious  effect  of  hartshorn, 
would  use  baking-powder,  and  by  so 
doing  have  a  really  lighter  confection. 
Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
separately,  until  light  and  feathery,  then 
beat  together ;  add,  one  tablespoonful 
at  a  time,  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 
beating  incessantly ;  then  add  very 
slowly  one  pound  of  flour  sifted  with 
two    teaspoonfuls    of    baking-powder, 


and  the  zest  of  a  lemon.  Knead 
thoroughly  and  set  away  for  some 
hours  to  chill.  Roll  an  eighth  of  an 
inch  thick,  dust  with  flour,  then  press 
down  the  wooden  mould  very  hard 
upon  the  dough,  so  as  to  leave  a  perfect 
impress  of  the  figures  upon  the  dough. 
(These  figures  are  grotesque  represen- 
tations of  birds  and  animals,  and  the 
mould  stamps  figures  upon  from  four 
or  six  cakes  at  once.)  Cut  the  cakes 
apart,  put  them  on  a  floured  board,  and 
set  in  a  cold  place  for  a  day ;  then  bake 
on  a  buttered  tin  sprinkled  with  anise 
seed  until  of  a  light-straw  color.  Tin 
cutters  and  wooden  moulds  can  be 
purchased  at  German  stores,  and  at 
many  of  the  large  department  stores. 


Query  332. —  "  Kindly  give  names 
of  books  or  articles  helpful  to  one  wishing 
to  learn  of  the  composition  of  food,  how 
to  purchase  supplies,  etc." 

Books,  etc. ,  071  Composition  of  Food,  etc. 
Farmers'  Bulletin,  No.  23:  Foods; 
Nutritive  Value  and  Cost.  No.  28  : 
The  Chemical  Composition  of  Ameri- 
can Food  Materials.  No.  34  :  Meats  ; 
Composition  and  Cooking.  No.  46  : 
Dietary  Studies  in  New  York  City. 
No.  93  :  Sugar  as  Food.  These  may 
be  obtained  on  application  to  the 
United  States  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture, at  Washington,  D.  C. 


3°o 


THE  BOSTOX   COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


Query  $$$.  —  Miss  A.,  Lowell, 
Mass.:  "  Kindly  give  the  degree,  Fahr., 
to  which  sugar  should  be  boiled  for  boiled 
frosting" 

Temperature  for  Frosti?ig. 

Sugar  for  frosting  is  boiled  to  the 
11  thread  "  stage,  and  at  this  stage  the 
sugar  thermometer  registers  from  2150 
to  2 1 70  Fahr. 


Query  334. —  Mrs.  F.  f.  F.,  Den- 
ver, Col.:  " Recipes  for  kidney  stew,  and 
other  ways  of  cooking  kidneys,  oyster  loaf, 
and  sugared  peanuts ;  also  for  vegetables 
served  with  kidneys." 

Kidney  Stew. 

Kidneys  are  best  when  simply  saute'd; 
if  cooked  longer,  it  must  be  for  several 
hours,  or  they  will  be  very  tough.  Re- 
move the  fat  and  the  white  centres 
from  six  kidneys  of  sheep  or  lambs, 
then  soak  an  hour  in  salted  water. 
Dry,  and  cut  in  slices  half  an  inch 
thick  •*  dredge  with  flour,  and  saute' 
five  minutes  in  a  little  butter  or  drip- 
pings, with  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
onion.  Add  half  a  cup  of  water  or 
stock,  heat  to  the  boiling-point,  then 
let  stand  over  hot  water  six  or  eight 
minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
sherry,  or  one  tablespoonful  of  Worces- 
tershire sauce. 

Kidney-and-Mushroom  Saute. 

Cook  as  above,  saute'ing,  with  the 
slices  of  kidney,  half  a  cup  of  mush- 
room caps,  peeled  and  broken  into 
pieces.  Season  as  above,  or  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 
Broiled  Kidneys. 

Remove  the  skin  from  the  kidneys, 
and  cut  each  almost  through,  without 
dividing,  so  that,  when  opened,  it  will 
form   a   round.      Run  a  small    skewer 


through  each  pair,  to  keep  them  open, 
and  round  in  shape.  Soak  an  hour  in 
salted  water,  wipe  dry,  brush  over  with 
melted  butter,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  roll  in  sifted  bread  crumbs. 
Cook  in  a  double  broiler,  over  clear 
coals,  about  six  minutes,  spread  with 
creamed  butter,  squeeze  a  little  lemon 
juice  over  them,  and  dust  with  fine- 
chopped  parsley,  or  put  a  spoonful  of 
sauce  tartare  on  each  half-kidney. 
Vegetables  Served  with  Kidneys. 
Broiled  kidneys  may  rest  against  a 
mound  of  mashed  potato  or  creamed 
spinach.  Stewed  kidneys  may  be 
served  inside  a  border  of  duchess  po- 
tato or  creamed  spinach,  or  on  toast. 
Peas  or  tomatoes,  in  some  form,  are 
also  suitable  accompaniments  for  a 
dish  of  kidneys. 

Oyster  Loaf. 

Remove  a  slice  from  the  top  of  a 
well-shaped  loaf  of  bread,  and  take  out 
the  crumb  from  the  centre,  leaving  a 
wall  nearly  one  inch  thick  on  all  sides; 
brush  the  case,  inside  and  outside,  with 
melted  butter,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 
Use  as  a  case  in  which  to  serve  the  fol- 
lowing mixture :  Wash  one  quart  of 
oysters,  bring  quickly  to  the  boiling- 
point  in  their  own  liquor,  and  drain; 
make  a  thick  sauce  by  pouring  one 
pint  of  oyster  liquor  and  cream,  mixed, 
upon  half  a  cup  of  flour  and  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  butter,  cooked  together  ;  sea- 
son to  taste  with  salt,  paprica,  and 
lemon  juice,  then  reheat  the  oysters  in 
the  sauce. 

Sugared  Peanuts. 

Cook  a  cup  of  sugar  to  the  caramel 
stage ;  stir  in  one  cup  of  peanuts, 
shelled  and  skinned,  turn  on  to  an 
oiled  paper,  and  separate  the  peanuts 
while  they  are  hot. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


iOI 


Query  33 5. —  Mrs.  f.   C.   M.:  "In 

the  recipe  for  ?nouhied  halibut,  given  in 
the  October-  November  number  of  the 
Magazine,  the  number  of  whites  of  eggs 
to  be  used  was  not  given.  Kindly  let  me 
know  how  many  should  be  used." 
Moulded  Halibut. 
Pound  the  uncooked  fish  (one  pound 
in  weight),  after  the  skin  and  bones 
are  removed,  very  fine ;  then  pass 
through  a  sieve.  Cook  a  cup  of  bread 
crumbs  (centre  of  loaf  passed  through 
colander)  with  a  cup  of  cream  to  a 
smooth  paste,  and  add,  gradually,  to 
the  fish  pulp,  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  white 
pepper  or  paprica.  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  onion  juice  ;  then  fold  into  the 
mixture  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
three  eggs.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a 
buttered  mould,  and  bake,  standing  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water,  until  the  mixture 
is  firm.  Serve  with  hollandaise,  bech- 
amel, or  tomato  sauce. 


Query  336.  —  A.  L.  C,  Worcester, 
Mass. :  "Recipe  for  claret  sauce,  used  on 
sultana  roll,  at  the  Parker  House,  Bos- 
ton." 

Claret  Sauce. 

Boil  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  water  eight  minutes ;  cool 
slightly,  and  add  one-third  a  cup  of 
claret. 


Query  337.  —  F  E.  P.,  Davenport, 
la. :  "  Which  is  preferable  i?i  Boston 
brownbread, —  rye  flour  or  rye  meal? 
How  should  soda  be  added  to  mixtures, — 
with  the  flour,  or  dissolved  in  hot  water 7 
Is  tartaric  acid  ever  used  in  place  of 
cream-of  tartar,  in  connection  with  soda, 
and  how  does  it  compare  in  strength  1  " 
Rye  Meal  or  Rye  Flour  in  Brownbread. 

We  prefer  rye  meal  rather  than  rye 


flour  in  Boston  brownbread,  and  think 
it  is  more  generally  used  for  this  bread. 
Soda  in  Flour  Mixtures. 

Soda    should    be  pulverized,   sifted, 
then   measured,  and  sifted  again  with 
the  flour.     In  this  way  the  entire  effect 
of  the  leavening  process  is  obtained. 
Tartaric  Acid. 

Tartaric  acid  is  not  used  in  doughs 
in  the  place  of  cream-of-tartar,  because, 
being  soluble  in  cold  water,  it  would 
unite  with  the  soda,  to  some  extent, 
without  the  application  of  heat.  It  is 
stronger,  or  less  ''purified,"  than  cream- 
of-tartar. 


Query  338. —  A.  S.  I.,  Providence, 
R.  I.  :  "  Menu  for  a  luncheon  to  be 
given  the  middle  of  May,  the  cost  not  to 
exceed  Sz  for  each  person.  Do  not  care 
for  more  than  five  courses,  and  would 
like  dishes  that  can  be  prepared,  for  the 

most  part,  the  preceding  day." 

i 
MENU    I. 

Strawberries. 

Lobster  Chops,  Sauce  Tartare. 

Salad  Rolls. 

Glazed  Sweetbreads,  with  Puree  of  Peas. 

Lettuce-and-Asparagus  Salad. 

Pineapple  Bavariose,  Cake. 

Coffee. 

MENU     II. 

Salpicon   of   Strawberries  and   Pineapple  in 

Frappe  Cups. 

Shad-Roe  Croquettes,  Cucumbers. 

Broiled  Fillets  of  Beef,  Sauce  Bernaise. 

Lettuce-and-Tomato  Salad. 

Ginger  Parfait.  Wafers. 

Coffee. 

MENU    III. 

Bouillon.  Lobster  Patties. 

Chicken  Breasts,  with  Baked  Asparagus. 
Cress-and-Tomato  Salad. 

Brownbread  Sandwiches. 

Strawberry  Ice-Cream. 
Cocoanut  Cakes.         Coffee. 


;o2 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


G 

Clean  the  sweetbreads,  cook  in  salted, 
acidulated  water,  with  a  bay  leaf, 
twenty  minutes;  blanch  in  cold  water, 
and  let  stand  under  a  weight  until  cold. 
Cut  each  piece  in  halves,  lengthwise, 
and  saute  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  with  two  slices  of  onion,  and 
six  slices  of  carrot,  for  each  two  pair  of 
sweetbreads :  pour  off  the  butter,  add 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  rich  brown  stock, 
and  cook  in  the  oven  about  twenty 
minutes,  basting  often  until  well  glazed. 
Pass  two  cans  of  drained  peas  through 
a  sieve,  and  season  to  taste  with  salt, 
pepper,  sugar  and  butter ;  let  simmer 
until  dry.  then  shape,  on  individual 
plates,  into  nests,  using  pastry  bag  and 
tube.  Arrange  the  sweetbreads  in  the 
nests,  and  pour  about  them  three 
mushroom  caps,  peeled,  cut  in  shreds, 
saute'd  five  minutes  in  butter,  dredged 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and 
moistened  with  one  cup  of  cream  and 
the  gravy  left  in  the  pan  after  the 
sweetbreads  are  removed.  In  this 
menu  the  chops  may  be  made  ready 
for  frying,  the  sauce  made,  the  sweet- 
breads made  ready  to  glaze,  the  puree 
of  peas  prepared,  the  mushrooms 
cooked  in  the  sauce  (to  be  reheated 
in  the  dish  after  the  sweetbreads  are 
removed),  the  asparagus  cooked,  and 
the  dessert  made,  on  the  preceding 
day. 

Shad-Roc  Croquettes. 

Cook  the  roe  in  boiling  salted  and 
acidulated  water  fifteen  minutes,  drain 
and  mash.  For  each  pint  of  roe.  beat 
together  one-fourth  a  cup,  each,  of 
cornstarch  and  butter,  and  cook  in  a 
cup  and  a  half  of  hot  cream ;  cook  ten 
minutes,  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
half  a  teaspoonful.  each,  of  salt  and 
paprica,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  one 


tgg.  beaten,  the  roe.  and.  if  at  hand,  a 
few  mushrooms,  sauted  and  chopped ; 
cool  in  a  shallow  dish,  shape  into  cro- 
quettes, egg  and  bread-crumb,  and  fry 
in  deep  fat. 

Broiled  Fillets  of  Beef,  Sauce  Bernaise. 
Purchase    the    desired    quantity    of 
fillet,  cut  into  even-sized  rounds,  broil 
over  a  clear  fire,  then  spread  with 

BERNAISE    SAUCE. 

Reduce  two  tablespoonfuls  of  tarra- 
gon vinegar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
chopped  shallot  one-half  by  slow  cook- 
ing ;  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  a 
small  piece  of  butter,  and  stir  over  hot 
water  while  the  sauce  thickens,  adding 
butter,  a  small  piece  at  a  time,  until 
half  a  cup  in  all  has  been  used.  Season 
with  salt,  cayenne,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  parsley. 

Ginger  Barf  a  it. 

Boil  a  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup 
of  water  until  the  syrup  threads;  pour 
on  to  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  un- 
til  foamy,  beat  until  cold,  then  add  the 
juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  cup  of  preserved 
ginger  pounded  in  a  mortar,  with  a 
little  of  the  syrup,  to  a  smooth  pulp. 
When  evenly  mixed,  fold  in  the  whip 
from  three  cups  of  cream.  Turn  into 
a  mould,  press  the  cover  down  over  a 
sheet  of  paper,  and  keep  buried  in 
equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt  four  hours. 
Chicken  Breasts  with  Baked  Aspar\ 

This  dish  may  be  prepared  in  several 
ways.  The  uncooked  breast  may  be 
divided  into  four  fillets ;  these  may 
be  simmered  until  tender,  in  the  oven, 
in  a  little  chicken  stock,  with  vege- 
tables, and  then  glazed.  They  may  be 
served  around  a  mound  of  mashed 
potato,  with  the  asparagus  cooked  and 
dressed  in  layers  with  bechamel  sauce, 
and  the  top  covered  with  buttered 
crumbs,  in    a    separate    dish.     Or    the 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


cooked  breast,  divided  into  fillets,  egged 
and  bread-crumbed,  and  fried  in  deep 
fat,  may  be  arranged  around  the  aspar- 
agus dressed  in  the  centre  of  a  silver 
baking-dish. 


Query  339. —  "Recipes  for  oyster 
cocktails  for  twelve  persons,  maraschino 

punch,  and  an  economical  chicken  salad.'1'' 

Oyster  Cocktails  for  Twelve  Persons. 

Clean  and  chill  sixty  small  oysters  : 
mix  with  three  teaspoonfuls  of  fine- 
grated  horseradish,  one  teaspoonful  of 
tabasco  sauce,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon 
juice,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
tomato  catsup,  and  one  teaspoonful  and 
a  fourth  of  salt.  Serve  in  sherry 
glasses.  in  grapefruit  or  lemon  shells, 
or  in  tomato  cups.  If  fresh  tomatoes 
are  not  at  hand,  cups  may  be  shaped 
from  tomato  jelly. 

Maraschino  Punch. 

Prepare  a  pineapple,  orange,  lemon, 
strawberry,  or  raspberry  water  ice,  us- 
ing a  syrup  made  by  boiling  a  quart  of 
water  and  a  pint  of  sugar  fifteen  min- 
utes, and  adding  to  it  when  cold  a  pint 
of  fruit  juice  and  the  juice  of  one  or  two 
lemons  ;  or,  if  lemon  ice  be  the  choice, 
add  one  cup  of  lemon  juice.  When 
frozen,  beat  into  the  ice  an  Italian 
meringue  (half  a  cup  of  sugar  and 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  water  boiled  to  the 
thread  and  beaten  into  the  white  of  an 
egg  that  has  been  beaten  until  foamy") 
flavored  with  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
maraschino. 

Economical  Chicken  Salad. 

Mix  one  teaspoonful.  each,  of  salt, 
mustard,  and  sugar,  add  an  egg,  slightly 
beaten,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter,  and  three-fourths  a  cup  of  cream  ; 
cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantlv 


until  thickened,  then  add  gradually 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  hot  vinegar  ;  strain, 
and  when  cold  mix  with  equal  parts  of 
cold  chicken  cut  in  cubes,  and  tender, 
cold  roast  veal,  also  cut  in  cubes  ;  let 
stand  about  half  an  hour  in  a  cool  place, 
then  add  half  the  bulk  of  crisp  celery  cut 
in  bits,  or  crisp  chopped  cabbage  may 
be  used.  The  amount  of  dressing 
given  will  suffice  for  about  one  pint  of 
meat  and  celery  mixed.  Garnish  with 
lettuce,  pickled  beet,  olives,  chillies,  or 
tomato  jelly. 


Query  310. —  D.  A.  P..  JFinthrop, 
Mass.;  "Kindly give  instructions  to  in- 
dicate when  bread  or  pastry  flour  is  to  be 
used  in  recipes.  Also  give  menu  for  a 
simple,  pretty  luncheon  to  be  given  to  half 
a  dozen  schoolgirls  in  June" 

Bread  or  Pastry  Flour. 

Theoretically,  bread  and  pastry  flour 
may  be  used  indiscriminately  in  any 
preparation  requiring  flour.  But,  in 
actual  practice,  better  results  will  in 
most  cases  ensue  if  bread  flour  —  that 
is,  rlour  made  of  spring  wheat  —  be  used 
when  yeast  is  employed,  and  pastry 
flour,  made  of  winter  wheat,  in  all 
other  preparations.  Unless  otherwise 
specified,  this  distinction  is  made 
in  all  the  recipes  in  this  magazine. 
The  reason  for  this  is  obvious,  when 
we  recall  that  flour  made  from  spring 
wheat  takes  up  a  large  amount  of 
water,  a  condition  desirable  in  bread 
made  with  yeast,  but  not  in  pastry, 
cake,  etc..  where  only  such  an  amount 
of  thickening  is  called  for  as  will  hold 
together  the  other  ingredients. 

MENU    FOR    LUXCHEOX. 

(Early  June.) 

Strawberries  an  Xaturel. 

Cream  of  Asparagus.  Kreadsticks. 

Chicken  Timbales.  Bechamel  Sauce. 


304 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


Mayonnaise  of  Sweetbreads  and  Cucumbers. 

Entire- Wheat-Bread-and-Butter  Sandwiches. 

Rosebuds  Moulded  in  Pineapple  Jelly 

(individual  forms). 

Whipped  Cream.  Little  Cakes. 

Coffee. 


Query  341. —  Mrs.  B.  P.,  Mo  line, 
III. :  "Is  there  any  difference,  save  in  the 
hour  of  serving,  between  a  '  high  tea ' 
ana7  a  company  luncheon  ?  Could  the 
refreslwients  at  the  former  be  limited  to 
two  courses  ;  and  what  is  the  correct  hour 
for  serving  the  same  ?  Kindly  give  menu 
for  each.  I  wish  to  serve  about  thirty 
guests.  Could  I  serve  the  high  tea  at 
small  tables?" 

High  Tea  and  Company  Luncheon. 

As  we  understand  the  usage  of  these 
two  functions,  the  hour  of  serving  is 
the  main  difference  between  them.  A 
minor  difference  might  be  noticed :  the 
luncheon  party  might  call  for  a  more 
elaborate  menu.  The  high  tea  of  the 
present  is  a  slightly  formal  and  elab- 
orate form  of  "five-o'clock  tea,"  or  an 
"  at  home."  It  does  not,  however,  call 
for  the  elaborate  effects  of  an  afternoon 
reception,  and  is  usually  served  to  a 
larger  number  of  guests  than  a  lunch- 
eon, and  a  less  number  than  a  reception. 
The  guests  at  a  high  tea  are  usually 
served  at  small  tables,  and  at  about  five 
o'clock.  Luncheon  menus  have  been 
given  already.  In  the  following  menu, 
the  second  course  might  be  omitted. 

MENU    FOR    HIGH    TEA. 

(1)  Chicken-and-Asparagus  Patties. 

Pim-olas. 

(2)  Cutlets-of -Tongue  Mousse. 

Lettuce  Salad.     Rolls. 

(3)  Strawberry  Sherbet.     Wafers. 

Tea. 


and  names  of  publishers.  Are  we  to  have 
the  second  article  promised  by  the  author 
of  'Art  Education  in  the  Home '?" 
Vegetarian  Cook-Books. 
"  The  Fat  of  the  Land,  and  How  to 
Live  on  It,"  by  Ellen  Goodell  Smith, 
M.  D.,  Dwight,  Mass.;  published  by  the 
author,  price,  $1.50.  "Cooking  for 
Health,"  by  Rachel  Swain,  M.  D.;  pub- 
lished by  the  Health  Culture  Company, 
503  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York;  price,  $1. 
Further  information  in  regard  to  books 
of  this  class  may  be  obtained  of  the 
Vegetarian  Society  of  America,  Faulk- 
rod  Street,  Philadelphia.  The  author 
and  sculptor  referred  to  by  our  corre- 
spondents has  been  very  busy  for  the 
past  two  years ;  but  we  hope  to  have, 
at  no  distant  day,  the  promised  article. 


Query  342. —  To  a  three  years'  sub- 
scriber: "  Kindly  give  names  of  inexpen- 
sive  vegetarian   cook- boohs,  with   prices, 


Query  343. —  L.  M.  C:  "Recipe  for 
crescent  rolls,  also  how  to  shape  and  bake 
them.  Also  recipe  of  a  filling  for  '  cream 
rolls:" 

Crescent  Rolls. 

Add  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  to  a  pint  of  scalded 
milk ;  when  cool  add  two  cakes  of 
compressed  yeast,  softened  in  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  water,  and  flour  to 
make  a  sponge  ;  beat  thoroughly,  cover, 
and  let  stand  until  light,  then  add  flour 
enough  to  form  a  dough  to  knead.  It 
will  take  about  six  cups  of  flour  in 
all.  Knead  until  very  elastic  (about 
twenty  minutes),  then  set  aside  to  rise; 
cut  down  when  light,  knead  into  a 
round  shape,  then  pat  and  roll  out  into 
a  sheet  less  than  one-fourth  an  inch 
thick ;  cut  into  pieces  seven  or  eight 
inches  square,  cut  these  into  halves, 
diagonally,  forming  triangles.  Hold 
the  apex  of  the  triangle  in  the  right 
hand,  roll  the  opposite   side  over  and 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


305 


over  towards  the  apex,  stretch  the  point 
over,  and  then  leave  it  under  the  roll 
and  bend  the  two  ends  of  the  roll 
around  towards  each  other,  to  form  a 
crescent;  let  the  rolls  rise  in  a  buttered 
pan,  without  contact  with  each  other. 
Brush  the  tops  with  a  little  sugar  dis- 
solved in  milk,  or  with  yolk  of  egg 
beaten  with  a  little  milk,  and  bake 
about  fifteen  minutes,  in  a  hot  oven. 
Kindly  send  more  explicit  directions  as 
to  what  is  desired  for  "a  filling  for 
cream  rolls.'1'' 


Query  344. —  Mrs.  J.  T.,  New  York 
City:  "  Recipe  and  explicit  directions  for 
making  and  shaping  coffee  rolls  from 
brioche." 

Coffee  Rolls  from  Brioche. 

Mix  with  the  hands  half  a  cup  of 
whole  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  yolks,  one- 
fourth  a  pound  of  sugar  (half  a  cup), 
two  yeastcakes,  softened  in  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  water,  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  extract  of  lemon,  or  two  powdered 
cardamom  seeds.  Add  four  cupfuls  and 
two-thirds  of  flour.  Beat  thoroughly 
and  let  rise  over  night  (about  six  hours), 
standing  in  an  icebox.  Turn  on  to  a 
floured  board,  roll  out  into  a  square 
sheet  one-fourth  an  inch  thick.  Spread 
with  softened  butter,  fold  so  as  to 
make  three  layers  ;  cut  in  strips  three- 
fourths  of  an  inch  wide,  let  rise  again, 
then  twist  and  bring  the  two  ends  to- 
gether in  the  centre  of  what  would  be 
a  circle  of  dough.  Let  rise  again,  and 
bake  when  light,  nearly  fifteen  minutes. 
Fewer  eggs  may  be  used, —  the  yolks 
of  four,  with  half  a  cup  of  whites. 
When  baked,  spread  over  the  top  of 
the  rolls  a  frosting  made  of  confec- 
tioners' sugar  and  hot  water  to  mix. 


spoon  corn  bread,  given  in  the  menus ; 
also,  corn  pone,  as  known  to  the  Southern 
people.'1'' 

Virginia  Spoon  Corn  Bread. 
Stir  half  a  cup  of  breakfast  hominy 
(white  grits)  into  a  quart  of  boiling 
water,  to  which  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
salt  have  been  added.  Cook  thirty 
minutes  ;  add  two  tablespoonfuls,  each, 
of  butter  and  lard.  Beat  three  eggs 
lightly,  without  separating  the  whites 
and  yolks,  add  one  cup  of  milk,  and 
stir  into  the  hominy.  Lastly,  add  one 
pint  of  yellow  cornmeal  with  three 
level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 
Turn  into  a  buttered  serving-dish  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three-fourths 
an  hour.  Serve  from  the  dish  with  a 
spoon  and  with  butter.  This  will  serve 
ten  people. 

Pone. 
(Century  Cook-Book.) 
Sift  a  quart  of  white  cornmeal  and 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  pour  on 
enough  cold  water  to  make  a  mixture 
that  will  squeeze  easily  through  the 
fingers.  Work  to  a  soft  dough.  Mould 
into  oblong  cakes  an  inch  thick  at  the 
ends,  and  a  little  thicker  in  the  centre. 
Slap  them  down  on  the  pan,  and  press 
them  a  little,  to  show  the  marks  of 
the  fingers.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
about  twenty  minutes  on  a  hot  pan 
sprinkled  with  the  bran  sifted  from  the 
meal. 


Query  345.  — Mrs.  W.  N.  _/.,  New 
Haven,    Conn.:     "  Recipe  for    Virginia 


Query  346.  —  Mrs.  C.  R.   S.,  Dur- 
ham, Me. :  ' '  Recipe  forfrappe. ' ' 
Coffee  FrappS. 

Dissolve  three-fourths  a  cup  of  sugar 
in  a  quart  of  clean,  black  coffee,  and 
freeze  as  ice-cream.  Serve  in  glasses, 
either  with  or  without  whipped  cream, 
on  the  top  of  the  frappe'.  A  pastry 
bag  with  star  tube  is  of  assistance  in 
placing  the  cream. 


306 


THE  BOSTON   COOKIATG-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


Query  347.  —  Mrs.  E.  S.  P.,  Port- 
la  fid,  Me. :  "  Re 'ripe  for  milk  jelly.  Can 
you  suggest  some  reason  for  the  bitter 
taste  sometimes  noticed  in  potato  salad, 
dressed  with  a  mayonnaise  dressing  I 
Why  should  doughnuts,  turned  often 
when  frying  and  made  of  the  following 
ingredients,  crack  open  when  frying  ? 
Ingredients :  Cup  of  sugar,  tablespoonful 
of  shortening,  whole  egg  and  the  yolk  of 
another,  a  scant  cup  of  milk,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cream-of  tartar,  one-half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  salt,  cinnamon,  and 
flour  to  roll  soft." 

Milk  felly. 

Milk  may  be  jellied  with  liquid  ren- 
net, but  there  are  in  the  market  tab- 
lets of  rennet  that  will  jelly  a  specified 
quantity  of  milk ;  as,  one  tablet  will 
jelly  a  quart  of  milk.  Heat  the  milk 
to  1000  Fahr.,  add  half  a  cup  of  sugar, 
such  flavoring  as  is  desired,  and  the 
tablet  crushed  and  dissolved  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cold  water ;  stir  quickly 
and  pour  into  glasses,  cups,  or  serving- 
dish  ;  let  stand  in  a  warm  room  until 
set,  then  chill  and  serve. 

Bitter  Taste  of  Potato  Salad. 

The  bitter  taste  which  you  have 
noticed  and  do  not  think  due  to  the 
oil  or  the  potatoes  is  probably  due  to 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  used  as  the  foun- 
dation of  the  mayonnaise  dressing. 
We  have  noted  a  similar  bitterness  in 
chicken  salad  served  with  a  boiled 
dressing,  in  which  yolks  of  eggs,  left 
over  from  a  white  cake,  though  kept 
closely  covered,  had  been  used.  The 
cake  was  of  good  flavor,  although  flavor- 
ing extract  was  not  used.  But  either  the 
yolks,  which,  on  account  of  fat  in  com- 
position, do  not  keep  well,  or  the  vine- 
gar spoiled  the  salad  ;  and  we  are 
inclined  to  think  the  yolks,  although 
all  right  in  appearance,  were  the  occa- 
sion of  the  trouble. 


Cracking  of  Doughnuts  in  Frying. 

Probably  doughnuts  crack  in  frying, 
when  they  are  turned  often,  because 
they  brown  over  before  they  are  through 
"  rising,"  and  the  gas,  in  its  efforts  to 
escape,  cracks  the  crust.  Usually,  if 
they  are  fried  first  upon  one  side,  and 
then  turned  and  fried  upon  the  other, 
they  will  not  crack. 


Query  348.  —  Mrs.  f.B.A.,  Pitts- 
burg. Pa. :  "  Recipe  for  cheese  puffs. 
They  seem  to  be  round,  hollow  patties, 
made  of  puff  paste  and  cheese." 

Cheese  Puffs. 
The  explanation  is  not  sufficiently 
explicit  for  us  to  venture  a  recipe.  The 
puffs  might  be  made  of  chou  paste  and 
filled  with  a  cream-cake  filling,  pepper 
and  cheese  being  substituted  for  the 
sugar ;  or,  they  might  be  puff-paste 
patties  with  cheese  folded  into  the 
paste.  '  Kindly  write  more  definitely 
and  we  will  try  again. 


Query  349.  —  E.  S.  M.,  Kansas 
City,  Mo. :  "  Recipe  for  German  coffee 
cake." 

German  Coffee  Cake. 
Dissolve  two  yeastcakes  in  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  water,  add  to  one  cup 
of  scalded  and  cooled  milk  with  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.  When  light  add 
one-third  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  one  egg,  well  beaten,  grating 
of  lemon  rind,  and  flour  to  make  a 
very  stiff  batter  ;  beat  very  thoroughly  ; 
when  light  spread  in  a  buttered  drip- 
ping-pan, cover,  and  let  rise.  When 
ready  for  the  oven,  brush  over  with 
beaten  egg  and  dust  thickly  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon  mixed  together.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven.      Reheat  for  breakfast. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


307 


Query  350.  —  Miss  M.  B.,  Palmetto, 
Ga.  :  ' '  In  some  baking-powders,  why  a?-e 
ammonia  and  alum,  which  ai-e  alkaline 
in  reaction,  substituted  for  an  acid  2  " 
Alum  and  Ammonia  in  Baking- Powder. 

We  suppose  these  substances  are 
used  to  generate  gas,  that  less  cream- 
of-tartar  or  other  acid  may  be  used,  the 
soda,  on  account  of  slight  cost,  not 
being  considered. 


Query  35 1 . —  Mrs.  A.  B.  C,  Boston, 
Mass. :  "  Recipe  for  baked  orange  souffle 
pudding^ 

Baked  Orange  Souffle  Pudding. 

Beat  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter  to  a 
cream  ;  add  gradually  one-fourth  a  cup 
of  sugar,  then  the  well-beaten  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  and  half  a  cup  of  flour  sifted 
with  one  level  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder  ;  lastly,  add  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in 
a  shallow  pan.  Mix  four  level  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch  with  one  cup 
of  sugar  and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  pour  over  this  one  cup  of 
orange  juice  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon 
scalding  hot ;  let  cook  over  the  fire 
until  the  mixture  boils,  then  over  hot 
water  ten  minutes  ;  add  one  egg  beaten 
very  light  without  separating,  and,  when 
the  egg  is  cooked,  pour  over  the  cake. 
Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  until  dry, 
then  beat  in  gradually  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  powdered  sugar,  fold  in  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  spread 
upon  the  cake  and  custard,  using 
pastry  bag  and  tube,  if  desired ;  brown 
delicately  in  a  slow  oven.  It  will  take 
about  eight  minutes. 


Query  352.  —  Missf.  C,  Springfield, 
Mass. :  ' '  Recipes  for  Scotch  cream  scones, 
and  scones  made  with  sour  milk" 


Scotch  Cream  Scones. 

Rub  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter  into 
four  cups  of  flour,  one-fourth  a  cup  of 
sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
four  level  tablespoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder  sifted  together ;  mix  to  a  dough 
with  about  one  cup  of  thin  cream,  cut 
with  a  knife,  and  turn  on  to  a  floured 
board;  pat  and  roll  into  a  sheet  about 
an  inch  thick,  cut  it  into  diamonds  or 
other  shape  fancied,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
Scones  with  Sour  Milk. 

Make  as  cream  scones,  increasing' 
the  quantity  of  butter  slightly  and  us- 
ing half  a  level  teaspoonful  of  bicarbon- 
ate of  soda,  instead  of  the  baking- 
powder. 

Query  353. —  Miss  L.  B.,  Wellsboro, 
Pcnn. :  " Menu  for  a  '■supper,'  to  be 
served  to  young  ladies  in  April.  Would 
like  to  ificlude  a  salad,  little  cakes,  and 
a  fancy  jelly,  with  recipes  for  the  same.1' 

menu.      1. 

Cold  Boiled  Tongue,  Aspic  Jelly. 

Pim-olas. 

White  Hashed  Potatoes. 

Salad  Chiffonade. 

Graham-Bread   Sandwiches. 

Cocoanut  Cakes.  Brownies. 

Cocoa,  with  Whipped  Cream. 

II. 
Scalloped  Oysters  in  Shells. 
Salad  Rolls.  Easter  Salad. 

Brownbread  (Boston)  Sandwiches. 

Orange  Sections  Moulded  in  Jelly  ; 

Garnish,  Orange  Slices  and  Cocoanut. 
Almond  Wafers.  Black  Coffee. 

Heap  Aspic  jelly,  cut  in  cubes,  in 
the  centre  of  a  serving-dish,  and  ar- 
range slices  of  tongue,  one  overlapping 
another,  around  it ;  garnish  with  pars- 
ley, pickled  beet,  or  olives.  In  either 
menu  substitute  veal  loaf,  chicken  or 
oyster  croquettes,  or  chicken  croquettes 


3oS 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


with  a  blanched  oyster  in  the  centre, 
for  the  first  dish.  Serve  either  menu 
in  three  courses. 

Cocoanut  Cakes. 

Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter ;  add, 
gradually,  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar. 
Sift  together  two  cupfuls  and  a  fourth 
of  flour,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  and  three-fourths  a  teaspoonful 
of  cream  -  of  -  tartar :  add  to  the  first 
mixture,  alternately,  with  half  a  cup  of 
milk ;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
ract  and  the  whites  of  five  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan, 
having  the  cake  about  two  inches  thick 
when  baked.  When  cold  cut  in  squares 
or  diamonds,  cover  with  frosting,  then 
sprinkle  thickly  with  cocoanut. 
Brownies. 

Cream  one-third  a  cup  of  bu:: 
add  one-third  a  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
one-third  a  cup  of  molasses,  a  well- 
beaten  egg,  and  seven-eighths  a  cup 
of  bread  flour.  Then  add  one  cupful 
of  pecan  meats  broken  fine.  Bake  in 
small  tins,  with  half  the  meat  of  a 
pecan  nut  on  the  top  of  each  cake. 
Salad. 

With  the  smooth  sides  of  butter- 
hands  roll  Xeufchatel  cheese  into  the 
shape  of  small  eggs.  Cut  long  radishes 
into  straws,  and  season  with  French 
dressing:  arrange  the  straws  in  lettuce 
nests,  place  the  eggs  in  the  DC 
sprinkle  the  whole  with  French  dress- 
ing, and  rleck  the  eggs  with  paprica. 


Orange  Sections  Moulded  in  Jelly. 

Soak  half  a  box  of  gelatine  in  half  a 
cup  of  cold  water ;  add  half  a  cup  of 
boiling  water,  a  cup  of  sugar,  juice 
of  a  lemon,  and  one  pint  of  orange 
juice.  Strain,  and  let  cool.  Have 
ready  individual  moulds  standing  in 
ice  water;  pour  in  a  very  little  of  the 
liquid  mixture ;  when  hard,  arrange 
upon  it,  in  each  cup,  two  sections  of 
an  orange  from  which  the  skin  has 
been  removed ;  add  a  few  drops  of 
jelly,  and  when  the  fruit  is  firm  fill  the 
mould.  A  few  strawberries,  cut  in 
halves,  may  be  used  with  the  orange 
sections ;  also  a  few  may  be  added  to 
the  sugared  slices  of  orange  to  be 
served  about  the  unmoulded  jelly.  If 
strawberries  are  not  accessible,  use 
cocoanut  with  the  orange  slices. 
Almond    Wafers. 

Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter ;  add, 
gradually,  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  then,  drop  by  drop,  half  a  cup  of 
milk,  and,  lastly,  two  cups  of  pastry 
flour  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
extract.  Spread  very  thin  on  the  bot- 
tom of  a  dripping-pan.  inverted  and 
buttered,  mark  in  squares,  sprinkle  with 
almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  fine, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about 
five  minutes.  Separate  the  wafers 
with  pointed  knife,  lift,  one  by  one, 
from  the  pan.  turn,  and  roll  from  one 
corner,  or  side,  on  the  hot  pan. 

/.  M.  H. 


- 


• 


^f^f^f^S^- 


News  and  Notes, 


Address  communications  for  this  department  to  Janet  M.  Hill,  Editor 
of  the  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine,  372  Boylston  Street, 
Boston,    Mass. 


Regarding  the  source  that  inspired 
the  recent  contribution  to  this  maga- 
zine, entitled  "  A  New  Phase  in  Die- 
tetics," Helen  Campbell  writes  :  — 

156  Lincoln  Avenue, 

Denver,  Mar.  8,  1900. 

Dear  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine, — 
New  York,  my  own  city  for  many  years,  re- 
joiced in  one  editor  who,  however  his  opinions 
might  antagonize,  had  a  reputation  for  as  ab- 
solute integrity  as  is  given  to  mortals.  "  If 
you  see  it  in  The  Sun,  it's  so  ! "  was  the  motto 
of  his  paper  ;  and  we  took  this  word  as  literally 
as  he  desired. 

From  the  Sunday  edition  of  The  Sun  — 
the  date  lacking,  but,  so  far  as  memory  goes, 
early  in  1899 —  I  took  a  long  and  most  enter- 
taining article  on  the  "  Hygienic  Restaurant  on 
Regent  Street,  London."  I  said  to  myself,  at 
the  time,  that  I  should  associate  such  place 
with  Oxford  rather  than  Regent  Street,  but 
had  no  means  of  verifying  or  disproving  the 
location.  In  any  case,  the  suggestions  were 
not  only  entertaining,  but  valuable,  as  witness 
a  series  of  letters  that  have  come  to  me  re- 
garding them.  Beyond  these  facts  I  cannot 
go.  If  the  restaurant  is  still  a  dream,  it  is  one 
fully  possible  of  realization.  But  I  fall  back 
on  my  old  editor's  motto  :  "  If  you  see  it  in 
The  Sun,  it's  so  ; "  and  I  commend  it  to  the 
editor  of  The  Epicure. 

Yours  sincerely, 

Helen  Campbell. 


Mrs.  L.  A.  Scattergood,  for  several 
years  principal  of  a  cooking-school  in 
Albany,  N.  Y.,  has  lately  given  a  short 
course  of  cooking  demonstrations  in 
the  dining-room  of  the  Pilgrim  Congre- 
gational  Church   of   Albany,  a  course 


in  Troy,  N.  Y.,  and  a  series  of  "  cook- 
ing matinees  "  in  the  Library  Theatre, 
Warren,  Pa. 


Miss  Farmer,  principal  of  the  Bos- 
ton Cooking-School,  is  at  present  giv- 
ing lessons  to  the  nurses  at  the  hos- 
pitals in  Fitchburg  and  Maiden,  Mass. 


The  Normal  Class  at  the  Boston 
Cooking-School  are  deep  in  the  mys- 
teries of  germs,  cultures,  etc.  Mr. 
Prescott,  of  the  Institute  of  Technol- 
ogy, is  in  charge  of  this  fascinating 
"  ology." 

Miss  Stella  Dodge,  Class  of  '99,  is 
engaged  in  conducting  practice  classes 
in  home,  plain  and  fancy  cooking. 
Private  lessons  and  invalid  cooking  at 
ladies'  homes  are  made  a  specialty  by 
Miss  Dodge. 


Kate  Smith,  Class  of  '99,  has  just 
accepted  a  position  at  the  Y.  W.  C.  A., 
Scranton,  Pa. 

Mrs.  Cora  F.  Gammon,  '99,  has  just 
entered  upon  her  duties  as  instructor 
of  cooking  at  the  Albany  Hospital, 
Albany,  N.  Y. 


Mrs.  Hattie  M.  Drury,  '99,  is  giving 
instruction  in  cooking  to  the  nurses  at 
the  Children's  Hospital,  Boston.  Mrs. 
Drury  has  also  assumed  the  duties  of 
housekeeper  at  this  hospital. 


THE  BOS  TO  A'   COOKIXG-SCHOOL    MAGAZIXE. 


We  clip  the  following  from  the 
monthly  Messenger^  issued  by  the  Y.  W. 
C.  A.,  of  Worcester.  Mass.  :  — 

Perhaps  no  one  in  Worcester  is  more  popu- 
lar at  present  than  our  cooking-teacher,  Miss 
Buckingham.  The  Thursday  morning  demon- 
stration lectures  have  proved  so  satisfactory 
that  many  who  have  engagements  for  that 
morning  have  begged  for  an  additional  course 
on  Friday  mornings.  The  new  and  dainty 
ways  of  serving  the  foods  are  a  revelation  to 
many  who  have  thought  themselves  expert 
cooks. 

Miss  Buckingham  is  from  the  Class 
of  '99.  Boston  Cooking-School. 


Mrs.  Celeste  Bradley.  Class  of  '97, 
principal  of  the  cooking-school.  Ham- 
ilton, Canada. — which  is.  by  the  way. 
one  of  the  best  equipped  private  cook- 
ing-schools in  the  country, —  is  giving 
a  series  of  demonstration  lectures  in 
Toronto.  Canada. 


Perhaps  the  most  significant  sign  of 
the  direction  in  which  experience  is 
pointing  is  that  the  well-equipped  train- 
ing-school for  household  employees, 
started  two  years  ago  in  Boston,  has 
just  been  turned  into  a  Resident  School 
for  Housekeepers,  and  that  circulars 
giving  an  outline  of  proposed  courses, 
etc.,  are  to  be  sent  to  the  graduating 
classes  of  all  the  women's  schools 
and   colleges  in   the   countrv. 


Exhaustion 

HORSFORD'S  ACID  PHOSPHATE. 

Taken  after  exhaustive  illness 
it  acts  as  a  wholesome  tonic, 
giving  renewed  strength  and 
vi^or  to  the  entire  svstem. 

Sold  by  Druggists. 


BOOK  REVIEWS, 

WEBSTER'S  INTERNATIONAL 
DICTIONARY.  2.126  pages.  Pic- 
torial Illustrations.  Springfield, 
Mass..  I .  S.  A. :      G.  ft  C.  Merriam 

Company. 

Those  who  have  become  accustomed 
to  the  use  of  a  single-volume  dictionary 
find  irksome,  indeed,  the  task  of  consult- 
ing a  work  in  several  volumes.  The 
latter  is  best  appreciated  when  it  is 
used  for  occasional  reference,  —  a  final 
resource  in  extreme  cases. 

Of  single-volume  dictionaries.  Web- 
ster's gives,  as  it  has  ever  done, 
to  a  very  large  part  of  the  English- 
speaking  race,  the  greatest  satisfac- 
tion. The  work  is  too  well  known 
to  need  description,  comment,  or  com- 
parison with  other  standards.  By 
numerous  revisions,  large  additions. 
and  constant  improvements,  the  pub- 
lishers have  brought  this  work,  now 
called  the  International,  as  near  per- 
fection as  anything  in  print  can  well  be. 
In  the  home  or  in  the  counting-room, 
wherever  the  English  language  is  es- 
teemed of  value  or  concern,  this  work, 
now  a  library  of  information  in  itself, 
is  almost  indispensable.  Certainly  it 
should  be  made  a  cornerstone  in  even- 
library,  school,  public  or  private. 

Judicious  and  thoughtful  was  the  re- 
mark of  the  scholar  who  said  :  "Were 
I  to  be  confined  for  life  in  a  single 
apartment  and  had  the  choice  of  but 
three  books  'for  my  companions.  I 
would  take  the  Bible,  the  works  of 
Shakespeare,  and  Webster's  unabridged 
dictionarv." 


THE    HOSTESS  OF    TO-DAY.      By 

Linda   Hull   Larned.      Cloth.      Illus- 
trated.     Trice,  $1.50.      New   York: 

Charles  Scribner's  Sons. 

This  volume  his  many  commendable 
features.  It  contains  863  recipes  of 
dishes  suitable  for  dinners  and  lunch- 
eons, five-o'clock  functions,  and  chaf- 
ing-dish creations.  Each  recipe  is 
made-  sufficient  for  six  persons.  The 
price,  as  well  as  the  name  of  each  dish, 
is    driven,  both   in    the  text  and   in    the 


\Vke?i  you  iLriie  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston*  Cooking -School  Magazini 


FS. 

BAKING 
POWDER 


BOSTON,    MASS. 
AFTER  MANY  YEARS'   EXPERIENCE, 
AM  CONVINCED  THAT  A  PURE  CREAM  OF 
TARTAR    BAKING  POWDER  IS  THE  BEST 
QUICK    LEAVENING.    AGENT,    AND    IS 
WHOLESOME   FOOD   ADJUNCT. 

GUARANTEE   THAT  THIS   POWDER 
'PREPARED   AFTER    MY    FORMULA,    CON- 
TAINS   ONLY    THE     HIGHEST    POSSIBLE 
GRADE  OF   CREAM  OF  TARTAR   AND    El 
'CARBONATE  OF  SODA,  WITH  THE  SMALL- 
EST    PERCENTAGE     OF    CORN    STARCH 
'NECESSARY  FOR  ITS  PERFECT  KEEPING. 

AS  LONG  AS  MY  SIGNATURE.APPEARS 
ON  THESE  LABELS,  HOUSEKEEPERS,  MAY 
BE  SURE  THAT  THIS  FORMULA  WILL  BE 
FOLLOWED    IN   THE    MANUFACTURE    OF 
THIS    BAKING  POWDER. 


BOSTON,  MASS.U.S.A. 


R  Q^THg/  '.BOSTON   COOK   BOOK" 
tO    MEMBER   OF   MRS     LINCOLN'S   BAKING 
POWDER  COMPANY. 


None  genuine  wifhoul  Mrs. Mary  J.Lincolns  signature 


MRS.  LINCOLN'S  BAKING  POWDER  COOK  BOOK  OF  SEASONABLE  DISHES 
for  every  month  free   with  each  can  purchased. 

OFFICE,     -       -       -    21  COMMERCE  STREET,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


* 


UP  THE  CHIMNEY 

IS    WHERE    MOST    OF    THE    HEAT    GOES    IN    MOST    RANGES. 
THIS    WASTE     OF     FUEL     AND     COOKING     POWER     IS     PRE- 


VENTED   IN    THE 


HOME  CRAWFORD 

RANGE.  Inventive  genius  lias  supplied  a  remedy  —  a  patented 
"  SINGLE  DAMPER,"  one  movement  of  which  simultane- 
ously regulates  fire  and  oven.  Simply  slide  the  knob  to  "Kindle," 
"  Bake,"  or  "  Check,"  as  your  needs  may  require. 

The  Two=Damper  Ranges  are  Deficient. 

Ask  your  dealer  about  it  —  and  about  the  oven  (most  capacious    of   any,  five   heights  for  rack),  the  large  sell-    y^ 
cleaning  firebox,  the  superior  grates  (choice  of  triple,  dock-ash  or  plain),  the  extra  large  ash-pan,  the  RELIABL,!? 
oven  thermometer. 

EASIEST    MANAGED    RANGE    AND    BEST    EVER    MADE. 

4  Send  for  Illustrated  Circular. 

#   WALKER  &  PRATT  MFC.  CO-,  31-35  union  st.,  boston.  <j* 

JL  Proprietors  Finest  Stove  Foundry  in  the  world.  A± 

«******#***?»»??*#«$»?«$$#**?#?»*#*?#?*«« 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE. 


index ;  so  that,  in  planning  an  enter- 
tainment, one  can  readily  select  a 
menu  within  the  sum  apportioned. 

The  hints  to  the  novice,  and  sug- 
gestions in  reference  to  the  ways  of 
serving  the  formal  and  the  informal  din- 
ner, the  formal  and  the  informal  lunch- 
eon, etc..  are  excellent  and  practical. 

Explicit  statement,  and  simple  ar- 
rangement, render  the  entire  contents 
serviceable.  Nothing  is  obscure  or 
hard  to  find.  In  form  and  make-up 
the  volume  at  once  attracts.  The  illus- 
trations, though  they  are  not  numerous, 
are  appropriate  and  interesting. 

A  real  contribution  to  that  simplic- 
ity and  desire  for  artistic  effect,  com- 
bined with  the  practical,  which  is  the 
order  of  the  dav  in  culinarv  matters. 


CAKE -MAKING.      Boston:    The  Re- 
liable Flour  Company. 

For  those  who  are  acquainted  with 
the  Reliable  Prepared  Flour  this  tastily 
gotten-up  booklet  furnishes  a  list  of 
recipes,  and  method  of  cake-making, 
that  will  assist  the  housewife  in  pro- 
viding the  best  of  cakes. 

The  manufacturers  claim  that  the 
Reliable  Prepared  Flour  is  based  on 
accurate  analysis  and  tests  for  purity 
and  quality,  and  that  it  is  mixed  in  bulk 
with  the  exact  proportions  of  pure  soda 
and  cream-of-ta?-tar  which  the  analysis 
shows  to  be  required  for  the  perfect 
leavening. 

Certainly  ease  and  accuracy  are  fac- 
tors in  culinary  processes  so  desirable 
that  an  article  especially  prepared  to 
insure  these  results  is  worthy,  at  least, 
of  a  fair  trial. 


ABOUT    \  AXILLA.      Boston:    The 
Joseph    Burnett  Company. 

Doubtless  few  people  are  familiar 
with  that  rare  Mexican  orchid  that 
yields  the  genuine  vanilla.  This  neatly 
printed  and  prettily  illustrated  booklet 
contains  a  sketch  of  the  habitat,  cul- 
ture, and  curing  of  the  famous  vanilla 
bean,  whose  product  is  extensively 
used  to  impart  the  most  delicate  and 
satisfactory  flavor  to  so  many  dishes. 

It  is  published  and  distributed  by 
the  well-known  Joseph  Burnett  Com- 
pany, who  for  more  than  fifty  years 
have  spent  capital  liberally,  and  taken 
infinite  pains  to  study,  in  all  its  aspects, 
this  plant,  the  commercial  importance 
of  which  has  become  immense. 

The  growing  interest  in  the  subject 
of  healthful,  pure  food  products  should 
render  any  information  concerning  such 
an  important  article  of  general  use  in 
the  household  not  only  acceptable,  but 
also  serviceable  to  a  very  large  number 
of  progressive  and  inquiring  house- 
keepers. 

The  Government  un  Cereals.  —  In  the 
Government  report  upon  cereal  foods,  a  note 
of  warning  is  sounded  to  those  who  persist  in 
believing  that  a  breakfast  food  can  be  properly 
cooked  in  "three  minutes."  When  wheat  is 
so  finely  ground  and  separated  that  three  min- 
utes suffices  to  cook  it,  the  mineral  matter 
and  phosphates  have  been  so  far  removed  that 
it  is  practically  a  starchy  mass,  tasteless  and 
hard  to  digest, 

The  perfect  wheat  food  should  contain  "all 
the  wheat  but  the  overcoat."  The  granulated 
or  powdered  forms  of  breakfast  foods  are 
illogical  and  undesirable.  Really,  the  only 
perfect  wheat  food  to-day  is  that  old  reliable 
full-flaked  Pettijohn's  Breakfast  Food. 


I  ™%S*<0S  0f       SALAD      .  l5  NOT  A  SALAD 

LIA&PERMNS'SAUCE 

THE  ORIGINAL  fit  GENUINE  WORCESTERSHIRE 

WHEN  BUYING. NOTE  THE  SIGNATURE- 
LEA  &  PERRIISS  ACROSS  THE  WRAPPER. 

JOHN  DUNCANS  SONS,  AGTS..NEW  YORK. 


Wi 


When  you  -write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


Don't  Buy  a  New  Stove 


till  you  look  the  old  one  over  thoroughly  and  try  to 
find  out  what's  wrong  with  it.  Chances  are,  the  reason 
why  it  doesn't  bake  better  is  because  the  lining  to 
the  firebox  is  cracked  or  has  holes  broken  through  it. 
This  allows  the  heat  direct  access  to  the  front  oven  plates 
and  causes  the  oven  to  bake  unevenly.  The  neglect  of  stove 
linings  ruins  more  stoves  than  all  other  causes  combined. 

Champion 

Stove 


Clay 


USED  NOW  will  save  the  stove.  This  is  a 
combination  of  powdered  fire-clays  and  plum- 
bago. Mix  with  water  and  use  like  mortar  or 
cement.  ANY  ONE  CAN  USE  IT.  Keep  a 
box  on  hand.  It's  cheap.  Buy  it  of  stove 
dealers  and  at  hardware  and  general  stores. 
Write  us  if  you  can't  get  it. 

Don't  neglect  the  stove  lining;  the 
life  of  the  stove  depends  upon  it. 


BRIDGEPORT   CRUCIBLE   CO., 
Bridgeport,  Conn. 


♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ 

I O*  Eddy 

I       ...  Refrigerators ... 

4  /i    RE  designed  so  that  all  the  space 

♦  ^\^  can  be  utilized.  There  are  a  great 
J  many  so-called  "improvements" 
Z  intended    to    sell    cheap    refrigerators. 

♦  The  most  absurd  of  these  is  the  remov- 
T  able  ice  box.  It  is  said  to  be  easier  to 
+  clean.     But  the  funny  thing  about  the 

idea  is  that,  after  the  ice  box  has  been 
removed,  the  inside  of  the  place  it  was 
taken  from  is  still  there.  And  that  has 
to  be  cleaned.  And  the  outside  as  well 
as  the  inside  of  the  removable  box  has 
to  be  cleaned.  There  is,  therefore,  just 
three  times  as  much  surface  to  clean 
when  the  removable  box  is  used  ;  and 
dirt  collects  more  readily  because  oi 
the  separate  parts. 

These  are  the  reasons  why  Eddy 
Refrigerators  are  not  equipped  with 
removable  ice  boxes. 

We  make  them  just  as  compact  as  pos- 
sible and  entirely  free  from  useless  parts. 
They  are  the  easiest  to  clean  and  require 
cleaning  less  frequently  than  others. 

SEND    FOR    CATALOGUE.     It's  free  and  con- 
tains plain  talk,  about  Refrigerators. 


D.  EDDY  k  SONS,  Boston,  Mass. 


W lien  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  :.Iag-vzine. 


•^v 


w- 


Jl£#    KA 


Household  Hints. 


housekeepers'  memoranda. 

To  Remove  Ink  Spots  from  Gingham. 
—  Wet  the  spots  with  milk  and  cover 
them  with  common  salt.  Let  stand 
some  hours,  then  rinse  in  several  waters. 

To  Remove  Ink  Spots.  —  Put  one  or 
two  drops  of  oxalic  acid  on  the  spots, 
rinse  in  several  waters  and  finally  in 
ammonia. 

To  Remove  Grass  Stains.  —  Allow 
the  spots  to  remain  saturated  with  al- 
cohol for  a  little  time,  then  wash  in 
clear  water. 

To  Remove  Claret  Stains  from  Table 
Linen. —  As  soon  as  possible  cover  the 
stains  with  salt ;  let  stand  a  few  min- 
utes, then  rinse  in  cold  water. 

To  Remove  Fruit  Stains.  —  Pour 
boiling  water  over  the  stained  surface. 
Arrange  the  cloth  in  such  a  manner 
that  the  water  passes  through  a  single 
thickness  and  from  a  height  above  it. 

To  Remove  Red  Iron  Rust.  —  Cover 
the  spots  with  salt,  moisten  with  lemon 
juice,  let  stand  a  time,  adding  more 
salt  and  lemon.  If  not  successful  with 
these,  use  for  fast  colors  muriatic  acid. 
Spread  the  cloth  over  a  large  bowl  of 
hot  water,  touch  the  dry  spots  with  a 
drop  or  two  of  the  acid ;  when  the  rust 
disappears,  rinse  several  times  in  clear 
water  and  then  in  water  in  which  there 
is  a  little  ammonia. 

To  Remove  Paint  from  Clothing.  — 
Saturate  the  spots  with  equal  parts  of 
ammonia  and  spirits  of  turpentine  two 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention 


or  three  times,  and  then  wash  in  soap- 
suds. 

A  tablespoonful  is  measured  level. 

A  cupful  is  all  the  cup  will  hold, 
levelled  with  a  knife. 

To  divide  a  tablespoonful  in  halves, 
make  a  clean  cut  lengthwise  of  the 
bowl,  rejecting  what  you  do  not  want. 

To  divide  a  tablespoonful. in  fourths, 
make  a  cross  cut  through  the  remaining 
half;  repeat,  to  get  one-eighth,  in  the 
same  manner.  The  same  rule  applies 
to  a  teaspoonful. 

Slightly  Beaten  Eggs.  —  Eggs  are 
slightly  beaten  when  they  will  run 
from  the  tines  of  a  fork  when  picked 
up.     They  are  not  separated. 

Well-  Beaten  Eggs.  —  When  beaten 
together  until  they  are  light  and  lemon 
colored. 

To  Blend  Seasonings.  —  Sift  them 
thoroughly  together  before  adding  them 
to  mixture.' 

To  Chop  Parsley. —  Pick  leaflets  from 
stems,  wring   dry  in  a  small  piece  of 

Piaffe  Chlorides. 

The  Household  Disinfectant 
instantly    destroys    foul    odors     and 
disease-breeding    matter,    preventing 
much  sickness. 

An  odorless,  colorless  liquid  ;  powerful,  safe 
and    economical.      Sold  in  quart  bottles  only, 
by  Druggists  and  high-class  Grocers.    Prepared 
only  by  Henry  B.  Piatt,  Piatt  St.,  New  York. 
The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


"*t£ig 


GAIL 

BORDEN 

6AGL6 

BRAND, 

condensed  mil* 

ISS"BABIES"«iSai 

Borden's  Condensed  MiikCo.^.Y- 


RELIEF  AT  LAST! 


MAHLER 


ELECTRIC 
APPARATUS 


--.-&- 


^™l 


B^v'ar„f  SUPERFLUOUS  HAIR 

This  is  the  only  apparatus  ever  invented  which  ladies  can  oper- 
ate in  the  privacy  of  their  own  homes.  Also  permanently  re- 
moves moles,  warts,  etc.  Results  positive.  Simple  — Sate  — 
Economical.  Ladies  afflicted  are  invited  to  send  for  descrip- 
tive circular.     Correspondence  confidential. 

13.  J.  MAHLER,  305  Westminster  St.,  Providence,  K.I. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


The 
Little  Red  Devil 

on  a  can  of  Deviled  Ham  is  a 
guarantee  that  you  are  getting 
the  nicest  and  purest  article  that 
MARK*  it  is  possible  to  make.  Under- 
wood's Original  Deviled  Ham 
is  all  that  the  most  fastidious 

HE  BED  DEVIL  fpicufe  T^  *'*  i  VZ 

been  made  in  New  England  for 

the  past  thirty  years  and  is  to-day.  It  may  be 
bought  at  the  best  stores  in  every  civilized  coun- 
try in  the  world,  and  is  always  the  same. 

Containing  only  sugar-cured  Ham  and  pure, 
delicate  spices,  put  up  in  air-tight  cans ;  wherever 
you  buy  it,  you  will  find  it  deliciously  palatable. 
u  Stamped  with  the  devil,  but  fit  for  the  gods." 
In  order  that  you  may  try  and  appreciate  it 
yourself,  we  will  send,  on  receipt  of  your  name, 
a  full-sized  J5-cent  can  FREE. 


WM.   UNDERWOOD  CO. 
Boston.  Mass. 


U.S.A. 


cheese-cloth,  and  chop  fine  on  the  cor- 
ner of  a  meatboard,  using  small  paring- 
knife. 

To  Butter  Crumbs. —  If  crumbs  are 
soft,  use  one-third  a  cup  of  melted 
butter  to  one  cup  of  crumbs.  If  stale, 
use  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter  to  one 
of  crumbs,  tossing  lightly  with  a  fork 
to  distribute  the  butter  evenly. 


FROM    DAY    TO    DAY. 

No  use  in  mopin' 

When  skies  ain't  bright ; 
Keep  on  a-hopin'  — 

It'll  soon  be  light ! 

No  use  in  grievin' 

'Bout  the  milk  you  spill ; 
Keep  on  believin' 

That  the  cow'll  stand  still ! 

No  use  in  rowin' 

'Cos  the  crops  is  slow ; 
Keep  on  a-plowin' 

An'  they're  bound  to  grow! 

No  use !  the  heaven 

Is  above  the  skies  ; 
Put  in  the  leaven 

An'  the  bread  will  rise. 


f  hese  trade-mark  cris 

Glut 

BARLE 

Perfect   Breakfas 
PANSY    FLOUR 
Unlike    all 
For 
FARWELL&RHIN 


nes  on  every  package. 


its 


ASD 


STALS, 

ert   Health  Cereals. 
Cake  and    Pastry. 

Ask    Grocers, 
write 
ertown.  N.  Y.,  U.S.A. 


WORRY    KILLS 

but  Congress  Yeast  Powder  kills  worry- 
no  chance 


+  CONGRESS 

Yeast  Powder 

makes  evervthinq: 
light— light  bread, 
light  cake,  light 
labor,  light  hearts. 


#m*m 


Jf 


tife-M 


i  t     Ask  your   Grocer. 
if  

;;D.  &  LSLADE  CO., 
,',         BOSTON. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


CLAM  CHOWDER. 

Many  people  who  used  to  live  along  the  Atlantic  Coast 
now  reside  in  the  interior,  far  from  fresh  and  always  de- 
licious sea  foods  and  Clam-Bakes. 
The  first  course  in  a  good  old 
Rhode  Island  Clam-Bake  is  Clam 
Chowder.  Burnham's  Clam 
Chowder  is  as  delicious  an  article 
as  was  ever  eaten  on  the  New 
England  Coast.  One  can  contains 
enough  for  six  portions. 

Burnham's   Clam   Bouillon, 
as  a  first  dinner  course,  cannot  be 
excelled.  Thousands  of  testimonials 
as  to  its  efficacy  in  the  sick-room.     Sold  by  all  grocers. 

E.  S-  BURNHAM  CO.,  NEW  YORK. 


Tile       HUb 

Line  of 
Ranges 

Speak  for  Themselves 
in  Thousands  of  Homes. 

The  Hub  Ranges  are  used  in  the 
New    York,    Boston,    Providence, 
Hartford,    Worcester,   and    many 
-  .      -  other  Cooking-Schools. 

iS    STRONGER    ENDORSEMENT    POSSIBLE? 

Smith  &  Anthony  CO..  makers  hub  ranges  and  heaters, 

48-54  UNION  STREET,  BOSTON. 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School,  Magazine. 


Off  Your  Guard 

The  mild  days  of  early  spring  make 
you  careless  and  then  you  take  cold. 
For  many  years  a  favorite  household 
remedy  for  all  coughs  and  colds  has 
been 

Hale's 

Honey  of 

Horehound 

and  Tar 

It  will  cure  your  cold  before  more  se- 
rious trouble  ensues.  It  is  harmless, 
palatable,  and  causes  no  indigestion. 
25  cents,  50  cents,  and  $1.00  per  bot- 
tle ;  the  largest  size  cheapest.  At  all 
druggists'.     Refuse  substitutes. 


Pike's  Toothache  Drops  Cure  in  One  Minute. 

((&)  '  ■  '    t    r    y^  (xa 

PONDEX® 

'shoe! 

*=*  O  Ffc  (S 

IWOMENf 

SIX     DOL-L.AR0 
ARTICLE     FOR  Q 

¥3 


COSTUME    AT    LUNCHEON. 

The  proper  clothes  to  wear  to  a 
luncheon  depends  entirely  upon  the 
size  of  the  luncheon.  If  one  is  asked 
to  a  small  affair,  say  of  from  four  to 
eight  women,  it  is  quite  the  correct 
thing  to  wear  a  simple  tailor-made  suit 
with  bonnet  to  correspond,  one's  every- 
day dress,  in  fact.  If  the  invitation  is 
received  some  time  in  advance,  it  is  a 
sign  that  the  affair  will  be  more  or  less 
formal.  The  correct  dress  in  this  case 
is  a  reception  gown,  one's  best  and 
most  becoming  bonnet,  and  a  pair  of 
pale  kid  gloves.  Leave  your  wraps  in 
the  dressing-room.  Wear  your  gloves 
and  veil  into  the  drawing-room,  and 
keep  them  on  until  you  are  seated  at 
table.  There,  as  the  conversation  com- 
mences, you  remove  them,  and  keep 
them  in  your  lap.  At  the  end  of  the 
luncheon  you  may  put  on  your  veil 
again  or  not,  but  always  put  on  your 
gloves.  When  the  hostess  makes  the 
sign  to  move  is  the  time  to  begin  to 
put  them  on.  New  York  women  never 
stay  long  after  a  swell  luncheon.  They 
stand  about  the  drawing-room,  chatting 
and  talking,  just  about  long  enough  to 
have  the  coffee  served,  which  is  brought 
in  on  a  silver  tray  by  one  of  the  ser- 
vants and  handed  about.  —  Demoresfs 
Magazitie. 


TRY  THE 


Sunshine  Laundry 


if  you  value  Clean  clothes, 
OuMloor  drying  and  Shirts 
ironed  entirely  l>u  hand. 
J*  J*  FINE  OIRT3IN  WORK.  *»«  J* 


o  riora  Street, 

^J<£,  l5ROOrU.INI:. 


k 


■&JK 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


***^******n****^HHHH-IHHH^ 


The  Best 
Substitute  for  Coffee 


When  von  get  tired  of  other 
substitutes,  as  you  will,  try  the  OLD  GRIST  MILL  WHEAT  COFFEE. 

It  is  satisfying  and  healthful.    You  never  tire  of  it.    Boil  three  minutes. 

OLD  GRIST  MILL  ROLLED  WHEAT.  It  is  delicious  and  nourish- 
ing.    Ready  for  table  in  three  to  five  minutes. 

OLD  GRIST  MILL  TOASTED  WHEAT.  The  children's  choice  for 
breakfast. 

OLD  GRIST  MILL  ENTIRE=WHEAT  FLOUR.  By  eating  the  Health 
Bread  made  from  this  flour,  you  will  save  doctors'  and  druggists' 
bills.  It  is  nature's  brain  and  nerve  food,  rich  in  phosphates  and 
nitrates  without  an  excess  of  starch. 

Old  Grist  Mill  Health  Foods  are  perfect 
foods  for  men,  women,  and  children. 


POTTER  &  WRIGHTINGTON, 


BOSTON. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


IC&H 

EXTRA  CREAN 

OLIVE  j 
OIL,  | 

1UCCA ' 


fr^A  CREAM  OltYt  OIL" 
llEOMOmnNT. 


Wa 


- 


OUR  OWN 

IMPORTING  flc  BOTTLINCr     m  fp 


WE  KNOW  YOUJVANI 
ONLYJHE 

For    this    reason    we 

import  THE  BEST, 

and  you  can  buy  it  of 

us  at  what  you  are 

paying  for 

ordinary  oil. 


We  carry  the  finest  line  of 
Brandies,  Sherries,  Ports 
and  Madeira,  for  cooking 
and  medicinal  use,  to  be 
found  in  Boston. 

Send  for  our  Price  J. 1st. 

Goods  delivered  in  Boston 
and  Suburbs,  FREE.  _ 

Mail  orders  promptly  shipped 
to  any  point. 


Codman^HallG? 

^  DIRECTLY      OPPOSITE 

*  NEW  SOUTH    STATION 


DEWEY  SQUARE 

TELEPHONE 
v  881  OXFORD 


II 


WOMAN     AND    HOME. 

That  woman's  strong  citadel  is  "  the 
home "  no  one  will  deny;  but  there 
may  be  a  question  as  to  just  what  con- 
stitutes that  institution.  Long  ago 
thoughtful  people  drew  sharply  the  dis- 
tinction between  a  mere  dwelling,  or 
living- place,  and  the  sacred  thing 
which  we  designate  as  home.  Along 
the  same  lines,  a  woman  may  devote 
herself  to  the  best  interests  of  her 
family  and  their  home  life  without  pass- 
ing all  her  hours  in  the  kitchen.  To 
quote  the  truthful  words  of  a  Southern 
writer  :  "  There  are  women  who  do  not 
care  to  spend  their  entire  lives  over  the 
cookstove,  yet  are  neither  unwilling 
housekeepers  nor  poor  home-makers. 
Sometimes  the  kitchen  must  be  given 
into  hands  of  subordinates,  for  the  very 
reason  that  a  woman  so  highly  appreci- 
ates her  responsibilities  as  wife,  mother, 
and  homekeeper,  and  well  knows  that 
to  undertake  to  administer  affairs  in 
every  department  will  prove  beyond 
her  ability,  as  it  generally  is  of  the 
average  woman.  When  she  gives  the 
keys  of  the  kitchen  into  the  hands  of 
trusty  servants,  it  is  because  she  has 
too  great  a  regard  for  husband  and 
children  to  make  herself  a  mere  do- 
mestic machine  to  grind  out  three 
meals  a  day,  wash,  sweep,  iron,  scrub, 
and  answer  the  doorbell,  leaving  her 
daughters,  if  she  has  any,  to  entertain 
company  and  dispense  all  the  hospital- 
ities. It  does  not  prove  that  she  con- 
siders it  derogatory  to  her  dignity  to 
go  into  the  kitchen,  cook  a  beefsteak, 
or  mix  a  pan  of  biscuits  with  her  own 
hands,  only  she  has  duties  paramount 
that  she  cannot  conscientiously  neg- 
lect." 


SCOTCH  Scones.  —  One  quart  flour  sifted 
with  two  teaspoonfuls  Congress  Yeast  Powder, 
one  tablespoonful  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful 
salt,  one  tablespoonful  lard,  two  beaten  eggs, 
and  a  pint  of  sweet  milk.  To  be  eaten  hot 
with  butter.    Bake  in  muffin  rings  in  hot  oven. 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


w^vwvwwywtfWWWWtfwyw^YWWw^wwww 


A  Perfect 
Oven! 


The   Glenwood  Home   Grand  range 

with    its    oven   lined  with    asbestos 

keeps  an  absolutely  even  baking  heat. 

Two  Oven  Shelves  are  used  in  this  range,  and  three  rows  of  pies  or  bread  may  be 

baked  at  once.     The  only  range   made  that  will  bake   exactly  even  anywhere  in 

oven.     Write  for  Glenwood  Home  Grand  illustrated  booklet. 

GLENWOOD 

Weir  Stove  Company,     Taunton,  Mass.  Sold  bv  leading  dealers. 


SAWYER'S 

Crystal 

Blue 


gives  a 
beautiful  tint 
to  linens, 
laces  and 
goods  that 
are  worn 
and  faded* 

Be  sure  that 
you  get 

SAWYER'S. 


40  YEARS  THE  PEOPLE'S  CHOICE. 


CONTRACTS     TAKEN     TO 

EXTERMINATE 

WATER  BUGS,  BEDSTasnd  a" 


COLUMBIAN  INSECTICIDE  CO. 

Head  Office,  New  York  Office, 

235  WASHINGTON  ST.  Fulton  Building, 

BOSTON.  ^  Fulton  and  Nassau 

Telephone,  Boston-718.      W  Streets. 

Our  Goods  sold  by  Grocers,  Druggists, 
or  at  office. 


THE     OLD     RELIABLE 


'Carburet  of 
Iron  ' ' 


Dixons 
Stove  Polish. 

Never  turns  Red  or  Rusts  your  Stoves. 

JOS.  DIXON  CRUCIBLE  CO.,  JERSEY  CITY,  N.  J, 


When  you  write  Advertisers, please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


jtfl 

4^ 

1 

t^ 

TOO  LATE  TO  BEGIN 

caring  for  the  teeth,  for  they  are  about 
gone.  Good,  sound,  white  teeth  may  be  had 
in  old  age  through  the  use  of 

RliBi/OATll 

the  Perfect  Liquid  Dentifrice,  which  not  only 
arrests  and  prevents  decay,  but  keeps  the 
teeth  white  as  pearls,  gums  healthy  and  the 
breath  sweet. 


THE  TIME  TO  BEGIN 

is  when  the  teeth  first  come.  The  delicious 
fragrance  and  soothing  qualities  of  Rubifoam 
please  the  children. 


Popular  price  25  cts.     All  Druggists, 
Sample  Vial  for  a  2-ct.  stamp. 

E.  W.    HOYT    &    CO LOWELL,    MASS, 


polly's  pie. 

When  Mary  Ann  was  cooking  once 

Our  Polly  made  a  pie  ; 
She  took  some  flour  and  water 

And  some  butter  standing  nigh  ; 
And  then  she  took  some  sugar,  'cause 

She  says  she  likes  things  sweet, 
And  sprinkled  on  the  rolling-board 

All  that  she  didn't  eat. 

She  rolled  it  out  a  long,  long  time, 

With  salt,  a  little  bit ; 
She  dropped  it  four  times  on  the  floor, 

And  once  she  stepped  on  it. 
She  doesn't  think  pie  plates  made  of  tin 

Are  pretty,  so  she  took 
A  small,  red  flowerpot  saucer 

Which  was  better  for  the  cook. 

She  filled  her  pie  with  half  a  pear, 

Two  raisins  and  a  date  ; 
Then  put  it  in  the  oven,  and 

Forgot  it  till  quite  late. 
It  was  not  burned,  for  Mary  Ann, 

Had  taken  care  for  that ; 
So  Polly  gave  a  party  to 

The  chickens  and  the  cat. 

—  The  Outlook. 


T  At  a  recent  church  supper,  where  the 
bill  of  fare  was  prepared  and  served  by 
the  men,  the  Menu  was  headed  by  the 
following  lines  and  embellished  at  the 
side  with  the  accompanying  appropri- 
ate announcements. 

THE    MEN'S    RECESSIONAL. 

That  woman's  work  we  more  may  prize, 
That  with  her  we  may  sympathize, 
We  for  ourselves  her  tasks  have  set, 
To  know  her  care  and  feel  her  fret, 
Lest  wre  forget !  Lest  we  forget ! 

No  samples  given  —  No  goods  exchanged  ! ! 
Goods  damaged  by  fire,  water,  etc.,  \  price  !  ! 


How's  This? 

We  offer  One  Hundred  Dollars  Reward  for  any 
case  of  Catarrh  that  cannot  be  cured  by  Hall's 
Catarrh  Cure. 

F.  J.  CHENEY  &  CO.,  Props.,  Toledo,  O. 

We,  the  undersigned,  have  known  F.  J.  Cheney  for 
the  last  15  years,  and  believe  him  perfectly  honor- 
able in  all  business  transactions,  and  financially 
able  to  carry  out  any  obligation  made  by  their  firm. 
^„  West  &  Truax,  Wholesale  Druggists,  Toledo,  O. 
Walding,  Kinnan  &  Marvin, 

Wholesale  Druggists,  Toledo,  O. 

Hall's  Catarrh  Cure  is  taken  internally,  acting 
directly  upon  the  blood  and  mucous  surfaces  of  the 
system.  Price,  75c.  per  bottle.  Sold  by  all  druggists. 
Testimonials  free. 

Hall's  Family  Pills  are  the  best. 


When  you  write  Advertisers, please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


The  nearest  approach  to 
Mother's  Milk  yet  produced. 


BABY    BR 


Recommended  by  physicians  and  nurses. 

MAINE  CONDENSED  MILK  CO. 

WHITEFIELD,    N.    H. 


Fnfi  J\  P  CHOCOLATE 


Patented 
August  18,  1891. 
November  10,  1896. 
February  14,  1899. 

The  only  Grater 
for  Chocolate. 

Good  for  grating  Cheese, 
Cocoanut,  Bread,  etc.,  etc., 
and  works  perfectly. 

Does  not  tear  the  hands. 

40  square  inches  of  GRATING  surface. 

Sent  postpaid  on  receipt  of   15  2c.  stamps. 

AGENTS  WANTED. 

Send  for  our  New  Price  List. 

M^Edgar  Mfg.  Co.,M.  Reading,  Mass. 


[ALPHA! 

SALAD 
CREAM 

CONTAINS  NO  OIL 


LPHA  FOOD  Cq 

•  BOSTON  • 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


MODERN  MILK  METHODS. 

By  George  D.  Moulton. 


One  of  the  latest  and  most  modern 
milk  methods  is  that  of  sterilization 
by  centrifugal  force,  whereby  the  germs 
and  impurities  are  removed  without 
the  aid  of  heat ;  by  this  process  the 
milk  is  left  absolutely  free  from  germs, 
and  with  its  butter  and  cheese  proper- 
ties uninjured,  and  really  improved. 
Milk  treated  in  this  way,  and  put  up 
at  the  dairy  in  sterilized  glass  bottles 
sealed  with  the  new  paraffined  wood- 
pulp  bottle  caps  that  can  be  opened  just 
enough  to  pour  out  the  milk  as  wanted, 
and  then  resealed  by  a  simple  pressure 
of  the  finger,  enables  the  housekeeper 
not  only  to  have  pure  milk,  but  to  keep 
it  pure. 

With  cleanliness  and  purity  assured, 
it  is  not  surprising  that  the  consump- 
tion of  milk  is  rapidly  increasing,  and 
that  many  new  and  palatable  methods 
of  using  it  are  being  discovered. 
One  of  great  value  to  the  housekeeper 
is  a  new  method  of  making  ice-cream 
that  is  smooth  and  velvety,  and  as  rich 
as  that  made  by  the  best  caterers,  and 
at  much  less  cost.  This  new  process 
requires  for  a  gallon  of  delicious  ice- 
cream  only  three  quarts  of  milk,  one 
quart  of  medium  cream,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  vanilla  or 
other  flavor,  and  four  junket  tablets. 
(These  are  the  pure,  active  principle  of 
rennet,  and  cost  ten  cents  for  ten  tab- 
lets, and  are  made  at  Chr.  Hansen's 
laboratory,  Little  Falls,  N.  Y.,  Box 
1212).  Mix  the  milk,  cream,  and 
sugar  in  a  pan  or  kettle  and  heat  until 

When  you  write  Advertisers, please  mention 


just  lukewarm  (not  hot).  Have  the 
junket  tablets  already  dissolved  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and  stir 
quickly  into  the  warm  milk  ;  then  allow 
it  to  stand  in  the  warm  room  ten  min- 
utes until  firm,  like  a  jelly,  then  pour  it 
into  the  freezer  and  freeze  as  ordinary 
ice-cream ;  when  nearly  frozen,  open, 
and  pour  in  the  flavor  and  finish  freez- 
ing. 

The  above  recipe  may  be  varied  by 
adding  crushed  fruits  or  berries,  when 
the  cream  is  nearly  frozen,  or  by  adding 
eggs  or  stimulants,  if  required,  for  con- 
valescents. 

Another  valuable  discovery  is  a  new 
method  that  enables  any  one  to  add 
quite  a  large  quantity  of  brandy,  or 
other  stimulant,  to  milk,  without  cur- 
dling it.  This  is  particularly  valuable 
for  invalids  in  a  very  weakened  condi- 
tion, as  it  gives  immediate  stimulation 
without  intoxication.  The  recipe  is : 
dissolve  two  tablespoonfuls  of  granu- 
lated sugar  in  five  tablespoonfuls  of 
brandy,  or  other  stimulant ;  add  this 
to  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  when  just 
lukewarm;  have  one-half  of  a  junket 
tablet  already  dissolved  in  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cold  water,  and  add  to  the  warm 
milk ;  let  stand  in  a  warm  room  until 
firm,  then  serve  to  the  invalid  as  a 
spoon  food,  or  it  may  be  whipped  to  a 
smooth  emulsion  and  served  as  a  drink. 
In  this  way  you  give  nourishment  and 
stimulation  quickly  without  danger  of 
intoxication,  or  of  hard,  indigestible 
curds  forming  in  the  stomach. 
The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


> 


- 


.■"■ 


- 


f7-    !'         -' 


'  1 '  j J 


urn 


The  saying  is :  "  We  can't  keep  house  without  one." 
There  is  no  oilstove  in  the  world  as  good  as  the  Automatic — none  so  sim- 
ple, so  effective,  so  economical.     The  Automatic  is  Valveless, 

which  absolutely  prevents  clogging,  dying  out  of  flame,  flooding,  or  confla- 
gration.    In  the  Automatic  there  is  no  waste,  oil  comes  only  as  burned. 

The  Automatic  Cabinet  Oilstove 

in  nine  other  styles  and  sizes,  $5.50 
to  $17.00.  Tested  Ovens  that 
bake.  Six,  specially  for  the  Auto- 
matic, $2.25  to  $4.00.  End  door, 
Side  Drop  Door,  or  Upright. 

Most  Elegant  Oilstove  Ever  Placed 

on  the  Market. 
Handsome  Swell-Front  Design. 
Solid  Panel  Ends  and  Armor- 
Protected  Oil  Reservoir. 
Cabinet  Style,  but  Tray  Open 

for  Easy  Cleaning. 
All  Welded  Joints. 

May  we  send  you  a  Free  Sample  of  Electric 
Welding  as  used  in  the  Automatic  ?  It  is  the  most 
wonderful  process  of  applied  electricity  yet  made. 


'U-y; 


No.  3  High  Junior,  Price 

No.  3  Junior  (same  stove  without  the  lower  cabinet) 


$14.00 
11.50 


FIRST-CLASS  DEALERS  everywhere  sell  the  Automatic,  or  should 
do  so.  If  he  offers  a  substitute,  or  does  not  handle  the  Automatic,  then  write  us  ; 
we  will  either  refer  you  to  some  nearby  agent,  or  sell  you  direct  and  prepay  freight 
within  limits.    Catalogue  and  other  unsolicited  testimonials  free. 

Central  OH  and  Gas  Stove  Co. 

Oldest  and  Largest  Manufacturers 
of  Oilstoves  in  the  World. 

213  School  St.,  Gardner,  Mass.,  U.  S*A. 


^ WrCKLESS  VALVELESS  BlJUEfLAME^ 

1^^— — m  mm  iiiiiimiibi ■  ii— ■ ■!■■ ■■■ wmniutaatJ** 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


IN    THE    TEA    CORNER. 

The  curtains  shut  us  from  the  night, 
The  storm-beat  came  as  from  afar ; 

Her  little  hands,  like  waves  of  light, 
Flashed  white  around  the  samovar. 

A  swinging  lantern  lit  the  scene ; 

Its  crimson  glow  about  us  lay 
Upon  the  inlaid  wood  between 

The  service  brought  from  far  Cathay. 

I  followed  her  with  half-closed  eyes 
As  daintily  she  made  the  tea, 

Whose  gracious  incense  seemed  to  rise 
Like  some  rare  Eastern  sorcery. 

Yet  might  I  have  restrained  my  love 
But  for  the  light  that  shimmered  o'er 

The  flowing  sleeves  and  bosom  of 
The  Li  Hung  jacket  that  she  wore. 

—  Albert  Bige'.ow  Pa  inc. 


Comfort  for  Consumptives.  —  It  is  sur- 
prising how  little  common  sense  has  been 
used  in  the  past  in  treating  consumptives.  Is 
there  any  reason  why  you  should  burden  the 
stomach  with  cough  preparations  and  load  it 
with  opiates  that  stupefy  and  retard  its 
action,  while  you  are  trying  to  relieve  pain, 
and  cure  soreness  in  the  throat  and  lungs? 
The  true  cause  of  pain  is  Nature's  effort  to 
force  new  blood  into  and  through  a  part  al- 
ready filled  up  with  congested  blood ;  this 
causes  a  pressure  on  the  nerves  and  gives 
the  sense  of  pain.  Why  should  the  nerves  be 
stupefied  for  telling  you  of  the  trouble  ?  The 
common-sense  way  would  be  to  remove  the 
congestion  and  let  the  warm  blood  flow  freely 
through  the  congested  parts,  which  will 
promptly  relieve  the  pain,  remove  the  sore- 
ness, and  build  up  the  injured  tissue.  How 
remove  the  congestion  ?  That  is  the  vital 
question,  and  in  answer  to  this  it  may  be  well 
to  note  the  following  letter:  — 

Geo.  D.  Moulton,  Esq.,  Grocers'  Exchanger 
Boston,  Mass.,  Dear  Sir,  —  Please  forward  me 
by  return  mail  three  25c.  boxes  of  your  Bama- 
cea.  I  find  that,  by  spreading  it  upon  a  piece 
of  flannel  and  laying  it  upon  my  chest  at  night, 
it  gives  me  greater  relief  from  coughing  than 
all  the  cough  mixtures  I  have  ever  taken. 
You  will  probably  appreciate  better  the  full 
meaning  of  this,  when  I  state  that  I  have  had 
fourteen  doctors  trying  their  hands  on  me  for 
bronchial  trouble  during  the  past  three  years. 
Please  forward  the  Bamacea  promptly. 
Yours  very  truly, 

H.    A.    NOECKEL. 


Sally  Lunn. —  One  pint  of  flour,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  Congress  Yeast  Powder, 
one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  two  eggs,  beaten  sep- 
arately, one-half  cup  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of 
melted  butter. 


When  you  write  Advertisers, please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking -School  Magazine. 


UTCHER'S    BOSTON    POLISH 

MANUFACTURED   BY   THE. 

BUTGHER  POLISH  GO., 


R 

^^^B         is  the  best  finish  for 

FLOORS, 

Interior  Woodwork  and  Furniture. 

Circulars  Sent  on  Application. 
For    Sale   by  Dealers  in  Painters'  Supplies. 


356  Atlantic  Ave.,  Boston,  Mass. 


BUY    THE    CELEBRATED 

Chamberlin 
Steam  Cooker 

•«■•      Just  the  thing  for  Summer. 

Used  on  a  gas  or  oil  stove  it  requires  but 
+j  very  little  flame  and  gives  out  no  odor. 
Bj  It  will  do  the  every-day  cooking  with 
least  possible  trouble.  Unsurpassed  as  a 
Fruit  Canner.for  which  directions  go  with 
^  each  Cooker,  and  it  is  used  extensively  as 
jg  a  Sterilizer. 
DO    The  best  in  the  world.  Send  for  circular. 

S.  W.  CHAMBERLIN  CO. 

Office  and  Manufactory,  25  Union  Street, 
BOSTON,  MASS. 


OUR   CATALOGUE 

SUGGESTS  very  many  things 
necessary  for 

Up-to-Date  Cooking. 

It  is  profusely  illustrated,  and  is  the 
largest  and  most  expensive  issued  by 
any  house  furnishing  store  in  the 
country. 

F.  A.  WALKER  &  CO., 
House  Furnishers, 

83=85  Cornhill, 
BOSTON,  MASS. 

Catalogue  by  mail  10c. 


THE    pleasure  of    a    dinner     is 

marred    unless    served    quietly. 

DONTSLIP   Heels   and   Soles   avoid 

noise  and  DON'T  SLIP. 


THEY  SA  VE  DISHES. 

HEELS,  35c-  SOLES,  50c 

SOLD  EVERYWHERE, 


^  mi/  \i/  \i/  Ml/  \t/  m/  \i/  \i/  Mi/  viz  \A/  mi/  mi/  viz  * 


Carpets  m 
Oriental  Rugs. 


Our  assortment  is  large  and  varied.     Our    p 
*J    experience  in  meeting  the   needs  of  house-   |» 
Sj    holders,     combined     with     the     purchaser's    j£ 

taste   and    good   judgment,    will    give    most 

pleasing  results. 


i 


Artistic  Effects, 

Serviceable  Fabrics, 

Satisfactory  Prices. 

Our  services  are  at  your  command. 


\  JOEL  GOLDTHWAIT  &  CO.,  \ 

3  169  Washington  Street,  £ 

|   Near  Cornhill.  BOSTON.    £ 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


oe  Standard  Bath  Cabinet 

THE  BEST  CABINET  IN  THE  WORLD. 

Price ,  $5.00. 

Always  ready.  A 
child  can  set  it  up ; 
folds  flat  when  not  in 
use.  When  you  buy 
get  the  best.  Pre- 
serves health  and  will 
cure  a  hard  cold  with 
one  bath.  Prevents 
Fevers,  will  cure 
Pneumonia,  Asthma, 
La  Grippe,  Rheuma- 
tism, Headache, 
Diabetes, and  all  Skin 
and  Klood  diseases. 
No  household  can 
afford  to  be  without 
a  Standard  Bath 
Cabinet.  Think  of 
it  —  three  cents  for  a 
Turkishbath  athome. 
Will  be  sent  on  30 
days'  trial,  and  may 
be  returned  to  us,  at 
our  expense,  if  not 
found   satisfactory  in  every  way  and  as  repr?sented  by  us. 

Send  to-day  for  our  Bath  Book  giving  full  information  regard- 
ing our  Cabinets  and  the  many  good  results  obtained  by  their  use. 
GOOD  AGENTS  AND  in  every  county  to  open  Branch 
SALESMEN  WANTED     Offices  and  appoint  sub-agents. 

Good  Agents  make  from  $20  to  $50  a  week  selling 
our  STANDARD  CABINET. 

Write  to-day.     Don't  wait. 

THE  STANDARD  BATH  CABINET  CO. 

TOLEDO,     OHIO. 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention 


UNPREPAREDNESS. 
Yes,  Phyllis  went  to  keeping  house 

Ere  yet  it  had  occurred 
To  her  that  eggs  and  shirt-waists 
Are  differently  shirred. 

—  New  York  Journal. 


Don't  Experiment  for  Other  People's 
Benefit. —  Housekeepers  to-day  find  them- 
selves besieged  on  every  side  by  many  experi- 
mental so-called  "  breakfast  foods."  Why  is 
it  that  a  miller,  with  time  on  his  hands,  believes 
that  he  can  take  any  kind  of  cheap  oats  and 
give  them  a  coarse,  harsh,  careless  treatment 
and  call  it  a  "  breakfast  food  "  ? 

In  the  first  place,  it  takes  time,  then  it  takes 
money,  and  then  experience,  to  manufacture  a 
properly  balanced  breakfast  food ;  and  only  the 
highest  grade  oats  should  be  used. 

One  reason  why  Quaker  Oats  is  superior  is 
because  only  the  choicest,  healthiest  and  most 
carefully  selected  grain  secured  in  the  entire 
purchase  by  The  American  Cereal  Company 
goes  into  Quaker  Oats. 

This  company  purchases  more  oats,  many 
times  over,  than  any  other  concern  in  the 
world,  but  only  .the  very  best  of  them  go  into 
Quaker  Oats. 


To  any  subscriber  sending'  us  one  new 
yearly  subscription  at  SO  cents,  we  will 
send    postpaid,    as    a    premium,   a    set    of 


Original  Men  ^tiring- Spoons.  With  them 
absolute  accuracy  is  obtained  in  meas- 
uring QUARTER  TEASPOONS,  HALF 
TEASPOONS,  FULL   TEASPOONS. 

BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE. 


COOKING-SCHOOL  REPORTS. 

Cbe  Hew  England  farmer 

20  Devonshire  St.,  Boston, 

publishes  a  full  account  of  the  weekly  demonstra- 
tion lectures  at  the  Boston  Cooking -School.  It 
also  has  a  page  devoted  to  Domestic  Science, 
and  other  interests  of  women. 


Single  copies,  5  cents. 
3  months'  subscription,  50  cents. 

The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


m  $ 


C4/?Z,  ZERRAHN  says: 

"  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  state  that  I  have 
examined  the  McPhaii,  Upright  Pianos,  and  find 
them  most  excellent  instruments;  the  tone  is  even 
and  musical  throughout,  with  a  singing  quality 
rarely  found ;    and  the   touch,  workmanship  and 

construction  are  as 
1  — f  t~T     perfect  as  art,  care 
and     intelligence 
can  make  them." 


For  Sixty-One  Years 
Made  on  Honor — Sold  on  Merit. 


Our  Handsome  Illustrated  Catalogue,  FREE. 

SEND  FOK  IT. 

A.  M.  McPhail  Piano  Co., 

(Opposite  Hollis  Street.)  784  Washington  Street,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


| 


When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


COMPLETE  EGG  SEPARATOR 


WHITE 

FROM 

YOLK 

INSTANTLY 


No  Kitchen 
C  omplete 
without  it. 


Prepaid  to  any  address'Price25c 

FARR  Sl  CO. 

145  La  Salle  St. Chicago 


FLEISCHMANN'S 


VEGETABLE 
COMPRESSED 


Yeast 

HAS  NO  EQUAL 


<6 


••••THE  •••• 

KITCHEN  AND  HAND" 

•   •   •  ^VAf\r     •    •    • 


For  removing  Tar,  Pitch,  Cement,  Varnish,  Paint,  Axle 
Grease,  Blacking,  and  all  impurities  from  the  hands,  it  is 
unequaled,  leaving  the  skin  soft,  white  and  smooth. 

Beware  of  Imitations.     For  Sale  by  all  Grocers. 


CHAS.  F.  BATES  &  CO. 

Proprietors  and  Manufacturers, 

Office,  123  Oliver  St.,      -      -      -     Boston 

Factory.  Wollaston,  Mass. 

When  you  write  Advertisers,  please  mention  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine. 


mills  $K«i0bteo. 
Printers,  *  Design- 
ers,«  engravers,* 
iso  Congress  St., 
Boston.  «  «  «  «  « 


Jdostoi\  wooftii\g=Scftool, 

372  Boylston  Street. 
DEMONSTRATION    LECTURES 

Wednesdays,  from  October  28th  to  May    1st,  at    JO  A.M. 

TWELVE    LECTURES,  $5.00 
SINGLE   LECTURES,  50c. 

Lectures    for  Cooks,  Fridays,  at  7.45  P.  M. 

SINGLE    TICKET,   25c. 

Private   Classes  are  formed  October    1st. 


The  School  is  authority  on  Invalid  Cookery,  having  for  years  given  instruction  on 
that  subject  to  the  students  of  the  Harvard  Medical  School,  to  the  State  and  City 
Hospitals  of  Massachusetts  and  other  States. 

Hospitals  desiring  lectures  on  Invalid  Cookery  for  nurses  and  doctors,  or  copies  of 
the  Nurses'  Course  on  Sick-Room  Cookery,  should  make  application  to  the  School. 

Teachers  and  demonstrators  are  supplied. 


OUTLINE  OF  NORMAL  COURSE. 
Class  in  Session  from  January  until  July.    Tuition,  $J 25.00. 

Psychology  (examination):  Theoretical  and  Applied.  Thirty  lectures.  Mrs.  Caroline  D.  Jordan, 
Instructor. 

Chemistry  (examination):  Lectures.  Chemistry  of  Soap,  Bluing  and  Starch,  Laboratory  Practice. 
Thirty  lectures.     Mrs.  Caroline  D,  Jordan,  Instructor. 

Physiology  and  Hygiene  (examination) :  Ten  lectures.  Mr.  P.  G.  Stiles,  Massachusetts  Institute  of 
Technology,  Instructor. 

Bacteriology  (examination):  Twenty  lectures.  Dr.  G.  M.  Holman,  Massachusetts  Institute  of 
Technology,  Instructor." 

Cooking  Applied  to  Public-School  Work:  Twenty-four  lessons.  Miss  A.  G.  Hope,  Superintendent 
Boston  School  Kitchens,  Instructor. 

Observation  and  Assistance  at  Public  Schools;  Visits  to  Manufactories  of  Food  Supplies  and 
Marketing.     Two  to  three  hours  daily  for  three  months. 

Household  Sanitation  (elective):  Ten  lectures.  Mrs.  Alice  Peloubet  Norton,  Supervisor  of  Domestic 
Science,  Public  Schools,  Brookline,  Mass.,  Instructor. 

Cookery,  Laboratory  Practice  (with  examination):  Plain  and  Elaborate;  Individual  and  Invalid; 
Family  and  Institutions ;  Principles,  Methods,  History.     Three  to  four  hours  daily. 

Food,  Composition  and  Nutritive  Value  (examination). 

Laundry  Work  (examination) :    Theory  and  Practice.     Six  hours  weekly. 

MISS  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER,  Principal. 


Walter  Baker  &  Co's 
BREAKFAST 

COCOA. 


fa 


COSTS  LESS 

THAN 

ONE  CENT 

A  COP. 


BE  SURE  THAT 
THE  PACKAGE 

BEARS  OUR 
TRADE-MARK. 


ft 


«€€€€€€€* 


A  Perfect  Food.     Pure,  Nutritious,  Delicious. 


WALTER  BAKER  &  CO.  "mited 

established  1780. 

DORCHESTER,  MASS. 


KINGSFORD'S 

OSWEGO 

CORN  STARCH 


THE  ORIGINAL. 


FOR 


YRS. 


BEST  QUALITY  IS  GOOD  ECONOMY 


Y ^ 

$OUP$ 

OFTEN  LACK  RICHNESS 
AND  A  DELICACY  OF  FLAVOR. 
A  FAULT  EASILY  REMEDIED  BY  USING 

fc     LEA    & 


jfclfl&S^ 


PERRINS 
SAUCE 

r^OR,G.NALANOGeHUVHf- 
WORCESTERSHIRE.- 

It  has  more  Imitations 

than  any  other  brand 

ever  produced* 

*  John  Duncan's  5ons.  Ag'rs„  New  YorK.  j 


V 


Is  just  the  pure  juice  of  the  Concord  grape,  unchanged 
in  the  process  from  the  luscious  cluster  to  your  glass. 
It  is  without  a  drop  of  water  or  a  particle  of  alcohol, 
thus  making  it  an  ideal  home  drink. 

WELCH'S  GRAPE  JUICE  will  prove  an  inval- 
uable addition  to  the  menu.  As  a  table  beverage  it  is 
delicious.  Our  booklet  tells  of  many  ways  in  which 
it  may  be  used  in  the  making  of  desserts. 

Write  for  our  new  illustrated  booklet. 
Welch's  Grape  Juice  is  sold  by  leading  Drug- 
gists and  Grocers. 

THE  WELCH  GRAPE  JUICE  CO. 

WESTFIELD,  N.  Y. 


MILLS,  KNIGHT  A  CO.,  B08T0M. 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

JAN  23  1912 


3  9999  06385  380  6 


