Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


F <Uc  ^^n  y^''7 


Harvard  College 
Ubrarj 


By  Exchange 


.     \ 


r 


The 


Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


OF 


Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics 


Volume  XVIII 


June-July,    1913— May,    1914 


Published  Monthly  by 
THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  COMPANY 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


Hf.r.v.'.iD  coiLEas  ixt^Mv 

BY  UCHANQE 


Copyright,  1913,  1914,  by  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine  Co. 


COMPLETE   INDEX,   VOLUME  XVIII 

June-July,  1913— May,  1914 


Page 

A  Blackberry  Dessert 132 

A  Cheer  Song     365 

A  Fortnight  in  Berlin 753 

A  Happy  New  Year     437 

A  Home  of  the  Past  and  present    .   .   .  267 

A  Modern  Valentine     523 

An  Attractive  Living  Room 11 

An  August  Song Ill 

An  Experiment  in  Economics 199 

A  Poetical  Laundress 24 

Arcady 764 

A  Reversion  to  Type 507 

A  Side  Light  on  High  Cost  of  Living  524 

A  Small  New  England  Country  Home,  111.  347 

A  Square  Deal  for  the  Milk  Bottle     .   .  763 

As  to  Those  Five  and  Ten-Cent  Meals    .  438 

Autumn  Days 270 

A  Yard  of  Rhubarb      196 

Ballad  of  Too  Much  Beauty      16 

Beyond  the  Soup 353 

Breakfast  at  Eight     680 

Brick  and  Mortar  Gardens      703 

Bucolic  Opinions  on  Fletcherizing    .   .   .  751 

California's  Winter  Celery  Crop    ....  271 

Christmas  Birds      '.    .  357 

Cold  Dishes  for  Hot  Days 50 

College  Cooking      136 

De-natured  Alcohol 139 

Diet  in  Uric  Acid  Disorders 220 

Do  Men  Want  Efficient  Wives?    ....  273 

Dreams 363 

Editorials 30.  118,  206,  286,  366, 

446,  526,  606,  686,  766 

Efficiency  in  Home-making 109 

Eliminating  Non-essentials      760 

Enchantment     462 

English  and  American  Homes 515 

Essentials  in  Happy  Home-Making     .    .  192 

Finding  Ourselves  in  Wales 115 

Five  and  Ten-Cent  Meals      309 

Frost  Fairies 541 

Harmony  in  Home  Surroundings     .   .   .  141 

He  Careth     604 

Her  Heart-Warming 276 

Home  Ideas  and  Economies     .   .  56,  143,  224 

303,  383,  467,  547,  625,  705,  785 

How  Honest  Are  We?     54 

How  One  Bride  Learned  Efficiency     .   .  282 

How  Miss  Janet  Grew  Young 105 

In  Its  Own  Country      364 

In  October 191 

Keeping  House  in  the  Margins  of  the  Day  134 

Linens  for  the  Fair  Bride 440 

Making  the  Boarding-House  a  Business  542 
Making  the  Home  Comfortable  for  Sum- 
mer        53 

Making  the  Kitchen  Attractive 197 

March     686 

Margaret's  Kitchen 307 

Meeting  the  Problem  of  Living    ....  605 

Menus,  41,  97.  129,  185,  219,  265.  298.  345,  377, 

425,  458,  505,  537,  617.  698,  745,  111 

Millicent's  Christmas  Offerings     ....  361 

Mothering  Our  Girls 358 

Mrs.  Jessup's  Birthday  Cake     17 


Pag9 

Neighborhood  Clubs      25 

New  Books 123,  394,  718 

New  Ways  of  Serving 236 

Qne  Practice  House      99 

Opening  Boston's  New  Fish  Pier    ...  747 

Ornamental  Clocks  of  France,  111.    .   .   .  431 

Our  Daily  Bread 619,  700,  780 

Our  Home  in  the  Hickories 667 

Piazza  Spreads  for  June-July 9 

Placing  the  Family  Pride 518 

Polly's  Course  in  Designing 765 

Preparation  of  Three  Meals  a  Day    .  300,  460 

Reducing  Time  Spent  in  the  Kitchen   .   .  622 

Remodeling  the  Christmas  Dinner    .   .   .  379 

Saint  Valentine 546 

Science  and  Food 137 

September      114 

Simple  Living      . 52 

Service 590 

Story  of  an  Interior,  111 427 

Tea  at  the  Blue  Ship      436 

The  Abiding 518 

The  Artistic  Use  of  Housefurnishings    .  28 

The  Art  of  Basket-Making 187 

The  Big    Four 463 

The  Burned  Meringue      602 

The  Candle  Light      276 

The  Deleted  Lines     512 

The  Garden  of  Eden 683 

The  Girl  Who  Cooked 201 

The  Golden  Days 112 

The  Hardworker's  Monument 22 

The  Honeymoon     29 

The  Lady  of  the  Angel  Cake 596 

The  Lyric  of  Life      117 

The  Marriage  of  Emily 676 

The  Road      759 

The  Sweetness  of  the  Hour      600 

The  Valentine  Doll 513 

The  Value  of  Diet  Fads .  520 

The  Vigil   Keepers 446 

The  Wane  of  the  Year 281 

Transmutation      27 

Twilight  Fraternity 195 

Two  City  Girls  Pioneering  in  Arizona  434,  591 

Two  House-mothers 280 

Wanderlust 757 

Watch  Your  Step 442 

Welcome  and  Unwelcome  Guests    .   .   .  284 

What  a  European  Trip  May  Teach    .   .  545 

What  Constitutes  a  Good  Table   ....  757 

When  the  Cooky  Jar  is  Full 310 

When  the  Year  is  New 465 

Where  is  Your  Thone  ? 308 

Whispers 750 

Women  of  the  Pushcart  Market      .   .   .  597 
Seasonable  Recipes  : 

Almonds,  Deviled 210 

Apples,  Jellied,  111 294 

Apples,  Stuffed,  111 294 

Apricots,  Frozen,  111 457 

Beans.  Lima  in  Cream     36 

Beans,  Wax,  Scotch  Style 294 

Beef,  Filet  of.  with  Artichoke  Bottoms, 

Barigoule,  III 603 


m 


FJiu^  ^yyj>  9/7 


Harvard  College 
Ubraiy 


By  Exchange 


The 


Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


OF 


Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics 


Volume  XVIII 


June-July,    1913— May,    1914 


Published  Monthly  ky 
THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  COMPANY 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


iAmmm** 


The  Best  Dumplings 


You  Ever  Ate 

Perfectly  raised,  ligrht  and  delicious  if  you  will  use 

PUMFORD 

M^L^        THE  WHOLESOME 

BAKISG  POWDER 

For  producing  food  of  most  delicious  flavor,  and  perfect  lightness 
and  wholesomeness,  there  is  no  baking  Powder  in  the  world  to  equal 
Rumford— it 

Makes  DIgestlhle  Fi 


/    /    ' 


A   COMPANION    VOLUME   TO    "THE 
BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  COOK-BOOK" 

A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 

PTitk  Eight  Co/ore  J  Plates  and  more  than  Two  Hundred  Illustrations  in  Half-  Tom 

440  Pages.     Cloth,  $1.60,  net.     By  mail,  |1.7S 

The  "New  Book  of  Cookery"  contains  more  than 
eight  hundred  recipes  upon  all  branches,  including  many 
new  and  important  dishes  not  to  be  found  in  any  other 
work. 

An  almost  indispensable  companion  to  the  author's 
invaluable  "  Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book." 

This  book  presents  the  latest  triumphs  of  the  culinary  art. 
It  is  very  fully  and  attractively  illustrated. — New   York  Sun, 

LITTLE,  BROWN  &  CO.,  Publishers,   -    -    BOSTON 

-    A*  u 


y 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Painltd  iy  Galen  J.  Pcmtl  for  Crtam  tl  Wktal  Co.  Cofiyrigtl  1913  far  Crtmm  tl  Wknt  Ct. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING- 
SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 

Vol.  XVni  JUNE- JULY,  1013  No.  1 


CONTENTS  FOR  JUNE-JULY 

PAOB 

PIAZZA  SPREADS  FOR  JUNE-JULY 9 

AN  ATTRACTIVE  LIVING-ROOM  (Illustrated)     .    W.  F.  H.  11 

BALLAD  OF  TOO  MUCH  BEAUTY 16 

MRS.  JESSUP'S  BIRTHDAY  CAKE   .    .    .  Anna  W.  Morrison  17 

THE  HARDWORKER'S  MONUMENT    .    .   Madeline  Burrage  22 

A  POETICAL  LAUNDRESS    .     .     .   Harriet  Whitney  Symonds  24 

NEIGHBORHOOD  CLUBS Luella  Bussenius  25 

TRANSMUTATION Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson  27 

THE  ARTISTIC  USE  OF  HOUSEFURNISHINGS 

Minnie  C.  Anderson  28 

THE  HONEYMOON Leslie  Davis  29 

EDITORIALS 80 

SEASONABLE   RECIPES  ( Illustrated  with  half-tone  engravings 

of  prepared  dishes) Janet  M.  Hill  33 

MENUS  FOR  WEEK  IN  JUNE «      «      .<  41 

MENUS  FOR  WEEK  IN  JULY «      «      .<  45 

MENUS  FOR  BOYS,  14-16  YEARS  OLD,  Jessamine  Chapman  42-44 

KEEPING  WELL  IN  SUMMER  .    .      Minnie  Genevieve  Morse  46 

COLD  DISHES  FOR  HOT  DAYS  ....     Marion  C.  Kellar  50 

SIMPLE  LIVING Jane  Bsrr  52 

HOW  HONEST  ARE  WE? Alice  M.  Ashton  64 

HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 56 

Drinking  Water  in  the  Sumni^r  Camp  —  The  Value  of  Fruit  Juice  — 

Housekeeping,  Wise  and  Otherwise  —  Something  New  in  Olives  —  English 

MufTins  and  Crumpets. 

QUERIES  AND  ANSWERS 61 

NEW  BOOKS 70 

MISCELLANEOUS 78 


91.00  A  YEAR  PablUhed  Ten  Times  a  Year  10c  A  COPY 

Fonr  Years'   Subscription,   $3.00 

Ealatad  at  Boatoa  post-offlca  aa  aacoad'claaa  aiattar.    Copyright.  1913,  bjr 

THE     BOSTON     COOKING     SCHOOL     MAGAZINE     COMPANY 

372  BOYLSTON    STREET  BOSTON.  MASSACHUSETTS 


Please  Renew  on  Receipt  of  the  Colored  Blank  Etidosed  for  that  Purpose 

2 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


^  if  made  from  lard  it's  bound 

to  be  greasy  and  indigestible,  and  isn't  good 
for  their  little  stomachs;  if  made  from  butter, 
it's  too  expensive — at  present  butter  prices. 

Cottolene 

is  far  better  than  lard  because  it  is  a  vegetable 
product,  never  makes  food  greasy,  never  causes 
indigestion.  It  is  the  equal  of  butter  at  about 
one-third  the  price.    So  why  be  extravagant? 

Feed  the  "kiddies"  their  fill  of  pastry — if  made 
from  Cottolene  it  won't  harm  them. 

Cottolene  is  both  economical  and  healthful. 

Try  this  Recipe: 

DOUGHNUTS 


Three  tebleipooni  Ctltitrnt  Three-quartere  cup  lugar 

Three  egg  yoUi     One  white  One-quarter  cup  milk 

Twa  and  one-half  eupa  flour  One  cup  freahly  maahed  potaloee 

One-half  teaepoon  lall  Tfaiec  teaapoona  baking  powder 

One-halt  teaipooa  granulated  mace;  One-quarter  leaipoon  granulated  nutmeg- 
Cream  the  CailaUne,  add  augar,  than  the  egga,  itlr  in  potato  and  milk,  add 
flour  gradually;  uae  more  if  neceiaaiy.  Roll  and  cut  all  doughnuta  needed 
before  frying.     Fry  in  deep  CsiiaUne. 


Hade  only  by  THE  N.  K.  FAIRBANK  COHPANY 
Approptd     hy     Iht     Wtrntfimli     Board     of     Htalth 

Bujr  ftdrertiicd  Good*  —  donotaccept  ubititutct 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Domestic  Science 


Home- Study  Courses 
Food,    health,   bousekevplDg,    dothli 


chlMien 


.     „.  LhiDK. 

I,  tcftdien  u>d  t 
weU-paid  poiitioiu. 
'THE  PROFESSION  OF  HOHE-HAKING."  100 
handbook.  FREE.     Balletiiu  :  "Fuc  Ha>i> 

Dfo,"  10  cento.     "Food  Valvh,"  10  cents. 

"  Tmt  Up-To-DiT«  Home,"  1&  c«ota. 

U.  SCHOOL  OF  HME  EGOMNBS,  503  W.  BMh  «.,CIIICUO 


Cook 


lect  Cooking 


Mb— bftter  than 


ror  llMlf  In  betler 
indW%fa«Iutliic. 


•iKDd  Bitot.  Para 
betler  food  and 


|HA|ITCn  A  dietician  to  BUper*U«  kll  the  cooking 
*"*""•*'  In  a  large  hotplUl  located  in  Peuturf- 
vania.  cont^nlng  4&0  tnds,  116  of  which  areprivate. 
Unit  be  buainesi  and  a  manager.  Alio,  a  dietician 
for  the  diet  kitchen.  Salair  $70.00  and  t£0.00  re- 
■pectiTel7.  Addreu  "A,"  Boaton  Cooking  School 
llagaiine,  Boston,  Mass. 


INDEX   FOR   JUNE-JULY 

A  Poetical  Laundress 24 

An  Attractive  Liviog  Room  ....  II 

Ballad  of  Too  Much  Beauty 16 

Cold  Dishes  for  Hot   Days SO 

Editorials 30 

Home  Ideas  and  Economies 56 

How  Honest  Are  We? 54 

Making     the     Home     Comfortable     for 

Summer 53 

Menus 41-45 

Mrs.  Jessup's  Birthday  Cake 17 

Neighborhood  Clubs 25 

Piazza  Spreads   for  June-July 9 

Simple  Living 52 

The  Honeymoon 29 

The  Artistic  Use  of  Ho  use  furnishings  .   .  28 

The  Hardworkers'  Monument 22 

Transmutation       27 

Seasonable  Recipes  : 

Beans,  Lima  in  Cre  -m 36 

Cream,  Rice  Bavarian,  III 38 

Croutons,    Cheese 36 

Eggs,  i  la  Aurora 34 

Eggs,  Baked  with  Cheese 34 

Eggs,  Canada  Style 34 

Eggs,  Stuffed  with   Bread  Sauce     ...  35 
Jellied  Fish  and  Ham  in   Molds,  with 

Lettuce,  Eic 

Meringue,    Almond,    Strawberries    and 

Cream.     Ill 38 

Potatoes,  with  Maitre  d'Holel  Butter.  Ill  33 

Pie,  Butter  Scotch 40 

Pilau  a  la  Turtjiie,  III 35 

Rhubarb,   Bavariose 37 

Salad,  Cherry  Aspic,  III 37 

Sandwiches,  Cheese 36 

Sardines,    Broiled 33 

Shortcake,     Strawberry,     with     Marsh- 
mallow  Sauce.  Ill 39 

Sponge.    Banana,    111 38 

Sponge,  Pineapple 38 

Tlmtrales.  Chicken       36 

Toast.  Tomato  Cream 36 

White    Pish,    Mackerel    and    Bluefish, 

Broiled 33 


QuEKiEs  AND  Answess: 

Asparagus  and  Endive,  Cooked    ....  68 

Bread.    Rye-Mea! 62 

Bar-le-Due      66 

Cake.  Nut,  with  Marshmallow  Frosting  61 

Caramel,    For    Coloring 68 

Chicken.  Uses  for  Cooked    ......  68 

Coffee  Extract 66 

Eggs,  Coddled 66 

Figs,    Euchered 62 

Nuts.    Pistachio 68 

Omelets.  French  and  Puffy 62 

Sandwiches,  Club-house 61 

Sardine  Mayonnaise 68 

Sauce.  Melba.  Raspberry 62 

Viscogen  in  Whipping  Cream    ....  62 

Wafers,    Oatmeal 61 


Buy  advertised  Goods  — do  not  a 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


MRS. 

RORER'S 

SUMMER 

BOOKS 


FULL  OF 

bright 
helpful 
palatable 
delicious 

RECIPES 


The  price  is 

nothing  compared 

to  the  wonderful 

values  contained 

in  the  books 


Ice  Creams,  Water  Ices, 
Frozen  Puddings,  etc. 

Mrs.  Rorer*s  new  book,  just  published.  Mrs.  Rorer 
has  never  done  any  better  work  than  this.  It  contains 
the  famous  Philadelphia  Ice  Creams,  Neapolitan  Ice 
Creams,  Water  Ices,  Frozen  Puddings  and  Desserts, 
Frozen  Fruits,  Sherbets,  Sorbets,  Frappe,  Parfait, 
Mousse,  Sauces  for  Ice  Creams,  and  a  Department  of 
Refreshments  for  all  Social  Affairs  and  Suggestions 
for  Church  Suppers. 

Cloth,  75  cents ;  by  mail,  85  cents. 

Canning  and  Preserving 

Put  up  your  own  fruits,  etc.  Don't  rely  on  factory 
goods.  Your  own  are  more  wholesome,  and  you  know 
what  they  contain  and  how  they  are  put  up.  There  is 
pleasure  in  it,  too.  You  can  be  sure  of  your  results  by 
taking  Canning  and  Preserving  for  your  guide.  Tells 
how  to  can  and  preserve  fruits  and  vegetables,  how  to 
make  jams,  jellies,  marmalades,  fruit  butters,  syrups, 
etc. 

Cloth,  75  cents ;  by  mail,  85  cents. 

Hot  Weather  Dishes 

Don't  wear  yourself  out  thinking  over  the  hot  weather 
daily  bill  of  fare.  Get  this  book  and  enjoy  the  comfort 
it  brings.  Full  of  the  most  delightful  things  to  tickle 
the  jaded  appetite  and  put  spirit  into  the  household. 

Cloth,  50  cents ;  by  mail,  55  cents. 


Mrs.  Rorer's  New  Cook  Book 

A  wonderful  book  of  over  700  pages  of  the  best  things  in  cookery.     Choice,  new 
and  rare  recipes.     Beautif':lly  illustrated. 

Washable  cloth,  $2.00 ;  by  mail,  $2.20. 

Mrs.  Rorer's  Philadelphia  Cook  Book 

The  housekeeper's  standby.     Over  135,000  sold.     The  book  is  the  epitome  of  all 
that 's  good  in  cookery.    For  the  beginner  as  well  as  the  experienced  cook. 

Washable  cloth,  $1.00;  by  mail,  $1.15. 
Of  all  bookstores  and  department  stores,  or  of 

ARNOLD  &  COMPANY,  420  Sansom  Street,  Philadelphia 


Buy  advertised  goods — do  not  accept  substitutes 

5 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Favors  and 
Table  Decorations 


SWineiirGBIRDS.baUnrc 
decided  aor'eltr.     All  Uie  i 


indle*. 


Boi  i>t<l.4Sc.  iMMtpald. 

rAHCT  BASIETS.  Terr  dtlnty.  Boi 
ore.  4flc.  poatpmid. 

■OSE  FETAL  tCB  CUrS.  for  ice  cream. 
Cftndiea. ulted nutg. etc.  BoiofS.red. 
pink.  reUow.  or  white.  00c.  per  box. 
p»lp>id. 

TLUK  ICE  CUPS.BoI  of  s.lSe.iKMt. 
paid. 

BOUND  rtrEIDANASI  DOILIES,  not 

perforated.    ■  dm. inpk|. 

Per  pkc,  pottptid. 

S  Incb.  aOc.        8  Incli.  SOc. 

t  incti,  39a.        ti  inch,  7Ac. 

Tinch   SOc. 

CUSSEBOLE  rilLLS  er  r»  COIUIS. 

CBOr  rUlLS.  ZOc.  Un%. 


THE  BOSTOH  COOHNB^CHOOL  IMGtZIIE,  Borfw,llhw. 


SEND  U3  two  NEW  yearly 
Subscr^ithm  at  $1.00  each  and 
We  will  renew  your  own  sab- 
tcripUon  otw  year  free,  as  pre- 

THE  BOSTOH  COOKING-SCHOOL 

KAGAZINE  CO. 

BOSTOH,  HASSACHDSETTS 


NEWEST,  QUICKEST  OVEN 

SAVKSI-a  FUCL-1-2TIME 
r*r  Abt  StoTi.  6u,  CmL  Vm«,  EIc 
Baku  •mrDUnt  >  iteh.diUeloai,  erlqtf 

N«««r  Burni  or  6oor«h*a 

JolliSw"-     ^o  Iroubl.,  no  -orrj.     W»U 
mtdioItbHt  ■ml.^tacdthroDBtaonl.    Hu 

'*""  PATENTED 

HEAT   CONCENTRATOR  I 

wbtihe»t«iu(dHTuittlrliirlu    '      ~    ' " 

.  lilnBnUdpr 

J.  r,  CBHHOLLT.  IWC.    113  LIBEITT  ST.,  HEW  TOtI 


We  have  an 

Attractive 

Proposition 

to  make  to  those  who 
will  take  subscriptions  for 

TUB  BOSTON 

eooKiJVG'SeHooi. 
luacaziNB 

Write  us  for  it  if  you 
wish  to  canvass  youi 
town  or  if  you  wish  to 
secure  only  a  few 
names  among  yout 
friends  and  acquaint- 
ances. Start  the  work 
at  once  and  you  will  be 
surprised  how  easily 
you  can  earn  ten,  twen- 
ty or  fifty  dollars. 

Addro. 
SUBSCRIPTION  DEPARTMENT 

Boston 

eookini  -School 

Magazine  Bo. 

BOSTON,   MASSACHUSETTS 


Bu7  advertued  Good!  —  do  not  Mcept  mbititntei 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Rwidairt  EvaporatMl 


CranbBny  Reoeipti . 


Six  valnable  recalpta 
■n«ll*d  with  each  pack- 
■<•  KaKlaU's  Evapora- 
l«d  Craabcrrlea. 

SEE  ADV.  ON 
OUTSIDE  COVER 


Better  bread  uid  more  of  it — that 
is  a  good  modem  ideaL 

Fleischmann's  Yeast 

helps  it  to  come  true.  It  makes  it 
eas7  to  make  good  bread.  -  Our  new 
Recipe  Book  tells  how. 


The  Fleischmann  Company 

711  WaiMsflm  SIml  K«w  Twk  Ctty 


PRACTICAL  BINDERS  for 

BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


imtelr  Ic 


1  (Teen,  red  andMralMckruu, 
Each  hold!  coDTenlcntlr  from 


one  to  ten  copic*  ( ■  roll  rear)  or  the  mwimiie. 

Ai  (Uerei*  puUkhol  ia  Ibe  lut  Dumber  (Mbt)  of  eub  lohimo  acom- 

plete  i  odei.  br  prefentna  the  ma^iliiMlD  abiDderonewUlluTeat  the 

end  of  the  ^tar  a  complete  book  on  cooUnc  and  hoBMhold  science 

bandy  for  reference  at  all  timea. 

TO  ANT  prewntiutaBcrlberwhoaendaui  una  aaw  labacriptlon  atti  we 

bindera.     Price  SOc„  poitpaid.     Addresi 

BOSTON  COOKINO-SCHOOL  HAOAZINE 
372  Boylaton  Street.  Boston,  Haas. 


NEW  and  REVISED 

Practical  Cooking  and  Serving 

by  JANCT  McKENZli:  HILL 

has  been  revised  lately  and  many  ne-w  recipes   and  illustra- 
tions added,  and 

The  PRICE  REDUCED  TO  Sli^o  Net. Postap  20c 

so  tHat  e  veryone   may  iio-w  secure   a  copy  of  tKe   most  com- 
plete and  serviceable  cooK  booK  published. 

Hie  ndpei  Id  this  book  bave  beeo  teated  by 
jeu*  of  noe  at  the  autbor'a  borne  table,  and  by 
ber  pnpiU  North  Bud  South,  East  and  Wert. 

The  CompoalUoD  of  Pood*  la  given  at  the 
bead  of  chapters  In  which  the  aeveral  foods  are 
tpedflcaUy  detcribed. 

Prom  ■  recent  letter  to  the  anthor  "t  already  ban 


It  boldi  redpea   for  both 
elaborate  dishes. 

It  la  tally  and  finely  Ulnstiated. 

Tlie  diiccUona  for  pntting  materials 
are  explldt  and  reliable. 

The  "REASON  WHY"  things  are 


The  BOSTON  COOKINO  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO.      BOSTON,  MASS. 


Bujr  sdvertiied  Goods  — do  not  accept  snbititntu 


Piazza  Spreads,  June -July 


€t 


*Muskmelons  and  grapefruit  ntay  be  al- 
lowed to  precede  a  meal,  if  served  without 
ice,  which  certainly  impairs  their  flavor** — 
Finck, 


Fresh  Strawberries  in  Halves  of  Melon 

Creamed  Chicken,  Peas  and  Peppers 

(in  chafing  dish) 

Buttered  Biscuit 

Frozen  Apricots 

Sponge  Cake 

Coffee 

II 

Clam  Broth,  with  Cream 

Chicken  Croquettes,  Green  Peas 

Buttered  Rolls 

Mayonnaise  of  Lettuce  and  Tomatoes 

Strawberry  or  Raspberry  Ice  Cream 

Macaroons 
Coffee 

III 

Cold  Roast  Chicken,  Sliced  Thin 
Creamed  Potatoes      Asparagus  Salad 

Buttered  Rolls 
Rice   Bavarian   Cream,  Strawberries  or 

Raspberries 
Coffee 

IV 

Cheese  Croquettes 
Lettuce  and  Tomatoes,  French  Dressing 

(with  Chives) 

Bread-and-Butter  Sandwiches 

Raspberry  Shortcake,   Hot  Marshmallow 

Sauce 
Coffee 


Cream  of  Spinach  Soup 

Veal   Loaf       Potatoes   Maitre  d'  Hotel 

Lettuce,  with  Cherries,   in  Jelly, 

French  Dressing 

Meringues,  with  Whipped  Cream  and 

Berries 
Coffee 


The 

Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


Vol.  XVIII 


JUNE-JULY,  1913 


No.  1 


An  Attractive  Living  Room 


Bv  W.  F.  H. 


THE  living-room,  in  which  the 
family  gathers  every  day,  should 
be  the  most  attractive  room  in 
the  house,  as  it  is  the  most  important. 
Combining  as  it  does  the  functions  of 
parlor  and  reception-room,  library  and 
sitting-room,  its  manifold  uses  should 
lend  it  a  charm  of  expression,  if  worked 
out  with  painstaking  intelligence. 

The  real  essentials  are  that  it  should 
be  cleanly,  cheerful,  and  comfortable. 
When  these  ends  have  been  gained,  it 
will  be  surprising  if  we  do  not  find  the 
room  beautiful,  provided  that  we  have 
taken  due  care  to  break  none  of  the  well- 
known  laws  of  harmony. 

In  order  to  insure  perfect  cleanliness, 
in  accordance  with  sanitary  standards  of 
the  present  day,  we  have  discarded  in  a 
large  measure  the  heavy  and  cumbrous 
hangings  which  were  in  vogue  only  a 
few  years  ago.  Portieres,  carpets,  and 
heavy  window  draperies  are  looked  upon 
with  disfavor,  and  in  their  place  we  have 
rugs  and  washable  hangings. 

To  promote  cheerfulness,  we  prefer  a 
light,  trim  and  inconspicuous  wall  cover- 
ing, with  restful  lines  and  effects  in  both 
furnishings  and  architecture.  We  choose 
cheerful  subjects  in  pictures.  We  tone 
up  dark  and  sombre  colorings  with 
touches  bright  and  attractive. 

In  making  the  room  comfortable,  we 
find  it  necessary  to  use  furnishings  along 


Colonial  lines,  or  along  those  of  the  mod- 
ern Mission  and  Craftsman  types.  We 
try  to  have  a  fireplace,  for  warmth  and 
companionship.  We  favor  built-in  seats 
for  the  bay  window  and  for  the  ingleside. 

The  older  idea  of  a  number  of  small 
separate  rooms  was  a  good  one  for  the 
days  when  stoves  furnished  our  only 
heating  apparatus;  but  for  the  present 
time,  when  heated  houses  are  the  rule, 
it  will  be  found  more  convenient  Sfmany 
cases  to  throw  two  or  three  small  rooms 
into  one,  by  removing  partitions.  In  the 
case  of  old  houses  having  front  and  back 
parlors,  the  union  of  the  two  by  taking 
down  the  division  will  convert  the  whole 
into  a  delightful  living-room. 

In  a  house  where  alterations  or  re- 
pairs are  necessarily  being  made,  such  a 
change  can  well  be  secured  at  little  addi- 
tional cost,  by  having  it  put  into  the 
original  estimate.  It  is  well  to  be  sure 
that  the  items  include  such  details  as 
built-in  seats,  bookcases,  or  china  closets, 
together  with  wainscoting  and  cross- 
beamed  ceilings,  if  they  are  desired,  as 
the  lumping  of  the  details  together  often 
effects  a  considerable  saving. 

When  remodeling  is  being  done,  it  is 
well  to  remember  that  all  the  woodwork 
for  a  living-room  should  be  plain  to  the 
point  of  severity,  especially  in  houses  of 
moderate  cost.  Basswood,  whitewood, 
or  white  pine,  make  a  very  good  finish 


11 


12 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


where  the  trim  is  to  be  light  paint.  If 
a  stain  is  desired,  it  is  well  to  use  some 
wood  with  more  beautiful  grain,  as  yel- 
low pine,  ash,  or  chestnut. 

The  furniture  should  harmonize  with 
the  trim,  as  far  as  possible,  but  good 
Craftsman  lines  ought  to  harmonize  with 
anything;  so  would  good  Colonial,  and 
the  useful  wicker  furniture,  which  can 
be  used  in  its  natural  color  until  we  tire 
of  it,  and  then  can  be  stained  green, 
brown,  or  mahogany. 

In  general,  a  plain  wall  covering  will 
give  most  satisfaction  in  a  room  of  this 
character,  where  the  number  of  objects 
makes  an  unobtrusive  background  espe- 
cially effective.  If  a. paper  with  a  pro- 
nounced figure  were  used  here,  much  of 
the  charm  of  the  room  would  vanish.  A 
plain  effect  as  a  background  is  absolutely 
necessary  in  any  room  where  there  are 
many  pictures  and  much  bric-a-brac. 

Color  combinations  are  always  hard  to 
suggest,  but  we  will  suppose  that  a  red 
room  is  wanted,  to  convey  the  impression 


of  warmth  and  cheer,  while  the  furniture 
is  mostly  oak,  of  the  Mission  type.  A 
very  pleasant  effect  would  result  from 
combining  an  ivory  ceiling  with  soft  red 
walls,  in  plain  or  two-toned  paper.  Let 
the  trim  be  light  Flemish,  the  tiles  of  the 
fireplace  green,  the  curtains  dull  green, 
the  rug  a  mixture  of  red,  green,  and 
ivory,  or  tan,  with  red  predominating. 

A  very  good  effect  for  a  living-room 
results  from  the  combination  of  green 
with  blue,  two  colors  whose  blending  is 
most  pleasing  when  done  properly.  One 
satisfactory  method  would  be  to  combine 
a  slate  green  ceiling  with  side  walls  of 
olive  and  a  trim  of  olive  brown.  Choose 
curtains  of  Gobelin  blue,  and  rugs  and 
upholstery  of  green  and  blue,  with  a 
dash  of  orange. 

When  blue  and  green  are  combined,  a 
third  color  used  sparingly  adds  to  the 
harmony.  Since  orange  is  the  comple- 
ment of  blue,  its  use  with  blue  makes  a 
harmony  of  contrast.  At  the  same  time, 
it    forms   an   analc^;ous   harmony    with 


LIVING  ROOM  IN  MIS 


AN    ATTRACTIVE    LIVING    ROOM 


LIVING  ROOM.  SHOWING  STAIRWAY.  ETC, 


green,  because  both  orange  and  green  are 
composed  in  part  of  the  same  color, 
which  is  yellow. 

Now  another  good  way  to  combine 
these  two  colors,  and  such  a  combination 
has  enjoyed  great  popularity  this  year, 
would  be  to  combine  an  old  ivory  ceiling 
with  Gobelin  blue  walls  and  a  trim  of 
medium  olive.  Lei  the  curtains  be  dull 
green,  and  the  rugs  and  upholstery  blue, 
mingled  with  olive  green  and  a  little  clear 
yellow,  but  with  blue  strongly  predomi- 
nating. Here  we  should  have  a  related 
harmony,  instead  of  a  complementary, 
because  green  is  formed  by  mixing  blue 
and  yellow. 

As  the  piano  has  to  stand  in  the  living- 
room,  and  forms  its  largest  piece  of 
furniture,  we  can  sometimes  gather  val- 
uable suggestions  for  furnishing  from 
simply  considering  the  kind  of  wood  in 
its  case.  Take  the  instance  of  a  living- 
room  where  the  piano  case  is  mahogany, 
and  there  is  also  a  mahogany  table  and 
old-fashioned  desk.  The  white  trim 
shows  scars,  and  the  owner  is  tired  of 
white  paint,  and  also  tired  of  green  cart- 
ridge paper.     She  longs   for  a  change. 


and  the  room  needs  renovating. 

Now  white  trim  with  mahogany  furni- 
ture is  always  safe,  but  if  we  tire  of  it, 
we  must  not  deem  it  inevitable.  There 
is  another  combination  fully  as  charm- 
ing, and  that  is  its  union  with  old  rose 
and  silver. 

The  trim  must  be  gone  over  in  pearl 
gray  enamel,  and  one  coat  will  suffice, 
unless  the  white  is  badly  scarred.  Then 
put  on  a  ceiling  paper  of  pearl-gray  with 
silver  stars,  and  a  side  wall  of  pearl-gray 
ground  with  very  small  dull  pink  roses 
and  gray-green  leaves  climbing  up  sil- 
vered stripes.  Your  rug  will  do.  It  has 
green  and  mahogany  predominating,  with 
glimpses  of  gray  and  pink.  See  that  all 
the  fixtures  are  silvered.  Put  up  cer- 
tains of  old  rose  cotton  crepe,  and  por- 
tieres of  the  same  material ;  or,  if  you 
prefer  the  rajah  for  its  uneven  weave, 
get  both  hangings  in  that ;  or  get  the  por- 
tieres in  rajah  and  the  curtains  in  sheer 
China  silk.  The  old  rose  coloring  is  the 
vital  point;  your  taste  must  govern  ma- 
terial. See  that  your  couch  cover  has 
old  rose  predominating,  shot  with  green 
and    silver.      Let    the   cushions    incline 


14 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


strongly  toward  old  rose,  with  mere  hints 
of  the  other  two  colorings.  The  result 
will  be  charming. 

The  cheerfulness  of  many  living- 
rooms  is  impaired  by  the  disproportion- 
ate hight  of  the  ceiling,  when  compared 
with  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  floor 
space.  This  is  a  fault  more  common  in 
city  houses  than  in  country  homes.  It 
makes  less  difference  in  a  formal  parlor 
than  in  any  other  room  in  the  house,  be- 
cause such  an  apartment  is  not  marred  by 
distance  and  stateliness ;  but  a  living- 
room  should  be  cosy  and  homelike.  The 
housebuilder  should  see  to  it  that  its  in- 
viting charm  is  not  sacrificed  to  undue  ■ 
hight  of  ceiling. 

For  those  of  us  who  may  not  build 
our  own  houses,  but  must  perforce  in- 
herit the  mistakes  of  former  architects 
and  occupants,  the  case  is  not  hopeless. 
The  artful  introduction  of  horizontal 
lines  will  do  much  to  reduce  this  diffi- 
culty. The  color  used  in  the  ceiling  can 
be  brought  down  upon  the  side  wall  at 
least  eighteen  inches,  with  a  picture 
molding   to   cover  its   joining   with  the 


covering  of  the  side  wall  proper.  A 
wainscoting  can  be  extended  up  from 
the  floor  to  a  hight  of  four  or  five  feet 
and  capped  by  another  molding  as  a 
finish.  There  is  jio  roorfi  in  any  house 
which  is  not  improved  by  a  suitable 
wainscot,  and  such  is  their  infinite  va- 
riety that  one  may  be  selected  to  suit  any 
room,  at  a  cost  to  suit  any  purse. 

Where  the  trim  is  white  and  the  effect 
Colonial,  the  plaster  between  the  base- 
board and  chair-rail  can  be  painted 
white,  like  the  woodwork,  and  makes  a 
very  good  substitute  for  wainscoting. 
Another  popular  substitute  is  made  by 
laying  strips  against  a  burlap  backing. 
Where  the  trim  is  chestnut,  use  chestnut 
strips  about  three  inches  wide,  laid  in 
panel  effect  against  a  burlap  wall-cover- 
ing of  tan  or  green.  Finish  by  a  plain 
chestnut  molding  about  five  feet  from 
the  floor.  The  number  of  strips  and  the 
resulting  width  of  the  panels  must  de- 
pend upon  the  size  of  the  room  and  the 
hight  of  the  wainscot,  which  might  bet- 
ter be  four  feet  than  five,  in  case  that 
the  room  is  ten  feet  high,  since  we  must 


.lAI,  LIVING-ROOM 


AN    ATTRACTIVE    LIVING    ROOM 


UNIQUE  AND  OUT  OK  THE  ORDINARY 


avoid  lateral  divisions  into  halves,  as 
they  prove  commonplace  and  monoto- 
nous. Wainscoting  the  wall  is  perhaps 
the  best  method  of  lowering  the  appar- 
ent hight  of  the  ceiling. 

Next  to  the  remote  and  unfriendly  as- 
pect of  the  lofty  ceiling,  the  greatest 
drawback  to  cheerfulness  in  a  living- 
room  seems  to  be  lack  of  a  suitable  sup- 
ply of  light,  both  natural  and  artificial. 
Sometimes  this  is  due  to  prevalence  of 
dark  tones  in  woodwork,  wall-covering, 
and  furniture.  More  often,  it  results 
from  poorly-planned  and  inadequate 
windows.  There  seems  to  be  little  help 
for  this  unless  we  can  call  in  the  services 
of  architect  or  skilled  workman,  and 
have  one  or  two  good  groups  of  modern 
windows  inserted  into  the  walls  of  the 
apartment. 

Where  this  cannot  be  done,  great  care 
should  be  used  to  employ  a  white  or  very 
light-colored  trim,  with  yellowish  tan  for 
the  leading  color  in  wall  covering,  rugs, 
and  couch  cover.  Curtains  of  yellow 
China  silk  will  do  much  to  brighten  up 
such  a  room  as  this,  and  special  pains 
must  be  taken  not  to  introduce  hangings 


of  heavy  weight  or  of  dark  colors  to 
absorb  the  light. 

As  to  artificial  light,  in  a  large  room, 
a  central  chandelier  may  be  necessary, 
and  it  must  be  hung  high  for  safety ; 
but  see  to  it  that  the  side-lights  about 
the  room  are  placed  conveniently  low, 
and  let  the  main  source  of  light  in  your 
living-room  be  a  large  reading-lamp,  in 
an  effective  situation.  Beautiful  lamps 
for  such  a  purpose  are  now  made,  to  be 
connected  with  a  supply  of  gas  or  elec- 
tricity, or  in  country  bungalows  not  sup- 
plied with  these  modern  innovations,  to 
be  filled  with  kerosene.  The  effect  of  a 
light  placed  on  a  table  makes  for  beauty 
in  the  whole  living-room.  The  introduc- 
tion of  this  one  homelike  touch  does 
wonders  for  the  evening  appearance  of 
the  ordinary  apartment. 

The  appearance  of  comfort  in  this 
room  will  be  much  enhanced  by  the  in- 
troduction of  a  built-in  seat,  either  at  the 
window,  in  a  corner,  or  at  the  ingleside. 
A  couch  is  also  desirable,  in  fact  almost 
imperatively  necessary,  for  a  living- 
room,  in  order  to  convey  a  proper  sense 
of  ease  and  informality. 


16  THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 

Only  chairs  that  are  comfortable  therefore  no  permanent  beauty,  are 
should  be  selected.  Too  often  flimsy  chosen.  The  best  types  are  those  of 
caricatures    that    have    no    utility    and      Mission  and  Craftsman  design. 


;   ROOM  IN   HOME  OF    KATE  DOUGLAS  WIGGIN 


A  Ballad  of  Too  Much  Beauty 


There  is  too  much  beauty  upon  this  earth 

For  lonely  men  to  bear, 
Too  many  eyes,  loo  enchanted   skies, 

Too  many  things  too  fair ; 
And  the  man  who  would  live  the  life  of  a  man 
Must  turn  his  eyes  away — if  he  can. 

He  must  nol  look  at  the  dawning  day, 

Or  watch  the  rising  moon  ; 
From  the  little  feet,  so  while,  so  fleet. 

He  must  turn  his  eyes  away; 
And  the  flowers  and  the  faces  he  must  pass  Iiy 
With  stern  self-saerifidng  eye. 


For  beauty  and  duty  are  strangers  forever. 

Work  and  wonder  ever  apart, 
And  the  laws  of  life  eternally  sever 

The  ways  of  the  brain  from  the  ways  of  ihc 
heart; 
Be  it  flower  or  pearl,  or  the  face  of  a  girl, 
Or  the  ways  of  the  waters  as  they  swirl. 

For  beauty  is  sorr 
Have   no  hearl   t 

Or  hear  the  remorseful  voice  of  the  sea. 
Or  the  song  of  ihc  wandering  wind  In  the 

Or  even   watch  a  butterfly. 


.^h !   Beauty  is  such  a  hallowed  thing, 

So  holy  a  flower  in  the  garden  of  God, 
That  none  but  the  holy  should  dare  to  look 
On  the  painted  page  of  that  sacred  book, 
Look  in  the  eyes  of  spring. 
Or  hear  the  morning  sing. 
Richard  Le  Gallie.sne,  in  The  Smart  Set. 


Mrs.  Jessup*s  Birthday  Cake 


By  Anna  W.  Morrison 


I'LL  do  it,"  exclaimed  Mary    Ly- 
dell,  as   she  watched  Milly   Nor- 
ton    walk     briskly     down     the 
bricked  walk  to  the  street. 

Miss  Norton,  the  village  dressmaker, 
had  just  dropped  in  a  second  on  her 
way  to  the  grocery,  to  tell  Mary  about 
Hester  Snow's  wedding  dress  and  in- 
cidentally remind  her  of  another  mar- 
riage which  might  have  taken  place 
but  did  not,  and  for  which  she  had 
never  quite  forgiven  Mary  for  sto- 
ically refusing  to  g^ve  her  a  hint  as 
to  the  reason. 

"Mrs.  Jessup's  seventy  years  old  to- 
day," Miss  Norton  added  as  she  rose 
to  leave.  "But  there  isn't  any  reason 
of  my  telling  you  that.  You're  too 
familiar  with  the  family  events,  I'm 
sure."  Miss  Norton  continued  insin- 
uatingly as  she  peered  at  Mary  from 
a  pair  of  narrow  grey  eyes. 

The  entire  population  of  Bethel  had 
watched  the  courtship  of  Mary  Lydell 
and  Ralph  Jessup  for  several  years; 
then  rejoiced  when  the  engagement 
became  a  fact.  It  eagerly  awaited  the 
church  wedding  and  feast,  which  vil- 
lage gossips  had  set  for  June  two  years 
past.  Why  Ralph  Jessup  should  sud- 
denly throw  up  a  good  position  in  the 
bank  and  leave  for  the  west  the  vil- 
lagers were  never  able  to  secure  an 
answer.  Mary  Lydell  ignored  all 
questions  on  this  subject  and  Mrs. 
Jessup  just  glared  at  anyone  bold 
enough  to  question  her.  Betsy  Liep, 
the  Jessup's  hired  help,  drew  her 
mouth  into  a  mere  slit  when  the  sub- 
ject was  referred  to  by  neighbors. 

Before  the  wicket  had  ceased  click- 
ing, as  it  swung  back  and  forth  after 
Miss  Norton  had  given  it  a  careless 
push,  Mary  was  in  her  immaculate 
kitchen.  She  slipped  an  amethyst  set 
ring  from  her  finger  and  placed  it  on 


the  little  shelf  above  the  kitchen  table ; 
then  scrubbed  her  hands  thoroughly 
at  the  sink. 

"Shall  it  be  molasses,  fruit,  or  elec- 
tion cake?"  she  asked  herself  as  she 
gave  her  hands  an  extra  wipe  on  the 
roller  towel. 

Evidently  it  was  the  latter,  for  she 
lifted  the  pan  of  bread  dough  from 
the  warming  shelf  where  she  had 
placed  it  for  its  second  raising.  Care- 
fully she  measured  out  one  pint  of  the 
creamy  mixture,  setting  the  bowl  one 
side,  while  she  molded  four  velvety 
loaves  of  bread  and  disposed  them  in 
their  pans  for  their  third  raising.  Care- 
fully she  arranged  them  side  by  side 
on  the  warming  shelf,  then  com- 
menced the  cake.  Into  the  big  gray 
mixing  bowl  she  dumped  the  dough, 
following  with  butter,  sugar  and  egg 
yolks;  then  measured  out  the  cinna- 
mon, cloves,  all-spice  and  grated  nut- 
meg, tapping  the  spoon  against  the 
tin  cans  to  ensure  just  the  correct 
measurement,  which  would  ensure  the 
delicate  flavor  that  had  made  her  spice 
cakes  famous.  As  she  worked  these 
ingredients  into  the  dough,  her  thoughts 
reverted  to  the  eventful  day  three 
years  ago  this  month.  She  was  making 
election  cake  then  and  Ralph  was 
bolstering  up  the  door  jamb  lead- 
ing to  the  back  yard.  He  had  cut 
cross  lots  to  tell  her  that  he  was  will- 
ing to  eat  her  election  cake  forever  if 
she  was  willing. 

Mary's  face  flushed  and  burned  at 
the  recollection  of  his  words,  then  she 
became  angry  for  allowing  herself  to 
even  think  of  that  day.  She  stirred 
the  soda  vigorously  into  the  milk  un- 
til a  thick  foam  covered  the  top.  By 
the  time  the  whites  of  the  eggs  were 
whipped  to  a  froth  that  resembled 
newly  fallen  snow  she  had    regained 


17 


18 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


her  composure. 

"It  was  probably  all  for  the  best," 
she  voiced  aloud  as  she  larded  the 
paper  neatly  fitted  into  the  loaf  pan. 
"Ralph  was  always  obstinate,  his 
mother  said,  so  it  is  just  as  well  we 
never  got  any  further  than  being  en- 
gaged." Mary  reached  for  the  little 
Scotch  jar  that  held  the  raisins  and 
lifting  the  lid  peered  into  its  depths. 

"Land  sakes!  Not  a  raisin."  She 
was  disgusted  with  her  carelessness. 
Scraping  the  dough  from  her  right 
hand  she  snatched  up  the  measuring 
cup  and  hurried  out  of  the  door,  across 
the  yard  to  her  next  door  neighbor. 

"May  I  borrow  a  cupful  of  raisins, 
Martha?"  she  asked,  as  she  faced  Mrs. 
Chapman,  elbow  deep  in  the  dish-pan. 

"That  you  may.  Is  it  raisin  loaf 
today?"  she  asked,  as  she  wiped  her 
hands  on  her  gingham  apron  as^  she 
walked  to  the  cupboard  for  the  jar. 
"Don't  bother  about  measuring.  Take 
the  jar  and  use  what  you  like." 

"I'll  only  want  a  cupful  as  I'm  bak- 
ing election  cake.  It's  for  Mrs.  Jessup. 
She  is  seventy  years  old  today."  Mary 
could  have  slapped  herself  as  she  felt 
the  hot  blood  rise  to  her  face.  She  felt 
Martha  Chapman's  keen  eyes  on  her 
as  she  filled  the  cup  heaping  full  of 
the  rich  fruit.  "I  thought  I'd  surprise 
her  with  a  birthday  cake." 

"I  suppose  you'll  use  those  new  Bos- 
ton tubes  for  the  icing.  You  beat  the 
Dutch  for  fussing,"  Martha  called  af- 
ter her  as  she  slipped  through  the  hole 
in  the  side  fence. 

"What  are  you  doing  up  there,  Pum- 
pernill?"  Mary  exclaimed,  as  she  en- 
tered the  kitchen  and  spied  her  sleek 
black  cat  perched  contentedly  on  the 
little  kitchen  shelf.  Pumpernill  just 
opened  his  yellow  eyes  lazily  and 
looked  at  his  mistress  a  moment,  then 
closed  them  again  and  settled  himself 
for  a  nap. 

Mary  poured  alternate  layers  of  the 
spicy  dough  over  the  raisins  until  the 
pan  was  a  little  more  than  half  full; 


then  placed  it  on  the  warming  shelf 
with  another  pan  over  it. 

Mrs.  Jessup  was  knitting  by  the  sit- 
ting-room window  when  Mary  Lydell 
all  smiles  pushed  the  door  open  and 
entered. 

"I  rapped,  but  as  no  one  seemed  to 
hear  I  thought  you  might  be  away 
from  home  and  I  could  leave  my  pack- 
age," Mary  said  apologetically,  feeling 
a  little  embarrassed  under  the  scruti- 
nizing eyes  of  Mrs.  Jessup. 

"Well,  Mary  Lydell,  you  are  a 
stranger.  Whatever  brought  you  here 
today?" 

"Your  birthday,"  answered  Mary  as 
she  placed  her  package  on  the  center 
table  and  commenced  to  unwrap  the 
snowy  napkin. 

Mrs.  Jessup  looked  up  rather  sur- 
prised. She  was  pleased,  nevertheless, 
that  Mary  had  not  forgotten  her  birth- 
days, although  she  refused  to  *  allow 
Betsy,  the  hired  help,  to  remind  her  of 
them  with  "fussing." 

"Yes,  I  remember  how  you  used  to 
like  my  election  cakes,"  Mary  con- 
tinued, as  she  carried  the  confection  to 
Mrs.  Jessup  and  placed  the  dish  in  her 
upturned  hands. 

**My  goodness,  Mary  Lydell,  it  looks 
like  a  weddin*  cake.  How  did  you 
ever  do  it?"  Mrs.  Jessup  asked  as  she 
feasted  her  eyes  on  the  billowy  icing, 
crimped  and  fluted  in  snowy  miniature 
drifts  over  the  round  form.  In  the 
cavity  made  by  the  pan  tube  was 
placed  a  cluster  of  Martha  Washing- 
ton geranium  blossoms. 

"Jessica  Killip  sent  me  a  set  of  pip- 
ing tubes  from  Boston  and  I  have  been 
spending  my  spare  moments  making 
frills  and  waves  like  those  on  Ellen 
Spencer's  wedding  cake.  I  thought  I'd 
surprise  you  with  one  of  my  election 
cakes  dressed  up  like  a  wedding  cake. 
I  hope  it  is  as  good  as  it  looks,"  Mary 
added. 

Mrs.  Jessup  assured  her  that  there 
was  no  doubt  about  it.    Everybody  in 


MRS.   JESSUP'S   BIRTHDAY   CAKE 


19 


Bethel  knew  that  Mary  Lydell  never 
failed  with  her  cakes  and  pies,  without 
which  no  social  or  sale  was  complete 
or  a  success. 

"Shall  I  give  it  to  Betsy  to  put 
away?"  Mary  asked,  to  hide  her  con- 
fusion at  this  compliment.  It  had 
been  so  many  months  since  she  and 
Mrs.  Jessup  had  met  and  visited  that 
it  seemed  like  beginning  anew  to  be 
acquainted.  Mary  tried  to  feel  at  ease, 
but  there  seemed  to  be  a  slight  strain 
on  both  the  women's  part,  although 
Mrs.  Jessup  urged  Mary  to  remove  her 
hat  and  coat  and  sit  down  awhile. 
Mrs.  Jessup  also  refused  to  allow 
Betsy  to  be  called. 

"I'll  attend  to  putting  it  away.  I 
want  to  feast  my  eyes  on  it  awhile," 
Mrs.  Jessup  added  as  she  held  it  up 
again  to  inspect  the  decorations.  Men- 
tally she  added  that  Mary  certainly 
did  keep  her  looks  wonderfully  well 
for  a  woman  of  thirty-five.  She  also 
noted  how  becoming  to  Mary's  brown 
hair  and  eyes  was  the  brown  cloth  suit 
and  hat,  the  pink  lining  and  wings  of 
the  latter  just  matching  the  pink  in 
Mary's  cheeks.  She  wondered  what 
Mary  would  say,  if  she  told  her  of  an- 
other surprise  which  had  come  to  her 
that  very  morning.  She  did  not  dare 
to  tell  her,  yet  she  wished  she  might. 

"You  won't  stay  away  so  long, 
Mary.  The  days  have  been  somewhat 
lonely  since  Ralph  went  away.  There's 
plenty  of  company  such  as  it  is,"  Mrs. 
Jessup  said,  a  touch  of  pathos  in  her 
voice.  "It  isn't  like  your  own.  I've 
always  looked  on  you  as  my  own." 

Mary's  face  flushed  at  the  mention 
of  Ralph's  name.  But  when  Mrs.  Jes- 
sup spoke  of  her  being  one  of  her  own, 
she  nervously  pushed  her  hat  to  one 
side,  then  straightened  it  again. 

"Yes,  I'll  come  again.  I've  been 
somewhat  busy  with  Mrs.  Koppel. 
She's  had  rheumatism  so  badly  and 
there's  no  one  to  look  after  her,  you 
know.  I  go  there  every  day  to  help 
her  a  bit.    But  I'll  run  in  often  to  see 


you."  Mary  added,  a  pleased  look 
comilig  into  her  eyes  as  they  rested  on 
the  slight  form  of  Mrs.  Jessup.  As 
she  closed  the  door  behind  her,  Mrs. 
Jessup  called  Betsy,  who  raised  her 
hands  in  astonishment  as  she  viewed 
the  cake. 

"My,  but  where  did  you  get  th'  wed- 
din'  cake?"  she  queried,  placing  her 
elbows  akimbo  in  admiration. 

"It  isn't  a  wedding  cake.  It's  my 
birthday  cake.    Mary  Lydell  baked  it." 

"Umph,"  puffed  Betsy,  raising  her 
nose  in  disdain.  "Whatever  possessed 
her  to  bake  a  cake  today  for  you? 
Don't  suppose  she  knows  he's  comin*?" 

Mrs.  Jessup  shook  her  head.  "No 
one  knows  that  but  you  and  me.  Mary 
used  always  to  bake  election  cake  for 
my  birthdays.  We'll  cut  it  for  sup- 
per," she  added  as  she  passed  the  loaf 
to  Betsy. 

"Then  we  won't  have  that  yellow 
sponge  ?"  asked  Betsy  anxiously  as  she 
turned  to  leave  the  room.  SHe  had 
put  in  an  hour  earlier  that  morning  to 
concoct  one  of  her  famous  yellow 
cakes  for  this  occasion  and  she  was 
disappointed  that  Mary  Lydell  should 
"butt  in,"  she  mentally  declared  to  her- 
self. Her  spirits  arose  when  Mrs.  Jes- 
sup answered  that  they  would  have 
both.  "And  take  the  flowers  out  of 
the  cake  so  they  will  keep  fresh  for 
tonight  when  you  serve  the  cake,"  she 
added. 

At  six  o'clock  Ralph  Jessup,  whose 
coming  home  was  a  secret  between  his 
mother,  Betsy  and  himself,  sat  down 
for  the  first  time  in  two  years  with 
his  mother  to  enjoy  a  "real,  homey 
meal,"  he  explained. 

"I'm  so  glad  that  you  were  willing 
to  keep  my  coming  a  secret,  mumsy. 
I'll  have  to  be  oflf  early  in  the  morning 
and  I  wanted  this  brief  time  with  you 
and  without  the  whole  town  calling  in 
tonight,"  the  big,  bronzed-faced  man 
declared  as  he  helped  his  mother  to 
her  chair. 

Mrs.  Jessup  nodded  and  smiled  on 


20 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


her  boy  as  she  poured  out  the  fragrant 
orange  pekoe  into  two  of  her  best 
gold-banded  cups.  "That  suits  me. 
And  Betsy  is  just  as  jealous  of  your 
short  stay  as  I  so  that  not  a  soul 
knows  you  are  here.  Your  disguise  is 
complete  with  that  beard.  Your  best 
friend  would  never  guess  who  you 
are."  So  excited  was  this  mother  that 
she  could  not  eat,  but  found  satisfac- 
tion in  watching  the  creamed  potatoeSi 
pink  ham,  sliced  thin  as  a  wafer,  and 
flaky  biscuits  disappear  down  her 
boy's  hungry  throat. 

"It  seems  bully,  mumsy,  to  get 
home-cooking  again  after  existing  on 
hotel  fodder  for  two  years.  Two  years 
— it  don't  seem  so  long,  mother,  does 
it?" 

Mrs.  Jessup's  eyes  filled  with  mois- 
ture as  she  answered  that  it  seemed 
like  a  hundred.  Then  as  her  son 
reached  for  another  biscuit  she  added 
that  he  must  save  room  for  the  cake. 
"It's  election  cake,  Ralph." 

The  man  dropped  the  biscuit  and 
smacked  his  lips  like  a  boy  as  he  re- 
peated eagerly,  "election  cake.  Hookey? 
mother,  I  haven't  tasted  one  since  I 
left  here."  Then  jokingly  he  called  at 
the  top  of  his  voice,  "Betsy,  bring  on 
your  cake,"  again  smacking  his  lips 
in  anticipation  of  the  tidbit  as  Betsy 
appeared,  bearing  on  one  upturned 
hand  a  plate  of  golden  squares  of 
sponge  cake,  the  other  holding  the 
election  cake,  which  she  reached  to- 
ward Ralph,  who  stared  at  it  in  won- 
derment. 

"It  looks  like  a  wedding  cake., 
mumsy.  Where  did  you  get  such  a 
fluffy  rufHe?  Start  up  your  wedding 
march,  Betsy,"  he  added  as  he  lifted 
the  plate  to  the  table,  and  all  three 
joined  in  a  hearty  laugh  at  his  timely 
jokes. 

"That's  my  birthday  cake,"  Mrs. 
Jessup  announced  emphatically,  as  her 
son  lifted  the  cake  knife  and  pushed  it 
carefully  through  the  creamy  billows 


of  icing;  then  lifted  a  generous  piece 
upon  a  plate  for  his  mother. 

"Betsy  has  outdone  herself,  this 
time,"  he  answered  as  he  picked  out 
the  cluster  of  geraniums  to  lay  beside 
the  section.  He  did  not  notice  the  mo- 
tion of  silence  which  Mrs.  Jessup  made 
to  Betsy,  as  the  latter  was  about  to 
correct  the  impression  that  she  was  the 
author  of  the  wonderful  concoction. 
Then  Mrs.  Jessup  added  hastily : 

"No,  no.  You  keep  the  bouquet. 
Pin  them  on  your  coat.  I  can  see  them 
better  there." 

Between  a  running  comment  on  how 
good  things  tasted;  how  great  the 
pleasure  to  be  home  once  more,  and 
what  a  treasure  Betsy  was,  the  slice 
of  cake  soon  vanished. 

"May  I,  mother?"  he  asked,  balanc- 
ing the  knife  over  the  cake  as  he 
looked  at  the  beaming  face  across  the 
table,  knowing  what  her  answer  would 
be. 

"All  of  it,  if  you  wish." 

"It's  too  bad  to  be  a  greedy  boy  and 
eat  all  of  your  birthday  cake."  He 
lifted  the  section  to  his  mouth.  "This 
is  the  only  way  to  enjoy  election  cake, 
mumsy.  You  can  eat  any  old  kind  of 
cake  with  a  fork,  but  not  this."  He 
bit  off  a  generous  piece  from  the  point. 
He  chewed  a  moment  on  the  spicy 
mixture,  then  a  queer  expression 
spread  across  his  face.  He  stopped 
chewing  suddenly,  clutched  his  jaw 
and  putting  the  slice  of  cake  down 
picked  something  from  between  his 
lips  and  held  it  toward  the  lamp. 

"What  is  it?  A  tooth?"  anxiously 
enquired  his  mother. 

Ralph  scrutinized  the  object  more 
closely;  then  answered:  "No,  it's  a 
ring."  He  wiped  the  moist  crumbs  from 
the  object  to  examine  it  to  better  advan- 
tage. His  face  clouded.  He  knit  his 
brows  into  an  angry  scowl  and  the  blood 
surged  over  his  face  as  he  recognized  the 
ring.  These  signs  passed  unnoticed  by 
his  mother  as  she  exclaimed : 

"A  ring!     Then  it's  for  mc.     Mary 


MRS.   JESSUFS   BIRTHDAY   CAKE 


21 


must  have  intended  a  double  surprise 
for  me." 

"Mary  I  Mary  who  ?"  Ralph  pretended 
to  be  much  surprised  as  he  questioned 
his  mother,  who  was  smiling  with  joy 
at  this  latest  addition  of  joy  to  her 
birthday  surprises,  and  was  holding  out 
her  hand  for  the  ring.  As  she  realized 
that  she  had  given  away  a  secret  which 
she  had  warned  Betsy  to  keep,  she 
dropped  her  hands  in  her  lap  and  faintly 
answered  that  it  was  Mary  Lydell. 

"She  made  the  cake  and  brought  it 
over  to  surprise  me  this  morning.  I 
never  was  so  taken  back  in  my  life  when 
she  walked  in  on  me  as  I  sat  knitting. 
I  hadn't  seen  her  for  months,  excepting 
across  the  street."  Mrs.  Jessup  did  not 
know  why  she  should  excuse  herself  for 
getting  surprised. 

"Did  she  know  that  I  was  coming?" 

"Oh,  no,  no,"  Mrs.  Jessup  hastily  as- 
sured her  son.  "We  have  guarded  it  as 
secret  as  the  grave.  But  what's  the  mat- 
ter," she  asked  anxiously  as  she  noticed 
something  queer  about  her  son's  face. 

Instead  of  replying  he  stretched  across 
the  table  to  place  the  ring  in  her  hand. 
She  remembered  it.  She  had  assisted 
her  son  to  select  it  during  a  visit  at  Bos- 
ton, and  she  had  seen  it  many  times  on 
Mary  Lydell's  third  finger  of  her  left 
hand.  She  had  selected  the  ring  on  ac- 
count of  the  little  cluster  of  for-get-me- 
nots  of  pearls  sunk  in  the  center  of  the 
purple  stone.  Quick  to  sense  the  situa- 
tion she  laid  the  ring  beside  her  plate. 

"It  is  a  mistake,  Ralph.  It  isn't  meant 
for  me.  It  slipped  from  her  finger 
when  she  mixed  the  cake.  You  don't 
stir  election  cake.  You  mix  it  with  your 
hand." 

Early  the  next  morning  Mary  Lydell 
was  searching  the  kitchen  for  her  ame- 
thyst ring.  She  remembered  taking  it 
from  her  finger  and  placing  it  on  the 
shelf  before  she  mixed  her  bread  so 
she  could  not  have  baked  it  in  the  loaves. 
That  is  the  last  she  realized  seeing  it. 
At  the  present  moment,  she  was  down 


on  all  fours  beside  the  kitchen  range 
feeling  along  the  mopboard  for  a  stray 
knothole  in  which  it  might  have  rolled, 
if  she  had  been  careless  when  putting 
it  on  the  shelf. 

"Let  me  help  you." 

Mary  backed  awkwardly  from  behind 
the  range.  She  was  never  nervous,  but 
it  was  surprising  to  have  a  deep  bass 
voice  sound  so  near  one,  and  in  such  an 
embarrassing  position  to  meet  a  stranger. 
She  raised  herself  to  her  knees  beforq 
she  was  able  to  look  up  at  the  intruder 
who  had  opened  the  kitchen  door  and 
entered,  unannounced. 

"Mercy!  Gracious  1"  She  recognized 
thos^  deep-set  gray  eyes  looking  at  her. 
She  knew  the  mouth  was  smiling  at  her 
discomfiture,  although  it  was  hidden 
with  the  mustache  and  beard.  "Why, 
where  did  you  come  from?"  She  tried 
to  rise  to  her  feet  but  sank  back  in  a 
sitting  position.  Her  face  reddened  be- 
neath his  gaze ;  then  it  paled.  The  man 
towered  above  her  and  she  saw  his  eyes 
twinkle  as  he  asked : 

"You  were  looking  for  something? 
May  I  help  you?"  Down  on  his  knees 
beside  her  he  went  before  she  had  an 
opportunity  to  protest. 

"A  ring.  I  baked  a  cake  for  your 
mother  yesterday  and  took  off  my  ring. 
I  haven't  seen  it  since.  I  must  have 
dropped  it  on  the  floor."  Her  embar- 
rassment was  pitable.  Ralph  Jessup  en- 
joyed it. 

"Was  it  a  valuable  one?"  he  asked, 
making  a  pretense  of  searching  for  it, 
but  keeping  his  eyes  on  her  face. 

"I  was  very  fond  of  it.  It  was — a 
friend  gave  it — it — "  Mary  stopped  as 
her  voice  choked.  She  was  angry  at 
herself  for  being  so  upset  and  before 
him,  too.  What  if  he  should  find  it  af- 
ter all  these  admissions! 

Ralph  Jessup  had  managed  to  bring 
himself  close  beside  her.  "Mary,  is  this 
it?"  He  opened  his  closed  hand  and 
showed  her  the  missing  ring.  She 
reached  for  it. 

"Where  did  you  find  it?"    Her  voice 


22 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


was  filled  with  astonishment,  but  she 
fairly  wilted  as  he  replied: 

"In  my  portion  of  mother's  birthday 
cake  you  baked." 

They  gazed  at  each  other  a  second; 
then  Mary  began  to  laugh,  which  re- 
lieved the  situation. 

"Pumpernill  did  it.  He  knocked  it  in-, 
to  the  dough  when  I  was  at  Martha 
Chapman's  for  the  raisins."  Mary  was 
still  holding  out  her  hand  for  the  ring. 
Ralph  lifted  it  from  his  palm  with  hip 
thumb  and  finger  of  the  other  hand. 

"Have  you  worn  it  ever  since?" 

Mary  knew  what  he  referred  to.    She 


dropped  her  eyes  beneath  his  earnest 
gaze.  The  pink  flowed  into  her  face, 
then  became  red. 

"May  I  place  it  in  its  rightful  place 
agam  ? 

For  an  answer  Mary  lowered  all  her 
fingers  but  the  third  one  of  her  left 
hand.  Ralph  Jessup  grasped  the  hand 
and  lifted  it  to  his  lips,  then  slipped  the 
ring  in  place. 

"I  was  to  blame,  Mary,"  he  whispered 
in  her  ear  as  he  pressed  her  closely  to 
him.  "That  wasn't  a  birthday  cake, 
sweetheart,  I  knew  it  was  a  wedding 
cake." 


The  Hardworkers*  Monument 


By  Madeleine  Burrage 


IT'S  funny,  but  it  never  struck  me  as 
bein'  the  least  bit  odd  or  out  o'  the 
way,  our  moniment,  I  mean,  till  the 
other  day  Miss  Parker,  she's  my  sum- 
mer boarder,  an'  the  most  elegant  young 
lady,  she  come  in  an'  she  says,  "Well, 
for  New  England  quaintness,  commend 
me  to  this  town  I" 

"What  now?"  I  says,  real  amiable, 
bein'  used  to  city  folks. 

"Why,"  she  says,  "that  monument 
down  in  the  square  that  says  on  it.  'To 
All  the  Hard-Workers  in  This  Village 
Who  Have  Never  Got  Any  Credit'!" 

"Oh,"  I  says,  "you  mean  that!"  An' 
then  I  had  to  tell  her  all  about  it. 

You  see,  it  was  this  way.  Leily  Pow- 
ers had  always  run  our  village  from  the 
word  go,  so  when  she  up  an'  died  all  of 
a  sudden  last  fall,  an'  we  was  cut  off 
from  our  guidin'  light,  so  to  speak,  we 
had  an  awful  dazed  an*  left-behind 
feelin'  for  a  while.  An'  then,  gradual- 
like,  it  was  borne  in  upon  us  that  we'd 
ought  to  do  somethin'  real  big  for  her, 
to  show  how  high  we  held  all  she'd  done 
for  us.  So  after  a  good  deal  o'  backin' 
an'  fillin',  we  pitched  on  a  moniment,  to 


be  set  up  down  in  the  square,  right  in 
the  middle,  so's  it  shouldn't  be  no  nearer 
one  store  than  the  other.  An'  we  had 
Steve  Plummer  an'  Job  Perkins  down  on 
their  knees  in  the  road  with  their  whole 
stock  o'  yard-sticks,  all  het  up,  measurin' 
for  fear  one  of  'em  would  get  it  an  inch 
his  way! 

Some  wanted  a  boss  trough,  'cause 
they  said  it  was  useful  an'  an  honor,  too, 
but  the  rest  of  us  stood  firm  for  a  plain 
moniment,  bein'  as  they  always  look 
more  elegant  an'  expensive  jest  because 
they  ain't  no  earthly  use  to  a  livin'  soul ! 
An'  besides,  the  boss  trough  didn't  seem 
what  you  might  call  awful  appropriate, 
since  Leily'd  always  been  skeered  blue  o' 
bosses. 

So  in  the  end  the  others  come  over  an' 
we  sent  off  to  the  granite  works  for  the 
stone.  It  was  to  be  jest  square  an'  plain 
like  you  see,  an'  the  letterin'  was  to  be 
put  on  after  it  got  here.  There  were 
folks  that  wanted  everything  done  dowii 
to  the  works,  but  I  said  no,  there  ought 
to  be  some  home  talent,  as  you  might 
say,  connected  with  it,  an'  Elmer  Stev- 
ens was  jest  the  man  for  the  job.     His 


THE    HARDWORKER'S    MONUMENT 


23 


cuttin'  IS  always  neat  an'  creditable,  even 
if  his  real  genius  does  run  toward  sign- 
paintin'. 

Well,  it  come  home,  an'  then  things 
begun  to  get  lively.  Everybody  thought 
up  a  different  piece  to  put  on  that  mon- 
iment,  an'  everybody  thought  his  was 
far-an'-away  the  best.  Mis'  Snow  hit 
on  "Gone  but  Not  Forgotten"  an*  stuck 
there.  Mis'  Perkins  wanted  "Our  Leily !" 
with  an  exclamation  point,  which  give 
Maylo  Pease  the  idee  for  "Noble  Wom- 
an ! !"  with  two  exclamation  points  1  An' 
Deacon  Plummer  wrote  a  thirty-nine 
verse  poem  beginning' 

"Why  is  this  moniment  here,  under  the 

sun  and  the  showers? 
To  show  to  our  children,  dear,  what  a 

woman  was  Leily  F.  Powers!" 

which  he  said  he  thought  could  be  got 
on  with  a  little  crowdin'. 

Things  jest  capered  from  bad  to 
worse,  till,  finally,  it  come  to  me  the  best 
thing  to  do  was  to  have  only  her  name 
an'  underneath  a  list  o'  the  things  she'd 
done  for  the  village.  So  I  told  my  Hi- 
ram to  suggest  it  some  night  down  to 
the  store,  an'  then,  if  it  met  with  favor, 
to  call  a  meetin'  of  the  whole  village, 
an'  all  make  out  that  list  together. 

Which  he  done,  an'  on  the  evenin'  ap- 
pinted,  at  the  stroke  of  seven,  we  was 
there  in  a  body.  Amos  Emery  persided. 
He  set  up  on  the  platform  with  a  little 
table,  an'  a  drink  o'  water,  an'  paper  an' 
pencil,  all  ready  to  write  down  whatever 
we  said.  We'd  decided  beforehand  that 
we'd  begin  way  back  at  the  beginnin'  an' 
work  up  orderly,  but  we  was  all  sort  o' 
hazy  'bout  what  happened  twenty  or 
thirty  years  ago,  so  things  went  sort  o' 
slow  at  first. 

Mis'  Plummer  offered  the  Organizin' 
of  the  Church  Choir,  which  Leily  done 
when  we  was  jest  young  things,  an',  I 
declare,  if  we  didn't  get  to  gossipin' 
'bout  what  a  good  time  we  used  to  have 
practisin',  till  we  clean  forgot  what  we 
was  gathered  for.  But  Amos  under- 
stood his  business,  an*  called  out  "Or- 


der I"  real  loud,  an'  we  started  again. 

Mis'  Stone  put  in  Organizin'  the 
Sewin'  Circle  that  Leily  always  said  was 
for  the  amelioration  o'  the  tiresomeness 
o'  damin'  by  yourself,  an'  Mis'  Snow 
remembered  how  she  planned  out 
Sprucin'  up  Round  the  Station,  with  a 
little  grass  an'  a  flower  bed.  'Twas 
wonderful  what  a  difference  it  made,  an' 
I've  always  hoped  the  sight  was  grateful 
to  them  hot  dusty  summer  travelers.  I 
took  down  a  sweet-william  root,  I  recall, 
'specially  for  the  children;  they  like 
bright  things  so. 

Well,  after  that,  idees  begun  comin' 
thick  an'  fast,  an'  Amos  was  kep'  a- 
writin'  so  hard  that  his  arm  was  lame 
for  more'n  a  week,  an'  had  to  be  rubbed 
with  boss  liniment  every  night.  Things 
jest  sang,  till  somebody  suggested  the 
Raisin'  o'  Money  for  Books  for  the 
School  House,  by  havin'  a  fair  for  the 
city  folks  to  come  to,  an'  at  that  I  see 
Mis'  Holcomb  squirm,  but  she  didn't  say 
nothin',  an'  it  went  on  till  my  Hiram 
mentioned  Gettin'  the  Church  Carpet. 
At  that  Myra  White  riz  right  up  an'  she 
says,  all  pink,  "I'm  the  last  person,"  she 
says,  "to  want  to  take  away  credit  from 
the  dead,  but,"  she  says,  "Leily  Powers 
never  had  any  finger  in  that  affair.  All 
she  done  was  to  sail  in  an'  get  the  praise, 
an'  I  was  glad  enough  for  her  to  have 
it,  heaven  knows!  But,"  she  says,  "it 
don't  seem  quite  right  to  let  it  be  put  on 
everlastin'  granite!"  An'  down  she  sat. 
But  no  sooner  had  she  done  so  than  up 
riz  Maylo  Pease.  "I  never  should  'a' 
mentioned  it,"  she  says,  all  of  a  tremble, 
"but  for  Myra.  But,"  she  says,  "this 
is  the  way  the  Village  Improvement 
come  about.  Leily  an'  a  lot  of  us  was 
up  to  her  house  one  day  when  she  says, 
This  town  is  a  disgrace!  Somethin' 
ought  to  be  done!  It  needs  its  hair 
combed  and  its  face  washed!'  Well,  I 
went  home  an'  thought,  an'  the  next  day 
I  talked  it  over  with  others,  an'  in  the 
afternoon  we  went  over  to  Leily's  an' 
says  'Let's  have  a  Village  Improvement 
Society,    an'    you    be    president.'     'All 


24 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


right/  she  says,  'an'  I  appint  Maylo  to 
look  after  things  1'  Which  I  done,  an' 
was  real  pleased  to  have  her  let  me. 
But  that's  how  it  was,  an'  now  I  ain*t 
sure — ^there,  I  wish  I  hadn't  said  any- 
thing!" she  says. 

But  she  had.  An'  then  it  did  seem  as 
if  everybody  was  on  their  feet  to  once. 
They'd  all  thought  o  'somethin'I  Amos 
was  kep'  a-crossin'  out  an'  a-puttin'  in 
till  he  didn't  know  where  he  was  at,  an' 
in  the  excitement  he  tipped  over  his 
drink,  an'  he  got  all  wore  out ! 

Finally,  I  got  up  an'  I  says,  "Now 
let's  calm  down.  Amos,  you  read  your 
list,  an'  then  we'll  see  what  we've  left 
out  or  o-mitted  an'  put  it  in  q%Aet!" 

Amos,  he  riz,  tried  to  take  a  drink  but 
there  wan't  none  left  after  the  catas- 
trophe, cleared  his  throat,  looked  the 
paper  over  front  an'  back,  an'  looked 
again. 

"Don't  be  bashful,  Ame,"  sings  out 
someone. 

"I  ain't,"  says  he,  real  cold.  "The 
trouble  is,  there  ain't  anything  here  but 
what  you've  crossed  out!" 

Now  wan't  that  difficult?  We  didn't 
know  what  to  do.  We  jest  sort  o'  sat 
an'  pondered,  and  gradual-like  it  dawned 
on  us  that  we'd  been  taken  in,  managed ! 


First,  I  was  mad,  an'  then  it  come  to  me 
how  Leily  must  'a'  spent  her  life  laughin' 
up  her  sleeve.  We'd  done  the  work 
and  made  her  a  present  o'  the  credit  1 

There  wan't  no  more  to  that  meetin', 
but  we  had  another  the  next  night.  There 
was  the  moniment  on  our  hands.  We 
didn't  like  to  send  it  back  an'  be  the 
laughin'  stock  o'  the  whole  county,  an' 
yet  what  could  we  do  with  it?  That  was 
where  some  o'  the  hoss-trough  folks 
came  in  real  disagreeable. 

Two  or  three  days  passed,  an'  then  I 
had  my  inspiration.  I  reasoned  it  this 
way.  We'd  gotten  the  moniment  for 
Leily,  because  we  thought  she'd  done  so 
much  for  us.  Findin*  she  hadn't,  why 
shouldn't  we  keep  it  for  ourselves? 
We'd  done  all  the  work,  an'  never  got  a 
speck  o'  credit  yet.  Why  shouldn't  we 
have  that  moniment  as  such? 

Lots  o'  folks  disapproved,  o'  course, 
at  first,  but  in  the  end  they  come  around. 
I  made  up  the  words  for  it  myself,  "To 
All  the  Hard- Workers  in  This  Village 
Who  Have  Never  Got  Any  Credit,"  an' 
I  can't  help  feelin'  it's  for  Leily,  too,  in 
a  way,  because  she  may  have  worked 
hard,  unbeknownst  to  us,  an'  we  cer- 
tainly ain't  givin'  her  no  credit;  we  are 
treating  all  alike. 


A   Poetical   Laundress 

The  moon,  a  tub  of  yellow  gold, 
Is  hrimmed  with  sparkling  suds, 

And,  tossed  in  heaps  across  the  sky 
Like  careless  fairies'  duds, 

The  little  clouds  are  strewn  about — 

I  wish  that  I  might  wash  them  out. 

I'd  have  a  dainty  washboard  made 

Of  amber  sunset  bars, 
A  basket,  draped  with  silver  gauze, 

And  edged  with  evening  stars. 
And  gaily,  in  my  lunar  tub. 
The  fleecy  cloud-clothes  I  would  rub. 

With  gentle  hand  I'd  rinse  them  well 

In  waves  of  crystal  dew. 
And  blue  them  lightly  with  a  mist 

Of  palest  harebell  hue; 
Then,  evenly  along  the  sky, 
I'd  spread  them,  fresh  and  sweet,  to  dry. 
Harriet  Whitney  Symonds. 


Neighborhood  Clubs 


By  Luellen  Bussenius 


FOR  dwellers  in  the  suburbs  and 
small  country  towns,  a  neighbor- 
hood club  is  a  veritable  blessing 
in  disguise.  While  it  is  true  that  many 
people  like  solitude,  and  do  not  favor  or 
encourage  neighborly  calls,  and  "running 
in  at  the  back  door,"  yet  the  little  club 
of  co-residents  must  not  in  any  wise  be 
confused  with  anything  of  this  kind. 
For  in  many  clubs  of  this  type,  organ- 
ized for  the  object  of  lessening  the  lone- 
liness of  dull  days,  to  give  a  bit  of  en- 
tertainment to  the  monotony  of  house- 
work, or  to  afford  some  instruction  in 
studies,  it  frequently  happens  that  the 
members  see  each  other  only  on  those 
rare,  looked-forward-to  days  of  meeting. 
Solitude  is  not  always  the  best  medi- 
cine for  tired  nerves.  Even  Bacon  said 
that  "He  who  prefers  solitude  is  either 
God  or  beast."  One  surely  does  become 
dull  from  lack  of  exchange  of  ideas,  if 
about  nothing  better  than  to  plan  some- 
thing in  the  household.  It  is  contact 
with  personality,  with  other  natures,  that 
brightens  the  intellect,  as  it  is  assuredly 
the  humor  of  some  one  else  that  cheers 
one  up.  And  what  with  the  hum-drum 
routine  of  everyday  work  in  the  house, 
in  which  a  woman's  work  is  merely 
stopped  at  night,  but  never  done,  we  all 
need  that  ineffable  little  process  of 
"cheering  up."  And  it  is  from  others 
that  we  must  get  it,  for  unfortunately 
one  cannot  always  perform  the  miracle 
in  oneself. 

The  Neighborhood  Club  may  meet  if 
for  no  other  purpose  than  to  invite  its 
members  to  bring  their  darning,  and 
while  performing  the  monotonous  task, 
to  be  entertained  with  social  chat.  Or 
once  in  a  while  the  meeting  may  be  va- 
ried by  a  modest  little  card  party,  or  a 
musicale.  If  the  hostess  does  not  wish 
to  spend  even  the  small  amount  on  re- 
freshments, it  may  be  made  a  "Dutch 


treat,"  each  member  contributing  her 
quarter  or  her  share  of  the  food.  Such 
a  slight  tax  is  never  objected  to. 

Such  affairs,  however,  must  be  deter- 
mined by  the  hostess  herself.  The  Club 
should  make  no  pretentions  other  than 
to  offer  a  comfortable  cheerful  afternoon 
at  one  of  its  member's  homes.  Its  sim- 
plicity and  lack  of  attempt  to  make  it 
elaborate  are  its  main  requirements,  and 
it  should  indeed  be  a  "neighborhood"  in- 
formal meeting  of  its  members. 

Perhaps  if  one  of  the  members  reads 
well,  she  could  give  added  pleasure  by 
reading  some  pretty  story  aloud,  or  pos- 
sibly a  tale  of  travel.  Or,  the  musical 
member  can  always  add  greatly  to  the 
entertainment.  It  need  not  be  much,  but 
each  brings  its  little  ray  for  the  "cheer- 
ing" up. 

Many  women  grow  dejected  and  mo- 
rose through  family  cares,  sickness  and 
excessive  household  tasks.  We  often 
hear  the  expression,  "Oh,  women  are  al- 
ways complaining,"  but  we  do  not  al- 
ways think  of  how  few  of  these  women 
ever  "give  up"  and  leave  their  duties  un- 
done. For  a  woman's  limitations  of  en- 
durance surpass  all  understanding,  and 
even  when  really  ill,  the  whirl  of  the 
household  duties  leave  her  no  time  to 
realize  how  badly  she  feels.  A  "day  off" 
through  the  week,  or  fortnight,  is  better 
than  a  doctor's  prescription,  for  such  a 
change  and  rest  tones  up  the  mind  as 
well  as  the  body.  If  women  would  try 
this  plan,  dismissing  from  their  minds  all 
thoughts  of  the  petty  worriments  of  their 
homes,  and  start  out  on  their  holiday 
with  a  mind  clear  and  free,  and  open  for 
new  impressions,  there  would  be  fewer 
"complaining"  women  in  the  world. 

The  Neighborhoood  Club  is  the  open 
arena  for  many  perplexities,  and  for 
numerous  theories.  Perhaps  there  is 
fancy  work  one  likes  to  work  on  at  odd 


2S 


26 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


times,  (darning  may  be  thought  too  sug- 
gestive of  its  accompanying  tasks  at 
home).  If  so,  take  the  bit  of  embroid- 
ery along,  knowing  all  the  time  that  the 
work  does  not  need  to  be  accomplished 
in  a  certain  number  of  hours,  and  that 
you  can  lazily  take  your  time.  And  be 
sure  that  your  mental  attitude  is  right 
to  start  with,  for  if  you  feel  like  a  cul- 
prit stealing  a  holiday,  you  will  lose  all 
the  pleasure  in  listening  to  the  small 
news  of  the  community,  as  well  as  the 
plans  of  friends  and  the  helpful  hints  in 
their  many  suggestions. 

Perhaps  a  popular  book  may  be  pur- 
chased by  each  member  paying  a  pro- 
portionate share,  and  in  turn,  as  might 
be  determined  by  drawing,  each  could 
read  it  aloud  at  home  within  a  given  pe- 
riod, the  same  as  with  a  library  book. 
Finally,  when  all  have  finished  its  peru- 
sal, the  author's  work  may  afford  de- 
lightful discussion  for  one  of  the  club 
meetings. 

So  much  the  better,  if  some  of  the 
members  possess  a  Victrola  or  piano- 
player,  whereby  an  impromptu  concert 
can  be  given.  And  for  the  sake  of  in- 
struction, a  brief  sketch  of  the  singer  or 
composer's  life  may  be  read.  For  while 
we  may  each  pride  ourselves  on  know- 
ing something  of  the  lives  of  all  celebri- 
ties, when  it  comes  down  to  the  point, 
it  would  be  hazy,  for  these  poor  brains 
of  ours  are  crowded  with  a  nondescript 
collection  of  good  and  bad  things.  And 
it  IS  chiefly  by  repetition  that  one  re- 
members. 

The  Neighborhood  Club  takes  on  its 
atmosphere  from  its  location.  If  it  is  in 
a  mall  town,  its  outlook  is  more  or  less 
limited,  yet  it  can  bring  in  news  of  the 
outside  world,  and  help  its  members  over 
many  a  thorny  path  in  the  days  of  trib- 
ulation and  annoyances.  Enlivening  the 
week  as  it  does,  it  strengthens  one  anew 
for  other  combats,  and  gives  new  vigor 
and  strength  with  which  to  meet  burdens. 

If  the  club  is  formed  amid  suburbs,  its 
character  grows  more  or  less  cosmopoli- 
tan, in  proportion  to  its  nearness  to  the 


city.  The  theme  of  popular  plays  be- 
comes the  topic  for  afternoon  meetings ; 
little  theatre  parties  are  formed  to  go 
and  see  the  play,  perhaps  for  one  meet- 
ing. If  the  gods  are  propitious,  the  hus- 
bands are  included,  and  the  diversion 
takes  place  at  night,  with,  perhaps,  a 
dinner  before. 

Again,  the  Neighborhood  Club  need 
not  be  necessarily  confined  to  residents 
of  one  particular  portion  of  the  town, 
merely  because  its  name  implies  that. 
Its  membership,  is  gained,  of  course,  by 
invitation,  and  to  a  great  extent  by  con- 
geniality ;  for  even  if  many  people  dwell 
side  by  side  in  a  community,  it  does  not 
at  all  indicate  any  similarity  of  taste  or 
pursuit. 

As  a  plant  unfolds  its  tiny  leaves  to 
the  warming  influence  of  the  sun,  people 
generally  find  in  the  same  inexplicable 
manner  others  of  like  desires,  and  har- 
mony. Like  attracts  like.  A  fragmen- 
tary word  or  so  leads  to  the  discovery  of 
some  strong  point  in  common,  and  thus 
are  friendships  founded.  While  it  is  all 
very  well  for  the  sake  of  the  theorists 
to  consider  their  dictum  that  people  of 
dissimilar  temperament  should  be  allied, 
yet  one  must  admit  that  the  average  per- 
son prefers  one  of  similar  taste,  if  it  is 
only  for  an  outing,  or  for  a  brief  visit. 
Friends  of  similar  tastes  are  restful  and 
soothing;  a  temperament  of  opposite 
polarity  arouses  only  by  defence,  and  in- 
stead of  soothing,  one  is  challenged  into 
activity.  There  is  no  common  point  of 
understanding,  pleasant  or  otherwise,  as 
the  case  may  be,  which  is  not  what  one 
wants  for  a  quiet  hour. 

The  members  of  the  Neighborhood 
Club  should,  therefore,  have  tastes  in 
common,  or  dissension  and  strife  will 
surely  arise,  and  its  purpose  be  defeated. 
For  it  must  always  be  remembered  that 
its  organization  is  for  the  purpose  of 
neighborly  interests  and  needs,  as  well  as 
for  companionship.  A  member  must  feel 
that  she  can,  indeed,  waive  all  formality 
and  not  "dress  up"  for  the  occasion. 
She  must  be  free  to  come  and  go,  free 


NEIGHBORHOOD    CLUBS 


27 


to  speak  out  her  mind,  when  a  question 
arises,  as  well  as  to  dress  as  she  pleases. 
She  would  do  this  in  her  own  home,  and 
the  club  is  only  a  home  issue, — a  com- 
bination of  several  homes,  where  each 
member  has  a  home  privilege. 

There  are  numerous  diversions  for  the 
afternoon  as  soon  as  summer  arrives. 
If  one  has  a  garden,  an  outdoor  meet- 
ing is  pleasant.  Little  tables  for  sewing 
may  be  placed  cozily  under  the  trees,  and 
afterwards  be  used  for  serving  the  re- 
freshments. If  the  latter  are  to  be  served, 
they  may  be  selected  from  the  fruits  that 
ripen  during  the  month.  With  cake  and 
iced  tea,  sherbet  or  some  dainty  cooling 
drink,  the  needs  of  the  "inner  man"  will 
have  been  attended  to.  For  be  it  re- 
membered that  on  the  point  of  refresh- 
ments many  excellent  clubs  have  gone 
astray,  and  if  such  are  to  be  considered, 
let  it  be  instituted  at  the  start  exactly 
how  far,  or  how  little  one  can  do  in  this 
line. 

Many  hostesses  do  not  relish  the  idea 
of  having  extra  food  to  prepare,  even  if 
it  is  for  a  club  meeting.  Especially  is 
this  true  where  one  has  to  do  her  own 
work,  and  lives  far  beyond  the  aid  of  the 
stores,  and  other  figurative  "first  aids" 
in  the  housekeeping  line.  Again,  one 
may  not  be  accustomed  to  these  little 
duties,  and  hardly  knows  what  to  do,  or 
how  to  do  it  right.  Make  the  task,  there- 
fore, as  light  and  easy  as  possible.  One 
cannot  fail,  if  these  instructions  are  fol- 
lowed, for  remember  that  even  sand- 
wiches alone,  with  lemonade,  cocoa  or 
tea  become  appetizing  under  the  spirit  of 
kindness  and  good  cheer. 


When  one  has  even  one  friend  she  is 
most  fortunate.  If  she  has  more  than 
one  all  the  better.  Neighborhood  Clubs 
form  strong  ties,  and  make  friends  who 
are  willing  to  lend  a  helping  hand .  if 
emergencies  arise,  and  they  always  do 
for  the  majority  of  us,  no  matter  in  what 
part  of  the  globe  one  lives.  In  sickness, 
bereavement  and  all  dark  hours  there  is 
ineffable  solace  in  the  ministrations  of 
friends  and  their  silent  acts  of  kindness. 

The  Neighborhood  Clubs  fits  in  incon- 
spicuously into  the  every  day. life  of  a 
community,  disturbing  nothing  from  its 
ordinary  routine,  merely  checking  the 
wheels  of  the  household  for  an  occa- 
sional pleasant  afternoon.  It  takes  noth- 
ing from  its  members  and  its  return  is 
invaluable ;  for  it  gives  friends  and  cheer 
and  offers  escape  from  lonely  hours  and 
dull  thoughts.  Best  of  all  in  its  miracle- 
working  does  its  subtle  power  extend  be- 
yond physical  boundaries,  giving  medi- 
cine to  the  mind  and  to  the  soul. 

Some  women  living  in  isolated  places 
almost  forget  how  to  laugh,  or  how  to 
take  even  small  doses  of  enjoyment. 
Perhaps  the  nearest  neighbor  lives  miles 
away, — a  several  hours'  journey.  If  so, 
all  the  more  reason  for  starting  a  club 
for  making  the  acquaintance  of  other 
lonely  women  in  the  vicinity.  Exchange 
books,  plants  ideas,  words  of  cheer,  and 
remember,  what  you  give  some  one  else 
gives  back  to  you  in  multiple  form.  Best 
of  all,  the  touch  of  a  friend's  hand  is 
worth  far  more  than  the  unreckoned 
count  of  a  hundred  acquaintances.  That 
is  one  reason  why  I  am  so  enthusiastic 
over  the  Neighborhood  Club  idea ! 


Transmutation 

A  grain  of  sand  in  an  oyster's  shell 
That  it  couldn't  eject,  so  it  covered  it  well 
With  a  precious  coat  which  we  call  a  gem, 
And  deem  it  fit  for  a  diadem. 

A  bit  of  care  that  the  heart  lends  space — 
That  love  cannot  escape,  but  can  outwardly 

grace 
With  such  royal  beauty  till  all  the  world 
May  see  how  a  care  can  be  empearled. 

Eleanor  Robbiks  Wilson. 


Suggestions  on  The  Artistic  Use  of  HousefumisKings 


By  Minnie  C.  Anderson 


IN  dealing  with  the  artistic  treatment 
of  housefurnishings,  the  two  essen- 
tial elements  are  simplicity  and  in- 
dividuality. The  modern  house  of  today 
is  apt  to  be  overcrowded  with  a  same- 
ness of  furniture,  bought  because  in 
fashion,  and  with  no  meaning  for  your 
particular  home.  You  admire  the  glass 
cabinet  in  your  friend's  large  dining 
room;  don't  think  you  need  one  in  your 
small  dining  room;  you  need  the  space 
much  more. 

Fortunately,  with  the  advent  of  the 
new  Wall  Papers,  with  their  one  and 
two-toned  effects,  there  is  less  of  a  pos- 
sibility for  unattractive  backgrounds  for 
pictures  and  furniture.  Papers  in  the 
olive,  brown  and  gray  effects  are  most 
restful  and  pleasing  to  the  eye.  Green 
is  always  satisfactory  when  used  in  the 
darker  tones.  Unless  you  are  an  artist, 
avoid  strong  yellow  and  blue  greens,  or 
come  to  grief  as  I  did.  Red  and  blue 
papers  require  careful  handling.  A  red 
room  in  a  small  house  will  not  produce 
the  cheerful  effect  you  wish  to  attain; 
while  certain  gray  papers  are  beautiful 
in  Colonial  houses,  with  broad  halls  and 
stairway.  A  small  dark  hall,  or  room 
papered  in  gray,  has  a  cold  and  most 
depressing  effect.  The  size  and  height 
of  the  room  (whether  dark  or  sunny), 
and  the  use  to  which  it  is  to  be  put,  must 
always  be  taken  into  consideration. 

In  an  old  country  house  which  had 
sheltered  five  generations,  additions 
having  been  built,  from  time  to  time,  to 
suit  the  needs  or  wishes  of  its  occupants, 
was  a  room  called  the  "Garden  Room." 
It  extended  from  east  to  west,  shaded 
on  both  sides  by  elms  and  locust  trees, 
opening  through  a  vine-covered  porch 
(as  its  name  indicated)  into  the  garden. 
This  room  was  papered  in  soft  yel- 
low, with  ivory-white  woodwork,  rattan 
furniture,    one    or  two   smaller   pieces 


done  over  in  ivory  white;  the  cushions 
in  yellow,  the  pictures  (all  water  colors) 
framed  in  simple  frames  of  dull  gilt. 
There,  life  was  full  of  sunshine;  you 
felt  it,  you  knew  it. 

Another  advantage  of  the  one  and 
two-toned  effects  in  wall  papers,  is  that 
they  do  not  clash  with  the  many  colors 
that  are  brought  out  in  the  beautiful 
Oriental  rugs.  These  rugs  are  costly, 
and  we  cannot  all  have  them;  then 
choose  rugs  or  carpetings  of  neutral 
colors  or  small  figures. 

Window  draperies  add  much  to  the 
home  likeness  of  a  room.  If  one  finds 
that  the  white  or  ecru  lace,  or  net  cur- 
tains, fail  to  furnish  the  room  as  much 
as  desired,  beautiful  effects  can  be  ob- 
tained in  overhangings  of  cretonne, 
damask,  and  soft  silks,  which  harmonize 
with  the  wall  paper. 

Have  you  ever  noticed  a  sick  person, 
convalescing,  wants  all  the  unnecessary 
things  removed  from  the  room?  They 
tire,  not  rest,  the  eye;  and  a  pot  of 
ferns,  or  a  blossoming  plant,  will  give 
more  real  beauty  to  a  room  than  vases 
or  knicknacks.  If  you  have  boys,  you 
will  see,  as  they  grow  older,  their  once 
prized  souvenirs,  banners  and  photo- 
graphs (designated  as  so  much  "truck") 
are  given  a  general  clearing  out;  a  few 
"specials"  being  retained.  We  may  not 
care  to  pattern  from  the  Japanese,  the 
severe  simplicity  of  their  housefurnish- 
ings, but  we  may  learn  that  overcrowd- 
ing, either  in  draperies  or  furniture, 
detracts  rather  than  adds  to  the  attrac- 
tiveness of  our  homes. 

Young  couples  of  moderate  means 
have  a  greater  opportunity  of  adapting 
their  houses  to  themselves  and  their 
needs,  than  those  who  leave  their  furn- 
ishings in  the  hands  of  a  decorator.  The 
result  may  not  be  as  artistic,  but  it  is 
much   more   suggestive.     Their   houses 


28 


THE   HONEYMOON 


29 


cannot  be  furnished,  all  at  once,  but  a 
piece  or  two  of  furniture  is  added  from 
time  to  time.  This,  probably,  represents 
some  thought  and  self-denial;  and  the 
purchases  becomes  an  event.  If  true 
home-builders,  they  will  be  careful  in 
their  selections. 

If  one  is  fortunate  in  being  able  to 
travel,  and  in  having  money  to  spend 
(be  it  much  or  little),  reminders  of  a 
day's  pleasant  outing,  a  city  or  town 
visited,  will  be  found  in  odd  bits  of 
tapestry  or  embroideries,  foreign  prints 
and  curios,  which  give  a  most  distinc- 
tive touch  to  certain  rooms.  The  hall 
is,  usually,  considered  the  place  for  fam- 
ily portraits;  yet  I  have  seen  living 
rooms,  yes,  dining  rooms,  where  an  old 
portrait,  or  portraits,  owing  to  the  skill 
of  the  artist,  gave  the  room  a  dignity 
quite  its  own. 

If  your  house  is  large  and  you  lack 
suitable  pictures  for  so  large  a  room  or 
hall,  you  are  safe  in  choosing  a  paper 
that  furnishes  in  itself. 

When  furnishing  a  room  with  old- 
fashioned  furniture,  do  not  piece  it  out 
with  modern,  yet  many  a  modern  room 
owes  its  attractiveness  to  the  one  or  two 
heirlooms  it  contains. 

What  shall  we  do — ^many  of  us  who 
go  into  homes  already  furnished  and  are 
confronted  with  photographs  of  the 
family  in  elaborate  frames,  wax  flowers 


or  stuffed  birds  under  glass,  marble  top 
tables  and  stuffy  dust-collecting  chairs? 
We  fail  to  see  in  them  anything  of 
beauty;  but  they  are  valued  by  their 
owners,  either  from  association,  or 
money-wise.  When  you  suggest  the  re- 
moval of  the  photographs  to'a  less  con- 
spicuous place,  one  often  hears  "the 
frames  cost  so  much  apiece — the  wax 
flowers  are  quite  natural,  the  birds  were 
shot  by  so  and  so — or  it  was  a  pet  in  the 
family.  If  you  would  have  your  home 
a  beautiful  one,  love  and  consideration 
for  other's  feelings,  must  come  first; 
time  and  tact  will  do  the  rest. 

Do  you  recall  the  story  of  the  young 
couple  who  received  as  a  wedding  pres- 
ent from  a  maiden  aunt,  Rodger's  group, 
called  **You  Dirty  Boy"  (now  used  as 
an  advertisement  for  soap).  "What 
shall  we  do  with  it,"  was  ever  the  ques- 
tion, for  it  must  always  be  in  evidence, 
lest  Auntie  should  take  umbrage.  It 
was  broken — quite  by  accident.  No  one 
knew  how ;  the  pieces  were  collected  and 
put  in  a  box  in  the  tool  room.  Months 
afterward,  the  old  gardener  called  the 
mistress  to  the  tool  house;  and,  with  a 
face  beaming  with  pleasure,  showed  her 
the  carefully  mended  group,  "with  never 
a  piece  missing  ma'am." 

Warning:  If,  quite  by  accident,  you 
break  anything,  be  careful  what  you  do 
with  the  pieces. 


The  Honeymoon 

When  you  write  a  sonnet, 
Subject,  "Honeymoon," 
Take  my  word  upon  it, 
You  must  start  with  June, 
Next  comes  floral  arbor. 
Parson,  rice  and  rings; 
Lake  George  or  Bar  Harbor, 
Saratoga  Springs. 
Speak   of    blissful   creatures. 
Hotel,  waiter,  tip; 
These  are  special  features 
Of  a  wedding  trip. 
Ah,  the  end  of  pleasure! 
Back  to  work  goes  John, 
While  his  little  treasure 
Ties  her  apron  onl 

LiSLn  Davis. 


30 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


THE 
BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE 

OF 
Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics 

SUBSCRIFTION  $1.00  PER  YeAR    SiNGLE  CoPIES,  lOc 

Foreign  Postage  :  To  Canada,  20c  per  Year 
To  OTHER  Foreign  Countries,  40c  per  Year 

TO  SUBSCRIBERS 

The  date  stamped  on  the  wrapper  is  the  date 
on  which  your  subscription  expires;  it  is,  also,  an 
acknowledgment  that  a  subscription^  or  a  renewal 
of  the  same,  has  been  received. 

Please  renew  on  receipt  of  the  colored  blank 
enclosed  for  this  purpose. 

In  sending  notice  to  renew  a  subscription  or 
change  of  address,  please  give  the  old  address 
as  well  as  the  new. 

In  referring  to  an  original  entry ,  we  must  know 
the  name  as  it  was  formerly  given,  together  with 
the  Post-office,  County,  State,  Post-office  Box, 
or  Street  Number. 

StaUmtnt  0/  awturtkip  and  managtmtni  ms  requirtd  by 
th€  Acto/CoHgrtu  «f  Augtut  24,  tgi2. 

Editor:  Janet  M.  Hill. 
Business  Managers:  R.  B.  Hill,  B.  M.  Hill. 

Owners : 

B.  M.  Hill,  Janet  M.  Hill,  R.  B.  Hill. 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

published  ten  times  a  year  by 

The  Boston  Cooking- School  Magazine  Co., 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

Entikrd  at  Boston  Fo«t-office  as  Skcond-clais  Mattm 

HEALTH  FIRST 

"Health  and  happiness  fulfill  the  de- 
sires of  the  average  individual,"  says 
Doctor  Joseph  Collins,  in  his  "The  Way 
with  the  Nerves."  "The  former  often 
exists  without  the  latter,  but  a  consid- 
erable degree  of  health  is  necessary  to 
the  average  individual,  if  he  is  to  be 
happy.  Hence  the  necessity  of  avoiding 
those  experiences  which  rob  us  of  it." 
Doctor  Collins  was  discussing  the  subject 
of  alcohol,  but  what  he  says  is  quite  as 
true  with  reference  to  too  much  food, 
too  much  meat,  tea,  coffee,  excessive 
work,  injurious  clothing,  lack  of  recrea- 
tion— anything,  in  fact,  which  steps  in 
between  the  "average  individual"  and  the 
health  and  the  happiness  that  come  from 
good  health. 


AN  OPPORTUNITY 

THIS  is  the  best  number  with  which 
to  begin  a  new  subscription,  for 
the  magazine  year  begins  with  this,  the 
June- July  issue.  Our  year  ends  with  the 
May  number,  which  holds  a  Title  Page 
and  Complete  Index  for  the  year.  This 
renders  the  numbers  of  each  year  a  very 
valuable  cook-book  and  work  of  refer- 
ence, and  we  find  it  is  largely  appre- 
ciated. No  other  culinary  publication,  of 
which  we  are  aware,  maintains  this  in- 
valuable feature.  We  point  to  our  sev- 
enteen indexed  volumes  as  a  specific 
work  with  which  there  is  nothing  to 
compare. 

Why  not  begin  now  a  trial  subscrip- 
tion of  the  eighteenth  volume?  Each 
successive  volume,  we  are  sure,  is  better, 
in  every  sense,  than  the  preceding.  You 
can  not  fail  to  find  the  magazine  of  in- 
estimable helpfulness  in  your  home.  It 
will  be  well  worth  preserving.  We  can 
live  without  many  things,  but  we  can  not 
live  without  food. 

THE  BUSINESS  OF  HOUSE- 
KEEPING 

HOUSEKEEPING  is  rapidly  be- 
coming to  be  regarded  as  a  pro- 
fession. The  conditions  of  life  are  such, 
today,  that  efficiency  in  the  home  is  a 
necessity.  It  is  now  conceded,  world- 
wide, that  business  of  every  sort  must 
be  prudently  and  skilfully  conducted,  in 
order  to  avoid  inevitable  failure  and  dis- 
aster. Method  in  household  manage- 
ment has  become  a  large  factor  in  gen- 
eral economics. 

A  chief  occasion  for  the  present  high 
cost  of  living  is  the  -distance  between 
producer  and  consumer.  Food  products 
are  manipulated  and  exploited  too  much 
before  they  reach  the  larder  of  the 
housewife.  From  producer  to  consumer 
the  difference  in  price  of  commodities 
has  steadily  grown  to  be  excessive.  The 
time  has  come,  it  is  well  said,  for  the 
American  housewives  "to  organize  for 
educational,  constructive  and  defensive 


EDITORIALS 


31 


work  for  the  home."  Among  other 
things  it  is  up  to  the  housewife  today, 
to  insist  upon  sanitary  markets  and 
cleanliness  in  the  handling  of  food,  to 
demand  pure  food  products  of  all  kinds, 
— products  that  shall  be  what  they  are 
represented  to  be,  to  patronize  trades- 
men only  who  comply  with  the  laws, 
and  to  demand  fair  prices  for  all  com- 
modities; in  short,  to  work  for  honesty, 
quality,  efficiency  and  a  fair  deal  for  all. 
There  is  work  enough  for  women,  in 
the  ways  of  home-making,  profitable, 
beneficial  work,  provided  only  that  they 
will  take  advantage  of  the  opportunities 
which  are  presented  to  them.  We  want 
to  get  into  full  sympathy  and  keep  up 
with  the  progressive  spirit  of  the  day. 

ECONOMY  IN  TAXATION 

IT  is  past  all  comprehension  that  our 
legislators  and  public  officials  should 
be  so  dense  as  not  to  realize  that  people 
do  not  take  kindly  to  increase  in  rates 
of  taxation.  As  conditions  now  are,  if 
a  legislator  wishes  to  misrepresent  his 
constituency  and  become  odious,  let  him 
simply  advocate  an  advance  of  rates  in 
revenues  of  any  sort  or  description. 
The  most  glaring  and  disastrous  eco- 
nomic blunder  of  a  generation  is  the  fact 
that,  as  a  people,  we  have  steadfastly  set 
our  faces  towards  high  instead  of  low 
tariff. 

It  is  now  nearly  fifty  years  since  the 
close  of  our  civil  war.  High  tariff  was 
declared  a  war  measure,  at  the  close  of 
which  a  reduction  in  tariff  rates  was 
promised.  Promises  have  been  made 
since,  even  pledges  to  reduce  the  burden 
have  been  given.  Up  to  the  present 
time,  however,  we  have  had  little  else 
than  promises.  Instead  of  a  reduction  in 
rates  of  taxation,  through  pensions, 
implements  of. war,  etc.,  etc.,  our  burdens 
have  been  constantly  increasing.  Finally 
a  tax  on  incomes  is  to  be  imposed,  which, 
it  is  thought,  may  not  be  an  unjust  means 
of  raising  needful  revenues. 

Now  people  are  clamoring  for  a  re- 
vision of  the  tariff  that  is,  indeed,  down- 


ward; and  they  are  ready  to  submit  to 
the  result,  be  it  unmixed  good  or  ill.  A 
reduction  all  along  the  line  is  called  for. 
Taxes,  unless  they  be  self-imposed,  are 
always  odious.  Economy  is  a  wise  and 
prudent  policy  to  pursue  in  public  as 
well  as  in  private  affairs. 

KITCHEN  ALCHEMY 

IT  is  to  France  chiefly  that  the  world 
owes  this  invaluable  lesson,  which 
gives  to  those  of  moderate  means  many 
of  the  advantages  of  the  well-to-do.  In 
that  country  the  humblest  peasant  fam- 
ily enjoys  palatable  meals  because  the 
cook  is  an  alchemist  who  knows  how  to 
transmute  the  baser  metals  into  silver 
and  gold. 

The  secret  of  this  alchemy  lies  in  the 
use  of  the  stock-pot,  which  saves  for  the 
table  a  vast  amount  of  animal  and  vege- 
table nutriment  and  flavor,  such  as  in 
American  cities  and  on  American  farms 
are  wickedly  wasted. 

It  is  no  consolation  to  know  that  the 
British  are  almost  if  not  quite  as  fool- 
ishly wasteful  as  we  are.  But  they  are 
beginning  to  learn  of  the  French.  Sir 
Henry  Thompson's  "Food  and  Feeding" 
sounded  a  note  which  is  being  listened  to 
more  and  more  attentively.  A  more  re- 
cent writer  comments  instructively  on 
"French  Thrift  and  British  Waste"  : 

"In  a  French  household  such  a  thing 
as  waste  is  almost  unknown.  The  posi- 
tive waste  of  odds  and  ends  in  this  coun- 
try is  simply  appalling.  Look  not  only 
under  the  vegetable  stalls  in  our  streets, 
but  also  in  almost  all  dustbins,  and  you 
will  see  as  much  as,  if  it  had  been  kept 
clean,  might  have  given  health  literally 
to  thousands  of  people. 

Besides  the  outside  leaves  of  cabbages 
and  cauliflowers,  and  the  outside  layers 
of  onion  skin,  there  are  the  peelings  of 
potatoes,  turnips,  carrots,  and  apples, 
and  the  tops  of  beet-roots  and  turnips, 
and  the  large  outside  sticks  of  celery. 
In  France  and  other  countries  these  go, 
as  a  matter  of  course,  into  the  stock-pot. 
In  England  the  stock-pot  is  scarcely  used 


32 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


at  all  among  the  poorer  people.  It  is  not 
too  much  to  affirm  that  half  a  dozen 
changes  in  the  ways  of  English  poor 
people,  including  first  and  foremost  the 
use  of  the  stock-pot,  would  increase  our 
national  prosperity  more  than  our  social 
reformers  dream  of." — Food  &  Flavor, 


THE  MODERN  HEROINE 

Not  long  ago  a  friend  remarked  to  me, 
apropos  of  the  heroine  of  "A  Woman  of 
Genius,"  that  he  would  have  run  away 
from  that  kind  of  a  woman.  Very 
likely;  he  was  that  kind  of  a  man. 
About  the  same  time  I  heard  an  Eng- 
lishman undertake  to  tell  a  New  York 
audience  of  quite  the  better  sort  that,  if 
the  ladies  insisted  on  having  the  vote, 
men  would  no  longer  love  them,  and  he 
was  received  with  hilarious  groans.  The 
remark  and  the  incident  brought  out  for 
me  suddenly  the  extent  to  which  the 
stuffing  has  fallen  out  of  one  of  the  stock 
bogies  with  which  women  used  to  be 
terrified  into  good  behavior — ^the  fear 
that  men  would  no  longer  find  them  at- 
tractive. 

What  the  feminist  revolution  of  the 
past  few  years  has  proved  for  us  is  that 
men  are  not  so  easily  frightened  away 
from  loving  as  they  thought  they  were 
going  to  be,  and  that  women  bear  up 
under  their  defection  much  better  than 
anybody  supposed  they  would.  Follow- 
ing on  this  discovery  has  come  a  change 
in  the  character  of  the  heroine  of  fic- 
tion. 

Until  within  the  present  generation 
the  prime  requirement  has  been  that  she 
should  be  a  charmer  of  men.  She  has 
been  ravishingly  beautiful,  and  both  the 
hero  and  the  villain  were  madly  in  love 
with  her ;  this  demand  for  the  quality  of 
the  enchantress  extended  even  to  the 
villainess,  only  her  charms  were  of  the 
deadly  boa-constrictor  sort.  And  she 
must  be  also  unmaried.  Even  Charlotte 
Bronte,  who  dared  to  make  Jane  Eyre 
both  poor  and  plain,  dared  not  show  her 


other  than  able  to  draw  the  masterful 
and  caddish  Rochester  to  eat  out  of  her 
hand. 

Perhaps  the  real  cause  of  the  preva- 
lence of  the  captivating  type  in  fiction  is 
accounted  for  by  our  all  being  more  or 
less  under  the  obsession  that  forbids 
women  telling  the  truth  about  them- 
selves. We  are  not  trained  to  speak  or 
expect  the  truth,  and  the  most  advanced 
of  us  are  still  occasionally,  by  reversion, 
shocked  by  it.  The  business  of  women 
has,  for  ages,  been  held  to  be  to  please 
men,  and  men  do  not  really  care  how 
women  feel,  but  how  they  make  men  feel. 
A  woman  who  can  not  make  them  feel 
the  way  they  are  accustomed  and  wish 
to  feel  about  her  is  unwomanly.  This 
is  the  plain  definition  of  that  word.  Not 
by  any  particular  behavior,  but  by  any 
that  gives  men  sensations  at  variance 
with  their  predilections,  is  woman  un- 
sexed. 

She  once  did  it  by  putting  starch  in 
her  collar,  and  in  some  countries  she 
does  it  by  going  about  on  her  own  feet. 
What  society  has  expected  of  women  \% 
not  a  truthful  presentation  of  herself, 
but  an  acceptable  one.  If  she  hadn't  it 
by  nature,  she  must  be  trained  and 
coerced  into  it. 

We  are  still  half-unconsciously  under 
the  old  racial  habit  of  thinking  that,  if 
a  woman  fails  to  please  men,  she  fails 
in  all. 

But  just  as  women  of  today  are  aris- 
ing to  the  call  of  a  thing  higher  than  the 
personal  predilection,  the  call  of  the 
genius  of  the  race,  so  the  quality  of 
heroines  will  rise  with  them.  They  will 
be  women  fit  to  be  the  mothers  of  men ; 
whether  they  will  also  be  attractive  will 
depend  largely  on  the  quality  of  the  men. 
What  will  astonish  the  particular  man  is 
that  she  will  not  care  so  much  for  his 
opinion,  and  what  will  astonish  him  even 
more  is  that  he  will  go  on  marrying  her 
just  the  same,  for  the  genius  of  the  race 
does  not  care  a  great  deal  for  private 
opinions,  either. — Mary  Austin. 


STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 


Seasonable  Recipes 

By  Janet  M.  Hill 


IN  all  recipes  where  flour  is  used,  unless  otherwise  stated,  the  Hour  is  measured  after  sifting 
once.     Where  flour  is  measured  by  cupa,  the  cup  is  filled  with  a  spoon,  and  a  level  cupful 
is  meant.    A  tablespoonful    or  teaspoonful  of  any  designated   material  is  a  LGVBL  qMonfuI. 


Broiled  Sardines 

DRAIN  and  wipe  one  or  two  doz- 
en sardines;  let  broil  in  a  well- 
oiled  broiler  two  or  three  min- 
utes, turning  each  ten  seconds.  Dis- 
pose on  hot  slices  of  toast.  Spread  the 
sardines  with  maitre  d'  Hotel  butter  or 
pour  over  them  a  little  cream  sauce,  A 
cup  and  a  half  of  cream  sauce  will  be 
enough  for  two  dozen  sardines. 

Broiled  White  Fish,  Mackerel  and 
Bluefish 
Oil  the  broiler  thoroughly.  Do  not 
have  too  fierce  a  fire,  as  strong  heat 
hardens  the  fibres  very  quickly.  Cook 
from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Baste 
with  butter  once  or  twice  during  the 
cooking.  If  the  fish  be  thick,  the  last  of 
the  cooking  might  be  done  over  a  drip- 
ping pan  in  the  oven.  In  broiling,  turn, 
after  cooking  the  flesh  side  ten  seconds, 
the  skin  side  five  seconds.    With  a  fork 


separate  the  fish  from  the  wires  of  the 
broiler,  on  both  sides,  then  slide  to  the 
serving  dish.  Spread  with  maitre  d' 
Hotel  Butter. 

Maitre  d'  Hotel  Butter 
{For  broiled  fish,  steak  or  chops) 
Beat  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter  to  a 
cream;  beat  in  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  dash  of  pepper  and,  very  slowly, 
a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  The 
heat  of  the  broiled  article  will  melt  the 
butter.  For  a  change  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  fine-chopped  parsley  with  the  sea- 
sonings. 

Potatoes  Maitre  d'  Hotel 
For  half  a  three  or  four  pound  blue- 
fish,  broiled,  to  serve  three  or  four  peo- 
ple, cut  out  between  two  and  three  dozen 
potato  balls.  Let  cook  until  tender  in 
boiling  salted  water,  drain,  add  half  a 
cup  of  milk  and,  when  scalded,  remove 
to   a  cooler  part   of   the   stove.     Have 


34 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


ready  a  tablespoonful  of  creamed  butter 
mixed  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  half  a 
teaspoonfnl  of  salt,  a  dash  of  paprika, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice;  stir 
this  into  the  potatoes.  When  the  sauce 
thickens  a  little,  shake  the  balls  over  the 
fire  a  moment  longer.  Dispose  in  a  hot 
dish  or  on  the  dish  around  the  fish. 
Sprinkle  the  whole  with  fine-chopped 
parsley. 

Egg's  a  la  Aurora 
Toast  rounds  of  bread ;  dip  the  edges 
lightly  in  boiling  salted  water;  spread 
lightly  with  butter;  set  a  carefully 
poached,  fresh  egg  on  each  slice;  over 
three  or  four  eggs  pour  a  cup  of  sauce 
made  of  two  tablespoonfuls,  each,  af 
butter  and  flour,  one-fourth  a  teaspoon- 


the  tomatoes   in  the  dish  and  serve  at 
once. 

Eggs  Baked  with  Cheese 
Let  four  eggs,  covered  with  water  at 
the  boiling  point,  remain  on  the  stove, 
where  the  water  will  keep  hot  without 
boiling,  half  an  hour;  plunge  the  eggs 
into  cold  water,  and  when  cold  remove 
the  shells  and  cut  in  thick  slices.  Have 
ready  about  six  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
cheese,  and  a  cup  of  white  sauce  made 
with  rich  milk.  Put  a  layer  of  the  eggs 
into  an  earthen  baking  dish  and  sprinkle 
with  cheese ;  continue  until  both  the  in- 
gredients are  used ;  pour  over  the  cream 
sauce;  sprinkle  on  half  a  cup  of  cracker 
crumbs  stirred  through  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  melted  butter;  set  into  the  oven 


BROILED  BLUEFISH 


maPtre  dho\el 


ful,  each,  of  salt  and  pepper,  three- 
fourths  a  cup  of  tomato  puree,  and  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  hot  cream  or  rich  milk. 

Eggs,  Canada  Style 
Select  round  fresh  tomatoes;  cut  out 
a  piece  around  the  stem  end  of  each,  and 
remove  enough  of  the  seeds  and  pulp  to 
make  an  opening  to  hold  an  egg.  Sea- 
son the  inside  of  the  tomatoes  with  salt 
and  pepper;  break  an  egg  in  each.  Set 
the  tomatoes  in  an  earthen  baking  dish; 
pour  a  tablespoonful  of  white  sauce  over 
the  egg  in  each  tomato.  Bake  in  a  very 
moderate  oven  about  fifteen  minutes. 
Pour  a  cup  of  hot  white  sauce  around 


long  enough  to  brown  the  crumbs. 
Stuffed  Eggs  au  Gratin 
Pour  a  quart  or  more  of  boiling  water 
over  six  e^s ;  let  the  water  boil,  then 
cover  and  draw  to  a  cooler  part  of  the 
range  (where  the  water  will  not  boil), 
to  remain  half  an  hour.  Let  cool  in  cold 
water;  shell  and  cut  in  halves,  length- 
wise. Remove  and  sift  the  yolks.  Have 
ready  cooked  ham.  chicken  or  veal,  one 
or  more,  chopped  and  pounded  to  a 
smooth  paste.  To  the  yolks,  add  an 
equal  measure  of  the  meat,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  paprika,  a  little  mixed  mus- 
tard,   also    salt    as    needed.     With    this 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


mixture  fill  and  press  together  corre- 
sponding halves  of  the  eggs.  Prepare  a 
cup  and  a  half  of  bread,  tomato  or  cream 


Pilau  a  la  Turque 
Blanch    one    cup   of    rice;    add 


PILAU  A  LA  TURQUE 


sauce.  Dispose  one  half  of  the  sauce  in 
an  earthen  baking  dish ;  in  this  lay  the 
eggs  and  pour  over  the  rest  of  the  sauce. 
Sprinkle  on  half  a  cup  of  cracker 
crumbs  mixed  with  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter.  Set  into  the  oven,  to 
reheat  the  whole  and  brown  the  crumbs. 

Bread  Sauce 
To  one  cup  and  a  half  of  rich  milk. 
add  half  a  cup  of  fine,  soft  bread 
crumbs  and  half  an  onion  in  which 
three  cloves  have  been  pressed.  Let 
cook  in  a  double  boiler  about  an  hour, 
stirring  occasionally.  Remove  the  onion, 
add  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, a  scant  half-teaspoon ful,  each,  of 
salt  and  pepper,  and  beat  well. 


fourth  a  cup  of  butter  and  stir  over  the 
fire  until  the  rice  has  taken  up  the  but- 
ter; add  three  cups  of  hot  chicken  or 
veal  broth,  half  a  cup  of  tomato  puree, 
two  branches  of  parsley,  an  onion,  into 
which  three  cloves  have  been  pressed. 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  let  cook 
until  the  rice  is  done.  The  rice  should 
be  quite  dry.  Melt  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter;  in  it  cook  three  tablespoon- 
fuls of  flour  and  a  scant  half -teaspoon- 
ful, each,  of  salt  and  paprika;  then  add 
one  cup  of  broth  and  half  a  cup  of  to- 
mato puree;  stir  until  boiling;  add  one 
cup,  each,  of  cooked  chicken  and  ham. 
sliced  very  thin ;  let  stand  over  hot  wa- 
ter to  become  hot.  Remove  the  onion 
and  parsley  from  the  rice  and  dispose 


LEG  OF  LAMB.  ENGLISH  OR  LOIN  CHOPS.  RIB  OR  FRENCH  CHOP-'S 


36 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


the  rice  as  a  border  on  a  serving  dish. 
Pour  the  meat  into  the  center  and  serve 
at  once.  Tender  veal  or  lamb,  or 
chicken  alone,  may  be  used  in  this  dish. 

Chicken  Timbales 

(Cooked  Chkkm) 

Beat  two  e^s ;  add  one  cup  of  cold, 
cooked  chicken,  chopped  fine,  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  soft,  sifted  bread  crumbs,  half 
a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  pepper, 
and  one  cup  and  a  half  of  thin  cream  or 
rich  milk.  Turn  the  mixture  into  eight 
well-buttered  timbale  molds.  Set  these, 
on  several  folds  of  cloth  or  paper,  in  a 
pan  and  surround  with  boiling  water. 
Let  cook  in  the  oven  until  firm  in  the 


beaten  smooth  with  a  little  chili  sauce 
or  tomato  catsup  and  used  for  a  sand- 
wich filling. 

Cheese  Croutons 
Cut  stale  bread  in  slices  one- fourth 
an  inch  thick.  For  luncheon  or  supper. 
trim  the  crusts  and  leave  the  slices 
whole.  To  serve  with  soup  or  salad,  cut 
the  slices  in  narrow  finger-length  pieces. 
Spread  the  bread  with  butter  and  cover 
with  thin  slices  of  American  factory 
cheese.  Set  in  a  baking  dish  in  the  oven 
to  melt  the  cheese  partly.  Serve  at  once. 
The  whole  slices  are  appropriate,  at  sup- 
per or  luncheon,  with  scalloped  toma- 
toes. 


MOLDS  OF  JELLIED  HAM   AND  FISH  WITH  LETTUCE,  ETC.    (SEE  PAGE  «) 


center.  The  water  should  not  boil  after 
the  pan  is  set  into  the  oven.  The  tim- 
bales will  take  from  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes  to  cook.  Serve,  turned  from 
the  molds,  with  a  sauce  made  of  chicken 
broth  and  cream. 

Cheese  Sandwiches 
Cut  bread  in  slices  one-quarter  of  an 
inch  thick,  remove  crusts  and  trim  into 
small  shapes;  toast  a  delicate  brown, 
spread  lightly  with  a  cold  "rabbit"  of 
any  kind  and  press  together  in  pairs. 
For  afternoon  tea,  these  sandwiches 
should  be  very  small.  For  chafing  dish 
suppers  or  for  picnics,  larger  sand- 
wiches are  admissible.  Any  soft  cheese 
(even  the  common  factory  cheese,  if  it 
be  soft  enough  to  be  creamed),  may  be 


Tomato  Cream  Toast 

Melt  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter; 
in  it  cook  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
and  a  scant  half -teaspoonful,  each,  of 
salt  and  pepper ;  then  add  one  cup  and 
a  fourth  of  tomato  puree  (stewed  toma- 
toes, strained)  and  half  a  cup  of  hot 
cream.  Dip  the  edge  of  six  slices  of 
toast,  one  after  another,  in  boiling  salted 
water,  then  dip  into  the  sauce,  and  re- 
move to  a  serving  dish.  Grated  cheese 
of  any  kind  may  be  stirred  and  melted 
in  the  sauce  if  desired. 

Lima  Beans  in  Cream 

In  season  use  fresh  or  green  beans; 

at  other  times  canned  or  dried  beans  will 

give   fair   results.     If   dried   beans   are 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


CHERRY  ASPIC  SALAD 


used,  let  soak  overnight  in  cold  water; 
wash  and  drain,  then  set  to  cook  in  fresh 
water.  Simmer  until  tender,  keeping 
the  beans  whole  and  replenishing  with 
boihng  water  as  needed.  When  cooked 
the  water  should  be  reduced  to  one  or 
two  tablespoonfuls.  To  about  a  pint  of 
cooked  beans  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  half  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt 
and  black  pepper,  and  let  cook,  tossing 
meanwhile,  three  or  four  minutes;  add 
one-third  a  cup  of  hot  cream,  turn  into 
a  serving  dish  and  sprinkle  with  fine- 
chopped  parsley. 

Cherry  Aspic  Salad 
Soften  one-fourth  a  package  of  gela- 
tine in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  cold  water 
and  dissolve  in  half  a  cup  of  boiling 
water;  add  one-half  a  cup  of  sugar  and 
stir  until  melted  and  cooled  a  little ;  then 
add  the  juice  of  two  lemons  and  half  a 
cup  of  cherry  juice;  stir  in  ice-water 
until,  beginning  to   set;   then   stir   in   a 


generous  cup  of  cooked  cherries.  Turn 
into  individual  molds  or  into  a  shallow 
agate  pan.  Unmold  and  serve  with  let- 
tuce hearts  and  French  dressing.  Raw  . 
cherries,  if  the  skins  are  tender,  may  be 
used,  though  these  would  make  quite  as 
good  a  salad  without  the  addition  of  the 
jelly. 

Rhubarb  Bavariose,  Charlotte 
Style 

Soften  one-third  a  package  of  gelatine 
in  one-third  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  let 
dissolve  in  one  cup  and  a  half  of  hot 
cooked  rhubarb;  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  orange  marmalade  and  stir  over  ice- 
water  until  beginning  to  set ;  then  fold 
in  one  cup  and  a  half  of  cream,  beaten 
firm.  Turn  into  a  mold,  lined  with  lady 
fingers  and  sections  of  orange  or  can- 
died grape-fruit  peel. 

Cooked  Rhubarb  for  Bavariose 

Cut  pink,  tender  stalks  of  rhubarb  in 


BANANA  SPONGE 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


half-inch  lengths.  Use  a  scant  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  pound  of  stalks ;  let  cook 
slowly  {without  water)  until  the  rhu- 
harb  is  tender. 

Banana  Sponge 
-Soften  one-fourth  a  package  of  gela- 
tine in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  cold  water. 
Remove  the  skin  and  coarse  threads 
from  four  small  bananas,  and  press  the 
pulp  through  a  ricer.  There  should  be 
a  generous  cup  of  pulp.  Scald  the  pulp 
over  a  quick  fire;  add  the  softened  gel- 
atine and  stir  until  dissolved;  add  half 
a  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  stir  over  ice-water  until  the  mix- 
ture thickens  slightly;  then  fold  in  the 


Rice  Bavarian  Cream 

Blanch  one-fourth  a  cup  of  rice,  add 
a  scant  half  -  teaspoon  ful  of  salt  and  a 
cup  and  a  half  of  milk,  and  let  cook  un- 
til the  rice  is  tender.  There  should  be 
about  one  cup  and  a  half  of  the  rice. 
Add  half  a  cup  of  cooked  (seeded) 
raisins  or  of  cooked  chestnuts,  broken 
in  pieces,  or  of  French  candied  fruit  or 
preserved  strawberries.  Soften  one- 
fourth  a  package  of  gelatine  in  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  let  dis- 
solve over  hot  water,  and  add  to  the  rice 
mixture  with  a  scant  half-cup  of  sugar 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  stir  over 
ice  and  water  until  the  mixture  tiegins 


Z  BAVARIAN  CREAM.  WITH  STRAWBERRIES 


whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  dry.  Turn 
into  a  mold  lined  with  slices  of  banana. 
Squeeze  a  little  lemon  jiiice  over  the 
slices  of  banana  to  keep  them  from  dis- 
coloring. 

Pineapple  Sponge 
Let  two  cups  of  grated  pineapple  and 
half  a  cup  of  water  simmer  ten  or  fif- 
teen minules,  then  strain  through  a 
cheese  cloth,  pressing  out  all  the  juice. 
Reheat  the  juice  and  dissolve  in  it  one- 
fourth  a  package  of  gelatine,  softened 
in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and 
two-thirds  a  cup  of  sugar.  Let  chill  in 
a  dish  of  ice  and  water,  then  add  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  the  whites  of 
two  eggs,  beaten  dry,  and  beat  until  the 
mixture  will  hold  its  shape.  Turn  into 
a  mold.  Serve,  unmolded,  with  sugar 
and  cream  or  a  boiled  custard. 


to  thicken,  then  fold  in  one  cup  and  a 
half  of  cream,  beaten  firm.  When  the 
mixture  will  "hold  its  shape,"  (when  a 
spoonful  lifted  and  returned  does  not 
run  level),  turn  into  a  mold.  When  un- 
molded garnish  with  some  of  the  fruit 
used  in  the  dish,  or  leave  plain.  At  this 
season  the  dish  may  be  made  without 
fruit  and  surrounded  with  strawberries 
mixed  with  sugar. 

Almond  Meringues  with  Straw- 
berries and  Cream 
Beat  the  whites  of  four  fresh  eggs 
dry;  then  gradually  beat  in  one  cup  of 
granulated  sugar,  and  when  very  firm, 
take  a  spoon  and  beat  in  half  a  cup  or 
more  of  chopped  almonds.  Lightly  tack 
strips  of  waxed  paper  (such  as  is  used 
in  wrapping  butter.  &c.)  on  to  a  board 
about  one  inch  in  thickness;  with  an  oval 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


39 


dish  as  a  pattern,  pencil  out  oval  shapes 
on  the  paper.  On  half  of  these  shapes 
draw  a  second  hne.  about  half  an  inch 
from  the  first,  all  around.    With  a  spoon 


Sift  together  three  cups  of  pastry 
flour,  six  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der, and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  With 
the  tips  of  the  fingers  or  two  knives. 


i.  WITH  STRAWBERRIES  AND  CREAM 


fill  the  sohd  ovals  with  the  meringue 
mixture,  making  it  flat  on  top.  Use  a 
pastry  bag  and  plain  tube  to  fill  the 
narrow  oval  shapes ;  dredge  all  with 
granulated  sugar.  Set  the  boards  into  a 
slack  oven  to  let  the  meringues  dry  out 
rather  than  bake.  After  three-fourths 
an  hour  increase  the  heai  to  color  the 
meringues  delicately.  When  baked  lift 
from  the  paper  with  a  spatula.  Press 
the  soft  part  of  a  solid  meringue  and  an 
elongated,  ring-shaped  meringue  to- 
gether, to  form  a  case.  Fill  these,  at 
serving,  with  whipped  cream  and 
sugared  strawberries.  To  make  in  quan- 
tity allow  one  white  of  egg  and  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  sugar  for  each  meringue. 
A  cup  of  cream  and  half  a  box  of  berries 
will  fill  six.  '  -;   , 

Strawberry  Shortcake 


work  in  from  one-third  to  one-half  a 
cup  of  shortening;  then  gradually  stir 
in  milk  as  needed  to  make  a  dough  a  lit- 
tle softer  than  for  biscuit.  About  one 
cup  and  a  half  of  milk  will  be  needed. 
Spread  the  dough  in  two  well-buttered 
pans.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Spread 
the  bottom  of  each  cake  generously  with 
butter.  Have  ready  two  baskets  of  ber- 
ries, hulled,  washed,  cut  in  halves,  and 
mixed  with  two  cups  of  sugar.  Put  the 
layers  together  with  berries  between, 
above  and  around.  Serve  at  once.  For 
a  change,  serve  with  hot  marshmallow 
sauce  poured  over  each  portion. 

Hot  Marshmallow  Sauce 

Boil  one  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup 
of  hot  water  five  or  six  minutes,  after 
boiling  begins.  Do  not  stif  after  the 
syrup  boils.    Remove  from  the  fire ;  add 


PIECE  OF  STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE.  WITH   HOT  M: 


40 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


half  a  pound  of  marshmallows  and  beat 
until  they  are  melted.  Flavor  with  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  if  desired.  If 
serving  be  delayed,  keep  the  sauce  hot 
over  warm  water,  then  add  a  few  drops 
of  hot  syrup  or  boiling  water  and  beat 
again. 

Butter  Scotch  Pie 

Bake  pastry  rolled  as  for  pie  crust  on 
the  outside  of  an  inverted  pie  pan. 
Prick  the  paste  all  over  and  set  it  on  a 
tin  sheet  to  keep  the  edge  from  contact 
with  the  oven.  When  baked  set  inside 
the  pan,  turn  in  butter-scotch  filling  and 
cover  with  a  meringue,  made  of  the 
whites  of  two  e^s  and  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  granulated  sugar.  Let  bake  about 
ten  minutes.  Serve  when  partly  or 
wholly  cold. 

Butter  Scotch  Filling 

Scald  one  cup  of  milk  tn  a  double 
boiler;  stir  three  level  tablespoon fuls  of 
cornstarch  and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  with  half  a  cup  of  cold  milk  to 
a  smooth  consistency,  then  let  cook  in 
the  hot  milk,  stirring  constantly,  until 
smooth  and  thick.  Cook  two  table- 
spoonfuls   of    butter   with   one   cup   of 


brown  sugar  until  the  sugar  is  soft  and 
bubbly  throughout.  Do  not  cook  it  to 
caramel.  Stir  the  sugar  into  the  corn- 
starch mixture,  then  add  two  yolks  of 
eggs,  beaten  light  and  diluted  with  a  lit- 
tle of  the  hot  mixture.  Use  when  cooled 
a  little. 

Jellied  Fish,  Ham,  etc.,  with 
Lettuce 

Soften  one-fourth  a  package  of  gela- 
tine in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  cold  water, 
and  dissolve  in  one  cup  and  a  fourth  of 
hot,  well-seasoned  broth.  For  fish  use 
fish  or  chicken  broth ;  for  ham  or  corned 
beef  use  chicken  or  veal  broth.  Season 
the  broth  with  carrot,  parsley  and  onion 
— also  sweet  herbs  if  desired.  Add  about 
two  cups  of  cooked  ham  or  corned  beef. 
chopped,  or  the  same  quantity  of  cooked 
fish,  separated  into  flakes.  Turn  into 
molds.  Serve  unmolded,  when  cold,  with 
lettuce  and  salad  dressing.  Cucumbers 
are  good  with  the  fish. 

Before  filling  the  molds  the  letters  are 
outlined  with  the  sifted  yolk  or  chopped 
white  of  a  hard-cooked  egg.  In  like 
manner  pickles,  capers  or  parsley  may  be 
used.     See  page  36. 


HOUSEMAIDS  PAIL.  READY  FOR  USE 


Menus  (or  a  Week  in  June 

"The  more  trouble  you  take  in  kneading    the  dough,  the  more  bread  you  will  get,  and 
the  better  it  will  be.    You  cannot  get  anythi  ng  good  ivithout  work." 


< 


t/i 


Breakfast 

Strawberries 

Broiled  Sardines 

Maitre  d'  Hotel  Butter 

White  Hashed  Potatoes 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Coifee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Leg  of  Lamb,  Roasted 

Franconia  Potatoes 

Asparagus  Baked  Bananas 

Rice  Bavarian  Cream, 

Sugared  Strawberries 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Cheese  Sandwiches 

Drop  Cookies  Stewed  Prunes 

Tea 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Scrambled  Eggs,  Broiled  Bacon 

Com  Meal  Breakfast  Cake 

Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Broiled  Loin  Chops  (lamb) 

New  Peas 

Old  Potatoes  Cooked  as  New  Potatoes 

Rhubarb  Pie 

Cream  Cheese 

Tea 

Supper 

Creamed  Bluefish  au  gratin 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Baking-Powder  Biscuit 

Dry  Toast 


< 
Q 

O 


Breakfast 

Eggs  a  la  Aurore,  Radishes 

Fried  Rice 

Whole  Wheat  Baking-Powder  Biscuit 

Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Pilau  a  la  Turque 
Boiled  Spinach,  with  Eggs 
Strawberry  Shortcake 
Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Kornlet  Custard 

Rye-Meal  Muffins 

Drop  Cookies 

Tea 


Breakfast 

Creamed  Salt  Codfish      Olives 

Baked  Potatoes 

Graham  Bread 

English  Muffins,  Toasted 

Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Tip  of  the  Loin  of  Beef,  Roasted 

Mashed  Potatoes,  Browned 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

New  Turnips  Butter  Scotch  Pie 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Baking-Powder  Biscuit 

Smoked  Fish 

Strawberries 

Tea  Sponge  Cake 


< 
H 


Breakfast 

Sliced  Bananas,  Cereal,  Thin  Cream 
Poached  Eggs,  with  Creamed  Asparagus 

in  Ramekins 

Dry  Toast 

Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Bluefish,  Stuffed  and  Baked, 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Beet  Tops 

Rhubarb  Jelly 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Egg-Salad  Sandwiches 

Cream  Pie 

Tea 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Salt  Codftsh  Cakes,  Poached  Eggs 

Spider  Corn  Cake 

Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Hot,  Boiled  Fresh  or  Canned  Salmon, 

Egg  Sauce 

Boiled  Potatoes 

Green  Peas 

Cucumbers,  French  Dressing,  with  Chives 

Pineapple  Sponge  or 

Shredded  Pineapple,  Sugared 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Stewed  Lima  Beans,  with  Cream 

Cheese  Croutons 
Garden  Cress,  French  Dressing 
Tea  Cookies 


O 
W 

> 


H 

C/) 


S 


Q 
< 


Breakfast 

Strawberries 
French  Omelet,  with  Green  Peas 
Wheat  Meal  Muffins 
Coffee     Cocoa 


Dinner 
Boiled  Corned  Beef 

Boiled  Potatoes 

New  Cabbage,  Boiled 

New  Turnips,  Boiled 

Rhubarb  Pie  or 

Scalloped  Rhubarb 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

41 


Supper 
Cold  Corned  Beef,  Sliced  Thin, 
Mustard 
Yeast  Rolls 
Strawberries 
Tea 


Menus  for  Boys  from  1 4  to  16  Yeais  Old 


Set  One 


SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Boston  Baked  Beans 

Brown  Bread      Codfish  Balls 

Milk 

Dinner 

Old-fashioned  Fricasseed  Chicken,  with 

Baking-Powder  Biscuits  in  Gravy 

Mashed  Potatoes      Celery 

Pineapple  Ice  Cream 

Sponge  Cake 

Supper 

Milk  Toast 

Strawberry  Preserves 

Sponge  Cake 

Cocoa 

MONDAY 

Breakfast 

Cream  of  Wheat  with  Steamed  Dates 

Scrambled  Eggs     Bacon 

Graham  Muffins 

Milk 

Dinner 

Mutton  Stew 

Canned  Peas      Boiled  Rice 

Rhubarb  Tarts,  with  Meringue 

Supper 
Baked  Potatoes,  with  Cream 
Apple,  Celery-and-Nut  Salad 
Cup  Custards  Cocoa 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast 

Sliced  Oranges 

Fried  Cream  of  Wheat      Maple  Syrup 

Eggs  in  Shell      Toast 

Dinner 

Smothered  Round  Steak 

Spinach,  Egg  Garnish 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Cottage  Pudding,  Foamy  Sauce 

Supper 

Vegetable  Soup 

Whole  Wheat  Bread 

Apple  Snow,  Custard  Sauce 

Cookies 


WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 

Prunes 

Beef  Hash  with  Poached  Eggs 

French  Toast 

Dinner 

Veal  Cutlets 

Escalloped  Tomatoes 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange  with  Cream 

Supper 

Baked  Apples 

Cottage  Cheese 

Graham  Bread      Ginger  Bread 

Milk 

THURSDAY 

Breakfast 

Stewed  Rhubarb 

Creamed  Dried  Beef  on  Toast 

Baking-Powder  Biscuits      Honey 

Dinner 

Pot  Roast  of  Beef 

Browned  Potatoes 

Corn  Pudding 

Sliced  Oranges  and  Bananas 

Supper 

Escalloped  Eggs 

Milk  Toast 

Cream  Puffs 

FRIDAY 

Breakfast 

Petti  John's  Breakfast  Food 

Omelette 

Popovers 

Peach  Marmalade 

Dinner 

Boiled  Halibut,  Egg  Sauce 
Boiled  Potatoes      Lettuce 

Cornbread 

Lemon  Pie 

Supper 

Beef  Croquettes 

Creamed  Onions 

Creamy  Rice  Pudding 


SATURDAY 

Breakfast 

Oranges 

Bread  Griddle  Cakes      Maple  Syrup 

Cocoa  or  Milk 

Dinner 

Hamburg  Steak 

Horseradish 

Macaroni  in  White  Sauce 

Sliced  Bananas  and  Oranges 

Supper 

Boston  Baked  Beans 

Brown  Bread 

Apple  Sauce 

Cocoa 

42 


Menus  for  Boys  from  1 4  to  16  Yeais  Old 


Set  One — Simplified 


SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Boston  Baked  Beans 

Brown  Bread 

Cocoa 

Dinner 
Fricaseed  Chicken,  with  Baking-Powder 

Biscuits 

Caramel  Ice  Cream 

Sponge  Cake 

Supper 

Corn  Flakes      Sliced  Bananas 

Graham  Bread 

MONDAY 
Breakfast 

Cream  of  Wheat,  with  Steamed  Dates 

Toast 
Milk 

Dinner 

Mutton  Stew 

Boiled  Rice 

Rhubarb  Tarts 

Supper 

Apple,  Celery-and-Nut  Salad 

Cup  Custards 

Cocoa 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast 

Sliced  Oranges 

Scrambled  Eggs  and  Bacon 

Graham  Muffins 

Dinner 

Smothered  Round  Steak 

Spinach  with  Egg 

Cottage  Pudding,  with  Foamy  Sauce 

Supper 
Vegetable  Soup 
Whole  Wheat  Bread 
Sugar  Cookies 


WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 

Beef  Hash 
French  Toast 

Dinner 

Veal  Cutlets 

Escalloped  Tomatoes 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange  with  Cream 

Supper 

Baked  Apples 

Cottage  Cheese 

Ginger  Bread 

THURSDAY 

Breakfast 

Stewed  Rhubarb 

Creamed  Dried  Beef 

Toast 

Dinner 

Pot  Roast  of  Beef 

Browned  Potatoes 

Cream  Puffs 

Supper 

Biscuits  and  Honey 
Milk 

FRIDAY 

Breakfast 

Pettijohns  Breakfast  Food 

Popovers 

Peach  Marmalade 

Dinner 

Boiled  Halibut,  Egg  Sauce 

Corn  Bread 

Lemon  Pie 

Supper 

Beef  Croquettes 

Lettuce  Salad 

Creamy  Rice  Pudding 


SATURDAY 

Breakfast 

Bread 

Griddle  Cakes      Maple  Syrup 

Cocoa 

Dinner 

Hamburg  Steak,  with  Horse-radish  Sauce 

Macaroni  in  Cream 

Sliced  Bananas  and  Oranges 

Supper 

Boston  Baked  Beans 

Brown  Bread 

Apple  Sauce 

Milk 


Boys  of  14-16  years  require  the  same  amount  of  food,  approximately,  as  adults  leading  a 
moderately  active  life.  The  character  of  the  food  is  not  very  aifferent  either,  except  that  stim- 
ulants are  forbidden  and  fried  food  and  pastry,  allowed  to  a  limited  degree. 

In  an  institution  where  numbers  are  to  be  served,  it  would  be  rather  difficult  to  cut  down 
the  menus  to  one  or  two  dishes  and  appeal  to  the  varying  appetites,  unless  certain  foods  could 
always  be  kept  on  hand  and  served  as  substitutes,  such  as  dry  cereals,  milk,  bread  and  butter, 
crackers,  etc. 

43 


Menus  for  Boys  from  14  to  16  Years  Old 

5c*  Two 


SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Steamed  Dates  with  Cream  of  Wheat 

Soft  Cooked  Eggs 

Graham  Muffins      Syrup 

Dinner 

Chicken  Pic 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Tomato  Salad 

Baked  Cup  Custards 

Cookies 

Supper 

Egg  Sandwiches 

Potato  Salad 

Apple  Sauce      Cake 

Milk 

MONDAY 

Breakfast 

Rolled  Oats,  with  Cream 

Chipped  Beef  Gravy 

Milk  Biscuits  and  Honey 

Dinner 

Roast  Beef,  Gravy 

Yorkshire  Pudding 

Browned  Potatoes 

Milk  Apple  Pie 

Supper 

Cold  Sliced  Beef 

Creamed  Com 

Sponge  Cakes 

Cocoa 

TUESDAY 

Breakfast 

Bananas 

Corn  Flakes 

Griddle  Cakes  with  Syrup 

Dinner 

Meat  Loaf 

Escalloped   Potatoes 

Chocolate  Cornstarch  Pudding, 

with  Cream  or  Sauce 

Supper 

Macaroni  and  Cheese 

Stuffed  Onions 

Gingerbread  Milk 


WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 

Baked  Apples 

Rice  with  Cream 

French  Toast      Syrup 

Dinner 

Pork  Chops,  Gravy 

Baked  Potatoes      Tomatoes 

Rhularb  Pie 

Supper 

Rice  Croquettes 

Apple-and-Celery  Salad 

Berry  Sauce      Sugar  Cookies 

THURSDAY 

Breakfast 

Cornmeal  Mush      Milk 

Scrambled  Eggs  and  Bacon 

Plain  Muffins 

Dinner 

Beef  Stew  and  Dumplings 

Spinach  with  Eggs 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings  with  Cream 

Supper 

Potato  Soup      Crackers 

Popovers 

Peach  Sauce 

Cocoa 

FRIDAY 

Breakfast 

Fried   Com   Mush      Syrup 

Poached  Eggs  on  Toast 

Cocoa 

Dinner 

Salmon  Loaf 

Browned  Sweet  Potatoes 

Cabbage  Slaw 

Apple  Tapioca 

Supper 

Lettuce-and-Egg  Salad 

Prune  Sauce 

Hot  Cinnamon  Rolls 

Cocoa 


SATURDAY 

Breakfast 

Pettijohns  Breakfast  Food 

Creamed  Codfish 

Corn  Muffins 

Milk 

Dinner 

Steak  and  Gravy 

Boiled  Potatoes      Creamed  Peas 

Cottage  Pudding,  Chocolate  Sauce 

Supper 

Baked  Beans 

Brown  Bread 
Rhubarb  Sauce 
Currant  Biscuits 

44 


Menus  (or  a  Week  in  July 

"Color  and  flavor  both  aid  digestion  very  materially,  most  especially  flavor" — Luther 
Burbank,  * 


< 


< 
Q 

O 


< 
o 

CO 

g 


< 
Q 

H 

< 

V) 


Breakfast 

Raspberries 

Spanish  Omelet  Yeast  Rolls 

(reheated  in  paper  bag) 

Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Cream  of  Asparagus  Souj) 

Chicken  Broiled  in  Oven 

Mashed  Potatoes,  Vienna  Style 

New  Peas 

Sliced  Tomatoes,  Mayonnaise  Dressing 

Raspberry  Sherbet 

Sponge  Cake  (potato  flour) 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Spaghetti,  Italian  Style  Lettuce  Salad 

Baking-Powder  Biscuit,  Toasted 
Berries  Tea 


Breakfast 

Blueberries,  Thin  Cream 

Boiled  Rice 

Eggs  Scrambled  with  Chopped  Ham 

Coffee      Cocoa  Dry  Toast 

Dinner 

Fowl  Cooked  in  Fireless  Cooker 

Mashed  Potatoes 

New  String  Beans 

Mayonnaise  of  Tomatoes 

Red  Raspberry  Shortcake, 

Hot  Marshmallow  Sauce 

Small  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Mayonnaise 

of  Chicken  and  String  Beans 

Lady  Finger  Rolls 

Grape  Juice  Punch 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Chipped  Beef,  Creamed 

(with  beaten  egg) 

Corn  Meal  Muffins  Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Lamb  Broth,  with  Barley 

Hot  Boiled  Ham, 

Spinach,  with  Hard  Cooked  Egg 

Mashed  Potatoes  Banana  Sponge 

Drop  Cookies 
Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Lamb,  Potato-and-Green  Pepper  Hash 

Sliced  Tomatoes 

Hot  Buttered  Toast 

Tea      (x>coa 


Breakfast 

Red  Raspberries 

French  Omelet,  Broiled  Bacon 

Brown  Hashed  Potatoes 

Lady  Finger  Rolls  (reheated) 

Boston  Brown  Bread,  Toasted 

Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Chicken  Broth,  with  Rice 

Breast  of  Veal,  Stuffed  and  Poeled 

New  Beets,  Buttered     New  Currant  Jelly 

Bermuda  Onions,  Buttered 

Franconia  Potatoes 

Prune  Jelly,  Whipped  Cream 

Small  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Potato  Salad  Tea  Biscuit       Sardines 

Cream  Cake,  Chocolate  Frosting  Tea 


Breakfast 

Berries 
(half's  Liver  and  Bacon 
Lyonnaise  Potatoes 
Graham  Rolls  Coffee 


Cocoa 


Dinner 

Beef  Broth  with  Spaghetti 

Baked  Bluefish  (Bread  Stuffing^ 

Cucumbers,  French  Dressing  with  (jarlic 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Buttered  Bermuda  Onions 

Cherry  Pie 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Bluefish  Salad  (New  Beets  as  garnish) 

Graham  Biscuit 

Blueberries 

Cake  Tea 


Breakfast 

Berries 

Eggs  Shirred  with  Veal  and  Crumbs 

Pickled  Beets 

Boston  Brown  Bread  (reheated  in  oven) 

Dry  Toast 
Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Fresh  Fish  Chowder 

Cucumbers  with  (Thives 

Cherry  Pie 

Cheese 

Small  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Stuffed  Eggs  au  gratin.  Bread  Sauce 

Baking- Powder  Biscuit 

Berries      Sugar     Cream 

Tea 


Breakfast 

Smoked  Halibut  Balls. 

Cucumbers,  French  Dressing 

Tomato  Sauce 

Wheat  Meal  Muffins 

Coffee      Cocoa 


Dinner 

Veal  Souffle,  Mushroom  Sauce 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Beet  Greens 

Pie  of  Half-Ripe  Currants 

Cream  Cheese 

Small  Cups  of  Coffee 

45 


Supper 

Cream  Toast 

Cold  Beet  Greens  with 

Hard-Cooked  Eggs 

Berries 

Tea 


W 
D 

W 
m 

> 


d 

> 


pi 

> 


Keeping  WeD  in  Summer 

By  Minnie  Genevieve  Morse 


IT  is  a  curious  fact,  but  one  well 
established,  that  as  one  season 
succeeds  another  there  is  a  charge 
not  only  in  weather  conditions,  fasli- 
ions,  and  ways  of  living,  but  also  in 
the  character  of  the  diseases  that  are 
most  prevalent.  In  the  winter  a  lib- 
eral harvest  is  reaped  by  various  child- 
ish infections,  the  spread  of  which  is 
favored  by  indoor  life,  defective  ven- 
tilation, and  the  closer  herding  to- 
gether of  humanity,  resulting  from  the 
opening  of  schools  and  the  resumption 
of  church  and  social  activities.  Then, 
too,  diseases  of  the  respiratory  organs 
enjoy  their  greatest  popularity;  colds 
of  all  kinds,  grippe,  bronchitis  and 
pneumonia  number  their  victims  by 
scores  and  hundreds.  With  the  onset 
of  warm  weather,  however,  these  ail- 
ments, while  not  entirely  disappearing, 
cease  to  be  much  in  evidence,  giving 
place  to  totally  different  classes  of 
disorders,  among  which  the  most 
prominent  are  those  that  are  largely 
communicated  by  summer  insects, 
those  resulting  from  the  rapid  decom- 
position of  food  substances,  and  those 
produced  either  by  exposure  to  the 
sun  or  great  heat,  or  by  eating  or 
drinking  when  over-heated.  These 
facts  once  thoroughly  understood,  the 
indications  are  plain  as  to  the  direction 
to  be  taken  in  planning  a  campaign  of 
prevention. 

The  war  against  the  house-fly  will, 
if  continued  with  unabated  energy,  un- 


questionably go  far  to  wipe  certain  in- 
fectious diseases,  notably .  typhoid  fe- 
ver, off  the  face  of  the  earth.  Interest 
in  the  misdemeanors  of  the  house-fly 
is  of  recent  growth,  but  no  one  who 
once  realizes  that  the  average  number 
of  germs  clinging  to  the  legs  of  a  sin- 
gle fly  has  been  estimated  at  1,250,000, 
that  many  more  taken  into  his  diges- 
tive tract  pass  through  as  active  and 
virulent  as  before,  and  that  he  is 
equally  attracted  by  food  ready  for 
the  table  and  by  filth  of  the  worst  de- 
scription, passing  often  directly  from 
one  to  the  other,  will  ever  willingly 
tolerate  the  presence  of  flies  in  kitchen 
or  living  rooms.  Flies  travel  much 
further  than  is  generally  known,  and 
it  is  beyond  question  that  many  of  the 
cases  of  infectious  disease  that  appear 
mysteriously,  and  cannot  be  traced  to 
any  exposure  on  the  part  of  the  pa- 
tient, are  communicated  by  these  sum- 
mer pests. 

The  various  forms  of  malarial  fever, 
which  were  formerly  supposed  to  be 
due  to  the  "bad  air"  of  certain  locali- 
ties, and  especially  to  nocturnal  ex- 
posure to  it,  are  now  known  to  be 
communicated  by,  and  only  by,  a  cer- 
tain variety  of  mosquito.  The  germs 
are  not  carried  about  on  the  insect's 
body,  as  are  the  germs  of  typhoid  fe- 
ver, tuberculosis  and  infantile  diar- 
rhoea by  the  housefly,  but  within  it; 
the  micro-organism  causing  malaria 
goes  through  a  portion  of  its  life  cycle 


46 


KEEPING  WELL  IN  SUMMER 


47 


inside  the  body  of  the  mosquito.  A 
case  of  malaria  can  only  be  produced 
by  the  bite  of  a  mosquito  which  has 
previously  bitten  a  patient  suffering 
from  the  same  form  of  the  disease. 

War  to  the  death  against  house-fly 
and  mosquito,  then,  is  one  of  the  first 
essentials  for  the  prevention  of  illness 
in  summer.  Careful  screening  of  doors 
and  windows  will  accomplish  much  in 
keeping  both  flies  and  mosquitoes  out 
of  the  house,  but  in  neither  case  is  it 
a  suflicient  protection.  Where  malaria 
is  known  to  exist,  screened  verandas 
are  necessary  for  safe  out-door  life, 
especially  in  the  evenings,  when  mos- 
quitoes are  most  troublesome,  and  if, 
in  spite  of  care,  mosquitoes  are  found 
in  the  house,  it  is  best  to  protect  the 
beds  by  netting.  A  net  covering  for 
the  baby's  carriage  is  needed  even 
where  there  is  no  malaria  to  be 
dreaded.  Devices  to  exclude  mos- 
quitoes are  of  course  equally  effective 
in  keeping  out  flies,  but  as  the  latter 
are  many  times  more  numerous  than 
the  former,  and  are  most  active  during 
daylight,  when  the  constant  opening 
and  closing  of  doors  gives  them 
greater  opportunity  of  access  to  the 
house,  further  measures  are  necessary. 
A  screened-in  back  porch,  containing 
near  the  outer  door  one  of  the  many 
varieties  of  fly-traps,  is  very  effective 
in  preventing  flies  from  entering  the 
kitchen.  Fly  traps  and  fly  papers  can 
also  be  used  inside  the  house,  if  they 
are  kept  out  of  the  way  of  babies  and 
pet  animals,  but  the  most  effectual 
way  of  dealing  with  flies  within-doors 
is  by  a  faithful  use  of  the  "fly-swatter." 
House-flies  multiply  with  startling 
rapidity,  and  in  matters  of  this  sort 
eternal  vigilance  is  the  price  of  safety. 
Furthermore,  the  war  against  both  the 
fly  and  the  mosquito  must  not  be  con- 
fined to  preventing  their  access  to  the 
house  and  destroying  them  when 
there,  but  must  be  carried  into  the 
enemy's  country,  the  outer  world. 
Uncovered    rain    barrels    and    other 


standing  water,  which  are  favorite 
breeding  places  for  mosquitoes,  should 
be  carefully  screened,  while  garbage 
pails,  which  will  quickly  call  myriads 
of  flies,  should  be  thoroughly  cleansed 
on  the  outside,  tightly  closed,  and  if 
possible  provided  with  one  of  the  fly- 
traps recently  devised  for  the  purpose. 
Out-door  privies  should  be  equipped 
with  modern  sanitary  provisions 
against  the  entrance  of  flies.  Chicken 
houses,  stables,  and  out-buildings  gen- 
erally should  be  frequently  cleansed 
and  whitewashed.  It  is  true  that  such 
precautionary  measures  cost  a  certain 
amount  of  money,  time,  and  trouble, 
but  one  serious  illness  in  the  house- 
hold will  eat  up  far  more  of  all  three. 
Another  very  common  cause  of  ill- 
ness in  summer  is  the  eating  of  food 
in  which  putrefactive  changes  have  be- 
gun to  take  place.  It  is  not  always 
possible,  when  one  is  traveling,  living 
in  hotels,  or  visiting  in  other  people's 
houses,  to  know  much  regarding  the 
source  of  the  food  supply,  but  the 
housekeeper  who  herself  doe^  the  or- 
dering for  the  family,  and  keeps  watch 
over  the  condition  of  ice-box  and  pan- 
try, can  to  a  very  large  extent  prevent 
the  occurrence  of  the  poisoning  acci- 
dents of  which  one  hears  so  frequently, 
and  which  often  result  so  tragically. 
It  may  be  a  temptation  to  the  econom- 
ical housewife  to  buy  of  the  butcher 
whose  meat  is  a  few  cents  less  a  pound 
than  at  the  highly  recommended  mar- 
ket in  the  next  block,  but  she  will  do 
well  to  make  sure  of  the  quality  of 
his  wares,  especially  in  summer,  when 
the  out-door  temperature  does  not  fur- 
nish a  natural  cold-storage  system 
to  preserve  questionable  food.  The 
tradesman  who  is  known  to  conduct 
his  business  in  the  most  up-to-date 
and  sanitary  manner  is  the  safest  man 
to  deal  with,  even  if  one  must  buy 
meat  a  little  less  frequently.  A  close 
watch  over  the  way  in  which  supplies 
are  cared  for,  after  arrival  at  the 
house,  is  also    necessary,    for    many 


48 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


kinds  of  food  can  deteriorate  very  rap- 
idly in  a  hot  kitchen.  Moreover,  there 
are  certain  articles  of  which  one 
should  be  especially  suspicious  in  hot 
weather,  and  among  these  fish  holds 
prominent  place.  At  the  seaside, 
along  trout  streams,  and  in  other  lo- 
calities where  the  time  between  the 
catching  of  the  fish  and  its  appearance 
on  the  table  is  very  short,  nothing 
can  be  nicer  than  this  kind  of  food  for 
the  summer  table;  but  where  this  is 
not  the  case  it  is  wiser  to  omit  it  alto- 
gether from  the  menu  in  very  warm 
weather. 

Fortunately  for  the  housekeeper,  her 
family  are  really  better  off  with  a 
diminished  supply  of  protein,  and  es- 
pecially of  the  red  meats,  during  the 
hot  months,  and  the  abundant  summer 
fruits  and  vegetables  can  take  a  lead- 
ing place  in  the  bill  of  fare.  Even 
these,  however,  may  prove  unfriendly 
under  certain  conditions.  If  there  is 
any  suspicion  that  fruit,  which  is  to 
be  eaten  without  cooking,  has  met 
with  any  uncleanly  handling,  it  should 
be  thoroughly  washed  before  being 
sent  to  the  table.  It  may  be  com- 
plained that  berries  lose  something  of 
their  flavor  by  this  process,  but  the 
injury  is  negligible  compared  with  the 
possible  results  of  neglecting  such 
precaution.  The  danger  of  serving  un- 
ripe or  over-ripe  fruit  has  been  proved 
so  many  times  that  it  is  unnecessary 
to  dwell  on  it;  but  even  the  best  fresh 
fruit  and  vegetables  should  be  avoided 
by  anyone  suffering  from  an  over- 
active condition  of  the  bowels.  Cer- 
tain individuals,  moreover,  are  unable 
to  eat  certain  articles,  notably  straw- 
berries and  tomatoes,  without  unpleas- 
ant effects,  such  as  rheumatic  attacks 
or  a  skin  eruption;  these  persons 
should  allow  no  exceptions  to  their 
rule  of  self-denial. 

The  question  of  a  pure  milk  supply 
is  one  of  the  most  important  factors  in 
the  summer  welfare,  in  the  case  of 
children  even  more  than  of  adults ;  and 


here  again  the  best  is  none  too  good 
for  one's  household.  The  water  sup- 
ply in  cities  is  usually  safe,  in  these 
days,  but  wells  in  country  places  are 
not  always  above  reproach,  while 
drinking  from  wayside  springs,  whose 
origin  is  not  known,  is  always  a  dan- 
gerous procedure.  A  fatal  case  of  ty- 
phoid fever  known  to  the  writer  is 
supposed  to  have  been  due  to  drinking 
from  a  contaminated  spring  while 
driving  about  a  country  district. 
Whether  in  town  or  out  of  it,  if  there 
is  any  uncertainty  regarding  the  purity 
of  the  water  used  for  drinking  pur- 
poses, the  wisest  plan  is  to  drink  one 
of  the  many  bottled  spring  waters,  or 
else  to  boil  all  the  water  use'd.  If  milk 
is  boiled,  it  becomes  very  constipat- 
ing; but  if  it  is  merely  "pasteurized," 
or  brought  to  just  below  the  boiling 
point,  and  kept  there  for  twenty  min- 
utes, all  injurious  germs  in  it  are  de- 
stroyed. The  necessity  for  great  care 
in  the  cleansing  of  milk  bottles,  and 
the  danger  of  giving  young  children 
milk  that  has  been  allowed  to  stand 
about  unprotected,  are  too  generally 
understood  by  the  twentieth  century 
mother  to  be  dwelt  upon  here. 

While  cold  and  especially  iced  foods 
are  particularly  agreeable  in  summer, 
there  are  certain  dangers  connected 
with  their  use  which  should  not  be  for- 
gotten. On  even  the  hottest  day,  it  is 
risky  to  serve  a  meal  at  which  the 
greater  part  of  the  dishes  are  ice-cold, 
for  the  eating  of  very  cold  food  re- 
tards digestion,  and,  carried  to  excess, 
may  cause  a  serious  disturbance.  This 
is  even  more  true  of  the  taking  of  iced 
food  and  iced  drinks  when  over- 
heated; severe  illness  and  even  imme- 
diate death  have  been  known  to  re- 
sult from  carelessness  in  this  particu- 
lar. A  medical  man  once  said  in  the 
hearing  of  the  writer  that  ice-water 
was  an  insult  to  the  stomach;  and 
when  a  person  has  been  exercising 
violently  on  a  hot  day,  or  is  thoroughly 
over-heated  by  exposure  to  the  sun  or 


KEEPING  WELL  IN  SUMMER 


49 


a  very  high  temperature,  the  shock 
produced  by  the  hasty  drinking  of  ice- 
cold  fluids  or  the  eating  of  ice-cream 
may  be  a  deadly  insult  not  only  to  the 
stomach  but  the  whole  organism,  and 
the  most  disastrous  results  may  fol- 
low. The  drinking  of  plenty  of  cool 
water  is  of  especial  value  in  summer, 
when  the  body  perspires  most  freely; 
but  ice-water,  particularly  when  taken 
rapidly  and  in  large  quantities,  is  good 
for  no  one,  and  those  who  can  teach 
themselves  to  drink,  instead,  water  of 
a  temperature  differing  less  violently 
from  that  of  their  bodies,  are  sure  to 
be  the  better  for  it  in  the  long  run. 

Soft  drinks  of  all  descriptions,  espe- 
cially soda  water,  have  an  enormous 
sale  in  hot  weather,  and  what  has  been 
said  of  drinking  cold  water  when  over- 
heated is  even  more  emphatically  true 
in  their  case,  as  these  popular  and 
delicious  combinations  of  carbonated 
water,  fruit  syrups  and  sugar  may 
work  woe  to  the  digestive  machinery, 
where  water  alone  would  not  do  so. 
Furthermore,  young  people  are  often 
given  to  treating  one  another,  in  turn, 
to  soda  water  and  other  iced  drinks, 
thus  perhaps  indulging  in  them  several 
times  in  one  afternoon  or  evening. 
Even  if  the  strong  digestive  power  of 
healthy  youth  preserves  them  from 
immediate  disaster,  such  habits  may 
lay  the  foundation  for  trouble  later  in 
life. 

Actual  sunstroke  is  not  of  very  fre- 
quent occurrence  in  temperate  lati- 
tudes, except  among  those  engaged  in 
laborious  occupations,  which  expose 
them  to  the  direct  heat  of  the  sun  or 
to  very  high  artificial  temperatures, 
and  among  heavy  eaters  and  drinkeis, 
especially  the  latter.  However,  it  is 
by  no  means  unknown  under  other 
conditions,  and  heat  prostration,  which 
is  quite  a  different  affection,  and  needs 
exactly  opposite  treatment,  is  very 
common.  Sunstroke, — or,  more  prop- 
erly, heatstroke,  since  direct  exposure 
to  the  rays  of  the  sun  is  not  necessary 


to  produce  it, — is  characterized  by 
very  high  bodily  temperature,  absence 
of  perspiration,  and,  usually,  uncon- 
sciousness. In  heat  prostration,  the 
body  is  cool,  and  the  patient  pale, 
weak,  sick  and  faint ;  an  attack  may  be 
so  slight  as  to  produce  merely  a  head- 
ache and  a  sense  of  exhaustion,  or  so 
severe  as  to  cause  the  patient's  death 
from  failure  of  the  heart.  In  heat- 
stroke the  temperature  must  be  low- 
ered by  a  cold  bath,  cold  wet  packs, 
or  the  application  of  ice  to  the  body; 
heat  prostration,  on  the  other  hand, 
should  be  treated  by  rest  and  stimula- 
tion, as  in  the  case  of  faintness  and 
exhaustion  from  other  causes.  A  per- 
son who  has  once  been  affected  is  very 
liable  to  a  repetition  of  the  experience, 
and  in  order  to  keep  in  good  condition 
during  the  heated  term,  he  should,  as 
far  as  possible,  avoid  exposure  to  the 
sun.  Nor  is  it  well  for  those  who  have 
never  suffered  from  this  cause  to  be 
too  confident  of  their  ability  to  with- 
stand the  power  of  Old  Sol's  rays. 

Playing  tennis  or  baseball,  or  even 
golfing  or  walking,  especially  bare- 
headed, under  the  blazing  sun  of  a 
midsummer  day,  when  the  thermometer 
is  high  and  the  humidity  considerable, 
is  not  a  wise  proceeding  even  for  the 
strongest;  and,  though  children  will 
often  continue  their  out-door  play 
with  little  regard  for  the  heat,  they 
should  be  kept  in  the  shade  and  pre- 
vented from  engaging  in  too  strenuous 
forms  of  amusement  during  the  hot- 
test hours  of  the  day. 

The  substitution  of  gas  and  electric 
stoves  and  fireless  cookers,  as  far  as 
possible,  for  the  coal  range  in  the 
kitchen  will  do  much  to  prevent  dan- 
ger from  working  in  an  over-heated 
room  to  those  who  have  in  charge  the 
preparation  of  meals  for  the  house- 
hold, while  the  use  of  gas  or  electric 
irons  will  save  not  only  time  and 
trouble,  but  much  of  the  discomfort  of 
laundry  work,  which  is,  perhaps  the  most 
trying  of  all  housework. 


Cold  Dishes  for  Hot  Days 


By  Marian  C.  Kellar 

Freah  Fruih  ^es/ 


FREEDOM  from  the  preparation 
of  hot  heavy  dishes  should  be 
the  housewife's  declaration  of  in- 
dependence during  the  long  summer 
months.  When  possible,  it  is  a  good  plan 
to  follow  the  custom  of  the  women  in 
the  smaller  towns,  and  serve  the  hot 
meal  at  noon,  and  a  cold  supper,  gener- 
ally with  a  creamed  vegetable  and  tea 
biscuits  as  the  hot  dish.  Cold  sliced 
meat,  salad  and  fresh  fruit  complete  this 
sensible  menu. 

The  dishes  which  custom  has  made  us 
serve  hot,  but  which  can  be  served  cold 
and  made  just  as  tasty,  are  legion.  Na- 
ture intended  us  to  eat  fruits  and  vege- 
tables fresh  as  possible  in  the  summer, 
as  they  are  more  cooling  to  the  blood, 
and  it  is  popular  and  sensible  to  substi- 
tute them,  especially  fruit,  as  a  first 
course  instead  of  hot  soup, — fresh  ber- 
ries, mixture  of  fruits,  sweetened  and 
kept  on  ice  for  an  hour  or  two  before 
serving,  pineapple,  orange,  bananas  and 
melons.  With  a  big  spoon  "eggs"  may 
be  scooped  from  the  pink  pulp  of  the 
watermelon.  The  effect  of  the  pink  eggs 
on  a  bed  of  ice  or  grape  leaves,  as  a  first 
course,  with  pink  flowers  in  the  center 
of  the  table,  is  cooling  in  itself. 

An  appetizing  hors  d'ccuvre  for  sum- 
mer consists  of  two  not  too  thick  slices 
of  firm  ripe  tomato  for  each  plate.  To 
a  French  dressing,  mad6  with  half  a  tea- 
spoon of  mustard  and  an  extra  drop  of 
vinegar,  add  fine-chopped  watercress 
until  thick;  cover  each  slice  and  put  two 
together  in  a  sandwich.  On  top  lay  an 
anchovy,  curled  as  it  comes  from  the 
bottle. 

A  tasty  and  beautiful  first  course  for 
dinner  is  formed  of  bananas.  Select 
perfect  fruit,  pale  yellow  and  without 
specks,  and  not  too  large.     Prepare  one 


for  each  guest.  Cut  the  bananas  length- 
wise, not  separating  the  two  pieces  at 
the  stem  end,  so  that  a  case  is  formed. 
Remove  the  fruit  and,  with  a  scoop,  make 
four  round  balls.  Put  these  back  in  the 
skins  and  pour  in  as  much  sweet  lemon 
gelatin  as  the  skin  will  hold.  Lay  the 
lid  back  and  place  on  ice.  When  opened 
the  banana  looks  like  a  mammoth  yellow 
pea  pod.  Eat  with  a  spoon.  This  is, 
also,  good  for  dessert. 

For  variety  there  are  baked  fruits, 
peaches,  baked  just  as  you  bake  apples, 
taking  out  the  peach  stones  and  filling 
the  cavity  with  chopped  nuts,  raisins, 
and  sugar.  Set  the  peaches  in  a  pan  with 
a  little  water  and  bake.  Serve  each  in 
an  individual  glass  with  whipped  cream. 
Bananas  may  be  baked  in  their  skins  for 
twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  then  arranged 
on  a  hot  dish  with  melted  currant  jelly, 
poured  over  them. 

A  popular  hot  weather  dessert  is  to 
take  half  of  a  cantaloupe  and  fill  it  with 
ice  cream  or  ice.  Pulled  pineapple  is 
always  acceptable  for  a  first  course  or 
for  dessert. 

Pare  the  pineapple,  take  out  the  eyes 
with  a  sharp  knife,  then  pull  the  pulp 
apart,  using  two  forks.  Only  ripe  sweet 
pineapples  should  be  used.  The  pine- 
apple shell,  when  left  intact,  makes  a 
pretty  receptacle  for  a  fruit  salad. 

Vegetable  salad  can  be  made  from  a 
small  quantity  of  vegetables.  A  combi- 
nation salad  for  six  persons  can  be  made 
from  two  tiny  heads  of  lettuce,  two  or 
three  tomatoes,  one  cucumber,  one  green 
pepper,  and  a  couple  of  radishes.  When 
the  ingredients  are  sliced  thin  or  chopped 
fine,  they  go  farther  than  one  would 
imagine.  The  odds  and  ends  of  fruit 
left  in  berry  boxes  and  baskets  will 
combine  into  a  delicious  fruit  salad. 


60 


COLD  DISHES  FOR  HOT  DAYS 


51 


Making  Work  Easier 

One  vital  secret  of  making  one's  work 
easier  in  hot  weather  is  to  buy  food  in 
small  quantities.  Let  the  grocer  and 
butcher  keep  food  f reish  in  their  big  ice 
boxes.  Even  if  you  have  to  make  more 
trips  to  them,  you  will  have  dollars  by 
not  having  to  throw  out  spoiled  meats, 
vegetables  and  fruits.  ' 

Shun  big  roasts  unless  the  family  is 
large;  small  steaks,  chops,  cutlets, 
chicken  croquettes,  veal  and  beef  loaves, 
sweetbreads,  kidney,  heart  and  tender- 
loins,— ^these  oflFer  a  great  variety  in  the 
way  of  preparation  and  are  just  as 
wholesome  and  much  cheaper  than  big 
roasts;  but  the  less  meat  we  eat  in  hot 
weather  the  better  for  us.  Many  house- 
wives only  serve  meat  once  a  week  dur- 
ing July  and  August.  Eggs  are  the  most 
popular  substitute. 

Foreigners  have  learned  the  art  of 
serving  vegetables,  cold,  with  oil,  vine- 
gar, chopped  parsley  and  a  hint  of  onion. 
Asparagus,  tomato,  cauliflower,  string 
beans,  beets  and  spinach,  are  the  best 
liked  for  cold  service. 

In  Place  of  Meats 

One  can  dispense  with  meat  even  at 
a  company  luncheon,  by  making  a  spe- 
cialty of  some  attractive  vegetable  dish; 
and  this  may  be  served  either  as  a  first 
course  or  as  a  salad.  Stuffed  peppers, 
tomatoes,  and  potatoes  are  popular  for 
luncheon  and  supper  dishes.  Here  are 
some  rules  for  the  preparation  of  these 
dishes. 

New  Corn  Puddings — Grate  the  corn 
from  one  dozen  ears,  add  two  eggs,  one- 
half  pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bake  in  in- 
dividual molds,  in  a  moderate  oven,  for 
three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Unmold 
when  cool  on  a  large  platter,  cover  with 
a  white  sauce  and  place  around  the  edge 
a  border  of  tomato  fritters,  and  then  a 
wreath  of  parsley.  The  color  combina- 
tion is  good  and  the  dish  is  delicious. 


Stuffed  Green  Peppers — Cut  the  stem 
end  from  green  peppers  of  equal  size  and 
remove  the  seeds  and  white  skin.  Par- 
boil and  stuff  with  cooked  rice  or  maca- 
roni, minced  chicken  or  veal,  bread- 
crumbs, and  chopped,  hard-boiled  eggs. 
Season  with  minced  parsley,  onion  juice 
and  salt.  Moisten  with  stock.  Bake  in 
a  pan  with  a  little  water  until  they  are 
tender,  but  not  overdone. 

Stuffed  tomatoes  may  be  prepared  in 
the  same  way,  with  the  same  mixtures. 
Stuffed  potatoes  are  a  very  good  dinner 
dish,  also  potatoes  au  gratin;  both  take 
the  place  of  meat. 

Well-Seasoned  Cold  Soups 

When  you  get  in  the  habit  of  serving 
cold  soups,  you  will  never  set  a  dish  of 
hot  soup  before  your  family  in  dog  days. 
The  cold  soups  are  really  aspic,  made  of 
soup  stock  and  vegetables,  just  as  any 
soup  is  made  and  thickened  with  enough 
gelatin  to  give  them  the  proper  consist- 
ency. Cold  soup  is  served  in  cups. 
Chicken  comes  first  in  popularity,  then 
tomato,  then  beef  stock.  Of  course,  in 
preparing  soup  to  be  served,  it  must  be 
well-seasoned,  for  you  wish  your  family 
to  like  it  instantly. 

Parsley,  celery  and  bay  leaves  give 
chicken  soup  a  good  flavor,  and  a  bit  of 
red  pepper  adds  piquancy.  The  water  in 
which  the  vegetables  were  boiled,  and  the 
creamed  vegetables,  left  over,  may  be 
converted  into  summer  soups,  cream 
soups,  by  the  addition  of  milk  and  soup 
stock,  thickened. 

When  the  vegetables  are  used,  as  spin- 
ach, celery,  asparagus,  peas,  or  beans, 
they  are  first  cooked  until  tender,  then 
rubbed  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  added 
to  the  milk  and  soup  stock  in  the  pro- 
portion of  two  cups  of  vegetable  pulp 
to  one  quart  of  soup  stock  or  milk,  or 
half  stock  and  half  milk. 

Gelatin  as  an  Ally 

Gelatin  is  the  housewife's  best  ally  in 
summer.  By  its  aid  she  can  evolve  many 
delicious  cold  dishes,  but  it  must  always 


52 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


be  flavored  to  render  it  digestible  and 
nutritious.  Aspic  is  gelatin  made  of 
meat  stock.  One  can'  make  a  great  va- 
riety of  vegetable  aspics.  Boil  carrots, 
lima  or  string  beans,  beets  and  aspara- 
gus, and  when  cold  cut  them  into  fancy 
shapes  or  dice  them.  Arrange  in  layers 
and  cover  with  the  aspic,  letting  each 
layer'  harden  a  little  before  arranging 
the  next.  When  covered  with  the  aspic 
set  away  to  harden.  Chicken,  tongue, 
and  other  meat  aspics  are  always  well 
liked.  If  one  has  only  a  few  slices  of 
chicken,  ham  and  tongue,  these  can  be 
made  into  an  attractive  dish  by  garnish- 
ing the  platter  with  little  molds  of  aspic, 
hard-boiled  eggs,  slices  of  beet  pickles, 
and  a  border  of  cress.  Everything  here 
is  good  and  nutritious. 

Cold  boiled  fish  are  delicious  when 
covered  with  jellied  mayonnaise  and  dec- 
orated with  capers,  beets,  lemon  points 
and  so  on.  Cold  eggs  may  be  served  in 
a  variety  of  ways  during  the  summer. 
Little  individual  ramekins  are  nice  for 
serving  shirred,  poached  or  cold  eggs, 
custards  and  souffles.  There  is  less 
waste  of  foods  served  in  individual 
forms  than  from  a  large  dish. 


Ideal  Hot  Weather  Menus 

An  ideal  menu  for  a  June  luncheon 
consisted  of  cold  consomme  in  cups,  cauli- 
flower in  ramekins,  asparagus  salad,  each 
tip  passed  through  a  ring  of  pimentos, 
and  served  with  French  dressing.  The 
dessert  was  a  slice  of  sponge  cake  over 
which  was  poured  a  sauce  made  of 
strawberries,  prepared  as  for  shortcake, 
with  creamed  butter  and  sugar.  The 
sauce  is  poured  over  the  cake  at  table, 
so  that  it  has  no  time  to  become  soggy. 
Chicken  croquettes  were  also  served  with 
lemon  sauce. 

For  a  dainty  Sunday  evening  tea  the 
menu  may  be  aspic,  cream  of  pea  soup, 
a  fruit  salad,  toasted  crackers  and  cream 
cheese,  and  ice  cream  served  in  individ- 
ual forms,  with  vanilla  wafers.  An 
emergency  dessert,  and  a  good  one,  is 
quickly  made  by  slicing  as  many  bananas 
as  there  are  people  to  serve  into  a  deep 
glass  dish.  Sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar  and  pour  over  one-half  as  many 
tablespoons  of  lemon  juice  as  there  are 
bananas  used.  Heap  upon  the  sliced 
fruit  whipped  cream,  and  sprinkle  with 
crystallized  ginger,  cut  in  fine  straws. 


Simple   Living 


Ifs  perfectly  splendid  how  healthy  we  feel 

Since  restricting  ourselves  to  "one  thing  at  a  meal" 


Now,  dear,  come  to  supper;  strong  bouillon 

and  toast 
And  think  of  our  neighbors  ^11  heavily  dosed 
With  soup,  fish,  meat,  salad,  dessert,  coflFee, 

cheese, 

While   we   are   contented   with   just   one   of 
these. 

Do  sprinkle   some  Worcestershire   into  your 
cup: 

I  think  that  the  bouillon  needs  livening  up; 

And  then  spread  your  toast  with  this  fresh 

mayonnaise 

It's  fine!    Fve  had  nothing  so  tasty  for  days; 
And  wouldn't  this  mayonnaise  go  well  with 

pears? 
All   right!   there   they   are  by   the   chocolate 

eclairs. 


And  while  you  are  up,  darling,  reach  down 
those  dates 

And  the  walnuts  and  figs  and  those  two  din- 
ner plates — 

Fresh  cookies?  They're  up  on  the  shelf  in 
that  jar 

Where  the  fruit  cake  and  crullers  and  ginger- 
snaps  are. 

Your  mother  sent  over  some  nesselrode  too; 

It's  awfully  rich  but  I  like  it— don't  you? 

Well  scoup  out  your  half  and  then  pass  it  to 
me 

While  I  brew  a  pot  of  that  lovely  strong 
tea 

All  finished!  and  oh,  how  aesthetic  wc  feel 
Just  because  of  our  rule  of  one  thing  at  a 
meal. 

Jani  Buu. 


Making  The  Home  G)mfortable  for  Summer 


By  Anne  Guilbert  Mahon 


I  SPEND  my  summers  at  home," 
said  a  busy  woman.  **My  husband 
gets  no  vacation  during  the  sum- 
mer, and  I  do  not  feel  Hke  leaving  him 
alone.  Apart  from  a  few  week-end  trips 
together,  and  a  day's  outing  once  in 
awhile,  I  am  at  home  all  summer — in  the 
city. 

"I  manage  to  keep  very  comfortable 
and  happy,  too.  Sometimes  I  think  I 
am  happier  than  some  of  my  friends 
who  go  away  f  on  the  whole  summer  and 
who  do  not  always  find  the  place  chosen 
for  their  vacations  satisfactory. 

"I  prepare  for  the  summer,  however, 
just  as  if  I  were  going  away,  and  I  try 
to  get  all  the  benefit  I  can  from  change. 
In  the  first  place,  I  make  my  home  as 
different  as  I  can  from  what  it  is  in 
winter.  That  provides  some  sort  of  a 
change,  you  know,  even  to  make  the 
rooms  look  different,  to  change  the 
furniture  around.  I  fix  my  house  up  es- 
pecially for  summer.  I  try  to  make  it 
look  as  cool  and  as  restful  and  as  com- 
fortable as  I  can  during  the  hot  days, 
and  also  to  have  it  in  a  condition  which 
entails  as  little  labor  as  possible  for  me 
to  keep  it  clean  and  in  order. 

"All  the  heavy  draperies  I  take  down 
in  the  spring,  and  I  get  cool-looking 
scrim  to  take  their  places.  A  pale  tan 
scrim  with  light  green  stripe  is  very  cool 
and  refreshing  to  the  sight.  These  cur- 
tains are  easily  laundered  and  kept 
fresh,  too. 

"All  small  pictures  and  useless  orna- 
ments I  put  away.  No  bric-a-brac  is  left 
out  except  what  we  absolutely  need — a 
vase  or  two  for  fresh  flowers  and  other 
things  which  we  use.  Dusting  a  lot  of 
small  things  each  day  is  very  wearying 
when  the  hot  days  come,  so  I  eliminate 
as  much  of  it  as  possible;  besides,  the 
rooms  when  not  cluttered  up  with  a  lot 
of  small  things  seem  ever  so  much  more 


spacious  and  cool-looking.  Large  pic- 
tures I  cover  with  very  fine  netting  to 
keep  them  from  being  fly-specked  or 
dust-marked. 

"The  furniture  is  covered  with  cool 
green  and  white,  striped  linen,  and  I 
have  the  rugs  sent  to  the  cleaners  and 
cool  green  matting  ones  substituted  for 
them  during  the  summer.  You  would 
not  believe  the  difference  it  makes  in 
the  appearance  of  the  rooms,  nor  how 
much  cooler  and  more  inviting  they  look 
on  hot  days. 

"At  the  first  approach  of  warm 
weather  we  have  our  awnings  put  up, 
so  we  can  keep  the  rooms  shaded  and 
comparatively  cool  during  even  the  hot- 
test part  of  the  day.  Indeed,  when  I 
look  around  my  cool,  comfortable,  taste- 
ful rooms,  on  a  blazing  hot  day  in  Au- 
gust, and  think  of  the  stuffy,  cooped-up 
little  bedroom  I  might  be  occupying  in 
even  one  of  the  best  summer  hotels,  and 
when  I  contrast  my  utter  freedom  and 
independence  with  the  restricted  Ufe  in 
a  boarding  house,  no  matter  how  de- 
sirable it  may  be,  I  think  sometimes  that 
I  am  a  fortunate  being  to  be  so  comfort- 
able, even  if  I  am  obliged  to  stay  at 
home,  in  the  city. 

"I  am  my  own  cook,  and  I  prepare 
for  summer  comfort  in  the  kitchen  just 
as  I  do  in  the  rest  of  the  house.  With 
my  gas  range  and  fireless  cooker  I  am 
able  to  keep  my  kitchen  as  cool  as  any 
of  the  other  rooms.  We  believe  in 
eliminating  much  meat  and  all  heavy, 
rich,  made  dishes  and  pastry  from  our 
bills  of  fare  on  the  hot  summer  days. 
Being  in  town,  we  have  the  best  choice 
of  all  the  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables, 
which  to  our  minds  make  the  most  sat- 
isfactory meals  during  the  hot  days.  I 
always  keep  on  hand  a  stock  of  good 
canned  supplies — for  use  in  case  of 
emergencies,  if  the  day  should    be    too 


^3 


54 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


hot  to  go  out  to  market,  or  if  company 
drops  in  unexpectedly.  I  try  to  make 
my  work  as  easy  and  light  as  I  can  by 
avoiding  all  unnecessary  duties.  I  real- 
ize that  everyone  needs  a  vacation,  es- 
pecially in  summer,  and  I  try  to  take 
one,  even  if  I  have  to  stay  at  home — in 
the  city.  I  always  have  on  hand  several 
of  the  latest  books,  the  current  maga- 
zines, a  bit  of  attractive  fancywork  to 
pick  up  on  warm  afternoons  when  I  feel 
so  inclined,  just  asi  if  I  were  going  to  be 
away.  It  makes  me  feel  that  I  am  rest- 
ing and  enjoying  myself. 

"I  enjoy  the  freedom  of  my  home.  I 
can  dress  as  I  please.  I  can  do  as  I 
please.  One  cannot  always  say  the 
same  when  boarding  at  some  resort.  I 
have  the  privileges  of  my  bath  and 
shower  whenever  I  wish  it.  I  can  seek 
the  coolest  spot  in  the  house  and  stay 
there  as  long  as  I  want.  I  am  not  con- 
fined to  one  room.    On  rainy  days — and 


often  we  have  many  of  them  in  the 
summer — I  always  thank  my  lucky  stars 
that  I  am  at  home,  where  I  can  be  com- 
fortable, and  occupy  myself  as  I  please, 
instead  of  being  forced  to  spend  dreary 
days  in  a  hotel  parlor,  crowded  with 
other  guests  and  full  of  badly  behaved 
children,  or  in  the  restricted  quarters  of 
a  boarding  house  bedroom. 

* 'There  are  many  compensations  for 
spending  one's  vacation  at  home.  A 
woman  can  get  lots  of  pleasure  and  real 
benefit,  if  she  sets  about  it  in  the  right 
way,  prepares  her  house,  eliminates  un- 
necessary work,  takes  as  many  outings 
as  she  can  and  makes  the  most  of  them. 
One  can  have  the  vacation  spirit,  the 
rest,  the  recreation,  even  the  change,  if 
one  lias  to  stay  at  home.  Experience 
has  taught  me  how  to  do  it.  Any  wom- 
an can  learn  and  can  be  happy  and  com- 
fortable during  a  summer  vacation  at 
home,  if  she  tries." 


How  Honest  Are  We? 

By  Alice  Margaret  Ashton 


WOMAN'S  bump  of  honesty  is 
said  to  be  not  so  well  devel- 
oped as  that  of  man.  It  is 
claimed  that  a  woman  does  not  repose 
the  trust  in  her  fellow  woman  that  one 
man  ordinarily  accords  another,  and, 
therefore,  that  an  ingrained  vein  of  dis- 
honesty must  be  a  womanly  trait. 

Whether  or  not  this  is  true  must  re- 
main a  disputed  question.  But,  since 
the  question  is  raised,  it  behooves  us, 
ai  women,  to  look  carefully  to  our  indi- 
vidual honesty.  Little  as  we  like  the 
accusation,  there  is  always  the  possibility 
of  there  being  in  it  a  grain  of  truth. 
"But  dear  me,"  cried  a  nervous  little 
woman  in  much  distress  when  the  sub- 
ject was  brought  up  in  her  presence, 
"does  that  mean  that  we  are  all  liable 
to  start  right  in  some  day  and  take  some- 


one's silver  spoons  or  her  card  basket?" 
Appropriating  other  people's  posses- 
sions is  accorded  a  dishonesty.  Of  a 
multitude  of  possessions,  surely  our  sil- 
ver spoons  and  card  baskets  are  not  the 
most  valuable! 

Time,  to  some  women,  is  a  very  pre- 
cious possession.  Even  the  housekeeper 
who  considers  herself  extremely  busy 
can  hardly  appreciate  the  value  of  an 
hour  to  some  sister  who  is  often  com- 
bining the  duties  of  wage-earner  and 
home-maker.  The  appropriating  of 
other  people's  time  is  a  dishonesty  more 
common  among  women  than  it  should 
be.  When  we  say,  "I  am  coming  to  see 
you  some  afternoon  this  week,"  or 
"You  may  look  for  me  Friday  evening, 
if  nothing  else  comes  up,"  we  are  mak- 
ing an    unnecessary    claim  upon  their 


HOW  HONEST  ARE  WE? 


55 


time.  Doubtless  all  of  us  have  experi- 
enced the  aggravation  of  remaining  at 
home  for  an  expected  visit  which  never 
materialized,  yet  we  thoughtlessly  in- 
flict the  same  injustice  upon  our  friends. 
If  the  visit  is  of  importance,  make  a 
definite  engagement  and  keep  it  or  send 
an  apology  sufficiently  early  to  free  the 
second  person  from  all  obligation.  If 
it  is  of  no  importance,  chance  it  to  luck 
to  find  your  friend  at  home.  It  is  the 
only  honest  way. 

The  woman  who  is  always  late  is 
cheating  her  friends  of  many  pleasures. 
If  they  are  to  accompany  her  to  a  play 
or  a  concert,  she  cheats  them  out  of  the 
first  number.  If  it  is  a  picnic  or  an  ex- 
cursion, she  keeps  a  whole  party  wait- 
ing— ^people  who  have  left  duties  undone 
which  they  would  have  liked  to  take  time 
to  accomplish — while  she  takes  as  much 
of  their  time  as  she  chooses.  She  ap- 
propriates her  hostess*  peace  of  mind, 
and  often  her  reputation  for  serving  a 
good  dinner.  Yet  this  deliberate  woman 
would  be  indignant  at  the  very  sugges- 
tion that  this  might  be  called  dishonest. 

Is  it  quite  honest  to  take  too  personal 
an  interest  in  our  friends'  affairs  unless 
the  information  is  voluntarily  given? 
Isn't  it  cheating  them  of  a  very  precious 
privacy,  which  ought  to  be  the  right  of 
everyone  ? 

Our  judgments  are  often  a  great  and 
uncalled-for  injustice.  We  are  distinct- 
ly enjoined  to  "judge  not,"  and  yet  in 
the  face  of  this  positive  prohibition,  we 
dare  offer  our  puny  judgments  on  the 
conduct  of  our  friends,  not  knowing  the 
circumstances  or  what  is  in  their  hearts. 

The  "best  foot"  is  a  much  maligiied 
member.  In  its  name  are  committed 
many  needless  deceptions  and  even  un- 
kindnesses.  Brave  indeed  is  the  woman 
who  makes  the  best  of  every  circum- 
stance, resolutely  going  forward  with 
the  "best  foot"  to  meet  the  world  cheer- 
fully, carrying  a  message  of  strength  and 
inspiration.  But  how  about  the  striv- 
ings,  the   petty    jealousies,    th^    "white 


fibs?"  "We  were  at  Mrs.  A's  for  sup- 
per Thursday  evening,"  said  a  woman 
to  a  special  friend  of  Mrs.  A's.  And  it 
was  some  weeks  before  Mrs.  B  learned, 
by  chance,  that  the  supper  was  a  public 
one,  given  for  charity.  No  matter  how 
strong  the  temptation,  this  is  a  weakness 
of  which  we  should  strive  never  to  be 
guilty.  So  often  a  little  word,  not  in 
itself  strictly  untruthful,  can  place  us  in 
such  false  positions  with  our  friends; 
and  nothing  else  will  so  soon  destroy 
our  confidence  in  an  associate  as  to  ob- 
serve her  employment  of  these  half- 
deceptions. 

Does  it  seem  possible  that  any  nice 
woman  would  wish  things  for  which  she 
does  not  pay?  "Mrs.  Brown  is  much 
offended  because  I  did  not  invite  her  to 
my  last  party,"  said  a  recent  hostess, 
wearily.  "But  Mrs.  Brown  has  never 
entertained  you,"  answered  her  husband, 
"and  you  have  had  her  here  several 
times."  "I  know.  But  that  doesn't 
seem  to  make  any  difference!" 

Social  intercourse  is  extremely  pleas- 
ant, and  no  one  enjoys  being  "left  out," 
but  it  carries  with  it  obligations  for 
which  we  ought  to  be  willing  to  pay,  if 
we  are  to  enjoy  the  advantages.  If 
household  duties  or  professional  work, 
crowd  out  our  "social  flings,"  we  should 
not  condemn  our  neighbors  as  un- 
friendly, because  they  do  not  continue 
to  call  and  to  invite  us  to  their  teas  and 
dinners.  We  should  expect  attention 
only  in  those  lines  upon  which  we  ex- 
pend our  attention. 

What  is  the  reason  for  these  Httle  dis- 
honesties of  which,  to  be  just,  we  can- 
not often  accuse  our  husbands?  Is  it 
not  more  often  due  to  thoughtlessness 
than  to  any  other  cause?  Just  a  little 
kindly  consideration  for  those  with 
whom  we  come  in  contact  is  the  very 
best  remedy,  just  an  occasional  putting 
of  ourselves  in  the  other  person's  place. 
Since  so  simple  a  remedy  may  be  pro- 
ductive of  such  beautiful  results,  let  us 
-think ! 


HOiyiE 
IDEAS  <&. 
ECONTVnB^ 


Drinking  Water  in  the  Summer 
Camp 

IN  a  good  many  summer  camps,  it  is 
absolutely  necessary  to  boil  all  wa- 
ter which  is  to  be  used  for  drinking. 
That  much  is  easy.  But  often  times 
the  larger  problem  is  to  keep  enough 
cooled,  ready  for  use.  Especially  is 
this  so,  when  the  ice  box  space  is  lim- 
ited. 

We  have  handled  the  question  in 
this  way.  From  the  druggist  we  ob- 
tained three  glass  bottles  which  held 
about  two  gallons  each.  You  know 
the  kind  with  large  mouths  and  glass 
stoppers.  Do  not  get  square  bottles, 
as  they  would  be  much  harder  to  keep 
clean  and  sweet.  A  large  clean  cloth 
is  soaked  in  cold  water  and  wound 
several  times  about  the  bottle.  T^en 
the  water,  which  was  left  standing  in 
the  kettle  in  which  it  was  boiled  until 
partially  cooled,  is  poured  into  the  bot- 
tle and  this  set  into  a  basin  containing 
about  six  inches  of  cold  water.  If 
these  are  placed  in  a  shady  spot,  the 
water  will  soon  become  very  cold. 

The  cloths  and  bottles  must  be 
washed  out  every  day  or  so,  but  the 
whole  seems  very  little  work,  once  the 
process  has  become  part  of  the  morn- 
ing's regular  duties. 

We  have  often  carried  water  in  a 
Mason  fruit  jar,  wound  in  a  wet  cloth, 
when  going  out  for  picnics.  If  the 
cloth  is  kept  damp,  the  water  will  al- 
ways be  cool.  L.  s.  K. 
*     *     * 

The  Value  of  Fruit  Juice 


AN  enterprising  country  woman, 
who  makes  jellies  to  sell,  accom- 
plishes a  great  amount  of  work  in  an 
easy  way  by  bottling  the  juice  of  each 
fruit  in  its  season,  and  then  postpon- 
ing the  jelly  making  until  the  winter 


It  is  usually  the  case  that  the  farm- 
er's wife  is  very  busy  just  at  the  time 
when  strawberries,  raspberries  and 
blackberries  are  ripening.  The  jelly- 
making  would  be  an  additional  task. 

Mrs.  A's  method  of  extracting  fruit 
juices  is  to  heat  the  fruit  in  a  double- 
boiler  or  to  stew  the  fruit  with  a  lit- 
tle water  added;  in  either  case  strain 
the  juice  through  cheesecloth  (in  the 
usual  manner  for  making  jelly).  Then 
the  juice  is  reheated  and  sealed  in 
glass  jars  and  bottles. 

In  the  fall,  when  apples  are  plentiful, 
she  extracts  the  juice  from  apples  in 
the  same  manner  and  adds  berry  juice, 
in  the  proportion  of  half  and  half  of 
each,  then  the  proper  amount  of  sugar 
and  cooks  all  together  to  make  jelly. 

Several  fruits,  such  as  currants, 
gooseberries,  quinces  and  cherries,  are 
so  tart  that  a  much  better  tasting  jelly 
is  secured  when  they  are  combined 
with  apples. 

New  and  delicious  flavors  are  found 
by  combining  different  fruits.  Crab- 
apples  with  pears,  strawberries  with 
peaches,  rhubarb  with  oranges  and 
apples,  are  recommended. 

If  desired,  the  extracted  juices  of 
strawberries,  raspberries  or  blackber- 
ries can  be  used  alone  (without  apple 
juice)  to  make  excellent  jelly.  By  can- 


HOME    IDEAS    AND    ECONOMIES 


67 


ning  the  juice  in  the  early  summer  as 
suggested,  the  jelly  can  be  made  in 
small  quantities  during  the  winter,  and 
the  fresh  jelly  is  specially  delightful. 

Bottled  fruit  juices  can  be  utilized  in 
different  ways.  Apple  and  pear  but- 
ters and  mince  meat  are  improved  by 
the  addition  of  berry  juices. 

In  making  fruit  cake  or  plum  pud- 
ding, half  a  cup  of  rich,  thick  juice 
from  cherries,  apples  or  grapes  will 
give  a  delicious  flavor. 

Fruit  juice  may  be  used  in  any  viand 
where  a  recipe  calls  for  brandy  or 
wine,  and  the  cake  or  pudding  will 
keep  well  and  be  much  nicer  than  if 
alcoholic  preparations  are  used. 

Many  persons  object  to  preserves 
made  from  strawberries,  raspberries 
and  blackberries,  on  account  of  the 
numberless  tiny  seeds.  They  will 
gladly  welcome  the  extracted  juice  of 
such  fruits,  served  in  small  cups  or 
deep  saucers,  as  an  appetizer  for 
breakfast,  or  a  dessert  course  at  din- 
ner. 

Delicious  cooling  drinks  can  be 
made  in  the  summer  time  from  any 
fruit  juice  and  water,  or  lemons  may 
be  used  in  a  tempting  combination. 

Fruit  ices  are  healthful,  economical 
and  very  popular.  Any  family  can 
serve  them  frequently  with  very  little 
trouble,  if  bottled  fruit  juices  are  on 
the  pantry  shelves. 

Blackberry  juice  is  excellent  for 
stomach  troubles. 

Grape  juice  is  the  best  tonic  possi- 
ble for  elderly  people  and  delicate  chil- 
dren. At  the  celebrated  "Grape  Cures" 
of  Europe  each  invalid  drinks  several 
glasses  of  grape  juice  every  day  and 
eats  very  little  solid  food.      n.  f.  m. 

♦       4t       41 

Housekeeping, — ^Wise  and 
Otherwise 

THAT  there  is  economy  in  system 
is  proven  beyond  a  doubt.  In 
glancing  over  the  average  man's  office, 
one  is  impressed    with    the    order    and 


completeness  of  the  working  outfit. 
System  here  is  everything;  it  speaks 
from  the  stack  of  envelopes,  from  the 
blotting  pad,  the  stamp  box,  the  set  of 
rules  attached  to  each  desk,  the  clip 
holding  letters  to  be  answered,  each 
marked  with  a  blue  pencil  for  the  de- 
partment for  which  it  is  intended. 
There  is  no  mental  digression  and  con- 
sequent loss  of  time,  from  having  to 
stop  in  the  thick  of  work  to  look  up  a 
stray  document,  for  within  easy  reach 
is  a  card  index  and  a  cabinet  file.  The 
worker's  thoughts  hold  steadily  to  the 
subject  in  mind  until  finished.  There 
is  no  laying  of  work  aside  for  a  chat 
with  a  fellow  clerk,  a  game  of  cards, 
or  an  afternoon  matinee.  If  such  were 
to  happen,  woe  betide  the  business,  it 
would  soon  hasten  to  the  bow-wows. 

As  in  the  office,  so  it  is  in  every  line 
of  work  in  which  men  are  engaged. 
The  first  requisite  for  perfect  accom- 
plishment is  a  complete  set  of  tools; 
the  second  is  to  have  them  within  easy 
reach.  Once  a  task  is  begun,  it  is  fin- 
ished before  another  one  is  taken  up. 
One  at  a  time  is  the  rule. 

Not  so  with  the  average  woman,  sys- 
tem has  little  place  in  her  vocabulary. 
"Sufficient  unto  the  day  is  the  evil 
thereof"  seems  her  favored  slogan. 
Instead  of  being  systemized  her  en- 
ergy usually  runs  riot  with  resultant 
disorder.  Of  her  working  tools,  one 
may  be  found  here,  another  there,  a 
long  search  ensues  for  a  third,  and 
often  a  poor  substitute  is  used,  instead. 
No  wonder  that  there  are  so  many 
housekeeping  failures,  so  many  ineffi- 
cient houseworkers,  so  many  dishes 
with  savory  promise  in  the  compound- 
ing thereof,  only  to  appear  later  upon 
the  table  unpalatable  messes;  and  not 
only  that,  but  representing  a  loss  of 
time  and  money  as  well.  So  many 
tasks  begun,  then  laid  aside  or  discon- 
tinued altogether,  and  others  taken  up 
instead!  The  average  woman's  distrac- 
tions are  many  and  various. 

*'It  seems  that  I  can  never  accom-' 


58 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


plish  anything,"  complained  a  young 
home-maker.  I  am  upstairs  and  down, 
picking  up  and  turning  over  things,  I 
never  can  find  what  I  am  looking  for; 
and  there's  the  beds  to  make,  dishes  to 
wash,  and  windows  to  clean,  I  never 
know  what  to  do  first. '^ 

She  lacked  a  sy.Uem,  every  woman 
beginning  life  in  her  own  home  should 
take  to  her  heart  an  old  motto :  "Have 
a  place  for  everything  and  keep  every- 
thing in  its  place;"  and  it  is  well  to 
add,  have  a  certain  time  for  every 
household  task,  be  it  washing,  ironing, 
sweeping,  or  baking. 

One  need  not  be  a  system-fiend  to 
effect  a  smooth  continuity  of  the 
household  work,  for  one  is  likely 
many  times  to  be  interrupted  to  bind 
up  a  little  finger,  to  wipe  away  the 
tears,  and  comfort  a  child  as  only  a 
mother  can;  but  one  may  plan  to  dis- 
patch the  work  to  the  best  advantage. 

Have  certain  hours  for  each  daily 
task  and  adhere  to  them.  Take  each 
one  in  succession  and  see  that  it  is 
thoroughly  finished  before  commenc- 
ing the  next  one.  If  the  attic  is  to  be 
cleaned  on  a  certain  day,  clean  the  at- 
tic on  that  day,  and  let  kitchen  and 
cellar  go  until  you  are  through;  clean 
from  the  top  of  the  house  downward, 
not  from  the  bottom  up. 

Have  a  shelf  or  closet,  respectively, 
for  the  table  linen,  bed  linen,  and  wool- 
ens; keep  china,  silver  and  glass,  each 
in  its  alloted  place.  A  basket  is  con- 
venient for  garments  that  need  mend- 
ing. Hat  boxes,  shoe  and  laundry 
bags,  all  lend  their  quota  in  keeping 
system  in  the  ordering  of  the  home. 

Have  the  kitchen  well  arranged, 
with  every  article  in  a  familiar  and 
convenient  place,  so  that  when  a  roast 
is  to  be  prepared  for  the  oven,  a  salad 
or  cake  to  be  made,  no  time  is  lost  in 
collecting  all  the  implements  needed; 
and  take  each  step  of  preparation  in 
the  order  directed,  so  as  to  insure  a 
successful  termination  of  the  under- 
taking. 


Keep  a  family  account  book  and  a 
house  record.  Don't  have  addresses 
here  and  receipts  stuffed  there,  prob- 
ably in  an  old  teapot.  Business  men 
use  up-to-date  filing  systems  in  their 
offices;  use  them  in  the  home  and  be 
quick,  reliable,  and  accurate.  A  bill- 
hook handy  for  receipts,  large  envel- 
opes, for  clippings,  each  labeled  as  to 
contents,  and  a  vertical  letter  file,  kre 
all  worry  saving  devices,  and  go  to- 
ward making  housekeeping  a  work  of 
pleasure,  if  not  "one  glad  sweet  song." 

Keep  a  strict  account  of  all  ex- 
penses, each  under  its  proper  heading ; 
there  is  a  satisfaction  in  seeing  at  a 
moment's  glance  "just  where  the 
money  goes." 

Remember  that  "Order  is  Heaven's 
first  law,"  and  all  these  helps  make  a 
great  whole  in  the  conservation  of 
time  and  force,  which  is  made  a  great 
subject  in  these  days  wherever  wise 
men  and  women  meet  to  discuss  the 
betterment  of  their  sisters,  and  im- 
provements in  the  methods  of  house- 
keeping. M.  c.  K. 

*     *     ♦ 

Toasted  Cocoanut  Cakes  at  a 
Fashionable  Tea-Room 

SOME  pretty  cakes,  seen  recently, 
were  rounds  cut  from  a  sheet  of 
cake  as  thick  as  English  muffins  but 
smaller  in  size  around.  These  were 
frosted  with  white  frosting  and  cov- 
ered well  with  shredded  cocoanut. 
The  top  was  toasted  a  light  brown 
and  garnished  with  a  tiny  mound  of 
grated  pistachio  nuts, — which,  for  the 
cookery  novice  or  for  those  far  from 
city  markets,  it  may  be  explained,  are 
of  a  pretty  light  green  color. 

Rarebit  without  Eggs 

When  eggs  are  scarce  make  a  nice 
rarebit,  without  them.  Heat  the  fine- 
cut  cheese  in  milk  in  a  double-boiler, 
and  thicken  with  a  little  cornstarch; 
in  reality  this  is  a  white  sauce;  season 
well  with  red   and   white  pepper,   ta- 


HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 


59 


basco,  mustard,  a  little  Worcestershire 
sauce  or  whatever  is  most  liked  in  that 
line.    Try  this  and  be  convinced. 

Fniit-and-Nut  Butter 

Apple  butter  at  ten  cents  a  pound, 
and  peanut  butter  at  prices  half  as 
much  again,  serve  very  well  instead  of 
dairy  butter  at  forty  cents  per  pound, 
and  if  cows  become  much  more  scarce 
and  labor  also,  we  may  come  in  time 
to  making  butter  from  the  cocoanut, 
as  do  the  people  of  the  Pacific  islands. 
Not  "cocoa  butter"  so-called,  for  this 
is  a  by-product  of  the  chocolate  tree; 
but  the  cocoanut  we  all  know  so  well, 
purchasable  anywhere.  Grate  the  meat 
of  it  and  cover  with  water.  Skim  off 
the  white  fat  that  rises,  and  use  as 
butter.  It  may  be  churned,  by  shak- 
ing it  in  a  glass  preserve  jar,  or  in 
larger  quantities,  in  churn.  By  many 
it  is  preferred,  as  purely  free  from  dis- 
ease; it  has  been  used  in  some  sanita- 
riums of  the  United  States  by  people 
familiar  with  it  in  the  tropics. 

Vegetable  Suggestions  for  the 

Garden 

The  fine  foreign  parsley  that  is  quite 
unlike  our  parsley,  not  curled  but 
growing  tall  and  slender,  ♦  may  be 
bought  in  Italian  markets  here.  It  is 
also  called  French  parsley.  Sweet 
basil  is  easily  grown  anywhere. 

Chervil  may  be  planted,  at  intervals, 
all  summer  for  seasoning  salads  and 
all  such  things  as  require  savory 
herbs;  it  is  far  too  little  known;  the 
seed  is  not  expensive.  Chard,  too,  is 
a  boon  in  these  days  of  back-yard  gar- 
dening; it  replaces  spinach;  its  mid- 
ribs are  like  asparagus.  When  cold  it 
makes  a  nice  salad. 

Delicious  Spinach 

Prepare,  and  boil  as  usual.  Chop 
very  fine,  after  draining.  To  season 
it,  brown  some  flour  in  chicken  fat,  a 
medium-sized  spoonful  to  a  half-peck 
of  spinach.    When  browned,  add  some 


chicken  stock,  salt,  very  little  pepper, 
or  none,  if  not  admitted  to  the  dietary, 
ginger,  and  a  suspicion  only  of  nut- 
meg, about  twice  across  the  grater,  no 
more,  and  a  little  onion  juice.  Heat 
the  spinach  thoroughly  in  this  sauce 
and  blend  it  well. 

This  comes  from  a  fine  suburban 
housekeeper  of  one  of  the  middle 
states,  whose  guests  always  ask  for 
her  method  of  cooking  spinach. 

A  Philadelphia  housekeeper  always 
uses  a  rich  cream  sauce  with  a  suspi- 
sion  of  nutmeg,  and  the  spinach 
chopped  as  fine  as  possible.  Some  peo- 
ple even  sift  the  tenderest  young  spin- 
ach and  drain  it  perfectly  dry,  so  it  can 
be  pressed  in  a  mound  for  garnishing. 

We  all  know  the  expression,  "Com- 
pany arriving  at  the  eleventh  hour," 
when  the  housekeeper  mingles  her 
greetings  with  thoughts  of  the  larder. 
And  bake-shops  are  not  near  every 
home.  The  following  recipe  for  a  cake 
that  may  be  quickly  made  is  g^ven  by 
a  capable  housekeeper  of  Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Eleventh  Hour  Cake 

One  and  one-quarter  cups  of  flour 
sifted  with  one  teaspoonful  of  bakitig 
powder  and  one-quarter  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  One  cup  of  sugar  mixed  with 
this  well. 

In  a  half-pint  cup  put  some  very  soft 
shortening,  the  size  of  an  egg.  Break 
into  this  two  eggs  and  fill  the  cup  with 
milk.  Flavor  to  taste.  "Dump"  this 
into  the  flour  and  sugar  mixture  and 
"beat  like  mad."  Bake  in  a  buttered 
pan. 

Another  hint  from  the  same  source 
is  to  add  some  stick  cinnamon,  the 
very  best,  thin  and  fragrant,  to  quince 
preserves  while  cooking. 

Lemon,  rind  and  all,  cut  very  fine  or 
grated,  is  also  nice  with  quinces  and 
apricots  when  made  into  preserve  or 
sauce,  etc. 


60 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Something  New  in  Olives 

We  have  not  any  new  kind  of  olives, 
but  a  new  way  of  preparing  them  for 
use,  that  is,  slicing  them  before  they 
are  bottled.  Instead  of  paying  for  a 
lot  of  stones  and  serving  the  olives 
whole,  now  one  may  buy  them  all  cut 
in  rings,  very  pretty  for  garnishing 
dishes,  very  handy  to  help  oneself  to 
instead  of  a  cold,  slippery  oval  object 
sure  to  roll  away  unless  very  securely 
prodded  with  an  olive  fork;  and  it  is 
very  much  more  easily  and  gracefully 
eaten,  since  a  ring  may  be  severed, 
whereas  a  whole  olive  had  to  be  lifted 
to  the  lips  and  nibbled,  and  then  the 
stone  discarded  as  deftly  as  possible. 
It  is  a  wonder  we  have  not  had  stoned 
olives  before,  since  comparatively  few 
have  a  chef  at  hand  to  stone  them 
neatly,  nor  a  cooking  school  teacher  to 
impart  the  information.  To  be  sure, 
stuffed  olives,  the  heart  of  pimentoes 
or  celery,  have  been  fads  of  fashion, 
but  not  everyone  likes  these  combina- 
tions. 

The  dark,  purple-red,  ripe  olives  are 
softer  in  texture  and  much  esteemed 
for  the  table  as  more  easy  of  digestion 
than  the  green;  in  fact,  they  are  given 
freely  to  children,  who  do  not  always 
chew  their  food  properly,  and  to  older 
folk  who  have  not  the  best  of  grind- 
ers with  which  to  divide  the  firm  green 
olives  into  minute  particles. 

A  blessing,  indeed,  in  these  rushing 
days  is  the  sliced  olive,  a  very  handy 
adjunct  to  the  salad  garnishing,  and 
eleventh  hour  entertaining,  whether  a 
mid-day  luncheon  or  a  mid-night  sup- 
per. 

English  Muffins  and  Crumpets  As 
They  Should  Be 

Although  the  cooking  teachers  give 
out  nice  recipes  for  making  these  nice, 
hot  breads,  the  so-called  English  muf- 
fins on  sale  in  our  large  cities  are  usu- 
ally big,  tough,  grey-looking  things. 

"The  Muffin  Man  of  Dniry  Lane" 


must  have  gone  out  of  business  long 
ago;  surely  the  children  who  hear 
about  him,  and  the  parents  who  have 
long  read  about  him,  would  welcome 
him  almost  next  to  Santa  Claus,  were 
he  to  appear  with  some  of  his  really- 
truly  English  muffins,  all  hot  and 
toasted  I 

The  English  muffin  is  cooked  upon 
a  griddle ;  it  is  turned  and  cooked  alike 
on  both  sides;  it  is  not  the  American 
baked  muffin,  high  and  light  with  bak- 
ing powder. 

If  made  of  bread  dough,  it  is  a  muf- 
fin ;  if  made  with  an  tgg  and  sweeten- 
ing and  shortening,  it  is  a  crumpet,  to 
be  very  exact;  just  as  a  doughnut  is 
raised  dough  fried  in  fat,  and  a  cruller 
a  sweet,  rich  dough  fried  in  the  same 
way. 

Muffins  may  be  dropped  upon  a  grid- 
dle, or  confined  there  in  rings  made 
for  the  purpose.  Sometimes,  in  the 
hurry  of  the  American  family  for 
breakfast,  and  the  slowness  of  the 
process  of  cooking  a  supply  on  a  grid- 
dle, part  of  the  raised  batter  is  put  in 
the  usual  muffin  pans  and  baked  in  the 
oven.  It  is  very  nice  thus,  and  sure 
to  be  done  well  in  the  centre.  The 
English  fashion  is,  first,  to  cook  the 
muffin  on  both  sides  and  then  tear  it 
open  with  forks  and  toast  the  center 
well,  before  serving  with  tea. 

Cheese  muffins  are  made  by  using 
this  raised  batter  and  putting  one  or 
more  pieces  of  cheese  in  the  center  of 
each  muffin  before  cooking.  It  is  bet- 
ter to  add  the  cheese  in  this  way  in- 
stead of  stirring  it  in,  since  it  will 
scorch,  if  it  come  next  the  sides  or 
bottom  of  the  tin  when  baking.  These 
raised  cheese  muffins  are  very  nice  for 
a  supper,  on  a  cold  chilly  night,  with 
coiTee,  or  tea  and  apple  sauce. 

Dates  "go"  with  old-fashioned  gra- 
ham muffins  especially  well,  but  they 
are  nice  with  flour  muffins. 

Blueberry  muffins  and  such  hot  cakes 
are  littlie  known  outside  of  New  Eng- 
land. J.  D.  c 


aUERIEJi 


THIS  department  is  for  the  benefit  and  free  use  of  our  subscribere.  Questions  relating 
to  recipes,  and  those  pertaining  to  culinary  science  and  domestic  economics  in  general, 
^i;ill  be  cheerfully  answered  by  the  editor.  Communications  for  this  department  must  reach  us  before 
the  first  of  the  month  preceding  that  in  which  the  answers  are  expected  to  appear.  In  letters  requesting 
answers  by  mail,  please  enclose  addressed  and  stamped  envelope.  For  menus  remit  $1.00.  Address 
queries  to  Janet  M.  Hill,  Editor.  BorroN  Coohmo-School  MAaAflifB.372  Bojdston  St.,  Boston.  Mass. 

Query  2017.— "Recipe  for  Oatmeal  Wafers."      the   marshmallows.      Maple   sugar   will 

Oatmeal  Wafers  make  a  still  better  frosting. 


Mix  half  a  cup  of  rolled  oats,  half  a 
cup  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
and  one- fourth  a  teaspoon ful  of  salt; 
with  two  knives  or  the  tips  of  the  fin- 
gers work  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, then  add  hot  water,  a  few  drops  at 
a  time,  to  mix  to  a  stiff  dough.  Knead 
slightly,  roll  into  a  thin  sheet  and  cut  in 
rounds  or  squares.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  to  a  delicate  amber  shade. 


Query  20ia— "Is  anything  wrong  with  the 
recipe  for  *Nut  Cake  with  Caramel-Marsh- 
mallow  Filling;'  given  in  the  Feb.  1913  nuinber 
of  the  Magazine?  I  was  not  successful  with 
cither  cake  or  frosting." 

Nut  Cake,  Caramel-Marshmallow 

Frosting 

No;  the  recipes  are  just  right  and  give 
a  most  delicious  cake.  Measure  the  but- 
ter carefully.  You  need  the  full  half- 
cup.  Using  bread,  rather  than  pastry, 
flour,  the  quantity  must  be  cut  down 
one-eighth  of  a  cup.  You  say  you  "stir- 
red the  sugar  and  milk  forty  minutes"; 
that  was  a  waste  of  time,  and,  of  course, 
a  waste  of  materials.  Let  the  sugar  and 
thin  cream  (top  of  milk  in  bottle)  stand 
on  the  back  of  the  range,  until  the  sugar 
is  melted,  then  draw  forwards  and  do 
not  touch  it  until  it  has  boiled  gently 
forty  minutes;  then  beat  (not  stir)  in 


Query  2019.— "Recipe  for  Club-Housc  Sand- 
wiches." 

Club-House  Sandwiches 

For  one  service  spread  four  fresh- 
toasted,  triangular  pieces  of  bread  with 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Cover  two  of 
these  with  lettuce  hearts;  on  the  lettuce 
lay  thin  slices  of  cold,  cooked  chicken 
breast,  above  the  chicken  slices  of  crisp, 
hot,  broiled  breakfast  bacon,  then  cover 
with  the  other  triangles  of  toast,  spread 
with  mayonnaise.  Set  these  on  a  plate; 
beside  them  set  two  heart-leaves  of  let- 
tuce, each  containing  a  scant  teaspoonf  ul 
of  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Club-House   Sandwiches, 
Milwaukee  Style 

2  thin  rounds  of 
white  bread 

1  thin  round  of  Gra- 
ham or  rye 
bread 

4  large  oysters, 
broiled  or  fried 

Slices  of  cooked 
chicken  or  turkey 


2  slices  of  crisp 
bacon 

Horseradish 

Lettuce 

4  small   sweet    gher- 
kins 

4  small  radishes 

1  slice  of  lemon 

1  small  tomato 

Sauce  Tartare 


Dip  the  bread  in  beaten  egg  and  saute 
to  a  golden  brown  in  clarified  butter. 
The  oysters  and  bacon  should  be 
''cooked  to  order"  and  hot.     Lay  the 


61 


62 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


first  slice  of  bread  on  a  plate  over  two 
or  three  lettuce  leaves.  Lay  the  oysters 
on  the  bread,  with  a  grating  of  horse- 
radish on  each  oyster,  cover  with  bread ; 
on  this  lay  the  chicken  or  turkey,  cut  in 
thin  slices ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper ; 
put  on  the  bacon  and  cover  with  the 
third  slice  of  bread.  On  top  lay  the  slice 
of  lemon,  cut  square ;  about  this  dispose 
the  pickles  and  radishes.  Serve  the  to- 
mato on  a  lettuce  leaf  at  the  side.  Peel 
the  tohiato,  cut  out  the  hard  center  and 
fill  with  sauce  tartare.  To  make  the 
sauce,  add  chopped  pickles,  capers,  pars- 
ley and  onion  to  mayonnaise. 


Query  2020.— "Recipe  for  Melba  Sauce  to 
serve  with  ice  cream  and  sweet  dishes." 


Raspberry  Sauce  (Melba  Sauce) 

from  Jam 

Mix  half  a  cup,  each,  of  raspberry 
jam  and  boiling  water;  add  two  round- 
ing tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar 
and  let  boil  two  or  three  minutes ;  strain, 
to  remove  the  seeds,  and  when  cold  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  kirschwasser. 

Raspberry  Sauce  from  Camied 
Raspberries 

Drain  the  juice  or  syrup  from  a  can 
of  raspberries  and  reserve  for  sherbet  or 
other  use.  With  a  wooden  pestle  press 
the  pulp  of  the  raspberries  through  a 
sieve  fine  enough  to  hold  back  the  seeds. 
To  a  cup  of  this  rather  thick  pulp  add  a 
scant  three-fourths  a  cup  of  sugar  and 
stir  over  the  fire  until  boiling.  Chill  be- 
fore using. 


» 


Query  2021.— "Recipe  for  tuchered  Figs.' 

I  a  cup  of  stick  cin- 
namon 


7  pounds  of  fruit 
5  pounds  of  sugar 
1  pint  of  vinegar 
1  cup  of  water 


I  a  cup  of  whole 
cloves 


Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar,  vinegar 
and  water;  skim  and  add  the  spices. 
Scald  figs  in  the  syrup  on  three  con- 
secutive mornings ;  on  the  third  morning 
put  the  figs  in  jars,  boil  the  syrup  to  the 
consistency   of   molasses,    and   pour    it 


over  them.  Put  the  spices  into  the  jars 
with  the  fruit.  If  the  figs  have  tough 
skins,  cook  until  tender  in  boiling  water. 


Query  2022.— "Why  does  the  addition  of 
Viscogen  to  thin  cream  occasion  its  whip- 
ping?" 

Why  Viscogen  Helps  in 
Whipping  Cream 

It  thickens  the  cream. 


Query  2023.— "What  is  thfc  trouble  with 
Sunshine  Cake  baked  in  from  twenty  to  forty 
minutes?  The  cake  rises  to  the  top  of  the 
tin  and  when  baked  shrinks  one  half." 

Baking  of  Sunshine  Cake 

Increase  the  length  of  time  of  coddng 
to  fifty  or  sixty  minutes.  Probably  the 
oven  should  be  a  little  hotter  when  the 
cake  is  first  put  in,  as  it  rises  too  much. 


Query  2024.— "Why  does  Rye-meal  Bread 
given  on  page  612  of  the  March  1913  magazine 
fall  when  put  into  the  oven  to  bake?  Which 
is  preferable,  the  recipe  on  page  612  or  the 
one  on  620?" 

Regarding  Rye-Meal  Bread 

Probably  the  dough  was  too  light. 
More  flour  might  be  used  and  it  would 
be  less  liable  to  fall. 

Preference  in  regard  to  the  recipes  is 
simply  a  matter  of  taste. 


Query  2025. — ^"Give  recipes  for  plain  and 
fancy  Omelets  cooked  in  omelet  pan.  Also 
other  uses  for  omelet  pan." 

Omelets 

(From  ^'Practical  Cooking  &  Servin^'^ 

All  omelets  may  be  grouped  under  one 
or  the  other  of  two  classes :  the  French, 
or  the  puffy.  There  are  many  varieties 
and  modifications  of  these  two  classes; 
but  in  reality,  if  these  be  examined  care- 
fully, they  will  be  found  to  belong  to 
the  one  or  the  other  group. 

The  Egg 

In  most  of  the  recipes  given  below  the 
whole  of  the  egg  is  used,  but  by  prefer- 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


enwood 

Gas  Ranges 


Glmwood  Gas  Ranges  are  built  for  ser- 
vice,  and  to  give  the  utmost  satisfaction 
and  economy  to  the  user.  They  are  ac- 
knowledged to  be  the  best  constructed 
and  the  finest  finished  gas  ranges  on  the 
market 

The  Linii^  of  the  Oven  are  made  of 
white  alumaloyd  sheets,  a  new  rust-resist- 
ing metal  which  does  not  scale,  but  keeps 
smooth  and  lasts  with  the  rest  of  the 
range. 

The  Ovens  are  heated  by  two  separate 
burners,  which  are  lighted  from  the  out- 
side by  a  pilot  and  as  each  burner  is  con- 
trolled by  a  separate  gas  valve  it  is  an 
easy  matter  for  the  operator  to  regulate 
the  amount  of  heat  inside  the  oven. 


The  CooKin^  Top  is  supplied  with  five 
burners,  three  ordinary  size,  one  extra 
large  and  one  simmering  burner. 

Popping  Back,  or  flashing  at  the  air-mix- 
er—a most  annoying  fault  with  some  gas 
ranges — has  been  entirely  eliminated  in 
the  construction  of  the  Glenwood. 

As  all  Svpply  Pipes  are  of  extra  size,  the 
range  can  be  operated  where  the  gas  sup- 
ply is  weak,  or  the  pressure  is  tow. 


H  booklat.  m*lM  free,  to 

Weir  Stove  Company,  Taunton,  MaH. 


"Mahe  Coohing  Easy" 


Buy  advertiaed  Goods  —  do  not  accept  subititutes 


64 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


ence  the  number  of  yolks  should  exceed 
that  of  the  whites,  as  an  omelet  more 
tender  and  of  looser  texture  results. 
Thudicum  asserts  that  all  cookery  books, 
up  to  1840,  omit  a  number,  up  to  half, 
of  all  the  whites  and  Kitchiner  says  that 
no  art  can  prevent  an  omelet  being  hard, 
if  too  much  of  the  white  be  left  in  it. 

The  Pan 

The  pan  should  be  thin,  as  quick  cook- 
ing is  of  importance;  it  should  not  be 
large,  as  one  of  the  first  requisites  in  a 
perfect  omelet  is  thickness.  The  great- 
est care  and  skill  are  needed  to  secure 
an  omelet  in  which  the  eggs  are  not 
liquid,  but  barely  set. 

Utensil  for  Serving 

A  spoon  or  fork  is  the  proper  utensil 
for  serving.  If  a  knife  needs  be  used, 
the  omelet  is  a  failure. 

French  Omelet 

To  make  a  French  omelet,  break  the 
eggs  into  a  bowl;  add  as  many  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water  as  there  are  eggs, 
counting  two  yolks  as  a  whole  egg,  and 
for  each  three  eggs,  a  dash  of  pepper 
and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
beat  the  eggs  with  a  spoon,  or  fork,  until 
a  spoonful  can  be  taken  up;  then  strain 
into  another  bowl.  If  a  mild  flavor  of 
garlic  be  agreeable,  rub  the  inside  of  the 
bowl  into  which  the  eggs  are  to  be 
broken  with  a  clove  of  garlic.  Have 
ready,  in  the  cleanest,  smoothest,  and 
thinnest  of  frying-pans,  a  tablespoonful 
of  melted  butter;  into  this  pour  the  egg 
mixture,  set  on  a  hot  part  of  the  range 
for  a  moment,  then,  with  a  thin  knife,  or 
spatula,  separate  the  cooked  portion 
from  the  side  of  the  frying-pan,  and 
gently  rock  the  pan  back  and  forth,  the 
side  next  the  handle  raised  as  the  pan 
is  pushed  forward  and  the  opposite  side 
raised  as  it  is  brought  back,  that  the  un- 
cooked part  may  run  down  next  the  pan. 
When  creamy  throughout,  begin  at  the 
side  of  the  pan  next  the  handle  and  roll 
the  omelet,  letting  the  pan  rest  on  the 


stove  a  moment,  until  the  omelet  is 
browned  slightly,  adding  a  little  butter, 
if  needed,  and  turn  on  to  a  hot  platter. 

Formula  for  a  Three-Egg  Omelet 


2  whole  eggs 

2  yolks  of  eggs 

3  tablespoonfuls  of 
water 


i  teaspoonful  of  salt 
Dash  of  pepper 
1  tablespoonful  of 
butter 


PuflFy  Omelet 

To  make  a  puffy  omelet,  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  until  dry;  beat  the 
yolks  until  light-colored  and  thick;  add 
to  the  yolks  a  tablespoonful  of  water 
for  each  yolk,  and  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  pepper 
for  each  three  yolks ;  mix  together  thor- 
oughly, and  turn  over  the  beaten  whites, 
then  cut  and  pore  the  whites  into  the 
yolk  mixture.  Have  the  pan  buttered 
hot  as  before,  turn  in  the  mixture, 
spreading  it  evenly  over  the  pan.  Let 
stand  for  about  two  minutes,  where 
there  is  a  moderate  heat,  then  set  in  the 
oven  to  cook  the  top  slightly.  Just  as 
soon  as  a  knife — ^thrust  into  the  centre 
of  the  omelet — comes  out  nearly  clean, 
remove  from  the  oven,  cut  across  the 
centre  of  the  top,  at  right  angles  to  the 
handle,  fold  the  part  nearest  the  handle 
over  the  other  part,  and  turn  on  to  a 
hot  platter. 

Either  the  plain  French  omelet,  or 
the  puffy  omelet  may  be  varied  by  the 
use  of  a  filling,  or  a  garnish,  or  both. 
The  filling,  if  fine  chopped,  as  parsley, 
or  other  herbs,  may  be  mixed  with  the 
body  of  the  omelet;  though  by  '^filling' 
we  usually  mean  a  little  of  the  desired 
article  chopped  fine  or  cut  in  small 
cubes,  perhaps  mixed  with  a  sauce, 
sprinkled  on  to  the  surface  of  thfe  omelet 
before  it  is  folded.  When  used  as  a 
garnish  the  article  is  mixed  with  &  sauce 
and  poured  about  the  omelet.  Gre^n,,  or 
canned  peas  in  white  sauce,  mushrooms, 
fresh  or  canned,  macaroni  in  tomato- 
sauce,  oysters  in  cream-sauce,  fine- 
chopped  ham,  of  chicken,  asparagus- 
tips,  and  tomatoes  are  among  the  favor- 
ite fillings  and  garnishes.  , 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Bar  idTcrtiaed  Gooda  —  do  not  accept  snbstittitM 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Omelets  with  a  Starchy 
Foundation 

Oftentimes  an  omelet  is  desired  that 
will  keep  in  good  condition  a  short  in- 
terval after  it  has  been  made.  In  this 
case,  a  thickening  ingredient  is  added 
to  help  hold  up  the  eggs.  In  order  to  be 
either  wholesome,  or  palatable,  this 
foundation  must  be  thoroughly  cooked 
before  the  eggs  are  added.  While  dish- 
es of  this  class  are  called  omelets,  they 
belong  more  properly  to  the  group  of 
pancakes. 

Mrs.  Grant's  Omelet 


1  cup  of  sweet  milk 

2  tablespoon fuls  of 
butter 

2  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour         - » 


i  a  teaspoonful  of 

salt         ' 
Dash  of  pepper 
5  eggs 

2  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter 


With  the  first  five  ingredients  make  a 
white  sauce ;  stir  this  gradually  into  the 
beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  fold  in  the 
whites  <3f  the  eggs,  beaten  dry.  Melt  the 
last  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  the 
omelet  pan,  pour  in  the  mixture  and 
cook  as  a  puffy  omelet.  Fine-chopped 
ham,  chicken,  oysters  parboiled  and  cut 
in  pieces,  mushrooms  cut  in  pieces,  etc., 
etc.,  may  be  added  to  the  sauce  with  the 
yolks  of  eggs. 

Rice  Omelet 


2  tablespoonfuls  of 

butter 
2  eggs 


i  a  teaspoonful  of 

salt 
1  cup  of  warm, 

boiled  rice 


Beat  the  eggs,  and  add  the  salt  and 
rice ;  the  grains  of  rice  should  be  whole 
and  each  held  separately  in  the  egg  mix- 
ture; if  the  rice  be  very  dry,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Cook  as  a  puffy 
omelet. 

Other  Uses  for  Omelet  Pan 

To  make  an  omelet,  especially  a 
French  omelet,  successfully,  the  surface 
of  the  pan  must  be  kept  in  an  exceed- 
ingly smooth  condition,  and  it  is  best 
to  use  the  pan  for  no  other  purpose. 
Rub  over  with  salt  before  using. 


Query  2Q26.— "Recipe  for  Bar-lc-Duc." 

Bar-le-Duc 

Take  selected  gooseberries  or  currants 
of  large  size,  one  by  one,  and  with  tiny 
eftibroidery  scissors  carefully  cut  the 
skin  on  one  side,  making  a  slit  of  per- 
haps one-fourth  an  inch.  Through  this, 
with  a  sharp  needle,  remove  the  seeds, 
one  at  a  time,  to  preserve  the  shape  of 
the  fruit.  Take  the  weight  of  the  fruit 
in  strained  honey,  and,  when  hot,  add 
the  prepared  fruit.  Let  simmer  three  or 
four  minutes.  Carefully  skim  out  the 
fruit.  Reduce  the  syrup,  at  a  gentle 
simmer,  to  the  desired  consistency. 
Pour  over  the  fruit.    Then  store  as  jelly. 


Query  2027.— "How  keep  Parsley  fresh  af- 
ter coming  from  market" 

Keeping  Parsley 

Keep  in  a  dish  of  water  just  as  cut 
flowers  are  kept.  Cut  off  the  stems 
after  a  few  days.  Renew  the  water 
daily. 


Query  2028.— "How  to  coddle  an  egg. 

Coddled  Eggs   (Pattee) 


1  saltspoon  of  salt 
Speck  of  pepper 


1  egg 

i  a  cup  of  milk 

1  teaspoonful  of  but-  I 
ter  I 

Beat  egg  in  top  of  double  boiler  until 
light;  add  milk  and  the  rest  of  the  in- 
gredients and  stir  over  boiling  water  un- 
til it  thickens;  allow  it  to  stand  a  few 
minutes  after  starting  to  set.  Serve  on 
toast  or  hot  rice. 


Query  2029. — "How  do  you  make  Coffee 
Extract  or  infusion  for  Mocha  Filling  or 
Frosting?" 

Coffee  Extrax!t 

Mix  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  ground 
coffee  with  a  very  small  portion  of  egg 
white  and  enough  cold  water  to  moisten. 
Add  three- fourths  a  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  boil  as  coffee.  Too  much 
white  of  egg  will  hinder  extraction  of 
the  coffee  flavor. 


66 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Bnjr  advertiied  Goods  — do  not  accept  subititntea 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING^SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Caramel  for  Coloring 


Cook  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  stirring  con- 
stantly, over  a  quick  fire  until  it  liqui- 
fies; add  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water  and 
let  boil  until  the  caramel  is  dissolved. 
Store  in  a  glass  jar. 


QuERV  2035.— "How  cook  Endive  for 
greens;  and  is  it  necessary  to  blanch  it  be- 
fore cooking?" 

Cooking  Endive 
The  flavor  will  be   more  delicate,  if 
the  endive  be  blanched  before  cooking. 
Cook  in  boiling  water  as  other  greens. 


Sardine  Mayonnaise 
To  one  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing, 
made  in  the  usual  manner,  beat  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sardine  paste  (sar- 
dines pressed  through  a  sieve)  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  pimento  puree  (pim- 
entos pressed  through  sieve).  This 
dressing  is  also  good  with  hard-cooked 


QuEitv  2032. — "Can  you  give  information  of 
literature  on  the  cost  and  maintenance  of 
Tea-rooms  and  the  establishment  of  them? 
Also  a  book  on  Cooking  for  Tea-rooms?" 

Literature  on  Running 
Tea-Rooms 
We  know  of  no  literature  on  the  cost 
and  maintenance  of  tea-rooms. 

A  modem,  reliable  cook-book  will  give 
recipes  suitable  for  cooking  at  tea- 
rooms. 


QuEPY  2033.— "When  you  use  broth  of 
chicken  tor  soup  please  mention  ways  of  us- 
ing the  chicken  other  than  for  chicken  salad." 

Uses  for  Cooked  Chicken 
The    chicken    may    be    used    in    cro- 
quettes,   souffle,    creamed,    in    omelets, 
molded  in   aspic,  hot  "and  cold  chicken 
^ndwiches,  and  timbales. 


Query  2034.- 
Asparagus     so 

Asparagus  Cooked,  Yet  Firm 

We   cook   the   asparagus,    tied    in    a 

bunch,  in  boiling  water,  with  the  tips  out 

of  water.     Remove  as  soon  as  the  tips 

are  tender. 


QuESY  2036.— "Do  Pistachio  Nut  Meats 
need  any  special  preparation  or  are  they  used 
just  as  they  come  from  the  shell?" 

To  Prepare  Pistachio  Nuts 
for  Use 
Pistachio  nuts  should  be  blanched  be- 
fore being  used.  Cover  with  boiling 
water,  let  boil  two  or  three  minutes, 
drain,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  push 
off  the  skins. 


QuESY  2037.— "In  recipe  for  Dried  Lima 
Beans,  Creole,  could  strips  of  pimento  be 
substituted  for  the  green  pepper,  and  would 
the  beans  be  good  without  either?  Is  it  not 
better  to  parboil  Lima  '.beans  the  same  as  one 
does  other  beans?" 

Regarding  Lima  Beans  Creole 

Strips  of  pimento  could  be  substi- 
tuted for  green  peppers,  and  the  beans 
are  always  extremely  good  without 
either. 

Lima  beans  may  be  parboiled  just  the 
same  as  other  beans. 


remove  dust  and  Kcrma.  Use  cheese-cloOi 
dampened  with  tepid  water  to  which  a  Lttle 
PUtfa  Chlorides,  the  odorless  disinfectant, 
has  been  added.  Wring  out  till  dry  eo  that 
it  will  not  atreak  the  wood  work,  etc 


Buy. advertised  good*— do  not  accept  nibstitutcs 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


THE  COCA-COLA  COMPANY,  Atlanta,  ga. 
Buy  advertised  Goods  — do  not  accept  substitutes 


New  Books 


Human  Foods.  By  Makry  Shyder. 
Cloth.  Price,  $1.25  net.  New  York: 
The  MacMillan  Co. 

The  book  aims  to  present  some  of  the 
principles  of  human  nutrition  along  with 
a  study  of  the  more  common  articles  of 
food.  It  is  believed  that  a  better  under- 
standing of  the  subject  of  nutrition  will 
suggest  ways  in  which  foods  may  be  se- 
lected and  utilized  more  intelligently,  re- 
sulting not  only  in  pecuniary  saving,  but 
also  in  greater  efficiency  of  physical  and 
mental  effort. 

Prominence  is  given  in  this  work  to 
those  foods,  as  flour,  bread,  cereals,  veg- 
etables, meats,  milk,  dairy  products,  and 
fruits,  that  are  most  extensively  used  in 
the  dietary,  and  to  some  of  the  physical, 
chemical,  and  bacteriological  changes 
affecting  digestibility  and  nutritive  value 
which  take  place  during  their  prepara- 


tion for  the  table.  Dietary  studies,  com- 
parative cost  and  value  of  foods,  ra- 
tional feeding  of  men,  and  experiments 
and  laboratory  practice  form  features  of 
the  work.  Some  closely  related  topics, 
largely  of  a  sanitary  nature,  as  the  effect 
upon  food  of  household  sanitation  and 
storage,  are  also  briefly  discussed.  Ref- 
erences are  given  in  case  more  extended 
information  is  desired  on  some  of  the 
subjects  treated.  While  this  book  was 
prepared  mainly  for  students  who  have 
taken  a  course  in  general  chemistry,  it 
has  been  the  intention  to  present  the  top- 
ics in  such  a  way  as  to  be  understood  by 
the  layman  also. 

To  those  who  wish  to  make  somewhat 
of  a  scientific  study  of  foods  the  l>ook 
furnishes  an  excellent  guide  and  hand- 
book. It  is  especially  adapted  for  use  in 
schools  and  institutions  where  industrial 
subjects  are  taught.  It  is  a  text-book, 
and  yet  the  general  reader  can  acquire 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Bnr  adrcrtiacd  Good!  —  do  not  tccept  rabfftitatct 
71 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


ory  and  practice.  While  there  is  a  cen- 
tral theme,  the  book  rambles  over  a  vast, 
amount  of  ground,  from  a  discussion  of 
the  adulterated  food  frauds  which  are 
now  being  fairly  well  known  about  in 
America  to  a  scathing  protest  against 
ungastronomic  America  and  prophecies 
in  regard  to  a  better  future  for  the 
nation. 

Mr.  Finck  calls  to  mind  the  old  Puri- 
tan theory  that  it  was  a  wicked  indulg- 
ence to  enjoy  one's  food,  and  the  story 
of  Walter  Scott's  father  and  his  filling 
the  boy's  soup  with  hot  water  because 
the  boy  had  expressed  enjoyment  of  the 
meal.  He  lays  stress  on  the  fact  that 
enjoyment  in  food  aids  to  its  digestion, 
and  that  food  in  which  there  is  no  pleas- 
ure lies  like  a  heavy  load  upon  the  stom- 
ach. A  cultivation  of  the  sense  of  smell 
is  seriously  recommended,  because  so 
much  of  our  pleasure  in  eating  is  the  re- 
sult of  our  sense  of  smell.  He  goes  into 
an  ecstacy  of  description  in  regard  to 
French  soups  and  sauces,  and  one  won- 
ders that  there  can  be  so  much  delight 
in  the  world  as  he  finds  in  the  mere  re- 
membrance of  the  foreign  dishes  he  has 
eaten. 

He  has  studied  not  only  French  foods 
in  result,  but  has  explored  the  subject 
of  raising  and  preparing  the  foods.  In 
the  question  of  the  United  States,  he 
prophesies  that  the  high  cost  of  beef  and 
mutton  will  never  go  down  again,  but 
that  America  must  take  to  the  raising  of 
poultry  to  form  the  staple  of  diet.  "Food 
and  Flavor"  is  not  written  merely  for 
housewives,  but  can  be  enjoyed  by  men 
and  women  throughout  the  length  and 
breadth  of  the  land." 

After  reading  this  book  one  ought  to 
know  more  about  what  constitutes  real 
health  and  enjoyment  in  life. 

Divorcing    Lady    Nic otitic.     By    Henby 

Beach  Needham.   Cloth.   Price  .33 

net.  Chicago :  Forbes  and  Company. 

This  booklet  gives  a  very  short  and 

pleasing  account  of  how  one  inveterate 

smoker  got  the  upper  hand  of  the  habit 

and  quit  smoking.     He  says  this  expen- 


Buy  advcrtited  goodi — do  not  accept  lubititutes 
72' 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Try  this 

brsuid  new  recipe 

by  Mrs.  Rorer 

Many  of  the  plainest,  simplest  and  most 
wholesome  every -day  dishes  are  greatly  improved 
by  the  use  of  Mcllhenny's  Tabasco  Sauce  as  a 
seasoning  instead  of  cayenne  or  black  pepper. 

"  Mcllhenny's "  gives  tone  and  delicious 
piquancy  not  to  be  obtained  in  any  other 
manner  to  dishes  that  have  become  flat  and 
tasteless  to  the  average  palate  because  of  con- 
tinued and  constant  use. 

You'll  recoenize  its  wonderful  flavorinc:  and 


Bnr  sdvertiicd  Goo4i^4o  not  accept  nbfUtatct 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


ence  of  his  isn't  intended  as  a  message 
to  Garcia.  But  if  one  really  cares  to  go 
to  the  bottom  of  the  want  column, 
searching  for  advice,  here  it  is.  "Stop 
smoking  out  of  doors  before  you  give 
up  the  use  of  tobacco  indoors,  then  you 
can  run  out  of  the  house  to  escape  the 
importunities  of  Lady  Nicotine. 

"Further,  don't  try  to  'taper  off;'  it 
will  not  work,  nine  times  out  of  ten.  It's 
easier  to  refuse  the  first  cigar  than  it  is 
to  decline  the  second  cigar  t" 

"This  is  the  only  thing  which  annoys 
me  about  tobacco-users  today — they 
seem  to  think  that  I  quit  merely  to  get 
a  new  lease  on  life.    Stuff  and  nonsense ! 

It  is  not  a  matter  of  longevity.  It's 
really  living  while  you  live.  Insomnia 
isn't  fun ;  stomach  trouble  isn't  fun ;  ner- 
vousness isn't  fun.  Good  legs,  sound 
wind,  sound  heart — you  would  not  buy 
a  horse  without  them.  Cut  out  tobacco 
and  you  have  A  mortgage  -  on  them. 
There's  joy  in  a  beautiful  spring  morn- 
ing, with  the  sun  shining  and  the  birds 
singing — provided  you  don't  wake  up 
with  your  mouth  tasting  like  a  kitchen 
sink. 

I  wake  up  clear-headed  and  with  the 
energy  to  kick  the  footboard  off  the  bed. 
My  food  is  more  palatable,  though  we 
haven't  a  higher-priced  cook.  I  don't 
have  to  rely  on  *  cigar  to  lift  me  up  to 
concert  pitch.  My  judgment,  like  my 
head,  is  clearer:  Before  I  quit  smoking 
I  was  postponing  the  consideration  of 
problems.  Now  I  have  decision.  I 
tackle  things  when  they  come  up  and 
settle  them.  I  have  at  least  three  hours 
more  a  day  in  which  to  accomplish  some- 
thing worth  while.  I  am  not  saving 
money  by  the  swear-off — that's  a  fallacy. 
What  I  spent  on  tobacco  goes  for'  some- 
thing else.  My  wife  has  more  expensive 
hats  and  my  neckties  are  of  better 
quality." 

Women  as  World  Builders.  By  Floyd 
Dell.  Cloth.  Price  ,7?.  Chicago: 
Forbes  and  Company; 


iUtX'AdveitiBft^t^opili  — do  not  accent  substitutod 


AfiVERTISEMENTS 


BajTMlvenlVN- Goods  —  do- not  accept  tnbatitutea 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Order  Flavoring 
Extracts    By    Name 

wmj  to  cot  ont  the  dement  of 
tuck  and  be  lur*  of  remits, 
nere  are  u  inaiif  ^TBdM  of 
flkToring  extncti  as  there  are 
manD&ctaren.  They  all  look 
alike,  but  yon  can  safely 
judge  them  by  the  repntation 
of  the  maker.  , 


laav  &  roor'a  TUtvottrnt 
iota  b«ar  a  time-hoikaed 
uam  that  bM  been  a  tnanntai 
et  qnaUtr  to  t«*  lenoatloiia  bI 
Kcw  Bn^aiid  bouewlTca. 

Ob  aceoont  of  thck'  pnHtr  »>d 
■bcnrUi  ther  are  tbe  mott  aco- 


SnCKNEY  &  POOR  SPICE  CO. 

184  State  St.,  Boston 

f^     TBB   NATIONAL 
y     MUSTAKD    POT 


JUL 


BANAN 
NUTRO 

KING  OF  SUBSTITUTES 
FOR  COFFEE 

PURE,  RICH  AND  HEALTHFUL 


MADE  FROM  SELECTED  BANANAS  CROVH  BT 

THE  UNITED  FRUIT  COMPANY 


I.  should  not  ) 

n  aiad  rva  a  fnll-cln 

BANANA  BISCUITS 

Made  from  Banana  Flour 

Are  ■  Perfect  Health  Food 

PANAMA  BANANA  FOOD  CO. 

192  FROfT  ST,  NEW  YORK 


Buy  advertised  goods— do 


Here  we  have  a  man's  view  of  the 
so-called  woman's  movement,  entitled 
"Studies  in  Modern  Feminism."  Opin- 
ions are  of  little  worth;  there  are  too 
many  of  them.  Facts  are  facts  and  con- 
ditions are  conditions — matters  to  be 
faced  and  contended  with.  It  would 
seem  that  the  conditions  of  life  today, 
especially  to  many  women  in  England, 
are  not  satisfactory.  In  practice  men 
have  become  more  or  less  emancipated 
from  the  superstitions  and  traditions  of 
the  past.  At  last,  women  are  revolting 
from  the  same  conditions  and  the  men. 
in  their  stupidity,  do  not  seem  to  realize 
and  appreciate  the  situation.  However. 
it  is  only  a  matter  of  time.  Women  will 
get  what  they  want,  provided  enough  of 
them  can  agree  on  just  what  they  do 
want.  We  believe  in  gradual  advance- 
ment by  dint  of  thought  and  experience, 
that  is,  in  the  reform  of  education. 

The  writer  of  this  little  volume  takes 
as  types  or  leaders  in  the  feminist  move- 
ment today,  Charlotte  Perkins  Gilman, 
Emeline  Pankhurst  and  Jane  Addams. 
Olive  Schreiner  and  Isadora  Duncan, 
Beatrice  Webb  and  Emma  Goldman. 
Margaret  Dreier  Robins,  Ellen  Key,  and 
Dora  Marsden,  and  briefly  discusses  the 
conception  of  life  and  woman's  place 
therein  as  each  has  proclaimed  the  same. 

The  chapters  are  not  uninteresting  and 
may  be  instructive  to  some,  inasmuch  as 
they  give  sketches  of  the  social  doctrines 
advocated  by  well-known  women  and 
writers.  The  book  may  provoke  thought 
and  further  reading,  which  is  the  desir- 
able feature  of  any  book, 

A  Table  for  Two.     By  Eu)ene  Davis, 

Cloth.  Price,  $1.00.  Chicago:  Forbes 

&  Company. 

This  is  a  well-classified  list  of  recipes 

of  good  things  to  eat.     They  are  short 

and  simple  and  readily  examined.     The 

author  does  not  claim  that  they  are  new. 

She,  also,  seems  to  imply  that  tfie  cook 

or  housewife  must  have  some  elementary 

knowledge,  at  least,  of  the  processes  of 


t  accept  subsunitcs 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


"The  Perfection  of  Olive  Oil." 

RAE'S 

LUCCA 


OIL 


In  Tuscany,  which  is  justly  called  the  "Garden  of 
Italy,"  the  Very  Finest  OHve  Oil  for  eating  purposes  is 
made,  and  is  generally  known  and  described  in  commerce 
as  Lucca  Oil;  it  cannot  be  equalled  much  less  surpassed, 
by  anything  produced  in  the  rest  of  Italy  or  France." 

S.  Rae  &  Co,  of  Leghorn,  Guarantee  their  Finest 
Sublime  Lucca  Oil  to  be  absolutely  pure  Olive  Oil  of 
Superlative  Qutdity:  —  the  produce  of  Tuscan  Olive 
Yards  only. 


SOLD  IN  BOTTLES  AND  TINS  OF  VARIOUS 
SIZES  BY  FIRST-CLASS  GROCERS 


An    Illustrated   Pamphlet 
"The  Olive  in  Tuscany" 

will  be  mailed  you  on  request 


JAMES  A.  HAYES  &  CO. 

Aimnt*  and  Importara 

9-U  Commercial  Street,  Boston 


Buy  kdTcrtiied  Goods  —  do  not  uccpt  mbatitntei 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


cooking.  It  is  a  liandy  volume  and  the 
housewife  needs  a  whole  collection  of 
handy  volumes. 


MUTTON  AND  ITS  VALUE  IN 
THE  DIET 

ANEW  Government  cook  book,  giv- 
ing more  than  eighty  receipts  for 
cooking  mutton,  and  telling  of  the  edible 
qualities  and  nutritive  values  of  this 
meat,  has  just  been  issued  by  the  De- 
partment of  Agriculture. 

"Judged  by  its  composition,  palatabil- 
ity,  wholesomeness,  digestibility,  relative 
cost,  and  the  number  of  ways  in  which 
it  can  be  prepared  for  the  home  table, 
mutton  is  an  important  food-stuff,  which 
is  well  worth  the  attention  of  the  house- 
keeper who  wishes  to  provide  her  family 
with  an  attractive  and  palatable  diet  at 
a  reasonable  cost,"  the  bulletin  declares. 

Mutton,  it  declares,  has  always  been  a 
popular  food  in  the  Orient  and  among 
the  Western  nations.  The  ease  with 
which  the  sheep  is  raised  and  the  fact 
that  its  flesh  is  not,  like  some  other 
meats,  excluded  on  religious  grounds 
from  the  dietary  of  any  large  group  of 
people,  combine  with  its  palatibility  to 
bring  it  into  widespread  favor. 

The  terms  "lamb"  and  "mutton"  are 
somewhat  loosely  used  to  designate  the 
meat  obtained  from  the  younger  and 
older  animals. 

"The  general  belief  that  mutton  and 
lamb  are  wholesome  has  been  strength- 
ened recently  by  such  work  as  that  of 
the  Department  of  Agriculture,  whose 
reports  of  meat  inspection  show  that  it 
has  been  necessary  to  reject  relatively 
few  mutton  carcasses  as  unfit  for  food, 
and  that  the  sheep  is  particularly  free 
from  diseases  which  make  meat  desir- 
able. 

"Pound  for  pound,  mutton  has  a 
larger  amount  of  tissue-forming  sub- 
stances and  a  higher  energy  value  than 
lamb. 

"Mutton  and  lamb  are  commonly  be- 
lieved to  digest  readily  without  causing 
disturbance,  and  both  experience  and  the 


Bh7  tdnitiMd  (ood»~-4o  not  aecept  tutwdtutet 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING^SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


N929  CANDLESTICK 
Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accfpt  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


as^^.V-*»-gVCSCTKia 


The 

Dresdng  Makes 
or  Mars  the  Salad 

Now  is  ^e  season  of 

delicioua  saladB.  A  aalad 
fit  for  a  king  can  b«  eaaly 
made  vritb  a  single  vegeta- 
ble, OT  a  wmple  combina- 
tion of  vegetables. 

Lettuce,  cucumban.  to* 
maloea,  cablwce,  onion*,  becM, 
eD<]i  ve,  ccleiY— CBck  and  bU — yield 
a  more  •ppdizini  flavor  when 
•BTved  witb  Yacht  Cub  Salad 
Dracuns-  It  combinca  Btceediiis- 
ly  well  widi  fruita,  too. 

This  luperbdreadns  give*  to  lob- 
■Wr.ihrlmp.uImon.urdlDa,  chlckan 
oi  iwkar  taladi  ■  Uklns  tana. 

SAL^D  DRESSING  | 

Alwayi  freili  and  delicate  i 
abMlutclr  no  Bat  D 


results  of  scientific  investigation  seem  to 
bear  out  this  belief.  To  this  may  be  as- 
cribed the  common  use  of  mutton  and 
lamb  in  invalid  dietetics  as  well  as  in 
the  daily  fare." 

The  bulletin  gives  the  relative  econ- 
omy in  the  use  of  mutton,  and  declares 
that  if  the  flavor  is  not  found  palatable, 
there  are  many  ways  to  overcome  it. 
These  methods  are  clearly  explained, 
showing  how  the  ancients  prepared 
sauces  that  destroyed  the  mutton  flavor. 
Housewives  are  advised  to  buy  it  in 
quantity  for  economy's  sake,  and  they 
are  instructed  in  methods  of  cutting,  and 
the  value  of  cuts. 

All  different  methods  of  cooking  and 
preparing  are  explained  in  detail,  not 
only  from  the  point  of  palatability,  but 
with  consideration  to  digestibility  and 
full  food  value.  g.  p.  h. 


Raisin  Bread 


1  of  a  cup  of  sugar 
4  tablespoonfuls  of 

lard  or  butter 
}  of  a  cup  of  raisins 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt 


1  cake  of  yeast 
I  cup  of  lukewarm 

1  cup  of  milk,  scald- 
ed and  cooled 
6  cups  of  sifted  flour 

Dissolve  yeast  and  one  tablespoonfu! 
sugar  in  lukewarm  liquid,  add  two  cups 
of  flour,  the  lard  or  butter  and  sugar 
well-creamed,  and  beat  until  smooth. 
Cover  and  set  aside  to  rise  in  a  warm 
place,  free  from  draft,  until  light— about 
one  and  one-half  hours.  When  well- 
risen,  add  raisins  well-floured,  the  rest 
of  the  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  and 
lastly  the  salt.  Knead  lightly.  Place  in 
a  well-greased  bowl,  cover  and  let  rise 
again  until  double  in  bulk — about  one 
and  one-half  hours.  Mold  into  loaves, 
fill  well-greased  pans  half  full,  cover  and 
let  rise  until  light — about  one  hour. 
Glaze  with  egg  diluted  with  water,  and 
bake  forty-five  minutes. 


AH  Baba  says  that  he  is  much  in  favor 
of  two  meals  a  day,  since  most  family 
quarrels  begin  at  the  table.  AH  figures  it 
out  that  two  meals  a  day  will  reduce  the 
scraps  thirly-three  and  one-third  per 
cent. 


■'i]r  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


DON'T  GET  ALONG 
WITHOUT 

MAPLEINE 

(Tat  Fuven  de  luxz] 

—  It  flavors  wklto   muimr 


MAKE  IT  BIOHT 

arocsn  hU  Uaplcine  3Sd 
(-oi.  bottle  <ln  Cui4da  »<>c). 
If  thcT  cannot  fopplr  rou. 
write  Dept.  R. 

CRESCENT  MFG.  CO.,  Saattle,  Wash. 

vvuiiE  COOK  tou  son  FOR  ic  nup 


.SONO  POEMS  wiiiTrn 

AT  hnndndi  ol  VTrUI  I  LI/ 

ODtmndD.     Anwptkncc  JUEWktAodt   tf 
^TkllkbLa.    LATSfl  booh  PBEB, 
loUaDALBCO.,D<pt,m  WHblnstOD.D.  C. 


Cranberry  Sauce  from  Evapor- 
ated Cranberries 
Soak  the  contents  of  a  package  of 
evaporated  cranberries  in  two  cups  and 
a  half  of  cold  water  over  night,  then 
without  draining  off  the  water  boil  fif- 
teen minutes.  Press  the  pulp  through  a 
sieve,  stir  in  three-fourths  a  cup  of 
sugar  and  turn  into  a  dish. 


As  Mark  Twain  Looked  at 
Himself 

Once  in  the  course  of  a  conversation, 
I  had  with  him  in  Be,rmuda,  says  Mr. 
Paine,  not  long  before  the  end,  Mark 
forgot  a  word  and  denounced  his  poor 
memory:  "I'll  forget  the  Lord's  middle 
name  some  time,"  he  d roily  declared, 
"right  in  the  midst  of  a  storm,  when  I 
need  all  the  help  I  can  get." 

"When  I  was  young  I  could  remember 
anything,  whether  it  happened  or  not ; 
but  I  am  getting  old,  and  soon  I  shall 
remember  only  the  latter." 

"I  have  tried  to  do  good  in  this  world, 
and  it  is  marvelous  in  how  many  differ- 
ent ways  I  have  done  good,  and  it  is 
comforting  to  reflect.  Now,  there's  H. 
H,  Refers — just  out  of  the  affection  I 
bear  that  man,  many  a  time  I  have  given 
him  points  in  finance  that  he  never 
thought  of — and  if  he  could  lay  aside 
envy,  prejudice  and  superstition,  and 
utilize  those  ideas  in  his  business,  it 
would  make  a  difference  in  his  bank- 
account." 

"When  the  Czar  of  Russia  proposed 
the  disarmament  of  the  nations,  the  late 
William  T.  Stead  wrote  for  Mark 
Twain's  opinion.  He  replied:  'The  Czar 
is  ready  to  disarm.  I  am  ready  to  dis- 
arm. Collect  the  others ;  it  should  not 
be  much  of  a  task  now.' " 


Buy  advertijcil  Goodi  —  do  not  ucept  ■nbatituto 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  mbititutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


M  Saeeessfal  Hostess 

can  praaent  new  dliliM  to  her  gaeats,  wbea 
•he  fcnoira  of  the  cDdleaa  varle^  of  dalntiea 
made  with 

Knox  Gelatine 

Try  Marahmanoat  Crmam 

W  enveknie  faoz  SiiarkUni  Cetatliw 
W  cup  a>ld  mlcr  1  cup  Rnaulatnl  ninr 

)i  cup  bolUni  water  I  teaipooa  vuIUa 

while*  of  4  eu>  1  icupooD  laaoa  cRiact 

Soak  aelitUie  in  ocM  water  5  idIhuIm;  add  boUlns 
mur  and  plan  over  tea  kettle  until  tiioiouililv  dlt- 
a>tv«d.  Cool,  but  do  not  chill.  Stir  (ugar  in  dla- 
•oived  BclaiiDr.  Beat  obltea  of  efsa  very  liglil.uid 
to  tbe  CAB*  add  gelatine  and  lUEara  few  ipoonfulaat 
atime.iieatlagaHiitantly.  tXvldeln  2  parti.anri  to 
I  part  add  pink  color  and  Ravoi  witli  vanilla,  about 
I  leupoonfui.  To  the  wblle  part  add  1  teupoonlul 

, . .  ....J      .-       . JJ._^        p,,;^         „.... 


9  the 


.    Mold  In  layeri 


1  the 


THE  KNOX  REOPE  BOOK  coDlabu  choice  redpea 
for  DeM«rts,  Saladi.  Candlei.  jelllei.  Puddlngi,  Ice 
CRam.Sherbeti.eCc.     Sent  FREE  for  your  grocer'a 

CHAHLES  B.  KNOX  CO.,7  Kioi  An.,  Jotiston,  N.V. 


NEW 

Individual  Initial  Jelly  Moulds 

Serve  Eggt,  Fkh  and  Meat*  in  Aqnc, 
Coffee  and  Fniil  Jelly,  Pudding  and 
other  deveils  with  your  initial  letter 
raiaed  on  the  top.  Latest  and  daintieit 
Dovd^  (or  the  up-to-date  hoitess. 

Soine  very  attractive  reiuiti  can  be  v 

obtained  by  running  the  ring  and  initial 
in  one  ccJor,  aDovmg  it  to  cool,  and 
iHonid  then  filling  the  mould  with  jelly  of         iw,  ahowi  the  wi,  tw«d  fton 
(op  Bide  down)       anottief  color  which  thould  be  m  a  the  mould 

liquid  ttate,  but  free  from  all  warmth. 
To  remove  jdly  take  a  needle  and  run  it  around  iniide  of  mould,  then  immerse  b  warm  wata ; 
ielly  will  then  come  out  in  perfect  condition. 

Be  the  first  in  your  town  to  have  these.     You  cannot  purchaie  them  at  the  ttore*. 
Read  our  offer  carefully.     You  can  eaiily  <^tain   a  new  subscription  amtxig   your  frieodt. 
Almost  every  hoiuekeeper  who  tees  the  Magazine  wants  to  subscribe. 

Our    Offer:    To  any  FRESEN-^  .ubKrlber 


end  us  ONE  NEW  YEARLY  SUBSCRIPTtON  at  tl.W 


Address  THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE.  Boston,  Mass. 


Buy  advertinett  Good*  —  do  not  accept  subatitutrs 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


THE    ONLY    GENUINE 

FRENCH  SARDINES 

In  the  New  SANITARY  TINS 

Are  pscked  by 
EtabbncnKnti  Larientak-Lorienl,  France 
PERFECT  FISH  IN  PURE  OU\^  OIL 
If  your  grocer  doe*  not  keep  them  pleoie 

lejahim  to 
Meyer  &  Laaife.  Newr  York 

Sole  Agoata  for  (be  Ualtad  Stataa 


MAGIC  COVER 

HmIc  Conr  fur  Putrr  Boanl  and  RoltlDC  nn;  chamiekHy 
bektad  mod  Imlanle:  recomiBaiidad  br  ludinc  tc«clMno( 
cooklac.    Bt  nuil,  toe. 

B.  F.  HACY 

hnM%  X  F.  &  Mim  A  M.  Bi  MmI  UMm  Hn  h  In  1^^ 
410  BojrUton  Sfraal.  Boston,  Haoo. 


Free  Use  in  Your  Home 


Summer  School  of  Cookery 

AND  VACATION   OUTING   COMBINED 


mwWitoleaniaDiiiathjuof  o. „. . . 

■•^.•u». Id elua  work. oral  ths  bomc  table,  do  rm  wlihta  be ■UatopnHntnawdiaha  without fakrorbBiiurcsr  u> 
)Ddce  with  accnncr  H  to  Hi*  Talaa  of  any  new  raciiie  }  Cobm  to  SoaHi  rii»th«ii»  and  learn  how  to  do  theM  thlnfi  by 
doinsUwm. 

of  urtaa  aad  othor  tatbrtOMltoa.  mpply  in  perwan  or  by  letter  to 


Btir  advertiied  Goodi  —  do  not  accept  ■nbatitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Buy  as  Dealers  Buy  —  and  Where  They  Buy 

npHE  best  way  to  buy  SDod  [umiture  li  dlrccf  fniin  the  taaon — the  bnt  place  to  gel 
-L  ft  [■  at  GtaDdRHpldSith^world'ifumlLun  center.     Htrr  Ar^ga  and  qiuUty  nrm 


-heiEicylcianiJ. 

Ily  PBrallBie.  at  I.< 

lu  the  lateat  and  best  fi 


Quality  Furniture  g^i 

i  i 


the  faclots — the  I 
rnlture  center.     Here  dtaigii 
lurniturr  of  dan  are  (bed. 

■rmtVumiture  Mart — the  heart  of  the  high-  1 

of  divrCmlnatlnfl 


iSfil 


,  policy — your  — ,_,,  _  -_. 

money  back.  We  will  fumlfh 
and  o&n  complete— no  mHtltr: 
o,  how  elaborile  vourneedi,  an 

3  Book  of  Quillv— 184  Baadaoa*  Lmwi*  r>4aa  (ar  WUa 

=.„T-„  .»..  f .  n J  ■-- ,id»>B«llB«  DHl^aa, 

'  furniture  valuM  teallv 


•  boy. 

laiiiy  inrniiure  uo.  fl,ao..i,„Bi<M..ora.d Rapid.. mch. 


illara  Bi 


Tr^'ut- 


"S///>er  Plate  fhaf  M^crrs". 


OldColoiy 

design  of  marked  individoalily. 
Sold  by  leading  dealen. 
UTEiuiioHL  (iLm  CO..  HEnodi.  nm. 

The  WwU'i  L..M  M.Un  of  SicHIn*  Silw  uid  PliM. 


WESTERN  POSITIONS  FOR  TEACHERS  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE 


•tDarteBChen  outtritht. 


'^'ROCKyMr  rFACH£RSAGE/VCY 


A  REMARKABLE  OFFER 

For  k  limited  time  w«  will  send  to  yonr  home 

FREE -ON  THIRTY  DAYS'  APPROVAL 

TBX  "BERDEBSOM  CEBTIPIED"  AUTOMATIC  CHAINSTITCH 

If  foa  desire,  yon  foay  pnrcIimsB  for 

$29.50  —  USUAL   PRICE.    $4S.OO 

(foe  Mme  thiiv  wltb  littla  different  ityle  cafalnet) 

Our  eW  Rental  Pnrchaie  PI*d  aoon  nuke*  Uie  machine  roqn. 

PAYUENTS  AS  UTTLB  AS  $1.00  A  WEEK 

If,  for  anr  reaaon,  yoa  do  not  wish  to  keep  tba  machine. 


n  Itwitlioat  anr  obUcation  01 


Free  deUTeir  to  r 


nebaitButomaticchalnatltcbiDacliinaiiiUiewgtid. 
Or4f  Oa»  Tpamr—Daa'l  Wmit 

F.  C.  HENDERSON  COMPANY 

4M  yMhtntfBB  SU  Crorty  BU<^  MSTOH,  HASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods- 


i  acO«[ft  sutntttttlea 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Brown  Your  Hair 

With  Walnut  Tint  Hair  Stain 

eaked 
toa 


e  hmTrJa 


Send  Toor  name  Ad  addreu,  and  en- 

eor  coin)  and  mt  will  Uail  rou.  chantM 
(e,lD  pWn.  Malcdwrappcr,  witli  Tal- 
'.    Un.  Poltet'a  KrfJSnle  SopplrCU.. 


«  GrotoD  Bide  .  QDciiiDstl,  O. 


What  Cora  Manning  Sayt. 


JELL-0 


The  name  Jell-O 


dcliihtful  Jell-O  llavorB:    sirawbeiry, 

tSi  aik  lir'u  we  iriU  and  /•■  Ibc  rtttpt 
1i  ol  the  narM."  nalraled  ■■  Im  otit  asd  laliC 
S  niU  FOOD  CCLelav.  N.y..l>d  BrHtcfegn.  Cu. 


Wlwn  ron  tud  a  cook  » , , 

tnt  KTBTiea,  aaace*.  aDam.  baaliea  and  llk«  dtabe*  tbal 
tatte'ufmoritturaTaood,  roa  mar  know,  wltlioat  aaUnc. 
tbat  the  cook  bactbeaCCrct  of  Kitchen  Boaqaet. 

KITCHEN  BOUQUET 

Mmkmm  m  r^palattaa  tot  tf«otf  eootmrr 

Thg  aromatic,  blended  lnlcM  of  the  flneat  carden  prod. 
ncU.  Added  to  tb«  tfofrood  Juit  before  aenins  it  trana. 
forma  a  commonplace  dlili  Into  a  real  cooking  triumph. 

Send  to-day  for  Your  Sample  Botde 


A  ireaerDaa  trial  battle  and 


aSc  IwttieJi  atV''<^frB~"The"PBll«BdB  Manof*dturln« 
CompanT.  MS  CUnlon  A>e..  Weat  IloOoken,  New  Jeney- 


ttuy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  sdBsfitutea 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Bujr  adTcrtiicd  Good*  — do  not  accept  ■ubttituiei 


The  Advantages  of  Drinking 

BAKER'S 
COCOA 

The  Cocoa  of 
High  Qualitu 

■  lie  in  its  absolute 
purity  and  wholc- 
someness,  its  deli- 
cious natural  flavor, 
and  its  perfect 
assimilation  by  the 
digestive  organs. 

Ai  then  an  mana  Inftrhr 
tmiUdliiTa,  coatumtrt  sAouU 
htimelatdthttenidntitiA 
ear  ^raJt^mer^  on  pacief- 

1  Walter  Baker  CS,  Co.  Ltd. 

■bUitaedlTM     DORCHESTER,  MASS. 


VEUVK  CHAFFARD 

PURE  OLIVE  OIL 

BOTTLED  IN  FRANCE 


IN  HONEST 
BOTTLES 


FULL  QUARTS 
FULL  PINTS 
FULL   1-2  PINTS 

SOLD   BY 

PARK  &  TILFORD,  New  York 
S.  S.  PIERCE  CO.,  BOSTON 


ONE  QUART 


liRtNBERRIEd 

EVAPORATED 
For   eltfhl   2>ccDt 
•taiMpa     m  n  1 1  ■  d 
aaywhera    In   th* 
United  SlatCA. 

By  our  new  process,  we  evapoiatc 
Cape  Cod  Cranberries  fiesh  frwn  the 
vines  so  they  retain  theii  natural  fruit 
flavor,  pack  them  in  sealed  packages 
so  they  can  be  shipped  all  over  the 
world  and  used  all  through  the  year. 


If  your  grocer  doa'l  keep  them  lead  u>  ha 
iMitie  wiclacldreM  with  8-2ccaI  (lamptfois 
pkg.  equal  to  oii«  quart  fresh  cran- 
barric*  by  m«il.  po»lp»id  in  lh«  U.  S. 


SAWYER  CRYSTAL  BLUE  COMPANY 
Sals  StOlat  Airati.  n  tnti  St.  Baataa.  Haw.,  V.  S,  L. 


Food  is  what  yon  KaX^nourishtneni  what 
you  digest  Your  system  seldom  assiiiii- 
lates  all  of  the  food  you  eat  Even  bread 
yields  only  fiarioi  its  nutriment  unless  the 
digestive  system  is  given  Bssistance. 


H  liltle 
100*  o[  Ihe  bread's  uul 


will  tUen  gel  U 


LiEBi6= 

COMPtNT'S  EXTMCT  OF  BEEF 

Baautiful  Roaen'  3il»M-warB.  SiMi.lu»lbEiii»U 


^yose 


own  tbao  NTUj^lTM 

_  [vIsB plana.   WatekadI 

AtalB  aicbaiice  and  daUrw  HiaiwiifcM 

■  fwrkaaatraagfaxpaaaa.  WfWa  far  Cat1ii«n»  P  and  aut— SJJ. 

voSK  j>  SONS  piawn  m..  lAn  iinvi>tn*  mtmmtt  i 


PIANOS; 


EFFICIENCY   IN   HOME    MAKING 

THE  BOSTON 

C         G-SC 

MAGAZINE 

OFCUIyINAR>Y-SCI£NC£AND* 
DOM.ESTIC  •  SCONOMIC5 


Fruit  Shortcake 

Hot   or  cold,  the  most  delicious,  light, 
tender  shortcake  you  ever  hoped  to  enjoy 
— more    digestible,  too,  because  perfectly 
leavened  with 


RUMFOI 

This  is  the  best  powder  for 
ical,  most  uniform,  most  wh 


RUMFORD  CHEMICAL  WOR 


A   COMPANION    VOLUME   TO    "THE 
BOSTON  COOKING   SCHOOL  COOK-BOOK" 


A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 

Ifitk  Eight  Cakrei  Plaiei  mid  more  iban  Taro  Hundred  UUstratiem  in  Ha^-Tent 

440  Pages.     Cloth,  $1.60,  net.     By  mail,  $1.75 

The  "New  Book  of  Cookery"  contains  more  than 
eight  hundred  recipies  upon  all  branches,  including  many 
new  and  important  dishes  not  to  be  found  in  any  other 
work. 

An  almost  indispensable  companion  to  the  author's 
invaluable  "  Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book." 

This  book  presents  the  latest  triumphs  of  the  cuUniry  art. 
It  is  very  fully  and  attractively  illustrated. — Neta   Tori  Sun. 


LITTLE,  BROWN  &  CO.,  Publishers,   -   -    BOSTON 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Ciowds  —  do  not  accept  siibslituMs 


THE  BOSTON  COOKBVG- 
SGHOOL  MAGAZINE 

Vol.  XVni  AUGUST-SEPTEMBER,  1013  No.  2 

I 


CONTENTS  FOR  AUGUST-SEPTEMBER 

PAGE 

MENUS  FOR  AUGUST-SEPTEMBER  LUNCHEONS  ...  97 

ONE  PRACTICE  HOUSE   (Illustrated)     ...     An  Instructor  99 

HOW  MISS  JANET  GREW  YOUNG      ....     Alix  Thorn  106 

EFFICIENCY  IN  HOME  MAKING     .      Fannie  Wilder  Brown  109 

AN  AUGUST  SONG L.  M.  Thornton  111 

THE  GOLDEN  YEARS Eleanor  Rotbins  Wilson  112 

SEPTEMBER L.  M.  T.  114 

"FINDING"  OURSELVES  IN  WALES       Miss  E.  D.  Learned  116 

THE  LYRIC  OF  LIFE Jane  Burr  117 

EDITORIALS 118 

SEASONABLE   RECIPES  (Illustrated  with  half-tone  engravings 

of  prepared  dishes) Janet  M.  Hill  121 

MENUS  FOR  WEEK  IN  AUGUST 129 

MENUS  INEXPENSIVE  FOR  WEEK   IN  SEP- 
TEMBER     


MENUS  FOR  OCCASIONS 


>»  »  l> 


A  BLACKBERRY  DESSERT,  WITH 

VARIATIONS Jessamine  Chapman 

KEEPING  HOUSE  IN  THE  MARGINS  OF 

THE  DAY Ruth  Lincoln 

COLLEGE  COOKING        Mary  Carolyn  Davies 

SCIENCE  AND  FOOD Dr.  Carl  L.  Alsberg 

DE-NATURED  ALCOHOL        Alice  M.  Ashton 

HARMONY  IN  HOME  SURROUNDINGS 

Florence  Lincoln  Bush 

HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 

QUERIES  AND  ANSWERS 

NEW  BOOKS 

MISCELLANEOUS 


80 
31 

32 

34 
36 
37 
39 

41 

43 
47 
56 
60 


91.00  A  YEAR  Published  Ten  Times  a  Year  10c  A  COPY 

Four  Years'  Subscription.   $3«00 
Eatared  at  Boston  post-offico  as  second-class  matter.    Copyridbtt  1913»  by 

THE.   BOSTON     GOOEING     SCHOOL     MAGAZINE     COMPANY 
372  BOYLSTON   STREET  BOSTON.  MASSACHUSETTS 


Please  Renew  on  Receipt  of  the  Colored  Blank  Enclosed  for  that  Purpose 

90 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Approved    hy     tht     Wtttfitli    Board    of    Htalth 

Buy  adTCrtijeti  Goods  —  do  not  accept  fubatitutci 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING- SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


"VARIETY 

THE  VERY  SPICE  OF  UFE  THAT 
GIVES  IT  ALL  ITS  FLAVOR" 


ApptoTfld  hj  Qtemkti  and  Oich  aad  Coekt 

a«l«d  "EXCELLENT"  by  Dr.  Ally  a  ol 

WE5TF1ELD  bOABD  OF  HEALTH 

SoUbr  Croon  Gel  SUde'i 

D.  &  L.  SLADE  CO^  BOSTON 


WAN  TED 

SITUATIOKS      H      ASSISTANTS 


Under  this  headiog  we  will  insert  an- 
nouncements of  those  desiring  situations 
and  of  those  desiring  toengage  assistants. 
Our  magazine  reaches  more  school!)  where 
cooking  is  taught;  hospitals;  public  insti- 
tutions; cooking  teacnera,  lecturers  and 
demonstrators:  dietitians;  matrons;  etc.; 
than  any  other  one  periodical,  and  will 
prove  a  successful  medium  for  those  wbh- 
ing  a  situation  or  desiring  to  fill  a  position 
along  these  lines. 

Ritn  25  Hits  pir  uata  liis,  each  iiurtioa 


THIS  IS  7  LINE  SPACE 

Si.76    EACH    Insertion 


THE  BOSTON  COOKINO  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


BOSTON,  MASS. 


INDEX  FOR  AUQUST-SBPTEHBER 

A  Blackberry  Dessert . 132 

An    August    Song lU 

College  Cooking 136 

De-natured    Alcohol 139 

Efficiency  in  Home-making 10? 

Editorials      118 

Finding  Ourselves  in  Wales 115 

Harmony  in  Home  Surroundings  ....  141 

How  Miss  Janet  Grew  Young 105 

Home  Ideas  and  Economies 143 

Keeping  House  in  the  Margins  of  the  Day  134 

Menus 97-129 

One  Practice  House 99 

September     114 

Science  and    Food 137 

The  Golden  Days 112 

The  Lyric  of  Life 117 

Seasonable  Recipes; 

Bread,  Entire  Wheat.  Ill 127 

Cake.  Chocolate.  Ill 128 

Chaudfroid  of  Poached  Eggs,  111.    .   .  122 

Chicken.  Panned 123 

Chilo,  China 123 

Crackers.  Deviled 121 

Cutlets,  Veal.  Pojarski  Style,  111.  ...  124 

Egg-plant.  Broiled.  Ill 125 

Egg-plant.  Stuffed 125 

FilMng,  English  Cream 126 

Frosting.  Confectioner's 127 

Jelly.  Aspic 122 

Jelly,  Mint,  with  Green  Grapes  ....  127 

Loaf,  Veal,  with  Potato  Salad.  III.    .   .  124 

Muffins,  India  Wheat,  III 127 

Peach  Gateau.  Ill 128 

Pie.  Cream 126 

Pudding,  Cheese,  with  Pimento  ....  126 

Relish,    Celery 121 

Salad,  Apple -and -Pimento 126 

Salad,    Pimento-and-Cheese,    111.  ...  126 

Salad,  Tomato,  with  Green  Corn    .   .  124 

Salad,  Tuna.  Ill 122 

Sauce.  Oyster  Cocktail 121 

Tuna  au  Gratin  in  Shells.  Ill 122 

Tomatoes  and  Corn,  Stewed 124 

Tomatoes  and  Corn.  Scalloped  ....  124 

QuEmes  and  Answers: 

.\pron.  Pattern  of 147 

Bread.  Raisin 147 

Cake,  Shrewsbury 152 

Catsup,  Tomato 148 

Custard.  Chocolate,  with  Fudge  Sauce  148 

I'Vosting,  Mocha 150 

Heat  of  Oven  for  Bread 150 

.    Ice-cream.  Creme  de  Menthe 148 

Indian  Meal   Mush,  Fried 152 

Jelly,  Cucumber 147 

Jelly.  Roll 154 

Lady  Fingers 152 

Lobster,  Broiled  Live 154 

Muffins,  India  Wheat 152 

Pansies.  Mint  Leaves,  etc..  Candied  .   .  ISO 

Pastry   Bag  and  Tube.  Use  of  ...    .  152 

Sauce.  Tomato,  for  Baked  Beans    .   .  148 

Soda  and  Cake  Mixture 150 

Steaming  Forequarler  of  Lamb  ....  148 

Sweet  Herbs 147 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


For  the 

Heated 
Term 


Mrs.  Rorer's 
Books 

Timely  and  SAtufying 


Ice  Creams,  Water  Ices,  Frozen  Puddings 

Just  out.     Here  are  the  famous  Philadelphia  Ice  Creams, 
Neapolitan  Ice  Creams,  Water  Ices,  Frozen  Puddings 
and  Desserts,  Frozen  Fruits,  Sherbets,  Sorbets,  Frappe, 
Parfait,  Mousse,  Sauces  for  Ice  Creams,  etc. 
Qoth,  75  cents ;  by  mail,  85  cents 

Canning  and  Preserving 

Of  course  you  will  put  up  something  for  winter  use. 
Here's  the  best  book  to  help  you  to  success.  Tells  all 
about  canning  and  preserving  fruits  and  vegetables,  how 
to  make  jams,  jellies,  syrups,  marmalades,  fruit  butters, 
etc.  And  you  cannot  fail.  Everything  is  dead-sure. 
Cloth,  75  cents;  by  mail,  85  cents 

HOT  WEATHER  DISHES.  Gives  a  great  variety  of 
appetizing  dishes,  easy  to  make  and  serve.  A  splendid 
book  that  saves  a  whole  lot  of  worry. 

Cloth,  50  cents ;  by  mail,  55  cents 

SANDWICHES.  For  the  home,  picnic,  and  lunch  basket. 
Good  now  and  all  the  year  round. 

Cloth,  50  cents ;  by  mail,  55  cents 


Sold  by  all  bookstores  and  department  storesy  or 

ARNOLD  &  COMPANY,  430  Sansom  Street,  Philadelphia 


Lessons  in  Elementary  Cooking 

By  MARY  CHANDLER  JONES 

Teaclisr  of  Cooksry  In  tbe  Pobllo  Scbools  of  Brooklflne*  Mass. 

Clothe   208  PageSf   Illustrated,    $L00  ntL        Postage,    8   cents 

PiRT  of  this  book  appeared  serially  in  this  magazine  and  met  with  such  favor  as  to  warrant 
its  publication  in  book  form.     The  chapters  that  were  in  the  magazine  have  been  rewritten 
and  enlarged,  and  about  as  many  more  entirely  new  chapters  (37  chapters  in  all)  added, 
together  with  some  dozen  or  more  illlustrations. 

1  ni8  Book  is  for  the  use  of  those  teaching  Cooking  in  the  Ellementary  Schools, 
and  we  bdieve  such  teachers  will  derive  more  help  from  this  book  than  from  any  other  yet 
published. 

I  niS    Book  has  been  adopted  as  a  text  book  by  many  High  Schools. 
1  ulS    Book  is  used  as  a  text  book  in  several  State  Normal  Schools. 

Every  Cooking  Teacher  needs  this  book 
Any  School  using  a  text  book  will  do  well  to  examine  this  one 

ADDRESS    ALL    ORDERS 

THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO..    Boston.  Mass. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

93 


THE    BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGAZINE 


Books  on  Household  Economics 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  presents  the  following  as  a  list  of  repre- 
sentative works  on  household  economics.    Any  of  the  books  will  be  sent  postpaid  upon 
receipt  of  price. 
With   an   order   amounting   to  $5  or   more   we   include   a   year's  subscription  to  THE 
BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  (price  $1). 

Special  rates  made  to  schools,  clubs  and  persons  wishing  a  number  of  books.  Write  for 
quotation  on  the  list  of  books  you  wish.  We  carry  a  very  large  stock  of  these  books.  One  order 
to  us  saves  effort  and  express  charges. 


A-B-Z  of  Our  Own  Nutrition.  Horace 

Fletcher     

Air,  Water  and  Food.      Richards   and 

Woodman 

American  Salad  Book.  M.  DeLoup... 
Art    of    Home    Candy-Making    (with 

thermometer,  dipping  wire,  etc.) 

Art  of  Right  Living.     Richards 

Baby,  The.    A  book  for  mothers  and 

nurses.   D.  R.  Brown,  M.  D 

Bacteria,    Yeasts    and    Molds    in    the 

Home.    H.  W.  Conn 

Blue  Grrass  Cook  Book.  Minnie  C.  Fox 
Book  of  Entrees.  Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill 
Book  of  Good  Mamiers.  Kingsland. . . 
Boston  Cook  Book.  Mary  J.  Lincoln 
Boston   Cooking   School   Cook   Book. 

Fannie  M.   Farmer   

Boston    School    Kitchen    Text    Book. 

Mary  J.  Lincoln  

Bread  and  Bread-making.  Mrs.  Rorer 
Bright  Ideas  for  Entertaining.  Linscott 
Brussels  Charts  (Two.)    Showing  cuts 

of  Beef,  Ltmb  and  Veal  

CUdces,  Icings  and  Fillings.  Mrs.  Rorer 
Cakes,  Cake  Decorations  and  Desserts. 

King    

Candy  Making  Revolutionized.     Mary 

Elizabeth  Hall  

Canning  and  Preserving.  Mrs.  Rorer 
Care  and  Feeding  of  Children.     L.  £. 

Care  of  a  Child  in  Health.    N.  Oppen- 

heim    

Care  of  a  House.    T.  M.  Clark 

Carving  and  Serving.  Mary  J.  Lincoln 
Century  Cook  Book.  Mary  Roland.. 
Chemistry  in  Daily  Life.  Lessar-Cohn 
Chemistry    of    Cookery.    W.   Mattieu 

Williams    

Chemistry   of   Cooking    and   Cleaning 

Richards  and  Elliott  

Chemistry    of    Pood    and-  Nutrition. 

Sherman    

Clean  Milk.    S.  D.  Belcher 

Cleaning  and  Renovating.  £.  G.  Osman 
Color,   Harmony    and    Contrast.     Jas. 

Wood   

Complete     Home,     The.      Clara     £. 

Laughlin    

Cook  Book  for  Nurses.  Sarah  C.  Hill 
Cooking  for  Two.  Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill 
Cost  of  Cleanness.     Richards  


1.00 

2.00 
1.00 

3.00 
.50 

1.00 

1.20 
2.00 
1.50 
1.50 
2.00 

2.00 

1.00 
.50 
.50 

2.00 
.50 

1.00 

.75 
.50 

.75 

1.25 

.50 

.60 

2.00 

1.75 

1.50 

1.00 

1.50 

1.00 

.75 

4.20 

1.25 

.75 

1.50 

1.00 


Cost  of  Pood.    Richards  1.00 

Cost  of  Living.    Richards 1.00 

Cost  of  Shelter.     Richards  1.00 

Dainties.     Mrs.  Rorer 75 

Desserts — One  Hundred  Recipes.     By 

Filippini     30 

Dietetic  Value  of  Bread.    John  Good- 
fellow   1.50 

Dictionary  of  Cookery.    Cassell 2.50 

Domestic      Science      in      Elementary 

Schools.     Wilson   1.00 

Domestic  Service.     Lucy  M.  Salmon..  2.00 

Dust  and  Its  Dangers.     Pruden 75 

Economics  of  Modem  Cookery.  M.  M. 

Mallock    1.00 

Elements  of  the  Theory  and  Practice 

of  Cookery.    Williams  and  Fisher...  1.00 
Bquipment    for    Teaching    Domestic 

Science.     Kinne   80 

Etiquette      of     New     York     Today. 

Learned   1.35 

Etiquette  of  Today.    Ordway .50 

European  and  American  Cuisine.    Mrs. 

Lemcke    2.00 

Euthenics.     Richards    1.00 

Every  Day  Menu  Book.    Mrs.  Rorer..   1.50 
Expert  Waitress.    A.  F.  Springsteed..   1.00 

Family  Food.  O'Donnell  1.00 

First  Lessons  in  Food  and  Diet 30 

Fish — One  Hundred  Recipes  for  Cook- 
ing Fish.    Filippini 35 

First  Principles  of  Nursing.    Anne  R. 

Manning    1.00 

Food  and  Cookery  for  the   Sick  and 

Convalescent.   Fannie  M.  Farmer.. ..   1.60 
Food  and  Dietaries.     R.    W.    Burnett 

M.  D 1.50 

Food      and      Feeding.        Sir      Henry 

Thompson     1.35 

Food  and  Its  Function.    James  Knight  1.00 
Food  and  the  Principles  of  Dietetics. 

Hutchinson     3.00 

Food  for  the  Invidid  and  the  Convales- 
cent.    Gibbs  75 

Food  in  Health  and    Disease.     I.    B. 

Yeo,  M.  D 2.50 

Food   Materials   and   Their   Adultera- 
tions.    Richards    1.00 

Food  Products  of  the  World.    Mary  E. 

Green 1.50 

Franco-American  Cookery  Book.     De- 
liee 3.50 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

94 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


French  Hottsehold  Cookins;.  Keyser . .  .60 
Fuels  of  the  Household.  Marian  White  75 
Golden  Rule  Cook  Book  (600  Recipes 

for  Meatless  Dishes).     Sharpe 2.00 

Guide  to  Modem  Cookery.  M.  Escoffier  4.00 
Handbook  of  Home  Economics.  Flagg  .75 
Handbook    of    Hospitality    for    Town 

and  Country.     Florence  H.  Hall 1.50 

Handbook  of  Invalid  Cooking.     Mary 

A.  Boland  2.00 

Handbook  on  Sanitation.    G.  M.  Price, 

M.  D 1.50 

Healthful   Farm   House,   The.     Helen 

Dodd    60 

Home  Candy  Making.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Home  Economics.    Maria  Parloa 1.50 

Home  Economics  Movement 75 

Home  Nursing.     Harrison   1.00 

Home  Problems  from  a  New  Standpoint  1.00 
Home  Science  Cook  Book.    Anna  Bar- 
rows and  Mary  J.  Lincoln 1.00 

Homes  and  Their  Decoration.    French  3.00 

Hot  Weather  Dishes.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

House  Sanitation.    Talbot 80 

Household  Bacteriology.  Buchanan . .  2.25 
Household  Economics.*  Helen  Campbell  1.50 
Household  Science.  Junita  L.  Shepperd  1.75 

How  To  Cook  Fish.     Olive  Green 1.00 

How  To  Cook  for  the  Sick  and  Con- 
valescent.   H.  V.  Sachse 1.00 

How  To  Feed    Children.     Louise    E. 

Hogan    1.00 

How  to  Use  a  Chafing  Dish.  Mrs.  Rorer    .50 

Human  Foods.    Snyder 1.25 

Ice  Cream,  Water  Ices,  etc.    Rorer  ...     .75 

Institution  Recipes.    Smedley 1.25 

International  Cook  Book.    Filippini...   1.00 

Kitchen  Companion.    Parloa 2.50 

Laundry  Manual.   Balderston  and  Lim- 
erick     50 

Laundry  Work.  Juanita  L.  Shepperd  .60 
Lessons  in  Cooking  Through  Prepara* 

tion  of  Meals  2.00 

Lessons  in  Elementary  Cooking.   Mary 

C.    Jones   1.08 

Like  jyiother  Used  to  Make.  Herrick.  1.25 
Louis'     Salad     and     Chafing     Dishes. 

Muckensturm     50 

Luncheons.     Mary  Roland   1.40 

Made-over  Dishes.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Many  Ways  for  Cooking  Eggs.     Mrs. 

Rorer    50 

Menu   Book  and   Register  of  Dishes. 

Senn    2.50 

Mothers',  The,  Ghiide.    Coolidge d« 

My  Best  250  Recipes.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 

New  Book  of  Cookery,  A.  Fannie  M. 

Farmer 1-60 

New  Hostess  of  Today.    Lamed 1.50 

New  Salads.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 

Nursing,  Its  Principles  and    Practice. 

Isabel  H.  Robb  2.00 

Nutrition  of  Man.    Chittenden  3.00 


Old  Time   Recipes  for    Home    Made 

Wines.     Helen  S.  Wright 1.50 

One     Hundred     Mushroom     Recipes. 

Sargent    50 

One  Woman's  Work  for  Farm  Women    .50 

Paper  Bag  Cookery.    Soyer 60 

Pleasures  of  the  Table.    Elwanger 2.50 

Practical  Cooking  and  Dinner  Giving. 

Mrs.  Mary  F.  Henderson 1.50 

Practical  Cooking  and  Serving.     Mrs. 

Janet  M.  Hill 1.50 

Practical  Dietetics.    Gilman  Thompson  5.00 
Practical    Points    in    Nursing.     Emily 

A.  M.  Stoney  1.75 

Principles  of  Home  Decoration.    Can- 
dace  Wheeler    1.80 

Principles  of  Human  Nutrition.  Jordan  1.75 
Proper  Feeding  of  the  Family.    Gibbs    .25 

Quick  Soups.    Mrs.  Rorer 25 

Register  of  Foods 1.00 

Rorer's  (Mrs.)  New  Cook  Book 2.00 

Salads  and  Sauces.    Murray 50 

Salads,  Sandwiches,  and  Chafing  Dish 

Dainties.    Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill 1.50 

Sanitation  in  Daily  Life.    Richards 60 

Sewing  Course  for  Schools.    Woolman  1.50 

Story  of  Germ  Life.    H.  W.  Conn 35 

Soyer's  Standard  Cookery  1.50 

Sunday  Night  Suppers.    Christine  Ter- 

hune  Herrick  1.00 

The  Up-to-Date  Waitress.    Mrs.  Janet 

M.   Hill    1.50 

The  Woman  Who  Spends.     Bertha  J. 

Richardson    1.00 

Till  the  Doctor  Comes,  and  How  To 

Help  Him  1.00 

Vegetable  Cookery  and  Meat    Substi- 
tutes.    Mrs.  Rorer 1.50 

Vegetarian  Cookery.    A.  G.  Payne 50 

With  a  Saucepan  Over  the  Sea.    Ade-      , 

laide   Keen    1.50 

Women    and     Economics.      Charlotte 

Perkins   Stetson    1.50 

Woman's  Share  in   Primitive   Culture. 

Otis  J.  Mason   1.75 

World's  Conmiercial  Products,  The.  . .  3.60 

Library  of  Home  Economics: 


Tlie  Hoflut 

Honaehtii  SadtrfoltiT 
Baoteholi  BydMa 
Chenitlry  tl  the  BMiMhaU 
f  riodplM  of  CMkery 
Ftod  aoJ  Ditlatict 


fleMehtli  MtaagMMat 
FtrMsal  Hydcat 
HMBeCara  tItlMSick 
TexHIet  ani  Clalkisl 
Shi4y  •!  Child  Life 
Cara  al  Chlliraa 


(May   be   purchased    as   a   set    or 
singly  at  $1.50  a  volume). 

Appleton's 
The  Complete  Home  Library 

Tha  Caoplala  Haalaaa  I   Tha  Camplele  Draaamaker 

Tha  Canplata  Hama  I   Tha  Caaplata  Baauly  Baok 

Publishers*  price  $1.25  per  volume 

Our  Special  Price  (Sets  only,  4  vols.)  3.00 


ADDRESS  ALL  ORDERS 

THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

95 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 

Simply   Pure   Leaf  Fat 
Tried  Out  in  Open  Kettles 

No  mystery  about  it— the  process  is  old  as  the  art  of 
cookery. 

Pure  leaf  fat,  carefully  trimmed,  slowly  simmered  in 
open  kettles,  strained,  chilled,  government  inspected  and 
sealed— that  is  Armour  s  '*  Simon  Pure^  Leaf  Lard, 

Exactly  the  same  pure  leaf  lard  that  careful  house- 
wives made  for  themselves  before  the  days  of  * 'Simon 
Pure'*  because  they  knew  that  real  leaf  lard  was  necessary 
for  good  cooking. 

[5]   m 

People  who  like  to  know  just  what  they  are  using,  and  who 
realize  that  real  economy  is  quality,  rather  than  lowest  price,  buy 
Armour's  "Simon  Pure"  Leaf  Lard. 

Only  the  best  of  leaf  fat  goes  into  Armour's  '^'Simon  Pure." 


Menus  for  August  Luncheons 

I. 

Peach-and-Pineapple  Cocktail 

Chaudfroid  of  Poached  Eggs 

Hot  Pulled  Bread 

Fried  Chicken      Green  Corn  Fritters 

Sweet  Pickled  Figs,  or 

Garden  Cress,  French  Dressing 

Canned  Apricots,  Frozen 

Coffee 

II. 
Celery   Relish 
Browned  Crackers 
Baked  Turbans  of  Halibut,  Potato  Balls 
Beets  Stuffed  with  Chopped  Cucumbers, 
French  Dressing 
Veal  Cutlets,  Pojarski  Style 
Buttered  String  Beans 
Lettuce  and  Tomatoes,  Mayonnaise  Dress- 
ing, with  onion  juice 
Peach      Sherbet      Sponge  Drops 

Coffee 

^    ^    ^ 

Menus  for  September  Luncheons 

I. 

Cream  of  Celery 

Panned  Chicken 

Steamed  Golden  Bantam  Sweet  Corn 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Southern  Style 

Cream  Cheese-and-Pimento  Salad 

Deviled  Crackers 

Coffee 

II. 

Oyster  Cocktail 

Deviled  Crackers 

Breaded  Lamb  Chops,  Fried 

Stuffed  Egg- Plant,  Tomato  Sauce 

Cheese  Omelet 

Apple-and-Pimento  Salad 

Coffee 

Assorted  Grapes 


The 
Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


Vol.  XVIII 


AUGUST-SEPTEMBER,  1913 


No.  2 


One  Practice  House 


IT  was  not  long  after  the  beginning 
of  the  teaching  of  home-making  that 
the  need  was  felt  of  an  opportunity 
to  synthesize  all  the  housekeeping  pro- 
cesses, under  the  observation  of  the  in- 
structor, and  so  to  make  a  vital  test  of 
the  availability  of  the  knowledge  gained 
in  .the  classroom.  To  prepare  a  single 
dish  under  carefiilly  planned  conditions 
is  a  wise  preliminary  to  the  preparation 
of  a  whole  meal  under  ordinary  home 
conditions,  but  the  power  to  prepare  a 
series  of  them  perfectly  does  not  always 
result  in  the  power  to  serve  the  whole 
meal  with  each  hot  dish  cooked  to  ex- 
actly the  right  point.  "Dummy"  table 
service  is  helpful  as  a  preparation,  but 
the  actual  service  of  a  meal  is  almost  an- 
other story.  Laundering  in  the  class, 
taking  each  type  of  article  in  orderly  se- 
quence, and  doing  the  week's  *  washing, 
are  two  problems  differing  in  many 
ways.  Learning  to  clean  floors,  walls, 
windows,  glass,  brass,  silver,  turning 
from  one  to  the  other,  gives  the  necessary 
foundation,  but  cleaning  a  room  or  a 
house  is  a  different  matter.  The  theory 
of  "doing"  a  bedroom  is  best  tested  by 
putting  in  order  for  the  day  an  actual 
bedroom. 

No  one  doubts  all  this,  but  the  prob- 
lem of  providing  for  such  applications 
is  not  an  easy  one.  The  first  difficulty 
that  confronts  most  schools  is  that  of 


expense.  A  good  deal  of  space  must  be 
set  aside  for  the  use  of  a  comparatively 
few  students  at  one  time.  Next  come 
the  difficulties  of  schedule.  Only  a  small 
group  of  students  can  work  profitably 
at  such  practice,  simultaneously,  and 
either  they  must  lose  some  regular  class 
work  or  the  house  will  be  little  used  and 
no  student  will  get  much  practice. 

In  some  places  students  live  in  such  a 
house,  in  groups,  for  a  period  of  several 
weeks  at  a  time,  carrying  on  regular 
school  work,  and  spending  part  of  their 
time  in  housework.  This  would  be  an 
excellent  method  for  the  experienced, 
but  the  authorities  of  the  School  of 
Household  Science  and  Arts  of  Pratt  In- 
stitute hold  that  to  the  inexperienced  this 
gives  unsatisfactory  results,  since  they 
cannot  give  enough  time  and  thought  to 
the  planning  of  each  detail  to  get  the 
best  out  of  the  experience.  They,  there- 
fore, have  arranged  that  each  full-time 
student  in  household  science  shall  stay 
away  from  the  classes  for  one  week,  to 
give  her  whole  time  and  attention  to  the 
housekeeping  problem.  Students  from 
the  senior  normal  household  science  and 
from  the  one-year  course  in  institutional 
household  science  have  this  experience. 
The  former  carry  on  their  practice 
teaching  as  usual  during  the  week,  but 
do  no  other  school  work.  The  making 
up  of  the  week  is  not  easy,  but  the  value 


99 


100 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


of  the  practice  week  offsets  the  loss  of 
lecture  and  laboratory. 

The  Practice  House  of  Pratt  Institute 
is  a  three-story  one  in  the  near  neighbor- 
hood of  the  Institute.  It  is  not,  of 
course,  in  a  city  like  Brooklyn,  a  de- 
tached house,  but  one  in  a  row.  It  is  on 
a  corner,  and  belongs  to  a  group  of 
houses  built  on  Pratt  Institute  property, 
very  attractive,  and  with  the  great  ad- 
vantage of  being  heated  and  furnished 
with  hot  water  from  a  central  plant.  A 
sketch  of  these  houses  is  given  in  Mrs. 
Ellen  H.  Richards's  "Cost  of  Shelter." 
The  house  has  eight  rooms,  a  bathroom, 
a  cemented  cellar,  and  an  attic.  There 
is  a  small  lawn  in  front  of  the  house, 
and  a  small  garden  at  the  back.  A  win- 
dow-box in  the  second  story  over  the 
door  makes  the  front  of  the  house  gay, 
without,  from  May  to  November. 

The  furnishing  of  this  Practice  House 
was  not  done,  as  it  has  sometimes  been 
done  elsewhere,  by  the  students  as  a 
school  problem.  The  reason  for  this  was 
that  the  house  is  to  be  used,  year  after 


year,  by  many  generations  of  students, 
and  it  seemed  wiser  to  have  it  represent 
the  ideas  and  ideals  of  those  responsible 
for  its  establishment  rather  than  those 
of  a  single  group  of  students.  Only  one 
group  can  have  the  actual  experience  of 
furnishing,  since  no  school,  any  more 
than  a  family,  can  afford  to  refurnish 
every  year.  And.  indeed,  even  were  it 
a  financial  possibility,  such  an  arrange- 
ment would  be  totally  destructive  of  the 
home  atmosphere  A  house  is  not  fur- 
nished, once  for  all,  as  planned  and  fin- 
ished. It  grows  gradually,  by  hardly 
perceptible  accretions  and  assimilations, 
into  an  organic  unity. 

The  House  was  furnished  as  a  family 
living  in  such  a  house  could  afford  to 
furnish  it.  The  House  (including  heat 
and  hot  water)  rents  for  $47.50  a 
month,  or  $572  a  year.  This  is  a  very 
low  rent  for  such  an  attractive  house 
in  the  city,  but  is  the  regular  one  for  this 
house.  The  income  would  therefore, 
supposedly,  be  about  $2500,  although  in 
Greater  New   York  people  with  $2000 


DRAWING  ROOM.    SHOWING  HALL  AND  DlNlNG-ROOM 


ONE  PRACTICE  HOUSE 


DRAWING-ROOM  FROM  ENTRANCE  H 


frequently  pay  as  much.  Throughout 
the  House  it  was  a  temptation  to  use  the 
resources  of  Pratt  Institute  in  designing 
and  making  furniture  and  hangings,  or 
in  selecting  wonderful  bargains  in  old 
furniture,  to  be  found  by  the  person  with 
the  requisite  knowledge  and  the  time  to 
"prowl"  in  the  small  second-hand  shops. 
But.  both  temptations  were  resisted,  in 
order  to  make  the  House  more  useful 
to  everyone.  It  is  not  possible  for  the 
visitor  to  say :  "It  is  all  very  well  for  you 
at  Pratt  Institute,  but  where  am  I  to 
find  such  things?"  The  typewritten  in- 
ventory, at  the  disposal  of  every  visitor, 
gives  names,  addresses  of  maker  or 
seller,  and  regular  retail  price  of  every 
article  bought  for  the  House,  The  little 
drawing-room  is  so  small  that,  for  the 
purposes  of  the  House,  it  was  necessary 
to  provide  more  seats  than  an  ordinary 
family  would  need,  so  a  bench  was  de- 
signed to  fit  in  under  the  shallow  bay 
window,  but  this  was  the  only  thing 
made  for  the  House.  And  even  here  the 
design  is  available  to  anyone  who  wishes 
to  use  it,  and  a  working  drawing  from 


which  any  carpenter  can  construct  the 
same  bench.  Hundreds  of  people  have 
taken  notes  of  names  and  addresses,  in 
the  three  years  the  House  has  been  in 
use,  and  there  is  nothing  about  the 
House  that  so  impresses  the  average  visi- 
tor as  the  many  bits  of  practical  infor- 
mation as  to  "where,"  and  "how"  and 
"why"  that  those  showing  it  are  always 
ready  to  offer.  The  House  is  also  to  the 
students  a  constant  illustration  of  the 
school  work  in  house  planning  and  fur- 
nishing, and  mistakes  as  well  as  suc- 
cesses are  made  clear  to  the  students, 
and,  indeed,  to  visitors. 

But  the  main  use  of  the  house  is  for 
the  housekeeping  experiment.  Before 
this  is  described,  a  little  more  should  be 
said  about  the  arrangement  of  the  house. 
The  first  floor  contains  a  drawing  room 
(IS'xlff),  a  dining  room  (14'x  15'),  a 
butler's  pantry,  and  a  kitchen  (It/xlS'). 
The  cellar  is  cemented  and  whitewashed, 
and  cont^iins  a  curtained  corner  for  stor- 
age of  trunks  and  extra  furniture,  a 
storeroom  for  household  supplies  (little 
used  because  of   special   conditions),  a 


102 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


toilet  and  the  laundry  equipment — set 
tubs,  two-burner  gas  stove,  ironing  table, 
racks,  and  the  rest.  The  cellar  has  an 
entrance  into  the  back  garden,  where,  of 
course,  the  laundry  is  dried.  The  second 
floor  has  a  sitting  room  (ICXxS')  for  the 
instructor  in  charge  of  the  house,  with  a 
small  bedroom  (8'S"x6'3")  adjoining,  a 
bedroom  (n'O-'xlCe")  for  the  second 
instructor  who  rooms  here,  in  order  that 
the  first  may  not  be  left  alone  over 
Sunday,  a  linen  closet,  a  bedroom 
(IZ'xlO'S")  for  two,  with  single  beds, 
with  a  writing  table  and  dressing  table 
as  well  as  a  chiffonier,  and  a  bathroom. 
The  top  floor  has  a  large  gabled  room 
(13'5"xl7')  across  the  front,  which  is 
known  as  the  "institutional"  room,  with 
painted  walls,  cork  carpet  on  the  floor, 
white  enameled  furniture,  and  four  nar- 
row white  beds,  all  in  a  row.  The  attic 
at  the  back  is  ventilated  by  a  skylight, 
and  an  extra  bath  has  been  put  here,  as 
too  many  people  are  in  the  house  for 
one  bathroom.  The  floor  of  the  whole 
attic  is  covered  with   cork  carpet,  and 


CORNER  OF  BBDROOU 


aside  from  the  bathroom  furnishings  it 
has  only  a  cedar  chest  for  blankets  and 
a  matting  box  for  clothing.  It  is  cer- 
tainly the  largest  bathroom  ever  known 
in  a  house  of  this  size ! 

As  has  already  been  stated,  two  in- 
structors live  at  the  House  and  when 
the  House  is  in  full  operation  {from 
January  to  April,  in  order  to  give  each 
student  her  experience,)  a  group  of  six 
students  comes  in  each  Monday  morning 
after  breakfast  and  stays  until  Saturday 
afternoon.  Groups  who  vote  to  do  so 
may  remain  over  Sunday,  but  this  is  not 
required.  The  group  receives  $20.  and 
must  buy  from  this  all  food  supplies, 
ice,  and  kitchen  cleaning  materials. 
Only  one  student  sits  at  the  table  for 
each  meal,  the  others  being  servants  for 
the  day,  while  she  is  hostess.  The  in- 
structor in  charge  is  always  at  the  table, 
and  there  are  two  guests.  Even  the  in- 
viting of  the  guests  is  part  of  the  prob- 
lem, as  all  must  be  asked  by  note,  and 
each  note  shown  to  the  instructor. 

A  brief  calculation  will  show  that  food 
has  to  be  provided  for  nine  people,  and 
for  sixteen  meals.  This  is  an  average  of 
nearly  I4c  a  meal,  although,  of  course, 
it  would  be  divided  differently — perhaps 
10c  for  breakfast,  12c  for  luncheon,  and 
20c  for  dinner.  Breakfast  must  have 
three  courses,  luncheon  three,  and  dinner 
four,  with  coffee.  It  is  a  constant  source 
of  wonder  to  those  who  visit  the  house 
that  such  good  meals  are  served,  with 
such  a  close  money  limitation.  The  in- 
structor in  charge  says  that  the  students 
do  it  by  wise  planning  of  the  use  of 
everything  edible.  Not  long  ago  one  of 
the  graduates  of  the  institutional  house- 
hold science  course  took  charge  of  the 
dining  room  of  a  school  of  over  five 
hundred  students  and,  when  she  had  been 
there  three  weeks,  the  man  holding  the 
contract  for  the  removal  of  garbage 
went  to  the  president  of  the  institution 
to  complain.  "See  here."  he  said.  "Since 
that  new  dining-room  manager  came  I 
don't  get  one-fifth  the  garbage  I've  al- 
ways had!"     Which  is  an   illuminating 


ONE  PRACTICE  HOUSE 


INSTRUCTOR'SSITTING-BOOM 


comment. 

There  are  certain  specifications  about 
the  week's  food,  such  as  that  waffles, 
griddle  cakes,  and  popovers  shall  be 
served  each  week,  at  least,  once,  that  all 
bread  shall  be  made,  that  there  shall  be 
two  frozen  desserts  and  one  layer  cake 
each  week,  but  apart  from  this  the  plan- 
ning of  the  menus  is  left  entirely  to  the 
students.  After  the  meal  has  been 
served  the  instructor  in  charge  makes  (in 
private)  any  criticisms  she  has  to  offer 
on  the  selection  of  food,  the  preparation, 
and  the  service.  Each  day's  meals  must 
be  well  balanced,  but  exact  calculations 
are  not  required  in  this  problem,  as  they 
are  not  necessary  in  the  house  ordinarily. 
A  typical  day's  menu  is  one  served  on 
Thursday,  March  13: 

Breakfast 

Grape   fruit 

Cream  of  Wheat       Sugar       Cream 

Bacon       Toast 

Coffee 

Luncheon 

Lentil    Soup 

Rtce-and-meat  mold  Bread 

Orange   Cakes       Orange   Sauce 

Tea 

Dinner 

Oyster  Cocktail 

Planked  Steak      Duchess  Potatoes 


Escaloped  Onions      StulTed  Peppers 

Cress -and- Cheese  Salad 

Ginger  Cream 

Coffee 

Each  group  takes  the  inventory  of 
kitchen  and  dining-room  at  the  begin- 
ning and  end  of  the  week.  Each  keeps 
exact  accounts,  which  must  be  handed  in. 

The  group  duties  are  divided  as  fol- 
lows: hostess,  cook,  kitchen  maid,  wait- 
ress, chambermaid,  and  laundress.  Each 
member  of  the  group  assumes  each  of 
these  positions  for  one  day.  The  hostess 
receives  guests,  sits  at  the  table  as  host- 
ess, does  the  marketing,  and  in  other 
ways  fulfills  the  duties  and  exercises  the 
privileges  of  the  mistress  of  the  house. 
The  cook  prepares  all  food,  and  directs 
the  kitchen  maid,  who  assists  her.  The 
waitress  serves  the  meals,  washes  the 
dishes  from  the  dining-room,  prepares 
butter  balls  and  salads,  answers  the 
door-bell,  except  at  meal  times,  and 
cleans  the  first  floor,  except  the  kitchen. 
The  chambermaid  does  all  cleaning  on 
the  second  and  third  floors.  The  cleaning 
is  arranged  in  a  series  of  special  tasks, 
whose  accomplishment  keeps  the  house 
in  as  nearly  perfect  condition  as  it  is 


104 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


possible  to  keep  such  a  house  in  a  city. 

The  entire  work  of  the  House  is  done 
by  the  group.  But  the  atmosphere  of 
the  House,  speaking  psychologically,  is 
quite  as  delightful  as  its  spotlessness  and 
order.  The  spirit  of,  hospitality  reigns. 
Occasion  has  often  arisen  to  ask  extra 
guests  to  luncheon  or  dinner,  when  visi- 
tors have  appeared  unexpectedly  at  the 
School,  and  at  such  times  the  offer  is 
always  made  to  add  the  proper  amount 
to  the  budget  for  the  week,  but  the  stu- 
dents have  always  refused  such  offers, 
and  have  stretched  the  $20  to  cover  just 
a  little  more.  Early  in  the  life  of  the 
House  it  was  found  necessary  to  confine 
visitors  to  one  day  of  the  week,  in  order 
not  to  interrupt  the  students  too  much, 
and  Friday  afternoon  was  chosen.  A 
few  weeks  after  this  was  started,  the 
students  asked  if  they  might  not  serve 
tea  to  those  who  came.  They  explained 
that  it  seemed  so  inhospitable  not  to  of- 
fer refreshments,  and  that  they  could 
easily  provide  it  on  the  budget.  So  tea 
is  regularly  served.    From  ten  to  twenty 


visitors  are  expected  every  Friday,  and, 
on  an  average,  every  other  Friday  some 
special  group  is  asked,  either  of  students, 
instructors,  alumnae,  or  neighbors.  No 
group  has  ever  exceeded  its  budget,  and 
every  group  this  year  has  had  a  balance 
of  from  ten  to  thirty-five  cents. 

When  the  regular  work  of  the  House 
is  not  going  on,  several  students  live 
there,  who  receive  their  room  in  return 
for  keeping  the  house  in  order.  No 
cooking  is  done  in  the  House  at  this 
time,  except  as  special  luncheons,  dinners 
or  teas  are  given.  These  are  frequent, 
and  the  Alumnae  Associations  are  al- 
ways especially  welcome.  To  make  a 
real  home  as  part  of  a  school,  and  with 
a  constantly  changing  family,  is  difficult, 
yet  in  a  way  it  has  been  accomplished  at 
the  Practice  House  of  the  Pratt  Institute 
School  of  Household  Science  and  Arts. 
The  alumnae  and  the  graduating  classes 
make  gifts  to  the  House,  and  feel  both 
pride  in  it  and  that  sense  of  ownership 
that  comes  only  with  a  real  personal 
relation.  An  Instructor. 


INSTITUTIONAL-ROOM,  HAVING  FOUR  BEDS 


How  Miss  Janet  Grew  Young 


By  Alix  Thom 


IT  was  the  yellow  Angora  that  be- 
gan it,  yes,  that  wrought  the  mi- 
racle, and  the  yellow  Angora 
never  knew  it.  But  this  little  story 
begins  before  ever  the  Angora  came  to 
stay  at  Meadowville  with  Miss  Janet. 

One  October  morning  Miss  Janet 
Farrington,  wealthy  spinster,  gave  a 
quick  glance  out  of  the  library  win- 
dow by  which  she  was  sitting,  and 
then  called  shrilly  to  her  maid: 

"Mary,  run  right  out  and  send  those 
children  home,  they  will  surely  break 
the  hedge  if  they  press  so  hard  against 
it.  Oh,  why  must  a  family  with  young 
children  move  next  door  to  me." 

The  voice  of  the  obedient  Mary 
could  be  heard  a  moment  later,  rising 
high  above  the  protesting  childish 
tones — "Well,  I  can't  help  it,  Miss 
Janet  says  you  must  go  right  out  of 
the  yard.  Fm  sorry  if  you  can't  find 
it,  but  you  shouldn't  play  so  near  our 
hedge." 

"  'Twas  a  ball  that  was  lost,"  ex- 
plained Mary  as  she  passed  through 
the  room,  "the  little  Burnett  boy, 
Jacky  is  his  name,  cried,  Mam;  'twas 
a  new  ball  I  think,  from  what  his  sis- 
ter said." 

"Well,  well,"  and  Miss  Janet  bent 
over  her  writing,  "I  cannot  have  them 
trampling  over  my  lawn,  like  young 
colts." 

She  shook  her  head  severely  at  two 
small  girls  who  lingered  near  the  ter- 
race, on  their  way  to  school,  as  she 
went  out  to  do  her  marketing. 

"Hurry  along,  children,"  she  called, 
"hurry  along,"  and  hurry  along  they 
did,  cheeks  pinker,  and  casting  sur- 
prised backward  looks  at  the  tall  lady 
in  the  blue  gown  whose  hair  was  plen- 
tifully sprinkled  with  gray,  and  whose 
firm  lips  seemed  to  have  forgotten  how 
to  smile. 


«' 


*tTf. 


The  very  next  morning  it  was  that 
Miss  Janet  received  a  letter  that  so 
surprised  her  that  she  read  it  once, 
read  it  quite  through  again,  and  then 
called  in  Mary,  her  long-time  maid,  to 
read  -it  to  her.  "Listen,  Mary,  will 
you,"  she  began,  "for  the  news,  the  as- 
tonishing news  this  letter  contains 
eflFects  you,  too,  listen!" 

And  this  was  the  letter  that  caused 
such  consternation  in  the  stately  old 
brown  house,  that  October  morning, 
when  all  the  world  seemed  red  and 
gold,  and  the  sun,  shining  through 
gaily-tinted  leaves,  gave  the  effect  of 
stained  glass  windows. 
My  very  dear  Janet — 
I'm  sending  you,  I  have  sent  you, 
for  the  expressman  has  just  driven 
away  with  the  box,  the  dearest  yellow 
Angora  kitten,  five  months  old,  who 
rejoices  in  a  glorious  tail,  large  eyes 
and  the  beginnings  of  a  ruff  which 
bids  fair  to  be  a  very  splendid  one.  I 
own  his  mother,  Lady  Goldie,  and  I 
can  assure  you  that  he  is  a  very  pedi- 
greed pussie.  I  didn't  wait  to  ask  you 
if  you  wanted  him,  for  no  one  could 
help  but  want  such  a  yellow  Angora. 

"The  cat  book  I  am  mailing  you  will 
tell  you  about  his  feeding;  follow  it 
and  you  will  have  no  trouble.  He 
should  make  a  fine  large  cat,  perhaps 
he  will  weigh  fifteen  pounds,  yet.  I 
feel  sure  both  you  and  Mary  will  take 
him  to  your  hearts,  and  I  wanted  him 
to  have  just  such  a  good  home. 

"Accept  with  much  affection,  this 
dearest  pussie,  and  believe  me, 

"Your  loving  cousin, 

"LENA. 
"P.  S.     His  name  is  Alladin,  and 
he's  due  to  arrive  Thursday." 

"Mary,  oh  Mary,  what  shall  we  do!" 
cried  Miss   Janet   helplessly,  "a   kitten 
and  an  Angora  one  at  that,  coming  to 
105 


106 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


this  house  as  fast  as  the  train  can 
bring  it.  If  it  isn't  just  like  Lena 
Bullard,"  she  said  more  to  herself  than 
to  her  domestic,  "always  doing  the  un- 
expected. Mary,  why,  "turning  a 
troubled  face  to  the  girl's  flushed  one, 
"I  haven't  had  a  pet  in  years,  as  you 
know.  I  was  fond  of  cats  when  I  was 
a  young  girl  at  home,  but  the  care  of 
a  blooded  cat,  its  terrible." 

"And  today  is  Wednesday,"  was 
Mary's  discouraging  reply,  "sure  he'll 
be  here  in  no  time,  this  Angola,  if 
that's  what  you  call  him." 

"Angora,"  repeated  Miss  Janet,  pa- 
tiently, "my  cousin  says  she  has  named 
him  Alladin;  what  an  outlandish  name 
for  a  cat." 

Mary's  face  grew  reminiscently 
cheerful,  as  she  turned  to  leave  the 
room — "I  remember  the  young  cats  in 
the  barn,  that  I  played  with  when  I 
was  but  a  child  on  the  farm,  and  how 
they  would  act,  the  troop  of  'em,  as  if 
they  tried  to  tear  the  hayloft  to 
pieces." 

"Mary,  Mary,"  and  Miss  Janet  fairly 
turned  pale,  "what  won't  a  kitten  do  to 
this  house!  Lace  curtains,  rugs,  bric- 
a-brac,  and  oh,"  with  a  hopeless  wave 
of  her  hands  that  took  in  the  library, 
the  prim  parlor  beyond,  and  the  dining 
room  across  the  hall,  "think  of  it,  fif- 
teen pounds,  did  she  say?.  Why,  we 
might  as  well  keep  a  dog." 

The  book  on  cats,  arrived  in  the  first 
delivery  next  morning,  was  despair- 
ingly perused  by  Miss  Janet,  and  then 
handed  over  to  Mary  to  read. 

The  morning  paner  that  lay  folded 
by  her  plate  at  breakfast  gave  a 
lengthy  account  of  the  cat  show  then 
being  held  in  New  York,  and  dis- 
played pictures  of  the  fluffy  prize  win- 
ners. Miss  Janet  had  never  before  felt 
enough  interest  in  the  subject  to  ex- 
amine such  accounts,  but  now  she  ad- 
justed her  glasses,  and  painstakingly 
studied  the  awe-inspiring  lists  of  pedi- 
greed pets,  and  their  hyphenated 
names. 


At  noon,  a  short  sharp  bark,  sound- 
ing under  her  window,  caused  her  to 
look  out,  and  she  saw  a  fleeing  black 
and  white  cat,  scurrying  across  the 
next  yard,  pursued  by  a  fat  fox  terrier 
who  stood  small  chance  of  catching 
up  with  his  nimble  quarry.  Suppose, 
she  asked  herself,  suppose  that  cat  had 
been  her  yellow  Angora,  what  then, 
oh,  what  then! 

Slowly  the  day  passed,  every  roll  of 
wheels  near  the  house  she  was  sure 
was  the  express  wagon,  bringing  her 
the  undesired  pet.  Five  times  had  she 
hurried  to  the  front  door,  only  to  see 
some  delivery  wagon,  passing  leisurely 
along.  But  it  was  nearly  dinner  time 
that  Mary  knocked  at  Miss  Janet's 
door,  and  managed  to  ejaculate,  "Oh 
Mam^  it's  come,  it's  here,  the  Angola. 
The  expressman,  he  says,  where'U  he 
take  the  box !" 

Outwardly  calm,  her  mistress  de- 
scended the  stairs,  directed  that  the 
box  be  set  down  in  the  library,  and 
waited  while  the  trembling  Mary 
wrenched  off  one  of  the  slats,  and  out 
stepped  a  thankful,  much  traveled 
pussie,  who  stretched  his  yellow  paws, 
mewed  softly,  then  threw  himself  in  a 
tumbled  heap  at  the  feet  of  his  new 
owner. 

"Well,  he  is  cunning,"  remarked 
that  lady  grudgingly,  "and  see,  Mary," 
touching  his  roughened  coat  with  one 
slim  hand,  "see,  how  soft  his  fur  is!" 

Mary,  predestined  to  be  his  bond 
slave,  was  down  on  her  knees  before 
him,  stroking  the  very  appreciative 
Alladin,  and  talking  to  him  as  if  he 
were  in  truth  a  frightened  child. 

"You  poor  little  fellah,  you  poor  An- 
gola, and  are  you  done  up!  So  you 
are.  And  what  shall  we  give  him  for 
his  supper.  Mam!  Sure  his  little 
stomach  must  be  empty  enough." 

"Scalded  milk  with  bread  or  cereal, 
the  book  says,"  quoted  Miss  Janet  as  if 
she  were  reciting  a  lesson,  "a  small 
portion  of  boiled  meat  cut  up  in  small 
pieces,    at    noon,    and    more    milk,    at 


HOW  MISS  JANET  GREW  YOUNG 


107 


night.  Puppy  biscuit  is  always  safe. 
Diet  to  be  enlarged  as  he  grows  older. 
Hasn't  he  an  intelligent  face,  Mary, 
very  different  from  an  ordinary  cat. 
Notice  his  eyes !" 

**Yes,  sir,  you  are  different,"  said 
Mary,  gathering  him  up  in  kind  arms 
and  bearing  him  oflF  to  the  kitchen, 
stroking  his  fat  yellow  paws  as  she 
went,  while  the  Angora's  reply  to  all  her 
attentions  was  a  series  of  deep  breathed 
purrs. 

That  night,  Alladin  slept  peacefully 
on  the  chintz-covered  window-seat  in 
Miss  Janet's  bed  room,  and  next  morn- 
ing, after  his  modest  breakfast,  started 
on  a  tour  of  the  house,  exhibiting  the 
most  shocking  curiosity  over  even  the 
most  obscure  closets.  But  it  was  the 
day  after  his  arrival  that  his  kittenship 
began  to  discover  that  an  alluring  out- 
doors lay  beyond  the  fast  closed  win- 
dows. An  out-doors  where  little  mis- 
chievous breezes  tossed  unwary  yellow 
and  crimson  leaves,  in  tantalizing 
fashion,  across  lawns,  into  corners  of 
flower  beds,  and  over  hedges,  and  he 
longed  with  all  his  kitten  heart  to  join 
the  play.  Why,  he  asked  himself, 
should  he  be  condemned  to  dull  unin- 
teresting rooms,  when  all  these  sur- 
prising happenings  were  going  on 
about  him?  And  he  scratched  on  the 
pane  with  one  foolish  ineffectual  paw. 

"Oh,  Mary,"  cried  Miss  Janet,  her 
hand  involuntarily  straying  to  Al- 
ladin's  downy  head,  "the  poor  thing 
wants  to  go  out.  When  can  we  let 
him  in  the  yard?  He  is  so  young,  so 
very  young,  you  know,  Mary." 

"I  might  try  him  out  in  the  back 
yard  this  afternoon.  Mam,"  was  the 
reply.    "He's  got  to  get  wonted." 

And  take  him  out  she  did,  and  Al- 
ladin, escaping  from  her  detaining 
clasp,  rushed  delightedly  forth,  evi- 
dently eager  for  new  yards  to  conquer, 
for  he  made  a  quick  dive  under  the 
hedge,  emerging  triumphant  in  the 
next  yard. 

Out  hurried  Miss  Janet,  in  answer  to 


0 

Mary's  frightened  call,  but  before  she 
could  skirt  the  hedge,  a  childish  voice 
called  from  behind  the  green  barrier, 
"Here's  your  kittie.  Miss  Janet,  1 
caught  him,"  and  the  little  brown-eyed 
Burnett  girl,  smiling  shyly,  came  up 
the  steps,  her  arms  filled  by  a  strug- 
gling yellow  kitten.  Impetuously  the 
child  pressed  a  swift  kiss  upon  the 
head  of  the  Angora,  and  handed  him  to 
his  owner. 

"Thank  you,  child,"  said  Miss  Janet 
graciously,  adding,  quite  to  her  own 
surprise,  "come  over  and  see  my  pus- 
sie,  some  day." 

"Oh,  I  will,"  glowed  the  small 
neighbor,  "I  guess  I  never  saw  such  a 
beautiful  kittie  cat." 

"That's  a  kind,  bright  little  girl, 
Mary,"  was  Miss  Janet's  comment,  as 
they  entered  the  house. 

"But,"  and  the  astonished  Mary 
opened  her  blue  eyes  wide,  "  'tis  one  of 
those  Burnett  children,  Jackie's  sister." 

Her  mistress  had  gone  into  the  din- 
ing room,  so  possibly  did  not  hear  the 
remark. 

The  week  following,  Alladin  escap- 
ing from  Miss  Janet,  frolicked  away 
to  the  wide  alluring  street,  and  spying 
an  approaching  terrier,  climbed  a  near- 
by tree,  as  handily  as  any  unpedigreed 
feline  might.  Once  up  in  the  mysteri- 
ous, sheltering  branches,  he  refused  to 
come  down,  though  the  dog  had  peace- 
fully trotted  away,  mounting  higher, 
and  ever  higher. 

Tommie  Drayton,  Knight-errant, 
aged  eleven,  from  his  piazza,  four 
houses  below,  viewed  the  tragedy,  and 
sauntered  over  to  see  what  might  be 
done  for  an  evidently  distressed  lady. 

"Aw,  that's  nothing,"  he  observed, 
as  he  swung  himself  up  into  the  tree, 
and  speedily  brought  down  Alladin, 
trembling,  yet  ready  for  more  adven- 
tures, as  is  the  way  of  kittens. 

"That  is  a  nice  boy,  Mary,  a  promis- 
ing one,"  remarked  Miss  Janet,  as  she 
deposited  the  kitten  in  the  largest 
chair  in  the  library,  "I  must  give  him 


108 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


sohie  pears  from  the  tree  by  the  grape- 
vine, they  are  unusually  fine,  this  year. 
I  remember  my  brothers  loved  pears 
when  they  were  youngsters — " 

And  Mary  didn't  smile  until  she 
reached  her  familiar  kitchen  ways. 

Little  Katherine,  from  across  the 
way,  found  Alladin,  next  afternoon, 
wandering  unconcernedly  down  the 
side  street,  evidently  headed  for  the 
business  section  of  the  town,  and  tuck- 
ing him  securely  under  her  arm,  re- 
turned him  to  his  unappreciated  home. 
Poor  Miss  Janet  was  on  the  lawn  call- 
ing for  her  missing  pet. 

"Why,  why,  you  dear  child,  it's  very 
good  of  you  to  take  this  trouble.  I  am 
so  afraid  he  will  get  lost,"  she  said, 
holding  out  her  arms  for  the  yellow 
Angora,  "I  don't  know  how  I  could 
get  along  without  you  children.  Yes, 
certainly,  go  in  and  have  a  play  with 
him,  if  you  want  to." 

Gradually  Miss  Janet's  viewpoint 
was  changing.  Now,  when  she  met 
her  young  neighbors  in  the  street,  she 
smiled  in  answer  to  their  smiles. 
Sometimes  a  little  boy  or  girl  would 
hurry  to  catch  up  with  her,  and  why 
not,  when  they  always  desired  to  talk 
of  Alladin!  And  often,  in  the  days 
that  followed,  she  would  find  a  child 
in  her  yard,  watching  the  graceful  kit- 
ten, as  he  leapt  lightly  for  elusive  but- 
terflies or  birds. 

Alladin,  as  Mary  expressed  it,  was  at 
last  getting  wonted,  and  could  be  safe- 
ly left  to  his  own  desires,  as  said  de- 
sires were  generally  to  play  in  his  own 
or  nearby  yards. 

And  then  one  day,  a  Saturday  it 
was,  the  yellow  Angora  was  missing. 
Miss  Janet  had  not  seen  him  since 
breakfast,  and  Mary  was  sure  that  she 
hadn't  had  a  look  at  him,  in  a  good 
four  hours.  Vainly  they  called  from 
doors  and  windows,  from  the  yard, 
looked  up  and  down  the  street,  and 
Mary  finally  decided  to  announce  the 
loss  to  the  small  Burnetts,  who  would 
be  sure  to  give  a  general  alarm.    They 


made  haste  to  inform  the  startled 
neighborhood,  and  out  flocked  the 
children  over  to  Miss  Janet,  inquiring, 
condoling,  mourning  with  her,  and 
then  forming  themselves  into  search 
parties  scattered  in  all  directions.  But 
to  no  avail.  Miss  Janet  wept  secretly, 
and  Mary  openly.  Unrebuked,  the 
children  trooped  over  Miss  Janet's  vel- 
vety lawn,  for  were  they  not  searching 
for  the  dear  lost  Alladin?  Unregard- 
ed, they  pushed  through  openings  in 
the  trim  hedges,  rung  the  door-bell 
numberless  times,  left  the  prints  of 
small,  dusty  shoes  on  the  tidy  piazza, 
finger-prints  on  the  French  windows, 
and  Miss  Janet  never  minded. 

Two  hours  after,  Mary  discovered 
the  missing  Angora,  sound  asleep  in 
the  linen  closet,  at  the  back  of  the 
house,  unmindful  of  the  anxiety  he 
had  caused.  Miss  Janet  recalled  put- 
ting away  some  towels  soon  after  do- 
ing her  marketing,  and  he  must  have 
followed  her  in,  only  to  find  himself 
a  captive  among  the  piles  of  lavender- 
scented  linen. 

Convulsively  his  mistress  embraced 
him,  whispering  to  the  still  drowsy 
Alladin,  that  he  was  a  very  naughty 
pussie  to  so  frighten  them  all. 

Why,  he  was  more  precious  than 
ever,  this  pet  of  hers,  since  the  fright 
he  had  given  them. 

From  her  piazza  she  addressed  the 
forlorn  group  of  weary  children,  who, 
having  given  up  the  hunt,  had  re- 
turned to  report  their  failure. 

"He's  here,  Alladin  has  been  found. 
He  was  all  this  time  shut  in  the  linen 
closet  up  stairs,  peacefully  taking  a 
nap,  while  we've  been  searching  for 
him.  But,  oh,  children,  I  do  thank  you 
for  the  way  you  have  helped  me.  Al- 
ladin would  thank  you,  too,  if  he 
could.  I  am  sure  that  he  loves  you  all, 
and  dears,  I  want  to  tell  you  that  I 
am  going  to  give  you  a  party,  a  week 
from  today,  a  really  splendid  party, 
with  a  Jack  Horner  pie,  music,  games, 
ice  cream  and  the  rest,  and  I  thall  ex* 


EFFICIENCY  IN  HOME  MAKING 


109 


pcct  you  all.  The  yellow  Angora  will. 
I  am  sure,  help  entertain  my  com- 
pany." 

"We'd  love  to  come,  Miss  Janet," 
they  cried,  their  happy  faces  raised  to 
hers,  and  away  they  trooped,  talking 
of  the  joys  to  come. 

So  this  is    how    Miss    Janet    grew 


young,  how  the  stone  rolled  away 
from  her  cold  stern  heart,  how  love 
and  gentleness  stole  in,  and  little  chil- 
dren's lives  began  to  touch  hers.  All 
because  of  a  yellow  Angora;  yes,  it 
was  the  yellow  Angora  that  wrought 
the  miracle.  Who  can  foresee  the  mys- 
terious influence  of  small  things? 


Efficiency  in  Home-Making 

By  Fannie  Wilder  Brown 


IF  we  watch  an  efficient  machine  in 
action,  we  shall  see  that  each  part 
is  designed  to  accomplish  its  office 
with  as  little  unnecessary  motion,  and 
as  little  friction,  as  possible.  We  shall 
see  that  the  value  of  the  whole  ma- 
chine depends  upon  its  ability  to  pro- 
duce creditable  work,  useful  or  orna- 
mental, with  as  little  waste  of  material 
and  of  power  as  possible.  We  women 
boast  of  our  brains,  and  claim  to  be 
self-directive  and  self-adjusting.  We 
are  seeking  to  enlarge  our  "sphere"  in 
every  direction,  to  get  out  of  the  ruts 
we  have  been  in  so  long,  to  be  "more 
than  a  mere  machine,"  to  share  in  the 
task  of  steering  the  Ship  of  State,  of 
helping  to  rule  in  National  affairs.  We 
claim  the  right  to  vote. 

While  we  are  clamoring  so  loudly 
for  increased  responsibilities,  do  we 
not  find  ourselves  face  to  face  with  the 
question.  How  have  we  succeeded  with 
the  responsibilities  and  opportunities 
we  have  had  for  so  long?  Can  we 
avoid  secretly  guaging  our  ability  to 
do  more  by  applying  the  efficiency  test 
to  what  we  have  been  accomplishing — 
or  not  accomplishing — as  makers  of 
homes?  For  the  sake  of  illustration, 
suppose  we  watch  a  printing  press  or 
a  steam  engine  awhile,  and  compare 
results.  How  much  of  the  work  we  do 
would  be  creditable  to  a  first-class  ma- 
chine, and  how  about  our  waste  of 
material,     waste     of     power,     poorly 


adapted  and  poorly  adjusted  means  to 
ends?    How  about  friction? 

The  Japanese  have  a  proverb,  "If 
you  know  how,  it  is  easy.  If  it  is  hard, 
you  don't  know  how."  Isn't  a  large 
part  of  our  domestic  problem  involved 
in  the  fact  that  we  don't  yet  know  how 
to  keep  house,  how  to  be  altogether 
satisfactory  wives  and  mothers,  in 
short,  how  to  make  a  home? 

If  we  choose  any  other  career,  we 
expect  to  take  time  to  be  taught  its 
principles  and  to  practise  them  until 
we  have  won  skill,  and  then  to  serve  a 
sort  of  apprenticeship,  at  a  low  wage, 
to  acquire  experience,  proficiency,  be- 
fore daring  to  pose  as  capable  of  earn- 
ing full  pay;  and  a  position  of  man- 
ager or  director  is  (or  should  be)  se- 
cured only  by  achieving  unusual  skill 
and  executive  ability  long  after  all  the 
details  of  the  business  or  profession 
have  become  automatic. 

We  marry  a  man  earning  say  from 
twenty-five  to  fifty  dollars  a  week  (be 
it  more  or  less,  the  principle  is  the 
same),  and  are  justly  indignant  if  any- 
body hints  that  we  are  not  his  intel- 
lectual equal ;  but  when  we  first  begin 
to  keep  house,  most  of  us  prove  to  be 
so  poorly  trained  for  our  share  of 
home-making  that  we  can't  begin  to 
run  the  place  as  well  as  a  maid-of-all- 
work  whom  we  think  we  ought  to  be 
able  to  hire  for  five  dollars  a  week  and 
her  room  and  board  I 


no 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


We  come  to  a  certain  (or  uncertain) 
amount  of  efficiency,  sooner  or  later, 
in  most  cases,  through  failure  and 
tears  and  agony  and  many  a  ship- 
wreck, but  the  point  being  considered 
is  this:  We  require  men  to  qualify 
themselves  for  their  life-work  and  get 
a  start  in  it,  require  them  to  demon- 
strate their  competence,  before  they 
undertake  to  win  us  as  wives,  and  we 
are  not  playing  a  fair  game  unless  we 
qualify  ourselves  and  demonstrate  our 
competence  for  our  kind  of  work  as 
well,  before  we  accept  the  position. 

If  we  undertook  any  other  business, 
with  such  lack  of  efficiency,  we  should 
soon  be  discharged,  and  that  with 
scant  courtesy.  Is  it  any  wonder  that, 
sometimes,  we  are  discharged?  The 
wonder  is  how  seldom,  if  ever,  we  real- 
ize that  this  is  what  has  happened  to 
us !  Far  oftener  than  being  discharged, 
we  desert  our  post.  We  act  like  a  self- 
ish or  a  sulky  youngster  who  doesn't 
understand  a  game,  or  who  won't 
abide  by  its  rules.  He  rushes  from  the 
playground  home  to  his  mamma,  bawl- 
ing back  over  his  shoulder,  "I  won't 
play  with  you  any  more,  so  now,  boo- 
hoo!  boo-hoo!"  If  his  mother  is  wise, 
she  tells  him  to  be  a  man,  and  go  back 
and  learn  to  play  his  game,  but  those 
of  us  who  are  deserters  from  the  game 
of  life  seldom  have  wise  mothers  at 
our  backs.  We  sulk  and  grieve  in  idle- 
ness, or  think  we  are  brave  if  we  brace 
up  and  try  to  find  another  partner,  or 
try  to  take  up  some  other  sport.  We 
blame  the  partner  we  have  had,  though 
he  may  have  been  the  one  man  in  all 
the  world  to  us,  for  our  unfortunate 
failure,  instead  of  inquiring  how  much 
of  the  trouble  was  due  to  friction,  and 
realizing  that  friction  shows  a  machine 
to  be  in  poor  condition  or  poorly 
adapted  to  its  use. 

Do  you  dispute  this?  Are  we  as  a 
whole,  or  are  any  large  number  of  us, 
who  are  home-makers,  women  whose 
works  praise  us  in  the  gates,  women 
whose    children    rise   up    and    call    us 


blessed,  women  in  whom  the  hearts  of 
our  husbands  may  safely  trust? 

We  notice  that  our  husband  does  not 
sweep  out  his  store  or  office,  doesn't 
answer  his  doorbell  and  telephone, 
doesn't  attend  to  his  own  routine  work, 
and  we  understand  that  he  is  too  val- 
uable a  man  to  do  those  things  for 
himself,  understand  that  it  is  for  the 
interests  of  his  business  that  his  time 
and  skill  shall  be  used  to  better  advan- 
tage. But  the  chances  are  that  he  had 
no  help  until  he  had  made  his  time 
worth  enough  so  that  he  could  afford 
to  hire  the  drudgery  done.  This  is  not 
a  case  of  leaving  disagreeable  work  to 
be  done  by  another,  not  a  case  of  feel- 
ing above  sweeping  floors  and  wash- 
ing windows.  It  is  a  case  of  having 
developed  ability  to  be  of  greater  use 
by  exercising  oneself  in  some  other 
way. 

If,  as  home-makers,  we  can  put  our- 
selves to  more  valuable  uses,  can  at- 
tain better  results,  greater  efficiency, 
by  hiring  the  rougher  parts  of  our 
work  done'  by  some  one  whose  muscles 
are  her  most  efficient  part,  by  all 
means  let  us  do  so,  for  her  sake  as  well 
as  for  our  own.  This  is  exactly  as  a 
stronger  bar  of  iron  is  used  to  bear  a 
heavier  strain  in  a  complex  machine, 
while  a  highly  tempered  bit  of  steel 
serves  a  different  purpose,  and  a  rod 
of  polished  brass  a  third.  But  if  we 
substitute  hired  help,  not  in  order  to 
serve  the  home  better  by  doing  more 
skilled  work,  but  because  we  are  in- 
capable of  doing  even  cheap  work ;  and 
if,  having  put  another  in  our  place,  we 
use  our  time  and  strength  and  abili- 
ties outside  of  our  awn  especial  prov- 
ince, the  home,  or  if  we  waste  our- 
selves idly, — well,  we  can  imagine 
what  would  have  happened  to  our  hus- 
band's business,  if  he  had  attempted  to 
carry  it  on  in  any  such  way  as  that! 
If  our  sons  never  marry,  if  our  daugh- 
ters elope  with  the  chauffeur,  and  if 
our  husbands  find  an  affinity,  we  shall 
have  only  ourselves  to  blame 


AN  AUGUST  SONG 


111 


Many  a  woman  feels  that  her  ability 
does  not  lie  along  the  line  of  domestic 
accomplishment,  feels  that  she  can  serve 
the  interests  of  the  home  better  by  hiring 
help  and  earning  money  outside  of  its 
walls  than  by  making  herself  proficient 
in  the  multiplex  duties  she  must  master 
in  looking  well  to  the  ways  of  her  house- 
hold. The  keenest  observers,  however, 
agree  unanimously  that,  under  normal 
conditions,  no  amount  of  money  an  aver- 
age woman  can  earn  makes  up  for  the 
loss  of  her  personal  presence  in  the 
home,  either  carrying  on  or  directing 
the  processes  necessary  to  the  well-being 
of  its  inmates.  If  she  has  sufficient  e3t- 
ecutive  ability  to  do  this  well,  producing 
results  of  as  high  a  class  as  would  be 
demanded  of  her  by  any  other  business 
or  profession  she  might  engage  in,  and 
if,  in  addition  to  all  this,  she  has  time  and 
energy  and  skill  to  use  elsewhere,  before 
she  diverts  her  superfluous  ability  away 
from  her  family  and  home,  let  her  ask 
how  she  shall  use  the  money  she  earns? 

Most  of  us  work  like  the  Irishman 
who  was  out  in  a  pouring  rain  digging  a 
ditch  in  the  mud.  Asked  why  he  was 
doing  it,  he  replied,  "Begorry,  I'm  dig- 
gin'  the  ditch  to  earn  money  to  buy 
bread  to  give  me  strength  to  dig  the 
ditch."  We  earn  money  to  buy  food  to 
gain  strength  to  earn  more  money,  in 
an  unceasing  round,  and  if  by  an  unex- 


pected  or  unusual  turn  of  Fortune's 
wheel  we  reach  the  lone  peak  whence  we 
cry  "I  have  enough ;  I  will  now  sit  down 
and  enjoy  it,"  straightway  we  find  our- 
selves in  the  clutches  of  Nemesis.  We 
can't  be  easy  sitting  still  for  five  minutes, 
and  no  capacity  for  enjoyment  is  to  be 
found  in  all  that  remains  of  our  money- 
breeding  lives. 

When  we  women  shall  have  gained 
equal  suffrage,  and  established  a  single 
standard  of  morality,  and  righted  the 
wrongs  of  our  horribly  unjust  industrial 
conditions,  and  seen  to  it  that  all  have 
equal  opportunities  and  living  wages, 
how  little  danger  is  to  be  feared  of  our 
not  making  money  enough  to  live  com- 
fortably upon,  of  our  not  being  able  to 
rise  to  unimagined  heights  of  material 
prosperity  I  But  look  at  the  way  we  are 
rushing  into  business  and  into  profes- 
sional life,  look  at  the  reluctance  of  men 
to  undertake  the  maintenance  of  a  home, 
in  the  face  of  the  swift  evolution  of  our 
sex,  and  look  at  the  flooded  divorce 
courts,  strewn  with  wrecks  of  homes  of 
every  class  and  every  description,  and 
then  figure  our  comparative  ability  to 
make  a  success  of  our  homes  1  There 
lies  the  fate  of  love  and  life,  the  biggest 
problem  our  sex  has  to  face,  the  gravest 
danger  to  our  Nation,  and  the  future  of 
our  children's  children — the  existence  of 
the  race. 


An  August  Song 

Soft  blow  the  winds,  dear  heart, 

Sweet  is  the  garden's  bloom; 
Come,  shall  we  steal  apart 

Into  the  sheltered  gloom. 
Soft  are  your  hands  and  white, 

Your  lips  are  the  roses'  hue, 
Close  in  my  arms  tonight, 

Dear,  I  shall  cuddle  you. 

Fair  are  the  stars  and  bright. 

Lightly  the  dew  drops  fall, 
Naught  shall  thy  dreams  afright. 

Fondly  the  night  birds  call. 
Rippling  the  brooklet  wends. 

Heavens  are  blue  above, 
Sleep  while  thy  mother  tends, 

Baby,  my  own,  my  love. 

L.  M.  Thornton. 


The  Golden  Years 


By  Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson 


AROUSED  by  the  friendly  touch 
of  modernity,  the  present-day 
Sleeping  Beauty  has  awakened 
and  we  who  are  beginning  to  accustom 
our  vision  to  all  sorts  of  marvelous 
sights  are  not  surprised  to  find  that  she 
is  a  creature  of  maturity, — ^a  woman 
strengthened  and  glorified  by  experience. 

A  pet  feminine  fallacy  has  perished 
and  Madame  Middle-Age,  who  once  so 
graciously  tendered  the  palm  of  the 
Golden  years  to  Youth  and  then  went 
"away  back  and  sat  down,"  has  at  last 
swung  open  the  gates  of  her  shut-in 
country  and  come  into  the  realm  where 
dreams  come  true. 

It  isn't  so  very  long  ago  that  the  wom- 
an entering  the  blessed  state  of  matri- 
mony felt  constrained  to  surrender  all 
ambitions  save  those  bounded  by  the 
four  walls  of  domesticity. 

Who  cannot  recall,  at  random,  count- 
less clever  young  matrons  who  in  laying 
away  the  wedding  gowns  and  bridal 
bouquets  made  the  mistake  of  folding  in 
their  individualities?  She  who  was 
gifted  with  originality  of  expression,  un- 
der pressure  of  new  tasks,  laid  by  a 
promising  quill,  the  musician  allowed 
her  nimble  fingers  to  stiffen,  and  the  art- 
ist forgot  her  brushes.  Into  the  gigantic 
slot  machine  of  matrimony  each  dropped 
a  promising  talent  and  then,  somehow, 
the  springs  of  inspiration  ceased  to  work, 
and  all  for  the  want  of  a  little  persistent 
effort ! 

Not  so  with  the  woman  who  has  cher- 
ished her  pet  ambitions,  who  has  let  no 
barrier  of  selfishness  or  indifference  bar 
her  from  the  full  cultivation  of  her  per- 
sonality, for  it  is  not  only  possible  for 
the  housewife  to  maintain  some  interests 
foreign  to  household  duties, —  it  is  prac- 
tically necessary  in  building  a  well- 
rounded  life. 

One  of  the  most  successful  wives  I 


know,  a  mother  of  eight  children,  is  an 
untiring  club  worker  and  her  papers  on 
child  training  are  something  illuminat- 
ing. 

The  day  of  shelving  middle-aged 
women  has  gone  by,  the  hands  of  ma- 
tuity  are  no  longer  folded  hands,  for  the 
chimney-side  recluse  of  a  century  ago 
has  been  replaced  by  a  resplendent  being, 
crowned  with  the  wisdom  of  the  golden 
yea'rs. 

The  test  of  living  is  unfailingly  an- 
swered in  middle  life,  the  most  promis- 
ing woman  in  youth  is  only  a  fraction, 
after  passing  the  half-way  milestone,  she 
is  either  a  telling  integer  or  a  cipher. 

The  view-point  of  youth  is  invariably 
hampered  by  selfishness.  Youth's  joys 
are  transporting  and  its  sorrows  corre- 
spondingly keen,  but  following  this 
storm  and  stress  epoch  comes  the  mellow 
period  of  maturity,  the  day  of  quiet 
rapture  and  tempered  disappointments,  a 
day  rendered  worth  while  through 
trained  efficiency  and  the  happy  art  of 
canceling. 

I  like  to  think  of  the  victorious  women 
who  have  looked  on  the  absorbing  occu- 
pations of  wifehood  and  motherhood  as 
a  means  of  development,  not  as  the  end 
and  goal  of  living.  It  was  a  wife  and 
mother  and  a  recruit  from  the  ranks  of^ 
middle-aged  women,  the  wonderful  Mad- 
ame Curie,  you  remember,  who  gave  the 
world  the  priceless  gift  of  radium.  It  is 
glorious  Schumann-Heink,  who,  some- 
how, has  managed  to  enchant  us  with 
grand  opera  arias  while  mothering  a 
numerous  progeny;  and  when  that  de- 
lightful novel,  "The  Rosary,"  came  to 
us  a  few  years  ago,  we  were  glad  to  find 
that  the  talented  author,  Mrs.  Barclay, 
the  busy  wife  of  an  English  curate, 
mother  of  eight  children,  had  at  the  age 
of  fifty  written  the  best  selling  story  of 
the  year. 


112 


THE  GOLDEN  YEARS 


113 


These  woaen  are  what  Bliss  Carman 
would  tcnn  "Growers."  "Growers,"  he 
declares,  "are  all  those  natural  children 
of  the  earth,  whether  simplex  or  com- 
plex, who  have  cultivated  the  most 
fundamental  principles  of  responsible 
living,  a  capacity  for  improvement  and 
a  hunger  for  perfection.  And  it  is  this 
trait  of  rational  painstaking  that  lends 
the  most  sterling  distinction  to  person- 
ality and  differentiates  leaders  from  fol- 
lowers, helpfulness  from  dependence, 
and  the  individual  from  the  mass." 

"For  growers  there  can  be  neither 
stagnation  nor  decay.  They  are  like 
thrifty  trees  in  the  forest,  deep  rooted  in 
the  common  soil  of  life  from  which  they 
spring,  deriving  nourishment  from  the 
good  ground  of  sympathy,  stimulation 
and  refreshment  from  the  free  winds  of 
aspiration,  producing  perennially  the 
flower  and  fruitage  of  gladness  and  well- 
being  proper  to  their  kind  and  enriching 
the  earth.  They  are  the  normal  ones,  at 
once  exemplars  of  all  that  is  best  in  their 
species  and  the  perpetuators  of  all  that 
is  most  valuable." 

Not  that  always  tucked  away  in  the 
drab  routine  of  domestic  duties  lies  the 
thwarted  flower  of  renown,  but  oh,  so 
frequently  deep  down  in  scores  of 
breasts  of  busy  home-makers  is  im- 
planted the  aspiration  whose  cultivation 
would  make  for  a  richer  and  happier 
life. 

And  right  here,  were  it  my  privilege  to 
whisper  a  message  to  each  prospective 
bride  and  young  matron,  it  would  be,  as 
a  side  issue  to  housewifery,  to  foster  the 
gift  of  individuality  by  some  form  of 
self-expression.  It  is  the  few  moments 
devoted  daily  to  such  cherished  ambi- 
tions that  bee-like  in  the  after  years  yield 
a  treasury  of  sweetness.  There  is  noth- 
ing much  more  forlorn  than  the  middle- 
aged  woman,  who,  after  training  her  off- 
spring to  self-reliant  womanhood  and 
manhood,  says  amen  to  her  capabilities 
and  sits  down  with  the  cipher  contingent. 

Far  be  it  from  me  to  disparage  the 
home  and  its  sacred  duties,  but  the  home 


minus  some  other  life-interest  is  warping 
in  its  tendency,  and  there  ia  evidence  all 
along  the  connubial  path  where  great 
capabilities  have  suffered  ignominious 
death.  Let  us  remember  that  little  fin- 
gers do  not  cling  always.  There  comes 
a  margin  of  leisure  to  the  busiest  life 
wherein  some  cherished  talent  may  be 
nursed  into  beauty,  to  the  gratification  of 
its  possessor  and  the  ultimate  good  of  all 
concerned. 

Up  in  York  state  there  used  to  be  an 
old  Dutch  fruit  peddler  who,  at  times, 
carried  a  side-line  of  herbs,  mint,  sage, 
summer  savory  and  the  like.  Smilingly, 
he  used  to  confide  that  at  certain  seasons 
the  side-line  meant  more  to  him  than  the 
apples  and  oranges.  And  so  it  is  with 
life.  There  are  times  when  the  side-lines 
spell  comfort,  beauty,  and  even,  as  in 
the  case  of  the  humble  Dutchman,  pros- 
perity. 

I  have  in  mind  a  Western  artist,  wife 
of  a  hustling  professional  man,  whose 
manifold  duties  as  a  home-maker  and 
mother  of  a  family  of  five  could  not 
wholly  obliterate  her  desire  to  reproduce 
on  canvas  the  ever-changing  pageantry 
of  Nature.  Each  year  the  misty  grays 
and  green  of  Springtime,  emerald  and 
gold  of  Summer,  the  flaunting  hues  of 
gypsy-hearted  Autumn,  and  soft  white 
ways  of  Winter  coaxed  with  insistent 
lure.  As  a  result  the  neglected  palette 
and  brushes  were  called  into  play,  and 
there  appeared,  from  time  to  time,  en- 
chanting bits  of  landscapes  and  water- 
scapes. This  work  was  supplemented 
by  a  thorough  study  of  ceramics  and 
specialization  in  china  decoration;  then 
came  the  old,  old  story  of  the  husband's 
financial  reverses  and  his  subsequent  in- 
validism. A  studio  was  opened  and  the 
rest  of  the  story  is  summed  up  in  one 
small  word — success.  To-day,  the  five 
children  are  happily  ensconced  in  homes 
of  their  own.  One  son  is  one  of  Cali- 
fornia's leading  surgeons,  yet  the  wid- 
owed artist,  now  past  the  good  ripe  age 
of  seventy,  out  of  sheer  joy  of  creation, 
still  maintains  her  studio,  painting  with 


114 


THE  BOSTON  COOKINGtSCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


the  same  finish  and  delicacy  that  have 
made  her  work  famous. 

Into  equally  busy  days  another  woman 
has  contrived  to  crowd  time  for  reading 
of  permanent  literature  and  to  jot  down 
some  kaleidoscopic  experiences  of  her 
own.  Now  and  then,  a  fugitive  poem 
from  her  pen  found  a  home  in  some 
periodical  of  note,  and,  later  on,  owing 
to  this  self -same  development,  she  has 
been  able  to  transmute  some  gray  years 
of  loss  and  deprivation  with  the  gold  of 
service. 

There  is  still  another  home-keeper  of 
my  acquaintance,  gifted  with  her  needle, 
who  now  in  the  less  strenuous  period 
of  the  middle  years  is  indulging  her 
hobby.  She  fashions  pretty  and  individ- 
ual gowns  for  herself,  surprises  her 
friends  with  dainty  products  of  her 
needlecraft,  and  takes  much  pleasure  in 
giving  her  services,  teaching  sewing  in  a 
small  New  England  town  where  they  are 
making  heroic  efforts  to  introduce  voca- 
tional training  in  the  schools. 


So,  one  by  one,  ambition  leads  them  to 
the  fruitage  of  the  golden  years.  Twas 
here,  after  her  fortieth  birthday,  that 
Harriet  Beecher  Stowe  penned  her  im- 
mortal words ;  'twas  here,  after  her  for- 
tieth year,  that  Julia  Ward  Howe  took 
up  the  study  of  Greek  and  became  profi- 
cient therein,  and  it  is  here,  after  the 
half-century  mark,  that  Ella  Wheeler 
Wilcox  is  doing  her  best  creative  work. 
And  so  on  might  be  mentioned  the  names 
of  the  arduous  sowers  of  industry  who 
have  somehow  caught  "what  the  cen- 
turies are  saying  amid  the  wild  chorus 
of  the  hours." 

For  it  is  solely  in  this  rugged  realm  of 
untiring  endeavor  that  the  zest  of  life 
flowers,  and  only  the  woman  who  proves 
herself  stronger  than  her  environment 
captures  it.  She  alone  who  has  proven 
herself  a  veritable  feminine  Hercules,  by 
slaying  all  dragons  of  circumstance,  can 
hope  to  win  a  peep  into  the  gleaming  or- 
chard of  Hesperides  and  garner  the 
riches  of  the  Golden  Years! 


September 


Frost  in  the  air,  and  breezes  blowing 

Chill  from  the  West  at  morn. 
Crimson  leaves  on  the  maples  glowing 

And  gold  of  ripened  corn. 
Song  of  the  crickets,  gaily  calling, 

And  drone  of  laggard  bees: 
Seeds  from  a  thousand  seed-pods,  falling 

Over  a  thousand  leas. 
Be  glad  my  heart,  and  a  song  of  cheer 
Give  to  the  world,  when  September's  here. 


Sunshine     and     moonshine,     changed 
altered, 

Haze  over  hill  and  lea, 
Even  song  of  the  brook  has  faltered. 

Crooning  on  toward  the  sea. 
Patter  of  nuts  and  acorns  falling. 

Feast  for  the  squirrels  spread. 
Quails  in  the  distant  stubble  calling 

And  apples  ripe  and  red. 
What  if  Winter  is  drawing  near. 
Earth's  at  her  best,  September's  here. 


and 


Perfume  sweet  where  the  wild  grapes  offer 

Wine  that  a  king  might  praise. 
Fruits  of  the  year  in  an  open  coffer, 

Gift  of  the  passing  days. 
Wake  from  your  sleep,  o,  idle  dreamer. 

Toiler,  turn  from  your  toil, 
Follow  the  sumac's  crimson  streamer 

Back  to  the  wood  and  soil. 
Steal  one  perfect  day  from  a  year 
Of  toil  or  dreaming,  September's  here. 

L.  M.  Thornton 


"Finding  Ourselves  in  Wales** 


By  Miss  £.  D.  Learned 


A 


ND  can  you  also  board  us?"  we 
inquired  of  the  woman  whose 
lodgings  we  had  been  inspect- 
ing. "Oh,  no,"  she  said,  "I  had  much 
rather  you  found  yourselves."  "But,"  a 
trifle  puzzled,  "if  we  find  ourselves, 
where  do  we  find  ourselves?"  The  re- 
mark roused  the  Welsh  sense  of  humor 
and  she  laughingly  explained  that  "find- 
ing ourselves"  meant  buying  our  own 
provisions  and  sending  them  to  our  own 
apartment  to, be  cooked  for  us.  House- 
keeping without  the  bother  of  servants 
and  many  other  attendant  worries. 

We  had  come  to  the  west  coast  of 
Wales  after  a  week  of  hot  weather  in 
London,  feeling  that  the  sea  air  would 
be  most  grateful,  but  unfortunately  ar- 
rived about  the  first  of  August  only  to 
find  rain  and  cold. 

The  hotel  overlooking  the  sea  was 
only  intended  for  warm  weather,  and 
the  small  fire  places  were  quite  inade- 
quate to  warm  .the  large  parlor  and 
lounge,  so  there  was  nothing  to  do  but 
huddle  over  tiny  bedroom  fires  when  we 
were  not  freezing  in  the  large  draughty 
dining  room. 

The  table  was  none  too  good  and  never 
made  us  forget  pur  discomfort.  No  use 
moving  on,  for  we  would  probably  go 
from  one  storm  to  another.  We  were 
a  trifle  discouraged,  when  a  letter  came 
from  some  friends  asking  us  to  look  for 
lodgings  for  them,  as  they  were  anxious 
to  be  near  us  and  did  not  wish  the  ex- 
pense of  the  hotel. 

Behold !  the  lodgings  sought  for  others 
looked  so  much  more  attractive  and 
home-like  than  our  own  surroundings 
that  we  said  "Why  not  try  it  ourselves? 
Join  forces,  making  a  party  of  eight, 
which  just  fills  the  house,  and  take  it 
for  the  two  weeks  we  expect  to  stay 
here?" 

The  house  was  of  stone,  quite  mod- 


ern, and  though  once  we  should  have 
preferred  something  old  and  quaint,  ex- 
perience had  taught  us  that  quaintness 
and  age  go  hand-in-hand  with  discomfort 
and  dirt,  and  we  cared  not  for  the  pic- 
turesque, when  we  beheld  the  perfect 
cleanliness  of  our  prospective  lodging 
house.  Set  a  little  back  from  the 
road  and  much  higher,  you  reached 
the  entrance  by  a  path  arched  over  by  a 
rose-covered  trellis.  In  front  was  a 
charming  little  garden  with  seats  in  shel- 
tered nooks  from  which  we  could  look 
out  over  the  sea.  Hedges  of  holly  and 
fuschia  separated  the  grounds  from  the 
neighboring  houses.  At  the  back  rose 
the  hills,  the  foot-hills  of  the  Snowden 
mountain  range.  Penmaenmawr  being 
the  highest  nearby,  and  too  often  cloud- 
capped,  for  "when  the  clouds  hang  on 
Penmaenmawr  and  the  gulls  do  fly  over 
the  land,  it  is  going  to  rain." 

The  house  consisted,  for  us,  of  a  par- 
lor, dining  room,  two  double  and  four 
single  bedrooms,  and  could  be  had  for 
ten  guineas,  or  $52.50  a  week,  which  in- 
cluded the  use  of  bath,  lights,  cooking 
and  attendance.  Household  linen  and 
tableware  were,  of  course,  provided, 
which  made  it  a  little  less  than  a  dollar 
a  day  for  each  person. 

Now  began  the  interesting  part  of  see- 
ing, not  only  how  much  more  comfort- 
able we  could  be,  but  how  much  less  we 
could  live  on,  than  at  the  hotel. 

The  first  day's  expenses  must  neces- 
sarily be  large,  as  flour,  sugar,  coflfee, 
tea  and  other  staples  must  be  laid  in. 
With  a  long  list  in  hand  we  set  forth  on 
our  venture  at  housekeeping  in  a  strange 
land.  The  first  check  to  our  spirits  came 
when  we  found  that  Monday,  August 
5th,  was  a  Bank  holiday,  so  we  couldn't 
draw  on  letters  of  credit,  and  as  it  had 
taken  nearly  all  the  ready  money  to  pay 
the  hotel  bill,  it  was  a  serious  problem  to 


115 


116 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


purchase  enough  for  the  three  meals  that 
must  be  had  before  the  bank  went  to 
work  again.  However,  our  landlady 
seemed  to  be  a  person  of  good  and  regu- 
lar standing  in  the  community  and  all 
the  shops  were  willing  to  trust  us  on 
hearing  we  were  staying  at  "Bronwen- 
don",  the  Welsh  name  of  our  house, 
meaning,  they  told  us,  "the  crest  of  the 
wave."  We  moved  in  just  before  lunch- 
eon on  Monday  and  at  one  o'clock  a  neat 
looking  maid  in  white  cap  and  apron 
came  to  tell  us  that  luncheon  was  served 
in  the  dining  room. 

There  was  a  beautifully  clean,  white 
cloth  on  the  table,  in  the  centre  of  which 
was  a  bunch  of  flowers;  the  china  was 
pretty  and  attractive  and  the  knives  and 
forks  fairly  shone  with  polishing. 

Sardines,  cold  ham,  hot  brown  bread 
scones,  bought  at  a  bakery,  and  straw- 
berry jam  we  had  for  our  first  luncheon. 
We  waited  on  ourselves,  ringing  when 
anything  was  needed,  and  the  neat  little 
maid  appeared  as  if  by  magic,  so  quiet 
were  her  movements.  How  we  did  en- 
joy that  meal,  and  what  a  delight  it  was 
to  be  by  ourselves  and  no  longer  have 
to  talk  in  undertones  lest  the  next  table 
overhear. 

It  was  cold  and  windy,  so  we  spent  the 
afternoon  by  the  grate  fire  until  time  for 
tea,  which  was  served  in  the  dining 
room,  with  as  pretty  and  thin  china  cups 
as  you  would  care  to  see,  with  toast  and 
more  strawberry  jam.  We  gave  the 
landlady  an  easy  dinner  that  night,  for 
not  only  was  it  a  Bank  holiday,  but  we 
had  insisted  on  coming  a  day  before  she 
wanted  us  and  her  housewifely  soul  was 
troubled  lest  a  speck  of  dust  should  be 
found.  She  had  hot  water  bags  in  all  the 
beds  for  a  day  or  two  before  we  came, 
to  be  sure  that  no  dampness  chilled  us. 
We  bought  two  small  pork  pies  that  only 
needed  to  be  warmed,  peas  which  we 
shelled  ourselves,  not  because  she  asked 
it  but  knowing  how  long  it  would  take 
one  person  and  how  short  a  time  we 
could  do  them,  together,  in.  We  also  had 
fried  potatoes  and  a  tomato  salad,  with 


a  dessert  of  tarts,  also  from  the  bakery, 
and  cream  cheese.  This  for  the  first  day 
of  the  experiment,  which  we  were  al- 
ready regarding  as  a  success. 

Breakfast  was  ready  at  nine  the  next 
morning,  oatmeal  and  cream,  bacon,  hot 
rolls  and  coffee.  The  best  coffee  we  had 
since  we  had  been  in  England,  as  we  had 
our  own  coffee  pot  with  us  and  it  was 
made  just  to  our  liking.  After  breakfast, 
out  for  the  day's  supplies.  The  village 
street  was  close  by  and  all  the  town 
seemed  to  be  marketing. 

A  few  of  the  meals  may  be  of  interest 
in  their  resemblance  to,  or  difference 
from,  American  housekeeping. 

Tuesday  Luncheon 

Cold  Pork  Pie      Cold  Ham 

Omelet 
Milk  Toast      Strawberry  Jam 

Dinner 

Roast  Mutton,  with  Potatoes  roasted 

under  the  meat 

Peas       Tomato  Salad 

Plum  Tart  with  Cream 

Our  breakfasts  were  invariable,  as  we 
particularly  liked  the  Welsh  bacon,  and 
we  left  a  standing  order  at  the  bakery  to 
have  the  brown  scones  sent  every  morn- 
ing. 

Wednesday  Luncheon 
Sardines  and  Potato  Salad 

Dinner 

Mutton  Pie      Spaghetti 
Sliced  Peaches  with  Cream 

Thursday  Luncheon 
Cold  Tongue      Boiled  Rice 

Dinner 

Fillet  of  Flounder        Frfed  Potatoes 

Peas      Lettuce 

Young  Onion  Salad 

Small  Fruit  Tarts 

Friday  Luncheon 

Fried  Whiting      Baked  Spaghetti 
Hot  Buns      Strawberry  Jafti 

Dinner 

Tongue-and-Potato  Hash 
(Which  seemed  to  be  an  unknown  dish  to 
our  landlady,  as  she  was  only  used  to 
what  she  called  a  meat  mince  with- 
out potatoes) 
String  Beans 
(Which  she  cut  into  very  small  pieces  and 
boiled  with  a  pinch  of  soda  in  the  water 
not  more  than  fifteen  minutes) 
Tomato  Salad  and  Apple  Tart  with  Cream 

Saturday  Luncheon 

Individual  Meat  Pies  from  the  bakery 
Boiled  Rice  and  Hot  Scones 


THE  LYRIC  OF  LIFL 


117 


Dinner 

Baked  Ham 

Mashed  Potatoes      Peas 

Small  Fruit  Tarts 

We  found  the  bakery  excellent,  much 
better  than  we  could  find  in  America 
even  in  the  large  towns,  and  none  of  the 
bread  was  made  in  the  house  but  all 
bought  from  the  bakery. 

Tea  was  served  every  afternoon,  when 
we  were  in,  and  we  tried  to  keep  some 
fruit  on  hand,  though  it  was  difficult  to 
find  it  in  any  variety  or  good.  Never 
before  did  we  appreciate  the  wealth  of 
fruit  to  be  had  at  all  seasons  in  the 
United  States. 

Our  landlady  proved  to  be  an  excellent 
cook  and  made   delicious  pie-crust,   so 


that  we  begged  her  to  give  us  lessons, 
and  one  day  gathered  about  the  table,  in 
her  attractive,  tiled-floor  kitchen,  to 
watch  her  make  pastry  and  see  if  we 
could  catch  the  knack. 

We  allowed  about  $30  a  week  for  pro- 
visions. The  fire  that  we  were  obliged 
to  keep  in  the  living  room  was  extra. 
The  landlady  and  her  little  maid  were 
most  desirous  to  please  us  and  they  kept 
our  rooms  filled  with  fresh  flowers,  mak- 
ing it  seem  like  home. 

It  was  not  too  cold  for  walks  over 
the  wonderful  Welsh  mountains,  purple 
with  heather  bloom,  and  after  our  walks 
it  was  pleasant  to  come  back  to  our  own 
fireside.  Altogether  our  experiment  was 
a  great  success  and,  if  we  ever  "find  our- 
selves" again,  may  it  be  in  Wales. 


The  Lyric  of  Life 

Because    the    world    seemed    warped    and 

wrong 
I  stayed  within  to  write  a  song: 

A  rythmic  woodland  fancy. 
I  wanted  men  to  dance  and  sing 
With  forest  freedom;  swirl  and  swing 

To  nature's  necromancy. 

The  hill-sides  called  my  truant  mind; 
I  turned  away  and  drew  the  blind 

Against  the  sunny  flickers; 
But  though  the  gloom  hung  thick,  I  foutld 
I  could  not  dull  the  luring  sound 

Of  laughing  berry-pickers. 

And  from  the  bridge  there  came  a  shout — 
My  boy  had  duped  a  speckled  trout: 

His  first  successful  fishing; 
I  pressed  my  eyes  to  cheat  the  tears, 
But  still  the  outside  charmed  my  ears — 

I  could  not  stay  the  wishing. 

Then  Lassie  growled  with  discontent: 
The  summer  breeze  had  blown  a  scent 

Of  strangers  in  the  Hollow; 
And  someone  shouted  loud  my  name — 
The  echo  charmed  me;  when  it  came, 

I  knew  that  I  must  follow. 

Great  God!  to  shut  out  sun  and  trees 
And  then  in  gloom  to  sing  of  these! — 

My  sin  was  past  forgiving. 
Out  doors  I  rushed  with  bursting  heart, 
The  sonff  unsung;  for  art  is  art. 

But  life  is  more — ^it's  living! 

Jans  Bun. 


118 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


THE 

BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE 

OF 
Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics 

SUBSCRIFTION  $1.00  PER  YeAR    SiNGLE  CoPIES,  lOc 

Foreign  Postage:  To  Canada,  20c  per  Year 
To  OTHER  Foreign  Countries,  40c  per  Year 

TO  SUBSCRIBERS 

The  date  stamped  on  the  wrapper  is  the  date 
on  which  your  subscription  expires;  it  is«  also,  an 
acknowledgment  that  a  subscripdon,  or  a  renewal 
of  the  same«  has  been  received. 

Please  renew  on  receipt  of  the  colored  blank 
enclosed  for  this  purpose. 

In  sending  nodce  to  renew  a  subscription  or 
change  of  address,  please  pve  the  9ld  address 
as  well  as  the  new. 

In  referring  to  an  original  entry,  we  must  know 
the  name  as  ^t  was  formerly  given,  together  with 
the  Post-office,  County,  Stote,  Post-office  Box, 
or  Street  Number. 

SUtUwunt  0/9wmr»hip  and  mtmagtrngni  ms  rtfturtd  by 
tkt  Act  0/C0Mgrttt  9/Augutt  94, 1912, 

Editor:  Janet  M.  Hill. 
Business  Managers :  R.  B.  Hill,  B.  M.  Hill. 

Owners : 

B.  M.  Hill,  Janet  M.  Hill,  R.  B.  Hill. 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

published  ten  times  a  year  by 

The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine  Co., 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

BvTSKKD  AT  BoCTOH  Forr-omcB  AM  Sboowd-clam  M attbb 


The  Rainbow's  Ejid 

O  jeweled  path  to  the  world's  desire! 

Just  over  the  vale  to  the  mountain's  crest 
It  bends  its  arch  of  rose  and  fire, 

And  challenges  all  to  the  quest! 
Supernal  beauty  that  never  can  fade, 

The  perfect  love  that  never  can  die. 
And  purest  gold  of  which  dreams  are  made 

At  the  end  of  the  rainbow  liel 

But  year  by  year  the  light  that  shone 

So  near  still  travels  before; 
And  the  world  grows  empty  and  dark  and 
lone, 

And  burdens  weigh  more  and  more! 
Alas,    for   the   climbing   through   tangle   and 
gloom 

The  longing  so  vain  and  fond: 
The  rainbow  runs  at  last  to  the  tomb 

And  the  treasure  lies  ever  beyond! 

Stokely  S.  Fishes. 


VACATION 

ABOVE  all  others  housekeepers  need 
an  occasional  vacation.  Change 
means  rest,  recuperation  and  renewed  in- 
terest in  one's  tasks,  hence  follows  better 
and  more  effective  service.  People  who 
live  in  the  country  are  apt  to  see  too 
much  of  each  other.  Often  it  would 
seem  wise,  if  individuals  of  the  same 
family  or  who  live  in  the  same  house  did 
not  take  a  vacation  together  and  at  the 
same  time,  and  did  not  visit  the  same 
places.  It  were  well  for  most  of  us,  at 
times,  to  seek  new  and  strange  scenes 
or  abide  for  a  while,  apart,  in  solitude. 
"Out  of  silence  comes  thy  strength." 
From  outings  like  these  we  return  to  our 
tasks  refreshed  and  invigorated  and  the 
responsibilities  of  life  seem  less  burden- 
some. After  only  a  casual  day  .of  recrea- 
tion, home  may  be  much  better  appre- 
ciated, for  no  place  can  be  just  like  home. 
At  any  rate,  a  vacation  season  for  every- 
body who  works  is  almost  an  imperative 
need ;  and  surely  the  advantages  of  it  to 
the  homemaker  cannot  be  over  valued. 

LETTERS  AND  LETTERS 

WE  are  in  receipt,  in  the  course  of  a 
year,  of  many  a  complaint  from 
our  subscribers  that  their  letters  are  not 
answered,  and,  in  some  cases,  we  must 
admit  the  statement  is  true.  For  this  rea- 
son, there  are  undoubtedly  many  people 
who  feel  ill  towards  us  and  speak  evil  of 
us  to  their  friends  and  neighbors,  which 
eventually  may  prevail  even  to  the  injury 
of  our  business  and  reputation.  But  how 
is  it  possible  to  answer  a  letter  like  the 
following,  of  which  we  receive  not  a  few  ? 


(( 


Boston  Cooking-School  Magasine: 

Kindly  discontinue  my  subs'cription 
to  the  magazine." 


ff 


In  content,  this  letter  is  eminently 
proper  and  well  intentioned,  and  we 
would  be  pleased  to  respond  promptly, 
for  we  can  ill  afford  to  print  and  mail  a 
single  copy  of  the  magazine  unpaid  for. 


EDITORIALS 


119 


But  we  can,  in  no  wise,  comply  with  the 
request  made  in  this  letter,  ff>r  there  is  no 
signature,  and  no  address, — nothing  to 
identify  the  writer.  Sometimes  the  pos- 
tal stamp  on  the  envelope  gives  a  hint  of 
the  location,  but  not  in  this  case. 

Now  kindly  note  this  fact:  In  case 
your  letter  has  not  been  answered,  the 
fault  may  not  lie  in  this  office.  Write 
once  more,  being  careful  to  give  name 
and  address  in  full  and  your  letter  shall 
be  promptly  answered  and  your  request 
be  complied  with. 

ATTITUDE  OF  MIND 

IN  all  industrial  pursuits  today  the 
mental  attitude  of  the  operator  has 
come  to  be  known  as  the  factor  of  chief 
importance.  Some  one  has  said  that 
"happiness  consists  in  being  well  em- 
ployed and  well  compensated  in  some 
genial  occupation",  and  who  can  refute 
the  sentiment.  In  shop  and  factory  effi- 
ciency experts  are  engaged  in  standard- 
izing the  operations.  This  new  idea, 
lately  developed  in  business,  is  called  effi- 
ciency or  scientific  management.  It 
means  that  the  men  engaged  in  a  certain 
industry  are  to  do  more  work  in  less 
time  with  less  waste  and  greater  output, 
while  the  workers  have  shorter  hours, 
higher  pay  and  better  working  conditions. 
Now  the  question  comes  up  to  the  home- 
maker,  "If  the  principles  of  efficiency 
can  be  successfully  carried  out  in  every 
kind  of  shop,  factory  and  business,  why 
couldn't  they  be  carried  out  equally  well 
in  the  home  ?"  That  is,  can  the  principles 
of  scientific  management  be  applied  in 
the  home?  This  question  is  admirably 
discussed,  we  may  add  affirmatively,  by 
the  author  of  "The  New  Housekeeping", 
from  which  we  quote  the  following  pas- 
sage, somewhat  appropriate,  perhaps,  to 
the  vacation  season: 

"Woman's  vanity  has  often  kept  her 
from  admitting  that  many  of  her  prob- 
lems are  so  distressing  simply  because  of 
her  own  lack  of  personal  efficiency,  not 
because  of  circumstances,  fate,  or  other 
people.     In  most    cases,    however,    she 


never  even  suspects  that  she  is  not  as 
efficient  as  she  might  be,  and  points  to 
the  hard  manual  labor  she  does  as 
proof  of  her  efficiency — ^as  if  that  didn't 
prove  just  the  opposite! 

The  efficient  attitude  of  mind  is  really 
the  balance-wheel  to  the  homemakers' 
entire  life  and  work. 

The  end  and  aim  of  home  efficiency  is 
not  a  perfect  system  of  work,  or  scien- 
tific scheduling,  or  ideal  cleanliness  and 
order ;  it  is  the  personal  happiness,  health 
and  progress  of  the  family  in  the  home. 
The  work,  the  science,  the  system,  the 
schedule  are  but  some  of  the  means  to 
that  end,  not  the  end  itself.  The  100  per 
cent,  efficient  person  is  not  the  one  who 
tires  himself  out  in  a  wonderful  snarl  of 
method  and  system — but  who  makes  his 
mind  so  clear  and  efficient  that  both  the 
work  and  the  system  are  his  slaves,  when 
he  gets  into  action. 

I  do  not  call  that  woman  efficient  who 
thinks  it  a  sacrilege  to  change  her  sched- 
ule of  work,  leave  dishes  unwashed  and 
housd  upset,  to  take  advantage  of  a  pleas- 
ant afternoon  for  a  jaunt  in  the  woods 
with  the  children.  Neither  do  I  call  that 
woman  efficient  who  complains  that  her 
schedule  of  work  leaves  her  no  time  to 
read  a  good  book  or  attend  an  afternoon 
musical  or  club  meeting.  Efficiency 
would  be  a  sorry  thing,  if  it  simply  meant 
a  prison-like,  compulsory  routine  of  du- 
ties. But  it  does  not  mean  this.  Its  very 
purpose  is  more  liberty,  more  leisure,  a 
shrewder  sense  of  values,  and  the  elimi- 
nation of  wasted  energy. 

I  once  knew  a  woman  who  dusted  the 
back  of  every  picture  in  her  home  every 
day.  She  believed  this  was  real  effi- 
ciency. I  also  knew  a  woman  who 
spoiled  a  delightful  camping  experience 
by  so  elaborating  the  simple  work  of 
camp-caretaking  that  she  rarely  had  time 
to  enjoy  the  woods  and  fields  so  plentiful 
about  her,  and  complained,  after  some 
months  of  camping,  that  she  had  never 
had  a  single  day  of  rest !  This  is  typical 
of  a  large  class  of  women  whose  sense  of 
values  is  garbled  by  inefficient  thinking." 


120 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


FAILURE  AND  SUCCESS 

What  is  the  main  element  of  worldly 
success?  Is  it  natural  ability,  opportur 
nity,  favoring  environment,  or  the  help 
of  influential  friends?  Evidently  not, 
for  thousands  of  men  have  climbed  to 
the  dizzy  peaks  of  success  with  none  of 
these  aids.  All  experience  shows  that  an 
ardent,  thorough-going  earnestness  is  the 
vital  element  in  all  great  achievements, 
— the  one  thing  for  which  there  can  be 
no  substitute,  and  the  lack  of  which  ex- 
plains so  many  otherwise  inexplicable 
failures  in  every  calling. 

"You  can  only  half  will,"  was  the  lan- 
guage of  Suvaroff,  the  Russian  warrior, 
to  those  who  fail.  "You  want  to  live  like 
the  butterfly,  and  yet  have  all  the  honey 
of  the  bee,"  said  Pisistratus  Caxton 
to  Vivian,  in  Bulwer's  novel;  and  these 
two  sayings  contain  a  satisfactory  ex- 
planation of  the  great  mass  of  failures 
in  life.  Nine-tenths  of  men's  disappoint- 
ments and  miseries  come  from  the  fact 
that  they  are  not  in  dead  earnest  in  their 
pursuits,  and  willing  to  pay  the  cost  of 
the  things  they  covet.  They  want  wealth 
without  earning  it,  popularity  without 
deserving  it,  health  without  exercise  and 
temperance,  and  happiness  without  holi- 
ness. The  man  who  covets  the  best 
things,  and  is  willing  to  pay  exactly  what 
they  are  worth  in  honest  effort  and  hard 
self-denial,  will  have  no  difficulty  in  get- 
ting what  he  wants.  It  is  the  men  who 
want  goods  on  credit  that  are  snubbed 
and  disappointed,  and  overwhelmed  in 
the  eAd. — Christian  Register. 

BURNT  COOKIES 

How  many  of  our  readers  were  trained 
as  children  under  that  economic  regime 
which  insisted  that  the  specked  apples 
should  be  eaten  before  the  unimpaired 
ones  and  that  the  burnt  cookies  should 
come  in  order  before  the  properly 
browned  ones  should  be  taken  from  the 
plate? 

This  was  a  conuHon  procedure  in  old 
New  England,  and  the  state  of  the  par- 


tially decayed  fruit  and  the  bitter  tang  of 
the  carbonized  crust  is  not  altogether 
pleasantly  associated  with  grandmother's 
table,  generous  as  it  may  have  been  on 
Thanksgiving  Day.  Sweet  cider  turned 
to  vinegar  because,  from  this  same  habit 
of  economy,  it  seemed  wasteful  to  eat  or 
drink  things  up  is,  probably,  also  a  sad 
memory  of  boyhood. 

This  penurious  asceticism  arose  from 
the  commendable  caretaking  and  saving 
spirit  inculcated  by  generations  of  poor 
and  pious  people  and  inherited,  perhaps, 
with  a  slight  twist  which  made  it  ridicu- 
lous. If  apples  or  any  other  fruit  are  a 
luxury,  one  can  eat  a  less  amount  of 
them  or  even  refrain  entirely,  as  the  ma- 
jority of  us  refrain  from  champagne. 
But  if  we  are  going  to  taste  the  delicious 
fruit  or  the  crisp  and  exhilarating  cookie, 
for  Heaven's  sake  let  us  have  the  dimin- 
utive portion  with  flavor  unspoiled,  even 
though  half  the  barrel  decays  and  half  of 
the  baking  is  scorched. 

Another  relic  of  those  almost  pre-his- 
toric  days  of  economy  is  found  in  the 
habit  that  some  mothers  and  possibly 
some  fathers  have  of  insisting  that  every- 
thing on  a  plate  delivered  over  to  the 
tender  mercies  of  their  offspring  must  be 
eaten  up.  Why  should  man  or  child  eat 
more  than  he  desires  ?  It  is  a  foolish  in- 
heritance, an  offshoot  of  the  primitive 
hospitality  that  would  load  the  visitor's 
plate  with  food  and  feel  offended,  if  the 
whole  were  not  eaten.    — TAe  Herald 


The  great  man  does  not  become  great 
suddenly.  Like  Ernest,  in  Hawthorne's 
story  of  "The  Great  Stone  Face,"  he 
moulds  his  features  by  high  thinking  and 
kindly  acting.  "Let  us  always  remem- 
ber," writes  Maurice  Maeterlinck,  "that 
nothing  befalls  us  that  is  not  of  the  na- 
ture of  ourselves.  There  comes  no  ad- 
venture but  wears  to  our  soul  the  shape 
of  everyday  thoughts;  and  deeds  of 
heroism  are  but  offered  to  those  who,  for 
many  long  years,  have  been  heroes  in 
obscurity  and  silence,'^ 


MI&5UUMBR  BREAKFAST  APPETIZER 


Seasonable  Recipes 

By  Janet  M.  Hill 


IN  all  recipes  where  flour  is  used,  unless  otherwise  stated,  the  flour  is  measured  aftei 
sifting  once.  Where  flour  is  measured  by  cups,  the  cup  is  tilled  with  a  spoon,  and  a 
level  cupful  is  meant.  A  tablespoonful  or  teaspoonful  of  any  designated  material  is  a 
LEVEL  spoonful. 


Celery  Relish 

CUT  tender  heart-stalks  of  celery 
into  pieces  about  two  inches  long. 
Let  crisp  in  ice  water  to  which  a 
lemon  rind  or  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar 
has  been  added.  Pick  the  fillets  from 
three  anchovies,  fine,  with  a  silver  fork 
(if  put  up  in  salt  freshen  in  cold  water), 
mix  the  anchovies  with  the  sifted  yolks 
and  the  chopped  whites  of  two  hard- 
cooked  e^s;  stir  in  enough  mayonnaise 
dressii^  to  hold  the  ingredients  together. 
Wipe  the  celery  dry  and  use  as  a  recep- 
tacle for  the  mixture.  Serve  at  the  be- 
ginning of  luncheon  or  dinner. 

Celery  Relish  No.  2 
Put  heart-leaves  of  lettuce  about  three 
inches  long  on  individual  plates.  Fill 
each  leaf  compactly  with  tiny  slices  of 
crisp  celery  and  bits  of  anchovy  (twice 
as  much  celery  as  anchovy)  mixed  with 
mayonnaise  dressing.  Cover  completely 
with    crosswise    strips    of    fine- chopped 


parsley,  sifted  yolk  and  chopped  white  of 
a  hard-cooked  egg.  Season  the  mayon; 
naise  with  a  little  onion  juice  and  cay- 
enne. Spread  the  mixture  lightly  with 
mayonnaise  before  setting  the  strips  of 
decoration  in  place. 

Oyster  Cocktail  Sauce,  Septem- 
ber Style 

Chop  a  red  and  a  green  pepiier  exceed- 
ingly fine;  add  to  tonuto  catsup  with  a 
scraping  of  new  onion.  The  quantity  of 
catsup  used  with  the  peppers  will  depend 
on  individual  taste.  This  sauce  is  good 
with  lobster,  scallops,  or  fresh  tomatoes. 

Deviled  Crackers 

To  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mustard  add 
Worcestershire  sauce  to  form  a  paste; 
stir  this  paste  into  three  tablespoon fuls 
of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream;  add  also 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika  or  half  that 
quantity  of  cayenne.  Spread  the  mixture 
on  thin  crackers  and  set  the  crackers  into 
the  oven  to  become  hot  and  colored 
121 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


slightly.     Serve  hot  with  celery,  cheese, 
olives  or  tomato  soup. 

Chaudfroid  of  Poached  Eggs 
Cook  fresh-laid  eggs  by  steaming  them 
in  round  shallow  cups  or  by  poaching 
them  directly  in  water  just  below  the 
boiling  point.  For  five  eggs  make  a  cup 
of  chaudfroid  sauce  and  a  cup  of  aspic 
jelly.  Cover  the  eggs,  chilled  and  set  on 
a  plate  or  board,  with  the  sauce,  decorate 
with  small  figures  cut  from  thin  slices 
of  truffle,  then  cover  the  whole  with 
aspic  just  on  the  point  of  "setting."  In 
the  center  of  a  serving  dish  set  a  lemon 
■cut  in  lengthwise  eighths,  and  surround 
with  the  eggs  and  thick  slices  of  tomato, 
cut  in  quarters  and  each  holding  a  round- 


fourth  a  cup  of  cold  water,  stir  until  the 
gelatine  is  melted,  then  let  cool  and  use 
as  directed  above. 

Aspic  Jelly  for  Poached  Eggs 
Soften  one-fourth  a  package  of  gela- 
tine in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  cold  water, 
then  dissolve  in  one  cup  of  clarified  and 
highly  seasoned  chicken  broth. 

Tuna  Salad 

Separate  the  cooked  (canned)  fish  into 
large  flakes  or  pieces ;  dispose  them  on 
carefully  washed  and  dried  lettuce 
leaves ;  pour  over  a  pint  or  a  can  of  fish, 
five  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  onion  juice,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pap- 


CHAUDFROID  OF  POACHED  EGGS 


ing  teaspoonful  of  mayonnaise ;  at  equal 
intervals,  near  the  edge,  set  choice  olives 
(trim  the  stem  end  that  they  may  stand 
level)  and  fill  in  with  lettuce  shredded 
in  narrow  ribbons.  Serve  as  a  first 
•course  at  luncheon  or  dinner.  An  egg, 
a  piece  of  tomato,  an  olive,  a  little  let- 
tuce and  a  section  of  lemon  constitute 
one  service. 

Chaudfroid  Sauce 

Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  in 
it  cook  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and 
one-fourth  a  teaspoonful.  each,  of  salt 
and  pepper ;  add  one  cup  of  rich  chicken 
broth,  thin  cream,  rich  milk  or  tomato 
puree;  stir  until  boiling;  add  one-fourth 
3  package  of  gelatine  softened  in  one- 


rika  and  a  scant  half  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
beaten  together  until  thick  and  creamy. 
At  the  center  of  the  mound  of  fish  set  a 
tablespoonful  of  mayonnaise  dressing; 
sprinkle  the  mayonnaise  thick  with 
pickled  beets,  chopped  fine,  also  set  a 
teaspoonful  of  the  chopped  beets,  at  in- 
tervals, entirely  around  the  mound  of 
fish.  Capers  may  be  used  in  place  of  the 
beets. 

Tuna  Au  Gratin  in  Shells 
Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  in 
it  cook  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and 
half  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  pap- 
rika, then  add  one  cup  of  chicken  broth 
(seasoned  with  vegetables  and  sweet 
herbs),  or  of  milk,  and  stir  until  boiling. 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES  123 

Add  one  can  of  tuna  picked  fine  with  a  when  made  of  Golden  Bantam  sweet 
stiver  fork  and  additional  seasoning  as  com.  Score  the  kernels,  with  a  sharp 
needed;  mix  thoroughly  and  dispose  in     knife,  lengthwise  the  rows  of  corn,  then 


TUNA  SALAD 


buttered  shells.  Cover  with  a  cup  of 
cracker  crumbs  mixed  with  one-third  a 
cup  of  melted  butter.  Set  into  the  oven 
to  become  very  hot  and  brown  the 
crumbs.  Set  a  sprig  of  parsley  or  a 
paper  aigrette  in  the  center  of  the  mix- 
ture in  each  shell. 

Panned  Chicken 
Clean  and  separate  a  young  chicken 
into  pieces  at  the  joints.  Put  the  chicken 
into  a  baking  pan,  add  a  cup  of  boiling 
water,  cover  close  and  let  cook  about  an 
hour  and  a  half.  Baste  each  fifteen  min- 
utes with  melted  butter  and  the  liquid  in 
the  pan.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made  of 
the  cooking  liquid  and  cream,  and  with 
com  fritters  or  Southern  corn  bread. 


with  the  back  of  the  knife  press  out  the 
pulp.  The  pulp  should  be  quite  consist- 
ent. To  one  cup  of  this  pulp,  add  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  light,  half  a 
teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  black  pe}'- 
per,  one  cup  of  pastry  flour,  with  one 
and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder  and,  lastly,  the  whites  of  two 
e^s  beaten  dry.  Take  up  the  mixture 
by  tablespoon fuls  and  with  a  teaspoon 
scrape  into  a  kettle  of  hot  fat ;  let  cook 
until  brown  on  both  sides,  turning  sev- 
eral times,  meanwhile.  Drain  on  soft 
paper.     Serve  at  once. 

China  Chilo 
Purchase  two  pounds  of  the  "scrag" 
end    (neck)   of  yearling  lamb;  cut  the 


TUNA  All  GR.\TIX  IN  SHELLS 


Green  Corn  Fritters 
These   fritters  are   particularly   good 


meat  in  small  pieces,  discarding  all  su- 
perfluous fat;  to  the  meat  add  two 
onions  cut  in  thin  slices,  one  head  of  let- 


124 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


tuce,  washed  and  cut  in  shreds,  and  one 
pint  of  boiling  water;  heat  to  the  boiling 
point,  then  let  simmer  about  three  hours 
or  until  the  meat  is  tender,  adding  a  little 
water,  from  time  to  time,  if  necessary. 
About  half  an  hour  before  the  cooking 
is  done  add  a  cup  of  green  Lima  beans 
and,  also,  salt  and  pepper  as  is  needed  to 
season  the  dish.  When  done  there 
should  not  be  a  large  quantity  of  broth. 

Veal  Loaf 
Chop  fine  (use  a  food  chopper)  one 
pound  and  a  half  of  veal  steak,  and  about 
two  ounces  of  fat  salt  pork  or  bacon; 
add  one  egg  and  the  yolk  of  another 
beaten  light,  one  pimento,  chopped  fine, 
a  tablespoonful  of  fine-chopped  parsley. 


of  paprika  and  as  much  thick  cream  as 
can  be  mixed  through  the  meat  without 
making  it  too  soft  to  handle.  Wet  the 
hands  in  cold  water  and  form  the  meat 
into  six  or  more  cutlet  shapes.  These 
should  be  less  than  half  an  inch  thick, 
Pat  these  on  both  sides  in  flour  and  saute 
in  hot  fat  tried  out  of  fat  salt  pork. 
When  browned  on  one  side  turn  to 
brown  the  other  side. 

Stewed  Tomatoes  and  Corn 
Peel  four  or  five  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  in 
slices  and  set  over  the  fire  to  simmer 
gently  until  the  water  is  somewhat  evap- 
orated and  the  pulp  is  tender ;  add  about 
half  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  paprika  or 
black  pepper,  and  salt,  and  half  a  cup 


VEAL  LOAF  WITH  POTATO  SALAD 


half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  thyme, 
two  tablespoon  fuls  of  thick  cream  or 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  sauce  (cream,  to- 
mato or  similar  sauce)  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful, each,  of  salt  and  paprika,  a  grating 
of  nutmeg,  and  two  crackers  rolled  fine ; 
mix  all  together  in  a  compact  roll ;  set 
into  a  baking  pan  on  a  slice  of  salt  pork, 
with  a  slice  of  pork  above.  Bake  about 
two  hours,  basting  often  with  hot  fat ; 
reduce  the  heat  after  fifteen  minutes. 
Serve  cold,  sliced  thin,  with  potato  or 
green  salads. 

Veal  Cutlets,  Pojarski  Style 
Run  one  pound  of  veal,  freed  of  all 
unedible  portions,  through  a  meat  chop- 
per, twice.     Add  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful,  or  more. 


of  green  com  pulp  and  let  cook  about  six 
minutes,  covered.  Add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  in  little  bits,  and  serve  at 
once. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes  and  Com 
In  a  buttered  baking  dish,  dispose  al- 
ternate layers  of  soft  sifted  bread 
crumbs,  sliced  tomatoes  and  green  corn 
cut  from  the  cob.  Season  with  scraped 
onion,  fine-chopped  green  pepper  and 
salt.  Have  the  last  layer  of  tomatoes; 
cover  with  three- fourths  a  cup  of  cracker 
crumbs  mixed  with  one-third  a  cup  of 
melted  butter.  Let  cook  about  half  an 
hour. 

Tomato  Salad  with  Green  Com 
Mayonnaise 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


VEAL  CUTLETS.    POJARSKI.    WITH  STRING  BEANS 


Set  slices  of  cold  peeled  tomatoes  on 
lettuce  hearts.  Serve  with  mayonnaise 
dressing,  into  a  cup  of  which  one-half  a 
cup  of  cooked  pulp  of  green  com  has 
been  stirred.  Discard  the  hulls;  score 
the  kernels  lengthwise  of  the  rows  and 
with  the  back  of  a  knife  press  out  the 
pulp.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point,  let  sim- 
mer six  minutes,  then  let  chill  and  use. 

Broiled  Egg-Plant 

Cut  the  e|^-plant  in  halves,  let^hwise, 
then  cut  each  half  in  slices  half  an  inch 
thick  and  remove  the  peel ;  brush  over 
with  olive  oil  or  melted  butter,  and  pat 
in  sifted,  soft  bread  crumbs  seasoned 
with  salt  and  paprika.  Broil  over  a  mod- 
erate fire  eight  to  ten  minutes,  turning 
often.  Set  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  dot,  here  and  there, 
with  bits  of  butter. 

Stuffed  Egg-Plant 

Cut  the  egg-plant  in  halves,  length- 
wise, and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  tender.     Drain  carefully,  then  re- 


move the  pulp,  to  leave  two  thin  shells. 
Chop  hne  half  a  small  mild  onion,  and 
let  cook  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
until  softened  and  slightly  yellowed ; 
chop  the  pulp  of  the  e^-plant  and  six 
fresh  mushrooms,  (or  the  equivalent  in 
dried  mushrooms  soaked  in  cold  water), 
add  the  onion,  half  a  cup  or  more  of 
line-chopped,  cooked  meat  or  nuts ;  sea- 
son as  needed  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
use  to  fill  the  shells.  Cover  the  filling 
with  three-fourths  a  cup  of  cracker 
crumbs  mixed  with  one-third  a  cup  of 
melted  butter  and  let  cook  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce.  The 
mixture  may  be  baked  in  a  shallow  dish 
instead  of  the  shells. 

Stuffed  Beet  Salad 

Cut  the  centers  from  small,  tender, 
cooked  beets,  to  make  thin,  neat-looking 
cups.  For  each  cup  chop  fine  two  olives 
and  half  a  stalk  of  tender  celery  (inner 
stalks),  mix  with  French  or  mayonnaise 
dressing,  seasoned  with  onion  juice,  and 
use  to  fill  the  cups.    Roll  a  small  flow- 


B  ROIL  ED  EGG  PLANT 


126 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


eret  of  cooked  cauliflower  in  dressing 
and  set  above  the  filling  in  the  cups. 
Serve  on  heart-leaves  of  lettnce  seasoned 
with  French  dressing.  A  green  cucum- 
ber may  he  used  in  place  of  the  olives 
either  with  or  without  the  celery. 

Pimento-and-Cheese  Salad 
Cut  Neufchatel  or  Philadelphia  cream 
cheese  in  small  cubes.  Rinse  canned 
pimentos  in  cold  water;  drain  and  dry 
on  a  cloth.  Cut  the  tops  of  the  pimentos 
in  Vandykes  (points)  and  fill  with  the 
cheese  and  trimmings  of  the  peppers  cut 
in  small  pieces.  Set  these  on  heart-leaves 
of  lettuce.  Finish  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
mayonnaise  above  the  cheese  or  around 
the  pimentos.    Serve  with  bread  or  rolls 


gether  and  cut  them  in  cubes.  In  a  but- 
tered baking  dish  mix  the  cubes  of  bread 
with  a  pimento,  cut  in  small  squares,  and 
two-thirds  a  cup  of  sliced  or  chopped 
cheese.  Beat  two  eggs ;  add  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  two  cups  of  rich 
milk,  mix  and  turn  over  the  bread,  etc. 
Bake  in  a  verj-  moderate  oven  until  the 
pudding  is  well  puffed  and  the  egg  is  set. 
Serve  hot  with  preen  salad  or  cooked  fruit. 

Cream  Pie 
Beat  one-third  a  cup  of  butter  to  a 
cream ;  gradually  beat  in  one  cup  of 
sugar;  add  two  eggs,  beaten  light,  half 
a  cup  of  milk  and  one  cup  and  a  half 
of  sifted  pastry  flour,  sifted  again  with 
half  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one 


PIMENTO-AND-CHEE5B  SALAD 


as  the  chief  dish  at  luncheon  or  supper. 
Apple-and-Pimento  Salad 
Pare  six  tart  apples  and  cut  them  in 
Julienne  shreds  or  in  small  squares. 
Squeeze  over  them  the  juice  of  a  lemon ; 
add  one  or  two  pimentos,  rinsed  in  cold 
water,  drained  and  dried  on  a  cloth  and 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Mix  six  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  oil  with  a  scant  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  and  a  dash  of  paprika  and 
turn  over  the  apples  and  peppers.  Toss 
together  lightly.  Serve  on  crisp  heart- 
leaves  of  lettuce  with  roast  or  broiled 
meats  or  with  cheese  custard,  croquettes, 
etc. 

Cheese  Pudding  with  Pimento 

Butter   two   thick    (three- fourths    an 

inch)   slices  of  bread,  put  the  slices  to- 


slightly  rounding  teaspoonful  of  cream- 
of-tartar.  Bake  in  two  layer  cake-pans ; 
.put  the  layers  together  with  an  English 
cream  filling.  Sprinkle  the  top  layer 
with  sifted  confectioner's  sugar,  or 
spread  with  confectioner's  frosting. 

English  Cream  Filling 
Scald  one  cup  of  milk  over  hot  water ; 
stir  one-third  a  cup  of  flour  with  one- 
third  a  cup  of  cold  milk  to  a  smooth 
paste,  then  cook  in  the  hot  milk,  stirring 
until  the  mixture  thickens;  cover  and 
let  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Beat  one  egg; 
add  one  half-cup  (scant)  of  sugar,  and 
beat  again ;  add  also  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  and  stir  into  the  hot 
mixture.  Continue  to  stir  until  the  egg 
is  set.  When  cool  add  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  vanilla. 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


\  WHEAT  MUFFINS 


Confectioner's  Frosting 

Melt  once  ounce  of  chocolate;  add 
two  tablespoon fu Is  of  sugar  and  three 
tahlespoonfuls  of  boiling  water  and  cook 
till  smooth.  Add  a  little  more  water,  if 
necessary;  then  stir  in  sifted  confec- 
tioner's sugar  as  needed.  For  a  change, 
stir  sifted  confectioner's  sugar  into  a 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  mixed  with 
several  tahlespoonfuls  of  strawberry  or 
raspberry  juice. 

Mint  Jelly,  with  Green  Grapes 
Pick  green  grapes  from  the  stems; 
add  half  a  cup  of  water  to  keep  them 
from  burning,  cover  and  let  simmer  un- 
til tender,  then  drain  in  a  bag.  Reheat 
the  juice  with  a  bunch  of  mint;  let  sim- 
mer ten  minutes;  remove  the  mint  and 
add  a  cup  of  sugar,  made  hot  in  the 
oven,  for  each  cup  of  juice.     Let  boil 


till  thick  or  until  it  jellies  on  a  cold  dish. 
Tint  delicately  with  green  color-paste; 
skim  as  needed  and  turn  into  hot  glasses. 
If  the  mint  be  crushed  before  it  is  added 
to  the  juice,  a  stronger  mint  flavor  is 
assured. 

Entire  Wheat  Bread 
To  mix  at  night,  soften  one-third  a 
cake  of  compressed  yeast  in  half  a  cup 
of  lukewarm  water,  and  mix  thoroughly. 
To  two  cups  of  scalded  milk  or  water, 
or  part  of  each,  add  two  tahlespoonfuls 
of  shortening,  two  tahlespoonfuls,  or 
more,  of  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt ;  when  lukewarm  add,  the  yeast,  four 
cups  of  entire  wheat  flour  and  enough 
white  flour  to  make  a  dough  that  may 
be  kneaded.  Knead  until  smooth  and 
elastic,  then  set  aside  in  a  temperature 
of  about  70°  F.  until  doubled  in  bulk. 
Shape  into  four  rounds,  and  set  these  in 


ENTIRE  WHEAT  BREAD 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE,  MAI 

two  greased  pans.    When  nearly  doubled 
in  bulk  bake  one  hour. 

Chocolate  Cake 

Beat  half  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream ; 
gradually  beat  in  half  a  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  sifted 
brown  sugar,  then  add  one  ounce  of 
melted  chocolatb,  the  beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  cream,  one-fourth  a  cup  of  milk, 
two  cups  of  flour  with  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  half  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  cin- 
namon and  mace  and  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful of  cloves.  Lastly,  beat  in  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  dry.  Bake  in 
a  sheet  about  twenty-five  minutes.  Cover 
with  marshmallow  frosting. 


^HMALLOW  FKOSTING 

Marshmallow  Frosting 

Cook  one  cup  and  a  half  of  brown  su- 
gar, one-fourth  a  cup,  each,  of  butter 
and  boiling  water  until  it  forms  a  soft 
ball  when  tested  in  cold  water.  Melt  half 
a  pound  of  marshmallows  over  boiling 
water ;  add  to  the  first  mixture  and  beat 
until  thick  enough  to  spread  over  the 
cake.  Just  before  spreading  add  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Peach  Gateau 
Cut  sponge  cake  in  thin  slices ;  pare 
and  slice  ripe  peaches,  sprinkle  with  su- 
gar as  needed.  In  a  glass  dish  dispose 
alternate  layers  of  cake  and  the  peaches, 
with  cream  or  cold  boiled  custard. 


PEACH  GATEAU 


< 

Q 


< 

O 

o 

s 


< 

Q 


< 

Q 
(^ 
ID 
H 
< 


Menus  for  a  Week  in  August 

Live  on  plain  foods,  and  eat  fruit  freely. 


Breakfast 

Sliced  Peaches  Parker  House  Rolls 

Fried  Mush        Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Melon  Cocktail 

Panned  Guinea  Hen 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Southern  Style 

Garden  Cress-and-Tomato  Salad 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin 

Sliced  Peaches,  Sugared 

Ladyfingers      Macaroons 

Half  Cups  of  Coflfee 

Supper 

Stewed  Tomatoes  and  Corn 

Mayonnaise  of  Eggs  and  Tomatoes 

Whole  Wheat  Bread 

Berries  Tea 


Breakfast 

Raspberries 

Dry  Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Broiled  Bacon  Creamed  Potatoes 

Fried  Rice,  Honey  Syrup 

Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Hamburg  Steak,  Maitre  d'Hotel   Butter 

(Chopped  at  home) 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Summer  Squash 

Garden  Cress,  French  Dressing 

Blueberry  Pie  Half  Cups  of  CoflFee 

Supper 

Tomato-and-Lamb  Soup 

Deviled  Crackers 

Sea  Trout  Salad         Bread  and  Butter 

Apple  Sauce  Tea 


Breakfast 

Dry  Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Eggs  Cooked  in  Shell 

Berries 

CoflFee      Cocoa 

Dinner 
Boiled  Breast  of  Lamb,  Caper  Sauce 

Boiled  Beets,  Buttered 

Corn  on  the  Cob        Boiled  Potatoes 

Baked  Apple  Tapioca  Pudding, 

Thin  Cream 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Shelled  Beans,  Stewed 

Graham  Bread  and  Butter 

Blueberries 

Cookies  Tea 


Breakfast 

Spanish  Omelet 
Brown  Hashed  Potatoes 

Graham  Mufllins 

White   Bread,  Toasted 

Berries,  Thin  Cream  Coffee 

Dinner 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops,  Baked  Potatoes 

String  Beans,  Buttered 

Pickled  Beets 

•  Peach  Ice  Cream  Cookies 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Crumbed  Slices  of  Egg-Plant,  Sauted 

Bread  and  Butter 

Sliced   Peaches 

Cold  Water  Sponge  Cake 

Tea 


Breakfast 

Potato-and-Lamb  Hash 

Sliced  Tomatoes 

Buttered  Toast 

Pop  Overs  Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Sea  Trout,  Bread  Dressing 

Pickle  Sauce 

Scalloped  Egg-Plant 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Cucumber  Salad,  French  Dressing  with 

onion  juice 

New  Apple  Pie  Cream  Cheese 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Succotash 
Baking  Powder  Biscuit 


Berries 


Cookies 


Tea 


Breakfast 

Smoked  Halibut,  Creamed 

Small  Potatoes,   Baked 

Dry  Toast,  Buttered 

Doughnuts 

Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Fresh  Fish  Chowder 

Browned  Crackers 

Sliced.  Pickled  Beets 

Steamed  Blackberry  Pudding 

Blackberry,  Liquid  and  Hard  Sauce 

Tea 

Supper 

Corn  on  the  Cob,  Roasted 

Pimento-and-Cheese  Salad 

Bread  and  Butter 

Sliced  Peaches  Tea 


Breakfast 

Corned  Beef  Hash 

Broiled    Bacon 

Sliced  Tomatoes 

Corn  Meal  Muflfins 

Dry  Toast 

Coffee      Cocoa 


Dinner 

Veal  Cutlets,  Pojarski  Style 

Scalloped  Tomatoes  and  Corn 

Celery 

New  Currant  Jelly 

Peach  Shortcake 
Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

129 


Supper 

Chicken  Omelet 

Potato  Salad 

Drop  Cookies 

Tea 


W 
U 

W 
m 

> 


H 
X 

a 

C/l 

d 

> 


a 

> 


Inexpensive  Menus  for  a  Week  in  September 


Breakfast 

Breakfast 

Cereal,  Milk 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Broiled  Bacon,   Fried  Apples 

Steamed  Eggs  on  Toast 

Dry  Toast 

Sally  Lunn  (reheated) 

Corn  Meal  Muffins 

Apple  Marmalade 

Coffee      Cocoa 

Coffee      Cocoa 

< 

Q 

Dinner 

Dinner 

China  Chilo 

Creamed  Corned  Beef  au  Gratin 

Lettuce,  French  Dressing 

Boiled  Onions,  Buttered 

r  < 

D 

Sliced  Peaches 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

c/) 

Cream  Cake 

Apple  Dumplings 

Tea 

Tea 

Supper 

Supper 

Bread,  Milk 

Shelled  Beans,  Stewed 

Baked  Sweet  Apples 

Rye  Meal  Bread  and  Butter 

Drop  Cookies 

Sliced  Tomatoes 

Tea 

Tea 

<: 

p 

o 


Breakfast 

Frizzled  Dried  Beef 

Stewed  Potatoes  (in  quarters) 

Fried  Cereal  Mush, 

Molasses  or  Caramel  Syrup 

Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Canned  Tuna  (reheated  in  closed  can) 

Egg  Sauce 
Boiled  Potatoes  Boiled  Cabbage 

Cornstarch  Pudding, 
Milk,  Sugar        Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Boiled  Rice.  Milk 

Graham  Bread,  Butter 

Apple  Sauce 

Cheese  Tea 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Milk 
Corned  Beef -and- Potato  Hash 

Green  Cucumbers,  Sliced 
Doughnuts  Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Mock  Bisque  Soup 

Cheese  Pudding 

Corn  on  the  Cob 

Baked  Beets,  Buttered 

Apple  Pie  Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Potato  Salad,  Garnish  of 
Sliced  Eggs  and  Pickled  Beets 

Graham  Bread 
Sliced  Peaches  Tea 


W 
O 

w 

in 

O 
> 


H 
X 
C 

D 
> 


< 

P 
If) 

w 

H 


< 
P 

H 
< 

CO 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Milk 

Green  Corn  (jriddle  Cakes 

Buttered  Graham  Toast 

Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Cream  of  Green  Corn 

Hot  Boiled  Corned  Beef 

Swiss  Chard 

Turnips       Potatoes 

Baked  Apples  Stuffed  with  Raisins 

Milk,  Sugar 

Tea 

Supper 

Hot    Cheese    Sandwiches 

Apple  Sauce 

Drop  Cookies 

Tea 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Milk 

Creamed  Codfish   (salt)   on  Toast 

Doughnuts 

Coffee      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Fresh  Codfish,  Sauted 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Scalloped   Tomatoes   and   Corn 

Grapes 

Supper 

Corn  Custard 

Bread  and  Butter 

Chocolate  Cake 

Tea 


Breakfast 

Cream  Toast 
Fried  Mush,  Molasses  or  Syrup 
Coffee      Cocoa 


Dinner 

Neck  of  Lamb,  Stewed 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Summer  Squash 

Sliced  Tomatoes 

Creamy  Rice  Pudding 

Tea 

130 


»T1 

d 
> 


Supper 

String  Bean  Salad 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit,  Toasted 

Stewed  Crab  Apples 

Gingerbread 

Tea 


Menus  for  Various  Occasions 

CHURCH  SUPPER  SERVED  IN  APRIL 

(B.  W.  H.) 

(Ab6ut  225  covers) 

Oysters  on   Half   Shell,   Horseradish 

Chicken  Patties,  Peas 

Sausages,  Mashed  Potatoes,  Rolls 

Coffee 
Charlotte  Russe  with  Strawberries 

Articles  purchased:  1000  oysters,  225  pattie  t-^,    a „,,«.*  ^^   c^^f^^K^-  «o-  ^-^^v,**   ;« 

shelU  8  rhirkpTm  20  nniind^j  4u«affe  link^  SOO  ^^^  August  or   September  use  peaches  in 

roHs    6  oSs  coffef  4  can^  m^^^  3  aiiarts  P^*^^   °^   strawberries,   and   sardines,   deviled 

n-oi;;    9?n  r>.Lw!  plcf^    Ti™    ?f^o^  crackers  and  olives  or  celery  in  place  of  the 

bS;  (?arni3i)  ^^^^^^  ^"^  horseradish. 

^     ^     ^ 

PHILADELPHIA  CHURCH  SUPPER  FOR  BUSINESS  MEN 

(J.  D.  C) 

Grapefruit  with  Cherries  and  Juice 

Chicken  Croquettes      Cold  Ham 

Scalloped  Potatoes 

Tomato-and-Lettuce  Salad 

Hot  Biscuit 

Coffee 

(Price  Twenty-five  cents) 
^     ^     ^ 

HIGH  TEA  (SEPTEMBER) 
I. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup,  Olives 

Veal  Loaf,  Potato  Salad  ^I- 

Parker  House  Rolls  Celery  Relish 
Peach  Sherbet  Ring  Mold                       Boston  Brown  Bread-and-Butter  Sandwiches 

Center:  Whipped  Cream  on  Chicken  a  la  King 

Peach  Sherbet  in  Glasses  Peach  Gateau 

Whipped  Cream  above  Tea 


Marguerites 
Coffee 


^  ^  ^ 


PICNIC  (AUGUST) 
1. 


II 


Hot  Broiled^aa>n  Wwiches  jj^^  g^^j,^^  La„b  Chops 

^"'"Ili^S^S^H^"™  Sliced^K  iSdwiches 


Watermelon 


HI. 

Chicken  Salad  in  Puff  Cases 

(Chou  paste) 

Olives      New  Pickles 

Boiled  Tongue  Sandwiches 

Savory  Cheese  Sandwiches 

Lemonade      Cold  Coffee 

Sponge  Drops 

Ul 


A  Blackberry  Dessert  and  Its  Many  Variations 


By  Jessamine  Chapman 


DURING  the  berry  season  one 
may  serve  a  different  dessert 
each  day,  making  berries  the 
foundation,  for  there  are  innumerable 
ways  of  serving  this  fruit.  As  a  basis 
for  a  long  list  of  gelatine  desserts  a  plain 
blackberry  jelly  can  be  made. 

The  following  recipes  are  made  with 
three  cups  of  liquid,  or  one  and  one  half 
pints — serving  six  people. 

Blackberry  Mold 

Soak  two  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated 
gelatine  in  one-half  a  cup  of  cold  water. 
Add  hot  syrup  made  of  one  cup  of  sugar 
and  one-half,  a  cup  of  water.  Mash 
enough  berries  to  make  one  and  one  half 
cups  of  juice;  express  juice  and  add  to 
gelatine  mixture.  Add  also  one-half  a 
cup  of  lemon  juice,  to  add  to  the  flavor 
of  the  jelly.  Pour  into  molds,  set  in 
cold  water,  and  chill  until  set.  Serve, 
unmolded,  with  whipped  cream. 

Blackberry  Cubes 

Make  a  blackberry  jelly  as  above, 
pouring  a  thin  layer  in  a  shallow  square 
pan.  Allow  the  mixture  to  partly  set, 
then  arrange  very  large  and  ripe  black- 
berries in  rows  on  the  jelly.  Pour  over 
these  the  remaining  jelly  and  let  chill. 
Cut  in  cubes,  each  containing  a  whole 
berry.  Serve,  piled  on  a  plate,  and  gar- 
nish with  whipped  cream  put  through  the 
pastry  bag. 


Blackberry  Cocoanut  Cubes 

Roll  cubes  of  blackberry  jelly,  made  as 
above,  in  shredded  cocoanut,  covering 
them  thickly.  Serve  in  a  basket  made  of 
sponge  cake  from  which  the  center  has 
been  removed.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

I.     Blackberry  Jelly  Varied  by 
Adding  Eggs  and  Cream 

Blackberry  Sponge 

To  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten 
stiff,  add  the  blackberry  jelly  which  has 
been  beaten  light  and  thick  with  the 
Dover  egg-beater.  Mold.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  or  with  custard  made  of 
the  yolks  of  eggs  and  one  pint  of  milk. 

Blackberry  Marshmallows 

Mold  Blackberry  Sponge  in  a  shallow 
tin.  Cut  in  cubes,  when  set,  and  serve  in 
a  basket  of  cake,  made  as  above. 

Blackberry  Toasted  Marsh- 
mallows 

Roll  cubes  in  powdered  macaroons  or 
ground  nuts.  These  look  like  real  toasted 

marshmallows. 

Blackberry  Spanish  Cream 

Soak  one  tablespoonful  of  granulated 
gelatine  in  one-half  a  cup  of  cold  black- 
berry juice;  heat  one  and  one-half  cups 


132 


A  BLACKBERRY  DESSERT 


133 


of  blackberry  juice;  add  one  cup  of 
sugar  and  the  soaked  gelatine.  Pour 
over  four  yolks  of  eggs,  slightly  beaten. 
Cook  in  double-boiler  until  thick  like  a 
custard,  stirring  constantly.  Cool,  add 
one-half  a  cup  of  lemon  juice  and  fold 
in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 
Turn  into  wet  molds  and  let  chill. 
Serve,  unmolded;  garnish  with  whipped 
cream  and  whole  blackberries. 

Blackberry  Bavarian  Cream 

Heat  one  and  one  half  cups  of  black- 
berry juice  and  pour  over  four  egg  yolks, 
slightly  beaten,  with  one  cup  of  sugar 
and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Cook  mixture  in  double-boiler  until 
thickened.  Remove  from  fire;  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  gelatine  softened  in  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  the  cold  fruit  juice. 
When  cold  and  beginning  to  set,  whip 
with  the  Dover  egg-beater  and  then  fold 
in  two  cups  of  cream,  whipped  stiff. 
Turn  in  a  mold  and  let  chill.  It  should 
have  a  spongy  texture.  Do  not  use  any 
of  the  cream  that  has  drained  through 
in  whip. 

Blackberry  Parfait 

Soak  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  in 
one-half  a  cup  of  cold  blackberry  juice. 
Heat  one  and  one  half  cups  of  juice  with 
one  cup  of  sugar  to  make  a  thick  syrup ; 


add  softened  gelatine  and  pour  on  the 
whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Con- 
tinue beating  until  the  mixture  is  cool. 
Add  one-half  a  cup  of  lemon  juice  and 
two  cups  of  cream,  beaten  stiff.  Pack 
mold  in  equal  measures  of  ice  and  salt, 
and  let  stand  four  hours.  Unmold  and 
garnish  with  whole  blackberries. 

II.     Blackberry  Jelly,  Varied  by 

Adding  Cream 

Blackberry  Charlotte 

Soak  two  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated 
gelatine  in  one-half  a  cup  of  blackberry 
juice.  Add  one-half  a  cup  of  hot  juice, 
to  which  has  been  added  one  cup  of 
sugar.  Add  one-fourth  a  cup  of  lemon 
juice,  when  cool,  and  one  cup  of  black- 
berry juice.  When  the  mixture  begins 
to  harden,  beat  until  light ;  add  the  whip 
from  two  cups  of  cream,  and  beat  until 
stiff  enough  to  drop.  Mold.  Serve  with 
a  garnish  of  whipped  cream  and  whole 
berries. 

Blackberry  Mousse 

Soak  two  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  in 
one-half  a  cup  of  blackberry  juice.  Add 
a  syrup  made  of  one  and  one-half  cups 
of  blackberry  juice  and  one  cup  of  sugar. 
Beat  until  cool,  then  fold  in  two  cups  of 
cream,    whipped    stiff.     Pour    in    mold, 


Materialfl 

Blackberry  Blackberry 
Jelly           Sponge 

Blackberry 

Spanish 

Cream 

Blackberry 

Bavarian 

Cream 

Blackberry 
Parfait 

Blackberry 
Charlotte 

Blackberry 
Mousse 

Gdaiine 

2  table- 

2 table- 

1 table- 

1 table- 

1 table- 

2 table- 

2 table- 

spoons 

spoons 

spoon 

spoon 

spoon 

spoons 

spoons 

Cold  water  or  fruit 
juice 

i  cup  of 
water 

i  cup 
water 

i  cup 
juice 

4  cup 
juice 

1  cup 
juice 

4  cup 
juice 

J  cup 
juice 

Hot  fruit  juice 

i  cup 

i  cup 

^ 

i  cup 

i  cup 

}  cup 

Sugar 

1  cup 

1  cup 

1  cup 

1  cup 

1  cup 

1  cup 

1  cup 

Blackberry  juice 

1)  cups 

1}  cups 

li  cups 

H  cups 

1  i  cups 

1}  cups 

Lemon  juice 

i  cup 

i  cup 

i  cup 

1  cup 

i  cup 

1  table- 
spoon 

i  cup 

Egg  yolks 

4 

4 

Egg  whites 

6 

4 

4 

Whipped  cream 

4  cups 

4  cups 

4  cups 

4  cups 

Salt 

}  tea- 
spoon 

i  tea- 
spoon 

i  tea- 
spoon 

i  tea- 
spoon 

i  tea- 
spoon 

J  tea- 
spoon 

134 


THE  BOSTON  COOKlNG-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


seal  well,  and  pack  in  equal  measures  of 
ice  and  salt.    Let  stand  four  hours. 

On  examination  of  these  various  black- 
berry, gelatine  recipes,  it  will  be  noticed 
that  the  proportions  of  ingredients  are 
fairly  constant  for  all,  and  that  there  are 
three  distinct  steps  in  the  combining  of 
ingredients : — first,  softening  the  gelatine 
in  cold  juice;  second,  adding  the  hot  juice 
to  which  sugar  has  been  added;  third, 
adding  either  beaten  eggs  or  cream  or 
both,  when  cooled. 

In  the  table,  note  that  the  amount  of 
gelatine  is  decreased  where  a   custard 


foundation  using  eggs  is  introduced. 

The  sugar  may  be  increased  or  dimin- 
ished according  to  taste  and  the  charac- 
ter of  the  additional  ingredients. 

Lemon  juice  is  used  in  every  recipe  to 
bring  out  the  flavor,  but  may  be  reduced 
in  amount  if  desired. 

Salt  is  needed,  especially  in  the  recipes 
where  cream  is  used. 

Only  two  recipes  require  packing  in 
ice  and  salt  to  freeze;  namely,  the  Par- 
fait  and  the  Mousse.  The  others  will 
chill  sufficiently  in  the  ice  box,  or  sooner 
in  pans  of  cracked  ice. 


Keeping  House  in  the  Margins  of  the  Day 

By  Ruth  Lincoln 


THESE  days  housekeepers  the 
country  over  are  learning  the 
significance  of  the  word  "effi- 
ciency." They  have  discovered  that  it 
represents  the  same  principle  that  their 
husbands  have  of  late  years  applied  to 
various  lines  of  business  with  ever  in- 
creasing profit.  They  are  coming  to 
see  that  the  old  fifteen-hour  "day"  for 
them  can  be  cut  down  by  "system"  and 
that  a  tremendous  amount  of  waste 
time  and  energy  has  been  the  definite 
cause  of  the  long  period  of  toil  they 
have  undergone. 

Now,  if  the  wise  utilization  of  every 
minute  and  every  movement  counts 
with  the  woman  whose  sole  business  it 
is  to  run  a  house,  it  certainly  means 
more  to  one  who  is  forced  to  do  her 
house  work  in  the  edges  of  the  day,  as 
are  so  many  twentieth  century  women  of 
business.  Every  year  more  and  more 
of  them  are  saying  farewell  to  board- 
ing houses  and  setting  up  their  own 
establishments. 

When  I  first  went  to  housekeeping 
in  a  four-room  apartment  with  a  girl 
partner  a  year  ago,  everybody,  includ- 
ing ourselves,  regarded  it  as  a  rash  ex- 
periment.   We  were  both  employed  all 


day  and  must  leave  the  house  at  8:30 
in  the  morning  not  to  return  until 
nearly  6  at  night.  Our  plan  was  to 
cook  and  serve  two  meals  daily  and 
keep  the  house  clean  and  orderly. 

"There  arfe  so  many  things  that  use 
up  your  time  that  you  don't  realize 
until  you  get  into  it,"  a  married  friend 
warned  us.  "I  don't  see  how  you  can 
ever  manage  when  you  are  tired  out 
at  night." 

Such  discouragement  deterred  us 
from  a  heavy  investment  in  furniture, 
as  we  did  not  know  how  long  we  could 
keep  it  up,  and  right  here  we  learned 
one  of  the  great  lessons  of  labor  sav- 
ing, viz :  to  have  as  little  furniture  and 
as  plain  furniture  as  possible.  Every 
additional  piece,  we  realized  to  our 
sorrow,  meant  additional  care  and  ad- 
ditional dusting  and  sweeping.  We 
carefully  avoided  any  carved  surfaces, 
and  placed  on  the  floor  only  rugs  small 
enough  to  be  easily  shaken.  Our  hall 
runner  was  of  grass  carpeting. 

We  decided  to  divide  the  night  labor 
by  taking  turns  alternate  weeks.  This 
gave  one  of  us  seven  evenings  entirely 
free  out  of  fourteen  and  proved  a  very 
satisfactory  arrangement.  In  the  morn- 


KEEPING  HOUSE  IN  MARGINS  OF  DAY 


135 


ings  we  worked  together. 

To  revert  to  cleaning,  which  is  ac- 
ceded to  be  the  hardest  part  of  house- 
keeping. Counting  the  hall  and  bath 
we  had  six  rooms,  one  of  which  we  as- 
signed to  each  week-day.  In  the  morn- 
ing of  that  day  one  room  was  cleaned, 
mopped  and  dusted  with  chemical 
mops.  The  whole  operation  seldom 
took  over  twenty  minutes  of  hustling, 
for  we  provided  ourselves  with  every 
device  we  could  find  in  the  department 
stores  for  making  the  labor  lighter. 
We  had  mops  to  go  under  the  bath 
tub  and  radiators,  mops  with  short 
handles  for  sinks  and  tubs^  dustless 
dustcloths,  etc.  The  other  rooms  had 
a  daily  "lick  and  a  promise,"  and,  as  we 
were  out  of  them  all  day,  this  kept 
down  dust  and  preserved  order,  and  we 
were  left  without  the  fatigue  of  thor- 
oughly cleaning  the  house  once  a 
week. 

In  the  mornings  we  stripped  our 
couch  beds  and  left  them  airing,  to 
shock  family  traditions. 

As  time  went  on  we  learned  many 
things  of  value  about  the  preparation 
of  our  meals.  Our  menus  we  prepared 
for  seven  days  on  Saturday  nights  and 
stuck  to  them  religiously.  Saturday 
night  we  also  bought  a  week's  supply 
of  groceries.  We  could  have  saved 
money  by  buying  in  larger  quantities, 
but  we  had  so  little  kitchen  space  that 
it  did  not  seem  advisable.  This  left  us 
to  purchase  daily  only  meat  and  fruit. 
Our  milk  came  each  morning.  As  we 
made  these  purchases  on  our  way 
home  from  work,  it  did  not  seem  to  be 
a  burden. 

Around  the  kitchen  range  we 
screwed  hooks  within  easy  reach  and 
there  hung  everything  we  used  about 
the  stove,  toaster,  frying  pan,  egg 
poacher,  agate  kettles,  etc.  The  dif- 
ference between  having  them  there  and 
nicely  stowed  away  on  a  remote  shelf 
was  a  revelation  to  us. 

We  kept  a  small  dressmakers'  fold- 
ing table  in  the*  kitchen,  over  which  we 


placed  a  spotless  cover  and  ate  our 
breakfasts  there,  where  we  could  actu- 
ally reach  everything  necessary  from  our 
seats.  We  also  had  in  the  kitchen  a 
high  stool  upon  which  we  could  perch 
when  washing  dishes,  paring  potatoes, 
or  any  similar  task  For  our  dinners 
we  were  forced  to  broil  most  of  our 
meats,  but  Saturday  nights  and  Sun- 
days we  had  a  roast.  'We  always  had 
a  vegetable  and  salad  besides  potatoes, 
and  the  work  of  preparing  dinner  and 
clearing  it  away  we  kept  down  to  an 
hour.  We  made  many  a  cake  or  pud- 
ding or  other  desert  in  the  evenings 
and  we  bought  nothing  from  the  bak- 
ery except  bread.  We  have  certainly 
grown  fat  and  vigorous  on  this  diet. 

We  had  house  dresses  and  big  all- 
over  aprons  into  which  we  could  shift 
easily. 

We  kept  accounts  strictly  and  facil- 
itated this  by  keeping  a  big  calendar, 
with  generous  white  spaces  about  the 
figures,  hung  close  beside  the  dumb 
waiter  up  which  our  purchases  always 
came.  From  this  a  pencil  was  strung 
and  we  made  the  entry  at  once,  later 
transferring  to  the  account  book.  We 
also  kept  a  pad  and  pencil  tied  to  the 
laundry  bag  and  entered  each  soiled 
article  as  soon  as  it  was  cast  aside, 
thus  making  our  list  complete  as  we 
went  along. 

We  had  a  card  catalogue  of  recipes 
which  we  collected  from  various 
sources.  It  was  easier  for  us  to  type- 
write them  than  to  copy  in  the  old- 
fashioned  way  and  proved  much  more 
convenient  to  use. 

We  set  apart  one  night  each  week 
to  be  "at  home"  to  callers,  besides  Sun- 
day afternoons,  when  we  kept  open 
house. 

We  kept  constantly  in  mind  the 
thought  of  making  no  false  movements 
and  the  necessity  of  losing  no  time. 
We  have  tried  to  avoid  all  hunting  by 
having  a  fixed  place  for  everything. 

It  seems  to  us  that  the  whole  secret 
lies  in  having  the  furnishings  as  simple 


136 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


as  possible  and  in  doing  a  little  work 
regularly. 

Our  investment  in  furniture  cost  us 
$65.00,  or  $32.50,  each. 

The  following  time  schedule  speaks 
for  itself: 

7  to  8:30  A.  M.  is    90  minutes 
Rise  7,  wash,  dress,  arrange  hair      20  minutes 
Get  breakfast  ]  one 

Do  room          J  other  25 

Eat  breakfast  20 

Clear  away  10 

Dress  for  office  IS 


90 


6  to  7:45  P.  M.  is  105  minutes 

15 
10 
20 
30 
30 


Start  dinner 

Change  dress 

Finish  preparing  dinner 

Eat 

Clear  away  dishes 


Our  rent  was  $22.00 

Food  20.00 

Gas  1.50 

Laundry  2.00 


105 


2  )  45.50 
$22.75,  each,  per  month 

Our  personal  expenses,  in  addition  to 
this,  were  car  fare,  laundry  and 
lunches,  all  of  which  would  have  been 
the  same,  had  we  been  boarding,  and 
we  feel  that  to  live  as  comfortably  as 
we  do  in  New  York  City  for  so  small 
an  amount  is  beating  out  the  high  cost 
of  living.  We  feel,  too,  that  wherever 
we  may  go,  in  large  or  small  cities,  we 
can  in  the  same  way  insure  a  whole- 
some living  for  a  price  within  our 
means.  Perhaps  others  may  be  encour 
aged  to  try  the  experiment. 


College  G>oking 


When  Helen  left  her  classic  Cicero, 
And   stopped   her   Greek  and   Logic   for 
awhile. 
To    wield    the    rolling-pin    and    knead    the 
dough, 
The  Profs  indulged  in  a  sarcastic  smile. 
We  thought  it  just  a  fad, 
A  fancy  that  she  had, 
We  thought  her  only  playing  with  a  brand 
new  cookery  book. 
But  the  cook  book's  worn  and  frayed, 
And  our  valiant  little  maid 
Is  heroically  proving  that  the  College  girl 
can  cook. 

When   Daisy   donned    an   apron,   frilled    and 
neat. 
With  a  dainty  cap  upon  her  curly  head, 
'*She  likes  cooking  'cause  the  outfit  looks 
so  sweet, 
'Twill    tire    her    soon,"    triumphantly   we 
said. 
But  she  stuck  to  it  like  glue, 
Resolved  to  see  it  through, 
Her  orders   like   a   soldier   obediently   she 
took; 
With  fingers  cut  and  burnt. 
New  recipes  she  learnt, 
Till  we  cannot  help  admitting  that  the  Col- 
lege girl  can  cook. 


We  joked  about  her  heavy  soggy  cake. 
And  her  biscuit  that  were  like  a  cannon- 
ball; 
We  said  that  the  Pure  Food  law  ought  to 
make 
Her  put  a  label  "Danger"  on  them  all. 
But  she  let  us  have  our  laugh, 
Calmly  overlooked  our  chaff, 
And  her  culinary  labors  not  for  one  hour 
forsook. 
But  she  nobly  cooked  away. 
And  we  eat  her  cake  today 
As    we    grudgingly   acknowledge    that   the 
College  girl  can  cook. 

Now  when   a  young  man's  looking  for   a 
wife,  he  doesn't  try 
To  choose  her  for  the  Latin  in  her  head. 
Not,  "Can  she  work  quadratics?"  but  "Can 
she  make  a  pie?" 
He    asks;    "And    is    it    safe    to    eat    her 
bread?" 
So,  though  Latin's  useful,  yet. 
Education,  don't  forget. 
Doesn't  all  depend  on  what  you  get  from 
lecture-rooms  and  books; 
But  it's  cooking  counts  today. 
And  a  College  course  will  pay 
All  honor  to  the  vindicated  Co-ed  Cooks! 

Mary  Carolyn  Davies. 


Science  and  Food 


Dr.  Carl  L.  Alsberg 

Chief  of  the  Bureau  of  Chembir^,  Department  of  Agriculture 


ONE  of  the  great  needs  of  the  times 
is  more  science  in  the  manufac- 
ture of  foods.  Here  in  the 
United  States  the  business  of  food  man- 
ufacture has  advanced  with  extraordi- 
nary rapidity.  We  no  longer  "live  at 
home,"  as  they  say  in  the  South.  Our 
table  is  dependent  on  the  distant  grower, 
the  distant  manufacturer.  The  food 
problem  is  not  a  problem  of  the  home  or 
even  of  the  locality.  It  is  a  problem, 
nation  wide.  It  has,  therefore,  become 
necessary  for  the  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture to  broaden  its  scope,  to  consider  not 
only  the  production  of  raw  materials,  but 
also  the  production  of  manufactured 
food  products.  It  has  become  the  func- 
tion of  the  Department  to  regulate  and 
aid  in  the  development  of  food  manu- 
facture so  that  the  products  of  our  fac- 
tories shall  be  prepared  under  the  best 
scientific  and  economic  conditions. 
Much  has  been  done  already.  Much  re- 
mains to  be  done.  But  we  hope  the  day 
is  not  far  distant  when  American  manu- 
factured foodstuffs  will  be  recognized  as 
representing  the  highest  standard. 

When  food  was  manufactured  only 
for  the  home  or,  at  most,  for  local  con- 
sumption, the  experience  handed  down 
by  tradition  was  sufficient.  A  mill  to 
grind  grain,  a  smoke  house  to  cure 
meats,  brine  to  pickle  them,  a  cool  cellar 
to  store  vegetables,  tubers,  eggs,  butter, 
and  cheese,  these  were  all  that  were 
deemed  necessary.  What  could  not  be 
preserved  by  these  simple  methods  was 
wasted  and  during  the  long  winter 
months  fresh  food  was  somewhat  of  a 
luxury.  Our  cities  were  small,  and  their 
food  supply  came  mainly  from  the  imme- 
diate neighborhood.  The  monotony  of 
the  diet  often  produced  scurvy  and  re- 
lated diseases,  and  the  failure  of  local 
crops,  coupled  with  limited  transporta- 


tion facilities,  caused  occasional  famines. 
These  were  the  good  old  days. 

The  concentration  of  population  in 
towns  and  the  development  of  transpor- 
tation have  resulted  in  a  complete  trans- 
formation of  the  food  manufacturing  in- 
dustry. Food  must  now  be  brought  from 
great  distances,  and,  in  order  to  do  this 
economically,  it  is  necessary  to  operate 
on  a  great  scale.  Food  can  be  handled 
in  train-load  lots  or  in  ship  cargoes  only 
by  large  business  organization.  The  in- 
dividual farmer  can  not  ship  successfully 
over  great  distances. 

It  is  natural  for  a  business  that  is 
shipping  on  a  large  scale  also  to  develop 
into  a  manufacturing  industry.  Indeed, 
in  some  instances,  such  as  the  beet  sugar 
industry,  manufacturing  may  develop  an 
entirely  new  agricultural  crop. 

The  result  of  the  large  scale  develop- 
ment has  been  to  lessen  waste.  It  is  less 
wasteful  to  slaughter  a  steer  in  a  pack- 
ing house  and  utilize  all  by-products, 
than  to  slaughter  on  the  farm  and  lose 
a  great  part  of  them.  If  the  people  as 
a  whole  do  not  seem  to  profit  thereby  as 
much  as  they  might,  it  is  not  because  or- 
ganization does  not  conserve  wealth,  but 
because  the  wealth  thus  conserved  is  not 
widely  distributed. 

These  changes  in  the  condition  of  the 
food  industry  that  I  have  indicated  make 
it  necessary  for  the  Department  of  Agri- 
culture to  broaden  its  scope.  Its  duties 
no  longer  end  when  it  has  shown  how 
two  blades  of  grass  may  be  made  to  grow 
where  but  one  g^ew  before.  It  must 
recognize  the  fact  that  the  food  industry 
is  no  longer  entirely  a  home  industry.  It 
must  recognize  the  fact  that  the  manu- 
facture of  food  is  being  transferred  from 
the  home  to  the  factory,  as  surely  as  the 
spinning  of  flax  and  the  weaving  of  cloth 
has  been  transferred  from  the  home  to 


137 


138 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


the  factory.  The  city  woman  who  bakes 
her  own  bread  is  exceptional.  Some- 
thing is  gained  and  something  is  lost. 
Though  some  may  think  the  gain  not 
equal  to  the  loss,  the  change  is  upon  us 
and  must  be  met.  It  will  not  do  to  fold 
our  hands  and  lament  the  good  old  days. 
They  are  past,  never  to  return.  We  must 
be  up  and  doing  to  meet  the  new.  The 
Department  of  Agriculture  must  and 
does  recognize  that  most  food  passes 
through  a  factory,  on  its  way  from  the 
farm  to  the  home.  Let  us  be  thankful 
that  it  is  to  the  home  that  it  mainly 
passes  and  not  the  restaurant;  and  that 
home  cooking  is  not  yet  altogether  a  lost 
art.  As,  yet,  the  rich  do  not  live  entirely 
at  restaurants  and  the  poor  entirely  out 
of  cans.  I  suppose  you  gentlemen  are 
directly  interested  in  getting  as  many 
people  as  possible  to  live  out  of  cans. 
With  this  purpose  the  Department  of 
Agriculture  has  no  quarrel.  It  is  simply 
the  duty  of  the  Department  to  see  that 
the  can  is  worthy  of  the  consumer. 

That  Congress  is  fully  awake  to  the 
changes  of  the  times  appears  clearly 
from  the  fact  that  it  has  entrusted  to  the 
Department  of  Agriculture  the  control 
of  the  purity  and  the  labeling  of  food- 
stuflFs.  Upon  the  Bureau  of  Chemistry 
naturally  devolves  the  control  of  food- 
stuffs in  the  factory,  on  their  way  from 
farm  to  home.  The  control  of  manufac- 
turing methods  is  a  very  large  part  of  its 
work.  It  is  that  part  of  its  work  in 
which  you  gentlemen  are  interested. 
Here  is  a  valuable  and  insufficiently  de- 
veloped field  of  work  for  a  government 
department. 

The  whole  transformation  of  the  food 
industry  has  been  so  rapid  that  abuses 
could  not  fail  to  creep  into  it.  The  old 
household  methods  are  often  bad  when 
applied  on  a  large  scale.  New  methods 
had  to  be  devised.  Under  the  pressure 
of  competition,  these  have  not  always 
been  thoroughly  tested.  Thus  trade  prac- 
tices have  become  established  that  are 
very  hard  to  eradicate.  It  must  be  one 
of  the  duties  of  the  Department  of  Ag- 


riculture to  examine  into  all  these  pro- 
cesses, to  improve  the  good  ones,  and 
discover  substitutes  for  the  bad.  It  must 
also  be  its  function  to  develop  methods 
of  utilizing  by-products  and  of  using  as 
food  many  things  which  are  not  now 
utilized. 

I  fear  the  average  layman  does  not 
fully  grasp  the  economic  possibilities  of 
chemistry  in  its  relation  to  agriculture 
and  the  food  supply.  Everyone  is  willing 
to  grant  its  importance  to  metallurgy,  to 
ceramics,  to  the  paint,  varnish  and  dye- 
stuffs  industry.  The  layman  is  apt  to 
dispose  of  chemistry  in  relation  to  foods 
with  some  joke  about  artificial  food  and 
the  millenium  when  man  shall  live  on  a 
few  concentrated  artificial  pills.  While 
there  is  no  prospect  that  we  shall  give  up 
the  joys  of  the  table  for  a  supply  of  cap- 
sules carried  in  our  vest  pockets,  never- 
theless chemistry,  as  in  the  past,  will 
increasingly  in  the  future  influence  di- 
rectly and  indirectly  our  food  supply.  I 
need  only  refer  to  the  production  of 
sugar,  of  starch,  of  fertilizers  and  the 
utilization  of  agricultural  by-products 
and  wastes,  to  indicate  how  dependent 
our  modern  food  production  is  on  the 
application  of  chemistry.  Much  more  is 
to  be  expected  in  the  future  along  these 
lines,  and  the  Department  of  Agriculture 
hopes  to  do  its  share. 

Much,  too,  is  demanded  of  chemistry 
in  finding  new  and  improved  processes 
for  manufacturing  the  raw  product  of 
the  farm  into  products  for  the  table. 
Were  I  to  sketch  but  a  part  of  the  pos- 
sibilities that  here  present  themselves  to 
any  chemist  that  has  given  the  matter 
any  thought,  I  would  soon  weary  you. 
However,  I  think  I  have  said  enough  to 
indicate  to  you  some  of  the  lines  along 
which  the  Bureau  of  Chemistry  is  to  be 
developed.  It  is  hoped  to  make  the  Bu- 
reau of  Chemistry  as  useful  to  the  con- 
sumer, by  advancing  the  manufacture  of 
foods,  as  the  Department  of  Agriculture, 
as  a  whole,  has  been  useful  to  the  farmer. 
This  IS,  to  be  sure,  no  new  thought. 
Much  work  of  this  type  has  always  been 


DE-NATURED  ALCOhOL 


139 


done  in  the  Department  of  Agriculture, 
but  it  is  hoped  to  make  this  work  the 
dominant  note  of  the  Bureau's  policy. 

Some  there  may  be  who  will  say :  Why 
not  let  the  manufacturer  look  out  for 

m 

himself,  why  should  the  people's  good 
money  be  used  to  help  him?  One  answer 
is  that  what  helps  one  class  of  the  com- 
munity helps  all.  But  there  are  other 
and  even  better  reasons.  The  work  I 
have  outlined  is  costly  and  difficult.  Only 
the  larger  and  richer  manufacturing  con- 
cerns can  stand  the  expense  and  take  the 
risk  of  experimenting.  When  they  suc- 
ceed, the  new  process  is  either  kept  se- 
cret or  patented.  The  result  is  to  destroy 
the  small  manufacturer  and  reduce  com- 
petition. When  the  government  carries 
out  these  investigations  the  results  are 
free  for  all  to  use. 

Modern  conditions  are  concentrating 
the  manufacture  of  food  into  fewer  and 
fewer  hands.     Many  causes  have  been 


at  work.  Not  the  least  of  them  has  been 
pure-food  legislation.  This  bears  very 
much  harder  on  the  small  man  than  on 
the  big  corporation,  which  can  better 
afford  to  establish  laboratories  and  em- 
ploy experts.  Those  of  you  who  are  fa- 
miliar with  the  situation  will,  I  feel  con- 
fident, agree  with  me  that  this  is  a  fact. 
For  this  there  can  be  no  complete  rem- 
edy. It  is  the  trend  of  the  times.  No  one 
wants  to  go  back  to  the  old  days  before 
the  enactment  of  these  laws.  There  has 
been  and  will  be  no  laxity,  no  step  back- 
ward in  the  administration  of  the  law, 
but  the  administration  of  the  law  will 
gain  in  effectiveness,  if  it  be  coupled  with 
a  policy  of  education  and  instruction.  It 
will  be  the  ideal  of  the  Department  of 
Agriculture  both  to  prevent  violation  of 
the  law  and  to  help  those  who  wish  to 
obey  it.  I  am  here  today  to  enlist  your 
support. — From  Address  to  Association 
of  Grocers. 


De-Natured  Alcohol 

7%e  Hoasewtfe's  Frknd 

By  Alice  Margaret  Ashton 


HUNDREDS  of  women  in  our 
smaller  towns  and  rural  dis- 
tricts ►»  have  been  privileged 
merely  to  read  and  to  dream  of  the  man- 
ifold appliances  made  possible  through 
the  use  of  electricity  and  gas.  To  the 
aid  of  these  hitherto  restricted  house- 
wives comes  the  new  fuel,  de-natured 
alcohol. 

Both  gasoline  and  kerosene  have,  in 
some  measure,  filled  the  need  of  the 
more  satisfactory  fuels,  but  alcohol  in 
this  application  comes  much  nearer  gas 
than  do  either.  Alcohol  is  clean  and 
pleasant  to  handle,  leaving  neither  smoke 
nor  stain  on  utensils  used  over  its  flame. 
It  burns  without  an  odor,  and  is  excep- 
tionally safe  to  use,  there  being  little  or 
no  possibility  of  danger  from  explosion. 


If  it  is  accidentally  spilled,  it  evaporates 
immediately,  without  leaving  mark  or 
stain  to  tell  the  tale.  And  when  it  can 
be  purchased  in  the  neighborhood  of 
fifty  cents  per  gallon,  it  is  not  an  ex- 
pensive fuel,  if  managed  with  the  same 
care  expended  in  the  use  of  electricity  or 
gas. 

For  all  practical  purposes,  heat  is  not 
obtained  by  a  direct  burning  of  the  alco- 
hol, but  by  means  of  a  burner  that 
converts  the  alcohol  to  a  gas  which  burns 
with  a  blue,  wickless  flame.  The  heat  is 
quick  and  effective. 

The  alcohol  stove  has  passed  through 
the  experimental  stage  and  proven  its 
right  to  exist.  Its  usual  form  resembles 
a  gas  plate  of  one,  two  or  three  burners, 
raised  upon  short  legs,  with  the  storage 


140 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


tank  at  the  back;  the  tank  is  not  large 
as  the  fuel  is  consumed  slowly.  It  is 
quite  attractive  enough  to  be  used  in 
place  of  the  chafing  dish,  as  the  legs  are 
of  nickel,  and  the  tank,  aluminum.  This 
little  stove  weighs  only  a  few  pounds, 
and  is  easily  carried  wherever  desired. 
It  can  be  purchased  for  about  eight  dol- 
lars. 

With  the  alcohol  stove  before  her  on 
the  dining  or  serving  table,  the  hostess 
can  prepare  a  dainty  supper,  or  make 
coffee  and  cook  eggs  for  breakfast,  as 
daintily  and  comfortably  as  with  the 
most  approved  electrical  appliance.  Nor 
is  it  less  practical  in  thje  kitchen.  The 
heat  can  be  regulated,  from  a  flame  in- 
tense enough  for  the  quick  cooking  of  a 
steak,  to  a  "simmering"  heat  for  slow 
cooking. 

A  new  standard  of  housekeeping 
should  accompany  any  of  the  newer 
fuels ;  they  all  prove  expensive  and  even 
unsatisfactory  when  used  after  the  man- 
ner of  the  coal  range.  To  get  the  best 
results  when  using  a  frying-pan  over  the 
alcohol  stove,  it  is  advisable  to  place  a 
piece  of  heavy  tin  under  the  pan  to  dis- 
tribute the  heat,  otherwise  the  heat  is 
too  great  directly  over  the  burner  and 
correspondingly  insufficient  round  the 
edges. 

As  is  the  case  when  using  gas  or  elec- 
tricity, slow  prolonged  cooking  over  the 
alcohol  stove  is  somewhat  expensive. 
There  are,  however,  two  exceedingly 
satisfactory  ways  of  overcoming  this 
difficulty ;  the  fireless  cooker  which  com- 
pletes, without  the  use  of  fuel,  the  cook- 
ing begun  on  the  stove,  is  one  of  them, 
the  steam  cooker  in  which  a  complete 
dinner  may  be  prepared  over  one  burner, 
the  other. 

The  neat  little  stove  will  do  a  surpris- 
ing amount  of  work  when  sensibly  man- 
aged, and  only  the  woman  who  has  been 
obliged  to  work  over  a  hot  range  in  sum- 


mer can  fully  appreciate  the  comfort  of 
a  cool  kitchen. 

Among  the  practical  appliances,  the 
flat-iron  heated  by  means  of  alcohol 
holds  a  high  place.  The  heat  can  be 
regulated  as  desired.  It  bums  for  sev- 
eral hours  without  attention.  Such  an 
iron  saves  many  steps  to  and  from  the 
stove  in  the  process  of  but  one  ironing, 
and  allows  of  the  ironing  being  done 
wherever  fancy  dictates.  The  iron  costs 
in  the  neighborhood  of  five  dollars. 

The  table  coffee  percolator,  while  not 
of  such  extreme  practicality  as  the  first 
named  articles,  is  a  convenience,  espe- 
cially in  the  family  where  coffee  forms 
the  foundation  for  breakfast. 

The  chafing  dish  is  rapidly  filling  a 
long-felt  social  need  with  the  hostess 
who  has  been  obliged  to  depend  alone 
upon  her  kitchen  range  for  cooking.  It 
is  deserving  of  more  common  use,  for 
nothing  can  exceed  its  cosy  comfort  at 
the  family  supper  table.  Many  creamed 
and  escalloped  dishes,  which  for  reasons 
of  haste  or  convenience  are  prepared  in 
the  kitchen,  are  much  improved  when 
served  from  the  chafing  dish;  have  the 
hot  water  pan  liberally  supplied,  and  the 
second  helping  of  the  dish  will  be  as 
palatable  as  the  first. 

Other  conveniences  are  continually 
making  their  appearance.  The  alcohol 
lamp,  requiring  neither  wick  nor  chim- 
ney, and  in  consequence  but  a  minimum 
of  care,  a  small,  portable  heater,  a  self- 
heating  curling  iron,  and  a  heated  man- 
gle for  ironing  flat  pieces,  are  in  quite 
common  use. 

This  means,  although  some  of  the  ap- 
pliances are  still  in  the  experimental 
stage,  a  new  era  in  the  housekeeping  of 
a  multitude  of  homes  situated  outside 
the  big  commercial  centers.  The  new 
fuel  is  being  welcomed  by  many  house- 
wives who  see,  through  it,  th*^^^  dreams 
materializing. 


Harmony  in  Home  Siuroundings 


By  Florence  Lilian  Bush 


IF  more  of  us  understood  the  under- 
lying laws  of  the  science  of  color, 
instead  of  feeling  them  very  dimly, 
our  depressing  Northern  rooms  would  be 
furnished  in  the  warm  tints  of  Autumn. 
The  paper  would  be  of  that  unobtrusive 
yellow,  the  color  of  poplar  trees  just  be- 
fore they  drop  their  leafage,  while  the 
rugs  would  get  their  tones  from  the  rich- 
hued  maples.  Possibly  a  brass  candle- 
stick or  a  copper  bowl  would  give  an 
added  note  of  brightness,  while  a  piece 
of  dull  blue  pottery  would  be  just  the 
right  touch  of  complementary  color 
needed  for  a  pleasing  contrast.  White 
wood  work  would  atone  for  the  depress- 
ing lack  of  sunshine  and  the  furnishings 
give  the  warmth  of  color  desired. 

Just  as  our  Northern  rooms  are  "toned 
up,"  so  our  Southern  rooms  might  be 
"toned  down,"  to  take  off  all  the  glare 
which  is  apt  to  disturb  the  eye.  Cool 
blues  and  restful  greens  are  appropriate, 
while  delicately-tinted  walls  make  an  at- 
tractive background  for  water  color 
sketches  such  as  lilacs,  fleur  de  lis,  and 
hazy,  spring  landscapes.  The  prevailing 
tones  in  the  pictures  should  harmonize 
with  those  in  the  rooms,  but  a  touch  of 
violet  as  a  foil  for  yellow,  red  to  empha- 
size dull  green,  and  orange  against  blue, 
strikes  the  key  note  of  effective  contrast. 
What  the  French  dressmaker  has 
brought  out  by  the  use  of  a  ribbon  or  a 
ros^,  we  may  well  copy  in  our  house- 
furnishing. 

y\  quiet  background  for  a  few  well- 
chpsen  pictures,  which  should  be  hung 
from  the  eye  level  down  instead  of  up, 
as  did  our  ancestors;  landscapes  in 
groups,  portraits  in  groups,  marines  in 
groups  with  careful  attention  to  variety 
in  size  and  shape,  insure  pleasing  results. 
Once  desirable  wall-spacing  is  accom- 
plished, no  one  is  ever  willing  to  go  back 
to  the  hodge-podge  effects  of  the  past, 


when  the  man  of  the  house  was  called 
on  to  drive  a  nail  in  the  most  vulnerable 
portion  of  the  wall — ^generally  high  above 
our  heads — from  which  the  enlarged 
photograph  of  some  ancestor  was  sus- 
pended. For  years  Great  Uncle  William 
gazed  down  at  us  from  a  broad  expanse 
of  white  wall,  and  then  the  wonder 
worker  with  sacrilegious  touch  removed 
him,  brushed  the  cobwebs  from  his  back, 
and  in  his  place  grouped  a  few  clear-cut 
etchings  so  near  we  seemed  to  be  actu- 
ally walking  the  wooded  path,  or  floating 
in  the  little  boat,  or  driving  the  cattle 
homeward  at  sunset. 

Drifting  away  from  the  simplicity  of 
the  substantial  log  house  with  its  wide 
fireplace  and  rag  rugs,  its  wholesome  life 
of  work  and  play,  the  woman  of  mod- 
erate means  has  bought  gaudy  carpets 
and  hangings,  used  cheap  and  ornate 
furniture,  brilliant  wall-paper,  and 
brought  a  dozen  conflicting  shades  into 
close  proximity,  but  to-day  she  knows 
better. 

Her  kitchen,  instead  of  being  a  gloomy, 
inconvenient  room  with  dull  wall-paper, 
an  ugly  or  decrepit  chair,  cupboards 
painted  gray — ^that  there  may  be  no  visi- 
ble evidences  of  dirt — cooking  utensils 
of  all  ages  and  colors  in  evidence,  has 
given  place  to  light  and  cheerfulness. 
Inexpensive  wall-paper  may  be  harmo- 
nious in  coloring  and  can  be  replaced  at 
little  cost.  A  stool  for  sitting  at  the 
ironing  or  moulding-board,  an  easy  chair 
in  which  to  sit  while  paring  vegetables 
or  polishing  the  silver,  cooking  utensils 
of  beautiful  blue  and  white  granite,  or 
aluminum  with  its  cheerful,  silvery 
sheen,  cupboards  painted  white  and  crisp, 
white  curtains  at  the  windows,  all  of 
these  help  to  transform  the  drudgery  of 
home  life  into  tasks  set  to  joyful  melo- 
dies. Even  the  calendar  on  the  wall  adds 
or  detracts   from  the   harmony  of   the 


141 


142 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


room. 

Today  really  artistic  rag  rugs  are  be- 
ing woven  in  obscure  towns,  and  it  only 
remains  for  patrons,  in  sufficient  number, 
to  encourage  these  harmonious  products 
of  the  loom.  Last  summer,  in  a  small, 
Northern  village,  we  noticed  a  well-built, 
modern  home  on  a  conspicuous  rise  of 
ground.  Below,  and  at  one  side,  stood  a 
little,  old  house  seemingly  a  forsaken, 
outworn  nest  which,  evidently,  the  family 
had  not  the  heart  to  destroy.  As  we 
passed  it  one  morning,  a  white-haired 
woman  stood  in  the  door-way  and  we 
turned  up  the  wild-rose  bordered  path. 

Near  the  door  stood  a  loom,  and  pres- 
ently we  were  being  shown  a  variety  of 
rugs  and  porch  pillows  which  would  have 
delighted  any  disciple  of  simplicity.  We 
looked  up  into  the  face  ot  the  plain,  old 
weaver  who  had  fashioned  these  articles 
of  furnishing,  blending  with  rare  skill 
shades  and  tints  until  the  old-fashioned, 
much  despised  rag  rug  of  our  grand- 
mothers was  glorified  into  a  thing  of 
beauty.  We  examined  the  rugs  she  had 
woven  for  a  neighbor's  new  home — white 
with  delicate  blue  borders,  blue  and 
white  fringed;  a  mottled  cream  and 
white  with  a  band  of  pale  green,  and 
white  fringe.  There  were  many  others, 
some  showing  real  Oriental  contrast  of 
color,  while  one  was  of  browns  with  a 
touch  of  orange.  We  had  never  seen 
anything  more  effective.  Visions  of  cool, 
restful  chambers  rose  before  our  eyes, 
where  great  thoughts  might  be  penned 
without  the  distraction  of  a  discordant 
note. 

"Yes,  I  make  my  own  patterns,"  the 
weaver  assured  us,  bringing  us  back  to 
the  present.  "I  live  with  my  son  up 
there,"  indicating  the  modem  house  on 
the  hill.  "But  I  do  my  planning  down 
here  in  my  old  home.  This  is  where  I 
began  housekeeping.  I  wove  carpeting 
enough  to  cover  every  floor.  It  puts  me 
back  fifty  years  to  come  here  and  work. 
I  weave  all  my  memories  of  the  past  in- 


to these  rugs  and  porch  pillows.  I  al- 
ways sit  in  that  chair — it  was  one  of  my 
wedding  presents — "  indicating  an  old, 
spindle-backed  rocker.  "I  seem  to  see 
Morrie  and  Jamie  running  around  in 
short  dresses. 

We  looked  around  at  the  plain,  little 
rooms  and  the  beautiful  old  chair  which 
evoked  such  satisfying  memories.  Thank 
Heaven,  it  is  only  one  of  many  which 
are  being  brought  out  of  cobwebby  attics 
and  storehouses  to  grace  our  living- 
rooms,  pointed  out  by  prideful  hostesses 
as  "the  chair  my  great,  great  grand- 
mother had  when  she  set  up  housekeep- 
ing." No  more  do  we  hide  the  old  loom 
or  the  bit  of  willow  ware,  be  it  ever  so 
cracked.  The  beautiful,  simple  things  of 
the  past  are  emerging  from  their  long 
retirement  to  find  honored  places  in 
houses  full  of  modem  conveniences. 
How  well  they  seem  to  fit  into  their  new 
surroundings!  What  dignity  and  har- 
mony they  lend  to  the  spacious  rooms, 
and  how  they  gradually  banish — just  by 
their  silent  influence — ^those  articles 
which  are  superfluous  and  incongruous. 

We  weed  out  a  multitude  of  insignifi- 
cant trifles,  distracting  to  the  eye,  for 
one  really  valuable  antique,  which  har- 
monizes only  with  things  of  its  own  kind. 
Our  "Grandfather's  clock"  replaces  the 
noisy  onyx  and  gold  affair  or  the  ma- 
chine carved  monstrosity  of  yesterday. 

Our  grandmother's  fine  blue  and  white 
coverlets  make  beautiful  portieres,  and 
the  large  rooms  are  no  longer  full  of 
dreary,  unbroken  spaces,  but  have  cen- 
ters of  interest-^the  broad,  old-fashioned 
fireplace  is  surrounded  by  comfortable 
seats,  the  couch  near  shelves  of  books 
has  a  screen  conveniently  near,  the  writ- 
ing desk  with  its  beautiful  lamp  is  near 
some  cozy  comer.  Out  in  the  hall  or 
reception  room  we  see,  instead  of  the 
portraits  of  our  ancestors,  a  picture 
which  instantly  attracts  our  attention  by 
its  well-arranged  masses  of  light  and 
dark. 


HOTy<[E 
IDE2\S  <&. 
ECON°MI&>3 


Contributtona  to  tbia  department  will  bo  giMiXj  raceived.    Acccpttd  itena  wiU  be 
paid  for  at  ceaaonabla  tataa. 


How  To  Clean  Fish  Dishes 

THE.  brave  little  lady  who  inaugu- 
rated the  egg  crusade  last  winter 
in  Philadelphia,  thereby  bringing  down 
the  cost  of  eggs,  at  once,  and  holding  them 
there  the  entire  winter  by  sales  at  public 
squares  and  in  homes,  is  a  careful  house- 
keeper and  mother;  and  from  her  is  ob- 
tained the  following  useful  hint  about 
overcoming  the  smell  and  taste  of  fish. 

Chatting  about  the  difficulty  of  clean- 
ing utensils  used  for  frying  and  baking 
fish,  and  keeping  silver  absolutely  free 
of  it  with  little  effort,  she  remarked  that 
hot  water  with  plenty  of  mustard  would 
speedily  purify  all  such  pans  and  kettles 
and  silver.  Ground  mustard  is  not  ex- 
pensive and  the  fact  that  mustard  added 
to  boiling  water  will  do  the  work  is 
worth  knowing,  since  many  object  to 
patent  cleansers. 

Mustard  is,  also,  3  good  remedy  for 
worms  in  the  earth  of  house-plants.  To 
burn  off  baking-pan  over  a  hot  fire  is 
one  remedy  for  the  fishy  taste,  after 
washing  it  with  strong  soda  water. 

Good  Luck  Baskets 

"Good  Luck  Baskets"  are  the  newest 
favors  and  table  decoration.  As  it  is 
now  the  time  of  year  when  people  are 
departing  for  summer  trips,  these  are  a 
happy  thought,  but  a  four-leafed  clover 
is  always  welcome.*  And  these  are  what 
fill  the  good-luck  baskets. 

The  baskets  are  of  a  high,  pretty  shape, 
with  high  handle  tied  with  a  scarlet  rib- 
bon, on  which  in  gold  lettering  are  the 


words  "Brings  Good  Luck."  To  a  far- 
mer a  dollar  and  a  half  a  bunch  would 
be  a  good  price  for  clover ! 

A  Cold  Air  Box  for  Fish  or  Meat 

Sometimes  at  the  shore  fresh  fish  are 
brought  home  or  bought  and  there  is 
really  no  place  to  put  them,  indoors,  or 
in  the  refrigerator.  To  keep  such  in  the 
air  and  away  from  flies,  cover  a  peach 
crate,  made  of  slats,  with  remnants  of 
mosquito  netting,  and  under  this  (set  in 
a  good  current  of  air)  place  the  fish  or 
meat.  In  parts  of  the  South  and  the 
plains  of  the  West,  meat  can  be  kept  well, 
because  the  air  is  so  pure  and  free  from 
germs.  The  jerked  meat  of  the  plains, 
in  buffalo  days,  was  simply  dried  meat. 
At  some  old  Alabama  plantations,  there 
are  wire-screened  boxes  built  against  a 
big  old  tree  trunk  by  the  kitchen  door, 
perhaps  a  great  magnolia,  green  the  year 
around.  Under  its  branches  is  shade 
from  the  sun,  and  the  cool  sweet  air 
keeps  meat  well,  and  other  food,  during 
much  of  the  \'e?.r. 

At  the  shore,  such  a  box  can  be  placed 
across  the  kitchen  porch-rail  and  weight- 
ed down  so  it  will  not  blow  off. 

Where  no  ice  can  be  had,  salt  the  fish 
and  pepper  it  well  after  it  is  dressed; 
open  the  fish  flat  and  do  this  thoroughly, 
and  lay  it  on  a  drainer  or  rack,  such  as 
meat  is  cooked  on,  and  place  this  over  a 
platter,  in  the  air. 

Fifteen  Kinds  of  Fancy  Pepper- 
mints in  a  Box 
The  fashion  for  mints  is  not  decreas- 


144 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


ing,  as  is  evidenced  by  the  placing  on 
sale  at  fashionable  shops  a  pretty  white 
box,  divided  into  five  rows  holding  three 
compartments,  each  filled  with  a  different 
kind  of  mint  confection.  The  colors 
range,  from  white  to  green  and  pale  pink, 
except  for  one  dark  variety  the  color  of 
liquorice. 

Each  kind  is  of  a  different  shape,  con- 
sistency or  color,  little  cushions,  egg- 
shaped,  bright,  green  ones,  large  flat  ones, 
partly  white,  shading  to  rose,  transparent 
creme  de  menthe  of  gelatine  foundation 
in  bars,  and  so  on.  This  is  a  very  at- 
tractive novelty  for  any  person  liking 
mints,  especially  an  invalid  or  an  aged 
person.  j.  d.  c. 

*      Hi      ^ 

Por  Luncheon 

AN  appetizing  dish  for  luncheon  may 
be  quickly  prepared  thus : — 

Try  the  fat  slowly  from  four  slices  of 
bacon;  reject  the  bacon;  brown  deli- 
cately in  the  fat  one  small  thinly  sliced 
onion,  then  one  gill  of  cold  boiled  rice; 
now  add  three  well-beaten  eggs  mixed 
with  three  tablespoon fuls  of  cold  water; 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  cook  slowly ;  as 
it  sets,  raise  the  preparation  from  the 
sides  of  the  pan  and  let  the  soft  part  run 
under;  sprinkle  over  it  one  gill  of  fine- 
minced  ham,  tongue,  or  chicken;  fold  it 
over  gently ;  send  to  table  hot,  on  a  warm 
platter,  garnished  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Grated  cheese  is  nice  in  place  of  meat. 

Two  Desserts  from  One 
Pineapple 

Get  a  nice  large  pineapple ;  cut  off  the 
top;  wash  and  wash  it  thoroughly  to 
take  off  every  particle  of  dust;  dry  it; 
pare,  and  remove  eyes;  grate  it  very 
coarse,  add  sugar,  mix  and  put  it  in  a 
glass  bowl ;  set  the  bowl  on  ice  to  chill ; 
serve  ice-cold  with  sponge  cake  or  lady 
fingers. 

Put  parings,  eyes  and  core  in  an  agate 
pan,  cover  with  one  and  a  half  pints  of 
cold  water  and  allow  to  stand  for  two 
hours  or  more;  bring  slowly  to  boiling 


point,  then  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes; 
strain  and  measure  the  liquid;  to  one 
pint  use  the  strained  juice  of  one 
lemon,  a  scant  half  pint  of  granulated 
sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  granulated  gelatine,  dis- 
solved in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold 
water;  the  pineapple  must  be  returned 
to  the  fire  so  it  will  boil  up  once, 
then  add  the  dissolved  gelatine;  do  not 
cook  it  after  the  gelatine  goes  in,  but  stir 
until  it  is  dissolved;  add  the  sugar  and 
lemon  juice,  also;  cool,  then  put  in  the 
refrigerator  until  set;  now  beat  the  mix- 
ture until  light  and  frothy;  serve  very 
cold  with  a  little  of  the  pineapple  on  each 
saucer,  plain  or  whipped  cream,  or  a  thin 
custard.  This  dessert  is  refreshing  after 
a  heavy  dinner,  and  especially  nice  with 
lady  fingers  on  a  warm  day.  l.  n. 

*       *       Hi 

Shifting  the  Silence  Cloth 

THE  felt  silence-cloth  that  is  used 
under  the  linen  table-cloth  should 
be  shifted  occasionally,  an  inch  or  two, 
from  side  to  side  and  from  end  to  end, 
else  it  will  be  found  to  be  getting  a  thin 
place  along  the  line  where  the  arms  of 
those  at  table  rest  on  or  rub  against  the 
table  edge. 

Scrap-Drawer 

I  keep  the  lower,  left-hand  drawer  of 
my  sewing-machine  half-way  open,  when 
the  machine  is  in  use,  and  every  snipping 
from  the  fabric,  every  basting  too  short 
for  further  use,  and  every  particle  of 
thread  or  anything  else  that  would  other- 
wise "clutter"  the  sewing-room  goes  into 
this  drawer  and  later  into  the  fire;  so 
there  is  no  sweeping  up  to  be  done  when 
the  day's  sewing  is  through  with,  because 
there  is  nothing  to  sweep. 

A  Pencil-Holder  for  Everybody 

My  husband  wants  me  to  write  you 
about  his  "patent"  pencil-holder.  It  is 
simply  a  rubber  band  such  as  you  keep 
in  your  desk  or  the  children  get  from 
around      packages      of      chewing-gum. 


HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 


145 


Wrapped  several  times  about  the  elastic 
end  of  the  lead-pencil  and  then  thrust 
into  the  vest  pocket,  with  this  end  down, 
your  pencil  is  there  to  stay  until  you  need 
it.    Try  it  and  see.  f,  p.  p. 

♦  4t      ♦ 

Cooking  Cauliflower 

MANY  object  to  cooking  cabbage  or 
cauliflower  on  account  of  the  un- 
pleasant smell  it  makes  in  the  house. 
This  can  be  avoided  by  dropping  a 
couple  of  English  walnuts  (whole)  in 
the  kettle  while  cooking.  Afterwards 
crack  the  nuts,  and  you  will  find  where 
the  odor  went.  n.  g. 

♦  ♦       4t 

Traveling  Lists 

1TAKE  several  trips  every  year, 
usually  going  for  several  weeks  dur- 
ing the  summer  to  a  camp  many  miles 
from  home  among  the  Canadian  lakes, 
and,  also,  making  visits  to  relatives  in 
other  cities  and,  sometimes,  take  a  sight- 
seeing trip  of  a  week  or  two. 

When  I  go  to  the  summer  camp  I  must 
take  with  me  everything  I  could  possibly 
need  to  use  as  there  is  no  opportunity  to 
buy  anything,  and  an  article  must  be  or- 
dered and  delivered  by  boat  after  an  in- 
terval of  two  or  three  days. 

Some  years  ago  I  made  out  lists  in  a 
memorandum  book,  which  have  been 
proved  to  be  very  convenient.  I  have 
one  for  my  small  handbag,  one  for  my 
suit-case  and  one  for  my  trunk.  Each 
one  contains  the  names  of  the  articles  I 
need  to  have  with  me  in  that  receptacle. 
I  consult  these  lists,  as  I  pack,  and  I 
select  and  take  with  me  the  articles  I 
will  need  on  this  special  trip., 

Clothes,  of  course,  vary  from  year  to 
year  and  one  is  not  apt  to  forget  these, 
but  there  are  dozens  of  small  belongings 
essential  to  comfort,  like  pins,  button- 
hook, tooth-brush,  shoe-laces,  and  hot- 
water  bag,  which  may  be  left  behind  and 
cannot  be  purchased  without  trouble  and 

delay. 
Thanks  to  the  invaluable  little  lists,  I 


never  have  any  worry  about  packing  and, 
for  five  years,  have  never  left  any  needed 
article  at  home. 

Covering  Mattresses  and  Pillows 

1  COVER  mattresses,  bolsters  and  pil- 
lows with  white  muslin  covers,  which 
are  ripped  off  and  washed  twice  a  year. 

After  the  pillows  have  been  thoroughly 
sunned  and  aired,  the  clean  covers  are 
quickly  and  easily  sewed  on  again. 

This  method  keeps  the  .ticking  clean 
and  saves  the  expense  of  renewing  it 
frequently  as  otherwise  would  have  to 
be  done.  The  appearance  of  the  bolster 
and  pillows  is  much  improved  as  the 
muslin  covers  keep  them  in  shape  and 
prevent  the  stripes  of  the  ticking  from 
showing  through  the  cases.       l.  m.  c. 

4t       4t       ♦ 

For  the  Wood  Fire 

WHILE  visiting  a  friend  in  the  coun- 
try we  were  charmed  by  her  habit 
of  bringing  a  little  brown  basket  of  pine 
cones  each  evening,  which  we  burned  on 
the  open  wood  fire.  They  emitted  a  de- 
lightful, woodsy  fragrance.  One  of  the 
things  to  which  she  and  the  children  look 
forward  each  fall  is  the  gathering  of 
these  cones  pn  crisp  Saturday  afternoons. 
An  old  guide  on  a  camping  trip  in  the 
woods  gave  her  the  idea  by  always  add- 
ing a  pile  of  pine  cones  to  the  supply  of 
evening  fuel. 

Kitchen  Work-Basket 

By  a  pleasant  window  in  my  kitcheii 
I  keep  a  low,  comfortable  rocking  chair 
and  a  work-basket.  In  this  basket  goes 
any  sewing  that  requires  no  machine 
work,  such  as  stockings  and  button- 
missing  garments  from  the  wash,  and 
unfinished  garments  needing  buttons  and 
buttonholes  and  the  last  few  stitches. 
While  waiting  a  few  minutes  for  meals 
or  for  some  cooking"  to  finish,  I  can  do 
many  stitches  without  taking  an  extra 
step.  Here,  too,  I  rest  for  a  few  min- 
utes when  I  begin  feeling  tired.  Too 
many  busy  women  think  they  must  never 


146 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


sit  down  until  the  work  is  completed. 
My  kitchen  work-basket  is  one  of  my 
greatest  helps. 

Birds  for  the  Children 

Get  the  children  interested  in  birds  by 
letting  them  put  up  attractions  for  the 
little  people  of  the  feathered  folk.  In 
spring,  put  up  some  drinking  fountain, 
if  it  is  nothing  more  than  shallow  tin 
basins  on  stakes  or  low  branches.  If 
these  are  filled  every  morning,  it  is  a 
charming  sight  to  watch  the  birds  collect 
for  their  morning  toilet.  They  are  apt 
to  nest,  also,  near  such  attractions.  In 
winter,  let  the  little  ones  scatter  the 
crumbs  left  from  table  on  the  window 
sills.  A  piece  of  tallow  nailed  to  a 
branch  will  have  almost  constant  visitors. 

A  little  shut-in  will  find  this  study  very 
absorbing,  and  so  will,  for  that  matter, 
an  older  one.  a.  m.  a. 


PERMIT  me  to  send  a  receipt  for  a 
fruit  salad  with  dressing  made  with- 
out mustard  or  oil.  Answer  to  Query 
No.  1991. 


Salad 


i  doz.  oranges 
2  pineapples 
i  lb.  walnuts 
1  bottle  cherries 


Dressing 

4  eggs  beaten 
4  tablespoons  vine- 
gar or  lemon  juice 
4  tablespoons  sugar 
2  tablespoons  water 

Cook  until  thick,  remove  from  fire,  stir 
in  a  good  piece  of  butter.  When  ready 
to  mix  with  fruit,  add  1  pint  of  whipped 
cream.  e.  r. 


Sour  Cream  Salad  Dressing 

ONE  cup  of  sour  cream,  two  eggs  or 
three  yolks,  one  to  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  vinegar  according  to  acidity 
(plain  or  Tarragon),  one  level  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of 
white  pepper  or  paprika.  If  liked,  mus- 
tard to  taste. 

Beat  eggs,  add  cream,  seasonings  and 
vinegar.     Stir  all  together  well  and  cook 


slowly,  stirring  all  the  time  till  it  thick- 
ens. If  cooked  too  long  or  too  rapidly 
the  dressing  will  curdle. 

This  is  a  good  dressing  for  cabbage, 
making  it  a  little  more  acid. 

Peanut  Butter 

Roast  one  pound  of  raw  peanuts  to  a 
delicate  brown.  Remove  all  skins  and 
grind  in  a  meat  chopper,  using  finest 
knife.  Put  through  six  or  seven  times' 
or  until  oily  enough  to  spread  easily. 
Salt  to  taste  at  third  grinding. 

Pack  closely  in  covered  tumblers. 

H. 

♦     ♦     ♦ 

BISCUITS  made  up  the  night  before, 
set  in  the  ice  box  over  night  and 
baked  for  breakfast,  will  be  lighter  than 
if  made  and  baked  at  once. 

To  remove  typewriting  ink  from  linen, 
place  the  inked  parts  in  turpentine  and 
soak  twenty-four  hours,  then  pour  boil- 
ing soda  on  it,  rinse  and  dry  and  the 
stains  will  be  completely  removed. 

To  keep  the  country  house  comfortable 
during  rainy  periods  in  summer,  it  is  a 
good  plan  to  have  the  furnace  always 
ready  for  starting  during  the  spells  of 
wet  weather  which  usually  occur  during 
the  summer  season.  It  is  only  necessary 
to  have  ready  a  small  wood  fire,  "easily 
built  and  as  easily  put  out.  It  will  help 
wonderfully  to  keep  the  air  dry  and 
sweet. 

Canning  Berries  without  Cooking 

Wash,  drain  and  pack  berries  in  jars. 
Shake  down  so  as  to  get  in  as  many  as 
possible.  Put  jars,  when  filled,  in  hot 
water  to  get  thoroughly  warmed  through. 
Make  a  syrup  by  using  the  same  amount 
of  sugar  you  would  in  canning  berries 
the  ordinary  way.  Pour  over  berries 
boiling  hot,  let  bubbles  escape,  put  on 
lids,  set  in  boiling  hot  water,  cover  up 
and  leave  until  entirely  cool.  These  have 
a  delicious  flavor.  j.  j.  o'( . 


lp|PyERIEi5 


^5WERJ 


THIS  department  is  for  the  benefit  and  free  use  of  our  subscribera.  Questions  relating 
to  recipes,  and  those  pertaining  to  culinary  science  and  domestic  economics  in  general, 
win  be  cheerfully  answered  by  the  editor.  Communications  for  this  department  must  reach  us  before 
the  firet  of  the  month  preoedii^  that  in  which  the  answers  are  expected  to  appear.  Inletters  requesting 
answers  by  mail,  please  enclose  addressed  and  stamped  envelope.  For  menus  remit  $1,001  Address 
queries  to  Janet  M.  Hill,  Editor.  Borroit  Cooniio-SaiooL  Maoashib,  372  Boylston  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 


Query  2038.— "What  is    meant    by    sweet 
herbs?" 

Sweet  Herbs 

Broadly  speaking,  by  sweet  herbs  we 
mean  herbs  used  for  flavoring  and  sea- 
soning, as  parsley,  tarragon,  chervil, 
thyme,  sweet  basil,  bayleaf,  marjoram, 
mint  and  sage. 


Query  2039.— "Recipe  for  Cucumber  Jelly." 

Cucumber  Jelly 

Pare  two  cucumbers  and  cut  in  slices. 
Add  a  slice  of  onion,  a  stalk  of  celery, 
half  a  tablespoonful  of  nasturtium  seeds, 
a  piece  of  green  pepper  pod  and  half  a 
teaspoon ful  of  sweet  herbs,  with  water 
to  cover.  Let  simmer  until  the  cucum- 
ber is  tender,  then  press  through  a  very 
fine  sieve.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Then 
add,  for  each  pint  of  liquid,  one-third  a 
package  of  gelatine,  softened  in  one- 
third  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  dissolved 
over  hot  water.  Tint  delicately  with 
green,  vegetable,  color  paste,  and  turn 
into  molds,  to  harden.  Serve,  with  any 
salad  dressing,  in  the  same  ways  that 
tomato  jelly  is  used. 


Query  2040.— "Where  can  I  get  a  pattern  of 
a  Bungalow  Apron?" 

Pattern  of  Apron 

A  bungalow  apron  is  probably  the 
same  as  a  kimono  apron.  These  can  be 
purchased    at    department    stores    for 


thirty-nine  cents ;  the  apron  can  -be  used 
as  a  pattern,  or  a  pattern  may  be  pro- 
cured of  any  reliable  firm  dealing  in  pat- 
terns. 


Query  2041.— "Publish  recipe  for  Raisin 
Bread  with  spices  and  fruit  How  many 
cakes  of  compressed  yeast  does  it  take  to 
make  four  loaves?  Sponge  put  on  shelf 
above  range  did  not  rise  all  night" 

Regarding  Raisin  Bread 

The  number  of  yeast  cakes  required 
depends  upon  the  time  given  for  rising; 
better  success  will  be  assured  if  the 
bread  be  mixed  in  the  morning. 

Raisin  Bread 


i  a  cup  of  melted 

shortening 
i  a  teaspoonful  of 

salt 

1  egg 

I  a  cup  of  raisins 

About  two  Clips  of 

flour 


4 


1  cake  of  compressed 

yeast 
\  a  cup  of  scalded- 

and-cooled  milk 
1  cup  of  scalded- 

and-cooled  milk 
If  cups  of  bread 

flour 
\  a  cup  of  sugar 

One-half  a  teaspoonful  or  more  of 
cinnamon  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Make  a  sponge  of  the  yeast,  milk  and 
the  one  cup  and  three-quarters  of  flour. 
When  light  and  puffy  add  the  other  in- 
gredients and  mix  to  a  soft  dough; 
knead  until  smooth  and  elastic ;  cover 
and  let  stand  until  doubled  in  bulk. 

Do  not  let  stand  on  the  shelf  of  the 
range.  It  is  too  hot.  When  light  shape 
into  a  loaf,  and  when  again  light  bake 
about  one  hour. 


147 


148 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Query  2042.— "Recipes  for  Chocolate  Pud- 
ding, steamed  in  individual  cups,  with  hot 
chocolate  sauce." 

Chocolate  Custard,  with 
Fudge    Sauce 

For  four  cups  of  custard,  melt  one 
square  and  a  half  of  chocolate;  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  water,  and  stir  until  smooth 
and  boiling.  Beat  three  yolks  of  eggs 
and  one  white;  add  one-third  a  cup  of 
sugar  and  beat  again ;  fold  in  one  white 
of  egg,  beaten  dry,  then  add  the  choco- 
late mixture  and  one  cup  of  milk  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Butter  the  four  cups 
and  dredge  the  butter  with  granulated 
sugar.  Set  on  many  folds  of  cloth,  or 
paper,  in  a  baking  dish;  surround  with 
boiling  water;  let  bake  until  firm  in  the 
center.  The  water  should  not  boil  dur- 
ing the  cooking.  Unmold  at  time,  of 
serving.  The  dish  is  good  when  hot  or 
cold.  At  serving,  pour  over  a  hot  fudge 
sauce.  If  the  custard  be  loosened  at  the 
edge,  it  may  be  unmolded  in  perfect 
shape. 

Chocolate  Fudge  Sauce 

Melt  two  squares  of  chocolate;  add 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  sugar  and  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  stir 
and  cook  until  smooth  and  boiling.  Sift, 
together,  three-fourths  a  cup  of  sugar 
and  one  level  teaspoonf  ul  of  cornstarch ; 
add  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water  to  the 
chocolate;  then  the  sugar  and  corn- 
starch, and  stir  and  boil  five  minutes. 
Add  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  it  is 
ready  to  serve. 


Query  2043.— "When  Creme  de  Menthe  is 
used  for  flavoring  ices,  is  it  used  with  milk 
sherbet  or  ice  cream?  Give  proportions  for 
one  quart." 

Creme  de  Menthe  Cream 

1  quart  of  thin  cream  I  i  a  cup  of  creme  de 
1  cup  of  sugar  I       menthe 

Mix  and  freeze. 

Two   cups   of   thick   cream   and   two 

cups  of  milk  may  replace  the  one  quart 

of  thin  cream. 


Query  2044. — "Recipes  for  Tomato  Sauce 
for  Boston  Baked  Beans;  also  for  Tomato 
Catsup." 

Tomato  Sauce  for  Baked  Beans 

Tomato  sauce  is  not  an  ingredient  of 
Boston  Baked  Beans,  but  it  is  a  good 
addition.  Cooked  tomatoes  pressed 
through  a  sieve  may  be  used.  If  de- 
sired, add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch, smoothed  in  cold  water,  to  a  quart 
of  hot  puree ;  let  boil  and  use. 

Tomato  Catsup 

Scald  half  a  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes 
and  remove  the  skins;  add  half  a  cup 
of  salt,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls,  each,  of  ground  mace  and 
celery  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
ground  cinnamon,  and  two  quarts  of 
vinegar.  Boil  slowly  until  reduced  one 
half,  then  pass  through  a  sieve,  reheat 
and  store  in  sealed  bottles,  or  in  tight- 
closed  cans.  A  larger  quantity  of  spice 
is  desired  by  many. 


Query  2045. — "How  may  a  forequarter  of 
Lamb  be  steamed  with  simple  house  utensils? 
It  is  too  large  for  my  steam  kettles." 

Steaming  a  Forequarter  of  Lamb 

A  forequarter  of  lamb,  folded  to- 
gether, may  be  cooked  in  the  usual  home 
steam  cooker.  If  too  large,  buy  one 
half  of  the  forequarter. 


Query  2046. — "Recipes  for  preparing  can- 
died or  crystallized  cherries  and  pineapple,  in 
slices." 

Crystallized  Fruit 

Stone  cherries.  Remove  hard  center 
and  outside  and  cut  pineapples  in  slices. 
Let  cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender. 
For  a  pound  of  drained  fruit,  cook  one 
pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar  and  a  cup 
of  the  water,  in  which  the  fruit  was 
cooked,  to  the  soft  ball  stage  (ZSS^'F.) 
Remove  from  fire  and  pour  over  the 
fruit,  set  in  a  shallow  dish.  The  syrup 
should  cover  the  fruit.  Return  to  the 
fire  and  let  boil  once.     Set  aside  until 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


150 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


next  day.  Drain  on  a  sieve.  To  the 
syrup  add  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  again 
cook  to  238°F.  Put  in  the  fruit,  let  boil 
once  and  set  aside  overnight.  Repeat 
this  process  three  times,  adding  half  a 
cup  of  sugar  each  time.  The  fruit,  by 
this  time,  will  probably  have  taken  up 
all  the  syrup  it  will  absorb.  Let  dry  off 
a  little  and  store  in  glass,  tight-closed. 
Pineapple  in  slices  may  need  to  be  re- 
heated in  the  syrup  four  or  five  times. 
Each  variety  of  fruit  should  take  up  all 
the  syrup  possible.  Where  fruit  is  can- 
died in  large  quantity,  shallow  trays 
provided  with  wire  screens,  to  keep  the 
fruit  under  the  syrup,  are  used. 


Query     2047. —  '*  Recipe     for     'Kentucky 
MinU.' " 

Candied  Pansies,  Mint  Leaves, 

Etc. 

Set  an  ounce  of  gum  arable  and  half  a 
cup  of  cold  water  over  the  fire  in  a 
double-boiler  and  stir  while  melting. 
When  cold  use  in  brushing  over  the 
leaves,  petals  or  blossoms.  If  flowers 
are  used,  the  stems  must  be  covered  with 
the  solution,  as,  also,  both  sides  of  leaves 
and  petals.  Let  dry  on  table  oilcloth. 
More  gum  arable  may  be  added  if  the 
mixture  be  too  thin  to  dry  well.  Make 
a  syrup  of  half  a  cup  of  water  and  one 
cup  of  sugar.  Let  boil  to  234**  Fahr. 
When  cold  dip  into  it  the  prepared  arti- 
cles and  dredge  with  granulated  sugar  on 
both  sides. 

We  know  of  no  recipe  for  "Kentucky 
Mints."  Probably  the  above  recipe  is 
not  the  one  desired;  it  is  given  as  this 
is  the  season  in  which  to  candy  mint 
leaves.  If  a  more  particular  description 
of  the  recipe  desired  be  sent,  we  may  be 
able  to  publish  the  recipe. 


ing  ingredient,  sift  it  into  the  flour,  then 
sift  with  the  flour.  If  soda  be  used  to 
sweeten  sour  milk,  and  lightness  is  to  be 
secured  in  part  by  baking  powder,  sift 
the  soda  into  the  sour  milk  and  mix 
thoroughly;  add  the  baking  powder  to 
the  flour. 


Query  2049. — "Are  the  proportions  in  the 
following  cake  recipe  correct:"  li  cups  of 
sugar*  i  a  cup  of  butter,  i  a  cup  of  milk,  2 
(small)  cups  of  flour,  2  (small)  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  4  whites  of  eggs? 

Proportions  in  Above  Recipe 

The  ingredients  given  above  make  a 
good  cake.  Cut  out  the  word  "small." 
Measure  the  flour,  a  full  cup,  after  once 
sifting.  Use  level  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder. 


Query    2050.— "Recfpc    for   'Mocha   Frost- 


ing 


f  If 


Mocha  Frosting 

Beat  one  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream; 
gradually  beat  in  two  cups  and  one-half 
of  sifted  confectioner's  sugar  and  then, 
drop  by  drop,  coffee  extract  to  give  the 
color  and  flavor  desired. 


Query  2048. — ^"In  making  cake  with  soda, 
should  the  soda  be  sifted  with  the  flour  or 
stirred  into  the  sour  milk  when  that  is 
used?" 

Soda  and  Cake  Mixture 
When  soda  is  the  only  or  main  lighten- 


QuERY  2061.— "Should  the  oven  for  bread  be 
quite  hot  at  first?  Is  not  half  a  yeast  cake 
sufficient  for  three  medium-sized  loaves  of 
bread?    How  stiff  should  the  sponge  be?" 

Heat  of  Oven  for  Bread 

A  loaf  of  bread  of  average  size  should 
bake  from  fifty  to  sixty  minutes.  In  the 
first  fifteen  minutes,  the  bread  should 
rise  to  its  full  height  and  brown  over  in 
spots.  Guage  the  heat  to  secure  these 
conditions.  Half  a  yeast  cake  is  enough, 
if  the  bread  be  mixed  at  night.  If  the 
bread  be  mixed  in  the  morning,  use  a 
whole  yeast  cake.  Two  yeast  cakes  will 
shorten  the  operation  when  that  is  an 
object.  If  such  bread  be  baked  thor- 
oughly, there  will  be  no  taste  of  ycasL 
Mix  bread  without  waiting  for  a  sponge. 
Reserve  the  sponge  for  mixtures  in 
which  sugar  and  shortening  (which  hin- 
der rising)  are  used. 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


HUB 

RAKG-ES 

Hwe  Heat  on  Five  Sides 

of  the  Oven  , 

and  StmtM  Fttel  i 

Tin  HUB  is  R  Two  Fuel 
Range:  Coal  and  Gaa 
May  be  fumithed  with 

a  varietT  of  SOLD  BY  LEADING  DEALERS 

Gas  AttacnmeDCi 


Equipped  with  the 


SMITH&llNTHONYC0.,B0STON,MltS$. 


Grave*    Safety    Lighter  hUkmn  of  HUB  Ranv**,  Haalinc  StoTM,  FunucM, 

tmht  Wm  lust  TA  PMFkllt  StMm  and  Hot  Water  Hwter* 


Buy  advertised  Goods —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


152 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Recipe  for  Two  Loaves  of  Bread 


h  a    cake    of    com- 
pressed yeast  (at 
night) 

1  a  cup  of  water 

2  cups  of  scalded 
milk 


2  tablespoon fuls  of 

shortening 
2  tablespoonfuls  of 

sugar 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt 
About  7  cups  of  flour 


To  the  milk,  or  milk  and  water,  add 
the  shortening,  sugar  and  salt;  when 
lukewarm  add  the  yeast  mixed  with  the 
half  cup  of  liquid,  and  the  flour.  Use  an 
earthen  bowl  and  mix  with  a  knife. 
Knead  until  elastic.  Let  rise  in  a  tem- 
perature of  about  75°F.  The  shelf  over 
the  stove  is  not  a  suitable  place.  When 
doubled  in  bulk,  shape  into  loaves. 
When  again  light  bake  about  one  hour^ 


Query   2052.— "Kindly   give   directions   igr 
use  of  Pastry  Bag  and  Tube." 

Use  of  Bag  and  Tube 

Fix  the  tube  in  place ;  roll  outward  the 
upper  part  of  the  bag  so  as  to  put  the 
mixture  just  above  the  tube  without 
smearing  the  sides  of  the  bag.  Fill  the 
bag  about  one-third  full.  With  the  right 
hand  carefully  twist  the  bag  above  the 
mixture,  guide  the  tube  with  the  left, 
hand,  and  force  out  the  mixture  by  con- 
tinuing the  twisting,  at  the  same  time 
using  pressure,  with  the  right  hand.  To 
form  a  star,  hold  the  bag  in  vertical 
position  and  press  out  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  the  mixture.  Separate  the  tube 
from  the  material  by  pressing  the  tube 
downward  slightly  and  raising  it  quickly. 
For  other  designs  hold  the  bag  at  other 
angles,  between  the  vertical  and  a  hori- 
zontal position. 


Query  2053.— "Recipe  for  Lady  Fingers." 

Lady  Fingers 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  dry  and 
the  yolks  thick ;  into  the  yolks  beat  half 
a  cup  of  sugar  and  a  grating  of  lemon 
rind;  fold  in  half  of  the  whites,  half  a 
cup  and  one  tablespoonful,  extra,  of 
flour,  then  the  rest  of  the  whites.  Line 
a  pan  with  paper ;  on  the  paper  shape  the 
mixture  in  portions  aii  inch  wide  and 


about    five    inches    long;    dredge    with 
sugar.    Bake  about  ten  minutes. 

Query     2054.— "Recipe      for     Shrewsbury 
Cake." 

Shrewsbury  Cake 


1  cup  of  butter 
^ups  of  sugar 


3  cups  of  flour 
3  teaspoonfuls   of 
baking  powder 


o^eggs 
.'l^«up  of  milk 

Cream  the  butter ;  gradually  beat  in  the 
sugar,  then  add  the  eggs,  unbeaten,  one 
at  a  time,  beating  in  each  egg  five  min- 
utes before  the  next  is  added.  Add  the 
milk,  alternately,  with  the  flour  and  bak- 
ing powder,  sifted  together.  Bake  in  a, 
dripping  pan  about  forty  minutes.  Bet- 
ter results  are  secured  with  this  rather 
rich  cake,  if  it  be  baked  in  three  pans, 
rather  than  in  the  one  large  sheet.-  Finish 
.with  boiled  frosting. 


Query  2055--"How  cook  Fried  Indian  Meal 
Mush  or  Fried  Hominy?" 

Fried  Indian  Meal  Mush,  Etc. 

Prepare  the  mush  in  the  usual  manner, 
letting  it  cook  five  or  more  minutes  di- 
rectly over  the  fire,  and  then  in  boiling: 
water  (double-boiler)  an  hour  or  longer. 
Turn  the  hot  mush  into  empty  baking- 
powder  or  coffee  cans.  Let  stand  over- 
night. Unmold,  and  cut  in  slices  half  an-, 
inch  thick.  Have  some  sifted  flour  on  a. 
plate ;  pat  the  slices  in  the  flour,  first  on 
one  side  and  then  on  the  other.  Let  cook, 
in  a  frying  pan,  in  hot  bacon  or  salt  pork 
fat  till  well-browned  on  one  side  then- 
turn  to  brown  the  other  side. 


Query  2056. — ^"Recipe  for  a  plain  Muffin,  un 
which  the  muffins  rise  and  have  a  peak  in>. 
them.  There  is  more  sugar  in  the  recipe  for* 
Twin  Mountain  Muffins  than  we  care  for." 

Sugar  in  Twin  Mountain  Muffins. 

Make  the  Twin  Mountain  Muffins  with 
half  the  quantity  of  sugar  given  in  the 
recipe  or  even  omit  the  sugar  entirely. 
In  the  last  case  add  the  butter,  melted,  at' 
the  last. 

India  Wheat  Muffins 

Sift  together  one  cup,  each,  of  India 


164 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


wheat  flour  and  ordinary  pastry  flour, 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  two  rounding  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Beat  one 
egg  or  two  yolks;  add  one  cup  of  milk 
and  stir  into  the  dry  ingredients;  stir  in 
also  three  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  but- 
ter. Bake  in  a  hot,  well-buttered  iron 
muffin  pan  about  twenty-five  minutes. 

White  Muffins 

Sift  together  two  cups  of  sifted  pastry 
flour,  two  slightly  rounding  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Beat  one  egg;  add  about  a  cup 
of  milk  and  stir  into  the  dry  ingredients. 
Lastly,  beat  in  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter.  Bake  about  twenty-five 
minutes  in  a  hot,  well-greased  iron  muf- 
fin pan. 


Query  2057. — ^"Recipc  for  Broiled  Live  Lob- 


stcr. 


Broiled  Live  Lobster 


With  a  strong,  pointed  knife  make  a 
deep,  quick  cut  at  the  mouth  of  the  lob- 
ster, then  draw  the  knife,  firmly  but 
quickly,  through  the  body  and  entire 
length  of  the  tail;  with  the  tips  of  the 
fingers  spread  open  the  lobster  to  the 
center,  and  take  out  the  stomach  (or 
lady)  and  the  intestinal  vein,  which  runs 
from  the  stomach  to  the  tip  of  the  tail ; 
wipe  with  a  damp  cloth  and  spread  in  a 
well-oiled  broiler.  Brush  over  with  but- 
ter and  broil  over  coals  about  ten  min- 
utes on  the  flesh  side  and  five  minutes 
on  the  shell  side;  or,  cook  in  the  oven 
about  fifteen  minutes.  Set  the  lobster  on 
a  hot  platter  and  crack  the  shells  of  the 
large  claws.  Serve  melted  butter  in  a 
dish  apart.  If  preferred  the  meat  may 
be  removed  from  the  shell  before  the 
dish  is  sent  to  table.  The  shell,  if  re- 
tained, helps  to  keep  the  lobster  hot  while 
it  is  being  eaten. 

Broiled  Lobster 

The  above  is  the  usual  way  of  cooking 
broiled,  live  lobster,  but,  cooked  accord- 


ing to  the  special  formula,  now  given, 
the  meat  is  more  moist  and  less  hard. 
Cook  the  lobster  in  court  bouillon  about 
fifteen  minutes.  Split  lengthwise, 
sprinkle  generously  with  melted  butter 
and  let  cook  nearly  five  minutes  in  a 
well-oiled  broiler,  over  a  rather  dull  fire. 
Break  open  the  claws  with  a  nut  cracker, 
set  on  a  hot  dish  and  add  a  few  bits  of 
parsley.  Serve  butter,  creamed  and 
mixed  with  a  little  lemon  juice  and  cay- 
enne, in  a  hot  bowl.  The  heat  of  the 
bowl  should  melt  the  butter.  To  make 
court  bouillon  add  vinegar,  onion,  celery 
and  carrot  to  boiling  water. 


Query  2058.— "Lettuce  Salad  with  Thousand 
Island  Salad  Dressing." 

Thousand  Island  Salad  Dressing 


i  a  cup  of  olive  oil 
Juice  of  i  a  lemon 
Juice  of  i  an  orange 
1  teaspoonful  of 

grated  onion 
3  teaspoonfuls  of 

parsley,  chopped 

fine 
8  olives,  sliced 
8  chestnuts,  sliced 


i  a  teaspoonful  of 

salt 
i  a  teaspoonful  of 

paprika 
1  teaspoonful  of 

Worcestershire 

Sauce 
i  a  teaspoonful  of 

mustard 


Put  the  ingredients  for  the  dressing  in- 
to a  fruit  jar,  adjust  one  or  two  rubbers 
and  the  cover  and  shake  until  the  mix- 
ture is  smooth  and  thickened  a  little. 
This  is  sufficient  for  eight  portions. 
Pour  over  lettuce,  washed  and  dried,  or 
serve  the  lettuce  and  dressing,  separately. 
The  chestnuts  are  cooked. 


REFRIGERATORS-ICE  BOXES 

and  all  places  where  meats  and  foods 

are  kept  diould  be  regularly  disiiif eded 

and  purified  by  using 

EkO^  CUssidss* 

IheOdarlessDiBiMM/botanL 

Destroys  germs  and  foul  odors,  does  not 
permeate  the  food. 

Saf9,  Efftdmnt  and  EeonomieaL  Sold  Evmfywkmw 


HENRY   B.   PLATT 
42  Cliff  8tr««t.  Nttw  York  CHy,  N.  Y. 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


New  Books 


20th  Century  Recipe  Cabinet.    By  Har- 
riet A.  Black.     Price  $2.00.     Chi- 
cago: 20th  Century  Cabinet.  Co. 
This  little  cabinet  holds  two  hundred 
and   fifty   choice  tested   recipes.      Each 
recipe  is  printed  on  a  3x5  card  and  the 
collection  is  contained  in  a  unique  Cabi- 
net, which  illustrates  the  UP-TO-DATE 
office  filing  system  placed  in  the  House- 
keeper's Kitchen. 

The  Art  of  Entertaining  For  All  Occa- 
sions.   By  Madame  Merri.    Cloth. 
Price   $1.00   net.     Postpaid   $1.10. 
Chicago :  F.  G.  Brown  &  Company. 
The  social  side  of  life  is  an  important 
one  and  the  observance  of  special  days 
and   customs   lends   fascination   to   any 
party  or  entertainment.    What  to  do  and 
how  to  do  it,  is  the  problem  which  sooner 
or  later  confronts  every  mother,  teacher. 


club-woman,  or  guild-worker,  as  well  as 
the  children  both  in  and  out  of  school. 

Here  are  suj^estions  and  directions 
for  entertainments  for  every  month  in 
the  year,  also  for  engagement  announce- 
ments, birthdays,  parties  for  all  occa- 
sions, etc.  In  fact,  a  large  variety  of 
novel  schemes  and  helpful  hints  are  com- 
bined in  this  volume.  On  few  subjects 
is  information  more  frequently  sought 
than  on  ways  and  means  of  social  enter- 
tainment. To  many  an  inquirer  some  aid 
may  be  found  in  these  pages. 

Ice  Creams,  Water  Ices  and  Frozen  Pud- 
dings. By  Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer.  Cloth. 
Price  75  cents  net.  Philadelphia : 
Arnold  and  Company. 
This  book  is  useful  and  convenient,  for 
it  treats  of  one  subject,  one  department 
of  general  catering.  Here  are  to  be 
found  in  a  single  small  volume  directions 
for  preparing  and  serving  Creams  of  all 
kinds.  Ices,  Puddings  and  Desserts,  to- 
gether with  Refreshments  for  social  af- 
fairs. The  recipes  are  simple,  plain  and 
direct  as  you  would  anticipate.  You  are 
told  just  what  to  do  and  what  not  to  do, 
in  order  to  produce  the  best  results. 
With  this  book  in  hand,  the  housekeeper 
can  decide  just  what  she  wants  for  des- 
sert or  entertainment  and  how  to  prepare 
it  successfully.  Philadelphia  Ice  Creams 
are  noted  the  world  over  for  their  qual- 
ity, their  smoothness  and  richness.  Well, 
here  are  the  famous  Philadelphia  Ice 
Creams  at  your  service,  and,  also,  many 
another. 

The  New  Housekeeping.    By  Christine 
Frederick.    Qoth.    III.    $1.00  net. 
New  York  Doubleday,  Page  &  Co. 
This  is  a  readable  book,  and  it  is  wor- 
thy to  be  read  by  any  one  who  is  inter- 
ested at  all  in  housekeeping.     Efficiency 
in  home  management  is  the  subject.    The 
writer  shows  how  the  principles  of  effi- 
ciency, which  have  already  revolutionized 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Oh!  So  Exqui 


The  piquant  tang ;  the  delic 
flavor ;  the  intense  seasoning  ■ 
er  ;  all  combine  to  make  this  ■ 
derful,  wholesome  liquid  Tol 
pepper  the  favorite  seasonini 
famous  chefs  throughout  the 
lized  world. 

M'^ILHENNY'S 

TABASCO 

SAUCE 

The  discriminating  housewife  al- 
ways keeps  Mcllhenny's  Tobasco 
Sauce  on  the  dining  room  table  as  a 
fit  companion  to  the  best  culinary 
efforts  of  the  discriminating  cook, 
who  uses  it  in  the  kitchen  as  a 
seasoning  instead  of  cayenne  or 
black  pepper. 

Write  to  Mcllhenny  Company, 
Dept.  H-4,  Drexel  Building,  Phil- 
adelphia for  Mrs.  Sarah  Tyson 
Rorer's  new  book  of  recipes,  which 
will  be  sent  free  to  those  interested 
in  good  cookery. 


Look  for  this  while  label 
on  the  little  round  bottle 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


business  can  be  applied  successfully  in 
the  home.  In  every  occupation  and  call- 
ing it  is  now  known  that  no  other  than 
the  best  tools  and  appliances  and  the  best 
methods  can  be  afforded.  Time,  strength 
and  cheerfulness  of  laborers  all  are  to  be 
conserved.  Efficiency  points  to  satisfac- 
tion and  success  in  one's  task,  the  lack 
of  it  to  drudgery  and  failure. 

Read  this  book  and  note  the  efforts  of 
one  woman  in  applying  "Standard  Prac- 
tice" and  "Motion  Study"  to  household 
tasks.  A  single  quotation  may  hint  at 
the  method  as  applied  to  one  item  of 
household  routine.  "Note,  please,  that 
my  drainer  is  at  my  left  and  the  dishes 
are  stacked  to  the  right.  (The  ideal  ar- 
rangement is  a  drainboard  on  each  side 
of  the  sink.)  This  will  make  a  difference 
of  ten  minutes  on  a  task  requiring  forty- 
five  minutes.  Note  also  that  the  dishes, 
and  particularly  silver,  are  sorted  as  laid 
down  on  the  tray.  Note  that  the  drainer 
does  away  with  all  wiping  of  dishes. 
This  cuts  the  time  down  considerably  and 
saves  the  necessity  of  rubbing  each  piece 
with  a  dish- towel  of  doubtful  cleanliness. 
While  the  dishes  arc  drying  the  pots  are 
cleaned  with  a  wire-bristle  brush." 

Even  the  simplest  task  may  be  stand- 
ardized, and  a  better  way  found  which 
will  entail  less  waste  motion,  which 
means  waste  vitality.  Industrial  effi- 
ciency is  no  longer  in  the  theoretical 
stage  only ;  in  shop,  factory  and  counting 
house,  it  is  in  full  practice.  Its  applica- 
tion in  the  home  points  to  a  new  and  im- 
proved housekeeping  and  to  homemaking 
as  a  noble  profession. 


"Nothing  ever  suits  her.  She  ain't 
had  no  more  troubles  to  bear  than  the 
rest  of  us,  but  you  never  see  her  that  she 
didn't  have  a  chapter  to  lay  before  ye. 
I've  got  's  much  feelin'  as  the  next  one; 
but,  when  folks  drives  in  their  spiggits 
and  wants  to  draw  a  bucketful  o'  com- 
passion every  day,  right  straight  'long, 
there  does  comes  times  when  it  seems  as 
if  the  bar'l  was  getting  low," — Sarah 
Orne  Jewett. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  — do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


"The  Perfection  of  Olive  Oil." 

RAE'S 

LUCCA 


OIL 


In  Tuscany,  which  is  justly  called  the  "Garden  of 
Italy,"  the  Very  Finest  Olive  Oil  for  eating  purposes  is 
made,  and  is  generally  known  and  described  in  commerce 
as  Lucca  Oil;  it  cannot  be  equalled  much  less  surpassed, 
by  anything  produced  in  the  rest  of  Italy  or  France." 

S.  Rae  &  Co,  of  Leghorn,  Guarantee  their  Finest 
Sublime  Lucca  Oil  to  be  absolutely  pure  Olive  Oil  of 
Superlative  Quality:  —  the  produce  of  Tuscan  Olive 
Yards  only. 


SOLD  IN  BOTTLES  AND  TINS  OF  VARIOUS 
SIZES  BY  FIRST-CLASS  GROCERS 


An    Illustrated   Pamphlet 
"The  Olive  in  Tuscany" 

will  be  mailed  you  on  request 


^S  3AMES  A.  HAYES  &  CO. 

Ai»at»  and  Importers 

9-11  Commercial  Street.  Boston 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Fashion  Dispenses  with  the  Big 

Pompadour  and  Puffs 
By  Dr.  Leonard  Keene  Hlrshberg 

NOW  that  fashion  has  ruthlessly 
taken  rats  and  all  their  kindred 
from  women  and  decreed  dose 
hairdressing  and  small  heads,  the  prob- 
lem is  a  trying  one.  That  many  women  * 
very  sensibly  solve  it  by  making  no  ef- 
fort to  achieve  the  radical  in  close  hair- 
dressing  is  proved  by  the  well-groomed 
heads  seen  on  the  streets. 

Moderately  rolled  pompadours  and 
coils  and  knots  and  puSs  are  there 
a-plenty,  but  the  fact  remains  that  the 
smartest  hair-dressing  of  the  season  calls 
for  locks  flatly  coiled  over  the  head,  with 
a  low  pompadour  or  fringe  to  soften  the 
forehead,  and  when  this  style  suits  the 
shape  of  the  head  and  the  face  it  is  very 
pretty. 

Unluckily,  instead  of  looking  well- 
groomed,  the  head,  whose  owner  has  at- 
tempted to  dress  her  hair  in  this  fashion, 
is  very  likely  to  look  uncommonly  frouzy 
and  matted.  If  the  thing  cannot  be  done 
well,  it  is  better  for  wc^nen  to  hold  to 
their  pompadours  and  coils,  and  if  the 
latter  are  more  becoming  than  the 
"casque"  and  its  kindred,  hold  to  them 
anyway. 

The  one  law  of  hairdressing  is  that 
first,  last  and  always  the  coiffure  shall 
suit  the  individuality  of  the  woman,  and 
the  woman  who  has  discovered  a  simple 
and  supremely  becoming  fashion  of 
wearing  her  hair  will  do  well  to  stick  to 
it  through  all  the  changing  modes. 

The  modish  hair  to-day  is  most  often 
parted  and  worn  very  low  on  the  fore- 
head, a  thing  made  necessary  by  the  low- 
poised  hats;  and  since  it  is  difficult  to 
make  parted  hair  drop  low  over  the  cen- 
tre of  the  forehead,  the  fringe  has  come 
into  favor.  Not  an  old-time  bang,  mind 
you,  but  a  mere  shadow  of  a  fringe  that 
softens  without  hiding  and  breaks  the 
line  of  the  waving,  parted  locks  without 
really  fllHng  in  the  point. 

Women,  as  a  rule,  do  not  take  proper 


Buy  advertised  Goods  — do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Gooi's  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


The  New 


HESrUVi 


Can  be  "Mule  in  a  Jiffy" 

V^th  the  aid  of  fruit,  berries,  whipped 
cream,  etc.,  the  practical  housewife  can 
serve  Nesnah  in  an  endless  variety  of 
dainty  and  attractive  forms. 


You  simply  dissolve  it  in  milk  or  cream, 
let  stand  a  few  moments,  and  you  have, 
ready  to  serve,  a  most  exquisite  dessert. 
It  is  the  one  iittr,  Mkim  ktd-inwi 
Not  to  be  confounded  with  gelatine  prep- 
arations. 

fflNE  FLAVORS 
VANILLA  riSTACHIO 

CBOCOLATE  BASF  ABUT 

OKADOE  MAPLE 

LBHON  CAIAHEL 

COFFEE  ^^^ 


lOc. 


PaGkagi 


At  An 

Sample  sent  free 
— full-aize  package 
on  receipt  of  10 
Cents.  State  choice 
of  flavor. 

Predated  by 

Tin  Junket  Folks' 


care  of  the  hair.  They  dry  it  out  with 
frequent  and  careless  shampooing  and 
with  hot  irons,  do  not  give  it  proper 
brushing,  airing  and  rest,  do  not  let  it 
have  oil  enough  to  impart  lustre  and 
handle  it  so  carelessly  that  they  break  it 
off  with  every  combing. 

Such  abuse  brings  about  a  condition  of 
hair  that  does  not  lend  itself  readily  to 
the  closely  coiled  coiffure,  which  should 
be  glossy  smooth,  exquisitely  finished, 
though  fluffy  withal.  The  tousle-headed 
girl  and  the  deplorable  condition  of  the 
average  woman's  hair  to-day  are  results 
of  the  cult  of  "fluffiness,"  and  if  smooth 
and  beautiful  and  epidemic  as  the  hobble 
skirt  or  the  Robespierre  collar,  fashion 
makers  would  indeed  have  earned  a  per- 
manent place  in  the  hearts  of  their  fellow 
mortals. 

The  hair  ornaments  worn  with  even- 
ing toilets  tend  to  keep  the  hair  in  place 
and  encourage  the  neat  and  trim  air  of 
the  small  coiffure,  for  most  of  them  are 
on  the  fillet  or  bandeau  order.  Pearls 
and  other  jewels  or  imitation  jewels  are 
used.  Sequin  and  bead  bands,  usually 
less  expensive  than  the  jeweled  ones, 
are  liked  too,  and  any  one  of  these  nar- 
row bands  is  likely  to  hold  an  ornament 
posed  wherever  fancy  dictates. 

Wide  bands  of  jeweled  gold  galon  or 
embroidered  gold  net,  with  or  without 
narrow  binding  of  velvet,  are  drawn 
closely  around  the  head  and  finish  with 
a  Jeweled  clasp  or  ornament,  and  velvet 
bands,  embroidered  in  metal  or  jewels 
or  beads,  are  much  used  too.  In  Paris 
many  of  these  wider  swathing  bands  have 
cabochons  covering  the  ears  and  weird 
effects  are  exploited,  such  as  the  "mad 
tiara,"  which  is  a  band  of  velvet  with 
ear  cabochons  of  velvet  and  gold  and 
with  straight  egrets  standing  stifily  erect 
all  around  the  band,  the  shape  of  the 
head  showing  through  the  fine  feathers. 

A  very  narrow  Empire  wreath  of  tiny 
gold  leaves  and  pearl  berries  is  an  ador- 
able thing  for  a  youthful  head  and  inter- 
linked, small  rings  of  pearls  or  brilliants 
make  a  pretty  narrow  fillet,  as  do 
braided  strands  of  gold  or  silver. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  — do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


No.  393  SALAD  BOWL 


Buy  advertised  Goods —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


ALASKA 
FREEZER 


Like  ma^c  touch  it  tnmi 

Sfttn  uid  inezpeiuiTe  ingre- 
cnti  into  the  taoat  daiatf 
■Mrta.  Yoiu'  tuailj  will  be 
1  healthier  tbli  »ammtt,  bf  ng- 
iag  lata  the  dailf  bill  of  fare 
r  palatable  and  refreihlng  pro- 
SKA  FREBZBR. 
lered  may  longer  with  an  old, 
itlsfactorf  Bpparatua.  Buy  the 
ear — it  ii  •omethlng  more  than 
jitat  aa  Iti  prodncta  are  vastly 
try  ice  cream. 

WM   the  American   NatJOD'*  mott 

isK\   FREEZER 


NORTH  POLE 


»l— willlMl  for  yetn. 


I  ICE  CREAN  LOVERS."  You 
th  KiiilinK  ror.  Sometliipt  y, 
prcHrre.    Wdt«  raritatODC 


1^ 


How  to  Escape  from  a  Small  Job 

Every  little  while  there  comes  to  me  a 
letter  from  some  youngster  who  tells  me 
that  he  hears  Opportunity  calling  him  to 
go  to  New  York,  or  some  other  big  city. 
He  has  figured  that  his  home  town  offers 
him  no  chances. 

Perhaps  it  doesn't. 

Few  towns  ever  offer  anything  to  any- 
one. That  much  I've  discovered  in  what 
little  wandering  I've  done. 

It  doesn't  take  one  very  long  to  dis- 
cover that  the  wise  young  man  is  spend- 
ing mighty  little  time  looking  for  chances 
to  get,  but  is,  as  a  Westerner  would 
say,  "some  industrious"  in  looking  for 
chances  to  give.  And,  as  those  who  have 
tried  it  know.  New  York  and  every  other 
big  city  is  calling  for  givers. 

In  the  city,  where  every  faculty  must 
ever  be  on  the  alert,  only  the  great  giver 
is  the  great  getter.  Many  of  my  friends 
have  tried  the  pace  in  the  Big  Town, 
and,  after  playing  the  game  for  a  few 
months,  gone  back.  Some  less  wise  arc 
still  stru^ling  on.  A  few  have  suc- 
ceeded and  are  steadily  climbing  ahead. 

It  is  another  case  of  "many  are  called 
but  few  are  chosen." 

Only  the  fit  survive.    The  unfit  perish. 

The  wise  young  man  is  he  who  gives 
until  the  institution  or  individual  employ- 
ing him  can  receive  no  more. 

The  way  to  move  out  of  a  small  job 
into  a  bi^er  one  is  to  grow  out  of  it. 
Likewise,  one  must  grow  out  of  the  small 
town. 

Until  one  can  swim  across  the  creek, 
one  had  better  refrain  from  attempting 
to  swim  the  river. 

The  advice  of  the  cowboy,  "Shoot 
from  where  your  gun  is,"  is  good  advice. 

Serve  where  you  are. 

It  is  better  to  polish  an  office  stool  in 
Aurora,  Illinois,  than  to  polish  a  bench  in 
Central  Park. — Character. 


Some  quiet  scientist,  working  in  a  lab- 
oratory, will  accomplish  more  for  the 
cause  of  vegetarianism  than  the  whole 
tribe  of  shrieking  reformers.     Already 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Something  Especially  Good 
has  been  produced  in 

KNOX 

Mapleine 

T*Jr«  Flmwoe  Dm  Lbx» 

It  is  a  pure,  vegetable 
product  that  makes  a 
perfect     table    syrup 
by  adding  it  to  white 
sugar     dissolved     in 

GELATINE 

MakeB   Dainty    SwteU 

and  Salad,   for 

Lanck    and   Dinner 

water. 

It  combines  readily 
with  the  most  delicate 
ingredients  and  gives 
a    daiaty,     delicious 
flavor  for  cakes,  pas- 
tries,    candies     and 
desserts. 

Try  P«rf>it  >  l>  Carlo. 

OeliUne                             1  pint  cr»m 

Soak  me  celaline  In  Oie  cold  w»t«.    Make  n  syriip  of 
the  cofTee  and  auaar :   In  thia  cook  Ihe  beatan  rolks  of 
egiauoKI  tbe  mtxture  thickens :  add  tlie  Kc'atine;  alir 
until  cold.    When  cokl   add   cream   which    haa  been 
whipped.     Freeie  and  aerve  in  parfalt  ilasMS.  PUlliPi 
oier  the  top  the  beaten  whita  of  emaor  a  lilUe  whipped 
cream,  and  decorate  wilb  candled  ctierriea. 

Croon  SmB  It 

THE  KNOX   RECIPE  BOOK 

2  •■.  bottle  35c  (Im  CiDMb  5«c).    11  not,  wtU« 

Contalna  choice  recipes  tor  Deaserla.  Salada.  Candiea. 
Jelllefc  Puddinn,  Ice  Cream,  Sherbela.  elc.    Sent  FREE 

Dapt.  R                                                 S«H1«.  W»b. 

»•  IB  M>m|.  .Ul  brliv  "<"  B«kWt.  -H.plriix  DiOBIl..  ■ 

CHARLES  B.  KNOX  CO.,  7  Kmx  An.,  JohutoiB,  N.Y. 

Buy  advertised  (joods- 

-  do  not  accept  stibstitutes 

THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


£>e]c^ 


Reaa 

bout 


Try  it  Ten  Days  Free 


If  not  perf«ctly  MUiaed  Mod 
ItUck. 

The  Dales  ia  the  onlj  elet±ric  Iron  which  girei 
yon  kbcolute  control  of  th«  heat.  Prercntt 
•ooidiing  and  reduces  the  unonnt  of  cmreat  lued 
to  m  mlDlmutD.  Punished  with  itaud,  cord  and 
jAwrtmAf  for  me. 

Write  for  your  Iron  today.  If  yon  like  It 
■end  oa  IS.SI,  If  not  return  at  oar  eipeiue. 

*-       DIAMOND  ELECTRIC  CO. 

BINGHAHTON.  N.  Y. 


Better  bread  and  nKMre  of  it — that 
u  a  good  modem  ideaL 

Fleischmann's  Yeast 

helps  it  to  come  true.  It  makei  it 
eaay  to  make  good  bread.  Our  new 
Recipe  Book  tells  how. 


The  Fleischmann  Company 

7N  WaaUafton  Street  Kew  Twk  City 


Send  for  this 

ZOth  Gentary 
Recipe  Gabinet 


we  find  Effront,  the  Bel^an  chemist, 
obtaining  human  nutriment  by  the  treat- 
ment of  clover  and  hay,  extracting  their 
food  elements  without  the  intermediary 
of  the  animal  that  transforms  them  into 
meat.  It  is  said  that  the  solid  paste  ob- 
tained by  this  process  is  three  times  as 
nourishing  as  meat.  "Why  charge  the 
ox  or  the  sheep,"  he  asks,  "with  the  task 
of  transforming  these  elements  into  a 
complex  albumen  which  is  not  utilized  by 
man  until  it  has  been  degraded  into  sim- 
ple compounds  by  means  of  digestion?" 
It  is  the  quiet  political  chemist,  the  true 
student  of  scientific  government,  who 
will  do  more  for  the  world  than  the 
leather- lunged  demagogue  or  the  soap- 
box fire  eater. 


To  Make  Southern  Corn  Bread 
The  proper  way  to  make  real  Southern 
com  bread:  Get  good,  bolted  com  meal, 
preferably  water  ground.  Put  in  a  deep 
pan  or  bowl.  Boil  the  water  to  be  used 
in  mixit^  the  com-meal  batter.  First 
scald  the  meal  with  boiling  water.  Then 
mix  the  dough  as  follows :  Take  enough 
of  the  scalded  meal  for  about  six  people, 
pour  in  the  boiling  hot  water  until  the 
consistency  of  a  thick  batter  is  obtained, 
working  the  substance  thoroughly  and 
fast  all  the  while;  also  add  two  eggs 
while  the  batter  is  being  beaten.  Add 
salt  to  taste  and  pour  into  bake  pans  and 
bake  it  slowly  in  the  oven.  Do  not  use 
any  sugar,  butter  or  other  grease  for 
shortening;  only  grease  the  bottom  of 
the  bakepan  or  other  receptacle  into 
which  the  batter  or  dough  is  poured  for 
baking.  The  secret  is  in  properly  scald- 
ing the  meal  before  mixing  and  in  the 
slow  cooking.  That  is  the  old-fashioned 
Southern  corn  bread. 


Strawberries  with  Lettuce 
A  writer  in  the  Hotel  Gazette  says  that 
strawberries   and   lettuce  make   a  good 
breakfast  salad. 

It  is  better  not  to  wash  the  berries,  as 
water  increases  their  acidity  to  a  dis- 
tasteful degree.    Place  the  berries  on  the 


Buy  advertised  Go*ds  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


BANAN 
NUTRO 


FHtl 


•  who  ^  wlU  mit 


[  Mak  C«lfm 


MADE  FROM  MUSA  BANANAS  GROWN  BY 

THE  UNITED  FRUIT  COMPANY 

It  coalmlni  S3%  CulMilvilmM  tUt 
prodnc*  aMTir 

It  is  justly  called  the  King  of  Substitutes 
and  IS  particularly  beneficial  to  children 
as  well  as  grown-ups.  It  is  inexpensive 
and  qmckly  made. 

Snl  35  UBt*  Im- ■  H*Bd  Ua  tkal  CMlalBi  79  ctif  ■ 
Wa  par  upmuga 

PANAMA  BANANA  FOOD  CO. 

192  FRONT  ST,  NEW  YORK 


Fw  Sumina  Appetite*. 


II  [or  (oniclhiiui  coot  and  latiifr- 


dELL-O 


THE    ROBERTS 
LIGHTNING     MIXER 


AFm»of  " 
ManyTM 


paid  parcel  post  . 
information  ;  but  send  us  ui 
choice  territory  ia  going  fast. 


sells  easily  because 
every  housekeeper 
who  sees  it  in  oper- 
ation immediatdv 
wants  one.  Check 
ovet  the  things  it 
candb^,  Jrou'llwant 
one  yourself.  This 
will  convince  you 
how  easy  it  is  to 
sell. 

Agents  who  apply 
ear^  will  secure 
the  best  territory. 
Send  50c  for  Pint  size 
or  7Sc  for  Quart  «ie 
■ample  Mixer  by  pre- 
aend  postal  card  for  further 
'         ~        the  other,  because 


EK>RSEY   MFG.    COMPANY 

1   BroMl   St..  Bo«toB.  Mm*. 


Bu;  adrenised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Buy  advertised  Goods — do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


THE    ONLY    GENUINE 

FRENCH  SARDINES 

In  the  New  SANITARY  TINS 

Are  packed  by 
EtablkianeDb  Lorieotau-LonenI,  France 
PERFECT  FISH  IN  PURE  OUVE  OIL 
If  your  grocer  doe*  oot  ke^  them  fJeaie 

refa  hiiii  to 
Meyer  &  Lan|{e*  New  York 

Sole  At«aU  tor  the  JJalied  Stttom 


feet  Cooking 

h  Letil  Trasble  ta4  Ezptut 

The  OuiDben  Flrdea  Cookini 
Ou  Ranee  is  an  tmprorcd  (u 
'  nnrt  combined  witb  illrelaa 
cooker  and  d(Ka  the  WTk  of 
both— brttrr  tb>D  dUier.  Re- 
tahucoAdneaiBndaaTor.Pan 
h«-lla«ir  Id  bttttr  rood  and 


XT.UktSuCblcM* 


Domestic  Science 

Home- Study  Courses 

Food,  health,  hogaekecping,  c-lothiiw,  dilldrea 
For  bomeraaken,  tuchen  and  for 
well-paid  poaitiooi. 
"THE  PROFESSION  OF  HGHE-HAKING."  100 
page  handbook.  FREE.  Bnlletliii:  "Fan  Hum 
CoaKiMO,"  10  cents.  "Food  Vtivwa,"  10  centi. 
"  Tarn  Up-to-date  Hokk,"  IS  cent*. 

AH.  SCHOOL  OF  HOME  ECOIOIICS,  503  W.  BHk  li..CHICUa 


A  REMARKABLE  OFFER 

For  a  limited  time  we  will  Bend  to  yoor  home 

FREE -ON  THIRTY  DAYS'  APPROVAL 

THE  "BENDEISOII  CEITIHED"  AUTOHATIC  CHAIIfSTITCH 
If  yon  derire,  yoa  may  purcbaae  foi 

$29.50  — USUAL   PRICE.    $43.00 

(for  Mme  thinf  wltb  Uttle  differeiit  a^Ie  ceMnet) 
Our  Ba*r  Rcotal  Purchaie  Flan  wran  m>k«*  the  macliine  yoon. 
PAYUENTS  AS  UTTLE  AS  $1.00  A  WEEE 
If,  raranrnuon.jroadDDOt  wMi  to  kc«p  the  machine, 
Tou  mil'  return  it  without  anr  obllcatlon  on  rour  part. 
QuMHlaad  for  ■  lltetiHa  (raa  f»B  iHpaalaottoaa 
Free  dobverr  to  your  borne  wlih  C>rtlll*4  SmvIcb. 
Tb*  beat  automatic  cbainitltcb  macbiua  in  th*  world. 

Ofdtr  Oam  Toamy—Dpm'l  Wall 

F.  C  HENDERSON  COMPANY 

n*  WaihlmiM  St..  Crothy  SUC,  BOSTCH.  HAS9. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  — do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Buy  advertised  Goods—  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


PREMIUMS 

Experience  has  shown  that  the  most  satisfactory  way  to 
enlarge  the  subscription  list  of  The  Boston  Cooking  School 
Magazine  is  through  its  present  subscribers,  who,  personally, 
can  vouch  for  the  value  of  the  publication.  To  make  it  an 
object  for  subscribers  to  secure  new  subscribers,  we  offer  the 
following  premiums: 

Premiums  are  not  ({iven  with  a  sabscrlptlon 
or  for  a  renewal,  but  only  to  present  sub- 
scribers, for  securinif  and  sendinif  to  us  new 

f^f^KVWnC^KSL       yearly  subscriptions  at  $1  each. 

f^Vfl-^UltlVfll3  .    rj^^  number  of  new  subscriptions  required  to 
secure  each  premium  Is  clearly  stated  below 
the  description  of  the  premlom. 
Transportation  i«  or  iM  not  paid  as  stated. 

I  alandaril  jooda.  Jvst  anoh  as  ar«  sold  at  th*  battar   atoraa,   are 
'orth  tka  prlca.  and  hava  ^Ivaa  nnlvarsal  aBUalaction. 


The  preinjunis  which  jon  leat  me  arrived  all 
right  and  I  am  more  tbaa  pleaaed  with  them. 
Tbej  aie  more  than  worth  the  effort  of  getting 
the  four  new  inbacriben.    All  I  had  to  do  w 


Very  rincerelf , 


Itadf. 


■how  them  a  oopj  of  your  paper  and  it  ipoke  for  Ced«r  Falli,  low*. 

1  received  the  chafing  diah  and  I  am  de- 
I  remain,  yonn  reipectfnUy,  lighted  wiUi  It.     ThaakiDg  you  rooit  kindly, 
I  am  youn  sincerely, 

FaU  River,  Han. 


New  Haven,  Ct. 


Every  Oaa  Who  Baa  lacalvad  One  of  Thaa* 

CHAFING  DISHES 

Baa  Beaa  DaUdhted  With  It 

aod  lurprised  how  eatily  the  oeceMary  fniMcriptloa* 
were  aecnred.  Have  yoa  obtained  one  yet  ?  If 
not,  start  today  to  get  the  subscriptions,  and  within 
three  or  fonr  dayi  you  will  be  enjoying  the  diab. 

This  Chafer  is  a  full-sise,  three-pint,  copper  dish, 
nickel  plated,  with  all  the  latest  Improvemeuta,  in- 
cluding handles  on  the  hot  water  pan.  Caa  be  farn- 
labcd  copper  Baiab  If  dealred. 

Sent  for  seven  (7)  new  subscriptions,  eipret* 
charges  to  be  paid  by  receiver.    (Price  SS.OO.) 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE.  BOSTON,  MASS. 

Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


PREMIUMS 


SWEDISH  ROSETTE  IRONS 


ThcM 
With  than  yon  < 
putr;  coofectioai,  lo  be  served  spilokled  with 
powdered  augar  oi  rpremd  with  jam  or  preaerm 
and  o  mam  en  ted  with  whipped  cream. 

Bach  let  comei  lecurely  packed  in  an  attract- 
iTe  box,  with  redpea  and  rail  dlrecUoni  for  use. 

Sent,  pnatpaid,  for  one  (I)  new  subscription. 
(Price  eOc  J 


■ROBERTS   LIGHTNING 
MIXER" 

Teoi  of  thousands  of  delighted 
bouekeepers  dallj  lue  thli 
tnlxer  and  reconimend  it  as  be- 
ing Ibe  most  effective  beater, 
mixer  and  chumer  thej  ever 
(Bw.  Beats  whites  of  eggs  in 
half  a  minute,  vUrs  cream  and 
chDms  butter  In  from  one  to 
three  ininutrs.  In  making 
floats,  salad  dressings,  custards, 
gravleii,  charlotte  rusie.  t^nog, 
etc.,  it  must  be  used  in  order  to 
•chicTe  Ibe  best  reanlts.  No 
spatter.     Smvrt  time  and  labor. 

Sent  postpaid,  for  one  (1)  new 
subacriptioQ.     (Price  SOc.) 


^GOLDEN  BOD 

CAEE  PAN 

For  "WaHorfTriangles,"  "Golden  Rod  Cake," 
"Orange  Slice  Cake"  and  maur  other  fancy 
cakrg.  Subatantialir  made  of  the  Dest  tin.  Sent 
postpaid  for  one  (1)  new  mbscription.     (Price 

4Sc.) 


THE   HILL 

has  an  easy  grip  for  each  band- 
Turns  smoothly  and  steadily. 
No  jerky  motion  or  slipping  of 
gears.  The  beaters  rerolre  nr- 
eide'  the  frame.  Can  be  used 
Inside  a  cup.  Will  beat  tfae 
white  of  one  qg  or  a  qoantity 
of  egg*.  Will  whip  a  amall 
qnantltf  or  ■  large  quaoUtr  of 
cream,  more  easily,  much  light- 
er, and  deddedly  qnlcker  thin 
anj  other  Egg  Beater. 

Sent,   postpaid,    for   one    (I) 
new  subscription.   (Price,  49c-) 


A  SPATULA 


There  are  few  utensil*  more  nsefid  than  a 
Spatula.  All  professional  cooks  use.  them,  and 
where  once  used  they  t>ecome  a  necessity.  We 
will  send  an  eight-inch  one  of  the  best  make, 
postpaid,  for  one  (I)  new  sabscription.  (Price 
50c-) 


as  illnatrated,  are  used  to  make  dainty,  flaky 
pates  or  tlmbeles]  delicate  pastry  cups  for  ser- 
ving hot  or  frasen  dainties,  creamed  vegetables, 
salads,  shell  fish,  ices,  etc.,  etc 


ecarely   packed  in  an  attract- 
B  and  full  dlreeUoDS  for  use. 


Ive  box  wilh  redpeB 

Sent,  postpaid,  for  one  (I)  new   subscripUoD. 
(Price  60  centa.} 


Climax  Serrated  Edtte  Knife  Set  —  3  Knives,  Bread.  Cake,  Paring 


These  knives  are  first  clan  in 


every  rt 

>ne  (1)  D 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE.  BOSTON,  MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods— do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


PREMIUMS 


Lou.  alow  (OokJDg,  kt  a.  gentle 
he&t,  beat  coDieirea  tlie  nutritiTe 
elemeDti  of  food  uid  the  fiaron 
that  render  it  mortaKTeeable.  The 
Ear(h>a  Caaaarol*  mkkei  this 
method  poHilble.     Then,  too,  the 


keeper  who  Is  deeiroua  of  settlog 
«  pIcMing  table  without  an  undue 
expendltuTe  ot  time  oi  moiiejf 
win  find  a  Canerole  almost  indli- 
pentable.  Tha  CaaaBrola  wa 
offer  ii  made  bf  one  of  the  lead- 


their  regular  trade.  The  dtfl 
1b  a  thTee-pint  one,  loand,  eight 
Inchet  in  diameter,  fitted  with  tvo 
coven,  (an  earthenware  cover  for 
the  oven  and  a  nickel  platedone  for 
Ihe  table)  and  a  nickel  plated  frame.    Sent,  express  tnllect,  for  Mven  (7)  new  BubKriptions.   Prlce$a. 


Almost  ereryone  nowadays  uses  a  CoffB« 
Percolator.  If  you  do  not  here  is  a  chance  to 
get  a  good  one. 

Three-pint  Aluminum  Percolator  of  the  very 
best  maice  sent,  express  collect,  for  six  (6)  sub- 
■cripUoni.     {Price  $4.50.) 


TBE  EMPIRE  GRAPE  FRUIT  AND 
ORANGE  KNIFE 


Is  made  from  the  finest  cutlery  steel,  finely  tem- 
pered, curved  just  to  tbe  right  angle  and  ground 
to  a  very  keen  edge,  will  remove  the  center,  cut 
cleanly  and  quickly  around  the  edge  and  divide 
tbe  fruit  into  legiiients  ready  for  eating.  The 
feature  of  the  blade  is  tbe  round  end  whiih  pre- 
vents cutting  through  the  outer  skin.  A  grape 
fruit  knife  is  a  necessity  as  grape  fruit  are  grow- 
infc  so  rapidly  in  popularity  as  a  breakfast  fruit. 
Sent,  postpaid,  for  one  (1)  new  subscription. 
(Price  50c.) 


SiKtcan  Inch  Flank  and  Nicknl  PlatMl  Holder 

For  meat  or  fish,  but  not  for  both  with  the  same 

plank.     The  food  Is  cooked  on  the  plank,  and  the 

plank  placed  In  the  bolder  just  before  serving. 
This  is   one  of  the  handsomest  and  most  UMfol 

table  pieces  ever  devised.     Would  make  a  suitable 

wedding  or  Christmas  present,  and 

there  is  no  woman  In  the  land  who 

would  not  be  proud  to  posscM  one- 
Sent,   express   coll  ret,   for   eight 

(8)  subscHptlons.     (Price  $5.30.) 

An  additional  plant  will  be  sent 
as  premlaa  for  tyro  (2)  additional 
BBbucrlBtloaa.  Then  you  bare  one 
Blant  for  meat  and  one  for  £sh, 
(Prices  I. OO.) 


The  only  reliable  and  sure 
way  to  make  Candy.  Boiled 
Froatlntf,  etc.,  etc..  la  lo  nae 

a  Thermometer 

Here  is  just  the  one  you  need. 
Made  specially  for  the  purpose  by 
one  of  tbe  largest  and  best  mann- 
facturers  in  the  country. 

Sent  postpaid  for  ^o   (2)  now 
subscriptions.     (Price  $I.2S.) 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE.  BOSTON.  MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


PREMIUMS 


AHE81CAN  KITCHEN  FRIEND  SET 


"roade  oa  honor"  of  high 

^ _.      .  ,  h  sharp  and  will  keep   its 

edge.  This  let  ihoiild  be  in  every  kitiben.  Sent, 
expresa  collect,  for  three  (3)  new  lubcrlptioiu. 
Price  S2.00. 


Majlc  Cover  for  Pnatry  Boards  *nd  Rolling  Pin; 
chemicallj  treated  and  hjgicnic;  recommendEd  by 
leadiag  teadicn  of  cooking.  If  you  once  use  this  you 
will  never  be  without  a  set  again.  Savei  flour,  time, 
and  patience.  Sent,  postpaid,  for  one  (1)  new  Bub- 
BcripUon.     (Price  60c.) 


INDIVIDUAL  ALUMINUM  TIN- 
BALE  MOULDS 

Fancy  (haped. 
Can  ba  ued  for 
coudUcm  thiDgs : 

Tlmbalei  of 
chicken,  ham, 
peai,  com,  etc. 
Mouldiug  indiri- 
dual  fruit  jelliei. 
Moulding  Rieati 
and  aaladj  In  aa- 
pic  jally.  For 
eggt  Parlilenne, 
fruit  ipongca,  etc 

A  set  of  8  of  theae  mouldi  lentH 
postpaid  for  two  (2)  new  sab- T 
acriptioDB  (make  yonr  own  selec-  T 
tion,  otderiog  by  letter).  Price  1 
«I.ZS. 


Patent  ladividnal  Charlotte  RoMe 

Moald8.~Can 

beuaednot  only  ^ 

In  making  cliar-  1 

lotte   nuBO,    but 

for  many   other 

dishea.   Von  can 

use  them  for  tim- 

bales.     You  can 

mould  jellies   in 

them.     Yon  can 

bake  cakes    in  them.     Wherever  indiTidnal 

moulds  are  called  for,  yon  can  use  these. 

The  moulds  we  offer  are  made  by  a  patent 
process.  They  have  no  seams,  no  joints,  no 
solder.  Tliey  are  as  near  perfection  at  can 
be  had. 

A  set  of  six  (6)  Patent  Charlotte  Russe 
Moulds  will  be  sent  postpaid  for  two  (2) 
new  subscriptions.     Price,  $1.50. 


INDIVIDUAL  INITIAL  JELLY  MOULDS 

Serves  Eggs,  Fish  and  Meats  in  Aspic,  Coffee  and  Fmit  Jelly, 
Pudding  and  other  desserts  with  your  initial 
letter  raised  on  the  top.     Latest  and  daint- 
iest novelty  for  the  upto-dste  hostess. 

To  remove  jelly  talce  a  needle  and  run  it 
around  inside  of  mould,  then  immerse  in 
warm  water;  jelly  will  then  come  out  in 
perfect  condition. 

Be  the  first  in  yonr  town  to  have  these. 
You  cannot  purctuse  them  at  the  stores. 

Set  of  ex  (6\  any  initial,  sent,  postpaid,  for  one  (I)  new  aubeciiptian.     Price  5flc. 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE.  BOSTON.  MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


PREMIUMS 


Solves  tha 

Serving 

Problem 

A  medwDical  derice  for  holding  bU  Uw  ordinaiy 
■rticlea  that  mn  pmssed dnring'  tfaeoooneof  •meal. 
Not  attached,  aimply  placed  upon  the  table  and  la 
held  firm  and  aecuie  becaiue  of  the  heary  metal  bwe. 
Top  of  heaTf  plate  glan.  An  onament  to  any  table. 
Sent,  expreu  collect,  for  twelve  (12)  new  ■nbacriir 
tioDs.    (Price  SIO  prepaid  ) 


MAYONNAISE  HIXER 

NICKEL  PLATED  WITH  WHITE  CHINA  BOWL 

With  thii  mixer  yon  caa  make  an  excellent  maTonuaiw  in  five  minntee. 
The  oil  la  added  antomatically  drop  by  drop,  aToidlng  all  danger  of 
curdling.  Scot,  prepaid,  for  three  (3)  new  nibacrlptioiu.  (Price  Sl'7fl) 


French    BonlniJ    ^^^^^^^"^ 
Knife  4  ibcIi  sii- 

There  are  kitchen  koivei  and  kitchen  knivea,  but 
thii  18  the  best  of  them  all.  The  finest  steel, 
hand-made,  and  hand  sharpened.  Will  last  a 
life  time.  Sent,  prepaid,  for  one  (1)  new  sub- 
scripUoD.    (Price  OOc.) 


POTATO  BALL  CUTTER 


Por  catting  balls  of  potatoes  or  other  rwe- 
tables.  The  be«t  of  its  kind.  Sent,  prep^ 
for  one  (1)  new  subscription.     (Price  aOc.) 


APPI^ETON'S    COMPLETE    HOME    LIBRARY 


Appleton'a  Prices,  (1.35  a  volume;  tS.DO  for  the  ML 

The  Complete  Dreasmaker  Is  a  thorough  course  In 
sewing  and  the  cutting,  fitting  and  making  of  wearing 
apparel.  It  does  not  deal  with  styles  or  fashions  but  en- 
brely  with  the  practical  knowledge  that  is  required.  This 
course  is  written  by  Mary  1.  Mclntyre,  iDstiuctor  of 
Professional  Dressmaklog  at  Pratt  Institute  in  Brooklyn. 

This  book  also  contains  a  full  conne  In  Millinery  by 
BIme.  Ben-Yuauf,  Instructor  in  Millincrr  at  Pratt  Institute. 

The  Complete  Beanty  Book  is  a  guide  to  health 
and  the  development  of  fioe  personal  apprarance,  charm 
and  winsomeneaik  It  is  a  serious  t>ook  free  from  all  quack- 
ery and  sentimeat,  tnit  replete  with  every  direction  for 
acquiring  that  healthy  and  pleasing  personal  appearance 
that  in  the  final  sense  constitutes  true  beauty. 

The  Complete  Home  is  a  handbook  on  the  art  of 
housekeeping  and  of  making  the  home  happy.  It  is  the 
most  practical  and  helpful  book  on  this  subject  ever  written 
and  will  be  found  to  contain  suggestions  worth  far  more 
ttian  the  original  cost  of  the  whole  set. 

The  Complete  Hoateaa  is  a  guide  to  graceful  man- 
ners and  good  taste  in  all  social  matters,  baides  offering 
innumerable  suggeationB  for  home  entertainment  that  are  available  for  everyone. 

The  Complete  Home  Library  (i  volumes)  sent,  prepaid,  for  (4)  new  subscriptions.  (Price  S3.) 


THE  BOSTON  COOKINCSCHOOL   MAGAZINE.  BOSTON,  MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


jg1l|\  quarter-centuty  ago  grandma's  mother  told  her  how  to 
"  ^f^fS^  hathe  a  new  baby  girl.  Today  she,  in  turn,  passes  on 
\\  ^I(^\\  the  same  instructions  to  that  ([irl  now  a  mother  herself. 

'''  ■    And  here  is  what  she  tells  her : 

"Use  soft  water  at  a  tempeiature  of  9S  degrees  in  vrinter 
and  from  BS  degrees  to  90  degrees  in  summer.  Hold  baby 
under  a  blanket.  Moisten  washcloth  and  apply  Ivory  Soap, 
first  to  the  face  and  neck,  then  lo  (he  arms,  next  to  the 
body,  and  last  to  the  legs  and  feet.  Remove  soap  wilh 
sponge.  'Pat' dry  with  a  soft  towel.   Do  not  rub." 

These  directions  have  survived  the  years  because  there 
never  has  been  a  soap  milder  or  purer  than  Ivory  and 
therefore   none  better  suited   for  cleansing  that  most 
delicate  of  all  things,  the  tender  skin  of  a  baby. 

;  IVORY  SOAP .  ; .  99M,%  PURE 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


■ 

The  Advantages  of  Orinkmg  1 

SAWYER'S  IE  SEPTOIA 

1                                 1 

KEY  TO  HKALTHY  HOMES 

BAKER'S 

COCOA 

The  Cocoa  of 

High  Qgalily 

ilie  in  its  absolute 

purity  and  whole- 

someness,   its  deli- 

cious natural  flavor. 

and   its   perfect 

assimilation  by  the 

digestive  organs. 

QUICK  REUEF 

AccidentewiUhappeB;ehildren  are  «'d0Bifr«« from 

Aa  Ihtrt  art  mann  inftHer 

some  kind  or  other.     Septolia  nnt  "dIt  leUcveaiD- 

btiunlotdtiaimulMuiiA 

meiiiately.  but  being  a  perfect  antiseptic,  LUum  br 
SiicgeonBBDd  Fhygiciani   ererrwhere  u  tbe  be»tre- 
commendation  ror  cuts,   burns,  bruiaea,  itlr^a,  etc. 

Ilbainoequalfor  Ihe  aick-rooro. 

lOc  25c,  SOc  75c  $1.00  BoHIm 

Walter  Baker  i®,  Co.  Ltd. 

At  Four  Grocer's  or  Dratgiata' 

Sawyer   Crystal   Blue  Co^ 

Hiken  iltht  FuBOU  Siwyv'*  CinM  IIm 
88  BIOAD  ST..   BOSTON.  MASS..  U-  S.  A. 

VEUVK  CBAFFARD 

Boston  Mustard  With 

PURE  OLIVE  OIL 

Boston  Baked  Beans 

BOTTLED  IN  FRANCE 

When  properlr  prepared  there's  no  dlahmn-edeliciaiu. 
nutritlouB  and  economical.     "Saturday  Beaoa"  iaaDlti- 
jtitution  the  risng  ^neratloD  should  cheruh. 

A  tablespoon  fill  of  SUcknaj  ft  Poor-a  Muatard  to 

a  quart  of  beam  giies  them  just  the  riRht  llaTw  and 

mikea  them  di«e»Iible.    That's  the  aecret  of  BoatoD-* 

'''Fo''t''neu"'ac«nt'iry  Stlokney  *  Poor's  Muatard  ha* 

IN  HONEST 

ery  fanwD*.     You  can  depend  upon  ila  uniform  quality. 
AlmoBt    erery    inicer 

BOTTLES 

sell.  It  In  M  and  «.lb. 
can    at   lOc.   and    *oc. 
Write  for  our    book   of 
receipts  :  you  will  be  de- 

"ffikSyk  r._-. 

OoTci.    Otniet.     Mace. 
Pimento.    Sage.  SaTOTy, 

Curry  Powder.  Paprika, 

FULL  QUARTS 

T>irioca.Nulm*c.  Cassia. 
Allspice.    Whol?    Miv2 

FULL    PINTS 

Spire,  Pastry  Spico^  Tur- 
meric.     Tliyme,    Soda, 

FULL  1-2  PINTS 

Cream  of    TsrUr,    Rice 
Flour.  Potato  Flour.  Sau- 

Exlracti. 

SOLD   BY 

STICKNEY  &  POOR  SPICE  CO. 

PARK  &  TILFORD,  New  York 

184  State  St.,  Boston 

S.  S.  PIERCE  CO..  BOSTON 

M     ^     THE    NATIONAL      JT     M 
Y    Y     MUSTARD    rOT      V    W 

"THE   GIRL   WHO   COOKED" 

THE  BOSTON 

C  "SC 

"magazine 

OFCULINAR>YSCIENCBAND- 
DOMESTIC  •  ECONOMICS 


The  Secret  of  Perieet  Cooking 

'PO  make  the  gem  on  your  breakfast  table  light, 
delicate  and  digestible — your  evening  biscuit 
or  toothsome  cake — use  the  one  powder  that 
never  fails — Rumford.  Remember,  too,  per- 
fect wholesomeness  comes  in  the  use  of 

Ruinf  Ord  the  wholesome 

Baking  Powder. 


A   COMPANION    VOLUME   TO    "THE 
BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  COOK-BOOK" 

A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 

fFith  Eight  Colored  Plates  and  more  than  Two  Hundred  Illustrations  in  Hay-  Tone 

440  Pages.     Cloth,  $L60,  net.     By  mail,  $1.75 


The  "  New  Book  of  Cookery  "  contains  more  than 
eight  hundred  recipes  upon  all  branches,  including  many 
new  and  important  dishes  not  to  be  found  in  any  other 
work. 

An  almost  indispensable  companion  to  the  author's 
invaluable  "  Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book." 

This  book  presents  the  latest  triumphs  of  the  culinary  art. 
It  is  very  fully  and  attractively  illustrated. — New  York  Sun, 


3 


jt 

Cookery 


LITTLE,  BROWN  &  CO.,  Publishers,   -    -    BOSTON 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


■•OUR     PLATFORM" 


Buy  advertised  Gooda. —  do  not  accept  substitu 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING 


SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Vol.  XVIII 


OCTOBER.  1913 


No.  3 


CONTENTS  FOR  OCTOBER 

PAGE 

MENUS  FOR  OCTOBER  LUNCHEONS  AND  TEAS   ...  185 

THE  ART  OF  BASKET-MAKING     (Illustrated)     .      C  M.  C.  187 

IN  OCTOBER C.  A.  M.  Dolson  191 

ESSENTIALS  OF  HAPPY  HOME-MAKING 

Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson  192 

TWILIGHT  FRATERNITY 195 

A  YARD  OF  RHUBARB Ruth  Moench  Bell  196 

MAKING  THE  KITCHEN  ATTRACTIVE    Mrs.  A.  G.  M.  Neil  197 

AN  EXPERIMENT  IN  ECONOMICS  .     Susie  Bouchelle  Wight  199 

THE  GIRL  WHO  COOKED     ....       Mary  Carolyn  Davies  201 

EDITORIALS 206-8 

SEASONABLE   RECIPES  ( Illustrated  with  half-tone  engravings 

of  prepared  dishes) Janet  M.  Hill  209 

MENUS  FOR  WEEK  IN  OCTOBER „      „      „  218 

(Family  with  Young  Children) 

MENUS  FOR  WEEK  IN  OCTOBER „      „      „  219 

DIET  IN  URIC  ACID  DISORDERS     Minnie  Genevieve  Morse  220 

HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 224 

My  Company  Salad  Dressing  —  Eating  or  Dining  —  Boneless 
Bass  Easy  —  No  More  Ants. 

QUERIES  AND  ANSWERS 227 

NEW  WAYS  OF  SERVING Kate  Hudson  236 

MISCELLANEOUS 240 


$1.00  A  YEAR 


lOc  A  COPY 


Pnbllshed  Ten  Times  a  Year 
Four  Years'   Snbscrlptton*   $  3.00 
Ealared  at  Boston  post-offlca  as  sacondl-claaa  mattar.    Copyrl^kt.  1913.  by 

THE     BOSTON     COOKING     SCHOOL     MAGAZINE     COMPANY 
372  BOYLSTON    STREET  BOSTON.  MASSACHUSETTS 


Please  Renew  on  Receipt  of  the  Colored  Blank  Enclosed  for  that  Purpose 

178 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Eoerybody's  i 
Favorite      " 


SALAD  DRESSING 

The  most  delidous  salad  you  can 
make  tUitnj<s  Yacht  Club  dres^ng  j 

a  poorer  salad  requires  it 
— And  it  betters  cold 

meats,  game  and  tinned 

fish. 

—Every  one  oF  ihe  hundred 

wayi  of  unng  Yacfal  Club  ii  a 

gooilway,  mily. 

WTUmtorFTmaRmKip^Boek 


INDEX  FOR  OCTOBER 


196 


A  Yard  of  Rhubarb        .      .      . 

An  Experiment  in  Economies  ....  199 

Diet  in  Uric  Acid  Disorders     ....  220 

Editorials 206 

Essentials  in  Happy  Home-Maldng    .     .  192 

Home  Ideas  and  Economics     ....  224 

In  October 191 

Making  the  Kitchen  Attractive     ...  197 

Menus 185,218,219 

New  Ways  of  Serving 236 

The  Art  of  Basket-Making 187 

The  Girl  Who  Cooked 201 

Twilight  Frateniity 195 

Seasonable  Recipes: 

Almonds,  Deviled 210 

Biscuit,  Oatmeal,  III 217 

Bluefiah,  Baked,  111 213 

Buncheer  Caroline 209 

Beef,  Loin  Roast  of,  IH 213 

Beef,  Roast  Fillet  of,  III 214 

Cakes,  Tuna  Fish 210 

Caviare  in  Tomato  Cups       ....  210 

Chicken,  Panned,  lU 213 

Chicken,  Hungarian  Style,  III.   .      .      .  212 

Crabapples,  Glaced  217 

Dressing,  Bread  for  Baked  Fish       .      .  212 

Muffins,  Corn  Meal,  111 217 

Oyster,  Chaudfroid 209 

Paste,  Biscuit,  for  Meat  Pie.      .      .      .  214 

Pie  from  Remnants  of  Roast  Beef,  III.  144 

Pickles,  Rummage 217 

Potatoes,  Mashed 211 

Potatoes,  Paprika,  with  Fish,  etc,   .  211 

Roulettes 209 

Rolls,  Parker  House,  111 216 

Salad,  Egg  and  Tomato 215 

Sauce,  Bernaise 215 

Sauce,  Currant  Mint 214 

Soup,  Black-bean 210 

Swordfish,  Sauted,  lU 211 

Queries  and  Answers: 

Beans  Baked  with  Tomato  Sauce   .     .  230 

Bread,  Differences  in  Milk  and  Water  228 

Cake,  Dark  Fruit 232 

Cookies,  Bran 232 

Cookies,  Molasses 234 

Desserts  free  of  sugar 228 

Diet  to  Cure  Rheumatism    ....  234 

Food  for  College  Boy 230 

Sam,  Strawberry 228 

elly  Roil 227 

elly,  Strawberry 228 

Leeping  Parsley 227 

Lady  Fingers        227 

Muffins,  English 228 

Mustard,  Bottled 230 

Nuts  for  Meat 232 

Orange  Peel,  Candied 230 

Peaches,  Spiced 230 

Pickles,  Dill 227 

Pickles,  Sour  Cucumber 234 

Pickles,  Sweet  Cucumber     ....  234 

Potatoes,  Hashed  Brown      ....  234 

Potatoes  in  Bread 234 

Sauce,  for  Broiled  Live  Lobster.     .     .  228 

Soup,  KonUet 232 

Soups  for  Sugar-free  Diet      ....  228 

Viscogen  andSldn  Cream     ....  232 

Waffles,  with  Sour  or  Buttermilk    .     .  228 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —.do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


We  say  wonderful  books — and  they  are  wonderful  —  wonderful 
in  their  simplicity  and  ease,  their  goodness,  their  up-to-date 
methods,  and  the  absolute  sureness  of  the  recipes.  You  cannot 
make  mistakes  with  this  for  a  guide. 

Mn.  Rorer's  New  C(x>k  Book 

Cloth,  $2.00 :  by  mail,  $2.20 

Philadelphia  Cook  Book 

Cloth,  $1.00:  by  mail,  $1.15 

Vegetable  Cookery  and 
Meat  Substitutes 

Cloth,  $1.50 1  by  mail,  $1.65 

Every  Day  Menu  Book 

Cloth,  $1.50  X  by  mail,  $1.65 

My  Best  250  Recipes ^ 

Ice  Cream,  Water  Ices,  etc 
Canning  and  Preserving. . . 

New  Salads 

Dainties 


Cloth 

75  cents 

by  mail 

85  cents 

each 


How  to  Use  a  Chafing 

Sandwiches 

Many  Ways  for  Cooking  Eggs 

Made-Over  Dishes 

Home  Candy  Making 

Hot  Weather  Dishes 

Cakesy  Icings  and  Fillings 

Bread  and  Bread  Making 


Cloth 

50  cents 
>•  by  mail 
55  cents 
each 


New  Ways  for  Oysters  )    Cloth.  25  cents 

V  by  mail,  30  cents 
Quick  Soups )  each 


Of  all  bookstores  and  department  stores ^  or 

ARNOLD  &  COMPANY,  420  Sansom  St.,  Philadelphia 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

181 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Books  on  Household  Economics 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  presents  the  following  as  a  list  of  repre- 
sentative  works  on  household  economics.    Any  of  the  books  will  be  sent  postpaid  upon 
receipt  of  price. 
With   an   order   amounting   to  $5  or   more   we   include   a   year's  subscription  to  THE 
BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  (price  $1). 

Special  rates  made  to  schools,  clubs  and  persons  wishing  a  number  of  books.  Write  for 
quotation  on  the  list  of  books  you  wish.  We  carry  a  very  large  stock  of  these  books.  One  order 
to  us  saves  effort  and  express  charges. 


A-B-Z  of  Our  Own  Nutrition.  Horace 

Fletcher     1.00 

Air,  Water  and  Food.      Richards    and 

Woodman     2.00 

American  Salad  Book.  M.  DeLoup...  1.00 
Art    of    Home    Candy-Making    (with 

thermometer,  dipping  wire,  etc.)  3.00 

Art  of  Right  Living.     Richards 50 

Baby,  The.     A  book  for  mothers  and 

nurses.   D.  R.  Brown,  M.  D 1.00 

Bacteria,    Yeasts    and    Molds    in    the 

Home.    H.  W.  Conn 1.20 

Blue  Grass  Cook  Book.  Minnie  C.  Fox  2.00 
Book  of  Entrees.  Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill  1.50 
Book  of  Good  Manners.  Kingsland...  1.50 
Boston  Cook  Book.  Mary  J.  Lincoln  2.00 
Boston   Cooking   School    Cook    Book. 

Fannie   M.   Farmer    2.00 

Boston    School    Kitchen    Text    Book. 

Mary  J.  Lincoln  1.00 

Bread  and  Bread-making.  Mrs.  Rorer  .50 
Bright  Ideas  for  Entertaining.  Linscott  .50 
Brussels  Charts  (Two.)    Showing  cuts 

of  Beef,  Lemb  and  Veal  2.00 

Cakes,  Icings  and  Fillings.  Mrs.  Rorer  .50 
Cakes,  Cake  Decorations  and  Desserts. 

King    1.00 

Candy  Making  Revolutionized.     Mary 

Elizabeth  Hall 75 

Canning  and  Preserving.  Mrs.  Rorer  .50 
Care  and  Feeding  of  Children.     L.  E. 

Holt,   M.D 75 

Care  of  a  Child  in  Health.    N.  Oppen- 

heim    1.25 

Care  of  a  House.    T.  M.  Clark 50 

Carving  and  Serving.  Mary  J.  Lincoln  .60 
Century  Cook  Book.  Mary  Roland..  2.00 
Chemistry  in  Daily  Life.  Lessar-Cohn  1.75 
Chemistry    of    Cookery.    W.    Mattieu 

Williams    1.50 

Chemistry   of   Cooking    and    Cleaning 

Richards  and  Elliott  1.00 

Chemistry    of    Food    and    Nutrition. 

Sherman    1.50 

Clean  Milk.    S.  D.  Belcher 1.00 

Cleaning  and  Renovating.  E.  G.  Osman  .75 
Color,    Harmony    and    Contrast.     Jas. 

Wood 4.20 

Complete     Home,     The.      Clara     E. 

Laughlin    1.25 

Cook  Book  for  Nurses.  Sarah  C.  Hill  .75 
Cooking  for  Two.  Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill  1.50 
Cost  of  Cleanness.     Richards   1.00 


Cost  of  Food.     Richards  1.00 

Cost  of  Living.    Richards 1.00 

Cost  of  Shelter.     Richards   1.00 

Dainties.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 

Desserts — One  Hundred  Recipes.     By 

Filippini     30 

Dietetic  Value  of  Bread.    John  Good- 
fellow   1.50 

Dictionary  of  Cookery.    Cassell 2.50 

Domestic      Science      in      Elementary 

Schools.     Wilson    1.00 

Domestic  Service.     Lucy  M.  Salmon..  2.00 

Dust  and  Its  Dangers.     Pruden 75 

Economics  of  Modern  Cookery.  M.  M. 

Mallock    1.00 

Elements  of  the  Theory  and  Practice 

of  Cookery.    Williams  and  Fisher...   1.00 
Equipment     for    Teaching     Domestic 

Science.     Kinne   80 

Etiquette      of      New     York      Today. 

Learned   1.35 

Etiquette  of  Today.    Ordway .50 

European  and  American  Cuisine.    Mrs. 

Lemcke 2.00 

Euthenics.     Richards    1.00 

Every  Day  Menu  Book.    Mrs.  Rorer..   1.50 
Expert  Waitress.    A.  F.  Springsteed..   1.00 

Family  Food.  O'Donnell  1.00 

First  Lessons  in  Food  and  Diet 30 

Fish — One  Hundred  Recipes  for  Cook- 
ing Fish.     Filippini 35 

First  Principles  of  Nursing.    Anne  R. 

Manning    I.OCJ 

Food  and  Cookery  for  the   Sick  and 

Convalescent.   Fannie  M.  Farmer 1.60 

Food  and  Dietaries.     R.    W.    Burnett 

M.  D 1.50 

Food      and      Feeding.        Sir      Henry 

Thompson     1.35 

Food  and  Its  Function.    James  Knight  1.00 
Food  and  the  Principles  of  Dietetics. 

Hutchinson     3.00 

Food  for  the  Invalid  and  the  Convales- 
cent.    Gibbs   75 

Food  in  Health  and    Disease.     I.    B. 

Yeo,  M.  D 2.50 

Food   Materials   and   Their   Adultera- 
tions.    Richards    1.00 

Food  Products  of  the  World.    Mary  E. 

Green    1.50 

Franco-American  Cookery  Book.     D^ 
liee  3.50 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

182 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


French  Household  Cookine.  Keyser..  .60 
Fuels  of  the  Household.  Marian  White  .75 
Golden  Rule  Cook  Book  (600  Recipes 

for  Meatless  Dishes).     Sharpe 2.00 

Guide  to  Modem  Cookery.  M.  Escoffier  4.00 
Handbook  of  Home  Economics.  Flagg  .75 
Handbook    of    Hospitality    for    Town 

and  Country.     Florence  H.  Hall 1.50 

Handbook  of  Invalid  Cooking.     Mary 

A.  Boland  2.00 

Handbook  on  Sanitation.    G.  M.  Price, 

M.  D 1.50 

Healthful    Farm    House,   The.     Helen 

Dodd    60 

Home  Candy  Making.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Home  Economics.    Maria  Parloa 1.50 

Home  Economics  Movement 75 

Home  Nursing.     Harrison   1.00 

Home  Problems  from  a  New  Standpoint  1.00 
Home  Science  Cook  Book.    Anna  Bar- 
rows and  Mary  J.  Lincoln 1.00 

Homes  and  Their  Decoration.    French  3.00 

Hot  Weather  Dishes.     Mrs.  Rorer 50 

House  Sanitation.     Talbot 80 

Household  Bacteriology.  Buchanan..  2.25 
Household  Economics.  Helen  Campbell  1.50 
Household  Science.  Junita  L.  Shepperd  1.75 

How  To  Cook  Fish.     Olive  Green 1.00 

How  To  Cook  for  the  Sick  and  Con- 

vadescent.    H.  V.  Sachse  1.00 

How  To  Feed    Children.     Louise    E. 

Hogan    1.00 

How  to  Use  a  Chafing  Dish.  Mrs.  Rorer    .50 

Himian  Foods.    Snyder 1.25 

Ice  Cream,  Water  Ices,  etc.    Rorer  ...     .75 

Institution  Recipes.    Smedley 1.25 

International  Cook  Book.    Filippini...   1.00 

Kitchen  Companion.     Parloa 2.50 

Laundry  Manual.  Balderston  and  Lim- 
erick     50 

Laundry  Work.     Juanita  L.  Shepperd    .60 
Lessons  in  Cooking  Through  Prepara- 
tion of  Meals  2.00 

Lessons  in  Elementary  Cooking.   Mary 

C.    Jones 1.08 

Like  Mother  Used  to  Make.  Herrick.  1.25 
Louis'     Salad     and     Chafing     Dishes. 

Muckensturm     50 

Luncheons.     Mary  Roland  1.40 , 

Made-over  Dishes.     Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Many  Wajrs  for  Cooking  Eggs.     Mrs. 

Rorer    50 

Menu  Book  and   Register   of  Dishes. 

Senn    2.50 

Mothers',  The,  Guide.    Coolidge 50 

My  Best  250  Recipes.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 

New  Book  of  Cookery,  A.  Fannie  M. 

Farmer 1.60 

New  Hostess  of  Today.    Lamed 1.50 

New  Salads.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 

Nursing,  Its  Principles  and    Practice. 

Isabel  H.  Robb  2.00 

Nutrition  of  Man.    Chittenden  3.00 


Old  Time  Recipes  for    Home    Made 

Wines.    Helen  S.  Wright  1.50 

One     Hundred     Mushroom     Recipes. 

Sargent    50 

One  Woman's  Work  for  Farm  Women    .50 

Paper  Bag  Cookery.    Soyer 60 

Pleasures  of  the  Table.    Elwanger 2.50 

Practical  Cooking  and  Dinner  Giving. 

Mrs.  Mary  F.  Henderson 1.50 

Practical  Cooking  and  Serving.     Mrs. 

Janet  M.  Hill 1.50 

Practical  Dietetics.    Gilman  Thompson  5.00 
Practical    Points    in    Nursing.     Emily 

A.  M.  Stoney  1.75 

Principles  of  Home  Decoration.    Can- 
dace  Wheeler    1.80 

Principles  of  Human  Nutrition.  Jordan  1.75 
Proper  Feeding  of  the  Family.     Gibbs    .25 

Quick  Soups.    Mrs.  Rorer 25 

Register  of  Foods 1.00 

Rorer's  (Mrs.)  New  Cook  Book. 2.00 

Salads  and  Sauces.    Murray 50 

Salads,  Sandwiches,  and  Cfhafing  Dish 

Dainties.     Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill 1.50 

Sanitation  in  Daily  Life.    Richards 60 

Sewing  Course  for  Schools.    Woolman  1.50 

Story  of  Germ  Life.    H.  W.  Conn 35 

Soyer's  Standard  Cookery  1.50 

Sunday  Night  Suppers.    Christine  Ter- 

hune  Herrick  1.00 

The  Up-to-Date  Waitress.    Mrs.  Janet 

M.   Hill    1.50 

The  Woman  Who  Spends.     Bertha  J. 

Richardson    1.00 

Till  the  Doctor  Comes,  and  How  To 

Help  Him  1.00 

Vegetable  Cookery  and  Meat    Substi- 
tutes.    Mrs.  Rorer  1.50 

Vegetarian  Cookery.    A.  G.  Payne 50 

With  a  Saucepan  Over  the  Sea.    Ade- 
laide  Keen    1.50 

Women    and     Economics.      Charlotte 

Perkins  Stetson    1.50 

Woman's  Share  in   Primitive   Culture. 

Otis  J.  Mason  1.75 

World's  Commercial  Products,  The.  . .  3.60 


Library  of  Home  Economics: 


The  Bone 

Hevetlioli  Baderielefr 
Beaetliey  ByileBe 
ChcmitlryeltEe  fleveeheli 
Friodplee  of  Cedkeiy 
Food  ani  Dielellct 


floot^U  Meaegefliea 
Ptrtenal  flytfkiie 
Bone  C«e  el  the  Sick 
Texillee  eod  Clethlatf 
Slndy  el  CUM  Lite 
Care  el  ChiUren 


t 


(May   be   purchased    as   a   set   or 
singly  at  $1.50  a  volume). 

Appleton's 
The  Complete  Home  Library 

The  Complete  flooleei  I   The  Complete  Dreeemaker 

The  Complete  Borne  I   The  Compete  Beaoty  Booh 

Publishers'  price  $1.25  per  volume 

Our  Special  Price  (Set^  only,  4  vols.)  3.00 


ADDRESS  ALL  ORDERS 

THE  BOSTON  COOiUN&SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do.not'^accept  substitutes 

183 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


re's 

Le 

son 


i  housekeeper 

■ret  of  light, 
ble  pastrj'  is, 
invariably  say 
ening. "  That 
r  of  saying 

^aurs 

\  PURE** 

Lard 

he  finest  leaf 
in    an    open 

ray  our  grand- 

;  sold  in  sealed 

ere. 

i  gives  better 

jutter.  Keep 
hand  always 

liing  and   one 


(uy  sdvertiaed  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


Menus  for  October  Luncheons  and  Teas 


I. 

(Red  Color  Scheme) 

Caviare  in  Small  Tomato.Cups 

Oysters  Scalloped  in  Shells 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Panned  Guiiiea  Chickens 

Guava  or  Crabapple  Jelly 

Celery-and-Red  Pepper  Salad 

Strawberry  Sherbet  (canned  juice) 

Mocha  on  Little  Cocoanut  Cakes,  Cherry  Ornament 

Coffee 

II. 

(Bulgarian  Color  Scheme) 

Chaudfroid  of  Oysters 

(Beet  and  Egg  Yolk  Decoration) 

Consomme  (with  Truffles,  Carrot  and  Celery) 

Fresh  Mushrooms  under  Glass  Bells 

Breaded  Lamb  Chops,  Baked 

Peas,  CarrotCubes,  Beet  Cubes,  Buttered  Sauce  on  Artichoke  Bottoms,  Half  Glaze.Sauce 

Macedoine  of  Fruit  Salad,  French  Dressing 

Hot  Pulled  Bread  Hot  Cheese  Balls 

Coffee 

IIL 

Macedoine  of  Fresh  Fruit  in  Glass  Cups 

Fillets  of  Fish.Cooked  in  Tomato  Cups,  HoUandaise  Sauce 

Gnocchi  a  la  Romaine 

Celery-and-Red  Pepper  Salad 

Coffee 


IV. 
Cream  of  Cauliflower  Soup 
Egg-£tnd-Tomato  Salad,  Mayonnaise  Dressing 
Parker  House  Rolls  Cup  St.  Jacques 

Honey  Cookies 
Coffee 

Club  Tea 

Bread-and-Sauce  Tartare  Sandwiches 

Oatmeal  Bread  and  Marmalade  Sandwiches 

Tiny  Pound  Cakes  Graham  Wafers 

Oatmeal  Macaroons 
Tea 


The 
Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


VOL.  XVIII 


OCTOBER.  1913 


The  Art  of  Basket  Making 

By  C.  M.  C. 


EVER  since  the  days  when  the 
American  Indians  plied  the  trade 
of  basket  making,  it  has  been  an 
important  industry.  Looking  back,  it 
will  be  found  that  baskets  were  in  those 
days  the  utensils  with  which  the  daily 
domestic  hfe  of  the  Indians  was  carried 
on.  There  were  baskets  for  all  uses, 
among  the  different  tribes,  and  it  was 
in  the  Southwest,  along  the  Pacific  slope 
and  in  Alaska  that  the  art  attained  its 
highest  perfection.  The  materials  used 
at  that  time  were  largely  determined  by 
their  environment,  causing  different 
tribes  to  make  distinct  and  individual 
types  of  baskets.  Sometimes  they  were 
fashioned  from  the  wild  rye,  which  is 
very  pliable.  Birch  bark,  fern  stocks, 
roots,  grasses,  and  willow  were  all  used 
in  their  make.  They  were  divided  into 
two  types,  woven  and  sewed. 

The  Indian  women  were  very  skilful 
at  spUtting  the  stem  of  the  willow  and 
storing  the  materia!  until  needed.  The 
proper  time  for  gathering  is  when  the 
stalk  has  completed  its  growth,  and 
before  it  commences  to  harden. 

The  baskets  of  today  may  be  said  to  be 
descendants  of  those  made  by  the  In- 
dians, and  prominent  among  them  all, 
even  today,  is  the  Indian  style  of  basket. 
Some  of  these  are  made  with  the  "lazy 
squaw"  weave  or  stitch,  so  called  be- 
cause they  are  easier  to  make  and  require 
less  thought  than  those  in   which  has 


been  put  a  whole  life's  work.  For  this 
basket  we  prepare  the  reed,  trim  it  and 
shape  it  into  a  coil,  winding  the  raffia 
thread  and  weaving  until  one  coil  of  the 
reed  is  covered.  This  is  the  broad  ex- 
planation,— in  detail  the  following  direc- 
tions may  be  followed. 

Hold  the  hemp  coil  in  the  left  hand 
and  wrap  it  with  raffia  for  about  an  inch, 
wrapping  it  toward  you.     Then  make 


HANGING  PLANT  BASKET 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


FOB  GATHERING  FLOWERS 


it  into  the  smallest  ring  possible  and 
sew  it  together  firmly.  Carry  the  raffia 
strand  through  the  center,  pointing  the 
needle  away  from  you.  When  the  spiral 
is  firm,  begin  to  take  the  stitch,  working 
toward  the  left  and  winding  around  the 
hemp  once,  and  then  taking  a  long 
fastening  stitch  down  through  the  mid- 
dle. Then  take  the  fastening  stitch 
only  on  the  last  row  of  the  spiral  for  the 
next  row. 

If  the  squaw  is  inclined  to  slight  her 
weaving,  she  will  wrap  the  single  reed, 
two,  three,  or  four  times  before  taking 
the  much  harder  long  stitch  which  holds 
the  reeds  together.  In  weaving  the 
baskets,  the  raffia  may  be  very  coarse 
but  must  be  kept  even.  The  fingers 
should  be  slightly  moistened  with  water 
so  that  the  little  fine  fibers  of  the  raffia 
will  not  wear  up  so  readily,  and  it  will 
take  a  polished  surface. 

There  are  many  kinds  of  baskets 
made  by  the  modem  basket  makers  and 
almost  all  of  them  conform  to  the  law 
followed  by  the  Indians.  These  baskets 
may  also  be  constructed  on  pottery 
shapes,  suggesting  the  bowl,  cup  or  pan, 
rather  than  in  singular  or  unusual  forms. 
The  sewing  is  done  with  a  number 
seventeen.blunt,  pointed  tapestry -needle, 
threading    with    an    unsplit    strand    of 


raffia.  This  is  wrapped  over  the  closely 
woven  material  called  hemp  packing. 
which  comes  in  thick  cables  of  eleven 
strands  each,  in  the  manner  described 
above. 

It  is  always  advisable  to  purchase  a 
three  yard  coil,  which  saves  the  splicing 
too  often.  This  splicing  is  done  by 
laying  a  new  strand  by  the  side  of  the 
old  and  wrapping  them  firmly  together. 

The  cost  of  these  baskets  is  ven,- 
slight,  raffia  being  exceedingly  cheap.and 
three  yards  of  hemp  packing,  which 
retails  for  35c.  a  yard,  is  more  than 
enough  for  one  of  the  largest  size.     In 


PLAIN  RAFFIA 


THE    ART   OF    BASKET    MAKING 


189 


the  selection  of  the  colored  raffia,  care 
should  be  taken  to  obtain  only  the  soft 
and  clear  tones. 

It  is  a  good  plan  to  color  the  reeds 
oneself,  but  in  order  to  do  so,  they 
should  be  put  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  over 
the  fire,  and  brought  to  a  boil.  Green, 
brown  and  grey  are  favorite  colors,  the 
warm  earth  brown  showing  off  to  ad- 
vantage almost  any  kind  of  a  flower. 
The  prettily  woven  basket  is  rapidly 
coming  into  favor  as  a  receptacle  for 
cut  flowers  and  a  jardiniere  for  potted 
plants.  There  is  a  tendency,  however, 
towards  the  Arts  and  Crafts  basket, 
which  is  of  more  simple  design  and 
weave.  A  lack  of  ornamentation  charac- 
terizes the  more  popular  baskets. 

Baskets  of  all  kinds  are  used  today  for 
household  decorations,  and  are  in  evi- 
dence for  both  table  and  room  ornamen- 
tation. They  have  replaced  to  a  great 
extent  the  taJl  glass  and  the  china  vase, 
and  admit  of  a  much  more  natural 
arrangement  of  flowers. 

If  cut  flowers  are  to  be  sent  to  a 
friend,  it  is  much  prettier  to  put  them 


in  a  small  flat  basket  than  to  send  them 
in  a  box,  and  it  gives  evidence  of  more 
consideration  and  better  taste.  Baskets 
can  be  designed  and  colored  to  harmonize 
with  the  scheme  color  of  a  room.  Sug- 
gestions of  delicate  color  may  be  wrought 
in  a  white  groundwork  for  waste  baskets, 
work  baskets,  and  others  to  be  used  in 
a  chamber, — while  the  deeper  and  more 
brilliant  colorf  may  be  employed  for 
baskets  to  be  used  in  den  or  library. 

RafRa  dyed  with  vegetable  colorings 
may  be  made  harmonious  in  tones  to 
blend  with  the  colors  of  Oriental  rugs, 
but  for  a  cottage  theie  is  nothing  better 
than  to  follow  the  colors  of  the  natural 
landscape,  the  greens  and  browns  and 
the  dull  reds,  making  a  blending  of 
"woodsy"  tones. 

For  a  small  basket,  simply  shaped, 
eighteen  pieces  of  the  reed  may  be  cut, 
each  piece  about  thirty  five  inches  long, 
arranging  the  pieces  in  groups  after  they 
have  been  soaked  in  warm  water  until 
they  are  tender.  Three  of  these  groups 
may  contain  four  pieces,  while  the  other 
one    shows    six.     The    center    of    each 


WHAT  CAN  BE  MADE  OF  RAFFIA 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


BASKET  MAKING 


group  is  then  found,  and  two  groups 
of  four  placed  so  evenly  across  each 
other  that  they  form  a  letter  X,  while 
the  remaining  group  is  horizontally 
placed  across  the  six.  A  table  is  a 
good  place  to  lay  the  spokes,  holding  all 
the  ends  down  flat  until  the  basket  is 
started. 

Place  the  end  of  the  long  weaver  under 
the  first  group,  forming   the  letter  X, 


Run  the  weaver  over  the  next  group 
which  will  be  of  six,  holding  it  down 
with  the  finger.  Then  it  should  be 
passed  under  the  next  group  of  four, 
reversing  it  and  putting  it  over  the  next 
group  continuing  this  process  three 
times  around  until  the  top  of  the  sixth 
group,  is  reached.  Then  run  the  weaver 
under  the  last  two  of  that  group  and 
over  the  next  one,  going  around  three 
times  and  stopping  when  the  same 
place  is  reached.  When  the  groups  are 
divided  into  twos,  the  weaver  follows 
the  process  of  over  two,  under  '.wo,  one 
time  around.  This  is  the  foundation, 
and  if  anyone  studying  the  art  will 
follow  very  closely  after  these  directions, 
he  will  not  find  any  trouble  in  commenc- 
ing the  foundation  of  the  basket.  Once 
this  is  learned,  it  is  a  very  simple  matter 
to  shape  it  and  finish  it  off. 

For  tools,  the  beginner  will  need  a 
pair  of  nippers,  a  pair  of  pliers,  and  an 
awl,  although  much  can  be  accomplished 
with  a  sharp  knife  and  a  pair  of  shears, 
and  a  large  knitting  needle  can  be  used 
if  one  has  no  awl.  Before  commencing 
the  work,  one  should  soak  the  material 
in  warm  water  for  from  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes.  If  that  is  not  obtainable, 
cold  water  will  do,  but  it  takes  a  longer 
time.  The  reed  must  be  soaked  until 
it  is  pliable  and  naturally  the  larger  the 


IN  OCTOBER 


191 


weave,  the  longer  time  it  takes  to  make 
it  flexible. 

After  the  basket  is  finished,  a  little 
sand  paper  removes  any  roughness;  a 
coat  of  equal  parts  of  turpentine  and 
light  oil  finish  may  be  used,  or  possibly 
gxiin  shellac,  previously  dissolved  in 
alcohol.  Good  paste  or  wax  may  be 
used  also,  but  must  be  applied  with  a 
soft  cloth  and  afterwards  polished  with 
a  stiff  brush. 


Originality  of  design  is  of  great  value 
as  well  as  manual  dexterity.  At  first, 
of  course,  it  is  well  to  copy  good  models, 
but  half  the  benefit  and  pleasure  is  lost 
if  one  does  not  attempt  originality- 
Experiment  should  be  undertaken,  at 
first  along  the  well-known  lines  and 
with  materials  that  have  been  tested. 
When  one  has  had  experience,  however, 
one  can  do  much  with  almost  any  kind 
of  a  reed,  rattan,  willow,  or  grass. 


IN  HOMELY  FASHION 


In  October 


The  frost  has  touched  the  tr< 
With  crimson,  and  with  bf 
And,  loosened  from  their 


e  tumbling  down. 

In  sweeping  flight,  toward  southern  strand 

The  birds  of  passage  go; 
And  Boon  must  stretch,  on  either  hand, 

Wide  wastes  of  ice  and  snow. 


But  oh,  these  still,  fair  autumn  da\ 
The  blue  bills  of  the  noon, 

Far  fields  that  lie  in  smoky  haze. 
At  night  the  hunter's  moon! 

All.  all  of  these  my  soul  will  store 
To  make  my  heart  beat  warm 

When  loud  at  window  and  at  door 
Knocks  the  wild  winter  storm. 
Cora  A.  Matson 


Essentials  of  Happy  Homemaking 

By  Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson 

To  he  happy  at  home  is  the  ultimate  result  of  all  ambition;  the  end  to  which  every  enterprise  and 
labour  tends ^  and  of  which  every  desire  prompts  the  prosecution. — Johnson. 


WHO  ever  saw  a  newly-married 
pair  and  did  not  feel  that  they 
had  securely  corralled  Cupid 
by  the  surest  and  strongest  measures 
extant?  It  is  only  the  pioneer  settlers 
of  matrimony  who  know  how  soon  the 
little  gnawing  discontents  of  domesticity 
may  afford  the  small  god  a  loophole  for 
escape!  **As  though  he  ever  would  wish 
to  escape!"  Comes  the  derisive  retort 
from  bride  and  benedict,  and  the  pioneer 
settler  bethinks  him  of  the  man  who 
once  held  a  dime  so  close  to  his  eyes 
that  it  blotted  out  the  sun,  as  he  sees 
them  adjusting  their  self-conceit  in  the 
face  of  a  glaring  truth. 

If  every  couple  entering  the  unculti- 
vated territory  of  wedded  life  coiild 
approach  it  in  true  pioneer  spirit,  know- 
ing the  price  of  the  new  claim  is  eternal 
vigilance  and  that  the  bargain  calls  for 
team  work,  the  well  worn  trail  to  the 
divorce  court  would  soon  fade  from  the 
landscape.  For  the  comer-stone  of 
successfiil  matrimony  was,  is  and  always 
shall  be  co-operation. 

We  rarely  see  a  young  man  approach- 
ing the  responsibility  of  providing  for  a 
home  without  having  first  gained  the 
mastery  of  some  trade  or  profession 
whereby  he  can  assume  the  financial  end 
of  his  obligation;  but  how  about  the 
young  woman?  Has  she  a  working 
knowledge  of  housekeeping,  does  she,  in 
fact.know  any  of  the  rudiments  of  home- 
making,  or  even  the  value  of  a  dollar? 
We  take  much  pride  in  shielding  Beatrice, 
Rosalind,  or  Estelle  from  what  we  un- 
advisedly call  '*the  hardships  of  life,'* 
but  what  we  inwardly  know  meant  the 
bedrock  of  integrity  and  honest  living  for 
ourselves.  We  are  justifiedly  proud, 
too,  of  the  little  social  graces  she  acquired 
at  finishing  school  and  in  supplementary 

192 


travel,  but  what  of  the  day  of  reckoning, 
when  she  marries  the  struggling  young 
professional  man  and  is  left  alone  to 
fight  out  the  handicaps  of  her  early 
training? 

It  is  just  this  ferment  of  open  revolt, 
working  its  way  out  in  haphazard  experi- 
mentation and  through  the  divorce 
courts,  that  is  furnishing  the  leaven  for 
the  new  ideals  of  home-making  and  the 
establishment  of  domestic  training 
schools  throughout  the  length  and 
breadth  of  our  land. 

Not  but  that  we  should,  each  and  all, 
say  a  hearty  *'amen*'  for  all  education 
that  makes  for  true  culture,  but  may  our 
discernment  lead  us  to  the  proper  bal- 
ance of  practical  and  ideal.  One  of  the 
most  revered  educators  in  this  country, 
who  has  dedicated  her  life  to  the  study  of 
Grecian  Art  and  history,  affords  me  a 
striking  example  of  how  warped  one 
may  allow  her  interests  to  render  her. 
Although  this  woman  maintains  a  large 
house,  she  is  at  the  abject  mercy  of  every 
tradesman  whom  she  patronizes,  and 
when  serv'^antless,  which  is  often,  cannot 
make  herself  an  acceptable  cup  of  cocoa. 
Ensconced  in  a  beautiful  home,  decorated 
along  Greek  lines  and  adorned  with 
wonderful  art  treasures  of  ancient  Greece, 
her's  is  often  a  choice  of  mal-nutrition, 
hunger-strike,  or  capitiilation  to  some 
animated  Aphrodite  blessed  with  a  little 
culinary  knowledge.  All  of  which  goes 
to  prove  that  some  domestic  experience 
is  as  necessary  for  those  who  aspire  to  be 
competent  mistresses  as  for  the  woman 
who  expects  to  put  her  knowledge  to 
practical  use. 

Taken  for  granted  that  mutual  love 
and  respect  are  the  basic  principles  of 
marriage  and  that  absolute  candor  and 
fidelity  on  the  part  of  each  are  the  f unda- 


ESSENTIALS    OF    HAPPY    HOME-MAKING 


193 


mentals  of  all  successful  home-making, 
qualification  as  wage-earner,  for  the 
man,  and  ability  to  keep  or  supervise 
a  home,  for  the  woman,  are  unquestion- 
ably the  prime  requirements  in  this  joint 
undertaking. 

Perhaps,  next  in  importance  is  for  the 
wife  to  have  a  true  valuation  of  money. 
If  a  daughter  is  to  be  debarred  the  edu- 
cational discipline  of  ever  earning  a  dol- 
lar for  herself,  she  should  early  in  life 
be  accustomed  to  the  handling  of  money. 
Teaching  the  alphabet  and  inculcating 
the  exacting  rules  governing  the  three 
R*s  are  matters  of  pressing  concern  with 
us,  but  the  worthwhile  initiation  in  the 
all-important  task  of  money  spending  is 
left  to  the  dubious  methods  of  Chance. 
There  is  no  better  way  to  circumvent  this 
prevalent  condition  of  affairs  than  to 
entrust  the  daughter  of  tender  years  with 
a  smaU  allowance  and  to  insist  that  the 
money  given  yield  something  in  return. 
No  matter  if  the  amount  is  small,  let 
it  be  thoroughly  imderstood  that  it  is  to 
cover  certain  definite  purposes ;  so  much 
for  the  Sunday  school  collection,  so 
much  for  hair  ribbons,  so  much  for  de- 
sired toys  or  books;  but  if,  in  a  moment 
of  temptation,  the  book  money  is  rashly 
expended  for  bonbons,  let  no  mournful 
entreaty  induce  you  to  increase  the 
week's  stipend,  thus  will  the  child  learn 
the  incalcuable  lesson  of  the  rigidity  of  a 
fixed  income.  And  above  all  let  the 
allowance  be  given  with  clock-like  pre- 
dsion  at  the  time  specified,  for  regularity 
has  an  undeniable  steadying  influence  on 
the  yoimg.  Undoubtedly,  the  best  re- 
sults will  be  obtained  where  some  small 
household  service  must  be  rendered  in 
return  for  the  allowance.  Let  Beatrice, 
Rosalind,  or  Estelle  keep  the  plants 
watered,  the  canary  fed,  her  bureau 
drawers  tidied,  and  her  room  dusted,each 
day.  Capability  in  handling  a  small 
amount  of  money  should  be  rewarded  by 
a  gradual  increase  of  allowance  until  the 
young  woman  is  solely  responsible  for 
her  individual  needs .  Such  home  school- 
ing in  economics  would  leave  the  bride 


at  the  threashold  of  her  own  door  quali- 
fied to  administer  the  financial  side  of 
domestic  affairs.  A  person  so  groimded 
will  proudly  lift  her  head  above  public 
opinion  and  find  her  greatest  pleasure  in 
standardizing  her  home.  The  penurious- 
ness  of  the  neighbor  on  the  left,  the 
flaunting  extravagances  of  the  neighbor 
on  the  right  would  find  no  imitation  in 
her  household  budget.  Such  a  woman 
will  not  be  guilty  of  squandering  twenty 
dollars  for  an  unnecessary  willow  plume 
and  then  pin  her  economical  pride  to  the 
fact  that  she  saves  the  rag  money! 

And  right  here  looms  up  another  re- 
quirement of  happy  home-making  and 
that  is  that  there  shoiild  be  a  proper  ap- 
portionment of  the  family  income,  the 
wife's  allotment  being  » for  stipulated 
needs  of  household  expenditures  and  her 
personal  requirements.  For  what  shall 
it  profit  a  woman  to  be  efficient  in  the 
guarding  and  spending  of  money,  if  she 
is  not  allowed  such  share  of  the  income 
as  she  is  entitled?  Let  the  head  of  the 
house,  therefore,  see  to  it  that  his  wallet 
and  his  wife's  wallet  look  like  twins, 
remembering  that  even  love  fleeth  from 
the  hands  of  a  stingy  man.  Let  the 
wife  also  bear  in  mind  that  nowhere 
does  unity  of  effort  spell  success  or  fail- 
ure more  tellingly  than  in  this  selfsame 
domain.  Notwithstanding  the  fact  that 
a  woman  may  be  found  adequate  to  dis- 
burse household  fimds,  she  can  through 
foolish  moods  and  petty  jealousies  com- 
pletely bankrupt  her  partner.  I  have 
seen  the  jealous  bride  of  a  successful 
young  dentist  make  such  serious  itjroads 
on  his  profession  that  he  was  obliged  to 
abandon  his  practice  in  his  home-town 
and  establish  himself  elsewhere.  And 
we  have  all  of  us  known  the  envious  or 
super-sensitive  type  of  physician's  wife 
who,  through  similarly  unpleasant  tac- 
tics and  her  own  short-sightedness,  has 
robbed  the  home-nest  of  some  of  its 
softest  feathers.  The  harboring  of  sus- 
picion is  a  dangerous  pastime.  Oust  it 
as  a  weed  from  the  garden.  For  there 
is  small  incentive  for  a  man  to  persevere 


194 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


and  keep  doing  right  who  is  always  sus- 
pected of  wrong  doing. 

After  the  financial  question  with  its 
varying  aspects  has  been  agreeably  set- 
tled, the  next  step  toward  connubial  con- 
cord is  found  m  husband  and  wife  shar- 
ing some  joint  interest,  and,  in  the  goodly 
aeons  this  sturdy  old  world  has  been 
spinning  on  its  axis,  nothing  seems  to 
have  filled  the  bill  like  the  task  of  rearing 
a  brood  of  lusty  youngsters.     There  is 
yet  to  be  discovered  that  which  can  give 
greater  strength  to  the  foundation  of 
domestic  relations  or  moie  firmly  weld 
the    affections    of    husband    and    wife. 
And  this  does  not  mean  the  crushing  or 
blotting  out  of  individual  interests  for 
either  the  man  or  the  woman.     If  the 
young  husband  sings  acceptably  or  makes 
artistic  pictures  with  his  camera,  by  all 
means  encotu^age  such  gifts.     If,  on  the 
other  hand,  the  wife  plays  some  musical 
instrument,  is  talented  in  painting  or 
clever  with  her  pen,  bid  her  continue. 
It  will  not  only  make  for  a  richer  and 
more   interesting    home-life,    but   it   is 
sure  protection  against  a  certain  form  of 
domestic  ennui  that  inevitably  comes  at 
the  stage  when  people  who  are  much  to- 
gether become  '^talked  out,"  and  thread- 
bare stories  and  decrepit  jokes  tend  to 
remind  the  listener  of  phonographs  and 
parrots.     Moreover,  it  is  well  at  the  out- 
set to  cultivate  the  forward  glance,  and 
the  young  woman  fostering  some  form 
of  self-expression  through  the  busy  per- 
iod of  motherhood,has  in  the  later  leisure 
of  middle  life,  given  ardent  thanks.     A 
period  she  might  otherwise  have  con- 
signed to  loneliness  and  empty-handed- 
ness  has  proven  for  her  the  golden  oppor- 
tunity wherein  to  nurse  some  cherished 
talent  into  beauty,  to  her  own  satisfaction 
and  the  ultimate  good  of  all  concerned. 
So  much  for  the  apparent  big  issues  at 
stake,  but  what  of  the  small  undermining 
forces   that   work   an  insidious   havoc? 
In  the  domestic  circle  as  with  the  larger 
business   transactions   it  is   the    trivial 
affair  that  often  proves  the  most  irritat- 
ing..   It  is  the  petulant  tone  creeping 


into  the  voice  that  by  rapid  growth 
evolves  into  the  chronic  whine,  and 
there  have  been  cases  where  a  whine 
proved  a  two-edged  sword  which  severed 
the  marriage  tie.  It  is  the  little  act  of 
disloyalty  in  repeating  to  friends  and 
neighbors  the  petty  faults  and  foibles  of 
the  life-partner  which  sows  the  damaging 
seed  of  discord,  and  it  is  only  the  un- 
checked irritable  complaint  that  with 
magician-like  agility  converts  otherwise 
worthy  people  into  intolerable  naggers 
and  Mrs.  Gummidges  of  both  sexes. 

In  the  April  number  of  Scribner's 
Magazine  appeared  a  short  story  entitled 
"The  Way  She  Took  It,"  so  pulsating 
with  the  sweet  breath  of  home-life  and 
a  common-sense  understanding  existing 
between  husband  and  wife  that  it  made 
most  refreshing  reading.  On  the  eve  of 
her  Silver  Anniversary  a  woman,  for- 
tunately blest  with  the  full  complement 
of  brains,  was  approached  by  a  very 
friendly  but  totally  iminvolved  third 
person  who  felt  it  a  boundcn  duty  to 
enlighten  her  on  her  husband's  misde- 
meanors and  short  comings.  Yet  in  the 
face  of  seemingly  tangible  proof,  the 
wife's  twenty-five  years  of  intimate  com- 
panionship, affording  an  unequalled 
study  and  thorough  comprehension  of 
her  husband's  character,  stood  her  a 
solid  background  of  facts.  And  the 
quiet  majesty  and  wifely  loyalty  of  her 
attitude  are  brought  out  most  pleasingly 
and  with  cameo-like  clearness. 

So  it  seems  that  the  Sunday-go-to- 
meeting  virtues  of  tolerance,  patience, 
and  kindness  are  often  the  uplifting 
wcrk-a-day  mottoes  of  those  charming 
abodes  where  we  find  the  home  atmos- 
sphere  so  restful  and  inspiring,  —  and 
unfailingly  a  sensible,  sunny  woman  is 
the  pivotal  force  calling  into  action  all 
the  surrounding,  worthwhile  interests. 

Thus  we  are  slowly  but  surely  learning 
the  far-reaching  value  of  good  cheer. 
High  on  the  scroll  of  marital  b^titudes 
might  be  illuminated,  "Blessed  are  the 
cheerful  in  heart,  for  they  make  home 
attractive."    A  sense  of  humor   is  the 


TWILIGHT  FRATERNITY 


195 


life  preserver  in  more  than  one  ship  sail- 
ing the  changeful  seas  of  wedlock  and 
it  is  the  saving  vein  of  gold  to  more  than 
one  grub-staker  in  the  rugged  fields  of 
matrimony.  To  make  *'two  grins  grow 
where  formerly  dwelt  a  gfouch,*'  is,  in- 
deed, a  subtle  art  and  one  worthy  our 
stanchest  efforts.  Long  years  ago,  Helen 
Hunt  Jackson  told  us  that  '*Checrful- 
ness  is  a  thing  to  be  more  profoundly 
grateful  for  than  all  that  genius  ever  in- 
spired or  talent  ever  accomplished. 
Next  best  to  natural  spontaneous  cheeri- 
ness  is  deliberate,  intended  and  persistent 
cheeriness,  which  we  can -create,  can  cul- 
tivate and  so  foster  and  cherish  that  after 
a  few  years  the  world  will  never  suspect 
that  it  was  not  an  hereditary  gift.'*  It 
is  helpful  counsel  to-day  and  especially 
applicable  to  the  complicated  task  of 
home-making. 

In  fiuther  pursuit  of  domestic  con- 
tentment, perhaps  the  new  and  even  the 
old  recruits  in  the  connubial  ranks  can 
do  no  better  than  cultivate  that  other 
saving  grace  —  tact.  Insignificant  and 
imassuming  though  it  appears,  it  still 
remains  a  matrimonial  blue  ribbon  win- 
ner and  can  boast  an  unblemished  record 
of  some  of  the  happiest  victories. 

It  seems  pertinent  right  here  to  state 
of  the  three  thousand,  six  hundred  and 
ninety-nine  cases  that  were  heard  in  the 
Chicago  Court  of  Domestic  Relations 
dtuing  the  past  year,  11  per  cent  were 


occasioned  by  ill  temper  and  fully  6  per 
cent  were  ascribed  to  the  interference 
of  the  wife's  parents.  Whether  or  no 
what  the  small  boy  terms  "squealing" 
is  a  feminine  attribute,  there  is  food  for 
reflection  in  the  statement  that  only  1 
per  cent  of  the  trouble  investigated  in 
this  court  was  caused  by  the  molestations 
of  the  husband's  parents. 

Further  infelicity  was  credited  to  the 
following  sources : 

Disease,  13  per  cent; 

Immorality,  14  per  cent; 

Married  too  young,  4  per  cent ; 

Laziness,  3  per  cent; 

Miscellaneous,  6  per  "cent; 

While  under  the  one  tragic  word 
"Liquor"  lay  the  heartache  of  42  per 
cent.  Yet,  glancing  below  the  surface 
evidence,  he  who  runs  may  read  a  sad- 
dening tale  of  homekecping  incompe- 
tency, of  the  serving  of  sodden  food  and 
the  stronghold  of  financial  mismanage- 
ment. 

Let  our  schools  of  household  economics 
multiply!  There  are  no  stronger  advo- 
cates of  such  institutions  than  they  who, 
each  day,  are  legally  sifting  the  chaff  and 
wheat  of  the  divorce  problem.  It  is 
becoming  more  and  more  patent  that 
only  through  such  a  combined  attack  of 
trained  efficiency  may  the  rising  gener- 
ation strike  a  more  effectual  blow  at  the 
hydra-headed  serpent  of  domestic  dis- 
content. 


Twilight  Fraternity 


The  shadows  steal  across  the  grass, 
They  lay  their  fingers  on  the  flowers 
And  straip[htway  into  dreamland  bowers 
The  wildings  of  the  meadow  pass,  — 
Then  lightly  o'er  the  sun-warmed  road, 
They  drape  with  gray  each  green  abode. 

Deep  in  the  ancient  forest  way 
From  leafy  turret,  high  and  strong, 
The  veery  chimes  a  vesper  song 
And  day  succumbs  to  twilight's  sway  — 
For  birds,  and  bees,  and  fallow  field 
Have  felt  the  spell  the  shadows  wield. 


On  drifts  the  silver-stoled  band 
O'er  mountain  height  and  lowly  fen 
To  still  the  fevered  ways  of  men 
With  the  soft  dreams  of  night-fall  land, 
While  granite  cra^s  and  cloud-capped  pass 
Grow  dim  as  daisies  in  the  grass. 

The  flaunting  poppies  in  the  grain 
Are  shadow-bound  as  yon  drab  fir, 
Crudcness  is  veiled  with  gossamer, 
And  harshness  learns  a  softer  strain, 
As  down  the  dark  the  garish  day 
Finds  kinship  with  a  world  of  gray. 


A  Yard  of  Rhubarb 

By  Ruth  Moench  Bell 


ANEW  home  with  an  uncultivated 
back  yard,  a  need  for  money  for 
piano  lessons  for  my  little  girl, 
and  a  jar  of  Rhubarb  marmalade  con- 
spired together  to  give  a  suggestion  for 
improving  the  first,  supplying  the  second 
and  marketing  the  last. 

To  begin  with:  My  Httle  girl  had 
reached  the  age  when  I  had  always 
declared  her  musical  instruction  should 
begin;  but  we  had  just  moved  into  our 
new  home  for  which  we  had  been  saving 
so  long,  and  I  knew  there  was  no  possi- 
bility of  pinching  out  enough  from  the 
family  income  for  this  new  expense. 

I  was  standing  at  the  window  looking 
out  on  the  bare  back-yard  and  alter- 
nately wondering  now  best  to  improve 
the  yard  and  wishing  that  my  little 
girl's  fairy  god-mother  would  give  two 
gentle  -taps  on  the  door  and,  enquiring 
into  the  cause  of  my  perplexities, 
speedily  wave  her  wand  and  transform 
that  back-yard  into  a  verdant  paradise 
of  green,  penny-bearing  plants. 

The  wish  was  scarcely  crystalized, 
when  I  was  nearly  startled  by  two  gentle 
taps,  not  on  the  back  door  as  I  had 
wished,  but  on  the  front.  Our  bell  had 
not  been  put  on  or  the  wish  could  not 
have  been  so  literally  fulfilled. 

I  opened  the  door  and  there  stood  the 
fairy  god-mother.  I  did  not  recognize 
her  at  first.  Indeed,  she  seemed  to  me 
just  like  one  of  the  neighbors  come  in  for 
a  friendly  chat. 

I  persuaded  her  to  have  tea  with  me 
and,  with  her  fairy  gift  of  divination, 
she  must  have  learned  the  cause  of  my 
secret  distress, for  she  offered  me,  in  that 
enigmatical  way  the  fairies  have,  the 
secret  for  my  i)enny-bearing  back-yard 
plants. 

I  had  on  the  table  a  most  delicious 
rhubarb  marmalade,  the  secret  of  which 
a  famous  Southern  cook  had  confided 
to    my    mother.     My    neighbor    friend 


ir 


<(i 


tasted,  then  exclaimed:  '*How  delicious 
this  is.  I  do  wish  one  could  buy  such 
dainties.  They  are  so  good  for  Tea. 
I  dread  so  to  make  them  and  then  I 
never  have  success  even  with  a  tried 
and  tested  recipe." 

Instantly  the  back-yard,  the  piano 
lessons,  the  jar  of  marmalade  began 
capering  about,  figuratively  speaking, 
of  course,  in  my  brain.  I  nearly  flung 
my  anps  about  that  demure  fairy 
creature  who  was  pretending  to  be 
merely    a   friendly    neighbor. 

I  could  scarce  suppress  my  excite- 
ment as  I  bade  her  good-bye. 

''George,  dear,"  I  said  at  supper, 
"How  would  rhubarb  do  in  our  back- 
yard?" 

"Rhubarb?"     He    stared    at    me    in 
masculine  perplexity. 
Yes,  Rhubarb." 

O,  it  would  thrive  well  enough,  but 
I  thought  you  wanted  something  pretty 
there." 

"It  isn't  ugly,  is  it?" 

"O,  no,  not  if  it's  properly  tended. 
It  looks  fresh  and  green,  but  that's  about 
all." 

"That's  all  I  ask,"  I  exclaimed, 
"Sadie's  music  lessons  shall  grow  in  our 
back- yard." 

He  stared  apprehensively  ac  me  as 
who  should  say,  "Am  I  —  or  is  she.'" 

"We  are  neither  one  of  us  straight- 
jacket  subjects,"  I  laughed;  "but  we'll 
plant  rhubarb  in  thac  back  yard.  We'll 
sell  and  ship  in  the  early  part  of  the 
season  and  I'll  make  rhubarb  marma- 
lade when  people  are  tired  ol  the  fresh 
plant.  The  stores  can  sell  all  I  can 
make,  I  know.* 

Hubby  and  Sadie  feli  in  with  the  idea 
and  we  set  to  work.  Hubby  had  the 
back  yard  thoroughly  ploughed  and 
prepared  for  the  planting  and  Sadie 
and  I  did  the  rest. 

We  first  visited  a  truck-gardener  liv- 


196 


MAKING  THE  KITCHEN  ATTRACTIVE 


197 


Ing  on  the  outskirts  of  town  and  got 
plants  and  what  little  information  there 
is  necessary  to  raising  them. 

First  he  showed  us  how  to  select  the 
roots.  Each  piece  of  root  must  have 
one  good  bud  or  eye. 

They  must  be  planted  in  sets  about 
four  feet  apart  each  way. 

The  ground  must  be  cultivated  and 
hoed  and  kept  free  from  weeds.  Never 
let  the  ground  get  hard  and  always 
remember  that  the  richer  the  soil  the 
better  and  bigger  the  growth  and  the* 
more  tender  the  stalks.  Roots  may  be 
set  out  either  in  spring  or  fall. 

This  is  practically  all  one  needs  to 
know,  to  raise  rhubarb. 

The  weeding  and  hoeing  brought  the 
roses  to  our  cheeks  and  gave  us  the  most 
voracious  appetites.  Then  there  was 
the  joy  of  watching  the  plants  grow, 
plucking  the  beautiful  stalks,  marketing 
and  shipping.  (It  is  an  excellent  ship- 
per.) Lastly,  came  the  fun  of  making 
the  jam  and  marmalade  and  selling  them. 

I  put  a  Jittle  advertisement  in  the 
paper  and  found  a  surprisingly  large 
number  of  customers,  some  of  whom 
came  to  the  house  for  the  jam  or  mar- 
malade (I  made  two  kinds),  and  others 
phoned,  and  my  little  girl  became  the 
carrier. 

Her  enthusiasm  and  zeal  were  only 
equaled  by  my  own,  and  I  know  she 
could  never  have  appreciated  her  music 


lessons  so  keenly  as  she  did,  had  it  not 
been  for  the  preliminary  anticipation 
and  cflfort  to  secure  them. 

Of  course,  the  lessons  were  deferred 
a  year  longer  than  I  had  hoped,  because 
there  is  no  profit  till  the  plants  are  a 
year  old;  but  we  knew  the  lessons  were 
assured,  so  there  was  no  despair  over 
the   delay. 

Here  are  the  recipes  for  the  jam  and 
marmalade : 

Rhubarb  Marmalade.  —  I  find  a  mar- 
ket for  this  all  the  year  round.  It 
looks  very  attractive  in  these  new  wide- 
mouthed  glass  jars  and  jelly  glasses.  — 
Two  quarts  of  rhubarb,  broken  rather 
small,  two  pints  of  sugar,  two  oranges, 
juice  of  one  and  grated  rind  of  other, 
one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  if  you  like, 
or  one  cup  of  broken  walnut  meat;  or 
omit  both  raisins  and  nuts.  Cover  the 
pieces  of  rhubarb  with  sugar  and  let 
stand  over  night.  Then  add  the  other 
fruit  and  cook  until  thick. 

Rhubarb  Jam.  —  Simpler  and  cheaper 
and  very  good.  —  Two  pounds  of  sugar, 
and  one  lemon.  Wipe  the  rhubarb  but 
do  not  peel  it.  Cut  into  inch-pieces. 
Cut  the  lemon  into  halves,  remove  the 
seeds,  press  out  the  juice  and  chop  the 
rind  fine.  Put  the  whole  into  a  pre- 
serving kettle  over  the  fire '  and  stir 
frequently.  Let  it  cook  slowly  one 
hour  or  until  thick.  If  the  rhubarb  is 
old,   it  will  need  to  cook  two    hours. 


Making  the  Kitchen  Attractive 

By  Mrs.  A.  G.  M.  Neil 


IT  is  the  most  attractive  room  in 
the  whole  house,'*  exclaimed  the 
visitor  enthusiastically,  as  the 
bride  showed  her  with  well  justified 
pride  her  trim  little  kitchen. 

'*That  is  what  Jack  says,'*  responded 
the  demure  little  bride.  "I  made  up 
my  mind  that  it  should  be,  too.  You 
see,  we  cannot  afford  to  keep  a  maid 
for  awhile  and,  as  I  must  spend  the 
greater  part  of  my  time  in  the  kitchen, 


I  resolved  to  have  it  as  pleasant  and 
comfortable  as  I  could  make  it.**       g| 

"Wise  little  woman,**  commended 
the  friend,  as  pictures  of  other  kitchens 
flitted  through  her  mind  and  she  in- 
voluntarily compared  them  with  the 
dainty  one  before  her. 

It  was  a  small  room,  for  the  house 
itself  was  tiny,  but  the  attractive  wall- 
paper— tiled  effect  in  white  and  a  warm 
shade    of    tan, — gave    it    the    effect    of 


m 


THE  BOSTOM  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


being  larger. 

''As  the  kitchen  faced  north  and  was 
so  small,  Jack  and  I  thought  the  tan 
and  white  effect  would  be  warmer  and 
at  the  same  time  seem  to  give  more 
space.  Besides,  it  corresponds  with 
the  woodwork,  dresser  and  other  fur- 
nishings," explained  the  young  house- 
keeper. 

The  floor  was  covered  with  a  good 
quality  of  linoleum  in  imitation  of  the 
hardwood  floors,  which  also  accorded 
well  with  the  oak  woodwork,  dresser, 
capacious  kitchen  table  and  other  fur- 
niture. 

The  window  shades  were  of  tan  to 
correspond,  and  the  Dutch  curtains 
were  of  white  muslin,  dotted  with  pale 
yellow  poppies.  These  gave  a  very 
sunshiny  effect  to  the  room. 

There  was  a  big,  deep -seated  rocker 
in  the  room,  with  soft,  comfortable 
cushions  of  cretonne  in  yellow  and  white 
design,which  almost  matched  the  window 
curtains. 

A  set  of  hanging  shelves  placed  over 
the  table  contained  the  various  cook 
books,  as  well  as  some  really  good 
literature  and  one  or  two  of  the  current 
magazines. 

**I  often  have  a  minute  or  two,  when 
I  can  sit  down  in  the  rocker  and  read, 
while  I  am  waiting  for  things  to  cook,** 
explained  the  bride,  "and  I  made  up 
my  mind  I  would  have  good  reading 
at  hand  for  just  those  spare  moments. 
You  have  no  idea  how  much  reading  I 
really  get  done  in  that  way,  and  I  work 
so  much  better  afterwards  for  those 
brief  rests  in  the  big  chair.  I  often 
accomplish  odd  bits  of  sewing,  too." 
She  indicated  the  pretty  sweet-grass 
sewing  basket  with  its  yellow  ribbons, 
placed  on  the  top  of  the  book  shelves. 

There  was  a  high  stool  in  one  corner 
of  the  room,  which  the  bride  explained 
she  used  when  sitting  up  to  the  table  to 
prepare  vegetables,  and  to  iron  when 
her  "feet  got  tired."  Two  other  regu- 
lation kitchen  chairs,  a  drcvsscr,  a  roomy 
kitchen  table  with  numerous  capacious 


drawers  underneath,  and  the  range 
were  all  the  other  furnishings  which 
the  small  room  permitted. 

Back  of  the  door  leading  to  closet 
and  cellar  were  rows  and  rows  of  hooks. 
On  these  hung  shining  cooking  utensils — 
convenient  to  hand,  yet  out  of  sight 
when  the  doors  were  closed. 

On  the  walls  were  two  or  three  really 
good  pictures — attractive  landscapes  in 
plain  but  neat  oak  frames  to  correspond 
with  the  color  scheme  of  the  room. 
These  brightened  up  the  room  wonder- 
fully, and  were  restful  and  delightful 
to  look  at. 

"They  were  some  of  the  prettiest 
pictures  we  had,  so  I  put  them  in  here 
where  I  would  see  them  oftenest  and 
where  they  would  rest  and  refresh  me 
while  I  was  doing  my  w^ork." 

Over  the  kitchen  table,  beside  the 
small  book  shelves,  hung  an  artistic 
calendar,  also  with  a  pretty  country 
scene  on  it,  and  with  tne  daies  m  good 
large  print.  There  was  also  an  attrac- 
tive memorandum  pad  with  burnt 
leather  covering,  which  the  bride  said 
saved  her  "lots  of  cudgeling  of  brains" 
about  things  she  needed  at  different 
times  or  duties  that  required  to  be 
done. 

"It  looks  almost  too  pretty  for  use." 
"Indeed,  it  is  not,"  answered  the  bride, 
quickly.  "It  is  all  for  use  and  for  com- 
fort. Everything  in  the  room  is  wash- 
able, and  I  assure  you  is  washed  often. 
Even  the  wall  paper  is  the  washable 
kind.  Everything  is  to  make  my  work 
easy  and  pleasant,  and  to  make  my  sur-: 
roundings  as  comfortable  and  attractive 
as  I  can  have  them  in  the  room  where  I 
am  obliged  to  spend  so  much  of  my 
time." 

"Do  you  wonder  that  I  love  my  little 
kitchen?"  she  asked,  with  pride,  "that  I 
enjoy  my  work  here,  and  never  feel  like 
hurrying  through  it  and  off  to  some 
other  room  where  I  can  rest  and  enjoy 
myself?" 

"Indeed  I  don't,"  responded  the 
friend,    heartily. 


An  Elxperiment  in  Exonomics 

By  Susie  Bouchelle  Wight 


IT  has  been  most  truly  said  that  the 
luxuries  of  one  generation  arc  the 
necessities  of  the  next,  but  it  is 
only  when  their  necessity  is  acceded  to, 
that  it  exists.  This  fact  is  one  we  are 
prone  to  overlook  in  these  days  when 
everybody  is  discussing  the  high  cost  of 
living.  There  are  a  thousand  demands 
for  things  that  we  have  become  accus- 
tomed to  consider  essential  to  our  com- 
fort and  well-being,  which  under  a  rigid 
common-sense  examination  would  have 
to  be  classed  either  as  luxuries,  or  else 
as  concessions  to  the  extravagant  spirit 
of  the  times. 

I  know  a  family  who  have  recently 
been  obliged  to  reduce  their  scale  of 
living,  and  their  methods  are  interesting 
and  suggestive.  For  some  years  past, 
the  father  has  been  aware  that  they 
were  spending  more  than  they  should, 
but  his  business  belonged  to  him  alone, 
and  was  one  in  which  occasional  deals 
brought  in  large  profits,  so  in  a  mistaken 
spirit  of  tenderness  for  his  loved  ones 
he  had  gone  on  bearing  the  strain  with 
an  occasional  feeble  protest,  depending 
upon  fortuitous  circumstances  to  make 
up  the  deficit.  A  time  came,  however, 
when  a  certain  long-talked  of  business 
investment  had  to  be  foregone  for  lack 
of  an  inconsiderable  sum  of  ready  money. 

"Why,"  said  the  oldest  son,  "Ispend 
that  much  every  year  on  my  roadster 
alone — surelv  we  can  borrow  that?" 

"I  will  not  borrow,  while  we  live  as 
we  do,"  returned  the  father  gravely. 
"We  are  living  clear  up  to  our  income, 
and  no  margin  is  left  for  just  such 
opportunitie  >  as  might  enable  us,  by 
and  by,  to  enjoy  the  things  \^e  have  now, 
and  have  no  right  to." 

I  think,  perhaps,  it  was  the  very  love 
and  gentleness,  which  was  all  these 
children  could  remember  from  their 
father,  that  made  them  enter  so  ear- 
nestly into  the  thorough  discussion  that 


followed.  He  never  had  cried  *'Wolf," 
before,  so  now  they  came  to  the  rescue, 
and  the  situation  was  handled,  as  all 
.  such  situation  should  be,  with  common 
consent,  after  common  consideration. 

As  is  usual  in  any  system  of  retrench- 
ment, the  table  was  the  first  thing  to 
come  under  the  searchlight.  It  had 
been  the  family  habit  to  have  anything 
they  wanted  to  eat,  and  of  course  they 
wanted  the  very  best  that  could  be  had. 
The  butcher's  bill  was  eliminated  at  one 
fell  swoop,  and  that  was  the  largest  item 
of  the  commissariat.  They  retained  a 
good  roast  for  Sunday  dinner,  and  then 
depended  upon  butter  and  cheese  and 
bacon  for  fats.  A  little  study  of  break- 
fast fruits  resulted  in  the  choice  of 
apples  at  half  the  cost  of  bananas  and 
grapefruit,  and  in  the  substitution  of 
stewed  fruits,  now  and  then,  for  fresh 
ones.  It  was  found  possible  to  make 
quite  a  saving  in  the  choice  of  their 
vegetables.  Sugar,  which  had  gone  in 
enormous  quantities  for  fudge  and  kin- 
dred purposes,  came  to  be  looked  tipon 
more  as  it  had  in  the  days  of  the  parents' 
childhood,  and  desserts,  of  which  this 
family  were  especially  fond,  were  made 
the  subject  of  a  close  and  profitable 
investigation. 

When  it  came  to  clothes,  these  people 
thought,  at  first,  that  no  difference 
could  be  made,  until  the  daughter  of 
the  house  quoted,  *'It  isn't  doing  with- 
out things  that  hurts — it  is  keeping  up 
the  bluff." 

"I  don't  know  whether  the  bluff  is 
worth  keeping  up,"  said  the  mother, 
and  then,  for  the  experiment's  sake,  they 
entered  into  an  agreement  to  do  away 
with  everything  included  in  that  idea 
of  "keeping  up  the  bluff,"  those  ex- 
penditures made  partly  from  the  love 
of  ease  and  comfort,  and  with  a  weather 
eye  to  the  neighbors'  opinions.  It  is  a 
queer   thing,   this   concession   to   what 


199 


200 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


people  say.  Seeing  certain  economies, 
the  worst  remark  that  is  likelv  to  be 
made  is  that  the  Smiths  have  beeu 
living  too  extravagantly,  and  are  having 
to  mend  their  ways.  If  this  is  true,  as 
very  probably  it  is,  why  resent  it?  If 
they  go  still  farther  and  observe,  "It  is 
what  I  knew  they  would  come  to,"  why 
resent  that,  or  even  worse  insinuation? 
If  our  neighbors  are  wiser  than  we,  so 
much  to  their  credit;  and  if  they  cast 
reflections  upon  us — well,  a  little  analysis 
of  that  word  "reflection**  will  convince 
us  that  the  unkind  word  and  the  thought 
behind  it  are  greater  evils  than  the 
shadow  they  may  cast  upon  us.  Our 
one  affair  is  literally  to  attend  to  our 
own  business,  and  what  people  may 
say  depends  for  its  importance  exactly 
upon  the  importance  we  give  it  in  our 
own  minds.  It  looms  very  large  with 
us,  if  we  allow  it  to — to  the  world  out- 
side, it  is  but  a  matter  of  casual  remark. 

Well,  this  elimination  of  "the  bjuff" 
proved  the  keynote  of  the  entire  matter, 
because  it  was  seen  that  so  veiy  many 
of  the  luxuries  depended  for  their 
largest  value  upon  the  fact  that  others 
indulged  in  them.  Entertainments  were 
reduced  to  a  minimum ;  recreations  were 
brought  to  a  simpler  plane;  articles  of 
dress  were  not  discarded  simply  because 
they  had  become  pass6,  but  were  re- 
modeled and  altered  at  home,  and  one 
radical  member  of  that  family  wore 
shirtwaists  and  plan  skirts  on  all 
occasions,  with  such  an  air  that  she 
actually  gave  a  distinction  to  her  cos- 
tume. 

The  telephone!  Do  we  really  need  it, 
or  is  it  here  for  purely  social  reasons? 
The  small  members  indicated  their 
willingness  to  run  errands,  and  it  was 
thought  that,  sometimes,  purchases 
made  over  the  phone,  because  it  was 
an  easy  way,  would  not  be  made  at  all, 
if    they    involved    a    trip    down    town. 


True,  the  phone  was  constantly  in  use 
for  Marion,  but  she  said  that  if  her 
young  friends  could  not  take  the  trouble 
to  come,  or  send  a  messenger  when  they 
wished  to  communicate  with  her,  she 
didn't  feel  like  keeping  a  telephone  for 
their  convenience,  only,  she  added 
falteringly,  "It  always  sounds  so  kind 
of  horrid  when  Central  says  'That  phone 
has  been  dicontinued.'" 

"Bluff*"  commented  the  small  boy, 
so  after  that  month  there  was  no  longer 
the  peremptory  tinkle  of  the  phone  in 
that  house.  The  question  of  electric 
lights  met  a  similar  disposal. 

In  a  nutshell,  it  all  meant  the  fore- 
going of  modem  conveniences  for  that 
family,  until  such  time  as  they  could  be 
really  afforded,  and  it  was  a  brave 
example  that  many  in  these  days  need 
to  follow.  Not  one  item  of  this  whole- 
sale renunciation  was  large — some  sav- 
ings were  so  small  as  almost  to  seem 
trifling,  but  the  sum  total  largely  justi- 
fied the  experiment.  The  heavy  burden 
was  lifted  from  the  man  of  the  house, 
and  because  of  it  he  became  cheerful 
with  his  children  in  a  way  they  had 
almost  forgotten.  A  certain  moral  fibre, 
which  is  being  developed  in  the  younger 
members  of  the  family,  is  the  attempt 
at  a  mutual  helpfulness,  which  has  re- 
placed their  former  irresponsibility,  and 
the  healthy  zest  that  comes  with 
economic  independence  seems  better 
worth  while  than  the  easy  pleasure 
purchased  at  the  price  of  their  father's 
perplexity.  The  outcome  is  sure  to  be 
good.  There  will  be  the  requisite  mar- 
gin for  business  expansion,  which  means 
the  interest  of  the  family  as  a  group, 
and  the  individuals  working  together 
for  a  common  cause  will  have  acquired 
pleasantly  and  happily  those  habits  of 
thrift  that,  otherwise,  must  have  been 
won — if  won  at  all,  through  the  stem 
discipline  of  defeat  and  loss. 


The  Girl  Who  Cooked 

By  Mary  Carolyn  Davies 


IT  is  not  easy  to  bake  a  cake,  and 
stir  salad,  and  drain  the  potatoes, 
when  your  brain  is  just  swirling 
with  plots  and  settings  and  climaxes, 
and  when  the  most  fascinating  little 
ideas  and  fancies  keep  dancing  into 
your  mind  and  fairly  crying  out  to  be 
written  up  into  stories.  Especially  if 
the  writing  of  them  means,  possibly, 
college  in  the  fall ;  and  not  writing  them 
means,  certainly,  no  college. 

And,  besides,  Nan  hated  cooking, 
anyway.  At  least,  she  had  hated  it 
before.  It  was  Nan's  proud  boast  that 
she  never  in  her  Ufe  did  anything  she 
didn't  want  to.  Her  method,  you  see, 
was  that  as  soon  as  she  found  she  had 
to  do  anything,  she  immediately  set 
about  wanting  to. 

It  wasn't  easy  for  Nan  to  be  spending 
her  summer  over  the  cook-stove  and 
the  ironing  board.  That  summer — 
why  the  very  thought  of  it  had  borne 
her  triumphantly  through  the  rough- 
nesses of  her  year  as  backwoods  ''school- 
marm."  "Never  mind,"  she  would  say 
gaily,  as  she  tossed  her  head  to  keep 
back  the  tears,  "Just  wait  till  summer. 
Then,  I'll  be  doing  my  own,  own  work. 
Oh,  the  stories  that  I  can  write — next 
summer." 

Three  of  "the  girls"  from  their  near-by 
schools,  had  ridden  over  to  say  Goodbye, 
as  Nan  left,  radiant,  the  day  school 
closed. 

"Be  sure  to  tell  us  all  about  your 
writing,  Nan,"  they  called  out. 

"Don't  forget  to  let  us  know  every 
check  you  get." 

"Good  luck,  Nan.  College  next  fall." 
were  the  last  words  she  heard  as  the 
train  pulled  out. 

College  next  fall?  Yes,  if  hard  work 
could  bring  it.  With  the  study  she 
meant  to  put  in  at  the  library,  and  the 
stories  she  had  planned  to  do,  she  knew 
she   could    "make"    college.     It    would 


mean  giving  up  everything ;  no  vacation 
fun  for  her,  but  a  steady  grind  at  her 
writing.  But  for  college.  Nan  could 
sacrifice  anything. 

But  when  she  got  home,  her  plans 
went  very  badly  "a-gley,"  indeed.  No 
sooner  had  she  flown  into  the  house, 
dashed  wildly  at  her  mother,  and  her 
brothers  and  sisters  of  varying  ages  and 
freckle-faced  dirtiness,  in  the  midst  of 
the  kisses  and  fun,  and  home-again 
gladness  of  it  all,  than  they  began  telling 
her  how  needed  she  was. 

It  was  good,  good  to  be  one  of  the 
home  band  again — not  to  be  "the  school- 
marm,"  and  a  pattern  for  the  com- 
munity any  more,  but  to  be  just  Nan, 
to  find  her  old  place  waiting  for  her 
just  the  same. 

She  was  longing  for  a  chance  to  tell 
her  mother  all  her  summer  plans, — how 
she  would  have  her  regular  hours  foi 
work,  writing  out  under  the  cherry  trees 
in  the  little  nook  where  she  used  to 
study  her  Virgil, — how  she  would  read, 
and  study  up  on  short-story  structure 
and  methods,  and  all  the  hundred  and 
one  plans  she  was  so  eager  to  begin.  In 
her  enthusiasm,  she  could  scarcely  follow 
the  conversation. 

Conversation  at  the  Little  Brown 
House  was  of  a  three-ring  circus  variety 
invented  by  Nan  and  the  others,  destined 
to  get  the  most  said  in  the  least  time. 
Everyone  talked  at  once,  and  yoti 
listened  to  whichever  interested  you 
most.  Everybody  cheerfully  inter- 
rupted everyone,  and  a  family  talk  was 
the  joUiest,  happiest  -  hearted  affair 
imaginable. 

"Nan,"  her  mother  was  saying,  "I'm 
so  glad  you're  back,  and  can  take  hold 
of  things.  I've  let  the  housecleaning 
go,  and  I'm  behind  in  the  sewing,  and—" 

"O  Nan,"  Ted  broke  in,  "I  want  you 
to  coach  me  in  Algebra  this  summer. 
You  know  I  flunked." 


^Oi 


202 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


''And  now  you  can  make  my  summer 
dresses  for  me,  Nan,"  broke  in  "Lolli- 
pops,*' and  teach  me  to  embroider." 

''We've  just  been  waiting  for  you  to 
get  here.  Nan,"  her  mother  repeated, 
relief  in  her  tone.  "I  had  to  keep  up, 
some  way,  till  you  came." 

No  one  waited  for  Nan  to  make  any 
reply,  and  no  one  noticed  the  white 
look  of  dismay  in  her  face.  It  was  gone 
on  the  instant,  and  Nan  was  laughing 
over  Ted's  telling  of  one  of  the  twins' 
pranks. 

In  some  wireless  fashion  the  news 
had  got  round  the  neighborhood  that 
Nan  was  home.  For  anyone  to  say 
"Nan,"  was  as  much  as  sajring,  "Fire, 
Fire."  Everyone  dropped  whatever  was 
to  be  done,  and  made  a  grand  rush  for 
the  Little  Brown  House. 

Nan  welcomed  them  all,  from  fat, 
homely  Mother  Bagley,  to  the  Trum- 
bull babies.  The  doorbell  and  the 
telephone  kept  up  a  merry  carol,  and 
"Hello   Nan"  echoed  everywhere. 

In  all  the  merry  chaos  of  talk  and 
laughter,  it  seemed  to  Nan  as  if  every- 
body said  something  about  how  nice 
it  was  that  she  had  got  home,  and  could 
"take  hold  of  things,"  and  give  her 
mother    a    rest. 

"I  wish  I  had  a  daughter  Uke  that. 
You're  a  lucky  woman,  Kate,"  her 
mother's  chum  told  her,  and  Nan, 
overhearing,   flushed. 

"But  I  can  help  more  by  working  at 
my  own  work,"  she  thought  passionately; 
Anyone  can  sweep  floors  and  cook." 

It  was  not  until  the  supper  dishes 
were  out  of  the  way  that  Nan  could 
snatch  a  moment  to  think  out  this 
problem  that  had  come  to  her. 

Then  she  ran  lightly  out  to  her  own, 
little  comer  of  the  world — the  little 
nook  under  the  old  cherry  tree,  where 
she  had  fought  out  all  her  girlish  battles. 

There,  all  alone  in  the  sunset,  she 
faced  her  problem  squarely,  and  had 
all  the  bitterness  of  her  own  little 
Gethsemane. 

"I   can't   give  it  up,"   she   moaned, 


HTj.1. 


'It's  my  own,  own  work.  And  it 
means — college.  I  can't  waste  my 
splendid  summer  just  doing  other 
people's  comers."  She  lifted  her  head 
to  the  sunset  hills.  "A  girl  must  live 
her  own  life,  and  choose  her  own  life- 
work."  Impulsively  she  threw  her  arms 
around  the  old  tree,  and  laid  her  face 
against  it. 

"O  what  ought  I  to  do?"  she  sobbed. 

But  all  the  while,  she  knew  what  she 
would  do. 

She  had  a  little  motto  of  her  own  that 
had  steadied  her  hand  sometimes,  and 
she  quoted  it  now,  ruefully,  through  her 
sobs,  "When  in  doubt,  do  the  hardest 
thing." 

"Well,"  she  straightened  her  slim 
figure,  and  stood  out  proudly,  "here 
goes." 

It  wasn't  a  very  poetical  surrender 
to  duty,  but  she  meant  it.  She  marched 
steadily  toward  the  house,  stopping  at 
the  little  spring  to  splash  cold  water 
into  her  eyes,  and  luring  all  the  twinkle 
back. 

She  remembered  how  scornfully  one 
of  the  girls  at  High  used  to  say,  "Any- 
body can  give  in,  but  it  takes  a  hero  to 
give  in  as  if  he  liked  to  do  it." 

She  flashed  up  to  the  porch,  and  was 
immediately  taken  possession  of  by 
every  occupant  of  it.  "Wait  until  the 
newness  wears  off,"  she  laughed,  "then 
I  won't  be  so  popular." 

"Where  have  you  been,  daughter?" 
her  mother  smiled  up  at  her  affec- 
tionately. 

"Having  a  little  think-fest  all  by 
myself,  muz,"  Nan  answered,  cheerily. 
"Will  you  tell  me  just  what  you  have 
for  breakfast,  and  how  you  cook  it? 
You  know  I  don't  know  a  thing  about 
cooking— but  I'm  going  to." 

So  that  was  how  Nan  came  to  be 
cooking  dinner  on  this  busy  Saturday, 
while  the  tiny  birds,  bursting  their 
throats  with  joy,  and  the  lure  of  sum- 
mer, called  to  her  in  vain. 

She  was  tired,  tired,  body  and  soul. 
She   was   always   tired   nowadays,   just 


THE  GIRL  WHO   COOKED 


203 


as  tired  in  the  morning  as  when  she 
tumbled  into  bed  at  night.  But  no 
one  knew. 

She  and  the  alarm  clock  had  a  little 
dispute  every  morning.  The  alarm 
clock  always  won.  She  had  put  her 
hand  to  the — stove-lifter,  and  she  would 
not  turn  back. 

This  was  the  tiredest  day  of  all.  The 
kitchen  was  littered  up  with  everybody, 
and  Nan  was  trying  to  thread  her  way 
through  the  laughing,  quarreling  chaos, 
to  the  culmination  of  dinner. 

"Say,  Nan,*'  suddenly  demanded  Ken- 
neth, sitting  up  straight,  and  looking 
over  at  her,  "why  don't  you  ever  write 
any  stories  any  more?" 

Nan  tossed  back  her  head,  and 
laughed,  holding  up  the  dripping  dough- 
nut on  the  fork,  and  turning  her  fire- 
flushed  face  upon  him. 

"Stories!"  she  cried.  "Oh— those 
beans  are  burning!"  When  she  had 
rescued  the  beans,  and  put  in  a  new 
panful  of  sizzling  doughnuts,  she  turned 
again,  and  waved  her  arm  tragically 
over  the  scene. 

"This  is  why,"  she  announced,  dra- 
matically. "It's  better  to  live  stories 
than  to  write  them,  Ke-Ke."  she  quoted 
blithely. 

"Yes,"  agreed  "Ke-Ke,"  "but,  gee! 
sis,  your  stories  are  corkers." 

"Thank  you,  gentle  reader,"  she 
curtseyed,  and,  Hke  Thackeray's  heroine, 
went  on  cutting  bread  and  butter. 

Nan  had  tried,  for  a  while,  to  serve 
two  masters.  She  had  hoped  to  write 
in  the  corners  of  the  day,  but  she  soon 
found  that  her  days  were  largely  circular, 
and  that  comers  were  a  non-existing 
quantity. 

Also,  she  discovered  that  stories  and 
cooking  dp  not  mix.  If  she  ran  to  her 
notebook  to  jot  down  one  of  those 
faintly  fugitive  ideas,  everything  in 
sight  would  bum  and  boil  over  and 
mutiny.  And  when  she  would  cuddle 
up  in  the  lap  of  Fancy  all  by  herself  for 
a  moment,  it  was  surprisingly  difficult 
to  imagine  what  the  girl  did  next,  or 


to  describe  even  a  sunset.  Then,  just 
when  her  pencil  would  get  in  tune  with 
things,  and  she  would  feel  the  glow  of  a 
well-turned  sentence,  "Nan,"  someone 
would  call,  and  the  little,  maddeningly 
intrusive  tasks  would  begin  all  over 
again. 

Finally,  she  gave  in  to  the  great  god, 
Work,  and  locked  up  her  pathetic  little 
writing  desk.  She  shut  her  eyes,  and, 
standing  under  the  old  cherry  tree, 
threw  the  key  just  as  far  as  she  could. 
Then  she  put  all  her  heart  into  feeding 
the  family,  and  sewing  buttons  on  them, 
and  dimpling  out  at  the  world  in  general. 

And  nobody  even  guessed  about  the 
slender  little  key  she  had  thrown  away, 
and  the  locked-up  place  in  her  heart. 

When  any  of  them  spoke  of  her 
writing,  she  turned  them  off  gaily,  as 
she  had  Kenneth,  today.  His  reminder 
had  opened  the  old  sore  for  a  moment, 
but  before  dinner  was  over,  she  was  her 
own   cheery   self  again. 

A  little  later,  the  twins  plunged  in 
with  the  mail,  to  where  Nan,  arms  in 
the  steaming  dish-water,  was  singing 
away. 

"There's  a  letter  for  you,"  came  their 
two-fold  shout,  "Open  it  quick,  Nan!" 

Nan's  letters  were  an  advent  to  the 
whole  household,  as  much  to  be  shared 
as  a  box  of  candy. 

Laughing,  she  wiped  her  hands  on 
her  apron,  and,  pulling  out  a  hair-pin, 
ran  it  under  the  flap.  Out  of  the 
envelope  dropped  a  clipping. 

"The  letter's  from  Pauline,  the  school- 
ma'am  in  the  next  district,"  she  an- 
nounced happily,  and,  perching  on  the 
table,  read  out  the  droll,  jolly  epistle. 

In  the  middle  of  a  sentence  she  stopped, 
"M — ^m,"  she  skipped,  and  then  started 
reading  again,  halfway  down  the  next 
page. 

Nobody  noticed  the  omission  except 
her  mother.  Mothers  always  notice 
things. 

Nan's  mother  had  confided  to  her 
best  friend,  the  day  before,  "You  never 
know    your   children    are   growing    up. 


204 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Nell,  till  they  first  stop  showing  you 
their  letters.  Then  you  suddenly  realize 
that  they're  not  your  little  boys  and 
girls  any  longer,  but  young  folks  with 
an  individual  life  of  their  own.  Nan 
always  tossed  her  letters  over  to  me, 
as  a  matter  of  course,  before  she  read 
them  or  after,  it  made  no  difference. 
But  now —  It's  foolish  of  me  to  mind, 
of  course."  She  had  laughed  at  herself, 
but  she  did  mind,  all  the  same. 

Nan  had  not  dared  show  her  mother 
the  girls'  letters  this  summer.  They 
were  too  dangerously  besprinkled  with 
gay  little  references  and  questions  about 
Nan's  writings  and  checks — and  Nan 
would  not,  for  worlds,  have  had  her 
mother  know  what  she  was  giving  up. 

That  night  in  her  room  Nan  read 
again  the  page  she  had  skipped. 

'*I  suppose  you  are  too  busy  with 
stories,  and  big  things  to  be  interested 
in  it,"  Pauline  said,  ''but  I'm  enclosing 
a  clipping  I  noticed  in  the  Homemaker's 
Magazine.  You  said  you  were  doing 
some  cooking,  didn't  you?"  Then  she 
went  on  to  ask  about  Nan's  stories  and 
checks. 

Nan  picked  up  the  clipping.  "A 
Contest!  First  prize,  three  hundred 
dollars,"  she  gasped.  "And  for  a  cook- 
ing article,"  she  read  on  farther,  "telling 
the  experiences  of  an  amateur,  and  what 
she  learned.  Well,  I  certainly  ought 
to  be  able  to  give  a  heart-felt  experience 
talk."  She  laughed  at  a  sudden  vision 
of  her  soda-less  biscuits,  siu'plus-salted 
rice,  and  a  few  other  of  her  strikingly 
original   versions   of   culinary   prowess. 

"And  that's  something  I  could  scribble 
at  in  odd  minutes — no,  half -minutes," 
she  corrected.  "Dare  I?  Of  course, 
I'd  never  win  any  of  the  prizes,  even  the 
least,  last,  tiny  one.  But — I've  half  a 
mind  to  try.  Shall  I?"  She  remem- 
bered the  man,  who,  with  a  cake  in  his 
hand,  stood  so  long  before  the  oven 
door  saying,  "Shall  I,  or  shan't  I?  Is 
it  time,  or  isn't  it?  She  loves  me,  she 
loves  me  not,"  that  the  oven  got  cold; 
and  she  determined  to  decide  at  once. 


She  shook  a  quarter  out  of  her  bank, 
and  balanced  it  tentatively  in  her  fingers. 
Nan  believed  in  tossing  up.  "Of  course, 
I  don't  always  do  what  the  coin  says," 
she  explained  ingenuously,  "but  I  always 
find  out,  when  it  comes  up  heads, 
whether  I  wanted  it  tails  or  not." 

She  put  her  head  on  one  side  judi- 
ciously. "Heads  I  write  it,  tails  I 
don't." 

The  coin  flashed  in  the  air,  and  came 
down — tails.  "Oh,  but,  I  wanU  to," 
she  cried  out,  sudden  disappointment 
in  her  tones. 

Then,  "Two  out  of  three,"  she 
dimpled,  and  tossed  again.  Heads  it 
was  and  she  gravely  accepted  the 
decision. 

It  wasn't  until  late  the  next  day  that 
she  began  the  important  article.  Then 
it  was  launched  by  a  paragraph  on  a 
piece  of  wrapping  paper,  hastily  jotted 
down,  in  the  kitchen.  Every  day, 
between  courses,  she  would  add  a  few 
sentences,  and  all  the  fun  and  blunders 
went  into  it,  as  they  occurred. 

Nan  kept  her  little  secret  to  herself; 
if  it  came  to  nothing,  she  didn't  want 
anyone  to  be  disappointed.  She  wasn't 
at  all  sure  of  finishing.  Besides,  she 
shrank  in  a  perfect  agony  from  discussing 
her  writing  or  hearing  anyone  speak  of 
it.  They  had  always  laughed  at  Nan 
for  her  sensitiveness  about  her  "scrib- 
blings."  She  co\dd  not  stand  to  hear  a 
line  of  hers  read  aloud,  and  to  reduce 
her  to  an  agony  of  embarrassment,  one 
had  only  to  quote  a  phrase. 

Her  article  was  nearly  finished  now. 
She  did  not  want  to  send  it  without 
telling  her  mother  about  it.  For  several 
days  she  fenced  for  openings,  she  tried 
to  introduce  it  naturally,  but  each  time 
cowardice  overcame  her.  At  last,  she 
resolved  grimly  to  shut  her  eyes  and 
fall  in,  the  way  she  had  learned  to  dive. 

She  marched  boldly  into  her  mother's 
room,  feeling  the  pulse  in  her  throat 
throbbing  so  wildly  that  she  could 
hardly  breathe,  y 

"Mother,"  she  began,  "I  have  some- 


THE  GIRL  WHO  COOKED 


205 


thing  I  want  to  tell  you." 

"Yes,  dear,"  her  mother  looked  up 
encouragingly,  from  the  rompers  she 
was  making. 

'*It's," — Nan's  courage  was  oozing — 
**I — ^you  see — I  wanted  to  tell  you  before 
I  did  it — I  wanted  you  to  know  first — " 
Nan  stopped,  overcome  by  confusion. 

The  look  of  puzzlement  on  her  mother's 
face  suddenly  changed.  '*Why,  Nan," 
she  cried,  horrified,  ''Surely  it's  not — 
You're  not  thinking  of  getting  married, 
are  you?" 

*'0h,  no,  muz!  No,  no,"  protested 
Nan,  in  terror.  "It's  only,  don't  you 
see — I've  been  trying  to  write  a  cooking 
thing,  for  a  prize."  And  she  told  her 
all  about  the  precious  contest. 

"Well,  I  am*  relieved,"  her  mother 
smiled.  "But,  Nan,  next  time  you 
write  a  story,  don't  scare  me  into  ex- 
pecting an  elopement,  or  a  confession 
of  crime.     May  I  see  it?" 

The  ordeal  over,  Nan's  story  sailed 
on  to  a  magnificent  close.  It  was 
cleverly  done.  And  yet,  when  she 
rounded  out  the  last  sentence,  she  was 
not  satisfied.  There  was  so  much  more 
to  tell.  She  hadn't  dreamed  of  the 
romantic  possibilities  in  cooking.  , 

"Now,  tomorrow,"  she  thought,  "I 
will  copy  it,  and  get  it  all  ready  to  send." 

But  tomorrow  brought  a  dismaying 
quantity  of  extra  work,  and  the  next 
day  and  the  next  sped  by  without  a 
minute  free  from  house  cares.  It  was 
getting  dangerously  near  the  closing 
day  of  the  contest. 

Saturday,  they  were  going  to  have  a 
picnic,  "a  regular  cracker  jack  of  a  pic- 
nic," Kenneth  characterized  it,  and  it 
had  the  usual  sandwich-cake-salad-pack- 
ing prelude  the  evening  before. 

As  Nan  had  her  tired  hand  on  the 
electric  switch,  going  to  bed  that  night, 
her  calendar  glared  steadily  and  accus- 
ingly at  her.  She  saw  the  date,  and 
gasped. 

Tomorrow  was  the  last  chance  for  the 

contest. 

Was  it  worth  the  sacrifice,  she  asked 


herself.  She  had  no  chance  of  winning 
a  prize  anyway.  "Aw,  don't  be  a 
piker,"  she  seemed  to  hear  Kenneth's 
boyish  voice.     That  decided  her. 

"I'll  stick  it  out,"  she  said.  "I'll 
cross  the  tape,  now  that  I've  come  this 
far,  even  if  I  am  the  last  one  in  the  race." 

Next  morning  she  laughed  off  the 
protests,  and  packed  off  all  the  others 
to  the  picnic,  then  drew  a  long  breath 
of  relief.  Now  she  could  settle  down 
to  work. 

Laden  with  her  fountain  pen,  paper, 
and  three  sofa  cushions,  she  fared  forth 
right  joyously  to  her  own  comer  tmder 
the  cherry  trees,  stood  there  a  moment, 
arms  stretched  up  ixi  sheer  abandonment 
of  joy  to  the  happy  sky,  then  threw 
herself  down  on  the  gra^s  to  write.  The 
birds  seemed  to  welcome  her  back  and 
the  still  morning  was  a  balm  to  her 
cumbered- with-much-cooking  soul. 

Her  pen  flew  over  the  shining  pages, 
and  when  the  last  line  was  copied,  and 
the  finished  article  folded  down  and 
slipped  into  the  big  overcoat  of  an  en- 
velope, with  the  return  envelope  pinkly 
stamped  and  tucked  away,  Nan  breathed 
a  big,  big  sigh  of  relief. 

"There,  that's  done,"  she  whispered, 
"but  I  won't  feel  real,  real  safe  till  I've 
fed  it  to  that  hungry  green  monster 
across  the  street,"  and  in  another 
moment  she  heard  the  satisfying  thud, 
as  it  dropped  into  the  mail-box. 

"Now,  I'm  never,  never,  going  to 
think  of  it  again,"  she  disciplined  herself, 
for  I'm  not  going  to  feel  disappointed. 
I'd  better  bake  up  some  pies  for  to- 
morrpw,  and  get  some  hominy  on  to 
cook." 

So,  ushered  in  by  Cream  of  Wheat 
and  griddle  cakes,  day  after  day  went  by. 

Nan  had  forgotten  her  manuscript — 
in  the  daytime.  For  the  first  week  or 
so,  sometimes  at  night,  she  couldn't 
help  wondering  if — But  she  always  shut 
her  eyes  tight  and  stopped  short  at  that 
point. 

Vacation  was  nearly  over.     Nan  had 

(CooliDued  on  page  236) 


206 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


THE 

BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE 

OF 
Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics 

Subscription  $1.00  per  Year  Single  Copies,  10c 
Foreign  Postage  :  To  Canada,  20c  per  Year 
To  OTHER  Foreign  Countries,  40c  per  Year 

TO  SUBSCRIBERS 

The  date  stamped  on  the  wrapper  is  the  date 
on  which  your  subscription  expires;  it  is,  also,  an 
acknowledgment  that  a  subscription,  or  a  renewal 
of  the  same,  has  been  received. 

Please  renew  on  receipt  of  the  colored  blank 
enclosed  for  this  purpose. 

In  sending  notice  to  renew  a  subscription  or 
change  of  address,  please  give  the  old  address 
as  well  as  the  new. 

In  referring  to  an  original  entry,  we  must  know 
the  name  as  it  was  formerly  given,  together  with 
the  Post-office,  County,  State,  Post-office  Box, 
or  Street  Number. 

Staiemtni  if  twnership  and  matutgtmtnt  as  rgquirtd  by 
tkt  Act  ff  Congrtis  of  August  24, 1912, 

Editor:  Janet  M.  Hill. 
Business  Managers:  R.  B.  Hill,  B.  M.  Hill. 

Owners : 

B.  M.  Hill,  Janet  M.  Hill,  R.  B;  Hill. 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

published  ten  times  a  year  by 

The  Boston  Cooking- School  Magazine  Co., 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

BlfTBKBD  AT  BoSTOW  POST-OFFICB  AS  SeCOMD-CLAM  MaTTKK 


When  Come  the  Evil  Days 

We  who  look  backward,  who  the  long  way  know 
Would  we  our  bitter  wisdom  dare  bestow 

On  those  whose  eyes  look  forward,  self-de- 
ceived, 

Blest  in  believing  all  we  once  believe  J?  — 
Would  we  have  springtime  fear  the  winter  snow? 

We  who  have  seen  the  way  the  roses  go, 

Were  happy  while  we  watched  the  brief  buds 

grow: 
Let  us  be  silent,  we  the  oft  bereaved. 

We  who  look  backward ! 

Barren  the  fields  they  seek  with  hope  aglow  — 
There  oft  we  sowed  the  seed  that  did  not  grow. 
How  oft  we  wept  the  harvest  slender-sheaved, 
Now   we   weigh   dreams   against    the   things 
achieved. 
Oh  we  could  speak!     But  dare  we  rob  them  so  — 
We  who  look  backward? 

Stokely  S.  Fisher. 


INTEREST  IN  WORK 

THAT  interest  in  one's  work  or 
calling  is  essential  to  successful 
achievement  is  a  trite  and  common  say- 
ing; and,  yet,  the  fact  must  be  kept  con- 
stantly before  us.  Children,  we  say, 
must  be  interested  in  their  studies  and 
books  or  they  fail  in  approved  attain- 
ments. Right  here  is  to  be  seen  the 
difference  between  the  old  and  the  new 
education.  To-day  the  natural  activi- 
ties of  the  child  are  given  employment. 
He  is  kept  busy  in  doing  what  he  wants 
and  Ukes  to  do.  He  is  lead  and  directed 
rather  than  forced  and  driven.  Culti- 
vation and  training  are  encouraged  along 
lines  of  natural  tastes  and  tendencies. 
EflBcient  life  work  pointy  to  the  spirit  that 
inspires  the  best  educational  thought  of 
the  day. 

Is  not  lack  of  interest  and  earnestness 
on  the  part  of  women,  in  the  daily  routine 
of  life  the  main  cause  of  many  a  failure  in 
housekeeping  or  home-making?  And  may 
not  this  fault,  if  fault  there  be,  be  due 
largely  to  the  old  time  ways  of  training 
for  efficient  practical  life?  We  must 
catch  the  spirit  of  betterment  in  the 
ways  of  living  and  make  haste  to  adapt 
ourselves  to  the  new  conditions.  It  is 
the  duty,  rather  the  privilege,  of  every 
one  to  cultivate  an  interest  in  his  work. 
**  Whatsoever  thy  hand  findeth  to  do, 
do  it  with  thy  might*'  is  good  advice, 
and  sound  philosophy.  We  admire  the 
man  who  is  enthusiastic  and  in  earnest 
even  though  he  plead  a  poor  cause.  But 
a  lively  interest  in  one's  work  and  calling 
tends  to  lift  the  meanest  of  tasks  from 
the  sphere  of  drudgery  to  that  of  useful 
and  noble  service.  The  employee,  who 
can  say  he  just  loves  his  work,  will  not  be 
compelled,  in  all  likelihood,  to  ask  for  an 
increase  in  wage. 

RESERVED  STRENGTH 

A  MOST  pitiable  object  is  the  per- 
son who  can  not  amuse  and  enter- 
tain himself,  who  is  helplessly  dependent 
on   others  for   active  occupation    and 


EDITORIALS 


207 


amusement.  Often  he  becomes  an  un- 
pardonable bore  or  nuisance.  Internal 
resources  are  a  treastu'e  most  persons 
may  possess.  Children  shotdd  be  taught 
early  and  late,  in  season  and  out,  to 
occupy  and  amuse  themselves,  to  acqture 
steadily  a  fimd  of  resources  from  which 
they  may,  unconsciously,  draw  to  tide 
over,  otherwise,  many  a  bitter  idle  hour. 
And  we  have  so  many  objects  to  in- 
terest and  incite  to  constant,  active  life, 
that  idleness  would  seem  well  nigh  im- 
possible. There  are  tools  and  work, 
games,  books  and  music,  also  all  out-doors 
with  almost  cotmtless  subjects  of  attrac- 
tion and  delight;  and  there  is  the  silent 
hour  for  thought  and  meditation,  so 
inestimable  in  value  to  many;  for  "out  of 
silence  comes  thy  strength.*'  Surely  the 
means  and  sources  for  storing  up  re- 
sources at  self-command  are  inexhaustible. 
The  failure  to  attain  must  come  from 
improper  instruction  in  early  life.  The 
cultivation  of  natural,  instinctive  inter- 
ests have  been  neglected  or  misdirected. 
Anyhow  we  have  come  to  realize  that 
the  idle  and  indolent  are  a  biurden  to 
carry;  while  for  the  common  loafer 
society  has  no  use. 

CONTENTMENT    VERSUS    SATIS- 
FACTION 

DOES  the  chiu-ch  teach  that  a  man 
shotdd  be  satisfied  with  his  present 
condition,  no  matter  what  that  condition 
may  be?  Long  hoiu^,  short  wages,  un- 
sanitary workshops,  unhealthy  homes, 
uneducated  minds?  Nothing  could  be 
farther  from  the  truth.  The  whole  trend 
of  its  teaching  is  in  the  opposite  direc- 
tion. Some  men  are  sneeringly  saying 
that  the  Church  teaches  submission,  and 
that,  therefore,  it  is  an  obstacle  in  the 
way  of  real  progress.  I  want  to  point 
out  the  difference  between  being  '*con- 
tent"  and  being  "satisfied."  The  Bible 
exhorts  men  to  be  content.  It  does  not 
teach  that  they  are  to  be  satisfied. 

There  is  a  great  difference  between  the 
two.  St.  Paid  said  that  he  had  learned, 
in  whatsoever  state  he  was,  "therewith 


to  be  content.'*  He  had  learned  how  to 
make  the  best  of  things  as  they  were. 
But  in  the  same  epistle  he  added:  "Not 
as  though  I  had  already  attained,  either 
were  already  perfect.  This  one  thing  I 
do:  forgetting  the  things  which  are  be- 
hind (the  successes  and  the  failures),  I 
press  on."  He  was  content,  but  not 
satisfied. 

Satisfaction  is  derived  from  the  Latin 
words  "satis"  and  "facio,"  which  mean 
making  or  having  enough.  Content- 
ment is  from  the  Latin  "contineo,"  which 
means  to  contain,  or  to  hold  one's  self 
together. 

Contentment  lies  in  one's  self.  Satis- 
faction is  derived  from  external  objects. 
Contentment  means  the  enjoyment  of 
what  one  has,  but  it  does  not  imply  that 
one  has  reached  the  ideal.  It  is  not  in- 
difference or  laziness.  It  does  not  de- 
moralize character  or  hinder  noble  aspir- 
ations or  brave  endeavor  after  improve- 
ment. 

It  does  mean,  however,  that  one  is  self- 
contained, —  the  master  of  one's  self. 
No  man  can  reach  out  after  better  and 
higher  things  until  he  has  conquered 
himself.  Solomon,  the  wise  king,  once 
said,  "He  that  ruleth  his  spirit  is  greater 
than  he  that  taketh  a  city." 

And  so  the  Church  is  with  the  toiler  in 
his  struggles  after  better  things.  It  does 
not  teach  that  a  man  must  be  satisfied. 
It  does  teach  that  a  man  hould  learn  to 
be  content, —  and  so  does  common  sense 
teach  it. —  Rev.  Charles  Stelzle,  in  the 
Presbyterian  Advance, 


THE  statement  of  Irene  E.  MacDer- 
mott  of  Pittsburg,  at  the  National 
Education  Association,  held  recently  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  is  worthy  of  notice. 
"Education,"  she  declared,  "ought  to  be 
made  so  to  increase  efficiency  that  em- 
ployers will  voluntarily  raise  wages. 
Education  is  more  effective  in  preventing 
immorality  among  girls  than  a  minimum 
wage."  Apropos  of  Miss  MacDermott's 
statement,  the  writer  remembers  how,  a 


208 


THE  BOwSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


few  months  ago,  while  passing  through 
one  of  our  large  department  stores  in 
company  with  an  assistant  manager  talk- 
ing on  the  subject  of  morality  and  wages, 
the  manager  suddenly  stopped  and, 
pointing  to  a  young  girl  back  of  a  parcel 
cotmter,  said,  ** Watch  her  tie  up  that 
bundle."  The  girl  und3r  observation 
had  cut  off  a  piece  of  wrapping  paper 
twice  the  needed  length;  then  she  placed 
around  the  bundle  three  times  the  amount 
of  twine  necessary,  taking  for  this  simple 
operation  more  than  enough  time  and 
keeping  the  customer  waiting.  While 
she  worked  she  was  chewing  gum. 
"That's  what  we're  up  against,"  said  the 
manager,  —  * 'inefficiency,  wastefulness. 
That  girl  has  been  shown  how  to  tie  up 
bundles,  but  she  simply  doesn't  care  how 
much  she  wastes.  Tell  me  how  we  can 
afford  to  pay  such  help  more  than  we  do? 
We'd  gladly  pay  more  if  she  were  worth 


more. 


i» 


The  ability  to  be  alone  without  being 
lonely  is  a  good  index  of  character.  The 
summer  gives  opportunity  to  almost 
every  one  for  the  testing  of  ability  in  this 
direction.  To  judge  from  appearances, 
the  world  is  not  big  enough  to  make 
such  experience  possible,  or  there  are 
few  people  who  really  want  to  get  off  by 
themselves,  or  in  making  the  effort  so 
many  congregate  in  favorable  places 
that  the  very  effort  defeats  itself.  Few 
sights  are  more  depressing  than  the  sight- 
seers abroad  who  herd  it  through  art 
galleries  and  the  pleasure-seekers  at 
home  who  fill  the  wide  porches  of  the 
summer  hotel.  Being  alone  is  what  they 
seem  to  dread  and  avoid.  They  come 
to  nature  for  rest  and  peace,  and  bring 
the  very  associations  that  made  them 
need  a  change.  What  would  often  do 
the  most  good  would  be  a  temporary  de- 
sertion by  every  one  from  every  one  else. 
—  The  Christian  Register. 


"Get  leave  to  work 
In  this  world, — 'tis  the  best  you  get  at  all 
Get  work !  Get  work  1 
Be  sure  'tis  better  than  what  you  work  to  get." 


AN  OBJECT 

The  reader  of  a  culinary  journal  should 
not  expect  to  find  in  each  issue  absolutely 
new  recipes  or  items  that  promise  sure 
cure  of  all  household  perplexities.  New 
ideas  are  desirable  and  always  to  be 
sought  for,  but  other  matters  are  also 
to  be  esteemed.  Interest  in  one's  work 
and  occupation  is  to  be  kept  up;  in- 
centives to  higher  efforts  are  to  be  wel- 
comed ;  in  a  word,  we  need  constant  inspi- 
ration, in  order  to  attain  the  best 
results  in  any  occupation.  Information 
as  to  what  others  are  doing,  or  up-to-date 
knowledge  is  quite  essential  to  good 
every  day  workmanship  as  well  as  to  all 
future  progress  or  betterment.  In  these 
ways  the  household  publication  should 
be  found  helpful. 


Why  should  the  average  country  girl 
be  more  adapt  in  manipidating  things 
outside  than  inside  the  house,  unless  it 
be  that  she  has  been  humored  and  trained 
in  that  way?  Far  too  frequently,  it 
seems,  in  the  country  home,  the  mother 
does  the  cooking  and  the  house-keeping, 
while  the  daughter  drives  the  horses. 


That  which  we  hear  is  nothing  new, 
but  the  old  truth  uttered  in  the  new 
accents  of  faith.  There  are  no  new 
heavens  overhead,  but  the  old  heaven 
better  understood.  There  is  no  new 
earth  under  our  feet,  but  the  old  earth 
better  known.  There  is  no  new  revela- 
tion, specially  made,  but  the  unending 
revelation,  newly  read. — G,  B. 


Senator  Hoar  once  had  a  dear  friend 
ill  with  appendicitis  and  was  becoming 
uneasy,  when  a  letter  announced  joyfully 
that  the  surgeons  had  declared  the  ill- 
ness not  appendicitis,after  all,  but  acute- 
indigestion.  "That  is  good  news," 
said  the  senator.  **I  rejoice  that  the 
difficulty  lay  in  the ,  table  of  contents 
rather  than  in  the  appendix." — Sat- 
urday Evening  Post. 


SLICES  OF  LEMON  AND  ORANGE  FOB  TEA 


Seasonable  Recipes 

By  Janet  M.  Hill 

IN  all  recipes  where  flour  is  used,  unless  otherwise  stated,  the  flour  is  measured  aftei 
sifting  once.     Where  flour  is  measured  by  cups,  the  cup  is  filled  with  a  spoon,  and  a 
level  cupful  is  meant.    A  tablespoonful  or  teaspoonful    of    any   designated    material    is   a 


Oyster  Chaudfroid 
(Hors  d'Ouevre) 

USE  large  oysters;  take  one  or  two 
for  each  service.  Set  them  over 
a  quick  fire  and  shake  the  pan 
occasionally,  until  the  liquid  around  the 
oysters  is  heated  to  the  boiling  point; 
cover,  and  let  simmer  about  three  min- 
utes. Drain  the  oysters  and  let  chill  on 
or  near  ice.  Have  ready  one  cup  of 
aspic  jelly,  made  of  three-fourths  a  cup 
of  chicken  broth,  seasoned  with  celery, 
carrot  and  onion,  and  one-fourth  a  pack- 
age of  gelatine,  softened  in  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  cold  water,  also  half  a  cup  of  thick 
mayonnaise  dressing.  When  the  aspic 
is  quite  cool  but  not  "set",  beat  it  very 
gradually  into  the  mayonnaise.  Use 
this  aspic  mayonnaise  to  coat  the  chilled 
oysters.  Set  on  ice  to  become  firm;  set 
a  ring  cut  from  an  otive  on  each  oyster,  a 
figure  cut  from  a  pimiento  in  the  center, 
then  cover  with  a  little  half-set  aspic 
(without  mayonnaise)  to  keep  the  decor- 
ation from  drying.     Serve,  on  rounds  or 


ovals  of  toasted  or  fried  bread,  before  the 
soup  or  in  place  of  it. 

Small  Bouchees,  Caroline 

Bake  chou  paste  (cream  cake  mixture) 
in  small,  round  or  oval  shapes.  Cut  off 
the  tops  (when  cold)  and  fill  with  hard- 
cooked  eggs,  cut  in  small,  neat  cubes, 
and  truffles,  cut  in  the  same  way,  mixed 
with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  as  an 
appetizer. 

Roulettes 
Have  ready  thin  slices  of  oatmeal, 
Graham  or  Boston  Brown  Bread,  with 
crusts  removed.  Spread  these  with 
chopped  and  pounded  chicken  or  ham 
{or  both)  mixed  to  taste  with  anchovy 
paste  and  chopped  capers.  Roll  each 
slice  neatly,  butter  the  outside  of  each 
roulette  lightly,  then  roll  half  of  them  in 
chopped  parsley  and  the  other  half  in 
chopped  white,  or  sifted  yolk  of  egg. 
Serve  as  an  appetizer  at  dinner,  luncheon 
or  high  tea. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Caviare  in  Tomato  Cups 

Select  small  bright  red  tomatoes  of  a 
unjfonn  size.  Peel  and  scoop  out  the 
centers  and  sprinkle  the  insides  lightly 
with  salt.  In  each  set  a  teaspoonful  of 
caviare  seasoned  with  a  few  drops,  each, 
of  onion  juice,  and  lemon  juice  and  a 
generous  sprinkling  of  paprika.  Finish 
with  a  quarter  a  shce  of  hard-cooked  egg. 
The  tomatoes  should  be  very  small  and 
both  tomato  and  caviare  be  thoroughly 
chilled.     Serve  as  a  hors  d'oeuvre. 


a  sieve ;  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  paprika  and,  if  desired, 
a  cup  o£  tomato  pur^.  Heat  the  soup  to 
the  boiling  point.  Beat  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  and  gradually 
beat  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour ;  dilute 
with  a  little  of  the  hot  soup,  stir  until 
smooth,  then  return  to  the  soup  kettle 
and  let  simmer  fifteen  minutes;  skim  as 
needed.  Serve  a  slice  of  lemon  and  a 
slice  of  hard-cooked  egg  in  each  plate  of 
soup.     Pass  croutons  with  the  soup. 

Tuna  Fish  Cakes 
For  a  small  family  let  a  can  of  Tuna 
become  very  hot  in  boiling  water;  open 
the  can,  drain  off  the  liquid  and  turn  the 
fish  uponhotdish;  serve  with  plain  boiled 
potatoes  and  drawn  butter  sauce,  to 
which  chopped  pickles  or  hard-cooked 
egg  has  been  added.     The  next  day,  or 


SAUTED  SWOBD  FISH 


Deviled  Almonds  (Belle  Reece) 
Blanch  two  ounces  of  almonds  and,  at 
once,  cut  into  shreds ;  saut^  a  light  brown 
in  clarified  butter  or  in  olive  oil  or  let 
brown  in  the  oven;  add  half  a  tablespoon 
of  Worcestershire  sauce ,  hal  f  a  tablespoon 
of  chutney,  one  gherkin,  cut  in  shreds, 
and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne,  mix  thor- 
oughly and  serve  on  rounds  or  ovals  of 
toasted  or  fried  bread.  If  toast  be  used, 
butter  it  while  hot.  Serve  as  an  appeti- 
zer at  the  beginning  of  meal  or  as  a 
"bonne  boucke"  at  the  close. 

Black  Bean  Soup 

Let  one  pint  of  black  or  dark  red  kid- 
ney beans  soak  in  cold  water  over 
night;  drain,  wash  in  cold  water  and 
rinse  and  drain  again.  Set  to  cook  in 
two  quarts  of  cold  water;  add  an  onion, 
two  branches  of  parsley  and  let  simmer 
until  the  beans  are  soft,  adding  boiling 
water  as  needed.  Press  the  beans  through 


BLACK  BASS 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


211 


the  day  thereafter,  reheat  the  potatoes  in 
boiling  water,  drain  and  mash;  add  the 
remnants  of  the  fish,  picked  fine,  and  the 
sauce,  mix  thoroughly  and  shape  into 


Have  ready  hot,  mealy,  baked  potatoes; 
empty  pulp  from  the  skins  into  the  dish 
and  mash  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  plated 
fork;  add  butter,  hot  cream  and^enough 


BAKED  BLUEFISH.  BREAD  DRESSING 


smail  flat  cakes;  pat  these  in  flour,  then 
saut^  in  salt  pork  or  bacon  fat,  flrst  on 
one  side  and  then  on  the  other. 

Sauted  Sword  Fish 

Cut  a  slice  of  sword-fish  in  triangular- 
shaped  pieces,  dip  in  egg  and  soft,  sifted 
bread  crumbs  and  saut6  in  fat  from  salt 
pork.  Set  around  a  mound  of  mashed 
potato  and  pipe  mashed  potato  between 
and  above  the  pieces  of  fish. 

Mashed  Potatoes 
Cook  pared  potatoes  in  boiling,  salted 
water  until  tender;  drain,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  let  stand,  partially  covered,  on 
the  back  of  the  range  a  few  moments. 
Keep  the  saucepan  hot  on  the  stove, 
turning  the  potatoes  into  another  dish  if 
necessary;  press  the  potatoes  through  a 
"ricer"  into  the  saucepan;  make  a  place 
free  of  potato  on  the  bottom  and  turn  in 
a  little  sweet  milk  and  watch  until  it 
boils;  add  salt  and  butter  as  needed,  beat 
with  a  slitted,  wooden  spoon  until  light 
and  creamy.    Serve  at  once. 

Paprika  Potatoes  Served  with  Fish 
Chops,  Etc. 

This  dish  may  be  prepared  at  the  din- 
ner or  luncheon  table  in  the  chafing  dish. 


paprika  to  tint  them  delicately  yet  notice- 
ably. The  potatoes  when  done  should 
have  the  consistency  of  soft,  mashed 
potatoes. 

Baked  Bluefish 
The  fish  used  in  the  illustration  was  a 
bluefish  weighing  about  five  pounds. 
Other  sea  fish  or  black  bass  may  be  pre- 
pared in  the  same  manner.  As  thus  pre- 
pared every  morsel  sent  to  the  table  is 
edible  and  the  dish  presents  a  much  more 
attractive  appearance  than  when  the 
fish  is  sent  to  the  table  whole.  Remove 
the  head  of  the  fish,  then  cut  down  both 
sides  of  the  back  and  remove  a  narrow 
strip  of  sldn  with  fins  attached;  remove 
also  a  strip  from  the  front  of  the  fish  in 
the  same  manner,  then  loosen  the  skin 
below  the  head  from  the  flesh,  grasp 
the  skin  with  the  fingers  of  the  left  hand 
and,  keeping  the  back  of  a  knife  against 
the  breadth  of  the  fish  or  the  edge  against 
the  sldn,  push  and  pull  the  skin  from  the 
flesh  on  both  sides;  now  cut  the  flesh 
from  the  bones  on  both  sides,  leaving  as 
little  flesh  on  the  bones  as  possible;  re- 
move any  single  small  bones  that  may 
remain  near  the  head  of  the  fish;  wash 
and  wipe  dry.  On  a  fish  sheet  of  suitable 
length  —  the  cover  of  a  tin  cracker  box 


212 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


with  edges  flattened  answers  the  pur- 
pose—  set  in  a  baking  pan,  lay  two  or 
three  thin  slices  of  fat  salt  pork,  on  these 
set  one  piece  of  the  fish  and  above  dispose 
a  layer  of  bread  dressing;  on  this  set  the 
other  piece  of  fish ;  add  bits  of  pork  above. 
Let  bake  about  forty  minutes,  basting 
with  fat,  salt  pork  fat,  milk,  cream  or 
tomato  sauce.  When  baked  remove  the 
bits  of  pork  from  the  top,  spread  on 
three-fourths  a  cup  of  fine  cracker  crumbs 
mixed  with  one-fourth  a  cup  of  melted 
butter.  Return  to  the  oven  to  brown 
the  crumbs.  Lift  out  the  tin  sheet  and 
with  a  spatula  push  the  slices  neatly  on 
to  a  platter.  Garnish  with  slices  of 
parsley  and  lemon.  Serve  drawn  butter 
or  Hollandaise  sauce  in  a  bowl. 


suitable  for  individual  service.  Cut  out 
a  piece  around  the  stem  end.  Season 
inside  with  salt  and  paprika.  Havefillets 
of  salt  or  fresh  water  fish  of  a  size  for  in- 
dividual service.  Roll  these  in  melted  but- 
ter, sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon 
juice,  also,  if  desired,  a  few  drops  of  onion 
juice;  roll  into  turban  shapes  and  set  into 
the  tomato  cups.  Set  the  tomatoes  into 
an  agate  baking  dish  and  baste  withmelted 
butter;  bake  about  ten  minutes  or  until 
the  fish  is  cooked.  Serve  in  individual 
casseroles  or  ramekins  with  Hollandaise 
sauce  poured  over.  Cold  cooked  turbans 
of  fish  may  be  set  in  peeled -and-c  hi  lied 
tomato  cups  (uncooked)  with  mayonnaise 
poured  over.  Sauce  Tartare  may  re- 
place the  mayonnaise. 


YOUNG  CHICKEN.  HUNGARIAN   STYLE 

Bread    Dressing    for    Baked   Fish     Young  Chicken,  Hungarian  Style 


Mix  together  one  generous  cup  of  soft 
bread  crumbs,  one-fourth  a  cup  of  melted 
butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine-chopped 
green  or  red  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of 
fine-chopped  or  scraped  onion,  one-fourth 
a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  paprika 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sweet 
basil.  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  fine- 
chopped  pickles  may  also  be  added. 

Fillet  of  Fish  in  Tomato  Cups 

Select  tomatoes  of  uniform  size  and 


Separate  a  young  chicken  into  pieces 
at  the  joints,  and  make  three  portions  of 
the  breast;  dip  the  pieces  in  water,  then 
roU  lightly  in  flour  and  saut4  in  fat  tried 
out  of  fat,  salt  pork.  When  browned  on 
one  side  turn  and  brown  the  other  side; 
add  about  one  pint  of  milk,  cover  and  let 
simmer  until  the  chicken  is  tender.  It 
will  probably  take  about  one  hour.  If 
preferred  the  chicken  may  be  removed 
from  the  frying  pan  to  a  casserole.  The 
cooking  may  be  completed  in  the  oven  or 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


PANNED  CHICKEN 


on  top  of  the  range.  Finish  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  white  wine  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  fine-chcpped  parsley.  While 
the  chicken  is  cooking,  blanch  and  cooka 
cup  of  rice,  season  with  a  teaspoonful  o£ 
salt,  half  a  teaspoonful  ormore  of  paprika, 
and  a  grating  of  nutmeg.  If  convenient, 
use  a  pint  of  chicken  broth  with  about  a 
cup  of  water  or  tomato  pur^e,  in  cooking 
the  rice.  When  cooked  stir  through  it 
(with  a  silver  fork)  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  and  about  one -fourth  a  cup  of  but- 
ter. Butter  a  border  mold;  fill  it  with 
the  rice,  packing  it  soHdlv-  Turn  the 
rice  upon  a  fiat  dish  of  suitable  size. 
Dispose  the  chicken  in  the  center.  Strain 
the  sauce,  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon 
and  beat  in  a  little  butter.  Pour  the 
sauce  over  the  chicken.  The  rice  may 
be  shaped  on  the  serving  dish  with  a 
spoon  instead  of  in  a  mold. 

Panned  Chicken 
With  a  strong,  sharp  knife  cut  down 


both  sides  of  the  back-bone  of  a  young 
chicken,  spread  out  the  flesh  and  remove 
all  the  internal  organs  attached  to  the 
back-bone.  Wash  the  meat,  wipe  dry 
and  set,  skin  side  down,  on  a  rack  in  a 
baking  pan.  Lay  slices  of  fat  salt  pork 
on  the  meat  and  set  to  cook  in  a  hot  oven ; 
after  fifteen  minutes  reduce  the  heat, 
cover  closely  and  let  bake  until  tender. 
The  chicken  should  be  juicy  and  not  dry 
in  the  least.  Serve  with  it  broiled  bacon 
and  the  liver.  Garnish  with  toast-points, 
dipped  in  the  liquid  in  the  pan,  and  then 
in  fine-chopped  parsley. 

Loin  Roast  of  Beef 
The  cut  of  beef  shown  in  the  illustra- 
tion is  the  first  beyond  the  "tip  of  the 
loin."  Wipe  with  a  damp  cloth  and  set, 
skin  side  down,  on  a  rack  in  the  meat 
pan :  rub  over  with  salt  and  flour.  Set  in 
a  hot  oven  to  sear  over  the  surface  and 
baste  each  ten  minutes  with  fat  in  the 
pan  or  with  fat  from  the  top  of  a  dish  of 


LOIN   ROAST  OF  BEEF.  FRANCONIA   POTATOES 


214 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


soup;  dredge  with  flour  after  each  bast- 
ing. Reduce  the  heat,  after  twenty  min- 
utes, and  let  cook  from  an  hour  and  a 
quarter  to  an  hour  and  a  half  or  three- 
quarters,  as  a  rare,  medium-rare  or  well- 
done  piece  of  meat  is  desired.  Turn 
the  meat  when  half-cooked.  About  half 
an  hour  before  removal  from  the  oven, 
dispose  around  the  meat  in  the  pan 
potatoes,  pared  and  cooked  fifteen  min- 
utes in  boiling  water.  Baste  the  pota- 
toes, when  the  meat  is  basted.  At  no 
time  should  the  fat  in  the  pan  be  heated 
enough  to  bum.  Meat  cooked  at  too 
high  a  temperature  is  never  satisfactorily 
cooled. 

Pie  from  Remnants  of  Loin  Roast 

Cut  the  remnants  of  meat  from  a  roast 


water  and  set  them  in  regular  order  on 
the  paste;  set  the  paste  above  the  meat, 
letting  it  rest  on  the  meat  and  the  edge 
of  the  dish.     Bake  about  half  an  hour. 

Biscuit  Paste  for  Meat  Pie 
Sift  together  two  cups  of  sifted  pastry 
flour,  two  rounding  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Cut  in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  shortening  and 
mix  to  a  dough  with  milk  {from  half  to 
three-fourths  a  cup  of  milk  will  be 
needed).  Turn  on  to  a  floured  board, 
roll  to  coat  with  flour,  then  knead  slightly 
and  roll  out  as  required. 

Currant-Mint  Sauce  for  Roast 
Lamb 

Chop  fine  a  bunch  of  mint  leaves,  then 


PIE  FROM  REMNANTS  OF  BOAST  BEEF 


of  beef  in  very  thin  slices,  and  trim  off 
all  unedible  portions.  Put  the  bones, 
gristle,  etc., and  left  over  gravy  or  sauce 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water  and 
let  simmer  an  hour  or  two,  then  drain  off 
the  liquid ;  in  this  broth  simmer  the  pre- 
pared meat  until  tender.  It  will  take 
two  hours  or  longer  to  render  the  meat 
perfectly  tender.  Turn  the  meat  and 
broth  into  a  shallow  pie  dish  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  ready  some 
baking-powder  biscuit-mixture,  rolled 
into  a  thin  sheet ;  cut  this  to  fit  the  top  of 
the  dish,  stamp  out  some  ornaments, 
brush  the  under  side  of  these  with  cold 


mix  through  a  tumbler  of  currant  jelly 
softened  over  hot  water. 

Cold  Roast  Fillet  of  Beef, 
Jardiniere 
The  fillet  from  the  rump  of  beef  weighs 
from  two  and  a  half  to  three  and  a  half 
pounds.  To  be  served  cold,  it  may  be 
covered  over  when  set  into  the  oven  with 
slices  of  fat  salt  pork,  instead  of  being 
larded.  Cook  as  any  roast,  basting  fre- 
quently, but  with  higher  heat,  the  meat 
being  thin.  Bake  about  three-quarters 
of  an  hour.  When  cold  cut  in  very  thin 
slices,  but  across  the  grain  and  somewhat 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


COLD  ROAST  FILLET  OF  BEEP.  JARDINIERE 


transversely  rather  than  straight  across. 
Have  ready  some  cooked  cereal,  molded 
in  a  narrow  bread  pan.  The  pan  should 
have  straight  sides  and  be  about  the 
width  of  the  sUces  of  meat.  Set  the 
mold  of  cereal  on  a  suitable  dish,  brush  it 
with  white  of  egg,  slightly  beaten,  then 
sprinkle  with  fine-chopped  parsley.  Dis- 
pose the  slices  of  meat  on  the  cereal  foim- 
datiou  (Socle).  Set  around  the  founda- 
tion cold,  cooked  flowerets  of  cauliflower, 
quartersof  beetsandshelledbeans.  Pipe 
B  emai  se  sauce  on  the  meat  and  vegetables . 
Serve  as  the  main  dish  at  luncheon  or 
high  tea.  Hollandaise  or  Mayonnaise 
sauce  may  be  used  with  this  dish. 

Bernaise  Sauce 

Chop,  fine,  enough  mild  onion  to  make 

two  tablespoonf uls ;  add  a  slice  of  green 

pepper,  chopped  fine,  and  one-fourth  a 


cup  of  vinegar;  let  stand  on  the  shelf  of 
the  range  about  half  an  hour,  then  strain 
through  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth,  pressing 
out  all  the  juice;  meanwhile,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter ;  set  over  hot  water  and 
stir  constantly,  while  adding  butter  in 
small  pieces,  until  half  a  cup  in  all  has 
been  added.  Finish  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  parsley,  chopped  exceedingly  fine 
and  wrung  dry  in  a  cloth.  If  the  pars- 
ley be  not  fine,  it  will  clog  the  pipe  when 
the  sauce  is  set  in  place. 

Egg-and-Tomato  Salad 

Cut  hard-cooked  eggs  in  quarters,  after 
removing  a  slice  from  one  end  that  the 
eggs  may  stand  level.  On  individual 
plates  set  slices  of  ripe  tomato  with  two 
or  three  heart-leaves  of  lettuce;  on  each 
slice  of  tomato  set  one  of  the  prepared 


PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


OATMEAL  BISCUIT 


«ggs,  held  together  with  a  ring  cut  from  a 
slice  of  tomato.  Surround  with  mayon- 
naise dressing. 

Parker  House  Rolls 
Mix  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast 
through  half  a  cup  of  scalded-and -cooled 
milk,  then  add  to  two  cups  of  scalded-and- 
cooled  milk.  Stir  in  about  three  cups 
of  bread  flour.  Beat  the  mixture  until 
smooth,  cover  and  set  aside  out  of 
draughts.  When  light  and  puffy  add 
half  a  cup  of  melted  shortening,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Wash 
themixing  bowl  and  butter  it;  put  in  the 


dough,  cover  and  set  aside  to  become 
doubled  in  bulk.  Do  not  cut  down. 
Turn,  undisturbed,  upside  down  upon  a 
board,  lightly  dredged  and  rubbed  with 
flour;  pat  and  roll  into  a  sheet  less  than 
half  an  inch  thick;  this  can  be  done  with 
a  few  motions  of  the  rolling  pin,  if  the 
directions  be  accurately  followed.  Lift 
the  dough  from  the  board,  that  the 
rounds  may  not  shrink  when  cut,  and 
cut  into  rounds;  set  a  bit  of  butter  on 
one -half  and  fold  over  evenly.  Bake 
about  twenty-five  minutes  when  again 
light.  For  a  crusty  glaze,  brush  over, 
when  baked,  with  white  of  egg,  slightly 
beaten,  and  return  to  the  oven  for  one  or 
two  minutes.    For  a  soft  glaze  brush  over 


MILK   SHERBET,  WITH  DECORATION 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


217 


with  com  starch,  mixed  with  cold  water 
and  cooked  in  boiling  water  to  a  smooth 
thin  paste.  Either  glaze  makes  a  good 
''finish"  to  the  rolls.  These  and  all 
rolls  are  good,  reheated  in  the  paper 
bags  sold  for  cooking  purposes. 

Oatmeal  Biscuit 

Pour  two  cups  of  hot  milk  over  one  cup 
of  uncooked  oatmeal;  add  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  butter  or  other  shortening  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  when  cooled  to  a 
lukewarm  temperature  add  a  cake  of 
compressed  yeast,  mixed  through  half  a 
cup  of  lukewarm  milk  or  water,  half  a 
cup  of  molasses  and  about  two  cups,  each 
of  entire  wheat  and  white  flour;  beat  the 
mixture  about  ten  minutes,  cover  and  set 
aside  to  become  light.  Cut  down  and 
turn  into  small  timbale  molds,  or  into 
muffin  pans,  carefully  buttered.  When 
nearly  doubled  in  bulk  bake  about 
twenty  minutes. 

Cornmeal  Muffins 

Cream  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter; 
beat  in  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  two  eggs, 
beaten  without  separating;  add  three- 
fourths  a  cup  of  milk.  Sift  together  one 
cup  and  a  half  of  flour,  three-fourths  a 
cup  of  com  meal,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  three  level  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing powder;  add  the  liquid  ingredients 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Bake  in  a  hot,  well- 
buttered  muffin  pan  about  twenty-five 
minutes. 

Glaced  Crabapples   (Miss  Recce) 

Select  a  hard,  red  variety  of.  crab- 
apples.  Use  only  perfect  fruit.  For  a 
peck  of  apples  take  five  pounds  of  gran- 
ulated sugar.  Wash  and  wipe  the  fruit, 
leaving  on  the  stems  if  desired;  put  the 
fniit  and  sugar  in  stone  jars  or  casseroles, 
in  layers,  adding  cinnamon  and  cassia 
buds  to  taste.  Cover  the  jars  with  a 
buttered  paper.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  two 
and  one-half  hours.  These  may  be 
stored  as  canned  fruit,  but  will  keep  in 
earthen  jars  some  time. 


Milk  Sherbet  with  Decoration 

Mix  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sugar  with 
the  jtiice  of  four  lemons  and  gradually 
beat  in  one  quart  of  rich  milk.  Pack 
and  freeze  at  once.  Serve  in  glass  cups 
with  a  cherry  and  a  sprinkling  of  chopped 
pistachio  nuts  above. 

Slices  of  Orange  and  Lemon  for 

Teas 

Cut  the  fruit  in  halves,  lengthwise; 
lay  flat  side  down  on  a  board  and  with  a 
sharp  knife  cut  in  exceedingly  thin  slices. 
Dispose  these  in  a  glass  dish,  in  alternate 
rows,  orange  and  lemon,  each  half  slice 
slightly  overlapping  another.  Fill  the 
center  with  cubes  of  preserved  ginger  or 
pineapple.  With  a  smaller  dish,  cut  in 
quarter  rather  than  half -slices.  Serve  a 
piece  of  lemon,  orange  and  the  third 
article  in  each  cup  of  tea.  The  effect 
of  the  arrangement  is  that  of  a  flower 
with  petals,  of  two  colors,  alternating. 

Rummage  Pickles 

Chop  three  quarts  of  green  tomatoes, 
one  quart  of  ripe  tomatoes,  three  small 
bunches  of  celery,  three  large  onions, 
three  red  peppers,  three  green  peppers, 
one  large  ripe  cucumber  and  one  quart  of 
small  green  cucumbers.  Cover  with 
one-third  a  cup  of  salt.  Let  stand  over- 
night; in  the  morning  drain  well,  add 
three  pints  of  vinegar,  two  pounds  of 
brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful,  each,  of 
mustard  and  pepper  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  cinnamon.  Store  cold  in  half -pint 
fruit  jars,  that  only  a  small  portion  may 
be  opened  at  once. 

Drop  Cookies 

Beat  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to 
a  cream;  beat  in  one-fouth  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  well 
beaten  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk 
and  one  cup  of  sifted  flour,  sifted  again 
with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der. Drop  by  small  teaspoofuls  on  a 
buttered  tin;  set  half  a  pecan  nut  meat 
above.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


< 

Q 
O 


< 

Q 


Menus  for  a  Week  in  October 

FAMILY  WITH  YOUNG  CHILDREN 

Taste  the  food  that  stands  before  you; 

It  is  blessed  and  enchanted. 

It  has  magic  virtues  in  it. 

Longfellow 


> 
< 
Q 

c/) 


Breakfast 

Cream  of  Wheat,  Thin  Cream 

Bacon  Cooked  in  Broiler  in  Oven 

Small  Baked  Potatoes 

Dry  Toast 

Cocoa  CoflFee 

Dinner 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

Browned  Crackers 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops 

Mashed  Potato  Squash 

Queen  of  Puddings 

Supper 

Hot  Boiled  Rice,  Milk 
Zwiebach,  Sliced  Peaches 
Hot  Bacon  Sandwiches  (adults) 
Tea 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Creamed  Salt  Codfish  on  Toast 

Sliced   Tomatoes  or  Pickled   Beets 

Corn  Meal  Muffins 

Coffee  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Fresh    Fish-  Boiled,    Drawn    Butter    Sauce 

Boiled  Potatoes  Boiled  Onions 

Apple  Dumplings 

Coffee 

Supper 

Mealy  Baked  Potatoes,  Butter 

Sardines  Dry  Toast 

"Boiled"  Custard  in  Cups 

Sponge  Cake 

Tea  Milk 


Breakfast 

Sliced  Bananas,  Thin  Cream 

Milk  Toast 

Cooked  Ham,  Broiled      Baked  Potato  Cakes 

Cocoa  Coffee 

Dinner 

Fore  Quarter  of  Lamb  Boiled,  Caper  Sauce 
Boiled  Potatoes  Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Celery 
Cornstarch    Blanc    Mange,    Cream,    Sugar 
Coffee  Milk 

Supper 

Cream  Toast  with  Beaten  Egg 
Bran  Cookies  Stewed  Crabapples 

Tea  Milk 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Milk 

Eggs  Cooked  in  Shell 

Toasted  Muffins  Honey  in  Comb 

Cocoa  Coffee 

Dinner 

Broiled  Hamburg  Steak 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes  Lettuce 

Tapioca    Custard    Pudding,    Vanilla    Sauce 

Supper 

Corn  Custard 

Oatmeal  Biscuit 

Baked  Apples,  Sweet 


Tea 


Milk 


Breakfast 

Oatmeal 
Poached  Eggs  on  Toast 
Rye  Meal  Muffins  Sliced  Tomatoes 

Coffee  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Lamb  and  Tomato  Soup 
35    Baked  Potatoes  Hashed  Lamb 

^  I  Spinach 

Creamy  Rice  Pudding 
Coffee 

Supper 

Soft  Scrambled  Eggs 
Toast  Zwiebach  Stewed  Prunes 

Cold  Water  Sponge  Cake 
Tea  Milk 


Cocoa 


Breakfast 

Boiled  Rice,  Thin  Cream 

Left  Over  Fish  in  Cakes 

Buttered  Toast 

Dinner 


Coffee 


Fresh  Fish  Chowder 
Pickled   Beets  or  Sliced  Tomatoes 
-     Lemon  Jelly,  Custard  Sauce 
Honey  Cookies 

Supper 

Stewed  Lima  Beans,  Buttered 
French  Bread,  Toasted 
Cottage  Cheese  Stewed  Crabapples 

Oatmeal  Macaroons 
Tea  Milk 


D 
z 

PI 

in 
O 
> 


c 

C 
> 
< 


2 

5 
> 
< 


< 

Q 

D 
H 
< 


Breakfast 

Creamed  Smoked  Beef 

White  Hashed  Potatoes 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes 

Honey  Syrup 

Coffee  Cocoa 


Dinner 

Stewed  Pigeons 

Scalloped  or  Stewed  Tomatoes 

Celery 

Roasted  Chestnuts 

Home-Made  Carmels         Coffee 


Supper 

Potato  Soup 
Croutons 
Stewed  Pears 
Cream  Cakes 
Tea  Milk 


918 


> 

< 
a 


Menus  for  a  Week  in  October 

For  agreeable  flavor  try  dishes  reddened  and  made  piquant  with  paprika. 


Breakfast 

Oatmeal 

Eggs  Cooked  in  Shell 

New  Rye  Bread 

Coffee 

Dinner 

«    Roast  Loin  of  Beef 

Franconia  Potatoes 

Squash  Tomato  Salad 

Deviled  Almonds 

Coffee 

Supper 

Apples  Baked  with  Almonds 

New  Rye  Bread 
Cottage  Cheese  with  Paprika 

Honey  Cookies 
Tea 


Coffee 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 
Eggs  in  Shell 
Dutch  Apple  Cake,  Revised 


Cocoa 


Dinner 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb 

Currant-Telly-Mint  Sauce 

Potatoes    Scalloped    with    Peppers 

Baked  Squash 

Cottage  Pudding,  Creamy  Sauce 

Coffee 

Supper 

Boiled  Rice,  Milk 

Potato  Salad  Sardines 

New  Rye  Bread  and  Butter 

Tea 


o 
2: 

w 

> 


< 

Q 
Z 

o 


< 


> 
< 
Q 

;^ 
< 


Breakfast 

Cream  of  Wheat,  Thin  Cream 
Sliced  Bananas 
Frizzled  Dried  Beef    White  Hashed  Potatoes 
Com  Meal  Muffins 
Cocoa  Coffee 

Dinner 

Roast  Beef  Pie,  Biscuit  Crust 
Cauliflower  au  Gratin  Celer>' 

Baked  Tapioca  Custard,  Vanilla  Sauce 
Crackers  Cheese 

Coffee 

Supper 

Shelled  Beans,  Stewed 
Fresh  Graham  Bread  and  Butter 
Sponge  Cake  Sliced  Peaches 

Tea 


Coffee 


Breakfast 

Melons 
Broiled  Cooked  Ham 
Creamed  Potatoes 
Doughnuts 

Dinner 


Cocoa 


Rechaufee  of  Lamb 
(with  shredded  green  peppers,  tomato  puree 

and  macaroni) 

Pickled  Beets 

Apple  Pie  Cheese  Coffee 

Supper 

Baked  Potatoes,  Butter 

Broiled  Bacon  Stewed  Crabapples 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit  or  Pop  Overs 

Tea 


H 

DC 

a 
> 


Breakfast 

Broiled  Bacon 

Small  Sweet  Potatoes  Baked 

Fried  Cream  of  Wheat.  Maple  or  Caramel  Syrup 

Dry  Toast        Coffee        Cocoa 

Dinner 

Boned  Slices  of  Fish  Baked  with  Milk 

Baked  Potatoes  with  Paprika 
Cucumbers,  French  Dressing  or  New  Pickles 
Boiled  Onions  in  Cream 
Peach  Sherbet  Coffee 

Supper 

Gnocchi  a  la  Komaine 

Hot  Apple  Sauce 

Buttered  Toast  Tea 


Egg  Sauce 


Breakfast 

Sweet  Apples,  Baked,  Cereal,  Thin    Cream 

Eggs  Scrambled  with  Chopped  Ham 

Cream  Toast  Coffee  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Tuna  Boiled  in  Can 
Boiled  Potatoes 

Sliced  Tomatoes 

Lemon  Sponge  Pie  or 

Lemon  Jelly  with  Sliced  Bananas 

Coffee 

Supper 

Oyster  Stew 

New  Pickles  Buttered  Toast 

Cheese,  Apple  Sauce  Tea 


S 
> 


Breakfast 

Corn  Meal  Mush,  Milk 

French  Omelet 
Sliced  Tomatoes,  Broiled 

Parker  House  Rolls 
Coffw  C0C04 


Dinner 

Hot  Corned  Beef 

Boiled  Potatoes    Boiled  Cabbage 

Boiled  Squash 

Baked  Indian  Pudding, Whipped  Cream 

Coffee 


Supper 

Hot  Baked  Sweet  Apples 

Bread  Milk 

Gingerbread 

Tea 


319 


Practical  Home  Dietetics 

'Diet  in  Uric  Acid  Disorders 
By  Minnie  Genevieve  Morse 


THE  process  of  human  nutrition  is 
one  of  the  most  marvelous  phen- 
omena in  a  universe  of  marvels. 
Even  when  through  carelessness  or 
self-indulgence  or  privation  the  fuel  sup- 
plied to  the  body  furnace  is  improperly 
selected,  insufficient,  or  too  abundant, 
up  to  a  certain  point  the  machinery  ad- 
justs itself  to  the  abnormal  conditions, 
and  comparatively  little  harm  results. 
This  is  especially  the  case  in  youth,  when 
all  the  nutritive  processes  are  carried  on 
with  greatest  vigor;  when  the  afternoon 
of  life  commences,  and  the  physical 
powers  begin  to  wane,  adjustment  to 
abnormal  conditions  becomes  more  diffi- 
cult. Unfortunately,  this  is  the  time 
when  the  heaviest  strain  is  apt  to  be 
put  upon  the  organs  of  digestion 
and  elimination;  the  pleasures  of  ti.c 
tabic  are  usually  dearest  to  those  wlo 
are  no  longer  bearing  the  heat  and  burden 
of  the  day,  but  are  allowing  themselves  a 
respite  from  hard  work  and  bodily 
exertion.  In  persons  of  this  type,  over- 
indulgence in  eating  and  drinking,  or 
anything  that  tends  to  bring  about  a 
further  insufficiency  of  these  or  other 
organs,  may  result  in  the  accumula- 
tion in  the  body  of  waste  products 
which  the  excreting  system  is  not  able 
to  carry  off. 

Of  these  waste  products,   which,   by 


remaining  in  the  body  in  excessive  quan- 
tities, may  produce  detrimental  efTects, 
the  one  that  probably  does  the  most 
damage,  and  the  one  regarding  which 
the  public  certainly  hears  the  most,  is 
uric  acid.  Just  how  an  excess  of  uric 
acid  in  the  system  is  brought  about  is 
not  certain,  but  it  is  known  to  be  due  in 
some  manner  to  a  defect  in  the  way  the 
nitrogenous  foods,  and  especially  meats, 
are  handled  by  the  nutritive  processes. 
Probably  the  principal  causative  factor 
may  vary  somewhat  in  different  cases. 
Nor  is  the  form  of  trouble  produced  by 
the  excess  of  acid  always  the  same.  It 
may  be  deposited  as  crystals  in  the 
kidneys  or  bladder,  forming  renal  or 
vesical  calculi,  popularly  known  as 
"gravel";  a  gouty  condition  may  appear, 
characterized  by  an  accumulation  of  de- 
posits in  the  joints;  or  there  may  be  only 
the  more  indefinite  symptoms  included 
in  what  is  known  as  the  litheinic  state, 
among  which  may  be  mentioned  various 
forms  of  irritation  of  the  nervous  system, 
digestive  disttu-bances,  headache  or  a 
feeling  of  fulness  of  the  head,  or  some 
skin  affection.  Rheumatism  was  also 
formerly  believed  to  be  largely  due  to 
excess  of  uric  acid  in  the  blood,  and,  while 
acute  rheumatism  is  now  numbered 
among  germ  diseases,  and  an  anti-uric- 
acid  diet  is  thought  to  be  of  less  import" 


URIC  ACID  DIvSORDERS 


221 


ance  in  its  prevention  or  its  treatment 
than  was  supposed  a  generation  ago, 
still  it  is  known  that  a  premature  return 
to  a  meat  diet  after  an  attack  may  induce 
a  relapse. 

Special  restricted  diets  for  use  in  dis- 
eased conditions  are  much  less  often 
prescribed  than  was  formerly  the  case, 
research  having  proved  the  futility  of 
many  of  the  dietetic  methods  of  earlier 
days.  The  principle  of  modem  dietetics 
seems  to  be,  largely,  to  give  in  most  con- 
ditions as  well  balanced,  nourishing,  and 
easily  digestible  a  diet  as  is  possible  under 
the  circumstances,  treating  each  case  to  a 
considerable  extent  on  its  own  merits. 
Even  in  chronic  kidney  disease,  in  dia- 
betes, in  obesity,  and  in  continued  fev- 
ers, which  are  perhaps  the  conditions 
requiring  the  greatest  restriction  in  the 
matter  of  food,  the  tendency  is  toward 
a  less  rigid  and  uniform  regimen  than  for- 
merly. While  certain  general  consider- 
ations remain  in  force,  and  must  always 
do  so,  such  as  the  reduction  of  fat-mak- 
ing foods  in  the  obese  patient's  diet,  and 
the  cutting  down  of  starch  and  sugar  in 
that  of  the  diabetic,  so  many  circumstan- 
ces must  be  taken  into  account,  in  the 
case  of  any  given  person,  that  to  lay  down 
hard  and  fast  rules  for  general  use  is 
difficult  if  not  impossible. 

This  is  seldom  more  truly  the  case  than 
in  uric  acid  disorders,  where  the  condi- 
tion of  the  patient's  heart,  blood  vessels, 
kidneys,  digestive  organs,  body  weight, 
and  many  other  circumstances  may  play 
their  part  in  bringing  about  the  situa- 
tion; and  the  person  who  has  been  told 
or  becomes  convinced  that  he  has  in  his 
system  an  excess  of  this  mischief -making 
element  will  do  well  to  discuss  the  matter 
fully  with  a  good  physician,  have  a  die- 
tetic regimen  laid  out  for  him  with  as 
much  detail  as  possible,  and  then  abide 
by  it,  avoiding  indulgences  and  indis- 
cretions with  great  care,  if  he  desires 
fair  health  and  length  of  days. 

It  may  be  said,  however,  that  the  gen- 
eral opinion  of  the  medical  profession  is 
that  the  sufferer  from  uric  acid  disorders 


should  avoid  eating  heavily  of  meats  or 
sweets,  and  live  largely  upon  farina- 
ceous foods  and  fresh  vegetables,  omit- 
ting entirely  from  his  diet  any  article 
that  is  known  to  disagree  with  him, 
and,  in  most  cases,  all  forms  of  alcohol. 
The  red  meats,  which  are  supposed  to  be 
'  the  worst  offenders,  produce  their  evil 
effects  chiefly  by  means  of  the  ''extract- 
ives*' which  they  contain;  these  extract- 
ives are  what  give  the  fine  flavor  to  the 
meat,  and  to  beef  tea  and  beef  extract. 
Boiled  meats  have  been  found  to  agree 
better  with  patients  troubled  with  exces- 
sive uric  acid  than  those  that  have  been 
roasted  or  fried,  as  the  extractives  are 
pretty  well  removed  by  boiling.  It  does 
not  do  to  reduce  the  proportion  of  nitro- 
genous food  allowed  to  a  patient  too 
greatly,  as  a  sufficient  amount  is  required 
by  the  body  to  compensate  for  the  con- 
stant combustion  of  such  material  that 
goes  on  as  long  as  life  continues.  Even 
in  health,  however,  far  less  is  needed  in 
mature  life  than  during  the  period  of 
growth,  and  less  again  by  those  who  lead 
a  sedentary  life  than  by  those  engaged  in 
active  physical  work.  Moreover,  nitro- 
gen may  be  supplied  to  the  system  in 
other  forms  than  meat,  foods  of  this  class 
including  also  eggs,  milk,  cheese,  fish, 
poultry,  nuts,  and  some  of  the  vegetables 
and  grains.  Most  mature  Americans  of 
the  well-to-do  classes  are  heavy  meat 
eaters,  and  it  would  be  well  for  the  health 
of  this  and  future  generations,  if  the  pres- 
ent almost  prohibitive  prices  of  the  good 
cuts  of  meat  might  lead  to  a  general  de- 
crease in  the  use  of  this  sort  of  food.  At 
all  events,  the  person  showing  signs  of 
uric  acid  disorder  will  make  no  mistake 
in  cutting  down  the  quantity  of  meat  he 
eats  to  a  small  portion  once  a  day,  and 
avoiding  all  dishes  in  the  preparation  of 
which  meat  extracts  are  used.  Espe- 
cially is  this  important  in  cases  where 
there  may  be  the  slightest  suspicion  of 
any  weakness  of  the  kidneys,  which  are 
the  principal  excreting  organs  of  the 
body,  and  which  too  often  make  no  sign 
of  their  inadequacy  until  the  situation 


222 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


is  beyond  remedy. 

The  reason  for  restricting  the  amount 
of  sugar  eaten  ii  uric  acid  disorders  is 
that  the  taking  of  foods  sweetened  with 
cane  sugar  has  a  tendency  to  retard  the 
digestion  of  porteid  (or  nitrogenous) 
foods,  which,  of  course,  makes  the  meat 
eaten  by  an  individual  an  even  greater 
menace  to  his  well-being  than  it  would 
otherwise  be.  As  sweets  stand  only 
second  to  meats  in  popular  favor,  re- 
striction along  this  line  also  may  involve 
considerable  self-denial .  * '  Dieting  means 
going  without  everything  you  like," 
complained  a  patient  with  a  fondness  for 
good  living;  and  too  many  such  people 
come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  game  is 
not  worth  the  candle,  return  to  their 
self-indulgent  habits,  and  pay  a  heavy 
penalty  in  impaired  health  and  suffering. 

If  the  housewife  whose  household  con- 
tains a  person  showing  signs  of  uric  acid 
disorder  will  plan  her  daily  menu  so  as 
to  use  as  little  meat  as  possible,  and  will 
make  a  practice  of  using  fruit  for  dessert 
or  of  substituting  a  salad  for  the  usual 
sweet  course,  she  will  not  only  make  the 
patient  feel  his  restrictions  less,  but  wiU 
lay  a  foundation  for  better  health  on  the 
part  of  the  rest  of  her  family.  Not 
only  may  she  use  poultry,  game,  fish  or 
shell  fish  for  the  piece  de  resistance  of  a 
meal,  but  modern  cook  books  and  domes- 
tic magazines  will  furnish  her  with  num- 
berless suggestions  for  "dishes  with  meat 
value,'*  which  may  serve  as  occasional 
substitutes.  Fried  foods  and  rich  made 
dishes,  however,  being  difficult  of  diges- 
tion even  for  the  healthy,  should  not  be 
given  to  patients  with  uric  acid  troubles, 
even  for  the  sake  of  varying  a  restricted 
diet. 

A  good  nourishing  soup  may  well  form 
a  substantial  part  of  the  dinner  menu, 
requiring  less  of  a  hearty  sort  to  follow 
it  than  the  few  spoonfuls  of  light  bouillon 
or  consomme  which  does  little  beyond 
exciting  the  digestive  fluids  to  greater 
action.  Such  soups  should  not  contain 
much  fat,  and  are  better  made  from  vege- 
tables,   fresh    fish,    oysters,    clams,    or 


chicken,  than  from  meat.  Cream  soups 
are  especially  valuable  in  cases  where  the 
taking  of  considerable  milk  is  recom- 
mended. 

In  summer,  when  fresh  vegetables  are 
cheap  and  abundant,  there  need  be  little 
difficulty  in  varying  the  bill  of  fare,  as 
there  is  seldom  much  restriction  along 
this  line,  and  vegetable  dishes  are  accept- 
able to  almost  everyone.  During  the 
winter,  although  the  variety  is  less,  it  is 
well  to  have  vegetables  play  as  large  a 
part  as  possible  in  the  menu,  and  those 
staple  canned  articles  that  are  known 
to  be  packed  by  a  reliable  house  may  be 
used  to  supplement  the  resources  of  the 
market.  A  few  vegetables,  however,  are 
frequently  forbidden  to  the  uric  acid 
sufferer,  chiefly  because  they  contain 
oxalic  acid,  which  is  nearly  related  to 
uric  acid ;  among  these  are  rhubarb,  aspa- 
ragus, and  tomatoes,  all  of  which,  unfor- 
tunately, are  very  popular  members  of 
the  vegetable  kingdom.  Sweet  potatoes 
and  mushrooms  are  also  often  found  on 
the  forbidden  list. 

With  regard  to  the  use  of  fruit  in  excess 
of  uric  acid,  authorities  differ  consider- 
ably, but  nearly  all  agree  in  allowing 
apples,  pears,  and  peaches,  raw  or  cooked 
and  oranges  and  pineapples,  and  in  for- 
bidding such  acid  fruits  as  strawberries, 
which  will  often,  even  when  taken  in  the 
most  moderate  quantity,  precipitate  an 
attack  in  a  gouty  patient.  Fruits  con- 
taining large  quantities  of  sugar,  such  as 
grapes,  prunes,  and  figs,  are  usually  pro- 
hibited, and  all  cooked  fruits  are  gener- 
ally directed  to  be  prepared  without  su- 
gar, as  sugar  combined,  with  fruit  acids 
undergoes  in  the  digestive  canal  a  fer- 
mentative process  that  is  considered  to 
have  injurious  effects.  Dried  fruits 
should  not  be  used  in  the  diet  of  these 
patients. 

Farinaceous  foods  may  in  a  large  pro- 
portion of  cases  of  uric  acid  disorder  form 
a  very  considerable  part  of  the  diet. 
Cereals  of  almost  all  kinds  may  be  al- 
lowed, and  the  eating  of  bread,  when  not 
too  fresh,  and  especially  graham,  rye, 


DIET  IN  URIC  ACID  DISORDERS 


223 


or  whole  wheat  bread  or  rolls,  is  seldom 
much  restricted  in  uncomplicated  cases. 
Crackers  of  the  unsweetened  varieties, 
macaroni  and  spagetti,  rice  and  com 
meal,  diy  and  milk  toast  all  come  under 
the  head  of  farinaceous  foods,  and  are 
wholesome  and  nourishing. 

If  su^ar  is  diiected  to  be  almost  entiiely 
cn.itted  from  the  diet,  and  yet  the  patient 
has  a  craving  for  sweet  desserts,  simple 
milk  puddings,  blanc-mange,  and  jellies, 
sweetened  with  saccharin  or  sweetina, 
substances  derived  from  coal  tar  and 
many  times  sweeter  than  any  form  of 
sugar,  are  usually  permitted.  Honey 
and  milk  sugar  are  considered  less  injur- 
ious than  cane  sugar. 

Champagne,  sweet  wines,  liquors  of  all 
kinds,  and  even  cider  are  held  to  be  mis- 
chievous when  admitted  to  the  diet  of  a 
person  with  uric  acid  trouble,  and  the 
use  of  any  form  of  alcohol  is  generally 
strictly  prohibited,  except  in  cases  of 
elderly  or  debilitated  patients  for  whom 
stimtdation  is  absolutely  necessary,  when 
whiskey  is  most  often  ordered.  Many 
authorities  forbid  the  use  of  coffee  or 
cocoa,  but  allow  weak  tea,  if  taken  with- 
out sugar.  Unlimited  milk  is  usually 
allowed,  unless  it  is  known  to  disagree 
with  an  individual;  malted  milk  is  agree- 
able and  nourishing,  and  buttermilk, 
which  is  supposed  to  exert  a  particularly 
beneficial  effect  on  intestinal  digestion, 
is  high  in  favor  with  the  medical  pro- 
fession. Cereal  coffee  is  harmless,  if 
taken  without  sugar,  and  toast  water, 
hot  or  cold,  is  agreeable  to  some  people. 
Many  persons  drink  far  too  little  water, 
and  very  few  drink  it  to  excess,  except 
those  who  wash  down  the  half -masticated 
solids  of  their  meals  with  glass  after  glass 
of  iced  water,  chilling  the  stomach  and 
further  retarding  digestion  by  over- 
diluting  the  gastric  fluids.  While  the 
modem  view  of  drinking  at  meals  re- 
gards the  taking  of  a  reasonable  amount 
of  fluid  as  non-injurious,  indulgence  in 
large  quantities,  and  especially  when  ice- 
cold,  is  unquestionably  contrary  to  the 
laws  of  health.     Plenty  of  pure  water 


taken  between  meals,  however,  is  neces- 
sary, in  order  to  keep  the  system  well 
flushed  out.  The  object  sought  in  drink- 
ing the  alkaline  waters  so  largely  used 
by  gouty  and  lithemic  patients  is  the 
counteraction  in  some  degree  of  the 
over-acid  reaction  of  the  blood.  Vichy, 
Londonderry,  and  Buffalo  Lithia  waters 
are  frequently  recommended;  but  it  is 
probable  that  the  benefit  derived  from 
them  is  to  a  considerable  degree  that  of 
drinking  a  pure  water,  as  the  amount  of 
lithium  they  contain  is  so  small  that  a 
great  quantity  of  water  would  have  to 
be  taken  to  introduce  an  appreciable 
amoimt  of  it  into  the  system,  A  more 
decided  result  along  this  line  is  obtained 
by  using  the  effervescent  lithium  tablets 
which  are  sold  by  all  pharmacists,  and 
which  may  be  added  to  a  glass  of  water 
and  taken  as  required. 

As  has  already  been  intimated,  it  is  a 
dangerous  procedure  for  a  person  suffer- 
ing from  excess  of  uric  acid  in  the  sys- 
tem to  attempt  to  treat  himself.  A 
hundred  different  conditions  may  exist, 
involving  entirely  different  indications 
for  treatment.  For  example,  if  obesity 
is  present,  eating  a  large  amotint  of  fat- 
producing  vegetables  and  farinaceous 
foods  is  not  to  be  recommended,  and  the 
diet  must  be  modified  accordingly.  If 
there  is  a  tendency  to  diabetes,  —  and  of 
this  the  patient  cannot  judge  for  him- 
self, —  starchy  foods  must  be  largely 
eliminated  from  the  menu. 

When  a  man's  automobile  shows  signs 
of  weakness  somewhere,  he  loses  no  time 
in  having  it  looked  over  by  a  man 
skilled  in  such  work,  and  if  he  is  wise 
he  will  realize  that  sjmiptoms  of  wear 
and  tear  or  of  disorder  in  his  bodily 
machinery  call  loudly  for  the  same 
expert  attention,  ignorant  attempts  to 
deal  with  the  situation  being  as  provoca- 
tive of  disaster  in  the  one  case  as 
in  the  other.  When  a  person  comes 
of  a  gouty,  rheumatic,  or  lithemic  fam- 
ily, however,  he  may  himself  do  much  to 
avert,  his  own  day  of  trouble,  by  mod- 
eration in  eating  and  drinking. 


HOIv<[B 
IIDEAS  <Si 
1eCoN°MIEi5 


Contributiona  to  ihia  deputment  wilt  be  gUdly  received.    Accepted  iteme  will  b« 
paid  for  at  reaaoneble  ratea. 


My  "Company"  Salad  Dressing 

THE  telephone  bell  rang  insistently, 
and  as  I  hastened  to  pick  up  the 
receiver  I  recognized  a  note  of  anxiety 
in  a  voice  familiar  to  me. 

"Oh,  Marion,  is  that  you?  You  were 
so  long  coming  to  the  'phone  I  was  afraid 
you  were  out.  I'm  in  an  awful  dilem- 
ma —  help  me,  please.  There's  not  an 
egg  to  be  had  around  here,  and  Will's 
mother  is  coming  to  lunch  —  oh,  don't 
laugh,—  it's  really  serious.  How  can  I 
put  a  ready-made  mayonnaise  on  my 
salad?  You  know  how  opposed  she  is 
to  eating  anything  not  strictly  home- 
made, and  she  will  be  sure  to  ask  me  if 
I  made  the  dressing.  What  am  I  to  do? 
You  can't  make  mayonnaise  without 
eggs,  can  you?" 

"Not  mayonnaise  —  "  said  I,  prompt- 
ly. "But,  Ruth,  I  seldom,  in  fact,  never, 
since  my  trip  abroad,  use  a  mayonnaise 
dressing  on  anything  —  " 

"Ob.  I  know,"  interrupted  Ruth,  a 
little  excitedly,  "You  do  make  delicious 
French  dressings,  but  I  never  have  any 
luck  with  them.  I  have  tried  different 
ways  —  using  the  egg-beater,  or  a  silver 
fork,  and  either  I  don't  get  the  ingre- 
dients chilled  just  right  or  something 
is  the  matter,  for  it  never  gets  smooth. 
I'm  afraid  to  try  that." 

"Listen,  Ruth,"  I  tried  to  be  patient 
with  this  friend  of  mine  who  was  always 
excited  when  her  in-laws  came  to  dine. 

"There  is  nothing  nicer  than  a  French 
dressing.     When  properly  made  it  has  a 


subtle,  epicurean  taste  which  places  a 
mayonnaise  almost  in  the  plebian  class. 
Have  you  some  good  —  really  first-class 
olive  oil?  Fine!  Put  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  in  a  bottle.  A  small  —  about  half- 
pint  bottle  is  a  good  size  —  yes,  a  BOT- 
TLE, I  know  what  I  am  talking  about, 
don't  interrupt  me  till  I've  finished. 
Then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  the  verj' 
best  vinegar;  spiced,  if  you  can  get  it, 
is  fine.  And  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  dash  of  something  —  paprika,  I 
often  use.  Of  course,  if  your  vinegar  is 
spiced,  you  may  omit  that.  Now  Ruth, 
cork  your  bottle  tightly  and  shake! 
That's  all.  Your  dressing  is  made. 
Yes,  it's  the  way  I  always  do,  and  I  keep 
the  one  bottle  for  the  purpose,  and  as  it 
is  an  expensive  little  thing  which  came 
originally  from  abroad  with  some  for- 
eign decoction  in,  I  have  no  compunc- 
tions at  all  about  putting  it  right  on  the 
table.  We  like  to  dress  our  own  salad. 
"That's  all,  my  dear.  Now  get  your 
lettuce  hearts  and  a  couple  of  sound, 
ripe  tomatoes,  with  some  chopped  celery 
or  part  of  a  green  pepper,  both  for  looks 
and  taste,  and  you'll  have  a  salad  that 
will  tempt  the  palate  of  not  only.mother- 
in-laws,  but  any  chance  visitor  who  may 
happen  in.     Good-by  and  good-luck!" 


Eating  Or  Dining? 

TO-DAY  Lucia  came  to  me  all  aglow 
with  an  important  discovery  to 
impart:    "Can   it   be  that  it  is  only  in 


HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 


225 


our  own  family  and  at  our  own  table 
that  our  mental  differences  are  so  plainly 
accentuated  and  set  forth?** 

** Where  were  you  last  night,**  I  asked 
with  the  privilege  of  an  old  acquaintance, 
''did  you  take  dinner  at  Laidley*s?" 

''Well,"  she  replied  with  a  smile,  "I 
cannot  say  that  I  took  dinner  or  that  I 
merely  ate  with  them,  for  I  realize  that 
it  was  more  than  just  eating,  it  was  din- 
ing in  the  fullest  sense  of  the  word. 
For  'there's  a  difference.'  ** 

"That  sounds  interesting,**  I  inter- 
posed, "come,  tell  me  more  about  this 
eating  or  dining,  rather.** 

"Perhaps  I'm  mistaken,  but  I  consider 
that  one  cannot  be  said  to  dine  when  the 
tablecloth  is  crooked,  and  the  centerpiece 
not  above  reproach,  and  no  flowers,  not 
even  a  tiny  bunch  of  them,  and  everyone 
of  the  family  talking  their  own  hobby  at 
table,  as  it  is  at  home.  My  brothers 
talk  athletics,  and  the  feminine  members 
talk  dress,  mostly;  father  is  usually  silent, 
and  we  never  seem  to  have  one  thought 
in  common  as  a  -family.  If  I  start  to  tell 
an  anecdote,  that  I  think  might  be  an 
agreeable  change,  nobody  listens,  or  I 
find  that  they  have  raced  through  the 
meal  and  are  leaving  the  table.** 

"Well,  last  night  at  Laidley*s  every- 
thing was  different;  the  table  was  well- 
ordered  and  appointed,  though  I,  as 
Margaret's  friend,  was  the  only  guest, 
and  we  had  a  leisurely  meal  with  a  little 
interesting  conversation  thrown  in  as  a 
side  dish  as  it  were ;  everything  said  was 
good  and  every  member  of  the  family 
took  an  intelligent  part  in  whatever  was 
being  discussed,  and  every  one  who  spoke 
was  given  attention  and  consideration  by 
the  others.  Now  I  know  why  I  am  not 
as  clever  as  Margaret  at  repartee,  and 
why  she  knows  so  much  of  political  ques- 
tions and  impersonal  problems.  Her 
father  is  a  member  of  the  council,  and 
when  he  and  her  brother  discussed  civic 
measure,  everyone  listened  or  gave  an 
opinion.  Do  you  know  that  I  left 
there  quite  envious,  but  determined  that, 
if  ever  I  have  a  home  in  which  I  am  the 


presiding  genius,  I  will  never  let  meal 
time,  especially  the  last  meal  of  the  day 
degenerate  into  anything  as  material  and 
meaningless,  as  it  is  in  my  present  house- 
hold. At  my  table  there  shall  be  food 
for  the  mind  as  well  as  for  the  body;  we 
shall  dine  in  the  fullest  sense  of  the  word, 
and  shall  meet  upon  the  common  level 
of  an  interchange  of  thought  upon  some 
interesting    and    worth-while    subject. 

"Sermons  in  dishes,**  I  laughed  in 
answer.  But,  none  the  less,  I  felt  that 
my  friend  had  learned  something  highly 
important.  I  doubt  if  any  habit  of  our 
-lives  is  as  influential  for  our  immediate 
happiness  as  well  as  for  our  future  devel- 
opment as  the  tone  and  subject  of  our 
daily  conversation  at  meals. 

What  an  important  item  is  the  subject 
for  discussion  365  days  in  a  year;  bow 
beneficial  or  how  deteriorating  may  be 
the  effect  upon  the  mind  of  young  per- 
sons, be  they  members  of  the  family  or 
chance  guests.  For  the  rarity  of  good 
talk  is  perhaps  nowhere  so  conspicuously 
emphasized  as  at  dinner,  be  it  a  formal 
affair  or  a  family  gathering. 

Few  are  the  leaders  who  regard  the 
occasion  as  other  than  a  gastronomic  or 
a  sartorial  display,  to  be  seasoned  if  pos- 
sible with  enough  of  light  talk  to  impart 
an  air  of  gayety  to  the  function.  The 
mind,  it  would  seem,  were  a  neglegible 
quality,  not  worthy  of  consideration. 

Why  should  not  preparations,  on  the 
part  of  the  dinner  giver, — housekeeper 
or  hostess,  include  thought  as  to  what 
shall  be  said?  One  need  not  attempt  to 
give  the  occasion  a  conversazione  com- 
plexion but  merely  arrange  that  the  talk 
shall  be  generally  interesting  and  enter- 
taining. One  need  not  eliminate  origin- 
ality, which  is  spontaneous,  but  the  well- 
informed  and  tactful  hostess  not  only  can 
appear  to  good  conversational  advantage, 
but  she  can,  by  giving  thought  to  the 
matter,  make  each  guest  yield  the  best 
of  which  he  or  she  is  capable  for  the  en- 
tertainment of  the  company. 

As  at  present  exhibited  in  social  life, 
table  conversation  is  at  low  water  mark. 


226 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Formerly  a  social  gathering,  such  as  a 
dinner,  was  always  held  in  the  giver's 
own  home,  where  the  owner's  personal 
tastes,  as  lepresented  in  his  books,  pic- 
tures, and  hobbies,  gave  the  keynote  for 
subjects  of  converse,  or  suggested  appro- 
priate themes.  Now  the  scene  often 
shifts  to  the  hotel  and  rented  scenery, 
which  is  not  conducive  to  a  feast  of  rea- 
son and  flow  of  soul.  At  least,  this  is 
true  of  mixed  social  gatherings.  Men's 
dinners  usually  have  some  attic  salt 
with  which  to  season  the  dishes.  But 
to  have  the  real  and  piquant  quality,  it 
takes  the  virile  and  strong  ideas  of  the 
man,  coping  with  the  tact  and  imagina- 
tion of  a  clever  woman  to  produce  the 
finest  flower  of  conversation. 

The  art  of  good  table  talk  needs  for  its 
best  expression,  well-directed  knowledge 
gained  from  books  and  life,  lucidity  of 
statement,  a  fine  sense  of  htmior,  imagin- 
ation, and  a  well-modulated  and  clear 
voice.  These  acquirements  should  be 
upheld  as  desirable,  and  made  an  object 
of  ambition,  instead  of  being  wholly  ig- 
nored. The  time  and  place  to  begin  to 
assume  these  accomplishments  is  in  the 
home  and  at  the  family  table.  Then, 
indeed,  we  may  dine  happily,  a  great  ad- 
vancement over  ordinary  eating. 

M.  c.  K. 


Boneless  Bass  Easy 

ALTHOUGH  the  streams  of  Mary- 
land are  not  over-laden  with  mon- 
ster bass,  its  housewives  have  dis- 
covered a  trick  in  preparing  that  lus- 
cious fish  that  robs  it  of  its  greatest 
terror  —  bones.  No  one  need  hesitate 
at  enjoying  the  fish  because  of  them,  if 
the  cook  be  possessed  of  the  proper  re- 
cipe. Says  one  Maryland  authority, — 
"Every  bone  should  and  can  be  taken 
out  of  a  bass  before  it  is  fried.  The 
proper  way  is  to  lay  the  bass  on  a  board 
and  scrape  off  all  the  scales.  Then  run 
a  sharp  knife  all  along  the  back  on  both 
sides  close  to  the  fin.  Catch  the  fin  at 
the  tail  and  pull  it  out  and  it  will  rip  up 


all  along  the  back  and  out  will  come  all 
those  fin  bones. 

"It  is  just  as  easy  to  take  out  the  back- 
bone and  ribs.  Run  the  knife  along, 
right  on  the  ribs,  and  you  can  lift  the 
meat  right  off  and  there  you  have  the 
fish  in  halves  without  any  bones  in  it. 
Cut  these  halves,  each,  in  two  or  three 
places,  wash  them  in  cool  water,  salt 
and  roll  in  floiu*  and  com  meal.  Use 
crackers,  if  you  want  a  heavier  crust. 
Good  butter,  not  old,  and  fresh  bacon 
fat  should  be  used  for  frying  the  fish. 
Grease  the  skillet  when  it  is  smoking  hot 
and  lay  in  your  fish.  Don't  turn  over 
your  pieces.  Turn  the  skillet  around  by 
the  handle,  thus  keeping  the  meat  mov- 
ing right  around  the  fat.  And  you  will 
have  a  royal  dish."  c.  ^.  c. 

*     *     « 

No  More  Ants 

HAVE  you  been  bothered  with  ants? 
Measly,  little,  red  ones  that  get 
into  your  cupboard,  ice-box  and  various 
places  where  you  simply  cannot  have 
them? 

Try  this:  It  is  one  of  a  dozen  "sure- 
cures"  which  came  to  me  well  recom- 
mended, and  absolutely  the  only  one 
which  had  the  necessary  effect. 

Get  five  cents  worth  of  Tartar  Emelie 
from  your  druggist.  Mix  a  little  of 
this  with  about  one-fourth  as  much 
sugar  and  add  a  few  drops  of  water. 
Stir  this  with  a  match  or  tooth-pick  until 
well  mixed.  Be  careful  not  to  use  too 
much  water.  A  very  thick  paste  is  best. 
Put  drops  of  this  where  the  ants  are, 
also  make  "runs"  where  they  will  find 
them. 

A  good  plan  is  to  find  where  they  enter 
the  house.  A  little  watching  will  show 
this.  You  will  find  that  they  come  and 
go  in  a  general  direction  and  it  is  an 
easy  matter  to  trace  their  entrance  to 
a  porch  post,  porch  steps,  a  defective 
window  or  perhaps  a  cold  air  register. 
Put  your  paste  at  their  entrance  way 
and  you  will  find  your  ant  problem 
solved.  L.  s.  K. 


QUERIEiJ 


V6> 


THIS  department  is  for  the  benefit  and  free  use  of  our  subscribers.  Questions  relating 
to  recipes,  and  those  pertaining  to  culinary  science  and  domestic  economics  in  general, 
will  be  cheerfully  answered  by  the  editor.  Communications  for  this  department  must  reach  us  before 
the  first  of  the  month  preceding  that  in  which  the  answers  are  expected  to  appear.  In  letters  requesting 
answers  by  mail,  please  enclose  addressed  and  stamped  envelope.  For  menus  remit  Sl.OOl  Addresg 
queries  to  Janet  M.  Hill,  Editor.  Botton  Cooking -School  Maoazxni,  372  Boylston  St.,  Boston,  Massi 


Query   2059. — "Recipe   with    explicit   direc- 
tions for  making  and  rolling  a 'Jelly  Roll." 

Jelly  Roll 


3  eggs 

1 1  cups  of  sugar 
Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 
1  tablespoonful  of  lemon 

juice 
i  a  cup  of  cold  water 


1 J  cups  of  flour 

i    a    teaspoonful    of 

soda 
1     slightly    rounding 

teaspoonful  of  cream 

of-tartar 


Beat  the  eggs;  gradually  beat  in  the 
sugar,  and  grated  rind,  then  add  the  flour 
with  soda  and  cream-of-tartar,  alter- 
nately, with  the  water.  Bake  in  a  but- 
tered shallow  pan;  turn  upside  down 
upon  a  cloth  and  trim  off  the  four  sides 
(these  are  crusty  and  break  in  rolling  . 
Have  ready  a  tumbler  of  jelly  beaten 
quite  smooth  with  a  silver  fork.  Spread 
the  jelly  over  the  cake,  then,  keeping  the 
cloth  between  the  fingers  and  the  cake, 
roll  the  cake  over  and  over  having  the 
cloth  against  the  whole  width  of  the  cake 
will  keep  the  cake  from  cracking  while 
rolling).  At  last  roll  the  cake  in  the 
cloth.  The  pan  must  be  of  good  size 
that  the  sheet  of  cake  be  thin. 


Query   2060. — "How   may   Parsley   be   kept 
fresh  after  it  has  been  brought  from  market?" 

Keeping  Parsley 

Parsley  may  be  kept  a  long  time  in  a 
glass  of  water  in  the  same  manner  as  cut 
flowers  are  kept.  Change  the  water  each 
day  and  occasionally  clip  the  ends  of  the 
stems.  A  subscriber  suggests  keeping 
lettuce  and  parsley  in  a  cheese-cloth  bag 
near  the  ice;  this  does  very  well  but  the 


glass  of  water  set  in  the  ice-chest  is  more 
satisfactory.  Parsley  may  be  kept  a 
week  or  more  without  water,  in  the  re- 
frigerator, in  a  closed  receptacle  that 
excludes  air. 


Query  2061. — "Recipe  for  Lady  Fingers." 

Lady  Fingers 

lemon 


3  eggs 

J  a  cup  of  sugar 

Grated  rind  of  i  a 


f  a  cup  of  flour 


Beat  the  yolks  thick,  and  the  whites 
dry;  add  lemon  rind  to  yolks,  and  beat  in 
the  sugar  gradually;  fold  in  half  the 
whites,  half  the  flour,  the  other  half  of 
the  whites  and  the  rest  of  the  flour. 
Shape  on  a  buttered  baking  sheet,  in  nar- 
row strips,  about  one  inch  wide  and  four 
or  five  inches  long  and  dredge  with 
sugar.     Bake  about  ten  minutes. 


Query  2062.— "Recipe  for  Dill  Pickles." 

Dill  Pickles 

As  far  as  we  know  Dill  pickles  are 
made  as  any  pickles  save  that  branches 
of  dill  are  laid  in  between  the  layers  of 
pickles  to  give  them  flavor.  If  these 
pickles  are  made  by  a  process  of  fermen- 
tation similar  to  that  employed  for  sauer 
krout,  will  some  reader  kindly  supply  a 
recipe? 


Query  2063. — "Desserts  without  sugar.  What 
Soups  are  best  for  an  individual  unable  to  eat 
sugar?" 


m 


228 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Soups  for  Sugar- free  Diet 

Clam  broth,  boiiillon,  meat  broths, 
consomm6,  or  cream  soups,  made  of 
starch-free  vegetables,  thickened  with 
gluten  flour.  Among  the  cream  soups 
allowable  would  be  asparagus,  spinach, 
celery,  tomato,  cabbage,  lettuce  and 
string  bean. 

Desserts  Free  of  Sugar 

Custards,  jellies.  Bavarian  Cream  and 
similar  desserts  may  be  made  as  usual  by 
using  Sweetina  in  place  of  sugar. 


Query  2064. — "What  differences  are  occa- 
sioned in  bread  by  the  use  of  milk  and  of  water 
as  ingredients?" 

Differences   in    Milk   arid    Water 

Bread 

Bread  made  with  milk  is  more  nutri- 
tious than  bread  made  with  water. 
Bread  made  with  water  and  no  shorten- 
ing, well  kneaded,  gives  French  bread. 
This  is  a  rather  porous  bread  with  tough 
flinty  crust;  such  bread  is  sometimes 
called  true  bread,  and  bread  made  with 
milk  and  shortening  a  variety  of  cake. 
Bread  made  with  milk,  or  half  milk  and 
half  water,  is  thought  to  remain  moist 
and  in  good  condition  longer  than  bread 
made  with  water. 


Query  2065. — "Reciiies  for  Strawberry  Jam 
and  Strawrbery  Jelly." 

Strawberry  Jam 

For  each  pound  of  berries  take  three- 
fourths  a  pound  of  sugar.  Put  the  ber- 
ries, carefiilly  hulled, washed,  and  drained, 
over  the  fire.  Let  heat  slowly  till  they 
are  softened  throughout.  If  eight  quarts 
or  more  are  to  be  made,  pour  off  a  pint  of 
juice  and  can  for  some  other  use.  Break 
up  the  berries  with  a  slitted  wooden 
spoon,  then  add  the  sugar  and  let  cook 
until  thick.  Store  either  as  canned  fruit 
or  as  jelly. 

Strawberry  Jelly 

Apples  or  currants  should  be  added  to 


strawberries,  if  a  satisfactory  jelly  is  to 
be  made.  As  apples  are  not  in  season  in 
strawberry  time,  it  is  best  to  can  the 
strawberry  jtiice  without  sugar  and  make 
up  the  jelly  when  apples  are  plenty. 
Prepare  the  apple  juice  in  the  usual  man- 
ner. Use  one  pint  of  strawberry  juice 
to  three  pints  of  apple  juice  and  three- 
fourths  a  cup  of  sugar  to  each  cup  of 
fruit  juice.  Cook  the  apple  and  straw- 
berry juice  together  about  fifteen  min- 
utes; add  the  sugar  made  hot  on  plates  in 
the  oven,  cook  two  or  three  minutes 
longer  or  to  218°  F.  by  the  sugar  ther- 
mometer. Have  the  glasses  on  a  cloth  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water.  Fill  the  glasses  at 
once.  Skim  during  the  cooking  as 
needed.  Raspberries  may  be  used  in  the 
same  manner. 


Query  2066. — "Sauce  for  Broiled  Live  Lob- 
ster; it  looks  like  melted  butter,  but  there  seem 
to  be  other  ingredients  in  it." 

Sauce  for  Broiled  Live  Lobster 

Melted  butter  without  other  ingredi- 
ents is  often  used.  At  other  times  lemon 
juice,  paprika,  chopped  parsley,  etc.,  are 
added. 


1  cup  of  thick   sour 
milk 

2  eggs 


Query  2067.— "Why  do  Waffles  made  with 
sour  or  buttermilk  lack  crispness?  Recipe  for 
Waffles." 

Waffles  with  Sour  or  Buttermilk 

1  i  cups  of  flour 

i  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 

\  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter 

Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients;  add 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  beaten  and  mixed 
with  the  sour  milk,  and  the  melted  but- 
ter; mix  all  together  thoroughly,  then 
fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  dry. 
Rich  milk  (butter  fat)  and  shortening 
make  waffles  crisp. 


Query  2068. — "Recipe  for  English  Muffins.  * 

English  Muffins 

Soften  a  yeast  cake  in  half  a  cup  of 
lukewarm  water.     Add  this  to  a  cup  of 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


230 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


scalded-and-cooled  milk,  into  which  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  have  been 
melted.  Add  also  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sifted 
bread  flour.  Beat  the  above  mixture  un- 
til it  is  very  smooth.  Then  cover,  and 
set  to  rise.  When  the  sponge  is  light, 
beat  into  it  about  two  cups,  or  two  and 
one-fourth  cups,  of  flour,  continuing  the 
beating  some  few  minutes  (eight  or  ten), 
to  make  a  tough  batter.  Cover,  and  let 
stand  until  again  light.  The  mixture  is 
now  ready  to  use,  or  it  may  be  cut  down, 
covered,  and  set  into  the  refrigerator  un- 
til morning.  When  ready  to  bake,  cut 
the  dough  into  twenty-four  pieces. 
Knead  these  with  floured  hands  or  on  a 
well-floured  board  (the  dough  is  rather 
soft).  Then  pat  them  to  the  size  of  the 
rings.  Have  the  board  well -floured,  and 
the  muffin  rings  well-buttered.  Put  the 
rings  on  the  board  and  the  dough  in  the 
rings,  and  cover  close  with  a  pan  or 
cloth.  When  the  dough  a  little  more 
than  half  fills  the  rings,  remove  the  rings, 
and  dough  with  a  spatula  to  a  well- 
heated  and  buttered  griddle.  Keep  the 
griddle  of  uniform  heat,  and,  when  the 
muffins  are  baked  on  one  side,  turn  muf- 
fins and  rings,  and  bake  the  other  side. 
When  the  muffins  are  baked,  cut  through 
the  crust,  then  tear  apart  wdth  the  fingers 
(as  a  cracker  is  split),  and  toast  the 
halves  over  a  bed  of  coals.  Spread  the 
rough  side  with  butter  as  soon  as  toasted, 
and  serve  at  once.  The  muffin  rings 
ised  for  this  recipe  were  two  and  three- 
fourths  inches  in  diameter.  Rings  of  a 
larger  size  may  be  used.  Toasted  muffin 
are  served  with  marmalade  and  tea  as  a 
light  lunch,  or  with  a  green  vegetable 
salad  and  cheese  as  a  salad  course. 


Query  2069. — "Recipes    for    Spiced    Peaches 
and  Candied  Orange  Peel." 

Spiced  Peaches 


7  lbs.  of  peaches 
5  lbs.  of  sugar 
1  pint  of  vinegar 


1  cup  of  water 
I  a  cup  of  stick  cinna- 
mon 
J  a  cup  of  whole  cloves 


Have  ready  a  syrup,  made  of  the  sugar, 
vinegar  and  water,  add  the  spices,  then 
add  a  few  of  the  peaches  with  one  or 
two  cloves  pressed  into  each;  let  cook  a 
moment,  turning  the  peaches  if  necessary 
to  soften  all  sides.  Set  the  peaches  in 
fruit  jars.  When  all  are  cooked  reduce 
the  syrup  and  with  it  fill  the  jars  to  over- 
flow.    Close  the  jars  as  in  canning  fruit. 

Candied  Orange  Peel 

Cut  the  peel,  removed  from  the  fruit 
in  quarter  sections;  in  strips  of  uniform 
thickness.  Let  cook  in  boiling  water 
until  very  tender.  Set  aside  until  the 
next  day.  Take  the  original  weight  of 
the  peel  in  sugar  with  enough  water  from 
the  peel  to  dissolve  it  (half  its  weight). 
Boil  and  skim;  add  the  peel  and  let 
cook  until  the  syrup  is  nearly  absorbed; 
pick  out  the  strips  of  peel  and  roll  them, 
while  hot,  one  by  one,  in  granulated 
sugar.     Let  dry  on  table  oil  cloth 


Query  2070. — *'Recipes  for  *Mixing  Mustard 
similar  to  the  prepared  mustard  sold  in  bottles/* 
and  for  "baking  beans  with  tomato  sauce.'* 

Bottled  Mustard 

To  half  a  cup  of  powdered  mustard 
add  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  then  stir  to 
a  thick  paste  with  boiUng  water.  For 
French  mustard,  use  vinegar  seasoned 
with  shallot,  trarragon  or  garlic,  in  the 
place  of  the  water.  The  above  are  gen- 
eral rules.  Dealers  putting  up  such 
specialities  have  formulas  for  the  same 
that  are  not  divulged  to  the.consimier. 

Beans  Baked  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Use  your  usual  formula  for  baking 
beans,  the  one  for  Boston  Baked  Beans 
being  preferred,  then,  when  occasion 
arises  for  replenishing  the  liquid,  add, 
each  time,  a  cup  of  tomato  puree  or  a 
cup  of  ordinary  tomato  sauce. 


Remove  the  skins  from  the  peaches. 


Query  2071. — "What  shall  I  give  my  college 
boy  for  food;  he  does  not  wish  meat  three  times 
a  day." 

Food  for  College  Boy 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


s 


HUB 

RA-KG-ES 


Hwe  Heat  on  Five  Sides 
of  the  Oven 

and  Savmt   Fael 
TbeHUBuaTwoFuel 
Range:   Coal  and  Gas 
Mar  be  furnished  with 

a  variety  of  SOLD  BY  LEADING  DEALEEtS 

SJpt^'i™",!!.  SMITH  &  ANTHONY  CO.,  BOSTON,  MUSS. 

Graves    Safety    Lighter  Maker*  a(   HUB  fUngu,  Haalmi  StoTsi,  FarnacM, 

XM  tM-  KU8  IMP  TDk  rmikW  5t»m  and  Hot  Water  Heateri 

Buy  advertised  Goods — do  not  accept  substitutes 


232 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Most  college  boys  eat  meat  too  freely ; 
meat  once  a  day  will  suifice  At  a  home 
table  it  ought  not  to  be  a  difficult  matter 
to  feed  a  college  boy  properly;  a  boy 
away  from  home  often  eats  meat  as  the 
only  food  that  is  cooked  satisfactorily. 
The  menus  for  a  week  in  each  months  as 
given  each  month  in  our  pages,  are  well 
suited  to  the  needs  of  college  boys.  Cer- 
eals, fruit,  eggs,  fish,  bacon,  bread  and 
rolls  for  breakfast,  meat,  vegetables  and 
a  sweet  for  dinner;  with  soup,  salad, 
bread,  cooked  fruit  at  supper  will  fur- 
nish the  needed  food  principles  and  give 
a  reasonable  variety. 


ly.  Drop  from  a  spoon  upon  a  buttered 
pan.  Bake  about  fifteen  minutes.  The 
spices  may  be  omitted. 


Query  2072 — "What  nuts  may  be  used  to  re- 
place meat  in  the  dietary?" 

Nuts  for  Meat 

Nuts  and  fruit  are  often  spoken  of  as 
the  natural  diet,  but  to  eat  nuts  freely 
without  digestive  disturbance,  the  teeth 
and  digestive  organs  must  be  in  a  per- 
fectly normal  condition.  Nuts  rich  in 
fat  and  protein  —  as  almonds,  Brazil 
nuts,  hazel  nuts,  walnuts  and  pine  ker- 
nels, wotdd  take  the  place  of  meat,  while 
chestnuts  would  replace  bread  and  pota- 
tato  or  other  starchy  food.  Nuts,  eaten 
in  quantity,  should  be  ground  in  a  mill 
or  pounded  in  a  mortar,  and  those  not 
accustomed  to  eating  them  should  begin 
with  the  varieties  that  seem  to  agree 
with  them  best.  After  a  time,  other  var- 
ieties may  be  tried. 


Query  2073. — "Reciixj  for  Bran  Cookies  suit- 
able for  a  child." 

Bran  Cookies  (New  York  Physi- 
cian) 

1  teaspoonf ul  of  ginger 

1  teaspoonful    of    cin- 
namon 

i    a    teaspoonful     of 
clove 

3  cups  of  bran 
J  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 

Sift  the  soda  and  spices  into  the  bran 
and  mix  thoroughly;  add  the  other  in- 
gredients, the  shortening  melted  over 
hot  water,  and  mix  all  together  thorough^ 


i  a  cup  of  sugar 
i  a  cup  of  molasses 
i  a  cup  of  milk 
i  a  cup  of  shortening 


Query  2074. — "V'iscogen  prepared  by  the  re- 
cipe given  in  the  magazine  works  successfully, 
why  does  its  use  render  the  whipping  of  cream 
such  a  simple  matter?" 

Viscogen  and  Thin  Cream 

That  cream  may  be  beaten  to  a  light, 
fluffy  texture,  it  must  be  of  a  certain 
density;  by  adding  sugar  of  lime  (or 
viscogen)  to  thin  cream,  its  density  is 
increased. 


Query  2075. — "Recipe  for  an  inexpensive  but 
delicate  soup  to  be  served  in  bouillon  cups  at  a 
luncheon  of  ten  covers." 

Kornlet  Soup 

In  a  double  boiler,  set  to  cook  one 
quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  Kornlet,  half 
an  onion  with  four  or  five  cloves  pressed 
into  it,  three  branches  of  parsley  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika.  When 
hot  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
smoothed  in  a  little  milk;  stir  constantly 
a  few  minutes,  then  cover  and  let  cook 
twenty  minutes;  remove  the  onion  and 
parsley  and  press  the  remainder  thru'  a 
fine  sieve.  In  the  meantime,  cook  two 
cups  of  tomato  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar  and  press  thru  a  sieve.  If  for 
comj^any,  this  much  can  be  done  early 
in  the  morning.  When  ready  to  serve, 
re-heat  each  mixture  separately,  adding 
salt  as  needed,  then  pour  the  two  mix- 
tures together  and  serve  in  cups  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  top 
of  each  portion. 


Query  2076. — "Recipes  for  a  dark  fruit  cake. 
not  too  rich,  and  cookies  made  with  molasses." 

Dark  Fruit  Cake 


i  a  cup  of  butter 

}  a  cup  of  brown  sugar 

i  a  cup  of  raisins,  seeded 

and  cut  in  bits 
J  a  cup  of  currants 
J  a  cup  of  citron  in  thin 

slices 
i  a  cup  of  molasses 


eggs 

a  cup  of  coffee 

cups  of  flour 

a  teaspoonful  of  soda 
teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon 

a    teaspoonful    of 
mace 

a    teaspoonful    of 
clove 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  aubstiti 


234 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Mix  in  the  usual  manner,  adding  the 
fruit  to  the  creamed  butter  and  flour 
and  sifting  the  spices  and  soda  with  the 
floiir.  Bake  in  two  pans  about  one  hour 
and  a  quarter. 

Molasses  Cookies 


i  a  cup  of  molasses 
1  tekspoonful  of  soda 
i  a  cup  of  boiling  water 
}  a  cup  of  butter 


2  cups  of  flour 
i  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
1  tablespoo^ul  of  yel- 
low gingev 
i  a  teaspodi^ul  of  cin- 
namon ^: 

» 

Stir  the  soda  into  the  molasses;  melt 
the  butter  in  the  boiling  water;  turn  all 
into  a  bowl  and  stir  in  the  flour  sifted 
with  the  salt  and  spices;  add  more  flour  if 
needed,  but  keep  the  dough  as  soft  as 
can  be  handled.  Roll  out  only  a  portion 
of  the  dough  at  a  time.  Cut  into  rounds. 
The  recipe  makes  about  two  dozen  cook- 
ies. 


QuBRY  2077.— "In  making  bread  with  pota- 
toes, how  many  potatoes  should  be  allowed  to  a 
loaf  of  bread?"^ 

Potatoes  in  Bread 

We  have  not  used  potatoes  in  bread 
for  some  time,  but  judge  that  a  potato 
of  medium-size  would  be  ample  for  one 
loaf  of  bread. 


tatoes,  mix  thoroughly  with  the  hot  fat, 
then  press  firmly  over  the  bottom  of  the 
pan.  Let  stand  to  brown,  then  fold  as* 
an  omelet  and  turn  upon  a  hot  dish. 


Query  2078. — "Kindly  give  suggestions  as  to 
the  best  diet  to  eliminate  rheumatism  from  the 
system." 

Diet  to  Cure  Rheumatism 

In  a  case  where  doctors  disagree,  who 
is  to  decide  ?  In  general,  avoid  meat  and 
sweets,  the  sweets  because  they  hinder 
the  assimilation  and  excretion  of  the 
proteins  in  the  meat.  See  also  article  on 
another  page  of  this  issue  on  **Diet  for 
tJric  Add  Conditions." 


Query  2080. — "Recipes  for  Sour  and  Sweet 
Cucumber  Pickles." 

Sotir  Cucumber  Pickles 

Wash  the  cucumbers,  then  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  cover  with  cold  water. 
Use  a  generous  cup  of  salt  to  a  peck  of 
cucumbers.  The  next  day  drain,  rinse 
and  pack  i^to  fruit  jars,  or  simply  in  an 
earthen  crock.  Add  pepper  pods,  green 
or  red,  and  large  or  smadl  according  to 
the  receptacle  used.  Sprinkle  in,  also, 
a  few  whole  spices.  Cover  with  vinegar, 
scalding  hot.  Close  fruit  jars  as  in 
canning  fruit;  having  sterilized  the  jars 
before  packing  in  the  cuctmibers,  the 
pickles  will  then  keep  indefinitely.  For 
a  greener  pickle,  put  grape  or  cabbage 
leaves  over  and  under  the  cucumbers; 
scald  the  water  with  the  salt  and  pour 
over  them,  then  the  next  day  proceed 
as  above. 

Sweet  Cucumber  Pickles 

Prepare  as  sour  pickles,  except  add 
sugar  to  taste  to  the  vinegar,  when 
scalding  it.  Sprinkle  white  and  black 
mustard  seed,  pieces  of  horseradish, 
ginger  root,  green  and  red  peppers 
through  the  cans. 


^' 


Query  2079.—* 'Recipe  for  Hashed  Brown  Po- 
tatoes." 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes 

Chop,  fine,  six  or  eight  cold,  boiled 
potatoes,  and  season  as  needed  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Have  hot  in  a  frying  pan 
from  one-fourth  to  one-half  a  cup  of  fat 
cooked  from  fat  salt  pork;  put  in  the  po- 


REFRIGERATORS-ICE  BOXES 

and  all  places  where  meats  and  foods 

are  kept  should  be  regularly  disinfected 

and  purified  by  using 

Plaits  rblorides. 

JheOdorlessDiBiatbotanL 

Destroys  germs  and  foul  odors»  does  not 
permeate  the  food. 

Safe,  Efficient  and  Economical.  Soid  Everywhere 

HENRY   B.   PLATT 
42  Cliff  8tre«t.  N«w  York  City,  N.  Y. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Buy  advrrtiBed  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


Some  New  Ways  of  Serving 


By  Kate  Hudson 


THOUGH  the  German  house-mother 
may  pay  less  attention  to  the 
latest  cry  in  clothes  and  personal 
ladormnents  than  does  her  American  sis- 
•ter,  she  manages  to  follow  very  closely 
tthe  ever-changing  fashions  in  garnishing 
tend  serving  what  she  sets  before  her 
igueste.  Tomatoes  appear,  just  now,  to 
Iw  largely  used  in  garnishing  fish  and 
toasts  and  for  holding  all  sorts  of  unus- 
ual hors-d'oeuvres  The  newest  one  of 
the  latter  is  —  according  to  a  noted  Ber- 
lin hostess  who  is  also  a  notable  house- 
keeper —  caviar  filled  into  cups  com- 
posed of  large  tomatoes  of  uniform  size 
and  color  thoroughly  chilled;  as  is  the 
"Beluga,"  which  is  either  heaped  high 
above  the  tomatoes'  rim  or  flattened 
down  with  a  cover  formed  of  the  tomato 
bottom  with  a  bit  of  stem  for  handle. 


When  the  fish-course  consists  of  fillets- 
de-sole  or  other  fillets  these,  lightly  rolled 
in  scrolls,  are  also  served  standing  erect 
in  large  tomato  cups,  covered  with 
sauce  —  Hollandaise,  and  crowned  with 
two  shrimps  crossed;  and  where  larger 
fish  is  served  whole  it  is  placed  close  to 
one  rim  of  the  platter  to  admit  of  its 
other  half  holding  the  fish's  correspond- 
ing bulk  outUned  with  small  "sea-fruit," 
as  mussels,  prawns  or  shrimps  and  filled 
in  with  small  tomatoes  holdit^  minced 
trufi^es.  Another  very  popular  gar- 
nishing for  pickerel  or  salmon — also 
flllit^  up  the  space  on  the  platter  oppo- 
site the  fish  —  are  cucumbers  hollowed 
out  into  boats  filled  with  caviar;  or  a 
double  line  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  standing 
upright,  each  egg  belted  with  a  "ring" 
cut  from  a  big  tomato. 

Roast  meats  particulariy  that  German 
and  Austrian  favorite,  roast  veal,  are 
frequently  surrounded  with  tomato  cups 
filled  with  green  peas,  and  even  with 
fine-sliced  carrot  Uberally  topped  with 
the  parsley,  with  which  in  Germany  the 
latter  vegetable  is  always  prepared. 


The  little  daughter  of  a  prominent 
divine,  whom  it  would  be  cruel  to 
name,  was  recently  taken  to  her  father's 
churdi  for  the  first  time.  She  was, 
of  course,  intensely  interested  in  all 
that  went  on.  A  true  little  Yankee, 
her  first  remark  to  her  mother  on 
coming  out  was,  "Do  all  those  Uttle 
boys  in  nighties  get  paid  for  singing?" 
"Yes,  I  suppose  so,"  repUed  her  mother. 
"And  does  father  get  paid,  too?" 
"Yes."  Well,  I  shouldn't  think  they'd 
have  to  pay  him  much,  for  he  does 
nothing  but  talk,  and  he  just  loves 
to  do  that." 


In  every  kitchen  the  first  thing  to  be 
regarded  is  health. 


J  adTcrtited  Goodi  —  do  not  accept  lubstitutet 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


This  new  book  of  recipes 
by  Mrs.  Rorer  sent  free. 


MclLHENNVS 

TABASCO 

SAUCE 


MRS.  SARAH  TYSON  RORER  has  juat  pre- 
pared a  new  book  of  recipes,  hitherto  unpub- 
lished, in  which  will  be  found  directions  for  matdng 
many  unique  and  delectable  dishes,  and  other  infor- 
mation of  value  to  those  interested  in  good  cooking. 

This  new  book  of  Mrs.  Rorer's  will  be  sent 
free  to  anybody  anywhere  upon  request.  Just  send 
your  name  and  address  on  a  postcard  to  Depart- 
ment H-5,  Mcllhenny  Company,  Drexel  Building, 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Of  course  the  prime  purpose  of  this  new 
recipe  book  is  to  attract  more  favorable  attention 
to  our  Tabasco  Sauce,  and  to  promote  its  use  more 
widely  instead  of  dry  pepper  as  a  seasoning  for  all 
dishes  requiring  pepper. 

It  is  now  generally  admitted  among  cookery 
experts  that  pure,  unadulterated  liquid  Tabasco 
pepper  is  far  stiperior  to  cayenne  or  black  pepper 
because  of  intense  seasoning  power,  delicious 
flavor  and  wholesomeness. 

Mcllhenny's  Tabasco  Sauce  is  the  original  and 
only  genuine  liquid  Tabasco  pepper,  and  is  being 
used  to  great  advantage  by  famous  chefs  and  good 
housekeepers  throughout  the  civilized  world. 

It  is  more  wholesome  and  a  better  seasoning 
than  cayenne  or  black  pepper,  and  makes  a  most 
delightful  table  sauce. 

Order  a  bottle  from  your  grocer  today ;  and 
don't  forget  to  send  for  Mrs.  Rorer's  new  recipe 
book. 

McILHENNY  COMPANY,  Tkpt  HS 
Ih-exel  Building,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do.not  accept  lubstitutea 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 

The  Girl  Who  Cooked 

CaBdudei  fiom  page  205 

put  oS  the  task  as  long  as  she  could, 
but  she  really  must, she  knew, set  about 
applying  for  a  school  now. 

At  least,  one  afternoon,  with  a  sort  of 
Latimer  and  Ridly  expression,  as  Ted 
diagnozed  it,  on  her  face,  she  had  col- 
lected her  courage,  some  paper,  en- 
velopes, and  several  school  clerk's 
addresses,  and  was  grimly  preparing 
to  convince  them  of  the  peculiar  adap- 
tability of  her  talents  for  their  several 
schools,  wlen  the  Postman's  whistle 
came  like  a  welcome  summons. 

Everybody  tumbled  out  of  the  house, 
and  somebody  seized  the  budget,  and 
bore  it  in,  in  triumph. 

"Nan,  that's  partiality,"  Ted 
grumbled,  "I  believe  you're  Uncle  Sam's 
favorite  niece.  "Whew — here's  a  busi- 
ness-like envelope." 

"The  Homemaker,"  her  mother 
glanced  at  the  comer  of  the  envelope. 
"Why— Nan— it's  too  thin  to  be — Oh, 
do  you  think — " 

"Oh,  no,"  said  Nan  hastily,  "it's  only 
some  notice  or  other,  of  course.  She 
pulled  out  a  slender  blue  slip  of  paper, 
then  stared  at  it  with  a  dazed  expression 
in  her  eyes. 

"Mother,  take  it,  and  see  what  it 
says.  I  can't  be  seeing  straight.  Oh, 
quick!"  her  voice  shook. 

Everybody  clambered  to  look  over 
Mother's  shoulder. 

"Pay  to  the  order  of — "  began  Ted. 

"Three  himdred  dollars,"  shouted 
Keimeth. 

"Oh,  Nan!"  Lollipops  flew  at  her. 

"You've  won,  dear,"  her  mother  was 
smiling  at  her,  proudly. 

Nan's  eyes  shone.  College,  college, 
the  check  seemed  to  chant  joyously  at 
her.      C 

She  opened  her  lips  to  speak.  But  in 
that  instant  came  a  piercing  odor  from 
the  kitchen,  and  the  check  fluttered 
uimoticed  to  the  floor. 

"The  beans  are  burning,"  cried  Nan, 
and  vanished  through  the  door. 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


AVALC 

(Brand) 

TUN^ 

California's  Fish  D 

Serve  direct  from 
the  tin— garnish  with 
lettuce  and  slices  of 
lemon. 


— A  new  treat  from  CALI- 
FORNIA. 

— Something  different  and 
easy  to  serve — something 
everyone  will  like. 

— ^The  white,  tender  meat 
of  the  Tuna  Fish  caught 
in  the  deep  blue  Pacific, 
near  Catalina  Island,  Giti- 
fomia. 


AVALOrr  Brmud  TVNA  la  caroiuUr  cooked 
and  Moaaoaed,  aad  ia  ready  to  emt  Jnat  ts  1( 
«omra  from  the  tin.  Bat  you  may  prepare  II 
in  dlttereBt  waya  lo  aalt  different  occaaiona. 
Write  tor  our  booklet  ot  TVfTA  BECIPES  and 
in  the  memntime,  try  the  two  printed  beloM-, 


A  SIMPLE  SALAD 

Shnd  one  large  can  ot  AVALON  BRAND  TUNA, 
add  one  sinall  cup  chopped  celery  or  cucumber,  one 
tiblapooDful  Brated  onion,  mix  vith  mayonniins 
dreuiag.     Serve  on  lettuce  leavra  and  ga'aiah  with 


— This  delicately  flavored 
Tuna  meat  looks  and  tastes 
like  breast  of  chicken,  and 
can  be  served  either  as  fish 
or  meat. 

— Order  a  trial  can  from 
your  grocer. 


AVALON  TUNA  CROQUETTES 


rina'coiutBnt1y°lill   boiling,  add   one  can 
BRAND  TUNA  and  one  cup  finely  choi 


AVALON 
..,,i«d  boiled 

_. pepper,  form 

■umbs  and  fry  in  hot 


THE  VAN-THOMAS  COMPANY 


t  Eul  Second  Street 


LOS  ANGELES,  CAL. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do,not  accept  Bubstitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


A  Ranuma  Paily 

A  CALIFORNIA  tourist  whom  I 
know,  bfought  home  a  jar  of 
pickled  figs,  guava  jelly  and  other  things 
for  the  sole  purpose  of  giving  a  unique 
party,  and  it  certainly  was  an  interesting 
function.  It  may  be  given  by  ladies 
lately  returned  from  California  or  be 
prepared  in  compliment  to  those  wbo 
have  just  returned  from  the  land  of  sun< 
shine  and  flowers,  A  novel  gathering 
would  be  an  entire  company  of  people 
who  had  visited  California. 

The  decorations  may  be  a  blending  of 
Spanish  and  Indian  colors.  Navajo 
blankets  make  splendid  rugs,  as  well  as 
couch  covers;  smaller  bits  of  woven 
pieces  for  stand  covers  or  pillow  tops 
are  nice,  and  Spanish  fl^s  should  wave 
along  with  the  Stars  and  Stripes.  Large 
Indian  jars,  if  procurable,  should  hold 
sprays  of  the  yellow  mustard  or  yellow 
flowered  musk  and  red  geraniums,  and 
carnations  should  stand  in  brown  earthen 
ollas.  Flowery  June  is  a  favorable  month 
to  get  plenty  of  greenery  for  making  a 
bower  of  a  porch.  It  might  be  arranged 
somethii^  after  the  porch  on  Camulc>s 
ranch,  Ramona's  early  home.  Many  sou- 
venirs of  the  trip  may  be  utilized  either 
here  or  on  the  table,  which  should  show 
doilies  and  elaborate  centerpiece  of 
drawn  work. 

A  bowl  of  the  golden  California  poppy, 
resting  on  the  beautiful  webltke  lace, 
makes  a  gorgeous  center. 

The  place-cards  may  be  water  colors 
of  the  dainty  wild  flowers  of  the  state, 
or  tiny  Indian  sketches,  or  better  still, 
thin  orange  wood  cards  bearing  a  pic- 
ture of  the  Camulos  ranch  house. 

Small  dishes  of  pottery  may  hold  the 
nuts  and  bonbons,  which  are  in  appro- 
priate colors ;  these  later  may  be  given 
as  favors.  Abalone  shells  so  highly  pol- 
ished make  beautiful  receptacles  for  can- 
died fruit  and  jelly. 

It  adds,  if  a  guitar  player  can  be  se- 
cured to  play  during  refreshments,  or 
if  a  musical  friend  will  sing  several 
Spanish  love  songs.     A  very  desirable 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Some  Reasons  WHy 


Are  Better  TKan  OtKers: 

1.  Sliiffle  Damper  Control  (patented) 

The  greatest  improvement  ever  made  in  cooking  stoves.  One 
movement  of  this  damper  perfect^  r^;ulates  fire  and  ovea  Simply 
push  the  knob  to  "Kindle,"  ''Bake/'  or  "Check" — th*  Range  doem  the 
reat.  Damper  mistakes  common  to  the  two-damper  ranges  are 
imposable  with  this  range. 

2.  Two  Hods  in  the  Base 

e  deep  Hod  for  ashes  instead 
okl  clumsy  ash  pan.  It  is 
)  remove  wd  carry  without 
;.  The  other  Hod  is  fiH- coaL 
iatim  is  patented. 

le  Perfectly  Heated  Oven 

ne  ovens  are  too  hot  in  some 
places  and  too  cold  in  others. 
The  curved  cup-joint  oven 
of  Crawford  Ranges  heat  the 
in  every  part  alike.  No  colJ 
TM — no  Mcorching  tpott.  That 
\y  they  bake  better  than  other 


Gm  Oreni  if  deairsd — alaratad  (douUa) 
IT  end  ((infle).  Tli«se  oran*  are  a<dm; 
acplotioiu  are  impouibl*.  The  eod  oran 
■«■  broilsr  at  the  top,  which  •aves  tli« 
«<di  much  atooping. 

Ask  the  CKAWFOSD  A/teat  to  abotr 
yon  mnd  write  na  for  olrealtra 


WALKER  i  PRATT  MFG.  COMPANY,  31-35  Union  St,  Boston 

Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  ausblitut 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Patent  Ironing  Board  Cover 


Special  Feilares : 


Ns  TbcUb^. 

DoM  Net  riailaB. 

Fait    Cutar    With   FmIb^ 

Adwat^l*  to  mmx  Itamlmt    I 

DoM  Nol  Ldh  Ii>  rUck<    I 
BuaorlsBlllBBcr. 

iBBOvabl*   Trnciat    Shaata 
thai    may    ba    KaUsB-   , 
darad    OT   ■•pbcad   by   S 

»#««•■  Vtow     LaauVLllaTlBa,  T«»  VHw 

It  la  Iha  Baal  aad  Onty  IraiUad  Bftard  Covar  of  Iti 
hiad  OB  Ika  Haikal. 

■ada  kr  lasJBri  tedalkai 
»r  of  which  WltlalM 


■  Ida.  ol  etihar 


tin  Sanitary.    Ho« 
■heal!  on  your  board 


Mvaiwlr  tntcd  iif  haTinf  t 
tack  bold  on  ihe  old  board 
•—  "-imaalra  and  r*prat 


larraw  emli  a(  the 
/tx. 

•V  about  tbe  hoUKhold 


low-a-dayi  ia  toward 
t  TDur  blanket*  and 

'—  -Matt 


mother  tackinc  proces* 


a  tiring 


■Doatbouwwh 

Sent  txxtpald  to  Tour  addren 
oa  receipt  of  SZ-AO  by  tbe 

JUUEN  MANUFAGTURIN6  CO.,  iRC,   ELMIRA,  N.  Y. 


Verse  of  the  Vegetable  Vendor 

Through  the  lanei  and  alleyi  narrow 
Trudges  he  with  brimming  barrow, 

Where  leaf-filtered  sun  streams  down 
On  the  streets  of  Trenton  town. 


"Won't  you  buy  my  red  tomatoes. 
Corn  and  carrots  and  potatoes. 

Fresh  and  fancyl    If  you're  wise 
You  will  use  their  ears  and  eyes. 

When  for  cabbages  you're  paying 
Don't  forget  this  wise  old  saying; 

('Tis  a  truth,  though  said  in  fun — } 
Two  heads  better  are  than  one. 

Some  onions  purchased  at  the  start 
Might  serve,  perhaps,  to  make  yon  smart; 

My  melons  all  are  fine  and  sweet, — 
My  mustard  greens  cannot  be  beet 

Try  this  big,  late-blooming  posy. 

Tastier  than  a  scented  rosy. 
Queen  of  all  my  garden  bower — 

This  blossom  is  the  canliflowerl" 

Thus  he  sauntereth  and  singetfa. 
And  reluctant  coin  he  wring eth 

From  the  housewives,  up  and  down. 
Throughout  peaceful  Trenton  town. 

IvA  Whitman  Robinsom. 


It  happened  in  Toronto, 

Scene,  the  First  Precinct  Police- 
Station.  DriscoU  was  making  out  his 
report.  He  began  two  or  three  times, 
and  tore  up  the  paper  and  started  afresh. 

"What  are  you  workin'  at?"  said  the 
man  at  the  desk.    "Writing  a  letter?" 

"Naw !"  said  Driscoll.  "There  b  a 
dead  horse  over  on  Cholmondelay  Street, 
and  Rule  Seventeen  says  I  have  to  re- 
port it  in  writing." 

And  Driscoll  chewed  the  end  of  the 
penholder,  groaned  and  leaned  over  the 
desk  like  a  cuttlefish  seeking  its  prey. 

"How  do  you  spell  it,  anyway?"  said 
Driscoll. 

"What?" 

"Cholmondelay  Street." 

"Well,  the  same  old  way,"  answered 
the  man  at  the  desk. 

Pretty  soon  Driscoll  threw  down  the 
pen,  got  up  and  put  on  his  uniform. 

As  he  went  out  of  the  door,  the  desk- 
man  called,  "Where  are  you  goin',  Dris- 
coll?" 

"I'm  goin'  to  drag  that  dead  horse 
around  the  comer  into  King  Street  l" 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS ' 


Every  quality  that  makes  table  glass   so 
beautiful,  so  appealing,  is  to  be  found  in 

'^       Heisey's  m  Glassware 

The  graceful  shapes  and  harmonious  designs  make  ii 
the  glassware  that  has  tnje  distinciion. 


■  NO  PLATE  NO.  J03 


So  good,  you  can  use  il  for  important  Forma]  occasions 
— so  inexpensive,  you  can  enjoy  it  every  day.  Sold 
by  the  best  dealers  everywhere.  Write  for  "Table 
Lss  and  How  to  Use  It."  This  book  shows  a  great 
variety  of  styles  and  patterns,  and  gives  suggestions  to 
help  you  select  the  table  glass  that  is  most  appropriate 
and  most  beautiful. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitute* 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Exquisite  Desserts 

and 

Delicious 
Ice    Cream 

Hade  With 

Junket  Tablets 

Yonr  KTOcer  or  droggitt  lells  them 
or  we  moil  povtpaid  ten  tablets  to 
make  ten  quarts  for  10  cents  and 
give  you  the  charming  brochure 
**  Junlret  Dainttea  "  free. 

CHR.    HANSEN'S 
LABORATORY 

Box  2507.  Little  Falls,  N.  Y. 


Food  Flavors 

Are  a  study  in  them- 
selves. We  have  spent 
years  blending  herbs 
and  apices  and  making 
extracts. 

Mapleine 

!•  om  -product.  It  is  a  pura 
ve^taUe  cHeace.  Use  it 
in  aoupt,  Mucea,  candiea 
«nd  deswrtB.     It 

FLAVORS  FOOD 


OROCBRS   SELL   IT 


3Se  3-m.  hottU 
{SOc  m  Cana^ 


CHESCEIT  HF6.  CO.,    (Dipt.  R.)    SEtTTLE,  WASH. 


Appreciation 
The  Boston  Cooking  School  Mag.  Co., 

Thank  you  for  the  sample  of  a  perfect 
cooking  magazine.  I  am  a  woman  just 
past  her  75th  birthday,  a  graduate  of 
Boston  University  School  of  Medicine, 
who  has  practiced  her  profession  over 
30  years  in  Chicago,  and  who  was  bom 
of  a  mother  who  believed  in  generous 
and  proper  feeding, — all  this  to  vouch 
for  my  opinion  of  the  magazine  being 
worthy  of  consideration.  Now  I  am  Uv- 
ing  a  sane  life  in  this  perfect  climate,  in 
a  pocket  of  these  beautiful  mountains, 
but  I  am  still  talking  cooking  enthusiasti- 
cally. I  have  felt  very  certain  for  years, 
that  if  the  world  were  always  properly 
fed  there  would  be  an  end  to  Tuberculo- 
sis, and  there  would  have  been  no  begin- 
ning to  "Hook-worm". 

Cordially  yours, 

S.  G.  P. 

[  enclose  $1.00  for  magazine. 


The  change  from  the  loud  and  strid- 
ent and  plush-covered  to  the  quiet  and 
simple  in  manners,  housekeeping  and 
art  is  owing  more  to  the  influence  of  Wil- 
liam Morris  than  to  any  other  man  of 
the  century.  Morris  said :  "We  need 
fewer  things,  and  want  them  better.  All 
your  belongings  should  mean  something 
to  you.  Every  act  of  life  should 
signify." 


During  the  Civil  War  a  Union  general 
came  up  with  a  small,  straggling  body  of 
his  own  cavalry,  wading  through  a  foot 
of  soft,  sticky  mud.  As  the  general  ap- 
proached, the  troopers  were  drawn  up 
to  salute  him;  and  in  the  midst  of  the 
floundering  movement  a  man  was  thrown 
violently  from  his  horse  into  the  black, 
sticky  mass.  He  crawled  to  his  feet,  a 
sorry  spectacle.  The  general,  smother- 
ing a  laugh,  rode  up  to  him.  "What's 
the  matter,  my  man?  Are  you  hurt?" 
the  general  asked,  kindly.  "Naw,"  re- 
plied the  man,  turning  around  his  grimy 
face.  "I  ain't  hurt  none;  but,  if  I  ever 
love  a  country  agin,  you  can  kick  mef" 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


BANAN 
NUTRO 


A  FRUIT  suBsrnvra 

FOR  COFFEE 


For  IboM  whi   {  wlU  nal 


III 


.  } 

Hat  J 


drlok  CbH^o 


MADE  FROM  MUSA  BANANAS  GROWN  BY 

THE  UNITED   FRUIT  COMPANY 

It  coat^n*  B3  %  CarBohrdrmtM  thkt 
prodnca  anargj 

It  is  Justly  called  the  King  of  Substitutes 
and  IS  puticularly  beneficial  to  children 
as  well  as  grown-ups.  It  is  inexpensive 
and  quickly  made. 

Sand  39  canli  lor  a  pannd  lln  Ihat  coataina  71  cd^i 
Wa  pay  axpiMaala 

PANAMA  BANANA  FOOD  CO. 

192  FRONT  ST.,  NEW  YORK 


Yott  Can  Equal  tbe 
Gnat  Wizardi  of  Cookor 

The  trtDmphi  of  the  Prcnchchcf,  who  Impaita'tlw  moct 
HTorr  mod  exouliite  llaior  to  Ibe  homM«tdl*he*Dar  be 
procM;  dDpliCBtcd  In  ronr  own  kitcheo  br  the  dm  of 

KITCHEN  BOUQUET 


pcttniiKbrowi 
S^Bd  for  « 


. e  butinf  of 

h.  and  the  mult  will  bo 
id  a  keen,  piquant  de- 
compliihed  chef  cmnnot 
■pb  BotUo 


The  rtO-it  HU.  C*..  iP  CHrtM  Aw.,  Wl  BofakM.  H.  J. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  subetitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


BEKE  IS  A  NEW  SAtAD  FOE  YOUE 
SUNDAY  DIHNBE.    IT'S  HADE  WIIB 

KNOX 
G£rATlN£ 

iuk  1  envdope  Kaoz  OdBtlna  fn  I  cup  coM  water 
I  rolDDto.  DiBolTc  In  1 H  cuiw  boilinc  water.  Add 
uieeof  three  lemoaslf  yon  uh  ths  pUlo  packtM 
.oruHpartortba  copcentrsled  Lemon  Juice  In  tha 
Uidalatcd  p*clca(s  Kuked  In  Hcup  witar)  and  M 
■.t>0  aurar.  When  Jellr  In  b(«inn<nK  tout  pot  in  ona 
'  "  ^'t  n^"P  out  peata.  amall  piacaa 


Individual  m< 


ir  other 


"P^rin"' 


manhmalJawiorntJt  meati. 

Smd  for  thi*  FREE.IUcipt  Book 
Anllltutratad  book  of  recipe* In  Deaaaria,  JallUa, 
Poddlnga.    Camdlaa,    Ica'CraBaa,    SfaMbala, 
Salada,  ale,  aent  PREB  for  rour  Orocer'a  name. 

PM  taitifiU  for  Ic  ttamp  and  groar't  nam. 

CHARLES  B.  KNOX  CO. 

7  Knox  Ave.  JohDilowti,  N.  Y. 


Better  bread  and  mora 
is  a  good  modem  ideaL 

of  it-tliat 

Fleischmann's 

Yeast 

help*  it  to  come  true. 
easy  to  make  good  braad 

Our new 

Potatoes  made  their  way  very  slowly 
into  popular  favor  in  England,  and  were 
far  too  expensive  to  be  seen  on  the  table 
of  any  but'  the  richest  people.  In  the 
reign  of  James  I.  their  price  was  two 
shillings  a  pouiid.  Soon  after  the  Res- 
toration the  government  and  the  Royal 
Society  tried  to  encourage  the  cultiva- 
tion ;  but  progress  was  slow,  and  it  was 
not  until  nearly  the  end  of  the  eighteenth 
century  that  the  tuber  came  into  popular 


It  is  right  and  necessary  that  all  men 
should  have  work  to  do  which  shall  be 
worth  doing,  and  be  of  itself  pleasant  to 
do :  and  which  should  be  done  under 
such  conditions  as  would  make  it  neither 
over-wearisome  nor  over-anxious.  Turn 
that  claim  about  as  I  may,  think  of  it  as 
long  as  I  can,  I  can  not  find  that  it  is  an 
exorbitant  claim;  yet  again  I  say  if  So- 
ciety would  or  could  admit  it  the  face  of 
the  world  would  be  changed ;  discontent 
and  strife  and  dishonesty  would  be 
ended.  To  feel  that  we  were  doing  work 
useful  to  others  and  pleasant  to  our- 
selves, and  that  such  work  and  its  due 
reward  could  not  fail  us  1  What  serious 
harm  could  happen  to  us  then? — WiUiam 
Morris. 


Buy  advertised  Gooda  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVEatTISBMENTS 


Your  Wife 
Wants 

a  Plain  Cabinet  Glenwwd,  it  is  bo  Smooth  and  Easy 
to  Clean.  No  fili^Tee  or  fusey  ornamentation,  juet 
the  natural  black  iron  finieb— "The  Mission  Style" 
applied  to  a  range,  A  room  saver  too— like  the  upright 
piano.      Every  esacntial  refined  and  improved  upon. 

The  Broad,  Square  Oven 

vith  perfectly  straight  sides  is  very  roomy.       fhe 
Glenwood  oven  heat  indicator.  Improved  baking  damp- 
er. Sectional  top,  Revolving  grate  and  Roller  oearing 
ash-pan  are  each  worthy  of  special  mention. 
Coftl.  Wood  and  Gu  Raiiga. 
^.S^XSr^::^,^J^SS:^>rZ;::^S£  The  Glenwood  Gas  Range 

>dMiiib.-i>cB.i.itiarri(biirMtsi«T«u«d«d.  attachment,  consisting  of  Oven,  Broiler  and  Four 
burner  top,  is  made  to  bolt  neatly  to  the  end  of  the  Plain  Cabinet  Glenwood  coal  range.  It 
matters  not  whether  your  kitchen  is  large,  or  small— there's  a  Plain  Glenwood  made  to  fit  it 

Glenwood  Ranges 

Writs  for  free  booklet  U  of  the  PUin  CkUnet  Ghmwood  Ruce  to     ^^ 


Do  You  Make  Candy? 

If  you  do,  be  sure  of  its  goodness  —  stop  guessing. 
Mistakes  mean  waste  of  material  and  time,  so  don't  make 

them. 

Use  a  "Wilder"  Home 
Cemdy  Makers'  Thermometer 

It  insures  uniform  results  and  saves  time.  It  is  easily 
cleaned,  is  adapted  to  any  style  of  dish  and  has  an  ad- 
justable  clip  for  holding  it  in  position.  —  It  is  gaaranteed 
accurate. 

For  sale  by  your  dealer  — at  a  reasonable  price.  If  he 
cannot  supply  you,  we  will  do  so  direct 

CHARLES  WILDER  COMPANY,  Troy,  N.  Y. 

Makers  of  the  Quamnleed  Accurate  Thermomeltrs  ^ 

Buy  advertised  Goods=—  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


•'BELUS  SE7 

For  Nearly  Fifty  "Vfeors 
Cooks  and  Housekeeper 
for  Meat,  Game,FisIi  a 
Insist  upon  B£LL<S  ti 

A  NICE  TURKEY  DRESSING.  Tout  T  or  8  al 
k  deep  dlah,  kddinK  batter  the  aiie  of  mn  egg.  Corer  v 
butter  tmd  make  brewl  right  oomlBteDc;.  Add  one 
BenaonlilK  and  one  eren  toRBpooa  mU.  When  well  in 
Far  goose  or  dnok  add  one  rair  onion  obopped  fl 

JELLIED  HEATS  OR  FOWIi,  1  pint  of  eold 
Bell's  Seasoning,  K  teaapoon  salt,  liquid  enoagh  to  fli 


DELICIOUS  HOME  HADE  SAUHAGE.    To  i 
tablespoon  of  Bell's  Poultry  SeasoDlng  mnd  IK  e^ 

fine,  thoroughly  mix  to  s  stiff  dough,  then  make  into  c. 

Will  mail  on  receipt  of  six  2-cent  stamps  lO-cc 

Ueator  PoDltt;:  or  for  twelve  3-cent  stamps  25-1 

OUT  beautiful  "Booklet"  of  valuable  cooking  i^cipes. 

Foi  delicious  Saiiagi  flam  at  dnctail,  attlii 
Ban's  New  Engbni!  Sausaga  Saasonhg, 

MADE  ONLY  BY  THE  WILUAM  G.  Bl 


MAGIC  COVER 


B.  F.  HACY 

Mil  It  r.  L  WUin  A  CI..  Nm  Okbit  IIUm  ton 
410  Boylston  Street,  Boctan.  '. 


For  Xmas — ^Moth-Proof 


Buy  adevrtiwd  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


A  Perfect  Knife  for  Grape  Fruit  ™'aSd"rang"?™™  " 

The  blada  of  thin  knife  li  nwde  trota  the  flnert  cOHetj  rteei,  finely  tempered,  corred  jolt  to  the 
right  nngle  and  giouiid  to  ■  tctj  keoD  edge,  will  ramore  the  eeoter,  cut  cleanlf  uid  qulcklj  •roiuid 
the  edge  and  divide  the  ftiilt  into  ■egmeDta  leadf  for  eating. 

Tlufutanor  Ihehlid'isthironnd  end  which  prerenticuttlnBtlinniah  the  ontcr  ikln.  A  rnpe  fmlt  knlfa 
ii  >  BWCMitv  u  crap«  fruit  aie  (row.iut  H  raptdlr  In  mpaluitr  u  a  braakfut  frail. 


THE  EMPIRE  KNIFE  CO. 


Winsied,  Conn. 


It's  Highly  Sanitary 
GADUE 

Dustless  Flour  Sifter 

"Th«  Sifter  That  Slfta" 


EsmarM  all  fonicn  mfaftaD- 
cw.cnatWDodiuI.  >■  *lwa|ri 
remdr  >  k«eps  floor  from  intcc  \a, 
mica.  etc.. KnddeliTeriltin  ■ 
flaky.  fsatheTTconditioii  with 
po  wute.  It  I*  ths  boue. 
wits'!    BTsataat    aeiHiomy 

SurpVbe  will  b«  rnnn  to  flad 
Ibc  qoantltr  oT  terettp  matter 
Ip  a  pack  or  flour.  The  rifler 
ysa  baTB  beep  oalpf  bM 
cviied  tbe  forelcD  matter 
IbitMub  the  aieve  and  it  haJ 
■one  into  the  cooklus.  Thla 
dace  Dot  take  place  with  the 
Oadne  Duitlea  Sifter.  The 
minnleat  particle*  of  forditn 
matter  are  remoTcd.  Tod  are 
■nre  of  odIt  flour  In  jronr 
e«oklnB.    HandrediofbouM- 

ilada  la  Two  Sliea. 

One-Sack  •!(•,  baldinc  ZS  Ibt S2.00 

TwP'Sack  site,  haldini  5t  Um S2.00 

S.   H.  VILAS  MFG.  CO. 

nURLlNOTON.  VT. 


SALT  MACKEREL, 
CODFISH.  FRESH  LOBSTER 


rOS  YOUK  OWN  TABLE 


Companr,  with  newlr    caufbt    knspable    scean 
cbakertbapaDT  inland  dealer  codM  poaiblr  farpblL. 

We  tell  0BI7  to  the  conanmar  dlnot  aendlDC  Iv  eipreaa 
riKht  to  yooT  home.  We  prepaj*  cast  ot  Kanaaa  op 
order*  abore  fa.M.  Our  flih  are  pure,  appetltiDf  and  ecoo- 
omical  and  wc  wapt  yon  to  trr  aome.  payment  *at|]ect  to 

'salt^iwkeiwl,  the  f*t.  mestr.  Jnlcr  Ssh  *Te  dellclon*  for 
breakfaat.  Tfaer  ire  freahlr  packed  in  brlpc  and  will  not 
■pdi  on  yooT  band*. 

CodBah  a*  weialtiLlawhitc  attdtWTieleH  and  readr  for 
Intlanl  oar.  It  make*  a  autatantlal  meal,  a  One  chance  from 
meat  at  much  lower  cost 

Freah  Iob*tar  I*  the  t)eat  thing  known  for  salad*.  RIaht 
freah  from  the  water,  they  arc  ilmply  hailed  and  packed  in 
parchment  lined  (An*.  WThey  come  to  you  as  the  pureat 
andaafestlobtteryoa  can  buy  and  the  meat  Is  a*  cilqi  aod 


Freah  Mackerel,  perfect  for  a  fried  Bab.  Shimp  to 
cream  on  loait.  Crabmeat  tor  Newlmri;  and  dcriUed. 
Salmon  ready  to  aerTe.  Sardlnea  of  all  kind*.  Tonnr  for 
•alad.  (iBodwloh  nUlnKa  and  eiery  eood  thing  packed 
here  or  abroad,  yon  can  get  here  anil  keep  right  on  your 
pantry  »belf  for  regular  or  emergency  um. 

miheyerrorder  weaendboofc  of  redpea  for  pre- 
paring all  ofour  fl(h  predacta. 

Our  Hat  teila  how  each  kind  of  flih  I*  put  op.  wllh 


Buy  advertiaed  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


The  Mouth  Waters 

at  the  mere  reading  of  the  marvelous  good  things 
in  Mrs.  Rorer's  Newest  and  Latest  Book 

Ice  Creams,  Water  Ices,  Frozen  Puddings 

Together  with 

Refreshments  for  all  Social  Affairs 

Every  housewife  is  keenly  alive  to  the  desirability  of  a  good  dessert,  that  delecta- 
ble finish  to  the  meal,  and  she  desires  to  avoid  sameness.  Here  then,  is  a  mine 
of  the  best  and  tastiest  things  ever  devised.  The  recipes  are  exceedingly  good, 
many  very  new,  and  all  easily  followed.  The  book  ought  to  appeal  strongly  to 
every  housewife  in  this  country.  Look  over  one  at  your  bookstore. 
Bound  in  cloth,  75  cents;   by  mail,  85  cents. 

All  booksellers  and  department  stores  have  it,  or  can  get  it  for  you, 
or  write  us 

ARNOLD  &  COMPANY,  420  Sansom  Street.  Philadelphia 


A  REMARKABLE  OFFER 

For  K  limited  tiin«  w«  will  tend  to  yonr  home 

FREE -ON  THIRTY  DAYS'  APPROVAL 

THE  "HElfDEKSOllCERTinED"  AUTOMATIC  CBAINSTITCH 
If  foa  derire,  javi  nwy  piuduwe  foi 

$29.50  —  USUAL   PRICE,    $45.00 

(for  BBine  tUng  with  Uttlo  diffenot  itrla  ckUnet) 
Oar  E*iy  EantjJ  Purcbue  ^ui  kmd  nwkM  Uie  nucUne  Toim. 
PAYMENTS  AS  UTTLB  AS  $1.00  A  WEEE 

ir,  rorinr  rwuon,T<nidaiiat  wlilt  loke«p  tha  nwcbine. 

mBT  retarn  It  trttbout  Btir  obtintioa  on  roar  put. 

■ranlaad  far*  lllallAa  fraa  froai  ImpHfactloBS 

_ .   B  dellTciv  to  TDOr  honia  wllh  Carttilsd  Sarvlca. 

The  beat  ■utanutlc  cbklnttltcti  macbina  Id  tbe  world, 

Or^mr  On»  Today— Don't  Wmli 

F.  C.  HENDERSON  COMPANY 

480  WiiUnpatt  St..  Croiby  BH<,  BOSTOH.  HAS8. 


Perfect  Cool 

Domestic  Science 

Willi  IcMl  Trouble  aad  Ei 

Hom«- Study  Courses 

The  Cbanibe™   FireleM   CooKiE 

Food.    hMtlth,    liouMkaeplDK.    dothing,    chlldrea 

and  does  the  work  of  bolb— ' 

well-paid  positioaa. 

KSjt"™  bEtler'f^  aSd'tbJ 

•THE  PROFESSION  OF  HOME-MAKING."  100 

Coolrao,"   10  ccnte.     "Food   ViLUB,"   10  cent*. 

'°SJ;;,''l"'wSi  •ori.««Hi 

•'  The  Upto-Date  Horn,"  IS  cent*. 

DOMESTIC  EQUIPMENT  CO- 
HW.Ul»Si..CUcMa 

U.  SCHOOL  OF  HOME  ECONOMICS,  BOS  W.  B9fh  SUGHIGUO. 

Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


THE  SPIBAL  PEBFOIATEO  DASHEK 

uUrHag  in  mvtiy  Jirmetion  at 


Roberts  Lightning  Mixer 

Iff         -  ***    ^'"P    creMO.    be«l 

Utii^n  °B«*>  <ui<]  "OX,  itii  and 

IIDom:  dium,  u  well  u  lighten 

1^,  and  aerate  every  other 

_Etti  tubitance  oT  liquid  lued 

MiiH  I    for  CuKards,  Pudding*, 

M^  '     Calces,  I>esiin8>,  Gta- 

„   —  vie*,  and  eveiy  variety 

i^  of  Diinb. 

»">^vt  Once  tMted,  it  it  al-  ! 

Nin*  wayi    uied   with    con-  I 

■Habf  ilantlyiocieatinKdelighL  ! 

„i,~  Made  of  glau  wth  : 

taa^M  nickeled  workinB  paitt.    . 

HiiH  Fun  to  wMii,  easy  to 

'•""■  clean    and    difficult    to 

damage.  j 

Sold  by  retailen.  If  not  found,  aend  SOc.  for  plat,  '  : 

or  ?5e.  for  quart  ilae  by  prepaid  Parcel  Post. 
Blaatrafd  DncTiptinm  Cinndar  Fnm 

DORSEY  MFa  COMPANY 
78  Broad  Street  BoMon,  Man. 


Just  Look  at  the  Fisure*  I 


^ELL-O 


write  I*  n  aaa  ■&  Iw  II. 

~  rOCBCa.,  UR«f .  R.T.,Hrf  BrMacfcW|.Ci 

. jjjj,  n*cle«««  in  bir  red  letic 


To  the  Thrifty  Housekeeper,  the 

Silver-Clean  Pan 

I  is  Now  a  Necessity 

It  it  a  device  patented  by  Profettort  of  Chemiuiy 

of  the  UnivetM^  of  Witconiio ;  hence,  ttrictly  tdentiiic. 

It  hat  been  on  tale  and  putbed  in  die  middle  Wett 

(or  upward  of  two  yean,  with  retultt  that  more  than 

200,000  are  now  m  lue  in  private  hotnet  throu^out 

duit  (cctioa. 

We  have  onljr  tecendy  opened  our  Bottoo  Office,  with  the  efiect  that  it  it  mi  tale  b  near^ 

all  the  leading  E}epartinent  Stmet  (Home  Fumithing  SectionJ  in  New   England  Statet.     Alto 

in  many  of  the  Jewelry  Hoinei  and  Kitchen  Uleniil  Storei. 

It  hat  die  "Seal  of  Approver  (No.  603)  of  Good  Houtckeeprang  Inititute. 
Mrt.  Winnified  Haiper  Cooley,  National  Prendent  of  the  AMCciated  Qubi  of  Domeitic 
Sdence,  wrote  very  praitingly  at  to  itt  mentt  in  "The  Fwecatt,"  i«ue  of  April,  1912. 

ItabeJ  Ely  Lord,  Director  Pratt  Iiutitute,  Brooklyn,  after  thu'oiighly  letting  it,   writet  under 
dateof  January  23rd.  1913: 

"On  NoTemMi  2]iL  [  wrote  a^ng  yon  lo  Mnd  lu  fat  cxperiraenul  purpoK*  one  of  jrour  SilTet-Qeao  Pani. 
You  did  *o,  ukI  we  have  lolcd  it  in  our  labantonEi  with  uch  latiwacloiy  rewlti  thai  we  ihall  we  it  with  all 
■tudoitt  in  iut  tifhini  ol  the  dcamog  tA  ■ilra." 


SmJ  fur  Clmkn  mad  Plica*.    AGENTS  WANTED.  Cnx  hDct,  lufi  infiu.  Omm 


THE  VANCE  SALES  CO.,  44  India  Street,  Bo<ton,  Man.  . 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL-MAGAZINE 


PREMIUMS 


Experience   has  shown  that  the  most  satisfactory  way  to 

enlaice  tbe  subscription  list  of  The  Boston  Cooldnc  School  Magazine  is  through  Hs 

present  subscribers,  who,  personally,  can  vouch  for  the  value  of  the  publication. 

To  make  it  an  object  for  subscribers  to  secure  new  subscribers,  vn  ofier  the  tai- 

lowing  premiums: 

CONDITIONS  :       Prcnuuma  aro  not  Kiven  teith  m  mbicriptioa  otform  rennwal,  but  onljr  to 

'     — ■     -      pr»m(  aubKribera,  for  Bccuring  and  lending  to  u*  near  jrearlj'  rabaaip- 

tion*  Bt  $\M>  each.     The  niunbw  of  new  •ubscriptiatit  required  to  aecuK  each  premium  ia  clearijr 

Stated  below  the  description  of  the  premium, 

Truiaportation  ia  or  i>  not  paid  as  atated. 
Oul  PnalBB*  WB  (laBdard  <oodi.  !■•«  iiiDti  ■■  ara  told  at  lb*  battsr  ■Mraa, 
haTa  flnn  nnlTanal  HllUaatlsB. 


vwallwarth  Iha  prisa 


SOMETHING  NEW 


At  srerf  social  ftmctlon  h«i«  in  the  east  Uny 
«kes  are  served,  bakad  in  tins  Uke  those  sliowa 
in  the  illnstration.  ^ese  tins  are  Imported  i 
beanUftillf  tnsde  from  very  heavy  tin,  sad  are 
first-claM,  A-No.  1  in  every  respect. 

Here  la  one  Oood  Recipe  to  Try. 
POUND  CAKB  rOR  LITTLE  TINS. 
)(  cnp  flour 
}i  teaspoonfnl  baking 

powder  (level) 
X  teaspoonfiil  mace 
«  egg  whites 


K  cup  Biwar 
8  egg  yolKS 
)i  tableapoonftal  brandy 


rmilk 

Put  a  Uttle  of  the  mixture  In  the  c 

tin  I  the  heat  of  the  ovMi  will  cause  it  to  run  and 

fill  the  tins.    The  redpe  makes  abont  sixty  little 

otkea.     Spread  confectioner's  icing  on  the  top 

or  leave  plain. 

One  of  these  tins,  baking  19  little  cakes  (sUte  whldi  design  yon  wtah),  sent,  pos^wid,  for  two 

(3)  new  subacripUoUB.    (Pilce  5I.2S.} 


Every  One  Who  Has  Kacalveil  One  of  Then* 

CHAFING  DISHES 

Haa  Been  Dellibtea  With  It 

and  surprised  1k>w  easily  the  necessary  snbscriptloot 
were  secured.  Have  yoa  obtained  one  yet  P  If 
not,  start  today  to  grt  the  subscrtptioni,  and  within 
three  or  four  days  you  wit!  be  enjoying  the  dish. 

This  Chafer  Is  a  full-ifse,  three-pint,  copper  dish, 
nickel  plated,  with  all  the  latest  improvements,  in- 
cluding handles  on  the  hot  water  pan.  Can  befarn- 
iahed  coi>i>er  £nlab  If  dealred. 

Sent  for  seven  (7)  new  subscriptions,  express 
charges  to  be  paid  by  recover.    (Price  59.00.) 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


No.  S  Doi 

Tbiiisan 

thoniiif[h  te 


PREMIUMS 

SILVER-CLEAN  PAN 

A  dcrice  for  remoTtDg   taraish  from  articlei  made  of 

Eld  or  direr,  aolld  or  plated,  bv  wh>t  !■  knowa  oj  an 
ectMlftic  or  Galvanic  actJon,  which  li  branght  about  b^ 
placing  Id  the  SilTer-Clean  Pan,  Watmr,  ana  adding  for 
ereiy  quart  one  teaspoonfol  of  common  Bating  Soda  and 
ODe  tAOlespoonftil  oi  ordmtay  TtMa  Salt.  Stir  notil  dii- 
■olved  and  the  solution  Is  nadf  for  nse. 

Articles  to  be  cleaned  ara  placed  in  Silver-Clean  Pan 
SolntioD  and  left  therein  trora  on*  to  fiom  minatet,  which 
is  suffident  time  to  remove  the  ordinary  tarnish ;  tbej  are 
then  rinsed  all  at  onc«  in  cold  water,  and  dried  with 
chamois  slcin  or  soft  doth,  and  will  be  cleaner  and  brigbter 
than  yon  can  el«an  them  with  the  old  fashioned  powders 
or  pastes. 

Silverware  that  has  been  accmnulating  tarnish  for 
months  or  TCan  may  be  cleaned  bv  the  Silver-Clean  Pan 
method,  which  It  aeaolalafy  harmlmt*  to  silverware  or  the 
person  using  it. 

ible  Pan,  ■mall&mllj' sice,  tent,  prepaid,  for  four  (4)  new  subscriptioiu.  (Price  $3.23.) 
article  patented  hy  Professors  of  Chemistry  of  the  Unlvenily  of  Wisconsin,  end  after 
its  has  been  approved  and  recommended  by  Domestic  Sdence  teachers  everywhere. 


Pastry  Baif  and  Four  Tubes 

(Bag  not  shown  in  cut.) 
A  complete  outfit.      Practical  In  every  way. 
Hade  especially  for  Bakers  and  Caterers.     Emi- 
nently suitable  for  home  use. 


Slanting 
Dial 
^  Household 

IX.        Scales 
^^  .  A  necessity  in 
,      every  borne. 
i«       Sent,    prepaid, 
for  (3)  new  sub- 
scriptions. 

Piice,  prepaid, 
SI.SO. 


The  Dream  Cream 
Whip 

For  whipping  cream,  beat- 
lngeggs,etc.  Thli"Whip" 
is  simple  in  design,  of  dura- 
ble construction  and  very 
light  running.  With  it  you 
con  whip  single  cream  per- 
fectly in  one  minute.  It  does 
■at  spluh  or  iplattfr.     Com- 


and  strongly  recommend  it 
the  kind  we  have  ever  seeD< 

Sent,  poptpud,  for  two  (2)  ) 
(Price  S1.2S.) 


the  best  thing  of 


Practical 
Binders 
for 

Boston 
Cooking- 
School 
Magazine 


We  have  had  made  a  number  of  triiders  In 
green,  red  and  ecru  buckram,  appropriately  let- 
tered. They  are  neat,  attractive  and  practical. 
Each  bolds  conveniently  from  one  to  ten  copies 
(a  full  year)  of  the  magaEine. 

As  there  is  publiahcdin  the  last  number  (May) 
of  each  volume  a  complete  Index,  hf  preserving 
the  magasines  la  a  binder  one  will  have  at  the 
end  of  the  year  a  complete  bonk  on  cooking  and 
hausehold  science  always  handy  Air  reference. 

Sent,  postpaid,  for  one  (1)  new  sulMcrlption- 
(Price  aOe.) 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE,  BOSTON,  MASS. 

■  Addfltl-Sflpfamber  madaslaa  for  a  londar  liat  of  praDlana.      If  yoa  have  not  a  copy,  avnil  for  one. 

Buy  adevrlised  Goods  - —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Buy  advertised  Goods —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


BAKERS 
COCOA 

Is  Good  Cocoa 

3^*n^  Of  fine  quality, 
made  from  care- 
fully selected  high- 
grade  cocoa  beans, 
skilfully  blended, 
prepared  by  a 
perfect  mechanical 
process,  without 
the  use  of  chemi- 
cals or  dyes.  It 
contains  no  added 

IpotaA.  possesses  a  deliciqys  natural 
flavor,  and  is^n^t  fboS  value. 
Walter  Baker  &  Co.  Ltd. 


DORCHESTER,  MA^S. 


SAWYER'S  US  SEPTOLA 

KIT  TO  HULTHv'  HOMES 


QUICK  REUEF 

AcddBnti  wiUbappeaichlldren  ara  Mldom  tree fmn 
■ome  kind  or  otber.  Septolis  aot  only  reUe*esiu>' 
mediately. but  beluK  a  perfect  antiseiitk:.  Itauae  faj 
SutseonaaDd  Fhrslclans  ererrnliere  ia  the  bestte- 
com  mends  tlon  for  cuta.  burns,  truisa,  atings.  etc, 


Ithi 


lalfoT  tl 


lOc,  25c..  SOc  75c  SI.00  BohIm 

At  Voar  Giocor'B  or  DraSii'tB' 

Sawyer  Crystal   Blue  Co., 

Hibn  elibe  rnooi  Siw^w'*  CnaM  Bhia 
»»  BKOAO  8T.,  aOSTOH.  MASS.,  tl.  S.  A. 


"CKoisa" 
Ceylon  Tea 


lib. 

Giiittin 
COCmli 

1-2  lb. 
Cinisten 
SSCinti 


Pare 

Kich 

Fragrant 


Packed  in  Parchment-lined 

One  pound  and  lialf -pound  Canisters 

We  inoite  eamparuoR  with  'other  Teae   of 
the  aame  or  higher  price 

S.  S.  PIERCE  CO. 

BOSTON      -       ...       -       BKOOKLINB 


Stickney  &  Poor's  Spices 
Retain  Their  Aroma 

You  may  open  a,  can  of  Stickney  &  Poor's 
ground  spice  that  was  packed  twenty  yean  a^ 
and  find  the  flaroi  aa  strong  as  ever  it  was . 


STICKNEY  &  POOR  SPICE  CO. 

184  State  St.,  Boston 
THE  NAnOKAL 
MUSTARD    rOT 


1± 


jfJL 


^^05;e 


'ebeenoalolilUliedlDOfeUianllTUIS.  sf. 
tem  or  parmcnti  eTeir  family  in  modetat*  cii- 
uUacCicanowaBVDSEpiBDD.    W*  take  old 

naa.  Write  far  Catalovne  D  and  eiptaaatioiia 


PIANOS: 


PASTRY   AND   PIE   MAKING 

THE  BOSTON 

C     ]     sc 

MAGAZINE 

OFCUIyINAR>Y*SCI£NC£AND- 
DOAIESTIC  •  BCONOAIICS 


For  Thanks^iving- 

AFat  You n$  Gobbler, 

well  stuffed! 

PainUd  by  Jemis  Ltilii  Wallati  Ur  Crtam  el  What  CBrnfinwy.  CtffriitI  1913  bf  Crram  al  Wtral  Cimftny. 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


We  are  advertising  in  this  magazine  contin- 
ually with  the  sole  object  of  calling  your 
attention  to  the  superexcellence  of  Mrs,  Rorer's 
Cookery  Books.  Mrs.  Rorer  is  a  wonderful 
woman  in  her  chosen  field.  Everything  from 
her  pen  bears  the  weight  of  an  authority  than 
which  there  is  no  higher  or  better. 

The  great  point  is  to  focus  your  attention  on 
her  work.  We  want  you  to  know  and  feci 
hpw  good  it  is,  and  how  well  you  can  live  by 
following  her  guidance.  Look  over  her  books 
in  your  bookstore,  or  write  us. 


£fer«'«  the  IM  of  ker  bookM 


Mrs.  Rorw's  New  Gx>k  Book 

Cloth,  $2.00 :  by  mail,  $2.20 

Philadelphia  Cook  Book 

Cloth,  $1.00:  by  mail,  $1.15 

Vegetable  Cookery  and 
Meat  Substitutes 

Cloth,  $1.50  s  by  mail,  $1.65 

Every  Day  Menu  Book 

Cloth,  $1.50  X  by  mail,  $1.65 

My  Best  250  Recipes 

Ice  Cream,  Water  Ices,  etc« 
and  Preserving. . . 


How  to  Use  a  Chafing  Dish 
Sandwiches 


> 


New  Salads 
Dainties 


Cloth 

75  cents 

by  mail 

SOconts 

each 


Many  Ways  for  Cooking  Eggs 

Made-Over  Dishes 

Home  Candy  Making 

Hot  Weather  Dishes 


Cloth 

50  conts 
y  by  mail 
55  coats 
each 


Cakes,  Icings  and 
Bread  and  Bread  Making 


New  Ways  for  Oysters  )    Cloth.  25  coato 

V  by  mail,  30  cants 
Quick  Soups )  each 


Ail  bookstores  and  department  stores  have  them,  or  can  get  them  for  you,  or  write  us 

ARNOLD  &  COMPANY,  420  Sansom  St.,   Philadelphia 


buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

257 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING 


SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Vol.  XVIII 


NOVEMBER.  1913 


No.  4 


^■^" 


CONTENTS  FOR  NOVEMBER 

PAGE 

MENUS  FOR  THANKSGIVING 265 

A  HOME  OF  THE  PAST  AND  PRESENT     (Illustrated) 

Rosamond  Lampman  267 

AUTUMN  DAYS Christine  Kerr  Davis  270 

CALIFORNIA'S  WINTER  CELERY  CROP    (Illustrated) 

Charles  A.  Byers  271 

DO  MEN  WANT  EFFICIENT  WIVES?  Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson  273 

THE  CANDLE  LIGHT L.  M.  Thornton  276 

HER  HEART  WARMING Alix  Thorn  276 

TWO  HOUSE  MOTHERS Flora  Huntley  280 

THE  WANE  OF  THE  YEAR A.  W,  S._  281 

HOW  ONE  BRIDE  LEARNED  EFFICIENCY  .     .      E.  C.  D.  282 

THE  MAKING  OF  WOMAN 283 

WELCOME  AND  UNWELCOME  GUESTS     .    Mary  H.  Tufts  284 

EDITORIALS 286 

SEASONABLE   RECIPES  ( Illustrated  with  half-tone  engravings 

of  prepared  dishes) Janet  M.  Hill  289 

MENUS  FOR  WEEK  IN  NOVEMBER   ....      „      „      „  298 

MENUS  FOR  THANKSGIVING  DINNERS   .    .      „      „      „  299 

PREPARATION   IN   DETAIL  OF  THE  MEALS 

OF  ONE  DAY ,      ,,      „  800 

HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 303 

MARGARET'S  KITCHEN 11.  J  Blackledge  307 

WHERE  IS  YOUR  PHONE? Flora  Huntley  308 

FIVE  AND  TEN-CENT  MEALS     ....     Luna  May  Bemis  309 

WHEN  THE  COOKY  JAR  IS  FULL    Harriet  Whitney  Symonds  310 

QUERIES  AND  ANSWERS 811 

NEW  BOOKS •    .  318 

MISCELLANEOUS 320 


Sl.OO  A  YEAR 


lOc  A  COPY 


Published  Ten  Times  a  Year 

Four  Years'   Subscription,   $3.00 

Entered  at  Boston  post-office  mm  aecond-class  matter.    Copyrldht.  191 3«  by 

THE     BOSTON     COOKING      SCHOOL     MAGAZINE     COMPANY 
372   BOYLSTON    STREET  BOSTON.   MASSACHUSETTS 


Please  Renew  on  Receipt  of  the  Colored  Blank  Enclosed  for  that  Purpose 


258 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  lubstiti 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


INDEX  FOR  NOVEMBER 


AD  DRESSING 


aaxy  with  economjr.    h 
>t  follow  because  Yacht 

Club  Salad  Drewins  enjoys 
■ucti  hish  (avor  amofii  cpi- 
curea  of  refined  taste  that  it 


WriU  Ar  Frmt  A-cto*  BacA 


in  N.  Ibriiat  St,  CUcaM,  m. 


iiamtta. 


A  Home  of  the  Past  and  Present  ...  267 

Autumn  Days 270 

California's  Winter  Cel^y  Crop    ...  271 

Do  Men  Want  Efficient  WivesP    ...  273 

Editorials 2S6 

Five  and  Ten-Cent  MeaU 309 

Her  Heart-Warming 276 

Home  Ideas  and  Economics     ....  303 

How  One  Bride  Learned  Efficiency     .  2S2 

Margaret's  Kitchen 307 

Menus 265,  298,  299 

Preparations  of  Three  Meals  in  One  Day.  300 

The  Candle  Light 276 

The  Wane  of  the  Year 281 

Two  Hause-mothers 280 

Welcome  and  Unwelcome  Guests  .  284 

When  the  Cooky  Jar  is  Full     ....  310 

Where  is  Your  'Pfione? 308 

New  Books 123 

SBA30NABLE  RecIPBS: 

Apples,  Jellied,  111 294 

Apples,  Stuffed,  111 294 

Beans,  Wax,  Scotch  Style     ....  294 

Bouillon,  Chicken  and  Tomato  ...  290 

Canapes,  Anchovy  and  Egg,  111.  289 

Cake,  Bride's,  Confectioner's  Frosting,  III.  296 

Codfish,  Fresh,  Boiled,  with  Oyster  Sauce  290 

Chicken,  Roast,  with  Rice  Croquettes,  III.  293 

Cookies,  Honey 294 

CrxiuBtadea  of  Fruit  Maltaise,  III.   .      .  295 

Doughnuts,  Molasses 295 

Eggs,  Poached  with  Anchovy  Paste,  111.  292 

Fish,  Fillets  of,  Fried,  with  Salad,  III.   .  29t 

Frosting,  Ornamental,  111 296 

Fowl,  Braised  with  Oysters  ....  292 

Oysters,  Fried 291 

Puff-Paste 296 

Sausage,  Chicken  or  Veal      ....  292 

Sausage,  Fish  , 291 

Soup,  Cream  of  Oyster 290 

Timbales,  Chicken,with  Bechamel  Sauce  292 

Val-au-Vent,  Oyster,  III 291 

Queries  and  Answers: 

Batter,  Fritter 316 

CabbE^e  and  Beans,  Cooking  of  3tl 

Cake,  Lemon,  with  Filling    ....  314 

Cakes,  Rum,  Baba 314 

Dressing,  Mustard  Salad       ....  311 

Dressing,  Russian,  Salad       ....  J 14 

Marmalade,  Grapefruit 3tl 

Muffins  or  Gems,  Graham    ....  314 

Parfait,  Golden 3!6 

Peppers,  Stuffed  Sweetbreads  .      .  312 

Poultry,  Keeping  of 312 

Pickles,  Dill 314 

Salad,  Place  o[,  at  Dinner     ....  312 

Sauce,  Bordeaux 314 

Tea  Kettle,  Care  of 312 

Timbales,  Fish  with  Bechamel  Sauce  .  316 

Ware,  Cleaning  Enamel 312 

Viscogen 312 


Buy  advertised  Uoods — ido  not  accept  substiti 


ADVERTISEMENTS 

Your  Wife 
Wants 

a  Plain  Cabinet  Glenwood,  It  is  bo  Smooth  and  Easy 
to  Clean.  No  fillEree  or  fuasy  ornamentation,  just 
the  natural  black  iron  flniah— "The  Mission  Stjrle" 
applied  to  a  range.  A  room  saver  too— like  the  apri^t 
piano.      Every  esBential  refined  and  improved  upon. 

The  Broad,  Square  Oren 

with  perfectljr  straight  sides  is  very  roomy,      rhe 
Glenwood  oven  beat  indicator.  Improved  baking  damp- 
er, Sectional  top.  Revolving  grate  and  Roller  nearing 
ash-pan  are  each  worthy  of  special  mention. 
CMl.Woo4aB«CMKaB^.  -^       y^ 

2i2:S''-£V:±2*J?5K:iru'ZrC£3£  TJ»  Glenwood  Gai  Rantfe 

•«<rtiki»««Miitk>><rti>ctan>f*n>>.-4n«.  attachment,  consisting  of  Oven,  Broiler  and  Pour 
bnmer  top,  is  made  to  bolt  neatly  to  the  end  of  the  I^ain  Cahmet  Glenwood  coal  range.  It 
matters  not  whether  your  kitchen  is  large  or  small— there's  a  Plain  Glenwood  made  to  fit  iL 

Glenwood  Ranges 

Write  ftc  fiM  boolcM  41  of  tba  PUln  Cddoat  OlsDWOid  Bun  to     ^^ 


A   COMPANION    VOLUME   TO   "THE 
BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  COOK-BOOK" 

A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 

IFiti  Eight  Cnhrtd  FUu$  tmJ  mire  ibsn  Tmt  Hundred  lUmstratitm  in  Haf-  Tane 

440  Pages.    Cloth,  |1.60,  net.     By  mail,  $1.75 

The  "  New  Book  of  Cookery  "  contains  more  than 
eight  hundred  redpes  upon  all  branches,  including  many 
new  and  important  dishes  not  to  be  found  in  any  other 
work. 

An  almost  indispensable  companion  to  the  author's 
invaluable  "  Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book." 

Thii  book  piraenta  the  litest  triumphs  of  the  culiniry  an. 
It  i(  very  fiillj"  and  attracdvely  illuitrated, — Nea  Tirk  Sun. 

LITTLE,  BROWN  &  CO.,  Publishers,   -    -    BOSTON 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


PREMIUMS 


Experience   has  shown  that  the  most  satisfactory  way  to 

enlarge  the  subscription  list  of  The  Boston  Cooldne  School  Magaxine  is  through  ita 
present  subscribers,  who,  personally,  can  vouch  for  the  value  of  the  publicatiaa. 
To  make  it  an  object  for  subscribers  to  secure  new  subscribers,  we  c^Efer  the  fiol* 
lowing  premiums: 

CONDITIONS  !       Premiunu  are  not  given  with  ■  autwcriptlon  mform  Tonewal,  but  011I7  to 
I       pmaat  autMeriben,  for  aecuring  and  ■ending  to  ua  naw  yearly  mbaoip- 
tloDi  at  t)-00  each.    The  ntinib«r  of  new  aubscrlptions  required  to  aecure  each  premium  la  clearly 
Mated  bdow  tbe  daacripdon  of  the  premium, 

Traaaportation  ia  or  ia  nel  paid  aa  atated. 
Onr  PmIii»»  an  uaadud  ansdi,  !■■[  nafa  ■■  ara  hiIJ  at  Ifaa  bMtar  atsrH,  ara  wall  wsrth  Iha  »rUa,  amA 


SOMETHING  NEW 

At  ercoy  aodal  Amction  bete  in  tbe  east  Oaj 
cakea  ar«  lerred,  baked  in  tin*  Uke  thoae  ahowD 
in  tbe  lllnatiation.  Thcae  Uoa  are  Importedt 
beautlftillj  made  from  Tery  beaTj  tin,  and  »• 
flnt-dau,  A-No.  1  in  erety  reapect. 

Here  la  one  Good  Recipe  to  Tiy, 
POUND  CAKE  FOR  LITTLE  TIHS. 
K  cup  butter  U  cup  flour 

}i  cup  lugar  n  teaapoonful  baking 

t  egg  yolka  powder  (lerd) 

}i  tablopoonfnl  brandy    i(  teaapooufal  mace 
or  milk  8  egg  whitea 

Put  a  little  of  the  mixture  In  the  center  of  e*cb 
tin;  the  heat  of  the  oven  will  cause  It  to  run  and 
,  fill  the  tine.    The  recipe  makes  about  aixty  little 

cakes.     Spread  confectioner'!  icing  on  Uie  top 
or  leave  plain. 
Oneof  theteUna,  bakinfcia  Itttle  cakei  (lUte  which  detigu  yon  wiib),  sent,  portpaid.  for  two 
(2)  new  lubsciiptions.     (Price  $1.25.) 


Every  One  Who  Bna  ■•celved  One  of  Tbea* 

CHAFING  DISHES 

Baa  Been  Dellihled  With  It 

and  surprised  how  eaiily  the  necemary  subacriptionB 
were  secured.  Have  yoa  obtained  one  yet?  If 
not,  start  today  to  get  tbe  subscrlptloDi,  and  within 
three  or  four  day!  you  will  be  enjoying  tbe  dish. 

This  Chafer  is  a  fuIl-BiKe,  three-pint,  copper  disb, 
nickel  plaied,  with  all  the  latest  improvements.  In- 
cluding handles  on  the  hi>t  water  pan.  Can  be  tttra- 
Isbed  copper  Snlab  if  desired. 

Sent  for  seven  (?)  new  subscriptious,  express 
charges  to  be  paid  by  receiver.     (Price  SS.OO.) 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE,  BOSTON,  MASS. 

Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


PREMIUMS 


Sterling  Silver 

Not  K)  called  pTemlmn  gooda,  bnt 
the  MUii«  weight  and  pattern  ai  sold  by 
the  better  dtf  jewelers.  Something 
ererf  woman  will  begUd  to  owd. 

Six  (•)  tolld  ■terlbig  after  dinner 
Ccffee  Spoon*  Bcnt,  prepaid  for  ctx  (6) 
new  nUwoiptioDi-    Price  $4*d0> 

Sugar  Tonga,  aarae  pattern,  tent 
prepaid,  for  ihrea  (3)  new  lulMCTip- 
tlon«.    Price  $2.23. 

BoD-Bou  Spoon,  aent,  prepaid  for 
tbrce  (3)  new  subscriptioDs.  Price 
«2  23. 


Chatlatf  Diafa.  Fork  and  Spoon,           Brass  Glow  NUht  L«mp.  „.      f.        „  _. 

.ick.i  putd.  .bony  h»ii..  boa,  "M  fst;t;4"5S..'ff,'".a'ft?s  ™.S-o?.'S',o7f.v.; 

Bent   prepaid     for     three     (3)    new  eickroom.nurseryor  balh  room   Burns  itaide  the  oven.  Aciurete.  re- 

nibscriptioDB.     Price    5I.OO    eadi.  aweek  with  one  fillinn.  Sent  prepaid  for  liable,   and  convenient       SenI 

$1.79  for  both.  "'«  <')  WW  «ubKnptK>i.      Price  rOc.  J^'^Ppti^nJ^'n'^S  i^'.zT 


Hsho^nlte  Coaster   Set 

It  ia  now  quite  the  proper 
thing  to  uBc  these  coaitera  for 
vBter  glusea.  The  set  offered 
is  high  grade  in  every  particular 
and  wili  beautify  any  table. 
Nicicel  plated.  Waiter  tS  inches 
in  diameter,  coasters  3X  inches. 
Theset;  waiter  and  sixcoaaters 
sent,  prepaid,  for  ten  (10)  sub- 
scriptions.    Price  $8.00. 

Coaiters    alone,   one   sent, 
prepaid.  fOr  one(l)  aubscripti 
Price  SO  cents  eai-h. 


THE    BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE,   BOSTON,   MASS. 

Send  for  larite  and  complete  list  of  premiums 

Buy  adevrtised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL-MAGAZINE 


The 


yin^ 


and  goldeii  browo  outiide,  so  soft  and  jUKy  ii 
■ide,  that  tbe  veiy  thought  of  it  ia  enough  ti 
make  one's  mouth  water. 


Ticiently  hot,  and  euouah  fat  being  used  t 

Eletely  cover  the  articles  cooked.  Use  a  deep 
fttle  for  frying,  a  Scotch  bowl  like  the  one 
illustrated,  preferably,  and  till  it  two-thirds  full 
of  Simon  Pure  leaf  lard  [leaf  lard  because  that  is 
the  tinert  of  lards  and  Simon  Pure  Uaf  lard  be- 
cause that  is  the  very  cream  of  leaf  lards).  Set 
the  kettle  on  the  fire  and  when  hot  enough  to 
throw  off  a  faint  blue  hase  It  is  the  risfat  tem- 
perature for  frying.  The  articles  to  be  tried  are 
dropped  in  slowly  (must  housekeepers  Use  a  wire 
basket  for  this)  a  few  bI  h  time  so  that  the  heat 
is  not  reduced  too  much.  The  hot  fat  at  once 
sears  the  outside  and  forms  a  crust  through  which 
the   grease   cannot   penetrate  and  all  the  natural 


juice  of  the  article  cooked  is  preserved.  When 
done  lift  from  the  hot  fat  and  bold  over  the 
kettle  tor  a  second  to  drip  Lay  on  kitchen  paper 
in  the  open  oven  until  quite  dry.  Codied  in  tnb 
way  the  food  will  be  so  free  of  grease  so  as  not  to 
leave  a  mark  on  the  napkin  on  wbicb  it  is  served. 

The  importance  of  using  Armour's  Simon  Pure 
leaf  lard  for  fr^ijg  is  gieat.  Being  an  absolutely 
pure  leaf  lard  it  ensures  a  delicate  sweetness  wher- 
ever it  is  used.  The  rendering  process  throu^ 
which  the  fat  goes  is  very  much  the  same  as  that 
of  our  grandmothera'  day.  It  is  done  in  open 
kettles  so  that  there  are  no  odors  in  the  finislied 
lard  to  be  thrown  off  later  in  cooking.  Tie  same 
lard  may  be  used  again  and  again  without  carry- 
ing the  flavor  of  one  article  to  another.  Simoo 
Pure  leaf  lard  is  the  outcome  of  halt  a  century's 
experience  in  lard  making. 

Simon  Pure  leaf  lard  comes  to  the  housewite  in 
seeled  pails  so  that  the  purity  is  protected. 

Use  It  according  to  directions  for  fryins  and 
your  dishes  will  not  only  be  toothsome  and  dainty 
but  digestible  as  well. 


In  Sealed  Pails  . 
Government  Inspected 


Only  Pure  Leaf  Fat 

Is  used  for  Simon  Pure 


XRMOUR'^COMPANV 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitute* 


Menu  for  Dinner  Served  at  Table  Shown 

in  Frontispiece 

Grapefruit  in  Cocktail  Glasses 

Consomme,  with  Vegetables,  Julienne 

Celery  Olives  Salted  Nuts 

Shoulder  of  Cod,  Oyster  Sauce 

Hot  House  Cucuinbers 

French  Potato  Balls^  with  Parsley 

Roast  Turkey,  Giblet  Sauce 

Cranberry  Sauce 

Potatoes,  Scalloped,  with  Red  and  Green  Peppers 

Squash  Souffle 

Onions  in  Cream 

Fillets  of  Wild  Duck  in  Vol-au-vent 

Currant  Jelly 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin 

Melba  Cup 

(Vanilla  ice-cream,  half  a  preserveo  peach,  raspberry  sauce) 

Nuts  Raisins  Bonbons 

Sweet  Cider  Coffee 

^  ^   ^ 

Menu  for  Dinner  in  the  South 

Anchovy,  Egg-and-Truffle  Canapes 

Oyster  Soup 

Pin  Money  Mangoes  Olives  Salted  Pecans 

Rolled  Fillets  of  Fresh  Fish,  Baked,  HoUandaise  Sauce 

Potato  Balls,  French  Fashion 

Roast  Guinea  Chicks,  Rice  Croquettes,  Creole  Yams,  Southern  Style 

Onions,  Buttered 

Guava  Jelly 

Roast  Ham,  Pineapple  Fritters,  Wine  Sauce 

Grapefruit  Salad 

Banana  Pie  Lemon  Syllabub 

Coffee 

^   ^  ^ 

Menus  for  High  Tea  at  Thanksgiving 


I. 


Olives 


Cream  of  Oyster  Soup  Celery 

Chicken  Croquettes 

Peas 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Small  Pumpkin  Pies 

Individual  Charlotte  Russe 

Bonbons  Salted  Nuts  Coffee 

II.    ' 

Fried  Oysters,  Sauce  Tartare 

Truflled  Chicken  Timbales,  Bechamel  Sauce 

Lady  Finger  Rolls 

Fruit  Cup 

Lady  Fingers 

Macaroons 

Maple  Bonbons  Salted  Butternuts 


The 
Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


VOL.  XVIII 


NOVEMBER,  1913 


No.  4 


LIBRARY  AND  LIVING   BOOM 

A  Home  of  the  Past  and  Present 

By  Rosamond  Lampman 


AT  the  end  of  a  quiet  shady  street, 
once  a  village  lane,  and  where  an 
atmosphere  of  old  time  romance 
still  lingers,  stands  the  quaint  home  of 
Mr.  Everett  Fowler  at  Kingston,  N.Y., 
built  when  Dutch  good  fellowship  reigned 
supreme  nearly  two  centuries  ago,  and 
which  bids  fair  to  maintain  its  present 


usefulness  another  hundred  years.  Al- 
though rejuvenated  and  restored  in  many 
ways  its  original  style  has  been  preserved 
and  its  long,  low  lines  and  thick  stone 
walls  present  a  pleasing  appearance 
particularly  fascinating  to  lovers  of  the 
colonial. 

Neither  is  this  house,  standing  where 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


THE   QUAINT  DUTCH  DOOR 

the  flickering  shadows  of  the  tall  trees 
playing  hide-and-seek  on  its  gray  walls 
seem  to  give  it  charcater  like  the  lines  in 
a  dear  old  face,  without  its  touch  of 
history.  In  these  days  of  peace  and 
plenty  in  our  land  it  is  difficult  to  imag- 
ine quiet  Kingston  as  a  centre  of  nat- 
ional trials,  conflicts,  and  impending  dan- 
gers; once  a  fortified  town,  and  once 
raided  and  biUTied  by  the  envious  British, 
while  its  terrified  inhabitants  were 
forced  to  flee  to  the  little  town  of  Hurly, 
three  miles  away,  for  safety.  Among  the 
few  desolate  homes,  left  standing,  were  the 
blackened  walls  of  this  sturdy  house, 
whose  pioneer  owner  had  spent  many 
weary  months  in  building,  and  which  was 
again  bravely  restored  to  its  former  use- 
fulness during  the  Revolution. 

The  front  entrance  of  this  interesting 
house  is  the  key-note  of  its  character 
and  the  very  embodiment  of  Dutch  wel- 
come and  hospitality.  There  is  no  porch 
here,  merely  a  hood  extending  out  over  a^-? 
massive  white  door,  which  swings  in  two 
sections,  adorned  with  a  handsome  old 
brass  knocker;  this,  with  the  charming 
decorative  frieze  above  it,  the  simple 
fluted  pilasters  at  either   side,  and   its 


unomate  stone  steps  is  a  typical  example 
of  an  early  eighteenth  century  front  door. 
Among  the  few  necessary  changes  made 
in  the  exterior,  a  roomy  porch  has  been 
built  to  the  right,  the  straight  lines  of  the 
roof,  picturesquely  broken  here  and  there 
by  dormers,  and  the  solid  paneled  shut- 
ters, exchanged  for  more  modern  ones. 

The  charm  of  the  interior  lies  in  the 
rearrangement  of  the  rooms,  and  the  suc- 
cessful mingling  of  oldtime  fittings  with 
modem  conveniences.  While  the  old 
lines  are  here,  as  are  the  old  fireplaces 
and  cozy,  low-beamed  ceilings,  new  floors 
have  taken  the  place  of  the  time-worn 
ones,  and  tiny  closet-like  bed-rooms  and 
pantries  have  been  opened  into  quaint 
alcoves,  that  give  the  rooms  in  which 
they  open  a  unique  distinction  of  seem- 
ing lai^er  than  they  really  are.  The 
great  front  door  leads  directly  into  one  of 
these  captivating  recesses,  once  a  dark 
and  narrow  hallway;  though  the  stair- 


THE  DUTCH  FIREPLACE 


A  HOME  OF  THE  PAST  AND  PRESENT 


269 


case  ascending  to  the  rooms  above  has 
not  been  altered,  there  are  on  either  side 
wide  archways  opening  into  rooms  that 
light  it  and  give  it  apparent  breadth. 

The  room  at  the  left  of  this  entrance 
is  the  happy  combination  of  library  and 
living  room.  Here  a  closet  has  been 
utilized  into  a  charming  nook,  in  which 
are  built-in  book  shelves,  a  delightful 
old  mahogany  table,  and  a  comfortable 
reading  chair.  The  plastered  walls  are 
painted  a  sage  green,  and  the  ceiling, 
beams,  and  wood-work  a  darker  shade. 
The  floor,  too,  is  stained  this  dark  green, 
over  which  is  placed  green  and  white 
Navajo  rugs.  The  commodious  old 
fireplace,  built  of  Dutch  brick,  brought 
over  froniHoIIand,withfacings  and  hearth 
of  plaster,  is  well  equipped  with  antique 
fittings;  these  and  the  old  Dutch  brass 
box  and  milk-can,  on  either  side  the  wide 
hearth,  accord  quaintly  with  the  shield- 
shape  backs  and  dainty  carvings  of  the 
Heppelwhite  chairs,  the  dignified  grand- 
father's clock,  and  the  simple  white  flut- 
ed curtains  at  the  deep-casement  win- 
dows. 


The  parlor  at  the  right  of  the  little  hall, 
finished  in  colonial  white,  with  polished 
floor  and  Oriental  rugs,  is  a  harmonious 
contrast  to  the  color  scheme  of  the  lib- 
rary. While  the  fireplace  with  its  simple 
shdf  and  plain  paneling  is  the  same  as  the 
other,  there  is  a  decorated  iron  back  with 
the  date,  1764,  in  high  relief  across  the 
face.  This  room  is  replete  with  antique 
furniture,  and  the  soft  cream  forms  an 
effective  back-ground  for  the  time-soft- 
ened hues  of  old  mahogany  and  quaint 
upholstery.  At  the  far  end  of  this  room 
another  simple  alcove,  once  an  old- 
fashioned  bed-recess,  forms  a  fitting 
place  for  the  piano,  and  beyond  this  is 
the  dining-room,  which  was  originally 
kitchen  and  bed-room  combined. 

To  the  lover  of  old-time  table  acces- 
sories there  are  few  rooms  more  interest- 
ing than  this  one;  the  white  plate-rails 
running  around  the  softly  tinted  walls 
hold  a  delightful  collection  of  rare  old 
china,  among  them  many  pieces  of  old 
blue  Staffordshire  with  American  views, 
so  dear  to  the  heart  of  every  American 
collector    of    this    old    ware.     Graceful 


THE  PARLOR   IN   COLONIAL  WHITE 


270 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


decanters  and  frail  old  wine  glasses,  lend- 
ing misty  visions  of  toothsome  pound- 
cake and  rich  red  wine,  grace  the  old- 
time  side-board.  A  quaint  girandole 
with  tinkUng  prisms,  whose  twinkling 
lights  have  illimiinated  many  a  feast,  and 
a  stately  coflfee-um,  once  the  joy  and 
pride  of  some  dear  old  colonial  dame, 
stand  side  by  side.  Polished  old  pewter, 
brass  and  silver, catching  the  glint  of  the 
sunshine,  reflect  whimsically  the  rich 
colors  of  a  unique  collection  of  Dutch 
steins  hanging  blithely  above  them.  Here 
good  Dutch  hospitality  is  again  ex- 
pressed by  the  fire-place  within  a  snug 
recess,  the  swinging  brass  tea-kettle 
over  the  fire,  that  sings  a  merry  little 
tune  on  dull  afternoons,  and  the  cozy 
settle  standing  invitingly  near. 

At  the  south  side  of  the  dining-room  a 
commodious  kitchen  has  been  built, 
equipped  with  all  the  modem  improve- 
ments needed  in  a  well  appointed  kit- 
chen, and  above  this  are  comfortable 
sleeping  apartments  for  the  domestics. 

On  the  second  floor  are  the  family 
sleeping  rooms,  each  fitted,  like  the  low- 
er ones,  with  old-time  fittings.     In  one 


of  these  rooms  one  sees  an  odd  example 
of  fireplaces,  built  without  the  accus- 
tomed high  mantel,  but,  instead,  there  is 
a  quaint  niche  nestling  high  up  on  either 
side  of  the  broad  chinMiey.  In  this  room 
are  many  pieces  of  early  eighteenth  cen- 
tury make,  and  the  heavy  handsome 
mahogany  sleigh-bed,  the  Sleepy-hollow 
chair,  roomy  high-boy,  old  sewing-table, 
and  secretary  with  its  secret  draw,  have, 
each,  their  special  charm,  and  here,  as 
throughout  the  house,  lingers  a  delight- 
ful old-time  atmosphere. 

The  third  floor,  once  an  old-fashion 
attic,  mysterious  and  gloomy,  has  been 
transformed  into  a  comfortable  den.  A 
new  floor  has  been  laid,  and  the  dormer 
windows  light  it.  There  is  a  built-in 
cabinet  with  sliding  glass  doors  running 
the  half  of  one  side,  containing  the  own- 
er's fine  collection  of  curios  and  small  an- 
tiques. The  furniture  here  is  also  in 
keeping  with  the  character  of  the  house, 
and  the  chairs,  tables,spinning-wheel,and 
desk,  as  well  as  the  pictxu'es,  war  imple- 
ments, and  Indian  relics  on  the  walls, 
all  bear  the  hallmarks  of  brave  old  Rev- 
olutionary days. 


Autumn  Days 


■<  •■ 


Oh,  the  grey  days,  the  gold  days. 

When  Autumn's  on  the  wing. 
When  hills  are  dim  with  shrouding  haze. 
And  through  the  mist  you  see  a  blaze 
Where  painted  leaves  still  cling. 

Oh,  the  still  hours,  the  sweet  hours, 

Alone  upon  the  hills. 
The  strange,  enchanted,  mystic  shrine, 
The  air  like  sparkling,  amber  wine 

That  quickens,  stirs  and  thrills. 

Oh,  the  glad  days,  the  sad  days, 
When  summer  has  grown  old. 

The  days  when  joy  and  pain  are  blent 

Into  a  perfect  sweet  content. 
Knowing  the  tale  is  told. 

Miss  Christine  Kerr  Davis. 


BANKING  CELERY  AT  SMELTZER 


California's  Winter  Celery  Crop 

By  Charles  A.  Byers 


DURING  the  past  season  Orange 
County,  CaUfomia,  shipped  to 
eastern  and  northern  markets 
approximately  seven  hundred  carloads 
of  celery,  harvested  from  about  2,000 
acres.  A  carload  of  California  celery,  at 
the  packing  house,  is  worth  approxi- 
mately $600,  making  the  total  amount 
shipped  worth  to  the  growers  something 
like  $420,000  gross,  or  $210  per  acre. 
Although  this  was  one  of  the  most  pros- 
perous seasons  the  state's  growers  have 
ever  experienced,  these  figures  never- 
theless will  give  to  the  outsider  a  fair 
idea  of  how  profitable  the  industry  really 
is. 

The  United  States  every  winter  con- 
sumes tons  of  celery,  as  one  of  the  prin- 
dpal  "trimmings"  of  the  turkey  dinner, 
and  it  is  to  the  growers  of  Southern 
California  that  the  country  looks  for  its 
crispest  and  finest  mid-winter  supply. 
The:gfbwers  here  seed  in  February,  begin 
to  harvest  in  October  and  finish  up  the 
season  again  in  February,  which  means 
that  the  crop  is  harvested  during  the 
real  winter  months  when  the  demand  is 
keenest.     In  this  respect  California  has 


a  considerable  advantage  over  New 
York,  Michigan  and  Florida,  the  other 
leading  celery-growing  sections,  and  con- 
sequently she  receives  somewhat  better 
prices  than  do  the  growers  of  these  other 
states.  The  marketing  of  the  celery 
crops  of  New  York  and  Michigan  ends 
about  the  last  of  October,  on  account  of 
the  cold  winters,  just  at  the  beginning  o£ 
the  California  harvesting  time,  and  the 
Florida  crop  does  not  begin  to  appear  in 
the  market  until  about  February,  com- 
peting slightly  with  the  close  of  the 
California  crop. 

Much  of  the  western  shipments  of  the 
past  season  sold  in  the  markets  of  the 
East  at  55  cents  per  dozen  bunches, 
which  is  considered  a  top  price,  even  for 
the  mid-winter  crop.  In  fact,  the  high- 
est price  ever  before  received  by  the 
California  growers  was  45  cents  per 
dozen  bunches.  The  railroads,  how- 
ever, receive  a  large  proportion  'of  this. 
The  freight  on  a  carload  of  California 
celery  consigned  to  New  York  City,  is 
about  $300,  which  means  that  the  New 
Yorker  must  pay  something  like  $900 
per  carload. 


272 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Of  course,  the  western  grower  does 
not  possess  anything  like  a  monopoly  on 
the  mid-winter  market,  even  if  his  crop 
is  marketed  fresh ;  much  of  the  Michigan 
and  New  York  crops  goes  into  storage  for 
the  holidays,  and  even  though  it  loses 
some  of  its  crispness,  it  offers  strong  com- 
petition. A  consignment  of  the  Cali- 
fornia crop  will  reach  New  York  in 
about  fourteen  days,  and,  therefore, 
within  a  little  more  than  two  weeks 
from  the  time  the  celery  is  taken  from 
the  ground,it  can  be  served  with  aChrist- 
mas  dinner  in  almost  any  part  of  the 
East. 

California  celery  is  shipped  to  every 
state  in  the  Union,  as  well  as  to  nearly 
all  parts  of  Canada.  The  crop  consists 
of  two  varieties,  the  Golden  Heart  and 
the  Green  Top,  the  former  being  an 
early  variety  and  the  latter  a  late 
variety.  The  former  is  grown  in  much 
the  larger  quantity.  A  carload  of  celery 
is  made  up  of  about  200  crates,  each  con- 
taining ten  dozen  bunches.  There  are 
usually  three  grades,  and  the  prices 
naturally  vary  accordingly. 

The  celery-producing  district  of  Cal- 
ifornia is  confined  almost  entirely  to 
Orange  County,  the  small  town  of 
Smeltzer,  located  about  forty  miles 
south  of  Los  Angeles,  constituting  the 
center  of  the  industry.     The  area  is  a 


sort  of  peatland  with  a  mixture  in  some 
localities  of  a  wet  clay.  It  was  originally 
a  great  stretch  of  bog  covered  with 
sloughs  and  creeks,  over  which  luxuriant 
growths  of  vegetation  had  been  preci- 
pitating for  years  layer  upon  layer  of 
peat  ingredients.  To  convert  it  into 
tillable  soil,  it  was  necessary  to  drain 
it,  for  which  flumes  and  ditches,  leading 
to  the  ocean  five  miles  away,  were  con- 
structed ;  and  on  account  of  the  swampy 
nature  of  the  area  these  ditches  are  con- 
stantly maintained. 

The  peatland  portion  of  the  area  forces 
the  celery  plant  into  quick  maturity, 
and  from  such  localities  comes  the 
earlier  part  of  the  winter  supply.  The 
crops  in  the  clay-soil  area  are  developed 
much  slower,  and  in  this  way  the  har- 
vesting season  is  prolonged  over  a  much 
longer  period. 

The  celery-growing  industry  in  Cali- 
fornia was  started  about  eighteen  years 
ago  by  D.  E.  Smeltzer,  a  former  produce 
dealer  of  Kansas  City,  From  that  time 
the  industry  has  steadily  thrived  and 
grown,  and  at  present  there  are  about 
175  celery  growers  in  the  district. 
About  90  per  cent  of  these  growers  are 
banded  together  in  an  organization 
known  as  the  Celery  Growers'  Associa- 
tion of  Orange  County,  with  headquarters 
at  Smeltzer,  and  it  is  through  this  asso- 


GATHEBING  AND  PACKING  CELERY 


DO  MEN  WANT  EFFICIENT  WIVES? 


273 


ciation  that  almost  the  entire  crop  is 
marketed. 

An  acre  of  celery  land  in  this  locality 
is  worth  from  $500  to  $600.  It  will  pro- 
duce, if  the  season  is  good,  about  1,300 
dozen  bunches,  worth  at  the  packing- 
house on  an  average  of  about  20  or  25 
cents  per  dozen  bunches.  The  average 
yield  per  acre  for  the  entire  section,  how- 
ever, is  slightly  less  than  1,000  dozen 
btmches.  Since  the  cost  of  production  is 
rarely  more  than  $35  or  $50  per  acre,  the 
mar^n  of  profit  is  particularly  tempting. 
An  average  crop  is  almost  assured  each 
year,  and  not  a  great  deal  of  care  in  the 
way  of  planting  and  cultivation  is 
required. 

The  sowing  of  celery  seed  begins  in 


February  and  sometimes  continues  until 
the  last  of  April,  depending  upon  the 
variety  sown  and  the  time  that  the  mar- 
keting is  planned  for.  One  acre  sown 
to  seed  will  supply  plants  suflBdent  for 
40  acres.  The  transplanting  is  done 
from  the  first  of  June  until  the  first  of 
September.  The  plants  are  set  in  rows, 
and  are  continually  "banked"  until  the 
harvesting  time,  which  bleaches  the 
stalks  and  causes  them  to  become  white 
and  crisp.  During  the  marketing  season 
the  visitor  to  Smeltzer  will  see  large 
wagons,  heaped  high  withcrates  of  celery, 
forming  a  long  caravan  wending  its  way 
to  the  packing-house,  and  for  months 
the  air,  thereabout,  is  heavily  ladened 
with  the  redolent  odor  of  the  plant. 


Do  Men  Want  Efficient  Wives  ? 

By  An  Observer 


NOT  long  ago  there  appeared  a  per- 
tinent article  bemoaning  the 
dearth  of  good  wives  for  eligible  young 
men.  The  author' of  this  cleverly  ap- 
pealing disquisition  purported  to  be  an 
industrial  magnate,  employing  in  the 
neighborhood  of  four  thousand  men,  who 
in  the  capacity  of  President  of  the  Com- 
pany, partly  through  policy  and  partly 
through  genuine  interest  in  his  fellow- 
kind,  still  retains  a  most  friendly  relation- 
ship with  his  workers.  In  fact,  so  keenly 
alive  is  he  to  their  everyday  problems  and 
manner  of  living  that  oft-whiles  the  rise 
and  fall  of  the  steel  market  sinks  into  in- 
significance as  he  lays  a  discerning  finger 
on  the  matrimonial  fluctuations  of  his 
operatives. 

And  this  is  the  most  recent  report  of 
this  wide-awake  observer.  His  medium 
salaried  men,  earning  from  twenty-five 
to  fifty  dollars  a  week,  are  not  marrying. 
They  are  supporting  comfortable  clubs 
instead  of  families.  His  skilled  mechanic 
and  draughtsman,  likewise  the  young  col- 
lege graduate  who  is  working  in  his  shop, 


because  some  day  he  hopes  to  direct  other 
men  in  other  shops,  are  all  martyrs  to 
bachelorhood  —  and  why?  Because  the 
present  day  young  woman  is  so  dazzled 
by  the  material  glitter  of  the  age  that  she 
has  forgotten  how  to  be  a  man's  helpmate. 
In  short,  the  twentieth  century  god  of 
gold  has  outdistanced  Cupid. 

It  is  indeed  a  sad  commentary  on  the 
passing  of  the  maiden  of  simple  tastes, 
and  I  found  myself  shedding  a  responsive 
tear  as  I  read  the  depicted  loneliness  of 
several  promising  men  doomed  to  a 
'* waiting  at  the  church"  sentence.  In- 
telligent, stalwart,  red-blooded  types  of 
manhood  they  were.  Think  of  the  social 
waste! 

But,  strange  as  it  may  seem,  just  at 
this  juncture,  there  floated  across  my 
mental  vision  the  faces  of  a  half  dozen 
clear-eyed,  whole-souled  girls  whose 
names  are  fast  appearing  on  the  "to  have 
and  to  hold"  waiting  list. 

Two  of  these  young  women  are  grad- 
uates of  a  domestic  science  course,  one 
is  a  qualified  trained  niu^e,  and  others 


274 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


all  wholseome,  broad-hipped  women, ad- 
admirably  built  for  motherhood,  yet, 
somehow,  love  has  passed  them  by. 

Getting  a  firmer  grip  on  the  balance 
wheel  of  sympathy,  I  traversed  the 
ground  of  a  goodly  bit  of  experience  and 
there  brought  up  short,  face  to  face,  with 
a  few  homely  facts. 

Right  here  on  my  own  street  might  be 
said  to  flourish  a  typical  example  of  to- 
day's conditions.  This  street,  let  it  be 
known,  lies  in  the  suburbs  of  one  of  our 
largest  American  cities.  The  residents 
of  our  thoroughfare  are  of  the  good  mid- 
dle class  Americans.  We  own  our  homes 
and  take  justifiable  pride  in  our  surround- 
ings. Here  and^  there  is  sprinkled  a  name 
boasting,  at  least,  the  quality  of  age,  so 
with  true  Eastern  family  reverence,  a  few 
of  us  may  and  do  stiffen  oiu*  backbone 
with  the  thought  that,  if  we  are  not  ac- 
complishing much,  why,  grandfather  did! 

However,  on  the  whole,  we  are  plain 
folk,  just  far  enough  removed  from  ab- 
ject poverty  on  one  hand,  and  the  deca- 
dent smart  set  on  the  other,  to  be  repre- 
sentative of  the  rank  and  file  of  good 
citizenry. 

But  what  is  more  to  the  point,  we  have 
in  our  midst  a  comely  array  of  marriage- 
able daughters.  Here, indeed,  would  seem 
to  be  a  favorite  stamping  ground  for  Dan 
Cupid,  but,alas,  it  is  a  long  time  between 
arrows !  Perhaps  the  authority  on  rising 
steel  and  slumping  matrimony  can  tell 
why. 

For  instance,  on  my  right  lives  Martha, 
a  girl  of  moderately  fine  looks  and  modest 
tastes.  She  is  a  graduate  of  an  old  New 
England  Academy,  noted  for  its  through- 
ness  of  instruction.  Being  an  assiduous 
reader,  she  has  materially  supplemented 
the  foundation  work  of  school  days  by 
much  worth-while  browsing  in  the  field 
of  good  literature.  Martha,  also,  is  a 
lover  of  good  music  and  plays  and  sings 
most  acceptably.  Moreover,  she  is 
thoroughly  domestic  in  her  tastes  and 
when  **mother*'  sees  fit  to  take  a  vaca- 
tion, it  is  she  who  assumes  the  brunt  of 
household    management    and    capably 


mothers  the  younger  members  of  the 
family. 

It  doesn't  seem  a  long  while  either 
since  Martha  had  her  sixteenth  birthday 
party  and  the  flag  was  hoisted  on  the 
family  flag-pole  in  her  honor.  Since 
that  time  the  birthday  fStes  have  been 
fewer  and  less  pronounced.  To  be  really 
candid,  recent  natal  anniversaries  have 
drifted  by  unmentioned,  and  only  what 
the  street  urchin  terms  "snitching"  would 
reveal  the  fact  that  Martha  is  now  fast 
approaching  twenty-nine  years  of  age 
and  no  gaUant  knight  comes  riding. 

Then  take  the  case  of  Margaret,  who 
also  lives  dose  by.  Margaret,  too,  may 
boast  of  average  looks  with  an  additional 
dash  of  vivacity  in  her  make-up  that  is 
most  attractive.  Two  years  ago  this 
likely  yoimg  woman  was  graduated  with 
honors  from  one  of  our  leading  colleges 
for  women.  While  a  conscientious  stud- 
ent, she  is  thoroughly  devoted  to  home 
interests,  and  a  staunch  lover  of  children. 
And  it  is  to  her  credit,  I  record,  that  last 
year  she  took  a  less  advantageous  posi- 
tion as  teacher  in  the  local  High  School 
in  order  to  be  at  home  with  her  people. 
But,  alas  and  alack!  the  confinement  of 
such  sedentary  occupation  is  stamping 
her  with  the  hall-mark  of  school-marmism. 
The  youthful  contour  of  face  is  fast  being 
replaced  by  the  settled  dignity  of  the 
disciplinarian,  which  is  augmented  by  a 
perceptible  loss  in  weight.  Yet  she  has 
signed  for  another  year  at  the  same  in- 
stitution, and  at  present  the  vista  of 
Margaret's  future  looks  much  like  the 
lonely  road  to  Spinsterville. 

Directly  across  the  street  from  Mar- 
garet's home  lives  Helen.  Although 
these  girls  are  about  the  same  age,  they 
are  as  unlike  as  sparrow  and  blackbird. 
Helen  is  of  the  mannish  type,  and  every 
move  of  her  well-poised  body  suggests 
the  keen  and  alert  business  woman  that 
she  is.  Clothed  in  a  trim-fitting,  tailored 
gown,  it  is  a  pleastu"e  to  watch  her  stride 
buoyantly  for  the  commuters'  train  to  the 
city, where  she  is  an  invaluable  assistant 
to  one  of  the  towering  commercial  me 


DO  MEN  WANT  EFFICIENT  WIFES? 


275 


of  the  metropolis. 

Housework  and  Helen  seem  as  incon- 
gruous as  date  palms  and  snow  fields, 
yet,  this  girl  who  openly  avows  a  cordial 
dislike  for  homekeeping  is  engaged  to  be 
married.  One  cannot  but  wonder  how 
a  person  so  thoroughly  inoculated  with 
the  business  microbe  will  respond  to  tlie 
trying  tests  of  domesticity,  or  if  even  a 
lullaby  can  drown  the  insidious  caU  of 
the  office? 

But  the  well-worn  trail  on  our  avenue 
is  to  the  door  of  Dorothy,  or  "Dot",  as 
she  is  familiarly  called,  the  little  steno- 
grapher, who  perhaps  might  best  be 
described  as  thfe  possessor  of  a  well- 
ttimed  ankle  and  a  well-turned  head. 
The  former,  she  dresses  attractively  in  a 
coquettish  pump  with  the  advantageous 
auxiliary  of  a  split  skirt.  The  latter,  she 
adorns  with  the  most  fetching  of  ban- 
deaux and  bows.  She  is  what  the  land- 
faring  male  observer  of  our  suburban 
Rialto  calls  "some-class".,  and  the  sea- 
faring guest  of  masculine  persuasion  who 
makes  our  port  terms  *'a  trim  little 
craft."  Intellectually,  she  prides  herself 
on  doing  Marathons  through  the  season's 
"best  sellers,"  and  what  she  knows  of 
household  accomplishments  might  be 
written  on  the  back  of  a  postage  stamp, 
and  then  leave  sufficient  space  for  the 
lover  of  wide  margins.  vShe  is  neither 
atheltic  or  even  robust  looking,  but  she 
can  purse  her  lips  into  a  challenging  pout, 
and  do  a  high  presstu^e  stimt  with  her 
eyes  that  seem  to  bring  results.  One  by 
one,  the  yoimg  men,  shying  away  from 
a  Beethoven  sonata,  congregate  on  her 
front  porch  to  hear  a  melting  interpre- 
tation of  "Peg  o'  My  Heart"  to  the 
novice-like  accompaniment  of  her  guitar. 
And,  one  by  one,  they  fall  captive  to  her 
nonsense  and  modishness! 

They  are  not  all  feather-brained 
youths  either.  A  few  weeks  ago  none 
other  than  a  hard-headed  college-bred 
man  fell  captive  to  her  wiles,  and  offered 
heart  and  hand.  All  of  which  prompts 
the  italicized  question:  Do  our  young  men 
really  want  efficient  wives  1 


Now,  is  this  street  of  mine  peculiar  or 
exceptional  in  matrimonial  adventures  ? 
I  can  duplicate  this  self-same  state  of 
affairs  in  almost  any  adjoining  locality. 

This  Fall  the  wedding  bells  will  ring 
for  one  of  the  town's  fashionable  daugh- 
ters. She,  fortunately,  has  been  given 
opportunities  for  culture  and  travel  that 
are  extremely  desirable.  But  the  plain, 
dependable  science  of  household  manage- 
ment has  been  totally  ignored.  She  who 
can  writhe  through  the  Turkey  Trot, 
Grizzly  Bear  and  Bunny  Hug  in  ap- 
proved fashion  will,  when  shorn  of  her  so- 
cial accomplishments  and  swagger  trap- 
pings, approach  the  golden  privilege  of 
home-building  with  unprepared  hands 
and  a  tired,  anaemic  body. 

One  may  argue  that  these  are  only  a 
handful  of  blind  fools  and  the  recorder 
of  them  the  victim  of  circumscribed 
vision.  In  justice,  may  I  say  that  she 
has  not  spent  her  days  in  a  two  by  two 
township  putting  a  diamond  finish  on  her 
narrow  views.  In  the  North,  South,  and 
beautiful  golden  West,  she  has  encount- 
ered   similarly   unfortunate    conditions. 

Almost  unfailingly,  in  seven  cases  out  . 
of  ten,  where  the  game  of  wife  hunting 
is  in  progress,  you  will  see  the  willing 
male  partner  following  devotedly  in  the 
wake  of  the  untrained,  peacocky  type  of 
womanhood. 

It  is  all  very  well  to  try  to  soften  our  , 
emotions  by  quoting  the  case  of  the  fine 
moral  specimen  of  modem  Adonis,  earn- 
ing sixty  dollars  per  week,  who  was  cruelly 
jilted  by  some  money-mad  butterfly, 
but  what  of  the  worth-while  girl  who 
is  never  asked. 

Considering  the  fact  that  the  female 
population  is  greatly  in  preponderance 
of  numbers,  there  is  certainly  a  large  per- 
centage of  marketable  feminine  ability 
waiting  to  give  proof  of  efficiency. 

Man  has  found  no  difficulty  in  stand- 
ardizing woman's  morality  in  the  mar- 
riage question.  Is  he  unequal  to  regula- 
ting the  other  requirements  of  wifehood? 

Let  him  brush  some  twentieth  centiuy 
scales  from  his  eyes  and  take  an  X-ray 


276 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING^CHOOL  MAGAZINE 


peep  at  a  woman's  true  worth  when  he 
essays  the  role  of  Romeo. 

For  fear  some  may  suspect  that  the 
writer  is  lingering  in  the  lonely  realm  of 
old-maid-dom,  and  hereby  merely  giv- 
ing evidence  of  a  crab-apple-like  tart- 
ness of  disappointment,  let  me  whis- 
per that  I  am  fast  nearing  the  "fat,  fair, 
and  forty"  brigade  of  married  contingents 
and  here  in  the  soft  light  of  middle  years 
I  like  to  sit  and  tell  the  rosary  of  youth- 
ful satisfactions.  I  like  to  think  that 
at  twenty-one  I  married  for  love  a  poor 
man  and  such  service  as  I  have  been  in 
promoting  his  interests  has  been  adequate 
compensation.  I  like  to  think  of  how  I 
have  been  broadened  and  bettered  by 
motherhood  and  to  give  ardent  thanks 
that  I  early  appreciated  the  unparalleled 


greatness  of  the  service  of  the  devoted 
home-maker. 

This  too,  is  the  heart  history  of  many 
of  my  neighbors,  and,  intuitivdy,  I  sense 
the  same  roseate  dream  in  the  breasts  of 
scores  of  qualified,  home-loving  girls  — 
the  steel  magnate  and  his  discriminating 
employees  to  the  contrary. 

And  there  will  be  a  marked  increase  of 
this  desirable  type  as  soon  as  men  create 
the  demand  and  cease  to  kow-tow  to  a 
trick  of  dress  or  some  bewitching  co- 
quetry of  manner.  And  that  will  be 
when  men's  hearts  have  been  more  se- 
verely pricked  by  divorce  than  by  the 
shafts  of  Cupid,  and  when  e;nshrined  in 
the  secret  souls  of  mankind  an  efficient 
wife  has  come  into  her  own, — emanci- 
pated from  the  fads  and  frills  of  fashion. 


The  Candle  Light 

Oh,  many  a  view  there  is  that  charms, 

And  many  a  pleasing  si^ht. 
The  waving  grain  of  the  hillside  farms 

And  the  £^pple  orchards  bright. 
These  for  a  day  but  when  darkness  falls 

Oh,  then,  through  the  gloom  of  night 
There's  nothing  sweet  as  the  voice  that  calls 

In  a  love-lit  window  light. 

Where  e'er  we  wander,  whatever  we  see. 

Somehow  there's  a  cloud  at  last, 
And  the  heart  that  wearies  and  would  be  free 

Calls  out  for  the  happy  past. 
Oh,  then,  God  grant,  that  we  shall  not  seek 

In  vain  for  the  welcome  sight 
Of  the  smile  we  knew,  and  the  welcome  true 

In  a  love-lit  window  light. 

L.  M.  Thornton. 


Her  Heart  Warming 

By  Mix  Thorn 


THE  open  fire  blazed  hopefully,  as  if 
doing  its  best  to  dispel  the  gloom 
of  the  gray  November  day,  and  to 
turn  the  sedate  old  room  into  a  cheerful 
comfortable  place,  and  Miss  Elizabeth, 
resting  a  well-shod  foot  on  the  fender, 
watched  the  bright  flames  intently,  yet 
there  was  no  answering  brightness  in  her 
face.     Thanksgiving   was    approaching, 


Thanksgiving,  that  day  dedicated  to  fam- 
ily reunions,  feasting  and  jollity,  and, 
she  told  herself  honestly,  that  she  wished 
she  might  go  to  sleep  the  day  before,  and 
not  awaken  until  it  was  all,  all  over  and 
past,  and  she  could  pursue,  undisturbed, 
her  uneventful  routine.  She  turned  to- 
ward the  window,  restlessly,  as  if  the 
change  of  scene  might  give  her  the  de- 


HER   HEART  WARMING. 


277 


sired  change  of  thought,  but  dull  Novem- 
ber's brown  fields  stretched  far,  the  leaf- 
less trees  lifted  bare  branches  to  a  leaden 
sky,  and  there  was  a  promise  of  snow. 

Not  always  had  she  so  dreaded  the  hol- 
iday season,  the  thin  lips  set  in  a  firmer 
line,  not  always,  and  a  sudden  vision 
flashed  before  her  mind's  eye  of  the  gay 
household  of  which  she  was  once  a  part. 
What  preparations  they  had  made,  she 
and  her  sister  and  her  brothers,  aided  and 
abetted  by  both  father  and  mother.  No 
need  then  for  open  fires  to  dispel  the 
gloom,  for  youth  reigned,  and  there  was 
never  a  thought  of  somber  days  to  come. 
How  the  cousins  came  flocking,  gathering 
arotmd  the  long  table,  and  what  appe- 
tites they  all  had.  What  didn't  they  find 
to  be  merry  over! 

Yet  now,  now  she  was  alone  in  the 
house  she  had,  six  months  before,  inher- 
ited from  an  Aunt,  whose  namesake  she 
was;  living  in  a  little  New  England  town, 
in  which  she  was  a  comparative  stranger. 
Her  sister  was  in  California,  one  brother 
in  Paris,  the  other  with  his  absorbing 
family  in  New  York,  and  she  felt  today 
like  that  last  sad  leaf  on  the  tree,  or 
Moore's  pathetic  dreamer,  who  trod  alone 
the  deserted  banquet  hall. 

Old  Katie,  inherited  with  the  house, 
long  a  servant  of  her  aunt,  busied  her- 
self around  the  familiar  kitchen,  touch- 
ingly  anxious  to  concoct  tasty  dishes  for 
the  new  mistress,  sure  of  her  art;  while 
upstairs,  Myra,  the  newly  engaged  little 
maid,  a  product  of  the  village,  set  in  or- 
der the  spacious  bedroom  which  Miss 
Elizabeth  had  selected  for  her  own.  And 
here  it  was,  a  few  moments  later,  that 
Miss  Elizabeth  found  this  light-hearted 
young  person.  She  was  assuring  the 
window  seat,  as  she  vigorously  brushed 
it,  that  her  Bonnie  was  over  the  ocean, 
said  ocean  being  held  considerably  longer 
than  the  composer  had  designed  that  it 
should  be. 

**Cold,  aint  it?"  was  her  remark  as  her 
mistress  entered  the  room.  **I  was  say- 
in'  to  Katie  in  the  kitchen,  that  it  was 
what  my  Aunt  Hat  always  called  real 


nippin'   Thanksgivin'   weather.     Makes 
a  body  feel  good,  though,  don't  it?" 

"Does  it?"  was  the  reply,  and  Miss 
Elizabeth's  tone  was  not  what  might  be 
termed  enthusiastic.  Yet  it  was  not 
her  intention  to  chill  the  little  maid's 
mood,  rather  she  felt  herself  instinctively 
reaching  out  for  any  bit  of  cheer  this 
morning. 

"So  you  like  such  weather,  do  you?" 
she  began  in  what  she  believed  was  an 
encotiraging  tone. 

"I  guess  I  do,"  was  Myra's  instant  re- 
joinder ;"why  it  brings  Thanksgivin',  and 
everyone  is  wanting  that,  that  is  most 
everybody,  for  I  know  some  as  ain't." 

**Do  you,  who  are  they?"  enquired 
Miss  Elizabeth  idly. 

"Well,"  and  Myra  laid  down  her  cloth, 
"there's  old  Mr.  Finch  who  lives  at  the 
hotel.  All  his  folks,  they  tell  me,  is  dead 
and  gone;  he's  'most  eighty.  Nice  old 
gentleman,  with  a  kind  word  for  every- 
body. Wears  a  sort  of  funny,  shiney,  tall 
hat,  and  carries  a  gold-topped  cane,  like 
a  minister. 

Well,  then,  there's  the  widow  Foskett, 
who  lives  at  the  hotel  too, —  her  husband 
was  Doctor  Foskett  that  doctored  here 
in  this  town  for  years.  Why  Gramma 
knew  him  well,  and  my  mother,  too, 
and  I  can  just  sort  of  remember  him  in 
his  old  buggy.  I  guess  she  can't  be  much 
younger  than  Mr.  Finch  is,  but  she's  the 
sort  that  smiles  as  if  she'd  got  into  the 
habit  of  smiling  and  didn't  see  the  use  of 
stopping.  She  wasn't  left  with  much, 
but  she's  got  as  handsome  a  room  as 
you'd  ask  to  see ;  all  furnished  with  things 
from  the  Foskett  house.  She's  not  a 
chick  or  a  child,  but  she's  liked,  she  is. 
She's  asked  me  to  her  room  some 
evenin's  when  I  was  helpin'  out  at  the 
hotel.  My,  but  her  chairs  are  as'restin' 
ones,  as  you  ever  saw. 

Then  there's  that  old  Miss  Abigal 
Morton,  always  called  Miss  Abigal,  who 
lives  alone  by  herself  in  that  little  brown 
house  below  the  church.  She's  kind  'o 
lame,  and  because  it's  a  trouble  to  [get  to 
her  places,  she's  seldom  asked*out.      And 


278 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


then,  well,  then  the  only  other  one  I  can 
recall  now  that  ain*t  anticipatin'  Thanks- 
givin'  much,  is  that  yellow-haired  young 
school  teacher,  Miss  Blake,  who  boards 
at  the  store-keeper's.  She  comes  from 
up  Vermont  way,  and  the  vacation's  too 
short  for  her  to  get  home  and  back  again, 
I  heard  her  telling  some  one." 

"So  all  these  people  are  not  very  glad 
of  Thanksgiving,"  was  Miss  Elizabeth's 
sole  answer.  Yet  two  hours  later,  as 
she  sat  at  her  solitary  lunch  in  the  large, 
quiet  dining  room,  her  thoughts  reverted 
to  those  village  neighbors  of  whom  her 
little  maid  had  spoken  at  such  length. 

Were  they,  too,  like  herself — the  old 
man,  the  two  women,  and  that  yellow- 
haired  school  mistress,  dreading  Thanks- 
giving, striving  to  forget  unforgettable 
things !  Untasted  stood  the  dainty  lunch 
before  her,  as  she  sat  lost  in  a  day-dream. 
And  as  she  mused,  behold  a  miracle! 
She  conjiu'ed  up  a  circle  of  unknown 
guests  around  her  table;  strange  faces  had 
they  all,  but  the  gloom  was  dispelled,  a 
genial  warmth  pervaded  her  being,  and 
her  thoughts  seemed  to  have  peopled  the 
silence. 

**Sure  and  she  ate  no  lunch,"  was  old 
Katie's  comment  to  Myra,  as  together 
they  did  the  dishes,"  only  took  a  sup  of 
tea,  but,  the  poor  lady,  she  looked  a  bit 
happier  when  she  give  me  an  order,  ten 
minutes  since. 

Perhaps  now,  she's  lookin'  forward,  as 
the  quality  docs,  to  Thanksgivin'.  Do 
you  remember,  child,  it's  but  four  days 
off?" 

Myra's  sole  answer  was  an  involuntary 
sigh,  which  she  explained  later  by  re- 
marking—  **I  wish  Katie,  I  do,  that  we 
were  goin'  to  have  a  real  fine  dinner-party 
here;  a  table  just  full,  instead  of  one 
lady,  and  she  such  a  quiet  one." 

Old  Katie,  however,  did  not  hear  her 
young  helper,  as  she  was  busily  clatter- 
ing silver. 

**I  will  want  the  carriage  at  ten,  John," 
said  Miss  Elizabeth,  next  morning,  to  the 
sturdy  young  country  boy  who  was  her 
driver,  "I  shall  make  several  calls,  bring 


the  warm  robes,  and  be  prompt,  John." 

**Yes,  *um,  "was  the  reply,  and  Miss 
Elizabeth,  an  excited  flush  on  her  usually 
pale  face,  went  into  breakfast. 

"To  the  hotel  first,  John,"  and  Miss 
Elizabeth's  even  voice  had  a  curious 
thrill  in  it,  and  to  the  hotel  they  went. 
She  was  gone  but  a  short  time,  yet,  as  she 
entered  the  carriage,  her  mouth  was 
smiling,  and  her  lips  were  smiling,  too. 

**Now  to  the  school  house,  John,"  was 
her  further  command,  "You  know  where 
it  is,  I  suppose. 

"Guess  I  do,Ma'am,"  was  the  cheerful 
rejoinder,  "used  to  go  there  myself,  when 
I  was  a  little  tyke,  every  day  regular. 
Get  up,  boy, —  "  this  last  to  the  shining 
bay. 

"Really,"  said  Miss  Elizabeth,  enter- 
ing the  carriage,  again,  and  tucking  the 
robe  more  securely  around  her  fur-coated 
self,  "this  has  been  a  distinct  sensation, 
calling  on  a  village  school  mistress;  find- 
ing her  just  a  dear  and  charming  girl,  and 
being  received  as  if  I  were,  indeed,  an 
angel  of  light." 

"Do  you  know  where  Miss  Abigal 
Morton  lives,  John?" 

"Good  land,  yes,  old  lady  Morton's 
ain't  more'n  a  quarter  of  a  milefromhere ; 
a  little  brown  house  back  from  the  road, 
lay  lock  bushes  each  side  of  it." 

Straight  up  the  steps  went  erect  Miss 
Elizabeth,  and  the  ancient  knocker  an- 
nounced her  in  noisy  fashion,  bringing 
the  frail  little  owner  of  the  brown  house 
to  the  door,  sweetly  surprised  to  see  her 
visitor.  Here  it  was  that  Miss  Elizabeth 
lingered  longest,  but  it  was  not  yet  twelve 
o'clock,  when  John  received  his  final  or- 
der, "And  now,  home,  John." 

Before  her  long  mirror  stood  Miss  Eliz- 
abeth, arranging  her  soft  graying  hair  — 
"Was  it  a  sudden  impulse!"  she  spoke 
aloud,  as  if  to  an  unseen  presence  in  the 
still  room,  "It  was  unlike  myself,  but. 
but  I  am  glad  they  are  coming,  I  can 
truthfully  say  I  am  glad  they  are  all  com- 
ing —  positively  I  seem  to  be  almost 
looking  forward  to  Thanksgiving." 

"We  a,re  to  have  four  guests  for  dii\ner 


HER   HEART  WARMING. 


279 


Thursday,  Katie,"  announced  Miss  Eliz- 
abeth, that  same  evening,"  and  I  am  sure 
I  can  count  upon  you  to  give  us  a  de- 
licious dinner.  You  will  like  a  larger 
family.  I  understand  no  real  cook  enjoys 
cooking  for  one  only." 

From  her  comer  by  the  kitchen  closet, 
round-eyed  and  smiling  Mjrra  watched 
and  listened.  John  had  reported  where 
he  had  driven  his  mistress  that  morning, 
and  the  little  maid  was  sure  she  knew 
who  were  the  expected  guests. 

Miss  Elizabeth  awoke  early  next  day, 
with  a  pleasant  sense  of  anticipation, 
which  remained  with  her,  though  her 
first  peep  out  of  the  window  disclosed 
the  fact  that  a  leaden  sky  gloomed  above 
the  village,  while,  a  chill  wind  blustered 
around  the  old  house. 

"We  must  manage  to  have  enough 
brightness  inside,  to  make  us  forget  the 
clouds  to-day,"  she  thought,  as  she 
dressed.  "I  told  John  to  call  at  the  hotel 
at  ten,  bring  them  here,  and  then  go 
straight  away  for  the  others. 

''Dinner  will  not  be  until  two  o'clock, 
so  my  guests  will  have  a  chance  to  get 
nicely  rested  and  acquainted,  and,  first 
of  all,  to  become  acquainted  with  me." 

A  few  moments  before  the  expected 
hour.  Miss  Elizabeth,  in  her  dainty  white 
gown,  stood  in  the  wide  entrance  hall, 
waiting  to  receive  the  first  comers,  for 
already  the  rattle  of  wheels  sounded 
down  the  drive;  and  it  was  she.  gracious, 
welcoming,  who  held  out  both  hands  to 
the  shyly  smiling  little  old  lady,  who  was 
being  gallantly  assisted  up  the  stone 
steps  by  a  dignified  old  gentleman. 

''I  am  so  very  glad  to  see  you  both," 
cried  Miss  Elizabeth,  and  in  her  tones 
there  was  the  ring  of  sincerity."  Oh,Mrs. 
Foskett,were  you  at  all  cold!  There  is 
such  a  change  in  the  weather." 

**Cold,  oh, no,"  chirped  the  newcomer, 
**I  enoyed  every  minute  of  the  drive,  and 
so  did  Mr.  Finch,  now  didn't  you? "ap- 
pealing to  her  companion. 

"Certainly  I  did,"  with  a  quaint  bow 
toward  Miss  Elizabeth,  "it  was  delight- 
ful in  that  comfortable  carriage." 


Half  an  hour  later,  wheels  again  sounded 
on  the  drive,  bringing  the  other  expected 
ones;  soon  after  Miss  Elizabeth's  guests 
were  gathered  in  the  library  before  the 
open  fire  —  the  four  older  people  and  the 
pink-cheeked  girl.  Miss  Abigal,  sweet 
faced  and  white  haired,  held  Helen  Blake's 
slim  hand  in  her  own  wrinkled  one, 
while  she  visited  with  her.  Mr.  Finch 
pored  eagerly  over  a  rare  old  book  he  h^ 
discovered  on  a  remote  shelf,  while  Mrs. 
Foskett  knitted  on  a  wonderful  muffler 
designed  for  a  village  child. 

And  bless  me,  what  a  cheerful  tableful 
they  were,  when,  at  last,  dinner  was  ready, 
old  Katie  and  beaming  Myra  serving 
them.  Mr.  Finch  told  some  anecdotes 
of  his  boyhood.  Mrs.  Foskett's  eyes 
brimmed  with  tears,  even  as  she  smiled, 
when  recounting  some  of  her  physician- 
husband's  experiences  in  his  country 
practice.  Miss  Abigal  encouraged  the 
little  teacher  to  tell  them  of  the  doings 
of  her  most  lovable,  yet  most  mis- 
chievous pupil,  and  Miss  Elizabeth  was 
an  appreciative  listener. 

How  changed  was  her  familiar  dining 
room;  it  was  not  the  candles  with  their 
rosy  shades  nor  yet  the  softly  pink 
chrisanthemum  center-piece  that  altered 
all,  it  was  the  happiness  and  good  cheer, 
that,  like  the  spirit  of  Thanksgiving,  un- 
seen yet  pervasive,  made  itself  felt. 

The  wintry  dusk  was  closing  down, 
when  they  drove  away  to  their  several 
homes,-  and  Miss  Elizabeth  stood  at  the 
hall  window  looking  out  at  the  tall  pine 
trees,  which  the  snow  flakes  were  thickly 
powdering.  Still  she  smiled  as  she  re- 
called the  good-byes  she  had  just  heard. 

"It  has  been  such  a  perfect  day  for  me, 
I  hope  you  enjoyed  it  half  as  much," 
Mrs.  Foskett  had  whispered. 

"I  expected  to  be  so  homesick  and 
miserable,  dear  Miss  Elizabeth,"  the 
young  girl  cried,  "and  I've  had  the  lovli- 
est  time.     Of  course  I'll  come  to  see  you 


soon. 


»» 


"Oh,  dear  lady,  you've  given  an  old 
man  a  wonderful  day  to  remember,  a  bit 
of  his  past  brought  back,"  and  Mr.  Finch's 


280 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


voice  was  not  quite  steady. 

"It's  a  good  deal  to  make  four  people 
as  happy  as  you  have  this  Thanksgiving,*' 
Miss  Abigal  murmured,  her  faded  blue 
eyes  misty,  "how  many  times  I  shall  re- 
live it." 

Miss  Elizabeth  was  once  more  alone, 
yet  she  felt  no  sadness.  Her  rooms 
seemed  to  re-echo  with  her  guests 
happy    voices,  and  a  glow  was  at  her 


heart. 

"It  was  my  little  maid  that  showed 
me  what  I  should  do,  my  little  maid," 
she  humbly  owned,  "and  this  day  shall 
be  but  a  beginning.  I  will  not  abuse  my 
stewardship,  my  latch  string  shall  be  out: 
how  many  lonely  ones  there  are  that 
need  me,  and  my  hospitality,  even  as  I 
need  them;  oh,  the  joy  of  being  a  lady 
bountiful,  oh,  the  jo}?'  of  it." 


Two  House-Mothers 

By  Flora  Huntley 


THERE  is  a  rule  of  Physics  taught 
in  every  school,  to  the  effect  that 
action  and  reaction  are  equal ;  that 
what  is  gained  in  power  is  lost  in  time. 
In  the  Literature  class  this  law  is  further 
emphasized.  It  was  Emerson  who  said : 
"For  everything  you  have  missed  you 
have  gained  something  else;  and  for 
everything  you  gain,  you  lose  something." 

Men,  in  the  business  world  everywhere 
recognize  this  principle  and  conserve 
their  time,  economize  intelligently,  and 
expend  where  it  will  bring  results.  They 
look  to  the  future  rather  than  to  the  work 
of  a  single  day,  and  determine  what  will 
pay  in  the  long  rim.  But  the  women  in 
the  home  too  often  plod  through  their 
work  without  reflection,  under  the  im- 
pression that  the  harder  the}^  work  the 
better  for  the  family.  The  less-  hired 
done,  the  greater  the  financial  resources. 
This  lack  of  intelligence  in  the  household 
problems  is  what  makes  the  wife  a  drudge 
or  an  invalid,  when  a  little  reflection 
would  establish  a  system  that  would 
bring  far  greater  returns  to  the  whole 
family. 

Health,  leisure  and  money:  these  are 
the  points  of  consideration  for  the  aver- 
age mother,  usually  considered  in  the 
reverse  order:  how  to  save  money;  how 
to  save  time;  how  to  save  her  own 
strength.  What  she  forgets  is  that  she 
does  one  at  the  expense  of  the  other,  and 
that  a  saving  of  money  may  mean  an 


illness    or    other  untoward  loss. 

Next  door  to  mc  there  lives  a  woman 
who    does    "her    own"  work:  laundry, 
cooking,  baking,  preserving  and  house- 
cleaning.     She  makes  her  own  and  her 
daughter's  clothes,  from  a  tailored  suit 
to  an  evening  gown,  and  she  does  it  well. 
She  is  literally  wife,  mother,  cook  and 
char-woman,  as  well  as  a  good  companion 
to  her  husband.     But  she  seldom  passes 
a  week  without  a  sick  headache,  and  the 
doctor's  bills  are  no  small  item  of  ex- 
pense.    This  she  considers  tmavoidable. 
When  her  friends  remonstrate  and  tell 
her  Ae  works  too  hard,  she  says  there  is 
no  other  way;  that  they  can  not  afford  to 
hire  any  help  whatever;  that  her  husband 
does  not  like  baker's  bread;  the  house 
must  be  kept  in  order  for  the  sake  of  the 
example  to  the  children.     They  are  eager 
to  help  mother,  but  she  is  so  tired  and 
nervous  that  the  effort  to  teach  them  is 
only  an  added  strain,  and  she  sometimes 
has  to  leave  home  for  a  rest  of  a  day  or 
two.     Before  she  was  married  she  had  a 
music  class,  but  she  dropped  that  work, 
because  she  had  no  time  for  practice. 
She  looks  old  and  tired,  but  declares  there 
is  a  satisfaction  in  knowing  she  has  done 
her  full  duty  to  her  family.     But  has  she  ? 
Across  the  street  her   neighbor  man- 
ages quite  differently.     She,  too,  keeps 
no  regular  servant,  but  she  believes  that 
the  laundry,  the  bakery,  the  cannery  and 
soap-factory  have   taken   the   place   of 


TWO  HOUSE-MOTHERS 


281 


eighteenth  century  methods,  when  all 
these  mantifacttiries  were  carried  on  in 
the  farmer's  kitchen.  She  tests  and  in- 
vestigates, to  find  the  most  wholesome 
and  sanitary  conditions,  and  then  buys 
intelligently.  She  spends  little  time  on 
fancy  salads  and  desserts,  but  serves  sim- 
ple fruits  or  nuts,  or  a  sweet  at  the  end  of 
the  meal.  Once  a  week  the  laundryman 
calls  for  the  '*flat  pieces,'*  including  the 
everyday  napkins  and  tablecloths.  Once 
in  two  weeks  a  woman  comes  to  the  house 
to  wash  the  underclothes,  aprons  and 
handkerchiefs.  She  also  cleans  the  kit- 
chen and  bath-room.  This  takes  half  a 
day  and  costs  a  dollar.  Sometimes  she 
is  kept  a  whole  day,  if  there  are  shirt- 
waists to  be  done  up,  dainty  stocks  or 
linen  to  iron  or  extra  cleaning  to  be  done. 
Twice  a  month  a  vacuum  cleaner  goes 
over  all  rugs,  sofa  pillows  and  curtains. 
This,  too,  costs  a  dollar,  but  it  eliminates 
all  sweeping  except  in  the  kitchen  and  the 
brushing  up  of  crumbs  in  the  dining- 
room.  The  fuel  bill  is  reduced  almost 
one-half,  and  the  doctor  never  visits  this 
home.  Before  the  mother  was  married 
she  was  something  of  an  artist  and  she 
still  has  time  to  paint  a  set  of  dinner  cards 
or  a  Christmas  motto,  if  an  order  comes, 
and  in  this  way  she  pays  for  many  a  day's 
cleaning.     She  looks  younger  and  hap- 


pier every  year  and  her  husband  and 
children  regard  her  as  a  comrade  and 
playfellow  rather  than  as  an  overworked 
servant.  "Poor  mother,  how  tired  you 
look!"  is  never  a  comment  in  that  home. 

When  will  women  learn  that  it  is  poor 
economy  to  overwork,  to  undertake  too 
great  a  variety  of  occupations,  to  neg- 
lect a  talent  or  to  abandon  a  field  where 
one  is  a  skilled  worker?  What  business 
man  would  try  to  be  his  own  bookkeeper, 
stenographer,  clerk  and  salesman,  and, 
at  the  same  time,  do  the  sweeping  in  his 
store  and  the  washing  of  windows?  It 
would  be  extravagance  to  spend  his  time 
in  this  way. 

The  mother  is  the  greatest  asset  of  the 
home.  Her  most  valued  capital  is  health 
and  leisure  to  guide  her  children.  A 
home  is  much  more  than  a  restaurant  or 
a  dormitory,  and  the  woman,  who  spends 
a  great  deal  of  time  on  the  three  meals  a 
day,  with  the  accompaning  dishwashing, 
is  putting  the  profession  of  cook  higher 
than  that  of  mother  and  teacher  A 
little  reflection  and  a  careful  expenditure 
of  money  will  bring  greater  returns  tothe 
family  than  an.  enlarged  bank  account, 
and  thiS  memory  of  a  happy  helpful 
mother  is  a  greater  inspiration  to  the 
young  man  than  the  recollection  of  a 
clean  floor  or  a  good  dinner. 


The  Wane  of  The  Year 


When  crimson  fires  of  summer  wane 

Upon  the  misty  hills, 
And  grey  clouds  brim  with  silver  rain 

The  cruses  of  the  rills, 
Let  not  the  fires  of  love  burn  dim; 

Though  fades  the  summer's  glow, 
For  love  there  is  no  farewell  hymn, 

Her  roses  never  blow. 

The  white  smoke  of  the  autumn  fires 

Shall  drift  across  the  miles, 
Upborne  from  summer's  ashen  pyres 

On  hill,  in  woodland's  aisles, 
But  love  within  the  heart  shall  burn 

When  summer's  lips  are  cold. 
When  to  the  earth  the  fields  return 

Their  hoards  of  gathered  gold. 


A.  W»  S« 


How  One  Bride  Learned  Elfficiency 


By  Etta  C.  Dunbar 


THE  first  winter  of  our  married  life 
my  husband  and  I  decided  to  give  a 
seriesof  small,  weekly  dinners  to  our 
friends,  on  what  has  been  considered  by 
them  a  rather  novel  plan.  Our  idea  was 
that  these  dinners  should  be  simple,  in- 
formal and  as  inexpensive  as  possible, 
but  as  perfect  as  we  could  make  them. 
Out  of  a  list  of  our  friends,  either  indi- 
vidual or  mutual,  he  was  to  select  the 
guests,  not  less  than  two  nor  more  than 
four,  and  I  was  not  to  know  who  they 
were  to  be.  I  was  to  select  a  menu  out 
of  some  cook  book  or  magazine  and  fol- 
low it  to  the  letter,  regardless  as  to  whe- 
ther the  dishes  were  all  new  or  not,  and 
he  was  not  to  know  what  it  was  to  be. 
A  younger  sister  was  to  help  me,  for  our 
mutual  benefit. 

As  one  important  consideration  was 
economy,  instead  of  buying  expensive 
flowers  at  the  green  house  we  used  a 
house  plant  that  was  in  bloom,  or  flowers 
from  the  garden  when  they  were  to  be 
had.  Even  the  simplest  of  these  could 
be  arranged  artistically  and  looked  very 
pretty. 

Also,  as  my  kitchen  was  not  well 
equipped  with  utensils,  I  was  to  get  what- 
ever was  necessary  or  would  help  me 
materially  in  my  work.  The  plan  worked 
splendidly.  My  sister  and  I  learned  to 
prepare  a  great  number  of  dishes  that 
were  new  to  us;  we  became  quite  inge- 
nious in  meeting  emergencies ;  we  became 
very  systematic  in  our  work;  my  kitchen 
was  suoplied  with  modem  utensils  that, 
otherwise,!  might  not  have  had  for  years, 
and,in  a  short  time,we  were  able  to  serve 
a  dinner  to  our  most  distinguished  guests 
■quite  as  calmly  as  we  had  hitherto  enter- 
tained our  most  intimate  friends;  and 
we  met  our  friends  in  a  more  intimate 
way  than  we  could  have  done  otherwise. 

I  kept  a  record  of  each  dinner,  giving 
date,  guests,  centerpiece  and  menu,  and 


now  when  we  glance  over  this  note  book 
we  recall  little  inciJunts  and  experiences 
that  give  us  pleasure  as  well  as  remind 
us  of  some  of  our  mistakes. 

The  following  is  the  record  of  the  first 
of  such  dinners: 
Date:  Friday,  March  3,  1911 
Guests:  Miss  Blair,  Mr.  Jones 
Centerpiece:  Cyclamen 

Menu 

Tomato  Soup        Crackers 

Baked  Fish        Hollandaise  Sauce 

Shadow  Potatoes       Cole  Slaw 

Fig  Pudding 

CoflFee 

This  one,  you  see,  was  very  simple. 
Those  following  became  a  little  more 
elaborate;  for  instance,  the  record  for 
Friday,  April  7,  1911,  is, 
Guests:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Brown  and  small 

son,  James. 
Centerpiece:  Home  grown  violets. 

Menu 

Clear  Soup        Crackers 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb  (stufifed) 

Mashed  Potatoes       Baked  Cauliflower 

Brown  Bread 

Lettuce  Salad    French  Dressing   Cheese  Fingers 

Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding     Cream  Sa«ce 

Coffee 

Another,  Friday,  May  5,  1911. 
Guests:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles. 
Centerpiece:  Blue  myrtle  and  daisies. 

Menu 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup        Croutons 

Panned  Chicken    Asparagus    Mashed  Potatoes 

Lettuce,  Tomato,  Radish  Salad 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 

Brown  Bread 

Lemon  Jelly       Whipped  Cream       Angel  Cake 

Coffee 

Then  the  last  one  of  that  year  on  May 


HOW  ONE  BRIDE  LEARNED  EFFICIENCY 


283 


27,  1911. 

Guests:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Smith  and  small 

daughter. 
Centerpiece:  Pansies  and  daisies. 

Menu 

Tomato  Soup        Crackers 
Roast  Leg  of  Lamb  Mint  Sauce 

Creamed  New  Potatoes 
New  Peas  in  Turnip  Cups 
Radish  and  Lettuce  Salad 

Brown  Bread  Sandwiches 
Fresh  Strawberries  and  Cream    Sunshine  Cake 

Coffee 

I  recall  that  at  one  of  the  first  of  these 
dinners  I  put  the  French  dressing  on  the 
lettuce  before  the  meal  was  served  and, 
of  course,  by  the  time  it  was  to  be  eaten 
it  was  quite  wilted.  Since  that  exper- 
ience I  know  positively  that  such  a  salad 
must  not  be  mixed  until  just  before  it  is 
served.    Again,  on  one  occasion  when  I 


served  Maryland  chicken,  while  I  cooked 
the  chicken  even  a  trifle  longer  than  the 
recipe  advised,  it  was  not  quite  as  tender 
as  it  should  have  been.  From  my  own 
experience  I  learned  that  chicken  should 
be  cooked  as  long  as  that  particular 
chicken  needs  cooking  or  until  it  is  ten- 
der, regardless  as  to  whether  the  cobk 
book  says  a  longer  or  shorter  time. 
Now,  too,  I  can  judge  quite  accurately  as 
to  what  amount  will  be  required  for  any 
small  number  of  persons,  and  I  am  less 
apt  to  worry  that  there  won't  be  quite 
enough. 

On  the  whole,  we  considered  our  experi- 
ment as  an  unusually  successful  one,  one 
that  gave  us  a  great  deal  of  real  pleasure 
as  well  as  experience  that  has  since  proved 
to  be  invaluable. 


The  Making  of  Woman 


In  **  The  Independent. 


ft 


When  now  the  high  gods  had  perfected  man^ 
The  making  then  of  woman  they  began; 
But  no  material  durable  was  left, 
So  from  the  slight  and  subtle  she  was  weft. 

And  they  took  counsel;  for  her  soul  was  drawn 
The  mystery  and  the  moment  of  the  dawn. 
And  for  her  fragile  face  they  sagely  took 
The  primrose  opening  pale  with  upward  look; 
And  for  her  motion  stayed  a  fleeting  star, 
Therefore  so  bright  she  seems  and  so  afar! 

They  gave  her  the  first  leap  of  the  loosed  deer, 
Then  rustling  secret  of  the  fringe  mere, 
And  elfin  mischief  of  the  guilty  glade. 
Lighting  whereon  a  mortal  grows  afraid. — 
The  dance  of  fays  upon  illumined  bank, 
The  frolic  and  the  freak,  and  moonshine  prank. 

The  tremble  of  first  dew  upon  the  grass, 
The  yearning  of  the  moon  as  she  doth  pass; 
Then  the  suspense  of  the  o'erbrimming  billow 
And   dream   of   noon-breeze    upon   wild-flower 

pillow. 
They  gave  her  golden  music's  dyin^  strain, 
The  quiet  prattling  mercy  of  the  rain. 

They  stole  her  heavy  sorrow  from  the  sea. 
And  yet  from  running  brooks  their  laughing  glee, 
And  thus  with  subtle  touch  and  yet  most  sure. 
They  fashioned  a  frail  thing  that  shall  endure. 

By  Stephen  PmLU?s, 


Welcome   and   Unwelcome   Guests 

By  Mary  H.  Tufts 


IT  requires  as  much  tact  and  common 
sense  to  be  an  agreeable  guest,  as  it 
does  to  be  an  agreeable  hostess. 

Many  of  the  bugbears  of  entertaining 
arise  from  the  thoughtlessness  or  incon- 
siderateness  of  guests. 

One  of  the  most  important  facts  to  re- 
member is  that  uninvited,  unannounced 
guests  are  seldom  welcome. 

The  hostess  and  her  family  must  neces- 
sarily make  certain  changes  in  their  daily 
routine,  for  the  pleasiu-e  and  comfort  of 
guests;  and  they  should  always  have  the 
privilege  of  knowing  when  to  expect 
guests,  so  that  they  may  make  these 
changes  and  plans  at  the  least  possible 
inconvenience  to  themselves. 

The  prospective  guest  should  always 
consult  his  hostess  as  to  the  most  con- 
venient time  for  a  visit;  and,  once  the 
plans  are  made,  should  not  break  the 
engagement,  except  for  reason  of  illness, 
or  other  unforeseen  circumstances  which 
absolutely  prevent  making  the  visit  at 
the  time  planned  for. 

The  guest,  who  comes  unannounced, 
often  finds  that  the  house-wife  already 
has  a  number  of  guests ;  or  that  illness  in 
the  family,  or  other  circumstances  make 
a  guest  a  burden. 

The  thoughtful  person  will  not  plan  to 
visit  on  farms  during  the  very  busy  sea- 
sons of  haying  or  harvesting;  for  at  these 
times,  unless  plenty  of  help  is  employed 
indoors  (and  it  seldom  is),  entertaining 
cannot  help  being  burdensome. 

There  is  a  class  of  people  who  make 
"visits  of  convenience,"  so-called.  They 
wish,  perhaps,  to  go  to  an  adjoining  city 
or  town  to  do  shopping,  have  dentistry 
done,  or  to  visit  the  dressmaker.  So,  for 
their  own  convenience  and  interests, 
they  plan  to  visit  some  acquaintance  or 
friend.  In  other  words,  they  make  use 
of  the  home  of  the  friend  or  acquaintance, 
as    they  would  a  hotel  or   restaurant. 


Perhaps  they  are,  also,  anxious  to  save 
hotel  bills,  and  therefore  depend  upon  the 
friend  for  this  hospitality. 

In  the  coimtry,  also,  to  some  extent, 
there  exists  the  custom  of  visiting  among 
persons  whose  parents,  or  some  more 
remote  ancestors  have  had  some  business 
dealings  or  chance  acquaintance  with 
one  another.  Not  long  ago  a  friend  of 
mine  was  visited  by  a  family  of  four,  from 
a  distant  place,  because,  as  they  said,  — 
"We  used  to  know  yotir  grandfather;  and 
worked  for  him  when  we  were  first  mar- 
ried.'* So,  perforce,  my  friend  enter- 
tained them  for  a  week,  at  great  incon- 
venience; though  she  had  never  before 
even  heard  of  them;  much  less  did  she 
owe  them  social  favors. 

Happily  for  the  modem  hostess,  this 
old-time  code  of  hospitality  is  giving  way 
to  a  more  sane  and  agreeable  one.  The 
laws  of  good  society  and  politeness  now 
permit  her  to  entertain  whoever,  and 
whenever  she  pleases.  She  is  not  ex- 
pected, by  reasonable  or  sensible  people, 
to  entertain  other  than  friends,  or  those 
to  whom  she  is  indebted  in  a  social  way. 

Visiting  in  a  servantless  household, 
one  may  often  aid  the  hostess  in  light 
household  duties;  or,  if  there  are  chil- 
dren in  the  family,  may  entertain  them 
for  a  little  while  each  day.  Thus,  while 
leaving  your  hostess  to  attend  to  neces- 
sary household  duties,  you  may,  also, 
pass  the  time  pleasantly,  and  aid  her  at 
the  same  time. 

However,  the  guest  should  be  careful 
not  to  introduce  games  or  pastimes,  which 
would  be  the  means  of  soiling  or  injuring 
the  children's  clothing;  thereby  proving 
a  hindrance  rather  than  a  help  to  the 
mother.  Neither  should  a  guest  give 
children  candy,  or  other  edibles,  unless 
she  is  siu"e  the  mother  is  willing. 

Comparatively  few  women  enjoy  hav- 
ing a  guest  watch  them  about  the  cook- 


$9i 


WELCOME  AND  UNWELCOME  GUESTS. 


285 


ing  or  other  housework;  therefore  it  is 
well  to  keep  out  of  the  kitchen  or  culin- 
ary department,  unless  one  is  specially 
invited  to  be  there. 

Some  people  show  the  utmost 
thoughtlessness  in  visiting,  in  their  use 
of  the  furnishings  of  their  room.  It 
certainly  is  very  vexing  and  disheartening 
for  a  careful  housekeeper  to  have  bedding 
and  furniture  carelessly  injured  by  guests 

Not  long  ago  a  friend  told  me  that  a 
recent  guest  had  stained  every  nice 
damask  and  huck  towel  in  the  guest- 
room, with  greasy  cosmetic  salves  and 
lotions.  This  same  guest  also  had  the 
habit  of  lying  on  the  bed  with  boots  on, 
and  with  the  spread  or  the  white  wool 
blankets  unprotected  from  soiling  by 
boots  and  clothing.  The  consequence 
was  that  the  hostess  was  obliged  to  wash 
two  pairs  of  very  dirty,  white,  wool 
blankets  after  the  guest's  departure; 
though  the  blankets  had  been  laundered 
but  a  short  time  before. 

Fruit  and  ink-stains  on  bedding  or 
table-covers  are,  except  in  occasional 
instances,  needless;  and  the  guests  who 
are  heedless  in  this  respect  cannot  ex- 
pect to  be  gladly  entertained  in  the 
average  household. 

Every  family  will  appreciate  the  tact 
of  the  guest  who  absents  himself  from  the 
family  circle  for  a  time  each  day,  so  that 
they  may  talk  over  family  or  business 
plans,  in  private. 

The  greatest  care  should  be  exercised 
by  guests  not  to  make  unnecessary  or 
untimely  demands  upon  the  business- 
hours  of  families  in  which  they  visit. 
With  many  people  it  must  nearly  always 
be  "Business  before  pleasure;**  and  inter- 
ruptions during  business-hours  are  not 
only  an  annoyance,  but  may  mean  con- 
siderable financial  loss  as  well. 

It  is  very  inconsiderate  to  visit  a  friend 
who  is  preparing  for  a  journey;  imless, 
perhaps,  there  are  servants  to  do  the 
packing  and  other  preparations. 

If  it  is  unavoidable  that  a  guest  arrive 


at  mealtime,  or  after  regular  mealtime, 
it  is  a  courtesy  to  get  that  meal  on  the 
dining-car,  or  at  a  hotel  or  restaurant; 
but  the  hostess  should  be  informed  in 
advance  of  such  an  intention;  so  that  she 
may  not  be  put  to  the  trouble  of  prepar- 
ing an  extra  meal,  or  of  keeping  a  meal 
waiting.  It  has  been  said  that  the  pres- 
ent generation  is  a  *'Set  of  Pood-Cranks." 
I  am  not  prepared  to  argue  that  topic; 
but  would  say  that  a  guest  should  not 
make  his  hostess  feel  that  she  is  to  cater 
for  a  '* Health-Food  Sanitarium."  Nor 
should  he  manifest  disappointment  or 
dissatisfaction  with  such  food  and  enter- 
tainment as  his  hostess  is  able  to  provide. 

Servants  should  be  treated  most 
politely ;  and  only  necessary  services  asked 
of  them. 

Nearly  every  year  a  family  of  city 
people  visits  one  of  my  friends  who  reside 
in  the  country.  They  make  so  many 
demands  of  the  one  servant  employed, 
that  it  is  difficult  to  get  a  servant  for 
more  than  one  season,  if  it  is  known  that 
this  family  is  to  visit  her. 

Guests  should  not  expect,  or  allow, 
their  personal  clothing  to  be  laundered 
in  the  home  in  which  they  are  visiting; 
even  though  their  hostess  may,  through 
courtesy,  offer  to  have  it  done. 

Unpleasant  and  embarrassing  things 
may  happen  in  the  best-regulated  house- 
holds. The  tactful  guest  is  apparently 
oblivious  to  such  incidents;  or,  at  least, 
is  discreetly  tolerant  of  them. 

One  should  not  accept  hospitality,  and 
then  criticise  those  who  have  bestowed  it. 

If  other  guests  are  present,  one  should 
make  himself  as  agreeable  as  possible  to 
them. 

In  other  words,  the  welcome  guest  is  he 
who  enters,  unobtrusively,  into  the  pleas- 
tires  and  interests  of  the  family  in  which 
he  visits ;  but  is  careful  not  to  meddle  in 
family  affairs,  which  do  not  concern  him, 
nor  thoughtlessly  or  carelessly  to  cause 
inconvenience  in  the  family.  Courtesy 
is  a  virtue. 


236 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


THE 

BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE 

OF 
Culioary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics 

Subscription  $1.00  per  Year  Single  Copies,  10c 
Foreign  Postage  :  To  Canada,  20c  per  Year 
To  OTHER  Foreign  Countries,  40c  per  Year 

TO  SUBSCRIBERS 

The  date  stamped  on  the  wrapper  is  the  date 
on  which  your  subscription  expires;  it  is,  also,  an 
scknowledgment  that  a  subscription^  or  a  renewal 
of  the  same,  has  been  received. 

Please  renew  on  receipt  of  the  colored  blank 
enclosed  for  this  purpose. 

In  sending  notice  to  renew  a  subscription  or 
change  of  address,  please  give  the  old  address 
as  well  as  the  new. 

In  referring  to  an  original  entry,  we  must  know 
the  name  as  it  was  formerly  given,  together  with 
the  Post-office,  County,  State,  Post-office  Box, 
or  Street  Number. 

■  ■  — ^— ■  ■  »i  I  ■■■    ■  p—     ■■  ■  ■  ■■■■  I  -  — ^^^»^^^ 

Stattmtnt  0/  mBn$r$kip  and  ma»mg§ituHt  ms  rtqmirgd  by 
tkt  Act  •/  Cmgrtu  0/Angutt  24,  igta. 

Editor;  Janet  M.  Hill. 
Business  Managers :  R.  B.  Hill,  B.  M.  Hill. 

Owners : 

B.  M.  Hill,  Janet  M.  Hill,  R.  B.  Hill. 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

published  ten  times  a  year  by 

The  Boston  Cooking- School  Magazine  Co., 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

BimBKD  AT  Boffrow  Poer-orncv  as  Sbcohd-clam  Mattsb 


A  Prayer  for  Beauty 

In  "  The  Forum:* 

Give  her  such  beauty  of  body  and  mind 

As  the  leaves  of  an  aspen-tree 
When  they  vary  from  silver  to  green  in  the  wind, 

And  who  shall  be  lovely  as  she? 
Then  give  her  the  favor  of  harking  to  love 

As  the  heart  of  a  wood  to  the  call  of  a  dove! 
And  give  her  the  beauty  of  following  free 

As  the  cloud  in  the  sky  or  a  wave  in  the  sea! 

Give  her  such  purity  vivid  with  light 

As  the  wonder  of  passion  can  be, 
Aware  in  the  day  and  rapt  in  the  night, 

And  none  shall  be  lovely  as  she! 
O  give  her  the  fortune  a  lover  may  find 

In  the  sharing  of  beauty  of  body  and  mind, 
The  paramount  beauty  of  giving,  that  she 

May  immortally  give  it! — but  give  her  to  me! 

By  Witter  Bynnbr. 


TO  OUR  READERS 

A  SUBSCRIPTION  to  the  Cooking 
School  Magazine  should  be  re- 
garded as  a  prudent  investment.  As  an 
essential  part  of  the  housewife  *s  equipment 
it  has  special  fitness.  The  Hotel  World 
and  The  Caterer  are  special  publications 
for  hotel  keepers.  Both  in  text  and 
advertising  matter  these  periodicals  ap- 
peal to  the  interests  of  those  who  cater 
to  the  traveling  public.  In  like  manner 
the  Cooking- School  Maga/ine  is 
adapted  especially  to  the  needs  of  the 
general  housewife  everywhere. 

We  wish  to  invite  your  attention 
once  more  to  the  fact  that  the  price  of 
this  periodical  has  not  been  changed. 
Other  publications,  with  scarcely  an 
exception,  have  increased  their  price 
of  subscription,  to  keep  pace  with  the 
constantly  rising  price  of  everything 
else.  A  few  days  ago  the  prosperous 
farmer  in  Maine,  who  for  a  long  time 
has  furnished  us  butter  at  a  fixed  price, 
wrote  that  on  account  of  the  general 
shortage  in  crops  he  must  advance  the 
price  of  butter  five  cents  per  pound.  We 
accepted,  for  the  goods  were  worth  the 
increase.  But  it  occurred  to  us  that, 
though  the  cost  of  everything  that  goes 
into  the  contents  and  make-up  of  this 
publication  has  been  largely  increased, 
no  one  has  ever  suggested  that  a  rise  in 
the  price  of  a  yearly  subscription  would 
be  agreeable.  At  any  rate,  we  propose 
to  stick  to  our  price  unless  unforseen 
conditions  arise. 

In  the  meantime,  help  us  give  you  a 
better  publication  by  renewing  your  own 
subscription  promptly  and  by  putting, 
occasionally,  a  copy  of  the  magazine  into 
the  hands  of  some  friend  or  neighbor 
who  may  wish  to  subscribe.  Your  sub- 
scriptions provide  only  a  part  of  the 
means  we  need,  to  attain  results  com- 
mensurate with  your  wants.  Help  us, 
also,  by  patronizing  our  advertisers. 
Only  special,  first-class,  guaranteed  art- 
icles find  a  place  on  our  advertising  pages. ' 
The  fact  that  you  buy  and  use  the  goods 


EDITORIALS 


287 


there  represented,  as  you  are  able  to  do 
so,  is  the  sole  inducement  for  these 
people  to  give  us  a  share  of  their  adver- 
tising business.  You  can  do  much  to 
cause  them  to  think  well  of  us,  and, 
at  the  same  time,  receive  siire  good  to 
yourdves. 

Do  not,  except  for  good  and  sufficient 
reason,  discontinue  your  subscription  at 
this  time  because  of  high  prices,  the 
cost  of  livingi  and  a  desire  to  reduce 
expenses.  This  magazine  deals  ex- 
pressly with  matters  of  economy  and 
should  be  of  constant  value  to  you. 
The  good  health  of  your  family  is  to  be 
put  first  in  consideration.  Look  out 
for  the  realization  of  sound  health;  it 
comes  largely  from  fresh  air  and  proper, 
wholesome  feeding. 

WOMAN'S  AFFAIRS 

WOMAN'S  affairs  are  rapidly  com- 
ing into  prominence.     Her  place 
and  part  in  a  progressive  civilization  is 
the  subject  of  greatest  concern  today, 
and  especially  the  interest  in  Domestic 
Science  is  steadily  growing  and  spreading 
far  and  wide.     We  are  just  beginning 
to  see  how  many  branches  the  subject 
has  and  how  significant  and  far-reaching 
it  is  in  scope.     Even  the  importance  of 
good  cooking,  for  instance,  can  not  be 
over-estimated.     As  recently  stated  by 
an  English  writer  of  note,  **A  good  cook 
should  know  much  about  food,  as  well 
as  cooking,  and  should  also  know  some- 
thing   of    physiology.     How    few    are 
really  conversant  with  either  food  values 
or  the  digestibility,  of  foods,  and  yet, 
to  a  knowledge  of  both,  has  to  be  added 
a  broad  common  sense,  for  there  are  no 
fixed  and  definite  rules  that  can  be  safely 
followed.     There  are  foods  which  may 
easily  be  digested  by  some  and  are  quite 
indigestible  to  others,  while  one  style  of 
cooking   may   suit   certain   people   and 
quite  upset  others.     It  is  not  difficult 
however,  with  a  good,  sound,  general 
knowledge    to    accommodate    any    of 
these  various  idiosyncrasies  to  individ- 
ual   requirements. 


Cooking  may  also  be  a  high  art  as 
well  as  a  science,  for  it  appeals  to  the 
three  senses  of  sight,  taste  and  smell. 
The  appetite,  and  even  the  digestion, 
is  stimulated  when  art  is  applied,  and 
no  cook  can  be  said  to  have  attained  a 
high  place  who  is  not  an  artist.  Color 
and  decoration  enter  very  largely  into 
the  effect  and  value,  as  well  as  the 
appearance  of  what  we  eat,  therefore 
these  deserve  to  be  carefully  studied. 

It  is  almost  impossible  to  over-rate 
the  importance  of  good  cooking.  It 
promotes  health  and  energy  and,  as 
an  economic  factot*,  its  value  can  hardly 
be  expressed  in  gold,  but  it  also  goes  so 
far  to  promote  the  happiness  of  our 
homes  that  it  is  very  difficult  to  appre- 
ciate why  such  an  art  has  been  so  long 
neglected. 

Another  very  tangible  reason  why 
cooking  should  be  studied  is  that  it 
pays.  Good  cooks  are  in  demand, 
and  are  likely  to  be  in  greater  demand 
in  the  future,  and  if  the  emolument 
is  not  high,  at  present,  the  reason  is  not 
far  to  seek,  for  we  must,  in  fairness, 
recognise  that  the  ability,  either,  is 
not  high.  The  remuneration  is  certain 
to  rise  with  the  standard  of  fitness.*' 

THE  CALL  TO  PATRIOTISM 

As  It  Comes  to  the  American  Houswife 

TO  view  properly  a  picture  one  has 
to  stand  at  a  distance  from  it  to 
get  its  perspective.  So  it  is  with  history 
One  must  look  back  through  the  years 
to  distinguish  events  and  people  in  their 
real  importance.  The  makers  of  our 
country  did  not  see  themselves  in  the 
heroic  light  of  the  future.  Their  lives 
were  full  of  hard,  monotonous,  unroman- 
tic  toil. 

Few  of  us  are  called  to  pack  up  our 
cherished  pieces  of  family  mahogany 
and  fine  china  to  go  a-pioneering.  Let 
us  hope  that  increasingly  few  of  us  are 
called  to  bear  and  rear  sons  to  be  shot 
down  by  the  bullets  of  war.  Was  there, 
however,  ever  an  age  which  called  more 
loudly    for    living    for    one's    country? 


288 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Pure  milk,  untainted  meat,  full  weight 
from  the  grocer,  "swat  the  fly,"  are 
subjects  which,  perhaps,  do  not  sound 
as  romantic  as  fighting  Indians  and 
pioneering,  but  they  are,  undoubtedly 
just  as  romantic  in  real  living. 

Whatever  else  the  children  of  the 
future  may  see  as  they  look  back  at  these 
eariy  years  of  the  twentieth  century, 
we  may  be  sure  that  the  woman  ques- 
tion will  stand  out  from  the  background. 
Woman  in  political  life,  woman  in  the 
industrial  world,  woman  in  her  relation 
to  the  high  cost  of  living  .  .  .  almost  all 
the  questions  of  the  day  before  our 
nation  have  to  do  with  the  woman 
problem.  Think  you  that  the  question 
of  the  cost  of  living  would  take  the  place 
that  it  now  does  in  our  national  political 
life,  if  women  had  shown  the  same 
efficiency  in  eliminating  waste  from  the 
home  that  men  have  shown  in  elimi- 
nating waste  from  business.  Many  an 
otherwise  intelligent  woman  thinks  that 
it  is  niggardly  to  look  out  for  waste  in 
her  own  kitchen.  Many  a  woman 
wishes  that  she  might  earn  an  income 
outside  her  home  and  never  thinks  of 
the  money  she  might  acquire  within 
the  home  by  eliminating  waste. 

In  America  during  the  late  decades 
it  has  been  the  custom  to  educate  the 
children  of  the  family  who  showed  signs 
of  brains  and  ability,  away  from  country 
life.  Compare  the  forestry  and  agri- 
culture of  Germany,  where  thought  and 
intelligence  are  applied  to  every  square 
inch  of  land.  The  results  are  wonder- 
ful. America  is  just  beginning  to  open 
her  eyes.  In  the  same  way  that  she 
is  beginning  to  see  the  need  of  intelli- 
gence in  forestry  and  agriculture  so, 
too,  is  she  beginning  to  see  the  need  of 
the  same  in  the  home.  Time  was  when 
the  woman  with  gifts  scorned  to  use 
them  in  her  daily  household  tasks. 
These  were  a  thing  apart,  and  her 
methods  of  housekeeping  and  household 
management  were  as  unsuited  to  her 
present  day  needs  as  her  grandmother's 
one   silk   gown   to   her   more   complex 


social  demands  of  the  present  day. 

The  call  to  the  patriotic  women  of 
the  land  is  sounding  loudly  American 
courtesy  and  taste,  American  marriages 
and  family  life,  American  housewives, 
are  acquiring  disrepute  among  the 
nations  of  the  world.  Many  of  the 
criticisms  are  unjust,  perhaps,  yet  is  not 
the  very  fact  that  they  are  uttered  a 
challenge  to  every  thinking  woman  who 
would  keep  alive  in  our  land  the  high 
standards  which  are  our  inheritance? 
Is  there  anything  more  needed  in  our 
land  than  the  intelligent  housewife, 
willing  to  put  into  her  task  of  home- 
making  the  same  amount  of  care  and 
thought  which  her  husband  puts  into 
his  profession?  It  is  a  work  worthy  of 
woman's  best  gifts.  e.  s.  e. 


It  has  long  been  conceded  that  all 
progressive  races  are  well-fed.  The 
French  have  long  excelled  in  culinary 
matters  as  well  as  in  thriftiness.  They 
have  paid  enormous  taxes  and  indem- 
nities and  are  now  foremost  among  the 
bankers  for  the  world.  They  seem  to 
have  acquired,  by  long  practice,  the 
habit  of  economy,  of  eliminating  waste 
and  making  a  little  go  far.  And  herein, 
perhaps,  lies  the  secret  of  the  future 
prosperity  and  well-being  of  civilized 
nations. 

How  to  cultivate  the  small  garden 
and  how  to  utilize  and  make  the  most 
of  every  thing  so  produced  is  a  matter 
of  vital  impprtance  to  masses  of  people 
everywhere.  How  to  make  plain,  simple 
dishes  palatable  and  nourishing  is  the 
great  desideratum  in  the  culinary  art, 
the  last  word  that  defines  the  frugal, 
thrifty  housewife. 


After  all  we  are  living  in  really  pros- 
perous times.  The  harvest  ,in  general, 
has  been  good.  Neither  famine  nor 
war  threatens.  People  who  want  to 
work  are  employed,  while  business  of 
all  kinds  seems  everywhere  in  flourishing 
condition. 


Seasonable  Recipes 

By  Janet  M.  Hill 

T  N  all  recipes  where  flour  is  used,  unless  otherwise  stated,  the  flour  is  measured  after 
-*-  sifting  once.  Where  flour  is  measured  by  cups,  the  cup  is  filled  with  a  spoon,  and  a 
level  cupful  is  meant.  A  tablespoonful  or  teaspoonful  of  any  designated  material  is  a 
LEVEL  spoonful. 


Anchovy- and- Egg    Canapes 

ROLL  trimmings  of  puff  paste, left 
after  cutting  out  patties  or  a  vol- 
au-vent,  to  a  little  less  than  one- 
fourth  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  stamp 
out  with  a  sharp  cutter.dipped  in  boiling 
water,  into  diamond  or  other  shapes. 
Chill  and  bake  till  done.  Beat  one-third 
a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream  and  gradually 
beat  in  enough  anchovy  paste  to  tint  and 


flavor  as  desired.  When  the  pufE-paste 
shapes  are  chilled,  spread  slightly  with 
the  paste,  set  a  slice  of  hard-cooked  egg 
in  the  center  of  each,  and  pipe  paste  on 
the  edge  of  the  "crust;"  finish  with  a 
figure,  cut  from  a  shoe  of  truffle  or 
pickled  beet,  at  the  center  of  the  egg,  and 
fine-chopped  truffle  or  beet  in  the  open 
spaces.  If  truffle  be  used,  dip  the  slices 
of  egg  in  French  dressing  before  setting 
them  in  place.     Serve  as  a  first  course 


ANCHOVY- AND-EGG   CANAPfeS 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


or  in  the  place  of  soup. 

Chicken-and-Tomato  Bouillon 
Cut  an  onion,  two  stalks  of  celery, 
half  a  green  pepper  and  half  a  small  car- 
rot in  thin  slices;  let  cook  in  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  until  softened  and 
slightly  yellowed;  add  three  branches  of 
parsley  and 'the  yellow  rind  o£a  lemon, 
with  a  pint  of  water  or  chicken  broth, and 
let  simmer  twenty  minutes;  add  two 
quarts  of  rich  chicken  broth,  the  liquid 
drained  from  two  cans  of  tomatoes  (use 


the  boiling  point,  add  the  oysters  and 
let  cook  until  they  are  plump,  the  edges 
are  ruffled  and  the  water  is  again  boiling. 
In  the  meantime  make  a  cream  sauce  of 
one-third  a  cup,  each,  of  butter  and  flour, 
a  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  salt,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  three 
pints  of  milk.  Mix  the  oysters  with  the 
sauce  and  serve  at  once.  One  or  two 
stalks  of  celery  and  half  an  onion  may  be 
scalded  in  the  milk  of  which  the  sauce 
is  made. 


OYSTER  VOL-AU- VENT 


none  of  the  tomato  pulp),  the  crushed 
shells  of  several  eggs,  and  the  slightly- 
beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  also  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.  Mix  all  together  thor- 
oughly, then  stir  constantly  over  the 
fire  until  the  boiling  point  is  reached;  let 
boil  five  minutes,  then  draw  to  a  cool 
part  of  the  range  and  let  stand  to  set- 
tle. Skim,  then  strain  through  a  napkin 
laid  over  a  colander.  Reheat  before 
serving. 

Cream  of  Oyster  Sbu^  !', 
Pour  two  cups  of  cold  water  over  k 
quart  of  oysters;  take  each  oyster  in  the 
fingers,  rinse  in  the  water  and  remove 
bits  of  shell  if  present.  Strain  the  water 
through  a  napkin.     Heat  the  water  to 


Fresh  Codfish,  Boiled,  Oyster 
Sauce 

The  cut  of  a  large  fish  just  back  of 
the  head  is  thought  to  be  the  best  for 
boiling  or  steaming.  Set  the  fish  on  a 
rack  in  a  steam  kettle,  the  piece  is  thick 
(comparatively)  and  will  take  about  six 
minutes  per  pound  to  cook.  A  large 
quantity  of  water  is  unnecessary;  this 
should  be  lukewarm  that  the  skin  o£  the 
'fish  may  not  contract.  Dress  on  a 
napkin  (to  absorb  the  liquid).  Surround 
the  fish  with  hot,  boiled  or  steamed  pota- 
toes of  uniform  size.  Serve  oyster  sauce 
in  a  bowl  apart. 

Oyster  Sauce 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


291 


Pour  a  cup  of  water  over  a  pint  of 
oysters,  rinse  the  oysters  in  the  water 
aQd.removing  shell  that  may  be  present, 
strain  the  water  through  cheese  cloth, 
doubled  and  laid  over  a  sieve.  Heat 
the  oyster  'iquid  to  the  boiling  point, 
add  the  oysters  and  shake  until  the 
liquid  again  boils  and  the  edges  of  the 
oysters  curl ;  drain  off  the  broth  and  keep 
the  oysters  hot.  Melt  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  butter;  in  it  cook  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  Hour  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt;  when  frothy  add  the  oyster  liquor, 
cooled  for  the  purpose,  and  enough  of  the 


son  these  with  salt,  paprika,  lemon 
juice  and  onion  juice  if  desired;  roll  in 
flour,  then  in  an  egg, beaten  and  diluted 
with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and 
then  in  soft,  sifted  bread-crumbs.  Fry 
in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  tissue  paper. 
Dispose  in  the  center  of  a  cold  dish  on 
a  hot  napkin.  Surround  with  sliced 
celery  and  green  peppers,  dressed  with 
mayonnaise,  or  French  dressing,  plain 
or  made  with  mustard.  Use  one  pepper 
to  the  choice  part  of  a  bunch  of  celery. 


OF  FISH.  FRIED.  WITH   CEI^RY   AND  PEPPER   SALAD 


fish  broth  to  make  one  pint  in  all;  stir 
until  boiling;  then  beat  in  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  butter  in  bits. 

Oyster  Vol-au-Vent 
Prepare  one  quart  of  oysters  as  for 
oyster  sauce;  make  the  sauce  in  the 
same  manner,  except  for  the  liquid  use 
one  cup  of  the  oyster  liquor  and  three- 
fourths  a  cup  of  cream;  stir  the  oysters 
into  this  sauce  and  use  to  fill  a  case  made 
of  puff  paste. 

Small  Fillets  of  Fish,  Fried,  with 

Salad 

Cut  fresh  fish,  freed  of  skin  and  bone, 

into  strips  about  an  inch  wide  and  an 

inch  and  a  half  to  two  inches  long;  sea- 


Remove  skin  and  bone  of  any  firm 
fish,  such  as  Cod,  Turbot  or  Brill,  and 
mince  flesh  fine.  Stew  an  onion  in  some 
butter  until  tender  and  then  pound  it  in 
a  mortar  with  4  oz.  of  butter,  adding  a 
little  at  a  time.  Soak  6  oimces  of  bread 
crumbs  in  milk,  squeeze  dry  and  add  it 
to  the  onion  mixture.  Season  the  mix- 
ture to  taste  and  mix  in  two  well-beaten 
eggs.  Last  of  all,  put  in  the  minced 
flsh  and  mix  all  well  together;  shape  into 
sausage,  and  fry  to  a  golden  brown. 

Fried  Oysters  that  are  Different 

(Mra,  LiUle' 

Wash  and  dry  the  oysters,  dip  in  a  - 
beaten  egg  diluted  with  two  tablespoon- 
uls  of    milk,  and    roll    in    fresh-grated 


292 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


cheese.  Stand  them  aside  for  ten  min- 
utes and  then  dip  a  second  time.  After 
second  dipping,  roll  in  fine,  soft  bread 
crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  drain  and 
serve  with  celery. 

Poached  Eggs  with  Anchovy  Paste 

Pour  boiling  water  into  an  iron  frying 
pan;  add  about  a  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
break  in  one  or  more  strictly  fresh  eggs. 
Add  more  water,  if  necessary,  that  the 
eggs  may  be  covered.  Do  not  allow  the 
water  to  boil  during  the  cooking.  As 
soon  as  an  egg  seems  "set"  on  the  bot- 
tom, run  a  spatula  beneath  it,  that  it 
may  float  in  the  water.  Have  ready  a 
round  of  toast  for  each  egg;  spread  the 
toast  with  butter,  lightly,  and  then  with 


Chicken  Timbales 

Pass  the  uncooked  breast  of  a  chicken 
through  a  food  chopper  two  or  three 
times;  add  four  eggs,  one  after  another, 
beating  in  each  egg  thoroughly  before 
adding  another;  beat  in  one  pint  of 
cream,  gradually,  and  add  about  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper. 
Turn  the  mixttire  into  buttered  timbale 
molds  and  let  cook  on  many  folds  of 
paper,  surrounded  by  boiling  water,  until 
firm  in  the  center.  The  water  must  not 
boil  during  the  cooking.  Let  stand  out 
of  the  water  to  contract  a  little,  then 
unmold.  Serve  with 

Bechamel  Sauce 


anchovy  paste.    Set  an  egg  on  each 
round  and  serve  at  once. 

Chicken  or  Veal  Sausage 

Take  equal  weights  of  meat,  fat 
bacon  and  crumb  of  bread;  pound  in  a 
mortar,  then  press  through  a  sieve.  To 
one  pound  add  two  beaten  eggs  and  one 
cup  of  thick  cream;  mix  all  together 
thoroughly,  then  beat  in  two  whites  of 
eggs,  beaten  dry,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  season.  Press  into  a  bag  or  make 
into  small  flat  cakes.  Broil  over  a  very 
moderate  fire,  or  roll  in  flour  and  sautfe 
in  hot  fat. 


Melt  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter;  in 
it  cook  one-fourth  a  cup  of  flour,  half^a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper; 
add  one  cup  of  cream  and  one  cup  of 
chicken  broth  and  stir  until  boiling. 
Fine-chopped  truffles  or  half  a  cup  of 
canned  mushrooms,  cut  in  halves,  are  a 
good  addition  to  the  sauce. 

Braised  Fowl  with  Oysters 
Truss  the  fowl  as  for  roasting;  spread 
slices  of  fat  salt  pork  over  it,  then  wrap 
in  buttered  paper  and  tie  secure.  Put 
a  cup  of  fine-sliced  vegetables  in  an 
earthen  baking  dish  (use  onion,  celery. 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


STUFFED  APPLES 


carrot  and  parsley,  with  bits  of  pork) ; 
add  a  cup  of  hot  veal  or  chicken  broth, 
put  in  the  prepared  fowl,  cover  with  a 
second  cup  of  vegetables  and  the  cover 
of  the  dish;  let  cook  very  slowly  until 
the  fowl  is  tender.  It  will  probably 
take  about  three  hours  for  a  fowl  one 
year  old.  Heat  two  dozen  oysters  to 
the  boiling  point.  Make  a  sauce  like 
the  oyster  sauce  given  above,  using 
oyster  broth  and  the  broth  in  the  dish; 
add  the  oysters,  then  beat  in  the  beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs  diluted  with  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  cream.  Unwrap  the  fowl,  set 
it  on  a  serving  dish ;  pour  over  the  sauce 
with  the  oysters  and  serve  at  once. 

Roast  Chicken  with  Rice 
Croquettes 


Truss  a  young  chicken  neatly.  Do 
not  use  any  dressing.  Baste  frequently, 
to  keep  every  portion  moist  and  juicy. 
For  the  croquettes  cook  three-fourths  a 
cup  of  blanched  rice  in  about  two  and 
a  half  cups  of  milk  or  broth,  or  part 
tomato  purte  and  part  broth.  If  broth 
be  used,  add  a  tablespoonful,  each,  of 
chopped  green  or  red  pepper,  and  of 
onion  yellowed  in  two  tablespoonful  s  of 
butter,  with  the  broth.  Season  with 
salt  and  paprika.  More  liquid  may  be 
needed.  The  rice  should  be  quite  moist 
when  done.  Turn  on  to  a  buttered  plate 
and  when  cooled  somewhat  form  into 
balls  or  other  shapes.  Egg-and-bread 
crumb  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with 
the  chicken  in  place  of  dressing  or 
potato. 


BOAST  CHICKEN.  WITH  BICE  CBOQUETTES 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Wax  Beans,  Creole  Style 

(Mrs.  McKay) 

Have  ready  two  cups  of  cooked  wax 
beans;  add  two  medium-sized  tomatoes, 
peeled  and  cut  in  pieces,  or  three-fourths 
a  cup  of  canned  tomato,  freed  of  juice, 
half  a  clove  of  garlic  or  onion  chopped 
fine,  one  teaspoonful  of  fine-chopped 
parsley,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
about  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two 
cherry  peppers  cut  in  strips;  let  cook 
until  the  tomato  is  done.  Cooked 
chayotes  may  be  prepared  in  the  same 
manner  by  simply  substituting  this  vege- 
table for  the  beans 

Jellied  Apples 

Pare,  quarter,  core  and  slice  enough 


unmold  and  decorate  with  cream  about 
half  whipped.  Serve  as  a  dessert  dish, 
or,  without  cream,  with  meat. 

Stuffed  Apples 

For  eight  apples  chop  two  slices  of 
candied  pineapple,  a  dozen  cherries  and 
a  dozen  blanched  almonds;  let  cook  in  a 
little  sugar  and  water,  stirring  occasion- 
ally until  it  is  softened  somewhat,  Jtnd 
the  water  is  evaporated.  Make  a  syrup 
of  one  cup,  each,  of  sugar  and  water  and 
in  it  cook  the  apples,  cored  and  pared. 
Turn  the  apples  often  and  do  not  leave 
them  until  they  are  tender.  If  neglected 
the  shape  of  the  apples  will  be  lost.  As 
the  apples  become  tender  throughout,  lift 
them  to  a  serving  dish:  dredge  with 
sugar  and  when  all  are  done  set  into  the 


APPLE  PIE— SEE  PAGE  3 


apples  to  make  a  generous  quart;  dispose 
these  in  an  earthen  baking-dish,  with 
sugar,  in  alternate  layers.  Use  about  a 
cup  and  a  quarter  of  sugar.  Pour  in 
about  half  a  cup  of  water,  cover  close 
and  let  bake  about  three  hours  in  a  very 
slow  oven.  Have  ready  one-fourth  a 
package  of  gelatine,  softened  in  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  dis- 
solved in  hot  juice  poured  from  the 
apples,  or  in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  boiling 
water;  lightly  mix  the  dissolved  gelatine 
through  the  hot  apple  and  turn  into  an 
earthen  dish.     When  cold  and  jellied. 


oven  to  glaze  the  outside;  it  will  take 
but  two  or  three  minutes.  Put  the 
prepared  fruit  in  the  centers;  if  any  be 
left,  add  it  to  the  syrup  and  let  the  whole 
reduce  a  little,  then  pour  it  around  the 
apples.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Hgney  Cookies 

Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter;  beat  in 
three-fourths  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  e^ 
and  one  yolk,  beaten  together,  half  a 
cup  of  strained  honey,  the  grated  rind 
of  a  lemon  and  three  cups  of  flour  sifted 
with  four  teaspoonfuls  o£  baking  pow- 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


JELLIED   APPI-ES 


der.     More    flour    may    be    required. 

The  dough  should  be  firm  enough  to  be 
easily  handled.  Knead  slightly  (a  little 
at  a  time),  roll  into  a  thin  sheet  and 
cut  into  cakes.  Set  the  shapes  in  a 
buttered  pan;  beat  the  white  of  an  egg 
(left  for  the  purpose)  a  little,  and  use 
it  to  brush  over  the  cookies  in  the  pan, 
then  at  once  sprinkle  on  some  fine- 
chopped,  blanched  almonds  and  dredge 
with  granulated  sugar. 

Molasses  Doughnuts 

Sift  together  two  cups  and  a  half  of 
flour,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  cinna- 
mon and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Stir  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  into  half  a 
cup  of  thick  sour  milk  and  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  molasses;  add  one  egg,  beaten 
light;  and  stir  into  the  dry  ingredients. 
Keep  the  mixture  as  soft  as  possible. 
Take  upon  the  board  in  small  portions. 


knead  slightly,  roll  into  a  sheet,  cut  into 

shapes  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Meringued    Croustades    of    Fruit 

Maltaise 

Cut  stale  sponge  cake  into  squares  of 

a   size   suitable   for   individual   service. 

Remove  a  square  piece  from  the  center 
of  each  to  form  a  case  with  walls  one- 
fourth  an  inch  thick.  Fill  the  center 
with  fresh  fruit  (raspberries,  strawber- 
reis  or  peaches  are  the  best)  or  with 
preserved  fruit  cut  in  small  pieces. 
With  preserved  fruit  a  variety  of  fruits 
with  cooked  sultana  raisins  may  be 
used.  Add  also  a  Httle  fruit-syrup 
flavored  according  to  taste.  Sprinkle 
fresh  fruit  with  sugar.  Cover  with 
meringue  and  set  into  a  cool  oven  to 
cook  the  meringue;  at  the  last,  let  the 
meringue  color  delicately.  In  making 
the  meringue  beat  the  egg  whites  dry. 


MERINGUED  CROUSTADES  OF  FRUIT.  MALTAISE 


296 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


then  gradually  beat  in  a  rounding  table- 
spoonful  of  granulated  sugar  for  each 
white  used.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  Sur- 
round the  cases  set  on  individual  plates 
with  a  little  of  the  fruit  left  over  after 
filling  the  cases. 

Bride's  Cake  (Small  loaf) 
Beat  half  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream; 
gradually  beat  in  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
sugar,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of 
sifted  flour,  sifted  again  with  a  rounding 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and, 
lastly,  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten 
dry.  Bake  in  a  loaf  nearly  one  hour. 
When  cold,  cover  with  confectioner's 
frosting,  then  decorate  with  ornamental 
frosting,  putting  it  in  place  with  bag  and 
tube,  and  a  sugar  cupid. 

Confectioner's  Frosting 

Boil  one-fourth  a  cup,  each,  of  sugar 
and  water  about  three  minutes,  then  beat 
in  sifted  confectioner's  sugttr,  to  make  a 
frosting  that  will  remain  in  place  on  the 
cake. 

Ornamental  Frosting 

(Mm.  JohDion) 
Boil  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  a 
cup  of  boiling  water  to  240.  F.  Stir  the 
sugar  and  water  until  the  sugar  is  melted, 
cover  and  let  boil  rapidly  three  or  four 
minutes, —  to  wash  down  the  grains  of 


sugar  —  then  put  in  the  thermometer 
and  cook  as  above.  Have  ready  the 
white  of  one  egg,  about  half-beaten; 
pour  in  the  syrup  very  gradually  — 
through  a  strainer — beating  constantly, 
meanwhile.  When  all  the  syrup  has 
been  beaten  in  and  the  frosting  is  quite 
cool,  beat  in  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice.  When  cold  the  frosting  will  hold 
its  shape  perfectly,  and  flow  smoothly 
and  freely  through  a  tube.  The  cake 
shown  in  the  illustration  was  decorated 
with  a  leaf-tube.  The  frosting  was  tinted 
delicately,  but  not  evenly,  with  a  little 
rose-leaf  color  paste  and  was  put  on  to 
simulate  roses  and  a  bow  knot.  The 
top  is  finished  with  a  cupid  —  bought  at 
a  confectioner's,  the  base  surrounded 
with  white  asteroids.  If  the  frosting 
can  not  be  used  at  once,  cover  the  top 
of  the  bowl  with  a  damp  cloth.  This 
frosting  works  well. 

Puff  Paste 
Weigh  out  half  a  pound  (one  cup)  of 
butter  and  half  a  pound  (two  cups)  of 
pastry  flour.  Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
the  flour  into  a  dredger  for  use  when 
rolling  the  paste.  Add  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  to  the  rest  of  the 
flour.  Rinse  an  earthen  bowl  and  a 
wooden  spoon,  or  the  hands,  in  hot  water, 
then  in  cold,  letting  cold  water,  changed 


BRIDE'S  CAKE 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


297 


once  or  twice,  stand  in  the  bowl  some 
time,  or  until  the  bowl  is  chilled.  Then 
refill  the  bowl  with  cold  water,  and  in 
it  work  the  butter,  with  the  hand  or 
spoon,  until  it  is  pliable  and  waxy 
throughout.  Then  pat  it  into  a  thin 
rectangular  cake. 

Take  off  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
the  butter,  and  set  the  rest  aside  in  a 
cool  place  until  ready  to  use. 

With  the  tips  of  the  fingers  or  a  knife 
work  the  two  tablespoonftds  of  butter 
into  the  flour  and  salt.  Then  gradually 
add  cold  water,  and  mix  the  whole  to  a 
paste.  About  three-fourths  a  cup  of 
water  will  be  needed.  The  paste  should 
be  of  such  a  consistency  that  it  does  not 
stick  when  kneaded. 

Dredge  a  magic  cover  (used  on  board 
and  pin)  lightly  with  flour  and  work  it 
in  thoroughly.  Then  knead  the  little 
ball  of  dough  until  it  is  elastic.  Cover 
it  with  the  mixing-bowl,  and  let  **rest*' 
five  minutes.  Then  pat  it  with  the 
rolling-pin  and  roll  into  a  rectangular 
sheet. 

Have  the  sheet  of  paste  a  little  more 
than  twice  the  width  and  three  times 
the  length  of  the  cake  of  butter. 

Set  the  butter  in  the  middle  of  one- 
half  the  paste,  the  greatest  length  of  the 
butter  over  the  greatest  length  of  the 
paste.  Then  turn  the  paste  lengthwise 
over  the  butter,  thus  folding  the  paste 
in  the  center,  lengthwise,  and  enclosing 
the  butter.  Press  the  three  open  edges 
of  paste  together,  to  include  the  air. 
Then  fold  one  end  of  the  paste  over  and 
the  other  under  the  butter.  There 
will  now  be  three  layers  of  paste  over 
and  three  under  the  layer  of  butter. 
Press  the  edges  of  paste  together  firmly. 

Now  turn  the  paste  around,  in  order 
to  roll  the  sheet  of  paste  in  a  direction 
opposite  to  the  first  rolling.  Let  "rest" 
about  five  minutes.     Then  pat  gently 


with  the  pin,  to  press  the  paste  together 
in  ridges  and  break  up  the  enclosed  air 
into  smaller  bubbles.  Roll  the  paste 
into  a  long  strip,  taking  pains  to  roll  the 
butter  between  the  layers  of  paste  and 
without  letting  the  paste  break  through 
to  the  butter.  Keep  the  edges  even. 
Fold  the  paste,  to  make  three  even 
layers,  with  edges  perfectly  straight. 
Then  turn  the  paste  half-way  around,  so 
as  to  roll  in  the  opposite  direction.  Let 
**rest**  a  few  minutes.  Then  pat  and 
roll  into  a  sheet  as  before.  Fold  to 
make  three  layers.  Turn  half-way 
around.     Pat  and  roll  out  as  before. 

Continue  folding,  turning,  and  rolling 
until  the  paste 'has  been  rolled  out  six 
times.  Begin  counting  with  the  first 
rolling  after  the  butter  has  been  added. 
When  rolling  the  sixth  time,  shape  the 
paste  for  the  article  or  articles  to  be 
cut  from  it. 

For  a  vol-au-vent  roll  the  paste  to 
such  thickness  that  two  pieces  the  size 
of  the  vol-au-vent  cutter  may  be  cut 
from  it.  Dip  the  cutter  in  boiling  water 
and  stamp  out  the  two  pieces;  cut  each 
piece  again  about  three-fourths  an  inch 
from  the  edge ;  cut  one  piece  half  through, 
the  other,  for  the  upper  piece,  three- 
quarters  through;  brush  the  lower  piece 
with  cold  water  and  set  the  other  above 
it;  cut  out  small  figures,  brush  the  under 
side  with  cold  water  and  use  to  decorate 
the  center  of  the  top.  Let  chill  on  ice 
half  an  hour;  bake  about  forty  minutes; 
cut  out  the  center  and  remove  uncooked 
paste  if  present.  The  oven  shotdd  be 
hot  on  the  bottom  to  send  up  the  paste. 
Cover  the  top  with  brown  paper  if 
necessary.  For  the  vol-au-vent  shown 
in  the  illustration  a  cutter  seven  inches 
by  four  and  a  quarter  was  used.  A  large 
cutter  gives  a  lower  case  and  one  easier 
to  bake. 


Menus  for  a  Week  in  November 

**  If  men  are  to  be  reformed,  they  musJ  be  well  fed." 


> 
< 
O 

XT. 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 
Fried  Oysters,  Piccalilli 
Oatmeal  Biscuit  (reheated) 
Coffee  Doughnuts 


Cocoa 


Dinner 

Boiled  Fowl 

Sauce  with  Egg  Yolks 

Boiled  Rice  Sweet  Pickled  Peaches 

Celery-and-Green  Pepper  Salad 

Ice  Cream,  Chocolate  Sauce 

Honey  Cookies 

Coffee 

Supper 

Hot  Cheese  Custard 
Stuffed  Apples  Honey  Cookies 

Tea 


Breakfast 

Fresh  Country  Sausage,  Baked 
Fried    Apples  Potatoes  Cooked  in  Milk 

Cornmeal  Muffins 
Coffee  Dry  Toast  Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Rice  Crouqettes,  Cheese  Sauce 

Apple-and-Date  Salad 

Rye  Bread  and  Butter 

Cold-water  Sponge  Cake 

Tea 

Dinner 

Shoulder  of  Lamb,  Steamed 

Caper  Sauce 

Boiled  Turnips       Boiled  Potatoes       Squash 

Floating  Island 
Coffee 


O 

O 
> 


< 
Q 

o 


Breakfast 

Hashed  Chicken  on  Toast 
Rice  Griddle  Cakes 
Cocoa  Coffee 

Luncheon 

Pan  Broiled  Chops  (mutton) 
Baked  Potatoes  Stewed  Tomatoes 

Tapioca    Custard    Pudding,    Vanilla    Sauce 
Half  cup  of  Coffee 

Dinner 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup 

(chicken  broth  etc.) 

Hamburg  Steak 

Scalloped  Sweet  Potatoes 

Jellied  Apples 

Tea 


Breakfast 

Salt  Mackeral  Cooked  in  Milk 

White  Hashed  Potatoes 

Coffee       Molasses  Doughnuts       Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Curried  Lamb 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Stewed  Tomatoes 

Squash  Pie 

Tea 

Dinner 

Oysters  with  Cheese,  Fried 

Cabbage-and-Green  Pepper  Salad 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Chocolate  Cake  with  Nuts 

Coffee 


H 

C 
JO 

a 
> 


> 

< 

Q 
c/) 

:d 


Cocoa 


Breakfast 

Creamed  Codfish 
Quartered  Potatoes,  Boiled 
Baking  Powder  Biscuit 
(whole  wheat  flour) 
Home  Made  Pickles 

Luncheon 


Coffee 


Tuna  Crouqettes 
Canned  Peas  Celery 

Baked  Apple  Dumpling,  Sugar,  Cream 

Tea 

Dinner 

Oyster  Stew 

Olives  New  Pickles 

Apple  Pie,  Apple  Meringue  above.  Cheese 

Half  cup  of  Coffee 


Breakfast 

Poached  Eggs  on  Anchovy  Toast 

Fried  Mush  Baked  Apples 

Coffee        Dry  Toast        Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Sardines 

Potato  Salad 

Oatmeal  Bread  and  Butter 

Apple  Pie        Cheese 

Coffee 

Dinner 

Boiled  Shoulder  of  Cod 
Boiled  Potatoes,  Egg  Sauce 
Boiled  Onions         Philadelphia  Relish 
Macedoine  of  Fruit  in  Lemon  Jelly 
Half  Cup  of  Coflee 


2 
5 
> 


> 
< 

a 

< 
c/) 


Breakfast                                  Luncheon  Dinner 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream           Onions  Stuffed  with  Nuts,  Baked  Cream  of  Kornlet  Soup 

Fried  Salt  Pork,  County  Fashion      Ryemeal  Bread  and  Butter  Fresh  Cod  Crouqettes 

Cream  Sauce                    Apple  Dumplings,  Hard  Sauce  Sauce  Tartare 

German  Fried  Potatoes                          Banana         Potatoes,  Scalloped  with  Green  Peppers 

Raisin  Bread,  Toasted                               Coffee  Lady  Finger  Rolls 

(Spread  with  Cinnamon  and  Sugar)  Cranberry  Tarts 

Coffee                 Cocoa  Tea 

298 


Menus  for  Thanksgiving  Dinner's 


Dinner  for  Family  Gathering 


(Country) 

I. 

Clam  Broth  in  Cups 
Cclery,piive8  Home  Made  Pickles 

Roast   Turkey,    Chestnut    Dressing,    Giblet 

Sauce 

Baked  Ham 

Cranberry  Sauce  Jellied  Apples 

Squash  Mashed  Potatoes 

Buttered  Onions 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Ice  Cream,  Maple  Sauce 

Fruit  Nuts 

Sweet  Cider  Coffee 


(City) 

n. 

Oyster  Chaudfroid 

Consomme  with  Julienne  Vegetables 

Vol-au-vent  of  Scallops  and  Halibut 

Salad  of  Hot  House  Cucumbers  and  Pearl 

Onions 

Roast  Turkey,  Bread  Dressing,  Giblet  Gravy 

Sausage  Cakes '   Potato  Crouqettes 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Celery  Hearts 

Cranberry  Jelly 

Sweet  Cider  Frappe 

Broiled  Fillets  of  Venison 

Currant  Jelly 

Cauliflower  au;Gratin  (in>hells) 

Pumpkin  Pie 

Baked  Alaska 

Bonbons        Salted  Nuts        Raisins 

Coffee 


yf    yf    yf 


Dinner  for  Family  without 

Guests 

Tomato  Bouillon 

(Chicken  Broth  and  Tomato,  clarified) 

Celery         Crescent  Olives 

Roast  Turkey,  Bread  Dressing 

Giblet  Gravy 

Cranberry  Jelly 

Onions         Mashed  Potatoes        Squash 

Lettuce,  French  Dressing 
Hot  Apple  Pie  with  Vanilla  Ice  Cream 

(Junket) 
Maple  Bonbons  Assorted  Nuts 

Coffee 


Dinner  in  Institution 

Cream  of  Oyster  Soup 

Celery  Pickles 

Fowls  Steamed,  then  Browned  in  Oven 

Giblet  Sauce 

Cranberry  Sauce 

Mashed  Potatoes         Squash         Onions 

Parker  House  Rolls 

(Reheated  in  paper  bag) 

Bakwl  Indian  Pudding        Vanilla  Ice  Cream 

Nuts  Raisins 

Coffee 


^    yf    ^ 


Dinner  for  Two 


I. 


II. 


Fried  Oysters 

Olives  Rolls 

Panned  Chicken 

Cranberry  Jelly 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Celery  Hearts 

Pumpkin  Pie  Cream  Cheese 

Coffee 
Nuts  Raisins 


Cream  of  Kornlet  Soup 
Browned  Crackers  Olives 

Domestic  Duck,  Roasted 
Currant  Telly 
Mashed  Potato 
Creamed  Celery  Hearts 
Lettuce,  French  Dressing 
Meringued  Croustades  of  Fruit, 
Maltaise  Style 
Coffee 
Nuts  Raisins 


299 


Preparation  in  Detail  of  the  Meals  of  One  Day 

Family  of  tuo  Aiulla  and  tioo  Children 

By  Janet  M.  Hill 


SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Cream  of  Wheat,  Thin  Cream 

Salt  Codligh  Balls  Bacon  Rolls 

Parker  House  Rolls,  Reheated 

Coffee  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Fowl,  Sauted 

Cranberry  Jelly 

Mashed  Potatoes  Squash 

Apple  Pie 


Hot  Baked  Apples  (su-eet)  Thin  Cream 
Parker  House  Rolls  Honey  Cookies 


On  Saturday  evening  the  potatoes  for 
the  fish  balls  are  pared  and  put  into 
cold  water;  the  fish  is  picked  in  small 
pieces  and  set  into  another  dish  of  cold 
water.  Four  slices  of  bacon  are  rolled, 
separately,  and  a  wooden  tooth-pick 
run  through  each  to  hold  it  in  shape. 
The  package  of  wheat,  double-boiler 
and  measuring  cup  are  set  on  the  table 
or  shelf  near  the  range.  In  the  morning, 
as  soon  as  the  tea  kettle  boils,  put  a 
quart  of  boiling  water  and  a  teaspoonful 
■  of  salt  into  the  upper  part  of  the  double- 
boiler,  and  put  directly  over  the  fire; 
when  the  water  again  boils,  take  a  cup 
of  the  wheat  and  stir  while  gradually 
sprinkling  it  into  the  water;  let  boil 
vigorously  about  five  minutes,  then  set 
into  the  other  part  of  the  boiler,  over 


boiling  water,  to  cook  until  breakfast  is 
ready.  Pour  boiling  water  over  the 
potatoes  (cut  into  halves  or  quarters), 
drain  the  fish  and  set  it  above  and  at  the 
center  of  the  potatoes,  cover  and  let 
cook  until  the  potatoes  are  tender 
(one  pint  of  potato,  one  cup  of  fish). 

Meanwhile,  set  the  Scotch  bowl  with 
fat  for  frying  over  the  fire,  that  the  fat 
may  melt  and  become  hot.  Take  care 
that  it  does  not  become  overheated, 
as  that  will  spoil  it.  Fat  for  frying  fish 
cakes  or  potatoes  should  not  have  been 
used  very  many  times  for  frying  or  the 
color  of  the  finished  article  will  be 
muddy,  rather  than  a  clean  amber  tint. 

Drain  the  water  from  the  fish  and 
potatoes,  shake  the  fish  from  the  potato 
and  press  the  potato  through  the  ricer; 
add  the  fish,  a  dash  of  black  pepper, 
^n  egg,  beaten  light,  and  a  little  salt, 
if  needed;  with  a  wooden  spoon  beat 
the  mixture  very  light ;  then  shape  with 
a  spoon  and  the  hands  into  about  one 
dozen  balls.  Do  not  press  the  mixture 
together  too  firmly.  Test  the  fat  with 
a  bit  of  bread;  it  should  brown  while 
fifty  is  being  counted  as  the  clock  ticks. 
Put  in  the  bacon,  when  well  cooked 
skim  out  on  to  tissue  paper  to  drain  and 
put  in  one-third  of  the  fish  cakes. 
You  may  lower  them  into  the  fat  in  a 
frying  basket  —  first  immersed  in  the 
fat  that  the  cakes  may  not  stick  to  it  — 


THREE  MEALS  A   DAY 


301 


or  you  may  set  them  on  a  skimjoier  and 
let  them  slide  from  that  into  the  fat. 
When  of  a  delicate  amber  tint,  raise 
the  basket,  drain  and  then  pick  out 
the  fish  balls  wth  the  fingers  and  set 
them  on  tissue  paper;  or,  using  no 
basket,  lift  them  out  on  the  skimmer, 
drain  and  slide  them  to  a  dish  holding 
tissue  paper,  crushed  and  made  hot  to 
receive  them.  While  the  fish  balls 
are  frying,  the  Parker  House  rolls, 
fastened  securely  in  a  paper  bag  of  the 
kind  used  for  cooking  purposes,  have 
been  reheating  in  the  oven,  the  coffee 
has  been  boiling  and  the  cocoa  gently 
simmering,  and  breakfast  is  now  ready. 
Move  the  coffee  back  where  it  will 
simmer  slightly,  and  the  cocoa  where 
it  will  keep  hot  without  simmering. 
Put  a  paper  napkin  on  a  serving  dish, 
and  on  this  dispose  the  fish  cakes  and 
bacon  and  set  the  dish  into  the  warming 
oven.  Set  the  fat  aside  to  cool  a  little. 
Turn  the  wheat  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve 
at  once.  After  the  cereal  is  eaten,  take 
out  the  used  dishes  etc.,  and  bring  in  the 
rest  of  the  breakfast. 

To  make  the  coffee,  three  tablespoons- 
ful  of  coffee  was  stirred  with  the  crushed 
shell  of  the  egg  (used  for  the  fish  balls) 
and  a  little  cold  water,  then  when  the 
fish  balls  were  ready  to  fry,  two  cups 
and  three-fourths  of  boiling  water  were 
poured  on  and  the  coffee  set  to  boil. 
For  two  cups  of  cocoa  two  rounding 
teaspoonsful  of  cocoa  and  four  rounding 
teaspoonsftd  of  sugar  were  set  to  cook 
in  about  one  cup  and  a  half  of  boiling 
water.  Cream  or  milk,  scalded  in  a 
double  boiler,  are  added,  at  pleasure, 
at  the  table  to  both  the  coffee  and  cocoa. 
Two  quarts  of  milk  are  purchased  daily 
and  the  cream  is  used  for  the  morning 
cereal  or  such  other  purpose  as  seems 
best  for  the  day  in  question. 

Breakfast  being  over,  the  rest  of  the 
wheat  (only  one-half  was  taken  up  for 
breakfast)  is  turned  into  an  empty 
coffee  or  baking-powder  can  to  fry  as 
mush,  Monday  morning.  Put  a  strainer 
holding  a  piece  of  cheese  doth  into  a 


receptacle  and  pour  in  the  fat  from  the 
Scotch  bowl,  wipe  out  the  bowl  with  the 
tissue  paper  on  which  the  fish  cakes 
were  drained  (bum  the  paper),  wash  the 
bowl,  outside  and  in,  in  hot  soapy  water, 
rinse  and  make  dry,  then  to  it  retimi  the 
fat,  and  set  it  aside  ready  to  use  for  some 
other  purpose. 

On  Saturday  the  fowl  was  cut  in  pieces 
at  the  joints,  covered  with  boiling  water 
and  after  ten  minutes  boiling  was  sim- 
mered until  tender;  the  pieces  of  flesh 
were  set  aside  in  one  dish,  and  the 
broth  in  another.  One  quart  of  cran-' 
berries  were  cooked,  covered,  about  five 
minutes  in  boiling  water,  pressed  through 
a  gravy  str^ner  with  a  wooden  pestle 
(a  matter  of  five  minutes  if  the  right 
sort  of  a  sieve  is  used)  and,  without 
rettUTiing  the  pulp  to  the  fire,  two  cups 
of  sugar  are  stirred  in,  and  the  mixture 
turned  into  a  mold.  If  these  directions 
are  followed  on  Saturday,  cranberry 
jelly  is  assiu-ed  for  Sunday.  If  a  jelly- 
like sauce,  not  as  firm  as  jelly,  be  pre- 
ferred, use  two  cups  of  water,  keeping  the 
proportions  of  the  other  ingredients  the 
same. 

The  Parker  House  rolls,  reheated  for 
breakfast  and  supper,  were  made  on 
Sattu-day.  The  recipe  (with  illustration) 
appears  in  the  October  number  of 
this  magazine.  Enthusiastic  cooking 
teachers,  obliged  to  give  yeast  rolls  in 
the  time  devoted  to  a  lesson,  claim  that 
one  point  in  this  recipe  is  of  inestimable 
value  to  them.  Indeed,  no  one,  teacher 
or  housekeeper,  should  ever  attempt 
to  make  these  rolls  who  does  not  grasp 
this  point.  Its  use  marks  the  dividing  line 
between  efficiency  and  inefficiency.  Here 
it  is: —  when  the  dough  is  light  and  ready 
to  shape,  carefully  —  without  disturbing 
it  in  the  least  —  turn  it  upside  down  on 
the  board,  very  lightly  dredged  with 
flour;  pat  it  with  the  pin,  then  roll  with 
a  few  long  strokes  into  a  sheet  less  than 
half  an  inch  thick,  then  cut  into  rounds 
and  finish  as  in  the  recipe.  The  undis- 
turbed dough  may  be  rolled  into  a  thin 
sheet  with  the  fewest  motions  imagin- 


302 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


able;  try  it  once,  and  Parker  House  rolls 
will  have  no  further  terrors  for  you. 
Do  not  forget  to  lift  the  dough  from  the 
board  before  cutting  out  the  rounds; 
this  insures  no  "flying  back"  of  the  same 
after  they  are  cut.  Properly  reheated, 
these  rolls  are  about,  if  not  quite,  equal 
to  the  fresh  baked. 

The  pastry  for  the  apple  pie  was  made 
on  Saturday,  then  on  Sunday  morning  it 
will  take  but  a  short  time  to  get  the  pie 
ready  for  the  oven.  At  this  season  of 
the  year,  pastry  keeps  well  and  paste 
for  two  pies  may  be  made  on  Sattu^day 
and  a  second  pie  be  prepared  the  middle 
of  the  week.  For  the  pastry,  take  three 
cups  of  pastry  (not  bread)  flour,  six 
ounces  or  three-fourths  a  cup  of  short- 
ening, half  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt 
and  baking  powder,  and  cold  water  as 
needed  (rather  less  than  three-fourths 
a  cup).  Sift  together  the  dry  ingre- 
dients; with  two  knives  cut  in  the  short- 
ening, then,  adding  the  water,  gradually, 
mix  to  a  paste;  cut  and  mix  with  the 
knife  until  the  paste  cleans  the  bowl; 
cover  and  set  aside  in  a  cool  place  until 
time  to  make  the  pie.  After  breakfast, 
Sunday,  pare,  quarter,  core  and  slice 
the  apples,  measure  out  a  cup  of  sugar, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter;  take  rather  more 
than  one-fourth  of  the  paste  on  a  board, 
lightly  dredged  with  flour,  roll  with  a 
knife  in  the  flour,  knead  slightly, 
then  pat  and  roll  out  to  fit  the  pan; 
lift  the  paste  several  times  while  rolling 
to  be  sure  it  is  not  sticking  to  the  board; 
also  dredge  the  board  lightly  with  flour 
as  needed.  Lift  the  paste  to  the  plate  — 
an  agate  one  is  preferable  —  fit  it 
closely,  yet  loosely,  against  the  plate 
then  cut  all  around  one-fourth  an  inch 
beyond  the  edge  of  the  plate.  In  baking, 
the  paste  will  shrink  and  come  just  to 
the  edge  of  the  plate.  Roll  out  the 
upper  crust,  and  make  several  slits 
in  the  center.     Now,  both  crusts  being 


ready,  fill  the  prepared  plate  with  the 
apples,  sprinkle  on  the  sugar,  salt  and 
a  little  nutmeg  or  mace  as  is  desired. 
Add  the  butter  in  bits,  brush  the  edge 
with  cold  water  and  turn  two  or  three 
tablespoonsful  over  the  apples.  Lift 
the  upper  paste  into  place,  let  it  lie 
loosely  over  the  apples,  then  cut  even 
with  the  under  paste;  brush  the  two 
edges  of  paste  together  with  water; 
keep  them  together  and  away  from  the 
plate.  Set  into  an  over  hot  on  the 
bottom  and  let  bake  from  twenty-five 
to  thirty-five  minutes.  The  oven  should 
be  hot,  at  first,  to  bake  the  pastry  before 
it  becomes  soaked,  after  that  reduce  the 
heat  that  the  pastry  be  not  too  dark 
in  color. 

At  dinner  time  set  the  apples  to 
bake  for  supper,  and  the  potatoes  and 
squash  to  boil;  try  out  fat  from  bits 
of  fat  salt  pork;  dip  the  second  joints, 
legs,  and  breast,  cut  in  four  pieces,  in 
part  of  the  broth  made  hot,  then  roll 
in  flour  and  let  brown  in  the  hot  fat, 
first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  other. 
Stir  floiu",  salt  and  black  pepper  with 
cold  water  to  a  smooth  paste,  dilute 
with  some  of  the  hot  broth  and  stir 
the  whole  over  the  fire  until  boiling. 
Let  simmer  imtil  dinner  is  ready; 
if  fat  rises  remove  with  tissue  paper. 
When  dinner  is  ready  to  serve,  set  the 
tea  kettle  over  the  fire  with  fresh  water 
and  make  the  tea  when  removing  the 
plates,  before  serving  the  pie.  Have 
the  tea  pot  scalded  and  hot  that  there 
be  no  delay.  The  recipe  for  the  cookies 
fmade  on  Saturday)  will  be  found  in  the 
seasonable  recipes.  These  will  last 
about  one  week.  The  mashed  potato, 
chicken  (broth  and  meat)  and  squash, 
left  over,  will  be  made  use  of  in  the  next 
chapter? 

Note:  —  The  days  taken  uf)  from  month  to 
month  are  supposed  to  be  continuous;  the  food 
left  over  from  the  meals  in  one  month  will  be 
accounted  for  in  the  next  month. — Editor, 


ideAs  <£ 

ECON°MIEi 


CoatributiooB  to  tfaii  deputment  will  be  gUdly  received.    Accepted  items  will  be 
paid  for  at  reeaonftble  rates. 


Lunches  for  School  Children 

POSSIBLY  some  of  the  readers  of 
this  magazine  liave  the  same  prob- 
lem to  solve  as  myself,  namely, 
furnishing  a  good,  substantial  and  nour- 
ishing luncheon,  at  a  moderate  cost, 
for  school  children  and  adults. 

Often  in  poring  over  cook  books 
in  search  of  some  dish  to  vary  the 
menu,  I  was  met  with  the  difficulty 
of  procuring  some  ingredient,  as,  for 
instance,  most  recipes  for  pur^s  call 
for  the  addition  of  a  quantity  of  soup 
stock.  In  kitchens  where  daily  soup 
is  not  the  rule,  it  would  be  quite  an 
undertaking  for  a  housewife  with  limited 
time  at  her  command  to  first  prepare  the 
stock  and  then  the  pur^. 

A  very  savory  soup,  which  is  hearty 
enough  for  the  main  dish  at  luncheon, 
can  be  made  from  dried  Lima  beans 
in  the  following  manner:  Let  soak  over 
night  the  required  quantity  of  beans 
(3  cups  will  serve  seven  or  eight  jreople) ; 
then  place  over  the  fire  with  plenty  of 
water  to  prevent  burning,  a  few  bones 
from  a  roast  or  pieces  of  steak  from 
dinner  the  night  before,  or  a  small 
left-over  portion  of  stew,  or  a  cup  of 
gravy  from  a  pot  roast,  and  a  few  soup 
vegetables,  whatever  one  has  at  hand, 
a  couple  of  tomatoes,  top  of  celery,  a 
carrot  or  turnip,  sprig  of  parsley,  etc., 
simmered  until  very  soft,  then  pressed 
through  a  colander,  reheated  and  served 
with  heated  crackers  or  croutons. 

This,  with  a  green  salad  or.^apple 
sauce  and  bread  and  butter,  makes  a 


very  satisfactory  luncheon  and  one 
imusually  relished. 

The  peas  I  use  are  not  the  split  var- 
iety, but  whole,green,dried  peas.  They 
are  soaked  in  the  same  manner  as  the 
beans,  cooked  till  soft,  pressed  through 
the  colander  and  placed  over  the  fire. 
Make  a  roiut  of  butter  and  flour;  add 
a  little  of  the  purfc,  and  when  smooth, 
add  it  to  the  rest  and  allow  to  boil  up. 
This  holds  the  particles  of  peas  in  susr 
pension  and  seasons  the  soup.  It  is  not 
necessary  with  the  Lima  beans.  During 
the  winter  and  early  spring,  no  other 
seasoning  is  needed,  but  later  on  it  is 
desirable  to  cook  a  smaU  piece  of  salt 
pork  or  a  few  bones  from  a  roast  with 
them. 

A  soup  can  be  made  in  either  of  the 
foregoing  ways  from  lentils,  but  I  have 
not  succeeded  in  making  it  so  palatable. 

By  varying  the  seasoning  for  the 
bean  and  lentil  soups,  slightly,  as,  for 
instance,  at  one  time  let  the  celery 
flavor  predominate  and  at  another  time 
the  tomato,  or  omitting  either  or  both, 
an  agreeable  variety  can  be  obtained. 

Macaroni  baked  with  cheese,  laid  on 
in  thin  shces,  so  as  to  form  a  crust, (for 
variety  use  tomato  Vpurfee  instead  of 
milk,  or  season  in  the*Italian  fashion) 
furnishes  the  hearty  dish  for  another 
luncheon.  (..  T.  O. 

Garments  for  Outdoor  Sports 

THE  child,  whether  boy  or  girl,  who 
is  to  grow  up  into  a  rightful  heri- 
tage of  good  health  must  leant  to 


304 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


play  out  of  doors  in  the  coldest  of  wea- 
ther. In  order,  however,  for  the  child 
to  enjoy  the  out-door  life  in  very  cold 
weather,  he  must  be  comfortable  and 
the  mother,  looking  for  the  best  good  of 
her  children,  gives  much  thought  to  the 
problem.  Probably  no  better  suit  has 
yet  been  brought  out  than  the  *' Eskimo.** 
These  are  practical,  comfortable,  inex- 
pensive and  can  be  made  at  home  by  any 
mother  who  makes  or  superintends  the 
making  of  her  children's  clothing.  The 
material  is  a  pair  of  gray  wool  blankets. 
This  color  is  chosen  because  they  soil  less 
than  more  delicate  colors.  The  gar- 
ments are  a  pair  of  loose  bloomers  and  a 
jacket,  with  a  hood  attached  at  the 
throat  line.  These  are  cut  precisely  the 
same  for  the  boy  as  for  the  girl  and  are 
worn  over  the  regular  underwear,  the 
girls,  of  course,  dispensing  with  petti- 
coats. Usually  the  jacket  is  cut  from 
one  end  of  a  blanket,  so  that  the  blue  or 
black  border  is  left  on  the  lower  part  of 
the  garment  making  a  really  attractive 
finish.  With  these  garments  are  worn 
high  gaiters  over  woolen  stockings  and 
felt  shoes. 

This  is  the  costiune  worn  in  the  open- 
air  rooms  where  children  who  show  ten- 
dencies toward  heart-weakness,  anaemia 
or  tuberculosis  are  helped  to  overcome 
these  diseases,  but  it  is  just  as  practical 
for  every  boy  and  girl  and  is  being  adop- 
ted by  boy-scouts,  camp-fire  girls  and 
other  clubs.  It  gives  the  boy  or  girl 
absolute  protection  from  the  cold  or 
storm  and  leaves  the  limbs  perfectly 
free  to  participate  in  any  game. 

Decorating  the  Tea  Table 

One  of  the  newest  ideas  for  decorating 
the  tea  table,  and  a  very  pretty  one  it  is, 
uses  several  bouquets  of  the  same  kind 
of  flowers.  Suppose  it  is  an  afternoon 
function  at  a  woman's  club,  at  which 
light  refreshments  are  to  be  served. 
Place  in  the  centre  of  the  table  a  basket 
of  delicate  pink  roses.  Leaving  room 
for  an  irregular  row  of  sandwiches  or 
cakes,  place  a  row  of  small  high,  glass 


vases  filled  with  the  same  kind  of  roses 
arotmd  the  plates  of  food.  These  latter 
vases  should  hold  not  more  than  three  or 
four  roses.  These  small  vases  should  not 
be  placed  stiffly,  but  arranged  carelessly, 
although  keeping  the  idea  of  a  circle  or 
an  oval.  Connect  the  vases  with  one 
wide,  or  two-inch  wide,  lengths  of  rib- 
bon as  nearly  the  shade  of  the  roses  as 
possible,  and  at  each  comer  of  the  table, 
so  placed  as  not  to  be  an  inconvenience 
either  to  the  potirers  or  servers,  place  a 
lighted  candle  screened  by  a  silver  can- 
dle shade  fringed  with  pink.  This 
makes  a  very  beautiful  table;  but  just 
as  artistic  wotild  be  a  design  of  butter- 
cups, when  they  may  be  had  for  the 
picking,  the  vases,  prefereably  low  ones, 
covered  with  yellow  tissue  paper  and 
connected  with  ropes  of  the  same  paper. 
The  latter  decoration  would  mean  no 
expense  at  all,  for  ordinary  table  tumblers 
might  be  used  to  hold  the  blossoms, 
with  the  larger  cluster  placed  in  a  bowl. 
A  decoration  of  this  kind  is  also  very 
effective  for  either  a  family  or  company 
dinner,  the  vases  being  so  arranged  as 
not  to  interfere  with  the  serving  of  the 
meal.  The  variety  of  flowers  and  color 
of  the  paper  may  be  changed  so  that  the 
decorative  scheme  could  be  used  for 
several  different  functions. 

L.  E.  F. 

*         «         « 

Mock  Hare 

TAKE  three  pounds  of  the  shin  of 
beef  and  cut  into  pieces  about  two 
inches  long.  Roll  in  flour  and  fry  for  a 
few  minutes  in  some  good  dripping. 
Now  put  the  meat  into  a  crock  or  jar 
and  cover  w4th  cold  water;  add  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  an  onion  with  three 
cloves  stuck  in  it,  a  small  turnip,  one 
carrot  cut  in  thin  slices,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  sweet  herbs,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a 
bav  leaf,  twelve  peppercorns,  a  piece  of 
celery,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  raisins. 
Cover  the  jar  with  a  lid  or  tie  greased 
paper  over  it  to  keep  in  the  steam,  set 
in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  cook 


HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 


305 


for  three  hours.  Mix  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  with  a  little  water,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  ketchup  and  stir  in  when  the 
meat  has  been  cooking  for  two  hours, 
after  that  it  will  occasionally  want  stir- 
ring up  until  it  is  finished.  Arrange  the 
pieces  of  meat  on  a  platter  and  pour 
the  gravy  over  them.  Serve  with  red 
currant  jelly  and  mashed  potatoes.  If 
carefully  prepared  this  makes  a  nice 
nourishing  and  economical  dinner  for  a 
cold  day.  It  can  be  cooked  in  the  oven, 
but  care  must  be  taken  not  to  have  the 
oven  too  hot  so  that  the  gravy  boils 
away  and  the  nourishment  be  lost. 

Scotch  Shortbread 

To  make  this  national  cake  take  two 
pounds  of  floiu",  fourteen  ounces  of 
butter,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  two  eggs, 
half  an  ounce  of  caraway  comfits,  or 
"carbies"  as  they  are  called  in  the  land  of 
cakes,  half  an  ounce  of  baking  powder 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  milk  if  neces- 
sary. 

Rub  the  butter  and  floiu*  together ;  give 
the  sugar  and  eggs  a  little  mixing  to- 
gether before  adding  them  to  the  butter 
and  flotu".  Add  the  milk  if  needed,  but 
the  whole  must  be  kept  in  a  pretty  dry 
state  and  in  that  condition  worked  into 
a  firm  mass.  Knead  it  well,  rubbing  it 
down  with  the  hand  upon  the  board, 
again  and  again,  until  the  whole  is  a 
smooth  compact  mass,  then  break  the 
dough  into  pieces  and  mould  into 
oblongs,  squares,  or  diamonds.  The  old 
Scottish  method  was  to  make  square 
cakes  of  half  a  pound,  each ,  flattening  them 
out  with  the  hand  and  then  with  the 
thumb  and  forefinger  pinching  around  the 
edges 

Cut  out  a  thistle  leaf  in  citron,  lay  it 
on  the  centre  and  lightly  press  in,  also,  a 
few  caraway  seeds.  With  icing  -  sugar 
write  such  words  as  **Auld  Lang  Syne," 
"Bonnie  Scotland,"  or  at  this  season  of 
the  year,  *  *  Christmas  Greetings. "      i .  a  .  g  . 

«        *        * 
N  our  first  visit  to  the  tropics,  we 

were  stuprised  to  learn  that  bananas 


o 


had  a  much  finer  flavor,  if  they  were  eaten 
when  they  were  just  ripe,  before  they  had 
acquired  the  oily  taste  which  character 
izes  much  of  the  fruit  found  at  the  north - 
em  grocers.  In  the  winter  we  have 
found  it  a  convenience  to  buy  an  "eight 
hand"  bunch  of  bananas  (about  eleven 
dozen)  from  a  wholesale  fruit  dealer  and 
to  pick  them  at  just  the  right  moment 
ourselves.  In  an  inland  town  this  not 
only  makes  the  fruit  cheaper  than  where 
it  is  bought  by  the  dozen  at  retail,  but 
there  is  a  real  profit  in  the  opportunity  it 
gives  for  selecting  the  bananas  and,  in 
cold  weather,  when  they  are  excellent  for 
baking  and  pickling  and  thus  eking  out 
the  vegetables  supply,  a  family  of  four 
persons  can  easilv  consume  a  bunch  with- 
out anv  wa«t-e.  m.  v. 

*  *  m 

Guava  Jelly 

PICK  over,  wash  and  pare  guavas 
Slice  fruit  and  put  over  to  boil  with 
just  enough  water  to  cover.  Simmer 
until  fruit  is  soft  and  seeds  drop  from 
pulp.  Strain  over  night  through  jelly 
bag.  In  the  morning  measure  and  add 
juice  of  one  lime  to  each  quart  of  juice. 
Boil  rapidly  until  juice  has  boiled  down 
about  one-fourth,  which  can  be  told  by 
the  lowered  ring  on  the  inside  of  kettle. 
Then  add  sugar,  one  cup  for  each  cup  of 
juice,  and  boil  until  it  drops  thick  from 
the  spoon  and  is  ready  to  jell.     s.  b.  m. 

*  j¥  * 

Cleaner  for  Bath-tub  Stains 

**TN  hunting  for  some  cleanser  to 
-^remove  the  stains  from  bath-tubs, 
lavatory,  etc.,  I  found  that  wood  ashes 
mixed  to  a  paste  with  kerosene  is  the 
most    effective.  e.g. 

*  *         * 

Keeping  Paprika  in  Hot  Climates 
as  Hawaii,  etc. 

ONCE  in  two  or  three  weeks,  remove 
from  the  bottle  and  tins  and  let  bake 
in  the  oven;  when  cool,  return  to  the 
receptacles  again. 


306 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Jujubes,    the   Newest   Fruit  in 
America,  the  Oldest  in  Asia 

WHEN  the  writer  was  a  little 
girl  she  had  a  wonderful 
Christinas  book  telling  about 
Santa  Claus  Land  and  how  he  made 
candy  and  started  forth  with  his  rein- 
deer. Many  a  time  she  spelled  out  the 
names  of  the  candies,  puzzling  especially 
over  "jujube  paste/* 

Jujube  paste,  if  ever  made  of  the  real 
jujubes,  has  not  been  so  made  for  a  long 
time;  possibly  our  sea-faring  ancestors 
brought  home  the  paste  from  India  or 
China  long  ago,  or  applied  the  name  to 
a  gelatinous  confection. 

The  jujube  is  also  called  Indian  fig 
by  some,  since  it  grows  in  India  as  well 
as  in  China.  It  has  been  grown  in  China 
for  at  least  four  thousand  years,  while 
this  year  of  1913  is  the  first  that  the 
jujube  fruits  have  become  known  and 
publicly  served  in  the  Uftited  States. 

This  was  at  the  annual  banquet  of  the 
National  Geographic  Society.  The  fruits 
were  grown  in  California,  and  so  import- 
ant and  pleasing  a  novelty  were  they 
considered  that  the  Toastmaster,  Robert 
E.  Peary,  of  the  Navy,  said:  **Before 
beginning  with  the  program  of  the  even- 
ing I  am  going  to  read  two  announce- 
ments to  you,  the  first  in  regard  to  a 
special  delicacy  which  you  will  have  the 
opportunity  this  evening  to  test.  I 
might  say  that  otu-  members  and  guests 
always  appreciate  and  welcome  the 
opportunity  given  us  by  our  friends,  the 
Secretary  of  Agriculture  and  his  assist- 
ants, to  test  some  of  the  discoveries 
made  in  foreign  lands  by  the  agricultural 
explorers  of  the  Department.  Two 
years  ago  the  members  of  the  Society 
were  the  first,  at  a  large  function,  to 
test  the  American-grown  dasheen,  im- 
ported from  China.  Last  yeiar  American 
grown  dates,  imported  from  Africa  and 
grown  in  California,  were  served  to  us. 
This  year  we  are  given  the  opportunity 
of  eating  some  preserved  Chinese  ju- 
jubes.   The  story  of  their  discovery  in 


China  and  their  cultivation  in  America 
is  told  in  the  printed  matter  which  is 
placed  at  every  plate  this  evening." 

These  California  jujubes  were  pre- 
served in  candied  form  for  this  banquet. 
The  jujube  is  mentioned  by  a  Chinese 
writer  of  eight  himdred  years  ago, 
when  forty-three  varieties  were  listed. 
Our  pickle  man  is  beaten  to  a  frazzle 
by  nature,  because  just  this  one  thing, 
the  jujube,  has  developed  hundreds  of 
variations,  differing  in  shape,  size  and 
flavor.  One  is  as  large  as  an  egg,  and 
one  kind  is  seedless.  Some  are  nice, 
eaten  fresh;  some  are  dried,  or  candied, 
or  preserved  in  syrup.  The  seedless 
kind  is  boiled  with  rice  very  much  as  we 
cook  raisins  with  it.  The  jujubes  grown 
this  year  at  the  Plant  Introduction  Gar- 
den, at  Chico,  California,  were  cooked 
in  symp  and  then  candied.  Many  of 
the  varieties,  cooked  thus,  resemble  in 
color,  shape,  and  flavor  a  nice  quality 
of  dates.  The  branches  are  heavily 
hung  with  them,  resembling  olives, 
or  some  pltmis  with  abundant  foliage. 

Thus  we  have  a  new  fruit  as  welcome 
as  choice  dates,  yet  suitable  for  growing 
many  hundreds  of  miles  north  of  the 
regions  adapted  to  growing  the  date 
palm  trees.  The  jujube  trees  in  Wash- 
ington, D.  C,  withstood  a  temperature 
of  17  degrees  below  zero  the  past  winter. 

What  the  banana  was  in  the  sixties 
and  seventies,  an  expensive  novelty, 
at  sixty  cents  per  dozen,  the  avocado,  or 
so-called  "pear,"  is  for  this  decade; 
and  very  soon  let  us  hope  we  may  have 
the  jujube  in  abundance.  j.  d.  c. 


Company's  Coming 

Company's  coming,  as  sure  as  can  be ! 
Company's  coming,  and  maybe  to  tea! 
Out  at  the  front  door  and  in  at  the  side — 
Company's  coming,  as  sure  as  high  tide! 

Here  are  two  chairs  standing  back  unto  back ; 
And,  if  you  deem  full  assurance  you  lack. 
Hear  chanticleer  on  the  doorstep  crow  loud, — 
Company's  coming,  and  maybe  a  crowd ! 

Mrs.  Cora  A.  Matson  Dolson. 


Margaret's  Kitchen 

By  H.  J.  Blacklidge 


INDEED,  I  am  proud  of  my  kitchen. 
Why  shouldn't  I  be?  It  is  where 
I  do  the  largest  part  of  my  work 
and  I  just  made  up  my  mind  that  I  was 
going  to  have  all  the  little  conveniences 
possible.  Come  on  and  let  me  show  you 
some  of  the  out-o£-the-ordinary  ones." 

Margaret  opened  the  refrigerator.  It 
was  snowy  white.  "See  that  little  dish 
of  powdered  charcoal  ?  I  have  never  had 
a  single  odor  in  it  since  I  put  that  char- 
coal in  there." 

"Now  look  at  my  kitchen  table.  No 
oilcloth  or  paint  there  for  me.  I  had 
four  coats  of  white  shellac  put  on  it 
with  just  a  Uttle  bit  of  sand  papering 
between  the  coats.  See  how  smooth  it 
is?  And  whatever  you  spill  on  it  wipes 
right  off.  Hardly  anything  ever  sticks 
to  it.  You  see  all  my  cupboard  shelves 
are  shellacked  also." 

"Oh,  what  dandy  measuring  cups!" 
exclaimed  one  of  the  friends. 

"Yes,  I  never  guess  in  my  cooking. 
And  you  have  to  guess  with  the  ordinary 
cups.  You  see  these  are  marked  with 
fourths,  thirds,  and  ounces.  It  is  so  easy 
to  be  accurate  with  them.  Oh,  say,  do 
your  cakes  ever  stick?" 

"I  had  two  spoiled  last  week,"  replied 
Mrs.  Kearney. 

"Well,  you  just  try  dredging  the  tins 
with  flour  after  greasing  them.  I  had 
trouble  until  I  did  that.  Now  mine 
never  stick." 

"See  this  ball  of  string  hanging  here? 
When  a  package  comes  from  the  store 
I  untie  the  string  and  wrap  it  around  this 
ball  right  then  and  there.    You  see  it 


hangs  here  close  to  the  table.  I  always 
have  plenty  of  string  handy.  Then  I 
put  the  paper  in  that  hanger.  They 
come  in  handy  when  I  am  cleaning  a  fowl, 
or  to  wipe  off  my  stove,  and  for  lots  of 
other  things.  Oh,  yes,  and  the  waxed 
cardboard  cracker  boxes  are  the  dandiest 
things  for  polishing  your  flatirons.  I 
never  use  paraffine  anymore.  Just  rub 
the  iron  on  a  piece  of  a  cracker  box." 

"Speaking  of  irons  reminds  me  of  a 
little  trick  that  I  have  found  worth  while. 
When  I  iron  collars,  I  always  roll  them 
up  just  as  they  are  worn  and  fasten  them 
in  that  position  with  a  clothespin.  They 
are  much  nicer  when  you  put  them  on. 
You  know  how  often  they  are  out  of 
shape  when  left  flat  after  ironing.  And 
this  way  they  seem  to  just  slip  around 
your  neck  and  drop  into  their  proper 
shape  of  their  own  accord. 

"See  this  little  shelf  within  easy  reach 
of  my  stove?  There  I  keep  these  flavors 
and  seasonings  that  I  use  frequently 
while  cooking.  Of  course  those  that  I 
use  mostly  while  mixing  are  in  the  cabi- 
net over  thft  table." 

"I  always  keep  ajar  of  softsoap  handy. 
It  is  better  than  soap  or  washing  powder 
for  dishwashing.  Sometimes  I  make  it 
from  washing  powder,  sometimes  from 
the  little  scraps  of  soap  left  from  washing 
and  the  bath.  Just  put  them  into  water 
and  let  boil  a  few  minutes  or  imtil  the 
soap  is  melted.  A  teaspoonful  in  the 
dish  water  cuts  the  grease  fine.  There  is 
a  perforated  soap  holder,  too,  for  using 
up  the  little  scraps  of  soap. 

"What  in  the  world  have  you  got 


308 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


that   chloroform  for?"  asked  a  friend. 

Margaret  laughed.  **Why  the  painter 
was  a  careless  fellow  and  spattered  paint 
on  my  windows  and  several  other  places. 
It  was  too  dry  for  turpentine  to  remove, 
so  I  got  a  little  chloroform.  You  ought 
to  have  seen  the  way  it  let  go  when  the 
chloroform  touched  it.  It  was  ready  to 
come  off  in  about  ten  seconds."  The 
rest  looked  at  her  in  astonishment. 
They  had  never  heard  of  that  before. 

They  were  about  to  return  to  the  liv- 


ing room,  when  Margaret  spoke  again. 
**0h,  I  want  you  to  see  my  step-saver!" 
She  opened  the  door  to  the  basement. 
At  one  side  was  a  shelf.  "See  that  shelf? 
That  is  the  best  thing  in  the  house,  al- 
most. Jack  thought  of  that.  Every 
time  I  find  anything  that  goes  to  the 
basement  I  put  it  on  that  shelf.  Then, 
when  I  have  to  run  down  for  something, 
I  just  take  everything  on  the  shelf.  That 
is  if  I  can  carry  them  all.  Sometimes  it 
is  nearly  overloaded." 


Where  Is  Your  Phone? 

By  Flora  Huntley 


THE  correct  placing  of  a  telephone 
in  the  ordinary  home  is  a  matter 
of  more  consequence  than  is  evi- 
dent at  first  consideration.  Privacy 
is  thought  to  be  the  chief  essential  and 
so  the  telephone  is  most  often  located 
in  a  front  hall.  Frequently  this  room 
is  not  heated  nor  kept  regularly  lighted 
in  the  average  home.  The  mother 
stands  while  using  the  instrument  and 
the  moments  she  spends  in  this  way, 
while  sometimes  a  pleastire  mentally, 
are  not  at  all  restful  to  tired  back  or 
aching  feet. 

Other  families  place  the  'phone  half 
way  up  the  stairs,  in  the  effort  to  part- 
ially accommodate  people  on  both  floors. 
This  may  seem  to  save  steps,  but  in 
reality  is  not  convenient  for  any  one. 
Unless  there  are  boarders  or  many  guests 
in  the  family,  the  question  of  privacy, 
strictly  speaking,  need  not  enter  into 
consideration,  and  in  such  cases  an  extra 
instrument  can  well  be  afforded. 

Some  housewives  prefer  the  kitchen, 
dining  room  or  pass-pantry  as  the  most 
convenient  location,  but  all  seem  to  con- 
sider the  telephone  as  useful  chiefly  for 
ordering  groceries  and  meat,  or  making 
business  appointments,  frogetting  the 
fact  that  in  reality  they  use  it  as  a  part 
of  social  life.     Especially  in  rural  com- 


mimities  it  takes  the  place  of  the  morn- 
ing call,  a  letter  of  condolence  or  of 
congratulation,  quite  as  often  as  it  serves 
the  purposes  of  business. 

Put  the  *phone  near  a  sunny  window 
in  the  den  or  private  sitting  room,  in 
a  comer  of  the  dining  room,  or  where 
ever  you  are  accustomed  to  sit  down  for 
a  few  minutes'  rest.  Have  it  placed 
at  just  the  right  height  for  use  when 
sitting.  This  costs  nothing  extra  and 
is  almost  as  convenient  as  a  portable 
desk  'phone.  Arrange  a  small  table 
or  desk  just  below  the  instrument  so 
that,  when  you  are  called  to  the  'phone, 
you  may  have  pencil  and  paper  handy 
for  making  notes.  An  inspiring  picture 
or  motto  above  the  table,  or  a  vase  of 
flowers,  will  add  to  your  pleasure,  and 
a  book  or  magazine  if  directly  imder 
your  hand  will  afford  many  moments 
for  reading  while  waiting  for  a  *'bus3^- 
line,"  or  between  calls. 

Visit  your  husband's  office  and  ob- 
serve how  convenient  everything  is: 
the  light  from  the  window,  the  desk 
and  all  its  accessories,  the  telephone 
and  revolving  chair.  Why  should  not 
the  average  housewife  have  her  little 
comer  for  the  social  and  intellectual 
part  of  her  life,  and  provide  for  it 
definitely,    especially   when   it   can    be 


FIVE  AND  TEN-CENT  MEALS 


S09 


had    with    no    expense    beyond    some 
thoughtful  planning? 

If  you  have  been  standing  up  in  a 
dark  entry  to  talk  to  your  friends, 
have  the  'phone  changed  at  jonce,  and 
make    these  moments,   snatched    from 


the  work  of  the  kitchen,  a  pleasure  and 
a  relaxation.  Make  the  cultivation 
of  the  intellectual  and  social  life  as 
convenient  as  the  washing  of  dishes, 
and  the  mind  and  the  heart  will  readily 
respond* 


Five  and  Ten-Cent  Meals 

By  Luna  May  Bemis 

"Can  anythinj^  be  so  elegant  as  to  have  few  wants  and  to  serve  them  oneself,  so  as  to  have 
something  lett  to  give,  instead  of  being  always  prompt  to  grab!" — Emerson 


EVERY  small-salaried  Jack  and  Jill 
of  us  is  anxious  to  reduce  living 
expenses  to  a  minimum  figure,  in  order 
to  stretch  otu*  income  over  some  few 
luxuries  and  claim  them  as  our  own. 

I  had  been  frugal  all  the  year  so  that 
I  could  invest  in  an  August  vacation. 
My  trunk  was  packed  and  I  was  trans- 
ported to  a  tree-shaded  city  in  New 
Jersey,  a  city  with  some  country 
privileges. 

I  resolved  to  try  out  the  experiment 
of  cheap  food.  Up  with  the  early  birds 
I  did  my  marketing  along  the  main 
street.  I  bore  home  my  first  day's 
provisions:  One-half  dozen  mixed  rolls 
and  buns,  five  cents;  three  com  muffins, 
five  cents;  one  banana,  one  peach,  and 
one  pear,  five  cents. 

FIRST    GROUP    OF   FIVE-CENT 
MEALS 

Breakfast,  one  roll,  a  bun,  a  corn 
muffin,  and  a  peach.  Lunch,  one  com 
muffin,  a  roll,  a  bun,  and  a  pear.  Sup- 
per, the  remaining  roll,  bun,  corn 
muffin,  and  the  banana. 

My  stock  of  housekeeping  appoint- 
ments consisted  of  a  penknife,  teaspoon, 
and  a  bit  of  salt.  Without  ice,  milk 
except  for  immediate  consumption  was 
forbidden;  butter  was  denied,  likewise, 
bread  and  canned  goods,  from  lack  of  a 
large  knife  and  a  can-opener. 

The  next  day  I  tried  restaurant  fare, 
result  as  follows:  Breakfast,  rolls,  butter 


and  a  cup  of  hot  milk;  lunch,  beef  stew, 
bread  and  butter;  supper,  one  ham  and 
one  tomato-and-lettuce  sandwich  made 
with  graham  bread  These  were  all 
ten-cent  meals. 

In  my  purchases  I  aimed  at  standard 
values,  prices  paid  by  the  rank  and 
file,  not  by  the  upper  tendom.  Each 
article  proved  of  good,  though  not  of 
superior,  value.  The  third  day  I  re- 
turned to  five-cent  meals  in  my  room, 
which  itemized  as  follows:  One  pint  of 
milk  (5  cents)  for  breakfast,  drank 
very  slowly;  lunch,  two  rolls,  one  bun 
and  one-half  cake  of  milk  chocolate 
(five  cents);  supper,  two  buns,  one  roll 
and  the  remaining  chocolate  (five  cents). 

HOME    GROUP    OF    TEN-CENT 
MEALS 

For  my  ten-cent  meals,  self-prepared 
(the  others,  you  will  remember,  were 
restaurant  meals),  I  bought  a  jar  of 
peanut  butter,  ten  cents;  three,  each,  of 
rolls,  buns,  crullers,  and  cookies,  one 
dozen  in  all,  ten  cents;  three  peaches 
and  three  bananas,  ten  cents.  The 
meals  were  all  composed  of  the  same 
list,  a  roll,  bun,  cookie,  cruller,  peach 
and  a  banana. 

Mid  singing  and  sighing,  I  kept  this 
up  for  one  month.  It  was  a  pleasure 
to  serve  myself  daintily  in  my  own 
room,  but  on  the  other  hand,  my  meals 
were  robbed  of  the  highest  charm,  social 
enjoyment.     Each  alternate  day  at  the 


310 


Tttfi  fiOStON  COOtttNG-SCttOOL  MAGAZlMfi 


restaiirant  was  not  satisfactory,  socially, 
for  there  was  scarcely  any  one  but  the 
waiter  to  smile  at  and  talk  to.  I  had 
not  relished  the  iindertaking  at  the 
outset,  but  all  the  difficulties,  except 
the  one  just  mentioned,  proved  to  be 
like  John  Bimyan's  stone  lions,  fiercer  in 
the  anticipation  than  in  the  realization. 
With  this  unpretentious  food  I  was 
hale  and  happy.  I  make  no  claims  that 
my  cheap  meals  contained  food  elements 
in  the  correct  proportions  necessary 
for  the  repair  of  a  day's  waste.  The 
truth  is,  I  think  they  were  not  very  well 
balanced,  as  evidenced  by  the  ten-cent 
meals  in  my  room;  those  contained  too 
much  starchy  substance. 


I  thrived  so  well  on  this  diet  that  1 
concluded  I  would  try  a  similar  plan 
when  I  returned  to  work.  I  was  less 
hungry  in  vacation  days,  and  at  my 
regular  employment  I  feel  sure  I  can 
prosper  famously  upon  ten-cent  meals, 
alternating  between  those  at  a  res- 
taurant and  those  self-prepared  in  my 
own  room.  Sundays  and  holidays  I 
will  confine  myself  to  five-cent  meals, 
unless  I  am  invited  out. 

"Emerson  did  not  care  to  live  in  the 
woods  on  twenty- seven  cents  a  week, 
but  he  had  no  objection  to  a  friend's 
living  so,  if  the  friend  (Thoreau)  foimd 
it  profitable."  Each  must  live  accord- 
ing to  his  ideal. 


When  the  Cooky  Jar  is  Full 

There's  a  time  of  great  rejoicing  and  a  season  of 

delight, 
When  the  household  wheels  run  smoothly  and  the 

household  sky  is  bright. 
When  domestic  troubles  scatter  as  are  feathers 

blown  afar  — 
And  it  comes  when  overflowing  is  the  household 

cooky  jar. 

Jollity,  content  and  pleasure  by  the  hearthstone 

fold  their  wings. 
And  the  children's  happy  voices  join  the  kettle  as 

it  sings. 
Like  a  summer  sky,  good-nature  by  no  murky 

cloud  is  dimmed. 
When  with  seedy  circles,  crisp  and  sweet,  the 

cooky  jar  is  brimmed. 

Oh,    that    glowing    satisfaction!     You     might 

widely,  vainly,  seek 
O'er  the  country  for  its  equal.     Though  it  comes 

but  once  a  week, 
While  its  sweet  enchantment  lingers,  hearts  are 

light  as  zephyr  wool; 
And   'tis  Saturday  that  brings  it  —  when   the 

cooky  jar  is  full. 

Harriet  Whitney  Symonds. 


:f10XJEmm 


THIS  department  is  for  the  benefit  and  free  use  of  our  subscribers.  Questions  relating 
to  redpes,  and  those  pertaining  to  culinary  science  and  domestic  economics  in  general, 
will  be  cheerfully  answered  by  the  editor.  Communications  for  this  department  must  reach  us  before 
the  first  of  the  month  preceding  that  in  which  the  answers  are  expected  to  appear.  In  letters  requesting 
answers  by  mail,  please  enclose  addressed  and  stamped  envelope.  For  menus  remit  $1.00l  Address 
queries  to  Janet  M.  Hill,  Editor.  Boston  Cooniia -School  MAaAaNi«372  Boylston  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 


Query  2081. — "Can  you  give  us  any  new  ideas 
on  how  to  cook  plain  common  vegetables,  as 
cabbage,  Lima  beans  and  string  beans? 

Cooking  Cabbage  and  Beans 

As  a  rule  the  simple  ways  of  cooking 
these  vegetables  are  the  most  satis- 
factory. It  seems  a  waste  of  time  to 
make  them  into  croquettes,  soufH6s, 
timbales  and  the  like.  Raw  cabbage 
is  more  wholesome  than  the  cooked, 
and  it  may  be  prepared  with  all  sorts 
of  salad  dressings  or  as  the  Philadelphia 
Relish  given  so  often  in  these  pages. 
For  variety  the  relish  may  be  stiffened 
with  gelatine  and  turned  into  molds 
decorated  with  strips  or  figures  cut 
from  pimiento.  When  to  be  served 
cooked,  do  not  overcook,  leave  some 
of  the  natural  crispness  in  it.  Serve 
with  cream  sauce  or  Hollandaise  sauce 
poured  over;  or,  cut  in  shreds,  dispose 
in  layers  in  a  baking  dish  with  cream 
sauce  and  grated  cheese  between;  finish 
with  buttered  crumbs  and  let  brown 
in  the  oven. 

String  beans  make  a  delicious  cream 
soup;  pour  through  a  sieve  to  secure 
the  pulp,  flavor  with  the  usual  vege- 
tables and  serve  with  croutons.  As  a 
vegetable,  thicken  with  creamed  butter 
mixed  with  one  or  two  egg  yolks  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  (for  a  pint 
of  beans).  For  a  change  add  onion 
juice  and  chopped  parsley.  Beans  of 
all  sorts  may  be  used  in  salads  and 
any    variety    of    dried    beans    may    be 


baked  like  Boston  or  New  York  baked 
beans,  or  with  tomato  sauce. 


Query  2082.— "Recipe  for  Mustard  Salad 
Dressing;  the  dressing  is  light  brown  or  fawn 
colored,  not  yellow." 

Mustard  Salad  Dressing 

Put  from  a  teaspoonful  to  a  table- 
spoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  such  as  is 
put  up  ready  for  table  use,  in  a  bowl; 
add  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of 
salt  and  paprika,  one-fourth  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  onion  juice  —  if  approved  — 
and  three  tablespoonsful  of  olive  oil; 
mix  all  together  thoroughly,  then  grad- 
ually beat  in  one  tablespoonful  and 
a  half  of  vinegar.     This  will  serve  two. 


Query  2083. — "Recipe  for  Grapefruit  Mar- 
malade." 

Grapefruit  Marmalade 

Take  six  grapefruit  and  four  lemons; 
cut  each  fruit  in  quarters  and  slice 
the  quarters  through  pulp  and  rind 
as  thin  as  possible,  discarding  all  seeds. 
Weigh  the  prepared  fruit,  and  to  each 
pound  allow  three  pints  of  cold  water. 
Pour  the  water  over  the  prepared  fruit 
and  set  aside  for  twenty-four  hours. 
Let  boil  gently  untU  the  rind  is  very 
tender  (it  will  take  five  or  six  hours), 
then  set  aside  until  the  next  day.  Weigh 
the  material  and  to  each  pound  add  one 
pound  of  sugar.  Let  cook  until  the 
syrup  thickens  slightly  on  a  cold  dish. 


311 


312 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Stir  occasionally  while  cooking.  Use 
all  the  water  designated.  When  fin- 
ished the  pieces  of  rind  should  be  held 
in  generous  proportion  of  light-colored 
and  not  very  firm  jelly. 


Query  2084.— "How  may  a  tea  kettle  be  kept 
free  from  lime  or  sediment?  How  may  while 
enamel  ware  be  kept  clean?  Should  salad  be 
served  before  or  after  a  meat  course?" 

Care  of  Tea  Kettle 

Wash  out  the  tea  kettle  once  a  day 
and,  twice  a  week,  scour  with  the  cleans- 
ing agent  best  adapted  to  the  material 
of  which  the  tea  kettle  is  made. 

Cleaning  White  Enamel  Ware 

The  cleaning  agents  advertised  in 
this  magazine  will  not  harm  enamel 
ware;  try  them,  then  use  the  one  best 
adapted  to  your  purpose. 

Place  of  Salad  at  Dinner 

A  crisp  green  vegetable  salad  is 
served  with  the  roast  of  meat  or  poultry. 
Cucumbers  are  served  with  fish;  a 
crisp  green  vegetable,  as  celery,  endive, 
lettuce  etc.,  is  served  with  game;  some- 
times pieces  of  fruit,  as  orange,  are  added 
to  the  green  vegetable  served  with 
game.  French  dressing  is  the  only 
dressing  appropriate  for  service  at  dinner. 


Query  2085.— "Recipe  for  Peppers  Stuffed 
with  Sweetbreads,  Almonds,  etc.,  given  sometime 
ago  in  this  magazine." 

Peppers  Stuffed  with  Sweetbreads, 

Etc. 

Select  eight  green  peppers  that  will 
stand  level;  remove  a  piece  around  the 
stem  with  the  seeds.  Pour  boiling  water 
over  the  peppers,  cover  and  let  stand 
half  an  hour.  Cut  a  parboiled  sweet- 
bread and  a  peeled  tomato  in  small 
pieces,  add  six  blanched  almonds  cut 
in  slices,  one  cup  of  hot  boiled  rice, 
one  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion  and 
salt  to  season;   mix  together  and  use 


to  fill  the  peppers.  Set  the  peppers 
into  a  baking  dish;  add  a  cup  and  a 
half  of  boiling  water  and  let  cook  half 
an  hour.  Serve  on  individual  plates, 
with  HoUandaise  sauce  poured  over 
the  pepper. 


Query  2086. — **What  is  Viscogen  and  how  is 
it  used?" 

Viscogen 

Viscogen  is  a  solution  of  lime  in  sugar; 
it  is  used  to  thicken  thin  cream;  as 
viscogen  contains  nothing  but  lime, 
sugar  and  water,  it  is  harmless.  One- 
fourth  a  teaspoonful  is  used  to  three- 
fourths,  a  cup  of  cream.  To  make  vis- 
cogen, dissolve  five  ounces  of  sugar  in 
ten  ounces  of  water.  Slake  two  oimces 
of  quick  lime  in  six  ounces  of  cold  water; 
strain  to  remove  unslaked  particles  of 
lime;  combine  the  two  liquids  and  shake 
occasionally  for  two  hours.  After  three 
or  four  hours  set  the  mixture  aside  to 
settle,  then  pour  off  the  clear  liquid. 
Store  in  small  bottles.  Use  a  glass 
stopper.  Exposed  to  the  air  viscogen 
darkens  quickly  and  loses  its  strength. 


Query  2087. — **We  live  in  the  country  and 
raise  fine  chickens;  would  like  to  know  how  to 
handle  them  to  have  them  tender  when  properly 
codted." 

• 

Keeping  Poultry  for  Tenderness 

Fowl  should  not  be  fed  for  some  hours 
before  taken  for  food.  Pick  at  once 
without  the  use  of  water;  tie  a  string 
tight  around  the  neck  to  exclude  air, 
and  without  drawing  hang  in  the  re- 
frigerator or  where  there  is  a  good 
circulation  of  cold  air.  On  no  account 
lay  on  ice.  Thus  htmg,  fowl  will  keep 
in  a  sweet  condition  six  or  seven  days 
in  summer,  and  a  longer  time  in  winter. 
This  is  for  fowl  to  be  broiled  or  roasted. 
Fowl  to  be  boiled  or  braised  should  not 
be  kept  quite  as  long.  The  fowl  should 
be  dressed  as  soon  as  they  are  removed 
from  the  cool  air,  and  cooked  as  soon 
as  possible  thereafter. 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  adv«rtued  Good*  —  do  not  accept  aubttkutei 


314 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING^CHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Query  2088. — "Best  recipe  for  Graham  Gems. 

Graham  Muffins  or  Gems 


1  cup  of  Graham  flour 
1  cup  of  pastry  flour 
i  a  cup  of  sugar 
i  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 


4  teaspoonsful  of  baking 

powder 
1  egg 

I  a  cup  of  milk  (about) 
4  tablespoonsf  ul  of  melted 

butter 

Pass  the  dry  ingredients  together 
through  a  sieve,  beat  the  egg^  add  the 
milk  and  the  butter  and  stir  into  the 
dry  ingredients.  A  little  more  milk  may 
be  needed.  Bake  about  twenty-five 
minutes  in  a  hot,  well-buttered,  iron 
muffin  pan. 


Query  2089.—" Recipe  for  DUl  Pickles." 

Dill  Pickles 

Pill  a  quart  jar  with  pickles  about  the 
size  of  a  finger;  between  the  pickles 
put  a  piece  of  <illl,  or  more  if  desired. 
When  the  jar  is  filled  add  a  level  table- 
spoonftil  of  salt.  Potu*  in  cold  water; 
put  dill  on  top  of  pickles,  and  seal  air- 
tight as  for  canned  fruit.  Place  the 
jars  in  the  stm  each  day  until  the  water 
gets  cloudy;  when  the  water  looks  clear 
again,  the  pickles  are  ready  for  use.  A 
few  whole  peppers  may  be  added;  a 
very  little  piece  of  bay-leaf  may  also 
be  added,  if  the  taste  is  liked.  Just  a 
small  piece  of  fresh  red  pepper  may  be 
added  too.  These  pickles  will  keep  for 
a  year,  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  If  a  two- 
quart  jar  is  used,  two  level  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  salt  are  required. 


Query    2090.— "Redpe   for    Russian   Salad 
Dressing." 

Russian  Salad  Dressing 


l^cup  of  mayonnaise 
dressing 

1  teaspoonful  of  pimien- 
tos,  chopped  fine 

1  teaspoonful  of  tarra- 
gon vinegar. 


Query  2091. — "Recipe   for   a   cake   with   a 
lemon  jelly-like  filling. 

Lemon  Cake 


i  a  cup  of  butter 

1  cup  of  sugar 

2  eggs,  beaten  light 
}  a  cup  of  milk 


li  cups  of  flour 
i  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 
i  slightly  rounding  table- 
spoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar 


Filling 

Beat  one  egg  without  separating  the 
white  and  yolk;  add  the  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and 
•two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Cook  and 
stir  over  hot  water  tmtil  the  mixture 
thickens  and  is  smooth.  Bake  the 
cake  in  two  layers;  put  the  filling  be- 
tween the  layers  and  sift  confectioner's 
sugar  over  the  top. 


Query  2092.— "Recipe  for  Bordeaux  Sauce." 

Bordeaux  Sauce 

Put  fotu"  shallots  or  half  the  measure 
of  mild  onion,  chopped  fine,  over  the 
fire  with  a  sprig  of  thyme,  half  a  bay 
leaf  and  half  a  cup  of  claret;  when  re- 
duced about  half  add  two  cups  of  brown 
sauce  and  one  cup  of  brown  veal  broth 
(brown  the  veal  used  for  the  broth)  and 
let  simmer  very  gently  on  one  side  of 
the  dish  until  the  whole  is  of  a  good 
consistency;  strain  and  beat  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter.  Add  the  butter  in 
little  bits.  If  the  sauce  is  to  be  tised 
with  fish,  use  a  brown  fish  stock  in  the 
place  of  the  veal  stock  or  broth. 


1  teaspoonful    of     green 
peppers,  chopped  fine 
I  a  teaspoonful  of^paprilot 
I  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
I  a  cup  of  olive  oil 
}  a  cup  of  chili  sauce 


Prepare  the  mayonnaise  in  the  usual 
manner,  then  to  a  cup  of  the  dressing, 
gradually  beat  in  an  extra  half -cup  of 
oil,  then  the  chili  sauce,  seasonings, 
vinegar  and  fine-chopped  vegetables. 


Query  2093.— "Recipe  for  Rum  Cakes." 

Rum  Cakes  (Baba) 

Take  two  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  half 
a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast  and 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  water.  Mix  the 
yeast  through  the  water  thoroughly,  stir 
in  flour  to  make  a  dough,  knead  into  a 
ball,  cut  at  right  angles  across  the  top 
half  way  through  the  ball,  and  set  in  a 
saucepan  of  lukewarm  water.  Beat  the 
rest  of  the  flour,  the  salt,  the  butter  and 
two  of  the  eggs  tmtil  smooth;  add  the 
other  two  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  beat 
until  smooth ;  add  the  light  ball  of  sponge 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


^^^^  ^    "\        MWne/Jif/fBiO^A/aZjWifO—MBSr/iVTVBafQM^^l 


Buy  advertiied  Good*  —  do  not  accept  lubititutci 


316 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


and  again  beat  until  smooth.  Turn  into 
well-buttered  timbale  molds;  when 
nearly  doubled  in  bulk,  bake  about 
twenty  minutes.  Boil  one  cup  of  sugar 
and  half  a  cup  of  water  four  or  five  min- 
utes; add  half  a  cup  of  rum.  Turn  the 
hot  syrup  over  the  hot  cakes;  roU  the 
•cakes  in  the  syrup  tmtil  the  whole  is 
absorbed.  These  are  best  when  hot, 
but  may  be  served  cold. 

<pUBRT  2094.— "Can  French  Dressing  be  made 
ttf  lemon  juice  instead  of  vinegar?" 

Lemon' Juice  in  French  Dressing 

French  dressing  is  often  made  with 
lemon  juice. 


QuBRT  2095.— "Recipe  for  Fish  Timbales  for 
«  o«mpany  dinner." 

Fish  Timbales 

Purchase  enough  halibut  to  secure 
one  potmd  of  flesh,  free  from  trimmings 
and  bone.  About  one  pound  and  a  half 
of  fish  should  be  purchased.  To  the 
trimmings  add  half  an  onion,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  sweet  basil  (dried)  or  a 
branch  of  the  fresh  herb,  two  branches 
of  parsley  and  five  or  six  slices  of  carrot, 
with  cold  water  to  cover,  and  let  sim- 
mer half  an  hotir  for  stock.  Scrape 
the  pulp  of  the  fish  from  the  fibres; 
poimd  this  in  a  bowl,  then  gradually,  a 
little  at  a  time,  beat  in  half  a  cup  of  but- 
ter, beaten  to  a  cream;  add  meanwhile 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of 
pepper  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  onion 
juice;  then  beat  in  three  raw  eggs,  one 
at  a  time.  Butter  thoroughly  timbale 
molds  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley 
or  chopped  truffles;  put  the  fish  mixture 
into  the  molds  by  spoonfuls,  shaking 
it  down  well,  and  making  the  top  smooth. 
Set  into  a  dish  on  several  folds  of  paper 
or  cloth,  stuTotmd  with  boiling  water 
and  let  cook  in  the  oven  tmtil  firm  in 
the  center.  The  water  should  not  boil 
during  the  cooking.  Serve,  turned  from 
the  molds,  with  fish  Bechamel  sauce 
potired  aroimd  them. 

Fish  Bechamel  Sauce 

Melt  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter; 


in  it  cook  three  tablespoonftils  of  flour 
and  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt;  add  one 
cup  of  the  fish  stock  and  half  a  cup  of 
cream  and  stir  until  boiling.  Beat  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  in  little  bits,  and 
then  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

Fish  Timbales  may  also  be  made  by 
the  recipe  for  chicken  timbales,  given 
in  the  Seasonable  Recipes  for  this  month. 
Only  fine  fish,  like  halibut,  sword-fish 
and  salmon  can  be  used  for  timbales. 
Bass  and  haddock  are  not  suitable  for 
this  purpose. 


Query  2096.— "Recipe  for  Golden  Parfait." 

Golden  Parfait 

I  a  cup  of  sugar  1}  cups  of  double  cream 

I  a  cup  of  water  }  a  cup  of  French  fruit 

5  egg-yoXka  Rum  or  sugar  syrup 

Let  the  fruit  soak  in  the  rum  or  syrup 
several  hot^s  or  overnight.  Cook  the 
sugar  and  water,  washing  down  and 
covering  as  in  making  frosting,  to  238°  F. 
Pour  the  syrup  in  a  fine  stream  on  the 
yolks,  beaten  very  light,  beating  con- 
stantly meanwhile;  return  to  the  fire 
over  hot  water  and  beat  until  the  mix- 
ture thickens.  Beat  occasionally  until 
cold.  Have  the  cream  beaten  quite 
fine.  Line  the  mold  (quart)  with  paper, 
then  chill  thoroughly;  sprinkle  some 
of  the  fruit  into  the  mold.  Fold  the 
egg  mixture  and  cream  together  and 
use  to  fill  the  mold,  sprinkUng  in  fruit 
here  and  there.  Fill  the  mold  to  over- 
flow. Cover  with  paper,  press  the  cover 
down  over  the  paper  and  pack  in  equal 
measures  of  salt  and  crushed  ice.  Let 
stand  about  three  hours  —  Renew  the 
ice  when  needed. 


i  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
2  egg  whites 


Query  2097.— "Recipe  or  Fritter  Batter." 

Fritter  Batter 

( For  Dipping  Fruit,  Fish,  Etc.) 

2  egg  yolks 
}  a  cup  of  milk 
1  cup  of  flour 

.  Beat  the  yolks,  add  the  milk  and  stir 
very  gradually  into  the  flour  and  salt 
sifted  together.  Set  aside  several  hours. 
When  ready  to  use,  beat  in'the  egg-white, 
beaten  dry. 


New  Books 


Work  and  Programs  for  Women's  clubs. 

By    Caroune    French    Benton. 

Cloth,    12mo.    Price,    $1.25    net; 

Boston.  Dana  Estes  &  Co. 
The  time  has  long  since  passed  when 
a  special  field  is  needed  for  the  extension 
of  women's  clubs.  Actual  demonstra- 
tion has  proven  their  worth  to  the  indi- 
vidual and  to  society.  Multitudes  of 
women  on  farms,  on  remote  ranches,  in 
little  villages,  in  great  cities,  have  felt 
their  impetus  to  a  broader  and  more 
useful  life.  They  have  instructed  those 
of  little  education.  They  have  given  a 
wider  horizon  to  those  hemmed  in  by 
circumstances.  They  have  trained  the 
timid  to  speak,  and,  of  late  years,  they 
have  prepared  the  way  for  women  of 
leisure,  and  influenced  them  to  take  up 
what  is  wanting, —  larger  housekeeping, 
—  the  bettering  of  social  and  civic  con- 
ditions. 

In  this  valuable  little  book,  the  author 
not  only  gives  in  a  clear  and  concise 
manner  the  best  means  of  organizing, 
and  establishing  permanently  women's 
clubs  of  all  sorts,  but  she  gives  full  years' 
programs  suitaUe  for  use  by  dubs  of  all 
sizes  and  in  all  localities. 

This  is  a  very  comprehensive  and 
useful  guide  to  all  those  who  wish  to 
know  how  to  conduct  clubs. 

The  New  Cooking.    By  Lenna  Frances 

Cooper.    Cloth.   Price,  $1.50,  Bat^ 

tie  Creek;  The  Good  Health  Pub. 

Co. 

"What  you   eat   to-day    is    walking 

around    and     talking    tomorrow,"    so 

says  Dr.  Kellogg,  superintendent  of  the 

Battle  Creek  Sanitarium  —  recognized 

as  one  of  the  world's  leading  authorities 

on    dietetics  and    hygiene      Food  to 

the  body  is  as  fuel  to  the  engine.     Good 

wholesome  food  hygienically  prepared 

gives  life,  vigor,  energy  and  efficiency. 

Therefore  modem  cookery  has  become, 

not  merely  an  art,  but  a  science.    And 

the  housewife  is  now  recognized  as  the 


guardian  of  the  health  of  the  home,  the 
controller  of  conditions  whereby  the 
physical  welfare  of  its  members  may  be 
promoted. 

This  book  contains  Miss  Cooper's 
favorite  recipes,  inlcuding  practically  all 
the  dainty  and  delectable  health  dishes 
in  use  at  the  Battle  Creek  Sanitarium. 
It  is  a  reliable  guide  in  the  kitchen  —  a 
scientific  teacher  —  a  book  to  be 
referred  to. 

K  the  question  in  dietetics  be  that 
of  "high  protein"  or  "low  pro- 
tein," it  teaches  quite  fully  and  exten- 
sively the  preparations  of  the  latter 
dishes  and,  at  the  same  time,  how  to 
serve  a  palatable  and  attractive  meal. 
We  find  naught  but  good  things  in  this 
volume. 

Around-the-World  Cook  Book.  By  Mary 
Louise  Barroll.    Price,  $1.50  net, 
postage  13  cents,  New  York;  The 
Century  Co. 
It  is  the  aim  of  this  book  to  introduce 
into  American  households  some  of  the 
toothsome  dishes  of  other  lands;  and  to 
suggest  to  the  American  housewife  that 
she  make  use  of  the  best  cooking  of  New 
England,  the  South  and  the  West,  for 
the  distinctive  dishes  of  these  regions 
should  be  known  and  enjoyed  through- 
out the  land. 

All  the  recipes  have  been  tested  and 
are  therefore  reliable.    They  have  been 


R£FRIGERATORS-IC£  BOXES 

and  all  places  where  meals  and  foods 

aie  kept  should  be  regularly  disinfected 

and  purified  Dy  using 

Plaf  fii  rJbhaddss. 

TbeOdxIessDiBin/kctanL 

Destroys  germs  and  foul  odors,  does  not 
permeate  the  food. 

Safe,  EfiReimnt  and  Eeonondeal.  Soid  Evmrywhmwm 


HENRY   B.   PLATT 
4.2  Cliff  8tr«ttt.  N«w  York  City,  N.  Y. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

318 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Say,  "Give  Me  This  Cook" 

For  My  Christmas  Gift  This  Year 


The  20th  century  automatic  cook  that 
cooks  without  watching,  letting  you  out  of 
the  kitchen  as  soon  as  food  is  prepared, 
roasting,  baking,  broiling  and  stewing 
without  any  care  or  attention. 

The  economical  cook,  cutting  fuel  bills 
to  a  fraction  and  preventing  waste  in  food. 

The  competent  cook,  that  makes  every- 
thing richer,  tenderer,  fuller  flavored, 
with  double  nutritive  value. 

The  Punctual  Cook,  that  gives  you  meals 
on  time  without  trouble. 


The 


Fireless  Cook  Stove 
Roaster  and  Baker 

Saves  the  hours  you  now  spend  hanging  * 
over  the  stove  and  looking  into  the  oven.  . 

The  exclusive,  patented  steam  valve  at- 
tachment does  better   baking  and  roasting  than 
you  can  do  in  ordinary  ovens,  without  watching 
or  care,  after  food  cmce  goes  in. 

Cooks  breakfast  overnight  and  dinner  while  you 
are  sewing,  shopping  or  visiting. 

Keeps  food  hot  and  appetizing  even  when  din- 
ner is  delayed  two  hours. 

The  Caloric  has  been  twice  endorsed  by  The 
Good  Housekeeping  Institute,  first  in  1908,  again 
January,  1918. 

It  is  the  only  Fireless  made  with  a  seamless 
aluminum  lining,  the  onfy  Fireless  with  the  steam 
valve  attachment. 

THE  CALORIC  COMPANY 

D«|rt.  36  Janesnlle,  Wwccmain    (i*) 


SPECIAL  CHRISTMAS- 
CRATED  CALORIC 

A  $2.25  Gift 
Gomel  With  It 

For  the  thoiuuuls  who  wsot 
this  Bpleiidid  Chrfitmu  PreacDt 
we  bmre  devised  onr  tpcciftl        . 

ChriatmaM-Crafd  Caloric. 

Which  meao*  we  pack  the 
Celoric  you  select  in  a  band- 
■ome,  white  -  wramied,  rmea- 
cnted  package,  tied  with  jolly 
Holly  red,"  all  ready  for  Ito 
place  undei  the  CluiabDaa  tree. 


somethiag  everr  bontekecper 
needs  and  wanb,  that  woald 
cost  $2.2S  If  yon  httafht  it  tor 


It  is  not  a  part  of  Calorie 
equipment  but  ■  apetdal  Chrfst- 
mu  Ex^m,  youn  only  this  Christ- 
mas Ume. 

Wt^  iu  and  we  will  send  jon 
the  name  of  the  dealei  who  can 
show  yon  this  Free  Calorie  Gift. 
There  Is  only  one  in  your  dty. 
Nine  oat  of  ten  dealers  will  dii- 


seelDft  the  real,  seatoleH,  almnl- 
□um-lined  Caloric  Cook  Stove  la 
to  visit  the  right  dealer.  The 
only  way  to  lean)  hli  name  li  to 
write  as.     Better  do  It  today.      »' 


Buy  advertised  Goods — do  not  accept  nilMdtntai 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


gleaned  from  many  sources  in  many  lands 
The  Century  Company  have  already 
published  some  excellent  cook-books. 
"With  this  volume,  the  culinary  glean- 
ings of  a  naval  officer's  wife,  they  add 
another  to  this  list. 

"One  homely  thought  prevails  the  world  around; 
Food   well    prepared;     we    meet 
ground." 


A  Case  for  the  Hospital 
A  dapper  Uttle  drummer  was  com- 
pelled by  circimistances  to  pass  the 
night  in  a  village  hotel  in  that  part  of 
Illinois  popularly  called  "Egypt."  At 
breakfast  he  ordered  soft-boiled  eggs. 
The  waitress  deposited  two  in  the  shell 
before  him.  Looking  up,  the  drummer 
said,  "Please  break  the  eggs  in  a  glass." 
With  a  withering  look  of  scorn  the 
buxom  waitress  replied,  "Well,  good 
Lord!  if  you  can't  break  two  soft-boiled 
eggs  in  a  glass  you'd  better  go  to  a 
hospital. 


At  Your  Service 

In  "CMier's" 
ire,  gentlemen;  here's  the  whole  gai^S°f 


South  to  Balboa  and  north  to  Colon. 
Yea,  the  canal  is  our  letter  of  reference; 

LooL  at  Culebra  and  glance  at  Gatun; 
What  can  we  do  for  you  —  got  any  perference, 

Wirelesa  to  Saturn  or  briage  to  the  moon? 

Don't  send  ui  back  to  a  life  that  ia  flat  again. 

We  who  have  ahattered  a  continent'*  ifMne; 
Office  work  —  Lmd,  we  couldn't  do  that  again! 

Haven't  you  wmethinf  that'a  more  in  our  line? 
Got  any  river  they  ny  isn't  croasable? 

Got  any  mountain!  that  can't  be  cut  through? 
We  a^ecialize  in  the  wholly  impoasible. 

Doing  things  "nobody  ever  could  do." 

Take  a  good  look  at  the  whole  husky  crew  tA  us. 

Engineers,  doctors,  and  steam-ahovel  men; 
Taken  together  you'll  find  quite  a  few  of  ua 

Soon  to  be  ready  for  trouble  again. 
Bronicd  by  the  tropical  aun  that  is  blistery, 

Chockful  of  eneigy,  vigor,  and  tang, 
Trained  by  a  task  that's  the  biggest  m  hiatory. 

Who  has  a  job  for  this  Panama  gang? 

By  Bebiom  Bbaut 


Bnjr  advertiKd  Goods— 


Aids  in  Selection 

Professors  of  anthropology,  sociology, 
and  economics  from  the  Golden  Gate 
to  Eastport  have  given  descriptions  of 
the  ideal  bride  and  husband  with  words 
of  advice  and  solemn  warning  to  those 
contemplating  the  bond  of  matrimony, 
and  now  M.  EHe  Dautrinin  the  Paris 
Figaro  tells  young  girls  how  they  can  know 
the  character  of  a  man.  Wateh  him  at 
table.  "If  he  should  bend  over  his 
knife  and  fork  and  finish  his  roast  in 
three  gulps  beware!  He  is  not  the 
man  that  will  be  able  to  submit  to 
tender  sympathy  and  caresses."  If  he 
eats  without  enjoyment,  he  will  never 
appreciate  his  squaw's  hats  or  style 
of  dress.  Immoderately  fond  of  sweets, 
he  will  nag.  Does  he  prefer  the  cheese 
and  roast?  He  will  be  muscular  and 
placid.  A  bread-eater  is  fond  of  the 
country. 

The  best  test  of  a  future  husband  is 
to  watch  him  at  the  moment  of  dessert. 
See  how  he  handles  a  peach.  Does  he 
take  it  distractedly  or  like  a  man  in  a 
hurry?     Does    he    swallow   it    hastily? 

>i  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Good*  —  do  not  accept  subetitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Then  say  to  yourself:  'He  is  not  the 
husband  for  me.'  But  if  he  takes  it 
slowly  and  tenderly,  like  a  connoisseur 
who  appreciates  what  he  eats,  if  he  does 
not  swallow  it  at  once,  but  peels  it  with 
the  air  of  an  artist,  and  treats  it  with 
devotion,  then  do  not  hesitate  to  marry 
him  as  quickly  as  you  can."  Is  this 
fantastical?  No  more  so  than  advice  in 
the  matter  of  eugenics  that  has  come 
from  Cambridge,  Worcester,  Chicago 
and  Berkeley. 


"The  troublewith  this  world, Raggsy," 
said  Walker,  the  tramp,  "is  just  here. 
In  Central  America  bananas  grow 
wild,  but  there  ain't  no  markit  for  'em. 
Up  here,  where  there  is  a  markit  for 
'em,  they  don't  grow  wild.  What 
nacher  wants  to  do  to  help  the  workin' 
man  is  to  have  things  grow  wild  where 
there's  a  markit  for  them  things."  — 
Harper's  Bazar. 


As  one  of  the  great  South  African 
liners  was  steaming  into  Southampton 
Harbor,  a  grimy*  coal-lighter  floated 
immediately  in  front  of  it.  An  officer 
on  board  the  vessel,  observing  this, 
shouted,  "Clear  out  of  the  way  with 
that  barge!"  The  hghterman,  a  native 
of  the  Emerald  Isle,  shouted  in  reply, 
"Are  ye  the  captain  of  that  vessel?" 
"No,"  answered  the  officer.  "Then  spake 
to  your  equals,"  said  Pat.  "I'm  the 
captain  of  this. 


Didn't  Have  Time  to  Grow 

A  small  office  boy,  who  had  worked  in 
the  same  position  for  two  years  on  a 
salary  of  three  dollars  a  week,  finally 
plucked  up  courage  enough  to  ask  for 
an  increase  in  wages. 

"How  much  more  would  you  like  to 
have?"  inquired  the  employer. 

"Well,"  answered  the  lad,  "I  think 
two  dollars  more  a  week  would  not  be 
too  much." 

"Well,  you  seem  to  me  a  rather  small 
boy  to  be  earning  five  dollars  a  week," 
remarked  his  employer. 

"I  suppose  I  do.     I  know  I'm  small 


Buy  advertised  Goodi  —  do  not  accept  lubatitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Are  the  ONLY  Ranges  with  These  Improvements: 

1.  Single  Damper  Control 

2.  Two  Hods  m  die  Base 

3.  Cup^oint  Oven  Flues 

The  Single  Damper  controls  fire  and  oven  better  tiian  two  dampers 
can.   Push  the  knob  to  "Kindle,"  "Bake"  or  "Check,"    The  damper 
TniBfair*s  commoH  to  other  ranges 
ossible  in  Crawfords. 

leep  Ash  Hod*  instead  of  the 
isy  ash  pan,  catehes  aliof  the 
nd  can  be  emptied  without 
Coa/Z/m/ beside  it. 

fbrd  Ovens  bake  best;   the 
curved  Cup-Joint  Oven 

Flues    heat  the  oven   in 
■  part  alike. '  No  "cold  cor- 
no  "sconcing  spots." 


t  Otuu  wUmI  if  daL«a  — slnatMl 
!•)  or  and  (■ingU}.  TliaM  sv«b«  ar* 
txploMiaiu  M«  Impnwibla.  Tlia  and 
ran  hmm  mn  astm  breOar  at  tha  top* 
rhidi  make*  tha  ivo*k  Mittar. 


Adithm  CXAWFORD  Agtitt  to,i 
Mi  Mui  ifnf •  nt  for  c/rcolon* 


WALKER  4  PRATT  MFO.  COMPANY.  31-35  Union  St,  Boston 


Buy  advertiMd  Goods  —  do  not  accept  BubstitutM 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  au9C>titui<:s 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


AVALON(B"«')TUNA 

California'a  Fish  De  Lux* 


'  I  'riE  TUNA  is  an.  ariatocratic  fish.  He  condescends  to  dwell  in  but 
X  two  places  in  the  world  —  the  mild  Pacific  near  Catalina  Island, 
California,  and  the  warm  Mediterranean. 

Tlie  California  Tuna,  packed  under  the  Avalon  Breuid,  is  white  and 
tender,  and  tastes  like  breast  of  chicken.  It  is  cooked  as  soon  as  caught, 
and  comes  to  you  ready  to  serve  whenever  you  are  ready  to  take  it  from 
its  air-tight  tin  package. 

AVALON  Brand  TUNA  is  an  inexpensive  food  —  much  more  so 
dian  meat  When  you  buy  AVALON  Brand  TUNA  you  receive  noth- 
ing but  solid  TUNA  meat  —  no  bones  or  skin^ — no  particle  of  waste  — 
you  can  and  will  eat  every  delicious  morsel. 

You  can  serve  AVALON  Brand  TUNA  in  many  different  ways  and 
on  any  occasion. 


TUNA  LOAF  TUNA  CUTLETS 

Empty  contents  of  one  can  AVALON  BRAND  Melt  two  and  one-half  tsblespooos  fautter.  add 

TUNA.     Beat  two  egn  and  add  one  cup  bread  one-tfaird  cup  flour :  stir  till  ainDDtb.  add  one  cup 

crutnbi,    one   teaspoonlul     lemon    juice,    chopped  milk,  cook  ti[l  boilins.  itimna  conatantly,  add  two 

DBnley,  green  peppen-.   nalt  and  pepper  to  tasle.  cans  AVALON  BRAND  TUNA    mil  well,  aeuon 

nish  with  PBrtley  and  sliced  alulled  olives.    Serve  Mould  in  cutlet  ihape.  fry  in  good  hotfat  and  nerve 

GiTC  thew  tecipet  a  triaL     Otda  the  Tuna  Irom  jour  grocs.     Write  for  FREE  booklet  of  Tuna  Receipt!  to 

THE  VAN-THOMAS  COMPANY 

353  East  Second  Stnet LOS  ANGELES»  CAL. 


Buy  advertiied  Goods  —  do  not  accept  nibatitiite* 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Table  Crockerys 
China  and  Glass 

Adapted  to  Thanksiiivinfi 

Intending  buyers  'will  find  an  extensive 
stocK  to  cHoose  from  in 


Dinner  Sets 
i%5  up  to  $1000.00) 

Entree  Sett 
($3.60  up  to  $78) 

Pish  Sets 
($5  up  to  $135) 


SaUd  Sets 

($4  up  to  $60) 

Ice  Cream  Sets 
($9.76  up  to  ISO) 

Game  Sets 
($6.60  up  to  $136) 


Single  Doxens  of  Hi^h-Class  China  Plates 
for  Coarse  Dinners 

BeoHlon  Cops  and  Saucers 
KameUns,  all  Talues 

GrapefmU  Plates  or  Bowls 
After  Dinner  Coffee  Sets 

Prench  Porcelain  Sonfflo  Dishes 
Macaroni  Dishes  and  Stands 

Tnrhey  Platters  and  Plates 

Paris  Cafe  Entree  Dishes 

CoTored  Cheese  Dishes 

Pireproof  Welsh  KareUt  Dishes 

Umbrella  and  Cane  Holders  —  Ferneries  and 
Table  Decorations  —  Plant  Pots  and  Pedestals  — 
Window  Boxes. 

In  the  Dinner  Set  Department  will  be  seen  many 
aittractlTe  Stoch  Patterns  always  readily  matched, 
mlao  other  designs  not  to  be  duplicated. 

In  the  Glass  Department  will  also  be  found  all 
i^rades,  from  the  low  cost  pressed  ware  to  the 
etched  and  costly  rich  cut  specimens  adapted  to 
Weddhif  Gifts. 

Pinter  Bowls  —  Vases  ~-  Cocktails  —  Roomers  — 
Sorbets  —Creme  de  Menthos  ~  Cordials — Lemonades 
—  Champa|nes  —  Hocks  —  Decanters — Carafes,  etc. 

Kitchen  Ware  Department 

Comprises  everything  pertaining  to  the  home  in  this 
line,  adapted  for  tine  family,  club,  hotel,yacht,  or  pub- 
lic institution,  including  new  French  Porcelain  Souffle 
Dishes,  Shirred  Egg  Dishes,  Egg  Poachen,  Cafe- 
Jieres,  Casseroles.  Cocotfces. 

Tea  Infnsers. 


and  odd  China  Pitchers,  fiom  the  ordinary 
«p  to  the  costly.    Over  800  kinds  to  choose  from. 

In  brief,  eyerything  pertaining  to  Crockery,  Por- 
celain and  Glassware  connected  with  home,  hotel  and 
dub,  in  sets  or  parts  of  sets  up  to  the  costly  table 


Itutpection  Invited 

Jones,  McDuffee  4  Stratton  Co. 

CBOCKEBT.  CHINA  AND  GLASS 

(10  Floors) 
WBOLESALE  AND  IBTAIL 

33  Franklin  Street,  Cor.  Hawley 

BieAr  'WasHln^ton  and  Sxitnmer  Sts.,  Boston 


Exquisite  Desserts 

and 

Delicious 
Ice    Cream 

Made  With 

Junket  Tablets 

Your  grocer  or  druggist  sells  them 
or  we  mail  postpaid  ten  tablets  to 
make  ten  quarts  for  10  cents  and 
give  you  the  charming  brochure 
'* Junket  Dainties"  free. 

CHR.    HANSEN'S 
LABORATORY 


Box  2507. 


Little  Falls,  N.  Y. 


FOR  DAINTINESS 
AND  FLAVOR 

both  combined  to  give  a  delicious 
variety  to  sweets  and  dainties,  try 

HAPLEINE 

(THE  FUVOt  DE  LUIE) 

Used  like  any  other 
flavoring,  it  offen  a  variety 
dainty  dcuaousnett 
of  flavor  in  cake,  icings, 
puddings,  ices  and  sugar 
synip. 

Grocert  SeU  It 

Scad  2c  ftaap  for  Redpc  Book,  "MapMaoDaiitiof' 

CRESCENT  MANUFACTURING  CO 

Dept.  R  SEATTLE.  WN. 


Buy  sdvertiaed  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

326 


I 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Do  You  Make  Candy? 

If  you  do,  be  tare  of  its  goodness  —  stop  guessing. 
Mistakes  mean  waste  of  material  and  time,  so  don't  make 

""  Use  a  " wader"  Home 
Candy  Makers'  Thermometer 

It  insures  uniform  results  and  saves  time.  It  is  easily 
cleaned,  is  adapted  to  any  style  of  dish  and  has  an  ad- 
justable clip  for  holding  it  in  position. —  It  is  guaranteed 
accurate. 

For  sale  by  your  dealer  —  at  a  reasonable  price.  If  he 
cannot  supply  you,  we  will  do  so  direct 

CHARLES  WILDER  COMPANY,  Troy,  N.  Y. 

Makfin  of  the  QuarantteJ  Acctirate  ThermomeUa  a 

Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


witha  KNOX  Phn  Poddinc  bmJ*  «tl> 

^^  VEJLIIKLIN*  ^^ 


B«t  wU*  d  1  <a  oil;  xM  I  ttl>k»«f>> 


Sum!  /or  (At*  FKE£  Raapt  Book 

Ab  ilMatad  book  of  nc^a  in  DHsarta.  )*lll». 
raddlBsa,  CudI**,  lea  CnaBs,  ShBibaU. 
Salada.  ate,  nt  FREE  tor  row  mca  •  vm. 

PU  tcmpU  for  2t  tlmnp  and  troar't  aami. 

CHARLES  B.  KNOX  CO. 

7  Koox  Ave.  Johnatowa,  N.  Y. 


Patent  Ironing  Board  Cover 


Special  Featorea : 


^a  Wriaioaa. 
No  TachtBd. 


Dsaa  Not  LoH  Ita  TUck-    | 

■aBvvabl*  Facl_d  sLaata 
Ikal  nay  b-  lalaam- 
darad  or  KaplM>d  bv 
Naw  OHa. 

■  Tkw      LaaU  a  Lt(a  TIb-.  Tm  Vita 

ha  Baal  aad   Oaly  Inalai  Board   Cover  of  I 


A  parlaci  Slaa 
rail  lata  aa 


■rd  caa  ba  aaada  bv  ladai  loriatbar 
lai  aad,  althar  at  vklck  will  alao 
llaatalaavBpad. 


locka  »  (rrftnccd  that  the  ccrecr  miv  caiilr 
oearawn  anoaiiha  DaiTOWfiadaof  the  board  no  matter  Iww 
rio^DC  tbc  endi  ouir  be. 

E*«TteiidenFVBboattbehau*elloId  now-a^laT*  i*  toward 

■facet*  on  your  board  Bonrr  tban  be  anDoyoI  br  baTiu  In 
ramoT*  the  tacka  atiri  ta  throoRli  anotber  tacklna  piDcaa 
■DdtheannothiniDutiifwrinkteaF  Hairaariwtience  been 
■erael)' tdted  by  IibtIdc  tadothiar    Note  the  liumlredaof' 

tryins  moment  tliat 


on  reccliit  of  S 

JULIEN  MANUFAGTURING  CO..  lac,   ELMIRA.  N.  Y. 


Your  OpportuDlty  to  Secure"  ' 
INTERLOCKING      DAAIT/^A  CI^C 

SECTIONAL    DUUHLAo&o 


Without  Cost  to  You 

An  ulraordiDsry  opportunity  to  have  the  beet  in  S<£tional  BookcaK* 
inyour  Home  wltboul  expense.  A  pmUl  will  bring  the  Century  Plan, 
togethei  with  our  bandiomely  illuilraled  Catalog  Irani  whicb  you  may 
moke  any  selection  desired. 

A  Sixe  lor  Evary  Book A  Styla  for  Ev«ry  Bone 

CeaturyBookcaMsembodv  modern,  attractive  designs  and  ekeluM'vo 
features.  Furnished  in  all  standard  ftoi«he«,  Biving  full  scope  for 
individual  selection.  Hakea  a  moat  praotlsal  and  dlaUnoUw 
Cbriatmaa  gift. 

.A'^'ANTiJDT^^.^^t.^iM.SSriSirl.daj  tm  «. 
CBNTrRT  CABINET  CO.,  Kla ""'^  awaa*.  CtJett,  ».  T, 


Buy  adveniied  Gooda  —  do  not  ucept  Bubttitute* 


.  ADVERTISEMENTS 


0£*C  NEW  RECIPES 
ODO  NEW  MENUS 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 
THE 

DINNER 
CALENDAR 

FOR 

1914 

OwUiiii»g  365  oiigiiu]  Mcnin  and  Recipe*,  one  fot  each 
day  in  tte  y«i.  Hutdwme  cover  in  ail  Mpa,  printed 
in  goM,  blue  ■nd  Bgbt  green.  Eecli  p>^  bai  mi  nrtudc 
borilet  detipi  printed  in  two  co]«>-  Thii  ij  by  fai  tte 
mod  eUbotale  celeodu  of  it*  kind  ever  placed  upon  the 

Price  60c.  btueed 
SULLY  AND  KLEINTEICH 

373  FOURTH  AVENUE.   NCW  YORK 


"Pease's  Home 
Candy  Maker" 


Our  latest  book  which  teaches 
you  the  secrets  of  candy  mak- 
ing. It  contains  about  fif^ 
ledpes  which  cannot  be  pur- 
chased from  any  confectioner, 
and  to  simplified  that  a  child 
can  understand  them. 

TTiis  book,  teUh  complete  trtstnuHona.  will  be 
aent  to  any  odAeat,  postpaid,  for 

$1.00 

It  expUiu  the  we  o(  Com  Ejmp  in 
caady  making.      Write  lot  booLlcL 

PEASE  BROTHERS 

p.  O.  Bos  306  ELGIN,  ILL. 


Buy  advotiaed  Goods — do  not  accept  subaUtutM 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Here  is  deliciousness 

and  goodness  for 

=^your  soup= 


^ 


Hm  nunigtr  ol  a  my  higb-frade  gnxaj  wid  ibe 
MberiUjr: 

"  if  more  houiawivM  knew  aiwut  Komlal  ibey  would 
keep  it  in  tha  home  all  the  time  and  lue  it  wIkb  tbejr 
with  Kun^ag  opcciiltr  nice.  It  ii  ■  great  6i£e»cy. ' 
Komlat  ii  the  coDcentrated.  delicioiu  Tuniiithini 
OMDCS  of  tender  •weet  com.  One  can  make*  loap  ht 
tea  people.  It  makea  fine  friitEB  wd  alhet  dun. 
OriManr  canned  corn  <—■'«""  ike  bnllt  ai  wd  m  me 
•alii£&ed  content!  of  ibe  kendt.  b  makios  KMvlet, 
waliln  ool  da  milk  ef  iha  bnA  iMb  ri»  an  chna  aad 
Ida,  a^  •>■  ^kTloBc.  wkhiM  mmj  aitiTiaii  hiJk  iTbcU 


MAGIC  COVER 

Ifasic  ODTei  for  Pa*ti7  Board  awl  HolUnc  Fin:  chamleallT 


imiBeDdad  tw  leading  taaclianaf 

r.  MACY 


We  have  an  AtbacHve 
Proposition 

to  auke  to  thow  who  wiU  lal«  ndn 
■  (ot 


THE  BOSTON 

COOKING-SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE 

Write  ui  if  you  wiih  to  canvan  yoiK 
lovra  or  i[  yoa  wiih  to  lecure  only  a  few 
aunei  unoog  you  faieadi  and  KquanU 
■BceL  Stut  the  wo^  at  once  wcl  yw 
wil  be  turpriMd  bow  euily  you  can  aoa 
ke,  twenty  oc  fifty  dolUn. 

Adcfeo 

SUBSCRIfmON  DEPARTMENT 

Boston  Cooking-School 

Magazine  Co. 
BOSTON.  IMASSACHUSETn 


For  Xmas — Moth-Prooj ' 


BT  PAtCEL  POST  PREPAID  $2.00 

SIX  CUT  GLASS  SHERBERTS 

You  can  serve  Fruit  Salads,  Des-" 
serta  or  Preser\ed  Fruits  in  these 
dainty  cut  glass  dishes.  Nolunch- 
con  or  dinner  complete  without 
them.  They  are  absolutely  guaranteed  cut 
glass.  Money  back  if  not  pleased.  Order 
direct  from  this  advertisement. 


:athee 


direct  from  outlacl'ory.     Order  now  fDr^Chriilmu' 
Addrau  D.BI.  A. 

ORIENTAL  CUT  GLASS  CO. 

9  So.  DMhib  Stnat  BUFFALO.  N.  Y. 


Buy  adevrtised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substiti 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


A  Perfect  Knife  for  Grape  Fruit  ^"^^T^.SS^.^" 

The  bUdv  of  this  knife  Is  made  tiotn  the  flaert  catleij  ateel,  flnely  tempered,  curred  Juit  to  th« 
right  kngle  and  ground  to  «  very  keen  edge,  will  remove  the  center,  cut  cleanly  and  quickly  around 
tbe  edge  and  dlTide  the  fruit  into  legmenta  ready  for  eating. 

The  leatnre  oT  tbe  blwle  Istbe  ronnd  end  whicb  procoti  cutdnc  throoafa  the  outer  ikin.  A  irape  finit  Icnita 
'     "  '     ityuaWaklictfinit. 


u  (rape  fruit  are  srowlof  k  nptdlr  in  i 
For  SaU  If)  all  dialtrt.  Prla  50  a 
TtaliU  at  phct   a  ifitft  wlU  m  uat 

THE  EMPIRE  KNIFE  CO. 


>pululty  u 

Ij  tadt.    It  mi  /oand  at  imir  4t«ltrt,  npen 


WInsted,  Codd. 


Tie 
y" 

bf,  bat  taOak  boolE  i< 

Kitchen  Bouquet 

(  Rif.  U.  S.  Pal.  Off.  ) 

JtMa&daKiKbn  Bonwt  xkM  le  mut  ud  •ucsi  bubim. 

rim  mnA  KiM.  oc  basi  nnli.  f<m]  «  Uk.  «n  dnlh.  nU 

piqyii*.  Bwniint  odcr  ud  ric^  brown  color,  Bad  bveA  a  ddkiaut 

ud  ifcliai.lH»  km,  yAiA  on  bs  aciml  m  in  uttisr  mj. 

5«d  hft  ■  Fna  Seaple  Bottle 

TtePalliefcllK.Ce..  IPCUalea  Aw..  ¥wf«t»i«a.  H.  i. 


SALT  MACKEREL. 
CODFISH,  FRESH  LOBSTER 


FOR  YOUB  OWN  TABLE 


Famlllee 
from  aioiM 


~"We  Mil  mly  to  the  coi 
riitat  to  yor-  *■ 


DDd  of  flib  can  be  ■applied  dinct 
ue.,  br  the  Frank  S.  Davla  Fleh 
'It   caufbt    keepaU*   fHcan    flah 

-■  *— ' lid  poOTiblr  fnmhh. 

— ^STr_,^, 


We  prepay  east 


t<7    ESD 


Bait  Haokarel.  the  fat,  meatr.  inker  <Ub  an  dellciona  for 
breakfaat.  Tberara  freaUv  packed  In  brine  and  will  not 
■pollDDyiMii  hand*. 


sat  at  m 


hlon 


beat  thine  known  'v  aaiada.  Rl^t 
ireiD  iron  me  wnier,  ibeT  are  almplr  tioUed  and  packed  in 
pareliDiant  lined  eana.  ThCT  cone  to  ron  a*  tbe  pnreat 
andaafeatlobaterroacan  bur  and  the  mcatli  ai  cil>ii  and 
natural  aa  If  ron  took  It  from  theabell  rouraelf. 

Fried  olama  are  arellahable.  heartr  dilb  that  ronr  whale 
f  amllr  will  anlor.  No  other  Oavor  I*  iuat  lik*  dami,  whether 
fried  or  in  a  chowder. 

FrMh  Haekerel.  perfect  for  a  fried  Aata.  Bhlmp  ti 
cream  on  toaat.  CralimeBt  for  Newbnrf  and_  derliled 
SalnioD readr to aervr   *■-■■'---"'■ 


r  Ternlar  or  emeTvener  ni 

Ttaaendboo-  —  " 


bnrc   and     deViilei 
I]  kind),  Tonnj  U 

,  tood  thine  \-  -•-- 

i  keep  rtl^t  oi 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Domestic  Science 

Home-Study  Course* 
Food,    hcklth,    homekeeptDg,    clothiiw,    chlldrcik 
For  homenwkcn,  te«chen  and  for 
w«U-paid  poritioiK. 
"THE  PROPBSSION  OF  HOME-MAKING."  100 
■UQ  handbook,  FREB.     Bulletins:  "Fan  Haxd 
Oaanva,'   10  ceuti.     "Pimd    Vaiajm*,"   10  centa. 
"  Itea  Ui^to-DATB  HoKS,"  lA  c«nts. 

Ul.  SCHOOL  OF  HOME  ECOIOMICS,  503  W.  ttth  SUCNKM 


Perfect  Cooli 

with  LMit  TronUa  and  Exp 

The  diatnbcTB  Flrclo*  Cookinf 
Ranffeia  AnimproTcd  iviraajTe 
cambintd  with  aflnloa  cooker   . 
■Dd  doca  the  worit  of  both — ■ 
better   tbao    etther.      Retalm 
■MdneiB  and  flaoor.    Par*  for 
ftaelf  Id  better  food  and  tbe 
M  toal  OiiiBg. 


Buy  advertised  Gooda  —  do  not  accept  aubttitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


TOO  WOULDN'T  EVEK  THIMK  OF  DOfflC  WITHOUT 

THE  ROBERTS 
LIGHTNING    MIXER 


DORSET  MFG.  COMPANY 
78  Broad  Street  Botfon,  Maaa. 

Aganta  eoMltf  menay  MBing  it. 


^^  0(  course  DO   cook  could    nuke  aiirttain. 
lood  deBoerll     - -■  ■  ■ 


dELL-0 


Supbnry.  Lei 
iwlU 


. _JadlDBl«-ltmwlUMBd 

roa   the   aplcadla    rcclH    bttok,  "Six  r»»i>— 
Citita.-  lUvrtnlcd  la  bcaatUkl  eolcww. 
mcDinnnru  tomco  .  uiw.  w.t^  ai  ■rMnnn.  c— . 


AS  EVIDENCE  of  what  we  Haled  in  oui  pteviout 
adreitiiemait  in  thi*  Magazine,  thai  tbe 

SILVER-CLEAN  PAN 

it  BOW  a  necettity,  we  quote  from  an  aiticle  in  The 
Hoiuekeeper  Magazine,  March  1912  iMue,  oret  the 
ngnahire  of  Maigarel  Souocbttom,  Teachen  CoOege. 
Columbia  Univenity,  aa  followi: 

"The  talk  of  nlver  cleaning  need  not  appall  the 
hotaekeeper,  u  there  it.  for  inttance,  now  on  the  maikel 
B  SILVER-CLEAN  PAN  that,  at  itt  maker  layi. 
"  msket  tha  tarnith  vaniih  like  doudi  befote  the  morning 
nm."  In  luing  thb  all  that  one  hs>  lo  do  it  to  place  the 
PM.J.^ll.im^A...ll,»U  artidet  to  be  cleaned  (gold  of  ulvet)  m  the  pan  in  a 

lolutioo  of  waim  water,  baking  toda  and  ordinary  table  lalt.  leaving  them  there  from  one  lo  five 
minutet.  All  dM  it  then  requited  it  to  riaie  the  ttlvei  and  dry  it  with  a  clean  chamoit  tkin  or 
loft  cloth.  In  fact,  thit  pan  doei  away  with  all  the  dreaded  labor  of  cleaning  the  silver.  Elabo- 
rate nlver,  luch  aa  toilet  attidet.  may  be  deaned  in  the  laroe  way  with  no  effort  whattoever. 
Not  the  diktat  injury  b  done  the  nlver  and  il  will  have  a  luilet  like  new." 

It  leemt  uideit  for  ut  to  lay  mote,  at  undoubtedly  mott  of  the  tubtaiben  to  thb  magazine 
are  acquainted  widi  Margaret  Soundttrom't  witlingt  on  Domctlic  Science,  and  further  know  the 
would  not  recommend  it  before  making  a  thorough  tett  and  research  u  to  iti  meriti. 

On  damaiutratiaa  at  the  itore  of  Jordan  Manh  Co.,  House  Fumishinf  Departmant, 
Seoond  Floor,  Neir  Building,  Botton. 

THE  VANCE  SALES  CO,       44  ln<!ia  Street,      BOSTON,  MASS. 

Buy  advertbed  Goods  —  do  not  accept  subititutea 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


This  new  book  of  recipes 
by  Mrs.  Rorer  sent  h'ee. 


MclLHENNVS 

TABASCO 

SAUCE 


MRS.  SARAH  TYSON  RORER  has  just  pre- 
pared a  new  book  of  recipes,  hitherto  unpub- 
lished, in  which  will  be  found  directions  for  making 
many  unique  and  delectable  dishes,  and  other  infor- 
mation of  value  to  those  interested  in  good  cooking. 

7*his  new  book  of  Mrs.  Rorer's  will  be  sent 
free  to  anybody  anywhere  upon  request.  Just  send 
your  name  and  address  on  a  postcard  to  Depart- 
ment H-6,  Mcllhenny  Company,  Drexel  Building, 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Of  course  the  prime  purpose  of  this  new 
recipe  book  is  to  attract  more  favorable  attention 
to  our  Tabasco  Sauce,  and  to  promote  its  use  more 
widely  instead  of  dry  pepper  as  a  seasoning  for  all 
dishes  requiring  pepper. 

It  is  now  generally  admitted  among  cookery 
experts  that  pure,  unadulterated  liquid  Tabasco 
pepper  is  far  superior  to  cayenne  or  black  pepper 
because  of  intense  seasoning  power,  delicious 
flavor  and  wholesomeness. 

McIIhenny's  Tabasco  Sauce  is  the  original  and 
only  genuine  liquid  Tabasco  pepper,  and  is  being 
used  to  great  advantage  by  famous  chefs  and  good 
housekeepers  throughout  the  civilized  world. 

!t  is  more  wholesome  and  a  better  seasoning 
than  cayenne  or  black  pepper,  and  makes  a  most 
delightful  table  sauce. 

Order  a  bottle  from  your  grocer  today ;  and 
don't  forget  to  send  for  Mrs.  Rorer's  new  recipe 
book. 

McILHENNY  COMPANY,  Dept.   H-5 
Drexel  Building,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  eubctitutep 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


■lOVELTY 

Decoratioiu 

FwtktRiHin 

NfLll-M.  PwPmn 


BTATB      -       BOSTON       «j^"  t^o^  "- 
'  t4  SOMERBET  STREET        *Ulc«  nrrvCTs. 


Batter  bread  ancl  more  of  it — that 
b  a  good  modeni  ideaL 

Fleischmann's  Yeast 

help*  it  to  cmne  true.  It  maket  it 
ea^  to  make  good  bread.  Our  new 
Recqw  Bode  teUa  bow. 


The  Fleischmann  Company 

711  WuhlB|l(iB  SbMt  Raw  Tork  CU7 


ELECTRO 
SILICON 

Powder  introduced  1867 
>^Cream         "         103 


#«3gfHttxmfi  for  fflljriHtmaa  dtfta 


WOULD  not  many  of  youi  frienda  to  whom  you  will  malce  Chrisbnas  Gifts  be  toote  jAeaaeA 
with  ■  year'i  lubKription  to  THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 
than  with  aay  other  thing  of  equal  cott  you  could  lend  them  ? 
The  Magazine  wiDl  be  of  practical  ute  to  the  ledpient  365  ■Mfe^K^^^M^w^ttM 
dayi  m  the  year  and  a  couitant  and  pleatant  rembder  of  the  g^*^"^"i^"^W^"g 
donot.  S  ■-•.•-■--  m 

To  make  this  pft  more  complete,  we  will  tend  the  Decern-  M  _^ m 

ha  number  10  ai  to  be  received  the  day  before  Chiirtma^  ■  Th-  frrtnltwt-s-^rT\mtfii«  * 

together  allh  a  card  rtading  aa  per  cut  htteioUh :  M  r^"  -•-<•-  —  ——  —  *  K 

The  card  it  printed  in  two  ciJon  on  heavy  ttocic  and  m^  .'-~..  !'     "     "     "     "  m 


Peihap*  you  had  radker  prcMot  one  of  Mn.  HiQ'i  bookt, 
ot  a  book  and  a  yeai'a  lubiaiptioa  to  die  magazine. 
The  boob  will  be  lenl  POSTPAID  together  with  card. 
on  receipt  of  [»ice.  $1.50  each. 
"pTKlicalCiiokiiBudScrTiq"  ** The  Book  oi  EotrMi " 

-TlieUpJoJMiiW.k™i"  "CoofcnglorTwo" 

"Saladt,  Saodwiclia  (od  Owfing-dnti  Dunliai" 
IN    COMBINATION: 

Thf  MiflBiinn  for  oaejrcar  ud  may  on*  oi  tbo  booki  for  f  2.25;  nugume  and  two  boolu,  $3, SO;  a 

umI  (Ara«  booki  for  ^5.00/  OMpzinc  and /oarbooki,  f  9.00  ;  maguiDe  and  all /iiM  booki,  ^ 7. 1 

Scad  two  new  jomilj  MiltBoriplioiu  at  SI.OO  eaoh,  and  we  vrUl 

tion,  for  one  year  from  espiration,  freoi  ■• 


THE  BOSTON  COOKINOSCHOOL  MAGAZINE,  BOSTON,  MASS. 

Buy  advertised  Good*  —  do  not  accept  sutntitutea 


ONE  QUART 
.CAPE  COD- 

Cranberries 

EVAPORATED 
For   mliht   2-c*at 
stamp*     mBll«d 
•nywhar*    !■   Ih« 
llnll«d  States. 

By  our  new  procesi,  we  evaporate 
Cape  Cod  Cianberriei  (reah  fr<HD  the 
vines  so  they  letain  their  datunl  fniit 
flavor,  pack  diem  in  cealed  packages 
so  they  can  be  shinied  all  over  me 
world  and  used  all  tnrough  As  year. 


If  jaar  pocer  Soa't  keep  ihem  Mad  IM  Kb 
dame  aiidacldreii  with  S-2cail  Munptlora 
pkg.  equal  to  ona  qu>r1  fraali  cran- 
barriea  hj  mail   poatpaid  in  the  U.  5. 


SAWYER  CRYSTAL  BLUE  COMPANY 
Ssia  SilUnl  Ateali.  U  Inal  SL.  BMUa.  IIM>„  U.  S.  A. 


"CHoisa" 
Ceylon  Tea 


tib. 

Cinirim 
10  tall 

1-2  lb. 
Cuillcrt 
3SCeilt 


Pare 

Kich 

Frajranl 


Packed  in  Parchment-lined 

One  pound  and  half-pound  Canisters 

We  invite  eonvariion  tetth  other  Teat   of 
the  eame  or  higher  price 

S.  S.  PIERCE  CO. 

BOSTON       -       .       .       .       BKOOIILINE 


Why  Alt  for 

Stickney  &  Poor's 

Flavoring  Extracts? 


■ometimeH  enougl 

thmU 

make,  the  product  of  «  bottte 
Id  wblrh  fou  hava  ererT 
msoD  to  feel  implicit  coofi- 

To  lb.  ,_ 
tncta  the 

thnlhai  made  their  miulaida  and 
■ptc  t*  tbe  itapdard  (or  quality. 

Only  the  cbotceat  raw  material! 
are  oMd.  and  every  vIciiMnt  oT 
value  they  pOMeaa  li  retained  in 
hiihly  COD  centrBted  form. 
Sllcbier  a  PDor'a  Otki 
.__._.    ___      Muntart.Ff- 


Prodnc 


Pimento,  ^0(1.  Savory .  MarjonlD. 
Celery  Sail.  Cuiry  Powder,  ftp- 
lilia.  Tapioca,  Nntm«.  Caaala. 
AUapice.  Whole  Uiied  Spice.  Fa^ 
try  Sirica,  Tnnneric.  Tbyme, 
Soda.  Oeam  tf  TVtar.  Rice  Fknt. 
,  Potato  Flour.  Samaic  SeaaoDloc 
and  Poultry  Seaaonlnc. 

STICKNEY  &  POOR  SPICE  CO. 

184  Stkie  St.,  Boitoi 
THE  NATIONAL 
MUSTARD    FOX 


$f 


JLt 


^ose 


PIANOS  i 


raSB  A  lONl  PIAMO  CO..  ISO  ■ 


REMODELINCi  THE  CHRISTMAS  DINJNEK 


1 

c 


OF 


Far  More  Wholesome 

as  well  as  more  delicious  and  most  delicate  youll 
find  your  Cakes,  Cookies,  Gems  and  Biscuits  if 
they  are  raised  with  Rumford  Baking  Powder. 
More  wholesome,  because  this  powder  is  made  of 
the  most  wholesome  materials  known.      It  is 

More  Economical,  also, 

because  it  is  so  much  more  effective  in  making 
foods  light,  digestible — ^with  never  a  chance  of 
failure. 

Rumford  "5^^er 


I 


An  Entirely  New  Cook  Book  by  Miss  Farmer 

A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 

Aathor  of  "  The  Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book/'  Etc. 

fFitk  Eight  Ultrtd  PUtii  mnd  tmn  tUm   T%09  Hmnirti  Il.uttrstimit  h  HaJf-Trnf 

Cloth,  $1.60,  net.       By  mail,  $\JS 

Since  its  original  publication,  Miss  Farmer's  ''Boston  Cooking 
School  Cook  Book"  has,  in  new  editions,  incorporated  large  addi- 
tions, but  the  wealth  of  new  material — the  result  ot  experiments 
in  the  author's  class  rooms  and  embodied  in  recipes  which  have 
been  thoroughly  tested — has  grown  to  such  an  extent  that  it  has 
become  necessary  to  incorporate  it  in  a  separate  volume  which 
forms  an  almost  indispensable  companion  to  the  author's  invalu- 
able "Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book/' 

The  "  New  Book  of  Cookery"  contains  more  than  eight  hun- 
dred recipes  upon  all  branches,  including  manv  new  and  import- 
ant dishes  not  to  be  found  in  any  other  work.  It  is  profusely 
illustrated. 


LITTLE,  BROWN  &  CO.,  Publishers   -    BOSTON 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


FORTY  WINKS 

Paxniai  bf  Edward  V.  Brtwer  Itr  Crtmm  ef  Wkeal  Ct.  CefiyrigAI  2913  by  Cream  cf  Wheal  Ca. 


Buy  advertiaed  Goods  —  do  not  accept  ■ubatitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING- 
SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 

Vol.  XVni  DECEMBER,  1913  No.  5 


CONTENTS  FOR  DECEMBER 

PAOB 

MENUS  FOR  CHRISTMAS  EVE 845 

A  SMALL  NEW  ENGLAND  COUNTRY  HOME 

Charles  Vaughn  Boyd  847 

THE  FORGOTTEN Arthur  W.  Peach  852 

BEYOND  THE  SOUP Ladd  Plumley  863 

CHRISTMAS  BIRDS Lalia  Mitchell  867 

MOTHERING  OUR  GIRLS      .    .    .      Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson  858 

MILLICENT'S  CHRISTMAS  OFFERINGS     .    .     Alix  Thorn  861 

DREAMS R.  R.  Greenwood  868 

IN  ITS  OWN  COUNTRY Kate  Hudson  864 

A  CHEER  SONG Aldis  Dunbar  865 

A  WINTER  SINGER Stokely  S.  Fisher  866 

EDITORIALS 866 

SEASONABLE   RECIPES  (Illustrated  with  half-tone  engravings 

of  prepared  dishes) Janet  M.  Hill  869 

MENUS,  BALANCED,  FOR  ONE  WEEK  IN  DECEMBER 

Janet  M.  Hill  877 

MENUS  FOR  CHRISTMAS  DINNERS „      „  878 

REMODELING  THE  CONVENTIONAL  CHRISTMAS 

DINNER       Jessamine  Chapman  Williams  879 

HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 888 

QUERIES  AND  ANSWERS 887 

NEW  BOOKS ~ •    .  894 

MISCELLANEOUS 897 


$1.00  A  YEAR  Pabllahed  Ten  Timea  ■  Year  lOc  A  COPY 

Poor  Yeara,'   Sobacrlption,  $3.00 

Eatar«d  at  Boaton  paa(-offlca  m»  aacoad*claaa  mattar.    Copyrttfhl.  1913.  by 

THE     BOSTON     GOOSING     SCHOOL     MAGAZINE     COMPANY 

372  BOYLSTON    STREET  BOSTON.  MASSACHUSETTS 

Please  Renew  on  Receipt  of  the  Colored  Blank  Enclosed  for  that  Purpose 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


■Whatever  you  cook  will  be  better  if  you  use 

Cottolene 

Have  you  TRIED  Cottolene  for  doughnuts,  for  fried  oysters, 
potatoes,  fish,  croquettes,  tarts,  pies,  meat  pastry,  cookies,  cakes? 

The  whole  trend  of  modem  thought  fevors   Cottolene  for  all 
cooking. 

Many,   formerly  troubled  with  indigestion,  now  use  Cottolene 
and  enjoy  their  food. 

The  economical  housewife  saves 
money  with  Cottolene — it  goes 
much  ferther  than  butter  or  lard 
and  costs  less. 

bi»q>erienced  cocdcs  have  few 
foilures  when  cooking  with  Cot- 
tolene and  experienced  cocto  are 
delighted  with  it 

Send  for  FREE  Cook  Boc^ 
"HOME  HELPS"  also  order  a 
pail  of  Cottolene  from  your  grocer. 

You  win  be  heartily  glad  of  the 
day  you  b^;an  using  Cottolene 
fbradl  cookii^. 


miDDAMK 


Buy  advertised  GocxIb  —  do  not  accept  subEtitutei 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


BIO  OAK  FARM 
FfHid   Specialties   of    Quality 

HADE  IN  THE  Oi 
FASHIONED,  COV 

iDteretted  r  Then  write  for  K  IltUe  folderi  Del«c- 
Ublea  for  Elect-tabl«a.  It  telli  mboot  these  producti 
and  how  jou  may  be  nq>pUed  If  youi  dealer  doea 
Dot  hare  them. 

Bl|t  Oak  Farm,  Downlnitown,  Pa. 


I  ESSONS  IN  COOKING 


.-fa?»±-!tE^sii!:i; 


'-oESi 


wuu 

ProtecU  elotlilDC  fun  ItDilb.  Prie«TS< 

LA  VELTIWA  CO..  P«p<.  1.  Bw  JM.  Yonfci 


RUBBERIZED  APRON ; 


SALAD  DRESSING 

links  liixtny  with  economy,    ft 
does  not  follow  because  Yacht 

Ciub  Salad  Dreuins  enjoya 
■uch  hish  favor  amonc  epi- 
curea  of  refined  larta  thai  U 


On  tha  contrirr.  Ih*  prodant 
houHwIla  conildan  It  a  tabU 
&a»Hltr  bacaua*  of  tba  bun- 
dnda  ol  dainty  and  dallsloiu 
dlihaa  that  can  ba  conlrlvad 
wllb  It  at  llttla  COM. 
Wrif  A>r  FrM  Aaejpa  BoaA 


ViriTT'*^ 


INDEX  FOR  DECEMBER 

A  Cheer  Song 365 

A  SnuU  New  England  Country  Home,  IlL.  347 

Beyond  the  Soup 553 

Christmu  Birds ^' 

Dreams 3*5 

Editorials 366 

Home  Ideas  and  Economies       ....  383 

In  Its  Own  Country         364 

Menus 345,  377,  378 

MilUcent's  Christmas  Offerings       ...  361 

Mothering  Our  Giris 3S8 

Remodeling  the  Christmas  Dinner  ...  379 

New  Books 3M 

Seasonable  Rbcipbs: 

Cake,  Graham  Cracker,  III 376 

Cake,  Fruit  and  Nut,  III 376 

Cakes,  Little  Pound,  IIL 376 

Cakes,  Small  Graham  Cracker,  III.   .      .  376 

Cabbie.  Stuffed,  111 372 

Carrots,  Creamed 373 

CodliBh,  Creamed  Roulette     ....  371 

Croquettes,  Finnan  Haddie    ....  371 

Cutlets,  Salmon 372 

Ham  Baked  with  Cider 370 

.    Oysters,  Broiled 371 

Cb'sters,  Roulette  Style 370 

Res,  Little  Pumpkin,  111 374 

Pork,  Spareribs  of,  with  Onions,  111.  372 

Pudding,  Froien,  Bombe  Style    .  374 

Salad,  Chiistmas 373 

Salad,  Lettuce,  Date-and-Pecan  Nut,  IIL  373 

Salambo,    111 375 

Sardines  a  la  Tartare 36» 

Soup,  Cauliflower 3W 

Soup,  Inexpensive  Vegetable  ....  370 

Soup,  Swedish 369 

Syllabub,  Grape  Juice  or  Raspberry,  111..  375 

,     Wafers,  Poinsettia,  111 376 

QuBRiKs  AND  Answers: 

Bread,  Salt-Rising 390 

Crullers,  Orange 388 

Gingerbread,  New  York 388 

Muffins,  Commeal 390 

Noodles,  Italian 390 

Pickles,  Dill 388 

Roast,  Pot  with  Currants      ...  390 

Rosemary  and  Kale  in  Cooking  ...  392 

Spaghetti,  Italian 388 

llmbates,  Salmon  (Cooked  Fish)      .     .  392 

Timbales.  Salmon  (Raw  Fish)     ...  392 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


y  advcrtiaed  Goodi  —  do  not  accept  MibrtitutM 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL-MAGAZINB 


HAVE  YOU  READ 

The 
Confession* 

of  a 

Debutante 

? 

The  cbTODtdei  of  an  Amer* 
lean  glA't  "  comliw  out"  wid 
of  her  lore  kffalra  deli^tfallf 
ftod  fnuiklj  told. 


Br  R.  Bl  CROSBY 
f  1.00  net.       B;^  nwil  $1.11. 

The  Story  of 

WaitstiU 

Baxter 

Br 
KATE  DOUGLAS  WIGGIN 

"C*iinotfail  toproTo  mde- 
igfat  of  delists  to  Rebeoa 
if  SiuiarbrDok  Fftim  enthn- 


The 
Spare  Room 

Br 
MRS.   ROMILLY   FEODEN 

"Bubbling  over  with  laugh- 
«T  .  ,  .  distlDCtly  a  boHik 
o  read  and  chuckle  orei." — 
Yorkshire  Obserrer. 
lUurtrated.  SI.OO  net  By 
mall  $1.09. 


LATEST   BOOKS  FOR   WOMEN 


Hageur 

Br  MARY  JOHNSTON,  Author  ol  "To  Have  and  To  HaU~ 

A  glowing  aiKumcot  for  the  emandpation  of  women,  a  rtirting 
human  drama,  a  ^aoe  of  noble  literature — In  each  of  Ita  three  as- 
pect! "  Hagar  "  marks  an  epoch  in  Hiss  Johnston's  career  as  a 
thinker  and  a  writer.    (l.Unet.    BrmaiLtl.54. 

A  Confederate  Girl's  Diary 

Br  SARAH  MORGAN  DAWSON 

"  A  Itvinc  rolce  from  the  put  of  thedvil  war  comes  to  us  from 
the  pages  of  "A  Confediate  Girl's  Diary.'  .  .  .  It  Is  fasdnaUnglr 
interertlDg,  a  rolnme  of  real  life.  ...  A  rerr  human  document, 
and  one  remaikablr  mature  and  just,  to  have  oeen  written  hf  so 

Ioung  a  girl  In  Umee  so  trying.'  — Chicafo  tribune.     lUustrated. 
>.00net    By  mall  $3. 1». 

The  Housdceeper's  Handy-Book 

Br  LUaA  MLLET  BAXTER 

"Packed  with  the  treasured  lore  of  generaUoni  of  accnnpllshed 
housewlrea,  and  coren  the  entire  range  of  domertlc  knowledge. 
The  Talnable  inggestions  are  bonnd  with  fine  ■implidty 
and  lllnstrated  with  pictures  that  are  an  IndteaMot  to  artistic  honse- 
fnmiihing  In  themaelTei." — Hilwaukea  Free  Press.  Ulnftiatcd. 
$1.00  net.    By  mall  «I.ll. 

Our  Common  Road 

By  AGNES  EDWARDS 
Sane,  cheeiftd  and  stimulating  essays   *»^"g  up  the  simple 
ereuta  and  predicaments  of  everyday  life,  making  practieal  aoggeat 
tlooe  as  to  the  happleat  way  to  meet  the  daily  round.    tl.OO  net. 
BymaUfl.lO. 

The  Health  Master 

Br  SAMUEL  HOPKINS  ADAMS 


It  (et  sick  ud  than  tiTlnc  id 


Calm  Yourself 


Br  GEORGE  L.  WALTfM 

"Sach  ■  wise  little  book  as  this  ovcbt  to  bs  taken  to  heart,  tikiiiily,  by 
ttie  American  peapie."— Portluid  Oietonlan. 

"  Prescbe*  the  grispel  oTcommon  scnee  and  wise  inedkal  •ipertenee."— 
San  FmndKo  Chronicle.    M  cents  net.    Br  maUM  cents. 

The  Significance  of  Art 

Br  dXANOR  ROWLAND 

n*r  "atndles  in  anslrUcal  Ksthclicx,"  brilKantlr  writtra.  clear  and 
enlneotlrieadabIe.br  tha  author  of  "The  Uifat  to  BeUere."  Si.ssnet.  By 
mallll.OS. 

Auction  Developments 

Br  MILTON  C.  WORK 

The  latest  word  on  Auctioa  bf  the  bichest  authmltr.  tl-H  net.  Br  mall 
ll.«4. 

Story-Telling  Poems 

Edited  br  FRANCES  J&nUNS  OLCOTT 

Id  this  >sry  thoronch  piece  of  work  Ulsa  Olcott  tlBS  Dot  onir  (mthered  the 
old  ravofltes  bat  ■  Dumber  of  poems  equallrwaithralthouch  not  so  well  kODim. 
ll.Unct    Brmallti.H. 

The  Greatest  Books  in  the  World 

Br  LAURA  SPENCER  PORTOR 

This  compreheoske  litlle  bmlc  will  be  or  gieit  isloe  both  to  stodents  and 
to  tboee  who,  without  time  rorcihsustivereadmrretirish  to  become  familiar 
with  theresllr  imcHjitantmsiter  warlfsariitrratute.    tl.U  net.    Brmailtl.». 
Send  for  our  FREE  Illustrated  HoUday  Bulletin 

HOUGHTON    MIFFUN  CO.,  4  Park  Sl.  Borton 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  subatitutca 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


tfrat 

ttot 
tnst 

Utah 


xtapwnt 


I  want  to  say  to  you 

that  the  woman  receiving  a  copy  of 
Mrs.  Rorer's  New  Cook  Book  for  a 
Christmas  gift  is  getting  something 
worth  while,  and  something  she  will 
appreciate  365  days  in  the  year. 

It  is  packed  full  of  goodness.  Well  illustrated,  with 
hundreds  of  choice  recipes  covering  completely  all  de- 
partments of  cookery.  It  is  the  one  gift  for  mother,  sister, 
sweetheart  or  friend  that  will  be  sure  of  a  welcome. 

If  you  desire  we  will  mail  it  in  an  appropriate  man. 
ner  for  you  to  any  address,  enclosing  your  personal  card. 

It  is  bound  in  cloth^  price  $2.00 ;  by  nuifl  $2.20. 

Then  there's  Mrs.  Rorer's  latest  book 

Ice  Creams,  Water  Ices, 
Frozen  Puddings 

Together  with 

Refreshments  for  all  Social  Affairs 

A  good  book  to  have  for  the  many  delicacies  and 
toothsome  dainties  it  contains.  Think  of  the  numerous 
occasions  when  you  want  some  tasty  finish  to  your  meal, 
or  when  you  entertain. 

Bound  m  doth,  75  cents;  by  mail,  80  cents. 

Philadelphia  Cook  Book 

A  splendid  gift.  The  standby  of  many  housewives. 
Over  150,000  have  been  sold,  and  the  demand  still  holds 
on.    Why  ?    The  secret  is  in  the  book. 

Bound  in  cloth,  $1.00;  by  mail,  $1.15. 

Of  all  bookstores  and  department  stores^  or  of  us, 
ARNOLD  &  COMPANY,  420  Sansom  St.,  Phila. 
Send  for  Catalogue  of  other  books  by  Mrs.  Rorer. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

343 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING^CHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Buy  «dv«tiMd  Goodi  —  do  not  accept  ■ubititutci 


Menus  for  Christmas  Eve 

BUFFET  SUPPER 
I. 

Clam  Broth,  with  Whipped  Cream 

Chicken  Croquettes,  with  P^s 

Hot  Baked  Ham,  Tomato  Satice 

Celery-and- Apple  Salad 

Lobster  Salad  Assorted  Sandwiches 

Christmas  Cakes 

Raspberry  Syllabub 

Coffee 

Bonbons 

H. 

Chicken  Broth 
Lobster  Cutlets,  Sauce  Tartare 
Ramekins  of  Ham  and  Chicken 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Graham  Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Poinsettia  Cakes 
Chocolate  or^Cocoa,  Whipped  Creanv 

^  ^   ^ 

HIGH  TEA 
L 

Creamed  Oysters  in  Chafing  Dish 
Cold  Roast  Chicken,  Sliced  Thin 
Lady  Finger  Rolls 
Celery  Hearts  Salted  Pecan  Meats 

Small  Graham  Cracker  Cakes 
Cocoa,  with  Marshmallows 
Bonbons 

H. 

r 

Tomato  Bouillon  ^ .  '    Cold  Baked  Ham 

Mayonnaise  of  Celery  and  White  Grapes 

Hot  Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Little' Christmas  Cakes 

Pineapple  Sherbet 

Tea 


The 
Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


DECEMBER,  1913 


No.  5 


A  Small  New  Elngland  Country  Home 

By   Charles  Vaughn    Boyd 
Associated  architects,  James  G.  Kelley  and  Harold  S.  Graves,  Boston,  Mass. 

WHILE  the  illustration  and  dis-  panoramic   view   of   fertile   valley   and 

cussion  of  our  larger  country  distant  hill, 

homes  may  be  profitable  in  Attractive   as   the    site   undoubtedly 

disseminating  valuable  architectural  sug-  is,    its   unusual   character   might   have 

gestions,  the  portrayal  of  small  houses  been  just  the  stumbling  block  for  an 

is  far  more  important,   particxilarly  if  unskilled  architect.     However,  without 

the   designs    selected   for   reproduction  destroying  any  of  Nature's  handiwork 

be   the   work   of   architects   who   have  in  a  vain  effort  to  reconstruct  the   site 

given   due   consideration   to   the   small  to  suit  a  given  type  of  house,  the  archi- 


house  problem.  Fortunately,  the  meri- 
torious small  house  is  now  not  difficult 
to  find.  Indeed,  anyone  who  has  faith- 
fully compared  the  average  small  house 
of  to-day  with  its  predecessor  of,  let 
us  say,  twenty  years  ago,  must  have 
discerned  the  marked  improvement  in 
American  domestic  architecture.  This 
gratifying  evidence  of  progress  is,  of 
course,  but  the  outward  index  to  a  more 
highly  cultivated  taste  on  the  house 
builders'  part  and  to  a  greater  desire 
for  simpUcity  on  the  part  of  the  archi- 
tects. A  striking  instance  of  this  up- 
ward trend  of  architecture  is  found  in 
the  little  home,  which  Mr.  Philip  R. 
Spaulding  has  recently  erected  near 
Weston,  Massachusetts. 

The  situation  is  ideal,  for  the  house 
nestles  in  the  midst  of  a  miniature 
forest,  half  way  up  a  great  rugged  hill; 
and  from  this  vantage  point  the  owners 
of  the  house  have  an  ever  delightful 


tects  associated  in  the  work  gradually 
evolved  a  small  house,  which  in  design 
is  so  admirably  adapted  to  its  situation 
that  it  appears  almost  indigenous  —  a 


ENTRANCE   HALL 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


FRONT  VIEW 


house,  furthermore,  whose  interior  ar- 
rangement also  eloquently  points  to 
the  architects'  conscientious  study. 

As  one  instinctively  expects  in  New 
England,  the  Spaulding  house  is  of 
frame  construction;  but  the  conven- 
tional painted-clapboard  or  stained- 
shingle  exterior  has  here  given  away 
to  wide  cypress  siding,  stained  a  deep, 
warm  brown,  the  exterior  trim  being 
painted  a  soft  olive  green.  The  choice 
of  brown  and  green  —  two  colors  that 
are  so  closely  identified  with  Nature's 
palette  —  has,  of  course,  still  further 
linked  the  house  with  its  beautiful 
setting. 

Although  the  contour  of  the  site 
necessitated  one  end  of  the  basement 
being  practically  above  grade,  the  low, 
broad  lines  of  the  house  have  been 
maintained  through  an  interesting  dis- 
posal of  green- painted  trellises  over 
the  lower  exterior  wall  surfaces.     The 


apparent  height  of  the  house  has  also 
been  decreased  by  the  long,  sweeping 
line  of  the  main  roof,  which  is  carried 
out  over  the  porch,  thus  making  the 
latter  an  integral  factor  in  the  general 
design. 

Had  conventionality  been  permitted 
to  govern  the  planning  of  the  house, 
a  hall  would  no  doubt  have  monopolized 
a  portion  of  the  front  elevation,  thus 
curtailing  the  outlook  from  the  living 
room.  Instead,  however,  the  entrance 
hall  has  been  placed  on  that  side  of  the 
house  most  remote  from  the  highway  — 
a  wide  driveway  winding  up  the  hill- 
side to  the  living  porch,  from  which 
the  main  door  opens  directly  into  the 
hall.  The  porch,  although  it  is  partially 
sheltered  by  one  side  of  the  staircase 
wing,  extends  beyond  the  house  line 
sufficiently  to  derive  the  benefit  of 
both  the  wide  outlooks  and  any  wan- 
dering summer  breeze. 


A  SMALL  NEW  ENGLAND  COUNTRY  HOME 


349 


The  entrance  hall  is  comparatively 
restricted  in  area,  but  its  exceptionally 
convenient  arrangement  is  an  adequate 
compensation.  The  only  staircase  to 
the  second  floor  rises  from  the  entrance 
hall  by  easy  stages.  In  a  nook,  created 
by  a  turn  in  the  staircase,  there  is 
a  telephone  stand,  which  is  well  lighted 
by  the  large  triple  window  on  the 
stair  landing  —  and  should  not  those 
words  well-lighted  be  underlined,  when 
one  recalls  the  dark  inaccessible  cor- 
ners usually  reserved  for  telephones, 
even  in  large  houses?  Opposite  the 
main  entrance,  a  door  leads  to  a  small 
vestibule,  which  serves  in  a  triple  capa- 
city —  as  a  rear  entry,  as  a  landing 
for  the  basement  stairs  and  as  a  passage 
to  the  kitchen.  A  large  coat-closet 
is  another  good  feature  connected  with 
the  hall,  as  it  makes  the  presence  of 
a  hall-stand,  which  is  almost  inevitably 
unsightly,  unnecessary 

The  coloring  of  the  hall  is  exception- 


ally pleasing,  especially  as  it  blends 
effectively  with  the  color  scheme  of 
the  living  room  adjoining.  A  gray 
and  ecru  foliage  paper  is  used  for  a 
wall  covering;  soft  ecru  hangings  at 
the  windows,  wood -brown  rugs,  and 
dull,waxed,  chestnut  woodwork  complet- 
ing a  treatment  both  decorative  and 
restful. 

The  living  room  is  at  the  right  of 
the  entrance.  Theoretically,  at  least, 
a  living  room  is  an  apartment  to  live 
in.  Many  so-called  living  rooins,  how- 
ever, fall  far  short  of  what  should  be 
their  chief  qualification,  sometimes  on 
account  of  ill-assorted  furniture,  not 
infrqeuently  through  over-omamenta- 
tion,  more  often,  perhaps,  because  of 
an  inharmonious  or  disquieting  color 
scheme.  The  living  room  of  the  Spauld- 
ing  house  is,  on  the  contrary,  perfectly 
adapted  to  its  requirements.  It  is 
quiet  in  color,  consistantly  good  in 
architectural    detail,    generous   in    pro- 


BACK  VIEW 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


DINING  AND  LIVING  BOOM 


portions  and  particularly  well  situated, 
as  from  its  windows  the  occupants 
may  enjoy  uninterrupted  views  over 
the  surrounding  countryside- 
Valuable  space  is  often  lost  in  small 
houses  by  the  subdivision  of  the  avail- 
able floor  area  into  a  really  superfluous 
number  of  rooms.  In  the  Spaulding 
house,  there  is  no  separate  dining-room; 
one  end  of  the  living  room,  instead, 
being  provided  with  an  antique  mahog- 
any iHning  table.  The  table  chosen 
for  this  service  is  of  such  a  character 
that,  at  other  than  meal  hours,  it 
forms  an  entirely  satisfactory  reading 
table.  One  disadvantage  of  utilizing 
a  living  room  for  the  serving  of  meals 
lies  in  the  inavoidable  presence  of  a 
sideboard  which,  unlike  a  table,  can- 
not be  put  to  dual  use.  Here,  however, 
into  one  wall  has  been  built  a  side- 
board, which  neither  absorbs  useful 
floor  area  nor  robs  the  room  of  its  liv- 
ing room  aspect.  Thus,  instead  of 
two  small  separate  rooms,  neither  of 
which   would   be  adequate   in   size   for 


real  comfort,  we  find  one  room,  which, 
through  its  well-proportioned  dimen- 
sions, creates  a  sense  of  spaciousness 
little  to  be  expected  from  a  glance 
at  the  exterior  of  the  house. 

The  beamed-ceiling  eflTect  of  the  liv- 
ing room  was  obtained  by  an  unusual 
yet  economical  method.  Instead  of 
being  concealed,  the  joists  of  the  sec- 
ond floor  were  left  exposed,  the  inter- 
vening spaces  being  covered  with  beaver 
board,  painted  ivory  white.  The  joists 
are  stained  brown,  a  rich  brown,  which 
corresponds  with  the  finish  of  the 
stained -and- waxed  chestnut  trim  in 
the  living  room. 

Brown  is  indeed  the  keynote  of  the 
living  room  color  scheme.  The  walls 
are  hung  with  a  self-figured,  golden 
brown  paper;  and  the  same  beautiful 
shade  of  brown  predominates  in  the 
coloring  of  the  rugs  and  chair-coverings. 
The  window  hangings  are  of  deep  ecru. 

In  the  furnishing  of  the  room,  wicker, 
fumed  oak  and  mahogany  have  been 
permitted    to   intermingle.     The   result 


A  SMALL  NEW  ENGLAND  COUNTRY  HOME 


351 


is  good,  however,  as,  while  the  brown 
color  scheme  has  been  maintained, 
the  pieces  of  old  mahogany,  introduced 
into  the  room,  have  prevented  any 
monotony  of  effect. 

A  small  serving  pantry  connects  the 
dining  end  of  the  living  room  with 
the  kitchen.  The  latter  is  an  especially 
well-arranged  room.  Its  somewhat  un- 
usual shape,  which  was  the  outcome 
of  a  desire  for  cross-ventilation,  has 
created  near  the  pantry  an  alcove, 
which  provides  an  advantageous  posi- 
tion for  the  sink,  with  an  abundance 
of  light.  Above  the  sink,  small  sliding 
doors  permit  the  freshly-washed  dishes 
to  be  placed  in  the  pantry-shelves; 
and  in  this  way  many  steps  are  saved 
for  the  maid.  The  range  is  so  situated 
that  a  single  chimney  does  duty  for 
the  entire  house;  and,  near  the  range, 
there  is  a  commodious  cook's  closet. 
In  order  that  it  may  be  readily  replen- 
ished, the  ice-chest  is  placed  in  an  alcove 
conveniently  near  the  rear  entry;  and 
in  the  basement,  a  well-equipped  laun- 
dry is  situated. 

The  second  floor,  which  is  very 
compact  in  plan,  contains  several  fea- 
tures, interesting,  because  the  owner's 
intention  originally  was  to  utilize  the 


third  floor  exclusively  for  storage  space. 
As  an  example,  beside  the  chimney 
there  is  a  small  closet,  in  which  is 
located  a  ladder-like  stairway  lead- 
ing to  a  large  trunk  room.  To  faciH- 
tate  the  raising  and  lowering  of  the 
trunks,  there  is  in  the  ceiling  of  the 
hall  a  hatch  equipped  with  block- 
and-tackle.  After  the  building  of  the 
house  had  commenced,  it  was  decided 
to  have  a  maid's  room  in  the  third 
floor;  consequently  a  regulation  stair- 
case was  provided.  The  original  idea 
of  ladder-stairs  and  block-and-tackle 
was  not  abandoned,  however;  and  pro- 
spective house  builders  may  in  the 
latter,  at  least,  find  a  hint  worthy  of 
note. 

In  the  owner's  bedroom,  which  is 
the  largest,  on  the  second  floor,  there 
is  also  a  good  suggestion  for  utilizing 
otherwise  wasted  space;  as,  under  each 
dormer  window,  several  drawers  have 
been  built  in  —  an  arrangement  which 
might  be  advantageously  employed  in 
many  houses.  There  is  a  smaller  room, 
now  used  as  a  den,  immediately  behind 
the  owner's  room;  the  bathroom  being 
directly  across  the  hall.  A  pleasant 
guest  room  and  several  closets  occupy 
the  balance  of  the  second  floor.  The 
chestnut  trim  of  the  lower  floor  has 


.  fv^ 


FIRST  FLOOR  PLAN 


SECOND  FLOOR  PLAN 


325  THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 

been    continued    in    the    upper    hall,  there  is  a  marked  lack  of  pretentous- 

but    in    the    sleeping    rooms    and    the  ness.     Undoubtedly,   that    is    the    real 

bathroom,  the    woodwork  is  enameled  secret    of    that   indefinable   charm  ~-  a 

ivory  white.  charm  intensified  by  harmonious  color- 
One  of  the  most  frequent  causes  of  ing  and  simple  composition  —  which 
failure  in  designing  small  houses  is  is  so  apparent  both  within  and  with- 
the  striving  after  effects  incompatible  out  this  little  country  home  on  a  Massa- 
with    true    simplicity.     Here,    instead,  chusetts  hillside. 


The  Forgotten 

Can  you  remember  Some  (riendshtpe  olden, 

In  December  Love  hour  golden  — 

How  Bweet  the  roses  were  in  June,  These  she  holds,  but  others  die; 

Or,  in  recallioK,  And  when  we  wonder, 

Hear,  enthralling,  'Tie  to  ponder 

As  of  old  some  long  loved  tune?  Why  others  laved  must  pass  us  b; 

Time  takes  forever  Such  is  the  measure 

And  gives  back  never  Of  time's  pleasure, 

From  vales  of  wlence  in  the  past;  To  take,  and  why  we  never  know 

Vain  is  our  seeking 
Or  bespeaking  — ■ 
Too  tar  the  Land  of  Long  Ago! 


Arthur  W.  Peach. 


Beyond  the  Soup 

By  Ladd  Plumley 


IF  Polhemus  had  been  the  heroine 
of  the  modem  heart-thtob,  he 
wotild  have  thrown  himself  on  the 
omnipresent  sofa  and  burst  into  wild 
sobs.  In  fiction  of  an  earlier  time  he 
wotild  have  sworn  a  mighty  oath  and 
ordered  his  minions  to  saddle  his  pal- 
fry  that  he  might  away  to  the  wars. 
Polhemus  did  neither  of  these  things. 
He  said  a  strong  word,  grabbed  his 
pipe,  and  took  the  elevator  to  a  studio 
on  the  top  floor. 

"What's  up?"  asked  the  painter 
turning  from  his  easel. 

"Nothing,  according  to  your  Crusoe 
ideas." 

"I  can  guess.  The  inevitable  has 
gripped  your  innards.  The  fair  one 
has  flipped  the  mitten." 

"That's  what  you  call  humor,"  re- 
marked Polhemus,  crunching  tinpleas- 
antly  on  the  stem  of  his  pipe,  and 
throwing  himself  into  a  chair. 

"Beg  pardon,  old  fellow.  I  really 
want  to  liven  you  up.  You  look  like 
the  last  of  the  Sadducees.  Let's  have 
it!" 

"She's  right;  April  is  always  right. 
Everybody  says  it.  You  yourself  have 
said  it  a  thousand  times.  Saying  it 
don't  make  it  'any  easier  to  understand. 
That's  the  dingle-dangle  trouble !  •  The 
fact  that  I  can't  imderstand  proves 
that  you're  right." 

"What    does    she    say  —  this    April 

girl?" 

"She  says  that  I'm  impracticable  — 
that  it's  a  roistake  —  that  —  well  — 
that  we  must  part." 

"So  you  are  —  the  most  impracticable 
human  that  ever  used  manicure  scissors 
for  sardine  cans.  It's  likely  hereditary. 
Maybe  your  grand-ancestor  was  an 
alchemist." 

"Ever  since  we've  been  engaged  it 


•has  shadowed  everything.  She's  tak- 
ing a  course  of  cooking,  niu-sing,  and 
the  rest;  that  has  made  it  worse." 

"Miss  April  will  never  have  to  cook. 
And  it's  fortunate  that  your  impractic- 
ability need  not  worry  you.  Clipping 
coupons  isn't  difficult." 

"Well,  it's  off,  I  just  received  the 
note  of  final  dismissal.  It's  hopeless; 
a  fellow  can't  change  the  length  of 
his  nose." 

"It  isn't  hopeless.  There's  that  slosh- 
er  of  rainbows  whose  daddy  dropped 
him  slathers  of  dough.  He  moved 
up  to  Fifty-Ninth  Street  and  swapped 
delicatessen  eats  for  lobster  and  sizzle  — 
took  a  studio  like  a  comer  of  the  Grand 
Central  terminal.  Say,  all  he  swabbed 
were  Waldorf  salad  frescoes.  The  boo- 
dle slipped  into  a  Honduras  mine, 
and  when  he  painted  the  sweet  thing 
you've  seen  in  every  shop  window  he'd 
sloped  back  to  forty  cent  table  d'hote. 
It  takes  the  punch  inside  to  push  the 
goods  out." 

"I've  got  the  pimch,  but  how  can 
an  impracticable  fellow  prove  that 
he  isn't?" 

"That  tomato  squasher  learned  to 
paint." 

"He  had  a  line;  I  haven't  anything." 

"You  might  hitch  your  necktie  so 
it  wouldn't  be  a  purple  cruller  sprinkled 
with  mustard  —  Lord,  what  taste !  And 
that  cruller  gives  an  idea.  This  April 
girl  —  I  dote  on  the  name  —  she's 
deep  in  domestic  doings.  Why  shouldn't 
you  take  her  cue?  You  couldn't  ever 
make  a  bed  decently  —  you've  got 
yovu"  limitations;  but  you  would  learn 
to  cook." 

"Why  don't  you  suggest  loading 
fireworks?  That  would  only  kill  me; 
my  cooking  would  kill  the  other  fellow." 

"You'U  have  to  dig  in  and  get  in- 


35S 


3S4 


THE  IBOSTON  COOKING^CHOOL  MAGAZINE 


struction." 

'•What  would  be  the  good?'* 

"If  you  learned  to  cook  a  dinner 
from  soup  to  coffee,  nobody,  not  even 
the  April  girl  —  What  eyes  she's  got! 
but  even  she  couldn't  call  you  im- 
practicable." 

"But  she  and  you  and  all  the  rest 
say  Tm  impracticable;  therefore  there's 
no  use  trying  to  learn  to  cook,  because, 
if  I  learned.  I  wouldn't  be  impracticable, 
and  that's  just  what  I  am." 

"That's  the  trouble  with  you.  If 
you  could  chuck  the  thinking  you  might 
get  somewhere." 

"There's  no  place  where  they  teach 
cooking." 

"Where  do  chefs  come  from?  They 
aren't  bom  holding  a  skillet  and  with 
white  caps." 

"Even  if  I  could  get  lessons,  how 
would  I  have  a  chance  to  show  off?" 

"The  first  thing  is  to  learn." 

"Where  is  this  hash  kindergarten?" 

"How  should  I  know?  I'm  a  painter 
—  I  only  eat." 

"What  do  you  think  of  advertising?" 

"Shades  of  Napoleon!  That's  the 
first  practical  bunch  I've  ever  heard 
you  sling.  The  thought  of  cooking 
has  improved  you.  Yes,  advertise. 
There  must  be  a  place  where  the  cub 
cook  is  whanged  into  the  red-nosed  chef." 

The  ptmch  was  April,  and  any  one 
who  has  ever  looked  into  the  sapphire 
eyes  of  that  young  lady  will  concede 
the  punch  had  power.  And  with  the 
punch,  and  notwithstanding  the  im- 
practicability. Polhemus  accomplished 
miracles. 

All  that  winter  and  far  into  the  spring 
the  student  labored.  From  the  an- 
chovy state  he  took  so  much  delight 
in  what  is  the  most  wonderful  of  arts 
that,  at  times  he  actually  forgot  the 
punch. 

Those  who  have  made  the  journey 
through  a  magnificent  soup,  a  peculiar 
fish,  a  weird  entr6e,  a  watery  roast, 
in  a  low-ceilinged  house  in  Second  Avenue, 
may  remember  that  all  terrors  of  the 


trip  were  mitigated  by  remembrances 
of  the  soup.  And  it  was  in  the  base- 
ment of  this  establishment  that  Pol- 
hemus apprenticed  himself  to  a  master- 
craftsman,  who  boasted  that  in  his 
own  novitiate  he  handed  skillets  to 
the  chef  of  the  cazr  of  all  the  Russians. 

From  the  beginning  Polhemus  recog- 
nized that  his  master  was  a  supreme 
artist  in  only  one  thing  —  in  soups. 
Give  him  some  scrawny  ox-tail,  three 
leaves  of  withered  cabbage,  and  one 
ancient  carrot,  and  a  box  of  spices, 
and  he  could  bedevil  a  semi-fluid  that 
would  make  an  epicure  lift  his  eye-brows 
and  smack  his  lips. 

"When  I  have  mastered  his  soups," 
Polhemus  said  to  himself,  "I  must 
find  another  instructor." 

During  the  first  month  it  cost  the 
student,  aside  from  a  heavy  retainer 
for  the  chef,  a  good  many  dollars 
for  materials  btimed  on  a  brazier  as 
sacrifices  to  .Miss  April's  eyes.  But 
before  the  end  of  six  months  the  French- 
man entrusted  his  pupil  on  three  occa- 
sions with  making  the  soup.  It  was 
as  if  a  htmdred  dollar  a  minute  surgeon 
should  ttu^  over  an  operation  to  an 
imderstudy. 

It  was  a  pity  that  Miss  April  could 
not  have  made  a  visit  to  the  kitchen 
in  Second  Avenue.  There  the  sup- 
posedly impracticable  Polhemus,  mus- 
tache waxed,  to  copy  in  all  things  the 
technique  of  the  craft,  white-capped 
and  white-aproned,  discussed  with  the 
old  chef  whether  a  salad  dressing  needed 
three  more  drops  of  vinegar,  and  if 
it  were  possible  to  so  season  a  dubious 
pigeon  as  to  make  it  available. 

"But  it  is  a  serious  thing.  What 
shall  I  say!  like  the  engineering  of  the 
canal  Panama.  Is  it  that  I  shall  let 
fall  three  more  drops?  And  the  pigeon? 
Let  us  make  the  trial.  As  to  the  soup? 
I  shall  decide." 

The  little  room  steamed  as  if  from 
a  leaky  safety-valve  of  a  boiler.  Over 
all  hung  odors  as  thick  as  the  French- 
man's soup.    And,  hustlc-d  by  the  mas- 


BEYOND  THE  SOUP 


355 


ter  and  his  excited  assistant,  leaped 
two  wrestlers  of  sauce-parts.  In  and 
out  rushed  waiters,  meek  deference 
to  the  chef  and  to  Polhemus,  disdainful 
of  the  pot  wrestlers,  and  helping  them- 
selves to  the  ordinary  dishes;  but  always 
waiting  their  turn  while  the  chef  meas- 
ured out  the  soup  with  as  much  accuracy 
as  if  it  were  liquid  gold  and  its  cube- 
lets  of  potato  and  carrot  were  diamonds 
and  topazes. 

Such  was  the  training  that  Polhemus 
received,  and  before  the  end  of  his 
apprenticeship  he  was  an  artist  in  soup 
and  a  not  ill-qualified  master  in  other 
parts  of  the  menu. 

Said  the  old  Frenchman,  late  one 
evening  after  the  last  Welsh  rarebit 
had  sizzled  upstairs  on  its  almost  red- 
hot  oval,  '*M'sieu,'  it  is  that  the  em- 
ployment office  Madam  gave  me  the 
information  that  at  a  house  in  the 
country  there  is  wanted  the  chef.  It 
is  not  the  permanency,  but  for  the 
occasion  temporary.  Fine  pay  and  the 
experience!  If  M'sieu'  decides  yes,  he 
shall  do  well." 

**I  don't  know  about  anything  of 
that  sort,"  replied  Polhemus.  "You 
remember  that  I  told  you  it  was  for 
personal  reasons  that  I  wished  to  learn 
scientific  cookery.  Definitely,  I  might 
say  I  have  never,  even  lately,  thought 
of  making  it  a  life  work." 

"It  is  that  I  have  the  appreciation 
of  that;  you  may  have  thought  you 
would  degrade  my  art  to  —  to  what 
you  call  him?  the  hobby?" 

"No,  no,"  said  the  pupil,  "Never! 
and,  strange  enough,  lately  I've  thought 
that  perhaps  my  original  purpose  was 
getting  shelved.  It  is  a  high  ambi- 
tion to  get  to  the  top." 

"It  is  my  opinion  that  if  M'sieu'  shall 
take  the  time  he  has  the  ambition 
not  beyond  what  his  talents  could 
surmoimt." 

"Thank  you,"  said  Polhemus.  "And 
I  have  learned  already  that  it  might 
take  years  to  get  very  far." 

"Years,     many,     many    years!     For 


soup,  as  M'sieu'  is  not  ignorant,  I 
can  be  taught  nothing  —  nothing. 
But  for  entries  —  My,  my!  that  is  an 
affair  of  the  lifetime!" 

"Where    would    one     go     to     obtain 
high-brow  instruction  —  say  in  entries?" 

"Your  high-brow,  what  is  that?" 

"The  most  perfect  instruction?" 

"Paris,  most  assuredly." 

"And  where  in  Paris?" 

"It  is  that  M'sieu'  shall  go  to  Paris?" 

"Don't  ask  me.  I  never  know  what 
I'm  going  to  do  fifteen  minutes  before 
I  do  it.     But  if  I  should  go?" 

"You  shall  take  my  card.  Seel  I 
write  on  the  card  a  note  of  approbation 
of  M'sieu'.  It  shall  wide  open  the  door 
to  the  affections  of  a  — What  you  say? 
a  high-brow  magnificent." 

Polhemus  put  the  card  into  his  pocket- 
book.  "And  you  advise  me  to  take 
this  temporary  work?" 

"Most  assuredly.  It  is  the  exper- 
ience that  you  need.  You  shall  fear 
nothings!  Only  do  not  fail  with  the 
soup." 

Polhemus  believed  that  he  would  not 
fail  even  with  the  soup.  He  had  eaten 
many  dinners  in  country  houses  and  he 
thought  he  could  astonish  palates  ac- 
customed to  ordinary  cooking.  It  would 
be  a  fascinating  experiment;  and  the  next 
day  Polhemus  mounted  the  stairs  to  the 
office  of  the  Madam. 

"For  excellent  reasons  I  do  not  care 
to  have  my  identity  known,"  said 
Polhemus. 

"I  could  tell  you  of  more  than  one 
French  aristocrat  who  has  done  the 
same,"  replied  the  Madam.  "There  is 
no  dishonor  in  acting  as  a  chef  —  and 
the  pay  is  high." 

"I  shall  shave  oflf  my  mustache  and 
wear  one  of  a  different  color,  and  I  shall 
wear  a  wig  and  take  an  assumed  name," 
said  Polhemus. 

"Certainly  —  it  is  imderstood." 

"Then  it's  settled,"  said  Polhemus. 

Two  minutes  afterward  the  applicant 
had  difficulty  in  controlling  his  aston- 
ishment.    The  position  offered  was  none 


356 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


other  than  to  cook  at  a  dinner  to  be  given 
by  Miss  April's  mother. 

April's  mother  needed  a  cook.  The 
last  had  gone  just  before  the  day  set  for 
a  dinner.  Thus  came  the  opportunity 
for  Polhemus  to  prove  that  no  one  could 
henceforth  call  him  impracticable  and 
the  chance  to  cook  himself  into  the  ap- 
proval of  the  sapphire  eyes. 

It  was  a  providential  opportunity  and 
as  such  Polhemus  regarded  it.  His 
heart  quickened  as  he  thought  of  it,  but 
if  he  had  expressed  what  was  really  in 
his  mind,  he^  would  have  acknowledged 
that  the  quickened  heart-beat  had  more 
to  do  with  a  desire  to  prove  to  himself, 
and  incidentally  to  others,  that  he  was 
equal  to  preparing  an  entire  dinner. 

On  the  morning  of  the  day  set  for  the 
dinner  he  almost  wished  himself  back 
in  the  Second  Avenue  kitchen. 

*'The  maid  will  show  yotir room, "said 
April's  mother.  **The  dinner  will  be  at 
seven-thirty.  There  will  be  nine  guests 
and  three  of  the  family  —  twelve  in  all, — 
and  goodness  knows  I  hope  everything 
will  go  on  all  right !" 

**It  is  that  you  will  leave  him  to  me," 
said  Polhemus  in  a  husky  voice  and  im- 
itating the  verbiage  of  his  master.     * 

'*The  maid  will  show  you  the  menu. 
If  you  want  to  change  it  in  unimport- 
ant particulars,  you  can  do  so.  Mrs. 
Simmons  —  you  will  find  her  a  reliable 
woman  —  will  come  over  to  help. 
There's  a  phone  in  the  hall.  If  you  don't 
find  what  you  need,  order  it.  The  con- 
fectioner will  bring  the  cakes  and  ices  at 
seven." 

"Assuredly,  it  is  well  arranged,"  said 
the  chef. 

It  proved  one  of  the  most  exciting  days 
that  Polhemus  enjoyed  in  his  craft. 
Only  once,  from  a  window  of  the  kitchen, 
did  he  catch  a  glimpse  of  Miss  April. 
She  was  in  tennis  rig  and  strolling  toward 
the  courts  with  a  fine-looking  young  man. 
Once  the  sight  would  have  seared  the 
heart  of  the  chef  with  jealousy,  but  just 
then  he  happened  to  be  pondering  over 


a  detail  of  the  dinner. 

At  seven-thirty  the  chef  had  every- 
thing in  hand.  He  felt  a  glow  of 
artistic  pride  as  he  sniffed  the  fragrant 
soup. 

"What  a  heavenly  odor! "exclaimed  a 
voice  that  once  could  shake  his  heart  as 
a  hurricane  shakes  palm  trees.  From 
his  kettles  Polhemus  glanced  upward. 
In  the  door  stood  a  vision  that  ought 
to  have  made  him  oblivious  to  any  soup. 

"I  couldn't  help  sneaking  away.  I've 
just  finished  a  course  in  cookery.  It  is 
wonderful!  The  richness  fills  the  whole 
rear  of  the  house." 

"Assuredly,  it  is  the  perfume  of  a  soup 
most  fine." 

"What  a  cold  you've  got!"  exclaimed 
Miss  April.  "Your  voice  is  awfully 
husky.  But  that  soup  —  Yimi,  yum ' 
Ta,  ta!  see  you  later!"  and  Miss 
April  vanished. 

With  the  "Ta,  ta!"  Polhemus  jerked 
himself  erect.  Who  could  suppose  she 
would  take  such  liberties  with  a  cook! 
But  he  had  no  difficulty  in  turning 
his  thoughts  to  the  final  seasoning  of 
his  dishes. 

One  of  the  maids  was  most  attractive. 
She  it  was  who  had  shown  Polhemus 
to  his  room,  and  when  the  dinner  had 
begun  she  complimented  the  young 
chef. 

"Monsieur,  there's  a  fat  man  in 
there  who  asked  Madam  where  she 
had  found  her  cook.  He  said  he  had 
never  eaten  such  soup  even  in  Paris — 
that  a  cook  who  could  make  such  soup 
was  worth  ten  thousand  dollars  a  year." 

"That  is  true,"  replied  Polhemus. 
"That  soup  is  absolutely  perfect." 

The  maid  bustled  away,  lingering 
at  the  door  to  smile  at  Polhemus. 
But  the  chef  was  engrossed  in  his  art. 

Notwithstanding  doubts  that  he  had 
concerning  his  entries,  rumors  came 
in  with  the  empty  dishes  that  all  the 
dinner  was  a  wonderful  success.  This 
was  later  in  the  evening  confirmed 
when  April's  mother  came  in  person 
to  express  her  approbation. 


BEYOND  THE  SOUP 


357 


"I've  never  known  a  dinner  like 
that  in  a  private  house,"  said  the  delight- 
ed hostess.  "The  soup!  It  was  amaz- 
ing, superlative!" 

"The  soup  was  perfect,"  replied 
Polhemus,  forgetting  his  role  of  French- 
man. "But  sonetime  I  hope  to  prepare 
an  entire  .dinner  that  will  be  as  perfect 
as  my  introductions.  A  dinner  should 
have  a  climax  —  toward  the  end.  My 
dinners  have  the  climax  at  the  wrong 
place.  I'm  going  to  Paris  to  devote 
myself  to  my  art." 

"It  was  all  delicious!"  exclaimed 
April's  mother.  "And  my  daughter 
has  been  taking  a  course  in  domestic 
science.  She  is  coming  to  tell  you  how 
lovely  yotir  cooking  is." 

Five  minutes  later  April  again  ap- 
peared. She  motioned  to  Polhemus, 
and  the  chef  followed  her  to  a  little 
room    that    had    no    other  occupants. 

"Now,  sir,  what  do  you  mean  by  this?" 
asked  Miss  April  severely.  "Of  course, 
I  knew  you  at  once." 

"I  hoped  to  prove  to  you  that  my 
impracticability  could  be  overcome." 

"You've  certainly  proved  that  you 
could   cook,"    remarked    Miss   April. 

"The  young  fellow  I  saw  you  with 
this  afternoon?"  asked  Polhemus.  "He 
was  very   attentive." 

Miss  April  turned  her  face  to  the 
wall  and  became  absorbed  in  tracing  a 
pattern  of  the  paper  with  her  finger. 

"Of  course,"  continued  Polhemus, 
"you've  got  the  right  to  receive  such 


attentions.  My  object  in  coming  here 
was  to  show  my  skill  —  and  —  well. 
I've  concluded  that  it  was  nothing  else". 

"Nothing  else,"  repeated  Miss  April, 
still  tracing  the  design  of  the  paper. 

"Nothing  but  that,"  said  Polhemus. 
"I've  had  an  extraordinary  tutor  in 
soup.  My  fish  and  all  the  rest  do  not 
come  up  to  the  soup.  Oh,  I  know 
it!  you  needn't  say  it!  but  that  is  only 
because  I  have  not  had  expert  teaching — 
not  the  most  expert,  except  in  soup. 
I'm  going  where  I  will  learn  to  excel 
in  everything.  In  ten  days  I  shall 
be  in  Paris.  I  can  hardly  wait.  You 
have  taken  lessons  and  can  understand." 

A  sound  came  from  the  neighbor- 
hood of  the  tracing  finger,  half  sniff 
and  half  sigh. 

"You'll  never  change,"  she  said 
wearily,  turning  to  face  the  chef.  "You 
are  the  most  impracticable  person  that 
ever  lived.  The  young  man  that 
you  noticed?  I  told  him  I  would 
give  him  an  answer  to-morrow, —  it 
will  be,  'yes.'  " 

"It  beats  me!"  Polhemus  exclaimed 
to  the  artist  the  next  evening.  "She 
ate  that  soup  and  yet  she  called  me 
impracticable!" 

"Holy  mackerel,  of  course  she  did!" 
snorted  the  painter.  "Go  to  Paris 
and  keep  your  nose  over  pots  and 
kettles!  If  you  should  marry,  a  super- 
lative chef  would  be  ruined.  But  you 
never  will;  you  are  too  impracticable." 


The  Christmas  Birds 


At  Christmas  time  the  presents  fly, 
Like  birds  against  a  leaden  sky; 
And  some  are  swallows  swift  and  bold 
And  some  are  orioles  of  gold. 
And  some  are  wrens  and  some  are  jays, 
Or  doves  in  mottled  blues  and  grays, 
While  some  I'm  sadly  forced  to  say 
Seem  very  like  to  birds  of  prey. 


At  Christmas  time  the  presents  Ay 
Like  birds,  twixt  low  estate  and  high. 
Kindred  and  friends  and  neighbors  speed 
Them  on  their  way,  and  blest,  indeed, 
Their  mission,  when  unselfish  each 
Some  phase  of  Christlike  love  shall  teach. 
But  gifts  that  seek  return,  say  I, 
Are  very  like  to  birds  of  prey. 

Laua  Mitch ELi<. 


Mothering  Our  Girls 


By  Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson 


RUSKIN,  in  one  of  his  inimitable 
preachments  anent  character 
building,  says,  —  **You  may 
chisel  a  boy  into  shape,  as  you  would 
a  rock,  or  hammer  him  into  it.  if  he 
be  of  a  better  kind,  as  you  would  a 
piece  of  bronze.  But  you  cannot  ham- 
mer a  girl  into  anything.  She  grows 
as  a  flower  does,  —  she  will  wither 
without  Sim;  she  will  decay  in  her 
sheath  as  the  narcissus  does,  if  you 
do  not  give  her  air  enough;  she  may 
fall,  and  defile  her  head  in  the  dust, 
if  you  leave  her  without  help  at  some 
moments  of  her  life,  but  you  cannot 
fetter  her,  she  must  take  her  own 
fair  form  and  way,  if  she  take  any, 
and  in  mind  as  in  body,  must  have 
always  — 

**  'Her  household  motions  light  and 
free 
And  steps  of  virgin  liberty.*'* 

Whether  the  good  stuff  in  the  aver- 
age American  boy  doesn't  warrant 
something  better  than  the  hammer- 
ing treatment,  I  shall  not  presume  to 
say,  but  without  exception  all  the 
superioc  girls  of  my  acqtiaintance  have 
unfailingly  been  reared  by  the  fetter- 
less method.  They  have  —  to  a  girl  — 
been  mothered  by  women  who  have 
understood  a  mother's  most  gracious 
prerogative,  —  the  telling  art  of  focus- 
ing the  maternal  light  for  the  child's 
development,  that  in  "her  own  fair 
form  and  way"  might  flower  the  rich- 
ness of  an  unthwarted  individuality. 

There  is  no  more  pathetic  spectacle 
confronting  us  to-day  than  the  pitiable 
contingent  forced  to  live  half-lives  and 
quarter-lives  through  the  arbitrary  rul- 
ings of  misguided  parenthood.  The 
burnt  offerings  of  promising  person- 
alities that  have  been  sacrificed  on 
the  altar  of  ignorant  leadership! 

I   have   in   n^nd   a   woman   of   the 


sparrow-like  type  of  spinsterhood  now 
dragging  out  a  forlorn  and  drab  exis- 
tence in  a  small  New  England  town, 
who  is  nothing  if  not  a  living  testi- 
monial to  a  tyrannical  mother  —  a 
person  whose  whole  attitude  toward 
life  seemed  that  of 'a  conquering  spirit. 
Strange  as  it  may  appear,  this  woman 
was  of  gentle  blood  and  ranked  far 
above  the  average  citizen  in  schooling. 
But  the  desire  to  dominate  her  sur- 
roundings was  paramount.  She  prided 
herself  on  her  strong  will  and  her 
ability  to  "conquer"  her  children. 

Thwarted  and  check-mated  in  almost 
all  of  the  moves  of  youthful  desire, 
the  more  independent  of  the  two  daugh- 
ters threw  up  the  game  and  left  home, 
the  more  conscientious  remained  and 
submitted.  A  few  years  ago  death 
finally  robbed  the  mother's  dictatorial 
hand  of  its  sceptre,  leaving  this  lonely 
and  dependent  daughter  to  master 
the  awkward  problem  of  adjustment 
to  freedom  of  action,  some  hoarded 
money  that  she  simply  cannot  get 
accustomed  to  handling  and  a  host  of 
bitter  reflections  on  "what  might  have 
been."  Assuredly  not  an  enviable 
legacy ! 

Ruskin  was  right.  "You  cannot  ham- 
mer a  giri  into  anything." 

Motherhood  is,  indeed,  a  complex 
problem,  but  we  have  yet  to  discover 
that  which  may  yield  richer  returns 
for  the  time  involved.  When  the  rank 
and  file  of  womanhood  have  grasped 
the  indisputable  fact  that  our  homes 
amount  to  about  so  much  as  the  mothers 
in  them,  and  that  our  nation  may 
never  be  greater  nor  stronger  than 
the  boys  and  girls  we  are  molding  in 
these  self-same  several  homes,  then, 
and  then  only,  will  the  colossal  mag- 
nitude of  our  work  be  realized.  Mock- 
motherhood,   with  all  its   unattractive 


358 


MOTHERING  OUR  GIRLS 


359 


attributes,  will  slough  off,  and  the 
golden  service  of  painstaking  child- 
rearing  assume  its  destined  dignity. 
God  speed  the  day! 

Recently,  at  a  grammar  school  grad- 
uation, I  watched  a  group  of  white- 
frocked,  beautiful  girls,  while  all  un- 
bidden these  words  drifted  across  my 
mind. —  "She  grows  as  a  flower  does. — 
she  will  wither  without  the  sun,"  and 
never  more  forcefully  was  brought 
home  the  fructifying  strength  of  a 
mother's  love.  Not  the  pale,  sickly 
imitation,  composed  of  untoward  indul- 
gences and  excessive  fondling,  but  that 
golden  wealth  of  affection  that,  while 
imparting  strength,  coaxes  into  growth 
all  latent  possibilities.  For  fused  into 
this  real  light  of  mother-love  are  all 
the  prismatic-like  splendors  of  tact, 
intelligence,  patience,  courage,  cheer, 
sympathy  and  comraderie. 

An  eminently  successful  woman  of 
the  present  day  was  recently  recount- 
ing her  very  apparent  indebtedness 
to  her  mother.  **  Mother's  greatest  gifts 
to  me,"  she  loyally  confessed,  **were*a 
most  tactful  stuveillance  of  me  and 
all  my  affairs,  an  adroit  assistance 
in  helping  me  to  help  myself,  and 
sort  of  a  great  encompassing  expec- 
tation that  spurred  me  to  do  my  best." 
That  this  clever  and  useful  woman 
continues  to  lavish  her  great  creative 
ability  is  now  a  matter  of  pride  to  the 
citizenry  of  her  native  country.  Here, 
indeed,  is  a  flower  among  women,  the 
product  of  a  mother  who  believed  in 
the  education  of  heart,  head,  and 
hands. 

^  It  is  a  matter  to  rejoice  over  that 
the  old-fashioned  flagrant  mistake  of 
bending  the  career  of  the  young  to 
please  parental  whim  is  beginning  to 
disappear.  The  happier  results  of  voca- 
tional training,  due  to  a  little  dis- 
criminating insight,  are  causing  the 
scales  to  fall  from  our  eyes.  Scarcely 
a  week  passes  that  the  writer  does 
not  witness  its  far-reaching  effects. 
For  example,  Mary,  whom  her  mother 


desired  to  become  a  musician  from 
the  mere  flimsy  excuse  that  she  her- 
self had  been  denied  musical  train- 
ing, has  become  a  successful  dietitian 
and  a  correspondingly  useful  member 
of  society.  While  the  dulcet-throated 
daughter  of  the  village  hackman  is 
being  led  grand-operaward.  And  so 
on  might  be  quoted  innvimerable  in- 
stances. Thus  the  ideal  co-operation 
between  parent  and  child  is  being 
established.  We  are  beginning  to  look 
for  the  innate  spark  of  genius  in  the 
unfolding  personalities  of  the  young 
idea  and,  by  judicious  supervision,  help 
them  to  perfect  such  gifts. 

All  modem  educators,  winning  the 
most  permanent  and  satisfactory  re- 
sults, are  they  who  are  demanding 
proof  of  exact  thinking  through  exactly 
executed  work  of  the  hands;  hence, 
the  yearly  increase  in  our  technical 
and  manual  training  courses  and  classes 
of  domestic  arts.  Yet,  on  all  sides, 
are  we  met  with  the  critical  railing  of 
women  who  would  eliminate  the  domes- 
tic science  classes  from  the  public 
school,  arguing  that  this  is  a  phase 
of  education  which  belongs  to  the 
home.  But  the  challenging  fact  re- 
mains that  the  average  mother  is 
positively  neglectful  in  this  respect. 
One  of  our  direst  needs  still  remains 
to  acquaint  our  grammar  and  high 
school  girls  with  the  rudiments  of 
home-making.  It  forms  one  of  our 
most  drastic  measures  to  abolish  ignor- 
ant, slipshod  and  deathdealing  methods 
from  the  carelessly  kept  home. 

More  than  one  *  little  mother"  of 
the  domestic  science  classes  of  our 
public  schools  has  been  the  means 
of  enlightening  a  big  mother  to  the 
ultimate  good  of  an  entire  family. 
May  the  time  soon  come  when  these 
classes  are  not  only  compulsory  in 
the  public  schools  of  our  towns  and 
cities,  but  even  may  the  girls  of  rural 
localities  enjoy  the  advantages  of  a 
traveling  Cooking  School  patterned 
somewhat   after   the   fanjous   traveling 


360 


THE  ^BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Koch  Schnle  of  Cassel  in  Germany, 

Far  and  near  let  "mother"  be  re- 
minded of  her  matchless  province  till 
she  realizes  that  the  most  valuable 
asset  to  society  was,  is,  and  ever  shall 
be,  the  homemaking,  mother-trained 
girl.  For  indelible  corroboration  of  this 
statement,  ask  your  district  nurses, 
your  social  service  workers,  your  night 
court  judges,  or  take  a  casual  peep 
into  the  mortality  statistics  of  a  census 
report.  In  1911,  out  of  a  total  of 
839,284  deaths  in  an  observed  area, 
149,332  children  died  under  one  year 
of  age,  and  209,482  died  under  five 
years  of  age,  making  an  appalling 
aggregate  of  358,814  deaths  of  little 
folks  under  five  years  of  age,  out  of 
the  sum  total  of  839,284  deaths  for 
the  entire  year.  We  cannot  but  won- 
der what  percentage  of  little  lives 
were  martyrs  to  ignorance,  or  how  many 
untrained  and  careless  women  yearly 
lift  blighting  hands  for  the  gift  of 
motherhood. 

But,  on  the  whole,  it  is  reassuring 
to  the  true  motherheart  to  observe 
the  unparalleled  study  that  the  present 
strenuous  times  devotes  to  the  develop- 
ment of  the  child.  Never  before  have 
normal,  defective,  and  deUnquent  chil- 
dren so  thoroughly  arrested  the  atten- 
tion  of   some   of   our   sanest   thinkers. 


Never  before  have  we  combined  so 
effectively  to  eliminate  destructive  ten- 
dencies oif  the  young  as  with  the  present 
day  potent  appeal  to  the  constructive 
faculties. 

The  Montessori  "Houses  of  Child- 
hood," spreading  from  the  poorer  dis- 
tricts of  Rome  throughout  Italy  to 
France,  Germany,  England,  and  our 
own  progressive  country,  are  inculcating 
a  new  directive  method  in  our  homes'. 
We  are,  at  last,  joining  hands  with  the 
child  of  to-day,  to  help  build  to-morrow's 
salvation.  Mother  is  slowly  but  surely 
learning  the  new  role  of  reverent  observer 
and  guide,  without  obtruding  her  per- 
sonality, and  unlearning  the  fallacy  of 
coercion, —  in  short,  adopting  the  fet- 
terless method  that  Ruskin  advocated. 

More  and  more  are  we  proving  the 
tonic  effect  of  ideal  suggestion  and, 
while  our  girls  are  flowering  into  promis- 
ing womanhood,  let  us  not  fail  "to 
encompass  them  with  great  expec- 
tations," that  the  future  may  proudly 
record, — 

''Look  to  the  blowing  rose  about  us  — 
*Lo. 
Laughing,'  she  says,  'into  the  world 

I  blow, 
At  once  the  silken  tassel  of  my  purse 
Tear,  and  its  treasure  on  the  garden 
throw.'  " 


The  Piper 


The  wild  pipes  of  the  Northern  Wind 

Are  calling,  loud  and  free. 
And  I  must  follow,  follow  and  find 

Wherever  he  leadeth  me. 
Caroling  loud,  caroling  clear, 

"Come  with  me,  romp  with  me, 

Taste  of  my  cheer!" 


Oh,  sweet  is  the  perfume  he  brings  me, 

The  fragrant  breath  of  the  pine, — 
And  sweet  is  the  song  he  sings  me, 

With  a  sweetness  dslK  divine. 
Chanting  high,  crooning  low, 

"Follow  me,  follow, 

Joy  shall  you  know." 


And  ever  I  follow  the  charmer  bold. 

Across  the  meadows  brown, 
As  the  children  followed  the  piper  of  old. 

Away  from  the  noisy  town. 
Following  here,  following  there, 

Glad  in  the  track 

Of  the  wind,  I  fare. 

Christine  Kerr  Davis. 


Millicent's  Christmas  Offerings 


By  Mix  Thorn 


MILLICENT  was  unpacking  her 
trunk,  a  lengthy  proceeding, 
shaking  out  her  crumpled  finery 
patting  abused  looking  hats  into  shape, 
and  spreading  skirts  and  blouses  upon 
a  convenient  couch.  Sometimes  she 
smiled  in  reminiscent  fashion  at  a 
note  or  stray  snap-shot,  that  slipped 
out  of  an  overful  portfolio,  and  then 
she  sighed  as  she  spied  somtf  gay  auto- 
mobile pennants. 

"I  feel  now,  mother,**  she  exclaimed 
an  hour  later,  "that  my  beautiful 
visits  are  really  over,  for  Joel  has 
just  carried  my  trunk,  that  much 
traveled  trunk,  to  the  attic,  but  oh, 
Tve  a  sort  of  lost  empty  feeling,  glad 
as  I  am  to  be  at  home  again,  with 
my  own  best-of-all,  family.  Why," 
with  a  remorseful  glance  around  the 
cheerful  sitting  room,  "it's  so  dear, 
and  I  love  it,  I  love  it,  yet  every  thing, 
yes,  let  me  say  it,  seems,  to-day,  'flat, 
stale  and  tmprofitable.'  '* 

A  quick  rush  of  tears  filled  the  gray 
eyes,  and  Mrs.  North  patted  the  slim, 
young  hand  that  was  suddenly  held 
out  to  her.  Her  very  touch  was  re- 
assuring to  Millicent  in  her  perplexity. 

"I  understand,  my  child,  I  know 
exactly  how  you  feel,**  she  said,  "your 
little  jotimey  into  the  world,  won- 
derful though  it  was,  is  a  bit  unsettling. 
You  will  be  your  own  happy  merry 
self  in  a  few  days;  why,**  smUing  whim- 
sically, "haven't  I  been  a  girl  myself! 
Go  out  in  the  garden,  follow  the  but- 
terflies, or  give  Laddie  a  good  walk; 
the  poor  dog  has  missed  you;  find 
the  sunshine,  anyway,"  and  she  hur- 
ried away. 

A  few  moments  later,  Mrs.  North 
heard  a  whistle,  and  saw  the  girl  and 
an  ecstatic  dog  turning  down  the 
lane,  so  she  knew  that  part  of  her 
advice,    at   least,    was   being   followed. 


Millicent  North  had  just  returned 
from  a  series  of  visits  to  three  of  her 
school  girl  friends  in  their  city  homes, 
and  it  was  small  wonder  that  her 
country  home  should  seem  quiet  and 
prosaic  after  her  "Feast  of  soul,"  as 
she  expressed  it. 

At  Helen  Manning*s  she  had  motored 
daily,  visiting  one  fascinating  sub- 
urb after  another,  lunching  at  smart 
inns,  had  tea  at  some  quaint  tea-house, 
in  the  late  afternoon,  dinner  at  pic- 
turesque shore  resorts,  and  had  been 
taken  into  a  charmed  circle  com- 
posed of  lively  yoimg  people,  who 
willingly  received  Helen's  friend. 

At  Joan  Travers*  she  had  attended 
charming  lunches,  had  seen  the  latest 
plays,  flushing  with  pleasure  to  be 
in  a  mvsterious  box,  so  near  the  more 
mysterious  stage,  and  thrilled  with 
delight  at  the  musicales,  where  silvery 
voices    seemed   to   sing   to   her   alone. 

At  Mary  Channing*s  she  did  the 
shops,  lingered  long  in  picture  gal- 
leries, attended  lectures  at  the  beau- 
tiful college  set  on  the  heights  above 
the  busy  city,  and  when,  after  six 
weeks  of  such  visiting,  she  returned 
home  in  early  June,  though  the  vil- 
lage was  brave  in  bud  and  flower, 
her  own  garden  a  riot  of  opening  roses, 
the  comfortable  old  house  with  its 
doors  and  windows  flung  open  to  wel- 
come her,  a  peaceful  haven,  yet  she 
found  to  her  consternation,  that  she 
sadly  missed  all  that  she  had  left, 
and  she  longed  to  do  something  hard, 
and  thus  fill  both  hands  and  mind. 

It  was  Mrs.  North  who  enquired 
one  day  as  together  they  sat  on  the 
vine-covered  piazza  —  "It*s  early  to 
ask,  perhaps,  but  summer  is  here, 
and  it  is  the  chosen  time  to  be  thinking 
up  Christmas  gifts.  Now,  childie,  what 
are  you  going  to  give  these  dear  gen- 


361 


362 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


erous  friends  who  have  done  so  much 
for  your  pleasure?" 

MiUicent,  who  had  been  silent  for 
sometime,  sober  eyes  fixed  upon  the 
stretch  of  green  meadow  land  across 
the  trim  cut  hedge,  shook  her  head 
hopelessly.  At  last  she  began,  as  if 
ashamed  of  her  abstraction:  **0h,  I 
don't  know,  mother;  embroider  some- 
thing, maybe  doilies,  maybe  make  work- 
bags.  Suppose  Helen  might  be  pleased 
with  a  cushion  for  her  den  —  that 
dear  little  den,"  and  then  she  lapsed 
into  quiet  again. 

"Hasn't  Helen  enough  cushions  left 
over  from  her  couch  at  school?  I 
seem  to  remember  quantities  of  them 
in  the  sitting  room  you  and  she  shared 
at  Miss  Billings'.  Then  embroidery 
takes  time  and  patience.  Beside,  these 
girls'  mothers  were  your  hostesses, 
and  should  be  included  in  your  Christ- 
mas scheme,  it  occurs  to  me." 

"I  know  that  is  so,"  and  Millicent 
sat  up  straighter,  her  pre-occupation 
gone. 

"Well,  dearie,"  and  Mrs.  North  laid 
down  her  mending,  "I've  been  thinking 
up  a  plan  which  I  believe  is  a  feasable 
one,  and  I  hope  my  daughter  will 
agree  with  me.  It  will  be  good 
for  her  in  her  present  mood;  it  will 
pleasantly  include  her  mother,  and 
would  be  the  solution  of  her  Christ- 
mas problems.  Listen!  I  propose  that 
you  and  I  together  shall  make  jam,  con- 
serve and  pickle,  filling  a  quantity  of 
jars  with  cotmtry  fruits  fresh  from  our 
own  farm,  and  send  these  to  your  town 
friends  for  Christmas,  daintily  wrapped 
and  labeled.  Now,  does  this  appeal 
to  you,  MiUicent?*' 

"It's  a  lovely  plan,  a  charming 
notion,"  cried  the  girl,  taking  a  few 
dancing  steps,  her  eyes  sparkling,  and 
her  dimple  beginning  to  show  in  her 
cheek.  "How  did  you  think  up  such 
a  heavenly  idea?  Here  I  am,  a  year 
out  of  school,  ignorant  enough  about 
such  matters;  I'd  joy  to  take  lessons 
from  you,  oh  wise  mother.   When,  when 


can  we  begin  our  course  in  cooking?" 

"We  can  start  with  cturant  jelly," 
was  the  reply,  "and  continue  when 
the  berries  are  ripe.  Raspberry  jam 
is  always  available  and  delicious;  then 
come  plums,  peaches,  and  grapes.  Why, 
it  will  be  delightful  for  me  to  teach 
you,  sweetheart,  though  I've  always 
loved  such  things,  even  when  I  must 
do  them  alone." 

In  the  long  July  days,  Millicent, 
enveloped  in  a  voluminous  apron,  and 
with  rolled-up  sleeves  displaying  her 
dimpled  elbows,  might  have  been  dis- 
covered haomting  the  cool  old  kitchen, 
and  stirring  and  tasting  in  most 
approved  fashion,  as  she  and  her 
mother  watched  the  currant  juice  boil- 
ing on  the  range,  and,  later,  fairly  gloat- 
ing over  the  store  of  translucent  sweet- 
ness, safely  stored  away  in  jelly  glasses. 

"I  didn't  dream  what  fim  it  could 
be  to  do  up  fruit,"  broke  in  the  young 
girl,  as  she  enthusiastically  pasted  some 
dainty  holly  labels  on  the  tall  slim 
glasses,  with  the  magic  words,  "Currant 
Jelly."  inscribed  on  each  one.  "I  feel 
sort  of  an  Alice  in  Wonderland,  with 
all  my  new  happenings." 

Greatly  to  the  amusement  of  her 
family,  Millicent  insisted  in  helping 
gather  the  cultivated  raspberries  from 
their  own  vines,  and  emerged,  sun- 
browned  and  weary,  with  brimming 
pails  of  the  fragrant  berries. 

In  the  next  town  Millicent  and 
her  mother  discovered  some  odd  little 
jars  that  were  just  what  they  wanted 
to  hold  the  raspberry  jam,  and  late 
in  August,  while  brown  bees  boomed 
above  the  garden  beds,  and  the  brakes 
along  the  high  road  were  turning  yel- 
low, mother  and  daughter  worked  their 
magic  and  filled  each  waiting  jar  with 
the  luscious  jam.  "I  wish,"  said  Mil- 
licent, locking  up  from  her  congenial 
employment,  "I  do  wish,  mother,  that 
we  could  capttire  some  of  the  summer 
breezes,  the  light  and  sweetness,  and 
bird  songs,  and  seal  them  up  in  one 
jar,  a   big  jar,   th^t  could   be  opened 


MILLICENT'S  CHRISTMAS  OFFERINGS 


363 


some  particularly  dark,  gloomy  day, 
when  snow  flakes  were  in  the  air,  and 
a  real  old  giant  wind  was  abroad." 

"That  would  be  a  welcome  jar, 
a  gift  of  gifts,"  was  Mrs.  North's 
reply,  **but  to  preserve  the  fruits 
of  stmimer,  with  all  the  sunshine  stored 
up  in  them,  is  the  very  best  we  can 
do,  at  present." 

Later,  some  of  the  perfect  Damson 
pliuns  from  their  own  orchard  were 
converted  into  a  marvelous  conserve, 
nuts  and  oranges  being  added;  and 
more  plums  were  turned  into  firm  jam. 
Then  followed  the  honeylike,  golden, 
peach  marmalade,  and  pickled  peaches, 
dark  and  spicy,  were  put  away  in 
rich  syrup.  Spiced  grapes  ended  the 
list,  and  well  they  might,  for  the  fruit 
closet  shelves  fairly  groaned  under 
their  load  of  good  things. 

"Oh,  Mater  mine,"  said  MilUcent 
one  blue  October  day,  standing  in 
the  fruit  closet,  stu^eying  with  par- 
donable pride  the  imposing  array  of 
jars  and  pots  and  glasses,  with  their 
attractive  labels,  "Isn't  it  just  gor- 
geous and  satisfying!  To  think  that 
my  most  important  Christmas  gifts 
are  all  arranged  for,  and  such  unique 
gifts,  too.  Then  how  much  I've  learned ; 
why,  I  feel  like  the  wisest  of  young 
persons,  with  all  the  useful  knowledge 
I  have  acquired." 

"It  makes  me  very  happy  to  realize 
it,"  and  Mrs.  North  looked  fondly 
at  the  transfigured  yoimg  face,  "I 
own  I  am  very  proud  of  my  house- 
wifely daughter." 

A  certain  November  afternoon,  as 
warm  and  balmy  as  if  it  belonged 
to  September  rather  than  to  Novem- 
ber,  the  expressman  carried  out,   one 


by  one,  from  the  North  home,  three 
strong-looking  wooden  boxes,  destined 
for  New  York,  and  on  each  was  nailed 
a  placard,  so  plain  that  all  the  world 
might  read,  "Keep  in  a  cool  place. 
Not  to  be  opened  until  Christmas." 

Nor  were  they  opened  until  Christ- 
mas,- I  am  glad  to  say.  At  holiday 
time  such  heartfelt,  overflowing  letters 
did  Millicent  receive,  that  she  fairly 
glowed  with  happiness.  Both  her  friends 
and  their  mothers  wrote  thanks. 

"None  of  our  Christmas  gifts  pleased 
us,  as  did  yours,  ..dear  child,"  said 
Mrs.  Traverse'  thank-you  note,  "it 
was  such  a  happy  thought,  and  how 
all  this  country  treasure  truly  enriches 
a  city  home!" 

All  the  Channing  family  sent  a  joint 
note  of  thanks,  each  one  a  line,  begin- 
ning with  the  father  and  ending  with 
the  ten-year-old  sister. 

"Oh,  that  splendiferous  box,"  began 
Helen  Manning's  letter,  "a  veritable 
well  of  delight.  Wonder  how  you  man- 
aged to  get  so  much  in  one  plain,  or- 
dinary  box!  Father  is  for  sending 
me  down  to  your  mother  to  learn 
real  accomplishments,  as  he  says.  Guess 
I'll  come  if  you  ask  me.  I  yearn  to 
emulate  you." 

Beaming  Millicent  read  the  notes 
aloud,  and  then  read  them  again  to 
herself.  "Well,  it  was  beautiful,"  she 
sighed,  "the  gathering,  and  the  doing 
up,  the  sending  away,  every,  every 
bit  of  it.  Why,  mother,  it's  an  all-the- 
year-round  pleasure.  Let  us,  two  learned 
ones,  begin  any  time  to  plan  what 
shall  fill  our  fruit  closet  next  year;  yes, 
and  plan  at  the  same  time  the  rich- 
ness that  must  overflow  into  the  homes 
of  our  favored  friends." 


Dreams  are  the  ghosts  of  hours  agone. 
Vanishing  like  to  a  whispered  sigh, 
Harmonies,  faint,  of  a  half -sung  song 
Lost  like  the  rose  in  the  sunset  sky. 


Dreams 


They  are  the  misty  sails  that  fly 
In  the  twilight  down  to  the  moon-kissed  sea — 
Gone  like  the  night  wind  sobbing  by — 
Ahy  who  can  bring  back  my  dreams  to  me? 

R.  R.  GRHBifWogp 


In  Its  Own  Country 

By  Kate  Hudson 


IT  was  December  twenty-second; 
tomorrow  Miss  Ranney's  school 
was  to  disband  for  the  holidays, 
and  tonight  Miss  Ranney's  young  ladies 
were  sitting  aroimd  the  study  fire- 
place —  a  merry,  chattering  group  — 
planning  the  several  home  trips  and 
comparing  enthusiastic  notes  on  pro- 
spective holiday  joys. 

"Why,  of  course  we'll  have  one!" 
Sallie  was  saying;  **we  always  do;  we 
just  have  to  for  our  little  twinnies." 

"So  do  we;  at  my  Aunt  Lucy's," 
Mildred  chimed  in;  "a  great  big  tall 
one,  trimmed  with  big  colored  glass 
balls  and  bells  and  icicles,  just  blaz- 
ing with  electric  lights." 

"Well,  we  don't!"  said  Flora,  a 
bit  down  from  the  heights  of  her  very 
nearly  sixteen  years.  "We  haven't  had 
one  since  I  was  seven  years  old;  they 
are  so  sheddy  and  take  up  so  much 
room,  and  it's  only  the  little  bits  of 
children  that  care  for  them  anyway. 
Christmas  Trees  are  dolefully  stupid 
things  for  grown  folks,  aren't  they, 
Fraulein?"  turhing  to  the  German 
teacher,  who  just  then  was  joining 
the  happy  circle. 

"Stupid?  Only  for  the  very  smallest! 
The  Christmas  Tree!  !  "  exclaimed  Frau- 
lein Nicolovius;  "But  no!  No  one 
ever  gets  too  old  to  love  its  sturdy 
evergreen,  its  pine  smell,  its  soft  radiance. 
And  how  it  brings  back  one's  happy 
days!    Ach,  when  I  think  back!" 

"Tell  us  about  yoiu*  happy  days, 
Fraulein,"  cried  the  girls;  "tell  us 
about  your  German  Christmas  Tree, 
Fraulein  Meta." 

"My  father,  you  must  know,  was 
an  Oberforster  —  what  you  call  a  head- 
forester  —  and  we  lived  deep  in  the 
woods  near  Pritzwalk,  in  an  old  grey 
house  with  four  gables.  And  in  the 
hall  —  the    Flur,    we    call    it  —  there 


hung  many  wide  antlers  of  twelve, 
fourteen  and  even  sixteen  prongs !  With 
Advent-tide,  with  the  last  Sunday  in 
November,  the  dear  mother  began 
to  prepare  for  Christmas.  There  were 
mufflers,  mittens,  and  head-over-ear 
caps  to  knit,  so  father  and  the  three 
brothers  would  not  feel  the  cold  too 
much  in  our  Northern  woods;  and 
there  were  frocks  to  make  for  the 
several  dolls  belonging  to  Dorette  (our 
nest-chick);  and  the  big  much-handed- 
down  doll-house  had  to  be  repapered, 
and  fiuTiished  with  fresh  window-cur- 
tains; and  there  were  pine-cones,  larch 
tassels  and  gall  balls  to  gild  and  silver, 
and  nutshells  (neatly  glued  together) 
to  bronze  for  tree  decorations.  Sister 
Selma  and  I,  great  girls  of  fifteen  and 
sixteen,  would  help  bravely  till  bedtime 
and  then,  in  the  tiny  room  we  shared, 
and  by  the  dim  light  of  a  small  bedroom- 
lamp,  we'd  sit  up  for  another  hour  or 
two  working  on  the  worsted  slippers 
(with  a  stag's  head  surroimded  by  grass- 
green  oakleaves,  spread  over  toe  and 
instep)  for  father,  and  the  "  Alt-Deutsch" 
coffee-table  cloth  and  napkins,  with 
which  we  were  going  to  stu'prise  mother. 

"Along  about  the  twelfth  of  Decem- 
ber mother  would  begin  her  baking, 
and  for  the  next  week  or  ten  days  the 
house  would  be  steeped  in  the  scent 
of  ginger,  honey,  cardamon,  and  cara- 
way, and  the  huge  box  in  the  carefully 
guarded  pantry  comer  would  slowly 
fill  to  overflowing  with  cinnamon-stars, 
and  almond-wreaths,  with  golden  honey- 
cakes  and  spicy,  dark-brown  Lebkuchen 
boys  and  girls,  soldiers,  sailors  and 
every  known  (and  unknown)  species  of 
animal  and  bird. 

"On  Christmas  Eve  the  three  yoimger 
ones  would  be  sent  to  bed,  and  then 
mother  and  we  two  girls  would  trim 
the  tree,  not  a  very  big  one,  but  one 


364 


A  CHEER  SONG 


365 


straight-grown  and  sttirdy  —  for  father, 
himself,  always  selected  it  and  cut 
it  down  —  standing  firmly  planted  in 
the  very  middle  of  our  "good  room." 
To  its  fragrant  twigs  we  tied  the  glit- 
tering gold  cones  and  nuts,  red  apples, 
bimchlets  of  raisins  and  the  most  artis- 
tic specimens  of  our  cake;  and  wherever 
we  could  make  one  stick  we  would 
fasten  a  white  candlekin.  The  sim- 
ple presents  were  laid  on  the  long, 
white-covered  table  under  the  tree. 
Of  course,  we  were  pretty  tired  when, 
at  last,  we  went  to  bed,  all  soaked  in 
Christmas  sights,  sounds  and  smells; 
and  as  we'd  snuggle  down  into  oiu*  soft, 
warm  beds  we  would  hear  the  faraway 
bells  of  Pritzwalk  Church  ringing  in 
the  Christmas  Day,  and  calling  the 
people  to  the  midnight  service,  which 
mother  often  and  father  always  at- 
tended. 

"On  Christmas  morning  we  were 
always  up  and  ready  for  the  summons 
by  six  o'clock;  while  father  in  the  "gute 
Stube"  was  lighting  up  the  tree,  mother 
wotild  marshal  us  in  line  according 
to  age  —  first  Dorette,  then  the  boys, 
then  I,  then  Selma  and  so  on  to  our 
dear  Grosspapa,  the  oldest  of  us  all  — 
and  at  the  tinkle  of  the  Christmas 
bell  we  would  march  in  and  gather 
round  the  tree.  Mother  wotild  sit 
down  at  our  little  old  piano  and  we 
would  stand  singing  "0  du  frohliche, 
O    du    selige,    freude    bringende  Weih- 


nachtszeiiV  until  the  candles  had  burned 
quite  low;  then  we'd  fall  upon  our  gifts, 
and  by  stmrise  —  the  late  northern 
winter-sunrise  —  Christmas  would  be 
well  under  way 

"Breakfast  .over,  we  would  have 
brisk  nms  through  the  snowy  woods; 
then  came  the  jolly  dinner  with  its 
big  chestnut-stuffed  goose;  and  after- 
wards the  tree  was  once  more  lighted, 
while  all  of  us,  even  father's  "Forst- 
Eleven"  (the  yotmg  men  taking  a 
practical  course  in  forestry  under  him, 
of  whom  father  always  had  two  on  hand) 
and  we  five  children  —  sang  Christmas 
and  folks-songs  till  bedtime,  and  then 
Christmas  was  over." 

"And  was  that  all?"  queried  Flora; 
"no    company?    No    other    children? 
Just   only   the   family   celebrating    to- 
gether?" 

"Yes,"  sighed  Fraulein,  "Just  the 
family  together;  but  all  together." 

"I  wish  you  were  going  with  us 
tomorrow,  Fraulein  Meta,"  said  Sallie, 
rubbing  her  rosy  cheek  against  Frau- 
lein's  shoulder,  "to  see  an  American 
tree,  our  tree." 

"Oh,dear,"  groaned  Mildred,  "seems's 
if  I  just  couldn't  wait  till  tomorrow 
for  home  and  the  holidays!" 

"Ach  ja,"  laughed  Fraulein,  with  an 
odd  little  break  in  her  voice,  "when 
one  is  only  thr6e  hours  by  train  away 
from  one's  mother!  Christmas  and 
home   are   complementary." 


A  Cheer  Song 

If  the  path's  an  easy  one. 
So  that  footsteps  lightly  run, 

Where's  our  gain? 
Few  learn  power  on  the  plain ! 

If  the  way  to  up  the  hill, — 
Forward!  Climb  with  right  good  will, 

Growing  strong 
As  we  bravely  tramp  along! 

Mountain  tops  are  always  won 
Through  the  wind  and  rain  and  sun! 

Don't  get  blue! 
Life  is  all  worth  singing  to! 

Aldis  Dunbar. 


366 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


THE 

BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE 

OF  ^ 

Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics 

■  ■  > 

Subscription  $1.00  per  Year  Single  Copies,  10c 
Foreign  Postage  :  To  Canada,  20c  per  Year 
To  other  Foreign  Countries,  40c  per  Year 

TO  SUBSCRIBERS 

The  date  stamped  on  the  wrapper  is  the  date 
on  which  your  subscription  expires;  it  is^  also,  an 
acknowledgment  that  a  subscription,  or  a  renewal 
of  the  same,  has  been  received. 

Please  renew  on  receipt  of  the  colored  blank 
enclosed  for  this  purpose. 

In  sending  notice  to  renew  a  subscription  or 
change  of  address,  please  give  the  o/J  address 
as  well  as  the  new. 

In  referring  to  an  original  entry,  we  must  know 
the  name  as  it  was  formerly  given,  together  with 
the  Post-office,    County,    State,  Post-office  Box, 

or  Street  Number. 

■  ■  ■  ■  ■  '  ^ 

Statsm^ni  »/  amntrship  and  numagwmtni  m*  rtfuirtd  by 
tkt  Act  9/Congr§tt  of  August  24,  J912, 

Editor:  Janet  M.  Hill. 
Business  Managers:  R.  B.  Hill,  B.  M.  Hill. 

Owners: 

B.  M.  Hill,  Janet  M.  Hill,  R.  B.  Hill. 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

published  ten  times  a  year  by 

The  Boston  Cooking- School  Magazine  Co., 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

KimtKKD  AT  Bowroif  Pow-oFrici  ai  Skcowd-claw  Mattkb 

THE  WINTER  SINGER. 

0  cheery  comrade  of  somber  days, 
Enlivenme  winter  with  summer  lays, 

Jovial  chickadee! 
The  dull  sky  dizzy  with  swirling  snow, 
Keen  pierces  the  cold,  but  your  brave  notes  flow 

Warmly,  happily, 

Chickadee! 

Forgetting  the  aches  of  a  world  grown  gray, 

1  shut  my  eyes  and  dream  of  the  May, 

Hearing  you,  chickadee! 
There's  a  birdsong  for  every  month  of  the  year 
But  when  others  are  silent  you  voice  good  cheer, 

Genuine  poetry. 

Chickadee ! 

The  song  sparrow  sings  the  whole  year  through. 
But  even  he  yields,  in  winter,  to  you, 

Neighborly  chickadee^ 
Oh,  worth  the  spring's  full  chorus  of  praise, 
Your  lyric  that  lives  in  the  dead,  white  days! 

Welcome  your  winter  glee, 

Chickadee! 

Stoksly  S.  Fisher  . 


OUR  LITTLE  CHEF 

OUR  readers  may  notice  that  we 
are  trying  to  restore  the  figure  of 
the  little  Chef  that  used  to  appear  quite 
conspicuously  on  the  pages  of  this 
magazine  Oldtime  readers  may  recall 
the  original  cover  pages  of  the  maga- 
zine in  green  and  red,  which  always 
carried  the  profile  of  the  cheerful  chef. 
Somehow,  we  can  not  reason  why, 
in  changing  covers,  we  dropped  out 
the  use  of  the  chef,  though  it  had  come 
to  be  regarded  as  a  kind  of  trade  mark. 
Now  we  propose  to  give  the  illustration 
place  again,  occasionally  at  least,  and 
to  make  use  of  it,  as  formerly,  somewhat 
as  the  trade  mark  or  symbol  of  our 
profession. 


Never  was  so  much  attention  given 
to  the  conditions  of  health  as  at  pre- 
sent. Preventive  methods  are  pursued 
by  both  physician  and  surgeon.  Pre- 
liminary to  attendance  at  public  schools, 
children's  eyes  are  tested,  teeth  are 
inspected  and  throats  are  examined 
for  signs  of  disorder  and  ill  health. 
And  these  things  are  taken  into  con- 
sideration in  connection  with  the  pros- 
pects of  the  futtu"e  progress  and  wel- 
fare of  the  child.  Epidemics,  we  have 
learned,  are  sure  to  follow  violations 
of  nature's  laws.  Contagious  diseases 
must  be  wiped  out.  We  can  ill  afford 
to  tolerate  a  single  menace  to  the 
healthfulness  of  individual  or  com- 
munity life.  In  all  pure  food  laws 
and  sanitary  regulations  protection  from 
threatening  ills  is  sought  for.  The 
chief  evils  we  have  to  contend  with 
are   imcleanliness   and   malnutrition. 

THE  HOMECRAFT  COURSE 

IN  the  homecraft  course^  recently 
instituted  in  the  Wadleigh  High 
School,  New  York  City,  is  an  inter- 
esting attempt  to  meet  practical  de- 
mands in  girls*  education.  The  home- 
craft course  is  for  girls  whose  interest 
is   in   up-to-date   home-making   rather 


EDITORIALS 


367 


than  in  advanced  literary  or  scientific 
study.  The  work  is  taken  chiefly  by 
students  who  do  not  intend  to  go  to 
college,  but  who  wish  to  make  the 
best  use  of  their  time  while  in  high 
school;  and  it  is  particularly  recom- 
mended for  those  who  expect  to  stay 
in  school  only  two  years  or  less. 

The  course  is  both  "practical"  and 
"cultural."  It  answers  the  everyday 
needs  of  girls  who  mean  to  be  real 
home-keepers  and  it  affords  abimdant 
opportunity  for  studies  that  are  for 
enjoyment  as  well  as  for  work.  Domes- 
tic science  and  domestic  art,  with  house- 
hold arithmetic,  study  of  vocations, 
"clothing  —  its  care  and  remodeling," 
are  prominent  subjects  the  first  year. 
Drawing,  music,  biology,  English,  and 
physical  training  are  required  subjects, 
with  current  history,  English  history, 
and  modem  languages  among  the  elec- 
tives.  Latin  and  advanced  mathemapes 
are  conspicuous  by  their  absence. 

In  the  second  year  hygiene  and  sani- 
tation are  added  to  the  requirements, 
and  other  studies  may  be  chosen  from 
a  list  which  includes  millinery,  house- 
hold chemistry,  European  and  American 
history,  history  of  women's  work,  arts 
and  crafts,  and  modem  languages. 

Household  management,  a  required 
study,  is  a  feature  of  the  third  year 
of  the  course.  Applied  design  and 
applied  physics  are  among  the  subjects 
that  may  be  selected  by  the  students. 
In  the  fourth  year  the  girls  delve  a 
little  deeper  into  the  philosophy  of 
homecraft  by  means  of  a  required  course 
on  social  efficiency.  They  may  also 
regale  themselves  with  a  number  of 
more  advanced  studies,  such  as:  Fun- 
damentals of  legal  procedure;  physiology, 
bacteriology,  and  sanitation;  household 
design  and  decoration. 

Throughout  the  course  the  emphasis 
is  on  applied,  rather  than  theoretical 
knowledge;  and  the  work  is  so  arranged 
that,  regardless  of  whether  a  girl  com- 
pletes the  four-year  course  or  leaves 
before   $he   finishes,  she   has   acquired 


a  fund  of  workable  ideas  of  direct  value 
to  her  in  the  immediate  problems  of 
her  life. 

THE  HEALTH  HABIT 

IP  a  man  is  sick  it  is  because  he  has 
violated  the  laws  of  Nature.  And 
such  a  one,  instead  of  feeling  disgraced, 
often  feels  sorry  for  himself  and  explains 
his  sad  plight  to  any  one  and  every 
one  who  will  listen. 

Man  is  made  to  be  well  and  happy 
and  useful.  And  if  a  person  is  happy, 
the  probabilities  are  he  will  be  well; 
and  in  order  to  keep  well  he  has  to 
be  useful. 

Health  is  the  most  natural  thing 
in  the  world. 

Nature  is  on  our  side.  Health  is 
the  norm,  and  all  Nature  tends  thither- 
ward. 

Physicians  nowadays  do  not  talk 
about  curing  people.  All  the  wise 
and  good  physician  cati^  do  is  to  put 
the  patient  in  line  with  Nature.  Nature 
heals,  and  all  the  healing  forces  of  Nature 
are  perfectly  natural. 

We  know  the  rules  of  health.  Every 
one  of  common  intelligence  is  familiar 
with  them.  The  trouble  is  that  many 
men  consider  themselves  exceptions; 
and  postponed  punishment,  does  not 
deter  them  from  violating  the .  laws 
of  Nature. 

We  must  not  only  know  the  rules 
of  health  and  bear  them  in  mind,  but 
we  must  bring  to  bear  will  to  see  that 
we  live  them. 

We  have  the  knowledge,  but  we  lack 
the  technique — tlj^t  is  to  say,  we  haven't 
got  the  habit. 

Health  is  a  habit,  and  a  vast  niunber 
of  people  in  America  are  getting  it. 
They  make  it  their  business  to  be  well 
every  day  and  all  the  time,  an4  the  rules 
whereby  they  succeed  are  endorsed 
by  every  physician.  First,  think  health, 
not  disease. 

Keep  your  mind  on  the  ideal,  and 
picture  the  strong,  happy,  self-reliant 
person  that  you  would  like  to  be. 


368 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Breathe  deeply  in  the  open  air, 
holding  the  breath,  then  expelling  it 
slowly  thru'  the  nostrils.  As  a  people, 
we  eat  about  one-third  more  than 
we  really  need,  and  so  our  energies 
are  consumed  in  getting  rid  of  the 
waste. 

The  greatest  disturber  of  health  is 
fear.  Fear  means  impaired  circulation; 
impaired  circulation  means  impaired 
digestion;  imperfect  digestion  affects 
the  entire  program  of  Ufe.  To  elimin- 
ate fear  we  must  breathe  more  and  eat 
less;  work  more  and  loaf  less;  praise 
more  and  scold  less;  love  more  and 
hate  less. 

Get  the  Health  Habit,  and  associate 
with  people  who  have  it.  It's  con- 
tagious.— The  Philistine, 

The  Pious  Author's  Litany 

From  all  over-estimate  of  our  liter- 
ary work,  and  from  all  belittling  of 
the  work  of  others: 

Good  Lord,  deliver  us ! 

From  all  petty  jealousies,  enmities, 
and  unwillingness  to  appreciate  excel- 
lence in  the  work  of  others : 

Good  Lord,  deliver  us! 

From  all  literary  pride,  vainglory, 
and  narrow  judgment: 

Good  Lord,  deliver  us  I 

From  all  conspicuous  failure  to  attain 
our  literary  ideals,  and  from  all  failure 
to  recognize  the  ideals  of  others: 

Good  Lord,  deliver  us ! 

'From  all  smug  satisfaction  with  purely 
mercenary  aims,  and  from  all  tempta- 
tion to  rest  content  with  a  measure 
of  attainment  distinctly  beneath  that 
of  which  we  know  'oiu^elves  to  be 
capable: 

Good  Lord,  deliver  us ! 

Oscar  Fay  Adams. 
In  Christian  Register. 

Good  Food  —  Not  Gluttony 

IT  is  amusing,  though  somewhat  dis- 
heartening, to  find  how  widely  the 
idea  still  persists  that  delicacy  in  cook- 
ery ,means  gluttony.     Those  people  who 


really  appreciate  perfection  in  cookery 
are  usually  delicate  eaters,  who  manage 
to  get  both  reasonable  enjoyment  and 
excellent  nourishment  out  of  a  com- 
paratively little  food.  It  is  often  the 
man  who  professes  a  profound  contempt 
for  the  art  of  the  kitchen  who  proves  a 
gluttonous  feeder.  He  generally  eats 
voraciously,  not  wisely.  Yet  the  con- 
trary opinion  is  frequently  held.  For 
instance,  only  the  other  day,  I  saw  in 
one  of  the  London  dailies  a  note  by  a 
journalist  who  had  asked  one  of  our 
leading  caterers  whether  the  English 
as  a  race  eat  too  much,  the  answer  being 
"No,  but  they  prefer  a  chop,  steak,  or 
other  substantial  fare  to  the  various 
mysteries  so  dear  to  foreigners,  who 
doubtless  think  that  a  seven-course 
dinner  provides  them  with  a  lot  for  their 
money."  Of  course  this  is  quite  incor- 
rect. The  foreigner  is  educated  in  the 
art  of  eating,  and  knows  that  by  making 
large  use  of  stewing  and  sauces  the 
palate  is  pleased,  and  the  body  better 
nourished,  with  a  smaller  consumption 
of  food,  because  the  viands  are  made 
more  digestible,  and  therefore  satisfying. 
And  therein  lies  the  secret  of  good 
cooking.  —  Food  and  Cookery, 


Health  is  the  most  precious  possession 
of  man.  Health  is  the  only  capital  of 
the  workingman.  Without  health,  the 
workingman  is  of  no  use  to  his  employer. 
Without  health,  life  to  the  employe  is 
not  worth  living.  Therefore,  the  preser- 
vation of  health  is  the  most  important 
consideration  of  the  worker. 


If  you  would  make  repair  equal  to 
waste,  cut  out  grouch,  hate,  worry, 
jealousy  and  fear,  and  focus  on  work 
play,  love,  and  usefulness.  —  Doctor 
F.  M.  Planck. 

Kindly  renew  your  subscription  by 
sending  a  year's  subscription  to  two 
of  yoiu"  friends  who  will  be  pleased 
with  the  gift.  A  Christmas  card  will 
be  mailed  with  the  December  nimiber. 


LETTUCE,  DATE- AND- PEC  AN  NUT  SALAD 


Seasonable  Recipes 

By  Janet  M.  Hill 

IN  all  recipes  where  flour  is  used,  unless  otherwise  stated,  the  flour  is  measured  after 
sifting  once.  Where  flour  is  measured  by  cups,  the  cup  is  filled  with  a  spoon,  and  a 
level  cupful  is  meant.  A  tablespoonful  or  teaspoonful  of  any  designated  material  is  a 
LEVEL  spoonful. 

stir  and  cook  without  letting  them 
take  color;  when  the  butter  is  absorbed, 
add  one  pint  of  boiling  water  and  cook 
until  the  vegetables  are  tender;  press 
through  a  sieve,  add  one  quart  of  white 
stock  {chicken  or  veal)  and  heat  to 
the  boiling  point.  Pile  about  a  cup 
of  crisp  spinach  leaves  together  and 
cut  them  in  ribbons.  Melt  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  add  the  spinach  and 
let  cook  until  tender,  stirring  often. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs;  add  half 
a  cup  of  cream  and  half  a  cup  of  milk 
and  stir  into  the  soup;  continue  to 
stir  until  the  egg  thickens,  but  do  not 
let  boil.  Season  as  needed  and  add  the 
spinach. 

Cauliflower  Soup 
Cook  a  large  cauliflower  in  boiling 
salted  water;  drain  and  press  through 
a  fine  sieve  (do  not  discard  the  green 
leaves  but  press  the  whole  through 
the    sieve).     Put    one    pint,    each,    of 


Sardines  a  la  Tartare 

HAVE  ready  strips  of  bread, 
toasted  or  fried,  a  little  larger 
on  all  sides  than  the  sardines 
to  be  served.  Remove  the  skin  and 
bones  without  disturbing  the  shape  of 
the  fish.  Spread  the  bread  with  a 
little  sauce  tartare,  set  the  fish  above 
and  coat  it  neatly  with  more  of  the 
sauce.  Garnish  the  edge  with  a  row 
of  capers,  and  push  a  branch  of  water- 
cress under  the  bread  at  each  end. 
Sauce  tartare  is  mayonnaise  dressing, 
to  one  cup  of  which  two  tablespoon- 
fuls,  each,  of  very  fine-chopped  onion, 
capers,  parsley  and  pickles  have  been 
added. 

Swedish  Soup 

Peel  three  (not  too  large)  potatoes 
and  one  onion  and  cut  them  in  slices. 
Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in 
a  saucepan,  put  in  the  vegetables  and 


370 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


water  in  which  the  cauliflower  was 
cooked  and  chicken  broth  and  one 
cup  of  milk  over  the  fire;  when  boiling 
stir  in  half  a  cup  of  potato  flour  or 
cornstarch  smoothed  in  half  a  cup  of 
milk;  stir  until  boiling,  then  let  simmer 
very,  gently  fifteen  minutes.  Add  the 
pur^e,  a  teaspoonful  or  more  of  salt 
and  half  a  cup  of  cream.  Let  become 
very  hot,  but  do  not  let  boil,  lest  the 
soup  curdle. 

Inexpensive    Vegetable    Soup 

Cut  one  onion,  one  carrot  and  one 


keep  the  oysters  hot.  Melt  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter;  in  it  cook  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  one-fourth, 
a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  pepper; 
add  the  cup  of  the  oyster  broth  and 
stir  until  boiling.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs;  add  half  a  cup  of  cream  and 
stir  into  the  sauce;  let  cook  without 
boiling;  add  the  oysters,  a  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  juice  and  more  seasoning 
if  needed.  Serve  on  crackers,  or  on 
toast,  or  in  patty  or  Swedish  timbale 
cases. 

Broiled  Oysters 


STUFFED  CABBAGE 


stalk  of  firm  celery  into  Julienne  strips; 
let  cook  in  boiling  water  or  stock  to 
cover  until  tender;  add  three  cups  of 
broth  from  giblets  etc.  and  let  boil; 
stir  one-third  a  cup  of  flour  with  milk 
to  a  smooth,  thin  paste,  then  stir 
into  the  vegetables  and  let  simmer 
fifteen  minutes;  add  a  cup  and  a  half 
of  milk,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
in  little  bits,  and  salt  and  pepper 
as  needed.  Have  ready  a  dish  of  small 
cubes  of  bread  fried  in  deep  fat  and 
drained  on  soft  paper.  Serve  hot  with 
the  soup 

Oysters,  Poulette  Style 
Heat  one  pint  of  oysters  to  the  boil- 
ing   point,    strain    off    the    broth    and 


Pour  cold  water  over  the  oysters* 
examine  each  one  separately  to  remove 
shell,  and  roll  them  in  flour  or  in  sifted 
rolled  crackers  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Beat  two  eggs;  add  a  tea- 
spoonful of  Worcestershire  sauce,  a 
teaspoonful  of  prepared  mustard  and 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  strained  oyster 
liquor;  in  this  dip  the  oysters,  one 
by  one,  and  at  once  roll  in  sifted  cracker 
crumbs;  set  in  an  oyster  broiler,  heated 
and  thoroughly  oiled,  and  let  cook 
over  a  moderate  fire  until  the  oysters 
are  delicately  browned.  Dispose  on 
toast;  set  a  bit  of  maitre  d'hfitel  butter 
above  each  oyster.  Garnish  with  pars- 
ley and  slices  of  lemon  and  serve  at 
once. 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


Maitre  d' Hotel  Butter 
Beat  one-fourth  of  a  cup  butter  to  a 


Salmon  Cutlets,  Pojarski  Style 
Chop  fine  one  pound  of  raw  salmon; 


SPARERIBS  OP  FRESH 

cream;  beat  in  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful, 
each,  of  salt  and  paprika,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  fine-chopped  parsley  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  a  drop 
at  a  time. 

Creamed  Salt  Codfish,  Poulette 
Pick  tenderloins  of  salt  cod-fish  in 
thin,  small  bits  to  fill  a  cup;  cover  with 
cold  water  and  let  stand  overnight; 
set  over  the  fire  in  same  water  and 
let  heat  slowly  till  water  looks  milky 
(do  not  let  boil),  and  drain;  melt  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  in  it  cook 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  Hour,  then  add 
one  cup  of  milk  and  stir  until  boil- 
ing; add  the  fish  from  which  the  water 
has  been  drained  and  beat  in  one  egg, 
beaten  very  light;  stir  imtil  the  egg 
thickens,  but  do  not  let  boil.  Serve 
with  hot  baked  or  boiled  potatoes 


PORK,  WITH  ONIONS 

beat  half  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream 
and  gradually  beat  and  rub  this  into 
the  fish;  beat  in,  also,  one*£ourth  a 
cup  of  double  cream,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  and  one-fourth  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  paprika.  Let  chill  a  little, 
then  shape  into  one  dozen  cutlets. 
The  mixture  can  be  shaped  very  easily. 
Beat  one  egg,  add  four  teaspoonfuJs 
of  milk,  and  mix  thoroughly;  in  this 
dip  the  cutlets  and  at  once  roll  in 
sifted  soft  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep 
fat.     Serve  tomato  sauce  in  a  bowl. 

Finnan  Haddie  Croquettes 
Finnan  haddie  all  ready  cooked  can 
be  purchased;  or  an  uncooked  fish 
may  be  set  on  the  back  of  the  range 
in  cold  water  to  cover;  let  heat  slowly 
to  boiling  point,  then  draw  to  a  cooler 
part    of   the   range    to    stand    half   an 


372  THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL-MAGAZINE 

hour  without  boiling;  then  remove  a  casserole,  set  the  cabbage  on  the 
from  the  fire  and  pick  in  bits.  For  vegetables,  pour  in  a  cup  or  more  of 
a  generous  pint  of  fish,  make  a  cream     broth   or   boiling   water   and   let   cook 


LITTLE   PUMPKIN  PIES 


sauce  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of  but- 
ter, four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one 
cup  of  milk  and  one-fourth  a  cup 
of  cream;  add  the  fish,  an  egg,  beaten 
light,  and  let  cook  over  hot  water 
until  the  egg  is  set;  season  as  needed; 
turn  on  to  a  buttered  plate;  when 
cold  shape,  egg-and-bread  crumb  and 
fry  in  dee  fat.  Serve  with  Chinese 
celery,  cut  into  shreds  and  dressed 
with  oil,  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper. 

Stuffed  Cabbage 
Select  a  firm  head  of  cabbage,  trim 
off  imperfect  outer  leaves,  cover  with 
boiling  water  and  let  cook  twenty 
minutes;  drain,  cover  with  cold  water, 
then  press  out  the  water  and  wipe  on 
a  towel.  Cut  out  a  round  place  around 
the  stalk  to  leave  an  open  space.  Sea- 
son inside  with  salt  and  pepper.  Take, 
for  a  large  cabbage,  a  pound  of  sau- 
sage; mix  with  two  cups  of  soft,  fine 
bread  crumbs  and  salt  and  pepper 
as  needed.  Use  to  M  the  cabbage. 
Tie  a  string  around  the  cabbage,  to 
hold  it  in  shape;  set  a  slice  of  salt 
pork  above  the  sausage.  Slice  an  onion 
and    half   a   carrot,    sprinkle    these   in 


LITTLE  POUND  CAKES 


in  a  slow  oven  about  one  hour.  Re- 
move the  cabbage  to  a  serving  dish; 
strain  off  the  broth,  thicken  it  with 
two  tesapoonfuls  of  Sour,  smoothed 
in  cold  water,  and  pour  around  the 
cabbage.  A  dozen  or  more  small  or 
large  chestnuts,  shelled,  blanched  and 
cooked  nearly  tender,  may  be  mixed 
through  the  filling  of  the  cabbage. 
The  time  of  cooking  indicated  is  for 
early  cabbage;  winter  cabbage  will 
take  at  least  half  an  hour  longer  cook- 
ing. 

Spareribs  of  Fresh  Pork,  with 
Onions 
Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth, 
rub  over  with  salt  and  flour,  and  set 
to  cook  in  a  moderate  oven.  Let 
cook  about  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound; 
baste  often  with  the  dripping  and 
dredge  with  flour  after  each  basting. 
Serve  with  onions,  boiled  until  begin- 
ning to  be  tender,  then  set  around 
the  pork  in  the  pan  to  finish  cooking. 
Baste  the  onions  when  the  meat  is 
basted. 

Ham  Baked  with  Cider 

Let  a  choice  ham  stand  covered  with 
cold  water  over  night;  drain  and  set 
over  the  fire  in  a  fresh  supply  of  cold 
water;  let  heat  slowly  to  the  boiling 
point,  then  simmer  four  hours.  Re- 
move the  ham  to  a  deep  baking  pan, 
take  off  the  skin,  pour  over  one  pint 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES., 


of  the  liquid  in  which  it  was  cooked 
and  one  quart  of  hot  cider;  baste 
each  ten  minutes  and  let  cook  until 
the  bones  in  the  shin  may  be  turned. 
Serve  hot  with  a  dish  of  spinach, 
chopped  and  mixed  with  a  small  quan- 
tity of  cream  sauce,  about  half  a  cup 
to  a  generous  pint  of  spinach.  For 
sauce,  skim  off  the  fat  from  the  liquid 
in  the  baking  pan.  Take  one  cup 
of  this  liquid,  one  cup  of  rich  brown 
stock  and  thicken  with  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  flour  cooked  in  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  butter;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  stir  in  one-fourth  a  cup 
of  currant  jelly. 

The  first  part  of  the  cooking  may 
be  done  overnight  in  a  fireless  cooker. 
Apple  sauce,  apple-and-celery  salad  or 
cabbage  salad  are  all  appropriate  with 
ham. 

Creamed  Carrots 
Cut  carrots,  after  scraping,  into  slices 
or  Julienne  strips;  let  boil  in  boiling 
water  until  tender;  drain,  and  for  one 
pint  of  carrot  melt  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter;  in  it  cook  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful, 
each,  of  paprika  and  sugar;  add  one 
cup  and  a  half  of  milk  and  stir  until 
boiling,  then  add  the  carrots. 


Christmas  Salad 

Take  sections  of  grapefruit  pulp, 
one-half  the  measure  of  tender  inner 
stalks  of  celery,  cut  in  bits,  one-half 
the  measure  of  small  cubes  of  apple, 
mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice  to  keep  them  from  discoloring, 
and  about  three  tablespoonfuls  of  can- 
died cherries,  cooked  tender  and  cut 
in  slices.  Season  with  oil,  lemon  juice 
and  salt.  For  a  pint  of  material  use 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  oU,  one  of  lemon 
juice  and  a  scant  half-teaspoonful 
of  salt.  Garnish  with  a  small  por- 
tion of  mayonnaise  dressing 

Lettuce,  Date- and- Pecan  Nut 
Salad 


RASPBERRY  SYLLABUB 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Pour  boiling  water  over  a  pound 
of  dates,  stir  well,  then  skim  out  the 
dates  to  an  agate  plate;  set  the  plate 


POINSETTIA  CAKES 

in  the  oven  to  dry  the  dates,  then 
cut  each  in  four  or  five  lengthwise 
strips,  discarding  the  seeds.  Cut  the 
half-meats  in  half  a  pound  of  shelled 
pecan  nuts  in  three  pieces,  each. 
season  separately,  or  together,  with 
half  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and 
paprika,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar or  lemon  juice  and  six  tablespoon- 
fuls of  oil.  Serve  in  a  border  of  heart 
leaves  of  lettuce.  Serve  at  luncheon 
or  supper  with  Graham  or  ryemeal 
bread  and  butter.  Mayonnaise  or  cream 
dressing  may  replace  the  French  dress- 
ing. For  the  cream  dressing,  beat 
one  cup  of  double  cream,  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  and  one- 
fourth  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt 
and  paprika  until  firm  throughout. 
Season  the  dates  and  nuts  slightly 
with  salt  and  pepper  before  adding 
the  dressing. 


Little  Pumpkin  Pies 

Cut  a  pared  pumpkin  in  inch-cubes, 
and  steam  until  done;  let  dry  over  a  hot 
fire  in  a  colander,  then  press  through 
a  sieve  or  ricer.  To  a  cup  and  a  half 
of  sifted  pumpkin,  add  half  a  cup 
of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses, 
two  eggs,  beaten  without  separating 
the  whites  and  yolks  (one  egg  and 
one- third  a  cup  of  cracker  crumbs 
may  be  used) ,  one  tablespoonf ul  of 
ginger,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter 
and  one  cup  of  rich  milk,  and  turn  into 
small  tins  lined  with  pastry.  Bake 
about  twenty-fiveminutes.  Serve,  turned 
from  the  tins,  reheated  a  little  and 
decorated  with  whipped  cream.  Sweeten 
the  cream  slightly  and  flavor  with 
a  few  drops  of  almond  or  vanilla  extract. 

Frozen  Pudding,  Bombe  Style 
Boil  one  pint  of  water  and  one 
cup  of  sugar  ten  minutes,  after  boiling 
begins;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  gela- 
tine softened  in  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  cold  water,  and  when  cold  one  cup 
of  canned  raspberry  juice  (unsweetened). 
and  freeze.  Make  a  boiled  custard 
of  three  cups  of  rich  milk,  six  yolks 
of  eggs  and  one  cup  of  sugar;  when 
cold  begin  to  freeze;  when  half  frozen 
add  one  cup  of  cream,  beaten  light  but 
not  dry,  and  one  cup  of  fruit,  cherries 


FRUITAND-NUT  CHRISTMAS  CAKES 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


GRAHAM   CRACKER  CAKE 


in  small  pieces,  raisins,  currants,  pieces 
o£  candied  pineapple,  etc.,  that  have 
been  soaked  several  hours  in  rich 
syrup  or  rum.  The  raisins  and  cur- 
rants will  be  better  if  cooked  tender 
first  of  ail-  Finish  freezing  the  mix- 
ture. Line  a  melon-mold  with  the 
raspberry  sherbet;  leave  enough  of 
the  sherbet  to  spread  over  the  pudding; 
fill  in  the  center  of  the  mold  with 
the  pudding  mixture,  spread  on  the 
rest  of  the  sherbet,  cover  with  paper 
and  with  the  cover  of  the  mold.  Let 
stand  packed  in  three  measures  of 
crushed  ice  and  one  of  salt  an  hour 
or  longer. 

Salambo 

Cut  a  grapefruit  in  halves,  cross- 
wise. With  a  thin,  sharp  knife,  cut 
around  the  pulp  in  each  little  section 


of  the  fruit  so  that  the  whole  of  each 
triangular  section  of  pulp  may  be  freed 
from  the  surrounding  membrane  and 
lifted  out  when  eaten.  Also  cut  the 
membrane,  separating  the  sections  and 
the  core  from  the  skin  and  remove 
all  the  membrane  and  the  pithy  cen- 
ter in  one  piece.  Dispose  the  halves 
of  fruit  in  grapefruit  glasses,  then  set 
a  circle  or  wreath  of  red  bar-le-duc 
currants  around  the  center  of  each. 
Powdered  sugar  may  be  sprinkled  over 
the  fruit  before  the  preserve  is  set 
in  place,  but  will  be  superfluous  for 
most  tastes. 

Grape  Juice  or  Raspberry  Syllabub 
Mix  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  cup 
and  a  half  of  raspberry  or  grape  juice 
and  three-fourths  a  cup  of  sugar;  when 
the   sugar   is   dissolved,   add   one   pint 


SMALL  GRAHAM  CRACKER  CAKES 


376 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


of  double  cream  and  beat  with  a  whip- 
chum.  Stir  down  the  first  froth  that 
rises,  then  skim  off  the  froth  to  a  sieve 
to  drain.  Turn  the  un whipped  mix- 
ture into  glasses  and  pile  the  froth 
above.  Serve,  thoroughly  chilled,  with 
sponge  cake  or  wafers,  as  a  dessert  dish. 

Little  Pound  Cakes 
Beat  one-third  a  cup  of  butter  to 
a  cream;  beat  in  half  a  cup  of  sugar, 
two  egg-yolks,  beaten  light,  half  a 
tablespoonful  of  brandy  or  milk,  three- 
fourths  a  cup  of  sifted  flour,  sifted  again 
with  half  a  level  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful 
of  mace.  Lastly,  add  the  whites  of 
two,  eggs,  beaten  dry.  Beat  the,  mix- 
ture thoroughly.  Dispose  the  mixture 
in  very  small  tins;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  Spread  a  little  confectioner's 
frosting  on  the  center  of  each  and 
decorate  the  frosting  with  a  bit  or  slice 
of  candied  cherry. 

Poinsettia  Wafers 

Beat  half  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream; 
gradually  beat  in  one  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar  and  the  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  half  a  lemon,  the  beaten  yolks 
of  two  eggs  and  the  white  of  one, 
beaten  dry,  and,  lastly,  flour  to  make 
a  dough.  Take  the  dough  on  the  board 
{magic  cover  is  best),  a  little  at  a  time, 
knead   slightly,  roll   into   a   sheet,   and 


cut  into  shapes  as  desired.  A  cut- 
let cutter  was  used  for  the  wafers  shown 
in  the  illustration.  Set  the  shapes 
in  a  buttered  pan.  brush  over  with 
the  white  of  an  egg,  beaten  slightly, 
decorate  with  strips  of  angelica  or 
citron  and  candied  or  maraschino  cher- 
ries to  represent  a  poinsettia.  Dredge 
with  granulated  sugar.  Bake  to  a 
delicate  straw-color. 

Fruit-and-Nut  Christmas  Cakes 
Beat  half  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream ; 
beat  in  one  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup, 
each,  of  chopped  raisins  and  chopped 
nuts,  two  eggs,  beaten  light  without 
separating  the  whites  and  yolks,  half 
a  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
flour  sifted  again  with  two  and  one- 
half  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der. Bake  in  small  tins.  Decorate 
with  boiled  frosting,  small,  red  candies 
chopped  pistachio  nuts  (green)  and 
a  red  candle  in  a  holder. 

Graham  Cracker  Cake(Miss  Reece) 
Beat  half  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream, 
gradually  beat  in  one  cup  of  granulated 
sugar,  then  the  beaten  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sweet  milk, 
one  pound  of  Graham  Crackers,  rolled 
fine  and  sifted,  then  mixed  with  two 
slightly  rounding  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder,  and,  lastly,  the  whites  of  three 
Continued  on   Page  396 


AFTER  DINNER  COFFEE.  LIBRARY   SERVICE 


Balanced  Menus  for  One  Week  in  December 

An^  causes  which  increase  the  burden  of  securing  adequate  nourishment  strike  a  blow  at 
Nature* s  vital  powers^ — Jo r  dan  . 


< 
Q 
Z 

en 


Breakfast 

Corned  Beef  Hash 

Fried  Mush 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Coffee  Honey  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Swedish  Soup 

Ham  Baked  with  Cider 

Hot  Apple  Sauce  Chinese  Celery 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Southern  Style 
Little  Pumpkin  Pies,  Whipped  Cream 

Coffee 

Supper 

Boiled  Rice,  Butter,  Sugar 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit,  Reheated 

Canned  Fruit 

Fruit-and-Nut  Cakes 

Tea 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Sausage  Cooked  in  Oven 

tried  Bananas 

Parker  House  Rolls,  Reheated 

Buckwheat  Cakes,  Maple  Syrup 

Coffee  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Simple  Vegetable  Soup 
Roast  Spareribs  of  Pork 

Hot  Apple  Sauce  Mashed  Potatoes 

Boiled  Onions,  Buttered 

Cranberry-and- Raisin  Pie  (Mock  Cherry) 

Coffee 

Supper 

Hot  flam  Sandwiches 
Apple  Sauce 
Small  Graham-Cracker  Cakes 


Tea 


< 
Q 

O 
S 


> 
< 
Q 

H 


< 

Q 

< 


Breakfast 

Fried  Salt  Pork  (dipped  in  boiling  water,  then 

in  flour,  cooked  slowly  till  crisp) 

Small  Potatoes,  Baked 

Coffee         Commeal  Muffins         Cocoa 

Dinner 

Simple  Vegetable  Soup 

Cold  Baked  Ham,  Sliced  Thin 

Mustard 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Hot  Spinach  Brown  Betty 

Coffee 

Supper 

Cheese  Pudding,  with  Pimientos 
Cold  Spinach,  Sauce  Tartare 
Cornmeal  Muffins,  Toasted 
.  Orange  Marmalade  Tea 


Breakfast 

Sliced  Pineapple  (canned) 

Frizzled  Dried  Beef 
Hashed  Brown  Potatoes  ^  * 

Boston   Brown   Bread   (Reheated  in  Oven) 
Coffee  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Mock  Bisque  Soup 

Cold  Spareribs  of  Pork 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes        Celery 

Floating  Island 

Coffee 

Supper 

Broiled  Oysters,  Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter 

Quick  Yeast  Rolls  Celery 

Cajined  Fruit  Ginger  Snaps 

Tea 


Breakfast 

Salt  Mackerel  Cooked  in  Milk 
*  White  Hashed  Potatoes 
Dry  Toast  Baked  Apples 

Coffee  ,         Doughnuts  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Hamburg  or  Swiss  Steak 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Squash 

Baked  Tapioca  Pudding,  Vanilla  Sauce 

Coffee 

Supper 

Ham  Ramekins 

Parker  House  Rolls         Stewed  Crabapples 

New  York  Gingerbread 

Tea 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Creamed  Salt  Codfish,  Poulette 

Small  Baked  Potatoes  Diy  Toast 

Coffee         Orange  Doughnuts         Cocoa 

Dinner 

Finnan  Haddie  CrcJquettes 

Sliced  Potatoes  Cooked  in  Milk 

Brussels  Sprouts 

Delmonico  Pudding,  with  Canned  Peaches 

Coffee 

Supper 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit  (whole  wheat  flour) 

Sweet  Apples,  Baked  Neufchatel  Cheese 

Toasted  Crackers  Tea 


O 

'7) 

o 
> 
< 


H 

a 
> 


a 
> 


Breakfast 

Cold  Corned  Beef,  Sliced  Thin 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes 

Fried  Mush,  Molasses 

Dry  Toast 
Coffee  Cocoa 


Dinner 

Shoulder  of  Lamb,  Boiled 

Caper  Sauce 

Boiled  Potatoes 

Boiled  Turnips 

Prunes  Stuffed  with  Nuts 

Cream  Coffee 

377 


Supper 

Sardines 

Dried  Lima  Bean  Salad 

Hot  Boston  Brown  Bread 

Cookies 

Tea 


*  Menus  for  Christmas  Dinners 


INSTITUTION 
I. 

Mock  Bisque  Soup  II> 

Spareribs  of  Pork  ^^^  Soup 

Apple  Sauce  „      gaked  Ham,  Cidv  Sauce 
Onions  tn  Cream  ^ppj^  Sauce,  Cole  Slaw 

XM    i,rl"l?^  »  Sweet  Poutoes,  Southern  Style 

Mashed  Potatoes  Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Mince  Pie  Cheese^  EnglUh  Plum  Puddmg,  Hard  and  Liquid  Sauces 

Vaw'la,J|B^Cream        "  ^^^^       *''^'*  Raisins 

Nuts  Raisins 

^  ^     ^ 

CHRISTMAS  DINNER.  OUT  OF  THE  ORDINARY 

Canopy  of  Tomato  Jelly  with  Caviare 
Crescent    Olives        Salted    Cashew    Nuts 
Mushroom  Consomm^ 
Deviled  Crusts 
Broiled  Smelts,  Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter 

Cucumber  Salad 

(with    minute    pearl    onions   and    parsley) 

Chicken  Giblet  Vol-au-Vent 

Currant  Jelly 

French  Peas 

Young  Goslings,  Roasted 

Chinese   Celery,    Prune,   Apple-and-Nut   Salad 

Potatoes  Scalloped,  with  Re<l  and  Green  Peppers 

Onions  Stuffed  with  Creamed  Brussels  Sprouts 

Mince  Pie,  with  Apple  Meringu^ 

Frozen  Pudding,  Bomb£  Style 

Mandarin  Oranges  Lady  Apples 

Bonbons  Coffee 

•*  ^  ^ 

A  GOOD  ORDINARY  CHRISTMAS  DINNER 

Cream  of  Celery  or  Oyster  Soup 

Roast  Goose,  Bread  Dressing 

Hot  Apple  Sauce 

Mashed  Potatoes  Buttered  Onions 

Celery  Hearts 

Mince  Turnovers 

English  Plum  Pudding,  Hard  and  Liauid  Sauces 

Table  Raisins  Assorted  Nuts 

Christmas  Candy 

Coffee 

^  ^  ^ 

AN  EPICUREAN  CHRISTMAS  DINNER 

Oyster  Cocktail 
Chicken  Consomm6  with  Asparagus  Tips 

,  Lobster  Newburgh  en  Cocotte 
Roasted  Capon         Black  Currant  orGuava  Jelly 
Chestnut  Croquettes 
French  Fried  Sweet  Potatoes 

Buttered  Brussels  Sprouts, 
Chinese -Celery        Cheese        Toasted  Crackers 

Coffee 
Nuts        Raisins        Bonbons 

378 


Remodeling  the  Conventional  Christmas  Dinner 

By  Jessamine  Chapman  Williams 


AMERICAN  customs  are  becom- 
ing more  distinctive  and  char- 
acteristic. We  like  otir  own 
ways  of  doing  things.  We  have  fixed 
ideas  regarding  our  holiday  celebrations, 
which  are  typically  American.  The 
American '  Christmas  celebration  is  be- 
coming a  distinctive  one,  and  while 
we  are  beginning  to  prefer  the  same 
conventional  Christmas  dinner  and 
Christmas  dishes,  year  after  year,  little 
surprises  and  variations  in  the  menu 
gives  an  added  delight  to  the  Christmas 
festivities.  The  same  food  may  be 
served,  perhaps,  but  in  a  new  dress. 
The  following  Christmas  Menu  is  the 
one  usually  served  in  thousands  of 
homes,  but  this  may  be  changed  by 
slight  variations  without  offending  the 
time-honored  customs  and  conditions 
now  so  thoroughly  established. 

The  Usual  or  Conventional  Menu 

Oysters  on  the  half  shell. 

Consomme        Salted  Wafers 

Celery  Olives 

Roast  Turkey  —  Plain  Dressing 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Squash  Creamed  Onions 

Cranberry  Jelly 

Boiled  Ham        Cabbage  Salad 

Plum  Pudding  Mince  and  Pumpkin  Pies 

Vanila  Ice  Cream 

Assorted  Fruits  and  Candies 

Coffee 

A  Variation  of  the  Above    Menu 

Oyster  Canapes 
Consomm^    served    with    Whipped    Cream    in 


tall  chocolate  cups. 

Boiled  Turkev,  Celery  Sauce       Chestnut  Pur6e 

Cranberry  l^'rapp^       Baked  Stuffed  Onions 

Baked  Ham  with  Fried  Apple  Rings 

Cabbage  and  Cocoanut  Salad  in  Green  reppers 

Plum  Pudding  Sandwiches 

Pumpkin  Pie  Tarts,  with  Whipped  Cream 

Mince  Pie  Ramekins 

Frozen  Egg-nog        Assorted  Fruit  and  Canditss 

Coffee 

Oyster  Canapes 

Instead  of  the  usual  raw  oyster  appe- 
tizer, try  this.  Grind  oysters  in  the 
meat-grinder  and  season  them  as 
for  oyster  cocktail  with  Tabasco  sauce, 
Worcestershire  catsup,  celery  salt  or 
chopped  celery,  and  lemon  juice.  Spread 
thickly  on  oblong  pieces  of  buttered 
tog^t,  dot- with  bits  of  butter,  moisten 
all  with  the  strained  oyster  liquor, 
which  has  been  heated  carefully  to 
the  boiling  point.  Heat  through  in 
a  very  hot  oven.  Garnish  by  placing 
across  each  end  of  the  toast  chopped 
olives,  and  place  a  slice  of  lemon  cov- 
ered with  chopped  parsley  on  each 
plate.     Serve  very  hot. 

To  Vary  the  Consomme 

Serve  a  clear  Consomm6  very  hot 
in  tall  chocolate  cups  or  iced  tea  glasses; 
garnish  with  whipped  cream  and  set 
a  straw  in  each  cup  to  be  used  instead 
of  bouillon  spoons.  This  will  add  zest 
to  the  otherwise  conventional  soup. 


To  Boil  the  Ttirkey 


379 


380 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


The  turkey  may  be  stuffed  or  not, 
as  wished,  wrapped  in  cheese  cloth 
and  plunged  into  boiling  water,  using 
as  little  water  as  possible.  Cover  tightly 
and  cook  very  slowly  until  tender.  It 
may  be  garnished  as  attractively  as 
when  roasted,  with  strings  of  cran- 
berries, celery  leaves,  and  paper  frills. 
To  boil  the  turkey  and  bake  the  ham 
will  be  reversing  the  process  from  the 
usual  roasted  turkey  and  boiled  ham, 
and  this  change  will  be  enjoyed. 

Serve  the  Turkey  with  Celery 

Sauce 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  consis- 
tency of  gravy.  Add  stewed  celery, 
cut  fine,  and  season  well.  The  giblets, 
chopped  fine,  may  be  Added  if  wished. 
The  water  in  which  the  turkey  is  cooked 
may  be  used  with  cream  for  this  sauce. 

Cranberry  Frappe 

This  is  sure  to  appeal  to  all  —  a 
cool,  tart,  refreshing  accompaniment 
to  the  turkey  —  and  a  pleasant  change 
from  the  usual  jelly  or  sauce.  Cook 
the  cranberries  as  for  a  sauce,  strain, 
add  sugar  syrup  and  freeze  to  a  mush. 
Serve  in  tall  Champagne  glasses  a 
sprig  of  holly  in  each.  Serve  this 
with  the  turkey. 

Chestnut  Pure6 

Substitute  for  the  common  mashed 
potato,  a  chestnut  pur6e  which  looks 
like  potato  and  is  a  delicious  accom- 
paniment to  turkey.  Boil  the  chestnuts 
as  usual;  mash  them  or  put  through 
a  ricer;  add  a  liberal  supply  of  hot 
cream  and  butter,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  beat  until  very  light. 
A  beaten  white  of  egg  may  be  added 
if  wished. 

Garnish  the  Baked  Ham 

With  rows  of  almonds  and  raisins, 
set  alternately  in  the  fat  surface. 

Apple  Rings 

Are  fried  in  deep  fat  and  sprinkled 


with  sugar  while  draining  on  paper. 
Place  the  rings  over  lapping,  around 
the  platter  of  ham. 

Baked  Stuflfed  Onions 

Creamed  onions  are  the  usual  ac- 
companiment  to  roast  turkey,  but  with 
boiled  turkey,  to  bake  them  is  best. 
Remove  the  centers  of  the  onions  after 
parboiling  and  fill  with  a  mixture  of 
chopped  nuts  and  bread  crumbs  mois- 
tened with  melted  butter.  Add  the 
removed  centers  of  the  onions.  Place 
in  a  casserole  or  covered  dish,  surrotind 
with  milk  or  meat  stock  and  bake 
until  tender.  Remove  the  cover,  sprin- 
kle buttered  bread  crumbs  over  the 
onions  and  brown  quickly.  The  milk 
should  be  almost  completely  absorbed 
in  the  cooking.  Baste  occasionally  dur- 
ing the  process. 

Cabbage-and-Cocoanut  Salad 

Cabbage  seems  to  be  the  customary 
salad  for  ham  or  pork.  To  vary  the 
common  cabbage  salad,  the  addition 
of  cocoanut  is  a  new  and  pleasant 
change.  Shave  the  cabbage  very  fine 
and  add  one-fourth  as  much  shredded 
cocoanut  as  cabbage;  moisten  well 
with  a  cooked  cream  dressing  and 
fill  green  peppers  with  the  mixture; 
garnish  with  cream  dressing  and  a 
bit  of  green  pepper  or  pimientoes  cut 
in  some  fancy  shape.  Place  the  pep- 
pers in  lettuce  nests  and  serve  with 
green  pepper  sandwiches,  if  the.  salad 
is  made  a  separate  course  in  the 
serving. 

Plum  Pudding  Sandwiches 

This  is  a  method  of  serving  individual 
portions  of  pudding  Cut  the  pudding 
likie  slices  of  bread.  Spread  each  piece 
with  a  hard  sauce  one-half  inch  thick, 
cover  with  another  piece  of  pudding, 
and  pour  brandy  over  each  sandwich, 
ready  to  light.  Lay  a  sprig  of  holly 
on  each  plate  and  bring  the  individual 
plates,  aflame,  to  the  table.  Pass  a 
brandy  liquid  sauce  with  the  pudding. 


REMODELING  THE  CHRISTMAS  DINNER 


381 


Pumpkin  Pie  Tarts 

Make  the  pies  in  deep  patty  pans 
and  garnish  each  with  whipped  cream 
put  through  the  pastry  bag. 

Mince  Pie  Ramekins 

These  are  made  with  only  one  crust 
as  the  English  pies,  individual  ramekins 
being  filled  with  the  hot  mince  meat, 
and  pie  crust  placed  on  top.  Place 
a  piece  of  Edam  cheese  on  the  ramekin 
saucer  when  served. 

Frozen  Egg-Nog 

The  Christmas  egg-nog  is  made  as 
usual,  but  frozen  and  served  as  an 
appetizing  accompaniment  to  the  other 
desserts.  An  attractive  method  of  serv- 
ing is  to  fill  egg  shells,  which  have 
been  opened  carefully  at  the  small 
end,  with  the  frozen  egg-nog  and  set 
the  shells  in  egg  cups. 

An    Old    English    Christmas 

Dinner 

Roasted  Little  Pig      Boiled  Buttered  Parsnips 

with  Sausage  Meat 

Apple  Compote        Brussels  Sprouts 

Boiled  Raisin  Pudding 

Pheasant  Pie        Currant  Jelly 

Plum  Puddine,  Brandy  and  Hard  Sauce 

English  Mince  Pie  (deep,  one  crust) 

Stilton  or  Cheddar  Cheese  and  Crackers 

Hot  Punch  (like  the  old  Wassail  Bowl) 

No  doubt  the  old  ceremony  of  serv- 
ing up  the  boar's  head  on  Christmas 
(it  is  still  observed  in  the  hall  of  Queen's 
College,  Oxford)  has  degenerated  into 
serving  something  of  the  same  nature, 
but  really  good  to  eat.  The  tiny 
pig  may  be  roasted  whole  and  served 
on  a  huge  silver  platter,  decorated 
with  rosemary,  with  a  lemon  or  apple 
in  its  mouth,  much  the  same  as  the 
old  time  boar'a.head. 

The  apple  Compote  may  be  used 
together  with  the  sausage,  shaped  in 
balls  as  a  garnish  also  for  the  pig. 

The  boiled  raisin  pudding  is  a  cus- 
tomary accompaniment  to  fresh  pork. 

The  vegetables  are  the  usual  ones 


served  with  this  dinner  and  are  cooked 
with  sauces  or  other  seasoning  than 
butter,  salt  or  pepper. 

The  Pheasant  Pie  (often  times  it 
is  a  pigeon,  or  quail  or  fowl)  is  a  relic 
of  the  oldtime  custom  of  serving  a 
peacock  pie  at  the  solemn  banquets  of 
chivalry,  when  Knight  Errants  pledged 
themselves  "by  cock  and  pie"  to  under- 
take some  wild  and  dangerous  feat. 
The  head  of  the  bird  is  made  to  stand 
up  above  the  crust  on  one  side,  its 
beak  gilded,  and  the  tail  at  the  other 
in  all  its  beautiful  plumage. 

The  Plum  Pudding  is  decorated  with 
holly  and  is  brought  in  flaming  bright 
with  burning  brandy.  It  is  served 
with  hard  and  liquid  sauces. 

The  Mince  Pie  is  made  with  one 
crust,  in  a  deep  pudding  dish  or  pan, 
and  is  served  hot.  English  Cheeses 
and  crackers  may  be  served  with  the 
pie  or  later  with  the  hot  punch. 

The  Hot  Pimch  is  a  relic  also  of 
the  "Wassail  Bowl"  so  renowned  in 
tJie  Christmas  festivities.  It  is  com- 
posed of  ale  or  wine,  highly  spiced 
with  nutmeg  and  ginger,  sweetened; 
and  roasted  apples  and  toast  are  added. 
The  butler  serves  this  from  a  hugh 
punch  bowl  in  the  dining-room  after 
the  table  has  been  cleared. 

A  Typical  German  Christmas 

Dinner 

Roast  Goose  with  Sausages 
Chestnut  Stuffine        Giblet  Gravy 
Spiced  Apple  Compote 
Boiled  Red  Cabbage  and  Apple 

Carrots,  German  Style 

Belgian  Hare,  Sour  Cream  Sauce 

Kohi-rabi  Salad,  Parisian  Dressing 

All  sorts  of  German  Christmas  Cakes 

Almonds        Candies 

Crackers  and  Cheese 

Cafe  Noir 

The  Roast  Goose  is  garnished  with 
German  sausages,  water  cress  and  bright 
red  cranberries.  Sausage  meat  is  us- 
ually used  with  chestnuts  as  well  for 
the  stuffing.  Chestnuts  are  added  to 
the  gravy 


382 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Spiced  Apple  Compote 

Select  red  apples,  cook  in  boiling 
water  until  soft,  turning  often.  Re- 
move skins.  To  the  water  add  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar,  grated  rind  of  a 
lemon,  one  inch  stick  cinnamon,  the 
juice  of  one  orange.  Sumner  tmtil 
thick,  then  pour  over  the  apples. 

Boiled  Red  Cabbage  and  Apple 

Slice  red  cabbage  Put  one  quart 
in  a  stew  pan  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter  or  fat  salt  pork,  cut  in  small 
pieces,  salt,  chopped  onion,  a  few 
gratings  of  nutmeg,  a  few  grains  of 
cayenne  and  cook  tmtil  the  cabbage 
is  nearly  tender;  then  add  one  pint 
of  apples,  peeled  and  sliced  very  thin. 
The  apple  should  entirely  disappear 
in  the  cooking.  More  meat,  bacon 
or  pork  can  be  used  and  will  add  flavor. 
This  should  be  well  seasoned. 

Carrots— German  Style 

Clean  and  cut  carrots  in  one-half 
inch  cubes.  Cover  with  boiling  salted 
water  and  cook  until  tender.  Drain, 
reserving  water.  Make  a  drawn  but- 
ter sauce  using  carrot  water  to  which 
has  been  added  a  little  sugar  and 
nutmeg.  Pour  the  sauce,  of  which 
there  should  be  one-half  as  much  as 
vegetable,  over  the  carrots  and  cook 
together  for  five  minutes.  Serve  at 
once. 


Belgian  Hare — Sour  Cream 

Sauce 

Prepare  a  hare,  split  down  the  back 
and  lard  it.  Brown  slices  of  onion 
in  bacon  fat;  add  one  cup  of  stock 
or  water  and  bake,  basting  often. 
Allow  forty-five  minutes  or  one  hour 
for  baking.  Add  one  cup  of  thick 
cream  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  or 
one  cup  of  sour  cream  and  cook  fifteen 
minutes  longer,  basting  often.  Pour 
the  sauce  around  the  hare  and  serve. 
The  sauce  may  be  strained  and  thick- 
ened if  preferred. 

Kohl-Rabi  Salad  —  Parisian 
Dressing 

Cook  Kohl-rabi  until  tender  in  boil- 
ing salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  cool, 
and  serve  cold  as  a  salad,  over  which 
is  poured  a  French  dressing,  which 
has  added  to  it  chopped  parsley  red 
and  green  peppers,  grated  onion  and 
celery  salt. 

The  German  Christmas  Cakes  are 
infinite  in  number.  Many  are  made 
with  a  basis  of  almond  paste.  These 
can  be  ordered  in  cities  from  German 
bakeries.  It  would  not  be  a  typical 
German  menu  without  the  famous 
Christmas  Cakes. 

The  Salad  is  usually  served  before 
the  main  course.  If  a  soup  is  served, 
it  is  usually  a  vegetable  and  meat 
soup,   well   seasoned. 


SHE 

The  book  of  verses  underneath  the  bough, 
I  might  write  for  you,  but  I  fear,  just  now, 

The  loaf  of  bread  is  quite  beyond  my  ken  — 
I  can't  cook  —  but,  please  like  me  anyhow. 

HE 

The  book  of  verses  underneath  the  bough, 
I  might  provide  you,  but,  I  fear,  just  now, 

The  loaf  of  bread  is  quite  beyond  my  purse  — 
I'm  broke  —  but  won't  you  like  me  anyhow? 

Mary  Carolyn  Da  vies. 


\ 


HOTylE 
IDEAS  <&. 
EC°N°MIE-3 


Contributions  to  thia  deputment  will  be  gladly  received.    Accepted  items  will  be 
paid  for  at  reaaonable  ratea. 


If  You  Give  Money 

MONEY  is  oftentimes  the  most  ac- 
ceptable present  one  may  give  at 
Christmas  time,  especially  where 
the  tastes  of  the  recipient  are  unknown. 
But  it  should  be  given  in  some  novel, 
attractive  manner,  to  relieve  it  of  its 
cold,  impersonal  touch  and  to  render 
it  as  Christmasy  in  effect  as  other 
gifts.  Here  are  some  unusual  methods 
that  have  proven  successful.  It  seems 
useless  to  say  that  the  money  should 
be  crisp  and  new. 

A  long  narrow  box,  such  as  pepper- 
mint chocolates  sometimes  come  in, 
was  filled  by  one  woman  with  half 
dollars  and  labeled  "  Mint  Wafers," 
then  wrapped  and  tied  in  true  Christ- 
mas fashion.  Another  box  labeled  the 
same  was  so  in  two  senses  of  the  words. 
Some  new  dimes  were  thoroughly  steri- 
lized and  then  pressed  into  the  centers 
of  some  home-made  mint  wafers  before 
they  hardened. 

The  little  glass  jars  that  are  filled 
with  tiny  sticks  of  candy  gave  another 
woman  an  idea.  She  rolled  new  one 
dollar  bills  into  neat  cylinders  and 
wound  narrow  red  ribbon  around  them 
to  simulate  sticks  of  candy.  These 
were  put  into  the  glass  jar  and  made 
a  very  gay  appearance. 

Still  another  woman  procured  dimes 
to  the  amount  of  five  dollars  and, 
stacking  them  neatly,  wrapped  the 
cylinder  in  holly  paper  and  tied  it 
with  ribbon.  One  might  substitute  a 
dollar  bill  for  the  holly  paper. 


A  small  boy  in  his  first  trousers 
received  a  little  purse  filled  to  bursting 
with  pennies.  "Reddy  money"  was 
the  inscription  it  bore.  A  girl  noted 
for  her  bookish  tastes  was  once  pre- 
sented with  a  most  odd  and  convenient 
little  book.  It's  title  was  "Notes  of 
American  Travel,"  and  it  consisted 
of  tea  one  dollar  bills  bound  together 
with  Bristol  board  covered,  with  holly 
paper  and  the  title  written  with  gold 
paint. 

A  most  dainty  rafBa  basket,  shaped 
like  a  market  basket,  was  filled  with 
new  coins  of  all  denominations  and 
on  the  card  attached  to  the  handle 
was  written  "Fresh  from  the  money 
market."  This  gift  was  a  contribu- 
tion of  some  children  to  their  house- 
wifely mother. 

A  temporary  invalid  was  surprised 
with  a  holly-covered  powder  box  bear- 
ing a  white  label  with  this  prescrip- 
tion: "Soothing  Powders.  To  be  taken 
in  a  financial  panic.  Kris  Krinkle, 
Doctor."  The  box  was  filled  with 
bills,  each  wrapped  like  a  powder  in 
white  paper.  One  need  not  be  an  inva- 
lid, however,  to  appreciate  this  sort 
of  gift. 

One  boy  wanted  a  motor  cycle  lamp, 
so  his  sister  gave  him  the  money  for 
it  in  his  stocking.  A  number  of  small 
gifts,  such  as  rings,  pins  or  cuff-buttons, 
from  the  other  relatives,  were  wrapped 
in  dollar  bills  instead  of  the  usual  tissue 
paper,  and  several  more  bills  were 
stuffed  carelessly  in  the  stocking,  while 
the  last  one,  a  five  dollar  note,  was 


384 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


daintily  wrapped  in  tissue  paper  and 
red  ribbon  dang  with  her  card,  upon 
which  she  had  written  "$1  +  1  +  1  +  1+1 
+  1  +  1  +  5=one  motorcycle  lamp." 

A  clever  way  is  to  use  a  series  of 
envelopes,  graduated  to  fit  into  each 
other,  each  bearing  a  verse  or  line, 
all  pointing  toward  the  gift  of  money, 
which  should  be  enclosed  in  the  last 
envelope. 

Quite  the  quaintest  conceit  I  ever 
saw  was  a  tiny  doll  dressed  in  bank 
lotes.  The  sldrt  was  a  five  dollar 
bill  plaited  and  fastened  to  the  waist 
by  red  ribbon.  A  cape  of  another 
bill,  plaited  in  the  same  manner,  adorned 
the  shoulders,  and  another  bill  was 
wotmd  around  the  head  for  a  bonnet. 

It  remained  for  a  girl  with  an  artistic 
bend  to  transform  her  gold  into  a 
thing  of  beauty  With  a  bit  of  glue 
she  fastened  a  five  dollar  gold  piece 
to  the  center  of  her  calling  card  and 
around  it,  arranged  some  petals  from 
an  artificial  daisy.  It  was  sent  in 
a  box  lined  with  green  cotton  and 
was,  indeed,  a  daisy  with  a  heart  of  gold. 

A  veritable  Lady  Bounty  sent  her 
son's  family  a  large  cake  in  which 
were  baked  a  great  number  of  coins 
ranging  in  value  from  a  dime  to  a 
five  dollar  gold  piece.  The  family 
were  unaware  of  the  ''richness"  of 
their  cake  until  they  began  to  cut  it, 
and  not  tmtil  the  last  piece  had  been 
devoured  were  they  able  to  realize  its 
total  wealth.  Needless  to  say,  the 
cake  had  no  chance  to  grow  stale !  m.  b .  b. 


♦     *     ♦ 


Cold  Weather  Duties 

WITH  the  first  cool  days  of  early 
fall,  the  housekeeper  commences 
to  formulate  plans  to  make  her  family 
comfortable  for  the  coming  of  winter, 
and  her  duties  become  more  exacting, 
because  so  much  depends  upon  the 
atmosphere  of  the  house.  In  summer 
the  normal  person  lives  so  much  out 
of  doors,  windows  and  doors  are  con- 
stantly open;  tlaere  is  no  care  as  to 


the  heating  of  the  house;  social  duties 
are  of  an  informal  character,  and  one 
takes  life  more  easily.  The  gradual 
approach  of  winter  brings  such  a  change, 
from  a  house  constantly  open  to  the 
fresh  breezes  and  direct  sunlight  to 
one  almost  constantly  closed,  that  a 
little  advice,  on  how  to  keep  the  rooms 
sweet,  well-ventilated,  and  properly 
heated,  will  not  come  amiss. 

Healthful  animal  or  vegetable  life 
cannot  be  sustained  without  fresh  air 
in  plenty.  With  the  first  chilly  days 
we  are  apt  to  forget  this  and  so  keep 
the  house  too  carefully  closed  against 
the  air.  Living  in  rooms  that  have 
not  a  proper  supply  of  pure  air  lowers 
the  vitality  and  makes  one  feel  the 
cold  much  more.  It  is  an  error  to 
think  a  house  can  be  kept  warmer 
without  fresh  air  than  with  it. 

Air  the  sleeping  rooms  the  first  thing 
in  the  morning.  Have  at  least  one 
window  in  the  upper  hall  in  which 
a  ventilator  can  be  placed;  or  if  that 
be  inconvenient,  have  a  strip  of  board 
about  four  or  five  inches  wide  set 
under  the  lower  sash.  This  will  give 
fresh  air  without  a  draught,  and  is 
a  good  way  to  ventilate  sleeping  rooms, 
when  one  fears  an  open  window.  Always 
keep  some  rooms  warm,  while  the  others 
are  being  aired,  then  give  them  a  thor- 
ough flooding  with  fresh  air,  when 
the  first  rooms  are  comfortable.  The 
kitchen  with  its  odors  should  be  opened 
to  the  sunshine  at  every  opportimity. 
It  is  a  good  plan  to  have  a  kitchen 
window  opened  always  a  few  inches 
at  the  top.  Then  from  the  opened 
door  there  comes  a  draught  that  carries 
the  impure  air  out  of  the  window. 

Fall  cleaning  need  not  be  as  energetic 
as  that  of  spring.  The  walls  need  to 
be  wiped  down,  as  they  are  likely  to 
harbor  dust,  the  result  if  opening 
doors.  Screens  should  be  taken  down, 
cleaned  thoroughly,  and  wiped  well 
with  oil,  to  prevent  rusting  while  in 
storage. 

Although  electric  lights  and  gas  are 


HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONMIES 


385 


in  general  use,  they  have  not  altogether 
displaced  the  kerosene  lamp  as  yet, 
and  in  fact  there  are  many  house- 
wives who  prefer  the  old  style  lamp. 
But  tmless  a  lamp  is  kept  in  clean 
condition,  it  will  furnish  a  poor  flicker- 
ing light,  and  give  off  unpleasant  odors. 
Therefore  lamp  cleaning  becomes  a 
part  of  each  winter  day's  routine, 
and  the  best  time  for  the  task  is  in 
the  morning,  since  filling  lamps  by 
artificial  light  has  been  the  cause  of 
many  a  serious  accident. 

See  that  *  the  fruit  cellar  is  properly 
cleaned  and  in  fit  sanitary  condition, 
for  housing  the  winter's  supply.  An 
even  temperature  shotdd  be  maintained. 
As  much  fruit  is  lost  through  a  foul 
cellar  as  by  imperfect  sealing. 

The  care  of  the  plumbing  is  an 
important  duty.  The  housekeeper 
should  see,  at  least  once  a  day,  to  the 
thorough  flushing  of  all  pipes.  The 
best  time  for  this  is  after  the  morn- 
ing's work  is  done.  After  the  mid-day 
work  is  done,  and  again  at  night,  the 
pipe  in  the  kitchen  sink  should  be 
thoroughly  flushed  with  hot  water, 
if  possible.  Once  a  week  put  half 
a  pint  of  washing  soda  in  an  old  sauce 
pan  and  add  six  quarts  of  hot  water, 
place  on  the  fire  until  the  soda  is  dis- 
solved, then  pour  the  water  in  the  pipes, 
reserving  two  quarts  of  it  for  the  kit- 
chen sink.  M.  c.  K. 

*        4t        4( 

A  Progressive  Gift  for  an  Invalid 

WHEN  half  a  continent  stretches 
between  one  and  an  aged,  shut- 
in  friend,  it  is  difficult  indeed  to  think 
of  a  suitable  gift.  A  California  woman 
has  solved  the  problem  in  this  fashio'n: 
She  writes  to  her  aged  mother: 

"The  enclosed  ten  dollars  is  for  a 
continuous  'treat.'  Every  time  Sister 
goes  down 'town  she  must  bring  home 
some  frivolous  thing  —  something  you 
do  not  need,  and  therefore  would 
not  buy.  It  may  be  a  box  of  mints 
or  chocolates,  a  bag  of  nuts,  or,  per- 


haps, a  lot  of  California  fruit  which 
you  can  play  came  direct  from  our 
orchards." 

**  Other  people  who  can  go  down 
town  enjoy  treating  themselves  and 
their  friends,  but  you  can  do  your 
ordering,  and  then  treat  the  people 
who  come  to  see  you. 

"But  hurry  up  and  spend  this,  for 
another  ten  is  coming  soon." 

Now  every  invalid  knows  how  much 
such  little  things  count,  the  coming 
in  of  a  surprise  package,  the  candy- 
box  hid  under  the  pillow  to  be  opened 
occasionally  in  the  long  wakeful  hours 
of  the  night,  the  pleasant  sharing  with 
a  caller,  or  something  to  give  a  little 
child.  And  to  always  have  a  treat 
on  hand  —  ah,  that  is  being  rich  when 
one  is  shut  in. 

Surely   a    progressive    gift    like    this 

is  better  than  a  big  one  with  a  big 

thrill,  soon  over!  l.  m.  c. 

*     *     * 

Some  Swiss  Dishes 
White  Soup 

2  quarts  of  white  stock    1  head  of  celery 

1  medium  parsnip  1  cup  of  mushrooms 

1  cup  of  thin  cream  or  1  cup  of  milk  with  1  egg 

yolk,   well  beaten 
Dash  of  curry  poWder  or  speck  of  garlic 

Cook  parsnip,  celery  and. mushrooms 
in  stock  until  soft  enough  to  rub  through 
wire  sieve;  put  pulp  back  into  stock, 
add  cream,   or  milk  and  egg  mixture; 
carefully  reheat  to  boiling  point.     Flavor 
with  salt,  speck  of  white  pepper  and 
dash  of  curry  or  about  a  large  pea-size 
of  garlic,  crushed  to  pulp.     Serve  with 
tiny    diamonds    of    bread,    dried    over 
night  in  oven,  so  they  are  quite  white 
but  very  crisp. 

Red  Cabbage  Hot 

Slice  or  chop  one  small  good  head 
of  red  cabbage  fine  and  throw  into 
boiling  water  with  speck  of  soda, 
cook  fast  for  30  minutes.  Drain  not 
quite  dry,  add  generously  of  butter, 
some  salt  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
naild  vinegar  (here  they  use  sour  wine). 


386 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING^CHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Serve  very  hot  with  cold  meat  or  any 
dry  meat,  like  veal. 

Swiss  Dessert 

Make  one  quart  of  gelatine  and  milk 

blanc  mange,  and  flavor   with  almond 

slightly;  put  in  ring  mold  to  set..    When 

quite  firm,  turn  into  round  chop  dish, 

fill    center    with    canned    red    cherries 

and  serve  juice  in  small  glass  pitcher. 

Whipped   cream   would   add   to   looks 

and  richness.  a.  g.  h. 

«     *     * 

MANY  people  have  diflEiculty  in 
cooking  a  small  roast  of  beef 
perfectly,  but  I  am  sure,  if  they  will 
carry  out  the  following  directions,  they 
will  succeed  in  having  a  perfectly  cooked 
roast.  Have  your  beef  boned  and 
rolled  and  be  sure  to  tie  it  very  securely. 
Allowing  an  hour  for  a  four-pound 
roast,  divide  the  time  of  cooking.  Put 
your  roast  in  a  good  hot  oven  and 
let  remain  half  an  hour,  then  remove 
from  the  oven  and  let  it  stand  on  the 
side  table  half  an  hour,  returning  it 
to  the  oven  half  an  hour  before  serving 
time.  I  have  done  this  since  I  dis- 
covered it  three  years  ago  and  my 
only  theory  is  that  the  cold  air  forces 
the  heat  towards  the  center  and,  con- 
sequently, every  part  of  the  meat  is 
done  equally  well.  Even  when  I  roast 
my  beef  in  a  paper  bag  I  follow  out  the 

same  rule.  h.  i.  s. 

*    *    « 

A  Dessert  and  Salad 

From   one   can   of   sliced  pineapple, 
to  serve  four  people  on  alternate  days. 


(My  cans  contain  eight  slices.) 

Pineapple  Salad 

Place  one  slice  of  pineapple  on  a 
heart -leaf  of  lettuce,  garnish  with 
strips  of  canned  pimiento,  placed  in 
star  fashion.  Pour  over  all  a  highly 
seasoned  French  dressing. 

Pineapple  Dessert 

Arrange  slices  of  pineapple  on  small 
plates  for  individual  service.  Cut  up 
about  seven  marshmallows  in  small 
strips  —  place  on  the  pineapple  as  be- 
fore. Let  marinate  for  two  hours  in 
a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  pineapple  juice 
from  the  can.  In  serving,  place  a 
small  spoonful  of  beaten  cream  in  center 
of  each  serving 

Two  pineapple  desserts  from  one 
pint  can  of  chopped  pineapple. 

Pineapple  Sherbet 

One-half  pint  can  pineapple,  juice 
of  two  lemons,  2  cups  of  sugar,  3  cups 
milk,  1  cup  cream. 

The  pineapple  must  be  fine-chopped, 
and  then  mix  all  in  order  given.  Freeze, 
let  stand  two  hours.  This  will  serve 
eight  people  liberally. 

A    Good    Pineapple    Dessert 

One-half  can  chopped  pineapple,  one- 
half  lb.  cut-up  marshmallows. 

Mix  together  with -silver  fork.  Let 
stand  two  hours.  Mask  with  whipped 
cream,  dotted  with  a  few  chopped 
cherries.  g.  p.  w. 


WO 

A  song  of  anguished  heartache 

Went  winging  with  the  night. 

Straight  to  the  gates  of  sorrow 

It  took  its  aimless  flight; 

And  hearts  grown  gray  with  grieving, 

Eager  to  unlearn  pain. 

It  stabbed  again  with  sadness 

Till  teardrops  fell  like  rain. 


Songs 


A  little  song  of  gladness 
Went  dancing  with  the  day — 
Love  of  a  lad  and  lassie 
Adown  a  flowered  way, — 
But  light  with  silver  foot-fall 
And  sweet  as  Springtime  rain 
It  roused  in  each  heart  perfume — 
A  dream  of  lover's  lane. 

Eleanor  Robbins  Wilsoh, 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advcttiMd  Good*  —  do  not  «ocept  wbMitutM 


QUERIEtJi 


IAN,SWERJ 


QuBRY  2099.  — "Recipe  for  Orange  Crullers 
given  a  few  years  ago  in  this  magazine." 

Orange   Crullers 


2  eggB>  beaten  light 

i  a  cup  of  granulated 

sugar 
i  a  cup  of  rich  milk 
2  cups  of  sifted  flour 


THIS  department  is  for  the  benefit  and  free  use  of  our  subscribers.  Questions  relatii^ 
to  recipes,  and  those  pertaining  to  culinary  science  and  domestic  economics  in  geneial« 
will  be  cheerfully  answered  by  the  editor.  Communications  for  this  department  must  reach  us  bef  on 
the  first  of  the  month  preceding  that  in  which  the  answers  are  expected  to  appear.  Inletters  requesting 
answers  by  mail,  please  enclose  addressed  and  stamped  envelope.  For  menus  remit  $1.00.  Addreae 
queries  to  Janet  M.  Hill,  Bditor.  Borreit  CoosiMo-ScaooL  M AOAniri.  372  Boyiston  St.,  Boston,  M; 

Dill  Pickles 

BOIL  and  skim  three  gallons  of 
water,  and  two  pounds  of  coarse 
salt.  Select  cuciunbersTffrom  six  to 
eight  inches  long.  Wash  and  wipe 
them  carefully,  then  put  a  layer  of 
them  in  a  big  stone  jar;  one  that  will 
hold  at  least  four  gallons.  Then  put 
in  a  layer  of  grape  leaves  and  a  bunch 
of  dill  seed  on  the  stalk.  Go  on  in 
this  way  till  the  jar  is  full,  topping  it 
with  plenty  of  cabbage  leaves.  On 
the  very  top  put  a  large  stone.  Fill 
up  with  the  brine,  and  let  it  stand. 
Quiet  fermentation 'Hakes  place.  In 
about  two  or  three  weeks  your  cucum- 
bers are  done,  and  ought  to  be  trans- 
parent, like  amber,  with  a  sub-acid 
flavor,  which  the  grape  leaves  and  stems 
give  the  cucumbers.  F.  D.  P. 

Query  2098.  —  "Recipe  for  New  York  Ginger- 
bread." 


)  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 

(scant) 
1  teaspoonful  of  tar- 
tar, slightly  rounded 
f  a   level   teaspoonful 

of  soda 
Grated  rind  of  1  orange 


i  a  cup  of  butter 

1  cup  of  sugar 

2  eggs 

\  a  cup  of  mollasses 


New  York  Gingerbread 

i  a  cup  of  milk 

2  cups  of  flour 

3  tablespoonf  uls  yellow 
ginger 

}  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 

Mix  as  a  cake  is  mixed,  sifting  the 
soda  and  ginger  with  the  flour.  Yellow 
gii^ger  is  designated;  this  is  a  mixture 
of  ginger  and  tumeric;  tl.e  tumeric 
gives  the  yellow  color  which  is  a  char- 
acteristic of  this  fine-grained,  cake^ 
like  gingerbread. 


Add  the  sugar  to  the  eggs,  then  the 
milk  and  flour  sifted  with  the  salt, 
soda,  and  cream  of  tartar,  and,  lastly, 
the  grated  rind.     Mix  to  a  dough. 

On  a  floured  board  roll  the  dough, 
part  at  a  time,  into  a  sheet  one-fourth 
an  inch  thick.  With  a  cutter,  about  an 
inch  and  one-fourth  in  diameter,  cut 
the  dough  into  rounds.  Put  about  one- 
fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  orange  marma- 
lade on  a  piece  of  dough  and  cover  the 
marmalade  with  a  second  round;  press 
the  edges. together  close;  fry  in  deep  fat. 
The  smaU  end  of  a  fluted,  French  patty 
cutter  is  a  suitable  utensil  with  which 
to  cut  out  the  crullers.  Roll  in  powdered 
sugar  after  frying,  if  desired. 


Query  2100.  —  "Recipe  for  Italian  Spaghetti 
and  Noodles." 

Italian  Spaghetti 

Cook  the  spaghetti  in  rapidly-boiling 
salted  water  until  done;  drain,  rinse 
in  cold  water  and  return  to  a  hot  sauce- 
pan; shake  the  pan  over  the  fire  to  dry 
the  spaghetti;  add,  for  half  a  pound 


388 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


When  making  your 
Christinas  candy 

— you  are  particularly  anxious  to  make  it 

good;  you  want  it  just  right. 

Do  this  on  the  first  try  ;  don't  tire  yourself 

out  fussing  with  it — use  a  thermometer  and 

know  the  exact  moment  to  take  it  off  the  fire. 

Your  dealer  can  supply  you  with  a 

"WILDER" 

Home  Candy  Makers'  Thermometer 

which  is  guaranteed  accurate;  or  upon  receipt  of  $1.25  one  will  lie 

mailed  you  postpaid. 

Not  only  would  you  find  this  ihermom-      |^|ie»—l««i  YiTilfl  on  C^r\ 
eter  indispensabU.  but  your  friend       V-iOUriCS  TTlIUer  V-iO. 

would  appreciate  one  as  a  gift.  TRO 1 »   N.    I  • 

Buy  advertised  goods— do  not  accept  substitutes 


390 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


of  spaghetti,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  dash  of  pepper,  a  scant  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  grated  cheese  and  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  butter;  shake  the  pan  to  melt 
the  cheese  and  butter  and  distribute 
them  evenly  over  the  spaghetti. 

Spaghetti,  Italian   Style   (No.   2) 

Cook  the  spaghetti  as  before  and 
let  stand  to  keep  hot.  Melt  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  butter:  in  it  cook  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  flour  and  half  a  teaspoonful, 
each,  of  salt  and  pepper;  add  one  cup, 
each,  of  tomato  puree  and  rich  brown 
stock  (broth  flavored  with  onion,  car- 
rot and  celery)  and  stir  until  the  sauce 
boils;  pour  the  sauce  over  the  niacaroni 
and  add  two  or  three  ounces  of  grated 
cheese;  lift  the  spaghetti,  with  a  spoon 
and  fork  to  mix  the  ingredients  thor- 
oughly; let  stand  over  hot  water  until 
very  hot,  then  serve.  The  spaghetti 
may  be  broken  in  pieces  about  two 
inches  in  length  before  cooking,  or, 
the  whole  lengths  may  be  slowly  coiled 
aroimd  in  the  boiling  water  and  kept 
whole  for  serving.  Americans  usually 
break  the  spaghetti  in  pieces  before 
cooking. 

Noodles 

To  three  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  add 
a  few  grains  of  salt  and  enough  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  dough;  knead  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes;  roll  into  a  sheet 
as  thin  as  paper  (a  piece  of  duck  or 
a  "magic  cover"  is  the  best  surface 
upon  which  to  roll  the  paste.)  Let 
stand,  covered  with  a  doth,  about 
half  an  hour,  to  dry  the  surface.  Roll 
the  paste  loosely  like  a  jelly  roll,  then 
cut  into  very  narrow  threads  or  into 
ribbons  one-fourth  an  inch  wide.  Sep- 
arate the  threads  or  ribbons  and  let 
stand  an  hour  or  more  to  dry.  Cook 
about  fifteen  minutes  in  rapidly  boil- 
ing salted  water. 

Query     2101.  —  "Recipe     for     Salt-Rising 
Bread."  * 

Salt-Rising  Bread 

Into  a  pint  of  lukewarm  water  stir 


flour  to'  make  a  drop  batter.  Let 
stand  in  a  vessel  of  lukewarm  water 
in  a  warm  place,  keeping  the  tempera- 
ture as  nearly  70®  F.  as  possible. 
When  light  and  foamy,  in  eight  or  ten 
hours,  add  a  quart  of  lukewarm  water, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  flour  to 
make  a  batter  rather  stiffer  than  before. 
Keep  at  the  temperature  of  about  70° 
F.,  and,  when  again  light,  turn  into 
pans  and,  when  nearly  doubled  in 
bulk,  bake  in  an  oven  of  ordinary  tem- 
perature for  bread.  One-fourth  a  cup 
of  com  meal  may  be  stirred  into  the 
water  with  the  flour  when  making 
the  drop  "batter."  Two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar  may  be  added  with  the 
salt  when  mixing  the  dough. 


Query  2102. 
with  Currants. 


ii 


II 


Recipe  for  Pot  Roast  cooked 


Pot  Roast,  with    Currants 

Purchase  at  least  four  pounds  of 
beef  in  a  solid  piece  from  the  vein  of 
round.  Have  ready  some  hot  salt 
pork  fat  or  fat  from  the  top  of  a  kettle 
of  soup  in  a  frying  pan;  in  this  cook 
and  turn  the  meat  until  it  is  seared  and 
browned  on  all  sides.  Set  the  meat 
into  a  saucepan  or  iron  kettle  (the 
latter  is  the  most  suitable  utensil), 
pour  in  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  sprinkle 
over  the  top  of  the  meat  about  two- 
thirds  a  cup  of  dried  raisins,  cover  the 
kettle  close,  and  let  cook  where  the 
water  will  simply  simmer  very  gently; 
add  water  as  needed,  just  enough  to 
keep  the  meat  from  burning.  The 
cover  should  fit  close  to  keep  in  the 
moistiure.  Cook  until  the  meat  is  very 
tender.  Remove  the  meat  to  a  serving 
dish;  stir  into  the  liquid  two  level 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  one-fourth 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  smoothed  in 
about  one-fourth  a  cup  of  cold  water; 
stir  until  boiling,  let  simmer  ten  min- 
utes, then  pour  over  the  meat  or  serve 
in  a  dish  apart.  Serve  at  the  same 
time  plain  boiled  potatoes,  turnips  or 
squash  and  cabbage. 


ADVBRTISBMENTS 


H^  gS'Su. 


MANY  USES  AND  FULL 
DIHECTIONS  ON  LARGE 
SIFTER-CAH  10« 


\j^j^    I 


Biijr  «dv«tiMd  Goodi  —  do  not  «c*iit  wlNdtuUt 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Query  2103. 
ms. 


ii 


Recipe  fgr  Corn  meal  Muff- 


Cornmeal  Muffins 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  but-  1}  cups  of  flour 

ter  1  a  cup  of  cornmeal 

}  a  cup  of  sugar  3  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 

2  eggs  ing  powder 

]  a  cup  of  milk  }  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  and  beat 
in  the  sugar.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add 
the  milk.  Sift  together  the  dry  in- 
gredients; add  to  the  butter  and  sugar 
with  the  liquids  and  mix  thoroughly.. 
Bake  in  a  hot,  well-buttered  muffin  pan 
about  twenty-five  minutes.    . 


Query  210.4  — "Recipe  for  Salmon  Tim- 
bales."  "How  are  rosemary  and  kale  used  in 
cooking." 

Salmon  Timbales  (Ccx)ked  Fish) 

2   cups   of   cold   cooked       or  milk 

salmon,  chopped  fine     1    tablespoonful    of 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  but-      chopped  parsley 
ter  }  a  teaspoonful  of  saU  •> 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  I     a     teaspoonful     of 
crumbs  paprika 

}  a  cup  of  white  stock  2  eggs 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  crumbs  and 
stir  until  well  blended;  add  the  liquid, 
parsley  and  seasonings  and  stir  until 
boiling;  add  the.  fish  and  the  eggs, 
beaten  without  separating;  ttim  into 
buttered  molds;  let  cook  on  several 
folds  of  paper  in  a  dish  siurounded  with 
boiling  water.  Serve,  turned  from  the 
molds,  with  a  sauce  made  of  one-fourth 
a  cup,  each,  of  butter  and  flour,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  two  cups 
of  white  stock  or  milk,  or  half  of  each. 

Salmon  Timbales  (Raw  Fish) 

i  a  pound  of  raw  salmon  1  cup  of  double  cream 

2  egg  yolks  (raw)  2    egg-whites,    beaten 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter  dry 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour  i  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 

}  a  cup  of  chicken  or  I    a    teaspoonful     of 

fish  broth  pepper 

The  salmon  is  weighed  after  the  re- 
moval of  all  unedible  portions.  As 
purchased  rather  less  than  a  pound  is 
needed.  Scrape  the  pulp  from  the 
fibres  and  pound  to  a  smooth  con- 
sistency; add  the  yolks  and  pound  again. 
Before  pounding  the  fish  make  a  sauce 


of  ^the  butter,  flour,  salt  and  pepper 
as  needed  and  the  broth,  and  let  this 
cool.  Add  to  the  fish  and  egg  mixture 
and  pound  again;  then  fold  in  the 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  dry,  and  the 
cream,  beaten  firm,  also  the  salt  and 
pepper.  Thoroughly  grease  the  inside 
of  timbale  molds  with  softened  butter, 
then  sprinkle  with  capers  or  chopped 
parsley  and  set  aside  to  chill,  when 
the  decoration  will  be  held  in  place. 
Fill  the  molds  with  the  fish  preparation, 
tapping  them  on  the  table,  meanwhile, 
that  the  mixture  may  settle  firm  in 
the  molds.  Cook  in  the  oven,  on 
folds  of  paper  and  surrounded  by  boil- 
ing water  until  firm  in  the  center. 
Serve  with  Hollandaise,  drawn  butter 
or  fish  Bechamel  sauce.  Capers  may 
be  added  to  the  drawn  butter  sauce. 

Use  of  Rosemary  and  Kale  in 

Cooking 

Rosemary  is  an  aromatic  herb  used 
for  marinating  fish  and  some  special 
meats.  Kale  is  most  commonly  cooked 
as  *'greens,"  boiled  and  eaten  as  cab- 
bage, with  corned  beef,  etc. 


Pompous  Author  (to  veteran  editor) : 
*'What  would  you  advise  a  man  to  do 
whose  ideas  are  in  advance  of  the  times?" 
Veteran  Editor:  "I  would  advise  him 
to  sit  quietly  down  and  wait  for  the 
times  to  catch  up." 


An  Odorless  Disinfectant 

Means  that  your  home  is  kept  pure  and 
sweet  without  a  disagreeable  hospital  smell. 
Piatt's  Chlorides  is  absolutely  without  odor 
yet  does  the  work  quickly  and  thoroughly. 

TWO  SIZES— 25  AND  50  CENTS 

Platts  Pblorides. 

The  Odorless  Disinfectant. 

SAFE.   EFFICIENT   AND    ECONOMICAU 


Buy  adevrttaed  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

392 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


i 


EVERV 
PIECE 


Ifyo 
your 
table 


^ 


EVERY 
PIECE 


rnber 
stmas 

itfully 
use 


Ther 
sparki 
glassv 
table 
You 


m  and 
t  IS  ihe 
i  your 


many 
bnng 
Wni 

you  II 


DepL  56 


Newark.  Ohro 


Buy  adveniaed  Good*  —  <lo  oot  accept  Mbatitutea 


Hew   Books 


Dorothy    Brooke    Across    the    Sea.     By 
Frances     Caupbell     Sparhawk. 
Cloth,  m.    Price.  $1.50;  New  York; 
Thomas  Y.  Crowell  Company. 
This  is  the  fifth  and  final  volume  of 
the  Dorothy  Brooke  books.     It  Is  prob- 
ably, also,  the  best  of  the  series.     In 
it  Dorothy  goes  abroad  with  her  friend, 
Pell-Mell,    and   sees   men   and   things. 
The  scenes  and  events  of  the  trip  are 
beautifully  described,  and  the  modest 
bearing  of  the  charming  heroine  loses 
naught  of  its  fascination. 

The  experience  of  a  yotmg  woman 
13  always  interesting;  that  of  Dorothy 
Brooke  is  of  a  most  sweet  and  lovable 
young  woman.  The  story  ends  with 
her  happy  marriage.  In  this  series 
of  story  books,  now  well  known,  Miss 
Sparhawk  has  portrayed  in  her  heroine 


a  character  that  is  clean,  wholesome 
and  above  reproach.  No  suspicion  of 
taint  can  be  found  in  these  volumes. 
They  are  eminently  fitted  to  find  a 
place  in  the  clean  and  healthy  atmo- 
sphere of  homes  where  yoimg  girls 
and  boys  are  growing  to  maturity. 
They  are  an  inspiration  to  noble  living. 

Recipes  and  Menus  for   Fifty,  as  used 
in   the  School  oj  Domestic  Science 
of    the    Boston     Young    Woman's 
Christian   Association.    By   Fran- 
ces   Lowe   Smith.     Cloth,    Price, 
♦1.50  postpaid;  Boston;  Whitcomb 
and  Barrows. 
The   author   says:    "The    object   in 
publishing    this    collection    of    recipes 
and  menus  is  twofold  —  to  put  them 
in   a    convenient   and   accessible   form 
for  our  own  graduates,  who  find  them 
invaluable    in    their   various    fields    of 
work,  and  for  others  who  need  tried 
and   definite   recipes   for   use   in   small 
institutions. 

This  is  not  a  complete  cook-book, 
although  it  furnishes  material  for  a 
sufficiently  varied  menu.  The  recipes 
are  those  used  by  students  in  the  pre- 
paration of  meals  in  the  school-home 
kitchen,  as  distinct  from  the  laboratory; 
and  have  been  collected  and  adapted, 
during  a  period  of  eleven  years,  from 
various  sources  —  from  personal  ex- 
periments, from  the  school  laboratory- 
recipes,  from  student-matrons,  and  from 
numerous  cook-books. 

The  recipes  are  given  just  as  used 
in  the  kitchen  of  the  School  of  Domestic 
Science,  but  a  word  of  explanation 
is  necessary.  Our  students  are  women 
living  an  indoor,  serai-sedentary  life, 
and  are  comparatively  light  -  eaters. 
The  conditions  also  are  such  that  it 
is  possible  to  plan  more  closely  as  to 
quantities  than  is  usually  practicable 
elsewhere.  For  these  reasons,  the  quan- 
tities given  will  sometimes  be  insuffi- 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  lubatitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Good  cooking 
is  largely  a  matter 
of  proper  seasoning 


THE   importance  of  knowing 
what   seasoning   to   use  and 
how  to  use  it  so  that  it  will 
blend  properly  with  the  food  being 
cooked  cannot  be  overestimated. 

Knowing  how  to  use  just  the 
right  amount  of  the  right  kind  of 
seasoning  is  essential  to  good 
cookery, 

Mrs.  Sarah  Tyson  Rorer  has  pre- 
pared a  new  book  of  recipes  which 
will  help  any  woman  to  a  better 
knowledge  of  seasoning  and  will  per- 
haps introduce  somenew  and  unique 
dishes  to  her  culinary  repertoire. 

This  book  of  Mrs,  Rorer's  will  be 
sent  free  to  anybody  on  request. 
Just  send  your  name  and  address 
on  a  post  card  to  Department  H-7, 
Mcllhenny  Company,  Drexel  Build- 
ing, Philadelphia,  Pa. 


MclLHENNY'S  TABASCO  SAUCE 


y  advHtiaed  Gooda  -^  do  aot  accept  tubidtutM 


THE   BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL    MAGA2INE 


cient  for  families  oi  the  same  axe; 
and  again  will  be  just  right  for  sniiillw 
numbers  as,  for  instance,  summer 
camps,  boys'  schools,  or  college  balls." 
A 1  book  of  this  character  is  often 
called  for  by  those  who  are  engaged 
in  catering  where  large  numbers  are 
to  be  fed.  How  this  is  done  in  one 
successfully  conducted  institution  will 
undoubtedly  be  of  asristance  to  many 
another  who  is  likewise  eng^ed.  It 
has  the  authority  of  successful  experience. 

Tkt  Grocer's  Bncyclopatdia.^  By  Astb- 
HAS  Ward.  Qoth,  lU.  Price. 
$10.00:  New  York;  50 Union  Square. 
This  is  8  compendium  of  useful  infor- 
mation  concerning  foods  of  all  kinds; 
how  they  are  raised,  prepared  and  mar> 
keted;  how  to  care  for  them  in  Aore 
and  home;  how  best  to  use  and  esjoy 
them;  and  much  other  information 
for  grocers,  general  store-keepers  and 
markets.  The  Encyclopaedia  attempts 
to  give  some  information  on  every 
known  article  of  food  and  drink.  There 
are  eighty  full-page  plates  in  color, 
and  four  hundred  and  forty-nine  illus- 
trations. All  these  are  excellent.  The 
colored  plates  are  the  finest  we  have 
ever  seen.  In  every  respect  it  is  a 
great  and  superb  work. 


SeascHiable  Recipes 

Cooduded  from  page  376 
eggs,  beaten  dry.  Bake  in  three  layer 
cake  pans  about  twenty-five  minutes. 
Put  the  layers  together  with  Mocha 
frosting.  Spread  Mocha  frosting  hghtly 
over  the  top  and  sides,  then  decorate  the 
top  and  sides  with  the  rest  of  the  frost- 
ing. Use  a  pastry  bag  and  very  small 
five-pointed  tube,  in  piping  the  frosting. 
The  cake  may  be  baked  in  a  dripping 
pan  and  cut  into  individual  cakes. 

Mocha  Frosting 
Beat  half  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream; 
gradually  beat  in  two  cups  and  a  half 
of  sifted  confectioner's  sugar  and  a 
scant  quarter  a  cup  of  very  strong  black 
coffee. 


Buy  advertbed  Gooda-do  oot  accept  aubatitutea 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


The  "SINGLE  DAMPER"  in 


is  the  greatest  improvement  ever  made  in 
stoves.  By  one  motion  it  regulates  the  fire 
and  oven — push  the  knob  to  "Kindle", 
"Bake",  or  "Check" — the  range  does  tl^e  rest. 
Better  than  two  or  more  dampers.  Have 
you  seen  it?  This  Single  Damper  is 
patented — no  other  range  has  it. 

tie  deep  Ash  Hod — 
id  o(  the  old  clumsy  ash 
-with  coal  hod  beside  it 
nted)  is  easy  to  remove 
sen't  spill  ashes. 

Gas  ovens  if  de- 
sired ;  end  [single]  or 
elevated  [double]. 


erawford  Ranges 
are  Sold  By  Pro- 
ireaalve  Dealers 
Everywhere, 


Walker  &  Pratt  Mfg.  Co., 
Malcflrs,  Bosloa 


Buy  advertised  Good*  —  do  not  accept  subatitutea 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


The  D-oss  Squirrel 

Once  there  was  a  squirrel  that  did 
not  like  his  home,  and  he  used  to  scold 
and  find  fault  with  everything.  His 
papa  squirrel  had  long,  gray  whiskers, 
and  so  was  wise  —  besides  which  he 
could  shake  his  whiskers  quickly. 

"My  dear,  as  you  do  not  like  your 
home,  there  are  three  sensible  things 
you  could  do : — 

"Leave  it,  or  change  it,  or  suit  your- 
self to  it.  Any  one  of  these  would 
help  you  in  your  trouble." 

But  the  squirrel  said, — 

"Oh,  I  do  not  want  to  do  any  of 
those:  I  would  rather  sit  on  a  branch 
of  a  tree  and  scold." 

"Well,"  said  the  papa  squirrel,  "if 
you  must  do  that,  whenever  you  want 
to  scold,  just  go  out  on  a  branch  and 
scold  away  at  some  one  you  do  not 
know," 

The  little  squirrel  blushed  so  much 
that  he  became  a  red  squirrel,  and  you 
will  notice  to  this  day  red  squirrels 
do  just  that  thing. — Selected. 

Knew  her  Rights 

"I  tell  you  I  won't  have  this  room," 
protested  the  old  lady  to  the  boy  ia 
buttons  who  was  conducting  her,  "I 
ain't  goin*  to  pay  my  money  for  a 
pigsty  with  a  measly  little  foldin'  bed 
in  it.  If  you  think  that  just  because 
I'm  from  the  country " 

Profoundly  disgusted,  the  boy  cut  her 
short.  "Get  in,  mum.  get  in,"  he 
ordered.  "This  ain't  yer  room.  This 
is  the  elevator." 


"Ye  have  a  fine  bunch  of  boys,  Mike," 
said  one  Irishman  to  another,  "Indeed 
I  have,  and  I've  never  had  need  to 
raise  hand  against  'em  exdpt  in  self- 

difince!" 


LICATION 

W(   wUIhbihm  Buila  tajoar  nnt,  (laliUik.  *lT«tl>a,   1mr\tM 


DUGDALB  CO..  229  Dufdilc  fiulldiiic,  TiiblBpoB.  D.  C 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  subititutei 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertbed  Goods  —  do  not  accept  tubititutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Dsme  aod  Tonn  on  •  poaUi  for  l 

S  AMPLE  FREE,  •>oa|k  to  mikm  \ 
onapinti  ftbo  MlnntaoMtt  Cook  Boak.  \ 

~  nafAaMmiA-BubDa  'i 


■nronTAFiou  CO..IIU  w.ii>i*b..or 


The  Dessert  is  the 
most  glorious  part 
of  a  good  meal. 

Plum  Pudding  is  acknowledged  to  be 
the  most  delicious  and  satisfving  of  all 
winter  desserts — but  the  Plum  Pud- 
ding must  be  good  and  it  must  be  pure 
to  be  throughly  enjoyed.  For  over 
71  years 

ATMORE'S 

PHILADELPHIA 

Plum  Pudding 

I  Bet  «lr  Ae  BM 
rrblhi  hoai*M.m 

"S^'^i^^i^^ii^mZtUfai  boil  toe  n 
JThrA*  !»-&>■  vocoasr 

ATMORE    ft    SON 

110  Taakar  StrMt 


In  BriUat-Savaiin's  great  work,  "The 
Physiology  of  Taste,"  are  axi(»ns  as 
profound  —  at  least,  as  entertaining  — 
as  ever  Plato  or  Bpictetus  set  down. 
For  example: 

"Digestion,  of  all  bodily  functions, 
has  most  influence  on  the  morals  of  the 
individual." 

"A  good  dinner  is  but  little  dearer 
than  a  bad  one." 

"The  most  momentous  dedstons  of 
persona]  and  of  material  life  are  made 
at  table." 

"The  fate  of  nations  depends  on  bow 
they  are  fed." 

"The  man  of  sense  and  culture  alone 
understands  eating." 

"The  discovery  of  a  new  dish  does 
more  for  the  happiness  of  the  human 
race  than  the  discovery  of  a  planet."  — 
Exchange. 

Deep  breathing  aids  digestion,  en- 
courages liver  and  bowel  action,  develops 
the  lungs,  and  purifies  the  blood.  The 
only  directions  needed  are:  Hold  the 
chest  high  and  breathe  as  deep  as  you 
can  ten  or  twenty  times  every  hour, 
or  oftener.  The  best  "breath"  gym- 
nastics are  swimming,  hill-climbing,  and 
rapid  walking  or  running.  Always 
breathe  through  the  nose.  In  walldng, 
always  hold  the  chest  high  and  carry 
it  well  to  the  front.  Swing  the  arms 
moderately,  and  walk  fast  enough  to 
hasten  the  breathing  a  httle.  Nine 
miles  a  day  at  the  rate  of  three  miles 
an  hour  is  the  proper  distance  for  the 
average  adult.  Most  housekeepers  and 
laborers  do  more. 


An  English  rector  preached  a  s 
sermon  on  the  eternal  fate  of  the 
wicked.  Meeting  an  old  woman  noted 
for  her  gossiping  disposition,  he  said 
to  her:  "I  hope  my  sermon  has  borne 
fruit  in  your  mind.  You  heard  what 
I  said  about  that  place  where  there 
shall  be  wailing  and  gnashing  ctf  teet^?" 
"Well,  as  to  that,"  answered  the  dame, 
"if  I  'as  anything  to  say,  it  be  this: 
Let  them  gnash  their  teet^as  'as  'em, — 
I  ain't!" — Youth's   Companion. 


Buy  advertieed  Goods — do  not  accept  tubstiti 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


From  the  Deep, 
Blue  Pacific 

AVA  LONc  •"'TU  N  A 

CaUfijmia's  Msh  De  Luxe 

A  special  tieat  from  the  clear  waters  of  the  Pacific 
Ocean. 

AVALON  Brand  TUNA  is  a  deep  sea  fish,  and  it 
is  common  knowledge  that  deep  sea  fish  are  the  beA 
in  flavor.  The  deep  sea  TUNA,  found  off  the  coaA  , 
of  Southern  California  and  packed  under  the 
AVALON  BRAND,  has  the  most  delightful  flavor 
of  them  all. 

Open  up  a  can  of  AVALON  Brand  TUNA— take 
out  the  fresh,  sweet,  pure  white  tuna  meat — take  it 
just  as  it  comes  from  the  sanitary  package,  and  make 
it  into  a  salad — serve  this  salad  to  your  fcunily  and 
guests  and  see  if  they  can  tell  it  from  tender  breaA 
of  chicken.     They  simply  can't. 

For  Savory  Dinner  Dishes 

""■It  beats  meat  in  many  ways. 

^It  is  less  expensive  and  easier  to  serve. 

^You  can  (irepare  it  in  a  hundred  different 

ways,  either  as  fish  or  meat 
^^^rder  a  trial  can  from  your  grocer. 

Tuna  Receipt  Booklet  1p  D 1^  P 
Silver  Premium  Littl- nUrD 

TAa  labels  from  A  VALON  Brand 
TUNA  tins  may  be  exchanged  for 
Rogers'  guaranteed  Silver  Premiums. 

Write  for  our  complete  list  of  these 
valitable  premiums  and  our  FREE 
Receipt  Booklet. 

The  Van-Thomas  Company 

353  EAST  SECOND  ST. 
Loi  Angalai,  Califtunik 


Buy  advertited  Goods  —  do  not  accept  subtfitutea 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


'^OThoBdaydiiineis 

—here's  a  fine 

fiist  course 


Y  — delicious  clam  soup  froni  Pioneer 
Miaced  Sea  Clams.  Only  in  the  spark- 
ling white  Band  of  the  North  Pacific 
shoreB  are  tender,  juicy  Razor  clams 
like  Ihoe  found.  Thcr  re  paclwd  when  fat  and 
lender.  Eacb  cliim  la  Indlviduallr  clcsniol. 
You  set  the  fresh  ■«■  Bavoi — prewired  by  our 
proccu,  orisioBled  in  ISM. 

PIONEER 

■^S"  CLAMS 

Bold  by  STDcen  who  cater  to  the  moit  putlcoUr 
tisde.    If  you  can'l  find  them 

Order  a  Can  by  Parcel  Port 


Free  Book  o(  Rsdpes 

formiliEnf  »upi.  chAwdn-,  BlBcU^Htten,  L 
and  other  dtlKtable  dithc*  with  PionHr  I 
Minced  Sa  n.i..      (jiva  duler'i  nam 

Sea  Beach  Packing  Work* 
105  Pacific  A*...  AbudMn.  Wadb    . 


BT  rAICEL  rOST  rREPAO  $2.00 

SIX  CUT  GLASS  SHERBERTS 

You  can  serve  Fruit  Salads,  Des- 
serts or  Preserved  Fruits  in  these 
dainty  cut  glass  dishes.  No  lunch- 
dinner  complete  without 
-J  —  ubeolutely  guaranteed  cut 
ilass.    Money  back  if  not  pleased.     Order 


them.    They  are  absolutely  guaranteed  cut 

3 lass.    Money  back  if  not  pi         ■       -    ■ 
irect  from  this  advertisement. 


We  are  not  even  going  lo  the  upenuof  printed  milter. 

dinct  from  ourlaclory.    Order  now  for  CtirUtnuu. 

AddrM.  Dapt.  A. 

ORIENTAL  CUT  GLASS  CO. 

•  Sik  Dhrfafoa  SliMt  BUFFALO,  N.  Y. 


SEND  us  two  NEW  yearly 
StdacTipihna<U$LOO  eachand 
we  will  renew  your  ou!n  sif&- 
KiipUon  one  year  free,  as  pre- 
mium. 
THB  BOSTOir  COOKING-SCHOOL 
HAGAZUTE  CO. 
B08T0H.  MASSACHUSETTS 


All  of  the  trouble  that  the  housewife 
has  with  Canned  Foods  is  caused  by 
imperfect  tin  cans  or  difficulty  in  open- 
ing the  can. 

Occasionally  the  solder  used  in  mak- 
ing the  can  does  not  run  evenly,  caus- 
ing a  very  slight  hole  which  allows  the 
air  to  gradually  leak  into  the  can,  re- 
sulting in  an  accumulation  of  gas  and 
spoilage  of  the  contents.  Such  cans 
always  show  the  presence  of  gas  by 
puffing  or  swelling  at  the  top  or  bottom. 

Before  opening  a  tin  of  Canned  Foods 
of  any  kind,  whether  they  be  packed 
at  home  or  not,  you  should  examine 
the  top  and  bottom,  and  if  they  are 
convex  or  puffed  it  is  a  sure  indication 
that  the  contents  is  spoiled  and  should 
be  discarded. 

If  the  can  is  perfect  you  can  be  sure 
that  the  contents  are  in  perfect  con- 
dition. In  opening  remove  the  label 
so  that  you  can  see  the  seam  on  the 
side  of  the  can;  lay  the  can  on  its  side 
and  insert  the  can-opener  right  next 
to  this  seam  and  very  close  to  the 
top.  Now  hold  the  can  firmly  on  the 
table  in  an  upright  position  and  work 
the  can-opener  away  from  the  seam 
until  you  have  cut  entirely  around 
the  can.  You  will  then  be  able  to 
turn  back  the  entire  top,  and  if  the 
can  is  held  firmly  there  is  no  danger 
of  cutting  the  hands  and  the  fruit 
will  not  be  mutilated  when  it  is  poured 
from  the  tin. 


Robert:  "Mamma,  my  stomach  sa>-s 
it  is  dinner  time."  Mamma:  "You'd 
better  go  and  see  what  time  it  is." 
Robert  (after  an  inspection  of  the  clock) : 
"Well,  mamma,  my  stomach's  three 
minutes  fast." — Life. 


Your  attention  is  called  to  the  adver- 
tisement of  the  Sawyer  Crystal  Blue  Co. 
on  the  cover  of  this  magazine.  This  firm 
is  making  a  very  attractive  offer  of  evapo- 
rated cranberries  by  parcel  post.  Drop 
a  postal  to  them  at  S8  Broad  Street, 
Boston  and  have  them  send  you  the 
particulars  of  their  offer. — Adv. 


Buy  adevrtucd  Goods  —  do  not  accept  Mibatitute* 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Ask  for  Easy 
Cooking  /-  y^^r 

Christmas  Present 


Tell  thciti  to  give  you  a  seamless^ 
aluminum-Jined  Caloric,  with  steam  valve 
attachment,  that  roasts  meals,  hakes 
bread,  pies  and  cake,  besides  cooking 
everything  else  you  eat. 

Saves  the  hours  you  now  spend  standing 
over  the  steaming  stove,  bending  to  open 
a  red-hot  oven  every  few  minutes.  When 
food  is  ready  for  cooking  you  are  through. 

Cooks  without  watehiHg.  No  danger  of 
shrinking,  scorching  or  spoiling.  Every- 
thing doubly  delicious,  with  double  n^tri- , 
tive  value.    Fuel  cost  cut  to  a  fraction. 

The  Caloric  is  the  only  Fireless  made 
witha  seamless  aluminum  lining,  the  ff«^ 
Fireless  with  the  steam  valve  attachment. 

Has  been  twice  endorsed  by  the  Good 
Housekeeping  Iflstitute,  first  in  1910,  again 
January  1918. 

For  the  thousands  who  wish  to  give  or 
receive  this  splendid  Christmas  present 
we  have  instituted  our 

THE  CALORIC  COMPANY.  Dept. 


Christmas  Crated  Caloric 

A  Special  $2^5   Gift  Comn  With  It 

Every  woman  who  received  this  hand- 
some, white-wrapped,green-crated  package, 
tied  with  "jolly  Holly  red  "  will  also  receive 
a  valuable  present  from  us.  It  would  cost 
$2.2^  if  you  bought  it  for  yourself ;  is  some- 
thing every  housekeeper  needs  and  wants. 

It  is  not  a  part  of  Caloric  Equipment 
but  a  Special  Christmas  Extra,  yours  only 
this  Christmas  time. 

Write  us  and  we  will  send  you  the  name 
of  the  dealer  who  can  show  you  this  free 
Caloricgift.  There  is  only  one  in  your  city. 
Nine  out  of  ten  dealers  will  disappoint  you. 

The  only  way  to  insure  receiving  it  and 
also  seeing  the  real  Caloric  Fireless  Cook 
Stove,  is  to  visit  this  one  dealer.  Better 
learn  his  name  at  once  by  writing  us 
today.  tw 

37,  JANESVILLE,  WISCONSIN 


Buy  «dvertiacd  Goods  —  do  not  accept  pibrtitutea 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOI.  MAGAZINE 


Make   Your 

XMAS 
CANDY 


KNOX  Peuiut 

Sak  1  w4opi  KNOX  Cd 


^3i^udbq!lJ«lTlSllil><M>    ,■*« 
ind  kU    I    cup  II  DM    PT?*^  .LI  L 


W-ipu  m  »U  w«i  iiJh«.,=AiB«.iiil.i«k.d«4 
dKinch.  UnundowBslii;  MiBi"»«™™l 
nU  ■  2  aw  nutad  psiuili.  dudiad. 

Sead  All-  FSE£  Candv  S.eeipt 

2e  itov  and  (rwr't  unu. 

CHARUS  B.  KNOX  CO.,  7  Km  A», 


Exquisite  Desserts 

and 

Delicious 
Ice    Cream 

Hade  With 

Junket  Tablets 

Your  grtxxT  or  druggist  sells  them 
or  we  mail  postpaid  ten  tablets  to 
make  ten  quarts  for  10  cents  and 
give  you  the  charming  brpchure 
"Junket  Dainties"  free. 

CHR.    HANSEN'S 
LABORATORY 

Box  2507.  Little  Falls,  N.  Y. 


Be  the  "Best  Cook"  in  your  family 

Yoa  do  not  need  to  boT  niort  ejperri"  food*  nor» 
»rletylDord(ttobe(htooakln  roar  f  oinl*.  Jm 
to  cDBinan  place.  eii«nr-d>r  dUbes  >  dub  « 

enCiffiN  BOUQUET 

Kittfhn  Bouvit  riTH  «n  moBm.  (ti»1»,  •ftnfH,  *■■■  •■ 
THE  PALISADE  HFS.  CO,  SQ  CUUta  *»_  W«l  H«fc«ta»-ll-i. 


A  Real  Holiday  Conlection 

Th«l  •iiy«>«  «m  n>«k«  «  home  wr 
tha  atore  or  in  Um  dufiiisdiili,  it 


I  taipwBfiil  J  hW^iK  Cwk 
15  miauM.  Tika  ofi  ud  bol 
until  B~iH.   Pus  oo  bunsed  lAblE. 


le  iki  SaTon  wlata  ui 


Crocsr*  S*ff  A 

S<^  Zc  itup  tor  Reap*  BmA 

CRESCENT  MANUFACTURING  CO. 

DcpL  K  SEATTLE.  WH. 


Buy  sdverliaed  Goods  —  do  not  accept  Bubstitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


S  EVIDENCE  of  what  we  italed  in  oui  pteviMH 
Bctvertuemral  in  thk  Mftgazine,  that  the 


SILVER-CLEAN  PAN 

ii  now  a  necenity,  we  quote  from  an  article  in  The 
Housekeeper  Magazme,  March  1912  iuue,  over  the 
Hgnature  o(  Margaret  Soundittoot,  Teachers  CoHege, 
Columhia  University,  as  follows: 

"The  task  (^  silvct  cleaning  need  not  appall  the 

housekeeper,  as  there  it,  for  instance,  now  on  the  market 

a  SILVER-CLEAN  PAN  thai,  as  its  maker  My^ 

"  makes  the  tarnish  vanish  like  clouds  before  the  morning 

sun."     In  using  this  all  that  one  hst  lo  do  is  to  place  the 

htJ«.ll,l«l.«JAi,.U,II«  ,^rticle^  to  be  cleaned  (gold  «  »aver)  in  the  pan  in  a 

solution  of  warm  water,  baking  soda  and  ordinary  table  salt,  leaving  ihem  there  from  one  to  five 

minute*.     All  thai  it  then  required  is  lo  rinse  the  silver  and  dry  it  with  a  clean  chamois  skb  or 

toll  cloth.     In  fact,  this  pan  does  away  with  all  the  dreaded  labor  of  cleaning  the  silver.    Elalxv 

rale  silver,  such  as  toilet  articles,  may  be  cleaned  in  the  tame  way  with  no  effort  whatsoever. 

Not  the  slightest  injury  is  done  the  silver  and  it  will  have  a  lutlei  like  new." 

It  seems  useless  for  us  lo  say  mote,  as  undoubtedly  most  of  the  subtciibert  to  this  magazine 
ue  acquainted  with  Margaret  Soundslrom's  writiDgs  on  Domestic  Science,  and  further  know  she 
would  not  recommend  it  before  making  a  thorough  test  and  research  as  lo  its  merits.     ' 

On  demonalratfoii  »t  the  store  of  Jordan  Marsh  Co.,  Home  Funuihin^  Departmeiit. 
Second  Floor,  New  Buildiof.  Boston. 

THE  VANCE  SALES  CO,       44  India  Street,      BOSTON,  MASS. 

Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  ausbtitui«s 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


A  Perfect  Knife  for  Grape  Fruit 

The  bUda  of  thii  knife  Is  made  trom  the  flneat  entlery  iteel,  fioelj  tenipered,  corred  jnct  to  Um 
right  Biigl«  and  ground  to  •  reiy  keen  edge,  will  ramoTe  the  eeoter,  «it  deanlf  and  qtdeUf  ftroond 
the  edge  and  dl^de  the  fruit  Into  i^tmots  ready  for  emting, 

Tbe  teatare  oC  the  bUde  litbi  ronnd  and  which  pnrctiticiittltic  thronvfa  the  oatar  ricln.  A  (tap*  finlt  kaUl 
ap«  fmlt  aie  (Towinc  K  rapldtr  in  populailtr  ai  a  breakfaat  frniL 


THE  EMPIRE  KNIFE  CO. 


Winsted,  Codo. 


MAGIC  COVER 

Ifatic  COTS'  for  Paatir  Boud  and  Oollliic  Flo;  ehamlcallr 
Iraatad  and  hrcienlc.  recommendeil  br  leadlnf  leachen  is 
CDoUni.    BrmaD.Mc. 

B.   F.  MACY 

hnvird  F.  k  WUKU  «  N.,  Hi  OUnt  HMm  Mm  la  In  Ei^Ml 
410  BoylatoB  Straat.  Boslon.  Hua. 


A  JB47  FWBisi£  HslOs 

/l«SS.       ^__        -.         _      


J 


Ji/ver  "Plate  that  Wears ^ 


L. 


e  Old  Colony 

A  de»gn  of  marked  individuaLly. 

Sold  by  leading  dealers. 
MiEMunsML  lavn  ca.,  KEma.  com. 

TIk  ■WorU'.  LjJtea  Mik™  d  Sndiri  Sa™  ™l  PUv. 


Bo;  jkdvertiKd  Uuodt  —  do  not  kccept  aubstitutei 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


wwm 


PEASE'S 

HOME  CANDY  MAKER 

IS  OUR  LA-nST  BOOK  In  which  w«  l«w:h  tod  aQ  tha 
MCnlBof  CBDdr  mmkinti.aDcli  u  prDfaslanaLi uie.  Biid 
tb«r  ara  wilttsa  tot  bonie  dm  and  ae  dmpUflcd  that  a 
child  can  Daka  tbeB.  Tbe  author,  Ur.  H.  A.  Fease,  i* 
the  oricinalor  et  ttil*  method  of  home  candr  makinc.  hav- 
Inf  wTitteD  two  prerloo*  booka.  which  were  tt  <M>  propo- 
rinona.>Dd  now  we  offer  toa  thli  one  at  onlr  n.w. 
IleontainapncticalrBlltheBecnte  tfaa  ta.oe  book*  do, 
and  aleo  eome  new  redpe*  whi(^  were  nerer  pubUihed 
befuce,  hot  beet  of  an,  tt  explaUia 

The  Use  of  Com  Syrup 
in  Candy  Making 


:h  ALONE  ia  worth 


$1.00 

andtnarantaetarefniidronrinoncTiryon  are  not  mora 
tbanplaBaed.  If  roa  wiatk  It.  a  dcacriptire  booldet  li 
ronia  for  tlie  aikinc. 

PEASE  BROTHERS 

box  206  Eldln.  nis. 


r  «dvertU«l  Gvoda—  do  not  Mocpt  mbMitatM 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


^t^gPHttottB  fat  ^ifmtmwsi  (iit£tB 


of  vour  frioidi  to  whom  you  will  moke  Chblmaa  Gffla  be  moi«  pleaaed 
•  ■     lo  THE  BOSTON  COOKIN&5CHOOL  MAGAZINE 


W)ULDnoti 
witbayeaT'*! 
llian  wilh  any  other  thmg  d  equal  cost  you  could  lend  them? 
The  Magazine  will  be  oi  practical  use  to  the  ledpient  365  SINIi*«Ba 
daya  m  the  year  and  a  axutant  and  pleaunl  temindei  of  the  III  ,  ^, ... 
dcQoi.  M 

To  make  dm  ^  more  complete,  we  wiO  tend  die  December  tt 

numbei  fo  as  to  be  received  the  day  before  Chitrimat,  to^elAer  S  _, 

wAA  a  card  reading  a»  per  cut  herewith ;  M  "^  ^  ""^  •^■"  7~*^^  *  B 

The  card  it  printed  in  two  colon  on  heavy  itock  and  S|^»j^— |^»^^^^^^S 
,  handtome  louvcnii.  W^W^^^^^W^W^^HR 


The  Bert  Complete  Cook 

Bonk  ret  tH^dkbecL 

IN  COMBINATION:  POSTPAID 

The  Magazine,  for  one  year  and  any  one  of 
Mn.  Hill'i  booki  for  $2.23  :  magazine  and 
any  two  of  Mn.  Hill's  books.  $3.30 ;  magazine 
and  any  three  of  Mn.  Hill'i  books  for  $5.00. 
magazine  and  any  four  of  Mis.  Hill's  books, 
(6.00;  magazine  and  all  five  of  Mn.  Hill's 
books,  $7.00. 

OUR  SPECIAL    ANNUAL 

CHRISTMAS  OFFER 

Send  us  two  new  yeady  subscriptioni  at 

$  I    each,  and  we  wilt  renew  your  own  lub- 

tcripdon  for  one  year  from  present  date  of  ex> 

picatioQ  FREE,  at  premium. 

,__ ,  _.  _      '    You  caD  easily  secure  the  new  tubtcripdont 

doten.  Of  is  one  beneU.        among  your  friends  and  to  obtain  the  msigazine 

fta  another  year  without  co»t  to  yourself.     Or,  you  might  give  the  magazine  ai  i 

to  two  friends  and  to  make  two  dollars  do  the  work  of  three. 

TJw  Book*  ud  IihcuiiM  bv  ba  hbI  to  III*  wm*  or  to 

No  premiums  are  pven  on  these  combinatioD  offers,  and  the  subscriptiOD  to  the  magazine  mutt 
be  a  NEW  (Hie.  Send  in  your  order  at  once.  The  bookt  will  be  sent  so  as  to  be  receiwd  the 
day  b^ore  Christmas. 

orferSVo    The  Boston   Cooking -School  Magazine,  Boston,  Mass. 


Olhat..- , 

Vrlkcdur  ilie  keepi  m 


a  Chnttmai  g9l 


Buy  advertised  Goodi  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


BOOKS  for  the  HONE 
AND   HOMEMAKERS 


Easy  Meals 


By  CAROLINE  FRENCH  BENTON,  Bnthi 


!■  for  breakruts,  li 


MpflT.  conitotliis 


1,  etc.  Chanten  i. 

■Dd  i> KTlea of  meoTa.ttt  ■!)  the  year. 
P0JI7 unutratad.   Clotb.umo,>i.>»aet. 

Like  Mother  Used  to  Make 

BrCHRISTINBTERHUNE  HEKRICK,  a  daocttter 
of  Marion  Hailnnd. 
It  coataiut  chapter*  en:    BTeadn  o'  VhtIcmh  So^— 


eather  Recip«-E< 


lo  Hnusekeepiiw    UlM 


Fairs  and  Fetes 

Bt  CAROLINE  rRENCH   BKNTON.  anthor  of  "A 
Litllg  CooK  Book  for  a  Little  drl."  "Marcwefa 
SnturdBv  Morn  ion."  et<^' 
fuUv UliutrHted.    OoUi.kt^DCl. 

Practical  Sewing  and 
Dressmaking 

Br  SARA  MAY  ALUNOTON. 


My  Boy  and  1.    By  His 
Mother 

By  CHRISTINE  TERHUNE   HESRICK.  autHor  of 
"Uke  tiotber  Vae-i  lo  Uake."  etc; 
Cannatfall  tobe  of  ireat  »»""*» n re  nndTaluelo 
all  parenta.  saardians.  teachen 


hthebrinslllcupDt  )Kir*and|irl8. 

Woman's  Club  Work 
Programs 

BvCAROUNB  FRENCH  BENTON,  author. 
!...•..»•  T.lttlj^  "^'tfjLuv  KriTi^rtBiniiiir.'*  el 


and 


.  You  Mar  be  Sure  He  Geta  It 


bod^.  saint  and  sinner,  lilcea  i^ 
A  ireat  vanely  of  ttaenott  delicious  deue 


Each  in  a  Kparate  paduse.  10  cenla  at  any  eirocer's. 

Tbc  bunUlnl  recipe  bofric,  'VbL  Fanunn  Cooka." 
Ulnalrated  la  brUllaal  cotora,  will  be  aest  lo  all 
wbo  write  sad  aaic  tm  lor  IL 
TBI  SEHESIS  pun  FOOD  C0„  URn.  H-T..! 


365 


NEW  RECIPES 
NEW  MENUS 

By  FANNIE  MERRTTT  FARMER 

A*W  .1 'TU  B-ta.  C«tof  SA«I  C«k  fc*." 

THE 

DINNER 
CALENDAR 

FOR 

1914 

Conlainidg  365  original  Menu  and  Recipei,  ooe  fa(  ca^ 
day  in  the  year.  Handiome  cover  in  ait  papa,  pr-"-* 
in  gold,  blue  and  light  green.  Each  page  bu  an  i 
bordei  de^  printed  in  two  coloii.  Th»  «  bj  lai  Ibe 
moit  elaborate  calendai  of  in  kind  ever  placed  upon  the 
maAet.  ,  , 

Price  60c.  boxed 

SOLLY  AND  KLEINTEICH 

373  FOURTH  AVENUE,   NEW  YOHK 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  subBtitutei 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


PREMIUMS 


Experience  has  shown  that  the  most  satisfactory  way  to 

enlarge  the  subsciiptioii  list  of  The  Boston  CooIrinfC  School  Magasine  is  tiinmch  Us 
present  subscribers,  who,  persimally,  can  vouch  for  the  value  of  the  pubUcatioD. 
To  make  it  an  object  for  subscribers  to  secure  new  subscribers,  we  <^er  the  fid- 
lowing  premiums: 
COPfOITIONS  t  Pmninina  an  not  Elv*n  uith  m  ■ubacripdon  or  An- «  renewal,  tmt  oalr  to 
prm—ni  aubKriben,  tor  Mcnriiig  and  BBading  to  ua  imw  ytaxly  asbacrip- 


dona  at  (i-OO  eacb.    The  nuniber  of  new  aubaeriptiooa  required  to  aecura  each  premium  la  clearljr 
atated  below  the  deacription  of  the  premium, 

Traniportation  i*  or  i*  not  paid  w*  atated. 
Our  Praailuiu  ar*  itnadard  tosd*.  J»l  laah  ■■  ara  taU  at  tba  Iwtlar  ■cor**,  ara  iralt  worth  Iha  »rlaa,  i 
ha*a  alnn  salTanal  HllilaatlvK. 


SOMETHING  NEW 

At«<reiT*ocl*l  ftmdioa  herein  theeaat  tiof 
cakea  are  lerred,  baked  in  tina  Uke  thoae  ahown 
in  the  lllnalTaboD.  Ileae  tim  are  Impottedi 
beauttfnlly  made  ftom  tctj  heary  tin,  and  are 
flrat-claai,  A-No.  1  in  every  reapect. 

Here  i«  one  Oood  Recipe  to  Try. 
POUND  CAKE  FOR  LITTLE  TINS. 
j(  cnpflqpr 
>j  teaipoonful  baking 

powder  (level) 

y  teupoonfiil  mace 

or  miiK  S  egg  wliltes 

Pat  a  little  of  the  mixtnre  in  the  center  of  ead 

tint  the  beat  of  the  oren  will  came  it  to  run  and 

fill  the  tins.    Tie  recipe  nwkei  abont  itxty  little 

cake*.     Spread  oonfi^tioner'a  Idng  on  the  top 

or  leave  plain. 

One  of  these  tins,  baking  l«  little  cakea  (aUU  which  deaign  yon  wiih),  tent,  portpald.  for  two 

(3)  new  lubacriptioni.     (Price  SI- 28.) 


U  cup  butter 
}i  cupiunr 
»,<«B  yolka 
)i  tableipoonftal  bi 


Every  One  Who  Ha*  lacalved  One  of  Tkea* 

CHAFING  DISHES 

Baa  Been  Dallihiad  With  It 

and  aniprijed  how  easily  the  neoeaeary  infaaetlptlaiia 
were  aecured.  Haro  yoa  obtained  one  yet  ?  If 
not,  atart  today  to  get  the  Babacripti<H»,  and  within 
three  or  four  dayi  yon  will  be  enjoying  the  di«A. 

This  Chafer  is  a  fttll-iiie,  three-pint,  copper  diah, 
nidel  plated,  with  all  the  latest  improvementa,  in- 
cluding bandies  on  the  hot  water  pan.  Can  be  fara- 
labed  copper  Snlab  If  dealred. 

Sent  for  seven  (7)  new  mbecriptioofl,  expreas 
charges  to  be  paid  by  receiver.    (Price  $9>00>)  r 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE.  BOSTON,  MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  subatitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


PREMIUMS 


Sterling  Silver 

Not  to  c^led  premliim  goodi,  but 
Uw  tMue  weight  aad  pattem  u  sold  b^ 
tbe  better  dty-  jcwelen.  Something 
ereiy  womBU  will  be  glad  to  own. 

Six  (t)  K>M  iteriing  after  dioner 
Coffee  SpooUBeDt.^TcpBid  for  six  (6) 
new  aabacriptloiii.    Price  S4.S0. 

Sugar  ToDgi,  Batne  pattern.  Bent 
prepaid,  for  three  (3)   new  snbicrip- 

I.    Price  SZ.ZB. 

ID-Bon  Spoon,  sent,  prepaid  for 
thr««  (3)  new  nibacriptionB.  Price 
92.28. 


ChaflBd  Diah,  Poric aod Spoon,  Brass  Glow  Nl^t  Lamp.  ...  „.„  n„..    ti... 

jicM  pb^  .bon.  b^yTS  ;™K5^;;...h.,.jj.£....,«.  "•. "•-<,?'S'p.,'?.'£ 

MOt  prepaid     for     three     (3)    new  sickroom. nu™eryor  b»throom   Bunu  '""Ide  the  oven.  Accarate,  t«- 

rabscripUoua    Price   SI.OO    eadi.  .weekniihonetfllina.  Sentprep.idfor  '"'''■■..■?^'=f''"?,T ^-     =?!!' 

Sl.rs  for  both.  <»"  l'>  ■""  ■>'i>«ni'a<»»    r^  7n«.  ^^t-^nJ^pl,";  ii.sa!  " 


Hahojanlte   Coaalar   Set 

It  ia  now  qnite  the  proper 
thing  to  n*e  theie  coaaters  for 
water  glaiees.  The  let  offered 
ij  bigh  grade  in  erery  particnlar 
and  will  beautify  any  table. 
Nickel  plated.  Waiter  It  InehM 
in  diameter,  coasten  3X  inche*. 
The»rt;  waiter  and  ^xcoaater* 
■eat,  prepaid,  for  ten  (10)  Bob- 
■cripttona.     Price  S8.00. 

Coaiten  alone,  one  Bent, 
prepaid, for  onB(I)  •nbacription. 
Price  SO  casta  each. 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE.  BOSTON,  MASS. 

Buy  advcrtiNd  Goodi  —  do  not  accept  Hibrtitutca 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Buy  advertiied  GoodB  —  do  not  accept  lubititute* 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


(OVELTY 

Decorations 

Far  ni  BUMin 


STATS      -       BOSTON      ijj^^  pr.{«.i.u«  <». 

'  14  SOMERSET  STREET  pkic'i  nFrr  ctb. 


Bettor  bread  and  more  of  it — that 
is  a  good  modon  ideaL 

Fleischmann's  Yeast 

helps  it  to  come  true.  It  makes  it 
easy  to  make  good  bread.  Ournew 
Redpe  Book  tells  how. 


The  Fleischmann  Company 

711  WiaUatfui  Stra«t  IC«v  Tnk  Clljr 


IVe  haoe  an  Attractive 
Proposition 

ta  make  to  thoM  who  will  take  nib- 
ifoc 


THE  BOSTON 

COOKING-SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE 

Write  m  if  you  wiih  to  canvata  you 
town  oc  if  you  with  to  tecure  only  a  tew 
oamn  smoog  your  hiendt  and  acquaiol- 
ancet.  Start  the  -work  at  <Mice  and  you 
wil  be  MiriHriKd  how  eanly  you  can  earn 
Mb.  twcn^  oi  fifty  doUan. 

Addtt. 

SUBSCRIPTION  DEPARTME^f^ 

Boston  Cooking-Schooi 

Magazine  Co. 
BOSTON.  MASSACHUSEXn 


Something  New 
In  Gifts  This  Year! 


I  spukle  tKvoDd  o 


ELECTRO 
SILICON 

POLISHING  CREAM 
FREE    SAMPLE 

~  Sold  by  Grocer*  and  Dtukkisk-  « 


Domestic  Science 

Home- Study  Coura«* 
Food,    healUi,    bouaeke^HK,    dothliu,    dilldran. 
For  homeniBken,  tcachen  mni  for 
well-paid  poiltiont. 
"THE  PROFESSION  OF  HOME-MAKING."  10» 
Mge  haodbook,  FREE.    Bnlletlni:  "Fan  Hamk 
Ooosmo,"   10  centi.     "Food   ViLCB,"    10  oanta. 
"  Tax  Up-to-Dati  Hokk,"  U  cents. 

U.  SCHOOL  OF  IIOK  ECOWHICS,  E03 1.  Wk  «.,CIIIGUO 


Perfect  Cooking 

Vilb  Leiil  TrottUe  and  Expansa 


The  Chamben 


and  doe»  the  work  of  both — 

HMdaeu  and  flavor  Pari  for 
ftaelf  in  better  (nod  ttDd  tbe 
BOgtuelsajinj^    »o  *1m.  iwmI 

MtjltM.    CotBlop*  fHXE. 

DOMESTIC  EQUIPMENT  CO- 

MW.  tak>St.CUta(* 


Buy  advertised  Goods-^o  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


p^ENUINE  hand-made  lace  is  becoming  very  rare.  Travelers  who  pass 
n|  through  the  countries  famous  for  lace-maldng  find  but  few  places 
1  where  machines  of  some  kind  are  not  used. 


Go  where  you  w     ,  _ 

lUtement  which  ia  proven  by  the  foltowinfr  directioiii  received  trom  o 

nuken  of  St.  Gall  in  far-off  Snitzerluid. 

To  Wub  DeBcate  L*e««  mkI  Emfaraidario* 


A 


/**    IVORY  SOAP.  .  . 


99a^HJRE 


A 


Buy  advertiNd  Goodi  ^  do  not  MOBpt  mbititul 


SEUINGTON-URQUHART  PRESS 
U4  CONGRESS  ST,  BOSTON 


ONE   QUART 
-CAPE  COD  — 

GruberrieS 

EVAPORATED 
For   cl^hl   2-C«at 

•tanpa  mailed 
anywhere  la  the 
United  1 


By  our  new  process,  we  evaporate 
Cape  Cod  Cranberries  heaki  from  the 
vines  so  they  retain  dieir  natural  (niit 
flavor,  pack  them  in  sealed  packaeei 
so  they  can  be  shipped  all  over  me 
world  and  used  all  tnrough  the  year. 


](  jrouT  pocer  don't  ke^  llwia  Kod  IB  hi> 
at  >iKlKldreawilhft-2eeDlM>mp«fofa 
[.  vqual  to  one  quart  fraih  cran- 

■       by  »«[.  poWp«id  in  ihe  U.  S. 


fc 


SAWYER  CRYSTAL  BLUE  COMPANY 

Sail  Silllaf  AltiU,  SS  Bnad  SL.  BmI*ii.  Mau..U.  S.  A. 
SEND  rOSTALFOR  PMCEL  POST  OFfEK  IT  TU  BOID 


"CKoisa" 
Ceylon  Tea 


lib. 
Cmittin 
SQCintt 

1-2  lb. 
Giniiten 
3SGeah 


Pure 

Rich 

Fragrant 


Beautiful  Spoons 

9  PincticallyFree.  AititticRoKPattaii.inncn 
*"  tnch  gray  fiouh,  Rogcn  AA  SilTcrpUtt 

We  want  you  to  know  by 
j  actual  trial  how  the  genuine 

,  UEBI6 

\  GOMPMrS  EXTRACT  OF  BEEF 

wMk  Wh  iloXin  aOM  At  bkl 
wldi  richneu  wkI  BaTM  Is  cook, 
iat  ttimuUtci  appatte  and  oncn    j 
thegrealotaidlopcriecldlgeition.    I 
E^oaomical;  a  Utle  goa  nich  ■ 
long  way  in  kitchen  ot  Bckmom. 
CXJRNULLE  dIK'id  a  CO.. 


Packed  in  Parchment-lined 

One  pound  and  half-pound  Canisters 

We  invite  eompariaon  with  other  Teiu  of 
th»  tame  or  higher  price 

S.  S.  PIERCE  CO. 

BOSTON       -       -       -       -       PBOOHXINB 


pianos! 


THOSE  FIVE  AND  TEN-CENT   MEALS 

n 


OF 


«*& 


cr^. 


SIC'UM,   TIGE' 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


The  Secret  is  in 


the  Book 


THE  immense  popularity  of   Mrs.   Rorer's   Cook 
Books  lies  in  their  goodness  and  sureneiss.    Being 
thoroughly  practical,  she  knows  what  she  is  talk- 
ing about,  and  never  allows  you  to  make  a  mistake. 
With  her  own  hands  she  has  cooked  every  recipe  in 
her  books,   and  gives   the  right  ingredients  iand  the 

best  methods  of  cooking.  You  save  time,  worry  and  money 
by  knowing  you  cannot  fail  if  you  follow  her  directions.  And 
that's  another  thing — the  directions  are  so  easily  followed  that 
the  merest  novice  can  make  good.  Start  the  New  Year  by 
getting  one  of  these  books  as  a  guide. 

Mrs.  Rorer's  Philadelphia  Cook  Book 

Nearly  600  pages;  bound  in  washable  cloth,  price  $1.00 ;  by  mail  $1.15. 

Mrs.  Rorer's  New  Cook  Book 

A  bigger  book  and  more  advanced ;  illustrated  with  beautiful  half  tones; 
price  $2  00 ;  b       ail  $2.20. 

Mrs.  Rorer's 
Vegetable  Cookery  and  Meat  Substitutes 

The  greatest  vegetable  book  published ;  the  meat  substitutes  are  a  won- 
derful and  delectable  treat ;  price  $1.50  ;  by  mail  |1.65. 

Mrs.  Rorer's  Every  Day  Menu  Book 

Contains  a  menu  for  every  meal  in  the  year,  menus  for  all  Social  Occa. 
sions,  and  pictures  of  decorated  tables;  price  $hbO  ;  by  mail  $1.65. 


ilU  bookstores  and  department  stores  have  these  books 
or  can  get  them  for  you,  or  write  us 


ARNOLD  &  COMPANY,  420  Sansom  St.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


Buy  advertised  Goods— do  not  accept  substitutes 

417 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING 


SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Vol.  xvin 


JANUARY,  1914 


No.  6 


CONTENTS  FOR  JANUARY 


PAGE 


MENUS  FOR  FORMAL  DINNER  AND  LUNCHEON  IN 

JANUARY 425 

STORY  OF  AN  INTERIOR  (Illustrated)      .  Mantie  L.  Hunter  427 

ORNAMENTAL  CLOCKS  OF  FRANCE  (Illustrated) 

Frances  Sheafer  Waxman  431 

TWO  CITY  GIRLS  PIONEERING  IN  ARIZONA 

.    .     ., Julia  Davis  Chandler  434 

TEA  AT  THE  BLUE  SHIP Adele  Farmer  436 

A  HAPPY  NEW  YEAR L.  M.  Thornton  437 

AS  TO  THOSE  FIVE  AND  TEN-CENT  MEALS 

Gertrude  Clark  Hanson  438 

LINENS  FOR  THE  FAIR  BRIDE       .     .    Janet  Young  Norton  440 

WATCH  YOUR  STEP       Grace  Benton  Allen  Cook  442 

THE  VIGIL  KEEPERS Arthur  W.  Peach  446 

EDITORIALS 446-8 

SEASONABLE   RECIPES  (Illustrated  with  half-tone  engravings 

of  prepared  dishes)      , .      Janet  M.  Hill  449 

MENUS  FOR  PARTIES  AND  TEAS   ....   „   „   „  458 

MENUS,  BALANCED  FOR  WEEK  IN  JANUARY 

Janet  M.  Hill  469 

PREPARATION  IN  DETAIL  OF  THREE  MEALS  IN 

ONE  DAY Janet  M.  Hill  460 

ENCHANTMENT Agnes  Lochkart  Hughes  462 

THE  BIG  FOUR Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson  463 

WHEN  THE  YEAR  IS  NEW Louise  E.  Dew  466 

HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 467 

The  Guett  Who  Wants  to  Help— The  Salt  Cod  Dinner,  Etc. 

QUERIES  AND  ANSWERS 470 

MISCELLANEOUS 480 


91.00  A  YEAR 


lOc  A  CX»PY 


PablUhed  Ten  Timea  a  Year 

Fear  Yaara*  Snbscrlption>  $3.00 

Bat«r»d  at  Boston  post-ofltco  aa  ••coad-claaa  BMttar.    Copyrliht*  19 13*  by 

THE     BOSTON     COOKING     SCHOOL     MAGAZINE     COMPANY' 

372  BOYLSTON    STREET  BOSTON.  MASSACHUSETTS 


Please  Renew  on  Receipt  of  the  Colored  Blank  Enclosed  for  that  Purpose 

418 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advert.ted  Goodi  —  do  not  accept  subnitutei 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


INDEX  FOR  JANUARY 


BIG  OAK  FARM 
Food  SiwdalliH  for  tlie  Wiater  Hme 

(Sfciii^hlmUOAliiJ) 


PnpKTcd  iiiKl«rc]»D  BDd  nnltaireondltloiM  brfolkiwba 
know  how.  If  not  tt  Toor  dsaln'a.  tha  rann  will  Mppl* 
IS  ?  w'*        "IP""  or  Parcel  fMt     WiiU  far  twin  Uat 

BU  Oak  Farma  Downln^town,  Pa. 


lESSONS  IN  COOKING  ErJast 


IilH(HMnirinlO(u4lllg  A«  .  __,_  . 

1 «  •STK&SK-a.'Wr'.k .,.. , 


SALAD  DRESSING 


The  most  ddickxis  salad  you  can 
make  dlrurwi  Yacht  Club  dresangt 

a  po«vr  salad  nguirts  it 

— And  it  betters  cold 
neats,  game  and  tinned 
ish. 

— Evey  one  of  die  hundred 
nyt  of  using  Ykcht  Qub  ii  %. 
sod  w&y,  truly. 
WfitrnforFrmm/UcipmBotik 


wntm  rvrrrmm  Kmapm  JtooA 
BO  N.MukM  St..CUeMD.IIL 


A  Happv  New  Year 437 

As  to  Those  Five  and  Ten-Cent  Meala    .  438 

Editorials 446-448 

Enchantment 463 

Home  Idea*  and  Economies     ....  4A7 

Linens  for  the  Fair  Bride 440 

McnuB 425,458 

OmamenUl  Clocks  of  France,  111.       .      .  431 

Preparation  of  Thi«e  Meals  a  Day     .      .  440 

Story  of  an  Interior,  III 427 

Tea  at  the  Blue  Ship 436 

The  Big  Four 463 

The  Vipl  Keepers 446 

Two  City  Girls  Pioneeriiw  in  Arixana  434 

Watch  Your  Step 442 

When  the  Year  u  New 465 

Sbasonablb  Recipes: 

Apricots,  Frozen,  111 457 

Beef,  Pot  Roast  of.  III 453 

Brussels  Sprouts,  111 454 

Celery,  with  Beef  Marrow 454 

Chiclnn,  Purei  of 454 

Carroti,  Purei  of 449 

CuUcts,  Hot  Cheese 457 

Finnan  Haddie,  Dinner  Style  450 

Fish,  Boiled,  with  Oysters,  111.      ...  452 

felly  Maraschino 457 

ce  Cream,  Macaroon,  with  Strawberries  457 

Omelet,  Oyster,  111 452 

Oyster,  Lansdale,  111 450 

Preserve,  Chestnut,  III.  457 

Salad,  Cream  Cheese,  111 455 

Salad,  Germainc 456 

Salad,  Neapfditan,  111 456 

Sandwiches,  Neapolitan 456 

Sandwiches,  Sardine  and  Anchovy,  III.   .  455 

Sausage,  Deerfoot 452 

Sauce,  Madeira 454 

Sou^  Chicken,  Sabayon 449 

Souffle,  Dried  Apricot        457 

Venison,  with  Sprouts  and  Chestnut  Pur£e  453 

QuBKiEs  AND  Answeks: 

Bread,  Vienna         472 

Biscuit,  Clover-leaf 472 

Cake,  Almond 474 

Cake,  Mbdng  of 471 

Cake,  Threelayer,  Yellow      ....  476 

Cake,  Yellow  Layer 472 

Chestnuts,  French  Candied     ....  472 

Consommi,  Mushroom 476 

E^B,  Hard-cooked  for  Salads.      ...  472 

Fingerbowls,  Use  of 476 

Guests,  SeacinK  of  at  Table      ....  478 

Luncheons,  Fifty-cent 470 

Oatmeal  for  Cookies 472 

Olives,  Celery  and  Nuts,  Place  of.      .      .  478 

Onion,  Pickled 474 

Ox  Heart,  Braised 474 

Potatoes,  Sweet,  Southern  Style   ...  476 

Rolls  in  Napkin 476 

Salad,  Potato  for  Thirty    ....  472 

Shortbread,  Scotch 476 

Silver,  Disposal  of  on  Table     ....  478 

Tomato  Catsup 474 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


An  Entirely  New  Cook  Book  by  Miss  Farmer 

A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 

Author  of  "  The  Boston  Cookmg  School  Cook  Book/'  Etc. 

Xriri  EigAt  C^Iortd  PUiti  mmd  more  than   Tw  Hundnd  lltustrathmt  h  Half-ToHt 

Cloth,  $1.60,  net.       By  mail,  $1.75 

Since  its  original  publication,  Miss  Farmer's  ^'Boston  Cooking 
School  Cook  Book"  has,  in  new  editions,  incorporated  large  addi- 
tions, but  the  wealth  of  new  material— rthe  result  of  experiments 
in  the  author's  class  rooms  and  embodied  in  recipes  which  have 
been  thoroughly  tested — has  grown  to  such  an  extent  that  it  has 
become  necessary  to  incorporate  it  in  a  separate  volume  which 
forms  an  almost  indispensable  companion  to  the  author's  invalu- 
able ''Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book." 

The  "New  Book  of  Cookery"  contains  more  than  eight  hun- 
dred recii>es  upon  all  branches,  including  many  new  and  import- 
ant dishes  not  to  be  found  in  any  other  worL  It  is  prof usdy 
illustrated. 


LITTLE,  BROWN  &  CO.,  Publishers   -   BOSTON 


Lessons  in  Elementary  Cooking 

By  MARY  CHANDLER  JONES 

T«ach«r  of  Gook«ry  In  th«  Pabllo  Schools  of  BrooUlaa*  !!«««• 

Cloth,    272  Pages,  Illustrated,    $1.00  neL        Postage,    8  cents 

PJIT  of  this  book  appeared  seriaUy  in  this  magazine  and  met  with  such  favor  as  to  wanrant 
its  publication  in  book  (onn.    The  chapteis  that  were  in  the  magazine  have  been  rewritten 
and  enlarged,  and  about  as  many  more  entirely  new  chapters  (37  chapters  in  aD)  added, 
together  with  some  dozen  or  more  iOlustrations. 

TniS  Book  is  for  the  use  of  those  teaching  Cooking  in  the  Elementary  Schools, 
and  we  believe  such  teachers  will  derive  more  help  from  this  book  than  from  any  odier  yet 
published. 

Tills   Book  has  been  adopted  as  a  text  book  by  many  High  Schools. 
1  niS    Book  is  used  as  a  text  book  in  several  State  Normal  Schools. 

Every  Cookiiig  Teacher  needs  this  book 
Any  School  using  a  text  book  will  do  well  to  examine  this  one 

ADDRESS    ALL    ORDERS 

THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO.,    Boston.  Mass. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

421 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Books  on  Household  Economics 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  presents  the  following  as  a  list  of  repre- 
sentative works  on  household  economics.    Any  of  the  books  will  be  sent  postpaid  upon 
receipt  of  price. 
With   an   order  amounting  to  $5  or   more   we   include   a   year's  subscription  to   THE 
BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  (price  $1). 

Special  rates  made  to  schools,  clubs  and  persons  wishing  a  number  of  books.  Write  for 
quotation  on  the  list  of  books  you  wish.  We  carry  a  very  large  stock  of  these  books.  One  order 
to  us  saves  effort  and  express  charges. 


A-B-Z  of  Our  Own  Nutrition.  Horace 

Fletcher     1.00 

American  Cook  Book.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Hill  LIO 
American  Salad  Book.  M.  DeLoup...  1.00 
Around  the  World  Cook  Book.  Barroll  1.50 
Art  of  Entertaining.  Madame  Mesri  1.00 
Art    of    Home    Candy-Making    (with 

thermometer,  dipping  wire,  etc.)  3.00 

Art  of  Right  Living.     Richards 50 

Baby,  The.     A  book  for  mothers  and 

nurses.   D.  R.  Brown,  M.  D 1.00 

Bacteria,    Yeasts    and    Molds    in    the 

Home.    H.   W.   Conn    1.00 

Blue  Grass  Cook  Book.  Minnie  C.  Fox  2.00 
Book  o'  Entrees.  Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill  1.50 
Book  of  Good  Manners.  Kingsland...  1.50 
Boston  Cook  Book.  Mary  J.  Lincoln  2.00 
Boston   Cooking   School   Cook  Book. 

Fannie   M.   Farmer    2.00 

Boston    School    Kitchen    Text    Book. 

Mary  J.  Lincoln  1.00 

Bread  and  Bread-making.  Mrs.  Rorer  .50 
Bright  Ideas  for  Entertaining.  Linscott  .50 
Brussels  Charts  (Two.)    Showing  cuts 

of  Beef.  Li  mb  and  Veal  2.00 

Cakes,  Icings  and  Fillings.  Mrs.  Rorer  .50 
Cakes,  Cake  Decorations  and  Desserts. 

King    1.00 

Candy  Making  Revolutionized.     Mary 

Elizabeth  Hall 75 

Canning  and  Preserving.  Mrs.  Rorer  .75 
Care  and  Feeding  of  Children.     L.  £. 

Holt,   M.D 75 

Care  ojf  a  Child  in  Health.    N.  Oppen- 

heim    1.25 

Care  of  a  House.    T.  M.  Clark 1.50 

Carving  and  Serving.  Mary  J.  Lincoln  .60 
Century  Cook  Book.  Mary  Roland..  2.00 
Chemistry  in  Daily  Life.  Lessar-Cohn  1.75 
Chemistry    of    Cookery.    W.    Mattieu 

Williams    1.50 

Chemistry   of   Cooking   and   Cleaning 

Richards  and  Elliott  1.00 

Chemistry    of    Food    and    Nutrition. 

Sherman    1.50 

Clean  MUk.    S.  D.  Belcher 1.00 

Cleaning  and  Renovating.  E.  G.  Osman  .75 
Color,    Harmony    and    Contrast.     Jas. 

Wood   4.20 

Complete     Home,     The.      Clara    ^E. 

Laughlin    1.25 

Cook  Book  for  Nurses.  Sarah  C.  Hill  .75 
Cooking  for  Two.  Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill  1.50 
Cost  of  Cleanness.     Richards   1.00 


Cost  of  Food.     Richards  

Cost  of  Living.    Richards 

Cost  of  Shelter.     Richards  

Dainties.    Mrs.  Rorer 

Desserts — One  Hundred  Recipes.  By 
Filippini     

Dietetic  Value  of  Bread.  John  Good- 
fellow   

Dictionary  of  Cookery.    Cassell 

Domestic  Science  in  Elementary 
Schools.     Wilson   

Domestic  Service.     Lucy  M.  Salmon . . 

Dust  and  Its  Dangers.     Pruden 

Economics  of  Modem  Cookery.  M.  M. 
Mallock    

Elements  of  the  Theory  and  Practice 
of  Cookery.    Williams  and  Fisher... 

Equipment  for  Teaching  Domestic 
Science.     Kinne   ^ 

Etiquette  of  New  York  Today. 
Learned    

Etiquette  of  Today.     Ordway 

European  and  American  Cuisine.  Mrs. 
Lemcke    

Euthenics.     Richards   

Every  Day  Menu  Book.    Mrs.  Rorer.. 

Expert  Waitress.    A.  F.  Springsteed.. 

Family  Food.  O'Donnell  

First  Lessons  in  Food  and  Diet 

Fish — One  Himdred  Recipes  for  Cook- 
ing Fish.    Filippini 

First  Principles  of  Nursing.  Anne  R. 
Manning    

Food  and  Cookery  for  the  Sick  and 
Convalescent.   Fannie  M.  Farmer.. .. 

Food  and  Dietaries.  R.  W.  Burnett 
M.  D 

Food  and  Feeding.  Sir  Henry 
Thompson     

Food  ft  Flavor.     Finck 

Food  and  Its  Function.    James  Knight 

Food  and  the  Principles  of  Dietetica. 
Hutchinson     

Food  for  the  Invalid  and  the  Convales- 
cent    Gibbs   

Food  in  Health  and  Disease.  I.  B. 
Yco.  M.  D 

Food  Materials  and  Their  Adultera- 
tions.    Richards    

Food  Products  of  the  World.  Mary  E. 
Green   . .  ^ 

Franco-American  Cookery  Book.    De- 


1.00 

1.00 

1.00 

.75 

.30 

1.50 
2.50 

1.00 

2.00 

.75 

1.00 

1.00 

.80 

1.35 
.50 

2.00 
1.00 
1.50 
1.00 
1.00 
M 

J5 
1.00 
1.60 
1.50 


liee 


1.35 
2.00 
1.00 

3.00 

.75 

2.50 

1.00 

1.50 

3.50 


Buy  advertised  Goods  — do  not  accept  substitutes 

422 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


French  Household  Cookins.  Keyser . .  .60 
Fuels  of  the  Household.  Marian  White  .75 
Golden  Rule  Cook  Book  (600  Recipes 

for  Meatless  Dishes).     Sharpe 2.00 

Guide  to  Modern  Cookery.  M.  Escoffier  4.00 
Handbook  of  Home  Economics.  Flagg  .75 
Handbook    of    Hospitality    for    Town 

and  Country.     Florence  H.  Hall 1.50 

Handbook  of  Invalid  Cooking.     Mary 

A.   Boland  2.00 

Handbook  on  Sani&tion.    G.  M.  Price, 

M.  D 1.50 

Healthful   Farm    House,   The.     Helen 

Dodd    60 

Home  Candy  Making.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Home  Economics.    Maria  Barloa 1.50 

Home  Economics  Movement 75 

Home  Nursing.     Harrison   1.00 

Home  Problems  from  a  New  Standpoint  1.00 
Home  Science  Cook  Book.    Anna  Bar- 
rows and  Mary  J.  Lincoln 1.00 

Homes  and  Their  Decoration.    French  3.00 

Hot  Weather  Dishes.     Mrs.  Rorer 50 

House  Sanitation.     Talbot .80 

Household  Bacteriology.  Buchanan..  2.25 
Household  Economics.  Helen  Campbell  1.50 
Household  Science.  Junita  L.  Shepperd  1.75 

Household   Textiles.     Gibbs 1.25 

How  To  Cook  Fish.     Olive  Green 1.00 

How  To  Cook  for  the  Sick  and  Con- 
valescent.   H.  V.  Sachse  1.00 

How  To  Feed    Children.     Louise    E. 

Hogan    1.00 

How  to  Use  a  Chafing  Dish.  Mrs.  Rorer    .50 

Human  Foods.    Snyder 1.25 

Ice  Cream,  Water  Ices,  etc.    Rorer  ...     .75 

Institution  Recipes.    Smedley 1.25 

International  Cook  Book.    Filippini...  1.00 

Kitchen  Companion.    Parloa 2.50 

Laundry  Manual.   Balderston  and  Lim- 
erick     50 

Laundry  Work.     Juanita  L.  Shepperd    .60 
Lessons  in  Cooking  Through  Prepara- 
tion of  Meals  2.00 

Lessons  in  Elementary  Cooking.   Mary 

C.    Jones   1.08 

Like  Mother  Used  to  Make.  Herrick.  1.25 
Louis'     Salad     and     Chafing     Dishes. 

Muckensturm     50 

Luncheons.     Mary  Roland   1.40 

Made-over  Dishes.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Many  Ways  for  Cooking  Eggs.    Mrs. 

Rorer    50 

Menu  Book  and   Register  of  Dishes. 

Senn    2.50 

Mothers',  The,  Guide.    Coolidge 50 

My  Best  250  Recipes.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 

New  Book  of  Cookery,  A.  Fannie  M. 

Farmer 1.60 

New  Hostess  of  Today.    Lamed 1.50 

New  Salads.     Mrs.  Rorer 75 

Nursing,  Its  Principles  and    Practice. 

Isabel  H.  Robb 2.00 

Nutrition  of  Man.    Chittenden  3.00 


Old  Time  Recipes  for  Home  Made 
Wines.     Helen  S.  Wright 

One  Woman's  Work  for  Farm  Women 

Paper  Bag  Cookery.    Soyer 

Pleasures  of  the  Table.     Elwanger.... 

Practical  Cooking  and  Dinner  Giving. 
Mrs.  Mary  F.  Henderson 

Practical  Cooking  and  Serving.  Mrs. 
Janet  M.  Hill 

Practical  Dietetics.    Gilman  Thompson 

Practical  Points  in  Nursing.  Emily 
A.  M.  Stoney  

Practical  Sewing  &  Dressmaking.  Al- 
lington    

Principles  of  Home  Decoration.  Can- 
dace   Wheeler    

Principles  of  Human  Nutrition.  Jordan 

Proper  Feeding  of  the  Family.     Gibbs 

Quick  Soups.    Mrs.  Rorer 

Recipes  and  Menus  for  Fifty.  Frances 
Lowe  Smith   

Register  of  Foods 

Rorer's  (Mrs.)  New  Cook  Book 

Salads  and  Sauces.    Murray 

Salads,  Sandwiches,  and  Chafing  Dish 
Dainties.     Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill 

Sanitation  in  Daily  Life.    Richards. . . . 

Sevdng  Course  for  Schools.    Woolman 

Story  of  Germ  Life.    H.  W.  Conn 

Soyer's  Stand|u-d  Cookery  

Sunday  Night  Suppers.  Christine  Ter- 
hune  Herrick 

The  Story  of  Textiles 

The  Up-to-Date  Waitress.  Mrs.  Janet 
M.   Hill    

The  Woman  Who  Spends.  Bertha  J. 
Richardson    

Till  the  Doctor  Comes,  and  How  To 
Help  Him  

Vegetable  Cookery  and  Meat  Substi- 
tutes.    Mrs.  Rorer 

Vegetarian  Cookery.    A.  G.  Payne .... 

With  a  Saucepan  Over  the  Sea.  Ade- 
laide  Keen    

Women  and  Economics.  Charlotte 
Perkins   Stetson    i 

Woman's  Share  in  Primitive  Culture. 
Otis  J.  Mason  

World's  Commercial  Products,  The.  . . 

Library  of  Home  Economics: 

HovMlwId  NanigHDMl 


1.50 
.50 
.60 

2.50 

1.50 

1.50 
5.00 

1.75 

1.50 

1.80 

1.75 

.25 

.25 

1.50 

1.00 

2.00 

.50 

1.50 
.60 

1.50 
.35 

1.50 

1.00 
3.00 

1.50 

1.00 

1.00 

1.50 
.50 

1.50 

1.50 

1.75 
3.60 


Tb«  Boom 

Bo«a«h«U  BictortolftCT 
BooMhsM  Bjndm* 
ChMiitlry  ol  ut  BmimImU 
FrladplM  ol  CMkary 
F«odMi4Oi0l«liGt 


FwMBftl  Byficae 
BoMCaratldMSitk 
Textflet  Mi  C1oIUb( 
Slaiysi  CUM  Lilt 
Care  tl  ChMrt  ■ 


(May   be   purchased    as   a   set 
singly  at  $1.50  a  volume). 


or 


Appleton's 
The  Complete  Home  Library 

TIm  Conploto  BettoM  I  11ieC«iBpl*l( 

Th«  CinpUto  Bmm  I  Th*  Cooplalt  Beaatsr  Book 

Publishers*  price  $1.25  per  volume 

Our  Special  Price  (Sets  only,  4  vols.)  3.00 


ADDRESS  ALL  ORDERS 

THE  BOSTON  COOKIN&SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  GO.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

423 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  donot  accept  substitui 


Formal  Dinner  and  Luncheon  in  January 

Dinner 

Crabflake  Cocktail 

Game  Consomm^ 

Olives  Celery  Salted  Nuts 

Oysters,  Lansdale  Style 

Small  Fillets  of  Venison,  Chestnut  Pur6e 

Brussels  Sprouts 

Celery,  with  Marrow  and  Madeira  Sauce 

Individual  Chicken  Pies,  PufiF-Paste  Crust 

Romaine-and-Grapefruit  Salad 

Macarpon  Ice  Cream  with  Strawberries 

Marrons  Bonbons 

Coffee 

^  ^   ^ 
Luncheon 


Grapefruit-and- White  Grape  Cocktail 

(grapes  skinned  and  seeded) 

Fillets  of  Fish,  white,  with  Asparagus  and  Mushrooms 

Hot  House  Cucumbers,  French  Dressing,  with  pearl  onions 

Clover  Leaf  Biscuit 

Chicken  k  la  King 

Salad  Germaine 

Sultana  Roll,  Claret  Sauce 

Assorted  Cakes 

Coffee 


The 
Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 

Vol.  XVIII  JANUARY.  1914  No.  6 


THE   DINING-ROOM 

Story  of  an  Interior 

Mantle  L.  Hunter 

THE     road     had     proved    long  Our  house  was  one  of  the  oldest  in 

and    steep    and    our    climb  the  town,  and  stood  on  one  side  of  a 

had   been   a   hard   one,   but  large,  tree-shaded  lawn.     There  was 

we  had,  at  last,  reached  a  point  where  ample   room  at   the  side   of  the   old 

we  could  afford  to  build  a  new  house,  house  to  build  the  new  one.     We  had 

Then    began    a    contest  —  a    sort    of  our  plans  drawn  and  estimates  made. 

internecine  war — that  was  short  and  and    then    we    dallied    and    delayed 

sharp,  and  marked  by  the  renaming  until  our  architect  lost  not  only  his 

of  one  combatant.  patience    but    his    temper.      Finally, 


428 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Jack  voiced  the  trouble  with  all  of 
us   but   Grace. 

"  Hang  it!  Mater.  "  —  he  had  been 
a  hundred  in  Latin  the  day  before  — 
"  I'd  rather  ten  times  over  live  in 
the  old  house  and  have  the  big  yard 
to  loaf  in." 

John  and  I  looked  at  each  other 
in  silent  approval.  It  was  not  so 
much  the  "  big  yard  "  with  us  as 
leaving  the  house  which  had  par- 
taken so  largely  of  our  Joy,  and 
that  had  infolded  us  with  protecting 
tenderness,  when  sorrow  threatened 
to  overwhelm  us. 

And  then  Grace  set  up  a  protest 
that  by  its  very  vigor  saddled  her 
wi;h  a  new  name. 

"  I  think,"  I  ventured  timidly, 
"  that  this  house  might  be  made 
pretty  livable  with  a  few  changes 
and  some  new  furniture." 

"  New  furniture! "  snorted  Jack 
contemptuously.  "  when  you  have 
an  attic  full  of  grandmother's  old 
stuff.      What    you    want    is   an    up- 


holsterer and  a  refinisher." 

At  that  I  saw  a  great  light  and  so 
did  John.  His  face  fairly  beamed 
while  he  rubbed  his  hands  together 
in  a  sort  of  approving  ecstacy, 
which  proved  his  good  nature,  as  it 
was  my  mother's  "  stuff." 

"  We  can't  —  I'll  never  —  I  —  Oh ! 
it's  bad  enough  to  live  in  an  old 
house  —  but  to  have  to  sit  on  old 
furniture  —  I  think  it  would  be  too 
dreadful !  I  want  a  new  house  and  — 
new  —  fur  —  furniture."  Graceended 
with  a  frank  sob  and  a  blind  search 
for  a  handkerchief. 

"She  wants  things  new  and  shiny," 
said  Jack  with  scorn.  "  Varnish! 
She  ought  to  be  named  Varnish, 
that's  what  she  had." 

And  he  called  her  Varnish.  ?ifter 
that,  whenever  she  tried  to  obstruct 
the  remodeling  of  the  old  house, 
which  was  so  often  that  the  name 
finally  stuck  so  fast  that  the  poor 
child  could  not  shake  it  off.  Time 
has  softened  it  to  Varnie,  and  Varnie 


ITHE  FOOT-HOOK   CAN  BE  SEEN  IN  THE    UPPER  LEFT  OF  BOOKCASE) 


STORY  OF  AN  INTERIOR 


THE  PARLOR 


she  will  be  to  the  end  of  her  chapter. 

We  began  by  converting  the  kitchen 
into  a  dining-room,  and  making  a 
new  kitchen  by  throwing  a  big 
pantry  and  an  old-fashioned  "  sink- 
room  "  together.  To  the  old  dining- 
room  we  added  a  bay  and  some 
built-in  bookcases  and  we  had  a 
library  or  living  room  over  twenty 
feet  long  by  sixteen  wide.  Our 
former  living  room  became  the  "  par- 
lor." The  old  kitchen  was  sixteen 
feet  square,  with  a  big  chimney  of 
some  kind  on  one  side.  We  did  not 
know  exactly  what  it  was,  for  it  had 
been  bricked  up  and  boarded  across. 
We  thought  there  might  be  a  fire- 
place, because  there  was  a  sunken 
brick  hearth  upon  which  our  range 
stood  poised  upon  blocks  of  varying 
thickness. 

We  tore  off  the  boards  and  took 
out  the  bricks,  and,  lo!  the  old  fire- 
place, within  which  so  many  gen- 
erations had  cooked  their  meals,  and 
the  brick  oven,  where  so  many  savory 
loaves  had  browned,  stood  revealed. 


The  fireplace  was  in  perfect  repair 
even  to  the  eye  for  holding  the  crane 
but  the  hearth  was  giving  way  and 
the  oven  was  falling  down.  We 
replaced  the  bricks  in  the  hearth 
with  a  stone,  and  in  the  process 
found  a  "  foot-hook  "  used  for  draw- 
ing out  the  crane.  It  was  made 
from  a  naturally  crooked  root,  with 
one  end  whittled  to  represent  a  foot. 
It  is  the  only  thing  of  the  kind  I 
have  ever  come  across. 

We  took  out  the  oven  and  fash- 
ioned a  china  closet  where  it  had 
been.  We  left  the  wood  mantel 
and  the  paneling  over  it,  but  above 
the  panels  we  extended  a  plate  shelf. 
We  also  left  the  horizontal  paneled 
wainscoting  and  the  "  cross-doors." 
The  wall  we  covered  with  a  deep 
canary -colored  paper  and  had  the 
wood  work  and  moulding  painted  a 
leather  color. 

The  living  room  was  finished  in 
oak,  with  bookcases  to  match.  On 
the  walls  we  used  a  plain  Drown 
paper  with  a  golden  tone,  topped  with 


430 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


an  oak  moulding.  The  parlor  wood- 
work was  enameled  in  white,  and  a 
soft,  pale  green  paper  was  placed  on  the 
walls  with  white  moulding  above. 
The  bedroom,  which  opened  off  the 
library,  had  a  grayish  brown  paper 
that  toned  well  with  the  high,  old- 
fashioned,  black-walnut  furniture. 
All  the  ceilings  were  papered  with  the 
same  cream-colored  paper.  Space 
for  double  folding  doors  was  cut 
between  the  parlor  and  the  living 
room. 

Adjoining  what  had  formerly  been 
the  kitchen  was  a  roomy  porch,  where 
the  maid  had  done  the  washing  in 
summer,  and  where  the  cat  had 
shivered  in  winter,  when  she  was 
in  disgrace  for  too  much  investiga- 
tion. This  we  lighted,  and  converted 
into  a  summer  living  room,  where 
in  daytime  we  could  look  over  the 
shadow-swept  lawn,  and  at  night 
could  read,  or  doze,  or  play  a  game 
of  whist. 

Then  we  made  a  raid  on  the  attic. 
After  we  had  begun  the  unearthing, 
Jack  became  wildly  enthusiastic,  while 


Grace  plainly  sulked.  And  really, 
it  was  rather  a  sorry  sight.  The 
furniture  was  dtngy  and  dilapidated, 
and  'the  old  Staffordshire  ware  covered 
with  the  dust  of  decades.  And  the 
baskets,  which  had  held  the  mending 
and  the  food  of  by-gone  generations, 
were  disreputable  looking  affairs.  But 
it  is  remarkable  what  energy,  and 
soap,  and  a  good  cabinet  maker, 
can  accomplish  with  the  genuine 
contents  of  an  old  attic. 

The  hand-carved  mahogany  chairs 
and  davenport  we  had  refinished 
and  upholstered  in  green  and  gold 
.and .  old-rose  haircloth,  for  which 
"a  fifty-year-old  flowery  carpet  fur- 
nished a  good  setting.  Jack  made  a 
raid  on  the  store-room  of  a  great 
aunt  and  came  home  triumphant 
with  some  opal -glass  curtain  knobs, 
and  a  pair  of  glass  dolphin  candle- 
sticks that  are  so  old  that  the  holders 
are  of  pewter.  These  gave  the 
antique  finish  that  was  needed  to 
complete  the  parlor. 

Grandfather's  walnut  chest,  which 
he  had  made  himself,  was  refinished. 


STORY  OF  AN   INTERIOR 


431 


and  placed  underneath  grandmother's 
gilt-framed  looking-glass  with  the 
painted  picture,  which  hung  in  the 
bedroom.  The  bed  was  covered  with 
an  old,  hand-woven  coverlid,  as  was 
the  couch  in  the  living-room.  The 
one  on  the  bed  is  the  unusual 
grape- vine  pattern,  with  the  most 
interesting  border  I  have  ever  seen. 
It  has  in  it  the  motto,  "  E  Pluribus 
Unum,"  the  flag,  the  eagle  holding 
the  arrows,  and  the  state  house. 
The  other  is  the  sunburst  pattern 
with  a  beautiful  rose  and  bird  border. 
The  result  of  our  work  was  satis- 
factory to  John  and  me,  and  eminently 
so  to  Jack.  Before  the  final  touches 
were  put  on  I  sent  the  children  to  an 
aunt  for  a  month's  visit.  I  wanted 
them    to    see    the    finished    product, 


but  not  the  making  of  it. 

When  Jack  caught  his  first  view, 
his  hat  went  up  in  the  air  and  he 
caught  me  and  swung  me  in  a  dizzy 
whirl.  "It's  great!  It's  glorious!" 
he  shouted. 

Grace  —  Varnie  by  this  time  — 
did  not  seem  especially  depressed, 
but  of  course,  logically,  she  coulr* 
not  approve. 

"  Look  at  your  hat  on  the  floor!  " 
she  exclaimed.  "  If  we  had  a  new 
house,  we  would  have  a  hall  where 
you  could  hang  it." 

"  Hang  a  hall!  "  he  retorted, 
"  What's  a  hall  compared  to  a  big 
treey  lawn  —  and  this,"  —  he  spread 
wide  his  arms  comprehensively. 
"  Varnishl  "  he  added,  contempt- 
uously. 


EPOQUE  LOUIS  XVI. 


Hie  Ornamental  Clocks  of  France 


By  Frances  Sheafer  Waxman 

^HERE  was  a  time,  not  so  pretentions,  whatever,  possessed  an 
very  long  ago.  when  every  onyx  or  marble  French  clock.  This 
American  household  of  any     ornament  was  proudly  ensconced  on 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


The  French  clock,  as  it  has  been 
copied  and  distributed  throughout 
the  world,  is  certainly  out  of  key 
with  most  of  the  surroundings  in 
which  it  finds  itself,  for  the  clock  in 
France  was  from  the  first  regarded 
as  much  as  an  ornament  as  a  utility, 
and  it  was  designed  to  fit  the  sump- 
tuous'' interiors  of  the  days  when 
Prance  led  the  world  in  her  luxurious 
living  appointments.  The  marvelous 
workmen  of  the  Louis  periods  did 
not  neglect  the  clock,  in  their  selection 
of  a  field  for  the  display  of  their 
talents.  They  may  have  been  in- 
difEerent  mechanicians,  but  they  were 
designers  without  peer,  and  no  doubt 
many  a  reproduction  of  their  work 
has  found  its  way  to  this  country, 
to  be  relegated,  at  last,  to  some  totally 
unsympathetic  environment,  very  far 
away  in  taste  and  intention  from 
the  scenes  and  the  inspiration  which 
first  called  it  into  existence. 


EPOQUB  REGBkCE 


the  mantle  shelf,  together  with  such 
bric-a-brac  as  was  deemed  worthy 
to  share  its  conspicuous  position. 
Not  infrequently,  when  the  clocks 
were  of  gilded  bronze,  they  were 
covered  with  the  bell  glass,  once  used 
to  preserve  wax  flowers  from  the  dust. 
Whatever  has  become  of  all  those 
wax  groups  of  fruit  and  flowers? 
Being  useless  decorations  they  have 
disappeared,  probably  to  the  remotest, 
dustiest  corners  of  the  family  attic. 
The  clocks  though,  having  a  genuine 
raison  d'etre,  and  being  moreover 
excellent  time-keepers,  remain  to 
mark  the  passing  of  a  fashion  in 
decoration  that  sometimes  sets  us 
wondering  if  the  Mission  style  is, 
after  all,  an  improvement  on  those 
that  have  gone  before. 


EPOQUE  LOUIS   XV. 


THE  ORNAMENTAL  CLOCKS  OF  FRANCE 


433 


The  earliest  French  clocks  were  of 
two  quite  opposed  sizes:  the  great 
city  clocks  which  told  the  time  from 
the  tower  of  the  town  hall,  and  the 
tiny  ornamental  bibelots  which  oc- 
cupied a  place  of  honor  on  the  tables 
of  princely  apartments.  Many  of 
the  famous  town  clocks  are  still 
doing  du1?y  in  their  original  settings. 
The  beautiful  clock  at  Bruges  has 
inspired  many  a  poet  to  sing  of  its 
musical  chimes,  and  the  historic 
time-piece  has  clung  to  its  old- 
fashioned  habits,  for  it  has  even 
to-day  to  be  wound  four  times  every 
twenty-four  hours.  The  indoor,  port- 
able clocks  were  considered  an  im- 
portant invention,  when  they  first 
appeared,  and  every  one,  who  could 
afford  hastened  to  order  one  so  that 
he  **  might  know  the  time  wherever 
he  might  be.**  They  were  made  of 
real  precious  metals,  and  embellished 
with  much  hand-made  ornament. 
Silver  and  gold  inlays  were  common, 
as  was,  later,  the  beautiful  mar- 
quetry for  which  the  •  eighteenth 
century  wood- workers  were  renowned. 

Truth  to  tell,  these  elaborate  clocks 
kept  rather  inaccurate  count  of  the 
passage  of  time.  They  had  a  great 
many  functions  to  perform  besides 
telling  the  hours.  They  had  appli- 
ances that  marked  the  tides,  the 
courses  of  the  planets,  the  rising  of 
the  sun  and  moon,  the  eclipses,  and 
a  lot  of  other  more  or  less  useful 
information.  Often  they  had  very 
intricate,  mechanical,  toy  attach- 
ments, and  were  equipped  with  a 
variety  of  little  figures  which  went 
through  quite  complicated  gyrations 
every  time  the  clock  struck.  There 
would  be  graceful  ladies,  with  a 
troup  of  trained  monkeys,  who  had 
to  perform  in  order  that  the  onlooker 
might  know  it  was  twelve  o'clock. 
Cocks  crew,  victories  crowned  kings, 
armed  knights  drilled,  birds  sang, 
every    time    the    hour    passed.      It 


was    a    conspicuous    way    of    telling 
them  off,  at  a*ny  rate. 

Even  in  the  reign  of  Louis  XIV 
clocks  were  looked  upon  as  of  suffi- 
cient novelty  to  be  given  as  kingly 
gifts,  and  many  an  ambassadorial 
visitor  to  the  Court  went  away  with, 
not  one,  but,  perhaps,  a  dozen  small 
clocks  of  exquisite  make.  Things 
were  done  on  a  magnificent  scale  at 
the  Court  of  France  during  the  Sun 
King's  reign. 

It  was  at  a  somewhat  later  date 
that  clocks  took  up  their  position 
on  the  chimney  shelf,  a  place  they 
have  since  unquestioningly  held.  In 
France  they  formed,  with  two  vases 
and  two  pendant  candlesticks,  a 
group  known  as  a  *' chimney-trim- 
ming." Since,  at  that  time,  all 
chimneys  had  their  mirrors,  the 
clock-makers  were  obliged  to  take 
account  of  the  fact  that  the  reverse 
of  their  time  pieces  was  also  visible, 
and  hence  had  to  be  treated  "in 
the  round,"  much  as  a  statue  would 
be. 

Wall  clocks  had  a  vogue  in  France 
and,  at  one  time,  the  tall  standing 
clock  of  our  Colonial  days  was 
made  there  in  a  somewhat  glorified 
form.  The  case  was  naturally  given 
every  attention  as  a  medium  to 
exploit  the  wood-worker's  and  the 
metalist's  art.  Many  of  the  best 
examples  of  these  clocks  have  been 
preserved  in  the  French  museums 
and  may  be  seen  and  studied  still 
by  the  interested  traveler.  Nothing 
like  them  is  made  now-a-days,  ex- 
cept as  copies  of  these  good  old 
models.  We  have  not  time  to  spend 
years,  as  did  the  people  of  other  days, 
in  arriving  at  mere  perfection  •  of 
form.  On  the  other  hand,  we  can 
and  do  make  more  accurate  and 
reliable  time-keepers  than  could  the 
most  gifted  of  the  artisans  of^long 
ago.  In  our  day  science  has  .made 
greater  strides  than  art. 


Two  City  Girls  Pioneering  in  Arizona 

By  Julia  Davis  Chandler 


THE  day  of  the  canvas-covered 
ox-wagon  is  past.  We  helped 
these  girls  pack  to  go  by  the 
express  train  of  to-day  from  a  big 
Eastern  city.  Smart  in  spring  toggery 
they  looked,  alert  and  bright,  just  they 
two,  bag  and  baggage,  to  join  a  young 
married  sister  whose  husband  had  lo- 
cated a  claim  in  a  newly  settled  valley 
of  Arizona.  She  was  lonely;  there  was 
the  first  baby  in  the  family  to  be  seen; 
would  not  her  two  sisters  come  out  there 
and  take  up  a  quarter  section  close  by, 
while  the  land  was  to  be  had? 

And  so,  leaving  a  big  Pennsylvania 
home,  "up-state"  and  city  office  posi- 
tion that  one  held,  and  a  fine  nursing 
practice  the  elder  had  established,  the 
two  set  forth,  not  scuttling  all  their 
ships,  for  they  frankly  said:  "If  we  do 
not  like  it,  if  we  do  not  succeed,  we 
shall  return." 

First  came  a  picture  postal,  a  queer 
scene,  purchased  while  aboard  the  "tour- 
ist sleeper,"  that  one  may  take  at 
Washington,  or  Chicago,  and  not  change 
thereafter;  on  it  they  said  all  was  going 
well  and  salt  pretzels  and  peppermints 
had  averted  car-sickness.  Then  came 
the  following  accotmt  of  their  experiences 
during  the  first  six  weeks. 

"Dear  Folkses  at  home:" 

"For  this  letter  is  written  to  the 
whole  family,  as  we  do  when  we  write 
home.  We  have  been  out  here  now 
almost  six  weeks,  but  it  really  doesn't 
seem  possible,  as  they  have  been  the 
busiest,  and  I  think  the  most  interest- 
ing ones  of  my  life.  I  thought  there 
would  be  nothing  much  to  do  here  and 
perhaps  there  won't  be  after  we  have 
seen  it  all.  We  stayed  with  Estelle  a 
week;  both  she  and  the  baby  are  well 
and  the  baby  is  dear,  and  not  yet  can 
we  decide  whether  she  is  to  be  named 


Martha  or  Elizabeth.  At  the  end  of 
a  week  we  moved  on  to  our  own  claim 
and  have  been  living  here  ever  since; 
we  think  it  one  of  the  most  perfect 
places  to  live  in  we  have  ever  seen, 
although  I  don't  know  whether  we  will 
ever  be  able  to  make  a  living  or  not, 
on  account  of  the  dry  weather,  but  the 
old  settlers  seem  to  be  able. 

We  have  had  some  very  thrilling 
experiences  already.  First  we  were 
taken  all  over  the  valley  to  look  at 
the  vacant  land,  but  we  couldn't  see 

anything    we    liked,  until    Mr.    M 

brought  us  up  here  and  we  fell  in  love 
with  it  at  once.  Where  Estelle  lives 
the  country  is  absolutely  flat,  with 
not  a  bush  nor  a  tree  in  sight,  but  we 
are  about  four  hundred  feet  higher 
than  she  is  and  six  miles  south,  just 
atr  the  foot  of  the  mountains.  Our 
land  is  a  mile  and  a  half  long,  with 
part  of  it  a  quarter  of  a  mile  wide  and 
part  a  half-mile  wide.  The  coimtry 
up  here  is  rolling  and  about  one-quarter 
of  it  is  covered  with  trees  which  we 
like  very  much.  However,  this  groimd 
has  not  been  surveyed  by  the  Govern- 
ment yet,  so  we  were  not  able  to  file 
on  it  and  hold  it.  The  homestead 
law  is  that  you  can  file  on  your  claim 
and  then  you  have  six  months  to  build 
your  house  and  get  ready  to  live  on  it. 
Well,  as  this  was  not  surveyed,  the 
only  way  to  hold  it  is  to  live  on  it, 
or  "squat",  as  the  term  is  here. 

Late  on  Saturday  evening,  after  we 
had  decided  to  take  this  land,  we  heard 
that  two  families  had  come  in  that 
afternoon,  and  were  going  to  move 
on  the  next  morning;  so  if  we  wanted 
it  we  had  to  move  that  night,  to  get 
there  first. 

In  half  an  hour  we  had  all  our  belong- 
ings, with  bedclothes,  tnmks,  cooking 
utensils,  grub  and  two  tents  ready  to 


434 


TWO  CITY  GIRLS  PIONEERING  IN  ARIZONA 


435 


start.  We  came  up  over  the  prairie 
in  the  night  arriving  here  about  eleven 
p.m.,  and  slept  right  out  under  the 
stars.  Rosa  and  I  came  with  our 
brother  and  his  father;  of  course  Estelle 
and  baby  could  not  take  the  trip.  It 
surely  was  great. 

Then,  the  next  morning  our  neighbors 
came  to  help  us  put  up  the  two  tents, 
hauled  wood  for  us,  and  fixed  us  up 
ready  to  Uve.  The  grass  was  very 
long  and  just  as  dry  as  straw,  so,  for 
fear  we  should  have  a  fire  the  men  deci- 
ded they  would  bum  the  grass  off 
around  our  tents,  but  the  fire  got  away 
from  them.  It  burned  one  of  our  tents, 
got  in  our  wood  pile,  and  almost  burned 
everything  we  had,  but  we  saved  one 
tent  and  our  other  things.  That  fire 
went  over  the  prarie  the  fastest  of  any- 
thing you  ever  saw.  I  guess  it  burned 
about  eight  miles  before  the  people 
in  the  valley  got  it  conquered.  It  was 
a  bad  introduction  and  we  surely  were 
frightened,  that  is,  however,  all  the 
bad  luck  so  far. 

Oiu"  tent  gone,  we  have  had  to  Uve 
in  a  little  tent,  8  x  10,  where  we  can 
just  stand  up  in  the  middle;  still  we 
surely  have  been  enjoying  it.  We 
cook  above  a  hole  in  the  ground,  with 
a  piece  of  tin  over  the  top,  but  you 
never  tasted  anything  in  Philadelphia 
as  good  as  what  we  cook  on  that  stove. 
We  have  the  stove,  woodpile,  water 
barrel  and  Rosa's  trunk  on  one  daim, 
while  just  over  the  line  we  have  the 
tent  and  my  trunk,  so  as  to  hold  down 
both  claims. 

Our  housekeeping  is  not  strenuous, 
as  you  may  know,  but  how  we  do  run 
around  and  enjoy  ourselves !  Our  claims 
join  the  State  Forest  Reserve,  on  the 
West,  so  we  will  never  have  any  neigh- 
bors there;  the  mountains  start  there 
and  we  do  have  a  time  exploring.  We 
often  start  just  as  soon  as  we  have 
had  our  breakfast,  take  a  lunch  along, 
and  get  back  about  five  or  six,  ready  for 
our  supper,  I  can  assure  you!  We  can 
lie  down  wherever  we   please,   as  the 


groimd  is  perfectly  dry.  It  has  rained 
just  once  since  we  have  been  here  and 
is  not  likely  to  rain  again  imtil  June, 
because  this  is  the  dry  season.  Of 
course,  nothing  will  grow  now,  but  the 
farmers  get  their  ground  ready  and  then 
plant  things  about  Jime,  so  that  things 
are  in  the  groimd  when  the  wet  weather 
does  come.  When  the  rains  begin,  it 
rains  every  day  for  a  month  or  two  and 
things  hum  then.  You  see  they  must 
raise  things  that  will  mature  quickly 
after  that,  before  the  frosts  come. 

We  are  getting  our  groimd  ploughed. 
It  is  very  hard  as  it  has  been  beaten  by 
the  rains  of  centuries.  We  are  also 
getting  posts  hauled  for  wire  fence, 
and  will  get  a  horse  as  soon  as  we  have 
a  place  to  keep  it.  We  have  the  lum- 
ber ordered  for  a  house,  too,  and  it 
should  come  now  any  day,  and  then 
it  will  be  more  like  Uving.  for  when  we 
have  our  two  cots  set  up  in  the  tent, 
there  is  only  about  three  feet  in  which 
to  move,  but  then  we  have  the  whole 
of  the  outside  world  to  stretch  in! 

This  was  once  Mexican  territory,  and 
Mexico  gave  a  strip  of  land  through 
here  twenty-five  miles  long  and  three 
miles  wide  to  two  men  for  a  loan,  and 
these  men  still  own  this  grant.  Of 
course,  that  is  not  open  for  homesteading, 
and  we  are  right  on  the  southern  edge 
of  that  grant,  and  it  lies  between  Estelle 
and  us.  It  also  happens  that  in  the 
six  miles  from  her  place  to  ours  we  do 
not  pass  a  single  house.  Twice  we 
have  walked  up  here  at  night,  in  the 
moonlight,  and  such  moonlight  you 
never  saw  as  we  have  here.  We  never 
encoimter  anything  worse  than  wild 
horses  and  wild  cattle.  Part  of  the 
way  we  have  no  road,  but  must  go 
only  by  the  stars  and  mountains,  to 
get  home.  Once  we  got  lost  back  in 
the  moimtains  and  got  separated  and 
had  a  pretty  bad  scare.  I  got  home 
first,  nearly  an  hour  before  Rosa,  and 
I  was  nearly  frantic.  Since  that  we 
stay  together,  for  I  suppose  there  is 
fifty  miles  back  there  of  nothing  but 


436 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


moiintains  and  not  a  house. 

I  haven't  told  you  anything  about 
the  people,  but  they  are  decidedly 
important.  Nearly  half  the  claims  in 
this  valley  are  taken  by  immarried 
men.  Bachelors  on  the  south  and  east 
of  us  and  our  four  nearest  neighbors 
are  men  living  alone.  Three  brothers 
have  two  claims  joining  ours  and  are 
our  nearest  neighbors;  one  is  about 
twenty-five,  and  one  thirty,  and  one 
forty,  a  widower.  The  one  who  lives 
alone  is  away  now  and  we  are  caring 
for  his  live  stock,  which  I  like  very 
much  —  some  chickens,  two  horses,  a 
cat,  two  kittens  and  a  dog.  One  dog 
stays  over  here  sometimes.  I  like  the 
kittens  best,  and  one  is  to  be  mine  as 
soon  as  it  is  old  enough  to  leave  the 
mother.     I  have  just  been  over  seeing 


to  the  little  turkeys  that  are  hatching, 
about  a  quarter  mile  away  this  place  is 
from  us.  We  are  going  to  a  settler's 
picnic  tomorrow.  I  am  going  with  the 
boys  over  the  hill  and  Rosa  will  come 
back  with  us  for  she  went  down  to 
Estelle's  and  has  staid  since  Monday 
so  for  three  nights  I  have  been  alone, 
while  the  nearest  house  I  can  see  is 
five  miles  away.  I  have  not  been  a  bit 
afraid  and  have  had  time  to  write  letters. 

I  went  with  Mr.  M to  haul  posts 

yesterday  and  walked  all  the  way  home, 
eight  miles,  and  was  not  a  bit  tired. 
Rosa  can  walk  even  better  than  I 
can  and  she  has  gladly  lost  ten  pounds! 
And  think  how  she  always  took  the 
car  at  home!  Love  for  you  all.  Snap 
shots  will  follow,  so  that  you  can  see 
almost  with  our  eyes." 


Tea  at  the  "Blue  Ship" 

By  Adele  Farmer 


GOING  to  the  *Blue  Ship'  to- 
day?" "Yes?"  This  from  Floss 
as  we  sat  on  the  deck  of  the 
"Norman"  coming  into  Boothbay  Har- 
bor, one  August  afternoon  the  past 
summer.  In  our  many  shopping  ex- 
peditions to  "the  harbor"  it  was  a  fore- 
gone conclusion  that  we  girls  would 
end  up  at  this  facinating  place. 

Our  errands  finished,  we  strolled  up 
the  main  street  of  the  town,  until  over 
our  heads  swimg  a  gray  sign,  "The 
Blue  Ship  Gift  Shop."  We  turned  our 
backs  to  the  harbor,  mounted  the  high 
steps,  flanked  on  either  side  by  immense 
nasturtiums,  and  gave  a  cry  of  delight 
as  we  stepped  through  the  door.  No 
matter  how  many  times  during  the 
summer  you  dropped  in  for  tea,  the 
scene  was  different — new  hanging  bas- 
kets, a  complete  change  of  flowers,  or 
still  another  odd  decoration  on  each 
table.  We  took  possession  of  one  of 
the  six  square  gray  tables,  and,  after 


giving  our  order  to  a  pretty  brown- 
eyed  girl  with  a  yellow  ribbon  around 
her  hair,  just  gazed  around  us.  There 
was  one  large  room  and  a  kitchen,  sep- 
arated by  a  door  and  gray  portidre. 
The  walls  of  the  tea  room  were  covered 
with  gray  burlap  stenciled  with  a  bor- 
der of  blue  ships  under  full  sail.  On 
-one  side,  the  unbroken  wall  space  was 
a  joy  to  the  eye — beautiful  little  pic- 
utres  in  perfectly  harmonizing  frames, 
odd  wall  vases  wickef  and  pottery,  with 
a  spray  of  red  berries,  a  bimch  of  Queen 
Anne's  lace,  a  waxy  cluster  of  bayberry 
or  a  few  blades  of  swamp  grass.  The 
other  side  wall  had  three  long  shelves, 
painted  gray,  filled  with  the  most  entic- 
ing array  of  pottery,  carved  wooden 
bowls  and  plates,  sea-shell  china,  brass, 
copper  and  Japanese  serving  trays. 
Japanese  prints,  silver  ware  etc.  One 
front  window  was  used  as  a  display 
window,  while  the  other  was  an  ideal 
spot  for  a  table.    The  counter  took  up 


TEA  AT  THE  "BLUE  SHIP" 


437 


part  of  the  back  wall  with  its  pile  of 
gray  paper,  box  of  blue-ship]  seals  and 
btindles  of  natural  raflfia,  to  do  up  the 
dainty  purchases.  A  thick  Chinese  bowl 
filled  with  a  cliunp  of  camp  green  moss 
was  used  to  moisten  the  seals.  The 
floor  was  stained  gray,  and  several  large 
Crex  rugs  stenciled  across  each  end 
with  a  border  of  blue  ships  were  used. 
The  windows  were  curtained  with  snowy 
white  scrim  with  smaller  blue  ships 
sailing  across  the  bottom.  In  the  cen- 
ter of  the  room  a  large  column  with  a 
seat  built  aroimd  it,  piled  with  gray  and 
blue  cushions,  made  a  cozy  spot.  This 
particular  day,  each  table  was  honored 
with  a  tiny  odd  jardiniere  in  which 
grew  a  perfect  baby  fir  balsom  or  spruce 
tree,  a  large  natiu'al  color  reed,  hanging 
basket,  with  long  oddly  shaped  handles 
up  which  some  brightly  colored  nas- 
urtiums  twisted,  was  a  thing  to  remem- 
ber. A  great  brass  bowl  running  over 
with  gorgeous  goldenrod  fairly  made 
one  comer  blaze.  A  little  gray  bowl 
filled  with  a  few  sprays  of  cranberries 
just  turning  red  made  you  want  to  paint 
it  so  you  could  see  it  always. 


Now  to  come  back  from  our  delight- 
ful survey  of  the  room  to  the  menu 
and  our  tea.  The  menu  was  a  heavy 
gray  folder  with  a  blue  ship  at  the  top 
and  'The  Blue  Ship,  Boothbay  Harbor 
Maine'*  at  the  bottom  of  the  front  leaf. 
Inside  the  usual  tea  room  menu  was 
printed  in  blue  with  a  * 'special"  for 
every  day  to  be  added.  Our  charm- 
ing waitress  brought  our  ''special'*,  del- 
icious clam  chowder  served  in  carved 
wooden  bowls,  on  a  gray  tray  with 
a  blue  ship  on  it  and  a  cunning 
little  yellow  chicken  salt  and  pepper 
Then  some  of  us  had  a  "Blue  Ship 
Special"  sandwich  —  three  layers  of 
chopped  egg,  pickle,  nuts  and  a  lettuce 
leaf  that  was  good  to  the  taste.  To 
finish  off,  we  had  toast,  tea  and 
gooseberry  jam,  or  a  tall  glass  of  milk 
and  gingerbread  with  whipped  cream. 
Everything  was  served  on  blue  dragon 
china,  which  was  lovely  with  the  gen- 
eral surroundings.  We  lingered  over 
oiu"  tea  cups,  until  it  was  absolutely 
necessary  to  tear  ourselves  away  and 
go  on  the  next  pleasure  trip  home  to 
our  island  bungalow  on  the  "Norman." 


A  Happy  New  Year 


I   woke   in   the   morning  and   thought    I    was 
friendless, 
So  far  from  my  kindred  Fate  forced  me  to  stay, 
I  said,  "  I  am  joyless  and  wretched  and  lonely, 
Too  tearful  to  sing  and  too  hopeless  to  pray. 
At  home  they  will  miss  me,  perchance  at  the 
table, 
And  some  one  may  murmur   *I  wish  he  were 
here,' 
And  then  to  each  other  they'll  call  out  their 
greetings 
Good  Mornmg,  Good  Morning,  A  Happy  New 
Year." 


I  stood  at  the  noon-tide  and  thought   I   was 
beggared 
Of  all   that   makes  living  a  game  good   to 
play. 
No  face  of  a  loved  one  to  smile  me  a  welcome, 
But  strangers  and    aliens  each  step  of  the 
way. 
I  went  to  my  work  like  a  slave  in  the  galleys, 
I  wiped  from  my  eye,  half  shamefacedly,  a 
tear. 
So  far  were  they  from  me,  the  comrades,  the  dear 
ones. 
Who  always  had  bade  me  A  Happy  New  Year. 


I  sat  as  the  shadows  of  even  were  falling 

And  dreamed  of  a  cottage  so  far,  far  away, 
And  then  in  an  instant  the  present  grew  brighter. 

And  all  were  forgotten,  tne  griefs  of  the  day. 
I  called  to  the  moon  beams;  I  smiled  at  the 
shadows, 
I  whistled  a  greeting  in  valley  and  mere, 
Recalling  a  maiden,  a  dear  little  maiden, 
Who'll  breathe,  though  I  come  not,  A  Happy 
New  Year. 

L.  M.  Thornton. 


As  to  those  Five  and  Ten-Cent  Meals 


By  Gertrude  Clark  Hanson  . 


I  WAS  interested,  as  doubtless  many 
other  readers  were,  in  the  five  and 
ten-cent  meals  described  in  the  No- 
vember issue.  In  this  wasteful  and 
luxurious  age  of  ours  it  is  refreshing 
to  read  such  a  record  of  "plain  living 
and  high  thinking."  However,  I  have 
not  been  able  to  rid  myself  of  the 
opinion  that  the  experiment,  as  carried 
out,  was  not  a  success  from  the  stand- 
point of  nutrition,  and  that  if  persisted 
in  for  any  length  of  time  it  might  be 
a  serious  menace  to  health. 

I  am  by  no  means  an  expert  in  diete- 
tics, but  for  twelve  years  I  have  made 
a  study  of  providing  my  family  with 
the  best  possible  meals  at  the  lowest 
possible  cost.  In  doing  this  I  have 
availed  myself  of  the  help  offered  by 
the  best  household  magazines.  It  was 
my  interest  in  this  question  that  led 
me  to  ponder  so  seriously  over  the 
article  referred   to. 

Of  course,  the  writer  was  greatly 
handicapped  by  circumstances  —  lack 
of  ice,  inability  to  cook  in  her  room, 
proper  appliances,  etc. —  but  even  so 
it  seems  to  me  that  she  did  not  plan 
her  meals  as  well  as  she  might  have 
done.  For  instance,  I  cannot  see  the 
advantage  in  dividing  her  money  arbi- 
trarily as  she  does  —  five-cent  meals 
one  day  and  ten  the  next  —  nor  in 
taking  all  meals  at  the  restaurant  one 
day  and  all  in  her  room  the  next. 
The  restaurant  meals  were  well-chosen, 
but  the  next  day  is  a  dreary  succession 
of  bakery  goods.  There  are  some  very 
serious  defects  here  —  monotony  of  the 
three  meals  per  day,  lack  of  variety 
in  the  meal  itself,  etc.  I  understand 
that  the  sample  meal,  namely  a  roll, 
a  bun,  a  cookie,  a  cruller,  a  peach  and 
a  banana,  were  typical  of  the  home 
meals  and  that  they  out-numbered 
the  restaurant-meals  considerably.     She 


seems  to  realize  that  these  meals  lack 
the  necessary  food  elements,  but  does 
not  propose  a  remedy.  Yet  this  fault, 
if  persisted  in,  will  lead  to  certain 
trouble. 

Taking  her  plan  of  five  cents  a  meal 
for  one  day  and  ten  the  next,  we  find 
that  she  spends  a  total  of  one  dollar 
and  forty  cents  the  first  week  and  one 
dollar  and  sixty-five  the  next  week.  It 
would  be  better  to  take  one  meal  at 
the  restatirant  every  day  and  two 
five-cent  meals  in  the  room.  This 
would  insure  one  warm  meal  a  day, 
beside  affording  a  variety  not  otherwise 
possible.  Since  she  is  evidently  fond 
of  milk  and  does  not  object  to  a  little 
sameness,  why  not  make  the  breakfast 
each  day  consist  of  a  pint  of  milk? 
This,  with  the  top  cream,  would  be 
nourishing  and  would  dispose  of  the 
breakfast  problem.  This  refers  only 
to  the  vacation,  as  it  might  not  be 
advisable  the  year  round. 

For  limcheon,  I  would  suggest  that 
she  go  to  the  restaurant,  being  careful 
to  select  as  great  a  variety,  from  day 
to  day,  as  is  possible  with  the  amount 
expended.  This  meal  should  contain 
a  vegetable  whenever  possible,  to  make 
up  for  the  lack  in  the  other  meals. 
The  entire  cost  will  be  seventy  cents 
for  the  week. 

The  second  week,  according  to  her 
plan,  has  a  surplus  of  fifteen  cents; 
this  might  be  partly  expended  the  first 
week  for  the  peanut  butter,  which 
could  be  stretched  out  to  give  variety 
through  the  two  weeks  and  to  help 
supply  the  fats  that  are  lacking  in  this 
diet.  For  supper  she  must  depend 
largely  on  bakery  products  as  they 
afford  the  necessary  bulk.  Two  dozen 
rolls,  etc.,  will  cost  twenty  cents,  leav- 
ing fifteen  cents  for  fruit;  as  tomatoes 
are  at  their  best  and  cheapest  in  August, 

438 


AS  TO  THOSE  FIVE  AND  TEN-CENT  MEALS 


439 


she  might  use  a  part  of  her  fruit  allow- 
ance for  tomatoes,  with  profit  to  herself. 

The  same  plan,  with  slight  variations, 
will  hold  good  during  the  working  year, 
the  straight  thirty  cents  a  day  giving 
more  lee-way.  Here  one  might  spend 
five  cents  for  breakfast,  fifteen  for 
luncheon  (restaurant)  and  ten  for  sup- 
per; or  the  amount  set  aside  for  supper 
and  breakfast  could  be  divided  as  cir- 
cumstances demanded.  There  are  in 
most  of  our  cities  restaurants  in  con- 
nection with  the  Yotmg  Women's  Chris- 
tian Associations;  they  are  in  no 
sense  charitable  institutions  and  any 
girl  can  patronize  them  without  loss 
of  self-respect,  as  she  pays  a  fair  price 
for  what  she  gets.  The  food  is  almost 
certain  to  be  clean  and  *  wholesome. 
Many  of  these  restaurants  are  on  the 
three-cent  basis  —  three  cents  for  each 
item,  bread,  vegetable,  meat,  dessert, 
etc.  One  can  readily  see  the  possibi- 
lities here.  And  even  on  the  five-cent 
basis  fifteeen  cnts  will  get  a  wholesome 
luncheon,  with  occasional  dessert,  which 
everybody  craves.  This  need  for  sweet 
things  explains  the  milk  chocolate  in 
the  menu  given. 

It  is  very  doubtful  whether,  even 
with  the  hot  meal  at  noon,  the  cold 
breakfast  and  supper  are  wise  as  a 
steady  proposition.  A  bottle  of  milk 
is  cold  comfort  when  it  precedes  a 
long,  cold  trip  to  work,  and  at  the 
end  of  a  hard  day,  it  is  not  cheering  to 
sit  down  to  baker's  rolls  and  fruit. 
All  landladies  object,  very  naturally, 
to  the  use  of  their  hard-earned  gas  for 
cooking  purposes  and  to  the  odor  of 
burned  grease  in  the  upper  halls;  but 
I  believe  one  could  be  found  who  would 
readily  permit  the  judicious  use  of 
a  spirit  lamp.  To  the  girl  who  is  on 
a  narrow  margin  this  may  seem  an 
impossible  extravagance,  but  it  will 
prove  an  economy  in  the  long  run. 
The  cost  of  operation  will  be  slight,  as 
it  need  not  be  used  for  cooking,  but 
only  in  re-heating  food.  There  will 
be  fewer  fifteen-cent   restaurant   meals 


when  once  the  possibilities  of  a  can- 
opener  and  a  lamp  are  realized.  In 
cool  weather  the  pint  of  milk  may  be 
divided  and  a  half  kept  for  supper  or 
even  for  the  next  morning,  while  the 
other  half,  after  heating,  did  duty  on 
a  shredded  wheat  biscuit.  The  latter 
at  fifteen  cents  a  dozen  will  go  far  in 
furnishing  warm  nourishing  breakfasts. 
So,  also,  will  graham  crackers  at  ten 
cents  a  box. 

For  supper  there  are  the  canned 
soups,  which  come  in  great  variety 
and  excellent  quality  at  ten  cents  per 
can,  and  need  only  diluting  and  heating. 
A  can  is  supposed  to  serve  six  plates, 
but  I  figure  that  a  hungry  girl  will 
make  only  two  or  three  meals  of  it 
with  rolls  and  fruit.  The  left-over 
portion  should,  of  course,  be  emptied 
at  once  into  a  bowl  and  kept  in  a  cool 
place;  this  rule  holds  good  with  all 
canned  foods.  Then  there  is  the  ever 
popular  can  of  baked  beans  at  ten  cents 
and  the  prepared  spaghetti  that  con- 
tains most  of  the  elements  of  a  complete 
meal.  In  many  places  a  fine  quality 
of  butter  can  be  bought  in  quarter- 
pound  cartons;  it  can  be  judiciously 
used  for  creamed,  dried  beef  or  salmon 
or  on  the  rolls,  occasionally.  A  girl 
who  is  at  all  handy  will  be  able  to  fix 
up  a  tiny  window-box  that  will  keep 
food  fresh  in  all  but  summer  weather. 
When  the  days  grow  warm  and  there 
is  not  so  much  need  of  hot  food,  she 
will  be  able  to  buy  in  tiny  quantities 
at  the  delicatessen  stores  foods  which 
will  be  within  her  reach  and  yet  nourish- 
ing. And  as  one  goes  on  experimenting 
she  will  find  great  possibilities  for  im- 
proving her  diet. 

When  a  girl  can  find  another  who 
shares  her  ideals,  the  question  of  ex- 
pense as  well  as  company  is  greatly 
simplified.  To  me  this  seems  the  more 
normal  way  to  live.  But  if  she  chooses 
to  work  out  her  problems  alone,  she 
can  do  so  satisfactorily.  It  does  not 
seem  wise  to  make  Sunday  a  day  of 
extra  saving;  it  ought  to  be  a  day  looked 


440 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


forward  to  for  some  special  treat. 

I  have  gone  into  this  subject  at  length, 
because  it  seems  to  be  such  a  vital  one. 
One  of  the  best  assets  a  self-supporting 
girl  can  have  is  an  abounding  physical 
life,  and  this  can  be  maintained  only 


by  sufficient  food,  properly  chosen. 
I  am  sure  that  any  dietitian  will  agree 
with  me  that  the  program  laid  down 
in  the  November  issue  will,  if  carried 
out  for  any  length  of  time,  result  in 
disaster. 


Linens  for  the  Fair  Bride 


By  Janet  Young  Norton 


THERE  is  perhaps  no  possession 
dearer  to  the  heart  of  the 
bride  of  to-day  than  her  well- 
filled  linen  chest.  Never  were  the 
linens  for  household  use  as  beautiful 
in  texture  or  as  varied  in  patterns  as 
they  are  at  the  present  time.  The 
choice  of  patterns  in  our  grandmother's 
day  was  rather  limited  as  to  variety, 
and  every  bride,  after  selecting  the 
best,  always  added  a  **rain  drop'* 
cloth  with  a  Grecian  key  border  as 
the  ''company  cloth"  to  her  purchases. 
The  bride  of  to-day  also  adds  the 
favorite  old  pattern  to  her  chest,  but 
the  design  now  boasts  several  sized 
dots  and  a  number  of  attractive  borders. 

The  vogue  of  the  round  table  brought 
round  cloths  into  use,  but  they  proved 
a  difficult  problem  as  to  laundering 
and  did  not  become  popular.  Now 
square  tables  are  coming  into  their 
own  again,  on  account  of  their  more 
convenient  size  for  decorating,  and 
the  square  cloths  are  more  beautiful 
than  ever. 

The  leader  is  the  cloth  of  plain  heavy 
damask  with  the  satin  border  stripe, 
for  it  shows  the  centrepiece  off  to 
advantage  when  one  is  used,  where 
the  more  complicated  patterns  take 
from  its  beauty. 

Among  the  small  patterned  cloths 
there  is  the  old  rain  spot,  and  wafer- 
sized  spots  run  between  the  stripes 
to  form  the  border,  the  Flax  flower 
and  Shamrock,  Iris  flower  and  foliage 


and  a  number  of  other  attractive 
patterns.  The  broad  diagonal  stripes 
that  stretch  from  corner  to  comer 
of  the  square  table  and  the  straight 
stripes  that  run  its  length  are  all 
popular  and  show  the  Grecian  key 
and  other  borders. 

The  Vatican  scroll,  Woodbine  scroll. 
Game  birds,  Aquatic  birds  and  water 
lillies  are  the  good  patterns  in  the 
larger  designs. 

Next  in  consideration  are  the  hand- 
embroidered  on  fine  damask,  these 
cloths  have  the  scalloped  edges  with 
the  design  covering  the  center  of  the 
table  top.  Some  also  have  lace  medal- 
lions, insertions  and  edges;  the  more 
elaborate  they  are  the  more  expensive 
they  become,  and  they  are  not  as 
durable  as  the  regular  patterned  cloths. 
The  Cluny  lace  still  holds  first  place 
with  the  Filet  laces  a  close  second, 
and  in  all  cases  the  serviettes  come 
to  match. 

The  Madeira  embroidery  is  more 
beautiful  than  ever  and  is  most  popular 
for  centerpieces  and  doylies,  also  for 
luncheon  cloths  and  tray  cloths.  No 
wedding  chest  is  complete  without 
some  of  the  pretty  luncheon  squares 
and  linen  sets.  There  are  some  in 
the  natural  linen,  hemstitched  and  em- 
broidered in  natural  colors,  some  in 
white  art  linen,  embroidered  in  the 
Dresden  blues  copying  the  dish  pat- 
terns and  borders. 

Rather  a  new  idea  is  to  buy  the  blue 


LINENS  FOR  THE  FAIR  BRIDE 


441 


and  white  Japanese  toweling  and  fag- 
got stitch  the  narrow  stripes  together 
with  blue  cotton,  finishing  the  ends 
that  hang  over  in  deep  points  with 
feather-stitched  hems,  and  the  ser- 
viettes to  match  are  also  feather- 
stitched.  These  are  very  pretty  to 
use  with  the  blue  Japanese  china  and 
are  very  easily  made.  They  also  make 
fresh  looking  breakfast  tray  cloths. 

Of  course,  centerpieces  are  in  vogue 
still,  but  there  are  so  many  floral 
decorations,  table  bows  and  fancy  cen- 
ter china  decorations  that  are  new 
that  they  are  not  as  often  seen  as 
formerly.  The  reason  for  this  may 
also  be  attributed  to  the  lace  medal- 
lion cloths  which,  of  course  extra  cen- 
terpieces cannot  be  used  with,  as  they 
are  sufficient  in  themselves.  The  mono- 
grams are  used  a  great  deal  in  all 
sizes  according  to  personal  taste,  but 
the  formal  cloths  show  them  at  the 
comers  or  at  the  ends  in  the  large 
sizes,  some  in  the  flat  work  and  some 
in  the  filled  work. 

Quite  as  elaborate  as  the  table 
linens  are  the  bed  linens  and  the  one 
time  plain  deep  hemmed  sheet  looks 
quite  modest  and  old-fashioned  beside 
the  hemstitched  hems  and  the  lace 
insertioned  hems,  the  elaborately  em- 
broidered top  sheets  in  Louis  16th 
baskets,  bow  knots  and  roses,  and  the 
ribbon-run  borders  of  the  most  dressy 
ones.  Then  the  spreads  are  a  joy  to 
behold,  the  dimities,  the  hand-drawn 
canvas  spreads,  the  hand  embroidered 
muslin  spreads,  the  cluny  and  filet 
lace  affairs  to  be  tied  with  huge  satin 
bows  at  the  brass  bedposts,  with  the 
bolster  rolls  to  match  are  a  few  that 
are  offered  the  bride  for  approval. 
Some  people  who  are  making  their 
pillow  cases  are  using  the  Bohemian 
Idea  of  making  the  closed  end  with 
a  four  inch  insertion  of  lace  on  either 
side  to  show  the  colored  case  beneath, 
and  the  hem  end  then  is  hemstitched 
and  initialed.  Towels  are  in  all  sizes 
and  weaves  and  are  coming  in  for  their 


share  of  embroidering,  and  lace  ends, 
even  the  common  sense  bath  towels 
cannot  escape  the  modem  needle  wom- 
an's eiiergetic  enthusiasm. 

In  the  kitchen  towels  the  fad  is 
more  pronounced  than  ever  to  have 
towels  in  different  patterns  and  colors 
to  use  for  different  purposes,  which 
a  small  memorandum  book  sets  forth 
for  a  continual  reminder  to  the  maids 
who  care  for  them.  Hence  the  big 
blue  solid  checks  are  dubbed  * 'Scul- 
lery," the  small  blue  blocks  are  * 'kit- 
chen dish  wipers,"  the  fine  line  blue 
blocks  are  "glass  and  silver"  towels, 
while  the-  red  fine  lines  are  ''general 
dish  towels."  Then  there  are  coarse 
and  fine  dish  cloths  with  loops  on 
to  hang  them  by,  the  cut  glass  cloths 
and  towels  that  must  never  come 
in  contact  with  the  slightest  grease 
are  quite  formidable  in  variety.  The 
kitchen  roller  of  other  days  is  added 
to  the  collection,  but  in  many  of  the 
kitchens  now  the  paper  towel  rolls 
are  thought  more  sanitary.  Then  there 
is  the  array  of  refrigerator  linen  bags, 
fish  rollers,  celery  rollers,  binders  for 
boiling  vegetables  or  certain  meats 
in,  spice  bags,  cheese  bags  and  cheese 
cloth  squares  for  handling  cooked  foods 
and  to  bale  platters,  when  the  meats 
weep  their  juices  too  freely,  before 
serving. 

All  these  linen  accessories  have  to 
be  thought  of  for  the  bride's  new  kit- 
chen, though  they  are  not  strictly 
speaking  occupants  of  the  linen  chest. 
Blanket  bags  of  coarse  white  linen 
are  made  boxed  so  that  they  hold  one 
pair  of  double  blankets  after  they  have 
been  cleaned  or  laundered  to  pack 
away  for  the  summer,  each  having 
the  lettered  information  on  them  as 
to  which  bed  the  contents  belong. 

In  a  pocket  in  the  lid  of  the  latest 
linen  chest  there  is  an  embroidered 
linen  envelope  which  holds  a  linen 
bound  book  containing  important  in- 
formation for  the  caring  of  fine  linens, 
proper    folding    of    them,    recipes    for 


442 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


taking  out  spots  of  all  kinds,  proper 
darning  and  mending  instructions,  right 
way  to  launder  them,  and  the  correct 
way  to  make  up  laundry  and  closet 
lists.  This  is  quite  valuable  especially 
for  the  young  housekeeper,  as  dire 
consternation  seizes  her  when  an  acci- 
dent happens  in  the  way  of  the  over- 
turned Claret  glass  or  the  spilling  of 
small  fruits  that  are  sure  to  leave  a 
stain.  Just  a  few  * 'first  aid'*  remedies 
are  copied  here  for  the  benefit  of  those 
who  may  not  be  able  to  procure  the 
little  book,  and  they  are  the  most 
reUable  ones  known. 

"Ink  spots  are  removed  from  Unen 
by  dipping  the  part  into  hot  water 
then  spreading  it  smoothly  on  the 
back  of  the  spoon  or  on  the  hand, 
and  pouring  a  few  drops  of  Oxalic 
acid  or  '.salts  of  Sorrel  over  the  spot, 
thoroughly  rinsing  and  rubbing  in  cold 
water  until  removed.  This  must  be 
done  before  it  is  put  into  the  regular 
wash." 


**  Grease  spots  are  removed  by  rub- 
bing over  with  yellow  soap  and  rins- 
ing   in    hot    water.*' 

"Fruit  and  wine  spots  may  be  re- 
moved by  dipping  in  a  solution  of  Sal 
Ammonia  or  spirits  of  wine  and  rins- 
ing in  cool  water.  Coflfee  and  tea 
stains  are  easily  .  removed  with  boil- 
ing water,  while  iron  rust  will  usually 
remove  readily  with  the  application 
of  salts  of  lemon." 

These  recipes  will  also  remove  all 
stains  from  the  silence  cloths,  which 
are  not  washed  as  often  as  the  table 
linen,  and  the  spots  standing  grow 
black  and  ugly  if  not  looked  after 
promptly. 

It  is  also  advisable,  if  laundered  linen 
for  special  occasions  is  not  used  often, 
to  wrap  it  in  a  deeply  blued  cloth, 
to  keep  it  from  turning  yellow.  The 
centerpiece  rolls  and  the  tablecloth 
rolls  are  better  than  folding,  if  one 
has  the  room  to  keep  them  in  that, 
way. 


Watch  Your  Step! 

By  Grace  Barton  Allen  Cook 


A  CELEBRATED  mustard  man- 
ufacturer once  said,  that  it 
was  not  the  mustard  that 
was  eaten  which  paid  a  profit,  but 
that  which  was  left  on  the  plate.  He 
particularized  a  great  general  truth. 
It  is  the  waste  that  costs,  in  other 
things  as  in  mustard.  Waste  of  money 
costs  the  deprivation  of  what  is  really 
needed;  waste  of  time  costs  the  sacri- 
fice of  necessary  duty,  or  rest,  or  recrea- 
tion; waste  of  energy  costs  strength, 
spirits  and  vitality.  There  is  probably 
nowhere  that  the  latter  waste  goes 
on  so  tmceasingly  and  insidiously  as 
in  housekeeping,  especially  in  homes 
where  the  income  is  so  modest  that 
most  or  all  of  the  work  is  done  by 
the   housemother,    whose   vital   powers 


are  continually  "on  tap,"  and  being 
drawn  upon  in  the  service  of  the  other 
members  of  the  family.  What  with 
the  duties  legitimately  hers,  and  those 
imposed  upon  her  by  the  thoughtless- 
ness of  persons  about  her,  she  comes 
as  near  solving  the  problem  of  per- 
petual motion  as  any  hxmian  being 
is  ever  likely  to  do.  "Mind  your 
step,"  tired  little  lady!  Don't  take 
so  many  unnecessarily,  or  you  will 
cease  taking  any  at  all,  long  before 
you  ought. 

You  will  say,  perhaps,  that  all  this 
going  to  and  fro  is  part  of  the  day's 
work,  and  therefore  unavoidable;  but 
is  all  of  it  absolutely  essential?  Will 
not  some  of  it  prove,  on  examination, 
to  be  "waste  motion,"  consequent  on 


WATCH  YOUR  STEP! 


443 


defective  equipment,  or  poor  adjust- 
ment, or  lack  of  consecutive  planning? 
Few  women  live  in  a  house  which 
they  have  designed  themselves,  in  ac- 
cordance with  their  special  needs;  and 
it  is  a  question  of  adaptation,  which 
may  be  more  or  less  successful,  accord- 
ing to  the  thought  given  to  overcoming 
faults  of  existing  arrangements. 

Of  all  such  existing  arrangements, 
long  halls  and  large  kitchens  are  most 
useless  consumers  of  energy,  multi- 
plying steps  and  holding  apart  the 
foci  of  operations  instead  of  keeping 
them  concentrated.  Concentration  — 
that  is  the  secret  of  efficiency.  Plan 
any  piece  of  work  so  that  you  need 
take  but  three  steps  where  formerly 
you  took  a  dozen,  and  just  so  much 
energy  is  saved  toward  performing 
the  next  task. 

This  is  a  day  of  labor-saving  devices, 
and  women  who  cannot  afford  to 
fit  up  their  homes  with  such  are  apt 
to  think  that,  if  they  could,  the  domes- 
tic problem  would  be  solved.  But  not 
all  labor-saving  inventions  are  worthy 
the  name,  and  of  those  that  are,  many 
increase  labor  in  one  direction  while 
they  save  it  in  another,  and  are  use- 
ful only  where  there  is  a  large  family, 
or  servants  are  kept.  Even  in  the 
case  of  those  which  are  practical  for 
small  families,  the  possession  of  too 
many  is  apt  to  clog  progress  rather 
than  help  it,  where  the  mistress  of 
the  house  is  also  the  maid-of-all-work. 
Every  such  contrivance,  in  order  to 
be  efficient,  must  be  kept  clean  and 
in  order,  and  in  an  easily  accessible 
place:  and  the  care  and  bestowing  of 
such  things  is  no  light  item  in  the 
week's  labor  of  one  pair  of  hands. 
Let  the  housekeeper  consider  which 
of  her  household  tasks  bear  most 
heavily  upon  her,  and  if  she  can  afford 
any  machine  which  will  shorten  and 
lighten  those  particular  duties,  it  will 
be  a  wise  investment.  But  any  one 
person  who  should  attempt  to  take 
care  of   and   operate   a   special   labor- 


saving  device  for  every  item  of  house- 
hold labor,  would  probably  die  of 
overwork  within  a  month. 

Consider,  first,  the  equipment  you 
already  have,  and  see  if  you  cannot 
arrange  it  to  better  advantage.  "Watch 
your  step!"  Have  a  table  near  the 
stove,  so  that  you  need  not  walk  the 
length  of  the  kitchen  to  set  down  your 
cookery;  and  a  piece  of  zinc,  nailed 
over  the  table  top  by  your  own  hands, 
will  free  your  mind  of  any  hesitation 
because  of  the  heat  or  blackness  of 
the  saucepan  —  merely  wiping  with  a 
wet  cloth  will  clean  the  zinc,  which 
cannot  burn  and  does  not  need  scour- 
ing. Have  another  table,  or  a  shelf, 
just  inside  the  kitchen  door  which 
leads  to  the  dining-room,  so  that 
in  clearing  the  table  after  a  meal 
there  will  be  only  a  short  distance 
to  carry  the  soiled  tableware.  Don't 
think  that  your  entire  dinner-set  must 
be  together  in  the  dining-room  china 
closet.  Keep  the  meat  platters  and 
vegetable  dishes  within  easy  reach 
in  the  kitchen  cupboard,  instead  of 
where  you  must  take  a  long  trip  after 
them  when  preparing  dinner.  Remem- 
ber that,  where  so  much  has  to  be 
done,  every  avoidable  instance  of  walk- 
ing and  standing,  stooping,  straining 
and  reaching,  is  so  much  dead  loss 
of  energy  —  so  much  uselessly  sub- 
tracted from  your  bodily  capital. 

If  you  have  no  kitchen  cabinet, 
have  a  common  deal  table,  with  drawers, 
for  cooking,  and  have  the  drawers 
divided,  by  strips  of  wood  nailed  in 
lengthwise,  into  compartments  to  hold 
knives,  forks,  spoons,  egg-beater,  nut- 
meg grater  and  other  such  kitchen 
hardware,  which  may  thus  be  kept 
under  your  hand  without  confusion. 
Put  up  a  narrow  shelf  behind  the 
stove,  not  too  high,  and  keep  there 
the  matches,  sugar,  salt  and  flour 
dredger,  and  holders  for  handling  hot 
things,  so  they  will  be  always  at  the 
spot  where  they  are  needed.  Even 
if  you  don't  believe  in  a  long-handled 


444 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


mop  for  washing  the  floor,  have  one 
for  wiping  up  accidental  splashes  — 
it  will  save  your  back.  Hang  up  the 
dish  towels  within  reach  of  the  sink 
instead  of  on  the  other  side  of  the  room. 

Don't  do  any  kind  of  work  in  a  hard 
way  just  because  your  mother  and 
grandmother  did  it  so.  Recollect,  when 
you  hear  about  the  wonderful  amoimt 
of  work  they  did,  that  you  do  a  great 
many  things  they  were  not  expected 
to  do,  and  are  living  up  to  quite  a 
different  standard  from  that  prevail- 
ing fifty  years  ago.  Probably  your 
grandmother  would  have  thought  it 
little  short  of  a  sin  not  to  stand  up 
while  ironing;  but  you  will  find  that, 
by  resting  upon  a  tall  office  stool  while 
thus  occupied,  your  feet  will  be  saved 
a  great  deal  of  discomfort.  Keep  a 
light  stool  of  ordinary  height  under 
the  kitchen  sink,  to  sit  on  while  you 
wash  dishes.  If  there  is  a  table  or 
shelf  at  each  end  of  the  sink,  you  can 
easily  wash  and  wipe  dishes  while 
seated.  One  or  the  other  of  these 
stools  will  be  the  right  height  to  sit 
on  when  cooking  those  things  which 
require  to  be  ** stirred  constantly'*  while 
they  are  on  the  stove. 

Trifles  make  an  appreciable  differ- 
ence in  the  ease  of  carrying  on  the 
day's  work.  There  is  no  economy  of 
money,  and  a  great  waste  of  time 
and  nervous  irritation,  when  the  fit- 
tings of  the  house  are  allowed  to  remain 
out  of  repair.  Before  buying  new  con- 
veniences, see  that  those  you  have 
are  in  good  working  order.  Replace 
that  broken  spring  on  the  screen  door, 
so  that  it  will  close  itself  instead  of 
having  to  be  pulled  shut  every  time 
you  pass  through.  Other  people  are 
not  so  careful  —  they  leave  it  open, 
and  then  you  are  the  one  who  has  to 
fight  the  battle  with  flies.  Have  a 
carpenter  loosen  that  window  which 
you  can  never  open  without  a  prolonged 
struggle.  If  there  is  a  door  which 
ought  to  stay  open  and  won't,  put  a 
little   hasp    on    the    baseboard   behind 


it  and  a  screweye  on  the  door  itself 
near  the  bottom  and  hook  it  back, 
so  you  will  not  be  obliged  to  run  and 
open  it  every  time  the  wind  blows.  Do 
not  wear  old  shoes  with  imeven  heels 
while  you  are  working;  not  beacuse 
of  their  appearance,  although  that  is 
unsightly,  but  because  the  crooked 
heels  aUow  the  foot  to  slip  sidewise 
in  the  shoe  so  that  the  weight  of  the 
body  is  not  properly  supported,  and 
the  fatigue  of  standing  and  walking 
is  doubled. 

Watch  your  steps  going  up  and 
down  the  stairs.  Save  some  of  them  by 
having  another  broom,  brush,  dust- 
pan and  carpet-sweeper,  and  keeping 
them  on  the  second  floor.  This  will 
not  cost  double,  because  where  there 
are  too  sets,  each  gets  but  half  the  wear, 
and  so  lasts  twice  as  long.  Establish 
up  there  a  box  holding  a  tack  hanmier, 
a  few  nails,  a  gimlet  and  a  ball  of 
twine;  it  will  save  many  a  trip  to  the 
kitchen.  Needles,  thread,  thimble  and 
scissors  on  each  floor  are  another  cost- 
less convenience,  while  a  scrap  basket  for 
every  room  economizes  innumerable 
steps. 

Things  which  belong  upstairs  are 
continually  being  left  downstairs,  and 
vice  versa.  Have  a  stand  or  shelf 
at  the  foot  of  the  staircase  for  the 
avowed  purpose  of  serving  as  a  station 
for  the  things  that  should  go  up,  and 
place  them  there  as  you  come  across 
them  during  your  work,  with  the 
general  understanding  that  whoever 
makes  the  journey  shall  carry  some- 
thing. A  similar  station  at  the  top 
of  the  stairs  shotdd  receive  articles 
to  be  taken  down.  It  also  saves  ntiuch 
special  stair-climbing  to  keep  a  small 
supply  of  clean  collars  and  kandker- 
chiefs  on  the  lower  floor,  to  be  drawn 
upon  in  emergencies;  and  by  all  means 
have  a  clock,  no  matter  how  cheap, 
in  every  room,  so  that  you  can  see 
what  time  it  is  without  rising  from 
your  chair. 

A    disorderly    family    is    the    most 


WATCH  YOUR  STEP! 


445 


reckless  squanderer  of  the  house-mother's 
energy.  For  each  person  to  pick  up 
after  himself  is  not  much;  but  for 
one  person,  already  carrying  the  bur- 
den of  regular  work,  to  pick  up  after 
all  the  rest,  is  an  unrighteous  tax 
which  should  never  be  exacted  or 
paid.  Watch  your  step.  Teach  the 
children  that  they  must  not  throw 
down  their  books  and  toys  and  clothes 
for  you  to  gather  up  and  put  away. 
The  lesson  will  benefit  them  as  much 
as  it  will  you.  The  time  is  surely 
coming  when  they  will  not  have  you 
to  bring  order  out  of  their  chaos; 
and  if  they  have  not  learned  to  take 
care  of  their  possessions,  wherever  they 
go  they  will  be  an  inconvenience  to 
themselves  and  an  irritation  to  other 
people. 

If  the  head  of  the  family  has  been 
reared  by  an  injudicious  mother  and 
has  grown  to  manhood  in  the  habit 
of  being  waited  upon  in  this  way, 
it  is  probably  useless  to  attempt  to 
change  what  has  grown  into  a  com- 
fortable second  nature.  It  is  always 
worth  while  to  make  the  effort  in  the 
first  place,  but  never  worth  while  to 
keep  it  up  after  experience  has  proved 
that  it  is  of  no  effect.  There  was 
once  a  woman  who  tried  for  forty 
years  to  break  her  husband  of  the 
habit  of  leaving  his  muddy  boots 
in  the  dining-room.  At  the  begin- 
ning of  the  forty-first  year  the  boots 
were  still  there  for  her  to  pick  up  and 
put  away.  She  might  have  known 
at  the  end  of  twelve  months  that 
reformation  was  hopeless,  and  so  saved 
thirty-nine  years  of  controversy.  Give 
up  the  struggle,  not  because  this  fixed 
habit  of  selfish  disorder  is  just  or  right, 
or  "one   to   which   it  is   your   duty   to 


yield,  but  because  you  will  have  to 
endure  it  anyway,  and  it  is  expedient 
to  do  so  amiably.  The  only  recourse 
in  such  a  case  is  to  establish  some 
system  for  yourself  which  shall  make 
the  rectifying  of  the  disorder  as  easy 
as  possible.  If  you  cannot  keep  shoes 
and  rubbers  out  of  the  living-room, 
have  a  box  there  covered  with  cretonne 
or  carpet,  with  a  hinged  lid,  to  hide 
them  in.  Give  up  a  small  drawer 
in  the  sideboard  or  table  for  stray 
collars,  handkerchiefs  and  gloves.  Put 
up  a  high  shelf  in  the  hall  for  the  hats, 
and  always  put  them  in  that  one  place 
when  you  collect  them  from  the  chairs 
and  couch,  so  that  you  will  not  be 
obliged  to  rim  all  over  the  house  to 
help  find  them.  One  of  the  hardest 
lessons  a  wife  and  mother  has  to  learn 
is,  not  to  kick  against  the  pricks  when 
she  finds  that  they  cannot  be  kicked 
out  of  existence,  but  are  permanent 
fixtures.  Accept  them  —  but  pad  them 
as  much  as  you  can. 

Watch  your  step.  Spare  yourself, 
not  by  sacrificing  your  housekeeping 
ideals,  but  by  simplifying  them  and 
making  it  easy  to  do  your  work  well. 
It  is  not  laziness  to  achieve  the  greatest 
result  with  the  least  expenditure  of 
energy;  it  is  what  political  economists 
call  conservation  of  natural  resources. 
Your  time  and  strength  and  service 
are  a  large  part  of  the  wealth  of  the 
family,  and  should  be  administered 
as  carefully  as  any  of  its  other  fimds. 
Do  not  think,  because  they  cost  no 
money,  they  have  no  intrinsic  value, 
and  are  to  be  lavished  without  thought 
of  possible  bankruptcy.  Be  a  little 
good  to  yourself,  and  you  will  have 
a  longer  time  to  be  good  to  those  you 
love. 


446 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


THE 

BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE 

OF 
Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics 

Subscription  $1.00  per  Year  Single  Copies,  10c 
Foreign  Postage  :  To  Canada,  20c  per  Year 
To  OTHER  Foreign  Countries,  40c  per  Year 

TO  SUBSCRIBERS 

The  date  stamped  on  the -wrapper  is  the  date 
on  which  your  subscription  expires;  it  is,  also,  an 
acknowledgment  that  a  subscription,  or  a  renewal 
Df  the  same,  has  been  received. 

Please  renew  on  recdpt  of  the  colored  blank 
enclosed  for  this  purpose. 

In  sending  notice  to  renew  a  subscription  or 
change  of  address,  please  give  the  old  address 
as  well  as  the  new. 

In  referring  to  an  original  entry,  we  must  know 
the  name  as  it  was  formerly  given,  together  with 
the  Post-office,    County,   State,  Post-office  Box, 

or  Street  Number, 

■  ■  ■  ^ 

Stattmtni  c/gumerskip  and  managtuunt  ms  rtfuired  by 
the  Act  o/  Congrttt  9/ August  24,  /911, 

Editor:  Janet  M.  Hill. 
Business  Managers:  R.  B.  Hill,  B.  M.  Hill. 

Owners : 

B.  M.  Hill,  Janet  M.  Hill,  R.  B.  Hill. 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

^*         PUBLISISED  TEN  TIMES  A  YEAR  BY 

The  Boston  Cooking- School  Magazine  Co., 
372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

BWTKBKP  AT  BOTOK  PogT-OmCB  AB  SbOOWD-CLAMI  MaTTBM 

THE  VIGIL-KEEPERS 

Across  the  city  heights 

The  winds  have  murmured  peace; 
In  windows  friendly  lights 

From  glowing  cease. 

Yet  I  turn  not  to  rest 

In  deep,  calm  arms  of  sleep; 
Till  night  fades  in  the  west, 

Long  vigil  must  I  keep. 

He  sleeps  so  quietly, 

The  great  night  broods  around, 
A  fear  steals  over  me  — 

A  loneliness  profound. 

But  shining,  here  and  there, 

Like  golden,  drowsy  flow'rs, 
Soft  lights  show  that  hearts  share 

With  me  the  midnight  hours. 

I  know  that  faithful  near 

And  far  beyond  my  sight, 
Hearts  keep  o'er  some  one  dear 

Love  watches  of  the  night. 

Arthur  Wallace  Peach 


HAPPY  NEW  YEAR 

Christmas  giving  for  1913  is  now  past; 
New  Year  Congrattilations  are  being 
spoken  and  new  resolutions,  made  for 
1914.  Among  the  latter  we  hope  you 
have  resolved  to  continue  your  sub- 
scription to  the  Cooking-School  Maga- 
zine. The  prospects  of  presenting  to 
our  readers,  in  the  present  year,  new  and 
interesting  features  are  promising,  indeed. 
Some  of  our  plans  may  prove  a  pleas- 
ing surprise  to  all.  Nothing  is  too 
good  for  the  woman  who  would  look 
well  to  the  ways  of  her  household. 

CHEERFUL  HOMES 

PLAIN  housekeeping,  with  stand- 
ard goods  in  everything,  is  the 
maxim  by  which  this  publication  is 
guided.  On  our  advertising  pages  we 
present  the  best  brands  of  flour,  the  best 
groceries  and  the  best  household  utensils 
and  appliances  to  be  found  in  the  mar- 
ket. All  these  items  are  first-class  and 
especially  adapted  to  the  needs  of 
housekeepers.  In  selecting  and  pur- 
chasing from  these  goods  no  one  can 
make  a  mistake  or  go  wrong.  And 
where  health  and  comfort  are  concerned 
it  pays  to  buy  the  best  of  everything. 

While  other  periodicals,  with  scarcely 
an  exception,  have  added  at  least  one 
half  to  the  price  of  subscription,  for  one 
dollar  we  are  trying  constantly  to  im- 
prove the  character  and  quality  of  our 
ocntents.  And  as  a  dollar  publication 
we  are  now  aware  of  no  successful  com- 
petitor. 

A  woman,  who  was  asked  recently 
why  she  liked  the  Cooking-School  Mag- 
azine, replied  :**  Because  it  helps  me  make 
the  most  of  everything."  How  to  make 
a  business  or  an  occupation  successfttl 
or  paying  is  a  condition  every  one  must 
face.  However,  to  be  well  informed 
and  equipped  in  our  special  line  is  very 
important.  Our  main  ambition  is  to 
help  the  housekeeper  in  making  the 
most  of  everything.  To  aid  even  a 
little    in    the    realization    of   healthful, 


EDITORIALS 


447 


cheerful  homes  is,  we  think,  an  object 
worth  striving  for. 

OPINIONS  CHANGE 

OPINIONS  change!  The  fact  has 
never  been  so  clearly  shown  as 
during  the  recent  discussions  about 
the  probabilities  of  war  and  the  pos- 
sibilities of  disarmament.  Five  years 
ago  Englishmen  believed  that  the  for- 
eigner— that  is,  the  German — wanted 
English  trade,  wealth  and  colonies, 
and  would  take  them  tuiless  England 
defended  them  by  her  arms;  now  all 
educated  men  realize  that  nations  do 
not  go  to  war  for  these  things,  and  that 
trade  and  wealth  cannot  be  "taken." 
Some  time  ago,  we  were  told  that  man 
was  a  fighting  animal  and  wanted  an 
outlet  for  his  passions;  to-day,  among 
the  great  mass  of  population  in  France 
and  Germany,  one  finds  either  indif- 
ference or  nausea  with  regard  to  an 
international  conflict  and  a  clearly  in- 
dicated determination  not  to  be  drag- 
ged into  it.  A  few  years  ago  it  was 
thought  that  German  newspapers  in- 
dicated the  temper  of  the  people  when 
they  advocated  a  larger  navy;  now  we 
know  that  Admiral  Tirpitz  had  the 
Knipps  buy  a  newspaper  or  two,  and 
that  the  German  public  was  not  con- 
cerned in  the  matter.  Twenty  years 
ago  Englishmen  boasted  of  the  Crimean 
War;  now  no  one  attempts  to  defend  it. 
Ten  years  ago  Englishmen  boasted  of 
their  victories  in  South  Africa;  now 
they  own  they  were  scarcely  justifiable. 
A  few  years  ago  we  believed  England 
was  satisfied  to  expend  millions  for 
dreadnoughts;  this  year  we  find  the 
Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  sajdng 
that  "he  is  genuinely  alarmed  about 
the  expenditure  on  armaments";  that 
*'  it  can  only  end  in  terrible  disaster," 
and  that  "  few  people  realize  how  near 
England  has  been  to  that  disaster  during 
the  last  twelve  months."  Eighteen 
months  ago  Sir  Edward  Grey  said:  "It 
is  an  axiom  that  whenever  a  war  breaks 
out  in  the  Balkans,  it  will  be  impossible 


to  prevent  one  or  more  of  the  Great 
Powers  being  drawn  into  the  war;*' 
a  couple  of  months  after  the  war  broke 
out,  Mr.  Bonar  Law  affirmed  that  the 
danger  of  a  European  war  was  gone, 
and  the  London  Times  remarked,  "  Who 
would  have  dared  twelve  months  ago  to 
foretell  that  a  great  and  prolonged 
struggle  could  be  fought  out  in  the 
Balkans  without  causing  such  a  war? " 
The  times  change  and  men  change  with 
them.    In  this  way  progress  is  made. 

DOMESTIC  SCIENCE, 
EAST  AND  WEST 

IT  would  seem  that  the  people  of  our 
western  borders  are  more  interested 
in  domestic  science  than  are  they,  for 
instance,  of  so-called  cultivated  New 
England.  The  courses  of  instruction 
in  western  schools  and  colleges  are 
thought  to  be  more  practical  in  char- 
acter. How  to  earn  a  living  seems  to  be 
the  item  of  foremost  concern.  Hence 
preparation  for  some  real  life  work  in- 
spires the  work  done  in  our  western 
institutions.  Industrial  training  of  all 
kinds  is  becoming  most  popular.  In 
many  a  school  of  the  west  a  fiilly  equip- 
ped department  for  teaching  domestic 
science  has  been  provided  for.  This 
equipment  includes  a  class-room  and 
laboratory,  a  kitchen,  laimdry,  dining- 
room,  reception  room,  bedroom  and  bath 
— all  furnished  with  the  best  of  modem 
appliances  and  accessories.  Thus  the 
proper  apparatus  and  means  are  at 
hand  to  impart  practical  instruction 
in   scientific   housekeeping. 

This  rapid  increase  of  industrial  train- 
ing is  one  of  the  most  remarkable  sign 
of  the  times;  for  not  only  in  western 
institutions  activity  and  development 
along  this  line  are  indicated,  but  also, 
in  the  courses  of  study  in  household 
arts  now  given  at  Pratt  Institute,  Teach- 
ers College  and  Simmons  College,  grow- 
ing interest  in  the  subject  is  equally 
marked. 

All  this  means  a  good  deal.  House- 
keeping has  become  a  business,  a  call- 


448 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


ing,  in  the  pursuit  of  which  intelligence 
and  training  are  called  for.  Education, 
in  the  future,  will  be  less  theoretical 
and  more  practical.  It  will  consist  in 
cultivating  the  natural  activities  of  the 
htiman  being  in  ways  that  lead  to  nat- 
ural, wholesome  and  noble  living. 

AS  OTHERS  SEE  US 

EAT  hearty,  drink  hearty,  work 
hearty"  sums  up  in  brief  the 
food  philosophy  of  Dr  Woods 
Hutchinson,  as  expounded  in  an  article 
in  Nash's  Magazine.  It  is  a  jolly 
Rabelaisian  maxim  of  very  seasonable 
application.  Dr.  Woods  Hutchinson  is 
the  implacable  enemy  of  faddism  in 
all  the  affairs  of  life  especially  of  the 
faddism  that  concerns  itself  with  what 
we  eat  and  drink.  He  is  of  that  school 
of  philosophers  who  hold  with  us  that 
the  prolonged  existence  of  any  generally 
pronounced  preference  is  fairly  good 
evidence  that  the  thing  preferred  is 
the  right  thing,  while  he  points  out 
that  the  underlying  principle  of  all  so- 
called  food  reform  is  to  find  out  what 
people  like  to  eat  and  then  tell  them 
that  they  must  not  take  it  on  peril  of 
their  lives. 

White  bread,  he  dares  to  say,  is 
good  food;  people  always  have  preferred 
it  and  always  will  prefer  it,  while  as 
to  meat,  after  all  the  claims  of  all  the 
other  proteins  have  been  thrashed  out 
and  considered  and  all  the  alleged  calami- 
ties and  diseases  said  to  follow  in  the 
train  of  meat-eating  have  gone  up  in 
smoke,  we  are  drawn  to  the  conclusion 
that  as  a  practical,  constant,  everyday, 
all  the  year  round  source  of  protein  for 
adults  there  is  nothing  like  meat. 

Here  then  are  his  conclusions  upon 
the  diet  theory.  "The  new  diet  theory 
is  based  upon  the  idea  of  progress,  of 
continuous  improvement,  of  never  rest- 
ing satisfied  with  things  as  they  are. 
It  is  not  in  the  least  concerned  with 
the  question  of  upon  how  small  pro- 
portions of  either  protein,  or  sugar  or 
fat,  or  upon  how  small  quantities  of 


actual  food  the  body  may  be  maintained 
in  a  state  of  balance  and  moderate 
health.  Its  problem,  on  the  contrary, 
is  testing  how  large  amoimts  of  varied 
nutritious  foods  the  body  can  consume 
and  turn  to  good  account,  in  increase 
of  working  power  and  of  resistance 
against  disease.  No  diet  is  too  liberal 
or  too  expensive  which  will,  so  to  speak, 
yield  good  returns  on  the  investment, 
pay  commercial  interest  on  the  food 
cost,  however  great.  It  looks  upon 
the  human  machine,  whether  our  own 
or  that  of  our  fellows,  or  our  employees, 
as  the  modern  scientific  farmer  looks 
upon  his  soil,  as  a  field  for  investment, 
upon  which  is  to  be  spent  as  much 
capital  and  labour  as  will  yield  a  pro- 
fitable return." — Exchange, 


At  Home 


Bessie  and  Bertie  were  at  a  loss  for 
a  game  to  play. 

"Oh,  let's  play  being  *at  home*  and 
have  'a  day,'  "  suggested  Bessie. 

"  'A  day  ?'  "  queried  Bertie.  "What 
does    that    mean.'^" 

"Why,  don't  you  know?"  said  Bessie, 
wisely.  *  *  All  the  fashionable  people  have 
'days.'  God's  day  is  Sunday,  and 
mother's  is  Tuesday." 


TRANSFORMATION 

The  winter  world  is  drear,  love. 
The  snow-kissed  winds  are  chill; 

There's  no  bird  on  the  bou^h,  love, 
And  no  flower  on  the  hilf 

The  skies  are  bleak  and  grey,  love, 

The  river's  heart  is  dead; 
The  forest  ways  are  dim,  love, 

For  the  sun-lit  hours  have  sped. 

Ah,  but  the  fire's  within,  love, 
Though  the  roadway  frozen  lies; 

Upon  your  cheek  the  roses  bloom, 
And  violets  in  your  eyes. 

Your  laughter  is  the  birdsong,  love, 
That  greets  the  breaking  day; 

When  you  and  I  go  hand  in  hand, 
December's  changed  to  May. 

R.  R.  Grbbnwood 


TABLE  LAID  FOB  LUNCHEON.  SERVED  -FROM  THE  SIDE" 

Seasonable  Recipes 

By  Janet  M.  Hill 


IN  all  recipes  where  flour  is  used,  unless  otherwise  stated,  the  flour  is  measured  after 
sifting  once.  Where  flour  is  measured  by  cups,  the  cup  is  filled  with  a  spoon,  and  a 
level  cupful  is  meant  A  tablespoonful  or  teaspoonful  of  any  designated  material  is  a 
LEVKL  spoonful. 


Puree  of  Carrots 

SCRAPE  two  large  carrots,  wash 
and  dry,  then  cut  in  shoes  or 
shreds  the  outer  red  part  of 
the  carrots  and  discard  the  centers. 
Put  into  a  saucepan  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  a  pint  of  boihng 
water,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a 
dash  of  paprika;  cover  and  let  simmer 
very  gently  about  an  hour;  add  three 
cups  (well  pressed  down)  of  white 
bread,  soaked  in  cold  water  and  pressed 
dry  in  a  cloth,  and  two  quarts  of  chicken 
or  veal  broth,  let  simmer  an  hour, 
then  press  through  a  sieve;  return  to 
the  fire  to  become  hot  without  boiling; 
add   more   broth   if   needed,    also   salt 


and  pepper,  and  beat  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  in  little  bits.  Serve 
with  croutons. 

Chicken  Samboyon  (Soup) 

Remove  the  fat  from  strong  chicken 
broth,  and  put  a  quart  of  the  broth  in  a 
double-boiler  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  from  one-fourth  to  one-half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  pepper.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
eight  eggs;  dilute  with  a  little  cold  broth, 
mix  and  add  a  little  hot  broth;  mix 
again,  then  stir  into  the  hot  liquid; 
continue  to  stir  until  the  mixture 
thickens.  Serve  at  once  in  bouillon 
cups,  with  toasted  crackers.  This  may 
be  made  with  less  yolks.  It  is  most 
frequently  served  when  a  large  quantity 


450 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


of  nourishment  is  needed  in  a  con- 
centrated form  It  may  serve  as  the 
main  dish  at  luncheon,  but  would 
not  be  suitable  at  dinner  before  a 
meat  course. 


OVSTEBS.  LANSDALE 

Oysters,  Lansdale  {The  Caterer) 
Select  a  large  firm  mushroom,  peel 
and  trim,  leaving  the  stalk  intact. 
Cook  in  clarified  butter  with  the  stem 
up.  Put  fresh-opened  oysters  into  the 
same  butter  and  let  saut^  until  the 
edges  ciarl  on  one  side;  turn  and  saut6 
a  moment  on  the  other  side.  While 
the  mushroom  and  oysters  are  cook- 
ing, broil  a  thick  slice  of  tomato,  set 
the  tomato  on  an  egg  shirring  dish, 
sprinkle  it  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
drop  on  several  bits  of  butter.  Set 
the  mushroom,  stalk  upwards,  on  the 
tomato  and  dispose  the  oysters  on 
the  mushroom  around  the  stem.     Sea- 


son to  taste.  Cover  with  a  glass 
bell.  The  shirrer  and  bell  should  both 
'be  well  heated.     Serve  at  once. 

Finnan  Haddie,  Dinner  Style 

'  ■  Put  the  thick  half  of  a  finnan  haddie 
over  the  fire  in  cold  water  and  let 
heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point;  draw 
to  a  cooler  part  of  the  range  and  let 
stand  half  an  hour;  the  water  should 
not  boil  during  this  time.  Remove 
the  fish  from  the  water  and  take  out 
the  bone.  Set  the  fish  in  a  narrow 
earthen  dish  suitable  for  the  oven 
and  the  table.  While  the  fish  is  over 
the  fire,  make  ready  six  or  eight  potatoes 
of  the  same  size;  steam  or  boil  these, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  dry  off, 
then  set  them  in  the  dish  aroimd 
the  fish,  as  a  border;  pour  in  a  cup 
of  cream,  fleck  the  potatoes  with  paprika 
and  dot  the  fish  with  a  few  bits  of 
butter.  Place  the  dish  in  a  moderate 
oven.     Serve  in  five  or  six  minutes. 

Boiled  Fresh  Fish,  with  Oysters 
Have  a  fresh  fish  carefully  cleaned. 
Do  not  retain  head  or  tail.  Set  on 
a  fish  sheet  or  a  piece  of  buttered  tin 
in  a  receptacle  of  sufficient  length 
to  have  the  fish  lie  fiat;  pom-  in  a  pint, 
each,  of  lukewarm  broth  (white)  and 
water,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon;  cover  and  let 
heat  to  the  boiling  point;  let  boil  three 
minutes,    then   draw   to   a   cooler   part 


BOILED   FISH,  WITH  POTATO  BALLS 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES  451 

of  the  range  to  simmer  until  the  fish     fourths    an    inch    wide.  "Have    ready 

separates  easily  from  the  bones.     The     from  a  half  pint  to  a  pint  of  fresh 

time  will  depend  on  the  thickness  of     oysters,  heated    to    the  boiling    point 


OYSTER  OMELET 


the  fish.  When  done  slide  the  fish, 
nicely  drained,  from  the  tin  to  a  serv- 
ing dish,  remove  the  skin  from  the 
upper  side,  brush  over  the  flesh  with 
a  little  beef  extract  and  sprinkle  with 
fine-chopped  parsley  or  sifted  yolks 
of  hard-cooked  eggs.  Or,  use  both 
parsley  and  yolk  o£  egg,  alternately, 
putting  them  on  in  bands  across  the 
fish.     Have    the    bands    about    three- 


and  drained;  set  the  oysters  in  groups 
around  the  fish.  Make  a  sauce  of 
one-fourth  a  cup.  each,  of  butter  and 
flour,  half  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt 
and  paprika,  and  the  oyster  broth 
with  enough  of  the  liquid  in  which 
the  fish  was  cooked  to  make  one  pint 
in  all.  When  the  sauce  boils,  remove 
to  a  cooler  place  and  beat  in  three 
teaspoonfuls    of    butter,    creamed-   and 


-1  THE  "CHUCK-  FOB   POT  BOAST 


452  THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 

mixed  with  two  egg-yolks.  Pour  over  (no  oysters)  or  part  sauce  and  part 
the  oysters  around  the  fi^.  Serve  water  and  a  generous  one-fourth  a 
with  plain  boiled  potatoes.  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  pepper; 


CHICKEN  PILAU,    TURKISH  STYLE     (Sm  Pag*  460) 


Oyster  Omelet 

Pour  one-third  a  cup  of  cold  water 
over  half  a  pint  of  oysters,  and  examine 
them,  one  by  one,  to  remove  bits  of 
shell  if  present;  strain  the  water  through 
cheese  cloth,  heat  to  the  boiling  point, 
add  the  oysters  and  heat  the  whole 
to  the  boiling  point.  Drain  off  the 
liqtiid  and  keep  the  oysters  hot.  Melt 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  in  it 
cook  two  tablespoonfuls  and  a  half 
of  Sour,  and  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful, 
each,  of  salt  and  paprika;  stir  until 
boiling,  then  add  the  oyster  liquor 
with  cream  to  make  one  cup  in  all; 
add  the  oysters  and  set  over  hot  water. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  until  light, 
also  beat  the  whites  dry.  To  the  yolks 
add   four   tablespoonfuls   of    the   sauce 


mix  and  turn  over  the  whites;  fold 
the  two  mixtures  together.  Have  ready 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted  in 
a  hot  omelet  pan;  turn  the  pan  to 
butter  it  evenly,  then  pour  in  the 
egg-mixture;  let  stand  a  moment 
to  set  the  egg  on  the  bottom,  then 
move  to  the  oven  —  which  should  not 
be  very  hot.  When  a  knife  cut  down 
into  the  omelet  comes  out  without 
uncooked  egg  upon  it,  score  the  ome- 
let at  right  angles  to  the  handle  of 
the  pan;  set  a  few  oysters  with  sauce 
on  one  half,  fold  the  other  half  over 
and  turn  on  to  a  hot  dish;  pour  the 
rest  of  the  oysters  and  the  sauce  around 
the   omelet   and   serve   at   once. 

Deerfoot  Sausage,  Burbank  (The 
Caterer) 


VENISON.  WITH    SPROUTS  AND  CHESTNUT  PUH^E 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


Select  rather  large  potatoes  of  uni- 
form size ;  pare  and  with  an  apple  corer 
cut  an  opening  through  them,  length- 
wise of  the  potato.  With  a  fork. 
prick  as  many  small  Deerfoot  sausage 
as  there  are  potatoes;  pour  boiling 
water  over  them,  let  simmer  six  of 
eight  minutes,  then  drain  and  dis- 
pose them  in  the  potatoes,  one  in  each. 
Let  the  potatoes  bake  until  done. 
Serve  at  once,  with  strips  of  broiled 
bacon  and  fried  onions  as  a  luncheon 
dish. 

Pot  Roast  of  Beef 
Four  or  five  pounds  of  beef,  in  a 
thick  piece,  from  the  chuck,  the  vein 
or  the  round  should  be  selected  for 
this  dish.  Many  prefer  meat  from 
the  vein  or  round  as  it  is  sohd  flesh, 
but  a  piece  from  the  chuck,  as  fat 
alternates  with  lean  meat,  will  be 
quite  as  satisfactory.  Roll  the  meat 
on  three  sides  in  flour.  Have  ready 
some  hot  fat  in  a  frying  pan;  this 
may  be  fat  from  suet  marrow,  or  salt 
pork  or  the  top  of  a  saucepan  of  soup. 
Brown  the  meat  in  the  fat  on  one  side, 
then  turn  and  brown  the  other  sides, 
one  after  another.  An  onion  cut  in 
rings  may  be  cooked  in  the  fat  until 
yellowed  and  removed  before  the  meat 
is  set  to  brown.  When  the  meat  is 
well  browned,  set  it  into  an  iron  or 
some  other  heavy  saucepan;  add  about 
one  cup  of  boiling  water  and  let  cook 


CERMAINE  SALAD 


about  six  hours  at  a  gentle  simmer; 
add  boiling  water  as  needed  and  turn 
the  meat  occasionally.  When  the  meat 
is  tender,  remove  to  a  serving  dish 
and  thicken  the  liquid  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  smoothed  in  a  little 
cold  water.  Season  the  sauce  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Serve,  at  the  same 
time  potatoes  and  any  of  the  winter 
vegetables. 

Venison,  with  Sprouts  and  Chest- 
nut Puree 
Have  ready  some  rounds  of  venison 
about  an  inch  thick,  cut  from  the 
fillet  under  the  rump  and  broiled  as 
any  steak;  also  pipe  some  chest- 
nut purfe  on  a  serving  dish,  set  the 
venison  above  and  the  sprouts  at 
the  ends  of  the  dish.  Pour  Madeira 
sauce  with  slices  of  venison  or  beef 
marrow  over  the  meat,  or  serve  celery 
with  Madeira  sauce  and  marrow  at 
the  same  time. 


BRUSSELS  SPROUTS,  WITH  TOAST  POINTS 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Puree  of  Chestnuts 

Cut  a  half-inch  slit  in  one  side  of 
the  chestnut  shells;  let  cook  in  boil- 
ing water  two  minutes,  drain  and 
dry.  To  each  pint  of  nuts  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter  or  oil  and  stir 
and  shake  in  the  oven  three  or  four 
minutes;  then  inserting  the  point  of 
a  knife  in  the  slit  made  in  the  shell 
before  cooking,  remove  shell  and  skin 
together.  Keep  the  nuts  covered  while 
shelling  is  in  process  —  to  accelerate 
the  work.  Stew  the  shelled  and  blanched 
nuts  very  gently  in  consomm^  until 
tender.  Press  the  nuts  through  a  ricer 
or  sieve,  add  cream,  salt,  pepper  and 
butter,  beat  thoroughly,  over  the  fire, 
then  pipe,  as  above,  on    a    hot  plate. 


to  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  with  fine-chop- 
ped parsley  and  add  a  few  toast-points. 
Dip  the  pointed  edges  of  the  toast  in 
beaten  white  of  egg  and  then  in  fine- 
chopped  parsley.  Any  sprouts  left  over 
will  make  a  good  salad. 

Celery,  with  Beef  Marrow 
Allow  one  head  of  celery  for  each 
person  to  be  served ;  pare  the  root  neatly 
(that  celery  is  best  the  roots  of  which 
have  not  been  pierced  with  nails) ;  trim 
off  the  rough  green  stalks;  wash  in  sev- 
eral waters  to  remove  all  earth;  cut 
all  the  heads  to  the  same  length;  cover 
with  boiling  water,  and  let  boil  five 
minutes,  then  drain  and  let  dry  on  a 
cloth  a  few  minutes;  set  the  heads  into 
a  dish  where  they  will  lie  flat,  add  salt. 


SARDINE  SANDWICHES,  WITH   CANAI^ES 


Whole  cooked  chestnuts  are  often  served 
with  sprouts  in  place  of  the  pur^e. 

Brussels  Sprouts 
Free'  the  sprouts  of  imperfect  leaves, 
cover  with  cold  water  and  let  stand 
several  hours  to  become  crisp.  Drain 
and  set  to  cook  in  boiling  water,  slightly 
salted.  Cook  until  tender;  often  they 
will  cook  in  fifteen  minutes,  but  some- 
times considerably  more  time  is  required. 
Drain,  add  a  generous  piece  of  butter, 
a  dash  of  salt  and  paprika  and  shaka 
over  the  fire  until  the  butter  is  evenly 
mixed   through  the  sprouts.     Turn  on 


a  piece  of  green  or  red  pepper,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  white  broth  to 
cover;  let  simmer  about  one  hour  or 
until  tender.  For  six  heads  cut  four 
ounces  of  marrow  from  a  beef  bone 
(hind  shin)  in  half-inch  slices,  let  soak 
in  cold  water,  drain,  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  let  simmer  one  minute, 
drain  and  it  is  ready.  Pour  Madeira 
sauce  over  the  celery  and  set  the  marrow 
above. 

Madeira  Sauce 

Brown    four   tablespoonfuls    of  clar- 
fied  butter  or  olive  oil,  add  five  table- 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


CREAM  CHEESE  SANDWICHES.  \ 


1  CANAPtS 


Spoonfuls  of  flour  and  cook  till  frothy; 
then  add  one  cup  of  rich,  highly-flavored 
brown  stock  and  half  a  cup  of  tomato 
pure^  and  stir  until  boiling;  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  or  other 
appropriate  sauce,  a  dash  of  paprika 
and  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
wine;  let  boil  two  minutes. 

Sardine  or  Anchovy  Sandwiches 
Pound  the  flesh  of  the  fish  in  a  wood- 
en bowl  until  smoth;  if  convenient  add 
the  sifted  yolks  of  two  or  more  hard- 
cooked  eggs  and  again  pound  until 
smooth;  season  with  paprika,  salt  if 
needed,  and  press  through  a  sieve;  add 
chopped  pimientos  and  truffles.  Have 
ready  one-fourth  the  measure  of  rich 
cream;  beat  this  stiff  and  fold  into  the 
fish-mixture;  add  salt  and  pepper  as 
needed  and  use  as  a  sandwich  filling. 


Garnish  the  plate  of  sandwiches  with 
three  or  four  canapes  or  open  sand- 
wiches, For  these  toast  the  halves  of 
Boston  or  Hub  crackers ;  when  cold 
spread  with  the  fish-mixture,  rotmding 
it  slightly  to  a  dome  shape;  make  smooth 
with  a  silver  knife,  and  draw  the  knife 
through  the  center  of  the  surface  to 
make  a  design;  fill  this  with  chopped 
truffles  and  set  a  few  bits  ot  pimiento 
on    the    edge. 

Cream  Cheese  Sandwiches 
Mash  Neuchatel  or  Philadelphia 
cream  cheese  to  a  smoth  paste  and 
fold  into  it  enough  stiff-beaten  cream 
to  make  a  mixture  that  will  flow  easily 
through'a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  Spread 
noisette  bread  (entire-wheat  bread  made 
with  whole  filberts)  with  creamed  butter 
and  then  with  the  cheese,  set  one  or  two 


NEAPOLITAN  SALAD 


Menus  for  Card  Parties  and  Teas 


CARD  PARTIES 

I.     (3  courses) 

Oyster  Croquettes,  Sauce  Tartare 
Parker  House  Rolls 
Lettuce,  Grapefruit,  White  Grape-and-Cherry  Salad 
(French  dressing  with  lemon  juice} 
Toasted  Crackers 
Cheese  Balls 
Coffee 

II. 

Mexican  Rabbit  from  Chafing  Dish 
Olives  Celery 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream  in  Cups,  with  Caramel  Sauce  and  Chopped  Nuts 

Coffee 

III. 

Chicken  k  la  King  from  Chafing  Dish 
Shamrock  Rolls  Neapolitan  Salad 

Fruit  Cup 
( pineapple  sherbet  above  fresh  and  canned  fruit) 

Assorted  Cake 
Cocoa  Whipped  Cream 

IV. 

Cheese  Croquettes 

Fin  de  Siecle  Salad 

Graham  Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Coffee 
Grape  Juice  Punch 

(an  hour  after  luncheon) 

■ 

>f   ^   ^ 

TEAS 
I. 

Anchovy  Sandwiches 

(Anchovy  Canapes  as  decoration) 

Cream  Cheese  and  Bar-le  due  Sandwiches 

(Canapes  as  decoration) 

German  Crisps 

Macaroons 

Vanilla  Jumbles 

Small  Slices  Black  Fruit  Cake 

Tea 

Sliced  Candied  Cherries  and  Pineapple 

II. 

Neapolitan  Sandwiches 

Sauce  Tartare  Sandwiches 

Noisette  Bread -and- Marmalade  Sandwiches 

Lady  Finger-and-Whippcd  Cream  Sandwiches 

Orange  Turkish  Paste  Mint  Turkish  Paste 

Tea 
(orange  and  lemon  slices) 
Cocoa  with  Marshmallows 

458 


Balanced  Menus  for  One  Week  in  January 


Coffee 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 
Fruit-and-Nut  Rolls 


Cocoa 


> 
< 
Q 


< 
a 

o 


< 

Q 

< 

c/) 


Dinner 

Pot  Roast  of  Beef 

Plain  Boiled  Potatoes 

Brussels  Sprouts,  Buttered 

Squash 

Celery,  Pimiento-and-Green  Pepper  Salad 

Dried  Apricot  Souffle 

Whipped  Cream  and  Apricot  Sauce 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Sardine  Sandwiches 

Toasted  Muffins 

Canned  Fruit  Cookies 

Cocoa  with  Marshmallows 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream  • 

Broiled  Bacon 

White  Hashed  Potatoes 

Doughnuts  Grapefruit  Marmalade 

Coffee  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Fricass^  of  Fowl 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Celery  with  Marrow  (beef) 

Prunes  Stuffed  with  Nuts,  Whipped  Cream 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup 

Browned  Crackers 

Small  Graham  Cracker  Cakes 

Canned  Fruit 

Tea 


a 

a 
> 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  with  Hot  Dates,  Thin  Cream 
Sausaee  Creamed  Potatoes 

Buckwheat  Griddle  Cakes        Dry  Toast 
Coffee  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup 

Cottage  Pie  (pot  roast  of  beef) 

Cold  Brussels  Sprouts,  French  Dressing 

Buttered  Parsnips 

Dried  Apricot  or  Apple  Pie 

Cottage  Cheese 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Hot  Cornmeal  Muffins 
Stewed  Prunes 
Ginger  Cakes  Tea 


Breakfast 

Oranges 

Corned  Beef  Hash 

Pickled  Beets  (canned  beets) 

Cereal  Griddle  Cakes 

Coffee  Honey  Syrup  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Chicken-and-Tomato  Bouillon 

Breaded  Lamb  Chops,  Baked 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Brussels  Sproutb,  Buttered 

Cottage  Pudding  Baked  in  Muffin  Pan 

Creamy  Sauce        Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Chicken-and-Rice  Croquettes 
Canned  Peas,  with  Carrot  Shreds 

Yeast  Sally  Lunn 
Stewed  Apricots  (dried)  Tea 


H 

X 

c 

in 
D 
> 


Breal&fast 

Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Broiled  Salt  Mackerel 

Oysters  Fried  in  Batter 

Creamed  Potatoes 

Yeast  Rolls  (reheated) 

Fried  Mush 

Coffee                                 Cocoa 

Coffee           Graham  Bread            Cocoa 

Dinner 

Dinner 

> 
< 

Roast  Shoulder  of  Young  Pig 
Apples  Baked  in  Bean  rot 

Boiled  Fresh  Fish,  Oyster  5)auce 

•fl 

Boiled  Potatoes 

2 

Mashed  Turnips            Mashed  Potatoes 

Neapolitan  Salad 

5 

Cabbage  Salad  or  Sauer  Krout 

(pimiento,  green  pepp>er,  celery) 

> 

Poor  Man's  Rice  Pudding 

Cranberry  Pie 

< 

h 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Soi  Hoped  Tomatoes 

Supper 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Cheese  Custard  with  Pimientos 

Date-and- Walnut  Cake 

Whole  Wheat  Biscuit 

Cocoa                                 Tea 

Cookies        Hot  Apple  5>auce             Tea 

Breakfast 

Baltimore  Samp,  Maple  Syrup,  Cream 
Creamed  Corned  Beef 
(flavored  with  onion  and  celery) 
French  Fried  Potatoes  ^^ 


Dinner 

Tomato  Soup 

Hamburg  Steak 

Creamed  Turnips 


Supper 

Boston  Baked  Beans,  Tomato  Catsup 
Boston  Brown  Bread 
French  Bread        ^^ 
Cabbage  Salad       Hk 


Mashed  Potato 
French  Bread  Dates  Stuffed  with  Nuts  and  Fondant      Boiled  Rice 

Coffee  Cocoa  Half  Cups  Coffee  Stewed  Prunes 

459 


Tea 


.  ^L^s^Ejsgs^^fe^ 


Preparation  in  Detail  of  the  Meals  of  One  Day 

Family  of  Two  Adults  and  Two  Children 

By  Janet  M.  Hill 


MONDAY 

Breakfaat 

Sauaaze  Calces,  Pried  Bananas 

Baked  Potato  Cakes 

Cream  of  Wheat  Mush,  Fried 

Dry  Toast 

Cornmeal  Muffins 

Coffee  *  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Chicken  Pilau,  Turkish  Style 

Cranberry  Sauce 

.  Boiled  Onions,  Buttered      ' 

Squash  Pie 

Coffee 

Supper 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup 

Browned  Crackers 

Salad  of  Dried  Lima  Beans 

Graham  Bread  and  Butter 

Honey  Cookies 

Tea 

Many  of  the  dishes  for  the  meals 
to-day  (Monday)  are  prepared  from 
the  food  left  over  on  Sunday  (See 
November  issue).  We  will  suppose  that 
a  gas  stove  is  used  in  preparing  the 
meals.  When  coal  is  the  fuel,  imless 
the  stove  responds  very  quickly  to  the 
opening  of  drafts,  the  oven  will  heat 
very  slowly  and  muffins  can  not  be 
attempted  save  on  Sunday. 

First  of  all,  set  the  sauage  cakes  in  a 
frying  pan  with  boiling  water;  let  the 
water  simmer  gently  about  ten  minutes, 
—  then  drain  off  the  water  and  set  the 
sausage  into  the  oven.  Shape  the  left- 
over   mashed    potato    into    flat    round 


cakes 

On  Sunday  night,  sift  the  dry  in- 
gredients for  the  muffins  into  a  bowl, 
then,  as  far  as  possible,  collect  the 
utensils  and  other  ingredients  needed 
for  the  muffins,  setting  the  iron  muffin 
pan  into  the  oven,  that  it  may  be  hot 
when  the  mixture  is  ready.  Use  the 
recipe  given  for  Graham  Muflins,  on 
page,  314,  of  the  November  number  of 
the  magazine,  substituting  com  meal, 
yellow  or  white,  for  the  Graham  flour; 
or,  if  a  richer  muffin  is  wished,  take  the 
redpegivenon  page,  392,  of  the  December 
magazine.  When  the  muffin-mixture 
is  ready,  remove  the  pan  from  the  oven 
to  the  top  of  the  range,  rub  the  inside 
thoroughly  with  fat,  put  in  the  mix- 
ture and  quickly  set  into  the  oven. 
The  muffins  should  be  baked  in  from 
twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes.  At 
the  same  time  let  the  mashed  potato 
cakes,  set  on  a  buttered  pan,  with  a 
bit  of  butter  above,  bake  till  lightly 
colored. 

Cut  the  mush,  set  aside  on  Sunday 
in  an  empty  baking  powder  can,  into 
rather  thin  slices,  sift  a  little  flour  on 
a  plate  and  in  this  put  the  slices  of 
mush,  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the  , 
other;  turn  a  little  fat  from  the  sausage 
into  a  frying  pan,  put  in  the  mush  and 
let  fry  on  one  side,  then  turn  to  fry  the 
other   side.      Be   very    careful    not   to 


THREE  MEALS  A  DAY 


461 


overheat  the  fat.  It  is  only  by  giving 
thought  to  the  matter  that  one  acquires 
the  habit  of  using  a  frying  pan  hygien- 
ically.  If  smoke  fills  the  room,  discard 
the  mush,  or  the  sausage  or  whatever 
article  has  been  cooked  in  the  fat, 
occasioning  the  smoke;  for  it  were 
better  to  lose  that  part  of  the  break- 
fast than  to  run  the  risk  of  an  attack 
of  dyspepsia.  While  these  things  are 
cooking,  set  the  bread  to  toast  in  the 
lower  oven.  Only  one  cook  in  a 
hundred  makes  toast  properly,  yet 
half  of  those  ninety-nine  cooks  satisfy 
the  people  for  whom  the  toast  is  made, 
because  soft  dough  inside  and  a  thin 
shell  of  crispness  outside  is  what  is 
desired.  This,  however,  is  not  toast, 
properly  speaking.  Such  toast  may  do 
for  well  people,  if  they  chew  it  long 
enough,  but  is  not  to  be  given  to  children 
or  to  persons  of  weak  digestion. 

Toast,  supposedly,  is  made  for  people 
who  eat  too  much  starch  or  who  do  not 
easily  digest  the  starch  in  bread.  By 
a  process  of  long,  slow  cooking  this 
starch  is  changed  to  sweet  substances, 
then  the  final  browning  in  high  heat 
caramelizes,  as  it  were,  these  sweet 
substances  and  gives  a  sweet  tasting 
bit  of  predigested  food.  Such  pre- 
digested  food  is  valuable  for  one  ill 
or  convalescent,  when  the  digestive 
fltiids  in  the  mouth  do  not  flow  freely; 
we  will  all  recall  that  starchy  foods  are 
digested  in  the  mouth. 

Peel  the  bananas,  scrape  to  remove  all 
coarse  threads,  then  cut  in  halves  cross- 
wise, and  these  pieces  lengthwise.  Pat 
these  four  pieces  of  each  banana  in 
flour  and  set  to  cook  in  the  pan  from 
which  the  sausage  has  been  taken. 
As  soon  as  the  pieces  are  browned 
delicately  on  one  side,  turn  to  brown 
the  other  side.  Set  these  around  the 
sausage  in  the  serving  dish  and  serve 
both  with  the  mush.  Put  milk  for  the 
graham  bread  to  scald  in  a  double 
boiler. 

After  breakfast  has  been  cleared 
away,  set  a  cup  of  dried  Lima  beans  to 


soak  in  cold  water;  mix  the  Graham 
bread,  using  one  whole  yeast  cake; 
pick  the  meat  from  the  pieces  of  chicken, 
left  over,  cover  the  bones  with  cold 
water,  add  a  few  celery  leaves  and  stalks, 
an  onion,  cut  in  slices,  and  three  sprigs 
of  parsley  and  set  to  simmer  for  broth. 
Peel  the  onions  and  cover  them  with 
cold  water.  Pour  cold  water  (about 
a  quart)  over  half  a  cup  of  rice,  stir 
with  a  fork  while  bringing  the  water 
quickly  to  the  boiling  point,  let  boil 
two  noinutes,  drain  on  a  sieve,  potir  on 
cold  water,  and  when  again  drained, 
add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and 
stir  over  the  fire  until  the  rice  has 
taken  up  the  butter;  add  one  cup  and 
a  half  of  hot  chicken  broth  (left  over) 
and  half  a  cup  of  tomato  pur6e,  an 
onion  into  which  two  cloves  have  been 
pushed,  three  sprigs  of  parsley,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful.  of  paprika,  and  let  cook 
over  boiling  water,  until  the  rice  is 
tender.  Do  not  stir  but  keep  the 
grains  whole.  Pick  out  the  onion  and 
parsley.  While  the  rice  is  cooking,  set 
an  egg  over  the  fire  in  boiling  water, 
let  stand  over  the  fire  (without  boiling) 
ten  minutes,  then  reheat  the  water  to 
the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  one  minute; 
at  once  remove  the  egg  to  cold  water  to 
chill,  then  remove  the  shell  and  cut  the 
egg  in  slices  about  one-fourth  an  inch 
thick.  Butter  a  tin  mold  that  holds 
rather  less  than  a  quart  (about  three 
cups),  fit  a  paper  in  the  bottom  of  the 
mold  and  butter  it  thoroughly;  on  this 
set  the  slices  of  egg  in  regular  order  or 
pattern;  above  the  egg,  spread  a  layer 
of  the  rice,  then  a  layer  of  pieces  of 
chicken;  season  the  chicken  with  a  dash 
of  salt  and  pepper  and  continue  the 
layers,  until  all  are  used,  having  the 
last  layer  rice.  Press  the  mixture  into 
the  mold;  set  the  mold  on  many  folds 
of  paper  in  a  pan.  Twenty  minutes 
before  dinner  is  to  be  served,  pour 
boiling  water  aroimd  the  mold,  set  the 
whole  into  the  oven  and  let  cook  without 
boiling    the    water.      When    ready    to 


462 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


serve  pour  a  cup  of  tomato  sauce  around 
the  pilau,  unmolded  on  a  dish.  For 
the  tomato  sauce,  melt  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  and  one-fotirth  a 
teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  pepper 
and  let  cook  until  frothy;  then  add 
half  a  cup  of  tomato  purde  and  half  a 
cup  of  the  broth  made  from  the  bones, 
etc.;  stir  until  boiling.  If  fat  rises  to 
the  top  of  the  sauce,  remove  it  with 
tissue  or  blotting  paper.  If  the  rice  be 
properly  cooked,  the  pilau  will  un- 
mold  in  good  shape;  it  will  taste  just 
as  good,  if  the  shape  be  not  retained. 
The  first  thing  after  breakfast  is 
cleared  away,  prepare  the  squash  pie: 
for  the  fiUing  use  the  recipe  given^n 
November,  for  the  little  pumpkin  pies. 
Lightly  flour  the  board,  turn  the  paste 
(left  over)  with  a  knife  in  the  flour, 
then  knead  lightly  and  roll  into  a  round 
three-fourths  of  an  inch  larger,  on  all 
sides,  than  the  plate;  lay  the  paste 
even  on  the  plate,  then  fold  the  edge 
backward  just  to  meet  the  plate,  all 
around.  Flute  this  double  thickness 
of  paste  with  the  thumb  and  fore- 
finger and  press  each  fluting  down 
upon  the  edge  of  the  plate.  While 
fluting  the  pastry  lift  it,  here  and  there, 
where  needed,  to  let  out  the  air  below. 
Leave  no  large  bubble  of  air  between 
paste  and  plate.    Put  the  pie  into  a  hot 


oven  and  after  ten  minutes,  lower  the 
heat. 

Sherman  says  that,  * 'under  favorable 
conditions  the  growth  of  children  may 
be  such  as  to  call  for  a  conversion  of 
thirty  to  forty  per  cent  of  the  food 
protein   into    body   material   and   that 
through  the  whole  of  infancy  and  early 
childhood  it  is  wise  to  use  milk  as -the 
main  source  of  protein."    Also,  accord- 
ing to  Herter,  "many  cases  of  arrested 
development   in   infancy   may   be   due 
to  an  insufficient  assimiliation  of  cal- 
cium from   the  food.     This  deficiency 
in  the  amount  assimilated  may  be  due 
to  defective  digestion  or  to  a  diet  in- 
adequate in  calcium  content."     Taking 
into  consideration  the  foregoing  items, 
the  use  of  the  remnants  of  celery  — 
calcium  is  present  in  fair  proportion  in 
celery,    and   milk  is  especially  rich  in 
calcium — in  a    cream    of    celery    soup 
would  seem  the  part  of  wisdom.     Care 
should    be    exercised    in    washing    the 
celery, for  the  water  in  which  it  is  cooked 
as  well  as   the  sifted  pulp   should  be 
used  in  the  soup.     Stir  the  flour  to  be 
used  in  thickening  with  cold  milk,  then 
cook  twenty  minutes  in  the  rest  of  the 
milk,  heated    in    a    double    boiler;    an 
onion  may  be  scalded  in  the  milk  for 
additional  flavor.    Cook  the  Lima  beans 
at  a  gentle  simmer  that  the  shape  be 
retained. 


Enchantment 


A  scarlet  flash  in  the  purple  sky, 
Like  a  red  flamingo's  wing; 
And  a  thistledown  puff,  on  tne  pine's  rough  coat. 
Where  the  snow's  white  fingers  cling. 

A  diamond  dust  o'er  the  stubble  field 
And  the  stream  holds  a  mirror  clear, 

While  princelings  in  ermine  their  jewelled  swords 
sheathe 
As  into  its  crystal  they  peer. 


A  tang  of  frost  in  the  bracing  air. 
And  the  holly's  red  necklet  gleams 

While  winds  sweep  the  leaves  in  a  little  brown 
drift, 
O'er  the  bed  where  a  violet  dreams. 

An  amber  rift  in  the  sapphire  sky, 
And  the  golden  sun  flashes  through, 

While  deep  in  my  heart  blooms  a  red,  red  rose, 
That  I  cherish  there,  love,  for  you. 

Agnes  Lochkart  Hughes 


The  Big  Four 

By  Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson 


UNDER     the     sharp     proddings 
of  our  present  day  able  statis- 
ticians  the   American   popiilace 
is  rousing   from  its   Rip   Van   Winkle 
slumbers,    and   the   charges   hurled   at 
this  erstwhile  indifferent  body  are  indeed 
sufficient  to  make  one  **sit  up  and  take 
notice."     Far  and  near  rings  the  accu- 
sation of  race  deterioration,  backed  up 
by  proof  of  a  gradual  shrinkage  in  the 
height  of  our  adult  men,  accompanied 
by  a  corresponding  loss  of  weight.     No 
less    an    authority    than    the    United 
States  Census  Bureau  gives  the  black 
and  white  evidence  that,  while  we  have 
learned  to  cope  with  acute  maladies, 
our  chronic  maladies  are  on  the  increase. 
Our   death   rate   is   increasing   and,  to 
further  augment  the  seriousness  of  the 
situation,  our  birth  rate  is  decreasing, 
till  like  Great  Britain  we  are  fast  near- 
ing  the  point  where  our  population  will 
be  stationary.     All  of  which  gives  foim- 
dation  to  the  alarming  charge  recently 
made    by    a    professor    of    entomology 
in   the   University   of    California,    who 
points  out  a  strange  analogy  between 
the  human  race  and  bees,  claiming  that 
the  increasing  number  of  women,  who 
have  lost  both  the  instinct  and  capacity 
for  motherhood,  are  developing  a  neuter 
type  corresponding  to  the  worker-class 
of  bees  and  ants.     And  that  is  not  all. 
We  have  in  our  midst  a  crop  of  mental 
defectives,  Mr.  Statistician  again  com- 
ing to  the  front  with  figures  to  show 
that  they  now  constitute  one  per  cent 
of    our    total    population.     The    over- 
whelming result  of  which  is  that  our 
schools   are    becoming    filled    with    de- 
fective children,  digressing  from  normal, 
with   a   long   list   of   ailments,  varying 
from  flat  feet  to  adenoids.     In  short, 
they   would   have   us   believe   that   we 
are  on  the  way  to  utter  demoralization. 
But  we  are  not.     It  is  merely  the  dark- 


ness preceding  the  dawn,  and  the  usher 
ing  in  of  the  new  day  is  the  task  of  those 
special  messengers  of  light  that  I  feel 
warranted  in  characterizing  as  the  Big 
Four. 

First  and  foremost  of  these  is  the 
Doctor,  the  new  type  of  doctor,  weaned 
from  the  fallacy  of  overmuch  drugging 
so  completely  that  he  openly  forsakes 
the  ranks  of  curative  medicine  for  the 
steadily  growing  cause  of  preventive 
medical  science.  The  man  with  the 
welfare  of  humanity  so  near  at  heart 
that  he  frequently  turns  his  back  on 
palliative  remedies  to  tell  the  lay  public 
that  the  building  of  the  nation's  health 
lies  in  their  own  hands. 

Already  is  this  being  evinced  in  the 
wide-spread  growth  of  eugenics,  the 
increasing  number  of  "better  baby" 
shows,  and  the  opening  of  bureaus  for 
instruction  in  body-building. 

Stamping  its  hearty  approval  in 
this  matter.  Harvard  University  has 
lately  established  a  chair  of  preventive 
medicine  and  hygiene,  and  is  giving 
degrees  of   "doctor  of  public  health." 

And  this  year  the  Marshall  County 
Fair,  held  at  Marshalltown,  Iowa,  added 
a  imique  feature,  in  this  respect.  This 
fair  has  long  been  famed  as  one  of  the 
best  stock  fairs  in  the  country.  This 
last  season  they  established  a  Public 
Health  Division,  and,  just  as  this  organ- 
ization has  brought  its  live  stock  to 
the  highest  state  of  cultivation,  it 
hopes  to  educate  the  country  to  raise 
the  right  kind  of  people.  Every  day 
during  the  fair  there  were  lectures  by 
physicians,  giving  health  instruction  to 
the  people,  and  in  prominent  places 
were  exhibited  health  placards  and 
maxims  for  daily  living.  This  created 
so  much  enthusiasm  that  a  county 
conference  in  health  was  organized, 
with  delegates  consisting  of  every  health 


463 


466 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


informal  gathering  of  friends  and  neigh- 
bors is  often  more  enjoyable,  with  a 
simple  but  substantial  supper  served 
late,  not  only  because  sitting  up  to  the 
small  hours  makes  people  hungry,  but 
because  it  is  desirable  that  the  New 
Year  shall  come  in  while  the  guests  are 
at  table. 

As  the  time  of  waiting  before  supper 
sometimes  passes  rather  slowly,  it  is 
a  good  plan  to  provide  some  occupation 
beside  dancing  to  keep  people  interested. 
It  aflfords  amusement  to  supply  each 
person  with  a  pencil  and  paper,  and 
require  him  to  write  privately  a  New 
Year  resolution.  The  resolutions  are 
folded  separately  and  mixed  in  a  basket, 


from  which  everybody  present  draws 
one,  and  reads  it  aloud.  As  the  person 
who  draws  is  supposed  to  abide  by  the 
resolution  chance  allots  to  him,  the 
misfits  are  sometimes  very  funny. 

It  is  a  pretty  idea  to  present  each 
guest  with  a  Httle  souvenir  calendar, 
which  may  easily  be  made  at  home. 
Buy  a  sheet  of  red  mat-board,  not  too 
stiff,  for  ten  cents,  the  kind  that  is  used 
for  mounting  pictures,  and  cut  from  it 
bell  shapes,  like  the  illustration,  about 
four  inches  long.  The  pattern  should 
be  marked  on  the  wrong  side,  and 
carefully  cut  with  sharp  scissors.  On 
the  lower  part  of  each  bell  paste  a  tiny 
calendar,  and  put  the  date  in  large 
figures  above  it.  Through  the  top  of 
the  bell  tie  a  red  or  green  ribbon,  and 
you  will  have  a  souvenir  that  will 
remind  your  friends  for  a  year  of  the 
pleasant  evening  they  had  at  its  begin- 
ning. 

Old-fashioned  caraway  seed  New  Year 
cakes  should,  of  course,  be  among  the 
refreshments,  and  the  date  may  be  put 
on  them  with  red  frosting,  or  little 
candies  stuck  on  with  white  of  egg; 
or  if  the  cakes  are  baked  at  home,  it 
may  be  marked  with  a  line^of  caraway 
seed. 

If  there  is  no  striking  clock,  somebody 
should  be  appointed  to  keep  track  of 
the  time,  as  the  hoiu*  approaches,  and, 
at  midnight,  to  strike  twelve  times  on  a 
small   bell. 

When  there  are  more  than  half-a- 
dozen  or  so  persons  invited,  supper  is 
often  served  at  several  small  tables 
rather  than  one  large  one,  and,  when 
this  is  done,  it  is  customary  for  every- 
body to  rise,  when  the  New  Year  comes 
in,  and  pass  from  one  table  to  another, 
offering  congratulations  and  good  wishes. 


IDEAS   Lr 
ECONOAUB3 


Contribution B  t< 


this  depaitment  will  bo  gladly  received.     Accepted  itema  will  be 
paid  for  at  reaaonable  ratea. 


The  Guest  Who  "Wants  to  Help" 

SHE  comes  rustling  blithely  into 
the  kitchen  about  an  hour  before 
luncheon  in  silken,  bewitching  morning 
lingerie,  just  as  you  are  in  the  very 
midst  of  the  fray  —  flushed,  nervous 
and  over-burdened  with  the  hundred 
little  and  big  perplexities  known  only 
to  the  mistress  of  a  household  who  is 
"  doing  her  own  work." 

"  Now,  Cousin  Ellen,  do  let  me  help 
about  lunch— I'd  just  love  to!"  she 
gurgles,  affectionately.  "  You  mustn't 
make  company  of  me,  dear,  you  know. 
I  can  always  fit  right  in  anywhere,  and 
do  anything.    Just  try  me!  " 

You  thank  her  with  a  hypocritical 
warmth  —  a  languid  seventh  smile  of 
a  seventh  smile.  Perhaps  you  are 
performing  some  especially  delicate  cul- 
inary operation  —  dropping  oil  into  your 
mayonnaise,  or  thickening  the  cream 
for  timbale  or  ramekin,  or  straining 
a  croquette.. 

You  are  painfully  conscious  that  your 
hair  is  all  at  loose  ends,  your  face  tense 
and  perspiring,  and  that  no  detail  of 
your  faded,  most  ancient  wrapper  is 
being  lost  upon  your  cool,  fragrant, 
fatiltlessly-groomed  guest,  who  stands 
there  smiling  and  immaculate  —  every 
puff  of  her  hair  shining  and  symmetrical 
to  the  ninth  degree! 

From  your  inmost  heart  you  long  to 
exclaim  "  Get  out!  If  you  truly  want  to 
help,  leave  me  alone.  Go  back  to  the 
parlor  and  read,  or  play  the  piano,  or 


anything  else  —  only  let  me  do  my 
work  by  myself!  " 

But  the  charming  little  visitor  is 
already  scurrying  about  cheerily.  "  You 
can't  stop  me.  Cousin  Ellen!  I'm  going 
to  make  you  some  of  my  hot  biscuit  — 
I  have  the  grandest  recipe!  So  —  if 
you'll  just  bring  me  the  butter  and  lard 
and  roUing-pin — .There!  I've  found 
the  flour  myself  I  "  and  you  hear  her 
rummaging  about  in  the,  pantry,  peering 
into  pails  and  jars,  all  the  little  secrets 
of  your  entire  manage  exposed  to  her 
bright  and  curious  eyes.  How  you 
shrink  inwardly  at  thought  of  those 
unwashed  dishes,  hidden  away  back 
of  the  tins  on  the  cupboard  shelf!  At 
the  pantry  floor  unsecured,  and  baking 
bowls  lying  about  in  unaccustomed 
places  (because  of  unexpected  company) . 

"  My  dear,  did  you  know  your  onions 
are  simply  spoihng  here?  "  with  a 
gentle  forbearance  more  maddening  than 
frank  condemnation.  "  Now,  if  you 
arranged  these  things  systematically, 
as  I  do — ".  Or,  perhaps,  she  simply 
follows  you  about,  silently  observing 
every  process,  every  action,  tintil  you 
are  nearly  on  the  verge  of  hysteria. 

"  Why,  what  a  queer  idea.  Cousin 
Ellen!  Yoiu*  ways  are  all  so  different 
from  mine.  Now,  I'm  sure  it  wotild  be 
a  great  saving  of  your  time  and  strength, 
if  you'd  try  only  "  etc.,  etc.  Your  grim 
silence  gives  her  'an  opportunity  to 
continue,  sympathetically: 

"  Your  ^ver  needs  a  little  pohshing, 
dear.      Do   let   me   rub   it   over   a  bit 


468 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


tomorrow!  **     (You  know  that  she  will 

have  forgotten  all  about  it  by  tomorrow, 

but    will    not    fail    to    report    to    your 

relatives  that  **  poor  Cousin  Ellen  has 

to    let    some    things    go,  —  a    woman 

always    slackens    a    little    when    the 

children  come.     But   I  helped  her  all 

I  could.") 

And,  finally,  when  she  overturns  that 

fudge-sauce  upon  her  lacey  front-breadth 

and  with   sweet  resignation   asserts  it 

is  of  no  consequence,  you  are  miserably 

conscious    that    all    John's    folks    will 

promptly    learn    how    she    ruined    her 

lovely  new  lingerie  preparing  Itmcheon 

for  dear  Ellen;  (as  a  matter  of  fact,  dear 

Ellen    would    have    Itmched    off    the 

kitchen   table,  had   she  had  no   guests 

about!) 

If   you   are   a   sensible   woman   you 

will  say   frankly  to  this  polite  (?)    "I 

thank    you,    dear    girl,    but    you    will 

help  me  best  by  leaving  me  to  my  fate  — 

ir  is  impossible  for  me.  to  work  with 

anyone  about.     I  am  sure  you  want  to 

conform  with  the  rules  of  the  house  — 

there's  a  dear!     You'll  find  that  new 

novel  in  the  library — "  and  gently  and 

firmly  close  the  kitchen  door  upon  your 

officious  friend.     It  is  your  own  fault, 

and  you  deserve  your  own  humiliation, 

loss  of  temper  and  self-respect,  if  you 

permit  even  the  proverbial  inch  to  this 

especial  brand  of  guest  who  is  so  ready 

to  take  an  ell.  l.  s. 

*    *    * 

The  Salt  Cod  Dinner 

A  STANDBY  to  the  real  old  New 
Englander,  of  equal  popularity, 
but  much  less  widely  known  than  its 
sister,  the  boiled  dinner,  is  this  original 
Salt  Cod  meal. 

It  came  to  us  direct  from  a  Cape  Cod 
Yankee,  whose  family  had  practiced  it 
for  seven  good  generations,  at  least. 
Most  of  us  have  used  it  in  some  form 
or  other,  —  either  varying  the  ingred- 
ients or  the  manner  of  service.  The 
latter  is  decidedly  part  of  the  game. 

To  prepare  for  a  family  of  two,  one 


would  require  one-third  poimd  or  less 
of  salt  codfish,  four  medium-sized 
potatoes,  two  large  beets,  two  slices 
of  salt  pork,  about  two  inches  square 
and  one-half  an  inch  thick,  and  one  cup 
of  thin  cream  sauce.  Cut  the  fish  in 
pieces  about  two-inches  square,  let 
soak,  unless  very  fresh,  and  then  scald 
successively  in  three  waters.  Boil  the 
potatoes  till  mealy,  and  the  beets  till 
tender,  then  skin  and  slice.  Dice  the 
salt  pork  and  fry  slowly,  till  there  are 
nice,  little,  light-brown  cubes  with 
plenty  of  drippings.  Have  everything 
ready  at  the  same  instant  and  serve 
as  follows,  as  this  materially  affects 
the  taste  of  the  dinner. 

Our  true  salt  cod  devotee  will  first 
mash  the  potato  with  a  fork,  then  shred 
the  fish  and  mix  the  two.  Place  the 
sliced  beets  on  this;  dice,  and  mix  the 
three.  Then  distribute  the  pork  scraps 
and  drippings  well  over  the  top  and 
cover  all  with  a  generous  portion  of 
cream  sauce. 

This  makes  a  large  serving  and  one 
may  hesitate  to  commence,  but  will 
enjoy  to  the  last  mouthful.  It  is  most 
truly  a  **  dish  "  in  which  the  "  proof 
of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating." 

It  is  easy  enough  to  double  or  quad- 
ruple the  amounts  given  above,  for  the 
average  or  for  the  large  family.  It  is 
a  very  simple  meal  and  one  that  will 
''  stay-by "  on  the  winter  days.  In 
as  much  as  the  ingredients  for  two 
will  cost  but  from  twelve  to  twenty 
cents,  according  to  the  locality,  it  is 
an  inexpensive  meal  to  be  stire.     h.  r. 

*     *     * 

Tarragon 

MANY  Americans  are  afraid  of  new 
things,  or  imagine  them  costly. 
Tarragon  is  a  plant  easily  grown,  when 
once  a  root  is  secured  from  a  dealer; 
it  is  hardy  and  lives  on  year  after  year. 
The  leaves  are  fine  in  salads,  and  are 
used  for  flavoring  many  other  dishes 
just  as  parsley  is,  only  being  careful 
not  to  use  much  of  it.     The  Tarragon 


HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 


469 


vinegar,  made  by  infusing  the  leaves  in 
good  vinegar,  is  very  desirable  for 
salads,  and  many  other  dishes;  often 
a  few  drops  are  added  to  sauces  and 
made  dishes. 

Orange  Salad 

An  orange  salad  is  refreshing  and 
nice  for  the  winter  months.  Peel  and 
free  from  all  seeds  and  inner  skins 
some  nice  tart  oranges.  Grate  in  a 
little  of  the  rind,  if  liked,  for  a  game 
course.  Dress  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
sprinkle  with  a  little  "fresh  tarragon  and 
fine-chopped  chives,  or  shreds  of  fresh 
onion.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  one  orange 
over,  or  use  French  dressing. 

The  Glass  Shelf 

Glass  is  an  ideal  shelfing  for  a  kit- 
chen closet  as  it  can  be  kept  clean 
so  easily.  If  this  is  too  costly,  paint  the 
shelves  white  and  give  a  coat  of  enamel. 
This  is  easily  scrubbed  and  does  away 
with  the  necessity  of  papers. 


To  prevent  ciutains,  children's  cloth- 
ing, etc,  from  catching  fire,  add  one 
ounce  of  phosphate  of  amnomia  to  each 
gallon  of  starch  used.  Immerse  goods, 
wring  out  and  when  dry  they  will  be 
fire-proof.  This  treatment  is  not  in- 
jurious and  will  not  change  the  appear- 
ance of  white  doth.  The  same  result 
may  be  obtained  by  dissolving  two 
ounces  of  alum  in  a  small  quantity  of 
rinse  water.  j.  j.  o'c. 


New  Preparations  of  Fish  for  Sun- 
day Night  Supper  and  Lunch- 
eons, or  Hors  D'Oeuvres  for 
Fastidious  Spreads 

NOVEL  fish  prepartions  include  an- 
chovies put  up  in  glass,with  pickles 
and  onions.  Then  too,  there  are  shad 
roes  in  tin  cans.  To  provide  a  healthy, 
hungry  family  with  these  would  hardly 
be  advisable,  but  for  epicures  it  is 
another   matter.     All   kinds   of   things 


come  ready  now  for  quick  suppers, 
automobile  limcheons  and  the  like. 
The  canned  shad-roes  give  those  who 
think  they  never  have  their  share  of 
roe  at  the  family  table  a  chance  to  make 
up  for  the  loss.  And  the  canned  fish- 
balls  from  New  England,  four  or  five 
to  a  can,  are  a  welcome  article  to  the 
bachelor  maid  who  is  living  in  a  flat. 
Cod  fish,  creamed,  may  not  be  a  luxury, 
but  it  is  a  staple,  and  when  one  has 
partaken  too  freely  of  green  food  in 
summer,  or  the  digestion  is  upset,  this 
homely  dish  of  the  olden  time  will  often 
prove  remedial.  j.  d.  c. 

«     «     * 

ONE  of  my  pet  schemes   for  defy- 
ing moths  is  to  place  all  small  articles 
in  glass  fruit  jars  and  seal  up  tight. 

When  straining  fruit  juices  for  jelly, 
or  any  hot  liquid,  in  fact,  try  pinning 
the  jelly  bag  or  straining  cloth  to  the 
sides  of  the  dish  with  clothes  pins.  It 
will  stay  in  place  and  save  both  time 
and  patience  and,  perhaps,  a  burned 
finger. 


When  washing  very  much  soiled  cloth- 
ing, such  as  overalls,  childrens'  rompers, 
work  shirts,  etc.,  place  the  article  on  the 
wash  board  and  scrub  with  an  ordinary 
scrub  brush.  The  dirt  will  be  removed 
with  ease  and  less  injury  to  both  hands 
and   clothes  than  ordinarily,     i.  d.  s. 


No  Wonder 

Dr.  Lyman  Abott,  at  a  luncheon  at 
the  Colony  Club  in  New  York,  was 
good-humrnedly  arguing  the  suffrage 
question  with  a  prominent  suffraget. 

**Now,  doctor,"  said  the  suffraget, 
''there's  one  thing  you  must  admit.  A 
woman  doesn't  grow  warped  and  hide- 
bound so  quickly  as  a  man.  Her  mind 
keeps  younger,  fresher." 

**Well,  no  wonder,"  Dr,  Abbott  re- 
torted. **Look  how  often  she  changes 
it!" 


THIS  depattmeat  is  for  the  benefit  and  free  use  of  our  subacribera  Questiona  rebtins 
to  recipes,  and  those  pertaining  to  culinary  adcnce  and  domeatic  economica  in  general, 
will  be  cheerfully  answered  by  the  editor.  Communications  (or  this  department  must  reach  us  befon 
the  first  of  the  month  preceding  that  in  which  the  answers  are  expected  to  appear.  I  nlettfers  requesting 
answers  by  mail,  please  enclose  addressed  and  stamped  envelope.  For  menus  remit  $1.00.  AddreM 
queries  to  Janet  M.Hill,  Editor.  B«toi>  CosEma-SooiH.  M«iuiri,372  Boylston  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 


QUKBV  2105.  —  "Suggest  menus  for  luncheons 
(or  about  twenty  business  men.  Price  of 
luncheon  to  be  .50.  The  fifty  cents  is  not  to 
include  rent,  simply  the  food  and  the  services 
of  the  woman  preparing  it." 

Fifty  Cent  Luncheons 


Breaded  Lamb  Chops,  Baked 

Baked  Potatoes 

Macaroni,  Italian  Style 


Swiss  Soup 

\i.-al  Cutlets,  Pojarski 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange,  Cream  Sugar 


III. 

Tomato  Soup 

P'illets  of  Fish  baked  with  Bread  Dressing 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce 

Home  Made  Pickles 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Buttered  Onions 

Lemon  Pie 

Coffee 

IV. 

Creamed  Celery  on  Toast,  Poached  Egg 

Hot  Bakmg  Powder  Biscuit 

\'anilla  Ice  Cream,  Chocolate  Sauce 

Toasted  Crackers,  Cheese 

Small  Cups  Coffee 


Fish  or  Clam  Chowder 
ry  Home  Made  Pickles 

Crackers 

Apricot  Shortcake,  Whipped  Cream 
Coffee 


Small  Chicken  Pies 

Cranberrj'  Jelly 

Tapioca  Custard  Pudding,  Vanilla  Sauce 
Toasted  Crackers  Cheese 

Coffee 

VII. 

Potato  Salad 

Cold  Baked  Ham 

Hot  Muffins 

Home  Made  Mince  Pie 

Coffee 

vin. 

Chicken  Pilau,  Tomato  Saute 

Stewed  Dried  Lima  Beans 

White  and  Graham  Bread  and  Butter 

Apple  Dumplings,  Hard  and  Liquid  Sauces 

Coffee 

IX. 

Chicken  Gumbo  Soup 

Toasted  Rolls 

Squash  Pie 

Assorted  Nuts 

Coffee 


Ham  Timbales,  Tomato  Sauce 

Cornmeal  Muffins 

Graham  Bread 

Lett uce-and -Canned  Asparagus  Salad 

Chocolate  Eclairs 

Tea  or  Coffee 

XI. 

Hamburg  Roast 

Spaghetti,  Italian  Style 

Franconia  Potatoes 

Chinese  Celery 

Fruit  Cup 

(Macedoine  of  fruit,  sherbet  above) 

Toasted  Crackers  '  Cheese 

Coffee 


QUERIES  AND    ANSWERS 


471 


XII. 

Sausage  or  Bacon 
Mashed  Potatoes 

Celery 

Cornmeal  Muffins 

Baked  Apples,  Cream 

Cheese 

Coffee 

XIII.     (Feb.) 

Half  Grapefruit 

Oyster  Omelet 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Plum  Pudding 

Hard  and  Liquid  Sauces 

Coffee 

XIV. 

Chicken  Croquettes 

Peas  with  Carrots 

Whole  Wheat  Biscuit 

(baking  powder) 

Home  Made  Apple  Pie 

Cheese 

Coffee 

XV. 

Chicken  Gumbo  Soup 

Graham  Bread  and  Butter 

Celery-and-Apple  Salad 

Chocolate  Eclairs 

Coffee 


Query  2106. — "In  making  cake,  some  direc- 
tions say,  beating  the  mixture  after  the  flour 
is  added  makes  the  cake  tough;  other  directions 
say  beat  three  minutes  before  the  whites  are 
added;  which  directions  are  correct?" 

Mixing  Cake 

Before  buying  cook-books  that  are 
simply  a  compilation  of  recipes,  each 
individual  assajring  to  prepare  food 
for  others  to  eat,  should  own  a  cook- 
book giving  minute  directions  as  to 
methods  of  manipulating  food  materials 
and  the  reasons  thereof.  A  thought- 
ful study  of  such  a  book  would  put 
such  procedtires  as  the  mixing  of  cake 
before  one  in  a  manner  not  to  be  for- 
gotten and,  if  directions  were  followed, 
would  insure  uniformly  good  results. 
In  cake-making  we  recognize  two  dis- 
tinct kinds  of  cake.  These  cakes  are 
butter  cakes,  and  true  sponge  cakes. 
Butter  cakes  contain  shortening,  usually 
butter,  and  are  lightened,  in  part,  by 
soda  and^cream  of  tartar,  or  some  variety 
of  baking  powder.     True  sponge  cakes 


are  made  without  butter  and  are 
lightened  entirely  by  air,  beaten  into 
eggs,  and  the  expansion  of  this  air 
when  heated.  The  manner  of  mixing 
these  two  varieties  of  cake  are  entirely 
different.  In  the  above  query  the 
first  question  refers  to  mixing  sponge 
cake,  the  second  to  butter  cakes. 

Mixing  Butter  Cakes 

Cream  the  butter,  using  an  earthen 
bowl  and  a  wooden  spoon,  to  avoid 
discoloring  the  ingredients;  add  the 
sugar  gradually,  beating  constantly; 
add  yolks  of  eggs,  beaten  until  thick 
and  light-colored.  If  more  sugar  is 
to  be  used  than  can  be  creamed  easily 
with  the  butter,  add  it  to  the  yolks 
and  with  them  to  the  rest  of  the  sugar 
and  butter;  then  add  the  liquid,  fol- 
lowed by  the  flour  and  leavening  in- 
gredients sifted  together,  or  add  the 
liquid  and  flour,  alternately.  Then  beat 
in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  dry. 
At  last,  beat  the  mixture  thoroughly 
^  to  secure  a  fine  grained  cake. 

Mixing  Sponge  Cake 

As  the  lightness  of  sponge  cake 
depends  entirely  upon  the  air  incor- 
porated into  the  eggs,  of  which  it  is 
largely  composed,  and  the  expansion 
of  this  air  in  baking,  great  care  must 
be  taken,  first,  to  sectu"e  the  incorpora- 
tion of  air  in  the  mixttire,  and  then 
to  regulate  the  baking  so  as  to  retain 
the  same  —  i.e.,  never  stir  a  sponge 
cake  mixture;  let  the  heat  be  such 
that  the  enclosed  air  can  be  gradually 
heated,  and  the  cell-walls  fixed,  when 
the  air  becomes  fully  expanded.  Beat 
the  yolks  with  an  egg-beater  until 
very  light  and  thick;  add  the  sugar 
gradually,  beating  continuously,  then 
add  the  flavoring.  Beat  the  whites 
until  stiff  and  dry;  cut  and  fold  part 
of  the  whites  into  the  yolks  and  sugar, 
then  cut  and  fold  in  part  of  the  flour; 
now,  in  the  same  order,  the  remaining 
whites  and  flour.  If  preferred,  add 
the  whites,  then  the  flour  entire.     Bak 


472 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


in  an  tinbuttered  pan,  made  for  the 
purpose,  and  let  the  cake  stand  in 
the  inverted  pan  to  cool.  Thus  sus- 
pended, as  it  were,  from  the  floor 
of  the  pan,  the  cake  will  be  much  lighter, 
than  when  it  is  left  to  hold  up  its  own 
weight  while  cooling. 


Query  2107. — "In  recipes  for  Oatmeal  Cookies, 
what  kind  of  oatmeal  is  called  for,  Scotch  oat- 
meal or  rolled  oats?" 

Oatmeal  for  Cookies 

In  all  cookies,  quickly  made  and  baked 
rolled  oats  are  called  for.  Time  is  a 
consideration  when  Scotch  oatmeal  is 
employed. 


Query  2108. — "Recipe  for  fine-grained,  plain, 
Layer  Cake  to  be  used  with  Chocolate  Frosting. 
Wish  the  mixture  to  contain  more  yolks  than 
whites." 

Yellow  Layer  Cake 


}  a  cup  of  butter 
1  cup  of  sugar 
3  egg-yolks 
1  egg-white 


i  a  cup  of  milk 
1}  cups  of  fiour 
4  level  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder 


Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream;  gradually 
beat  in  the  sugar,  then  the  yolks  and 
white  of  Qgg,  beaten  together,  and, 
alternately,  the  milk  and  sifted  flour, 
sifted  again  with  the  baking  powder. 


Query  2 109.— "Recipe  for   Potato  Salad  to 
serve  30  people,  with  cold  meat. 

Potato  Salad  for  Thirty 


5  qts.  of  potato  cubes   J 
2  onions  < 

.10  bottle  of  stuffed 

olives 
.05  worth  of  parsley 
i  a  cup  of  piccalilli 
2  pickles,  mustard  pre- , 
ferred 


1}  tablespoonful  of  salt 
1  teaspoonf  ul  of  paprika 
}  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  black 

pepper 
li  cups  of  olive  oil 
4  a  cup  of  vinegar 


Cut  the  potatoes  in  cubes  when  cold. 
The  parsley,  loose  in  cup,  measured 
one  cup  of  leaves.  Chop  the  parsley, 
onions,  olives  and  pickles,  together,  in 
a  wooden  bowl;  chop  very  fine.  Add  all 
the  ingredients  to  the  potatoes  and 
mix  thoroughly. 


Hard-Cooked  Eggs  for  Salads,  etc. 

Take  a  granite  ware  saucepan  hold- 
ing rather  more  than  a  quart;  in  it 
heat  one  quart  of  water  to  the  boiling 
point  and  move  the  saucepan  to  a 
place  on  the  stove  where  the  water 
will  retain  its  heat  but  not  boil;  lower 
an  egg  into  it,  cover  close  and  let  stand 
eight  minutes;  bring  the  water  with 
the  egg  quickly  to  the  boiling  point 
and  let  boil  one  minute,  then  drain  and 
cover  with  cold  water.  Thus  cooked 
the  egg  will  retain  its  tenderness,  except 
just  beneath  the  shell;  it  will  shell 
easily,  leaving  a  smooth  surface,  and 
will  cut  in  better  slices  than  when 
the  outside  is  less  firm. 


Query  2111. — "Recipes  for  French  Chest- 
nuts, Brand  ied?" 

French  Chestnuts  Brandied' 

Prepare  the  chestnuts  by  the  recipe 
for  vanilla  chestnut  preserves,  given 
in  the  Seasonable  Recipes  for  this 
month,  except,  instead  of  filling  the  jar 
with  syrup,  leave  room  for  about  one- 
half  a  cup  of  French  brandy. 

Query  2112.— "Recipe  for  Clover  Leaf  Bis- 
cuit, sometimes  called    Shamrocks.'*? 

Clover  Leaf  Biscuit 

Use  the  recipe  for  *Tarker  House 
Rolls"  given  in  the  October,  1913, 
issue  of  this  magazine.  Shape  the  dough 
into  small  balls  a  generous  inch  in 
dianieter;  set  these  three,  each,  in 
round  muffin  pans  —  preferably  tin  — 
when  light  bake  about  twenty  minutes; 
brush  over  with  white  of  egg,  beaten 
and  strained,  and  return  to  the  oven  to 
cook  the  egg. 


Query  2110. — "How  Cook  Eggs    to    cut   in 
blices  for  use  in  salads  or  for  garnishing^." 


Query  2113.— "Recipes    for    Vienna    Bread, 
Tomato  Catsup  and  Braised  or  Baked  OxHeart"? 

Vienna  Bread 

2cupsof  scalded  milk       1   cake  of  compressed 
i  a  cup  of  butter  yeast 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt         }  a  cup  of  lukewarm 
1  tablespoonful  of  sugar      milk 

Flour  for  so{t  dough 

Add   the   butter,    sugar   and   salt   to 


ADVERTISENKMTS 

Breakfast  Ready 
in  Ten  Minutes 


Vou  can  save  a  surprisin?  amount  of  bother  and  trouble  tomorrow  b7 
serving-  Beordsley's  Shredded  Codfish  for  brealcfast 

You  can  have  this  delicious  fish  food  ready  for  the  table  in  less  time  that 
it  takes  to  make  coffee. 

It  is  ready  to  cook  the  instant  you  open  the  package. 

No  bones  to  pick  out — no  washing — no  soaking — no  boiling.  We  have 
done  all  that  for  you. 

And  please  tion't  think  that  there's  any  "fish-odor"  in  cooking.  Instead, 
there's  a  tempting,  savory  smell— a  smell  that  will  make  you  hungry. 


BEARDSLEI^S 


^ODFIS^ 


Sweet-Flavored  Fish 

Beaidsley's  Shredded  Codfish  doesn't 
taste  at  all  like  the  old-fashioned  dried 
codfish. 

And  it's  wrong  to  judge  it  by  any  other 


:   compare 


half  so  delighdul  in  flavor. 

For  we  use  only  the  choicest  6sh— the 
fattest  and  plumpest — the  finest  that  come 
out  Ol  the  deep. 

We  get  them  from   Northern  waters 


Fish    caught    elsewhere    < 
v4th  the  cod  we  use. 

Then  we  Cake  only  the  choicest  part  ol 
each  fish— the  sweetest,  most  delicately 
flavored  meat.  So  there's  no  atrongtaste 
whatever. 

Temptlns  Waye  To  Serve  It 

Beardslcy's  Shredded  Codfish  means 
pleasing  variety  in  meals. 

There  are  so  many  appf-'" 

prepare  •• ' ' ■' 


t  your  family  will  n 


THE  PACKAGE  Wrra  THE  RED  BAND 


Each  package  makes  a  full  meal.    And 

So  order  a  package  today.  And  please 
see  that  you  get  Beards  ley's— the  packaf^ 
with  the  red  band.  For  Beardsley's  is 
the  only  Shredded  Codfish.  Our  wonder- 
ful Shredding  Process  is  patented. 
Beardslcy's  is  the  kind  all  people  like. 

Free  Book  of  Recipes 

Your  pocer  will  give  you  a  free  book  of 
new  recipes  you'll  want  to  try.  Or  write 
US— we'll  send  you  the  book,  and  with  it 
a  generous  sample  ai  BeArdsley'e 
Shredded  Codflah. 

J.  W.  Beardsley's  Sons 

474-478  Greenwich  St.,  New  York 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  Substitutes 


474 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


the  scalded  milk.  Mix  the  yeast  with 
the  lukewarm  milk  (scalded  and  cooled), 
and  when  the  first  mixture  is  luke- 
warm,  stir  this  into  it,  with  flour  for  a 
soft  dough.  Knead  and  pound  the 
dough  about  fifteen  minutes,  then  set 
aside  in  an  earthen  bowl,  covered ,  tmtil 
the  mixture  is  doubled  in  bulk.  It  will 
take  between  three  and  foiu*  hours. 
Shape  into  two  long  narrow  loaves. 
When  light,  score  the  top  of  each  in 
two  or  three  places,  diagonally.  Bake 
about  three-foiuths  an  hour.  Brush 
over  with  white  of  egg,  beaten  and 
strained,  and  return  to  the  oven  to 
set  the  glaze. 

Tomato  Catsup 

Scald  half  a  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes 
and  remove  the  skins;  add  half  a  cup 
of  salt,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls,  each,  of  ground  mace  and 
celery  seed,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground 
cinnamon,  and  two  quarts  of  vinegar. 
Boil  slowly  until  reduced  one  half, 
then  pass  through  a  sieve,  reheat  and 
store  in  sealed  bottles,  or  in  tight-closed 
cans.  A  larger  quantity  of  spice  is 
desired  by  many. 

Tomato  Catsup 

(Canned  Tomatoes) 


}  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  cin- 
namon 

3  branches  of  parsley, 
chopped 

1  celery  stalk 

)  a  cup  of  vinegar 


1  can  of  tomatoes 

}a  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt 
an  onion,  grated 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
I    SL    teaspoonful     of 

ground  cloves 
i  a  teaspoonful  of  pap- 
rika 

Let  all  simmer  together  until  reduced 

to   about   one   pint;    press   through   a 

sieve,  reheat  and  store  in  a  can      A 

slice  from  a  clove  of  garlic  is  an  improve- 

•  ment  to  the  catsup. 

Braised  Ox  Heart 

Wash  the  heart  thoroughly,  freeing 
it  of  all  coagulated  blood  Mix  together 
a  cup  of  soft,  fine  bread  crumbs,  one- 
third  a  cup  of  fine-chopped,  fat,  salt 
pork,    one-fourth   a   teaspoonful,   each, 


of  powdered  thyme,  black  pepper  and 
salt,  also,  if  desired,  half  a  teaspoonful, 
each,  of  grated  onion  and  chopped 
parsley.  Use  this  mixture  to  fill  the 
openings  in  the  flesh.  Bind  a  strip 
of  cloth  around  it  in  two  directions,  to 
keep  in  the  stuffing,  and  fasten  secure. 
In  an  earthen  casserole,  sprinkle  a 
layer  of  chopped  onion,  carrot,  celery 
and  parsley;  on  this  set  the  meat, 
pour  on  a  little  hot  fat,  then  sprinkle 
with  more  vegetables;  cover  and  let 
cook  about  five  hoiu^  or  until  very 
tender.  Baste  each  twenty  minutes 
with  hot  fat.  Use  three  tablesx)oonfuls 
of  the  fat  in  the  casserole  with  three 
of  flour  and  a  cup  and  a  half  of  brown 
stock  in  making  a  sauce  to  serve  with 
the  dish. 


SUBRY  21 14.— "Recipes    for    Almond    Cake 
Pickled  Onions  (small  white).    Can  Pears 
be  pickled  in  the  same  manner  as  peaches"? 

Almond  Cake 


i  SL  cup  of  butter 

1  cup  of  sugar 
i  SL  cup  of  milk 

2  cups  of  flour 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
ing-powder 


1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
extract 

i  a  cup  of  blanched  al- 
monds 

Granulated  sugar 

The  whites  of  3  eggs 


Mix  in  the  usual  manner  and  spread 
in  two  layer-cake  pans.  Halve  the 
nuts  and  press  sidewise  into  the  top 
of  one  of  the  layers,  and  sprinkle  with 
granulated  sugar.  Bake  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Put  the  layers  together  with 
boiled  frosting,  to  which  one-third  cup 
of  chopped  almonds  has  been  added. 
For  the  frosting  boil  three-fourths  a 
cup  of  sugar  and  one-third  a  cup  of 
water  to  240°  F.  and  pour  on  the 
white  of  one  egg,  beaten  dry.  Finish 
in  the  usual  manner. 

Small  White  Onions,  Pickled 

Wash  the  onions  and  cover  them 
with  lukewarm  water;  when  quite  cool, 
take  off  the  skins  with  a  silver  knife. 
Rinse  in  cold  water,  then  drain  and  cover 
with  vinegar,  scalding  hot;  let  boil 
five  or  six  minutes  in  the  vinegar; 
skim  into  cans;  add  tarragon  leaves  and 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


In  Charlestown, 
Massachusetts 


r«  ttUMlf  >  iplcc  mill  tl 


t  baa  been  rrindlnf  ipicM 


, ,  — — «  toaupplr  rou. 

Contlnuoui  actliitr  throucb  *  period  of  CTcat  cIwdm 

..  — .^ .  ... :_-  ^ril  of  the  Inn  ud  tfie 

>rodiirtB  tbe  confldenee  of 


STICKNEY  &  POOR  SPICE  CO. 

184  SUte  Si.,  Boston 
TBE   NATIONAL 
MUSTARD  POT 


JJL 


±± 


Buy  advertised  Goods  — ^Jdo  not  accept  substitutes 


476 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


bits  of  horseradish;  pour  on  the  same 

or  a  fresh  supply  of  vinegar,  scalding 

'hot,  and  store  in  jars,  as  canned  food. 


Query  2115.— "Recipe  for  Scotch  Shortbread" 

Scotch  Shortbread 

(By  one  living  over  50  years  in  Scotland) 

There  are  only  3  ingredients  in 
Scotch  shortbread:  1  lb.  flour  (4  cups), 
one-half  pound  butter  (2  cups),  one- 
fourth  pound  sugar  (three-fourths  cup), 
no  milk,  eggs,  baking  powder  or  salt. 

Put  the  flour,  butter  and  sugar  on 
a  baking  board,  letting  the  board  rest 
against  the  wall,  to  keep  it  from  moving 
round  the  table.  Break  the  butter  in 
small  pieces  and  work  into  a  Itunp  by 
rubbing  along  the  board  with  your 
flat  hand  and  wrist.  Roll  the  lump 
into  a  sheet  three-fourths  of  an  inch 
thick,  cut  in  four  pieces  and  prick  all 
over  with  a  silver  fork.  Put  in  a 
hot  oven  for  5  minutes,  then  let  cool 
a  little  and  bake  25  minutes  longer. 
When  baked  it  should  be  of  a  very 
pale,  amber  tint. 

Query  2116. — "Recipes  for  'Mushroom  Con- 
somni^,'  Sweet  Potatoes,  Southern  Style,  and 
a  Three  Layer  Yellow  Cake  flavored  with 
lemon  and  with  icing. 

Mushroom  Consomm6 

Have  ready  five  cups  of  strong  broth, 
made  of  beef,  veal  or  chicken,  or  both, 
and  flavored  with  the  usual  soup  vege- 
tables, free  of  all  fat.  Add  half  a  cup 
of  dried  mushrooms,  soaked  for  an  hour 
or  more  in  cold  water  and  potmded 
smooth,  the  slightly  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs  and  the  crushed  shells  of  the 
same,  and  mix  all  together  thoroughly. 
Set  the  soup  over  a  slow  fire  and  stir 
constantly  while  heating  the  whole 
to  the  boiling  point;  let  simmer  ten 
minutes,  then  draw  to  a  cooler  place 
to  settle;  skim  and  strain  through  a 
napkin  wrung  out  of  boiling  water. 
Season  as  needed  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  serve  at  once. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Southern  Style 

Boil  a  cup  of  brown  or  maple  sugar 


and  half  a  cup  of  water  until  it  forms 
a  thread.  Have  ready  half  a  dozen 
sweet  potatoes,  baked  until  nearly 
tender;  peel  the  potatoes,  cut  in  halves, 
lengthwise,  and  dispose  these,  round  side 
down,  in  an  au  gratin  dish;  pour  on 
part  of  the  syrup,  set  a  few  bits  of  butter 
on  the  potatoes  and  sprinkle  lightly 
with  salt;  put  another  layer  of  potatoes 
in  the  dish,  poiu*  on  the  rest  of  the  syrup, 
add  butter  and  salt  and  let  bake  until 
slightly  browned.  Baste  with  the  syrup 
two  or  three  times  while  cooking.  Serve 
from  the  baking  dish. 

Three  Layer  Yellow  Cake 


i  a  cup  of  butter 
1  cup  of  sugar 
8  egg-yolks 


I    i  a  cup  of  milk 
{     1}  cups  of  flour 
i    4  teaspoonfuls  of  bak- 
I        ing  powder 
Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner.  For  the 
icing,  boil  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
sugar  and  one-half  a  cup  of  water  to 
238^  F.,  and  potu*  in  a  fine  stream  on 
the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  dry, 
beating  constantly  meanwhile.  Flavor 
with  vanilla  or  lemon  extract,  or  use 
one-half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and 
one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  ex- 
tract.   

Query  21 17.~"l8  it  still  customary  to  uae 
fingerbowls  at  a  company  dinner  and  how  are 
they  passed?" 

Use  of  Fingerbowls 

Fingerbowls  are  used  at  meals  of 
ceremony  and  often  at  the  family  table. 
They  are  passed,  one  to  each  individual, 
on  doily-covered  plates.  At  dinner  the 
doily  and  bowl  are  often  taken  from 
the  plate  and  set  upon  the  table  by 
each  individual,  and  the  plate  is  used 
for  cake  or  bonbons  passed  by  the  maid. 
At  breakfast  the  fingerbowls  are  usually 
removed  after  the  fruit  course. 


Query  2118. — "When  rolls  are  laid  in  a  nap- 
kin, are  they  on  the  table  when  the  guests  are 
seated?  If  so,  what  is  done  with  them  while 
the  soup  is  being  eaten?  Is  this  napkin  the  one 
to  be  used  on  the  lap?" 

Rolls  in  Napkin 

Rolls  in  the  napkins  are  set  in  place 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitute* 


478 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


when  the  table  is  laid;  after  being  seated, 
the  rolls  are  lightly  moved  to  the  table 
as  the  napkin  is  lifted,  this  napkin 
being  the  one  to  be  laid  in  the  lap. 
The  rolls  lie  on  the  table  cloth  during 
the  eating  of  the  soup. 

.  Query  2 119.—" When  are  olives  eaten?  If 
nuts  are  on  the  table  at  the  beginning  of  a  meal, 
when  are  they  eaten?  When  should  celery, 
olives  and  nuts  be  removed?" 

Place  of  Olives,  Celery  and  Nuts 

Olives  and  celery  are  usually  eaten 
with  the  soup.  They  sometimes  appear 
in  a  hors  d'oeuvre  dish  of  several  com- 
partments or  are  provided  with  other 
relishes  passed  before  soup.  When  no 
salad  is  served  with  roast  turkey  or 
chicken,  celery  is  often  passed  with 
this  course.  These  relishes  are  removed 
from  the  table  when  the  course  of  which 
they  form  a  part  —  whatever  that 
course  may  be  —  is  finished.  Salted 
nuts  belong  to  no  particular  course 
and  usually  remain  on  the  table  through- 
out the  dinner.  They  are  eaten  at 
any  time,  often  between  courses. 

Query  2120.— "For  a  four  or  five  course 
meal,  should  all  the  silver  be  set  in  place  when 
the  table  is  laid,  or  should  part  of  it  be  brought 
in  later,  as  needed?" 

Disposal  of  Silver  on  Dinner  Table 

By  a  comparison  of  the  tables,  set 
for  various  functions,  shown  in  this 
magazine  and  of  the  menus  accompany- 
ing them,  the  disposition  of  silver  in 
the  covers  advocated  by  this  magazine 
can  be  easily  seen.  For  instance,  in 
the  November  number,  the  frontispiece 
shows  a  table  laid  for  dinner;  on  the 
reverse  of  the  page  is  the  menu.  In 
each  "cover,"  at  the  right  is  spoon 
for  grapefruit  cocktail,  soup  spoon  and 
knife  for  turkey;  on  the  left  is  fork  for 
fish,  which  also  answers  for  the  salad 
served  with  the  fish,  fork  for  tiu^key, 
also  used  for  the  vegetables  served 
with  this  course,  and,  last,  the  smaller 
fork  for  the  game  and  cauliflower 
served  with  this  course.  Sometimes 
the  silver  for  the  dessert  course  is  set 


above  the  plate,  when  the  table  is  laid, 
but  it  is  in  the  way,  when  the  table  is 
freed  of  crumbs  (before  the  dessert  is 
served)  and  it  is  preferable  to  set  such 
silver  in  place  just  before  the  dessert 
is  served.  This,  however,  is  largely  a 
matter  of  individual  taste. 


Query  2121.— "How  are  euests  seated  at 
table  so  that  there  may  be  no  break  in  the  alter- 
nation of  ladies  and  gentlemen.?" 

Seating  Guests  at  Table 

The  host  with  lady  guest  of  honor  go 
into  the  dining-room  first;  the  lady  sits 
at  right  of  host;  others  follow,  each  lady 
being  seated  at  the  right  of  the  gentleman 
whom  she  accompanies;  the  hostess 
comes  in  last  with  the  gentleman  guest 
of  honor  who  sits  at  her  left;  by  this 
procedure  a  lady  is  at  the  right  of  each 
gentleman,  no  matter  now  many  guests 
there  are  at  table.  The  difficulty  re- 
ferred to  in  the  query  arose  from 
changing  the  order,  when  it  came  to 
the  hostess;  of  course  the  gentleman 
accompanying  her  sits  at  her  left, 
thus  bringing  her  to  his  right  hand. 


Bran  Cookies 


}  a  cup  of  sugar 
i  a  cup  of  molasses 
i  a  cup  of  milk 
i  a  cup  of  shortening 
1  egg,  beaten  light 


1  teaspoonf  ul  of  ginger 
1    teaspoonful   en   cin- 
namon 
i  a  teaspoonful  of  dove 
3  cups  of  bran 


5  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 

Sift  the  soda  and  spices  into  the  bran 
and  mix;  add  the  other  ingredients, 
and  drop  from  a  spoon  upon  a  buttered 
pan. 

REFRIOERATORS-ICE  BOXES 

and  all  places  where  meats  and  fcxids 

are  kept  should  be  regularly  disinfected 

and  purified  by  using 

Plattk  Chlorides. 

TbeOdarlessDiBiMijfbatanL 

Destroys  germs  and  foul  odors,  does  not 
permeate  the  food. 

Safe,  Efficieni  and  EconomictJ,   Sold  Evmrywken 

HENRY   B.    PLATT 
42  Cliff  Street,  New  York  City,  N.  Y. 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  arlvertiied  Goods  —  do  not  accept  Nibrtitutei 


Only  Manicured  Waiters 

Art  Demands  It  and  They  Don't  Mind  at  the  House's  Expense 


WHEN  Napoleon  whisked  the  con- 
somme away  from  under  one's 
nose  yesterday  at  lunch  time  one  star- 
tled glance  was  caught  by  a  thumb  nail 
that  shone.  One  gazed,  as  if  fascinated 
One  is  not  in  the  habit  of  admiring  the 
fingernails  of  waiters,  and  sometines, 
when  one  suddenly  beholds  them  and 
thinks  of  the  soup  that  one  has  just 
eaten,  one  shudders.  But  here  Napo- 
leon presented  a  set  of  nails,  as  was 
revealed  by  later  scrutiny,  that  looked 
as  beautifully  groomed  as  if  a  manicure 
had  just  bren  at  work  on  them.  In 
amazement  one  asked  for  Jules,  the 
maitre  d'hotel  of  the  Caf6  de  Paris. 
where  the  phenomenon  recorded  had 
been  observed. 


"It  is  not  only  Napoleon,  Monsieur. 
All  the  waiters  here  must  visit  the 
manicure,"  Jules  said.  "We  have  come 
to  the  conclusion  that  it  is  time  that 
everything  possible  must  be  done  to 
gratify  the  artistic  and  the  aesthetic 
sense  of  the  diner-out.  Therefore,  yes- 
terday we  installed  the  manicurist,  and 
issued  orders  that  each  waiter  should 
go  to  her  and  have  his  nails  attended  to 
at  the  expense  of  the  house. 

"Nobody  objected.  The  manicure  is 
an  attractive  young  lady,  and  whether 
it  was  the  idea  of  having  the  hand  held 
that  appealed  to  the  men,  or  the  pros- 
pect of  having  the  nails  put  in  perfect 
order  at  no  expense,  I  do  not  know.  But 
I  do  know  that  yesterday  twenty-five 
waiters  had  their  hands  fixed  up,  and 
to-day  the  manicurist  has  been  busy." 

It  was  natural  that  some  incredulity 
should  be  expressed.  Jules  looked 
pained,and  insisted  upon  leading  the  way 
to  an  upper  floor,  where,  sure  enough, 
in  one  of  the  rooms  a  waiter,  with 
an  embarrassed  look  on  his  face,  was 
holding  on  to  a  table  with  one  hand 
while  over  the  other  a  manicure  lady 
was  working  energetically. 

"Behold,  Monsieur,"  said  Jules.  One 
was  forced  to  believe  one's  eyes. 


Politeness  Killed  by  Etiquette 

AS  he  stood  watching  a  funeral 
pass  by,  an  old  genlteman  was 
polishing  his  glasses.  He  readjusted 
them  and  noticed  some  small  school- 
boys standing  caps  in  hand.  "Ah,"  he 
murmured  with  satisfaction,  "the  coun- 
try is  getting  more  polite;  they  never 
used  to  do  that  sort  of  thing!"  The 
old  gentleman  was  right;  politeness 
has  had  a  iillip  during  the  past  few 
years,  but  in  higher  circles  it  is  gov- 
erned by  etiquette  to  such  an  extent 


(uy  advextised  goods  —  do  not  accept  substitu 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


THIS  Uttle  roi 
the  white  d 
label,  is  know 
civilized  world,  and 
the  kitchens  and  on 
of  most  people  oJ 
taste. 

It   contains   pure 
pepper  which  is  now  generally  con- 
ceded to  be  far  superior  to  cayenne 
or  black  pepper  as  a  seasoning  agent 
and  a  stimulator  of  appetite. 

Ask  your  grocer  for  a  bottle  of 
Mcllhenny's  Tabasco  Sauce.  If  he 
does  not  have  it,  let  us  know  about 
it  and  we  will  see  that  you  are  supplied. 
We  will  also  send  you  Mrs. 
Sarah  Tyson  Rorer's  book  of  Tabasco 
Recipes  without  charge. 

Mcllhtnny  Company, 

Dept.  H-8    Drexel  Bldg., 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 


MclLHENNY'8 

TABASCO 
SAUCE 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  Bubstitues 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


that  in  many  instances  it  is  bad  form. 
For  instance,  at  a  dinner  party  you 
will  notice  that  a  polite  lady  will  acknow- 
ledge a  servant  passing  a  dish  with  a 
"thank  you."  This  is  very  nice,  but 
unfortunately  very  wrong,  as  etiquette 
rules  that  it  is  the  servant's  duty  and 
does  not  require  such  acknowledgment. 
On  the  other  hand,  if  he  (or  she)  passes 
you  something  by  request  then  the 
acknowledgment  is  not  out  of  place. 
When  served  with  vegetables  or  any- 
thing contained  in  a  dish  from  which 
you  have  to  help  yourself,  the  waiter 
is  supposed  to  hold  the  dish  steady. 
You  must  not  endeavour  to  steady  it 
with  one  hand,  but  struggle  through  as 
best  you  can.  You  must  not  attempt 
to  pass  up  plate  for  setxind  helpings; 
that  is  the  servant's  duty,  so  that  how- 
ever ungrateful  you  nay  feel  yourself 
to  be,  remember  that  socially  you  are 
not.  You  will  perhaps  think  yourself 
rude;  but  the  company  wUl  look  upon 
your  behaviour  as  id^.  That  is  the 
way  of  things  nowadays. 


How  to  Carve  a  Roast  Turkey 

HEN    carving     a     turkey     place 


w 


the  fork  firmly  through  the 
upper  part  of  the  breast-bone,  pass 
the  knife  first  around  the  leg  and  remove 
it,  then  the  wing,  first  oa  one  side  then 
on  the  other.  By  cutting  the  liga- 
ments the  joints  will  readily  open. 
When  these  have  been  displaced  cut 
the  breast  in  thin  slices,  using  the 
knife  flat  against  the  breast  and  cutting 
from  you;  then  slip  it  underneath  the 
wishbone;  lift,  press  it  backward,  and 
remove  it.  Turn  the  turkey  slightly 
so  that  you  may  cut  the  shoulder  blades 
from  the  underside  of  the  backbone 
without  removing  the  carving-fork. 
Then  cut  directly  through  the  ribs  up 
to  the  brestbone  joint,  and  turn  the 
turkey  first  one  side  and  then  the  other, 
separating  the  back  of  the  carcass  from 
the  breast.  Then,  for  the  first  time, 
remove  the  fork.  Divide  the  upper 
from  the  lower  part  of  the  back;  cut 
down    the    backbone,    and    divide    the 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substiti 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


The  New 


HEsryiH 


Can  be  "Made,  in  a  Jiffy" 

With  the  aid  of  fruit,  berries,  whipped 
cream,  etc.,  the  practical  housewife  can 
serve  Nesnah  in  an  endless  variety  of 
dainty  and  attractive  ftnins. 


You  simply  dissolve  it  In  mitk  or  cream, 
let  stand  a  few  moments,  and  you  have, 
ready  to  serve,  a  most  exquisite  dessert. 

It  is  the  one  lutr,  dsHoim  fnd-doMrl 
Not  to  be  confounded  with  gelatine  prep- 
arations. 

NtNE  FLAVORS 


FISTACBIO 
■ASPBBMIY 
HAPLB 
CASAHBL 


lOc 

At  AU 


a  Packagi 


Sample  wnt  free 
—  fuU-aize  package 
on  receipt  of  10 
Cents.  State  choice 
of  flavor. 

Frepmxod  by 

ThJiinkst  Folks' 


Buy  advertiMd  Goodi  — 


It  accept  Mbatitiitet 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


I.: 


lower  portion  of  the  back  into  two 
pieces.  Then  separate  the  second  joint 
from  the  leg  into  two,  and  it  is  ready 
for  serving.  Give  a  portion  o£  the 
dark  and  a  portion  of  the  white  meat, 
with  a  small  amount  of  the  stuffing,  to 
each  person.  Chicken,  capon,  and  wild 
turkey  are  all  carved  in  ^e  same  way. 
A  boned  turkey  or  boned  chicken — in 
fact,  any  boned  fowl,  is  simply  cut 
in  thin  slices,  beginning  at  the  neck 
first. 


He  Learned  How  it  Was  Done 

ELIHU  Root  tells  a  story  about 
himself  and  his  efforts  to  correct 
the  manners  of  his  oEBce  boy.  One 
morning  the  young  autocrat  came  into 
the  office,  and  tossing  his  cap  at  a  hook, 
exclaimed : 

"Say,  Mr.  Root,  there's  a  ball  game 
down  at  the  park  to-day,  and  I  want  to 
go  down." 

Now  the  great  lawyer  was  willing  that 
the  boy  should  go,  but  thought  he 
would  teach  him  a  little  in  good  man- 
ners. 

"James."  he  said,  "that  isn't  the 
way  to  ask  a  favor.  Now  you  sit  down 
in  my  chair  and  I'll  show  you  how  to 
do   it   properly." 

The  boy  took  the  office  chair,  and 
his  employer  picked  up  his  cap  and 
stepped  outside.  He  then  opened  the 
door  softly,  and,  holding  the  cap  in  his 
hand,  said: 

"Please,  sir,  there  is  a  ball  game  at 
the  park  to-day;  if  you  can  spare  me  I 
would  like  to  get  away  for  the  after- 
noon." 

In  a  flash  the  boy  resopnded: 

"Why,  certainly,  Jimmie;  and  here 
is  fifty  cents  to  pay  your  way  in." 


Mrs.  Jabber  (to  Mr.  Jabber):  "Are 
you  aware  that  you  talk  in  your  sleep?" 
Young  Jabber  (who  has  just  been 
silenced) :  "What  other  chance  does 
he  get?" — Scribner's  Magazine, 


Buy  advertiaed  Goods  —  do  not  accept  aubstiti 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  •ubctitute* 


THE  BOSTON'  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


These  will  be 

sent,  postpaid, 

for  25c 

Have  you  tried 
=   it  yet?    


ii  Nolure'i  knulDa*  coDCCoUatnl. 
con  n  one  of  the  axut  wboloome 
of  oitural  foodi  and  one  of  Nttun't  groteri  ti 


wboloome  ud   nounbiDg 


I    of    Imat  vuMty  «  yoaog  tod 


Qiutn  Caiuird  Feod  U  ibpmdi. 
The  Haaerot  Canneries   Con 

413  HmoD  Rwl,  Clndud.  OMo. 


Nothing  is  too  ^ood 
for  Atmore's  Mince 
Meat.  The  best  mate- 
rials only  are  used. 

Big  plump,  leedless   raisias,  apples, 
■oet,  spices,  mgsr — all  Uw  purest  and 

Oar  TI  yesn*  eiperieuce  id  com- 
luning'  the  materials  so  as  to  produce 
the  most  luscious  mince  pie,  has  given 

ATMORE'S 

MINCE    MEAT- 


uity  flavor. 

No  Bmitioata  of  Soda  or  other 
artificial  preaerratlTe  used.  Ask  foi 
Atmorm'm  Mince  Meat.  The  namu  Is 
jonr  pTotectian. 

ATMORE  &  SON 

Philadelphia 


Russian  Tea 

In  this  country,  we  are  apt  to  think 
that  we  need  only  put  a  slice  of  lemon 
into  our  tea  to  transform  it  into  Russian 
.  tea.  It  is  true  that  Russians  some- 
times take  tea  with  lemon,  but  the  real 
national  drink  is  taken  with  jam.  Your 
hostess  gracefully  makes  her  tea  in 
your  presence,  using  the  steaming  water 
from  the  samovar  to  keep  her  tea  con- 
tinually boiling  hot.  She  serves  the 
men  their  tea  in  crystal  tumblers,  the 
women  theirs  in  dainty  cups.  With 
the  tea  you  are  passed  different  kinds 
of  fruit  preserves,  so  that  you  can  choose 
a  favourite.  The  jams  are  eaten  from 
small  plates  of  some  pretty  deagn. 
The  Russians  generally  drop  the  jam 
right  into  their  tea. 

The  Russians  do  not  serve  the  tea 
with  their  meal,  but  after  it.  If  they 
can  conveniently  do  so,  they  let  a 
whole  hour  elapse  between  dinner  and 
tea.  The  table  is  transformed  before 
tea  is  served.  It  is  at  the  tea  table 
that  the  Russian  lady  displays  her  love 
for  daintiness.  Her  finest  linen,  her 
choicest  bits  of  silver,  porcelain  and 
crystal  are  reserved  for  the  tea  drinking. 
The  main  meal  sometimes  lacks  in  the 
serving  the  highly  developed  daintiness 
so  characteristic  of  the  homes  of  the 
well-bred  Americans,  but  at  her  tea- 
table  the  Russian  lady  is  a  perfect  artist. 

Besides  the  jams,  delicious  candies  and 
cakes  are  served  with  the  tea.  Candied 
cranberries  are  a  delicate  novelty  offered 
us  with  tea  by  a  gracious  Russian 
hostess.  And,  by  the  way,  to  be  fit 
for  this  preparation,  the  berries  have 
not  only  to  be  quite  ripe,  but  also 
slightly   frost-bitten. 

The  Russians  love  their  samovar. 
They  gather  about  it  as  we  do  about 
the  fireside,  with  almost  a  feeling  of 
reverence.  If  you  would  get  near  to 
the  hearts  of  the  Russians,  you  must 
sip  tea  with  them  about  their  glowing, 
puffing,  welcoming  and  inspiring  samo- 

The  Steward. 


Buy  adrertised  Goods —  do  not  accept  substitutei 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Some  Cocoas  are  cheap  by 
the  ccui  but  cost  more  by 
the  cup. 

BENSDORP'S 
_,^  quality  and 
strength  means  Q^  in  quan- 
tl^  and  is  true  economy 

STEPHEN  I-  bAT:^  CO.  f^M/wIt: 

A[w&yt 


Patent  Ironing  Board  Coyer 


Special  Featarea 


Nq  WrlBkln. 
No  TaclUBd. 
Doas  Nat  FlallBB. 
Palt    CcBlar    Wllh    Fi 


Uad  Da  tha  Haikat. 


wttt  aUs 


Ho^TwUiei 


1>  of  tha  board  n< 


It  the  hou 


and  thvimoothlL . 

•ncrelir  tcatcd  br  hanlnc  I 
tack  bolei  on  lh«  ohj  biwrd 


ran  left  rour  bUDket*  ap« 

in  be  anpoped  bj  harlnr  U 

ttvronah  another  tackini  proem 

~— ■  -■  "M^onrpatleooBbMi 

Nots  tha  hundred!  ol 

Ihecut.  Theyapeal 

trylDc  moment  thai 


nklesF  Hu 


miEII  H«IIUF«CTUIIIII6  CO.,  In.,   ELMIM,  «.  V. 


B 


S1.00  A  WEEK 


An  URtiSHat  OppertunHy 

'ard 
I  Rotary 


$29.75 

■Miuihna 

uMiiti  wa 

iJlMal 
ipbaUutHk- 

$2.00 

DOWN 

$1.00 


THIRTY  DAYS  FREE  TRIAL 

Send  two  dollara  wllh  referancen.  Free  DeliTtry. 
after  thirtr  dart  IrlaJ.  rou  do  not  want  a  Standan 
any  rgann  whate^ar.  we  will  —•■— ' 


F.  C.  HENDERSON  CO.,  IfSSSSSSSf 
480  WaiUagloB  St,    Bortoa,  MuncluMtts 


Buy  advertised  Goods — do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


btm  I 

Htan  ' 

SWEH  > 

man,  becaaM  CTcrr  iwer  of  It 
Bnda  it  qnlcUr  txati  and  mlie*  ill  llquldi  in  the  but  pot- 
•ibla  muuer.  Bntlrelr  different  from,  aod  far  auperior  to 
tnj  other  b«ter  or  mixer.  We  will  •end  tbe  qnirt  liia 
(or  onlr  nc  and  the  pint  iiM  for  Mc  br  piepiki  parcel 
poat  to  anr  sddreaa  and  ffnaraatee  lt>  aafe  azrlTaJ,  and  that 
it  will  pnve  abaolnteljr  utiifactoTy  In  eierr  reipvet. 

AGENTS  MAKE  BIG  MONEY 

•eUlDc  RaberlaUiiaia  as  ther  are  wanted  ai  aoon  aitMO. 


DORSEY  MFG.  COMPANY 

78  Broad  Street  BcmImi,  Maw. 


Better  bread  and  more  of  it— that 
is  a  good  modem  ideaL 

Fleischmann's  Yeast 


helps  it  to  come  true.    It 

ea«7  to  make  good  breacL   Our  new 

Recipe  Book  telU  how. 


The  Fleischmann  Company 

711  WuUaciM  SbMl  Knr  Tark  CM] 


The  Correct  Way  to  Pour  Tea 
Few  hostesses  seem  to  understand 
the  right  way  of  pouring  tea,  siin{^ 
as  it  appears.  As  a  rule,  the  guest 
of  honour  is  offered  the  first  cup,  which 
is  the  weakest,  and  the  children,  if 
served  at  all,  are  given  the  last  and 
strongest.  When  it  is  desirable  to  have 
all  the  cups  of  uniform  strength,  one 
should  pour  a  little  into  each,  and  begin 
over  again,  reversing  the  order. 


Revenge  of  a  Vegetarian 

A  party  of  vegetarians  paid  a  visit 
to  the  country,  and  after  a  few  hours' 
ramble  in  the  woods  and  fields  pro- 
posed to  finish  up  their  hitherto  pleasant 
outing  by  a  picnic  tea  party. 

After  getting  comfortably  seated  to 
the  spread  on  the  grass  they  were  slightly 
disturbed. 

A  bull  made  his  appearance  in  a  rather 
hasty  manner.spreading  confusion  amoi^ 
the  party,  each  trying  to  get  over 
the  stile  first. 

One  old  lady  ran,  panting,  behind, 
reaching  the  stile  only  just  in  time  to 
save  herself  by  scrambling  through  it 
and  falling  in  a  heap  on  the  other  side. 
On  regaining  her  feet  she  turned  to 
the  bull  and  breathlessly  exclaimed: 

"That's  your  gratitude,  is  it?  I 
haven't  eaten  a  bit  of  beef  for  the  last 
two  years;  but  I'll  make  up  for  it  now, 
you  ungrateful  creature!" 


Alcohol 


The  Public  Thinks :  It  is  only  heavy 
drinking  that  harms. 

Experiments  Show:  That  even  Moder- 
ate DritiTfitig  hurts  Health,  lessens 
Efficiency, 

The  Public  Thinks:  Alcohol  braces 
us  for  hard  work  and  against  fatigue. 

Experiment  Shows:  That  Alcohol  in 
no  way  increases  muscular  strength  or 
endiu^nce. 

Alcohol  lowers  viiality;  Alcohol  opens 
the  door  to  disease. 

Resolved,  at  the  International  Con- 
gress on  Tuberculosis,  1905,  to  combine 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  subttitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


LADD  MIXER 

A  (pecially  made  clou-,  GlaM  Um 
'  contaiiiiDg  Ladd  Beater,  home  me, 
which  is  removable  for  uie  outiide. 
Top  highly  nicklcd  and  poliihed. 
By  all  meaiu  ihe  bett  article  yet 
made.  We  wuTut  il  tavet  eggi. 
By  parcel  post  far  f  1.60 

Readj  for  •hipmant  Jmhuut-  I,  1914.    Inqiuiiaa  m 

UNITED    ROYALTIES    CORPORATION,   11330  Broadway,  New  York. 


"SATURN" 

CLOTHESLINE 

REEL 

A  mind  Stnl  Ball  — dun 
proof,  nickla  pitted  —  WU' 
mated  W  (t.  hvTy  Aidb|  W 
—  ilka  tTOcnt  cloiho^in. 
Um>  oul-doof  o[  in-dqot. 
HtDKi  ^Drwhere.  Two 
■pru^na  ringi.  Pon^vely  ibe 
Mt  mada  at  any  pcice.    By 


PRACTICAL  BINDERS  for 

BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


approprlatelr 

Dna^otcD  cop'iu'UfuUV— J . 
A*  then  U  publi'hed  Id  the  li 
picte  Index,  br  proenlnc  tbe  i 
~ij  of  Ihe  row '-'-  ' 


imberof  tilndei 


I  Ingreanirsl  and  ecni  buckran 
I.   Each  hold*  coDveoientlr  frol 


niiniber(Uay)or  esch'oluma  i 
uineala  a  Under  ons  will  have 
[  on  cooklnc  and  hoanhold  m 


O  Mir  praaan  t  aubacrlber  who  Miida  ai 
will  aeDd.  paatpald,  ai  preroinm  (■■  Iddc  aa  iner  luii,  od*  oi  uioi 
blnden.    Price  Kc„  postpaid.    Addreaa 

BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 
372  Beylslon  Street,  Bostoo,  Mass. 


A  Perfect  Knife  for  Grape  Fruit 

Hie  blade  of  this  kaife  la  made  from  the  flaeat  cutlery  ateel,  finely  tempered,  curred  jnat  to  tha 
riKht  angle  and  ground  to  a  very  keeo  edge,  will  remore  the  center,  cut  cleanly  and  quickly  kroond 
the  edge  and  dlride  the  fruit  into  st^raents  ready  for  eating. 

The  feature  or  the  bladi*  »  IheroDnd  end  irhlch  prerenti  cuttinc  throotti  the  oatei  ikln.     A  crape  frait  knifa 

ia  •necaadtr  aafrape  truit  arecrawtn(*orapldl|F  [npopularltr  u  ~  ' ■-'—•'-—'■' 

Far  Salt  In  all  Onltti. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Tbe  NsteoMl  TraiMiBg  School  ti  At  T*-f  Wmm>- 

CkriribB  AHKbdiM  olTen  *  (ndiuls  emne  trota  July  IS 


tracUf  a  new  boilding  with  modem  < 
■cbednlca,  etc..  addrSM 

SeCieTARUU  DEPARTHBNT 

*N  Lo^M  AnaHl  Hn  T«k  Or 


:a.  For  rata. 


Domestic  Science 

Ho  me -Study  Courses 
Food,    beftlth,    housekeeping,    clothing,    childr«a 
For  homemaken,  tochen  and  for 
well-paid  potitioill. 
"THE  PROFESSION  OF  HOMB-MAKING."  100 
|M«e  hwidbook.  FREE.    BuUeUiwi  "Pkb  Havd 
OooEiHO."   10  cents.     "Food    Valdb,"    10  ceoU. 
"  TvE  Ut^to-Date  Hold,"  IS  centt. 

W.  SCWOL  OF  IIOaE  ECOWtlCS,  its  1. 6Mt  SLCHKUI 


POEMS  and  SONGS  7^i^,ii,',Si 

W«  >l1lDSBpi»  Hula  toyonr  ttnn  pnMlii,  iilTRUta,  MPTTlltit 
OUCDALECO..  225  Duiditi  Bnildlni.  Wuhlii|ioii.  t>.  C. 


MAGIC  COVER 

llaCicCorer  (or  Putry  Baud  ind  Rtdlinf  Kn:  cbankal 
tra*ted  aod  hrdenlc:  recommendol  br  ludlnf  lekcben 
eaokJnc,    Br  mail.  «Dc. 

B.  F.  MACY 

FMNriF  •(  F.  A  WUIEI  A  N.,  im  MMt  tlhbn  tm  !•  In  tidi 
4IO  Boylaton  Street,  Boatoa.  HaM. 


the  fight  against  alcohol  with  the 
struggle  against  tuberculosis.  At  the 
Massachusetts  General  Hospital,  Bos- 
ton, the  use  of  alcohol  as  a  medciine 
declined  77  per  cent  in  eight  vears. 
Most  Modern  Hospitals  show  the  same 
tendency. 

Alcofeol  is  responsible  for  much  of  our 
insanity,  much  of  our  poverty,  much  of 
our  crime.  Our  prison  commissioners 
reported  that  95  per  cent  of  those  who 
went  to  prison  in  1911  had  intemperate 
habits. 

Yet  the  Public  Says:  We  need  the 
Revenue  from  Liquor. 

The  Public  Should  Know:  How  small 
is  the  revenue  conpared  with  the  cost 
of  carrying  the  Wreckage. 

Your  money  supports  the  wreckage. 
Your  will  alUnus  it. 

Your  indifference  endangers  the  nation. 
Commercialized  Vice  is  promoted  through 
Alcohol. 

Citizens,  Think! 

Arrayed  against  Alcohol  are  Economy, 

Science,  Efficiency,  Health,  Morality.— 

the  very  Assets  of  a  Nation,  the  Very 

Soul  of  a  People. 

Marjorie  is  fond  of  ice-cream.  She 
was  spending  the  day  with  her  aunt,  and 
begged  for  a  second  dish.  "I  am  afraid," 
said  her  aunt,  "that,  if  you  cat  any  more, 
it  will  make  you  sick,  and  then  you 
couldn't  come  to  visit  me."  "But 
auntie,"  said  Marjorie,  cheerfully,  "I 
could  come  just  as  soon  as  I  got  well  I" — 
Standard. 


Buy  advertiMd  Goad>  —  do  not  accept  Mibttitutea 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


stir  K»elhernntililH»l»«l,tbrM' 
oDC-bBtt  cupful  of  wblte  Tiatcu 
until  teBiwaturcreachMind^ui. 
,      buttered  platH  and  pull  with  tip*  of  _...-.-  — 
i     ■HOD  Mttaa  mixture  I*  CDOlena<l«h  to  bandl«.  A 

''      TbernuMiieter 

(01  TOD  1°  hrnTi  TBor  o^ndT  l»*n«M  ""JT  >_^j 


■ISS-'' 


«f  Mr  bHt  of  rimitt  a»lT  lasliMa 


The  Two  Essentiak 

OF  A  PERFECT  SILVER  CLEANER. 

Power  to  in^Nirt  the  highefl  degree  of  brilliancy 
Lnown  to  precious  metab — easily  and  quickly — 
and  absolute  (reedom  from  all  injucioiis  pr(q>ertiea. 
These  are  found  in 

ELECTRO 
SILICON 


A  New  Cook  Book  by  Mrs.  Hill 

The  American  Cook  Book 

By  MRS.  JANET  McKBNZIE  HILL 

e«Wr  Th  Bmiu  CwiMu-Sclwal  NuuiR« 


iliuatnted 


>  neti  by  matt,  fl.W 


THIS  bode  is  foi  everyday  lue.     For  the  most  part  the  recipes  are  simple 
and  concise,  and  just  such  as  will  be  of  asustance  io  preparing  the  reg- 
ular family  meals,  but  scattered  through  the  book  are  a  few  recipes  for 
choice  dishes  that  will  grace  £uiy  feasL     Each  recipe  has  been  tried  and  tried 
again,  and  is  absolutely  right.     The  directioDS  are  complete  and  easily  followed. 
Using  this  book  you  are  sure  of  success  every  time. 

W*  win  •cnrf^A*  Atnmriean  Cooh  Booh,  poatpmd  upon  rocmipt  of  $1.10, 
or  to  any  pro— at  aabacribmr  at  a  pramittm  for  aeading  two  (3)  nmi  tab- 
»criptioiu  ol  tl.OO  aaek. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


BfMton,  Mass. 


Buy  advertised  Goods—  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


NEW  and   REVISED 

Practical  Cooking  and  Serving 

by  JANET  McHC'NZIi:  HILL 

Kaa  been  revised  lately  and  many  ne-w  recipes   and  illustx'a- 
tiona  added,  and 

The  PRICE  REDUCED  TO  «1:£2  Net.  Pntigi  20e 

eo  tbat  everyone   may  no-w  secure  a  copy  of  the   most  com- 
plete and  serviceable  cooK  booK.  publisKecl. 


The  Mdpea  In  this  book  hare  been  tested  hj 
jeut  of  DM  at  the  author's  home  table,  and  l^ 
her  pnidl*  North  and  South,  But  and  Wot 

The  Compositlo'D  of  Foods  Is  glren  at  the 
head  of  chapters  in  wbldi  the  several  foods  ftre 
■pedficaUf  described. 


It  holds  Mdpes  for  both  iooqieaaiTe  mni 
elaborate  dishes. 

It  U  fully  and  finely  iUnstnted. 

He  diicctioUB  (or  patting  materials  toBolfaer 
are  explicit  and  reliable. 

The  "REASON  WHY"  thli^s  an  dona  is 
given. 

'Prsetica]  Cooking  snd  Scrrinc'  mnd  Und  It  iBraJn- 


The  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO.      BOSTON.  MASS.  I 


As  EVIDENCE  of  what  we  staled  b  oui  pcenow 
«dTCili*eoKnt  in  this  Magazine,  that  the 

SILVER-CLEAN  PAN 

il  now  a  necessity,  we  quote  {ma  an  article  in  Tbe 
Howekeeper  Magazine,  March  1912  issue,  ovei  ibe 
agnalme  of  Margaret  Soiin<lstiom,  Teache»  College, 
Cdumbia  University,  as  follows: 

"The  task  of  nlvcs  cleaning  need  not  appaQ  d>e 
housekeeper,  as  there  is,  for  instance,  now  on  the  muket 
a  SILVER-CLEAN  PAN  that,  at  it*  maker  »yi. 
"  makes  the  tamish  vanish  like  clouds  before  the  mommg 
tun."  In  using  this  all  ihat  one  hat  lo  do  is  to  place  the 
P.t.J«.ll,Ull.»JAai.U.liU  articles  lo  be  cleaned  (gold  or  tilver)  in  tbe  pan  b  a 

solution  of  warm  water,  baking  soda  and  ordinary  table  tall,  leaving  them  there  torn  one  to  five 
minutes.  All  that  it  then  required  is  to  rinse  the  silver  and  dry  it  with  a  clean  chamois  skin  or 
toll  cloth.  In  fact,  this  pan  does  away  with  all  the  dreaded  labor  of  cleaning  the  tilver.  Elabo- 
rate tilver,  such  as  toilet  articles,  may  be  cleaned  ia  the  tame  way  with  no  effort  whatsoever. 
Not  the  slightest  mjury  is  done  the  lilvet  and  it  will  have  a  luster  like  new." 

It  teems  uselen  for  us  to  say  more,  as  undoubtedly  most  of  the  tubiciibert  lo  tfaii  magazine 
ate  acquainted  with  Margaret  Soundiliom's  wrihngs  on  Domestic  Science,  and  further  know  sbe 
would  not  recommend  it  before  making  a  thorough  teit  and  research  as  to  its  merits. 

On  demoOBtratian  at  the  store  of  Jordan  Manfa  Co.,  Bou*»  Fumishinj  Department. 
Seoond  Floor.  New  Buildint.  Boston. 

THE  VANCE  SALES  CO.,       44  India  Street.      BOSTON.  MASS. 

Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


We  have  an 

attractive 

Proposition 

to  make  to  those  who 
will  take  subscriptions  (or 

THB  BOSTON 

eOOKIKG-SGHOOL 

MACazrNB 

Write  us  for  it  if  you 
wish  to  canvass  your 
town  or  if  you  wish  to 
secure  only  a  few 
names  among  your 
friends  and  acquaint- 
soices.  Start  the  work 
at  once  and  you  will  be 
surprised  how  easily 
you  can  earn  ten,  twen- 
ty or  fifty  dollars. 

Addre. 
SUBSCRIPTION  DEPARTMENT 

Boston 

eookini  •  School 

Magazine  Bo. 

BOSTON,    MASSACHUSETTS 


Gran'pa's 

Storiea. 

"Why,  Dol 

MjelLOiu'lhi 

«d«VS."     A 

«lELL-0 

"rheili^^/V 

JnSfS^H'™™" 

lOc  ~t',V.;S".',"o',",ESf,; "  ■"■  """■• 

Send  lor  Ike  bmnllfnl  nwv  recipe  btwlc  WlUi 
■pIcndM  plctnrca  In  colora.    It  !•  free. 

m  SENESEE  rURE  ¥990  CO..  URw,  N.V..  iBil  ■rM|elHr(.  Can. 


K"  RUBBERIZED  APRON 

Protecti  clolhiiw  [ull  IcTiEth.   Prica  TS  cwU,  i 

LA  VELTIWA  CO..  D»p«.  I,  Btrt  874.  Yonkm,  N.  Y. 


SEND  ua  two  NEW  yearly 
Subacr^thns  at  $1. 00  each  and 
We  Will  renew  your  own  sulh 
tcr^thn  one  year  free,  aa  pr^ 
mhim. 
THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL 
MAGAZINE  CO. 
B08T0V,  MA^CHDSETIS 


-  Buy  advertised  Goods—  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


PREMIUMS 


Experience  has  shown  that  the  most  satisfactory  way   to 

enlarge  the  subscription  list  of  The  Boston  Cooltine  School  Magazine  is  throngh  its 
present  subscribers,  who,  personallyj  can  vouch  for  the  value  of  the  publication. 
To  main  it  an  object  for  subscribers  to  secure  new  subscribers,  we  ofiEer  the  fol- 
lowing premiums: 

Premiuma  sre  not  Hvi , , ,  _ 

IT  lecuiing  aad  aaiKlinK  to  ua  natf  jewly  ■nb^ciip- 


tlona  at  $1X10  each.    The  numbw  of  new  aubacriptions  required  to  aecure  eacb  pnaniuia  la  cltmrij 
atated  balow  the  daacriptioD  of  tba  premium, 

TraDtportatioD  £■  or  ■■  not  paid  aa  atated. 
Omr  Pf— !■■»  ua  Haadard  lasd*.  Inil  nab  ■■  sra  Hid  at  tha  batlar  alara*.  ara  waU  worth  tha  »riaa. 
hava  dlT>a  aalrarial  wtlitaalliH. 


SOMETHING  NEW 


At  OTOtr  aodal  ftmcttoo  here  in  the  eaat  ti^ 
cakea  ate  MTTed,  iMtked  in  tin*  Uke  thoMi  >howB 
In  the  tllaatiatioD.  Hieae  Una  an  inpafbedi 
beaatiftilly  made  Aom  Tcry  beavy  ttn,  and  Bra 
Arat-cI>H,  A-No.  1  In  every  reipect. 

Here  ia  one  Good  Redpe  to  Try. 
POUND  CAKE  FOR  LITTLE  TIMS. 
><  cw  butter 
U  <r 


9  egg  To^ 

}i  tudeapoMilU  brand  j 


V  cup  floor 

}6  teaapoonftil  *— ^^-g 

powder  (tcml) 

y  teaapoonM  mace 

9  egg  white* 

Put  a  Uttle  of  tfae  mixture  to  theceatei  of  ewJi 

Uut  the  heat  oftheoren  will  cause  it  to  run  and 

fill  the  tins.    The  redpe  makea  about  Biztr  little 

cakea.     Spread  confectioDer's  iciog  on  Qie  top 

or  leare  plain. 

One  of  theae  tlni,  baking  19  little  caket  (atate  which  design  yon  widi).  (cnt,  portpaid.  tot  two 
(2)  new  Bubacripticou.     (Price  $1.25.) 


A  FIRST   CLASS  CHAFING 
DISH 

Full  liie,  three  pint  copper  diah,  nickel  plated, 
with  all  the  lateat  improTemeats.  inclading  handles 
on  the  bot  water  pan.  Cso  be  fnralahed  Copper 
Finlah  if  desired. 

Sent  for  seven  (T)  new  lubscriptioas. 


Or,  cash  price  SS.OO. 
Express  charges  to  be  paid  by 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE.  BOSTON.  HASS. 


Buy  advertiaed  Good*  —  do  not  accept  aubatitutn 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


PREMIUMS 


ALUMINUM  OMLGTPAN 

The  omlet  is  first  cooked  in  one  aide  of 
the  pui,  the  two  parts  of  the  pan  closed 
together,  the  pftD  tutned  orer,  and  the 
ondet,  then,  cooked  od  the  otfaei  side,  in 
the  iBCond  hart  of  the  pui.  A  very  liandj' 
device  foi  omleti. 


SCALLOPED  DECORATING  KNIVES 

Genuine,   French.  Irapotted,    Sabatler,  Trumpet  Brand.      For  cntting 
finted  potatoen,  vegetable*,  etc.,  etc. 

Sent  prepaid  for  one  (1)  new  »ubaeriptioo.     Cash  price.  60  cf .  prepaid. 


THREE  PINT 
MELON  MOULD 

For  Ice    cream,    bombei,    brown    bread, 
■teamed  puddlngi,  etc.,  etc 

Sent  prep^d  for  one  (I)  new  rabwription. 
Caib  price,  70  c«bU.  prepaid. 


KETTLE  SPOON   HOLDERS 

Thii  little  article  hooka  over  the  edge  nf  any  kettle  and  fumiabes  a 
resting  place  for  the  ctlrring  apooD.  Very  useful  when  preaervlng  or  mak- 
ing mince  meat,  etc.  Only  a  few  on  hand.  Aa  long  aa  they  last,  aent  pre- 
paid for  10  cts.  each. 


ORIGINAL  MEASURING  SPOONS 

Three  spoona  riveted  together,  and  swinging  on  the  rivet.     Tea  apoon. 


SELF-PULUNG 
CORK  SCREW 

Twisting  tbe  Cork  Screw 
puUa  tbe  cork. 

Sent  prepaid  for  one  (I) 
new  subscription.  Cash 
price,  40  cent*,  prepaid. 


PRINCESS  PATTY   TINS 


Brownies  or  Other  Small  Cakes 


%  cup  of  Butter 
>j  cup  of  Sugar 
}i  cup  of  MoTasseal 


p  of  Nuts,  Pecan  or 


A   SET   OF   24  TINS 


Mix  in  the  luual  manner  but  without  separating 
tbe  egg.  Bake  in  small,  fancy  shaped  tins.  Press 
half  a  nut  meat  into  the  top  of  each  cake. 


THE   BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE.  BOSTON.   MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


vhijCrS-^-'*^';^-'--":- 


-'.;--- ^.^--'Vv-'--- 


Ivory  Soap  three  times  a  day  for  washing  dishes  began 


Whenever  their  odd  pieces  of  fine  china  had  to  be  washed  they  naturally  turned  to 
Ivory  just  as  they  would  think  of  using  nothing  else  for  their  fine  linens,  laces,  etc. 

The  use  of  Ivory  Soap  for  this  exacting  work  proved  so  satisfactory — it  made 
the  dishes  so  scrupulously  clean  without  harming  their  delicate  decorations  and  it 
left  the  hands  so  soft  and  smooth — that  they  soon  began  to  use  it  for  the  general 
dish- washing. 

If  you  do  not  wash  your  dishes  with  Ivory  Soap  this  is  an  excellent  way  to  test  it  and 
find  out  for  yourself  that  its  use  is  a  real  economy.  Wash  some  of  your  better  china 
with  it;  its  all-around  superiority  due  to  its  purity,  mildness  and  freedom  from  alkali 
will  be  so  evident  that  you  will  be  glad  to  do  all  your  dish-washing  in  the  same  way. 


IVORY  SOAP  . 


99as6PURE 


Buy  advertised  Goodi  —  do  not  accept  subMitu 


6m  on 

tVERY  '  EVERY 

PtECE  ti  .    PIECE 


A  Table  Necessity 

for  everyday  use  in  the  year — it  is  a 


Ji^J-ft-    Ol.vt  Tri; 


iti-Punch  Bowl  &  Fooi  3?}-IO"  Chcoc  (r  Cruker  Plaic. 


Teco  MiDs  Battermilk  Prodwrb 


MADE  wrm 

MALTED  BUTTERMILK 


Bnckvrheid  ud  Griddle  Cakes 

Phrslclaiu  and  food  eiparti  ictt  B«mllr  <m  D' 
•dTocmtiacUieuHofBUTTERHILK  In  tbe  dulr  diet. 

Euh  fackace  of  Tecco  Griddle  Cakes  and  Buck- 
wheat Uiitore  crints<r»  In  dried  form  klitwnlqaao- 
tlty  of  MALTED  BUTTERMOX. 

To  nuke  Backwheat  Cakes  or  OrUdle  Catfa.  jut 
add  water  to  tbe  conteuta  of  tlie  psck*<e,  and  bake. 

USE  NO  MILK.        

FDt  SALE  n  ClOCKIS  CaggJUlT 
TlMEkc^OTgCMpur,  CMtlaad,!!.  T-.tlitnl—* 

SikI  Pfllal/tr  Baokitl 

SAWYER    CRYSTAL    BLUE    COMPANT 

Naw  EBslud  Aaanti 
SS  Broui  Slraet,  Boatoo.  Mmi. 


"CKoisa" 
Ceylon  Tea 


lib. 

Cmuhn 
60  Cfnts 

1-2  lb. 
Ciniitert 
3G  Centt 


Pore 

Rich 

Fragrant 


od  Cook*  Prixe  LieliiB 

^vei  thai  extra  touch— that 

big  fiflith — to  aoupi,  waaa, 

ds,  entreei.     Ltebig  b  die 

t    stock  in  die  woild,  dw 

w    1    iiaudieit,  the  mott  ecoooaucaL 

^S^y         It  U  a  powerful  digeitive.    lb 

'^         tonic  ioflueDceiDcreuei  dienirin- 

roentobtaioedfroin  oths  foods.  Ask  fcx 

UEBI6 


Packed  in  Parchment-lined 

One  pound  and  half-pound  Canisters 

We  invite  comparison  leith  other  J^am   of 
the  aame  or  higher  priea 

S.  S.  PIERCE  CO. 

BOSTON      -       -       -       _       BROOIU.1NE 


vose 


hftTe  been  « 


Jllihed  more  than  5D  TEUS.  IM 

LentaererTfaiDlJr  In  M>d<(tf»» 
_  .    lown  a  iToSB  piano.   Wiff'^ 

'liutniDientslneicbaDceaDddcllTertb  ~ 
■  n  roDT  Dome  tree  oteipeaM.  WrlterorCatalocne  Daodai 

VOSE  a  SONS  PIANO  CO..  168  BorlataaM^ 


PIANOSsi 


Bo«toni  Hasa« 


A  SIDE  LIGHT  ON  THE  HIGH  COST  OF  LlVlSti 

c 


OP 


An  Entirely  New  Cook  Book  by  Miss  Farmer     * 

A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 

Author  of  "The  Boston   Cooting  School  Cxik  Book,"  Etc. 
tFiik  Eithi  CflvU  FIbiii  tod  mtn  ikai,   Twt  HumdrtJ  Itbtaraiimi  h  Ha^-Trnt. 

Cloth,  $1.60,  net.       By  mail,  $1.75 

Sioce  its  original  publication,  Miss  Farmer's  "Boston  Cooking 
School  Cook  Book"  has,  in  new  editions,  incorporated  large  addi- 
tions, but  the  wealth  of  new  material — the  result  of  experiments 
in  the  author's  classrooms  and  embodied  in  recipes  which  have 
been  thoroughly  tested — has  grown  to  such  an  extent  that  it  has 
become  necessary  to  incorporate  it  in  a  separate  volume  which 
forms  an  almost  indispensable  companion  to  the  author's  invalu- 
able "Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book." 

The  "  New  Book  of  Cookery"  contains  more  than  eight  hun- 
dred recipes  upon  all  branches,  including  many  new  and  import- 
ant dishes  not  to  be  found  in  any  other  wort.  It  is  profusely 
illustrated. 

LITTLE,  BROWN  &  CO,  Publishers    -    BOSTON 


ADVERTTSEMENTS 


PeinllJ  b,  H.   T.  Btnlsn  hr  Cream  tl  Wheal  Ca.  Cspyrighl  1907  by  Cream  at  H'Aeai  C>. 

Buy  advertiaed  Good*— do  not  accept  aubatitutM 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING- 


SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Vol.  XVIII 


FEBRUARY.  1914 


No.  7 


CONTENTS  FOR  FEBRUARY 

PAOB 

MENUS  FOR  FESTIVITIES  IN  FEBRUARY    .......  605 

"A  REVERSION  TO  TYPE"   (Illustrated)  Charles  Vaughn  Boyd  507 

THE  DELETED  LINES Stokely  S.  Fisher  512 

THE  VALENTINE  DOLL Alix  Thorn  513 

ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN  HOMES    .     .    .   Annie  Mitchell  515 

THE  ABIDING Arthur  W.  Peach  518 

PLACING  THE  FAMILY  PRIDE    .       Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson  518 

THE  VALUE  OF  DIET  FADS    .  Jessamine  Chapman  Williams  620 

A  MODERN  VALENTINE N.  F.  Milbum  528 

A  SIDE  LIGHT  ON  THE  HIGH  COST  OF  LIVING 

Alice  M.  Chalmers  524 

EDITORIALS 526 

SEASONABLE   RECIPES  ( Illustrated  with  half-tone  engravings 

of  prepared  dishes) Janet  M.  Hill  629 

MENUS,  SIMPLE,  FOR  WEEK  IN  FEBRUARY 

>i      .»      i>  537 

MENUS,  BALANCED,  FOR  WEEK  IN  FEBRUARY 

»      >»      »  588 

PREPARATION  OF  THREE  MEALS  A  DAY 

FROST  FAIRIES "  E."r.  W.  641 

MAKING  THE  BOARDING-HOUSE  A  BUSINESS 

Anna  Green  642 

WHAT  A  EUROPEAN  TRIP  MAY  TEACH  .      Elsie  S.  Eells  545 

SAINT  VALENTINE Mrs.  A.  T.  Frost  646 

HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 547 

The  Poultry  of  Old  Neptune — New  Way  to  Cook   Eggs — New  Ideas 
for  St.  Valentine's  Day. 

QUERIES  AND  ANSWERS 550 

MISCELLANEOUS 562 


91.00  A  YEAR 


lOc  A  COPY 


Published  Ten  Times  a  Year 

Four  Years*   Sabacrlptlon*  $ 3.00 

Entered  at  Boston  post-office  as  second-class  matter.    Copyright*   10 14.  by 

THE     BOSTON     COOKING      SCHOOL     MAGAZINE     COMPANY 
372  BOYLSTON    STREET  BOSTON,  MASSACHUSETTS 


Please  Renew  on  Receipt  of  the  Colored  Blank  Enclosed  for  that  Purpose 

498 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


^  Pancakes ' 

and  no  unpleasant  "con- 
sequences" when  made  with 

Cottolene' 

Make  your  pancakes  as  you  al'ways  do, 
tablespooniul  of  Cottolene  (instead  of  bu1 
an  extra  pinch  of  salt — or  try  this: 


-PERFECT  PANCAKES- 


1  1-4  cups  flour;  1-3  teaapoon  Bait;  1  Mblespoon  •ag«n  1  cup  ■ 
3-4  teaspoon  soda;  1  egg.  81ft  flour,  salt  and  angar  togetheri 
soda  In  soar  milk  and  add  gradnall^  to  tfaa  flour,  beatiiig  snioo 
well  beaten  egg.  Bake  on  a  bot.  Iron  griddle,  allghtly  gre* 
Cottolene.     Let  the  cakes  spread  on  griddle  until  quite  thin. 


Cottolene  makes  all  foods  palatable  and  easily  > 
It  goes  much  farther  than  butter,  lard  or  ai 
s  mare  economical. 

about  Cottolene  in  our  e: 
HOME  HELPS,  written  by 
cookery  auttumties.      Drop  us 
YOUR  copy— it's  FREE. 


E^FAIRBANK^^I 


,„^i'-'iii<!:^|C.1l 


Buy  advcrt,Md  Goods  —  do  not  acc^t  nibstitiitca 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


BIG  OAK  FARM 
Food  Specialties  for  the  Winter  Hme 

(SvkrtwtuI  u  Oa  Oik  UhH) 
ScTBppla.  SaBMii*.  Ban.  Baoaa.  Lard.  Appla  Battar. 
Prepared  under  cltau  and  aanitaiT  eondiUoru  brfolkiirtw 
know  how,  1(  Dot  at  rour  deiler'i.  tba  Finn  vlll  lapplr 
voa  direct  br  ciiircai  or  Parcel  F«t  Wrlle  for  price  Uiit 
and  folder. 

Blif  Oak  Farm,  Downlniftowii.  Pa. 

(ESSONS  IN  COOKING  Sr^fas: 

A^iaa  lokm  ir  BwTKHMMir'MI  W.  Mh  H.,  CUHfs  Dl 


V^l 


SALAD  DRESSING 

A  salad  cfresstng  made  widwU 
good  dive  cmI  is  about  as  sattsf^LCtory 
as  an  omelette  made 
without  eggs. 

The  fine  imported  jfrrf/fw/- 
ing  Olive  Oil  dial  b«>  '"'° 
i  Yacht  Club  Sdad  Dresnns  It 
k  renowned  for  it!  pleung  bouquet 
K  and  in  unmalched  nudike  SavcK. 
I  WWtaAir/'raaAacatoaAniA 


B f    lMN.BIaTlutSt..Clikan.ln. 


INDEX  FOR  FEBRUARY 

A  Modem  Valentine 523 

A  Reverdon  to  Type 507 

A  Side  Light  on  High  Cost  o[  Living  524 

Editorials 526 

English  and  American  Homes  ....  515 

Frost  Fairies 541 

Home  Ideaf  and  Economies     ....  547 

Maldng  the  Boarding-House  a  BuaiiiesG  .  542 

Menus 505-537-53* 

Placing  the  Family  Prida 518 

Saint  Valentine 546 

The  Abiding 518 

The  Deleted  Lines 512 

The  Valentine  Doll 513 

The  Value  of  Diet  Fads 520 

What  a  European  Trip  May  Teach    .  545 

Season ABLK  Recipes: 

Cakes,  Five  O'clock  Cream,  111.      .      .  536 

Consommi  Celeetine 529 

Dessert,  Pineapple,  III 535 

Duchesaea  i  la«eine 529 

Ham.  Baked  with  Cider,  111 531 

Ham.  Mousselinei  la  Florentine.  III..      .  332 

Pan  Cakes,  French  for  Coiuommi  530 

Parfait,  Coffee.  Ill 535 

Patties,  Adelaide 534 

Sal^.  Spinach.  Ill 534 

Sauce.  Demi-Glace 532 

SaufB^,  Ham  a  la  Milanaise,  with  To- 
mato Sauce 532 

Spinach  for  Ham 532 

Succotash.  Plymouth.     .....  530 

Soup,  Chicken  Gumbo 530 

Tenderloin  Hearts,  with  Spaghetti,  111.  533 

Tenderloin  Hearts.  Minced  en  Casaeiole  533 

QuBKiBS  AND  Answgks: 

Buns.  Flora  Dora 558 

Cake.  Black.  Fruit S54 

Cakes.  Plain.  Comroeal.  Buckwheat 

Griddle 550 

Cheese,  Potted 551 

Cocktail.  Grapefruit         554 

Crabmeat,  Cooldng  of 552 

Croquettes,  Crabmeat 552 

Goulash.  Hungarian         550 

Heart,  Stuffed  with  Dresnng  55) 

Lentils.  Value  as  Food,  with  Recipes  .  552 

Mayonnaise,  with  Hgga 556 

Menu.  Supper  for  Nurses      ....  551 

Rabbit,  Baked  with  Milk     ....  556 

Rabbit,  k  la  Marengo 556 

Rabbit.  Hasenpteffer  Style   ....  556 

Relish,  Pepper  and  Onion     ....  550 

Sandwiches.  Chicken 558 

Suggestions  for  Teas  and  Parties  558 

Timbales,  Crabmeat 552 

Tripe,  Baked,  Spanish  Style      ...  552 

Tripe,  Broiled  with  Bacon    ....  552 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


*< 


Easy  Helps  for  Mistress  and  Maid 


Mn.  Rorer*8 
Home  Candy  Making 

Contains  Rules  for  Candy-Making,  Color- 
ings, Flavorings,  Cream  Confections,  Mixed 
Confections,  Fresh  Fruits  with  Cream  Jackets, 
Nuts  and  Fruits  Giac^,  Nougat,  Caramels, 
Sugar  Drops,  Taffy,  Molasses  Candies,  Mint 
Tablets,  Fudge,  Chocolate  Tablets,  Salt  Water 
Taffy,  Sea  Foam,  Peanut  Brittle,  etc.  ' 

Goth,  SO  eenit;  by  mail,  SS  cent* 


Mrs.  Rorer's 
How  to  Use  a  Chafing  Dish 

In  this  book  there  is  a  talk  on  the  Chafing 
Dish  and  How  to  Use  It ;  then  follows  a  num- 
ber of  Menus;  then  recipes  for  1  he  preparation 
of  Appetisers,  Soups,  Fish,  Oysters,  Lobster, 
Crabs,  Terrapin,  Eggs,  Cheese,  Tripe,  Poultry, 
Game,  Meats,  Vegetables. 

Cloth,  SO  cents;  by  tnaU,  SS  centa 


Mrs.  Rorer's  Dainties 

This  book  gives  a  wonderful  lot  of  recipes, 
not  only  for  desserts,  but  for  all  purposes  and 
occasions.  There  are  Appetisers,  Canapes, 
VegeUble  CockUils,  Fruit  Cocktoils,  Fruit 
Punches,  Delicious  Cakes,  Simple  Candies, 
Creamed  Fruits,  Dainties  to  take  the  place  of 
Cakes,  Desserts,  Frozen  Puddings,  Ice  Cream 
Sauces,  etc. 

Cloth,  7S  centt;  by  mail,  80  cents 


Mrs.  Rorer's 
Every  Day  Menu  Book 

This  book  contains  menus  for  365  days  in 
the  year,  or  a  menu  for  every  meal  in  the  year, 
arranged  by  months  and  days,  and  designed 
to  give  an  excellent  variety  to  the  daily  fare, 
helpful,  time-saving,  economical  and  inviting: 
pictures  of  decorated  tables  with  menus,  etc. 

Cloth,  $1.S0:  by  mail,  SL6S 


Mrs.  Rorer's 
Cakes,  Icings  and  Fillings 

Contains  a  large  number  of  enticing  and 
valuable  recipes  for  cakes  of  all  sorts  and  con- 
ditions. Some  need  filling,  some  need  icing — 
well,  here  you  have  all  the  necessary  inror- 
mation.  Best  of  all,  there  is  no  fear  as  to 
results.  Follow  the  directions  and  your  cake 
is  bound  to  come  out  right. 

Cloth,  SO  cente;  by  mail,  SS  cent* 


Mrs.  Rorer's 
Ice  Creams,  Ices  and  Puddings 

Philadelphia  Ice  Creams  are  noted  for  their 
wonderful  quality,  smoothness,  and  richness. 
Here  thev  are  together  with  Neapolitan  Ice 
Creams,  Water  Ices,  Frozen  PucUlings,  and 
Fruits,  Sherberts,  Sorbets,  Sauces,  Refresh- 
ments for  Social  Affairs  and  Church  Suppers. 

Cloth,  7S  cente;  by  meal,  80  centa 


Mrs.  Rorer^s  Sandwiches 

In  this  book  Mrs.  Rorer  gives  a  remarkable 
number  of  new,  original  recipes,  and  some  odd 
ones.  She  has  drawn  upon  her  wonderful 
knowledge  and  inventive  facultv,  and  the 
result  is  a  bewildering  array  of  toothsome 
sandwiches.  A  handy  book  to  have  at  hand 
for  emergencies. 

Cloth,  SO  cents;  by  mail,  SS  cents 


Mrs.  Rorer's 
Many  Ways  for  Eggs 

To  many,  boiled,  fried,  poached,  and 
scrambled  form  the  limit  of  knowledge  about 
eggs.  Get  this  book  and  you  *ll  be  surprised 
at  the  feast  in  store  for  you.  A  new  cooking 
world  is  opened  up.  Just  to  read  the  recipes 
fills  one  with  longing.  There  is  also  a  chapter 
on  Sauces. 

Cloth,  SO  cents;  by  mail  SS  cents 


Of  all  bookstores  or  department  stores^  or  of  us 

ARNOLD  &  COMPANY,  420  Sansom  Street,  Philadelphia 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

601 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  presents  the  following  as  a  list  of  repre- 
sentative works  on  household  economics.    Any  of  the  books  will  be  sent  postpaid  upon 
receipt  of  price. 
With   an   order  amounting  to  $5  or   more   we   include   a   year's  subscription  to  THE 
BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  (price  $1). 

Special  rates  made  to  schools,  clubs  and  persons  wishing  a  number  of  books.  Write  for 
quotation  on  the  list  of  books  you  wish.  We  carry  a  very  large  stock  of  these  books.  One  order 
to  us  saves  effort  and  express  charges. 


A-B-Z  of  Our  Own  Nutrition.  Horace 

Fletcher     1.00 

American  Cook  Book.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Hill  LIO 
American  Salad  Book.  M.  DeLoup...  LOO 
Around  the  World  Cook  Book.  BarroU  L50 
Art  of  Entertaining.  Madame  Mesri  LOO 
Art    of    Home    Candy-Making    (with 

thermometer,  dipping  wire,  etc.)  3.00 

Art  of  Right  Living.     Richards 50 

Baby,  The.    A  book  for  mothers  and 

nurses.  D.  R.  Brown,  M.  D.. . . : 1.00 

Bacteria,    Yeasts    and    Molds    in    the 

Home.    H.  W.   Conn    1.00 

Blue  Grass  Cook  Book.  Minnie  C.  Fox  2.00 
Book  o^  Entrees.  Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill  1.50 
Book  of  Grood  Manners.  Kingsland...  1.50 
Boston  Cook  Book.  Mary  J.  Lincoln  2.00 
Boston   Cooking   School   Cook  Book. 

Fannie   M.   Farmer    2.00 

Boston    School    Kitchen    Text    Book. 

Mary  J.  Lincoln  1.00 

Bread  and  Bread-making.  Mrs.  Rorer  .50 
Bright  Ideas  for  Entertaining.  Linscott  .50 
Brussels  Charts  (Two.)    Showing  cuts 

of  Beef,  Lz  mb  and  Veal  2.00 

Cakes,  Icings  and  Fillings.  Mrs.  Rorer  .50 
Cakes,  Cake  Decorations  and  Desserts. 

King    1.00 

Candy  Making  Revolutionized.     Mary 

Elizabeth  Hall 75 

Canning  and  Preserving.  Mrs.  Rorer  .75 
Care  and  Feeding  of  Children.     L.  £. 

Care  of  a  Child  in  Health.    N.  Oppen- 

heim    1.25 

Care  of  a  House.    T.  M.  Clark 1.50 

Carving  and  Serving.  Mary  J.  Lincoln  .60 
Century  Cook  Book.  Mary  Roland..  2.00 
Chemistry  in  Daily  Life.  Lessar-Cohn  1.75 
Chemistry    of    Cookery.    W.    Mattieu 

Williams    1.50 

Chemistry    of   Cooking   and   Cleaning 

Richards  and  Elliott  1.00 

Chemistry    of    Food    and    Nutrition. 

Sherman    1.50 

Clean  Milk.    S.  D.  Belcher 1.00 

Cleaning  and  Renovating.  E.  G.  Osman  .75 
Color,   Harmony    and    Contrast.     Jas. 

Wood   4.20 

Complete     Home,     The.      Clara     E. 

Laughlin    1.25 

Cook  Book  for  Nurses.  Sarah  C.  Hill  .75 
Cooking  for  Two.  Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill  1.50 
Cost  of  Cleanness.     Richards   1.00 


Cost  of  Food.    Richards  1.00 

Cost  of  Living.    Richards 1.00 

Cost  of  Shelter.     Richards  1.00 

Dainties.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 

Desserts — One  Hundred  Recipes.     By 

Filippini     30 

Dietetic  Value  of  Bread.    John  Good- 
fellow   1.50 

Dictionary  of  Cookery.    Cassell 2.50 

Domestic      Science      in      Elementary 

Schools.     Wilson   1.00 

Domestic  Service.    Lucy  M.  Salmon..  2.00 

Dust  and  Its  Dangers.    Pniden 75 

Economics  of  Modem  Cookery.  M.  M. 

Mallock 1.00 

Elements  of  the  Theory  and  Practice 

of  Cookery.    Williams  and  Fisher. ..   1.00 
Equipment    for    Teaching     Domestic 

Science.     Kinne   .80 

Etiquette      of      New     York     Today. 

Learned    1-35 

Etiquette  of  Today.     Ordway 50 

European  and  American  Cuisine.    Mrs. 

Lemcke    2.00 

Euthenics.     Richards   1.00 

Every  Day  Menu  Book.    Mrs.  Rorer..   1.50 
Expert  Waitress.    A.  F.  Springsteed . .   I.OO 

Family  Food,  O'Donnell  1.00 

First  Lessons  in  Pood  and  Diet JO 

Fish — One  Hundred  Recipes  for  Cook* 

ing  Fish.    Filippini J5 

First  Principles  of  Nursing.    Anne  R. 

Manning    1.00 

Food  and  Cookery  for  the  Sick  and 

Convalescent.  Fannie  M.  Farmer.. ..  1.60 
Food  and  Dietaries.     R.    W.    Burnett 

M.  D 1.50 

Food      and      Feeding.        Sir      Henry 

Thompson     1.35 

Food  ft  Flavor.     Finck 2.00 

Food  and  Its  Function.    James  Knight  1.00 
Food  and  the  Principles  of  Dietetics. 

Hutchinson     3.00 

Food  for  the  Invalid  and  the  Convales- 
cent.    Gibbs   75 

Food  in  Health  and    Disease.     I.    B. 

Yeo,  M.  D iSO 

Food   Materials   and   Their   Adultera- 
tions.    Richards    1.00 

Food  Products  of  the  World.    Mary  E. 

Green   . .  - 1.50 

Franco-American  Cookery  Book.     De- 

liee '3.50 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  mbstitutet 

502 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


French  Household  Cookins.  Keyser . .  .60 
Fuels  of  the  Household.  Marian  White  .75 
Golden  Rule  Cook  Book  (600  Recipes 

for  Meatless  Dishes).     Sharpe 2.00 

Guide  to  Modem  Cookery.  M.  Escoffier  4.00 
Handbook  of  Home  Economics.  Flagg  .75 
Handbook    of    Hospitality    for    Town 

and  Country.    Florence  H.  Hall....  1.50 
Handbook  of  Invalid  Cooking.     Mary 

A.  Boland  2.00 

Handbook  on  Sanitation.    G.  M.  Price, 

M.  D 1.50 

Healthful   Farm   House,   The.     Helen 

Dodd    60 

Home  Candy  Making.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Home  Economics.    Maria  Parloa 1.50 

Home  Economics  Movement 75 

Home  Nursing.     Harrison   1.00 

Home  Problems  from  a  New  Standpoint  1.00 
Home  Science  Cook  Book.    Anna  Bar- 
rows and  Mary  J.  Lincoln 1.00 

Homes  and  Their  Decoration.    French  3.00 

Hot  Weather  Dishes.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

House  Sanitation.    Talbot 80 

Household  Bacteriology.  Buchanan..  2.25 
Household  Economics.  Helen  Campbell  1.50 
Household  Science.  Junita  L.  Shepperd  1.75 

Household ''Textiles.     Gibbs 1.25 

How  To  Cook  Fish.    Olive  Green ....  1.00 
How  To  Cook  for  the  Sick  and  Con- 
valescent.   H.  V.  Sachse 1.00 

How  To  Feed    Children.     Louise    £. 

Hogan    1.00 

How  to  Use  a  Chafing  Dish.  Mrs.  Rorer    .50 

Human  Food^.    Snyder 1.25 

Ice  Cream,  Water  Ices,  etc.    Rorer  ...     .75 

Institution  Recipes.    Smedley 1.25 

International  Cook  Book.    Filippini...  1.00 

Kitchen  Companion.    Parloa 2.50 

Laundry  Manual.   Balderston  and  Lim- 
erick     50 

Laundry  Work.  Juanita  L.  Shepperd  .60 
Lessons  in  Cooking  Through  Prepara- 

tion  of  Meals  2.00 

Lessons  in  Elementary  Cooking.   Mary 

C.    Jones   1.08 

Like  Mother  Used  to  Make.  Herrick.  1.25 
Louis'     Salad     and     Chafing     Dishes. 

Muckensturm     50 

Luncheons.     Mary  Roland  1.40 

Made-over  Dishes.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Many  Ways  for  Cooking  Eggs.    Mrs. 

Rorer    50 

Menu  Book  and   Register  of  Dishes. 

Senn    2.50 

Mothers',  The,  Guide.     Coolidge 50 

My  Best  250  Recipes.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 

New  Book  of  Cookery,  A.  Fannie  M. 

Farmer 1.60 

New  Hostess  of  Today.    Lamed 1.50 

New  Salads.     Mrs.  Korer  , 75 

Nursing,  Its  Principles  and    Practice. 

Isabel  H.  Robb 2.00 

Nutrition  of  Man.    Chittenden  3.00 


Old  Time  Recipes  for    Home    Made 

Wines.     Helen  S.  Wright 1.50 

One  Woman's  Work  for  Farm  Women    .50 

Paper  Bag  Cookery.    Soyer 60 

Pleasures  of  the  Table.     Elwanger....  2.50 
Practical  Cooking  and  Dinner  Giving. 

Mrs.  Mary  F.  Henderson 1.50 

Practical  Cooking  and  Serving.     Mrs. 

Janet  M.  Hill 1.50 

Practical  Dietetics.    Oilman  Thompson  5.00 
Practical    Points    in    Nursing.     Emily 

A.  M.  Stoney  1.75 

Practical  Sewing  St  Dressmaking.    Al- 

lington 1.50 

Principles  of  Home  Decoration.    Can- 
dace  Wheeler   1.80 

Principles  of  Human  Nutrition.  Jordan  1.75 
Proper  Feeding  of  the  Family.    Gibbs    .25 

Quick  Soups.    Mrs.  Rorer 25 

Recipes  and  Menus  for  Fifty.    Frances 

Lowe  Smith   1.50 

Register  of  Foods 1.00 

Rorer's  (Mrs.)  New  Cook  Book 2.00 

Salads  and  Sauces.    Murray 50 

Salads,  Sandwiches,  and  Chafing  Dish 

Dainties.    Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill 1.50 

Sanitation  in  Daily  Life.    Richards 60 

Sewing  Course  for  Schools.    Woolman  1.50 

Story  of  Germ  Life.    H.  W.  Conn 35 

Soyer's  Standard  Cookery  1.50 

Sunday  Night  Suppers.    Christine  Ter- 

hune  Herrick  1.00 

The  Story  of  Textiles 3.00 

The  Up-to-Date  Waitress.    Mrs.  Janet 

M.   Hill    1.50 

The  Woman  Who  Spends.    Bertha  J. 

Richardson   1.00 

Till  the  Doctor  Comes,  and  How  To 

Help  Him  1.00 

Vegetable  Cookery  and  Meat    Substi- 
tutes.   Mrs.  Rorer 1.50 

Vegetarian  Cookery.    A.  G.  Payne SO 

With  a  Saucepan  Over  the  Sea.    Ade- 
laide Keen    1.50 

Women    and     Economics.      Charlotte 

Perkins  Stetson    1.50 

Woman's  Share  in   Primitive   Culture. 

Otis  J.  Mason   1.75 

World's  CoBMnercial  Products,  The.  . .  3.60 

Library  of  Home  Economics: 


TIm  BtvM 

HMudi«li  BactorMtfT 
Htoadioli  njp9m9 
ChMBiitry  ol  Iht  HraMhtU 
PriadplM  ol  Ccoktry 
rM4  and  Dl«l8lict 


Hpwaholi  Nuafiawat 

Hmm C««  JiSt  Sick 
TcxtilM  and  Clflthlag 
Study  al  CUM  Lila 
Cart  al  Chfldraa 

(May   be   purchased    as   a    set   or 
singly  at  $1.50  a  volume). 

Appleton's 
The  Complete  Home  Library 

Tha  Camplala  Baateit  I  Tka  Caoiplale  Draaamakar 

Tha  Caoiplato  Bama  I  Tha  Camplala  Baaoty  Baak 

Publishexa'  price  $1.25  per  volume 

Our  Special  Price  (Sets  only,  4  vols.)  3.00 


ADDRBS8  ALL  ORDERS 

THE  BOSTON  COOKIN&SCHOOL  B«AGAZINE  CO.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

503 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


4 

m 


m\ 


uu  ths 
piodt 
yi  a  £ 
I  for 

ithat 
Icnow 

lie  bn 
lity  ol 

ms  tlu 
mLeel 


ins  tlu 
in  opi 


«af  L 

'  short 
le  it  i 
sacked 


SIMON  PURE 

made  only  from 


Buy  advutued  Goodi  —  do  not  accept  substii  ui 


Menus  for  Festivities  in  February 

ValentlDe  Luncheon 

Grapefruit  Cocktail,  with  Cherry  Hearts 

Oysters,  Lansdales  or  Creamed  in  Patties 

Tenderloin  Cutlets,  Newport  Style 

(Heart-shaped) 

Brown  Sauce  with  Asparagus  Tips 

Artichoke  Bottoms.  St.  George. 

Lettuce  and  French  Dressing 

Pineapple  Dessert,  Valentine  Style 

Heart-shaped  Cakes 

White  and  Pink  Minte 

Coffee 

Valeatine  H^h  T»a  H^b  Tea  for  Februair  22 

Creamed    Chicken,  Green   Peas  and  Conaomm^  Celestine 

Pimiento  Hearts  (Chafing  Dish)-   ■'  (Hatchet -shaped   Pancake  in  each   Plate) 

Lady  Finger  Rolls  Chicken  Croquettes  (Cannon-ball  Shape) 
Mayonnaise  <rf  Celery,  Pineapple  and  Peas,  with  Cubes  of  Carrot 

White  Grapes  Olives         Quick  Yeast  Rolls        Radishes 
(Small  Cherry  Hearts  for  Decoration)  Individual  Pumpkin  Pies 

Heart-shaped  Cakes  (Whipped  Cream,  with  Cherry) 

Cocoa  with  Marshmallows  George  Washington  Wafers 

Tea^ 


RECEPTACLE  FOB  FAVOHS 


The 
Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


Vol.  XVIII 


FEBRUARY,  1914 


No.  7 


"A  Reversion  to  Type" 

The  Home  of  Mr.  Reed  Knox  at  Valley  Forge 

By  Charles  Vaughn  Boyd 
Dukring,  Okie  and  Ziegler,  Architects,  Philadelphia 


INTERWOVEN  as  it  is  with  the 
very  birth  of  our  nation,  Valley 
Forge  possesses  an  interest  unique 
and  abiding.  It  is,  indeed,  for  loyal 
Americans  a  spot  hallowed  by  the  mem- 
ory of  those  patriots,  who  there  bravely 
and  gladly  endured  privations  untold. 
that  a  new  country  might  rise  into  being. 
Washington's  Headquarters,  that  old 
building  which  is  so  closely  associated 
with  Valley  Forge's  early  history-making 
days,  is  now  surrounded  by  a  Govern- 
ment Reservation  —  a  huge  tract  of 
land,  embracing  magnificent,  wooded 
heights,  and  fertile,  rolling  meadows. 
Sharing  in  all  this  glorious  scenic  heri- 
tage, Valley  Forge  Farm,  the  country 
estate  of  the  Honorable  Philander  C. 
Knox,  is  ideally  situated  immediately 
beyond  the  bounds  of  the  Reservation. 
Valley  Forge  Farm  is  an  estate  of  almost 
feudal  proportions.  It  possesses,  there- 
fore, many  delightful  vantage  points, 
one  of  the  most  delightful  of  which 
was  set  aside  several  years  ago  by  Mr. 
Knox  for  his  son,  Mr.  Reed  Knox. 

Think  what  might  have  been  built 
on  this  well-nigh  ideal  site!  Replica 
of  medieval  castle,  Elizabethan  mansion, 
Swiss  chalet,  or  ancient  mission.  In- 
stinctively, we  know  that  none  of  these 
would  have  been  in  the  slightest  degree 


appropriate  in  a  purely  Colonial  atmo- 
sphere. Fortunately,  however,  there  is, 
upon  this  Pennsylvania  farm  hillside, 
a  house,  unpretentious  yet  dignified 
in  character;  a  house  faithfully  adhering 
in  its  design  to  the  spirit  of  early  farm- 
house architecture  in  Pennsylvania.  Be- 
cause of  this  reversion  to  a  type  native 
to  the  soil,  Mr.  Reed  Knox's  house  is 
indeed  notably  in  harmony  with  its 
environment  —  and,  in  view  of  this 
perfect    relationship    existing    between 


SERVICE  WING 


508 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


house  and  site,  ^s  it  not  superfluous  to 
add  that  commendatory  term,  "suc- 
cessful' '  ? 

Leaving  the  main  road  of  the  estate, 
a  broad  driveway  winds  up  the  hillside 
to  Mr.  Knox's  home  grounds,  the  bounds 
of  which  are  defined  by  a  low,  white- 
washed fence,  such  as  might  have  been 
used  on  farms  of  a  hundred  years  ago. 
Thus  in  details,  which  are  often  over- 
looked, a  pleasing  consistency  has  pre- 
vailed. 

Ere  reaching  the  main  entrance  of 
the  house,  the  driveway  passes  the 
service  wing.  Unlike  many  other  homes, 
however,  the  Knox  house  betrays  no 
sharp  distinction  between  the  front 
and  rear  elevations;  the  service  wing, 
with  its  massive,  dominating  chim- 
ney, and  its  screened,  old-fashioned, 
servants'  porch,  vieing  in  attractive- 
ness with  the  balance  of  the  house. 

This  new-old  house  is  solidly  built 
of  stone,  whitewashed  to  conform  with 
a  custom  obtaining  in  the  locality's 
Colonial  days.  The  irregular  texture 
of  the  stonework  creates  a  splendid 
foundation     for    this    dazzling    white. 


making  it  a  thing  of  beauty,  with  a 
delightful  play  of  high  and  low  lights, 
against  which  the  "weathered"  shingles 
of  the  roof  and  the  deep  green  blinds 
of  the  upper  windows  are  in  effective 
contrast. 

The  main  entrance  to  the  house  is 
denoted  by  a  broad  hood,  in  which  the 
"shell"  motif  is  indicated  by  a  plastered 
recess.  Beneath  the  hood,  there  is  a 
wide,  six -paneled  door,  flanked  by  small- 
paned  side  lights.  This  interesting  door- 
way is  duplicated  upon  the  garden 
elevation  of  the  house.  There,  how- 
ever, the  shell  above  the  doorway  forms 
the  central  feature  of  a  "Germantown 
Hood,"  which,  extending  the  full  width 
of  the  house,  materially  decreases  the 
apparent  height. 

These  two  entrances  add  much  to 
the  attractiveness  of  the  long,  central 
hall  which  they  terminate.  The  hall 
is  nine  feet  wide,  and  it  is  very  simply 
treated,  both  as  to  architecture  and 
decoration;  a  staircase,  with  delicate, 
ivory-white  balusters  and  risers,  accom- 
panied by  the  mahogany  handrail  and 
treads  of  Colonial  precedent,  being  the 


THE  LIVING-ROOM 


"A  REVERSION  TO  TYPE" 


chief  feature.  The  space  beneath  this 
staircase  has  been  advantageously  util- 
ized for  a  coat-closet,  so  located  that 
it  is  conveniently  near  the  main  entrance. 

The  hall  walls  are  hung  with  a  sub- 
dued gray  paper,  which  is  very  effective 
against  the  ivory-white  woodwork. 
Gray  appears  again  in  the  rug,  form- 
ing a  background  for  a  small  conven- 
tional design  in  dull  rose  and  green. 
Several  pieces  of  antique  furniture 
complete  a  hall,  which,  by  reason  of  its 
wholesome  restraint  in  adornment  and 
coloring,  creates  an  atmosphere  of  pleas- 
ing restfulness. 

Commanding  delightful  outlooks  in 
three  directions,  the  living-room  occu- 
pies the  entire  space  at  one  side  of 
the  hall.  It  is  a  pleasant,  low-ceiled 
room,  twenty-seven  and  a  half  feet 
long  by  seventeen  feet  wide,  so  gener- 
ously provided  with  windows  that  the 
great  outdoor  world  seems  indeed 
almost  to  pervade  it.  One  wall  is  centred 
by  a  broad  chimney-breast,  the  open 
fireplace  having  a  hearth  and  facing 
of  stone,  laid  with  a. 'wide,  raked-out 
joint.  An  original  idea,  successfully 
carried  out.  was  that  of  substituting 
for  the  conventional  mantel  a  shelf 
formed  of  long,  flat  stone.  Above  this 
novel  shelf  is  appropriately  hung  a 
gilt  Colonial  mirror.  The  wall  space 
on  each  side  of  the  fireplace  is  occupied 
by  French  casements  and  by  glass- 
doored,  built-in  bookcases. 

As  the  living-room  has  a  sunny 
exposure,  the  old  blue  foundation  of 
the  color-scheme  is  a  happy  choice. 
Blue  predominates  on  the  rug,  which 
has  an  unpattemed  centre,  bordered 
with  a  conventional  design  in  bright 
tints,  corresponding  with  the  decorative 
chintz  hangings.  The  plain  wall-hang- 
ing repeats  the  blue  note;  and  the  gaily 
,  flowered  chintz  chair-coverings  add  the 
requisite  relieving  touches. 

Many  living-rooms  are  marked  by 
an  absence  of  what  should  be  the  out- 
standing characteristic  —  a  quality, 
which    for   lack   of   a   more   expressive 


CORNER  OF  DINING-BOOM 

term,  we  designate  as  "liveablencss". 
The  Knox  living-room  is  essentially 
liveable;  for  it  is  furnished  with  a  view 
to  both  comfort  and  beauty.  Without 
the  slightest  incongurity,  furniture  of 
priceless  old  mahogany  and  antique 
painted  wood  mingles,  with  examples 
of  modern  wicker,  lending  an  alluring 
informality  to  the  room. 

French  casements  lead  from  the  liv- 
ing room  to  a  wide  porch,  the  floor 
of  which  is  paved  with  bricks,  laid 
in  fours  to  form  square  units.  The  porch 
is  raised  only  a  single  step  above  the 
■lawn;  therefore,  instead  of  a  balus- 
trade, potted  palms  and  sword  ferns 
bound  the  porch.  The  square  posts, 
devoid  of  mouldings,  which  support 
the  porch  roof,  carry  out  the  Penn- 
sylvania farm-house  motif :  in  addition, 
they  lend  themselves  particularly  well 
to  the  glazing  of  the  porch  to  form  a 
solarium.  Furniture  of  green  wicker 
with  chintz  cushions  in  green,  red  and 
white,  is  used  with  good  effect  on  the 
porch. 

Although  readily  accessible  from  the 
living-room,  the  dining-room  is  far 
enough  removed  to  warrant  an  entirely 


510 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


different  color-scheme.  That,  however, 
this  scheme  may  be  in  harmony  with 
that  of  the  hall  adjoining,  the  walls 
are  hung  with  paper  of  warm  gray  tones. 
The  wallpaper  is  a  clever  reproduction  of 
a  very  old  pastoral  design,  groups  of 
cattle  and  sheep  alternating  in  a  foliage 
setting.  In  this  design,  so  suggestive 
of  farm  life,  there  is  still  another  evi- 
dence of  the  pronounced  harmony  be- 
tween the  house  and  its  surroundings. 
The  rug  is  of  gray-green,  the  plain 
centre  carrying  a  narrow  conventional 
border,  which  in  design  corresponds 
with  the  band  of  stencilling  upon  the 
gray  scrim  curtains.  With  this  cool, 
quiet  setting,  the  Colonial  furniture 
of  inlaid  mahogany  is  thoroughly  satis- 
fying. 

The  dining-room  contains  two  archi- 
tectural features  of  note.  The  first 
is  a  large  bvdlt-in  china-closet,  enameled 
ivory-white  to  match  the  remainder 
of  the  woodwork.    The  design  possesses 


much  compositional  charm  —  the  lines 
are  good,  the  paneling  and  the  glass- 
doors  being  especially  well  handled. 
The  other  noteworthy  feature  of  the 
dining-room  is  the  fireptace.  It  is 
of  a  type  rarely  encountered  in  modem 
work;  as,  instead  of  the  usual  stone, 
brick  or  tile,  the  facing  is  of  white 
plaster.  Against  the  lining  and  hearth 
of  dark  red  brick,  the  effect  of  this 
white  plaster  is  lUiusually  interest- 
ing; and  the  simple  white  mantel 
framing  the  plaster  is  in  keeping  with 
the  Colonial  spirit  of  the  room. 

That  much  care  has  been  lavished 
upon  its  planning  is  plainly  indicated 
by  the  excellent  arrangement  of  the 
service  department.  A  large  and  well- 
equipped  pantry  serves  as  a  quick 
passage  from  the  kitchen  to  either 
the  hall  or  the  dining-room,  shutting 
off  the  inevitable  odors  of  cooking.  In 
the  kitchen,  the  built-in  fixtures  are 
so    placed    that    the    household    work 


THE  PORCH 


"A  REVERSION  TO  TYPE" 


FIRST  FLOOR  PLAN 


SECOND  FLOOR  PLAN 


may  be  handled  with  the  greatest 
ease  and  with  the  fewest  steps.  The 
location  of  the  range  is  especially 
good,  as  abundant  light  is  received 
from  an  adjoining  window;  and,  in 
addition,  this  position  necessitates  only 
one  chimney  to  serve  both  the  dining- 
room  fireplace  and  the  kitchen.  Good 
refrigerating  facilities  are  afforded  by 
a  cold-closet,  which  is  connected  with 
the  kitchen. 

Although   an   adequate  heating   sys- 


tem is  installed  for  possible  winter 
service,  the  house  is  intended  principally 
for  summer  occupation.  No  provision 
is  made,  therefore,  for  a  servants' 
dining-room.  Dimng  the  warm  weather, 
however,  the  servants  have  a  delight- 
ful open-air  dining-room,  a  generous 
porch  for  that  use  having  been  pro- 
vided. 

The  main  staircase  ascends  by  easy 
stages  to  a  small  central  hall  on  the 
second  floor.     From  this  hall,  passages 


512 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


lead  to  left  and  right.  One  passage 
is  isolated  to  give  a  separate  suite,  this 
inner  hall  communicating  with  the 
servants'  bath  and  sleeping  rooms, 
and  with  the  service  stairs  to  the  kit- 
chen. The  second  passage  leads  to 
a  very  pleasant  guest-room  and  bath- 
room. The  garden  elevation  of  the 
second  floor  is  occupied  by  the  master's 
suite,  comprising  two  large  bedrooms, 
with  a  private  bathroom.  This  suite 
is  interesting,  both  in  decoration  and 
planning.  Each  of  the  family  bedrooms 
possesses  roomy  closets,  an  attractive 
fireplace  and  three  large  windows,  to 
insure  cross-ventilation.  Quaint,  old- 
fashioned  papers  in  delicate  tints  adorn 
the  walls  of  all  the  bedrooms,  and  ivory- 
white  enamel  finishes  the  woodwork; 
mahogany  doors  and  antique  furniture 
give  desirable  touches  of  virility. 

Abimdant  space  is  provided  in  the 
house  for  storage,  the  entire  third 
floor  being  available  for  that  purpose. 
Two   large   closets,    opening   from   the 


second    floor    hall,    give    still    further 
storage  room. 

The  Knox  house  eloquently  testifies 
to  two  conditions,  which  have,  per- 
haps, been  the  chief  contributaries  to 
its  gratifying  success.  First,  possibly, 
should  be  placed  an  evidently  hearty 
co-operation  between  owner  and  archi- 
tects, as,  without  that  unanimity  of 
spirit,  the  designers'  ideas  could  not 
have  taken  corporate  shape.  The  sec- 
ond contributary  is  not  less  important. 
Instead  of  despising  those  things  which 
were  near  at  hand,  the  architects 
found  inspiration  in  the  simple  Penn- 
sylvania farmhouses  of  a  by-gone  gen- 
eration .  They  absorbed  the  chaste  spirit 
of  the  old  designs;  and  embodied  all 
that  spirit  in  a  home,  which,  never- 
theless, meets  every  modem  condition. 
To  the  architects,  in  thus  perpetuat- 
ing, amid  peculiarly  fitting  surround- 
ings, a  type  of  architecture  so  essentially 
indigenous  to  Pennsylvania,  honor  is 
indeed  due. 


The  Deleted  Lines 

How  little  of  life  I  have  kept!     Old  hopes  and 
fears 
Alike  from  the  changing  canvas  swept. 
How  small  in  my  heart  the  picture  of  largest 
years! 
How  little  of  life  I  have  kept ! 

Oh,  what  of  the  grief? —  forgot  ton  the  sorrows 

I  wept! 
And  joy?  —  the  laughter  has  passed  with  the 

tears! 
And  pride?  —  no  path  holds  the  print  where  I 

stepped ! 


Peace,  O  my  heart!     However  my  fortune 
veers, 
The  gift  of  the  day  let  me  accept. 
Still  keeping,  at  last,  but  the  good,  the  remem- 
brance that  cheers!  — 
How  little  of  life  I  have  kept ! 

Stokely  S.  Fisher 


A  Valentine  Doll 


By  Mix  Thorn 


MISS  Lucy  was  pouring  tea 
into  the  dainty  blue  and 
gold  cups,  that  were  stand- 
ing on  the  dark  mahogany  table  before 
her,  and  close  to  her  blue  silk  elbow 
stood  seven-year-old  Dorothy,  watch- 
ing her  with  adoring  eyes.  How  white 
and  soft  were  Miss  Lucy's  hands, 
how  sparkling  her  rings,  and  how  lovely 
the  silk  gown  that  in  azure  ripples 
followed  the  curve  of  the  wicker  chair. 
And  then  the  child's  eyes  grew  sober. 
What  had  Miss  Lucy  just  said! 
How  sad  and  dreadful!  That  she  had 
no  doll,  did  not  own  a  single  doll.  Why 
she,  Dorothy,  had  ten  dolls,  large 
ones,  small  ones,  middle-sized,  and  — 
still  she  heard  Miss  Lucy's  soft  voice 
saying,  **Why  no,  dear,  I  gave  my  last 
doll  away  several  years  ago." 

Then  two  dignified  ladies  came  up 
to  the  tea  table,  and  visited  with  Miss 
Lucy,  while  they  drank  their  tea, 
very  slowly,  and  Dorothy  moved  quietly 
away.  It  was  her  joy  to  call  upon 
Miss  Lucy,  especially  on  the  days 
when  she  poured  tea,  and  the  gentle 
hostess  never  neglected  her  youngest 
guest. 

Half  an  hour  later,  Katrina  came 
for  Dorothy,  for  the  great  outdoors 
was  darkening,  and  the  street  lights 
were  glowing  like  miniature  moons. 
All  the  while  the  maid  was  putting 
on  her  coat,  furs  and  hat,  the  child 
was  lost  in  reverie,  and,  unseeing,  she 
walked  along  the  windy  Avenue.  What 
could  be  done  for  Miss  Lucy,  dear 
Miss  Lucy,  who  seemed  to  have  every- 
thing desirable  but  a  doll,  and  what 
a  lack  that  was!  True,  she  went  to 
parties,  hadn't  Dorothy  seen  the  lovely 
filmy  gowns  that  she  wore  on  such 
occasions?  She  knew  that  Miss  Lucy 
and  her  friends  drove  away  to  concerts 


and  theatres,  but  she  must  sometimes 
fed  the  need  of  a  doll.  When  she  came 
home  late,  very  late  through  the  lighted 
streets,  when  the  mysterious  stars  were 
out,  long  after  a  little  girl's  bed  time, 
what  a  comfort  a  doll  would  then  be, 
a  cheerful,  dependable  doll,  to  sit 
by  the  fire  with  her,  possibly  on  her 
lap. 

Perhaps,  if  Miss  Lucy  felt  lonely, 
she  might  easily  take  a  doll  with  her 
into  that  canopied,  lace-trimmed  bed 
of  hers.  Well  did  Dorothy  know  the 
comfort  of  a  doll  on  sundry  trying 
occasions.  A  cold  hard  cheek  to  press 
against  a  soft,  flushed  one,  and  then, 
all  troubles  forgotten,  to  drift  off  to 
the  land  of  dreams,  clinging  to  a  dim- 
pled plaster  hand. 

Upon  reaching  home,  she  gravely 
examined  her  doll  family,  each  one 
in  turn,  from  the  largest  doll  who  spent 
most  of  her  time  in  her  go-cart  to  the 
tiniest  member  who  lived  in  the  paste 
board  doll-house,  content  to  view  the 
passing  show,  through  red  isinglass 
windows. 

How,  Dorothy  asked  herself,  how 
could  she  spare  any  of  these,  her  loved 
children?  And,  yet.  Miss  Lucy  had 
no  doll. 

Next  morning,  at  breakfast,  the  little 
girl  looked  up  from  her  orange,  to 
inquire  of  the  assembled  family, — 
"What  sort  of  a  doll  would  one  give 
to  a  young  lady?" 

**A  boy  doll,"  was  Uncle  Ned's  reply, 
Uncle  Ned  was  in  Yale,  and  had  just 
run  down  for  the  week-end. 
'  **I  guess  she'd  like  a  girl  doll  better," 
made  answer  Dorothy,  yet  she  looked 
troubled, 

"Why,    darUng,"    said    mother,    "I 
believe  a  yotmg  lady,  an  understanding 
young  lady,  would  love  just  the   8  or 
513 


514 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


of  a  doll  a  little  mother,  like  yourself, 
would  choose.'' 

But  it  was  after  talking  it  over  with 
Grandma  Perkins,  in  the  big  sunny 
room  where  the  children  loved  to  stay, 
that  Dorothy  at  last  decided  what 
she  wotdd  do.  Grandma  didn't  think 
she  ought  to  give  away  any  of  her  dear 
doll  family,  which  was  a  comfort, 
but  instead,  she  and  Grandma  Perkins 
would  go  down  to  the  biggest  toy  shop 
in  town  and  pick  out  a  lovely  doll  for 
Miss  Lucy,  and  send  it  to  her  for  a 
valentine. 

Theirs  was  no  easy  task,  a  certain 
bright  wintry  morning,  the  toy  shop 
had  quantities  of  dolls  to  show,  and 
many  of  the  blue-eyed,  and  brown-eyed 
babies  seemed  desirable,  nay  more, 
appealing,  as  if  saying  '*Send  us  to 
Miss  Lucy."  But,  at  last,  both  Grandma 
Perkins  and  Dorothy  agreed  on  a 
blonde  beauty,  who  held  out  her  arms 
in  the  most  friendly  fashion,  smiled 
inscrutably,  and  who  was  dressed  in 
the  daintiest  little  white  frock,  with  a 
wild  pink  bow  on  either  shotdder. 

Tenderly  Miss  Lucy's  doll  was 
wrapped  in  the  softest  tissue  paper, 
and  then  placed  in  the  box,  and  Grand- 
ma Perkins  directed  it  in  her  deKcate, 
spidery  handwriting.  Then  it  was  given 
to  Wilkins,  the  diauffeur,  to  deliver 
next  morning,  for  that  was  the  four- 
teenth of  February. 

Straight  up  to  Miss  Lucy's  own 
little  sitting  room  the  maid  brought 
the  mysterious,  long  box  that  Grandma 
Perkins  had  directed. 

"And  whatever  is  this?"  cried  Miss 
Lucy,  her  pink  cheeks  flushing  pinker 
than  usual,  as  she  eagerly  untied  the 
gold  cord. 

"Why,  what  does  it  mean?"  she 
exclaimed,  as  the  smiling  dollie  met 
her  astonished  eyes,  and  then  she  read 


the  little  card  on  which  Dorothy  had 
laboriously  printed  — 

"A  Valentine  for  Dear  Miss  Lucy, 
who  had  no  doll." 

"The  blessed  child,"  whispered  Miss 
Lucy,  "my  own  dear  little  friend," 
and  tears  filled  her  wide  gray  eyes. 
"To  think  she  remembered  what  I 
said.  This  is  my  very  nicest  valen- 
tine; yes,"  looking  around  the  room, 
"my  very  nicest,"  and  though  a  won- 
derful bunch  of  violets,  as  fragrant 
as  the  spring  itself,  stood  on  the  table 
in  a  clear  glass  bowl,  and  tall  long- 
stemmed  roses  occupied  a  vase  on  the 
mantle,  while  some  splendid  boxes 
of  chocolates  rested  on  the  couch,  I 
yet  think  that  Miss  Lucy  was  right, 
and  that  Dorothy's  doll  was  her  nicest 
valentine 

I  wish  that  the  little  girl  could  have 
seen  what  Miss  Lucy  did  next,  for 
she  cuddled  her  new  doll  on  her  shoulder 
in  the  most  natural  fashion,  and  even 
pressed  her  lips  to  the  very  blonde 
curls. 

You  see  it  was  not  so  many  years 
since  Miss  Lucy  had  played  with  a  doll, 
and  she  had  not  quite  forgotten  what 
to  do  with  one. 

"But  I  do  wonder,"  mused  that 
young  lady  an  hour  later,  as  she  stood 
before  her  mirror  adjusting  her  hat, 
"I  do  wonder  after  all,  why  Dorothy 
sent  a  doll  to  such  a  very  grown-up 
person  as  myself." 

And  though  she  did  not  guess,  I 
really  think  her  mirror  might  have 
told  her,  for  the  reflected  eyes  were 
innocent  and  trusting  as  Dorothy's 
own,  holding  in  some  marvelous  fashion, 
their  little  girl  look,  as  if  Miss  Lucy 
still  felt  the  call  of  Toy  Land,  and, 
recognizing  this,  her  little  friend,  with 
the  unerring  intuition  of  childhood, 
had  sent  —  a  Valentine  Doll. 


English  and  American  Homes 

A  Contrast  in  Conditions 

By  Annie  Mitchell 


AN  American  visiting  an  English 
home  is  at  once  impressed  with 
the  noiseless  manner  in  which 
the  household  machinery  moves.  You 
hear  no  dire  tales  from  the  mistress  of 
the  home  about  the  inefficiency  of  ser- 
vants, and  yet  the  conditions  that  exist 
there  are  such  that  house-work  ought 
to  be  much  harder  than  it  is  with  us. 

Let  us  take,  for  example,  two  very 
important  factors  in  the  running  of  a 
house  —  namely,  water  supply  and  heat- 
ing. The  physical  tax  upon  an  English 
servant  by  those  two  things  alone  is 
quite  inconceivable  in  America,  where 
such  different  conditions  obtain.  Dur- 
ing a  two  years'  sojourn  in  Englnad,  I 
only  found  one  home  that  was  heated 
"  by  pipes,"  as  they  say  there,  and 
then  heat  was  only  transmitted  to  the 
first  floor. 

I  remember  how  I  hailed  with  joy 
this  limited  supply  of  steam  heat,  as  it 
helped  to  dissipate  the  tomb-like  damp- 
ness that  pervades  an  English  home 
from  November  to  March. 

Think  what  all  these  open  fire-places 
mean  in  the  way  of  extra  workl  Coal 
supply  must  be  carried  to  the  different 
rooms;  the  various  fire-places  must  be 
cleaned  out  every  morning;  the  hearth 
weU  brushed  and  the  brasses  polished. 

The  absence  of  heating  apparatus 
also  means  that  the  bath  room  is  prac- 
tically useless  for  washing  purposes  in 
cold  weather:  therefore  hot  and  cold 
water  must  be  brought  to  the  bed  rooms. 
Every  morning,  about  8.30,  the  house- 
maids can  be  seen  toiling  over  the  stairs 
with  large  brass  pitchers  of  water,  which 
are  deposited  in  due  time  in  the  various 
bed  rooms. 

Breakfast  is  never  served  before  9 
o'clock.  If  you  have  been  accustomed 
to  breakfast  at  8  o'clock,  you  may  ex- 


pect, when  that  hotu"  arrives,  to  be 
assailed  by  pangs  of  hunger;  and  you 
are  tempted  to  make  remarks  (sotto 
voce)  about  these  English  methods. 
Presently,  your  wrath  is  softened  by 
the  entrance  of  a  housemaid  with  what 
is  known  as  "  the  early  morning  tea." 
This  consists  of  a  cup  of  tea  and  a  thin 
slice  of  bread  and  butter. 

Being    thus    fortified,    your    spirits  * 
revive,  and  you  are  able  to  proceed  with 
the  morning  toilet,  which  is  made  with 
as  much  expedition  as  your  ntmibed 
fingers  will-permit. 

Then  you  hasten  to  the  breakfast 
room,  the  only  place  in  the  house  where 
there  is  any  heat,  and  proceed  to  thaw 
yourself  before  the  open  fire.  The 
family  hurry  in,  one  after  another,  all 
more  or  less  in  a  shivering  condition. 
If  you  are  wise,  you  will  refrain  from 
any  remarks  about  their  method  of 
heating  houses;  for  you  will  be  told 
very  quickly,  with  an  air  of  finality,  that 
warm  houses  are  very  unhealthy. 

You  will  note  from  the  spic  and 
span  condition  of  the  rooms  that  the 
morning  work  of  tidying  up  has  been 
completed  dtuing  the  two  hours  that 
have  intervened  between  the  servants* 
rising,  at  7  o'clock,  and  the  serving  of 
breakfast,  at  9  o'clock.  This  accounts 
for  the  fact  that  you  never  see  a  servant 
with  a  broom  in  her  hand.  By  what 
species  of  magic,  I  queried,  is  this  house- 
hold machinery  kept  in  motion?  Is  it 
oiled  by  fairy  hands  or  are  there  secret 
springs?  With  a  grim  determination 
to  discover  if  possible  what  this  motive 
power  was,  I  began  my  investigation. 

After  carefully  collecting  the  evidence 
at  hand,  I  reached  this  conclusion.  The 
women  who  go  out  to  service  in  England 
have  better  qualifications  for  the  making 
of  a  good  servant  than  the  domestics 
515 


516 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING^CHOOL  MAGAZINE 


in  this  country.  Here  is  one  place  that 
the  class  distinction  in  the  old  country 
has  a  beneficial  side.  People  expect  to 
stay  put  in  the  station  of  life  into  which 
they  have  been  bom.  It  is  not  an  un- 
common thing  to  find  servants  who  have 
remained  in  the  same  family  for  a 
dozen  years.  The  line  of  demaracation 
between  mistress  and  maid  being  clearly 
drawn,  it  is  easy  to  define  the  require- 
ments of  each  station,  and  a  clearer 
understanding  of  their  respective  duties 
is  the  result. 

The  next  discovery  I  made  was  that 
the  amount  of  work  required  from  one 
domestic  in  America  is  divided  among 
three  in  England.  Do  I  hear  the 
American  housewife  who  is  paying  a 
general  housework  girl  from  five  dollars 
to  six  dollars  a  week  exclaim  —  **  How 
can  they  afford  it?  '*  The  reason  that 
they  can  afford  it  is  because  the  wages 
are  so  low  on  the  other  side.  The  aver- 
age wages  of  an  English  domestic  is 
sixty  dollars  per  year,  about  five  dollars 
a  month.  Now,  this  permits  of  having 
three  servants  for  the  same  monetary 
outlay  that  secures  one  in  an  American 
home.  The  cook  may  command  as 
much  as  two  and  a  half  dollars  per  week. 
She  sometimes  has  a  helper  who  gets 
from  fifty  cents  to  one  dollar  The 
cook's  work  is  very  much  simplified  by 
having  no  hot  breads  to  prepare  for 
breakfast.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  little 
or  no  bread  of  any  kind  whatever  is 
prepared  in  an  English  home.  The 
baker  supplies  this  article  of  consumption. 

The  English  breakfast  is  a  much 
simpler  thing  than  ours,  consisting, 
generally,  of  toast  and  tea  with  a  little 
bacon.  When  they  have  a  cereal,  it  is 
oat  meal,  or  porridge  as  they  call  it. 
Fruit  is  so  expensive  that  it  is  regarded 
as  a  luxury  that  comparatively  few 
households  can  afford. 

I  was  very  much  impressed  with  the 
manner  in  which  the  mistress  of  the 
house  relieved  the  second  girl  from  at- 
tendance on  table  at  the  morning  meal. 
The  food  is  brought  in,  placed_on_the 


table  in  covered  dishes,  and  the  maid 
disappears,  not  to  be  seen  again  during 
the  meal.  The  bread  is  always  put  on 
in  loaf  form.  It  often  stands  on  the 
sideboard;  and  I  have  seen  the  yoimg 
men  of  the  family  go  and  cut  a  slice 
for  the  guest,  when  he  was  ready  for  a 
second  helping.  Contrast  this  with  the 
American  home,  when  one  maid  is  often 
required  to  prepare  various  hot  dishes 
for  breakfast  and  then  is  expected  to 
bring  in  the  different  courses  and  serve 
them. 

If  it  is  Monday,  the  washing  is  staring 
her  in  the  face.  The  washing  is  always 
sent  out  in  England,  so  that  "  blue 
Monday "  is  imknown  there.  The 
work  of  every  servant  is  clearly  defined 
and  no  mistress  would  think  of  asking 
a  servant  to  do  anything  that  is  not 
within  her  province. 

It  is  part  of  the  second  girl's  work 
to  wait  upon  the  mistress  in  the  capacity 
of  lady's  maid.  She  must  also  do  the 
mending  of  the  men  of  the  home. 

On  Sunday,  the  maids  go  to  the  morn- 
ing service,  in  their  ttun,  but  all  have  the 
privilege  or  going  to  the  evening  service, 
which  takes  place  at  6.30. 

Afternoon  tea  is  served  at  5  o'clock 
on  Sunday,  and  supper  from  8.30  to 
9  o'clock.  This  gives  the  servants  time 
to  get  back  from  church  and  prepare  the 
evem'ng  meal. 

I  happened  to  reach  an  English  home, 
where  I  was  about  to  make  a  visit,  on 
the  eve  of  a  bank  holiday.  These  bank 
holidays  occiu"  four  times  a  year.  The 
shops  are  closed  from  Saturday  until 
Tuesday,  so  that  working  people  may 
have  a  week's  end  of  three  days.  My 
hostess  explained  that  it  was  her  custom 
to  arrange  for  each  of  her  servants  in 
their  turn  to  have  an  outing  on  these 
bank  holidays.  She  procured  time- 
tables, selected  the  best  trains  and  paid 
all  the  expenses  of  the  outing.  She  re- 
marked quite  casually,  "this  is  the 
cook's  turn,  so  we  will  have  to  put  up 
with  the  second  girl's  cooking  for  a  few 
days."     She    did    not    apologize,    she 


ENGLISH  AND  AMERICAN  HOMES 


517 


simply   explained   conditions. 

There  was  no  nervous  trepidation 
about  what  I  was  to  have  to  eat.  What 
the  family  had  was  supposed  to  be  good 
enough  for  me.  How  different  from  an 
American  household,  where  the  advent 
of  company  acts  an  as  alarm  signal, 
every  member  of  the  family  bombarding 
the  new  comer  with  attention  until  he 
might  well  ask  to  be  delivered  from  his 
friends. 

In  an  English  home,  the  guest  is 
allowed  to  come  and  go  as  he  pleases. 
With  the  exception  of  placing  an  extra 
plate  at  table,  there  is  no  evidence  of 
an  addition  to  the  family  circle.  Isn't 
this  after  all  the  essence  of  true  hos- 
pitality —  a  willingness  to  share  that 
which  is  our  own  in  the  daily  life  without 
straining  after*  ostentatious  display? 
The  evident  pleasure  they  take  in  dis- 
pensing hospitality  is  the  best  proof 
that  they  get  genuine  enjoyment  them- 
selves in  the  entertainment  of  their 
friends. 

I  remember  once  having  been  invited 
by  a  newly  married  American  friend 
to  make  one  of  a  little  dinner  party  at 
her  home.  She  kept  but  one  maid,  and 
yet  she  had  planned  a  ten-course  dinner. 
This  meant   that   much   of   the   work 

« 

devolved  upon  herself.  She  was  so 
wearied  by  her  efforts  that,  when  she 
sat  down  to  the  dinner  table,  she  looked 
positively  ill. 

In  England  there  would  have  been 
three  servants  preparing  and  serving 
a  much  less  elaborate  meal,  and  the 
hostess  could  have  had  a  fund  of  energy 
reserved  for  the  entertainment  of  her 
guests. 

Is  not  this  mistaken  effort  to  overdo 
things  at  the  root  of  the  servant  pro- 
blem in  America?  A  very  intelligent 
English  lady  once  asked  me  to  tell 
her  what  would  be  required  of  one 
servant  in  America;  and  I  proceeded 
ro  enumerate  what  we  demanded  of  a 
general-housework  girl.  Her  face  be- 
trayed so  much  surprise  that  I  hast- 
ened to  say  —  "But  we  pay  a  servant 


three  times  as  much  wages  as  you  would 
pay  her!"  "That  doesn't  give  her  an- 
other hand  or  foot,"  she  pertinently 
replied. 

Notwithstanding  all  our  modem  ap- 
pliances for  making  housework  easy, 
the  fact  remains  that  both  mistress  and 
maid  have  a  very  laborious  task  run- 
ning our  household  machinery.  What 
is  the  remedy?  We  must  first  learn 
to  eliminate  certain  things  from  the 
daily  needs;  a  simplified  method  of 
living  would  result  in  better  digestion 
and  less  expenditure  of  nerve  force. 
Then  a  little  more  consideration  of  the 
limitations  of  one  servant  would  help 
the  matter. 

The  golden  rule  should  be  applied 
here  as  elsewhere.  An  intelligent  mis- 
tress ought  not  to  expect  the  raw  emi- 
grant without  any  educational  training 
to  act  with  her  judgment.  There  is 
the  same  gap  between  them  that  exists 
between  the  teacher  and  the  pupil  in 
a  school;  but  she  forgets  this  because 
the  servant  is  grown-up.  The  child  is 
easier  to  manage  because  she  goes  to 
school  to  learn,  but  the  servant  covers 
her  ignorance  by  an  audacious  pertness, 
with  which  it  is  often  difficult  to  be 
patient.  She  has  been  led  to  believe 
that .  she  was  emigrating  to  an  El  Dor- 
ado and  so  she  has  no  scruples  in  de- 
manding high  wages  for  inefficient  ser- 
vice. She  does  not  reckon  with  the 
fact  that  the  average  American  woman 
has  enough  of  the  commercial  spirit  to 
demand  full  value  for  the  wages  she 
pays.  If  this  raw  product  could  only 
be  turned  over,  on  landing,  to  a  school 
of  domestic  science,  where  she  would  be 
taught  for  a  year,  free  of  charge,  what 
constitutes  efficient  household  service, 
we  would  be  nearer  to  solving  the  prob- 
lem that  is  .racking  the  nerves  of  our 
women  and  driving  them  to  seek  relief 
in  the  Apartment  House   Caf6. 

Cannot  some  philanthropist,  who  has 
at  heart  the  preservation  of  the  Amer- 
ican home,  do  something  to^improve 
this  condition  of  things?    Suppose  we 


518 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


had  a  free  School  of  Domestic  Science! 
After  the  gold  bug  had  been  operated 
upon  and  eliminated,  there  might  be  a 
kind  of  clinic,  open  to  housekeepers, 
where  they  could  study  the  proper  treat- 
ment of  stubborn  cases  under  skilled 
direction. 
All  thinking  people  feel  that  the  pre- 


servation of  the  home  is  a  vital  question 
in  our  national  life.  After  one  has 
experienced  the  peaceful  serenity  of  the 
family  life  in  England,  she  returns  to 
our  scenes  of  turmoil,  asking  herself 
this  question —  "What  can  be  done  to 
recover  our  lost  prestige  as  home  mak- 
res?" 


The  Abiding 


"Save  sacred  love  and  sacred  art 
Nothing  is  good  for  long" — 

Such  was  the  thought  a  poet  wrought 
Into  a  weft  of  song. 

"Save  sacred  love  and  sacred  art, 
Nothing  is  good  for  long" — 

What  of  the  gold  in  the  busy  mart. 
The  goal  of  a  countless  throng? — 


What  of  the  mighty  deeds  of  yore? 

Heroes  of  ages  old? 
What  of  the  ancient  thinkers'  lore? 

Fame's  tale  on  the  marbles  cold? 

Who  reatds  the  years  with  open  heart 

Finds  truth  in  the  weft  of  song: 
"Save  sacred  love  and  sacred  art, 

Nothing  is  good  for  long!" 

Arthur  Wallace  Pbach 


Placing  the  Family  Pride 

By  Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson 


IN  that  delectable  bit  of  character 
portrayed  from  the  pen  of  Kate 
Douglas  Wiggin,  where  poor,  well- 
meaning  Mrs.  Ruggles  imparts  her 
memorable  lesson  in  manners  to  the 
nine  impatient  Ruggleses,  preparatory 
to  *'  the  dinner  at  the  great  house," 
you  remember  how  the  cream  of  the 
whole  proceeding  came  to  the  top  in  the 
fond  mother's  parting  injunction  — 
*'  'n  whatever  you  do,  all  of  yer,  never 
forgit  for  one  second  that  yer  mother 
was  a  McGrill." 

It  is,  indeed,  funny.  But  human  na- 
ture and  family  pride  is  parceled  out  in 
the  most  unexpected  places. 

To  be  proud  of  one's  family  is  un- 
questionably commendable,  but  to  have 
the  support  of  the  family  name  handed 
to  us  so  often  that  we  get  to  lean  upon 


it  as  sort  of  moral  crutch  is  an  utterly 
deplorable  condition  of  affairs. 

One  of  the  most  worthless  whiffets 
I  know  is  a  victim  of  this  form  of  family 
priditis.  A  new  acquaintance  simply 
cannot  talk  to  him  for  any  length  of 
time  without  being  informed  that  his 

mother  is  of  the  old  southern  L s. 

And  no  opportunity  escapes  him  to 
ciury  favor  with  his  father's  eminent 
respectability.  Even  in  the  small  mat- 
ter of  ordering  theatre  tickets  by  tele- 
phone, it  is  his  custom  to  introduce 

himself  as  the  son  of ,  the 

broker.     His  family  tree  may  be 


a  credit  to  him,  but  he  doesn't  seem  to 
realize  what  a  tent  caterpillar  stunt  he 
is  doing  on  his  branch  of  it. 

Sir  Overbury  must  have  had  such  as 
he  in  mind  when  he  said, —  "  The  man 


PLACING  THE  FAMILY  PRIDE 


519 


who  has  not  anything  to  boast  of  but 
his  illustrious  ancestors  is  like  a  potato — 
the  only  good  belonging  to  him  is  under- 
ground/' 

Perhaps  there  is  no  more  prevalent 
mistake  we  mothers  make  than  in 
always  serving  family  pride  in  the  past 
tense.  It  is  all  very  well  to  tell,occasion- 
ally,what  a  brilliant  General  grandfather 
J was,  what  a  sparkling  conver- 
sationalist   grandma   Q- was,    and 

how  high  father  ranked  in  college,  but 
the  inevitable  outcome  of  an  overdose 
of  this  kind  results  either  in  the  child 
comparing  himself  unfavorably  with 
his  ancestors  to  his  own  belittlement 
or  else  it  leads  to  the  swell-headed  idea 
that  the  family  tree  is  full-grown  and 
will  completely  shelter  any  shady  work 
which  he  contemplates  doing. 

The  ideal  parental  attitude,  in  this 
respect,  is  one  which  calls  for  the  bal- 
anced viewpoint.  While  restraining 
green  memories  of  the  good  deeds  of 
ancestors  and  calling  attention  to  them, 
advisedly,  it  will  also  strive  to  keep 
fresh,  with  encouraging  oversight,  to- 
day's ambitions  of  each  developing 
child.  It  will  not  fail  to  inspire  the 
growing  boy  with  the  knowledge  that 
he,  here  and  now,  is  a  bearer  of  the 
family  banner,  that  he  must  face  toward 
victory  and  accomplish  greater  achieve- 
ments than  did  his  forebears.  It  will 
not  fail  to  instil  in  the  mind  of  the 
budding  girl  that  she  is  an  instrument 
of  expression,  to  grace  her  present  en- 
vironment in  a  superior  manner.  Early 
will  it  take  cognizance  of  the  unfolding 
personality  and  help  the  possessor  to 
build  constructively,  and  in  so  doing 
a  judicious  amount  of  praise,  approba- 
tion and  encouragement  will  be  found 
,to  be  the  parents'  biggest  mental  levers 
to  lift  ambition. 

Johnny  there,  wrestling  with  his 
mathematical  problems,  is  building  the 
strength  of  great  reasoning  powers. 
Our  greatest  service  is  to  see  that  he 
believes  in  himself.  Mary  here,  daily 
struggling  with  the  complexities  of  her 


music,  is  creating  tomorrow's  genius, — 
let  us  not  allow  her  to  languish  for  want 
of  vision.  They  are  lifting  newly  budded 
branches  to  the  fructifjring  powers  of 
modernity.  Let  us  speed  the  promising 
evidence  of  such  talent  with  the  warmth 
of  parental  approval.  Heredity  surges 
to  fresh  flower  in  Johnny's  and  Mary's 
individualities.  Let  us  tell  them  so, 
bearing  in  mind  that,— 

Some  approbation  now  and  then 
Works  wonders  with  our  little  men: 
And  words  of  praise  from  lips  held 

dear 
Have  often  changed  a  girl's  career. 

Make  the  child  feel  that  he  is  guardian 
of  today's  destiny,  that  a  man  rises  no 
higher  than  his  ideals,  and  that  no  one 
amounts  to  any  more  than  his  actions. 
Sustaining  ourselves  with  the  theory 
that,  if  we  want  satisfactory  results,  the 
pathway  of  youthftd  endeavor  must  not 
be  made  too  easy.  It  was  perseverance 
that  made  plastic  the  hard  conditions 
that  confronted  grandfather,  and  per- 
severance still  retains  a  Midas-like 
touch. 

You  recollect  the  story  of  Ney,  one 
of  Napoleon's  famous  marshals.  At  a 
banquet  during  the  Russian  campaign, 
a  brilliant  woman  had  been  telling  of 
her  wonderful  ancestry,  when  suddenly 
she  inquired:  "  By  the  way,  Marshal 
Ney,  who  were  your  ancestors?  " 

"  Madam,"  replied  Ney,  *'  I,  myself, 
am  an  ancestor." 

When  a  man  feels  so  proud  of  his 
ancestry  that  he  hesitates  to  bring  dis- 
honor upon  them,  it  indeed  forms  a  good 
moral  checkrein.  But  it  is  a  wise  man 
who  knows  how  to  bridle  his  vanities, 
and  most  or  us  have  occasional  need  of 
a  common-sense  martingale,  when  we 
feel  called  upon  to  parade  our  lineage. 

Yes,  family  pride  is  the  one  thing  we 
never  bury.  Let  us  chase  it  out  of  the 
cemetery  —  rehabilitate  it,  and  bring  it 
a  living,  pulsing  presence,  to  be  nurtured 
and  garmented  anew  at  the  hands  of 
today's  boys  and  girls. 


The  Value  of  Diet  Fads 

By  Jessamine  Chapman  Williams 


SURELY  yet,  perhaps,  unconsciously 
the  general  public  has  been  re- 
ceiving great  benefit  from  the 
scores  of  modem  diet  fads  that  have 
sprung  up  in  the  last  decade  or  two. 
We  may  not  be  initiated  Vegetarians, 
Fletcherites,  Pasters,  No-breakfast  Fad- 
dists, Raw  Food  Advocates  or  Low 
Protein  Scientists,  but  we  have  been 
influenced  more  or  less  by  these  diet 
reformers,  though  we  stoutly  deny 
membership  in  any  one  of  these  schools. 
We  look  at  these  diet  faddists  and  shake 
our  heads  pityingly,  but  they,  in  turn, 
go  on  working  out  their  own  salvations 
from  terrible  dietetic  troubles,  indiges- 
tion, gout  and  ntmiberless  other  dis- 
eases. 

The  majority  of  people  are  not  willing 
to  enjoy  their  food  as  Horace  Fletcher 
bids  them  do.  A  cube  of  bread  held 
in  the  mouth  as  long  as  possible  may 
taste  like  candy,  finally,  with  all  the 
starch  changed  to  sugar,  but  few  of 
us  have  the  patience  to  procure  our 
candy  that  way.  We  are  too  fond  of 
short  cuts  even  in  our  pleasures.  The 
public  will  not  all  become  Fletcherites, 
but  it  may  become  semi-followers  of 
his  cause,  because  it  has  had  its  eye 
opened  to  the  sound  physiological  prin- 
ciple of  salivary  digestion  involved 
underneath  the  exaggeration  of  this 
and  allied  theories.  The  volume  that 
has  been  written  about  American  rush 
and  hurry  and  its  injurious  effects 
has  touched  all  phases  of  our  lives. 
Horace  Fletcher  attempts  a  reform 
of  one  phase,  namely,  our  hurried  man- 
ner of  firing  the  human  machine.  If 
we  aren't  willing  to  give  an  hour  to 
the  constmiption  of  a  meal,  we  may 
agree  to  spend  half  that  time,  which 
is  infinitely  better  than  the  former  ten 
minutes.     The    pubUc    has    been    in- 


fluenced  to  use  greater  care  in  the  masti- 
cation of  food  and  Fletcher  deserves 
our  gratitude  for  his  service. 

While  Fletcherism  may  be  one  method 
of  correcting  our  dietetic  errors,  another 
holds  up  to  us  fasting  as  the  only  way 
to  eradicate  our  troubles.  We  are 
told  to  go  six  or  eight  days  without 
food  when  suffering  from  dietetic  dis- 
orders, then  gradually  come  back  to 
a  restricted  diet,  beginning  with  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  milk  and  increasing 
the  quantity  until  the  digestive  appara- 
tus is  able  to  take  care  of  the  average 
amount  of  food  again.  The  theory 
is  that  the  digestive  system,  like  an 
engine,  has  been  clogged  by  dinkers. 
and  needs  a  rest  and  a  chance  to  be 
cleaned  out  and  oiled  up.  No  fuel 
must  be  given  it  until  it  has  been  re- 
paired; it  must  not  even  run  on  half 
time.  Few  people  are  ready  to  adopt 
such  strenuous  measures  to  correct  any 
dietetic  error  and  even  prefer  the  dis- 
ease to  the  cure.  Yet,  this  theory  of 
fasting  has  created  interest  and  dis- 
cussion to  the  extent  that  less  food  is 
advocated  as  a  relief  for  many  of  our 
common  aches  and  pains.  The  belief 
is  now  that  we  are  overfed  rather  than 
underfed. 

In  line  with  the  fasting  theory  is  the 
No-Breakfast  Fad.  The  man  who  ate 
a  hearty  breakfast  of  fried  potatoes, 
sausage  and  fat  gravy,  buckwheat  cakes, 
butter  and  maple  syrup,  coffee  with 
cream  and  sugar  may  now  be  an  advo- 
cate of  the  no-breakfast  plan  and  feel 
rejuvenated.  These  are  the  extremes 
of  the  case.  However,  the  Americans* 
idea  of  breakfast  is  changing  and  becom- 
ing more  like  the  continental  breakfast — 
a  roll  and  weak  tea  or  coffee  —  or  a 
light  cereal  and  fruit  substituted  for 
the   former   three   course   breakfast   of 


520 


THE   VALUE   OF   DIET   PADS 


521 


fruit,  cereal,  meat,  eggs,  hot  breads 
and  coffee.  The  public  will  always 
act  as  a  balance.  The  custom  for 
generations  of  taking  breakfast  will 
not  be  overturned  completely,  but  it 
will  be  modified  with  changed  conditions 
of  life.  Few  advocate  no  breakfast; 
all  will  agree  to  lighten  it. 

The  attempt  of  Prof.  Chittenden  to 
prove  a  great  waste  of  protein  and  total 
amotmt  of  energy  in  otir  food  consump- 
tion has  been  a  true  benefit  to  the  world. 
The  statement  that  a  person  may  live 
on  half  the  amount  of  nitrogen  given 
by   other   authorities,    without   loss   of 
body  weight  and  with  improved  health, 
has    created    world-wide    interest    and 
brought  investigations  along  the  same 
lines.     Prof.     Chittenden's    experiment 
with  United  States  soldiers  gave  con-, 
elusions  from  body  weight  alone  which 
can    only    be    extremely    rough.     The 
majority    of    scientists    and    therefore 
the  average  layman  hesitates  to   adopt 
seriously   for   the   remainder   of   life   a 
diet  as  low  in  protein  and  total  energy 
as    Prof.    Chittenden't    standard,    but 
many  agree  to  a  compromise,  splitting 
the   difference  between  50  grams  and 
125  gfams  of  protein  daily  and    feeling 
there  is  safety  in  such.     By  so  doing, 
the  terrible  evils  resultant  from  over- 
taxing the  organs  of  elimination, —  gout, 
rheumatism,   diabetes,   obesity  and  all 
the   kidney   diseases   may   possibly   be 
overcome,    and    no  *  enfeebling    of    our 
bodies,  physically  or  mentally,  can  result 
from   the   half   way   standpoint   taken. 
Here   again  the   general   public  is   the 
balance  wheel  in  its  slowness  to  adopt 
extremes,  yet  reaping  the  real  benefit 
by  taking  the  middle  ground. 

No  doubt  that  the  patient  and  untir- 
ing investigations  regarding  the  meta- 
bolism of  purins  has  led  a  few  to  adopt 
a  strict  non-purin  diet, —  no  meat  or 
anything  much,  but  the  "hay*'  in  our 
diet.  Until  the  public  has  definite 
proof  of  its  ruin,  it  will  continue  to 
cater  somewhat  to  its  natural  appetites 
regarding   piuins;   it   will   continue   to 


exercise  common  sense;  strike  a  happy 
mean  in  their  use,  and  go  on  living 
cheerfully. 

Just  where  the  Vegetarian  theory 
belongs  for  any  sort  of  discussion  is 
hard  to  determine.  If  the  consistent 
vegetarian  makes  the  question  a  moral 
one  —  the  shedding  of  any  blood  a 
down-right  crime  —  the  matter  is  one 
of  ethics  and  not  of  science.  One  may 
believe  anything  he  chooses.  No  one 
has  ever  doubted  the  fact  that  life 
can  be  supported  on  a  strict  vegetarian 
diet, —  and  also  on  a  strict  animal  diet. 
This,  history  has  proved  often  enough. 
That  our  modem  dietetic  evils  can  be 
corrected  in  other  ways  than  by  adopt- 
ing vegetarianism  is  obvious.  The  pub- 
lic will  adopt  neither  extreme  exclusively, 
but  use  the  theories  of  vegetarians  to 
teach  a  common-sense  lesson  —  a  wise 
and  judicious  mixture  of  the  two  classes 
of  food. 

There  are  various  modifications  or 
restrictions  in  vegetarianism.  A  few 
well-preserved,  healthy-appearing  indi- 
viduals rise  up  now  and  then  claiming 
their  health  and  happiness  to  be  due 
to  a  diet  of  fruit  and  nuts  alone.  Most 
of  us  believe  that  they  have  health 
in  spite  of  this  erratic  diet.  To  be 
sure  a  balanced  diet  can  be  obtained, 
using  these  foods  alone,  but  it  requires 
more  thought  and  study  to  get  the 
necessary  tissue-building  and  energy 
requirement  than  the  average  person 
will  undertake,  and  all  for  what!  The 
advocates  on  an  exclusive  fruit-and-nut 
diet  have  given  us  valuable  suggestions, 
however,  for  using  fruits  and  nuts 
in  our  menus  to  a  greater  extent, 
thus  correcting  some  evils, —  a  lack 
of  mineral  salts,  of  cellulose,  and  per- 
haps too  much  meat.  The  obsese  and 
•certain  dyspeptics  who  have  turned 
to  the  **grape  cure"  for  relief  from  their 
ills  were  not  benefitted  by  the  grapes 
they  ate  as  much  as  by  the  necessary 
exercise  involved  in  gathering  the  grapes. 
The  average  working  man  doesn't  need 
a  grape  cure,  but  to  the  gouty  million- 


522 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


aire  it  may  have  a  real  value. 

One  general  cry  (perhaps  it  has 
originated  with  too  busy  housekeepers) 
has  been  that  we  spend  far  too  much 
time  and  thought  in  the  cooking  of 
food.  Why  spend  hours  in  cooking 
a  dinner  when  we  can  enjoy  equally 
well  a  meal  of  raw  foods  —  a  cube  or 
two  of  nutose  or  a  similar  compoimd 
equal  to  a  pound  of  beefsteak,  a  saucer 
of  raw  grains  finely  ground,  a  bean 
biscuit  or  two  baked  in  the  sun,  and  a 
handful  of  oily  nuts  and  some  fruit. 
Such  a  diet  would  certainly  prevent 
our  spending  much  thought  on  our  food, 
and  our  time  might  be  free  for  other 
things  than  cooking.  But  what  of 
our  digestion?  ''Flavor  is  to  the  man 
what  oil  is  to  the  machinery  of  an 
engine.'*  Without  flavor  as  a  stimu- 
lant to  the  fl^ow  of  digestive  juices, 
digestion  is  upset.  The  bran  of  grains 
can  hardly  be  said  to  possess  much 
flavor.  But  the  Raw  Food  Club  has 
benefitted  the  public  by  warning  it 
of  the  danger  of  becoming  too  epicurean 
in  its  tastes  and  advocating  one  phase 
of  simpler  living. 

Why  not  adopt  as  a  simpler  diet  still, 
a  milk  diet,  and  take  two  or  three 
quarts  a  day  to  give  the  necessary 
food  value?  Nature  has  provided  this 
food  for  the  infant.  Why  not  for 
the  man?  Its  ease  of  digestion  and 
absorption  makes  it  valuable  for  the 
weakest  digestive  apparatus.  But  the 
majority  of  people  never  would  accept 
this  diet  and  there  is  a  reason  for 
their  refusal.  A  milk  diet  contains 
too  much  protein  in  proportion  to  the 
carbohydrates  and  fats  for  an  adult, 
but  this  property  renders  it  most  desir- 
able for  the  growing  child.  It  also 
lacks  iron  for  the  adult,  while  the 
quantity  proves  sufficient  for  the  in-» 
fant  who  starts  life  with  an  extra 
supply  of  iron  stored  in  the  liver. 

The  advocators  of  an  exclusive  milk 
diet  have  succeeded  thus  far  in  a  diet 
reform.  They  have  shown  the  pubhc 
that  milk  for  the  adult  even,  is  a  food 


and  not  a  drink  to  be  poiu'ed  down 
as  water,  with  the  same  amount  of 
food  besides.  A  glass  of  milk  is  more 
than  equal  to  an  egg  in  heat  and  energy. 
The  business  man  may  cheerfully  choose 
a  lunch  of  bread  and  milk,  in  preference 
to  meat  and  potatoes,  and  find  he 
is  as  well  nourished. 

There  are  adherents  to  a  salt-free 
diet,  and  to  diets  without  other  con- 
diments and  spices.  Their  belief  is 
that  we  use  condiments  to  cover  up 
the  real  flavor  of  food  and  to  disguise 
tainted  food;  that  they  irritate  the 
delicate  lining  of  our  digestive  tract, 
interfere  with  the  natural  flavor  of 
digestive  juices  and  are  "heating  to 
the  blood.'*  Blame  is  often  put  upon 
the  poor  spices  used  in  French  cooking, 
while  if  should  rest  upon  the  putrefy- 
ing or  stale  foods  used  in  the  compli- 
cated mixtures.  If  spices  are  heating 
to  the  blood,  why  do  people  living  in 
the  tropics  use  them  so  freely  and 
actually  crave  them?  Woods  Hutchin- 
son explains  this  by  the  fact  that 
they  are  excellent  antiseptics,  pre- 
venting putrefaction  and  fermentation 
of  food  in  the  digestive  track  and  hence 
of  great  value  in  the  tropics  where 
foods  spoil  so  easily. 

That  refreshing,  innocent,  salad  vege- 
table —  the  tomato  —  was  once  con- 
sidered absolutely  poisonous,  and  even 
now  is  believed  by  some  to  cause  can- 
cer and  aggravate  rheumatism.  Pork, 
including  ham  and  bacon,  because  of 
its  slowness  of  digestion,  has  been 
put  to  the  very  bottom  of  the  list 
of  digestibilities.  As  a  matter  of  fact 
slowness  in  digestion  is  not  synony- 
mous with  indigestion  and  the  dys- 
pepsia experienced  is  often  due  to 
the  mixture  we  put  with  the  pork. 
It  isn't  the  pork  that  makes  one  shake 
the  head  when  "pork  and  beans" 
are  mentioned.  It  is  the  toxic  prin- 
ciple hidden  in  the  protein  of  the  bean 
that  is  the  offender,  while  the  poor 
pork  is  only  an  observer  of  the  trouble, 
as  Woods  Hutchinson  says. 


THE  VALUE  OF  DIET  FADS 


523 


The  public  has  been  deluged  with 
breakfast  foods,  health  foods,  predi- 
gested  and  patent  foods.  Their  food 
value  has  been  praised  to  the  skies 
and  some  people  have  become  suscepti- 
ble to  their  pretentious  charms.  All 
of  us  wotdd  needs  be  expert  food-chem- 
ists, physiologists,  doctors  and  diete- 
tians  to  be  able  to  weed  out  the  few 
that  are  good  from  the  host  of  bad. 
The  safest  rule  to  adopt,  in  judging,  is 
to  remember  that  no  plain,  whole- 
some untampered-with  food  requires 
advertising.  It  is  only  those  whose 
virtues  are  doubtful  that  have  to  be 
urged  upon  the  public.  The  plain 
cereal  grains  from  which  the  host  of 
breakfast  foods  are  made  contain  all 
the  food  properties  of  the  manufactured 
cereals  and  are  infinitely  cheaper  and 
safer  than  after  their  passage  through 
the  secret  maneuvers  of  the  cereal 
and  healthfood  manufacturer. 

Why  take  our  phosporous  and  casein 
in  the  form  of  "Sanatogen,"  or  our 
bicarbonate,  of  soda  and  caseins  in 
"Plasmon"  or  **Nutrose*'  or  our  am- 
monium casein  in  "Eucasein",  when 
we  can  get  these  in  plain  milk  at  one- 
tenth  the  cost?  Why  not  take  our 
iron,  phosporous,  and  other  salts  in 
the  form  most  completely  absorbed, — 
namely,  in  the  organic  combinations 
found  in  our  foods?  The  very  pro- 
duction of  these  patented  foods  has 
acted  as  a  warning  to  the  public.  As  a 
resxilt,  pure  food  laws  have  been  evolved 
and  the  secrets  of  these  concoctions 
exposed.     For  the  normal,  healthy  in- 


dividual the  whole  category  of  patented, 
predigested,  and  all  health  foods  can 
be  swept  away  as  useless;  for  the  patho- 
logical condition  of  the  digestive  organs, 
let  the  physician  prescribe.  Disastrous 
results  of  experimenting  blindly  have 
been  warnings  to  us. 

No  one  diet  system  or  fad  will  ever 
supercede  our  natiu'al  instincts  com- 
pletely. One  and  all  of  these  fads  have 
acted,  however,  as  checks  and  guides 
to  our  natural  instincts  and  in  such 
capacities  have  been  of  real  value  in 
keeping  a  balance. 

With  the  warnings  received  from 
the  no-breakfast  and  the  fasting"  fad- 
dist we  will  use  more  discretion  ^per- 
haps in  the  quantity  of  food  we  are 
consuming.  With  Horace  Fletcher,  to 
continually  remind  us  of  the  errors 
of  bolting  our  food  and  the  benefits 
received  from  chewing  patiently  until 
each  mouthfxil  is  swallowed  involun- 
tarily, we  may  overcome  one  of  the 
evils  of  our  American  life  —  its  ever- 
lasting rush.  With  the  evils  of  exces- 
sive meat  eating  shown  us  by  vegetarians 
and  the  low  protein  and  non-purin  diet 
advocates  it  is  possible  that  the  meat- 
three-times-a-day  habit  may  become 
a  more  sensible  one  —  a  diet  of  meat 
once  a  day.  The  fruit  and  nut  and 
raw  food  faddists  are  teaching  us  a 
lesson  in  simplicity  of  living.  Thus, 
while  we  may  not  be  initiated  members 
of  some  diet  reform,  we  are  reaping 
the  real  benefits  of  all  and  go  on  liv- 
ing cheerfully  with  our  eyes  opened  by 
the  diet  extremist. 


A  Modem  Valentine 


You  are  to  me  a  guiding  star! 
I'll  buy  for  you  a  motor  car; 
A  cot,  with  roses  all  atwine. 
At  Newport,  watts  my  valentine. 


ril  deck  you  with  a  sealskin  coat, 
To  wear  whene'er  you  po  to  vote; 
A  diamond  pendant  shall  be  thine, 
If  you  will  be  my  valentine. 

N.  F    MlLBLRN 


A  Side  Light  on  the  High  Cost  of  Living 


By  Alice  M.  Chalmers 


WHAT  have  you  planned  for  des- 
sert tonight,  Betty?"  asked 
the  thrifty  housewife,  as  her 
daughter-in-law  came  into  the  kitchen 
carrying  fat,  laughing,  two-year-old 
Bobby,  pink  and  warm  from  his  bath. 

"Oh,  some  jello  with  bananas  and 
nuts  will  be  nice  I  guess,"  laughed 
Betty,  tumbling  Bobby  into  his  buggy 
and  pushing  back  the  curls  from  her 
pretty,  flushed  face. 

**But,"  protested  the  thrifty  house- 
ivife,  ** jello  is  so  expensive  with  fruit 
and  nuts,  and  I  notice  there  is  some 
stale  bread  in  the  pantry  that  I  might 
just  as  well  as  not  use  in  a  nice  bread 
pudding."  Betty  had  thought  that  same 
bread  wotdd  make  croutons  for  the  soup 
that  night,  but  mother  had  come  for 
a  visit  from  the  farm  and  had  only  been 
in  town  a  few  days,  so  she  called  back 
gaily  as  she  wheeled  Bobby  into  the 
simny  bay  window,  "All  right  mother, 
just  make  anything  you  Hke." 

"Dear,  dear!"  sighed  the  thrifty  one, 
"how  extravagant  some  people  are. 
That  comes  of  taking  one's  housework 
so  lightly." 

That  night  at  dinner  the  bread  pud- 
ding made  its  appearance.  The  thrifty 
housewife  explained  how  easy  it  was 
to  save  little  things  in  simple  ways. 

"What's  in  the  scrap  bag,  mother," 
inquired  the  man,  better  known  as  Bob- 
by's dad,  catching  his  wife's  laughing 
eye. 

"There  are  two  eggs,  —  I  only  use 
two,"  she  explained  proudly,  "a  little 
milk,  some  raisins,  sugar,  cinnamon,  and 
the  bread,  and  you  see  it  makes  a  nice 
economical  dessert." 

"Let  me  see,"  the  man  answered 
gravely,  "how  much  milk  and  raisins 
mother?" 

"Just  a  mite  of  milk,  about  a  quart. 


and  half  a  box  of  raisins." 

"Two  eggs,"  the  man  continued,  "at 
seventy  five  cents  a  dozen  —  say  twelve 
cents  —  a  half-box  of  raisins,  five  cents 
—  a  quart  of  milk,  ten  cents  —  sugar, 
cinnamon,  and  the  rest  —  surely  not  less 
than  three  cents,  that's  thirty  cents,  at 
least.  Not  such  a  cheap  pudding,  is  it 
mother?" 

"Thirty  cents!"  exclaimed  the  thrifty 
housewife  blankly,  "but,"  her  face 
brightening,  "you  must  remember,  we 
had  all  the  things  in  the  house  and  it 
was  such  a  shame  to  waste  that  bread." 

The  man  laughed,  Betty  thought  witli 
glee  of  the  expensive  jello,  while  Bobb>' 
in  his  high  chair  smiled  wisely,  as  if 
forseeing  the  improvements  which  his 
generation  would  'no  doubt  be  respon- 
sible  for. 

And  so  it  must  always  be.  There 
will  always  remain  remnants  of  past 
customs  and  ideas  handed  down  and 
kept,  because  habit  is  so  hard  to  break, 
even  when  one  knows  a  better  way. 
There  is  yet  abroad  not  a  little  of  the 
so-called  economy  which  consists  of  pre- 
paring every  little  part  of  all  food  at  home, 
when  it  is  an  open  secret  that  it  can  be 
obtained  already  prepared,  cheaper  and 
more  wholesome.  There  is  another  fal- 
lacy called  economy  which  consists  of 
"using  everything  up,"  when  the  using 
really  means  a  larger  expenditure  and 
smaller  returns.  The  only  real  economy 
is  in  no  waste  and  the  greatest  possible 
value  for  money  expended.  There  is 
no  economy  in  using  thrity  cents  worth 
of  ingredients  to  dispose  of  three  cents 
worth  of  bread,  unless  the  product  of 
such  combination  be  especially  desirable. 

The  old  idea  of  making  things  at  home, 
regardless  of  cost,  nutritive  value,  or 
anything  else,  because  it  is  extravagant 
to  buy  canned  or  otherwise  prepared 


,524 


A  SIDE  LIGHT  ON  THE  HIGH  COST  OP  LIVING. 


525 


food,  should  surely  be  obsolete  now, 
but  facts  hardly  point  that  way.  In- 
stead, there  are  a  large  number  of  women 
yet  who  insist  that  such  things  repre- 
sent the  ultimatum  of  waste  and  shif t- 
lessness.  One  woman  with  a  family  of 
three  actually  shuddered  when  I  sug- 
gested that  Campbeirs  tomato  soup 
was  the  most  nourishing  and  economical 
of  soups.  She  declared  that  people  now- 
a-days  thought  of  nothing  but  saving 
work.  She  always  opened  a  can  of 
tomatoes,  made  a  white  sauce,  and  then 
stood  over  it  while  it  thickened,  watch- 
ing it  carefully  to  see  that  it  did  not 
curdle.  When  finished,  the  soup  cost, 
at  lowest  estimate,  as  much  as  the  other 
and  contained  no  stock,  thereby  de- 
creasing its  food- value;  and  beside  all 
this   her  family  preferred  the  other! 

In  a  similar  way  I  have  heard  all 
prepared  foods  rejected.  "Canned  to- 
mato sauce!  Mercy,  what  next?"  I 
heard  one  disgusted  woman  say  in  a 
little  town  grocery,  as  she  scornfully 
rejected  the  five-cent  can  of  sauce,  and 
went  out  the  door  with  a  neighbor,  com- 
plaining to  her  of  the  high  cost  of  living 
and  her  own  overworked  condition,  all 
in  the  same  breath. 

Women  who  make  griddle  cakes  for 
breakfast  often  pass  by  the  prepared 
flour,  which  costs  perhaps  five  cents  a 
meal  for  cakes,  and  stand  beating  eggs, 
at  five  cents  a  piece,  for  the  cakes  which 
their  families  confide  to  each  other  on 
the  sly  aren't  half  so  good  as  Aunt 
Jemima's.  The  poor  woman  must  need 
get  up  fifteen  minutes  earlier  in  the 
morning  and  be  fifteen  minutes  more 
tired  at  night,  but  see  how  worth  while 
it  is,  when  they  can  do  all  the  cooking 
and  not  be  the  victims  of  absurd,  new- 
fangled ideas! 

One  woman  I  know,  living  in  Cali- 
fornia where  there  is  almost  always  an 


abundance  of  fresh  fruit,  decided  she 
must  make  jelly.  She  had  all  she  could 
do  without  this  extra  work,  but  you  see 
she  had  made  up  her  mind.  When  she 
had  finished  her  jelly-making,  I  just 
counted  the  cost.  The  jelly  had  cost 
her,  as  near  as  I  cotdd  estimate,  eleven 
cents  a  glass,  while  in  the  stores  delicious 
products  of  the  same  flavors  could  be 
purchased  for  ten!  Of  course  she  con- 
tended that  it  was  impossible  for  the 
other  to  be  as  good  as  hers,  and  only 
after  I  had  slipped  a  glass  of  it  in  with 
hers  and  she  had  used  it  without  detect- 
ing the  difference,  would  she  admit 
that  perhaps  the  wholesaler  was  able 
to  make- things  cheaper  than  the  little 
individual  manufacturer. 

There  are  long,  long  lists  of  things 
which  save  time  and  money,  because 
they  do  away  with  waste  and  give  the 
greatest  returns  for  the  money  expended. 
Besides  the  soups,  fruits  and  sauces, 
there  is  the  canned  pumpkin,  which 
costs  one-fourth  the  time  and  effort 
that  the  whole  pimipkin  did,  when  one 
is  making  the  popular  pumpkin  pie; 
there  is  good  mince  meat  which  serves 
the  same  purpoes  that  ones  own  does 
and  pleases  the  family  just  as  well. 
Komlet,  at  twenty  five  cents  a  can,  goes 
much  further  than  com  and  eliminates 
the  tedious  operation  of  putting  com 
through  a  colander  for  the  soup.  A 
thousand  and  one  things  there  are,  all 
designed  to  save  time  and  money,  for 
the  big  factory  works  more  economically 
than  the  little  house.  Must  then  this 
march  of  progress  pass  by  and  leave  un- 
touched the  self-cfidled  conservative  wo- 
man, who,  overworked  and  with  no 
leisiu'e  for  study  or  enjoyment,  reject- 
ing the  short  cuts  and  clinging  to  her 
false  standards  of  economy,  raises  in- 
stead of  lowers  the  cost  of  living?  Let 
us  keep  informed  of  modem  processes. 


526 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


THK 

BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE 


OF 


Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics 


Subscription  $1.00  per  Year  Single  Copies,  10c 
Foreign  Postage  :  To  Canada,  20c  per  Year 
To  OTHER  Foreign  Countries,  40c  per  Year 

TO  SUBSCRIBERS 

The  date  stamped  on  the  wrapper  is  the  date 
on  which  your  subscription  expires;  it  is,  also,  an 
acknowledgment  that  a  subscription^  or  a  renewal 
of  the  same,  has  been  received. 

Please  renew  on  receipt  of  the  colored  blank 
enclosed  for  this  purpose. 

In  sending  notice  to  renew  a  subscription  or 
change  of  address,  please  g^ve  the  old  address 
as  well  as  the  neto. 

In  referring  to  an  original  entry,  we  must  know 
the  name  as  it  was  formerly  g^ven,  together  with 
the  Post-office,  County,  State,  Post-office  Box, 
or  Street  Number. 

SiaUnufU  of  turner  ship  attd  manaetmtnt  as  rtfuirtd  by 
tJks  Act  0/  Congress  of  August  24, 191M, 

Editor:  Janet  M.  Hill. 
Business  Managers :  R.  B.  Hill,  B.  M.  Hill. 

Owners : 
B.  M.  Hill,  Janet  M.  Hill,  R.  B.  Hill. 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 
'*       published  ten  times  a  year  by 
The  Boston  Cooking- School  Magazine  Co., 
372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

Bktkbed  at  Bovroir  PoffT-orrici  am  SioowD-CLAn  Mattbb 


ENCOURAGEMENT 

IN  no  way  can  our  subscribers  man- 
ifest their  appreciation  and  encour- 
agement, and  really  aid  us  so  much,  as 
in  renewing  their  subscriptions  promptly 
dtiring  the  month  in  which  it  expires. 
The  conditions  of  publication  are  such, 
at  present,  that  all  subscriptions  to 
periodicals  must  be  paid  in  advance, 
and  all  renewals  must  be  made  practi- 
cally at  the  date  of  the  expiring  sub- 
scription. 

We  are  just  in  receipt  of  a  letter 
from  a  lady  who  says,  "My  subscrip- 
tion to  the  Cooking-School  Magazine 
expires  this  month  and  I  am  renewing 
it,  as  I  do  not  wish  to  miss  a  number  of 
the  journal.  To  make  sure,  I  might 
as  well  accept  your  general  offer  and 


enclose  three  dollars  to  renew  for  four 
years."  We  are  always  glad  to  comply 
with  requests  like  this,  for  it  eb'minates 
a  great  deal  of  both  extra  work  and 
expense.  Our  method  is  to  win  out 
by  avoiding  all  unnecessary  waste  and 
expense,  and  to  use  every  available 
resoiu"ce  in  improving  the  quality  of 
our  publication. 

Like  other  publishers,  we  are  anxious 
to  retain  our  old  subscribers  as  well  as 
to  secure  new  ones.  We  are  equally 
anxious  to  avoid  annoying  them  by 
frequent  and  undue  solicitations  to  re- 
new. 

Kindly,  then,  renew  promptly  by 
use  of  the  formal  blank  provided  you 
for  this  purpose.  We  propose  to  give 
you  in  each  issue  full  measiu"e  of  the 
best  and  most  helpful  material  we  can 
possibly  procure.  We  are  making  pre- 
paration to  enlarge  the  scope  and  useful- 
ness of  the  magazine. 

CHEERFULNESS 

THE  cheerful  habit  is  an  asset  for 
any  one,  and  the  want  of  it 
may  be  a  liability.  A  good  laugh  is 
better  than  a  doctor's  tonic.  Cheerful, 
hopeful  people  invite  rather  than  repel 
the  confidence  of  others.  The  cheerful 
home  is  always  the  source  of  wholesome, 
inspiring  influences. 

A  chief  condition  of  cheerfulness,  it 
seems,  is  good  health.  Hence  the  desir- 
ability of  guarding  well  and  building  up 
by  every  means  this  main  source  of  our 
wellbeing.  Today  in  the  home,  the 
school,  and  other  meeting-places,  san- 
itary ways  are  considered  of  far  greater 
importance  than  ever  in  the  past.  The 
modem  school-house  is  built  on  quite 
different  plans  than  the  old  red  school- 
house  of  fifty  years  ago.  Epidemics 
and  disorders  are  traced  to  their  sotirces 
and  these  are  destroyed  or  removed. 
It  follows,  that  the  remedy  of  most  ills 
is  educational  in  nature.  Reforms  are 
brought  about  by  spreading  knowledge 
abroad.  "Ye  shall  know  the  truth,  and 
the  truth  shall  make  you  free." 


EDITORIALS 


527 


Another  condition  of  cheerful  living 
is  a  bit  of  prosperity  in  our  daily  occupa- 
tion or  calling.  These  who  achieve 
success  are  known  to  be  active,  almost 
restless,  in  the  pursuit  of  chosen  enter- 
prises. To  energize  is  to  be  happy; 
and  long  continued,  earnest  concen- 
tration of  eflEort  is  sure  to  bring  fitting 
reward.  An  air  of  prosperity  makes 
any  spot  attractive;  it  alone  insures  the 
happy  home  and  renders  life  tolerable. 
We  can  await  opportunities  for  improve- 
ment, but  thriftiness  and  sure  good  lies 
in  the  way  of  doing  with  our  might  the 
"work  that  is  nearest  at  hand.  Of  pros- 
perity some  one  has  said: 

"When  farmers  are  making  money; 
when  factories  are  getting  a  fair  return 
for  their  commodities;  when  railroads 
receive  a  just  return  for  the  one  thing 
they  have  to  sell,  that  is  transportation; 
when  the  iron-mills  have  orders  ahead, 
and  rails  are  being  produced  at  a  profit, 
then  we  are  all  prosperous.'* 

Breath  deep,  exercise  freely,  be  dil- 
igent in  business  and  keep  cheerful. 

FADS  AND  FANCIES 

THIS  journal  never  caters  to  sensa- 
sational  fads  and  fancies.  It  holds 
no  patent  right  on  manufactured  food- 
stuffs; nor  does  it  claim  to  have  insti- 
tuted any  great  reforms  in  household 
management.  It  aims  simply  .to  aid 
the  average  housekeeper  in  making  the 
most  of  conditions  as  they  now  are, 
with  a  view  always  to  making  gains  or 
betterments. 

Occasionally  we  are  criticised,  un- 
justly we  think,  for  giving  too  much 
attention  to  fancy  dishes;  and  yet  in  sea- 
son and  out  we  are  constantly  inculcating 
and  insisting  on  the  desirability  of 
knowing  how  to  manipulate  the  plainest 
bills  of  fare.  For  plain  living,  we  think, 
conduces  to  economy,  thrift,  health  and 
longevity. 

Some  housewives  seem  desirous  to 
live  at  the  least  possible  expense;  others 
to  do  the  least  possible  amount  of  work; 
still  othets  are  insistently  seeking  for 


something  new,  something  a  little  out 
of  the  ordinary,  for  the  table.  Each  of 
these  clasess  represents  a  rather  difficult 
proposition,  in  these  days.  The  exer- 
cise of  individual  taste  and  choice  is  the 
great  prerogative  of  us  all. 

Our  purpose  is  to  neglect  or  pass  by 
nothing  that  can  be  of  interest  or  useful- 
ness to  our  readers.  Experience  teaches 
us,  however,  that  nothing  really  good 
can  be  done  in  any  situation  without  a 
proper  expenditure  of  time,  labor,  even 
hard  work,  and,  oftentimes,  money. 
In  culinary  and  household  matters, 
especially,  time  and  labor  often  are 
productive  of  better  results  than  those 
that  are  gained  by  the  lavish  use  of 
money.  Here,  as  elsewhere,  thought 
and  effort  are  essential  to  the  best 
achievement 

''EFFICIENCY''— FOR  WHAT? 

EVERY  day  has  its  pet  word  — 
and  to-day's  is  * 'efficiency."  For 
some  time  past  the  educational  journals 
and  the  educational  conventions  have 
made  efficiency  their  key-note.  Even 
the  New  England  Association  of  Col- 
leges and  Preparatory  Schools  gave 
the  main  session  of  its  last  meeting 
to   addresses   on   measuring  efficiency. 

In  the  mill-room  and  the  machine 
shop,  efficiency  is  a  clean  cut  idea. 
It  is  defined  as  sharply  as  velocity  or 
friction.  It  means  the  ratio  of  result 
to  effort,  of  accomplishment  to  energy 
expended.  It  is  a  merit  of  machines 
and  machine-like  operators. 

But  in  all  our  talk  of  efficiency  as 
the  aim  of  education,  as  the  measure 
of  a  man's  worth,  as  the  test  of  social 
ways  and  means,  the  enlarged  meaning 
we  give  the  term  is  not  clean  cut;  it 
eludes  definition.  It  blurs  the  engineer's 
idea  —  the  ratio  of  work  performed 
to  energy  consumed  —  with  untech- 
nical  ideas  older  than  Solomon  and  his 
proverbs.  In  fact,  oiu:  recent  outcry 
for  efficiency  is  due,  one-tenth,  to  what 
efficiency  means,  and,  nine-tenths,  to 
less  formal  virtues  confounded  with  it. 


528 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING^CHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Whatever  may '  be  true  in  applied 
mechanics,  we  ought  to  see  that  in 
homes  and  schools  and  in  all  places 
where  men's  rights  and  duties  coimt 
for  more  than  guages  and  meters  and 
time-keepers'  sheets,  we  can  never  sat- 
isfy ourselves  with  mere  efficiency. 
Of  course,  teachers  must  show  their 
pupils  how  to  study  to  best  effect, 
and  domestic  scientists  must  show 
incipient  housekeepers  how  to  save 
their  motions  and  materials.  But  the 
real  leaders  of  thought,  the  guides  of 
public  opinion,  ought  now  to  fix  for 
us  more  urgently  than  ever  those  aims 
on  which  our  efficiency  should  tell. 
For  while  efficiency,  so  far  as  under- 
stood, is  a  stirring  cry,  yet  broad  out- 
looks on  truth,  appreciations  of  art 
and  nature,  friendly  affections  for  one's 
kind,  a  steady  will  to  serve  many  people, 
these  are  surer  means  of  satisfaction 
than  all  the  records  at  piecework,  sales- 
manship  and   business   organization. 

It  takes  a  wise  man  to  distinguish 
ideas  that  tell  how  things  should  be 
done  from  ideas  that  teU  what  things 
are  worth  the  doing.  Many  of  our 
educators  would  do  well  to  see  that 
of  all  ideas  that  recommend  a  manner, 
efficiency  is  probably  the  most  formal 
and  empty.  —  The  Herald. 

A  GIRL'S  PHILOSOPHY. 

WHETHER  one  believes  or  not  in 
a  deity,  it  is  always  safe  to  trust 
in  the  power  of  Good.  Good  is  the 
positive  force  that  rules  the  imi verse; 
and,  no  matter  how  many  million  years 
may  be  consumed  in  the  process  of 
reaching  it,  the  tendency  of  everything 
is  toward  the  Best. 

Evil  is  negative,  the  misuse  of  the 
power  for  good  with  which  man  is  en- 
dowed. It  is  misplaced  force,  as  dirt 
is  misplaced  matter.  If  it  acts  as  a 
hindrance  to  progress,  it  is  eventually 
overcome.  It  is  the  duty  of  every 
man  to  join  forces  with  the  Good.  Small 
as  any  one  may  be,  he  can  do  his  share 
of  the  work  of  betterment.    Each  man's 


share  is  the  best  that  he  can  make  of 
his  life. 

A  life  is  made  up  of  deeds,  as  time 
is  made  up  of  fractions  of  seconds. 
Deeds  are  the  outcome  of  thoughts; 
each  act  is  the  direct  consequence  of 
a  motive.  If  we  keep  our  thoughts 
good,  our  minds  will  habitually  give 
rise  to  good  motives  and  so  to  good 
deeds. 

The  attitude  of  heart  that  keeps 
otir  minds  in  the  most  ideal  condition 
is  the  attitude  of  love  —  towards  every- 
body and  everything.  The  action  that 
is  prompted  by  love  will  prove  to  be 
the  kind  action,  the  most  beneficent 
in  result.  When  evil  seems  to  us  to 
follow  an  act  meant  in  kindness,  it  is 
because  our  eyes  are  not  far-seeing 
enough,  —  our  minds  not  sharply  enough 
trained  in  our  faith  —  to  discern  the 
actual  result. 

Even  though  we  may  not  be  per- 
mitted this  view  of  remote  consequences, 
we  may  rest  assured  that,  with  some 
good  in  ever)rthing,  the  better  the  motive 
the  greater  the  ultimate  gain  to  the 
individual,  the  race,  the  world,  and 
the  infinitude  beyond.  So,  then,  we 
can  guage  our  actions  by  the  unselfish- 
ness of  the  motives  that  prompt  them. 
Should  we  chance  to  forget  and  fall 
away  from  the  principle,  when  we 
come  back  to  it,  as  we  needs  must,  it 
will  be  found  unchanged  and  ready 
for  us. 

If  the  world  seems  sordid,  sometimes, 
and  our  eyes  tire  of  straining  toward 
so  high  a  goal,  we  find  that  the  cul- 
tivation of  that  spirit  of  love  relieves 
the  strain,  and  the  world  is  made 
brighter  for  us  and  for  all  men. 

This  faith,  held  to,  is  fatal  to  "moods" 
and  the  "blues",  to  petty  annoyances 
and  disappointments.  The  man  who 
can  say,  whatever  happens,  "It  is  all 
for  the  best,"  is  the  bravest  man,  the 
happiest  man. 

Contentment    is    the    "Treasure    of 
Life".    The  price  of   it  is   Love. 
M.  D.  Richards — in  Christian  Register. 


AFIERNOON  TEA-TABLE:  GERMAN  TABLECLOTH,  NORWEGL^N  TEA-MACHIN 


Seasonable  Recipes 

By  Janet  M.  Hill 


IN  all  recipes  where  flour  is  used,  unless  otherwise  stated,  the  flour  is  measured  after 
sifting  once.  Where  flour  is  measured  by  cups,  the  cup  is  fllled  with  a  spoon,  and  a 
level  cupful  is  meant  A  tablespoonful  or  teaspoonful  of  any  designated  material  is  ■ 
LEVEL  spoonful. 


Duchesses  a' la  Reine 

MAKE  chou-paste  of  half  a  cup, 
each,  of  flour  and  boiling  water, 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter,  one 
egg  and  one  yolk.  Shape  in  small  rounds 
with  a  teaspoon.  When  baked  and  cold, 
have  ready  a  cup  of  chopped  chicken 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  ham, 
mixed  with  a  little  seasoned  chicken 
broth  (about  one-half  a  cup)  and  one  cup 
of  cream  beaten  firm.  Use  these,  mixed 
together  and  seasoned  to  taste, in  filling 
the  little  cases.    Brush  over  the  top  with 


chicken  jelly  just  on  the  point  of  "set- 
ting" and  sprinkle  with  chopped  truffles. 
Serve  in  the  place  of  soup  or  before  the 
soup  at  luncheon  or  dinner. 

Consomme'  Celestine 

Have  ready  two  quarts  of  consomm^ 
in  the  making  of  which  chicken  was  used 
in  greater  proportion  than  either  veal 
or  beef.  Cook  three  level  tablespoon- 
fuls of  a  quick-cooking  tapioca  in  a  pint 
of  consomm^  over  hot  water,  then  strain 
through  a  napkin  into  the  soup.  Gar- 
nish with  two-inch  shreds  of  pancakes. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL-MAGAZINE 


one-fourth  an  inch  wide,  or  with  figures 
cut  from  pancakes.  The  pancakes 
should  be  thin  and  tender. 

French   Pancakes   for   Consomme 

Sift  one  cup  of  flour  and  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt ;  add  two  eggs,  then 
gradually  stir  in  about  one  cup  of  milk, 
Continue  stirring  until  smooth,  then 
beat  in  one  white  of  egg  beaten  dry. 
Bake  as  any  pan  cakes;  pile  one  above 
the  other  and  cut  as  desired.  Cream 
may  replace  the  milk.  The  pancakes 
should  be  similar  to  an  omelet  in  consis- 
tency. 

Chicken  Gumbo  Soup 
(Canned  Okra) 


peeled  onion  and  one  green  pepper 
shredded  fine;  let  cook  a  minute,  then 
add  one  cup  and  a  half  of  canned  to- 
mato, cut  in  bits  and  seeds  discarded, 
and  about  a  pint  of  the  broth ;  cover  and 
let  simmer  until  the  bacon  and  vege- 
tables are  tender,  then  add  the  rest  of 
the  broth,  one  can  of  okra  and  the 
chicken,  and  let  heat  to  the  boiling 
point ;  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  paprika  and  one  cup 
of  hot  boiled  rice.  Serve  as  the  main 
dish  at  luncheon  or  supper. 

Plymouth  Succotash 

Boil  six  pounds  of  corned  beef  and  a 
six  pound  fowl,  separately,  until  done. 


HAM   BAKED,  WITH  CIDEB 


This  soup  may  be  made  from  the 
remnants  of  a  roast  turkey  or  two 
chickens.  Pick  off  all  the  choice  bits  of 
meat  (there  should  be  from  one  to  two 
cups).  Break  up  the  framework,  add 
pieces  of  browned  skin,  bits  of  fresh  veal, 
or  chicken  giblets  if  available;  cover  with 
cold  water,  let  simmer  two  hoiu-s,  then 
strain;  add  enough  fresh  chicken  or  veal 
broth  to  make  two  quarts  in  all.  Cut 
two  slices  of  bacon  or  a  bit  of  ham  in 
tiny  cubes;  let  cook  in  a  white-lined 
saucepan  until  yellowed  a  little ;  add  one 


Remove  the  meat  from  the  liquid  and 
let  all  cool.  Remove  the  fat  from  the 
saucepans  of  liquid  and  reheat  them 
together ;  add  five  quarts  of  hulled  com 
and  let  simmer  one  hour  and  a  half. 
Stew  three  pints  of  pea  beans  in  a  sep- 
arate saucepan,  in  water  to  cover,  then 
strain  into  the  broth.  One  hour  before 
serving,  boil  five  potatoes  and  one  tur- 
nip, cut  in  small  pieces,  in  water  to  cover, 
until  tender,  then  add  vegetables  and 
water  to  the  other  ingredients;  add  also 
the  beef  and  chicken  cut  in  small  pieces. 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES  531 

When  hot  throi^hout  the  dish  is  ready  ten  minutes  and  let  cook  until  the 
to  serve  This  makes  a  large  quantity,  bones  in  the  shin  may  be  turned.  Serve 
but  is  so  made  that  it  may  be  kept  on     hot  with  a  dish  of  spinach,  chopped 


HAM  MOUSSELINE.  A  LA  FLORENTINE 


hand  for  several  days  (a  week  or  more  in 
cold  weather)  and  reheated  as  required. 

Ham  Baked,  with  Cider 

Let  a  choice  ham  stand  covered  with 
cold  water  over  night;  drain  and  set 
over  the  fire  in  a  fresh  supply  of  cold 
water;  let  heat  slowly  to  the  boiling 
point,  then  simmer  four  hours.  Re- 
move the  ham  to  a  deep  baking  pan, 
take  off  the  skin  and  pour  over  one  pint 
of  the  liquid  in  which  it  was  cooked 
and  one  pint  of  hot  c4der;  baste  each 


and  mixed  with  a  small  quantity  of 
cream  sauce,  about  half  a  cup  to  a 
generous  pint  of  spinach.  For  sauce, 
skim  off  the  fat  from  the  liquid  in  the 
baking  pan.  Take  one  cup  of  this 
liquid,  one  cup  of  rich  brown  stock,  and 
thicken  with  one-fourth  a  cup  of  flour 
cooked  in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  stir  in 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  currant  jelly. 

The  first  part  of  the  cooking  may 
be  done  overnight  in  a  fireless  cooker. 
Apple  sauce,  apple-and-celery  salad  or 


SUGGESTION   FOB   LATE  WINTER  BREAKFAST 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


cabbage  salad  are  all  appropriate  with     the  four  mousselines. 
ham. 


Ham  Mousseline  a  la  Florentine 

Scrape  pulp  from  the  fibres  of  a  slice 
of  ham  to  half-fill  a  cup,  generous 
'measure;  pound  the  pulp  in  a  wooden 
bowl,  with  a  pestle,  add  the  white  of  one 
egg  and  pound  until  smooth,  add  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  cold  white  sauce  and 
again  pound  until  smooth,  then  press 
with  the  pestle  through  a  gravy  strainer 
or  a  purfe  sievC;  scraping  the  mixture 
from  the  under  side  of  the  strainer  from 
time  to  time.  Into  this  sifted  pulp, 
beat  the  white  of  one  egg,  beaten  dry, 
and  then  half  a  cup  of  cream,  beaten 
firm;  continue  the  beating  until  the 
mixture  is  blended  very  smooth.    Have 


Demi-Glace  Sauce 

Put  one  cup,  each,  of  veal  broth  and 
brown  sauce  (made  with  beef  broth  and 
brown  roux)  over  the  fire  to  simmer 
gently  until  reduced  nearly  one-half. 
Skim  occasionally  while  cooking.  Beat 
in  two  tables poonfuls  of  sherrj'  wine 
and  the  sauce  is  ready. 

Ham  Souffle  a  la  Milanaise 

Melt  two  tablespoon fuls  butter;  in 
it  cook  two  tables  poonfuls  of  flour,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  a  dash 
of  black  pepper;  add  two  cups  of  milk 
and  stir  until  boiling;  add  half  a  cup  of 
fine  bread  crumbs,  two  cups  of  cooked 


HAPING  TENDERLOIN   HEARTS,   NEWPORT  STYLE 


ready  four  molds,  buttered  and  decor- 
ated with  figures  cut  from  thin  slices 
of  truffle;  fill  the  molds  with  the  ham 
mixture;  set  the  molds  on  several  folds 
of  paper  in  a  baking  pan,  and  surround 
with  boiling  water;  let  cook  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  until  firm  in  the  centre.  "Un-, 
mold  on  a  bed  of  cooked  spinach.  Serve 
demi-slace  sauce  in  a  bowU  . 

■Spinach  for  Ham'  Mousseline  ' 
Cook  half  a  peck  of  spinach  in  the 
usual  manner,  drain  and  chop  very  fine ; 
add  a  scant  half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and 
stir  over  the  fire  until  very  hot,  then 
spread  on  a  hot  dish  of  a  size  to  take 


ham.  chopped  fine,  and  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  beaten  light:  mix  all  together, 
then  fold  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
beaten  dry.  Have  ready  one  cup  of 
cooked  macaroni  (cut  in  half-inch  rings), 
half  a  cup  of  cubes  of  cooked  ham  and 
■half  a  cup  of  fresh  mushroom  caps, 
broken  in  pieces  and  cooked  in  butter 
two  minutes,  also  one  cup  of  brown 
sauce,  half  a  cup  of  thick  tomato  purfe 
(cooked  tomatoes  pressed  through  a 
sieve  and  thickened  by  slow  cooking), 
and  half  a  cup  of  grated  cheese.  Mix 
the  macaroni,  mushrooms,  ham  and 
cheese  through  the  sauce  and  purfe. 
Spread  a  layer  of  the  ham  and  egg  mix- 
ture on   the  bottom  of  a  baking    dish 


■     -^    '  SEASONABLE  RECIPES  .533 

suitable  for  the  table ;  form  a  wall  of  a  cup  of  flour,  stir  until  browned,  then 
the  same  mixture  next  the  dish,  leaving  add  the  tomato  purfe  with  enough 
the   center  open;   gradually   fill   in   the     brown  stock  to  malce  two  cups  in  all; 


TKNDERI-OIN   HEARTS,  \ 


center  with  the  macaroni  mixture,  taking 
care  to  build  the  wall  of  egg  mixture, 
next  the  edge  of  the  dish,  before  the 
center  beside  it  is  filled  in.  Spread  the 
egg  mixture  evenly  over  the  top.  Let 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  forty-five 
minutes,  or  until  well  puffed  and  firm 
in  the  center.  Serve  from  the  baking 
dish  with  tomato  sauce  in  a  bowl. 

Tomato  Sauce 
Simmer  two-  cups  of  tomatoes,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  ham,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  onion,  two  branches 
parsley,  one-fourth  a  cup  of  dried  mush- 
rooms,soaked  in  cold  water  to  cover,  and 
three  slices  of  carrot  half  an  hour,  then 
press  through  a  sieve.  Melt  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  clarified  butter ;  add  one-fourth 


stir  until  boiling,  then  add  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper. 

Tenderloin  Hearts,  Newport,  with 
Spaghetti 

Pass  through  a  food  chopper,  together, 
one  pound  of  beef  tenderloin,  half  a 
pound  of  veal  steak,  half  a  cup  of  cooked 
ham  and  three-fourths  a  cup  of  beef 
marrow;  add  one  tablespoonful.each,  of 
brandy  and  sherry,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  black 
pepper ;  mix  all  together  very  thoroughly, 
then  gradually  beat  in  half  a  cup  of  rich 
cream.  Divide  the  mixture  into  eight 
or  ten  portions,  roll  each  into  a  compact 
ball,  then  flatten  and  press  with  the 
fingers  into   heart-shapes.     Cover  with 


SPINACH  SALAD 


534 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


beaten  egg  diluted  with  milk  and  then 
with  soft,  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Sautfe 
in  clarified  butter  or  olive  oil,  first  on 
one  side  and  then  on  the  other,  until 
well-browned.  Serve  on  a  bed  of  spag- 
hetti. 

Spaghetti   for   Tenderloin    Hearts 

Cook  a  cup  of  spaghetti  in  rapidly 
boiling,  salted  water  until  done;  rinse  in 
cold  water  and  drain.  Melt  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter;  in  it  cook  one  cup 
of  fresh  mushroom  caps;  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  stir  and  cook  until  absorbed; 
add  one  cup  of  brown  stock  and  half 
a  cup  of  tomato  purte  and  stir  until 
boiling;  add  half  a  cup  of  grated  Par- 


cut  in  pieces  and  seeds  discarded)  and 
let  simmer  until  the  onion  is  tender; 
add  the  meat,  of  which  there  should  be 
about  three  cups,  and  let  become  very 
hot  over  hot  water.  About  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  will  be  needed.  Serve 
in  individual  white-lined  earthen  dishes, 
made  hot  and  set  on  a  folded  napkin. 
Dip  two  toast  points  in  beaten  white  of 
egg  and  then  in  fine-chopped  parsley 
and  set  at  the  ends  of  each  dish. 

Adelaide  Patties 

Melt  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter ;  in  it 
cook  one  cup  of  fresh  mushroom  caps, 
peeled  and  broken  into  pieces,  about 
two  minutes;  add  one-fourth  a  cup  of 
flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one- 


COFFEE   PABFAIT  FOR  FEBRUARY  22inl 


mesan  cheese  and  the  spaghetti;  with 
fork  and  spoon  lift  the  spaghetti  re- 
peatedly until  well  mixed  with  the 
cheese  and  sauce;  cover  and  reheat  over 
boiling  water. 

Minced  Tenderloin  en  Casserole, 
Mexicaine 

(Good  for  Tea  Room  and  Restaurant  Service) 
Have  ready  small  and  thin  slices  of 
cold  roast  beef  simmered  in  stock  until 
very  tender.  Cut  half  a  green  pepper 
and  a  mild  onion  in  small  shreds;  let 
cook  in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter  until 
yellowed  a  little,  then  add  three  cups 
of  cooked  tomato  (largely  solid  tomato, 


fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  stir 
and  cook  until  absorbed,  then  add  one 
cup  of  chicken  broth  and  three-fourths 
a  cup  of  cream,  and  stir  until  boiling; 
add  one  cup  of  cooked  chicken  cut  in 
cubes,  one  cup  of  cooked  peas  and  more 
seasoning  if  needed.  Serve  in  hot  puff- 
paste  patties. 

Spinach  Salad 

Chop  exceedingly  fine  enough  cooked 
spinach  to  make  one  cup  and  a  quarter; 
add  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful.  each,  of 
salt  and  paprika,  a  tablespoonful  of 
olive  oil  and  half  a  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice.     Soften  one-fourth  a  pack- 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


PINEAPPLE  DESSERT.  VALENTINE  STYLE 


age  of  gelatine  in  one-fourth  a  cup  of 
chicken  broth  or  water  and  dissolve 
in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  boiling  broth. 
Stir  the  dissolved  gelatine  into  the  spin- 
ach. Have  ready  six  or  eight  tirabale 
molds,  fitted  with  rounds  of  paper  in 
the  bottom.  Set  a  slice  of  "hard-cook- 
ed" egg  in  the  bottom  of  each  mold  and 
figures  cut  from  thin  slices  of  white 
against  the  sides,  then  (ill  with  spinach. 
When  cold  unmold  on  thin  shreds  of 
cold-cooked  tongue.  Garnish  with 
heart-leaves  of  lettuce.  Serve  sauce 
tartare   in   a   bowl. 

Coffee  Parfait 

(Simple) 
Beat  four  egg-yolks,  add  half  a  cup  o 
sugar  and  beat  again,  then  cook  in  one 
pint  of  rich  milk  scalded  over  hot  water. 
When  thickened  slightly  remove  from 
the  fire  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
coffee  extract  and  when  cold  freeze  as 


ice-cream.  To  one  cup  of  double  cream, 
add  one-fourth  a  cup  of  sugar  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  coffee  extract  and  beat 
until  firm  throughout,  then  beat  into 
the  frozen  mixture;  turn  the  mixture 
into  a  quart  mold  and  cover  with  paper ; 
let  stand  in  two  parts  crushed  ice  to  one 
of  salt  about  two  hours.  When  un- 
molded  garnish  with  sliced  cherries  and 
chopped  pistachio  nuts.  For  the  22nd 
of  February,  decorate  with  cherries  and 
the  stems  and  leaves  cut  from  the  green 
outer  rind  of  preserved  citron. 

Pineapple  Dessert,  Valentine  Style 
Cut  the  slices  in  a  can  of  pineapple 
into  heart-shapes;  have  the  shapes  as 
large  as  the  slice  will  allow.  Chop  the 
trimmings  fine;  add  liquid  from  the 
can  to  make  one  cup  in  all.  Soften  one- 
fourth  a  package  of  gelatine  in  cold 
water,  and  dissolve  in  the  cup  of  chopped 
pineapple,  made  hot  for  the  purpose; 


FIVE  O'CLOCK  CREAM  CAKES 


THE   BOSTON     COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE 


CR&PE  PAPEH  TABLE  FOR  FKBBUARY  22  nd 

add  three-fourths  a  cup  of  sugar,  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  color-paste  to 
tint  a  pink  shade.  In  the  packages  of 
most  varieties  of  gelatine  means  of 
tinting  this  color  will  bo  found.  Stir 
the  mixture  over  ice  and  water  until  it 
begins  to  thicken,  then  fold  in  one  cup 
of  cream  beaten  firm.  Turn  into  an 
agate  or  aluminum  dish  to  make  a 
sheet  about  three-fourths  an  inch  thick. 
Set  aside  in  a  cool  place  until  firm. 
Unmold  on  waxed  paper.    Dip  a  heart- 


shaped  cutter  (of  a  size  smaller  than  the 
shapes  cut  from  the  slices  of  pineapple) 
into  boiling  water  and  use  in  cutting 
pink  hearts  from  the  pineapple  gelatine 
mixture.  Set  these  above  the  pineapple. 
Beat  one  cup  of  double  cream,  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  until  firm  and  use 
to  pipe  a  star  on  the  top  of  each  portion. 
Sprinkle  the  whole  with  chopped  pis- 
tachio nuts.  For  February  22nd,  leave 
the  slices  of  pineapple  in  their  natural 
shape,  and  chop  two  or  three  whole 
slices  for  the  cream  mixture.  Shape 
the  pink  in  squares  or  ovals  and  when 
set  in  place  decorate  with  whole  cherries 
with  stem  and  leaves  of  citron. 

Five   O'clock    Cream    Cakes 

Melt  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter  in 
half  a  cup  of  boiling  water  and  reheat 
to  boihng;  sift  in  half  a  cup  of  flour  and 
stir  and  cook  until  the  mixture  forms 
a  ball;  turn  into  a  bowl,  beat  in  one  egg 
yolk,  and  when  smooth  beat  in  a  whole 
egg.  Drop  the  paste  by  the  teaspoonful 
on  to  a  buttered  baking  sheet.  Bake 
about  twenty  minutes.  Beat  one  cup  of 
heavy  cream,  one-fourth  a  cup  of  sugar 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  until 
firm.  When  the  cakes  are  cold,  open 
them  on  one  side  and  fill  the  hollow 
(Continual  on  Pigt  562) 


< 

Q 

D 


< 
Q 

O 


> 
< 

Q 
(/) 


< 

Q 

PC 

D 

H 

< 
c/) 


Balanced  Menus  for  a  Week  in  February 

(SIMPLE) 
There  is  every  justification  for  the  relative  abundance  of  starch  foods  in  man*s  diet. — Jordan, 


Coffee 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 
Dry  Toast 
Doughnuts 


Cocoa 


Dinner 

Pot  Roast   (Chuck)  of  Beef,   Brown  Sauce 

Baked  Potatoes 

Mashed  Turnips 

Apples  Baked  with  Tapioca,  Sugar,  Cream 

Cookies 
Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Hot  Boiled  Rice,  Milk 

Stewed  Prunes 

Rye  Bread  and  Butter 

Cookies  Tea 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Milk 

Finnan  Haddie  and  Potato  Cakes 

Bacon 

Boston  Brown  Bread 

(Sliced,  covered  and  reheated) 

Co  fee  White  Bread  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Hamburg  Steak 
Stewed  Tomatoes  Baked  Potatoes 

Hot  Dates 

Graham  Crackers 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Kornlet  Chowder  Toasted  Crackers 

New  Graham  Bread  and  Butter 

Dried  Apricots,  Stewed  Tea 


Coffee 


Breakfast 

Scrapple,  Sauted 

Fried  Mush,  Caramel  Syrup 

Hashed  Potatoes 


Cocoa 


Dinner 

Minced  Tenderloin  en  Casserole,  Mexicaine 

(Left  over  Pot  Roast) 

Scalloped  Potatoes  Celery 

Steamed  Suet  (fruit)  Pudding  (reheated) 

Syrup  Sauce 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Cheese  Pudding 

Hot  Apple  Sauce  Bread  and  Butter 

Ginger  Cookies  Tea 


Brealcfast 

Cereal,  Milk 
Country  Salt  Pork,  Cooked  in  Batter 

White  Hashed  Potatoes 
Coffee  Doughnuts  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Boiled  Corn  Beef,  Rib 

Boiled  Potatoes 

Boiled  Turnips      Boiled  Cabbage 

Baked  Indian  Pudding 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Baltimore  Samp,  Molasses,  Milk 

Rye  Bread  and  Butter 
Ginger  Cakes  Tea 


Coffee 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 
Beef -and -Potato  Hash 
Buttered  Toast 


Cocoa 


Dinner 

Tomato  Soup 

(Remnants  of  Pot  Roast,  etc.) 

Finnan  Haddie,  Dinner  Style 

Philadelphia  Relish 

Apple  or  Prune  Pie 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Stewed  Lima  Beans 
Hot  Graham  Biscuit  or  Muffins 
Baked  Bananas,  Raisin  Sauce 
Tea 


BrealLfast 

Cereal,  Milk 
Scrambled  Eggs 

Ryemeal  Muffins 
Coffee  Marmalade 


Toast 
Cocoa 


Dinner 

Creamed  Corn  Beef,  Au  Gratin 

Scalloped  Cabbage  Baked  Potatoes 

Yeast  Biscuit 

Bread  Pudding 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup 
Browned  Crackers        Water  Sponge  Cake 
Canned  Rhubarb,  Cooked  with  I&isins 
Spider  Com  Cake  Tea 


a 
w 

C/J 

a 
> 


C/) 

a 
> 


o 
> 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Bananas,  Thin  Cream 
Corned  Beef  and  Potato  Hash 
Cornmeal  Muffins 
Pickles 
Coffee  Cocoa 


Dinner 

Neck  of  Lamb  Stew 

Hot  Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Cranberries 

Jell- ) 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

537 


Supper 

Salt  Codfish  Balls 

Cabbage  Salad 

Bread  and  Butter 

Tea 


Balanced  Menus  for  a  Week  in  February 

Under  favorahU  conditions,  a  rapidly  growing  child  will  obviously  need  more  botte-makin^  material, 
in  proportion  to  its  total  food  supply,  than  will  the  adults  of  the  family,     {Adapted  from  Sherman) 


< 

a 


> 

< 

H 


< 
Q 

< 
«/5 


Breakfast 

Oranges 
Eggs  Scrambled  with  Chopped  Ham 
Creamed  Potatoes 
Coffee         Commeal  Muffins         Cocoa 

Dinner 

Fillets  of  Fresh  Fish,  Fried,  Hollandaise  Sauce 

Marseillaise,  (with  tomato  purte) 

Yeast  Biscuit 

Larded  Fillet  of  Beef,  Roasted 

Mashed  Potatoes,  Vienna  Style 

Macaroni  Baked  with  Cheese  or 

Celery,  Apple  and  Date  Salad 

Custard  Souffle,  Sabayon  Sauce 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Eggs  a  la  King  Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Preserved  Figs,  Charleston  Style 
Maple  Syrup  Cake,  Maple  Syrup  Frosting 

Tea 


Coffee 


Breakfast 

Grapefruit 
Sausage 
White  Hashed  Potatoes 
Buckwheat  Griddle  Cakes 

Luncheon 

Stewed  Lima  Beans  (dried) 

Bread  and  Butter 
Canned  Apricot  Shortcake 
Cocoa 

Dinner 

Tomato  Soup 

Cold  Roast  Turkey 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Creamed  Celery 

Sliced  Pineapple 

Sponge  Cake 
Half  Cups  Coffee 


Cocoa 


Breakfast 

Oatmeal,  Thin  Cream 
Creamed  Codfish  Small  Baked  Potatoes 

Whole  Wheat  Bakine  Powder  Biscuits 
Coffee         Grapefruit  Marmalade         Cocoa 

Luncheon 

Macaroni  a  la  Milanaise 
(with  bits  of  ham,  tomato,  cheese) 
Toasted  Biscuit 
Tapioca  Custard  Pudding,  Vanilla  Sauce 

Tea 

Dinner 

Roasted  Turkey,  Giblet  Sauce 

Sweet  Pickle  Jelly 
Sweet  Potatoes  Southern  Style 
Celery  and  Pimiento  Salad 
Cream  Cakes  with  Bar-de-luc-Currants 
Half  Cups  Coffee 


Coffee 


Breakfast 

Oranges  and  Bananas 

Fried  Smelts,  Sauce  Tartare 

Yeast  Rolls  (reheated) 


Doughnuts 
Luncheon 


Cocoa 


Creamed  Finnan.Haddie  au  Gratin 

Baked  Potatoes 

Philadelphia  Relish 

Rye  Bread  and  Butter 

Apples  Baked  with  Almonds 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

Dinner 

Fresh  Codfish  Chowder 
Toasted  Crackers 
Pickles  and  Olives 
Lemon  Sponge  Pie      Cream  Cheese 
Half  Cups  Coffee 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Hot  Dates,  Thin  Cream 
Sausage 
Creamed  Potatoes 
Rice  Griddle  Cakes 

Coffee        Honey  Syrup     Cocoa 


Luncheon 

Swiss  Soup,  Croutons 

Apple  Dumplings, 

Hard  Sauce 

Cocoa 

538 


PI 

O 

z 

O 

> 


Breakfast 

Breakfast 

Cream  of  Wheat,  Thin  Cream 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Hot  Dates 

Broiled  Ham,  Eggs  fried  in  Olive  Oil 
Fried  Potatoes 

Scrapple,  floured  and  fried 

Small  Baked  Potatoes 

Coffee           Bran  Muffins              Cocoa 

^ 

Coffee     Komlet  Griddle  Cakes     Cocoa 

Luncheon 

i-j 

1 

Luncheon 

Chicken  Gumbo  Soup 
Apples  Baked  with  Tapioca,  Thin  Cream 

X 

Cheese  SouIR^ 

c 

z 

String  Bean  Salad 

Cookies 

Hi 

o 

Apple  Pie,  Whipped  Cream,  Grated  Maple 

Tea 

a 

S 

Sugar              Half  Cups  Coffee 

Dinner 

> 
•< 

Dinner 

Scalloped  Oysters 

Consomm^,  Celestine 

Cabbage  Salad 

Ham   Mousseline   k   la   Florentine 

Rye  Bread  and  Butter 

Nut  Bread 

Coffee  Parfait 

Cornstarch  Blancmange 
Boiled  Custard              Tea 

Chocolate  Cake 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

D 
> 


Dinner 

Round  Steak  en  Casserole 

(carrots,  onions,  etc.) 

Celery -and -Green  Pepper  Salad 

Noisette  Bread  and  Butter 

Raspberry  Jell-0   Oatmeal  Cookies 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 


Preparation  in  Detail  of  the  Meals  of  One  Day 

Fondly  c/  Two  Adults  and  Two  Children 


By  Janet  M.  Hill 


TUESDAY 


Breakfast 

Oatmeal,  Hot  Dates,  Thin  Cream 

Broiled  Ham,  Poached  Eggs 

Small  Potatoes  Baked,  or 

Quartered  Potatoes  Boiled 

Milk  Toast  (Graham  Bread) 

Dry  Toast  (White  Bread) 

Coffee  .Cocoa 

Dinner 

Baked  Fillets  or  Slices  of  Fish 

Bread  Dressing 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce  Pickles 

Boiled  Cabbage 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Pineapple  Dessert 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Gnocchi  k  la  Romaine 

Macedoine  of  Vegetables  in  Tomato  Jelly 

French  Dressing 

Stewed  Prunes 

Rye  Bread  and  Butter 

Honey  Cookies 

Tea 

When  getting  the  supper  Monday 
night,  set  the  oatmeal  to  cook  for  the 
brealrfast  Tuesday  morning;  let  cook 
half  an  hour  or  longer.  Put  the  dates 
into  a  saucepan.  If  the  potatoes  are 
to  be  baked,  scrub  and  wipe  them  dry; 
if  they  are  to  be  boiled,  pare,  quarter 
and  set  aside,  covered  with  cold  water. 

Tuesday  morning  has  now  come  and 
the  tea  kettle  is  boiling.  Add  a  little 
boiling  water  to  the  oatmeal  and  fill 
the  lower  kettle  to  the  proper  height 
with  boiling  water  and  set  to  cook  for 
the  second  time.  Before  serving  beat 
the  oatmeal  thoroughly. 


Pour  boiling  water  over  the  dates; 
heat  quickly  to  the  boiling  point  and 
skim  from  the  water  to  an  agate  plate; 
set  the  dates  into  the  oven  to  dry  off; 
then  cut  on  one  side  and  remove  the 
seeds;  serve  a  few  in  the  saucers  with  the 
oatmeal.  The  dates  furnish  a  natural 
sweet  and,  with  them,  sugar  is  more 
than  ever  a  superfluity  with  cereal. 

K  one  is  f orttmate  enough  to  have  a 
choice  cotmtry  ham,  a  slice  cut  directly 
from  the  raw  ham  may  be  broiled  over 
not  too  fierce  coals,  or  pan-broiled 
in  a  hot  frying  pan,  or  even  carefully 
fried,  and  prove  a  toothsome  breakfast 
dish.  But  with  knowledge  bom  of 
past  experience  we  suggest,  that  the 
broiled  ham  be  cut  from  near  the 
center  of  a  carefully  "boiled"  ham. 
Leave  the  ridge  of  fat  on  the  slice, 
brush  over  the  lean  part  with  melted 
ham  or  bacon  fat,  set  the  slice  in  a 
double  broiler  over  the  coals,  but  not 
too  near  them,  turn  often,  and  dispose 
on  a  hot  platter  as  soon  as  heated 
throughout. 

If  baking  is  the  method  of  cooking 
chosen  for  the  potatoes,  pick  out  small 
ones  that  will  bake  in  half  an  hour; 
cut  two  gashes  across  the  top  of  each 
potato,  one  at  right  angles  to  the  other, 
take  each  potato  in  a  cloth  and  crush  a 
little  on  the  bottom,  to  let  out  steam 
and  disclose  the  pulp;  set  a  generous 
piece  of  butter  in  the  center  of  each 


539 


540 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


and  if  agreeable  fleck,  with  paprika. 
These  should  not  be  removed  from  the 
oven  and  made  ready  until  after  the 
cereal  has  been  served.  If  the  potatoes 
are  to  be  boiled,  set  them  to  cook  in 
boiling,  salted  water  and  let  them  cook 
quickly.  If  time  is  no  object,  do  not 
cut  them  in  pieces  until  time  to  cook. 

As  the  milk  toast  is  made  partic- 
ularly for  the  children  of  the  family, 
the  sauce  should  be  made  in  a  hygienic 
manner.  Scald  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
milk  in  a  double  boiler;  gradually  stir 
half  a  cup  of  milk  into  one-fourth  a  cup 
of  sifted  floiu-  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  then  dilute  with  a  little  of  the 
hot  milk,,  and  when  well  mixed  stir  into 
the  rest  of  the  hot  milk;  continue  to 
stir  until  the  sauce  thickens,  then  cover 
and  let  cook  about  twenty  minutes. 
When  ready  to  serve,  beat  in  one  or 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  a  little 
at  a  time;  have  ready  the  graham  bread 
well  dried  out  and  browned,  dip  the 
edges  in  boiling,  salted  water,  then 
cover  with  some  of  the  hot  sauce. 
Divide  the  work  of  getting  breakfast, 
if  no  maid  is  employed,  among  the 
different  members  of  the  family  and  let 
each  be  responsible  for  serving  a  dish, 
hot  and  in  good  condition,  at  just  the 
right  moment  in  the  sequence  of  the 
breakfast. 

For  the  fish  dish  at  dinner,  select 
whatever  fresh  fish  is  available  in  your 
locality.  Pickerel,  black  bass,  lake  fish 
of  good  size,  or  halibut,  haddock,  cod, 
sea  bass  or  sea  trout  from  the  ocean 
are  all  adapted  to  this  mode  of  cooking. 
With  halibut,  select  two  slices,  cut  en- 
tirely across  the  fish,  below  the  body 
opening.  For  any  of  the  other  kinds, 
a  whole  fish  is  needed,  and  the  fillets 
or  flesh  on  each  side  of  the  back  bone 
should  be  taken  off  as  entire  as  possible. 
This  will  give  two  large  pieces  of  solid 
fish.  This  work  can  be  done  at  the 
market,  but  with  a  little  experience  it 
can  be  done  at  home  in  a  very  few  min- 
utes. Cover  the  head,  bones  and  all 
the   trimmings   with   cold   water,   add 


an  onion  cut  in  slices,  three  or  four 
slices  of  carrot  and  three  branches  of 
parsley  and  let  cook  half  an  hour  to 
make  stock  for  the  sauce.  Take  the 
cover  of  a  tin  cracker  box  and  pound 
the  edge  flat,  rub  it  over  with  fat  salt 
pork  and  set  into  a  baking  dish;  on  this 
set  one  of  the  prepared  fillets  and  sprin- 
kle lightly  with  salt.  Mix  one  cup  of 
soft,  fine  bread  crumbs,  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt,  pepper,  and 
powdered  sweet  basil,  and  if  desired  a 
tablespoonful  of  fine-chopped  onion  or 
green  pepper,  or  both,  and,  lastly,  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  melted  butter;  spread 
this  over  the  fish  in  the  pan,  lay  the 
second  piece  of  fish  over  the  dressing 
and  press  it  down  upon  it,  then  set  two 
or  three  small  pieces  of  fat  salt  pork 
above  the  fish.  Cook  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  forty  minutes,  less  ratlier 
than  more.  Baste  four  times  while 
cooking  with  the  fat  in  the  pan  or  a 
little  melted  butter.  When  nearly  baked 
spread  half  a  cup  of  cracker  crumbs, 
mixed  with  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter,  over  the  top  of  the 
fish  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown 
the  crumbs.  When  ready  to  serve,  lift 
the  tin  with  a  board  spatula  and  care- 
fully push  and  slide  the  fish  on  to  a  hot 
serving  dish.  Have  the  mashed  potatoes 
hot  and  ready  to  serve  when  the  fish 
is  ready.  To  insure  this  put  thepotatoes 
over  the  fire  just  after  the  fish  is  set 
into  the  oven.  The  fish  stock  for  the 
drawn  butter  sauce  should  be  strained 
and  set  to  cool  before  the  fish  is  put 
into  the  oven. 

When  the  fish  is  rather  more  than 
half -cooked,  begin  the  sauce.  Melt  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  in  it  cook 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  sifted  flotir  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  then  stir 
in  two  cups  of  the  fish  broth;  stir  until 
smooth  and  boiling.  Cover  and  set 
over  boiling  water.  When  the  fish  is 
on  the  platter,  stir  into  the  sauce  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  in  little  bits, 
beat  in  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice 
and  the  sauce  is  ready. 


THREE  MEALS  A  DAY 


541 


The  cabbage  will  need  to  cook  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour;  early  in  the  morn- 
ing cut  it  in  eighths,  remove  the  hard 
center  and  let  stand  in  cold  water 
until  time  to  cook.  Cook  in  boiling 
water;  add  salt  just  before  the  cabbage 
is  done.  Use  a  large  quantity  of  water 
and  leave  the  saucepan  uncovered. 
When  cooked  the  cabbage  should  not 
have  lost  its  crispness;  drain  carefully 
and  serve  on  a  folded  napkin.  The 
sauce  for  the  fish  will  suffice  for  the 
cabbage.  The  recipe  for  the  dessert, 
which  can  be  made  early  in  the  morning, 
is  given  on  another  page,  in  the  Season- 
able Recipes. 

The  cheese  dish  for  supper  may  be 
made  in  the  morning  and  simply  re- 
heated at  night.  For  this  dish  scald 
one  cup  and  a  third  of  milk  in  a  double 
boiler;  mix  one-fourth  a  cup,  each,  of 
flour  and  cornstarch  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  paprika 
with  two-thirds  a  cup  of  cold  milk, 
and  stir  into  the  hot  milk;  continue  to 
stir  until  the  mixture  thickens,  then 
cover  and  let  cook  twenty  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally.  Beat  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  beat  in  two 
yolks  of  eggs,  one  after  another,  then 
half  a  cup  (generous  measure),  of  grated 
cheese;  stir  this  into  the  hot  mixttue; 


continue  to  stir  until  the  egg  is  "set", 
then  turn  the  mixttire  into  a  shallow 
dish  to  form  a  sheet  about  half  an 
inch  thick.  When  cold  cut  into  squares, 
diamonds  or  rounds.  Butter  an  au  gratin 
dish  suitable  for  the  table;  in  it  dispose 
a  layer  of  the  cheese  shapes;  sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese  and  set  a  layer  of 
paste  over  the  cheese  and  sprinkle 
generously  with  cheese.  A  half  to  a 
full  cup  of  cheese  may  be  used.  Ten 
or  fifteen  minutes  before  supper  is 
served,  set  the  dish  into  the  oven  to 
reheat  the  paste  and  melt  the  cheese. 
Serve  with  this  the  salad,  and  bread  and 
butter.  For  the  salad  make  about  a 
pint  of  tomato  jelly;  stir  it  in  ice  and 
water  imtil  it  begins  to  set,  then  add 
a  cup  or  more  of  fine-cut,  cooked  vege- 
tables, string  beans,  asparagus-tips, 
peas,  bits  of  celery,  capersj  one  or 
several,  as  is  convenient.  In  making 
the  dressing  allow  a  tablespoonful  of 
oil  and  a  scant  half-teaspoonf  ul  of  vine- 
gar for  each  service,  also  a  scraping  of 
onion  juice  and  a  few  grains,  each,  of 
salt  and  paprika.  The  prunes,  soaked 
over  night  and  cooked  in  the  morning, 
should  be  simmered  very  slowly;  thus 
cooked,  the  sweetness  of  the  prunes  is 
brought  out  and  but  little  if  any  sugar 
is  needed. 


Frost  Fairies 


While  sleep  did  make  for  mortal  eyes  a  screen, 
They  soft  descended  to  their  witchery, 
Veiling  with  dazzling  white  the  russet  lea, 
Coating  the  streams  with  ice-mail,  till  I  ween 
They  flashed  forth  silver  in  their  crystal  sheen; 
And  on  the  panes  what  fleecy  land-scapes,  see 
What  ferns  and  frost-flowers,  side  of  tropic  tree, 
In  frigid  art  out-rivalling  Nature's  green. 

O,  fairy  alchemists  of  unknown  craft! 
Distilling  pearl-paint  from  the  frosty  air, 
Hardening  diamonds  in  a  single  night 
Long  Earthward   with  your  matchless  genius 

waft. 
And   when   December's  scenes  grow  dull  and 

bare, 
Hold  us  with  studies  done  in  peerless  white! 

Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson 


Making  the  Boarding-House  a  Business 

By  Anna  Green 


TWO  years  ago,  I  was  confronted 
with  the  problem  o£  earning  an 
income  sufficient  to  educate  and 
provide  a  living  for  my  two  young 
sisters  who  were  then  in  high  school. 
Our  dear  old  home  was  all  that  was  left 
to  us  after  the  change  in  our  fortunes. 
To  part  with  that  would  break  our 
hearts.  I  did  not  want  to  go  down 
town  to  seek  employment,  nor  did  I 
feel  capable  of  doing  any  hne  of  spec- 
ialized work.  Besides,  it  seemed  best 
for  me  to  be  at  home  so  that  when  the 
girls  came  from  school  there  would  be 
some  one  to  look  after  them.  After 
hearing  several  friends  complain  of  the 
meals  at  their  boarding-houses,  I  felt 
I  had  found  the  solution  of  my  problems. 
Why  not  serve  good  homey  meals  to 
the  people  who  longed  for  them?  Cook- 
ing had  always  been  a  pleasure.  We 
had  all  the  capital  required  for  the 
business. 

After  making  further  inquiries,!  found 
that  the  average  price  for  good  table 
board  in  this  middle  western  community 
is  four  and  one  half  dollars  per  week. 
I  also  learned  that  there  were  many 
women  who  depended  year  after  year 
on  the  boarding-house  for  their  food. 
Most  of  them  are  earning  good  salaries 
at  sedentary  occupations.  To  them, 
good  food  is  a  necessity,  if  they  are  to 
maintain  a  high  standard  of  efficiency 
in  their  various  fields  of  labor.  Many 
men  also  prefer  a  meal  in  a  home  to  one 
in  a  restaurant,  but  will  patronize  the 


latter  rather  than  do  business  with  the 
average  woman  who  runs  a  boarding- 
house.  If  I  put  the  time,  effort,  and 
intelligence  into  the  business  that  I 
would  in  working  for  some  firm  or  cor- 
poration, why  could  I  not  make  it  pay? 
I  determined  to  try  and  stuck  to  my 
decision  even  after  hearing  the  adverse 
criticisms  of  my  friends. 

In  making  my  plans,  every  point 
was  considered  to  save  time,  labor,  and 
material.  Every  economy  was  practiced 
which  would  decrease  the  running  ex- 
penses and  still  not  lower  the  standard 
of  the  meals  I  served.  There  would 
be  the  very  best  posable  meals  for  the 
price  To  do  this  much  help  was  out 
of  the  question.  So  all  the  furniture 
and  equipment  of  our  dining-room, 
pantry,  and  kitchen  was  arranged  to 
save  labor.  Our  one  thought  was  to 
use  our  heads  to  save  our  heels. 

Our  house  had  a  door  opening  from 
the  front  porch  Into  the  Hving-room. 
The  boarders,  or  as  I  prefer  to  call  them, 
my  family  use  this  for  an  entrance. 
The  living-room  is  cheerful  and  home- 
like and  is  made  more  so  when  there 
is  a  bright  fire  in  the  grate  on  chilly 
mornings.  The  desk  and  telephone  are 
conveniently  placed  and  the  morning 
and  evening  papers  are  always  on  the 
table. 

The  walls  of  the  dining-room  were 
rather  dingy,  so  we  had  it  decorated. 
We  chose  a  cheap,  soft  tan  paper,  but 
the  color  and  design  were  good,  jast 


MAKING  THE  BOARDING-HOUSE  A  BUSINESS 


543 


what  the  room  needed  with  its  brown 
wood  work  and  southern  exposure. 
We  made  new  curtains  of  scrim,  which 
latmder  easily  and  do  not  hide  the 
pretty  view  from  the  windows.  The 
plate-rail  came  down  to  stay,  and  its 
sundry  collection  was  disposed  of  in  other 
parts  of  the  house.  Three  good  pictures 
were  hung.  Every  article  not  actu- 
ally in  use  was  taken  from  the  side- 
board. The  copper  percolator  and  tray 
gave  a  bright  touch  to  the  room.  A 
fern-dish  filled  with  feathery  ferns  is 
always  kept  ready  for  a  centerpiece 
when  nothing  better  is  at  hand.  On  the 
floor  were  placed  matting  rugs  in  tones 
of   brown  to  match  the  walls. 

The  refrigerator  and  supplies  were 
kept  in  the  pantry,  and  dessert  and 
salads  were  prepared  here.  Two  shelves 
were  kept  for  this  purpose.  We  still 
cling  to  this  method.  All  the  salad 
and  dessert  plates,  ice  cups,  et  cetera, 
are  placed  there.  All  dishes  that  need 
warming  are  kept  in  the  kitchen  cup- 
board, the  silver,  glasses,  and  other 
dishes  in  the  dining-room.  A  wooden 
box  fastened  outside  the  pantry  window 
saves  the  ice  bill  considerably. 

The  kitchen  walls  are  painted  and 
the  floor  covered  with  linoleum.  I  do 
not  consider  this  an  ideal  floor  covering, 
because  the  dirt  does  get  in  between 
the  strips  and  tmder  the  edges,  but  it 
is  the  best  for  us  in  otu*  kitchen,  because 
the  hard  wood  flooring  is  very  poorly 
laid.  The  flour  bin,  sugar,  flavorings, 
etc.,  with  the  pans  used  for  baking  are 
arranged  in  one  section  of  the  cup- 
board. When  I  bake,  I  draw  my  table 
up  beside  it  and  everything  is  within 
reach  and  can  easily  be  put  away. 
All  the  kitchen  utensils  in  constant 
use  are  hung  on  hooks  placed  as  conven- 
iently as  possible.  For  instance,  the 
paring  knife  is  kept  in  a  holder  above 
the  sink.     No  extra  steps  need  be  taken. 

After  two  years  experience,  I  find 
it  cheaper  to  buy  my  supplies  in  large 
quantities.  A  woman  from  the  cotmtry 
supplies  me  with'  butter  and  eggs,  and, 


through  her,  I  have  found  farmers  who 
supply  me  with  my  fall  vegetables. 
We  buy  enough  carrots,  beets,  cabbages, 
and  potatoes  to  last  most  of  the  winter 
and  store  them  in  the  cellar.  By  buy- 
ing canned  vegetables  and  fruits  from 
the  wholesale  grocery  in  the  fall,  we 
get  them  more  cheaply.  Soap,  sugar, 
and  coffee  are  also  bought  at  wholesale 
rates. 

When  we  opened,  we  had  five  people, 
but  it  was  not  long  before  we  had 
twenty,  as  many  as  I  care  to  serve. 
I  keep  accounts  carefully.  The  grocer 
and  butcher  send  slips  with  each  order 
and  these  are  kept  on  a  spindle  until 
checked  up.  I  have  a  card  file  on  which 
to  record  all  my  expenses  and  orders. 
Every  day  I  enter  the  cost  of  groceries 
meats,  and  milk,  on  their  separate  cards, 
so  that  at  the  end  of  the  month  it  is 
an  easy  task  to  add  them.  It  is  fun 
to  compare  one  month  with  another, 
when  you  can  place  two  cards  side  by 
side  to  do  it.  I  keep  posted  on  the 
market  prices  and  plan  so  far  as  possible 
to  serve  things  in  their  season.  Any 
money  spent  on  other  parts  of  the  house, 
not  caused  by  "the  business"  are  en- 
tered as  personal  expenses.  I  have  one 
helper  to  whom  I  pay  six  dollars  per 
week  with  her  living.  The  table  linen 
and  dish  towels  are  sent  to  the  laundry. 
At  first,  we  tried  having  it  done  at  home, 
but  we  found  that  it  did  not  pay. 

The  meals  are  planned  for  a  week 
at  a  time,  being  arranged  to  use  up 
left-over  meats.  We  use  these  as  skil- 
fully as  possible.  Never  are  Sunday 
left  overs  served  on  Monday,  but  by 
Tuesday  noon  they  may  be  disguised 
and  served  with  impunity.  By  com- 
paring the  menus  with  those  of  the 
previous  week,  we  never  get  into  a 
routine.  As  fast  as  a  recipe  which 
serves  twenty  is  worked  out,  it  is  filed 
so  that  when  the  dish  is  repeated  there 
will  be  none  wasted.  I  study  the  likes 
and  dislikes  of  my  family  and  never 
serve  any  one  what  they  do  not  eat,  if 
it  can  be  avoided.    A  dab  of  something 


544 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


which  otherwise  might  not  be  used  will 
replace  the  food,  and  the  psychological 
effect  is  very  pleasant.  The  family 
feel  they  are  being  cared  for  and  that 
their  boarding  house  is  not  a  machine 
passing  out  their  food  with  rythmic 
regularity.  As  the  people  I  serve  are 
leading  sedentary  occupations,  the  meals 
are  light  and  well  balanced  and  an 
excess  of  protein  is  avoided. 

The  noonday  meal  costs  much  thought, 
but  little  money.  We  make  them  as 
dainty  and  attractive  as  possible,  so 
that  they  refresh  the  mind  as  well  as 
the  body.  Soups,  salads,  and  hot  breads 
with  marmalades  are  favorites.  Noth- 
ing is  ever  served  that  is  sloppy  with 
gravy  running  all  over  the  plate. 

We  rise  at  six  o'clock.  The  maid 
and  I  start  breakfast,  and,  after  fixing 
the  furnace,  one  of  the  girls  dusts  and 
the  other  starts  the  grate  fire  Then 
they  both  set  the  table.  Before  we 
invested  in  a  cart  we  put  the  glasses 
and  silver,  after  being  washed,  in  a 
market  basket,  because  they  were  so 
easy  to  carry  into  the  dining-room. 
The  cereal  is  started  the  night  before 
and  placed  in  the  fireless  cooker.  The 
grape-fruit  also  is  prepared  the  night 
before.  While  getting  breakfast,  we 
have  Itmch  and  dinner  in  mind  and  use 
all  ^pare  moments  in  getting  vegetables 
or  fruits  ready.  Canned  vegetables 
have  a  better  flavor,  if  they  are  opened, 
poured  into  another  dish  and  aerated 
before  they  are  cooked.  Lettuce  is 
bought  by  the  crate.  It  is  washed, 
put  in  a  crock,  and  covered  with  a  damp 
cloth.  It  will  keep  crisp  in  a  cold 
place  for  several  days.  Breakfast  is 
served  from  seven  to  seven  forty-five, 
so  that  by  eight  o'clock  the  dining-room 
is  usually  empty. 

The  dining-room  is  swept  and  put 
in  order  and  then  we  wash  the  dishes. 
We  have  wire  racks  for  most  of  them, 
so  that  by  plunging  them  into  very  hot 
water  and  setting  them  aside  to  drain, 
they  do  not  need  to  be  dried.  While 
the  maid  is  tending  to  the  rest  of  the 


house,  I  do  my  ordering  or  go  out  to 
market.  Then  comes  the  baking.  We 
bake  nearly  all  our  own  bread  and  all 
the  cake  and  pie  we  use.  While  this 
is  going  on,  the  preparations  for  the 
evening  dinner  are  under  way.  If  the 
dessert  is  to  be  an  ice,  the  syrup  is  made 
and  the  fruit  juice  prepared.  The 
meat  or  fish  is  fixed  or,  at  least,  the  pans 
are  made  ready.  When  the  dishes  are 
washed  after  lunch  and  the  dining-room 
and  kitchen  put  in  order,  we  are  free 
until  five  o'clock.  Of  course  this  is 
not  always  true,  but  usually  we  manage 
it. 

After  a  complete  rest  for  an  hour,  I 
usually  spend  an  hour  at  my  desk 
working  over  accounts  and  planning 
work  for  the  next  day.  Then  I  go 
somewhere  for  a  walk,  if  the  weather  is 
good.  One  afternoon,  I  let  accounts 
go  and  run  away  for  a  while.  If  I 
can't  do  this,  I  open  my  window  and 
take  deep  breaths,  going  back  to  my 
work  with  renewed  vigor.  To  be  able 
to  relax,  with  one's  mind  at  ease,  is  a 
wonderful  boon  to  any  housekeeper.- 

At  dinner,  I  preside  at  the  head  of 
the  table  and  one  of  my  sisters  at  the 
foot.  Some  of  the  guests  have  asked 
to  be  allowed  to  dish  things,  so  we  have 
a  homelike  atmosphere.  Once  or  twice 
during  the  week  we  have  candles  on  the 
table.  They  are  not  expensive  and  give 
a  festive  air.  As  I  wear  simple  wash 
dresses,  I  leave  my  apron  in  the  kitchen 
and  I  am  ready  to  greet  them,  although 
sometimes  my  face  is  pretty  flushed 
and  my  nose  shiny.  As  hostess,  I  can 
lead  the  conversation  into  topics  of 
mutual  interest  and  avoid  gossip.  In 
this  way  I  keep  in  touch  with  the  outside 
world.  The  discussions  become  very 
lively  and  interesting. 

But  the  important  question  is  — 
does  it  pay  ?  I  can  honestly  reply  that 
it  does,  for  all  expenses  are  met  and  there 
is  still  enough  left  to  give  me  a  salary  and 
pay  an  interest  on  our  capital  invested. 
We  consider  our  home,  equipment,  and 
dishes  as  capital.     Of  course  it  is  hard 


WHAT  A  EUROPEAN  TRIP  MAY  TEACH  A   MOTHER 


545 


work,  but  it  is  work  that  requires  intel- 
ligence. I  feel  I  have  grown  both 
mentally  and  physically  in  the  past  two 
years.  There  are  times  of  discourage- 
ment, but  when  I  see  my  happy  family, 
I  feel  that  I  am  doing  more  than  earning 


a  living,  I  am  actuaUy  contributing  to 
the  physical  well  being  of  twenty  indi- 
viduals. Are  my  boarders  satisfied? 
I  think  they  are.  Only  two  have  left 
us,  and  then  not  from  dissatisfaction, 
and  I  have  a  long  waiting  list. 


What  a  European  Trip  May  Teach  a  Mother 


By  Elsie  S.  Eells 


ARTISTS,  musicians,  writers, 
teachers,  all  gain  inspiration 
for  their  work  in  the  old  world. 
Mothers,  too,  may  at  least  find  food  for 
thought  in  foreign  travel.  Much  may 
be  learned  by  observing  the  methods 
the  mothers  of  other  nations  use  in 
training  their  children. 

Let  one  just  notice  the  children  one 
sees  at  the  railway  stations  and  in  the 
trains  as  one  travels  in  England  and 
on  the  continent.  Compare  them  with 
the  children  one  sees  when  one  travels 
in  America.  In  America  the  child  is, 
almost  without  exception,  the  center 
of  the  group  of  admiring  relatives  and 
friends  who  accompany  his  family  to 
the  station  to  bid  them  farewell  or  come 
to  welcome  them  upon  their  arrival. 
AH  eyes,  including  those  of  his  parents, 
are  focused  upon  him.  What  wiU  the 
little  dear  do  or  say  next?  The  answer 
to  this  question  is  awaited  with  breath- 
less interest.  Not  so  in  Europe.  How 
different  the  attitude'  There  the  child 
is  treated  as  a  side  issue  and  the  grown- 
ups occupy  the  center  of  the  stage.  One 
soon  sees  why  it  is  that  the  people  of 
other  lands  accuse  the  American  child 
of  not  knowing  his  place.  It  is  not  the 
American  child's  fault  that  he  expects 
to  be  the  center  of  interest.  He  has 
been  trained  to  it  from  his  babyhood. 
Are  there  not  advantages  in  character 
building  to  be  gained  from  the  European 
method?  The  thoughtful  mother  may 
well  ponder  over  the  problem. 


In  hotels  and  restaurants  one  has  the 
opportimity  to  observe  the  table  manners 
of  other  children,  even  if  one  is  not 
privileged  to  enter  more  intimately  into 
foreign  family  life.  The  chief  reason 
that  the  small  English  child  eats  more 
gracefully  than  the  little  American  is 
that  Americans  use  their  forks  as  shov- 
els, as  the  English  accuse  us  of  doing. 
**Tines  down"  is  the  rule  for  forks  in 
England.  This  rule  is  growing  more 
common  in  America  and  it  should  be 
practiced  in  all  homes  where  there  are 
small  boys  to  train.  It  is  impossible 
to  overload  a  fork,  held  "tines  down" 
to  such  an  extent  as  one  held  with  the 
tines  up.  Overcrowding  the  mouth 
is  the  worst  fault  in  table  etiquette 
among  American  small  boys  and  adopt- 
ing the  English  method  overcomes  it 
at  once.  The  *' tines  down'*  rule  for 
forks  is  followed  in  all  other  civilized 
lands  much  more  than  in  America.  I 
was  at  first  amused  to  notice  that,  in 
English  homes,  when  the  child  left 
something  uneaten  upon  his  plate,  he 
always  said  to  his  mother  or  to  the 
hostess,  **  Please  excuse  me  if  I  leave 
this  upon  my  plate."  I  never  spoke 
of  it  to  an  English  mother,  but  it  evi- 
dently is  taught  to  the  children  that  it 
is  a  breach  of  etiquette  to  leave  morsels 
of  food  upon  one's  plate.  A  child's 
eyes  are,  proverbially,  * 'larger  than  his 
stomach"  and  does  not  the  English 
method  give  him  good  training  in 
accurate  judgment? 


546 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Germany    can    teach    the    American 
mother   much   concerning   fanfiily   life. 
In    the    outdoor    refreshment  garden, 
which  one  finds  everywhere  in  Germany, 
it  is  interesting  to  watch  the  family 
groups.     The  children  are  not  left  at 
home  with  the  servants  or  a  grandmother, 
but  share  their  parents  pleasures.     Far 
too  often  in  America  the  father  takes 
his    recreation    one    way,    the    mother 
another,  and  the  children,  as  many  dif- 
ferent ways  as  there  are  children.     May 
we    not    well    follow    the    example    of 
the    Germans    and    bind    our    families 
more  closely  together  by  sharing  our 
pleasures?     One  frequently  sees  a  fam- 
ily  tramping   party.     The   father   and 
mother  each  carry  a  knapsack  and  each 
of  the  children  carries  one  suited  to  his 
size.     Are  there  not  American  families 
who  would  find  benefit  and  enjoyment 
in  such  a  vacation?    The  German  fam- 
ily surely  thrives  by  such  a  method. 
Boy  Scout  tramping  parties  are  good, 
but  are  they  equal  to  the  family  tramp- 
ing party?    The  German  child  is  not 
only  taught  to  enjoy  a  wholesome  out- 
of-door    life    in    the    company    of    his 
parents  and  under  their  influence,  but 
he  is  also  taught  a  wholesome  respect 
for  law.     We  may  admire  the  border  of 
fruit  trees  which  lines  every  German 
roadside  and  wish  that  such  a  system 
could  be  established  in  America,  that 
wholesome  fruit  might  thereby  become 
cheaper    and    more    plentiful.     Would 
not  the  guardians  of  such  fruit  have 
a  far  more  difficult  time,  however,  in 
America,  in  warding  off  the  deprada- 
tions  of  small  boys  ?     The  workingman's 


garden  at  the  outskirts  of  the  town  would 
bring  better  food  supplies  to  the  Amer- 
ican as  well  as  to  the  Gennan  working- 
man,  but  would  not  the  produce  be 
stolen,  or,  as  we  say,  * 'swiped?''  Amer- 
ica is  the  land  of  liberty,  but  is  it  not 
in  danger  of  becoming  a  land  of  law- 
lessness ?  Each  American  mother  should 
teach  her  child  obedience  and  respect 
for  those  in  authority.  These  old- 
fashioned  virtues  are  in  danger  of  falling 
into  disrepute  in  otu*  land.  Travel 
in  Germany  brings  home  this  truth. 

As  an  American  mother,  it  is  en- 
couraging to  say  that  the  most  badly 
behaved  child  I  ever  saw  in  my  life, 
was  seen  in  Germany.  I  have  seen 
many  badly  behaved  children  in  Amer- 
ica, but  never  one  quite  equal  to  the 
'One  in  Germany,  the  land  of  law  and 
order.  He  was  five  years  old  and 
his  parents  were  trying  the  theory  of 
letting  his  yotmg  character  develop 
according  to  nature.  The  result  was 
that  his  baby  sister  screamed  with 
terror  when  he  approached  her,  and 
the  dogs  and  cats  hastened  out  of 
his  way  with  all  possible  speed.  He 
called  his  grandmother  all  sorts  of 
vile  names.  The  epithets  he  applied 
to  her  and  to  the  servants  are  untrans- 
latable. When  I  spoke  of  him  to  an 
American  friend,  I  was  reminded  that 
corporal  punishment  still  prevails  in 
the  German  schools,  and  after  the 
schools  there  is  the  army.  Perhaps 
there  is  hope  of  his  becoming  a  law- 
abiding  citizen  after  all.  Anyway  it 
is  cheering  to  know  that  not  all  naughty 
children  Uve  in  America. 


Saint  Valentine 


The  good  old  saint,  who  plods  through  drifting 
(;   snow. 

When  February's  winds  pipe  loud,  pipe  low, 
Comes  laden  with  his  gifts  so  quaint,  so  dear. 
And  'tis  his  mission,  rare,  to  bless  and  cheer. 


He  wakens  tender  hopes,  and  visions  start. 
He  sets  to  pulsing  every  quiet  heart. 
And  like  the  springtime,  tells  each  waiting  one — 
"Rejoice,  for  see,  the  world  is  glad  and  young!" 

.    Alix  Thorn 


IDEAS   Lr 
ECONOMl&S 


Contributions  to  this  deputment  will  be  gladly  received.     Accepted  items  will  be 
paid  for  at  reasonable  rates. 


The  Poultry  of  Old  Neptune 
By  Josephine  Wright. 

SINCE  the  high  cost  of  poultry 
has  made  of  it  a  luxury,  no  sub- 
stitute has  been  accepted  with 
the  favor  that  is  accorded  tuna,  the 
turkey  of  the  ocean.  Its  flaky  white 
meat,  in  appearance  and  flavor  very 
like  the  breast-meat  of  turkey,  may  be 
used  to  advantage  in  nearly  ^  recipes 
calling  for  the  meat  of  poultry.  It  is 
eaten  and  enjoyed  by  many  who  dis- 
like other  fish  in  any  form.  It  is  being 
canned  and  sent  into  the  interior  where 
its  sale  is  rivaling  that  of  salmon. 

One  of  the  most  popular  methods 
of  experimentation  in  things  culinary 
is  in  the  making  of  sandwiches. 

Tuna    Sandwiches 

1  cup  fiaked  tuna,  Bhp-    I   1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 
chopped  1  teaspoon,  each,  tar- 

2  teaspoons    creamed  ragon,  chervil,  gher- 
butter                           I      kins 

Put  into  a  bowl  and  blend  lightly, 
adding  a  dash  of  paprika  and  one  of 
nutmeg,  before  spreading  the  mixture 
on  very  thin  white  bread.  A  paste  bet- 
ter suited  for  dark  bread  sandwiches 
may  be  made  as  follows: 


3  hard-boiled  eggs 
2  tablespoons  butter 
\  teaspoon  dry  mustard 


i  cup  tuna 
1  teaspoon   chopped 
capers 


Make  a  paste  of  the  fish  and  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs.  Chop  the  whites  very  fine 
and  add  with  all  other  ingredients.  If 
the  paste  seems  dry,  add  a  little  vine- 
gar and  sweet  oil. 


Tuna  Souffle 

2  tablespoons  butter    j        j  cup  milk 

3  tablespoons  dour  1  cup  tuna 
t  teaspoon  salt                     3  eggs 
Cayenne                       | 

Melt  the  butter  in  cooking  dish;  add 
flour,  seasoning  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Add  milk,  stirring  constantly  until  sauce 
is  thick  and  smooth.  Remove  to  asbes- 
tos mat  and  add  well-beaten  yolks  and 
tuna.  Cool,  Add  stiff-beaten  whites, 
turn  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  and 
bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven. 
Eat  at  once. 

Tuna  Toast 
6  blocks  dry  bread    I   \  cup  Hollandaise 
2  cups  flaked  tuna    |   1  tablespoon  butter 

Cut  the  center  from  each  block  of 
bread,  leaving  a  thin  layer  on  the  bot- 
tom. Sautfi  the  bread-cups  thus  made 
in  butter.  Heat  the  tuna  in  the  Hol- 
landaise and  serve  in  the  hot  crisp 
toast.     Garnish   with   parsely. 

Tuna  Loaf 
1  cup  bread  crumbs  I    1  egg 
1  cup  flaked  tuna  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  sweet  milk        |    Onion  juice 

Beat  the  eggs  until  it  is  light.  Put 
all  the  ingredients  into  a  bowl  and  mix 
well.  Press  the  mixture  into  a  but- 
tered loaf -pan  and  bake  twenty-five  min- 
utes. Garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs 
and  serve  with  drawn  butter. 

Drawn  Butter  for  Tuna  Loap 
1  cup  hot  water  j  1  tablespoon  flour 
\  cup  butter  1    tablesooon    lemon 

Salt  and  pepper  |  juice 

Melt    butter    and    add    flour,    Add 


548 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


gradually  all  other  ingredients.     Bring 
to  a  boil. 


Tuna  in  Peppers 

1  cup  sweet  milk 
6  bell  peppers 
Salt  and  butter 


I 


2  cups  tuna 

1  cup  bread  crumbs 

4  eg£s 

Cut  the  peppers  in  halves,  lengthwise. 
Remove  the  seeds  and  put  peppers  to 
soak  in  very  cold  water.  Beat  the  eggs 
slightly  and  add  the  milk,  the  tunja, 
bread  crumbs  and  seasoning.  Pack  the 
mixture  into  the  peppers  and  sprinkle 
over  the  top  bread  crumbs  and  a  little 
butter.     Brown  in  the  oven  and  eat  hot. 

Tuna  Salad 

3  cups  tuna  1 1  cup  thick  mayonnaise 

1  cup  diced  celery  J  cup  French  dressing 

1  hard-boiled  egg  !  i  cup  chooped  olives 

1  green  pepper,  shredded  | 

If  this  salad  be  properly  made,  it  will 
prove  more  delicious  than  the  most  in- 
viting chicken  salad.  Several  hours 
before  it  is  to  be  served,  mix  the  tuna, 
celery,  chopped  egg  and  green  pepper 
lightly  together,  adding  the  French  dres- 
sing gradually.  Just  before  serving  add 
the  chopped  olives  and  toss  lightly 
again.  Put  it  into  its  salad  bowl  and 
arrange  the  thick  mayonnaise  over  the 
top. 

Chop  Suey  with  Tuna 


'  the  pan.  Beat  in  the  eggs,  one  at  a 
time.  Drop  the  mixtiire  onto  buttered 
paper  in  long  fingers.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate over  until  thoroughly  done.  When 
cold,  split  open  with  a  sharp  knife,  put 
a  spoonful  of  tuna  salad  into  each  cache 
and  replace  the  top. 

Tuna  in  Shells 


1  lb.  fresh  pork 
1  cup  tuna»  flaked 
I  cup  diced  celery 
1  cup  chopped  onions 


1  cup  chopped  peanuts 
1  can  mushrooms 
1  tablespoonf ul  butter 
Salt  and  pepper 


Put  the  butter  into  a  deep  iron  fry- 
ing-pan. Saut6  the  pork,  celery  and 
onions.  Cut  the  pork  into  small  pieces. 
Cover  with  a  cup  of  water,  the  mush- 
rooms and  the  liquor  from  them.  Boil 
slowly  for  an  hour.  Add  peanuts,tuna 
and  seasoning  and  cook  half  an  hour 
longer. 

Tuna  Cache 


1  quart  tuna  salad 
i  cup  butter 


1  cap  flour 
4  eggs 


Put  the  butter  into  the  water  and 
bring  to  a  boil.  Beat  the  flour  into  this 
and  take  from  the  fire.  Stir  this^  dough 
until  it  no  longer  sticks  to  the  sides  of 


2  cups  flaked  tuna 
4  eggs 

3  tablespoons  butter 


}  cup  cream 
1  lemon  (juice) 
Salt  and  pepper 


Parmesan  cheese 

Hard  cook  two  of  the  eggs.  Cream 
the  butter  and  rub  into  it  the  yolks. 
Add  now,  in  the  order  given  —  lemon 
juice,  salt  and  pepper,  tima,  chopped 
whites,  cream  and  two  beaten  eggs. 
Mix  well  and  turn  into  buttered  baking- 
shells.  Cover  with  Parmesan  cheese  and 
brown  in  the  oven. 

It  must  be  remembered,  in  the  fore- 
going recipes,  that  the  flaked  tuna  is 
the  meat  as  it  comes  prepared  in  cans 
Of  coiu*se,  if  the  fresh  fish  be  used,  it 
must  be  cooked. 

In  some  of  the  recipes  salmon  may 
be  subsitiuted  with  success,  but  not  in 
all.  Tuna  is  free  from  the  oily,  fishy 
taste  that  salmon  has  and  might  be 
undesirable  in  some  of  the  dishes. 


A  New  Way  to  Cook  Eggs 

A  FRIEND  long  resident  in  France 
and  familar  with  the  various  ome- 
lets and  soufil6s  made  there  recently 
tried  an  experiment  in  her  American 
home,  which  proved  a  marked  success. 
It  is  a  dish  of-  eggs  resembling  both 
baked  omelet  and  a  souf96.  She  takes 
fresh  eggs  and  breaks  them  together, 
adding  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water 
for  every  two  eggs,  a  little  salt  and 
some  rather  fine-chopped  parsley.  This 
combination  is  whisked  a  very  little, 
perhaps,  about  six  times,  and  poured 
into  a  buttered  agate  dish.  For  six 
eggs  she  uses  one  about  the  size  of  a 
large  coffee  saucer.  This  she  places  low 
over  the  burners  of  her  gas  oven,  light- 
ing two  btimers  after  she  has  put  the 


HOME   IDEAS   AND  ECONOMIES 


549 


dish  in.  As  soon  as  the  eggs  have 
risen  well  up  to  the  top  of  the  high 
dish,  turn  off  one  burner,  and  as  soon  as 
weU  set,  turn  off  the  other,  leaving  the 
eggs  in  a  few  minutes  longer.  They 
must  not  remain  over  twenty  minutes  at 
the  most,  and  often  fifteen  will  be 
enough,  depending  upon  the  flow  of 
gas. 

The  lower  crust  is  tender,  not  firm, 
and  the  center  is  flaky,  neither  like 
scrambled  eggj  — nor  is  it  wholly  like 
omelet. 

The  parsley  gives  it  a  good  taste; 
pepper  may  be  added,  also,  with  the  salt, 
and  red  pepper,  for  those  who  Uke  it, 
mixed  with  either  white  or  black  pep- 
per. 

Also,  one  may  add  a  chopped  red  or 
green  sweet  pepper,  some  onion,  or 
chives;  or  rub  the  bowl  in  which  the 
eggs  were  beaten  with  garlic.  Sweet 
herbs  may  be  used  according  to  taste; 
and  since  families  and  persons  vary  so 
much  in  their  likes  and  dislikes  no  set 
combinations  are  given. 

Chervil  mixed  with  the  parsley  is 
nice,  and  sweet  basil,  summer  savory, 
thyme,  etc.,  may  be  used. 

To  make  a  sweet  course  for  a  lunch- 
eon, add  some  candied  cherries  and 
make  a  sauce  of  the  liquid  to  serve  at 
the  table.  Add  sugar  to  sweeten,  if 
desired,  or  sprinkle  the  top  with  sugar 
and  score  with  a  hot  iron  in  the  foreign 
and  old-fashioned  way,  if  desired,  but 
the  crust  of  this  dish  on  top  is  very 
attractive. 

Potato  Cups  Instead  of  Timbales 

Oftentimes,  for  one's  family  or  the 
sudden  arrival  of  friends  to  luncheon, 
there  is  sudden  consternation  as  to 
"What  we  can  fix  quickly  that  is  attrac- 
tive?" 

Should  there  be  large  potatoes  on 
hand,  cut  these  in  halves  or  thirds  to 
make  cups;  pare  them,  of  course,  and 
cut  off  ends  so  they  will  stand.  All 
pieces  cut  out  of  the  centres  for  cups, 


or  from  the  ends,  need  not  be  wasted. 
Boil  in  salted  water.  Take  any  bits 
of  cold  vegetable,  such  as  peas  or  cauil- 
flower,  and  make  a  rich  cream  sauce. 
Use  this  for  filling  the  potato  cups. 
A  little  "goes  further*'  and  looks  more 
attractive  this  way.  A  mixture  of  veg- 
etables may  be  made,  such  as  one  buys 
in  the  foreign  macedoines  and  Ameri- 
can combinations  of  ten  or  more;  lima 
beans,  string  beans,  pease,  carrot,  tur- 
nip or  kohl  rabi,  etc. 

Garnish  with  celery  leaves,   parsley 
or  watercress,  if  possible. 

J.D.C. 


New  Ideas  for  St.  Valentine's  Day 

THE  revival  of  the  celebration  of 
St.  Valentine's  day,  with  its  quaint 
old  customs,  has  given  an  opportu- 
nity for  girls  to  use  bright  and  original 
ideas  in  giving  luncheons  and  other 
social  festivities. 

One  young  hostess,  who  entertained 
a  girls'  embroidery  club  at  luncheon, 
prepared  for  each  guest  a  valentine, 
which  was  a  square  card,  with  a  hand- 
painted  cupid  or  a  cluster  of  rosebuds 
for  decoration,  and  an  original  verse. 
These  cards  were  enclosed  in  envelopes 
bearing  the  names  of  the  guests  and 
laid  on  the  table  to  designate  the  places. 

Another  girl,  who  was  away  from 
home,  sent  to  a  group  of  her  girl  friends 
love  tokens  which  she  had  made  her- 
self. These  were  simply  sheets  of  heavy 
writing  paper,  with  original  verses,  and 
tiny  cupids  and  hearts,  cut  from  red 
paper  in  silhouettes  and  pasted  on 
irregularly  as  a  border. 

One  young  woman,  who  was  in  col- 
lege and  often  homesick,  was  delighted 
when  she  received  a  number  of  Val- 
entine postals  from  her  home  town. 
These  were  sent  by  her  high  school 
chtmis  and  each  one  bore  an  original 
verse  or  pretty  quotation  suitable  for 
the  fourteenth  of  February. 

N.  F.  M. 


THIS  department  Is  for  the  benefit  and  ffee  me  of  our  mbflcriben.  Quesdona  i 
to  redpea,  and  those  pertaining  to  culinary  adence  and  domestic  ecooomica  in  zenecml, 
win  be  cheerfully  answered  by  the  editor.  Cbrnmunications  for  this  department  must  reach  us  before 
the  first  of  the  month  preceding  that  in  which  the  answera  are  expected  to  4>pear.  In  letters  requestu^ 
answers  by  mail,  please  endose  addressed  and  stamped  envdope.  For  menus  remit  S1.0(X  Addreai 
queries  to  Janet  M.Hill,  Editor.  Bottom  Coome-ScaoaL  H«iunn,372  Boylatoo  St.,  Boston,  Maoa. 


Hungarian  Goulash 


las) 


QUEK 


2122.- 


'Redpe  for  Hungarian  Gou- 


2  pounds  of  lean  beef, 
shoulder  steak 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  vin- 
egar 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  fine- 
cut  omon 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 

1   level   tablespoonful  of 


i    a   cup   of  cream, 

1  teaapoonful  of  salt 
i  a    teaspoonful    of 

caraway  seed 
i    a    teaspoonful  of 

sweet  marjoram 
Paprika  to  taste 
)  a  cup  of  hot  water 

or  broth 

Cut  the  meat  in  half-inch  cubes,  put 
in  a  granite  dish  (not  tin),  add  vinegar 
and  salt,  and  let  stand  an  hour  or  two. 
Heat  the  butter  in  a  porcelain-lined 
iron  kettle;  add  the  onions  and  cook 
until  tender,  not  brown;  add  meat  and 
spices,  and  cover  close  so  the  steam  will 
not  escape;  let  simmer  slowly  until  the 
moisture  is  absorbed  and  brown,  stirring 
often.  Add  half  a  cup  of  hot  broth  or 
water  and  the  flour  mixed  in  cold  water. 
Just  before  serving,  add  the  cream  and 
shake  in  paprika  to  taste. 

a  Relisl. 

rved  with 

meat  and  fish  dishes." 

Pepper  and  Onion  Relish 

Peel  six  white  onions;  cut  six  red  and 
six  green  peppers  in  halves  and  remove 
the  seeds;  chop  fine  the  onions  and 
peppers  with  half  a  cup  of  parsley  leaves, 
cover  the  whole  with  boiling  water,  set 
a  plate  above  and  let  stand  five  minutes ; 
drain,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  salt  and  two  cups  of  vinegar; 


let  boil  half  an  hour;  seal  in  small  cans' 

QdeR¥  2123.— "Recipes  for  Plain  Griddle 
Cakes,  Griddle  Cakes  made  with  white  commeal 
and  Buckwheat  Griddle  Calces  made  with  yeast 
overnight." 

Plain  Griddle  Cakes 

1  cup  of  Mfted  flour  I  1  cup  of  thick  sour 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt  milk 

1    level    teaspoonful  of     }    a    teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder  {     soda 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter 

Sift  together  the  flour,  salt  and  bajdng 
powder;  sift  the  soda  into  the  milk 
(measure  the  soda  rather  generously), 
mix  thoroughly  and  stir  with  the  butter 
into  the  dry  mixture.  An  egg,  beaten 
light  is  an  improvement.  A  little  sweet 
milk  may  be  needed. 

White    Cornmeal    Griddle    Cakes 

tablespoonful     of 


1  egg,  beaten  light 

1  cup  of  sweet  milk 

2  tablespoonfuls  of 
mdted  butter 


i  a  cup  of  white  c 

meal 
{  a  cup  of  flour 
2}  level  teaspoonfuls  of 

baking  powder 
}  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 

At  night  scald  the  milk  and  pour  over 
the  com  meal,  mix,  cover  and  let  stand 
until  morning;  sift  together  the  dry 
it^redients  and  add  to  the  meal  with 
the  butter  and  egg.  Mix  and  bake. 
More  milk  may  be  needed.  These  are 
often  made  with  sour  milk  and  soda 
in  the  same  maimer  as  Plain  Griddle 
Cakes.    Sour  cream  gives  choice  griddle 


Buckwheat  Griddle  Cakes 
Scald  one  cup  of  milk;  add  one  cup 


QUERIES   AND   ANSWERS 


551 


of  boiling  water  and  poiir  over  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  commeal)  not  granu- 
lated) ;  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
mix,  cover  and  let  stand  until  lukewarm; 
then  add  one-third  a  cake  of  compressed 
yeast,  mixed  with  one-fotirth  a  cup  of 
lukewarm  water,  one  cup  and  a  half  of 
buckwheat  flour  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  sugar.  Beat  imtil  perfectly  smooth; 
cover  and  let  stand  overnight.  The 
first  thing  in  the  morning  stir  down  and 
set  in  a  warm  place.  When  ready  to 
bake,  add  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda  mixed  in  a  tablespoonful  of  water; 
beat  again  and  bake. 

Query  2124. — "Recipe  for  Potted  Cheese  and 
how  best  to  keep  it." 

Potted  Cheese 

We  have  had  no  experience  in  potting 
cheese.  One  might  try  the  following 
method,  with  a  very  small  quantity  and 
see  how  it  worked.  Press  the  cheese, 
while  soft,  into  an  earthen  or  glass  jar; 
use  a  pestle  in  putting  the  cheese  into 
the  jar,  that  no  small  air  space  be  left; 
pour  on  melted  butter  or  other  choice 
fat  to  the  depth  of  half  an  inch;  cover 
with  a  stout  cloth,  tying  it  on  close. 
Store  in  a  cool  place  of  even  temperature. 

Query  2125. — "Supper  Menus  containing  in- 
expensive and  nourisning  dishes  suitable  for 
nurses  and  employees  in  a  hospital  are  desired.'' 

Supper  Menus  for  Nurses  in  Hos- 
pitals 
I 

Creamed  Corned  Beef 
(Cream  sauce  flavored  delicately  with  onion  and 

celery) 

White  Hashed  Potatoes 

Bread  and  Butter 

Stewed  Prunes 

Tea 

II 
Cheese  Pudding  or  Custard 

Celery 

Graham  Bread  and  Butter 

Hot  Apple  Sauce 

Cookies  or  Gingerbread 

Tea 

III 

Scalloped  Tomatoes 
Whole  Wheat  Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Chocolate  Nut  Cake 
Cocoa  Tea 


IV 

Cream  of  Com  Soup 

Browned  Crackers 

Bread  and  Butter 

Apple  Sauce 

Tea 


Creamed  Salt  Codfish 
Baked  Potatoes 
Com  Bread  White  Bread 

Butter  Pickled  Beets 

Tea 

VI 

Cold  Corned  Beef.  Sliced  Thin 

Creamed  Potatoes 

Graham  Bread  and  Butter 

Water  Sponge  Cake 

Dried  Peaches*  Stewed 

Tea 

VII 

Stewed  Lima  Beans 

Rye  Meal  Muffins 

White  Bread 

Marmalade 

Tea 

VIII 
String  Bean  Salad  with  Hard-Cooked  Eggs 

Bread  and  Butter 
Gingerbread 
Tea  Cocoa 

IX 

Fresh  Fish  Chowder 

Crackers 

Sliced  Oranges  (February) 

Cofifee 

X 

Tomato  Bisque 
Browned  Crackers 
Sliced  Oranges,  Dates  and  Bananas 
Bread  and  Butter 
Tea 


Query  2126  — "Recipes  for  Stuffed  Heart  and 
for  cooking  Tripe." 

Stuffed  Heart 

Wash  and  cleanse  the  heart.  Wipe 
dry,  and  fill  the  cavities  with  bread 
dressing.  Draw  the  sides  together  at 
the  top  with  a  needle  threaded  with 
twine,  to  hold  in  the  dressing.  Set  on 
a  rack  in  a  steam  kettle,  and  cook 
about  three  hours  or  until  nearly  tender, 
then  dredge  with  flour,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Cook  in  the  oven  about  half  an  hour, 
basting  three  or  four, times  with  bacon 
or^salt-pork  fat.  Serve  hot,  surrounded 
with  buttered  string  beans  or  peas,*  or 
with  tomato  sauce.    To  serve,  begin  at 


552 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


the  pointed  end,  and  cut  in  thin  slices. 
Serve,  also,  cold  with  salad;  or  cut  in 
cubes,  in  cream  sauce;  or  with  potatoes, 
green  peppers,  and  bacon  £is  hash. 

Dressing  for  Stuffed  Heart 

Mix  one  cup  of  soft  bread  crumbs, 
one-third  a  cup  of  butter  and  one-fourth 
a  teaspoonful.  each,  of  salt,  black  pepper 
and  thyme. 

Baked  Tripe,  Spanish  Style 

Boil  four  pounds  of  fresh  tripe  until 
tender;  drain  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  arrange  in  a  well-buttered 
dish.  Potu*  over  it  one  quart  of  chopped 
tomatoes,  one  large  onion,  sliced  very 
thin,  one-half  a  cup  of  chopped  parsley, 
skin  of  one  large  red  pepper,  minced 
fine,  one-half  a  cup  of  chopped  olives 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  Tabasco  sauce. 
Pour  over  all  one-half  a  cup  of  melted 
butter,  and  bake  one  hour. 

Broiled  Tripe  with  Bacon  Rolls 

Simmer  fresh  tripe  in  boiling  water 
until  very  tender  (it  will  take  five  or  six 
hours  of  cooking);  add  salt  during  the 
last  of  the  cooking.  Drain,  and  set 
aside  in  a  covered  dish  until  ready  to 
use.  Brush  over  the  portion  to  be  used 
(honeycomb  tripe  is  considered  the  best) 
with  partly  melted  butter  or  bacon  fat, 
and  set  to  cook  over  the  coals  or  under 
the  gas  burner.  Let  cook  three  or  four 
minutes,  then  remove  to  a  hot  platter, 
season  with  a  little  salt,  if  needed,  and 
spread  over  the  top  as  many  slices  of 
broiled  bacon  as  there  are  individuals 
to  serve.  Bacon  rolls  may  replace  the 
broiled  bacon.  To  prepare  these,  run 
a  toothpick  through  each  slice  of  bacon, 
rolled  up  like  a  jelly  roll,  immerse  all 
at  once  (in  a  basket)  in  hot,  deep  fat, 
let  cook  a  minute,  then  drain,  and  use 
as  specified.  A  quarter  of  a  lemon 
should  accompany  each  portion. 


Crab  meat  may  be  served  in  cream 
Sauce  or  tomato  sauce;  in  the  form  of 
timbales,  soufflfe,  mousse,  mousselines, 
salad  or  croquettes.  We  have  given  it 
in  these  pages,  deviled,  in  shells  and 
au  gratin;  it  has  also  appeared  as  crab 
flake  mousse.  For  the  latter  dish  use 
the  recipe  given  in  this  issue  for  Ham 
Mousse  and  serve  with  HoUandaise 
sauce.  For  soufflfe  use  the  recipe  for 
Ham  Souffl6. 

Grab  Meat  Timbales 

Chop  fine  one  solid  cup  of  crab  meat, 
beat  into  it  four  eggs,  one  after  another, 
then  three-fourths  a  teaspoonfvd  of  salt 
and  one  pint  of  cream;  beat  in  the  cream 
gradually.  Butter  about  one  dozen 
small  molds  and  fill  with  the  mixture- 
Set  the  molds  on  many  folds  of  paper 
in  a  baking  dish  and  surround  with 
boiling  water;  let  cook,  without  boiling 
the  water,  in  the  oven,  tmtil  firm  in  the 
center.  It  will  take  about  twenty  min- 
utes. Serve,  unmolded,  with  HoUan- 
daise  or  drawn  butter  sauce. 

Crab  Meat  Croquettes 


i  a  cup  of  butter 
i  a  cup  of  flour 
1  cup  of  milk 
i  a  cup  of  cream 


1  egg,  beaten  light 
i  a  teaspoonful  of    salt 
1  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice 


Query    2127. — "Recipes   for   Cooking   Crab 
Meat." 

Cooking  Crab  Meat 


li  cups  of  crab  meat 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  salt 
and  a  dash  of  pepper  and  cook  until 
well  blended;  add  the  milk  and  cream 
and  stir  tintil  smooth  and  boiling;  add 
the  egg  and  let  cook  without  boiling, 
until  the  egg  is  "set;"  add  the  lemon 
juice  and  crab  meat.  Mix  thoroughly 
and  turn  on  to  a  plate,  cover  with  a 
buttered  paper  and  let  chill.  Shape 
as  desired,  cover  with  a  beaten  egg 
diluted  with  about  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  milk,  and  then  with  soft,  sifted  bread 
crtunbs.    Fry  in  deep  fat. 

Query  2128. — "Please  publish  something 
about  the  value  of  Lentils  as  food,  also  recipes  for 
using  Lentils." 

Value  of  Lentils  as  Food 

Average^chemical  composition  as  pur- 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  mdverti«d  Goocb  —  do  not'sccept  Subtthutct 


554 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


chased  ,(Atwater). 

Car-  Fuel 

bohy-  Value 

Watef  Protein  Fat  drates  Ash  per  lb. 

Beans,  dried  12.6     22.5     1.8     59.6     3.5     1.605 

Lentils,    "      8.4     25.7     1.0    59.2     5.7     1.620 

Lentils,  Egyptian  Style 

(Golden  Rule  Cook  Book) 

Wash  two  cups  of  lentils,  let  soak  several 
hours  or  overnight,  then  drain  and  set 
to  cook  in  boiling  water.  Let  simmer 
imtil  tender  (about  forty  minutes)  then 
drain.  Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  in  a  saucepan  and  add  one  large 
onion,  chopped  fine;  stir  and  cook  over 
a  slow  fire  about  ten  minutes ;  add  the 
lentils,  two  scant  cups  of  boiled  rice  and 
stir  with  a  large  fork  until  very  hot; 
dredge  well  with  salt  and  pepper  before 
serving. 

Lentils,  German  Style 

Soak  as  above,  drain  and  cover  them 
and  one  onion  with  boiling  water,  and 
let  cook  until  tender  but  not  broken. 
Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a 
frying  pan ;  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  and  continue  to  cook  and  stir  imtil 
well-browned;  then  add  two  onions, 
chopped  fine,  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  vinegar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
water  in  which  the  lentils  were  cooked; 
stir  until  boiling;  add  the  drained  lentils 
with  salt  and  pepper  as  needed  and  also 
a  grating  of  nutmeg..  Turn  into  a  double 
boiler  and  let  Cook  over  boiling  water 
fifteen   minutes. 

^  ■  ■ 

Query  2 129.-^* 'Recipe  for  an  easily-made 
Sugar  Cookie." 

Brown  Sugar  Cookies 

H  cups  of  flour  I  }  a  cup  of  butter 


1     teaspoonful  of  soda 

(slightly  rounded) 
1}  a  cup  of  browii  sugar 


i  a  cup  of  hot  water 
li  teaspoonfuls  of  van- 
illa 


Sift  the  sugar  before  measuring,  then 
sift  together  all  the  dry  ingredients. 
Melt  the  butter  in  the  hot  water,  and 
stir  with  the  vanilla  into  the  dry  in- 
gredients; drop  on  well  oiled  tins,  dredge 
with  granulated  sugar;  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 


Cake.   How  may  it  be  cooked  to  insure  a  moist 
cake"? 

Recipe  for  Very  Black  Fruit  Cake 
(C.  F.  L.,  Washington,  D.  C.) 


1  lb.  of  butter 
1  lb.  of  brown  sugar 
1  lb.  of  flour 
12  eggs 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder  (rounding) 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  cinna- 
mon 

1  teaspoonful  of  cloves 


1 2    nutmegs,    grated 

1  cup  of  brandyor 
whiskey 

6  lbs.  of  seeded  raisias 
3  lbs.  of  currants 

2  lbs.  of  citron 

2  lbs.  of  candied  cher- 
ries 
2  lbs.  of  apricots 


2  lbs.  of  pineapple 

Cut  the  citron  in  large  pieces,  use 
cherries  whole,  cut  apricots  and  pine- 
apple. To  make  cake,  put  all  the  fniit 
in  a  large  pan,  then  sift  half  a  pound  of 
flour  on  it,  mixing  well  with  the  hand. 
Mix  together  one  pound  of  butter  and 
one  pound  of  sugar  until  creamy,  then 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Next, 
add  to  half  a  potmd  of  floiu*  the  baking 
powder,  and  add,  alternately,  with, 
beaten  egg-whites  to  the  cake.  Add 
spices  and  brandy,  and  mix  all  with 
the  fruit.  Steam  five  hoxu's  in  a  steamer,, 
then  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  one  hour. 
This  is  only  to  dry  the  cake  a  little. 
Make  in  loaves  to  suit  convenience. 
Tins  with  tube  in  the  centre  are  very 
convenient.  A  tablespoonful  or  more 
of  powdered  charcoal  may  be  added 
with  the  flour  to  make  a  blacker  cake. 


Query  2130. — "Recipe  for  a  very  black  Fruit 


Query  2131. — "Recipes  for  Grapefruit  Cock- 
tail and  Mayonnaise  dressing  made  with  whites 
of  eggs." 

Grapefruit  Cocktail 

Allow  half  a  grapefruit  for  each  ser- 
vice. Cut  the  fruit  in  halves,  then, 
with  a  sharp-pointed  knife,  cut  around 
the  pulp  in  each  section  and  remove  each 
piece  of  pulp,  intact,  to  a  cocktail  glass 
or  a  larger  glass  of  similar  shape;  add 
also  the  juice  to  the  glass.  Serve  plain, 
or  as  the  cocktail  is  sent  to  the  table, 
sprinkle  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered 
sugar  over  the  top.  A  maraschino 
cherry  may  be  added,  either  at  the 
bottom  of  the  glass  or  above  the  grape- 
fruit. A  tablespoonful  of  sherry  or 
maraschino  may  be  added  at  discretion. 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Vanilla  Extracts  and 
The  Pure  Food  Law 

The  Pure  Fooil  law  protects  you  BnliiBt  actual  sduller- 
■tion,  but  it  canDot  prcTcnt  the  nit  of  citracti  mule 


StlokneyftPoor-s 
Eitracta  conform  t 
strict  stnndardg  that 


tiT  Spice.  Tuimehc, 
Soda.  Crrsm  ot  Tartar. 
Potato  Flour,  Sauaaai 
■Dd  Poultry  Seuonint 


STICKNEY  &  POOR  SPICE  CO. 

184  Sute  Si.,  Boston 
THE    NATIONAL       A      M 
MUSTABD  POT        ^    ^ 


JUL 


Bur  •dvcrtiMd  GocxU  —  do  not  accept  (uUtltutc* 


556 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Mayonnaise  with  Egg- Whites 

We  see  no  reason  why  mayonnaise 
dressing  should  be  made  with  whites 
of  eggs.  If  white  mayonnaise  be  desired, 
the  color  can  be  secured  much  better 
by  the  addition  of  whipped  cream. 
Add  the  cream  with  additional  season- 
ing, according  to  quantity  of  cream 
added,  just  before  serving.  From  half 
to  an  equal  bulk  of  cream  may  be  added. 

Query  2132. — "Kindly  give  simple  recipes 
for  cooking  rabbits,  inclndiug  among  them 
"Hasenpfeffer"  Style.  Rabbits  are  reasonable 
in  price  and  as  some  of  my  family  eat  no  red 
meat,  rabbits  make  an  agreeable  change. 

Larded  Rabbit  Baked  with  Milk 

One  rabbit  will  serve  from  four  to 
six  people.  Cut  off  the  head  on  a 
line  with  the  shoulder  bones.  Remove 
the  rib  bones  and  as  many  layers  of 
skin  from  the  outside  as  is  possible. 
Cut  off  the  feet  and  scrape  the  flesh 
from  as  many  tendons  as  are  in  sight, 
discarding  the  tendons.  Wash  in  sev- 
eral waters,  then  wipe  dry.  Lard  the 
whole  upper  surface  with  pork  lardoons 
or,  to  save  time,  spread  over  the  rabbit 
in  the  pan  thin  slices  of  larding  pork. 
Set  into  a  hot  oven,  baste,  at  first, 
with  the  fat  in  the  pan,  then  lower 
the  heat  and  baste  with  hot  milk; 
dredge  with  flour  after  each  basting. 
Let  cook  from  one  hour  to  one  hour 
and  a  half,  or  imtil  tender.  Melt  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  butter;  in  it  cook  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful, 
each,  of  salt  and  paprika,  then  add 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  cold  milk  and  the 
milk  drained  from  the  baking  pan. 
Dispose  the  rabbit  on  a  hot  dish.  Set 
aroimd  it  from  foiu*  to  six  cup-shaped, 
rice  croquettes,  each  holding  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  currant  jelly;  between  the 
croquettes  set  rolls  of  bacon,  fried  in 
deep  fat  or  cooked  in  the  oven.  Rim 
a  wooden  toothpick  through  each  roll, 
to  hold  it  in  shape  while  baking.  Serve 
the  sauce  in  a  bowl. 

Rabbit  a  la  Marengo 


Separate  a  carefully  washed-and-dried 
rabbit  into  eight  pieces,  four  legs  and 
four  body  pieces.  Discard  rib  bones 
and  all  tendons  possible.  Season  the 
pieces  with  pepper  and  salt  and  roll 
in  flour.  Heat  equal  parts  (about 
three  tablespoonfuls,  each),  of  clarified 
butter  and  olive  oil  in  a  fr3ring  pan; 
put  in  the  joint  of  rabbit  and  let  cook, 
turning  when  needed,  to  a  golden  brown. 
Drain  the  fat  from  the  pan,  add  one- 
fourth  a  cup  of  Sauteme  and  let  this 
reduce.  Heat  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
fat  from  the  pan,  stir  in  three  table- 
spoonfuls of  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  one-fourth  of  pepper,  then 
add  three-fourths  a  cup,  each,  of  tomato 
purfe  and  rich  brown  stock,  fllavored 
with  vegetables  and  herbs.  Pour  this 
over  the  rabbit  and  let  simmer  forty- 
five  minutes.  Dispose  a  flat  bed  of 
mashed  potato  on  a  serving  dish;  on 
this  set  the  pieces  of  rabbit;  skun 
all  fat  from  the  sauce  and  strain  it  over 
the  rabbit.  Set  some  crescent-shaped 
croutons  of  bread  around  the  edge. 
Peeled  mushroom  caps,  with  a  bit  of 
butter  in  the  center  of  each,  baked 
ten  minutes,  may  be  set  in  groups  be- 
tween the  croutons. 

Rabbit,  Hasenpfeffer  Style 

Divide  the  forelegs  and  the  lower 
part  of  the  body  into  pieces;  wash  all, 
including  heart,  liver  and  lungs,  thor- 
oughly; have  ready  in  a  saucepan 
fat  from  salt  pork;  in  this  stir  and  cook 
one  or  two  onions,  cut  in  very  thin 
slices;  cook  until  yellowed,  then  add 
two  rounding  tablespoonfuls  of  flour; 
and,  finally,  about  a  quart  of  water 
or  veal  broth,  and  continue  to  stir  until 
boiling;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
small  bit  of  bay  leaf,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  black  pepper,  four  cloves  and  the 
prepared  rabbit;  cover  and  let  simmer 
until  the  rabbit  is  tender.  Add  a 
generous  tablespoonful  of  butter,  half 
a  cup  of  claret  and  two  lumps  of  sugar. 
The  sauce  should  have  a  spicy,  sweet- 
sour  taste,  and  should  not  be  too  thick. 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goodi  —  do  not  accept  subathutc* 


558 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Serve  with  plain  boiled  potatoes.  Dum- 
plings are  sometimes  cooked  in  the 
ragout  five  or  six  minutes  before  serving. 

Dumplings  for  Ragouts 

Chop  exceedingly  fine  half  a  pound 
of  veal  or  beef  steak.  Beat  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream  and  grad- 
ually beat  the  meat  into  the  butter; 
add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  light, 
half  a  cup  of  soft,  sifted  bread  crumbs 
(good  measure,  two  ounces),  a  grating 
of  nutmeg,  half  a  tep^poonful  of  salt 
and,  at  least,  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  dry.  Mix  very  thoroughly  to 
a  soft  batter.  Shape  in  a  tablespoon 
and  let  cook  five  or  six  minutes. 


II 


Query  2133. — "Recipe  for  Flora  Dora  Buns, 
given  some  time  ago  in  this  magazine/ 

Flora  Dora  Buns 

1  cup  ot  scalded  milk 


1  cake  of  compressed 

yeast 
i  a  cup  of  lukewarm 
water 

2  cups  of  flour  (about) 


i  a  cup  of  sliced  citron 
2  egg-yolks 
}  a  cup  of  sugar 
i  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
\  a  cup  of  melted  butter 
Flour  for  dough 
i  a  cup  of  cocoanut 

Mix  the  yeast  with  the  water,  cool 
the  milk,  then  add  the  yeast  and  first 
portion  of  flour;  beat  imtil  smooth, 
cover  and  let  become  light;  add  the 
other  ingredients,  then  knead  imtil 
smooth  and  elastic;  cover  and  set  aside 
until  doubled  in  bulk.  Shape  into  balls 
of  about  two  oimces,  each;  cover  with 
the  mixing  bowl  to  avoid  the  forma- 
tion of  a  crust.  Roll  under  the  hands 
into  oval  shapes.  Set  close  together  in 
a  baking  pan.  When  very  light  and 
puffy  bake  about  twenty-five  minutes. 
Brush  over  with  thin  cornstarch  paste 
and  sprinkle  with  granulated  or  coffee 
**A"  sugar.  Return  to  the  oven  to 
set  the  glaze.    

Query    2134. — "Recipe    for    Chicken    Sand- 
wiches." 

Chicken  Sandwiches 

Chop,  separately,  cooked  chicken  and 
ham  or  tongue.  For  each  three-fourths 
a  cup  of  chicken  take  one-fourth  a  cup 
of  the  other  meat.  For  each  cup  of 
meat  chop,  fine,  one  canned  pimiento, 


rinsed  and  dried  on  a  doth,  or  its  equi- 
valent, in  bulk,  of  olives  stuffed  with 
pimientos ;  mix  with  these  enough  mayon- 
naise dressing  to  make  a  mixture  that 
will  spread  easily.  Cut  the  bread  into 
the  desired  shape,  the  slices  should  be 
about  one-fourth  an  inch  in  thickness; 
do  not  spread  the  mixture  quite  to  the 
edge  of  the  bread. 

Query  2135. — ''Suggestions  for  Teas  and  Card* 
Parties  where  light  refreshments  out*  of  the- 
ordinary  are  desii^. 

I. 
Gnocchi  k  la  Romaine 
(individual  dishes) 
Endive,  orange-and-White  Grape  Salad 
Macaroons  Coffee- 

II. 
Mayonnaise  of  Cream  Cheese  (Neufchate!)  and* 

Pimientos 
Rye  Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

III. 

Mexican  Rabbit  on  Toast 

Olives 

Fruit  Cup 

German  Creaps 

Coffee 

IV. 

Sliced  Brioche  Rolls,  Toasted 

Grapefruit  Marmalade 

Cocoa,  Whipped  Cream 

V. 
Hot  Palmerston  Eclairs 
Lettuce*  Grapefruit,  Orange-and-Cherry  Salad 

Tea 

VI. 
Mayonnaise    of    Chicken,    Artichoke- Bottoms 

Truffles 

Southern  Beaten  Biscuit 

(reheated) 

Coffee 

VII. 

Artichoke  Bottoms,  St.  George  Style 

Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Tea 


REFRIGERATORS-ICE  BOXES 

and  all  places  where  meats  and  foods^ 

are  kept  should  he  regularly  disinfected 

and  purified  hy  using 

Platrs  rblorides. 

Tbe04b}rlessDisiMMf^otant. 

Destroys  germs  and  foul  odors,  does  not 
permeate  the  food. 

Stife,  Effidmnt  and  EeononuoML   Soid  Eomrywher^ 


HENRY   B. 
42  Cliff  Street,  New  York  City,  N.  Y. 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Why  Two  Hods  ? 


have  an  Ash  Hod  with  a  Coal  Hod  beside  it 
(patented).  The  Ash  Hod  is  deep  and  catches 
all  of  the  ashes.  It  is  easy  to  remove  and 
carry  and  doesn't  spill.  Both  hods  free.  The 
old,  clumsy  ash  pan  is  hard  to  remove  and 
strews  ashes  over  floor  and  stairs. 

e  wonderful  "Single 
per"  [patented]  makes  per- 
:ontTol    of  fire  and  oven. 

than  two  dampers.  Have 
«n  it> 

Gas  ovens  if  desired ; 
end  [single]  or  elevated 
[double]. 


Crawford  fiances 
are  Sold  By  Pro» 
iresslve  Dealers 
Hverywhere. 


M^alkcr&PrBtt  Mfg. Co., 
Makers,  Boston 


Buy  advertued  Goods  —  do  not  accept  subatitutea 


Cooking  Rice 


DIRECTIONS  for  cooking  rice 
usually  say  that  the  water 
should  be  boiling,  when  the 
rice  is  added,  and  that  it  should  be 
cooked  fast,  but  that  is  not  the  way 
it  is  done  in  Brazil,  where  the  perfectly 
cooked  rice  is  one  of  the  chief  articles 
of  diet.  The  Brazilian  cook  uses  one 
part  of  rice  to  four  parts  of  cold  water, 
salted.  It  is  brought  to  a  boil  and 
cooked  very  slowly  for  three  hours. 
Every  particle  of  water  is  absorbed, 
the  rice  is  thoroughly  cooked,  and 
each  grain  stands  by  itsdf .  Rice  cooked 
in  this  way  is  very  different  from  the 
mushy  dish  usually  served  in  this 
country.  A  Breless  cooker  is  ideal  for 
cooking  rice,  for  it  simplifies  the  long 
slow  cooking  which  is  needed.  Since 
I  returned  from  Brazil  I  have  been 
interested  to  hear  a  celebrated  specialist 


for  babies  reconunend  this  Birazilian 
method  as  the  ideal  way  to  prepare 
rice  for  babies.  None  of  the  nutriment 
is  wasted,  as  it  is  when  the  water  is 
not  all  absorbed.  The  brown,  un- 
scoured  rice  should  be  used, if  possible, 
and  fortunately  it  is.  getting  more  com- 
mon in  this  country.  e,  s.  e. 

Canned  Chopped  Meat  or  Sausage 

■  Old  Mason  or  other  jars  may  be 
used  for  keeping  sausage  or  other  meat 
potted  in  fat.  When  cooked  in  their 
own  lard,  as  sausage  is,  or  meat  or  fish 
potted  in  melted  butter,  simply  fill  the 
jars,  cover  and  invert  them;  thus  the 
melted  fat  closes  the  old  can  well,  and 
the  contents  will  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

Honey    from    Hymettus 

Every  lover  of  the  Greek  life  of  old 
recalls  the  wonderful  honey  of  Hymet- 
tus. It  has  not  passed  away,  as  has 
that  Greek  life.  The  mountains  of  Hy- 
mettus may  be  seen  from  Athens,  and 
from  them  still  is  brought  that  sweet 
product  of  the  busy  bee.  With  our 
present  out-of-door  life  we  should  get 
back  to  the  simple  sweets,  such  as  honey 
and  dates  for  breakfast,  with  a  wheaten 
'oaf  and  a  beverage,  with  cheese  and 
eggs  as  the  heartiest  dish  permissible. 

Our  so-called  "cmrants"  for  Holidays 
come  from  Corinth  in  Greece,  They 
grow  on  grape  vines,  at  Corinth,  just 
as  they  doubtless  did  in  St.  Paul's 
time.  Only  now  they  have  been  brought 
to  California,  and  the  vines  flourish 
there;  but  "currents"  they  are  still 
called,  —  a  corruption  of  the  name  Cor- 
inth, perhaps. 

J-  D.  C. 


"I  say,  do  you  think  that  Wiggins 
is  a  man  to  be  tnisted?"  "Trusted? 
Yes,  rather.  Why,  I'd  trust  him  with 
my  life."  "Yes;  but  with  anything  of 
value,  I  mean  " 


Buy  advertiaed  goods  —  do  not  accept  lulxtitutea 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Did  you  get  your 

free  copy  of  Mrs.  Rorer's 

new  recipe  booklet? 


MRS.  Sarah  Tyson  Rorer's  new 
book  of  Tabasco  recipes  met 
with  instantaneous  success  on 
its  first  appearance  last  spring,  and 
still  continues  in  great  demand.  If 
you  have  not  already  sent  for  yours 
do  so  now  before  you  forget  it. 

Every  man  or  woman  interested  in 
good  cookery  should  have  one  of  these 
booklets.  It  contains  directions  for 
making  many  unique  and  delectable 
dishes  involving  the  use  of  Mcllhen- 
ny's  Tabasco  Sauce. 

It  is  now  a  well  established  fact 
that  a  pure  liquid  pepper,  such  as 
Mcllhenny's,  is  a  direct  aid  to  diges- 
tion and  does  not  irritate  the  mucous 
lining  of  the  stomach  like  cayenne  or 
black  peppers. 

Get  a  bottle  of  Mcllhenny's  Tabasco 
Sauce  at  your  grocers  and  use  it  in- 
stead of  cayenne  or  black  pepper  for 
all  seasoning  and  you'll  find  a  decided 
improvement  in  the  flavor  of  all  of 
your  cooking.     Try  it  today. 

•  Mcllhenny  Company 

Dept.  H'9  Drexe/  Bui/ding 

Philadelphia,  Pa. 


Buy  advertited  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitues 

551 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Seasonable  Recipes 

(CoDliDncd  from  pige  536) 

centers  with  the  cream  mixture,  letting 
it  show  on  the  open  side.  Set  a  Httle 
bar-de-Iuc  currant  preserve  (or  currant 
jelly  beaten  a  little)  on  the  top  of  each 
cake  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  fine- 
chopped  pistachio  nuts. 

George  Washington  Wafers 

Beat  half  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream; 
gradually  beat  in  one  cup  of  granulated 
sugar,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  half 
a  lemon,  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs 
and  the  white  of  one,  beaten  dry,  and, 
lastly,  flour  to  make  a  dough.  Take  the 
dough  on  the  board  (magic  cover  is 
best),  a  little  at  a  time,  knead  slightly, 
then  roll  into  a  thin  sheet.  Cut  into  any 
shape  desired.  Set  into  baking  pans, 
brush  over  with  beaten  white  of  egg, 
decorate  with  maraschino  cherries,  cut 
in  halves,  with  strips  of  the  outer  rind 
of  candied  citron  for  stems  and  leaves; 
dredge  with  granulated  sugar;  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven. 

Mental  Medicine 

Dr.  Edward  Sanger,  who  has  aban- 
doned his  post  as  assistant  to  a  cel- 
ebrated Chicago  specialist  because  he 
dislikes  the  latter's  methods,  said  in 
New  York: 

"We  should  not  announfce  cures 
unless  they  are  real  cures.  Imagination 
plays  too  great  a  part  in  a  patient's 
feelings.  "Imagination  must  always  be 
reckoned  with  in  medicine  —  sometimes 
as  a  friend,  sometimes  as  a  foe.  I  know 
a  doctor  who  treated  an  old  woman  for 
typhoid,  and  on  each  visit  he  took  her 
temperature  by  holding  a  thermometer 
under  her  tongue.  One  day,  when  she 
had  nearly  recovered,  the  doctor  did 
not  bother  to  take  her  temperature, 
and  he  had  hardly  got  100  yards  from 
the  house,  when  her  son  called  him  back. 

"Mother  is  worse,'  said  the  man. 
'Come  back  at  once.' 

'The  doctor  returned.  On  his  entry 
into  the  sickroom  the  old  woman  looked 


Buy  advcrtbed  Good*  —  do  not  accept  aubstitui 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Bnf  HTcrtiMd  Goods  ~ 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


up  at  him  with  angry  and  reproachful 
eyes. 

"'Doctor,'  she  said:  'why  didn't  you 
give  me  the  jigger  under  me  tongue 
today?  That  always  done  me  more  good 
than  all  the  rest  of  your  trash.' " 

He  Went  To  Walk 

There  is  a  story  of  a  French  dog  whose 
breakfast  was  forgotten,  whereupon  he 
ran  out  into  the  garden,  and,  returaing 
with  a  sprig  in  his  mouth,  deposited 
it  at  his  master's  feet.  It  was  a  sprig  of 
forget-me-not.  The  truth  of  this  storj- 
is  perhaps  open  to  question,  but  a  story 
almost  as  remarkable  comes  fixxa  a 
Florida  correspondent  whose  veradty 
is  undoubted.  Jack  is  a  handsome  New- 
foundland dog.  Every  evening  at  nine 
o'clock  he  is  taken  to  walk  by  his 
master,  who  has  an  orange-wood  stick 
which  he  particularly  likes  and  usually 
carries. 

Every  evening  on  the  stroke  of  nine 
Jack  rushes  to  the  hat-rack  in  the  hall, 
noses  about  among  the  walking-sticks 
and  umbrellas  until  he  finds  the  orange- 
wood  stick,  and  immediately  afterward 
appears  before  his  master  carrying  it  in 
his  teeth.  He  wags  his  tail  and  prances 
delightedly  about,  and  shows  as  plainly 
as  possible  that  he  will  be  a  broken- 
he^^ed  dog  if  hts  friend  and  master 
onnits  the  usual  evening  stroll. 

One  evening  the  family  were  in  the 
sitting-room  with  some  guests.  A 
shower  had  come  up,  and  it  was  raining 
hard  when  the  clock  struck  nine.  The 
strokes  had  hardly  died  away  when  Jack 
danced  gayly  into  the  room  with  the 
orange-wood  stick  in  his  mouth. 

"No,  Jack,"  said  his  master,  "we 
cannot  go  to-night.  It  is  raining  too 
hard.  We  should  get  wet.  Just  listen 
to  it  rain,  Jack." 

With  that  the  host  turned  his  atten- 
tion once  more  to  his  guests,  and  pres- 
ently they  heard  Jack  pulling  over 
the  things  in  the  hat-rack.  They  sup- 
posed he  was  putting  away  the  walking- 
stick,  like  the  clever  dog  that  he  is. 

A  few  moments  later  a  beseeching  Uttle 


Buy  adTcrtiicd  Goods— do  not  accept  aubstitutei 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Add  to  yoiir 
reputation  as 
a  cook — 

Knox  sparkung  Gelatine 

is  granulated,  dissolves  imme- 
diately,  molds  quickly,  makes 
four  (4)  [lints  of  jelly  and  is 
guaranteed.  The  housewife 
^vho  uses 

KHOK 

^  SPARKLING         ^ 

GELATIHE 

soon  gains  an  enviable  lepuU- 
tion  for  her  table.  She  uses  it 
for 

Desserts         Jellies 

Poddinss  Ice  Creams 

SherbeU        Salads 

Mayonnaise  Salad  Dressing 

Candies 

Sarvm  thia  Ntia  Joory  Mfy 
Bolka  <n  midcpe  of  K>o>  SptfkW  Cduw  m  3<  e<« 
.fc<>UiBilkEnDiiiidEemld3aaxof>iillud  iS-Jn 
in  it  K  CIV  fiau  (DdKAcaeil  idiliiic;  dnin.  ■nd  wha 


<■  Mho  icOf.  mdi  en«B  iu>d  •ugu.  or  m  badBl 
sMud.  WheailHndaiKBedfruiUo>DUiiDKrt»adiU' 
TIk  lUi  miT  Ih  lannd  td  luk  diE  tHte. 

Onr  UltubratMl   Book  of  RodpM  FREE 
for  your  grocer's  nime.    PINT  SAMPLE 

CHARLES  B.  KNOX  CO. 

■.H.Y. 


;hup 


K—p*  Aft«r  Opening 


Vine  ripened  tomatoes,  from 
selected  seed,  grown  under 
our  personal  supervision, 
carefully  handled  in  sanitary 
kitchens,  same  day  as  picked; 
cooked  but  lightly  so  that 
the  natural  flavor  is  retained; 
seasoned  delicately  with  pure 
spices;  placed  in  sterilized 
bottles — this  is  Blue  Label 
Ketchup. 

Contaiiu  only  that  insr«ifnn(> 
Racogitixmd  and  EndoT—d 
by  thu  U.  S.  Goo«rnin«n( 
Our  olhcr  products,  Soups,  Jima, 
Jellies,  Prracrves,  Meals,  Canned 
Fruils  and  Vegetables,  you  nill 
lind  eaually  as  pleasing  as  Blue 
Label  Ketchup. 


jBnthenCo. 

It,  N.  T. 


Wt 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  MibMitutn 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


How  to  Save  Money  and  Set 
a  Better  Table  by  Using 


Koralet  Is  rich  in  nntrition—tt  dainty  food 
u  well  as  a  muHle  builder. 

deliclou*  Twietr.  Kparmted  rromTbe  hull«"while°"e 
com  iB  moit  jui<T.    Thii  miU  of  the  fr-  ■-  '■■    ■ 
down  KDd  concentrated  to  make  Korntc 
rood.  coDtaininc  all   ttie  natriment  ( 
tender  com. 
■"Hero  are  no  hnUi  In  Konilel — no  mate. 


Oar fre« recipe  book  tellam 


^  nocen  at  l»c  a  can. 
It  ran  will  aend  n*  the  name 


Ton  afuUalMd  can  br  Parcel 
Foal,  prepaid:  aba  our  Komlet 
Recipe  Booklet  free. 


T 


O   make   the  finest 

mince     pies    use 

Atmore's  Mince  Meat. 

Made  of  the  purest,  freshest 
and  highest-grade  materials; 
in  kitchens  "as  clean  as  wax." 

ATMORE'S 

lailVCE  MEAT 

'isalwaysof  the  aame  high  quality.  Pre- 
■  pared  according  to  our  own  recipe— always 

uniform.  Housewives  have  known  this 
;f3r  the  past  ?1  years. 

No  Benzoate  of  Soda  or  otlwr  artificial 

preservative  is  used  in  Atmora'a  Mine* 

Meat  to  ctH/tr  up  inferior  materials,  for 
'"  Atmor*'*"   b  perfectly  pure,  carefully 

prvpared. 

"AA  Yoar  Croear  for  Atmnrm'a' " 

ATMORE  &  SON 

PHILADELPHIA 


bark  was  heard.    There  in  the  sitting- 
room  door  stood  Jack. 

He  had  an  umbrella  in  his  mouth. 
Every  one  flew  for  the  rubbers,  water 
proof  and  hat  of  the  man  of  the  house, 
and  that  gentleman,  bearing  the  um- 
brella so  persuasively  offered  him,  took 
Jack  out  to  walk  without  further  delay. 
—  Youth's  Companion. 


Caustic  Sacrasm 

If  you  W£int  undistilled  sarcasm,  read 
this  anecdote  related  by  Henry  Miller, 
whose  performance  in  "The  Rainbow" 
is  so  convincingly  strong. 

"We  were  going  along  at  an  awful 
speed,"  he  said.  "I  didn't  see  the  dog, 
but  I  heard  his  'ki-yi,'  so  I  ordered  the 
chauffeur  to  stop.  Going  back,  we 
found  an  irate  lady  standing  over  her 
dead  dog  —  one  of  the  ugliest  dogs  yoa 
ever  saw.  She  met  us  with  a  tirade 
of  remarks,  telling  us  in  no  uncertain 
terms  what  she  thought  of  us  and  auto- 
mobilists  in  general,  finishing  up  by 
calling  us  the  murderers  of  her  d(^. 
It  was  then  that  I  thought  I  would 
pacify  her,  'Madam,'  I  said,  'I  will 
replace  your  dog.'  'Sir,'  she  sa-d,  in 
a  freezing  tone  of  voice,  'you  flatter 
yourself.' "     ^^^____ 

WE  have  two  great  Hebrew  law- 
givers —  Moses  and  Christ 
The  former  justified  vengeance  —  an 
eye  for  an  eye,  a  tooth  for  a  tooth.  The 
latter  said,  "Overcome  evil  with  good." 
We  hold  to  the  latter  doctrine.  Our 
ultimate  goal  in  the  salvation  of  men 
can  never  be  through  force,  violence 
and  vengeance.  Yet  is  not  that  the 
final  result  of  jails,  stripes,  iron  bare, 
and  degradation?  Consistent  with  the 
concession,  therefore  —  and  we  must 
concede  it — that  the  days  of  force  have 
not  passed  and  the  necessity  for  jails 
and  prisons  is  still  very  acute  —  we 
must,  nevertheless,  keep  constantly  in 
mind  that  men  eventually  must  be 
saved  through  love.  It  is  not  incon- 
sistent with  a  faithful  adherence  of 
Christian  ideals. —  Hon.  Ben.  Lindsey. 


Buy  advenited  Gooda  —  do  not  accept  aubatitutea 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


A  Perfect  Knife  for  Grape  Fruit  ™=aSSTange  kn??b"" 

The  bUda  of  this  knife  ia  made  from  the  finest  cntlerjr  atoel,  flnelf  tempered,  curred  j<ut  to  tba 
right  angle  and  gioiind  to  a  very  keen  edge,  will  remove  the  center,  cut  cleanly  and  quickly  atonnd 
the  edge  and  divide  the  fruit  Into  segments  ready  foe  eating. 

Tlic  feature  or  Ibebladi^  is  theroand  end  wbicti  prBTcntocuttini  thronfh  the  outer  ikin.     A  (Tape  tntit  knlla 
b  a  neccMitiraa  crape  rruit  are  srowingu  rapidly  In  popularity  as  a  breaUaat  fruit. 
Far  Salt  bv  all  dnltri.    Piia  SO 
rtfUit  at  prict   a  knift  wtti  bt  u 

THE  EMPIRE  KNIFE  CO.  /.  .*.  .*,  Wiosted,  Conn. 


y  tdvcrtiMd  Goodt — do  not  accept  lubititatet 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Exquisite  Desserts 

and 

Delicious 
Ice    Cream 

Hade  With 

Junket  Tablets 

Your  grocer  or  druggist  sells  them 
or  we  mail  postpaid  ten  tablets  to 
Duke  ten  qttarts  for  10  cents  and 
give  you  the  cbarroing  brochure 
"Junket  Dainties  "  free. 

CHR.    HANSEN'S 
LABORATORY 

Box  2507.  Utde  Palls.  N.  Y. 


Better  bread  and  more  of  it — that 
n  a  good  modem  ideaL 

Fleischmann's  Yeast 


hdps  it  to  come  true.    It 
easy  to  make  good  bread.    Our 
Recipe  Bixik  tells  how. 


The  Fleischmann  Company 

Ml  K«w  T«rk  Cil7 


Women  and  Education 

THE  difference  in  the  education  of 
the  sexes  in  the  human    family 
never  abates  for  a  moment  from   the 
cradle  to  the  grave.    The  tiniest  girl  is 
exhorted  to  behave  in  accord  with  the 
proprieties  that  shut  her  out  from  the 
activities  open  to  her  brother.    All  that 
youth  acquires  before  the  age  of  matur- 
ity becomes  the  inheritance  of  the  race; 
and  thus  the  manacles  which   society 
has  imposed  on  its  women,  as  well  as 
the  progress  it  has  instilled  into  its  sons, 
are  inherited  equally  by  both  men  and 
women.      The    marked    ability    which 
women  are  showing  in  public  work  along 
philanthropic  lines,  in  utilizing  the  power 
of  organization,  proves  nothing   if   not 
that  it  was  a  direct  inheritance  from 
generations  of  men.     The  isolation   in 
which  the  work  of  women  has  always 
been  carried  on  could  develop  no  such 
ability    for    transmission    to    posterity. 
To  what  an  extent  the  progress  of  human 
society  has  been  retarded  by  the  pro- 
longed damming  up  and  diverting  of  the 
powers  of  half  the  race,  it  is,  of  course, 
impossible  to   estimate.     But,  at  least, 
the  lesson  is  plain  for  any  discriminating 
observer  of  social  evolution,  that  most 
of  the  so-called  sex  distinctions  between 
men  and  women  are  merely  the  inevit- 
able consequences  resulting  from  differ- 
ent conditions;  and  just  in  proportion 
as  men  and  women  work  side  by  side 
in  the  battle  of  life,  submitting  to  the 
same  handicaps  and  stimulated  by  equal 
opporttmitiy,    will    the    truth    emerge, 
that  sex  distinctions  have  been  vastly 
overemphasized,  and  that  the  physical 
differentiation  necessary  for  the  propa- 
gation of  the  species  is  strictly  limited 
in  its  field  and  leaves  untouched   the 
larger  area  of  human   qualities,  which 
has  been  developed  in  consequence  of 
man  being  a  social  animal. —  Antut  C. 
Etz. 


The  Quest  of  Humanity 

IT  is  undeniable  that  the  great  quest 
of    humanity    is    happiness.      But 
was  the  world  created  to  be  happy? 


Buy  sdveitiMd  Goods  —  do  not  accept  subititutc* 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


FOR  THE  WOMAN  WHO  WANTS  GOOD  THINOS 

LADD  MIXER 


A  ipccial!)F  made  cleu,  GImi  Urn, 
GOBIuuiiig  Ladd  Bmltr,  home  uu, 
whkJi  ii  removable  for  lua  outiide.     Top 

highly  niekled  mdpoliibrd.   BjriUmeui* 

-^:^'-"v:^!;    thabert  wticloyrt  ni»do.    BewUihil  ud 
^•;:     Mtractin.    We  wrrml  It  mvct  fgg^    By 
-i>SrS^    [»rc<a  port  f<n  $1.60. 


"SATURN" 

CLOTHESUNE  REEL 

A  rouna  Steel  Bill  —  diul 
proof,  nickle  pUted  —  wu- 
ruled40ft.  lin^t«tedto  160 
Ibi.  —  idiei  pieaenl  clolKeipui. 
Uw  oul-dtxH  oi  ia-dooc. 
H.Bgt  knywhere.  Two 
tpreading  tingi.  Poiitrvely  the 
bcft  made  at  toy   price.    By 


Enrr  wdibu  waale  (Ihh.  PImh  wrIU. 

UNITED  ROYALTIES  CORPORATION.  1133  G  Broadway.  New  York. 


St  .00  A  WEEE 


Ipportunity 

lard 

tt  Rotary 


$29.75 

toihrtiilb*, 

$2.00 

DOWN 

$1.00 

A  WEEK 


THIRTY  DAYS  FREE  TRIAL 

Send  two  dollsn  with  refCTeDcei.     Free  Deltvwy-    }l 
after  thirtrdari  trial,  you  do  not  want  a  Siandard  fo 

re torro?"  machine! "choice  or  Duchoea  or  PrinceM  »ii 
■tiiLfht  model*,  at  proportionately  low  prices. 

F.  C.  HENDERSON  CO.,  RXiS^' 
480  WaibiiigbiB  St,    BoitoB,  Husadnuetta 


"Lbi 
Me 

Hoi 


(B^.  U.  8.  I 
FUToriav  »oi  Coloring  for 
Soup,  Gnriai   and  Swieea 

That  ia  the  real  art  anrt  secret  ot  many  a  fan 
famtlr  cook  and  hotel  chef  all  oier  the  world  ot  "  | 
llTers."  Jtut  a  dash  before  (ening  (Ivei  the  cor 
flaTor.  fracrance  and  rolor. 

Write  today  for  a  Pree  Sample  Bottle,  with  Boo 

Kitchen  Bauqnet  la  aold  by  rroccn  CTcrywbere. 

THE  PAUSADE  MFG.  CO. 

383  Ohttm  At«.  W..t  HobolHB,  h 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitute* 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


TW  NaliMd  Tnnof  SchMl  •(  O.  T««t  W...'. 

OriHiM  tamdi^m  oSa*  ■  cnduW  c-^nne  f nm  Jolr  IB 
toAi«iirt«.»l*.roTiiiuJi«i ■- " — ' "™- 


■OBOit,  BIbta  ilmlT  mud  tbc  A»oci»ti™  moremeot    Al- 

t«cti«iiewliaiMin«irtUin»deciieon*enieiici».  rorr»i«. 

■cbolnlca,  etc.,  wldrcai  v 

SECRETAIIAl  DEPABTMENT 

n,1ii,  ■  tm-ttHfl*^  W— 'iCWMhaAi  i  riMm 

M  U>fa<ta.  A*^  M*-  T«k  Or 


Domestic  Science 

Hom«-Studx  Couraea 


For  bomonkken,  teadien 
wBU-paid  pcMittooi. 
"THE  PROFESSION  OF  HOHE-HAKING."  100 
Mfe  hmudbcxik.  PEEK.  BnUeUiM  i  "Fux  Htm 
UMsna,'  10  ccnb.  "Pood  Valuh,"  10  ecoti. 
"  Tax  Uv-to-Datk  Home,"  Ifi  ceota. 

IM.  SCHOOL  OF  WNIE  EGOKMin,  GI3 1.  Itt  SUCWUn 


'    FUBLICATION 


OUGDALE  CO..  225  Dncdda  BnUdlnt.  Wuhlpnaa.   D.  C. 


MAGIC  COVER 


Hacic  Carer  for  Putir  Board  and  Rolllnc  Pin:  chamicaUr 
treated  and  hrilemc:  recommended  br  leadinc  teacberaoc 
cooUac.    Br  mail.  Ooc. 

B.  F.  MACY 

Nn«l|  It  F.  1  MUSI  *  CI.,  tta  ainl  Ukkn  Mm  h  Im  li^al 
410  BoyUlon  Straat. 


How  many  are  truly  happy ?  I've 
studied  people  in  all  classes  and  condi- 
tions, and  everywhere  I  have  found, 
when  you  get  below  the  surface,  that  it 
is  mostly  the  insincere  individual  who 
says,  "I  am  happy."  Nearly  every- 
body wants  something  he  hasn't  got, 
and  as  things  are  constructed,  what  he 
wants  is  money  —  more  money  than 
he  has  in  his  pocket 

But  after  fiU,  money  can  buy  only  a 
few  things.  Why  should  any  one  envy 
the  captains  of  industry?  Their  hves 
are  made  up  of  those  vast,  incessant 
worries  from  which  the  average  indi- 
vidual is  happily  spared?  Worry,  worry, 
that  is  the  evil  of  life. 

What  do  I  consider  the  nearest  a^ 
proximation  to  happiness  of  which  the 
present  nature  is  capable?  Why,  living 
on  a  farm  which  is  one's  own,  far  from 
the  hectic,  artificial  conditions  of  the 
city  —  a  farm  where  one  gets  directly 
from  one's  own  soil  what  one  needs  to 
sustain  life,  with  a  garden  in  front  and 
a  healthy,  normal  family  to  contribute 
those  small  domestic  joys  which  relieve 
a  man  from  business  strain. —  Thomas 
A-  Edison. 

1SEE  the  day  coming  when  Man, 
with  his  infinite  aptitudes  and 
capabilities,  joyously  creating  for  him- 
sei  good  things  out  of  the  infinite 
resources  of  the  universe,  will  hve  in  a 
world  in  which  youthfulness,  wealth, 
abundance,  peace,  progress  and  haopi- 
ness  will  be  supreme. —  Arthur  W.  New- 
cotnb. 


Buy  advcftiMd  Good*  —  do  not  accept  ubititiitM 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


A  New  Cook  Book  by  Mrs.  Hill 

The  American  Cook  Book 

By  MRS.  JANET  McKENZIE  HILL 

Edittr  n*  BmIu  CMUu-ScbMl  MMuiat 


eioth.  91.00  net,  by  mall,  fl.lO 


THIS  book  is  for  evoyday  use.     For  the  most  part  the  recipes  are  simple 
and  concise,  and  just  such  as  will  be  of  assistance  in  preparing  the  reg- 
ular  family  meals,  but  scattered  through  the  book  are  a  few  recipes  for 
choice  dishes  that  will  grace  any  feast     Each  recipe  hu  been  tried  and  tried 
again,  and  is  absolutely  right.     The  directions  are  complete  and  easily  followed. 
Using  this  book  you  are  sure  of  success  every  time. 

Wm  wtB  amtd  tha  Amariean  Cooh  Book,  poalptdd  iipon  rmcmipt  of  $1. 10, 
or  to  any  pmmt  labteribmr  at  a  pramiam  for  —ading  two  {2)  n«W  »ah- 
ueriptiotu  at  $1.00  maeh. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKIN&5CHOOL  MAGAZINE     ::      ::     Boston.  Maaa. 


Bur  rndTertiied  Good*  —  do  not  accept  lubstitutM 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 

Greatest  Subscription  Offer  of  the  Season 

The  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  maguiiieliumade  ipedal  mad  uniMul  amngemenbwA 
tbe  publuken  w^Mnby  we  ue  enabled  to  offer  Am  entire  caoabinstiaa  of  four  qJendid  irapTw^ 

Pictofi.1  Review,  mcnthly.    ((athiooi).   ooe   yeu,   $1.00      f      ALL     ONE 
r^dodem  Pii«Jk         "       (Deedlework).  ••        "  1.00      |     v^TopAn 

Udiei*  World.       "  (hoittehoid),       "     "      i.oo  <    YEARrOR 

And  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE    1.00 
Toul  lubtcnptkn  value  of  thete  four  magaziDei  $4.00 

PICTORIAL  REVIEW  ii 


$2.85 


re  pogB,  prafudjF  illuibal. 


1    pagM     tie    lufllf 

n  hcl  Ihejr  kw)  the 
world  in  the  ibowiai  of  >ewat 
itric*.  h*  Fiction,  it*  ipedd 
featnra    •nd   ki    depulmaiti, 

.noT«.m.a»D.*enBeA»a.  oTESJS^iCrocba  U«. 


idea*  (or  doing  tlun  mile    ' 
LADIES'  WORLD  ■  pic. 

liul  pads  for  womoi  aaj. 

MODERN    PRISOLLA 
Fucy    Woa" 


THE  LADIES'  WORLD 


i>  a  tbgtouahlr  , 

ua.to.iaU  HoiBchold  Mage.  OU  and  Wala  Cfilar  PaiHii^ 

— I. — ...1 l:„.  Sleneiling,  f\roarmfcy.  Le^. 

er   WdS,    BX«,7   .Mi  Ik 


of  evoy  tubjcd 
iDteteil  to  women  and  llic 
Hne.     Ill  houiekold  dtpait.  likc^     Naod>erD 

est*  are  ai  Itood  at  a  coune  tAa  anTwhctc  Dear  ai  bh; 

Domertic  Science.  In  thu'tit.  deajgu  ta  all  KXti  of  F—cj 


•  for  Work  c 


for  nukisg  daiat*  <bca 
nrio.     ai     MODERN 


diildrea  alwayi  pleaie  and  ii 

Ictcit  and  at  the  une  lia  

coorej  •ome  autructiaa  llut  ii  PRISOLLA. 

Th*  Bo€ta 

School  Magaxatm  yoa 
know  aO  abaitt. 

Send  UM  yarn-  order   before  March  31*t,    and  we   will  include,    Mvithoat 
charge  the  Eight  Hardy  Ever-Blooming  Rose  Btuhem  described  below. 

•n  of  all  t^at  G«nitt 

rreloui.    Tne  bodi  in 
beautiful.  Iince,  full  and  Drm  and  elenntly  potnto):  ■' 

il'beiiilifui"of'"ii 


e>  for  open  rtoundcuUure,  bein*  perfectly  bardy.  '°"^  ^  *''"'■  ^'^*'  P"'" 

In.  B.  R.  Cant:— A  beautiful  roH  at  iplendld  haUt  of 


CLIHBEBS 


leti): — Rich  totden- 


roae.    AvkoroiUfrower  and  frei 
large  double  Howerfl. 


__.. ,. _.       „_ it  ia  a  beaulitlll  ■il*t.    Its  color 

Nlel"  MCloM  Is  the  reKinblBiice.      Buda  -^  immenM       ii  moit  pieulnf,  bcluca  pai^deab,  the  ll«bteat  oralltk 

abinv  foUa(«.  Tauaendachon  (Thouaaod  beautie«):-The  moat  turn 

™_M__.__.    n ..    .. ._   ... ..    ,,1  eii^blnc  fine  yet  inlroduced.  blodminc  proTinelr 

mthebccinninirof  June  until  Hie  lait  of  Jnly.  tbt 

IF  YOU  ARE  ALREADY  A  SUBSCRIBER  to  any  one  or  all  of  iheK  maiailnea  four  •uUcrqriion  willbea-     ' 
tended  for  one  year  (lom  the  time  it  ii  now  due  In  expire.     Theie  magaiine*  will  be  lent  all  to  one  adihaa  or  B     I 
leparattt  addreuei  ai  requeitcd.     The  four  magauaa,  each  one  ]rear,  vid  eight  roae  bo^ie*.  all  for  $2.65,  if  four  can 
it  recoTcd  before  March  31tf. 

ADDRESS  ALL  ORDERS  TO 

BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO.,  BOSTON,  MASS.  i 

J 

buy  aiiverliied  Goods—  do  not  accept  ndxtitutef 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


We  have  an 

2lttracttve 

Proposition 

to  make  to  those  who 
will  take  subscriptions  (or 

THE  BOSTON 
eOOKIKG-SeHOOL 

MaaaziNB 

Write  us  for  it  if  you 
wish  to  canvass  your 
town  or  if  you  wish  to 
secure  only  a  few 
names  among  your 
friends  and  acquaint- 
ances. Start  the  work 
at  once  and  you  will  be 
surprised  how  easily 
you  can  earn  ten,  twen- 
ty or  fifty  dollars. 

SUBSCRIPTION  DEPARTMENT 

Boston 

eooklng-Sehool 

Maiazlne  eo. 

BOSTON,   MASSACHUSETTS 


Easier  than  Cooldng.  ' 

Tunuag  ihe  cootenti  o(  ■  ]ell-0  pickaxe  inio  ■  plot  I 
tod  lilliin  it  with  ho*  water  a  the  eu;  way  the  coci  n 
doKtt  whcD  the 


^ELL-Q 


Thoen  do  cooking  about  it,  and,  ot  ci 


■.„,t.l,o 


A  gieat  tuiOj  of  the  moA  ddicioui  and  beautiful  datatt 
(or  dioner  and  the  iiio«  ddighthilly  flavoced  diihei  lor  lunch 
and  ■upper  if  made  of  JeU-O. 

Seven  ftne  pure  fruit  Baron  of  Jell-O :  StiawGen;, 
RaqJwny,  Lemon,  Orange,  CHoiy,  Peach,  Chocolate. 

A  beaoHfol  new  Icclpl  Ink.  wnb  briniantU  nl*rt<  vktarta 
by  Kaae  Cecil  O-NellL  urtkar  awl  MbHlralor  el  TM  Kmpta,- 
wUl  k«  ami  me  !•  aU  wka  mite  and  aik  m  Mr  II. 
m  6BNSSK  raU  FMD  C0„  Leiaji.  H.V..  n*  IrMfcbarf  .Can. 
Tbe  name  Jnu^O  ■■  oo  every  packue  in  bii  red  lettera. 


SRlSi 
FOOD. 

WAS  JESUS  GOD?     . 

Aad  <xl«r  Uoiluiu  Ulcnlun.  FREE  «  •t»l«li«  U 

E.  N.  E. 
No.  6  Kk«<b«y  Sdm.  NEEDHAM,  MASS..  U.  S.  A. 

Every  teacher  should  own 

Vocations  for   Girls 

By  E.  W.  WEAVER 

"In    every  way   the    most    helpful 
handbook  now  at  the  teachei's  com- 
mand." Journal  of  Education. 
Cloth  194  pages  'Price  75c 

THE  A.  S.  BARNES  COMPANY 
381  4th  Atc.,  N.  Y. 


Boir  adTCrtiMd  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutei 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


PREMIUMS 


Exp^ience   has  shown  that  the  most  satisfactory    Tvay  to 

eolarge  the  subscripttoo  list  of  The  Boston  Cookme  School  Magazine  is  through  ia 
present  subscribers,  who,  personally,  can  vouch  for  the  value  of  the  pabUcatiao, 
To  make  it  an  object  for  subscribers  to  secure  new  subscribers,  we  ofifer  the  fal- 
lowing premiums: 

COIVDinONS  t      Premloou  ar«  not  eiTen  with  ■  snbacription  or  /vr  «  reoewal,  but  only  ts 
prmatil  ■nbtcrib«n,  for  ■ectuiiig  uid  ■ending  to  ui  nrat  yt*rly  subacid 


liona  «t  ll-OO  each.     The  nombsr  of  new  aubscrlpliona  required  to  aecure  each  premium,  ia  deailr 
•tated  Mow  iha  dMCriptlon  of  the  premium, 

Tranaportadon  i«  or  ia  not  paid  aa  atated. 

Oar  PrsaisH  ua  auadard  gosda,  JBit  nsh  u  ar*  uld  at  Ik*  hattar  atarai.  ara  waU  wank  tlia  prlsa.  la 

hava  diTaa  aalTarHl  aatUlaatlaB. 

SOMETHING  NEW 

At  erety  aodal  ftmctioo  boe  in  tbo  eut  tinr 
cakea  ate  aerred,  baked  tn  Una  like  tboee  abowa 
tn  tike  tllnstnUoo.  These  tin*  mre  hupoitbd; 
beantlflilljr  made  from  Teiy  beaTr  tin,  «ad  aie 
firat-claM,  A-No.  1  la  Ctct^  reapect. 

Here  la  one  Oood  Recipe  to  Try. 
POUND  CAKE  POR  LITTLE  XINS. 
/  cup  flonr 


ji  cup  iiwar 
»ea»yolt8 
Ji  tableapoonfiil  brandy 


■  teaipoouful  bekjat 
powder  (lewel) 
T(  teiupoonnil  mace 
leggwbitea 


Put  allttle  of  the  mixture  in  the  center  of  eadi 
tin)  the  heat  of  the  oven  will  cause  it  to  nm  and 
fill  the  ting.  The  recipe  makea  about  aixtj  little 
cakea.  Spread  confectioDer's  Icing  on  the  top 
or  leare  pFaln. 
One  of  tibeae  Una,  baUnir  1 9  tittle  cakes  (atate  whldi  design  jon  wUi) ,  acnt,  poatpaid,  for  tn 
(2)Dewaubaciiptlona.     (Piice5l.29.) 


A  SET  OF  THREE   (3)  STEEL  DRAWN  MOULDS 

For  Jellies.  PuddlDgs,  Custards, 
etc.*  etc. 

Are  80  shaped  that  the  coDteoti  readily  comes 

out  in  perfect  condition. 
These  moulds  ordinarily  sell  for  S5c.  pint  aixe, 
40c.  pint  and  a  half,  and  60c.  for  quart  siae. 
We  hare  combined  the  three  sises  iota  a  set,  and 
will  send  a  set  (uther  oval  or  round  but  not 
assorted  shapes),  prepaid,  as  premium  for  one 
(I)  new  subscription.    Cash  price  S6*l.  preptud. 


THE  BOSTON    COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE,  BOSTON,   MASS. 

Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  aubatitutea 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


PREMIUMS 


ALUMINUM  OMLET  PAN 

Tbo  omlet  is  fint  cooked  in  one  ride  of 
the  pan,  the  two  parts  of  the  pan  dosed 
togettier,  the  pan  turned  orer,  and  the 
omlet,  then,  cooked  on  the  other  aide,  in 
the  second  tiait  of  the  pan.  A  very  hand^ 
device  for  omiets. 


SCALLOPED  DECORATING  KNIVES 

Genuine,  FreDch,  Imported,   Sabatler,  Tnimpet  Brand.     For  cutUogr 
fluted  potatoes,  vegettUiles,  etc.,  etc. 
Sent  prepaid  for  one  (1)  new  tttb»criptlop.     Cih  price.  60  cla.  prepaid. 


THREE   PINT 
MELON  MOULD 

For  ice   cream,    bombea,    brown    bread, 
■teamed  puddings,  etc.,  etc. 
Sfst  prepaid  for  one  (I)  new  nibacriptloD. 
~ .  price,  70  cents,  prepaid. 


Caihprii 


KETTLE  SPOON   HOLDERS 

Tki*  little  article  hooki  orer  the  edge  of  way  kettle  and  famlahea  a 
reating  place  for  the  Btirring  ipoon.  Verj  useful  when  preaerring  or  mak- 
ing mince  meat,  etc.  Only  a  few  on  band.  As  long  as  they  last,  aent  pre- 
paid for  10  els-  each. 

ORIGINAL  MEASURING  SPOONS 

Three  spoons  riveted  blether,  and  swinging  on  the  riret.     Tea  sponn, 
half  tea  spoon  and  quarter  tea  spoon,  accurate  and  very  convenient. 
Sent  postpaid  for  lO  eta.  a  set. 


SELF-PULUNG 
CORK  SCREW 

TwintlDg  the  Cork  Screw 

pulls  the  cork. 

Sent  prepaid  for  one  (!) 
new  subscrlpUoQ.  Cash 
price,  40  cents,  prepaid. 


PRINCESS   PATTY  TINS 

-ro«- 
Brownles  or  Other  Small  Cakes 


A  SET   OF   24  TINS 


M  cup  of  Butter 
^  cup  of  Sugar 

yi  cup  of  Molasees(dark) 

Mix  in  the  uiual  n 


BrowDies 

I    1  Eftg,  well  iieaten 
1  cup  of  Flour 


t  withoub  separaUng 


THE    BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE.   BOSTON.    MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


lEMINGTON-URQUHART   PRESS 
23t  CONGRESS  ST..  BOSTON 


Guard Aaainstlmitations  I 

I  I  njB  /TO'niiiTiA  I 


Teco  MiDs  Battermilk  Proihcts 


HADE  WITH 


MALTED  BUTTERMILK 


Buckwheat  aid  Griddle  Cakes 

PhfriclaiUBiH]  food  eipertiiciT  rencallr  aren 
BdToCBtiaitheuioofBlITrERHILK  in  tbe  dailr  diet. 

Eacb  Fackacc  ot  Tuco  GrUdle  C>ka  mnd  Buck- 
wheat Miitara  containa  In  dried  fotm  alibsnlquu)- 
tilT  Of  MALTED  BUTTERMILK. 

To  make  Buckwheat  Cakea  or  Oriddle  Cakes,  )nt 
add  water  to  the  coatants  of  the  packace.  and  bake. 

USE  HO  MILK.       

FOI  SAU  BT  OtOCEH  CTJUEALLT 

JktSkiJtVtCampMMi.  Caitknd,  N.  T..lliMfiil^»i 

St^  Pnlalftr  BMkltl 

SAWYER    CRYSTAL    BLUE    COMPANY 

New  Eaclaad  Aa>iit> 
8S  Broad  Strael,  Boaton,  Maaa, 


vo!^e 


VQ9E  A  SOP'S  nANO  CO..  les  B 


REDUCING  TIME  SPENT  IN  THE  KITCHEN 


nt     run.     K.A 


I  »r  Cmm  tl  W*M  Ct. 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


A  good  cook  book  is 

like  a  gold  mine — the  more  you 
dig  into  it,  the  richer  you  become 


To  know  how  to  market  successfully  and  economically ;  how  to 
prepare  and*  cook  all  manner  of  foods  ;  to  have  at  command  hundreds 
of  receipts  for  making  the  choicest  things  in  cookery ;  how  to  give 
variety  to  daily  menu ;  how  to  brush  away  many  of  the  daily  cares  that 
afflict  the  housewife — these  are  some  of  the  riches  contained  in 

Mrs.  Rorer's  New  Cook  Book 

It  is  a  great  book  of  over  700  pages  of  practical  goodness ;  128 
beautiful  illustrations  and  1500  recipes  of  the  most  delightful  and  helpful 
character.  Every  phase  of  cookery  is  covered  from  soup  to  dessert. 
You  will  find  clever  ways  for  doing  ordinary  things,  and  an  abundance 
of  new  ideas  and  neiv  recipes. 

Bound  in  wathable  oloth,  $2.00 1  by  mail,  $2.20 

Vegetable  Cookery  and  Meat  Substitutes 

A  most  wonderful  book  by  Mrs.  Rorer.  The  knowledge  in  this  book 
will  enable  you  to  snap  your  fingers  at  high  prices.  Mrs.  Rorer  shows  how 
to  select,  prepare,  cook  and  serve  delightfully  all  kinds  of  vegetables,  and  how 
to  prepare  delicious  dishes  to  use  in  place  of  meat. 

Bound  in  oloth,  $1.50 1  by  mail,  $1.65 

Mrso  Rorer's  Philadelphia  Cook  Book 

The  epitome  of  all  that's  good  in  cooking.  Nearly  700  pages  of  choice 
recipes.  It  is  for  the  beginner  as  well  as  the  experienced  cook.  Each  can 
use  and  enjoy  it.     Everything  is  cooked  sure,- and  bound  to  come  out  right. 

Bound  in  washable  oloth,  $1.00  t  hj  mail,  $1.15 

Mrs.  Rorer's  Ice  Creams,  Ices  and  Puddings 

Philadelphia  Ice  Creams  are  noted  for  their  wonderful  quality,  smooth- 
ness and  richness.  Here  they  are  together  with  Neapolitan  Ice  Creams, 
Water  Ices,  Frozen  Puddings,  and  Fruits,  Sherberts,  Sorbets,  Sauces,  Re- 
freshments for  Social  Affairs  and  Church  Suppers. 

Cloth,  75  cents  t  by  mail,  80  cents 

Can  be  had  of  all  bookstores)  or  department  stores,  or  of 

ARNOLD  &  COMPANY,  420  Sansom  St..  Philadelphia 


Do/i'f  ,i!iii'ss—i!o  hy  Mrs.  Rorer 


Buy  advertised  Goods  -^  do  not  accept  substitutes 

577 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING. 


SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Vol.  XVIII 


MARCH,  1914 


No.  8 


CONTENTS  FOR  MARCH 


LITTLE  DINNERS  FOR  MARCH       

WOMEN  OF  THE  PUSHCART  MARKETS     (Illustrated) 
Jeanette  Young  Norton 

SERVICE Arthur  W.  Peach 

TWO  CITY  GIRLS  PIONEERING  IN  ARIZONA 

Julia  Davis  Chandler 

THE  LADY  OF  THE  ANGEL  CAKE 

Frances  Campbell  Sparhawk 

THE  SWEETNESS  OF  THE  HOUR 

Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson 

THE  BURNED  FLORENTINE  MERINGUE       Ladd  Plumley 

HE  CARETH 

MEETING  THE  PROBLEM  OF  LIVING     .     Eva  J.  De  Marsh 

MARCH Helen  Coale  Crew 

EDITORIALS 

SEASONABLE   RECIPES  (Illustrated  with  half-tone  engravings 
of  prepared  dishes) Janet  M.  Hill 

MENUS  FOR  WEEK  IN  MARCH   .... 

MENUS  FOR  LENTEN  LUNCHEONS 

AND  DINNERS 

OUR  DAILY  BREAD,  OR  PREPARATION 

IN  DETAIL  OF  THE  MEALS  OF  ONE  DAY 

A  VILLANELLE  OF  LEFT-OVERS    Corinne  RockweU  Swain 

REDUCING  TIME  SPENT  IN  THE  KITCHEN 

Jessamine  Chapman  Williams 

HOME  IDEAS  AND    ECONOMIES— The  Garden  in  March— 
The  Maid's  Day  Out — Japanese  Runners,  Tarragon,  etc.,  etc. 

WISDOM  IN  A  GARDEN Aldis  Dunbar 

QUERIES  AND  ANSWERS 

NEW  BOOKS 

MISCELLANEOUS 


»> 


ft 


•  » 


»» 


9t 


»t 


)» 


99 


ft 


PAGE 

585 

587 
590 

591  - 

596 

600 
602 

604 
605 
606 
606 

609 
617 

618 

619 
621 

622 

625 
629 
630 
638 
642 


91.00  A  YEAR 


lOc  A  COPY 


Published  Ten  Times  a  Year 

Four  Years*   Subscription,  $3.00 

Eatarcd  at  Boston  poat-offlce  as  sacood-claaa  mattar.    Copyright,  1914.  by 

THE     BOSTON     COOKING      SCHOOL     MAGAZINE     COMPANY 
372  BOYLSTON    STREET  BOSTON,  MASSACHUSETTS 


Please  Renew  on  Receipt  of  the  Colored  Blank  Enclosed  for  that  Purpose 

57» 


AD  VERTIEEMENTS 


There  is  satisfaction  in  cooking  when  you  use 

Cottolene 


It  removes  dozens  of  worries  from 
of  the  cook.  This  is  the  way  an 
cook  prepares — 


the  mind 
excellent 


-CODFISH  BAIXS- 


Take  «  pint  bowl  of  codfiah  pickod  veiy  fine,  two  jdot 
bowls  of  taw  peeled  potatoes,  sliced  thickly,  and  boU  in 
cold  water  nntU  the  potatoes  aie  thoroughly  done. 
Drain  o9  the  water,  mash,  add  hotter  the  aiie  of  ait  egg, 
one  well-beaten  egg  and  three  tablespoonfnli  of  mUk. 
Flour  the  bands  and  make  Into  balls.  Pat  two  ooncea 
of  Cottolene  Into  a  frying  pan,  and  whan  hot,  fry  the 
balls  to  a  nice  brown.  Or  the  codfish  balls  may  be 
fried  In  bat  Cottolene  after  the  manner  of  fritters. 


Any  practical  housewife  will  at  once  ap- 
preciate the  wholesomeness  and  economy 
of  this  pure  cooking  fet 

Remember  always  to  use  one-third  less 
Cottolene  than  you  would  of  butter 
(w  lard 

Order  Cottolene  today  from  your 
grocer.  Also  send  to  us  for  our 
FREE  Cook  Book,  HOME  HELPS 
written  by  Mrs.  Helen  Armstrong 
Mrs.  Lincoln  and  other  cooking  au 
thorities. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


We  have  an 

Attractive 

Proposition 

to  make  to  those  who 
will  take  subscriptions  (or 

THB  BOSTON 

eOOKING 'SCHOOL 

MAGAZilVB 

Write  us  for  it  if  you 
wish  to  canvass  your 
town  or  if  you  wish  to 
secure  only  a  few 
names  among  your 
friends  and  acquaint-- 
ances.  Start  the  work 
at  once  and  you  will  be 
surprised  how  easily 
you  can  earn  ten,  twen- 
ty or  fifty  dollars. 

Address 
SUBSCRIPTION  DEPARTMENT 

Boston 

GookitijS  'School 

Magazine  Go. 

BOSTON.    MASSACHUSETTS 


INDEX  FOR  MARCH 


Editorials  for  March 

HeCaieth 

Home  Ideas  and  Economies 

March 

Meeting  the  Problem  of  Living 


606 
604 
625 
606 
605 


Menus 585,  617.618 

Our  Daily  Bread 619 

Reducing  Time  Spent  in  the  Kitchen.      .  622 

Service 590 

The  Burned  Meringue 602 

The  Lady  of  the  Angel  Cake  ....  596 

The  Sweetness  of  the  Hour      ....  600 

Two  City  Girls  Pioneering  in  Arizona      .  591 

Women  of  the  Pushcart  Market  597 

SBASr>NABLE   RECIPES 

Cake,  Apple  Sauce 613 

Chops.   Broiled  Lamb  with  Chestnut 

Croquettes,  111 610 

Consomm6,  Vegetable  a  la  Royal  609 

Custard  Caramel,  111 616 

Custard,  Royal 609 

Fillets,  Chicken  with  Ham  and  Mush- 
rooms, 111 611 

Marguerites,  Pecan-nut,  111.      ...  616 

Patties,  Potato  with  Peas,  111.   ...  612 

Parsnips.  Fried  in  Batter  614 

Pastry,  Cream 615 

Pears.  Cardinal 614 

Pie,  Peach 616 

Pie,  Prune.  Ill 615 

Potatoes.  OakhtU 612 

Potatoes.  Baked,  Yellowstone  Style  612 

Salad,  Apple,  Date  and  Celery  ...  614 

Smelts,  Italian  Style 610 

Spinach,  Italian  Style,  111 612 

Soup,  Cream  of  Spinach       ....  610 

Tarts,  Baked  Apple.  Ill 613 

Tarts,  Peach,  111 615 

Queries  and  Answbis: 

Barsh  k  la  Polonaise 630 

Bread,  Boston  Brown 634 

Broth,  Beetroot  (Fillipini)    /    .      .      .  630 

Cake,  Whipped  Cream 636 

Caramels,  Choice 632 

Doughnuts,  Molasses 634 

Fillets  of  Soles,  Veronique    ....  630 

Grapefruit,  Serving  of 632 

Macaroni.  Milaniise 634 

Menus  for  College  Boys 631 

Milk,  Whipping  Condensed  634 

Pies.  Points  of  Judging  .     .      .  631 

Salt  in  Boiling  Vegetables    ....  636 

Squash  en  Casserole 634 

Sugar,  Adulteration  of  Brown         .     .  636 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

580 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


An  Entirely  New  Cook  Book  by  Miss  Farmer 

A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 

Author  of  "The  Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book,"  Etc. 

H^itA  Eight  (UUrtd  PUutt  and  m^rt  than   Two  Hundred  ILuuratiomt  h  Half-Tom 

Cloth,  $1.60,  net.       By  mail,  $1.75 

Since  its  original  publication,  Miss  Farmer's  ''Boston  Cooking 
School  Cook  Book"  has,  in  new  editions,  incorporated  large  addi- 
tions, but  the  wealth  of  new  material — the  result  of  experiments 
in  the  author's  class  rooms  and  embodied  in  recipes  which  have 
been  thoroughly  tested — has  grown  to  such  an  extent  that  it  has 
become  necessary  to  incorporate  it  in  a  separate  volume  which 
forms  an  almost  indispensable  companion  to  the  author's  invalu- 
able ''Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book." 

The  "  New  Book  of  Cookery"  contains  more  than  eight  hun- 
dred recipes  upon  all  branches,  including  many  new  and  import- 
ant dishes  not  to  be  found  in  any  other  worK.  It  is  profusely 
illustrated. 

LITTLE,  BROWN  &  CO.,  Publishers    -    BOSTON 


Summer  School  of  Cookery 

WITH  VACATION  OUTING 
AT  SOUTH  CHATHAM,-  N.  H. 


T 


HE  Eleventk  Season  of  Mrs.  Janet  M.  HilFs  Sckool  of  Cookery 
'Will  open  at  ker  summer  kome,  "Xopo  Pino,  Soutk  Ckatham^ 
Wcdnesclay,  July  8tk. 

Tke  Course  for  1914  -will  ke  enlarged  and  improved.  Tke  Sckool 
is  for  tkose  wko  arc  interested  in  Cookery  for  tke  Home,  tke  SckooL 
Tea-Rooms,  Restaurants,  and  Institutions  wkere  catering  is  done. 

Practical  Cooking-  is  taugkt  tkrpugk  tke  preparation  and  serving  or 
food  for  daily  meals  and  special  occasions.  Opportunity  is  offered, 
also,  for  tkose  ivko  wisk  to  specialize  in  any  particular  line  of  Cook- 
ing.     Personal  attention  is  given  to  eack  pupil. 

IMountains,  ponds,  krooks  and  primitive  forests  are  incentives  to 
out-door  life  a  part  of  eack  day. 


For  circular  of  terms  and  other  information,  apply  in  person  or  by  letter  to 

372  BOYLSTON  STKEET 
BOSTON.  MASS. 


The  Boston  Cooldng-School  Magazine  Co. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

581 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Books  on  Household  Economics 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  presents  the  following  as  a  list  of  repre- 
sentative works  on  household  economics.    Any  of  the  books  will  be  sent  postpaid  upon 
receipt  of  price. 
With  an  order  amounting  to  $5  or  more  we   include   a  year's  subscription   to   THE 
BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  (price  $1). 

Special  rates  made  to  schools,  clubs  and  persons  wishing  a  number  of  books.  Write  for 
quotation  on  the  list  of  books  you  wish.  We  cairy  a  very  large  stock  of  these  books.  One  order 
to  us  saves  effort  and  express  charges. 


A-B-Z  of  Our  Own  Nutrition.  Horace 

Fletcher 

American  Cook  Book.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Hill 
American  Salad  Book.  M.  DeLoup... 
Around  the  World  Cook  Book.  Barroll 
Art  of  Entertaining.  Madame  Mesri 
Art    of '  Home    Candy-Making    (with 

thermometer,  dipping  wire,  etc.) 

Art  of  Right  Living.     Richards 

Baby,  The.    A  book  for  mothers  and 

nurses.   D.  R.  Brown,  M.  D 

Bacteria,    Yeasts    and    Molds    in    the 

Home.    H.  W.  Conn    

Blue  Grass  Cook  Book.  Minnie  C.  Fox 
Book  o'  Entrees.  Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill 
Book  of  Good  Maimers.  Kingsland . . . 
Boston  Cook  Book.  Mary  J.  Lincoln 
Boston   Cooking   School   Cook   Book. 

Fannie  M.  Farmer   

Boston    School    Kitchen    Text    Book. 

Mary  J.  Lincoln  

Bread  and  Bread-making.  Mrs.  Rorer 
Bright  Ideas  for  Entertaining.  Linscott 
Brussels  Charts  (Two.)    Showing  cuts 

of  Beef,  Lrmb  and  Veal  

Cakes,  Icings  and  Fillings.  Mrs.  Rorer 
Cakes,  Cake  Decorations  and  Desserts. 

King    

Candy  Making  Revolutionized.     Mary 

Elizabeth  Hall  

Canning  and  Preserving.  Mrs.  Rorer 
Care  and  Feeding  of  Children.     L.  £. 

Care  of  a  Child  in  Health.    N.  Oppen- 

heim    

Care  of  a  House.    T.  M.  Clark 

Carving  and  Serving.  Mary  J.  Lincoln 
Century  Cook  Book.  Mary  Roland.. 
Chemistry  in  Daily  Life.  Lessar-Cohn 
Chemistry    of    Cookery.    W.    Mattieu 

Williams    

Chemistry   of   Cooking   and   Cleaning 

Richards  and  Elliott  

Chemistry    of    Food    and    Nutrition. 

Sherman    

Clean  Milk.    S.  D.  Belcher 

Cleaning  and  Renovating.  E.  G.  Osman 
Color,    Harmony    and    Contrast.     Jas. 

Wood   

Complete     Home,     The.      Clara     E. 

Laughlin    

Cook  Book  for  Nurses.  Sarah  C.  Hill 
Cooking  for  Two.  Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill 
Cost  of  Cleanness.     Richards   


1.00 
1.10 
l.UO 
1.50 
1.00 

3.00 
.50 

1.00 

1.00 
2.00 
1.50 
1.50 
2.00 

2.00 

1.00 
.50 
.50 

2.00 
.50 

1.00 

.75 
.75 

.75 

1.25 
1.50 
.60 
2.00 
1.75 

L50 

1.00 

1.50 

1.00 

.75 

4.20 

1.25 

.75 

1.50 

1.00 


Cost  of  Food.    Richards 1.00 

Cost  of  Living.    Richards 1.00 

Cost  of  Shelter.    Richards 1.00 

Dainties.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 

Desserts— One  Hundred  Recipes.     By 

Filippini     30 

Dietetic  Value  of  Bread.    John  Good- 
fellow 1.50 

Dictionary  of  Cookery.    Cassell 2.50 

Domestic      Science      in      Elementary 

Schools.     Wilson   LOO 

Domestic  Service.    Lucy  M.  Salmon..  2.00 

Dust  and  Its  Dangers.    Pruden 75 

Economics  of  Mooem  Cookery.  M.  M. 

Mallock   1.00 

Elements  of  the  Theory  and  Practice 

of  Cookery.    Williams  and  Fisher...   I.OO 
Equipment    for    Teaching    Domestic 

Science.     Kinne   80 

Etiquette     of      New      York     Today. 

Learned    1.35 

Etiquette  of  Today.    Ordway 50 

European  and  American  Cuisine.    Mrs. 

Lemcke    2.00 

Euthenics.     Richards   I.OO 

Every  Day  Menu  Book.    Mrs.  Rorer..  1.50 
Expert  Waitress.    A.  F.  Springsteed . .  1.00 

Family  Food.  O'Donnell 1.00 

First  Lessons  in  Food  and  Diet JO 

Fish — One  Hundred  Recipes  for  Cook- 
ing Fish.    Filippini .J5 

First  Principles  of  Nursing.    Anne  R. 

Manning    1.00 

Food  and  Cookery  for  the   Sick  and 

Convalescent.  Fannie  M.  Farmer....    1.60 
Food  and  Dietaries.     R.    W.    Burnett 

M.  D 1.50 

Food      and      Feeding.        Sir      Henry 

Thompson     1.35 

Food  &  Flavor.     Finck 2.00 

Food  and  Its  Function.    James  Knig^ht  1.00 
Food  and  the  Principles  of  Dietetics. 

Hutchinson     3.00 

Food  for  the  Invalid  and  the  Convales- 
cent    Gibbs   75 

Food  in  Health  and    Disease.     I.    B. 

Yeo,  M.  D 2-50 

Food   Materials  and  Their  Adultera- 
tions.    Richards    1.00 

Food  Products  of  the  World.    Mary  E. 

Green 1^0 

Franco-American  Cookery  Book.     Dd- 
liee 3.50 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

582 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


French  Household  Cookins.  Keyser..  .60 
Fuels  of  the  Household.  Marian  White  .75 
Golden  Rule  Cook  Book  (600  Recipes 

for  Meatless  Dishes).    Sharpe 2.00 

Guide  to  Modem  Cookery.  M.  Escoffier  4.00 
Handbook  of  Home  Economics.  Flagg  .75 
Handbook    of    Hospitality    for    Town 

and  Country.     Florence  H.  Hall....  1.50 
Handbook  of  Invalid  Cooking.     Mary 

A.  Boland  2.00 

Handbook  on  Sanitation.    G.  M.  Price, 

M.  D 1.50 

Healthful   Farm   House,   The.    Helen 

Dodd    60 

Home  Candy  Making.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Home  Economics.    Maria  Parloa 1.50 

Home  Economics  Movement 75 

Home  Nursing.     Harrison   1.00 

Home  Problems  from  a  New  Standpoint  1.00 
Home  Science  Cook  Book.    Anna  Bar- 
rows and  Mary  J.  Lincoln 1.00 

Homes  and  Their  Decoration.    French  3.00 

Hot  Weather  Dishes.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

House  Sanitation.    Talbot 80 

Household  Bacteriology.  Buchanan..  2.25 
Household  Economics.  Helen  Campbell  1.50 
Household  Science.  Junita  L.  Shepperd  1.75 

Household  Textiles.     Gibbs 1.25 

How  To  Cook  Fish.    Olive  Green....  1.00 
How  To  Cook  for  the  Sick  and  Con- 
valescent.   H.  V.  Sachse  1.00 

How  To  Feed    Children.     Louise    E. 

Hogan    1.00 

How  to  Use  a  Chafing  Dish.  Mrs.  Rorer    .50 

Human  Foods.    Snyder 1.25 

Ice  Cream,  Water  Ices,  etc.    Rorer  ...    .75 

Institution  Recipes.    Smedley 125 

International  Cook  Book.    Filippini...  1.00 

Kitchen  Companion.    Parloa 2.50 

Laundry  Manual.   Balderstbn  and  Lim- 
erick     50 

Laundry  Work.     Juanita  L.  Shepperd    .60 
Lessons  in  Cooking  Through  Prepara- 
tion of  Meals  '2.00 

Lessons  in  Elementary  Cooking.   Mary 

C.    Jones   1.08 

Like  Mother  Used  to  Make.  Herrick.  1.25 
Louis'     Salad     and     Chafing     Dishes. 

Muckensturm     50 

Luncheons.     Mary  Roland  1.40 

Made-over  Dishes.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Many  Ways  for  Cooking  Eggs.     Mrs. 

Rorer    50 

Menu   Book  and   Register  of  Dishes. 

Senn    2.50 

Mothers',  The,  Guide.     Coolidge 50 

My  Best  250  Recipes.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 

New  Book  of  Cookery,  A.  Fannie  M. 

Farmer 1.60 

New  Hostess  of  Today.    Larned 1.50 

New  Salads.     Mrs.  Rorer 75 

Nursing,  Its  Principles  and    Practice. 

Isabel  H.  Robb 2.00 

Nutrition  of  Man.    Chittenden  3.00 


Old  Time  Recipes  for    Home    Made 

Wines,    Helen  S.  Wright 1.50 

One  Woman's  Work  for  Farm  Women    .50 

Paper  Bag  Cookenr.    Soyer 60 

Pleasures  of  the  Table.    Elwanger....  2.50 
Practical  Cooking  and  Dinner  Giving. 

Mrs.  Mary  F.  Henderson X,SO 

Practical  Cooking  and  Serving.     Mrs. 

Janet  M.  Hill 1.50 

Practical  Dietetics.    Gilman  Thompson  5.00 
Practical    Points    in  *Nursing.     Emily 

A.  M.  Stoney  1.75 

Practical  Sewing  &  Dressmaking.    Al- 

lington    1.50 

Principles  of  Home  Decoration.    Can- 
dace  Wheeler    1.80 

Principles  of  Human  Nutrition.  Jordan  1.75 
Proper  Feeding  of  the  Family.    Gibbs    .25 

guick  Soups.    Mrs.  Rorer 25 
ecipes  and  Menus  for  Fifty.    Frances 

Lowe  Smith   1.50 

Register  of  Foods 1.00 

Rorer's  (Mrs.)  New  Cook  Book 2.00 

Salads  and  Sauces.    Murray 50 

Salads,  Sandwiches,  and  Cfhafing  Dish 

Damties.    Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill 1.50 

Sanitation  in  Daily  Life.    Richards 60 

Sewing  Course  for  Schools.    Wool  man  1.50 
Story  of  Germ  Life.    H.  W.  Conn. .'. . .     .35 

Soyer's  Standard  Cookery  1.50 

Sunday  Night  Suppers.    Christine  Ter- 

hune  Herrick  1.00 

The  Story  of  Textiles 3.00 

The  Up-to-Date  Waitress.    Mrs.  Janet. 

M.   Hill    1.50 

The  Woman  Who  Spends.    Bertha  J. 

Richardson   1.00 

Till  the  Doctor  Comes,  and  How  To 

Help  Him  1.00 

Vegetable  Cookery  and  Meat    Substi- 
tutes.   Mrs.  Rorer 1.50 

Vegetarian  Cookery.    A.  G.  Payne 50 

With  a  Saucepan  Over  the  Sea.    Ade- 
laide Keen    1.50 

Women    and     Economics.      Charlotte 

Perkins  Stetson    1.50 

Woman's  Share  in   Primitive    Culture. 

Otis  J.  Mason  1.75 

World's  Commercial  Products,  The.  . .  3.60 

Library  of  Home  Economics: 


Th«  BtoM 

HooMhtU  Badtrfolof  T 
BontdioM  HyflMt 
Chcfflitlry  of  li«  HratehtM 
PrlsdplM  tl  CMktry 
f—i  aai  Dltlelkt 


HoatdMli  NuiagHMBl 
P«mmI  Brficot 
Bmm  Cart  mIIm  Sick 
TexlilMaiiia«thlai 
Slirfyal  CUM  Lilt 
Gart  tl  ClUlirta 


(May   be   purchased    as   a   set    or 
singly  at  $1.50  a  volume). 

Appieton's 
The  Complete  Home  Library 

Tbt  Ctopitlt  Bttltaa  I  Tht  CtmpltCt  Drtatnaktr 

Tilt  Ctoplttt  BtoM  I   Tbt  Caovltlt  Btastr  Bttk 

Publishera'  price  $1.25  per  volume 

Our  Special  Price  (Sets  only,  4  vols.)  3.00 


ADDRESS  ALL  ORDERS 

THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

583 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


rtised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


Little  Dinners  for  March 


I. 

Clear  Green  Turtle  Soup 

Olives  Radishes 

Scallop  Croquettes.  Sauce  Tartare 

Larded  Fillet  of  Beef,  Garnished  with  Artichoke 

Bottoms  Stuffed  with  D'Uxelles 

Green  Peas  in  Potato  Patties 

French  Endive  Salad 

Pineapple  Bavarian  Cream,  Pompadour 

Coffee 

II. 

Beef  Broth  with  Noodles 

Lobster  Cutlets.  Sauce  Tartare 

Dinner  Rolls 

Chicken   Fillets,  with    Ham   and    Mushrooms 

Endive  and  Gapefruit  Salad 

Toasted  Crackers 

Roquefort  Cheese 

Coffee 


in. 

Strained  Chicken  Gumbo 

Olives  Radishes 

Lobster  k  la  King  in  Ramekins 

Crown  Roast  of  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Orange-and-Romain  Salad 

Maple  Parfait 

Coffee 


\i 


The 

Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


Vol.  XVIII 


MARCH,  1914 


No.  8 


Women  of  the  Pushcart  Markets 

By  Jeanette  Young  Norton 


STREET  peddlers  are  known  the 
world  over,  but  in  no  other  city 
do  the  so-called  pushcart  mar- 
kets flourish  as  they  do  in  New  York. 
In  fact,  they  are  recognized  as  great 
factors  in  the  economical  question  of 
how  to  make  the  market  money  go 
farthest,  in  the  poor  man's  household. 

The  woman's  place  in  this  out-door 
market  world  is  quite  as  important 
as  that  of  the  man.  himself.  He  rises 
before  day  break  to  be  at  the  whole- 
sale market  centers  in  time  to  get  the 
best  bargains.  He  goes  to  one  of  the 
dealers  who  rents  pushcarts  by  the  day, 
10  cents  on  ordinary  days,  25  on  big 
holidays,  gets  his  cart  and  trundles 
it  away  in  the  murkiness  of  early  dawn. 
Few  peddlers  own  their  own  carts,  though 
they  are  inexpensive,  for  the  reason 
that  they  have  no  place  to  store  them 
nights. 

And  again  the  **garages,'*  where  they 
are  rented,  charge  ten  cents  a  day 
storage,  so  it  is  just  as  cheap  to  rent. 

When  the  peddler  comes  back  with 
his  cart  loaded,  he  leaves  it  at  the  dealers 
where  it  is  watched  and  goes  home  where 
the  wife  has  breakfast  waiting,  then 
he  fares  forth  for  the  day.  The  wife, 
after  the  children  have  gone  to  school 
and  her  household  put  in  order,  takes 
a  luncheon  and  possibly  the  youngest 
one  or  two  children  and  goes  to  the  cart. 

Here  she  stands  and  waits  on  cus- 


tomers all  day,  cares  for  the  stock, 
arranges  the  sttiff  attractively  and  is, 
in  every  way,  a  valuable  assistant. 
In  many  instances  the  man  hires  an 
extra  cart  and  she  goes  in  to  another 
section  of  the  street  with  other  wares, 
taking  with  her  after  school  an  older 
son  or  daughter  for  a  helper. 

The  range  of  merchandise  which  may 
be  purchased  from  pushcarts  varies 
with  the  season,  and  the  time  of  day 
or  evening  one  visits  the  markets.  From 
clothing,  jewelry  and  furs,  to  carrots 
and  onions  is  but  a  step  in  the  pushcart 
world,  and  a  short  one  at  that.  Women 
frequently  manage  the  dry  goods,  kit- 
chen utensils,  toys,  china  and  knick- 
knack  carts  entirely  themselves.  At 
the  fruit  centers  they  polish  and  ar- 
range the  fruit  as  well  as  sell.  At  the 
vegetable  carts  they  clean,  cut  and 
freshen  the  bunches,  constantly  scrub- 
bing the  stalks  of  celery  and  fenuchi 
until  they  are  temptingly  white.  While 
at  the  horseradish  cart,  where  this 
tear  inducing  relish  is  grated  fresh  for 
each  customer,  it  is  the  woman  who 
turns  the  wheel  wiping  her  eyes  patiently 
erst  while. 

The  pushcart  merchant  is  his  own 
boss,  his  goods  are  his  own,  bought  and 
paid  for  before  he  offers  them  for  sale; 
he  pays  no  rent,  makes  no  deliveries, 
has  no  * 'charge**  customers,  he  can  afford 
to  sell  at  a  fair  market  price.     He  does 


587 


588 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING^CHOOL  MAGAZINE 


no  advertising  and  has  many  sharp 
competitors,  so  his  only  salvation  is 
to  "buy  cheap."  This  he  is  ever 
on  the  altert  to  do,  taking  advantage 
of  all  that  he  can  hear,  see  and  read 
about,  and  no  exertion  or  sacrifice 
is  too  great  to  make  to  accomplish  his 
object. 

There  are  specialists  among  the  push- 
cart merchants,  as  well  as  in  the  richer 
markets,  and  they  are  unique  enough 
to  be  interestii^  to  the  sight-seer. 
The  "snail"  seller  has  by  way  of  a 
sign  at  the  back  of  his  cart  an  upright 
board  with  the  snails  in  their  shell 
houses  clinging  to  it;  the  rest  of  the 
stock  is  in  the  boxes  below,  and  they 
find  many  purchasers  at  the  modest 
sum  of  twelve  cents  a  pound. 

The  celery  cart  has  every  grade  and 
sells  from  a  single  stalk  to  the  laige 
bunches  familiar  to  general  market- 
goers.  Unusual  fruits  are  another  spe- 
cialty, and  include  the  tropical  fruits 
seldom  seen  on  'the  comer  stands. 

The  sweet  herb-and-pepper  cart  has 


a  sweet  savory  smell,  and  is  a  joy  to 
the  beholder  in  its  riotous  coloring. 

The  cabbage  vender,  who  has  them 
red  and  white  in  all  sizes,  adds  to  his 
stock  "Brussels  sprouts"  and  the  aris- 
tocrat of  the  cabbage  family,  cauli- 
flowers. '  Another  unique  cart  load  is 
formed  of  beans;  they  are  dried  in 
several  varieties,  some  already  soaking 
in  cold  water  so  to  be  ready  for  the  pur- 
chasers use  almost  immediately;  others 
are  pickled,  salted,  even  sugared,  is 
oil,  and  mashed  into  cakes  to  suit  all 
tastes. 

The  peddler  of  the  leatherette  market 
bags  strolls  leisurely  up  and  down, 
knowing  full  well,  if  the  bai^ains  are 
great,  he  will  sell  plenty  of  bags  to  carry 
home  the  overflow  from  the  ones  brought 
from  home. 

The  purchasers  do  not  go  in  for 
variety,  but  quality,  quantity  and  sat- 
isfactory price  are  first  considerations. 
Having  no  place  to  store  extra  supplies, 
the  vender  buys  only  enough  for  the 
day's  trade;  should  stock  remain  over^ 


A  BUSY  CORNEB 


WOMEN  OF  THE  PUSHCART  MARKETS 


GREEN-COODS  MARKET 


the  late  comers  secure  many  bargains; 
should  trade  be  very  lively,  then  the 
vendor  sells  out  early,  in  which  case, 
i£  the  crowd  warrants  it,  he  goes  home 
and  loads  up  with  a  little  dry  merchan- 
dise he  has  stowed  away  under  the  bed; 
it  may  be  china,  socks  and  ties,  oil  cloth, 
furs  or  clothing  of  some  sort.  The  rent 
for  the  cart  has  been  paid  for  the  day, 
so  it  might  just  as  well  be  kept  working. 

One  would  scarcely  expect  to  find 
a  bridal  veil  on  a  pushcart,  but,  never- 
theless, behold  there  it  is,  with  slip- 
pers, gown,  gloves  and  lingerie;  even 
the  wedding  ring  is  at  hand,  all  for  the 
amazing  sum  of  ten  or  twelve  dollars; 
and  let  it  be  known  that  cupid  is  very 
busy  in  the  pushcart  sections,  where 
race  suicide  is  apparently  unknown. 

And  with  all  their  hardships  these  are 
happy  people;  a  whirr  of  busy  tongues, 
and  merry  laughter  greets  one  on  all 
sides.  The  tradesmen  have  a  smile  on 
their  faces  and  cultivate  ingratiating 
ways    to    bring    customers    into    their 


wiles.  And  one  comes  away  with  arms 
full  of  bundles  done  up,  not  all  in  brown 
paper,  but  in  the  gay  sections  of  the 
Sunday  weeklies  that  have  been  blown 
that  way;  the  venders  smile  and  the 
cheer  banishes  pride,  and  clutching 
the  parcel  one  throws  back  a  smile 
and  gay  remark  to  the  merchant  or 
his  wife;  for  these  children  of  sunny 
skies,  quick  to  anger,  quick  to  smile, 
are  not  to  be  taken  seriously,  ^nd  it 
is  all  part  of  a  pushcart  market  lark 
and  evening's  adventure  into  an  almost 
strange  land.  At  night  the  weird  flam- 
ing torches  glare  fitfully  on  the  gay 
head-shawls  of  the  women  and  the 
more  somber  wear  of  their  companions; 
purchasers  of  all  ages  congest  the  space 
between  the  carts  and  stands,  yet  all 
is  orderly  in  the  apparent  disorder, 
and  the  blue  coated  embodiment  of 
the  law,  at  the  comer,  has  little  to  do 
but  to  keep  the  crowd  moving. 

Now  comes  a  hint  from  the  powers 
that    be    that    the    pushcart    markets 


■590 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


.are  doomed;  "traffic  regulations"  are 
disturbed  by  their  presence,  and  they 
have  been  chased  from  one  spot  to 
another,  restricted  to  a  certain  number 
of  blocks  in  a  section  where  they  are 
least  in  the  way,  and  it  looks  like  the 
beginning  of  the  end.  But  the  ques- 
tion is  what  will  the  poor  people  do 
without  them  ?  Public  markets  will 
charge  more  for  food  and  they  must 
live,  no  matter  how  colorless  their 
existence  may  be,  and  they  bear  bur- 


dens enough  already.  Instead  of  ban- 
ishing them  from  existence,  why  not 
devote  one  or  more  open  squares  to 
their  use,  or  short  sections  of  broad 
streets,  where  they  will  not  be  in  the 
"system's"  way.  It  is  safe  to  say, 
education  is  fitting  the  children  of  these 
merchants  for  other  occupations  in 
life,  and  the  young  married  women 
are  not  likely  to  go  the  way  their 
hard-working  mothers  have  gone.  They 
will  become  Americans. 


V  SNAIL-SELLER 


Service 

Though  small  your  candle-light  of  love  may  be 
In  this  great  world,  its  worth  do  not  decry; 

Remember  that  its  little  flame  may  serve 
For  other  hearts  to  light  their  torches  by! 
Arthur  W.  Peach. 


Two  City  Girls  Pioneering  in  Arizona 

Indian  Surroundings — Cattle  Ranges — Caves — Pleasures — Scenery — Rookery — 
New  Fruits  and  Nuts 

By  Julia  Davis  Chandler 

PART  SECOND 

THE  girls  who  dared  are  "mak- 
ing good ; ' '  they  are  very 
happy  as  related  in  ■  the  Jan- 
uary issue  of  this  magazine;  they  have 
let  their  Eastern  friends  hear  from 
them,  from  time,  to  time,  sending  most 
interesting  accounts  -of  their  life,  of 
which  the  following  is  a  condensation; 

"This  is  a  very  strenuous  life  we 
are  living.  I  do  not  know  whether 
I  can  make  things  real  to  you,  but 
since  you  wish  to  turn  us  into  the 
heroines  of  a  story,  surely  life  here 
will  afford  the  material. 

We  are  not  real  pioneers,  as  in  the 
olden  times,  still  we  are  near  enough 
to  that  condition  to  see  just  how  it 
was.  We  have  the  railroad,  with  a 
post-office  and  small  grocery  store  within 
six  miles.  One  family,  who  are  our 
most  intimate  friends,  hved  here  over 
thirty  years,  when  their  only  com- 
munication with  the  outside  world 
was  through  the  fort  about  twenty 
miles  away.  This  fort  is  still  occupied 
and  is  now  being  made  into  a  regimental 
post.  We  were  there  about  a  month 
ago,  driving  out  and  back  in  a  day, 
about  fifty  miles,  over  the  worst  roads 
imaginable,  for  no  roads  are  made. 
They  just  drive  the  most  direct  route 
possible  and  if  a  way  cannot  be  fol- 
lowed any  more,  they  drive  some- 
where else.  The  hills  were  almost 
straight  up  and  down,  and  coming 
back  we  lost  the  brake  on  our  wagon. 
There  were  six  of  us  in  the  wagon 
and  the  horses  could  not  hold  it  down 
the  hills,  so  they  would  start  and  run 
over  rocks  and  gullies  until  we  thought 
we  would  never  get  home  alive. 

It  is  exceedingly  thrilling  and  inter- 
591 


BEFORE  WE  HAD  A  HOUSE 

esting  as  one  goes  along  to  have  your 
friend  say:  "Now  right  here  I  helped 
gather  up  the  stage  driver,  and  he 
was  scattered  all  over  the  bushes, 
after  an  Indian  attack."  The  one 
daughter  of  this  family  had  married 
and  was  hving  about  ten  miles  from 
the  post,  when  a  notice  was  sent  around 
that  the  Indians  were  on  the  war  path. 
She  was  alone  with  a  baby  and  her  near- 
est neighbors  were  about  six  miles  away; 
she  started  for  the  post  on  horseback 
with  the  baby,  but  as  she  rode  up  the 
side  of  one  of  these  hills  she  saw  a 
band  of  Indians  between  her  and  the 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


post.  They  had  not  seen  her,  so  she 
turned  and  went  back  home  and  re- 
mained  hidden  in  the  cellar  for  days. 
One  of  the  boys  escaped  from  a  band 
of  Indians  almost  where  our  house 
stands. 

This  country  was  thickly  populated 
with  Indians,  but  they  seem  to  have 
been  mostly  peaceful  as  the  grinding 
stones  are  found  by  the  dozen.  We 
found  a  very  nice  piece  of  pottery 
near  the  house  not  long  ago.  How- 
ever, there  are  no  Indians  here  now, 
and  the  nearest  reservation  is  some 
distance  away. 

The  cowboys  are  still  here,  though, 
and  are  very  interesting.  Their  stay, 
however,  we  think,  is  short,  if  the 
people  make  a  success  of  farming. 
The  cattle  men  were  very  much  op- 
posed to  having  settlers  come  in  and 
treated  the  first  comers  very  badly, 
cutting  their  fences,  etc.,  but  they  have 
had  to  give  way.  There  are  two 
large  cattle  ranches  in  the  valley  and 
many  private  people  have  cattle  on 
the  range.  The  most  important  thing 
lacking  is  water  and  no  one  can  take 
land  and  get  the  right  to  any  natural 
springs.  The  only  running  water  near 
is  at  Papago  Springs,  which  is  about 
a  mile  and  half  west  of  our  claim. 
This  was  one  of  the  last  strongholds 
of  the  Indians.  It  is  beautiful  there; 
very  heavily  wooded,  but  full  of  gul- 
leys,  canyons  they  are  called.  A  small 
"canon"    or    "canyon"    is    a    "draw," 


and  in  the  draws  we  find  "water  holes." 
These  were  interesting  things  to  us 
before  we  came  and  found  that  they 
were  only  holes  in  the  ground  in  which 
the  water  collects  and  remains  indefi- 
nitely. They  are  usually  in  a  low  place 
and,  then,  the  cattle  stamp  in  them, 
and  thus  make  them  deeper  and  the 
bottom  solid.  Estelle  has  some  quite 
large  ones  on  her  claim,  but  we  have 
only  one  small  one.  There  have  been 
thousands  of  cattle  taken  off  the  range 
within  the  past  year;  we  had  two  large 
"round  ups"  near,  when  they  took  out 
the  yearling  steers  and  bianded  the 
small  calves. 

This  valley  must  be  the  crater  of  an 
extinct  volcano,  probably  before  it 
was  thrown  up  from  the  water,  as  the 
rocks  are  full  of  fossils  of  shells  like 
those  found  at  the  sea  shore.  The 
stones  are  of  a  great  many  varieties, 
with  five  or  six  different  kinds  within 
so  many  feet,  often  two  kinds  melted 
and  run  together.  The  hills  near  are 
limestone  and  are  full  of  caves.  One 
cave  is  about  three-fourths  of  a  mile 
distant,   but   no   white   man    has   been 


A   HAPPY  COUPLE 


TWO  CITY  GIRLS  PIONEERING  IN  ARIZONA 


593 


in  it.  My  neighbor,  Mr.  M — ,  dis- 
covered it,  not  very  long  ago,  when 
he  was  riding  down  a  canyon  and  saw 
the  sktdl  of  a  man  hanging  in  a  tree 
on  a  hill;  he  went  to  investigate  and 
found  tinder  the  tree  the  entrance  to 
this  cave.  It  is  very* deep;  the  boys 
think  about  a  thousand  feet  straight 
down.  We  have  been  in  one  very 
pretty  cave  to  which  they  have  never 
found  an  end.  Two  men  staid  in  for 
two  days  and  couldn't  find  an  end, 
but  two  skeletons  have  been  found; 
one  was  removed  to  some  museum, 
because  it  was  not  an  Indian  skeleton. 
Once  some  men  got  lost  in  there  and 
it  took  a  regiment  from  the  post  to 
find  them. 

They  are  taking  on3rx  from  a  cave 
west  of  this.  At  one  place  we  saw 
the  lime  is  pure,  such  as  is  used  for 
plastering,  only  there  is  so  much  salt 
in  it  the  cows  eat  it.  There  are  many 
kinds  of  minerals,  but  the  mines  are 
about  twenty  miles  distant;  but  this. 
has  all  been  prospected.  The  Hua- 
chuaea  Mountains  are  full  of  gold, 
with  large  paying  quantities,  right  on 
the  surface,  but  the  Government  has 
that  all  reserved  for  their  post.  One 
of  my  best  friends  is  just  opening  a 
copper  vein  two  htmdred  and  sixty 
feet  wide,  which  he  says  is  the  largest 
vein  in  Arizotia.  There  is  silver  here, 
too;  sometimes  gold,  silver  and  copper 
are  all  taken  from  the  same  mine. 

During  May  and  June  it  never  rains, 
but  the  rainy  season  started  with  July,. 
and  it  has  rained  eight  inches  since. 
The  plains  are  covered  with  grass,  which 
cures  on  the  ground  and  keeps  the  cat- 
tle all  the  year;  it  is  now  the  most 
beautiful  emerald  green,  EarUer  in 
the  spring  there  were  dozens  of  varieties 
of  the  most  beautiful  wild  flowers,  all 
brightly  colored,  the  most  vivid  yel- 
lows, oranges,  streaked  with  black, 
blues  and  purples.  We  had  none  dur- 
ing the  dry  weather,  but  they  are 
beginning  to   come  again.     The  three 


nuisances  to  be  rooted  out  are  the  bear 
grass,  the  sagatones  and  mescals;  all 
somewhat  related  to  the  cactus  family, 
though  not  thorny. 

We  have  a  few  mescals;  these  grow 
about  the  size  of  a  tub  and  it  takes 
them  seven  years  to  mature,  then  they 
shoot  up  a  stem  about  ten  or  twelve 
feet  high,  blossom,  fruit,  and  then  the 
stalk  dies;  we  have  very  little  mesquite 
and  sage  brush.  The  principal  trees 
are  white  and  black  oak  and  jxmiper, 
also,  walnut,  ash  and  cotton  woods 
along  the  streams  —  and  once  in  the 
mountains  we  saw  a  little  white  pine. 

No  trees  are  allowed  to  be  cut  with- 
out permission  from  the  forest  rangers 
and,  then,  only  the  dead  trees;  the 
juniper  is  used  for  fence  posts  by  set- 
tlers. We  have  a  hundred  or  more 
trees  on  our  place,  so  we  don't  care; 
they  are  all  oak  except  one  large  juni- 
per. The  mistletoe  grows  plent^ully 
on  the  oaks.  In  Arizona  the  mistle- 
toe has  red  berries  in  December  and 
January;  at  first  they  are  pearly  like 
other  mistletoe.  Aroimd  Phoenix  it 
used  to  be  abundant. 

It  is  like  spring,  although  we  have 
had  hot  weather,  and  sometimes  too 
cool  to  sit  in  the  shade  —  the  alti- 
tude you  know!  The  nights  are  always 
cool.  The  sunsets  are  simply  gor- 
geous and  the  sunrises,  when  we  are 
up  early  enough  to  see  them! 

Several  times  we  have  come  home 
from  dances  after  daylight  and  it 
was  glorious  beyond  description.  The 
moon  and  stars,  too,  are  brighter  than 
at  home;  and  one  can  see  so  far  —  we 
saw  a  fire  on  a  motmtain  a  hundred 
miles  away  and  it  seemed  near.  We 
can  see  to  the  East,  some  hundreds  of 
miles,  five  mountain  ranges,  each  of 
a  different  color.  The  view  is  surely 
fine,  one  range  of  motmtains  beyond 
another!  We  are  a  mile  high  here  and, 
in  going  to  the  post,  we  were  eight 
thousand  feet.  The  highest  peak  is 
ten  thousand  feet  and  we  are  very 
anxious  to  climb  it. 


594 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


We  have  a  trip  in  prospect  for  next 
month  of  one  hundred  and  fifty  miles 
on  horseback.  We  shall  be  gone  five 
days  and  there  will  be  twenty  or  more 
in  the  bunch.  This  will  take  us  up 
this  peak  and  include  a  dance  going 
and  coming.  We  are  quite  enthusias- 
tic over  it.  We  ride  horseback  a  great 
deal,  but  often  I  go  behind  a  splendid 
team,  and  Rosa  and  her  escort  accom- 
pany us  on  horseback.    . 

We  girls  have  a  horse  of  oiu:  own 
now  and  the  dearest  colt  a  year  old. 
Dolly  is  a  mustang  pony,  the  best 
and  easiest  horse  I  was  ever  on.  Mr. 
John  M —  has  five  or  six  saddle  horses 
and  they  are  at  our  disposal  at  any 
time;  we  had  two  of  his  horses  in  our 
pasture  last  week.  Rosa  is  out  with 
John  —  planting  our  farm,  incidentally 
having  a  good  time.  My  friend  will 
harrow  it  again,  so  you  see  the  boys 
are  some  good. 

We  have  five  acres  in  beans;  they 
are  the  best  and  surest  crop  and  net 
twenty-five  dollars  per  acre. 

Yesterday  I  was  at  our  neighbor's 
and  made  him  bread,  pies,  and  a  pud- 
ding, washed  his  dishes  and  cleaned 
up  his  house;  so  we  work  together. 
Both  of  these  boys  ranch  alone. 

"A  year  ago  this  month  I  kissed  the 
shrine  of  St.  Anne  of  Beau  Pr6,  at  Que- 
bec—  I,  a  member  of  a  Pennsylvania 
German  sect, —  and  asked  her  to  send 
me  some  one  to  love  me.  Then  I  had 
never  even  heard  of  this  town  or  thought 
of  Arizona;  but  within  the  year  she 
has  sent  me  here,  where  it  was  just 
waiting  for  me.  We  four  surely  do 
have  delightful  times. 

We  attended  a  barbecue  the  Fourth 
of  July,  the  old  cowboy  custom  of 
roasting  a  beef  whole  in  the  ground. 
We  then  went  to  a  dance  twenty  miles 
away  and  got  home  the  next  forenoon. 

When  going  down  Rosa  and  her  John 
had  gone  on  ahead  and  we  got  in  a 
thtmder  storm.  We  had  not  seen  a 
house  for  about  ten  miles,  but,  at  last, 
we  came  to  an  old  adobe  house,  and 


went  in.  It  was  partly  filled  with 
hay.  After  the  storm  was  over,  Mr. 
M —  went  for  the  horses.  As  he  would 
be  gone  some  time,  I  decided  I  could 
put  on  my  dancing  clothes  right  there, 
since  it  would  be  dark  when  we  got  in. 
Just  as  I  had  my*dress  off,  three  Mexican 
men  came  to  the  door.  They  could 
not  understand  me,  nor  I  them,  and 
I  surely  was  scared,  but,  at  last,  they 
made  me  understand  that  they  wanted 
me  to  be  sure  and  shut  the  door  when 
I  left.  And  I  made  them  understand 
that  all  I  wanted  was  for  them  to 
go  away,  and  then  we  were  happy. 

Our  housekeeping  is  not  very  hard, 
as  you  may  judge  by  all  this  fun. 
One  week  Rosa  cooks  and  I  wash  dishes, 
and  the  next  week  we  change  work. 
Rosa  has  been  doing  all  the  baking 
of  bread  so  far  and  has  had  good  luck; 
we  wash  about  every  other  week, 
but  we  never  allow  work  to  interfere 
with  pleasure. 

•  We  now  have  a  house  on  each  claim; 
mine  is  a  wooden  house  of  just  one 
room,  twelve  by  fourteen  feet,  with 
four  windows  and  a  door.  Rosa's  is 
even  smaller  and  is  built  of  tin,  but 
then  she  only  sleeps  there.  They  are 
about  a  quarter  of  a  mile  apart.  She 
takes  her  lantern  and  trots  off  at  bed- 
time. The  reason  we  live  in  my  house 
is  because  I  have  trees  on  my  daim 
and  the  house  is  built  under  a  tree. 

We  have  two  hundred  and  forty 
acres  fenced.  We  tuck  in  our  married 
sister  and  the  baby,  when  they  come, 
and  her  husband  and  his  father  sleep 
outside  in  western  fashion.  The  baby 
is  a  true  westerner,  for  she  creeps  at 
five  months  and  sits  alone.  Before 
she  was  three  months  old  we  took  her 
off  on  a  mountain  jaunt  of  eight  miles. 

About  our  food  supplies,  we  have  to 
buy  everything,  nearly,  the  first  year. 
Everyone  eats  a  great  deal  of  bacon 
and  becomes  expert  in  cooking  it,  and 
baking-powder  biscuits.  It  is  hard  to 
get  fresh  meat  even  with  cattle  every- 
where on  the  range.    We  eat  a  great 


TWO  CITV  GIRLS  PIONEERING  IN  ARIZONA 


$^& 


deal  of  fniit,  which  we  get  from  a  family 
that  has  lived  here  thirty  years  and  raise 
every  kind;  but  all  kinds  sell  for  five 
cents  a  pound. 

About  the  only  native  things,  I  know 
of,  that  we  eat  are  acorns,  which  are 
smaller  than  the  eastern,  but  taste  more 
like  chestnuts.  Walnuts  are  very  plen- 
tiful but  are  rather  small.  We  gathered 
about  five  bushels  last  week.  Wild 
grapes  are  also  very  abundant  and  are 
just  getting  ripe,  now  in  July.  We 
shall  gather  some  for  jelly.  They  are 
like  "chicken  grapes"  at  home.  Early 
in  the  year  we  made  jelly  from  the 
manzanitos  berry.  These  grow  on  a 
bush  resembling  laurel,  but  the  bark 
is  bright  red  and  the  wood  is  as  hard 
as  iron.  The  bushes  are  beautiful 
and  the  jelly  tastes  something  like 
currant.  The  Mexicans  make  a  whiskey 
and  a  candy  from  the  stalk  of  the 
mescal,  and  preserves  from  the  fruit; 
also  from  the  fruit  of  the  round  cactus, 
but  I  have  not  yet  eaten  it." 

Cactus  Candy  sells  for  a  dollar  a 
box  when  nnailed.  It  is  quite  nice 
and  resembles  crystallized  pineapple, 
somewhat. 

An  enterprising  firm  sends  out  the 
following  lines: 

** Across  the  world  we'll  send  it 

And  pay  the  parcel's  post, 
The  daintiest  confection, 

The  one  *She*  likes  the  most. 
Crystallized  cactus  candy  — 

Garnered  sunshine  sweet, 
Grown  from  virgin  soil. 

Child  of  light  and  heat; 


Dollar  will  buy  the  box. 
We'll  send  it  charges  paid; 

Win  thanks  for  something  different 
From  your  own  delighted  maid." 

If  I  can  not  give  you  much  new 
information  about  cooking,  I  can  teU 
you  how  I  made  an  awning  for  a  window 
from  a  strip  of  tin  and  two  boards, 
and  a  refrigerator  out  of  a  sack  and 
a  box.  It  is  a  peculiar  thing  here, 
that  to  keep  anything  cool  one  puts 
it  in  a  pail,  or  jar,  and  wraps  a  wet 
cloth  around,  and  places  it  in  the  wind; 
soon  the  contents  are  so  cold  as  to  make 
the  teeth  ache.  We  are  getting  an 
Indian  bottle  for  our  drinking  water, 
which  I  suppose  you  have  seen?  They 
are  not  glazed  and  allow  enough  water 
to  seep  through  the  crock  and  evaporate 
fast  enough  to  keep  the  contents  cool. 
People  have  no  cellars,  only  "dug-outs" 
for  vegetables.  We  shall  have  one, 
when  we  have  vegetables  to  put  in  it. 

We  draw  all  our  wood  and  cut  it, 
and  draw  our  water  nearly  a  mile. 
The  boys  would  do  it  for  us,  but  we 
prefer  being  independent.  We  have 
four  kegs  holding  about  twelve  gallons, 
each,  and  they  just  fit  into  our  small 
wagon.' 

Thus  are  these  plucky  girls  making 
a  homestead  where  not  long  ago  Indians 
roamed;  they  prefer  doing  this  work  to 
the  strain  of  civilization  and  are  assay- 
ing the  heaviest  work  without  even  a 
Mexican  or  Indian,  for  a  Caliban,  to 
*  'scrape  trencher  and  wash  dish,  and  fetch 
in  firing  at  requiring." 


The  Lady  of  the  Angel  GJce 


By  Frances  Campbell  Sparhawk 


IT'S  very  nice  —  yes,  delicious.  I 
wish  you  would  taste  it.  This 
was  my  pick  at  the  picnic,"  he 
laughed,  standing  before  Amy  Hastings 
who  had  wandered  away  —  although 
only  a  short  distance  —  from  her  hos- 
tess, for  she  was  stu-e  the  latter  would 
enjoy  a  few  words  alone  with  the  yotmg 
man  to  whom  she  had  been  betrothed 
that  very  month.  Miss  Hastings  had 
been  m^Jdng  an  uncomfortable  third, 
and  she  had  tactfully  dropped  out  and 
seated  herself  under  one  of  the  great 
pine  trees  where  the  sighing  of  the  wind 
through  the  boughs,  the  sparkle  of  the 
river  flowing  by  a  few  yards  below  and 
the  brilliant  sky  overhead  was  giving 
her  enough  to  look  at  and  enjoy.  She 
had  been  talking  merrily  all  the  morning 
and  liked  being  by  herself  for  a  few 
minutes.  Yet,  when  the  tall  stranger 
had  appeared  with  a  plate  of  her  cake 
in  his  hand,  the  very  cake  that  she  had 
made  early  that  morning  to  help  out 
the  friends  whom  she  was  visiting, 
the  interruption  had  been  pleasant  to 
her,  probably  because  she  found  this 
same  tall  stranger  so  agreeable. 

His  flattery  was  all  the  more  delight- 
ftd,  because  he  was  so  unconscious  that 
she  herself  was  the  maker  of  the  cake 
he  eulogized  so  warmly.  It  was  a 
pleasurable  embarrassment  to  listen  to 
his  merry  laugh  as  he  declared: 

**Now,  if  I  were  the  prince  of  a  fairy 
tale,  I  should  not  choose  my  Cinderella 
by  her  slippers,  no  matter  how  dainty 
her  feet  might  be,  although  dainty  feet 
are  a  great  charm!  And  he  had  glanced 
slyly  at  Amy*s  small  and  very  pretty 
foot.  **I  should  choose  my  Cinderella 
from  her  angel  cake,**  he  had  added, 
looking  straight  into  Amy's  eyes  and 
smiling  with  an  amusement  that  was 
still  unconscious. 

SH 


The  girl  sprang  up.  "How  the  sun 
follows  one  in  the  woods,"  she  said. 
**IVe  been  enduring  it  until  I'm  roasted, 
because  the  view  of  the  river  from  this 
spot  is  so  lovely.  Have  you  noticed 
it?" 

And  if  her  companion  observed  the 
flush  that  her  greatest  effort  could  not 
control,  he  attributed  it  to  the  hot  sun 
and  the  sudden  motion.  And  yet  the 
strange  part  of  the  incident  was  that  he 
began  to  call  her  to  himself,  "the  lady 
of  the  angel  cake",  because  the  two  had 
come  to  Him  together;  and.  in  his  very 
frequent  thoughts  of  her  hereafter,  he 
continued  to  call  her  so. 

"Only  a  half  slice  more,"  he  said  the 
next  moment.  "Do  take  it.  How  I 
wish  you  would  taste  it.  No?  Then 
here  goes;  it's  too  good  to  waste." 
And  he  proceeded  to  eat  it  himself. 
"Try  the  river  from  this  point,"  he 
said.  "The  view  seems  to  me  even 
better."  And  at  his  suggestion  she 
seated  herself  on  the  projecting  roots 
of  a  near-by  tree;  he  dropped  down  at 
the  base  of  another,  a  few  feet  away. 

After  a  few  appreciative  comments 
from  both  upon  the  scene  before  them, 
he  began  to  tell  her  of  one  of  the  scenes 
on  the  Canadian  Pacific  road,  which 
this  view  recalled  to  him  in  miniature. 
"But  perhaps  you  have  been  there?" 
he  asked  suddenly.  Lieaming  that  she 
was  no  traveler,  he  told  her  of  an  adven- 
ture on  that  road.  Prom  this  he  passed 
to  other  adventures,  in  which,  although 
he  prefaced  them  by,  "I  knew  a  fellow", 
or  "Some  one  told  me"  of  such  and  such 
a  thing,  Amy  suspected  that  he  had 
had  more  part  than  he  confessed.  If 
it  were  so,  he  was  a  traveler  of  coiuage 
and  experience.  The  former  he  looked 
and,  although  young,  he  might  have 
had  wide  experience. 


THE  LADY  OF  THE  ANGEL  CAKE 


597 


From  these  incidents  and  escapes,  as 
some  of  them  certainly  were,  they  came 
to  talking  of  many  things.  How  inter- 
estingly he  talked,  not  to  exhibit  his 
knowledge,  but  because  thoughts  came 
to  him  and  he  had  f  oxmd  some  one  who 
could  respond  to  them. 

"Wen!  At  last!"  cried  a  girl's 
voice. 

Amy  looked  up,  to  find  her  hostess 
smiling  down  upon  her  with  eyes  so 
mischievous  that  she  suddenly  wondered 
how  long  she  had  been  sitting  there 
with  the  stranger  ?  Ten  minutes  ?  Half 
an  hour?  Prom  all  that  she  had  heard 
and  felt,  it  might  have  been  days.  It 
was  not  an  hoiu*.  Yet  it  had  marked 
her  life. 

The  stranger  avowed  that  he  had 
been  striving  to  entertain  this  unknown 
woodland  princess.  He  gave  his  name, 
Henry  Wallace.  He  was  visiting  friends 
in  the  town,  as  Amy  was.  But  neither 
family  was  known  to  the  other.  He 
bowed  himself  away,  although  with 
reluctance. 

The  acquaintance  was  at  an  end.  He 
would  never  think  of  it  again.  It  was 
a  mere  episode.  Yet  to  her  it  had 
been  a  revelation  of  what  that  man 
mtist  be  like  who  cotdd  ever  be  all  in 
all  to  her.  While  he  was  with  her,  she 
had  been  desperately  afraid  that  in 
some  unimagined  way  it  would  come 
out  that  it  was  she  i^ho  had  made  the 
angel  cake.  But,  when  he  had  gone,  she 
knew  that  a  joy  had  gone  out  of  her 
life  with  him.  Her  only  conafort  was 
that  no  one  dreamed  of  her  folly.  For 
Amy's  beautifiil  lips  had  shut  in  closely 
all  reference  to  the  episode. 

A  year  went  by.  And  all  the  while 
the  angel  cake,  which  she  made  many 
times,  continued  to  suggest  the  prince, 
seen  and  forgetting,  if  to  her  own  folly, 
not  forgotten. 

The  following  summer  f oimd  her  with 
her  father  and  younger  sister  —  all 
her  family  —  living  in  a  different  city 
and  taking  up  the  duties  and  pleasures 


of  life  with  a  heart,  not  broken,  although 
she  secretly  felt  that  it  was  seriously 
impaired.  It  was  a  beautiful  June 
morning  that  her  sister  Katherine  turned 
from  studying  her  summer  gowns,  with 
some  criticism  but  more  satisfaction,  and 
ran  down  into  the  kitchen. 

"Now,  Amy,"  she  began,  her  young 
face  bright  with  eagerness;  for  she  was 
only  seventeen,  three  years  Amy's  jun- 
ior, and  everything  as  it  flew  into  her 
mind  seemed  of  vast  inportance  to  her, 
"are  you  too  busy  to  listen?" 

"Try  me,"  answered  the  other  glanc- 
ing up  with  a  smile  from  the  mixture  she 
was  industriously  beating.  The  girls 
were  motherless;  to  Amy  her  younger 
sister  was  very  dear,  and  to  Katharine 
Amy's  beauty,  her  graceful  carriage, 
her  charm  of  voice  and  manner  were 
fascinations  to  be  perpetually  admired, 
and  imitated  so  far  as  possible. 

"Let's  return  some  of  our  visits  this 
afternoon,'  she  went  on.  "WE  have 
had  a  good  many,  considering  that  we've 
been  here  only  a  little  more  than  a 
month.  But  if  we  want  them  to  go  on, 
we  must  be  prompt,  you  know,  in  pay- 
'  ing  back  those  we  have  had." 

For  a  moment  Amy  did  not  answer. 
She  poured  out  her  cake  into  the  pan 
and  smoothed  and  smoothed  it  there 
with  the  air  of  being  miles  away  from 
her  sister  and  the  kitchen  in  which  they 
both  were  standing.  For  it  was  a  year 
ago  that  very  day  that  she  had  sat  with 
the  stranger  in  the  beautiftil  woods, 
with  the  murmur  of  the  river  at  their 
feet  and  the  sounds  of  merriment  com- 
ing to  them  from  the  distance.  And 
now  again  she  seemed  to  be  seeing  him 
before  her  and  it  was  his  voice  to  which 
she  was  listening  while  Katharine  waited. 

"Amy!"  cried  the  other  at  last.  "Do 
you  have  to  put  yoiu*  mind  into  your 
cake  as  well  as  your  spoon?  But 
perhaps  that's  the  reason  it's  so  good," 
she  added  with  a  laugh.  "Yet  it  seems 
to  me  you  might  be  able  to  answer  a 
simple  question."  .    .     .. 

"To  be  sure  I  will,  Katie,  dear,;and 


598 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOL  MAGAZINE 


exactly  the  way  you  want  to  have  me 
do  it." 

This  was  how  it  happened  that  Nana 
Brown,  in  her  cool  kimono  and  her 
luxurious  chair,  glancing  up  from  her 
novel  out  of  the  window  of  her  bedroom, 
immediately  dropped  her  book  into  her 
lap  and  spoke  to  her  sister  in  the  next 
room. 

"Come  here  this  instant,  Rose," 
she  called  softly,  "and  tell  me  who  these 
two  girls  are?  I  never  saw  them  until 
this  moment.  But  they're  making 
straight  for  our  front  door.  One  of  us 
must  know  them." 

"It's  not  I,"  retorted  Rose.  "Per- 
haps  they're  agents,"  she  added  the 
next  moment. 

"No,  agents  don't  hunt  in  couples. 
Besides,  these  girls  have  not  that  cut. 
Well,  we're  bound  to  find  out,  for  they're 
coming  up  the  steps  now.  There's 
the  bell." 

After  a  minute  of  silent  listening, 
the  maid  entered  with  cards. 

"What  effrontery !"  cried  Rose.  "They 
honor  us  both,  it  seems.  The  name 
doesn't  help  me  at  all  —  Hastings! 
The  idea  of  trying  to  force  themselves 
upon  us  in  this  way.  It's  outrageous! 
Delia,"  she  began,  turning  to  the  maid, 
"tell  them  they've  made  a  mistake; 
they've  come  to  the  wrong  house;  we 
don't  know  them." 

"No,  no!  Hold  on  a  minute,  Delia," 
cried  Nana.  "Don't  say  that.  Rose," 
she  added  to  her  sister.  "They've  come 
to  the  wrong  house,  of  course.  But 
I  know  it's  anything  but  effrontery. 
Prom  the  glimpse  I  had  of  them,  they 
are  ladies.  I'm  very  sure  it's  their  mis- 
take, not  their  pushing.  I  have  it  now !' ' 
she  cried,  with  another  glance  at  the 
cards.  They  are  the  two  girls  who 
came  to  town  with  their  father  this 
spring.  He  bought  the  Armstrong  house, 
so,  I  suppose  they  mean  to  live  here; 
I've  heard  of  them.  To  be  sure,  we 
decided  not  to  call;  but  that  was  only 
becwse  we  had  so  many  acquaintances 


now.     When    we    see    them    we    may 
change  our  minds." 

"I  shan't,  retorted  Rose.  "But  I 
suppose  we  musn't  snub  them  too  hard. 
Say  we  will  be  down,  Delia."  And  she 
began  to  get  into  her  gown,  a  procedure 
which  Nana  promptly  followed.  "After 
all,"  she  added  to  her  sister,  "when  they 
see  us,  there'll  be  nothing  to  explain; 
they'll  know  instantly  that  they've 
made  a  mistake,  which  will  be  much 
pleasanter  than  if  we  told  them  of  it. 

*Yes,"  answered  Rose.  "And  if  they 
are  ladies,  as  you  insist,  they  will  bow 
themselves  out  of  the  nearest  door." 

"But  things  did  not  turn  out  in  that 
way.  Por  as  Rose  advanced  to  greet 
the  strangers,  Amy  said  to  her: 

"We  are  so  sorry  to  have  been  out 
when  you  and  your  sister  came  to  see 
us.  Miss  Brown.  We  are  very  glad 
to  find  you  both  at  home." 

Rose  did  not  dare  to  glance  at  Nana; 
but  holding  Amy's  hand  in  her  own,  she 
agreed  with  her  sister  as  to  the  status 
of  the  visitors.  How  beautiful  the 
elder  was;  and  the  younger  if  not  beau- 
tiful was  very  wideawake  and  charming- 
The  situation  was  saved;  and  they 
should  never  find  out  their  mistake,  at 
least,  not  until  all  four  had  grown 
to  be  such  friends  that  it  woiddn't 
matter. 

But  things  did  not  turn  out  even 
according  to  this  reckoning. 

In  five  minutes,  they  were  talking 
like  old  acquaintances.  In  ten,  they 
had  discovered  mutual  friends.  Nana 
was  secretly  delighted  at  the  advice 
she  had  given;  the  Hastings  girls  were 
so  bright  and  interesting,  they  would 
be  an  acquisition.  She  and  Rose  would 
return  this  visit  very  soon.  That  would 
put  matters  right  if  anything  should 
leak  out;  but  it  wovild  not. 

But  the  next  minute, glancing  out  of 
the  window,  she  saw  coming  up  to  the 
house  one  of  the  Misses  Brown  whose 
visit  Amy  and  her  sister  evidently 
believed  themselves  to  be  at  that  in- 
stant retvimingr 


THE  LADY  OF  THE  ANGEL  CAKE 


599 


Nana  would  run  and  meet  her  at  the 
door  and  explain  matters  in  a  breath 
and  warn  her.  But  Katharine  held  her 
by  something  she  was  saying  to  her, 
Delia  answered  the  ring  promptly,  and 
then  it  was  too  late.  She  threw  a 
flashing  glance  at  Rose,  which  said: 
"Hold  tight !    Fight  it  out  on  this  line !" 

But  Rose  could  not  see  how. 

Then  the  catastrophe  arrived.  For 
as  the  strangers  rose  to  greet,  the  new 
arrival,  and,  also,  to  take  their  leave. 
Miss  Brown,  the  second,  hearing  their 
names  —  for  they  were  all  at  too  dose 
quarters  to  allow  them  to  pass  without 
a  word  —  turned  to  '  them  and  said 
with  marked  emphasis: 

"I  was  so  sorry  you  were  both  out; 
when  my  sister  and  I  called  the  other 
day.  We  had  heard  of  you,  and  we 
wanted  to  meet  you,  not  merely  to 
leave  cards." 

Nana  and  Rose  held  their  breath. 
The  puzzled  look,  which  had  dawned  in 
Amy's  eyes  at  the  sound  of  Miss  Brown's 
name,  deepened  into  conviction  and  dis- 
may. While  she  paused  an  instant, 
breathless  also,  the  speaker  added  to 
the  desperation  of  the  situation  by 
saying  with  a  smile  at  Rose  and  Nana: 

"You  see,  girls,  you  were  wise  to 
change  your  minds.  You  remember 
you  told  me  you  were  not  going  to  call, 
you  had  so  many  friends  already." 

As  the  five  stood  grouped  together, 
in  a  mesh  from  which  for  the  moment 
no  one  could  extricate  herself,  for  even 
the  speaker  perceived  that  she  had  made 
a  break  of  some  kind,  Katharine's 
sense  of  fun  was  so  great  that  in  spite 
of  her  embarrassment  she  giggled.  But 
the  flush  risen  on  Amy's  face  deepened  to 
crimson;  and  the  sternness  of  morti- 
fication was  in  the  eyes  she  fixed  upon 
her  hostesses. 

"We  have  come  to  the  wrong  house," 
she  said,  and  her  voice  sounded  choked. 
"But  we  are  strangers;  perhaps  you 
will  not  tmderstand  us.  Neither  of  you 
called  her  sister  by  name.  That  might 
have  helped  us." 


"We  did  not  want  to!  "cried  Nana 
eagerly.  "Of  course  we  understood 
exactly  who  it  was.  And  we  were 
delighted  to  see  you.    We  meant — " 

"Oh,  how  amusing!"  cried  the  other 
Miss  Brown,  who,  at  first,  had  been 
piqued  that  this  visit,  which  must  have 
been  later  than  hers,  had  been  returned 
before  her  own.  But  it  had  been  in- 
tended for  her?  It  really  was  very 
amusing. 

"I  beg — "  cried  Nana,  still  more 
eagerly  breaking  in  where  she  had  been 
interrupted.  We  were  so  —  one  mo- 
ment, Miss  Hastings.  Let  me  explain 
to  you  —  " 

For  Amy,  her  color  still  high  and  try- 
ing to  keep  her  quivering  face  stem,  had 
turned  to  the  door  and  was  about  to 
pass  through  it.  But  at  the  words,  and 
espedally  the  tone,  she  paused  and 
looked  back  at  the  speaker. 

"Then  you  do  understand,"  she  said, 
that  "my  sister  and  I  came  to  the  wrong 
hotise  by  mistake?" 

"Why,  I  —  "  began  Nana  once  more. 

But  still  again  a  voice  broke  in  —  this 
time  a  new  one. 

For  while  they  had  all  been  too 
much  occupied  with  each  other  to  see 
or  hear  an3rthing  outside,  a  step  had 
sounded  on  the  porch  and  then  in  the 
hall,  and  a  man  had  stood  gazmg  into 
the  room  with  amazement,  at  fiirst,  even 
bewilderment,  then  as  his  eyes  fastened 
upon  Amy,  with  a  joy  approaching 
rapture. 

After  all  this  weary  time  he  had  found 
her  again,  at  last  —  and  here  —  here, 
of  all  places!  .It  was  no  wonder  that 
he  interrupted  and  threw  back  Amy's 
assertion  with  vigorous  denial. 

"The  wrong  house,  my  lady  of  the 
angel  cake?"  he  cried.  "Never!  Never! 
And  so  I've  found  you  again,  at  last!" 
he  went  on  coming  forward  to  her  with 
a  lightness  in  his  tones  to  hide  the 
emotion  in  his  heart.  For  he,  too,  had 
waited  and  longed,  and,  also,  he  had 
sought. 

Amy,  looking  up,  gazed  in  silence  at 


600 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


the  tall  stranger  of  the  day  of  the  picnic. 
And  Nana  and  Rose  greeted  their  half 
brother,  returned  sooner  than  he  had 
been  looked  for  from  his  trip  to  the 
West. 

"Just  a  year  this  very  day  —  but  you 
wouldn't  remember.  Perhaps  you  do 
not  remember  me  at  all?  he  questioned 
Amy^  still  striving  to  keep  the  joy  out 
of  his  tones  in  the  presence  of  others. 
This  lady  and  I  have  met  before,** 
he  explained  to  the  wondering  group. 
And  again  he  looked  at  Amy. 

But  her  fleeting  smile  of  recognition 
and  her  demure  tones,  as  she  acknow- 
ledged that  the  sky  and  the  river  and 
the  stranger's  interesting  stories  still 
held  a  place  in  her  niemory,  betrayed 
nothing  that  she  would  have  hidden. 

He  began  to  tell  the  others  the  episode 
of  the  picnic.  "But  you  surely  would 
have  remembered  a  good  deal  more,"  he 


said,  turning  to  her,  again,"  if  only  I 
could  have  persuded  you  to  taste  that 
delicious  angel  cake  I  was  devouring  so 
greedily  —  " 

"Why !' '  interrupted  Katharine  proud- 
ly, "has  the  fame  of  Amy's  angel  cake 
gone  as  far  as  that?" 

"What!  Was  it  your  sister's  cake?" 
he  cried,  wheeling  about  upon  the  girl. 

*  *  Very  Ukdy ,' '  she  responded  promptly ; 
"I  remeoiber  she  told  me  she  made 
some   for  her  friends  that  morning." 

"Oh,  the  speech  about  Cinderella 
and  the  slippers  and  the  cake,  if  he  had 
been  the  prince!  But  he  must  have 
long  ago  forgetton  such  nonsense.  No! 
He  was  saying  it  to  her  over  again  — 
with  his  eyes! 

"The  wrong  house,"  she  repeated  in 
her  farewells  to  the  sisters. 

But  in  her  heart  she  knew  it  had  been 
the  right  one. 


The  Sweetness  of  the  Hour 


By  Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson 


**Our  victories  are  in  our  daily  work^ 

A  FEW  warm  simny  days  of  May 
had  coaxed  the  apple  and  pear 
•  trees  into  paradisiacal  loveli- 
ness. Boughs,  which  a  month  earlier, 
sere  and  sullen  looking,  had  buffeted 
with  roistering  winds,  now,  suddenly 
seemed  to  sense  some  fair  white  dream 
of  immemorial  Springs.  And  anon  the 
orchard  was  sweet  with  original  bloom. 

Simultaneously,  swarms  of  great  gold- 
en honey  bees  hovered  in  and  out 
among  the  blossoms,  till  the  air  fairly 
thrummed  with  their  advent.  From 
what  far  hives  they  had  journeyed  no 
voice  foretold,  yet  guided  by  subtle 
fragrances  they  had  found  their  way 
to  these  beckoning  branches  of  sweet- 
ness and  of  service. 

A  week  later,  the  shifting  pageantry 
of  Maytide  lured  with  fresh  signals. 
Under  the  blossom-rifled  fruit  trees  lay 


light  drifts  of  mimic  snow  —  and  the 
bees  were  gone.  Here  they  had  wcrked 
and  sung  and  garnered  the  sweetness 
of  the  hour.  I  wondered,  if  the  owner 
of  the  orchard  could  say  as  much. 

The  trouble  with  most  of  us  is  we  are 
too  prone  to  linger  regretfully  over  the 
blossom-drift  of  past  endeavors  and 
ignore  the  beckoning  flower  of  the  pre- 
sent. We  watch  our  apple-bloom  dream 
wither,  forgetting,  imlike  the  bee,  the 
fresh  signals.  And  herein  is  whwe  we 
lose  the  trail  of  happiness,  and  the  tang 
and  zest  of  Uving  grow  stale  and  profit- 
less. 

There  is,  indeed,  a  strange  analogy 
between  a  happy  man  and  a  honey  bee. 
Both  have  learned  to  look  for  the  sweet 
things  in  life,  have  cultivated  the  re- 
quired actunen  to  recognize  such  when 
they  appear,  and  devised  a  way  to 
treasure  them  afterward,  till  the  whole 


THE  SWEETNESS  OF  THE  HOUR 


601 


honey  comb  of  memory  is  filled  with  their 
sweetness.  In  short,  they  have  both 
striven  for  that  which  has  "survival 
value." 

"Actions",  says  one  of  our  modem 
thinkers,  "have  survival  value  accord- 
ing to  the  degree  of  good  that  grows  out 
of  them."  "Survival  value"  is  a  new 
phrase,  but  in  it  we  recognize  the  only 
satisfactory  mental  yardstick  for  measur- 
ing the  deeds  of  past  and  present.  Its 
use  is  profitable  to  humble  and  great 
alike.  Luther  Burbank,  with  wizard 
touch  creating  the  spineless  cactus  that 
is  changing  Western  arid  deserts  to 
fertile  pasture  lands,  and  the  woman 
making  a  happy  home,  are  thereby 
sharers  of  a  common  guerdon  by  thus 
shaping  that  which  is  dedicated  to  the 
future 

Some  years  ago,  a  noted  optimist 
confided  to  his  followers  that  the 
secret  of  happiness  lay  "in  never  allow- 
ing one's  energies  to  stagnate."  And, 
one  by  one,  as  we  measure  the  happy 
people  whom  we  have  known  with  this 
statement,  we  are  obliged  to  confirm 
the  truth  of  it.  Without  exception  they 
have  been  men  and  women  wedded  to 
progressive  ideals  and  consecrated  to 
action.  And  somewhere  back  in  the 
workaday  pathway  of  rigid  endeavor 
they  have  mastered  a  touch  and  go 
blitheness  of  spirit,  a  sort  of  co-ordina- 
ting resilience  of  mind  and  body  that 
enables  them  to  pass  lightly  from  one 
finished  task  to  the  next  in  the  sheer 
joy  of  accomplishment. 

"The  difference  in  men",  says  the 
sage  of  East  Aurora,  "is  largely  in  the 
way  they  use  the  hours  that  are  their 
own.  Tell  me  what  a  man  does  between 
seven  and  ten  o'clock  in  the  evening, 
and  I  will  tell  you  what  he  is.  Also 
I  wiU  tell  you  where  he  will  be  ten  years 
from  now."  To  which  I  should  like  to 
add  that  the  difference  in  women  is  due 
to  precisely  the  same  cause.  While  the 
determining  evidence  of  a  woman's 
character  may  not  be  found  between 
seven  and  ten  in  the  evening,  the  way 


she  spends  her  morning  and  afternoon 
hours  are  without  question  eloquent  of 
her  destiny. 

The  Twentieth  Century  woman ,  in 
search  of  Ponce  de  Leon'sfabledfountain  , 
is  learning  to  look  for  perennial  reju- 
venation in  her  own  mind, and  finding 
the  price  of  youth  is  to  keep  vitally 
interested  in  something.  We  have  no 
more  convincing  proof  of  this  than  is 
found  in  the  refreshing  personality  of 
Mrs.  Amelia  Barr,  who,  at  the  age  of 
eighty-three  years,  has  given  us  an  auto- 
biography —  "All  the  Days  of  My 
Life"  —  almost  eclipsing  with  charm- 
ing interest  any  of  the  sixty  novels  from 
the  pen  of  this  versatile  author.  Closely 
following  this  talented  young-old  lady 
might  be  mentioned  the  names  of  Mme. 
Sarah  Bernhardt  and  Lillian  Russell, 
neither  of  whom  has  ever  allowed  her 
interest  in  life  to  flag. 

No  one  grows  old  so  fast  or  so  tm- 
attractively  as  those  whose  minds  are 
inactive.  Just  try  allowing  your  mind 
to  become  passive  for  a  short  time  and 
note  how  the  jaw  drops,  the  facial 
muscles  sag,  and  the  eyes  grow  luster- 
less.  One  can  readily  imagine  the  in- 
delible effect  of  prolonged  inactivity 
while  sensing  more  acutely  the  wisdom 
of  Cowper's  lines,  — 
"Absense  of  occupation  is  not  rest, 

A  mind  quite  vacant  is  a  mind  dis- 
tressed." 

It  is  an  tmpleasant  picture.  Let  us 
erase  it  and  turn  to  the  illumined  face  of 
the  worker. 

"Happy  is  the  man  who  has  foimd 
his  work,"  said  Stevenson,  which  means 
the  work  that  makes  the  strongest 
appeal  to  one's  delight  in  doing.  For, 
not  only  is  it  "to  business  that  we  love 
to  rise  betimes  and  go  to  it  with  delight," 
it  is  tmfailingly  this  chosen  work  in 
which  we  do  or  shall  excel. 

And,  by  the  way,  it  is  just  this  self- 
same joyousness,  felt  in  honest  labor, 
that  has  lifted  household  drudgery  to 
the  dignity  of  domestic  science,  and  that 
is  daily  furnishing  the  Efficiency  Expert, 


602 


THE  BOSTON  CXX)EING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


in  every  line  of  tiseftil  trade. 

The  leagues  lying  between  the  plod- 
ding path  of  the  artisan  and  the  glow- 
ing heights  of  the  artist  ever  must  be 
traversed  in  the  winged  sandals  of  rap- 
ture, for  "Art  is  but  expression  of  a 
man's  joy  in  his  work." 

Maytime  of  long  ago  came  over  the 
morning  hills  and  one  who  had  labored 
long  and  diligently  was  haunted  by  her 
beauty  and ,  because  of  this,  to-day  there 
hangs  in  the  mellowing  light  of  a  great 
art  salon  a  wondrous  painting  breathing 
the  fleeting  rapture  of  Spring-tide.  One 
other  worker  there  was  who  also  saw 
and  listened  and  now  down  the  years 
there  floats  the  melody  of  a  marvelous 
Spring  Song.  And  there  was  yet  an- 
other master  whose  joy  in  his  work  was 
equally  great  and  he  bound  the  happy 
meaning  of  Maytime  in  rhyme.  And 
you  and  I,  who  come  after,  taste  of 
their  treasured  sweetness. 


But  far  removed  from  these  happy 
workers,  who  excelled  in  the  domain  <rf 
literature,  music,  and  art,  I  like  to 
think  of  a  few  rare  souls  who  from  the 
ordinary  wayside  trifles  of  life,  the  every- 
day common  tasks  and  hardships,  have 
extracted  an  incomparable  sweetness. 
Rare  souls  indeed,  the  "survival  value" 
of  whose  example  lights  your  life  and 
mine  to  finer  issues. 

Work  is  the  spirit's  talisman.  And 
thrice  happy  is  he  who  like  the  bee 
journeys  in  the  direction  of  promise, 
toward  "some  glad  to-morrow  of  the 
mind."  His  song  is  the  "open  sesame" 
of  hope.  And  we  who  watch  marvel 
not  that  he  harvests  richly.  He  has 
attained  a  phase  of  spiritual  abandon 
that  enables  him  to  extract  the  gold  from 
the  heart  of  each  day's  privileges.  He 
has  learned  to  work,  and  sing,  not  only 
to  gamer, but  to  perpetuate  the  sweet- 
ness of  the  hour. 


The  Burned  Florentine  Meringue 


By  Ladd  Plumley 


MR.  UPJOHN  jammed  his  fore- 
finger against  the  press  but- 
ton to  the  elevator.  He  was 
frightfully  late  and  he  wondered  what 
had  happened.  Again  he  jabbed  the 
button,  and  as  he  did  so  he  heard  a 
tinkle  somewhere  skyward. 

Presently  a  gruff  voice  from  a  far 
region   above   came   down   the   shaft. 

"Car  out  of  order  —  stuck!" 

Upjohn  jumped  for  the  stairway.  He 
had  lost  five  precious  minutes.  The  six 
long  flights  were  leaped  upward  as  if 
he  were  a  chamois  frolicking  on  the 
Matterhom. 

**How  terribly  late  you  are !"  exclaimed 
Mrs.  Upjohn,  as  her  breathless  htisband 
yanked  open  the  door  of  the  front 
cubical  of  the  Uttle  apartment. 

"Trial  balance  out  —  subway  block  — 
elevator  busted!"  sputtered  the  tardy 
one,  grabbing  a  futile  kiss. 


"The  woman  never  came.  I  cooked 
the  dinner,"  blurted  out  the  flushed 
Mrs.  Upjohn.  "And  the  most  horrible 
thing,  Beverly!  My  lovely  Florentine 
Meringue  is  burned  to  a  cinder.  You'll 
have  to  dash  out  to  the  bakeries  — 
you'd  better  dress  first." 

"Drop  down,  you  mean  —  the  fire 
escape  would  be  the  quickest,"  said 
Upjohn,  diving  toward  his  room  for  a 
lightning  change  into   dinner  clothes. 

It  was  a  quarter  to  seven  as  he  shot 
past  the  clock  in  the  dining-room.  He 
could  see  that  he  must  be  the  swiftest 
in  the  evolutions  that  were  to  come. 

Two  dextrous  minutes,  and  he  was 
in  his  patent  leathers.  He  had  intended 
to  shave,  but  he  .would  have  to  shirk 
that.  He  went  through  the  performance 
as  a  soldier  grabs  together  his  accout- 
erment  in  the  face  of  a  night  attack. 
And   while  he  was  still  screwing  his 


THE  BURNED  FLORENTINE  MERINGUE 


6Q3 


mouth  before  the  mirror,  yanking  at  the 
loops  of  the  Satanic  tie,  the  bell  clattered 
the  warning  that  some  of  the  guests 
had  come.  His  wife's  voice  came,  as 
she  sped  from  her  pans  to  the  door,  — 
"Beverly,  do  hurry!" 

The  Upjohns  had  not  been  the 
Upjohns  long.  This  was  the  second 
year  of  the  combination.  Generally 
they  took  their  dinners  in  the  restaurant 
of  the  apartment '  house.  This  little 
dinner,  with  their  own  pretty  dishes 
and  new  silver,  was  in  return  fpr  dinner 
invitations  from  two  couples  who  lived 
in  a  far  less  modest  manner  than  did 
the  Upjohns.  Nattu'ally,  Mrs.  Upjohn 
wanted  everything  to  go  just  right.  It 
was  most  trjdng  that  the  woman  who 
helped  at  private  dinners  should  not 
have  come;  it  was  more  trying  that 
the  Florentine  Meringue  should  have 
been  burned. 

After  waiting  what  seemed  an  end- 
less time  for  his  wife  to  come  to  the 
kitchen  and  instruct  him  in  the  nature 
of  his  purchases,  Upjohn  raced  from  the 
door  and  to  the  elevator.  He  might 
have  known  it.  Blows  of  hammers 
toward  the  roof  told  that  the  repairs 
on  the  car  had  not  been  completed. 
If,  on  the  way  up,  Upjohn  had  been  a 
froUckmg  chamois,  on  his  way  down, 
he  dropped  almost  as  if  he  had  been  a 
mountain  climber  in  the  Alps  and  had 
lost  his  footing. 

As  he  rushed  into  the  street  he  was 
not  clear  as  to  what  he  would  sub- 
stitute for  the  meringue.  One  thing 
was  certain:  He  would  Hot  buy  choco- 
late eclairs.  Among  apartment  dinner- 
givers,  eclairs  are  the  resource  of  the 
shiftless.  What  he  decided  upon  was 
Napaleons.  He  himself  considered  Nap- 
oleons delectable.  There  was  some- 
thing distinguished  about  Napoleons. 
And  after  Napoleons  the  tale  of  the 
meringue  might  possibly  be  told  and 
bring  a  laugh. 

There  was  a  crowd  in  the  first  bakery, 
and,  until  his  turn  came,  Upjohn  fid- 
geted, 


* 'Sorry  r*  said  the  saleswoman. 
"We've  sold  the  last  Napoleon.  We 
have  —  "  and  she  named  many  things, 
letting  her  voice  linger  on  "chocolate 
eclairs." 

Upjohn  dashed  from  the  store.  There 
was  an  excellent  bakery  two  blocks 
further  down  the  avenue. 

Again  a  crowd;  Upjohn  wondered 
if  everybody  had  burned  their  meringues. 
His  turn  came  at  last. 

"Napoleons!"  said  the  girl.  "We 
never  bake  Napoleons  on  Friday.  Now 
we  have  chocolate  —  "  but  Upjohn  was 
diving  toward  the  door. 

On  the  nm  he  visited  three  other 
bakeries,  two  above  the  street  where 
he  lived  and  one  five  blocks  below  the 
first.  His  mind  refused  to  consider 
other  things;  it  held  firmly  to  Napoleons. 

But  in'  the  last  store  his  common- 
sense  mastered  him.  He  saw  that 
there  was  a  Napoleon  famine  in  his  part 
of  the  city.  Perhaps  he  had  better  take 
charlotte  russes.  But  when  he  asked 
the  woman,  he  was  amazed  to  discover 
that  charlotte  russes  had  been  sold  out. 
Away  he  ran. 

The  jeering  face  of  a  clock,  as  he 
leaped  past  the  window  of  a  jeweler's, 
pointed  a  warning  finger  at  the  half 
hour.  He  could  not  have  believed  that 
time  was  such  a  sprinter. 

He  had  been  a  sprinter  himself  in 
his  college  days.  He  tiuned  on  full 
steam  and  raced  back  ai^d  forth  along 
the  street.  But  to  his  horror  there 
were  no  charlotte  russes  to  be  had.  And 
on  the  return  to  the  bakery  of  his  first 
defeat  he  woke  up  to  the  fact  that 
he  must  get  something.  By  this  time 
the  saleswomen  probably  thought  that 
they  were  trying  to  satisfy  a  crazy 
customer. 

"Give  me  two  dozen  chocolate  eclairs," 
said  Upjohn  firmly. 

"Only  three  left,"  replied  the  woman. 
"You  see— " 

"For  heaven's  sake,  give  me  the 
three!" 

Now  there  had  con^e  a  sudden  and 


604 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING^CHOOL  MAGAZINE 


unprecedented  famine  in  eclairs.  In 
a  frantic  condition,  here  and  there, 
Upjohn  garnered  together  seven,  and 
in  aknost  as  many  paper  bags.  Beyond 
this  fateful  ninnber  nothing  could  avail. 
At  this  final  place  of  eflEort  he  joyfully 
took  another  bag  containing  a  dozen 
spice  cakes  —  and  if  there  was  anything 
that  he  loathed,  it  was  spice  cakes. 

Into  his  grilled  door,  in  a  street  of 
grilled  doors,  he  plimged,  paper  bags 
pressed  to  his  bosom.  He  kjiew  that 
he  was  destroying  the  eclairs,  but  he 
was  beyond  caring  for  that  or  anything. 

Of  course,  they  were  still  tinkering 
with  the  elevator.  And  if  it  was  a 
frolicking  chamois  that  had  first  moun- 
ted the  stairs,  the  second  time  it  was  a 
perspiring  lunatic  laboring  upward  with 
an  infinity  of  paper  bags. 

"My  goodness!"  exclaimed  his  wife, 
as  Upjohn  dashed  his  purchases  to  the 
top  of  the  stationary  tubs.  "I  don't 
know  what  they  think.  I  told  them 
that  you  had  been  called  out  for  a 
moment.  And  I  hope  that  you  didn't 
get  chocolate  eclairs." 

There  is  no  need  to  repeat  what 
Upjohn  said.    And  when  he  staggered 


into  the  front  room,  the  guests  probably 
thought  that  something  liqtiid  was  re- 
sponsible for  the  dazed  eye  and  purple 
face  of  their  host. 

As  has  been  said,  the  Upjohns  gen- 
erally take  their  dinner  in  the  restaurant, 
but  Mrs.  Upjohn  cooks  their  little 
breakfasts.  Every  morning  Upjohn 
goes  out  and  buys  warm  rolls. 

The  morning  after  he  had  managed  to 
preserve   a   degree   of   calmness,  when 
his  wife  brought  to  the  table  a  platter 
of  squashed  eclairs  and  shattered  brown 
abominations,  he  stepped  into  the  near- 
est  baker's   shop   for   the  rolls.     And 
there  on  the  counter  lay  a  full  tray  of 
an  infinity  of  charlotte  russes,  and  in 
a  rack  near  him  was  an   assortment 
of  dozens  of  pleasing  little  cakes.     As 
he  turned  toward  the  door,  a  baka''s 
boy  was  entering  with  a  giant  tray  that 
filled  up  almost  the  entire  space  between 
the    counter    and    the    wall.     Upjohn 
glanced    within,  there    lay    in    ranks 
enough  Napoleons  to  give  indigestion 
to  a  regiment. 

"Send  all  those  Napoleons  to  my 
place,"  ordered  Upjohn.  "I'm  going 
to  eat  two  after  my  dinner  forever." 


He  Gureth 


"The  good  God  always  builds  the  blind  bird's 
nest!" 
So  runs  a  Turkish  proverb,  sweet  and  wise. 
How  calmly  may  she  fold  her  wings  in  rest, 

Knowing  his  touch  upon  her  shadowed  eyes^ 
Thou,  who  has  known  his  love  so  strong  and 
grand. 
Rest,  too,  in  his  right  hand. 


"Behold,"  he  crieth,  "I  will  bring  the  blind 
By  ways  they  have  not  known,"  —  assurance 
sweet, — 
''Straighten  the  crooked  path,  make  life  more 
kind* 
Turn  darkness  into  light  before  their  feet." 
Is  thy  sight  darkened,  friend?    Thy  God  can  sec. 
Let  that  suffice  for  thee. 


Unsheltered  birds  his  providence  shall  shield. 

The  helpless  soul  shall  lean  upon  his  strength. 

Our  need,  grown  great,  to  greater  love  shall  yield. 

And  help,  though  long  delayed,  shall  come  at 

length. 

Wait  for  him,  doubting  not.    He  knoweth  best 

Who  builds  the  blind  bird's  nest. 

Florence  Foster  in  The  Christian  Rezister, 


Meeting  the  Problem  of  Living 


By  Eva  J.  DeMarsh 


IN  this  day,  when  we  hear  so  much 
about  the  high  cost  of  living  and 
view  with  wonder  and  dread  our 
depleted  pocketbooks,  what  can  we 
who  are  possessed  of  but  moderate 
means  do,  not  only  to  make  ends  meet, 
but,  as  well  ,to  provide  for  the  inevitable 
rainy  day? 

Well,  for  one  thing,  we  can  live 
simpler  lives.  Two  of  the  happiest, 
most  intelligent  people  the  world  has 
ever  known  lived  in  a  garden  and  wore 
a  nondescript  dress  of  fig  leaves.  Of 
coiirse ,  we  have  journeyed  a  long  dis- 
tance from  that  Garden,  in  more  ways 
than  one,  yet  has  it  its  lesson  for  us. 
Not  until  Adam  and  Eve  grew  in  knowl- 
edge and  their  wants  multiplied  even 
as  their  desires,  did  their  troubles  begin. 
How  about  us?  Do  we  really  need  all 
the  things  we  think  we  do?  Of  course, 
we  know  much  of  which  our  ancestors 
never  heard,  a  considerable  ntmiber  of 
us  think  we  must  have  an  extensive  and 
expensive  wardrobe,  live  in  two  or  more 
houses,  be  waited  upon  by  servants,  and 
eat  a  great  many  kinds  of  foods,  served 
in  as  many  courses,  which  is  all  very 
well  in  its  way,  but  how  about  those 
who  can  only  follow  in  varying  stages 
of  weak  imitation.  Does  not  common- 
sense  demand  that  they  be  themselves, 
live  their  own  lives,  in  their  own  way, 
worship  God  from  their  hearts,  without 
so  much  form  and  ceremony,  •  govern 
themselves,  their  families,  their  church, 
their  State,  their  nation,  along  simple, 
straightforward  lines.  Life  has  many 
phases,  and  one  phase  may  be  as  good 
as  another. 

Few  of  us  in  this  day  and  age  know 
what  simplicity  means.  Even  our  babes 
have  a  miiltitude  of  toys,  many  of  them 
intricate  in  design  and  expensive  in 
price.    Are  they  any  happier  than  you 


were  over  your  rag  doll  or  first  pocket- 
knife?  Not  long  since  I  saw  in  the 
ward  of  one  of  our  city  hospitals  a 
beautiful  little  boy  only  four  years  old, 
imder  treatment  for  double  rupture  and 
ringworm.  The  children's  ward  being 
full,  he  was  placed  iji  the  women's  ward. 
During  all  the  days  of  his  treatment  and 
convalescence  twice  only  did  he  com- 
plain, and  that  was  when  he  was  operated 
on  and  when  the  stitches  were  removed. 
And  what  do  you  suppose  were  his 
sources  of  amusement?  Lying  flat  on 
his  back,  to  hfetndle  over  and  over  some 
coins  in  a  box,  open  and  shut  a  fan, 
look  at  the  pictures  on  it,  eat  his  meals, 
and, now  and  then,  talk  a  little  with  a 
nurse  or  a  patient.  Few  grownups, 
methinks,  could  have  been  as  sweet 
and  brave  afe  he.  Suppose  little  Willie 
had  been  the  pampered  dajrling  of  a 
family  who  scorned  simplicity  and  gave 
him  everything  he  wanted,  do  you 
suppose  he  would  have  been  the  same 
quiet,  cheery  little  sotil  he  was  ?  Hardly, 
methinks. 

Complexity  and  artificiality  make  of 
life  a  bugbear,  instead  of  a  blessing. 
They  promote  neither  health,  longevity 
nor  happiness,and,to  meet  their  demands, 
men  squander  time,  money  and  strength 
that  had  much  better  be  bestowed 
elsewhere.  God  nmde  the  world  full 
of  sweet,  simple  things;  to  man  He  gave 
one  life,  one  body,  one  soul,  one  brain, 
one  pair,  each,  of  the  vital  organs,  and 
one ,  each ,  of  the  senses  which  contribut- 
to  his  happiness  andweU-being,  and,  yet, 
we  crowd  heart  and  life,  brain  and  stom- 
ach, to  the  limit,  in  the  mad  effort  to 
have  as  much,  or  more,  than  our  fellows, 
and  then  we  say  it  costs.  Why,  so  it 
does.  A  few  serviceable,  attractive 
pieces  of  clothing  for  each  season,  a 
(Continued  on  page  628) 


605 


606 


Tttfe  6OSTOK  COOfelKG-SCtlOOt  MAGA^lKfi 


THE 

BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE 

OP 
Cttliavy  Science  and  Domestic  Economics 

Subscription  $1.00  per  Year  Single  Copies,  10c 
Foreign  Postage:  To  Canada,  20c  per  Year 
To  OTHER  Foreign  Countries,  40c  per  Year 

TO  SUBSCRIBERS 

The  date  fttamped  on  the  wnpper  is  the  date 
on  which  your  subscription  expires;  it  is,  also,  an 
acknowledgment  that  a  subscription,  or  a  renewal 
of  the  same,  has  been  received. 

Please  renew  on  receipt  of  the  colored  blank 
enclosed  for  this  purpose. 

In  sending  notice  to  renew  a  subscription  or 
change  of  address,  pletse  give  the  oU  address 
as  well  as  the  nno. 

In  referring  to  an  original  entry,  we  must  know 
the  name  u  it  was  formerly  given,  together  with 
the  Post-office,  County,  State,  Post-office  Box, 
or  Street  Number. 

StaUnuni  ^0wntrthip  mnd  maMmg§m»mi  m»  rtqmred  hy 
tkt  Act  ^Ctmgr§M  ^/Amguti  14,  1912, 

Editor:  Janet  M.  Hill. 
Business  Managers:  R.  B.  Hill,  B.  M.  Hill. 

Owners : 

B.  M.  Hill,  Janet  M.  Hill,  R.  B.  Hill. 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

published  ten  times  a  year  by 

The  Boston  Cooking- School  Magazine  Co., 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

BVTIHKD  AT  BoffTOir  PoCT-OFnCK  AM  SlOOWD-CLAM  If  ATTIB 


r% 


MARCH 

Snow-laden  branches  of  the  pine 
Drip  softly  in  the  mild  sunshine; 
And  gentler  airs  now  bring 
A  faint  foretaste  of  Spring. 

On  the  horizon,  leagues  away. 
The  forest  trees  are  etched  in  gray. 
And  vauge  and  misty  lie 
Against  the  melting  sky. 

Below  protecting  banks  of  snow 
The  little  streamlets  swiftlier  flow. 
The  frozen  womb  of  earth 
Foresees  the  pangs  of  birth, 

And  in  a  hollow  cup  of  mould, 
Green-rimmed  and  sheltered  from  the  cold. 
Bom  or  these  softer  days, 
A  single  windflower  sways. 

Hblbn  CoiULB  Crbw. 


AN  ANNOUNCEMENT 

OUR  magazine  year  begins  with  June. 
With  the  coming  issue  of  that 
month  we  propose  to  introduce  a  change 
in  the  name  of  the  magazine.  The 
Boston  Cooking  School,  in  connection 
with  which  we  engaged  in  starting  this 
publication,  was  merged  into  a  depart- 
ment of  Simmons  College  som6  years 
ago,  leaving  this  publication  entirely 
independent.  Now  we  have  concluded  it 
will  be  advantageous  in  every  respect  to 
carry  a  more  comprehensive  name. 
The  name  long  considered  and  finally 
decided  on  is  AMERICAN  COOKERY. 
This  will  appear  on  our  cover  page  as 
follows:  "AMERICAN  COOKERY," 
formerly  THE  BOSTON  COOKING 
SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  of  Culinary  Sci- 
ence and  Domestic  Economics." 

We  wish  to  state  plainly,  here  and 
now,  that  no  other  changes,  save  in 
the  way  of  natural  growth  and  inprove- 
ment,  are  in  contemplation.  The  man- 
agement, editorship,  as  well  as  the 
character  of  the  magazine  all  are  to 
remain  the  same  as  in  the  past,  and, 
though  the  cost  of  most  things,  in  the 
last  decadCj  has  nearly  doubled,  our 
subscription  price  will  not  be  changed. 
That  we  are  now  giving  more  in  actual 
value  for  jnoney  received  than  any 
publication  with  which  we  are  acquain- 
ted is  generally  conceded.  In  a  word, 
then,  the  magazine  will  be  identically 
the  same,  a  special  periodical  of  the 
highest  class,  only  carrying,  we  believe, 
a  broader  title. 

We  wish  to  repeat  and  let  it  be 
clearly  understood  that,  in  reaching  our 
conclusion  and  taking  this  step,  our 
single  object  is  to  be  regarded  as  an 
endeavor  to  increase  the  circulation  and 
enlarge  the  scope  and  usefulness  of  a 
culinary  publication  that  has  been  re- 
ceived far  and  wide  with  distinct  favor. 

In  our  April  and  May  ntunbers  we 
will  print  on  this  page  a  facsimile  o 
the  new  title  just  as  it  will  appear  at 
the  head  of  our  first  cover  page. 


EDITORIALS 


607 


CONDITIONS  OF  HEALTH 

A  CHAPTER  in  Ralph  Waldo  Trine's 
latest  work,  **The  New  Alinement 
of  Life,"  shows  well  how  far  we  are  get- 
ting away  from  the  old  idea  of  the  nec- 
essity of  subduing  the  body  in  order  to 
keep  paramount  the  things  that  per- 
tain to  the  spirit.  "Health,"  he  says, 
"is  the  natural  and  the  normal  —  tm- 
questionably  it  is  the  God-intended;  it 
should  not,  therefore,  be  so  hard  to 
preserve  it,"  **Its  opposite,  physi- 
cal debility,  sickness,  suffering,  comes 
through  the  violation,  either  on  one's 
own  part  or  on  the  part  of  others,  of 
the  laws  of  ovbr  being,  or  of  the  laws  of 
the  Universe  about  us.  This  violation 
may  be  made  intentionally  or  uninten- 
tionally, knowingly  or  inadvertently  — 
the  results  are  primarily  the  same. 
For  the  body  is  of  material  structure, 
and  gets  its  food,  its  sustenance,  its  con- 
tinued life,  from  material  agencies,  such 
as  food,  air,  water.  It  demands  the 
right  kinds  and  the  right  proportions 
of  these  material  reqturements,  the 
same  as  it  demands  right  directing  and 
regulating  through  the  channel  of  the 
mind. 

To  keep  the  body  clean  is  one  of  the 
essentials,  from  the  physical  side — def- 
initely and  habitually,  rather  than  spas- 
modically, dean;  as,  or  even  more, 
essential  perhaps  is  it,  that  our  stirround- 
ings  be  kept  clean  and  free  from  all 
types  of  refuse.  To  give  the  body  the 
food  it  requires  is  a  prime  requisite  — 
the  nourishing  and  the  sustaining,  rather 
than  the  fancy  kinds,  not  too  much  of 
it,  and  the  less  of  flesh-foods  the  better. 

It  is  a  well-established  fact  that  the* 
majority  of  people  eat  too  muchi  They 
take  more  food,  especially  with  \mder- 
exerdse,  than  the  body  can  assimilate, 
and  the  result  is  superflous  fatty  deposits. 
This  is  especially  true  around  middle 
age,  when  the  body  is  no  longer  grow- 
ingj  and  hence  does  not  require  the 
amount  of  food  it  required  when  the 
process  of  growth  as  well  as  of  waste 


was  going  on.  The  result  is  the  taking 
on  of  superfluous  flesh,  the  tendency 
to  exercise  still  less,  degeneration  of  the 
heart  muscles,  hence  impaired  breathing, 
which  deprives  the  body  of  one  of  its 
greatest  soiu-ces  of  strength  and  energy. 
An  abundance  of  pure  air,  full,  deep 
breathing,  and  especially  out-of-door 
air,  is  one  of  the  first  essentials  of  sound 
health  and  of  unimpaired  vitality.  If 
this  can  be  combined  with  adequate 
daily  exercise  in  the  open,  whether  it 
take  the  form  of  work  or  of  play,  and 
if  the  exercise  is  as  simple  even  as  that 
of  walking,  so  that  it  is  done  regularly 
and  with  the  right  spirit  and  purpose 
back  of  it  —  an  alert  and  purposeful 
mind  —  so  much  the  better. 


Sleep  is  nature's  great  restorer  —  one 
of  the  great  rebuilders  of  both  mind  and 
body.  When  we  rob  them  of  the  re- 
required  amount,  we  are  thereby  con- 
tracting bills  that  will  present  them- 
selves for  settlement  sooner  or  later,  but 
without  fail.  It  may  seem  for  a  while 
that  no  accotmt  is  being  kept  —  but, 
believe  me,  it  is. 

"To  thus  wisely  order  the  material 
side  of  life,  realizing  the  value  of  moder- 
ation, and  the  wisdom  always,  and  in 
all  things,  of  the  'middle  ground,'  will 
lead  to  that  sunny,  peaceful,  healthy, 
and  serene  old  age  that  should  be  the 
natural  outcome  of  every  life. 


We  will  not,  then,  think  ill  health, 
disease,  weakness,  or  loss;  we  will  not 
talk  them  —  we  will  not  expect  them. 
We  will  think  health,  we  will  talk 
health  —  but  not  too  much  —  we  will 
expect  it.  The  subconscious  mind  is 
powerful  in  its  workings.  It  follows 
suggestion.  If  we  continually  suggest 
to  It  health  and  strength,  it  will 
work  for  us  along  these  same 
lines.  No  man  or  woman  is  a  failure 
in  health,  the  same  as  in  anything  in 
life,  who  keeps  cheerful  and  buoyant 
and  expectant.  They  alone  fail  who 
give  up  and  lie  down." 


608 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


USE  YOUR  MAGAZINE 

REMEMBER  this  is  your  magazine. 
Our  desire  is  to  make  it  better,  of 
more  use  to  you.  Freely  write  us  sugges- 
tions regarding  what  you  would  like  to 
see  in  its  pages,  whether  it  be  more  reci- 
pes, more  menus,  or  more  lessons  for 
beginners,  etc.  We  want  ideas  and  we 
want  to  know  what  your  needs  are. 

If  you  see  anything  new  or  inviting, 
why  not  send  it  to  us?  Possibly,  too, 
some  of  you  coiild  write  for  publication 
an  article  on  some  phase  of  home  life 
with  which  you  are  especially  familiar. 
We  are  pleased  to  read  articles  of  this 
kind.  The  more  material  we  have  to 
choose  from,  the  better  the  contents  of 
the  magazine  will  be. 

We  have  just  gotten  out  a  new  pre- 
mium list;  aJso,  we  are  glad  to  sell  by 
mail  the  articles  included  in  this  list. 
If  you  are  interested,  send  for  it.  In 
each  article  we  offer  the  best  there  is  in 
the  market.  We  are  prepared  to  cor- 
respond about  these  things  as  well  as 
the  books  we  carry  on  our  page  of 
Books  on  Domestic  Economics.  Large 
mails  are  very  acceptable  at  this  office. 

DR.  GRENFELL  has  recently  stated 
a  truth  which  is  beginning  to  be 
accepted  by  all  intelligent  people.  He 
says,  in  substance,  that  the  ability  to  do 
something  worth  while  for  the  benefit 
of  society  is  a  more  valuable  gift  than 
anything  which  money  can  buy.  It 
is  sometimes  asserted  that  men  like 
Rockefeller,  Carnegie,  et  a/.,  take  up 
works  of  benevolence  in  order  to  turn 
aside  the  public  disapprobation  of  the 
methods  by  which  their  vast  forttmes 
were  created.  Most  people  know  that 
no  one  man  has  the  right  to  acctmiulate 
and  administer  such  fortunes  as  they 
hold  under  their  control;  but  as  they 
are  men  of  intelligence,  it  is  only  fair 
to  suppose  that,  after  they  have  made 
their  many  millions,  they  become  aware 
of  the  fact  that  there  are  opportunities 


for    creative    work    for    the    common 
good  which  are  much  more  hanorable 
and  deserving  of  fame  and  hoaor  than 
any  fortune  that  can  be  made  by  the 
ordinary  methods.    They  missed  their 
opportunities   in   their   youth,    but   in 
their  old  age  they  recognized  the  greater 
glory  of  tmselfish  work  for  the  common 
good    in    the    banishment    of    disease 
and  the  spread  of  knowledge.     Their 
later  work  is  wholly  good.     Let  them 
have  the  credit  of  it,  while  we  deny 
that  they  have  any  right  to  control 
such  vast  resources.  C.  R. 

ON  these  editorial  pages  we  are  wont 
to  give  items  culled  from  various 
sources.    We  intend  that  these  items  be 
timely,  interesting  and  suggestive,  and 
always  such  as  we  can  approve  and  com- 
mend.   How  people  are  living  and  what 
they  are  thinking  about  the  present  con- 
ditions of  life  can  never  be  uninteresting. 
To  give  expression  to  the  thought  of  the 
day  on  a  single  subject  is  no  easy  mat- 
ter.    In  a  wilderness  of  ideas,  few  there 
are  that  have  not  been  expressed  far 
better  than  we  could  do  ourselves. 

AMONG  our  notices  of  new  books 
this  month  may  be  found  several 
books  of  special  interest  and  value.  The 
Art  of  Living  Long,  by  Comaro  is  a  curi- 
osity. It  gives  the  experience  of  a  re- 
markable character,  who  lived  about 
three  htmdred  years  ago  and  rotmded 
out  a  century  and  more  of  active  life  and 
healthy  enjo)rment.  The  perusal  of  this 
book  makes  us  feel  poor.  How  much 
have  we  gained  in  knowledge  of  living  in 
the  course  of  centuries?  Comaro's  secret 
of  living  long  was  "temperance  in  both 
eating  and  drinking' ' .  We  heartily  com- 
mend his  nile  of  life.  He  acted  in 
accordance  with  the  proverb,  "Not  to 
satiate  one's  self  with  food  is  the  science 
of  health".  As  a  people  we  should  give 
heed  at  once  to  the  temperate  life  and 
begin  to  practice  the  only  sure  course 
that  leads  to  health  and  longevity. 


OLD    NORWEGIAN   TEA-SERVICE 

Seasonable  Recipes 

By  Janet  M.  Hill 


IN  all  recipes  where  flour  is  utcd,  imleis  otherwise  stated,  the  flour  is  measured  after 
sifting  once.  Where  flour  ig  measured  by  cllp^  the  cup  is  filled  with  a  spoon,  and  » 
level  cupful  is  meant  A  tablespoonful  or  teaspoonful  of  any  designated  material  is  a 
LEVEL  spoonful. 

one  hour.  Strain  off  the  broth;  let 
cool;  then  add  the  thin  yellow  rind 
of  a  lemon,  the  whites  of  three  eggs, 
slightly  beaten,  the  crushed  shells  of 
the  eggs  and  such  additional  season- 
ing as  is  required.  Stir  over  the  fire 
constantly  until  the  soup  boils;  let 
boil,  without  stirring,  three  minutes^ 
draw  to  a  cooler  place  and  let  settle; 
skim  and  strain  through  a  sieve  set 
over  a  colander  holding  a  napkin 
wrung  out  of  boiling  water.  Serve 
with  figures,  cut  from  royal  custard, 
in  each  plate.  For  a  higher  flavored 
soup,  saut§  the  vegetables  in  clari- 
fied butter  before  setting  to  cook. 


Vegetable  Consomme  a  la  Royal 

WASH  two  cups  of  lentils,  drain, 
add  two  quarts  of  cold  water 
and  let  stand  overnight.  In 
the  morning  set  the  lentils  over  the  fire 
in  this  same  water,  and  let  gradually 
heat  to  the  boiling  point;  sldm,  then 
let  simmer  very  gently,  skimming  oc- 
casionally, half  an  hour;  add  three- 
fourths  a  cup,  each,  of  shreds  of  onion, 
and  carrots,  two  cups  of  sliced  tomatoes, 
five  branches  of  parsley,  one-third  a 
cup  of  celery  leaves  (fresh  or  dried) 
a  bit  of  mace  (very  small)  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  thyme  and  three  cloves, 
tied  in  a  bit  of  cheese  cloth,  a  chili 
pepper  with  seeds  removed,  and  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  Heat  to  the  boil- 
ing point,  then  let  simmer  very  gently 


Royal  Custard 

Beat  one  whole  egg  and  three  yolks; 

,dd  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  (scant)  of 


610 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL-MAGAZINE 


salt,  a  few  grains  of  paprika,  and  half 
a  cup  of  rich  milk  or  thin  cream.  Mix 
and  let  cook  in  a  buttered  mold.  When 
cold,  cut  in  slices  and  stamp  from 
these  such  shapes  as  desired, 

■    Cream  of  Spinach  Soup 

Scald  one  quart  of  milk  with  an  onion 
in  which  three  cloves  have  been  pressed. 
Cream  three  table  spoonfuls  of  butter; 
into  it  beat  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  dilute  with 
a  little  of  the  scalded  milk,  mix,  and 
return  to  the  milk  over  the  fire;  stir 
until  smooth  and  slightly  thickened, 
then  cover  and  let  cook  twenty  minutes; 
chop,  fine,  half  to  three-fourths  a  cup 
of  cooked  spinach,  then,  with  a  pestle, 
press  it  through  a  fine  purfe  sieve; 
dilute  with  a  little  of  the  hot  soup, 
mix  and  return  to  the  rest  of  the  soup. 
Finish  with  a  cup  of  hot  cream;  strain 


ing  point,  then  set  into  the  o\'en  tu 
cook  very  gently  about  six  minutes. 
Lift  the  fish  to  a  hot  ser\'ing  dish 
and  let  the  liquid  reduce  by  slow 
cooking.  Melt  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter;  in  it  cook  one-fourth  a  pound 
of  fresh  mushroom  caps  peeled  and 
broken  into  pieces;  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls of  floiu"  and  stir  until  ab- 
sorbed, then  add  half  a  cup  of  rich 
brown  stock,  one-foiu^h  a  cup  of  tomato 
pur^e  and  the  liquid  in  the  pan,  of 
which  there  should  be  a  generous  cup; 
stir  until  boiling  and  pour  over  tbe 
smelts. 

Broiled  Lamb  Chops,  with  Chest- 
nut Croquettes 
Have  the  chops  cut  from  the  loin 
evenly,  that  each  may  stand  upright 
on  the  bone;  remove  superfluous  fat, 
coil  the  flank  end  against  the  bit  of 
tenderloin    and    skewer    it    in     place: 


FRESH   MUSHROOMS.    PLENTIFUL  AND    CHEAP   THIS   SEASON 


through  a  fine  sieve,  if  needed.  Serve 
at  the  same  time  halves  of  rolls,  toasted, 
buttered,  sprinkled  with  grated  cheese 
and  returned  to  the  oven  to  melt 
the  cheese. 

Smelts,  Italian  Style 

Wipe  the  carefully  cleaned  fish  with 
a  damp  cloth;  set,  side  by  side,  in  a 
buttered  baking  pan,  and  pour  in 
half  a  cup  or  more  of  Sauteme  or 
other  white  wine,  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon  and  enough  hot  water  just 
to  cover  the  fish.     Heat   to  the  boil- 


cook  the  chops  in  the  oven,  turning 
once,  or  broil  directly  over  coals,  turn- 
ing often.  Set  them  in  the  center 
of  a  hot  chop-dish,  each  resting  on  the 
bit  of  back  bone  attached  to  it,  and 
dispose  hot  croquettes  around  them. 
Serve  a  green  salad  dressed  with  French 
dressing  on  separate  plates. 

Chestnut  Croquettes 

Shell    and   blanch   about    a    pint  of 

large  chestnuts;  let  cook  in  well-flavored 

broth  until   tender,  then  let  cool  and 

cut  in  slices.     Melt  one-fourth  a  cup 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


i'S.    WITH   CHESTNUT    CROQUETTES 


of  butter;  add  one-third  a  cup  of  flour, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash 
of  pepper,  and  stir  and  cook  until 
the  flour  is  absorbed;  add  one  cup 
of  rich,  highly-seasoned  broth  and  half 
a  cup  of  cream  and  stir  until  boil- 
ing; then  add  about  one  cup  and  a 
half  of  the  sliced  chestnuts;  mix  and 
turn  on  to  a  buttered  plate.  When 
cold  shape  into  croquettes,  egg -and - 
bread  crumb  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Chicken  Fillets,  with  Ham  and 
Mushrooms 

Remove  the  breasts  from  chickens. 
Young  chickens  or  chickens  up  to  a 
year  old  may  be  used  for  this  dish. 
Allow  half  a  chicken  breast  for  each 
service.  Trim  each  half  neatly  on 
the  edge,  set  "the  fillets,  side  by  side, 
in  a  buttered  agate  baking  dish,  pour 
in   a   little   hot   cream,    cover   with    a 


buttered  paper  and  let  cook  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  until  tender.  The  length 
of  time  will  depend  on  the  age  of  the 
chickens,  and  will  vary  from  fifteen 
minutes  to  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes. 
Baste  each  ten  minutes  with  the  cream 
or  a  little  melted  butter.  Broil  a  thin 
pear-shaped  piece  of  ham  for  each 
fillet;  let  the  ham  be  half  an  inch 
larger  on  all  sides  than  the  fillet  of 
chicken.  Peel  a  mushroom  cap  for 
each  service,  drop  a  bit  of  butter 
in  each  and  let  cook  in  the  oven,  with 
the  chicken,  or  in  a  separate  dish, 
about  ten  minutes.  Have  ready  a 
sUce  of  hot,  buttered  toast  for  each 
service;  set  the  ham  on  the  toast, 
the  chicken  on  the  ham  and  a  mush- 
room above  the  chicken;  season  the 
cream  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour 
around  the  toast.  This  dish  might  be 
served  as  an  entrfe. 


CHICKEN  FILLETS.  WITH  HAM   AND  MUSHBOOMS 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Potato  Patties,  with  Peas 

Select  potatoes  of  uniform  shape 
and  size;  pare,  cut  off  a  slice,  then 
hollow  to  make  cups  or  thin  shells. 
Let  stand  in  cold  water  till  about 
ready  to  serve,  then  wipe  dry  and 
fry  in  deep  fat.  The  shells  should 
cook  until  tender,  from  six  to  eight 
minutes.  Drain  on  tissue  paper  at 
the  oven  door;  sprinkle  the  inside 
with  a  little  salt  and  use  as  receptacles 
for  cooked  peas,  seasoned  with  salt, 
sugar,  black  pepper  and  butter. 
Creamed  fish,  chicken,  or  almost  any 
variety  of  vegetable  may  be  served 
in  these  patties;  the  patties  are  to  be 
eaten  with  the  contents. 


cooked  potatoes  into  sUces  a  scant 
quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  Make 
a  sauce  of  one-fourth  a  cup,  each,  of 
butter  and  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper 
and  two  cups  of  milk.  In  a  buttered 
baking  dish  dispose  the  eggs  and  pota- 
toes in  layers,  covering  each  with  sauoe. 
Have  the  last  layer  of  sauce.  Mix  half 
a  cup  of  cracker  crumbs  with  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  and 
spread  above  the  last  layer  of  sauoe. 
Set  into  the  oven  to  make  very  hot  and 
brown  the  crumbs. 

Baked  Potatoes,  Yellowstone  Style 

Select  smooth,  large  potatoes,  scrub 

well  and  bake  till  done;  make  two  cuts 


POTATO    PATTIES.  WITH    PEAS 


Creamed  Pimientos  and  Cheese 

Melt  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter;  in 
it  cook  one-fourth  a  cup  of  flour,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one -fourth 
a  teaspoonful  of  paprika;  add  two 
cups  of  rich  milk  and  stir  until  boiling; 
add  one  cup  of  squares  cut  from  canned 
pimientos  and  one  cup  and  three- 
fourths  of  mild,  soft  cheese,  cut  in  half- 
inch  cubes;  set  over  boiling  water  and 
with  a  spoon  and  fork  lift  the  cheese, 
to  mix  it  evenly  through  the  sauce. 
Serve  very  hot,  but  before  the  cheese 
melts,    on    toast    or    hot  crackers. 

Oak  Hill  Potatoes 
Cut  five  hard-cooked  eggs  and  five 


across  the  top  of  the  potatoes,  at  right 
angles  one  to  the  other,  take  up  with  a 
clean,  heavy  towel  and  crush  the  potato 
in  the  hand,  to  loosen  the  pulp  and  lift 
it  up  a  little.  Set  the  potato  on  a  hot 
napkin,  folded  to  proper  size  and  laid 
on  a  hot  plate.  Dispose  a  generous 
piece  of  butter  above  the  opening  in  the 
potato  and  fleck  generously  with  pap- 
rika.    Serve  at  once. 

Spinach,  Italian  Style 
Cook  half  a  peck  of  carefully  washed 
spinach  in  the  usual  manner,  drain 
and  chop  fine.  Melt  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter;  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour  and  half  a  teaspoonful,  or 
less,  of    salt    and    stir    until    blended; 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


SPINACH.  ITALIAN   STYLE 


add  half  a  cup  of  rich  milk  or  thin  cream 
and  stir  until  boiling;  add  the  spinach 
and  from  half  to  a  full  cup  of  grated 
cheese  and  stir  until  the  cheese  is 
melted  and  the  whole  very  hot.  Turn 
on  to  a  hot  dish;  garnish  with  slices 
of  hard-cooked  eggs  and  lemon. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake 

Beat  half  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream; 
gradually  beat  in  one  cup  of  sugar, 
then  add  one  egg  beaten  light,  one 
cup,  each,  raisins  and  currants,  one 
cup  and  three-fourths  of  sifted  flour, 
sifted  again  with  one  level  teaspoon- 
ful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinna- 
mon and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 
and  one  cup  of  hot  strained  apple 
sauce  (thick  purte).    Beat  thoroughly. 


Turn  into  a  tube-pan  lined  with  but- 
tered paper.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
nearly  one  hour  and  a  half. 

Baked  Apple  Tarts 
Make  flaky  pastry  with  three  cups 
of  pastry  flour,  half  a  teaspoonful, 
each,  of  salt  and  baking  powder,  three- 
fourths  a  cup  of  shortening  and  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  creamed  butter;  fold 
imd  roll  in  the  butter  at  the  last.  Core 
and  pare  six  or  eight  tart  apples, 
then  cook  until  tender,  in  a  cup,  each, 
of  sugar  and  water,  boiled  to  a  syrup. 
Turn  the  apples  often  to  keep  them 
whole.  When  done  set  them  aside 
to  become  cold.  Roll  the  pastry  into 
a  thin  sheet,  cut  it  into  rounds  of 
a    size    to    cover    nearly    the    apples; 


MAKING.  BAKED  APPLE  TARTS 


614 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


cut  out  also  as  many  small  rounds  — 
two  inches  in  diameter  —  as  apples. 
Set  a  chilled  apple  on  one  of  the  large 
rounds;  cut  out  three  or  four  "gores" 
or  triangles  of  paste,  brush  one  side 
of  each  with  cold  water,  then  bring 
the  paste  up  to  enclose  the  apple, 
pressing  the  dry  paste  on  the  paste 
wet  with  water,  to  make  a  smooth 
covering  for  the  lower  three-fourths 
of  the  apple.  Brush  the  top  of  the 
paste  with  cold  water;  cut  two  or 
three  slits  in  one  of  the  small  rounds 
of  paste  and  press  this  over  the  top 
of  the  apple,  down  upon  the  paste. 
Brush  the  paste  with  cold  water  and 
dredge  with  granulated  sugar.  Bake 
about  half  an  hour.  Serve  hot  with 
hard  sauce,  flecked  with  cinnamon,  and 
the  syrup  in  which  the  apples  were 
cooked. 


Strawberry  Sherbet,  with  Preserved 
Berries 

Boil  one  quart  of  water  and  one  pint 
of  sugar  twenty  minutes;  let  cool,  add 
one  cup  and  a  half  of  lemon  juice  and 
one  cup  of  strawberrj'  preserves  pressed 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  freeze  as  usual. 
When  frozen  tint  with  red  color-paste; 
add  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  kirsch- 
wasser  and  mix  thoroughly. 

Pears  Cardinal 
Cook  canned  pears  about  five  minutes 
in  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  flavored 
with  vanilla.  When  cold  set  on  oblong 
pieces  of  sponge  cake  and  coat  with 
raspberry  sauce,  to  which  a  little  of  the 
reduced  pear  syrup  has  been  added. 
Sprinkle  with  shredded -and -blanched 
almonds. 


BAKED  APPLE  TARTS,  WITH  HARD  SAUCE  AND  APPLE  SYBUP 

Apple,    Date-  and -Celery    Salad       Parsnips  Fried  in  Fritter  Batter 


To  serve  four,  pare  one  large,  choice 
apple,  quarter,  core  and  cut  it  into  small 
pieces  and  squeeze  over  these  the  juice 
of  half  a  lemon.  Cut  five  choice  stalks 
of  celery  in  small  pieces.  Pour  boiling 
water  over  half  a  pound  of  dates,  stir 
the  water  through  them,  skim  to  an  agate 
plate  and  let  dry  in  the  oven.  When 
cold  cut  each  into  four  or  five  lengthwise 
pieces.  Mix  together  the  apple,  celery, 
and  dates,  then  add  a  generous  half  cup 
of  mayonnaise  dressing  and  mix  again. 
Serve  at  once. 


Scrape  or  pare  several  parsnips  and 
cut  into  pieces  about  two  and  a  half 
inches  in  length;  cut  these  into  length- 
wise halves  or.  quarters,  according  to 
size;  let  codk  in  boiling  water,  without 
salt,  until  tender;  drain  and  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper;  add  a  generous  piece 
of  butter  and  shake  the  pan  to  coat 
all  the  pieces  with  butter;  add  one 
or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice 
and  shake  again.  Let  stand  half  an 
hour.  When  ready  to  serve  dip  each 
piece  in  fritter  batter,  or  in  beaten  egg 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


and  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep 
fat. 

Fritter  Batter 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs;  add  one- 
fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a.  tea- 
spoonful  of  olive  oil  or  melted  butter 
and  three-fourths  a  cup  of  milk;  grad- 
ually stir  this  into  one  cup  of  sifted 
flour,  let  stand  an  hour  or  more,  and 
when  ready  to  use  beat  in  the  white 
of  one  egg,  beaten  dry. 

Prune  Pie 
Line  a  pie  plate  with  plain  pastry. 
Pill  the  plate  with  three-fourths  a 
pound  of  prunes,  cooked  tender,  stoned 
and  cut  in  halves,  a  cup  of  sugar,  juice 
of  half  a  lemon,  the  prime  juice,  two 
table  spoonfuls  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
in  little  bits,  and  if  desired  one  or 
two  tables poonfuls  of  orange  or  grape- 
fruit marmalade;  brush  the  edge  of  the 
paste  with  cold  water  and  set  around 
of  flaky  paste  (a  pattern  marked  in  the 
center)  above.  Press  the  edges  together. 
Bake  about  thirty  minutes. 

Peach  Tarts,  Flower  Fashion 
Line  small  (individual)  tins  with 
puff  or  flaky  pastry;  put  about  a  table- 
spoonful  of  dry  rice  into  ejich  and 
let  bake  until  done;  turn  the  paste 
from  the  tins  and  the  rice  from  the 
paste.  Brush  the  edge  of  each  tart 
with  white  of  egg,  then  roll  it  in  chopped 
pistachio    nuts.     Set    about    a    table- 


PRUNE  PIE 

Spoonful  of  pastry  cream  in  the  bot- 
tom of  each  tart,  then  dispose  four 
or  five  small  halves  of  preserved  or 
bran  died  peaches  in  the  cream,  as 
a  lining  to  the  sides  of  the  pastry, 
one  overlapping  another,  entirely  around 
the  paste.  Cut  green  gage  (preserved) 
plums  in  quarters  down  nearly  to 
the  stem  end;  remove  the  stone,  and 
fold  the  ends  of  the  sections  in  towards 
the  center;  set  one  of  these  inside 
the  peaches  in  each  tart;  set  a  cherry 
in  the  center  of  the  plum.  Serve 
on  the  day  of  making. 

Pastry  Cream 

Scald  one  cup  of  milk;  stir  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  flour  with  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar  and  one-fourth  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  until  thoroughly  mixed, 
then  stir  into  the  hot  milk;  stir  until 
thickened,  then  cover  and  let  cook 
fifteen  minutes;  beat  two  egg-yolks; 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and 
stir  into  the  hot  mixture.  When  the 
egg  is  set,  remove  from  the  fire,  let 
cool,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
and  use  as  above. 


PEACH  TARTS,   FLOWER  FASHION 


THE  BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Caramel  Custard 

Cook  half  a  cup  of  sugar  to  caramel; 
add  one-fourth  a  cup  of  water  and  let 
stand  to  dissolve  and  reduce.  Beat 
three  whole  eggs  and  two  yolks;  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  half  a 
teaspoonful   of   salt,   the   caramel   and 


well-buttered    Marguerite   tin    five    or 
six  minutes. 

Peach  Pie 

Spread  a  round  of  pastry  over  an  in- 
verted tin  or  agate  plate,  prick  the  paste 
repeatedly  with  a  fork;  set  the  paste- 
covered   plate  on  a  tin  sheet  and   let 


CARAMEL  CUSTARD 


two  scant  cups  of  milk.  Turn  into 
small  molds,  buttered  and  dredged  with 
sugar.  Let  bake  on  many  folds  of 
paper,  in  a  dish  half  filled  with  boil- 
ing water,  until  firm  in  the  center. 
Wien  cold  turn  from  the  molds. 

Pecan-Nut  Marguerites 
Beat  two  eggs  very  light,  without 
separating  the  whites  and  yolks;  beat 
in  one  cup  of  sifted  brown  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  one- 
third  a  cup  of  sifted  flour,  sifted  again 


bake  until  done.  Then  set  inside  the 
plate.  Press  cooked  peaches  —  canned 
or  evaporated — through  a  colander,  and 
let  heat  in  a  double  boiler;  beat  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  add  sugar  as  needed,  about 
half  a  cup  probably,  and  stir  into  the 
hot  fruit,  continue  to  stir  imtil  the 
mixture  thickens;  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg  and  turn 
into  the  pastry.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  two  eggs  dry;  beat  in  two  rounding 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  spread  over 


PECAN-NUT  MARGUERITES 


with  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful,  each, 
of  salt  and  baking  powder  and  one 
cup  of  pecan-nut  meats  broken  in 
two    or   three    pieces,    each.     Bake   in 


the  filling.  Set  into  a  moderate  oven 
to  cook  about  twelve  minutes.  The 
meringue  should  not  color  until  the 
last  two  or  three  minutes  of  cookii^. 


M 


for  One  Week  in  March 


enus  ror 

The  ancient  Fathers  lived  on  frugal  fare — roots,  cresses,  herbs — avoiding  viands  rare. — Gualdo. 


Cocoa 


Breakfast 

Grapefruit 

Scrambled  Eggs 

Delmonico  Potatoes 

Commeal  Muffins 


Coffee 


> 

< 
Q 


Dinner 

Vegetable  Consomm^,  Royale 
Fillets  of  Fresh  Fish,  Crumbed  and  Fried 

Sauce  Tartare  • 

Creamed  Cabbage 
Lemon  Sherbet  Pecan  Nut  Wafers 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Hot  Baked  Potatoes 

Smoked  Halibut  or  Salmon,  Shredded 

Stewed  Rhubarb 

Dry  Toast 

Tea 


< 

a 

o 
S 


> 
< 

Q 

D 
H 


D 


Breakfast 

Eggs  Shirred  with  Tomato 

Parker  House  Rolls  (reheated) 

Fried  Cornmeal  Mush,  Honey  Syrup 

Coffee  Cocoa 


Dinner 

Cream  of  Spinach 

Fresh  Fish-and-Potato  Cakes,  Saut6d 

Scalloped  Tomatoes  and  Onions 

Cocoanut  SoufH^,  Custard  Sauce 

Half  Cups  Coffee 


Supeer 

Macaroni  (with  tomato  and  cheese) 

Fruit  and  Nut  Rolls 

Tea  Cocoa 


a 

Si 
a 


Coffee 


Brealdast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Eggs  Cooked  in  the  Shell 

Date  Muffins 

Orange  Marmalade 


Cocoa 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 
Spanish  Omelet 
Baking  Powder  Biscuit 
Coffee  Honey 


Cocoa 


Dinner 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

Cheese  Souffle 

Lettuce,  French  Dressing 

Baked  Apple  Tarts,  Hard  Sauce 

Apple  Syrup  Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Eggs  Poached  in  Cream  on  Toast 

Canned  Fruit 

Apple  Sauce  Cake 

Tea 


Dinner 

Truffled  Fish  Mousse,  Hollandaise  Sauce 

Boiled  Potato  Balls,  with  Parsley  Butter 

Creamed  Salsify  au  Gratin 

Endive  Salad       Scalloped  Rhubarb 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Mayonnaise  of  Lettuce  and  Eggs 

Boston  Brown  Bread 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit,  Toasted 

Rhubarb  Marmalade  Tea 


H 

c 
> 


Coffee 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Creamed  Salt  Codfish 

Small  Baked  Potatoes 

Pickled  Beets 

Ryemeal  Muffins 


Cocoa 


Dinner 

Boiled  Fresh  Fish,  Egg  Sauce 

Boiled  Potatoes 

Spinach,  Italian  Fashion 

Pnine-and-Lemon  Jelly    Cream  and  Sugar 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Fried  Oysters 
Philadelphia  Relish 
Parker  House  Rolls 


Oatmeal  Macaroons 

Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Curried  Finnan  Haddie 

White  Hashed  Potatoes 

Pop  Overs 

Coffee  Cocoa 


Tea 


Coffee 


Breakfast 

Oranges 

French  Omelet 

Creamed  Potatoes 

Waffles,  Maple  Syrup 


Cocoa 


Dinner 

Salmon  made  hot  in  Can. 

Caper  or  Pickle  Sauce   . 

Boiled  Potatoes 

Canned  Asparagus  on  Toast,  Cheese  Sauce 

Orange  Sherbet  Drop  Cookies 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Creamed  Pimientos  and  Cheese 

Hot  Spider  Corn  Cake 

Baked  Apples  with  Meringue 

Sponge  Cake  Tea 


•*3 

O 


Dinner 

Grilled  Mackerel,  salt  or  fresh 

Creamed  Peas  in  Potato  Patties 

Lettuce,  French  Dressing,  with  Olives 

Oatmeal  Bread 

Ginger  Bavarian  Cream 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

617 


Supper 

Sardines 

Potato  Salad 

Baba,  Wine  Sauce 

Coffee 


Choice  Lenten  Luncheons  and  Dinners 


LUNCHEON  I. 

Cream  of  Spinach 

Smelts,  Italian  Style 

Peas  in  Potato  Patties 

Cloverleaf  Biscuit 

Asparagus-and-Egg  Salad 

Orange  Sherbet 

Pecan  Nut  Wafers 

CoflFee 

LUNCHEON  IL 

Strawberry-and-Pineapple  Cocktail 

Fried  Oysters 

Lettuce-and-Endive  Salad 

Lady  Finger  Rolls 

Cream  Cheese  Bar-le-duc 

Toasted  Beaten  Biscuit  or  English  Muffins 

Cocoa,  Whipped  Cream 

LUNCHEON  HL 

Halves  of  Grapefruit 

Cream  of  Komlet  Soup  with  Timbales 

Browned  Crackers 

Cheese  Croquettes 

Lettuce-and-Asparagus  Salad 

Lady  Finger  Rolls 

Fresh  Strawberry  Tarts 

Coffee 


DINNER  I. 

Vegetable  Consomm^  k  la  Royale 

Pulled  Bread 

Olives  Radishes  Salted  Nuts 

Lobster  Newburg  in  Hot  Ramekins 

Tiny  Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Large  Fillets  of  Fish  Stuffed  with  Oysters,  Baked, 

Bechamel  Sauce 

Potato  Balls,  Maitre  d'Hdtd 

Cucumbers,  French  Dressing  with  Chives 

Cheese  Balls  (fried)  Toasted  Crackers 

Endive  with  Salt 

Grape  Juice  Bomb  Glace 

Almond  Meringues  (Lady  Finger  Shape) 

Co£Fee 


DINNER  II 

Anchovy  or  Sardine  Eclairs 
Vegetable  Consomm^  Alphabet  P^ste 
Lobster  Cutlets,  Sauce  Tartare 
Parker  House  Rolls 
PuflF-Paste  Vol^u-vent 
Filling  of  Fresh  Mushrooms  and  French  Arti- 
choke Bottoms 
Lettuce,  Endive-and-Pistachio  Nut  Salad 
Meringues  with  Strawberries  and  Cream 

Coffee 


Luncheons  in  March  with  G)lor  Scheme 


I. 

(Color  Scheme  ,  Yellow) 

Cleared  Consomm^,  Custard  Royale 

Chicken  Croquettes,  Peas  with  Carrot  Shreds 

Mayonnaise  of  Lettuce  and  Sliced  Eggs 

Orange  Sherbet 

Cubes  of  Gold  Cake,  White  Frosting 


II. 

(  Color  Scheme,  Green  ) 
Halves  of  Grapefruit  with  Creme  de  Menthe 

Cherries 

Fillets  of  Fresh  Fish,  Asparagus  Tips 

Cucumber  Salad  sprinkled  with  Chopped  Parsley 

Clover  Leaf  Biscuit 

Baked  Chicken  Breasts  on  Broiled  Ham 

Broiled  Mushrooms 

Madeira  Sauce 

Endive,  Green  Pepper-and-Apple  Salad 

Sultana  Roll,  Claret  Sauce 

Salted  Nuts,  Candied  Mint  Leaves 

Coffee 


HI. 

(A^thout  meat) 
(Color  Scheme,  Green) 
Cream  of  Spinach        Bread  Stitcks 
Fish-and-Oyster  Croquettes,  Sauce  Tartare 

Potato  Balls,  Maitre  d'Hotel 
Lettuce  and  Asparagus  Mousseline,  French 

Dressing 

Lady  Finder  Rolls 

Pineapple  Omelet,  Pistachio  Decoration 

Chocolate  Mints  (green  centers) 

Coffee 

IV. 

(Color  Scheme,  Pink) 
Scallop  Cocktail 
^  Anchovy  Butter  Sandwiches 
Olives  Radishes 

Lamb  Chops,  Maintenon  Style 
Lettuce  and  Asparagus  Tips,  French  Dressing 
Maraschino  Cherry  Decoration 
Dinner  Rolls 
Strawberry  Sherbet 
Pecan  Nut  Marguerites 
Cocoa,  Whipped  Cream 


618 


Our  Daily  Bread,  or 
Preparation  in  Detail  of  the  Meals  of  One  Day 

Family  of  Two  Adults  and  Two  Children 


WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 

Ready-to-Eat  Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Oranges 

Calf's  Liver  and  Bacon 

Potatoes  Cooked  in  Milk 

Ryemeal  Muffins 

Dry  Toast 

Coffee  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Boiled  Shoulder  of  Lamb,  Caper  5>auce 

Boiled  Potatoes 

Creamed  Cabbage  au  Gratin 

Prune  Jelly,  Custard  Sauce 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Macaroni,  with  Tomato  Sauce  and  Gnoochi 

Rye  Bread  and  Butter  Toasted  Muffins 

Stewed  (dried  )Peaches,  Thin  Cream 

Oatmeal  Macaroons 

Tea 

FOR  breakfast  a  ready-to-eat  cereal 
is  given  and  if  the  preparations  for 
breakfast  are  made  the  night  before- 
hand, the  final  cooking  of  the  meal 
should  not  tax  one.  In  serving  let 
each  choose  an  orange  or  the  cereal  as 
the  combination  of  the  two  in  the  same 
meal  is  not  harmonious.  Broil  the 
bacon  over  a  dripping  pan  in  the  oven, 
while  the  oven  is  heating  for  the  muflSns. 
For  the  muffins  use  the  recipe  given 
for  Graham  muflSns  in  the  Novenber 
number  of  this  magazine;  substituting 


rvemeal  for  the  Graham  flour.  The 
rye  meal  makes  an  exceptionally  sweet- 
tasting  muffin.  Note  the  directions 
•previously  given  for  heating  the  iron 
muffin-pan.  Cut  the  liver  in  thin 
slices,  pour  on  boiling  water,  then  dry 
on  a  doth  and  roll  in  flour.  Heat 
some  of  the  bacon  fat  in  a  frying  pan 
and  in  this  cook  the  liver  until  browned 
on  one  side,  then  turn  to  brown  the 
other  side.  But  half  of  the  liver  will 
be  needed  for  breakfast,  the  other  half 
should  be  set  aside  in  the  refrigerator, 
at  once.  If  left  in  the  kitchen  until 
after  breakfast,  it  will  not  be  in  good 
condition  to  keep  for  the  next  day. 
Melt  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  in  a  sauce  pan;  into  this  turn  the 
potatoes,  cooked  Tuesday  and  cut  in 
small  thin  slices  on  Tuesday  night, 
sprinkle  on  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
(for  about  a  pint  of  slices)  then  turn  the 
potatoes  over  and  over  to  distribute 
the  butter  evenly;  add  about  three- 
foiu1;hs  a  cup  of  milk  and  let  cook 
slowly;  stir  gently  once  or  twice;  then 
cover  and  set  them  on  an  asbestos  mat 
until  breakfast  is  ready. 

As  soon  as  possible  after  breakfast 
wipe  the  shoulder  of  lamb  with  a  damp 
cloth,  and  set  to  cook  on  the  rack  in 
a  steam  cooker.  Pour  about  three 
pints  of  boiling  water  into  the  cooker,  let 
boil  rapidly  about  ten  minutes,  then 
let  simmer  until  dinner  tinie.     About 


619 


620 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


four  pounds  of  lamb  should  be  purchased 
and  this  should  be  sent  home  on  Tues- 
day, to  insure  its  being  cooked  for  the 
dinner  at  noon. 

After  setting  the  meat  to  cook,  make 
the  prune  jelly  and  the  custard;  pare  the 
potatoes  and  let  them  stand  in  cold 
water  until  half  an  hour  before  dinner 
is  to  be  served.  The  cabbage  was  left 
over  from  Tuesday;  cut  this  in  shreds, 
measure  out  the  ingredients  for  a  cup 
and  a  half  of  white  sauce  (three  .table- 
spoonfuls,  each,  of  flotir  and  butter  and 
one  cup  and  a  half  of  milk) ;  roll  three 
or  foiu"  crackers,  and  mix  the  crumbs 
with  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter.  Cook  the  peaches 
(soaked  over  night)  and  make  the  mac- 
aroons; also  break  the  macaroni  into  a 
sauce  pan.  Do  not  cook  the  macaroni 
until  an  hour  before  supper,  as  it  will 
absorb  the  flavors  added  to  .it  much 
more  readily  when  hot.  None  of  the 
work  for  the  day  is  at  all  difficult,  and 
it  may  easily  be  finished  by  half  past  ten 
or  eleven  o'clock  and  thus  give  an  hour 
or  more  before  dinner  to  spend  in  other 
parts  of  the  house.  At  supper  the 
cooking  of  the  macaroni  must  be  watched, 
the  tomato  sauce  made  and  the  muffins 
left  over  from  breakfast  be  toasted. 

The  prunes  are  left  over  from  Tues- 
day; about  a  cup  of  prunes,  freed  of 
stones,  will  be  needed.  If  the  quantity 
of  prunes  be  small,  add  more  mar- 
malade or  lemon  juice  or  candied  peel, 
cooked  soft  in  boiling  water.  Sherry 
wine  or  orange  juice  may  be  used  to 
increase  the  flavor.  About  one  cup 
and  a  half  of  prunes  and  liquid  are  re- 
quired. To  this  add  from  one-fourth 
to  one-third  a  cup  of  sugar  and 
one-fourth  a  p;ackage  of  gelatine, 
softened  in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  cold 
water.  If  ice  be  not  at  hand,  it  is 
doubtful  if  the  mixture  will  jelly  in 
time  for  dinner.  In  this  case,  sub- 
stitute Prune  Whip  for  the  Jelly. 
Press  the  prunes  through  a  sieve 
(the  same  quantity  as  for  jelly),  add 
one-third   a   cup   of   sugar,   one   table- 


spoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  let  heat  in 
a  double  boiler;  when  scalding  hot  fold 
in  the  whites  of  two  or  three  eggs, 
beaten  dry,  and  let  cook  to  set  the 
eggs,  stirring  meanwhile.  Serve  hot 
or  cold,  with  the  cold  boiled  custard. 

For   the   custard,   to  be   used   with 
either  dessert,  scald  one  pint  of  milk 
in  a  double  boiler;  beat  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  add  one-third  a  cup  of  sugar 
and  one-fourth  a   teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  beat  again;   when   small   bubbles 
appear  on  the  edge  of  the  milk  next  the 
dish  and  the  water  is  boiling  vigorously 
below,  pour  a  little  of  the  hot  milk  on 
the   eggs   and   sugar,   rmx   thoroughly 
and  stir  into  the  rest  of  the  hot  milk; 
continue  to  stir  until  the  mixture  thick- 
ens a  little,  then  strain  into  a  cold  dish. 
Perhaps  you  have  only  two   egg-yolks 
for   the   custard.    Scald   the   milk  as 
before,  stir  one  or  two  level  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  constarch  or   potato  flour  with 
cold  milk  to  a  thin,  smooth  consistency, 
then  stir  into  the  hot  nulk;  continue  to 
stir  two  or  three  minutes,  then  cover 
and  let  cook  fifteen  minutes;  then  add 
the  yolks  and  sugar  as  before.    Half 
an  hoiu"  before  dinner,  put  the  potatoes 
over  the  fire;  make  the  white  sauce  for 
the   cabbage,   add   the   cabbage,    turn 
the  mixture  into  a  buttered  dish,  cover 
with  the  buttered  crumbs  and  set  into 
the  oven.     Make  a  cup  of  drawn  butter 
sauce,  using  cold  water  or  some  of  the 
lamb  broth  (freed    of    fat    with    tissue 
paper)  for  the  liquid.     This  is  the  same 
sauce,  with  the  exception  of  the  variety 
of  liquid,  given  for  the  fish  on  Tuesday. 
When  ready  to  serve  beat  in  the  extra 
butter,    two    tablespoonfuls   of   capers 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  or 
vinegar.     Set  the  lamb  broth  aside  in 
a  cool  place  for  use  on  Thursday.     Broth 
is  much  better,  if  it  be  cooled  quickly. 

At  five  o'clock,  set  the  macaroni  to 
cook  in  rapidly-boiling  water,  and  let 
cook  until  tender,  adding  boiling  water 
as  needed.  When  done  drain,  rinse  in 
cold  water  and  drain  again.  Have 
ready  a  cup  pf  hot  tomato  sauce,  the 


OUR    DAILY    BREAD 


621 


gnocchi  left  over  from  Tuesday,  cut 
in  bits,  and  about  one-fourth  a  chili 
pepper,  chopped  exceedingly  fine.  The 
sauce  calls  for  two  tablespoonfuls,  each, 
of  butter  and  flour  and  one  cup  of  cooked 
tomatoes  pushed  through  a  sieve.  All 
of  the  tomato  save  the  seeds  should 
pass  through  the  sieve.  One-fourth  a 
teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  pepper 
will  season  the  sauce.  To  the  sauce 
add  the  chopped  pepper,  mix  thoroughly, 
then  pour  the  sauce  over  the  macaroni 
and  the  bits  of  gnocchi;  lift  the. macaroni 
with  spoon  and  fork  to  mix  all  evenly 
together,    then   let   stand   undisturbed 


over    hot    water,    and    covered,    until 
the  family  are  seated  at  the  table. 

The  recipe  for  the  oatmeal  maca- 
roons provides  from  twelve  to  eighteen 
little  cakes.  To  make  these,  beat  one 
egg  light;  gradually  beat,  in  half  a  cup 
of  sugar,  half  a  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter,  one-fotirth  a  teaspoonftd  of  salt 
and,  lastly,  one  cup  and  one-fourth  of 
rolled  oats.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon 
on  to  a  buttered  baking  sheet  and  shape 
in  symmetrical  rounds.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Lift  from  the  tin  to  a 
wire  cooler  with  a  spatula.  As  these 
keep  well,  the  recipe  might  be  doubled. 


A  Villanelle  of  Left  Overs 

Distraught,  I  scan  the  ice-chest's  mean  array. 
For  guests  have  come  to  share  the  noonday 
meal  — 
A  picked-up  luncheon  Fate  decrees  to-day. 

Three  bolied  potatoes,  saved  for  a  sauU; 

Too  few,  but  I'll  be  artful  when  I  deal. 
Distraught,  I  scan  the  ice-chest's  mean  array. 

This  ham  will  make  a  slender  rechauffe; 

That  parsley  spray  may  add  to  its  appeal  — 
A  picked-up  luncheon  Fate  decrees  to-day. 

A  frugal  dish  of  carrots,  set  away; 

Drawn  butter  must  the  deficit  conceal. 
Distraught,  I  scan  the  ice-chest's  mean  array. 

For  salad,  I  assemble  in  dismay 

Six  leaves  of  lettuce,  and  a  scrap  of  ve^l  — 
A  picked-up  luncheon  Fate  decrees  to-day. 

A  lone  banana,  just  a  bit  passe, 

A  lemon,  and  a  dab  of  cold  oatmeal. 
Distraught,  I  scan  the  ice-chest's  mean  arra>'. 

A  tin  of  soup  I'll  ope  without  delay; 

Some  pudding  from  tonight's  supply  I'll  steal; 
A  picked-up  luncheon  Fate  decrees  to-day. 

Alas,  'tis  not  a  bounteous  display. 

Surveying  it,  a  pailjg  of  doubt  I  feel. 
Distraught,  I  scan  the  ice-chest's  mean  array  — 
A  picked-up  luncheon  Fate  decrees  to-day. 


CoRiNNB  Rockwell  Swain. 


Reducing  Time  Spent  in  the  Kitchen 

By  Jessamine  Chapman  Williams 


NO  homekeeper  wishes  to  spend 
more  time  than  is  absolutely 
necessETy  in  accomplishing  the 
kitchen  duties.  There  are  many  other 
fields  for  her  time  and  efforts  that  are 
just  as  important  and,  perhaps,  more 
interesting.  Time  saved  in  kitchen  work 
will  make  these  other  duties  and  plea- 
sures, otherwise  impossible,  a  realiza- 
tion. It  may  be  only  a  minute,  here 
and  there,  in  doing  this  or  that,  that 
time  may  be  saved,  but  the  minutes 
count  up  into  hours,  and  it  is  then  the 
housekeeper  will  be  glad  she  studied  the 
problem  of  kitchen  economy  of  time. 

With  pencil  in  hand,  then,  let  her 
enumerate  the  various  methods  to  em- 
ploy in  saving  time  in  doing  the  kitchen 
work.  The  first  item  on  her  list  must 
necessarly  be; 

1.  A  convient  workshop.  No  efficient 
workman  will  endure  an  inconvenient 
place  for  business,  if  there  is  a  way  of 
avoiding  it.  The  kitchen  must  be  as 
near  as  possible  a  model  workshop. 
Consider  the  relative  positions  of  the 
necessary  machinery  of  the  kitchen,  the 
stove,  the  sink,  the  work-table,  and  cup- 
boarc^.  Can  a  step  or  two  be  saved, 
were  the  table  placed  somewhere  else? 
Is  the  table  placed  where  there  is  a  good 
light?  Woiild  it  be  more  convenient 
to  have  the  table  a  moveable  one,  placed 
on  castors  and  moved  near  the  stove 
during  the  preparation  of  a  meal;  near 
the  sink  during  the  dish  washing;  and 
in  some  out  of  the  way  place  when  not 


in  use  ?  And  its  construction  is  a 
consideration.  Is  it  dumsy  and  heavy 
to  move,  of  a  height  that  does  not 
cause  backaches  in  working  at  it,  cov- 
ered with  something  easy  to  keep  im- 
maculately clean  with  little  effort  ?  A 
service  plate,  which  is  simply  a  sheet  of 
tin  about  the  size  of  the  table  top,  is 
considered  to  be  a  labor  and  time  saver 
by  some.  The  cereal  may  be  measured 
over  it;  the  egg-beater,  soiled  utensils, 
cups  with  dripping  sides  may  be  placed 
on  it,  ingredients  for  a  cake  measured 
on  it,  vegetables  and  fruits  pared  on 
it,  thus  saving  a  constant  wiping  of 
the  table.  Is  dish  washing  to  be  done 
at  the  sink  or  on  the  table?  Batter 
mixed  in  the  pantry  or  on  the  table? 
The  table's  use  will  determine  its  struc- 
ture and  position.  A  table  built  on 
the  hospital  order,  iron,  white  enameled, 
with  two  glass  shelves,  light,  of  the 
right  aze  and  height,  easy  to  clean,  on 
castors  to  move  near  the  stove  at  meal- 
servihg  time,  near  the  sink  at  dish- 
washing time,  is  one  of  the  best  types 
of  kitchen  machinery. 

Next,  is  it  possible  to  save  time  at 
"sink  duties"?  Here  again,  it  makes  a 
difference  what  material  the  sink  is 
made  of,  its  height,  its  depth  of 
basin,  the  convenience  of  drain-boards, 
and  the  methods  of  manipulating  the 
faucets.  One  needs  to  work  at  a  sink 
to  test  its  efficiency.  At  first,  one 
might  not  notice  that  a  particular  sink 
was  built  with  so  shallow  a  basin  that, 


REDUCING  TIME  SPENT  IN  THE  KITCHEN 


623 


when  washing  dishes  in  it,  a  slopping 
of  water  over  the  edge  and  on  the 
floor  would  be  an  inevitable  result.  Be 
sure  a  dish-pan  can  set  down  flat  in  the 
sink,  and  not  rock  about,  because  the 
basin  is  too  narrow. 

Of  all  the  kitchen  implements  there 
is  none  so  important  as  the  stove.  Nine- 
tenths  of  the  labor  of  the  kitchen  centers 
around  it.  To  obtain  a  satisfactory 
stove  is  a  problem.  The  kind,  size, 
height,  quickness  in  heating,  ease  in 
regulating,  and  ease  in  cleaning  will 
have  more  to  do  with  time-saving  than 
anything  else.  Why  are  most  stoves 
built  with  an  oven  so  low  that  it  is 
necessary  to  get  down  on  one's  knees  to 
use  it?  And  why  are  ovu*  kitchen 
ranges  so  decorated?  Could  not  the 
nickle  trimming  be  omitted  and  time 
be  saved  in  cleaning?  Why  is  the 
warming  oven  built  so  high  that  the 
average  person  has  to  stand  on  a  chair 
to  dust  it?  The  energetic  housekeeper 
will  find  the  best  stove  on  the  market, 
knowing  that  it  will  mean  a  time  and 
labor  saver. 

Discard  all  useless,  unnecessary  ar- 
ticles -of  fumittire,  utensils,  and  orna- 
ments. If  the  modem  kitchen  is  a 
work-shop,  it  can  not  be  a  sitting-room 
as  well.  The  Boston  rocker  and  the 
red,  table-cloth,  covered  table  may  have 
had  their  places  in  the  old  New  England 
kitchen,  which  was  also  the  family 
living-room;  but  in  the  modem  work- 
shop kitchen  the  high  work  stool  must 
occupy  the  place  of  the  Boston  rocker. 

A  place  for  everything  is  obviously  a 
path  to  time  saving.  The  time  lost 
in  hunting  for  a  paring  knife,  a  certain 
kind  of  basin,  or  the  pepper  box  can 
count  up  as  fast  as  moments  saved 
somewhere  else,  and  hence  no  gain  is 
made.  Things  are  often  just  "dropped 
in**  the  table  drawer  or  kitchen  cup- 
board and  then  must  come  the  ''fishing*' 
process  to  find  a  particular  utensil. 
A  drawer,  divided  into  compartments, 
and  like  things  put  together  is  a  saving 
of  minutes  and  perhaps  hours  of  time. 


Study  the  placing  of  equipment  and 
tools  in  the  tiny  box  of  a  dining-car 
kitchen,  then  think  of  the  elaborate 
meals  served  to  such  numbers  of  people 
from  it.  Could  such  be  accomplished 
without  a  careftd  study  of  economy  of 
space,  time,  and  labor? 

Given,  then,  the  most  convenient 
work-shop  and  the  most  convenient 
tools  for  work,  are  there  other  means 
of  saving  time  quite  as  possible  or  more 
so? 

2.  The  kitchen  duties.  What  are  the 
kitchen  duties  ?  Nine-tenths  of  the  work 
consists  in  meal  getting,  serving,  and 
cleaning  up  after  meals.  Time  can 
be  lost  or  saved  early  in  the  day  with 
regard  to  meal  preparation.  First,  know 
the  menu  for  the  day;  second,  take  an 
inventory  of  supplies  on  hand;  third, 
order  additional  suppUes.  It  is  so  easy 
to  put  off  ordering  the  meat  tmtil  late; 
then  so  easy  to  find  fault  because  it 
wasn't  delivered  on  time,  then  follows 
a  scramble  to  cook  some  emergency 
dish  as  a  substitute,  or  an  unnecessary 
delay  caused  in  serving  the  meal  inter- 
fering with  other  engagements  for  the 
day.  With  a  definite  menu  planned  for 
each  meal,  and  the  supplies  ordered 
and  delivered  promptly,  a  good  start 
is  made. 

Now  in  the  actual  preparation  of  a 
meal,  how  economize?  Before  even 
going  to  the  kitchen,  know  what  the 
processes  involved  are  and  the  order  of 
procedure,  the  time  requied  to  prepare 
food  for  cooking,  the  length  of  time 
needed  in  cooking,  and  the  exact  time 
when  each  dish  must  be  started  and 
finished.  On  entering  the  kitchen  look 
first  to  the  fire  and  get  the  heat  required; 
second,  see  that  there  is  boiling  water  to 
use;  third,  get  out  all  the  supplies  needed 
for  the  cooking;  foiuth,  begin  the  cook- 
ing according  to  the  schedtde  of  time 
for  each  dish;  fifth,  with  the  help  of  a 
large  tray,  carry  to  the  dining-room  the 
dishes,  silver,  glass  and  Unen  for  the 
table  or  get  these  from  the  china  closet 
and  buffet.    The  table  may  be  set  dur- 


628 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


world  that  can  be  eaten  enjoyably  like 
an  apple  in  the  raw  state.  There  is 
no  puckery  quality;  it  has  a  delicious 
flavor.  It  will  cook  tender  in  a  few 
minutes  and  retain  this  unequaled  flavor. 

Of  cotu-se,  this  quince  can  be  used  in 
the  many  ways  that  other  quinces  can 
be  cooked,  in  preserves,  puddings,  con- 
fections, ices,  etc.  The  quince  is  a  very 
ancient  fruit ,  taking  its  name  of  cydonia 
from  Cydonia  in  Greece. 

This  quince  resembles  in  form  and 
size  the  Orange  Quince ,  but  it  is  sweeter 
and  more  globular  and  a  lighter  yellow. 
The  average  weight  is  about  three 
quarters  of  a  pound,  each. 

Tarragon 

TARRAGON  is  a  hardy  plant  with 
narrow  little  grasslike  leaves  of  no 
marked  beauty;  but  often  found  useful 
for  foliage  in  light  arrangments  of 
flowers. 

It  may  be  wise  to  inform  many  that 
roots  must  be  secured.  Seedsmen  do 
not  sell  tarragon  seeds.  In  the  Decem- 
ber Delineater  an  article  on  herbs  in 
cookery  by  Louise  Rice  mentions  that 
the  roots  are  used  for  making  the  vin- 
egar. But  this  is  not  the  general  prac- 
tice according  to  all  available  author- 
ities and  botanists.  Probably  the  stress 
laid  upon  securing  the  roots,  whereby 
to  grow  the  plant  at  all,  made  it  seem 
as  if  that  were  the  valued  part  for  infus- 
ing in  vinegar;  the  leaves  are  very 
strong  and  fine  flavored,  almost  too 
much  so,  since  to  many  the  odor  is  not 
as  pleasing  as  the  flavor. 

In  an  increasing  number  of  recipes 
tarragon  is  mentioned  and  always  in 
foreign  books  by  noted  authorities  and 
epicures. 

A  few  drops  of  tarragon  vinegar  im- 
proves mayonnaise,  and  is  fine  on  pick- 
led beets;  it  adds  the  something  laclcing, 
or  gives  a  greater  zest.  Garlic  infused 
with  tarragon  in  vinegar  adds  a  French 
note  to  the  harmony. 

The  fresh  leaves  may  be  added  to 
potato  salad,  and  many  other  fish  sal- 


ads, etc.,  but  always  use  them  in  mod- 
eration in  salads,  "gravies"  and  "made 
dishes'*.     A  little  goes  a  long  way. 

' J.  D.  C. 

Meeting  the  Problem  of  Living 

(G>iitmued  from  Page  605) 

moderate  amount  of  pleasures  (and 
many  of  these  inexpensive),  a  limited 
amount  of  substantial  and  dainty  foods, 
bring  the  maximtim  of  satisfaction  and 
the  minimum  of  regret. 

Another  nMstake  we  make  is  to  buy 
cheap    imitations    which    cannot    hold 
their  own  and  must  soon  be  replaced. 
Better  one  good  article  suited  to  your 
station  in  life  than  a  dozen  "shoddy" 
ones    which    satisfy    but    for    a    time. 
Plenty  of  people  live  shallow,  deceitful 
lives ,  because  they  want  other  people 
to  believe  they  possess  something  which 
they  do  not.     Every  one,  for  instance, 
knows  you  are  a  machinist,  and  a  good 
one.    People  know  you  earn  good  wages 
and  can  afford  a  pleasant,  comfortable 
home  and  a  reasonable  amount  of  the 
luxuries  of  life,  and  they  respect  you 
accordingly,  but  when  you  live  beyond 
yotu"  means  and  wear  or  use  shoddy 
imitations  of  what  your  employer  has, 
you  do  not  deceive  them  for  a  moment, 
and  in  their  hearts  they  despise  you. 
Never  be  anything  but  what  you  seem. 

Then ,  again,  too  many  of  us  are  either 
so  indolent  or  so  vain  that  we  think 
we  must  hire  others  to  perform  for  us 
tasks  which  we  coidd  just  as  well  do 
for  otirselves.  Often  this  extra  service 
means  a  burden  of  debt  or  a  going  with- 
out a  real  necessity.  The  -Lord  gave 
you  some  wonderful  nattiral  instru- 
ments with  which  to  help  yourself. 
Why  not  use  them? 

In  many  homes,  the  garbage  can  and 
the  rag  bag  claim  too  large  a  percentage 
of  our  earnings.  Wise  calculation, 
thrift  and  judgment  in  buying,  would , 
in  many  cases, make  the  living  problem 
a  much  simpler  one.  Not  infrequently, 
too,  "bargain  days,"  "red  mark  sales," 


MEETtN'G  THE  PROBLEM  OE  LlVlMG 


620 


and  catchy  ads  draw  to  themselves 
cash  for  a  collection  of  adds  and  ends 
which  are  superfluous  or  of  little  use. 
Learn  to  resist,  even  while  admiring, 
the  attractions  of  the  show  window. 
Limit  your  luxuries  to  your  purse.  A 
woman,  I  once  knew,  clothed  herself  and 
two  children  on  an  allowance,  the  equiv- 
alent of  that  spent  by  the  husband  and 
father  on  luxuries  unsuited  to  his  in- 
come and  obligations. 

Some  other  little  items,  which  soon 
mount  into  large  ones,  are  ice  cream, 
candy,  moving  picttues,  theatres,  and 
even  books,  magazines,  concerts  and 
lectures.  Limit  your  indulgence,  and 
the  pleasures  you  do  enjoy  will  be  all 
the  sweeter.  Some  people  continually 
live  in  an  unhealthy  atmosphere  of  un- 
rest. They  think  they  must  always  be 
eating  and  seeing,  doing  and  feeling. 
Not  so.  If  such  be  your  inclination,  by 
all  means  cultivate  a  more  sane  and 
higher  attitude  toward  life. 

Again,  how  few  wage  earners  care- 
fully consider  income  and  outgo.  True, 
they  know  they  earn  a  given  salary  or 
wage,  must  have  certain  .things,  and 
desire  others,  but  do  not  really  stop  to 
consider  where  and  how  they  spend. 
If  they  see  a  thing  and  want  it,  they 
buy.  If  there  is  no  ready  cash,  it  is 
charged.  Now  credit  is  a  good  and 
useftil  thing  in  its  place,  but  **charge  it** 
is  a  bad  habit.  Better  sit  down  and 
make  a  rough  draft  of  what  you  need 
during  the  month,  together  with  its 
probable  cost.  Then  allow  a  reasonable 
amount,  each,  for  the  luxuries,  contin- 


gencies, and,  if  possible,  the  savings 
account.  Keep  this  where  you  can 
refer  to  it  from  day  to  day,  and  when 
you  have  spent  everything  you  can 
honestly  afford,  deny  yourself  until 
such  time  as  your  circumstances  will 
permit  further  expenditure.  All  but 
the  most  meager  incomes  can  save 
something.  If  your  income  will  not 
cover  your  outgo,  curtail  expenses  to 
meet  that  income  or  go  where  your  in- 
come will  at  least  provide  for  your  needs. 
Do  not  starve  or  freeze:  neither  is 
economy. 

In  conclusion,  permit  me  to  say:  be 
thrifty,  not  niggardly;  be  generous, 
but  just,  in  your  giving;  study  ways  and 
means;  keep  tab  on  the  little  things, 
as  well  as  on  the  large  ones;  use  common- 
sense  and  judgment  in  your  buying; 
do  not  allow  your  desires  to  run  away 
with  your  pocket  book;  and  joy  in  God's 
free  pleasures,  as  well  as  in  man's  ex- 
pensive ones;  live  where  you  can  afford 
to;  wear  clothing  that  is  serviceable,  as 
well  as  beautiful;  pay  such  prices  as  you 
can  affgrd  for  what  you  buy;  purchase 
nothing  just  because  your  neighbor  does; 
cutivate  your  morai  and  intellectual 
faculties;  worship  God  in  sincerity  and 
in  truth;  in  brief,  so  resolve  the  high  cost 
of  living  that  of  itself  it  will  no  longer  be 
a  problem,  but  instead  only  a  phase  of 
the  high  cost  of  living,  a  something 
which  can  be  regulated  largely  by  your- 
self;  and,  finally,  win  from  life  its  sweet- 
est and  noblest  and  best,  because  into 
it  you  have  put  the  highest  and  best  of 
yourself. 


Wisdom  in  a  Garden 


Wtien  things  for  a  while  have  gone  aisy. 
An'  sudden  comes  need  for  hard  work, 

'Tis  mainly  lest  we  should  grow  lazy, 
Forgettin'  'tis  shameful  to  shirk. 


For  that  very  labor  an'  achin'. 
An'  toilin'  that  seems  far  too  sore. 

Is  just  what's  been  needed  for  makin' 
Us  ten  times  our  worth  o'  before. 


'Tis  short-sighted  ones  be  complainin'. 

When  all  o'  the  time  they  do  know 
That  sides  may  be  dark  when  'tis  raining*. 

But  then  things  worth  while  start  an'  grow. 


Aldis  Dunbak. 


THIS  departmcDt  b  for  the  benefit  and  free  lue  of  our  aubscriben.  QuesdoM  tdati^ 
to  fcdpes,  and  thoK  pertainii^  to  culinary  science  and  domestic  economica  in  Eenenl, 
win  be  cheerfully  answered  by  the  editor.  CommunicattonB  for  this  department  must  reach  us  brfcn 
tiw  first  of  the  month  preceding  that  in  which  the  answen  arc  expected  to  appear.  Tnletten  requotiq 
■nswers  by  mafl,  please  enclose  addressed  and  stamped  envelope.  For  menus  remit  tl.Ott  Addresi 
queries  to  Janet  M.  Hill,  Editor.  Botraii  CooDna-SoiKit  Mu«fln,  372  fioylston  St.,  Boston,  Han 

Beetroot  Broth  (Fillippini) 

Boil  four  red  beets  fifteen  minutes; 
remove  the  skins  and  slice  the  roots 
into  a  saucepan;  add  two  pounds  of 
chopped  shin^f  beef,  one  sliced  carrot , 
one  sliced  onion,  two  leeks,  two  branches 
of  parsley,  one  branch  o£  chervil,  two 
bay  leaves  and  two  cloves;  pour  into 
the  pan  three  quarts  of  water  and  sea- 
son with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  mix  well 
and  let  slowly  come  to  a  boil,  then  keep 
simmering  two  hours;  remove  from  the 
fire  and  strain  through  a  double  cheese 
cloth.     Serve  at  once. 

Barsh  a  la  Polonaise  (Deliee) 
Rasp  or  pound  a  dozen  red  beet  roots; 
put  them  into  a  stone  jar  with  four 
quarts  of  cold  water  and  a  pound  of  r>-e 
bread  crumbs,  cover  with  a  cloth  and  the 
jar  cover  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to 
ferment  for  a  week. 

Put  into  a  soup-kettle  two  pounds  of 
beef,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  a  duck,  half  a 
pound  of  salt  pork,  foiu"  smoked  sau- 
sages, salt,  a  gallon  of  w^ter  and  the 
water  drained  from  the  beets;  set  to 
cook,  skimming  well;  add  a  carrot,  an 
onion,  two  leeks,  a  bunch  of  parsley, 
three  cloves,  allspice  and  pepper  covers; 
let  simmer  gently,  taking  up  the  sau- 
sages, pork,  duck,  and  beef  as  each  is 
done;  let  the  rest  simmer  another  hour, 
then  skim  off  all  fat  and  strain  the  broth 


Filets  of  Soles,  Veronique 

Remove  the  filets  from  a  sole;  trim 
all  to  the  same  si-ze  and  shape,  with 
pointed  ends;  fold  each  filet  in  the  mid- 
dle, to  make  half  length ;  if  desired  each 
filet  may  be  folded  over  a  cubical 
strip  of  raw  potato,  thoroughly  buttered. 
The  potato  is  removed  before  serving 
and  its  use  adds  to  the  appearance  of 
the  dish.  Butter  a  dish  suitable  for 
the  table  and  in  this  set  the  prepared 
filets,  each  separately.  To  the  bones 
and  trimmings  of  the  fish  add  half  an 
onion,  sliced,  three  branches  of  parsley, 
three  slices  of  carrot,  juice  of  one-fourth 
a  lemon,  half  a  cup  of  white  wine  and 
about  a  cup  of  cold  water;  cover  and 
let  simmer  half  an  hour  after  the  boil- 
ing point  is  reached;  strain  this  broth 
over  the  filets  and  let  them  poach  very 
gently  about  fifteen  minutes.  Lift  out 
the  filets,  cover  them  and  keep  hot; 
reduce  the  liquid  to  the  consistency  of 
a  thin  syrup,  and  gradually  beat  into 
it  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and 
salt  to  season;  pour  this  over  the  fish, 
set  back  into  the  baking  dish  to  leave 
an  open  space  in  the  center.  Set  the 
dish  in  a  hot  oven  that  a  glaze  may 
form  on  the  fish.  When  ready  to  serve 
set  a  pyramid  of  skinned  and  very  cold 
muscatel  grapes  in  the  center  of  the 
dish. 


QUERIES   AND   ANSWERS 


631 


through  a  wet  napkin;  return  to  the 
stewpan  to  reheat;  cut  half  the  pork  and 
part  of  the  beef  in  small  pieces,  the 
sausages  in  thin  rounds,  and  the  meat 
of  the  duck  in  small  collops;  put  these 
in  the  soup-tureen  with  a  dozen,  small, 
beef,  sausage-meat  balls,  previously  fried, 
and  two  boiled  beets,  cut  in  small 
shreds;  pour  over  the  boiling  broth. 
The  broth  should  have  the  tint  and 
limpidity  of  claret  wine. 

Query  2137. —  "In  acting  as  a  judge  of  pies 
entered  at  a  prize  contest  at  Farmers' Institute, 
what  are  some  of  the  points  on  which  a  judgment 
could  be  based  ? 

Points  on  Which  Pies  Might  Be 

Judged 

1.  Color:  well  baked  but  not  too  dark. 

2.  Matter  of  leakage. 

3.  Condition  of  under  crust  (soaked  or 

not). 

4.  Tenderness  of  crust. 

5.  Flakiness  of  crust. 

6.  Apple  pies  —  tenderness  and  juici- 

ness of  apple. 

7.  Custard,  squash  and  pumpkin  pies  — 

delicacy   and   texture   of  filling. 

Query  2138. —  "Give  simple  menus  for  one 
week  for  a  family  of  six  college  boys." 

Menus  for  Six  College  Boys 

SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Oranges 

Cold  Boiled  Ham 

Creamed  Potatoes 

Com  Meal  Muffins 

Dry  Toast 

Doughnuts 


Coffee 


Cocoa 


Dinner 

Lamb-and-Tomato  Soup 

(Unthickened) 

Chuck  of  Beef,  pot-roasted 

Baked  Potatoes 

Bananas,  Sultana  Sauce 

Boiled  Spinach  or  Beet  Greens 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream,  Maple  Syrup 

Chopped  Nuts 

Cookies 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

BoUed  Rice,  Milk 

Stewed  Prunes 


Tea 


Coffee 


Cottage  or  Neufchatel  Cheese 
French  Bread  and  Butter 

MONDAY 
Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Pot  Roast,  and  Potato.Hash 

Home  Made  Pickles 

Griddle  Cakes,  Syrup 


Cocoa 


Cocoa 


Dinner 

Veal  Cutlets,  Tomato  Sauce 

Mashed  Pototaes,  Spinach-and-Egg  Salad 

Prune  Pie  Squash  Pie 

Coffee 
Supper 
Crackers        Fresh  Fish  Chowder  Olives 

Bread  and  Butter 
•  Baked  Apples  Chocolate  Cake 

Tea 

TUESDAY 
Breakfast 

Oranges 
Hot  Ham  Sandwiches 
Spider  Corn  Cake 
Coffee  Dry  Toast  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Fricass^  of  Fowl 

Cranberry  Sauce 

Small  Hot  Biscuits  or  Toast 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Cabbage  Salad 

Tea 

Supper 

Boston  Baked  Beans 

Lettuce,  French  Dressing 

Boston  Brown  Bread 

White  Bread 

Stewed  Evaporated  Peaches 

Tea 

WEDNESDAY 
Breakfast 

Creral,  Hot  Dates,  Thin  Cream 
Eggs  Scrambled  with  Chopped  Ham 
German  Fried  Potatoes 
Rice  Griddle  Cakes,  Syrup 


Coffee 


Cocoa 


Dinner 

Chicken  Gumbo  Soup 
Mayonnaise  of  Apples  and  Dates,  with  Lecttuce 
Whole  Wheat  Bread  and  Butter 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream,  Chocolate  Sauce 
Little  Nut  Cakes 
Coffee 


632 


THE  BOSTOK  COOKlNG-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Supper 

Rice  Croquettes,  Cheese  Sauce 
Bread  and  Butter 
Canned  Fruit 
Cocoa  Gingerbread  Tea 

THURSDAY 
Breakfast 

Hot  Cereal,  Bananas,  Thin  Cream 

Eggs  Cooked  in  Shell 
Parker  House  Rolls  (reheated) 
Cornmeal  Mufflns 
Coffee  Toast  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Leg  of  Lamb  (yearling)  Roasted 

Franconia  Potatoes 

Lettuce  and  Canned  Asparagus,  French  Dressing 

Tapioca  Custard  Pudding 

Vanilla  Sauce 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Broiled  Bacon 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Graham  MufHns 

White  Bread  and  Butter 

Honey 

Tea 

FRIDAY 

Breakfast 

Oranges 
Salt  Codfish  Balls.  Mustard 
Yeast  Rolls  reheated 
Cornmeal  Mush,  Fried,  Maple  Syrup 
Coffee  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Mock  Bisque  Soup 

Lamb  Croquettes  or  Souffle  Peas 

Cabbage  Salad 
Cottage  Puddding  (baked  in  muffin  pan) 

Foamy  Sauce 
Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Creamed  Fish  in  Shells,  au  Gratin 

Rolls  Bread  and  Butter 

Pickled  Beetb 

Chocolate  Nut  Cake 

Tea 

SATURDAY 

Breakfast 
Oranges 
Calf's  Liver  and  Bacon 
French  Fried  Potatoes 
Toast 


Coffee 


Waffles,  Maple  Syrup 

Dinner 

Lamb-and-Tomato  Soup 

Hamburg  Steak 

Baked  Potatoes 

Buttered  Parsnips 

Apple  Pie,  Cheese 

Coffee 

Supper 

Potato-and-Komlet  Chowder 

Crackers 

Pickles 

Bread  and  Butter 

Stewed,  Evaporated  Peaches,  Thin 

Cookies 
Tea 


Cocoa 


Query  2139.  —  "Recipe  for  Caramels  made 
in  Mrs.  Hill's  School  last  summer;  the  ones 
wrapped  in  waxed  paper." 

Choice  Caramels 

1  pound  sugar  (2  cups)     i  pound  butter  (1  cup ) 
1  pound  glucose  (i  cup)     1  pint  cream 

Reserve  one  cup  of  the  cream;  put 
the  rest  of  the  ingredients  over  the  fire 
to  cook;  stir  until  boiling  throughout; 
then  gradually  stir  in  the  rest  of  the 
cream.  Let  boil,  stirring  each  three  or 
four  minutes,  until  the  thermometer 
registers  250  degrees  F.  (pretty-firm 
''hard  ball")  Stir  in  one  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  extract  and  turn  into  two 
brick-shaped  bread  pans,  carefully  but- 
tered. The  candy  should  make  sheets 
about  three-fourths  an  inch  thick. 
When  nearly  cold  cut  in  cubes.  The 
recipe  is  written  for  glucose;  when  using 
**Karo"  or  other  similar  syrup  the  quan- 
tity should  be  increased  to  nearly  a 
full  cup. ^ 

Query  2140. —  "When  grapefruit,  cut  in 
halves  and  served  in  its  own  shell-half,  each  sec- 
tion of  pulp  carefully  loosened  from  the  mem- 
l)rane,  is  served  as  a  first  course  at  luncheon  or 
dinner,  are  finger  bowls  used?" 

Serving  Grapefruit  at  Dinner 

There  are  no  hard-and-fast  rules  for 
table  service.  If  a  finger  bowl  after 
eating  grapefruit  would  add  to  your 
comfort  or  to  that  of  any  guest,  use 


J 


ADVERTISE9ENTS 


Buy  advertiied  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitulea 


634 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


them  by  all  means.  At  the  same  time, 
if  the  ptilp  of  the  fruit  be  carefully 
loosened  so  that  it  may  be  easily  lifted 
with  the  spoon,  it  would  not  seem  neces- 
sary to  bring  on  finger  bowls  at  this 
stage  of  the  meal. 

Query  2141. —  "Recipe  for  Molasses  Dough- 
nuts; did  not  try  the  recipe  given  in  the  Novem- 
ber number  of  the  magazine  because  it  did  not 
sound  right." 

Molasses  Doughnuts 

The  recipe  for  malasses  doughnuts 
referred  to  is  the  only  one  at  hand.  We 
see  nothing  wrong  with  this  recipe. 
The  doughnuts  are  not  rich,  but,  if  the 
milk  be  tmskimmed,  the  doughnuts 
are  not  tough;  a  second  yolk  of  egg  or 
a  teaspoonful  of  shortening  might  be 
added.  The  milk  must  be  thick  and 
sour. 


Query  2142. —  "If  Viscogen  be  added  to  con- 
densed or  evaporated  milk,  can  the  milk  be  then 
whipped  to  the  stiff  consistency  of  a  double  cream 
when  whipped?" 

Whipping  Condensed  Milk 

We  are  imable  to  say .  whether  the 
use  of  viscogen  would  enable  one  to 
whip  condensed  or  evaporated  milk  in 
the  same  manner  as  cream  is  whipped. 
Probably  the  milk  could  be  put  into  a 
condition  for  use  in  Bavarian  creams, 
or  as  a  garnish  for  desserts,  but  we 
doubt  if  it  could  be  made  firm  enough 
to  hold  its  shape  for  use  with  pastry 
bag  and  tube. 

Query  2143. —  "Recipe  for  Boston  Brown 
Bread." 

Boston  Brown  Bread 


1  cup  rye  meal 

1  cup  corn  meal 
1  cup  flour  (either 

white  or  whole  wheat) 
1  teaspoonful  salt 


2  level  teaspoonfuls 
soda 

}  cup  molasses 

2  cups  thick  sour  milk 

1  cup  raisins,  if  de- 
sired 


Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients. 
Crush  and  sift  the  soda  before  measur- 
ing, then  sift  into  the  other  dry  ingred- 
ients. Return  the  bran  (freed  of  any 
refuse)  to  the  ingedients  that  have 
passed  through  the  sieve;  add  the  other 


ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly;  turn 
into  two  well-buttered  molds  (pound 
size  empty  baking-powder  boxes  are 
convenient)  and  steam  three  hours. 
Use  cold  water  to  fill  the  steamer,  and 
the  mixture  will  have  opportunity  to 
rise  before  starting  to  cook.  Replenish 
with  boiling  water.  The  water  should 
boil  continuously  for  two  hours.  Set 
to  cook  with  all  the  water  the  steamer 
will  allow;  the  supply  will  not  need  to 
be  replenished  during  the  cooking. 
The  bread  is  at  its  best  when  the  milk 
is  thick  and  contains  some  creatn. 


aise. 


Query  2144. —  "Recipe  for  Macaroni  Milan- 


Macaroni  Milanaise 


Cook  three-fourths  a  cup  of  maca- 
roni, broken  in  pieces  one  inch  in  length, 
in  rapidly-boiliiig,  salted  water  imtil 
tender;  replenishing  with  boiling  water 
as  needed.  Drain,  rinse  in  cold  water 
and  drain  again.  Cook  half  an  onion, 
cut  in  -slices,  and  half  a  green  or  red 
pepper,  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter 
until  lightly  browned;  add  about  a 
cup  and  a  half  of  tomato  and  let  sim- 
mer imtil  well  reduced.  Press  through 
a  sieve.  There  should  be  a  generous 
cup  of  the  pulp.  Make  a  sauce  of  two 
tablespoonfuls,  each,  of  butter  and 
flour,  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  the  prepared  tomato;  add  half 
a  cup  or  more  of  grated  cheese.  When 
the  cheese  is  melted,  pour  the  sauce 
over  the  cooked  macaroni  and  lift  with 
two  forks,  to  mix  together  thoroughly. 
Let  stand  over  hot  water  to  become 
very  hot.  Sprinkle  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  fine-chopped  parsley.  When  con- 
venient fine-chooped  or  diced  ham  or 
pickled  tongue  may  be  mixed  through  ' 
the  dish,  or  broth  may  replace  a  part  of 
the  tomato  pur6e. 


SUERY  2145. —  "Recipe  for  Squabs  en  Cass- 
B." 

Squabs  en  Casserole 

Leave   the   squabs   whole   or  cut  in 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


A  GOOD  COOK  AND 
PURE  MUSTARD 

Cbd  make  the  d>e«pei  cnta  of  meat  just  as  deeir- 
able  as  the  moat  ezpeUHive.  Gorenimeiit  experts 
assert  that  cheap  meat  Is  jnst  as  Dutiitloiu  as 
cboicci  the  onlj  drawback  being  that  mote  atten- 
tion is  needed  to  bring  out  Its  flavor.  But  you 
must  use  good  pure  mustard. 

Bro«n  K  pot  rout  nicely  :  tben  let  It  ilmmiir  iIovIt  In 
■  lilt ■- ■■- "- —  ' 


bedBlislitedwitbit. 

Stlckne;  A  Poor's 
OthHT  Prodaots  are  : 
Fepper,  Cinn.mon.  aorcs. 
GInier.  Mace,  Pimentn. 
San,  S-iTorr,  Uarjoran.. 
CeferrSalt,  Cnrrr  Powder. 
Paprika.  Tapioca,  Nutmec. 


Allsi 


Mixed  Spice 
Turn     ■       - 


..     Wholi 
«b.  Spice 


.    Thvm. 


ia(  and  PlaTorinc  Eitrncti. 

STICKNEY  &  POOR  SPICE  CO. 

184  Stale  St.,  Boston 


jfJL 


## 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


636 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


halves  through  the  breast  and  back. 
Wash  and  wipe,  then  roll  in  flour  and 
saut6  in  clarified  butter  or  salt-pork 
fat,  first  on  one  side  and  then  on  the 
other,  to  a  golden  brown  color.  Set 
into  a  casserole,  pour  in  veal  broth  just 
to  cover  the  squab.  Asd  for  each 
squal  two  olives,  pared  round  and  round 
from  the  stone.  Cover  the  dish  and 
let  cook  very  gently  until  the  squabs 
are  nearly  done.  Add  a  cup  or  more 
of  green  peas,  salt  and  black  pepper  as 
needed,  and  a  little  more  broth  if  neces- 
sary and  let  cook  until  the  peas  are 
done.  Serve  from  the  dish.  For  a 
more  elaborate  dish,  add  quarters  of . 
new  carrots  carefully  scraped  and 
washed,  with  the  peas.  Or  add  one 
or  two  peeled  mushroom  caps,  cooked 
three  minutes  in  butter,  ten  minutes 
after  adding  the  peas.  Pigeons  may  be 
cooked  in  the  same  way,  but  often  take 
four  hotu^'  cooking.  Squabs  will  cook 
in  from  half  to  a  full  hour. 

Query  2146. —  "Recipe  for  Whipped  Cream 
Cake." 

Whipped  Cream  Cake 

Make  a  sponge  cake  of  five  eggs,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour  and  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Bake  in  layers.  Beat  one  pint  of  double 
cream,  half  a  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla  until  firm.  Use 
this  between  the  layers  and  on  the 
outside  of  the  cake.  Consult  an  up- 
to-date  cook  book  for  the  mixing  of  the 
sponge  cake,or  see  answer  to  Query  2106 
in  January  number  of  this  magazine. 

Whipped  Cream  Cake  No.  2 


CAKE 
1     cup    sifted     sponge 

cake  crumbs 
}  cup       fine-choped* 

blanched  almonds 
5  eggs 
1  cup  su^ar 
Grated  nnd  1  lemon 


FILLING 

i  cup  milk 

1 1   teaspoonfuls  corn- 
starch 
i  teaspoonful  salt 

2  tablespoonfuls  sugar 

1  egg-yolk 

1  teablspoonful  sugar 

\  tea5p<x>nful  vanilla 


COVERING 
1  pint  cream  |  i  cup  sugar 

i  teaspoonful  vanilla 


The  sponge  cake  crumbs  should  be 
dry;  use  these  and  the  almonds  as 
flour  in  making,with  the  other  ingredieDts 
a  sponge  cake.  Bake  in  two  layers. 
To  make  the  filling,  scald  the  milk, 
mix  the  cornstarch,  salt  and  sugar  and 
sitr  into  the  milk;  stir  until  the  miatuie 
thickens,  cover  and  let  cook  two  imn- 
utes;  beat  the  yolk,  add  the  sugar  and 
stir  into  the  hot  mixture;  when  "set" 
and  cool  a  little  add  the  vanilla  and 
use.  Beat  the  cream,  sugar  and  van- 
illa till  firm;  spread  a  little  over  the  out- 
side of  the  cake,  then  pipe  on  the.  rest. 
Let  stand  in  a  cool  place  half  an  hour 
or  longer  before  serving. 

Query  2147. —  "Is  Brown  Sugar  ever  adul- 
terated, and  if  so  with  what?" 

Adulteration  of  Brown  Sugar 

We  think  it  extremely  doubtful  that 
brown  sugar  is  adulterated.  It  is  not 
as  highly  refined  as  white  sugar.  For 
this  reason,  probably,  it  is  almost  im- 
possible to  boil  brown  sugar  and  milk 
together  without  having  the  milk  sep 
arate.  The  substance  that  then  cHngs 
to  the  bottom  of  the  dish  is  largely  the 
solid  portions  of  the  milk. 

QiTBRY  2148.—  ''Why  is  salt  added  to 
tables  after  they  have  been  boiling  ten  mini 

Salt  in  Boiling  Vegetables 

The  use  of  salt  in  cooking  vegetables 
is  worked  out  with  much  care  tinder 
the  cooking  of  vegetables  in  ''Cooking 
for  Two".  Briefly  all  fresh  vegetables 
are  set  to  cook  in  boiling  water.  In 
general  salt  should  be  added  to  the 
water  in  which  all  vegetables  except 
those  containing  much  cellulose  (as 
tiuTiips  and  parsnips)  are  set  to  cook. 
We  see  no  good  reason  why  the  addition 
of  salt  should  be  delayed  ten  minutes. 

Sign-painter:  Now,  Missus  Johnstng, 
what  does  you  want  puf  on  this  3rer 
sign?"  Missus  Johnsing  (afrer  a  mo- 
ment of  deep  thought):  "I  guess  'Goin' 
out  scrubbin'  done  in  here  will  do." — 
Life. 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


tuy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  si 


■■■■■:';i-*|all!|"-'i" 


nuiiiiiiiiim'^ 


i"B.ii"i-:ii-'iiii.»r:>:i.i- 


B 


C^ 


ool^ 


;b:"b'ii"i"i«">*i-'i' 

l."i*i:!ah:a"»a.iti"i 


The  Art  of  Living  Long.  By  LuiGi* 
CoRNARo.  Cloth.  Price  $2.00. 
Milwaukee:  William  F.  Butler. 

This  is  a  curious  and  remarkable  book 
of  a  remarkable  mian,  —  the  celebrated 
Venetian  Centenarian.  It  contains  the 
Treatise  of  Comaro  on  the  Art  of  Living 
Long,  with  illuminating  essays  by  Joseph 
Addison,  Lord  Bacon,  and  Sir  William 
Tempte.  Comaro's  rules  of  living  are 
based  on  ''temperance  in  eating  and 
drinking."  These  rules  remain  tuiim- 
peachably  correct,  and  in  the  future 
can  only  be  elaborated  and  perfected. 

This  book,  containing  a  minute  ac- 
count of  his  method  of  living  —  a  work 
he  finished  at  the  age  of  ninety-five  — 
has  been  translated  into  all  ctiltivated 
languages,  and  will  ever  be  estimated  as 
a  classic  and  a  standard.  He  is  the  only 
man  who,  at  the  end  of  a  century,  ever 
wrote  —  was  ever  able  to  write  —  a 
statement,  authoritative  because  based 
upon  experience,  of  the  means  by  which 
others  could  enjoy  the  tmspeakable 
delights  of  a  long  life  of  iminterrupted, 
perfect  health.  There  is  ample  warrant 
for  this  statement:  "No  man  or  woman 
ever  fails  to  enjoy  physical  happiness, 
whose  life  is  constantly  ordered  in  ac- 
cordance with  Comaro's  teachings." 
To-day  thinking  men  and  women  every- 
where are  trying  to  conform  more  and 
more  to  Comaro's  salutary  rules  for 
attainment  and  preservation  of  health. 

*'  Health  and  Longevity  Through  Rational 

Diet,''    By  Dr.    Arnold    Lorand. 

Price,    $2.50    net.       Philadelphia: 

F.  A.  Davis  Company. 

This  is  an  important  and  valuable 

work.     The  subject,  it  may  be  noted, 

is  equivalent,  at  least,  to  that  of  Cor- 

naro,  who  wrote  three  hundred  years 


ago,  but  it  is  here  treated  in  a  thoroughly 
scientific  manner  by  one  who  is  versed 
in  modem  investigation  and  research. 

The  book  is  translated  from  the  original 
German.  The  author  is  a  noted  prac- 
titioner at  the  world's  oldest  health 
resort,  Carlsbad.  The  book  is  free  from 
the  fads  which  render  so  many  books, 
written  on  the  subject  for  the  laity, 
harmful.  The  highest  scientific  auth- 
orities have  been  consulted  and  their 
researches  made  comprehensible  to  the 
non-professional.  Diet  in  relation  to 
health  is  carefully  treated  from  ever>' 
point  of  view  and  made  intelligible. 
Certainly,  if  proper  nutrition  is  essential 
to  health,  a  correct  knowledge  of  food 
values  is  indispensable.  For  mothers, 
housekeepers,  everyone  interested  at  all 
in  dietetics,  this  volume  provides  most, 
timely  and  valuable  instruction. 

For  the  general  reader  we  are  aware 
of  nothing  on  the  subject  of  diet  supe- 
rior to  this  work.  Scientific  in  treat- 
ment, the  practical  experience  of  the 
author  renders  the  contents  readable 
even  to  the  point  of  interest.  We  find 
here  a  fund  of  information — a  work  of 
constant  value. 


REFRIGERATORS-ICE  BOXES 

and  all  places  where  meats  and  f  oodt 

are  kept  should  be  regularly  disiiifect»i 

and  purified  by  using 

Plaf  te  Chlorides. 

TbeOdorlessDiBiiMB^GtBBL 

Destroys  germs  and  foul  odors,  does  not 
permeate  the  food. 

Safm,  Efficient  and  Ecanonucai.   Soid  Evmvyufhmrt 


HENRY   B.   PLATT 
A2  Cliff  8tr«ttt.  Nttw  York  City,  N.  Y. 


638 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


"PhtlegraphU    rtfroduetien    »/  tht  famous  Chautauqua  yimjirdi  taken  fnm  the  tef  ef  «ur  facttrj. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


The  New  Alinement  of  Life.  By  Ralph 
Waldo  Trine.  $1.25  net.  New 
York:  Dodge  Publishing  Company. 
Of  this  book  a  late  reviewer  says: 
"Every  reader  familiar  with  Mr,  Trine's 
works  will  ask  at  once,  how  does  "The 
New  Alinement  of  Life"  compare  with 
"In  Tune  with  the  Infinite?"  To  those 
who  fell  under  the  spell  of  the  earlier 
work  the  memory  of  its  power  remains 
a  cherished  possession.  The  appeal  of 
the  book  was  unique.  It  caught  up  and 
carried  on  the  Emerson  tradition  when 
that  tradition  needed  most  to  be  carried 
on.  People  engrossed  in  scientific  dis- 
coveries and- commercial  expansion  were 
on  the  point  of  forgetting  that  there 
might  be  a  spiritual  side  to  life.  Mr. 
Trine  performed  a  remarkable  service 
in  insisting  on  the  claims  of  the  spirit 
in  man.  On  this  account,  it  is  hardly 
just  to  compare  the  two  books.  Scien- 
tific discoveries  have  altered  many  of 
our  points  of  view,. and  have  in  tbem- 


Buy  advertised  Goods  — 


selves  done  much  to  spiritualize  even  our 
material  life  and  its  problems.  On  this 
account  the  great  work  to  be  done  to-day 
is  to  "aline"  our  life  with  the  new  worid 
as  we  sense  it,  and  to  show  how  this 
alinement  must  proceed  is  the  task  Mr, 
Trine  set  himself  in  the  present  volume. 
His  aim  he  accomplishes  in  a  most 
efficient  way,  and  his  latest  work  to-day 
must  be  fully  as  valuable  as  that  earlier 

The  content  of  this  book  is  in  keeping 
with  the  thought  of  the  day.  If  there 
be  gain  in  knowledge  of  truth,  we  must 
accept  it.  Civilization  means  looking 
forward  not  backward.  A  philosophy 
of  life  is  an  important  matter;  what  is 
your  philosophy?  Every  chapter  in 
this  book  is  suggestive  of  thought  and 
indicative  of  how  much  of  conduct  and 
character  is  dependent  on  our  ways  of 
thinking.  Thoughts  are  self-controlled 
and  formed  into  habits.  As  we  think,  so 
we  become.  To  many  an  inquirer  of  a 
philosophy  of  life,  this  book  will  be 
helpful. 

Exercises  for  Women.  By  Florbkce 
Bolton,  A.  B.  Cloth.  12ino. 
Illustrated.  Price,  $1.00  net.  Bv 
maU,  $1.10.  New  York:  Funk 
&  Wagnalls  Company. 

The  book  should  be  useful  to  Physi- 
ctans  in  prescribing  exercises  for  their 
patients,  to  teachers  of  gymnastics  for 
class  and  private  work,  to  the  college 
woman  who  has  left  gymnasium  days 
behind,  and  to  women  everywhere  who 
desire  physical  grace  and  power  and  the 
mental  satisfaction  consequent  upon 
both. 

The  book  contains  helpful  suggestions 
on  matters  directly  and  indirectly  re- 
lated to  exercise  and  development,  and 
an  appendix  with  a  wider  range  of  work, 
briefly  tabulated,  for  the  use  of  teachers. 
It  contains  numerous  illustrations  giving 
details  for  mat  exercises. 

Evidently  this  manual  of  physical  ei- 
ercise  has  been  thoughtfully  planned  out 
and  prepared  by  a  teacher  of  culture 

do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Send  your  Name  and 
Address  TO -DAT  to 


rfept.  H-7  — The  Mcllhenny  Co., 
Drexel  Building,  Philadelphia,  Pa., 
and  we  will  send  you  a  free  copy 
of  Mrs.  Rorer's  famous  new  book 
of  recipes.  It  will  help  you  to  a 
better  knowledge  of  seasoning  and 
will  probably  add  some  new  and 
unique  dishes  to  your  culinary 
repertoire. 

Get  a  bottle  of  Mcllhenny's 
Tabasco  Sauce  at  your  Grocer's. 
Use  it  instead  of  cayenne  or  black 
pepper  for  all  seasoning  both  in 
the  kitchen  and  on  the  dining 
room  table.  You'll  find  folks  com- 
menting upon  the  tastiness  and 
delicious  flavor  of  all  your  cooking. 


MclLHENNY'S 

TABASCO 

3AUCE 


Buy  advertised  Gixxlg  —  do  not  accept  tubstitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


■■■■    ^     .-l^,.- 

The  breakfast  beverage 

You  will  find  that  Welch's  fits  in 
fine  as  the  fruit  course  at  breakfast, 
and  it  is  a  good  way  to  start  the  day, 
as  the  Welch  habit  is  a  health  habit. 

Welch's 

"rW*    JVati<nmai    2>rin/t' 

— OWET  (he  morning  e«re«l,  "AkIki"  or  puffed 
gnini.  ii  dclidoui;  ui  excdkBii  ubstiuie  for 
cream  4nd  more  e&tily  digened 
The  very  fnat  Concord  B>'ape«i  preiied  and 
botded  in  ihe  omo,  luiituy  Welch  way,  give 
you  Nature*!  bcM  flavor  ukI  quality  AT  in 
beiL     Order  ■  cax  today. 

Do  more  than  ask  for  "Grape  Juice" 
-say  WELCH'S  and  GET  IT! 

A  booUet  lugseKing  many  uki  For  Welch'i 


tion  the  devoted  mothers  who  spend 
so  much  of  their  lives  on  uncomfortaWe 
camp-stools  in  the  parking  on  upper 
Broadway,  in  vacant  lots  and  any 
place  where  a  patch  of  green  or  a.  little 
space  presents  room  enough  for  a  baby- 
carriage  and  its  occupant. 

"Shall  I  have  to  sit  on  a  camp-stool 
all  day  and  embroider  or  read  maga- 
zines," I  asked  myself,  "so  my  baby 
can  get  the  fresh  air  he  should  have?" 

Then,  having  full  knowledge  of  my 
circumstances,  I  began  a  close  inspec- 
tion of  my  environment.  Just  outside 
the  south  window  of  my  bed-room  was 
a  big  fire-escape,  and,  fortunately,  the 
hole  was  outside  my  next-door  neighbor's 
window.  Here  was  fresh  air  a  plenty, 
and  much  cleaner  air  than  that  of  the 
dusty  streets.  Here,  top,  was  sun- 
shine and  quiet,  and  here  my  baby, 
from  his  fourth  week  until  his  four- 
teenth month  —  that  being  his  present 
mattu-e  age  —  has  spent  much  of  his 
time. 

He  was  an  October  baby,  and  all 
winter,  even  on  the  coldest  days,  he 
slept  in  his  basket  on  the  smmy  fire- 
escape,  dressed  in  an  eider-down  robe, 
with  the  head  covering  attached,  cov- 
ered warmly  and  protected  by  an  en- 
ormous umbrella.  And  right  here,  let 
me  tell  any  one  who  wishes  to  profit  by 
my  example  to  purchase  the  cheapest 
tmibrella  she  can  find.  They  are  made 
for  protection  from  the  elanents,  but 
none  of  them  will  stnad  for  long  cod- 
tintial  exposure  to  the  weather.  They 
spUt,  ctu*!  up,  expose  their  ribs  and  dis- 
card their  bandies,  and  do  all  kinds  of 
unexpected  things,  after  being  anchored 
to  a  baby-basket  for  a  couple  of  months. 

When  the  weather  became  warm,  my 
husband  made  an  awning  of  green  denim, 
which  worked  on  a  pulley  and  pro- 
tected the  baby  from  the  hot  sun,  but 
I  f otud  that  during  the  summer  months 
the  heat  on  the  metal  fire-escape  was 
too  great  in  the  afternoon,  so  our  son 
had  his  morning  nap  there  and  his 
afternoon  nap  inside  —  after  which  he 
was  taken  to  the  park. . 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  •ubttitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Gooda  —  do  not  accept  mibititutci 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Buy  advertiwd  <.kxxls  —  do  not  accept  lubititutet 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


It's  economy 

to  drink 
BENSDORP'S 

Alway*  In*  Yellow  Wimqwr 
Skmpla  on  RaqoMt 

SIEFBEN  L  BUnZTT  CO.,  Ii>*art« 


There   is    more 

food  nourUhment 

in  &  can  of 

BENSDORP'S 

Cocoa  than  in  a 

like   amount    of 

meat  or  flour. 


A  Perfect  Knife  for  Grape  Fruit  '"1^"^^^'^?^" 

The  bUda  of  thli  knife  U  made  from  the  flnert  cutlerj  steel,  finely  tempered,  cnrred  Joat  to  the 
Tight  Angle  >nd  ground  to  *  Tery  keen  edge,  will  remoTe  the  center,  <ait  cleeoly  mA  quickly  ■roand 
tiie  edge  uid  divide  tbe  fruit  into  Kgmenta  ready  for  eating. 

Tbatcatnraof  thsblmdr  l«  tharoand  end  whicb  prereptacatUncthnnwb  Iba  outer  ikln.     A  crap*  fndt  knife 


a  nccMiitr  M  >rape  fiuit  are  p-DWinc  M  Tivldlr  in  popnluitr  H 

FerSaUbfaaOMUn.    Friet  SO  imU  Mdi.    Ifmaf  teiBidcayamrdtaIin,wfam 
rtalptatprtet   a  bdft  wiU  H  ttm  faaf  aMttu  potpaii  ty  »t  MaKmfaettnr. 


THE  EMPIRE  KNIFE  CO. 


Winsted,  Conn. 


FOR  THE  WOMAN  WHO  WANTS  6000  THINGS 

"SATURN" 

CLOTHESUNE  REEL 

A   miod  Stcd  Ball  ~  dint 

proof,  akkla  plated  —  wai- 
rutcd  40  h.  line,  teited  to  ISO 
lb*.  — takei  pteMot  doUtapin. 
Uie    oui-dooi    €>T      iD-dooi. 


LADD  MIXER 

A  ipeciallr  made  clear.  Clan  Um, 
eonlaJaJBt  Ladtl  Baattr,  home  nze, 
wUch  M  reaonbie  tor  u»e  outtide^  Top 
highly  pickled  and  polalifj.  Bfallmealu 
the  belt  'articla  yet  made.  BeaulituI  and 
attndiTe.    We  warrant  it  uvei  egm,     B* 


Hansi  anywhere.  I  wo 
•preadiDB  ringt  PoaAnfy  the 
bat  made  at  any   price.     By 


parcel  port  for  $1.60. 

N«r-ItMd|rJartHiw.  E*«rr  woman  wanla  thMa.  PbaMWllU. 

UNITED  ROYALTIES  CORPORATION,  1133  G  Broadway,  New  York. 

Buy  advertised  Goods  — -  do  not  accept  subatitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


The  New 


CIEStim 


Can  be  "Made 


I  Jitfy" 


With  the  aid  of  fruit,  berries,  whipped 
cream,  etc.,  the  practical  housewife  can 
serve  Nesnah  in  an  endlesa  variety  of 
dain^  and  attractive  forms. 


You  amply  dissoh^  it  in  milk  or  cream, 
let  stand  a  few  moments,  and  you  have, 
ready  to  serve,  a  most  exquisite  dessert. 

It  is  the  one  lirtj,  Mkiem  fwd-dMNii 
Not  to  be  confounded  with  gelatine  prep- 
aratitms. 

NINE  FLAVORS 


VANILLA 

CHOCOLATE 

ORAHOE 

LEMON 


PISTACHIO 
■ASrBBRXY 
MArLB 


lOc. 


Package 

At  AlLGroMT. 

Sample  aent  free 
— full-size  package 
on  receipt  of  10 
Cents.  State  choice 
of  davor. 

JVopcred  bir 

The  Junket  Folks' 


Stuffed  Onion  and  E^-Plant 
Parboil  the  onions  or  eggj^ant  until 
suitable  for  stuffing,  and  then  cut  out 
the  center  and  fill  with  the  cheese  and 
egg-mixture  given  above  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  bake.  In  both  cases  mix  tbt 
center  part  that  is  scooped  out  with  the 
cheese  and  raw  egg.  Finish  by  baking 
.with  buttered  crumbs  on  top. 

Raviolis 

Make  a  needle  dough  and  dot  it  evenly 
with  the  foregoing  spinach,  cheese  and 
egg  mixture.  Cover  with  another  piec« 
of  dough  rolled  out  well,  then  with  a 
glass  cut  out  each  ravioli.  Have  some 
chicken  broth  boiling  and  drop  the 
raviolis  in,  one  by  one,  like  dumplings, 
and  cook  for  half  an  hour  .boiling  quickly. 
In  the  meantime  one  must  have  some 
gravy  from  a  pot  roast  of  be^.  Put 
about  a  pound  and  half  of  beef  in  a  pot 
with  some  suet,  and  add  a  little  water, 
but  not  to  cover  it;  add  garlic  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  the  thick  tomato  paste 
found  in  all  Italian  groceries;  the  paste 
must  be  dissolved  in  a  Uttle  water,  it 
is  caller  Pomidoro,  and  is  very  inex- 
pensive and  useful  for  tomato  soup,  or 
sauce  for  fishballs,  or  chops,  etc. 

When  the  roast  is  cooked  and  you 
havearich  thick  gravy  from  it,  and  your 
raviolis  are  done,  you  dish  them  on  a 
hot  platter  covered  with  grated  cheese: 
lift  the  raviolis,  one  by  one,  in  a  per- 
forated ladle  so  as  to  drain  them  from 
the  broth.  Lay  a  spoonful  of  the  trick 
beef  gravy  on  each  and  sprinkle  grated 
cheese  over.  On  this  lay  another  row 
of  raviolis  and  "repeat  the  gravy  and 
cheese,  and  continue  the  layers  of 
raviolis,  gravy  and  cheese  tintil  all 
are  dished.     ' 

The  beef  may  be  used  another  day  in 
any  preferred  way;  chicken  broth  can 
easily  be  made  in  the  foreign  quarter 
of  our  large  cities  since  parts  of  a 
chicken  may  be  bought,  a  leg,  wing,  or 
even  a  liver. 

Dried  mushrooms  are  also  on  sale  at 
neat  Italian  groceries;  a  quarter  of  a 
poimd  costs  about  fifteen  cents.     These 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  wibstitutM 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


mushrooms,  soaked  and  a.dded  to  roast 
beef  gravy,  make  an  excellent  sauce  for 
raviolis. 

Fritto 

A  very  hearty  fritto  can  be  made 
from  the  spinach,  cheese  and  egg  com- 
bination used  for  stuffing  meat,  only 
for  the  stuffing  but  a  small  quantity 
of  spinach  is  used,  perhaps  one-fourth 
a  peck  would  be  enough  to  purchase. 
For  a  fritto  take  a  lai^e  quantity  of  this 
filling,  enough  to  fill  a  frying  pan.  Fry 
it  in  olive  oil.  When  well  cooked  on 
one  side  hold  a  big  plate  down  over  the 
frying  pan  and  invert  the  fritto  upon  it 
and  return  it  the  other  side  down,  to 
cook  on  that  side.  This  makes  an 
excellent  hearty  luncheon  dish.    j.  d.  c. 

Four  miners  in  West  Virginia,  who 
had  established  records  in  the  appetite 
line,  sighed  with  contentment  and  agreed 
that  the  most  appetizing  and  satisfac- 
tory meal  they  had  ever  eaten  was  one 
prepared  for  them  by  a  cooking  teacher 
at  a  cost  of  forty-two  cents.  The  meal 
consisted  of  barley  soup,  six  cents; 
brown  stew  (meat,  etc.),  twenty-three 
cents;  dumplings,  five  cents;  onions, 
parsley  and  seasonings,  three  cents; 
fruit-tapioca  pudding,  five  cents. 

VAKTn    Fo.  POCc  SifaA 


/ICi/Vcy.   t-MPIRr  Bior,.  Din.'.    ,:■.. 


Buy  advertised  Gooda  —  do  oot  accept  aubrtitutc* 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


There  are  scores  of  delight- 
ful ways  to  serve 


Komlei  IS  not  canned  corn,  but 

the  milk  of  young,  green  com  of  extra  I 
fine  flavor. 

By  a  special  process  this  milk  is  entracled, 
then  boiled  down  and  coaceotrated,  pro- 
ducing an  essence  of  corn  that  Roes  a  long  I 
way  and  afTordsa  most  delicious  and  noui 
ishing  natural  food  material.  There  are  n 
hulls  or  indigestible  solids  in  Komlet.  Iti_ 
assimilated  by  delicate  invalids  and  affords  I 
delightful  variety  to  the  home  table. 


mua  ten  large  ot  twei^  cup-B 


413HDnnRa^ 


rke  NitioBal  TniuDf  Sckool  rf  ih*  T»f  Wm«'i 

:hrutiM  AmmUHb  offer*  >  vndiut*  caotm  rrem  Jnlr  U 
aAocuiitu.llU,toTqiui)iflc4tnDcbruondiT*clanudb(nu« 
ccrcUrln.iDCliidiiicwcinTMaDd  damoDftckttoni  on  Inatlta- 
jon^  hoiuckMiiliic  uid  cwkoTT,  nntcltian.  cafaUria  nun- 
iccmcnt,  BIbIa  (tndir  and  tba  AiKclatloB  DorenianL  At- 
nctiTa  new  bDDdlnff  witb  madcTD  conranianeai.  For  Tata, 
clwdalaa,  ate,  addreai  n, 

5BCIBTAIUL  DEFARTHeNT 

ta  AiMrf  lb*  TiA  Or 


LESSONS  IN  COOKING  ETiTO: 

ini,  Spniil  Altttk*.  tie     BsoiHl  III  nunrfDaflrithnina.  W>  n.. 


In  two  forms 
POWDER 

or 

CREAM 


ELECTRO 
SILICON 


This  famous  Silver  Polish  is  the  only 
one  that  has  stood  the  test  of  nearly  haU 
a  Century.  Careful  housekeepers  every- 
where say  it  is  the  best  for  cleaning  and 
polishing  silver  and  all  fine  metals  without 
scratching  or  marring.     Send  address  iot 

FREE    SAMPLE 

Or  Uc.  fat  full  aiiad  box  Powder  postpaid. 

Or  uc.  [or  M  P^dI  Jar  Cream 
TbaElKtTDaHeoD  Co.,  M  CJUT Street.  NewYorl 
At  Orac«ra  and  Drn^lsla 


Better  bread  and  m»e  tX  it— that 
it  a  ffood  mod«m  ideaL 

Fleischmann's  Yeast 

bdpt  it  to  come  true.  It  make*  H 
eatr  to  make  sood  bread.  Ournew 
Recipe  Book  telli  how. 


The  Fleischmann  Company 

Row  Twk  CUr 


fur  it  tells  imoMd lately  whether  or  iwt  to  caD 
the   doctor.  A    Tytot   Uivr  tbemtoinetei 

'    ""    *  mily  preventsdanderof  contagion, 
sell    TVcoi  Fever  Tbei 


Moat  dealers  si 


Buy -advertised  Goods  —  do  not  atxept  subatitutea 


THE  BOSTON  COCKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Greatest  Subscription  Offer  of  the  Season 

The  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  magaziDehu  m«le  tpeatd  mkI  unimul  urangementnn4 
the  publnbeis  w^Mteby  we  ate  enabled  to  offer  thi»  enlire  caahiiuhoa  of  fouryiaictd  magazkwi 

Pictorial  Review,  moothly,    (faihioiu).   one   year.   $1.00      f      ALL     ONE 
Modem  Piidla.         "       (needlcwMi).  "        "  1.00      I     _,_  .  _    c'rtn 

Lidic.*_WoiU. "_(^<^)*M}-...  "._"!_    1-00   <    YLAK  pOR 

$too  I     $2.85 

PICTORIAL  REVIEW  >  !«  "™« <^,  ««P«^  •-d  »" 

lc^p.g.^fu.«l,lui^  LAMES-  WORLD  .  p«- 

•dlhnwgfaoul— beoceiUDUM.  """I  P**  ™  wo»™  emr- 

It!   Uihiaa    «ge«     ue    fodr  whoc 

»OT«.<mll«i.T«.gcAncr.  otEZSn^recbA  Lm.. 


And  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE    1.00 
Total  tubtcnption  value  of  (bete  four  magauiei  $4.00 


THE  LAKES' WORLD 

{■  ■  tkoRW^lj'  practicd  aad  ilinittMeaW  dcmud  to  Cksi, 

i^-ta-dUe  HooKhoU  M^.  CO  ud  WMa  Color  Pial^ 

ma.  and  InM  of  enry  lubject  Staicitbg.  Pvroaapby.  Letflu 

of  iolaat  to  women  uid  (be  «r  WcmE,    B»A<.tiy    ■■•1  >>» 

borne.    Iti  boiuelioUl  drpwt.  like.     No  olber  magaiBe  pub- 

mcolt  ireM  Rood  «  ■  count  Uwt  iiiywboe  oeor  •■  bib^ 

■a DomotiG Scince.  Itariotia,  dsigqifot  all  lorta  oi  Fmc? 

Tana    and  cBlotwnBenta  (or  Woii   o(  ghn  jioa  M  bhj 

cbiUicn  alwaj*  pleaM  and  in.  idea*  (or  aiakin(  ilaw*i  ihca 

tool  and  at  tt»  lame  time  aocenariet.     w     MODERN 

cooMT  ■oma  iutructiaB  tbat  it  PRISCILLA. 

THE  LADIES- WORLD 

it  partiedafly  valuabk  to  the 
borne  gunner.     [teiuggaitioBi 


7K«  Bomttm  CoaliiMg 
School  Maw-xinm  yoa 
Imaio  aB  ahont. 

Send  (M  your  order  before  March  31at,   and  we  will  include,   without 
charge  the  Eight  Hardy  Ever-Blooming  Roae  Bu$hea  described  below. 

en  al  all  l^ok  Cardca 


EtoH«):-Sueh  beaulT 


KaiterlDC 


timoDieaiurinit  turoandonrhUf  inrbca  fnm   t 
Itp     Perfectly  baidT  in  all  kcUoiu  of  rhe  conntn 


roaei  for  open  irouiid  culture,  beini  perfectlr  1 

Un.  B.  ^  Cant:— A  beautirnl  roM  of  aplcndid  l>BMt  or 
K^*  di^'^™™  rf^MrmiM  'Jrf.  "^vSlSaWi  (w'Si'"  CLIHBEBS 

door  culture.  Ladr  Oodiva— A  new  cUmWin  roae.    Tlii»  nmt  a  ■ 

PearlDeaJardmelPearlortheOanleii):— Ricliiroldcn         lar  in  hibit  of  (rowtli  to  the  CriBuon  Ramblei.     Bio 
TtllDw,     orUn  (old  in  cut  flower  slom  for  "Uareclisl       Inc  In  ImmenBe  c1  iiterK  it  la  ■  iwautlfal  nkbt.    Ita  p 
Niel"  »  cloae  li  the  reaemblaiice.      Budi  of  immente       ii  moat  pleaalnf.  txlnfa  pale  flnl).  ttaeliffaleet  of  all 
■lie:  flowera  (lobular  and  veri'  rracraat.    Dark,  tbick.       pink  ramUen. 
ahiar  foliafe.  Tausendarhon  (Tbouannd  beaullea) — The  mwt  Ki 

Wellealerv  Clear  roae-pink.  reverie  oT  peti 
roae.  A  TteoroUB  (rower  and  free  bloomer,  v 
larae  doable  floweri. 

[F  YOU  ARE  ALREADY  A  SUBSCRIBER  to  mj  one  or  all  of  ikae  magazkei  rour  ubtavboa  wOl  beei- 
tended  (or  one  year  iiom  ihe  time  it  ii  now  due  lo  expire.  Theie  magazine*  will  be  tai.  all  to  one  adtkea)  or  Id 
•epaiale  addreua  ai  requeated.  Tlie  four  magazine),  eacb  one  yeai,  aiod  eight  roae  btoha.  all  lot  $2.BS.  if  jroar  oadct 
ii  recared  befote  March  3 1  at. 

ADDRESS  ALL  ORDERS  TO 

BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 

Buy  advertiaed  Goodi  —  do  Dot  accept  aubatitutea 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Domestic  Science 

Hotna- Study  Courae* 
Pood,   health,   hoiiMkecpinff,    clothliuc,    diUdren 
For  liomoniKkcn,  tou^n  UM  for 
wDU-p«ld  pofitioiu. 
•THE  PBOPBSSION  OF  HOUB-HAKING."  100 
Mga  bandbook,  FRBB.    BnUetiM  i  "Fan  Havb 
Soonvo,"  10  fwnti.    "Fooo  Valoh,"  10  coita. 
'  ^s  Vfto-OiT*  Horn,"  IS  cent*. 

0.  awioL  OF  mwE  Econncs,  HB  I.  m  u,  nncM 


MAGIC  COVER 

<Mte  Cover  for  Putiy  Board  ■nd  RolUns  PId;  cbamloUr 
rated  Bad  hrcienfc:  TKommetxIcd  by  Icadint  l«ch«3 
awUnc.    Br  mall.  Me. 

B.   F.  HACY 

■Mri)  M  F.  L  «UIH  &  n.,  Ikt  iMnl  IHcIm  Hm  !■  Im  (^iNi 
410  BoyUtoB  Str«*t.  Boston,  HaM. 


elELL-@ 


kr  Iwe  Ccdi  OTMll,  aNkw  _      .    . 

wm  kc  KBl  Ircc  M  all  wk*  HrrMc  h4  aUi  as  Itr  II. 

TIE  6EHESEE  PtME  FOOD  CO..  Lday ,  II.V.,  a^  BrMtekart.Ca«. 


WAS  JESUS  GOD? 


liuy  advertiaed  Goods  —  do  not  accept  sulMtitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


PREMIUMS 

Experience   has  shown  that  the  most  satisfactory   way  to 

enUu^e  the  subscription  list  ofThe  Boston  CookinK  School  Hagaxine  is  through  ib 
present  subscribers,  who,  personally,  can  vouch  for  the  value  of  the  publkbtiu 
To  make  it  an  object  for  subscribers  to  secure  new  subscribers,  we  ofier  the  fal- 
lowing premiums: 

CONDITIONS  t      Pmiilniiu  KK  not  Kiven  with  ■  anbaciiptlon  or  for  »  ranewsl,  bat  oalrn 
■  prmamt  subacriben,  fiw  HCiiring  and  meut^g  to  u«  imch  j^aij  nbaoip- 

tloiM  Kt  lljn  each.    The  nnmbH  of  atw  labaeriptioQa  required  to  secure  each  pryminm  ia  da^ 
Mated  b«low  tlM  deecriptloD  of  the  premium, 

TranaportBtiaii  ie  or  ■•  not  paid  aa  atated. 

Obi  FmIbmi  ar*  »umimr4  (svdi.Jul  nah  ■■  ara  Mid  at  Iha  battar  ilsraa,  ara  waU  wvMk  tka  §atm,mi 

hava  alns  mmlnnal  HtiWaadtM. 

SOMETHING  NEW 

At  vretf  aodal  fimeUon  bwe  tn  tbe  eaat  tiaf 
cakei  are  aerred,  bakod  Id  tiua  liko  tboM  ahowi 
In  the  lUaatiatiaa.  These  tin*  m«  bapoitedt 
beanUfiilly  made  from  reiy  heavy  tin,  and  ii* 
flrat-clau,  A-No.  I  la  crery  teapect. 

Here  la  one  Qood  Recipe  to  Try. 
POUND  CAKE  FOR  LITTL.B  TIHS. 
K  cup  butter 


)i  cup  msar 
8  egg  Toiki 
}i  table«poonfiil  brandf 


powder  (ic»el) 
Ji^  tettapooDfal  Btace 
«  egg  white* 


Put  ft  tittle  of  the  mixture  in  the  center  of  mi 
Uni  the  heat  of  tlie  oTcn  will  cause  It  to  nu  wd 
fUltbetiDa.  The  rcdpe  makes  about  sistr  Uttk 
cake*.     Spread  confectioner'i  iciog  on  a>e  top 

or  leare  pfain. 

Oneoftheietiiii,  baking  19  little  eokea  (itate  which  design  yon  wbh),  sent,  poa^taid,  for  twt 
(2)  new  subacriptiooa.     (Price  $1.29.) 


A  SET  OF  THREE   (3)   STEEL  DRAWN  MOULDS 

For  Jellies,  Paddlogs,  Custards, 
etc.*  etc. 

Are  so  shaped  that  the  conteuls  readily  coma 

out  in  perfect  condition. 
These  moulds  ordinarily  sell  for  3Sc.  pint  site, 
.  40c.  pint  and  a  half,  and  60c.  for  quart  siae. 
We  have  combinrd  the  three  aitea  ioto  a  set,  and 
will  Bend  a  set  (uther  nval  or  round  bnt  not 
assorted  shapes),  prepaid,  as  premium  for  one 
(I)  new  subscription.    Cash  price  Uc  prepaid. 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE,  BOSTON.   MASS. 

Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


PREMIUMS 


INDIVIDUAL  INITIAL  JELLY  MOULDS 

Senres  Eggs,  Fish  and  Meats  in  Aspic,  Coffee  and  Fruit  Jelly, 
Pudding  and  other  desserts  with  your  initial 
letter  raised  on  the  top.     Latest  and  daint- 
iest novelty  for  the  up-to-date  hostess. 

To  remove  jellv  take  a  needle  and  run 'iV' 
around  inside  of  mould,  then  immerse  in 
warm  water;  jelly  will  then  come  out  in 
perfect  condition. 

Be  the  first  in  your  town  to  have  these. 
You  cannot  purchase  them  at  the  stores. 

This  ahawt  the  jcUy  tuned  from  the  mould  This  sbowt  mould  (np-ddt  down) 

Set  of  six  (6),  any  initial,  sent,  postpaid,  for  one  (1)  new  subscription.    Price  ddc* 


MAYONNAISE  MIXER 

NICXEL  PLATED  WITH  WHITE  CHINA  BOWL 

With  this  mixer  you  can  make  an  excellent  mayonnaise  in  five  minutes. 
The  oil  is  added  automatically  drop  by  drop,  avoiding  all  danger  of 
curdling.  Sent,  prepaid,  for  three  (3)  new  subscriptions.  (Price  $l.7d) 


French    Boninit 

Knife  4  loch  Sue 

There  are  kite-hen  knives  and  kitchen  knives,  but 
this  is  the  best  of  them  all.  The  finest  steel, 
hand-made,  and  'hand  sharpened.  Will  last  a 
life  time.  Sent,  prepaid,  for  one  (1)  new  sub- 
scription.    (Price  60c«) 


POTATO  BALL  CUTTER 


For  cutting  balls  of  potatoes  or  other  vege- 
tables. The  best  of  its  kind.  Sent,  prepidd« 
for  one  (1)  new  subscription.     (Price  dOc.) 


APPLETON'S    COMPI^ETE    HOM£    I^IBRARY 


Appleton's  Prices,  $1.25  a  volume;  $5.00  for  the  set. 

The  Complete  Dressmaker  is  a  thorough  course  in 
sewing  and  the  cutting,  fitting  and  making  of  wearing 
apparel.  It  does  not  deal  with  styles  or  fashions  but  en- 
tirely ¥rith  th«  practical  knowledge  that  is  required.  This 
course  is  written  by  Mary  I.  Mclntyre,  Instructor  of 
Professional  Dressnmking  at  Pratt  Institute  in  Brooklyn. 

This  book  also  contains  a  full  course  in  Millinery  by 
Mme.  Ben-Yusuf,  Instructor  in  Millinery  at  Pratt  Institute. 

The  Complete  Beanty  Book  is  a  guide  to  health 
and  the  development  of  fine  personal  appearance,  charm 
and  winsomeness.  It  is  a  serious  book  free  from  all  quack- 
ery and  sentiment,  but  replete  with  every  direction  for 
acquiring  that  healUiy  and  pleasing  personal  appearance 
that  in  the  final  sense  constitutes  true  beauty. 

The  Complete  Home  is  a  handbook  on  the  art  of 
housekeeping  and  of  making  the  home  happy.  It  is  the 
most  practical  and  helpful  book  on  this  subject  ever  written 
and  will  be  found  to  contain  Fujrgestions  worth  far  more 
than  the  original  cost  of  the  whole  set. 

The  Complete  Hostess  is  a  guide  to  graceful  man- 
ners and  good  taste  in  all  social  matters,  brides  offermg 
innumerable  suggestions  for  home  entertainment  that  are  available  for  everyone. 

The  Complete  Home  Library  (4  volumes)  sent,  prepaid,  for  (4)  new  subscriptions.  (Price  $3.) 

THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL   MAGAZINE.  BOSTON.  MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

655 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Buy  advertised  Gooda  —  do  not  accept  subMitutes 


"Choisa" 
Ceylon  Tea 


tib. 

Ciiibhn 
NGnh 

1-2  lb. 

Cuiittin 
35  Cull 


Pure 

Rich 

FnfranI 


Packed  in  Parchment-lined 

One  pound  and  half-pound  Canisters 

fF«  inoitt  eomparUon  with  otiur  TiMa   of 
tha  tarn*  or  kighor  prie* 

S.  S.  PIERCE  CO. 

BOSTON       -       .       .       _       BROOKLINB 


Teco  MiDs  Battermilk  Proiikb 


HADE  WITH 


MALTED  BUTTERMILK 


Bnckwlieat  ud  GridJk  Cikes 

Phr^ivu  uid  food  experia  *cit  Bcncnllr  ■"  ■»■ 
■dTocatlDK  the  dm  of  BUTTERUILK  in  tbe  dailx  diet 

Kmch  Fmckxe  of  Tecco  Ofkldle  Caiam  BUd  Bnck- 
wbent  MiitDre  coDtalai  in  iliicd  f onu  a  liberal  qiua- 
tltr  of  MALTED  BUTTERMILK. 

To  mmkc  Buckwbemt  Cske*  or  Oriddle  Cakes,  jot 
add  wnter  tn  the  cooteiiti  of  tlie  packace.  and  bake 

USE  NO  kOLK.        

FDt  SAIK  n  aOCItS  CmKAllT 
naEkMb«|Ca^H>T,  CaftluJ,  H.  T.,Harfae 

SAWYER    CRYSTAL    BLU1 

NawEaaludAcu 
88  Broad  Street,  Botte 


• 


lb'  ptcparedwith  Liet 
Tbey  are  a{^>etn>iiig  1 
health  restoring  becai 
Liebig,  betides  hav 
food  pr^tertiea,  ioc 
capacity  ^  the  tyitet 
Qouiuhmcnlfrom  odii 
i*  pure,  rich,  bcc(-goodaen 

UEBII 

coMPurs  ExniCT  of  beef 

via  Uai  dfHlan  ma—  Ifci  liM 

BMotihl  SpoMi  Pnelialh  FiM 

Bnd  IHIlii  iihUI  e>p  fismldMc 
jkr  and  10  oiaia  f«r  a  tovltloa  MD4II  or 
■  tHuooB.   Sand  ea*  e^  wttb  Wc- 


vose 


PIANOSiS 


itaeTOTTfi 
WD  a  m 

in  rmirboDiafrHiof  cipeDM.  Write torOtakici 

VOSE  &  SONS  PIANO  CO.,  168 1 


BREAKFAST  AT  EIGHT-WAK^ES 

I 

• 


iF 


h 


For  Pure  Foods  and  Household  Economy  ^ 

It  is  essential  in  the  making  of  raised  foods  that  you  choose 
[dk  a  leavener  of  known  purity  and  uniform  strength— one  that 
not  only  raises   the   cake,  biscuit   or   muffin   just  right,   but  ' 
that  adds  something  of  nutritious  value. 

RUMFORD 

THE  WHOLESOME 

BAKING  POWDER 

restores  in  part,  the  nutritious  and  health-giving  properties  of 
which  fine  wheat  flour  has  been  deprived,  making  all  home 
baking  more  nutritious,  more  easily  digested  and  of  better 
flavor  and  texture.  Furthermore,  you  cannot  help  but  realize 
a  saving  in  money  and  material  by  using  Rumford. 

jtsi  HI  n  meily(m,f-ti,  csfj  afRamfirdUiita  Reopc  Bit*"  jar  IQl-f- 

In  additioD  to  practical  and  economical  recipes,  il  contains  valuable  infomia- 

lion  regaiding  Firclesi  and  Casacrolc  Cookery, 

RUMFORD  CHEMICAL  WORKS,  Provideacc,  R.  I- 


fe^. 


An  Entirely  New  Cook  Book  by  Miss  Farmer 

A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 

Amhor  of  "  The  Bo«ton  CooKng  School  Cook  Book,"  Etc. 

ITai  Eitit  C^trtd  Plun  mi  m.r.  tkam   T-aii  H^ini  BImaraiimi  im  Hmif-T^m, 

Cloth,  $1.60,  net.      By  mail,  |1.7S 

Since  its  original  publication,  Miss  Fanner's  "Boston  Cooking 
School  Cook  Book"  has,  in  new  editions,  incorporated  large  addi- 
tions, but  the  wealth  of  new  material — the  result  of  experiments 
in  the  author's  classrooms  and  embodied  in  recipes  which  have 
been  thoroughly  tested — haa  grown  to  such  an  extent  that  it  has 
become  necessary  to  incorporate  it  in  a  separate  volume  which 
forms  an  almost  indispensable  companion  to  the  author's  invalu- 
able "Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book," 

The  "  New  Book  of  Cookery"  contains  more  than  eight  hun- 
dred recipes  upon  alt  branches,  including  many  new  and  import* 
ant  dishes  not  to  be  found  m  any  other  worK.  It  is  profusely 
illustrated. 

LITTLE,  BROWN  &  CO.,   Publishers    -    BOSTON 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


"AH-   RECKON  AS  HOW   HE'S  DE   BES'    KNOWN  MAN   [N     DE   WORL" 

^i»M  h  Rf'UmJ  M.  Smith  lir  Cntm  t/  Wlimt  Ct.  Cifyrifkl  1914  iy  Cr/im  ii  tftrti  Cr 


Bujr  advertiaed  Goods  —  do  aot  accept  MibithuUf 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING- 


SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Vol.  XVIII 


APRIL.  1914 


No.  9 


CONTENTS  FOR  APRIL 


MENUS  FOR  LITTLE  DINNERS  FOR  EASTER     ....     665 

OUR  HOME  UNDER  THE  HICKORIES  (niustrated) 

Eleanor  W.  Coleman     667 

THE  NERVE-CURE Gertrude  Qark  Hansm  678 

THE  MARRIAGE  OF  EMILY Helen  Forrest  676 

BREAKFAST  AT  EIGHT Quincy  Germaine  680 

THE  GARDEN  OF  EDEN Mrs.  Charles  Norman  688 

LITTLE  THINGS L.  W.  E.  686 

EDITORIALS 686 

SEASONABLE  RECIPES    (Illustrated  with  half-tone  engravings 
of  prepared  dishes) Janet  M.  Hill 

MENUS  FOR  WEEK  IN  APRIL 

MENUS  CHOICE  FOR  SUPPERS 

OUR  DAILY  BREAD 

BRICK  AND  MORTAR  GARDENS    .     .    .  Virginia  Richmond 

HOME  IDEAS  AND   ECONOMIES 706 

What  is  a  Sandwich .'  —  When  is  Economy  not  Economy  ?  —  A  Studio 
Tea-Room  —  A  Vanity  Luncheon  —  Eve  Exonerated,  etc.,  etc.  . 

QUERIES  AND  ANSWERS '710 

NEW  BOOKS 718 

MISCELLANEOUS 724 


tt 


it 


99 


99 


99 


99 


99 


jy 


9> 


689 
698 
699 
700 
70S 


$1.00  A  YEAR      Published  T«B  Tlmcfl  A  Yew      lOo  A  COPY 

Four  Years*   Subscription.  93.00 

Entered  at  Boston  post-office  as  second-class  matter. 

Copyridht.  IB  14.  by 

THE  BOSTON  COOKING -SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO. 
3  72  BO YLSTON  STREET  BOSTON.  MASS. 


Please  Renew  on  Receipt  of  the  Colored  Blank  Enclosed  for  that  Purpcse 

658 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Cottolene 


o^^oLe^ 


iffi? 


''^/P5k^^^ 


Use  one-third  less— and  get 
better  results  at  that 

ALSO  a  great  money-saving  and 
better  health  for  the  whole  family. 

These  points,  madam,  are  well 
w^drth  your  careful  consideration 
and  Cottolene,  the  pure  cooking  fat, 
with  years  of  success  and  popular- 
ity to  its  credit,  is  ^vell  ^vorth  a 
thorough  trial  in  your  kitchen. 


TRY  THESE 

SURPRISE  BALLS- 


Form  cold  mashed  potato  into  balls  the  size 
of  an  egg.  With  a  spoon  make  a  cavity  large 
enough  to  admit  a  good  teaspoonfiil  of  chopped 
and  seasoned  meat  or  chicken.  Close  up,  dip  in 
esg»  n)ll  in  fine  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in 
deep  Cottolene.  Serve  with  a  white  sauce, 
using  Cottolene  instead  of  butter.  Add  a  few 
chopped  shrimps  to  the  sauce;  or,  season  the 
white  sauce  with  paprika. 


Begin  today  using  Cottolene.  Order  a  pail 
from  your  grocer ;  also  send  for  your  copy  of 
our  FREE  Cook  Book,  Home  Helps,  a 
practical,  helpful  book  every  housewife  will 
be  glad  to  own. 

ITHENK.  FAIRBANK^JgBANYl 

CHICAOO 

Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


We  have  an  Attractive 
Propojfflon 

IQ  make  to  Atott  who  will  Uke  pib- 


THE  BOSTON 

COOKING-SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE 

Write  tn  if  jrou  with  to  canvut  yoo 
town  or  if  you  wuh  to  lecure  mhr  a  lew 
Hme*  among  jroui  fntaSt  and  acquaiiU 
ancM.  Suit  the  work  at  ooce  and  you 
w3  be  nnpriMd  how  eatilr  joa  can  earn 
ka,  tvro^y  ov  bfty  dotlan. 

SUBSCRIPnON  DEPARTMENT 

Boston  CookbigSehool 

Magazbte  Co. 
BoarroN.  massachusetr 


INDEX  FOR  APRIL 


BreakfaM  at  E^t  .  .  . 
Brick  and  Mortar  Gardens 

EditoriaU 

Home  Ideas  and  Economies 

New  Books 

Our  Home  in  tbe  Hickories 
Our  Daily  Bread  .  .  . 
Tbe  Nerve  Cure  .  -  . 
The  Garden  of  Eden  .  . 
The  Marriage  of  Emily 


Seasonable  Recipbs: 

Beef,  Filet  of.  with  Artichoke  Bottoms. 

Barigoule,  lit. 

Cake.  Blitien.  Ill 

Cakes.  Baby.  Baltimore.  111.      .      .      . 

Cakes,  Easter  Sponge 

Chicken.  L<^,  Stufied.  Ill 

Chicken.  Chaudfrtnd  of.  Ill  . 

Cocktail.  Crabflake.  Ill 

Consommi,  Irma 

D'uxelles,  Preparation  of     ...      . 

Egg*  A  la  Husaard,  Itl 

Eggt  in  Ramekin  Cups,  with  Pastry    . 
Egge  in  Ramekin  Cups,  Zii^ara 

HasenpfeSer.  German 

Kartoffel,  Kloese 

Lobster,  Cardinal  in  Ramekin.  111. 

Quenelles,  Chicken  for 

Rolls.  Kaiser.  III. 

Salad,  Lobster.  Victoria 

Salad,  1914  Easter,  with  Dressing     .      . 
Salad,  Prune,  Apple  and  Cream  Cheese, 

111 

Salad,  Tomato  Jelly  for 

Tone,  Dessert,  111 


Queries  and  Answers: 
Breads,  Names  of  Hot,  etc 
Batters.  Names  of  Yeast 
Cake,  White  Fruit     .     . 
Dextrin  in  Baked  Potatoes  . 
Doughnuts  and  Crullers 

^  Doughnuts  ,Veast 

Dressing,  Thousand  Island  Salad 
Ingredients,  Order  of  adding 
Meats.  Food  to  serve  with  . 

Muf5ns,  Ei^lish 

Mushrooms,  Time  of  Cooking   . 

Pitcher  or  Carafi 

Pudding,  Castellane        .     .     . 
Ramekin,  Dishes  to  serve  in 
Table  Cloth,  width  of  Hem  .      . 

Welsh  Rabbit 

Yeast,  Potato 


Buy  advertised  Goods —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Mrs.  Rorer's  Celebrated 

Philadelphia  Cook  Book 

Now  One  Dollar 


The  publishers  are  now  able  to  place  this  wonderful  book  of 
Mrs.  Rorer's  within  the  reach  of  every  housewife,  by  making  the 
price  ONE  DOLLAR.  Brimful  of  choice  recipes,  nearly  700 
pages,  the  directions  clear  and  easily  followed,  with  helpful  in- 
formation as  to  how  to  market  economically,  how  to  prepare,  cook 
and  serve.     A  great  feast  and  great  value  for  ONE  DOLLAR. 

Bound  in  washable  cloth,  ONE  DOLLAR;  by  mail  $1.15 


My  Best  250  Recipes 

Contains  Best  Soups,  Best  Fish  Redpes,  Best 
Ways  of  Cooking  Meat,  Best  Sauces,  Vegetable 
Recipes,  Salads,  Fruit  Preserves,  Desserts,  Lun- 
cheon Dishes,  Ices,  Game  and  Poultry  Recipes, 
Breads  and  Biscuits,  Candies,  Cakes,  Puddings,  etc. 

Glothv  75  cents;  by  mail  80  cents 


Home  Candy  Makinf{ 

Contains  rules  for  Candy-Making,  Colorings, 
Flavorings,  Cream  ConfectionSf  Mixed  Confec- 
tions, Fresh  Fruits  with  Cream  Jackets,  Nuts  and 
Fruit  Glaces,  Nougat,  Caramels,  Molasses  Can- 
dies, Fudge,  Salt  Water  Taffy,  Peanut  Brittle,  etc. 

Cloth,  50  cental  by  mftil  55  cents 


Made-Over  .Dishes 

New  and  original  recipes  showing  how  to  trans- 
form left-overs  into  palatable  and  wholesome 
dishes.  They  cover  Fish,  Meats,  Poultry,  Vege- 
tables, Bread,  Eggs,  Potatoes,  Cheese,  Salads, 
Cereals,  Fruits,  Sour  Milk,  Cream,  etc. 

Cloth,  50  centss  by  mail  55  cents 


Bread  and  Bread  Maklnii 

Tells  how  to  select  flour,  with  directions  for 
mixing,  kneading,  moulding  and  baking.  The 
recipes  cover  Bread  Making,  Small  Breads,  Second 
Cooking  of  Bread,  Quick  Breads,  Steamed  Breads, 
Sweet  Breads,  Cakes,  etc. 

Cloth,  50  cental  by  mail  55  cents 


Mrs.  Rorer's   New  Cook  Book 

Over  700  pages  of  practical  goodness;  128  beautiful  illustntions;  1500  recipes  covering 
every  phase  of  cookery  from  soup  to  dessert;  clever  ways  for  doing  ordinary  things,  and  an 
abundance  of  new  ideas  and  new  recipes. 


Bound  in  washable  doth,  $2.00 1  by  mail  $2.20 

0/  all  bookstores  or  department  stores^   or  ,of  us 

ARNOLD   &  COMPANY,  420  Sansom  St.,  Philadelphia 


Don't  i^ucss—iio  hy  Mrs.  Rorcr 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

661 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  presents  the  following  ts  s  list  of  rq>re- 
sentative  works  on  household  economics.    Any  of  the  hooks  will  be  sent  postpaid  upon 
receipt  of  price. 
With   an  order  amounting  to  $5  or  more   we   include   a  year's  subscription   to  THE 
BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  (price  $1). 

Special  rates  made  to  schools,  clubs  and  persons  wishing  a  number  of  books.  Write  for 
quotation  on  the  list  of  books  you  wish.  We  canry  a  very  large  stock  of  these  books.  One  order 
to  us  saves  effort  and  express  charges. 


A-B-Z  of  Our  Own  NutritioiL  Horace 

Fletcher     1.00 

American  Cook  Book.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Hill  LIO 
American  Salad  Book.  M.  DeLoup...  1.00 
Around  the  World  Cook  Book.  Barroll  1.50 
Art  of  Entertaining.  Madame  Mesri  1.00 
Art    of    Home    Candy-Making    (with 

thermometer,  dipping  wire,  etc.)         3.00 

Art  of  Right  Living.    Richards 50 

Baby,  The.    A  book  for  mothers  and 

nurses.  D.  R.  Brown,  M.  D 1.00 

Bacteria,    Yeasts    and    Molds    in    the 

Home.    H.  W.   Conn    1.00 

Book  of  Entrees.  Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill  1.50 
Book  of  Good  Manners.  Kingsland...  1.50 
Boston  Cook  Book.  Mary  J.  Lincoln  2.00 
Boston   Cooking   School   Cook   Book. 

Fannie  M.  Farmer   2.00 

Boston    School    Kitchen    Text    Book. 

Mary  J.  Lincoln  1.00 

Bread  and  Bread-making.  Mrs.  Rorer  .50 
Bright  Ideas  for  Entertiuning.  Linscott  .50 
Brussels  Charts  (Two.)    Showing  cuts 

of  Beef,  L^mb  and  Veal  2.00 

Cidies,  Icings  and  Fillings.  Mrs.  Rorer  .50 
Cakes,  Cake  Decorations  and  Desserts. 

King   1.00 

Candy  Making  Revolutionized.     Mary 

Elizabeth  Hall 75 

Canning  and  Preserving.  Mrs.  Rorer  .75 
Care  and  Feeding  of  Children.     L.  £. 

Care  of  a  Child  in  Health.    N.  Oppen- 

heim    1.25 

Care  of  a  House.    T.  M.  Clark 1.50 

Carving  and  Serving.    Mary  J.  Lincoln  .60 

Catering  for  Special  Occasions.  Farmer  1.00 

Century  Cook  Book.     Mary  Roland..  2.00 

Chemistry  in  Daily  Life.  Lessar-Cohn  1.75 
Chemistry    of    Cookery.    W.   Mattieu 

Williams    1.50 

Chemistry    of   Cooking   and   Cleaning 

Richards  and  Elliott 1.00 

Chemistry    of    Pood    and    Nutrition. 

Sherman    1.50 

Clean  Milk.    S.  D.  Belcher 1.00 

Cleaning  and  Renovating.  E.  G.  Osman  .75 
Color,    Harmony    and    Contrast.     Jas. 

Wood   4.20 

Complete     Home,     The.      Clara     E. 

Laughlin    1.25 

Cook  Book  for  Nurses.    Sarah  C.  Hill  .75 

Cooking  for  Two.    Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill  1.50 

Cost  of  Cleanness.     Richards   1.00 


Coat  of  Pood.    Richards 1.00 

Cost  of  Living.    Richards 1.00 

Coat  of  Shelter.    Richards LOO 

Daintiea.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 

Dietetic  Value  of  Bread.    John  Good- 
fellow   1^ 

Diet  in  Relation  to  Age  and  Activity. 

Thompson  1.00 

Dictionary  of  Cookery.    Cassell 2.50 

Domestic  Art  in  Woman's  Education. 

Cooley    1.25 

Domestic      Science      in      Elementary 

Schools.     Wilson   1.00 

Domestic  Service.    Lucy  M.  Salmon..  ZOO 

Dust  and  Its  Dangers.    Pruden 75 

Economics  of  Modem  Cookery.  M.  M. 

Mallock   1.00 

Elements  of  the  Theory  and  Practice 

of  Cookery.    Williams  and  Fisher...  100 
Eottipment    for    Teaching    Domestic 

Science.     Kinne    80 

Etiquette      of      New      York     Today. 

Learned    1 J5 

Etiquette  of  Today.    Ordway 50 

Eutnenics.     Richards   100 

Every  Day  Menu  Book.    Mrs.  Rorer..  liO 
Expert  Waitress.    A.  F.  Springsteed..  1.00 

Family  Pood.  O'Donnell 1.00 

First  Principles  of  Nursing.    Anne  R. 

Manning    1.00 

Food  and  Cookery  for  the   Sick  and 

Convalescent.  Fannie  M.  Farmer.. ..  L60 
Food  and  Dietaries.     R.    W.    Burnett 

M.  D 1.50 

Food      and      Feeding.        Sir      Henry 

Thompson     1.35 

Food  &  Flavor.     Fiack 2.00 

Food     and     Household     Management. 

Kinne  and  Cooley   1.10 

Food  and  Its  Function.    James  Knight  1.00 
Food      and     Nutrition.      Bevier     and 

Ushir    1.00 

Food  and  the  Principles  of  Dietetics. 

Hutchinson     3.00 

Food  for  the  Invalid  and  the  Convales- 
cent.   Gibbs  75 

Food  in  Health  and    Disease.     I.    B. 

Yco.  M.  D 2.50 

Food   Materials  and   Their   Adultera- 
tions.    Richards    1-00 

Food  Products  of  the  World.    Mary  E. 

Green    1.50 

Franco-American  Cookery  Book.    De- 

liie 3.50 


Buy  advertised  Goods — do  not  accept  substitutes 

662 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Fuels  of  the  Household.  Marian  White  .75 
Golden  Rule  Cook  Book  (600  Recipes 

for  Meatless  Dishes).    Sharpe 2.00 

Grocer's    Encyclopaedia. 10.00 

Guide  to  Modem  Cookery.  M.  Escoffier  4.00 
Handbook  of  Home  Economics.  Flagg  .75 
Handbook   of    Hospitality    for   Town 

and  Country.    Florence  H.  Hall....  1.50 
Handbook  of  Invalid  Cooking.     Mary 

A.  Boland  2.00 

Handbook  on  Sanitation.    G.  M.  Price, 

M.  D 1.50 

Health   and    Longevity   Through    Ra- 
tional Diet.    Dr.  Arnold  Lorand 2.50 

Healthful   Farm    House,   The.     Helen 

Dodd    60 

Home  Candy  Making.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Home  ESconomics.    Maria  Parloa 1.50 

Home  Economics  Movement 75 

Home  Nursing.     Harrison  1.00 

Home  Problems  from  a  New  Standpoint  1.00 
Home  Science  Cook  Book.    Anna  Bar- 
rows and  Mary  J.  Liticoln 1.00 

Homes  and  Their  Decoration.    French  3.00 

Hot  Weather  Dishes.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

House  SaniUtion.    Talbot 80 

Household  Bacteriology.  Buchanan..  2J25 
Household  Elconomics.  Helen  Campbell  1.50 
Household  Science.  Junita  L.  Shepperd  1.75 

Household  Textiles.     Gibbs 1.25 

How  To  Cook  for  the  Sick  and  Con- 
valescent.   H.  V.  Sachse  1.00 

How  To  Feed    Children.     Louise    E. 

Hogan    1.00 

How  to  Use  a  Chafing  Dish.  Mrs.  Rorer    .50 

Human  Poods.    Snyder 1.25 

Ice  Cream,  Water  Ices,  etc.    Rorer  ...     .75 

I  Go  A  Marketing.    Sowle 1.50 

Institution  Recipes.    Smedley 1.25 

International  Cook  Book.    Filtppini...   1.00 

Kitchen  Companion.    Parloa 2.50 

Laboratory    Handbook    for    Dietetics. 

Rose    1.10 

Laundry  Manual   Balderston  and  Lim- 
erick    V 50 

Laundry  Work.     Juanita  L.  Shepperd    .60 
Lessons  in  Cooking  Through  Prepara- 
tion of  Meals 2.00 

Lessons  in  Elementary  Cooking.   Mary 

C.    Jones  1.08 

Like  Mother  Used  to  Make.    Herrick.  1.25 

Luncheons.     Mary  Roland  1.40 

Made-over  Dishes.    Mrs.  Rorer  ......     .50 

Many  Ways  for  Cooking  Eggs.     Mrs. 

Rorer    50 

Menu  Book  and   Register  of  Dishes. 

Senn    2.50 

Mothers',  The,  Guide.    Coolidge 50 

My  Best  250  Recipes.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 

New  Book  of  Cookery,  A.  Fannie  M. 

Farmer 1.60 

New  Hostess  of  Today.    Larned 1.50 

New  Salads.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 


Nursing,  Its  Principles  and    Practice. 

Isabel  H.  Robb  2.00 

Nutrition  of  Man.    Chittenden 3.00 

Old  Age  Deferred.    Dr.  Arnold  Lorand  2.50 
Old  Time  Recipes  for    Home    Made 

Wines.    Helen  S.  Wright 1.50 

One  Woman's  Work  for  Farm  Women    .50 

Paper  Bag  Cookery.    Soyer 60 

Pleasures  of  the  Table.    Elwanger 2.50 

Practical  Cooking  and  Dinner  Giving. 

Mrs.  Mary  F.  Henderson 1.50 

Practical  Cooking  and  Serving.     Mrs. 

Janet  M.  Hill 1.50 

Practical  Dietetics.    Oilman  Thompson  5.00 
Practical    Points    in    Nursing.     Emily 

A.  M.  Stone^ *. 1.75 

Practical  Sewmg  dt  Dressmaking.    Al- 

lin^ton   1.50 

Principles  of  Home  Decoration.    Can- 
dace  Wheeler   1.80 

Principles  of  Human  Nutrition.  Jordan  1.75 

Quick  Soups.    Mrs.  Rorer 25 

Recipes  and  Menus  for  Fifty.    Frances 

Lowe  Smith   1.50 

Rorer's  (Mrs.)  New  Cook  Book 2.00 

Salads  and  Sauces.    Murray 50 

Salads,  Sandwiches,  and  Cfhafing  Dish 

Dainties.    Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill 1.50 

Sandwiches.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Sanitation  in  Daily  Life.    Richards 60 

Selection    and    Preparation    of    Food. 

Brevier  and  Meter 75 

Sewing  Course  for  Schools.    Woolman  1.50 
Shelter  and  Clothing.  Kinneand  Cooley  1.10 

Story  of  Germ  Life.    H.  W.  Conn 35 

Soyer's  Standard  Cookery  1.50 

Sunday  Night  Suppers.    Christine  Ter- 

hune  Herrick  1.00 

The  Story  of  Textiles 3.00 

The  Up-to-Date  Waitress.    Mrs.  Janet 

M.   Hill   1.50 

The  Woman  Who  Spends.     Bertha  J. 

Richardson   1.00 

Till  the  Doctor  Comes,  and  How  To 

Help  Him  1.00 

Vegetable  Cookery  and  Meat    Substi- 
tutes.   Mrs.  Rorer 1.50 

Vegetarian  Cookery.    A.  G.  Payne 50 

With  a  Saucepan  Over  the  Sea.    Ade- 
laide Keen   1.50 

Women    and    Economics.     Charlotte 

Perkins  Stetson   1.50 

Woman's  Share  in   Primitive   Culture. ' 

Otis  J.  Mason  1.75 

World's  Commercial  Products,  The.  . .  3.60 

Library  of  Home  Economics: 


Hie  Bmim 
Ht«seii«U  Baclerldof  7 
HratelMU  HyilcM 
Chcaitlry  ti  lE«  BmmImII 
FrlMiplM  •!  CMkery 
FMd  aai  Dielatkt 


HovsehoU  HaaaiciBtBl 
PvMoal  Bygicat 
Hmm  Cart  tTlbe  Sick 
Ttztilct  %ni  CI*lUn< 
Stady  «l  ChiM  Life 
Cart  tf  ChUdreB 


(May   be   purchased    as   a   set   or 
singly  at  $1.50  a  volume). 


ADDRESS  ALL  ORDERS 

THE  BOSTON  COOKINOSCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Here's 

tKe 
~leason 


Ask  any  good  housekeeper 
what  the  secret  of  light, 
flaky,  digestible  past  ry  is, 
and  she  will  invariably  say 
"perfect  shortening."  That 
is  another  way  of  saying 

**SIMON  PURE** 

Leaf  Lard 

Made  from  the  finest  Uaj 
fat,  rendered  in  an  open 
kettle  in  the  way  our  grand- 
mothers did  it;  sold  in  sealed 
pails  everywhere. 

Costs  less  and  gives  better 
results  than  butter.  Keep 
two  pails  on  hand  always 
— one  for  baking  and  one 
for  frying. 

ABMOUR^COMnU>IV 

CHICAGO 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  subatitutes 


Little  Dinners  for  Easter 

I 

Crabflake  Cocktail 
Consomme,  Irma 
Sliced  Eggs  ^  la  King  in  Ramekins 
Larded  Fillet  of  Beef 
Artichokes  k  la  Barigoule 
1914  Easter  Salad 
Kaiser  Rolls 
Dessert  Torte  with  Strawberries 
Little  Sponge  Cakes 
Coffee 


II 

Halves  of  Grapefruit  with  Strawberries 
Consomm6,  Celestine 
Lobster,  Cardinal  Style 
Lamb  Chops,' Maintenon  Style 
1914  Easter  Salad 
Peas  in  Potato  Patties 
Ham  Mousseline  k  la  Florentine 
Dessert  Torte,  with  Ice  Cream,  Melba 
Salted  Nuts  Turkish  Paste 

Coffee 


The 
Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


Vol.  XVIII 


APRIL,   1914 


No.  9 


Our  Home  Under  the  Hickories 

By  Eleanor  W.  Coleman 


IT  was  in  a  little  fishing  village  that 
we  found  our  home, —  a  village  that 
felt  itself  neglected  by  an  unappre- 
ciated world:  for  its  neighbors  nine 
miles  north  and  south  were  blossoming 
into  stmimer  resorts  and  selling  their 
rocky  land  to  city  folk  for  many  dollars 
a  foot,  where  it  had  formerly  brought 
but  a  few  dollars  an  acre. 

The  cottage  itself,  tiny  and  low- 
pitched,  peeping  out  from  a  shelter  of 
big  apple  trees,  lured  us  from  afar. 
Seeing  no  one  about  the  place,  I  ven- 
ttired  up  the  grassy  path  to  the  front 
porch,  where  I  lingered,  trying  to  peer 
through  the  shuttered  windows. 

A  thicket  of  hickories  screened  it 
on  the  northwest.  On  the  south,  a 
meadow  drowsed  in  the  sun  until  it 
lost  its  way  in  the  shade  of  an  old 
orchard.  To  the  east,  was  a  little 
sweep  of  tangled  grass  that  made  a 
steep  drop  of  sixty  feet  to  the  onward 
stretch  of  the  broad  Atlantic. 

Again  was  I  lured  to  the  spot  with 
my  sketching  trap.  A  study  of  rocky 
headland  where  the  waves  dashed  and 
broke  in  foam,  and  one  of  the  upland 
meadow  with  dunes  and  the  ocean 
beyond,  to  say  nothing  of  the  red- 
gabled  bam  peering  through  the  trees, 
was  made  in  the  shade  and  quiet  of 
the  porches.  Day  after  day  found  me 
there    sketching    undisturbed. 


What  a  delightful  spot  in  which  to 
work  and  rest  for  a  season! 

There  was  no  sign  to  say  that  the 
place  was  for  sale  or  rent,  but  the  tall 
grass  and  riot  of  wild  things  seemed  to 
indicate  that  it  had  been  for  some  time 
untenanted.  Inquiries  at  the  hotel 
brought  no  help.  The  apathetic  land- 
lord ''Didn't  know  who  owned  it," 
in  fact  * 'didn't  know  anything  about 
it,  but  there  was  a  cottage  to  rent  up 
the  street."  Glaringly  fresh  it  was 
in  new  paint,  white  with  bright  yellow 
trimmings,  and  a  red  roof.  Its  stuflfy 
little  rooms  were  redolent  of  varnish 
and  cheap  upholstery.  It  was  fitted 
up  expressly  for  the  summer  people, 
who  did  not  come. 

Patient  investigation  finally  discov- 
ered a  leisurely  citizen  who  confessed 
to  being  the  agent  of  the  little  cottage 
among  the  hickories. 

"Yes,  it  was  for  rent, —  a  dollar  and 
a  half  a  day."  How  much  by  the  sea- 
son? He  did  not  know,  but  could 
give  the  address  of  the  owner. 

A  party  from  the  hotel  went  to  the 
little  cottage  to  inspect  it.  Quite  out 
of  the  question  they  decided  at  a  glance. 
Just  a  little  bam  -  dwelling, —  a  big 
living  room,  fair-sized  kitchen,  two 
bedrooms  and  a  shed.  Unwashed  win- 
dows and  unswept  floors,  festoons  of 
cobwebs  from  the  rafters,  and  a  few 


667 


668 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


pieces  of  dilapidated  furniture  covered 
with  dust, —  that  was  all, —  yes,  it 
was  quite  impossible,  was  the  full- 
throated  chorus. 

But  I  was  not  so  sure.  The  big 
double  door  in  the  sitting  room  looked 
out  over  the  ocean  and  let  in  an  intox- 
icating fragrance, —  salt  from  the  sea 
mingled  with  simsteeped  bay,  sweet 
fern  and  briar  roses.  Every  grimy 
window  framed  in  a  picture  good  to 
live  with.  No  plaster  in  the  house, 
not  an  inch  of  floor,  wall  or  ceiling  that 
could  not  be  reached  with  soap  and 
water,  not  a  crevice  where  a  germ  could 
secrete  itself  from  active  pursuit,  and 
a  stillness,  broken  only  by  the  song  of 
a  wood  pe-wee,  mingled  with  the 
south  breeze. 

No,  not  out  of  the  question  at  all, 
and  I  took  the  owner's  name  and 
address.  A  few  hours  later  we  were 
in  possession. 

I  Our  first  purchase  in  the  village 
store  was  five  pounds  of  sulphur.  The 
worthy  who  waited  on  us  seemed  much 
amused.  The  sulphur  burned  itself 
away  in  the  cottage,  for  thirty-six 
hours,  its  fumes,  meantime,  laying  any 
ghostly  lingerings  of  former  occupants. 

New  beds  and  beddings  had  been 
put  in  and  the  floors  scrubbed,  but 
when   the  sulphur  had  oozed   through 


the  pores  and  we  entered  into  active 
possession,  every  wall  and  beam  and 
rafter  was  scrubbed  with  hot  suds.  It 
was  a  warm  day  in  June,  and  ver>- 
pleasant  was  the  smell  of  the  clean  wet 
pine  drying  in  the  blossom  ladened  air. 

Some  inexpensive  couch  covers  of 
a  stamped  cotton,  from  a  Japanese 
shop,  cost  one  dollar  each.  Three  or 
four  packing  boxes,  fitted  with  shelves 
by  the  village  carpenter  and  draped 
with  chintz  brought  from  the  city. 
a  coat  of  forest-green  paint  on  some 
pine  tables  and  a  wash  bench,  dark  red 
paint  and  more  of  the  chintz  on  an 
old  settee  and  the  more  dilapidated 
of  the  old  chairs,  a  few  bright  Japanese 
lanterns,  hung  in  dark  comers  of  the 
rafters,  and  we  had  a  very  habitable 
"camp"  at  slight  expense. 

There  were  two  of  us  and  a  maid. 
Luckily  our  Phyllis  loved  the  countr>-. 
Our  meals  were  served  under  the  hick- 
ories, when  the  weather  was  pleasant, 
'and  in  the  shelter  of  the  porch  when 
it  rained- 

We  lived  out  of  doors  that  summer, 
fairly  "Soaking"  in  the  bracing  air, 
the  beauty  and  the  stillness,  and  went 
back  to  town  in  vigorous  condition 
for  the  winter  work  and  wear.  Our 
four  months  in  the  little  cottage  had 
been  a  success. 


OUR  HOME  UNDER  THE  HICKORIES 


After  searching  from  the  South  Jersey 
coast  to  Murray  Bay  and  back  we  had 
at  last  found  what  we  wanted.  Then 
we  began  to  talk  about  buying  it, 
instead  of  renting  another  season. 

The  price  was  reasonable,  but  why 
any  one  should  want  it  at  all,  "way 
out  in  the  fields,"  and  so  far  short  of 
standards  of  gentility,  seemed  an  evi- 
dence of  unsound  mind.  Even  the 
thrifty  villager,  who  was  paid  one  dollar 
and  a  half  a  day  for  transplanting  wild 
vines,  and  to  add  still  more  sweet  briars 
and  barberries  to  the  already  impene- 
trable tangle,  felt  called  on  to  protest. 

Before  buying  the  place,  we  consulted 
with  our  carpenter  who  had  done  sun- 
dry odd  bits  of  work  for  us  during  our 
first  summer,  and  had  proved  honest 
as  man  and  craftsman,  and  neigh- 
borly withal.  He  pronounced  the  house 
well  built,  solid  in  foundation  and  sills, 
and  worth  additions  and  improvements. 
After  that  our  September  evenings  in- 
doors were  filled  with  the  excitement 
of  plans  made,  discussed,  rejected  and 
made  over  again. 

More  windows  in  the  bedrooms, 
and  a  fire  of  logs  in  the  sitting  room, 
we  decided  we  must  have  at  once. 
The  carpenter  promised  the  windows, — 
two  big  ones,  high  and  wide  in  each 
room,  thrown  out  on  the  south  slope 
of  the  roof,  opening  up  to  us  light  and 
breeze  and  glorious  views.  But  the 
fireplace  that  was  to  cheer  the  chilly 
evenings  and  make  perfect  the  glorious 
days  of  north-east  storms,  here  we  were 
sorely  perplexed. 

We  had  learned  that  chimneys  could 
smoke  and  sulk.  Rumor  even  whis- 
pered of  one  in  the  neighborhood  that 
refused  to  bum  when  the  front  door 
was  open.  After  much  serious  reflec- 
tion we  selected  a  certain  Moses  Jede- 
diah  Pilkins  as  the  mason  who  seemed 
to  have  the  most  persuasive  way  with 
chimneys,  and  I  went  to  him  in  be- 
coming meekness  of  spirit. 

The  chimney  was  to  be  deep  and 
wide  enough  to  hold  a  half-cord  length 


NORTHEAST  VIEW  OF  COTTAGE. 

of  wood,  we  had  decided,  and  it  was 
to  have  a  draught  that  would  defy 
wind,  weather  and  open  doors. 

After  seeing  it  in  progress  we  again 
went  north  and  left  Moses  Jedediah 
to  struggle  with  his  problem  unaided. 

We  watched  eagerly  that  winter 
for  bills.  It  was  only  through  this 
medium  that  we  could  follow  the  work 
going  on  for  us  in  the  little  village  by 
the  sea.  Conscientiously  itemized  bills 
they  were,  too,  and  we  became  learned 
in  the  prices  and  details  of  building. 
At  first,  we  were  sorely  piizzlcd  over 
such  statements  as  "Teeming  brick 
from  York,"  until  we  remembered  that 
in  the  local  vocabularly  every  four- 
footed  thing  in  harness  was  a  team, 
and  that  we  were  seven  miles  from  the 
nearest  supply  of  brick. 

Brick,  blue  tile,  or  field  stone,  had 
been  the  question  that  occupied  sleep- 
less nights  and  argumentative  days: 
but  a  certain  rich  satiny  brown,  that 
time  and  closed  shutters  had  wrought 
into  the  unpainted  wood  of  the  walls, 
decided  us  in  favor  of  the  dull  red. 

It  was  all  very  experimental,  this 
building  on  our  own  responsibility  so 
far  from  the  scene  of  action.  One  of 
us  was  full  of  faith  and  buoyant  hopes, 
the    other    shivering    with    dread,  lest 


670 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


the  new  windows  let  in  the  rain  and 
the  first  fire  on  the  new  hearth  reduce 
us  to  ashes. 

We  came  down  in  a  north-east  storm. 
The  kindling  was  damp,  the  logs,  left 
over  from  the  previous  summer,  were 
water  soaked,  but  in  fifteen  minutes 
a  blaze  was  roaring  up  the  chinmey, 
warming  us  to  the  heart,  and  settling 
all  doubts  as  to  the  draft. 

Now  the  building  mania  was  upon 
us,  we  wanted  another  bedroom,  and 
a  studio  was  imperative!  But  there 
were  two  apple  trees,  a  big  balcony 
and  a  clematis  that  on  no  account  must 
be  disturbed.  There  must  be  a  high 
studio  window,  yet  the  whole  effect 
of  the  building  must  be  kept  low  and 
sheltered  under  the  trees.  Again  the 
carpenter  was  called  in  and  the  diffi- 
culties stated  He  had  no  suggestions 
to  offer,  but  was  calmly  confident  for 
his  own  part. 

"You  make  the  drawin's  and  I'll 
build  it,"  he  said,  with  the  added  re- 
flection, "The  trees'll  grow  and  the 
house  won't." 

At    last,    all   difficulties    were    met. 


A  gambrel  roof  gave  a  window  12  ft. 
high,  with  a  roof  height  of  20  feet, 
while  a  balcony  thrown  out  over  one 
end  of  the  studio  merged  into  a  room 
that  sprang  like  a  low  square  tower 
from  the  junction  of  the  studio  with 
the  main  building  and  was  fitted 
into  the  kitchen  roof  about  half  way 
down  its  southern  slope.  It  was  after- 
wards covered  with  hipped  roof.  This 
was  a  difficult  piece  of  work  to  make 
weather  tight,  but  it  was  successfully 
carried  through  without  disturbing  a 
twig  of  the  big  apple  tree  that  thrust 
its  fruit  within  reach  of  the  new  win- 
dows,—  four  of  them  on  the  south  and 
one  on  the  west. 

During  these  years  our  village  had 
found  itself,  and  the  city  folks  had 
come.  It  was  already  selling  its  waste 
places  for  many  dollars  a  foot  and 
our  little  comer  of  the  earth  found 
a  more  appreciative  public.  Costly 
houses  sprang  up  around  us  and  an 
occasional  automobile  broke  the  quiet 
of  our  lane.  The  nook  under  the 
hickories  was  no  longer  "way  out  in 
the  fields"  and  a  more  retired  dining- 


A  CORNER  IN  THE  STUDIO. 


OUR  HOME  UNDER  THE  HICKORIES 


room  became  desirable.  So  a  Japanese 
screen  was  added  to  the  one  we  already 
have  of  wild  vines  and  shrubbery  that 
closed  in  the  south  porch;  and  it  soon 
became  our  regular  dining  room. 

In  the  nearest  small  town,  nine  miles 
distant,  we  found  a  capable  plumber, 
and  a  good  supply  of  porcelain-lined 
fittings. 

Our  house  was, at  last,  literally  founded 
upon  a  rock.  Nowhere  about  it  could 
the  stick  of  my  sketching  umbrella 
go  deep  enough  to  hold,  though  in 
some  mysterious  way  vegetation  flour- 
ished. Carpenter  and  plumber  searched 
patiently  for  a  spot  where  a  drain  was 
practicable,  and,  having  found  it,  went 
their  ways.  I  was  left  to  find  a  man 
to  chop  through  the  layer  of  porous 
rock  to  the  unyielding  mass  that  formed 
its  bed  below. 

Our  water  supply  came  through  iron 
pipes  from  a  river  deep  in  the  pine 
forest,  far  from  human  habitation  and 
drainage,  and  never  fails  us.  It  is 
good  for  drinking  and  pleasant  for 
washing. 

Our  shell  was  now  complete.  Each 
addition  had  been  made  to  meet  a 
definite  need,  and  our  home  fitted  us 
in  aD  our  modes  and  habits.  Now 
our  minds  were  turned  to  furnishings. 

The  hving-room  first  claimed  atten- 
tion, as  we  sat  by  the  log  fire  in  the 
evenings  of  early  September. 

Our  builder  now  became  interior 
decorator,  and  fitted  one  comer  near 
the  hearth  with  an  open  china  closet, 
the  drawings  for  which  were  made 
in  a  seventeenth  century  house  at 
the  other  end  of  the  county. 

Very  convenient,  this,  to  hold  the 
bit  of  Japanese  porcelain,  the  old 
china  of  many  colors,  the  brass,  copper, 
and  pewter  one  gathers  from  so  many 
places,  and  that  stand  for  as  many 
delightful  adventures. 

Very  cheery  it  is,  when  the  fire 
light  flashes  back  from  a  brightRussian 
Samovor,  and  plays  on  the  deep  greens 
and  blues  of  old  dishes,  a  hint  of  warmth 


THE  BED  BRICK  CHIMNEY, 

and  color  in  a  shadowed  comer. 

A  bookcase,  with  broad  strong  shelves 
built  into  the  space  between  two  windows, 
reached  to  the  brown  rafters,  and  the 
two  roomy  drawers  at  the  bottom 
were  fitted  with  glass  knobs  bought 
in  an  antique  shop  in  a  distant  crty. 

Our  color  scheme  starting  with  the 
golden  glory  of  the  time-colored  walls, 
the  new  hard-wood  floor  was  brought 
to  a  corresponding  tone  with  a  coat 
of  dear  oak  stain  that  left  the  grain 
of  the  wood  well  marked  under  two 
coats  of  varnish. 

More  Turkish  rugs  are  on  the  floor, 
and  one  of  dark  grey  fur  lies  before 
the  fire  place.  A  pair  of  old  English 
andirons,  big  and  strong,  were  found, 
after  a  two  years'  quest,  in  the  delight- 
ful little  shop  of  an  old  Frenchman. 
They  hold  the  logs,  and  in  one  ingle 
nook,  on  an  old  tripod  unearthed 
in  the  garret  of  a  deserted  and  crumb- 
ling house,  sings  a  brass  kettle,  and 
in  the  other,  a  big  copper  jar  from 
Russia  holds  a  supply  of  pine  cones. 


672 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


The  red  brick  of  the  chimney,  that 
rises  in  a  solid  mass  to  the  rafters. 
Droved  just  the  setting  for  my  great- 
grandmother's  tea  tray,  where  the  hap- 
less Phaeton,  in  gold  helmet  and  claret 
colored  cloak,  drives  his  fiery  steeds 
and  very  expensive  chariot,  over  a 
black  laquer  ground,  straight  for  the 
sunbeam  in  the  upper  left  hand  comer. 
Easy  wicker  chairs  are  here,  and  a  few 
bits  of  old  mahogany.  The  room  is 
shady  and  restful,  as  the  breeze  sweeps 
through  doors  and  windows  on  a  sum- 
mer day,  and  it  is  snug  and  cozy  in 
the  fire-glint  and  lamp  light  of  a  chilly 
evening. 

It  was  the  carpenter  who  built  the 
linen  closet,  reaching  from  floor  to 
ceiling,  with  compartments  to  fit  the 
different  piles  of  linen.  He,  too,  made 
the  boxes  with  hinged  covers,  that 
we  covered  with  cow  hide  and  studded 
with  brass  nails. 

Everything  had  been  of  our  own 
designing,  with  much  of  our  actual 
handicraft,    and    great    had    been    the 


joy  in  the  doing,  whUe  the  expense  had 

been  absurdly  small. 

House  and  land 

$800.00 

Fireplace  (labor  and  materials) 

58.00 

Roof  and  windows  (labor  and 

materials) 

80.00 

Plumbing 

200.00 

Carpenter's  labor 

100.19 

Materials  for  Building 

296.41 

Paints  and  Painter's  time 

20.00 

Total 


$1,554.60 


Now  we  tiuTi  gleefully  to  plans  for 
preserving  a  tangle  of  Juniper  here, 
and  curbing  the  excess  of  sweet  fern 
yonder,  arranging  a  thicket  of  bar- 
berries where  the  long -tailed  thrush, 
and  catbird  may  be  inclined  to  build 
their  nests;  to  introducing  a  patch  of 
old-fashioned  garden  flowers  where  they 
will  not  clash  with  the  wild  things 
that  must  always  be  paramount. 

It  is  a  perennial  task  in  this  world 
of  out-of-doors,  an  unfailing  interest 
and  an  unfailing  joy. 


INVITING  CORNER  ON  THE  EAST  PORCH, 


The  Nerve-Cure 


By  Gertrude  Clark  Hanson 


Chicago,  March,  1911. 
My  dear  Katherine: 
J  T  is  more  than  three  months  since 
I  your  letter  came  and  I  know  that 
•*-  you  must  have  wondered,  perhaps 
a  little  resentfully,  at  my  long  silence. 
But  I  am  sure  that  when  you  have 
heard  my  tale  of  woe  there  will  be 
nothing  but  sympathy  in  your  heart 
for  your  old  pal. 

To  put  it  in  plain  English,  Katherine, 
Fm  down  and  out.  IVe  fought  it  off 
all  the  year,  but,  yesterday,  when  I 
went  to  pieces  and  cried  before  my  class 
and  the  supervisor  whom  I  most  par- 
ticularly loathe,  I  knew  that  it  was  no 
use  trying  any  longer.  I  went  to  Dr. 
Drake  and  his  verdict  was  sharp  and 
uncompromising,  "Get  out  of  the  school- 
room and  out  of  Chicago  and  rest  abso- 
lutely for  a  year.*'  Sounds  easy,  doesn't 
it?  How  could  I  tell  him  that  I  had 
just  fifty  dollars  in  the  world  and  no- 
where to  go  for  a  year's  rest? 

Do  you  remember  the  air-castles  we 
used  to  build  back  in  the  old  college 
days  ?  It  makes  me  fairly  weep  when  I 
look  back.  I  didn't  aspire  to  the  pres- 
idency of  my  Alma  Mater,  but  I  did 
truly  hope  to  do  something' worth  while; 
and  now,  behold  me,  at  the  end  of  five 
years,  with  my  college  debt  barely  off 
my  hands  and  nothing  to  show  for  the 
years  but  my  fifty  dollars  and  a  worn- 
out  nervous  system.  Life  has  been  a 
succession  of  grades  and  tests  and 
Teacher's  Meetings  and  Supervisors, 
and,  in  the  summers,  a  special  course 
somewhere. 

I  didn't  mean  to  whine,  but  *Im  not 
the  Jean  you  used  to  know,  who  could 
laugh  at  anything  and  see  the  bright 
side  of  every  worry.  I  am  going  to  our 
old  home  town  in  Ohio  where  my  sister, 
Peggy,  is  stenographer  in  a  wholesale 
grocery.     After   I   have   seen   her   and 


planned  something  definite  I'll  write  you 
again.  Until  then  believe  me  yoiur 
faithful  but  good-for-nothing  chum, 

Jean. 
Fairhaven,  O.,  June,  1911. 
My  dear  Katherine: 

You  have  been  very  patient  to  accept 
those  postals  instead  of  the  long  letters 
you  deserved;  and  now  you  are  to  be 
rewarded,  for  this  epistle  is  to  tell  you 
**all  about  everything"  as  you  so  plain- 
tively entreat. 

When  I  arrived  in  B —  'the  last  of 
March,  I  was  too  exhausted  to  do  any- 
thing but  lie  around  in  Peggy's  little 
room  while  she  was  away  at  work. 
Then,  finally,  one  Saturday  afternoon  we 
took  a  trolley-ride  out  to  the  place 
which  was  left  to  us  by  my  grandfather. 
It  is  a  tiny  place  —  only  ten  acres  — 
and  is  ten  miles  from  town  and  half 
a  mile  from  the  car-line.  There  is  no 
tenant  on  it  this  year  and  Peggy  said 
she  thought  we  ought  to  go  and  look 
after  it  a  little.  It  was  a  beautiful 
April  day  and  the  country  was  so  fresh 
and  green  all  along  the  way.  When  we 
got  to  the  place.  Grandmother's  yellow 
Easter  flowers  were  blooming  under  the 
front  window  and  down  by  the  gate  the 
big  lilac  bush  was  in  bud.  The  heav- 
enly quiet  seemed  too  good  to  be  true 
and  as  we  sat  down  on  the  porch,  I 
heaved  a  big  sigh.  **If  I  could  only 
spend  the  year  here,  Peg,"  I  began,  but 
she  interrupted  me  with  a  quiet,  "Well 
why  not?" 

She  came  over  and  laid  her  piu'se  in 
my  lap.     **Count  it."  she  said. 

"Seven  dollars  and  twenty-one  cents," 
I  answered,  after  a  pause,  "but  what  of 
it?" 

"Just  this,"  she  answered,  "I  worked 
hard  every  day  last  month  from  eight 
o'clock  till  five  and,  after  I  had  paid  for 
my  room  and  board  and  laundry  and 

673 


674 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


carfare  and  a  few  other  things,  this  is 
what  I  had  left  to  show  for  it  —  except 
the  trifle  I  manage  to  put  by  each 
month.  I've  worked  seven  years  and 
I  have  about  three  hundred  dollars 
saved  out  of  it.     How  much  have  you?*' 

**Twenty-eight,"  I  answered  meekly. 

''Good!"  said  Peg  briskly,  "That 
ought  to  keep  us  out  here  for  a  year  and 
we  can  camp  out  beautiftdly."  As  we 
rode  back  to  town  in  the  dusk  she  out- 
lined her  plans;  she  insisted  that  the 
farm  idea  was  an  inspiration,  but  as 
I  listened  to  her  carefully  laid  plans,  and 
especially  when  I  found  that  she  had. 
resigned  her  position,  tentatively,  a 
fortnight  before,  I  knew  that  the  inspir- 
ation was  one  of  rather  long  standing. 
But  I  was  in  the  mood  to  accept  the 
sacrifice  gratefully  and  profit  as  much 
as  possibly  by  it. 

We  brought  Grandmother's  furniture 
from  town,  where  it  has  been  stored  in 
Uncle  Ned's  attic,  and  soon  we  had 
things  looking  like  home.  Peg,  who 
is  business  manager,  set  to  work  garden- 
ing with  the  advice  of  a  friendly  neigh- 
bor and  I  help  and  enjoy  it,  too.  But 
my  special  charge  is  a  flock  of  fifty 
motherless  chickens,  which  Peg  bought 
of  a  poultry  dealer  in  town  and  turned 
over  to  me  to  bring  up.  Say,  Kit,  do 
you  remember  the  time  that  Dolly 
Martin  came  back  for  re-union  and 
brought  the  twins?  She  flew  around 
distractedly  with  a  harassed  frown  on  her 
face,  in  one  hand  a  nursing-bottle  and 
in  the  other  Dr.  Somebody's  "Care  and 
Feeding  of  Infants."  Well,  I'm  Dolly 
these  days,  only  my  text-book  is  the 
"Practical  Poultry-man".  I've  lost  only 
five  and  I  think  they're  over  the  worst 
now.  Do  you  know,  I  think  I'll  estab- 
lish a  sanitarium  for  neurasthenics  some 
day  and  give  every  patient  a  few  lively 
chickens  to  look  after.  If  a  day  of  that 
exercise  doesn't  bring  refreshing  slumber, 
the  patient  shall  be  declared  hopeless. 

But  Peggy  has  just  reported  a  ripe 
strawberry  and  I  can't  talk  to  you  any 
more  just  now.     Don't  worry  any  more 


about  me.     I'm  eating  and  sleeping  and 
working,  and  I'm  happy. 

Jean. 
Fairhaven,  September,  1911. 
Dear  Kit : 

Once  more  I  must  say  "Forgive  me". 
Many  tines  I  have  thought  of  you,  but 
the  weeks  have  been  fidl  of  things  cry- 
ing to  be  done.  With  this  brief  apology, 
I'll  plimge  at  once  into  my  quarterly 
report. 

Item  1.  Peggy  and  I  have  gone  into 
business.  You  will  remember  that  I 
closed  my  June  letter  with  the  announce- 
ment that  strawberries  were  ripe;  there 
were  not  very  many  for  the  patch  had 
run  out,  but  my  child,  you  should  have 
seen  the  currants  and  cherries  and  all  the 
rest.  When  things  began  to  ripen,  Peg 
sized  up  the  situation  with  her  usual 
lightning  rapidity  and  like  the  famous 
Col.  Sellers  she  saw  "millions  in  it". 
So  one  day  she  went  up  to  town  and 
came  back  joyful,  with  a  lot  of  Jelly- 
glasses  and  jars  and  a  long  list  of  orders 
from  leading  citizens.  We  have  made 
all  sorts  of  delicious  things,  for  she  is  a 
bom  cook  and  I  have  occasional  moments 
of  inspiration,  myself.  We  work  fore- 
noons and  rest  afternoons  and  it  is  not 
nearly  so  hard  as  you  might,  and  possibly 
do,  imagine.  And  isn't  it  fine  that  I 
can  help  make  money  while  I'm  taking 
the  rest-cure? 

Item  II.  Peggy  begs  me  to  state 
that  your  solicitude  as  to  our  social 
life  hit  her  funny-spot.  She  says  it  is 
very  evident  that  you  have  never  lived 
on  an  attractive  farm  within  easy  dis- 
tance from  a  thriving  town.  To  tell 
the  truth,  we  could  have  a  continuotis 
house-party,  if  we  chose,  which  we  don't. 
We  have  some  ideas  along  that  line, 
which  I  will  divulge  to  you  as  they 
mature.  So  far  we  have  been  busy 
cultivating  our  neighbors.  They  were 
a  bit  shy  of  us,  at  first,  but  many  of  them 
knew  and  loved  Grandmother  and  that 
helped.  And  then  nobody  could  long 
resist  Peg's  open-hearted  advances. 
There  is  a  little  Sunday-school  in  the 


THE  NERVE-CURE 


675 


school-house  and  we  choose  to  help 
there  rather  than  to  pass  by  it  and  take 
the  car  in  to  town  for  church.  I  shall 
go  as  soon  as  I  feel  well  enough,but  Peggy 
is  already  established  as  organist  and 
some  of  the  girls  are  begging  for  a  choir. 
Folks  are  beginning  to  drop  in,  in  a 
friendly  way,  and  it  is  so  homey  to  feel 
that  you  really  have  neighbors. 

Supper  is  ready  and  I  must  stop. 
No,  Tm  not  a  bit  homesick  for  school  as 
you  thought  Fd  be.  Jean. 

Fairhaven,  December,  1911. 
Dear  Katherine : 

It  is  seven  o'clock  and  supper  is  a 
thing  of  the  dim  dead  past.  All  the 
children  in  the  neighborhood  are  out 
coasting  on  Hunter's  hill,  and,  if  you 
knew  my  sister,  there  wotdd  be  no  need 
to  tell  you  that  she  is  with  them,  and 
Tm  afraid  that  I,  myself,  cannot  resist 
beyond  tonight.  After  a  while  they 
will  come  in  and  after  the  cooky  jar  is 
quite  emptied  they  will  practise  Christ- 
mas carols  for  the  Sunday-school  enter- 
tainment. I  am  alone  with  a  cheerful 
basebumer  and  my  thoughts.  Lonely? 
No,  not  tonight.  It  would  be  folly, 
*!  think,  to  say  that  I  have  not  been 
lonely  at  times  since  confting  out  here; 
but  oh,  my  dear,  the  lonliness  of  the 
country  is  as  nothing  compared  with 
the  loneliness  of  the  crowd.  Last  win- 
ter, when  I  was  sick  and  among  strangers, 
I  used  often  to  say  to  myself, 
**I  care  for  nobody,  no,  not  I, 
And  nobody  cares  for  me.'* 
Of  course,  I  was  morbid,  but  after  all 
among  all  my  acquaintances  there  was 
no  one  to  whom  I  mattered  very  much. 

But  to  go  back  to  tonight;  I  have 
been  busy  this  evening  working  up  a 
debate  on  Woman  Suffrage  for  the 
Civics  Discussion  Club,  which  meets  at 
the  school-house  on  Friday  nights.  I 
was  a  bit  fussed  when  they  put  me  on 
the  team,  but  acting  on  Peggy's  prin- 
ciple of  being  neighborly,  I  accepted; 
and,  being  the  only  woman  represented, 
I'm  determined  to  do  myself,  my  sex 
and  my  subject  justice.      We  got  an 


arm-load  of  books  at  the  City  Library 
last  week  and  I  have  been  digging  into 
them  with  Peggy's  help. 

I  almost  forgot  one  important  item, 
namely,  my  precious  chickens  have  be- 
gun to  lay.  Don't  you  envy  us  our 
fresh  eggs  for  breakfast?  And  I  am 
working  up  a  small  private  trade  in 
town.  I  ship  the  eggs  by  parcel  post 
the  day  they  are  laid  and,  of  course, 
get  the  top-notch  prices. 

But  here  come  the  coasters  and  there 
will  be  no  more  letter-writing  tonight, 
With  much  love  Jean. 

Fairhaven,  April,  1912. 

We  are  going  to  stay  for  good.  Kit, 
and  my  pen  is  almost  too  excited  to 
write  the  news.  We  were  talking  over 
our  plans  last  night  and  we  found  that 
neither  of  us  could  bear  to  go  back. 
Peggy  was  born  for  this  sort  of  thing; 
as  for  me,  I  am  afriad  to  go  back  to  the 
school-room,  and,  beside,  I  don't  want 
to.  I  have  been  so  happy  here  and  am 
so  well  and  strong.  And  most  of  all, 
Katherine,  it's  the  home  life  that  appeals 
to  me.  I  am  sick  of  hall-bedrooms  and 
boarding-house  meals  and  I  want  a 
home  of  my  own  with  Peggy. 

From  a  business  stand-point  we've 
made  a  success  of  this  first  year.  We* 
have  made  all  expenses  and  our  original 
fund  would  have  remained  intact,  if 
we  hadn't  decided  that  we  need  a  horse 
and  wagon.  Our  hearts  cried  out  for 
a  phaeton,  but  common  sense  dictated 
a  road- wagon;  so  when  you  come  to  see 
us  you  may  go  with  me  to  deliver  our 
orders.  And  unless  you've  changed 
greatly  from  the  Kit  I  used  to  know, 
you'll  revel  in  the  experience. 

We  are  going  to  enlarge  the  chicken 
business.  B —  has  its  first  tea-room 
just  started  and  we  are  to  supply  the 
eggs  and  various  other  things.  Peg 
has  a  lot  of  new  customers  added  to  last 
year's  list,  so  we  will  be  busy  and  pros- 
perous. We  know  a  teacher  in  town 
who  needs  a  home  for  the  summer  about 
as  much  as  I  did  last  year  and  she  is 
coming  to  stay  with  us  and  help  for  her 


676 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


board.     So  you  see,  nobody  expects  to 
work  all  the  time. 

We  have  lots  of  plans  on  foot  —  house- 
parties  from  town,  week-ends  for  girls 
who  need  the  change,  and  lots  of  good 
times  for  everybody.  We  are  working 
hard  for  a  County  Young  Women's 
Christian  Association  and  Peg  says  that, 


if  we  can't  get  it,  we'll  make  one  of  our 
own. 

We  are  looking  forward  with  much 
eagerness  to  June,  when  you  are  to 
come  and  be  introduced  to  our  farm. 
Perhaps  you,  too,  will  want  to  stay, 
when  you  see  hoy,^  altogether  lovely  it  is. 
Till  then,  Goodby,  Jean. 


The  Marriage  of  Emily 

By  Helen  Forrest 


MY  niece,  Emily,  was  married  to 
the  Burton  boy  at  eight,  o'clock 
this  evening.  There  was  noth- 
ing unusual  about  the  wedding,  only  a 
lack  of  the  solemnity  which  seems  to 
me  to  belong  to  such  an  occasion.  I 
feel  that  more  dignity  and  less  ostenta- 
tion was  due  my  mother's  wedding  veil 
which  Emily  wore  draped  cap-fashion 
over  her  blonde  hair.  I  could  have 
wished  the  Burton  boy  a  shade  less  tall 
or  Emily  a  trifle  taller,  that  the  difference 
in  their  height  might  not  have  been  so 
obvious.  I  felt  that  their  vows  might 
well  have  been  exchanged  in  a  church 
and  not  in  that  great  reception  hall,  but 
there  is  a  charm  in  youthful  romance  and 
the  lovers  are  so  happy  that  we  must 
rejoice  with  them. 

Oh,  the  wedding  was  a  credit  to  my 
capable  sister,  the  bride's  mother;  it  is 
my  own  position  in  the  matter  which 
makes  me  wakeful.  In  fact,  it  is  one 
o'clock,  and  I  have  been  for  two  hours 
in  this  comfortable  room  and  I  have  just 
realized  that  I  am  still  in  my  gala  gown 
—  I  haven't  even  taken,  off  my  gloves. 
Emily  is  my  namesake,  I  brought  up 
her  mother,  my  youngest  sister;  the 
child  is  very  dear  to  me,  and  it  has  been 
my  desire  to  transmit  to  her  some  of 
our  ancestral  ideals,  our  literary  and 
artistic  ambitions, to  engraft  a  touch  from 
leisurely  Farmington  to  this  charming 
product  of  a  rushing  New  York  suburb. 


Thus  it  is  that  I  view  with  a  degree  of 
disappointment  her  marriage  with  the 
Burton  boy,  whose  family  country 
place  adjoins  my  home.  I  cannot  share 
the  unbounded  satisfaction  so  plainly 
evidenced  by  the  family  connection. 
What  ideals  remain  for  little  Emily, 
so  merrily  wedded  to  this  cheerful  son 
of  money-makers,  himself  a  surprisingly 
successful  business  man. 

And  here  is  my  amazing  position.  I, 
Emily  Whittington,  am  smilingly  con- 
gratulated, jestingly  greeted  as  a  suc- 
cessful match-nfaker. 

Cousin  Mary  Pells,  always  to  me  a 
most  uncongenial  addition  to  our  fam- 
ily circle,  actually  told  me  she  wished 
I  would  take  her  daughter  abroad  and 
find  her  a  Billy  Biu-ton.  My  good 
brother-in-law,  whose  money  overflows 
generously  even  in  my  imwilling  direc- 
tion, said,  **Emily,  I  can't  get  over  the 
killing  fact  that  it  is  you  and  not  Emily's 
mother,  you,  Emily,  the  dreamer,  and  not 
Mary,  the  schemer,  who  did  this  thing, 
so  good  a  thing  that  I  won't  blame  you 
for  losing  me  my  little  girl." 

Even  the  Burton  boy,  when  with  heart 
and  eyes  full  I  was  led  up  to  congratulate 
the  two  over  whom  the  solemn  words 
had  just  been  said,  lifted  me  off  my 
feet,  me,  Emily  Whittington,  kissed  me 
heartily  and  said,  **Dear  little  Aunt 
Emily,  you  did  this  for  us  and  we  shall 
bless  you  all  our  days." 


THE  MARRIAGE  OF  EMILY 


677 


Actually  my  brain  whirls  and  I  have 
been  trying  to  view  the  facts  how  and 
where  did  it  come  about,  and  what  was 
my  part  in  the  marrying  of  Emily! 

I  must  stop,  just  here  and  forever,  the 
habit  of  referring  to  Emily's  husband  as 
the  Burton  boy.  She  requests  me  to 
call  him  Billy,  but  I  shall  compromise  on 
William;  really  he  is  twenty-five,  and 
I  should  forget  the  years  in  which  he 
ran  through  my  flower  beds  and  raided 
my  fruit  trees.  He  really  is  and  has 
been  a  good  boy ;  his  spirits  have  always 
been  high. 

Emily's  parents  had  given  me  freely 
the  joy  of  her  presence ;  it  was  first  com- 
ing to  Grandpa's  house,  then  too  soon 
it  was  to  Aunt  Emily's  house  —  for 
I  was  left  alone.  The  Burton  boy  played 
cond  scendingly  with  her;  he  is  six 
vears  her  senior,  and  what  bov  of  four- 
tean  cares  for  a  girl  of  eight !  I  remem- 
ber that  they  broke  several  windows 
while  playing  ball ;  he  was  teaching  her 
to  throw  over  hand,  and  she  invariably 
failed  to  catch  the  ball  when  it  was 
thrown  to  her. 

He  was  an  only  and  a  lonely  boy,  was 
Billy  boy,  how  he  disliked  this  name, 
which  clung  to  him  even  when  his  little 
boy  days  were  over,  and  so  charming 
a  child  was  Emily  that  he  forgave  her 
years. 

It  was  absurd  of  the  Burtons  to  have 
their  son  educated  abroad;  how  seldom 
their  big  place  was  opened  while  Eton 
and  Oxford  were  failing  to  make  him 
an  Englishman.  I  do  not  know  a  more 
thorough  American  than  my  recently 
acquired  nephew. 

But,  once  more,  to  attempt  an  analysis 
of  my  position  as  matchmaker,  a  term 
so  suddenly  and  so  gratefully  applied 
to  me. 

When  I  asked  Emily  to  visit  me  in 
June,  shortly  after  her  graduation  from 
a  superficial  finishing  school,  it  was  my 
hope  to  stimulate  her  interest  in  the 
world  of  Art,  which  she  and  I  were  to 
enter  in  the  autumn  when  we  should  go 
abroad  together.     I   had  no  idea  that 


the    Burton    boy,    by    which    I    mean 
William,  was  to  be  at  home. 

Emily  and  I  were  in  the  rose  garden 
after  dinner ;  I  remember  I  was  speaking 
of  Nurnberg  and  Albrecht  Durer,  when 
the  Burton  boy  stepped  over  the  hedge, 
greeted  me,  then,  before  Icould  introduce 
her,  turned  to  my  niece  and  exclaimed 
**Why,  you  kre  Emily!"  They  hadn't 
met  for  four  years,  but  she  answered 
readily,  **And  you  are  Billy!" 

As  I  look  back  on  that  fortnight  I 
realize  the  significance  of  Williams  sud- 
den interest  in  Art.  I  frankly  admit 
that,  at  that  time,  I  believed  his  aesthetic 
nature,  hitherto  dormant,  was  experi- 
encing a  renaissance. 

He  joined  us  daily  while  I  discoursed  on 
my  pet  subject  and,  quite  in  the  fashion 
of  years  before,  Billy  and  Emily  became 
fast  friends,  pla>4ng  tennis  * 'after  les- 
sons" and  motoring  over  the  country 
roads. 

I  recall,  also,  the  fact  that  WiUiim's 
presence  at  luncheon  became  so  acce  3ted 
a  fact  that  I  habituallv  ordered  what 
amounted  to  an  early  dinner  instead  of 
the  light  luncheon  I  prefer. 

I  imagine  his  presence  at  the  sailing 
of  our  boat  was  due  to  the  fact  that  he 
called  upon  me  in  Farmington  sometime 
after  Emily's  departure  and  asked  me 
when  and  by  what  boat  we  were  to  sail. 
The  fact  that  my  neighbor  was  on  the* 
pier  to  wish  us  bon  voyage  did  not  seem 
to  me  significiant,  his  fruit  and  flowers 
were  like  those  sent  by  our  other  friends. 
I  remember,  now,  that  he  asked  me 
where  we  should  spend  our  first  month, 
but  I  gave  an  outline  of  our  itinerary  to 
many  friends  that  day,  to  Billy  Burton 
and  to  others.  Cousin  Mary  Pells* 
suggestion  that  I  had  invited  him  to 
follow  us  is,  of  course,  unworthy  of  con- 
sideration. As  I  remember  that  morn- 
ing in  Dresden, a  week  after  our  arrival, 
I  find  that  I  have  relaxed  in  my  chair, 
with  the  psychological  feeling  of  rest 
which  comes  as  a  reward  when  one  has 
arrived  at  the  solution  of  ,a  mental 
problem.      The  memory  stands  firm,  in 


678 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


bright  tinting  like  a  Dresden  post  card. 
How  well  I  have  come  to  know  William ; 
.one  of  his  phrases  rises  predominant  in 
my  mind,  "just  here  I  hit  the  trail." 

Emily  and  I  had  walked. in  the  bright 
blue  weather  of  October,  from  the 
friendly  Pension  where  I  had  so  often 
stayed,  through  the  cheerful  cosmo- 
politan throng  that  filled  the  Reich- 
strasse,  down  to  the  The  Zwingler, 
Dresden's  mighty  gallery.  Emily  walked 
briskly  beside  me,  her  golf -trained  mus- 
cels  give  her  a  springiness  of  motion 
and  seeming  tirelessness ;  her  yellow 
hair  crinkled  under  the  edge  of  her 
Paris  hat;  her  fair  face  seemed  to  glow 
with  the  joy  of  living. 

I  stopped  at  the  entrance,  the  place 
worn  by  the  feet  of  pilgrims  to  this 
shrine  of  Art  seems  to  me  holy  ground. 
Emily's  words  broke  in  upon  my  mood. 
*'To  think,  that  horrid  August  the  Strong, 
built  this  place  just  to  have  an  arena 
for  wild  animals  to  fight.  It*s  lucky 
for  Dresden  that  he  was  diverted  to 
collecting  pictures." 

We  turned  from  the  brilliant  garden 
and  the  gray  old  palace  of  the  Saxon 
kings,  and  climed  the  stone  stairs  of 
the  gallery.  Before  us  were  two  Ger- 
man women  conversing  in  gutteral 
accents,  behind  us,  1  heard  the  crisp 
monologue  of  a  French  voice ;  I  brushed 
the  shoulder  of  a  Japanese;  truly  many 
and  varied  were  the  worshipers  at  this 
shrine. 

It  was  familiar  ground ;  I  went  to  my 
altar,  the  red  hung  room  where  the 
Sistine  Madonna  reigns  alone,  in  calm 
majesty;  the  glory  of  motherhood  shines 
in  her  face,  beyond  the  child  in  her 
arms,  and  blesses  her  worshipers. 

Emily  stood  beside  me,  but  I  had  for- 
gotten her  until  she  whispered,  **Well, 
I'm  glad  I've  seen  her  again,  she's  one 
of  the  people  you  don't  get  tired  of."  My 
niece  left  me  and  turned  into  the  adjoin- 
ing room.  I  saw  her  sit  down  on  one 
of  the  little  couches,  blessed  of  tired 
tourists,  she  opened  the  Museum,  cata- 
logue, took  out  her  gold  pencil  and  began. 


after   her   own   fashion,  to   study   Art. 
Her  charming  head,  bent  over  the  book 
and  absorbed  in  its  contents,  proved  an 
interesting  study  to  many  who  had  como 
to  gaze  at  pictures  of  another  sort.     I 
watched  Emily,  too,  her  study  of  Art 
was  in  deference  to  my  wishes,  the  man- 
ner  of   procedure   was   an  inheritance 
from    her    father,    the    business    man. 
Emily's    method    was    simple,    I    had 
observed  it.     First  ascertain  what  room 
she  was  in.  Room,  A,  B,  C,  or  what  ever 
it  might  be,  then  find  by  the  catalogue 
the  list  of  pictures  hanging  in  this  room. 
First,  examine  any  picture  which  Bae- 
deker had  marked  with  a  star  (his  book 
invariably  accompanied  her),  then  lo- 
cate by  number  any  picture  that  espec- 
ially appealed  to  her,  study  it  a  little 
and  put  a  line  under  it.     On  reaching 
home  it  was  her  little  way  to  go  over 
thelmarks  made  on  her  latest  visit  and 
recall  silently,  or  to  me,  each  picture  as 
she  remembered  it.     I  sighed  for  my 
lost  ideals.     Emily  was  not  to  dream 
with  me,  but  her  system  worked  well, 
she   was   assimilating   and   learning  in 
practical  fashion  as  became  her  father's 
daughter. 

As  I  watched  my  niece,  a  shadow  fell 
between  her  and  the  sunlight;  a  man 
was  speaking  with  her,  and  I  hurried  to 
her  side,  all  the  chaperonc.  As  I  remem- 
ber it,  I  was  not  greatly  surprised  to 
see  the  Burton  boy,  and  I  noted  in  a 
sort  of  sub-consciousness  that  Emily 
seemed  to  find  it  the  most  natural 
thing  possible,  his  sudden  presence  in 
Dresden. 

Cousin  Mary  Pells  would  doubtless 
have  been  cleverer,  but  William's  ap- 
pearance seemed  to  me  a  proof  that  his 
interest  in  Art  was  sincere,  that  I  had 
given  him  something  the  Burton  mil- 
lions could  never  have  bought,  the  love 
of  Art  for  Art's  sake.  He  grasped  my 
hand  with  a  cordiality  which  made  it 
ache,  **Behold  Sherlock  Hobnes,"  he 
whispered,  **I  struck  Dresden  only  an 
hour  ago;  since  then  I've  located  my 
hotel,  been  to  your  Pension,  found  you 


THE  MARRIAGE  OF  EMILY 


679 


were  out  and  promptly  came  to  you  here. 
What's  more,  we  went  directly  to  the 
Sistine  Madonna,  being  sure  you  would 
be  in  her  immediate  locality." 

Emily  had  closed  her  catalogue,  the  air 
of  the  place  seemed  charged,  vitalized. 

**Let's  get  out  of  this,"  said  the  Burton 
boy,  and  we  went  with  him,  Emily 
close  behind  him,  I  following  more 
slowly.  They  waited  for  me  in  the  open, 
I  felt  a  curious  thrill,  even  the  familiar 
fountains,  rising  ghostlike  in  sudden 
jets  banked  in  their  flower  beds,  appeared 
to  take  on  a  new  aspect,  I  was  strangely 
puzzled. 

"Billy  boy,"  I  had  unconsciously 
reverted  to  his  boyish  name  and  he 
laughed,  "I  don't  understand,  how  do 
you  happen  to  be  in  Dresden,  how  did 
you  know  our  Pension,  how  are  Dresden 
and  this  gallery  so  familiar  to  you?" 

"Let  us  take  it  one  at  a  time.  Miss 
Whittington ;"  again  I  felt  the  atmos- 
phere, he  was  now  the  Billy  Boy  of  old 
days,  trying  to  make  it  all  right  after 
some  boyish  mischief.  Emily  my  niece 
was  strangely  silent,  her  eyes  on  her 
catalogue. 

"I  came  to  Dresden  because  you 
people  are  here;  I  knew  your  Pension, 
well,  Emily  happened  to  let  me  know; 
as  for  Dresden,"  he  laughed  quite  nat- 
urally, "I  spent  some  three  weeks  here 
that  year  I  travelled  with  Sjrmington; 
I  had  my  fifteenth  birthday  while  we 
were  here.     You  remember  Symington  ?'  * 

Remember  his  tutor,  indeed  ,1  did,  my 
sympathy  for  that  much  tried  man  had 
stamped  him  on  my  memory. 

"I  know  Dresden  all  right,"  he  went 
on  suddenly  hopeful,  "and  if  you  don't 
mind  a  little  exercise  there's  something 
I  want  to  show  you.  It's  just  here  in 
the  Coiu-t  yard,  through  that  arched 
gate.  The  Grune  Gewolbe,  the  green 
vaults  you  know,  the  Saxon  king's 
treasure  house." 

We  stopped  at  the  deep  walled  en- 
trance of  a  vast  old  building,  a  guide  was 
furnished  us,  a  clever  military  sort  of 
person,  an  excellent  linguist  and  with 


a  huge  golden  key.  He  was  ready  with 
voluble  explanations  in  German  or  in 
French,  his  English  was  more  uncertain, 
but  he  speedily  realized  that  he  was 
merely  our  escort,  our  guide  was  Billy 
Burton,  who  hurried  us  past  garnet- 
studded  clocks,  wonderful  peacocks  with 
countless  jewels  in  their  tails,  the  mar- 
velous treasures  of  the  Saxon  kings. 
Some  day  I  shall  return  to  enjoy  at  my 
leisure  that  priceless  -collection,  again 
the  work  of  August  the  Strong. 

William  was  searching  for  some- 
thing which  he  saw  on  his  last,  trip  and 
which  he  had  remembered  for  ten  years. 
And  now  he  had  found  it,  not  even  an 
original,  merely  a  copy  of  the  Braut- 
becker  of  Numberg,  a  silver  drinking 
cup,  the  quaint  figure  of  a  woman, 
short  of  waist  and  full  of  skirt,  her  little 
arms  holding  above  her  head  a  tiny 
cup  which  swung  on  pivots,  her  bell- 
shaped  skirt  forming  the  second  and 
larger  cup.  And  now,  suddenly,  I  knew, 
oh !  how  blind  I  had  been.  The  room 
swam  before  me. 

The  guide  knew,  a  knowledge  of 
English  was  not  necessary  to  comprehend 
the  look  in  the  eyes  of  the  ffurton  boy 
as  he  lifted  the  frail  cup  in  his  hands 
and  went  on  a  trifle  rapidly,  —  "Emily, 
this  is  the  bride-cup ;  they  used  to  drink 
out  of  it  after  the  ceremony ;  they  must 
drink  out  of  it  at  the  same  time  to  insure 
a  happy  life.  The  little  cup  for  the 
girl,  the  larger  one  for  the  man. 

It  was  sightseeing  of  the  most  ordin- 
ary sort;  his  words  might  have  been 
taken  from  a  guide  book,  but  I  knew,  and 
the  man  with  the  gold  key  knew,  that 
the  moment  was  tense.  Emily  felt  it, 
too,  her  face  was  white,,  and  the  Biuton 
boy  went  on  as  though  he  must,  — 
"Emily,  do  you  think  we  could  drink 
out  of  the  same  cup,  you  and  I?  Will 
you?" 

I  couldn't  have  gone,  though  I  turned 
my  eyes  from  the  glory  in  Emily's  face. 
The  guide  turned  away,  too,  but  I 
heard  her  voice  —  "Billy,  I'd  like  to 
try." 


Breakfast  at  Eight 

By  Quincy  Germaine 


WE  are  six,  altogether,  —  four 
sisters  and  two  cotisins,  — 
Greta,  Nell,  Polly,  Jul,  Pat, 
and  Sue.  I  am  Greta,  the  oldest  of  the 
sisters;  Jul  and  Sue  are  the  cousins.  In 
age  we  range  from  twenty-six  to  nine- 
teen, in  height  from  five  feet  seven  to 
five  feet  two,  in  inverse  relation  to  oiu* 
ages,  for  I  am  the  shortest,  whereas 
Pat  and  Sue  overtop  me  by  a  head.  We 
all  have  light  brown  hair,  eyes  of  vary- 
ing shades  of  grey-blue,  and  the  reput- 
ation of  being  the  livliest  family  for 
miles  around.  By  a  lucky  freak  of  fate 
our  name  is  Holiday.  Our  father,  who 
is  uncle  to  Jul  and  Sue,  is  the  country 
doctor,  so  everybody  knows  **the  Hol- 
iday girls". 

We  live  in  an  out-of-the-way  hamlet  in 
the  midst  of  lovely  country,  where 
nothing  but  the  seasons  ever  changes, 
and  nothing  happens  unless  we  make 
it.  Even  the  trains  pass  through  with- 
out stopping  except  early  in  the  morn- 
ing, —  not  counting  one  that  we  can 
flag  in  the  evening,  —  so  that  anything 
or  anybody  coming  to  us  generally 
appears  with  the  sun.  This  was  the 
circumstance  that  caused  mother  to 
make  her  famous  decision.  She  would 
specialize  in  breakfasts. 

** Everybody  gives  luncheons/'  she 
said.  ** Dinners  are  not  possible  with 
your  father's  irregular  hours.  As  there 
are  not  many  households  where  six  girls 
can  laugh  and  look  pretty  at  eight  in 
the  morning  pr  earlier,  breakfast  it 
shall  be." 

And  breakfast  it  was  from  that  time, 
which  was  the  day  of  our  first  invasion, 
following  the  rettim  of  Nell  and  Polly 
from  a  fraternity  Prom  and  houseparty. 

I  had  seconded  the  decision  enthus- 
iastically, when  mother  consulted  me,  for 
if  she  plans  a  thing,  she  knows  how  to 


carry  it  to  a  triumphant  climax.  Mother 
was  city-bred  and  had  been  a 
great  belle  before  her  marriage.  Father 
always  said  she  knew  more  about  hu- 
man failings  than  he  with  his  enormous 
practice.  But  after  four  years  of  per- 
fectly marvelous  breakfasts  we  began  to 
realize  that  we  had  underestimated  her 
ability.  Alladin  and  his  lamp,  Franklin 
and  the  lightening,  Mr.  Marconi  and 
his  Hertzian  waves  weren't  in  it  with 
mother  and  her  breakfasts. 

When  the  train  whistled  at  the  Junc- 
tion, she  would  descend  the  stairs  in  her 
fresh  white  pique,  glance  at  the  table 
on  her  wav  to  the  kitchen  and  remedy 
any  oversight  of  the  one  who  had  set 
it  half  an  hour  before  Then  she  would 
appear  in  the  door,  smile  at  the  daughter 
or  niece  who  was  serving  her  turn  that 
morning,  and  —  well,  somehow,  by 
the  time  the  expected  guest  was  on  the 
porch,  being  greeted  by  the  one  he  had 
come  to  see,  the  coffee  was  steaming, 
the  toast  and  muffins  brown,  waffles 
ready  for  the  iron,  eggs,  tomatoes,  chops, 
or  bacon  on  the  platter,  and  mother  was 
in  her  place  at  the  head  of  the  table, 
just  as  cool  and  fresh  as  when  she  had 
come  down  the  stairs.  When  our  gu^t 
had  scraped  ever5rthing  but  the  pattern 
from  his  plate,  —  our  guests  were  al- 
ways men,  for  the  girls  who  came  stayed 
so  long  we  called  them  part  of  the  family, 
—  she  would  suggest  a  walk  in  the  gar- 
den or  a  visit  to  the  bees.  I  believe,  if 
she  had  asked  him  to  wash  the  windows, 
he  would  have  obeyed  with  equal  alac- 
rity. 

No  one  could  eat  one  of  mother's 
breakfasts  and  remain  on  solid  groimd. 
He  was  simply  transported  As  proof 
of  it,  I  know  for  a  fact  that  fifteen  men 
have  proposed  in  the  garden  after  one 
of  those  feasts,  —  not  all  together,  oi 


680 


BREAKFAST  AT  EIGHT 


681 


course,  or  at  the  same  time,  but  scattered 
along  at  respectable  intervals  in  the 
four  years  and  among  the  six  girls. 
'Fifteen  men**  sounds  like  two  apiece 
and  three  over.  In  reality,  it  was  three 
apiece,  with  me  left  over.  My  first  and 
only  proposal  came  and  was  accepted 
before  the  other  girls  had  received  any 
of  theirs.  The  man,  in  my  case,  was  way 
out  West  in  a  mine,  and  I  had  been 
waiting  six  years  in  hope  of  his  being 
sent  to  a  place  where  I  could  go,too. 
The  night  Henry  Fiske  telephoned  Jul 
that  he  would  be  with  us  for  breakfast 
in  the  morning,  I  was  feeling  pretty  blue. 
No  letter  from  the  West  had  reached 
me  for  nearly  two  weeks,  so  I  welcomed 
some  excitement  to  keep  me  from  worry- 
ing. 

It  was  my  turn  to  help  in  the  kitchen 
that  week,  therefore,  I  was  the  first  one 
up  next  day.  As  I  unlocked  the  front 
door  and  stepped  out  into  the  warm 
July  sunshine,  I  almost  fell  over  a  man 
sitting  on  the  edge  of  the  porch. 

"Good  morning,"  he  said,  rising  to 
about  six  feet  of  blondness,  **is  Miss 
Holiday  at  home?" 

He  wasn't  Henry  —  of  that  I  was 
sure.  I  had  seen  Henry  plenty  of  times. 
This  person  was  a  perfect  stranger. 

"Which  Miss-  Holiday?"  I  asked, 
after  some  seconds  of  frantic  'thought. 
The  question  was  so  habitual  that  I 
didn't  realize  I  had  spoken  till  I  heard 
the  familiar  words. 

He  looked  scared. 

"Miss  —  er  —  Ellen ?  —  er,  Eleanor  — 
She  was  called  Nell,"  he  stammered. 
"We  visited  the  Bradley s  in  the  same 
party.  My  name  is  Parker.  I  was 
passing  through  here  on  a  business  trip, 
and  meant  to  wait  at  the  hotel  till  a 
decent  hour —  " 

"And  foimd  there  was  no  hotel," 
I  interrupted,  sorry  for  his  embarrass- 
ment. "Won't  you  come  in?  I'll  call 
her.  All  our  friends  come  at  this  hour. 
The  morning  trains  each  way  are  the 
only  ones  we  have." 

I  left  him  in  the  parlor,  somewhat  com- 


forted, and  flew  for  Nell.  Polly,  who 
was  up  by  that  time,  promised  to  help 
me.  We  were  already  putting  another 
plate  on  the  table  when  Nell  descended 
the  stairs,  her  bangles  clanking,  as 
usual,  with  every  move  she  made. 

"We  might  have  expected  this," 
Polly  remarked,  as  Mr.  Parker's  voice 
reached  us  from  the  parlor,  "a  holiday 
in  the  middle  of  the  week  always  means 
an  extra." 

"Holiday  of  Holidays,"  I  answered, 
quoting  father's  favorite  remark.  Just 
then  the  bell  rang.  "There's  Henry 
now.     Let  him  in,  will  you?"  I  added. 

Polly  dashed  out  but  was  back  in  a 
second,  wide-eyed. 

"He  wants  Pat,"  she  exclaimed.  "I 
put  him  on  the  side  porch.  He's  that 
Mr.  Beech  who  was  here  Washington's 
Birthday." 

"They  both  must  have  come  on  the 
first  train,"  I  reflected.  "Tell  Pat,  and 
call  Sue  to  help  us.  There's  the  down 
train  whistling  now.  See  if  mother  is 
ready." 

Mother  came  in  as  Polly  went  out. 
We  put  on  our  pink  aprons  while  Pat's 
heels  were  clattering  down  the  stairs, 
and  we  heard  her  laughter  greeting  Mr. 
Beech  on  the  side  porch.  Then  Polly 
rejoined  us,  with  Sue. 

"Isn't  this  thrilling!"  crowed  the 
later.  "I'll  take  off  some  honey  if  you 
say  so.     The  hives  are  full." 

"Yes,"  agreed  mother,  "and  Polly 
must  get  some  more  sweet-peas.  That 
big  table  needs  plenty  of  flowers." 

"Keep  an  eye  out  for  Henry,"  said  I, 
as  they  went  out  the  door.  Sue  obscured 
in  her  bee- veil.     "Jul  isn't  down  yet." 

Jul  was  down  the  next  minute.  She 
always  dawdled  on  the  top  stairs  and 
came  over  the  rest  with  a  run.  This 
morning  the  run  extended  to  the  kit- 
chen, where  she  arrived,  breathless. 

"Guess  what  Henry's  bringing,"  she 
announced.  "I  saw  them  from  my 
window.     The   Coolidge  twins!" 

"Where  are  they  now?"  demanded 
mother. 


682 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


''Coming  across  the  fields  slowly. 
They'll  be  here  in  five  minutes."  She 
went  back  toward  the  front  of  the  house, 
pausing  at  the  door  to  ask,  "Breakfast 
at  eight,  as  usual?" 

** Breakfast  at  eight,  though  the  sky 
falls,"  answered  mother,  a  trifle  grimly 
for  her. 

**Such  a  thing  wouldn't  be  surprising,'' 
I  returned,  putting  the  waffle-iron  on  the 
stove.  **It's  lucky  we're  used  to  emer- 
gencies!" 

"This  isn't  an  emergency,"  she  cor- 
rected, bending  to  look  at  the  muffins, 
"it's  melodrama.  All  that  is  lacking  is 
an  irate  father  and  a  villian  to  carry  off 
the  heroine." 

*.*If  your  villian  is  coming  to  breakfast, 
he'll  have  to  walk  or  fly.  There's  no 
train  this  side  of  the  Junction  till  night." 

"Unless  your  father  finds  him,  help- 
less, by  the  roadside,"  she  reminded, 
referring  to  an  incident  that  had  become 
a  byword. 

"Cheer  up,  mother!  You  might  for- 
give him  after  all  this  time.  It  proved 
to  be  only  a  sunstroke,  you  remember," 

"A  young  man  delirious  in  the  house 
with  six  giris  is  something  I  cannot  for- 
give." 

"But  after  that  experience,"  I  re- 
sponded, "even  a  kidnapping  villian 
would  be  tame.  However,  I'm  the 
only  heroine  at  leisure  and  I'm  likely  to 
stay  right  here  for  a  little  while." 

She  shook  her  head  at  the  way  I  said 
that.  I  was  feeling  pretty  lonesome 
with  all  those  men  for  breakfast  and  the 
other  girls  so  excited.  It  isn't  much  fun 
to  hang  over  a  waffle-iron  for  other 
people's  beaux,  after  going  without  a 
letter  for  ten  days.  Before  I  could  fol- 
low up  my  grievance.  Sue  dashed  in  with 
the  honey  and  flowers,  snatched  off 
her  bee- veil  and  exclaimed, 

"Henry  Fiske  and  the  Coolidge  twins! 
Uncle's  coming  down  the  road.  Break- 
fast right  away?" 

"Breakfast  at  eight,"  answered  mother 
glancing  at  the  clock.  It  pointed  to 
twelve  minutes  of  the  hour. 


"Give  father  five  minutes,  "  I  sug- 
gested, "he  deserves  it.  He's  been  to 
that  menengitis  case  over  at  the  Junc- 
tion." 

She  went  to  the  window  as  father 
drove  into  the  yard  and  went  by  to  the 
bam.  When  she  turned  round  she 
looked,  —  for  the  first  time  in  my  life, 
anyhow,  —  absolutely  stem. 

"Not  five  minutes,  nor  even  one,'' 
she  said  firmly.  "Breakfast  will  be  at 
eight  and  he  must  be  ready.  Your 
father  has  brought  somebody  with  him." 

"Enter  the  villian,"  I  retorted  as  I 
laid  still  another  place  on  the  elongated 
table.  "I  guess  you're  right,  mother. 
This  is  the  finish  of  the  heroine.  Six! 
Whew!" 

Sidewise,  through  the  window,  I  could 
see  Pat  and  Mr.  Beech  on  the  porch. 
Beyond  them,  out  by  the  grape-arbor, 
Jul,  Sue,  and  Polly  were  standing  with 
Henry  and  the  twins.  The  girls  all 
had  on  white  dresses,  and  the  whole 
crowd  had  been  decorating  one  another 
with  roses.  Presently  they  began  a 
battle  with  the  flowers  and  their  shrieks 
of  glee  brought  Nell  and  Mr.  Parker 
out  of  the  house. 

"Greta,"  said  mother. 

I  roused  with  a  guilty  start. 

"Go,  call  you  father."  She  pointed  to 
the  clock.  Everything  was  ready  except 
the  waffles,  and  she  poured  the  first  of 
those  on  the  hot  iron  as  she  spoke. 
"Hurry.     I'll  be  taking  things  in." 

I  hurried.  Anything  to  get  away 
from  that  bridal-looking  bunch  on  the 
lawn.  Without  even  taking  off  my 
apron,  I  ran,  down  the  path,  out  by  the 
apiary  and  chicken-houses,  toward  the 
barn  where  the  automobile  was  still 
chug-chugging.  Father  met  me  at  the 
door.  He  was  smiling,  and  the  twinkle 
in  his  eye  was  not  what  I  had  expected 
to  see,  after  his  being  out  all  night. 

"Breakfast  at  eight,"  I  said  briefly. 

"Room  for  one  more?"  he  inquired, 
jerking  his  head  toward  the  gloom  of 
the  barn.  "I  picked  him  up  over  at  the 
Junction." 


THE  GARDEN  OF  EDEN 


6^3 


Then  a  man  came  forward  into  the 
light. 

"A  villian,  to  carry  off  the  heroine." 
Mother's  words  flashed  through  my 
mind.  Flashed,  —  that  was  all.  Every 
other  thought  was  swept  away  when  I 
saw  his  face.     I  just  stared  and  stared. 

The  man  coming  to  me  out  of  the 
shadows  of  the  barn  was  the  one  who 
had  been  out  West  six  long  years,  who 
had  kept  me  waiting  for  a  letter  ten 
interminable  days.  He  found  me  in  the 
barnyard,  in  a  pink  apron,  and  with  my 
face  all  hot  from  getting  breakfast  for 
other  girls*  beaux ! 

When  my  powers  of  speech  and  action 
returned,  I  stammered  out  one  word, 
** Waffles!"     Grabbing  his  hand  for  fear 


he  might  vanish  again  as  suddenly  as 
he  had  come,  I  started  on  a  dead  run  for 
the  back  door. 

The  bridal  party  was  still  whe're  they 
had  been  before,  but  broken  into  couples 
now  and  scattering  through  different 
paths  of  the  garden.  At  the  door,  when 
we  reached  it,  was  mother,  calm  as 
usual,  but  with  an  odd  and  subtle  smile. 

*'Waffles,"  I  mumbled,  conscience- 
stricken,  but  not  half-  as  sorry  as  I 
should  have  been. 

She  hesitated  only  an  instant,  while 
her  smile  (which  was  always  serenely 
sweet)  grew  broader. 

"The  waffles  are  done  and  eaten," 
she  said.  "Breakfast  was  at  eight.  It 
is  now  quarter  past  nine." 


The  Garden  of  Eden 

By  Mrs.  Charles  Norman 


THE  Garden  of  Eden,  of  which  I 
would  tell  you,  does  not  lie  in  the 
valley  of  Euphrates,  but  a  few 
miles  back  from  the  Ohio  in  an  ordinary 
piece  of  ground  at  the  rear  of  a  dwelling. 
It  contains  no  marks  of  beauty,  is  sur- 
rounded by  no  picturesque  wall  or  bow- 
ers of  verdure.  It  is  a  plot  of  earth, 
nothing  more:  and  yet  it  is  distinctly 
remembered  that  early  last  summer, 
when  the  owner  of  the  ground  disap- 
peared and  was  sought  —  he  rose  in  the 
midst  of  the  garden  in  a  manner  sug- 
gesting a  resurrection,  and  called  out 
solemnly:  "This  is  Paradise". 

All  that  Paradise  contained,  at  that 
time,  was  a  few  lines  of  something  green- 
three  different  shades,  pea  green,  lettuce 
green  and  onion  green;  very  youthful 
products,  fresh  and  clean!  Yet  Eden 
actually  existed  for  that  man;  for  the  air 
was  sweet,  the  birds  were  singing,  the 
soil  was  mellow,the  weeds  had  not  begun 
their  growth,  and  the  man  had  a  hoe  and 
was  helping  Nature  perform  her  mira- 
cles. It  was  plain  to  see  how  the  magic 
worked, 


I  wish  I  could  go  on  and  tell  you  more 
of  this  talc  without  hearing  the  sneers  of 
those  earth-born  mortals  who  scorn 
Mother  Earth.  But  I  hear  them  and  I 
see  the  smile  of  the  cynic  and  some  highly 
"practical"  individuals  who  demand  to 
know  how  the  man's  garden  turned  out. 
I  will  be  very  bold  to  answer  that  ques- 
tion, that  in  my  opinion  it  turned  out 
when  the  worker  began  to  feel  good. 
It  seems  to  me  a  highly  sensible  thing 
to  cherish  every  moment  of  bliss  and  to 
open  every  avenue  to  true  happiness. 

But  if  anyone  desires  mc  to  admit  that 
this  man's  Eden  was  only  partially  sat- 
isfying and  not  all  a  garden  might  be  — 
I  willingly  concede  it.  This,  however, 
is  only  the  negative  side,  and  everyone 
knows  that  expert  gardeners  have  spent 
years  at  their  job. 

Nevertheless,  the  garden  had  turned 
out  before  any  products  were  carried 
into  the  kitchen  or  the  potatoes  were 
dry.  The  Garden  of  Eden  was  not  a 
market  garden,  and  this  article  is  not 
intended  as  a  farmer's  guide.  There 
are  many  rational  people  bravely  doing 


684 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


their  tasks  in  cities  and  getting  along 
the  best  they  can  with  narrow  quarters 
and  missing  the  restorative  contact 
with  nature.  It  is  they,  to  whom  I 
would  send  hope.  There  are  many 
persons  in  smaller  cities  who  are  not 
utilizing  the  soil  to  which  they  have 
access,  are  not  adding  anything  to  the 
productivity  or  beauty  of  the  earth  or 
learning  any  of  the  wholesome  truths 
it  teaches. 

I  read  in  the  newspaper  of  a  com- 
pressed apartment  house  —  something 
new  and  terrible,  which  the  urgency  of 
the  times  has  made  possible  and  the 
genius  of  the  city  has  evolved  from  its 
seething  brain.  It  is  something  which 
will  squeeze  people  a  little  more  — 
a  rent-reducing,  space-saving  contri- 
vance, a  sort  of  patent  by  which  one 
small  room  is,  by  push-button  process, 
convertible  into  a  dining  room,  a  parlor, 
or  a  bed-room.  This  room,  boudoir, 
presence-chamber  and  refectory,  all 
in  one,  is,  with  the  addition  of  a  chafing 
dish,  all  that  is  needed  for  a  small 
family.  Oh,  you  who  have  a  sense  of 
humor,  imagine  a  large  family  in  a 
case  like  that!  But  large  families  are 
not  conceivable,   at  present. 

When  I  read  of  the  compressed  apart- 
ment, I  got  up  and  paced  the  floor, 
until,  by  the  law  of  the  suggestion  of 
opposites,  there  came  to  my  mind  the 
line  from  Genesis: 

"And  they  heard  the  voice  of  the 
Lord  God,  walking  in  the  garden  in 
the  cool  of  the  day.'* 

But  hCf  the  man  in  the  compressed 
apartment,  did  not  walk  in  the  garden! 
I  knew  that.  Neither  did  his  wife  — 
for  the  worst  feature  about  compressed 
apartments  is  that  its  occupants  are 
not  only  compressed  indoors,  but  out. 
If  this  man  and  woman  walked  any- 
where, it  was  to  the  corner  to  catch 
a   car  —  and   more   likely   they   ran. 

Do  you  wonder  I  wish  to  speak  of 
gardens,  when  I  think  of  the  huddling 
in  tenements,  the  huddling  in  flats, 
the  great  rows  of  buildings  set  squarely 


against  the  street,  and  the  vast  and  ever- 
increasing  multitude  who  can  never 
hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord  God  as  he 
walks  in  the  garden  in  the  cool  of  the 
day? 

But  gardening  is  said  to  be  the  fash- 
ion now,  and  there  is  some  evidence  of 
this  in  the  splendid  array  of  new  books 
on  that  subject.  Even  the  seed  cat- 
alogues are  assuming  such  fine  appear- 
ance that,  after  their  spring  arrival, 
they  haunt  otu*  dreams.  Our  first  one 
came,  this  year,  on  January  20,  and 
helped  to  mitigate  the  discomfort  of 
snow  and  ice.  **If  winter  come,  can 
spring  be  far  behind?"  we  asked;  and 
we  proceeded  to  make  out  our  lists  and 
spend  evening  after  evening  planning 
that  wonderful  garden  of  dreams  which 
—  it  must  be  admitted  —  bears  little 
resemblance  to  any  we  have  actually 
had. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,   a   wild-fiowcr 
garden  has  been  my  mania  —  but  our 
place  is  wholly  unsuited,  being  sunny 
and    dry.     On    this   point    and    others 
I  have  been  determined  to  the  point 
of  stubbornness  —  idiocy  maybe.     I  was 
bound  to  raise  asters  and  labored  \^-ith 
them    for   three    years,  with    the   idea 
that  it  was  ignomy  to  fail;  but  in  spite 
of  my  careful  mixtures  of  "sand  and 
lime   and   well-rotted   stable   manure'', 
they  were  nothing.     On  the  other  hand, 
tulips  have  been  the  glory  of  our  hill: 
dahlias   have   been    a    surprise   and  a 
delight,  and  zinnias,  with  no  care  save 
that  they  were  thinned,  made  a  stronsj 
hedge  as  high  as  my  head.     Tell  mc 
that  I  will  discard  zinnias  for  something 
less  coarse,  when  my  taste  improves' 
I   will   not   forsake   my  best   friend  — 
a  flower  that  has  given  us  a  great  mass 
of  fine  color  through  June,  July,  August 
and   September.     This  year   my  heart 
is  set  (and  my  hand  also)  on  tall  stalks 
of  blue  larkspur.     But  I  have  decided 
not  to  be  too  foolish,  but  to  take  the 
advice   of   an   old  gardener   who  said: 
"Have  what  you  want  in  your  garden, 
if  you  can.  If  not,  have  what  you  can/' 


THE  GARDEN  OF  EDEN 


685 


Even  a  dull  person  will  eventually 
learn  some  things.  It  was  my  idea  that 
vegetables  and  flowers  should  grow 
side  by  side,  and  they  can  do  it — but 
there  are  difficulties.  You  know  the 
old  jingle  about  a  garden  well  -  tilled, 
a  wife  well-willed  and  a  table  well 
filled?  It  has  more  truth  than  poetry. 
It  passes  belief  how  much  help  a  small 
garden  may  be,  and  how  superior  the 
vegetables  —  if  they  are  fresh.  Does 
it  not  sound  well,  too,  to  hear  of  a  wife 
going  to  the  garden  in  the  evening  and 
picking  strawberries  or  red  raspberries 
for  breakfast? 

But,  if  possible,  let  us  have  a  space 
somewhere  for  flowers.  **The  beau- 
tiful is  as  useful  as  the  useful  *' 

'*Rose  plot, 

Fringed  pool 
Fem'd  grot, 

The  veriest  school 

Of  Peace;  and  yet  the  fool 
Contends  that  God  is  not. 

Not  God!  In  gardens  when  the  eve  is 
cool? 
Nay,  but  I  have  a  sign; 
*Tis  very  sure  God  walks  in  mine." 

You  will  indulge  me  in  this  much 
poetry,  observing  that,  for  the  most 
part,  I  have  de^lt  only  with  every-day 
things.  I  have  not  urged  pergolas  and 
marble  statues  and  fountains  and  devices, 
such  as  the  Italians  use  with  pleasure 
to  themselves  and  delight  to  others. 
The  Italian  knows  his  need  of  fresh 
fruits  and  vegetables,  and  he  knows  his 
need  of  beauty  and  provides  for  it 
with  remarkable  cleverness.  The  most 
unfortunate  environment  is  made  home- 
like. A  ditch,  which  in  our  country 
would  have  no  utility,  save  to  receive 
tin  cans  and  old  shoes,  easily  becomes, 
by  bridges  and  arches  and  vines,  a 
retreat  to  the  Italian  familv.  Little 
walled-up  spaces  at  the  rear  of  the 
house,  no  landscape  to  them,  just  dear, 
individual,  private  plots  of  ground  — 
these  even  the  poorest  enjoy. 

I  took  a  rail-way  journey  last  summer 


across  three  states  and  I  saw  only  two 
places,  in  all  the  towns,  where  it  seemed 
one  could  sit  down  out-doors  comfort- 
ably, and  in  private,  and  enjoy  a  cup 
of  tea.  I  am  aware  that  railroads  do 
not  traverse  the  best  streets  and  that 
locomotives  are  not  accessories  to  beauty 
and  comfort;'  but  when  all  extenuating 
conditions  are  known,  it  may  still  be 
truly  asserted  that  there  is  no  excuse 
for  such  panoramas  of  ugliness  as  our 
towns  present. 

Conditions  must  decide  the  matter 
of  walls  and  fences.  They  may  be 
unnecessary,  an  impertinence  and  dis- 
figurement. In  cities,  however, —  even 
small  cities  —  it  sometimes  happens  that 
one  cannot  step*  out  the  front  door 
without  being  on  dress  parade;  and  if 
the  back  yard  is  just  an  extension  of 
other  back  yards  and  has  no  barriers 
or  screens,  there  is  no  relief  from 
constant  publicity.  This,  I  contend,  is 
harmful  to  body  and  mind  and  soul. 

City  houses  are  ingenious  in  their 
conveniences.  They  are  so  convenient 
that  life  in  them  is  just  about  reduced 
to  nothing  —  all  the  stalwart  human 
faculties  contracted  —  as  the  stomach 
would  be,  if  all  its  food  were  predigested. 
There  will  always  be  people  who  will 
do  without  necessities,  if  they  can  have 
luxuries,  but  there  arc  others  who  will 
broaden  their  lives,  if  they  can  see 
the  way  to  do  it.  Some  of  them  forego 
conveniences,  rent  a  little  house  way 
off  at  the  end  of  the  car-line  and  then 
move  —  where  they  can  breathe  and 
hoe  cabbages.  And  Madame  does  not 
need  the  foulard  silk,  which  her  indul- 
gent and  admiring  husband  sees  in 
the  store  windows  and  offers  to  bring 
out  to  her;  but  she  tells  the  good  man 
as  sweetly  as  she  can,  that  he  may 
send  her,  instead,  two  big  wagon  loads 
of  good  dirt  which  shall  cover  the 
clay  the  builders  left  around  the  house. 
Then  she  is  ready  to  begin.  Success 
to  you,  my  dear  woman,  and  to  your 
husband,  who  joyfully  helps  in  the 
digging. 


686 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


THE 

BOSTON    COOKING^SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE 


OF 


Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics 


Subscription  $1.00  per  Year  Single  Copies,  10c 
Foreign  Postage  :  To  Canada,  20c  per  Year 
To  other  Foreign  Countries,  40c  per  Year 

TO  SUBSCRIBERS 

The  date  stamped  on  the  wrapper  is  the  date 
on  which  your  subscription  expires;  it  is,  also,  an 
acknowledgment  that  a  subscription,  or  a  renewal 
of  the  same,  has  been  received. 

Please  renew  on  receipt  of  the  colored  blank 
enclosed  for  this  purpose. 

In  sending  notice  to  renew  a  subscription  or 
change  of  address,  please  give  the  old  address 
as  well  as  the  nexo. 

In  referring  to  an  original  entry,  we  must  know 
the  name  as  it  was  formerly  given,  together  with 
the  Post-office,  County,  State,  Post-office  Box, 
or  Street  Number. 

Stattmtni  0/ ownership  and  managtmeni  as  required  by 
ike  Act  0/ CoHgreu  0/  August  24,  igi2. 

Editor:  Janet  M.  Hill. 
Business- Managers:  R.  B.  Hill,  B.  M.  Hill. 

Owners : 

B.  M.  Hill,  Janet  M.  Hill,  R.  B.  Hill. 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

published  ten  times  a  year  by 

The  Boston  Cooking- School  Magazine  Co., 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

Ektkmkd  at  Bon'ON  Piiht-offick  ah  Srcond  ciAXfi  Mattkh 


LITTLE   THINGS 

ONLY  a   forest   streamlet. 
Flowing   where    none   may   see, 
Yet    the   wood-thrush    bathes    in   its   sparkling 
waves 
And   tunes   his  sweet    minstrelsy. 

Only   a    little   wind   flower, 

Yet   a   wayfarer    distressed, 
Is   soothed   by   the  sight   of   its   lovliness 

And  pifices  it   on   his   breast. 

Only  a  dainty   f(K)tstep, 

.\   rustle  of  silk   in   the  hall, 
A    kindly  deed  —  a   face   to   hold 

In   memory,   and   that   is  all.  — 

L.  VV.  E 


THE  NEW  TITLE 

THE  facsimile  of  oxir  new  and 
enlarged  title,  AMERICAN 
COOKERY,  formerly  The  Boston 
Cooking-School  Magazine,  which  was 
promised  for  this  page,  fails  to  be 
completed  in  time  for  press.  In  con- 
nection with  this  change,  however, 
the  main  thing  to  hold  in  considera- 
tion is,  that  our  aim  is  growth  and 
expansion.  As  a  clean,  special,  high- 
class  publication  we  claim  recognition. 
Our  subscribers,  in  large  nimibers, 
renew  their  subscriptions  year  after 
year;  often  former  subscribers  return 
to  this  special,  culinary  periodical, 
to  secure  the  simple,  unalloyed  class 
of  work  we  do.  Forward,  upward, 
to  render  better,  higher  service  is 
the  single  motive  that  actuates  the 
entire  management  of  this  publication. 

MODERN  HOUSEKEEPING 

OUR  day  is  that  of  short-cuts, 
labor-saving  devices  and  greater 
efficiency  in  all  forms  of  labor.  In 
steam  and  electricity  man  has  come 
into  possession  of  forces  of  wellnigh 
unlimited  possibilities.  Without  these 
forces  many  a  modern  undertaking, 
such  as  the  construction  of  a  subway, 
a  tunnel,  a  canal  or  a  steamship,  had 
been  impossible  and  futile.  In  recent 
years  the  forces  of  nature,  formerly 
known,  have  been  multiplied  myriads 
of  times  and  the  benefits  to  mankind 
that  accrue  therefrom  surpass  even 
the  expectation  of  dreams. 

The  processes  of  simplification, 
elimination  and  labor-saving  have  not 
been  excluded  from  the  household. 
In  this  line  much  has  been  done,  though 
much  more  remains  still  to  be  done. 
Many  seem  to  think  the  time  has 
come  to  eliminate  most  of  the  work 
of  housekeeping,  to  have  a  system 
working  so  well  that  half  an  hour  a 
day  is  all  the  time  needed  to  keep  a 
household  running  smoothly,  in  order 
to  gain  time  for  other  and  more  im- 


EDITORIALS 


687 


portant  matters.  The  argument  is 
tinanswerable,  but  the  thing  itself, 
i.  e.  the  reduction  of  household  labor 
to  periods  of  minutes,  simply  can 
not  be  done.  Simplify  at  will,  use 
all  modem  appliances  and  accessories, 
and  we  still  must  face  the  fact,  that 
to  keep  a  house  in  hygienic  condition 
and  prepare  three  meals  a  day  requires 
a  good  deal  of  time  and  labor  on  the 
part  of  somebody. 

After  all,  do  we  wish  to  get  rid  of 
work  or  to  make  our  tasks  a  means  of 
pleasure  and  happiness?  Besides,  as 
some  one  has  said,  are  there  to  be  no 
duties  left  in  life  to  perform?  The 
most  nervous  and  tired-looking  women 
of  the  day,  we  suspect,  are  those  who 
are  active  members  of  several  clubs 
and,  at  the  same  time,  are  trying  to 
simplify  the  ways  of  housekeeping. 

To  supervise  a  household  is  one 
thing,  to  do  the  everyday  work  therein 
is  quite  another  thing.  In  order  to 
become  efficient  housekeepers,  what 
we  need  is  not  so  much  the  avoidance 
of  house  work  as  a  growing  interest 
and  pleasure  in  a  better  and  more 
satisfactory  performance  of  our  daily 
duties.  In  hard  work,  cheerfully  done, 
is  the  healthiest  way  of  living. 

THE  BALANCED  MEAL 

WE  hear  much  about  balanced 
meals.  People  are  making 
repeated  inquiries  about  the  matter, 
showing  how  few  are  they  who  are 
acquainted  with  the  meaning  of  the 
term.  The  subject  is  rather  large, 
complicated  and  not  easily  made  clear. 
It  involves  some  knowledge  of  the 
composition  of  foodstuffs  and  their 
respective  food  values.  It  also  involves 
knowledge  of  physiology,  especially  as 
to  the  functions  of  digestion  and 
assimilation  of  nutrients  in  the  human 
system.  Even  such  terms  as  calories, 
enzymes  and  metabolism  can  not  be 
overlooked. 

Chemistry  is  a  very  interesting  and 
important     branch     of     science,     yet 


comparatively  few  people  have  the 
time  or  the  inclination  to  live  closely 
up  to  the  requirements  of  chemical 
formulas.  The  most  of  us  must  be 
content  with  the  general  results  derived 
from  the  analyses  and  researches  of 
the  chemist  and  scientist. 

That  so  little  has  been  known,  or 
so  little  notice  taken,  of  the  balanced 
meal  in  the  past  is  proof,  perhaps, 
that  the  matter  is  not  so  serious, 
after  all,  as  some  would  have  us  think; 
yet  knowledge  of  every  kind  is  never 
to  be  despised,  and  the  laws  of  nature, 
which  is  truth,  should  ever  be  observed. 
The  centenarian  Comaro,  whose  fame 
is  world-wide,  used  to  weigh  his  food 
and  ate  just  so  many  ounces  a  day. 
He  asserts  that  an  excess  of  even  two 
ounces  a  day  would  cause  him  suffering 
and  illness.  He  learned  by  self-obser- 
vation and  experience  what  kinds  of 
food  and  how  much  of  each  were  best 
suited  and  most  agreeable  to  his  needs. 
His  diet  came  to  consist  principally 
of  bread,  milk,  eggs,  some  varieties 
of  fish,  fruit  and  vegetables,  with  a 
small  portion  of  chicken  or  lamb, 
occasionally.  By  the  strict  obser- 
vance of  temperance  in  both  eating 
and  drinking  he  lived  in  the  enjoyment 
of  excellent  health,  both  physical  and 
mental,  one  hundred  and  three  years. 

In  this  matter  of  diet,  the  case  of 
each  individual  differs  from  that  of 
every  other.  Each  must,  in  a  sense, 
be  a  law  unto  himself.  Natural  con- 
stitution, occupation,  age,  time  spent 
daily  in  work  or  exercise  out  of  doors, 
etc.,  etc.,  all  must  be  considered  in 
determining  a  fitting  and  proper  dietary. 
In  the  selection  and  combination  of 
foods,  intelligence  as  well  as  old-time 
commonsense  is  called  for.  At  any 
rate,  from  the  experience  and  obser- 
vation of  ages  the  consensus  of  opinion 
is  that  temperance  promotes  health 
and  well  being.  While,  on  the  other 
hand,  excess  in  any  form  tends  to 
undermine  and  destroy  the  strongest 
constitution. 


688 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


But  what  is  the  well-balanced  meal? 
How  are  we  to  know  it?  When  one 
has  sufficient  knowledge  of  foodstuffs 
and  food  principles,  of  which  there 
are  four  classes,  as  well  as  the  processes 
of  human  nutrition,  he  will  know 
that  a  balanced  ration  means,  in  sub- 
stance, the  selection  and  combination 
of  the  several  classes  of  foods  in  such 
proportions  as  will  satisfy  the  wants 
of  the  human  system  at  any  age,  period 
or  circumstance  of  life.  Is  it  not,  then, 
plain,  that,  to  determine  the  well 
balanced  meal,  scientific  knowledge  as 
well  as  a  careful  study  of  prevailing 
conditions  is  required.  Exactness  here 
must  be  left  to  the  chemist,  the  dieti- 
tians in  hospitals,  sanitariums,  and 
like  institutions;  the  average  house- 
keeper or  dispenser  of  bills  of  fare 
must  depend  on  general  information 
as  to  facts  and  principles  that  have 
been  tried  and  proven  true.  Much 
has  already  been  written  on  this  subject. 
Books  on  dietetics  and  the  science  of 
nutrition  are  numerous.  These  are 
storehouses  of  information,  from  which 
the  reader  may  gain,  here  a  little  and 
there  a  little,  instruction  until  her 
comprehension  of  the  subject  will  suffice 
for  all  practical  purposes.  Our  business 
as  housekeepers  is  largely  in  the  prac- 
tical application  of  the  household  arts  as 
far  as  these  have  been  developed  and 
made  known. 

SEATS  AND  SITTERS 

"/^NE  of  my  hardest  tasks,'*  said 
^^  a  successful  portrait  painter,  "is 
to  get  my  women  patrons  to  sit  properly. , 
A  woman,  even  one  who  walks  grace- 
fully, tends  to  crumple  up  the  moment 
she  sits  down.*' 

This  artist  insists  that  to  sit  grace- 
fully one  must  choose  a  seat  where 
grace  is  possible.  Rocking-chairs  he 
places  in  the  category  with  dressing 
gowns  and  old  slippers.  They  may 
be   comfortable   with   one's   feet   on    a 


stool,  but  forty-nine  out  of  fifty,  he 
says,  are  too  large,  too  high,  or  tilt 
back  too  far  for  the  ordinary  woman 
to  use.  In  his  own  apartments  there 
is  not  a  rocking-chair  to  be  seen.  The 
type  of  chair  that  he  favors  is  one 
with  a  straight  back,  and  a  seat  that 
is  rather  narrow  from  back  to  front. 

The  artist  says  that  a  girl  who 
aspires  to  sit  gracefully  should  choose 
a  chair  of  -such  size  and  shape  that 
she  can  sit  well  back  in  it  without 
causing  her  heels  to  leave  the  floor, 
and  should  then  hold  her  chest  high, 
and  lean  forward  very  slightly  —  just 
enough  to  throw  the  weight  of  the 
trunk  in  front  of  the  base  of  the  spine. 
He  mentions  Gainsborough's  portrait 
of  Mrs.  Siddons,  and  also  the  same 
artist's  portrait  called  "The  Sisters," 
as  showing  women  who  knew  how 
to  sit  gracefully. 

A  girl  from  a  school  in  which  the 
teachers  are  expected  to  train  the 
pupils  to  graceful  poise  adds  a  few 
rules  for  sitting. 

"It  is  easy  to  sit  properly,"  she 
says,  "at  the  dinner  table,  yet  there 
is  no  place  where  the  difference  between 
the  graceful  and  the  awkward  woman 
is  more  apparent. 

"In  the  dining  chair,  and  in  all 
small,  straight  chairs,  sit  as  far  back 
in  the  seat  as  possible;  raise  the  chest, 
and  lean  forward  very  slightly.  When 
sitting  on  a  couch,  or  a  chair  so  broad 
in  the  seat  that  sitting  far  back  would 
raise  your  heels  from  the  floor,  do  not 
allow  an  anxious  hostess  to  stuff  pillows 
behind  you,  but  sit  near  the  edge  of 
the  couch,  and  keep  the  chest  raised 
and  the  body  slightly  inclined. 

"Above  all,  never  sit  on  the  base 
of  the  spine.  It  is  not  only  an  awkward 
position,  but  one  that  is  injurious  to 
health.  When  leaning  back  in  a  chair, 
be  mindful  of  the  position  of  the  feet. 
Keep  them  comparatively  near  to- 
gether."—  Youths  Companion. 


MATERIALS  FOR  "1911"  EASTEB  SAI-AD. 


Seasonable  Recipes 

By  Janet  M.  Hill 

IN  all  recipes  wheie  flour  is  used,   unless    otherwise  stated,  the   flour  is  measured  after  wfting 
once.     Where  flour  ia  measured  by  cups,  the  cup  is  filled    with  a  spoon,  and  a  level  cupful 
is  meant.     A  tablespoonful  or  teaspoonful  of  any  designated  material  is  a  LEVEL  spoonful. 


Crabflake  Cocktail 

FOR  each  service,  mix  one  table- 
spoonful  and  a  half  of  tomato 
catsup,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice,  three  or  four  drops  of  tabasco 
sauce,  a  few  grains  of  salt  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  mushroom  catsup; 
turn  into  a  tiny  ramekin  (two  inches 
across  the  top),  set  the  ramekin  on  a 
small  plate,  and  beside  the  ramekin 
set  a  choice  lettuce  leaf  filled  with  bits 
of  crabflake.  In  sections  where  fresh 
crabs  are  not  obtainable,  one  may  often 
be  able  to  get  the  crabmeat  by  the 
pound,  at  a  hotel.  Hotels  purchase 
crabflakes  in  five  pound  packages,  but 
fish  dealers  in  small  cities  are  not  accus- 
tomed to  keep  such  supplies. 

Consomme,  Irma 

Prepare  a  rich  consommfe  with  beef, 
veal  and  chicken  and  clarify  in  the 
usual    manner.     Serve    half    a    dozen 


chicken  quenelles,  with  three  or  four 
green  peas  in  the  center  of  each,  in 
each  plate  of  soup. 

Chicken  Quenelles  for  Consommfe, 
Irma 
Scrape  the  pulp  from  enough  raw 
chicken  breast  to  half-fill  a  cup;  cook 
soft  white  bread  crumbs  in  chicken 
broth  or  milk,  stirring  constantly,  to 
a  smooth  paste,  and  cool  the  paste; 
to  the  scraped  chicken  add  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  the  bread  paste  (panada)  and 
the  unbeaten  white  of  one  egg,  and 
pound  with  a  pestle  to  a  smooth  paste; 
press  through  a  sieve  with  the  pestle, 
then  beat  in  very  thoroughly  the  white 
of  one  egg  beaten  dry,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  and  half  a  cup  of  cream, 
beaten  firm.  Dip  two  teaspoons  in 
boiling  water,  and  in  them  shape  the 
mixture  into  quenelles;  first  fill  one 
spoon,  in  the  center  of  the  mixture 
set  four  or  five  cooked  peas,  seasoned 


690 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


with  salt,  black  pepper  and  butter, 
then  cover  with  the  chicken  mixture, 
shaping  it  with  a  second  spoon.  When 
all  are  made,  cover  with  boiling  con- 
sonim6  or  water  and  let  cook  until  firm 
throughout.  The  liquid  should  not  boil. 
Select  small  teaspoons  or  use  after- 
dinner    cofEee     spoons. 

Eggs  in  Ramekin  Cups,  with 
Pastry 

Select  cups  of  suitable  size.  Allow 
three  hard-cooked  eggs  for  each  two 
persons  to  be  served.  To  cook  the 
eggs,  set  them  in  an  agate  dish  over 
the  fire,  cover  with  boiling  water 
{two  inches  above  the  eggs),  let  stand, 
without  boiling  but  on  the  range,  cov- 
«red,  for  ten  minutes,  then  let  heat 
to  the  boiling  point;  remove  from  the 


a  third  a  cup  of  tomato  or  Madeira 
sauce  and  serve  at  once.  For  Madeira 
sauce,  use  brown  stock  and  tomato 
piu*^  (half  and  half)  in  making  the 
sauce  and  finish  with  one  or  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  Madeira  wine- 

Eggs  a  la  Hussard 
To  serve  four  persons,  prepare  four 
rounds  of  fried  or  toasted  bread,  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  chopped,  cooked  ham, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped,  cooked 
mushrooms,  four  careftilly  poached  fresh 
eggs,  four  slices  of  broiled  tomato,  and 
about  half  a  cup  of  Hollandaise  sauce. 
If  preferred  the  bread  may  be  spread 
with  butter  and  then  browned  in  the 
oven.  Mix  the  ham  and  mushrooms 
and  spread  over  the  hot  bread;  set 
the   tomato   above   the   ham   mixture, 


CRABFIAKB  COCKTAIL.  SAUCE  IN  VBHY  SMALL  RAMEKINS. 


fire  after  boiling  one  minute.  Remove 
the  shells  and  cut  into  even  slices; 
for  each  three  eggs,  prepare  a  cup  of 
sauce.  For  the  sauce,  use  two  table- 
spoonfuls, each,  of  butter  and  flour, 
one-fourth  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt' 
and  pepper  and  half  a  cup,  each,  of 
thin  cream  and  chicken  or  veal  broth. 
Add  the  sliced  eggs  to  the  sauce  and 
turn  the  mixture  into  the  buttered  cups. 
Set  rounds  of  flaky  paste  above  the 
mixture  to  rest  on  the  rim  of  the  rame- 
kin.   Reheat  in  the  oven. 

Eggs  in  Flat  Low  Ramekins, 
Zingara 

Spread  rounds  of  toast  with  butter 
and  fine-chopped  cooked  ham;  set  these 
in  flat  ramekins,  dispose  a  poached 
egg  above  the  toast,  pour  over  about 


the  egg   above   the   tomato   and    pour 
the  sauce  over  the  eggs. 

Tomato  Slices  for  Eggs  Hussard 
The  slices  of  tomato  may  be  baked 
or  broiled.  To  bake,  set  in  a  buttered 
dish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
let  cook  until  hot  throughout.  Transfer 
to  the  prepared  toast  with  a  broad 
spatula.  To  broil,  brush  over  with 
melted  butter,  then  pat  in  soft,  sifted 
bread  crumbs  and  set  to  cook  in  a 
well-oiled  broiler.  Turn  often  while 
cooking, 

Hollandaise  Sauce  for  Eggs 

Hussard 

Beat  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter  to 

a  cream;  beat  in  one  raw  yolk  of  egg, 

then  another  yolk  of  egg  and  one-fourth 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


EGGS  A  LA  HUSSABD. 


a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  paprika; 
add  one-fourth  a  cup  of  boiling  water 
and  stir  and  cook  over  hot  water  until 
thickened  slightly;  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  lemon  juice. 

Lobster,  Cardinal,  en  Ramekins 
A  lobster  weighing  one  pound  and 
a  half  will  serve  six.  There  will  be 
about  a  pint  (generous  measure)  of 
solid  flesh,  cut  in  cubes,  beside  the 
soft  portions  to  be  added  to  the  sauce. 
Put  the  body  bones  —  freed  of  flesh  — 
over  the  fire  with  a  sprig  of  parsley, 
slice  of  onion,  two  or  three  leaves  of 
sweet  basil  and  a  few  trimmings  of 
fresh  fish,  if  at  hand;  cover  with  cold 
water  and  let  simmer  half  an  hour, 
then  strain  off  the  broth  and  let  reduce 
without  boiling.  Have  ready  a  cup 
of  tomato  purfe  —  strained,  cooked  to- 
mato —  and  let  this  simmer  until  re- 
duced nearly  one-half.  Beat  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  to  a  cream,  then 
beat  in  the  coral  from  the  lobster  — 
if  there  be  coral  —  first  pressed  through 
a  sieve,  and  the  aoft  greenish  parts 
of  the  lobster.  Melt  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter;  in  it  cook  four  table- 


spoonfuls  of  flour  and  a  scant  half 
teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  paprika, 
then  add  a  cup  of  the  reduced  lobster 
broth,  half  a  cup  of  tomato  pur^  and 
stir  until  boiling;  add  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  cream  or  mushroom  liquor, 
let  boil  again;  then  add  the  prepared 
butter,  and,  lastly,  fold  in  the  cubes 
of  lobster.  Add  the  lobster  with  as 
few  motions  as  possible  to  avoid  injur- 
ing the  shape  of  the  pieces.  Turn 
the  mixture  into  buttered  ramekins, 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  set 
into  the  oven  to  become  very  hot. 
Set  a  fan  from  the  tail  in  each  rame> 
kin,  if  desired, 

StuflFed  Chicken  Legs 
This  dish  furnishes  a  particularly 
choice  way  of  serving  chicken  legs, 
when  the  rest  of  the  chicken  is  used 
in  other  dishes.  Remove  the  legs  from 
the  chickens,  without  cutting  the  skin 
at  the  joint,  that  is,  separate  the  leg 
at  the  joint,  but  include  a  short  length 
of  skin  above  the  joint.  Loosen  the 
skin  from  the  bone  at  the  foot  end; 
then  loosen  the  flesh  from  the  bone 
at    the    other    end,    and    by    scraping 


LOBSTER,  CARDINAL,  BN  RAMEKINS 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


STUFFED  CHICKEN  LEGS,  WITH  CHESTNUTS 

with  the  back  of  the  knife  close  to  the 
bone,  turn  the  flesh  wrong  side  out 
and  away  from  the  bone  down  to  the 
foot  end,  thus  boning  the  joint.  After 
one  has  been  done,  the  others  can  be 
done  in  two  minutes  each.  With  a 
sharp  knife  scrape  the  flesh  from  the 
tendons,  one  after  another;  wipe  the 
flesh  and  turn  the  flesh  inside.  For 
eight  or  ten  legs  have  ready  one  pound 
of  choice  sausage  meat  and  about  half 
the  quantity  of  D'Uxelles  preparation. 
Mix  the  sausage  and  D'Uxelles  and 
use  to  stuff  the  legs,  giving  them  the 
shape  of  small  hams;  turn  the  skin 
over  the  top  and  sew  it  in  place,  also 
take   a   stitch   at   the   lower  end.     Set 


set  an  aigrette  in  the  small  end  and  dis- 
pose around  a  pyramid  of  cold  cereal, 
brushed  with  beaten  white  of  egg  and 
sprinkled  with  fine-chopped  parsley. 
Surround  with  French  chestnuts,  shelled, 
blanched  and  simmered  tender  in  veal 
broth.  When  done  reduce  the  broth 
to  a  glaze;  return  the  chestnuts  to  the 
glaze  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and 
shake  them  over  the  fire  until  well 
coated  with  the  glaze.  Serve  the  broth 
in  which  the  legs  were  cooked  in  a  browc 
sauce.  If  preferred  the  legs  may  be 
cooled  a  little,  then  egged-and-crumbed 
and  fried  in  deep  fat.  Macaroni  or 
asparagus  or  string  beans  may  replace 
the  chestnuts. 

Chaudfroid  of  Chicken  Legs 

Prepare  and  cook  the  chicken  legs 
as  in  the  preceding  recipe,  then  let 
cool  imder  a  weight.  For  six  or  eight 
legs,  prepare  a  cup  and  a  half  of  cream 
sauce;  to  this  add  one-fourth  a  package 
of  gelatine  softened  in  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  cold  water  or  consomm^;  take 
out  about  one-fourth  of  the  sauce;  to, 
this  add  Worcestershire  sauce,  mush- 
room catsup  and  kitchen  bouquet  to  tint 
it  dark  brown.  Remove  the  skin  from 
the  legs,  which  should  be  thoroughjy 
chilled ;  when  the  sauce  begins  to  thicken, 
pour  the  white  sauce  over  the   rotind 


CHAUDFBOID  OF  STUFFED  CHICKEN  LEGS. 


these  in  a  saucepan  or  a  casserole,  add  part  of  the  legs,  leaving  about  one-third 

half  an  onion,  sliced,   a  few   slices  of  of   the  small   end   of  each   imcovered; 

carrot   and   broth   to   cover;   let   cook  over  this  end  pour  the  dark  sauce  to 

in  the  oven  until  tender,  then  remove;  simulate  the  skin  left  on  the  upper  part 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


693 


of  a  boiled  ham.  Serve  these  with 
stringless  beans  or  asparagus  tips  sea- 
soned with  French  dressing. 

D'Uxelles  Preparation 
Chop,  fine,  one-fourth  a  pound  of 
mushrooms,  half  an  onion  and  two 
ounces  of  lean  ham;  cook  in  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  clarified  butter  until  the 
moisture  is  evaporated;  add  half  a 
cup  of  Sautcme  and  let  reduce,  then 
add  one-fourth  a  cup  of  thick  (reduced) 
tomato  purfe,  half  a  cup  of  thick  brown 
sauce,  a  tablespoonful  of  fine-chopped 
parsley,  with  salt  and  pepper  as  needed. 


legs.  Stir  into  it  about  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  soft,  sifted  bread  crumbs 
mixed  with  the  same  measure  of  chopped 
bacon  (uncooked)  or  melted  butter. 
Use  this  to  fill  the  bottoms,  rounding 
the  mixture  in  each;  wrap  each  pre- 
pared bottom  in  two  slices  of  bacon 
and  tie  the  bacon  to  keep  it  in  place. 
Have  ready  half  a  carrot,  half  a  mild 
onion,  three  branches  of  parsley,  chopped 
and  disposed  in  an  agate  dish;  on  the 
vegetables  set  the  artichokes,  pour 
in  white  wine  to  half  cover,  and  let 
cook  in  a  very  moderate  oven  about 
half  an  hour.     Remove  the  artichokes, 


CANNED  ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS,  BARIGOULE.  FILLET  OF  BEEF  FROM  RUMP. 


Fillet  of  Beef  and  Artichoke  Bot- 
toms, Barigoule 
Artichokes,  Barigoule,  may  be  served 
in  connection  with  a  dish  of  meat, 
as  is  given  at  this  time,  or,  separately, 
as  an  entree.  The  fillet  of  beef  may 
be  larded  and  roasted  and  the  arti- 
chokes served  around  it,  or,  the  fillet 
may  be  cut  in  slices;  the  slices,  trimmed 
into  neat  rounds  or  ovals,  may  be  sauted 
in  butter  or  broiled  and  the  artichokes 
be  served  upon  them.  The  artichokes 
may  be  fresh  or,  as  in  this  case,  may 
be  the  canned  artichoke  bottoms.  The 
bottoms  are  sold  for  fifty  cents  per 
can;  there  are  from  six  to  eight  bottoms 
in  a  can.  Drain  the  bottoms,  dry  on 
a  cloth  and  sprinkle  inside  with  salt 
and  pepper  Prepare  the  D'Uxelles 
preparation  as  given  for  stuffed  chicken 


take  off  the  bacon  and  keep  them  hot. 
Remove  all  fat  from  the  liquid  in  the 
pan.  Take '  two  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
fat,  when  hot  add  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour  and  cook  until  frothy;  add  the 
liquid  from  the  pan  and  enough  rich 
veal  broth  to  make  one  cup  in  all. 
Stir  until  boiling,  then  pour  over  the 
top  of  the  artichokes. 

German    Hasenpfeffer  (C.  K.  D.) 

Cut  two  rabbits  into  pieces  for  serv- 
ing. Wash  well;  place  a  layer  of  rabbit 
in  a  stone  crock,  cover  with  a  layer  of 
onion,  fine-sliced,  a  few  whole  peppers, 
three  cloves,  a  bit  of  bay  leaf  and  a 
sprinkling  of  salt;  repeat  th«  layers 
until  the  rabbit  is  all  placed;  then 
cover  with  two-third  parts  of  water  to 
one-third   part   of   vinegar;   cover   and 


J 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


let  stand  two  days.  Pour  into  a  stew 
pan  and  cook  slowly  until  the  rabbit 
is  tender;  remove  the  rabbit  carefully 


Lobster  Salad,  Victoria 

Cut  the  meat  of  a  fresh-boiled  lobster 

into   inch    pieces;   add   one    cucumber. 


ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS.  BABIGOULE,  WITH  SMALL  FILLETS  OF  B 


and  strain  the  sauce.  Cook  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  to  a  deep  caramel, 
and  add  veT7  slowly  the  strained  sauce; 
mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  with 
a  little  cold  water,  stir  into  the  sauce 
and  put  the  pieces  of  rabbit  back  to 
heat;  just  before  serving  add  a  glass 
of  claret;  serve  with 

Kartoffel  Kloese  (Potato  Dump- 
lings) 

Take  two  cups  of  hot  mashed  pota- 
toes, add  salt  and  a  little  nutmeg, 
one  egg  well  beaten,  half  a  cup  of  crou- 
tons of  bread,  browned  in  butter,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  fine-chopped  parsley,  or 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  sweet  raarjorum; 
mix  well  together;  form  into  small  balls 
rolled  in  flour;  cook  in  boiling  salted 


peeled  and  cut  in  cubes,  and  four 
trufHes,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  the  slices 
in  halves.  Beat  the  creamy  parts  of 
the  lobster  smooth,  then  fold  into  one 
cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing.  Sprinkle 
the  lobster,  truffle  and  cucumber  with 
a  little  French  dressing;  mix  lightly 
and  turn  on  to  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves; 
dispose  the  cooked  heads  of  a  large 
bunch  of  asparagus  above,  and  the 
mayonnaise  mixture  above  the  aspara- 
gus; sift  dried  lobster  coral  over  the 
whole  and  serve  at  once. 

1914  Easter  Salad  (To  Serve  Ten) 
Cook  one  pound  of  Italian  chestnuts 
(shelled  and  blanched)  in  chicken  or 
veal  broth  (seasoned  with  soup  vege- 
tables)   until    tender.     Skim    out,    let 


PINEAPPLE  AND  CREAM  CHEESE  SALAD.  EASTER  STYLE 

water  ten  minutes.  Remove  carefully,  cool  and  cut  in  julienne  shreds.  Cut 
put  on  disband  cover  with  browned  but-  tomato  jelly  in  cubes  or  other  small 
ter  and  bread  crumbs,  browned  in  butter,     shapes.     Shred    half    a    green    pepper. 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


KAISER  ROIXS,  CUTTER  FOR  ROLLS.  ROLL  READY  TO  CUT 


Cut  half  a  pound  of  French  endive  in 
julienne  shreds.  Wash  and  dry  the 
tender  heart  leaves  of  two  heads  of 
lettuce.  Set  the  lettuce  on  ten  indi- 
vidual plates,  sprinkle  on  the  three 
shredded  articles,  and  set  the  tomato 
figures  above.  Pour  about  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  dressing  over  the  contents 
of  each  plate  and  serve  at  once. 

Dressing  for  1914  Salad 

Cut  a  Bermuda  onion  in  halves  and, 
with  a  thin  sharp-pointed  knife,  scrape 
the  juice  of  half  of  the  onion  into  a  bowl; 
add  three-fourths  a  cup  of  olive  oil, 
one-third  a  cup  of  red -wine  vinegar, 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  tomato  catsup,  one 
tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce, 
one  teaspoonful  of  mushroom  catsup, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika  and  a 
scant  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir 
until  well  blended. 


Tomato  Jelly  for  19U  Salad 
Soak  one-fourth  a  package  of  gelatine 
in  one-fourth  a  cup  of  cold  water. 
Put  over  the  fire  two  cups  and  a  half 
of  tomato,  three  branches  of  parsley, 
half  a  dozen  celery  tips,  (fresh  or  dried) 
one-fourth  a  bay  leaf,  half  an  onion 
with  two  cloves  pushed  into  it,  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  paprika  or  part  of  a  chili  pepper  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  peelings 
{fresh  or  dry)  if  at  hand.  Let  simmer 
twenty  minutes  and  press  through  a 
fine  sieve;  add  the  softened  gelatine, 
stir  until  dissolved,  then  turn  into  a 
shallow  agate  dish.  When  cold  and 
firm  use  as  indicated  above. 

Pineapple-and- Cream  Cheese 

Salad,  Easter  Style 

Wash  and  dry  the  leaves  in  a  head 

of  lettuce;  cut  sliced  pineapple  (canned 


BUTZEN  CAKE. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


DESSERT  TOBTE. 

is  preferable  for  this  purpose)  into 
straws;  keep  the  straws  as  long  as 
the  slices  will  allow.  Take  one  slice 
for  each  service.  Roll  cream  cheese 
into  ■  egg-shapes,  the  size  of  birds' 
eggs.  Dispose  the  pineapple  straws, 
nest-shape,  in  heart  leaves  of  lettuce 
and  set  three  eggs  in  each  nest;  fleck 
each  egg  with  paprika.  Serve  plain 
French  dressing  in  a  bowl.  Allow  one 
tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  olive  oil, 
half  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice 
and  a  few  grains,  each,  of  salt  and  pepper 
for  each  nest. 

Kaiser  Rolls 
Soften  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  in 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  boiled  water,  cooled 
to  a  lukewarm  temperature,  and  stir  in 
about  three-fourths  a  cup  of  flour  or 
enough  to  make  a  dough  that  may  be 
kneaded.  Knead  the  little  ball  of  dough 
until  it  is  smooth  and  elastic.  Then 
make  a  deep  cut  across  the  dough  in 
both  directions,  Have  ready  two  cups 
of  boiled  water,  cooled  to  a  lukewarm 


temperature,  and  into  this  put  the 
ball  of  dough.  It  will  sink  to  the 
bottom  of  the  dish,  but  will  gradu- 
ally rise  as  it  becomes  light.  In  about 
fifteen  minutes  it  will  float  upon  the 
water,  a  light,  puffy  "sponge."  Into 
this  water  and  sponge  stir  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  and  between  six  and  seven  cups 
of  flour.  Knead  or  pound  the  dough 
about  twenty  minutes.  Let  rise,  in 
a  temperature  of  about  70  degrees  F., 
until  the  mass  is  doubled  in  bulk. 
Divide  into  pieces  weighing  about  three 
ounces,  each.  {There  should  be  about 
fourteen  pieces.)  Shape  these  into  balls. 
Set  these  in  buttered  pans,  some  dis- 
tance apart.  Cover  and  let  become 
light.  Pres-s  a  "Kaiser  Semmeln"  cut- 
ter down  into  the  top  of  each  roll 
and  give  it  a  slightly  rotary  motion; 
brush  over  the  tops  generously  with 
melted  butter,  and  set  to  bake  at  otue 
in  a  hot  oven.  Bake  twenty  or  twenty- 
five  minutes.  When  nearly  baked,  brush 
over  with  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg, 
and  return  to  the  oven  to  finish  baking. 
Bake  the  biscuit  as  soon  as  they  are 
cut  and  brushed  with  butter.  Only  by 
this  means  can  the  shape  and  fine 
texture  of  this  form  of  bread  be  secured. 

Blitzen  (Lightning)  Cake 
Beat  half  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream; 
gradually  beat  in  half  ^  cup  of  sugar, 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beaten  light,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and,  lastly,  one 
cup-  of  sifted  flour,  sifted  again  with 
one     teaspoonful    of     baking     powder. 


MRS.  HILLS  BABY  BALTIMORE  CAKES,  LITTLE  EASTER  SPONGE  CAKES. 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


697 


Spread  the  mixture  in  a  square  (shallow) 
baking  pan.  Beat  the  whites  of  four 
eggs  dry;  gradually  beat  into  them 
three-fourths  a  cup  of  sugar,  then  fold 
in  half  a  cup  of  almonds,  blanched  and 
chopped.  Spread  this  meringue  evenly 
over  the  cake  mixture,  dredge  the  top 
with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  let  bake 
about  thirty  minutes.  Cut  in  strips 
two  inches  by  one  inch  for  serving. 

Dessert  Torte 

Beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  dry;  then 
gradually  beat  into  them  one  cup  and 
three-fourths  of  granulated  sugar;  con- 
tinue the  beating  until  the  mixture  is 
dry  and  glossy.  Spread  waxed  paper 
on  a  meat  board  that  may  be  set  into 
an  oven.  Lay  a  plate  nine  inches  in 
diameter  on  the  paper  and  draw  a 
pencil  around  it;  fill  the  space  inside 
the  pencil  mark  with  meringue,  making 
it  smooth  and  level  on  the  top.  Lay 
the  plate  down  a  second  time  and  draw 
a  pencil  around  it,  then  lay  a  second 
plate  seven  inches  in  diameter  inside 
the  pencil  mark  and  again  drawn  a 
line.  With  spoon  spread  meringue  on 
this  two-inch  space,  then  pipe  the  rest 
of  the  meringue  above.  Set  into  a 
moderate  oven  to  cook  about  thirty-five 
minutes.  The  meringue  should  not 
color  until  the  last  of  the  cooking. 
When  cooked  invert  the  solid  meringue 
on  a  serving  dish,  and  set  the 
ring  of  meringue  on  the  edge  (the  two 
soft  sides  together);  when  ready  to  serve 
fill  the  center  with  halves  of  canned,  pre- 
eerved  or  brandied  peaches:  set  a  cone 
or  round  of  vanilla  ice-cream  on  each 
half-peach,  and  pour  raspberry  (Melba) 
sauce  over  the  cream.  The  torte  is  par- 
ticularly good,  at  this  season,  filled 
with  very  ripe  strawberries .  and  whip- 
ped cream. 

Mrs.  Hill's  Baby  Baltimore  Cakes 

Beat  one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter  to 
a  cream;  gradually  beat  in  half  a  cup 
of  granulated  sugar,  the  beaten  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  one-fourth  a  cup  of  milk. 


the  grated  rind  of  one  orange  or  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  orange  extract,  and, 
lastly,  one  cup  of  sifted  flour,  less 
two  tablespoonfuls,  sifted  again  with 
two  level  teaspoonf uls  of  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  a  well-buttered  lemon-queen 
pan  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 
When  baked  the  cakes  should  be  of 
a  golden  color  on  all  sides.  The  mix- 
ture makes  fourteen  cakes.  Dry  six 
macaroons  in  a  warming  oven,  roll  on 
a  board  and  sift.  Melt  one  cup  and 
a  half  of  sugar  in  half  a  cup  of  boiling 
water;  wash  down  the  sides  with  the 
fingers  wet  repeatedly  in  cold  water, 
cover  and  let  boil  rapidly  about  three 
minutes,  uncover  and  let  boil,  undis- 
turbed, to  240  degree  P.  on  a  sugar  ther- 
mometer, or  until  a  long  thread  will 
spin  from  the  spoon.  Or  tmtil  the  sy- 
rup will  form  a  consistent  "soft  ball" 
when  tested  in  cold  water.  Beat  the 
whites  of  two  eggs;  pour  on  the  syrup 
slowly  and  in  a  fine  stream,  beating 
constantly  meanwhile;  tint  very  deli- 
cately with  a  little  rose  color-paste; 
flavor  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
and  a  few  drops  of  almond  extract. 
Cut  each  cake  in  three  even  slices; 
mix  the  sifted  macaroon  powder  with 
enough  frosting  to  make  a  mixture 
that  will  spread.  Put  the  layers  of 
each  cake  together  with  just  enough 
of  the  macaroon  mixture  to  hold  them 
in  place.  Cover  the  outside  with  the 
plain  frosting.  When  the  frosting  begins 
to  "set",  score  it  on  top  with  a  knife 
and  sprinkle  it  with  pistachio  nuts 
chopped  fine  without  being  blanched. 

Little  Easter  Sponge  Cakes 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  dry  and 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs  until  thick  and 
light-colored.  To  the  yolks  add  the 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon  or  an  orange  and 
gradually  beat  in  half  a  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  then  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  melted  butter;  astly,  fold  in  half  a 
cup  of  sifted  pastry  flour  and  the  whites 
of  the  eggs.     Bake  in  small  oval  shaped 

(G>ntiDued  on  Page  716) 


Menus  for  a  Week  in  April 


< 

Q 

D 
c/) 


Breakfast 

Oranges 

Eggs  en  Ramekins,  Zingara 

Dry  Toast 

Corameal  Muffins 

Coffee  Doughnuts  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Crabflake  Cocktail 

Broiled  Sirloin  Steak,  Bernaise  Sauce 

Okra,  Andalouse  Style 

Lettuce,  French  Dressing 

Individual  Strawberry  Shortcakes 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Hot  Ham  Sandwiches 

Stewed  Figs,  Cream  and  Sugar 

Little  Easter  Sponge  Cakes 

Tea 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Baked  Potatoes 

Broiled  Bacon 

Pop  Overs 

Coffee  Honey  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Chicken  Gumbo  Soup 

(Canned  okra) 

Crumbed  Fillets  of  Fresh  Fish,  Sauce  Tartaic 

(fried  in  deep  fat) 

Spinach  Greens 

Custard  Pie  Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Tomato  Rabbit      Toast 

Canned  Pineapple 

Sponge  Cake 

Tea 


P5 
D 
Z 

w 

D 
> 


Breal^ast 

Breakfast 

Bananas,  Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Strawberries 

French   Omelet,   with   Creamed   Crabf lakes 

Puffy  Omelet  (with  chives  and  parsley) 

French  Bread,  Toasted 

Creamed  Potatoes  au  gratin    4  •  # 

Cereal  Griddle  Cakes, 

Coffee         Yeast  Doughnuts          Cocoa 

1 

Coffee         Maple  Syrup         Cocoa 

Dinner 

Q 

Dinner 

Hot  Boilfed  Ham 

X 

G 

Veal  Cutlets,  Tomato  Sauce 

Creamed  Spinach,  with  Boiled  Eggs 

^^^ 

Z 

Radishes              ^  Mashed  Potatoes 

Mashed  Potato,  Vienna  Style 

IP 

a 

> 

O 

Canned  Stringless  Beans 

Custard  Souff  16,  Sabayon  Sauce 

S 

Rhubarb  Pie               Cream  Cheese 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

< 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

' 

Supper 

Mayonnaise  of  Eggs,  with  Lettuce 

Fresh  Codfish  Chowder  with  Croutons 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Philadelphia  Relish 

Strawberries 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

Mrs.  Hill's  Baby  Baltimore  Cakes 

Tea 

Tea 

I 

Breakfast 

Breakfast 

Oranges 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Veal,  Potato  and  Green  Pepper  Hash 

Creamed  Salt  Codfish  on  Toast 

Coffee       Kaiser  Rolls  (reheated)       Cocoa 

Radishes 

Dinner 

Coffee         Spider  Corn  Cake        Cocoa 

^ 

Boiled  Fowl 

Dinner 

Q 

Boiled  Bermuda  Onions 

Mock  Bisque  Soup,  Croutons 
Scalloped  Oysters 

T3 

Potatoes,  Scalloped,  with  Peppers 

12 

Lettuce,  French  Endive  and  Tomato  Jelly, 

Philadelphia  Relish 

0 

French  Dressing 

Parker  House  Rolls  (reheated) 

> 

Sweet  Rice  Croquettes,  Creamy  Sauce 

Prune  Pie 

•< 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

Supper 

Supper 

Eggs  Scrambled  with  Chopped  Ham  (cooked) 

Milk  Toast,  Poached  Eggs  above 

Graham  Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Dandelion  Salad 

White  Bread.  Toasted 

Orange  Cookies 

Dried  Apple  Sauce               Tea 

Tea 

Q 


Breakfast . 

Strawberries 

Oyster  Omelet 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes 

Graham  Bread,  Toasted 

Coffee  Cocoa 


Dinner 

Boiled  Corned  Beef  (Fancy  Brisket) 

New  Beets       New  Cabbage  I  DqJJpJ 

New  Turnips  New  Potatoes  f 

Baked  Indian  Pudding 

Whipped  Cream 

Half  Cups  Coffee 

698 


Supper 

Macaroni,  with  Tomatoes 
aiid  Cheese 

Lettuce,  French  Dressing 
Boston  Brown  Bread 
Pulled  White  Bread 

Stewed  Prunes  Tea 


Choice  Menus  for  Supper 


IVithout  Meat 

I. 

Eggs  Baked  in  Ramekins 

Baked  Potatoes,  Yellowstone  Style 

Stewed  Figs,  Cubes  of  Wine  Jelly, 

NAHiipped  Cream 

Sponge  Cake  (potato  flour) 

Tea 

II. 

Rice  Croquettes,  Cheese  Sauce 

Lettuce,  French  Dressing 

French  Rolls 

Apples  Baked  with  Almonds,  Thin  Cream 

Cookies  Tea 

III. 

French  Omelet,  with  Creamed  Peas 
French  Fried  Potatoes 
Cooked    Prunes   Stuffed   with    Nuts.    Whipped 

Cream 

Orange  Cookies 

Tea 

IV. 

Mayonnaise  of  Lettuce  and  Sliced  Eggs 

Clover  Leaf  Biscuit 

Apples  Baked  with  Tapioca, 

Junket  Ice  Cream  (vanilla) 

Almond  Bars  Tea 

V. 

Hot   Spinach,   with   Grated   Cheese  and    Eggs 

Spider  Corn  Cake 

French  Rolls 

Pineapple  Omelet,  Glazed  etc. 

Tea 

VI. 

Egg  Timbales,  Bread  Sauce 
Endive,   French   Dressing   (with   minute   pearl 

onions) 

Small  Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Evaporated  Peaches,  Stewed,  Thin  Cream 

White  Cake  Tea 

VII. 

Tomato  Rabbit  on  Toast 

Olives 

Prune  Souffle,  Custard  Sauce 

Cake  Tea 


VIII. 

Cream    of    Kornlet    Soup,    Browned    Crackers 

Caramel  Custard  Renvers^ 

Oatmeal  Macaroons 

Tea 

IX. 

Aspaargus  Tips  and    Poached  Eggs  on   Toast, 

Cream  Sauce 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Mocha  Cakes  (Graham-Cracker  Cake) 

Tea 

X. 

Hot  Spinach  Souffle,  Brown  Sauce 

Cornmeal  Muffins 

Banana  Parfait  Sponge  Cake 

Tea 


IVith  Meat 

XI 

Chicken  Gumbo  Soup 
Rolls 
Canned  Pears 
Oatmeal  Cookies 
Tea 

XII 

Ham  Timbales*  Tomato  Sauce 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Honey 

Cookies 

Tea 

XIII 

Cold  Corned  Beef,  Sliced  Thin 
Creamed  Potatoes  au  Gratin 

Home  Made  Pickles 
Rhubarb  Baked  with  Raisins 
Gingerbread 
Cocoa  or  Tea 

XIV 

Corned  Beef  and  Potato  Hash 
New  Beets,  Pickled 

Buttered  Toast 

Dried  Apple  Sauce 

Sugar  Cookies 

Tea 


699 


Jd^E 


Our  Daily  Bread,  or 
Preparation  in  Detail  of  the  Meals  of  One  Day 

Family  of  Two  Adulb  and  Two  Children 


THURSDAY 

Breakfut 

Canncii  Pineapple 

Fresh  Fish  und  Potalu  Cakes 

1  Tuesday) 


Salt  Pork  Shreds 
Radishes 


Coffee 


Toi 


CalCs  l-ivcr,  Haslied 

I'i)achecl  Kggs,  Bitl  Greens  iir  Spinach 

Baked  Potatoes 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Creamy  Rice  Pudding 

Milk  (for  children) 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

La nib-and -Tomato  Soup 

Browned  Crackers 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit,  Toasted 

Mold^  Spinach,  French  Dressing 

Slewed  Prunes 

BUT  half  the  recipe  for  the  pine- 
apple dessert  was  needed  on 
Tuesday.  The  other  half  of 
the  can  of  pineapple,  turned  into  an 
earthen  bowl,  co\'ered  and  set  aside 
in  the  refrigerator,  will  supply  fruit 
for  this  morning's  breakfast.  The 
remnants  of  the  fish,  cooked  on  Tues- 
day, and  the  potatoes,  left  over  from 
dinner  on  Wednesday,  provide  the 
materials  for  the  fish  cakes.  Before 
setting  the  fish  away  on  Tuesday, 
the  flesh  was  picked  from  the  skin 
and  1  ones  with  a  silver  fork,    dressing 


and  sauce  added  and  the  whole  was 
ready  for  use  when  needed.  Now, 
on  Thursday  morning,  cut  the  cold 
potatoes  in  halves,  lengthwise;  take 
a  portion  equal  in  bulk  to  the  fish. 
If  the  quantity  of  fish  be  small,  and 
anchovy  paste  (put  up  in  jars)  be 
convenient,  a  little  of  this  vrA\  make 
up  for  the  deficiency  of  fish,  and  more 
potatoes  may  be  used.  Cover  the 
potatoes  with  boiHng  water  to  whicli 
salt  is  added.  Cover  and  let  boil 
\'igorously  about  five  minutes,  let  drain. 
and  dry  off  on  the  stove  then  press 
through  a  rieer;  add  the  fish  mixturt-, 
butter  and  milk,  salt  and  pepper  as 
needed;  beat  thoroughly,  then  shape 
into  flat  round  cakes;  pat  these  on 
both  sides  in  flour.  Have  ready  a 
frying  pan  in  which  some  shreds  cf 
fat  salt  pork  have  been  slowly  cooldnp: 
when  these  are  crisp  and  lightly  colored, 
skim  them  on  to  a  hot  platter,  put  in 
the  fish  cakes  and  let  cook  until  browned 
on  one  side,  then  turn  to  brown  thf 
other  side.  If  convenient,  use  butter- 
milk or  sour  milk  for  the  waffles. 
Sift  together  one  cup  and  a  fourth  ol" 
flour,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
one  level  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of 
baking  powder.  Sift  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful, scant  measure,  of  soda  into  one 
cup  of  the  buttermilk  or  sounnilk. 
and  stir  thoroughly,  then  add  to  the 


OUR  DAILY  BREAD 


701 


flotir  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs;  mix 
thoroughly,  beat  in  the  whites  of  two 
e^gs  beaten  dry,  and  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  melted  butter.  Do  not  add  the 
whites  of  eggs  until  the  waffle  iron 
is  hot  and  the  family  is  ready  for  the 
waffles.  Have  a  cloth  on  a  fork  with 
which,  to  grease  the  iron.  At  once 
put  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture  in  each 
division  of  the  iron  and  let  cook  until 
thoroughly  browned.  With  a  gas 
flame  or  a  coal  fire  burning  uniformly 
close  under  the  iron,  waffles  may  be 
cooked  well  and  expeditiously.  The 
recipe  Will  fill  the  usual  size  of  waffle 
iron  five  times.  These  waffles  may 
be  eaten  from  the  fingers  without 
butter  or  syrup.  The  latter  does  not 
seem  appropriate  after  fish. 

For  dinner,  the  calf's  liver,  left  from 
that  purchased  for  Wednesday's  break- 
fast, seems  to  be  the  article  that  should 
be  presented.  Braised  liver  is  a  much 
prized  dinner  dish,  but  for  this  method 
of  cooking  a  whole  liver  is  prefer- 
able. Then,  too,  if  hashed,  poached 
eggs  may  accompany  it,  and  this 
provides  a  substantial  article  for  the 
children,  one  of  whom  may  not  be  of 
age  to  eat  such  articles  as  liver.  The 
poached  eggs  may  be  served  above 
the  hashed  liver  or  on  rounds  of  toast 
around  the  liver. 

To  prepare  the  liver,  cut  it  into 
slices  and  pour  over  it  boiling  water 
to  cover;  let  stand  five  or  six  minutes, 
then  drain,  wipe  on  a  cloth  and  chop 
fine.  Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  put  in  the  hashed  liver, 
cover  and  let  simmer  very  gently  about 
one  hour,  stirring  occasionally.  Then 
add  a'  dash  of  paprika,  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  two  or  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  hot  water  or  broth,  and  serve 
when  mixed  thoroughly. 

The  potatoes  should  be  set  to  bake 
after  the  liver  has  been  cooking  about 
fifteen  minutes.  Beet  greens,  even 
when  young,  require  long  cooking, 
probably  about  two  hours;  drain  care- 
fully and  season  with  salt  and  plenty 


of  butter.  After  dinner  chop  fine 
whatever  is  left  of  the  green  vegetable, 
beet  greens  or  spinach,  press  it  com- 
pactly into  a  bowl,  and  set  aside  in 
the  refrigerator  that  it  may  be  ready 
to  unmold  for  supper.  Add  a  few 
drops  of  onion  juice  to  the  French 
dressing  served  with  the  chilled  vege- 
table. For  a  change,  use  part  whole 
wheat  flour,  in  making  the  biscuit. 
For  the  pudding,  blanch  one  cup  of 
rice  (bring  quickly  to  the  boiling  point 
in  about  three  pints  of  cold  water,  let 
boil  two  minutes,  drain,  rinse  in  cold 
water  and  drain  again),  add  three 
cups  of  boiling  water,  or  part  milk, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
let  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  ten- 
der. Do  not  stir  but  keep  the  grains 
distinct.  Turn  the  rice  into  a  dish, 
and  return  the  double  boiler  to  the 
fire  with  one  pint  of  milk;  sift  together 
two  tablcspoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  half 
a  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  then  stir  into  the  hot  milk; 
continue  to  stir  until  the  mixture 
thickens,  then  cover  and  let  cook 
ten  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  add  two  tablcspoonfuls  of  sugar 
and  beat  again  and  stir  into  the  hot 
mixture,  then  carefully  fold  in  as  much 
of  the  rice,  as  is  needed  to  make  a 
pudding  of  good  consistency.  Each 
grain  of  rice  should  be  separate  and 
distinct  in  the  mixture,  which  will 
thicken  more  after  it  is  set  into  the 
oven.  Flavor  with  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  or  with  a  grating  of  orange 
or  lemon  rind.  Turn  the  mixture 
into  a  buttered  pudding  dish.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  dry,  then 
beat  in,  gradually,  four  tablcspoonfuls 
of  sugar;  spread  the  meringue  over 
the  pudding.  This  should  be  ready 
when  the  potatoes  and  biscuits  are 
taken  from  the  oven;  reduce  the 
heat  and  let  cook  ten  or  twelve  minutes 
without  taking  on  any  color,  then  in- 
crease the  heat  and  let  color  very 
delicately.  The  rest  of  the  rice  can 
be  used  the  next  day. 


702 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


For  the  soup  at  supper,  cook  half 
a  can  of  tomatoes,  two  slices  of  onion, 
two  branches  of  parsley,  half  a  chili 
pepper,  four  slices  of  carrot  and  half 
a  teaspoonful  of  spiced  herbs,  tied 
in  a  bit  of  cheese-cloth,  twenty  minutes. 
Strain  through  a  sieve  fine  enough 
to  keep  back  the  seeds.  To  the  pulp 
add  the  lamb  broth  or  liquid  from 
the  shoulder  of  lamb  cooked  on  Wed- 
nesday.   Add  salt  as  needed. 

If  a  little  more  consistency  is  desired, 
add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  potato  flour 
stirred    into    a    little    cold    water,    let 


boil  ten  minutes,  skim  and  it  is  ready 
to  serve.  While  the  soup  is  cooking, 
spread  a  tiny  bit  of  butter  on  the 
center  of  Boston  crackers,  split  in 
halves,  and  let  brown  slightly  in  the 
oven.  Toast  the  biscuit,  pulled  apart 
with  the  fingers,  and  prepare  the 
French  dressing.  Allow  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  olive  oil  and  a  scant  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  vinegar  for  each  service. 

The  meals  for  this  day  are  simple 
and  require  only  a  short  attendance 
in  the  kitchen ;  yet  dishes  well  done  re- 
quire carefxil  attention. 


Menu  from  Mary  Elizabeth  Tea  Room,  Boston 

Luncheon  ai  Noon  Tea  until  closing 


SOUPS 


Fish  Chowder 
Chicken  Bouillon 


.15 
.20 


Specials 

Baked  Creamed  Halibut  au  Gratin  .35 

Chicken  Fricass6e  Hot  Biscuit  .45 

Baked  Peppers  Stuffed  with  Chicken  .35 

Baked  Spaghetti,  Toniato,Cheese  and  Bacon  .35 


Salads 

Chicken  Mayonnaise 
Pineapple  arid  Cream  Cheese 

Sandwiches 

Nut  Bread,  Cream  Cheese  and  Olive 
Chopped  Tongue 
Toasted  Anchovy  Paste 
Shrimp  Salad  Sandwich 

Hot  Breads 

Tea  Biscuit 

Buttered  Toast 

Cheese  Muffins 

Home  Made  Crullers 

Tea  Biscuit  and  Marmalade  or  Jam 

Buttered  Toast  and  Mannalade  or  Jam 


.45 
.35 


.25 
.15 
.15 
.15 


.15 
.20 
.20 
.10 
.25 
.25 


Hot  Scotch  Scones 
Toasted  English  Muffin 
Chocolate  Meringue  pie 
Lemon  Meringue  pie 


.15 
.15 
.10 
.10 


Tea,  Coffee,  etc  . 

Pot  for  one  Pot  for  two 


Mary  Elizabeth's  Blend 
English  Breakfast  Tea 
Ceylon  Tea 
Oolong  Tea 
Orange  Pekoe  Tea 
Coffee 


.15 
.15 
.15 
.15 
.15 
.20 


Tea,  cup  .10    Coffee,  cup 

Chocolate,  cup  .10 

Horlicks  Malted  Milk,  cup    .10 

Iced 

Iced  Tea.  glass  .15  Milk,  glass 

Iced  Coffee,  glass        .15  Lemonade,  glass 
Iced  Chocolate,  glass  .15  Orangeade,  glass 


Home  Made  Ice  Cream,  plain 
"         *•  "      sauce 

Home  Made  Cakes 
Ice  Cream,  with  Cherries 
Ice  Cream,  with  Canton  Ginger 


.10  and 


.20 

.20 
.20 
.20 
.20 
.25 
.10 


.10 
.15 
.15 

.15 
.20 
.15 
.20 
.20 


One  portion  served  to  two  persons,  10ce9Usextr§ 


Brick  and  Mortar  Gardens 

By  Virginia  Richmond 


IT  is  a  discoiiraging  prospect,  is  it 
not?  that  little  patch  of  ground 
behind  the  city  house,  often  shut 
in  by  other  buildings,  and  almost  as 
often  simply  a  dumping-ground  for 
debris.  To  the  owner  of  such  a  place, 
who  also  lives  in  it,  there  is  every 
incentive  to  spend  money  and  labor 
on  it,  for  he  has  the  future  before 
him;  and  a  backyard,  granting  un- 
limited fertilizer  and  care,  will  yield 
as  good  results  as  any  other  bit  of 
ground  where  the  same  conditions  pre- 
vail. But  most  city  houses  are  occu- 
pied by  yearly  tenants,  whose  hope 
of  reaping  what  they  sow  is  so  tmcer- 
tain  that  any  effort  toward  improve- 
ment seems  a  waste  of  energy. 

To  the  inexperienced  gardener,  it 
looks  like  too  large  a  contract  to  be 
undertaken,  this  making  the  wilderness 
to  blossom  like  a  rose;  yet  it  can  be 
done  in  a  short  time  and  at  small  cost, 
if  the  gardener  will  be  satisfied  with 
a  few  simple  things,  and  is  not  led  away 
into  experimenting  with  rare  or  diffi- 
cult plants,  for  the  latter  ask  every- 
thing in  the  way  of  care  and  nourish- 
ment before  they  will  yield  anything 
in  return. 

Subsoil  and  stones,  such  as  compose 
the  backyards  of  most  city  gardens, 
do  not  look  like  a  promising  field  for 
cultivation.  They  cannot  be  expected 
to  produce  prize  specimens,  but  with 
a  little  patience,  judgment  and  care 
they  will  give  abundant  greenery  and 
color  from  spring  tmtil  fall,  and  bring 
a  bit  of  country  freshness  between 
the  confining  walls. 

Cultivation,  that  is  the  essential 
point.  The  grocer  will,  for  a  quarter, 
bring  4a  barrel  of  well  decomposed 
manure.  Economically  distributed  close 
to  the  roots  of  the  individual  plants, 
and  with  plenty  of  wateti  a  little  care, 
and  a  reaaonable  amount  of  sunshinei 


a  great  deal  can  be  done,  if  the  soil  is 
thoroughly  cultivated.  By  cultivation 
is  meant  deep  spading  and  turning 
over  of  the  grotmd,  breaking  the  clods, 
picking  out  the  stones,  extirpating  the 
weeds,  and  hoeing  and  raking  tmtil 
the  texture  of  the  earth  is  made  fine 
and  light. 

Of  course,  the  first  step  toward  the 
transformation  of  the  backyard  is  dis- 
posing of  the  trash;  but  only  brickbats, 
old  metal  and  such  need  be  absolutely 
removed.  All  that  can  be  burned, 
especially  old  barrels  and  boxes,  should 
be  burned,  and  the  ashes  scattered, 
as  they  are  a  valuable  fertilizer.  If 
there  are  droppings  of  lime  and  mortar, 
not  in  large  lumps,  these,  too,  may 
be  spread  evenly  over  the  surface  before 
it  is  spaded.  The  most  difficult  soil 
is  that  which  is  not  only  poor,  but  has 
the  quality  of  forming  hard  clods;  for 
whatever  nourishment  it  possesses  is 
locked  up  in  these  lirnips,  which  plant 
roots  cannot  penetrate.  Therefore  sand, 
sawdust,  anything  which,  once  mixed 
with  such  soil,  will  prevent  it  from 
clinging  together  again,  increases  its 
fertility,  even  if  it  adds  no  nourish- 
ment. Where  the  ground  is  of  this 
character,  a  liberal  dressing  of  rather 
fine  coal  ashes  from  the  cellar  furnace, 
which  will  cost  nothing,  will  be  helpful. 

Then  the  ground  must  be  well  spaded, 
hoed  and  raked.  A  laborer  will  charge 
about  a  dollar  and  a  quarter  for  spading 
a  patch  forty  feet  square,  and  it  will 
probably  take  him  little  more  than  two 
hours,  because,  unless  the  hirer  is 
beside  him,  he  will  not  break  the  clods 
he  turns  over,  and  will  skim  off  only 
the  cream  of  the  stones  which  rise 
to  the  surface.  Spading  and  picking 
boulders  are  the  only  back-breaking 
processes.  All  the  rest,  including  hoeing 
and  raking,  can  be  done  by  the  gardener 
hioiflelf. 


703 


704 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


• 

This  work  of  preparing  the  soil  need 
not  necessarily  be  deferred  until  spring. 
If  the  garden  is  begun  later,  there  will 
be  no  immediate  results,  it  is  true, 
for  planting-time  for  annuals  is  over; 
but  in  the  late  summer,  roots  of  peren- 
nial plants  may  be  set  out,  and  they 
will  have  time  to  establish  themselves 
before  winter  and  will  bloom  the  next 
spring  or  summer.  Even  the  late  fall 
is  not  too  late  to  begin,  for  although 
nothing  can  be  planted,  if  the  soil  is 
opened  and  prepared,  frost  will  pene- 
trate and  pulverize  it,  and  throw  up 
more  stones,  and  snow,  which  has  a 
pertain  amount  of  fertilizing  power, 
will  sink  into  and  enrich  it. 

The  average  city-dweller  is  too  inex- 
perienced  in    gardens,    and   too    busy, 
and  has  too  many  more  pressing  de- 
mands  upon   his   resources,    to    spend 
much  time,  skill  or  money  on  his  back- 
yard.    But  it  is   possible   to   make  it 
attractive  at  small  expense,  and  with 
very    little    knowledge,    and    only    as 
much  labor  as  will  be  interesting.     A 
little  work  tells  for  a  great  deal  in  a 
small  space.     If  too  much  is  attempted, 
neglect    and    consequent    failure    will 
result,  so  it  is  best  to  start  with  modest 
plans.     A  flower  border  two  or  three 
feet    wide    next    the    boundary    fence 
all  around,  with  a  square  of  grass  in 
the  middle,  is  the  usual  arrangement, 
because  it  is  the  simplest  and  gives  the 
greatest    results  with  the    least    work. 
Vines  should  be  planted  close  to  the 
fence  and  trained  against  it  on  wires; 
and  if  the  wires  are  run  in  the  same 
direction  as  the  cracks  of  the  fence, 
they  will  be  invisible.     Then  may  come 
a  row  of  the   taller   flowering   plants, 
and  on  the  edge  a  line  of  low-growing 
things.     Do  not  make  the  mistake  of 
stocking  the  border  in  the  spring  with 
potted    plants,  covered    with    flowers. 
The   instant   effect   is   all    that    could 
be  wished,  but  after  the  existing  crop 
of  flowers  has  faded,  the  plants,  which 
have  been  forced  to  exhaustion  in  the 


greenhouse,  will  perish,  or  stand  still 
and  do  nothing  for  the  rest  of  the 
season.  If  plants  are  bought  at  all, 
they  should  be  young,  thrifty  ones 
which  have  never  bloomed.  A  few 
geraniums  and  a  heliotrope  are  a  good 
selection.  Roses  are  not  desirable  be- 
cause they  ask  for  rich  soil,  and,  if 
they  do  not  have  it,  yield  only  a  few, 
poor  flowers.  Moreover,  their  season 
of  bloom  is  short,  and  as  they  take 
up  much  room  and  are  subject  to  many 
diseases  and  insects,  they  are  not  pro- 
fitable occupants.  Baby  ramblers  may 
possibly  be  excepted,  as  they  are  small 
and  the  space  they  fill  may  well  be 
spared,  in  consideration  of  the  splendid 
blotch  of  color  they  make  when  in 
bloom. 

Where  soil  is  extremely  poor,   any- 
thing which  is  patient  enough  to  grow 
in    it    should    be    gratefully    adopted, 
even  some  of  the  common,  wild  things, 
roots  of  which  may  be  obtained  during 
a  day's  trip  in  the  country.     Virginia 
Creeper,    and    Trumpet    Vine,    which 
is  wild  in  some  districts,  are  desirable 
for    the    fence.     Common    Elder    is   a 
clean,    quick-growing    shrub;    and    as 
for    the    despised    Pokeweed,    it   is   so 
handsorhe  a  plant  that,  if  it  were  rare, 
it  would  be  a  garden  aristocrat.     The 
Alianthus,   which   is   really   a   tree,   is 
well  worth  planting  as  a  shrub,  since 
it  requires  no  attention,  and  its  tropical 
leaves   are   free   from   all   disease.    As 
for   Mint,   even   a  broken   sprig  of  it 
will  root  easily,  and  it  spreads  so  quickly 
as  to  become  a  nuisance,  if  it  is  not, 
kept    in    check;    but    it    is    deliriously 
fragrant,    and   is   much   pleasanter   to 
look  at  than  bare  ground. 

Country  friends  are  always  ready 
to  contribute  something  from  their 
gardens;  only,  as  they  do  not  realize 
the  limitations  of  the  city  back-yard 
as  regards  soil  and  exposure,  their 
contributions  may  not  thrive.  Sweet 
Williams,  Striped  Grass,  Tiger  LiHies, 
Orange   Lilies,   Japanese   Honeysuckle; 

(Continued  on  page  722)  - 


IDEAS   U 
ECONOMIES 


Contributions  t< 


this  department  will  be  gladly  received.    Accepted  items  wili  be 
paid  for  at  reasonable  ratea. 


What  is  a  Sandwich? 

THE  answer  to  that  question  would 
have  been  easy,  in  that  far-off 
f)eriod  of  bliss,  when  wc  were  going  fish- 
ing for  minnows  under  the  sawmill 
dam,  and  begged  Katie  for  "aw  jest  a 
couple  uv  sam\viges".  Indeed  there  was 
no  such  question  capable  of  disaission. 
They  just  were,  that's  all.  A  sandwich  ? 
Why, the  idea!  What  should  it  be  but 
a  slice  of  pink,  boiled  ham  with  a  dab 
of  mustard,  if  you  were  old  enough  for 
condiments,  entirely  surrounded  by 
bread  and  butter? 

And  such  bread  and  butter!  The 
kind  that  grew  on  country  pantry 
shelves  after  much  mixing  and  many 
l>eatings,  that  was  baked  the  loveliest 
tender  brown,  and  smellcd,  when  it 
came  out  of  the  oven  —  A-a-a-h  —  U-u- 
u-u-m.  It  doesn't  live  in  cities.  And 
butter  that  dripped  clover  sweetness 
and  all  the  freshness  of  green  growing 
things,  transmuted  into  firm  golden 
pats,  covered  with  a  salty  cloth  in  a 
stone  crock  on  the  cellar  floor. 

Oh,  dear!  Why  could  not  that  supply 
have  been  saved  by  some  sleeping- 
beauty  magic  until  this  degenerate 
day  when  unworthy  imitations  are 
worth  their  weight  in  diamonds.'  The 
descendants  of  that  bread-and-butter- 
making  family  of  blessed  memory  would 
now  be  sailing  giddily  upon  the  top  wave 
of  finance,  and  sticking  up  their  noses 
at' those  other  poor  things,  whose  for- 
bears dealt  with  such  trash  as  oil  and 
railroads. 


Those  were  sandwiches,  of  a  truth. 
But  never  in  this  wide  world  would 
they  recognize  their  grandchildren.  The 
same  f amil  y  name  they  have  kept , 
truly,  but  how  changed  their  indentity. 
They  have  shrunk  in  size,  become 
skinnier  and  skinnier  as  to  the  buttery 
layer,  lost  their  crusts,  which  were  the 
best  part  of  their  country  ancestors, 
and  which  would  make  your  hair  curl, 
if  you  were  to  believe  the  tales  of  some- 
who  were  supposed  to  know  cverj' thing. 
But  their  insidcs!  Faith,  they  have 
multiplied  in  variety  beyond  all  reason 
or  belief. 

They  are  never  sliced  any  more,  be 
they  "ha-aam  —  er  t-o-o-o-ngue — cr 
ch'k'n",  but  chopped  up,  fine  as  fine, 
to  conceal  their  real  identity  from  too 
inquiring  minds.  And,  maybe, they  are 
not  fleshly  food  at  all.  They  may 
chance  to  be  just  greenery-yallery  mixcd- 
up  cheese  and  olives,  or  plain  lettuce 
with  leaky  dabs  of  salad-dressing,  or,may- 
be,  those  mashed-up  pimentoes,  which 
are  nothing  in  the  world  but  expurgated 
red  peppers.  They  may  be  something 
or  other  masquerading  as  chicken  salad, 
or  even  a  fried  egg.  They  may  be 
skimpy  layers  of  scraped  raw  beef  with 
outsides  of  gluten  health  -  bread,  or 
generous  slices  of  hot  roast,  with  floods 
of  gravy  over  the  top.  They  may 
be  diaphanous  as  tissue  paper,  or  an 
entire-course  dinner  between  crisp  tri-  ■ 
angles  of  goldy  brown  toast. 

They  may  cost '  five  cents  and  they 
may  cost  seventy-five.  They  may  live 
on  a  thick  white  plate,  with  an  aquar- 


705 


706 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


ium  globe  upside  down  over  their  heads, 
and  they  may  be  borne  reverently 
upon  a  silver  platter,  on  a  lace  doiley, 
with  an  olive  to  right  and  a  pickle  to 
left,  and  a  lettuce-leaf  cup  of  extra 
mayonnaise  teetering  a  little  to  the 
northeast. 

They  may  be  what  a  dear  old  lady, 
who  had  never  by  any  chance  eaten  one, 
called  a  "cold  dog*',  with  thick  yellow 
mustard  down  his  back  and  a  split  fat 
roll  for  a  covering,  and  they  may  be 
fried  oysters  dripping  catsup  gore.  Eat 
them  with  forks  or  what  was  made 
before  them.  Anything  that  has  a 
top  and  bottom,  with  something  eat- 
able in  the  midst,  is  a  sandwich.  Any- 
thing, with  the  lid  off,  made  in  pretty 
patterns  of  mashed  up  things  out  of  a  bot- 
tle that  makes  you  wonder  whether  they 
really  are  all  right,  with  little  sprinkles 
of  egg-yolk  over  the  top,  to  be  eaten 
only  with  forks,  and  served  at  the  begin- 
ing  of  keep-your-hat-on  luncheon  parties 
and  outrageously  expensive  dinners, 
are  French  cousins  to  our  old  friends. 

Even  the  family  name  is  strangely 
different.  A  canap6  is  a  far  cry  from 
that  sandwich  we  munched  from  one 
hand,  while  we  twiddled  an  angleworm 
from  the  end  of  a  stick  up  and  down 
under  the  ripples  of  the  wash  from  the 
sawmill-dam.  And  for  one  more  such 
luncheon,  the  modem  sandwich  and 
all  its  French  relations  might  pass  on- 
ward out  of  sight  and  out  of  mind, 
unwept,  unhonored  and  unsimg. 

But  they  don't  seem  to  grow  any 
more.     Not  in  cities,  they  don't. 

c.  B.  p. 

*     «     * 

When  is  Economy  not  Economy? 

FALSE   economy   has    been  respon- 
sible for  many  a  failtire. 
'  '^And  its  greatest  devotees  have  been 
•  its  most  absolute  victims. 

"Economy"  should  mean  only  a  wise 
disposal  of  means  to  secure  ultimate 
results. 

On   the   contrary,   it   has   come   to 


represent  only  the  niggardly  self-denial 
and  stinginess  that  thwarts  every  nat- 
ural desire  and  cripples  native  ability 
by  the  chilling  atmosphere  of  con- 
scious poverty. 

"Economy  is  the  road  to  the  poor- 
house,"  says  one  —  and  it  is. 

Can  not  every  one  of  us  recall  some 
poor  creature  who  pinched,  made  over 
and  darned;  who  staid  at  home,  "peeled 
the  potatoes  thin",  "saved  the  nut- 
shells to  kindle  the  fire",  grew  round- 
shouldered  picking  up  pins,  denied 
herself  reading  matter,  because  of  cost; 
had  guests  only  in  stmmier  to  avoid 
expense  of  extra  heat;  gave  up  pleasant 
accomplishments  always  to  "do  some- 
thing useful",  and  finally  came  to  a 
desolate,  friendless,  poverty-stricken  old 
age  by  resaon  of  this  very  narrowing 
of  her  relations  with  her  fellow  beings. 

The  wealthy  ones  of  earth,  if  they 
have  made  their  own,  will  be  foimd  to 
have  spent  liberally  —  but  wisely.  Ex- 
penditure in  the  right  direction,  and 
at  the  right  rate,  is  economy. 

"You  never  reap  from  a  field  that  has 
not  first  been  sown,"  says  the  head  of 
a  great  chemical  company,  that  has 
never  hesitated  to  spend  money  in 
outfitting  and  supporting  a  promising 
employee. 

"If  you  had  only  fifty  dollars  in  the 
world,  what  wotdd  you  do  with  it?" 
asked  a  hesitating  sotd  of  a  man  who  had 
built  himself  up  from  nothing  to  suc- 
cess. 

"I  would  spend  it  at  once,"  was  the 
answer,  "for  a  good  suit  of  dothes, 
knowing  it  would  help  me  to  earn  more." 

That  was  the  reply  of  a  man  who 
felt  ability  within  himself. 

The  man  who  constantly  acts  as  if 
the  dollar  in  his  pocket  were  the  last 
one  he  wotdd  ever  have,  is  consdous  of 
the  lack  of  ability,  unless  he  is  the 
victim  of  early  niggardly  training.  In 
either  case,  he  needs  to  "brace  up", 
and  realize  that  repression  and  denial 
are  not  the  virtues  they  were  once 
''cradced  up"  to  be,  but 


HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 


707 


and    growth    of    individtiality    is    the 
eternal  demand. 

''Economy  consists  of  going  without 
something  you  now  want,  for  the  sake 
of  sometime,  in  the  future,  having 
something  you  very  likely  may  not, 
then,  want,'*  defines  some  one.  It  is 
a  sneer,  —  but  think  it  over. 

Real  economy  implies  seeing  things 
in  true  perspective,  —  not  seeing  small 
details  near  at  hand  so  large  that  they 
look  greater  than  important  matters. 
You've  heard  about  the  copper  cent, 
held  dose  to  the  eye,  that  hid  from 
sight  the  whole  farm.  The  brass  button 
on  the  soldier's  coat  is  not  greater  than 
the  soldier. 

It  is  as  false  economy  to  cripple  the 
present  for  the  future  that  may  never 
come,  as  it  is  to  discount  the  future  for 
the  present. 

What  is  real  economy  under  some 
circumstances,  is  not  so  under  others. 
Louise,  a  stenographer,  after  a  wearing 
day  at  the  office,  sits  up  late,  sometimes, 
daintily  darning  fine  black  hose.  Her 
maiden  aunt  after  whom  she  is  named 
has  impressed  it  upon  her  that  she 
should  be  ''economical." 

Louise,  the  maiden  aimt,  has  no 
driving  duties,  lives  on  an  assured 
income,  — ^  the  interest  on  inherited 
money,  has  no  way  of  earning  more 
money  than  the  darning  saves,  and  so, 
in  her  case, it  may  possibly  be  a  merit 
to  keep  her  clothes  in  perfect  condition 
by  hours  of  careful  darning  and  mending. 
But  with  Louise,  the  stenographer,  it 
is  diflEerent. 

Her  work-filled  day  leaves  her  jaded 
and  in  need  of  outside  "good  time," 
rather  than  eye  and  nerve  trying  darn- 
ing in  the  evening. 

Better  save  the  nerves  than  the 
stockings. 

An  evening  of  ** jolly  good  time" 
in  the  open  air,  with  good  company, 
would  send  her  back  to  the  office,  not 
jaded  as  she  often  goes  at  present, 
but  bright  of  eye  and  alert  of  brain. 
And  the  consequence  might  very  well 


be  an  increased  usefulness  that  would 
lead  to  increased  salary,  enabling  her 
to  wear  new  instead  of  darned  hose. 

Economy  is  not  an  end  in  itself,  but 
a  means  to  be  studied  out  to  the  perfect 
accomplishment  of  a  desirable  end. 

E.  p.  c. 

*     *     « 

The  Studio  Tea  Room 
26  West  40th,  Street, 

New  York  City. 
To  the  Editor 
Boston  Cooking  School  Magazine, 

WHEN  asked,  to-day,  how  I  thought 
of  so  many  dainty  dishes  to  serve 
in  my  Tea  Room,  I  answered,  "I  get 
them  from  'The  Boston  Cooking  School 
Magazine'  ".  The  magazine  has  been 
of  untold  help  to  me  and  I  would  like 
to  pass  on  the  knowledge  of  it  to  others. 

I  began  my  work  with  no  capital, 
no  knowledge  of  cooking  and  very 
little  idea  of  business  methods;  now  I 
have  one  of  the  most  successful  small 
tea  rooms  in  New  York  City. 

I  started  with  a  handsomely  furnished 
studio  and  two  people  who  wished  food, 
now  I  have  about  one  hundred  people 
per  day  —  on  an  average,  for  luncheon, 
dinner  and  tea.  You  can  not  imagine 
what  a  comfort  the  "50  Cent  Luncheons" 
for  20  business  men,  given  in  the 
January  number  of  your  magazine,  were 
to  me.  Those  menus  gave  me  a  new 
lease  of  life. 

This  year  at  Christmas  time  I  made 
a  specialty  of  English  Goodie  baskets, 
attractively  put  up  and  suitable  for 
a  gift.    Each  basket  contained: 

6  Individual  Pliun  Puddings 

6  Individual  Fruit  Cakes 

6  Individual  Mince  Pies 

The  cost  of  this  basket  was  four  dol- 
lars and  fifty  cents.  Orders  are  taken 
for  pies,  cakes  and  sandwiches,    t.  c.  l. 

*      Mit       * 

"Healthful  and  Soothing  Drink." 

HEALTHFUL    as    well  as  soothing 
drink  is,  according    to    a    physi- 
cian's prescription!  made  as  follows. 


708 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Cover  two  pounds  of  round  steak 
with  plenty  of  cold  water.  Let  soak 
over  night. 

At  the  same  time,  put  to  soak  in 
another  dish  of  cold  water  —  diced 
carrots,  parsnips,  onions,  beets,  etc., 
spinach,  celery  with  cut  tops,  chopped 
lettuce  and  any  other  vegetables  rich 
in  mineral  salts.     Let  stand  over  night. 

In  the  morning  simmer,  separately, 
for  six  hours,  the  meat  and  vegetables 
in  the  water  in  which  they  soaked. 

Drain  vegetables  and  strain  the  water 
into  a  dish. 

Strain  meat  liquor,  skim  off  fat. 
Mix  the  two  liquors  and  set  aside  for 
further  use.  A  Httle  of  this  heated 
and  served  as  a  bouillon  with  wafers 
is  delicious,  or  as  a  drink  on  retiring 

will  induce  sleep.  l.  c.  p. 

♦     *     ♦ 

A  Vanity  Luncheon 

MAY  was  the  daintiest  of  spring- 
time brides,  but  as  the  wedding 
day  drew  near,  and  we,  her  five  faithful 
bridesmaids,  had  not  yet  seen  the  trous- 
seau, we  were  athrill  with  ciuiosity. 
Her  taste  was  so  exquisite  and  her  needle 
work  so  fine  that  we  could  hardly 
wait.  Finally,  a  few  weeks  before  the 
wedding,  the  aforementioned  five  were 
bidden  to  a  luncheon  given  by  May's 
married  sister.  Upon  the  invitation 
cards  a  miniature  colored  fashion-figure 
had  been  pasted.  Beside  it  the  follow- 
ing verse  was  artistically  printed  in 
gold:  — 

*'Come  to  the  Dwelling  of  Vanity  Fair, — 
Fashions  from  Paris  we'll  show  you! 
Beauty  and  Springtime  and  Youth  wiU  be  there,— 
Here's  that  the  Trio  may  know  you! 
One  O'clock  Luncheon. 
691  Drayton  Boulevard. 
April  Twenty-first." 

Upon  arriving  in  a  body,  we  were 
shown  to  an  upstairs  room  where  May 
and  her  sister,  in  black  gowns,  French 
cbiffures  and  complexions,  and  the  most 
elegant  of  French  accents  and  gestures, 
were  displaying  hats.  The  room  was 
lighted    by    candles    and    filled    with 


mirrors.  Fashion-plates  and  bright- 
colored  fashion  pages  were  hung  all 
about,  while  the  hats,  huge  crepe- 
paper  affairs,  were  arrayed  on  standards. 
Great  bunches  of  paper  flowers  gave 
the  room  a  festive  air. 

One  by  one,  the  guests  were  seated 
at  a  mirror,  and  with  many  comments 
and  compliments,  each  was  fitted  out 
with  a  marvelous  hat,  in  her  own  par- 
ticular color.  To  each  hat  was  pinned 
a  verse,  such  as  the  following:  — 

"You  merry  little  tomboy  with  the  lively  dash- 
ing manner. 

May  you  keep  me  neat  and  charming  all  the 
year.— 
*  Do  not  use  me  for  a  tennts-ball»  or  equal  suffrage 
banner, 

But  remember,  I'm  a  hat,  a  hat,  my  dear." 

Another  was:  — 

"I  am  the  hat  for  a  maiden  demure. 

Gentle,  coquettish  and  shy; 
Meekly  I'll  charm  you  and  gravely  allure. 

Nlodest  yet  fetching  am  I." 

Still  another  was :  — 

"I'm  a  naughty  little  hat. 
Do  not  ask  me  what  I'm  "at"; 
When  those  eyes  are  'neath  my  brim. 
No  use  trying  to  be  prim, 
No  use  saying  I'm  sedate. 
Only  trust  I'll  stay  on  straight." 

When  the  hats  were  duly  "sold", 
we  wore  them  down  to  the  dining-room 
to  a  delicious  spring-like  luncheon. 
White  hyacinths  held  the  center  of 
the  round  table,  and  there  was  a  nose- 
gay of  violets  at  each  plate.  The  candles 
were  yellow,  while  violet  satin  ribbons 
were  caught  from  the  chandelier  above 
to  each  of  the  seven  places.  The 
color -scheme  so  far  as  possible  was 
violet,  white  and  gold.  The  favors 
were  tiny  gold  vanity  boxes. 

After  the  luncheon  was  over,  we  were 
ushered,  with  accompanjdng  music  and 
ceremony,  to  a  pretty  upstairs  room, 
where  the  lovely  trousseau  was  dis- 
played to  our  delighted  eyes. 

A  foolish  "Vanity  Party"  worthy  of 
the  name?  Perhaps,  but  I  do  not 
think  so.  We  were  all  intimate  friends 
happy  "together  in  the  love  of  "Beauty 
and  Springtime  and  Youth."    H.c.Le  b. 


HOME    IDEAS   AND    ECONOMIES 
**Carrot  Conserve."  "Cucumber  Relish." 


709 


THE  last  thing  on  earth  which  was 
guessed  at  a  Culinary  Guessing 
Contest,  was  the  above  concoction,  the 
recipe  for  which  is  given  below: 

Dice  carrots  until  very  small  and  cook 
very  tender,  cooking  the  water  out  of 
them.  When  cooked  allow  one  quart 
of  carrots,  one  and  one-half  coffee  cups 
of  sugar,  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  a  good  sized  lemon.  Cook  again 
until  thick.  This  can  be  made  any 
time  through  the  winter  when  other 
jam  supplies  run  low.  -  It  has  a  very 
rich  flavor  on  the  order  of  quince  or 
melons  or  orange  mamjalades. 

''Horseradish   and   Beet  Relish." 

One  of  the  most  appetizing  relishes 
ever  eaten  is  that  made  of  pickled  beets 
and  grated  horse-radish.  This  relish 
keeps  fresh  all  winter. 

Allow  one  cup  of  horse-radish  to  a 
quart  of  chopped  beets,  after  they  are 
pickled. 

One  woman  has  disposed  of  a  large 
quantity  of  this  to  her  friends  and 
acquaintances.  While  fresh  horse-rad- 
ish is  more  desirable  in  making  this, 
the  bottled  answers  very  well. 


Large  partly  ripe  cucumbers  are 
liked  best  for  this  purpose. 

Cut  the  cucumbers  in  halves,  length- 
wise, remove  seeds  and  soft  portion, 
then  grate  and  measure;  allow  one- 
half  as  much  vinegar  as  there  is  pulp. 
To  each  quart  of  pulp  allow  two  even 
teaspoons  of  salt,  four  teaspoons  of 
grated  horse-radish,  and  one  fourth  a 
teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper.  Mix  well 
and  bottle.  If  corks  are  used,  seal 
with  wax.     Use  cider  vinegar,    c.  m.  a. 

«    «    * 

"Mighty  Good  Dog  Biscuit." 

FOR  a  hot  breakfast  dish  or  a  cold 
picnic  lunch,  try  this,  a  favorite 
among  the  Mexicans,  with  the  allur- 
ing name  of  "dog  biscuit". 

Common  biscuit  dough  is  rolled  very 
thin  and  cut  as  usual;  then  a  thin 
slice  of  bologna  sausage  is  laid  between 
two  of  these,  the  edges  pressed  lightly 
together,  and  they  are  baked  in  a  quick 
oven  just  like  ordinary  biscuit.  People 
who  will  not  cat  bologna  usually  are 
exceedingly  fond  of  these,  for  the  meat 
is  thoroughly  cooked  and  its  flavor 
permeates  the  dough.  l.  m.  c. 


Eve  Exonerated 


Grandma  Eve  was  planning  dinner 

In  a  worried  sort  of  way, 
Adam  really  was  much  thinner 

And  that  noon  she'd  heard  him  say: 

'I  am  tired  of  prunes  and  peanut?, 

I  just  hate  to  see  a  date, 
And  the  garden  truck  this  garden  cuts 

Is  enough  to  nauseate!*' 

So  she  planned  a  toothsome  entree. 
Donned  her  fig-leaf  overskirt» 

Started  out  to  search  the  country 
For  some  new  kind  of  dessert. 

Something  pungent,  apt  to  tickle 
Adam's  tummy  as  he'd  gnaw. 

Tempting  to  his  palate  fickle — 
Pity  our  first  mother-in-law! 


She  was  doing  tragic  thinking, 

When  that  famous  snake,  the  brute. 

Came  a-creeping-crawling-slinking-  - 
Slyly  said,  "Just  try  this  fruit!" 

So  for  grandpa's  sake  she  tried  it, 

Everybody  knows  the  rest. 
Generations  have  implied  that , 

Otherwise,  we'd  all  be  blest. 

You  can  grasp  the  moral  easily, 

The  problem  need  not  baffle. 
Desserts  should  always  simple  be — 

Just  hand  him  out  an  apple. 

Or  in  Latin — "Quae  fuerant  vitia  mores  sunt!" 
Though  the  thing  was  once  quite  wicked,  it  is 
now  a  stylish  stunt! 

Lucille  Van  Slyke 


THIS  dep«rtroent  it  for  the  beDeAt  and  free  use  of  our  aubsctiben.  Quertlona  nUtii^ 
to  redpa.  Hid  tboae  pertaiaiDg  to  culioarf  science  and  domestic  ccoDomici  in  geaetal,  will 
be  cheerfullj  uuweied  bf  the  editor.  Commiuiiaitiona  for  this  departmcDt  miut  reach  us  before  the 
fint  of  the  month  preceding  that  Id  which  the  anawera  are  expected  to  appear.  Id  letters  reqnoting 
•nawen  hy  mail,  pleaaa  eaclose  addressed  aod  itamped  cDvelope.  For  nieDiu  reDiit  $1.00.  Addrcai 
queries  to  Janet  M.  Hill,  Editor.    Boston  Cook  mo -School  Haoaziiic  373  BojUton  St,  Bocton,  HaM. 


Proper  Food  to  Serve  with  Meats 

Meat  is  digested  in  the  stomach, 
the  digestive  fluids  of  which  are  acid. 
We  suppose  this  is  the  reason  why  the 
question  of  the  propriety  of  eating 
bread  or  other  starchy  food  with 
meat  arises.  Theoretically,  green  salad 
plants  and  vegetables  deficient  in  starch 
are  indicated  as  the  proper  accom- 
paniments of  meat  and  fish.  At  the 
same  time,  we  must  remember  that 
bread  and  other  starchy  food,  rice, 
macaroni,  etc..  are  largely  digested  by 
the  ptyalin  of  the  saliva  in  the  mouth; 
the  digestion  begun  in  the  mouth  is 
continued  only  a  short  time  in  the 
stomach,  being  arrested  when  the  mass 
becom  s  impregnated  with  the  add 
se::retions  of  the  stomach.  But  in 
a  state  of  health,  the  digestion  of  the 
starch  will  be  completed  by  the  pan- 
creas and  the  intestine.  In  disease, 
if  there  is  overacidity  of  the  stomach, 
it  might  be  well  to  limit  the  food 
taken  at  one  time  to  such  articles  as 
calls  for  acid  to  digest  it.  Then,  when 
starchy  food  is  eaten,  take  it  alone; 
as  the  presence  or  sight  of  food  calls 
out  a  flow  of  the  juices  that  digest  it, 
the  flow  of  acid  fluids  would  be  depressed 
snd  the  saliva  in  the  mouth  and  pep- 
sin in  the  stomach  would  keep  the 
starch  in  good  condition  for  the  final 


digestion^in  the  pancreas  and  intestine. 
Also,  as  bulk  of  food  makes  for  ease  in 
digestion,  in  a  normal  condition  of 
health,  we  should  think  it  best  to  take 
some  starchy  food  at  a  meal  in  which 
fish  or  meat  was  eaten. 

Query  2150.— "Recipe  for  ThousaDd  Island 
Salad  Dressing." 

Thousand  Island  Salad  Dressing 

1  cup  mayonnaise  '  1  tablespoonful  chop- 

i  cup  olive  oil  I     ped  pimientos 

!  tablespoonful  tarra-        1  tablespoonful  chopped 
Kon  vineear  I     green  pepper 

1 1  cooked  yolk,  sifted 


Query  2151. — "How  much  Potato  Yeasi 
(home-made)  should  be  used  in  place  of  a  cake 
of  compressed  yeast." 

Potato  Yeast 

Equivalent  to  One  Cake  of  Compressed 

Yeast 

Probably    one    cup    of    home-made 

yeast  will  take  the  place  of  one  cake 

of  compressed  yeast. 

Query  2152.— "  Recipe  (or  White  Fruit 
Cake." 

White  Fruit  Cake 


3  lbs.  butter 

2  quarts  granulated 

4i  cups  sifted  flour 

3  lbs.  white  Sultana 

2  oz.rose  extract 


(Charleston  Receipt) 

1  tablespoonful  ground 


3  lbs.  citron 
3  tbs.  dielled  almonds 
(blanched    and    pow- 

3  lbs.  fresh  o 


QUERIES    AND    ANSWERS 


711 


1  dozen  eggs  i     nutmeg 

2  tablespoonfuls  ground  1 1  cup  whiskey 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner  and  cover 
with  frosting,  made  of  4  ounces  almond 
paste,  two  yolks  of  eggs  and  sifted 
confectioners  sugar  to  make  a  paste 
that  may  be  rolled  to  fit  the  cake. 
When  ready  to  use  the  cake,  cover 
with  boiled  icing. 


Query    2153. — "Please    repeat    recipes    for 
Castellane  Pudding  and  Mont  Blanc.*' 


2  teaspoonfuls  van- 
illa extract 

J  pound  French  fruit 
Maraschino 

2  ounces  gelatine 

1  cup  cold  water 


1  pound  French  chest- 
nuts 
1  cup  sugar 
i  cup  water 
1  quart  milk 
The  yolks  of  eight  eggs 
i  cup  sugar 

Castellane  Pudding 

Shell,  blanch  and  .cook  the  chestnuts, 
then  pound  in  a  mortar,  with  the  sugar 
and  water,  cooked  together  five  minutes, 
and  pass  through  a  sieve.  Make  a 
boiled  custard  with  the  milk,  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  the  half  cup  of  sugar;  add  the 
gelatine,  softened  in  the  cold  water,  and 
strain  into  the  chestnut  mixture.  Set 
into  a  pan  of  ice  water  and  beat  with  a 
whisk  until  the  mixture  begins  to  set. 
Let  the  fruit,  half  a  cup  of  chest- 
nuts, pineapple,  cherries,  etc.,  all  cut  in 
small  pieces,  stand  some  time  covered 
with  maraschino.  When  the  mixture 
begins  to  set,  drain  the  fruit  and  put  into 
a  mold,  alternately,  with  the  chestnut 
preparation.  Let  stand  until  very  cold 
and  set.  Serve  with  whole  chestnuts, 
cooked  in  syrup  and  flavored  with 
vanilla.  This  amount  will  serve  eigh- 
teen people. 

Mont  Blanc 

Press  one  pint  of  cooked  chestnuts 
through  a  sieve;  add  one-third  a  cup  of 
sugar,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  mix  thoroughly 
and  shape  in  a  dome  on  a  serving  dish. 
Beat  one  cup  and  a  half  of  cream,  one- 
third  a  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  vanilla  and  spread  or  pipe 
it  over  the  chestnut  pur6e. 


Query  2154. — "Recipe  for  Raised  (yeast) 
Doughnuts." 

Yeast  Doughnuts 

About  seven  o'clock  in  the  morning, 
crumble  one  or  two  yeast  cakes  into  a 
cup  of  scalded-and-cooled  milk;  .mix 
thoroughly,  then  beat  in  about  one  cup 
and  a  fourth  of  bread  flour.  Beat 
until  smooth,  cover  and  set  aside  until 
well-puffed  up  and  full  of  bubbles 
(about  one  hour).  Add  two  eggs,  half 
a  cup  of  sugar,  one  third  a  cup  of  melted 
butter,  half  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of 
salt  and  ground  mace,  and  flotir  enough 
for  a  soft  dough.  Nearly  four  cups  of 
flour  (in  sponge  and  dough)  will  be 
needed.  Knead  the  dough  until  smooth 
and  elastic,  cover  and  let  stand  until 
doubled  in  bulk.  The  time  of  rising 
will  vary,  but  probably  by  eleven  o'clock, 
at  the  latest,  the  dough  will  be  ready 
to  turn  upon  a  floured  board.  Pat  the 
dough  into  a  sheet  about  three-fourths 
an  inch  thick.  Cut  in  strips  three- 
fourths  an  inch  wide,  twist  and  lengthen 
these,  then  shape  like  the  figure  eight. 
Let  stand  on  the  board,  closely  covered, 
until  light  throughout.  Fry  in  deep 
fat,   dredge   with   confectioner's  sugar. 

■  ■  ■  ^ 

Query  2155. — "In  a  dessert  containing 
milk,  gelatine,  cornstarch,  eggs,  etc,  what  is  the 
correct  order  of  adding  the  thickening  ingred- 
ients to  the  milk?" 

Order  of  Adding  Ingredients 

We  do  not,  as  a  rule,  cook  gelatine ; 
eggs  are  cooked  delicately  and  starch 
is  cooked  thoroughly.  This  then  gives 
the  order  in  which  they  should  be 
added  to  the  milk.  Scald  the  milk, 
add  the  starch  and  let  cook  fifteen 
minutes;  add  the  eggs  and  stir  until 
*'set";  remove  from  the  fire  and  add 
the  gelatine,  previously  softened  in  cold 
water. 

Query  2156. — "Kindly  give  a  few  good 
recipes  of  dishes  suitable  to  be  served  in  rame- 
kins." 

Suitable  Dishes  to  Serve  in 
Ramekins 

Very    small    ramekins,    two    inches 


712 


QUERIES    AND    ANSWERS 


across  the  top,  are  used  to  hold  sauce 
for  oyster,  lobster  and  other  cocktails. 
See  illustration  in  "Seasonable  Recipes" 
in  this  issue.  Ramekins  of  this  same 
size,  holding  sauce  tart  are,  are  set  on 
a  plate  on  which  fried  fillets  of  fish, 
fried  oysters,  lobster  chops  or  other 
similar  dish  is  passed.  Such  use  is 
permissible,  when  the  article  and  the 
ramekin  of  sauce  are  passed  on  the  same 
plate.  Creamed  fish,  oysters,  lobster, 
crabflakes,  chicken,  sweetbreads,  etc., 
may  be  served  in  ramekins.  When 
covered  with  buttered  crumbs,  either 
with  or  without  grated  cheese,  the  dish 
becomes  en  ramekin  au  gratin.  If 
the  sauce  be  highly  seasoned  with  tab- 
asco, paT)rika,  cayenne  or  chili  peppers, 
it  is  called  Deviled  Lobster,  crabflake 
etc.  Tomato  or  Bechamel  sauce  may 
replace  the  cream  sauce,  when  the  name 
of  the  dish  is  changed  accordingly. 

Sliced  Eggs  in  Ramekins 

Hard-cooked  eggs,  cut  in  slices  or 
cubes,  may  be  served  in  ramekins, 
mixed  with  any  of  the  above  mentioned 
sauces.  Mushrooms  fresh  or  canned, 
may  be  used  with  eggs  or  any  article, 
in  any  variety  of  sauce. 

Eggs  Cooked  in  Ramekins 

A  tablespoonful  of  sauce  or  cream 
may  be  turned  into  a  buttered  ramekin; 
above  this  break  an  egg,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  pour  on  another  table- 
spoonful  of  sauce  or  cream  (prefer- 
ably hot)  and  let  cook  in  hot  water 
in  the  oven  until  the  egg  is  *'set*'. 

Eggs  with  D'Uxelles  in  Ramekins 

Cook  as  above  substituting  d*uxelles 
preparation  (See  Seasonable  Recipes) 
for  the  cream  or  sauce.  Fine-chopped 
ham  or  chicken  and  soft,  sifted  bread 
crumbs,  mixed  with  cream,  may  replace 
the  d'uxelles. 


Query  2157. — "If  baked  potatoes  are  removed 
from  the  oven  as  soon  as  they  are  soft,  is  any 
considerable  quantity  of  the  starch  dextrinized?" 


Dextrine  in  Baked  Potatoes 

We  haVe  not  seen  tabulated  resalt.> 
of  experiments  in  determining  the  ooir- 
position  of  baked  potatoes,  but  think 
it  doubtful  if  there  be  any  appreciable 
quantity  of  dextrine  present  in  a 
baked  potato.  Probably,  if  any  of 
the  starch  be  dextrinized,  it  is  that 
contained  in  the  skin  or  so  close  to  it 
that  it  is  rarely  eaten.  Dextrine  is 
present  in  the  crust  of  a  well-baked 
loaf  of  bread.  _ 

Query  2158.— "Recipe  for  Welsh  Rabbit 
as  made  at  the Hotel." 

Welsh  Rabbit 

We  are  unable  to  give  the  recipe  as 
made  at  the  hotel  referred  to.  Also, 
it  is  more  than  probable  that  more 
than  one  recipe  is  used  for  this  dish, 
at  the  place  designated.  We  append 
several  recipes,  all  of  which  give  satis- 
factory results. 

Welsh  Rabbit  (with  Ale) 

Butter  a  blazer  or  a  double  boiler 
with  ample  surface  on  the  bottom: 
add  half  a  pound  of  common,  factory 
cheese,  rich  and  soft,  cut  into  thir 
bits,  also  one-fourth  a  teaspoonful. 
each,  of  salt,  cayenne  or  paprika  and 
mustard;  stir  constantly  until  the  cheese 
melts,  then  stir  in  ale,  gradually,  until 
the  whole  is  a  smooth  creamy  mass  of 
the  consistency  desired.  Serve  at  once 
on  the  untoasted  side  of  bread  toasted 
on  but  one  side. 

Welsh  Rabbit  (with  Cream  and 
Egg-Yolks) 

Prepare  as  above,  using  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  beaten  and  mixed  with  half 
a  cup  of  cream,  in  place  of  the  ale.  A 
Welsh  rabbit,  at  the  present  time,  if 
not  when  the  dish  was  first  named. 
is  often  flavored  with  two  or  three 
spoonfuls  of  a  foreign  cheese  or  with 
Worcestershire,  tabasco  or  chili  sauce. 
A  rabbit  in  which  tomato  purte,  highly 
seasoned,    takes    the    place    of    cream 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  subMitutea 


714 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


(with  the  egg-yolks)  is  good,  so,  also, 
is  the  Mexican  rabbit  —  made  with 
komlet,  green  pepper  in  shreds  and 
pieces  of  tomato.  The  Mexican  rabbit 
was  first  given  in  this  magazine. 

Query   2159. — "How  long  does  it   take  to 
cook  mushrooms."? 

Time  of  Cooking  Mushrooms 

Fresh  mushrooms  will  cook  in  from 
ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 


Query  2160. — "Recipe  for  English  Muffins." 

English  Muffins 

Soften  a  yeast  cake  in  half  a  cup  of 
lukewarm  water.  Add  this  to  a  cup  of 
scalded-and-cooled  milk,  into  which  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  have  been 
melted.  Add  also  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  one  cup  and  a  half  of  sifted 
bread  flotir.  Beat  the  above  mixttire  un- 
til it  is  very  smooth.  Then  cover,  and 
set  to  rise.  When  the  sponge  is  light, 
beat  into  it  about  two  cups,  or  two  and 
one-fourth  cups,  of  flour,  continuing  the 
beating  some  few  minutes  (eight  or  ten), 
to  make  a  tough  batter.  Cover,  and  let 
stand  until  again  light.  The  mixture  is 
now  ready  to  use,  or  it  may  be  cut  down, 
covered,  and  set  into  the  refrigerator 
until  morning.  When  ready  to  bake, 
cut  the  dough  into  twenty-foiu*  pieces. 
Knead  these  with  flotired  hands  or  on  a 
well-floured  board  (the  dough  is  rather 
soft).  Then  pat  them  to  the  size  of  the 
rings.  Have  the  board  well-floured, 
and  the  muflSn  rings  well-buttered.  Put 
the  rings  on  the  board  and  the  dough 
in  the  rings,  and  cover  close  with  a 
pan  or  cloth.  When  the  dough  a 
little  more  than  half  fills  the  rings, 
remove  the  rings  and  dough  with  a 
spatula  to  a  well-heated  and  buttered 
griddle.  Keep  the  griddle  of  uniform 
heat,  and,  when  the  muffins  are  baked 
on  one  side,  tiun  muffins  and  rings,  and 
bake  the  other  side.  When  the  muffins 
are  baked,  cut  through  the  crust,  then 
tear  apart  with  the  fingers  (as  a  cracker 
is  split),  and  toast  the  halves  over  a 
bed  of  coals.     Spread  the  rough  side 


with  butter  as  soon  as  toasted,  and  serve 
at  once.  The  muffin  rings  used  for 
this  recipe  were  two  and  three-fourths 
inches  in  diameter.  Rings  of  a  larger 
size  may  be  used.  Toasted  muffins 
are  served  with  marmalade  and  tea 
as  a  light  lunch,  or  with  a  green  veg- 
etable salad  and  cheese  as  a  salad 
course. 


Query  2161. — "Which  is  the  most  approved 
article  or  utensil  for  serving  water  at  the  table. 
the  pitcher  or  the  caraf^?" 

Utensil  for  Water 

Whether  a  caraf6  or  a  pitcher  be 
used  in  suppl3ring  water  at  the  table 
is  a  matter  of  individual  taste.  The 
pitcher  is  certainly  the  easiest  to  keep 
in  good  condition.  A  caraf6  may  be 
kept  clean  and  free  from  discolorations 
on  the  inside  by  shaking  in  it  rice 
or  potato  parings  and  water,  and  then 
by   washing   and   rinsing. 


Query   2162.— ''What  is  the  proper  width 
for  hems  of  plain  tablecloths  and  napkins?" 

Width  of  Hem  for  Tablecloth,  etc. 

A  little  less  than  one-fourth  an  inch 
is  the  approved  width  of  hems  for 
common  table  linen. 


Query  2163. — "Please  give  a  list  of  diff- 
erent hot  breads  with  the  distinguishing  features 
of  each." 

Names  and  Distinguishing 
Featiires  of  Hot  Breads,  etc. 

To  name  and  feature  correctly  the 
various  kinds  of  hot  breads  requires 
much  research  and  discussion  and  it 
can  not  be  attempted  with  any  degree 
of  thoroughness  or  finality.  We  will 
refer  to  a  few  of  the  more  generally 
known  varieties.  The  terms  Gems  and 
Muffins  seem  to  be  used  indiscrimin- 
ately for  drop  batter  preparations  baked 
in  utensils  divided  into  spaces  for  indi- 
vidual portions. 

Griddlecakes  or  stone  cakes  were 
formerly  elementary  preparations  of 
flour  and  liquid  baked  on  a  circular 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


EDDY^in^^lMs 


They  Stand  Back  of  Every 

Successful  Housewife 

EDDY  Refrigeralon  are  backed  up  by  practical 
experience  u  well  at  by  scientific  coostructioD. 

EDDYRefrigeralonatemadenght  Thickwalk, 
with  an  aii  cnrculatton  that  ii  perfect,  the  hot  ak  U  kept 
out,  and  the  cold  air  ii  coofined  in  nich  a  mannet  that 
you  obtain  the  greateil  result!  ftorn  the  ice. 

EDDY  Refrigerator!  are  made  of  white 
pine,  which  wood  ii  the  hett  non-coDductoi 
i^  heaL  Fitted  with  date  itooe  shehrc!, 
which  retain  (he  cdd  and  are  mo*t  tanitaiy 
m  evoy  paiticulai. 

For  67  yeara  EDDY  Refrigerator! 
have  piea!ed  niccenful  houKwivet. 

Auk  to  ite  them  at  vour  dealeTB 
Send  for  ISM  ealaloa 

D.  EDDY  &  SONS  CO. 

BOSTON,  MASS. 


Buy  advettiaed  Gooda  —  dojiot  accept  aubatitute* 


716 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


plate  of  iron  over  the  open  fire.  At  the 
present  time  eggs  and  butter  are  often 
added,  but  shortening  is  not  added  to 
make  a  crisp,  rich  cake. 

Pancakes  are  made  of  flbtir,  eggs, 
milk  cream  or  butter  and  admit  of  the 
introductions  of  grated  potatoes,  either 
raw  or  cooked,  cooked  rice  etc.  Pan- 
cakes, like  griddle  cakes,  should  be 
eaten  at  once,  from  the  pan  or  griddle. 

Waffles  are  artistically  shaped  pan- 
cakes ;  the  name  is  related  to  the  German 
name  meaning  honeycomb.  On  account 
of  their  crispness,  they  are  not  as 
easily  spoiled  as  the  ordinary  pancake. 
Waffles  are  baked  on  specially  construc- 
ted irons  which  allow  a  large  heated 
surface  to  come  in  contact  with  the 
dough,  thus  producing  a  quickly  and 
evenly  baked,  light-brown  product. 

Flapjacks,  slapjacks,  batter  cakes  and 
hotcakes  are  probably  local  names  for 
griddle  cakes. 

Scones  are  a  dough  similar  to  Amer- 
ican biscuit  dough,  cut  in  shapes  and 
baked  on  a  griddle,  first  on  one  side 
and  then  on  the  other.  Eggs  are 
often  used  in  the  dough  and  the  shapes 
are  baked  in  the  oven. 


Seasonable  Recipes 

(CoalBuecl  from  Pi«e  697) 


Query  2164.— "What  is  the  difference  be- 
tween doughnuts  and  crullers?  Is  it  correct 
to  use  the  term  biscuit  in  connection  with 
thin  batters,  raised  with  yeast  and  poured 
into  muffin  pans  to  rise?" 

Doughnuts  and  Crullers 

Some  authorities  call  fried  mixtures 
in  which  yeast  is  used,  doughnuts, 
and  fried  mixtures,  lightened  with  soda 
and  cream-of-tartar  or  the  equivalent, 
crullers.  Others  call  a  *  fried  mixture, 
circular  in  shape  with  a  hole  in  the  center 
a  doughnut  and  a  fried  mixture  that 
was  cut  into  strips  and  twisted  before 
frying,  a  cruller. 

Name  of  Yeast  Batters  Baked  in 

Gem  Pans 

We  should  call  a  yeast  batter  baked 
in  gem  pans  yeast  muffins  rather  than 
yeast  biscuit. 


tins.  When  baked  and  cold  invert, 
spread  a  little  white  boiled  frosting 
over  the  top  and  at  the  center  coil 
a  little  rose  tinted  frosting,  sprinkle  the 
whole  with  chopped  pistachio  nuts. 
The  recipe  makes  about  twenty  little 
cakes.  Three-fourths  a  cup  of  sugar 
and  one  white  of  egg  will  give  an  ample 
quantity  of  frosting.  Take  out  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  frosting  to  tmt 
for  the  center.  Do  not  use  the  frosting 
until  it  is  cold  and  will  hold  its  shape. 
Then  the  pink  frosting  may  be  handled 
to  leave  a  dot  of  white  at  the  center 
and  it  will  also  stand  up  a  little  and 
show  lines  or  shadings  of  white  here 
and  there. 

Rice  Croquettes,  Easter  Style 

Blanch  three-fourths  a  cup  of  rice; 
add  three  cups  of  milk  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  let  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  imtil  the  grains  of  rice  are  tender 
and  the  milk  is  absorbed.  Add  one- 
fourth  a  cup,  each,  of  sugar  and  butter 
and  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs; 
mix  carefully,  cover  and  let  stand  about 
five  minutes  to  cook  the  eggs,  then 
turn  on  to  a  buttered  plate.  When 
partly  cooled,  from  into  egg -shapes 
with  a  teaspoonftil  of  orange  marmalade 
in  the  center  of  each.  Roll  in  sifted 
bread  crumbs  (stale  but  not  dry  bread), 
then  in  beaten  egg  and  again  in  crumbs. 
Fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  soft  paper. 
Serve  hot  as  a  dessert  dish  with 

Creamy  Sauce 

Boil  one  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup 
of  water,  as  in  making  boiled  frosting, 
then  pour  in  a  fine  stream  on  the  white 
of  one  egg,  beating  constantly  mean- 
while. Beat  occasionally  until  cold, 
then  fold  in  one  cup  of  cream  beaten 
very  light  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  This  may  be  made  with  un- 
beaten cream  and  served  hot. 


y|ig^  .««i*JI 


■■■■.:■;..■;,■:;!,;.!■■ 


i%ji'i-:iS?iii.*?!>!;i-i- 


:JiiH:::iE::l::!i:: 


-■;i."li«|ii|«"i*i->|> 


The  Home  Nurse,  By  Dr.  E.  B. 
LowRY.  Cloth,  Price  $1.00,  Chicago: 
Forbes  &  Co. 

Dr.  E.  B.  Lowry,  the  popular  writer 
on  health  topics,  has  brought  out  an- 
other very  useful  book,  entitled,  "The 
Home  Ntu^e".  It  gives  helpful  dir- 
ections for  the  care  of  the  sick  in  the 
home  and  tells  how  to  co-operate  with 
the  physician  in  providing  for  the  com- 
fort and  cure  of  invalids.  Full  di- 
rections for  first  aid  to  the  injtired  are 
also  given.  Technical  terms  are  avoided 
and  a  complete  index  makes  it  possible 
to  refer  quickly  to  the  desired  informa- 
tion. 

The  writer  is  an  authority  on  nursing 
and  lectures  on  the  subject  in  one  of  the 
leading  medical  colleges.  The  instruc- 
tions may  therefore  be  depended  upon 
as  conforming  with  the  best  medical 
knowledge  and  practice.  Physicians 
will  welcome  the  circulation  of  this 
excellent  book;  for  it  will  facilitate  their 
efforts,  it  is  a  veritable  doctor's  assistant. 

It  is  to  help  the  home  nurse  that  the 
book  has  been  prepared.  It  explains 
to  the  untrained  ntu*se  how  to  aid  the 
physician  by  carrjdng  out  his  directions 
intelligently  A  book  of  this  character 
is  very  useful  in  the  home  for  directions 
and  guidance  in  times  of  need. 

Foods  and  Household  Management,  By 

Helen  Kinne  and  Anna  M.  Coolby* 

Cloth,    Price    $1.10.      New    York: 

The  MacMillan  Company. 

The    voltune    treats    specifically    of 

foods,  their  production,  sanitation,  cost, 

nutritive  value,  preparation  and  serving. 

These  topics  being  closely  interwoven 

with  the  practical  aspect  of   household 

management  and  they  are  followed  by 


a  study  of  the  household  budget  and 
accounts,  methods  of  buying,  house- 
cleaning,  and  latmdering.  It  includes 
about  one  hundred  and  sixty  carefully 
selected  and  tested  recipes,  together 
with  a  larger  niunber  of  cooking  exercises 
of  more  experimental  nature  designed 
to  develop  in  initiative  and  resourceful- 
ness. It  is  intended  for  use  in  the 
course  in  household  arts  in  high  and 
normal  schools,  whether  the  work  be 
vocational  or  general  in  its  aim." 

Thus  it  will  appear  this  volume 
is  quite  the  most  extensive,  elaborate, 
and  scientific  text -book  of  household 
arts  yet  published.  With  this  text- 
book and  a  skillful  teacher  for  guidance, 
classes  in  domestic  science  may  be 
led  on  safe  and  sure  grotmd  to  the 
latest  and  best  attainments  in  the 
study  of  Household  Arts. 

The   Oriental    Cook    Book,   By    A.    H. 

Keolbian.   Cloth,  Price  $1.25  net. 

New  York:  Sully  &  Kleinteich. 

Here   is   a  collection  of   wholesome, 

dainty,  and  economical  dishes  of  the 

Orient.    The    author   claims    to    have 

evolved  a  book  which  gives  the    most 


REFRIGERATORS-ICE  BOXES 

and  all  places  where  meats  and  fbodf 

are  kept  should  be  regulariy  disinfectod 

and  purified  by  using 

PlBttk  rblorides. 

IheOdtuiessDiainfb&tMiaL 

Destroys  germs  and  foul  odors,  does  not 
permeate  the  food. 

Safm,  Efficimni  and  EeonomeaL  SoU  Evmtywhvm 


HENRY  B.   PLATT 
42  Cllfr  8tr««t,  New  York  City,  N. 


Y. 


718 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


li 


\     < 


Buy  advertised  goods  —  do  not  accept  aubstitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


representative,  meritorious  and  easily  ad- 
optable  methods  of  food  preparation 
that  are  known,  and  practiced  all  over 
the  Orient  by  various  nationahties.  * 
His  theory  of  cooking  is  not  uninter- 
esting. 

All  human  beings  are  naturally  gifted 
■with  more  or  less  ability,  when  occasion 
requires,  to  prepare  food  for  themselves. 
The  true  art  of  Cookery,  however,  is 
not  the  possession  of  many,  especially 
when  it  is  exercised  for  the  highest  good 
and  pleasure  of  others.  This  truly 
specialized  and  praiseworthy  function 
demands  good  judgment,  an  inherent 
sense  of  fitness  and  proportion  in  the 
choice  and  blending  of  food  ingredients, 
reliable  guidance,  and  after  that  practice 
and  ever  more  practice. 

But  cookery  should  not  be  made 
a  difficult  task  by  minute  descriptions 
of  compositions  and  combinations  —  as 
is  true  of  many  cook  books  —  in  such 
a  way  as  to  cause  the  average  house-  , 


Buy  advertised  Goods  - 


keeper  bewilderment  or  discour^ement. 
Of  course,  excellent  results  in  the  art 
of  cookery  require  a  general  knowledge 
of  and  experience  in  the  art,  on  the 
part  of  the  cook,  yet,  it  should  also 
be  left  with  her  to  make  a  fair  attempt 
at  it,  and  use  her  own  judgment,  con- 
siderably, regarding  preparation  and 
results.  Cookery  is  neither  practical  or 
successful  when  it  is  too  scientific, 
because  such  success  is  largely  depend- 
ent on  the  taste  of  the  cook  and  those 
for  whose  enjoyment  it  is  prepared, 

CiviliEation  has  taught  human  beings 
to  be  careful  in  their  selection  of  food- 
stuffs, and  again,  it  has  taught  them, 
on  the  whole,  to  prepare  the  food  in  a 
way  to  make  it  more  nourishir^  and 
palatable.  Thus,  the  common  reasons 
for  cooking  are  already  known  to  every 
person,  which  are,   namely: 

To  do  away  with  the  hurtful  sub- 
stances in  foodstuffs,  and  to  cause 
destruction  to  microbes  and  other  for- 
eign matter  in  flesh  and  in  vegetables. 

To  assist  mastication  and  hasten 
digestion  of  food  through  proper  com- 
binations of  variouseatables  ;and,  finally, 

To  use  or  serve  them  in  the  best 
style,  suited  to  the  customs  and  con- 
ceptions of  civilized  people. 

Oriental  Cookery,  like  all  else  Oriental, 
is  not  based  on  strict  science,  but  on 
natural  and  happy  combinations  of 
food  ingredients  and  flavors  which  many, 
many  years'  experience  on  the  part 
of  different  peoples  has  taught  them.  It 
is  naturally  harmoniously  and  easily 
done,  and  is  dependent  for  its  successful 
result  on  good,  and  wholesome  ideas 
in  general  cooking,  and  anyone  with  a 
little  courage  can  do  it,  too,  without 
minutely  following  the  given  guide  in 
recipes. 

Oriental  cookery  is  valued  not  only 
because  of  its  economy,  because  one 
can  get  the  most  out  of  the  least  mat- 
erial used  in  the  preparations  of  a  food, 
but  it  is  also  recognized  and  esteemed 
for  its  general  body-building  and  nour- 
ishing character,  and  although  it  is 
solid  and  substantial,  it  is  often  dainty 

lo  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Spongt  Pinrapplt  Padding 

AU  These  Dishes  Were  Made  With 

HawaiianPineapp 

We  have  a  book  o(  over  1 00  orimnal  tedpe^  "  How  We  ^ 
Serve  Hawaiian  Pineapple,'  wikien  by  the  (trowing  1 
15  leading  culinuy  expert*:  1 

PuA  ■•nta  Fu_e  JmfUm  GiHkr  kmt  W.  KwTbn  \ 

■l>r«H«lul  Ckridiii  TirkiH  Hinick      HiriiPukx  ^ 


Ait*  GnttMl  Cik  Lfc>  Drw™  I 

lbii~K>iij>ll>a  S4nk r~nn Sturt  nnUi  Tnkva ¥■■  4* WaNr 

The  big  goldcD,  luidoiu  pineapple  Uom  Hawaii  it  the  moil 
dehghtful  of  huita  jiut  as  it  comei  from  the  can,  iliced,  ciushed 
or  gcated.  Because  of  its  pronounced  and  delicious  flavor, 
Hawaiian  Pineapple  it  the  best  batii  (or  made  dishei  with  fruiL 
Get  it  at  your  grocen.     It  it  picked  ripe  and  canned  right 


Miss  Farmer's  School  of  Cookery 

30  HUNTINGTON  AVENUE,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


TWELFTH  SUMMER  COURSE 

FROM  JULY  9  TO  AUGUST  14.  1914 


Arranged  to  meet  the  needs  of  teachers  of  cookery,  dietitians,  matrons 
oF  institutions  and  housekeepers. 

Lesson*  in  marketing,  advanced  cookery,  sick  loom  codceiy  and 
waitress*  wodc,  by  members  of  the  schoors  staff. 

Lectures  on  practical  dietetics,  iniant  and  chiH  feeding  and  feeding 
in  institutions,  by  members  of  the  Harvard  Medical  School  staff. 

TERMS  I  948       -       PROSPECTUS  ON  APPUCATION 

FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 

Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  sutMtitutea 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not.accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


The  New 


HESM^ 


Can  be  "Made  in  a  Jifiy" 

With  the  aid  of  fruit,  berries,  whipped 
cream,  etc.,  the  practical  housewife  can 
serve  Nesnah  in  an  endless  varieOr  of 
dain^  and  attractive  forms. 


You  simply  dissolve  it  In  milk  or  cream, 
let  stand  a  few  moments,  and  you  have, 
ready  to  serve,  a  most  exquisite  dessert. 

It  is  the  one  lutf,  Mkim  fNd-diiMrt. 
Not  to  be  confounded  with  gelatine  prep- 
arations. 

NINE  FLAVORS 


VANILU 

CaOCOLATB 

OUnOE 


riSTACBIO 

RAsrauuiT 

HAriB 


10c  < 


1  Pickigi 

At  AUGroMn 

Sample  wat  free 
-— full-«Be  package 
on  receipt  of  10 
Cents.  State  chcHce 
of  flavor, 

Ptopmrtd  by 

Km  JhM  Folks' 

»M  aw>7 

UTTLB  PAUa 


for  the  house,  and  be  benefited  by  the 
cutting. 

With  annuals,  which  are  raised  from 
seed,  as  with  perenials,  it  is  wise  to- 
choose  a  few  old-fashioned,  hardy  var- 
ieties which  grow  readily  and  flower 
profusely.  Backyard  conditions  are  not 
favorable  to  rare  or  exotic  plants. 
Only  every-day  things  will  give  results 
which  make  such  gardening  worth  while. 

Seeds  of  annuals  may  be  planted 
in  the  open  ground  as  early  in  the  spring 
as  the  weather  is  settled  and  the  earth 
warmed  by  the  sun.  They  must  not 
be  sown  when  the  ground  is  saturated 
with  moisture,  or  they  will  rot  instead 
of  germinating;  and  if  they  are  sown 
in  a  dry  time,  the  earth  must  be  kept 
reasonably  damp  by  watering,  so  that 
the  tender  rootlets  of  the  new  plants 
will  not  perish  of  drought.  Proper 
-directions  for  sowing  are  printed  on 
the  seed  packets,  but  they  do  not 
insist  as  strongly  as  they  should  on 
the  need  for  regular  watering,  both 
before  and  after  germination.  Of  course, 
seedlings  must  not  be  continually  flooded 
—  the  state  of  the  soil  must  be  the  guide; 
and  nothing  must  be  watered  when 
the  sun  is  shining  on  it,  as  sunshine 
bakes  wet  foil  into  a  crust,  and  the 
earth  about  plants  should  always  be 
broken  and  friable. 

Choose  a  sunny,  protected  comer 
for  the  seeds,  and,  if  the  ground  has 
been  dug  the  previous  fall,  it  should 
be  spaded  and  raked  again  before  either 
seeds  or  plants  are  placed  in  it.  This 
second  digging  is  a  trifle  compared 
with  the  first  breaking  of  ground  whidi 
has  never  been  cultivated.  The  more 
earth  is  stirred  and  pulverized,  how- 
ever, the  more  productive  it  will  be, 
and  the  better  wiH  be  the  results  ob- 
tained. The  seeds  may  be  sown  in 
rows,  each  row  being  marked  by  a 
stick  bearing  a  number.  Then  a  memo- 
randum should  be  kept  of  the  different 
varieties  planted,  with  the  number  of 
the  row  placed  opposite  the  name 
of  the  variety.  In  this  was  a  beginner 
who  cannot  recognize  difierent  seed- 
lings at  sight,  will  be  able  to  identify 


Buy  advenbed  Gooda  —  do  not  accept  lubatitutei 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Spice  Develops  the 
Flavor  of  Fruits 


„.  'e  a  (ubtle  Bi    ..  . 

ft  tflniptJEiiKiidiiDiuaBldiih. 

bl  4iid  putHl  ebuUUH  I 


iBfllik  nrsMH  <1><7  u*  tot 


a 


SUcbaw  a  Fsor'a  rroAicU  an:  Hortud,  rtnm, 
aiiatnSiria'rnm.Olnu.ltKt.rimtmU.iin.aKTerT.ltnSnm, 


STICKNEY  &  POOR  SPICE  CO. 

184  SUte  St,  BosBjn 


JLl 


TBE   NATIONAL 
MUSTABD    POT 


4_# 


Keeps  After  Opening 


FROM  the  gathering,aelect- 
ing  and  thoroughly  wash- 
ing of  the  red-ripe  tomatoes 
— the  slight  cooking  so  that 
the  true  tomato  taste  is  re- 
tained, accentuated  by  addi- 
tion of  pure,  delicate  spices 
— to  the  filling,  corking  and 
capping  of  the  sterilized  bot- 
tles, every  step  taken  is  with 
extreme  care  and  under  the 
strict  surveillance  of  experts. 
All  this  tends  towards  making 

BLUE  LABEL  KETCHUP 

Delicion*  —  Appctmas  —  S»tiif]riBg 

Contaiiu  only  thoae  ingndiaitM 

Recognized  and  Eadoned 

iytheU.S.Covenmaa 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  pot  accept  substitut 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


them  when  they  appear.  Of  course 
they  will  come  up  too  close  t4^ether, 
but  they  should  not  be  thinned  at  once, 
as  many  will  die  of  their  own  accord. 
Of  what  remain,  the  least  vigorous 
specimens  in  a  crowd  should  be  talcen 
out  to  leave  room  for  the  stronger 
ones  to  develop. 

After  the  seedlings  have  two  or  three 
pairs  of  leaves,  they  should  be  taken 
up  and  separated  carefully,  disturbing 
and  exposing  the  roots  as  little  as 
possible,  and  planted  in  the  border 
where  they  are  intended  to  remain. 
As  the  aim  is  not  to  raise  speciment 
plants,  but  to  secure  a  mass  of  color, 
seven  or  eight  of  the  same  kind  should 
be  planted  near  together  in  a  row  or 
group,  and  care  should  be  taken  that 
groups  of  varieties  blooming  at  differ- 
ent times  should  be  alternated,  so  that 
no  part  of  the  border  will  at  any  time 
be  empty  of  flowers. 

Of  all  annuals,  the  Nasturtitim  is 
the  most  cheerful  and  constant  bloomer, 
beginning  in  June  and  continuing  until 
killed  by  frost.  There  are  tall  varieties 
to  train  against  the  wall,  and  dwaris 
which  form  a  little  bush.  They  must 
have  sunshine,  but  ask  nothing  else 
except  water.  Petunias  are  another 
standby  —  not  the  large-flowering  sorts, 
which  are  not  profuse  bloomers,  but 
the  bedding  kinds,  which  cover  them- 
selves with  color.  Caliopsis,  annual  Lark- 
spurs, both  tall  and  dwarf.  Calendula, 
French  and  African  Marigolds,  Cali- 
fornia Poppy,  annual  garden  Poppy, 
Candytuft  and  Sweet  Sultan  have  all 
proved  successful  in  a  subsoil  backyard. 
This  may  seem  a  limited  list,  but  it 
will  yield  beauty  from  spring  to 
autumn  and  repay  the  gardener  a  thou- 
sandfold. 


A  Sympathetic  Dog 

The  fare  at  a  certain  boarding- 
house  was  very  poor.  A  boarder  who 
had  been  there  for  some  time,  because 
he  could  not  get  away,  was  standing 
in  the  hall  when  the  landlord  rang 
the    dinner-bell.      Whereupon    an    old 


Buy  advertised  Good*  —  do  not  accept  subttitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


A  Perfect  Knife  for  Grape  rruil  ™\5S'Sll„°a«^^«IS'" 

The  blada  of  thla  knife  U  inede  from  the  fineit  cntleij  ateel,  tlndy  tempered,  cnrred  Jnat  to  tka 
right  angle  u>d  ground  to  a  very  keen  edge,  will  remore  the  center,  oat  cleenlf  and  qnldUy  Maud 
tin  edge  and  dinde  the  fruit  into  •omenta  read;  for  eating. 

Tb«  faature  of  tbebUde  istharoancl  «Dd  which  pnrBDt*  cattlnit  tlirau«h  the  mtar  ikln.     A  crap*  fndt  koUe 
la  ■  UMcnlb  Hcrmpe  rniit  are  crowioc  M  rkpldl;  In  popnUritr  M  a  treakfait  fiuit. 
Far  Salt  »r  all  itoUrt.    Prbi  SO  will  HOk    Ifmt  fa 
ne^at  pria   a  knUtwia  it  itiil  U>  at  oMrttt  fOM 

THE  EMPIRE  KNIFE  CO.  /.  /.  .".  Wlnsted,  CoiM. 


*!iUufUt9ika 

rutot  cl«».t  mot  MaKoe  Every  Woman  Happy         Sent  Only  DIw»rt 

2155? tSSSSiSIS        Cu.  d™  TOUT  a«.  «»U™«T  bill.;  b.«  b.'SS  tuftv  From  Faotory 

ponlble  lo  boy  —  II  ■  (oodirllh  hilt  tbowsrk.    One  trUl  coBvliica eTery houHwIfi.    I 

tti Pile* uvlu      Mt  EitnduS-computioaitCaoluiOnlfitof "We>T«ET"Aluml.    1 

naw    Bosk  ■howl  Dnm  CaoUnt  UlcniUi.     Computmcnti  uul covan  linsd vUh 

l^,  fuU  t«M  photo-  pun  ilumlBom. 

e)i^D°'^d';^  ^faJittt    Fireleu  Cooker 

•ddreu  lodij  uid  ^'VJf— _>  so  Dw**  Frw  TrW 

,..  *Ma     .  tguvuUe  to  Hit  yoa  or  tab  the  cooker  buk.  Rout 

Oet      1  rilS    meaui  perlKI  brown.    Duke*  akM.  plM.  *nPl*J 


n     1l      IT     houti  10  minuui.     Write  lodi;  tor  my  Btw  Book  ud  ^K 
*V  *lr   i-*    dl«ctfKtorr  price.  H 


■    Dirt.  17a 


Buy  advenued  L>ooda  — 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


'   teted.     Good 


Start  and  End 
vrith  a  Surprise 

Tomato  Tapioca   Soup   ' 

— e»er  tuted  it?     Ii'i 

eu;  to  make,  ind  thr 

ben   tomato  toup  ^ou 

cooiu  know  tliur;Tipi6ci  improrea  mr  loup, 

but  the  loMg!  wMking  required  hj  pearl  lapioc* 

ii.MS^miidi  trouble. 

Minute 
Tapigea 

...-■^^  HlBht  H»  ~i  "  I 
Just  aM  two  tablcipoodfiilt  (»■■'*  y*  ^  ■N9~ 
Aa  a  ^toly  dBwat^li&irte  Ttypca  <^Mn«» jrth 
■m  apd  nujrollwr  aood  Ihinca.    ISto 


Om,  pmnH.  ftw 


"Mtairtt/ir  KW' 


I  dog  that  was  lying  outside  on  a  nig 
I  commenced  to  howl  moumftilly. 

The  boarder  watched  him  a  little 
'  while,  and  then  said: 

"What  on  earth  are  you  howling 
for?    You  don't  have  to  eat  it!" 


TW  BMMSMnl 


IhiininiUlloinpfniur.Jvmtli  Ch«f.  ' 

rf'JJir'*''  '"'  *  ^"  Himplt  B(iltl«,  irllh  N«w  II 
Kltehn  BoaqDct  la  toTit  bf  ■netntrta^wban. 

THE  PAUSADE  MFC.  CO. 


Hygienic  Crumbles 

MISS  CLEE  who  is  an  ardent 
theorist  in  the  matter  of  hygienic 
living,  concluded  her  somewhat  tedious 
remarks  by  descending  from  generali- 
zations to  concrete  instances,  as  she 
nibbled  at  a  cracker. 

"You  say,"  she  declared,  with  calm 
and  patronizing  pity  in  her  tones, 
"you  say  that  pepper  and  other  condi- 
ments are  not  injurious  if  used  in 
moderation.  My  friend,  that  is  a 
ipistake.  The  lining  of  the  stomach, 
as  you  know,  is  composed  of  a  delicate 
membrane  —  almost  exactly  like  the 
lining  of  the  eye.  Now,  candidly, 
would  you  put  pepper  or  mustard 
into  your  eye?  You  would  not.  And 
why?  Because  it  would  cause  indes- 
cribable suffering.  And  so,  although 
you  may  not  be  aware  of  the  fact, 
the  condiments  that  you  take  into 
your  stomach  cause  inflammation  and 
suffering,  which  you  call  indigestion. 
Do  I  make  my  point  clear?" 

Fanner  Grant  moved  uneasily  in 
his  chair;  he  had  enjoyed  the  corned- 
beef  dinner,  and  the  only  drawback 
to  his  enjoyment  had  been  the  sight 
of  his  guest  nibbling  crackers  in  pre- 
ference to  his  own  more  substantial 
meal. 

"I  s'pose  you've  got  the  rights  of 
the  case,"  he  admitted,  grudgingly. 
"But  I  just  couldn't  stand  it  to  live- 
on  them  hard-backed,  wafer  things 
that  ain't  got  a  speck  of  taste  to  'em." 

"Try  one,"  tu^ed  the  advocate  of 
the  simple  life. 

Farmer  Grant  took  the  offered  edible 
gingerly ;  then  a  sudden  thought  smote 
him. 

"Turn  about  is  fair  play,"  he  said. 
bluntly.  "I'll  give  in  that  pepper 
and    mustard   and    vinegar   and   sicb- 


Buy  advertised  Good*  —  do  not  accept  aubatltutea 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


A  Woman 
Can't  Help 

wanting  a  Plain  Cabinet  Glenwood,  it  is  so  Smooth  and 
E^aay  to  clean.     No  filigree  or  fusBv  omtunentatioii, 
juat  the  natural  black  iron  finish— "The  MIsHion  Idea 
applied  to  a  range.    A  room  saver  too — like  the  upright 
piano.      Every  essential  refined  and  improved  upon. 

The  Broad,  Square  Oven 

with  perfectly  straight  Bides  is  very  roomy.     The 
Glenwood  oven  heat  Indicator,  Improved  bakine  damp* 
er.  Sectional  top,  Revolving  grate  and  Roller  Dearing 
CmI,  Wood  aad  Gu  Kaago.  '"^'^'^  ""  ^^''  """"^^  of  special  mention. 

'^^^^•^S^^^^i^Z'Ss^  The  Glenwood  Gas  Hange 

'"*   "      °  "~"  attachment,  consisting  of  Oven,    Broiler  and   Four 

burner  top,  ia  made  to  bolt  neatly  to  the  end  of  the  Plain  Cabinet  Glenwood  coal  range.     It 
mattets  not  whether  your  kitchen  is  large  or  small— there's  a  Plain  Glenwood  made  to  fit  it 

Qenwood  Ran^s 

Wiitatar&MlnokMnaf  the  FWnCkUiirtGlni wood  to  Wtb  store  Col,  Ikanton.!!^^^^^ 


If  inlwHtad  Ib  ■  Hpuvta  Gu  RsBg*  Hk  tor  boDklat  77. 


Lessons  in  Elementary  Cooking 

By  MARY  CHANDLER  JONES 

TBBcb«r  of  Caokary  la  (h*  rnblle  Scfasola  ol  BnoUla*.  ■■■••. 

Cloth.    272  Pages,   Illustrated,    $1.00  neL        Postage,    8   cents 

f^ART  of  this  book  appeared  leriiJIy  in  thit  magazine  and  met  with  tuch  favot  a*  to  wananl 
4      its  publication  in  book  form.    The  chi^en  thai  were  in  the  magazine  have  been  lewritten 
and  eolaiged,  and  about  at  many  nuxe  entirely  new  chaptert  (37  chapter*  in  all)  added, 
together  with  tome  dozen  or  more  iUluitrations. 

i  his  OOOK  it  for  the  ute  of  thote  teaching  Cooking  in  the  Elementary  Schools, 
and  we  beEeve  such  teachert  will  derive  more  help  from  thit  book  than  from  any  other  yet 
published. 

Xllis    Book  has  been  adopted  u  a  text  book  by  many  High  SchocJi. 
This    Book  is  uied  u  a  text  book  in  several  State  Nonnal  Schoob. 

Every  Cookiiig  Teacher  needs  this  book 
Any  School  unng  a  text  book  will  do  well  to  examine  this  <me 

ADDRESS    ALL    ORDERS 

THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO,    Boston,  Maw. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  sutMtitutea 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


ALEXANDERS 

DOVE  BRAND 

NEW  ORLEANS 

MOLASSES 


VY/E  have  issued  an  eight 
'^  page  premium  list,  show- 
ing 40  premiums  which  we 
offer  to  present  subscribers  for 
securing  and  sending  us  new 
subscriptions. 

Jl  copy  Tplll  be  lent  to  any/  aub- 
KTibertm  receipt  of  fioalal  nquett. 

The  Boston  Cooking 
School  Magazine  Co. 


like  are  all  bad  for  the  stomach,  and 
I'll  quit  eating  of  'em  ef  I  find  they 
really  do  hurt  the  eye.  And  I'll  ay 
'em  on  my  eye  —  ef  you'll  try  tli 
effect  first  on  your  eye  of  cnimblin' 
this  'ere  cracker  up  and  rubbin'  it  round 
on  that  delicate  linin,  that  you  spoke 
of.  Ef  the  hy-ginic  crumbles  don't 
hurt  your  eye,  why,  III  know  they'll 
be  good  for  my  stomach;  and  if  they 
do  irritate  and  inflame  that  delicate 
organ,  why,  then  I'll  know  hy-ginic 
crumbles  ain't  good,  and  111  stick 
to  un-hy-ginic  eatin',  which  I  swan 
to  man  I  kin  enjoy," 

Parmer  Grant  is  still  eating  unhy- 
gienic food,  partly,  no  doubt,  because 
Miss  Clee  declined  to  rub  "uhyfginic 
crumbles"  in  her  eyes. 


LITTLE  Prince  Henry,  aged  13, 
is  the  practical  joker  of  tlie 
British  royal  family.  Here  is  his  latest. 
His  sister,  Princess  Mary,  wrote  him 
the  other  day  while  he  was  visiting  in 
Cornwall,  asking  him  to  send  her  some 
of  the  flowers  which  according  to  the 
newspapers  were  blooming  in  profusion 
in  the  "English  Riviera."  "You  know 
how  fond  I  am  of  early  spring  flowers," 
she  wrote.  Next  day  there  arrived 
at  Buckingham  palace  a  beautifnl 
basket  addressed  to  Princess  Mary. 
The  writing  was  that  of  Prince  Henry. 
When  the  princess  opened  the  basket 
she  found,  tastefully  tied  up  with 
heliotrope  ribbon,  a  hugh  bunch  d 
—  cauliflower. 


Buy  advertiaed  Good*  —  do  not  accept  MibMitute* 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


All  the  delicious  flavor  and 
nutiiment  of  luscious  com 
without  the  indigestible  hulls 


ilk  of  young,  green  corn 

ivor,  Rt  ill  juoCTt.     This  juic* 

■ny  indigntible  hulli,  ii  txttled 

cencnted  to  make  Kotnle* — Hke 

uriahing  ewence. 

jrou  tlie  lecipe  for  a  defidoui 

Kornitt  Boup.    One  can  of 

Keraki  serveaten  liberally— 

or  twenty  if  cups  ate  used. 

Grocers  Bell   Koralel  at   25c. 

It  Tonr  crocer  cmuDot  *apV*TX?Si: 

■CDd  m  bis  nami  and  addnM  witb 


Baoklat.'fT' 


I  ■liod  can  by  Farc^  Fact. 


boBdSfwllb  modem  conrenlwic".  PWrata* 
SBolOTillAt  DBPAKTIIEWT      J' 

I— J  J^TMMW^M'OlrflltoAllllllIlM 


I  ESSONS  IN  COOKING  £rJ!lC3: 

aSnit,  an^  Arte  «.  >u    Bo»a  la  vutninnfl'iUuntM,  Mnr* 
&l^;;uaiSr(«i>a*n«>T.lt«iri*(i>dwi^i4  »oDUua(I  &*. 


DOHUTIC  SCtBHCt  TUCBEH  WAffTtD 


MocKr/^r  TEACHERS 

/J(?£/VCy    E.MPIRL   BID  G,  Di^wP  (ii;o 


TAKE  YOCH  CHOICE  I 

ELECTRO 
SILICOH 


TUtfimoM 

y^^asv 

SILVER  FOUSH 

l^^^^l 

u  Mw  p«t  up  in 

^^g^gm 

twofonas 

l^^^g^ 

EITHER 

^•lajjji?' 

or 

rOWDEK 

CREAM 

Aty  i»  *l»  **"  '•""  y^  pnfvr. 

Always  the  same  Electro  SOieon  that 
£or  nearly  a  half  Century  has  satisfied  care- 
ful housewives  everywhere  as  the  perfect 
Silver  Polish.  Equally  effective  for  Alum- 
inum, Nickel,  Glass,  and  all  fine  metals. 
Send  address  for  .,.„,_ 

FREE    SAMPLE 

TlieEl«t«,SiUconCo..walirStte«tNnr  York. 
At  Orocara  and  Dra^lal* 


Batter  bt«ad  and  taor*  of  h— that 
ua  good  modem  idowl 

Fleischmann's  Yeast 


belps  it  to  come  true.    It 

easjr  to  make  good  bread.    Ournew 

Recipe  Book  tell*  how. 


The  Fleiscfamann  Company 

7«  WaaUiltaa  Stnal  Knr  Tark  Citr 


Buy  advutiaed  Gooda  - 


o  not  accept  nibatitutea 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


A  New  Cook  Book  by  Mrs.  Hill 

The  American  Cook  Book 

By  MRS.  JANET  McKENZIE  HILL 

EMw  Tbt  IhIw  CmUu-ScLmI  HuuIh 


titumtrmted  Olotb,  St.OO  actt  by  mail,  ft.IO 


THIS  bode  is  foi  everyday  lue.     For  the  moat  part  the  recqjes  are  niiq)le 
and  concue,  and  just  such  as  will  be  of  assistance  in  preparing  the  reg- 
ular family  meals,  but  scattered  through  the  book  are  a  few  recipes  for 
choice  dishes  that  will  grace  any  feast     Each  recipe  has  been  tried  and  tried 
again,  and  is  absolutely  right     The  directions  are  complete  and  easity  (oUowed. 
Using  this  book  you  are  sure  of  success  every  time. 

Wm  win  tmnd  tha  Amariean  Cook  Book,  pomtptad  apoa  rocnpt  of  fl.lO, 
or  to  any  pmmt  aabtcnbar  at  a  ftrmman  for  amjing  two  (2)  now  safr- 
teriptiotu  at  $1.00  aaek. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO. 


Summer  School  of  Cookery 

AND  VACATION  OUTING  COMBINED 


lUQier  Ouae*  id  Cookery  at  TOPO  PINO,"  Soutb  Cbatbam  Now  Hamiuhire 
WILL  OPEN  lULY  9.  FOR  TBB  ELEVCNTB  SEASON 

intam  me  Royal ;  Flih  CIiodi  .Siocf  Tartare.   Baninc  ChicHcnatorOBlaDtirin'  Aipicjcllt. 

oom  Sauce :  Artichnlifi  Hnitnini.  Bangoule     Beet  tupa  and  En  telad.   Lodr  Kn*a  RoUi. 

pie  sod  Nut  SuDdse  :  Tendei  Spouse  Ctke, 

Do7aDWi9litnleiirnBomthinrofmarketiDC.ofroadTBluea.aad  of  eookinc  for  from  1  toMp«ot»ler    In  dcDrastn 

lODlectare*.  inctua  work,  orat  Ihehome  table,  do  you  wiah  to  be  able  toprcKni  nev  diatiea  vriihoutfenrof  fwlart.ar 

o  judfewith  accuracy  oi  to  Ibe  lalue  of  anr  new  recipe?     Come  to  South  Cbatham  and  Jeam  bow  to  do  thew  thinn  in 

Far  clrcalar  of  terniM  *ad  other  lafornuttloa,  apply  la  peraou  or  hy  letter  L  , 

The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine  Co. 

Buy  advertised  Goodi  —  do  not  accept  •ubttitute* 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Domestic  Science 

Home- Study  Courses 

Food,  he*lth,  homekeeping,  rlothing,  chlldreo. 
For  homemkken,  t^ichen  uid  tor 
well-p«id  poiltioni. 
■THE  PROFESSION  OF  HOME-MAKING."  100 
Mge  hMidbook,  FREE.  Balletiiui  *'Fub  Hamb 
Oooraa,"  10  cents,  "Food  Valom,"  10  ccotf. 
"TbbUmo-Datb  Homb,"  IdccDta. 

UL  SCHOOL  OF  HOIE  ECnOHICS.  603  W.  8M  SL,GIIICIN 


MAGIC  COVER 

IhCic  CoTcr  for  Putir  Board  and  RolUnf  Pio:  ctHmlui 
mated  aiid  hnicalc;  ncammeiiclid  br  leadlDf  tCKchan 
mifclnc.   Br  mail,  hoc. 

B.   F.  MACY 

hmtht  ttf.L  mun  *  n.,  Ma  IMatt  lIMn  Itn  la  Im  li«l> 
4IO  BojrUtoa  Str««l,  Bostttn,  lUaa. 


When  Friends  Drop  In 

When  you  have  a  little  card  party  or  a  gather- 
ing of  friends  for  any  social  purpose  at  your  hom« 


take  a  package  of 


soiuething  very  nice, 


jELL-0 

and  make  thia  delightful  dish,  which  we  c 
Macaroon  Velvet  Jell-O. 


The  little  recipe  book  in 
each  Jell-O  package  is  full  of 
recipes  from  which  selection 
may  1>e  niade  for  any  occa- 

The  Jell-O  flavors  are  all 

pure  fruit  &a.\ors.   There  are 

seven  of  them :   Strawberry, 

Raspberry.    Lemon.  Orange, 

Chtrry,  Peach.  Chocolate. 

10  cents  at  all  grocers'. 

THE   GENESEE  PURE  FOOD 

CO..  I.e  Roy.  N.  Y..  and 

Bfldsebura,  Can. 


,  .uvertised  Goods  —do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


PREMIUMS 

Experience   has  shown  that  the  most  satisfactory  way  to 

enlorse  the  subscription  list  of  The  Boston  Cookinft  School  Hagaxine  is  tiirooch  ha 

present  Bubscribers,  who,  personally,  can  vouch  for  the  value  of  the  publication. 

To  make  it  an  object  for  subscribers  to  secure  new  subscribers,  we  oOtr  the  fial- 

iowing  premiums: 

CONDITIONS  :       Prmiliuiu  uo  Dot  ^-m  wUk  •  mibacriptlan  or  An- «  renawal,  bitt  ooljr  to 
^—-  futamttt  snbacriben,  for  •ecoring  and  aauliaK  to  ua  nmw  yvulT  anbwato- 

tioiM  at  (l-OO  eacli.     The  umiiber  of  new  lubaeriptiaDa  required  to  tecaro  each  preminin  la  Ll^l^^y 
Mated  b«low  the  deaciiption  of  the  premium, 

Traiuponation  »  or  ie  not  paid  aa  atated. 
Oaw  P>»mI»««  •¥«  atamdud  goodi.  Inn  nah  ■■  iira  hIJ  at  ifaa  halMr  atsrH.  ara  wall  worth  tha  ptt^m, 
hara  tflna  unlnrMl  utli&atlaa. 


SOMETHING  NEW 


At  amy  MKdal  Ametioo  here  in  tiw  CMt  tfi7 
cake*  ua  Mrred,  bskvd  tn  tin*  like  tboM  aliowa 
in  Um  tlltuttaUoii.  Theee  tins  ate  fanportedt 
beanUAill/  made  ftom  Tery  heaTj  Un,  and  ate 
firtt-clut.  A-No.  I  in  erery  respect. 

Here  is  one  Oood  Recipe  to  Try. 
POUND  CAKE  >OR  LITTLB  TDIB. 


K  cap  butter 

}i  cupiittai 

SeggyoS. 

}i  tableitpoonAil  bivodf 


V  cap  flont 
)i  teaapoonftil  baldag 
powder  (lerel) 
..  _  .     ,     X  tMipoonftilinaoe 
or  milk  9  egg  whites 

Pat  a  Uttle  of  the  mixtore  in  the  center  of  each 
tint  theheat  of  theoren  willcaoioitto  ran  and 
fill  the  tina.  The  radpe  makee  about  tistv  Utile 
cakee.  Spread  coofectioner'a  icing  on  flu  top 
or  leare  plain. 
One  of  OieH  Una,  baUmj*  IS  little  cake*  (fUte  which  design  ran  «Ui),  sent,  portptid.  foe  two 
(2)  new  lubacriptloD*.     (Price  $1.23.) 


A  SET  OF  THREE   (3)  STEEL  DRAWN  MOULDS 

For  Jellies.  Pnddlngs,  Custards, 
etc..  etc. 

Are  *o  ahaped  that  the  contents  rcadllf  comet 

out  in  perfect  cooditioD. 
These  mould,  ordinarily  sell  for  85c.  pint  site, 
40c.  pint  and  a  half,  and  60c.  for  quart  use. 
We  have  combined  the  three  bIecs  into  a  set,  and 
will  send  a  set  (either  oral  or  round  but  not 
aaaorted  shapes),  prepaid,  as  premium  for  one 
(1)  new  subscription.     Cash  price  Uc  prepaid. 


THE  BOSTON   COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE,  BOSTON.  MASS. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  iubstitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 

PREMIUMS 

SnVER-CLEAN  PAN 

A.  device  for  remoTing  tamlsli  from  artidM  made  of 

Eld  or  lilTer,  lolld  or  pUt«d,  br  what  ta  kmown  aa  an 
ectrolvtlc  or  GslTulc  acUao.  wbldi  la  bronght  about  bj 
pUdag  In  the  SllTer-Clean  Pan.  Watmr,  and  adding  for 
ermy  qnait  one  teaapoooftal  of  common  Baking  Sotia  and 
one  tabUapoonfDl  of  vrAiaiy  TaUm  Stdt.  Stir  nntil  dii- 
•olred  and  Um  solntloa  Is  nady  for  ue. 

ArUclea  to  be  cleaned  are  placed  Id  Silver-Clean  Pan 
Solution  and  left  therein  fh>in  one  (o  fhm  mamtam,  which 
ti  anSdcntliinatoremoTe  the  ordinarj  tamtiht  Ihey  are 
then  rinsed  all  at  once  in   cold  water,  and  dried  with 
cbamoia  akin  or  aoft  cloth,  and  will  be  cleaner  and  brighter 
than  you  can  clean  them  with  the  old  faahioned  powders 
orpaatca. 
Silverware    that    has    been   accumulating    taxniih    for 
I  month*  or  jean  may  be  cleaned  br  the  SilTer<}lean  Pan 
method,  wnlch  la  ^Utilatmfy  harmuM  to  BilTerware  or  the 
person  ualng  It. 
No.  9  Double  Pan,  small  famllr  rise,  (ent,  piepald,  for  three  (3}  new  lubacriptioni.  (Price  $2.00.) 
Thii  is  an  article  patented  bf  Frofeasors  of  ChemlBtrT  of  the  Unlvenltf  of  Wlaconsin,  and  after 
thorough  testa  haa  been  approved  and  recommended  by  Domestic  Science  teachen  everywhere. 


Pastry  Bali  and  Four  Tubes 

(Bag  not  shown  in  cot.) 

A  complete  outfit.  Practical  in  every  way. 
Hade  eapecially  for  Bakers  and  Caterers.  £mi- 
neutly  suitable  for  home  use. 

The  set  lent,  prepaid,  for  two  (2)  new  aub- 
scriptloDs.    (Price  $1.00.  prepaid.) 


Slantinii 
Dial 
^  Household 
K.       Scales 

'^     A  neceaalty  In 

,      every  borne. 

M       Sent,    prepaid. 

for  (3)  new  aub- 

scriptions. 

Price,  prepaid, 

Si.ao. 


The  Dream  Cream 
Whip 

For  whipping  cream,  beat- 
ing egga,  etc.  This  "Whip" 
ia  timpleindesign,  of  dura- 
ble construction  and  very 
light  running.  With  it  you 
can  whip  single  cream  per- 
fectly In  one  minute.  It  4bm 
■■I  sphuh  m  •rlalla'.     Com- 


EATER 

3 

EGGS 


A  New  Eu  Beater  and  a  Good  Oos 

Sent,  prepaid,   for  one  (1)   new  subKriptlon. 
Caah  price.  43  cenla. 


Three  Pint 
Melon  Mould 

For  Ice  cream .  bomtwa 
brown  brtad.  attamtd 
puddins*.  etc.,  etc. 

(1)  Dei''»u51:riptron?"' 
Cash  prtca,  ?0  ets. 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 

Buy  advertbed  Goods  —  do  not  accept  aubstitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


-^-': 


^ 


¥i 


mT  <■  (he  little  pefMUiol  toucKei  nbout  b  home  that  count.  The  attiMic  hansias  o(  a 
drapery,  the  hannoniou*  grouping  of  furniture,  the  aunny  freahneaa  of  a  newly  waahed 
curtaiOi  the  glowins  deannen  or  onuunenti  antl  bric-a-brac — luch  thins*  **  tbeae 
help  make  home  homelike  and  ihow  not  merely  industry  on  the  part  of  tbe  hotiae- 
kecper  but  a  knack  of  properly  caring  for  fine  thing*. 


Of  course,  special  hints  sometiinea  are  helpful,  luch  aa  the  directioiii  below  for  it 
a  tace  door  panel.  But  the  one  thing  neceaaary  ii  to  realize  how  many  things  ordinarily  nerer 
~  '  with  soap  may  be  accomplished  to  entire  satisfaction  with  the  mild,  pure  Irofy. 
To  Buggeit  some  of  ikeae  unusual  uses  we  have  compiled  a  booklet  of  about  100 
recipes  received  from  Tarious  source*.  These  recipes  will  be  found  pUfBilliigly 
interesting  and  exceptionally  helpfc'..  You  may  hare  a  copy  by  —H-g  tor 
"Unusual  Uses  of  Ivory  Soap."  Address  The  Procter  Ac  Gamble  Compai^, 
DepL  V-1,  Cincinnati. 

To  Wash  «  Lac*  Door  Panal 

Finl.  wuli  the  slua  in  ihe  door.  Thaa  wash  the  !■»  ia  llw  dmuI  w 
vuda  Bi  iTofT  Soap  fend  hike  If  mm  wntor.  Riaafl  well 
while  pfeBal  ia  mt.  place  ia  podrioo  on  door,  null  laoe 


f  SOAP 


Buy  advertiMd  Goods  —  do  not  Mcept  aubidtum 


NGTON-URQUHART  PRESS 
CONGRESS  ST..  BOSTON 


It  is  delicious 

A  well  made  cup  of 
good  cocoa  best  ful- 
fils the  requirements 
of  those  who  wish 
a  delicious  and 
nourishing  hot 
beverage,  and 

Baker's 
Cocoa 

H<g.D.B.p.t.off.  ig  "good"  cocoa 

in  every  sense  of  the  word,  ab- 
solutely pure  and  of  high  grade. 

Walter  Baker  fie  Co.  Ltd. 

EitabUilied  ITM 
Dorchester,  MaiMchuaetti 


ONE  QUART 
-CAPE  COD- 

urmberrieS 

I  EVAPORATED 

For    cttfht    S>c«>t 
■lampa     ^  allad 

I     aaywhcrc    IB    th« 
United  States. 

i        Bjrournewproceu, 

iwe  evapoiate  Ope 
Cod  Cranbfnie*  faok 
from  the  vines  so  lIwT 
letain  iheii  n«UB»l  fniit  flavot,  pack  Aem  b 
•eoled  pKikagei  lo  they  can  be  ihipped  J 
over  the  world  and  uicd  all  ihrou^  the  year. 


il  your  gmca  doo't  keep  ihem  lend  ii»  !>>• 
nuiiBUid*adreMWdlie--2ce(it4un[»ioi> 
pkg.  equJ  lo  OM  q«.rt  h»ib  cran- 
bairiw  by  mul.  piiitp«»J  m  tha  U.  &. 


•l^OSP 


D  of  tiMmeiitieT 

'umiUBces  caD  own  > . 

-  -  .DitnimentalnnchanieBDdA 
,..,„„rbomefree(>(eipenH.  Write  for  C«t«lii«ii»l 
VOSe  &  SONS  PIANO  CO..  16S  Boy  _ 


WHAT  CONSTITUTES  A  GOOD  TABLE 


1 


F 
1 


"The  Proof  is  in  the  Eating!' 

Painted  by  U.  J.  Perrell  lor  Cream  of  Wheal  Co.  Copyright  1911  by  CriaiB  of  Whea 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  Kcept  substitute! 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING- 
SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 

Vol.  XVin  MAY.  1914  No.  lO 


CONTENTS  FOR  MAY 


PAOK 


MENUS  FOR  LITTLE  DINNER  AND  BREAKFAST 

PARTY  IN  MAY 745 

OPENING  OF  BOSTON'S  NEW  FISH  PIER 

Frederick  Roche,  111.  747 

BUCOLIC  OPINIONS  ON  FLETCHERIZING 

Helen  S.  Gray  751 

WHISPERS Arthur  W.  Peach  752 

A  FORTNIGHT  IN  BERLIN Mary  D.  Lindsay  758 

WANDERLUST E.  R,  W.  757 

WHAT  CONSTITUTES  A  GOOD  TABLE   .   .  Anna  Mitchell  757 

THE  ROAD Agnes  L.  Hughes  759 

ELIMINATING  NON-ESSENTIALS     .     .     Eleanor  R.  Wilson  760 

A  SQUARE  DEAL  FOR  THE  MILK  BOTTLE 

Alice  E.  Whitaker  763 

ARCADY R.  R.  Greenwood  764 

POLLY'S  COURSE  IN  DESIGNING    ....     Elsie  S.  Eells  765 

EDITORIALS 766-8 

SEASONABLE  RECIPES    (Illustrated  with  half-tone  engravings 

of  prepared  dishes) Janet  M.  Hill  769 

MENUS  FOR  WEEK  IN  MAY „      „      „  777 

"       FAMILY  OF  FIVE „      „      „  778 

OUR  DAILY  BREAD „      „      „  780 

A  GUEST     ; Helen  C.  Le  Cron  783 

GERMAN  HOME  AND  KITCHEN  PROVERBS    Kate  Hudson  784 

HOME  IDEAS  AND    ECONOMIES 785 

QUERIES  AND  ANSWERS 790 

MISCELLANEOUS 806 


$1.00  A  YEAR      Pabllahed  Ten  Times  A  Year      10c  A  COPY 

Four  Years*   Saba  c  rlptlonp  $3.00 

Entered  at  Boston  poat-offlce  ••  second-clasa  matter. 

Copyrldht,  1914,  by 

THE  BOSTON  COOKING -SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO. 
372  BOYLSTON  STREET  BOSTON,  MASS. 


Pleastt  Renew  on  Receipt  of  the  Colored  Blank  Enclosed  for  that  Porpote 

738 


ADERTISEMENTS 


Five  leading  cooking 
all  recommend  Cott( 


Marion  Harland 
Mrs.  Sarah  Tyson  Rorer 
Mrs.  Helen  Armstrong 
Mrs.  Mary  J.  Lincoln 
and  Lida  Ames  'Willis 


have  written  a  wonderfid  nt 
recipes  and  cooking  hints  calli 
HELPS."  The  chapters  on 
Measure,"  "Tables  of  Compara 
"Time  Table  for  Cooking,"  etc 
worth  having.    We  will  send  r 


Cottc 


The  recipes  are  practical  for  i 
the  use  of  and  value  of  Cotto 

Cottolene  goes  much  ferther  t 
shortening.  Saves  money  bee 
insures  digestible  food. 

Dropa 
of  "HO 
Cottoler 


|THE  N.K.  f 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  Bubstitutea 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING^CHOOL  MAGAZINE 


THE  MOST  DEUCIOUS  DRESSING 

FOR 

SALADS,   COLD   MEATS,    SAND- 
WICHES,    BAKED    BEANS,   ETC 

SLADE'S 

Salad  Cream 

Made  from  the  purest,  freshest 
and  most  wholesome  ingredients. 

Contains  NO  OIL. 

Free  from  artificial  coloring  mat- 
ter and  chemical  preservatives. 

Made  in  silver  lined  kettles  and 
packed  by  silver  lined  machineiy 
to  insure  perfect  purity  and  cleanliness. 


Ask  Grocers  for  SLADE'S 


D.  &  L.  SLADE  CO..  BOSTON 


IVe  have  an  Attractive 
Proposition 

k>  make  to  those  who  wiD  take  sofc^ 
•criplioos  for 

THE  BOSTON 

COOKING-SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE 

Write  us  if  you  wish  to  canvass  youi 
to%vn  or  if  you  wish  to  secure  only  a  few 
names  among  your  friends  and  acqiuaint- 
ances.  Start  the  work  at  once  and  you 
win  be  surprised  how  easily  you  can  earn 
ten.  twenty  or  fifty  dollars. 

Addrets 
SUBSCRIPTION  DEPARTMENT 

Boston  Cooking-School 
Magazine  Co. 

BOSTON.  MASSACHUSETTS 


INDEX  FOR  MAY 


Page 

A  Fortnight  in  Berlin      753 

A  Square  Deal  for  the  Milk  Bottle    .   .  763 

Arcady       764 

Bucolic  Opinions  on  Fletchcrizing    ...  751 

Editorials       766-8 

Eliminating   Non-Essentials       T   .    .   .   .  760 

Home  Ideas  &  Economies 785 

Menus       745,  777-9 

Opening  Boston's  New  Fish  Pier    ...  747 

Our  Daily  Bread       780 

Polly's  Course  in  Designing      765 

The  Road 759 

Wanderlust       757 

What  Constitutes  A  Good  Table      ...  757 

Whispers       750 

Seasonable  Recipes: 

Bread,  Rye  and  Oatmeal,  111 774 

Cake,  Hickory  Nut,  with  Frostings,  111.  776 
Cake,  Hot  F|dge,  with  Marshmallow 

Sauce      775 

Canapes,  Indienne 769 

Chestnuts  and  Bermuda  Onions,  with 

Parsley       773 

Cookies,  Oatmeal       775 

Croquettes,  Clam 769 

Filets  of  Flounder,  Czarina  Style,  111.  770 

Jelly,  Tomato,  111 774 

Onions,  Creamed  with  Parsley    ...  773 

Potatoes,  Fried,  Whole      770 

Rissoles,  Sweet  Bread 770 

Rolls,  Dinner.  Ill 774 

Salad,  Poteto.  Ill 771 

Salad,  Stringbean,   111 772 

Strawberry  Shortcake,  111 775 

Tarts,  Strawberry  Jam,  111.  775 

Tomatoes  a  la  Tartare 769 

Vegetables,  Macedoine    of,  in    Tomato 

Jelly,  111 772 

Queries  and  Answers: 

Bread,  Rye-and-Indian      79(» 

Cake,  Made  with  Water 792 

Cake,  German  Coffee 794 

Carving  a  Leg  of  Lamb  796 

Creams,  Maple  Fondant 796 

Creams,  Maple-and-Nut 7% 

Croquettes,   Canned,   Salmon     ....  791 

Fondant,  Maple      796 

Jam,   Rhubarb    (Scotland)      792 

Jelly,   Rhubarb 792 

Marmalade,  Rhubarb 792 

Menus   for  Children 790 

Menus  for  Sunday  Night  Suppers  791 

Mousse,  Chicken 794 

Oatmeal,  Cooking  of 798 

Plunketts       792 

Pudding,   Steamed,   Date 798 

Rice,  Composition  of 798 

Salad,  Canned  Salmon 792 

Salmon,   Creamed      792 

Salmon,    Deviled     .   .  •. 792 

Salmon,  Hot,  Canned      792 

Sandwiches,    Salmon 792 

Souffle,  Date 796 

Souffle,   Salmon      791 

Tea  Ring,  Swedish 794 

Timbales,  Fish 796 

Timbales,     Chicken,     with     Bechamel 

Sauce      794 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

740 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


When  Fruits  are  Prime-  that's  Canninj  Time 


The  only  book  on  the  subject  upon  which  you  can  abso- 
lutely rely.  You  cannot  make  mistakes  if  you  follow  the  plain, 
simple  directions.  Mrs.  Rorer  tells  how  to  can  ana  pre- 
serve all  manner  of  fruits  and  vegetables,  how  to  make  jams, 
jellies,  marmalades,  fruit  butters,  syrups,  catsups,  vinegars, 

w^  •  with  chapters  on  powders  and  driea  herbs,  drymg  and  pick- 

t  reserving      Ung.    a  new  up-to-date  edition. 

Cloth  boandv    75   cents;  by   mall  ftO   cents 


Canning 
and 


High  Prices  nuUifted  by  Good  Devices 


You  can  snap  your  fingers  at  high  prices  for  foodstuffs. 
The  knowledge  Mrs.  Rorer  gives  in  this  wonderful  book 
will  provide  your  table  with  an  abundance  of  choice  delect- 
able dishes  fit  for  the  connoisseur.  She  shows  how  to 
select,  prepare,  cook  and  serve  delightfully,  all  vegetables, 
and  how  to  make  delicious  dishes  to  use  in  place  of  meat, 
at  once  dainty,  wholesome  and  palatable. 

Cloth  bound,   $I.dO;   by   mall   $1.6d 


Vegetable 
Cookery  and 
Meat 
Substitutes 


Jce  Cream  and  Warm  Weather  surely  go  together 


Ice  Creams 
Water  Ices 
Frozen  Puddings 


It  is  a  great  boon  to  know  how  to  make  all 
kinds  of  Frozen  Sweets  at  a  small  fraction  of  the 
cost  of  buying.  This  book  contains  Philadelphia 
Ice  Creams,  Neapolitan  Ice  Creams,  Water  Ices, 
Frozen  puddings,  Frozen  Fruits,  Sherbets,  Sorbets, 
Sauces,  and  a  Department  of  Refreshments  for 
Social  Affairs  and  Church  Suppers. 

Cloth  bound*    75   cants  t  by  mall  SO  cents 


For  School  Time;  Picnic  Time;  Ail  Time 


Here  are  four  books  whose  titles  tell  their 
tales.  You  will  find  each  one  useful  and  bene- 
ficial. There  is  no  doubt  about  the  important 
part  that  Sandwiches  play  in  the  home  and 
school  life,  nor  how  much  we  depend  on  Eggs 
for  our  daily  food.  Then  there  are  pleasure  and 
profit  for  all  in  the  Cake  and  Candy  Making. 

Cloth  bonnd,  EACH  50  cts.t  by  mall  55  cts. 


Sandwiches 
Many  Ways  for  Eggs 
Home  Candy  Making 
Cakes,  Icings,  Fillings 


From  these  Good  Things  much  Satisfaction  Springs 


New  Salads 

Dainties 

Best  250  Recipes 


A  good  salad  is  welcome  toward  the  close  of 
dinner.  Here  are  the  best.  After  comes  the 
"  dainty  "  or  dessert.  Again  Mrs.  Rorer  has. 
made  a  selection  of  her  favorite  recipes  and  put 
them  in  a  book  for  her  friends  —  all  housewives 
are  her  friends.  These  books  are  all  valuable 
and  make  a  welcome  addition  to  home  helps. 

Cloth  bound,  EACH   75   cts.;  by  mail   SO  cts. 


0/  all  bookstores  or  department  stores   or  of  us 

ARNOLD  &  COMPANY,  420  Sansom  Street,  Philadelphia 


Buy  avdertised  goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

741 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Books  on  Household  Economics 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  presents  the  following  as  a  list  of  repre- 
sentative works  on  household  economics.    Any  of  the  books  will  be  sent  postpaid  upon 
receipt  of  price. 
With   an   order   amounting   to  $5  or   more   we   include   a   year's  subscription  to  THE 
BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  (price  $1). 

Special  rates  made  to  schools,  clubs  and  persons  wishing  a  number  of  books.  Write  for 
quotation  on  the  list  of  books  you  wish.  We  carry  a  very  Urge  stock  of  these  books.  One  order 
to  us  saves  effort  and  express  charges. 


A-B-Z  of  Our  Own  Nutrition.  Horace 

Fletcher     1.00 

American  Cook  Book.  Mrs.  J.  M.  Hill  LIO 
American  Salad  Book.  M.  DeLoup...  I.OO 
Around  the  World  Cook  Book.  Barroll  1.50 
Art  of  Entertaining.  Madame  Mesri  1.00 
Art    of    Home    Candy-Making    (with 

thermometer,  dipping  wire,  etc.)  3.00 

Art  of  Right  Living.     Richards 50 

Baby,  The.    A  book  for  mothers  and 

nurses.  D.  R.  Brown,  M.  D 1.00 

Bacteria,    Yeasts    and    Molds    in    the 

Home.    H.   W.   Conn    1.00 

Book  of  Entrees.  Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill  1.50 
Book  of  Good  Manners.  Kingsland...  1.50 
Boston  Cook  Book.  Mary  J.  Lincoln  2.00 
Boston    Cooking   School   Cook   Book. 

Fannie  M.  Farmer 2.00 

Boston    School    Kitchen    Text    Book. 

Mary  J.  Lincoln  i 1.00 

Bread  and  Bread-making.  Mrs.  Rorer  .50 
Bright  Ideas  for  Entertaining.  Linscott  .50 
Brussels  Charts  (Two.)    Showing  cuts 

of  Beef,  Lrmb  and  Veal  2.00 

Cakes,  Icings  and  Fillings.  Mrs.  Rorer  .50 
Cakes,  Cake  Decorations  and  Desserts. 

King    1.00 

Candy  Making  Revolutionized.     Mary 

Elizabeth  Hall 75 

Canning  and  Preserving.  Mrs.  Rorer  .75 
Care  and  Feeding  of  Children.     L.  E. 

Care  of  a  Child  in  Health.    N.  Oppen- 

heim    1.25 

Care  of  a  House.    T.  M.  Clark 1.50 

Carving  and  Serving.  Mary  J.  Lincoln  .60 
Catering  for  Special  Occasions.  Farmer  1.00 
Century  Cook  Book.  Mary  Roland . .  2.00 
Chemistry  in  Daily  Life.  Lessar-Cohn  I.7S 
Chemistry    of    Cookery.    W.   Mattieu 

Williams    L50 

Chemistry   of   Cooking   and   Cleaning 

Richards  and  Elliott  LOO 

Chemistry    of    Food    and    Nutrition. 

Sherman    L50 

Clean  Milk.    S.  D.  Belcher 1.00 

Cleaning  and  Renovating.  E.  G.  Osman  .75 
Color,    Harmony    and   Contrast.     Jas. 

Wood   4.20 

Complete     Home,     The.      Clara     £. 

Laughlin    L25 

Cook  Book  for  Nurses.  Sarah  C.  Hill  .75 
Cooking  for  Two.  Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill  1.50 
Cost  of  Cleanness.    Richards   LOO 


Cost  of  Food    Richards LOO 

Cost  of  Living.    Richards LOO 

Cost  of  Shelter.    Richards  LOO 

Dainties.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 

Dietetic  Value  of  Bread.    John  Good- 
fellow   1.50 

Diet  in  Relation  to  Age  and  Activity. 

Thompson  LOO 

Dictionary  of  Cookery.    Cassell 2.50 

Domestic  Art  in  Woman's  Education. 

Cooley    1^5 

Domestic      Science      in      Elementary 

Schools.     Wilson   LOO 

Domestic  Service.    Lucy  M.  Salmon..  2.00 

Dust  and  Its  Dangers.    Pruden 75 

Economics  of  Modem  Cookery.  M.  M. 

Mallock'  LOO 

Elements  of  the  Theory  and  Practice 

of  Cookery.    Williams  and  Fisher. ..   LOO 
Equipment    for    Teaching    Domestic 

Science.     Kinne    80 

Etiquette      of      New      York      Today. 

Learned    1-35 

Etiquette  of  Today.    Ordway 50 

Euthenics.     Richards    LOO 

Every  Day  Menu  Book.    Mrs.  Rorer..  L50 
Expert  Waitress.    A.  F.  Springsteed .  •  LOO 

Family  Food.  O'Donnell 1.00 

First  Principles  of  Nursing.    Anne  R. 

Manning    LOO 

Food  and  Cookery  for  the   Sick  and 

Convalescent.  Fannie  M.  Farmer.. ..  1.60 
Food  and  Dietaries.     R.    W.    Burnett 

M.  D 1.50 

Food      and      Feeding.        Sir      Henry 

Thompson     1.35 

Food  ft  Flavor.     Finck 2.00 

Food    and    Household     Management. 

Kinne  and  Cooley  LIO 

Food  and  Its  Function.    James  Knight  LOO 
Food     and     Nutrition.      Bevier     and 

Ushir    LOO 

Food  and  the  Principles  of  Dietetics. 

Hutchinson     3.00 

Food  for  the  Invalid  and  the  Convales- 
cent.    Gibbs   75 

Food  in  Health  and    Disease.     I.    B. 

Yeo,  M.  D i50 

Food  Materials  and  Their   Adultera-     * 

tions.     Richards   1.00 

Food  Products  of  the  World.    Mary  £. 

Green    1.50 

Franco-American  Cookery  Book.    De- 

liee 3.S0 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

742 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Fuels  of  the  Household.  Marian  White  .75 
Golden  Rule  Cook  Book  (600  Recipes 

for  Meatless  Dishes]).    Sharpe 2.00 

Grocer's    Encyclopaedia 10.00 

Guide  to  Modem  Cookery.  M.  Escoffier  4.00 
Handbook  of  Home  Economics.  Flagg  .75 
Handbook    of    Hospitality    for    Town 

and  Country.     Florence  H.  Hall....  1.50 
Handbook  of  Invalid  Cooking.     Mary 

A.  Boland  2.00 

Handbook  on  Sanitation.    G.  M.  Price, 

M.  D : 1.50 

Health   and    Longevity   Through    Ra- 
tional Diet.     Dr.  Arnold  Lorand 2.50 

Healthful   Farm    House,   The.     Helen 

Dodd    60 

Home  Candy  Making.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Home  Economics.    Maria  Parloa 1.50 

Home  Economics  Movement 75 

Home  Nursing.     Harrison   1.00 

Home  Problems  from  a  New  Standpoint  1.00 
Home  Science  Cook  Book.    Anna  Bar- 
rows and  Mary  J.  Lincoln 1.00 

Homes  and  Their  Decoration.    French  3.00 

Hot  Weather  Dishes.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

House  Sanitation.    Talbot 80 

Household  Bacteriology.  Buchanan..  2.25 
Household  Economics.  Helen  Campbell  1.50 
Household  Science.  Junita  L.  Shepperd  1.75 

Household  Textiles.     Gibbs 1.25 

How  To  Cook  for  the  Sick  and  Con- 
valescent.   H.  V.  Sachse 1.00 

How  To  Feed    Children.     Louise    E. 

Hogan    1.00 

How  to  Use  a  Chafing  Dish.  Mrs.  Rorer    .50 

Human  Foods.    Snyder 1.25 

Ice  Cream,  Water  Ices,  etc.    Rorer  ...     .75 

I  Go  A  Marketing.    Sowle : .  1.50 

Institution  Recipes.    Smedley 1.25 

International  Cook  Book.    Filippini...  1.00 

Kitchen  Companion.     Parloa 2.50 

Laboratory    Handbook    for    Dietetics. 

Rose    1.10 

Laundry  Manual.  Balderston  and  Lim- 
erick     50 

Laundry  Work.     Juanita  L.  Shepperd    .60 
Lessons  in  Cooking  Through  Prepara- 
tion of  Meals  2.00 

Lessons  in  Elementary  Cooking.   Mary 

C.    Jones   1.08 

Like  Mother  Used  to  Make.    Herrick.  1.25 

Luncheons.    Mary  Roland  1.40 

Made-over  Dishes.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Many  Ways  for  Cooking  Eggs.     Mrs. 

Rorer    50 

Menu  Book  and  Register  of  Dishes. 

Senn    2.50 

Mothers^  The,  Guide.    Coolidge 50 

My  Best  250  Recipes.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 

New  Book  of  Cookery,  A.  Fannie  M. 

Farmer 1.60 

New  Hostess  of  Today.    Larned 1.50 

New  Salads.    Mrs.  Rorer 75 


Nursing,  Its  Principles  and    Practice. 

Isabel  H.  Robb  2.00 

Nutrition  of  Man.    Chittenden  3.00 

Old  Age  Deferred.    Dr.  Arnold  Lorand  2.50 
Old  Time   Recipes  for    Home    Made 

Wines.    Helen  S.  Wright 1.50 

One  Woman's  Work  for  Farm  Women    .50 

Paper  Bag  Cookery.    Soyer 60 

Pleasures  of  the  Table.    Elwang^r....  2.50 
Practical  Cooking  and  Dinner  Giving. 

Mrs.  Mary  F.  Henderson 1.50 

Practical  Cooking  and  Serving.     Mrs. 

Janet  M.  Hill 1.50 

Practical  Dietetics.    Gilman  Thompson  5.00 
Practical    Points    in    Nursing.     Emily 

A.  M.  Stoney  1.75 

Practical  Sewing  ft  Dressmaking.    Al- 

lington   1.50 

Principles  of  Home  Decoration.    Can- 
dace  Wheeler   1.80 

Principles  of  Human  Nutrition.  Jordan  1.75 

Quick  Soups.    Mrs.  Rorer 25 

Kecipes  and  Menus  for  Fifty.    Frances 

Lowe  Smith   1.50 

Rorer's  (Mrs.)  New  Cook  Book 2.00 

Salads  and  Sauces.    Murray 50 

Salads,  Sandwiches,  and  Chafing  Dish 

Dainties.    Mrs.  Janet  M.  Hill 1.50 

Sandwiches.    Mrs.  Rorer 50 

Sanitation  in  Daily  Life.    Richards 60 

Selection    and    Preparation    of    Food. 

Brevier  and  Meter 75 

Sewing  Course  for  Schools.    Wool  man  1.50 
Shelter  and  Clothing.  Kinne  and  Cooley  1.10 

Story  of  Germ  Life.    H.  W.  Conn 35 

Soyer's  Standard  Cookery 1.50 

Sunday  Night  Suppers.    Christine  Ter- 

hune  Herrick  ,,.   1.00 

The  Story  of  Textiles 3.00 

The  Up-to-Date  Waitress.    Mrs.  Janet 

M.  Hill   1.50 

The  Woman  Who  Spends.     Bertha  J. 

Richardson    1.00 

Till  the  Doctor  Comes,  and  How  To 

Help  Him 1.00 

Vegetable  Cookery  and  Meat    Substi- 
tutes.   Mrs.  Rorer 1.50 

Vegetarian  Cookery.    A.  G.  Payne 50 

With  a  Saucepan  Over  the  Sea.    Ade- 
laide Keen   1.50 

Women    and     Economics.      Charlotte 

Perkins  Stetson   1.50 

Woman's  Share  in   Primitive   Culture. 

Otis  J.  Mason  1.75 

World's  Commercial  Products,  The.  ...  3.60 

Library  of  Home  Economics: 


Tkt  BoBM 

BtM«h*li  Bacttrltltfy 
Htastlioli  Hyfltat 
Cbcarittry  tl  thii  HMMhtli 
MatlplM  «i  CMkarjr 
f—d  tai  DItletlci 


Bo«seh*U  NaaafMMBt 
FwMoil  Hyglcnt 
BMMCmtrih»Sick 
TexHiM  aii4  Clotldai 
SMy  •!  CUM  Ltft 
Cire  of  ChlUren 

(May  be  purchased    as  a   set   or 
singly  at  $1.50  a  volume). 


ADDRESS  ALL  ORDERS 

THE  BOSTON  COOKIN&SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


Buy  advertised.Goods  —  do|not  accept  substitutes 

743 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


An  Entirely  New  Cook  Book  by  Miss  Farmer 

A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 

Aathor  of  ''The  Boston  Cookiiig  School  Cook  Book/'  Etc. 

H^itk  EigMt  Colored  PUuti  mmd  mort  than   Tvn  Hundnd  IlmstrMmis  im  HaJf-Tmu 

Cloth,  $1.60,  net.       By  mail,  $1.75 

Since  its  original  publication.  Miss  Farmer's  *'Boston  Cooking 
School  Cook  Book"  has,  in  new  editions,  incorporated  large  addi- 
tions, but  the  wealth  of  new  material — the  result  ot  experiments 
in  the  author's  classrooms  and  embodied  in  recipes  which  have 
been  thoroughly  tested — has  grown  to  such  an  extent  that  it  has 
become  necessary  to  incorporate  it  in  a  separate  volume  which 
forms  an  almost  indispensable  companion  to  the  author's  invalu- 
able '^Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book." 

The  **  New  Book  of  Cookery'*  contains  more  than  eight  hun- 
dred recipes  upon  all  branches,  including  many  new  and  import- 
ant dishes  not  to  be  found  in  any  other  work.  It  is  profusely 
illustrated. 

LITTLE,  BROWN  &  CO,'  Publishers   -   BOSTON 


Miss  Farmer's  School  of  Cookery 

30  HUNTINGTON  AVENUE.  BOSTON,  MASS. 


TWELFTH  SUMMER  COURSE 

FROM  JULY  9  TO  AUGUST  14.  1914 


Arranged  to  meet  the  needs  of  teachers  of  cookeiy,  dietitians,  matrons 
of  institutions  and  housekeepers. 

Lessons  in  marketing,  advanced  cookery,  sick  room  cookery  and 
waitress*  work,  by  members  of  the  school's  staff. 

Lectures  on  practical  dietetics,  infant  and  child  feeding  and 
in  institutions,  by  members  of  the  Harvard  Medical  School  staff. 


TERMS!  $45 


PROSPECTUS  ON  APPUCATION 


FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 


I 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitures 

744 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


A  New  Cook  Book  by  Mrs.  Hill 

The  American  Cook  Book 

By  MRS.  JANET  McKENZIE  HILL 

EAtor  The  BMtoa  CooUii|"School  NagasiBC 


Milastrmted  Cloth,  Sl*OQ  netg  by  mmil,  fLlO 


THIS  book  18  for  everyday  use.     For  the  most  part  the  recipes  are  simple 
and  concise,  and  just  such  as  will  be  of  assistance  in  preparing  the  reg- 
ular family  meals,  but  scattered  through  the  book  are  a  few  recipes  for 
choice  dishes  that  will  grace  any  feast     Each  recipe  has  been  tried  and  tried 
again,  and  is  absolutely  right     The  directions  are  complete  and  easily  followed. 
Using  this  book  you  are  sure  of  success  eveiy  time. 


We  wUi  Bend  the  American  Cook  Book,  poeiptud  upon  roeeipt  of  $1,10, 
or  to  any  present  eahseriber  as  a  premium  for  eending  two  (2)  new  »ub» 
ecriptione  at  $1.00  each* 

THE  BOSTON  COOiUN&SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO.  ::     Boston,  Maw. 


Lessons  in  Elementary  Cooking 

By  MARY  CHANDLER  JONES 

Teachsr  of  Cookery  In  tho  Public  Schools  of  BrooUlne*  Mmmrn* 

Cloth,    272  Pages^  Illustrated,    $1^00  net        Postage,    8  cents 

PiRT  of  this  book  appeared  serially  in  this  magazine  and  met  with  such  favor  as  to  warrant 
its  publication  in  book  form.    The  chapters  that  were  in  the  magazine  have  been  rewritten 
and  enlarged,  and  about  as  many  more  entirely  new  chapters  (37  chapters  in  all)  added, 
together  with  some  dozen  or  more  illlustrations. 

I  ni8  Book  is  for  the  use  of  those  teaching  Cooking  in  the  EJementaiy  Schools, 
and  we  believe  such  teachers  will  derive  more  help  from  this  book  than  from  any  other  yet 
published. 

1  ni8   Book  has  been  adopted  as  a  text  book  by  many  High  Schools. 
Xni8    Book  is  Used  as  a  text  book  in  several  State  Normal  Schools. 

Every  Cooking  Teacher  needs  this  book 
Any  School  using  a  text  book  will  do  well  to  examine  this  one 

ADDRESS    ALL    ORDERS 

THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE  CO,    BoMon.  Mam. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitures 

VII 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


dlRl  chcTTT  or  RnclMi  ■< 


Tor  SvLCCQSsfvl  Bakin4 

mdst 

snoriQnmg 
means 

"SIMON 
PURE" 
LEAF 


Old  Fnibloiial  Cook  las 


PIE  CRUST 

IH  teanooiH  mSX  jd(l«l 
Mottua  Uft  A  domli  win 
oa  osrir  «H  hill.  rnrr> 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


Little  Dinner  in  May 

Creamed  Halibut  in  Ramekins 

(Au  Gratin) 

Dinner  Rolls 

Lettuce,  Tomato-and-Leek  Salad,  French  Dressing 

Roasted  Fillet  of  Beef,  Brown  Mushroom  Sauce 

Franconia  Potatoes 
Boiled  Bermuda  Onions,  Buttered 
Asparagus,  Hollandaise  Sauce 
Pineapple  Bavarian  Cream,  Pompadour 

Coffee 

^  ^  ^ 

BREAKFAST  PARTY  IN  MAY 

(Hour  11  A.  M.) 

Strawberries,  French  Fashion 

Cereal,  Cream 

Asparagus  Omelet,  Bacon  Rolls 

Broiled  Sweetbreads,  Maitre  d'HOtel 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Hot  Yeast  Rolls 

Orange  Marmalade 

Coffee 


A  eS-POUND  COD  LANDED  AT  T  WHARF 


The 
Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine 


Vol.  XVIII 


MAY,  1914 


No.  10 


BOSTONS  NEW  FISH  PIER 


Opening  of  Boston's  New  Fish  Pier.  Means  Much 
to  the  Housewife 


By  Frederick  Roche 


THE  opening  of  the  new  Boston 
Fish  Pier,  the  $3,000,000  plant 
in  South  Boston,  which  is  to 
take  the  place  of  Boston's  famed  T  wharf 
as  the  center  of  the  fresh  fish  industry 
of  the  Atlantic  Coast,  is  an  event  of 
no  small  importance  to  American  house- 
wives. It  means  that  the  country's 
fresh  fish  supply  will  be  better  handled 
and  that  the  individual  housewife  will 
be  able  to  get  better  fish  for  her  table 
than  ever  before,  and  at  no  greater 
price. 

The  officers  of  the  Boston  Fish  Mar- 
ket Corporation,  builders  and  managers 
of  the  vast  and  unique  plant  at  South 
Boston,  the  largest  and  most  complete 
fish  market  in  the  world,  have  set  high 
ideals    for    themselves.     They    believe 


that  to  make  the  fresh  fish  business  a 
success  they  must  induce  the  housewife 
to  use  more  fish,  and  that  this  can 
best  be  accomplished  by  placing  a  bet- 
ter grade  of  fish  upon  the  market,  and 
at  the  same  time  educating  the  house- 
wife to  know  good  fish  and  to  cook  it 
properly. 

The  actual  work  of  setting  their  won- 
derful new  plant  in  operation,  once 
finished,  the  fish  men  plan  a  campaign 
of  education  for  the  consumer.  They 
plan  to  show  the  man  who  eats  fish  and 
the  woman  who  cooks  it,  that  there 
may  be  a  great  deal  of  difference  in 
the  taste  of  two  fish  of  the  same  variety, 
caught  at  the  same  time,  but  handled 
and  cooked  differently.  They  also  plan 
to  prove  to  the  housewife  that  there 


748 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


are  a  number  of  varieties  of  fish  not 
generally  eaten  —  which  at  least  the 
housewife  would  refuse  to  buy  luider 
their  trade  name  —  which  are  really 
very  tasty  and  have  an  extensive  sale 
as  food  in  other  countries. 

The  fish  dealers  have  begun  their 
work  for  the  attainment  of  their  ideal 
by  constructing  at  South  Boston  the 
biggest  pier  in  the  world,  given  over 
exclusivUy  to  the  fishing  industry. 
This  pier  is  of  concrete  and  is  1 200  feet 
long  and  400  feet  wide.  Upon  it  stands 
two  rows  of  stores,  also  of  concrete, 
clean  and  sanitary.  The  motto  that 
cleanliness  is  next  to  godHness  has  been 
the  watchword  in  the  construction  of 
the  pier  and  no  detail  has  been  omitted 
which  would  work  to  keep  the  pier 
absolutely  clean.  Adequate  drainage 
has  been  provided  and  facilities  ar- 
ranged for  washing  every  inch  of  the 
pier  and  of  the  tile-lined  stores  each 
day.  The  fish  dealers  intend  to  see 
that  absolutely  no  dirt  is  allowed  to 
collect  —  a  striking  contrast  to  T  wharf, 
which  from  the  time  it  was  first  used 
as  a  fish  pier,  30  years  ago,  went  un- 
washed until  it  went  out  of  existence 
as  the  center  of  the  country's  fisheries. 

Even  the  personal  appearance  of  the 


employees  of  the  new  pier  has  been 
taken  into  account  and  the  men  who 
actually  handle  the  fish  have  been  pro- 
vided with  neat  uniforms,  constantly 
changed,  so  that  they  will  always  pre- 
sent as  clean  an  appearance  as  possible. 
The  facilities  for  keeping  the  fish  landed 
at  the  pier  in  excellent  condition  are 
unequaled  anywhere.  Ice,  made  in 
the  great  cold  storage  plant  at  the  head 
of  the  pier,  will  be  delivered,  crushed, 
to  the  stores  each  morning  and  an  effort 
will  be  made  to  see  that  all  the  fish 
landed  is  iced  as  soon  as  weighed. 

The  reaction  in  favor  of  better  hand- 
ling of  fresh  sea-foods  has  not  stopped 
with  the  dealers,  but  its  influence  has 
been  felt  by  the  fishermen.  They  have 
had  impressed  upon  them  the  fact  that 
to  get  the  best  prices  for  their  catch 
they  must  bring  it  to  port  and  deliver 
it  to  the  dealers  in  an  A-I  condition. 
The  wholesale  dealers  believe  that  this 
movement  for  marketing  better  fish 
will  extend  before  long  to  the  retail  deal- 
ers and  expect  that  radical  changes  will 
be  made  in  the  handling  of  sea-foods 
by  the  last  named. 

The  fish  dealers  believe  that  the  high 
price  of  meats  and  other  food-stuffs  is 
constantly  calling  the  attention  of  the 


THE  STREET  BETWEEN  THE  LONG  BUILDINGS 


OPENING  OF  NEW  PISH  PIER 


housewife  to  the  vast  possibilities  of 
fish  and  feel  that,  when  these  possibilities 
are  realized  by  the  women  of  this 
countryjthe  extent  of  their  business  will 
rapidly  increase.  Fish  men  at  T  wharf 
claim  that  in  the  past  a  large  percentage 
of  the  fish  has  been  spoiled  either  by 
improper  handling  or  cooking.  The 
average  housewife,  they  say,  knows 
but  one  or  two  ways  of  preparing  fish 
and  these  but  imperfectly.  A  short 
time  ago  a  cook-book  prepared  by  the 
New  England  Fish  Exchange  was  put 
on  the  market  just  to  prove  that  the 
manner  of  preparing  fish  for  the  table 
can  be  varied  indefinitely.  Expert  cooks 
have  claimed  any  variety  of  fish  can 
be  prepared  for  the  table  so  that  it 
will  be  extremely  palatable  even  for 
those  who  have  a  natural  aversion  for 
sea-foods.  The  United  States  govern- 
ment has  set  its  cookery  experts  to 
work  on  the  problem  and  there  is  rea- 
son to  believe  that  before  long  the  gov- 
ernment presses  will  be  turning  out 
expert  advice  for  the  housewives  on  the 
subject  of  preparing  fish  for  the  table. 


THE  MODERN  FISHING  SCHOONER 

The  average  housewife,  it  is  said, 
knows  but  half  a  dozen  varieties  of 
fish:  cod,  haddock,  halibut,  mackerel, 
salmon  and  swordfish.  They  frequently 
buy  what  is  known  as  Boston  "blue 
fish,"  in  reality,  pollock.  This,  the  fish 
dealers  say,  is  a  strong  argument  in 
favor  of  giving  more  euphonious  names 
to  the  salt  water  finny  tribe  which  are 
used  as  food.  It  is  a  fact  that  the 
"salt  cod  fish,"  which    the  housewife 


STEAM  TRAWLER,  ANOTHER   TYPE  OF  FISHING  CRAFT 


750 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


■  from  which  she  makes  fish 
balls,  is  frequently  hake.  It  is  also  a 
fact  that  the  housewife  will  not  buy 
either  pollock  or  hake  under  those 
names. 

While  the  fish  dealers  at  Boston  have 
no  hope  that  the  housewife  will  imme- 
diately adopt  the  government's  sugges- 
tions about  eating  dog  fish  they  believe 
it  is  a  fact  that  the  time  is  at  hand  for 
the  American  people  to  dismiss  their 
prejudices  against  certain  extremely 
palatable  varieties  of  fish,  prejudices 
due  solely  to  the  unfortunate  appella- 
tions of  these  fish. 


The  railroad  facilities  of  the  new  pier 
have  been  so  arranged  that  fresh  fish 
can  be  shipped  to  all  parts  of  the 
country.  There  is  no  reason  why  a 
housewife  in  the  middle  of  the  country 
should  not  be  able  to  purchase  excellent 
fish,  at  a  reasonable  figure,  caught  in  the 
Atlantic  Ocean  and  landed  at  Boston. 

The  United  States  government  has 
been  trying  for  a  long  time  to  tell  the 
housewife  that  its  experts  have  found 
fish  to  be  an  excellent  and  a  cheap  food. 
The  fish  dealers  of  Boston  are  taking 
up  the  same  work.  Is  the  housewife 
ready  to  listen  ? 


THE  OLD  T  WHARF 


Whispers 


The  grasses  whisper  to  the  wind, 

The  maples  to  the  rain; 
Light-footed  Spring  goes  whispering 

In  meadow  and  in  lane. 


The  pines  forever  tell  of  thing* 
That  happened  long  ago; 

The  rosea  tell  a  lovCT^  spell 
When  evening  winds  are  low. 


The  whispered  word  of  human  lips — ■ 

How  much  it  can  impart! 
And  sweetest  far  love's  whispers  are. 

Soft  spoken  from  the  heart! 

Akthuk  Wallace  Peach. 


Bucolic  Opinions  on  Fletcherizing 


By  Helen  S.  Gray 


WHEN  Horace  Fletcher  was  giv- 
ing a  course  of  lectures  at 
Elbert  Hubbard's  in  East 
Aurora,  he  was  accompanied  by  a  stu- 
dent, Mr.  Granger,  who  told  what  Flet- 
cherizing had  done  for  him  and  illustra- 
ted his  talkbydoing  the  deep  knee-bend- 
ing exercise.  It  was  remarkable  with 
Tvhat  ease  he  did  it.  "One  of  the  tests 
of  endurance  used  in  gymnasiums",  said 
he,  "is  that  called  the  deep  knee-bending 
exercise,  which  consists  in  lowering 
the  body  until  it  almost  rests  on  the 
heels  and  then  rising  to  full  height.  I 
underwent  this  test  at  Battle  Creek 
and  was  able  to  do  it  almost  3000 
times  in  succession,  but  I  was  sore 
afterwards.  Then  I  heard  of  Fletcher- 
izing and  adopted  it.  At  first,  it  took 
me  about  three  hours  a  day  to  eat 
my  meals,  but  in  a  week  or  ten  days 
I  had  gained  facility  so  that  I  could 
get  through  eating  in  the  time  that 
others  do,  and  I  found  I  was  eating 
only  one-half  or  two-thirds  as  much 
as  I  had  formerly.     After  one  month's 


experience  with  Fletcherizing,  I  went 
down  to  Yale  to  undergo  some  tests 
Prof.  Irving  Fisher  was  conducting. 
Few  of  the  meat-eaters  could  do  the 
knee-bending  test  more  than  300  or 
400  times  in  succession,  and  after  it 
could  hardly  walk  down  stairs,  so 
weakened  were  their  leg  muscles  by  the 
ordeal.  The  maximum  number  of 
times  reached  by  meat-eaters  was 
800-900.  One  vegetarian  athlete  at 
Yale  made  a  record  of  1200  times  with- 
out exhaustion,  after  which  he  ran 
around  the  gymnasium  and  walked 
several  miles.  At  Battle  Creek,  a 
dozen  of  the  vegetarian  nurses  and 
doctors  had  done  the  test  1800  times, 
and  one  did  it  2400  times,  after  which 
he  went  on  with  his  regular  work.  I 
did  the  knee-bending  test  5002  times, 
without  stopping,  in  two  hours  and 
nineteen  minutes.  I  could  have  con- 
tinued for  a  while  longer,  but  it  was 
getting  monotonous  for  the  spectators. 
Then  I  had  a  plunge  in  the  tank  and 
felt    no    muscular    soreness    the    next 


752 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


day  or  afterwards.  By  a  vegetarian 
diet  and  Pletcherizing  I  had  eliminated 
fatigue  toxins  from  my  body." 

Talk  about  "the  doins"  and  about 
Pletcherizing  spread  through  the  village 
and  created  no  little  amusement  and 
scorn  among  those  whose  chewing 
is  confined  to  a  quid  of  tobacco.  They 
did  not  attend  Mr.  Fletcher's  lectures 
nor  read  his  books.  What  they  heard 
about  Pletcherizing  was  that  it  means 
prolonged  chewing,  and  their  imagina- 
tions supplied  the  information  as  to 
how  prolonged. 

"Eat  and  gi'  done  with  it",  was  the 
hired  man's  comment  on  Pletcherizing, 
and  his  views  represent  the  consensus  of 
bucolic  opinion.  "They  say  that  man 
Fletcher  talks  entertainingly  about  his 
theories  in  a  way  that  'ud  call  a  horse 
from  his  oats.  To  chew  so  long  any  one 
'ud  have  to  be  a  millionaire  t'  afford  the 
time.  Nobody  'ud  hire  a  man  t' 
work  for  him  who  minces  around 
when  he  eats.  The  man  that's  quick  t' 
eat  is  the  one  that's  quick  t'  work. 
You  watch  a  table  full  of  men  eatin'. 
Those  that  swaller  her  down  and  clean 


it  up  are  the  workers.  Of  course  I 
don't  believe  in  swallerin'  food  kuU 
nor  that  a  man  should  choke  himself 
t'  death  eatin'.  I'd  like  t'  take  that 
man  Pletcher  arotmd  and  show  him 
how  animals  eat.  If  you  see  'em 
takin'  a  little  dab  out  of  the  top  of 
the  heap  and  mindn'  and  lickin' 
around,  you  may  know  they  ain't 
no  good.  The  horse  that  at  the  first 
mouthful  bites  clear  to  the  bottom 
of  the  manger  and  swallers  it,  is  always 
a  big  strong  horse.  I've  seen  horses 
so  crazy  t'  git  t'  their  feed  that  they'd 
kick  the  side  of  the  stall  as  they  scooped 
up  a  mouthful  of  oats.  I  know  a  horse 
thirty  years  old  that  plants  his  feet 
on  the  cornstalks  I  feed  him  and  then 
from  the  way  he  makes  them  corn- 
stalks disappear  you'd  think  they  was 
goin'  down  a  cuttin'  machine". 

Some  of  the  waitresses  adopted 
Pletcherizing,  much  to  the  contempt 
of  the  cook.  Some  lessons  in  physical 
culture  they  took  were  the  last  straw 
for  her  patience,  and  she  told  them 
she  believed  "in  folks'  gittin'  physical 
culture  out  of  their  work". 


SPRING  BLOSSOMS,  JAPANESE  FASHION 


A  Fortnight  in  Berlin 

First  Impressions  of  Young  American  Tourists 

By  Mary  D.  Lindsay 


ONE  afternoon  in  early  July  four 
of  us,  American  girls,  arrived 
for  the  first  time  in  Berlin. 
Our  impression  as  we  passed  through 
the  suburbs  was  of  bright  cleanliness 
and  red  geraniums,  and  as  we  came  to 
know  the  city  better  in  the  days  that 
followed,  this  opinion  deepened.  Every- 
where are  broad  streets,  neat  white 
houses  and  well  kept  flower  beds. 
There  are  no  slums  in  Berlin,  the  people 
hide  their  poverty  under  a  smiling 
front,  for  the  government  so  orders  it. 

We  drove  at  once  to  our  pension  and 
there  were  introduced  into  a  strange 
world.  Up  to  the  fourth  story  we  went, 
and  in  a  long  dark  hall  met  the  stout 
and  tightly  laced  Frau.  She  beamed 
upon  us  and,  in  very  good  English,  bade 
us  welcome.  Her  servants,  however, 
spoke  no  English  and  we  had  to  adopt 
an  elaborate  system  of  signs  to  explain 
our  simplest  wants.  Even  the  bedroom 
furnishings  surprised  us.  They  were 
very  elegant  and,  as  we  soon  learned, 
very  unstable.  The  beds  were  covered 
with  what  appeared  to  be  lace  curtains, 
and  when  we  examined  the  bed  clothes 
underneath  we  discovered  that  they 
consisted  of  a  feather  mattress  stuffed 
in  a  huge  white  case.  On  a  cold  night 
this  covering  was  deliciously  warm, 
but  at  more  temperate  times  there  was 
no  happy  mean  possible  between  smoth- 
ering with  it  or  freezing  without  it. 
The  room  was  so  crowded  with  its  other 
furnishing  that  my  wardrobe  of  necessity 
stood  in  the  hall.  I  found,  to  my 
horror,  on  observing  it,  that  a  large 
artificial  palm  adorned  the  top.  As 
this  palm  shook  threateningly  whenever 
the  door  of  the  wardrobe  was  opened, 
my  discomfiture  may  be  imagined. 

With  high  hopes,  as  otu*  lunch  that 
day  had  been  light,  we  heard  the  gong 


for  supper.  The  dining-room  was  an- 
other revelation.  Down  the  long  tab'e 
ran  a  strip  of  gray  crepe  tissue  paper. 
On  this  a  lace  doily  reposed  and,  scattered 
at  equal  intervals,  stood  vases  of  bright- 
colored  everlasting  flowers.  Artificial 
smilax  woven  in  and  out  between  the 
vases  completed  the  effect.  Around 
this  table  were  seated  a  cosmopolitan 
group,  and  we,  it  seemed,  were  to  separate 
and  sit  among  them.  In  my  position 
between  a  smiling  Pole,  who  spoke  no 
English,  and  an  Englishwoman  who 
plainly  showed  her  disapproval  of  four 
girls  alone  in  Berlin,  I  looked  around 
for  the  others.  Jane  was  working  hard 
at  a  "ya*'and*'nein"  conversation  with 
an  ugly  little  Dutchman ;  Louise  beamed 
in  silence  upon  a  black  mustachioed 
charmer  from  Chili,  and  Bess,  between 
two  Germans,  sat  looking  around  at 
the  rest  of  us.  A  surreptitious  wink 
from  her  almost  upset  my  social  calm. 
After  the  meal,  which  was  distressingly 
meager,  with  its  queer  smoked  meats, 
raw  fish  and  sour  rye  bread,  we  re- 
paired to  the  drawing-room  for  tea  and 
conversation.  Here  three  of  us  man- 
aged to  draw  together,  and  from  the 
bulwark  of  each  other's  society  to  siu*- 
vey  Louise.  She  had  yielded  to  the 
charms  of  Chili  and  sat  on  a  settle 
near  him  as  he  played  the  latest  Ger- 
man ragtime.  Incautiously  she  leaned 
back  with  disastrous  results.  The  back 
of  the  settle  was  only  ornamental,  and, 
insulted  with  this  rude  treatment,  it 
came  down  with  a  crash. 

After  that  mishap  we  fled  and  went 
out  to  view  the  city  by  lamp  light. 
We  arrived  home  to  experience  another 
example  of  German  thrift.  The  porter 
retired  at  ten,  so  it  was  necessary  to 
walk  up  the  foiu-  flights.  By  pushing 
a  button  the  lowest  stairs  were  lighted 
753 


754 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


for  a  minute  and  then  plunged  in  dark- 
ness again.  In  that  minute  we  were 
supposed  to  dash  up  that  flight  and 
push  the  next  button,  and  so  on,  until 
worn  and  breathless  we  arrived  at  otir 
landing.  Even  in  the  day  time  we 
must  needs  walk  down,  for  the  porter 
could  not  be  bothered  to  come  up  for 
us.  And,  indeed,  we  found  this  custom 
true  in  even  the  department  stores 
of  Berlin.  One  rides  up  and  walks 
down. 

From  this  pension  we  sallied  forth 
every  day  to  see  the  city.  Our  trips 
to  the  American  Express  and  to  Cook's 
for  mail  led  us  along  the  Unter  den 
Linden,  that  beautiful  broad  avenue 
with  its  palaces  and  interesting  shops, 
each  of  which  from  its  advertisements 
is  the  principle  marketing  place  of  the 
Kaiser.  This  street  leads  down  to 
the  stately  archway  called  the  Brandon- 
burg  gate.  It  has  five  passageways, 
and  soldiers  stand  constantly,  on  guard 
at  the  central  one,  through  which  none 
but  the  Kaiser  may  pass.  This  gate 
opens  on  the  other  side  upon  an  avenue 
running,  perpendicular  to  Unter  den 
Linden,  into  the  Victoria  Platz.  In 
the  center  of  this  square  rises  a  huge 
coltimn  adorned  at  the  sunmiit  with  a 
flashing  bronze  victory.  Marble  statues 
of  many  of  the  generals  in  the  Franco- 
Prussian  War  stand  near  the  central 
column,  and  before  the  Reichstag,  which 
faces  the  platz,  rises  the  monument  of 
Bismark,  lord  of  all  he  surveys.  We 
often  crossed  this  square  on  our  way  to 
the  Thier  Garten  which  lies  just  across. 
This  Thier  Garten  is  a  great  park  and 
through  it  runs  the  avenue  of  Victory. 
On  either  side  of  the  broad  white  road 
the  monarchs  of  Prussia  and  Germany, 
in  white  marble,  stand  at  equal  intervals. 
The  brilliant  flower  beds  around  them, 
the  dark  trees  behind,  form  a  wonder- 
fully effective  setting  for  all  this  mag- 
nificence. If  you  leave  this  road  and 
wander  through  the  daisy-starred  grass 
under  the  beautiful  shade  trees,  you 
will  come  suddenly  upon  a  statue  of 


Goethe  or  Schiller  or  some  other  Germail 
poet,  and  in  one  spot  you  will  find  a 
sand  pile  with  many  little  children  play- 
ing merrily.  We  sat  down  to  watch 
the  lovely  scene  one  day,  and  were 
immediately  accosted  by  a  man  with 
a  ticket;  "No  thank  you,"  we  said,  "we 
do  not  care  for  any."  With  much 
gesticulating  he  managed  to  convey  to 
us  the  idea  that  one  must  buy  a  ticket 
before  he  can  sit  down.  This  offended 
our  sense  of  the  fitness  of  things  and 
we  rose  at  once. 

If  you  turn  in  the  other  direction 
along  the  Unter  den  Linden,you  pass  the 
Museum  of  Arms,  a  great  armory  of 
war  implements  dating  from  time  im- 
memorial, the  tmiversity  buildings  and 
the  Royal  Opera  House.  At  this  end 
the  street  widens  out  to  a  square,  around 
which  are  grouped  the  royal  palaces, 
the  Dom  and  art  galleries.  One  may 
visit  these  at  a  grice,  and  we  went  one 
day  to  the  Emperor's  winter  palace.  It 
is  an  enormous  affair  covering  a  whole 
block  in  itself.  We  donned  huge  carpet 
slippers,  that  our  feet  might  not  scratch 
the  royal  floor,  and  were  led  through  a 
small  portion  of  it.  The  guide  explained, 
in  German,  the  marvelous  sights  we 
saw.  Magnificence  of  gold  and  silver, 
velvet  hangings  and  frescoed  ceilings 
past  all  imagining,  it  was  far  too  gor- 
geous to  be  beautiful.  From  there  we 
crossed  the  street  to  a  building  only 
less  imposing,  the  royal  stables.  Here 
we  journeyed  past  miles  of  horses 
and  vehicles.  Each  prince  must  have 
his  own  carriage  for  every  occasion 
and  all  are  preserved  that  the  people 
may  observe  them.  So  there  are  in- 
numerable royal  baby  carriages,  dog 
carts  and  coaches.  The  royal  harnesses 
fill  yet  another  room.  We  were  rather 
surprised  to  see  but  few  royal  automo- 
biles. There  also  is  the  favorite  horse 
of  Frederick  the  Great,  stuffed;  he  has 
grown  seedy  with  age,  poor  thing,  and 
there,  too,  is  the  horse  of  the  Emperor 
William.  We  came  out  and  fled  to  the 
Dom,  where    seats    are   free.    This    is 


A  FORTNIGHT  IN  BERLIN 


755 


the  state  church,  quite  as  magnificent 
as  the  rest  of  Berlin;  all  the  apostles 
and  reformers  stand  in  niches,  and  the 
stained  glass  windows  show  symbolical 
figures  in  many  brilliant  colors.  Here, 
as  elsewhere,  the  best  pew  is  reserved 
for  the  Emperor.  To  the  side  of  the 
church  opens  a  chamber  containing  the 
tombs  of  former  rulers.  Certain  spaces 
lie  vacant  in  a  manner  that  must  seem 
but  too  suggestive  to  the  present  royal 
family.  Nearby  are  two  art  galleries. 
The  National  Museum  exhibits  picttires 
of  German  artists  only,  and  the  Kaiser 
Fredrich  has  a  fine  collection  of  paint- 
ings from  all  times  and  countries. 
Here  we  were  enraptured  with  our  first 
view  of  Raphaels,  Murillos,  Rembrandts 
and  Velasquez. 

As  we  went  about  we  gradually 
learned  the  small  tricks  of  the  town 
that  make  life  cheaper  and  easier;  that 
taxis  are  delightfully  inexpensive,  that 
motor-buses  cost  next  to  nothing,  if 
you  sit  on  the  wooden  seats  in  back 
instead  of  the  leather  cushions  farther 
front,  and  that  they  do  not  stop,  but 
you  must  nin  and  leap  on  them  as 
they  slow  down.  We  learned  to  buy 
"eis  chocolade*'  a  delicious  mixture 
of  chocolate  and  whipped  cream,  and 
that,  to  order  lemonade  aright,  we 
must  ask  for  lemonade  naturale  citrone. 
We  found  a  cheap  restaurant  on  Unter 
den  Linden,  and  learned  where  to  buy 
opera  tickets  for  less  than  fifty  cents. 
The  Royal  Opera  House  was  closed, 
but  the  Krol  Opera  produced  Wagner 
very  creditably.  One  is  required  by 
law  to  check  his  hat  and  coat  there, 
and  the  least  murmur  during  the  per- 
formance is  greeted  with  an  angry  hiss 
from  the  audience,  who  listen  with  true 
love  of  music  and  applaud  vociferously 
between  acts.  We  also  discovered  the 
charms  of  the  Ice  Palace  where  the  most 
graceful  dancing  imaginable  is  performed 
by  a  ballet  on  skates.  One  grows  ac- 
customed, too,  to  the  omnipresent  sol- 
diers. They  stand  guard  at  all  the 
palaces;  they  march  with  playing  bands 


past  one's  window  at  five  o'clock  in 
the  morning,  and  many  other  times  a 
day,  and  they  are  always  visible, 
singly  or  in  groups,  on  any  street  of 
the  city.  The  small  boys  of  Berlin, 
who  here  as  elsewhere  follow  a  brass 
band,  must  live  in  a  continuous  state 
of  excitement. 

We  went  one  Stmday  to  the  Zoological 
Gardens  to  see  the  animals  and  the 
people.  Everybody  was  there,  and  we 
sat  fascinated  watching  the  streams 
of  humanity.  Adorable  chubby  Ger- 
man children  came  in  great  numbers, — 
sweethearts  in  Sunday  best,  who  made 
love  quite  openly,  and  the  respectable 
aged  as  well.  All  sorts  of  costimies  pro- 
menaded past,  from  the  full-skirted 
French  bonne  to  the  latest  creation  in 
slimness  from  Paris.  At  simdown  there 
was  scarcely  a  vacant  seat  in  the  huge 
beer  garden,  adjoining.  The  crowd 
talked  and  laughed  and  listened  to  the 
two  bands,  which  took  ttuns  banging  out 
American  coon  songs  and  comic  opera. 
This  is  only  one  of  the  many  places  in 
Berlin  that  is  crowded  on  a  Sunday,  for 
that,  as  we  were  told,  is  the  general 
holiday  of  the  people  who  have  no  other 
play  time.  A  trip  up  the  Spree  River, 
one  other  day,  showed  us  literally  miles 
of  beer  gardens,  thousands  of  little 
tables  covered  with  neat  red  cloths, 
set  out  under  the  trees.  They  are  all 
packed  on  Sunday. 

We  took  two  trips  out  from  Berlin. 
One  day  we  did  what  every  one  else 
does,  went  to  Potsdam.  In  an  Ameri- 
can Express  Company  motor  you  ride 
for  twenty  miles  through  the  strange 
Grunewald  forest.  The  griass  tmder- 
neath  is  burnt  yellow  and  tall  straight 
pines,  whose  lower  branches  have  died, 
reach  up  like  brown  poles  to  the  top 
where  dark  pine  growth  casts  a  shade 
over  the  whole.  At  the  end  of  the  forest 
one  changes  to  a  motor  boat  and  glides 
over  a  channing  lake,  past  wooded 
shores  and  glistening  castle  towers,  to 
meet  the  motor  at  the  other  side  and 
ride  to  the  inn  at  Potsdam.    There  i^ 


756 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


delicious  dinner,  which  is  thrown  in 
with- the  rest  of  the  trip,  awaits  one,  and 
after  it  you  are  prepared  for  sightseeing. 
We  first  visited  the  old  church  that 
Frederick  the  Great  used  to  attend. 
It  is  hung  with  captured  battle  flags, 
which  doubtless  gives  great  satisfaction 
to  the  present  Emperor  when  he  comes 
to  worship  there.  In  this  church  Fred- 
erick lies  buried.  Napoleon  once  stood 
over  his  tomb  and  said  to  his  men :  **Take 
off  your  hats,  gentlemen,  if  he  had  been 
living,  I  should  never  have  been  here." 
Then  on  past  the  summer  palace  of 
the  Kaiser,  full  of  modern  magnificence, 
to  Sans  Souci,  the  home  of  Frederick. 
This  is  truly  a  beautiful  place.  The 
house  itself,  a  long,  one-storied  building, 
is  a  marvel  of  simple  elegance.  Two 
rooms  interested  us  especially,  the  li- 
brary lined  with  book  shelves  and  looking 
out  through  long  French  windows  on 
the  beautiful  terrace,  and  the  chamber 
of  Voltaire.  Frederick,  who  hated  him 
cordially,  yet  could  not  bear  to  part 
with  him,  had  it  especially  prepared  for 
a  surprise  when  Voltaire  was  away  on 
a  visit.  Monkeys  and  parrots  decorate 
the  walls  and  furnishings  and  point 
with  pleasant  satire  to  Voltaire's  talk- 
ativeness, his  vanity  and  ugliness.  In 
the  picture  galleries  we  noticed  that  the 
benches  were  particularly  narrow  and 
hard.  Frederick,  we  were  told,  had 
once  seen  a  lackey  asleep  on  a  settle 
and  had  had  these  made  uncomfortable 
on  purpose.  But  the  real  charm  of 
the  place  is  in  the  grounds.  There 
are  fountains  and  statues  near  the 
house,  and  to  one  side  a  raised  mound 
with  eleven  stone  slabs,  the  resting 
place  of  Frederick's  favorite  hounds, 
where  he  wished  to  be  buried  himself. 
To  the  front  of  the  house  stretch 
magnificent  terraces  copied  after  Ver- 
sailles. They  arc  kept  in  perfect  con- 
dition with  flower  beds  and  velvety 
lawns  and  nicely  clipped  boxwood,  and 
to  one  looking  down  from  the  house  to 
the  fountain  at  the  bottom  they  are 
a  delight  in  their  conventional  loveliness. 


On  our  other  trip  we  went  out  into 
the  real  country  to  a  little  place  called 
the  Spreewald.     It  is  a  very  low  fertile 
district  through  which  branches  of  the 
Spree    wind   and   interwind   for   many 
miles.     The  only  roads  are  the  water- 
ways and  the  people  who  hav'e  always 
lived  there  still  keep  the  old  peasant 
costume.     We  took  the  train  for  Lubbe- 
nan  and  walked  through  sunny  fields, 
abloom  with  onion  flov/er  and  the  bright 
blossom  of  the  red  bean,  to  the  little 
town.     It  is  a  quaint  old  cobble  stone 
village,  where  the  plaster  cottages  open 
directly  on  the  street  and  where  we  saw 
barefooted  women  spreading  great  piles 
of  onions  out  on  the  pavement  to  dr\\ 
At  the  landing  we  stepped  into  a  punt 
and    were    poled   along   all   day.     Our 
guide,  with  his  great  black  mustache, 
was  a  revolutionary  looking  individual, 
and,  indeed,  we  found  that  he  was  out 
of  the  good  graces  of  the  government. 
He  had  turned  Socialist  and  had  insulted 
his  superior  officer  in  the  Army,  so  his 
license  for  poling  had  been  taken  away 
and  he  requested  us  to  pay  him  unosten- 
tatiously that  he  might  not  be  fined. 
Down  a  long  staight  avenue  bordered 
with  willows  we  glided,  until  the  bend 
in  the  stream  brought  us  into  a  bright 
hay  field  where  forget-me-nots  grew  along 
the  bank.     We  turned  up  a  bypath  for 
pond    lilies    once.     Other    travelers    in 
their  punts  passed  us,  and  once  a  load 
of  bright  red  carrots  on  its  way  to  mar- 
ket floated  by.     Often  we  came  upon 
some  small  settlements,  a  few  houses 
with  flower  beds  around  them,  and  prejtty 
peasant  girls  bustling  about,  and  often 
our    stream   led    through    stretches   of 
shady    woodland.     Little    boys    pelted 
us  with  cornflowers  tied  in  nose  gays, 
and  scrambled  eagerly  for  our  pennies, 
and  once  the  idyllic  spell  was  broken 
Ijy  cheap  ragtime  ground  out  of  a  hurdy 
gurdy.     We    spent    the    whole   day  in 
this  i^caceful  manner. 

One  of  our  table  acquaintances  at 
the  pension  assured  us  that  we  had  not 
seen  the  real  Berlin.     **Go  along  Fried- 


WHAT  CONSTITUTES  A  GOOD  TABLE  ? 


757 


erich  Strasse  after  twelve,"  he  said. 
Friederich  Strasse  is  a  narrow  business 
street  always  crowded.  It  reaches  the 
whole  length  of  the  city.  **The  Ger- 
mans may  try  to  embrace  you  at  that 
hour,  but  sla[)  them  and  you  will  have 
no  trouble."  In  spite  of  the  fact  that 
we  were  American,  we  hesitated,  and 
left  Berlin  without  seeing  its  life. 
Characteristically  our  last  act  in  the 
city  was  to  quarrel  with  the  porter  over 
his  tip.     We  were  glad  we  had  seen  the 


great  clean  city  and  we  admired  its 
handsome  avenues  and  buildings.  But 
we  knew  that  the  government  was  over 
it  all,  that  it  ate  up  huge  taxes  in  all 
this  grandeur,  that  every  business  had 
to  report  to  it,  and  that  even  we,  insig- 
nificant as  we  were,  could  not  be  sick, 
or  leave  the  city  without  its  knowledge, 
and  this  feeling  irritated  us.  We  longed 
for  a  freer  air,  and  with  real  joy  boarded 
the  southbound  train,  and  yet  we  wished 
we  might  visit  Boston  again. 


Wanderlust 


"It's  joy-time  again,"  shouts  the  robin, 
The  dawn  is  a-throb  with  his  cheer. 
And,  in  the  ghid  hush  of  the  night-fall. 
Hear  the  hylas  chant,  far  and  near, 
Their  heart-stirring  chorus  of  welcome, 
To  herald  the  green  o'  the  year. 

"Come,  Lightfoot,"  the  low  winds  are  calling, 

"The  grass  is  of  emerald  sheen. 

Anemones  whiten  the  wood- ways. 

Frail  bluets  are  starring  the  green. 

And  the  'red-wings'  are  flashing  their  fire 

In  haunts  where  the  swamp  willows  lean." 


"Gay-tassclcd  are  poplar  and  alder. 

And  mellow  the  tint  of  the  sedge. 

The  fern:^  and  the  mosses  are  weaving 

Rare  beauty  by  brook-side  and  ledge, 

A  palpitant  joy  stirs  the  maples 

That  brightens  the  whole  woodland's  edge. 


»» 


"Come,  Lightfoot,  the  patteran  beckons. 
Come,  haste  while  the  morning  is  young. 
Where  pranking  the  trail  of  the  Maytime 
Your  gypsy-gay  blossoms  have  sprung. 
And  music  of  gypsy-glad  carols 
From  thicket  and  tree-top  is  sung." 

Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson 


What  Constitutes  a  Good  Table? 


By  Anna  Mitchell 


THE  answer  to  this  question  will 
vary  as  much  as  people  vary. 
What  is  one  man's  meat  is  another 
man*s  poison.  A  noted  divine  once 
said,  **We  judge  people  by  what  they 
can  and  what  they  cannot  do  without." 
It  may  seem  a  mundane  mcithod  by 
which  to  judge  character,  but  this  de- 
partment of  household  management 
certainly  does  throw  side  lights  on  the 
person  behind  the  scenes.  If  the  food 
is  simple,  well  cooked  and  well  served, 
we  know  that  there  is  sincerity  of  pur- 
pose behind  that  home;  but  if  the  bill 
of  fare  consists  of  pretentious  names  of 
dishes  that  are  intended  to  contain 
questionable  ingredients,  then  we  know 
that  a  p^ame  of  bhiff  is  being  attempted 


by  some  one.  If  a  person  of  intelli- 
gence is  obliged  to  accept  this  as  a 
steady  diet,  his  self-respect  will  event- 
ually become  impaired,  for  his  standards 
of  morality  must  necessarily  become 
lowered. 

There  are  conditions  that  hold  in  the 
average  boarding  house  and  the  second- 
class  restaurant.  A  story  is  told  of 
an  Irish  mechanic  who  changed  his 
boarding  house.  A  friend  he  had  known 
at  the  first  place  met  him  one  day  and 
said:  Well,  Pat,  how  do  you  like  the 
new  boarding  house?  I  hear  they  have 
napkins  there."  Napkins  *'be  blowed," 
replied  Pat,  **rd  rather  have  corned 
beef  and  cabbage."  It  is  evident  that 
Pat  preferred  food  to  service.     People 


758 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


who  are  sensitive  to  environment  will 
find  that  the  digestive  fluids  are  accel- 
erated or  retarded  by  the  way  food  is 
put  on  the  table.  A  brain  worker  has 
a  much  more  sensitive  digestion  than  a 
laboring  man;  hence  the  necessity  for 
him  that  table  appointments  shotdd  be 
made  attractive.  At  the  sight  of  dirty 
table  doth  or  badly  washed  dishes,  he, 
at  once,  feels  a  lack  of  appetite.  This 
is  caused  by  the  organs  that  supply  the 
digestive  fluids,  shutting  up  at  the  sight 
of  any  thing  repulsive  and  refusing  to 
work.  Hence  flowers,  bright  silver, 
and  dean  table  linen  are  necessary  ad- 
juncts to  the  table  of  a  brain  worker. 

The  French  have  acquired  an  envia- 
ble reputation  as  masters  of  the  culinary 
art.  Now  this  is  due,  first,  to  the  fact 
that  they  are  a  people  of  artistic  tem- 
perament, which  ensures  a  sense  of  the 
fitness  of  things ;  and,  secondly,  they  have 
a  great  capadty  for  details.  This,  added 
to  their  thrifty  ability  to  make  a  little 
go  a  great  way,  supplies  what  is  most 
essential  in  the  making  of  a  good  cook. 

The  Germans  and  the  English  are 
noted  for  thdr  thoroughness,  therefore 
deanliness  and  system  in  their  house- 
holds are  thdr  strong  points,  but  the 
ability  to  make  the  table  attractive  is 
essentially  a  French  prerogative.  It  is 
this  feature  of  French  life  that  appeals 
so  strongly  to  moneyed  Americans  who 
have  built  up  one  entire  section  of  Paris. 

But  we  are  not  concerned  about  those 
whose  leisure  and  money  enable  them  to 
seek  and  find  that  which  is  most  accept- 
able to  the  palate,  we  are  interested  in 
finding  some  way  by  which  the  best 
things  in  home  making  may  be  brought 
within  reach  of  the  great  mass  of  our  peo- 
ple who  must  of  necessity  stay  put.  If 
any  one  staying  in  Paris  shotdd  stroll 
along  the  section  of  the  dty  where  the 
public  markets  are  situated  about  eight 
o'dock  in  the  morning,  he  would  meet 
any  number  of  French  women  hturying 
home  with  a  twine  bag  in  their  arms. 
In  this  bag  are  the  vegetables  they  have 
just  purchased.    The  total  expenditure 


is  not  more  than  one  frank  (20  cents) 
and  it  has  covered  provisions  for  three 
meals.  There  will  probably  be  a  couple 
of  soups  made  from  the  contents  of  the 
bag,  besides  vegetables  served  in  solid 
form,  and  there  is  sure  to  be  parsley  for 
garniture.  A  little  further  on  we  will 
meet  the  baker's  man  canying  a  load 
of  crisp,  browned  bread  sticks  on  his 
shoulder.  The  French,  like  the  English, 
depend  entirely  on  the  public  bakery 
for  their  bread  supply.  They  are  very 
partial  to  French  small  cakes  of  which 
dessert  usually  consists,  with  the  addition 
of  fresh  fruit.  Unlike  the  English,  com- 
parativdy  little  tea  is  drunk. 

The  bigness  which  characterizes  every- 
thing in  this  country  leads  to  an 
extravagance  in  the  average  American 
table.  Estimating  dosely  on  food  sup- 
plies is  regarded  as  a  form  of  meanness. 
We  often  hear  of  help,  particularly  Irish 
hdp,  who  throw  up  good  places,  because 
they  think  the  mistress  calculates  more 
dosely  on  supplies  than  is  consistent 
with  what  they  have  h^ard  of  this  land 
of  plenty. 

The  Domestic  Sdence  Schools  are 
doing  much  toward  eradicating  these 
false  ideas.  A  great  deal  was  expected 
from  the  introduction  of  cooking  into  the 
public  schools,  some  years  ago,  but  it  is 
quite  doubtful  whether  the  results,  in 
practical  making  of  the  homes,  have 
justified   expectations. 

The  pupil,  in  many  cases,  takes  home 
modernized  methods  only  to  be  met  with 
strong  opposition  from  her  mother's  hard 
and  fast  habits,  which  she  is  not  inclined 
to  change  at  the  young  person's  dictum. 

How  many  old  housekeepers  sniff  at 
a  cookbook.  I  have  heard  them  say, 
**I  never  measure  anything,  I  just  use 
my  own  judgment."  Now  they  do  not 
advert  to  the  difficulty  of  transferring 
this  judgment,  acquired  by  long  years 
of  practice,  to  the  young  novice,  without 
the  assistance  of  rules.  Occasionally 
you  will  find  a  mother  of  rare  common 
sense,  who  will  see  the  necessity  of  train- 
ing her  daughter  early  in  systematic 


WHAT  CONSTITUTES  A  GOOD  TABLE? 


759 


maimer.  The  instructon  received  in  this 
way  is  the  most  valuable.  The  mother 
when  properly  equipped  is  the  best 
teacher  of  the  household  art, 

A  friend  of  mine,  who  is  very  particular 
about  her  table,  says  the  earliest  thing 
she  can  remember  her  mother  saying  is, 
"If  you  serve  only  bread  and  butter,  see 
that  it  is  put  on  the  table  in  an  appeti- 
zing manner. 

There  is  an  unsolved  problem  confront- 
ing people  who  are  obliged  to  board 
and  this  number  increases  as  the  various 
avenues  of  employment  for  women 
have  increased.  In  boarding  * 'there  are 
many  men  of  many  minds"  to  be  satis- 
fied. How  can  the  proper  average  of 
food  and  service  be  brought  about  at  a 
minimum  cost?  Three  wholesome, well 
cooked  dishes  are  better  than  six  lacking 
in  these  requirements.    We  have  become 


a  nation  of  dyspeptics,  because  we  eat  too 
many  different  things  and  thus  place 
on  the  digestive  organs  too  much  strain 
in   the   effort   to   assimilate. 

The  Public  Gjonnasium  and  the 
Public  Lectures  on  Hygiene  have  done 
much,  in  recent  years,  toward  educating 
the  public  in  the  best  way  to  avoid  the 
necessity  for  taking  drugs.  What  we 
need  now  are  free  lectures  on  dietetics, 
so  that  girls  who  are  about  to  assume 
the  responsibility  of  housekeepers  may 
learn  the  value  of  foods.  If  some  of  the 
time  now  given,  by  yotmg  matrons,  to 
bridge  could  be  conserved  and  directed 
to  a  systematic  study  of  cookery,  the 
beneficial  results  would  be  far  reaching. 
Fewer  people  who  can  keep  house  would 
take  refuge  in  the  boarding  house,  and 
who  shall  say  that  the  number  of  divorces 
would  not  be  lessened  thereby? 


The  Road 


There's   a   lusty    bluebird   singing,    where   the 

purplf  lilacs  sway. 
There  s  a  drift  of  apple  blossoms  where  the 

wanton  breezes  play: 
And  the    trilliums,   pale  beauties,  their  pearly 

censers  swing, — 
For  in  the  fragrant  forest  depths  they   hear  the 

voice  of  Spring. 

Here's  a  flash  of  gold  a-blow  in  the  young 
broom  trees, — 

Overhead  a  mist  of  green  courts  the  scented 
breeze. 

Come,  oh,  come  a-gypsying,  come  to  Spring- 
time's meet, — 

You  with  yearning  faces  leave  the  bustling 
city's  street. 

There's  a  blue-eyed  violet  peeping  through  a 
fern-embroidered  screen: — 

There's  a  turquoise  sky  above  us  raining  dew- 
drops  for  its  queen. 

April  weeps,  then,  with  a  sunbeam,  laughing 
dries  her  azure  eyes. 

And  a  knot  of  rainbow  ribbons  'midst  her 
golden  locks  she  ties. 

Here's  the  road  to  summer  days,  o'er  the  path 

of  Spring — 
Merry  May  is  just  ahead,  where  the  hawthornes 

swing. 
Who  this  maid  will  follow,  hasten  lagging  feet,  — 
Laugh,   and   flee  the  shadows,  dreary,   in  the 

city's  street. 

Agnes  Lockhart  Hughes 


Eliminating  Non-Essentials 


By  Eleanor  Robbins  Wilson 


EVERY  successful  housekeeper 
who  is  a  satisfaction  alike  to 
the  inmates  of  her*  household 
and  herself,  in  some  early  stage  of  the 
domestic  routine,  has  experienced  a 
great  sifting  process  and  thereby  con- 
clusively settled  the  perplexing  opera- 
tion of  separating  home-making  essen- 
tials from  non-essentials. 

While  each  home  is  a  law  unto  itself, 
and  each  home-keeper's  problems  are 
largely  individual,  all  share  the  common 
desire  for  the  best  mode  of  procedure 
in  dispatching  their  duties  and  crave 
the  common  reward  of  increased  free- 
dom. **A  wide  margin  of  leisure  is 
as  beautiful  in  a  man's  life  as  in  a 
book",  said  Thoreau.  Had  these  lines 
been  penned  during  the  last  decade, 
they  might  have  read,  —  ''A  wide 
margin  of  leisure  is  as  beautiful  in  a 
woman* s  life  as  in  a  book**;  and  the 
heartiest  feminine  "amens"  to  the 
sentiment  would  come  from  the  house- 
keeping contingent. 

How,  then,  are  we  to  attain  this 
desired  leisure? 

Only  by  becoming  efficient  workers 
and  managers.  To  be  the  first  means 
merely  living  up  to  Grandmother's 
adage,  *'make  your  head  save  your 
heels",  plus  the  intelligent  use  of 
twentieth  century  labor  saving  devices. 
To  be  the  second  means  mastering  the 
art  of  conserving  all  the  good  things 
which  contribute  to  the  artistic  and 
material  comfort  of  the  home.  Prom- 
inent among  these  good  things  are 
time,  money,  and  the  house  mother's 
health. 

Owing  to  the  fact  that  the  domestic 
woman  remains  at  home  while  the 
husband,  out  in  the  fray  of  business 
affairs,  is  continually  enlarging  his 
mental  horizon  through  new  view- 
points, it  often  happens  that  the  two 


grow  apart  and  are  more  widely  sep- 
arated in  later  years  than  when  they 
first  came  together.  It,  therefore, 
becomes  the  absolute  duty  of  each 
housewife  to  arrange  her  household 
affairs  so  that  each  day  she  may  be  able 
to  devote  some  definite  period,  however 
small,  to  the  broadening  of  her  interests. 
Prentice  Mulford  tells  us  that  it  is 
thinking  the  same  thoughts  that  ages 
us  most,  and  that  new  thought  is  new 
life.  So  brightening  otir  prosy,  house- 
hold planning  with  fresh,  recreative 
ideas  becomes  of  paramount  importance. 

The  only  short-cut  to  this  coveted 
leisure  lies  through  system.  In  other 
words,  it  means  an  intelligent  survey 
of  each  day's  necessary  duties,  classi- 
fying them  as  regards  relative  import- 
ance and  then  performing  them  with  a 
due  regard  to  sequence. 

I  know  of  no  more  profitable  under- 
taking for  the  average  housekeeper 
than  an  occasional  minute  criticism 
of  her  methods.  One  by  one,  let  her 
review  her  daily  duties  and  find  just 
where  her  waste  energ}''  is  going.  Each 
period  of  such  concentration  should 
bear  fruit.  And  it  is  only  by  apphdng 
improvement  that  we  can  hope  to  lift 
the  performing  of  common  household 
drudgery  to  the  dignity  of  a  science 
and  the  art  of  home-making  to  a 
profession. 

Not  long  ago,  an  acquaintance  of 
mine  wore  a  pedometer  dtu*ing  her 
morning  work  and  foimd,  in  an  incredibly 
short  space  of  time,  that  it  registered 
three  miles!  It  is  needless  to  add  that 
today  finds  her  eliminating  many  non- 
essentials and  the  proud  possessor  of 
some  worthwhile  labor-savers. 

So,  my  dear  homekeeper,  let  me 
repeat  the  admonition  to  face  your 
several  duties  and  try  to  lay  your 
finger    on    the    weakness    thereof.     It 


760 


ELIMINATING  NON-ESSENTIALS 


761 


you  are  making  yoiirself  foot-weary 
and  uncompanionable  through  unneces- 
sary steps,  canvas  the  question  thor- 
oughly and  see  how  it  may  be  avoided. 
Perhaps,  the  answer  lies  in  curtailing 
the  dusting  by  putting  away  super- 
flous  bric-a-brac,  silver,  fumittire,  etc., 
in  fact,  everything  that  does  not 
directly  contribute  to  the  comfort  or 
well-being  of  the  family.  Or,  may  be, 
a  separate  set  of  working  utensils  for 
the  upper  floor,  a  re-arrangement  of 
the  Idtchen  furniture,  or  simply  a 
large  tray  for  removing  dishes  from 
the  table  would  obviate  the  trouble. 
A  desirable  papier-mache  tray,  size 
22  X  16  inches,  sells  for  $1.25.  Its 
light  weight  and  cheapness  are  suffi- 
cient recommendation.  Perhaps,  you 
are  spending  a  disproportionate  length 
of  time  in  ironing.  During  the  hot 
months  there  are  many  times  when 
paper  doilies  may  be  substituted  for 
linen  ones.  These  come  in  both  round 
and  oval  patterns.  The  latter  shape 
placed  over  asbestos  mats  serve  admir- 
ably for  the  hot  dishes.  The  use  of 
paper  napkins  will  often  save  laundering 
damask,  and  there  are  many  occasions 
when  paper  toweling  answers  one's 
purposes  most  effectually. 

Many  young  mothers  are  simply 
martyrs  to  pride.  Babies  certainly 
do  look  adorable  in  white,  but  there 
are  innumerable  times  when  dark  frocks 
may  be  used  to  advantage  and  even 
when  rompers  should  take  the  place 
of  dresses.  In  the  choice  of  fabrics, 
too,  lies  another  means  of  time-saving. 
Seersucker,  Japanese  nets,  and  cotton 
crepes  require  no  ironing,  and  the 
latter  material  is  as  desirable  for 
undergarments  as  for  gowns,  and  is 
the  ideal  underwear  cotton  for  the 
home^abiding  as  well  as  the  traveling 
woman. 

Cooking  and  dish-washing  are  time- 
consimiers.  But  even  these  may  be 
simplified  and  performed  in  shorter 
periods  by  the  employment  of  proper 
culinary  implements,     Bre^d  £^nd  cake 


mixers  are  almost  indispensable,  paper- 
bag  cookery  has  its  welcome  niche, 
doing  away  with  the  washing  of  greasy 
pans,  and  the  fireless  cooker,  at  times, 
proves  itself  a  boon.  Doubtless  there 
is  no  more  valuable  help  for  the  cookery 
problem  than  the  study  of  nutritive 
food  values,  and  learning  to  serve  a 
dietary  appropriate  to  the  season. 
During  the  summer  months  we  shall 
gain  in  health  as  well  as  time  by  letting 
fresh  fruit  and  plain  ice  cream  take 
the  place  of  rich  puddings  and  pies, 
in  discarding  heavy  meats  and  gravies 
for  succulent  vegetables,  nut  and  egg 
dishes,  and  by  partaking  of  an  occas- 
ional picnic  luncheon  in  the  garden  or 
on  the  veranda.  The  use  of  paper 
plates  in  the  refrigerator  is  by  no 
means  a  small  help  in  the  lessening  of 
dish-washing.  Size  6x7  sell  at  $.40  a 
hundred,  while  those  measuring  8x9 
are  $.50  per  hundred. 

In  planning  her  moments  for  recrea- 
tion, the  efficient  housewife  has,  per- 
force, become  Janus-faced.  She  has 
learned  that  it  is  yesterday's  lack  of 
repairs  that  too  often  robs  tomorrow 
of  its  play-hour.  •  The  gap  in  the  screen 
that  keeps  her  swatting  flies,  the  refrac- 
tory damper  that  takes  extra  time  to 
coddle,  the  broken  spring  on  the  door 
that  necessitates  extra  steps,  the  clogged 
pipe,  etc.,  that  are  a  drain  on  both 
time  and  money,  cheat  her  of  the  mo- 
ments which  might  richly  be  used  in 
more  advantageous  directions.  In  the 
domestic  realm,  as  elsewhere,  it  is 
"trifles  that  build  the  tomb  of  great 
things." 

The  modem  housekeeper  has  no 
better  yardstick  for  measuring  the 
progress  of  her  domestic  ideals  than  a 
backward  glance  at  out- worn  methods; 
no  better  way  of  counting  her  riches 
than  enumerating  the  thousand  and 
one  golden  advantages  that  have  blos- 
somed in  the  place  of  her  fore-mpther's 
essentials. 

One  of  the  best  housekeepers  I 
know  is  a  woman  who  has  outgrown 


762 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


the  semi-annual  orgy  of  house-cleaning, 
and  her  shining  panes  and  fresh  window 
draperies  are  but  an  outward  adver- 
tisement of  the  indoor  cleanliness  and 
order.  This  house  is  an  average  home, 
but  the  smooth-running  of  its  domestic 
machinery  makes  it  unusual  in  many 
respects.  The  laundry  is  in  the  base- 
ment. On  the  first  floor  there  are  four 
rooms,  reception  hall  and  pantry;  on 
the  second  floor,  four  chambers  and 
bath.  The  maid's  room,  storeroom  and 
quarters  for  keeping  traveling  para- 
phernalia are  on  the  third.  It  is  this 
third  floor  that  differs  so  widely  from 
the  customary  attic,  inasmuch  as  the 
storeroom  harbors  not  outworn  cloth- 
ing, decrepit  house  fiunishings,  crippled 
furniture  or  files  of  old  papers  and 
magazines.  It  is  the  rule  of  this  house- 
hold that  nothing  useless  or  outgrown 
be  kept.  If  broken  furniture  is  worthy 
of  restoration,  it  is  immediately  repaired 
and  again  pressed  into  general  usage. 
If  it  seems  wise  to  discard  it,  it  is  either 
given  where  it  may  render  further 
service,  sold  to  the  junkman  or  sent  to 
the  chopping-block.  Magazines,  proving 
sufficiently  valuable,  are  bound  and 
added  to  the  family  library,  others 
are  sent  to  the  Salvation  Army  or  some 
place  where  they  will  be  equally  wel- 
come, while  all  cast-off  clothing  is 
charitably  passed  on.  Thus,  the  store 
room  is  an  orderly  apartment,  containing 
a  few  chests  and  a  number  of  neatly 
labeled  boxes  wherein  are  housed  the 
family  furs,  winter  clothing  and  bedding 
in  summer,  and  vice  versa. 

The  floors  are  of  hard  wood  through- 
out this  home.  From  week  to  week 
the  rugs  are  given  careftd  attention 
and,  at  regular  intervals,  like  the 
mattresses,  receive  a  thorough  sunning 
and  airing.  Light-weight  blankets  are 
laimdered  with  the  home  washing, 
while  heavier  ones  are  cleansed  by 
professional  cleaners.  Painting,  paper- 
ing, floor  polishing,  and  general  repairing 
are  done  at  opportime  moments  and 
draperies  are  laundered  as  frequently 


as  necessary.  Thus  the  old-time  cyclonic 
upheavals,  dignified  as  Spring  and 
Autunm  housecleaning,  are  unknown 
disturbances  in  this  ever-attractive 
abode. 

All  hail  to  the  modem  domestic 
science  that  is  teaching  the  habit- 
bound  housewife  the  value  of  eflS- 
ciency  —  that  intelligently  directed  en- 
deavor in  the  home  plays  a  colossal 
part  in  making  the  world  over  into  a 
more  satisfactory  dwelling  place!  It 
is  an  occupation  of  the  most  compre- 
hensive scope,  and  we  cannot  separate 
it  from,  any  of  the  interests  which 
enter  people's  lives. 

We  read  much  in  present  day  jour- 
nals tending  to  show  that  up-to-date 
women  can  not  afford  to  waste  either 
time  or  money  in  doing  housework. 
Housework,  they  tell  us,  we  shall  get 
rid  of  by  gradual  socialization.  One 
after  another  we  shall  turn  over  the 
various  branches  of  home  work  — 
cleaning,  sweeping,  bed-making,  cook- 
ing, etc.,  to  business  organizations. 
We  shall  then  be  free  to  throw  the 
weight  of  our  intelligence  and  support 
into  the  larger  civic  housekeeping, — to 
raise  the  standard  of  health,  schools 
and  roads  in  our  respective  commimi- 
ties.  But  the  question  arises,  would 
this  greater  freedom  from  household 
duties  build  entirely  for  social  uplift? 

I  believe  that  the  rank  and  file  of 
American  housewives  are  less  ambitious. 
They  are  content,  as  yet,  just  to  lift 
their  household  operations  to  a  business 
basis,  to  have  the  tools  of  their  craft, 
and  to  know  how  to  use  them  effi- 
ciently,— which,  in  other  words,  spells 
a  small  margin  of  leisure. 

While  few  of  us  can  attain  to  the 
idealism  of  Hamlet's  words,  "There 
is  nothing  either  good  or  bad  but 
thinking  makes  it  so",  we  know  the 
mental  attitude  which  we  bring  to  our 
labors  has  much  to  do  with  the  quality 
of  our  work  and,  indirectly,  in  the  effect 
of  our  work  upon  us.  Home-making 
to  countless  women  is  still  a  labor  of 


A  SQUARE  DEAL  FOR  THE  MILK  BOTTLE 


763 


love  and  robbing  the  home  of  its 
industry  would  be  like  removing  its 
very  heart.  A  home  divorced  of  its 
industry  must  lieeds  forfeit  much  of 
its  individuality  and  atmosphere  — 
two  of  its  most  precious  possessions  — 
to  take  in  the  commonplaces  of  the 
public  hostelry.  Is  not  privacy  one 
of  the  most  hallowed  features  of  our 
homes? 

To  me,  prevailing  conditions  seem 
rather  to  call  for  a  firmer  grounding 
in  household  economics,  which  is  pro- 
ductive of  inventiveness.  And  inven- 
tiveness, as  we  all  know,  leads  to  better 
and  quicker  ways  of  doing  things.  It 
develops  a  finer  discernment  of  essentials 
and    non-essentials,    and    alertness    of 


vision  wherein  we  learn  **to  keep  the 
eye  single"  to  the  proper  valuation 
of  comfort.  For  the  crown  of  home- 
making  is  happy  living.  Therefore, 
the  solution  of  the  problem  lies  not  in 
wholly  shedding  household  tasks,  but 
in  discovering  such  elimination  of  non- 
essentials as  is  practicable. 

We  grumble  much  about  being  bound 
to  the  wheel  of  complex  living,  when, 
in  reality,  we  are  frequently  only 
tethered  by  trifles.  Let  us  begin  today 
to  ascertain  the  true  essentials  of  home- 
keeping  and  into  the  limbo  of  dis- 
carded things  we  shall  not  only  toss 
many  inferior  methods,  but  much  of 
our  false  pride,  our  pseudo-hospitality 
and  our  slavery  to  * 'appearances**. 


A  Square  Deal  for  the  Milk  Bottle 

By  Alice  E.  Whitaker 


WHEN  bu)dng  milk  do  not  hunt 
for  bargains.  Find  a  reput- 
able dealer,  ask  for  proof  that 
his  milk  is  of  low  bacterial  count  and 
then  be  willing  to  pay  a  reasonable 
price.  In  any  city  and  in  many  large 
towns,  it  is  possible  to  go  to  the  office 
of  the  Board  of  Health  and  see  the 
score  card  of  your  milk  man;  this  will 
help  you  to  judge  of  the  quality  of  his 
milk. 

In  cities,  it  is  scarcely  possible  to  buy 
good  milk  at  less  than  ten  cents  a 
quart  and  special  milk  for  babies  is 
often  twelve  and  fifteen  cents  a  quart 
and  is  well  worth  the  price.  Remember 
that  this  milk  is  safer  than  the  tra- 
ditional **milk  from  one  cow"  that  our 
mothers  were  so  anxious  to  get  for 
their  little  ones. 

Housewives,  who  can  remember  the 
tin  cans  used  some  years  ago,  now  realize 
the  advantage  of  the  glass  bottles  which 
show  the  amount  of  cream  and,  what 
is  yet  more  important,  they  disclose 
any  dirt  which  always  means  danger. 


No  matter  of  whom  you  buy  milk,  it 
is  wise  occasionally  to  lift  the  bottle 
high  enough  to  look  straight  up  at  the 
bottom  of  it.  If  there  is  the  slightest 
sediment  or  discoloration,  make  com- 
plaint at  once.  Make  this  examination 
yourself,  for  when  asked  about  it  the 
milk  man,  if  dishonest,  may  give  the 
bottle  a  sly  shake  and  deftly  hold  it  in 
the  air  for  a  second  to  prove  that  there 
is  no  sediment  visible. 

In  1630,  when  John  Cotton  is  credited 
with  sa)dng  that  nothing  was  cheap 
in  the  Colonies  but  milk  and  ministers, 
it  is  recorded  that  milk  was  but  a 
penny  a  quart  in  Salem,  Massachu- 
setts. At  that  rate,  it  probably  mattered 
little  if  a  half  pint  was  wasted  now  and 
then,  or  if  two  or  three  quarts  turned 
thick  and  was  given  to  fowls  or  pigs. 
Today  the  situation  is  altogether  differ- 
ent. The  housewife  considers  carefully 
whether  she  shall  take  a  pint  or  a  quart 
and,  at  ten  cents  a  quart,  she  is  care- 
ful that  none  goes  to  waste.  When 
water  will  answer  the  purpose  as  well 


764 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


in  cooking,  she  makes  it  take  the  place 
of  milk. 

Milk  should  have  at  least  thirteen 
per  cent  of  solids,  but  there  is  too  much 
fear  of  dilution  by  water  and  too 
little  attention  paid  to  other  dangers 
to  its  quality  that  may  come  from  the 
kitchen.  The  producer  of  the  milk 
and  the  man  who  handles  it  for  market 
may  have  taken  care  to  have  it  of  gilt- 
edge  quality,  yet  the  woman  in  the 
kitchen  can  undo  all  their  work  in  a 
very  few  minutes,  for  kitchen  sanita- 
tion is  yet  in  the  elementary  stage. 

When  the  milk  bottle,  taken  from  the 
back  or  front  steps,  is  carried  directly 
to  the  pantry  or  refrigerator,  stop  and 
think  what  may  have  happened.  The 
prowling  cat,  looking  at  the  cream 
through  the  glass,  sometimes  laps  the 
top  of  the  bottle  hoping  for  a  stray 
drop.  The  bottle  that  stands  for  two 
or  three  hotirs  between  the  milk  man's 
early  call  and  your  breakfast  time 
gathers  a  coating  of  dust,  although  it 
may  not  be  noticeable.  If  the  top  of 
the  bottle  is  not  wiped  off,  this  dust  or 
other  contamination  is  washed  into 
the  milk  as  it  is  poured  from  the  bottle ; 
therefore,  it  is  better  to  wipe  off  the 
rim  or  neck  of  the  bottle  with  a  wet 
cloth  as  soon  as  the  milk  is  brought 
into  the  house. 


While  milk  should  be  kept  cold  and 
in  the  bottle,  replacing  the  little  cap 
at  once  after  any  is  poured  out,  man>' 
housekeepers  hasten  to  empty  it  into 
a  pitcher  before  it  is  set  into  the  refrig- 
erator. Perhaps  the  pitcher  was  wiped 
with  a  dish  towel,  instead  of  being 
scalded  and  inverted;  possibly,  after 
filling  with  milk,  it  is  left  standing 
on  the  kitchen  table  for  an  hour  or  so, 
in  spite  of  the  fact  that  exposure  in  a 
warm  place  is  certain  to  be  followed  b}' 
development  of  harmful  bacteria. 

When  the  last  of  the  milk  is  used, 
the  bottle  should  be  washed  and  not 
allowed  to  stand  about  the  kitchen,  to 
be  taken  hurriedly  to  hold  tea  and 
coffee  or  perhaps  acid  or  greasy  liquids. 
It  is  true  that  at  the  milk  stations, 
or  where  the  milk  is  bottled,  the  bottles 
are  washed  and  sterilized,  yet  they 
should  always  be  kept  for  their  la\s^ul 
purpose  of  holding  milk. 

Put  bottles  out  each  day.  It  is  a 
common  fault  of  both  mistress  and 
maid  to  allow  from  three  to  even  seven 
or  eight  bottles  to  acctmiulate  before 
they  are  set  out.  This  increases  the 
work  of  the  milkman  even  to  the 
point  of  making  an  extra  trip  for  col- 
lecting what  could  be  handled  easily 
in  the  morning's  delivery,  if  the  bottles 
were  returned  systematically  each  day. 


Arcady 


Know  you  the  wonder-land  that  smiling  lies 
Just  on  beyond  the  turning  of  the  way. 
Where  every  mead  is  blossom-pied,  and  skies 
Are  bluer  than  the  depths  where  salt   waves 

play? 
Know  you  that  fair  land  dreaming  in  the  sun? 
Tis  there  old  Pan  his  reed-born  magic  blows, 
In  some  dim  glen  where  murmuring  waters  run 
And  where  each  listeninp^  leaf  its  emerald  throws. 
This  is  the  realm  of  visions  and  of  song. 
Beyond  the  world's  pain-laden  thoroughfare, 
Sweet  as  the  fancies  to  young  lovers  born; 
Nor  is  the  sunset's  pearl  and  rose  more  fair. 
Ah,  sweetheart;  wander  hand  in  hand  with  me 
I'orever  down  the  vales  of  Arcady^! 

R.  R.  Gref.nwoop 


Polly's  Course  in  Designing 


By  Elsie  Spicer  Eells 


I 


DO  believe  that  is  the  school 
teacher  coining  up  the  hill," 
said  Mrs.  MacDougall  as  she 
looked  up  from  the  doughnuts  she 
was  frying.  **ril  just  have  time  to 
finish  these  doughnuts  and  put  on  a 
clean  apron  before  she  gets  here.  I 
wonder  if  it  is  John  or  Joe  who  has 
been  getting  into  a  scrape."  Mrs. 
MacDougal  had  never  been  favored 
with  a  visit  from  the  school  teacher 
when  some  of  her  brood  had  not  been 
transgressing. 

"I  came  to  talk  with  you  about  your 
daughter,  Polly,"  said  the  teacher  as 
she  struggled  to  regain  her  breath  after 
the  long  climb  up  the  hill  to  the  Mac- 
Dougall farm.  "Polly!"  exclaimed  her 
mother  in  amazement!  **What  has 
Polly  been  doing?  I  thought  that,  of 
course,  it  was  one  of  the  boys  who  had 
been  up  to  some  mischief."  The 
teacher  explained  smilingly  that  it  was 
not  a  misdemeanor  this  time  which 
had  prompted  her  visit.  Polly  Mac- 
Dougall was  .the  most  artistic  child  it 
had  ever  been  the  teacher's  privilege 
to  instruct.  **I  hope,"  said  she,  "that 
you  will  see  to  it  that  Polly  has  the 
opportunity  to  cultivate  her  talents." 

Mrs.  MacDougall,  busy  mother  of 
seven  that  she  was,  did  not  forget  the 
teacher's  words  as  the  years  went  by. 
The  boys  left  school  early,  but  Polly 
was  allowed  to  go  to  the  high  school 
in  the  neighboring  town.  Mr.  Mac- 
Dougall, however,  had  his  own  ideas 
about  Polly's  High  School  course.  His 
brother's  daughter  in  the  city  was 
earning  w^hat  seemed  to  Mr.  MacDougall 
a  fabulous  sum  as  a  stenographer.  He 
asjjired  to  have  Polly  do  likewise  and 
his  brother  had  told  him  that  a  steno- 
grapher who  was  a  High  School  grad- 
uate secured  a  better  position  than  one 
who  was  not. 


"Will  you  have  to  be  a  stenographer 
after  all?"  asked  Polly's  art  teacher, 
to  whom  she  had  confided  her  aspira- 
tions and  fears.  Polly  had  only  one 
year  more  in  High  School  and  there 
was  a  course  in  designing  at  the  Insti- 
tute in  the  city  upon  which  she  had 
set  her  heart.  It  was  a  very  modest 
little  dream,  for  it  was  a  one  year's 
course.  Polly  knew  that  course  would 
enable  her  to  earn  enough  money  to 
carry  her  on  to  further  heights.  The 
most  tantalizing  thing  about  it  was 
that  it  would  cost  only  a  little  more 
than  the  course  in  stenography  which 
her  father  wished  her  to  take.  "I 
think  mother  sympathizes  with  me," 
Polly  said,  "but  father's  heart  is  so 
completely  set  on  the  stenography 
that  I'm  afraid  there  is  no  other  way." 

The  idea  of  the  "other  way"  pre- 
sented itself  to  Polly  one  Saturday, 
when  she  accompanied  her  mother  on 
a  rare  trip  to  the  city  to  do  some  shop- 
ping. They  passed  a"  wonderful  shop 
window  where  "steamer  baskets"  full 
of  fruit  were  displayed.  Polly's  artistic 
eye  saw  ways  of  arranging  the  fruit 
even  more  attractively  and  her  nimble 
fingers  longed  to  try.  Polly  was  very 
quiet  on  the  way  home.  At  last,  she 
said,  "Mother,  why  couldn't  I  arrange 
farm  baskets  for  Thanksgiving  and 
Christmas  gifts?  I  wonder  if  the  stores 
that  sell  steamer  baskets  wouldn't 
let  me  display  some  baskets,  just  to 
see  if  they  wouldn't  sell."  Mrs.  Mac- 
Dougall saw  no  objection  to  the  plan 
and  the  art  teacher  was  very  enthu- 
siastic about  it,  when  Polly  talked 
the  idea  over  with  her.  She  volunteered 
to  go  with  Polly  to  make  arrangements 
at  the  shops. 

Thanks  to  the  art  teacher's  persua- 
sive eloquence  and  Polly's  eager  eyes, 
(Continued  on  page  802) 


765 


766 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


THE 

BOSTON    COOKING-SCHOOL 

MAGAZINE 

OF 

Culinary  Science  and  Domestic  Economics 

Subscription  $1.00  per  Year  Single  Copies,  10c 
Foreign  Postage  :  To  Canada,  20c  per  Year 
To  OTHER  Foreign  Countries,  40c  per  Year 

TO  SUBSCRIBERS 

The  date  stamped  on  the  wrapper  is  the  date 
on  which  your  subscription  expires;  it  is,  also,  an 
acknowledgment  that  a  subscription,  or  a  renewal 
of  the  same,  has-been  received. 

Please  renew  on  receipt  of  the  colored  blank 
enclosed  for  this  purpose. 

In  sending  notice  to  renew  a  subscription  or 
change  of  address,  please  g^ve  the  old  address 
as  well  as  the  new. 

In  referring  to  an  original  entry,  we  must  know 
the  name  as  it  was  formerly  given,  together  with 
the  Post-office,  County,  Sute,  Post-office  Box, 
or  Street  Number. 


Statement  •/  ownership  and  managtmunt  mt  rtqtiirtd  by 
tkt  Act  •/  C0Hgr*»M  0/A9i£Mtt  94,  I9ta. 

Editor  \  Janet  M.  Hill. 
Fusiness  Managers:  R.  B.  Hill^  B.  M.  Hill. 

Owners : 

B.  M.  Hill,  Janet  M.  Hill,  R.  B.  Hill. 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

published  ten  times  a  year  by 

The  Boston  Cooking- School  Magazine  Co., 

372  Boylston  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

Bntkkkd  at  Bo<n-oK  Post-offick  as  Ssoohd-clam  Mattsk 


'^Economics  changes  man's  activities. 
As  you  change  a  man's  activities  you 
change  his  way  of  living,  and  as  you 
change  his  environment  you  change  his 
state  of  mind.  Precept  and  injunction 
do  not  preceptibly  affect  men;  but  food, 
water,  air,  clothing,  shelter,  pictures, 
books,  music,  will  and  do  affect  them." 

**He  who  makes  war  on  business 
removes  the  roof  from  homes,  takes  the 
bread  from  mouths,  leaves  htmian  bodies 
naked  to  the  storm  —  replaces  confi- 
dence with  fear,  hope  with  dread,  love 
with  hate  —  and  robs  men  of  their 
right  to  work." 


WOMAN'S  PROBLEMS 

THE  franchise  for  women  in  the 
United  States  is  coming.  That  it 
has  not  been  granted  more  speedily  is 
a  matter  of  surprise,  for,  in  general,  the 
men  of  this  coiintry  are  inclined  to 
give  their  women  whatever  they  ask 
for,  we  might  say,  everything  they  take 
a  fancy  to.  In  some  states,  what  is 
called  machine  politics  is  largely  at 
fault,  for  the  continued  rebuff  of  peti- 
tions for  woman  suffrage;  in  other 
states  —  notably  Massachusetts  —  the 
spirit  of  conservatism,  which  has  fas- 
tened itself  on  both  men  and  women  is 
cause  of  the  backwardness  in  accepting 
or  adopting  this  destined  reform. 

But  with  the  possession  of  the  ballot, 
not  all  of  woman's  problems  will  be 
solved ;  suffrage  for  women  will  not  usher 
in  a  millennium  of  peace  and  leisure. 
Housework  and  housekeeping  must  go 
on  just  the  same,  and  yet  time  be  found 
to  aid  in  the  conduct  of  affairs  of  town 
and  state.  Women  of  means,  whose 
children  have  already  been  placed  in 
life,  may  find  pleasure  and  profit  to 
themselves  and  in  a  measure  be  useful 
to  the  state  by  entering  upon  these 
larger  fields  of  activity.  But  how  about 
the  wife  of  the  young  man  and  the  pro- 
fessional man  with  salaries  of  less  than 
two  thousand  dollars  a  year? 

To  get  rid  of  the  drudgery  of  house- 
work is  the  cry  of  many  women  to-day. 
Is  not  the  teaching  of  children  as  mon- 
otonous as  housework  ?  Does  not  teach- 
ing keep  both  the  men  and  women 
engaged  in  it  as  tied  down  and  tmable 
to  take  part  in  the  things  that  are  thought 
to  give  a  broader  view  of  life  as  does 
housekeeping  or  homemaking  f 

There  is  one  phase  of  this  revolt  from 
the  kitchen  that  has  not  yet  been 
fully  presented;  it  is  well  known  that 
bread,  meat,  delicatessen  supplies,  etc., 
provided  from  outside  of  the  home, 
cost  about  twice  as  much  as  the  same 
items  prepared  in  the  home,  and,  at 
the  same  time,  the  former  are  rarely 


feDitORIALS 


767 


^qual  to  the  latter  in  nutritive  value 
and  flavor.  How  is  this  discrepancy  to 
be  made  good  ?  More  families  are  living 
on  two  thousand  dollars  per  year  or 
less  than  on  incomes  above  that  figure. 
Not  every  young  woman  can  earn  the 
difference  in  cost  of  food  cooked  at 
home  and  cooked  food  bought  outside 
the  home. 

French  women,  it  is  said,  take  hold 
enthusiastically  and  become  co-workers 
with  their  husbands  in  the  conduct  of 
their  business,  knowing  full  well  that 
CO  partnership  is  needful  to  support 
a  family.  The  time  is  rapidly  approach- 
ing in  this  country,  even  if  it  be  not 
already  here,  when  women  in  some 
way  must  help  either  in  keeping  down 
the  expenses  of  the  household  or  in 
adding  to  the  income  of  the  family. 
Natural  fitness  should  decide  which 
procedtu'e  is  best  adatped  to  each 
individual  case.  And,  besides,  the  time 
has  not  come  when  all  women  are 
desirous  of  throwing  overboard  the 
responsibilities  of  individual  home-mak- 
ing. J.  M.  H. 

AESOP  ON  EATING 

MR.  AESOP,  owing  to  the  pecu- 
liar ,  form  which  he  gave  his 
yams,  is  usually  thought  of  as  the 
George  Ade  of  ancient  Greece,  we 
believe.  One  of  his  fables  —that  one 
about  the  attempt  of  the  members  to 
freeze  out  the  stomach  —ranks  him, 
in  the  mind  of  the  dietitian,  at  least,  as 
the  Horace  Fletcher  of  Doric  days. 
You  know  —  the  hands  and  mouth  and 
the  teeth  one  day  had  the  primeval 
equivalent  of  a  htmch  that  the  stomach, 
while  it  got  all  the  food,  yet  did  none  of 
the  work.  An  equitable  distribution  of 
labor :  that  was  what  they  wanted,  and 
wanted  quick.  It  is  not  told  that  they 
took  the  time  to  suggest  a  get-together 
conference  with  an  eighteen-course  ban- 
quet, or  that  they  even  suggested  a  com- 
promise. What  they  did  was  to  cut  off 
forthwith  the  enemy's  food-supply. 
The  hands   agreed   to   carry   no   more 


food  to  the  mouth,  the  mouth  to  receive 
none,  and  the  teeth  to  chew  none  — 
which  action  of  the  teeth  showed  no 
daring  originality,  it  seems  to  us,  in 
view  of  the  resolution  already  taken  by 
the  hands  and  the  mouth.  The  inevit- 
able happened.  The  members  were 
soon  overwhelmed  with  fatigue;  the 
hands  felt  like  a  ton  of  fabulous  brick, 
and  the  mouth  became  parched  and 
dry  and  the  legs  wobbly.  A  council  of 
work  was  held  and  the  strikers  voted 
to  return  to  their  jobs,  freely  admitting 
that  the  stomach  in  a  modest  way  had 
been  keeping  up  its  end,  and  that  in 
co-ordination  of  all  the  members  of  the 
body  alone  is  there  strength. 

There,  we  submit,  is  a  good  fable. 
It  points  the  larger  lesson  of  co-operation 
and  getting  down  to  practical  hygiene 
shows  the  inter-relation  of  the  various 
digestive  functions.  We  cannot  speak 
for  Aesop's  subscribers,  but  certainly 
many  men  and  women  of  to-day  have 
yet  to  learn  that  the  stomach  is  not 
placed  in  the  system  for  ormanental 
purposes;  that  it  has  very  vital  work  to 
do;  and,  above  all,  that  conditions  must 
be  favorable,  if  it  is  to  be  efficient  work. 
The  usefulness  of  the  hands  and  of  the 
mouth  and  teeth  in  feeding  most  people 
take  for  granted  and  let*  the  matter 
stop  there,  when,  as  a  matter  of  fact, 
the  work  of  digestion  has  scarcely 
begun.  The  teeth  have  chewed  the  food 
(if  one  is  a  fletcherizer)  and  the  saliva 
has  mixed  with  it  a  substance  or 
**enzyme"  called  "ptyalin",  which 
changes  the  starchy  portion  of  the  food 
into  dextrine  and  maltose,  the  only 
forms  in  which  the  system  can  assimilate 
starch.  In  the  stomach  there  takes 
place  the  equally  important  work  of 
digestion  of  the  nitrogenous  part  of  the 
meal  —  such  foods  as  lean  meat,  beans, 
peas,  cheese,  eggs  and  most  nuts. 

And  yet  we  think  the  stomach  has 
nothing  to  do !  A  fair  amount  of  nitro- 
genous food  it  could  get  away  with,  but 
three  meals  of  the  ordinary  sort,  it  has 
been  found  by  careftd  experiment,  give 


768 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZlNfi 


the  stomach  twice  the  amount  of  work 
it  was  meant  to  do.  The  result?  — 
Huge  amounts  of  food  leave  the  stomach 
in  an  undigested  state  and  rot  (by  all 
means,  let  us  be  Anglo-Saxon  where 
possible)  in  the  intestine,  giving  off 
poisons  that  are  carried  by  the  blood- 
stream to  every  part  of  the  body  for 
the  crippling  of  muscles  and  nerves. 
Conmion  results  of  -these  poisons  are 
headaches  and  biliousness,  for  which 
we  usually  blame  the  poor,  overworked 
stomach,  which  itself  has  been  seriously 
affected  by  the  poisonous  processes. 

Thus  we  see  how  the  stomach  is  at 
the  mercy  of  a  perverted  appetite,  and 
how  important  is  good  team-work  be- 
tween the  stomach,  on  the  one  hand, 
and  the  selection  of  food,  both  as  to 
amotuit  of  nitrogen  present  and  to  quan- 
tity, on  the  other. 

Pure  foods,  for  which  we  are  fighting 
so  valiantly  to-day,  also  play  an  impor- 
tant role  in  stomach  digestion,  for 
poisons  taken  into  the  system  in  impure 
foodsare  quite  as  vicious  as  the  poisons 
formed  in  the  intestine  from  too  much 
food. 

Fiuther  team-work  should  exist  between 
the  mind  and  the  stomach.  One  does 
not  need  to  be  a  psychotherapist  to 
believe  in  the  influence  of  mental  states 
upon  digestion.  Professor  Pawlow  of 
St.  Petersburg,  experimenting  upon  dogs 
fotmd  that,  when  the  animals  were 
annoyed,  the  flow  of  gastric  juice  ceased, 
while  when  they  were  in  a  playful  mood, 
the  gastric  juice  flowed  in  abundance. 
Music,  it  was  shown,  especially  stimu- 
lates the  flow  of  the  juice,  so  that  even 
the  cabaret  might  be  made  to  assist  a 
recreant  digestion. 

Again,  the  stomach  shares  the  general 
tone  of  the  system.  If  the  body  is 
tuned  up  to  concert  pitch,  so  that  it 
rings  true  and  responds  readily  to  the 
demands  made  upon  it,  the  stomach, 
other  things  being  equal,  will  be  found 
working   efficiently.     If,   on   the   other 


hand,  the  system  is  all  nm  down  the 
chances  are  the  stomach  will  be  doing 
the  work  of  half  a  stomach.  For  this, 
if  for  no  other  reason,  exercise  is  impor- 
that  —  especially  outdoor  exercise,  — 
also  deep  breathing,  fresh-air  sleeping, 
plenty  (but  not  too  much)  sleep,  just 
enough  food  of  the  right  kind,  and  whole- 
some, cheerful  thoughts.  These  are 
simple  things  that  keep  us  keyed  up  for 
strenuous  living,  the  stomach  no  less 
than  the  rest  of  the  body.         x.  c.  o'd. 


SPRING 


There's  a  glinting  of  blue,  there's  a  sprinkle  of 
gold. 
There's  a  haze  in  the  skies  over  head. 
There's  a  budding  of  leaf,  there's  a  stirring  of 
life 
In  the  heart  of  the  hyacinth  bed. 
From  the  maple  a  voice  from  the  willow  a  sign. 

From  the  marshes  soft  odors  that  bring 
To  the  eyes  that  can  see,  to  the  ears  that  can 
hear. 
The  news  of  the  coming  of  Spring. 

There's  a  voice  in  the  breeze,  there's  a  sign  in 
the  sun. 
That  whispers  of  Winter's  farewell; 
There's  a  mist  o'er  the  lake,  there's  the  call  of 
a  bird. 
There's  the  echoing  tones  of  a  bell. 
There's  a  song  in  my  heart  though  my  hands 
to  their  task. 
The  task  of  the  winter  must  cling. 
And  my  soul  makes  reply  to  earth,  ocean  and 
sky. 
A  welcome  —  a  welcome  to  Spring! 

1.  M.  T. 


Below  is  a  copy  of  our  New  Title, 
just  as  it  will  appear  on  the  Cover 
page  of  our  June  and  July  issue.  With 
that  number  and  a  wider  outlook  we 
begin  a  new  volume,  the  nineteenth. 
A  continuance  of  your  kindly  favor  is 
solicited. 

AMERICAN 
COOKERY 

rORMULLT 

THE  BOSTON 
COOKING  SCHQQLMAGAZINE 

OF'  CULINARr-  SCI£NC£*mDCMLSTIC  •  CCOM)MCS 


EAT  ONIONS  IN  MAY.  AND  ALL  THE  YEAR  AFTER  PHYSICIANS  MAY   PLAY 


Seasonable  Recipes 

By  Janet  M.  Hill 


f  N  all  r 


I  where  flour  is  used,   unleu   otherwise  stated,  the  flour 

ere  flour  ia  measured  by  cups,  the  cup  is  filled    with  a  s 

A  tablespoonful  or  teaspoonful  (rf  any  designated  material  ii 


k  LBVBL  spoonful. 


Canapes,  Indienne 


POUND  in  a  wooden  bowl  one- 
fourth  a  cup,  each,  of  chopped, 
cooked  ham  and  chicken;  add 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  chutney,  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful,  each, of  curry  powder  and  pap- 
rika and  salt  as  needed ,  and  pound  again ; 
then  press  through  a  sieve.  Have 
ready  some  rounds,  diamonds  or  finger- 
shaped  pieces  of  bread,  buttered  and 
browned  in  the  oven  and  then  cooled. 
Spread  these  with  the  mixture,  set  a 
slice  of  hard-cooked  egg  in  the  center, 
and  the  canapfe  are  ready. 

Tomatoes  a  la  Tartare 

Very   small   hot-house   tomatoes  are 

usually   selected   for   this   dish,    served 


as  a  prelude  to  a  formal  luncheon  or 
dinner.  Hot-house  tomatoes  are  easily 
peeled  without  recourse  to  boiling  water, 
which  impairs  the  flavor,  a  chief  re- 
quisite in  an  appetiser.  Remove  a 
portion  of  the  tomato  around  the  stem, 
to  make  space  for  a  small  spoonful  of 
sauce  tartare.  Chill  the  tomatoes  thor- 
oughly, set  them  on  croutons  of  bread 
(prepared  as  above),  fill  with  the 
sauce  and  serve  at  once.  Small  salad 
forks  should  be  provided  for  this  hors 
d'oeuvre. 

Clam  Croquettes 

Canned  clams  may  be  used.  If  fresh 
clams  are  at  hand,  scrub  and  wash  the 
shells  thoroughly,  and  rinse  in  cold 
water.  Put  them  into  a  large  saucepan 
with    about    a    cup    of    boiling    water* 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


cover  and  let  steam  until  the  shells 
open.  Remove  the  clams  from  the 
shells,  retaining  all  the  liquid.  Let 
the  liquid  settle,  then  strain  through  a 
cloth.  Chop  the  clams,  but  not  too 
fine.  For  eight  large  croquettes,  melt 
one-third  a  cup  of  butter;  add  one-third 
a  cup  of  flour,  a  scant  half-teaspoonful, 
each,  of  salt  and  paprika,  and  let  cook 
until  the  flour  is  absorbed;  add  one  cup 
of  the  clam  broth  and  one-fourth  a  cup 
of  cream  and  stir  until  the  sauce  is 
smooth  and  boiling;  add  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  lemon  juice,  and  one  cup  and  a 


and  let  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  about 
twenty  minutes.  For  twelve  filets  or 
turbans,  prepare  a  pint  of  sauce.  Use 
one-fourth  a  cup,  each,  of  butter  and 
flour,  half  a  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt 
and  paprika,  one  cup  and  a  half  of  fish 
stock,  half  a  cup  of  thick  tomato  pur^e, 
a  teaspoonful  of  beef  or  vegetable 
extract,  a  tablespoonful  of  grated  horse- 
radish and  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice.  Use  the  cooking  liquid  of  the 
fish  as  part  of  the  stock.  Serve  the 
fish  around  a  mound  of  whole  fried 
potatoes  and  the  sauce  in  a  bowl. 


FILETS  OF  FLOUNDER.  CZARINA    STYLE,  WITH   WHOLE  FRIED  POTATOES 


half  of  the  chopped  clams;  mix,  add 
one  egg,  beaten  light,  and  let  stand 
over  boiling  water  until  the  egg  is 
cooked.  Turn  on  to  a  buttered  dish. 
When  cool,  shape,  cover  with  beaten 
egg,  roll  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Filets  of  Flounder,  Czarina  Style 
Remove  the  filets  from  one  or  two 
flounders.  Trim  the  filets  to  the  same 
size  and  shape.  Cover  all  the  bones 
and  trimmings  with  cold  water;  add 
two  or  three  slices,  each,  of  carrot  and 
onion,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  dried  mush- 
rooms and  three  branches  of  parsley. 
Let  cook  half  an  hour,  then  strain  off 
the  broth.  Roll  the  fllets  into  turban 
shapes,  press  into  each  a  buttered  tooth- 
pick, squeeze  over  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  and  set  into  a  buttered  dish; 
pour  around  a  little  of  the  fish  stock 


Whole  Fried  Potatoes 

As  the  fat  bubbles  (from  the  water 
in  the  potatoes)  during  the  whole  time 
of  cooking,  we  might  perhaps  speak  of 
these  potatoes  as  boiled  in  fat.  Have 
the  potatoes  pared,  soaked  in  cold  water 
an  hour  or  more,  then  dried  on  a  cloth. 
Select  rather  small  potatoes.  Let  cook 
until  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  skewer; 
drain  on  soft  paper  at  the  oven  door, 
and  serve  at  once.  The  potatoes  should 
be  mealy  and  without  any  flavor  of 
fat.  As  many  may  be  cooked  at  once 
as  the  frying  kettle  will  conveniently 
hold. 

Sweetbread  Rissoles 
Prepare  flaky  pastry.     Use  three  cups 
of  pastry  flour,  three-fourths  a  cup    of 
any   preferred   shortening,   half   a   tea- 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


STRING-BEAN.  SALAD,  WITH  SLICED  EGGS 


Spoonful  of  salt,  and  cold  water  as 
needed.  Roll  into  a  sheet,  then  fold 
in  one-third  a  cup  of  butter.  Roll  the 
pastry  into  a  sheet  and  cut  into  rounds 
about  three  and  a  half  inches  in  diame- 
ter. Set  a  rounding  teaspoonful  of 
■creamed  sweetbread  mixture  at  one 
side  of  the  center ;  cut  out,  nearly,  three 
or  four  small  rounds  on  the  other  half 
of  the  paste,  brush  the  edge  around  the 
mixture  with  cold  water,  and  fold  over 
the  other  half,  pressing  the  edges 
together;  bake  about  twenty  minutes. 
For  a  cup  and  one-fourth  of  sweet- 
breads in  cubes,  make  one  cup  of 
cream  or  bechamel  sauce.  Use  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  place  of  the 
two  commonly  used. 

Potato  Salad 
Cover  a  piece  of  fancy  brisket  (corned 
beef)  with  cold  water ;  let  heat  gradually 
to  the  boiling  point,  then  simmer  until 


tender.  It  will  take  about  eight  hours. 
Set  the  meat  aside,  partly  covered,  to 
cool.  The  next  day  cook  some  pared 
potatoes  and  a  carrot,  nicely  scraped, 
in  the  broth,  using  separate  dishes. 
When  these  are  cold,  cut  the  potatoes 
in  half-inch  cubes,  the  carrots  in  smaller 
cubes.  Chop  fine  in  a  tray,  all  together, 
three  slices  of  leek  or  two  of  Bermuda 
onions,  three  branches  of  parsley,  one 
chili  pepper  or  half  a  green  pepper, 
eight  stuffed  olives  and  three  small 
cucumber  pickles  or  slices  of  green 
tomato  pickle.  Add  these  to  three  cups 
of  potato  and  half  a  cup  of  carrot; 
add  also  one-third  a  cup  of  oil,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  red  wine  or  real  cider 
vinegar  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Mix  together  and  shape  on  a  serving 
dish  in  a  mound.  Spread  mayonnaise 
dressing  over  the  mound;  set  chives, 
cut  in  bits,  and  chopped  parsley  at 
the  top  of  the  mound,  a  wreath  of  car- 


POTATO  SALAD 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


rot  around   the  center,   chopped  beets     Dried   parsley   may   be   used,    if  fresh 
and   a  hard-cooked  egg,   cut  in  slices,     parsley  be  not  at  hand. 


A  PERFECT  EGC>SL1CER 


at  the  base.  Surround  the  whole  with 
thin-and-neatly  trimmed  slices  of  the 
corned  beef. 

Stringbean  Salad 
Fresh  cooked  or  canned  beans  may 
be  used.  For  a  pint,  chop  fine  two 
slices  of  leek  or  half  a  thin  slice  of  Ber- 
muda or  Spanish  onion;  add  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  one-fourth  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  paprika,  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  half  a  chili  pepper,  chopped 
fine,  and  one  tablespoonful  and  a  half 
of  cider  or  red-wine  vinegar.  Mix 
thoroughly    and    turn    on    to    a    plate. 


Macedoine  of  Vegetables  in  To- 
mato Jelly 
Cook  very  gently  two  cups  of  canned 
tomatoes,  two  branches  of  parsley,  a 
branch  of  celery  leaves,  one  or  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  mushroom  trimmings  (peel 
and  stalks),  two  slices  of  onion  with 
two  cloves,  a  small  bit  of  bay  leaf  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  fifteen  min- 
utes; strain,  add  one-fourth  a  package 
of  gelatine,  softened  in  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  cold  water,  and  a  few  drops  of 
tabasco  sauce.  Chop  line  the  cooked 
white  of  one  egg.  Cut  in  small  bits 
any  cooked  vegetables  at  hand,  as  okra, 


i  CELERY.   LETTUCE  AND 


Set  slices  of  hard-cooked  egg  around  the  string    beans,    asparagus    and    celery 

beans  and  a  tablespoonful  of  mayon-  hearts.     Cooked    peas    may     be    used 

naise  on  the  top.     A  tablespoonful  of  whole.     Set   seven   or   eight   molds   in 

fine-chopped  parsley  improves  the  salad,  water  and  crushed  ice.     In  the  bottom 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


of  each  mold  put  part  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  the  chopped  white  (or  yolk,  or  both) 
of   egg.     Add  the  prepared   vegetables 


and  paprika,  and  stir  until  well  blended, 
then  add  one  cup  of  rich  milk  and  half 
a  cup  of  the  water  in  which  the  onions 


DINNER  ROLLS 


and  any  egg  that  is  left  to  the  tomato, 
which  has  been  cooled  somewhat;  stir 
until  the  tomato  holds  up  the  vegetables, 
then  use  to  fill  the  molds.  Serve,  un- 
molded,  on  heart -leaves  of  lettuce,  with 
French,  mayonnaise  or  other  salad 
dressing.  A  piece  of  green  pepper  or 
a  chili  pepper  may  replace  the  tabasco; 
also  mushroom  catsup  may  replace  the 
mushroom  trimmings,  or  both  may  be 
omitt«d. 

Creamed  Onions,   with  Parsley 

Cook  the  peeled  onions  in  boiling 
water  until  tender,  adding  salt  when 
about    half    cooked.     For    six 


were  boiled,  and  stir  until  smooth  and 
boiling.  Turn  this  over  the  onions 
in  one  large  or  in  individual  dishes  and 
sprinkle    generously    with   fine-chopped 

parsley. 

Chestnuts   and    Bermuda   Onions 
en  Casserole 

Select  onions  of  about  the  same  size; 
parboil  the  onions  fifteen  minutes,  drain 
and  set  into  a  buttered  casserole.  For 
about  eight  onions,  add  one  cup  of 
thick  tomato  pur4e,  a  chili  pepper, 
with  seeds  removed,  or  a  green  pepper, 
cut  in  shreds,  four  branches  of  parsley, 
about  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  boiling 


RYE-AND- OAT  MEAL  BREAD  — PALATABLE  f 


i  WHOLESOME 


melt  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  water  or  broth  just  to  cover  the  onions; 
add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  a  let  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  about  one 
scant   half   teaspoonful,   each,    of   salt     hour,  then  add  a  cup  of  shelled-and- 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


blanched  chestnuts,  more  liquid  if 
needed,  and  return  the  casserole  to  the 
oven.     Serve  when  both  vegetables  are 


TOMATO  JELLY,  WITH  SOME   INGREDIENTS 

done.  It  will  probably  take  from  half 
to  three-fourths  an  hour  to  finish  the 
cooking.  One-fourth  a  cup,  each,  of 
butter  and  flour,  creamed  together, 
may  be  stirred  with  some  of  the  hot 
liquid,  then  poured  into  the  casserole 
ten  minutes  before  the  cooking  is  com- 
pleted. 

Dinner  Rolls 
Mix  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  with 
one-fourth  a  cup  of  scalded -and -cooled 
milk;  add  to  one  cup  of  scalded-and- 
cooled  milk  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  about 
one    cup    and    a    half   of   bread    flour. 


smooth  and  elastic.  Cover  and  let 
stand  to  become  light;  shape  to  fit  a 
French  roll  pan.  When  again  light 
bake  about  twenty-five  minutes;  brush 
over  with  beaten  white  of  egg  and  return 
to  the  oven  a  moment  to  set  the  glaze. 

Rye  Flour-and-Oatmeal  Bread 
Pour  two  cups  of  milk,  scalding  hot, 
over  one  cup  of  oatmeal;  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  let  stand  until 
lukewarm,  then  add  one-fourth  a  cup 
of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-third  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast 
mixed  with  half  a  cup  of  scalded-and- 
cooled  milk,  two  cups  of  white  bread 
flour  and  three  cups  and  one  half  of 
rye-flour.  Mix  the  whole  to  a  smooth 
dough,  adding  more  rye-flour  if  needed. 
Knead  until  smooth,  using  white  flour 
on  board  and  hands  if  required.  Let 
stand  overnight.  In  the  morning  shape 
into  two  loaves;  when  again  light 
bake  one  hour. 

Tomato  Jelly 
Turn  a  can  of  tomatoes  into  a  sie\'e 
and  let  drain.  To  this  liquid  (no  pres- 
sure is  to  be  used  in  seciuing  this) 
add  the  thin  yellow  rind  (cut  off  with 
a  sharp  knife),  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Let  boil  ten  minutes,  then  add  a  cup 
of  sugar  for  each  cup  of  juice,  measured 
before  cooking,  and  let  boil  to  220"  F. 
by  the  syrup  guage,  or,  unti'  syrup  jrf- 


STBAWBERBY-JAM   TABTS 


cover  and  let  stand  to  become  light; 
add  one-fourth  a  cup  of  shortening, 
and  flour  for  a  soft  dough.     Knead  until 


lies  slightly  on  a  cold  plate.  Usually 
this  will  make  a  firm  jelly ;  at  other  times, 
probably,  when   the   tomatoes   are   too 


SEASONABLE  RECIPES 


STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE 


ripe  or  water  is  used  in  canning, —  the 
result  is  like  a  thick  honey.  The  addi- 
tion of  a  few  apple  parings  with  the 
lemon  peel  would,  in  this  latter  case, 
produce  a  firmer  jelly.  The  jelly  is 
particularly  good  with  meats. 

Strawberry- J  am  Tarts 
Make  flaky  pastry  by  the  recipe  given 
so  many  times  in  these  pages.  Roll 
into  a  sheet  and  cut  into  rounds  with 
a  large  cutter.  With  a  pastry  tube, 
having  a  small  round  opening,  cut  a 
circle  of  little  rounds,  without  removing 
the  tiny  pieces  of  paste.  Set  a  generous 
spoonful  of  strawberry  jam  in  the  center 
of  the  plain  rounds,  disposed  in  a  bak- 
ing pan,  and  brush  the  edge  with  cold 
water;  set  the  other  rounds  above  and 
press  the  edges  firmly  upon  the  edges 
wet  with  cold  water;  brush  the  whole 
with  milk  or  water;  dredge  with  gran- 
ulated sugar.  Bake  from  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake 
Sift  together  two  cups  of  sifted  pas- 
try flour,  half  a  level  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  a  slightly  rounding  teaspoonful 
of  cream  of  tartar  and  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt;  with  two  knives  work  in  one- 
third  a  cup  of  shortening,  then  mix  to 
a  soft  dough  with  milk.  Spread  the 
mixture,  smooth,  in  two  buttered  pans 
about  seven  and  a  half  inches  in  dia- 
meter.    Bake    about    twenty    minutes. 


Spread  the  smoothest  side  of  each  cake 
generously  with  butter;  put  plenty  of 
sugared  berries  on  each  and  set  one 
above  the  other;  pipe  whipped  cream 
above  and  surround  with  sugared  ber- 
ries. The  cake  will  be  at  its  best,  if 
the  berries,  cut  in  halves,  are  mixed 
with  sugar  half  to  a  full  hour  before 
serving. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

Beat  one  cup  and  a  half  of  butter  to 
a  cream;  gradually  beat  in  two  cups  of 
granulated  sugar,  three  eggs  beaten 
light,  two-thirds  a  cup  of  milk,  four 
cups  of  oatmeal,  four  and  one-half 
cups  of  sifted  fioiir,  sifted  again  with 
one  teaspoonful,  each,  of  soda,  salt  and 
cinnamon,  and  one  cup,  each,  of  raisins, 
currants  and  nut  meats.  Chop  the 
raisins  and  nut  meats.  Knead  and  roll 
into  a  sheet,  cut  into  rounds  and  bake. 
The  recipe  will  make  about  seventy 
cakes. 

Hot  Fudge  Cake  in  Muffin  Pan 
Beat  half  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream; 
gradually  beat  in  one  cup  of  sugar,  the 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  three  ounces 
(or  squares)  of  chocolate,  melted  over 
hot  water,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  hf^lf 
a  cup  of  sour  milk,  half  a  cup  of  hot 
water,  two  cups  of  sifted  flour,  sifted 
again  with  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
and,  lastly,  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
beaten  dry.     Half  to  a  whole  teaspoon- 


776 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


ful  of  cinnamon  may  be  added  with  the 
soda.  Bake  in  a  hot  well-buttered 
mufiin  pan  about  half  an  hour.  Serve 
hot  as  a  dessert  dish  with 

Marshmallow  Sauce 

Boil  one  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup 
of  hot  water  five  or  six  minutes  after 
boiling  begins.  Do  not  stir  after  the 
syrup  boils.  Cover  and  let  boil  rapidly 
about  three  minutes,  then  uncover. 
Remove  from  fire;  add  half  a  pound  of 
marshmallows  and  beat  until  they  are 
melted.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Serve 
hot. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake 
Cream  two-thirds  a  cup  of  butter; 
gradually  beat  in  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one  cup  of  hickory  nut  meats,  chopped, 
the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup 
of  milk,  three  cups  of  sifted  flour,  sifted 
again  with  two  slightly  rounding  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and,  lastly, 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  dry. 
Bake  in  a  well-greased  pan  (with  tube) 
about  forty-five  minutes.  When  cold 
cover  with  confectioner's  frosting  and 
decorate  with  boiled  frosting.  Use  a 
plain  copper  tube  for  stems,  the  leaf 


tube  for  leaves  and  a  small  five-pointed 
tin  tube  for  the  blossoms. 

Confectioner's  Frosting 

Stir  sifted  confectioner's  sugar  with 
boiling  water  to  make  a  frosting  that 
will  spread  without  running  from  the 
cake;  more  sugar  will  be  needed  in  the 
frosting  for  the  sides  than  for  the  top. 
Flavor  with  a  little  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  lemon. 

Ornamental  Frosting 
Melt  one  cup  of  sugar  in  half  a  cup 
of  boiling  water;  wash  down  the  sides 
of  the  saucepan  to  remove  grains  of 
sugar;  cover  and  let  boil  three  minutes 
to  dissolve  the  grains  of  the  sugar; 
uncover  and  let  boil,  undisturbed,  to 
238"  F,  Pour  in  a  very  fine  stream  on 
the  white  of  an  egg,  half  beaten,  beat- 
ing constantly  meanwhile.  Continue 
the  beating  until  the  frosting  is  cool, 
then  beat  in  a  scant  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  juice.  Keep  the  frosting  covered 
with  a  damp  cloth  (this  must  not  touch 
the  frosting)  whUe  using  it.  The  frost- 
ing for  the  leaves  and  stems,  shown  in 
the  illustration,  was  tinted  green  and 
the  flowers  pink  with  color  paste. 


HICKORY  NUT  CAKE 
HAND  PAINTED  RING  TO  HOLD  BIRTHDAY  CANDLES 

Courtny  Educstlonsl  and  Induitritl  Union.  BoMon 


Menus  for  a  Week  in  May 

No  less  important  is  it  that  the  fooJ  shall  furnish,  along  with  the  protein^  proper  amounts  and 

proportions  of  the  so-called  ash  constituents' 


< 

Z 

D 
c/) 


Radishes 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Salt  Mackerel  Cooked  in  Milk 

Baked  Potatoes 

Yeast  Rolls  (reheated) 


Dinner 


Coffee 


Braised   Round  of  Veal,   Mushroom  Sauce 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Scalloped  Onions  and  Tomatoes 

Beet  Greens 

Strawberry  Shortcake  Coffee 

Supper 

Potato  Salad,  with  Cold  Corned  Beef 
Oatmeal-and-Rye  Bread 

Sponge  Jelly  Roll 

(with  Strawberry  Jam) 

Tea 


Coffee 


Breakfast 

Strawberries 
Eggs  Scrambled  with  Cooked  Ham 
French-Fried  Potatoes 
Pop  Overs 


Cocoa 


Dinner 

Beef  Stew 

(New  Onions  and  Carrots) 

German  Puffs,  Creamy  Sauce 

Half  Cups  Coffee* 

Supper 

Hot  Ham  Sandwiches 

Stewed  Prunes 

Cookies 

Tea 


O 


> 
< 
Q 

o 


Breakfast 

Oranges 

Corned  Beef  and  Potato  Hash 

(with  Green  Pepper) 

Eggs  Cooked  in  Shell     Wheat  Rolls,Toasted 

Cold  Bread  (Rye  and  Oatmeal) 

Coffee  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Veal  Souffl6 

Macaroni,  Milanaise 

(Tomatoes,  Broth,  Cheese) 

Cold  Beet  Greens,  French  Dressing 

Scalloped  Rhubarb 

Coffee 

Supper 

Kornlet  Chowder  Browned  Crackers 

Strawberries  Tea 


Breakfast 

Oranges 

Tripe,  Breaded  and  Fried     Creamed  Potatoes 

Coffee       Rye-Meal  MufHns      Cocoa 

Dinner 

Remnants  of  Beef  Stew 

(Baked  as  pie  with  pastry  crust) 

Asparagus,  Drawn  Butter  Sauce 

Lettuce,  Prune-and-Pecan  Nut  Salad 

Whipped  Cream  Dressing 

Bread  and  Butter  Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Savory  Rice  Croquettes 

(Tomatoes,  Broth,  Cheese) 

Dried  Beef 

Boiled  Custard  in  Cups 

Little  Fruit  and  Nut  Cakes 


Tea 


H 

a 
> 


< 
a 

C/) 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 
Creamed  Asparagus  on  Toast 
Corn  Meal  MufHns 
Coffee  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Broiled  Shad 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Lettuce  Salad 

Rhubarb  Pie  Coffee 

Supper 

Shad  Roe,  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Pineapple 

Oat  meat -and-Fruit  Cookies 

Tea 


Breakfast 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Asparagus  Omelet  Buttered  Toast 

Doughnuts  Maple  Syrup 

Coffee  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Boiled  Fresh  Fish,  Clam  or  E|:g  Sauce 

Cucumbers,  French  Dressmg 

Boiled  Potatoes 

String  Beans 

Prune  Bavarian  Cream 

Half  Cups  of  Coffee 

Supper 

Bermuda  Onions  and  Chestnuts  en  Casserole 

Dinner  Rolls 
Strawberries  Tea 


> 


> 
< 

Q 
D 
< 

C/5 


Breakfast                                       Dinner  Supper 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream                  Veal  or  Lamb  Sweetbreads,  String  Beans  and  Sliced  EggS' 
Smoked  Halibut,  Creamed    Braised,  in  Nests  of  Macaroni,  Milanaise     French  Dressing 

Halves  of  Potatoes,  Boiled              Lettuce,  French  Dressing  Lady  Finger  Rolls 

Boston  Brown  Bread,  reheated      Lemon  Jell-0,  with  Pineapple  Strawberries 

Fried  Mush     Maple  Syrup                Half  Cups  of  Coffee  Cookies 

Coffee         Cocoa  Tea 

777 


Menus  for  Family  of  Five 

(One  Week) 

Man  with  gall  stones      Woman  in  good  health     Boy  9  years  of  age 

Girl  5H  y^rs  of  age      One  maid 

With  gall  stones,  richly  cooked  food,  meat  more  than  once  a  day  in  small 
quantity,  sugars  and  fats  are  all  to  be  avoided.  Sweet  vegetables  and  fruit, 
also  yolks  of  eggs  are  to  be  omitted  from  the  dietary.  The  quantity  of  food  is 
to  be  cut  down  and  no  excess  of  food  taken.  Bread,  in  moderation,  well- 
cooked  cereals,  fresh  fish  of  the  white  varieties  may  be  eaten;  lean  beef,  lamb 
and  chicken,  once  a  day  are  allowable.  Potatoes  are  thought  to  be  serviceable. 
Many  physicians,  who  consider  sugar  the  only  article  that  must  be  eliminated, 
give  one  egg  (yolk  and  white)  per  day  and  no  fat  other  than  a  little  butter. 
The  Carlsbad  dietary  for  gall  stones  forbids  sugar  and  butter  absolutely, 
but  allows  a  smalj  quantity  of  meat  daily.  Sir  H.  Thompson  commends  oat- 
meal, barley,  macaroni,  dry  lentils  in  the  form  of  pur6e,  rice,  tapioca,  arrow 
root  cooked  with  weak  broth,  apples  cooked  without  sugar,  celery,  lettuce, 
asparagus,  kale,  tomatoes,  potatoes. 

From  this  you  will  see  that  the  children  must  be  fed  quite  differently  than  the 
man.  They  need  a  generous  quantity  of  protein,  some  sweet,  fat  and  starchy 
foods. 

Children  need  meat  once  a  day,  eggs  once  a  day,  plenty  of  milk,  easily  digested 
vegetables  and  fruit.  Rice  and  other  puddings  in  which  milk  and  eggs  are 
used,  are  valuable  for  children,  but  should  not  be  eaten  by  one  having  gall  stones. 
For  such,  use  saccharin  for  sugar  and  the  whites,  only,  of  the  eggs.  Children 
shoidd  have  fresh  fruit  —  carefully  selected  and  fully  ripe  — -  daily.  The  best 
hotir  for  this  is  mid-time  between  breakfast  and  dinner.  Cooked  fruit  may  be 
eaten  with  the  meals. 


WEDNESDAY 

Breakfast 

Very  ripe  Banana  sliced  thin.  Hot  Cereal 

above.  Thin  Cream 
(Omit  banana^  for  girl;  give  juice  of  one 
orange  midway  between  breakfast 
and  dinner) 
(Omit   cream   for   man)    Eggs   Poached   in 
Cream  on  Toast.  Cream  poured  over 
the  whole 
(Man)  French  Bread  Toasted 
Ryemeal  Muffins 
Milk  for  children 
Coffee 

Dinner 

Turbans  of  Halibut,  Baked 
PoUtoes  &  la  Maitre  d'Hdtel 

Onions  wrapped  in  buttered  paper  and  baked 
Lettuce  and  French  Endive 
French  Dressing  with  Tomato  Catsup 

Prune  Souffle,  Boiled  Custard  Sauce 

4  whites,  beaten  dry 

^  lb.  cooked  prunes,  cut  fine 

H  cup  sugar 

Bake  in  hot  water  on, folds  of  paper ,90ry  gently 

Serve  with  custard  made  of  yolks 

(very  little  for  man,  no  custard  sauce) 

Supper 

Boiled  Rice,  Thin  Cream 
Bread  and  Butter,  Milk  for  children  to  drink 

Honey 


THURSDAY 

Breakfast 

Hot  Dates,  Cereal,  Thin  Cream 
Broiled  Bacon  Eggs  Cooked  in  Shell 

Small  Potatoes,  Baked 
Currant  Buns  (Zwiebach  for  youngest  child) 
Milk  or  Cocoa  Coffee 

Dinner 

Boiled  Fowl 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  breast  meat  cut  in 

tiny  bits  for  youngest  child 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Spinach   Greens   Pur^  for  youngest   child 

Junket  Ice  Cream 
Baked  Apple  for  man  (spiced  if  liked) 

Supper 

Soft  Scrambled  Eggs 

Cold  Spinach,  French  Dressing 

Wholewheat  Bread  and  Butter 

Stewed  Prunes  (Baked  Apple  for  man  — 

prunes  too  sweet) 
Milk  Tea 

FRIDAY 

Breakfast 

Oatmeal,  Milk 

Broiled  Fresh  Fish 

Baked  Potatoes 

(Small   child's   mashed   carefully) 

Toast  Zwieback 

Coffee  or  Hot  Water 

Milk  for  children 


778 


MENUS  FOR   FAMILY    OP    FIVE 


779 


Dinner 

Chicken-and-Tomato  Soup 

(thickened  with  rice  or  tapioca) 

Baked  White  Fish  r   • 

Mashed  Potatoes 

^lacaroni  with  Broth  and  Tomato  or  Cream 

(no  cheese) 

Bread  and  Butter 

Queen  of  Puddings 

Coffee  or  Hot  Water 

Milk  for  children 


Whole  Wheat  and  Oatmeal  Bread 
Junket  Ice  Cream 
Oatmeal  Macaroons 

Supper     ' 

VVheat  Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

•  Bread  and  Butter 

Zwiebach 

Honey 

Milk  to  drink 


Tea 


Supper 

Plain  Toast 

Cream  Toast  for  children 

Asparagus  Tips 

Bran  Muffins 

Sponge  Cake  with  Potato  Flour 

Dried  Peaches,  Stewed 


Milk 


MONDAY 

Breakfast 

Cream  of  Wheat,  Thin  Cream 

French  Omelet  (made  with  water) 

Asparagus  Tips 

Stewed  Rhubarb 

(no  milk) 


SATURDAY 

Breakfast 

Hot  Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Creamed  Chicken  on  Toast 

Eggs  for  man  and  little  girl 

Cornmeal  Muffins  (largely  crust) 

Dry  Toast 

Marmalade    - 

Coffee  or  Hot  Water 

Milk  for  Children 

Dinner 

Half  of  Lep^  of  Lamb,  Boiled 

Rice  Cooked  with  Tomato  and   Broth 

Baked  Potatoes 

Lettuce,  French  Dressing 

Wholewheat  Bread  and  Butter 

Apple  Sauce  with  Saccharin 

Orange  or  Pineapple  Juice   (little  girl) 

Strawberries 
Hot  Water  or  Coffee 

Supper 

Lamb  Broth  with  Rice 
Browned   Crackers  —  plain,   water   crackers 

,.       Bread  and  Butter      

Stewed  Prunes 
Milk  to  drink 


Dinner 

Beef  Bouillon  (children) 
Squabs  en  Casserole  (cooked  without  vege- 
tables) 
Mashed  Potatoes 
Macaroni  and  Stewed  Tomatoes 
Lettuce,    with    lemon   juice  —  very   little   oil 

(Children)  Hot  Dates 
(Children)  Sponge  Cake  (potato  flour) 
(this  flour  makes  a  tender  easily  digested  cake) 

Supper 

Zwiebach 

Boiled  Hominy 

Bread  and  Butter 

Stewed  Figs 

Junket  —  sweetened  for  children 

Saccharin  and  Cinnamon,  but  no  sugar  for 

man 


TUESDAY 

Breakfast 

Cracked  Wheat,  whole  milk  or  thin  cream 

Fat  Bacon,  Broiled  in  oven 
(no  sugar)  Cornmeal  Muffins  (mostly  crust) 
Cocoa  (without  milk)  children 
'  *  Zwiebach  or  Toast 


SUNDAY 

Breakfast 

Boiled  Rice,  Milk  or  Thin  Cream 

Broiled  FresU  Codfish,  Haddock  or  Lake  Fish 

Small  Baked  Potatoes 

Very  Dry  Toast 

Milk  Hot  Water 

Dinner 

Broiled  Beef  Steak 
B&ked  Potatoes*  ' 

'— •  Asparagus- or  Spinach  -       

Lettuce  with  Tomato  felly 


Dinner 

Half  a  Le^  of  Lamb  Roasted 
(less  fat  than  in  loin  etc,  thus  less  objection- 
able for  man) 
Boiled  Onions  (pur6e  for  girl) 
Lettuce  and  Tomato  Jelly 
Baked  or  Mashed  Potatoes,  Platter  Gravy 
Baked  Bananas  (children) 

Supper 

;.  Farina,  Top  Milk 

Wholewheat  Bread  and  Butter 
Poached  Eggs  (1  each") 
Orange  Marmalade 
'4^...  (^trained  for  girl) 


Our  Daily  Bread,  or 
Preparation  in  Detail  of  the  Meals  of  One  Day 

Famlkf  (4  Too  AJulb  and  Two  CMirm 
By  Janet  M.  HUl 


FRIDAY 
BrMkful 

Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

BroUed  Sow),  Mattre  d'Hfttel  Butter 

Stewed  Potatoes 

Dry  Toast 

Pop  Overs 

Stewed  Peaches 

Milk  CoSce 

Dfamer  (Oueita) 

Roast  Beef  Tenderloin 

Mushroom  Sauce 

Franconia  Potatoes 

Asparagus,  Hotlandaise  Sauce 

Cress-and -Endive  Satad 

Rhubarb  Pie 

CoSee 

Siqipvr  (Gneits) 

En  Timbales,  Bread  Sauce 

Rye-and-Oatmeal  Bread 

Sponge  Cake  (potato  6our) 

Strawberries 

Tea 

THE  stewed  peaches  were  cxxiked 
on  Thursday.  They  were  cov- 
ered with  cold  water  and,  after 
standing  two  or  three  hours  or  overnight, 
were  cooked  quickly;  about  one-fourth  a 
cjip  of  sugar  was  added  after  the  peaches 
were  well  plumped  and  tender.  One 
pound  of  peaches  was  purchased  and 
about  one-third  of  them  was  cooked  at 
this  time.  Sometimes,  for  a  change, 
cook  the  soaked  peaches  in  the  momii^, 
while  preparing  the  breakfast,  and 
serve  them  hot. 

Thtu^day  night,  before  washing  the 
supper   dishes,    pare   the   potatoes,   to 


let  them  stand  overnight  in  cold  water. 

The  popovers  will  need  to  cook  at 
least  forty-five  minutes,  thus  the  tnixing 
cA  these  is  the  first  thing  to  be  attended 
to  in  the  morning.  Personally  we  get 
the  best  results  when  using  ahot  iron  pan 
having  large  round  cups,  but  others 
succeed  best  with  the  brown  earthen 
cups,  and  still  others  use  tin  muSSn  pans. 
If  an  iron  pan  be  used,  set  it  on  the 
range  or  in  the  oven  to  heat.  For  a 
dozen  popovers,  beat  two  eggs  light, 
without  separating  the  white  and  yolk  — 
uang  an  egg  beater;  add  two  cups  of 
milk,  and  continue  to  beat  while  two 
cups  of  sifted  pastry  flour  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  ^t  are  gradually  beaten 
into  the  liquid.  Put  a  scant  level 
teaspoonful  of  butter  into  each  cup  and 
poiu-  in  the  mixture.  The  oven  ^ould 
be  quite  hot,  but  not  of  such  temperature 
as  to  brown  the  top  of  the  popovers 
before  they  have  risen  to  their  full 
height. 

At  once  set  the  cereal  to  cook.  If 
it  has  been  cooking  over  night  in  the 
fireless  cooker,  take  it  out,  add  boiling 
water,  if  needed,  and  set  over  the  fire 
to  reheat.  Cut  the  potatoes  in  halves, 
lengthwise,  and  these  halves  in  two  or 
three  pieces,  each,  and  let  cook  in  boil- 
ing salted  water  until  tender;  while 
these  are  cooking  set  the  fish  to  btoil 
and  prepare  the  maltre  d'  h6tel  butter. 


OUR  DAILY  BREAD 


781 


the  coflEec  and  the  toast;  directions  for 
making-  the  coffee  and  the  toast  were 
given  previously.  To  make  the  butter, 
beat  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to 
a  cream;  gradually  beat  in  one  or  two 
tablespoonftds  of  lemon  juice  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  fine-chopped  parsley. 
Do  not  set  the  fish  into  the  oven  to 
melt  the  butter,  the  heat  of  the  fish 
should  melt  it  sufficiently.  Butter  may 
be  spread  over  the  fish,  a  little  lemon 
juice  squeezed  on  and  then  a  sprinkling 
of  chopped  parsley  added ;  but  the  butter 
spreads  more  easily  after  creaming 
and  the  flavor  of  the  lemon  juice  and 
parsley  are  brought  out  better  when 
mixed  with  the  butter. 

A  scrod  is  a  young,  and  thus  small, 
codfish  or  haddock,  split  down  the  back 
with  the  backbone  wholly  or  partially 
removed.  Scrod  is  always  broiled.  The 
fish  may  be  set  in  a  covered  dish  and  kept 
overnight  on  the  lowest  shelf  of  the 
refrigerator.  In  the  morning  wipe  with 
a  damp  doth  and  set  into  a  hot,  well- 
greased  broiler.  Turn  occasionally 
while  cooking,  but  cook  principally  on 
the  flesh  side;  cook  the  skin  side  till 
well-colored  and  crisp;  the  flesh  side 
will  not  brown  as  weU.  The  fish  will 
cook  in  ten  or  twelve  minutes.  Set  the 
broiler  over  a  plate  on  a  sheet  of  brown 
paper,  press  the  back  of  a  fotu-  pronged 
fork  down  upon  the  fish  in  such  a  manner 
that  two  prongs  of  the  fork  will  be  on 
cither  side  of  a  wire  of  the  broiler,  now 
gently  draw  the  fork  down  the  wire 
the  full  width  of  the  fish,  thus  separat- 
ing the  flesh  from  the  wire  of  the  broiler; 
repeat  this  with  each  wire  on  one  side, 
then  turn  the  broiler  and  free  the  fish 
from  the  wires,  in  the  same  manner,  on 
the  other  side,  then  slide  the  fish,  skin 
side  down,  upon  a  hot  platter.  Spread 
the  fish  with  the  butter  and  take  at 
once  to  the  table.  Drain  the  potatoes, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  which  will  draw  out 
more  of  the  water  and  tend  to  make 
the  potatoes  mealy.  Serve  the  toast 
in  a  rack  that  each  slice  may  retain 
its  crispness.  Later  on,  serve  the  peaches 


and  popovers    —  taking  out  the  fish 
dishes  on  the  way  to  the  range. 

After  breakfast  is  cleared  away,  mix 
the  bread  and  make  the  plain  pastry, 
given  on  page  502  of  the  November 
ntmiber;  the  ingredients  for  the  paste 
were:  three  cups  of  sifted  pastry  flour, 
six  ounces  (three-fourths  a  cup)  of 
shortening,  half  a  teaspoonftil,  each,  of 
salt  and  baking  powder  and  nearly 
three-fourths  a  cup  of  water.  This  will 
make  two  large  pies,  one  with  two  and 
the  other  with  one  crust,  and  possibly 
one  or  two  tarts.  Take  one-third  of  the 
paste,  and  roll  it  into  a  rectangular 
sheet ;  on  one  half  set  little  dots  of  butter, 
and  fold  paste  over  the  butter,  on  half 
of  this  surface;  set  dots  of  butter  and 
fold  the  other  half  of  the  paste  over 
the  butter  (use  three  or  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter) ;  pat  the  paste  with 
the  rolling  pin,  then  roll  into  a  sheet  and 
use  as  the  upper  crust  of  the  pie.  For 
the  filling  pour  boiling  water  over  three 
cups  and  one  half  of  sliced  rhubarb, 
let  stand  a  moment,  then  drain.  Beat 
two  eggs;  add  two  cups  of  sugar, three 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  three-fotu'ths 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  mixed  together,  and 
turn  into  the  plate  lined  with  plain 
paste;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
here  and  there  in  little  bits,  a  grating 
of  lemon  or  orange  rind  or  of  nutmeg, 
brush  the  edge  with  cold  water  and  set 
the  upper  crust  in  place;  bake  about 
half  an  hotu*. 

The  pastry  can  be  begun  while  the 
milk  is  scalding  for  the  bread,  but,  give 
the  mixing  of  the  bread  precedence, 
that  the  bread  may  be  baked  as  early  as 
possible.  If  preferred,  mix  the  bread 
Thursday  night,  using  one-third  of  a 
cake  of  yeast;  "cut  down"  the  bread 
the  first  thing  in  the  morning,  then 
shape  into  loaves  at  the  first  opportune 
moment  thereafter.  To  mix  in  the 
morning,  pour  two  cups  of  scalded  milk 
into  the  mixing  bowl  over  one  cup  of 
dry  oatmeal; add  one-fourth  a  cup  of 
molasses  or  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  shortening  and  half  a  teaspoonful 


•• . 


782 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-vSCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


of  salt;  when  the  liquid  is  lukewarm, 
add  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  broken 
into  and  mixed  with  half  a  cup  of  luke- 
warm milk  or  water;  mix  thoroughly, 
then  stir  in  two  cups  of  sifted  bread 
flour  and  three  cups  and  a  half  of  sifted 
rye  flour.  A  little  more  rye  flour  may 
be  needed.  Knead  the  dough  until 
smooth  and  elastic.  Use  white  flour 
on  the  board  in  kneading.  Set  the  dough 
aside  until  doubled  in  bulk,  then  shape 
for  two  bread  pans.  When  again  light 
bake  about  one  hour.  The  first  rising 
will  take  about  four  hours,  the  last 
•about  one  hour.  This  bread  tastes 
good  and  is  most  wholesome. 

If  the  pie  be  not  baked  when  the  early 
morning  work  in  the  kitchen  is  finished, 
pare  the  potatoes  for  dinner,  and  cover 
them  with  cold  water;  cut  the  stalks  of 
asparagus  to  the  same  length  and  tie 
them  in  two  bunches;  wash  the  cress 
and  wrap  in  a  cloth;  set  the  root  end  of 
the  endive  in  a  bowl  of  cold  water,  and 
dispose  this  and  the  cress  in  the  refriger- 
ator; make  the  French  dressing,  then, if 
the  oven  is  available,  make  the  sponge 
cake  for  supper.     The  ordinary  sponge 
Cake  is  apt  to  be  tough  and  dry;  sponge 
cake  made  of    potato    flour  is  tender, 
delicate  and  light  as  down.     A  ^'spring 
form"  pan  is  of  advantage  in  cooling 
the  cake,  but  any  new,  ungreascd.  pan 
may  be  UwSed  successfully,  if  in  cooling 
the  cake  the  ends  of  the  pan  be  propped 
up  to  leave  the  cake  suspended  from 
the  bottom  of  the  tin.     Cooled  in  this 
way,  the  cells  that  make  up  the  cake 
are   not   compressed   in   the  least,   but 
rather  elongated  and  the  cake  is  par- 
ticularly light.     For  the  cake  take  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
five  fresh  eggs,  one  cup  of  granulated 
sugar  and  half  a  cup'  of  i)otato'  flour. 
Beat  th«  yolks  until  very  light-colored 
and  thick,   and   the  whites,  until   dry; 
gradually  beat  the  sugar  into  the  yolks; 
add  the  rind,  grated,  and  juice  and  the 
flour;  cut  and  fold,  (or  turn  the  mixture 
over   and  over  with   a   slittcd   spoon), 
until  the  ingredients  are  blended,  then 


cut  and  fold  in  the  egg-whites. 

In    mixing    a  •  true    sponge    cake,    a 
stirring  motion  is  not  used;  the  air  beaten 
into  the  eggs,  which  makes  for  lightness, 
would  be  lost,  if  the  mixture  be -stirred. 
This  point*  is  essential   to  the, success 
'  of  a  true  sponge  cake.     Break  down  the 
bubbles  and  the  cake  will  be  tough  and 
heavy;  for  in  a  true  sponge  cake  baking 
'powder  or   cream   of   tartar  and   soda 
have  no  place.     The  cake  should  bake 
about    fifty  minutes;   when    baked-  it 
should  be  a  light  golden  brown.  -  In  the 
ordinary    spring-form   sponge-cake  pan 
the  mixture  should-  rise  to  within .  an 
inch  of  the  top  of  the  pan.     The  oven 
must  be  very  moderate,  but    amenable 
to  increase  of  heat  at -the- last.  •    In-  ser\'- 
ing  do"  not  ciit,  but  tear  apart  with  two 
•  silver  forks.   :  ••   •         • ;  •  ........ 

'  V  An  hour  before  dinner  the  oveii  must 
be  hot  "for  the  meat;    This  is  the    filet 
from   under '  the  rump,   and  it-  weighs 
about  three  pounds.  -  It- is  a  piece  of 
solid,  tender  meat,  without  waste^ -but 
lacking  in  flavor.     To  add  to  its  flavor, 
mushroom .'  sauce    is    served    with    it ; 
tomato  sauce  may  be  used  in  place  of 
the  sauce  given.     Rub  over  the  meat 
w^th   salt   and  flour,   set  slices  of  fat 
salt  pork  or  bacon  above  the  meat,  and 
baste  with  the  fat  in  the  pan  every  ten 
minutes.     After    the    meat    has    been 
cooking  twenty  minutes,  cook  the  pota- 
toes in  boiling, sal  ted  water  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes,  then  drain  and  set  them  on  the 
rack  around  the  meat ;  baste  the  potatoes 
with  the  dripping  each  time  the  meat 
is  basted.     Set  the  asparagus  to  cook, 
upright,    in    a    tall    saucepan     —    part 
of  a  double-boiler  is  a  suitable  dish   — 
Use  boiling,  salted  water;  the  tips  need 
not  be  covered  with  water;  cover  the 
dish  and  the  tips  will  be  cooked  in  the 
steam.       • 

For  the  Holljandaise  sauce,  cream 
one-third  a  cup  of  butter;  beat  in  three 
egg-yolks,  one  at  a  time;  add  one-fourth 
a  teaspoonful,- each,  of  salt  and  black 
pepper,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  -lemon, 
Be  sure  you  have  boiling  water  ready. 


OUR  DAILY  BREAD 


783 


that  you  may  finish  the  sauce  after 
the  rest  of  the  dinner  is  on  the  table. 

When  the  meat  and  potatoes  are  done, 
remove  to  the  serving  dishes  and  set 
into  the  warming  oven. 

Pour  off  all  the  fat,  then  turn  into 
the  pan  about  a  cup  and  a  half  of  beef 
broth  or  water  and  liquid  from  the  can 
of  mushrooms  as  is  convenient.  Return 
the  pan  to  the  fire  and  let  the  liquid 
simmer  imtil  the  browned  meat-juices 
are  taken  up  by  the  liquid.  Put  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  fat  or  dripping 
into  a  small  saucepan;  when  hot,  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  ordinary  flour 
or  twice  the  quantity  of  browned  flour 
(flour  cooked  and  stirred  in  the  oven 
imtil  brown  throughout)  and  one-fourth 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  stir  and  cook 
until  frothy,  then  add  the  liquid  from 
the  pan,  cooled  a  little,  and  stir  until 
boiling.  More  salt  may  be  needed. 
Add  the  mushrooms,  whole  or  cut  in 
halves,  lengthwise,  and  let  stand  to 
become  hot  without  boiling.  See  that 
bread,  butter,  water  and  the  salad  are 
on  the  table.  Pour  the  mushroom  sauce 
into  a  hot  bowl  or  sauce  boat.  Set 
the  dish  of  creamed  butter  and  egg- 
yolks  over  boiling  water;  add  half  a 
cup  of  the  asparagus  water  and  stir 
constantly  until  the  mixture  thickens; 
add  the  lemon  juice,  mix,  set  the  aspar- 
agus on  two  slices  of  toast,  tips  towards 
each  other;    pour  over  the  sauce  and 


take  all  the  dishes  to  the  table. 

About  an  hour  before  supper,put  over 
the  fire,  in  a  double  boiler,  half  a  cup 
of  sifted,  soft  bread  crumbs,  a  peeled 
onion  into  which  six  cloves  have  been 
pushed,  and  one  pint  of  milk;  let  cook 
about  an  hour;  remove  the  onion  and 
cloves,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one-fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  beat 
thoroughly.  When  the  timbales  are 
unmolded,  turn  the  sauce  arotmd  them 
and  press  a  sprig  of  parsley  into  the 
top  of  each  timbale. 

For  the  timbales  beat  six  eggs  without 
separating  the  whites  and  yolks,  add  a 
scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of 
pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  fine-chopped 
parsley,  twenty  drops  of  onion  juice 
and  one  cup  and  a  half  of  rich  milk, 
Stir  until  well  mixed  and  turn  into 
well-buttered  timbale  molds.  Set  the 
molds  on  many  folds  of  paper  in  a  bak- 
ing pan,  and  pour  in  boiling  water  to 
half  the  height  of  the  molds.  Let  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  mixture 
is  firm  in  the  center.  The  water  should 
not  boil  during  the  cooking.  About 
twenty  minute  of  cooking  will  be  needed. 
Remove  the  cups  from  the  water  and 
let  stand  to  contract  two  or  three 
minutes  before  unmolding.  While  the 
timbales  and  sauce  are  cooking  the 
strawberries  may  be  hulled  and  the 
table  made  ready. 


A  Guest 


I  welcome  a  guest  to  my  dwelling,  — 

A  princess  with  gold  in  her  hair. 
Whose  beauty  must  lose  in  the  telling* 

So  radiant  she  —  and  so  fair. 
She  opens  the  fountains  of  fancy 

And  worshipers  makes  of  us  all. 
I  welcome  a  guest  to  my  dwelling  — 

A  daffodil  slender  and  tall. 


I  welcome  a  guest  to  my  dwelling 

Whom  Nature,  the  mother,  hath  sent* 
She  speaks  not  of  buying  or  selling. 

Yet  here  is  the  price  of  content. 
She  speaks  of  the  wide  world  beyond  us  • 

The  hills  and  the  great  sky  above  — 
O  Nature,  kind  mother  and  teacher, 

We  wonder,  we  watch,  and  we  love. 


She  makes  of  my  cottage  a  palace,  ^ 

So  gracious  and  gentle  is  she. 
She  carries  the  sun  in  her  chalice 

And  brings  the  whole  springtime  to  me. 
She  shows  us  the  marvel  of  beautv,! 

And  worshipers  makes  of  us  all; 
I  welcome  a  guest  to  my  dwelling, 

A  da£Fodil  slender  and  tall.1 

Helbn  Cowlbs  LbCkon 


German  Home  and  Kitchen  Proverbs 

By  Kate  Hudson 


UNTIL  very  recently  the  German 
wife  and  mother  has  been  con- 
spicuously absent  from  the 
ranks  of  her  "New  Woman**  sisters; 
for,  though  there  may  have  been  an 
occasional  *' Emancipated  One,**  as 
the  Nineteenth  Century  used  to  call 
her,  the  majority  of  home-makers  con- 
fined their  attentions  to  the  Kaiser's 
"Church,  Kitchen  and  Nursery.*'  In 
the  first  of  these  departments  woman 
took  a  very  back  seat  —  or,  should  we 
say,  pew!  —  but  in  the  other  two  she 
reigned  supreme,  and  right  royally 
laid  down  the  law.  That  the  women 
also  largely  made  the  saws  and  sayings 
of  the  Fatherland,  the  following  German 
proverbs  may  testify. 

The  thrifty  German  house-wife  is 
saving  from  choice,  quite  as  much  as 
from  necessity;  she  always  —  it*s  bom 
in  her  —  "Stretches  herself  according 
to  her  bed-clothes;  so  that  her  feet 
may  not  come  uncovered.'*  And,  by 
way  of  proving  that  "A  penny  saved 
is  one  twice-earned,''  and  that  the 
"dollar  is  the  dollar's  son,**  she  not 
only  carefully  attends  to  what  comes 
in  and  goes  out  of  her  kitchen,  but  also 
does  most  of  her  own  sewing.  "Home- 
spun, home-made,  and  clean  are  the 
handsomest  gowns*'  says  she,  and  com- 
forts herself,  when  less  fashionably 
dressed  than  American  Edna  or  French 
Celestine,  by  any  one  of  the  following 
pertinent  dictums:  "There  are  those 
who*d  wear  a  cow's-tail,  were  it  the 
fashion;"  or  "Stupidity  and  Vanity 
grow  on  the  same  bush;"  or  "Silk  and 
velvets  put  out  the  kitchen  fire." 

She  meets  the  various  fortunes  of  her 
work-a-day  with  all  sorts  of  suitable 
sayings.  She  wotdd,  probably,  prefer 
to  go  visiting,  but  remembers  that 
"The  wife  and  the  cat  belong  at  home," 
and,  while  hoping  that  something  or 


someone  may  turn  up  to  break  the 
monotony,  recalls  that  "Much  may 
happen  between  Twelve  and  dinner- 
time!" The  crash  of  perfectly  good 
china  will  be  met  with  "Alas!  how 
soon  do  luck  and  crockery  go  to  smash !" 
and  the  little  n\irse  -maid's  complaint 
that  the  washerwoman  is  cross  and 
goes  about  looking  "as  if  her  parsley 
had  been  spoiled  by  the  hail,"  or  as  if 
"the  chickens  had  run  off  with  her 
bread,"  with  the  request  to  be  sure  and 
stroke  "Minna's  fur  the  right  way," 
because,  as  everyone  well  knows,  Minna 
has  got  to  "be  handled  like  a  raw  egg." 
When,  along  about  three  o'clock,  a 
friend  drops  in  "for  coffee,"  the  two 
ladies  chat  away  in  most  picturesque, 
proverb  -  decorated  language.  The 
announcement  of  someone's  engage- 
ment gives  rise  to  "Love  and  good 
judgment  never  did  and  never  will 
walk  hand  in  hand;"  the  tolerant 
"Every  saucepan  sooner  or  later  finds 
its  lid;"  or  the  more  acrid  "Crooked 
saucepan,  crooked  lid."  A  contradicted 
report  brings  "Lies  have  short  legs  and 
can't  run  far,"  the  exceedingly  true 
''maybe''  is  half  a  lie,"  and  "The  tongue 
has  no  bones,  but  gives  many  a  hard 
knock."  Incompetent  Frau  Schmieder 
is  described  as  "eating  cake  to  save 
bread,**  and  as  "himting  for  a  lost 
penny  with  a  three-penny  candle;" 
both  ladies  will  then  sigh  yes,  yes, 
"Money  is  a  good  slave  but  a  bad 
master,"  and  will  discuss  Herr  Schma- 
lix,  who  has  amassed  a  fortune  in 
six  short  years,  despite  the  fact  that 
"Luck  comes  a-limping  and  goes  a- 
nmning."  One  lady  will  sagely  remark 
"Gold  shows  no  stains  and  rusts  not," 
and  the  other  will  regret  that  "Some 
have  the  money  and  others  but  the 
purse." 

(Continued  on  Page  804) 


784 


IDEAS   U 
ECONOMIES 


Contribution*  to  thiB  deputment  will  be  gladly  received.     Accepted  Items  will  be 
paid  for  at  reasonable  ratea. 


Foot  Ease  for  the  Housewife 

ONE  of  the  first  requisites  for  the 
hoiisewife's  comfort  is  to  be  pro- 
perly shod.  The  house  shoe  is,  pre- 
ferably, of  soft  pliable  kid  or  canvas 
with  low  broad  heels  capped  with 
rubber.  A  fairly  heavy  sole  insures 
the  greatest  ease  for  those  who  are 
compelled  to  stand  much.  Great  care 
shoidd  be  exercised  in  the  fit,  as  shoes 
that  are  either  too  large  or  too  small 
inevitably  produce  corns. 

If  these  should  appear,  much  relief 
can  be  obtained  by  rubbing  with 
pumice  stone, 

A  com  remedy  which  our  foremothers 
swore  by  was  a  poultice  made  of  bread 
crumbs  that  had  been  soaked  in  cider 
vinegar  for  half  an  hour  or  longer. 
This  was  bound  on  the  affected  toe 
over  night;  after  which  the  com  was 
easily  dislodged.  This  is  in  line  with 
the  treatment  that  prescribed  the  bind- 
ing on  of  salt  pork  rind  for  a  sore 
or  stubbed  toe,  and  I  have  heard  more 
than  one  old  Yankee  Graybeard  testify 
to  it's  efflcacy. 

There  is  nothing  much  more  disas- 
trous for  the  foot's  well-being  than 
wearing  a  boot  that  is  too  short,  for 
enlarged  joints  or  bunions  are  the 
painful  result.  Some  relief  is  afforded 
such  a  condition  by  wearing  bunion 
plasters,  which  help  lessen  the  pressure. 
Where  there  is  much  inflammation 
surrounding  the  joint,  an  occasional 
painting  with  tincture  of  iodine  will 
alleviate  the  suffering. 


People  whose  feet  have  a  tendency 
to  perspire  excessively  should  use  borax 
in  the  footbath  and  then  dust  the  feet 
thoroughly  with  lycopodium. 

Mr.  Weston,  the  champion  walker, 
after  a  long  sprint,  always  bathes  his 
feet  in  warm  water  in  which  a  generous 
amount  of  sea-salt  has  been  dissolved. 
On  removal  from  this  bath,  he  rubs  his 
feet  enthusiastically  for  some  moments 
with  a  rough,  coarse  towel.  For  tired, 
aching  feet  there  is  no  better  treatment. 
Swollen  feet  are  sometimes  benefited 
by  bathing  in  water  in  which  wood- 
ashes  have  been  boiled.  It  is  under- 
stood that  the  water  is  strained  before 
using. 

Some  women  cannot  take  a  ramble 
of  any  length  without  incurring  blistered 
feet.  This  can  be  obviated,  at  the  out- 
set, by  rubbing  the  soles  of  the  stockings 
worn  with  pure  castile  soap,  and  by 
softening  the  soap  with  water  and 
applying  to  the  sides  and  bottom  of 
the  feet. 

In  summer,  when  the  feet  seem  to 
tire  most  easily,  a  satisfying  sense  of 
refreshment  follows  a  dusting  with 
talcum  powder,  slipping  on  fresh  hosiery 
and  a  change  of  shoes. 

Not  only  the  shoes  but  the  surface 
on  which  one  stands  has  much  to  do 
with  foot-fatigue.  The  favorite  foot- 
rug  for  those  who  are  obliged  to  stand 
a  great  deal  is  the  fibre  matting  made 
from  "Coir",  the  outer  husk  of  the 
cocoanut.  It  "gives"  most  agreeably 
to  the  tread.  Rugs  of  this  material, 
placed   in   front   of  the    stove,    table 


786 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


sink,  or  wherever  the  housewife  must 
stand  for  long  periods,  will  contribute 
mudi  toward  foot  comfort. 

In  cold  weather,  chilblains  are  often 
the  housekeeper's  bane.  Tincture  of 
myrrh  diluted  with  warm  water  is 
very  healing;  while  bathing  night  and 
,  morning  with  witch  hazel  is  also  bene- 
ficial. An  old-time  remedy  much" 
favored  by  our  grandsires  was  a  poul- 
tice of  roasted  turnip  and  one  that 
often  proved  effectual  in  the  most 
stubborn  cases. 

It  is  the  height  of  folly  for  the  domes- 
tic woman  to  slight  either  care  or 
shoeing  of  her  "trilbies",  for,  day  in 
and  day  out,  ill-treated  feet  retaliate 
by  handicapping  a  good  deal  of  worth- 
while efficiency.  e.  r.  w. 

*     ♦     ♦ 

Table  Center  Piece 

AVERY  pleasing  centerpiece  for 
the  dinner  table  is  a  small 
fern  dish  or  brass  jardiniere  in  which 
the  seed  of  the  grape  fruit  has  been 
freely  planted  and  given  six  or  eight 
weeks  to  get  well  started. 

The  glossiness  and  freshness  of  the 
foliage  is  beautiful  and  the  effect 
on  the  table  excellent. 

A  Garden  Symphony  in  Yellow 

MORE  and  more  are  we  working 
out  distinct  color  schemes  in 
house  furnishing,  wearing  apparel,  and 
now  in  gardening. 

No  color  is  more  noticeable  in  nature 
and  none  more  important  or  practical 
than  yellow. 

A  long,  irregular  shaped  border  in 
varying  shades  of  yellow  affords  a 
vast  amount  of  beauty  and  enjoyment, 
not  only  to  those  who  plant  and  own 
it,  but  to  all  passers-by. 

By  beginning  in  a  modest  way  and 
raising  one's  own  plants  from  seed, 
this  need  not  be  at  all  expensive. 

One  might  almost  start  in  as  did 
the  woman  who  has  what  she  calls 
her   friendship   garden^    her   different 


friends  giving  her  a  plant,  a  few  btilbs 
or  seed  of  their  own  raising.  This 
particular  garden  is  an  old-fashioned 
one  and  most  attractive. 

A  number  of  wild  flower  roots  can 
be  taken  up  and  transplanted  with 
good  results,  such  as  brown-eyed 
Susans  and  golden  rod.  This  border 
should  contain  marguerites,  coreopsis, 
both  annual  and  perennial,  in  all  the 
yellow  hues,  marigold,  zinnias,  hel- 
iopsis,  dahlias,  calliopsis,  gladioli, 
snap-dragons,  cannas,  golden  glow, 
and  sun  flowers. 

For  low  bedding  plants,  use  old- 
fashioned  portulaca,  CaUfomia  poppies, 
pansies,  daisies,  nasttutiums  and  the 
annual  coreopsis. 

The  double,  yellow  hollyhocks  make 
a  pretty,  striking  back  ground  as 
does  the  golden  glow  when  used  in 
large  clumps. 

Lemon  lilies  are  beautiful  and 
fragrant. 

One  is  greatly  surprised,  after  giving 
attention  and  study  to  this  color 
scheme,  to  find  what  an  astonishingly 
large  number  of  yellow  flowers  there 


are. 


\j  m        AS.        At 


A  Little  Knowledge  is  a  Dangerous 

Thing 

*  *  /^^  OME ,  go  home  with  me" ,  said  Julia 
V_>  Hill  one  night  after  school, 
some  time  after  I  had  matriculated  at 
the  temple  of  learning  in  the  little 
town  to  which  our  family  had  recently 
moved.  As  I  was  a  green  little  city 
girl,  who  had  been  made  to  feel  my 
abysmal  ignorance  of  the  essential 
features  of  country  life,  I  felt  highly 
honored  by  this  unexpected  attention 
from  the  tall  girl  who  seemed  so  wonder- 
fully capable. 

Needless  to  say,  I  accepted  the 
invitation  with  joy,  with  the  necessary, 
tho*  hateful  proviso,  if  my  mother 
would  let  me.  Julia  looked  down  upon 
me  from  her  superior  height  and 
gave  me  the  impression  t!hat  she  did 


r 


HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 


787 


not  have  to  ask  her  mother  for  such 
privileges,  but  did  only  as  she  herself 
pleased. 

However,  the  desired  permission  was 
readily  given,  as  my  mother,  in  com- 
mon with  most  city-bred  people,  had 
a  vague  idea  that  a  farm  is  the  safest 
of  places  for  children,  and  the  Hills 
lived  on  a  farm  on  the  edge  of  the  town. 

We  were  soon  on  our  way  and  Julia 
amused  herself  and  amazed  me  by 
exhibiting  various  feats  of  strength 
and  skill,  such  as  vaulting  fences, 
pulling  herself  up  into  trees,  and  jump- 
ing over  a  little  brook  that  meandered 
across  the  road.  If  her  object  was 
to  arouse  my  envy,  she  was  wholly 
successful,  for  it  was  my  passionate 
desire  to  do  all  the  things  denied  to 
me  by  reason  of  my  small  siz^  and 
puny  strength.  To  be  tall  and  strong 
was  the  height  of  my  ambition,  and 
I  think  Julia  must  have  divined  it, 
for  she  **  showed  off"  with  all  the  superb 
self-satisfaction  of  a  twelve  year  old 
girl  who  is  taller  and  stronger  than 
any  of  her  school  mates. 

On  the  way  she  confided  to  me  her 
special  reason  for  such  condescension. 
Her  mother  was  away  for  the  evening, 
and  she  must  get  the  supper  and  do 
the  other  work.  **And",  said  she, 
**I  must  make  biscuit,  if  there  is  not 
enough  bread." 

Town-bred  as  I  was,  the  natural 
thing  to  do  under  such  circumstances 
would  have  been  to  send  to  the  bake- 
shop,  and  I  said  so,  only  to  be  withered 
by  the  scorn  with  which  she  repudiated 
the  idea  of  having  * 'baker's  bread". 
And  again  I  felt  the  sickening  sense 
of  inferiority  that  always  oppressed 
me  in  the  company  of  girls  who  were 
skilled  in  housewifely  arts. 

Noticing  my  evident  discomfiture, 
Julia  proceeded  to  dilate  upon  her 
various  accomplishments  in  the  culi- 
nary line,  beside  which  my  ability  to 
lead  my  class  in  mere  book  studies 
was  as  nothing. 

The  farm-house  was  large  and  roomy, 


and  full  of  interest  to  me,  because  her 
father  had  been  a  sea-faring  man, 
and  had  a  collection  of  curios,  common 
enough  to  dwellers  by  the  sea,  but 
strange  and  new  to  one  who  had  seen 
no  greater  body  of  water  than  Lake 
Michigan.  Jtdia's  exhibition  of  these, 
with  a  natural  pride  in  their  ownership, 
by  proxy,  completed  my  subjugation, 
and  I  was  in  a  very  fit  condition  of 
humility,  when  she  announced  that 
it  was  time  to  begin  getting  supper, 
and  we  repaired  to  the  kitchen. 

To  build  the  kitchen  fire  with  wood 
was  not  a  difficult  task  and  Julia  was 
soon  ready  to  make  the  biscuits. 
Whereat  a  difficulty  arose  in  the  way, 
—  there  was  no  baking  powder.  Con- 
sternation! 

Then  my  natural  pride  asserted 
itself  and  I  remarked,  with  the  confidence 
bom  of  the  re-action  from  unusual 
humility,  no  more  my  natural  state 
than  Julia's,  "But  you  can  use  soda 
and  cream  of  tartar  in  place  of  baking 
powder.     Mother  often  does." 

**But  I  don't  know  how,"  said  Julia. 
Ah,  ha!  Here  was  my  opportunity. 
I  knew.  Had  I  not  twice  made  a 
feather  cake  with  entire  success,  using 
the  aforesaid  combination  to  lighten 
the  same?  And  had  I  not  been  told 
the  proportion  in  which  the  ingredients 
were  mingled? 

Alas,  for  the  fallibility  of  human 
knowledge!  "For  each  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,"  said  I  dogmatically, 
"use  two  spoonfuls  of  saleratus  and 
one  of  cream  tartar."  This,  then, 
we  did,  substituting  for  the  foiu*  her 
recipe  called  for,  eight  spoonfuls  of 
soda  and  five  of  the  other,  for  good 
measure. 

Soon  the  biscuits  were  made  and 
in  the  oven,  which  was  already  in 
prime  condition,  and  Julia  was  attend- 
ing to  the  other  details  of  the  meal. 
In  due  time  she  opened  the  oven  door 
to  look  at  the  biscuit.  Ugh!  the  odor 
from  them  smote  the  air  with  over- 
powering force,  and  we  could  see  in 


788 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


the  oven  some  horrible  looking,  greenish- 
yellow  objects  no  more  attractive  to 
sight  than  to  smell. 

Julia  took  one  out  to  sample  it. 
The  taste  was  worse  than  either  looks 
or  odor.  Something  dreadful  had  come 
from  that  combination! 

Julia,  creature  of  resources  and  mind- 
ful of  some  teasing  big  brothers,  who 
would  * 'plague  the  life  out  of  us," 
decided  that  the  biscuit  must  be  put 
out  of  sight.  The  pigs  should  eat 
them!  So  we  took  them  to  the  stye 
and  offered  them  as  a  sacrifice  to 
those  animals.  Alas,  they  only  sniffed 
and  turned  away  from  them.  Thus 
I  learned  that  there  are  limits  even  to 
a  pig's  appetite. 

"Well,"  said  Julia,  "we  will  bury 
them."  And  so  we  did,  choosing  a 
comer  of  the  pig-pen  for  such  sepulture. 
Then  we  went  into  the  house  and,  on 
closer  investigation,  found  there  was 
bread  enough  for  supper,  if  we  restrained 
our  own  appetites,  so  the  disaster  did 
not  seem  quite  so  overpowering. 

The  meal  passed  off  very  well  and 
Captain  Hill  praised  his  little  cook 
in  a  way  that  would  have  seemed 
very  fine,  but  for  the  hidden  memory 
of  those  biscuit. 

Alas,  it  was  only  the  memory  that 
was  hidden,  for  after  supper  Lorenzo 
and  Alonzo,  huge  scions  of  the  house, 
went  out  to  do  the  chores,  while  Julia 
and  I  did  the  dishes.  Presently  with 
a  great  guffaw  the  boys  burst  into 
the  kitchen.  The  pigs  had  up-rooted 
the  biscuit  and  the  boys  had  discovered 
them. 

This  is  a  good  place  to  close  the  story. 
I  would  fain  draw  a  veil  over  the  humil- 
iation that  followed,  and  forget  how 
I  ever  after  would  turn  a  corner  and 
nm  as  fast  as  I  could  to  escape,  when- 
ever I  saw  Alonzo  or  Lorenzo  in  the 
village.  Julia  magnanimously  laid  all 
the  blame  upon  me,  and,  in  my  heart 
of  hearts,  I  knew  that  I  was  only 
properly  punished  for  assuming  to 
know  that  which   I  did  not.     But  to 


this  day  I  never  hear  the  phrase  "soda 
biscuit"  that  my  face  does  not  flush 
with  the  memory  of  my  first  biscuit, 
when  I  learned  that  a  little  knowledge 
is  a  dangerous  thing.  w.  h.  h.  t. 

«     *     • 

An  Explorer's  Diet 

WHEN  Arch  Deacon  Hudson 
Stuck  climbed  Mt.  McKinley 
in  Alaska,  he  planned  a  more  successful 
diet  than  the  former  explorers  of  that 
great  peak  had  tried;  they  failed 
because  they  had  canned  food. 

The  writer  was  informed  by  him 
that,  since  it  was  a  fine  game  country 
around  the  mountain,  the  party  shot 
caribou  and  mountain  sheep  and  made 
a  variety  of  pemmican  of  it.  He 
boiled  the  meat  thoroughly  and  minced 
it  fine.  This  he  made  with  butter  into 
balls  and  froze  them  hard.  The  broth 
was  reduced  to  the  thickest  possible 
meat  jelly  or  "stock".  A  favorite 
and  satisfying  meal  that  did  not  doy 
the  appetite  was  some  of  thispemmican, 
heated,  and  rice,  some  German  pea- 
meal  sausage,  and  about  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  the  meat  broth  made  into 
bouillon  to  drink. 

For  the  very  high  altitudes,  they  kept 
tea,  almonds,  chocolate,  etc.,  etc. 

In  Switzerland  the  guides  eat  choco- 
late and  lump  sugar,  since  these  can 
be  readily  carried  in  difficult  places 
where  every  ounce  counts. 

Some  Pensylvania  Recipes 
Pineapple  and  Cherries 

A  very  nice  preserve  made  up  in 
Montgomery  County  is  of  morello 
sour  cherries  with  pineapple.  The 
appearance  is  of  cherry  preserve,  but 
the  more  delicious  flavor  betokens  at 
once  what  has  been  added.  Cut  the 
pineapple  very  fine.  Allow  one  to 
about  five|orsix  quarts  of  seeded  cherries, 
according  to  the  size  and  flavor  of  the 
pineapple. 

A  good  morello  cherry  preserve  is 
nice  by  itself,  but  when  the  variety  is 


HOME  IDEAS  AND  ECONOMIES 


789 


not  as  fine  as  it  might  be,  but  still 
too  good  a  crop  not  to  be  utilized, 
this  addition  of  pineapple  will  be  very 
welcome.  Of  course  the  fresh  pine- 
apple, full  of  flavor,  is  best  but,  if  not 
available,  use  some  of  the  canned  or 
preserved  pineapple  readily  obtained 
of  any  grocer. 

Canned  Fidd  Mushrooms 

The  fields  belonging  to  the  family, 
giving  these  recipes,  are  white  with 
fine  mushrooms,  for  weeks  every  stun- 
mer,  and  so  many  are  gathered  for 
stews,  and  broils,  and  fritters,  that 
the  family  are  weary  of  them.  The 
Italian  laborers  are  sated,  and  only 
the  ravenous  automobilists,  at  the 
Inn  in  ever-varying  numbers,  never 
get  enough. 

And  yet,  in  winter,  these  mushrooms 
give  an  agreeable  change,  added  to 
various  dishes  and  gravies,  or  soaked 
and  stewed;  for  the  custom  from  year 
to  year  has  been  to  dry  them.  Canning 
had  not  proved  a  success  until  the 
following  was  tried;  that  is,  to  stew 
them  until  thoroughly  sterilized  and 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  to  a 
fair-sized  saucepan  or  kettle.  Also  two 
cloves  were  added,  since  these  would 
be  suitable  in  any  soup  or  made  dish. 

Pickled  Mushrooms 

For  pickled  mushrooms  only  the 
tiniest  and  firmest  buttons  are  chosen. 
These  are  boiled  in  diluted  vinegar  for 
ten  minutes.  One  third  water  being 
used  for  strong  vinegar.  Celery  and 
a  little  spice  are  added,  and  they  are 
sealed  in  pint  glass  jars. 

To  Save  on  the  Gas  Bill;  Burn 
Newspapers 

IN  siunmer  many  houses  are  arranged 
to  dispense  with  the  coal  range 
and  cook  by  a  gas  range  and  heat  the 
bath-boiler  by  another  gas  heater. 
Whatever  the  way  may  be,  whether  a 
gas  cooker  or  simple  hot  plate,  etc., 
to  heat  dishwater  costs  money.     It  is 


therefore  a  money  saving  plan  to  lessen 
the  gas  bill  by  heating  the  dishwater, 
or  even  kettles  for  washing  out  light 
things,  as  well  as  dishtowels,  by  making 
a  fire  in  the  range  of  newspapers. 
Refill  once  and  such  a  fire  will  answer 
well.  Of  course  any  bits  of  fat  not  to  be 
rendered,  greasy  papers,  and  scraps 
of  wooden  boxes,  berry  boxes,  etc.,  can 
go  in  to  add  zest  to  it  and  get  these  out 
of  the  way. 

Even  managers  of  large  rooming  and 
apartment  houses  do  this  to  save  the 
gas  bill  during  the  slack  months  of 
summer  in  town,  and  to  have  a  fire 
that  dies  down,  at  once,  when  the  water 
is  heated.  j.  d.  c. 


Bran  Bread 
Useful  as  a  Steam  Pudding  Also 


2  cups  bran  flour 
1  cup  white  flour 
1  tea  spoon  soda 
1-4  teaspoon  fine  salt 


3-4  cup  raisins 

3  tablespoons  molasses 

1  cup  milk 

1-4  cup  water 


If  soiu"  milk  or  cream  is  used,  add  one 
teaspoon  soda.  Steam  three  hours  in  a 
one  and  one-half  quart  mould.  Being 
rather  heavy  to  digest  in  addition  to 
a  hearty  meal,  the  writer  finds  it  con- 
venient to  use  it  as  the  main  article 
for  limcheon.  She  is  alone  at  noon  and 
the  recipe  makes  sufiicient  for  six  or 
seven  meals.  Keeps  moist  a  week, 
and  is  palatable  without  butter.  Us- 
ing a  fireless  cooker  to  steam  it,  and 
then  only  once  a  week,  it  is  a  saving 
in  labor  as  to  preparation  of  luncheons. 

It  makes  a  good  steam  pudding,  if 
one-fourth  cup  of  chopped  nuts  and  three 
figs,  cut  in  small  pieces,  are  added; 
serve  with 

Creamy  Sauce 


1-4  cup  butter 

1-2  cup  powdered  sugar 


2  tablespoons  milk  or 

cream 
2  tablespoons  water 
1-2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  grad- 
ually, then  milk  and  water,  a  little 
at  a  time,  and  cook  over  hot  water. 
If  it  curdles  while  mixing,  the  cooking 
should  blend  the  ingredients,     s.  b.  p. 


THIS  departnient  b  for  the  benefit  and  free  lue  of  oar  Bubiciibera.  Quettions  reUtiDf 
to  recipes,  and  those  pertaining  to  culinary  Bcience  and  domestic  economici  in  geneial.  will 
be  cheerfully  answered  bj  the  editor.  Commnnications  for  this  department  must  reach  us  before  tbe 
fint  of  the  month  preceding  that  In  which  the  answers  are  expect«d  to  appear.  In  letters  reqnefting 
answers  bj  mail,  pleaseenclose  addressed  and  stamped  eUTelope.  For  menus  remit  $1.00.  AddrcM 
4]iierlea  to  Janet  M.  Hill,  Editor.    Boston  CooKna-ScBOOL  Haoaz»e,  3T9  BoyUton  St.,  Boaton,  Mass. 


Rye-and-Indian  Bread 
Soften  one  cake  of  compressed  yeast 
in  half  a  cup  of  scalded-and-cooled  milk. 
Sift  into  a  bowl  one  cup,  each,  of  white 
bread  flour,  rye  flour  and  commeal,  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  add  one-fourth 
a  cup  of  molasses  or  sugar,  the  yeast 
and  scalded-and-cooled  milk  to  make 
a  stiff  dough.  It  will  take  about  one 
cup  and  a  half  of  milk.  Add  the  last 
of  the  milk  carefully,  lest  the  dough  be 
two  soft.  When  well  risen,  turn  into 
an  ordinary  bread  pan.  When  again 
light  bake  one  hour. 


Query  ZI66.  — "Menus  for  Institutions  of 
twenty  children.  The  Institution  is  like  a  private 
home  where  a  good  table  is  laid.  The  children 
are  from  seven  to  eighteen." 

Menus  for  Children 

(7  to  18  years  of  age) 

Breakfast 

Sliced  bananas  (very  ripe) 

Hot  Cereal.  Thin  Cream 

Hot  Bacon  (Broiled  in  the  Oven)  Sandwiches 

(slale  bread  or  hot  toast) 

Milk  Cocoa 

Dinner 

Boiled  Forequarter  Lamb  (yearling) 

(buy  halt  a  lamb) 

Caper  Sauce 

Boiled  Potatoes 

Boiled  New  Turnips 

Lettuce,  French  Dressing 

Baked  Indian  Pudding 

Scraped  Maple  Sugar 


Supper 

Lamb-and-Tomato  Soup        Browned  Crackers 

Hot  Boiled  Rice,  Milk         Stewed  Prunes 

Rye  Bread  and  Butter 

Cold  water  Sponge  cake 

Breakfast 

Native  Strawberries 

Cold  Boiled  Ham,  Sliced  thin 

Small  Potatoes,  Baked 

Zwieback  Cocoa  without  Milk 

Fowl,  Steamed  and  Roasted 

Mashed  Potato 

Asparagus  on  Toast,  Buttered 

Graham  Bread  and  Butter 

(Bread  sliced  thin) 

Tapioca  Custard  Pudding,  Vanilla  Sauce 

Sapper 

Hot  Cereal,  Thin  Cream 

Bread  and  Butter  Small  Cream  Puff^ 

Stewed  Peaches  Milk 

Breakfast 

Oatmeal,  Milk 

(no  sugar) 

Eggs  Scrambled  with  Chopped  Ham 

Bread  Toast 

Orange  Marmalade  Milk  to  drink 

Chicken  Soup 

Large  Filets  of  Fresh  Fish 

Baked  with  Bread  Dressing 

Small  cubes  of  Boiled  Potatoes 

Cooked  in  Milk  with  egg-yolks  and  butter 

(no  sauce  then  needed  with  hsh) 

Lettuce  or  Philadelphia  Relish 

String  Beans  Bread  and  Butler 

Milk  for  younger  children 

Cornstarch  Blanc  mange 

Sugar  Thin  Cream 

Supper 

Cream  Toast  Bread  and  Butler 

Stewed  Prunes         Oatflake  Wafers  Milk 


QUERIES  AND  ANSWERS 


791 


Breakfast 

Boiled  Rice,  Milk 

(Choice  of)  Eggs  Cooked  in  Shell  or  Lamb  Chops 

Creamed  Potatoes 
Bread  Crumb  Griddle  Ckaes 
Cocoa  Milk 

I  Dinner 

Choice  of  Hamburg  Steak  or  Lamb  Stew 

(fat  removed)  with  vegetables 

Baked  Potatoes 

Stewed  Tomatoes 

Floating  Island 

Supper 

Fresh  Fish  Chowder 

Browned  Crackers 

Bread  and  Butter 

Stewed  Peaches 

Nuremberg  Gingerbread 

(reduce  quantity  of  almonds) 

Breakfast 

Native  Strawberries 

Bacon  Broiled  in  Oven 

Ryemeal  Muffins 

Bread  and  Butter 

Cocoa  (without  Milk) 

• 

Dinner 

Roast  Leg  of  Lamb 

Franconia  Potatoes 

Spinach  or  Beet  Tops 

Stewed  Evaporated  Cranberries 

Junket  Ice  Cream 

Drop  Cookies 

Supper 

Egg  Timbales,  Bread  Sauce 

Oatmeal  and  Rye  Bread 

Cottage  Cheese 

Stewed  Prunes 

Milk 

Query    2167. — "Ideas    for    Simple    Sunday 

Night    Suppers,    for    above  Institution.      The 

supper  is  to  be  eaten  in  the  library,  picnic  style." 

(Children  7  to  18  years  of  age) 

Served  on  individual  Trays. 

Menus  for  Sunday  Night  Suppers 

I 

Rye  Bread-and-Ornage  Marmalade  Sandwiches 

Hot  Cocoa 
Milk 
Stuffed  Dates 

II 

Chicken  Salad  in  Cream  Puff  Cases 

Olives,  Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Little  Fruit  and  Nut  Cakes 

Cocoa 

Milk 

I" 
Hot  Popcorn  and  Milk 

Chopped  Ham  Sandwiches 

Cooked  Prunes,  stoned  and   Rolled  in  Sugar 

IV 
German  Coffee  Cake,  Toasted 
Milk  Cocoa 

Caramels 


Bread-and-Cream  Cheese  Sandwiches 
Evaporated  Peaches,  Stewed 
Cream  Pie 
Cocoa 

VI 

Crackers,  Milk 

Rye  Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Strawberry  Jam 

VII 

Bread,   Lett uce-and- Veal  Loaf  Sandwiches 

Native  Strawberries 

Macaroons 

VIII 
Cubes  of  Jellied  Chicken  Broth  (in  cups) 
Hot  Toasted  Crackers 
Sponge  Drops  Caramels 

IX 

Egg  Sandwiches 

Cocoa 

White  Cake,  Pineapple  Frosting 


Query  2168. — "Recipe  for  Salmon  Croquettes 
and  other  dishes  from  Canned  Salmon." 

Canned  Salmon  Croquettes 

Use  the  recipe  for  clam  croquettes 
given  on  another  page  in  the  "Season- 
able Recipes,**  substituting  salmon* 
picked  in  bits  with  a  silver  fork,  for  the 
clams. 

Salmon  Souffl6 

Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  butter;  in 
it  cook  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one- 
fourth  a  teaspoonful  of  paprika;  add 
one  pint  of  milk  apd  stir  until  boiling; 
remove  from  the  fire  and  add  half  a 
cup  of  soft,  sifted  bread  crumbs,  the 
beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  a  can 
of  salmon,  drained  and  picked  very 
fine  with  a  silver  fork.  Mix  all  together 
thoroughly,  then  fold  in  the  whites  of 
three  eggs,  beaten  dry.  Turn  into  a 
buttered  baking  dish  and  let  cook  in  a 
moderate  oven  imtil  well  puffed  and 
firm  at  the  center.  A  teaspoonful  of 
onion  juice  or  a  tablespoonftil  of  fine- 
chopped  chives,  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
fine  chopped  parsley,  may  be  added  with 
the  fish  for  flavoring.  Chopped  green 
or  chili  pepper  is  a  good  addition.  A 
tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  may  also 
be  added.  Serve  with  tomato,  cream 
or  HoUandaise  sauce. 


792 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Canned  Salmon  Salad 

Drain  the  salmon,  separate  into  large 
flakes  and  set  these  on  a  bed  of  heart- 
leaves  of  lettuce.  Mix  one  teaspoonful 
of  scraped  onion,  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
oil,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  red  wine  or 
cider  vinegar,  half  a  teaspoonful,  each, 
of  salt  and  paprika  and  pour  over  the 
whole.     Serve  at  once. 

Hot  Canned  Salmon 

Set  the  unopened  can  of  salmon  into 
a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  let 
boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  open  the 
can  at  the  edge  and  all  arotind  the  top, 
that  the  salmon  may  be  removed  un- 
broken. Drain  off  all  the  liquid  possible. 
Turn  the  fish  on  to  a  folded  napkin  on 
a  hot  platter.  Garnish  witk  a  slice  of 
lemon  or  hard-cooked  egg  and  parsley. 
Serve  with  egg  or  pickle  sauce  (drawn 
butter). 

Other  Recipes  for  Canned  Salmon 

Canned  salmon  may  be  served  in 
cream  sauce,  one  cup  and  a  third  of 
salmon  to  a  cup  of  sauce,  in  shells  or 
ramek'ns,  either  with  or  without  but- 
tered crtunbs.  Seasoned  with  consid- 
erable pepper,  and  mustard  if  desired,  it 
becomes  Deviled  Salmon.  With  the 
addition  of  half  a  teaspoonful  (or  less) 
of  curry  powder  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  juice,  it  is  Salmon  k  la  Indienne. 

Canned  Salmon  with  chopped  olives 
or  capers  or  both,  with  or  without 
chopped  eggs,  makes  a  good  sandwich 
filling. 

Query  2169. — "Recipe  for  Cornstarch  Cake 
and  cake  made  with  water  in  place  of  milk." 

1  cup  butter  )  cup  flour. 

1  cup  sugar  f  cup  cornstarch 

6  eggs  2  teaspoonful s  baking- 

powder 
1  teaspoonful  vanilla  extract 

Plunketis 

Cream  the  butter;  add  the  sugar, 
beating  until  foamy.  Beat  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  until  dry  and  the  yolks  until 
light  colored  and  thick;  pour  the  yolks 
over   the   whites   and   **cut   and   fold" 


together.  Sift  together,  twice,  the  flour, 
cornstarch  and  baking-powder.  Add  the 
beaten  eggs  to  the  butter  and  sugar, 
gradually,  then  add  the  dry  ingredients 
and  the  vanilla  extract.  Bake  in  in- 
dividual tins,  buttered.  Ice  or  not  as 
desired.  The  cake  may  be  baked  in 
layers. 

Cake  Made  with  Water 

}  cup  butter  3  cups  flour 

ll  cups  sugar  4     level     teaspoonfuts 

li  tablespoonfuls  cara-       baking  powder 
mel  syrup  }  cup  water  ^ 

3  eggs,  beaten  without  separating 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner  and  in  the 
order  given.  Bake  in  a  sheet  in  a  large 
pan.  Cover  with  boiled  frosting.  The 
syrup  may  be  omitted. 


Query  2170. — "Recipes  for  Rhubarb  Jam  and 
Jelly." 

Rhubarb  Jam  (Scotland) 

Select  the  red  stalks  of  rhubarb,  as 
it  makes  the  richest  colored  preserve. 
Take  off  the  strings  of  skin,  but  keep 
as  much  of  the  red  underneath  as 
possible.  Cut  the  stalks  into  half -inch 
slices,  cover  with  an  equal  weight  of 
sugar  and  let  stand  over  night.  For 
each  three  or  four  pounds  of  fruit,  add 
the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon. 
Let  boil  half  an  hour  after  it  comes  to 
the  boiling  point,  then  let  simmer  very 
gently  another  half  an  hour.  An  oiuice 
of  blanched,  sweet  almonds,  sliced  thin, 
may  be  added. 

Rhubarb  Marmalade 

1  quart  bright  red  rhu«     Yellow  rind  and  pulp 
barb  stalks.  six  oranges. 

1}  pounds  sugar 

Boil  the  ingredients  together  very 
slowly  imtil  well  reduced.  The  rind 
of  the  orange  may  be  grated  or  cut  into 
shavings  and  boiled  tender  before  it 
is  added  to  the  other  ingredients. 

Rhubarb  Jelly 

We  have  not  made  rhubarb  jelly, 
but  think  it  may  be  made  successfully. 
If  the  mixture  should  not  "jell",  it 
may  be  used  for  sweetening  pies  or  as 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


""■tiiiiifif-rif  r-. 


Buy  advertiiedGoodi— do  not  accept  •ubitilutes 


794 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


honey  on  bread.  Cut  the  stalks  in 
inch  lengths;  add  a  few  tablespoonfuls 
of  water  to  avoid  burning  and  let  cook 
on  the  top  of  the  r-ange  or  in  the  oven 
until  soft  throughout,  then  let  drip  in  a 
jelly  bag.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point, 
let  boil  rapidly  ten  minutes,  then  add  as 
many  cups  of  sugar  as  there  were  of 
juice  and  let  boil  until  the  mixture 
jellies  on  a  cold  p'ate. 


Query  2171.— "Recipe  for  Chicken  Mousse 
made  with  whipped  cream  and  gelatine  and 
served  cold." 

Chicken  Mousse 

Scald  one  cup  of  milk,  cream  or  well-re- 
duced chicken  broth;  beat  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs  slightly;  add  one-fourth  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  paprika 
and  cook  in  the  hot  liquid  until  the 
mixture  coats  the  spoon.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  add  one-fourth  a  package 
of  gelatine,  softened  in  one-fourth  a 
cup  of  cold  water  or  chicken  broth. 
Strain  the  preparation  over  half  a  cup 
of  cooked,  chicken  breast,  chopped, 
poimded  in  a  mortar  and  sifted.  Stir 
over  ice  water,  until  the  mixture  begins 
to  set,  then  fold  into  it  one  cup  of  whip- 
ped cream.  Turn  into  small  timbaJe 
molds,  or  into  a  large  mold  lined  with 
paper.  The  molds  may  be  decorated 
with  pistachio  nuts  or  truffles,  or  both 
may  be  used.  Serve  when  chilled  and 
firm  with  lettuce  or  other  green  salad. 
This  is  particularly  good  with  lettuce 
and  tomatoes.  French  or  mayonnaise 
dressing  may  be  used. 

To  decorate  the  molds,  rince  them  in 
chicken  aspic  or  butter  them  slightly. 


Query  2172. — "Recipe  for  Chicken  Timbales 
with  Sauce." 

Chicken  Timbales  (Yellow) 

Chop  fine  the  uncooked  meat  from 
:  the  breast  of  one  chicken,  (there  should 
be  one  cup  of  meat);  add  an  egg  and 
beat  until  smooth,  then  beat  in  three 
more  eggs,  one  after  another;  add 
three-fourths  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper  and 


gradually  beat  in  one  pint  of  cream. 
Turn  into  well-buttered  timbale  molds 
and  cook  on  several  folds  of  paper  and 
surrounded  with  boiling  water  until 
firm  in  the  center.  Serve,  turned  from 
the  molds  and  surrounded  with  Bech- 
amel sauce. 

Chicken  Timbales  (white) 

Pass  thfe  breasts  of  two  uncooked  chick- 
ens through  a  meat  chopper;  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  white 
pepper  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg,  then 
beat  into  the  mixture,  one  at  a  time,  the 
unbeaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  and  then 
very  gradually  beat  in  one  pint  of  cream. 
Cook  the  mixture  in  small,  well-buttered 
timbale  molds.  The  molds  should  stand 
on  many  folds  of  paper  and  be  surrounded 
by  boiling  water.  When  the  mixture 
is  firm  in  the  center,  it  is  cooked. 
Serve,  turned  from  the  molds  and  sur- 
rounded by  white  or  Bechamel  sauce. 

Chicken  Timbales 

Remove  the  meat  from  the  breast 
and  wings  of  a  chicken.  There  should 
be  a  generous  half  pound  of  meat. 
Scrape  the  flesh  from  the  fibers;  to  it 
add  the  unbeaten  white  of  an  egg  and 
pound  to  a  smooth  paste;  add  a  second 
white  of  egg  and  pound  again  till 
smooth,  then  add  half  a  cup  of  cold 
white  sauce  and  pound  a  third  time 
till  smooth.  Set  a  fine  gravy  strainer 
into  one  dish  of  a  double  boiler  of 
suitable  size,  and  with  a  pestle  press 
the  mixture  through  a  sieve.  Fold 
into  it  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten 
dry,  and  one  cup  of  double  cream, 
beaten  quite  firm.  Turn  into  buttered - 
and-decorated  timbale  molds  and  let 
bake,  set  on  several  fold  of  paper  and 
surrounded  with  boiling  water,  imtil 
firm.  Serve,  turned  from  the  molds » 
with  Bechamel  or  mushroom  sauce. 
Decorate  the  molds  with  figures  cut 
from  pimentoes  or  sliced  truffles.  But- 
ter the  molds  and  decorate  at  once, 
then  set  aside  to  chill,  that  the  butter 
may  hold  the  decorations  in  place.     Let 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Jf;^^    'f^  ^ff^^TlK  ^^  ^^  ^^  ^^    7W  ^^  ^n^  ^^TT 


#     Fight  Flies  With  Tanglefoot! 


# 


For  30  years  Tanglefoot  has  been  America's  surest,  safest, 
must  sanitary  Hy-ilestroyer.  It  is  nnn-poisODOu9,  easy  to 
use,  and  costs  but  a  trifle.  Each  sheet  is  capable  o(  killing; 
1,000  flies.  And  TnnKleCoot  not  only  kills  the  fly,  but  seals 
it  over  with  a  varnish  that  destroys  the  gemts  as  well.  In 
buylDK,  ask  for  the  genuiiie  "TANGLEFOOT"- 
you  uo  more  and  lasts  twice  as  Ion);  as  the  no-name  kinds 
sold  merely  as  fiy-paper,  or  sticky  Sy-paper. 
Made  only  by  The  O.  A  W.  TIiuiii  Co^  Grand  Rapids,  Mich. 
lavt  TaxsUloot 


0^ 


V  ^^    nr^  ^ff^  ^rf^  ^K  ^^  ^^  ^ff^  ^f^  ^^K  ^^ 


796 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


the  molds  stand  two  or  three  minutes, 
that  the  cooked  mixture  contract  a 
little,  then  unmold.  Too  strong  heat 
ruins  any  timbale. 

Bechamel  Sauce 

Melt  three  tablespoonfids  of  butter; 
in  it  cook  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dash 
of  pepper;  when  bubbling  and  frothy, 
stir  in  one  cup  of  well-seasoned  chicken 
broth  and  half  a  cup  of  rich  milk  and 
stir  tmtil  boiling.  Add  a  cup  of  button 
mushrooms,  cut  in  halves,  and,  if  de- 
sired,, the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten 
and  diluted  with  half  a  cup  of  cream. 


Query   2173. — "Recipe   for   German   Coffee 
Cake  on  a  wreath  (ring)  cake." 

German  Coffee  Cake 

1  cup  scalded  milk  \  cup  sugar 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast  ■  i  teaspKX>nful  salt 
i  cup  water  1  egg 

Flour  for  sponge  I  Grating  lemon  rind 

J  cup  melted  butter  Flour 

Make  a  sponge  with  the  milk,  yeast 
softened  in  the  water,  and  flour;  when 
light  add  the  other  ingredients  and 
flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  batter;  beat 
thoroughly,  when  light  again  spread  in 
a  buttered  dripping  pan,  cover,  and  let 
rise.  When  ready  for  the  oven,  brush 
over  with  beaten  egg  and  dust  thickly 
with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  mixed. 

Swedish  Tea  Ring 

Soften  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast 
in  one  fourth  a  cup  of  scalded-and-cooled 
milk;  mix  and  add  to  one  cup  of  milk, 
scalded  and  cooled  to  a  lukewarm  tem- 
perature. Stir  in  enough  flour  to  make 
a  batter;  beat  until  smooth,  then  cover 
and  set  aside  to  become  light.  Add 
one  whole  egg  and  a  yolk,  or  three 
yolks  of  eggs,  one-fourth  cup  of  sugar, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  flour 
to  make  a  dough  that  may  be  kneaded. 
Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Cover 
and  set  aside  (out  of  draughts)  to  be- 
come doubled  in  bulk.  Without  cut- 
ting the  dough  down,  divide  into  two 
pieces  of  same  size.     Set  one  of  these 


upside  down  (crusty  side  down)  on  a 
board;  pat  and  roll  into  a  rectanfi:ular 
sheet    less    than    half    an    inch    thick: 
brush  over  with  butter,  sprinkle  with 
sultana    raisins    and    pecan    nuts,    or 
filberts,  broken  in  pieces.     Use  from  a 
half  to  a  full  cup  of  fruits  and  nuts; 
roll  up  like  a  jelly  roll;  lift  the  roll  to 
a  baking  pan  and  bring  the  ends  to- 
gether to  form  a  ring;  fasten  the  ends 
secure  and  in  such  a  careful  maimer  as 
will  conceal  the  joining.     With  scissors 
cut   through   the   ring   from   the   edge 
nearly    to    the    center,    at    each    side, 
entirely  round  the  ring;  cut  a  little  on 
the  slant  and  turn  each  division  with  the 
scissors  or  fingers,  to  show  the  layers  of 
dough  and  fruit,  etc.     That  is,  cut  down 
through  the  roll  with  the  scissors  and 
with  them  turn  the  cut  side  of  the  dough 
upward.     When  again  light  brush  the 
dough  with  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  mixed 
with  milk,  and  dredge  with  sliced  nuts. 
Bake  about  half  an  hour. 


Query   2174. — "Recipe   for    a  Candy    made 
with  maple  syrup." 

Maple-and-Nut  Creams 

Boil  two  cups  of  maple  syrup  to  23^ 
degrees  Farenheit,  on  a  sugar  thermo- 
meter or  until  a  soft  ball  may  be  formed 
when  tested  in  cold  water.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  stir  until  creamy 
Drop  from  a  teaspoon,in  small  rounds,on 
a  buttered  plate.  At  once  press  the 
unbroken  half  of  a  pecan  or  English 
walnut  meat  on  the  top  of  each.  For 
good  results  two  persons  are  required, 
as  the  candy  "sets"  very  quickly. 

Maple  Fondant  Creams 

Dissolve  one  cup  of  granulated  sugar 
in  half  a  clip  of  hot  cream  and  let  boil 
to  the  soft  ball  stage;  add  half  a  cup  ot 
cocoanut  (fresh  or  dessicated)  and  stir 
until  creamy,  then  quickly  shape  into 
balls;  let  stand  to  dry  a  little,  then  dip 
in  maple  fondant. 

Maple  Fondant 

I  i  cups  maple  syrup      ■   \  cup  boiling  water 
1  cup  granulated  sugar  I   \  teaspoonful  cream  ci 

tartar 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertised  Goods', —  do  not  accept  substiti 


798 


THE  BOSTON  COOKIlSfG-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Stir  the  syrup,  sugar  and  water  until 
the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  the  mixture 
is  boiling;  wash  down  the  sides  of  the 
saucepan  with  fingers  or  cloth,  wet  in 
cold  water,  cover  and  let  boil  two  or 
three  minutes;  let  boil  uncovered  (in 
large  saucepan)  to  258  degrees  F.  (soft 
ball).  Turn  the  syrup  upon  a  large 
platter  or  marble,  wet  with  cold  water. 
When  cold  work  with  a  wooden  paddle 
until  creamy;  gather  into  a  mass,  cover 
with  a  damp  cloth  and  let  stand  an 
hour  or  more;  pack  into  a  jar,  cover 
clo^iely  and  set  aside  for  twelve  hours  or 
longer.  To  use,  melt  over  warm  water, 
beating  constantly,  meanwhile. 

Query  2175.— "Recipes  for  Fish  Timbalc." 

Fish  Timbale 

Use  the  recipes  given  for  chicken 
timbales,  in  answer  to  Query  2172. 
Halibut,  floimder,  salmon  and  sword- 
fish  are  suitable  for  this  use.  Bass,  cod, 
haddock  and  sea  trout  are  two  watery  to 
give  good  results. 


Query  2176. — "What  is  the  correct  way  of 
carving  a  Leg  of  Lamb." 

.:   Carving  a  Leg  of  Lamb 

Authorities  are  about  evenly  divided 
as  to  whether  the  outer  or  the  under  side 
of  the  leg  shall  be  set  uppermost  on  the 
platter  and  be  carved  first  The  out- 
side gives  the  largest  number  of  slices 
and  slices  of  the  largest  size ;  slices  from 
the  under  side  are  thought  to  be  more 
tender.  Cut  directly  across  the  thickest 
portion  of  which  ever  side  is  set  upper- 
most on  the  platter,  then  slant  the  knife 
and  cut  the  slices  from  the  bone  below. 


Query  2177. — "Recipe  for  a  Date  Pudding. 

Date  Souffle 


»» 


\  lb.  dates 

5  whites  of  eggs 

\  cup  sugar 


1  pint  milk 

3  yolks  of  eggs 

\  cup  sugar 

\  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Clean  the  dates  in  boiling  water, 
drain,  remove  stones,  and  cut  the  flesh 
in  bits.  Beat  the  whites  dry;  fold 
in  the  sugar  and  the  dates,  turn  into  a 


buttered-and-sugared  baking  dish  and 
let  cook  in  boiling  water  tmtil  well 
puflfed  and  firm.  Serve  hot  with  a 
custard  made  from  the  other  ingred- 
ients and  chilled.  Flavor  the  custard 
after  it  is  chilled. 

Steamed  Date  Pudding 


I  cup  soft  bread  crumbs 

1  cup  flour 

2  level  teaspoonfuls  bak- 
ing powder 

i  cup  fine-chopped  suet 


}  cup  sugar 

2  eggs,  beaten  light 

}  cup  dates,  in  bits 

J  teaspoonful  salt 
cup  milk 


Mix  together  the  first  five  ingredients; 
add  the  salt,  dates,  beaten  egg  and  milk, 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Steam  two  hotirs 
in .  a  buttered  mold.  Serve  with  hard 
or  liquid  sauce. 


Query  2178. — "Is  it  proper  to  set  Oatmeal  to 
cook  in  cold  water." 

Cooking  Oatmeal 

We  see  no  reason  for  setting  oatmeal 
to  cook  in  cold  water.  Use  boiling, 
salted  water  and  cook  thoroughly. 


Query  2179. — "Is  Rice  a  proper  article  of 
food  for  one  who  is  forbidden  starchy  food.'* 

Composition  of  Rice 

Rice  contains,  in  100  parts,  12.3 
water,  8.0  protein,  .3  fat,  79.0  carbo- 
hydrates (largely  starch),  .4  mineral 
matter.  From  the  above  table,  it  is 
evident  that  one  forbidden  starchy  food 
should  not  be  allowed  to  eat  rice  in  any 
form.  This  inquirer  should  write  to 
the  department  of  agricultiu-e,  Washing- 
ton, D.  C.  for  Farmer's  Bulletin  No.  142. 


REFRIGERATORS-ICE  BOXES 

and  ali  places  where  meato  and  fbodr 
are  kept  should  be  regularly  dinnf  ecled 
and  purified  by  using 

Phtttk  Chlorides. 

TbmOdmriessDi^MkBMtauL 

Destroys  germs  and  foul  odors,  does  not 
permeate  the  food* 

Saf;  EfHdmnt  and  Eeonondeal.  SoU 


HENRY 
42  Cliff  8tr««t.  N< 


PLATT 
York  City, 


N.  Y. 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


;-:X''i:^ 


Welch's  Deserves  the  Confidence  of  Mothers 

'T*HIS  pure,  delicious,  unfennenled  )utce  of  Ihe  rinesl  Concords  is  a  healthful,  enjoyable  beverage  for 
the  children.     It  is  nm  a  mannfactured  drink.    Nature  makes  It,  and  the  quick,  exact,  sanitary 
\Fe1ch  njethod  of  pressing  the  fresh  grapes,  sterilizing  and  hermetically  sealing  their  juice  in  glass 
gives  you  all  (he  goodness  atid  whole  so  meness  ot  Nature's  best  AT  its  best  In 


Welch's 


Keep  a  case  in  the  house  for  the  use  of  your  family  and  for  entertaining  your  guests. 

TRY  THE  FAMOUS  WELCH  PUNCH 
Welch  Pnnch.  For  a  dainty,  unfermented 
punch,  take  the  juice  of  thrte  lemons,  juice  of 
one  orange,  one  quart  of  water,  one  pint  of 
Welch's  and  one  cup  of  lugar.  If  dealred,  all  or 
part  charged  water  may  l>e  used.  Add  sliced 
orangeB  and  pineapple  and  serve  cold. 


We  have  prepared  a  booklet  of  games  for 
children's  parties,  which  we  will  be  glad  to  mail 
you  on  request. 


If  unable  to  get  Welch's  ot  your  dealer  we  will  ship  a  trial  dozen  pints,  express  prepaid 
east  of  Omaha,  tor  $3.     Sample  4-oz.  bottle  mailed  for  10c.      Booklet  of  recipes  tree. 


The  Welch  Grape  Juice  Company 


Westfield,  N.  Y. 


B  iy  advertised  goods  —  do  not  accept  substici 


Exit  the  Cow 


THE  latest  touch  in  the  romance  of 
the  "soya  bean  comes  with  the  dis- 
covery that  it  may  be  used  in  the 
large-scale  production  of  artificial  milk. 
Since  1906,  the  year  of  its  first  impor- 
tation into  Europe  from  China,  Japan, 
Korea  and  Manchuria,  the  utilization 
of  this  famous  Asiatic  growth  has 
advanced  by  leaps  and  bounds.  The 
beans  go  in  the  making  of  oil  and  the 
manufacture  of  soap,  with  their  waste 
returned  to  the  soil  as  fertilizers.  Cattle 
cakes  are  prepared  from  them  for  winter 
feeding.  Soya  meal  is  in  large  demand ; 
soya  sauces  and  relishes  are  already 
widdy  known.  From  the  same  legumi-- 
nous  plant  come  vermicelli,  biscuits 
and  other  food  products.  To-day  the 
West  receives  something  I'ke  a  mil- 
lion tons  of  the  beans  each  year;  for 
England  alone  the  frieght  on  them 
amotmts  to  $5,000,000  annually. 


A  Chinaman  was  the  first  to  experi- 
ment with  soya  in  the  preparation 
of  a  substitute  for  milk,  but  the  dis- 
agreeable taste  of  the  liquid  that  came 
from  his  primitive  laboratory  made  it 
unpalatable  for  Occidentals.  A  German 
expert  then  took  up  the  enterprise, 
and  English  chemists  now  c'aim  to  have 
carried  it  to  complete  success.  The 
new  milk  is  built  up  from  a  basis  of 
casein  obta'ned  from  the  soya  bean. 
The  beans  are  treated  by  a  special 
process  whereby  all  oil  and  waste  matter 
are  removed,  leaving  only  the  pure 
casein.  To  this  basis  are  added,  in 
exact  proportions,  fatty  ac  ds,  sugars 
and  salts.  Then,  in  order  that  the 
synthetic  milk  may  approximate  in  all 
resepcts  to  real  milk,  bacteria  of  the 
required  strains,  including  lactic  add 
bacilli,  are  introduced  into  the  fluid 
and  allowed  to  act  on  it  until  "maturity" 
is  reached.  Complete  emulsification  is 
secured  by  the  process. 

This  artificial  product  is  now  to  be 
put  on  the  market  as  a  "pure  and 
wholesome  milk  of  high  nutritive  value** 
—  **a  real  milk  from  which  cheese  and 
butter  can  be  made**  —  **a  milk/*  more- 
over, "that  can  be  produced  more 
cheaply  than  the  article  obtained  from 
the  cow.*'  People  who  have  tasted  it 
call  the  fluid  "quite  indistinguishable 
from  the  milk  now  in  use,**  and  "delight- 
fully smooth  on  the  palate.**  By  var\'- 
ing  the  proportion  of  casein,  fat,  sugar 
or  salts,  it  can  be  adapted  at  need  to  chil- 
dren or  invalids,  according  to  medical 
prescription.  Everything  else  said  of 
it  being  true,  the  soya  product  has  one 
crowning  recommendation.  It  solves 
the  "clean  milk**  problem,  and  is  ab- 
solutely free  from  the  "milk-borne*' 
diseases  that  now  harrass  the  dairyman, 
the  legislator  and  the  consumer. 

—  The  Boston  Herald. 


A 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 

800 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Buy  advertiBed  Goodi  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Polly's  Course  in  Designing 

(Continued  from  P^e  765) 

the  shops  allowed  Polly  to  exhibit  some 
sample  baskets.  No  artist  ever  worked 
harder  over  a  masterpiece  than  did 
Polly  over  those  sample  baskets.  Indeed, 
they  were  masterpieces  when  they 
were  arranged.  There  were  apples, 
polished  to  the  last  degree  of  shine, 
plums,  pears  and  luscious  grapes.  Little 
pie-pumpkins,  squashes,  immaculate 
beets  and  carrots,  celery,  cabbage, 
cauliflower  and  lettuce  filled  other 
baskets.  Everything  which  the  farm 
produced  was  represented.  Polly's 
brothers  grew  almost  as  enthu^astic 
as  she  and  selected  for  her  the  most 
perfect  specimens  of  their  kind.  The 
younger  children  helped  Polly  weave 
some  of  the  smaller  baskets.  These 
were  filled  with  nuts  and  some  of  the 
smaller  fruits.  Little  jars  of  preserves 
and  jellies,  which  PoUy  had  carefully 
made  under  the  mother's  supervision, 
found  their  way  into  some  of  the 
baskets. 

Polly's  baskets  charmed  the  city 
customers.  She  had  to  work  early  and 
late  to  fill  the  orders  that  came  pouring 
in  for  the  Thanksgiving  and  Christmas 
trade.  Even  her  father  grew  interested 
in  spite  of  himself.  Never  before  had 
the  produce  of  the  MacDougall  farm 
brought  such  prices  as  when  manipu- 
lated by  Polly's  artistic  fingers.  Even 
doughnuts,  made  by  Mrs.  MacDougall's 
choice  recipe,  cookies  and  little  home- 
made cakes  were  pressed  into  service 
to  fill  some  of  the  baskets. 

It  was  a  wealthy  Polly  who  sat  down 
to  figure  up  her  gains.  She  said  to 
her  father,  "If  I  pay  you  what  the 
fruits  and  vegetables  would  have 
brought,  had  you  sold  by  the  old  method, 
then  I  will  have  earned  all  the  rest  by 
myself,  won't  I?"  Mr.  MacDougall 
looked  down  at  her  proudly,  "Keep 
it  all,  little  girl,"  he  said,  "and  use 
it  for  that  course  in  Designing  at  the 
Institute.  You  have  shown  me  that 
artistic  girls,  as  well  as  stenographers. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Combination   Coal   and  Gas 

Q&mioiid 


You  need  a  coal  range  in  Winter  for  kitch- 
en warmth  and  for  continuous  hot  water 
supply,  but  in  Summer  when  you  want  a 
cool  kitchen  and  less  hot  water  a  Gas  range 
is  the  thing.  You  get /»o</rin  theCra-wford 
Combination  Range  and  you  get  the  best  of 
cd.cli 

The  Oawford  Ga«  Oveiw  are  tqfe; 
are  impotsible.  .  J^  the  End  Ovens 
in  extra  set  of'bumers  at  the  top 

Crawford  Ranges  are  the  only 
hat  have  the  wonderful  "Single 
(patented),  the  Ash  Hod  and  Coal 
tie  base  (patented),  and  the  Cup- 
Joint   Oven^  Flues   that  heat  all 
parts    of  the 
oven   alike. 
No  "cold  cor- 
ners"    nor 
irching    spots" 
rawford  Ovens. 


Doabim  Go*  Omn«  at  Top  of  Rtmgo 


WALKER  a,  PRATT  MFG.  COMPANY,  J'ofXTAls; 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitut 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


The  New 


HESt!^ 


Can  be  "Made  in  a  Ji^" 

With  the  aid  of  fruit,  berries,  whipped 
cream,  etc.,  the  practical  housewife  can 
serve  Nesnah  in  an  endless  variety  of 
dainty  and  attractive  fonns. 


You  simply  dissohre  it  in  milk  or  cream, 
let  stand  a  few  moments,  and  you  have, 
ready  to  serve,  a  moat  exquisite  dessert. 

It  is  the  one  ttifr,  MkJNi  iMd-dMwt 
Not  to  he  confounded  with  gelatine  Drep- 
arations. 

NINE  FLAVORS 

nSTACHIO 


VAIIIUA 
flBOCOUTB 
OBAHGB 
lEHON 


10c. 


Packagi 

Al  AU  Gracwa 

SwDfJe  aent  free 
— fuU-dze  package 
on  receipt  of  10 
Cents.  State  choice 
of  flavor. 


IteJankitFolks' 


German  Home  and  ICitchrn 
Proverbs 

(Continued  from  P^e  784) 


The  sad  case  of  Frau  MuUer,  forced 
in  her  old  age  to  enter  a  Home,  shows 
how  true  it  is  that  "One  mother  can 
better  care  for  ten  children  than  ten 
children  for  one  mother;"  and  careless 
Onkel  Franz,  badly  cheated  by  a  much 
too  clever  brother-in-law,  shows  that 
you  must,  "If  your  best  friend  is  a 
fox,  keep  an  eye  on  your  chickens." 

Whatever  the  topic,  whatever  its 
lesson,  there's  a  proverb  to  fit  it: 

"Roasted  chickens  lay  no  eggs." 

"The  day  breaks  even  though  the 
cock  crow  not." 

"Pills  must  be  swallowed,  not  chewed." 

"Even  a  blind  hen  will  sometimes 
find  a  grain  of  com." 

"First,  I  and  mine;  then,  thou  and 
thine." 

"Never  crawl  where  you  might  soar." 

"A  full  stomach  hates  to  study." 

"Adam's  children  are  just  like  Adam." 
and  the  sardonic: 

"Adam  just  had  to  have  an  Eve  on 
whom  to  blame  his  own  misdoings." 

A  bashful  swain  hovers  around  a 
girl  like  "the  cat  round  the  hot  mush:" 
and  a  favorite  dish,  a  crowd,  or  the 
housekeeping  money,  as  they  rapidl>' 
disappear,  "melt  away  like  butter  in 
the  sun."  An  unexpected  happening, 
an  incredible  story,  will  make  the 
German  housekeeper  say,  "Well,  ueW. 
Will  some  one  please  fry  me  a  couple 
of  storks!"  and  a  sad  tale  of  worn, 
anxiety,  or  anticipated  hard,  bad  luck, 
will  bring  from  her  the  consoling  "So 
broth  is  ever  eaten  as  hot  as  it  is  ladled 
out  in  the  kitchen."  And  one  of  the 
truest  words  ever  spoken  shall  'round 
up  this  little  collection:' 

"Eggs  and  'ihey-says'  are  brittle; 

beware! 

For  an  egg,  once  broken;   and  a  'the;- 

say'  once  spoken. 

Will  never,  no  never,  become  whole  b\' 

repair!" 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


advertised  goods  —  do  not  accept  substitutes 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Trtat  For  You 

Let  the 

Knox  Cooks 

send  you  enough 

W--        SPABKUNS        ^ 

QILATINE 

to  make  six  plates  of 
Cherry  Sponge 

1   HblapoMful  Kdoi  SpuUbi  Cduw. 
H  cw  «>U  -la       1  c»P,^  -^^  !"«■ 

ioJ  gtUmie  ia  *t  cold -UH  5  miiiiiw  tad  *i->We 
he  hoi  chmr  iii«.  Add  Chona  IKoDid  ood  tut 
-alvc«)>ad  ItfUcAiuin.  WhcD  >eflT  ■■  «ld  uid  be- 
II.X  lo  Kl,  idd  whua  ot  2  trai  beoloi  uolil  •df 


NOTE:     Thn  MM  rtciiie  B.y  be  UKd  wkh  olhct 

THIS  will  be  our  beat  lo  you  (or 
the  month  of  May.  You  will 
be  w  delighted  you  will  alwayi  have 
Kdoi  Celatine  in  your  home. 

Send  ui   yoiu   groccr't   name,   i 
a<enl  lUmp  *iul  we  will  iCBd  ym 

We  want  ereiy  ie»kr  of  thii 
to  know  how  M  UH  KNOX  CI 
lot  all  kind.  o(  Deuerti.  Jell«. 
.   Shnbcti,    Saladi    am 


The  Way  to  Distinguish  an 
Imperfect  Can 

WHEN  the  housewife  is  dissatisfied 
with  Canned  Foods,  it  is  ahnost 
always  because  of  an  imperfect  can -or 
difficulty  in  opening  it. 

Occasionally,  in  making  a  can,  the 
seam  is  not  closed  perfectly  tight,  or  it 
is  injured  by  rough  handling  in  shipping, 
and  air  gradually  leaks  into  the  can 
through  some  very  small  opening  that 
cannot  be  easily  discovered.  This  causes 
the  tin  to  bulge  out  slightly  at  the  ends 
and  the  contents  to  deteriorate. 

Before  opening  a  tin  of  Canned  Foods 
of  any  kind,  whether  they  be  prepared 
at  home  or  not,  always  examine  the  top 
and  bottom.  If  the  tin  is  convex  or 
buldged  out,  it  is  best  to  return  it  to 
the  dealer.  Probably  it  is  overfilled,  or 
not  cooked  enough,  but  it  might  be 
an  imperfect  can,  and  it  is  best  not  to 
accept  it. 

If  the  can  is  sound  and  the  ends  flat, 
or  slightly  drawn  in,  you  can  be  sure  that 
the  contents  are  in  perfect  conditions. 

To  open  the  can,  remove  enough  of 
the  label  so  as  to  see  the  seam  on  the 
side  of  the  can;  lay  the  can  on  its  side 
and  insert  the  opener  right  next  to 
this  seam  and  close  to  the  top.  Now 
hold  the  can  firmly  on  the  table  in  an 
upright  position  and  work  the  opener 
away  from  the  seam  until  you  have  cui 
entirely  around  the  can.  You  can  then 
turn  back  the  entire  top  and  the  fruii 
will  not  be  mutilated  when  it  is  poured. 
If  the  can  is  held  firmly,  there  is  no 
danger  of  cutting  the  hands. 


A  Revised  Version 
One  predicts  a  future  for  the  school- 
boy   who    wrote    the    following    terse 
narrative  about  Elijah: 

"There  was  a  man  named  Elijah. 
He  had  some  bears  and  he  lived  in  a 
cave.  Some  boys  tormented  him.  He 
said:  'If  you  keep  on  throvring  stones 
at  me,  I'll  turn  the  bears  on  you  and 
they'll  eat  you  up.'  And  they  diu 
and  he  did  and  the  bears  did." 


Buy[advertised  Goods  —  do  Dot  accept  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Mi'-: 


DOES 

YOUR 
I  I  BABY 

■        Standard  of  the 
r    /  BETTER  BABY 

j^j    Movement? 

,"  '<r     H  Not.  What  ii  the 
y      ReSMui? 

In  9  case*  out  of  10  it  U  B 
quMtion  tA  Feeding. 


UfJ  If  properly  fed.  cither  condition*  being 

^r  correct,  Baby  ihould  at  least  be  Noimal 
'   In  h'ls  phyaical  development. 

Mental  development  depend*  largely  upon  s 
Htiifying  food. 

Jt 

All  milk  malte*  a  curd  in  the  Baby't  Stomadi. 
The  curd  should  be  light,  so  the  digeitive 
juices  of  the  delicate  stomach  can  act  readily 

Gail  Borden  Eagle  Brand  Condoued  Milk 
makes  a  light,  flocculent  curd  umilar  to  that 
of  Mother's  Milk. 

It  contains  the  necessary  elements  for  building 
firm  flesh  and  bone.  The  baby  b  Mtisfied 
and  grows  normally. 

^    Send  for  Feeding  Chart  and  literature. . 

",   BORDEN'S  CONI^NSED  MILK  CO 


Em.  mi 
NEW  YORK 


r-- 


Buy  advertised  Goods  ■ 


CONSftfiSED 

IVflLK. 


>t  accept  substitutes 


^- 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


The  unexpected  guest 

will  always  find  you  ready  if  your  pantry 
contnins  a  can  of 


It  is  a  pleasure  toserve  these  dainty  dish- 
es which  can  be  quickly  prepared  with  this 
delicious  preparation  of  green  sweet  corn. 
KoralBtSoap  -Whets     Koralet  Au  Gmin- 


the  appeli 
KornUt  Puddinf— 
For  a  delicious  dessert 
Komlet  FriltM»— My 

— but  they  are  good. 


I  aide  dish 

KornUl     Breakfast 

CJcos— Start  the  day 

it  •applr  F7" . 


•  liloni 


^andiu 


d;  Hlw  our  KsraUt  Recipe 
It.  free. 

•Jkv  SiuifH  r.„md  Fr..t 
u  Dtfitdakit 

hlaserot  Canneries  Co. 

iluu  RW,  CUnkwl.  Otk. 


Your 

Soups, 

Gravies  and 
Sauces 

will  be    "just  right" 
if  flavored  with 


(Reg.  0.5.  Pal.  Off.)   * 
FknikK  uJ  Calnl^  Ih  S*^h  Saaw  u' Gnna 

THE  PAUiAPE  MFC.  CO..  M3  CfcC  *...  W.  lUWtii.  ».  J. 


In  Answer  to  Praya 

THE  author  of  "Seventy  Years 
Young,"  Mrs.  Emily  P.  Bishop, 
tells  of  one  way,  and  a  very  good  way, 
indeed,  of  insuring  an  answer  to  our 
prayers. 

A  little  girl's  brother  set  a  trap  to 
catch  birds.  The  little  girl  knew  that 
it  was  wrong,  cruel,  against  the  laws  of 
kindness,  and  altogether  inexcusable. 
She  wept  at  first,  then  her  mother 
noticed  that  she  became  cheerful  again, 
and  she  was  asked  the  cause. 

"I  prayed  for  my  brother  to  be  a 
better  boy." 

"What  else?"  inquired  her  mother. 

"I  prayed  that  the  trap  would  not 
catch  any  little  birds." 

"What  else?" 

"Then  I  went  out  and  kicked  the  old 
trap  all  to  pieces." 


Another  Higher  Critic 

A  SUNDAY  school  teacher  told 
about  in  "Everybody's",  after 
conducting  a  lesson  on  the  story  of 
"Jacob's  Ladder,"  concluded  by  saying: 
"Now  is  there  any  little  girl  or  boy  who 
would  like  to  ask  a  question  about  the 
lesson?" 

Little  Susie  looked  puzzled  for  a 
moment,  and  then  raised  her  hand. 

"A  question,  Susie?"  asked  the  teacher. 

"I  would  like  to  know,"  said  Susie, 
"if  the  angels  have  wings,  why  did  they 
have  to  climb  up  the  ladder?" 

The  teacher  thought  for  some  mo- 
ments, and  then,  looking  about  the  class, 
asked;  "Is  there  any  little  boy  who 
would  like  to  answer  Susie's  question'" 


The  Real  Question 

"My  son."  said  the  father  impress- 
ively; "suppose  I  should  be  taken 
away  suddenly,  what  would  become 
of  you?" 

"Why,"  said  the  son  irreverently. 
"I'd  stay  here;  the  question  is,  what 
would  become  of  you?"  —  Ladies  Home 
Journal. 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  suhi titutea 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


A  Woman 
Can't  Help 

wanting  a  Plain  Cabinet  Glenwood,  it  Is  BO  Smooth  and 
Easy  to  clean.  No  filigree  or  'ussy  ornamentation, 
just  the  natural  black  iron  finish— "The  Mission  Idea' 
applied  to  a  range.  A  room  saver  too — like  the  upright 
piano.      Every  essential  refined  and  improved  upon. 

The  Broad,  Square  Oven 

with  perfectly  straight  aides  is  very  roomy.     The 
Glenwood  oven  heat  Indicator,  Improved  bakingdamp- 
er.  Sectional  top,  Revolving  grate  and  Roller  hearing 
Goal.  Wood  ud  Gu  Sang*.  "^''■P*"  "^^  "'^^  ^"^^  of  special  mention. 

SM™^"^»~™lr'l„^ffi!_'Srir™'ii'S^^  The  Glenwood  Gas  Range 

u>     rii>  iiiri<iiDiij.a..ard.  sttachmont,  consisting  of  Oven,    Broiler  and  Four 

burner  top,  is  made  to  bolt  neatly  to  the  end  of  the  Plain  Caoinet  Glenwood  coal  range.     It 
matters  not  whether  your  kitchen  is  large  or  small— there's  a  Plain  Glenwood  mode  to  fit  It. 

Glenwood  Ran^s 

Wrif  for tre« booklet  TBofaw Plain CfchtoatGlan wood  tnWalrBtove Ox.  Ttaiittm.MMfc  ^^M 


It  ialerHlad  Id  ■  Hpwita  Gju  Russ  iwk  for  beskUl  77, 


Buy  advertised  Goods  —  do  not  accept  aubstitutet 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Put  goodneM  i 


I  your  bread  by 


Fleischmann's  Yeast 

and  make  the  baking  eaiier  for 
yourself  at  the  same  time.  Fleisch- 
mann's Yeast  will  do  it — always. 
Send  for  our  recqw  bcxik — it's  free. 


The  Fleischmann  Company 

701  WaihlnCloii  Sbeet  New  Tork  CIt 


A  NOVELTY  That 
Does  Efficient  Work 

AN 

EGG 
SLICER 

Smwa 
Tmw  aaJEfp 

Doei  the  w«k  quicker  and  better  thwi  « 

be  done  in  any  other  way. 
One  win  be  sent  poitpaid  lo  any  pfoenl  ^^ 
■criber  at  a  premiiini  for  «ecunng  »cd  KOttag 
tt»  ooe(l)new  yearly  lubicnpliMi at  $I.W 
Cadi  pnoe  70  ceoti  each. 
The  Boilon  Cooldng-Scliool  BAagaziK  Ca. 
BOSTON.  MASS. 


POEMS  and  SONOS  ?u»^J;5St?o°: 


KlEE,  DUGDALEC0..1 


BOMESTIC  SCrEHCE  TUCflEB  WANTED 

NorWScbiakuidCDawilbnw^xiatb " 


fioc/<r/*frrFAc/-/£RS\ 

/iCe/Vcy.   (-"MI'IRE   BLDC.  Di  sv'p  i.\'l 


Buy  advertised  UocxtB  —  do  not  accept  suDKiiute» 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Tke  Natioail  Tniung  S^mI  •!  A*  J*m  Wmn'« 

CkrUtiu  Atwditiw  aff«n  a  cndoau  conna  fren  Jn^U 
Mcr>MriM.liicli>d{DclactiiTM  Utd  dvDioutTBtloiuaDiutlm- 
tional  liou«ete«pln«  •nd  cookOT,  natrittaii.  c«f«Urto  »m- 
i«mintrKW.  itSlT  "d  the  AmocUU^  «w«»*H.Ai" 
S««"MwbQBdiii«witha»d«n>COBT«ol«nc««.  ForraUfc 

•cbsdolM.  etc.,  ■ddmi  > 

SECIBTULU  DEPAHWEIIT 

^^   IN  LodMH  A— Hf  Hw  T«k  Or 

I  ESSONS  IN  COOKING  E^JfTCS 

■uIqe  >iHAnHa(.  Food  luniiiiir,  BtliBMil  IXM.lfniii  IndlOeu 
llsni.  Bp«lil  ARIcIh.  •»     Bound   In  waunirooIlHthintU,  tn  n- 

jMMliij  Idwd  of  KaiH  ^Higalu.    m  n.  MUi  R.,  CUHfs  n 


Fif«'e»»  Get    My 

Cooker  1914  Special 

Abis'ST-  Price   Offer 

Ids  In  rood  rrice  uiier 

bin*,  fuel. 


__,d  rood  lute* 

better. 

30    Days  Free  Trial 

Complete DUtfltaluiDinuin  uten- 


P  len.     Wi 


Write  for  Free  Book  and 
■ct-from-fBetoTy  prleen. 


FOR  THE  WOMAN  WHO  WANTS  GOOD  THMGS 

"SATURN- 

aOTHESUNE  REEL 


LADD  MIXER 

A  ipecially  mtde  deai.  CI«M  Urn. 
DDtuDing  Ladd  BmattTt  home  liic, 
rhich  ii  retnov.ble  ior  un  outiide.  Top 
igbly  nickeled  and  poliihed.  B;  >ll  mcaa 
M  the  bat  arttcle  ye(  mide.  BewUiful  ud 
MRKtive.  We  wmatit  it  i»tb  egi.  By 
parcel  poit  for  $1X0. 

Raadr  iurt  » 


A  round  Steel  Ball  — diut 
piool,  sickle  plated  —  war- 
ranted 40  ft.  lioMetted  to  180 
Ibi. — takei  proent  dotkeipta. 
Um  out- door  oi  in-door. 
Haagi  anjwhete.  Two 
■preadini  ringa.    Panti*elj  llie 

bcit  made  at  any  price.     NkkeUd,  hj  paicel  put  S 
Nickeled  ud  poliilied,  by  parcel  poit  65c. 


UNITED  ROYALTIES  CORPORATION,   1133  G  Broadway,  New  York. 

Buy  ftdvtrtiwd  Gooda  —  do  not  uxcpt  aubititutes 
Ml 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Every  Can  of  Mustard 
is  Dated 


tiingdsvororqnslitj'w 


to,   S»»e,'  S»vorj 

ram.  Cckrr    Sull 


mmtt  SeuoDiDr,  FonllrT 

Scuoninf,    Onion    S»- 

--JiinikUd  Flaiortnf  Eltricta. 

STICKNEY  &  POOR  SPICE  CO. 


ft 


184  Sute  St.,  Baaton 
TBE  NATIONAL 
MUSTARD    POT 


±± 


The 

EMPIRE  KITCHEN  KNIPE 

Highly  Polished  Ri^boYiid 
Finished  Handles 

EmpiM  trade  muk  regiilaed  U.  S.  PtfenI  Otce 


''PHIS  Kitchen  Knife  has  a  blade  forged 

from  the  finest  cutlery  steel,  highly 

tempered  and  ground  to  a  very  kc«n 

edge.     It  is  a  knife  that  will  cut 


For  Sale  by  nil  Duler 
t  faand,  inclo**  25c  for  cm 


SOLE  MANUFACTURERS 
The  Empire  Knife  Gi.      Winsted,  Gum. 


Summer  School  of  Cookery 

AND  VACATION  OUTING   COMBINED 


Un.  IllU'a  Summer  Cluaes  ID  Cookcrrmt'TOPO  PINO.  "South  ChBtbam  New  Hammhir 
WILL  OrCN  JULY  9.  FOR  TBB  ELEVENTH  SEASON 

Ueno  for  one  leasoD  '  CoiwoiDme  Royol  ;  Fish  Choin  Snurc  Tarts  re.  Boi 
Planned  Sirloin  Steak  Muilir«ini  Sauce:  Artirhoke  BoitDma.  Barifonk  B« 
Preoch  Bread  :  Bnia  Muffins'  Vanilla  Ic«Cl«am  (Junket)  Maple  and  NutSu 

Do  ron  wiah  to  learn  nomthing  of  marteting.  of  fond  laluen,  and  of  coolci 


For  circular  of  terms  and  other  tatormatlon,  apply  in  person 

The  Boston  Cooking-School  Magazine  Co. 


or  by  letter  _  . 
372  BOYLSTON   STKEET 
BOSTON.  MASS. 


Buy  advertMcd  Goodj  —  do  not  MXCpt  nibMJtHtci 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


Domestic  Science 

Home-Study-  Caur««B 
Pood,    bcBlth,   bouMkceping,   dothlns,    diUdNK 
For  bomein«lcen,  tuchen  and  tot 
weU-pald  potitioiii. 
•THE  PROFESSION  OF  HOMB-MAKING."  IM 
Mga  hudbook.  FRBE.    BuUediut  "Fui  Hu* 
OoonxB,''   10  ceob.     "Food    Valdb,"    10  centi. 
"  Ak  Up-n>-DATC  Home,"  IS  centi. 

UL  Wm.  OF  ME  ECOIMICS,  SIB  I.  IM  ll,ailCM 


MAGIC  COVER 

llMicCo*er  for  Putrr  Bovd  and  RdIUiv  Pin:  chemicmllr 
treated  and  bFElcnlc:  recommended  br  leadinK  teacbertoT 
coekinf.    Br  mail.  Mc. 

B.   F.  MACY 

rwMrD  If  F.  A.  WUm  4  ea.,  »•  aUHl  IHtkM  ttn  li  IH  (wM 
410  Boylatoa  Straat,  Boston.  Hua. 


A  Sewina  Machine  with  rour  drawers  autooutlc  lift  i 
or  >teel  "CertiAed /or  10  vein."    And  will  last  you 

Others  charge  $75  to  $80— Oar  price  $45 

30  DAY3  FREE  TRIAL 


F.  C.  HENDERSON  CO.  ?f^StSU?S^ 

480  Wubiiistan  Siraet,  Boaton,  MaM. 


Before  Making  up 
Anything  for  Dessert, 

observe  particularly  the  advantages  obtained  Ijy 
using 

jELL-0 


every  recipe  biiok. 


''  of  tlie   ilesserts  described  i 


brilllan'lT  uUred  »Mam  br  K<w> 
CecO  OUcai.  anUior  and  IBntralaF  i 
Tbc  KcHplea.''  will  b;  acnl  Im  lo  ■: 
Mba  write  and  atk  ns  lor  II. 
THE  GENESEE  PURE  FOOr 
CO..  L«  Ror,  N.  Y.,  and 
BrldKeburr.  Can. 


luUTTftiea.  Fnl|^lpnii^. 


Bay  wlvertiMd  Good*  —  do  not  toctft  nibttitutca 


THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  MAGAZINE 


Days'  free 
Use  m  Your 
Kitchen 

We  want  to  send  yon  a 
once  by  Parcel  Post  a  pie 
of  our  Kalumen  Ware  i 
free  test  in  your   kitct 
Wewaatyou  and  yonrneigl 
to  see  what  we  have  done  i 
ducins  this  sturdy,  lustroubi  „__. 
Pat  this  trial  piece   to  tests  no  Other  vara 
win  stand.    Banfc  It  around,  orerbeat  it. 
Then  decide  whether  or  not  you  want   to 
keep  it  aad  what  other  Kalumen  Ware  yon 
waat.     Remember,  that  alter  the  test  «« 
still  give  you  a 

S  Years'  Guarantee 
Cast  in  the  Ware 

We  Kive  you  a  written  guarantee  tracked 
by  a  bank  bond  [hat  it  will  not  warp  or 
crack  (or  5  yean,  and  I>ecause  you  may 
lose  your  guarantee  we  have  it  cast  in  every 

flece.  Kalumen  Ware  U  different.  We 
aye  worked  for  years  to  perfect  it  before 
offering  one  piece  [or  sale.  Let  us  prove 
"i  quality  at  our  risk.     Let  us   shoiv  yon 


oking  comfort. 


Write  Today 


Don't  miss  this.    Drop  a  postal 


Bmf  adTHtind  Goods  —  do  not  accqrt  substitutes 


ADVERTISEMENTS 


"The  Perfection  of  Olive  OH." 

RAE'S 

LUCCA 


OIL 


In  Tuscany,  which  is  justly  called  the  "Garden  of 
Italy,"  the  Very  Finest  Olive  Oil  for  eating  purposes  is 
made,  and  is  generally  known  and  described  in  commerce 
as  Lucca  Oil;  it  cannot  be  equalled  much  less  sur^ssed, 
by  anything  produced  in  the  rest  of  Italy  or  France.? 

S.  Rae  &  Co.,  of  Leghorn,  Guarantee  their  Finest 
Sublime  Lucca  Oil  to  be  absolutely  pure  Olive  Ojil  of 
Superlative  Quality:  —  the  produce  of  Tuscan  Olive 
Yards  only. 


SOLD  IN  BOTTLES  AND  TINS  OF  VARIOUS 
SIZES  BY  FIRST-CLASS  GROCERS 


An    Illustrated   Pamphlet 
"The  Olive  in  Tuscany" 

will  be  mailed  you  on  request 


JAMES  A.  HAYES  &  CO. 

AtfeDls  and  Im porta ra 

9>11  Commercial  Street,  Boston 


Buy  advertiaed  Goods  —  do'not  accept  jubstitutei 


It  is  delicious 

\  welt  made  cup  of 

jood  cocoa  best  ful- 

ils  the  requirements 

of  those  who  wish 

'  a  delicious  and 

nourishing    hot 

beverage,  and 

Baker's 
Cocoa 

H^n.ai>.t.oa.  jg  "good"  COCOa 

in  every  sense  of  the  word,  ab- 
solutely pure  and  of  high  grade. 

Walter  Baker  8s  Co.  Ltd. 

EiUbUibcd  17S0 
Dorchester,  Manochuaetts 


ONE  QUART 
-CAPE  COD- 

GranberrieS 

CVAPORATKD 
For   cl^t    2-ccBl 
■lamp*    mailed 
anj'wber*    la   the 
UMlted  Stat**. 

By  om  new  procen, 
we  eraponle  Cape 
Cod  Cranberdcs  faoh 
from  the  vinei  lo  ibe; 
retun  theii  naturat  fnnt  flavor,  pack  them  in 
■eaUd  packages  to  they  can  be  ■hq>ped  aD 
over  the  wtxld  and  lued  all  throu^  the  yeai. 


SD(D  rOSTU  FOK 
PARCEL  POST  OFFER 
BT  THE  DOZEN. 


It  rout  pocec  doa't  keep  tbea  *eoi]  u  bii 
■M  wMf «H  willi  &-2ceiil  lUmpe  bi  ■ 
■1  to  oae  quart  fratk  cwma- 
by  idmI,  portpaiJ  in  lh«  (J.  S. 


E^"b 


SAWYER  CRYSTAL  BLUE  COMPANY 

S*laSaIIU(*l*oU.tt>rHilSL,l«lM.N«w.tLS.A. 


Veuve  Cliaffard 
PURE  OLIVE  OIL 


BOTTLED  IN  FRANCE 


In  Honest 
Bottles 


fULL 
Quarts 
Pints 
Half -Pints 


PARK  &  TILFORD,  New  York 

S.  S,  PIERCE  GO,, 


It  givei  that  extra  touch — that 

Uebig  fini^ — to  (oups.  sauces, 

i  salads, entree*.  Liebigiathebeft 

I  stock  in  the  worid,  the  handiest, 

'  the  most  economical. 

It  is  a  powerful  digesbve.    Its 
tonic  influence  increases  the  nutri- 
ment obtained  Irom  other  foods.  Ask  (or 

UEBIG 


beene«laUUiAmorethu>l*nUL  »w 
moIparmeDtieTeiTftnllr  <a  M 
UucMcaudWD  a  VOSB  i '" 

imentiln  eichanae  snd  di. 

DM.  WritefarCatalovaep^ 


PIANOSi 


This  book  should  be  returned  to 
the  Iiibrary  on  or  before  the  last  date 
stamped  below. 

A  fine  of  five  oents  a  day  is  incurred 
by  retaining  it  beyond  the  specified 
time. 


return  promptly. 


4iTtn5JB 


^r 


^ 


\ 


