TX715 
.W73 


HB       H  HnBHBI 

■ 

H        ■ 


s 


m 

91 
H 


4  o 


T*     A 


***** 


*    AV  ^q,    's7,''    A0'  ^"•.T-«     .*"*" 


V-» 


";  ^^  ^&*  \>/  .-ate-.  %« 


»0^ 


'V^ 


j^v 


V*^P?'\/  \/^?>*  \/^§^y*  %. 


^  ,v    . .-    '*-    '"    ^    ....  ">*  """   .y 


<$>    * . .  o  »    ^ 


0         •  rt5AVv.».   .       *J 


v> 


/\  -.W-'  ******  'Hfe  /\  'Ififc  /j 


h  £  **  *y7W.-  <?  * 


>.    - 


f  -«•■  X  ,  *  .•».  \    S    .'fife. '%    ,  <?■  ,^V. 


v  ^  .veter,  ^  ,^teo  <^**  ;^,  ♦    ♦ 


v-o 


^v 


o  .  .  -      «0V  \3     "'TV;'     A 


.% 


°.      ".. 


^  ^   .: 

« -     ^ 


*.      '•«••      ,« 


o  > 


Y-' 


^^ 


4>  -  <» 


A  California  Cook  Book 


Compiled  by 


Sarah  M.   Williamson 


-sv^^S^* 


"Behold,  his  breakfasts  shine  with  reputation, 
His  dinners  are  the  wonders  of  the  nation. 
With  these  he  treats  both  commoners  and  quality 
Who  praise,  where'er  they  go,  his  hospitality." 


'*^S'*=&^a* 


(COPYRIGHT) 


'Published  b$ 

"GOWN  TALK  'PRESS 

88  First  Street,  San  Francisco,   1916 


yli3 


INDEX 

Contributions  of  Recipes   ------         4 

Foreword  ________        5 

Service  Suggestions  ------        7 

Appetizers  --------        8 

Soups  and  Sauces     -------        9 

Fish,   Fresh   and   Salt -11 

Entrees      ---------13 

Punch        ---------       14 

Flesh,  Fowl  and  Game     -        -        -         -         -         -15 

The   Economical   Hamburger  -----      20 

Rice     ----------      21 

Vegetables         --------      22 

Salad    Dressing         -------      25 

Omelets  and  Accompaniment  27 

Puddings  and  Pudding  Sauces  28 

Fancy   Desserts         -------31 

Pies  and  Fillings      -        -        -        --        -        -32 

Cakes   and   Fillings   for   Cakes         -        -        -      *  -       33 
Cookies,  Doughnuts  and  "Snaps"  39 

Hot  Cakes  and  Waffles  ------      41 

Luncheon    Dishes     -------42 

Favorite   "Kosher"    Dishes       -----      43 

Cheese    Dishes  -- 44 

'Canned"  Dishes  -      44 

Bread,   Biscuits,   etc.         - 45 

For  the  Pantry         -       iF        -f\  47 


1 
CI.A453900 


•■■';■ 


FEB  -2  1317 


RECIPES  BY 


Mrs.  Joseph    Steinhart 

Mrs.  John   Magee 

Mrs.  Carl  William   Martin 

Mrs.  Calvert  Meade 

Mrs.  Meredith   Sawyer 

Mrs.  Charles   Lincoln 

Mrs.  M.  L.  B.  Smith 

Mrs.  George  Albert  Bromley 

Mrs.  Edward  F.  Smith 

Mrs.  Larry  Gossig  Mayo 

Mrs.  Edward   Ray   Bromley 

Mrs.  Charles  Edgar  Longton 

Mrs.  H.   H.   Powell 

Mrs.  F.  B.  Jansen 

Miss  Angelica  Bromley 

Mrs.  Hortense   Steinhart 

Russell 

Mrs.  Roy  N.  Roach 

Mrs.  John  Sandford 

Miss  Irma  S.  Bromley 

Mrs.  Thomas  E.  Longton 

Mrs.  H.  S.  Whittard 

Mrs.  R.  C.  Burling 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Irving 

Miss  Lily   K.   Slinkey 

(Durini) 
Dr.  Clara  M.  Freeman 

Mrs.  Gus  Moose 

Mrs.  L.  F.  Stevens 

Mrs.  Francis    Ghiselli 

Mrs.  F.  C.  Luck 

Mrs.  C.  O.  Cunningham 

Mrs.  Amos  Pylman 

Miss  Sarah   Connell 

Mrs.  Ella   Sterling  Mighels 

Mrs.  Nelson  Page 

Mrs.  Albert   Morath 

Mrs.  John   Parke   Brownlee 

Mrs.  Gilmour  Van  Wagenen 

Mrs.  Greenfield-McDonald 

Mrs.  Charles  A.  Allen 


Mrs.   William   Key  worth 
Mrs.   S.  Secord 
Mrs.  F.  X.  Bentz 
Mrs.  Robert  Barker 
Miss  Rose  Mahony 
Miss  Florence  Byington 
Mrs.  Walter  A.  Scott 
Miss  Anna  Campbell 
Miss   Letitia  Flanagan 
Miss  Marie  Lucile  Pyle 
Miss  Seba  Rixon 
Mrs.  W.  J.  McCarthy 
Mrs.  Joseph  Nesbitt 
Mrs.  George  Alfred  Sellery 
Raphael  Weill 
George  W.  Yost 
Fred  Bromley  Jansen 
Thornwell  Mullally 
Thomas  J.  McCann 
William  J.  Taffinder 
Dr.  J.  Wilson  Shiels 
Judge  Frank  Kerrigan 
Elliott   Crews  Jennings 
Jack  London 
Allan   Miner 
Meredith  Sawyer 
Robert  Trevor 

And  the  late 

Colonel   Isaac  Trumbo 

J.  C.  Wilson 

George  T.  Bromley 

Col.   H.   I.  Kowalsky 

Henry  Clay  Smith 

Mrs.  J.  Allan  Munro 

Mrs.    Augustus    Chasy    Doan 

(Viva  Cummins) 
Mrs.    Franklin    Poore 
Mrs.  Grace  E.  Smith 
Henry  J.  Crocker 
Mrs.  L.  M.  Barnett 


A  California  Cook  Book 


FOREWORD 


IT  was  a  Frenchman  who  said  that  we  only 
eat  to  live  when  we  do  not  comprehend  how 
to  live  to  eat.  Brillat  Savarin  dubbed  Gas- 
teria  "tenth  and  fairest  of  the  muses."  De  la 
Rochefoucauld  told  us  that  "good  thoughts  pro- 
ceed from  the  stomach,"  and  Thomas  Walker 
called  cooking  "one  of  the  most  important  of  our 
temporal  concerns."  Another  philosopher  ad- 
vised us  not  to  look  too  far  backward  or  for- 
ward, since  life  is  so  brief,  but  in  order  to  be 
happy  to  fix  our  happiness  in  our  glass  and  on 
our  plate.  "Cooking,"  wrote  Yuan  Mei,  a 
Chinese  chef  of  the  eighteenth  century,  "is  like 
matrimony.  Two  things  served  together  should 
match.  Clear  should  go  with  clear,  hard  with 
hard,  soft  with  soft.  Into  no  department  of  life 
should  indifference  creep — into  none  less  than 
into  the  domain  of  cookery.'" 

Cookery  is  the  poetry  of  housework. 

"She's  a  miserable  cook,"  I  have  heard  num- 
bers of  women  remark,  of  a  friend  or  relative 
whose  cookery  has  been  sampled  and  failed  to 
make  a  good  impression.  More  than  often  this 
slur  has  been  unjust,  the  caustic  criticism 
coming  from  a  "provincial"  mind  that  can  see 
but  from  the  one  viewpoint.  Because  a  person 
cooks  in  a  manner  we  ourselves  do  not  approve 
need  not  be  proof  that  she  is  an  inferior  culinary 
artist.  Few  women  cannot  cook  at  least  a  few 
things  well,  and  just  because  you  (or  I)  do  not 
fall  in  love  with  her  concoctions  is  no  proof 
that  they  are  "poor  stuff." 

It  is  my  own  opinion  that  any  woman  can 
become  at  least  a  near-chef  if  she  cares  to  take 
the  trouble  to  master  the  art  of  cookery,  from  its 
alphabet  to  the  collegiate  degrees.  With  a  cook- 
book and  a  little  common  sense  there  is  no  dif- 
ficulty that  cannot  be  surmounted.  Of  course 
there  are  the  "born  cooks"  who  with  a  glass  of 
water,  a  leather  sole  and  a  dash  of  seasoning  can 
make  a  tasty  broth,  but  common  sense  applied 
to  the  cook-book  may  achieve  almost  the  same 
masterly  result  from  the  "made  cook."  At  this 
day,  every  woman  enjoys  doing  a  little  of  her 
own  cooking.  Not  to  know  anything  about  the 
interior  of  one's  kitchen  is  regarded  as  rather 
stupid,  instead  of  stamping  the  lady-of-the- 
house  as  an  aristocrat. 


A  California  Cook  Book 


All  of  the  recipes  appearing  in  this  book  were 
personally  obtained,  and  nearly  every  one  has 
been  tasted,  or  tested,  by  the  compiler.  The 
recipes  of  prominent  clubmen  were  obtained 
about  three  years  ago  for  an  article  on  our 
famous  amateur  chefs,  which  appeared  in  "The 
Morning  Call,"  and  I  have  taken  the  opportun- 
ity to  preserve  them  here  in  more  permanent 
and  convenient  form  than  newspaper  columns 
could  offer.  Colonel  Kowalsky,  Colonel  Trumbo, 
Henry  J.  Crocker,  John  C.  Wilson  and  others 
have  passed  away  since  the  publication  of  the 
article,  making  the  preservation  of  their  cul- 
inary creations  more  important.  The  recipes 
of  the  late  George  T.  Bromley  were  obtained 
from  one  of  his  daughters.  Mr.  Weill  permitted 
M.  Georges  Tessier,  onetime  Bohemian  Club 
chef,  and  who  possesses  all  of  Mr.  Weill's  price- 
less recipes,  to  copy  for  me  one  or  two  for  the 
"Call"  article.  Mrs.  Ella  Sterling  Mighels  gave 
me  the  recipes  of  her  daughter,  the  late  Mrs. 
Doan  of  New  York,  and  of  her  sister,  the  late 
Mrs.  Poore.  The  "kosher  dishes"  were  given 
by  a  popular  restaurateur  whose  cafe  near  the 
old  Merchants'  Exchange  was  frequented  (be- 
fore the  1906  fire  destroyed  it)  by  all  the  prom- 
inent epicures  of  the  San  Francisco  business 
world  The  recipes  were  published  as  part  of 
an  article  on  "The  Significance  of  Kosher" 
which  appeared  in  "The  Call"  of  Easter,  1906. 
None  of  the  other  recipes  has  ever  appeared 
before  in  print;  all  of  them  are  "patented,"  one 
might  say,  by  their  creators  or  adaptors. 

Sarah  Williamson. 
San  Francisco, 

October,  1916. 


The  first  cook  book  was  published  in  1390,  "The  Forme  of 
Cury"  by  Pegge.  The  "Widdowe's  Treasure"  came  out  in 
1625.  Filippini,  Parloa,  Dreyse,  De  Salis  and  Colombie  all 
published  cook  books  that  have  had  a  vogue  more  or  less 
pronounced. 


A  California  Cook  Book 


Btvrntt  §uggeflit0tt0 

WHILE  many  still  adhere  to  the  old  form  of  serv- 
ing a  dinner — soup,  salad,  fish,  entree,  roast, 
dessert,  coffee,  cheese,  fruit — the  more  favored 
way  of  late  has  been  to  begin  with  a  fruit  appetizer. 
Grape  fruit  is  popular,  either  with  the  bath  of  wine  and 
the  cherry  atop,  or  plain.  Banana  or  pineapple,  with 
mayonnaise,  is  a  popular  appetizer.  Melons  are  probably 
the  most  highly  favored  in  the  season.  A  musk  melon 
makes  a  delicious  appetizer,  and  watermelon  is  even 
more  appetizing.  Cut  the  watermelon  in  large  dice, 
lay  these  in  a  leaf  of  lettuce,  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 
Melons,  which  used  to  be  invariably  served  as  dessert, 
are  now  almost  universally  used  as  appetizers,  at  any 
meal.  "When  fruit  appetizers  are  not  liked,  a  pimento 
or  anchovy  sandwich,  the  dainty  slices  of  bread  toasted, 
or  a  tiny  sardelle  or  sardine  sandwich,  makes  an  excel- 
lent start  for  the  formal  dinner.  These  can  be  pre- 
ceded by  cocktails,  or  not,  just  as  the  host  or  hostess 
prefers.  When  a  fancy  salad  is  served  as  appetizer, 
it  is  usual  to  serve  another  salad,  preferably  a  green 
salad,  with  toasted  cheese  crackers,  before  the  dessert. 
Dinners  nowadays  are  much  more  enjoyable  than  the 
old-fashioned  heavy  meals,  for  the  alternation  of  dishes 
not  only  delights  the  palate  but  the  eye.  Fish  dinners 
are  exceedingly  popular  with  amateur  chefs.  Clams, 
oysters,  mussels  as  appetizers;  a  fish  or  clam  chowder; 
shrimp  or  crab  salad;  creamed  tuna  or  salmon  as  entree; 
any  kind  of  fish  for  the  piece  de  resistance;  and  two 
vegetables,  with  the  potatoes ;  the  garden  salad ;  and 
a  dainty  fruit  dessert,  with  coffee  and  cheese.  A 
satisfactory  dinner  can  be  given  with  a  menu  entirely 
of  vegetarian  dishes. 


"Do  it  now"  is  a  splendid  rule.  If  you  fill  the  sugar-bowl 
when  you  notice  it  is  nearly  empty  it  will  save  a  less  convenient 
step   later   on. 

A  meal  well  served  is  twice  as  enjoyable  as  one  placed  upon 
the  table  "any  old  way." 

Spotless  tablecloth  and  napkins  add  to  the  pleasure  taken 
in  a  meal. 

Form  at  a  table  has  its  place,  but  remember  not  to  place 
form  before  the  motif  of  your  being  at  the  table.  Worry  at 
violating  a  rule  of  etiquette  spoils  the  digestion,  and  takes 
away  joy  in  the  dishes. 

Give  your  guests  what  they  like  to  eat  and  drink,  served  in 
the  manner  they  enjoy,  rather  than  the  things  you  think  they 
should  like,  in  the  manner  you  yourself  prefer — if  you  wish 
to  win  popularity  as  a  hostess.  If  your  wish  is  to  be  known  as 
a  wonderful  chef,  then  cook  your  own  preferences,  in  your 
own  way. 

It  is  better  to  smash  a  cup  or  plate  occasionally  and  make  a 
little  stir  than  to  move  on  so  noiselessly  all  the  time  that 
no  one  knows  you  are  there. 

A  contemporary  of  Rossini  said,  "An  overturned  salt  cellar 
is  only  to  be  feared  when  overturned  in  a  good  dish,"  which 
is  a  good   thing  for  the  superstitious  to   remember. 


A  California  Cook  Book 


KppttxzttB 


A  Perfect  Cocktail  (George  W.  Yost) 

Half  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  a  lump  of  ice  in 
glass,  one  or  two  dashes  of  Peychaud  Creole  bitters,  a 
dash  of  orange  bitters,  equal  parts  of  Hennessy  brandy 
and  Italian  vermouth.  Stir  well.  Take  out  ice.  Squeeze 
orange  peel. 

When  a  sour  cocktail  is  preferred  the  mixologist  must 
use  lemon  instead  of  orange  and  omit  the  sugar.  For 
those  who  cannot  stand  a  strong  mixture,  the  brandy  can 
be  left  out.  But  the  art  of  this  cocktail  is  in  the  mixing, 
which  requires  the  hand  of  an  expert. 

Marrow  Toast  (Col.  Isaac  Trumbo) 

Brown  the  toast.  Fry  marrow;  cut  in  squares.  Place 
on  toast,  with  a  squeeze  of  lemon  juice  and  paprika  for 
seasoning.    Serve. 

Melons  Hawaiian  Style  (Fred  Bromley  Jansen) 

Cut  the  muskmelons  in  halves;  across,  not  along  the 
division  lines.  Remove  seeds  and  fill  hollows  with  fresh 
peaches,  apricots,  oranges,  bananas  and  pineapple  cut  in 
very  small  pieces.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  heap  high, 
placing  a  maraschino  cherry  on  top.  To  make  more  at- 
tractive cut  the  melons  like  baskets  with  part  of  the 
upper  shell  as  handle,  and  twine  sweet  peas  and  maiden- 
hair about  the  handle.  When  merely  intended  as  an 
appetizer  for  an  informal  dinner,  omit  the  decorations 
and  fill  only  with  the  cut-up  fruit.  If  preferred,  only 
pineapple,  oranges  and  bananas  may  be  used  as  the 
filling. 


You  cannot  always  guarantee  recipes  in  other  hands  than 
those  of  the  creators.  They  often  fail,  and  this  is  generally 
because  the  copyist  does  not  follow  the  recipe  exactly.  Saving 
^out  an  egg,  or  using  half  water  for  all  milk,  omitting  the 
called-for  seasoning — the  dish  turn  out  all  wrong,  and  the 
recipe  is  blamed  for  what  is  not  its  fault. 


Minucius  to  his  troops:  "Soldiers,  1  have  often  heard  that 
the  best  man  is  he  who  can  tell  himself  what  is  the  right  thing; 
then  comes  he  who  listens  to  good  advice;  and  that  he  who 
cannot  advise  himself  nor  submit  to  another  has  the  meanest 
capacity  of  all."    True  in  the  kitchen,  as  in  the  battlefield. 


A  California  Cook  Book 


IN  these  days  when  one  can  buy  such  delicious  soups 
in  cans,  it  is  scarcely  worth  while  to  bother  with  soup 
made  in  the  old-fashioned,  laborious  way.  But  very 
fine  soups,  and  much  more  tasty  than  any  other  kind, 
can  be  made  from  odds  and  ends  of  meat,  chop  or  steak 
bones,  bits  of  veal  cutlet,  etc.,  with  any  vegetables  that 
are  left  over  from  a  meal.  A  few  peas,  string  beans,  a 
carrot,  an  onion,  mixed  with  the  left  over  meat  scraps, 
and  boiled  with  macaroni  or  rice  or  barley,  with  plenty 
of  seasoning,  make  a  nutritious  and  palatable  soup.  The 
water  in  which  certain  vegetables  are  cooked  makes  ex- 
cellent basis  for  creamed  soups — bisques.  Potato,  onion, 
asparagus  or  artichoke  water  is  a  very  tasty  basis  for 
a  bisque. 

Onion  Soup  with  Cheese  (Thornwell  Mullaly) 

Slice  fine  four  large  white  onions;  put  in  a  stewpan 
with  four  ounces  of  butter,  stir  and  fry  slowly  until  soft- 
ened and  slightly  browned;  besprinkle  with  two  ounces 
of  flour;  dilute  with  a  quart  of  beef  broth  and  a  quart  of 
water;  add  salt  and  pepper  and  boil  10  minutes.  Mean- 
while cut  in  thin  slices  and  dry  in  the  oven  about  four 
ounces  of  French  bread ;  have  a  well  buttered  soup 
tureen,  bestrew  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  put  in 
layer  of  bread,  sprinkle  grated  cheese  over ;  add  two 
more  layers  of  each,  finishing  with  the  cheese;  pour  the 
boiling  soup  over,  put  in  oven  and  have  the  top  of  soup 
and  bread  browned,  and  serve.  (This  quantity  is  for 
eight  persons.) 

Lizzie's  Onion  Soup  (Mrs.  Carl  William  Martin) 

Cut  an  onion  into  small  pieces  and  fry  on  hot  pan  with 
butter  until  brown.  Use  a  very  small  piece  of  butter. 
Fry  some  bread  cut  in  small  dice,  in  pan  with  the  onion. 
When  well  browned  place  in  soup  pot  and  cover  with 
water  sufficient  for  four  plates  of  soup.  This  is  a  fine 
soup  and  easily  prepared.  The  bread  makes  just  the 
proper  thickening.  This  soup  can  be  served  with  tiny 
German  dumplings  if  desired. 

Potato  Soup   (Irma  S.  Bromley,  Concord,  California) 

Three  potatoes,  1  quart  milk,  2  slices  onion,  4  table- 
spoons butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  \l/2  teaspoons  salt, 
l/4  teaspoon  celery  salt,  %  teaspoon  pepper,  1  pound 
chopped  parsley,  2  pounds  chopped  celery.  Cook  pota- 
toes in  boiling  water,  and  when  soft  run  through 
strainer.  Scald  milk  with  onion  and  celery  in  double 
boiler.  Melt  Yz  cup  butter,  rub  in  dry  ingredients.  Stir 
until  well  mixed  and  add  slowly  a  small  portion  of 
milk.  Add  this  to  potatoes.  Cook  one  minute  and  pour 
over  remainder  of  butter  and  chopped  parsley. 

Potato  and  Onion  Soup  (Mrs.  John  Magee,  Millbrae) 

Four  potatoes,  4  onions,  water;  2  tablespoons  flour,  2 
tablespoons  butter,  1  pint  milk,  1  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley.  Cook  potatoes  and  onions  in  water  sufficient 
to  cover  them.     When  tender,  pass  through  sieve.     Re- 


10  A  California  Cook  Book 


serve  the  water  they  were  cooked  in  to  help  the  process ; 
blend  butter  and  flour  together  and  add  milk.  Stir  until 
boiling  and  then  add  the  pulp.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  add  parsley  when  serving. 

A  Good  Soup  (S.  W.) 

Ten  cents  beef  for  soup,  with  a  veal  bone.  Add  onion, 
carrot,  parsley  and  a  piece  of  celery,  with  a  bay  leaf  if 
wished.  Add  barley,  sago  or  rice  enough  to  thicken. 
Cook  until  every  ingredient  is  well  blended.  If  strained 
this  makes  delicious  bouillon,  served  either  hot  or  cold, 
with  slice  of  lemon.  The  seasoning  should  be  to  taste — 
pepper,  salt,  paprika  and  Worcestershire  sauce  (not  too 
much  of  the  sauce). 

White  Sauce  (Mrs.  Calvert  Meade,  Oakland) 

This  is  always  my  base  for  gravies — chicken,  turkey  or 
game — in  proportion  of  1  tablespoon  butter  to  1  table- 
spoon flour,  worked  to  a  cream.  Add  a  glass  of  cream 
(or  milk,  if  it  is  not  desired  quite  so  rich).  If  a  heaping 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  flour  are  used  a  pint  of  cream 
is  required. 

Egg  Crumbs  for  Soup  (Mrs.  Magee) 

One  cup  flour,  1  egg,  2  tablespoons  water,  salt  and 
pepper.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  pepper;  beat  egg  just  enough 
to  blend  the  yolk  and  white  together.  Use  it  with  the 
water  to  moisten  flour.  Turn  on  floured  board  and  knead 
thoroughly,  working  in  as  much  dry  flour  as  possible  so 
that  a  very  stiff  dough  is  formed.  Let  this  stand  for 
one-half  hour,  then  grate  on  a  coarse  grater.  Let  crumbs 
so  formed  remain  spread  out  until  they  dry  a  little.  Two 
tablespoons  or  more  can  be  cooked  in  any  soup  or 
bouillon  that  is  to  be  served.  Allow  the  remainder  of 
the  crumbs  to  dry  thoroughly  and  store  them  away  for 
future  use.    They  will  keep  for  some  time. 


Esau  sold  his  birthright  for  a  mess  of  red  pottage  of  lentils. 
Perhaps  Esau  was  the  first  epicure. 


Don't  lie  about  any  omission;  the  lie  will  prove  the  omission 
or  transgression  to  be  one.  If  the  seasoning  was  forgotten, 
say  so. 


A  California  Cook  Book  11 


Brandade  of  Salt  Codfish,  Brandade  de  Morne 
(Raphael  Weill) 

TO  make  this  dish  successfully  only  first-class  codfish 
can  be  used.  Soak  two  pound-cans  of  boneless  cod- 
fish in  cold  water  for  24  hours.  Place  in  a  saucepan 
well  covered  with  cold  water  (no  salt).  Let  it  come  to 
boiling  point.  Cover  the  saucepan  and  keep  on  the  cor- 
ner of  the  range,  so  it  continues  to  cook  without  boiling, 
about  15  or  20  minutes.  By  this  method  the  codfish  re- 
mains tender.  While  the  codfish  is  cooking  place  a  quart 
of  best  California  olive  oil  in  a  bain  marie  to  keep  warm. 
Strain  the  codfish,  first  removing  skin  and  bones  if  any, 
and  crush  in  a  mortar.  This  must  be  done  very  quickly 
for  the  codfish  must  not  be  cold,  if  possible.  Take  a 
copper  saucepan,  tinned  inside.  Pour  in  a  little  of  the 
oil,  also  two  or  three  cloves  of  garlic,  crushed  fine.  Put 
on  the  fire,  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Add  the  cod- 
fish and  work  together  thoroughly.  Add  more  oil  slowly, 
about  a  fifth  of  the  bottle,  and  about  three  spoonsful  of 
thick  cream,  working  ceaselessly.  Again  put  more  oil, 
same  proportion,  the  cream,  until  the  whole  quart  of 
oil  and  one  pint  of  cream  are  used.  Add  two-thirds  of  a 
pint  of  fresh  plain  mashed  potatoes,  rubbed  through  a 
very  fine  sieve.  Season  with  cayenne  pepper  to  taste  and 
finish  with  a  garnish  of  truffles  peeled  and  heated  in  a 
little  sherry.  Serve  hot.  (This  quantity  is  for  10  persons.) 

Be  careful  not  to  let  it  take  to  the  bottom  of  the  sauce- 
pan. It  must  be  worked  on  a  modest  fire,  moving  the 
saucepan  in  the  meantime  so  as  to  distribute  the  heat 
equally. 


Baked  Sea  Bass  (J.  C.  Wilson) 

Clean  fish  thoroughly.  Dry  with  napkin.  Lay  in 
large  fish  baking  pan,  with  plenty  of  butter  on  pan.  Salt 
and  pepper  the  fish  to  taste,  and  also  put  butter  on  the 
fish.  Bake  15  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  After  15  min- 
utes add  one  cup  of  California  or  Olympia  oysters  and 
one  cup  of  fresh  shrimps,  with  one  cup  of  sherry  over  all. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  paprika.  Bake  15  minutes 
longer,  basting  at  times.  Garnish  with  chopped  parsley 
and  lemon.  Serve.  Halibut  is  also  delicious  cooked  this 
way,  or  any  large  white  fish. 

Fish  Chowder  (George  T.  Bromley) 

Any  kind  of  large  white  fish  can  be  used — halibut,  cod, 
sea  bass  or  barracuda.  Cut  the  fish  in  large  cubes  and 
some  salt  pork  in  small  cubes.  Fry  out  the  pork  into 
"scraps."  Take  a  quart  of  milk,  let  it  come  to  a  boil  and 
set  on  back  of  stove.  Lay  a  few  large  hardtack  crackers 
at  bottom  of  soup  kettle,  and  on  this  place  a  layer  of 
fish,  then  a  layer  of  onions,  then  potatoes  cut  in  cubes. 
Season  well  with  salt,  cloves  and  pepper  and  pour  a  can 
of  tomatoes  over  all.  Then  cover  with  cold  water  and 
let  it  come  to  a  boil.  When  fish  is  done,  the  vegetables 
will  also  be  ready,  and  the  milk  may  be  added.  As  soon 
as  the  boiled  milk  and  the  rest  of  the  chowder  are 
assimilated,  the  chowder  is  ready  to  serve. 


12  A  California  Cook  Book 


Steamed  Fish  (Mrs.  Magee) 

Any  kind  of  large  fish,  such  as  halibut,  salmon,  etc., 
can  be  cooked  in  this  manner.  Put  a  tablespoon  of 
butter  in  pot;  roll  fish  in  flour;  when  the  latter  is  hot 
put  in  layers  with  celery  chopped  fine.  Cover  and  cook 
on  a  slow  fire.  Do  not  add  any  water,  but  when  done 
add  juice  of  one  lemon  and  serve. 

Codfish,  New  England  Style  (Mrs.  M.  L.  B.  Smith,  San 
Francisco) 

Soak  the  codfish  a  few  hours,  then  parboil  and  throw 
off  the  water.  Boil  again,  pick  and  extract  the  bones. 
Have  potatoes  boiled  in  jackets,  but  serve  them  peeled. 
Have  a  bowl  of  pork  "scraps"  ready  to  serve  piping  hot 
in  the  dripping.  Make  a  sauce  of  milk,  butter  well  sea- 
soned and  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine.  The  New 
England  way  of  enjoying  codfish  thus  served  is  to  mix 
up  fish  and  potatoes  and  pour  over  it  the  sauce,  with 
pork  scraps  on  top  of  all. 

Delicious  Creamed  Codfish  (Mrs.  Larry  Gossig  Mayo, 
Honolulu,  H.  I.) 

Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  double  boiler;  add  a 
tablespoon  of  flour;  cook  together  until  smooth,  stirring 
constantly.  Then  add  a  cup  of  milk  and  stir  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil.  Take  2  cups  of  codfish,  shredded  into 
small  pieces,  and  wash  in  several  waters  to  freshen  thor- 
oughly. Pour  cold  water  over  fish  and  let  it  come  to  a 
boil.  Drain.  Add  the  cream  and  some  white  pepper  and 
cook  about  10  minutes.    Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

Salmon  Loaf  (Mrs.  Roy  N.  Roach,  St.  Helena) 

One  can  salmon,  minced  and  with  bones  removed ;  4 
or  5  crackers  and  3  slices  of  bread-crusts  rolled  fine; 
milk  enough  to  soften;  1  egg,  Yi  teaspoon  each  of  sage, 
pepper  and  salt.  Form  in  loaf  and  place  pieces  of  butter 
on  top.    Bake  in  oven  about  one-half  hour. 

Salmon   with   Rice,    Scotch   Fashion    (Anna   Campbell, 
Oakland) 

Boil  about  y2  cup  rice  in  water.  Shred  a  can  of  salmon 
and  when  the  rice  is  cooked  mix  the  salmon  with  it  and 
season  with  plenty  of  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Cover 
with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  about  one-half  hour  in 
steady  oven.  When  ready  to  serve  place  slices  of  hard 
boiled  egg  on  top.    This  dish  is  good  either  hot  or  cold. 

Boiled  Fish  Balls  (Mrs.  Magee) 

Two  slices  salmon,  2  slices  halibut  or  sturgeon,  1  large 
onion,  1  tablespoon  flour.  Chop  fish  and  onion  fine  and 
add  flour.  Mix  all  together.  Have  boiling  water  ready, 
with  tablespoon  of  salt.  Drop  a  tablespoon  at  a  time  of 
the  mixture  into  the  water  and  boil  10  minutes.  Serve 
with  melted  butter. 


The  Emperor  Domitian  called  a  cabinet  meeting  to  decide 
whether  a  fish  should  be  minced  or  cooked  in  a  special  dish. 
When  the  cabinet  had  settled  the  question,  Domitian  did  not 
even  ask  them  to  partake  of  the  fish,  but  dismissed  them. 


A  California  Cook  Book  13 


lEttimfi 


Frogs'  Legs  (Raphael  Weill) 

CUT  the  legs  of  a  dozen  large  sized  frogs  in  two. 
Season  them  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg.  Fry  them  in  butter  with  shallots  chopped 
very  fine  (on  a  quick  fire)  ;  add  a  small  glass  of  sauterne 
and  same  quantity  of  chicken  stock;  reduce  until  nearly 
dry ;  add  half  a  pint  of  light  cream  and  a  small  ladle  of 
Bechamel.  Let  it  simmer  slowly  for  15  minutes.  Put  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  olives  and  a  dash  of  tabasco. 
When  nearly  ready  to  serve  thicken  with  three  yolks  of 
eggs  diluted  with  a  little  cream  and  two  ounces  of  sweet 
butter  cut  into  small  pieces.  Toss  the  whole  mixture  to 
amalgamate  it  perfectly,  and  serve  small  puff  paste  crust 
as  garnish  (flemons). 

Do  not  let  it  boil  after  thickening,  or  it  will  curdle. 
Do  not  stir  with  a  spoon.  The  only  way  is  gently  to  toss 
the  whole  mixture  and  turn  the  saucepan  on  the  side  of 
the  range. 

Calf's  Liver  a  la  King  Leopold  (Col.  H.  I.  Kowalsky) 

Pick  out  nice  young  liver,  about  5  pounds,  and  have 
skin  taken  off"  and  the  center  of  the  liver  cut  out.  To 
prepare,  have  the  center  ground  up  in  meat  grinder  or 
chopped  very  fine.  Then  add  to  this  2  cups  of  oven  dried 
bread  crumbs,  paprika,  pepper,  salt,  a  pinch  of  ground 
ginger,  one  green  pepper  very  finely  chopped  or  grated, 
one  clove  of  garlic  mashed  fine  and  four  sprigs  of 
chopped  parsley.  Add  two  well  beaten  eggs  to  the  other 
ingredients.  Stuff  this  dressing  in  the  center  of  the  liver. 
Cook  in  Dutch  oven.  Put  in  one-half  cup  of  chicken  or 
goose  fat  in  saucepan,  with  one  browned  onion.  Then 
lay  the  liver  as  prepared  In  the  pan,  and  cover.  Let  it 
simmer  slowly  about  15  minutes,  and  add  gradually 
about  a  pint  of  oxtail  soup.     Serve. 

Shad  Roe,  Pius  IX  (Thomas  J.  McCann) 

Put  in  chafing  dish  a  piece  of  butter.  When  melted 
cover  bottom  with  sliced  peeled  tomatoes,  salt,  pepper 
and  chopped  parsley ;  then  lay  the  roe  on  top  of  toma- 
toes, add  one-half  cup  of  good  dry  Rhine  wine  and  one- 
half  cup  of  chicken  broth.  Salt  and  pepper  the  roe,  add 
little  chopped  shervil  and  one  slice  of  very  fine  chopped 
up  Virginia  ham.  Slice  a  good  sized  truffle  and  put  on 
top.  Cover  the  chafing  dish  and  let  simmer  for  40  min- 
utes.   Serve  zweiback  with  it. 

Soft  Shell  Clams,  Waldorf  (Mrs.  Meade) 

Open  as  many  soft  shell  clams  as  wanted,  throwing 
away  the  hard  part  and  keeping  nothing  but  the  body. 
Place  the  clams  back  in  the  half  shell.  Add  a  little 
sweet  butter,  two  drops  lemon  juice,  and  sprinkle  over 
clams  a  little  paprika  or  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley. 
Cover  the  clams  with  a  slice  of  bacon  about  one-half  inch 
long.  Place  clams  in  oven  to  bake  for  5  to  6  minutes. 
Serve  very  hot. 

Toke  point  oysters  prepared  on  stove,  omitting  the 
bacon,  and  in  place  of  the  lemon  use  a  few  drops  of 


14  A  California  Cook  Book 


white   wine  or   sherry,   can  be   served  under   the   title 
Toke  Point  Oysters  Yukuina. 

Crab  Souffle  (Mrs.  Meade) 

Make  one  pint  of  rich  cream  sauce.  Add  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs.  Beat  well.  Add  a  dash  of  cayenne  and  a 
cupful  of  grated  cheese.  Add  one  pint  of  crab  meat 
finely  picked.  Fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  well  beaten. 
Pour  into  a  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve 
in  same  dish. 

Corn  and  Tamales  (Mrs.  Edward  Ray  Bromley,  Berkeley) 

Take  one  can  of  corn  and  two  of  canned  tamales,  or 
one-half  of  corn  and  one  tamale.  Season  with  catsup, 
grated  cheese,  paprika  and  kitchen  bouquet,  with  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste.  Bake  in  casserole  until  browned  on  top. 

Chipped  Beef  en  Souffle  (Mrs.  E.  R.  Bromley) 

Scald  the  beef  (any  quantity  desired).  Take  a  cup  of 
milk  and  thicken  with  flour,  beating  in  yolks  of  two  eggs 
when  boiling.  When  ready  to  serve,  beat  in  egg  whites. 
Do  not  cook  the  whites. 

Raisin  Fritters  (Mrs.  Meade) 

One  cup  rice,  y2  cup  flour,  y2  teaspoon  baking  powder 
in  flour,  milk  sufficient  to  soften,  salt,  2  eggs  beaten 
separately.  Grate  the  rind  of  y2  lemon ;  y2  cup  Sultana 
raisins.    Cook  in  frying  oil. 

Liver  Dumplings  (Mrs.  Magee) 

Two  eggs,  %  cup  butter,  y2  pound  liver,  *4  pound  fat, 
\y2  cup  bread  crumbs,  chopped  parsley,  white  herbs, 
salt  and  pepper.  Chop  liver  and  bacon  together,  raw,  as 
fine  as  possible.  Beat  eggs  light,  add  butter,  then  add 
meat,  seasoning  and  crumbs,  adding  more  crumbs  if 
necessary.  This  will  depend  on  the  softness  or  dryness 
of  the  crumbs  and  the  size  of  eggs.  The  mixture  should 
be  stiff  enough  to  make  a  paste  of  the  proper  consistency 
to  form  into  balls.  Divide  into  portions;  roll  smooth  in 
hands.    Poach  in  boiling  water.    Cook  about  15  minutes. 


PUNCH 

(Mrs.  Charles  Edgar  Longton) 

Ten  cups  sugar,  7l/2  cups  water.  Boil  twenty-five 
minutes.  Three  cans  pineapple,  \y2  gallons  white  wine, 
3  dozen  limes,  1  pint  rum,  1  pint  sherry  or  champagne, 
1   bottle  maraschino  cherries. 


Louis  VI  created  a  cold  pate  of  larks  which  is  said  to  have 
been   delicious. 


A  California  Cook  Book  15 


JHlral},  Jfatul  nnb  (Burnt 

Gigot  of  Lamb,  Lilianne  (Raphael  Weill) 

PARE  nicely  a  leg  of  yearling  lamb.  Cut  off  the 
knuckle  bone  at  the  handle.  Remove  about  two 
inches  of  meat  lightly  with  the  blade  of  a  cleaver. 
Lard  the  leg  with  pieces  of  goose  liver  (foies  gras  au 
naturel),  cut  half  an  inch  square  and  full  length  of  liver, 
in  this  way  penetrating  the  meat  lengthwise,  using  a 
large  size  larding  needle.  This  must  be  done  carefully, 
larding  as  closely  as  possible,  to  have  the  leg  of  lamb 
thoroughly  stuffed  with  the  goose  liver.  Place  the  leg  of 
lamb  in  a  braising  pan,  seasoned  with  salt.  Baste  with 
one-half  pound  clarified  butter.  Put  it  in  a  hot  oven 
for  about  30  minutes,  basting  five  or  six  times  and  turn- 
ing the  leg  to  prevent  coloring  too  much  on  one  side. 
Garnish  with  four  French  carrots,  two  large  onions,  four 
leeks,  four  stalks  of  celery  (all  sliced),  a  handful  of 
parsley,  six  bay  leaves,  sprig  of  thyme,  two  cloves  of 
garlic,  a  pinch  of  whole  mace,  a  teaspoonful  of  allspice 
and  a  small  handful  of  whole  white  pepper.  Add  one 
quart  bottle  of  good  sherry  and  one  quart  good  chicken 
and  beef  stock,  two  calves'  feet,  boned  and  blanched. 
(To  blanch  calves'  feet,  put  same  in  a  saucepan,  well 
covered  with  cold  water,  and  a  small  handful  of  salt. 
Bring  it  to  a  boil  for  about  three  minutes  and  refresh  in 
cold  water.)  Cover  the  braising  pan,  bringing  it  to  a 
boil,  and  cook  slowly,  simmering  in  a  warm  oven  for 
about  two  hours  until  the  meat  is  very  tender.  Remove 
from  fire  and  take  cover  off.  Put  aside  to  allow  cooling 
for  an  hour.  Put  the  leg  of  lamb  in  a  deep  china  dish, 
strain  the  gravy  through  a  fine  strainer  and  a  second 
time  through  a  cheese  cloth.  Remove  the  fat  thoroughly 
and  cover  the  leg  over  with  the  gravy.  Let  it  cool  and 
place  in  the  ice  box,  to  be  served  the  next  day.  If  it 
is  intended  for  a  formal  dinner,  the  gravy  should  be 
clarified,  proceeding  as  if  for  aspic  jelly,  the  leg  nicely 
trimmed,  then  covered  with  five  or  six  coatings  of  jelly 
in  a  nearly  cold  setting.  Make  a  design  of  truffles  repre- 
senting a  lady's  picture  and  the  name  "Lilianne"  within 
the  truffles,  cover  again  with  jelly  and  serve  on  flat 
dishes  and  garnish  with  cut  up  jelly.  A  frill  on  the 
handle  must  be  carved  thin  and  across  the  meat. 

The  braising  pan  must  not  be  too  large,  so  as  to  allow 
the  leg  of  lamb  to  be  nearly  covered  by  the  stock.  At- 
tention must  be  taken  to  turn  the  leg  over  three  or  four 
times  during  the  braising. 

Jowl  a  la  Mode,  Cold  (Colonel  Kowalsky) 

This  takes  four  jowls  (calves'  head)  with  vegetables, 
plenty  of  carrots  and  onions  and  a  little  garlic.  Cook 
over  a  slow  fire,  add  tripe,  place  in  jar  in  cool  place. 
Serve  cold. 

Veal  Cutlets,  Italian  Style  (Lily  K.  Slinkey,  "Durini") 

Dry  the  cutlets,  then  dip  in  cream  (canned  preferred), 
seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  savory,  thyme  and  a  dash  of 
garlic.  Then  dip  in  flour  and  fry  in  olive  oil  with  one- 
third  butter,  until  brown.  Garnish  with  lime  and  red 
pepper. 


16  A  California  Cook  Book 


Veal  Cutlet  en  Casserole  (S.  W.) 

First  brown  the  veal  well  in  piping  hot  pan  with  a 
little  olive  oil.  When  the  veal  is  rather  well  done,  but 
not  too  brown,  place  it  in  casserole.  Make  a  gravy  in 
frying  pan,  with  browned  flour,  butter  and  water,  or  a 
cream  gravy.  Pour  gravy  on  meat,  with  a  little  onion, 
chopped  parsley  and  a  bay  leaf,  and  plenty  of  seasoning 
(pepper,  salt,  paprika  if  wished,  and  a  rub  of  garlic). 
Place  in  oven  until  ready  to  serve.  In  about  one-half 
hour  this  dish  is  usually  done.  The  veal  should  be  thor- 
oughly cooked,  but  with  the  consistency  and  flavor  of  a 
broiler. 


Beef  a  la  Mode  (Mrs.  F.  X.  Bentz) 

Four  pounds  of  bottom  round.  Make  incision  in  the 
beef  with  a  sharp  knife,  fill  these  incisions  with  long  thin 
pieces  of  salt  pork  or  bacon.  Let  beef  stand  overnight 
in  one  pint  of  white  wine  or  claret;  season  wine  with 
cloves  or  allspice.  Soak  also  with  beef  four  whole  onions 
pierced  with  cloves,  sliced  carrots  and  turnips  (cut  tur- 
nips in  halves).  Next  day  add  more  wine,  or  water,  if 
required.  Boil  slowly  over  a  very  low  flame ;  20  minutes 
before  beef  is  ready  to  serve,  add  whole  potatoes.  Re- 
move vegetables  as  soon  as  they  are  cooked.  Return 
them  in  time  to  warm  up. 

Leg  of  Mutton,  English  Style,  Fireless  Cooker  Fashion 
(Mrs.  F.  C.  Luck,  Colfax) 

Peel  some  potatoes  and  place  in  lower  steamer  pan. 
Parboil  some  onions  and  place  in  second  steamer  pan. 
Salt  and  pepper  the  meat  and  place  on  top  of  vegetable 
pans.  Use  no  water.  Cover  the  steamer  or  pot  in  which 
meat  and  vegetables  are  set,  and  cook  in  steady  oven  for 
about  three  hours.  Remove  meat  and  vegetables,  and 
with  the  dripping  at  bottom  of  pan  make  a  rich  brown 
gravy.  The  grease  will  have  been  absorbed  by  the  vege- 
tables, without  spoiling  their  flavor,  and  the  meat  will  be 
found  to  have  absorbed  the  onion  flavor  without  over- 
doing it. 

This  is  a  very  wholesome  way  to  cook  venison  and 
any  kind  of  meat  that  is  usually  pot-roasted  or  boiled  in 
the  ordinary  way.  Pork  is  nice  in  this  way,  with  dress- 
ing placed  with  onions.  A  tough  chicken  is  greatly  im- 
proved cooked  in  this  manner. 

Lamb  Stew  with  Dumplings  (Mrs.  L.  F.  Stevens) 

Cut  some  salt  pork  into  dice  and  place  in  a  stew  pot 
with  an  onion,  some  chopped  parsley  and  a  garlic  clove. 
When  thoroughly  browned  and  the  fat  melted,  put  in 
the  meat  and  let  it  brown.  When  the  lamb  is  browned 
add  a  little  water,  as  for  a  pot  roast,  and  let  it  simmer, 
adding  water  from  time  to  time  until  the  meat  is  tender. 
A  green  pepper  can  be  added  if  liked.  After  the  meat  is 
thoroughly  done,  add  water  for  the  gravy,  plenty  of 
seasoning  (pepper  and  salt),  and  when  ready  for  it, 
thicken  with  flour  dissolved  in  cold  water.  If  it  is  de- 
sired to  have  the  potatoes  served  in  the  stew,  add  these 
about  one-half  hour  before  serving  time. 

The  dumplings  are  made  in  the  usual  way  with  flour 
and  water  with  a  little  baking  powder.     Drop  them  into 


A  California  Cook  Book  17 


the  boiling  gravy  with  a  teaspoon.     Cover  tightly  and 
let  steam  about  15  minutes. 

Not  only  lamb,  but  chicken,  beef,  kidneys  or  any  de- 
sired stew  meat  can  be  cooked  in  this  way.  But  when 
beef  is  used,  carrots  improve  the  flavor,  and  celery  for 
a  chicken  stew.  Serve  on  a  large  platter  with  the  dump- 
lings as  a  border. 

Plain  Steak  (Mrs.  Hortense  Steinhart  Russell) 

This  manner  of  cooking  a  beefsteak  is  not  difficult  and 
is  invariably  successful.  Heat  an  iron  frying  pan  redhot 
and  then  clap  the  steak  thereon.  After  it  is  seared 
brown  on  one  side,  quickly  turn  it  and  sear  the  other 
side.  Have  a  platter  ready,  heated  thoroughly,  and  on 
this  a  little  garlic,  and  a  few  drops  of  Worcestershire 
sauce.  As  soon  as  the  steak  is  done,  place  it  on  this 
prepared  platter  and  serve  at  once  with  chopped  parsley 
sprinkled  over  it. 

Salt  Rub  Steak  (Mrs.  Charles  Edgar  Longton) 

Rub  salt  well  into  both  sides  of  meat  and  place  in  pan 
with  a  little  water  in  a  very  hot  oven.  When  steak  is 
browned  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  the  other  side. 
Serve  very  hot.  This  steak  is  delicious,  the  juice  just 
running  out  of  it  when  cut. 

Fried  steak  is  not  to  be  despised.  Cut  in  rather  small 
pieces,  flour  and  fry.  Serve  on  bread  or  toast  as  a  sand- 
wich.    Excellent  for  after-theatre  suppers. 

i 
Roast  Wild  Goose  (Durini) 

Wash  the  goose  thoroughly  in  salt  water,  dry  and 
then  season  inside  and  outside  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
rub  with  garlic,  butter  and  olive  oil  inside  and  outside. 
Make  a  dressing  of  three-fourths  loaf  of  bread  previously 
soaked  in  water,  allowing  it  to  become  dry ;  one-third 
mashed  green  apples,  two  raw  eggs,  two  onions,  two 
tablespoons  Parmesan  cheese,  salt,  pepper,  pinch  of 
ginger,  savory,  thyme  and  cayenne.  Put  a  little  olive 
oil  in  a  hot  roasting  pan  and  roast  until  done.  Baste 
with  oil.  Goose  cooked  in  this  way  is  simply  perfect, 
the  olive  oil  taking  away  all  the  "wild"  flavor. 

Squabs,  Italian  Style  (Durini) 

This  takes  three  squabs.  Split  the  squabs  and  quarter 
them,  after  which  wash  and  dry.  Fry  in  two-thirds  olive 
oil  and  one-third  butter,  with  a  mashed  clove  of  garlic. 
When  brown  add  a  head  of  thin  celery  cut  in  finger 
lengths  and  put  in  enough  olive  oil  to  simmer  and  remain 
on  back  of  stove,  allowing  the  celery  to  become  tender. 
Add  salt  and  pepper  and  pinch  of  thyme,  sage,  nutmeg 
and  savory.    Serve  on  toast. 

Chicken  Saltato  con  fungi  (Durini) 

Fry  a  young  chicken  in  two-thirds  olive  oil  and  one- 
third  butter,  with  a  dash  of  garlic.  Put  in  a  stewpot 
with  a  little  butter  and  oil,  heat  and  drop  in  chicken, 
when  fried  adding  the  gravy  to  the  pan.  Then  add  a  can 


18  A  California  Cook  Book 


of  ripe  olives,  first  draining  off  the  water  and  washing 
the  olives  in  fresh  water  before  placing  in  pot.  Then  add 
a  can  of  French  imported  mushrooms,  liquor  and  all. 
(Dried  mushrooms  can  be  used,  if  first  soaked,  or  fresh 
mushrooms  added  at  last  moment,  first  cooking).  Put 
in  a  little  thyme,  sage,  savory,  black  and  red  pepper,  salt 
and  nutmeg,  and  small  can  of  tomatoes,  one  fresh 
tomato  and  one-half  glass  red  wine.  When  tender  serve 
on  toast. 

Chicken  Fricassee  with  Noodles  (Mrs.  Joseph  Steinhart) 

Select  a  large,  fat  hen.  After  thoroughly  cleaning  and 
singeing,  cut  off  wings  and  neck.  Then  separate  the 
breast.  If  large,  cut  in  two.  Cut  the  back  in  two  pieces, 
lengthwise.  Soak  in  water  a  short  time ;  drain  and  thor- 
oughly dry.  When  ready  to  cook  take  off  all  the  fat 
you  have  removed  from  the  chicken,  together  with  two 
or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  the  best  olive  oil  and  lay  in 
bottom  of  the  kettle — Dutch  oven — and  when  hot  brown 
each  piece  of  chicken  quickly.  Remove  as  soon  as 
brown ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  pinch  of  ginger,  paprika 
and  a  little  dry  mustard,  two  whole  cloves,  two  allspice, 
a  little  kitchen  bouquet.  Replace  again  in  kettle,  cover 
tightly  and  cook  very  slowly.  Now  add  chopped  parsley 
and  a  small  quantity  of  French  carrots  minced  as  fine  as 
possible,  three  or  four  finely  minced  lettuce  leaves,  one 
onion  and  one-half  clove  garlic.  These  are  added  after 
the  chicken  has  been  seasoned  and  placed  in  the  kettle 
to  simmer.  It  takes  2^4  to  3  hours  for  the  chicken  to 
cook;  must  cook  slowly  and  turn  occasionally.  When 
tender  skim  off  all  fat  and  add  about  one  cupful  of  boil- 
ing water.  Let  simmer  while  preparing  gravy,  which  is 
made  by  taking  one  tablespoon  of  the  dripping  and  one 
of  olive  oil.  Place  in  skillet,  add  one  heaping  tablespoon 
of  flour,  and  brown.  Add  gravy  from  chicken  gradually 
and  when  it  thickens  add  pint  of  milk,  and  same  quantity 
of  table  cream.  Now  pour  over  the  chicken  and  let 
simmer  very  slowly  for  about  15  minutes. 

Noodles — Boil  some  noodles  in  salted  water;  drain,  let 
cold  water  run  through  them.  Lay  on  bottom  of  serving 
platter.  Sprinkle  with  quantities  of  Parmesan  cheese. 
Put  chicken  on  top  of  noodles,  pour  gravy  over  all ;  add 
a  little  more  cheese  and  a  few  fresh  cooked  mushrooms 
if  desired,  or  the  canned,  button  kind.  Put  in  a  mod- 
erately warm  oven  for  a  few  moments  or  until  cheese  is 
melted,  and  serve.     It  should  have  plenty  of  gravy. 

Chicken  Greek  (Mrs.  Nelson  Page,  Oakland) 

Fricassee  as  usual.  When  done  remove  the  chicken 
and  add  to  the  pot  liquor  one  tomato  and  one  cup  of 
cooked  macaroni.  Beat  three  or  more  eggs  and  add  the 
juice  of  one  and  one-half  lemons.  Then  slowly  beat  in 
the  pot-mixture  and  pour  over  the  chicken. 

Panned  Chicken  (Dr.  Clara  M.  Freeman) 

Prepare  the  chicken  as  for  fricassee.  Put  a  little  olive 
oil  in  the  roast  pan  and  let  it  heat.  Place  the  chicken  in 
the  pan,  flouring  each  piece,  and  placing  on  each  plenty 
of  butter.  When  the  chicken  is  thoroughly  browned,  put 
a  little  hot  water  in  pan,  the  nucleus  for  the  gravy.  Add 
a   little   more   water  from   time  to  time   and   baste   the 


A  California  Cook  Book  19 


chicken  with  it.  Cook  one  hour.  This  is  a  delicious  way 
to  cook  chicken  and  the  toughest  fowl  becomes  tender 
through  this  easy  treatment.  Serve  with  mashed  pota- 
toes and  rice,  either  curried  or  plain. 

Chicken  Croquettes  (Mrs.  Steinhart) 

Boil  a  chicken  until  tender.  When  cold  remove  all  the 
skin,  and  dice.  To  this  add  a  can  of  diced  mushrooms  or 
small  sprig  of  parsley  minced  very  fine,  a  heaping  table- 
spoon of  melted  butter,  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice, 
salt,  paprika,  pepper,  one  pint  of  chicken  broth  and  a 
tablespoon  of  flour.  Let  all  simmer  for  one-half  hour. 
Just  before  taking  from  stove  add  one-half  pint  cream 
to  which  has  been  added  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  When 
this  is  cool  form  into  croquettes.  Dip  in  melted  butter, 
then  in  beaten  eggs,  then  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  (zwei- 
back  crumbs  are  very  nice)  and  fry  in  deep  fat  or  lard. 
Serve  with  cream  or  any  preferred  sauce.  Cream  sauce 
is  nice,  to  which  a  tablespoon  of  sherry  or  madeira  has 
been  added  just  before  serving. 

Chicken  Croquettes  (Mrs.  Mayo) 

Two  cups  chopped  chicken,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  Yi 
teaspoon  onion  juice,  1  cup  thick  white  sauce,  1  teaspoon 
minced  parsley,  1  teaspoon  minced  celery  and  cayenne, 
salt  and  white  pepper.  Add  seasoning  to  chicken,  then 
mix  in  sauce.  Dip  into  crumbs,  then  into  egg.  Fry  in 
deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 

Chicken  de  Belgium  (Colonel  Kowalsky) 

Take  a  fat  hen,  a  calf's  foot  and  a  small  piece  of  calf's 
liver,  well  rubbed  with  garlic,  and  place  in  a  pot  half 
filled  with  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  pepper  and  a 
piece  of  celery.  Let  it  simmer,  adding  water  from  time 
to  time  until  it  becomes  very  tender.  Pour  off  stock, 
skim  fat,  retaining  some  of  the  fat  and  stock  to  make  the 
sauce.  Add  to  sauce  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  half 
a  pint  of  cream.  Season  with  chopped  green  pepper  and 
California  oysters.  Cut  chicken  and  slip  off  bone.  Thicken 
sauce  with  a  little  flour  and  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Serve 
very  hot. 

Spanish   Chicken   Dinner  for   Six    (Henry   Clay  Smith, 
San  Diego) 

Take  a  5-pound  chicken  and  cut  up  into  small  pieces. 
Separate  the  wings,  neck  and  giblets  and  cook  these 
separately.  When  the  latter  are  done  remove  all  meat 
from  the  bones  and  chop  fine.  Serve  on  toast  with 
grated  cheese.  Put  in  oven  a  few  minutes  until  cheese 
melts. 

Chicken — Mix  one  can  green  peas  with  two  sweet 
green  peppers,  sliced.  Take  baking  dish  and  line  with 
layer  of  chicken  and  layer  of  peas  and  peppers,  alter- 
nately, with  seasoning. 

Stuffed  Peppers — One  pound  veal  and  j4_Pound  salt 
pork,  chopped  fine.  Take  six  small  sweet  peppers  and 
remove  seeds.  Stuff  with  above  dressing.  Take  one 
can  tomato  soup,  one  pepper  chopped  fine,  one  chili 
pepper  without  the  seeds,  one  onion  chopped  fine,  small 
clove  garlic,  broth  from  the  boiled  wings  and  neck  to 
be  added.      Use  the  Spanish  for  the  stuffed  peppers. 


20  A  California  Cook  Book 


Stye  lEwmrourai  ijamburger 

HAMBURG  STEAK  can  be  cooked  in  many  ways. 
En  casserole  it  is  tasty.  Roll  it  in  bread  crumbs 
and  use  plenty  of  seasoning,  either  pepper  and 
salt  alone,  or  spices  if  desired.  Put  a  lump  of  butter,  a 
clove  of  garlic  and  an  onion  in  the  casserole  with  the 
meat,  and  a  very  little  water.  If  no  cracker  or  bread 
crumbs  are  used,  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  use  water, 
as  the  meat  will  be  juicy.  The  crumbs  absorb  the  juice. 
i  . 
Method  of  Mrs.  Albert  Morath,  Stockton 

When  the  steak  is  preferred  in  balls,  crush  the  soft 
part  of  bread  into  the  meat  before  rolling — not  grating, 
but  in  soft  pieces.  Chop  an  onion  and  add,  with  garlic  if 
liked ;  plenty  of  seasoning,  mustard  with  pepper  and  salt 
being  an  improvement.  An  egg  can  be  beaten  in  if 
liked,  but  the  meat  has  a  better  flavor  if  the  egg  is 
omitted.  Fry  in  boiling  bacon  dripping,  or  butter  if 
preferred.  Do  not  cook  too  long.  If  the  meat  is  liked 
better  in  flat  cakes,  omit  the  bread. 

Mrs.  Grace  Smith's  Way 

A  quick  and  good  way  to  cook  Hamburg  steak  is  to 
form  it  into  a  loaf,  season  and  cover  with  sliced  toma- 
toes. Sprinkle  paprika  on  the  tomatoes.  When  the  loaf 
is  partly  baked,  flour  it,  and  when  the  flour  is  well 
browned  pour  over  it  a  little  water  so  that  there  will  be 
a  gravy. 

Meat  Loaf  (Mrs.  Roach) 

For  a  meat  loaf  roasted  for  a  piece  de  resistance,  mix 
the  meat  with  plenty  of  onion,  a  dash  of  garlic,  cinna- 
mon, pepper  and  salt.  Have  the  meat  ground  part  pork 
and  part  beef,  as  it  is  much  better  this  way.  Beat  an 
egg  into  it,  or  omit  if  liked  better  without  the  egg. 
When  in  roasting  pan  place  potatoes,  sweet  and  white, 
about  it  and  serve  the  browned  potatoes  as  the  garnish, 
with  a  little  parsley. 

A  nice  way  to  cook  "Hamburger"  so  that  when  cold  it 
will  cut  off  in  thin  slices,  like  head  cheese,  for  sand- 
wiches, etc.,  is  to  mix  up  the  minced  meat  with  about 
one-half  cup  cracker  crumbs,  rolled  fine;  two  eggs,  un- 
beaten ;  one-half  cup  milk  or  water,  an  onion  minced 
fine ;  seasoning,  dash  of  pepper,  paprika,  kitchen  bouquet, 
Worcestershire  sauce,  cloves,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  mus- 
tard, plenty  of  salt.  Place  in  tin  or  aluminum  mold  and 
set  this  in  pan  half-filled  with  water.  Bake  about  an 
hour  in  good  oven.  When  done  it  will  turn  out  of 
mold  in  perfect  shape. 


Louis  XIII  of  France  was  the  creator  of  the  method  of 
preparing  cutlets  or  chops  broiled  not  only  on  the  grill,  but 
between  two  other  cutlets,  in  order  to  preserve  the  juices. 


A  California  Cook  Book  21 


SUre 


Jack  London's  Way 

«|~~\  ICE,  cooked  as  American  housewives  never  cook 
r^  it  and  can  never  learn  to  cook  it,  appeared  on 
Martin's  table  at  least  once  a  day."  Thus  Jack 
London  says  in  the  forceful  novel  that  is  almost  auto- 
biographical. And  this  is  the  way  Jack  London  cooks 
his  rice — I  have  the  recipe  by  favor  of  Mrs.  London, 
above  her  husband's  signature : 

Rice  Properly  Cooked — First,  the  rice  must  be  washed 
thoroughly,  which  will  obviate  all  stickiness  of  the 
kernels  when  boiled.  The  proportion  of  rice  should  be 
one,  to  two  of  cold  water.  The  Oriental  allows  this  to 
stand  several  hours  before  setting  on  the  stove.  When 
the  saucepan  is  finally  placed  on  the  stove,  fire  must  be 
hot  and  the  rice  kept  boiling  until  all  the  water  has  been 
absorbed  by  the  rice,  and  no  water  remains  on  the  sur- 
face. Then  remove  where  the  stove  is  not  so  hot,  and  let 
simmer  slightly.  The  cooking  of  a  pot  of  rice  should 
require  from  fifty  minutes  to  an  hour  for  a  moderate 
measure.  Just  before  serving,  stir  softly  and  carefully 
with  a  fork,  which  loosens  the  mass  into  a  light  and 
flaky  appearance.  The  kernels  should  be  light,  soft, 
separate. 

Miss  Sarah  Connell,  book  critic  of  "Town  Talk"  and 
an  authority  on  cooking  as  on  literature,  says  that  "The 
trouble  is  not  so  much  with  the  cook  as  with  the  rice 
itself.  There  are  about  49  varieties  and  no  two  cook 
the  same  way.  Some  come  out  best  by  parboiling  and 
then  draining  and  starting  again  in  cold  water.  To  get 
the  same  kind  of  rice  every  time  would  mean  one  reliable 
recipe.  As  it  is  Chinese,  Japanese,  Indian,  Georgia,  South 
Carolina,  and  now  California  and  a  few  dozen  more, 
make  rice  cooking  a  never  solved  problem." 


Rice  Mexican  (William  J.  Taffinder) 

Requires  rice  (whole),  sweet  bell  peppers,  tomatoes, 
onion,  chili  powder,  salt  and  pepper,  lard. 

In  a  steel  frying  pan  melt  enough  lard  to  fry  to  a  seal 
brown  color  one  teacupful  of  rice.  The  rice  must  be 
cleaned  with  a  napkin  and  not  washed.  Constant  stirring 
is  necessary  to  prevent  the  rice  from  burning.  Remove 
the  rice  and  set  to  drain.  Into  the  lard  put  one  or  two 
large  peppers  which  have  been  seeded  and  chopped  fine, 
and  the  juice  of  one  medium  sized  onion  (grated).  One 
pinch  of  salt,  pepper  to  taste.  Two  heaping  teaspoonfuls 
of  the  chili  powder,  which  has  been  mixed  with  three 
cupfuls  of  tomatoes  which  have  been  mashed  fine.  In  a 
granite  saucepan  have  a  cup  of  boiling  water.  Pour  the 
sauce  from  the  frying  pan  into  the  saucepan,  then  pour 
in  the  rice.  Boil  slowly  until  the  rice  is  cooked,  place  in 
oven  and  bake. 

If  this  dish  is  well  cooked,  each  grain  is  separate  and 
dry. 


22  A  California  Cook  Book 

Rice  Holland  Style  (Mrs.  Amos  Pylman,  Hood,  Sacra- 
mento County) 

Wash  the  rice  in  several  waters  until  the  last  water  is 
absolutely  clear,  and  pick  out  all  the  dark  grains.  Have 
ready  boiling  water,  and  cook  the  rice  in  this  until  all 
the  water  is  absorbed.  The  proportions  are  about  twice 
liquid  to  the  dry  rice.  When  the  rice  is  even  with  the 
water,  stir  in  about  a  quart  of  milk  (or  less  if  the  quan- 
tity of  rice  is  small).  Let  this  cook  up  in  the  rice,  on 
the  back  of  the  stove.  Rice  cooked  in  this  manner  is 
delicious,  every  grain  being  perfect. 


The  composer  Rossini  could  cook  cleverly,  and  his  most 
celebrated  dish  was  a  preparation  of  macaroni.  Caruso  knows 
how   to    cook   macaroni,   also. 


TUtgfitabhB 


VERY  few  people  cook  vegetables  properly,  and  few 
understand  that  the  preparation  is  really  a  major 
part  of  vegetable-cookery.  In  boiling  asparagus, 
for  instance,  do  not  let  it  boil  too  long.  So  many  cooks 
leave  the  vegetables  on  the  stove  until  all  their  delicate 
flavor  is  lost.  If  artichokes  boil  too  long  they  become 
soggy.  If  vegetables  are  freshly  gathered  they  do  not 
need  to  cook  so  long  as  when  they  are  old.  Do  not 
soak  all  vegetables  in  water — corn,  for  instance.  The 
water  may  be  freshening,  but  it  toughens  and  hardens. 
Artichokes  should  be  placed  in  water,  so  that  they  will 
be  thoroughly  cleansed.  Kale  and  spinach  must  be 
washed  in  several  waters  before  cooking.  Peas,  unless 
freshly  picked  from  the  vines,  are  improved  by  soaking. 
If  very  hard,  a  tiny  dash  of  soda  in  the  boiling  water 
will  soften  them.  If  they  are  not  sweet,  add  a  little 
sugar  to  the  water. 

Personally  I  prefer  fresh  vegetables  dressed  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt  only,  but  many  like  them 
creamed.  Carrots,  if  sliced  very  thin,  only  take  about 
20  minutes  to  cook  thoroughly ;  dressed  with  butter,  or 
with  canned  cream,  they  are  a  dish  not  to  be  despised 
because  cheap.  Corn,  if  young,  should  not  be  boiled 
more  than  6  minutes  at  the  most,  and  should  be  served 
at  once.  Allan  Miner  told  me  that  an  infallible  way  to 
cook  corn  was  to  place  it  in  cold  water  and  let  it  boil 
up ;  when  at  the  boil  it  is  ready  to  serve.  Steamed  corn 
takes  a  long  time  to  cook  and  is  not  invariably  tender. 
The  latest  idea  in  corn  cooking  is  to  have  the  water 
boiling  briskly,  then  drop  the  corn  in  and  turn  off  the 
flame  under  the  pot.  The  corn  is  said  to  be  "ready" 
after  a  few  minutes  in  the  water. 

Cauliflower  is  much  more  tasty  baked  in  the  casserole, 
with  butter  and  a  little  cream,  with  cheese  and  paprika, 
than  in  any  other  way. 

Potatoes  are  much  more  mealy  boiled  in  their  jackets 
than  when  peeled  before  boiling.  Mashed  potatoes 
beaten  up  with  a  fork  just  before  serving  are  lighter 
than  when  a  spoon  or  masher  is  used. 

Mrs.  Ella  Sterling  Mighels  tells  me  that  Peas  with 
Paprika,  Portuguese  style,  are  delicious.     Boil  the  peas 


A  California  Cook  Book  23 


in  the  usual  way,  then  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
plenty  of  melted  butter,  with  paprika  well  sprinkled 
on  top. 

The  old  way  of  cooking  beets  was  boiling  and 
then  slicing  and  covering  with  vinegar,  serving  as  a 
pickle.  But  beets  are  really  an  addition  to  the  table 
when  boiled  or  baked  until  tender  and  then  served 
either  whole,  well  buttered,  or  chopped  fine  and  either 
creamed  or  merely  dressed  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 
The  tops  are  usually  boiled  with  the  beets  and  served 
in  a  separate  dish,  chopped  fine,  the  guest  being  asked 
whether  he  prefers  the  beets  with  or  without  the  tops. 
Epicures  like  the  tops,  also  the  tender  leaves  of  the 
cauliflower,  the  latter  creamed. 

Squash,  either  the  summer  or  winter  variety,  is  deli- 
cious baked  in  the  shell,  with  butter  and  seasoning  of 
pepper,  salt  and  paprika.  If  preferred  it  can  be  par- 
boiled before  being  placed  in  oven.  Serve  melon-size 
winter  squash  one-half  to  each  guest.  Parmesan  cheese 
can  be  added,  if  liked.  If  summer  squash  is  preferred 
boiled  and  mashed,  be  careful  and  use  very  little  water 
while  cooking.  Just  enough  water  to  keep  from  scorch- 
ing is  necessary ;  the  cooking  should  be  rather  a  steam- 
ing process.  Egg  plant  served  in  the  shell  is  much  more 
palatable  than  when  fried.  Sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs 
and  bake  until  done ;  if  preferred,  parboil  first. 

The  late  Mrs.  L.  M.  Barnett  told  me  how  they  cook 
cabbage  in  Texas.  They  boil  it  with  a  red  pepper 
(Mexican)  and  a  ham  bone.  Cooked  this  way  the  cab- 
bage takes  on  a  more  refined  flavor. 

Asparagus  with  Parmesan  Cheese  (Durini) 

Place  the  asparagus  in  boiling  water  and,  when  boiled, 
add  salt.  Cook  until  tender,  drain  and  cool.  Then  cut 
asparagus  in  small  pieces,  using  all  but  the  tough  part 
of  the  stalks.  Put  in  bake  pan  or  casserole  one-half  cup 
olive  oil  and  one-third  butter  and  a  clove  of  garlic.  Cover 
with  Parmesan  cheese  and  bake. 

Asparagus  is  very  nice  creamed,  but  it  is  as  well  to 
use  the  short  or  broken  pieces  for  this  dish.  Cook  the 
heads  and  very  little  of  the  stalk  and  make  a  drawn 
butter  sauce,  serving  on  toast. — (Mrs.  Pylman). 

Artichokes,  Italian  Style  (Durini) 

Take  the  artichokes  and  strip  off  one-quarter  of  the 
outer  leaves,  and  then  cut  the  top  points  off,  after  which 
put  in  boiling  water ;  add  a  little  salt.  When  tender, 
drain  and  permit  them  to  cool.  Now  cut  the  artichokes 
in  half  and  fry  in  two-thirds  olive  oil  and  one-third 
butter  with  a  dash  of  garlic.     Serve  when  brown. 

Artichoke  Dressing  (Mrs.  Meade) 

French  dressing,  with  chopped  fine  onions,  dill  pickles, 
capers,  pimento  and  walnuts. 

Potato  Patties  (Miss  Connell) 

Take  as  many  potatoes  as  you  need — wash,  peel  and 
grate.  Leave  them  in  a  dish  or  bowl  under  cover  for  an 
hour  or  so.    Then  drain  off  the  "juice."    Likely  they  will 


24  A  California  Cook  Book 


have  turned  brown,  but  that  will  not  matter.  Press  out 
as  much  of  the  water  as  can  be  done  without  really 
bothering.  Beat  up  an  egg  and  add  to  the  potatoes,  with 
salt  and  pepper  for  seasoning.  For  a  small  quantity  a 
whole  egg  may  be  too  much,  for  the  mixture  must  be 
like  a  fairly  stiff  dough.  If  too  soft,  add  a  little  flour 
until  it  comes  just  right.  Make  it  into  patties,  roll  in 
crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Potato  Dumplings  (Mrs.  Magee) 

Four  cold  boiled  potatoes,  stale  bread  crumbs,  2  eggs, 
y2  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  pepper,  1  teaspoon  parsley, 
a  dash  of  nutmeg,  2  tablespoons  flour,  2  cups  fried 
bread  crumbs.  Grate  potatoes,  add  1  cup  crumbs  crisped 
in  butter  or  drippings;  add  eggs  and  seasoning;  form  in 
medium  size  balls  and  steam  or  boil  20  minutes.  Turn 
out  and  sprinkle  with  remaining  crumbs. 


Baked  potatoes  are  delicious  if  scooped  out  just  before 
serving  and  the  potato  mashed  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt  and  a  little  cream,  then  returned  to  the  skin  and 
placed  in  oven  to  heat.     Serve  piping  hot. 


Mrs.  Luck  says:  "Rub  potatoes  with  butter  or  olive 
oil  before  baking,  as  it  makes  the  skins  more  tender  and 
gives  them  an  artistic  brown,"  and  Mrs.  Mighels  has 
found  out:  "If  the  milk  for  mashed  potatoes  is  scalded 
first  the  potatoes  left  over  will  be  in  no  danger  of  turn- 
ing sour  and  can  be  made  into  dainty  potato  pats  for 
next  day's  luncheon." 

Smothered  Onions  (H.  C.  Smith) 

Place  the  onions,  medium  size  or  large  as  preferred, 
and  as  many  as  are  desired,  in  a  stew  pot.  Place  a  lump 
of  butter  on  each  onion  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Cover  the  pot  and  let  the  onions  bake  a  little  while  in 
the  melted  butter.  Have  a  little  water  in  the  pan  so  as 
to  keep  from  burning.  Let  the  onions  cook  slowly  but 
thoroughly,  and  when  done  add  a  little  cream  to  the 
water.  The  onions  are  just  as  delicious  without  the 
cream,  though  perhaps  not  quite  so  rich.  Paprika  can 
be  added  to  the  other  seasoning  if  wished. 


When  you  see  a  gash  in  a  potato,  don't  imagine  it  is  de- 
cayed. The  gash  merely  means  that  the  spade  slashed  the 
tuber,  when  Farmer  John  was  digging. 


A  California  Cook  Book  25 


&alait  Sr?BBtttg 


DIFFERENT  cooks  have  different  ways  of  making 
mayonnaise.  If  the  salt  is  put  in  with  the  first 
drops  of  olive  oil  there  is  less  danger  of  curdling, 
and  some  say  a  little  vinegar  is  a  sure  preventive  of 
curdling.  Mayonnaise  made  with  cottonseed  oil  never 
curdles,  and  if  the  vinegar  is  beaten  up  first,  and  the  oil 
added  to  the  egg  gradually,  the  result  is  always  good. 
The  cottonseed  oil  does  not  have  the  "snap"  of  olive  oil, 
but  a  great  many  prefer  it.  It  takes  more  pure  olive  oil 
(that  in  cans)  to  thicken  the  mayonnaise  than  it  does  of 
the  "salad  oil"  that  comes  in  bottles,  but  the  flavor  of 
the  thinner  oil  is  more  acceptable  to  the  connoisseur. 
An  easy  way  to  make  mayonnaise  is  to  beat  a  whole  egg 
in  a  bowl  with  salt  until  light  and  then  add  the  oil 
(olive  or  cottonseed)  drop  by  drop  until  it  is  fairly 
thick.  Beat  with  Dover  beater  and  then  add  more  oil 
and  some  salt.  With  an  egg  and  about  two  cups  of 
oil  one  can  make  enough  mayonnaise  in  this  way  to  last 
a  week  if  kept  in  a  chilly  place.  Add  about  a  teaspoonful 
of  vinegar  the  very  last  and  beat  well.  The  mayonnaise 
can  be  thinned  from  day  to  day,  when  used,  with  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar.  This  mayonnaise  really  tastes  just  as 
well  as  the  kind  made  in  the  slow,  old-fashioned  way. 

Salad  is  much  more  tasty  mixed  in  French  or  Italian 
style  than  in  a  more  formal  way.  Have  ready  the  lettuce 
(crisped),  onions  sliced  thin,  or  whatever  else  is  desired 
for  the  salad.  Put  the  vegetables  in  large  bowl,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  all  the  oil.  Mix  up 
with  the  hands,  and  when  ready  to  serve  add  the  vinegar 
to  taste.  Garlic  can  be  rubbed  in  the  bottom  of  the 
bowl,  or  the  clove  left  in  until  the  salad  is  served.  Mix- 
ing with  the  hands  works  in  the  "taste"  as  no  other  way 
could. 

Salads  are  of  infinite  variety  these  days — the  apple  and 
nut;  beet;  bean — lima,  liver  and  Boston,  with  a  few 
string  beans  and  peas ;  olive  and  tomato,  with  green 
pepper;  pimento  and  lettuce;  cauliflower;  artichoke  and 
asparagus;  cucumber  and  tomato — indeed,  what  com- 
bination cannot  be  used  for  a  salad? 


Dressing  "Louis"  (Mrs.  H.  S.  Whittard) 

One  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  1  teaspoon  salt  (small), 
x/2  teaspoon  sugar,  2-3  cup  olive  oil,  4  tablespoons  chili 
sauce  (Millar's  preferred),  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire 
sauce,  1  tablespoon  malt  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  horse- 
radish. Have  bowl  very  cold,  and  rub  well  with  garlic. 
Put  in  mustard,  salt  and  sugar.  Add  to  this  the  oil, 
gradually.  Beat  well.  Then  add  chili  sauce,  Worcester- 
shire sauce  and  horseradish,  putting  in  vinegar  last. 
(To  be  used  on  any  kind  of  salad.) 

Salad  Dressing  (Mrs.  Page) 

About  the  size  of  three  peas  of  mustard  stirred  in 
either  water  or  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon olive  oil,  pinch  of  salt,  1  egg  well  beaten,  1  cup 
vinegar.  Let  boil  up  without  stirring.  When  cooled 
should  be  the  consistency  of  good  cream. 


26  A  California  Cook  Book 


Salad  Dressing  (Dr.  J.  Wilson  Shiels) 

The  ingredients  are  the  yolk  of  one  hard  boiled  egg, 
1  tablespoon  of  Roquefort  cheese,  wet  English  mustard, 
pepper  (fresh  ground),  salt  and  sugar  to  taste,  3  table- 
spoons of  olive  oil,  Yi  tablespoon  of  Tarragon  vinegar. 
Mash  the  egg  yolk  and  the  cheese  together  and  add 
seasoning,  gradually  add  oil  and  vinegar.  Cut  up  fine 
the  white  of  the  egg  and  add  this  last.  (This  quantity 
is  for  four  people.) 

Lettuce  Holland  Style  (Mrs.  Pylman) 

Cut  a  slice  of  bacon — or  more  if  needed — into  dice 
and  fry  in  sauce-pan.  Have  lettuce  ready  in  dish,  and 
just  before  serving  pour  a  little  vinegar  into  the  bacon 
fat,  stirring  and  seasoning  with  pepper  (not  too  much). 
Then  pour  over  lettuce. 

Canadian  Salad  Dressing  (Mrs.  Pylman) 

Yolk  of  egg,  tablespoon  sugar,  teaspoon  flour,  */2  tea- 
spoon mustard,  Yi  cup  milk,  small  chunk  of  butter. 
Cook  to  boiling  point,  and  then  pour  in  y2  cup  of  vine- 
gar. Stir  constantly.  Pour  this  over  cabbage  cut  very 
fine,  while  the  cabbage  is  hot.  If  this  dressing  is  used 
for  lettuce  it  can  be  mixed  with  a  little  lemon  juice, 
enough  to  thin  it,  and  is  a  very  good  substitute  for 
mayonnaise. 


Water  cress  salad,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  paprika 
and  a  little  garlic,  with  vinegar,  is  very  palatable.  The 
garlic  adds  much  to  the  tastiness  of  this  simple  salad. 


Lucullus,  the  Monte  Cristo  of  Naples,  according  to  Juvenal, 
devoured  at  one  meal  a  whole  estate.  He  thought  nothing  of 
spending  $20,000  on  one  banquet  and  nearly  every  day  he 
spread  one  of  these  feasts. 


Napoleon  boasted  of  his  cooking  talent,  but  when  asked 
to  make  an  omelet  he  awkwardly  flipped  it  on  the  floor.  Conde 
also  proclaimed  his  ability  as  a  cook,  but  overturned  his 
omelet  into  the  fire.  Prince  de  Tallyrand  did  not  boast,  but 
really  knew  how  to  cook. 


A  California  Cook  Book  27 


(§mtUtB  anin  Arrnmpamm^nt 

IT  was  Will  Clemens'  cook  who  discovered  how  to 
make    the    most   delicious    omelet    imaginable,    using 

water  instead  of  milk,  or  with  the  eggs  by  them- 
selves. One  evening  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Clemens  were  enter- 
taining a  few  friends  in  their  New  York  flat,  and  the 
maid  was  called  upon  to  serve  omelets  all  around.  The 
first  of  her  creations  was  so  appetizing  that  she  was 
requested  to  repeat  the  dish.  In  a  short  time  out  she 
came  from  the  kitchen  with  an  omelet  which  was  so 
delicious  that  every  guest  exclaimed,  "How  do  you 
make  these?"  She  falteringly  confessed  that  as  there 
was  no  more  milk  in  the  house  and  the  omelet 
was  wanted  directly  she  had  ventured  to  use  water 
instead  of  milk  for  thinning. 

"Hereafter  all  our  omelets  shall  be  thinned  with 
water."  exclaimed  all  the  delighted  eaters,  among  whom 
was  Mrs.  Sterling  Mighels,  who  brought  the  creation 
to  San  Francisco. 

Orange  Omelet  (Mrs.  Meade) 

Three  eggs  beaten  separately,  3  tablespoons  orange 
juice.  1  tablespoon  sugar,  rind  of  1  orange.  When 
serving  burn  with   Kirsch  or  brandy. 

Cheese  Straws  (Mrs.  Meade) 

One  oz.  butter,  1  oz.  flour,  2  ounces  bread  crumbs,  2 
ounces  cheese  grated.  j4  salt-spoon  of  mixed  salt  and 
cayenne.  Mix  into  a  paste  or  roll  out  into  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thickness.  Cut  in  narrow  strips  and  lay  on 
sheet  of  paper  to  cook.  Baked  in  a  few  moments.  Two 
tablespoons   means   1   ounce. 


Also  delicious  accompaniment  to  salads  or  omelets 
are  soda  crackers  placed  in  the  oven,  with  slices  of 
Eastern  or  California  cheese  on  them,  sprinkled  with 
salt  and  paprika.  When  the  cheese  is  melted  they  are 
readv  to  serve. 


English  toast  is  nice  to  serve  with  an  omelet,  or  with 
anchovies  as  an  appetizer  for  a  formal  dinner.  Cut 
the  bread  in  medium-thin  slices,  and  brown  on  pan  in 
butter,  being  careful  not  to  let  them  cook  too  crisp. 
If  desired  a  little  salt  can  be  sprinkled  on  the  slices, 
and  paprika. 


French  toast  is  made  by  cutting  moderately  thick 
slices  of  bread,  dipping  them  in  egg  moistened  with  a 
little  milk,  and  frying  them  in  bacon  dripping  or  butter 
until  brown,  sprinkling  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  each 
slice  if  desired.  If  preferred  chopped  parsley,  pepper 
and  salt  may  be  the  seasoning,  and  some  people  like 
this  toast  served  with  currant  jelly  spread  on  it. 


Baked     macaroni     is     greatly     improved     by     adding 
an  onion. 


Those  who  object  to  onion  and  garlic  in  vegetable 
form  find  the  onion-garlic  flavoring  extract  not  against 
"heir  palates. 


28  A  California  Cook  Book 


ftob&mgH  attb  $1 ttft&tttg  BmxttB 

Plum  Pudding  (Mrs.  Thomas  Longton,  Sacramento) 

One  pint  stale  breadcrumbs,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  stoned 
raisins,  1  cup  mashed  currants,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  y2 
pound  suet,  y2  pound  citron,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,  y2  cup  molasses,  3  eggs.  Mix 
well  all  dry  ingredients,  beat  eggs  and  add  to  molasses ; 
dissolve  soda  in  tablespoon  hot  water  and  add  to  it 
molasses  and  eggs.  Mix  into  dry  ingredients  and  pack 
into  greased  mold.  Boil  4  hours.  Serve  with  hard 
and  brandy  sauce. 

Brandy  Sauce 

Four  tablespoons  butter  size  two  eggs,  1  cup  pow- 
dered sugar,  whites  2  eggs,  y2  cup  boiling  water,  y2  cup 
brandy.  Beat  butter  to  a  cream  and  add  gradually 
sugar.  Beat  until  white  and  light,  then  add  whites  one 
at  a  time,  beating  all  the  while.  When  ready  to  serve 
add  brandy  and  boiling  water.  Stand  bowl  in  basin 
of  boiling  water  over  fire,  and  stir  until  light  and 
creamy,  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

English  Plum  Pudding  (Mrs.  George  Albert  Bromley) 

One-half  pound  beef  suet,  y2  pound  seeded  raisins,  y2 
pound  Sultana  raisins,  y2  pound  currants,  %  pound 
mixed  candied  peel,  y2  pound  breadcrumbs,  1  cup  flour, 
y2  pound  chopped  almonds,  y2  pound  brown  sugar,  y2 
teaspoon  each  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  y  teaspoon  cloves, 
5  eggs,  y2  cup  milk,  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon  and  1 
orange. 

First — Chop  suet,  then  dry  and  pick  currants,  cut  large 
raisins  in  halves,  shred  and  peel,  blanch  and  chop  al- 
monds. Next,  mix  all  dry  ingredients  thoroughly. 
Third — Beat  up  eggs,  add  milk,  and  mix  them  in 
pudding.  Fourth — Let  it  stand  if  possible  for  a  day  or 
two  before  cooking,  then  pour  into  well-greased  mold. 
Cover  closely  and  steam. 

Nursery  Plum  Pudding  (Miss  Connell) 

Take  a  loaf  of  raisin  bread,  wrap  in  a  clean  cloth, 
and  place  in  colander  to  steam.  It  will  take  about  an 
hour,  but  can  be  steamed  over  something  else  that 
is  boiling.  Serve  with  sweet  sauce.  This  is  a  very 
good  and  cheap  pudding,  nutritious  and  palatable. 

Plum  Pudding  (Mrs.  John  Parke  Brownlee,  Berkeley) 

One  pound  suet,  1  pound  raisins,  1  pound  currants, 
1  pound  bread  crumbs,  y  pound  mixed  peel,  2  cups 
sugar,  4  tablespoons  flour,  1  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg 
and  cinnamon,   1   pint  brandy,  6  eggs,   1   teaspoon  salt. 

Wellsley  Pudding  (Mrs.  E.  R.  Bromley) 

Put  two  cupfuls  sugar  and  one-third  boiling  water 
in  a  granite  saucepan.  Place  on  range  and  stir  until 
sugar  has  dissolved.  Bring  to  boiling  point  and  let 
boil  without  stirring  until  mixture  will  spin  and  thread 
when  dropped  from  tip  of  spoon.     Pour  syrup  gradually 


A  California  Cook  Book  29 


while  beating  constantly  on  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten 
until  stiff  and  continue  beating  until  mixture  is  nearly 
stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape.  Return  to  saucepan 
and  place  in  large  pan  containing  a  little  boiling  water 
and  cook,  stirring  constantly  from  botton  to  sides  of 
pan  until  mixture  becomes  granular  around  sides. 
Remove  and  beat  until  mixture  will  hold  its  shape. 
Flavor  with   y2   teaspoon  vanilla. 

Fig  Pudding  (Mrs.  Augustus  Chasy  Doan,  New  York) 

Three  ounces  each  of  flour  and  bread  crumbs.    Shred 

2  ounces  of  suet  fine,  and  mix  with  flour  and  bread 
crumbs.  Two  ounces  apples  chopped  fine.  4  ounces 
figs  chopped  fine.l  tablespoon  sugar  and  sufficient  milk 
to  mix  firmly — not  too  wet.  Put  in  buttered  mold  and 
press  closely  together.     Tie  down  with  cloth  and  steam 

3  hours.     Leave  room  for  it  to  swell. 

Cherry  Puffs  (Mrs.  George  Alfred  Sellery,  Neligh,  Ne- 
braska) 

One  pint  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  y2  tea- 
spoon salt,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter. 
Stir  in  sweet  milk  until  thick  enough  batter  is  formed. 
Put  2  tablespoons  cherries  in  cup,  then  tablespoon 
batter  on  top.  Place  in  steamer  and  cook  20  minutes. 
Serve  with  sauce  or  cream. 

Apple  Pudding  (Mrs.  J.  Allan  Munro,  Berkeley) 

One  pint  flour,  1  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Sift  baking  powder  in 
flour,  melt  butter,  add  milk,  eggs  and  flour.  Bake  1 
hour  over  sliced  and  sweetened  apples,  (or  steam  if 
preferred). 

Indian  Pudding  (Mrs.  Page) 

Scald  the  corn  meal  in  boiling  milk,  and  stir  in  salt 
and  brown  sugar  or  molasses — some  molasses  to  give 
good  color — two  beaten  eggs,  a  good  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  seeded  raisins,  and  milk  to  make  a  fairly  stiff 
batter.  Stir  several  times  while  baking,  and  add  more 
milk  it  if  seems  to  bake  too  dry.  Bake  about  an  hour 
and  a  half.  Molasses  does  not  mean  refined  syrup  but 
New  Orleans  black-strap. 

Steamed  Pudding  (Mrs.  Franklin  Poore) 

One  small  cup  sour  milk,  \y2  cups  flour,  1  teacup 
sugar,  1  egg,  J/2  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y.  each  of  nutmeg 
and  cloves,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  2  tablespoons  butter  (or 
suet  size  of  small  egg),  citron  and  raisins  (or  not  if 
preferred).  Beat  all  together  at  once — the  butter,  sugar, 
egg  and  spices,  then  add  sour  milk  and  flour  and  soda, 
mixing  the  soda  with  a  little  warm  water,  and  add 
last  of  all  just  before  the  raisins  or  citron.  Chopped 
apples  or  sliced  may  be  used  instead  of  the  other  fruit — 
or  no  fruit  at  all.  If  sweet  milk  is  used,  in  place  of 
soda  use  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Steam  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  If  suet  is  used,  chop  fine,  and  use 
instead  of  the  butter. 


30  A  California  Cook  Book 


Steamed  Pudding  (Mrs.  Mighels) 

Take  about  a  quart  of  stale  graham  bread,  crusts  and 
all,  and  soak  in  water  until  soft;  then  dry.  Add  7 
chopped  apples,  Rhode  Island  pippins;  about  y2  cup 
suet,  shredded  or  run  through  the  meat  grinder; 
about  2  tablespoons  flour  and  y2  teaspoon  baking 
powder;  2  eggs  well  beaten,  salt  to  taste  and 
about  a  cup  of  sugar  (if  a  very  sweet  pudding  is  liked, 
add  more  sugar).  Flavor  with  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 
Beat  all  together,  and  soften  with  more  water  if  neces- 
sary. Place  in  covered  tins  and  steam  about  three 
hours.  This  pudding  may  be  served  with  hard  or  soft 
sauce,  and  can  be  kept  for  a  long  time,  ready  to  heat 
up  when  an  emergency  dessert  is  called  for.  It  is 
simple  and  very  palatable. 

St.  James  Pudding  (Mrs.  G.  A.  Bromley) 

One  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sweet  or  sour  milk,  ^  CUP 
suet,  1  egg,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  and  nuts  and  raisins  to  suit  taste. 
Flour  like   cake  batter.     Steam   one   and   a  half  hours. 

Sauce — 2  cups  sugar,  butter  size  egg,  then  add  2  eggs. 

Chocolate  Pudding  (Mrs.  Mayo) 

One  cup  grated  carrots,  1  cup  grated  Irish  potatoes, 
4  tablespoons  chocolate,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  chopped 
nuts,  y2  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  full  teaspoon  mixed 
spices,  1  cup  flour,  1  tablespoon  brandy,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  1  level  teaspoon  soda.  Grate  the  carrots  and 
potatoes  first,  and  then  mix  them  with  the  other  in- 
gredients. Steam  in  a  covered  tin  three  full  hours.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce.  The  pudding  looks  more  festive  if 
served  with  brandy  burning  on  the  platter;  then  take  up 
burning  mixture  and  "baste"  pudding  with  it. 

(As  good  as  anything  I  ever  tasted.  This  recipe  was 
given  me  by  an  old  negress  who  cooked  at  our  San 
Diego  boarding  house. — Dorothy  W.  Mayo.) 


Tapioca  is  very  nice  cooked  with  fruits,  and  canned 
peaches  or  apricots  blend  well  with  it  as  a  pudding. 
When  served  as  a  custard,  boiled,  shredded  pineapple 
is  delicious  beaten  up  with  the  custard. 

Sauce  for  Cottage  Pudding  (Mrs.  C.  E.  Longton) 

Butter  size  of  an  egg,  2  cups  granulated  sugar  beaten 
to  a  cream,  then  add  gradually  2  cups  of  strawberries 
well   mashed. 

Simple  Pudding  Sauce  (S.  W.) 

One-half  cup  sugar,  1  cup  water.  When  near  to  boiling 
point  add  2  teaspoons  cornstarch  moistened  in  water  or 
milk.  Boil  about  5  minutes.  Before  serving  add  flavor- 
ing— brandy,  vinegar,  vanilla  or  lemon  extract,  with 
a  little  nutmeg  grated. 


Remember  not  to  try  doing  too  many  things  at  once.  As 
Prentice  Mulford  said:  "You  can't  bake  a  johnnycake  and 
mend  the  chicken-coop  at  the  same  time."  The  folks  that 
expect  others  to  draw  a  circle  with  one  hand  and  a  straight  line 
with   the   other  never  try  it   themselves. 


A  California  Cook  Book  31 


iFanrg  Bcamta 


Marshmallow  Pudding  (Mrs.  Roach) 

One  cup  sugar,  whites  of  2  eggs.  Dissolve  1  package 
of  Knox's  gelatine  in  hot  water,  let  cool.  Add  to  sugar 
and  whites  of  eggs,  and  beat  all  together  until  it  is 
like  marshmallow.  Separate  into  three  different  parts. 
Add  chocolate  to  one  part,  dissolve  small  portion  of  red 
pellet  in  water,  add  to  other  part  leaving  one  part  white. 
Put  in  mold  and  let  stand.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  rose  or 
almond.  The  three  blended  together  make  a  delicious 
flavoring.  Add  pinch  of  salt  to  pudding.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Miss  Ray  Bromley  says :  "With  another  portion 
colored  with  green  and  flavored  with  pistachio  the 
marshmallow  is  made  even  more  attractive,  served  with 
the  whipped  cream  and  chopped  walnuts,  and  a  mara- 
schino cherry  on  top  of  each  helping." 

Mrs.  Mayo  adds :  "The  marshmallow  is  also  delicious 
with  crushed  fruits,  raspberry,  strawberry  or  banana, 
used  instead  of  the  other  flavoring.  Instead  of  whipped 
cream  pineapple  juice  poured  over  it  makes  a  change." 

Marshmallow  Cream  (Mrs.  Walter  A.  Scott) 

One-fourth  cup  cold  water,  \y2  tablespoon  gelatine, 
J4  cup  boiling  water.  Then,  if  not  dissolved  sufficiently, 
set  on  stove  a  few  seconds.  Six  broken  macaroons,  1 
cup  granulated  sugar,  1  dozen  marshmallows,  5  cents' 
worth  candied  cherries,  Yz  cup  grated  almonds,  3  table- 
spoons sherry  or  rum.  Mix  all  this  and  while  it  is 
cooling  whip  the  cream  (1  pint  cream). 

Bavarian  Cream  (Mrs.  G.  A.  Bromley) 

One-half  package  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  little  water, 
1  pint  milk,  1  pint  cream,  ^  CUP  sugar,  4  eggs,  pinch 
salt,  vanilla  and  almond  flavoring.  Let  milk  and  salt 
come  to  a  boil,  add  gelatine,  then  beat  in  beaten  yolks 
of  eggs,  a  little  at  a  time.  Put  on  stove  and  let  it  cus- 
tard. When  cold  beat  in  whites  and  cream  and  let 
stand  in  cool  place  until  served. 

Frozen  Pudding  (Mrs.  G.  A.  Bromley) 

One-half  pint  whipping  cream,  whites  of  2  eggs,  2 
bananas,  Yz  cup  sugar.  Cut  fruit  and  put  sugar  on  it 
and  let  stand  and  then  mash  with  fork.  Whip  cream, 
add  eggs  mixed  together,  then  fruit  and  sugar.  Put  in 
freezer  and  let  freeze  as  for  ice  cream.  (For  four 
people.) 

Pineapple  Parfait  (Mrs.  G.  A.  Bromley) 

One  quart  whipped  cream.  Put  in  cup  with  a  little 
water,  1  tablespoon  gelatine,  set  cup  in  dish  of  hot  water 
to  dissolve.  Mix  gelatine,  1  cup  sugar,  1  can  grated 
pineapple,  then  turn  all  into  whipped  cream.  Put  into 
glass  jar  or  tin  molds  to  freeze.  Chop  ice  and  use  1  cup 
rock  salt  to  2  cups  ice.  Pack  and  let  stand  about  two 
and  a  half  or  three  hours.     To  take  from  mold  dip  a 


32  A  California  Cook  Book 


towel  in  hot  water  and  hold  around  mold  for  an  in- 
stant and  the  parfait  will  slide  out  on  dish  to  be  served. 
Can  be  cut  off  in  slices. 

Orange  Cream  Pudding  (Rose  Mahony) 

Dissolve  2  heaping  teaspoons  powdered  gelatine  in  1 
cup  boiling  water,  add  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  strained 
orange  juice,  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Beat  well  together,  then 
add  2  cups  whipped  cream.  Pour  into  mold,  and  turn 
out  when  firm. 


The  popular  dessert  for  a  Christmas  dinner  in  Texas, 
said  Mrs.  Barnett,  recalling  memories  of  her  childhood, 
was  banana,  orange  and  pineapple  cut  up  and  mixed 
with  a  little  lemon  juice.     Served  with  fruit  cake. 


pea  wxit  OTltnga 


Pie  Crust  (Mrs.  E.  R.  Bromley) 

One  cup  lard,  level  teaspoon  salt,  beaten  to  a  cream. 
Add  3  cups  flour,  work  lightly  together  with  y2  cup 
water.  When  pie  is  made  before  cutting  holes  in  top 
crust  let  the  cold  water  run  over  it.  Bake  to  a  nice 
brown. 

Lemon  Pie  Filling  (Mrs.  F.  G.  Irving,  Colfax) 

This  makes  one  pie. 

One  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  eggs,  saving 
white  of  1  for  meringue ;  1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  moist- 
ened in  a  little  water,  1  lemon  grated  and  the  juice. 
Stir  together  and  then  pour  over  1  cup  boiling  water. 
Boil  until  thick.  Cool  a  little  and  put  on  meringue, 
browning  later  in  oven,  just  a  little.  Make  pie  crust 
first. 

Chocolate  Filling  (S.  W.) 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  scant  tablespoons  cornstarch,  1 
quart  milk,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  pinch  salt,  y2  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Cook  as  for  chocolate  pudding,  adding  vanilla 
after  the  mixture  is  done.  Do  not  let  it  boil  too  hard. 
About  four  minutes  is  sufficient.  If  it  seems  too  stiff, 
thin  a  little.  Have  ready  the  pie  shell  with  deep  crust 
and  fancy  border.  Pour  custard  in  shell  and  let  cool 
a  little.  Beat  up  the  2  whites  of  egg  with  a  little 
powdered  sugar  and  a  dash  of  salt  and  vanilla  ex- 
tract. Place  meringue  on  top  of  pie  and  brown  in 
oven.     This  makes  a  very  deep  pie,  or  two  small  ones. 

Squash  Pie  Filling  (Mrs.  R.  N.  Roach) 

Three  big  cups  of  cooked  squash,  5  eggs,  1  quart 
sweet  milk.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Add  cinnamon  and 
nutmeg  to  taste,  and  salt.  Mix  sugar,  spices,  salt  with 
the  squash,  add  eggs  and  milk,  and  strain  into  two  deep 
pie  pans  which  have  been  lined  with  a  good  pie  paste. 


A  squash  pie  is  delicious  served  with  whipped  cream 
on  top. 


A  California  Cook  Book  33 


(ttakra  unb  iFUltttga  for  date* 

The  oftener  you  sift  flour  the  lighter  will  be  your 
cakes. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  with  the  hands  in  cold 
weather,  as  it  will  produce  better  and  quicker  results. 

Never  beat  a  cake  batter  briskly  after  the  flour  has 
been  added,  as  it  will  toughen  the  grain.  Fold  the 
flour  in  gently. 

Chocolate  Cake  (Mrs.  Roach) 

Three  tablespoons  chocolate,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot 
water.  Cream  1  thin  slice  butter  and  1  cup  sugar  with 
chocolate,  add  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  milk,  sweet  or 
sour  if  preferred  (if  sour,  use  a  pinch  of  soda)  ;  2  cups 
flour — sift  4  times,  then  measure.  Add  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  pinch  salt,  vanilla  to  taste.  If  you  like, 
use  a  little  cinnamon.  Bake  in  loaf  or  layers.  Use 
white  or  chocolate  frosting. 
Frosting  for  Chocolate  Cake 

Two  teacups  powdered  sugar,  2  tablespoons  chocolate, 
hot  water  enough  to  moisten  so  it  will  spread  smooth — 
add  water  a  little  at  a  time. 

Easy  Fruit  Cake  (S.  W.) 

Two  cups  flour  sifted  4  times,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  2  eggs,  y2  cup  cold  black  coffee,  1  thin  slice 
butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  dark  molasses,  x/2  cup 
raisins,  cut  or  whole,  1/3  cup  dried  currants,  1  table- 
spoon citron  sliced  very  thin,  y2  cup  cut  walnuts,  about 
6  maraschino  cherries  cut  fine,  or  if  preferred  to  have 
them  whole,  use  about  12;  1  teaspoon  sherry,  brandy  or 
lemon  extract,  y2  teaspoon  powdered  chocolate,  r/2 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  %  teaspoon  each  of  grated 
cloves,  nutmeg,  allspice;  y2  teaspoon  salt.  Cream  sugar 
and  butter,  add  molasses,  fruit  and  coffee,  beating  all 
well ;  then  add  eggs  well  beaten ;  sift  all  dry  ingredi- 
ents together  and  join  to  mixture,  being  careful  to  have 
them  well  harmonized.  Bake  about  an  hour,  in  a  slow 
oven.  This  cake  is  nice  either  iced  or  plain.  It  will 
keep  fresh  a  long  time. 

The  same  cake  is  very  nice  if  made  without  the  fruit 
mentioned  above,  but  with  dried  figs,  cut  fine,  substi- 
tuted, and  with  light  molasses. 

Fruit  Cake  (Mrs.  Joseph  Nesbitt) 

Two  cups  butter,  2  cups  white  sugar,  2  large  cups 
flour,  6  cups  raisins,  2  cups  currants,  4  cups  mixed 
peel,  4  teaspoons  cinnamon,  1  nutmeg,  2  teaspoons 
vanilla,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  10  eggs,  1  glass 
brandy. 

Fruit  Cake  (Mrs.  E.  F.  Smith) 

One  pound  raisins,  1  pound  currants,  1 3^2  pound  citron, 
2  eggs,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  l/2  cup  butter, 
2/3  cup  water,  y2  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cream 
tartar,  2  teaspoons  nutmeg,  2  teaspoons  allspice,  1  tea- 
spoon cloves,  3  cups  flour.  Bake  two  and  a  half  or 
three   hours,   slowly. 


34  A  California  Cook  Book 


(This  recipe  was  given  me  by  Mrs.  Bryant,  wife  of  a 
professor  at  Stanford  University,  Palo  Alto. — M.  C.  S.) 

Apple  Sauce  Cake   (Mrs.    John    W.    Sandford,    White 
Sulphur  Springs,  St.  Helena) 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  raisins,  1 
teaspoon  mace,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  each 
of  nutmeg  and  cloves,  \y2  cups  flour,  1  cup  apple  sauce, 
1  thin  slice  butter,  1  level  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
water.  Bake  slowly  one  hour.  No  egg  is  required  for 
this  cake,  but  one  may  be  used  if  preferred. 


Buckeye  Cake  (Seba  Rixon,  San  Francisco) 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  powdered  sugar,  3  cups  flour, 
1  cup  sour  milk,  4  or  5  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  nutmeg, 
24  pounds  raisins  cut  with  knife  and  rolled  with  half 
the  flour.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs, 
then  milk  with  soda  dissolved  in  it.  Stir  in  y2  of 
flour,  then  stir  briskly.  Then  add  flour  and  raisins 
and  stir  again,  the  whites  of  eggs  last.  Bake  from  1 
to   \y2   hours. 

Scotch  Short  Cake  (Mrs.  S.  Secord,  Kincardine,  Ontario) 

Four  cups  flour,  y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup  lard,  1  cup 
brown  sugar,  1   egg. 

Spice  Cake  (Mrs.  Doan) 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter  beaten 
to  a  cream,  2  eggs,  y2  cup  milk  or  water,  1  teaspoon 
each  allspice,  cinnamon,  1  cup  flour,  1  large  teaspoon 
baking  powder. 

Gingerbread  Without  Eggs  (Mrs.  F.  B.  Jansen) 

Two  scant  cups  flour,  y2  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  dark 
molasses,  y2  cup  sour  milk,  pinch  soda,  2  even 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  ginger,  cloves,  cinnamon, 
nutmeg  to  taste;  vanilla  extract  if  desired.  Beat 
into  soft  batter  being  very  careful  not  to  have  it 
too  stiff.  Use  water  to  thin,  if  the  flour  seems 
too  heavy.  Shorten  with  about  a  tablespoon  of 
butter,  either  creamed  with  the  sugar  or  melted  and 
added  to  dry  ingredients.  Place  in  hot  greased  pan  and 
bake  about  one-half  hour  in  good  oven.  Raisins  and 
currants  can  be  added  if  desired. 

Sister  Clara's  Soft  Gingerbread  (Mrs.  Irving) 

Two  eggs,  y2  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  2/3  cup 
shortening,  pinch  of  ginger  if  desired,  cinnamon  and 
cloves  to  suit  taste,  heaping  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
in  a  little  water,  iy2  cups  flour;  add  1  cup  boiling 
water  just  before  putting  in  oven. 

Brown  Velvet  Cake  (Mrs.  G.  A.  Bromley) 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1  cup  sour 
milk  into  which  put  y2  teaspoon  baking  soda,  2  cups 
flour,  2  tablespoons  chocolate,  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon 
and  nutmeg,  %.  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and 
a  little  salt. 


A  California  Cook  Book  35 

Throw-Together  Cakes  (Mrs.  G.  A.  Bromley) 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  1/3  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  water, 
2  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  y2  cup 
currants,  juice  y2  lemon,  pinch  of  nutmeg. 

Potato  Cake  (Marie  Lucile  Pyle) 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  each  lard  and  butter,  y2  cup 
milk,  3  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  mashed  potatoes, 
1  cup  grated  chocolate,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  2  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  each  of  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  cloves. 
Fold  whites  of  eggs  in  last. 

Nut  Cake  (Mrs.  Brownlee) 

One  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup  sweet 
milk,  \l/2  cups  sifted  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
nuts  to  desire.     Bake  in  breadpan. 

Prune  Layer  Cake  (Mrs.  Roach) 

One  cup  sugar,  1  thin  slice  butter,  3  yolks  and  \y2 
whites  of  eggs,  1  cup  prunes,  or  24  prunes,  l/2  cup  milk, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  cloves,  2  cups  flour, 

1  small  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Any 
preferred  flavoring.  Bake  in  layers.  Filling — Boiled 
icing,  and  10  marshmallows  added. 

Layer  Cake  (Mrs.  Brownlee) 

Two  cups  flour  sifted  once,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter, 

2  eggs,  y2  cup  milk,  pinch  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring.  Cream  butter  and  sugar, 
then  add  yolks  of  eggs,  then  milk,  then  dry  ingredients 
and  the  egg  whites  last  of  all,  beaten  stiff.  Any  kind 
of  filling  can  be  used  with  this  recipe. 

Chocolate  Jam  Cake  (Mrs.  Gus  Moose,  San  Francisco) 

One  cup  sugar,  4  tablespoons  butter.  Cream  well  into 
above  yolks  of  3  eggs,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  y2  tea- 
spoon each  of  cloves,  cinanmon  and  allspice,  1  teaspoon 
almond  extract,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  4  tablespoons  milk, 

3  teaspoons  water,  4  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  1  cup 
flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  and  last  the  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  2  jelly-cake  tins,  medium  oven. 
When  baked  put  any  kind  of  jam  between  layers  and 
ice  with  chocolate  icing. 

Lemon  Cream  Cake  (Mrs.  Moose) 

Three  eggs,  2/3  cups  sugar.  Beat  well  for  about  10 
or  15  minutes.  Two-thirds  cup  flour  and  2/3  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.  Bake  in  moderately  quick  oven. 
After  above  is  baked  turn  out  and  cool.  Yolks  of  4 
eggs,  34  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  heaping  teaspoon  corn- 
starch, juice  of  2  lemons,  y2  pint  of  pastry  cream,  and 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  added  to  above.  Boil  in  double 
boiler,  and  when  thick  let  cool  and  put  on  top. of  cake. 
Then  beat  another  y2  pint  of  pastry  cream  for  the  top 
of  above. 


36  A  California  Cook  Book 


Sherry  Cake  (Mrs.  H.  H.  Powell,  San  Mateo) 

One  cup  sugar  and  Yz  cup  butter,  creamed;  2  eggs,  or 
3  yolks  and  1  white;  Yz  cup  sherry;  \Yz  cups  flour;  1 
cup  chopped  nuts  and  raisins;  Yz  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  water,  to  be  added  last.  Bake  in  loaf  or 
layers,  white  icing. 

White  Cake  (Mrs.  Moose) 

One  cup  sugar,  1/3  cup  butter.  Cream  well.  One- 
half  cup  milk,  \]/2  cups  flour,  1  scant  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  whites  of  3  eggs  well  beaten.  After  creaming 
butter  and  sugar  add  Y>  the  flour,  then  the  eggs,  and 
lastly  the  remainder  of  the  flour.  Flavor  to  taste.  Bake 
in  slow  oven. 

Devil  Cake  (Mrs.  G.  A.  Bromley) 

Cream  Yz  cup  butter,  beat  gradually  into  it  Yz  CUP 
white  sugar  and  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs.  Melt  4 
ounces  of  unsweetened  chocolate,  over  hot  water,  stir 
until  smooth,  then  add  to  other  ingredients.  Add  al- 
ternately 1^2  cup  milk,  %  cup  flour,  sifted,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon  and  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Flavor 
with  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  in  whites  beaten  dry. 
Bake  in  sheets  2  layers  put  together  with  boiled  frost- 
ing. 

Devil  Cake  (Mrs.  Roach) 

Three-quarters  cup  ground  chocolate,  Yz  cup  sweet 
milk,  2/3  cup  brown  sugar,  yolk  of  1  egg.  Beat  all  to- 
gether, soft  boil  until  like  a  custard.  Set  to  cool.  This 
is  the  cream. 

Take  1  cup  brown  sugar,  y2  cup  sweet  milk,  2  eggs, 
2  cups  sifted  flour.  After  the  cake  is  mixed,  then  stir 
in  the  above  cream.  Then  add  1  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  little  warm  water.  Spread  chocolate  icing 
or  white  boiled  icing  on  top  and  between  layers.  This 
is  good. 

Nut  Torte  (Mrs.  G.  A.  Bromley) 

Yolks  5  eggs,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  5  soda  crackers 
ground,  Yz  cup  chopped  walnuts,  vanilla  flavoring. 
Whites  of  5  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
in  spring  form  tin  20  minutes.  Cover  or  spread  top  of 
cake  with  raspberry  jam,  then  macaroons,  then  whipped 
cream,  then  chopped  nuts. 

Marble  Cake  (Mrs.  Mayo) 

Whites  of  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  Yz  cup  butter,  2  cups 
flour  with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Cream  butter 
and  sugar;  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  mix 
in  the  flour  with  2/3  of  a  teacup  sweet  milk;  flavor 
with  lemon.  Then  remove  Y  CUP  °f  dough  and  add  to 
it  3  teaspoons  grated  chocolate.  Stir  this  into  the  cake 
after  it  has  been  put  into  the  bakepan. 

Breakfast  Cake  (Mrs.  Page) 

Two  cups  sifted  flour,  Y  cuP  sugar,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  salt  to  taste.  Milk  to  make  a  smooth 
batter.     Bake  about  twenty  minutes. 


A  California  Cook  Book  37 


German  Apple  Cake  (S.  W) 

One  tgg,  1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  cups  flour  sifted  three  or 
four  times,  salt  to  taste,  y2  cup  sugar,  brown  or  gran- 
ulated, 1  teaspoon  powdered  cinnamon,  pinch  powdered 
nutmeg.  Beat  egg,  add  milk  and  butter,  flour  sifted 
with  baking  powder  and  salt ;  stir  and  pour  in  shallow 
pan.  Have  ready  apples  cut  in  16ths,  and  when  batter 
is  ready  in  pan  press  the  cut  apples  down  in  it.  Over 
all  sprinkle  the  sugar  sifted  with  the  spices.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  about  a  half  hour.  This  coffee  c?ke,  or 
apple  cake,  is  very  nice  with  other  fruits,  oranges, 
peaches,  cherries,  pears,  pineapple,  cut  the  same  way 
as  the  apples.  If  cooked  fruit  is  used  see  that  all  the 
juice  is  drained  off  first.  Nuts  and  raisins  and  citron 
cut  very  fine  with  a  sharp  knife  can  be  used,  the  raisins 
and  citron  worked  into  the  batter  and  the  nuts  sprinkled 
with  the  spiced  sugar.  The  batter  by  itself  is  delicious 
coffee  cake,  served  at  once  and  hot. 

Quick  Coffee  Cake  (Rose  Mahony) 

Three  tablespoons  butter,  4  or  6  tablespoons  sugar,  2 
eggs,  3/4  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  y2  teaspoon  salt.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar,  add  eggs  beaten  light,  then  milk,  and  flour  last 
of  all.  Bake  in  2  layers.  Sprinkle  3/4  cup  breadcrumbs, 
2  tablespoons  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  mixed 
together,  on  top. 

Potato  Flour  Cake   (Mrs.  Martin) 

Whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Add  y2  cup  sugar  to 
whites  and  beat  well.  Add  remaining  l/2  cup  of  sugar 
to  yolks  and  beat  well.  Then  mix  the  two  and  beat  all 
very  well.  Add  y2  cup  potato  flour,  1  teaspoon  plain 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  sifted.  Beat  all  well 
and  add  essence  of  vanilla  or  lemon.  This  makes  2 
layers.     Bake  about  25  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Filling — Either  regular  butter-cream  filling  or  banana- 
filling  made  by  putting  2  bananas,  1  cup  sugar  and  white 
of  1  egg  in  bowl  and  beating  all  well  with  a  beating 
spoon  until  stiff.  Then  spread  between  layers  and  on 
top  of  cake. 

Another  filling  for  this  cake  is  made  of  jam,  spread 
on  while  the  cake  is  warm.     (Mrs.  George  A.  Bromley.) 

Another  delicious  filling  is  made  by  substituting  pine- 
apples for  the  bananas.     (S.  W.) 

Feather  Filling  (Angelica  Bromley) 

Two  heaping  tablespoons  flour  in  a  cup  of  water,  stir 
well  and  then  strain.  Put  on  stove  and  cook  until  it 
boils.  Cool  and  then  add  y2  cup  butter  and  y2  cup 
pulverized  sugar.  Cream,  and  when  first  is  cold  beat 
in  paste.  Add  l/2  cup  chopped  walnuts  to  filling.  (To 
be  used  with  potato  flour  layer  cake.) 


A  delicious  filling  for  a  chocolate  layer  cake  is  made 
of  powdered  sugar  creamed  with  milk  (cold)  and  with 
chopped  nuts  beaten  into  the  cream.  This  is  good  for 
frosting  as  well  as  filling. — (S.  W.) 


38  A  California  Cook  Book 


Minnehaha  Filling  (Mrs.  Brownlee) 

Boil  1  cup  sugar  with  4  tablespoons  water  until  it 
threads.  Add  white  of  egg  beaten,  Yz  cup  raisins  and 
y2  cup  walnuts. 

Mocha  Filling  (Mrs.  Edward  F.  Smith,  Millbrae) 

One  cupful  confectioner's  sugar,  %.  cup  butter,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  cocoa.  Cream,  and  wet  with 
coffee  until  it  will  spread  smoothly  over  the  cake.  This 
proportion  is  for  a  small  two-layer  cake,  baked  in  jelly- 
cake  tin. 

Mocha  Filling  (Mrs.  Scott) 

Cream  a  fair-sized  pat  of  unsalted  butter,  with  a  cup 
of  powdered  sugar,  beating  until  extremely  light.  Flavor 
with  lJ/2  teaspoons  Turkish  coffee  (comes  in  bottles) 
and  mix  with  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  If  preferred,  three 
tablespoons  grated  chocolate  mixed  with  hot  water  can 
be  used  instead  of  the  coffee.  Chopped  walnuts  can 
be  sprinkled  on  after  spreading. 

"Fluff"  (Mrs.  E.  R.  Bromley) 

White  of  egg  beaten  with  granulated  sugar,  and 
crushed  fruit,  any  kind,  either  berries  or  bananas  or 
pineapple.  When  desired  a  few  fresh  uncrushed  berries 
can  be  placed  on  top  as  a  garnish  decorative  touch, 
and  served  as  shortcake.  Any  kind  of  layer  cake  takes 
this  filling. 

Orange  Filling  (Mrs.  Roach) 

To  the  juice  and  rind  (grated)  of  1  orange  add  enough 
powdered  sugar  to  make  stiff  paste.  Spread  between 
layers  of  cake,  icing  top  layer. 

Lemon  Filling  (Mrs.  Roach) 

One  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Put  all  ingredients 
in  a  double  boiler.  Stir  and  cook  until  the  mixture 
thickens. 

Cake  Frosting  (Mrs.  Roach) 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,  2  tablespoons  cream  and 
powdered  sugar  enough  so  that  it  will  spread  nicely  on 
cake.  Flavor  with  Maple-ine,  and  place  cut  walnuts 
on  top. 


A  California  Cook  Book  39 


Best-Ever  Doughnuts  (Mrs.  Page) 

One  and  one-quarter  cups  sugar,  2  yolks  and  1  whole 
egg,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  y±  teaspoon 
ginger,  4*/>  cups  sifted  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Leave  in  ice  box  or  cold  place  over  night.  Roll  quarter- 
inch  thick  and  fry  in  boiling  fat,  but  not  too  fast. 

Doughnuts  (Mrs.  Pylman) 

Three  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1/3  cup  butter,  3  pints  bread 
sponge.  Mix  with  hands  as  soft  as  possible.  Let  rise. 
Mold  again.  Flour  board.  Roll  dough  about  half  an 
inch  thick.  Cut  out  with  ring.  Fry  in  boiling  oil  or 
lard,  not  less  than  half  an  hour. 

Doughnuts  (Mrs.  C.  O.  Cunningham,  Colfax) 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda,  any  flavoring  desired.  Beat 
together  sugar,  egg  and  milk,  add  soda  dissolved  in 
a  little  water,  then  add  flour  enough  to  roll,  and  the 
flavoring.      Fry  in   boiling  lard  or  oil. 

Oatmeal  Cookies  (Mrs.  Brownlee) 

Three  cups  fine  oatmeal,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  butter 
and  lard  (mixed),  y2  cup  hot  water,  1  cup  sugar,  1  small 
teaspoon  soda  (dissolved  in  hot  water),  pinch  salt. 
Roll  on  floured  board  very  thin. 

Ginger  Snaps  (Mrs.  Brownlee) 

One  large  cup  butter  or  lard,  or  y2  butter  and  l/2 
lard ;  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  y2  cup  hot 
water,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  1 
teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water, 
flour  enough  for  stiff  dough.     Roll  thin. 

Soft  Cream  Cookies  (Mrs.  Brownlee) 

Two  eggs,  2  cups  white  sugar,  y2  cup  butter,  y2  cup 
lard,  1  cup  sour  cream,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
a  little  of  the  cream,  flour  enough  for  soft  dough.  Roll 
54  inch  thick.  Season  with  salt,  and  lemon  or  nutmeg 
flavor. 


Rocks   (Letitia  Flanagan) 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  3 
eggs,  3  cups  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  tea- 
spoon cloves,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water, 
y2  pound  currants,  y2  pound  raisins,  y2  pound  walnuts, 
pinch  salt. 

Cookies   (Mrs.  W.  J.  McCarthy) 

One  egg,  1  cup  sugar,  y2  cup  butter  or  soup  fat,  3 
cups  flour,  %  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla.     Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg 


40  A  California  Cook  Book 


unbeaten  to  sugar  and  butter,  and  beat  until  light,  then 
milk,  and  last  of  all  flour.  Mix  and  roll  very  thin. 
Bake  on  the  top  of  baking-pans. 

Chocolate  Wafers  (Mrs.  Martin) 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  and  slice  butter,  stir  in  2  eggs, 
mix  well,  then  add  y2  cup  chocolate  and  y2  cup  flour; 
stir  and  add  y2  cup  cut  nuts.  These  are  great,  and  can 
be  baked  in  a  sheet  and  then  cut  in  small  rectangles,  or 
dropped  on  the  pan  in  spoonfuls. 

Mother's  Chocolate  Chips  (Mrs.  Meredith  Sawyer) 

One  cup  white  sugar,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  table- 
spoon each  of  butter,  whisky,  vanilla  and  molasses; 
y2  cup  chopped  walnuts,  J4  cup  chopped  raisins;  6 
tablespoons  chocolate;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  y2  tea- 
spoon each  of  cloves  and  allspice;  2y2  cups  flour;  1 
teaspoon  baking  powder;  3  eggs  beaten  together.  Bake 
in  large  shallow  pan. 

Walnut  Wafers  (Mrs.  T.  Longton) 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  pinch  salt,  1  cup  walnuts,  3 
large  tablespoons  flour.  Drop  on  hot  pan,  y2  teaspoonful 
at  a  time.  These  are  delicious  to  serve  with  afternoon 
tea,  or  with  ices. 

Prize  Packages  (Mrs.  R.  C.  Burling) 

Butter  size  of  large  egg,  %  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  y$  cup 
milk,  2  cups  flour,  \y2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  y2  cup 
raisins  (seedless),  y2  cup  walnuts  (chopped).  When 
ready  for  oven  sprinkle  the  top  with  small  pieces  of 
butter,  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  in  flat  pan,  in  sheet. 
Cut  in  shapes  and  wrap  each  in  waxed  paper. 


Utensils  are  an  important  item.  In  a  camp  one  can  cook 
in  the  cans,  and  stir  the  creations  with  a  stick,  but  in  a  well- 
equipped  kitchen  one  should  have  the  best  utensils.  Don't 
have  too  many,  but  get  the  best.  The  tools  should  be  such  as 
help  the  artist.  Why  go  without  them,  when  so  easily  ob- 
tainable? Don't  try  to  do  with  just  a  few  pots  and  pans.  Get 
a  number,  all  sizes,  and  see  how  it  simplifies  matters  when  a 
meal  is  to  be  prepared  in  a  hurry. 


A  California  Cook  Book  41 


ifnt  (Sate*  mxb  Waffle 

Fine  Hot  Cake  Recipe  (Mrs.  Poore) 

At  night  mix  2  cups  sifted  flour,  salt,  1  tablespoon 
corn  meal  and  enough  sour  milk  to  make  stiff  batter. 
Set  over  night.  Next  day  add  1  teaspoon  (level)  soda 
in  warm  water.  Fry  on  hot  griddle  in  large  cakes  to 
cover  whole  griddle.  Place  butter  and  sugar  between, 
aranging  like  a  layer  cake  and  cutting  down  and  serving 
in  sections  like  cake. 

Pancakes  (Mrs.  Charles  Lincoln,  Berkeley) 

One  cup  sour  milk,  1  heaping  cup  flour,  y^  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  J^  teaspoon  soda,  pinch  of  salt,  1  tgg 
beaten,   1  tablespoon  melted  butter  to  be  added  last. 

(These   cakes   are   superlative. — S.   W.) 

Waffles  (Meredith  Sawyer) 

Five  eggs,  1%  pounds  flour,  %  pound  butter,  J4 
pound  sugar  {%  cup),  1  quart  milk,  1  soup  spoon 
full  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt,  inside  of  a  quarter  of 
vanilla  bean,  or  few  drops  of  extract,  a  teaspoon  full  of 
olive  oil. 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar,  then  add  milk,  then  the  sifted 
flour.  Mix  well,  then  add  melted  butter,  then  baking 
powder,  then  salt;  then  flavor  and  stir  in  slowly  the 
olive  oil. 

Note :  This  will  be  thinner  than  ordinary  batter,  but 
it's  all  right. 

(This  recipe  is  copied  exactly  from  the  one  given 
Mr.  Sawyer  by  the  head  chef  at  the  St.  Francis  Hotel. — 
S.  W.) 

Batter  Cakes  (Judge  Frank  Kerrigan) 

One  cup  of  sifted  flour  (one-third  of  this  may  be 
whole  wheat,  rye,  graham  or  fine  corn  meal).  Before 
mixing,  sift  on  the  flour  half  level  teaspoon  each  of  salt 
and  soda,  and  one  level  teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 
Mix  and  add  one  beaten  egg  and  one  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter.  If  cream,  instead  of  milk,  is  used  for 
mixing,  omit  the  butter.  Beat  well  and  cook  on  a  very 
hot  griddle,  very  slightly  greased.  The  bacon  rind 
is  best  for  greasing  griddle. 

German  Pan  Cake  (Mrs.  Martin) 

Two  eggs  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  beaten  well  with  cup 
of  milk.  Add  flour  until  it  is  thick,  beating  with  fork. 
Then  add  a  little  more  milk  to  thin  it.  Drop  on  well 
larded  frying  pan,  one  at  a  time. 


42  A  California  Cook  Book 


Lobscouse — a  nautical  dish  (G.  T.  Bromley) 

Take  salt  pork,  corned  beef,  onions,  carrots  and 
potatoes  and  cut  in  small  dice.  Cook  in  large  stew 
pot  with  a  little  water  to  cover.  When  done  either 
serve  as  a  stew  or  place  in  bake  pan  and  brown  in 
oven.     Serve  with  hot  hardtack. 

Sausages   with  Tomatoes,   Italian   Style   (Mrs.   Francis 
Ghiselli) 

Use  linked  pork  sausages.  Fry  until  brown  and  pour 
off  dripping.  Have  ready  a  can  of  tomatoes.  Brown 
a  few  onions  (and  a  garlic  clove  if  wished)  in  bottom 
of  pan.  Pour  upon  the  browned  onions  the  can  of 
tomatoes  (remove  •  garlic  clove)  and  add  a  few  dice 
of  bell  or  red  peppers,  or  else  add  paprika.  Flavor 
with  cinnamon,  pepper  and  salt.  When  the  tomatoes 
are  well  heated,  add  the  cooked  sausages  and  some 
peeled  potatoes  cut  in  either  small  or  large  pieces,  as 
desired.  When  the  potatoes  are  done  the  dish  is  ready 
to  serve.     It  is  extremely  tasty. 

Vienna  Sausages  with  Cauliflower   (Miss   Campbell) 

Boil  the  cauliflower  in  small  pieces.  Have  ready  2 
cans  of  Vienna  sausages.  When  the  vegetable  is 
cooked,  place  on  dish  with  the  flowers  upstanding  as  if 
growing  in  a  field.  Place  some  of  the  small  leaves 
of  the  cauliflower  around  the  edges  of  dish.  Set  the 
sausages  in  two  towers,  as  they  come  from  the  can 
when  steamed,  in  the  midst  of  the  vegetable.  It  makes 
a  most  artistic  appearance,  and  is  a  quickly  prepared 
and   palatable   luncheon   dish   or   supper   dish. 

Aunt  Margaret's  Baked  Beans  (Mrs.  M.  Sawyer) 

One  cup  dry  beans,  1  tablespoon  dry  mustard,  1 
tablespoon  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  pepper  to  taste, 
i/2  pound  salt  pork.  Soak  beans  over  night.  Boil 
until  soft.  Dissolve  seasoning  in  hot  water  and  pour 
over  beans  before  baking. 

Corned  Beef  Hash  (Henry  J.  Crocker) 

Materials — Potatoes,  onions,  one  tin  of  corned  beef, 
bacon  rind  (or  butter  if  obtainable),  salt  and  pepper. 

Implements — One  coffee  pot  (or  stew-pan),  one  fry- 
ing pan,  one  hunting  knife. 

The  potatoes  should  be  boiled  the  night  before;  the 
coffee  pot  being  often  called  into  service  after  the 
evening  meal  is  over  and  the  smokefest  is  on;  the 
potatoes,  after  being  well  washed,  are  placed  in  the 
coffee  pot,  which  is  now  filled  with  cold  water  and 
placed  on  the  hot  coals,  where  the  water  soon  reaches 
a  boiling  point,  and  the  potatoes  show  they  are  thor- 
oughly cooked  by  the  bursting  of  their  jackets — the 
water  is  drained  off  and  the  potatoes  left  in  the  pot 
near  the  fire  to  cool  off  slowly.  In  the  morning 
the  fire  is  lighted  and  the  onions  are  peeled  and  then 
cut   in   thin   rings,   which   are   afterward    cut   with    the 


A  California  Cook  Book  43 


hunting  knife  into  small  sections,  as  if  they  had  been 
chopped  fine.  A  tin  of  corned  beef  is  now  opened  and 
the  contents  shredded  or  cut  fine.  The  frying  pan  is 
now  placed  on  the  fire  and  prepared  with  the  bacon  fat 
(or  butter,  if  to  be  had) — the  potatoes  being  peeled 
and  sliced  while  the  pan  is  heating — the  chopped 
onions  are  now  thoroughly  cooked  and  placed  aside, 
and  after  a  little  more  grease  is  placed  in  the  frying 
pan  the  potatoes  are  placed  therein,  stirred  and  thor- 
oughly seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  until  they  are 
well  heated,  then  slowly  add  the  well  cooked  onions 
until  the  hash  is  well  browned.  Serve  piping  hot.  (This 
is  camp  style.) 

Beans,  Georgia  Style  (H.  C.  Smith) 

Use  the  small  white  beans.  Soak  the  quantity  de- 
sired in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or  so,  and  then  pour  off 
the  water,  place  in  fresh  cold  water  and  boil  until  quite 
soft,  adding  pork  or  bacon  cut  in  small  squares,  onion 
cut  in  eighths,  and  a  green  or  red  pepper  if  liked.  When 
the  beans  are  thoroughly  cooked  place  in  a  bake  pan 
and  bake  about  half  an  hour  in  the  oven.  Served  with 
hot  cornbread,  or  brown  bread,  these  beans  make  an 
ideal    supper   dish. 


Cold  Salmon,  with  Raisin  Sauce 

The  salmon  is  cooked  whole,  or  cut  in  slices,  and 
boiled,  drained  and  laid  on  dish.  For  the  sauce,  brown 
a  piece  of  butter  in  frying-pan,  with  a  chopped  onion 
and  a  little  sugar.  Soak  a  bit  of  honey-cake  in  l/2  cup 
sour  claret,  and  add  to  other  ingredients  in  saucepan, 
with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  ground  ginger,  also  2 
slices  lemon,  ^2  cup  raisins  and  a  bay  leaf.  Cook  slowly 
and  pour  over  fish.     Serve  cold. 

Stuffed   Milt 

There  are  2  veins  inside  the  milt  which  must  be 
taken  out,  and  then  it  is  scraped.  To  the  inside  is 
added  soaked  bread,  egg,  onion,  chopped  parsley,  and 
seasoning  to  taste,  all  mixed  together  and  then  sewed 
up.  This  is  placed  in  boiling  soup  for  one-half  hour, 
taken  out  and  browned,  and  is  ready  to  serve. 

Sour  Lung 

Prepare  the  lung  by  first  thoroughly  cleaning,  then 
boil  until  soft.  Throw  away  water  and  cut  lung  into 
small  squares.  Put  fat  in  saucepan  and  brown  an 
onion.  Add  flour,  a  tablespoon  sugar  and  2  tablespoons 
vinegar.  Make  smooth  by  adding  1  cup  meat  stock. 
Season  with  ginger,  pepper,  salt,  bay  leaf  and  chopped 
parsley.  The  lung  is  then  placed  in  the  pan  and  all 
cooked  together  slowly  for  twenty  minutes. 

Boiled  beef  can  be  prepared  in  the  same  way.  An- 
other manner  is  to  serve  on  toast.  The  heart  chopped 
as  in  hash,  sometimes  with  the  lung,  sometimes  alone, 
is  another  favorite  "kosher"  dish. 


44  A  California  Cook  Book 


(HtlMBt  Sialyl 


Biquita  Cheese  (Robert  Trevor) 

One  pound  Eastern  cheese,  butter  size  egg.  Dissolve 
in  double  boiler.  Three-quarter  cup  cream,  1  egg, 
cayenne  pepper  and  paprika.  Pour  in  glasses  and  let 
cool. 

Welsh  Rabbit  (Elliott  Crews  Jennings) 

Cut  up  some  cheese  into  small  pieces,  not  too  fresh, 
Eastern  or  California  preferred.  Pour  a  little  beer  or 
ale  into  a  frying  pan  or  chafing  dish,  and  let  the  cheese 
melt  into  it.  Season  with  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt, 
pepper,  paprika  and  tabasco  sauce  if  liked.  Have  ready 
hot  soda  crackers  or  thin  slices  of  toast  and  pour  the 
rabbit  on  them.     Serve  immediately. 

Welsh  Rarebit  (Mullaly) 

Place  a  half  pint  of  Bass  ale  in  a  small  saucepan  with 
a  tablespoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt,  little  cayenne 
pepper,  and  as  soon  as  it  briskly  boils  add  20  ounces 
very  rich,  fresh,  finely  chopped  American  cheese  and 
continually  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  thoroughly 
melted.  Have  eight  fresh  slices  of  toast  on  eight  small 
dishes,  cover  with  the  cheese  and  send  to  the  table  as 
hot  as  possible.  If  wanted  extra  hot  the  dishes  of 
rarebit  can  be  placed  in  the  oven  for  a  few  moments 
before  sending  to  the  table.    (For  eight  persons.) 


"fflamutfT  Italy** 


{{T  LOATHE  canned  goods — never  use  them;  fear 
1  them."  Thus  one  has  heard  a  housewife  exclaim. 
But  why  ban  canned  products — in  this  State, 
where  the  most  delicious  fruits,  vegetables  and  meats 
come  in  cans?  Wonderful  dishes  can  be  concocted  from 
cans.  People  who  have  not  experimented  with  canned 
goods,  or  who  consider  them  unwholesome,  make  an 
enormous  mistake.  Most  excellent  meals  can  be  gotten 
up  from  cans.  With  canned  peas,  beans  (string)  and 
asparagus,  one  can  make  a  perfect  salad,  and  the  sliced 
canned  tomatoes  are  also  fine  in  salads.  A  can  of 
oxtail  soup  used  for  gravy  stock  metamorphoses  a 
second  day  cut  of  meat  into  a  stew  or  fancy  roast  that 
an  epicure  would  enjoy.  Tomato  soup  can  also  be 
used  for  gravy,  either  on  hamburger  steak  or  warmed 
over  meat.  The  chili-tomato  is  nice  on  spaghetti  or  rice 
or  raviola.  A  Mexican  dinner  can  be  arranged  in  two 
seconds  with  canned  tamales  or  enchiladas,  the  en- 
cased ones  used  for  garnish ;  canned  spaghetti  and 
chili  con  carne.  Then  with  a  salad  of  string  beans  and 
a  little  fresh  lettuce,  the  dinner  is  a  joy  throughout. 
Canned  sausages  are  always  tasty,  and  can  be  com- 
bined in  all  sorts  of  ways  with  vegetables.  Canned 
mushrooms  may  not  be  so  good  as  fresh,  but  are  tasty 
in  sauces.  A  can  of  boned  chicken  with  a  can  of 
mushrooms  can  be  turned  into  a  remarkable  pie,  with 
creamed  gravy,  and  a  biscuit  crust. 


A  California  Cook  Book  45 


Spanish  Bun — a  typical  Canadian  recipe   (Mrs.  Charles 

A.  Allen,   Vancouver,  B.   C.) 

Four  eggs — leave  out  3  whites ;  $4  cup  butter,  2 
cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2y2  cups  flour,  3 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  teaspoons  each  cinnamon 
and  allspice.     Make  frosting  of  the  whites. 

Nut    Bread     (Mrs.     Greenfield- McDonald,     Vancouver, 

B.  C.) 

Two  or  three  eggs,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  4  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  y2  cup  chopped  wal- 
nuts. Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  2  or  3  eggs  and  enough 
milk  to  mix  like  biscuits.  Knead  lightly  and  mold  into 
two  loaves.  Let  rise  thirty  minutes.  Bake  one-half 
or  three-quarters  hour. 

Nut  Bread  (Mrs.  Martin) 

Three  cups  flour,  \y2  cup  milk,  £4  CUP  brown  sugar,  1 
cup  walnuts,  1  even  teaspoon  salt,  4  even  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder 
into  milk  and  sugar;  add  nuts,  stir  well  and  place  in 
well  greased  loaf  tin.  Let  stand  ten  minutes  before 
baking.    Bake  one  hour  in  slow  oven. 

Nut  Bread  (Mrs.  T.  Longton) 

One  and  one-half  cups  white  flour,  y2  cup  cornmeal, 
y2  cup  graham  flour,  y2  cup  molasses,  y2  cup  brown 
sugar,  1  cup  walnuts,  1  pint  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon 
baking  soda,  y2  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt. 
Bake   about  hour  in   slow  oven. 

Corn  and  Rice  Bread,  to  be  served  with  Roast   (Mrs. 
Meade) 

One  cup  cold  boiled  rice  warmed  until  soft  in  a  little 
hot  milk.  Pour  a  cup  of  hot  milk  on  1  scant  cup  of 
cornmeal.  Add  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
2  tablespoons  sugar  to  the  soft  rice.  Let  this  stand  so 
the  cornmeal  will  soften,  and  before  baking  add  1 
heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Bake  twenty  minutes 
in  hot  oven. 

Biscuits  (Miss  Connell) 

A  quart  of  flour,  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  and  4  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Sift 
all  together.  Work  in  a  good  tablespoon  of  shortening 
with  a  fork,  and  add  milk  enough  to  make  workable 
dough.  If  sour  milk  is  used  add  enough  baking  soda 
to  correct  the  acidity.  If  just  "blinkey"  a  few  grains, 
but  of  clabber  almost  a  quarter  teaspoon.  Roll 
out  half  an  inch  thick  or  more  and  handle  as  little 
as  possible.  They  may  stand  five  or  ten  minutes  be- 
fore baking.  Sugar  is  merely  to  get  a  nice  even  brown, 
not  enough  to  taste,  and  can  be  left  out. 


46  A  California  Cook  Book 


Cornbread  (S.  W.) 

One  cup  white  flour,  1  cup  cornmeal,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  all 
sifted  together;  milk  to  make  medium  soft  batter.  If 
sour  milk  is  used,  add  pinch  of  soda;  1  egg  not  beaten. 
Add  a  tablespoon  melted  butter  to  dry  ingredients,  be- 
fore adding  milk.  Place  in  very  hot  larded  pan  and 
bake  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  If  more  corn- 
meal  is  preferred,  use  2  parts  meal  to  1  part  white 
flour.  If  lard  is  used  for  shortening  instead  of  butter, 
do  not  use  quite  so  much.  Molasses  can  be  used  in- 
stead of  sugar  for  sweetening,  if  preferred.  If  a  very 
large  cornbread  is  wished,  use  2  eggs  and  twice  the 
quantity    of   above. 

Excellent  Muffins   (S.  W.) 

Two  eggs,  2  cups  flour  sifted  twice,  1  cup  milk,  sweet 
or  sour  (if  the  latter,  use  pinch  soda),  1  teaspoon 
sugar,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  pinch  salt, 
1  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Sift  dry  ingredients  to- 
gether and  add  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten  and  the  milk, 
then  the  whites  well  beaten,  and  last  of  all  the  melted 
butter.  Bake  in  hissing  hot  muffin  tins  about  twenty 
minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Popovers  (Florence  Byington,  San  Francisco) 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  flour,  pinch  of  salt. 
Beat  eggs  well,  add  milk  and  salt,  beat  well,  then  add 
flour.  Beat  all  well  and  place  in  hissing  hot  buttered 
pan.  Bake  in  hot  oven,  diminishing  heat  gradually, 
for  one-half  hour.  Do  not  take  out  of  oven  immedi- 
ately, but  open  the  door  for  a  little  while  first.  The 
secret  of  successful  popovers  is  all  in  the  baking. 

Date  Bread  (Mrs.  Gilmour  Van  Wagenen) 

Three  cups  graham  flour,  1  cup  walnuts,  1  cup  dates, 
3  cups  brown  sugar,  J/2  teaspoon  salt,  lj4  cups  sour 
milk,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Mix  dry  ingredients  and  add 
milk. 

Boston  Brown  Bread  (Mrs.  Roach) 

One  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
y2  cup  molasses,  1  teaspoon  soda,  y2  cup  white  flour, 
3  cups  graham  flour.  Dissolve  soda  in  a  little  hot 
water  and  stir  into  molasses.  Mix  stiff  and  steam  three 
or  four  hours. 

Equal  parts  of  graham  and  white  flour,  and  corn- 
meal,  and  a  dash  of  bran,  make  excellent  foundation 
for  brownbread.     (S.  W.) 


A  piece  of  sandpaper  and  a  pumice-stone  are  indispensables 
in  a  kitchen,  says  Mrs.  Sterling  Mighels.  The  sandpaper  will 
clean  the  bottom  of  an  iron-pot,  or  any  kind  of  pan,  better 
than  will  anything  else.  An  ordinary  paint  brush,  the  flat 
kind,  is  excellent  for  dishwashing  instead  of  a  mop  or  rag, 
says  the  same  authority. 


A  California  Cook  Book  47 


3x\x  Sty*  Pantrjj 

Orange  Marmalade  (Mrs.  Mayo) 

Twelve  large  oranges,  4  lemons.  Slice  fruit  quite 
thin;  add  1  quart  cold  water  to  every  pound  of  fruit. 
Let  it  stand  until  next  day.  Then  boil  slowly,  un- 
covered, until  the  fruit  is  very  tender,  after  which  let 
stand  again  until  next  day.  Then  to  every  pound  of 
fruit  add  Y\  pound  of  sugar,  and  boil  until  it  jells.  Put 
a  maraschino  cherry  in  each  glass,  to  make  it  look  more 
attractive. 


For  Quick  Marmalade 

Six  oranges,  2  lemons,  3  quarts  water.  Let  these  boil 
forty-five  minutes,  then  add  3  quarts  sugar,  and  let 
boil  until  it  jells.  It  will  require  about  two  hours  for 
the  last  boiling. 

Grape  Fruit  Marmalade  (Mrs.  G.  A.  Bromley) 

One  lemon,  1  orange,  1  grape  fruit.  Cut  all  up  fine. 
After  fruit  is  cut  up,  measure  cup  fruit  to  3  cups  of 
water  and  let  stand  over  night.  Next  day  boil  four 
minutes  and  let  stand  again  over  night.  Then  measure 
a  cup  of  fruit  to  cup  of  sugar,  then  boil  from  two  and 
one-half  to  three  hours. 

Jack  Horner  (Mrs.  G.  A.  Bromley) 

Five  pounds  currants.  Strain  as  for  jelly.  Three 
pounds  oranges,  prepared  as  for  marmalade.  Two 
pounds  raisins,  5  pounds  sugar.  Boil  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes. 

Mince  Meat  (Mrs.  Brownlee) 

Two  pounds  lean  beef,  1  pound  suet,  3  pounds 
raisins,  2  pounds  currants,  4  chopped  apples,  1  lemon, 
orange  and  citron  peel,  2  cups  brown  sugar  and  grated 
rind  of  2  lemons,  1  quart  brandy,  2  oranges,  1  quart 
boiled  cider,  2  tablespoons  salt,  2  nutmegs,  1  tablespoon 
cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  clove  and  mace. 

Green  Tomato  Sauce  (Mrs.  Robert  Barker) 

Slice  1  peck  tomatoes  into  jar,  sprinkling  salt  over 
each  layer.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Drain  off 
liquor  and  add  1  teaspoon  each  of  ginger,  allspice,  clove, 
mace,  cinnamon  and  horseradish,  3  large  or  12  small 
red  peppers,  3  large  onions,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  cover 
with  vinegar.     Boil  slowly  three  hours. 

Chili  Sauce  (Mrs.  William  Key-worth) 

Twenty-four  large  ripe  tomatoes,  6  large  onions,  2 
large  peppers,  8  tablespoons  brown  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons cinnamon,  4  tablespoons  salt,  4  cups  vinegar, 
pinch  soda.     Boil  until  thick. 

Use  a  good  white  soap  for  dishwashing;  it  saves  the  hands. 

In  using  liquid  veneer  for  dusting,  always  be  careful  to 
protect  the  hands  with  gloves,  as  the  veneer  is  very  hard  upon 
the  delicate  flesh,  filling  the  palms  with  black  stains,  and 
making   the    finger-nails    brittle. 


fir 


\* 


6* 


h 


V  .  «   •  o  "^ 


«> 


^'^   "%     y:  **  ^   j. 


s3  ^ 


Cv    ♦ 


0' 


/....V*    u\f° 


♦*01 


»V         .  <   • 


>0^ 


V 


^o  V* 


^       4?       .Vfc  **      A*        »'j 


-1  CL 


^ 


>°.;ii#:-**     *v\*:*^\.     y.:^:..^     .A; 


W 


*._/»-J-i_.    ■.  o  ^         • 


**  ^   •£ 


^* 


^     . 


^°\ 


C,^P  if 


**o« 


Cv    ♦ 


*       o 


DOBIS  BROS.  tf  •  A^*^ 

ST.  AUGUSTINE         -^      ,  *^^V'.     % 
32084    ^U, 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


': 


