Historic,  archived  document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


library 

i« 

OF  THE 

UNITED  STATES 

department  of  agriculture 

Class 

Book  


8—1577 


■ > 


UNCLE  SAM’S  ADYICE 
TO  HOUSEWIVES 


COMPILED  FROM  ' 

GOVERNMENT  BULLETINS 

IN  TWO  VOLUMES 


BY 

VERA  L.  CONNOLLY 

» V y 


VoL.  I --  I-  ^ 


NEW  YORK 

THE  CHRISTIAN  HERALD 
BIBLE  HOUSE 


Copyright,  1917 

BY  i 

THE  CHRISTIAN  HERALD  ^ 


-JAN  -2  !S  18 


i"' 


/ 


0)Ci.A479784 


4 ,^  0 % 


'I 


U.  S.  FOOD  ADMINISTRATION 

Washington,  D.C. 


October  11, 1917. 


(O 


o 


The  Christian  Herald  in  gathering  together  in 
book  form  a number  of  the  important  bulletins  of 
the  Department  of  Agriculture,  together  with  Ten 
Lessons  on  Food  Conservation  ’’  published  by  the 
U.  S.  Food  Administration,  is  performing  a distinct 
service  in  the  present  emergency. 

U.  S.  Food  Administration. 


CONTENTS! 


CBAPTEB  PAGE 

I.  Lessons  on  Food  Conservation 1 

Food  the  Deciding  Factor.  Save  the  Wheat; 
the  Meat;  the  Sugar;  the  Fats.  Eliminate  Waste. 

II.  What  the  Body  Needs 34 

The  Day's  Food.  Sample  Meals.  What  the 


Food  Should  Provide.  Grouping  Foods  to  Show 
their  Uses.  How  to  Tell  whether  or  not  the  Diet 
is  Adequate.  General  Suggestions. 

III.  Fresh  Fruits  and  Vegetables  as  Conservers 

OF  Other  Staple  Foods 51 

Uses  in  the  War  Emergency  Diet.  Classification 
of  Staple  Food  Savers.  Using  Green  Beans  and 
Peas  to  Save  Meat.  Using  Potatoes  to  Save 
Cereals.  Using  Fruits  to  Save  Sugar.  Making 
Fresh  Fruits  and  Vegetables  help  out  on  the  Pro- 
tein and  Fuel  of  the  Diet.  A Day's  Bill  of  Fare. 
Vegetable  Recipes.  Conclusions. 

IV.  Care  op  Food  in  the  Home 63 

Yeasts,  Molds  and  Bacteria,  and  the  Spoiling  of 
Food.  Flies.  Dust.  Pet  Animals  in  the  Kitchen. 

The  Food  Supply.  Clean  Shops  and  Markets. 
Sanitation  of  Bakeries.  Quality  of  Meats;  Poul- 
try; Fish;  Vegetables.  Commercial  Cold  Storage. 
Storeroom  in  the  Home.  Hot-Weather  Storage. 

Ice  Machine.  Ice  Chests.  Water  for  Cooling 
Food.  Keeping  Vegetables,  Fruits,  Meats.  Stor- 
age of  Groceries,  Canned  Goods,  and  Cooked  Foods. 

Care  and  Use  of  Fats.  Handling  of  Food  and 
Utensils  in  the  Kitchen.  Washing  Vegetables, 
Fruits,  Eggs.  Dishwashing.  Care  of  Water 
Cooler.  Personal  Cleanliness  in  the  Kitchen.  Use 
of  Paper.  Cleanliness  in  Public  Eating  Places. 


V 


VI 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER  PAGE 

V.  The  Home  Vegetable  Garden. 125 


Location  of  Garden.  Plan  and  Arrangement. 
Preparation  of  Soil.  Fertilizers.  Seeds  and  Plants. 

The  Seed  Bed.  Handling  of  Plants.  Time  of 
Planting.  Protection  of  Plants.  Cultivation  of 
Garden  Crops.  Irrigation.  Precautions  to  Avoid 
Attacks  of  Insects  and  Diseases.  Cultural  Hints. 
Gardener's  Planting  Table. 

VI.  Home  Canning  op  Fruits  and  Vegetables 191 

{As  Taught  to  Canning  Club  Members  in  the 
Southern  States.) 

Sterilization.  Equipment  for  Canning  in  the 
Home.  Canning  in  Glass.  Canning  in  Tin. 
Time-table  for  Canning  Vegetables.  Time-table  for 
Canning  Fruits.  Jams,  Fruit  Butters,  and  Marma- 
lades. Preserving.  Jelly  Making. 

VII.  Home  Canning  by  the  One-period,  Cold-pack 

Method 247 

{Taught  to  Canning  Club  Members  in  the  Northern 
and  Western  States.) 

Preparations  for  Canning.  Steps  in  Canning. 
Equipment  Required.  Number  of  Cans  or  Jars  per 
Bushel.  Legal  Restrictions  upon  Sale  of  Canned' 
Products.  Altitude  Changes  and  Home  Canning. 
Seasoning.  Sirups.  Canning  Fruit  without 
Sugar.  Canning  Directions.  Time-table  for  Can- 
ning. Special  Precautions  and  Suggestions.  Han- 
dling and  Sealing  Containers. 

VIII.  Drying  Fruits  and  Vegetables 296 

Principles  and  Methods  of  Drying.  Preparing 
Food  for  the  Drier.  Apparatus  for  Drying.  Direc- 
tions. Precautions  against  Insects.  Directions 
for  Packing  and  Storing.  Recipes  for  Cooking 
Dried  Fruits  and  Vegetables. 

IX.  Preservation  op  Vegetables  by  Fermentation 

and  Salting 326 

General  Principles  of  the  Method.  Equipment 
Needed.  Fermentation  with  Dry  Salting.  Fer- 


CONTENTS 


vii 


CHAPTER  PAGE 

mentation  in  Brine.  Salting  without  Fermenta- 
tion. Care  and  Storage  of  Fermented  and  Salted 
Products.  Preparation  for  the  Table. 

X.  Home  Storage  of  Vegetables  and  Eggs 346 

Types  of  Storage.  Storage  of  Various  Vege- 
tables. Storage  of  Apples.  Preservation  and 
Storage  of  Eggs. 

XI.  Preparation  of  Vegetables  for  the  Table  . . . 368 
Structure  and  Composition  of  Vegetables.  Class- 
ification of  Vegetables.  General  Principles  Under- 
lying Vegetable  Cooking.  Blanching  as  a Cooking 
Process.  Waste  in  Preparing  Vegetables.  Losses 
in  Cooking.  Changes  that  Take  Place.  Cabbage. 
Cauliflower.  Broccoli.  Brussels  Sprouts.  Kale  or 
Borecole.  Sea  Kale.  Spinach.  Lettuce.  Swiss 
Chard.  Beet  Greens.  Asparagus.  Globe  Arti- 
choke. Spring  Greens.  Green  Peas.  Sugar  Peas. 
Beans.  Green  or  String  Beans.  Shelled  Kidney 
Beans.  Dried  Beans.  Lentils.  Cowpeas.  Pota- 
toes. Sweet  Potatoes.  Jerusalem  Artichokes. 
Turnips.  Carrots.  Parsnips.  Salsify.  Beets. 
Kohl-rabi  or  Turnip  Cabbage.  Celeriac.  Celery. 
Onion.  Cucumbers.  Tomatoes.  Green  Peppers. 
Eggplant.  Squash.  Green  Corn.  Vegetable  Hash. 
Rice.  Hominy  and  Corn  Meal.  Vegetable  Soups. 
Seasonings  and  Sauces  for  Vegetables.  Salads  and 
Salad  Dressings. 

XII.  Economical  Use  of  Meat  in  the  Home 437 

Apparent  and  Actual  Cost  of  Different  Cuts. 
Texture  and  Flavor  of  Meat.  General  Methods  of 
Preparing  Meat  for  the  Table.  Reducing  Expense 
of  Meat  in  the  Diet.  Lessening  Amount  Used. 
Buying  Meat  in  Quantity  for  Home  Use.  Using 
Fat,  Bones,  Trimming  and  Left-over  Cold  Meats. 
How  to  Extend  Flavor  of  Meat.  Utilizing  Cheaper 
Cuts  of  Meat  in  Palatable  Dishes.  Developing 
and  Improving  Flavor  of  Meat.  Sauces. 


CONTENTS 


,*vm 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

XIII.  Corn  Meal  as  a Food  and  Ways  of  Using  It  . . 488 

White  and  Yellow  Corn  and  Corn  of  Other 
Colors.  The  Cooking  of  Corn  Meal.  Corn-meal 
Bread.  Corn-meal  Puffs,  Griddle-cakes  and 
Waffles.  Corn  Meal  and  Meat  Dishes.  Corn-meal 
Puddings.  Corn-meal  Cakes. 

XIV.  Bread  and  Bread  Making  in  the  Home 516 

Qualities  of  Good  Bread.  Principal  Require- 
ments in  Bread  Making.  Recipes  for  Making 
Bread.  How  to  Judge  Bread.  Nutritive  Value  of 
Bread  and  Its  Place  in  the  Diet. 

XV.  Cheese  and  Its  Economical  Uses  in  the  Diet  . . 551 

Kinds  of  Cheese  Used  in  American  Homes.  Care 
of  Cheese  in  the  Home.  Cheese  as  a Food.  Nutri- 
tive Value  of  Cheese.  Digestibility  of  Cheese.  Use 
in  the  Diet.  Making  Cheese  the  Central  Food. 
Homemade  Cheese.  Cheese  Dishes.  Those  which 
May  be  Used  as  Substitutes  for  Meat.  Cheese 
Soups,  and  Vegetables  Cooked  with  Cheese.  Cheese 
Salads,  Sandwiches,  and  Similar  Dishes.  Cheese 
Pastry,  Sweets  and  Similar  Dishes.  Conclusion. 


XVI.  Honey  and  Its  Uses  in  the  Home 600 

Food  Value  of  Honey.  Flavor.  Wholesome- 
ness. Uses  of  Honey.  Honey  in  Cookery. 

XVII.  Food  for  Young  Children 641 

Suggested  Bills-of-Fare.  Food  Group  No.  1: 
Milk  and  Dishes  Made  Chiefly  from  It,  Fish 


Poultry,  Eggs  and  Meat  Substitutes.  Food  Group 
No.  2:  Bread  and  Other  Cereals.  Food  Group 
No.  3:  Butter,  Cream,  Table  Oil  and  other  Fatty 
Foods.  Food  Group  No.  4:  Vegetables  and 
Fruits.  Food  Group  No.  5:  Simple  Sweets.  A 
Review. 

XVIII  School  Lunches 668 

Foods  for  Children.  The  Place  of  Bread  in  the 
Diet.  Milk  and  Ways  of  Using  It.  Other  Pro- 
tein Foods.  Importance  of  Green  Vegetables  and 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTEB  PAGE 

Fruits  in  the  Diet.  Desserts  and  Their  Selection. 
Foods  Conveniently  Grouped.  The  «Noon  Meal  at 
Home.  Bills-of-Fare  for  the  Hoihe  Lunch*?;  I'he 
Basket  Lunch.  Packing  the  1 Lunch.  Bills-of-Fare 
for  Basket  Lunch.  Lunches  Partly  or  Wholly 
Prepared  at  School.  Simple  Bills-of-Fare  for  School 
Use.  Lunches  Served  by  the  School.  Costs. 
Problems  of  the  Rural  School  Lunch.  Recipes  for 
School-lunch  Dishes.  Summary 

XIX.  Homemade  Fireless  Cookers  and  their  Use  . . 707 
How  to  Make  a Homemade  Fireless  Cooker. 

How  to  Use  the  Fireless  Cooker.  Recipes  for  Use 
wi+h  Fireless  Cooker. 


■ ! 
v. 


)- 


\ 


/ ' 


OEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 


WASHINGTON 


October  25,  1917. 


ISr,  Theodore  Waters, 

Secretary,  The  Christian  Herald, 
New  York  City, 


Deer  Sin 


I have,  your  letter  of  October  15,  in  ^ich  you  announce  your’ 
purpose  to  publish  a two  volume  set  of  bulletins  of  the  Department 
of  Agriculture,  I can  see  no  objection  to  the  use  of  the  Department's 
publications  under  the  conditions  indicated  In  your  letter,  I think 
it  important,  also,  that  yoir  volumes  should  carry  a specific  statement 
to  the  effect  that  the  bulletins  included  therein  may  be  secured 
directly  from  the  Government,  many  of  them  free  of  charge.  The  follow- 
ing  sentence  is  suggested  for  this  puiposei 

Many  of  the  publications  listed  herein  may  be  obtained  free  upon 
application  to  the  United  States  Depairtment  of  Agriculture,  Wa^ington, 
D,  C*  Others  .may  bo  obtained  from  the  Superintendent  of  Documents, 
Government  Printing  Office  upon  the  payment  of  a specified  sum. 


Respectfully, 


Secretary^ 


UNITED  STATES 
FOOD  ADMINISTRATION 


Extracts  from 

Ten  Lessons  on 
Food  Conservation 


FOOD  THE  DECIDING  FACTOR 

This  year  there  is  not  enough  food  in  the  world 
for  the  world’s  needs.  This  is  the  fact,  whether  the  war 
be  long  or  short  and  regardless  of  its  outcome. 

Our  allies  must  have  more  food  than  they  can  raise, 
and  we  must  send  them  more  than  we  can  readily 
spare.  To  do  this  requires  a few  definite  changes  in 
our  daily  habits,  but  they  can  easily  be  made.  Neither 
producers  nor  dealers  nor  consumers  can  effect  this 
alone.  The  women  who  administer  our  households 
can  not  bring  it  about.  It  can  not  be  done  by  legis- 
lation. Only  by  cooperation — ^universal,  generous, 
whole-souled,  decisive — can  we  do  it.  This  coopera- 
tion must  begin  in  the  home.  Housewife,  father, 
and  children  are  equally  concerned  and  equally  imder 
obUgation  to  enter  the  partnership.  The  outcome  of 
the  war  and  the  welfare  of  the  world  depend  upon  their 
actively  participating  with  others  in  this  program. 

Why  is  the  great  issue  of  success  or  failure  in  this 


2 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


war  dependent  on  the  United  States?  What  causes 
brought  about  this  universal  shortage  of  food? 

First.  Unkindness  of  nature.  Late  springs,  droughts, 
hurricanes,  poor  conditions  of  rainfall,  unexpected 
frosts,  and  periods  of  intense  heat  have  played  havoc 
with  crops  the  world  over.  The  season  of  1916  will  go 
down  as  one  of  the  worst  seasons  in  agricultural  his- 
tory. Our  own  crop  of  winter  wheat  is  below  normal. 
Argentina,  normally  an  exporting  country,  claims  to 
have  barely  enough  wheat  for  her  own  needs. 

Second.  Reduced  productivity  of  the  soil  in  Europe. 
This  condition  has  been  brought  about  by  bad  manage- 
ment, unskilled  work,  and  lack  of  fertilizers;  and 
these  in  turn  can  be  explained  by  the  withdrawal  of 
men  from  farm  and  field  to  army  and  factory,  and  the 
employment  on  the  soil  of  overworked  women,  unskilled 
old  men,  and  listless  prisoners.  Furthermore,  the 
vicious  submarine  has  sunk  boat  after  boat  filled  with 
nitrates  and  fertilizers,  conspiring  to  augment  the 
pauperization  of  the  earth,  so  that  reduction  in  soil 
productivity  was  inevitable.  For  three  years  the  world 
has  been  engaged  in  a ghastly  competition  of  destruc- 
tion and  the  soil  is  now  beginning  to  take  its  revenge. 

Such  depletion  in  food  supplies  as  these  causes  have 
brought  about  has  made  of  food  conservation  an  im- 
perative necessity.  One  striking  example  of  this  is 
seen  in  the  fact  that  in  Germany  to-day  no  food  is 
fried.  It  is  all  boiled  or  stewed.  Grease  from  the 
kitchen  sink  is  carefully  treasured,  and  soap,  the 
basis  of  which  is  edible  fat,  has  become  a luxury  of 
millionaires.  Candles,  another  fat  product,  have 
disappeared.  France  and  England  also  lack  fats, 
though  in  a lesser  degree,  and  unless  the  women  of 
America  realize  the  extreme  importance  of  not  wasting 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


3 


and  of  not  consuming  one  unnecessary  bit  of  butter 
or  other  animal  fat,  we  may  later  be  in  the  same 
predicament. 

But  the  problem  of  food  production  and  conservation 
and  the  necessity  for  a food  administration  to  deal 
with  it  would  have  arisen  whether  we  entered  the  war 
or  not.  The  nations  of  Europe  that  are  now  our 
allies  have  always  been  large  importers  of  our  food- 
stuffs. Because  of  their  absorption  in  hostilities  dur- 
ing the  last  three  years  they  have  been  forced  to  buy 
from  us  an  ever-increasing  proportion  of  their  food- 
stuffs. This  demand  must  inevitably  have  grown 
more  pressing,  and  our  own  spare  resources  as  events 
progressed  would  inevitably  have  been  exhausted. 

Nor  would  the  coming  of  peace  solve  the  food 
problem.  Most  people  are  under  the  dangerous  de- 
lusion that  the  mere  ceasing  of  the  firing  of  the  big 
guns  would  bring  bread  to  the  world’s  table.  That 
idea  must  be  banished.  It  is  essential  that  the  nation 
should  reahze  the  permanency  of  our  food  problem. 
Peace,  so  far  as  we  are  concerned,  means  that  to  the 
demands  of  those  who  are  now  our  allies  would  be 
added  the  demands  of  those  who  are  now  our  enemies. 
We  could  not  be  indifferent  to  their  hunger  and  so  our 
diminished  stores  would  be  still  more  rapidly  depleted. 

Why,  theuj  if  food  exhaustion  is  so  universal,  may 
we  not  rely  on  the  speedy  collapse  of  Germany’s 
resistance?  . The  answer  is  that  before  the  war  Germany 
and  her  allies  were  almost  four-fifths  self-supporting, 
whereas  England  was  only  one-fifth,  France  one-half, 
and  Italy,  at  an  optimistic  estimate,  perhaps  two- 
thirds.  Germany,  moreover,  was  a nation  given  to 
over-eating.  The  reduction  of  her  rations  was  at  first 
a benefit  rather  than  a detriment  to  her  population. 


4 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Although  in  the  last  two  years  she  has  suffered  severely 
her  problem  from  the  beginning  has  been  only  to  in- 
crease her  production  by  approximately  25  per  cent. 
In  spite  of  bad  harvests  she  seems  to  have  been  able  at 
least  to  meet  the  emergency,  and  if  reports  do  not 
falsify  she  can  do  so  indefinitely.  She  has  possessed 
herself  of  what  used  to  be  the  western  fringe  of  Russia. 
She  is  cultivating  much  of  Belgium  and  a large  acre- 
age of  northern  France.  Her  latest  conquest  of  Rou- 
mania  has  given  her  possession  of  the  plains  around 
the  lower  Danube,  perhaps  the  most  fertile  soil  in  the 
world.  Further,  Germany  has  a tremendous  and 
intricate  food  organization  and  no  one  within  her 
borders  dares  to  waste  a crumb.  Considering  all  these 
facts  it  would  be  the  height  of  folly  for  America  to 
assume  anything  less  than  Germany’s  power  to  endure. 

The  position  of  our  allies  in  western  Europe  is  essen- 
tially different.  Dependent,  even  in  peace  times,  on 
importations  from  the  outside,  they  drew  their  food- 
stuffs from  almost  every  other  country  in  the  world. 
They  can  not  now  get  supplies  from  central  Europe — 
Germany,  Austria-Hungary,  Bulgaria,  and  Turkey — 
with  which  they  are  at  war.  Neither  can  they  obtain 
grain  from  Roumania  nor  from  Russia.  With  the  best 
will  in  the  world  to  aid,  and  presurnably  large  stores 
of  foodstuffs  to  sell,  Russia  is  handicapped  by  the 
disorganization  of  her  railroads.  Even  before  the 
revolution  her  transportation  system  was  paralyzed. 
To  correct  these  conditions  overnight  is  impossible. 
There  will  have  to  be  a national  rehabilitation  before 
the  allies  can  reasonably  hope  for  help  from  their 
great  free  friend  of  the  East.  India  and  Australia, 
too,  can  send  but  a part  of  their  surplus  to  England 
or  France  because  of  the  shortage  of  tonnage  caused 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


5 


by  the  depredations  of  the  submarines.  Further- 
more, the  long  trip  from  these  far  countries  to  the  home 
ports  is  uneconomical  and  wasteful  at  a time  when 
every  inch  of  cargo  space  and  every  hour  of  cargo  time 
has  to  be  conserved.  Nor  can  help  be  looked  for 
from  the  great  food-producing  nations  of  South  America, 
for  they  also  have  shared  in  the  general  crop  depression, 
and  it  is  doubtful  if  they  will  have  enough  even  for 
themselves. 

The  United  States  is  the  greatest  food-producing 
country.  We  have  a larger  acreage  of  land  in  crops 
than  any  other  nation,  except  perhaps  China.  This 
acreage  is  nearly  equal  to  that  of  all  Europe,  excluding 
Russia.  For  the  moment  Russia's  crops  count  only 
for  herself.  From  all  this  it  will  be  clear  that  what 
our  allies  need  from  us  in  the  way  of  cereals  for  human 
and  animal  food  is  enormous.  Their  total  require- 
ments are  nearly  1,000,000,000  bushels.  Of  this 
amount  native  production  and  imports  from  other 
countries  can  supply  but  a small  part;  most  of  it 
must  come  from  us.  Yet  this  amount  is  far  beyond 
any  surplus  that  we  shall  have  if  we  keep  up  our 
usual  eating  habits.  We  have  never  exported  more 
than  500,000,000  bushels  of  cereals  in  a year,  yet  the 
needs  abroad  call  for  nearly  twice  that. 

The  moral  is  clear.  We  must  reduce  our  own  con- 
sumption. Our  highest  obligation  in  this  war  is  to 
make  sure  that  we  do  not  fail  our  allies  in  their  hour  of 
need,  just  as  our  deepest  duty  to  ourselves  is  to  plan 
to-day,  intelligently  and  patriotically,  to  provide  against 
the  possible  shortage  of  next  spring.  It  is  within  our 
power  not  only  to  protect  ourselves  and  to  create  a 
surplus  big  enough  to  meet  the  most  pressing  needs 
of  these  people  if  we  enforce  on  ourselves  a few  minor 


6 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


economies.  Akeady  our  allies  have  sacrificed  their 
bravest  and  best  for  the  cause  which  is  now  our  cause. 
Their  sacrifices  must  go  on,  but  they  must  not  be 
allowed  to  starve.  However  generous  our  giving,  this 
summer  and  fall  there  confronts  France  and  England 
and  Italy  the  blackest  and  most  agonizing  winter  they 
have  ever  had  to  endure.  Such  minor  deprivations  as 
we  may  suffer  seem  petty  in  comparison.  Regulate 
ourselves  we  must  if  only  to  keep  them  in  the  trenches 
and  to  avert  high  prices,  discontent,  and  general  busi- 
ness and  industrial  depression  in  America  this  winter 
and  next  spring.  Loyalty  to  those  whose  cause  we 
have  espoused  and  duty  to  ourselves  counsel  and  oblige 
us  to  economy. 

There  is  no  suggestion  of  dictation  in  this  appeal. 
The  economies  outlined  impose  no  hardships.  All 
must  do  their  bit,  but  in  applying  the  measures  our 
nation’s  chief  reliance  must  be  on  the  women.  They 
have  the  direction  of  the  households  of  the  land.  In 
this,  as  in  all  wars,  their  great  service  is  the  all-im- 
portant task  of  food  conservation. 

We  would  be  blind  to  hard  facts  if  we  were  not  aware 
that  many  women  throughout  America,  in  the  face  of 
present  high  prices,  regard  the  demand  upon  them 
for  new  economies  as  something  of  an  impertinence. 
“ How  can  you  ask  us  to  economize,”  many  of  them 
will  say,  “ when  already  we  have  not  enough  money 
to  buy  things  necessary  to  support  life?  What  we 
want  to  know  is  not  how  we  can  cut  down  the  amount 
of  food,  but  how  we  can  increase  it.” 

To  this  just  criticism  it  should  be  said  plainly  that  the 
projected  food  administration  will  take  definite  meas- 
ures to  do  away  with  food  speculation  where  it  may  have 
existed,  and  to  stabilize  prices  at  fair  levels.  But 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


7 


new  economies  must  also  be  pointed  out  so  that  the 
whole  people  can  extend  the  purchasing  power  of  a 
dollar. 

At  the  moment  there  is  no  actual  shortage  of  food- 
stuffs in  this  country  if  we  were  only  to  feed  ourselves. 
We  have  more  than  enough  to  feed  ourselves;  a great 
deal  more.  The  terrific  uplift  in  prices  is  due  to  the 
world^s  demand  on  our  food  surplus,  the  actual  size 
of  which  is  smaller  than  ever  before  in  the  history  of 
our  country.  This  has  been,  of  course,  an  incentive  to 
speculation  and  the  advance  has  come  about  because 
of  the  haphazard  way  in  which  buyers  have  bid  against 
each  other  until  they  raised  the  prices  sky-high. 

Under  the  new  food-control  regime  it  is  hoped  that 
prices  can  be  kept  from  going  higher  if  they  are  not 
reduced.  It  would  be  a serious  error  to  suppose  that 
any  decrease  in  prices  means  any  lessening  in  the  need 
for  saving  and  of  economizing.  In  most  European 
countries  the  Governments  are  dictating  daily  food 
rations  for  their  inhabitants.  The  question  of  high 
or  low  prices  must  not  blur  our  vision  of  the  basic 
economic  realities  beneath.  It  is  a matter  of  general 
supply.  Put  simply,  it  means  that  no  matter  how  low 
prices  may  go  nor  how  high  they  may  reach,  the  real 
problem  is,  Can  we  produce  enough  for  ourselves  and 
enough  more  to  make  up  the  deficiency  of  our  allies? 

We  can  if  we  so  desire.  Autocracy  believes  we  can 
not  do  it;  believes  that  as  members  of  a democracy 
we  are  too  selfishly  individualistic  to  desire  it,  too 
weak  to  accomplish  it  even  if  we  did  wish  it.  It  admits 
our  fighting  ability  but  derides  our  power  of  self- 
control  and  self-sacrifice.  Apart  then  from  our  obli- 
gation to  the  allies,  it  is  incumbent  on  America  to 
prove  that  democracy  needs  no  tyrant^s  rod  to  govern 


8 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


its  ways  or  its  appetites.  We  have  already  undertaken 
broad  measures  to  increase  our  production  of  food, 
and  our  intelligence,  our  sense  of  value,  of  the  object 
to  be  accomplished  will  inspire  us  to  decrease  our 
consumption.  We  shall  be  saving  for  victory. 

In  a sense  the  United  States  is  taking  part  in  a great 
cooperative  experiment.  It  has  entered  the  family 
of  nations.  It  has  assumed  tremendous  responsibilities. 
Its  allies  are  dependent  on  it  and  expect  high  perform- 
ance from  it.  Yet  unless  we  practice  among  ourselves 
what  are  no  more  than  a few  minor  deprivations,  west- 
ern civilization  can  not  go  on.  It  may  be  reiterated 
once  more  that  the  necessity  for  these  economics  is 
actually  independent  of  any  political  or  military 
events  which  may  supervene  in  the  immediate  future. 
The  world  crisis  compels  them. 

In  conclusion  let  us  again  define  the  situation  that 
confronts  us,  so  we  may  realize  how  great  is  the  task 
to  which  we  have  pledged  our  honor  and  our  faith. 

Take  the  basic  food  of  the  world — wheat.  It  seems 
probable  that  all  that  we  now  have  plus  what  we  can 
raise  this  year  plus  the  Canadian  crop  will  amount  to 
about  1,000,000,000  bushels.  We  and  Canada  would 
ordinarily  eat  half  of  that.  We  need  to  save  in  addi- 
tion seed  for  next  year  and  a small  safety  margin. 
This  brings  our  joint  total  needs  up  to  700,000,000 
bushels,  and  leaves  300,000,000  for  export.  The 
imperative  needs  of  our  allies  in  addition  to  what  they 
raise  themselves  are  just  twice  that  amount.  The 
problem  then  is  to  meet  the  difference  between  the 
600,000,000  bushels  that  they  need  and  the  300,000,000 
bushels  that  we  have  to  send  them. 

Perhaps  it  will  be  more  comprehensible  if  we  drop 
the  terms  of  bushels  and  express  the  problm  in  units, 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


9 


assuming  that  every  unit  represents  10,000,000  bushels 
of  wheat.  On  that  basis  we  and  Canada  together  have 
100  units  of  wheat.  We  need  70  units  for  ourselves 
and  so  can  spare  30  units.  But  our  allies  need  60 
units  of  wheat.  The  problem  then  is  to  make  the  30 
units  that  we  can  spare  fit  their  need  for  60  units. 

The  only  solution  then  lies  in  sharing  the  inescapable 
privations  and  sacrifices.  We  know  that  we  have 
30  units  to  spare,  and  it  may  be  that  by  sacrifice  and 
economy  we  can  increase  that  to  45  units.  Our  alUes 
need  60  units,  but  it  may  be  that  by  sacrifice  and  econ- 
omy they  can  get  along  on  45.  The  present  prospects 
are  that  in  any  event  5 units  of  wheat  will  be  sunk 
by  the  submarines,  but  that  we  must  try  to  avoid. 
Our  immediate  duty  is  to  save  and  send  over-seas 
450,000,000  bushels  of  wheat,  when  we  have  only 
two-thirds  of  that  amount  to  spare.  If  each  of  us 
should  eat  three  and  one-half  slices  of  bread  for  every 
five  slices  we  each  have  been  accustomed  to,  the  desired 
result  would  be  achieved,  the  victorious  conclusion 
of  the  war  would  be  assured,  and  tens  of  thousands 
of  deaths  from  starvation  would  be  avoided. 

I.  SAVE  THE  WHEAT 
The  Wheat  Supply  of  the  World 

Despite  the  rigid  measure  adopted  to  reduce  con- 
sumption among  the  allies,  they  will  require  to  import 
next  year  larger  amounts  of  cereals  and  meats  than  ever 
before.  The  large  failure  of  the  winter  wheat  harvest 
in  France  and  England,  larger  consumption  by  armies 
in  the  field  and  munition  workers,  the  reduced  produc- 
tivity of  the  land  by  reduction  in  man  power,  the  sink- 


10 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


ing  of  cargoes  by  submarines  all  pile  up  one  increasing 
demand  upon  another,  despite  the  efforts  of  the 
women  in  the  fields.  Moreover,  the  allies  are  more 
isolated  to-day  in  their  sources  of  food  than  ever  before, 
even  during  the  war.  It  requires  three  times  the 
tonnage  and  double  the  danger  to  bring  wheat  from 
Australia  and  India  than  from  the  Atlantic  seaboard, 
and  to-day  these  sources  are  largely  unavailable. 
The  crop  failure  in  the  Argentine  gives  no  hope  from 
that  quarter  until  next  March  or  April,  and  the  allies 
are,  of  course,  isolated  from  the  normal  supply  of 
Russia,  Roumania,  and  Bulgaria.  They  are  thus 
dependent  upon  North  America  for  the  vast  majority 
of  their  food  imports. 

In  a general  way  it  may  be  stated  that  this  country 
normally  produces  a surplus  of  most  commodities,  and 
that  our  problem  is  to  secure  the  effective  and  econom- 
ical distribution  of  these  supplies;  to  induce  as  large 
an  export  surplus  for  the  benefit  of  our  allies  as  we  can; 
to  protect  our  own  requirements;  to  ask  the  whole 
community  to  assist  us  in  building  up  this  surplus 
by  every  effort  of  economy  that  we  can  devise,  and  to 
set  up  such  machinery  as  will  furnish  this  balance 
wheel  on  prices. 

At  best  the  food  of  our  allies  will  be  a privation  loaf, 
and  every  ounce  we  can  add  to  it  is  a contribution  to 
their  strength  and  constancy  in  the  war. 

I think  that  it  is  recognized  by  all  thinking  men  that 
the  world  war  and  the  economic  forces  which  have  been 
set  up  have  disorganized  the  ordinary  balances  and 
checks  on  prices.  For  instance,  the  price  of  wheat 
in  normal  times  is  a factor,  not  only  of  supply  in  the 
United  States,  but  all  the  supplies  in  every  country 
in  the  world. 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


11 


The  United  States  Must  Conserve  Wheat 

1.  By  eliminating  waste  in  the  use  of  all  breads  and 
cereal  products. 

2.  By  eating  more  vegetables  in  place  of  other  foods, 
especially  during  the  summer  months. 

3.  By  substituting  for  wheat  breads  those  breads 
which,  whether  made  at  home  or  by  the  baker,  com- 
bine with  wheat  flour  from  10  to  25  per  cent  of  other 
cereal  products  or  suitable  flours  or  meals,  as  peanut 
flour,  soy-bean  flour,  or  with  potato  or  sweet  potato. 

By  using  other  cereals  for  bread  making — for  in- 
stance, rye,  which  will  make  a yeast-raised  bread, 
and  others,  like  corn,  oatmeal,  kaffir,  and  buckwheat, 
which  can  be  used  without  flour  to  make  “ quick 
breads,”  such  as  corn  pone,  buckwheat  shortcake, 
oat  cake,  and  kaffir  pone. 

1.  Eliminating  Waste  of  Bread 

1.  Through  the  efforts  of  the  food  administration 
many  wholesale  bakers  have  agreed  to  stop  taking 
back  unsold  bread  from  the  retailers.  This  alone 
may  save  5 per  cent  of  the  waste.  We  can  not  afford 
to  sell  stale  bread  for  animal  feed.  The  women  of 
the  country  must  cooperate  with  the  retailers  and  order 
their  bread  24  hours  before  it  is  to  be  delivered. 

2.  The  bakers  are  agreeing  to  put  on  the  market 
fewer  kinds  of  breads,  and  these  in  smaller  sizes,  so 
that  here  again  waste  will  be  lessened. 

3.  All  stale  bread  may  be  utilized  through  combin- 
ing bread  crumbs  in  the  making  of  quick  breads, 
yeast  breads,  scalloped  vegetables,  and  similar  dishes 
and  desserts.  Cutting  the  loaf  on  the  table  as  needed 
also  tends  to  lessen  waste. 


12 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


2.  Conserving  the  Wheat  through  Increasing  the  Proportion  of 
Vegetables  in  the  Diet 

We  as  a people  are  depending  largely  upon  cereals 
for  our  energy  supply.  It  is  easily  possible  to  use  less 
cereal  and  make  larger  demands  for  energy  on  starchy 
vegetables.  Our  average  consumption  of  potatoes 
per  capita  is  about  9 ounces  per  day.  If  we  could  be 
induced  to  take  an  additional  daily  average  of  only 
4 ounces  of  potatoes — that  is,  about  one  good-sized 
potato — our  demand  for  bread  would  be  reduced 
by  about  that  amount  per  individual.  Other  heat- 
giving foods,  such  as  sweet  potatoes,  bananas,  corn, 
peas,  and  beans,  may  be  used  to  reduce  the  demand 
upon  cereals.  On  such  a basis  we  may  advocate  de- 
creased bread  consumption. 

3.  Conserving  One-fourth  Our  Wheat  through  Using 
Liberty  Breads 

For  those  of  us  who,  through  force  of  habit,  demand 
bread  three  times  a day,  what  is  known  as  liberty  bread 
may  be  used  much  more  liberally  in  place  of  the  wheat- 
flour  loaf.  These  liberty  breads  are  made  by  using  the 
entire  wheat  ground  into  flour  or  substituting  other 
cereals  for  part  of  the  wheat  flour.  Corn  is  the  native 
American  cereal  upon  which  we  can  rely  for  bread.  Alone 
or  mixed  with  flour  it  can  be  used  in  very  many  ways 
as  a foodstuff.  It  is  no  new  thing  to  us,  and  in  depend- 
ing upon  it  at  this  time  we  are  only  going  back  to  earlier 
customs  which  have  survived  in  the  South  more  than 
in  the  North.  It  is  sometimes  said  that  too  much 
corn  is  unwholesome,  but  this  is  not  true.  Pellagra, 
the  disease  once  attributed  to  it,  is  not  due  to  corn, 
but  to  another  cause.  For  centuries  barley  and  rye 
have  been  staple  breadstuffs.  It  is  within  recent  years 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


13 


that  barley  has  dropped  out  of  the  diet  of  Americans 
so  largely  as  a breadstuff,  though  retained  in  some 
special  forms,  particularly  in  infant  feeding.  Returned 
to  its  former  place,  it  will  take  the  place  of  thousands 
of  bushels  of  wheat  and  will  produce  a bread  delicious 
in  both  flavor  and  texture.  If  we  are  willing  to  sub- 
stitute for  wheat  flour  from  20  to  35  per  cent  of  other 
cereals,  we  can  easily  free  the  wheat  needed  for  ship- 
ment to  the  allies. 

Food  Value  and  Importance  of  Bread  in  the  Dietary 

In  the  United  States  wheat  bread  is  universally 
used  and  has  become  the  chief  means  of  giving  the 
needed  energy  in  the  diet.  Its  tissue-building  power  is 
below  that  of  most  animal  foods,  dried  peas,  and  beans 
and  is  unsatisfactory  unless  supplemented  by  other 
food  products.  Our  safety  in  its  use  lies  in  the  fact 
that  we  have  always  combined  it  in  the  diet  with  other 
foods — meat,  peas,  beans,  or  animal  soups  rich  in 
gelatin.  We  measure  its  value  primarily  by  the  energy 
which  it  yields  rather  than  by  its  power  to  supply 
protein,  ash,  and  growth-regulating  substances  needed 
to  build  or  repair  body  tissue,  though  even  in  this 
respect  it  is  a valuable  supplement  to  the  materials 
on  which  we  chiefly  rely  as  tissue  builders. 

Comparative  Food  Value  and  Cost  of  Different  Cereal 

Products 

Estimates  of  the  food  values  of  the  following  common 
cereals  are  approximately  equivalent.  Patent  flour, 
corn  meal,  rye,  and  rice  yield  about  1600  calories, 
and  oatmeal  1800  calories,  per  pound. 

Note. — It  may  be  of  local  interest  to  secure  from  retailers  in 
a town  the  price  of  the  various  cereals  in  1913  as  compared  with 
the  present  price. 


14 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Use  Local  Cereal  Products 

A study  should  be  made  of  the  available  local 
supply  for  the  State  or  section  of  the  country,  using 
those  cereals  which  are  grown  and  ground  in  the  imme- 
diate locality.  Corn  meal  and  rolled  oats  are  avail- 
able in  almost  every  section  of  the  United  States.  Bar- 
ley and  rye  are  less  generally  grown  and  sold  in  the  retail 
markets.  Rice  may  be  used  in  so  many  other  ways 
that  its  use  in  bread  making  is  a minor  factor.  There 
promises  to  be  a large  yield  of  buckwheat  which  may 
be  used  in  conserving  our  wheat  supply.  What  we 
need  to  push  is  the  use  of  barley  flour,  buckwheat 
flour,  and  rye  flour.  Kafl&r  and  other  grain  sorghums 
are  to  be  noted  also,  as  they  are  of  especial  value  in  the 
sections  in  which  they  are  grown.  There  is  no  dif- 
ficiilty  in  grinding  and  putting  upon  the  market  any  of 
these  products.  It  may  not  be  wise  at  this  time  to 
advocate  the  selling  of  blended  flours,  as  under  the 
internal-revenue  act  it  makes  the  work  of  the  food 
commission  arduous.  Do  your  own  blending  in  mak- 
ing homemade  products. 

Emergency  Breads 

Selection  for  Demonstration.  Three  from  the  follow- 
ing Hst  of  products; 

Corn-meal  griddle  cakes,  oatmeal  muffins,  and  Indian 
pudding  are  suggested. 

Introductory  Statements.  Make  it  a principle  to 
increase  the  use  of  corn  meal  to  the  maximum.  Pound 
for  pound,  the  energy  value  of  corn  meal  is  equivalent 
to  that  of  wheat  flour.  Every  time  corn  meal  is  used 
where  before  we  used  wheat  products,  we  are  helping 
to  win  the  war. 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


15 


Have  corn-meal  mush  for  breakfast;  add  figs,  dates, 
or  other  fruit,  for  variety;  serve  fried  mush;  use  corn 
meal  in  quick  breads,  yeast  breads,  desserts.  The 
breads  are  light,  palatable,  and  capable  of  frequent  use 
in  the  weekly  dietary.  Likewise,  make  the  maximum 
use  of  oatmeal  or  rolled  oats.  Omit  all  wheat  break- 
fast cereals.  Use  oatmeal  or  rolled  oats,  and  secure 
variety  through  adding  fruit.  Use  rolled  oats  to  con- 
serve one-fourth  the  wheat  in  making  mufl&ns,  rolls, 
and  yeast-raised  bread. 

Proportions  and  Directions 

All  measurements  are  level,  and  flour  is  measured  after  sift- 
ing. Proportions  are  for  Minnesota  flour. 

CORN-MEAL  GRIDDLE  CAKES  OR  WAFFLES,  I 

1 cup  milk  (8  oz.).  2 teaspoons  baking  powder  (1 

J cup  flour  (3  oz.).  oz.). 

f cup  corn  meal  (3f  oz.).  i teaspoon  salt  (|  oz.). 

1 egg  (2  oz.). 

Add  beaten  egg  to  milk  and  add  to  dry  materials,  well  mixed. 


CORN-MEAL  GRIDDLE 

1 cup  sour  milk  (8  oz.). 

I cup  flour  (3  oz.). 

I cup  corn  meal  (3J  oz.). 

I teaspoon  soda  oz.). 


CAKES  OR  WAFFLES,  II 

1 teaspoon  baking  powder 
a oz.). 

i teaspoon  salt  (|  oz.). 

1 egg  (2  oz.). 


CORN-MEAL  MUFFINS,  I 

1 cup  milk  or  water  (8  oz.).  1 to  2 tablespoons  sugar 

1^  cups  flour  (5J  oz.).  (|-1  oz.). 

I cup  corn  meal  (3|  oz.).  1 egg  (2  oz.). 

1 to  2 tablespoons  fat  (|-1  oz.)  4 teaspoons  baking  powder 

(ioz.). 

I teaspoon  salt  (|  oz.). 

Method  I:  Mix  milk,  egg,  and  melted  fat,  and  add  dry 
ingredients,  well  mixed. 


16 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Method  II:  Scald  corn  meal  with  the  hot  milk;  add  egg, 
melted  fat,  and  dry  ingredients. 

CORN-MEAL  MUFFINS,  II 

1 cup  sour  milk  (8  oz.).  1 egg  (2  oz.). 

IJ  cups  flour  (5J  oz.).  i teaspoon  soda  oz.). 

I cup  corn  meal  (3J  oz.).  2 teaspoons  baking  powder 

1 to  2 tablespoons  fat  (J~l  oz.).  (|  oz.). 

1 to  2 tablespoons  sugar  (|--1  oz.).  J teaspoon  salt  (J  oz.). 
Combine  as  in  corn-meal  muffins  I,  method  I. 


INDIAN  PUDDING 

I cup  cornmeal  (3f  oz.).  3 tablespoons  sugar  (1|  oz.), 

1 quart  milk  (32  oz.).  or 

teaspoons  salt  (|  oz.).  J cup  molasses  (4§  oz.). 

Heat  the  milk.  Sift  in  the  corn  meal  as  in  making  mush. 
Add  salt  and  sugar.  Turn  into  buttered  baking  dish,  put  dish 
in  pan  of  water,  and  bake  very  slowly  2J  to  3 hours.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce,  cream,  or  crushed  fruit. 

OATMEAL  MUFFINS,  I 

I cup  milk  (4  oz.).  1|  cups  flour  (6  oz.). 

1 cup  cooked  oatmeal  or  rolled  2 tablespoons  sugar  (1  oz.). 
oats.  i teaspoon  salt  (J  oz.). 

1 egg  (2  oz.).  4 teaspoons  baking  powder 

2 tablespoons  fat  (1  oz.).  (|  oz.). 

Cook  oatmeal,  using  one  part  oatmeal  to  two  parts  water. 
A larger  proportion  of  water  makes  too  soft  and  gummy  muffins. 
Mix  milk,  oatmeal,  egg,  and  melted  fat.  Add  dry  ingredients 
after  sifting  them  together.  Bake  25  to  30  minutes.  This 
makes  10  to  12  muffins. 


OATMEAL  MUFFINS,  II 


1|  cups  milk  (12  oz.). 

2 eggs  (4  oz.). 

2 tablespoons  fat  (1  oz.). 

2 tablespoons  sugar  (1  oz.). 


1 teaspoon  salt  (|  oz.). 

2 cups  rolled  oats  (5§  oz.). 

1 cup  flour  (4  oz.). 

4 teaspoons  baking  powder  (1 
oz.). 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


17 


Pour  milk  over  oats  and  let  soak  one-half  hour.  Add  eggs 
and  melted  fat.  Add  to  dry  ingredients,  which  have  been 
sifted  together.  Bake  25  to  30  minutes.  This  makes  10  to 
12  muffins. 

Corn-meal  and  Oatmeal  Yeast  Breads 

Introductory  Statements.  Corn-meal  yeast  bread, 
satisfactory  in  texture  and  mild  in  flavor,  can  be  made 
using  20  per  cent  by  measure  or  25  per  cent  by  weight 
of  total  cereal  as  corn  meal.  The  flavor  of  white  corn 
meal  is  less  distinctive  and  the  bread  made  from  it 
differs  in  color  from  that  of  the  usual  wheat  loaf  less 
than  that  made  from  the  yellow  meal.  These  breads 
may  be  made  by  combining  dry  corn  meal  with  the 
flour,  but  the  product  is  less  satisfactory  than  that  in 
which  the  meal  is  first  cooked  as  for  corn-meal  mush. 
The  manipulation  is  the  same  as  for  wheat  bread, 
except  that  it  is  a little  more  difficult  to  knead  into  the 
mush  the  full  amount  of  flour  and  the  dough  is  some- 
what softer  and  stickier.  Baking  should  occur  in  a 
slower  oven,  and  should  continue  over  a longer  period — 
at  least  an  hour. 

Oatmeal  yeast  bread  is  coarser  than  wheat  bread 
and  is  not  unlike  graham  bread  in  appearance.  It  has 
a sweet,  nutty  flavor,  much  liked  by  persons  who  care 
for  whole  wheat  or  dark  breads.  Some  care  is  neces- 
sary in  combining  the  rolled  oats  with  the  mixture. 
The  most  satisfactory  method  has  been  found  to  be  that 
of  pouring  the  hot  liquid  over  the  rolled  oats,  allowing 
the  mixture  to  cool  rather  slowly  (about  half  an 
hour).  Longer  soaking  of  the  oats  produces  a some- 
what moister  bread.  The  manipulation  is  the  same  as 
for  wheat  bread.  The  dough  is  a bit  softer.  Baking 
requires  about  45  minutes. 


18 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Proportions  and  Directions 

All  proportions  are  for  one  loaf.  The  amount  of  yeast 
provides  for  a very  short  process — to  4 hours.  One-half  the 
yeast  suggested  will  make  bread  in  5 hours. 

One  cake  of  dry  yeast  used  as  a starter  should  produce  yeast 
for  six  loaves.  In  all  cases  the  amount  of  liquid  should  be^ 
equal  to  that  added  with  the  compressed  yeast  in  the  recipe 
given. 

COHN-MEAL  YEAST  BREAD  (1  LOAF) 

li  cups  milk  and  water,  or  water  f cup  corn  meal  (3|  oz.). 

(10  oz.).  2J  cups  flour  (9J  oz.). 

2 tablespoons  sugar  (1  oz.).  J cake  compressed  yeast  (J  oz.). 

1 tablespoon  fat  (}  oz.).  J cup  warm  water  (2  oz.). 

2 teaspoons  salt  (|  oz.). 

Add  sugar,  fat,  and  salt  to  liquid,  and  bring  to  boiling  point. 
Add  corn  meal  slowly,  stirring  constantly  until  all  is  added. 
Remove  from  fire,  cool  mixture,  and  add  compressed  yeast 
softened  in  J cup  warm  water.  Add  2J  cups  flour  and  knead. 
Let  rise  until  about  double  its  bulk,  knead  again,  and  put  in 
the  pan.  When  light,  bake  in  a moderate  oven  for  at  least 
an  hour. 

In  mixing  the  dough  the  flour  and  corn  meal  are  to  be  used 
as  separate  ingredients,  because  the  corn  meal  must  be  scalded 
or  a grainy  bread  results.  When  the  corn  meal  mixture  is 
removed  from  the  stove,  the  housewife  will  doubt  her  ability 
to  add  the  amount  of  floor  called  for.  The  flour  will  work 
in,  as  required,  but  a stiffer,  stickier  dough  than  that  to  which 
she  is  accustomed  will  result. 


OATMEAL  YEAST  BREAD  (1  LOAF) 


1 cup  milk  and  water,  or  water 
(8  oz.). 

1 teaspoon  salt  (J  oz.). 

1 tablespoon  fat  (J  oz.). 

2 tablespoons  sugar  (1  oz.). 


1 cup  rolled  oats  (2J  oz.). 

2i  cups  wheat  flour  (10  oz.). 

J cake  compressed  yeast  (i  oz.) 
I cup  warm  water  (2  oz.). 


Scald  liquid  and  pour  it  over  the  rolled  oats,  sugar,  salt,  and 
fat.  Let  stand  until  lukewarm  (about  half  an  hour).  Add 
yeast  softened  in  warm  water.  Add  flour  and  knead.  Let 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


19 


rise  until  double  its  bulk.  Knead  again  and  place  in  pan. 
When  light,  bake  in  a moderate  oven  from  45  to  60  minutes. 

Use  Barley,  Rye,  Boiled  Rice,  and  Boiled  Potato  in 

Bread  Making 

Cottonseed  Flour — Demonstration  of  Barley,  Rye,  Rice,  or 
Potato  Flour  Yeast  Breads 

Selection  for  Demonstration.  Two  of  above  breads, 
according  to  local  and  available  products. 

Barley  Yeast  Bread.  Introductory  statements:  Bread 
may  be  made  using  wheat  flour  and  barley  flour  in 
mixtures  containing  from  33^  to  50  per  cent  barley 
flour.  The  bread  containing  one-third  barley  flour 
is  light,  palatable,  and  of  especially  pleasant  flavor. 
A larger  percentage  produces  a heavier,  darker  bread 
of  pronounced  barley  flavor.  The  manipulation  for 
this  bread  is  the  same  as  for  wheat  bread.  The  con- 
ditions and  time  for  baking  are  also  the  same.  The 
loaf  is  smaller. 

Proportions  and  directions : 

BARLEY  YEAST  BREAD 

1 cup  milk  and  water,  or  water 

(8  oz.).  IJ  cups  barley  flour  (4  oz.). 

1 tablespoon  sugar  (§  oz.).  2\  cups  wheat  flour  (9J  oz.). 

1 tablespoon  fat  (§  oz.).  | cake  compressed  yeast  (J  oz.). 

1 teaspoon  salt  (J  oz.). 

Soften  the  yeast  in  part  of  the  liquid.  Combine  ingredients. 
Mix  into  a dough.  Knead  and  let  rise  to  double  original  bulk. 
Knead  again.  Put  in  the  pan,  and  when  again  double  in  bulk 
bake  about  45  minutes. 

Rye  Yeast  Bread.  Introductory  statements:  Com- 
mercial rye  breads  are  made  of  a mixture  of  wheat  and 
rye  flours,  known  in  the  trade  as  50-50.  Rye  flour 


20 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


has  much  less  expansion  than  wheat  flour;  hence  the 
loaves  are  smaller.  The  manipulation  is  the  same 
throughout  as  for  wheat  bread. 

Proportions  and  directions: 


RYE  YEAST  BREAD 


1 cup  milk  and  water,  or  water 


(8  oz.). 

1 tablespoon  fat  (J  oz.). 

2 tablespoons  sugar  (1  oz.). 
1 teaspoon  salt  (J  oz.). 


2J  cups  rye  flour  (7  oz.). 

2J  cups  wheat  flour  (9  oz.). 

} cake  compressed  yeast  (J  oz.) 
2 tablespoons  water  (1  oz.). 


Combine  ingredients.  Mix  into  dough  and  knead.  Let 
rise  until  double  original  bulk.  Knead  again.  When  again 
double  bulk,  bake  about  45  minutes. 

Rice  Yeast  Bread.  Rice  has  many  other  uses,  as  in 
puddings,  etc.,  and  is  much  in  demand  among  the  allies. 
Therefore  its  use  should  not  be  stressed  in  connection 
with  emergency  breads. 

Cooked  rice,  combined  with  wheat  flour  makes 
delicious  muffins  and  yeast  bread.  There  are  many 
ways  of  cooking  the  rice.  The  basic  principles  may 
be  stated  as  follows:  First,  cook  the  rice  so  as  to  con- 
serve all  mineral  matter  and  other  soluble  products. 

Method:  After  the  rice  is  thoroughly  washed  it 
should  be  put  in  a thick  iron  kettle  or  stoneware  baking 
dish,  cold  water  added  so  that  the  water  stands  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch  to  an  inch  clear  above  the  rice. 
A heavy  or  weighted  cover  should  be  used  to  seal  the 
dish.  Cook  slowly  over  direct  heat  or  in  the  oven 
until  all  the  water  has  been  absorbed  and  the  grains 
are  soft  and  steam  escapes  from  the  vessel.  This  is 
the  Japanese  method.  The  second  method,  more 
frequently  used  in  the  United  States,  is  to  itee  a very 
large  amount  of  boiling  water  to  a small  amount  of 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


21 


rice,  the  rice  being  added  slowly  enough  not  to  stop  the 
boiling.  The  water  is  boiled  briskly  20  minutes,  or 
until  the  kernels  are  tender.  Then  it  is  drained  in  a 
colander  or  strainer,  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove, 
or  put  in  a slightly  warm  oven  or  in  a pan  over  hot 
water,  to  dry  off  a bit.  There  results  a fluffy  mass  of 
large,  plump  grains,  each  perfectly  distinct  in  itself, 
instead  of  the  gummy  mush  so  often  served  as  boiled 
rice. 

The  rice  yeast  bread  is  very  white  in  color,  is  moister 
than  wheat  bread,  and  keeps  moist  longer.  It  is 
handled  in  much  the  same  manner  as  wheat  bread. 
The  first  dough,  however,  is  much  stiffer,  and  after  once 
rising  the  light  dough  is  so  soft  that  it  can  not  be 
kneaded  with  the  hands.  It  should  be  well  stirred 
with  a strong  spoon  and  placed  in  the  pans,  looking 
much  like  a stiff  drop  batter.  After  baking,  the  upper 
crust  is  less  smooth  than  that  of  our  familiar  wheat 
flour  loaf. 

Proportions  and  directions: 

These  amounts  make  two  large  or  three  small  loaves  ot  bread. 


RICE  YEAST  BREAD 


I cup  milk  and  water,  or  water 


(4  oz.). 

4 tablespoons  sugar  (2  oz.). 
4 tablespoons  fat  (2  oz.). 

IJ  teaspoons  salt  (f  oz.). 


7 cups  boiled  rice. 

8 cups  flour  (32  oz.). 

J cake  compressed  yeast  (|  oz.). 
I cup  warm  water  (2  oz.). 


Scald  liquid  if  milk  is  used.  Pour  over  fat,  sugar,  and  salt. 
Cool  and  add  yeast,  moistened  in  J cup  warm  water.  Add  rice 
and  flour  and  knead.  After  second  rising  bake  45  minutes. 

Potato  Yeast  Bread.  Introductory  statements:  Boiled 
potatoes,  mashed  and  combined  with  wheat  flour  may 
be  used  in  making  a bread  of  good  flavor  and  texture. 


22 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


The  potato  bread  is  slightly  darker  in  color  than 
patent  flour  bread  and  is  also  somewhat  more  moist. 
It  is  relished  by  persons  who  do  nor  care  for  any  but 
so-called  “ white  bread.”  Two  manipulations  are 
satisfactory.  Either  all  the  flour  may  be  added  in 
the  first  mixture,  making  a dough  which  is  very  stiff 
and  difficult  to  knead  or  a part  of  the  flour  may  be 
reserved  and  added  with  the  second  kneading.  In 
either  case  the  dough  is  soft  at  the  second  handling, 
but  after  baking  it  produces  a satisfactory  loaf. 

Proportions  and  directions: 

The  following  amounts  make  three  loaves  of  bread. 

POTATO  YEAST  BREAD 

5 cup  milk  and  water,  or  water 

(4  oz.).  4 cups  boiled  potatoes. 

4 tablespoons  sugar  (2  oz.).  8 cups  flour  (32  ounces). 

4 tablespoons  fat  (2  oz.).  J cake  compressed  yeast  (J  oz.). 

11  teaspoons  salt  (f  oz.).  J cup  warm  water  (2  oz.). 

II.  SAVE  THE  MEAT 
World  Supply  of  Meats 

The  world’s  available  supply  of  meat  is  not  sufficient 
to  meet  the  needs  of  the  United  States  and  of  our  allies 
unless  we  practice  economy,  particularly  in  the  con- 
sumption of  those  meats  which  are  readily  transported, 
namely,  beef,  mutton,  and  pork. 

Any  attempt  to  give  exact  figures  which  wiU  state 
the  world’s  supply  of  meat  is  hopeless,  but  a few  figures 
may  indicate  the  condition  in  the  United  States 
January  1,  1917.  At  that  time  we  had  63,617,000 
cattle,  67,453,000  swine,  and  48,483,000  sheep.  This 
includes  all  dairy  stock,  which  must  be  saved  to  meet 
the  increasing  demand  for  milk  and  milk  products. 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


23 


The  figures  for  France,  England,  and  Italy  are  all  of 
them  at  least  a year  old,  and  therefore  can  not  be  given 
as  representing  present  conditions.  France  has 
attempted  to  save  her  dairy  cattle.  The  sale  of 
meat  has  been  restricted  by  legislation.  The  horses 
killed  at  the  front  are  shipped  directly  to  Paris  for  sale 
in  the  public  markets.  Even  this  additional  supply 
has  not  met  the  demand,  so  that  the  sale  of  meat  is  not 
only  restricted  in  amount  to  individuals  but  is  also 
restricted  to  certain  days  in  the  week.  England,  be- 
cause of  lack  of  cattle  feed  due  to  the  increased  acreage 
devoted  to  raising  field  crops,  for  human  consumption, 
is  reducing  her  total  livestock  through  increased  slaugh- 
ter for  human  use.  Her  food  regulations,  issued  in 
May  of  this  year,  therefore  show  a definite  increase 
in  the  amount  of  meat  that  may  be  purchased  per 
individual.  This  condition  must  necessarily  be  tem- 
porary, and  England  will  be  again  reduced  to  a very 
restricted  meat  requirement.  France  and  Italy  have 
long  used  meat  economically,  depending  upon  the  use 
of  small  amounts  of  meat  to  make  the  vegetable  prod- 
ucts savory,  either  in  the  form  of  soups  or  stews  or 
pastries. 

General  Habit  of  Meat  Consumption  in  the  United 

States 

When  the  British  commission  was  sent  over  from 
England  in  1909  to  study  the  living  conditions  of  the 
American  workmen  as  contrasted  with  the  conditions  of 
the  English  workmen,  they  published  a voluminous 
report  as  the  result  of  the  study  in  all  sections  of  the 
East,  Middle  West,  and  South.  These  studies  showed 
conclusively  that  the  diet  of  the  American  people  was 


24 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


very  much  better  than  the  diet  of  the  English  workmen, 
but  the  striking  point  was  our  lavish  use  of  our  meat 
supply.  This,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  the  lessening 
of  the  free  pasture  land  and  the  increased  cost  of  feed 
grains  had  brought  about  a condition  of  lessened 
meat  production  relative  to  the  population  of  the 
country.  Careful  summaries  show  that  the  present 
daily  consumption  of  beef  is  3^  ounces  per  capita, 
and  of  pork  4^^  ounces  per  capita.^  The  suggestion 
that  is  being  made  is  that  we  as  a people  reduce 
this  total  consumption  1 ounce  per  day,  and  if 
possible  an  additional  ounce  be  replaced  by  the  use 
of  all  kinds  of  fish,  preferably  a local  supply;  by 
increased  use  of  whole  cream  cheese  and  a local  use  of 
poultry  and  eggs,  where  the  prices  are  not  prohibitive. 
If  the  suggestion  of  doubling  the  quantity  of  vegetables 
used  is  followed,  the  diet  will  be  improved  in  variety 
without  lowering  its  nutritive  value. 

Need  of  Tissue  Building  in  the  Diet 

The  need  of  tissue-building  material  in  the  diet  is 
so  well  understood  that  the  only  discussion  necessary 
here  is  in  connection  with  the  amount  of  protein  and 
the  character  of  the  protein  in  the  foods  available  for 
man.  All  proteins  are  made  up  of  complex  nitrogen 
products,  which  are  often  called  “ building  stones.” 

Some  proteins  contain  these  “ building  stones  ” in 
proper  proportion  for  the  building  of  new  tissue. 
Others  lack  some  of  the  essential  “ building  stones.” 
The  foods  containing  the  first  type  are  called  com- 
plete or  efficient  tissue-building  foods.  The  others 
are  known  as  incomplete  or  inefficient  tissue-building 
foods.  The  value  of  meats  in  the  diet  lies  in  the  fact 

i This  includes  refuse  or  meat  as  purchased. 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


25 


that  they  belong  to  the  complete  type  of  protein  foods, 
and  therefore  when  used  liberally  in  the  diet  the  neces- 
sity for  intelligent  choice  is  eliminated.  The  list 
of  perfect  or  efficient  proteins  includes  beef,  veal, 
mutton,  lamb,  pork,  poultry,  game,  fish,  cheese, 
milk,  and  eggs.  The  inefficient  proteins,  those  which 
need  supplementing  with  more  or  less  from  those  of  the 
first  group  are  soy  bean,  peanuts,  navy  beans,  wax 
beans,  kidney  beans,  lima  beans,  dried  peas,  lentils, 
nuts,  corn,  wheat,  oats^  barley,  rye,  buckwheat, 
gelatin. 

For  the  young  child,  the  youth  and  anyone  recover- 
ing from  a wasting  disease  there  must  be  combinations 
of  protein  foods  which  will  give  the  right  combination 
of  building  stones. As  has  been  stated,  for  the 
young  child  milk  stands  first  on  the  list.  For  the  adult 
the  need  for  large  amounts  of  the  more  nearly  perfect 
proteins  is  not  apparent.  Their  diet  can  be  more 
easily  restricted  to  a limited  use  of  the  first  list  and  a 
liberal  use  of  the  second. 

Adequate  Combinations  of  Protein  Foods 

In  any  discussion  of  exchange  values  in  this  class  of 
foods  the  relative  digestibility  of  the  proteins  is  an 
important  factor.  The  proteins  in  the  first  list  are, 
as  a rule,  quite  completely  and  easily  digested.  The 
proteins  of  the  second  group  are  not  so  easily  or  com- 
pletely digested.  They  contain  a great  deal  of  what  is 
called  roughage,’’  which  while  it  has  the  advantage 
of  aiding  in  the  quicker  elimination  of  waste  material 
from  the  alimentary  canal,  has  the  disadvantage  of  not 
permitting  the  protein  to  be  so  completely  absorbed. 
In  some  cases  bacterial  action  in  the  alimentary  canal 
may  be  increased  with  this  type  of  food,  hence  in- 


26 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


dividual  peculiarities  may  prevent  their  more  liberal 
use.  As  a general  rule,  the  proper  combinations  of 
these  foods  may  be  given  as  follows: 

Cereals  do  not  help  each  other  out  because  their 
“ building  stones  ” do  not  supplement  each  other. 

Legumes  (peas,  peanuts,  and  beans)  do  not  help 
each  other  for  the  very  same  reason. 

Most  legumes,  combined  with  cereals,  make  a more 
nearly  efficient  protein  combination. 

Gelatin  supplements  the  lack  of  some  of  the  “ build- 
ing stones  ” in  most  of  the  cereals,  but  it  does  not  help 
out  the  lack  in  the  legumes. 

The  combination  of  any  of  these  with  milk  or  cheese 
or  meat  or  eggs  is  efficient. 

Safe  Standard  to  Follow 

The  diet  of  the  American  people  should  be  so  selected 
that  the  average  for  men,  women,  and  children  is  at 
least  70  grams  (about  2^  ounces)  of  protein  a day. 
One-fourth  to  one-third  of  this  may  come  from  cereal 
foods,  one-seventh  may  come  from  milk  and  its  prod- 
ucts, one-seventh  to  two-sevenths  from  animal  pro- 
teins, the  remainder  to  be  secured  from  a wise  com- 
bination of  vegetables  and  fruit.  The  detail  of  this 
is  a study  by  itself. 

Working  Program 

Because  of  the  difficulty  of  securing  adequate  trans- 
portation facilities,  it  is  wise  to  use  very  largely  the 
local  supply  of  animal  foods,  discouraging  as  much  as 
possible  the  killing  of  young  animals,  as  veal  and  lamb. 
Poultry  and  eggs,  game  in  season,  and  all  varieties  of 
fish  should  be  used,  but  next  to  maintaining  our  regular 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  "CONSERVATION 


27 


bread  supply,  the  most  important  factor  is  to  increase 
the  use  of  milk  in  so  far  as  our  supply  will  admit. 
The  present  supply  seems  to  indicate  per  capita  allow- 
ance of  about  i quart  a day.  In  case  of  lack  of  ade- 
quate amount  for  the  family,  it  is  wiser  to  limit  the 
use  of  the  milk  to  direct  consumption  by  children  and 
to  the  use  in  the  preparation  of  foods  for  the  table. 
The  utilization  of  the  protein  from  the  cereals  in  the 
feeding  of  the  dairy  cow  shows  that  we  recover  more 
of  the  proteins  in  milk  than  we  would  if  it  were  used  to 
produce  muscle. 

1.  For  example,  we  recover  from  35  to  50  per  cent 
of  the  protein  in  the  feed  when  it  comes  to  us  in  the 
form  of  milk,  but  only  from  10  to  20  per  cent  in  the 
form  of  beef  proteins.  In  other  words,  we  get  300  per 
cent  more  return  on  the  investment  through  the  con- 
sumption of  milk.  For  this  reason  every  ounce  of  the 
available  milk  supply  should  be  used  as  food,  either 
in  the  form  of  milk  itself,  whole  or  skim,  or  in  the  form 
of  whole-milk  cheese  or  cottage  cheese  and  butter. 

2.  Vegetable  food,,  as  peas,  beans,  peanuts,  lentils, 
cereals,  as  oats,  rye,  barley,  and  any  local  supply  of 
nuts  may  be  used  to  supplement  a milk,  fish,  or  egg 
diet. 

3.  No  meat  should  be  wasted.  All  left-over  meats 
may  be  used  as  a source  of  flavor  as  follows:  In  vege- 
table soups,  stews,  goulashes,  gravies,  pies,  creamed 
meats,  cereal  pilafs,  chowders,  casserole  dishes,  and 
with  green  vegetables. 

4.  Fresh  fish  may  be  used  in  the  same  way  that  meats 
are  used,  and  with  proper  choice  of  flavoring  material, 
are  often  preferred  to  the  meat  dishes. 

5.  Cheese  may  be  used  as  a supplement  to  all  of  the 
group  of  protein  foods  that  are  listed  under  incom- 


28 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


plete  proteins.  The  soup  kitchens  of  the  Germans 
may  teach  us  many  lessons  on  how  to  extend  the  use 
of  meat  as  flavor. 

III.  SAVE  THE  SUGAR 

In  common  parlance  sugar  refers  to  the  “ cane  sugar  ” 
obtained  from  sugar  cane  or  beet  root,  but  the  chemist 
distinguishes  between  various  kinds.  The  latter  vary 
more  in  flavor  than  in  final  digestibility  and  food 
value.  The  use  of  sugar  (present  in  fruits,  vegetables, 
etc.)  in  the  United  States  has  been  on  an  average 
practically  4 ounces  per  day  per  capita.  While  not 
all  of  us  use  4 ounces  of  sugar  daily,  many  of  us  will  be 
found  to  use  that  amount  and  even  more  if  we  include 
all  forms  of  sweets,  i.e.,  not  only  the  sugar  eaten  on 
fruits  and  cereals,  or  in  tea,  coffee,  etc.,  but  also  that 
used  in  general  cooking,  and  in  cakes,  desserts,  pre- 
serves, candies,  “ soft  drinks,”  etc.  The  fact  that 
there  is  now  a limited  supply  to  meet  all  demands  for 
' sugar  will  require  us  to  reduce  our  consumption. 
From  present  indications  it  would  seem  that  if  we 
could  reduce  it  to  an  average  of  3 ounces  daily  we  would 
meet  the  situation.  The  experience  in  Europe  seems 
to  indicate  that  the  use  of  sugar  is  largely  for  the  psy- 
chological effect  of  the  sweet  flavor,  which  helps  make 
palatable  the  less  highly  flavored  foods  such  as  cereals. 
It  has  been  used  in  the  armies  in  the  form  of  jams. 
Ian  Hay  tells  some  amusing  stories  of  English  “ Tom- 
mies ” who  would  face  any  danger  cheerfully,  but 
broke  into  open  rebellion  when  deprived  of  their 
strawberry  marmalade. 

Americans  have  come  to  consider  a generous  amount 
of  sugar  as  a necessity  of  life,  but  on  analysis  we  find 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


29 


that  its  use  can  be  defended  only  on  the  psychological 
ground  of  the  palatability  its  flavor  lends  to  the  diet, 
and  (under  special  conditions  of  muscular  exertion)  on 
the  ground  that  its  energy  becomes  available  to  the 
body  more  rapidly  than  that  of  the  other  nutrients. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  excessive  use  of  sugar  is  not 
only  economically  extravagant  but  may  cause  digestive 
disturbances.  The  amount  which  one  can  eat  with 
impunity  depends  on  the  muscular  activity,  the  amount 
of  other  foods  in  the  diet,  and,  in  case  large  quantities 
of  sugar  are  consumed,  on  the  tolerance  of  the  individ- 
ual for  it.  Persons  of  great  muscular  activity,  like 
athletes,  soldiers  on  exhausting  marches,  or  the  never- 
quiet  schoolboy,  require  more  energy-yielding  food  than 
less  active  persons  of  the  same  size  and  weight,  and  their 
craving  for  sweets  may  be  legitimate.  Under-nourished 
children  of  the  city  poor,  who  spend  their  pennies  for 
candies,  may  obtain  in  this  way  a desirable  supplement 
to  their  inadequate  meals.  But  where  the  meals  are 
adequate  or  even  excessive,  eating  sweets  in  addition 
overtaxes  the  digestive  organs,  tends  to  corpulency, 
and  spoils  the  appetite  for  less  highly  flavored  but 
equally  nutritious  food.  The  latter  consideration  is 
of  especial  importance  with  children,  whose  appetite 
for  sweets  is  much  stronger  than  that  of  adults  and  than 
their  own  appetite  for  the  more  essential  tissue-build- 
ing foods. 

Working  Program 

As  a working  program  on  reducing  the  present  use 
of  sugar  the  following  may  be  recommended: 

1.  Train  the  family  to  use  little  or  no  sugar  on  the 
breakfast  cereals  or  replace  by  fruits  eaten  with  the 
cereal  or  dried  fruits,  raisins,  dates,  etc.,  cooked  with 


30 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


it.  Most  palates  crave  less  sugar  on  these  foods  if  the 
latter  are  well  cooked  and  carefully  salted. 

2.  Reduce  the  use  of  soft  drinks,  lemonade,  etc.,  in 
the  making  of  which  sugar  is  used  very  liberally. 

3.  In  preparing  the  food  for  the  family  give  prefer- 
ence to  recipes  which  call  for  less  sugar,  and  if  possible 
omit  it  from  yeast  bread;  reduce  the  use  of  candies 
and  cakes,  especially  kinds  in  which  large  quantities 
of  sugar  are  used.  Especially  discourage  the  eating 
of  candy  between  abundant  meals. 

4.  Use  sirups,  as  corn  sirup,  apple  sirup,  and  other 
fruit  sirups,  molasses  and  sorghum  sirups,  and  honey 
wherever  it  is  possible  to  utilize  these  products  in  the 
place  of  ordinary  sugar.  Remember  that  a good 
sirup  can  be  made  on  the  farm  from  apple  “ culls  ” 
and  used  as  a table  sirup  or  in  cooking. 

5.  Use  more  fruits,  both  fresh  and  dried,  to  give 
the  desired  sweet  flavor  to  the  diet. 

IV.  SAVE  THE  FAT 

It  has  been  estimated  that  on  the  average  over  3| 
ounces  (about  96  grams)  of  fat  purchased  as  such— 
that  is,  butter  and  other  table  fats,  cooking  fats  and 
cooking  and  table  oils — are  included  in  the  food  pro- 
vided for  each  person  in  the  United  States.  This  could 
be  cut  down  to  a little  over  2 ounces  (60  grams)  without 
danger  to  health,  provided  the  kinds  of  fat  used  were 
carefully  chosen  and  all  the  fat  from  meat  trimmings 
and  meat  cookery  were  used  to  advantage.  At  present 
fats  are  chosen  more  for  pleasant  flavor  and  culinary 
convenience  than  with  reference  to  their  distinctive 
nutritive  value.  The  waste  from  this  class  of  foods  is 
large.  City  garbage  has  been  found  to  yield  from 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


31 


35  to  40  pounds  of  fat  per  ton,  all  coming  from  homes, 
hotels,  and  restaurants. 

If  fat  were  needed  only  for  the  production  of  energy 
in  the  body,  it  would  be  a relatively  simple  matter  to 
cut  down  on  our  use  of  lard,  butter,  table  oils,  and  other 
separated  fats,  and  depend  more  on  cereals,  potatoes, 
and  other  starchy  foods.  Recent  discoveries  regarding 
the  substances  which  regulate  the  growth  and  repair 
of  body  tissue,  however,  have  shown  that  such  a course 
would  not  be  safe.  Associated  with  fat  in  certain  food 
materials,  especially  in  the  fat  of  milk  and  eggs,  such 
meat  fats  as  suet,  and  the  small  amounts  of  fat  found  * 
in  the  green  leaves  of  potherbs  and  salad  plants  are 
minute  quantities  of  recently  discovered  and  as  yet 
unnamed  substances  most  important  in  nutrition. 
These  are  sometimes  referred  to  as  growth  deter- 
minants.^' When  these  are  lacking,  even  in  an  other- 
wise adequate  diet,  growth  of  new  tissue  and  repair 
of  old  does  not  take  place  as  it  normally  should.  We  do 
not  yet  know  exactly  how  much  of  these  substances  is 
found  in  different  kinds  of  fats,  or  how  much  is  needed 
by  children  or  adults,  but  it  is  now  impossible  to  con- 
sider the  question  of  fat  in  the  diet  without  consider- 
ing them. 

Conditions  in  the  warring  nations  of  Europe  where 
the  fat  ration  has  been  cut  to  the  lowest  limit  have 
shown  that  such  a practice  hinders  the  normal  growth 
of  children,  the  maintenance  of  health  in  adults,  and  the 
repair  of  body  tissue  after  wounds. 

The  list  of  foods  in  which  these  growth  deter- 
minants " are  chiefly  found  includes  egg  yolk,  butter, 
cream,  rich  milk,  cream  cheese,  and  the  leaves  of  most 
of  the  growing  plants  that  are  used  for  greens  or  salad. 
Lower  in  the  list  will  come  the  table  butter  substitutes 


32 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


— suet,  beef  drippings,  and  possibly  goose  and  chicken 
fats.  It  is  possible  that  the  other  animal  fats  and  most, 
if  not  all,  of  the  vegetable  oils  lack  this  “ growth 
determinant.” 

V.  METHODS  OF  ELIMINATING  WASTE 

(a)  Eliminate  waste  by  utilizing  all  fat  left  from 
meats.  This  is  probably  the  most  important  house- 
hold method  of  reducing  the  consumption  of  fat.  A 
great  many  women  do  not  realize  that  the  trimmings 
from  beef,  pork,  mutton,  and  fowl  can  be  rendered  and 
used  in  cookery  instead  of  fats  specially  purchased  for 
that  purpose.  Directions  for  preparing  and  using 
them  will  be  found  in  any  good  cookbook. 

In  some  households  the  amount  of  fats  which  accu- 
mulates from  the  meats  served  is  larger  than  can  be  used 
for  cooking;  in  such  cases  it  should  be  used  for  making 
soap,  or  it  should  be  given  away  or  sold  to  some  one 
who  will  use  it.  Better  still,  its  accumulation  should 
be  avoided  by  choosing  and  using  meats  more  carefully. 

If  the  fat  from  meat  trimmings  or  tried  out  in  cookery 
is  available,  use  it  with  rational  economy  when  fat  must 
be  purchased  for  cookery. 

As  far  as  possible  avoid  cooking  by  means  of  frying 
and  sauteing.  If  these  methods  are  followed,  use 
rendered  fats  such  as  those  referred  to,  not  fats  specially 
purchased  for  the  purpose. 

(b)  Households  in  which  cream  is  now  freely  used 
may  with  care  reduce  the  amount  consumed  without 
greatly  lessening  attractiveness  of  the  meals.  “ Top 
milk  ” may  be  used  in  tea  and  coffee  and  on  cereals, 
baked  apples,  etc.  Unless  the  meal  is  otherwise  lack- 
ing in  fat,  cream  desserts  should  be  sparingly  used. 


LESSONS  ON  FOOD  CONSERVATION 


33 


Substituting  water  ices  made  with  fresh  fruits  for  ice 
cream  not  only  saves  fat  but  utilizes  “ perishables.” 

(c)  We  may  save  table  butter  by  serving  smaller 
portions;  not  because  we  should  attempt  to  decrease 
materially  the  use  of  butter  on  the  table,  but  because 
so  often  the  portion  served  is  larger  than  is  needed  or 
even  desired.  Although  that  which  is  left  on  the  butter 
plates  might  be  utihzed  for  cooking,  cheaper  fats  should 
be  used  for  that  purpose. 

The  recommendation  of  the  food  administration  is 
to  eliminate  the  use  of  butter  in  cookery  in  order  to 
make  the  supply  go  around  so  that  we  may  have 
butter  for  table  use.  While  all  of  us  may  not  agree 
to  this,  still  the  more  nearly  we  fulfill  that  request 
the  more  nearly  will  we  meet  the  vital  needs  of  our 
own  people  and  the  Army  at  the  front. 

(d)  Children  should  be  trained  and  adults  encour- 
aged to  eat  all  the  fat  served  with  meat.  This  prevents 
waste  and  lessons  the  amount  of  separated  fat  needed 
in  the  daily  food. 

In  all  of  these  recommendations  we  must  remember 
the  psychology  of  the  individual  is  the  most  potent 
factor  with  which  we  have  to  deal.  If  the  issue  is 
pushed  too  hard  or  without  great  tact,  we  may  defeat 
our  own  purpose  to  save  a small  portion  of  our  food 
supply  for  those  who  are  battling  to  maintain  the  object 
for  which  our  nation  was  created — liberty  and  democ- 
racy. 


U.  S.  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FARMERS’  BULLETIN  NO.  808 


WHAT  THE  BODY  NEEDS^ 


By 

CAROLINE  L.  HUNT  and  HELEN  W.  ATWATER 

Scientific  Assistants,  Office  of  Home  Economics 


Contribution  from  the  States  Relations  Service 
A.  C.  TRUE,  Director 


INTRODUCTION 

How  can  the  housekeeper  tell  whether  or  not  she  is 
providing  the  food  which  her  family  needs  and  is  get- 
ting the  best  possible  returns  for  the  money  she  spends? 
Unfortunately,  the  price  she  pays  for  food  is  no  test 
of  the  nourishment  it  yields  to  the  body.  Tomatoes 
at  5 or  10  cents  apiece  in  winter  do  not  build  body 
tissues  nor  furnish  fuel  for  the  body  engine  any  better 
than  those  at  5 cents  a quart  in  summer,  nor  does  fancy 
capon  at  40  cents  a pound  nourish  the  healthy  body 

^Prepared  under  the  direction  of  C.  F.  Langworthy,  Chief,  Office  of  Home 
Economics. 

Note. — This  bulletin  gives  a simple  method  of  selecting  and  combining  food 
materials  to  provide  an  adequate,  attractive,  and  economical  diet. 

34 


WHAT  THE  BODY  NEEDS 


35 


more  generously  than  fowl  at  half  the  price.  Appetite 
is  not  always  a safe  guide.  A child^s  appetite  might 
be  satisfied  with  a diet  of  nothing  but  sugar,  but  this 
certainly  would  not  be  good  for  him.  Neither  can 
hunger  and  its  satisfaction  always  be  relied  on.  A 
bulky  diet  of  potatoes  or  bananas  alone  would  soon 
make  a person  feel  that  he  had  eaten  enough,  but  would 
not  furnish  all  that  the  body  needs. 

Evidently  what  a person  who  plans  meals  ought  to 
know  is  what  things  the  body  needs  in  its  food  and  how 
these  needs  can  be  filled  by  the  ordinary  food  materials. 
This  paper  is  intended  to  give  such  information  in  a 
simple  way.  It  should  make  plain  that  different 
kinds  or  classes  of  foods  serve  different  uses  in  the  body 
and  should  help  the  housekeeper  to  choose  those  which 
will  serve  all  these  uses  without  waste. 

The  Day’s  Food 

A man  who  does  fairly  hard  muscular  work  would  be 
likely  to  get  the  food  which  his  body  needs  if  supplied 
daily  with  such  a combination  of  foods  as  the  following: 

IJ  pounds  of  bread,  having  about  the  same  food  value  as  1 
pound  of  such  cereal  preparations  as  wheat  or  rye  flour, 
oatmeal,  corn  meal,  rice,  etc. 

2 ounces,  or  i cup,  of  butter,  oil,  meat  drippings,  or  other  fat. 

2 ounces,  or  I cup,  of  sugar;  or  i cup  of  honey,  or  sirup,  or  an 
equivalent  amount  of  other  sweet. 

pounds  of  food  from  the  following:  Fresh  fruits  and  green 
or  root  vegetables. 

12  ounces  of  food  from  a class  which  may  be  called  meats  and 
meat  substitutes  that  is,  moderately  fat  meats,  poultry, 
fish,  eggs,  cheese,  dried  legumes  (beans,  peas,  lentils,  cow- 
peas,  and  peanuts).  Milk  also  belongs  among  these  foods, 
but  because  of  the  large  amount  of  water  it  contains  half 
a glass,  or  4 ounces,  of  it  would  be  required  to  equal  an 
ounce  of  any  one  of  the  others. 


36 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


A man  who  works  hard  out  of  doors  all  day  probably 
would  need  more  food  than  this,  and  one  who  sits  all 
day  at  his  desk  would  need  less.  The  amounts  given 
are  suitable  for  a man  who,  like  a salesman  in  a store, 
walks  about  more  or  less  and  does  more  or  less  of  such 
work  as  lifting, 

A family  consisting  of  a man  and  a woman  who  do 
moderately  hard  muscular  work  and  three  children — 
say,  between  3 and  12  years  of  age — would  get  the  food 
they  require  if  supplied  daily  with: 

4i  pounds  of  bread,  having  the  same  food  value  as  3 pounds  of 
wheat  or  rye  flour,  oatmeal,  corn  meal  or  hominy,  or  rice; 
or  about  pounds  of  cereals  and  5 or  6 medium-sized  pota- 
toes. 

J cup  of  fat  (butter  or  butter  with  oil,  beef  drippings,  or  other 
fat) — a weekly  allowance  of  to  3 pounds. 

A little  more  than  1 cup  of  sugar,  or  a weekly  allowance  of  4 
pounds;  or  an  equivalent  amount  of  some  other  sweet. 

4 pounds  in  all  of  fresh  fruits  and  fresh  or  root  vegetables. 

One  of  the  two  following,  the  choice  depending  on  the  age  of 
the  children : 

3 quarts  of  milk  and  1 pound  of  other  foods  taken  from  the  meat 
and  meat-substitute  group. 

2 quarts  of  milk  and  pounds  of  other  foods  taken  from  the 
meat  and  meat-substitute  group. 

This  rather  rough  calculation  is  based  on  the  assump- 
tion that  cereals  contain,  on  the  average,  about  12 
per  cent  protein,  1 per  cent  fat,  and  7.5  per  cent  carbo- 
hydrates, and  that  1 pound  of  bread  contains  about 
§ of  a pound  of  cereal;  that  butter,  oil,  lard,  and 
other  fatty  foods  average  90  per  cent  fat;  that  fresh 
fruits  and  fresh  and  root  vegetables  average  about 
2 per  cent  protein  and  10  per  cent  carbohydrates,  with 
negligible  quantities  of  fat;  and  that  meats,  fish, 
eggs,  cheese,  etc.,  as  purchased,  may  be  considered  to 
average  about  14  per  cent  each  of  protein  and  fat. 


WHAT  THE  BODY  NEEDS 


37 


The  estimate  also  assumes  that  all  the  fat  obtained 
with  the  meats,  etc.,  is  utilized,  being  either  eaten 
with  the  meat  or  saved  for  use  in  cookery.  Under  these 
conditions  the  fuel  value  of  the  diet  would  be  about 
10,000  calories  per  family  per  day,  or  the  equivalent 
amount  of  3,000  calories  per  man  per  day;  the  protein 
value  would  be  about  330  grams  per  family,  or  100 
grams  per  man  per  day. 

The  cereals  in  such  a ration  would  include  Ij  pounds 
of  bread,  one  ordinary-sized  portion  of  rolled  oats 
(one-fourth  pound  in  all),  and  one  of  rice  for  each  per- 
son (one-half  pound  in  all),  and  a pound  of  flour  for 
use  in  cooking.  The  meat  and  meat-substitute  group 
would  include  2 quarts  of  milk,  1 pound  of  beef,  and  two 
eggs. 

In  such  combinations  of  food  materials  bread  and 
other  preparations  of  cereals  are  used  as  freely  as 
they  can  be  without  making  the  ration  one  sided  or 
unattractive.  Such  cereal  foods  form  a very  whole- 
some and  economical  basis  for  the  diet,  whether  the 
cereal  is  used  as  a breakfast  dish,  as  flour  or  meal  in 
bread  and  cakes,  or  in  other  ways.  A diet  equally 
nourishing  and  wholesome  might  be  planned  with  less 
cereal,  but  this  would  make  it  necessary  to  increase 
the  amount  of  the  more  costly  foods,  such  as  meat, 
fruits,  vegetables,  and  sweets.  When  cereals  are  used 
as  largely  as  in  the  diet  just  described  it  is  most  im- 
portant that  they  be  made  as  attractive  as  possible. 
This  means  good  bread,  well-cooked  and  carefully 
salted  breakfast  cereals,  and  inexpensive  but  well-made 
and  seasoned  cakes  and  puddings.  Eice,  macaroni, 
and  hominy  can  often  be  made  more  appetizing  and 
nutritious  by  combining  with  them  small  amounts 
of  materials  which  are  not  so  cheap  and  have  more 


38 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


distinctive  flavors.  Among  these  are  meat  and  cheese, 
and  onion,  tomato,  and  other  seasoning  vegetables. 
Examples  of  such  combinations  are  rice  and  meat, 
meat  pie,  or  meat  with  dumplings;  macaroni  and 
cheese;  tomatoes  cooked  with  bread  crumbs  or  rice; 
and  cereal  and  fruit  puddings,  or  cereal  and  milk 
puddings. 

The  following  meals  are  given,  not  because  they  are 
recommended  above  many  others  that  might  be  used, 
but  simply  to  show  that  such  foods  can  be  combined 
into  dishes  such  as  are  commonly  used  in  American 
homes. 

SAMPLE  MEALS  FOR  A FAMILY 
(Man,  woman,  and  three  small  children) 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit,  IJ  pounds  of  fresh  fruit  (equivalent  to  3 medium-sized 
oranges,  5 small  apples,  or  a quart-box  of  strawberries), 
or  3 or  4 ounces  of  dried  fruits  (equivalent  to  10  or  12  dates 
or  4 or  5 figs). 

Cereal  breakfast  food,  4 ounces  before  being  cooked,  or  about 
1|  pints  after  it  is  cooked.  The  equivalent  in  food  value  in 
puffed  or  flaked,  ready-to-eat  cereals  would  be  5 or  6 cups. 
Milk  on  cereal,  J cup  for  each  person. 

Sugar  on  fruit,  on  cereal,  or  in  coffee,  2|  level  tablespoons  or 
IJ  ounces. 

Bread,  8 slices,  or  8 ounces. 

Butter,  li  ounces,  or  2J  cubic  inches. 

An  egg  or  2 ounces  of  meat,  fish,  or  poultry  for  each  older  person 
and  a glass  of  milk  for  each  young  child. 

DINNER 

Meat,  or  fish,  J pound  per  grown  person;  or,  for  each  child, 
an  egg  or  a glass  of  milk. 

Potatoes  (5  medium  sized),  IJ  pounds. 

Another  vegetable  (turnips,  spinach,  corn,  cauliflower,  or  other), 
1 pound. 


WHAT  THE  BODY  NEEDS 


39 


Bread,  8 slices,  or  8 ounces. 

Butter,  li-  ounces,  or  cubic  inches. 

Steamed  apple  (or  other  fruit)  pudding.  (Ingredients:  Two 
cups  flour,  2 tablespoons  butter,  f cup  milk,  4 apples,  1 
tablespoon  sugar.) 

Sauce.  (Ingredients:  One-half  cup  sugar,  1|  tablespoons  flour, 
2 teaspoons  butter,  | cup  water,  flavoring.) 

SUPPER 

A gravy  made  out  of  1 pint  of  skim  milk,  J cup  flour,  2 level 
teaspoons  butter,  and  4 ounces  salt  or  smoked  fish  (just 
enough  for  flavor).  To  this  can  be  added  the  egg  yolk 
left  from  the  frosting  of  the  cake.  (See  below.) 

Rice,  8 ounces,  or  1 cup,  measured  before  being  cooked. 

Bread,  8 slices,  or  8 ounces. 

Butter,  IJ  ounces,  or  2^  cubic  inches. 

One-half  of  a cake.  (Ingredients  for  whole  cake:  One-fourth 
cup  butter,  i cup  sugar,  1 egg,  J cup  milk,  IJ  cups  flour, 
teaspoons  baking  powder.) 

Frosting  made  with  1 egg  white  and  | cup  sugar. 

What  the  Day’s  Food  Should  Provide 

The  above  meals  would  supply  the  following  sub- 
stances in  about  the  right  proportions  to  keep  the  family 
in  healthful  condition  and  to  make  the  food  taste 
good,  providing  they  were  well  prepared. 

A.  Mineral  substances  of  great  variety  (lime  salts, 
compounds  of  phosphorus,  iron,  and  others). — These 
are  used  by  the  body  for  building  material  and  are  found 
in  all  parts  of  it.  They  also  produce  substances  within 
the  body  tissues  which  tend  to  offset  acid  substances 
produced  in  the  tissues  in  the  course  of  digestion  of 
meats  and  cereals  and  serve  many  other  important 
uses.  Without  fruits  and  vegetables  the  meals  would 
be  likely  to  lack  certain  mineral  substances.  With- 
out milk  they  would  be  lacking  in  a mineral  substance 
specially  needed  by  children;  that  is,  lime. 


40  ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 

B.  Protein. — Protein  serves  as  fuel  for  the  body  and 
also  provides  a certain  important  element,  nitrogen, 
which  is  needed  in  the  case  of  children  for  growth  and 
in  the  case  of  both  children  and  grown  people  to  keep 
the  body  in  repair.  Without  the  meat  or  meat  sub- 
stitutes (including  milk)  the  meals  would  be  lacking 
in  this  body-building  material. 

C.  Starch. — This  is  one  of  the  chief  fuels  of  the  body 
and  is  supplied  mainly  by  the  cereal  foods. 

D.  Sugar. — This  serves  as  fuel  for  the  body  and  to 
flavor  the  food.  It  is  found  in  milk,  fresh  fruits  and 
many  other  materials  but  unless  small  amounts  of  very 
sweet  materials — sugar  itself,  sirup,  or  honey — are 
used,  the  diet  is  likely  to  be  lacking  in  it. 

E.  Fat. — This  serves  as  body  fuel  and  also  improves 
the  flavor  and  texture  of  the  food.  It  is  present  in 
meats,  nuts,  and  many  other  foods,  but  unless  small 
amounts  of  specially  fat  materials,  like  butter,  oil,  or 
cream,  are  used,  the  meals  are  likely  to  be  lacking  in 
it.  Moreover,  dishes  cooked  without  a certain  amount 
of  fat  and  meals  served  without  butter  or  some 
substitute  seem,  to  most  persons,  dry  and  unpala- 
table. 

F.  Cellulose. — This  is  the  material  which  makes  up 
the  framework  of  plants.  It  gives  bulk  to  the  diet 
and  may  tend  to  prevent  constipation.  Without  the 
fruits  and  vegetables  the  meals  would  be  lacking  in 
this  important  element. 

G.  Certain  newly  discovered  substances  in  very  small 
amounts,  which  are  believed  to  play  an  important  part 
in  keeping  people  well  and  in  promoting  the  growth  of 
children.  Without  milk  in  the  diet  some  of  these  sub- 
stances, particularly  those  necessary  for  children, 
would  be  lacking,  and  without  meat,  milk,  eggs,  fruits. 


WHAT  THE  BODY  NEEDS 


41 


and  vegetables  others  needed  by  persons  of  all  ages 
might  not  be  present  in  sufficient  amounts. 

H.  Flavorings  and  condiments. — In  most  families 
some  materials  are  used  in  preparing  or  serving  food 
which  add  to  the  attractiveness  of  the  meals  without 
furnishing  the  body  any  nourishment.  Among  these 
are  salt,  pepper,  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  spices,  season- 
ing herbs,  horse-radish,  flavoring  extracts,  and  many 
other  materials  often  spoken  of  as  “ condiments.” 
These  are  not  discussed  at  length,  because  they  are  not 
absolutely  needed  by  the  body.  They  may,  however, 
be  very  useful  in  making  an  otherwise  unattractive  diet 
taste  good.  In  fact,  the  secret  of  making  inexpensive 
meals  attractive  lies  largely  in  the  skillful  use  of  season- 
ing and  flavors,  and  in  this  way  may  well  be  worth  the 
cost  they  add  to  the  diet  even  if  they  do  not  increase 
its  actual  food  value. 

Any  kind  of  food  contains  one  or  more  of  the  sub- 
stances just  described,  and  they  are  combined  in  as 
many  different  ways  as  there  are  kinds  of  food.  A 
satisfactory  diet  contains  all  of  them  and  each  in  its 
proper  proportion,  and  the  problem  of  planning  meals 
is  really  that  of  choosing  foods  which  will  do  this. 

Grouping  Foods  to  Show  Their  Uses 

Perhaps  as  easy  a way  as  any  to  select  the  right  foods 
is  to  group  the  different  kinds  according  to  their  uses 
in  the  body  and  then  to  make  sure  that  all  the  groups 
are  represented  regularly  in  the  meals.  Fortunately 
no  more  than  five  groups  need  be  considered:  (1) 
Fruits  and  vegetables;  (2)  meats  and  other  protein- 
rich  foods;  (3)  cereals  and  other  starchy  foods;  (4) 
sweets;  and  (5)  fatty  foods.  The  materials  under 


42  ADVICE' TO  _THE  _ HOUSEWIFE 

each  of  these  heads  have  their  special  uses.  It  will 
be  helpful,  therefore,  for  the  housekeeper  to  form  the 
habit  of  thinking  of  the  many  different  kinds  of  food 
which  she  handles  as  grouped  in  some  such  way  as 
the  following: 

Group  1. — Fruits  and  vegetables,  such  as  apples, 
bananas,  berries,  citrus  fruits,  spinach  and  other 
greens,  turnips,  tomatoes,  melons,  cabbage,  green 
beans,  green  peas,  green  corn,  and  many  other  vegeta- 
bles and  fruits.  Without  these  the  food  would  be 
lacking  in  mineral  substances  needed  for  building  the 
body  and  keeping  it  in  good  working  condition;  in 
acids  which  give  flavor,  prevent  constipation,  and  serve 
other  useful  purposes;  and  in  minute  quantities  of 
other  substances  needed  for  health.  By  giving  bulk 
to  the  diet  they  make  it  more  satisfying  to  the  appetite. 

Group  2. — Meat  and  meat  substitutes,  or  protein- 
rich  foods:  Moderately  fat  meats,  milk,  poultry,  flsh, 
cheese,  eggs,  dried  legumes  (beans,  peas,  lentils,  cow- 
peas,  peanuts),  and  some  of  the  nuts.  These  are 
sources  of  an  important  body-building  material, 
protein.  In  the  case  of  children  part  of  the  protein 
food  should  always  be  whole  milk. 

Group  3. — Foods  rich  in  starch:  Cereals  (wheat, 
rice,  rye,  barley,  oats,  and  corn)  and  potatoes  (white 
and  sweet).  Cereals  come  near  to  being  complete 
foods,  and  in  most  diets  they  supply  more  of  the 
nourishment  than  any  other  kind  of  food.  It  is  not 
safe,  however,  to  live  only  on  cereals.  The  grains  may 
be  simply  cleaned  and  partially  husked  before  cooking, 
as  in  cracked  wheat  and  Scotch  oatmeal  : they  may  be 
ground  into  flour  and  used  as  the  basis  of  breads, 
cakes,  pastry,  etc.;  or  they  may  be  partially  cooked  at 
the  factory,  as  in  many  breakfast  preparations;  or 


WHAT  THE  BODY  NEEDS 


43 


they  may  be  prepared  in  the  form  of  such  pastes  as 
macaroni,  noodles,  etc.  In  all  these  forms  they  furnish 
the  body  with  the  same  general  materials,  though  in 
different  proportions. 

Group  4. — Sugar  (granulated,  pulverized,  brown,  and 
maple),  honey,  molasses,  sirup,  and  other  sweets. 
Unless  some  of  the  fuel  is  in  this  form  the  diet  is  likely 
to  be  lacking  in  flavor. 

Group  5. — Foods  very  rich  in  fat:  Bacon,  salt  pork, 
butter,  oil,  suet,  lard,  cream,  etc.  These  are  important 
sources  of  body  fuel.  Withoixt  a little  of  them  the  food 
would  not  be  rich  enough  to  taste  good. 

Some  food  materials  really  belong  in  more  than  one 
group.  Cereals,  for  example,  supply  protein  as  well  as 
starch;  potatoes  supply  starch  as  well  as  the  mineral 
matters,  acids,  cellulose,  and  body-regulating  sub- 
stances, for  which  they  are  especially  valuable;  and 
most  meat  supplies  fat  as  well  as  protein.  For  the  sake 
of  simplicity,  however,  each  material  is  here  grouped 
according  to  the  nutrient  for  which  it  is  usually  con- 
sidered most  valuable.  These  points  are  all  brought 
out  in  more  detail  in  other  bulletins  which  discuss  the 
special  groups. 

The  lists  given  below  show  some  of  the  common  food 
materials  arranged  in  these  five  groups.  If  the  house- 
keeper will  consult  them  in  planning  meals  until  she 
has  learned  where  each  kind  of  food  belongs,  she  will 
have  taken  the  first  step  toward  providing  a diet 
which  will  supply  all  the  food  needs  of  her  family. 
It  will  be  only  one  step,  to  be  sure,  but  it  should  pre- 
vent two  mistakes — that  of  serving  meals  that  have 
not  sufficient  variety,  and  that  of  cutting  down  in  the 
wrong  places  when  economy  either  of  time  or  money 
is  needed: 


44 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Group  1. — Foods  depended  on  for  mineral  matter Sy  vegetable  acids, 
and  body-regulating  substances 


Fruits: 

Apples,  pears,  etc. 
Bananas. 

Berries. 

Melons. 

Oranges,  lemons,  etc. 


Vegetables: 

Salads — lettuce,  celery,  etc. 
Potherbs  or  greens.” 
Potatoes  and  root  vege- 
tables. 

Green  peas,  beans,  etc. 
Tomatoes,  squash,  etc. 


Group  2. — Foods  depended  on  for  protein. 


Milk,  skim  milk,  cheese,  etc. 
Eggs. 

Meat. 

Poultry. 

Group  3. — 

Cereal  grains,  meals,  flours,  etc. 
Cereal  breakfast  foods 
Bread. 

Crackers. 

Macaroni  and  other  pastes. 


Fish. 

Dried  peas,  beans,  cowpeas, 
etc. 

Nuts. 


Cakes,  cookies,  starchy  pud- 
dings, etc. 

Potatoes  and  other  starchy 
vegetables. 


Foods  depended  on  for  starch. 


Group  4. — Foods  depended  on  for  sugar. 


Sugar. 

Molasses. 

Sirups. 

Honey. 


Candies. 

Fruits  preserved  in  sugar,  jel- 
lies, and  dried  fruits. 

Sweet  cakes  and  desserts. 


Group  5. — Foods  depended  on  for  fat. 

Butter  and  cream.  Salt  pork  and  bacon. 

Lard,  suet,  and  other  cooking  Table  and  salad  oils, 
fats. 

Thinking  of  foods  according  to  the  group  to  which 
they  belong  or  according  to  the  nutrient  which  they 
supply  in  largest  amount  will  help  the  housekeeper 
to  see  whether  in  the  meals  she  plans  she  has  supplied 
all  the  different  materials  needed,  especially  whether 


WHAT  THE  BODY  NEEDS 


45 


there  is  the  necessary,  though  small,  amount  of  tissue- 
building mineral  matters  and  body-regulating  materials 
(group  1),  and  of  tissue-building  protein  (group  2). 
When  she  has  made  sure  that  these  are  present,  she 
may  safely  build  up  the  bulk  of  the  diet  from  whatever 
materials  from  the  other  groups  seem  economical, 
wholesome,  and  appetizing.  By  means  of  this  group- 
ing she  will  be  reminded  that  meals  consisting  only 
of  cereal  mush  (group  3)  served  with  butter  (group  5) 
and  sirup  (group  4)  would  not  be  a complete  ration 
and  would  almost  surely  be  lacking  in  body-building 
material,  because  there  are  no  foods  from  either  group  1 
(fruits  and  vegetables)  or  group  2 (protein  rich).  It 
will  become  clear,  also,  that  a school  lunch  of  a kind 
far  too  frequently  served,  consisting  of  bread  and 
cake,  is  lacking  in  the  same  way,  and  that  a glass  of 
milk  (group  2)  and  an  apple  or  an  orange  (group  1) 
would  make  it  far  more  nearly  complete.  She  will 
learn  the  wisdom  of  serving  fruit  (group  1)  rather 
than  a whipped-cream  dessert  (group  5)  or  a suet 
pudding  (groups  3 and  5)  after  a course  including  a 
generous  portion  of  fat  meat  (groups  2 and  5). 

The  grouping  will  also  help  the  housekeeper  who 
wishes  to  save  money  or  time  to  simplify  her  meals  with- 
out making  them  one-sided  or  incomplete.  For  ex- 
ample, if  she  has  been  serving  bread,  potatoes,  and  rice 
or  hominy  in  one  meal,  she  will  see  that  one  or  even 
two  of  them  may  be  left  out  without  omitting  any 
important  nutrient,  providing  a reasonable  quantity 
of  the  one  or  two  remaining  is  eaten.  It  will  show  her 
that  a custard  which  is  made  of  milk  and  eggs,  two 
foods  from  group  2,  would  hardly  be  needed  after  a 
meal  in  which  a liberal  supply  of  meat  had  been  served, 
provided  one  ate  heartily  of  all,  and  that  a child  does 


46 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


not  need  milk  at  the  same  meal  with  an  egg  or  meat. 
It  will  suggest  that  baked  beans  or  other  legumes,  or 
thick  soups  made  of  legumes,  are  substitutes  for  meat 
rather  than  foods  to  be  eaten  with  meat. 

This  method  of  planning  prevents  substituting  one 
food  for  another  which  has  an  entirely  different  use. 
It  prevents  the  housekeeper,  for  example,  from  trying 
to  give  a pleasant  variety  by  using  an  extra  amount 
of  cakes  or  sweet  desserts  in  the  place  of  fruit  and 
vegetables  when  the  latter  seem  difficult  to  obtain. 
Sugar  is  nutritious  and  has  a valuable  place  in  the  diet, 
but  the  nourishment  it  furnishes  is  fuel  and  not  the 
body-building  and  body-regulating  materials  which  are 
found  in  fruits  and  vegetables,  and  it  is  not  safe  to 
cut  them  out,  even  if  the  meals  can  be  made  attractive 
without  them.  Fortunately,  they  are  not  always  so 
hard  to  obtain  as  it  seems,  and  the  wise  housekeeper 
will  make  every  effort  to  supply  them.  In  general, 
economy  within  each  group  is  safer  then  using  an  inex- 
pensive food  from  one  group  in  place  of  an  expensive 
one  from  another  group. 

Thinking  in  terms  of  these  groups  will  also  help  when 
laying  in  supplies.  Dried  peas  and  beans  and  dried 
fish,  canned  fish,  and  meat,  and  some  kinds  of  cheese 
keep  for  a long  time  and  can  be  used  in  place  of  fresh 
meat  in  an  emergency.  Fruits  and  vegetables  put 
up  when  they  are  abundant  will  help  to  supply  this 
important  group  in  winter. 

Farm  women  can  look  even  farther  ahead,  and  often 
can  plan  to  raise  a variety  of  foods  for  use  when  it  is 
difficult  to  buy  at  reasonable  prices;  for  example, 
enough  beans  to  give  the  family  a generous  supply. 
Though  navy  beans  have  been  most  largely  used  in 
this  country,  there  are  many  other  good  and  easily 


WHAT  THE  BODY  NEEDS 


47 


grown  kinds  that  can  be  chosen  to  give  variety.  In 
the  south  cowpeas  should  be  not  overlooked.  If 
sugar  is  high  in  price  honey  can  be  produced,  and  home- 
made or  purchased  sorghum,  maple,  or  cane  sirup  can 
bemused. 

How  to  Tell  Whether  or  Not  the  Diet  is  Adequate 

It  is  very  hard  for  a housekeeper  to  know  exactly 
how  much  of  each  of  the  food  substances  or  nutrients 
her  family  needs  or  exactly  how  much  of  each  she  is 
giving  them.  The  exact  amount  which  each  person 
needs  depends  upon  age,  sex,  size,  and  amount  of  work 
done  with  the  muscles.  An  elderly  person,  or  one  of 
quiet  habits,  needs  less  food  than  a vigorous,  young 
one;  a large  person  more  than  a small  one;  a man  more 
than  a woman;  grown  persons  more  than  children; 
and  a farmer  working  in  the  hayfield,  a mechanic,  or  a 
football  player  more  than  a man  who  sits  at  his  desk 
all  day. 

In  order  to  calculate  exactly  how  much  starch, 
sugar,  fat,  protein,  etc.  (or,  what  is  equivalent  to  this, 
how  much  protein  and  energy),  the  family  needs  one 
would  have  to  know  exactly  how  much  muscular 
work  each  member  was  performing  and  also  exactly 
how  much  of  the  different  nutrients  each  food  con- 
tained and  exactly  how  much  each  person  would 
eat.  This,  of  course,  would  mean  a great  deal  of 
figuring.  Fortunately,  such  exactness  is  not  neces- 
sary in  ordinary  life.  If  a little  too  much  or  too 
little  of  one  nutrient  is  provided  at  a single  meal  or 
on  a single  day  a healthy  body  does  not  suffer,  because 
it  has  ways  of  storing  such  a surplus  and  of  using  its 
stored  material  in  an  emergency.  The  danger  would 
come  if  the  diet  taken  week  in  and  week  out  always  pro- 


48 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


vided  too  much  or  too  little  of  some  one  nutrient. 
Against  this  danger  the  housekeeper  can  more  easily 
protect  her  family. 

Habit  and  custom  help  greatly,  because  they  usually 
are  based  on  what  the  experience  of  generations  has 
proved  is  wise  and  healthful,  though,  of  course,  there 
are  bad  habits  and  outgrown  customs  in  food  as  in 
everything  else.  Good  food  habits,  it  must  be  re- 
membered, include  cleanliness  and  order  in  every- 
thing that  has  to  do  with  food  and  meals  and  leisurely 
ways  of  eating.  Equally  important  are  a liking  for 
all  kinds  of  wholesome  foods,  even  if  they  have  not 
always  been  used  in  one’s  home  or  neighborhood, 
and  eating  reasonable  amounts,  without  being  either 
greedy  or  over-dainty.  Every  effort  should  be  made  to 
train  children  in  such  good  food  habits.  If  older 
people  have  not  learned  them,  they,  too,  should  try 
to  do  so,  for  such  things  are  very  important  not  only 
to  health  but  also  to  economy.  To  refuse  to  eat  some 
wholesome  dish  simply  because  one  is  not  accustomed 
to  it  may  prevent  the  use  of  some  very  desirable  and 
economical  food.  To  feel  that  there  is  any  virtue  in 
providing  more  food  than  is  needed  shows  poor  taste 
as  well  as  poor  economy. 

The  health  and  appearance  of  the  family  are  a good 
test  of  the  wholesomeness  of  their  diet.  If  they  are 
strong,  well  developed  for  their  ages,  free  from  ail- 
ments, and  full  of  energy  and  ambition,  one  may  safely 
say  their  food  agrees  with  them.  But  if  they  are  list- 
less and  ailing,  or  not  as  well  developed  either  physically 
or  mentally  as  they  should  be,  and  if  a competent 
physician  finds  that  there  is  no  special  disease  to  account 
for  these  bad  symptoms,  a mother  may  well  ask  herself 
if  the  food  is  right,  and  if  not,  how  she  can  make  it  so. 


WHAT  THE  BODY  NEEDS 


4P 

In  such  cases  she  might,  for  instance,  apply  for  in- 
formation on  food  and  diet  to  her  State  leader  in  agri- 
culture and  home  economics  and  to  the  home-econ- 
omics department  of  her  State  agricultural  college. 

General  Suggestions 

It  is  believed  that  it  is  impossible  to  plan  the  meals 
for  a family  wisely  without  at  least  as  much  knowledge 
of  how  different  kinds  of  food  serve  the  body  as  this 
bulletin  has  given  and  that  the  safest  short  cut  to  good 
planning  lies  in  considering  foods  in  the  five  groups 
here  described.  Ways  of  making  economical  use  of  the 
materials  in  each  group  can  not  be  discussed  in  this 
bulletin,  but  a few  general  suggestions  for  getting  the 
most  for  one’s  money  in  the  matter  of  food  may  be 
made  here. 

Use  cereals  (flour,  meal,  cereal  breakfast  foods,  etc.) 
freely,  taking  pains  to  prepare  them  with  great  care 
and  to  vary  the  kind  used  from  day  to  day  if  necessary 
to  keep  people  from  tiring  of  them. 

Remember  that  a quart  of  whole  milk  a day  for  each 
child,  to  be  used  as  a beverage  and  in  cookery,  is  not 
too  much. 

Remember  that  while  skim  milk  should  never  be  sub- 
stituted for  whole  milk  as  the  principal  food  in  a child’s 
diet,  it  is  as  valuable  as  whole  milk  as  a source  of 
protein  and  mineral  matters  in  the  general  diet. 

Remember  that,  except  in  the  case  of  milk  for  chil- 
dren, the  amount  needed  of  foods  specially  useful  for 
body-building  purposes — that  is,  meats  and  meat 
substitutes,  fruits,  and  vegetables — is  not  large,  but 
what  is  needed  is  needed  very  much. 

Do  not  be  ashamed  to  plan  closely.  Thrift  in  food 


50 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


means  providing  enough  food,  neither  too  little  nor 
too  much. 

Notice  carefully  how  much  of  such  staples  as  flour, 
sugar,  milk,  cooking  fat,  etc.,  is  used  each  week  for  a 
month,  and  see  if  there  are  any  ways  of  cutting  down  the 
quantity  consumed. 

Buy  nonperishable  materials  in  quantities  if  better 
prices  can  be  secured  and  there  is  a good  storage  place 
in  the  home.  Neighbors  can  sometimes  club  together 
to  get  lower  rates. 

Try  to  make  the  dishes  served  of  such  size  that  there 
will  be  enough  to  satisfy  the  appetite  of  the  family 
and  no  unnecessary  table  and  plate  waste. 

Do  not  be  above  noticing  whether  anything  usable 
is  thrown  away  with  the  garbage,  which  always  shows 
how  thriftily  food  is  used  in  a household. 

Many  inexpensive  materials  can  be  made  attractive 
and  the  diet  can  be  pleasantly  varied  by  a wise  use  of 
different  flavorings. 

“ Finicky  ” tastes  in  food  often  prevent  the  use  of 
many  valuable  materials  which  might  be  the  means 
of  saving  money. 

Good  food  habits  are  an  important  part  of  personal 
hygiene  and  thrift.  Children  get  such  habits  by  having 
suitable  amounts  of  suitable  foods  served  to  them  and 
then  being  expected  to  eat  what  is  set  before  them. 

True  economy  lies  not  only  in  buying  wisely,  but  also 
in  making  the  fullest  possible  use  of  what  is  bought. 


U.  S.  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FARMERS’  BULLETIN  NO.  871 


FRESH  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  AS  CON- 
SERVERS  OF  OTHER  STAPLE  FOODS 

CAROLINE  L.  HUNT 

Scientific  Assistant,  OflSce  of  Home  Economics,  States  Relations 

Service 


Contribution  from  the  States  Relations  Service 
A.  C.  TRUE,  Director 


INTRODUCTION 

Under  ordinary  conditions,  1 to  Ij  pounds  of  fresh 
fruits  and  vegetables  (the  equivalent  of  an  apple  or  an 
orange,  two  medium-sized  potatoes,  and  an  average- 
sized helping  of  some  other  vegetable)  is  probably  all 
that  even  a grown  person  really  needs  in  the  course  of 
a day.  He  may  desire  more  because  of  their  fine 
fiavor  or  refreshing  character,  but  the  necessary 
health-promoting  substances  would  probably  be  ob- 
tained from  the  amount  mentioned.  These  supply 
less  then  a tenth  of  all  the  fuel  and  the  protein  needed, 
but  a relatively  large  part  of  the  iron,  calcium,  and  phos- 
phorus. 


51 


52 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Uses  of  Fresh  Fruits  and  Vegetables  in  the  War 
Emergency  Diet 

In  an  emergency,  when  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables 
are  relatively  abundant  they  may  with  advantage  be 
used  partly  to  replace  cereals  and  sugar,  and  to  a less 
extent  meat.  Under  such  circumstances  it  is  the  part 
of  wisdom  to  examine  the  list  of  fruits  and  vegetables 
and  to  see  which  can  be  used  in  such  a way  as  to  save 
cereals  or  sugar,  and  which  used  in  such  a way  as  to 
save  meat. 

Fresh  fruits  and  vegetables  can  be  used  in  large  quan- 
tities with  little  danger,  providing  they  are  carefully 
cleaned  and  handled.  It  is  even  safe  to  say  that  there 
is  absolutely  no  danger  from  the  fruits  and  vegetables 
themselves,  the  only  real  difficulty  lying  in  the  fact 
that,  being  bulky,  they  quickly  satisfy  the  appetite  and 
sometimes  lead  people  to  leave  out  of  their  diet  the 
more  substantial  foods — meats,  cereals,  etc. — which 
are  needed  either  for  fuel  or  for  body-building  pur- 
poses. This  fact  should  always  be  kept  in  mind  in 
finding  uses  for  these  bulky  foods. 

Classification  of  Staple  Food  Savers 

Under  the  present  unusual  circumstances,  the  various 
fresh  fruits  and  vegetables  may  be  classed  as  follows: 

Meat  Savers.  Shelled  green  peas,  shelled  green 
beans  (Lima,  kidney,  etc.),  shelled  green  cowpeas 
(common  in  the  South),  shelled  green  soy  beans  (com- 
mon in  the  South). 

Cereal  Savers.  Potatoes,  sweet  potatoes,  partially 
ripe  bananas  (cooked). 

Sugar  Savers.  Sweet  potatoes,  all  fruits. 


FRESH  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


53 


Using  Shelled  Green  Beans  and  Peas  to  Save  Meat 

Beans  and  peas  contain  more  protein  than  other 
fresh  vegetables.  This,  however,  is  not  the  same  as  the 
proteins  of  meat,  milk,  or  egg,  and  should  not  be  used 
to  the  exclusion  of  the  others.  When,  however,  beans 
and  peas  are  freely  used,  less  milk,  meat,  and  eggs  are 
needed.  For  these  reasons  these  vegetables  are  here 
called,  not  meat  substitutes  but  meat  savers.  The 
following  foods  or  combinations  of  foods  supply  as 
much  protein  as  one-fourth  pound  of  beef  of  average 
composition : 

Eight  or  9 ounces  of  shelled  green  peas  or  beans.  A large 
dish  of  green  peas  may  be  used  in  place  of  meat  for  dinner  occa- 
sionally. Many  persons  like  peas  cooked  with  mint  or  served 
with  mint  sauce. 

One  egg  and  4 or  5 ounces  of  shelled  green  peas  or  beans. 
An  omelet  with  peas  (1  egg  and  1 cup  peas  per  person)  or  a 
baked  pea  or  bean  souffle  may  be  used  as  a meat  substitute. 
(See  recipe  on  p.  60.) 

One  cup  skim  milk  and  4 ounces  of  shelled  green  peas  or  beans. 
A Lima  bean  chowder  made  with  skim  milk  is  a good  limch 
or  supper  dish.  (See  recipe  on  p.  60.) 

Using  Potatoes  to  Save  Cereals 

A small  potato  (3  to  4 ounces)  supplies  as  much  starch 
as  a large  slice  of  bread  (1  ounce),  but  rather  less  pro- 
tein. Potatoes  eaten  abundantly  make  it  possible  to 
get  along  with  less  bread.  Potatoes  can  be  substituted 
for  about  one-fourth  of  the  wheat  flour  used  in  making 
ordinary  bread  and  rolls.  Recipes  are  given  in  Far- 
mers^ Bulletin  807.^  These  call,  however,  for  old 
rather  than  new  potatoes.  Mashed  potatoes  may  be 
used  in  place  of  biscuit  crust  in  making  meat  pies. 

1 Bread  and  bread  making  in  the  home. 


54 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Mashed  potato,  sliced  and  fried  may  be  used  in  place 
of  bread  and  butter  and  makes  a good  breakfast  dish. 
A very  large  variety  of  attractive  salads  may  be  made 
by  combining  potatoes  with  other  vegetables — peas, 
beans,  beets,  cucumbers,  radishes,  onion,  etc.  Cottage 
cheese  and  potato  salad  go  well  together.  This  cheese 
has  always  been  made  in  small  quantities  in  the  home, 
and  now  the  Department  of  Agriculture  is  recom- 
mending to  dairymen  that  they  make  it  as  a means  of 
utilizing  their  large  quantities  of  skim  milk.  This 
should  make  cottage  cheese  a more  common  article 
of  trade  than  it  has  been  in  the  past. 

Sweet  potatoes  can  be  used  in  the  same  way  as  white 
potatoes.  Bananas  baked  or  fried  supply  considerable 
starch,  though  the  amount  can  not  be  exactly  stated, 
because  as  the  fruit  ripens  the  starch  changes  to  sugar. 
Green  bananas  peeled  and  boiled  can  be  used  like 
mashed  potatoes,  or  may  be  sliced  raw  and  fried. 

Using  Fruits  to  Save  Sugar 

All  ripe  fruits  contain  sugar.  The  amount  varies 
from  about  3 ounces  or  i cup  per  pound  in  fresh  figs 
and  plums  to  about  § ounce  per  pound  in  watermelon. 

If  the  water  is  driven  off  from  fruits,  as  in  the  drying 
process,  the  sugar  becomes  far  more  prominent  than 
it  is  in  fresh  fruits.  Dried  fruits,  therefore,  taste  far 
sweeter  than  fresh  ones  and  are  for  this  reason  often 
classed  among  the  sweets.  It  should  be  remembered, 
however,  that  sugar  is  present  in  all  fresh  fruits,  even 
in  the  most  acid  ones,  and  that  those  persons  who  wish 
to  do  so  can  economize  on  other  kinds  of  sugar  by 
eating  large  amounts  of  fresh  fruits  in  unsweetened 
forms. 


FRESH  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


55 

In  warm  weather  melons  and  other  fruits  may  be  used 
in  place  of  made  ” desserts,  which  usually  contain  both 
butter  and  sugar.  Fruit  and  ice-cold  junket,  which  can 
be  prepared  from  skim  milk,  make  a refreshing  dessert 
and  utilize  perishable  foods  chiefly.  Or  the  dessert 
course  may  be  omitted  entirely  and  a fruit  salad  with 
cottage  cheese  may  be  used  in  its  place. 


Making  Fresh  Fruits  and  Vegetables  Help  out  on  the 
Protein  and  Fuel  of  the  Diet 


The  following  list  of  foods  provides  a day^s  ration  for 
three  men  or  four  women  (about  11  ounces  of  protein 
and  over  10,000  calories).  It  is  suitable  for  those  who 
can  get  large  supplies  of  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables. 
These  foods  supply  over  one-fifth  of  the  protein  and 
nearly  a third  of  the  fuel,  whereas  in  the  amounts 
used  in  the  ordinary  mixed  diet  they  seldom  supply 
more  than  a tenth  of  either. 


Cereals  of  various  kinds  (wheat  flour,  corn  meal,  etc.) 

Beef  of  average  composition 

Milk 


Pounds. 
. . . 1| 

3 

. . . 4 

...  2 ' 


Cottage  cheese J 

Potatoes 3 

Shelled  green  peas  or  beans IJ 

Other  vegetables,  including  those  served  cooked  and  those 

used  raw  as  salads . 2 

Fruits  (the  equivalent  of  6 quarts  of  strawberries,  12  large 

oranges,  or  16  large  apples) 6 

Fat  (butter,  butter  substitute,  lard,  oil,  and  other  fats),  1 cup  J 
Sugar,  1 cup 


56 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


These  foods  could  be  served  as  follows: 

A Day^s  Bill  of  Fare 

BREAKFAST 

Fruit,  2 quarts  berries  or  2 pounds  of  grapes,  or  the  equivalent 
in  any  other  fruit. 

Cereal,  4 ounces  uncooked,  equal  to  2 cups  of  mush. 

The  richer  half,  or  “ top,’^  of  2 quarts  of  milk. 

Toast,  4 ounces,  the  equivalent  of  4 very  large  slices  or  8 very 
small  ones. 

Butter,  2 ounces,  or  4 cubic  inches. 

Sugar  on  cereal  or  fruit,  or  in  coffee,  tea,  or  cocoa,  2 ounces,  or 
i cup. 

LUNCH  OR  SUPPER 
Cottage  cheese,  i pound. 

Vegetable  salad:  Four  potatoes,  an  equal  amount  of  another 
vegetable  (cucumbers,  beets,  string  beans,  peas,  or  any 
other),  2 ounces  of  oil,  bacon  fat,  or  other  fat. 

Crisp  corn  bread  (l  ,cup  or  8 ounces  of  corn  meal,  1 pint  skim 
milk.  For  recipe  see  Farmers^  Bulletin  565. ^ 

Butter,  fruit,  and  sugar,  as  in  breakfast. 

DINNER 

Meat  pie  with  mashed  potato  crust,  using  1 cup  milk  in  crust. 
Peas,  I peck  unshelled,  or  20  ounces  shelled. 

Bread,  4 ounces. 

Fruit  shortcake  (2  pounds  of  fruit,  IJ  cups  of  flour,  2 to  4 table- 
spoons of  fat,  1 cup  of  milk,  J cup  of  sugar). 

Butter  or  other  fat  on  bread  or  with  vegetables,  4 to  6 level 
tablespoons,  2 to  3 ounces. 

Vegetable  Recipes 

It  should  be  remembered  that  the  simplest  way  to 
serve  vegetables  is  also  a good  way,  i.e.,  to  boil, 
steam,  or  bake  them  and  to  serve  them  either  with 
salt  only  or  with  a little  butter,  milk,  or  cream.  How- 

^ Corn  meal  as  a food  and  ways  of  using  it. 


FRESH  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


57 


ever,  when  large  amounts  of  vegetables  are  to  be  intro- 
duced into  the  diet,  as  at  present,  it  is  desirable  to  know 
a variety  of  ways  in  which  to  prepare  them.  For  this 
reason  the  following  recipes  are  given. 

Vegetable  Soups 

Good  vegetable  soups  may  be  made  by  finely  chop- 
ping any  vegetable  or  combination  of  vegetables  and 
cooking  in  water  with  a little  rice  or  farina  for  thicken- 
ing. The  chopping  is  most  conveniently  done  with  a 
food  grinder.  The  following  recipe  calls  for  a com- 
bination of  vegetables,  which  is  only  one  out  of  many 
which  can  be  used.  Left-over  vegetables  can  be  used 
in  soups  of  this  kind. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

2 turnips.  6 tomatoes  or  1 pint  can  of 

2 potatoes.  tomatoes. 

1 onion.  2 sprigs  parsley. 

6 stalks  celery  with  tips.  IJ  teaspoons  salt. 

2 carrots.  J teaspoon  pepper. 

1 quart  water.  2 tablespoons  rice. 

Wash  and  pare  the  vegetables  and  put  them  through  the 
meat  chopper,  using  the  finest  blade.  Combine  all  the  ingre- 
dients and  cook  until  the  vegetables  and  rice  are  soft. 

The  water  in  which  rice  has  been  cooked  may  be  used  in 
preparing  this  dish  instead  of  rice  itself. 

Milk- Vegetable  Soups 

These  soups  offer  a good  way  in  which  to  utilize 
vegetables  and  also  skim  milk,  which  is  often  thrown 
away. 

MILK- VEGETABLE  SOUP,  METHOD  NO.  1 

The  soup  for  which  the  recipe  is  given  above  can  be 
made  with  milk,  providing  no  acid  vegetables  are  used. 
This  has  the  advantage  over  some  other  ways  of  making 


58 


- ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


milk-vegetable  soups  of  preserving  all  of  the  juices  of 
the  vegetables.  The  cooking  should  be  done  in  a 
double  boiler  to  prevent  scorching  and  curdling.  This 
is  a slow  process,  however,  for  the  temperature  in  the 
double  boiler  is  below  the  boiling  point,  and  for  this 
reason  the  vegetables  should  be  chopped  very  finely. 

MILK-VEGETABLE  SOUP,  METHOD  NO.  2 

Milk-vegetable  soups  may  be  thickened  with  flour. 
The  general  proportions  are  as  follows: 

Ingredients. — Liquid,  1 cup.  This  may  be  milk 
(whole  or  skim),  vegetable  pulp,  or  the  water  in  which 
vegetables  have  been  cooked. 

Fat,  I tablespoon  or  less.  This  may  be  butter, 
butter  substitute,  or  drippings.  The  fat  from  bacon 
or  salt  pork  gives  a particularly  good  flavor. 

Flour,  I tablespoon. 

Method  of  Preparing. — ^Melt  the  butter,  add  the 
flour,  and  cook  one  or  two  minutes,  being  careful  not 
to  brown.  Add  the  liquid  and  stir  until  the  mixture 
thickens.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

The  following  is  a typical  recipe: 


STRING-BEAN  SOUP 


2 quarts  string  beans, 
i cup  flour. 

J cup  or  less  of  fat. 

1 small  slice  of  onion. 


Salt. 

Pepper. 

Milk,  whole  or  skim,  enough  to 
make  2 quarts  of  soup. 


Cook  the  beans  until  tender  in  as  little  water  as  possible, 
drain,  and  rub  through  a sieve.  Add  the  bean  liquor  and  milk 
enough  to  make  2 quarts.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  and 
cook  carefully  one  or  two  minutes.  Add  the  liquid  and  cook 
until  the  mixture  thickens.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Part  of  the  beans  can  be  cut  into  small  pieces  and  served 
in  the  soup,  if  desired.  The  addition  of  large  amounts  of  such 
pieces  and  of  sliced  potatoes  converts  the  soup  into  a chowder. 


FRESH  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


59 


MILK- VEGETABLE  SOUP,  METHOD  NO.  3 

Soups  can  be  thickened  with  stale  bread,  which  makes 
it  possible  to  utilize  still  another  food  sometimes  thrown 
away.  Half  a small  slice  of  bread  or  about  J ounce 
of  bread  is  enough  to  thicken  1 cupful  of  soup.  The 
following  is  a typical  recipe: 

LETTUCE  SOUP 

1 head  lettuce,  or  the  equivalent  1 large  slice  of  stale  bread. 

in  the  outer  leaves  of  lettuce.  Butter  or  other  fat,  if  desired. 

1 small  slice  onion.  Salt  and  pepper. 

2 quarts  skim  milk. 

Put  the  lettuce  and  onion  through  the  meat  chopper  with  the 
bread  to  save  the  juice.  Put  into  a double  boiler  with  the 
skim  milk  and  cook  until  the  lettuce  is  soft.  Add  fat  (if  desired) 
and  the  salt  and  pepper. 

Vegetable  Chowders 

Vegetable  chowders  offer  another  good  way  of  using 
vegetables  and  also  skim  milk.  They  differ  little  from 
milk-vegetable  soups  made  according  to  Method  No.  1, 
except  that  less  liquid  is  used  and  the  vegetables  are 
usually  cut  into  small  pieces  instead  of  being  chopped 
finely.  For  this  reason  chowders  seem  more  substan- 
tial. As  in  the  case  of  the  vegetable  soups,  it  is  a mis- 
take to  be  confined  to  any  definite  recipe,  for  under 
these  circumstances  materials  are  often  wasted  which 
should  be  used.  The  following  typical  recipe  is  there- 
fore only  suggestive: 


MIXED  VEGETABLE  CHOWDER 


1 pouna  salt  pork  or  bacon. 

1 onion. 

6 medium-sized  tomatoes  or  1 
pint  stewed  tomatoes. 

1 green  pepper. 


4 medium-sized  potatoes. 
3 carrots. 

2 cups  skim  milk. 

2 tablespoons  flour. 

2 teaspoons  salt. 


60 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Put  the  bacon  or  pork,  onion,  and  pepper  through  the  meat 
chopper  and  cook  carefully  about  5 minutes.  Add  the  water 
and  tomatoes  and  cook  until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Cut 
the  potatoes  and  carrots  into  small  pieces  and  cook  in  water 
until  tender,  drain,  and  add  with  the  skim  milk  to  the  other 
ingredients.  Thicken  with  flour  mixed  with  a little  cold  milk. 


LIMA-BEAN  CHOWDER 


J pound  salt  pork. 
1 onion. 

1 green  pepper. 

3 cups  skim  milk. 


1 pint  or  I pound  green  shelled 
Lima  beans. 

4 small  potatoes. 

Salt  and  pepper. 


Put  the  pork,  onions,  and  pepper  through  the  grinder.  Cook 
carefully  for  2 or  3 minutes,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  Add 
either  the  beans  or  the  potatoes  with  water  enough  to  cover  and 
cook  until  the  vegetables  are  soft.  Cook  the  other  vegetable 
separately  and  when  soft  add  with  the  milk  to  the  other  mix- 
ture. Reheat  and  season. 


The  protein  in  the  above  dish  is  equal  to  that  in  about 
I pound  of  beef  of  average  composition. 

Any  vegetable  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  beans. 
Corn  and  salsify  are  perhaps  oftenest  so  used. 


Vegetable  Souffle  or  Baked  Omelet 

These  dishes  are  a good  way  to  combine  eggs  and 
vegetables.  If  made  with  the  green  shelled  legumes 
(peas,  beans,  soy  beans,  or  cowpeas),  they  may  be 
considered  meat  savers. 

GENERAL  RECIPE 

(1)  A thick  sauce  made  with  } cup  fat,  J cup  flour,  and  1 cup 

liquid  which  may  be  milk  (whole  or  skim),  cream,  meat 
stock,  or  the  water  in  which  vegetables  have  been  cooked. 

(2)  1 cup  thick  vegetable  pulp  made  by  draining  cooked  vege- 

tables and  then  mashing  them  or  putting  them  through 
a sieve. 


FRESH  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


61 


(3)  3 eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately. 

(4)  Flavoring.  Salt,  pepper,  onion  juice,  and  any  one  of  the 

following  may  be  used:  Very  finely  chopped  parsley, 
chives,  or  ham,  or  | teaspoon  curry  powder.  Bacon 
used  in  making  the  sauce  gives  a good  flavor. 

Mix  the  vegetable  pulp,  seasoning,  sauce,  and  well-beaten 
egg  yolks.  Carefully  fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs, 
put  into  a buttered  baking  dish,  and  bake  in  a slow  oven  until 
firm. 

The  amount  of  vegetables  in  this  dish  may  be  increased  by 
serving  vegetables  around  the  souffle. 

The  following  is  a typical  recipe  in  which  the  protein 
is  equivalent  to  that  in  10  or  11  ounces  of  average 
beef. 

GREEN-PEA  SOUFFLE 

J cup  fat.  Salt. 

J cup  flour.  Pepper. 

1 cup  skim  milk.  A few  drops  onion  juice,  or  a 

1 cup  mashed  cooked  peas  very  small  piece  of  onion 
(which  will  require  about  } boiled  with  the  peas, 
peck  peas). 

3 eggs. 

Combine  the  ingredients  as  directed  above. 

Other  Vegetables 

Directions  for  preparing  these  vegetables  in  other 
ways  and  also  for  preparing  vegetables  not  mentioned 
above  can  be  found  in  Department  of  Agriculture 
bulletins.. 

. Conclusions 

When  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables  are  abundant  and 
cheap  they  can  be  used  in  large  enough  amounts  to 
effect  an  important  saving  of  staple  foods.  If  used 
intelligently,  there  is  no  danger  that  the  diet  will  lack 
fuel  or  protein.  Fresh  legumes  may  be  used  to  a certain 


62  ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 

extent  in  place  of  meat,  potatoes  in  place  of  bread,  and 
fruit  in  place  of  sugar.  In  connection  with  these 
foods,  however,  it  is  safe  and  highly  desirable  to  use  skim 
milk  and  its  products,  which,  like  fresh  fruits  and  vege- 
tables, are  perishable  and  can  be  profitably  used  near 
the  place  of  production. 


U.  S.  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FARMERS’  BULLETIN  NO.  376 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


Mrs.  MARY  HINMAN  ABEL 


Prepared  under  the  Supervision  of  the  Office  of  Experi- 
ment Stations 
A.  C,  TR  UE,  Director 


INTRODUCTION 

The  woman  who  presides  over  a household  should 
consider  as  one  of  her  most  important  functions  the 
purchase  of  food  and  its  storage  preliminary  to  use  in 
the  kitchen.  Should  she  be  living  on  a farm  she  will 
buy  less  in  amount  than  the  woman  who  lives  in  the 
town  or  city,  but,  on  the  other  hand,  the  storage  of 
food  will  demand  more  of  her  attention.  In  both 
cases,  if  intelligence  and  care  are  lacking,  financial 
loss  will  ensue  and  the  family  table  will  be  less  attrac- 
tive and  wholesome  than  it  should  be. 

Most  families  have  traditions  and  well-established 
customs  to  guide  them  in  the  handling  and  storing 

63 


64 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


of  foods,  but  since  the  customs  of  one  family  may  differ 
widely  from  those  of  another,  it  is  well  to  examine 
and  compare  them  in  order  to  select  the  best.  Scien- 
tific investigation  has  also  thrown  light  on  many  of 
the  processes  concerned  and  the  result  of  such  labors 
should  be  at  the  service  of  the  householder.  The 
health  and  efficiency  of  the  family  is  the  chief  object 
of  her  care,  and  it  is  an  end  well  worth  the  effort. 

Yeasts,  Molds,  and  Bacteria,  and  the  Spoiling  of  Food 

In  the  buying,  storing,  and  handhng  of  food  it  is  most 
important  that  we  realize  the  causes  of  what  is  called 
the  “ spoiling  ” of  food.  This  knowledge  is  com- 
paratively recent. 

The  Nature  of  Yeasts,  Molds,  and  Bacteria 

Countless  numbers  of  tiny  living  things  called  micro- 
organisms, a word  meaning  simply  “ small  living 
things,”  are  everywhere  found  which  will  grow  in  the 
food  man  has  prepared  for  his  own  use  and  cause  it 
to  spoil.  Indeed,  the  kind  of  food  required  by  man  and 
animals  seems  to  be  that  which  is  also  best  suited  to 
these  microscopic  plants. 

It  is  this  very  demand  for  highly  organized  food 
which  brings  them  into  such  close  relation  to  all  prob- 
lems that  concern  the  food  of  man.  These  micro- 
scopic plants  flourish  in  the  kitchen,  storeroom,  ice 
box,  milk  room,  and  cellar.  If  the  conditions  are 
favorable  they  reproduce  themselves  with  incredible 
rapidity,  one  bacterium  in  the  course  of  a day  produc- 
ing a million  more  minute  plants  like  itself.  The  bulk 
of  these  minute  forms  of  life  are  harmless,  under 
certain  conditions;  some  are  useful,  like  those  which 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


65 


ripen  milk;  and  many  are  harmful,  since  they  cause 
waste  or  may  be,  what  is  much  more  serious,  a direct 
cause  of  disease. 

Molds,  yeasts,  and  bacteria  may  be  found  in  the 
cleanest  room,  but  they  exist  in  far  greater  numbers 
in  dirty  quarters,  where,  for  instance,  crumbs  of  food 
have  been  allowed  to  decay  and  dust  to  accumulate. 
Not  only  do  .the  micro-organisms  appropriate  our 
food,  with  the  result  that  the  food  sours,  rots,  or 
putrefies,  but  they  sometimes,  in  addition,  leave 
behind  disagreeable  consequences  like  the  musty  and 
moldy  odor  and  flavor  of  some  spoiled  foods,  or  the  sub- 
stances called  ptomaines,  which  are  sometimes  poison- 
ous. The  housekeeper’s  success  in  preserving  food 
from  deterioration  depends  very  largely  on  her  ability 
to  reduce  the  number  of  these  unbidden  guests  to  the 
lowest  possible  limit. 

The  science  of  bacteriology  has  given  us  a new 
meaning  for  the  scrubbing,  airing,  and  sunning  that  for 
many  generations  good  housekeepers  have  success- 
fully practiced;  it  shows  us  that  the  storing  and  han- 
dling of  foods  are  essential  bacteriological  questions, 
and  on  that  account  some  knowledge  of  the  nature  of 
these  microscopic  plants  is  here  in  order. 

Yeasts  and  their  Utilization 

Not  until  millions  of  yeast  cells  are  massed  together 
do  they  become  visible  to  the  eye  as  in  the  compressed 
yeast  cake.  Yeast  plants  are  practically  everywhere 
and  are  of  many  varieties,  some  being  called  wild 
yeasts,”  in  distinction  from  those  we  have  learned 
to  cultivate  for  the  making  of  bread  and  brewing 
of  beer,  and  the  fermentation  of  wine  and  cider.  The 
old-fashioned  method  of  making  milk-rising  ” or 


66 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


“ salt-rising  ” bread  depended  on  wild  yeast  falling 
into  the  dough  and  causing  the  bread  to  rise,  a method 
not  always  successful,  because  other  organisms,  the 
bacteria,  also  had  a chance  at  the  dough  and  some- 
times got  the  better  of  the  yeast  in  the  struggle  for 
food,  and  the  result  of  their  life  in  the  dough  was 
sour  or  bitter  bread. 

Even  when  we  are  able  to  utilize  the  life  processes 
of  the  yeast  plant,  its  good  offices  are  paid  for  with  a 
certain  amount  of  food  material ; thus,  when  introduced 
into  the  bread  dough  it  breaks  up  part  of  the  sugar 
present  into  alcohol  and  carbonic-acid  gas,  and  the 
gas  becomes  tangled  and  stretches  out  in  the  glutenous 
mass,  making  the  porous  loaf  which  at  the  right  moment 
is  stiffened  by  the  heat  of  the  oven. 

In  the  same  way  the  wild  yeast  attacks  the  sugar 
in  the  stewed  fruit  that  has  stood  exposed  on  a warm 
day,  or  the  jelly  left  uncovered,  or  sometimes  even  when 
apparently  covered,  only  in  these  cases  the  gas  evolved 
serves  no  useful  purpose  and  the  fermentation  ruins 
the  taste  of  the  food. 

Yeasts  grow  best  at  a temperature  of  70  to  90°  F.; 
therefore,  food  that  is  to  be  protected  from  their  action 
must  be  kept  well  below  this  point. 

Molds  and  their  Prevention 

The  appearance  of  mold  as  growing  on  bread,  cheese, 
and  other  foods  is  familiar  to  every  housewife;  mildew 
on  cloth  is  a less  commonly  recognized  form  of  mold. 

The  spores  (i.e.,  the  minute  reproductive  bodies)  of 
the  different  varieties  of  mold  are  everywhere  present, 
and  they  need  only  warmth  and  moisture  to  enable 
them  to  grow  on  many  kinds  of  food.  These  organisms 
are  always  at  work  in  damp  cellars  and  in  dark  and 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


67 


damp  corners  of  rooms;  they  are  borne  on  the  feet  of 
insects,  they  are  on  the  skins  of  all  fruits,  and  in  the 
dust  flying  in  the  air.  They  are  not  fond  of  light  and 
they  require  no  great  abundance  of  air,  flourishing 
best  in  foods  that  are  piled  close  together,  leaving  small 
undisturbed  air  spaces  and  moisture.  They  always 
start  on  the  surface  and  throw  their  thread-like  fila- 
ments down  into  the  substance  below.  Take,  for 
example,  a fine  ripe  apple  and  closely  examine  the  skin. 
If  it  is  in  good  condition  and  attractive  it  is  almost 
certain  that  the  flesh  is  protected  in  the  natural  way  by 
an  unbroken  skin  which  resists  the  entrance  of  molds 
and  other  micro-organisms.  If,  however,  the  apple 
has  begun  to  spoil,  it  is  almost  certain  that  the  skin 
has  been  broken. 

When  fruits  touch  each  other,  the  point  of  contact 
is  likely  to  be  moister  than  the  rest  of  the  fruit,  and  for 
this  and  other  reasons  it  is  a favorite  place  for  the 
starting  of  mold  or  other  growth.  If  the  skin  is 
perfectly  firm  and  we  rub  it  with  a clean  cloth  to  dry 
it  and  to  remove  as  many  as  possible  of  the  mold 
germs,  then  wrap  the  apple  in  soft  paper  and  put  it 
in  a cold  place,  precautions  have  been  taken  which 
should  hinder  or  prevent  decay.  If,  however,  the  fruit 
is  kept  in  a warm  and  damp  place,  and  touching  other 
fruits,  its  decay  is  certain.  In  dealing  with  all  varie- 
ties of  microscopic  life  we  have  learned  that  to  prevent 
them  from  getting  a start  is  the  all-important  thing. 
The  growth,  once  begun,  is  difficult  to  arrest.  ^ 

The  first  requisite  is  absolute  cleanliness  in  the 
storage  place.  This  is  not  to  be  attained  by  the  use  of 
soap  and  water  alone.  Fresh  air,  sunshine,  and  white- 
wash are  important  aids.  Shelves  should  be  washed 
clean  and  then  dried;  but  the  undue  use  of  water 


68 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


should  be  avoided,  as  moisture  is  one  of  the  chief 
requisites  of  growth.  A cellar  may  be  kept  dry  by 
placing  in  it  dishes  of  unslaked  lime,  which  takes  up 
the  moisture  with  avidity.  When  the  lime  crumbles 
apart,  losing  entirely  its  crystalline  character,  it  has 
become  “ slaked,”  will  take  up  no  more  water,  and  must 
be  renewed. 

The  growth  of  most  molds  is  retarded  by  light, 
ventilation,  and  low  temperature.  Light  and  ventila- 
tion are  important.  The  right  degree  of  cold  for  each 
different  product  has  been  studied  experimentally, 
and  a knowledge  of  low  temperature  in  relation  to  the 
growth  of  bacteria  and  fungi  forms  the  basis  of  the  cold- 
storage  industry. 

Bacteria  and  How  to  Control  Them 

From  the  standpoint  of  household  sanitation  bacteria 
are  by  far  the  most  important  of  the  three  groups  of 
micro-organisms  under  consideration.  They  are  many 
times  smaller  than  the  yeasts,  and  their  power  of  repro- 
duction is  almost  unlimited.  They  require  at  least 
25  per  cent  of  moisture  in  which  to  live  and  multiply, 
and  they  prefer  darkness  to  light,  and  while  as  a class 
they  grow  best  at  a comparatively  high  temperature, 
80  to  95°  F.,  most  of  them  are  killed  by  an  exposure 
to  150-160°  F.  of  moist  heat.  A repeated  application 
of  boiling  temperature  is  necessary,  however,  to  kill 
the  spores  which  certain  kinds  produce. 

Bacteria  are  very  widely  distributed;  the  soil  teems 
with  them;  they  are  in  the  air,  in  water,  and  in  all 
food  exposed  to  dust  and  air,  milk  being  a favorite 
habitat.  The  flesh  of  healthy  living  animals  is  free 
from  them,  but  when  slaughtered  and  marketed  the 
surface  is  almost  certain  to  acquire  bacteria,  like  all 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


69 


things  which  are  exposed  to  air  and  dust.  They  are 
inside  the  human  body,  often  performing  important 
functions,  as  in  intestinal  digestion.  In  short,  wher- 
ever organic  material  is  exposed  to  their  inroads  there 
they  are  found. 

It  is  said  that  the  numbers  of  bacteria  are  in  direct 
relation  to  density  of  population.  We  can  not  get 
away  from  them  without  going  into  the  highest  moun- 
tains or  to  the  polar  regions;  but  we  can  protect  our 
food  supply  from  their  undue  growth  by  reversing 
all  the  conditions  that  they  require  for  their  develop- 
ment. 

It  is  of  primary  importance  that  bacteria  be  pre- 
vented from  getting  their  start.  Hence,  only  such 
foods  should  be  bought  as  are  in  the  freshest  and  best 
possible  condition.  Since  succulent  fruits,  milk,  raw 
meat,  and  meat  products  are  especially  subject  to  bac- 
terial action,  they  must  be  given  unusual  attention. 
They  should  be  consumed  as  soon  as  possible  after  pur- 
chase or  subjected  to  the  following  conditions:  Uten- 
sils that  come  in  contact  with  them  must  be  thoroughly 
scalded,  or  better,  boiled.  The  hands  and  clothing 
of  the  worker  must  be  kept  clean  and  every  effort  made 
to  avoid  contact  with  dirt.  Of  cooked  foods,  moist 
vegetables,  cooked  fruits,  moist  made  dishes  like 
meat  pies  and  similar  dishes  are  particularly  liable  to 
“ spoil  ” or  “ sour,”  and  the  importance  of  clean 
utensils,  of  keeping  the  foods  protected  from  dust, 
etc.,  can  not  be  too  often  pointed  out. 

The  temperature  at  which  food  is  kept  should  be  re- 
duced to  that  best  suited  to  it,  which  is  usually  as  near 
the  freezing  point  as  possible.  Highly  putrescible 
food,  as  meat,  is  thus  kept  for  months  in  cold  storage, 
and  a good  ice  box  will  keep  such  food  for  days  in  per- 


70 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


feet  condition.  Cool,  clean  storage  is  as  important 
for  many  cooked  foods  as  for  raw. 

Since  the  water  content  of  food  must  be  above  25 
per  cent  before  bacterial  life  is  possible  in  it,  we  may 
preserve  food  by  drying  it.  This  method,  often  in 
combination  with  salting  and  smoking,  is  applied  to  fish, 
meat,  vegetables,  and  fruit. 

By  exposing  food  to  150-160°  F.  of  heat  for  half 
an  hour  all  varieties  of  bacteria  would  be  killed  except 
a few  that  are  very  resistant  to  heat.  In  the  case 
of  spore-forming  bacteria,  the  spores  would  in  cer- 
tain cases  resist  this  degree  of  heat.  The  pasteuriza- 
tion of  milk  offers  a familiar  example  of  a food  that  is 
kept  from  spoiling  by  this  method. 

After  thorough  boiling  food  may  be  sealed  from  the 
outer  air  by  the  well-known  method  of  canning. 

Most  varieties  of  bacteria  are  killed  in  a few  hours 
by  direct  sunshine,  but  it  must  be  direct.  The  recesses 
of  a dark  room  are  little  affected  by  what  sunshine 
may  filter  into  its  depths.  Contents  of  storerooms 
should  now  and  then  be  sunned,  and  such  rooms 
should  be  regularly  aired. 

We  may  often  make  use  of  substances  that  inhibit 
bacterial  growth.  These  tiny  organisms  can  not  live 
in  a very  heavy  sugar  solution,  a fact  made  use  of  in 
preserving  fruits.  Vinegar,  spices,  salt,  and  wood 
smoke  have  a like  effect,  and  their  use  is  familiar  in 
pickled  and  spiced  vegetables  and  fruits  and  in  salted 
and  smoked  meats. 

Ptomaine  Poisoning 

In  some  foods  bacteria  in  the  early  stages  of  their 
action  leave  no  disagreeable  or  unhealthful  effects,  so 
far  as  yet  proved.  Meat  is  in  some  measure  ripened 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


71 


by  bacterial  action,  and  the  gamey  ’’  taste  given  meat 
by  hanging  comes  in  part  from  the  same  cause, 
though  in  both  cases  the  changes  are  chiefly  due  to  the 
action  of  ferments  normally  present. 

It  is  not  easy  to  draw  the  line  between  the  harmless 
ripening  processes  and  the  bacterial  changes  classed 
as  decay,  but  if  the  bacteria  are  allowed  to  grow 
without  hindrance  the  time  comes  when  the  food, 
either  animal  or  vegetable,  attacked  by  bacteria, 
breaks  up  into  a loathsome  mass. 

The  food  may  become  dangerous  even  before  it 
shows  outward  signs  of  decomposition,  for  the  bacteria 
may,  as  they  feed  upon  the  proteids,  give  off  substances 
known  as  ptomaines,  hardly  to  be  recognized  without 
laboratory  apparatus,  but  some  of  which  are  very 
poisonous  to  man.  Certain  apparently  mysterious 
cases  of  illness  have  been  traced  to  such  causes,  and 
milk,  fish,  meat,  cheese,  baked  beans,  ice  cream,  and 
other  foods  have  all  been  found  responsible  for  food 
poisoning.’^  It  is  no  uncommon  thing  to  hear  that  a 
large  number  of  the  persons  attending  a banquet  were 
taken  violently  ill  within  a few  hours  after,  all  with 
very  similar  symptoms.  In  some  cases  the  illness  has 
been  of  brief  duration,  in  others  it  has  continued  for 
days,  or  even  resulted  in  death.  In  one  instance  the 
offending  food  may  have  been  lobster  salad,  in  another, 
cold-storage  chicken,  in  still  another,  ice  cream. 
These  severe  cases  of  wholesale  poisoning  generally 
occur  in  the  summer  and  after  a very  heated  term. 
Doubtless  many  milder  cases,  called  summer  com- 
plaint, are  due  to  the  same  cause.  This  sort  of  poison- 
ing is  not  a true  bacterial  disease;  that  is,  it  is  not  due, 
as  is  typhoid  fever,  to  the  growth  of  an  organism  in 
the  body,  but  the  illness  results  from  the  introduction 


72 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


into  the  system  of  poisonous  substances  already  formed 
in  the  food  by  the  bacteria. 

It  is  not  known  under  what  conditions  these  peculiar 
poisons  are  developed  in  foods;  we  know  only  that  they 
are  the  result  of  bacterial  action  not  so  advanced  as  to 
give  warning  to  the  senses.  It  is  a safe  rule  to  eat 
very  sparingly  of  foods  which  are  liable  to  such  changes 
in  hot  weather,  and  especially  where  the  methods  of 
preparation  are  not  known  or  where  the  serving  of  a 
large  number  of  people  at  the  same  time  brings  an  undue 
strain  on  the  culinary  forces,  in  which  case  material 
is  certain  to  be  served  which  has  been  prepared  a con- 
siderable time  in  advance  and  not  properly  cooled 
and  stored. 

Disease  “ Germs  ” and  Polluted  Water 

The  so-called  “ germs  ” of  typhoid  fever,  diphtheria, 
and  tuberculosis  are  bacteria,  and  as  they  may  be  con- 
veyed by  means  of  water  or  food  this  danger  is  a very 
real  and  serious  one. 

As  a proof  that  contaminated  water  is  the  direct  or 
indirect  source  of  typhoid-fever  infection  it  may  be 
mentioned  that  the  statistics  of  10  large  European  cities 
whose  water  supply  is  drawn  from  pure  mountain 
lakes  and  streams  showed  in  1905  a death  rate  very 
much  lower  than  that  of  a large  number  of  American 
cities  whose  average  death  rate  from  typhoid  fever 
was  34  per  100,000  inhabitants.^ 

The  germs  of  typhoid  fever,  like  those  of  cholera, 
are  voided  in  the  feces  and  urine  of  the  patient.  Be- 
cause of  carelessness  or  ignorance  in  the  disposal  of 
these  excreta  they  find  their  way  into  surface  drainage, 
reach  brooks  and  streams,  and  defile  wells.  Such 

^ Jour.  New  England  Waterworkers’  Assoc.,  19  (1905),  No.  4,  p.  575. 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


73 


infected  water  used  as  a beverage  may  readily  cause 
typhoid.  By  means  of  milk  cans  washed  in  such  water, 
or  by  the  hands  and  clothing  of  persons  who  have 
nursed  typhoid  patients,  the  germs  are  planted  in 
milk,  and  in  this  nutritive  medium  they  develop  with 
wonderful  rapidity,  so  that  milk  becomes,  next  to  water, 
the  great  carrier  of  typhoid.  It  is  also  known  to  have 
carried  diphtheria  and  scarlet  fever  and  it  has  well  been 
called  the  most  valuable  and  the  most  dangerous 
food.  The  relation  of  flies  and  dust  to  typhoid  and 
other  diseases  is  discussed  later. 

For  protection  from  a polluted  water  and  milk 
supply  we  must  look  chiefly  to  sanitary  laws  and  their 
rigid  enforcement.  In  such  laws  the  housekeeper  who 
is  seeking  to  guard  the  health  of  her  family  has,  or 
should  have,  the  most  lively  interest.  She  should 
understand  them  herself,  report  any  cases  of  dis- 
obedience that  may  come  to  her  notice,  and  be  willing  to 
work  for  the  passage  of  better  laws  if  they  are  needed. 

If  the  water  supply  is  not  known  to  be  well  guarded 
from  pollution,  the  existence  of  a disease  like  typhoid 
fever  in  any  locality  requires  that  the  greatest  precau- 
tions must  be  taken  in  every  house.  The  drinking 
water  must  be  boiled  to  destroy  any  disease-producing 
bacteria  possibly  contained  in  it,  and  this  boiled  water 
must  be  used  for  cleaning  the  teeth,  for  washing  such 
vegetables  and  fruits  as  are  consumed  raw,  and  also 
in  rinsing  dishes  and  cooking  utensils. 

The  - tubercle  bacillus,  the  cause  of  tuberculosis, 
should  also  be  guarded  against,  though  it  is  not  likely 
to  be  carried  by  city  water.  Food  may  become  in- 
fected with  it  from  contact  with  a person  suffering 
from  the  disease,  and  it  is  not  unreasonable  to  forbid 
any  such  to  aid  in  preparing  meals.  It  is  also  a reason- 


74 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


able  measure  to  prohibit  the  sale  of  milk  from  a farm 
where  the  disease  is  known  to  exist. 

The  Necessity  of  Caution  in  the  Use  of  Raw  Foods 

The  numerous  cautions  suggested  in  this  bulletin 
may  seem  unnecessary,  but  a few  facts  will  show  that 
they  are  not  extreme. 

In  older  civilizations,  where  the  soil  has  been  ex- 
hausted and  needs  constant  manuring,  cooked  fruit 
and  vegetables  rather  than  raw  are  much  more  the 
rule  than  with  us.  In  densely-peopled  China,  where 
night  soil  is  used  to  fertilize  the  land,  the  eating  of 
raw  vegetables  is  said  to  be  very  rare.  It  is  easy  to  see 
why  such  foods  uncooked  might  be  very  dangerous. 
Although  such  methods  are  not  followed  to  any  great 
extent  in  the  United  States,  raw  fruits  and  vegetables 
may  be  a menace  to  health.  Methods  of  washing  fruits 
and  vegetables  are  discussed  in  another  section. 

A Russian  authority,  Professor  Metchnikoff/  be- 
cause of  the  possible  presence  of  disease  micro-organisms 
and  minute  animal  pests,  as  intestinal  worms,  strongly 
advises  against  the  eating  of  any  raw  food  whatever, 
even  if  it  has  been  washed  in  boiled  water.  Although 
this  view  may  be  considered  extreme  for  American 
conditions,  it  shows  what  care  must  be  taken  in  the 
purchase  and  the  cleaning  of  food  that  is  to  be  consumed 
raw. 

Kitchen  methods  in  many  of  their  details  fail  to  meet 
the  requirements  of  sanitary  science.  The  cook  is  not 
trained  in  bacteriology;  she  does  not  know  what  clean- 
liness means  from  the  laboratory  point  of  view.  The 
old-fashioned  hatred  of  dirt  for  its  own  loathsome 
sake  is  the  best  substitute  for  this  knowledge,  but 

1 The  New  Hygiene.  New  York,  1907. 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


75 


it  is  not  enough.  For  instance,  boiling  has  long  been 
known  to  kill  whatever  was  the  cause  of  “ spoiling  ” 
of  food.  However,  most  housekeepers  did  not  “ boil 
out  ” the  milk  pans,  etc.,  but  simply  scalded  them. 
“ Scalding  ” is  an  indefinite  term;  if  boiling  hot  water 
is  used,  and  enough  of  it,  scalding  would  doubtless  be 
effective,  but  too  often  when  the  facts  in  the  case  are 
not  thoroughly  understood  such  a process  is  carelessly 
carried  out  and  the  desired  end  is  not  accomplished. 
When  in  such  cases  the  milk  spoils  very  quickly  it  is 
often  attributed  to  the  weather  or  to  bad  luck.  The 
housekeeper  who  understands  the  causes  of  spoiling, 
and  who  knows  that  the  microscopic  plants  responsible 
for  it  may  be  destroyed  by  a sufficient  degree  of  heat 
applied  for  the  proper  time,  is  much  more  likely  to  be 
successful  than  one  who  works  by  rule  of  thumb. 
Here,  as  in  so  many  other  household  problems,  knowl- 
edge is  essential.  How  is  the  ignorant  cook  to  know 
that  what  lurks  unseen  in  crack  or  seam  may  bring 
to  naught  all  her  precautions?  The  homely  old  dictum 
that  the  only  way  to  conquer  dirt  is  by  “ eternally 
keeping  at  it  ” is  as  true  as  ever  it  was,  but  as  we  have 
come  to  realize  more  and  more  the  insidiousness  and 
omnipresence  of  the  enemy  to  health,  and  that  in  the 
form  of  bacteria  it  consorts  with  dirt,  we  realize  also 
that  every  housekeeper  and  houseworker  must  be  made 
to  understand  something  about  the  microscopic  forms 
of  life  which  are  harmful,  and  how  to  apply  all  the 
weapons  which  modern  science  has  discovered  for  their 
destruction. 

Flies  and  Food 

The  intelligent  housekeeper  of  this  generation  has 
at  her  command  a wealth  of  scientific  knowledge  that 


76 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


may  be  applied  to  the  solution  of  problems  in  home 
sanitation.  Of  great  value  are  the  means  which 
have  been  devised,  thanks  to  the  work  of  the  Bureau 
of  Entomology  of  this  Department,  the  agricultural 
experiment  stations,  the  state  boards  of  health,  and 
investigators  in  many  universities  and  other  institu- 
tions, to  prevent  the  spread  of  disease  by  insects  and 
other  forms  of  animal  life.  In  the  nature  of  things, 
the  importance  of  this  matter  was  not  recognized 
until  it  had  been  shown  with  certainty  that  such  ani- 
mal life  played  an*important  part  in  the  transmission 
of  disease.  Two  varieties  of  mosquitoes  are  generally 
conceded  to  be  absolutely  necessary  to  the  transmission, 
respectively,  of  malaria  and  of  yellow  fever,  since  the 
organism  that  causes  these  diseases  must  first  undergo 
a complicated  series  of  changes  in  the  body  of  the 
insect  before  it  is  capable  of  producing  a new  case. 
Thus,  the  mosquito  bites  a yellow-fever  patient  and 
takes  the  micro-organism  into  its  body,  and  there  for 
some  twelve  days  it  is  developed  to  the  stage  of  matur- 
ity, after  which  time  and  not  before  the  mosquito 
can  convey  the  disease  by  biting.  In  such  cases  the 
insect  is  called  an  “ intermediary  host.”  Both  dis- 
eases are  now  successfully  fought  by  exterminating 
the  breeding  places  of  the  mosquito  and  by  the  screen- 
ing of  dwellings. 

Insects  play  a still  larger  part  as  mechanical  carriers 
of  disease  germs,  the  greatest  menace  of  all  in  our  daily 
life  being  the  common  house  fly,  known  to  scientists 
as  the  Musca  domestica.  It  is  not  a biter,  like  the 
horsefly  and  some  other  flies,  or  like  the  mosquito, 
but  it  has  its  own  way  of  carrying  infection.  It  breeds 
in  manure  and  it  feeds  on  it;  it  feeds  on  the  sputum 
of  diseased  throats  and  lungs,  on  typhoid  dejecta, 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


77 


and  refuse  of  all  kinds,  and  by  means  of  its  hairy 
feet  and  legs  it  carries  about  and  distributes  particles 
of  these  vile  feasts,  which  frequently  contain  living 
germs  capable  of  producing  a new  case  of  disease.  In 
still  another  way  does  the  fly  spread  disease — disease 
germs  taken  into  its  body  in  food  are  known  to  remain 
alive  in  the  intestines  and  also  for  days  after  they  are 
ejected  in  the  “ specks,”  i.e.,  in  the  fly  excrement. 
By  recent  experiments  with  animals  this  has  been 
proved  true  of  both  the  tuberculosis  and  the  typhoid 
bacillus,  the  germs  in  the  “ speck  ” having  actually 
given  the  disease  from  9 to  15  days  after  it  was  voided 
by  the  fly.  Also  the  eggs  of  worms  that  it  draws 
into  its  body  with  water  that  it  drinks  are  known  to 
remain  alive  and  to  hatch  after  being  ejected. 

The  case  against  flies  is  well  proved,  and  yet  they 
are  allowed  to  infect  the  joint  of  meat  exposed  for 
sale  by  the  butcher,  the  bread  and  sweetmeats  of  the 
confectioner’s  counter,  berries  and  other  fruit,  the  edge 
of  the  milk  pail,  the  kitchen  table  and  utensils,  and  the 
food  of  our  table.  They  were  shown  to  be  the  prin- 
cipal carrier  of  the  typhoid  fever  which  attacked 
20  per  cent  of  the  United  States  soldiers  in  the  Cuban 
war  and  furnished  86  per  cent  of  the  deaths.  As  the 
report  ^ states,  “ Flies  undoubtedly  served  as  carriers 
of  infection.  . . . It  is  probable  that  the  infection 
was  [also]  disseminated  to  some  extent  through  the 
air  in  the  form  of  dust.”  Furthermore,  it  is  pointed 
out  that  the  men  undoubtedly  spread  the  disease 
by  means  of  infected  material  conveyed  on  their 
persons  and  clothing.  Water  was  not  regarded  as  an 
important  factor  in  the  spread  of  typhoid  fever  in  the 

1 Abstract  of  Report  on  the  Origin  and  Spread  of  Typhoid  Fever  in  United 
States  Military  Camps  during  the  Spanish  War  of  1898.  Washington,  1900. 


78 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


national  encampment  of  1898.  Since  that  time 
so  may  well-proved  cases  have  been  traced  to  the  fly 
that  Dr.  L.  0.  Howard  ^ recommends  that  the  name 

typhoid  fly  ’’  should  be  generally  adopted,  in  order 
to  call  attention  to  the  danger  of  allowing  this  insect 
access  to  our  dwellings. 

In  the  monthly  report  of  one  of  our  state  boards  of 
health  ^ is  graphically  described  a scene  familiar  to 
many  of  us: 

In  front  of  a grocery,  boxes  of  blackberries  were  exposed  for 
sale.  They  were  slightly  gray;  dust  and  swarms  of  flies  werer 
present.  On  the  sidewalk,  within  6 feet  of  the  berries,  some 
poor  diseased  mortal  had  spat,  and  this  sputum  was  circled  with 
flies.  A moment’s  observation  showed  that  they  flew  back  and 
forth,  not  only  between  the  berries  and  the  sputum,  but 
also  between  the  berries  and  the  gutter  filth  and  street  manure. 
But,  most  wonderful,  people  purchased  those  nasty  berries 
and  ate  them  raw. 

It  was  found  later  that  much  diarrhea  existed  in  the 
neighborhood,  caused  possibly  by  bacteria  transmitted 
by  these  very  flies. 

We  are  far  too  tolerant  of  the  presence  of  this  filthy 
and  dangerous  insect.  Its  breeding  grounds  should  be 
the  first  point  of  attack.  The  Bureau  of  Entomology 
of  the  Department  of  Agriculture  has  given  a great 
deal  of  attention  to  the  matter,  and  the  publications 
of  the  Bureau  should  be  consulted  for  full  data  on  the 
subject.  A summary  may  be  found  in  an  earlier 
bulletin  of  this  series.^  On  the  authority  of  this 
Bureau  it  is  stated  that  at  least  95  per  cent  of  the 
town  and  city  flies  are  bred  in  heaps  of  horse  manure 
left  in  roads,  fields,  and  stables.  The  remedy  proposed 

2 XJ,  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Bur.  Ent.  Bui.  78. 

3 Mo.  Bui.  Ind.  Bd.  Health,  10  (1908),  p.  64. 

^ U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Farmers’  Bui.  155. 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


79 


is  stricter  enforcement  of  the  laws  governing  the  clean- 
ing of  streets,  and  the  covering  of  all  manure  pits 
in  town  and  country,  with  occasional  spraying  with 
crude  petroleum.  The  manure  pile  and  the  barnyard 
are  the  fly-breeding  ground  of  the  farm. 

To  urge  the  housewife  to  work  for  public  measures 
to  insure  such  sanitary  reforms  is  not  asking  her  to 
go  too  far  afleld.  In  her  own  house  she  will  endeavor 
by  the  use  of  screens  and  fly  paper  and  similar  means  to 
protect  herself  from  this  dangerous  insect.  But  she 
will  wage  an  unequal  battle  unless  the  root  of  the  evil 
is  attacked,  and  this  can  only  be  done  by  removing 
manure  and  other  refuse,  that  form  the  breeding  places 
of  the  fly.  This  question  is  considered  in  the  govern- 
ment documents  referred  to. 

Briefly,  the  manure  should  be  collected  in  pits  where 
it  may  be  kept  covered,  or  where  it  may  be  treated  with 
kerosene  oil  or  some  other  material  which  kills  the  eggs 
and  larvsB.  It  is  of  still  greater  importance  that 
flies  should  never  have  access  to  human  excreta. 

Dust  in  its  Relation  to  Food 

What  is  the  composition  of  dust?  It  has  been  de- 
scribed as  a little  of  everything.  In  the  paved  streets 
of  cities  and  towns  earthy  particles  from  the  soil  are 
always  present.  While  street  dust  in  the  country 
is  largely  made  up  of  powdered  earth  of  the  road  mixed 
with  finely  ground  manure,  in  cities  its  lighter  particles 
are  principally  dried  horse  manure  with  more  or  less 
dried  powdered  sputum;  facts  sufl&ciently  disgusting 
to  give  us  a hearty  aversion  to  dust  as  an  accidental 
accompaniment  to  any  article  of  food.  The  dust  of 
roomxS  contains  earthy  particles,  minute  fragments  of 


80 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


clothing  fiber,  bits  of  abraded  skin,  and  pieces  worn 
away  from  walls,  floor,  and  furniture,  also  mold  spores, 
bacteria,  and  street  dust  in  greater  or  less  quantity, 
according  to  the  location. 

Every  precaution  should  be  taken  if  there  is  illness 
in  a house,  particularly  tuberculosis  or  other  infectious 
or  contagious  disease,  to  prevent  the  micro-organisms 
which  cause  the  disease  from  getting  into  the  air  and 
dust.  Dr.  Michael  Prudden  ^ gives  the  results  of 
attempts  to  count  the  bacteria  in  the  dust  of  New  York 
streets.  A culture  plate  of  Sf  inches  in  diameter  was 
exposed  for  5 minutes  with  the  following  results: 
Central  Park,  near  street,  collected  499  bacteria; 
Union  Square,  collected  214  bacteria;  large  dry  goods 
store,  collected  199  bacteria;  street  while  being  swept, 
collected  5,810  bacteria. 

The  daily  examination  of  the  milk  of  a certain  model 
dairy  revealed  suddenly  a great  increase  in  the  bacterial 
count.  The  physician  and  the  bacteriologist  examined 
the  premises  and  watched  every  process  in  a vain  effort 
to  determine  the  cause  until  it  was  noticed  that  the 
milk  pails  were  put  to  sun  where  the  dust  blew  on  them. 
This  cause  removed,  the  bacterial  count  returned  to 
normal. 

These  air  and  dust  bacteria  are  not  necessarily  harm- 
ful, but  where  large  numbers  are  present  there  are 
likely  to  be  among  them  those  which  produce  disease. 
A number  of  cases  of  illness  are  on  record  directly 
traceable  to  fruit,  but  it  is  difficult  to  determine  whether 
in  such  cases  infection  has  come  through  dust  settling 
on  the  food  or  through  direct  contact  of  the  fruit  with 
infected  human  beings. 

Better  market  inspection  is  needed,  better  protection 

^ Dust  and  Its  Dangers,  p.  26. 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


81 


for  food  from  dust  both  in  transit  and  when  on  sale, 
and  a more  rigid  carrying  out  of  existing  laws,  but, 
above  all,  a demand  for  clean  food  on  the  part  of  the 
buyer. 

Precautions  should  also  be  taken  against  dust  after 
the  food  is  delivered  at  the  house.  In  modern  dairying 
much  stress  is  laid  on  the  fact  that  sweeping  the 
stable  before  milking  fills  the  air  with  bacteria  which 
are  likely  to  infect  the  newly  drawn  milk.  The  same 
danger  arises  if  food  and  dishes  are  left  exposed  in 
kitchen  or  pantry  during  sweeping.  Tests  have  been 
made  to  determine  how  great  this  danger  really  is 
in  ordinary  household  practice,  and  it  has  been  found 
not  only  that  molds,  yeasts,  and  bacteria  are  much 
more  abundant  in  the  air  during  sweeping,  but  that 
those  stirred  up  by  the  sweeping  do  not  settle  back 
again  for  several  hours  afterward.  Evidently,  then, 
it  is  not  sufficient  to  cover  food  and  dishes  during 
the  actual  sweeping;  they  should  remain  protected 
for  some  hours.  Dusting  with  a dry  cloth  or  feather 
duster  also  stirs  the  micro-organisms  into  the  air; 
for  this  reason  a damp  cloth  to  which  they  will  stick 
is  greatly  preferable  for  cleaning  in  kitchen,  pantry, 
and  china  closet;  in  fact,  everywhere.  These  consider- 
ations also  show  the  great  sanitary  advantage  of 
modern  cleaning  devices,  of  which  a number  of  sorts 
are  now  on  the  market,  by  which  the  dirt  is  sucked 
through  tubes  into  suitable  receptacles.  Bits  of  damp 
newspaper  or  damp  sawdust  sprinkled  on  a floor  will 
hinder  dust  from  rising  when  the  room  is  swept,  but 
the  wooden  or  linoleum-covered  floor  of  a well-kept 
kitchen  and  pantry  should  furnish  very  little  dust. 
Larger  particles  should  be  lightly  brushed  up  and  the 
floor  washed  every  few  days. 


82 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Pet  Animals  in  the  Kitchen 

Another  possible  source  of  danger,  but  one  frequently 
overlooked,  would  seem  to  be  the  pet  animals  of  the 
household.  The  fur  of  even  the  most  cleanly  cats  and 
dogs  must  come  in  contact  with  many  things  which  we 
would  not  care  to  have  touch  our  food.  In  many  families 
where  the  animals  are  not  allowed  in  the  living  rooms 
for  fear  of  soiling  furniture  they  are  given  free  range 
in  kitchen  and  pantry,  where  the  chances  are  they 
will  leave  more  or  less  loose  hair  and  dirt  which  may 
find  its  way  to  food  utensils  or  to  food. 

A word  should  also  be  said  regarding  animal  pests. 
Rats  and  mice  are  regarded  by  all  housekeepers  as 
destructive  and  disagreeable  in  every  way,  and  no 
one  cares  to  eat  food  which  they  have  touched.  Traces 
of  the  presence  of  mice  may  sometimes  be  noted  in 
cereals  and  other  foods  sold  from  open  boxes  and 
similar  containers  in  markets  and  shops  which  are  care- 
less in  such  matters.  This  suggests  another  reason 
for  keeping  such  foods  in  glass  jars  or  tin  cans  or 
similar  receptacles  in  shops  and  in  the  pantry  and 
storeroom.  In  addition  to  the  food  which  they  destroy 
and  the  pecuniary  loss  involved,  rats  and  mice  are  a 
menace  to  health,  as  they  are  known  to  be  carriers  of 
disease.  Many  investigations  have  been  reported 
which  show  their  connection  with  the  spread  of  tri- 
chinosis and  with  bubonic  plague.  Data  summarized 
by  the  New  York  State  Department  of  Health  ^ 
indicate  that  the  rat  may  be  a large  factor  in 
transmitting  diphtheria  and  other  communicable  dis- 
eases. 

The  question  of  the  losses  due  to  rats  and  methods 

I Mo.  Bui.  N.  Y.  State  Dept.  Health,  n.  s.,  4 (1609),  No.  3,  p.  74. 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


83 


for  destroying  these  pests  are  considered  in  an  earlier 
bulletin  of  this  series.^ 

The  Food  Supply 

That  food  which  is  brought  into  the  home  shall  be 
clean  and  of  good  quality  is  a matter  of  the  greatest 
importance.  Vegetables  and  fruits  should  be  grown 
and  milk  and  other  dairy  products  produced  under 
the  most  sanitary  conditions  only,  and  all  the  products 
of  the  farm  and  garden  which  pass  through  the 
dealer^s  or  manufacturer's  hands  should  reach  the 
kitchen  in  a clean  and  wholesome  condition. 

Since  the  passage  of  the  National  Pure  Food  and 
Drugs  Act,  giving  to  the  United  States  Government  au- 
thority to  enforce  stringent  laws  against  the  adultera- 
tion and  misbranding  of  foods  which  enter  into  inter- 
state commerce,  and  the  more  rigid  enforcement  of 
similar  state  laws  which  regulate  these  matters  in  many 
of  the  States,  a great  burden  has  been  lifted  from  the 
shoulders  of  the  buyer.  This  legislation  has  enor- 
mously decreased  the  deceptions  formerly  practiced  by 
some  manufacturers,  and  since  it  insures  that  the  name 
and  description  on  bottle  and  package  shall  not  mis- 
represent the  contents,  the  buyer,  if  he  knows  what  he 
wants,  will  have  no  difficulty  in  obtaining  it,  while  the 
honest  manufacturers  and  dealers  (and  they  have 
without  doubt  always  outnumbered  the  others)  will 
also  be  protected.  This  matter  in  its  various  aspects  is 
taken  up  in  publications  of  the  Bureau  of  Chemistry^ 
of  this  Department. 

The  national  laws  regarding  the  inspection  of  meat 
and  meat  products  are  a further  and  very  important 

^ U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Farmers’  Bui.  369. 

2 u.  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Bur.  Chem.  Bui.  100;  Yearbook,  1907,  p.  321. 


84 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


protection  of  the  home  food  supply.  Publications 
of  the  Bureau  of  Animal  Industry  ^ of  this  Department 
deal  with  the  question  of  meat  inspection  in  relation  to 
wholesomeness  and  quality.  But  the  buyer  has  still 
to  choose  among  many  varieties  of  food  that  have  all 
met  the  requirements  of  the  law.  There  are,  for 
instance,  many  kinds  of  canned  vegetables  that  should 
be  carefully  compared  as  to  flavor  and  water  content. 
A 10-cent  can  of  tomatoes  that  consists  of  a little 
partly  ripened  pulp  swimming  in  water  may  be  much 
dearer  than  a 15-cent  can  with  a lower  water  content. 
The  writer  compared  two  cans  of  tomatoes  on  the  basis 
of  the  amount  of  pulp  of  a given  consistency  that  they 
yielded  on  straining.  As  the  15-cent  can  yielded  twice 
as  much  as  the  10-cent  can,  and  the  pulp  was  also  of  a 
better  flavor,  the  cheaper  can  should  really  have  sold 
for  7 or  8 cents  in  order  to  vie  with  the  other  in  real 
food  value. 

Clean  Shops  and  Markets  a Necessity 

The  buyer  as  well  as  the  merchant  is  responsible  for 
the  dirty  market  and  shop,  for  if  they  were  not  toler- 
ated by  the  purchaser  they  could  not  exist.  The  condi- 
tion of  the  food  when  it  enters  the  home  is  a matter 
of  the  utmost  importance  in  relation  to  the  subse- 
quent handling  and  use,  and  great  care  is  to  be  exer- 
cised in  choosing  clean  rather  than  dirty  places  in 
which  to  purchase  food.  As  yet  the  buyer  has  but 
little  protection  through  the  enforcement  of  law  regard- 
ing unhygienic  conditions  existing  in  places  where 
food  is  offered  for  sale.  Let  us  hope,  however,  that  this 
state  of  things  will  soon  mend.  In  some  States  the 
boards  of  health  are  already  active  in  the  inspection  of 

^ U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Bur.  Animal  Indus.  Circ.  125. 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


85 


dairies,  and  the  inspection  of  slaughterhouses  has  made 
great  progress  under  the  United  States  laws. 

Even  to  the  untrained  eye  the  markets  and  provision 
stores  are  often  dirty  places.  In  too  many  of  them  all 
manner  of  foods  are  exposed  to  dust  and  flies,  and  in  the 
long  list  may  be  found  many  that  are  ready  to  eat,’^ 
such  as  cooked  meats,  butter,  cheese,  bread,  cake,  figs, 
dates,  pickles,  and  candy.  In  boxes  on  the  floor, 
leaning  at  an  angle  against  the  counter,  or  on  the  pave- 
ment outside,  may  often  be  seen  green  vegetables, 
macaroni,  and  fresh  fruits  exposed  to  street  dust  which 
is  in  good  part  finely  ground  horse  manure  and  other 
filth.  A crate  of  berries  may  be  seen  on  a stand  out- 
side unprotected  from  dust  or  from  the  visits  of  count- 
less flies. 

There  are,  of  course,  many  market  men  and  grocers 
who  have  clean,  well-kept,  and  sanitary  places  of  busi- 
ness, but  the  care  of  the  market  stall  or  provision  store 
is  too  often  in  the  hands  of  people  who  are  not  only 
ignorant  of  the  hygienic  reasons  for  avoiding  dirt 
but  also  devoid  of  any  real  instinct  for  cleanliness, 
in  so  far,  at  least,  as  it  applies  to  commercial  matters. 
In  such  shops  the  meat  block  is  seldom  scraped  and 
scrubbed,  oysters  are  opened  into  dirty  pails,  and 
floors  and  shelves  are  infrequently  cleaned.  The 
grocer^s  assistant  may  come  in  directly  from  unhar- 
nessing the  horse  to  take  your  crackers  from  the 
barrel,  and  his  hands  are  not  washed  between  drawing 
a fowl  and  cutting  a beefsteak.  The  butcher  or  grocer^s 
apron  in  a case  recently  noted  served  some  of  the  uses 
of  a handkerchief  and  yet  it  was  in  almost  constant 
contact  with  food.  Such  topics  are  not  pleasant, 
Dut  conditions  will  not  be  mended  until  housekeepers 
take  notice  of  such  things,  protest  against  them,  and 


86 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


confine  their  buying  to  the  shops  which  are  run  by 
men  who  can  be  trusted  to  abolish  all  such  uncleanly 
ways. 

If  the  average  person  finds  these  conditions  and 
practices  offensive,  because  they  are  unclean  and 
unnecessary,  how  much  more  disturbed  are  those  who 
have  learned  that  in  addition  such  practices  involve 
bacterial  contamination  of  foods,  some  of  which  are 
eaten  raw. 

The  praise  and  blame  of  the  buyer  has  much  to  do 
with  keeping  up  the  standards  of  the  dealer,  and  it  is 
held  by  some  writers  that  the  growing  use  of  the  tele- 
phone in  ordering  the  dinner,  thus  bringing  about 
absentee  buying,  is  responsible  for  many  bad  condi- 
tions. 

If  buyers  will  think  of  these  things  and  patronize 
the  clean,  progressive,  and  sanitary  shops  in  preference 
to  the  others  it  will  do  much  to  insure  better  standards. 
It  is  the  opinion  of  many,  however,  that  the  law  is, 
or  should  be,  the  final  resource.  In  some  cities  asso- 
ciations of  housekeepers  have  joined  in  demanding 
better  hygienic  conditions  in  markets  and  have  ob- 
tained what  they  sought. 

Sanitation  of  Bakeries 

When  we  buy  a loaf  of  bread  in  a shop  whose  counters 
are  clean  and  whose  show  case  carries  a tempting  array 
of  cakes  and  rolls,  we  are  not  to  conclude,  as  a matter 
of  course,  that  the  bakery  at  the  rear  or  below  stairs 
would  also  meet  our  approval.  Not  one  customer  in  a 
thousand  sees  the  conditions  under  which  bread  and 
pastry  are  manufactured,  and  it  is  this  very  removal 
from  public  view  and  criticism  that  constitutes  the 
chief  difficulty  in  enforcing  existing  laws  for  the  proper 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


87 


construction  of  bakeries  and  for  sanitary  methods 
of  carrying  on  the  business. 

Not  long  ago  one-half  the  bread  consumed  in  London 
came  from  cellar  bakeries,  and  while  it  is  true  that  a 
cellar  bakery  may  be  hygienic,  the  chances  are  strongly 
against  it. 

There  are,  of  course,  very  many  sanitary  and  clean 
bakeries  and  workmen  who  are  careful  in  their  work 
and  neat  in  habits,  but  the  reverse  condition  too  often 
prevails.  One  London  bakery  is  described  in  a recent 
report  as  30  feet  long  by  7 or  8 in  width,  with  bags  of 
flour  ranged  on  one  side  and  the  dough  tubs  placed 
along  the  other.  In  the  same  room  were  found  open 
sanitary  arrangements,  poor  sewerage  leaking  out  foul 
gases,  a defective  oven  letting  out  fumes  of  coal  gas, 
open  cracks  in  the  ceiling  through  which  sifted  dust 
from  the  store  above,  and  the  stifling  air  was  unchanged 
by  ventilation. 

In  one  of  our  Northern  States  a few  years  ago  health 
inspectors  examined  547  bakeries  in  25  towns  and  3 
cities  and  reported  that  from  a sanitary  standpoint 
270  were  distinctly  bad,  222  not  especially  bad,  44 
satisfactory,  and  11  worthy  of  especial  commendation.^ 
Similar  conditions  have  been  found  in  other  localities.^ 

Most  difiicult  to  change  are  the  personal  habits  of 
the  workmen  where  they  are  careless  and  lacking  in 
cleanliness. 

In  some  bakeries  floors  and  even  vats  were  scrubbed 
but  once  a year;  in  some  there  was  no  provision  made 
for  washing  the  hands. 

From  such  bakeries  most  persons  do  not  care  to  buy 
their  bread,  if  they  are  willing  that  men  should  be 

1 Mass.  State  Bd.  Health  Rpt.,  38  (1906),  p.  607. 

2 Bien.  Rpt.  Bur.  Labor  and  Indus.  Statis.  Wis.,  13  (1908),  pt.  5. 


88 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


allowed  to  labor  in  such  surroundings.  It  should  not 
be  forgotten  that  the  buyer  of  food  has  many  oppor- 
tunities to  help  in  raising  standards  that  will  affect 
the  whole  community.  It  is  quite  within  the  rights 
of  the  buyer  to  insist  on  inspecting  the  place  where 
the  food  is  prepared,  but  it  is  better  to  accompany 
the  official  inspector.  Some  of  the  bakeries  will  be 
found  above  reproach,  and  these  are  the  ones  which 
the  careful  housewife  should  patronize. 

The  inspection  of  bakeries  is  provided  for  by  legis- 
lative enactments  in  some  cities  and  States  and  is  an 
important  hygienic  measure.  Great  improvements 
have  been  made  in  recent  years  in  the  construction  of 
bakeries  and  in  bread-making  machinery  and  other 
equipment,  all  of  which  makes  for  more  sanitary  condi- 
tions. It  is  encouraging  to  note  that  progressive  bakers 
realize  the  importance  of  cleanliness  and  sanitation 
and  manifest  a marked  interest  in  all  that  pertains  to 
such  matters.  As  an  instance  of  this  may  be  men- 
tioned the  work  of  the  bakers’  institute  in  one  of  the 
Western  States.^ 

It  has  been  proposed  that  a law  should  require  that 
the  loaf  of  bread,  as  soon  as  baked,  should  be  put  in 
a paper  bag  and  thus  handled  and  transported,  but  it 
is  sometimes  difficult  to  carry  out  reforms  of  this  kind 
if  they  conflict  with  the  prejudices  of  the  buyer.  A 
baker  in  one  of  the  large  cities  whose  methods  were 
known  to  the  writer  started  this  method  but  did  not 
succeed  in  popularizing  it.  People  wanted  to  see  the 
bread,”  and  it  entailed  an  expense  which  the  buyer 
was  not  willing  to  meet  and  which  the  baker  thought 
that  his  profits  would  not  warrant.  Other  cities 
or  bakeries  have  without  doubt  had  a different  experi- 

1 Bien.  Rpt.  Bur.  Labor  and  Indus.  Statis.  [Wis.],  13  (1906-7),  pt.  5,  p.  719. 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


89 


ence.  At  any  rate,  bread  or  rolls  thus  wrapped  in 
paper,  often  of  a transparent  nature,  are  served  in 
some  restaurants  and  hotels  and  on  some  dining  cars. 

The  Quality  of  Meats 

In  order  to  become  a good  judge  of  meats  it  is  very 
helpful  to  have  a few  lessons  from  an  experienced  buyer. 
The  different  cuts  will  thus  be  easily  learned,  but  the 
quality  of  the  meat  depends  on  so  many  factors,  as 
the  age  of  the  animal,  the  breed,  and  the  method  of 
fattening,  that  it  is  easy  to  make  mistakes  in  choosing, 
and  the  buyer  will  often  be  wise  in  accepting  informa- 
tion from  the  dealer,  if  he  is  one  who  prides  himself  on 
keeping  first-class  meats.  Having  found  such  a one, 
the  customer  who  wishes  to  save  time  and  money  will 
continue  to  buy  of  him.  The  very  large  amount 
of  meat  which  some  housekeepers  provide  is  not  neces- 
sary. In  general  it  is  better  to  use  a reasonable  amount 
of  that  which  is  in  prime  condition  rather  than  to  econo- 
mize on  the  quality.  The  meat  is  easily  supplemented 
by  other  dishes,  and  the  whole  meal  will  thus  be  better 
balanced  than  would  be  the  case  if  a larger  amount 
of  inferior  meat  were  provided.  Although  not  generally 
understood,  it  is  just  as  important  that  the  cheaper  cuts 
of  meat,  as  well  as  the  dearer  ones,  should  come  from  a 
well-fattened  animal. 

The  True  Price  of  Meats 

There  is  an  apparent  and  a true  price  of  meats,  a 
fact  that  is  not  always  considered.  It  may  be  more 
economical  to  pay  15  cents  for  a cut  of  clear  meat  than 
^ cents  for  one  that  contains  nearly  half  its  weight  of 
bone,  sinew,  and  fat.  The  apparent  price  of  chicken 
may  be  20  cents  a pound,  but  its  real  price  will  often 


90 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


be  50  cents,  when  the  weight  of  head,  legs,  entrails, 
crop,  and  bones  is  taken  into  account. 

Poultry 

There  is  much  discussion  regarding  the  merits  of 
drawn  and  undrawn  poultry.  Most  dealers  contend 
that  in  warm  weather  a fowl  which  has  had  entrails 
and  crop  removed  spoils  much  more  quickly,  because 
of  the  extent  of  cut  surface  exposed,  than  does  undrawn 
poultry.  The  writer  found  in  a large  city  market  but 
one  dealer  who  kept  drawn  poultry,  and  he  said  that  he 
could  not  do  so  except  for  the  fact  that  steady  cus- 
tomers took  all  of  his  stock,  so  that  nothing  was  left 
on  his  hands.  The  extra  price  that  he  charged  per 
pound  was  only  sufficient  to  make  up  for  the  loss  in 
weight. 

The  Massachusetts  State  Board  of  Health  ^ has 
recently  studied  this  question  and  found  that  if  the  en- 
trails were  so  drawn  that  none  of  their  contents  were 
spilled  inside  the  body,  the  bird  kept  better  than  in  the 
undrawn  state.  The  work  of  the  Bureau  of  Chemistry 
on  this  subject  is  referred  to  later. 

It  is  greatly  to  the  housekeeper’s  advantage  to  buy 
fresh,  well-drawn  poultry,  for  not  only  is  the  flavor 
injured  by  the  unclean  practice  of  allowing  the  entrails 
to  remain  in  the  body,  but  it  is  thought  to  favor  the 
development  of  ptomaines.  It  has  been  shown  that 
after  death  the  intestinal  juices  with  their  contained 
bacteria  are  able  to  pass  through  the  walls  of  the  intes- 
tines into  the  muscle  fiber,  and  this  process  goes  on 
even  though  the  fowl  is  kept  at  a very  low  tempera- 
ture. In  some  States  cold-storage  fowls  are  required 
by  law  to  be  sold  as  such. 

' Mass.  State  Bd.  Health  Rpt.,  39  (1907),  pp.  265,  287. 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


91 


Fish 

Regarding  fish,  one  quality  is  so  all-important  that 
the  buyer  is  warranted  in  giving  the  order:  Any 

kind  that  is  fresh. The  dealer  knows  what  he  is 
selling.  The  buyer  may  not  be  able  to  discover  / 
from  lack  of  experience  in  the  effect  of  ice  and  cold 
storage.  It  is  safe  to  rely  on  a good  dealer  if  the  buyer 
is  a good  judge  of  fish  when  it  comes  on  the  table  and 
then  holds  the  dealer  strictly  to  account.  Fish  that 
has  been  kept  for  a week  or  more  on  ice  has  lost  its 
distinctive  fiavor,  although  it  may  not  be  spoiled. 

It  has  what  the  cook  calls  a woolly  taste.  Shellfish 
form  a delicious  addition  to  the  diet,  but  if  they  have 
been  grown  or  fattened  in  sewage-infected  water  they 
may  carry  disease  germs.  As  it  is  in  general  impossible 
to  learn  their  origin,  the  rule  of  never  eating  them  in 
the  raw  state  is  adopted  by  many.  The  practice  of 
fattening  or  fioating  oysters  in  fresh  or  in  brackish 
water  robs  them  of  much  of  their  fine  fiavor,  and 
since  the  most  accessible  supply  of  such  water  is  at 
the  outlet  of  streams,  and  as  such  streams  are  fre- 
quently polluted  by  sewage,  many  persons  believe  that 
this  practice  should  be  forbidden  by  law. 

In  many  European  cities  fish  are  sold  alive,  the  cus- 
tomer selecting  his  fish  as  it  swims  in  a tank.  It  would 
seem  that  this  excellent  method  might  be  used  in  our 
own  cities,  especially  those  situated  on  the  seaboard, 
at  least  for  customers  who  are  fastidious  and  who  are 
willing  to  pay  an  extra  price  for  special  articles  when 
it  is  warranted. 

Vegetables 

Only  those  who  have  been  accustomed  to  eating  green 
vegetables  fresh  from  the  garden  realize  in  what  poor 
condition  are  many  of  the  vegetables  sold  to  the  city 


92  ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 

buyer.  Some  varieties,  as  green  peas,  are  so  delicate 
in  flavor  that  even  a few  hours’  removal  from  the  vines 
brings  about  a change.  Indeed,  the  market  gardener 
has  been  obliged  to  develop  the  keeping  qualities  of 
vegetables  and  fruit  at  the  expense  of  flavor. 

If  lightly  packed  and  transported  only  a short 
distance,  the  deterioration  in  most  vegetables  is  not 
noticeable,  but  if  closely  packed  for  any  length  of  time 
changes  due  to  the  action  of  enzyms  or  “ ferments  ” 
normally  present  in  the  living  tissue  take  place,  with  a 
consequent  loss  of  flavor. 

In  green  corn,  for  example,  the  ferments  present 
begin  immediately  to  destroy  the  contained  sugar, 
and  thus  the  corn  is  robbed  of  flavor  very  shortly 
after  picking.  These  changes  are  often  accompanied 
by  changes  in  appearance  by  which  they  may  be  de- 
tected, especially  in  green  corn  and  in  peas  and  beans. 
Pods  inclosing  peas  should  be  crisp  and  plump.  String 
beans  should  not  have  a faded  look  or  any  suspicion 
of  toughness  or  limpness  when  broken.  Green  corn 
should  show  fresh  husks  or  “ shucks  ” of  good  color, 
not  wilted  or  partly  dry,  nor  lacking  the  “bright  ” 
look  of  the  fresh  ear.  Cabbages  should  be  crisp  and 
bright  of  color.  Cucumbers,  turnips,  and  carrots 
should  be  firm  to  the  touch.  Lettuce,  if  of  the  headed 
variety,  should  have  firm,  bleached  hearts,  showing 
no  trace  of  the  rusty  red  look  that  announces  long 
keeping.  It  will  keep  its  freshness  longer  if  the  root 
is  left  on. 

Some  market  men  and  grocers  grow  part  or  all  of  their 
own  vegetables,  and  make  a practice  of  having  only 
fresh  ones  of  good  quality  in  stock,  though  the  com- 
bination of  market  gardener  and  grocer  is,  in  the  nature 
of  things,  not  common.  A much  larger  number  of 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


93 


market  men  and  grocers  are  very  particular  to  procure 
for  sale  only  fresh  vegetables,  and  here  again  the  dis- 
criminating buyer  will  patronize  the  dealer  who  is  to 
be  trusted. 

When  housekeepers  buy  vegetables  of  peddlers,  they 
should  patronize,  if  possible,  the  grower  rather  than 
the  huckster.  The  grower  must  sell  out  and  go  home, 
and  it  is  to  the  huckster  that  he  sells  his  surplus, 
and  this  surplus  is  often  so  manipulated  as  to  sell  for 
fresh  goods  until  the  next  market  day.  The  huckster 
in  his  off  hours  may  often  be  seen  trimming  off  the 
wilted  outside  leaves  of  celery,  cabbage,  and  lettuce  and 
giving  a fresh  surface  to  the  stem,  and  sometimes  rinsing 
or  sprinkling  the  lettuce  with  water  not  infrequently 
far  from  clean.  The  beets  which  were  left  over,  after 
losing  little  by  little  their  tops,  are  sold  by  measure  to 
whoever  will  buy. 

It  may  be  said  in  general  that  when  a given  vegetable 
is  cheapest  then  it  is  best,  for  all  conditions  are  then 
favorable  to  its  development.  Potatoes  should  be 
bought  in  a fully  ripened  state,  not  too  young,  nor  is 
it  necessary  to  eat  them  when  they  have  become  too 
old,  as  it  is  easy  to  find  substitutes  such  as  boiled 
rice,  hominy,  and  similar  foods. 

Veget  bles  of  medium  size,  neither  very  large  nor 
very  small,  will  be  generally  found  to  be  the  best,  and 
most  housekeepers  consider  them  the  most  economical, 
as  they  may  be  cooked  and  served  with  least  waste. 

The  Storage  of  Food 

In  earlier  times  a larger  proportion  of  the  food  was 
stored  at  home  than  is  now  the  case.  Even  in  cities 
and  towns  supplies  were  commonly  purchased  in  bulk. 
Owing  to  the  improvement  in  transportation  facilities 


94 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


and  to  other  changed  conditions  storage  of  food  outside 
the  home  has  developed  into  an  enormous  industry. 
As  was  the  case  with  markets  and  food  manufactories 
the  storage  plant  is  a matter  in  which  the  housewife  is 
interested,  as  it  has  to  do  with  the  character  of  the  food 
which  comes  into  the  home. 

Commercial  Cold  Storage 

Cold  storage  as  applied  to  whole  carcasses  of  beef 
and  mutton  has  been  of  great  service  to  the  buyer.  By 
its  aid  prices  are  equalized  and  we  are  furnished  even 
in  summer  with  meat  that  has  been  made  tender  by 
keeping. 

The  service  rendered  by  cold  storage  of  fish  and 
poultry  is  not  so  thoroughly  well  established.  The 
subject  is  being  carefully  investigated  by  experts. 
Apparently,  if  the  process  is  carried  out  in  the  best 
manner  and  the  goods  not  kept  too  long  m storage,  the 
cold-storage  fish  and  poultry  are  wholesome.  From 
the  results  of  an  investigation  of  the  quality,  flavor, 
and  wholesomeness  of  cold-storage  turkeys,  drawn  and 
undrawn,  the  changes  brought  about  by  storage,  and 
similar  matters  carried  on  for  the  Buffalo,  N.  Y., 
Department  of  Health,^  the  conclusion  was  drawn 
that  under  proper  regulation  cold  storage  can  be  safely 
employed  for  poultry,  but  that  regulation  is  essential. 
The  question  of  the  effects  of  cold  storage  on  the  char- 
acter of  meat  and  other  food  products,  the  compara- 
tive merits  of  drawn  and  undrawn  poultry,  and  similar 
matters  are  being  investigated  by  the  Bureau  of  Chem- 
istry of  this  Department  and  are  discussed  in  its 
publications.^ 

1 Buffalo  [Dept.  Health]  Sanit.  Bui.,  n.  ser.,  2 (1909),  No.  3,  p.  1. 

2 U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.  Yearbook,  1907,  p.  197;  Bur.  Chem.  Bui.,  115. 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


95 


With  all  cold  storage  foods  it  is  important  that  there 
shall  not  be  a long  interval  between  removal  from  stor- 
age and  cooking,  and  this  is  particularly  the  case  with 
poultry  and  fish.  Foods  that  have  been  frozen  and 
then  thawed  seem  to  furnish  particularly  good  ground 
for  bacterial  growth,  or  what  we  call  spoiling.^’ 

Storage  of  fruits  and  vegetables,  which  is  coming 
more  and  more  into  use,  gives  us  many  out-of-season 
articles.  The  same  is  true  to  a great  extent  of  turkeys 
and  other  domestic  poultry,  for  food  of  this  kind  is 
largely  of  seasonal  production,  and  cold  storage  seems 
to  be  the  only  method  by  which  the  fresh  material  can 
be  kept  for  a long  period  for  market  purposes.  In 
the  case  of  many  sorts  of  cold-storage  fruits  and  vege- 
tables it  is  the  common  opinion  that  their  quality  is 
hardly  as  good  as  that  of  fresh  ones.  On  the  other 
hand,  if  handled  under  the  best  conditions  much  of  the 
cold-storage  goods,  such  as  apples  and  other  fruits, 
is  of  excellent  quality.  Indeed,  it  is  diflSicult  to  imagine 
how  housekeeping  could  be  carried  on,  particularly 
in  large  cities  and  towns  under  modern  conditions  of 
home  construction  (with  limited  storeroom,  etc.) 
without  the  cold-storage  industry.  For  this  reason 
it  is  all  the  more  important  that  the  housewife  should 
be  informed  as  to  the  best  ways  to  handle  such  com- 
modities, and  should  use  her  influence  to  insure  the 
best  conditions  in  the  cold-storage  industry. 

The  Storeroom  in  the  Home 

The  storeroom  for  food  may  be  the  tiny  closet  of 
the  flat  dweller  in  a city  or  the  cellar  of  the  village  or 
farm  house.  In  the  last  case  it  often  has  a commercial 
as  well  as  a household  value,  since  it  keeps  fruits  and 


96 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


vegetables  in  good  condition  until  marketed,  as  well  as 
until  they  are  needed  for  the  home  table;  but  in  any 
case,  it  should  be  cool,  dry,  clean,  and  regularly  aired. 

It  may  be  well  to  describe  a cellar  that  is  badly 
built  and  carelessly  kept,  in  order  to  see  what  should  be 
exactly  opposite  conditions. 

. Such  a cellar  may  be  dug  in  wet  ground,  without 
sufficient  drainage  of  the  subsoil;  it  may  even  be  in 
contact  with  open  sewers  or  drains,  which  have  been 
proved  in  certain  cases  to  contain  specific  organisms 
capable  of  producing  disease.  In  many  cases  the  cellar 
built  against  an  earth  wall  is  not  protected  from  damp- 
ness by  a layer  of  moisture-proof  cement,  and  the  water 
may  stand  in  drops  on  its  surface.  Again,  it  may  be 
dug  to  such  an  extent  below  the  surface  of  the  ground 
that  the  windows  are  wholly  inadequate  for  lighting 
and  ventilation. 

It  may  have  an  earthen  fioor,  or  one  of  badly  matched 
boards  impossible  to  keep  clean.  It  will  probably 
have  a musty  smell,  proof  positive  that  mold  plants 
are  there  and  ready  to  attack  any  fruit  and  vegetables 
stored  on  its  shelves  or  in  its  dirty  bins. 

If,  in  addition  to  this  faulty  construction,  the  cellar 
is  badly  kept,  bits  of  rotting  fruit  and  vegetables  being 
left  about,  not  only  will  these  conditions  favor  the 
spoiling  of  food,  but  they  may  prove  injurious  to  the 
health  of  the  family  living  above  stairs. 

A cellar  that  meets  modern  requirements  must  be  dug 
in  ground  that  is  well  drained  either  naturally  or  by 
artificial  means.  It  must  be  remembered  that  a cellar 
is  not,  first  of  all,  a storeroom;  it  is  an  essential  part 
of  a well-planned  house,  especially  necessary  in  our 
Northern  States,  in  helping  to  keep  an  equable  tem- 
perature ; and  if  its  walls  and  fioor  are  what  they  should 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


97 


be  it  prevents  dampness  and  ground  air  from  rising 
into  the  house. 

If  the  house  is  set  close  to  the  ground  the  cellar  win- 
dows must  be  wide  enough  to  compensate  for  their  lack 
in  height,  and  must  be  set  opposite  each  other  in  order 
to  insure  good  draft.  A method  that  is  sometimes  used 
is  to  dig  out  a space  in  front  of  a window,  making  a 
little  area  which,  laid  in  either  brick  or  stone,  may  be 
whitewashed  and  reflect  light  into  the  cellar.  This 
method  also  allows  of  sinking  the  cellar  window  deeper 
and  obtaining  better  ventilation. 

This  matter  and  related  topics  are  considered  in  a 
recent  volume  ^ on  farm  home  construction  and  similar 
questions. 

The  walls  and  floor  of  this  cellar  should  be  laid  in 
Portland  cement  to  keep  out  moisture,  and  the  walls 
and  ceiling  should  be  whitewashed  twice  a year.  Even 
if  a cellar  is  kept  very  clean,  the  earthy  smell  of  vege- 
tables that  arises  from  it  when  it  is  well  stocked  is  not 
agreeable — another  reason  for  good  ventilation  and 
frequent  airing.  A separate  room  may  be  partitioned 
off  from  the  cellar  in  one  corner  for  storage  purposes. 
This  can  then  be  kept  darker  than  one  would  wish 
to  keep  the  rest  of  the  cellar.  Such  a room  must,  of 
course,  be  aired  now  and  then.  In  this  storage  room 
should  be  placed  a movable  safe  with  wire-netting 
sides,  and  a swinging  shelf;  and  broad  shelves  should  be 
built  high  enough  so  that  barrels  may  be  shoved  under 
them. 

The  writer  once  saw  in  Holland  a cellar  that  met  every 
possible  requirement  of  hygiene.  The  floor  and  side 
walls  were  of  closely  matched  tiles  laid  in  cement, 
making  it  as  tight  as  a dish  and  as  easily  cleaned. 

1 The  Healthful  Farmhouse.  Boston,  1906. 


98 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


It  was  not  large,  but  its  wall  space  was  so  utilized  that 
it  furnished  ample  storage  facilities  for  a large  restau- 
rant. 

Hot-weather  Storage 

The  storage  of  food  in  cold  weather  is  a comparatively 
simple  matter,  since  the  low  temperature,  which  is  a 
prime  requisite  for  checking  the  growth  of  bacteria 
and  molds,  is  furnished  by  nature  and  we  have  only 
to  guard  against  freezing.  The  keeping  of  perish- 
able foods  in  warm  weather  is  best  accomplished  by 
artificially  cooled  air. 

Ice  Machine 

On  a large  dairy  farm  or  wherever  the  household  is 
large  enough  to  warrant  it  an  ice  machine  may  be  used 
which  is  driven  by  an  electric  motor  of  suitable  horse- 
power, or  by  a gas  or  some  other  suitable  engine,  which 
operates  a brine  tank  and  furnishes  very  cold  dry  air 
to  the  ice  chest.  Such  clean,  dry  air  at  a constant 
low  temperature  furnished  from  outside  is  so  superior 
a method  of  cooling  food  that  the  ordinary  ice  chest 
seems  a poor  thing  in  comparison,  though  in  the  ma- 
jority of  homes  it  is  the  only  resort. 

Ice  Chests 

There  are  many  varieties  of  ice  chest  or  refrigerator, 
all  built  on  one  of  two  general  plans.  In  one  kind  both 
ice  and  food  are  kept  in  one  large  compartment.  In 
the  other  the  ice  is  placed  in  a top  compartment,  below 
which  are  cupboards  for  the  food;  the  principle  here 
utilized  is  that  cold  air  seeks  a lower  level  and  that  the 
air  cooled  by  the  melting  ice  will  sink  to  the  shelves 
below.  It  probably  better  utilizes  a given  amount  of 
ice,  for  the  further  reason  that  the  ice  compartment 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME  99 

may  remain  tightly  closed  except  when  being  filled. 
In  both  cases  the  air  space  between  the  outside  wall 
and  the  zinc  lining  is  filled  with  some  nonconducting 
material,  as  cork  or  asbestos. 

It  is  of  great  convenience  to  have  the  ice  chest  built 
against  the  outer  wall  of  kitchen  or  pantry,  so  that  it 
may  be  filled  from  the  outside  by  means  of  a small  door 
cut  for  that  purpose.  In  such  a case  it  is  of  course 
advisable  to  choose  a wall  on  which  there  is  little 
or  no  sunshine.  The  ice  box  may  also  be  drained  by  a 
pipe  leading  to  the  outside  and  then  properly  cared  for, 
thus  saving  much  labor  in  the  emptying  of  pans.  It 
is  not  considered  safe  to  connect  it  with  the  house  sewer 
because  of  the  danger  of  sewer  gases  backing  into 
it,  even  if  a good  trap  is  provided. 

Care  of  Ice  Chests 

If  on  a warm  summer  day  you  put  your  hand  into  an 
ice  box  well  filled  with  ice  you  may  think  that  the  tem- 
perature is  very  low,  and  yet  it  is  in  all  probability 
nearer  50°  than  40°  F.  As  low  a temperature  as  40°  or 
45°  is  only  to  be  obtained  in  a very  well-constructed 
box  with  a large  receptacle  for  ice,  and  then  only  for 
a short  time  after  it  is  filled.  A box  that  maintains 
but  60°  is,  however,  very  useful  in  keeping  food  from 
day  to  day. 

The  ice  box,  no  matter  how  well  cooled,  is  and  must 
be  damp,  and  dampness  is  one  of  the  requirements  for 
bacterial  growth.  It  must  be  remembered,  also,  that 
some  varieties  of  bacteria  grow  at  low  temperatures. 
Therefore  the  interior  of  an  ice  chest  should  be  wiped 
every  day  with  a dry  cloth  and  once  a week  everything 
should  be  removed,  so  that  sides,  shelves,  and  drain 
may  be  thoroughly  scalded.  The  water  must  be 


100 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


actually  boiling  when  it  is  poured  in,  and  the  process 
repeated  several  times. 

In  the  small  ice  chests,  where  all  the  ice  space  must 
be  utilized,  the  cube  of  ice  will  be  a tight  fit,  and  it  is 
difficult  to  lower  it  to  the  grating.  If  the  ice  is  put  on  a 
piece  of  stout  cloth  whose  ends  are  long  enough  to  reach 
above  the  top,  it  may  be  lifted  by  these  ends  and 
easily  deposited  in  place.  The  cloth  folded  about  it 
serves  also  to  protect  the  ice  from  the  heat  of  the 
outside  air,  and  holds  any  bits  of  dirt  that  may  have 
been  frozen  into  the  ice,  thus  preventing  them  from 
settling  to  the  floor  of  the  box  or  lodging  in  the  drain 
pipe.  The  cloth  should  be  scalded  after  each  using. 
A folded  newspaper  laid  on  the  floor  of  the  one-com- 
partment ice  box  serves  the  same  purpose  as  to  clean- 
liness. It  must  be  remembered  that  refrigerator  ice 
is  often  dirty,  and  that  it  may  bring  in  putrefactive 
or  even  typhoid  bacilli,  for  most  bacteria  are  resistant 
to  low  temperature  and  are  not  destroyed  by  freezing. 
On  this  account  no  food  should  be  brought  into  direct 
contact  with  it,  nor  should  it  be  put  into  drinking  water, 
unless  its  purity  is  above  suspicion. 

All  cooked  food  should  be  cooled  as  soon  as  possible 
before  being  placed  in  the  ice  box.  Butter  may  be 
kept  from  taking  up  the  flavors  of  other  food  by 
keeping  it  in  a tightly  covered  receptacle.  Milk 
requires  more  access  of  air,  but  in  a clean  ice  box  in 
which  no  strong-smelling  food  is  kept  milk  should 
remain  uninjured  in  flavor  for  12  to  24  hours.  If 
vegetables  or  other  foods  of  pronounced  odor  are  kept 
in  glass  jars  with  covers  or  in  covered  earthenware 
receptacles  there  will  be  fewer  odors  to  be  communi- 
cated. Portions  of  canned  food  should  never  be 
put  into  the  ice  box  in  the  tin  can.  Such  food  does 


CABE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


101 


not  of  necessity  develop  a poisonous  product,  as  has 
sometimes  been  claimed,  but  experiments  show  that 
ptomaines  are  particularly  liable  to  develop  in  such 
cases.  Casting  out  this  somewhat  remote  possibility, 
the  tinny  taste  acquired  by  such  keeping  is  enough 
to  condemn  the  practice. 

Foods  that  are  to  be  eaten  raw,  such  as  lettuce  and 
celery,  should  be  carefully  cleaned  before  being  placed- 
in  the  ice  box,  and  may  with  advantage  be  wrapped 
in  a clean,  damp  cloth.  If  they  are  to  be  kept  for  some 
days  they  should,  however,  be  put  in  without  remov- 
ing the  roots,  the  further  precaution  being  taken  to 
wrap  them  carefully  in  clean  paper  or  to  put  them  into 
grocers^  bags. 

Water  for  Cooling  Food 

There  are  many  ways  of  lowering  temperature  by 
utilizing  the  fact  that  water  when  evaporating  draws 
off  heat  from  surrounding  objects*.  If  a pitcher  of 
water  be  wrapped  with  a cloth  which  is  kept  saturated 
and  exposed  to  a draft  of  air  the  temperature  of  the 
water  in  the  pitcher  will  be  lowered  by  several  de- 
grees. 

A receptacle  in  which  food  is  placed  may  be  cooled 
in  the  same  way.  Take  a wooden  box  with  a sound 
bottom  made  of  one  piece  and  invert  it.  Tack  a layer 
of  cotton  batting  over  it  and  cover  with  some  coarse 
cloth.  It  is  now  to  be  kept  wet  by  some  contrivance 
that  will  furnish  an  automatic  drip.  The  writer  used 
for  this  purpose  an  old  aluminum  pan  which  had  in  it 
a half  dozen  very  tiny  holes,  and  when  filled  with  water 
it  supplied  just  enough  water  to  keep  the  cloth  satu- 
rated. Under  this  box  lettuce  in  cold  water,  a cold 
pudding,  a pat  of  butter,  and  other  food  were  placed 


102 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


and  kept  in  good  condition.  A pan  of  milk  lowered 
into  another  of  cold  water  is  kept  from  souring  many 
hours  longer  than  if  it  was  unprotected  from  the  sur- 
rounding air.  Spring  water  of  low  temperature  is 
used  by  many  farmer’s  wives  to  keep  milk  and  butter 
cool,  and  a “ spring  house  ” is  a common  thing  on  many 
farms,  though  less  depended  upon  than  was  the  case 
before  ice  houses,  refrigerators  and  ice  chests  became  so 
common. 

It  is  also  an  old-fashioned  practice  to  lower  foods  in 
covered  pails  into  the  well  and  suspend  them  not  far 
above  the  surface  of  the  water. 

Winter  Storage  of  Food 

In  the  Southern  States  storage  problems  are  not  the 
same  as  in  regions  where  the  winter  is  severe,  and  many 
roots  and  other  vegetables  may  be  left  in  the  ground 
with  little  or  no  protection,  while  crops  may  even  be 
grown  throughout  the  year,  thus  doing  away  largely 
with  the  need  of  winter  storage.  In  the  greater  part 
of  the  United  States,  however,  the  problem  of  keeping 
at  least  a part  of  the  food  supply  through  the  cold 
season  is  an  important  one,  and  the  more  important 
the  longer  the  winter  season. 

The  farmer  will  without  question  keep  in  cellar  or 
storeroom  or  outside  cave  or  pit  the  surplus  of  what'is 
raised  on  the  farm.  Whether  it  is  wise  for  others  to 
buy  food  in  large  quantities  and  store  it  for  winter 
use  depends  on  whether  it  can  be  bought  at  a sufficiently 
low  price  to  pay  for  the  care  and  risk  that  the  keeping 
entails,  as  well  as  on  market  facilities,  the  amount  of 
storage  space  available,  and  similar  factors.  But 
the  storing  of  smaller  quantities  of  food  is  both  con- 


CAKE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


103 


venient  and  economical  and  is  an  absolute  necessity 
for  families  who  live  at  a distance  from  market. 

A Window  Storage  Box 

The  dweller  in  a small  apartment  who  has  no  cool 
cellar  in  which  to  store  perishable  articles  may  find 
an  outside  window  box  useful  in  winter. 

A carpenter  may  be  hired  to  construct  a box  that  will 
exactly  fit  outside  a kitchen  window,  if  possible  on  the 
north  side.  Such  a device  has  been  described  in  a num- 
ber of  books  and  bulletins.^  It  should  come  halfway 
up  the  lower  sash  and  contain  two  deep  shelves,  and 
when  the  sash  is  raised  the  contents  of  these  shelves 
are  easily  accessible.  In  freezing  weather  the  sash 
may  be  left  up,  and  thus  the  box  becomes  a part  of  the 
warmed  room.  A sash  curtain  will  conceal  it  from  the 
room.  Such  a window  box  is  often  fully  as  great  a 
convenience  in  the  farm  or  village  home  as  in  the  city 
flat. 

A more  inexpensive  way  is  to  hang  a neat  wooden 
box,  well  cleaned,  on  strong  nails  or  spikes  outside  the 
window.  A heavier  box  may  be  supported  on  brackets. 
The  box  should  have  a tight-fitting  hinged  lid  and  be 
lined  with  asbestos  paper  to  equalize  extremes  of  tem- 
perature, while  a lining  of  oilcloth  will  admit  of  easy 
cleaning.  A shoe  box  would  be  good  for  this  purpose. 
It  might  be  painted  the  color  of  the  house. 

( 

The  Keeping  of  Vegetables,  Fruits,  and  Meats 

The  following  hints  regarding  the  keeping  of  differ- 
ent kinds  of  food  may  be  found  useful: 

^ Cornell  Reading  Course  for  Farmers’  Wives,  1.  ser.,  No.  1,  p.  6 — Farm  House 
and  Garden;  No.  3,  p.  52 — Housekeeping;  also  Reading  Lesson  Sup.  1, 


104 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Potatoes  are  kept  without  difficulty  in  a cool,  dry, 
and  dark  place.  Sprouts  should  not  be  allowed  to  grow 
in  the  spring. 

Such  roots  as  carrots,  parsnips,  and  turnips  remain 
plump  and  fresh  if  placed  in  earth  or  sand-filled  boxes 
on  the  cellar  floor. 

Sweet  potatoes  may  be  kept  until  January  if  cleaned, 
dried,  and  packed  in  chaff  so  that  they  will  not  touch 
each  other. 

Pumpkins  and  squash  must  be  thoroughly  ripe  and 
mature  to  keep  well.  They  should  be  dried  from  time 
to  time  with  a cloth  and  kept,  not  on  the  cellar  floor, 
but  on  a shelf,  and  well  separated  from  each  other. 

Cabbages  are  to  be  placed  in  barrels,  with  the  roots 
uppermost. 

Celery  should  be  neither  trimmed  nor  washed,  but 
packed,  heads  up,  in  long,  deep  boxes,  which  should 
then  be  filled  with  dry  earth. 

Tomatoes  may  be  kept  until  January,  if  gathered 
just  before  frost,  wiped  dry,  and  placed  on  straw- 
covered  racks  in  the  cellar.  They  should  be  firm  and 
well  grown  specimens,  not  yet  beginning  to  turn.  As 
they  ripen  they  may  be  taken  out  for  table  use,  and  any 
soft  or  decaying  ones  must  be  removed. 

Apples,  if  for  use  during  the  autumn,  may  be  stored 
in  barrels  without  further  precaution  than  to  look 
them  over  now  and  then  to  remove  decaying  ones; 
but  if  they  are  to  be  kept  till  late  winter  or  spring 
they  must  be  of  a variety  known  to  keep  well  and  they 
must  be  hand-picked  and  without  blemish  or  bruise. 
They  should  be  wiped  dry  and  placed  with  little  crowd- 
ing on  shelves  in  the  cellar.  As  a further  precaution 
they  may  be  wrapped  separately  in  soft  paper. 

Pears  may  be  kept  for  a limited  time  in  the  same 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


105 


way,  or  packed  in  sawdust  or  chaff,  which  absorbs 
the  moisture  which  might  otherwise  favor  molding. 

Oranges  and  lemons  are  kept  in  the  same  way. 
Wrapping  in  soft  paper  is  here  essential,  as  the  un- 
covered skins  if  bruised  offer  good  feeding  ground  for 
mold.  Oranges  may  be  kept  for  a long  time  in  good 
condition  if  stored  where  it  is  very  cold  but  where 
freezing  is  not  possible.  Lemons  and  limes  are  often 
kept  in  brine,  an  old-fashioned  household  method. 

Cranberries,  after  careful  looking  over  to  remove  soft 
ones,  are  placed  in  a crock  or  firkin  and  covered  with 
water.  A plate  or  round  board  placed  on  top  and 
weighted  serves  to  keep  the  berries  under  water. 
The  water  should  be  changed  once  a month. 

In  winter  large  pieces  of  fresh  meat  may  be  purchased 
and  hung  in  the  cellar.  Thin  pieces,  as  mutton  chops, 
are  sometimes  dipped  in  mutton  suet,  which  keeps  the 
surface  from  drying  and  is  easily  scraped  off  before 
cooking. 

Turkeys,  chickens,  and  other  birds  should  be  care- 
fully drawn  as  soon  as  killed  and  without  washing  hung 
in  the  coolest  available  place. 

Smoked  ham,  tongue,  beef,  and  fish  are  best  put  in 
linen  bags  and  hung  in  the  cellar. 

Salt  pork  and  corned  beef  should  be  kept  in  brine 
in  suitable  jars,  kegs,  or  casks,  and  should  be  weighted 
so  as  to  remain  well  covered.  A plate  or  board  weighted 
with  a clean  stone  is  an  old-fasluoned  and  satisfactory 
device. 

Eggs  may  be  packed  for  winter  use  in  limewater  or 
in  water-glass  solution,  methods  which  are  described 
in  an  earlier  bulletin  ^ of  this  series.  Many  house- 
keepers have  good  success  in  packing  them  in  bran, 

1 U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Farmers’  Bui.  128. 


106 


[ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


in  oats,  or  in  dry  salt,  but  according  to  experiments 
summarized  in  the  aforementioned  bulletin,  the  pref- 
erence is  to  be  given  to  the  10  per  cent  solution  of  water 
glass.  Exclusion  of  the  air  with  its  accompanying 
micro-organisms  and  the  prevention  of  drying  out  are 
what  is  sought  in  all  cases.  Packed  eggs  are  not 
equal  to  fresh  eggs  in  flavor,  but  when  they  are  well 
packed  are  of  fairly  good  quality  and  perfectly  whole- 
some. 

Storage  of  Groceries,  Meats,  Cooked  Food,  and 
Canned  Goods 

Flour  comes  packed  both  in  barrels  and  in  bags,  and 
the  form  in  which  it  shall  be  purchased  and  kept  is  of 
importance  to  the  housewife.  Bags  have  certain 
advantages  over  the  barrel  for  both  producer  and 
consumer;  they  pack  into  freight  cars  with  no  waste 
of  space,  and  the  cloth  for  8 bags  costs  less  than  one 
barrel;  for  the  consumer,  also,  it  is  often  convenient 
to  buy  in  small  quantities.  But,  on  the  other  hand, 
the  bag  is  too  often  very  flimsy  in  texture,  so  that  it 
allows  flour  to  sift  out,  and  is  also  easily  soiled  by 
contact  with  a damp  or  dirty  floor.  The  purchaser 
may  well  require  that  the  bags  be  made  of  good  ma- 
terial, so  that  the  contents  may  be  protected  from  dust 
and  dirt. 

On  this  question  Prof.  Harry  Snyder,  of  the  Uni- 
versity of  Minnesota,  says: 

There  is  no  question  whatever  but  what  flour  improves  by 
storage  up  to  6 months,  and  it  will  then  hold  its  own  for  some 
time,  depending  upon  the  character  of  the  wheat  and  the  thor- 
oughness with  which  impurities  are  removed. 

As  a general  proposition  it  seems  certain  that  it  is  economical 
for  the  consumer  to  buy  flour  in  bulk  rather  than  in  small 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


107 


sacks  at  a time.  In  the  fall  of  the  year  a small  sack  of  flour 
for  trial  purposes  can  be  purchased  of  the  grocer  and  at  the  same 
time  he  can  set  aside  a barrel  of  the  same  flour  of  the  same 
shipment  for  future  delivery,  provided  the  first  sample  proves 
satisfactory.  As  a general  rule  the  price  of  flour  advances  from 
fall  to  spring  suflSciently,  to  more  than  cover  the  interest  item 
involved  and  at  the  same  time  the  consumer  is  assured  of  a good 
quality  of  flour. 

Aside  from  accidental  contamination  the  chief  de- 
structive agencies  in  stored  flour  and  similar  materials 
are  fungi  and  bacteria.  The  fungi  or  molds  break 
down  chiefly  the  starches  of  the  flour,  forming  organic 
acids  which  make  the  flour  sour.  The  bacterial  growths 
which  are  present  are  chiefly  forms  which  liquefy  or 
break  down  the  gluten,  the  acid  presumably  aiding 
in  this.  This  matter  has  been  studied  by  H.  G.  Bell,^ 
among  others,  in  connection  with  the  problem  of  com- 
mercial storage,  and  he  recommends  storage  in  well- 
lighted,  warm,  and  dry  rooms  as  a preventive  of  the 
development  of  fungi  and  bacteria,  a method  as 
applicable  to  farm  and  town  homes  as  to  commercial 
conditions. 

The  various  prepared  or  self-raising  ’’  flours  are 
more  expensive  than  the  mixture  that  the  housewife 
can  easily  make  by  adding  the  requisite  amount  of 
baking  powder  to  flour  and  sifting  it  several  times.  It 
is  a convenience  and  a saving  of  time  to  keep  this  mix- 
ture on  hand,  as  one  sifting  provides  enough  for  a 
month^s  use  in  cakes  and  muffins. 

The  fact  that  many  breakfast  cereals  that  were  once 
sold  only  in  bulk  can  be  bought  in  packages  is  a great 
advantage  from  a sanitary  point  of  view.  The  contents 
of  these  packages,  if  bought  fresh  and  if  well  cared  for, 
will  remain  in  good  condition  for  months.  If  made  in 

iQper.  Miller,  13  (1908),  p.  691;  Amer.  Miller,  37  (1909),  p.  280. 


108 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


clean  factories,  such  goods  have  had  little  chance  for 
contamination  from  dust  and  dirt. 

If  breakfast  cereals  are  brought  in  bulk  they  should 
be  kept  in  tight  receptacles  in  a cool,  dry  place.  Crack- 
ers may  be  kept  like  breakfast  cereals,  either  in  the 
packages,  in  which  many  sorts  are  marketed,  or  in  tin 
boxes  or  in  jars. 

Corn  meal  spoils  more  readily  than  flour,  and  for  most 
families  it  is  best  to  buy  in  small  quantities. 

Rice,  tapioca,  macaroni,  and  similar  dry  materials 
may  be  kept  without  any  trouble  in  covered  cans  or 
small  crocks  in  a dry,  clean  place.  The  same  method 
is  advisable  for  raisins,  Zante  currants,  evaporated 
and  dried  fruits,  and  similar  supplies. 

Sugar  and  salt  are  best  kept,  the  former  in  tin,  the 
latter  in  wooden  or  crockery  receptacles. 

Glass  preserve  jars  are  perhaps  the  best  and  most 
convenient  of  all  containers  for  small  quantities  of 
almost  any  food  material. 

Bread  and  Other  Cooked  Foods 

While  cooling,  newly  baked  bread  should  be  lightly 
covered  with  a clean  cloth  or  paper  to  prevent  mold 
germs  and  dust  from  falling  upon  it,  but  should  not 
be  tightly  wrapped  in  a thick  cloth  as  is  the  practice 
in  some  households,  for  unless  it  is  aired  when  taken 
from  the  oven,  it  is  likely  to  become  “ soggy  ” and 
damp  and  thus  offers  an  excellent  medium  for  cultiva- 
tion of  molds.  When  perfectly  cold  the  bread  should 
be  placed  in  a close  receptacle  that  has  been  thor- 
oughly scalded  and  aired.  If  bread  is  to  be  kept  for 
more  than  2 or  3 days  in  damp,  hot  weather,  the  jar 
or  box  should  be  taken  out  and  sunned  for  a short 
time  now  and  then,  and  again  scalded  and  dried. 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


109 


On  no  account  should  portions  of  a former  baking  be 
stored  with  a new  batch. 

Cake  and  cookies  should  be  cooled  after  baking  and 
kept  in  tin  boxes  or  in  earthenware  jars,  which,  like 
bread  boxes,  should  be  often  scalded  and  aired.  Even 
if  these  foods  are  to  be  eaten  at  the  next  meal  it  is  well 
to  keep  them  in  some  such  receptacle,  as  it  insures 
protection  from  dust.  A cake,  pudding,  or  pie  put 
out  of  a window  uncovered  to  cool  or  in  any  other  place 
where  it  is  exposed  to  dust,  and  in  summer  also  to 
flies,  is  something  that  no  careful  housewife  would 
place  on  her  table  if  she  stopped  to  think  how  easily 
the  food  may  be  contaminated. 

Canned  Fruits  and  Other  Canned  Goods 

Commercial  canned  goods  may  be  advantageously 
bought  by  the  dozen  in  the  autumn,  and  they  do  not 
seem  to  suffer  from  even  a poor  storage  place,  provided 
it  is  not  so  damp  that  the  cans  rust  through.  If  dirty 
or  dusty,  the  cans  should  always  be  carefully  wiped 
before  they  are  opened  to  prevent  accidental  soiling 
of  the  contents. 

Vegetables  and  fruits  canned  at  home  and  home- 
made jellies,  jams,  and  similar  foods  should  be  kept 
in  dry,  airy  storage  places,  out  of  direct  light.  The  cans 
and  jars  used  should  be  of  good  quality,  and  all  the 
usual  precautions  of  good  rubber  rings  (if  they  are 
used),  and  so  on,  should  be  taken.  These  matters  are 
discussed  in  earlier  bulletins  ^ of  this  series. 

Canning  may  also  be  made  use  of  daily  for  tem- 
porary preservation  of  food,  and  it  is  especially  valu- 
able where  ice-chest  facilities  are  not  good.  When 
making  soup  stock  a large  quantity  is  made  as  easily 

1 U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Farmers’  Buis.  203  and  359. 


110 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


as  a small,  and  the  surplus  may  be  poured,  while  hot, 
into  fruit  jars  and  sealed.  Boiled  milk  may  be  thus 
canned  and  cooked  vegetables  which  may  be  at  the 
time  plentiful  or  cheap.  Mince  meat  may  also  be 
canned,  but  it  will  keep  a long  time  in  an  ordinary 
receptacle  if  melted  suet  be  poured  over  the  top. 

Such  canning,  especially  of  soup  stock  or  milk,  is 
only  recommended  for  a few  days’  keeping,  and  every 
precaution  should  be  taken  that  is  familiar  in  the  ordi- 
nary canning  of  fruit  or  vegetables. 

Labeling  Foods  in  Packages  and  Cans 

Many  otherwise  good  housekeepers  are  very  indif- 
ferent about  labeling.  They  trust  to  their  memory 
as  to  what  is  in  each  jar  or  package,  and  sometimes 
with  disastrous  results.  All  stores  should  be  plainly 
labeled. 

Care  and  Utilization  of  Fats 

Fats  that  are  derived  from  the  cooking  of  bacon,  ham, 
chicken,  beef,  and  other  meats,  should  be  kept,  each 
in  its  own  receptacle,  to  be  used  for  different  purposes. 

Home  rendering  of  both  suet  and  leaf  lard  has  its 
advantages,  because  the  product  is  generally  superior 
to  what  can  be  bought  for  the  same  price. 

Both  suet  and  leaf  lard  require  cooking  in  order  to 
loosen  the  fat  from  the  tougher  membrane  that  holds 
it.  For  this  purpose  the  material  is  cut  in  small  pieces 
and  covered  with  water  and  allowed  to  cook  slowly 
for  some  time  until  no  more  water  remains  and  the 
scrap  has  turned  to  a light  brown. 

A better  method  for  suet  is  that  used  by  German 
housewives,  who  economize  on  butter  by  the  use  of 
beef  fat  more  than  do  American  housekeepers.  The 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


111 


suet  is  cut  in  small  pieces  and  covered  with  water, 
in  which  it  is  allowed  to  soak  for  a day,  the  water 
being  changed  once  in  the  time.  It  is  then  drained 
and  put  into  an  iron  kettle  with  one-half  teacup  of 
skim  milk  to  every  pound  of  the  suet.  It  should 
be  cooked  very  slowly  until  the  sound  of  boiling  entirely 
ceases.  When  it  has  partly  cooled,  it  should  be  care- 
fully poured  off.  This  fat  has  no  unpleasant  taste  or 
odor,  and  in  many  recipes  may  be  substituted  for  part 
of  the  butter.  Some  cooks  add  a pound  of  leaf  lard 
to  4 or  5 of  the  suet;  this  makes  a softer  fat,  as  lard 
has  a lower  melting  point  than  beef  fat. 

An  old-fashioned  method  of  clarifying  fat  from  the 
soup  kettle,  or  from  cooked  meats,  so  that  it  may  be 
used  in  the  kitchen,  is  to  add  the  cold  fat  to  a liberal 
quantity  of  cold  water,  then  heat  slowly  and  let  cook 
for  an  hour  or  more.  When  cold,  the  cake  of  fat  is 
removed  and  the  lower  portion,  which  will  contain  the 
small  particles  of  meat,  etc.,  should  be  scraped  away  and 
the  white,  clean  fat  saved.  If  the  flavor  or  color  or 
both  are  not  satisfactory  the  process  may  be  repeated 
several  times.  Another  method  which  is  often  recom- 
mended is  to  cook  a number  of  slices  of  raw  potato 
in  the  boiling  fat. 

When  an  ice  chest  is  used  fat  in  small  quantities  may 
be  easily  kept  sweet  for  cooking  purposes.  If  lard 
is  rendered  at  home  in  quantity  suflBcient  for  a long 
time,  it  should  be  kept  covered  in  tins  or  earthen  jars, 
in  a cool,  dry  place,  as  in  a cellar  or  storeroom. 

In  some  families  where  fat  from  cooked  meats  is 
not  used  in  the  kitchen  it  is  made  into  soap  for  laundry 
or  even  toilet  use.  Directions  for  making  soap  at 
home  may  be  found  in  most  good  books  on  house- 
keeping. Some  questions  concerned  with  soap  making 


112 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


at  home  are  considered  in  a discussion  of  laundry 
and  other  cleaning  problems  by  Miss  Rose,^  of  the 
Home  Economics  Department  of  the  Agricultural  , ’ 
College  at  Cornell  University. 

Cooking  butter  may  be  bought  at  a lower  price  than 
table  butter,  but  it  should  be  rendered  before  using.  ; 

It  may  be  found  to  have  some  degree  of  rancidity,  j 

and  to  correct  this  condition  there  must  be  mixed 
with  it  J to  1 teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  to  the  pound. 

It  should  be  melted  and  cooked  down  slowly  until  the  j 
froth  rises  and  the  sound  of  cooking  ceases,  then  j 
skimmed  and  poured  off  carefully  from  the  dregs.  I 
Unless  to  be  used  immediately,  J tablespoohful  of 
salt  per  pound  should  be  added.  One-third  less  of  ! 
this  clarified  butter  is  equivalent  to  the  quantity  of 
ordinary  butter  called  for  in  any  recipe.  In  India 
and  some  other  tropical  countries  this  rendered  butter, 
called  “ ghee  ” or  some  other  special  name,  is  a product 
much  used  by  the  native  population,  and  through  their  , 
example  by  others,  who  have  found  by  long  experience  j 
that  butter  will  keep  in  good  condition  in  this  form 
while  it  would  generally  spoil  if  stored  as  made.  I 

Handling  of  Food  and  Utensils  in  the  Kitchen 

The  handling  of  food  before  it  reaches  the  home  is  a 
matter  of  the  greatest  importance  to  the  housekeeper, 
as  it  has  a very  important  relation  to  the  condition  of 
the  food  and  to  its  keeping  qualities,  wholesomeness,  ; 
and  other  characteristics  after  it  is  purchased. 

In  preceding  sections  it  has  been  shown  what  are  the  j 
dangers  from  market  dirt  and  dust,  from  flies,  and  other  - 
animal  hfe,  from  the  soiled  hands  and  garments  and  j 

1 The  Laundry:  Cornell  Reading  Courses  for  Farmers’  Wives,  n.  s.  1,  Sani- 
tation. j 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


113 


utensils  of  butcher  and  grocer,  milkman,  and  delivery- 
boy.  It  is  not  too  much  to  say  that  when  the  food 
reaches  our  door  much  of  it  is  an  object  of  suspicion, 
and  this  will  be  the  case  until  market  inspection  is  far 
better  than  at  present.  But  we  have  now  to  consider 
what  treatment  shall  be  given  to  perishable  food  when 
it  comes  into  the  kitchen. 

Meats 

The  dealer  must  be  especially  enjoined  to  tie  up  the 
meat  in  a secure  package,  else  the  brown  paper  in  which 
it  is  loosely  wrapped  will  not  protect  it  thoroughly 
in  transit.  This  paper  should  not  go  with  the  meat 
into  the  ice  box. 

When  meat  is  received  the  skin  side  should  be  rubbed 
with  a cloth  wet  in  hot  water  and  then  carefully 
scraped  with  a knife.  The  thin  outer  skin  of  lamb 
should  be  entirely  removed  in  order  to  avoid  the  dis- 
agreeable taste  due  to  any  contact  with  the  hair  of  the 
animal.  The  cut  surface  should  also  be  carefully 
scraped,  and,  to  prevent  drying,  be  covered  with  paraflSn 
paper  or  rubbed  with  salad  oil,  or,  in  case  the  meat  is 
to  be  kept  for  some  time,  entirely  covered  with  melted 
suet.  The  meat  should  then  be  put  on  a plate  in  the 
See  box. 

Poultry 

The  skin  of  poultry  is  frequently  very  dirty  when 
brought  from  market  and  fowls  should  be  not  only 
washed,  but  scrubbed  with  a soft  brush  and  warm 
water  in  which  a teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  has  been 
dissolved.  Such  treatment  will  prevent  the  dis- 
agreeable “ henny  ” taste  often  noticeable  in  cooked 
poultry. 


114 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Poultry  should  be  drawn  immediately,  and  unless 
it  is  known  to  have  been  killed  very  recently  it  should 
be  thoroughly  washed  on  the  inside  and  used  soon. 
Poultry  that  is  drawn  directly  after  killing,  on  the 
contrary,  keeps  better  if  it  is  not  washed  until  used. 
It  should  be  hung  in  a cold  place  or  put  in  the  ice 
box  with  a piece  of  charcoal  inside  the  body. 

Cold-storage  chickens  should  under  no  circumstances 
remain  in  a warm  room  before  cooking.  Such  poultry 
must  be  kept  at  a low  temperature  and  cooked  as  soon 
as  possible.  All  cold-storage  food  when  brought  into 
a warm  temperature  spoils  quickly,  and  without 
doubt  many  cases  of  illness  traced  to  the  use  of  such 
food  are  really  due  to  careless  handling  and  delay  in 
cooking. 

Washing  Vegetables 

If  deteriorated  vegetables  are  brought  into  the 
kitchen  no  method  of  handling  will  restore  them 
to  first-class  condition.  Even  good  ones  will  not  be 
at  their  best  unless  they  are  properly  cared  for  after 
being  received.  After  all  that  has  been  said  in  this 
bulletin  regarding  the  possibilities  of  dangerous  micro- 
organisms having  lodged  upon  vegetables,  it  may  seem 
superfluous  to  insist  again  that  any  which  are  to  be 
eaten  raw  should  be  thoroughly  washed.  It  is  of  course 
useless  to  wash  them  with  water  which  is  itself  danger- 
ous, and  in  any  case  where  the  water  supply  is  not 
considered  safe  for  drinking,  boiled  water  should  be 
used  for  washing  vegetables  and  fruit  after  the  first 
rough  dirt  has  been  removed  by  hydrant  water. 

As  to  the  method  of  washing  vegetables,  a few  cau- 
tions are  in  order.  Some  people  never  choose  aspara- 
gus at  table  unless  it  has  been  prepared  by  some  one 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


115 


who  is  very  careful,  as  they  do  not  wish  to  bite  down  on 
sand,  for  the  cleaning  of  this  vegetable  requires  con- 
science as  well  as  care.  The  bunch  should  be  placed, 
heads  down,  in  water  for  some  hours  and  should  be 
shaken  back  and  forth  to  dislodge  the  particles  of 
earth.  Spinach  is  another  vegetable  which  requires 
the  best  cleansing  to  free  it  from  grit.  After  the  roots 
have  been  cut  off  it  should  be  washed  in  a number  of 
waters  and  lifted  out  of  the  pan  each  time  in  loose 
handfuls  before  the  water  has  been  drained  off. 

Celery  and  lettuce  and  other  salad  plants,  because 
eaten  raw,  must  be  washed  with  the  greatest  care. 
They  should  be  searched  leaf  by  leaf  for  insect  life, 
washed  in  several  waters,  and  then  wiped  dry  with  a 
clean  cloth  and  put  in  a cold  place  to  become  crisp. 

Washing  Fruits 

A German  investigator,  B,  Ehrlich,^  having  esti- 
mated by  careful  experiments  the  number  of  bacteria 
to  be  found  on  market  fruit,  tried  different  methods 
of  washing  it  without  injuring  the  flavor.  He  washed 
grapes,  apples,  and  pears  that  had  been  exposed  to 
street  dust,  each  time  examining  the  wash  water  for 
the  number  of  bacteria  present.  While  the  first  wash 
water  yielded  large  numbers,  the  second  contained 
only  a few,  and  the  third  a negligible  number.  A 
basin  of  water  was  used  for  the  purpose,  the  fruit 
being  moved  about  in  it.  When  running  water  was 
used,  five  minutes’  time  was  allowed.  Fruits  with  a 
firm,  smooth  skin  should  be  rubbed  before  washing 
with  a clean  cloth  to  start  the  dirt. 

The  cleaning  of  delicate  berries  is  a difficult  matter. 
Such  fruit  should  be  purchased  with  care  to  avoid  all 

1 1 Arch.  Hyg.,  41  (1901),  p.  152. 


116 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


that  are  too  soft  or  which  show  sand  or  other  visible 
dirt.  Strawberries,  because  they  grow  so  near  the 
ground,  should  not  be  purchased  after  a rain,  which 
will  spatter  them  with  muddy  drops.  Only  the  fresh- 
est and  cleanest  berries  should  be  served  raw;  more 
doubtful  specimens  should  be  cooked.  By  immersing 
them  in  water  a few  at  a time  and  handling  carefully, 
such  fruits  may  be  washed  without  much  loss  of  flavor. 
These  matters  are  also  discussed  in  an  earlier  bulletin  ^ 
of  this  series. 

Dried  figs  and  dates  are  very  commonly  eaten  with- 
out cooking,  or  even  washing,  and  yet  they  have  been 
exposed  for  an  unknown  length  of  time  to  the  contagion 
brought  by  dust,  flies,  and  dirty  hands.  In  how  many 
houses  are  oranges  washed  before  they  are  brought  to 
the  table,  or  the  lemon  before  it  is  sliced  for  the  tea 
or  lemonade,  or  before  the  skin  is  grated  for  flavoring? 
Yet  the  skin  is  often  very  dirty. 

Shelled  nuts  purchased  in  market  should  always  be 
washed  and  scalded  before  they  are  used,  as  they  are 
commonly  exposed  to  dust,  and  perhaps  to  flies. 
They  can  afterwards  be  dried  on  a clean  cloth  before 
using. 

Many  careful  housewives  wash  nuts  in  the  shell 
before  cracking,  as  this  prevents  accidental  soiling 
of  the  kernels. 

Washing  Eggs 

The  ordinary  way  to  break  an  egg  is  to  hit  it  against 
another  egg  or  over  the  edge  of  the  mixing  bowl  and 
let  the  contents  stream  over  the  side  of  the  shell  with- 
out considering  whether  the  latter  is  clean  or  not. 
Even  if  there  is  no  visible  dirt,  the  shell  may  not  be  as 

^ U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Farmers’  Bui.  293. 


CAEE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


117 


clean  as  it  seems,  for  it  may  have  come  from  a dirty 
nest  or  have  been  untidily  handled.  Eggs  should  there- 
fore always  be  washed  before  breaking. 

Dishwashing 

The  bacteriologist  finds  no  kitchen  clean  enough  and 
the  ordinary  methods  of  washing  dishes  he  is  likely  to 
call  a “ smear.” 

Dishes  have  been  tested  to  determine  the  number  of 
organisms  that  remain  on  them  after  “ ordinary  ” 
washing  as  compared  with  a method  that  requires 
an  application  of  hot  water  with  the  help  of  soap,  or 
better  still,  carbonate  of  soda,  a thorough  rinsing  in 
hot  water,  and  wiping  with  a sterilized  cloth  (that  is, 
one  which  has  been  in  boiling  water  since  it  was  used 
before).  By  this  latter  method  the  dishes  were  prac- 
tically sterile  while  many  organisms  were  left  on  the 
dishes  that  were  washed  by  the  “ ordinary  ” method. 

One  might  ask  what  harm  they  will  do  if  present. 
Oftentimes  none,  but  if  the  bacteria  are  those  which 
convey  disease,  dirty  dishes  may  be  the  means  of  giving 
it  to  well  persons.  But  most  of  all,  persons  who  are  at 
all  thoughtful  of  such  things  do  not  want  any  dirt 
which  may  be  prevented  by  good  methods,  simply 
because  dirt  in  itself  is  sufiiciently  unpleasant. 

In  washing  milk  utensils  it  is  first  necessary  to  remove 
with  warm  water  all  traces  of  the  milk  before  scalding 
water  is  used.  Because  of  the  cream  adhering  to  the 
sides  soap  is  used  also,  but  the  greatest  care  must 
be  taken  to  remove  by  repeated  rinsing  every  trace  of 
soap.  A telltale  flavor  of  soap  in  the  morning  cream 
has  more  than  once  revealed  careless  habits  in  the 
kitchen,  and  made  it  evident  that  all  the  soap  was  not 


118 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


removed  in  rinsing.  The  utensils  must  then  be  dipped 
into  absolutely  boiling  water  for  a moment. 

It  is  an  important  matter  to  wash  the  milk  bottle 
in  which  milk  is  now  commonly  delivered  to  customers. 
By  this  we  refer  to  the  washing  of  the  full  bottle  be- 
fore it  is  opened.  It  is  safe  to  say  that  this  is  seldom 
done.  But  notice  the  bottle  as  it  is  brought  into  the 
kitchen,  the  milkman  grasping  it  with  his  hand  over 
the  top.  These  hands  perhaps  more  often  than  not 
have  harnessed  his  horse,  have  been  grasping  the 
reins  all  the  morning,  have  opened  and  shut  doors,  run 
along  stair  railings,  have  perhaps  wiped  mouth  or  nose, 
and  yet  the  thoughtless  housekeeper  or  cook,  regarding 
the  white  cap  as  full  security  from  the  outer  world, 
pours  out  the  milk  over  a very  dirty  bottle  brim. 
Milk  bottles  should  be  put  under  the  hot  water  spigot 
for  a moment  and  wiped  dry  with  a clean  cloth  before 
opening.  Most  housewives  agree  that  milk  bottles 
should  be  carefully  rinsed  before  they  are  returned, 
perhaps  more  from  a feeling  for  cleanliness  than  for 
absolute  necessity,  as  the  milk  bottles  in  all  well- 
managed  dairies  are  thoroughly  scrubbed  and  washed 
before  refilling.  If  such  violations  of  this  practice  as 
recently  came  under  observation  are  noted,  when  the 
driver  of  a dairy  wagon  washed  out  some  milk  bottles 
in  a public  drinking  fountain  provided  for  horses, 
refilled  them,  and  disposed  of  them  to  other  customers, 
complaint  should  be  made  to  the  dairy,  and  if  this  is 
not  sufficient,  to  the  board  of  health. 

Care  of  the  Water  Cooler 

Water  is  an  indispensable  food  adjunct  and  so  may 
be  properly  spoken  of  here.  The  water  and  the  ice 
supply  should  both  be  above  suspicion.  The  question 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


119 


of  wells,  water,  and  ice  supply  has  been  discussed  in 
earlier  bulletins  of  this  series.^  The  greatest  care 
should  be  taken  to  keep  clean  and  in  good  condition 
all  vessels  in  which  water  is  used  for  household  pur- 
poses. Water  coolers,  if  used,  should  be  of  some  mate- 
rial like  porcelain  or  enameled  ware  which  is  easily 
kept  clean.  They  should  be  scalded  out  at  frequent 
intervals.  The  ice,  if  it  comes  in  contact  with  the 
water,  should  be  of  known  quality.  If  such  ice  can 
not  be  secured,  a water  cooler  should  be  used  in  which 
the  ice  is  in  a separate  receptacle  and  does  not  come 
in  contact  with  the  water.  Many  families  cool  drink- 
ing water  by  putting  it  in  the  ice  box  in  glass  fruit 
jars  or  bottles.  Perfect  clearness  is  an  indication  of 
purity  in  ice.  Cloudy  ice  full  of  bubbles  or  snow  ice 
should  not  be  used  in  direct  contact  with  food,  and  ice 
which  contains  dirt  of  various  kinds  frozen  in  it  should 
be  regarded  with  suspicion. 

If  it  is  believed  that  the  water  is  not  pure,  it  may 
be  boiled  or  filtered,  or  both.  If  filters  are  used,  every 
precaution  should  be  taken  to  keep  them  clean  and  in 
good  condition  and  to  rely  only  on  such  as  really 
purify  the  water.  Earthenware  filters  may  be  sterilized 
by  placing  in  a pan  or  kettle  of  water  and  boiling  them 
out  after  they  have  been  thoroughly  scrubbed  with  a 
brush.  A small  piece  of  wood  should  be  placed  under 
the  jar  to  prevent  direct  contact  with  the  bottom  of  the 
pan. 

The  water  cooler  in  pubhc  places  should  always  be 
in  charge  of  a responsible  person  who  will  keep  it 
clean  and  in  good  condition.  Some  sort  of  a sanitary 
drinking  fountain  is  desirable.  The  public  drinking 
cup  of  the  sort  usually  seen  should  not  be  permitted. 

U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Farmers*  Buis.  43,  73,  262,  309. 


120 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


It  is  uncleanly  and  furnishes  a ready  means  of  trans- 
mitting disease. 

Recent  experiments  made  by  the  Kansas  State  Board 
of  Health  ^ give  results  which  are  in  accord  with  the 
work  of  other  investigators  and  plainly  showed  the 
presence  of  mouth  bacteria  and  other  micro-organisms, 
including  those  which  cause  pneumonia,  on  drinking 
cups  from  an  office  building,  a ward  school,  and  a rail- 
road station.  This  means  that  the  user  of  the  public 
drinking  cup  runs  the  risk  of  taking  into  his  mouth 
more  or  less  of  the  saliva  of  some  other  person  and 
may  take  with  it  micro-organisms  causing  virulent 
disease  as  well  as  the  ordinary  mouth  bacteria  which 
are  doubtless  harmless.  These  unpleasant  and  danger- 
ous features  may  be  avoided  by  the  use  of  proper  drink- 
ing fountains  and  cups. 

In  many  homes  a glass  or  cup  is  placed  by  the  water 
pail  or  water  cooler  and  is  used  by  all  the  members  of 
the  famil3^  Such  a custom  should  not  be  followed. 
Although  it  is  necessarily  less  dangerous  than  the 
public  drinking  cup,  it  is  not  a cleanly  practice  and  is 
many  times  without  doubt  responsible  for  the  spread 
of  colds  and  other  minor  ailments  throughout  a family. 

Personal  Cleanliness  in  the  Kitchen 

There  may  sometimes  be  observed  in  the  cooked 
dish  a loss  of  flavor,  not  a bad  taste,  but  a lack  of  what 
is  appetizing.  It  would  be  interesting  to  know  in 
how  many  cases  this  comes  from  a lack  of  cleanliness 
in  utensils  and  methods. 

Personal  cleanliness  is  of  course  essential  in  the 
kitchen,  and  every  good  housekeeper  endeavors  to 
maintain  a high  standard  in  such  matters.  Some  food 

1 Bul.  Kans.  Bd.  Health,  5 (1909),  No.  3,  p.  76. 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


121 


manufactories  make  special  efforts  to  secure  cleanli- 
ness and  hygienic  surroundings,  and  the  good  example 
they  set  should  be  generally  followed. 

Food  and  fingers  are  carriers  of  contagion.'^  The 
proper  way  of  washing  the  hands,  if  seriously  taught 
and  seriously  practiced,  in  the  market  and  in  the 
kitchen,  would  go  far  to  remove  the  source  not  only 
of  infection  but  of  such  additions  to  the  food  as  are 
disgusting  to  think  of.  In  this  matter  some  food 
manufactories  are  cleaner  in  their  methods  than  are 
our  kitchens.  In  one  large  bakery,  where  information 
was  collected,  the  rule  is  in  force  that  every  employee 
shall  wash  his  hands  on  returning  to  the  room  after 
leaving  it  for  any  purpose  whatever. 

The  running  tap,  like  the  shower  bath,  offers  a great 
improvement  over  old  methods  of  washing.  Few 
will  have  patience  to  fill  and  refill  the  hand  basin  until 
the  hands  are  bathed  at  last  in  clean  water,  but  this 
result  is  easily  accomplished  under  the  tap.  The 
nailbrush  and  nail  cleaner  must  have  their  place  in  the 
kitchen,  and  their  use  must  be  insisted  on  before  bread 
or  cake  is  mixed  and  after  work  at  all  soiling  in  char- 
acter. 

Every  one  will  admit  that  there  is  need  for  exercising 
great  care  in  coughing  and  sneezing  wherever  such 
necessary  acts  may  be  annoying  to  others.  When  one 
recalls  that  experiment  has  shown  that  a fine  spray 
of  saliva  may  be  thrown  in  all  directions  for  a dis- 
tance of  4 or  5 feet  by  a violent  sneeze  or  cough  and 
that  often  the  cause  of  the  cough  or  sneeze  is  some- 
thing which  can  be  thus  communicated  to  others,  it  is 
evident  that  there  is  abundant  reason  for  caution. 
Particularly  is  this  essential  wherever  food  is  prepared, 
exposed,  or  served. 


122 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Use  of  Paper  in  the  Kitchen 

Paper  has  many  uses  in  the  kitchen.  The  cook  needs 
a piece  of  paper  on  which  to  drain  the  fried  croquette 
or  fritter,  and  she  reaches  out  for  the  brown  paper  that 
came  around  the  meat  or  for  the  grocer’s  bag.  She 
turns  to  the  same  source  when  she  wishes  paper  for 
lining  a cake  pan.  A httle  reflection  will  show  how  far 
from  cleanly  is  this  practice. 

In  every  kitchen  should  be  found  a roll  of  grocer’s  , 

paper  on  its  frame.  You  are  sure  here  of  something  ; 

that  has  not  been  handled  since  it  was  rolled  up  by  , 

machinery  in  the  factory.  Paraffin  paper  should  also  j 

be  at  hand  for  covering  food,  for  wrapping  up  sand-  ? 

wiches  for  school  lunches,  and  for  similar  purposes.  I 

Importance  of  Good  House  Plans  and  Home  I 

Conveniences  1 

The  care  of  food  in  the  home  and  all  other  forms  of  i 

household  work  are  greatly  facilitated  by  right  planning  j 

and  the  use  of  suitable  materials  for  the  construction  j 

and  furnishing  of  the  home.  An  adequate  and  con-  i 

venient  water  supply  and  other  conveniences  are  j 

essential,  not  only  for  comfort  and  for  saving  labor,  j 

but  also  from  the  standpoint  of  home  hygiene.  The  ■ 

question  of  home  conveniences,  the  arrangement  of  a | 

kitchen,  and  similar  topics  are  considered  in  other  • 

bulletins  ^ of  this  series  and  in  many  volumes  on  the  j 

house  and  house  construction.^  t 

j 

Cleanliness  in  Public  Eating  Places  j 

The  sanitary  condition  of  kitchens  and  the  food  ] 

service  in  hotels  and  other  places  where  food  is  served  i 

1 

1 U.  S.  Dept.  Agr.,  Farmers’  Buis.  270,  317,  342.  j 

* The  Healthful  Farmhouse.  Boston,  1906.  The  House,  Its  Plan,  Decora- 
tion,  and  Care.<  Isabel  Bevier.  Chicago,  1907.  ! 


CARE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  HOME 


123 


to  the  public  is  a matter  to  which  most  persons  who 
patronize  them  have  given  at  least  occasional  thought. 

Perhaps  the  most  common  attitude  toward  this  sub- 
ject of  the  temporary  home/^  as  toward  markets 
and  other  places  where  food  is  handled  or  prepared 
before  it  reaches  the  home  kitchen,  is  that  it  is  least 
disturbing  to  put  it  out  of  mind  and  to  forget  unpleasant 
things  which,  it  is  assumed,  can  not  be  remedied. 

This  is  not  the  right  attitude,  for  the  subject  has  a 
direct  relation  to  comfort  and  to  health  and  is  one  in 
which  public  sentiment  is  perhaps  the  chief  factor  in 
securing  regulation.  Legislation  regarding  the  in- 
spection and  regulation  of  hotels,  restaurants,  and 
other  places  where  meals  are  served  is  in  force  in  some 
cities  and  contemplated  in  others.  The  results  of  the 
inspection  of  restaurant  and  lunch-room  kitchens  in 
Washington,  D.  C.,  by  the  board  of  health  indicates  that 
the  matter  is  one  which  needs  to  be  under  control,  and 
concerning  which  the  public  has  a right  to  full  informa- 
tion, so  that  the  clean  places  may  be  patronized  and  the 
others  avoided. 

Proper  ventilation  in  hotel  and  restaurant  kitchens, 
suitable  sanitary  conveniences  for  employees,  and 
whatever  else  makes  for  clean  food  are  matters  of  public 
hygiene  which  are  of  the  same  importance  as  is  the  case 
with  bakeries,  markets,  candy  factories,  and  other 
places  where  food  is  handled. 

There  are  other  matters  which  are  also  worth  con- 
sidering in  this  connection. 

It  is  no  very  uncommon  thing  to  notice  in  a hotel, 
restaurant,  or  dining  car,  and  often  in  those  which 
pride  themselves  on  the  excellence  of  their  service, 
practices  which  would  not  be  permitted  if  due  atten- 
tion was  paid  to  all  matters  of  hygiene.  For  instance, 


124 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


it  may  be  sometimes  noted  that  finger  bowls  which 
have  not  been  washed  since  a previous  service  are  placed 
before  guests.  Soiled  napkins  may  also  be  seen  occa- 
sionally in  use  for  wiping  off  table  dishes  before  ser- 
vice. It  is  certain  that  such  practices  where  they  exist 
would  not  continue  if  supervision  by  the  manage- 
ment was  as  thorough  as  it  should  be  or  if  patrons 
were  not  indifferent  to  them  or  Jacking  in  observation. 

The  public  owes  a duty  to  the  management  in  such 
matters  and  all  such  violations  of  the  laws  of  hygiene 
and  cleanliness  should  be  reported  to  the  proper  per- 
son. Here,  as  in  most  other  instances,  the  remedy 
lies  in  the  hands  of  the  public. 

On  the  other  hand,  there  is  no  ground  for  a general 
suspicion  of  the  methods  in  use  in  hotels  and  restau- 
rants. Probably  in  the  majority  of  cases  a great  deal 
of  attention  is  given  to  kitchen  and  serving-room 
equipment,  which  is  designed  as  regards  both  material 
and  method  of  construction  in  such  a way  that  it  may 
be  readily  kept  clean,  and  good  hotels  and  restaurants 
are  constantly  endeavoring  to  make  sure  that  food  is 
handled,  cooked,  and  served  in  a cleanly  manner. 
In  general,  carefully  managed  hotels  welcome  inspec- 
tion of  their  kitchens  and  storerooms  by  visitors. 

In  conclusion  it  may  be  said  that  the  preparation  of 
food  must  more  and  more  come  to  be  considered  as  an 
occupation  that  requires  of  the  person  who  undertakes 
it  knowledge  and  habits  quite  beyond  what  is  now 
expected  of  a person  who  is  simply  a “ good  cook.” 

It  is  even  more  essential  that  the  housewife  who 
buys  food  and  who  attends  to  her  own'  food  preparation 
should  have  such  knowledge. 


U.  S.  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FARMERS’  BULLETIN  NO.  255 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 

W.  R.  BEATTIE 

Assistant  Horticulturist,  Bureau  of  Plant  Industry 


INTRODUCTION 

It  would  be  impossible  to  make  an  accurate  estimate 
of  the  value  of  crops  grown  in  the  kitchen  gardens  of 
the  United  States,  but  from  careful  observation  the 
statement  can  safely  be  made  that  a well-kept  garden 
will  yield  a return  ten  to  fifteen  times  greater  than 
would  the  same  area  and  location  if  devoted  to  general 
farm  crops.  A half  acre  devoted  to  the  various  kinds 
of  garden  crops  will  easily  supply  a family  with  $100 
worth  of  vegetables  during  the  year,  while  the  average 
return  for  farm  crops  is  considerably  less  than  one- 
tenth  of  this  amount.  A bountiful  supply  of  vegetables 
close  at  hand  where  they  may  be  secured  at  a few 
moments’  notice  is  of  even  more  importance  than 
the  mere  money  value. 

Fresh  vegetables  from  the  home  garden  are  not 
subjected  to  exposure  on  the  markets  or  in  trans- 
I portation  and  are  not  liable  to  become  infected  in  any 

125 


126 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


way.  Many  of  the  products  of  the  garden  lose  their 
characteristic  flavor  when  not  used  within  a few 
hours  after  gathering.  By  means  of  the  home  garden 
the  production  of  the  vegetable  supply  for  the  family 
is  directly  under  control,  and  in  many  cases  is  the  only 
way  whereby  clean,  fresh  produce  may  be  secured.  The 
home  vegetable  garden  is  worthy  of  increased  atten- 
tion, and  a greater  number  and-variety  of  crops  should 
be  included  in  the  garden. 

Suggestions  are  herein  given  as  to  the  location  of  the 
garden,  the  soil  and  its  preparation,  fertilizers,  seeds, 
and  plants,  with  brief  cultural  methods  for  a number 
of  the  more  important  crops. 

Location  of  the  Garden 

The  question  of  the  proximity  to  the  house  or  other 
buildings  is  of  great  importance  when  locating  the  gar- 
den. In  old  homesteads  the  garden  was  generally 
located  directly  adjacent  to  the  house,  requiring  but 
a few  steps  from  the  kitchen  to  reach  the  extreme 
parts  of  the  garden.  The  work  of  caring  for  a garden 
is  usually  done  at  spare  times,  and  for  this  reason  alone 
the  location  should  be  near  the  dwelling.  In  case  the 
site  chosen  for  the  garden  should  become  unsuitable 
for  any  cause  it  is  not  a difficult  matter  to  change 
the  location.  Many  persons  prefer  to  plant  the  garden 
in  a different  location  every  5 or  6 years. 

The  lay  of  the  land  has  considerable  influence  upon 
the  time  that  the  soil  can  be  worked,  and  a gentle  slope 
toward  the  south  or  southeast  is  most  desirable  for  the 
production  of  early  crops.  It  is  an  advantage  to  have 
protection  on  the  north  and  northwest  by  either 
a hill,  a groups  of  trees,  evergreens,  a hedge,  buildings. 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


127 


a tight  board  fence,  or  a stone  wall  to  break  the  force 
of  the  wind. 

Good  natural  drainage  of  the  garden  area  is  of  prime 
importance.  The  land  should  have  sufl&cient  fall  to 
drain  off  surplus  water  during  heavy  rains,  but  the 
fall  should  not  be  so  great  that  the  soil  will  be  washed. 
The  surface  of  the  garden  should  not  contain  depres- 
sions in  which  water  will  accumulate  or  stand.  Waste 
water  from  surrounding  land  should  not  flow  toward 
the  garden,  and  the  fall  below  should  be  such  that  there 
will  be  no  danger  of  flood  water  backing  up.  The 
garden  should  not  be  located  along  the  banks  of  a creek 
or  stream  that  will  be  liable  to  overflow  during  the  grow- 
ing season. 

A good  fence  around  the  garden  plot  is  almost  indis- 
pensable, and  it  should  be  a safeguard  against  all  farm 
animals,  including  poultry,  and  should  be  close  enough 
to  keep  out  rabbits.  A tight  board  fence  will  accom- 
plish this  result  and  also  serve  as  a wind-break. 

Plan  and  Arrangement  of  the  Garden 

It  would  be  difficult  to  give  a plan  or  speciflc  arrange- 
ment for  a garden  that  would  suit  all  demands,  and  such 
a plan  must  be  devised  by  each  individual  grower. 
Suggestive  arrangements,  however,  are  here  presented, 
with  the  idea  that  thay  can  readily  be  changed  to  suit 
local  conditions. 

Kind  of  Cultivation  to  be  Employed 

The  first  consideration  in  planning  the  arrangement 
of  a garden  is  the  kind  of  cultivation  that  is  to  be 
employed.  Where  the  work  is  to  be  done  mainly 
by  means  of  horse  tools  the  arrangement  should  be 
such  as  to  give  the  longest  possible  rows,  and  straight 


128 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


f 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


129 


w 

o 

cr 

a 

Lettuce,  Radishes,  Onions. 

Carrots,  Parsnips  and  All  Crops. 

That  May  be  Grown  in  18-inch  Rows. 

O 

s 

p 

3 

Early  Peas  and  Beans  (Followed  by  Celery). 

Early  Peas  and  Beans  (Followed  by  Celery). 

F 

> 

Peas  (Followed  by  Spinach). 

CD 

•d 

Peas  (Followed  by  Spinach). 

W 

H 

P 

(W 

d 

Early  Cabbage  (Followed  by  Late  Peas). 

Early  Cabbage  (Followed  by  Late  Peas). 

Tomatoes. 

Tomatoes. 

Tomatoes. 

Cucumbers. 

Cucumbers. 

Cucumbers. 

Muskmelons. 

Muskmelons. 

d 

cr 

p 

Early  Potatoes  (Followed  by  Late  Cabbage). 

►1 

o' 

Early  Potatoes  (Followed  by  Late  Cabbage). 

p 

0 

p. 

Early  Corn  (Followed  by  Turnips). 

W 

Early  Corn  (Followed  by  Turnips). 

® 

O' 

Early  Corn  (Followed  by  Turnips). 

00 

Early  Corn  (Followed  by  Turnips). 

Fig.  2. — Plan  of  a City-lot  or  Back-yard  Garden.  50  by  90  Feet. 


130 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


outlines  should  be  followed.  The  garden  should  be  free 
from  paths  across  the  rows,  and  turning  spaces  should 
be  provided  at  the  ends.  (Fig.  1.)  For  hand  culti- 
vation the  arrangement  can  be  quite  different,  as  the 
garden  may  be  laid  off  in  sections,  with  transverse 
walks,  and  the  rows  can  be  much  closer  for  most 
crops.  (Fig.  2.)  Horse  cultivation  is  recommended 
whenever  possible,  as  it  very  materially  lessens  the 
labor  and  cost  of  caring  for  the  crops. 

Location  of  Crops 

The  second  matter  for  consideration  is  the  location 
of  permanent  crops,  such  as  asparagus  and  rhubarb, 
and  if  any  of  the  small  fruits,  such  as  raspberries,  cur- 
rants, and  gooseberries,  are  to  be  planted  within  the 
garden  inclosure,  they  should  be  included  with  the  per- 
manent crops.  The  area  devoted  to  the  hotbed, 
cold  frame,  and  seed  bed  should  be  decided  upon, 
but  these  may  be  shifted  more  or  less  from  year  to  year 
or  located  in  some  convenient  place  outside  of  the 
garden. 

Where  there  is  any  great  variation  in  the  composition 
of  the  soil  in  different  parts  of  the  garden  it  will  be 
advisable  to  take  this  into  consideration  when  arrang- 
ing for  the  location  of  the  various  crops.  If  a part  of 
the  land  is  low  and  moist,  such  crops  as  celery,  onions, 
and  late  cucumbers  should  be  placed  there.  If  part 
of  the  soil  is  high,  warm,  and  dry,  that  is  the  proper 
location  for  early  crops  and  those  that  need  quick, 
warm  soil. 

Succession  of  Crops 

In  planning  the  location  of  the  various  crops  in  the 
garden,  due  consideration  should  be  given  to  the  matter 
of  succession  in  order  that  the  land  may  be  occupied 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


131 


at  all  times.  As  a rule  it  would  not  be  best  to  have 
a second  planting  of  the  same  crop  follow  the  first, 
but  some  such  arrangement  as  early  peas  followed  by 
celery,  or  early  cabbage  or  potatoes  followed  by  late 
beans  or  corn,  and  similar  combinations,  are  more 
satisfactory.  In  the  South  as  many  as  three  crops 
may  be  grown  one  after  the  other  on  the  same  land, 
but  at  the  extreme  north,  where  the  season  is  short, 
but  one  crop  can  be  grown,  or  possibly  two  by  some 
such  combination  as  early  peas  followed  by  turnips. 

Preparation  of  the  Soil 

Where  there  is  considerable  choice  in  the  location 
of  the  garden  plot,  it  is  often  possible  to  select  land 
that  will  require  very  little  special  preparation.  On 
the  other  hand,  it  may  be  necessary  to  take  an  unde- 
sirable soil  and  bring  it  into  suitable  condition,  and  it 
is  generally  surprising  to  note  the  change  that  can  be 
wrought  in  a single  season. 

Drainage 

There  are  very  few  soils  that  are  not  improved 
'^y  some  form  of  drainage.  Heavy  clay  soils  are 
benefited  most  by  drainage,  but  sandy  soils  having 
a clay  subsoil  are  made  warmer  and  greatly  improved 
by  having  the  excess  soil  water  removed  quickly. 

Plowing 

Autumn  is  the  time  for  plowing  hard  or  stiff  clay 
soils,  especially  if  in  a part  of  the  country  where  freez- 
ing takes  place,  as  the  action  of  the  frost  during  the 
winter  will  break  the  soil  into  fine  particles  and  render 
it  suitable  for  planting.  Sandy  loams  and  soils  that 


132 


ADVICE  TO  THE^  HOUSEWIFE 


contain  a large  amount  of  humus  may  be  plowed 
in  the  spring,  but  the  work  should  be  done  early  in 
order  that  the  soil  may  settle  before  planting.  In 
the  Southern  States,  where  there  is  not  sufficient  frost 
to  mellow  the  soil,  this  process  must  be  accomplished 
by  means  of  frequent  cultivations,  in  order  that  the  air 
may  act  upon  the  soil  particles.  It  is  desirable  to 
plow  the  garden  early,  at  least  a few  days  sooner  than 
for  general  field  crops. 

Sandy  soils  will  bear  plowing  much  earher  than  heavy 
clay  soils.  The  usual  test  is  to  squeeze  together  a 
handful,  and  if  the  soil  adheres  in  a ball  it  is  too  wet 
for  working.  In  the  garden  greater  depth  of  plowing 
should  be  practiced  than  for  ordinary  farm  crops, 
as  the  roots  of  many  of  the  vegetables  go  deeply  into 
the  soil.  Subsoiling  will  be  found  advantageous  in 
most  cases,  as  the  drainage  and  general  movement 
of  the  soil  moisture  will  be  improved  thereby. 

Hand  spading  should  be  resorted  to  only  in  very 
small  gardens  or  where  it  is  desirable  to  prepare  a 
small  area  very  thoroughly. 

Smoothing  and  Pulverizing  the  Soil 

After  plowing,  the  next  Important  step  is  to  smooth 
and  pulverize  the  soil.  If  the  soil  be  well  prepared 
before  planting,  the  work  of  caring  for  the  crops  will 
be  very  materially  lessened.  It  is  not  sufficient  that 
the  land  be  smooth  and  fine  on  top,  but  the  pulverizing 
process  should  extend  as  deep  as  the  plowing.  Some 
gardeners  prefer  to  thoroughly  cut  the  land  with  a 
disk  harrow  before  plowing,  so  that  when  it  is  turned 
by  the  plow  the  bottom  soil  will  be  fine  and  mellow. 
After  the  plow  the  disk  or  cutting  harrow  is  again 
brought  into  play  and  the  pulverizing  process  com- 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


133 


pleted.  If  the  soil  is  a trifle  too  dry  and  contains 
lumps,  it  may  be  necessary  to  use  some  form  of  roller 
or  clod  crusher  to  bring  it  down.  For  smoothing  the 
surface  and  filling  up  depressions  a float  or  drag 
made  from  planks  or  scantlings  will  be  found  ser- 
viceable. 

Special  Preparation 

For  growing  certain  crops  it  has  often  been  found 
advisable  to  prepare  the  ground  in  a special  manner. 
Such  crops  as  beets,  radishes,  and  onions  are  some- 
times grown  on  beds  6 to  10  feet  in  width  and  raised 
6 to  8 inches,  with  narrow  walks  between. 

From  Baltimore  southward,  cabbage,  cauliflower, 
or  and  similar  crops  are  frequently  grown  on  top 
on  the  side  of  ridges.  When  the  plants  are  set  on 
top  of  the  ridge,  better  drainage  for  the  roots  is 
secured.  When  set  on  the  south  side  of  the  ridge, 
greater  warmth  and  earlier  maturity  will  be  secured, 
and  when  planted  on  the  north  side,  the  growth  is 
retarded.  For  growing  celery  and  a few  similar  crops 
it  has  often  been  found  advisable  to  place  the  plants 
in  furrows  or  slight  trenches  in  order  that  the  soil 
removed  may  be  available  for  working  in  around 
the  plants  as  they  mature. 

Fertilizers 

The  kind  of  fertilizer  employed  has  a marked  influence 
upon  the  character  and  quality  of  the  vegetables  pro- 
duced. For  the  garden  only  those  fertilizers  that  have 
been  carefully  prepared  should  be  used.  Fertilizers 
of  organic  composition,  such  as  barnyard  manure, 
should  have  passed  through  the  fermenting  stage  before 
being  used.  The  use  of  night  soil  generally  is  not  to 


134 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


be  recommended,  as  its  application,  unless  properly 
treated  for  the  destruction  of  disease  germs,  may  prove 
dangerous  to  health. 

Barnyard  Manure 

For  garden  crops  there  is  no  fertilizer  that  will  com- 
pare with  good,  well-rotted  barnyard  manure.  In 
localities  where  a supply  of  such  manure  can  not  be 
secured  it  will  be  necessary  to  depend  upon  commercial 
fertilizers,  but  the  results  are  rarely  so  satisfactory. 
In  selecting  manure  for  the  garden,  care  should  be 
taken  that  it  does  not  contain  any  element  that  will 
be  injurious  to  the  soil.  An  excess  of  sawdust  or  shav- 
ings used  as  bedding  will  have  a tendency  to  produce 
sourness  in  the  soil.  Chicken,  pigeon,  and  sheep  ma- 
nures rank  high  as  fertilizers,  their  value  being  some- 
what greater  than  ordinary  barnyard  manures,  and 
almost  as  great  as  some  of  the  lower  grades  of  commer- 
cial fertilizers.  The  manure  from  fowls  is  especially 
adapted  for  dropping  in  the  hills  or  rows  of  plants. 

Commercial  Fertilizers 

Commercial  fertilizers  are  sold  under  a guaranteed 
analysis,  and  generally  at  a price  consistent  with  their 
fertilizing  value.  No  definite  rule  can  be  given  for 
the  kind  or  quantity  of  fertilizer  to  be  applied,  as  this 
varies  with  the  crop  and  the  land.  At  first  the  only 
safe  procedure  is  to  use  a good  high-grade  fertilizer 
at  the  rate  of  from  1,000  to  2,000  pounds  to  the  acre 
and  note  the  results.  Market  gardeners  frequently 
apply  as  much  as  2,500  pounds  of  high-grade  fertilizer 
per  acre  each  year. 

Where  plants  are  not  to  be  transplanted  twice,  but 
remain  in  the  plant  bed  until  required  for  setting  in 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


135 


the  garden,  it  may  be  necessary  to  thin  them  somewhat. 
This  part  of  the  work  should  be  done  as  soon  as  the 
plants  are  large  enough  to  pull,  and  before  they  begin 
to  draw  or  become  spindling  from  crowding. 

When  thinnnig  plants  in  the  plant  bed  it  should  be  the 
aim  to  remove  the  centers  of  the  thick  bunches,  leaving 
the  spaces  as  uniform  as  possible.  When  thinning 
the  rows  of  seedlings  in  the  garden  the  best  plants 
should  be  allowed  to  remain,  but  due  consideration 
should  be  given  to  the  matter  of  proper  spacing.  Fail- 
ure to  thin  plants  properly  will  invariably  result  in 
the  production  of  an  inferior  crop. 

Effects  of  Transplanting 

At  the  North,  where  the  growing  season  is  short, 
it  is  necessary  to  transplant  several  of  the  garden 
crops  in  order  to  secure  strong  plants  that  will  mature 
within  the  limits  of  the  growing  season.  In  the  South- 
ern States  the  season  is  longer,  and  transplanting, 
while  desirable,  may  not  be  necessary,  as  many  crops 
that  must  be  started  indoors  at  the  North  can  be  planted 
in  the  garden  where  they  are  to  remain.  Transplant- 
ing should  be  done  as  soon  as  the  seedlings  are  large 
enough  to  handle,  and  again  when  the  plants  begin  to 
crowd  one  another. 

Aside  from  producing  more  uniform  and  hardy 
plants,  the  transplanting  process  has  several  other 
very  marked  influences.  Certain  crops  which  are 
grown  for  their  straight  roots  are  often  injured  by 
having  their  roots  bent  or  broken  in  transplanting.  On 
the  other  hand,  such  plants  as  celery,  which  at  first  have 
a straight  root  and  are  grown  for  their  tops,  are  greatly 
benefited  by  transplanting.  In  all  cases  transplanting 
has  a tendency  to  increase  the  number  of  small  roots. 


136 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


and  these  are  the  main  dependence  of  the  plant  at  the 
time  it  is  set  in  the  open  ground. 

For  further  information  on  this  subject,  see  Farmers’ 
Bulletins  Nos.  77  on  The  Liming  of  Soils,  192  on  Barn- 
yard Manure,  and  222,  Experiment  Station  Work, 
XXVIII,  which  contains  a chapter  on  the  Home 
Mixing  of  Fertilizers. 

Seeds  and  Plants  for  the  Garden 

The  supply  of  seeds  for  the  garden  should  be  secured 
some  time  in  advance  of  the  planting  season.  During 
the  winter  months  send  for  the  catalogue  of  some 
seedsman  in  your  part  of  the  country  and  make  a 
selection  of  the  kinds  and  quantities  of  seeds  that 
you  desire  to  plant.  Garden  seeds  can  frequently 
be  secured  of  some  local  dealer  who  handles  them  in 
conjunction  with  other  goods.  Many  of  the  garden 
seeds  lose  their  vitality  after  one  year’s  time,  and  old 
seeds  should,  as  a rule,  not  be  relied  upon. 

Throughout  the  Northern  States  it  is  desirable  to 
start  plants  of  certain  crops  before  the  danger  of 
frost  has  passed.  The  simplest  method  of  starting  a 
limited  number  of  early  plants  is  by  means  of  a shallow 
box  placed  in  a south  window  of  the  dwelling.  After 
the  plants  appear,  the  box  should  be  turned  each  day 
to  prevent  the  plants  drawing  toward  the  light. 

Early  Plants  in  Hotbeds 

The  most  common  method  of  starting  early  plants 
in  the  North  is  by  means  of  a hotbed.  The  hotbed 
consists  of  an  inclosure  covered  with  sash  and  supplied 
with  some  form  of  heat,  usually  fermenting  stable 
manure,  to  keep  the  plants  warm  and  in  a growing 


137 


'^THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


il 


I 


condition.  As  a rule,  the  hotbed  should  not  be  placed 
within  the  garden  inclosure,  but  near  some  frequently 
used  path  or  building  where  it  can  receive  attention 
without  interfering  with  other  work.  The  hotbed 
should  always  face  to  the  south,  and  the  south  side 
of  either  a dwelling,  barn,  tight  board  fence,  hedge, 
or  anything  affording  similar  protection,  will  furnish 
a good  location. 

In  the  North  the  hotbed  should  be  started  in  Febru- 
ary or  early  in  March,  in  order  that  such  plants  as  the 
tomato  and  early  cabbage  may  be  well  grown  in  time 
to  plant  in  the  open  ground.  There  are  two  or  three 
forms  of  hotbeds  that  are  worthy  of  description, 
and  the  plans  suggested  may  be  modified  to  suit  local 
conditions. 

A temporary  hotbed,  such  as  would  ordinarily  be 
employed  on  the  farm,  is  easily  constructed  by  the  use 
of  manure  from  the  horse  stable  as  a means  of  furnishing 
the  heat.  Select  a well-drained  location,  where  the  bed 
will  be  sheltered,  shake  out  the  manure  into  a broad, 
flat  heap,  and  thoroughly  compact  it  by  tramping. 
The  manure  heap  should  be  8 or  9 feet  wide,  18  to  24 
inches  deep  when  compacted,  and  of  any  desired  length, 
according  to  the  number  of  sash  to  be  employed.  The 
manure  for  hotbed  purposes  should  contain  sufficient 
litter,  such  as  leaves  or  straw,  to  prevent  its  packing 
soggy,  and  should  spring  slightly  when  trodden  upon. 

After  the  manure  has  been  properly  tramped  and 
leveled,  the  frames  to  support  the  sash  are  placed  in 
position  facing  toward  the  south.  These  frames  are 
generally  made  to  carry  4 standard  hotbed  sash,  and 
the  front  board  should  be  4 to  6 inches  lower  than  the 
back,  in  order  that  water  will  drain  from  the  glass. 
Three  to  five  inches  of  good  garden  loam  or  specially 


138 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


prepared  soil  is  spread  evenly  over  the  area  inclosed 
by  the  frame,  the  sash  put  on,  and  the  bed  allowed  to 
heat.  At  first  the  temperature  of  the  bed  will  run 
quite  high,  but  no  seeds  should  be  planted  until  the 
soil  temperature  falls  to  80°  F.,  which  will  be  in  about 
three  days. 

Hotbeds  having  more  or  less  permanence  may  be  so 
constructed  as  to  be  heated  either  with  fermenting 
manure,  a stove,  a brick  flue,  or  by  means  of  radiating 
pipes  supplied  with  steam  or  hot  water  from  a dwell- 
ing or  other  heating  plant.  For  a permanent  bed  in 
which  fermenting  manure  is  to  supply  the  heat,  a pit 
24  to  30  inches  in  depth  should  be  provided.  The 
sides  and  ends  of  the  pit  may  be  supported  by  brick 
walls  or  by  a lining  of  2-inch  plank  held  in  place  by 
stakes. 

Standard  hotbed  sash  are  3 by  6 feet  in  size,  and 
are  usually  constructed  of  white  pine  or  cypress.  As 
a rule,  hotbed  sash  can  be  purchased  cheaper  than  they 
can  be  made  locally,  and  are  on  sale  by  seedsmen  and 
dealers  in  garden  supplies.  In  the  colder  parts  of  the 
country,  in  addition  to  glazed  sash  either  board  shut- 
ters, straw  mats,  burlap,  or  old  carpet  will  be  required 
as  a covering  during  cold  nights.  It  is  also  desirable 
to  have  a supply  of  straw  or  loose  manure  on  hand  to 
throw  over  the  bed  in  case  of  extremely  cold  weather. 

During  bright  days  the  hotbed  will  heat  very  quickly 
from  the  sunshine  on  the  glass  and  it  will  be  necessary 
to  ventilate  during  the  early  morning  by  shghtly  raising 
the  sash  on  the  opposite  side  from  the  wind.  Care 
should  be  taken  in  ventilating  to  protect  the  plants 
from  a draft  of  cold  air.  Toward  evening  the  sash 
should  be  closed  in  order  that  the  bed  may  become 
sufficiently  warm  before  nightfall. 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


139 


Hotbeds  should  be  watered  on  bright  days  and  in  the 
morning  only.  Watering  in  the  evening  or  on  cloudy 
days  will  have  a tendency  to  chill  the  bed  and  increase 
the  danger  from  freezing.  After  watering,  the  bed 
should  be  well  ventilated  to  dry  the  foliage  of  the  plants 
and  the  surface  of  the  soil,  to  prevent  the  plants  being 
lost  by  damping-off  fungus  or  mildew. 

Early  Plants  in  Cold  Frames 

The  construction  of  cold  frames  is  the  same  as  for 
temporary  hotbeds  except  that  no  manure  or  other 
heating  material  is  provided.  Cold  frames  are  covered 
by  means  of  ordinary  hotbed  sash,  or  cotton  cloth 
may  be  substituted  for  the  sash.  In  the  North  the 
use  of  the  cold  frame  is  for  hardening  off  plants  that 
have  been  started  in  the  hotbed,  preparatory  to  setting 
them  in  the  garden.  In  the  South,  where  the  weather 
is  not  so  severe,  the  cold  frame  is  made  to  take  the  place 
of  the  hotbed  in  starting  early  plants.  The  same 
methods  of  handling  recommended  for  a hotbed  should 
apply  to  a cold  frame,  and  thorough  ventilation  should 
be  maintained. 

The  Seed  Bed 

In  the  broadest  sense  the  entire  garden  is  a seed  bed, 
as  the  seeds  of  many  of  the  crops  are  planted  where 
they  are  to  grow.  As  the  term  ^^seed  bed  is  used 
here  it  refers  to  some  specially  prepared  place  for  start- 
ing plants,  from  which  they  may  be  transplanted  to 
their  permanent  positions  in  the  garden.  The  location 
of  an  outdoor  seed  bed  should  be  such  that  it  may  be 
conveniently  reached  for  watering,  and  it  should  be 
naturally  protected  from  drying  winds. 

Good  soil  for  a seed  bed  consists  of  one  part  of  well- 


140 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


rotted  manure,  two  parts  of  good  garden  loam  or  rotted 
sods,  and  one  part  of  sharp,  fine  sand.  The  manure 
should  be  thoroughly  rotted,  but  it  should  not  have 
been  exposed  to  the  weather  and  the  strength  leached 
out  of  it.  The  addition  of  leaf  mold  or  peat  will  tend 
to  make  the  soil  better  adapted  for  seed-bed  purposes. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  together  in  a heap,  stirring 
well  with  a shovel,  after  which  the  soil  should  be  sifted 
and  placed  in  boxes  or  in  the  bed  ready  for  sowing 
the  seed. 

Weed  seeds,  and  the  spores  of  fungous  diseases  that 
are  present  in  the  soil  for  a seed  bed,  may  be  killed  by 
placing  the  soil  in  pans  and  baking  it  for  an  hour  in  a 
hot  oven. 

Seed  Sowing 

Garden  seeds  should  always  be  sown  in  straight  rows, 
regardless  of  where  the  planting  is  made.  If  a window 
box  is  employed  for  starting  early  plants  in  a dwelling, 
the  soil  should  be  well  firmed  and  then  laid  off  in  straight 
rows  about  2 inches  apart.  The  same  method  holds 
good  for  planting  seeds  in  a hotbed,  cold  frame,  or 
bed  in  the  garden,  except  that  the  rows  should  be  far- 
ther apart  than  in  the  window  box.  By  planting 
in  straight  rows  the  seedlings  will  be  more  uniform 
in  size  and  shape,  and  thinning  and  cultivating  will  be 
more  easily  accomplished.  In  all  cases  where  the 
soil  of  the  seed  bed  is  not  too  wet,  it  should  be  well 
firmed  or  pressed  down  before  laying  off  and  marking 
for  sowing  the  seeds.  After  the  seeds  are  sown  and 
covered,  the  surface  should  again  be  firmed  by  means  of 
a smooth  board. 

No  definite  rule  can  be  given  for  the  depth  to  which 
seeds  should  be  planted,  for  the  depth  should  vary 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


141 


with  the  kind  of  seed  and  with  the  character  and  condi- 
tion of  the  soil.  In  heavy  clay  and  moist  soils  the  cov- 
ering should  be  lighter  than  in  sandy  or  dry  soils.  In 
all  cases  the  depth  should  be  uniform,  and  when  plant- 
ing seeds  in  boxes  or  a bed  the  grooves  in  which  the 
seeds  are  planted  should  be  made  with  the  edge  of  a 
thin  lath. 

Care  of  the  Seed  Bed 

The  seed  bed  should  never  be  allowed  to  become  dry, 
but  great  care  should  be  taken  that  too  much  water 
is  not  applied.  Plants  require  the  action  of  air  upon 
their  roots,  and  an  excess  of  water  in  the  soil  will  exclude 
the  air.  Too  frequent  and  heavy  waterings  will  cause 
the  damping-off  of  the  seedlings. 

The  Handling  of  Plants 

Successful  transplanting  of  indoor-grown  plants  to 
the  garden  or  field  depends  largely  upon  their  proper 
treatment  during  the  two  weeks  preceding  the  time 
of  their  removal.  Spindling  and  tender  plants  will 
not  withstand  the  exposure  of  the  open  ground  so  well 
as  sturdy,  well-grown  plants,  such  as  may  be  secured 
by  proper  handling. 

Hardening  Off 

Plants  grown  in  a house,  hotbed,  or  cold  frame  will 
require  to  be  hardened  off  before  planting  in  the  garden. 
By  the  process  of  hardening  off,  the  plants  are  grad- 
ually acclimated  to  the  effects  of  the  sun  and  wind 
so  that  they  will  stand  transplanting  to  the  open 
ground.  Hardening  off  is  usually  accomplished  by 
ventilating  freely  and  by  reducing  the  amount  of  water 


142 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


f 

applied  to  the  plant  bed.  The  plant  bed  should  not 
become  so  dry  that  the  plants  will  wilt  or  be  seriously 
checked  in  their  growth.  After  a few  days  it  will 
be  possible  to  leave  the  plants  uncovered  during  the 
entire  day  and  on  mild  nights.  By  the  time  the  plants 
are  required  for  setting  in  the  garden  they  should  be 
thoroughly  acclimated  to  outdoor  conditions  and  can 
be  transplanted  with  but  few  losses. 

Special  Methods  of  Transplanting 

A large  number  of  garden  crops,  including  melons, 
cucumbers,  and  beans,  do  not  transplant  readily  from 
the  seed  bed  to  the  open  ground,  and  some  special 
means  for  handling  the  plants  must  be  employed 
where  extra  early  planting  is  desired.  A common 
practice  among  gardeners  is  to  fill  pint  or  quart  berry 
boxes  with  good  soil  and  plant  a single  hill  in  each 
box. 

Another  method  is  to  cut  sods  into  pieces  about  2 
inches  thick  and  6 inches  square  and  place  them, 
root  side  upward,  on  the  greenhouse  bench  or  in  the 
hotbed,  the  hills  being  planted  in  the  loamy  soil  held 
in  place  by  the  roots  of  the  grass.  When  the  weather 
becomes  sufficiently  warm,  and  it  is  desired  to  set  the 
plants  in  the  garden,  the  berry  boxes  or  pieces  of  sod 
are  placed  on  a flat  tray  and  carried  to  the  place  where 
the  planting  is  to  be  done.  Holes  of  sufficient  size 
and  depth  are  dug  and  the  boxes  or  sods  are  simply 
buried  at  the  points  where  it  is  desired  to  have  the  hills 
of  plants.  The  boxes  should  be  placed  a little  below 
the  surface,  and  fine  earth  worked  in  around  the  plants. 
If  it  is  thought  desirable,  the  bottoms  of  the  boxes 
may  be  cut  away  when  set  in  the  garden. 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


143 


Setting  in  the  Open  Ground 

A few  hours  before  removing  plants  from  the  seed 
bed  or  plant  bed  they  should  be  well  watered  and  the 
water  allowed  to  soak  into  the  soil.  This  will  insure 
a portion  of  the  soil  adhering  to  the  roots  and  prevent 
the  plants  from  wilting.  If  the  plants  have  been 
properly  thinned  or  transplanted  it  is  often  possible 
to  run  a knife  or  trowel  between  them,  thus  cutting 
the  soil  into  cubes  that  are  transferred  with  them  to 
the  garden. 

Where  the  soil  does  not  adhere  to  the  roots  of  the 
plants  it  is  well  to  puddle  them.  In  the  process  of 
puddling,  a hole  is  dug  in  the  earth  near  the  plant 
bed,  or  a large  pail  may  be  used  for  the  purpose; 
and  a thin  slime,  consisting  of  clay,  cow  manure,  and 
water,  is  prepared.  The  plants  are  taken  in  small 
bunches  and  their  roots  thoroughly  coated  with  this 
mixture  by  dipping  them  up  and  down  in  the  puddle 
a few  times.  Puddling  insures  a coating  of  moist 
earth  over  the  entire  root  system  of  the  plant,  prevents 
the  air  from  reaching  the  rootlets  while  on  the  way  to 
the  garden,  and  aids  in  securing  direct  contact  between 
the  roots  and  the  soil. 

Previous  to  setting  out  plants,  the  land  should  be 
worked  over  and  put  in  good  condition,  and  everything 
should  be  ready  for  quick  operations  when  a suitable 
time  arrives.  The  rows  should  be  measured  off,  but 
it  is  well  to  defer  making  the  furrows  or  digging  the 
holes  until  ready  to  plant,  in  order  to  have  the  soil 
fresh.  The  time  best  suited  for  transferring  plants 
V from  the  plant  bed  to  the  open  ground  is  when  there  is 
considerable  moisture  in  the  air  and  clouds  obscure 
the  sun,  and  if  the  plants  can  be  set  before  a shower 


144 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


there  will  be  no  difficulty  in  getting  them  to  grow. 
During  seasons  when  there  is  very  little  rain  at  plant- 
ing time,  or  in  irrigated  regions,  evening  is  the  best  time 
to  set  the  plants. 

It  is  possible  to  set  plants  in  quite  dry  soil,  provided 
the  roots  are  puddled  and  the  earth  well  packed  about 
them.  When  water  is  used  in  setting  plants  it  should 
be  applied  after  the  hole  has  been  partially  filled,  and 
the  moist  earth  should  then  be  covered  with  dry  soil 
to  prevent  baking.  Where  water  is  available  for 
irrigation  it  will  be  sufficient  to  puddle  the  roots  and 
then  irrigate  after  the  plants  are  all  in  place. 

Plants  should  be  set  a trifle  deeper  in  the  garden 
than  they  were  in  the  plant  bed.  The  majority  of 
plants  require  to  be  set  upright,  and  where  the  dibble 
is  used  for  planting,  care  should  be  taken  that  the  soil 
is  well  pressed  around  the  roots  and  no  air  spaces 
left 

Time  of  Planting 

No  definite  rule  can  be  given  regarding  the  time  for 
planting  seeds  and  plants  in  the  garden,  for  the  date 
varies  with  the  locality  and  the  time  that  it  is  desired 
to  have  the  crop  mature.  A little  practice  will  soon 
determine  when  and  how  often  sowings  should  be  made 
in  order  to  escape  frost  and  mature  the  crop  at  a 
time  when  it  will  be  most  useful.  Certain  crops  will 
not  thrive  during  the  heated  part  of  the  summer,  and 
their  time  of  planting  must  be  planned  accordingly. 

Protection  of  Plants 

Some  plants  require  protection  from  the  direct  rays 
of  the  sun  in  summer  or  from  cold  in  winter,  and  there 
are  many  that  need  special  protection  while  they  are 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDE  N 


145 


quite  small.  Seedlings  of  many  of  the  garden  crops 
are  unable  to  force  their  way  through  the  crust  formed 
on  the  soil  after  heavy  rains,  and  it  is  necessary  either 
to  break  the  crust  with  a steel  rake  or  soften  it  by 
watering. 

Protection  from  Heat 

In  parts  of  the  country  where  the  sunshine  is  ex- 
tremely hot  during  a part  of  the  summer,  some  plants, 
especially  those  that  are  grown  for  salad  purposes, 
are  benefited  by  shading.  Shading  is  often  used 
in  the  care  of  small  plants  when  they  are  first  trans- 
planted. 

Where  boards  are  available  they  can  be  used  for 
protecting  plants  that  have  been  set  in  rows  in  the  gar- 
den, by  placing  them  on  the  south  side  of  the  row  at 
an  angle  that  will  cast  a shadow  over  the  plants,  and 
holding  them  in  place  by  short  stakes  driven  in  the 
ground.  Laths,  wooden  slats,  cotton  cloth,  or  shaded 
sash  are  frequently  used  to  protect  plant  beds  from  the 
heat  of  summer. 

Protection  from  Cold 

For  protecting  plants  from  cold  in  winter  several 
kinds  of  materials  are  used,  such  as  boards,  cloth,  pine 
boughs,  straw,  manure,  or  leaves.  There  are  a num- 
ber of  crops  of  a tropical  nature  that  may  be  grown 
far  north,  provided  they  are  properly  protected  during 
the  winter. 

Several  of  the  annual  crops  can  be  matured  much 
earlier  in  the  spring  if  they  are  planted  in  the  autumn 
and  protected  during  the  winter.  Plants  of  this  kind 
can  often  be  protected  by  means  of  boards  set  at  an 
angle  on  the  north  side  of  the  row  instead  of  on  the 
south.  A mulch  of  manure,  straw,  or  leaves  forms  a 
good  protection,  but  care  should  be  taken  that  the 


146 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


mulch  does  not  contain  seeds  of  any  kind,  or  serious 
trouble  will  attend  the  further  cultivation  of  the  crop. 
Plants  are  like  animals  in  that  they  require  air,  and 
care  should  be  exercised  in  putting  on  the  winter  cover- 
ing not  to  smother  them.  Coarse,  loose  materials  are 
better  for  a winter  covering  then  fine,  easily-compacted 
substances. 

Cultivation  of  Garden  Crops 

Frequent  shallow  cultivation  should  be  employed 
for  most  garden  crops,  and  during  dry  weather  the 
depth  should  not  exceed  2 inches.  By  keeping  the 
surface  soil  well  stirred  what  is  termed  a “ dust  mulch  ” 
is  formed,  and  while  this  layer  of  finely  divided  soil  will 
become  quite  dry  it  prevents  the  escape  of  moisture 
through  the  pores  of  the  soil.  A mulch  consisting  of 
fine  manure,  clippings  from  the  lawn,  or  any  similar 
material,  spread  to  a distance  of  10  or  12  inches  around 
the  plants  will  preserve  the  moisture;  but  the  mulch 
should  not  be  so  heavy  as  to  exclude  the  air. 

A crust  forming  over  the  soil  after  a rain  or  watering 
is  detrimental  to  plant  growth,  and  should  be  broken 
up  as  soon  as  the  land  can  be  worked.  To  determine 
when  the  soil  is  sufficiently  dry  for  cultivation,  apply 
the  usual  test  of  squeezing  in  the  hand.  Sandy  soils 
can  be  worked  much  sooner  than  clay  soils  after  a rain. 
Too  much  importance  can  not  be  placed  upon  the 
matter  of  thorough  cultivation  of  the  garden,  and  if 
the  work  is  promptly  and  properly  done  there  will  be 
little  difficulty  in  controlling  weeds. 

Tools  for  Use  in  the  Garden 

There  are  a number  of  one-horse  cultivators  that  are 
especially  adapted  for  work  in  the  garden.  These 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


147 


may  be  provided  with  several  sizes  of  teeth  and  shovels, 
and  are  easily  transformed  for  various  kinds  of  work. 
In  working  the  crops  while  they  are  small,  the  harrow 
or  smaller  teeth  may  be  used,  and  later  when  the 
plants  become  larger,  the  size  of  the  shovels  may  be 
increased.  Many  gardeners,  however,  prefer  to  use  the 
harrow  teeth  at  all  times. 

When  it  is  desirable  to  ridge  up  the  soil  around  a 
crop,  the  wings,  or  hillers,  may  be  put  on  either  side  of 
the  cultivator.  A one-horse  turning  plow  is  useful  for 
running  off  rows  or  throwing  up  ridges.  Aside  from 
the  horse  tools  in  general  use  on  the  farm,  there  are  only 
one  or  two  cultivators  that  will  be  required  for  the 
garden,  and  these  are  not  expensive. 

The  outfit  of  hand  tools  for  the  garden  should  include 
a spade,  a spading  fork,  a cut-steel  rake,  a 10-foot 
measuring  pole,  a line  for  laying  off  rows,  a standard 
hoe,  a narrow  hoe,  dibbles,  a trowel,  an  assortment 
of  hand  weeders,  a watering  can,  a wheelbarrow,  and 
if  the  work  is  to  be  done  largely  by  hand  the  outfit 
should  also  include  some  form  of  wheel  hoe,  of  which 
there  are  a number  on  the  market. 

Irrigation  of  Garden  Crops 

Throughout  the  portions  of  the  country  where  rains 
occur  during  the  growing  season,  it  should  not  be  neces- 
sary to  irrigate  in  order  to  produce  the  ordinary  gar- 
den crops.  In  arid  regions,  where  irrigation  must  be 
depended  upon  for  the  production  of  crops,  the  system 
best  adapted  for  use  in  that  particular  locality  should 
be  employed  in  the  garden.  Wherever  irrigation  is 
practiced  the  water  should  not  be  applied  until  needed, 
and  then  the  soil  should  be  thoroughly  soaked. 
After  irrigation,  the  land  should  be  cultivated  as  soon 


148 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


as  the  surface  becomes  suflSciently  dry,  and  no  more 
water  should  be  applied  until  the  plants  begin  to  show 
the  need  of  additional  moisture.  Constant  or  exces- 
sive watering  is  very  detrimental  in  every  case.  Apply 
the  water  at  any  time  of  the  day  that  is  most  conven- 
ient and  when  the  plants  require  it. 

By  the  subirrigation  method  of  watering,  lines  of 
farm  drain  tiles  or  perforated  pipes  are  laid  on  a level 
a few  inches  below  the  surface  of  the  soil.  This  system 
is  especially  adapted  for  use  in  back-yard  gardens 
where  city  water  is  available  and  where  the  area  under  | 
cultivation  is  small.  Subirrigation  is  expensive  to  j 
install,  as  the  lines  of  tiles  should  be  about  3 feet  apart,  i 
or  one  line  for  each  standard  row.  By  connecting 
the  tiles  at  one  end  by  means  of  a tile  across  the  rows,  I 
the  water  may  be  discharged  into  the  tiles  at  one  point 
from  a hose,  and  will  find  its  way  to  all  parts  of  the  sys-  I 
tern,  entering  the  soil  through  the  openings.  j 

For  further  information  on  irrigation  see  Farmers’  \ 
Bulletin  No.  138,  entitled  “ Irrigation  in  Field  and  | 
Garden.” 

Precautions  to  Avoid  Attacks  of  Insects  and  Diseases 

In  the  control  of  insects  and  diseases  that  infest  , 
garden  crops  it  is  often  possible  to  accomplish  a great 
amount  of  good  by  careful  sanitary  management. 

In  the  autumn,  after  the  crops  have  been  harvested,  j 
or  as  fast  as  any  crop  is  disposed  of,  any  refuse  that 
remains  should  be  gathered  and  placed  in  the  compost 
heap,  or  burned  if  diseased  or  infested  with  insects. 
Several  of  the  garden  insects  find  protection  during  the  I 
winter  under  boards  and  any  loose  material  that  may 
remain  in  the  garden.  Dead  vines  or  leaves  of  plants  j 
are  frequently  covered  with  spores  of  diseases  that  ' 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


149 


affect  those  crops  during  the  growing  season,  and  these 
should  be  burned,  as  they  possess  very  little  fertilizing 
value. 

For  information  on  garden  insects  and  their  control, 
address  the  Bureau  of  Entomology  of  this  Department. 

The  diseases  of  garden  crops  are  too  numerous  for 
attention  in  a publication  of  this  nature.  Specific 
information  can  be  secured  by  addressing  the  Chief 
of  the  Bureau  of  Plant  Industry  of  this  Department. 

Cultural  Hints  for  Garden  Crops 
Artichoke,  Globe 

Deep,  rich  sandy  loam,  with  a liberal  supply  of  well- 
rotted  manure,  is  best  suited  for  growing  artichokes. 
Plant  the  seeds  as  soon  as  the  soil  is  warm  in  the  spring, 
and  when  the  plants  have  formed  three  or  four  leaves 
they  may  be  transplanted  to  rows  3 feet  apart  and  2 
feet  apart  in  the  row.  The  plants  do  not  produce 
until  the  second  season,  and  in  cold  localities  some  form 
of  covering  will  be  necessary  during  the  winter.  This 
crop  is  not  suited  for  cultivation  north  of  the  line  of 
zero  temperature. 

After  the  bed  is  once  established,  the  plants  may  be 
reset  each  year  by  using  the  side  shoots  from  the  base 
of  the  old  plants.  If  not  reset,  the  bed  will  continue 
to  produce  for  several  years,  but  the  burs  will  not 
I be  so  large  as  from  new  plants.  The  bur,  or  flower 
bud  is  the  part  used,  and  the  burs  should  be  gathered 
before  the  blossom  part  appears.  If  they  are  removed 
I and  no  seed  is  allowed  to  form,  the  plants  will  continue 
I to  produce  until  the  end  of  the  season. 

The  heads,  or  burs,  of  the  French  artichoke  are  pre- 
pared for  the  table  by  boiling,  and  served  with  melted 
butter  or  with  cream  dressing. 


150 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Artichoke,  Jerusalem 

The  Jerusalem  artichoke  will  grow  in  any  good 
garden  soil,  and  should  be  planted  3 to  4 feet  apart 
each  way,  with  three  or  four  small  tubers  in  a hill. 
If  large  tubers  are  used  for  planting  they  should 
be  cut  the  same  as  Irish  potatoes.  Plant  as  soon  as  the 
ground  becomes  warm  in  the  spring  and  cultivate  as 
for  corn.  A pint  of  tubers  cut  to  eyes  will  plant  about 
thirty  hills.  The  tubers  will  be  ready  for  use  in 
October,  but  may  remain  in  the  ground  and  be  dug 
at  any  time  during  the  winter. 

The  tubers  are  prepared  by  boiling  until  soft,  and  are 
served  with  butter,  or  creamed.  They  are  also  used  for 
salads  and  pickles. 

The  Jerusalem  artichoke  is  not  of  great  importance 
as  a garden  vegetable,  and  the  plant  has  a tendency 
to  become  a weed. 

Asparagus 

Asparagus  should  have  a place  in  every  home  vege 
table  garden  where  it  will  thrive.  This  crop  canfbe 
grown  on  almost  any  well-drained  soil,  but  will  do 
best  on  a deep  mellow,  sandy  loam.  There  is  little 
possibility  of  having  the  land  too  rich,  and  liberal 
applications  of  partly  rotted  barnyard  manure  should 
be  made  before  the  plants  are  set.  The  seeds  of  aspara- 
gus may  be  sown  during  the  early  spring  in  the  rows 
where  the  plants  are  to  remain,  and  the  seedlings 
thinned  to  stand  14  inches  apart  in  the  row  at  the  end 
of  the  first  season.  It  is  usually  more  satisfactory 
to  purchase  two-year-old  roots  from  some  seedsman 
or  dealer.  The  price  of  good  roots  is  generally  about 
$1.25  per  hundred,  and  one  to  two  hundred  plants 
will  be  found  sufficient  to  supply  the  ordinary  family. 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


151 


The  roots  should  be  transplanted  during  the  late 
autumn  or  early  spring. 

Before  setting  out  the  plants  the  land  should  be 
loosened  very  deeply,  either  by  subsoil  plowing  or  deep 
spading.  It  is  a good  plan  to  remove  the  topsoil,  and 
spade  manure  into  the  subsoil  to  a depth  of  14  or  16 
inches;  then  replace  the  topsoil  and  add  more  manure. 
There  are  two  methods  of  setting  an  asparagus  bed,  de- 
pending entirely  upon  the  kind  of  cultivation  to  be  em- 
ployed in  the  garden.  If  horse  tools  are  to  be  used, 
the  plants  should  be  set  in  rows  3|  feet  apart  and  14 
inches  apart  in  the  row.  On  the  other  hand,  if  the  gar- 
den space  is  limited,  the  plants  should  be  set  in  a 
solid  bed,  1 foot  apart  each  way,  and  cultivated  by 
hand.  In  setting  asparagus  the  crowns  should  be 
covered  to  a depth  of  4 or  5 inches.  At  the  North 
it  will  be  desirable  to  mulch  the  asparagus  bed  during 
the  winter  with  3 or  4 inches  of  loose  manure  or  straw. 
In  the  South  the  covering  during  the  winter  will  not 
be  necessary,  but  the  bed  should  receive  a dressing  of 
manure  or  fertilizer  at  some  time  each  year,  preferably 
in  the  autumn. 

The  part  of  the  asparagus  used  as  a vegetable  is  the 
young  shoots  that  are  thrown  up  during  the  early 
l;  spring.  The  shoots  are  removed  when  about  4 or  5 
I inches  in  length  by  cutting  slightly  below  the  sur- 
L face  of  the  ground,  but  care  should  be  taken  that  the 
' knife  is  not  thrust  at  an  angle  or  the  crowns  will  be 
injured.  If  so  desired,  the  shoots  may  be  blanched  by 
ridging  up  over  the  rows  with  loose,  sandy  soil  or  by 
allowing  the  mulch  to  remain  and  the  shoots  to  make 
their  way  through  it,  but  unblanched  asparagus  always 
has  a better  flavor  than  blanched,  is  more  easily  pro- 
duced, and  is  most  satisfactory  for  home  use.  Too 


152 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


heavy  mulching  has  a tendency  to  retard  the  growth 
of  the  shoots  by  keeping  the  ground  cold  until  late 
in  the  spring. 

No  shoots  should  be  removed  the  first  year  the  plants 
are  set  in  the  permanent  bed,  and  the  period  of  cutting 
should  be  short  the  second  year.  After  the  second 
year  the  plants  become  well  established,  and  with 
proper  fertilizing  and  care  the  bed  will  last  indefi- 
nitely. During  the  cutting  season  all  of  the  shoots 
should  be  removed,  as  the  roots  will  cease  to  throw  up 
shoots  as  soon  as  one  is  allowed  to  mature.  When 
the  shoots  become  tough  and  stringy,  or  are  no  longer 
desired  for  use,  the  cutting  should  cease  and  the  tops 
should  be  allowed  to  grow  during  the  summer.  Late 
in  the  autumn,  when  the  tops  become  dead,  they  can 
be  removed  and  burned,  the  soil  between  the  rows 
cultivated,  and  a fertilizer  or  mulch  applied.  For  full 
information,  see  Farmers’  Bulletin  No.  61,  entitled 
^ ^Asparagus  Culture.” 

There  are  several  methods  of  preparing  asparagus 
shoots  for  the  table,  the  more  common  of  which  are  as 
follows: 

(1)  Boil  the  shoots  until  tender  in  water  to  which  a 
small  quantity  of  salt  has  been  added;  serve  while  hot, 
as  greens,  with  a little  butter,  vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper. 

(2)  Boil  as  above  and  serve  either  with  plain  butter, 
or  creamed.  The  shoots  can  be  cooked  entire  or  cut 
into  short  pieces,  and  when  creamed  they  are  fre- 
quently served  on  toast. 

Beans 

Beans  thrive  best  in  a rather  warm,  sandy  loam,  but 
may  be  grown  on  almost  any  kind  of  soil.  For  the 
best  results  the  soil  should  not  be  too  rich  in  nitrogenous 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


153 


matter,  or  the  plants  will  run  to  foliage  and  stems  at  the 
expense  of  the  crop  of  pods.  Heavy  clay  soils  are 
not  well  adapted  to  bean  culture,  owing  to  the  tendency 
of  the  soil  to  bake  and  prevent  the  seedlings  from  com- 
ing up  evenly.  The  bean  does  not  draw  heavily  upon 
the  soil  and  is  suitable  for  rotation  with  other  garden 
crops. 

Beans  will  not  withstand  frost,  and  the  first  plant- 
ings in  the  spring  are  frequently  lost  in  this  manner. 
It  is  very  little  trouble,  however,  to  make  a planting 
of  beans,  and  the  first  planting  should  be  made  as 
soon  as  the  ground  is  reasonably  warm;  this  to  be 
followed  by  a second  and  a third  planting  at  intervals 
of  about  a week  or  ten  days.  It  sometimes  happens 
that  the  first  planting  will  be  killed  by  frost,  and  that 
the  second  will  come  through  the  ground  immediately 
after  the  frost  and  mature  several  days  ahead  of  those 
planted  to  replace  the  ones  that  were  killed. 

There  are  several  classes  of  edible  beans,  including 
both  climbing  and  bush  sorts,  all  of  which  are  valuable 
as  foods  and  of  great  commercial  importance.  The 
various  types  and  varieties  of  beans  are  too  numerous 
for  discussion  here,  and  a few  cultural  hints  only 
will  be  given. 

In  the  cultivation  of  beans,  the  general  rules  for  the 
care  of  garden  crops  should  be  adhered  to,  and  fre- 
quent shallow  stirring  of  the  soil  practiced.  For  a 
constant  supply  of  bunch  or  snap  beans,  successive 
plantings  should  be  made,  the  final  planting  being 
made  about  8 weeks  before  time  for  frost  in  the  autumn. 
In  the  South,  plantings  should  be  made  as  soon  as  the 
ground  begins  to  warm,  and  continue  until  hot  weather 
sets  in.  Toward  the  end  of  summer  one  or  two 
plantings  should  be  made  for  a fall  crop. 


154 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


For  the  production  of  bunch  dry  beans,  such  as  Red 
Kidney,  White  Kidney,  or  White  Marrow,  plantings 
may  be  made  almost  any  time  during  the  first  half  of 
the  summer.  This  class  of  bean  is  generally  planted 
as  late  as  possible  to  have  the  crop  ripen  just  before 
early  frost  in  the  autumn.  Bunch  beans  are  generally 
planted  in  rows  30  inches  apart,  and  the  plants  allowed 
to  stand  singly  3 or  4 inches  apart,  or  they  are  planted 
in  hills  of  3 to  5 plants  each,  12  to  15  inches  apart. 
Good  results  may  be  obtained  from  planting  Kidney 
or  Marrow  beans  in  the  cornfield  alongside  the  hills 
after  the  corn  has  been  cultivated  once  or  twice. 

Pole  beans  require  a somewhat  richer  soil  than  the 
bunch  type,  and  should  be  planted  in  hills  3 by  4 or 
4 by  4 feet,  and,  as  the  name  implies,  they  require  a pole 
or  some  similar  support.  Plant  the  seed  during  the 
early  summer.  Several  varieties  of  climbing  bean  may 
be  planted  in  the  cornfield  and  allowed  to  climb  upon 
the  hills  of  corn.  The  old-fashioned  corn  bean  belongs 
to  this  type. 

The  Lima  bean,  both  pole  and  bush,  forms  one  of  the 
most  desirable  products  of  the  garden.  This  crop 
thrives  best  when  the  soil  is  quite  rich;  in  fact,  good 
Lima  beans  can  not  be  grown  in  poor  soil.  They  should 
not  be  planted  until  the  soil  becomes  thoroughly 
warm.  Place  the  seed  in  hills,  8 or  10  to  the  hill,  and 
after  the  plants  become  established  thin  to  4 or  5. 
The  hills  should  be  4 or  5 feet  apart  for  the  pole  varie- 
ties and  2 or  3 feet  apart  for  the  dwarf  or  bunch 
varieties.  It  is  a good  plan  to  make  up  the  hill  with  a 
little  additional  manure  well  mixed  with  the  soil. 
Cover  the  beans  about  1|  inches,  placing  them  with 
the  eye  downward. 

When  planting  beans  of  any  kind,  the  seed  should  not 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


155 


be  covered  to  a greater  depth  than  2 inches  when  the 
soil  is  moderately  dry,  and  if  the  soil  is  wet,  the  cover- 
ing should  be  very  slight. 

For  additional  information  the  reader  is  referred  to 
Farmers’  Bulletin  No.  121,  entitled  “ Beans,  Peas, 
and  Other  Legumes  as  Food.” 

Beets 

The  red  garden  beet  may  be  grown  in  any  good 
soil,  but  rich  sandy  loam  will  give  the  best  results. 
Sow  the  seeds  in  the  spring  as  soon  as  danger  of  frost 
has  passed.  Beets  should  be  planted  in  drills  12  to 
18  inches  apart,  and  when  the  plants  are  well  up  they 
should  be  thinned  to  4 or  5 inches  in  the  row.  If 
desirable  to  plant  in  rows  3 feet  apart  for  horse  cultiva- 
tion, the  seeds  may  be  sown  in  a double  drill  with  6 
inches  between,  leaving  30  inches  for  cultivation.  Two 
ounces  of  beet  seed  are  required  to  plant  100  feet  of 
row,  or  5 pounds  to  the  acre.  As  a rule  each  seed 
ball  contains  more  than  one  seed,  and  this  accounts  for 
beets  coming  up  very  thickly.  The  seed  should  be 
covered  to  a depth  of  about  1 inch.  For  a succession 
of  young  beets  during  the  summer,  plantings  should  be 
made  every  4 or  5 weeks  during  the  spring  months. 
Beets  intended  for  winter  storage  should  not  be  sown 
until  late  in  the  summer,  the  crop  being  harvested  and 
stored  in  the  same  manner  as  turnips.  Sugar  beets 
are  often  substituted  for  the  ordinary  garden  beet, 
especially  for  winter  use. 

Beets  are  used  for  pickles,  or  are  boiled,  sliced,  and 
fried  in  butter,  adding  a little  vinegar  just  before  re- 
moving from  the  fire.  The  young  plants  are  used  for 
greens. 


156 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Borecole  (See  Kale) 

Brussels  Sprouts 

This  crop  is  closely  related  to  cabbage  and  cauli- 
flower, and  may  be  grown  in  the  same  manner.  Instead 
of  a single  head,  Brussels  sprouts  form  a large  number 
of  small  heads  in  the  axils  of  the  leaves.  As  the  heads 
begin  to  crowd,  the  leaves  should  be  broken  from  the 
stem  of  the  plant  to  give  them  more  room.  A few  leaves 
should  be  left  at  the  top  of  the  stem  where  the  new 
heads  are  being  formed.  Brussels  sprouts  are  more 
hardy  than  cabbage,  and  in  mild  climates  may  remain 
in  the  open  ground  all  winter,  the  heads  being  removed 
as  desired.  For  winter  use  in  cold  localities,  take  up 
plants  that  are  well  laden  with  heads  and  set  them  close 
together  in  a pit,  cold  frame,  or  cellar,  with  a little 
soil  around  the  roots.  The  uses  of  Brussels  sprouts 
are  similar  to  those  of  cabbage,  but  they  are  con- 
sidered to  be  of  a superior  flavor. 

Bur  Artichoke  (See  Artichoke,  Globe) 

Cabbage 

For  early  spring  cabbage  in  the  South,  sow  the  seeds 
in  an  outdoor  bed  and  transplant  to  the  garden  before 
January  1.  In  the  North,  plant  the  seeds  in  a hotbed 
during  February  and  set  the  plants  in  the  open  ground 
as  early  as  the  soil  can  be  worked.  For  a late  crop  in 
the  North,  plant  the  seeds  in  a bed  in  the  open  ground 
in  May  or  June  and  transplant  to  the  garden  in  July. 
Early  cabbages  require  a rich,  warm  soil  in  order  that 
they  may  mature  early.  For  late  cabbages  the  soil 
should  be  heavier  and  more  retentive  of  moisture  and 
not  so  rich  as  for  the  early  crop,  as  the  heads  are  liable 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


157 


F 

I to  burst.  Cabbages  should  be  set  in  rows  30  to  36 
I inches  apart  and  14  to  18  inches  apart  in  the  row. 
li,  Where  the  plants  are  set  out  in  the  autumn  and  allowed 
; to  remain  in  the  ground  over  winter,  they  are  usually 
placed  on  top  of  ridges.  Early  cabbage  must  be  used 
soon  after  it  has  formed  solid  heads,  as  it  will  not  keep 
during  hot  weather. 

Late  cabbage  may  be  buried  in  pits  or  stored  in  cellars 
or  specially  constructed  houses.  The  usual  method 
of  storing  cabbage  is  to  dig  a trench  about  18  inches 
deep  and  3 feet  wide  and  set  the  cabbage  upright, 
with  the  heads  close  together  and  the  roots  bedded 
in  soil.  As  cold  weather  comes  on,  the  heads  are  cov- 
ered slightly  with  straw  and  then  3 or  4 inches  of  earth 
put  on.  Slight  freezing  does  not  injure  cabbage, 
but  it  should  not  be  subjected  to  repeated  freezing  and 
thawing.  If  stored  in  a cellar  or  building,  the  heads  are 
generally  cut  from  the  stems  and  stored  on  slatted 
shelves  or  in  shallow  bins.  While  in  storage,  cabbage 
should  be  well  ventilated  and  kept  as  cool  as  possible 
without  freezing. 


Cantaloupe  (See  Melon — Muskmelon) 


Cardoon 


The  cardoon  is  a thistle-like  plant,  very  similar  in 
appearance  to  the  Globe  artichoke,  but  is  grown  as  an 
annual.  The  seeds  are  sown  in  early  spring  in  a hot- 
bed or  cold  frame,  and  the  plants  transplanted  later  to 
the  open  ground.  The  cardoon  should  be  planted  in 
rows  3 feet  apart  and  18  inches  apart  in  the  row  on 
rich  soil,  where  it  can  secure  plenty  of  moisture  and 
make  rapid  growth.  Toward  autumn  the  leaves  are 
drawn  together,  and  the  center  blanched  in  the  same 


158 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


manner  as  endive.  If  intended  for  winter  use,  the 
leaves  are  not  blanched  in  the  garden,  but  the  plants 
are  lifted  with  considerable  earth  adhering  to  the  roots 
and  stored  closely  in  a dark  pit  or  cellar  to  blanch. 

The  blanched  leaf  stems  are  used  for  making  salads, 
soups,  and  stews. 

Carrot 

The  culture  of  the  carrot  is  practically  the  same  as 
the  parsnip,  except  that  carrots  are  not  thinned  so 
much  and  are  allowed  to  grow  almost  as  thickly  as 
planted.  Carrots  should  be  dug  in  the  autumn  and 
stored  the  same  as  parsnips  or  turnips.  Any  surplus 
can  be  fed  sparingly  to  horses,  mules,  or  cattle. 

The  roots  of  the  carrot  are  used  at  all  times  of  the 
year,  mostly  in  soups,  but  they  may  be  boiled  and  served 
with  butter,  or  creamed. 

Cauliflower 

Cauliflower  requires  a rich,  moist  soil,  and  thrives  best 
under  irrigation.  Cauliflower  will  not  withstand  as 
much  frost  as  cabbage.  The  culture  is  the  same  as  for 
cabbage  until  the  heads  begin  to  develop,  after  which 
' the  leaves  may  be  tied  together  over  the  heads  in 
order  to  exclude  the  light  and  keep  the  heads  white. 

The  tender  heads  of  cauliflower  are  boiled  and  served 
with  butter,  or  creamed,  and  are  also  used  for  pickling. 

Celeriac 

A large-rooted  form  of  celery  used  for  cooking  only. 
Cultivate  the  same  as  celery,  but  banking  or  blanching 
is  not  required.  The  roots  may  remain  in  the  ground 
until  wanted  for  use,  provided  a light  covering  be 
applied  to  prevent  freezing. 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


159 


Celery 

For  the  North,  sow  the  seed  in  a hotbed  or  cold  frame 
and  transplant  to  the  open  ground.  Celery  plants  are 
generally  improved  by  transplanting  twice.  In  the 
South  the  plants  are  not  started  until  late  in  the  sum- 
mer and  the  crop  is  matured  during  the  early  winter. 
Celery  seeds  are  very  small  and  are  slow  in  germinating, 
and  the  temperature  of  the  seed  bed  should  be  kept 
low.  The  seed  bed  should  be  especially  well  prepared 
and  the  seeds  should  not  be  covered  to  a greater  depth 
then  J inch.  Watering  should  be  attended  to  very 
carefully  and  the  bed  should  not  dry  out.  After 
the  plants  are  up,  care  should  be  taken  that  the  bed 
does  not  become  too  wet  and  the  plants  damp  off. 
Five  hundred  plants  will  be  sufficient  for  the  ordinary 
family,  and  they  should  be  set  6 inches  apart  in  rows 
3 to  5 feet  apart. 

Celery  requires  a deep,  rich,  moist  soil,  with  plenty 
of  well-rotted  barnyard  manure  or  fertilizer  and  fre- 
quent shallow  cultivation.  In  the  garden,  celery  may 
be  planted  after  some  early  crop,  such  as  lettuce, 
radishes,  peas,  or  beans.  As  soon  as  the  plants  attain 
considerable  size  the  leaves  should  be  drawn  up  and  a 
httle  soil  compacted  about  the  base  of  the  plant  to 
hold  it  upright.  If  the  blanching  is  done  with  earth, 
care  should  be  taken  that  the  hearts  of  the  plants  do 
not  become  filled.  Boards,  paper,  drain  tiles,  or 
anything  that  will  exclude  the  fight  may  be  used  for 
blanching,  but  earthing  up  will  produce  the  finest 
flavor. 

Celery  may  be  kept  for  winter  use  by  banking  with 
earth  and  covering  the  tops  by  means  of  leaves  or 
straw  to  keep  it  from  freezing,  or  it  may  be  dug  and  re- 


160 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


moved  to  a cellar,  cold  frame,  vacant  hotbed,  or  pit, 
and  reset  close  together,  with  the  roots  bedded  in 
earth.  While  in  storage,  celery  should  be  kept  as  cool 
as  possible  without  freezing. 

The  blanched  stems  of  celery  are  eaten  in  the  raw 
state,  and  both  the  stems  and  enlarged  roots  are 
stewed  and  creamed.  Celery  seed  is  used  for  flavor- 
ing soups  and  pickles. 

For  further  information  on  celery  read  Farmers’ 
Bulletin  No.  148,  entitled  “ Celery  Culture.” 

Chervil 

Under  the  name  of  chervil  two  distinct  plants,  known 
as  salad  chervil  and  the  turnip-rooted  chervil,  are 
cultivated.  The  seeds  of  the  salad  chervil  are  sown  in 
spring  and  the  crop  will  thrive  on  any  good  garden 
soil.  The  seeds  of  the  turnip-rooted  chervil  should 
be  sown  in  the  early  autumn,  but  they  will  not  ger- 
minate until  the  following  spring. 

The  edible  part  of  this  plant  is  the  root,  which  some- 
what resembles  the  carrot  and  is  used  in  the  same  man- 
ner. The  leaves  are  used  the  same  as  parsley  for  gar- 
nishing and  in  flavoring  soups. 

r 

Chicory 

Chicory  is  grown  for  two  or  three  purposes.  The 
root  of  this  plant  is  the  common  adulterant  of  coffee, 
and  large  quantities  are  used  for  this  purpose.  The 
commercial  growing  of  chicory  is  confined  to  a few 
sections,  as  the  crop  will  not  thrive  on  every  kind  of 
soil. 

A deep,  rich  loam,  without  excessive  amounts  of  clay 
or  sand,  is  desirable,  and  soil  that  is  not  too  rich  in 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


161 


nitrogenous  matter  is  best  suited  to  the  production 
of  roots. 

The  roots  of  chicory  are  frequently  placed  in  soil 
under  a greenhouse  bench  or  in  a warm  cellar  and  cov- 
ered with  a foot  or  more  of  straw,  or  with  a light 
covering  of  straw  and  then  several  inches  of  warm 
manure.  Under  this  covering  the  leaves  will  be  formed 
in  a solid  head,  which  is  known  on  the  market  as 
witloof. 

Chicory  has  run  wild  in  some  parts  of  the  country 
and  is  considered  a bad  weed.  The  handsome  blue 
flowers  of  the  chicory,  which  are  borne  the  second  sea- 
son, are  very  attractive. 

As  a pot  herb,  chicory  is  used  like  spinach,  but  the 
leaves  should  be  boiled  in  two  waters  to  remove  the 
bitter  taste.  As  a salad  the  roots  are  dug  in  the  autumn 
and  planted  in  cellars  or  under  a greenhouse  bench, 
where  they  produce  an  abundance  of  blanched  leaves, 
which  are  eaten  raw.  The  blanched  leaves  are  also 
boiled  and  used  as  greens. 

Chive 

This  is  a small  onion-like  plant  having  flat,  hollow 
leaves  which  are  used  for  flavoring  soups.  The  chive 
rarely  forms  seeds,  and  it  is  propagated  by  the  bulbs, 
which  grow  in  clusters.  The  leaves  may  be  cut  freely 
and  are  soon  replaced  by  others. 

Cibol  (See  Onion) 

Citron 

The  citron  is  a type  of  watermelon  with  solid  flesh 
which  is  used  for  preserves  and  sweet  pickles.  The 
rind  of  the  watermelon  is  frequently  substituted  for 


162 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


citron.  The  cultivation  of  the  citron  is  the  same  as  for 
the  watermelon. 


Give  (See  Chive) 

Collards 

The  culture  and  uses  of  collards  are  the  same  as  for 
cabbage  and  kale.  Collards  withstand  the  heat  better 
than  either  cabbage  or  kale,  and  a type  known  as  Geor- 
gia collards  is  highly  esteemed  in  the  Southern  States. 
Collards  do  not  form  a true  head,  but  instead  a loose 
rosette  of  leaves,  which,  when  blanched,  are  very 
tender  and  of  delicate  flavor. 

Corn  Salad 

Corn  salad  is  also  known  as  lamb’s-lettuce  and  fetti- 
cus.  Sow  the  seed  during  the  early  spring  in  drills 
14  to  18  inches  apart  and  cultivate  the  same  as  for 
lettuce  or  mustard.  For  an  extra  early  crop  the  seed 
may  be  planted  during  the  autumn  and  the  plants 
covered  lightly  during  the  winter.  In  the  Southern 
States  the  covering  will  not  be  necessary  and  the  plants 
will  be  ready  for  use  during  February  and  March. 
The  leaves  are  frequently  used  in  their  natural  green 
state,  but  they  may  be  blanched  by  covering  the  rows 
with  anything  that  will  exclude  the  light.  Corn  salad 
is  used  as  a salad  in  place  of  lettuce,  or  mixed  with 
lettuce  or  water  cress.  The  flavor  of  corn  salad  is 
very  mild,  and  it  is  improved  by  mixing  with  some 
other  salad  plant  for  use.  It  is  also  boiled  with 
mustard  for  greens. 

Corn,  Sweet 

Plant  sweet  corn  as  soon  as  the  soil  is  warm  in  the 
spring,  and  make  successive  plantings  every  two  weeks 


THE  HOME  \T:GETABLE  GARDEN 


163 


until  July,  or  the  same  result  can  be  attained  to  some 
extent  by  a careful  selection  of  early,  medium,  and 
late  varieties.  Plant  the  seeds  in  drills  3 feet  apart 
and  thin  to  a single  stalk  every  10  to  14  inches,  or  plant 
5 to  6 seeds  in  hills  3 feet  apart  each  way,  and  thin  out 
to  3 to  5 stalks  in  a hill.  Cover  the  seeds  about  2 
inches  deep.  Cultivate  frequently  and  keep  down  all 
weeds,  removing  suckers  from  around  the  base  of  the 
stalk. 

Sweet  corn  should  be  planted  on  rich  land,  and  the 
method  of  cultivation  is  practically  the  same  as  for 
field  corn,  but  should  be  more  thorough.  There  are 
a number  of  good  early  varieties,  and  for  a midsummer 
and  late  sort  there  is  none  better  then  Stowell’s  Ever- 
green. 

Cress 

Under  the  name  of  cress  there  are  two  forms,  the 
water  cress  and  the  upland  cress.  The  upland  cress, 
sometimes  called  peppergrass,  is  easily  grown  from  seed 
sown  in  drills  a foot  apart.  As  the  plants  last  but  a 
short  time,  it  will  be  necessary  to  make  a sowing 
every  few  days  if  a continuous  supply  is  desired. 

Water  cress  can  be  grown  all  the  year  in  small  open 
ditches  containing  running  spring  water.  It  is  best 
and  most  easily  produced  in  water  from  rather  warm 
springs  in  limestone  regions.  A sufficient  supply  for 
family  use  can  be  grown  in  a small  spring-fed  brook, 
and  the  plants  may  be  started  either  from  small  pieces 
of  plants  or  from  seed.  Cress  is  used  in  salads,  to 
which  it  imparts  a pleasant  pungency. 

Cucumber 

The  soil  for  cucumbers  should  be  a rich  sandy  loam, 
rather  moist,  but  not  wet.  Plant  in  hills  4 feet  apart 


164 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


each  way  as  soon  as  all  danger  of  frost  is  past.  It  is  a 
good  plan  to  work  thoroughly  a shovelful  of  well- 
rotted  manure  or  a small  handful  of  fertilizer  into 
each  hill  in  addition  to  the  regular  manuring  of  the 
land.  The  manure  in  the  hill  will  give  the  plants  a 
good  start.  Cucumbers  are  frequently  planted  in 
drills  about  7 feet  apart  and  thinned  to  12  or  18  inches 
apart  in  the  row.  If  it  is  desirable  to  secure  extra 
early  cucumbers,  the  plants  may  be  started  in  a hot- 
bed and  transplanted  to  the  garden  by  means  of  berry 
boxes.  In  the  South,  cucumbers  are  planted  in  the 
open  ground  as  early  as  February  or  March.  Cucum- 
ber seedlings  are  easily  injured  by  cold,  even  where 
no  frost  occurs,  and  throughout  the  northern  part  of 
the  country  the  planting  should  be  deferred  until  the 
soil  is  warm. 

While  young,  the  cucumber  plants  are  frequently 
destroyed  by  a small  beetle  that  attacks  the  lower 
part  of  the  stem  and  the  under  side  of  the  leaves.  To 
preserve  the  plants  some  remedy  will  be  necessary, 
and  where  only  a few  hills  are  grown  for  family  use 
the  beetles  may  be  kept  off  by  covering  the  plants  with 
frames  over  which  fly  screen  or  mosquito  netting  has 
been  stretched.  Another  method  of  protecting  the 
plants  is  to  set  an  arch  of  wire  or  one-half  of  a barrel 
hoop  over  the  hill,  and  spread  a piece  of  mosquito  net- 
ting over  this  support.  The  edges  of  the  netting  may 
be  laid  down  by  covering  with  earth,  and  as  soon  as  the 
plants  are  beyond  danger  of  attack,  the  netting  may  be 
stored  for  future  use. 

For  further  information  on  the  protection  of  cucumber 
plants  from  the  striped  beetle  see  Circulars  31  and  59 
of  the  Bureau  of  Entomology. 

Cucumbers  should  receive  frequent  shallow  cultiva- 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


165 


tion  until  the  vines  begin  to  run  freely;  after  this  very 
little  attention  is  required  except  to  pull  out  stray 
weeds  as  they  may  appear.  In  order  to  keep  the  vines 
in  good  bearing  condition,  no  fruit  should  be  allowed 
to  ripen,  and  when  grown  for  pickles  the  fruits  should 
all  be  removed  while  quite  small. 

As  cucumbers  are  subject  to  several  diseases,  the  old 
vines  and  fruits  should  all  be  destroyed  and  the  crop 
should  not  be  planted  two  years  in  succession  on  the 
same  land.  As  a rule  garden  cucumbers  and  melons 
will  not  be  greatly  injured  by  diseases.  Full  informa- 
tion on  this  subject  can  be  secured  by  consulting 
Farmers’  Bulletin  No.  231,  entitled  “ Spraying  for 
Cucumber  and  Melon  Diseases.” 

Dandelion 

Sow  the  seed  of  dandelion  in  spring  in  drills  18 
inches  apart,  covering  it  | inch  deep.  Thin  the 
plants  to  about  12  inches  apart  and  give  good  clean 
cultivation  throughout  the  summer.  In  the  colder 
parts  of  the  country  it  may  be  desirable  to  mulch 
slightly  during  the  winter  to  prevent  the  plants  heav- 
ing out  of  the  soil.  Early  the  following  spring  the 
plants  will  be  ready  for  use  as  greens,  but  they  are 
greatly  improved  if  blanched  by  setting  two  boards  in 
the  form  of  an  inverted  letter  V over  the  row.  The 
blanching  not  only  makes  the  leaves  more  tender  but 
destroys  a part  of  the  bitter  taste.  Dandelion  greens 
should  be  boiled  in  two  waters  to  remove  the  bitter- 
ness. 

Eggplant 

The  plants  for  this  crop  should  be  started  and  handled 
in  the  same  manner  as  described  for  the  tomato. 


166 


ADVICE  TOjTHE  HOUSEWIFE 


After  the  weather  has  become  settled  and  the  ground 
quite  warm,  set  the  plants  in  the  garden  in  rows  3 feet 
apart  and  2 feet  apart  in  the  row.  The  soil  best  adapted 
to  the  production  of  eggplant  is  a fine,  rich  sandy  loam; 
and  it  should  be  well  drained.  Cultivate  freely  and  keep 
the  plants  growing  rapidly.  Many  growers  believe 
that  fresh  stable  manure  should  not  be  used  in  connec- 
tion with  the  growing  of  eggplant  and  that  the  land 
should  not  contain  unfermented  vegetable  matter 
to  any  extent. 

Eggplant  is  used  in  several  ways,  among  which  are 
the  following:  Peel  and  cut  into  slices  § inch  thick, 
soak  in  salt  water  1 hour;  boil  until  tender;  then  coat 
with  rolled  crackers  or  flour  and  fry  in  butter  or  fat. 
Another  method  is  to  steam  or  bake  the  eggplant 
whole  and  serve  in  the  shell,  the  pulp  being  eaten 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 


Endive 

The  endive  is  a form  of  chicory.  Sow  the  seeds 
thinly  in  drills,  and  when  the  plants  are  well  established 
thin  to  8 inches.  Water  and  cultivate  thoroughly  in 
order  that  a good  growth  of  leaves  may  be  made. 
When  the  leaves  are  6 to  8 inches  in  length,  draw  them 
together  and  tie  them  so  the  heart  will  blanch.  The 
leaves  should  not  be  tied  up  while  wet,  or  decay  will 
follow.  The  heads  should  be  used  as  soon  as  blanched. 
For  winter  use,  sow  the  seeds  rather  late  and  remove 
the  plants,  with  a ball  of  earth  adhering  to  the  roots, 
to  a cellar  or  cold  frame,  and  blanch  during  the  winter 
as  required  for  use. 

Endive  is  used  as  a salad  at  times  of  the  year  when 
lettuce  and  similar  crops  are  out  of  season. 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


167 


Fetticus  (See  Corn  Salad) 

Flag  (See  Leek) 

French  Artichoke  (See  Artichoke,  Globe) 

Garlic 

Garlic  is  closely  allied  to  the  onion,  but  will  remain 
in  the  ground  from  1 year  to  another  if  undisturbed. 
Garlic  is  planted  by  setting  the  small  bulbs,  or  cloves, 
either  in  the  autumn  or  early  spring.  The  culture  is 
practically  the  same  as  for  the  onion.  The  bulbs  are 
used  for  flavoring  purposes. 

Georgia  Collards  (See  Collards) 

German  Celery  (See  Celeriac) 

Ground  Cherry  (See  Physalis) 

Gumbo  (See  Okra) 

Horse-radish 

Horse-radish  will  thrive  best  in  a deep,  rich  soil, 
where  there  is  plenty  of  moisture.  The  rows  should 
be  3 feet  apart  and  the  plants  12  to  18  inches  apart  in 
the  row.  Tops  cut  from  large  roots  or  pieces  of  small 
rQots  are  used  for  planting.  A comparatively  few 
hills  of  horse-radish  will  be  sufficient  for  family  use, 
and  the  roots  required  for  starting  can  be  secured  of 
seedsmen  for  25  or  30  cents  a dozen.  This  crop  will 
require  no  particular  cultivation  except  to  keep  down 
the  weeds,  and  is  inclined  to  become  a weed  itself  if 
not  controlled. 

The  large  fleshy  roots  are  prepared  for  use  by  peel- 
ing and  grating.  The  grated  root  is  treated  with  a 
little  salt  and  vinegar  and  served  as  a relish  with 
meats,  oysters,  etc.  The  roots  should  be  dug  during 


168 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


the  winter  or  early  spring  before  the  leaves  start. 
After  being  treated  with  salt  and  vinegar,  the  grated 
root  may  be  bottled  for  summer  use. 

Husk  Tomato  (See  Physalis) 

Irish  Potato  (See  Potato,  Irish) 

Jerusalem  Artichoke  (See  Artichoke,  Jerusalem) 

Kale,  or  Borecole 

There  are  a large  number  of  forms  of  kale,  and 
these  are  thought  by  some  to  be  the  original  type  of  the 
cabbage.  Kale  does  not  form  a head  and  has  con- 
voluted leaves  and  thick  leaf  stems.  It  is  cultivated 
the  same  as  cabbage,  but  may  be  set  somewhat  closer. 
This  crop  is  very  hardy  and  will  live  through  the 
winter  in  the  open  ground  in  localities  where  freezing 
is  not  too  severe.  The  flavor  of  kale  is  improved  by 
frost. 

Kale  is  used  for  greens  during  the  winter,  and  as  a 
substitute  for  cabbage. 

Kohl-rabi 

Kohl-rabi  belongs  to  the  same  class  as  cabbage  and 
cauliflower,  but  presents  a marked  variation  from  either. 
It  is,  perhaps,  half-way  between  the  cabbage  and  tur- 
nip, in  that  its  edible  part  consists  of  the  swollen  stem 
of  the  plant.  For  an  early  crop,  plant  and  cultivate 
the  same  as  for  early  cabbage.  For  a late  crop  or  for 
all  seasons  in  the  South,  the  seed  may  be  sown  in  drills 
where  the  crop  is  to  be  grown,  and  thinned  to  about 
8 inches  apart  in  the  row.  The  rows  should  be  from 
18  to  36  inches  apart,  according  to  the  kind  of  cultiva- 
tion employed.  The  fleshy  stems  should  be  used  while 
they  are  young  and  quite  tender. 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN  169 


Prepare  kohl-rabi  for  the  table  in  the  same  manner 
as  turnips,  which  it  very  much  resembles  when  cooked. 

Lamb’s-Lettuce  (See  Corn  Salad) 

Leek 

This  plant  belongs  to  the  same  class  as  does  the  onion, 
but  requires  somewhat  different  treatment.  Leeks 
can  be  grown  on  any  good  garden  soil  and  are  usually 
sown  in  a shallow  trench.  The  plants  should  be  thinned 
to  stand  about  4 inches  apart  in  the  row,  and  the 
cultivation  should  be  similar  to  that  for  onions.  After 
the  plants  have  attained  almost  full  size,  the  earth  is 
drawn  around  them  to  the  height  of  6 or  8 inches  to 
blanch  the  fleshy  stem.  The  leek  does  not  form  a 
true  bulb  like  the  onion,  but  the  stem  is  uniformly 
thick  throughout.  Leeks  are  marketed  in  bunches 
like  young  onions,  and  they  may  be  stored  the  same 
as  celery  for  winter. 

Leeks  are  used  for  flavoring  purposes  and  are 
boiled  and  served  with  a cream  dressing  the  same  as 
young  onions. 

Lettuce 

^ This  crop  attains  its  best  development  in  a rich 
sandy  loam  in  which  there  is  plenty  of  organic  matter. 
Lettuce  thrives  best  during  the  early  spring  or  late 
autumn  and  will  not  withstand  the  heat  of  sum- 
mer. In  order  that  the  leaves  may  be  crisp  and  tender, 
it  is  necessary  to  force  the  growth.  The  usual  method 
of  growing  lettuce  for  home  use  is  to  sow  the  seeds 
broadcast  in  a bed  and  remove  the  leaves  from  the 
plants  as  rapidly  as  they  become  large  enough  for 
use.  A much  better  method  is  either  to  thin  or  trans- 
plant the  seedlings  and  allow  the  plants  to  form 


170 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


rather  compact  heads  and  then  cut  the  entire  plant  for 
use. 

In  the  Southern  States,  the  seeds  may  be  sown  dur- 
ing the  autumn  and  the  plants  allowed  to  remain 
in  the  ground  over  winter.  At  the  North,  the  seeds 
may  be  sown  in  a hotbed  or  cold  frame  and  the  seed- 
lings transplanted  to  the  open  ground,  or  the  seeding 
may  be  in  rows  in  the  garden  and  the  plants  thinned 
to  5 or  6 inches  in  the  row.  Lettuce  may  be  grown 
in  rows  about  12  inches  apart.  In  order  to  produce 
crisp  and  tender  lettuce  during  the  summer  months, 
it  may  be  necessary  to  provide  some  form  of  partial 
shading. 

Melon — Muskmelon, 

A sandy  loam  with  plenty  of  well-rotted  barnyard 
manure  will  be  found  to  be  adapted  to  the  cultivation 
of  the  muskmelon.  When  commercial  fertilizer  is 
used  instead  of  manure,  it  should  be  applied  at  the 
rate  of  from  500  to  1,000  pounds  of  high-grade  material 
to  the  acre.  The  muskmelon  requires  a long  season 
to  develop  and  is  easily  injured  by  frost  or  even  by 
cool  weather. 

For  an  early  crop  in  the  North,  start  the  hills  in  a 
hotbed  in  berry  boxes  and  plant  out  after  the  soil  be- 
comes warm.  For  the  main  crop  throughout  the  coun- 
try the  seeds  are  planted  in  the  open  ground  as  soon  as 
the  soil  is  reasonably  warm.  Place  the  hills  about  6 
feet  apart  each  way,  with  8 or  10  seeds  in  a hill.  After 
the  plants  become  established,  thin  out  all  but  the  four 
best  ones.  Another  method  is  to  sow  in  drills  and  thin 
to  single  plants  18  inches  to  2 feet  apart.  Good  culti- 
vation should  be  maintained  until  the  vines  interfere. 

Muskmelons  are  subject  to  a number  of  diseases. 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


171 


and  while  the  plants  are  quite  young  they  are  attacked 
by  the  cucumber  beetle.  The  same  precautionary 
measures  as  are  recommended  in  the  case  of  cucumbers 
should  be  observed  for  both  troubles. 

There  are  a number  of  good  varieties  of  muskmelons, 
and  the  Rocky  Ford,  or  Netted  Gem,  is  one  of  the  best. 

Melon — Watermelon 

The  cultivation  of  the  watermelon  is  practically  the 
same  as  for  the  muskmelon,  except  that  the  plants 
grow  larger  and  require  more  room  for  development 
than  those  of  the  muskmelon.  Watermelons  require 
that  the  soil  should  contain  a larger  percentage  of  sand 
than  muskmelons,  and  that  the  land  should  be  quite 
rich.  Watermelons  should  be  planted  10  feet  each  way 
between  the  hills,  or  in  drills  10  feet  apart  and  thinned 
to  3 feet  apart  in  the  drills.  The  watermelon  seed- 
lings must  be  protected  from  the  cucumber  beetle  until 
the  foliage  becomes  toughened. 

Multiplier  Onion  (See  Onion) 

Muskmelon  (See  Melon — Muskmelon) 

Mustard 

Almost  any  good  soil  will  produce  a crop  of  mustard. 
The  basal  leaves  of  mustard  are  used  for  greens,  and  as 
the  plants  require  but  a short  time  to  reach  the  proper 
stage  for  use,  frequent  sowings  should  be  made.  Sow 
the  seeds  thickly  in  drills  as  early  as  possible  in  the 
spring,  or  for  late  use  sow  the  seeds  in  September  or 
- October.  The  forms  of  white  mustard,  of  which  the 
leaves  are  often  curled  and  frilled,  are  generally  used. 
Mustard  greens  are  cooked  like  spinach. 


172  ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 

New  Zealand  Spinach 

The  plant  known  as  New  Zealand  spinach  is  not  a true 
spinach,  but  grows  much  larger  and  should  be  planted 
in  rows  3 feet  apart,  with  the  plants  12  to  18  inches 
apart  in  the  row.  Some  difficulty  may  be  experienced 
in  getting  the  seeds  to  germinate,  and  they  should  be 
soaked  1 or  2 hours  in  hot  water  before  planting. 
New  Zealand  spinach  is  satisfactory  for  growing  in 
warm  climates,  as  it  withstands  heat  better  than  the 
ordinary  spinach.  The  fleshy  leaves  and  tender  stems 
are  cooked  the  same  as  spinach. 

Okra,  or  Gumbo 

Sow  the  seeds  of  okra  in  the  open  after  the  ground  has 
become  quite  warm,  or  start  the  plants  in  berry  boxes 
in  a hotbed  and  transplant  them  to  the  garden  after 
all  danger  of  frost  is  past.  The  rows  should  be  4 feet 
apart  for  the  dwarf  sorts  and  5 feet  apart  for  the 
tall  kinds,  with  the  plants  2 feet  apart  in  the  row. 
Okra  does  best  in  rather  rich  land  and  requires  frequent 
shallow  cultivation  until  the  plants  cover  the  ground. 

The  young  pods  are  the  part  used,  and  these  are  em- 
ployed principally  in  soups,  to  which  they  impart  a 
pleasant  flavor  and  mucilaginous  consistency.  If  the 
pods  are  removed  from  the  plants  and  none  allowed 
to  ripen,  the  plants  will  continue  to  produce  pods  until 
killed  by  frost,  but  the  best  pods  are  grown  on  young 
plants.  Okra  pods  can  be  dried  or  canned  for  winter 
use. 

For  further  information  on  okra,  see  Farmers’ 
Bulletin  No.  232,  entitled  “ Okra:  Its  Culture  and 
Uses.” 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


173 


Onions 

A rich  sandy  loam  containing  plenty  of  humus  is 
best  suited  to  the  production  of  onions.  This  crop 
has  been  grown  very  successfully  on  the  muck  beds  of 
the  States  bordering  on  the  Great  Lakes.  The  usual 
plan  on  a small  scale  is  to  plant  1 or  2 quarts  of  “ sets  ” 
in  drills  12  to  18  inches  apart  and  2 to  3 inches  apart 
in  the  row,  covering  about  an  inch  deep.  When  a large 
acreage  is  to  be  grown  the  soil  is  made  very  fine  and 
smooth  and  the  onion  seed  is  sown  in  drills  and  then 
thinned  to  2 or  3 inches  apart  after  the  plants  become 
established.  For  the  best  results  from  seed,  sow  in 
cold  frames  during  the  fall  or  in  a hotbed  in  the  early 
spring  and  transplant  to  the  open  ground  as  soon  as 
the  soil  is  in  good  condition  to  work. 

Onions  require  frequent  shallow  cultivation  and  it 
may  be  necessary  to  resort  to  hand  work  in  order  to 
keep  tnh  crop  free  from  weeds.  If  it  is  desired  to  hasten 
the  maturity  of  the  bulbs  by  preventing  continued 
growth  of  the  tops,  this  may  be  accomplished  by  roll- 
ing f,n  empty  barrel  over  the  rows  and  breaking  down 
the  tops.  After  the  tops  are  practically  dead  the  onion 
bulbs  should  be  removed  from  the  soil  and  spread  in 
a dry,  well  ventilated  place  to  cure,  after  which  they 
may  be  stored  in  crates  or  bags  for  winter  use. 

There  are  several  kinds  of  onions  that  may  remain 
in  the  soil  over  winter.  The  Multiplier  or  Potato  onion 
can  be  planted  from  sets  in  the  autumn  and  will  pro- 
duce excellent  early  green  onions.  This  type  of  onion 
is  peculiar  in  that  a large  onion  contains  a number  of 
distinct  hearts,  and  if  planted  will  produce  a number 
of  small  onions.  On  the  other  hand,  a small  onion 
contains  but  one  heart  and  will  produce  a large  onion. 


174 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


A few  large  onions  should  be  planted  each  year  to 
produce  the  sets  for  the  following  year’s  planting. 

Another  variety  is  the  Top  or  Tree  onion,  which 
produces  a large  number  of  bulblets  above  ground  on 
the  top  of  a stem.  The  small  bulbs  can  be  planted 
in  the  autumn  and  will  produce  onions  the  following 
season. 

The  small  onion,  known  as  the  shallot,  is  frequently 
planted  in  early  spring  for  its  small  bulbs,  or  “ cloves,” 
which  are  used  in  the  same  manner  as  onions.  The 
leaves  are  also  used  for  flavoring. 

The  cibol  or  Welsh  onion  is  grown  either  from  seeds 
or  bulbs.  Where  the  climate  is  not  severe,  the  seed 
may  be  sown  in  the  autumn,  and  the  leaves,  which  are 
used  for  flavoring  soups,  will  be  ready  for  use  in  the 
spring. 

For  additional  information  on  the  onion,  see  Farmers’ 
Bulletin  No,  39,  entitled  “ Onion  Culture.” 

Oyster-plant  (See  Salsify) 

Parsley 

After  soaking  the  seeds  of  parsley  for  a few  hours 
in  warm  water,  they  may  be  sown  in  the  same  manner 
as  celery  seed  and  the  plants  transplanted  to  the  open 
ground.  At  the  North,  parsley  will  live  over  winter 
in  a cold  frame  or  pit,  and  in  the  South  it  will  thrive 
in  the  open  ground  during  the  winter,  but  it  can  not 
withstand  the  heat  of  summer.  The  plants  should 
be  set  in  rows  12  inches  apart  and  every  4 inches  in 
the  row. 

The  leaves  of  parsley  are  used  for  garnishings  around 
meats  and  for  flavoring  soups. 


^ THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


175 


Parsnip 

Sow  the  seeds  of  parsnips  as  early  as  convenient  in 
the  spring  in  drills  18  inches  to  3 feet  apart.  Thin  the 
plants  to  stand  3 inches  apart  in  the  rows.  The  pars- 
nip requires  a rich  soil  and  frequent  cultivation.  The 
roots  can  be  dug  late  in  the  fall  and  stored  in  cellars  or 
pits,  or  allowed  to  remain  where  grown  and  dug  as 
required  for  use.  It  is  considered  best  to  allow  the 
roots  to  become  frozen  in  the  ground,  as  the  freezing 
improves  their  flavor.  As  soon  as  the  roots  begin  to 
grow  the  following  spring  they  will  no  longer  be  fit  for 
use.  All  roots  not  used  during  the  winter  should  be 
dug  and  removed  from  the  garden,  as  they  will  produce 
seed  the  second  season  and  become  of  a weedy  nature. 
When  the  parsnip  has  been  allowed  to  run  wild  the  root 
is  considered  to  be  poisonous. 

To  prepare  parsnip  for  the  table,  .boil  the  roots  until 
tender  and  then  cut  in  slices  and  brown  in  butter. 
They  may  also  be  roasted  with  meat  the  same  as  pota- 
toes. 

Peas 

Garden  peas  require  a rather  rich  and  friable  soil  with 
good  drainage  in  order  that  the  first  plantings  may  be 
made  early  in  the  spring.  Fertilizers  that  are  high 
in  nitrogenous  matter  should  not  be  applied  to  the 
land  immediately  before  planting,  as  they  will  have  a 
tendency  to  produce  too  great  growth  of  vines  at  the 
expense  of  pods.  Land  that  has  been  well  manured 
the  previous  year  will  be  found  satisfactory  without 
additional  fertilizer.  A sandy  loam  is  to  be  preferred 
for  growing  peas,  but  a good  crop  may  be  produced 
on  clay  soils;  however,  the  pods  will  be  a few  days  later 


176 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


in  forming.  Peas  are  easily  grown  and  form  one  of  the 
most  palatable  of  garden  products. 

The  first  plantings  should  be  of  such  varieties  as 
Alaska  or  Gradus,  which  make  a small  but  quick 
growth,  and  may  or  may  not  be  provided  with  sup- 
ports. The  dwarf  sorts  like  American  Wonder  come 
on  later,  require  very  little  care,  and  produce  peas  of 
fine  quality.  The  tall-growing  sorts  of  the  Telephone 
type  are  desirable  for  still  later  use  on  account  of 
their  large  production  and  excellent  quality.  Sugar 
peas  have  tender  pods  and  if  gathered  very  young  the 
pods  may  be  eaten  in  the  same  manner  as  snap  beans. 
In  order  to  maintain  a continuous  supply  of  fresh 
peas,  plantings  should  be  made  every  10  days  or  2 
weeks  during  the  spring  months,  beginning  as  soon  as 
the  ground  can  be  worked.  In  the  extreme  South  peas 
may  be  grown  during  the  entire  winter. 

For  the  best  results  peas  should  be  planted  in  the 
bottom  of  a furrow  6 inches  in  depth  and  the  seeds 
covered  with  not  more  than  2 or  3 inches  of  soil.  If 
the  soil  is  heavy,  the  covering  should  be  less  than 
2 inches.  After  the  plants  attain  a height  of  4 or  5 
inches  the  soil  should  be  worked  in  around  them  until 
the  trench  is  filled.  The  rows  for  peas  should  be  3 
feet  apart  for  the  dwarf  sorts  and  4 feet  apart  for  the 
tall  kinds.  A pint  of  seed  will  plant  about  100  feet 
of  single  row.  Many  growers  follow  the  practice  of 
planting  in  a double  row  with  a 6-inch  space  between. 
The  double-row  method  is  especially  adapted  for  the 
varieties  that  require  some  form  of  support,  as  a trellis 
can  be  placed  between  the  two  rows. 

Brush  stuck  in  the  ground  will  answer  for  a support 
for  the  peas  to  climb  upon.  Three-foot  poultry  netting 
makes  a desirable  trellis.  If  peas  are  planted  for 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


177 


autumn  use,  the  earliest  varieties  should  be  em- 
ployed. 

Peppers 

Plant  the  seed  of  peppers  in  a hotbed,  and  transplant 
to  the  open  ground  as  soon  as  it  is  warm,  or  sow  the 
seeds  in  the  garden  after  all  danger  of  frost  is  past. 
When  grown  in  the  garden,  the  plants  should  be  in  rows 
3 feet  apart  and  15  to  18  inches  apart  in  the  row. 
The  plants  require  about  the  same  treatment  as  the 
tomato.  There  are  a large  number  of  varieties  of  the 
pepper,  including  the  large  sweet  sorts  used  for  pickling 
and  the  small  hot  kinds,  such  as  Chili,  Tabasco,  and 
Cayenne. 

Peppergrass  (See  Cress) 

Physalis 

The  physalis  is  also  known  as  the  ground-cherry  or 
husk-tomato.  Sow  the  seed  in  a hotbed  or  cold  frame 
and  transplant  to  the  garden  after  danger  of  frost  is 
past,  or  the  seeds  may  be  sown  in  the  row  where  the 
plants  are  to  remain  and  thinned  to  12  or  18  inches. 
No  particular  care  is  required  except  to  keep  them  free 
from  weeds.  There  are  a large  number  of  varieties 
of  the  physalis,  and  the  fruits  vary  in  size  and  color. 
The  variety  commonly  used  in  gardens  produces  a 
bright-yellow  fruit,  which  is  about  the  size  of  an  ordi- 
nary cherry.  Toward  fall  the  fruits  will  drop  to  the 
ground  and  will  be  protected  for  some  time  by  their 
husks.  If  gathered  and  placed  in  a cool  place  the  fruits 
will  keep  for  a long  time.  The  physalis  will  self-sow 
and  may  become  a weed,  but  it  is  easily  controlled. 
A few  of  the  volunteer  plants  may  be  lifted  in  the  spring, 
and  placed  in  rows  instead  of  making  a special  sowing 


178 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


of  seed.  Ten  plants  will  produce  all  the  husk-tomatoes 
desired  by  the  average  family.  The  fruits  are  excel- 
lent for  making  preserves  and  marmalade. 

Pie-plant  (See  Rhubarb) 

Potato,  Irish 

A rich,  sandy  loam  is  best  suited  to  the  production 
of  Irish  potatoes,  and  the  fertilizers  employed  should 
contain  high  percentages  of  potash.  The  main  crop 
of  Irish  potatoes  for  family  use  should  be  grown  else- 
where, but  a small  area  of  early  ones  properly  belongs 
in  the  garden.  The  preparation  of  the  soil  should  be 
the  same  as  for  general  garden  crops. 

Early  potatoes  should  be  planted  as  early  in  the  spring 
as  it  is  feasible  to  work  the  land,  irrespective  of  locality. 
This  will  require  planting  in  January  in  the  extreme 
Southern  States,  and  as  late  as  May  in  the  extreme 
Northern  States.  Late  potatoes  are  extensively  grown 
in  the  North,  and  the  planting  should  be  done  late  in 
May  or  during  June.  The  rows  should  be  2|  to  3 
feet  apart,  and  the  hills  14  to  18  inches  apart  in  the  row. 
Lay  off  the  rows  with  a one-horse  plow  or  lister,  and 
^rop  the  seed,  one  or  two  pieces  in  a place,  in  the 
bottom  of  the  furrow.  Cover  the  seed  to  a depth  of 
about  4 inches,  using  a hoe  or  a one-horse  plow  for  the 
purpose.  One  to  three  weeks  will  be  required  for  the 
potatoes  to  come  up,  depending  entirely  upon  the 
temperature  of  the  soil.  The  ground  may  freeze 
slightly  after  the  planting  has  been  done,  but  so  long 
as  the  frost  does  not  reach  the  seed  potatoes  no  harm 
will  result,  and  growth  will  begin  as  soon  as  the  soil 
becomes  sufficiently  warm. 

As  soon  as  the  potatoes  appear  above  the  ground 
and  the  rows  can  be  followed,  the  surface  soil  should  be 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


179 


well  stirred  by  means  of  one  of  the  harrow-toothed 
cultivators.  Good  cultivation  should  be  maintained 
throughout  the  growing  season,  with  occasional  hand 
hoeing,  if  necessary,  to  keep  the  ground  free  from  weeds. 
Toward  the  last  the  soil  may  be  well  worked  up  around 
the  plants  to  hold  them  erect  and  protect  the  tubers 
from  the  sun  after  the  vines  begin  to  die. 

After  digging  the  potatoes  they  should  not  be  allowed 
to  lie  exposed  to  the  sun  or  to  any  light  while  in  storage, 
as  they  soon  become  green  and  unfit  for  table  use. 
Early  potatoes  especially  should  not  be  stored  in  a damp 
place  during  the  heated  part  of  the  summer,  and 
will  keep  best  if  covered  with  straw  in  a cool,  shady 
shed  until  the  autumn  weather  sets  in,  after  which 
they  can  be  placed  in  a dry  cellar  or  buried  in  the  open 
ground.  The  ideal  temperature  for  keeping  Irish 
potatoes  is  between  36°  and  40°  F.,  but  they  will  not 
withstand  any  freezing. 

Potato  Onion  (See  Onion) 

Potato,  Sweet 

The  sweet  potato  is  of  a tropical  nature  and  succeeds 
best  in  the  warm,  sandy  loam  soils  of  the  Southern 
States.  Sweet  potatoes  are,  however,  grown  commer- 
cially as  far  north  as  the  southern  line  of  the  State  of 
Pennsylvania,  and  for  family  use  even  in  southern  New 
York  and  Michigan.  A warm,  loose  sandy  soil  is  best 
adapted  to  the  production  of  sweet  potatoes,  and  good 
drainage  is  essential.  In  order  to  improve  the  drainage 
conditions,  it  is  customary  to  set  the  plants  on  top  of 
ridges  which  are'  thrown  up  by  means  of  a plow,  two 
furrows  being  turned  together.  For  best  results  the 
soil  should  be  well  fertilized  throughout,  but  in  com- 


180 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


mercial  sweet  potato  culture  the  plan  is  frequently- 
adopted  of  placing  the  fertilizer  or  manure  in  a furrow 
and  then  turning  the  ridge  up  over  it.  The  manure 
should  be  evenly  distributed,  and  it  is  advisable  to 
run  a cultivator  once  or  twice  in  the  furrow  to  miv 
the  manure  with  the  soil.  Too  much  manure  in  one 
spot  under  the  hill  will  produce  a large  growth  of  vine 
at  the  expense  of  the  potatoes. 

Toward  the  northern  part  of  the  area  over  which 
sweet  potatoes  are  grown  it  is  necessary  to  start  the 
plants  in  a hotbed  in  order  that  the  length  of  season 
may  be  sufficient  to  mature  the  crop.  The  roots 
that  are  too  small  for  marketing  are  used  for  seed,  and 
these  are  bedded  close  together  in  the  hotbed  and  cov- 
ered with  about  2 inches  of  sand  or  fine  soil,  such  as 
leaf  mold.  The  seed  should  be  bedded  about  5 or 
6 weeks  before  it  will  be  safe  to  set  the  plants  in  the 
open  ground,  which  is  usually  about  May  15  or  May  20. 
Toward  the  last  the  hotbed  should  be  ventilated  very 
freely  in  order  to  harden  off  the  plants. 

The  ridges  for  planting  sweet  potatoes  should  be  3 
to  5 feet  apart  and  the  plants  about  14  inches  apart  in 
the  row.  Cultivate  sufficiently  to  keep  the  surface 
soil  loose  and  free  from  weeds,  and  the  vines  will  soon 
cover  the  ground,  after  which  no  cultivation  will  be 
necessary.  In  the  warmer  parts  of  the  country  the 
seed  is  not  bedded,  but  is  cut  in  small  pieces  and  planted 
in  the  ridges  instead  of  plants.  After  the  plants  come 
up  and  begin  to  make  vines  freely,  pieces  of  the  vines 
are  removed  and  used  as  cuttings  for  planting  addi- 
tional areas,  the  cuttings  taking  root  and  growing 
the  same  as  plants  grown  from  seed.  In  this  manner 
3 and  4 plantings  are  made,  the  last  being  as  late  as  the 
middle  of  July.  If  a rainy  spell  be  selected  for  making 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


181 


and  planting  the  cuttings,  very  few  will  fail  to  grow, 
and  an  excellent  crop  may  be  produced. 

To  the  north,  sweet  potatoes  are  dug  as  soon  as  the 
vines  are  nipped  by  frost.  In  the  South  the  potatoes 
are  allowed  to  remain  in  the  ground  until  a convenient 
time  for  handling  them,  and  in  Florida  or  Texas  they 
are  frequently  left  until  required  for  use.  Sweet  pota- 
toes should  be  dug  on  a bright,  drying  day  when  the 
soil  is  not  too  wet.  On  a small  scale  they  may  be  dug 
with  a spading  fork,  and  great  care  should  be  taken  that 
the  roots  do  not  become  bruised  or  injured  in  the  proc- 
ess of  handling.  It  is  desirable  that  the  roots  should 
lie  exposed  for  2 or  3 hours  to  dry  thoroughly,  after 
which  they  may  be  placed  in  a warm,  well  ventilated 
room  to  cure  for  several  days.  The  proper  temperature 
for  curing  sweet  potatoes  is  from  80°  to  90°  F.  and 
45°  or  55°  F.  afterwards.  A small  crop  may  be  cured 
around  the  kitchen  stove,  and  later  stored  in  a dry  room 
where  there  will  be  no  danger  of  their  becoming  too 
cold.  Sweet  potatoes  should  be  handled  as  little  as 
possible,  especially  after  they  have  been  cured. 

Sweet  potatoes  are  used  the  same  as  Irish  potatoes, 
and  may  also  be  employed  in  making  pies  the  same  as 
squash.  For  further  information  the  reader  should 
obtain  Farmers’  Bulletin  No.  129,  entitled  Sweet 
Potatoes.” 

Pumpkin 

The  true  pumpkin  is  hardly  to  be  considered  as  a 
garden  crop,  and,  as  a rule,  should  be  planted  among 
the  field  corn.  Plant  where  the  hills  of  corn  are  miss- 
ing and  cultivate  with  the  corn. 


182 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Radish 

The  radish  is  quite  hardy  and  may  be  grown  through- 
out the  winter  in  hotbeds  at  the  North,  in  cold  frames 
in  the  latitude  of  Washington,  and  in  the  open  ground 
in  the  South.  For  the  home  garden  the  seed  should 
be  sown  in  the  open  ground  as  soon  as  the  soil  is  mod- 
erately warm.  Plant  in  drills,  12  to  18  inches  apart, 
and  as  soon  as  the  plants  are  up,  thin  them  slightly  to 
prevent  crowding.  Radishes  require  to  be  grown  on  a 
quick,  rich  soil,  and  some  of  the  earlier  sorts  can  be 
matured  in  2 to  3 weeks  after  planting.  If  the  radishes 
grow  slowly  they  will  have  a pungent  flavor  and  will 
not^be  fit  for  table  use.  For  a constant  supply  suc- 
cessive plantings  should  be  made  every  2 weeks,  as 
the  roots  lose  their  crispness  and  delicate  flavor  if 
allowed  to  remain  long  in  the  open  ground.  As  a rule  a 
large  percentage  of  radish  seed  will  grow,  and  it  is  often 
possible  by  careful  sowing  to  avoid  the  necessity  of 
thinning,  the  first  radishes  being  pulled  as  soon  as 
they  are  of  sufficient  size  for  table  use,  thus  making 
room  for  those  that  are  a little  later.  Radishes  will 
not  endure  hot  weather  and  are  suited  to  early  spring 
and  late  autumn  planting. 

There  are  a number  of  varieties  of  winter  radishes, 
the  seed  of  which  may  be  planted  the  latter  part  of 
summer  and  the  roots  pulled  and  stored  for  winter  use. 
These  roots  should  remain  in  the  ground  as  long  as  pos- 
sible without  frosting  and  should  then  be  dug  and 
stored  the  same  as  turnips.  This  type  of  radish  will 
not  compare  with  the  earlier  summer  varieties,  which 
may  be  easily  grown  in  a hotbed  or  cold  frame  during 
the  winter.  One  ounce  of  radish  seed  is  sufficient  to 
plant  100  feet  of  row,  and  when  grown  on  a large 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


183 


scale  10  to  12  pounds  of  seed  will  be  required  to  the 
acre. 

Rhubarb 

The  soil  for  rhubard  should  be  deep,  and  there  is  little 
danger  of  having  it  too  rich.  Like  asparagus  the  seed- 
ling plants  of  rhubarb  can  be  grown  and  transplanted. 
Ten  to  twelve  good  hills  are  sufficient  to  produce  all 
the  rhubard  required  by  the  average  family,  and 
these  are  most  easily  established  by  planting  pieces  of 
roots  taken  from  another  bed.  Good  roots  may  be 
secured  from  dealers  and  seedsmen  at  about  $1.50  a 
dozen.  The  old  hills  may  be  divided  in  the  early 
spring  or  late  fall  by  digging  away  the  earth  on  one 
side  and  cutting  the  hill  in  two  with  a sharp  spade, 
the  part  removed  being  used  to  establish  a new  hill. 

The  usual  method  of  planting  rhubarb  is  to  set  the 
plants  in  a single  row  along  the  garden  fence,  and  the 
hills  should  be  about  4 feet  apart.  If  more  than  one 
row  is  planted  the  hills  should  be  31  or  4 feet  each  way. 
The  jthick  leaf  stems  are  the  part  used,  and  none 
should  be  pulled  from  the  plants  the  first  year  after 
setting.  Rhubarb  should  receive  the  same  treatment 
during  winter  as  asparagus,  and  the  plants  should  never 
be  allowed  to  ripen  seed.  The  roots  may  be  brought 
into  the  greenhouse,  pit,  cold  frame,  or  cellar  during 
the  winter  and  forced.  Rhubarb  does  not  thrive  in 
warm  climates. 

The  use  of  rhubarb  is  principally  during  the  early 
spring  for  making  pies  and  sauces,  and  the  stems 
may  be  canned  for  winter  use. 

Ruta-baga 

The  culture  of  the  ruta-baga  is  the  same  as  for  the 
turnip,  except  that  the  former  requires  more  room  and  a 


184 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


longer  period  for  its  growth.  The  roots  are  quite 
hardy  and  will  withstand  considerable  frost.  The  ruta- 
baga is  used  like  the  turnip,  and  also  for  stock  feed. 
Two  pounds  of  seed  are  required  for  one  acre. 

Salad  Chervil  (See  Chervil) 

Salsify,  or  Vegetable  Oyster 

Sow  seeds  of  salsify  during  the  spring  in  the  same 
manner  as  for  parsnips  or  carrots.  At  the  South,  a 
sowing  may  be  made  in  summer  to  produce  roots  for 
winter  use.  One  ounce  of  seed  is  required  to  plant 
100  feet  of  row,  and  on  a large  scale  10  pounds  to  the 
acre.  After  the  plants  are  well  established  they  should 
be  thinned  sufficiently  to  prevent  their  crowding. 
The  cultivation  should  be  the  same  as  for  parsnips 
or  carrots,  and  frequent  use  of  a wheel  hoe  will  avoid 
the  necessity  for  hand  weeding.  Salsify  may  be  dug 
in  the  autumn  and  stored  or  allowed  to  remain  in  the 
ground  during  the  winter,  as  its  treatment  is  the  same 
as  for  parsnips.  Salsify  is  a biennial,  and  if  the  roots 
are  not  dug  before  the  second  season  they  will  throw 
up  stems  and  produce  seed.  It  is  of  a weedy  nature 
and  care  should  be  taken  that  it  does  run  wild  by  seed- 
ing freely. 

Salsify  is  deserving  of  more  general  cultivation,  as  it 
is  one  of  the  more  desirable  of  the  root  crops  for  the 
garden.  The  uses  of  salsify  are  similar  to  those  of  the 
parsnip,  and  when  boiled  and  afterwards  coated  with 
rolled  crackers  and  fried  in  butter  it  has  a decided  oyster 
flavor,  from  which  the  name  vegetable  oyster  is  derived. 

Scallion  (See  Onion) 

Shallot  (See  Onion) 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


185 


Spinach 

Spinach  thrives  in  a rather  cool  climate  and  attains 
its  best  development  in  the  Middle  South,  where  it 
can  be  grown  in  the  open  ground  during  the  winter. 
Large  areas  of  spinach  are  grown  near  Norfolk,  Va., 
cuttings  being  made  at  any  time  during  the  winter 
when  the  fields  are  not  frozen  or  covered  with  snow. 
When  the  weather  moderates  in  the  early  spring,  the 
plants  make  a new  growth,  and  a large  crop  of  early 
greens  is  available.  North  of  the  latitude  of  Nor- 
folk, spinach  can  be  planted  in  the  autumn  and  carried 
over  winter  by  mulching  with  straw  or  leaves.  Sow 
the  seeds  of  spinach  in  drills  1 foot  apart  at  the  rate  of 
1 ounce  to  100  feet  of  row  or  10  to  12  pounds  to  the 
acre.  To  produce  good  spinach,  a rich  loam  which 
will  give  the  plants  a quick  growth  is  required.  As 
ordinarily  grown,  spinach  occupies  the  land  during 
the  autumn  and  winter  only  and  does  not  interfere 
with  summer  cultivation. 

Spinach  is  an  easily  grown  garden  crop,  and  there  is, 
perhaps,  no  other  of  its  kind  that  will  give  as  good 
satisfaction.  Three  or  four  ounces  of  seed,  planted 
in  the  autumn  after  a summer  crop  has  been  harvested 
from  the  land,  will  produce  an  abundance  of  greens 
for  the  average  family  during  the  late  autumn  and  early 
spring.  In  gathering  spinach  the  entire  plant  is 
removed  rather  than  merely  cutting  off  the  leaves. 
The  larger  plants  are  selected  first,  and  the  smaller 
or  later  ones  are  thus  given  room  to  develop.  No 
thinning  is  required  if  this  plan  of  harvesting  is  prac- 
ticed. 

Squash 

There  are  two  types  of  the  squash,  the  bush  varie- 
ties, which  may  be  planted  in  hills  4 or  5 feet  apart 


1S6 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


each  way,  and  the  running  varieties,  which  will  require 
from  8 to  16  feet  for  their  development.  Squashes 
may  properly  be  grown  in  the  garden,  as  3 or  4 hills 
will  produce  all  that  are  required  for  family  use.  They 
require  practically  the  same  soil  and  cultural  methods 
as  the  muskmelon.  A number  of  varieties  are  used 
during  the  summer  in  the  same  manner  as  vegetable 
marrow,  but  squashes  are  principally  used  during  the 
winter,  in  much  the  same  way  as  pumpkins,  to  which 
they  are  superior  in  many  respects.  Squashes  are  also 
used  extensively  for  pie  purposes.  The  varieties  known 
as  Hubbard  and  Boston  Marrow  are  most  commonly 
grown. 

Squashes,  like  pumpkins,  should  be  handled  carefully 
to  avoid  bruising,  and  should  be  stored  in  a moderately 
warm  but  well  ventilated  room. 

Sweet  Potato  (See  Potato,  Sweet) 

Sweet  Corn  (See  Corn,  Sweet) 

Tomato 

At  the  North  it  is  very  desirable  to  start  tomato 
plants  in  a house  or  in  a hotbed,  and  transplant  once 
or  twice  in  order  to  secure  strong,  vigorous  plants 
by  the  time  all  danger  from  frost  has  passed.  In  the 
South  the  plants  are  started  in  cold  frames  or  in  beds 
in  the  open  ground  and  protected  by  cotton  cloth  dur- 
ing the  cool  weather.  In  the  southern  parts  of  Florida 
and  Texas  large  fields  of  tomatoes  are  planted  in  the 
same  manner  as  corn,  by  placing  five  or  six  seeds  in  a 
hill  where  the  plants  are  to  be  grown.  After  the  seed- 
lings become  established,  all  but  the  two  best  are 
thinned  out,  and  later  but  one  is  left  in  the  hill. 

The  tomato  is  one  of  the  crops  that  can  be  hastened 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


187 


to  maturity  by  carefully  growing  the  plants  indoors 
and  transplanting  to  the  open  ground.  Pot-grown 
plants  are  especially  desirable,  and  they  may  be  brought 
to  the  blooming  period  by  the  time  it  is  warm  enough 
to  plant  them  safely  in  the  garden.  If  the  plants  are 
not  to^be  trained,  but  allowed  to  lie  on  the  ground, 
they  should  be  set-,  about  4 feet  apart  each  way.  If 
trimmed  and  tied  to  stakes,  they  may  be  planted  in 
rows  3 feet  apart,  and  18  inches  apart  in  the  row. 

The  tomato  is  one  of  the  American  vegetables  that 
have  come  into  general  use  during  the  past  half  century 
and  it  now  forms  one  of  the  most  important  of  our 
garden  crops.  The  uses  of  the  tomato  are  too  numer- 
ous and  too  well  known  to  require  attention  here. 
For  complete  information  regarding  this  vegetable, 
read  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  220,  entitled  Tomatoes." 

Top  Onion  (See  Onion) 

Tree  Onion  (See  Onion) 

Turnip 

The  turnip  requires  a rich  soil,  and  may  be  grown 
either  as  an  early  or  a late  crop.  For  an  early  crop, 
sow  the  seeds  in  drills  12  to  18  inches  apart  as  earl}^ 
in  the  spring  as  the  condition  of  the  soil  will  permit. 
Two  pounds  of  seed  are  required  to  plant  an  acre. 
After  the  plants  appear,  thin  to  about  3 inches.  The 
roots  will  be  ready  for  use  before  hot , weather.  For 
late  turnips  the  seeds  are  usually  sown  broadcast  on 
land  from  which  some  early  crop  has  been  removed, 
generally  during  July  or  August,  but  later  in  the  South. 
Turnips  are  quite  hardy  and  the  roots  need  not  be 
gathered  until  after  several  frosts.  Turnips  may  be 
stored  in  a cellar  or  buried  in  a pit  outside.  Before 
storing,  the  tops  should  be  removed. 


Quantity  of  seeds  or  number  of  plants  required  for  a row  100  feet  in  length,  with  distances  to  plant,  times  for  planting,  and  period  reguired  for  production 

of  crop. 

Brackets  Indicate  that  a late  or  second  crop  may  be  planted  the  same  season. 


188 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


OQ  00  00  • oa 

'O'O  'Ofl'O 

oo  o 2o 

<NCO  CO  Sri 

r-(T-l  T-t  ”r-l 

II  I <0  I 

OO  O I »o 

050  010!> 


^ ^ 

C9  oQ  eS 

-a  -o  *0 

o o o 

CO  *0 


•uS 

00 

jrt  W CO 

goo  DO 
I ooo 


““3 

-si 

"2  0.0)  . Oia)-75  g 

:-<a^Q 

oo"®s*''®SS 

w;  C3  o c3  CU 

Art  a a 0342 

P,Q3;2o)!5X)c3a»M§C5 

h^fs<  HsO 


23 

• Ut 

O .Q 

1.4  O 

- Pi  pDf 

- c”o3 


c ^ 


03  ”42.0^05 


•cz:  .•^■ga’S 

’d’O^^  g a+^  p dS 

• S So  f S S 

a2£J>,p§'SpP.b 

S ^ o3  PCQ^  «"<  b 


o tiD 

A§, 

pS 


CPPCfl  Pfl 

(NeO<NiO(N  C^KN  as  5 

■ I I I I II  """*  — , - -- 

< (N  I— t CO  irH  1— ( «K4.4lt4  «!«.—*  «l« 


• • d • d 

dd 

d 

C 

C<||-H 

1 1 

1 1 

1 1 

4^ 

V4 

J [B 

0 

0 0 . d d 

d 0 

4^ 

P -M 

»o 

d 

! tj<‘o'^oocd 

co*0 

kl 

0 

cp  00-j^V^ 

7k. 

4>® 

tH 

TJH 

1 COTt^OOr-HO 

c3  c3  O 

53« 


d ® 
s 

if  if  aooo 

■"(N  5_ 

(Nt-iCO.-(iO 


a a ® 


ifo  '^oo 

^ . <Ni-( 

II 


A 

• • -dd 

; d 

d d 

d 

; d 

d 

d 

d 

d d^  d d 

d d 

'd  S • 

dP  d 

if  if  if  T+(Tj( 

if  00 

00 

CO 

0 

r}< 

CD 

TftTft'^^OOO 

CO  00 

C3  4f  0 

^1-1 

coco 

CO 

CO 

(N 

CO 

WtNOCOi-H 

COtH 

Wd^ 

co(N(M  1 1 

1 1 1 (NOO 

tcl, 

1 1 
TttTjH 

1 c 1 

Tft^OO 

4< 

1 

00 

CO 

1 1 r-t  1 1 
0000  1 tH(N 

1 1 
0(N 

u 

(M  ,-( 1-4  rH  r-( 

CO  T-t 

<N(N 

(N<Nt-4 

(N 

T-l 

T-tr-tO0C^i-f 

ecr-1 

p ? . 

S>a 
oif  c) 

K a^ 


:B  :B 


I I o I o 

C''o  CO  CO  CO  CO 


: d 

d d 

d 

• d 

d 

d 

if  CO 

coco 

0 

•CO 

CO 

CO 

coco 

Tt< 

•CO 

CO 

7 

T 4< 

OC2 

1 if 

o'^o 

1 

<2 

1 

0 

eo<N 

coco 

CO  CO  CO 

CO 

CO 

fl  a^- a 

to  CD CO 


d • 


COCOOCOP  -^J(d  S 

I I I I o 


ro  ^-c)  cu  g 


:£  : 

:l  .-I ; 

(D+J  <D  O.  . 

a to  d®  p 

a +3  MOO43 

O 0*0^  o, 

r-4  CD  rH 


to 

a> 

o 

f§ 

P.O 


O <D 
« O 

d d 
d d 
o o 


Odd  d 

dot)  o 

d d d d 

d d d d 

000  o 


00 

_ d d d d 
d o o o o 
d d d d d 
ddddd 
00000 

rH 


• a-'  : 

• d • . 

’-S 

42  §-0  d 

o z c§ 

0^^0-42 

d'd‘§2d 

d d e3  C3  d 

4j  +3  a o 

J-.  t4  to  to  d 


dS 

o3  d 
d d 

nn 


It.  ci 
0,d 
to  . 

.sS 

s?«« 

S-a 

d-S 


S§ 
I'd  2 

iP  t>  ^ 

o3  o3  o3 


P)  d d 


•"2 

d 


«o  000  o 


• kw  00 ' 

^ •rri 

“S  fe:  d u ® - 

Ilia 2 si  i 

ppi^  00  Ok.  h 

00000  00  O 


160-70  days. 


THE  HOME  VEGETABLE  GARDEN 


189 


a si 
I 15 


a' 

oo 

<N  < 
»HO 

( o 


'O  S'O 

o 

I I 

O i o 


ro  a 
^'T3 

®3  _ 03  _ 
irtOrrtO 

^00  ^»o 

OrHO-t 
00  I a>  I 
I o I o 
OiMO<N 
OtHCD— i 


OQ  . . CQ  . 

>»  . ro  ro  >,m 
o3  S°  ^ 

irt  P*»  c3  irt  o3 

(N  ^OOioO 
rHOO^rHOl 
I I rH 

O I I I O I 
OOOOCOO 
rH  ?D  CO  02  rH  05 


o3  o3  S° 

-O  'O  ^^3 

O-oO 
O CO 

(M  rHOi-l 
.-H  I 00  I 

I »o  1 o 

O (NOO 

05  i-l'Ct<rH 


coo 


O I 
COO 
tHOO 


'O  ^ 02  ® ^ 

^ C3  tH  U(  ^ ^ 03 
0-0  oj  oS'CJ^'O 
"T  o)  <j2  00 

rHO  ^^0>-i0 
I 'ctf  *^00  I CO 


S“S“ 

P 03  c8 
^-0-0 
.§00 
'-'cOt}< 

OrHrH 

00  I I 
I OO 
0(N0 

CO-MtH 


it 

•oS 

00  I 

ciP 

CD. 


•rtS 

• +3 

•CQ  p 

•'-'T3 

: 

• oS-rJ 
bc^  aj 


I §3 

•es 


• •S'd 

:oSS 

a 

-Cx) 


■M  . 

a . 

05  . 
O)  . 


«-^  ! §''*^  05-S'§  05  15^  • 

giggl'd 

■13 "S  Sjo  o o o ^ — '^-o  o’Sd'^ 

i a =*  ■§ o p.  {JD^  ^ p.^  a el 

les^P^PPPeazl^.  bKP^t..o!  3*^ 

<iW<{ 


^=3 

H<J  <tA< 


! ■ ‘ 

• • O • • 

p p 

• • ! 

: :'^S^  : : 

w-d 

© 

^pg^^gp 

©S 

a®  .. 

■ ! M 

.0  . . H 


05  • 

a -a 

. CQ 


§ • >»  : 
^ .-TH  • 

a 


" 2 • > 
5?  3 Cm 


^ 05' 

o3  O a 
“ ap+s  g* 

02 


c3 

.'2Sd  a^o  ® 

bflP'^P  rrt  P 

G ««e3  S3  03G3 

— £>.'3?.  >.2 


i'Pd.a 

.+5..P  c3 

:S|>. 

SS9S.O 


a^-i  rt 


05.0 


:aslo|sS§| 

>,  c3  M>»  2 .p  O >»a*5  fc-  O O f>,’S  e3  a a 
03730e?§!3'Sc3^O<O<fai3§^®^5'25s5s 
iSiH  .2  o<-=.S.S  es  ^02  aas  a5d^  aa 


§ o boo 

G+J 

^ S t;  ^ 

^ a 

c3  02  o3 

2Si2 

■gEaS-3 


■ M . 
. fl  . 


|i| 

<1  ;p> 

o 

■^5  o 

sSs 

Si'S 

.Q 

05  e8  O 

feWO 


U ® so 

o5o^ 

a^  o 

»H  05  fcH 

^CQ«^ 

BBBg 
^>.22 
ac3  a-Q 

05iiH  05  « 
02^02  piH 


•>* 

:<5|  : 

M 05  bOo'^  t>0 

o ® ti  t>.+3  © 

"•^  G ^-1  tj  P.  .P 
rt  G ” =3  © ra  a 

“i'-S’gf'  I 
Isl-gSl  g 

^<!WfE^0W  CD 


Om 

.p  a 
B ” 
© 

a’§ 

© »j 


s; 

11 


a 

P o 

p| 

p a 

-H  © 

p 

<!cq 


* © 
•.Q 

:a 
. © 

. +5 

. a 
. o 

.CQ 

'd 
: p 

.p 


..p 
. © 

! «3 


:«  .bi)bia 

'S 

•p  '^Paa® 
••<  ’CQ  cqcdQ 


ta  be 

P P 

SfE 

Cm 


^p  • * ' ;P 

.-(rj<p  PPP(N 
I I I 


P P P P 


P P 


C0p(M<NrH(N  P fHmP 
I •"  I I I I "*  11"^ 

rH  "I'ir-I  tH  '.M.— I '♦»  HlNfq  -<|« 


: 55S5S2S  5H5 

aa  a ??T' 

HCTTtI  CO  iH  h|«h1«c<|  tH  r-l 


• 1 *••»»»  * 

• ^ 

dd  : -d 

.'  I : I 

^ I I 

£2  : : : : 

. r-(+j  . . . .rn 

rt(05  • 

p*5 

• P P 

pPP 

: : 

_ O H ri  Q <*s 

o . d 

•M4^P 

p'p 

• • • -o 

• 4.9  © . . . .4.9 

O O . «M  o 

— OrlC 

PPP«o 

'2‘0000‘0‘0 

p' 

co^oo 

rj<00 

• 00 -^P  -PPoo 

cot^  . 

■♦3  00 

<N(M 

C<|(N(N 

TO 

“ t,^CO  ^ ^ 

O ..  1. 

(NrH 

S ©c^ 

TO  © • 

TO 

^ • 1 

Op  (50  cod 

o«  o J _L  o o 

CO 

?H  tH 

dr-iOO+^OOrJt  5 

1 (30 

00  .H 

1 rt(00 

00»H  F-t 

1 i 1 ^ 

1 

CO 

»o>o 

lOrHr-l 

^ WoocDcococqt^ 

WWco 

SW 

I 


p p 

:p  p 

PPP  • 

• PP  -PP 

P 

PPP 

rt(0 

•OrJ< 

■^OOOif 

•'^(50  CO  if  (50(50 

00 

rffCOrtl 

<NCO 

OcC(N 

C<|i-(CO'^r-lT-l 

(NCO(M 

1 1 

1 1 1 (50 

fH  1 1 rj(  1 1 

1 

1 1 1 

Wr}( 

(50  ■4(50 

C50rt((N  1 

1 (NTt(  1 (M(N 

(N 

OOOOO 

♦H(N 

tH(N.-( 

.-(.-•fHCD 

(30rHCqcO.-(T-l 

T-ICOrH 

P P 

rtiCO 
CNCO 

00'^ 

.-(<N  CO 


Ub 


8-12  ft.  . 
12-18  In. 
30-36  In . 
3-5  ft.  . . 
18-24  In. 
18-24  In. 
12-18  in. 

3-4  ft.  . . 
7-10  ft.  . 
3-4  ft.. . . 

18-24  In. 
8-12  Jt,  . 

•P  ; -PPP 

• ♦3  : 

p : 

—4  4J 

^CD  Jif  COCOCO 

NCO  W cococo 

4 

co"^ 

C0(N 

^ Pm 

2 ®® 

coco 


P P P P 


•OCD 

PrJ^CO 


<P'P 

COCO  P*^ 
I I ■^00 
OOO  I 
CO  CO  CO  CO 


• p • -pp  p 

^CD  -^fcoco  CO 

cicoP^eoco  CO 
r-t  I I I I 

I OcO  I rH 

OOCOCO'^C<|(M  C<l 


CO +2  CO 

co^co 

iti 


p p 


? 

coco  CO 


i^4<co*?o<i<o  TVi 

00  <N  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  eot^co 


4<  I 

c^oo 


© © 
€5  © 

p p 


®2  ® 
2 o « 

S o s 

P M P 

o-v  O 


© © © © 
© © © © 

§§§§ 

O O o o 


■ © 


© © © ©.w 

© © © © © o 
ppppp  . 
p p p p p-jo 
O O O O O O' 

tH  H-ti— 4 ^ 1-^  tH 


:®g 

© d ® 

©s  © 

§“§ 

©Cjl  o 


! P 

6u^o  . 

1x3 

OS  m 
Hinl©  eo 


©?C©3©©© 

pSpiSppp  PPP 
pSpappp  PPP 

OOO  OOO 


© © 
© © 
p p 
p p 
o o 

HctHw 


I h 

S 0.2 

a 'Da 

S 

!3  5 ba 

C QH 


•2  o 

• S»- 
©Vo 
>•  © . 
S2S 

D O e3 

WWW 


: :p 

. . O 
• •’© 
: :B 

. .M 


X5  * ‘a 

p • © . 

V :2P 


. .p  . 

g : 

s :p  : 

C • SOP 

:^s  . . 

I :|3'22 

^d  P t.  © w 

. (.1  © o >1 

.p*p‘  o 

.2  W3  fe  J®  o O M 

lllill  I 


e§a 

03  © © 

WW04 


TO 

II 

££ 


•D  P 


.0.0 : 


p 

TO  © 

p2 


.gp^sS.o^'S 
o'P22'S»?S  PPP 
ftiP^WWW^S'  Smh 


p © 
p © 

h> 


190 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


' Turnips  are  used  in  pot-boiled  preparations  with 
potatoes,  cabbage,  and  meat,  or  are  boiled  with  pork, 
or  mashed  like  potatoes. 

Turnip-rooted  Chervil  (See  Chervil) 

Vegetable  Marrow 

The  so-called  vegetable  marrows  are  closely  allied 
to  the  pumpkin,  both  as  to  species  and  habit  of  growth, 
the  principal  difference  being  that  the  vegetable  mar- 
rows are  used  while  quite  young  and  tender,  and  may 
be  baked  and  served  very  much  the  same  as  sweet 
potatoes.  The  vegetable  marrows  should  receive 
thorough  cultivation  in  order  that  a tender  product 
may  be  secured,  and  should  be  gathered  while  the 
outside  skin  is  still  so  tender  that  it  may  easily  be  broken 
by  the  finger  nail.  The  flesh  is  either  boiled  and 
mashed  or  baked  in  the  oven  and  served  with  butter 
while  hot. 

Vegetable  Oyster  (See  Salsify) 

Water  Cress  (See  Cress) 

Watermelon  (See  Melon — Watermelon) 

Welsh  Onion  (See  Onion) 

Witloof  (See  Chicory) 


U.  S.  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FARMERS’  BULLETIN  NO.  863 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

AS  TAUGHT  TO  CANNING  CLUB  MEMBERS 
IN  THE  SOUTHERN  STATES 

MARY  E.  CRESWELL  and  OLA  POWELL 

Assistants  in  Home  Demonstration  Work.  OflSce  of  Extension 
Work  in  the  South,  States  Relations  Service 


INTRODUCTION 

Canning  has  become  the  most  widely  used  and 
popular  means  of  preserving  large  quantities  of  fruits 
and  vegetables.  The  original  form,  flavor,  color,  and 
texture  of  fruits  and  succulent  vegetables  are  retained 
to  a greater  degree  by  canning  than  by  any  other 
means.  For  this  reason,  certain  delicately  flavored 
vegetables  are  most  attractive  when  canned.  Another 
advantage  is  that  canned  foods  are  ready  for  almost 
immediate  serving.  It  must  be  remembered  that  other 
means  of  preserving  foods  are  very  desirable,  especially 
during  the  present  season  when  conservation  of  all 
food  products  should  be  practiced.  For  example, 
legumes,  like  lima  beans  and  peas,  and  root  crops, 
like  carrots  and  beets,  while  attractive  when  canned 

191 


192 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


in  a succulent  stage,  are  more  nutritious  and  more 
economically  stored  when  mature.  Summer  cabbage, 
cauliflower,  and  cucumbers  are  better  saved  in  brine 
than  canned.  Other  vegetables  also  can  be  brined. 
Many  vegetables,  such  as  sweet  corn  and  green  string 
beans,  can  be  dried,  and  in  this  stage  furnish  variety 
and  serve  as  a substitute  for  canned  vegetables.  If 
properly  dried  and  stored  these  vegetables  are  at- 
tractive and  wholesome.  A publication  (Farmers’  Bui. 
841)  dealing  with  drying  may  be  obtained  from  the 
United  States  Department  of  Agriculture. 

This  bulletin  will  deal  wholly  with  methods  for  can- 
ning, preserving,  and  jelly  making.  The  directions 
given  are  chiefly  for  those  products  which  seem  most 
worth  preserving  in  these  ways,  and  the  methods  are 
those  which  seem  best  suited  to  the  products. 

Sterilization 
Cause  of  Spoilage 

Foods  decompose  or  spoil  because  they  are  attacked 
by  living  germs,  minute  forms  of  plant  life  of  the  lowest 
order.  Three  types  of  these  tiny  organisms  cause  foods 
to  spoil,  namely,  molds,  yeasts,  and  bacteria.  These 
are  present  constantly  everywhere,  in  air,  water,  and 
soil,  and  on  food.  All  except  molds  are  so  minute  as  to 
be  invisible  without  the  aid  of  a microscope,  and  all 
exist  in  teeming  millions. 

Molds  are  of  first  interest  because  the  housekeeper  is 
familiar  with  their  appearance  in  the  growing  stage  in 
which  they  attack  foods,  and  even  fabrics,  causing 
rapid  destruction.  Molds  thrive  in  dampness  and  dark- 
ness and  prefer  freedom  from  currents  of  air.  They 
require  oxygen,  moisture,  and  warmth,  and  feed  upon 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


193 


sugar  and  starches.  Since  they  can  grow  in  the  pres- 
ence of  acids,  fruit  and  tomatoes  are  readily  attacked 
by  them.  The  fruiting  parts  of  molds  bear  spores 
which  serve  the  same  purpose  as  seeds  of  higher  plants. 
These  invisible  spores  are  produced  in  such  quantities 
as  to  be  present  in  the  air  at  all  times,  ready  to  develop 
upon  any  foods  which  are  exposed.  Molds  are  killed 
easily  by  moist  heat.  The  practice  of  sterilizing  foods 
in  jars  and  sealing  immediately  eliminates  all  trouble 
with  mold. 

Yeasts  also  must  be  controlled  in  canning.  Yeasts 
are  of  many  kinds,  all  one-celled  plants,  which  repro- 
duce by  budding,  that  is,  by  the  growth  of  a bud  on 
the  edge  of  a cell.  This  bud  quickly  becomes  full 
grown  and  breaks  away  from  the  mother  cell.  Some 
yeasts  have  another  means  of  reproduction,  that  is, 
by  the  production  of  spores  within  the  cell. 

The  use  of  yeast  in  bread  making  is  familiar.  When 
supplied  with  food  (in  the  form  of  sugar),  warmth, 
moisture,  and  air,  yeasts  grow,  breaking  up  the  sugar 
and  producing  alcohol  and  a gas  called  carbon  dioxid. 
Bubbles  of  this  gas  are  seen  when  canned  fruits  fer- 
ment. Since  yeasts  are  abundant  in  the  air  and  on  the 
surface  of  fruits  and  vegetables,  it  is  always  necessary 
to  destroy  them  on  food  being  canned,  to  seal  con- 
tainers air-tight,  and  to  prevent  further  entrance 
of  these  organisms  into  the  canned  foods.  Yeasts 
usually  are  killed  by  moist  heat  at  190°  F.  (simmering). 

Bacteria  are  much  more  difficult  to  destroy  than 
molds  and  yeasts  and  are  the  chief  foe  to  combat  in 
all  preserving  of  foods.  They  also  are  one-celled  plants, 
smaller  than  yeasts,  and  usually  reproduce  by  division. 
So  rapid  is  this  reproduction  that  a single  bacterium 
may  produce  millions  more  in  a few  hours.  Bacteria 


194 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


require  for  their  growth  warmth,  moisture,  and  food. 
Certain  species  of  bacteria  thrive  without  air.  Since 
few  bacteria  thrive  in  acids  or  in  the  presence  of  much 
ugar,  their  destruction  is  less  difficult  in  fruits  and 
tomatoes  than  in  such  vegetables  as  corn,  peas,  and 
beans  or  in  meats,  which  are  the  most  difficult  of  all 
foods  to  can  safely. 

Bacteria  in  their  active  growing  state  can  be  killed 
by  subjecting  them  to  moist  heat  at  boiling  tempera- 
ture for  different  lengths  of  time.  Unfortunately  for 
the  canner  many  kinds  of  bacteria  have  the  power 
under  adverse  conditions  of  producing  spores,  which  are 
much  more  resistant  to  heat  than  are  the  growing 
stages.  These  spores  may  be  compared  to  the  seeds 
of  higher  plants  in  their  ability  to  withstand  adverse 
conditions.  It  is  known  that  some  spores  are  able 
to  resist  boiling  temperature  for  hours.  All  bacteria 
in  the  spore  state  can  be  destroyed  by  subjecting 
them  to  a temperature  of  240°  to  250°  F.,  moist  heat. 
This  temperature  can  be  secured  only  with  steam 
under  pressure.  Almost  all  the  bacteria  which  are 
so  resistant  to  heat  when  in  the  spore  state  are  abun- 
dant in  cultivated  soil,  and  therefore  present  upon 
the  pods  and  husks  of  such  vegetables  as  corn,  peas, 
and  beans,  which  contain  the  food  upon  which  the  spore- 
bearing forms  thrive.  The  presence  of  these  bacteria 
upon  the  parts  of  vegetables  to  be  canned,  therefore, 
is  almost  inevitable.  The  difficulty  of  sterilization  is 
increasingly  great  when  such  vegetables  have  been 
bruised  or  allowed  to  stand,  or  have  among  them  de- 
cayed portions. 

Enzyms.  Fruits  and  vegetables,  after  being  gath- 
ered, undergo  natural  changes  which  cause  staleness 
and  injure  the  quality.  These  changes  take  place 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


193 


with  varying  rapidity  in  different  foods  and  are  due 
to  the  action  of  substances  known  as  enzyms,  which 
have  the  power  to  cause  ripening  and  other  changes. 
The  delicate  flavors  of  many  fruits  are  thus  destroyed 
when  they  are  allowed  to  stand  too  long  before  being 
canned. 

Methods  of  Sterilization 

The  term  sterilization,  when  applied  to  canning,  is 
used  to  cover  the  process  of  inclosing  the  food  in  cans 
or  jars  which  afterwards  can  be  sealed  air-tight,  and 
subjecting  it  to  sufficient  heat  to  kill  all  living  organ- 
isms. To  be  effective,  sterilization  must  be  followed 
immediately  by  sealing  the  containers  air-tight  to 
prevent  further  entrance  of  molds,  yeasts,  or  bacteria. 

Formerly  a common  household  practice  in  canning 
(applied  chiefly  to  fruits  and  tomatoes)  consisted  in 
cooking  the  material  to  be  canned  in  an  open  kettle, 
transferring  it,  while  boiling  hot,  to  hot  sterilized 
jars,  and  at  once  sealing  with  a lid  which  also  had  been 
sterilized.  That  this  practice  is  uncertain  is  shown 
by  the  frequency  with  which  a growth  of  mold  appeared 
on  the  fruit  canned  in  this  way,  causing  loss.  This 
method  is  objectionable  not  only  because  it  so  fre- 
quently results  in  insufficient  sterilization,  but  also 
because  it  gives  a product  of  inferior  quality.  Its  use 
is  also  attended  by  discomfort  and  inconvenience  to  the 
housekeeper  who  is  forced  to  do  most  of  the  work 
indoors  over  a hot  stove.  Moreover,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  tomatoes,  vegetables  can  not  be  canned  by  this 
method  with  the  certainty  that  they  will  keep.  For 
these  reasons  sterilization  of  fruits  and  vegetables 
after  being  packed  in  containers  has  largely  superseded 
the  open-kettle  method. 


196 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Since  certain  vegetables  are  frequently  attacked  by 
spore-bearing  bacteria,  a longer  period  of  sterilization 
at  boiling  temperature  is  required  for  them  than  for 
fruits.  Often  they  are  sterilized  by  boiling  3 to  5 hours. 
The  spores  of  some  species  of  bacteria  have  been 
known  to  resist  even  5 hours’  boiling.  Since  this  gives 
a chance  for  failure,  the  laboratory  practice  of  inter- 
mittent or  fractional  sterilization  is  applied  to  house- 
hold canning  when  a hot-water  canner  is  used  for  proc- 
essing certain  vegetables.  Intermittent  sterilization 
consists  of  applying  boiling  temperature  to  vegetables 
already  packed  in  containers  for  a period  on  each  of 
three  successive  days,  sealing  the  jar  immediately  after 
each  boiling  or  “ processing  ” if  the  lid  has  been 
loosened  to  allow  for  the  expansion  caused  by  heat. 
After  each  daily  processing  the  containers  are  kept 
at  ordinary  temperature,  under  which  the  spores  not 
killed  by  boiling  develop  into  bacteria  of  the  easily- 
killed  vegetative  or  growing  state,  which  are  then 
destroyed  by  the  next  period  of  boiling.  Rarely  do 
any  spores  fail  thus  to  develop  and  be  destroyed  by 
the  third  processing.  Processing  for  1 hour  in  a water 
bath  at  boiling  temperature  on  the  first  day,  repeated 
on  the  second  and  third  days,  will  ordinarily  sterilize 
beans,  peas,  and  corn  in  quart  jars,  if  these  vegetables 
are  selected  properly  and  handled  carefully.  The  flavor 
of  vegetables  thus  processed  is  finer  than  when  they 
are  subjected  to  high  temperatures.  This  is  the 
safest  method  to  follow  with  hot-water  canners.  When 
a steam-pressure  outfit  is  used,  a higher  temperature 
can  be  obtained  and  the  period  of  sterilization  short- 
ened, at  the  same  time  eliminating  the  uncertainty 
of  securing  complete  sterilization. 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


197 


Aids  to  Sterilization 

The  first  essential  for  complete  sterilization  with  the 
use  of  either  the  hot-water  canner  or  the  steam-pressure 
outfit  is  absolute  cleanliness  in  surroundings  and  in  all 
utensils  used  in  canning.  Tables  should  be  well  cleaned 
and  may  be  covered  with  white  oilcloth.  Garbage 
cans  must  be  provided  to  hold  peelings  and  other 
refuse.  To  allow  these  to  fall  upon  the  ground  to 
decay  near  the  place  of  canning  will  result  in  produc- 
tion of  spores  which  will  rise  in  dust  and  infect  the  mate- 
rial being  canned. 

Greater  safety  will  follow  if  containers  and  fids  are 
sterilized  by  boiling  for  15  minutes  after  being  washed 
thoroughly.  They  should  then  be  inverted  on  a clean 
surface  until  used.  Cleanse  rubbers  by  dropping  for 
a minute  into  a boiling  solution  of  soda  and  water 
(1  quart  of  water  to  1 teaspoonful  soda),  removing  from 
fire  at  once  to  prevent  injury  to  them. 

Testing  the  Seal 

After  fruits  and  vegetables  are  canned  and  set  aside 
for  24  hours,  lightning  seal  or  hermetic  jars  may  be 
tested  by  raising  the  clamp  and  attempting  to  lift 
the  jar  by  the  lid.  If  the  lid  comes  off,  the  jar  is  either 
not  sealed  or  the  food  is  fermenting.  If  the  lid  remains 
tight,  the  chances  are  that  its  contents  are  keeping. 
Screw-top  jars  may  be  tested  by  simply  inverting  to 
see  if  there  is  any  leak.  Test  all  jars,  so  that  when 
faulty  sealing  alone  exists,  jars  may  be  reprocessed  and 
contents  saved.  If  the  food  is  fermenting  it  should 
be  discarded.  However,  the  tight  seal  is  not  always 
an  indication  that  the  food  is  keeping.  Some  foods  are 
often  attacked  by  bacteria,  which  thrive  without 


198 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


the  presence  of  air,  and  which  decompose  canned  foods 
without  producing  any  gas.  When  these  have  not 
been  killed  by  processing,  the  food  may  appear  good 
and  the  jar  remain  sealed  yet  the  contents  be  unfit 
for  use.  In  tin  these  spoils  are  known  as  “ flat  sours  ” 
because  the  can  is  not  bulged  and  shows  no  indication 
of  spoiling.  This  kind  of  failure  is  more  often  due  to 
canning  stale  vegetables.  Fibers  of  stale  vegetables 
become  tough  and  heat  will  not  penetrate  them  so 
easily.  Therefore  the  period  for  sterilization  should 
be  lengthened. 

Very  often  plants  absorb  from  the  soil  or  from  fer- 
tilizers certain  minerals  that  have  a tendency  to  make 
the  fibers  of  the  plant  more  resistant  to  heat,  thereby 
necessitating  a longer  period  of  sterilization  in  order 
to  destroy  all  spores  present. 

Equipment  for  Canning  in  the  Home 

When  canning  in  small  quantities,  it  is  not  necessary 
to  purchase  special  equipment,  although  inexpensive 
portable  equipment  for  use  in  or  out  of  doors  may  be 
purchased.  If  considerable  canning  is  done,  such 
outfits  will  prove  convenient  and  save  labor.  Espe- 
cially is  this  true  when  a comfortable  out-of-door 
place  can  be  selected  for  the  work. 

The  method  of  packing  fruits  and  vegetables  into 
containers  and  sterilizing  the  product  after  it  is  packed 
has  superseded  to  a very  large  extent  the  old  plan  of 
cooking  the  food  in  an  open  kettle,  transferring  it 
hot  to  the  jar,  and  sealing  without  any  further  steriliza- 
tion. Since  this  is  true,  the  first  consideration  is  a 
sterilizing  vessel.  This  is  sometimes  called  a processor. 
Cooking  the  food  in  the  jar  to  sterilize  it  is  known  as 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


199 


processing.  This  cooker  must  be  large  enough  to 
hold  a convenient  number  of  packed  jars  and  must 
be  fitted  with  a false  bottom  and  a tight  cover.  A 
wash  boiler,  bucket,  or  galvanized  tub  can  be  used  for  a 
processor.  It  may  be  used  on  the  kitchen  stove  or 
placed  on  a furnace  built  out  of  doors.  One  important 
factor  is  to  be  able  to  bring  the  water  in  this  cooker 
quickly  to  the  boiling  point  and  maintain  this  tem- 
perature steadily.  The  false  bottom  is  a rack  which 
keeps  the  jars  from  coming  in  contact  with  the  metal 
which  is  next  to  the  frame.  This  prevents  breakage. 
Racks  made  of  strips  of  wood  are  probably  the  best. 
Sometimes  wire  netting,  or  perforated  galvanized 
trays,  are  used.  If  the  latter  material  is  used,  it 
should  be  raised  about  1 inch  or  2 inches  above  the 
bottom  of  the  vessel. 

Types  of  Canners 

Hot-water  Canner.  Several  convenient  types  of 
portable  canners  are  on  the  market.  The  simplest 
hot-water  outfit  is  one  to  be  placed  on  the  kitchen 
stove.  Another,  more  complete,  has  a fire  box 
attached  and  is  used  out  of  doors.  These  outfits 
also  include  blanching  trays,  tongs  for  handling  hot 
jars,  a false  bottom,  and  tools  necessary  for  sealing 
tin  cans.  The  canner  which  has  been  described  is 
commonly  known  as  a water-bath  canner. 

The  type  of  canner  should  be  chosen  with  reference 
to  the  kind  and  amount  of  canning  to  be  done.  The 
small  hot-water  canner  is  the  least  expensive  of  the 
commercial  outfits  for  home  canning.  For  inexperi- 
enced people  it  is  also  more  easily  handled.  This 
type  of  canner  is  preferable  for  processing  fruits  and 
tomatoes.  They  are  sterilized  easily  at  boiling  tern- 


200 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


perature  and  the  texture,  flavor,  and  color  of  the 
finished  products,  processed  at  this  temperature,  are 
superior  to  those  which  have  been  subjected  to  the 
higher  temperatures. 

Water-seal  Canner.  Another  type  of  canner  is 
known  as  the  water  seal.  The  advantages  of  this  type 
of  canner  are  that  only  a small  quantity  of  water  is 
needed  and  it  can  be  raised  quickly  to  the  boiling 
point  with  the  use  of  very  little  fuel.  A steady  tem- 
perature also  can  be  maintained  easily.  When  the 
lid  is  in  place  a slight  pressure  is  secured  and  this  makes 
it  possible  to  maintain  a temperature  2°  or  3°  higher 
than  the  boiling  point. 

In  this  bulletin  no  separate  time-table  for  processing 
in  the  water-seal  canner  is  given,  because  the  differ- 
ence in  temperature  obtained  in  the  two  types  of  canner 
is  not  sufficient  to  warrant  a close  distinction  in  length 
of  processing  periods. 

Steam-pressure  Canner.  The  steam  canner  is  con- 
structed out  of  strong  material  and  provided  with  a 
tightly  fitting  lid,  which  when  clamped  in  place  makes 
it  possible  to  hold  steam  under  pressure  and  obtain 
a correspondingly  high  temperature.  It  has  a steam 
gauge  and  thermometer  attached  to  the  lid.  These 
attachments  register  the  temperature  and  the  corre- 
sponding number  of  pounds  pressure.  Since  the  stean. 
canner  is  made  of  very  heavy  material,  a grec.ter 
degree  of  heat  is  required  to  bring  up  the  temperature 
quickly. 

When  large  quantities  of  vegetables  such  as  beans, 
peas,  corn,  etc.,  are  to  be  canned,  much  time,  labor, 
and  fuel  can  be  saved  if  the  steam-pressure  outfit  is 
used.  These  vegetables,  if  processed  in  a water  bath, 
need  to  be  cooked  either  continuously  for  a long  period 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


201 


or  intermittently.  When  a higher  temperature  is 
retained  during  the  processing,  the  length  of  time  may 
be  considerably  shortened. 

Convenient  Utensils 

Whether  a homemade  or  commercial  canner  is 
used  it  is  necessary  to  assemble  certain  utensils  which 
are  found  ordinarily  in  every  home.  For  grading, 
sorting,  and  washing,  shallow  trays,  pans,  or  bowls, 
and  vegetable  brushes  are  needed.  In  washing  berries 
a colander  or  sieve  should  be  used.  For  blanching, 
squares  of  cheese-cloth  or  a wire  basket,  together  with 
a large  vessel  for  holding  the  boiling  water,  should  be 
provided.  This  vessel  should  be  deep  enough  to 
submerge  a convenient  quantity  of  the  products  to  be 
blanched.  Slender-pointed  knives  are  convenient  for 
peeling,  paring,  and  cutting.  It  is  much  better  to  use 
a silver  knife  for  peeling  fruits,  as  the  fruit  some- 
times is  discolored  by  steel.  When  canning  in  large 
quantities,  slicers,  corers,  pitters,  and  food  choppers 
wiU  make  it  possible  for  one  to  work  more  rapidly. 
A half-pint  measuring  cup,  teaspoon,  tablespoon, 
spatula,  scales,  salt  per  cent  scale,  and  saccharometer 
will  aid  in  securing  accurate  results.  If  the  product 
to  be  packed  is  to  be  cooked,  wooden  spoons,  sieves, 
and  saucepans  are  necessary.  Packing  paddles  and 
sirup  paddles  will  aid  in  filling  the  jars.  If  the  can- 
ning is  to  be  done  out  of  doors,  tables  of  convenient 
height,  a covered  garbage  pail,  and  a flytrap  are  needed. 
The  most  convenient  portable  canners  contain  both 
processing  and  blanching  compartments.  A kerosene 
stove  which  burns  a gas  flame  gives  intense  heat  and 
is  convenient  for  use  in  jelly  making,  preserving,  and 
concentrating  ketchups  and  sauces. 


202 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


i 

I 

Containers 

For  home  use,  glass  jars  are  more  economical  than 
tin,  because  they  can  be  used  many  times  and  with 
care  will  last  for  years.  New  rubbers  must  be  used 
each  year,  and  it  pays  to  get  the  best  quality  of  red 
rubbers. 

The  best  type  of  jar  for  home  use  is  one  with  the  so- 
called  lightning  seal,  having  a glass  lid  held  in  place 
by  a wire  clamp.  This  lid  is  not  only  more  sanitary, 
but  with  care  can  be  used  as  long  as  the  jar  lasts.  For 
intermittent  processing  the  lightning-seal  jars  are 
suitable,  because  the  lifting  of  the  wire  clamp  each  day 
during  processing  insures  that  the  jar  will  not  be  broken 
by  expansion  and  the  rubber  not  worn  by  the  unscrew- 
ing of  the  cap. 

Another  type  is  the  hermetic  seal,  with  a lacquered 
metal  top.  The  top  has  around  the  inner  edge  a 
narrow  gasket  of  composition  which,  when  heated, 
softens  and  adheres  to  the  glass.  The  top  is  held  in 
place  during  the  processing  by  a wire  clamp.  It  is 
self-sealing  as  it  cools  and  is  not  suitable  for  intermit- 
tent processing. 

If  the  old-fashioned  screw-top  jar  is  used  good  caps 
are  essential  for  safety.  After  having  been  used  the 
edge  of  this  cap  becomes  flared  and  the  porcelain 
lining  frequently  is  loosened  from  the  top.  This  lid 
then  not  only  is  difficult  to  sterilize  but  may  fail  to 
give  an  air-tight  seal.  If  such  jars  are  on  hand  and 
must  be  used  it  will  be  better  to  use  them  for  the 
canning  of  fruits,  preserves,  and  other  products  easily 
sterilized  and  to  secure  jars  of  the  lightning-seal  type 
for  vegetables  which  are  more  difficult  to  sterilize. 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC.  203 


Arrangement  of  Equipment 

Discomfort  and  fatigue  can  be  lessened  greatly  by 
careful  planning  of  the  arrangement  of  equipment  used 
in  canning.  When  working  indoors  it  is  often  possible 
to  carry  on  much  of  the  preparation  of  fruits  and 
vegetables  on  the  porch,  thus  minimizing  the  work  of 
clearing  away  refuse  afterward.  Canning  is  a much 
more  attractive  work  when  it  is  done  in  a cool,  shady, 
outdoor  place  free  from  dust.  This  is  especially  true 
when  several  members  of  the  family  or  a group  of  club 
members  are  working  together.  It  is  well  to  have  two 
tables  so  the  different  stages  of  the  work  may  be  kept 
distinct.  On  the  first  table,  for  instance,  may  be 
placed  vessels  for  sorting  and  grading,  a supply  of 
fresh  cold  water  for  washing  the  fruit,  and  a blanching 
basket  or  squares  of  cheese-cloth.  On  the  second 
table  place  paring  knives,  spoons,  measuring  cups, 
scales,  wooden  paddles,  sirup,  brine,  or  seasoning, 
fresh  clean  cloths,  and  bowls  or  pans.  Use  this  table 
for  peeling  and  packing  and  place  the  garbage  can 
near  it.  When  jars  have  been  sterilized  they  may  be 
brought  in  trays  to  this  table,  inverted  on  a clean 
surface,  and  covered  until  needed.  The  canner  should 
be  placed  so  as  to  be  convenient  to  both  tables  and 
should  be  provided  with  stovepipe  high  enough  to 
convey  the  smoke  above  the  heads  of  the  workers. 

Management  of  Steam-pressure  Canner.  In  the  bot- 
tom of  the  steam-pressure  canner  (retort)  pour  boiling 
water  to  a depth  of  from  1 to  1|  inches.  Place  canner 
over  the  fire  so  that  the  water  can  boil  vigorously. 
Put  cans  in  the  crate,  and  lower  this  into  retort.  Put 
on  the  cover  and  screw  down  clamps  so  cover  is  on 
steam  tight.  Turn  pet  cock  so  steam  can  not  escape 


204 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


and  adjust  safety  valve  to  the  number  of  pounds  steam 
pressure  desired.  Raise  temperature  by  quick  fire 
until  the  gauge  on  cover  of  retort  shows  the  desired 
steam  pressure.  Then  open  safety  valve  or  pet  cock 
a little  in  order  to  let  dead  steam  escape.  Partly  close 
again  so  only  a very  small  amount  of  steam  can  escape, 
but  do  not  close  entirely.  Count  time  from  the 
moment  steam  pressure  in  canner  reaches  the  pres- 
sure desired.  Keep  a steady  fire  going  in  order  to 
maintain  a uniform  temperature  until  time  is  up. 
Then  open  pet  cock  or  safety  valve  to  let  all  steam 
escape  before  unfastening  the  clamps  or  screws  holding 
lid  down.  When  the  gauge  shows  that  all  steam  has 
escaped,  unfasten  the  clamps,  take  off  the  cover,  and 
hft  the  crate  out.  When  processing  in  glass  it  is  im- 
portant to  cool  the  retort  somewhat  before  removing 
the  containers  in  order  to  prevent  loss  of  liquid  from 
them.  As  soon  as  the  jars  are  taken  from  the  canner 
the  lids  should  be  tightened  and  a cloth  spread  over  the 
jars,  to  protect  from  drafts  of  air,  until  cold.  If  cans 
are  used,  test  for  leaks  by  immersing  in  cold  water.  If 
any  are  found,  cans  must  be  resoldered  and  again  proc- 
essed in  canner. 

Canning  in  Glass 

Select  jars  which  are  appropriate  for  the  fruit  or 
vegetable  to  be  packed,  considering  the  size  of  the  con- 
tainer from  the  standpoint  of  the  quantity  desired  when 
opened,  the  size  of  the  fruit  or  pieces  of  fruit  to  be 
packed,  and  the  ease  of  sterilization. 

Sterilizing  Jars.  Wash  these  jars  and  place  them, 
side  down,  in  a vessel  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Bring 
this  water  slowly  to  the  boiling  point  and  allow  to 
boil  for  15  minutes  to  sterilize  the  jars. 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


205 


Sorting  and  Grading.  While  the  jars  are  being 
sterilized,  sort  and  grade  the  fruit  or  vegetables  accord- 
ing to  size  and  degree  of  maturity.  Discard  all  fruit 
that  is  overripe,  underripe,  or  unsound.  Vegetables 
which  are  in  choice  condition  for  the  table — that  is, 
young,  tender,  and  fresh — are  suitable  also  for  canning. 
Those  which  have  become  stale  are  more  difficult  to 
sterilize  and  the  loss  of  flavor  and  deterioration  in 
texture  resulting  from  staleness  make  them  unsuitable 
for  canning. 

Following  the  sorting  and  grading,  thorough  wash- 
ing is  necessary  before  proceeding  to  paring,  coring, 
or  slicing.  Some  fruits  and  vegetables  require  scald- 
ing in  order  to  remove  peeling. 

Blanching.  Blanching  consists  of  plunging  the  vege- 
table or  fruit  into  boiling  water  for  a short  time. 
Use  a wire  basket  or  cheese-cloth  square  for  this. 
The  blanch  gives  a more  thorough  cleansing,  improves 
the  texture,  and  insures  a clearer  liquor.  It  also 
shrinks  the  fruit  or  vegetable  and  makes  it  more 
flexible.  A full  pack  is  then  made  more  easily.  The 
time  required  for  blanching  varies  with  the  state  of 
maturity.  (See  time-table,  pp.  225,  226.)  After  blanch- 
ing the  fruit  or  vetegable  is  placed  for  an  instant  into 
cold  water  to  make  more  crisp  and  to  aid  further  in 
shrinking. 

Packing.  After  selecting  fruit  or  vegetable  for 
uniformity  in  size  and  quality  it  should  be  arranged 
with  reference  to  symmetry  and  the  best  use  of  the 
space  within  the  jar.  In  placing  the  fruit  or  vege- 
table in  a jar  a thin,  slender,  flexible  paddle,  made  out 
of  cane  or  other  suitable  wood,  is  useful. 

When  the  jar  has  been  packed  as  full  as  possible 
without  crushing  the  pieces  the  sirup,  brine,  or  season- 


206  r ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 

ing  is  added.  The  paddle  is  also  used  to  take  out 
bubbles  of  air  after  the  liquor  has  been  added  to  the 
pack. 

Adjusting  the  Rubber  and  Cap.  Immediately  before 
using,  cleanse  the  rubber  by  dropping,  for  a minute, 
into  a soda  bath  (1  tsp.  soda  to  1 qt.  boiling  water). 
Flatten  the  rubber  in  its  groove,  without  the  presence  of 
any  seed  or  particle  of  the  fruit,  before  placing  the  cap. 
When  a screw-top  jar  is  used,  screw  the  cap  evenly 
about  halfway.  When  a glass-top  jar  with  wire  clamp 
is  used,  place  the  lid  on  evenly  and  raise  both  clamps 
up,  the  upper  one  fastened  to  hold  the  lid  in  place. 
With  a hermetic  jar,  fasten  the  cap  on  the  jar  evenly 
with  the  clamp.  This  type  of  jar  is  self-sealing  as  it 
cools. 

Processing.  Place  the  jars  in  a water  bath  on  a 
rack  (a  wooden  rack  is  good)  to  avoid  breaking.  Have 
the  water  the  same  temperature  as  the  contents,  let- 
ting it  come  to  within  2 inches  of  the  tops  of  the  jars. 
Have  a tight  cover  for  the  vessel  to  keep  the  steam 
around  the  tops  of  the  jars  which  are  above  water. 
Do  not  count  time  until  the  water  begins  to  boil;  keep 
it  boiling  steadily  for  the  time  required.  Seal  the 
jars  air-tight  promptly  at  end  of  processing  and  remove 
them  from  the  bath,  being  careful  not  to  allow  a cold 
draft  to  strike  them.  In  intermittent  processing,  raise 
the  clamps  of  the  jars  at  the  beginning  of  each  process- 
ing to  allow  for  expansion.  Seal  at  close  of  each  pro- 
cessing. The  hermetic  jar  can  not  be  used  for  intermit- 
tent processing. 

Storing.  Before  storing  allow  jars  to  stand  for  12 
hours  or  more.  Then  examine  the  seal.  With  a light- 
ning seal  or  hermetic  closure,  take  off  the  clamp  and 
test  the  lid  to  see  if  it  is  tight.  With  a screw-top 


HOME  CANNING  OB  FRUITS,  ETC. 


207 


jar,  simply  invert  the  jar  to  see  if  there  is  any  leak. 
Store  all  products  in  a cool,  dry,  dark  place. 

Sirups.  In  canning  fruits  the  use  of  the  sirups  indi- 
cated in  the  table  will  give  excellent  results.  These 
sirups  have  been  selected  with  reference  to  securing 
good  color,  texture,  and  flavor  in  the  flnished  product. 
For  instance,  sour  fruits,  such  as  cherries  and  plums, 
require  a heavier  sirup  than  sweet  cherries,  peaches,  or 
berries.  These  sirups  range  in  density  from  10°  to 
50°  as  measured  by  a Balling  saccharometer.  The 
table  is  prepared  to  enable  one  to  secure  uniform  results 
without  the  use  of  a saccharometer.  No.  1 sirup  is 
of  10°  density.  No.  2 of  20°  density,  and  so  on. 

To  make  these  sirups  boil  sugar  and  water  together 
in  the  proportion  given  below  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Strain  all  impurities  out  of  the  sirup  before  using: 

Sirup  No.  1,  use  14  ounces  sugar  to  1 gallon  water. 

Sirup  No.  2,  use  1 pound  14  ounces  sugar  to  1 gallon  water. 

Sirup  No.  3,  use  3 pounds  9 ounces  sugar  to  1 gallon  water. 

Sirup  No.  4,  use  5 pounds  8 ounces  sugar  to  1 gallon  water. 

Sirup  No.  5,  use  6 pounds  13  ounces  sugar  to  1 gallon  water. 

Measurements.  If  no  scales  are  available,  the 
amounts  of  sugar  may  be  approximated  by  measur- 
ing, using  1 pint  for  each  pound  and  16  tablespoons 
to  the  half  pint.  For  the  recipes  given  in  this  bulletin 
all  measurements  are  level  and  the  standard  measur- 
ing cup  holding  | pint  is  used.  Abbreviations  used 
are  c.,  cup;  tbsp.,  tablespoon;  tsp.,  teaspoon;  oz,, 
ounce;  and  lb.,  pound. 


Fruits 

The  temperature  obtained  in  a hot-water  bath  can- 
ner  is  the  best  to  use  in  canning  fruits.  The  time  for 


208 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


processing,  given  in  each  recipe  which  follows,  is 
intended  for  this  water-bath  outfit  with  temperature 
at  boiling,  and  should  not  be  counted  until  boiling 
begins. 

Ap'ples.  Apples  shrink  more  in  canning  than  most 
fruits  and  for  this  reason  should  be  blanched  for  1 
minute.  Plunge  them  into  a cold  bath,  then  pack. 
Cover  with  No.  1 sirup,  and  process  quart  jars  12 
minutes. 

This  method  of  canning  apples  is  not  economical 
because  the  apple  is  juicy  and  needs  no  water  added. 
A better  method  perhaps  is  to  make  a sauce  out  of  the 
apples.  This  may  be  done  by  steaming  them  until 
tender  and  passing  them  through  a sieve.  Allow  1 c. 
sugar  to  each  gallon  of  pulp.  Reheat  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved,  pack  hot  in  sterilized  jars,  and  process  quart 
jars  12  minutes. 

Berries.  For  dewberries,  blackberries,  loganberries, 
huckleberries,  raspberries,  and  currants  practically 
the  same  methods  of  canning  may  be  used.  The 
condition  of  the  fruit  will  have  much  to  do  with  the 
quality  of  the  product.  Berries  should  be  gathered 
in  shallow  trays  or  baskets  and  not  in  deep  vessels 
which  allow  them  to  be  bruised  and  crushed.  They 
should  be  uniformly  ripe,  sound,  and  as  large  as 
possible. 

The  flavor  of  canned  berries  will  be  finer  if  sugar  is 
used  in  canning.  It  is  best  to  make  this  into  a sirup. 
The  use  of  berry  juice  instead  of  water  in  this  sirup 
will  give  a richer  color  and  flavor.  For  fine  berries, 
use  a No.  3 sirup,  substituting  berry  juice  for  water. 

After  the  berries  have  been  sorted  carefully  and 
washed  lightly  by  placing  in  a colander  and  pouring 
water  over  them,  instead  of  immersing  them  in  water. 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


209 


pack  as  closely  as  possible  without  crushing.  This 
can  be  done  better  by  putting  a few  berries  into  the 
jar,  pressing  them  gently  into  place,  and  proceeding 
layer  by  layer,  than  by  nearly  filling  the  jar  loosely  and 
then  trying  to  press  them  down. 

Fill  jars  full  of  fruit  and  cover  with  sirup.  Process 
pints  10  minutes  and  quarts  12  minutes. 

Cherries,  When  canned  whole,  cherries  should  be 
blanched  for  15  seconds  to  prevent  splitting.  For 
sour  cherries  use  No.  4 sirup;  and  for  sweet  ones  No.  3. 
Process  quarts  25  minutes. 

Figs.  Figs  for  canning  should  be  sound  and  firm. 
Sprinkle  1 c.  of  soda  over  6 quarts  of  figs  and  add 
1 gallon  of  boiling  water.  Allow  the  figs  to  stand  in  the 
soda  bath  for  5 minutes.  Drain  and  rinse  thoroughly. 
Bring  2 quarts  of  the  No.  3 sirup  to  boiling  and  add  the 
well-drained  figs.  Allow  the  fruit  to  boil  in  this  sirup 
for  1 hour.  Place  the  fruit  carefully  in  the  jars  and 
then  fill  to  overflowing  with  the  sirup.  Process  quart 
jars  for  30  minutes. 

Gooseberries.  Since  green  gooseberries  contain  suf- 
ficient acid  to  preserve  them  without  sterilizing,  they 
may  be  packed,  like  rhubarb,  in  cold  water  or  as  a 
sauce. 

Make  the  sauce  by  cooking  together  the  sugar  and 
fruit  in  the  proportion  of  | c.  of  sugar  for  each  quart 
of  gooseberry  pulp.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
pack  the  sauce  hot  and  process  for  10  minutes.  Ripe 
gooseberries  are  packed  in  a No.  3 sirup  and  processed 
as  other  berries. 

Guava.  Only  firm,  sound  guavas  should  be  used  for 
canning.  Pare  the  fruit,  cut  into  halves,  and  remove 
the  seeds.  Float  the  halves  in  boiling  v/ater  for  20 
seconds.  Drain  and  pack  carefully  as  for  peaches. 


210 


^'ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Fill  the  jars  to  overflowing  with  No.  4 sirup  and  process 
quarts  for  25  minutes. 

Peaches.  Before  preparing  fruit  make  sirup  No.  3 
or  4 (see  sirup  table),  allowing  about  1 c.  of  water  for 
each  quart  jar.  Put  in  one  cracked  peach  pit  for  every 
quart  of  sirup.  Boil  for  5 minutes  and  strain. 

Sort  the  fruit,  using  firm,  sound,  uniform  peaches  for 
canning  and  putting  aside  the  soft  broken  ones  for 
jam.  Peeling  may  be  done  by  immersing  in  boihng 
water  about  1 minute  or  until  skins  slip  easily.  Re- 
move, plunge  for  a minute  into  cold  water,  and  slip  off 
the  skins.  Cut  into  halves  and  pack  at  once,  placing 
the  halves  in  overlapping  layers,  the  concave  surface 
of  each  half  being  downward  and  the  blossom  end 
facing  the  glass.  Fill  each  jar  with  sirup  and  paddle 
carefully  to  remove  air  bubbles.  Process  quarts  20 
minutes  and  half  gallons  35  minutes. 

Firm,  perfect  peaches  may  be  floated  in  boiling  water 
for  about  20  seconds  after  being  peeled.  They  are 
then  cut  in  halves,  seeds  removed,  and  packed  as 
indicated  above.  By  floating  the  peaches  in  this 
manner,  they  are  made  more  flexible  and  pack  to  better 
advantage;  they  also  become  mellow,  absorb  more 
sirup,  and  are  finer  in  flavor. 

Pears.  Select  ripe  pears  which  are  not  too  soft. 
Peel,  blanch  by  lowering  for  15  seconds  in  boiling  water, 
put  in  cold  bath,  drain,  and  pack  rapidly  This  blanch 
will  make  the  hard  varieties  of  pears  pack  better  and 
give  them  a more  transparent  appearance.  When 
packed  whole,  leave  stems  on  and  place  each  layer 
stems  up,  letting  the  second  row  fill  the  spaces  between 
the  two  stems,  and  repeat. 

When  the  jars  have  been  packed  with  fruit,  fill 
with  No.  3 sirup  and  process  quarts  for  25  minutes. 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


211 


Plums.  Select  sound,  uniform  fruit.  Prick  with 
needle  to  prevent  bursting.  Pack  as  firmly  into  the 
jars  as  possible  without  crushing  and  fill  with  a No.  4 
sirup.  Process  quarts  for  15  minutes. 

Rhubarb.  Because  of  its  extreme  acidity,  rhubarb 
can  be  canned  safely  without  processing.  Select  young, 
tender  rhubarb  and  cut  either  into  2-inch  pieces  or 
into  lengths  to  fit  the  jar  when  placed  vertically.  Pack 
in  sterilized  jars  in  vertical  rows.  Cover  with  fresh 
cold  water  and  allow  jars  to  stand  10  minutes.  Drain 
off  the  water  and  again  fill  to  overflowing  with  fresh 
cold  water.  Use  sterilized  rubber,  cap  and  seal  at 
once.  In  the  far  South  rhubarb  should  be  processed 
in  a hot-water  bath,  pints  10  minutes,  quarts  20  min- 
utes, at  boiling. 

Since  rhubarb  contains  much  water,  a better  and 
more  economical  product  could  be  secured  by  canning 
rhubarb  sauce.  Cut  the  rhubarb  into  1-inch  lengths 
and  steam  until  tender.  For  each  quart  of  sauce 
add  I c.  of  sugar.  Pack  hot  in  sterilized  jars  and  proc- 
ess quarts  for  10  minutes. 

Fruit  Juices.  The  juices  of  such  fruits  as  grapes, 
currants,  blackberries,  strawberries,  raspberries,  elder- 
berries, and  cherries  make  a delicious  and  wholesome 
drink,  and  should  be  much  more  widely  used  in  the 
home.  The  flavor  of  these  juices  is  finer  when  they  are 
sterilized  below  the  boiling  point.  Select  sound  ripe 
fruit,  crush,  and  heat  slowly  to  about  180°  F.,  simmer- 
ing point.  Strain  through  double  thickness  of  cheese 
cloth,  and  if  juices  free  from  sediment  are  wanted, 
let  stand  in  a cool  place  for  a few  hours.  Then  pour 
off  carefully  to  free  from  the  dregs,  which  will  remain 
in  bottom  of  vessel.  The  addition  of  sugar  will  make 
flavor  finer.  It  may  be  used  in  any  desired  proportion. 


212 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


a fair  allowance  being  1 c.  of  sugar  to  1 gallon  of  juice. 
It  is  more  economical  to  sweeten  some  fruit  juice  with 
the  natural  sirup  obtained  from  the  same  fruit — for 
example,  apple  and  grape.  Pour  the  juice  into  steril- 
ized bottles,  put  sterilized  stoppers  in  lightly,  set 
bottles  on  rack  in  water  bath,  and  process  at  simmer- 
ing point  for  30  minutes.  Remove  from  water  bath, 
put  stoppers  in  tightly,  and  when  cool  dip  top  of  bottle 
into  melted  paraffin  or  sealing  wax.  A good  wax 
may  be  made  by  melting  together  equal  parts  of 
rosin  and  beeswax. 

These  homemade  fruit  juices  will  be  excellent  for  use 
in  gelatin  desserts,  puddings,  sauces,  ice  cream,  sher- 
bet, etc.  They  can  be  bottled  without  any  sugar 
and  later  made  into  jelly.  This  method  for  grape 
jelly  insures  the  getting  rid  of  crystals,  which  are 
objectionable  in  jelly.  - 


Vegetables 

Either  the  water  bath  or  the  steam-pressure  canner 
may  be  used  in  processing  vegetables.  For  certain 
vegetables  that  are  difficult  to  sterilize,  there  is  an 
advantage  in  the  saving  of  time,  labor,  and  fuel  by 
the  use  of  a steam-pressure  canner.  The  temperatures 
in  the  following  recipes  are  given  in  Fahrenheit  read- 
ings, because  this  thermometer  ordinarily  is  furnished 
with  steam-pressure  outfits.  The  time  given  for 
processing  under  steam  is  for  one  continuous  period. 
In  canning  vegetables  that  have  become  somewhat 
stale,  the  period  of  processing  should  be  lengthened. 
(See  time-table.) 

Brining  and  Seasoning.  Brine  or  water  is  added, 
immediately  after  packing,  to  such  vegetables  as  need 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


213 


to  be  surrounded  by  liquid  either  for  proper  prepara- 
tion or  for  sterilization.  No  more  liquid  is  allowed 
than  is  actually  necessary  to  cover  the  contents  after 
as  full  a pack  as  possible  is  made.  For  seasoning 
tomatoes,  peas,  lima  beans,  and  corn,  a mixture  of 
sugar  and  salt  is  added.  This  seasoning  improves 
the  flavor  of  these  vegetables  greatly.  Mix  the  sugar 
and  salt  in  the  proportion  of  one-third  salt  and  two- 
thirds  sugar.  Add  the  seasoning  at  the  rate  of  1 level 
tsp.  for  each  pint  of  vegetables.  Brine  for  beans, 
okra,  etc.,  should  contain  2|  oz.  salt  to  1 gallon  of 
water.  For  asparagus  a heavier  brine  is  needed. 

Asparagus,  It  is  of  the  greatest  importance  that 
asparagus  for  canning  be  fresh  and  tender.  Select 
tips  of  uniform  size  and  maturity  and  wash  them. 
Cut  in  right  length  for  cans,  scrape  off  tough  outer 
skin,  and  tie  in  bundles.  Blanch  by  immersing  the 
lower  ends  part  way  in  boiling  water  for  2 minutes. 
Then  immerse  the  entire  tips  for  1 to  2 minutes  longer. 
Plunge  into  cold  water,  then  pack  neatly,  tips  up. 
Fill  jars  with  brine  (4i  oz.  salt  to  1 gallon  water) 
and  process  pints  in  a hot-water  bath  1 hour  on  each 
of  three  successive  days  or  in  a steam-pressure  canner 
30  minutes  under  10  lbs.  steam,  at  a temperature  of 
240°  F.  In  the  far  South  it  may  be  necessary  to  raise 
the  temperature  to  250°  F.  for  the  same  period. 

String  Beans.  The  Refugee  is  a good  variety  for 
canning.  The  beans  should  be  tender  and  fresh. 
When  the  beans  within  the  pod  have  grown  to  any  size, 
canning  is  more  difficult  and  the  product  of  poorer 
quality  from  a commercial  standpoint.  For  canning, 
only  well-sorted,  small,  tender  beans  should  be  used. 
String  the  beans  and  cut  them  into  2-inch  lengths; 
cutting  diagonally  or  on  the  bias  gives  a pretty 


214 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


product.  In  glass  they  may  be  canned  whole,  packed 
log-cabin  fashion  in  square  jars.  Blanch  3 to  8 
minutes  or  until  the  pod  wall  bend  without  breaking, 
and  plunge  into  cold  water  for  an  instant.  Drain 
well,  pack  quickly,  and  cover  with  brine.  When  the 
beans  are  young  and  tender,  process  quarts  2 hours 
continuously  at  boiling  temperature,  or,  if  more  mature 
beans  are  packed,  process  intermittently,  or  45  minutes 
under  10  lbs.  steam,  at  a temperature  of  240°  F. 

Lima  beans  are  treated  as  string  beans,  except  that 
sugar  and  salt  seasoning  are  added  instead  of  brine. 
This  seasoning  is  added  when  the  jar  is  half  packed 
with  beans.  When  the  jar  is  filled  with  beans,  cover 
them  with  clear  water,  paddle  to  remove  air  bubbles, 
and  process  as  for  peas. 

Baby  Beets.  The  best  variety  of  beet  for  canning 
is  the  Detroit.  From  the  standpoint  of  quality, 
only  young,  tender  beets  should  be  canned.  Sort, 
putting  uniform  size  together.  In  preparing  beets 
for  boiling,  be  careful  not  to  cut  the  stems  off  too  closely 
or  to  break  the  root.  This  will  cause  loss  of  juice 
with  accompanying  loss  of  color  and  flavor.  Boil 
until  three-fourths  done,  peel,  pack  in  layers  of  three 
or  four,  fitting  the  second  layer  into  the  spaces  left  by 
the  first  layer,  and  repeat.  Cover  with  clear  hot 
water.  Process  quart  jars  1 hour  at  212°  F.  or  30  min- 
utes under  5 lbs.  steam.  Do  not  allow  cold  water  to 
touch  the  beets  after  they  have  been  cooked. 

Carrots.  Proceed  the  same  as  for  beets. 

Corn.  Much  depends  upon  careful  selection  of 
tender,  juicy  corn  before  it  reaches  a starchy  stage. 
It  should  never  stand  longer  than  a few  minutes  after 
being  taken  from  the  stalk.  Corn  which  has  passed 
the  milky  stage  or  is  stale  is  very  difficult  to  sterilize. 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


215 


Blanch  on  the  cob  1 to  3 minutes.  Cut;  pack  into 
jars  to  within  1-inch  of  the  top.  Add  salt  and  sugar 
seasoning  and  cover  with  clear  water.  Paddle  to  allow 
liquor  to  penetrate  to  the  bottom  of  the  jar.  Process 
quarts  at  212°  F.  intermittently  for  Ij  hours  on  the 
first  day  and  1 hour  on  the  two  succeeding  days,  rais- 
ing the  clamp  during  each  processing.  Corn  expands 
in  cooking  and  jars  may  be  broken  unless  lids  are 
loosened  during  processing.  For  pints,  let  the  period 
of  processing  be  1 hour  each  time.  With  steam  under 
pressure,  process  corn  1 hour  and  20  minutes  under  15 
lbs.  pressure  at  a temperature  of  250°  F.  Take  every 
precaution  to  have  good  rubbers. 

Okra.  Select  young,  tender  pods,  remove  stem 
without  cutting  into  seed  pod.  Blanch  6 to  8 minutes. 
Plunge  into  cold  salt  bath  as  for  peas.  Pack,  cover 
with  brine,  and  process  intermittently,  or  30  minutes 
under  10  lbs.  steam  pressure. 

Peas.  Peas  are  more  difiicult  to  can  than  most 
other  vegetables,  and  great  care  should  be  taken  to 
have  them  very  fresh  and  young.  They  are  best 
gathered  in  the  early  morning  or  when  cool.  Work 
should  be  done  rapidly,  and  peas  should  not  stand 
after  being  shelled.  Shell  and  sort,  putting  peas  of 
the  same  size  and  degree  of  maturity  together.  Be 
sure  not  to  use  hard  ripe  peas  among  tender  ones. 

Blanching  is  very  important.  If  well  done  it  pre- 
vents cloudy  Kquor,  makes  the  peas  tender,  and  also 
removes  some  of  the  gluey  substance  which  coats 
them.  Blanch  1 to  4 minutes,  depending  upon  the 
maturity  of  the  peas.  Put  again  into  cold  salt  water  (1 
tbsp.  salt  to  1 qt.  water)  for  an  instant  after  blanching. 

'Drain  and  pack  to  within  J inch  of  the  top  of  the 
jar.  If  too  full,  some  of  the  peas  will  burst  and  make 


216 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


the  liquor  cloudy.  Add  sugar  and  salt  seasoning, 
fill  with  water,  and  paddle  well. 

If  peas  are  very  small  and  tender,  process  pints  at 
boiling  for  2 hours  continuously.  If  medium-sized 
peas  are  packed,  process  intermittently  at  boiling 
or  45  minutes  under  10  lbs.  steam  pressure. 

Peppers.  The  best  sweet  peppers  for  canning  are 
the  Spanish  varieties  known  as  pimentoes.  The  fruit 
of  these  peppers  has  very  thick  flesh,  tough  skin,  and  is 
comparatively  smooth  and  free  from  ridges.  The 
bell  peppers  are  not  suitable  varieties  for  canning. 
Peppers  should  be  ripe,  sound,  and  free  from  bruises. 
Sort,  using  the  whole  peppers  for  canning  and  small 
or  broken  peppers  for  products  such  as  sauces,  soups, 
chutneys,  and  Dixie  relish.  Prepare  for  peeling  by 
placing  peppers  in  a hot  oven  for  6 to  8 minutes,  being 
careful  not  to  allow  them  to  become  hot  enough  to 
discolor.  Peel,  cut  out  stem,  remove  seeds,  and  pack 
dry  in  flattened  layers.  No  water  or  seasoning  is 
used  in  the  preparation  of  these  peppers;  the  proc- 
essing brings  out  a thick  liquor  which  almost  covers 
them  in  the  can.  Process  pints  for  30  minutes. 

Sweet  Potatoes.  The  canning  of  sweet  potatoes  with 
uniformly  successful  results  is  difficult.  It  is  very 
much  better  to  use  correct  methods  of  storing  than 
to  can  them. 

A sweet  potato  which  is  dry  and  mealy  when  canned 
is  desirable.  The  Nancy  Hall  is  one  of  the  best  varie- 
ties for  canning.  Triumph  and  Southern  Queen  also 
are  used. 

Processing  sweet  potatoes  intermittently  tends  to 
darken  the  product;  therefore  a continuous  period 
of  processing  at  boiling  is  advised  for  home  use.  Select 
absolutely  sound  potatoes  and  grade,  putting  together 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


217 


those  of  the  same  size.  Boil  or  steam  until  three- 
fourths  done.  Peel  and  pack  hot  at  once  to  prevent 
discoloring.  Process  3 to  5 hours  continuously  at 
boiling,  or  70  minutes  at  250°  F. 

Concentrated  Vegetable  Soup,  Any  desired  mixture 
of  vegetables  may  be  packed  for  home  use.  A good 
combination  consists  of  1 quart  concentrated  tomato 
pulp,  1 pint  corn  or  tiny  lima  beans,  1 pint  okra,  4 
tsp.  salt  and  sugar  seasoning,  1 small  onion  chopped, 
and  J c.  of  chopped  sweet  red  pepper.  Cook  the 
tomatoes,  pepper,  and  onion,  put  through  a sieve  to 
remove  seeds,  and  cook  down  to  about  the  consistency 
of  ketchup.  Measure,  add  the  corn  or  beans  and  okra, 
which  have  been  prepared  as  for  canning,  add  season- 
ing, and  cook  all  together  for  10  minutes.  Pack  and 
process  quarts  for  2 hours  continuously  at  boiling, 
or  for  30  minutes  under  10  lbs.  steam  pressure.  (See 
recipe  for  tomato  paste.) 

Spinach,  Prepare  the  spinach  by  cutting  off  all 
dead  leaves  and  roots.  Cover  each  peck  of  spinach 
thus  prepared  with  scalding  soda  solution  (1  tsp. 
soda  to  1 gallon  water)  and  allow  to  stand  for  2 min- 
utes. Wash  thoroughly  through  several  cold  waters, 
and  drain  well.  Blanch  in  rapidly  boiling  water  for 
4 minutes.  Drain  well,  pack  into  jars,  cover  with 
boihng  brine,  and  process  pint  jars  1 to  2 hours  at 
boiling,  or  30  minutes  under  5 lbs.  steam  pressure. 

If  it  is  desirable  to  can  other  greens,  these  directions 
may  be  followed. 

Tomato,  Select  firm,  uniformly  red,  ripe  tomatoes  of 
medium  size.  Put  into  trays  and  lower  into  boiling 
water  for  1 minute.  Remove  and  cut  out  the  core 
with  a slender-pointed  knife  without  cutting  into  the 
seed  cells.  Peel  promptly  and  pack  into  jars.  Add 


218 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


sugar  and  salt  seasoning  and  fill  the  jars  with  a thick 
tomato  sauce.  This  procedure  is  economical,#  because 
each  quart  jar  will  give  whole  tomatoes  for  salads  or 
baking  and  a tomato  puree  for  soups  or  sauces.  This 
puree  or  sauce,  which  is  poured  over  the  whole  tomatoes, 
is  made  by  cooking  the  small  or  broken  tomatoes  until 
tender.  The  seeds  are  then  removed  and  the  pulp 
is  concentrated  by  boihng  to  about  the  consistency 
of  ketchup.  Process  quarts  25  minutes  at  boiling. 

Tomato  Sauce  or  Puree.  If  a more  economical  utili- 
zation of  space  within  the  jar  is  desired,  a more  con- 
centrated mixture  can  be  packed.  This  also  pro- 
vides for  the  use  of  small  or  broken  tomatoes  and  large 
tomatoes  unsuited  for  canning. 

Cut  the  tomatoes  and  add  1 large-sized  onion 
chopped  and  1 c.  chopped  sweet  red  pepper  to  each 
gallon  of  tomatoes.  Cook  until  tender,  put  through 
a sieve,  and  add  sugar  and  salt  seasoning  in  the  pro- 
portion of  1 tsp.  to  each  quart  of  pulp.  Cook  until 
the  consistency  of  ketchup,  stirring  constantly.  Pack 
hot  into  jars  or  bottles  and  process  pint  jars  25  minutes 
at  boiling. 

Vegetable  Mixtures.  Attractive  and  economical  vege- 
table mixtures  to  be  served  in  salads,  with  omelets  or 
escalloped  dishes,  and  as  garnishes  for  meat  dishes  can  be 
packed.  This  can  be  done  often  when  small  quantities 
are  left  from  packing  different  vegetables  whole. 
Any  desired  combinations  may  be  made.  Vegeta- 
bles maturing  in  the  same  season  should  be  used. 
A good  combination  for  the  spring  would  be  carrots, 
peas,  string  beans,  and  onions.  A mixture  which 
could  be  made  from  the  fall  garden  might  consist 
of  peppers,  celery,  onions,  and  small  lima  beans.  All 
these  vegetables  are  prepared  separately,  as  for  canning. 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


219 


and  packed  in  layers  in  the  jar.  Each  layer  should  be 
packed  as  tightly  as  possible  before  the  next  is  added. 
When  the  jar  is  filled,  cover  with  brine  and  process 
2 hours  continuously  or  intermittently.  Beets  can 
not  be  used  in  this  mixture  because  they  discolor  the 
entire  contents  of  the  jar. 

The  time-tables  given  for  processing  are  safe  only 
when  young  vegetables  are  secured.  Mature  or  tough 
vegetables  require  a longer  period  or  higher  tem- 
perature. 

Canning  in  Tin 

Before  undertaking  canning  in  tin,  special  equipment, 
including  capping  steel,  tipping  copper,  fire  pot  for 
heating  tools,  cans  with  solder-hemmed  caps,  flux, 
sal  ammoniac,  and  wire  solder,  must  be  secured. 
Follow  all  instructions  for  canning  in  glass  up  to  the 
point  where  packing  is  done.  See  time-table  for 
blanching  period  and  for  processing  period  for  con- 
tainers of  different  sizes.  Note  also  the  vegetables 
and  fruits  which  require  enamel-lined  or  inside-lac- 
quered cans. 

NUMBER  OF^CANS  PER  BUSHEL  YIELDED  BY  THE 
FOLLOWING  VEGETABLES 

1 bushel  of  tomatoes  yields  24  No.  2 cans. 

1 bushel  of  tomatoes  yields  18  No.  3 cans. 

1 bushel  of  beans  yields  20  No.  2 cans. 

1 bushel  of  beans  yields  14  No.  3 cans. 

1 bushel  of  peas  in  hull  yields  25  No.  2 cans. 

100  ears  of  corn  yields  30  No.  2 cans. 

Flux  is  used  in  cleaning  and  retinning  tools  and  is 
also  used  in  sealing  the  cans.  It  is  brushed  around 
the  cap  before  the  hot  tool  is  applied,  and  causes  the 
solder  to  adhere  to  the  tin. 


220 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Making  Flux.  Put  some  commercial  hydrochloric 
(muriatic)  acid  into  a glass  or  crockery  vessel  (not 
metal),  add  strips  of  sheet  zinc  until  no  more  can  be 
dissolved.  To  this  add  an  equal  quantity  of  water. 
Label  this  “ Flux  ” and  use  carefully.  When  canning, 
have  one  vessel  (a  can  will  do)  with  enough  flux  in 
it  to  clean  the  tools.  Keep  separately  in  a glass  bottle 
the  quantity  to  be  used  in  sealing  cans. 

Cleaning  and  Tinning  the  Steel  and  Copper.  It  is 
of  flrst  importance  to  have  the  capping  steel  and 
tipping  copper  in  good  condition.  These  may  need 
to  be  rubbed  with  coarse  sandpaper  or  on  a soft  brick 
to  smooth  them,  or  the  steel  may  have  to  be  flled 
to  remove  the  rust.  In  the  latter  case  care  must 
be  taken  to  keep  the  edge  of  the  steel  true.  Both 
the  capping  steel  and  tipping  copper  must  be  kept 
tinned  or  coated  with  solder  to  make  the  solder  flow 
evenly  when  sealing.  Have  ready  in  a can  a handful 
of  sal  ammoniac  mixed  with  a few  pieces  of  solder. 
Heat  the  already  smoothed  capping  steel  or  tipping 
copper  until  almost  red  hot,  dip  into  the  flux,  then  into 
the  sal  ammoniac  and  solder,  turning  it  about  and 
rubbing  until  bright  and  well  coated  with  solder. 
Then  dip  into  the  flux  again. 

Packing.  (See  table,  p.  225,  for  size  of  cans  to  use 
for  different  vegetables.)  The  Federal  laws  require 
cans  packed  for  sale  to  be  filled  as  full  of  food  as  is 
practicable  for  processing  and  to  contain  only  enough 
liquor  to  fill  the  spaces  and  cover  the  contents.  Weigh 
a sufficient  number  of  cans  before  and  after  filling  to 
obtain  an  accurate  idea  of  average  net  weight.  On 
account  of  expansion  in  processing,  corn  can  be  packed 
less  full  than  other  vegetables.  These  instructions  do 
not  cover  the  canning  of  corn  for  market.  Mark  the 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


221 


cans  with  a pencil  or  knife  to  show  contents.  Plan 
in  advance  and  work  rapidly.  Let  one  person  do  the 
packing  and  another  attend  to  the  weighing.  Do  not 
allow  filled  cans  to  stand  before  adding  liquor  and 
exhausting.  To  do  so  will  injure  the  product. 

Adding  Brine,  Sirup,  or  Water.  After  adding  to 
within  \ inch  of  top,  shake  the  can  gently  to  displace 
all  air  within  it.  Now  clean  and  wipe  the  groove 
around  the  opening.  Slip  on  the  cap,  and  weigh  before 
sealing  to  be  sure  of  having  the  required  weight. 

Fluxing  and  Capping.  Apply  the  fiux  carefully 
around  the  groove,  making  sure  that  none  of  it  enters 
the  can.  Use  a small  brush  or  cord,  or  little  mop 
made  by  tying  a piece  of  clean  white  cloth  around 
the  end  of  a small  stick.  The  flux  is  used  to  make  the 
solder  adhere  to  the  tin.  Apply  the  clean,  hot  capping 
steel,  holding  the  cap  in  place  with  the  center  rod  while 
you  lower  the  steel,  and  turn  it  steadily  until  the  solder 
flows.  Hold  the  rod  firmly  and  lift  the  steel  with  a 
sudden  twist,  to  swing  the  melted  solder  around  the 
groove  evenly. 

A good  fire  pot  can  be  made  out  of  a galvanized 
bucket  if  ingenuity  be  employed.  Charcoal  or  corn  cobs 
can  be  used  as  fuel. 

Exhausting.  Place  the  cans  in  trays,  and  lower  into 
boiling  water  to  within  1 inch  of  the  top  to,  drive  the 
air  out  of  the  cans.  Let  them  stay  the  shortest  possible 
time  necessary  to  drive  out  the  air.  Ordinarily  3 
minutes  is  enough,  and  the  temperature  need  not  again 
reach  boiling  before  cans  are  taken  out.  Exhausting 
is  necessary.  If  omitted,  the  air  left  in  the  can  ex- 
pands, causing  it  to  bulge.  The  can  may  not  resume 
normal  shape  again,  or  if  it  does  and  is  exposed  to  a 
warmer  temperature  it  may  again  expand,  giving  the 


222 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


appearance  of  a “ swell.’’  This  will  not  only  prevent 
sale  of  that  can,  but  may  also  cut  off  future  orders. 
Furthermore,  the  presence  of  air  may  cause  the  tin  to 
dissolve  more  readily  and  enter  into  the  food. 

Tipping.  Close  the  small  hole  in  top  of  the  can 
immediately  after  exhausting.  Apply  flux  as  for  cap- 
ping, and  use  a little  wire  solder  to  close  the  hole. 
Hold  the  solder  with  the  left  hand  near  the  hole,  and 
barely  touch  the  hot  copper  to  it,  so  that  only  a bead 
will  drop  and  cover  the  hole.  This  makes  a neat  tip. 

Processing.  Boil  the  cans  which  have  been  exhausted 
and  tipped,  to  sterilize  the  contents.  Have  the  water 
boiling  vigorously  when  the  cans  go  in.  Lower 
cans  slowly  under  the  water  and  look  out  for  any  show- 
ers of  bubbles  from  the  can.  These  show  that  it 
leaks  at  the  point  from  which  the  bubbles  come  and 
must  be  taken  out  and  resoldered.  Begin  counting 
time  when  the  water  first  boils  after  immersing  the 
cans.  Keep  it  boiling  constantly.  In  intermittent 
processing,  the  vegetable  is  processed  for  1 hour  on 
each  of  3 successive  days.  The  time  sometimes  is 
reduced  to  2 days  with  very  young  string  beans  and 
some  more  easily  sterilized  vegetables.  It  is  not 
possible  to  state  the  shortest  time  which  may  be 
used  safely,  because  of  the  varying  conditions. 

Cooling.  Cool  all  canned  products  as  quickly  as 
possible  to  stop  the  cooking,  which  breaks  down  the 
fruit  and  injures  the  flavor  and  color.  Plunge  the  cans 
into  very  cold  water  immediately,  especially  when 
processing  intermittently.  Never  stack  cans  close  to- 
gether until  entirely  cold. 

Labeling.  After  8 to  10  days,  or  immediately  before 
selling,  label  all  cans.  Place  the  sealed  end  down, 
so  that  the  opposite  end  will  appear  at  the  top  when 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


223 


placed  on  the  shelf.  Use  a rather  dry  paste,  and  put 
it  only  on  the  end  of  the  label,  so  that  no  paste  will 
touch  the  tin.  If  paste  touches  the  can,  it  may  cause 
rust.  Where  a damp  climate  causes  cans  to  rust 
easily,  the  outside  of  the  can  may  be  lacquered  before 
being  labeled.  Net  weight  in  pounds  and  ounces, 
and  packer’s  name  and  address,  should  appear  on  each 
label. 

Standards  for  4-H  Brand  Canned  Vegetables 

Tomatoes.  Cans  to  contain  not  less  than  2 pounds 
1 ounce  tomatoes  in  No.  3 and  not  less  than  1 pound 
4 ounces  tomatoes  in  No.  2 cans.  To  be  filled  with 
sound  ripe  fruit,  carefully  peeled  and  cored;  tomatoes 
to  be  whole  or  in  large  pieces,  firm,  uniformly  red,  and 
of  good  flavor.  No  juice  in  excess  of  the  amount 
present  in  the  tomatoes  canned  is  allowed.  Any  water 
is  considered  an  adulteration. 

Tomatoes  and  Green  Pepper.  Cans  to  contain  not 
less  than  2 pounds  packed  in  No.  3 cans.  For  this 
pack  add  1 medium-size  green  sweet  pepper,  after 
removing  the  stem  and  seeds,  to  each  can  of  tomatoes. 

String  Beans.  Net  weight,  in  No.  3 can,  before  liquor 
is  added,  should  be  at  least  1 pound  8 ounces,  brine 
8 to  10  ounces.  Net  weight  in  No.  2 can  should  be 
13  ounces  beans  and  about  8 ounces  liquor.  Beans 
to  be  tender,  green,  uniform  in  size,  well  strung,  and 
of  good  flavor.  The  net  weight  appearing  on  label 
for  No.  3 can  should  be  2 pounds,  and  for  No.  2 can 
1 pound  5 ounces. 

Peas.  No.  2 cans  to  have  at  least  13§  ounces  net 
weight  of  peas  and  about  8|  ounces  liquor;  peas  to  be 
fairly  uniform  in  size,  tender,  whole,  and  of  good 
flavor;  liquor  clear.  Net  weight  appearing  on  label 
should  be,  for  No.  2 cans,  1 pound  8 ounces. 


224 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Bahy  Beets.  To  be  packed  in  No.  2 lacquered  tins, 
about  30  baby  beets  to  each  can,  maximum  size  1| 
inches  in  diameter  and  average  size  1 inch  in  diameter. 
No.  2 can  to  have  at  least  16  ounces  whole  beets  and 
4 ounces  hquid.  Net  weight  appearing  on  label 
should  be,  for  No.  2 cans,  1 pound  4 ounces. 

Okra.  Net  weight  of  contents  in  No.  3 can  should 
appear  on  label,  2 pounds.  Only  young,  tender  okra 
should  be  packed,  and  it  is  best  simply  to  remove  the 
cap  without  cutting  into  the  seed  pod  and  to  pack  it 
whole.  Brine  is  added  as  explained  in  the  table. 

Peppers.  No.  2 cans  to  contain  from  8 to  10  whole 
peppers.  Flat  No.  1 cans  to  contain  4 or  5 whole 
peppers.  Net  weight  of  contents  appearing  on  the 
label  should  be  for  No.  2 can  not  less  than  1 pound, 
or  flat  No.  1 can  not  less  than  8 ounces. 

Soup  Mixture.  This  should  consist  of  a mixture 
which  is  made  in  the  proportion  of  one-half  tomato 
pulp,  one-fourth  corn  or  tiny  lima  beans,  and  one- 
fourth  okra,  with  seasoning  added.  One  shce  of  onion 
2 inches  in  diameter  should  be  added  to  each  No.  2 can. 
The  tomatoes  should  be  heated,  rubbed  through  a sieve 
and  cooked  down  to  about  the  consistency  of  ketchup 
before  measuring;  then  the  corn,  okra,  onion,  and  sea- 
soning should  be  added  and  cooked  until  the  corn 
and  okra  are  about  three-fourths  done.  Then  pack 
into  cans  and  follow  directions  as  given  in  the  table 
below.  Net  weight  appearing  on  label  of  No.  2 can 
should  be  1 pound  4^  ounces. 

Standards  for  4-n  Brand  Canned  Fruits 

Figs.  The  net-weight  contents  of  a No.  2 enamel- 
lined  can  of  figs  should,  as  shown  on  the  label,  be  not 
less  than  1 pound  6 ounces.  Figs  should  remain 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


225 


m 

PQ 

O ^ 

M 

O ;s 

br  ^ 


12; 

J2; 

< 

o 

0 

H 

PQ 

H 

1 

W 


w 

_ o 

M O 
•fs  Ph 

P3 
pi] 
Eh 
< 

«£2  I 

•+a  o 

.2  W 

:a 

CO 

3 


■+» 

p* 

B 

o 

•f3 

0} 


O 

P 


«n 

iriH 


H . . ® . 

S w m b m 

o o O 5 OJ 

.-§  . . ;=!  ;3^  p 

S o o fl  d a 


O O O' 
^ rt  +3 

fl 


SSoS 
100  10 

<N  COCOi-H 


2 OQ 

fH 

O o 

02 

2(M 

2 c) 

+3 


(Ml 


® s 

^ s 

;30. 

flCO 

S3 

o»o 

(N(Nl 


cocoioeococoocoeococo>cc<i»ococ<jcc 


(NC<ieOIM(M(NC<l(M(MiH<NeOC<lNM(MeO 


d d 

*P  *C 
PQW 


. ^ . . (h  • Sh  . 

, ^ ^ ^ • 

’ d " ’ & ' o3 

. • • • 

I ! I I ! 

. Sh*  . . Sh  . sT  . 

.d  • .d  .d  . 

. bO  . . bO  . bO  . 

d . d 
b d W)  . bO 

. d . . d . d . 

0 ® „•  0 ® „•  » ^.c 

1 P*  • 

) bq  • m 0 

li^'S  *,1^. Slic'd 

Sm  :SmSo 


coco 


m 
d 
m c8 
d OJ 
W)^ 


o o 

au 

*0  2 
0^0 

Pita  ^ 

- -'S 

o o S 

<=*  *=i  a 

o 

T3't3^ 

wN'rel-^'^ 

m_^^COOOX5^  O 
O O O o O O o3 
•+3  o O O 

(nOOthocoPh 


c3  C 


BO  O 


£ d 


CQ 


d 
o 

- o 

_ - ro,:Q  o 

2 O 0^  liH  o.d  O 

O d 0 4^ 

o M ^ ^ cs  d 

o ?5  d 


^ 3.S  s 

bo  .2  .2  CJ  d Opi^  o <D  O"  o a O 


P^’C  a 2^ 

00^  .dO^ww— W-TUU-'-' 

<joQ  h^PQOOOPhPs  P^P^ggodH 


o 

d 

43 

X 

a 

o 

i3 

o 

o 

> 


'^00010  »d 

si  1— I rH  1— I 1— I 1— i 

o 


rv  O O 00  00  O 
4^^  T}^  (M  (N  10 
o <NCS|<N(M(M 


sso^ooo 

si  CO  Tti  CO  CO  i> 


o . 
w . 
o . 
> . 


. <1? 


• S-l 
. 43 

. d 
. o 
. o 

. d ^ 

: 8-g  a 

• • •“  S 43 

d 05  as  ^ 

H d d.S  ? 

i-i4  o o a ^ 

OPkOQJCOQ 


. o 

. 43 
d 
• 43 
O 


''d 

sooooio 

si  T— ( rH  r-4  rH 

O 

Ph 


rv  OOOOOO 
^ Tfi  (M  10 

O <M(M<MCq(M 


oio»ooo 

si  CO  Tj<  10  CO  00 


o o 

^;z; 

CO  m 

d d 
2 d d 
d o o 

bCpdpO 

2 bO  M 
d d d ® d 

TO  43  ^80 

<!cca}PQO 


§ 

d 

15 


CO 

• d 

3 i3 

l§  ^ 

dd3 

I 

a>  o *3 

^ (D  to 

o§ 

C ;3 

a"^ 

d d 

" d 

.2  o 

CJ 

•i| 

F! 

•r;  • ro 
d* 

43  . bfl 

® O 03 

d a d 

QQ  ^ ^ 

43  M 2 d 02 

2 bhcS  C'd  2 

o o d S 9 

2 d 43  c?  ^ 

a-d  ajio  o* 

d oi'din  „ 
a>  43  o o ,2 
CO  d X d bo^ 
d o 01^2  d S 
d o . • d3  2 


•p3 

Qj  d 

ad 


a 


.d 

c 

do 

O 

o 


O 0, 
•S  ^4 

Pi  d 


-I  S ”3 

p d ® ^ 


,^-4^  a d-^ 

s.s  ° s 
1-315''^^ 

Q,  c3  M 01^  § 

^ Pi-l'P  M Si 

^ o 043  o a 

d ^43  5 03-^ 

<N  O *.2  M d 
..  d ® 43  e3  o 

j|2  1.2  S-S 
.sJS'SgS 

-d  ^ d P* 
T3  ® o 03  "S 
o DQ  d cj  2 

a-S  2 

gO'^SdS 

^ to  02 1:  *45  s 
d“^  d ffipd 
bo  dT^-S  d te 
o 05  <u  d 52 
.2,0  ®pd  ® ® 
d ji  d d 


I .S  d d 
S Si  2 «5  o C 

O Opd  05 

;z:OHPqp^ai 


226 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


TIME-TABLE  FOR  CANNING  FRUITS 


In  Tin. 

In  Glass. 

Fruit. 

Blanch. 

Sirup. 

No. 

of 

Can. 

Ex- 

haust, 

Min- 

utes. 

Proc- 

ess, 

Min- 

utes. 

Jar. 

Proc- 

ess, 

Min- 

utes. 

Apples 

1 minute 

No.  1 

3 

2 

8 

Quart 

12 

Berries 

No.  3 

2 

2 

10 

Quart 

Quart 

12 

Cherries,  sweet. 

15  seconds 

No.  3 

2 

2 

20 

25 

Cherries,  sour. . 

15  seconds 

No.  4 

2 

2 

20 

Quart 

25 

Currants 

No.  3 

2 

2 

15 

Quart 

Quart 

Quart 

Quart 

Pint 

15 

Figs 

Soda  blanch 

No.  3 

2 

2 

25 

30 

Gooseberries. . . 

No.  3 

2 

2 

15 

20 

Guava 

15  seconds 

No.  4 

2 

3 

20 

25 

Guava 

15  seconds 

3 

3 

25 

25 

May  haw 

No.  3 

2 

2 

20 

Quart 

25 

Peaches 

15  seconds 

No.  4 

3 

3 

15 

Quart 

Quart 

Quart 

20 

Pears 

15  seconds 

No.  3 

3 

3 , 

20 

25 

Plums 

Prick  with  needle 

No.  4 

2 

2 

12 

15 

Note. — Berries,  cherries,  currants,  figs,  gooseberries,  May  haws,  and  plums 
when  packed  in  tin  must  be  put  in  enamel-lined  cans. 

To  make  the  sirups  recommended,  boil  sugar  and  water  together  in  the  pro- 
portion given  below  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Strain  all  impurities  out  of  the 
sirup  before  using. 

Sirup  No.  1,  use  14  ounces  to  1 gallon  water. 

Sirup  No.  2,  use  1 pound  14  ounces  to  1 gallon  water. 

Sirup  No.  3,  use  3 pounds  9 ounces  to  1 gallon  water. 

Sirup  No.  4,  use  5 pounds  8 ounces  to  1 gallon  water. 

Sirup  No.  5,  use  6 pounds  13  ounces  to  1 gallon  water. 

The  sirup  for  canned  berries  is  made  out  of  berry  juice  instead  of  water. 

whole  and  a No.  2 can  should  contain  about  30  to  35 
whole  figs. 

Peaches.  A No.  3 can  should  have  at  least  I pound 
5 ounces  solids  (from  10  to  12  halves  of  peaches)  and 
11  ounces  liquid,  and  the  net  weight  appearing  on  label 
should  not  be  less  than  2 pounds. 

Pears.  The  net  weight  in  a No.  3 can  should  be 
not  less  than  2 pounds,  having  11  ounces  liquid,  1 
pound  5 ounces  solids  (from  12  to  14  halves  of  pears). 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


227 


Berries.  The  net  weight  of  a No.  3 can  of  black- 
berries or  raspberries  should  be  2 pounds;  of  a No.  2 
can,  1 pound  6 ounces;  whole  berries  weighing  about 
one-half  of  total  in  each  case.  The  berries  should  be 
large,  whole,  and  of  good  color  and  flavor.  The  sirup 
used  in  packing  must  be  made  out  of  strained  berry 
juice  and  sugar,  with  no  water  added.  Enamel- 
lined  cans  always  should  be  used. 

Jams,  Fruit  Butters,  and  Marmalades 

Jams  are  made  of  small  fruits  which  are  not  whole  or 
firm  enough  to  use  for  preserves.  No  attempt  is  made 
to  retain  the  original  shape  of  the  fruit,  the  finished 
product  having  a uniform  consistency.  Marmalades 
have  a more  jelly-like  texture,  and  thin  slices  of  the  fruit 
appear  suspended  throughout  the  mixture.  In  fruit 
butters  and  pastes  frequently  less  sugar  is  used  than 
in  jams,  and  the  product  is  more  concentrated.  Con- 
serves may  be  made  of  large  or  small  fruits,  cooked 
in  the  same  manner  as  jams.  Sometimes  nuts  are 
added. 

With  jams,  preserves,  and  jellies,  it  is  advisable  to  use 
a chemical  thermometer.  Centigrade  reading  ranging 
from  0°  to  110°,  which,  having  fewer  figures  than  a 
Fahrenheit  instrument,  is  more  easily  read.  The  stem 
of  this  instrument  should  be  12  or  14  inches  long,  so 
that  the  reading  will  appear  far  enough  above  the  sur- 
face to  be  easily  seen.  Fahrenheit  readings  given  in 
recipes  are  approximate. 

Well  glazed,  hermetically  sealed  stoneware  jars  with 
capacity  of  8 oz.  and  up,  are  suitable  and  attractive  con- 
tainers for  packing  jams,  marmalades,  relishes,  and 
pickles. 


228 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Jams  and  marmalades  may  be  packed  hot  in  ster- 
ilized jars  and  sealed  immediately.  When  packing 
for  market,  however,  it  is  far  safer  to  process  them 
both  to  insure  sterilization  and  a tight  seal.  Proc- 
ess pints  for  30  minutes  at  simmering  (87°  C.)  or 
188°  F. 

Apple  Butter.*  Measure  the  apples,  wash  to  remove 
dirt,  slice  into  small  pieces,  and  for  each  bushel  of  apples 
add  4 gallons  of  water;  boil  until  the  fruit  is  soft,  then 
rub  through  a screen  or  sieve. 

To  the  pulp  from  each  bushel  of  apples  add  2 gallons 
of  cider  that  has  been  concentrated  to  one-half  its 
original  volume.  Bring  to  a boil  and  add  12  lbs. 
of  sugar.  Continue  the  cooking,  and  just  before  the 
consistency  desired  for  finished  apple  butter  is  reached 
add  spices,  cinnamon,  and  cloves,  according  to  taste. 
When  the  butter  is  as  thick  as  desired,  place  in  ster- 
ilized containers  and  seal  immediately. 

Berry  Jam.  In  selecting  berries  for  jam,  the  ripe, 
broken  ones  will  give  fine  color  and  flavor,  but  about 
one-half  the  quantity  should  be  slightly  underripe. 
This  is  necessary  to  give  a jelly-like  consistency  to 
the  product.  Cooking  in  small  quantities  also  helps 
to  retain  color  and  flavor.  Weigh  the  berries  and 
allow  three-fourths  of  a pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound 
of  fruit.  Rapid  cooking  with  constant  care  is  essential. 

In  stirring  jam  use  a wooden  spoon  or  paddle,  mov- 
ing it  across  the  center  of  the  vessel  first  one  way  and 
then  the  opposite  and  next  around  the  pan,  gently 
moving  the  mixture  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  being 
careful  not  to  stir  rapidly  or  beat.  Cook  the  jam 
to  105°  C.  or  221°  F.  When  finished  it  will  give  the 

* Recipes  marked  with  an  asterisk  were  furnished  by  the  Carbohydrate  Lab- 
atory  of  the  Bureau  of  Chemistry. 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


229 


same  test  as  required  for  finished  jelly;  that  is,  when 
a little  is  held  a moment  and  cooled  in  a spoon,  it  will 
not  pour  from  the  side  of  the  spoon  but  will  fall  in  a 
sheet  or  flake.  Pack  and  seal  while  hot. 

Fig  Jam.  Select  very  ripe  figs,  remove  all  stems, 
treat  them  with  scalding  soda  solution,  and  rinse 
thoroughly.  (See  Fig.  Preserves,  p.  237.)  Cook  in 
quantities  nor  larger  than  3 lbs.  at  one  time.  Allow 
1|  lbs.  sugar  to  each  3 lbs.  of  figs.  Add  barely  enough 
water  to  start  the  cooking  (about  one-half  cup), 
crush  the  figs,  heat  to  boiling,  and  add  the  sugar. 
Cook  rapidly  to  105°  C.  or  221°  F.,  following  instruc- 
tions given  under  Berry  Jam.  Pack  and  process  at 
simmering  for  30  minutes. 

Guava  Paste.  Wash  the  guavas,  remove  blossom 
end,  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Add  sufficient  water  to 
start  cooking  without  burning,  cook  until  very  soft, 
rub  through  a sieve;  a flour  sifter  may  be  used  success- 
fully. Measure  the  part  which  has  passed  through 
the  sieve  and  for  each  cup  of  guava  add  one-half  cup 
of  sugar.  Continue  the  cooking  (stirring  constantly 
to  prevent  burning)  until  the  excess  of  water  is  driven 
off,  which  is  recognized  by  the  manner  in  which  the 
mixture  leaves  the  pan  on  stirring.  Remove  from  the 
fire,  pour  on  a marble  slab  or  on  paraffin  paper,  and 
when  cold  cut  into  slices  and  pack  in  a box  lined  with 
paraffin  paper. 

Peach  jam. 

2\  lb.  peaches  cut  into  small  pieces,  i c.  peach  juice. 

1 lb.  sugar.  J tsp.  whole  cloves. 

6 whole  allspice.  1 tsp.  cinnamon  bark. 

1 cracked  peach  seed.  1 sprig  mace. 

1 inch  ginger  root. 

(Tie  spices  in  cheese-cloth  bag.) 


230 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Cook  all  together  until  thick  as  marmalade  and 
clear  (to  105°  C.  or  221°  F.).  Pack  hot  in  hot  jars 
and  seal  at  once,  or  process. 

Citrus  Fruit  Marmalade  (three-day  method).*  1 
grapefruit;  1 orange;  1 lemon.  Wash  fruit  and  then 
cut  very  thin  through  pulp  and  rind,  discarding  all 
the  seeds.  Weigh  the  fruit  and  to  each  pound  of  the 
fruit  add  3 pounds  of  water.  Let  stand  over  night. 
Next  day  boil  for  30  minutes  and  let  stand  for  24 
hours.  Next  day  measure  or  weigh  the  fruit,  and  for 
each  pound  or  portion  of  fruit  juice  add  1 pound  or 
portion  of  sugar.  Bring  to  a boil  and  cook  until  it 
jellies,  stirring  so  as  to  keep  from  burning.  Place  in 
glasses  or  jars  while  still  hot,  allow  to  cool,  and  then 
cover  with  paraffin. 

Sweet  Orange  or  Grapefruit  Marmalade*  Wash  the 
fruit,  weigh  the  peel  and  discard  one-fourth  of  it, 
and  note  the  weight  of  edible  portion  plus  the  remaining 
peel.  Place  peel  in  water,  boil  for  5 minutes,  and  pour 
off  water.  Again  cover  peel  with  boiling  water  and 
allow  to  simmer  over  the  fire  until  tender.  Pour  off 
water  and  add  cold  water  to  harden  the  peel.  Then 
cut  into  as  thin  shces  as  possible.  Place  edible  part 
of  the  orange  or  grapefruit  in  a kettle  with  twice  the 
amount  of  water  as  of  fruit,  and  boil  until  the  pulp 
has  disintegrated.  Strain  through  a mushn  or  cheese- 
cloth bag,  and  for  each  pound  of  the  edible  portion 
and  shredded  peel  add  1|  lbs.  sugar.  Boil  until  the 
jellying  point  is  reached. 

Sour  Orange  Marmalade.* 

1 pound  peeled  sour  oranges. 

2 pounds  water. 

1 pound  sugar. 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


231 


Preparation  of  the  peel:  Wash  fruit,  remove  peel; 
discard  one-fourth  of  the  peel,  using  the  portion  free 
from  blemish.  Cut  this  peel  into  as  thin  shoes  as 
possible,  place  in  a kettle  with  four  times  its  weight  of 
water,  boil  for  10  minutes,  and  drain  free  from  water. 
Repeat  this  process  three  times. 

Preparation  of  the  juice:  After  the  peel  has  been 
removed,  weigh  the  fruit,  cut  into  small  pieces,  place 
in  a kettle,  and  for  each  pound  of  orange  add  2 lbs. 
water.  Boil  until  it  thoroughly  disintegrates.  Pour 
into  a flannel  jelly  bag  and  press  until  no  more  juice 
can  be  obtained.  Again  drain  juice  through  a clean 
flannel  jelly  bag  without  pressing. 

Pour  this  juice  into  a kettle,  add  the  peel,  bring  to  a 
boil,  add  1|  lbs.  sugar  for  each  pound  of  fruit,  and  con- 
tinue the  boiling  until  the  jelly  stage  is  reached,  which 
is  indicated  by  the  flaking  or  sheeting  from  the  spoon. 

Grape  Jam.  Select  grapes  about  one-half  of  which 
are  underripe  rather  than  entirely  ripe.  Wash  and 
stem  the  fruit.  Separate  the  pulp  from  the  skins. 
Cook  pulps  for  10  minutes  and  press  through  a sieve 
or  colander  to  remove  seeds.  Add  three-fourths  cup 
of  water  to  each  quart  of  skin  and  boil  until  tender. 
Then  put  the  pulp  and  skins  together  and  measure. 
For  every  quart  of  the  mixture  use  1 lb.  of  sugar. 
Bring  the  fruit  to  a boil,  add  the  sugar,  and  cook, 
stirring  frequently  until  it  will  give  the  jelly  test  or 
reaches  105°  C.  or  221°  F.  Pour  into  sterilized  jars 
and  process  as  for  jam. 

Gingered  Pears.  Use  pears  not  quite  ripe,  peel,  core, 
and  cut  into  thin  slices.  To  8 lbs.  of  pears,  allow  6 
lbs.  sugar,  1 cup  of  water,  and  the  juice  of  4 lemons. 
Cut  the  lemon  rinds  into  thin  strips,  and  add  them. 
Also  add  one-eighth  pound  of  ginger  root  cut  into 


232 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


pieces.  Simmer  until  thick  as  marmalade.  Pack 
like  peach  jam. 

Damson  Plum  Conserve. 

4 pounds  plums.  2 oranges. 

3 pounds  sugar.  1 pound  raisins. 

1 pound  shelled  nuts. 

Remove  the  seeds  and  chop  the  plums.  Peel  the 
oranges  and  slice  thinly  one-half  of  the  peel.  Discard 
the  other  peel  and  the  seeds.  Mix  chopped  plums, 
orange  pulp,  sliced  peel,  sugar  and  raisins.  Cook  all 
together  rapidjy  until  bright  and  thick  as  jam.  Add 
nuts  5 minutes  before  removing  from  the  fire.  If  a 
thermometer  is  available,  cook  to  102°  C.  or  215°  F. 
Add  the  nuts  and  cook  to  103°  C.  or  217°  F.  Remove 
from  fire,  cool,  and  pack  into  jars. 

Figs,  after  treating  with  soda  as  for  preserves,  may 
be  made  into  conserve  by  this  method. 

Fruit  pastes,  as  they  are  called,  consist  of  boiled- 
down  fruit  pulp  with  sugar  added  according  to  the  acid- 
ity of  the  fruit,  and  are  improved  in  flavor  if  several 
varieties  of  fruit  are  mixed.  After  the  fruit  paste  is 
made  (see  recipes),  it  can  be  colored  red,  yellow,  or 
green  with  harmless  vegetable  colors.  The  coloring 
is  stirred  into  the  boiling  mass  after  removing  from  the 
fire.  Different  flavors  also  can  be  added  at  this  stage 
if  desired.  The  paste  is  poured  out  in  a half-inch 
layer  on  flat  dishes,  marble,  or  glass  slabs,  which  are 
first  rubbed  with  a cloth  dipped  in  a good  salad  oil. 
The  dishes  are  then  exposed  to  draft  for  a couple  of 
days,  after  which  the  paste  is  cut  into  figures.  If  the 
paste  is  well  boiled  down  it  is  dried  more  easily.  (Many 
small  forms  useful  for  cutting  the  paste  can  be  had  on 
the  market.)  The  paste  can  also  be  cut  with  a common 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


233 


knife  or  with  a fluted  vegetable  knife,  or  it  can  be  cut 
in  round  cakes,  the  center  of  which  is  again  cut  with 
a smaller  circular  cutter;  there  will  thus  be  both  rings 
and  small  round  cakes.  The  cut  paste  is  placed  on 
paper,  sprinkled  with  crystallized  sugar  or  common 
granulated  sugar.  Then  it  stands  again  a couple  of 
days  exposed  to  draft,  is  dipped  in  crystallized  sugar 
and  packed  in  a tin  or  wooden  box  lined  with  parch- 
ment paper  and  with  layers  of  the  same  paper  placed 
between  the  layers  of  paste. 

The  paste  can  be  kept  thus  and  served  as  dessert, 
and  as  garnishing  on  creams  and  custards,  frozen 
creams,  large  cakes,  etc. 

Apricot  Paste.  1 lb.  powdered  sugar  to  1 lb.  fruit 
pulp.  Rub  the  fruit  pulp  through  a puree  strainer 
and  weigh  it.  Add  the  sugar,  put  it  over  a slow  fire, 
and  cook  until  very  thick,  so  that  when  a spoon  has 
been  passed  through  it  the  mess  does  not  run  together 
immediately.  Then  pour  the  paste  upon  flat  dishes 
which  have  been  rubbed  with  oil,  and  allow  it  to  dry. 
Cut  and  pack  in  layers  as  directed  above. 

In  the  same  manner  raspberry,  strawberry,  and  cur- 
rant pastes  are  made. 

Quince  Paste,  f lb.  powdered  sugar  for  each  pound 
of  fruit  pulp.  Wipe  the  fruit,  cut  into  quarters,  remove 
flower  and  core,  and  cook  in  water  until  very  tender. 
After  rubbing  the  pulp  through  a sieve,  weigh  it  and 
add  the  required  amount  of  sugar.  It  is  then  cooked 
until  very  thick.  Scalded  and  chopped  nut  kernels 
may  be  added.  The  pulp  remaining  after  the  juice 
has  been  extracted  for  quince  jelly  may  be  used  also. 

Gooseberry  Paste.  1 lb.  powdered  sugar  for  each 
pound  of  fruit  pulp.  Use  part  ripe  and  part  slightly- 
underripe  berries.l  Cook  as  previously  described. 


234 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


This  paste  may  be  colored  before  it  is  poured  out. 
Different  flavors  also  can  be  added  to  the  gooseberry 
as  well  as  chopped  or  sliced  almonds  or  other  nuts. 

Apple  Paste?-  ^ lb.  powdered  sugar  to  1 lb.  pulp 
as  rubbed  through  a sieve.  For  this  product  apples 
that  are  of  lower  grade  than  is  required  for  some  other 
purposes  can  be  used.  Cut  the  apples  into  quarters. 
Remove  flower,  stem  and  core.  Put  fruit  into  cold 
water  until  it  is  ready  to  be  cooked.  Boil  tender  under 
cover  and  over  a very  low  Are  in  order  not  to  scorch. 
Rub  the  tender  apples  through  a coarse  sieve,  weigh, 
and  put  in  the  kettle  to  be  cooked  with  the  sugar 
under  constant  stirring  until  it  is  rather  firm.  It  can 
be  varied  in  taste  by  the  aid  of  different  additions,  as, 
for  instance,  vanilla,  peppermint,  or  orange  flavor, 
or  cooked  with  either  finely  cut  citron,  finely  cut  lemon 
peel,  or  blanched  and  cut  nut  kernels.  The  paste  is 
poured  out,  dried,  and  kept  as  the  others. 

Other  fruit  pastes  can  be  made  of  cherries,  plums, 
kumquats,  guavas,  and  other  tropical  fruits. 

It  is  often  advisable  to  make  several  different  pastes. 
When  nearly  dry  (before  cutting)  place  different  colored 
or  different  flavored  layers  on  top  of  each  other  as  in  a 
layer  cake.  With  a sharp  knife  cut  in  one-half  inch 
strips  through  all  layers  and  dry. 

Tomato  Paste. 

1 qt.  thick  strained  tomato  pulp.  J tsp.  salt. 

1 slice  onion.  1 tsp.  sugar. 

4 tbsp.  chopped  sweet  red  pepper  1 tbsp.  mixed  spices. 

pulp,  or  1 tsp.  paprika. 

Cook  spices,  tied  in  bag,  with  tomato  pulp  in  a pan 
over  boiUng  water  for  about  three  hours,  or  until  the 
paste  is  thick  enough  to  hold  the  shape  of  spoon  when 

1 The  recipes  for  the  fruit  pastes  were  furnished  by  Mr.  Frants  P.  Lund. 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


235 


tested  by  dipping  out  a spoonful.  Pack  hot,  process 
small  jars  15  minutes  in  water  bath  at  212°  F. 

Preserving 

A preserve  is  the  product  resulting  when  whole  fruits 
are  cooked  in  sirup  until  clear  and  transparent.  When 
properly  made  the  fruit  in  the  preserve  keeps  its  form, 
is  plump,  tender,  clear,  and  of  good  color,  the  sur- 
rounding sirup  being  also  clear  and  of  proper  density. 

In  making  preserves  the  object  is  to  have  the  fruit 
permeated  with  the  sirup.  It  is  well  known  that  if 
two  liquids  of  different  densities  be  brought  into  con- 
tact with  each  other  they  tend  to  mix  or  diffuse  until 
they  equalize  each  other  and  become  of  the  same 
density.  This  diffusion  takes  place  through  the  cell 
walls  of  fruit  or  vegetables  as  readily  as  if  they  were 
not  present  between  the  fruit  juice  and  the  denser 
liquid.  If  fruit  were  placed  at  once  in  a very  heavy 
sirup  the  difference  in  density  between  the  two  liquids 
would  be  so  great  that  the  sirup  would  absorb  the  fruit 
juice  rapidly.  This  would  cause  the  fruit  to  shrink 
and  become  shriveled  and  toughened.  The  sirup 
can  then  enter  the  fruit  with  great  difficulty.  In  order 
to  prevent  shrinkage  it  is  necessary  to  put  fruit  at 
first  into  this  sirup  and  increase  its  density  slowly 
enough  for  diffusion  to  take  place  and  for  the  fruit 
to  be  permeated  with  the  sirup.  This  is  done  by 
boiling  the  fruit  in  sirup  or  by  alternately  cooking 
and  allowing  the  product  to  stand  immersed  in  the 
sirup,  the  density  of  the  sirup  being  increased  by 
evaporation  or  by  substituting  a heavier  sirup  for  the 
lighter  one  after  each  period  of  standing.  It  at  any 
time  the  fruit  shrivels  or  wrinkles,  the  sirup  should 


236 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


be  made  less  dense  by  the  addition  of  water.  If 
this  process  be  carried  on  gradually  enough,  the  fruit 
may  be  completely  saturated  with  sugar  (as  is  the  case 
with  crystallized  products)  without  shrinking. 

In  order  to  measure  the  density  of  liquids  accu- 
rately and  proceed  with  certainty,  instruments  called 
hydrometers  have  been  devised.  The  one  for  the 
special  purpose  of  measuring  the  density  of  sugar 
solution  is  known  as  a saccharometer.  One  type  of 
saccharometer  is  a shot-weighted  glass  spindle  gradu- 
ated from  0 to  70  degrees,  a Balling  scale  being  used. 
When  placed  in  water  the  spindle  rests  on  the  bottom 
of  the  vessel  and  the  reading  at  the  surface  is  zero. 
As  the  density  is  increased  the  spindle  rises  until  when 
the  solution  is  saturated  with  sugar  at  the  tempera- 
ture indicated  the  reading  is  100.  This  saccharometer 
is  inexpensive  and  is  accurate  enough  for  ordinary  use. 
The  Brix  scale  has  the  same  gradations  of  density  as 
the  Balling,  but  is  slightly  more  accurate,  and  costs 
more.  It  may  be  secured  mercury-weighted.  In  using 
a saccharometer  it  is  necessary  to  have  a vessel  of  the 
same  depth,  in  which  to  float  it  to  make  the  reading. 
This  must  be  very  narrow  in  order  not  to  demand 
so  large  a quantity  of  sirup  to  measure  its  density. 
A 250  cubic  centimeter  glass  cylinder  or  a brass  sac- 
charometer cup  is  used. 

For  fruits  like  peaches,  pears,  watermelon  rind,  etc., 
preserving  should  be  begun  in  sirup  not  heavier  than 
30°  Balling  (No.  3 in  table,  p.  226).  Juicy  fruits  like 
berries  can  be  put  at  the  beginning  into  a heavier  sirup, 
about  40°  Balling,  because  the  abundant  juice  of  the 
fruit  quickly  reduces  the  density  of  the  sirup  before 
shrinking  can  take  place.  Finished  preserves  are 
packed  in  a sirup  ranging  from  50°  to  60°  Balling. 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


237 


Sirup  made  with  very  acid  fruits  can  be  made  heavier 
than  pure  sugar  sirups  without  danger  of  crystalliza- 
tion, because  the  acid  inverts  some  of  the  sugar,  chang- 
ing it  to  a form  which  will  not  crystallize  readily. 

Since  long  cooking  injures  the  color  and  flavor  of 
fruits,  it  is  desirable  to  cook  delicate  fruits  such  as 
berries  for  as  short  a time  as  possible.  Coohng  rapidly 
after  cooking  gives  preserves  a better  color  and  flavor 
than  can  be  secured  when  they  are  packed  hot.  Stand- 
ing immersed  in  sirup  after  cooking  also  helps  to  plump 
them.  If  berry  preserves  are  covered  for  a brief  time 
before  removing  from  fire  and  the  vessel  left  covered 
while  cooling,  the  product  will  be  more  plump. 

For  cooling,  shallow  enamel  trays  or  pans  are  desir- 
able. Tin  can  not  be  used  because  fruits  will  dis- 
color in  it.  Pack  preserves  cold,  bring  the  sirup  in 
which  they  have  stood  to  boiling  test,  and  if  of  proper 
density  pour  over  the  packed  preserves,  paddling  to 
remove  all  air  bubbles.  If  not  of  the  right  weight 
for  packing,  the  sirup  must  be  concentrated  by  boil- 
ing. To  seal  properly  and  to  insure  safety  from  mold 
it  is  necessary  to  process  all  preserves.  Since  they 
can  be  sterilized  below  the  boiling  point,  processing 
at  simmering  (89°  C.)  for  30  minutes  is  preferable 
to  boiling,  because  this  temperature  will  give  better 
color. 

Fig  Preserves.  6 qts.  figs;  2 qts.  sugar;  3 qts. 
water.  Put  the  figs  into  a boiling  soda  solution  (1  c. 
soda  to  6 qts.  of  boiling  water)  and  allow  figs  to  remain 
about  5 minutes.  Rinse  the  figs  well  by  putting  them 
through  two  cold  baths.  Drain  the  fruit  thoroughly 
and  add  gradually  to  the  skimmed  sirup,  which  has  been 
made  by  boiling  the  sugar  and  water  together  for  10 
minutes.  Cook  rapidly  until  the  figs  are  clear  and 


238 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


tender  (about  2 hours).  Carefully  lift  the  fruit  out  and 
place  in  shallow  pans.  Cover  the  figs  with  the  sirup 
and  allow  to  stand  overnight.  Pack  the  cold  figs 
in  sterilized  jars,  fill  each  jar  to  overflowing  with  the 
sirup.  Cap,  clamp,  and  process. 

Strawberry  Preserves.  2 lbs.  berries;  1|  lbs.  sugar; 
1 c.  berry  juice.  Pick  over  the  fruit  and  put  together 
all  firm,  perfect  berries.  Slightly  heat,  crush,  and 
strain  the  others  to  obtain  the  juice.  Make  a sirup 
of  the  sugar  and  juice,  bring  to  the  boiling  point, 
remove  from  the  fire,  and  cool  before  adding  the  berries. 
Add  the  berries  a few  at  a time.  Place  again  over  the 
fire  and  heat  slowly  to  boiling.  Cook  rapidly  to  106°  C. 
or  223°  F.  If  a thermometer  is  not  at  hand,  cook 
until  berries  are  bright  and  transparent.  Cool  and 
pack  cold  in  sterilized  jars.  Process  at  simmering 
(87°  C.  or  188°  F.)  to  give  best  results  in  color  and 
flavor.  For  12-oz.  or  pint  jars  at  this  temperature, 
process  for  § hour.  Other  berries  may  be  preserved 
in  the  same  way. 

Watermelon  Preserves.  Cut  1 lb.  watermelon  rind 
into  inch  squares.  Allow  to  stand  overnight  in  clear 
water.  Drain  and  cover  with  about  30°  sirup  (2  c. 
sugar  to  1 qt.  water).  Boil  for  25  minutes.  Let  stand 
overnight  immersed  in  sirup.  Next  morning  add  juice 
of  5 lemon  and  three  slices  of  lemon  additional  for  each 
pound.  Cook  until  transparent  (about  1 hour).  Let 
stand  until  cold.  Pack,  add  the  sirup,  garnishing  with 
slices  of  lemon,  cap,  and  process. 

Gingered  Watermelon  Rind.  To  each  pound  of  rind 
cut  into  1-inch  squares,  add  2 qts.  of  water  and  1 oz. 
slacked  lime.  Let  stand  in  lime  water  overnight. 
Next  morning  drain  and  let  stand  1 to  2 hours  in  fresh 
cold  water.  Drain  well  and  boil  rapidly  in  strong 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


239 


ginger  tea  (1  oz.  ginger  to  1 qt.  water)  for  15  minutes. 
Drain,  put  into  a 30°  sirup  made  by  using  1 pt.  strained 
ginger  tea  with  a qt.  water  and  1|  lbs.  of  sugar.  Cook 
until  tender  and  transparent  (about  1|  hours).  After 
boiling  a half  hour  add  half  a lemon  sliced  thin.  Place 
in  shallow  pans  to  cool,  having  the  rind  well  covered 
with  sirup.  When  cool  arrange  pieces  attractively 
in  jars,  cover  to  overflowing  with  sirup.  Cap,  clamp, 
and  process. 

Uniform  products  can  be  more  easily  obtained  by 
using  the  saccharometer  to  test  the  density  of  the  sirup. 
The  packing  sirup  for  preserved  and  gingered  water- 
melon rind  and  figs  should  be  of  55°  density.  Balling 
saccharometer. 

Cherry  Preserves.  4 lbs.  cherries;  3 lbs.  sugar;  1 c. 
cherry  juice.  Make  a sirup  of  the  sugar  and  fruit  juice, 
cool,  add  seeded  cherries,  and  cook  rapidly  until  fruit 
is  clear  and  sirup  is  of  the  proper  consistency.  If  a 
thermometer  is  used,  finish  cherry  preserves  at  106° 
to  108°  C.  or  223°  to  226°  F.  Cool,  pack  into  jars, 
and  process  as  for  other  preserves. 

Jelly  Making 

A good  jelly  should  be  bright,  of  good  color,  and  clear. 
When  removed  from  the  glass,  it  should  retain  the  shape 
of  the  mold.  The  jelly  can  be  cut  with  a distinct 
cleavage,  retaining  the  angles  where  cut.  It  should 
sparkle  and  be  tender  enough  to  quiver  without 
breaking. 

Fruit  for  Jelly  Making.  The  juice  from  certain 
fruits,  such  as  grape,  apple,  crab-apple,  orange,  kum- 
quat,  and  currant  is  better  suited  for  making  a natural 
fruit  jelly  than  juices  from  other  fruits.  The  juices 


240 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


from  these  fruits  contain  the  properties  necessary  for 
jelly  making.  The  best  fruits  for  jelly  making  contain 
pectin  and  acid.  Pectin,  the  fundamental  jelly- 
making substance,  does  not  exist  in  some  fruits  in 
sufficient  amount  to  make  jelly  without  the  addition 
of  pectin  from  some  other  source.  The  peach,  straw- 
berry, and  cherry  are  examples  of  fruits  which  contain 
acid  but  are  lacking  in  pectin.  Pear,  guava,  and  quince 
contain  pectin  but  are  deficient  in  acid.  If  the  missing 
property  be  added  to  each  of  these  fruits,  a jelly  with 
the  color  and  flavor  of  the  fruit  selected  can  be  made. 

Extracting  the  Juice.  Wash  such  fruit  as  berries, 
grapes,  and  currants  in  running  water  and  add  1 cup 
of  water  for  each  pound  of  fruit.  For  apples,  quinces, 
guavas,  and  such  hard  fruits,  wash,  slice,  and  add 
3 c.  water  to  each  pound  of  fruit.  The  fruit  should  be 
cooked  until  tender,  a small  quantity  of  water  being 
added  to  help  extract  the  juice.  The  fruit  juice  will 
flow  more  freely  when  heated  than  when  cold,  and 
the  cooking  develops  the  pectin.  As  soon  as  the  fruit  is 
tender  the  liquid  should  be  squeezed  through  a cheese- 
cloth and  then,  be  allowed  to  drip,  without  pressure, 
through  a flannel  jelly  bag.  Over-cooking  of  the 
fruit  is  apt  to  result  in  a cloudy  jelly.  After  cooling 
the  juice  to  room  temperature,  test  it  to  determine 
the  amount  of  pectin  present.  This  test  gives  some 
idea  of  the  proper  proportion  of  sugar  to  juice.  Add 
1 tbsp.  95  per  cent  grain  alcohol  to  an  equal  volume  of 
cooled  fruit  juice  and  shake  gently.  The  effect  of  the 
alcohol  is  to  bring  together  the  pectin  in  a jelly-like 
mass.  If  a large  quantity  of  pectin  is  present  it  will 
appear  in  one  mass  or  clot  when  poured  from  the  glass. 
This  indicates  that  equal  quantities  of  sugar  and  juice 
may  be  used.  If  the  pectin  does  not  slip  from  the  glass 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FHUITS,  ETC. 


241 


in  one  mass,  less  sugar  will  be  required.  A fair  propor- 
tion is  I c.  of  sugar  to  1 c.  of  juice.  If  the  pectin  is 
thin  and  much  separated,  | c.  of  sugar  allowed  for 
each  cup  of  juice  will  be  sufficient. 

Quantity  of  Juice  to  Cook.  The  quantity  of  juice 
to  be  cooked  at  one  time  will  depend  upon  the  size 
of  the  vessel  and  the  methods  of  heating  available. 
The  capacity  of  the  vessel  used  should  be  four  times 
as  great  as  the  volume  of  juice  to  be  cooked.  If  the 
attempt  is  made  to  cook  a large  quantity  of  juice  at 
one  time  over  a slow  flame,  there  will  be  a loss  of  color 
and  a decrease  in  the  yield,  partly  due  to  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  pectin. 

When  to  Add  the  Sugar.  When  the  proportion  of 
sugar  to  juice  has  been  determined,  measure  the  fruit 
juice  and  place  over  the  Are  to  cook.  When  the  juice 
begins  to  boil,  add  the  sugar  immediately  and  stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  By  adding  the  sugar  when 
the  juice  begins  to  boil,  more  time  is  given  for  the 
inversion  of  the  sugar  by  the  acids  of  the  fruit  and  there 
is  less  danger  of  crystallization. 

Cooking  the  Jelly.  After  the  sugar  has  dissolved, 
the  cooking  should  be  as  rapid  as  possible.  Finished 
jelly  can  be  obtained  more  quickly  by  rapid  cooking. 
Long  cooking  will  tend  to  darken  the  product  and  de-  ‘ 
stroy  the  pectin,  which  will  cause  the  finished  jelly 
to  be  less  firm. 

Testing  for  the  Finished  Jelly.  A thermometer  can 
be  used  to  great  advantage  to  show  when  the  jellying 
point  is  almost  reached.  No  exact  temperature  can 
be  given,  because  the  jellying  point  differs  with  dif- 
ferent fruits,  with  the  quantity  of  sugar  used,  and  with 
the  same  fruits  at  different  seasons.  In  using  a 
thermometer  for  cooking  apple  jelly  it  has  been  noted 


242 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


that  the  temperature  is  seldom  less  than  105®  C. 
or  221®  F.  or  more  than  106®  C.  or  223®  F.  While  the 
temperature  for  guava  jelly  is  approximately  108®  C. 
or  226®  F.,  a temperature  less  than  this  will  give  a 
sirupy  product.  With  grape  and  currant  jelly,  between 
106®  C.  and  107®  C.  or  223®  F.  and  224®  F.  will  give 
the  best  results. 

Since  no  definite  temperature  can  be  given  for  the 
finished  jelly,  the  most  convenient  means  of  determin- 
ing when  it  is  finished  is  to  test  it  with  a spoon  or  paddle. 
Dip  a spoon  or  wooden  paddle  in  the  boiling  mass. 
Remove  and  cool  by  moving  it  back  and  forth  for  a 
few  seconds  and  then  allow  the  jelly  to  drop  from  it. 
As  long  as  there  is  sirup  present  it  will  run  or  drop 
from  the  spoon.  When  the  jellying  point  is  reached, 
it  will  break  from  the  spoon  in  flakes  or  sheets.  When 
this  jelly  stage  is  reached,  remove  from  the  fire  imme- 
diately and  skim.  Skimming  at  this  point  saves  waste. 

Filling  Glasses.  After  skimming  the  jelly,  pour  at 
once  into  hot  sterilized  glasses  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

Cooling  and  Sealing.  Cool  as  rapidly  as  possible, 
avoiding  dust  which  will  give  contamination  with  mold. 
When  the  jelly  is  cold,  cover  it  with  melted  paraffin. 
By  running  a pointed  stick  around  the  edge  of  the  glass 
while  the  paraffin  is  still  hot,  a better  seal  can  be 
obtained. 

Storing.  Jelly  should  be  stored  in  a cool,  dark,  dry 
place.  If  jelly  is  stored  for  a long  period  of  time,  it 
will  deteriorate  in  texture,  color,  and  flavor. 

Mistakes  to  Avoid.  Soft  Jelly.  Jellies  sometimes  are 
sirupy  because  more  sugar  has  been  used  than  the 
fruit  juices  require  or  because  boiling  after  the  addition 
of  sugar  was  not  continued  long  enough  to  drive  off 
excessive  water. 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


243 


Tough  Jelly.  Jelly  is  tough  or  stringy  because  too 
small  an  amount  of  sugar  was  used  for  the  quantity 
of  fruit  juice  taken  or  because  the  boiling  was  con- 
tinued after  the  jellying  point  had  been  reached. 

Crystals  in  Jelly.  Crystals  appear  throughout  the 
jelly  because  of  an  excess  of  sugar.  When  sugar  is 
boiled  with  an  acid  for  a sufficient  length  of  time, 
it  is  changed  into  a form  which  does  not  crystallize. 
Crystals  are  found  in  jelly  sometimes  because  the  juice 
is  boiled  to  too  great  a concentration  before  the  addi- 
tion of  sugar;  or  in  boiling,  the  sirup  spatters  on  the  side 
of  the  pan  and  dries,  and  in  pouring  the  finished  product, 
these  crystals  are  carried  into  the  glasses  of  jelly 
and  in  that  way  the  jelly  becomes  seeded  with  crystals. 

Cloudy  Jellies.  This  may  be  due  to  having  cooked 
the  fruit  too  long  before  straining  off  the  juice  or  to  not 
having  used  sufficient  care  in  straining  the  juice. 
Sometimes  it  is  noticed  in  apple  and  crab-apple  jelly 
that  although  it  is  clear  when  first  made,  the  jelly 
becomes  cloudy  after  a time.  In  these  cases  it  usually 
is  due  to  the  use  of  partly  green  fruit,  the  starch  in 
this  fruit  probably  causing  the  cloudy  appearance. 

Apple  Pectin. 

1 pound  apple  pulp  (or  skins  and  cores). ^ 

Juice  of  1 lemon. 

4 pounds  water. 

Boil  for  I to  f hour,  press  the  juice  through  a cloth 
bag,  then  allow  this  juice  to  drain  without  pressure 
through  a heavy  fiannel  or  haircloth  jelly  bag.  This 
juice  when  cold  should  be  tested  with  alcohol  to  deter- 
mine the  proportion  of  sugar  to  add  to  a volume  of 
juice.  Pectin  can  be  bottled,  processed  for  15  minutes 


1 Only  sound  fruit  should  be  used,  not  decomposed  or  worm-eaten  fruit. 


244 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


in  a water  bath  at  boiling,  and  kept  until  needed 
jelly  making. 

Orange  Pectin.  Cut  or  scrape  the  yellow  rind  from 
the  peel  of  the  orange,  the  white  portion  remaining 
being  passed  through  the  food  chopper  and  weighed. 
For  each  pound  of  this  prepared  peel  add  2 lbs.  of  water 
and  4 tbsp.  of  lemon  juice,  mix  thoroughly,  and  allow 
to  stand  15  minutes.  Then  add  2 lbs.  water,  boil  10 
minutes,  let  stand  overnight.  Next  morning  boil 

10  minutes,  allow  to  cool,  press  to  remove  juice,  and 
then  drain  juice  through  a flannel  bag.  If  not  desired 
for  immediate  use,  bottle  and  process  as  for  apple 
pectin. 

Mint  and  Orange  {or  Apple)  Pectin  Jelly. 

1 pint  concentrated  orange  (or  apple)  pectin  juice. 

1 lb.  sugar. 

2 drops  oil  peppermint. 

2 drops  green  vegetable  coloring. 

Bring  the  orange  or  apple  pectin  juice  to  boiling, 
add  sugar,  and  boil  rapidly  until  the  jellying  point  is 
reached.  At  this  point  2 drops  of  green  vegetable 
coloring  matter  is  added,  together  with  2 drops  of 

011  of  peppermint.  Stir  thoroughly,  and  pour  while 
hot  into  clean,  sterilized  jelly  glasses.  After  a few 
moments  the  scum  which  rises  to  the  top  may  be  re- 
moved from  the  jelly  easily  with  a spoon.  Complete 
jelly  as  previously  directed. 

Strawberry  and  Orange  {or  Apple)  Pectin  Jelly. 

J pint  concentrated  orange  (or  apple)  pectin. 

5 lb.  sugar. 

5 pint  strawberry  juice. 

Mix  orange  (or  apple)  pectin  juice  and  the  straw- 
berry juice,  bring  to  a boil,  and  add  sugar.  Con- 


HOME  CANNING  OF  FRUITS,  ETC. 


245 


tinue  boiling  until  the  jellying  point  is  reached.  Pour 
immediately  into  hot  sterilized  jelly  glasses  and  skim. 
When  cold,  pour  hot  paraffin  over  the  jelly. 

Pineapple  and  Orange  (or  Apple)  Pectin  Jelly.  Add 
1 pt.  orange  (or  apple)  pectin  juice  to  1 pt.  pineapple 
juice  which  has  been  boiled  for  10  minutes,  add  1 lb. 
sugar,  and  continue  boiling  until  the  jellying  point  is 
reached.  Pour  immediately  into  hot  sterilized  jelly 
glasses  and  skim.  When  cold,  pour  hot  paraffin  over 
the  jelly. 

Apple  Jelly. 

1 \ Boil  together  for  J to  J hour  and  strain. 

2 lbs.  water  J 


Take  one  pint  strained  juice.  Determine  amount  of 
sugar  to  be  added  by  the  use  of  the  alcohol  test  pre- 
viously given.  Bring  the  juice  to  a boil,  add  the  sugar 
and  cook  as  rapidly  as  possible  until  the  jelly  point  is 
reached.  Remove  from  the  fire,  skim,  pour  into  hot 
sterilized  glasses,  and  when  cold  cover  with  melted 
paraffin. 

Grape  Jelly. 


4 lbs.  grapes 
1 lb.  water 


Crush  and  boil  together  for  20  minutes,  press 
through  a jelly  bag,  and  allow  to  drain 
through  a flannel  bag. 


Test  the  strained  juice  with  alcohol  to  determine 
the  proportion  of  sugar  to  use.  Bring  the  grape 
juice  to  boiling,  add  sugar,  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved.  Continue  the  boiling  until  the  jelly  point 
is  reached.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  skim.  Pour 
into  hot  sterilized  glasses,  seal,  and  store. 

Blackberry  Jelly. 

4 lbs.  blackberries. 

1 lb.  water. 


246 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Select  3 lbs.  of  ripe  fruit  and  I lb.  of  underripe  fruit, 
wash  by  running  water  over  them,  cap,  crush,  and  add 
1 pt.  of  water  and  boil  15  minutes.  Press  the  pulp, 
and  strain  the  juice  through  a flannel  bag.  Determine 
the  correct  amount  of  sugar  to  be  added  by  the  use  of 
the  alcohol  test.  Bring  the  juice  to  a boil,  add  sugar, 
and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Continue  the 
boiling  until  the  jelly  point  is  reached.  Remove  from 
the  Are  and  skim.  Pour  into  hot  sterilized  glasses, 
seal,  and  store. 

Contributions  to  the  information  on  jelly  making 
have  been  made  by  Dr.  M.  N.  Straughn,  of  the  Carbo- 
hydrate Laboratory,  Bureau  of  Chemistry. 


The  instructions  given  in  this  bulletin  were  prepared 
mainly  with  a view  to  canning  for  home  use.  If  prod- 
ucts are  packed  for  sale,  the  State  Food  Commissioner 
should  be  consulted  as  to  the  State  regulations  regard- 
ing such  products,  and  if  they  are  packed  for  inter- 
state shipment  additional  information  concerning  the 
requirements  under  the  Federal  Food  and  Drugs  Act 
should  be  secured  from  the  Bureau  of  Chemistry  of 
this  Department. 


U.  S.  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FARMERS’  BULLETIN  NO.  839 


HOME  CANNING  BY  THE  ONE-PERIOD  COLD- 
PACK  METHOD! 

Taught  to  Canning  Club  Members  in  the  Northern  and 

Western  States 

O.  H.  BENSON 

Agriculturist  in  Charge  of  Boys’  and  Girls’  Extension 
Work  in  the  Northern  and  Western  States 


Contribution  from  the  States  Relations  Service 
A.  C.  TR  UE,  Director 


INTRODUCTION 

Ip  pood  products  are  left  in  their  natural  state, 
most  of  them  spoil  in  a few  hours  or  a few  days  owing 
to  the  growth  on  their  surface  or  in  their  tissues  of 
bacteria,  molds,  or  other  organisms  of  decay.  If  such 
organisms  usually  present  in  food  can  be  killed  and 
the  entrance  of  other  organisms  prevented,  the  food 
can  be  kept  in  good  condition  practically  indefinitely. 

1 A few  products,  such  as  soup  stock  and  food  combinations,  owing  to  their 
physical  condition,  are  packed  hot.  The  general  principles  involved,  however, 
are  the  same  in  all  other  regards. 


247 


248 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


It  is  this  destruction  of  organisms  and  protection  of  the 
food  from  contamination  that  is  accomplished  by  can- 
ning— the  preparation  and  treatment  before  packing 
and  process  of  placing  food  products  in  air-tight  con- 
tainers and  steriUzing  them. 

Most  home  makers  are  familiar  with  some  form  of 
canning.  Much  of  the  canning  practiced  in  homes, 
however,  has  been  restricted  to  the  putting  up  of 
fruits.  The  canning  of  vegetables  and  of  meats  has 
been  considered  until  recently,  by  all  but  a relatively 
few  persons,  to  be  too  complicated  to  be  done  satis- 
factorily in  the  home.  By  the  method  adopted  for 
use  in  the  home  canning-club  work  of  the  United 
States  Department  of  Agriculture  in  the  Northern 
and  Western  States,  however,  it  has  been  found  to  be 
a relatively  simple  matter  to  can  practically  any  food 
product  in  the  home,  with  ordinary  kitchen  equip- 
ment and  with  the  expenditure  of  comparatively  httle 
labor.  This  method  of  canning  is  described  in  the 
following  pages  and  is  intended  primarily  for  use  in  the 
Northern  and  Western  States.  By  its  use  the  time 
required  for  the  treatment  of  food  to  prepare  it  for 
keeping  is  reduced  to  a minimum. 

Preparations  for  Canning 

The  first  steps  in  the  canning  method  described  in 
this  bulletin,  as  in  all  canning,  consist  in  the  prepara- 
tion and  cleaning  of  containers  and  in  the  preparation 
of  the  products  to  be  canned  by  washing,  paring,  trim- 
ming, and  cutting  into  pieces  where  division  is  neces- 
sary. 

Those  engaged  in  the  work  should  start  with  clean 
hands,  clean  utensils,  clean,  sound,  fresh  products. 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


249 


and  pure,  clean,  soft  water.  No  vegetables  or  fruits 
which  are  withered  or  unsound  should  be  canned.  If 
possible,  only  fruits  and  vegetables  picked  the  day 
of  canning  should  be  used.  Peas  and  corn,  which  lose 
their  flavor  rapidly,  should  be  canned,  in  fact,  within 
5 hours  if  a choice  product  is  desired. 

Before  the  preparation  of  the  products  is  begun 
the  containers  should  be  washed.  If  glass  or  crockery 
jars  are  used,  they  should  be  placed  in  a vessel  of  cold 
water  over  a fire  to  heat.  They  will  then  be  hot  and 
ready  for  use  when  the  products  have  been  prepared 
for  packing. 

All  grit  and  dirt  should  be  washed  carefully  from  the 
materials  to  be  used.  All  products  should  be  graded 
especially  for  ripeness.  Large  fruits  and  vegetables 
should  be  pared  if  necessary,  and  small  fruits,  berries, 
and  greens  picked  over  carefully. 

Steps  in  Canning 

After  the  materials  have  been  cleaned  and  put 
into  the  shape  in  which  they  are  to  be  canned,  and  con- 
tainers have  been  cleaned  and  tested,  the  canning  pro- 
cedure for  most  products  by  the  one-period  cold-pack 
method  consists  of  five  steps — scalding  or  blanching, 
cold-dipping,  packing,  processing,  and  sealing.  In 
canning  berries  and  all  soft  fruits  the  blanching  is 
dispensed  with. 

The  products  to  be  canned  are  blanched  or  scalded 
usually  by  being  placed,  in  a cheese-cloth  bag  or  dipping 
basket,  into  boiling  water  and  allowed  to  remain  there 
from  1 to  15  minutes,  depending  on  the  kind  of  prod- 
uct. In  the  case  of  greens  and  green  vegetables,  how- 
ever, the  scalding  is  accomplished  most  satisfactorily 


250 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


in  steam,  as  volatile  oils  and  other  substances  remain  in 
the  food  under  this  treatment.  Such  products  may  be 
put  into  a colander,  set  over  a vessel  of  boiling  water 
and  covered  as  tightly  as  possible.  Better  results  may 
be  obtained,  however,  by  the  use  of  a steam  cooker. 

As  soon  as  the  product  is  removed  from  the  boiling 
water  or  steam,  it  should  be  dipped  into  cold,  clean 
water  and  immediately  removed  and  drained  for  a 
few  moments.  The  temperature  of  the  water  used  for 
cold  dipping  should  be  as  low  as  possible. 

The  product  should  be  packed  carefully  into  hot 
jars  as  soon  as  removed.  In  the  case  of  fruits,  boiling 
hot  sirup  or  hot  water  is  then  added.  In  the  case  of 
vegetables,  hot  water  usually  is  used  and  salt  is  added 
for  seasoning.  The  scalded  rubbers  and  tops  of  jars 
are  put  into  place,  the  tops  of  cans  sealed,  and  the 
containers  are  placed  in  a hot-water  bath,  pressure 
cooker,  or  other  similar  device  for  processing. 

Processing  is  the  final  application  of  heat  to  sterilize 
the  product  and  is  continued  for  a period  determined 
by  the  character  of  the  product  and  the  kind  of  appara- 
tus used  (see  time  schedule  pp.  283-286).  The  con- 
tainers should  be  placed  in  the  processing  vessel  as 
soon  as  they  are  filled. 

Immediately  after  the  termination  of  the  processing 
period,  while  the  products  are  still  hot,  glass  and  similar 
containers  must  be  sealed. 

Jars  should  then  be  placed  in  a tray  upside  down  to 
cool,  and  closely  examined  for  leaks.  If  leakage  occurs, 
the  covers  should  be  tightened  imtil  they  are  com- 
pletely closed. 

Tin  cans  may  be  cooled  by  plunging  them  in  cold 
water.  When  the  packed  containers  are  thus  cooled, 
they  should  be  stored  in  a cool,  dry  place  not  exposed 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


251 


to  freezing  temperature.  Most  products  packed  in 
glass  jars  will  bleach  or  darken  if  exposed  to  light. 
It  is  well,  therefore,  to  wrap  jars  in  paper.  From  time 
to  time,  especially  during  very  hot  weather,  both 
glass  jars  and  tin  cans  should  be  examined  to  make 
certain  that  there  are  no  leaks,  swelhngs,  or  other 
signs  of  fermentation. 

Equipment  Required 

Whatever  type  of  apparatus  is  used  for  processing 
or  sterilizing,  a number  of  utensils  are  needed  for 
properly  handling  the  products  during  the  proceeding 
steps.  These  include  five  or  six  acid-proof  pans  with 
covers  for  use  in  handling  and  blanching  acid  fruits, 
two  tablespoons,  one  set  of  measuring  spoons,  one 
wire  basket  or  several  yards  of  cheese-cloth  for  use  in 
blanching,  six  wiping  cloths,  two  hand  towels,  one 
duplex  fork  for  hfting  hot  jars,  several  sharp  paring 
knives,  a generous  supply  of  clean  hot  and  cold  water, 
a garbage  pail  for  scraps,  and  a good  stove  or  other 
heating  device. 

For  processing,  home  canners  may  choose  from  among 
several  types  of  apparatus,  according  to  their  needs 
and  means.  The  outfits  in  common  use  are  of  five 
general  types: 

1.  Homemade  Outfits 

Homemade  outfits  are  constructed  of  such  utensils 
as  wash  boilers,  tin  pails,  milk  cans,  metal  washtubs, 
and  lard  pails.  Such  canners  should  have  well-fitting 
covers  and  false  bottoms  or  lifting  platforms  of  metal 
or  wood.  The  latter  are  to  support  jars  or  cans  to 
prevent  direct  contact  with  heat  and  also  to  permit  a 
free  circulation  of  water  and  steam  around  and  under 
the  containers. 


252 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


2.  Hot-water-bath  Commercial  Outfits 

Hot-water-bath  commercial  outfits  are  constructed 
usually  for  outdoor  work,  and  have  a sterilizing  vat, 
lifting  trays,  fire  box,  and  smoke  pipe,  combined  in 
one  piece.  They  are  light  and  convenient,  and  are 
planned  as  portable  outfits.  The  products  should 
be  sterilized  in  such  outfits  in  completely  sealed  tin 
cans  or  partially  sealed  glass  jars  immersed  in  boiling 
water.  The  only  advantage  of  these  outfits  over  the 
homemade  devices  is  that  they  are  more  convenient 
and  have  all  the  necessary  equipment  for  operation. 
Both  the  homemade  and  hot-water  commercial  canners 
are  classed  as  hot-water-bath  outfits. 

3.  Water-seal  Outfits 

Water-seal  outfits  consist  of  a double- walled  bath 
(o)  and  cover  (6)  which  projects  down  into  the  water 
between  the  outer  and  inner  walls,  thus  making  three 
tin  or  galvanized  metal  walls,  and  two  water  jackets 
between  the  sterilizing  vat  and  outer  surface  of  the 
canner. . A higher  temperature  may  be  maintained 
more  uniformly  with  such  an  outfit  than  with  the  hot- 
water-bath  outfits,  since  the  free  escape  of  steam  is 
prevented  and  a slight  steam  pressure  is  maintained. 
The  water-seal  outfit  may  prove  more  economical  of 
heat,  especially  in  the  canning  of  vegetables  and  meats, 
where  high  temperatures  are  necessary  for  complete 
sterilization. 

4.  Steam-pressure  Outfits 

Steam-pressure  outfits  are  made  to  carry  from  5 to  30 
pounds  of  steam  pressure,  and  are  equipped  with  a 
steam-tight  sterilizer,  lifting  crate,  thermometer  or 
pressure  gauge,  safety  valve,  and  steam  pet  cock.  The 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


253 


pressure  canner  may  be  regulated  easily  so  as  to  main- 
tain different  temperatures.  It  is  thus  adaptable  for 
use  in  sterilizing  various  vegetables  and  food  products. 

6.  Aluminum  Pressure  Cookers 

Aluminum  pressure  cookers  are  combination  out- 
fits for  general  cooking  purposes  which  are  used  also 
for  home  canning  of  fruits,  vegetables,  and  meats. 
They  may  be  used  for  canning  during  the  canning  sea- 
son and  as  cookers  during  the  entire  year.  As  a type, 
these  pressure  cookers  are  light  in  construction  and 
economical  of  heat.  They  are  made  entirely  of  alumi- 
num and  will  carry  as  high  as  30  pounds  steam  pressure. 
They  are  equipped  with  a steam-pressure  gauge,  safety 
valve,  and  pet  cock,  as  are  steam-pressure  outfits. 

Operation  of  Hot-water  Bath  and  Water-seal  Outfits 

Difficulties  in  the  operation  of  hot-water  bath  canning 
outfits  may  be  avoided  if  the  following  rules  are 
observed : 

(1)  Support  the  jars  on  a perforated  platform  suf- 

ficiently to  permit  the  circulation  of  water 

under  and  around  the  jars. 

(2)  Have  the  water  cover  the  tops  of  the  jars  by 

at  least  1 inch. 

(3)  Count  time  as  soon  as  the  water  begins  to  boil 

vigorously. 

(4)  Remove  the  jars  from  the  water  and  tighten 

the  covers  as  soon  as  the  time  is  up. 

Liquid  may  be  lost  from  the  jars  during  the  steriliz- 
ing period  if  the  water  in  the  canner  does  not  cover 
the  tops  of  the  jars,  if  the  covers  to  the  jars  are  adjusted 
too  loosely,  or  if  the  platform  in  the  bottom  of  the 


254 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


canner  does  not  permit  the  water  to  circulate  under- 
neath. Towels,  excelsior,  newspapers,  hay,  and  the 
hke  are  unsatisfactory  for  use  in  the  bottoms  of  hot- 
water-bath  outfis.  Use  a slat  or  perforated  platform. 

Operation  of  Steam-pressure  Canners 

To  secure  the  best  results  in  the  operation  of  steam- 
pressure  canners,  the  following  precautions  should  be 
observed : 

(1)  Place  each  jar  in  hot  water  or  in  the  canner  as 

soon  as  packed. 

(2)  Have  the  water  come  to  the  platform,  but  not 

above  it;  add  hot  water  occasionally  to  pre- 
vent its  boiling  dry. 

(3)  Have  the  canner  absolutely  steam-tight. 

(4)  When  the  canner  has  been  filled,  fasten  the 

opposite  clamps  moderately  tight;  then  tighten 
each  pair  of  clamps  fully. 

(5)  Allow  the  pet  cock  to  remain  open  until  live 

steam  escapes  from  it. 

(6)  Close  the  pet  cock  completely. 

(7)  Force  the  pressure  to  the  required  point  before 

counting  time. 

(8)  Maintain  a uniform  pressure  during  the  sterilizing 

period.  This  may  be  done  by  turning  down 
gas  or  oil  flame  or  moving  canner  off  the 
stove  partially. 

(9)  Allow  the  canner  to  cool  until  the  steam  gauge 

registers  zero  before  opening  the  pet  cock. 

(10)  Remove  the  jars  from  the  canner  and  tighten 

the  lids  as  soon  as  the  canner  is  opened. 

Liquid  will  be  lost  from  jars  during  the  sterilizing 
period  if  steam  leaks  at  the  joint  and  around  the  fit- 
tings; it  the  pressure  is  allowed  to  fluctuate,  as  by 


ONE-PERIOD,^  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


255 


running  up  to  12  pounds,  down  to  7 pounds,  and  back 
to  10  pounds;  if  steam  is  allowed  to  blow  from  the 
pet  cock  during  or  at  the  close  of  the  sterilizing  period; 
if  a vacuum  forms  in  the  canner;  or  if  the  wire  bails 
on  the  glass-top  jars  are  so  loose  that  they  will  not  go 
in  with  a snap. 

Containers 

The  method  of  canning  here  described  does  not  re- 
quire the  use  of  a particular  type  of  container.  Glass 
jars,  crockery  jars  (with  air-tight  tops)  or  tin  cans 
of  practically  any  type  may  be  used  if  they  are  care- 
fully cleaned  and  properly  handled  and  sealed.  When 
products  are  canned  for  use  in  the  home,  glass  jars  are 
perhaps  preferable  to  tin  cans.  Jars  may  be  sealed 
without  the  use  of  special  apparatus  and  may  be 
used  over  and  over  again  if  properly  taken  care  of  and 
if  new  rubbers  are  used  each  time.  Tin  cans,  on  the 
other  hand,  must  be  thrown  away  after  being  opened. 

Tin  cans,  however,  have  certain  advantages.  They 
exclude  light  and  so  prevent  bleaching,  and  they 
may  be  handled,  packed,  and  transported  more 
safely  then  glass  jars.  When  products  are  canned 
for  sale,  tin  cans  are  preferable  except  for  local  use  in 
some  sections  and  for  fancy  trade. 

The  use  of  specific  types  of  containers  and  the  neces- 
sary steps  to  be  taken  in  testing,  preparing,  sealing, 
cooling,  and  storing  them  are  discussed  in  an  appendix 
to  this  bulletin. 

Ntxmber  of  Cans  or  Jars  per  Bushel  of  Fruit  or 

Vegetables 

The  following  table  shows  the  approximate  number 
of  cans  or  jars  that  can  be  filled  per  bushel  of  various 
fruits  and  vegetables: 


256 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


CANS  OR  JARS  PER  BUSHEL  OF  VARIOUS  FRUITS 
AND  VEGETABLES 


Product 
(1  Bushel). 

No.  2 
Cans 
(Pint 
Jars) . 

No.  3 
Cans 
(Quart 
Jars). 

Product 
(1  Bushel). 

No.  2 
Cans 
(Pint 
Jars). 

No.  3 
Cans 
(Quart 
Jars). 

Windfall  apples.  . . 

30 

20 

Tomatoes 

22 

15 

Standard  peaches. . 

25 

18 

Shelled  lima  beans. 

50 

30 

Pears 

45 

30 

String  beans 

30 

20 

Plums 

45 

30 

Sweet  corn 

45 

25 

Blackberries 

50 

30 

Shelled  peas 

16 

10 

Windfall  oranges: 

Sweet  potatoes.  . . 

30 

20 

Sliced 

22 

15 

Whole 

35 

22 

Legal  Restrictions  upon  the  Sale  of^Canned  Products 

If  home-canned  products  are  to  be  sold,  certain 
legal  restrictions  which  are  placed  upon  the  sale  of 
canned  goods  must  be  observed.  If  they  are  to  be  sold 
wholly  within  the  State,  information  concerning  the 
State  food  laws  should  be  obtained  by  writing  to  the 
State  Food  Commissioners  or  the  State  Board  of  Health. 
If  the  products  are  to  be  shipped  in  interstate  commerce, 
information  should  also  be  obtained  concerning  Fed- 
eral laws  and  regulations  by  writing  to  the  Bureau  of 
Chemistry,  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture, 
Washington,  D.  C.  Products  made  and  sold  wholly 
within  the  District  of  Columbia  or  the  Territories  are 
also  subject  to  the  Federal  Food  and  Drugs  Act. 

Altitude  Changes  and  Home  Canning 

The  directions  given  in  this  bulletin  for  canning  all 
kinds  of  vegetables,  fruits,  soups,  meats,  and  combina- 
tions are  based  upon  an  altitude  from  sea  level  to  1,000 
feet  and  upon  the  use  of  the  quart  jar  or  container.  If 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


257 


using  smaller  jars,  reduce  the  time  a trifle;  if  using 
larger  jars,  increase  the  time. 

For  altitudes  above  1,000  feet  the  time  of  steriliza- 
tion should  be  increased  at  the  rate  of  10  per  cent  for 
each  500  feet. 

Brines 

Brines  of  various  strengths  are  used  in  canning  some 
vegetables.  The  table  following  shows  the  propor- 
tions of  salt  and  water  required  to  make  brines  of 
given  percentage  strengths. 


TABLE  FOR  MAKING  BRINES 


Strength 

of 

Brine. 

Salt 

Neces- 

sary. 

Water  Necessary. 

Strength 

of 

Brine. 

Salt 

Neces- 

sary. 

Water  Necessary. 

% 

Lb. 

Gal. 

Qt. 

Pt. 

% 

Lb. 

Gal. 

Qt. 

Pt.  ^ 

1 

1 

12 

1 

1 

10 

10 

11 

1 

2 

2 

12 

1 

.... 

12 

12 

11 

.... 

3 

3 

12 

• • • . 

1 

15 

15 

10 

2 

1 

6 

6 

11 

3 

.... 

18 

18 

10 

1 

« • • • 

8 

8 

11 

2 

— 

24 

24 

9 

2 

— 

Seasoning 

In  seasoning  foods[it  should  be  kept  in  mind  that  most 
vegetables  as  well  as  meats  are  injured  in  flavor  and 
quality  by  an  excessive  use  of  salt  for  seasoning  in  the 
canning  process.  A little  salt  is  very  palatable,  and 
its  use  should  be  encouraged,  but  it  is  better  to  add  no 
salt  in  canning  than  to  use  too  much.  Salt  can  be 
added  to  suit  the  taste  when  canned  goods  are  served. 

Sirups 

Sirups  are  employed  usually  in  canning  fruits.  A 
formula  much  used  in  some  sections  for  sirup  is  3 quarts 


258 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


of  sugar  to  2 quarts  of  water,  boiled  to  a thin,  medium- 
thin,  medium-thick,  or  thick  sirup.  The  formula 
sometimes  called  the  Eastern  formula  is  3 quarts  of 
water  to  2 quarts  of  sugar,  boiled  to  a thin,  medium- 
thin,  medium-thick,  or  thick  sirup.  The  first  formula 
may  be  used  in  canning  all  kinds  of  fruits  delicate 
in  flavor  and  texture  and  when  sugar  is  low  or  reason- 
able in  price.  When  sugar  is  high  in  price  and  the 
character  of  the  fruit  is  such  that  less  sugar  is  required, 
the  Eastern  formula  may  be  used. 

Sirups  of  the  approximate  densities  desired  may  be 
made  easily  without  regard  to  the  table  of  sirup  densi- 
ties already  given,  and  without  the  use  of  an  instru- 
ment for  determining  density  if  the  following  points 
are  kept  in  mind: 

Thin  sirup  is  sugar  and  water  boiled  sufiiciently  to 
dissolve  all  of  the  sugar,  but  is  not  sticky.  Such  sirup 
has  a density  of  from  12  to  20  per  cent. 

Medium-thin  sirup  is  that  which  has  begun  to  thicken 
and  becomes  sticky  when  cooled  on  the  finger 
tip  or  spoon  (density  of  from  20  to  40  per  cent). 

Medium-thick  sirup  is  that  which  has  thickened 
enough  to  roll  or  pile  up  over  the  edge  of  the 
spoon  when  it  is  poured  out  (density  of  from  40 
to  50  per  cent).  ^ 

Thick  sirup  is  that  which  has  become  so  thick  that 
it  is  difficult  to  pour  out  of  a spoon  or  container, 
but  is  not  sugared  (density  of  from  50  to  64  per 
cent). 

Thin  sirups  are  used  for  all  sweet  fruits  such  as  cher- 
ries, peaches,  apples,  etc.,  that  are  not  too  delicate 
in  texture  and  color.  Medium-thin  sirups  are  used 
in  the  canning  of  the  medium-sweet  fruits,  such  as 
blackberries,  currants,  dewberries,  huckleberries,  rasp- 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


259 


berries,  etc.  Medium-thick  sirups  are  used  in  the  can- 
ning of  all  sour  fruits,  such  as  gooseberries,  apricots, 
sour  apples,  etc.,  and  delicately  colored  fruits,  such  as 
strawberries  and  red  raspberries.  Thick  sirup  is  used 
in  preserving  and  making  all  kinds  of  sun-cooked  pre- 
serves. 

How  to  Determine  Simp  Density 

Unsatisfactory  results  frequently  follow  the  use  of 
sirups  which  are  not  of  the  density  best  suited  to  the 
particular  purpose  for  which  they  are  employed.  The 
following  table  gives  the  proportions  of  sugar  and  water 
required  to  prepare  sirup  of  the  desired  density. 
No  allowance  has  been  made  for  evaporation  during 
heating. 


PROPORTIONS  OF  SUGAR  AND  WATER  IN  SIRUP  OP 
DIFFERENT  DENSITY 


Desired 

Sirup 

Density. 

Sugar. 

Water. 

Desired 

Sirup 

Density. 

Sugar. 

Water. 

Per  Cent. 

Pounds. 

Quarts. 

Per  Cent. 

Pounds. 

Quarts. 

12 

u 

35 

7 

15 

3 

8| 

40 

2 

n 

18 

4^ 

10| 

50 

2 

1 

24 

6 

9^ 

60 

6 

2 

28 

7 

9 

64 

16 

4J 

Canning  Fruit  without  Sugar 
All  fruits  can  be  canned  successfully  for  future  use, 
for  jelly  making,  pie  filling,  salad  purposes,  etc.,  without 
the  use  of  sugar  by  simply  adding  hot  water  instead  of 
the  hot  sirups.  It  has  been  found  practicable  also  with 
certain  vegetables  to  substitute  sugar  for  salt  in  the 
canning  process,  and  then  add  other  seasoning  to  taste 
when  serving. 


260 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


In  canning  fruit  without  sugar,  can  the  product  the 
day  it  is  picked.  Cull,  stem,  seed,  and  clean  fruit  by 
placing  in  strainer  and  pouring  cold  water  over  it. 
Pack  the  product  carefully  in  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans 
until  full.  Use  tablespoon,  wooden  ladle,  or  table  knife 
for  packing  purposes.  Pour  boiling  hot  water  over 
the  product  in  the  hot  jar.  Place  rubbers  and  caps 
in  position,  not  tight.  If  using  tin  cans,  seal  completely. 
Place  product  in  the  sterilizer,  vat,  or  canner,  and  ster- 
ilize for  the  length  of  time  given  below  according  to 
the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Hot- water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 30 

Water  seal,  214® 20 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 12 

10  pounds  steam  pressure 10 


After  sterilizing  remove  the  filled  containers.  Seal 
jars;  invert  to  cool  and  test  the  joints.  Wrap  in  paper 
to  prevent  bleaching  and  store  in  a dry,  cool  place. 
If  tin  cans  are  used  it  will  be  found  advantageous  to 
plunge  them  into  cold  water  immediately  after  steriliza- 
tion to  cool  them  quickly. 

Canning  Directions 
Vegetables 

Tomatoes,  Scald  minutes  or  until  skins  loosen.  Cold 
dip.  Remove  stems  and  cores.  Pack  directly  into  cans  or 
hot  jars.  Press  down  with  tablespoon  (add  no  water).  Add 
level  teaspoonful  salt  per  quart.  Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars 
into  position,  not  tight.  Seal  tin  cans  completely.  Sterilize 
for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of 
outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 22 

Water  seal,  214® 18 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 15 

10  pounds  steam  pressure 10 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


261 


Sweet  Peppers.  Use  sweet  green  peppers.  Place  the  peppers 
in  the  oven  and  bake  them  until  the  skins  separate  from  the 
meat.  Remove  the  skins.  Pack  them  solid  in  hot  glass  jars 
or  tin  cans.  Add  water.  Add  1 level  teaspoonful  of  salt  per 
quart.  Put  the  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  position,  not  tight. 
Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given 
below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° ; 75 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  pounds  steam  pressure 40 


Remove  the  jars;  tighten  the  covers;  invert  the  jars  to  cool, 
and  test  the  joints.  Wrap  the  jars  to  prevent  bleaching. 

Pumpkin^  Squashy  Hominyy  and  Sauerkraut.  Prepare  and  cut 
into  convenient  sections.  Blanch  3 minutes.  Cold-dip;  pack 
closely  in  hot  jars  or  cans.  Fill  with  boiling  water.  Add  level 
teaspoonful  salt  per  quart.  Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars 
into  position,  not  tight.  Seal  tin  cans  completely.  Sterilize 
for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  out- 
fit used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 120 

Water  seal,  214° 90 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  pounds  steam  pressure 40 


Sweet  Corn.  Remove  husk  and  silk.  Blanch  5 minutes  on 
cob.  Cold-dip;  cut  corn  from  cob  and  pack  directly  in  hot 
jars  or  cans  (J  inch  of  top).  Fill  with  boiling  water.  Add 
level  teaspoonful  salt  per  quart.  Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars 
into  position,  not  tight.  Seal  tin  cans  completely.  Sterilize 
for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of 
outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 180 

Water  seal,  214° 120 

d pounds  steam  pressure 90 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 60 


Corn  seems  to  give  home  canners  more  trouble  than  do  most 
products;  but,  with  care  and  study,  corn  may  be  canned  as 


262 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


easily  as  any  other  product  grown  in  the  garden.  A little 
experience  in  selecting  the  ear  and  the  ability  to  recognize  corn 
that  is  just  between  the  milk  and  the  dough  stage  are  important. 
Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob  with  a sharp,  thin-bladed  knife,  and 
pack  it  at'  once  into  sterilized  jars.  Best  results  can  be  obtained 
when  one  person  cuts  the  corn  from  the  cob  and  one  person 
fills  the  containers.  If  it  is  necessary  for  one  person  to  work 
alone  he  should  cut  off  sufficient  corn  to  fill  one  jar,  pour  on 
boiling  water,  add  salt,  place  the  rubber  and  the  cap  in  posi- 
tion, and  put  the  jar  into  the  canner  or  hot  water  at  once. 
Corn  expands  a little  in  processing,  and  for  this  reason  jars 
should  not  be  filled  quite  full.  Corn  that  has  reached  the 
dough  stage  before  being  packed  will  have  a cheesy  appearance 
after  canning.  Corn  should  never  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the 
cold-dip  water,  and  large  quantities  should  not  be  dipped  at 
one  time  unless  sufficient  help  is  available  to  handle  the  pro- 
duct quickly.  Water-logged  or  soaked  corn  indicates  slow  and 
inefficient  packing. 

When  canning  sweet  corn  on  the  cob,  follow  same  directions 
but  pack  whole  ears  in  jars  instead  of  the  cut-off  corn. 

Home  Canning  of  Field  Corn,  This  product  is  commonly 
known  as  corn  club  breakfast  food,  or  4-H  brand  food  product. 
The  corn  should  be  selected  between  the  milk  and  the  dough 
stage.  Wide-mouthed  glass  jars  or  tin  cans  should  be  used  for 
canning  this  product.  Avoid  packing  container  too  full,  as  the 
product  swells  during  the  sterilization  period.  The  corn 
should  be  canned  the  same  day  it  is  picked  from  the  field,  if 
possible.  The  yellow  field  corn  makes  a yellow,  butter-like 
food  product  when  ground  and  canned.  Avoid  mixing  the 
white  and  the  yellow  or  Bloody  Butcher  corn  in  the  same  batch 
of  food  products.  Secure  a good  grade  of  food  chopper  for 
grating  the  corn.  Small  10-cent  hand  graters  can  be  used,  but 
work  with  these  is  too  slow  and  tedious. 

Blanch  the  corn  ears  in  boiling  hot  water  or  live  steam  for 
10  minutes.  Remove  and  dip  quickly  in  cold  water.  Cut 
the  corn  from  the  cob  with  a sharp,  thin-bladed  knife.  Feed 
the  corn  to  the  food  chopper  and  grind  to  a pulp.  Cook  this 
product  in  a kettle,  add  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  each 
quart,  and  a little  butter,  and  sweeten  a trifle  with  sugar.  Cook 
(stir  while  cooking)  until  the  product  has  assumed  a thickened 
or  paste-like  mass.  Then  pack  this  product  immediately  in 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


263 


tin  cans  or  hot  glass  jars  to  J inch  of  the  top.  Seal  jars  by 
placing  rubber  and  cap  in  position  and  seal  tin  cans  completely. 
Place  jars  and  cans  in  wash  boiler  or  sterilizer,  and  process  for 
the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit 
used: 

Minutes. 


Hot- water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 180 

Water  seal,  214° 120 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  or  15  pounds  steam  pressure 60 


After  this  product  has  been  sterilized  and  cooled  and  stored 
away,  it  will  form  a solid,  butter-like  mass,  which  when  removed 
whole  from  the  jars  or  pack  may  be  cut  in  convenient  slices  for 
toasting,  frying,  and  baking  purposes,  and  will  make  a delicious 
food  product,  palatable,  economical,  and  nourishing. 

Vegetables  such  as  Wax  Beans,  Stringless  Beans,  Okra,  Green 
Peppers,  Cabbage  and  Brussels  Sprouts.  String  or  hull.  Blanch 
in  live  steam  for  5 to  10  minutes.  Remove  and  dip  quickly 
in  cold  water.  Pack  in  hot  jars  or  tin  cans  and  add  boiling 
hot  water  until  jars  or  tin  cans  are  full.  Add  one  level  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  to  each  quart.  Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  posi- 
tion, not  tight.  Seal  tin  cans  completely.  Sterilize  for  the 
length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 120 

Water  seal,  214° 90 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  pounds  steam  pressure 40 


Lima  Beans,  Peas,  and  other  Vegetables  or  Combinations  of 
Them.  Blanch  in  live  steam  for  5 to  10  minutes.  Dip  quickly 
in  cold  water.  Pack  immediately  in  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans. 
Add  boiling  hot  water  to  fill  container.  Add  level  teaspoon- 
ful salt  per  quart.  Place  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  position, 
not  tight.  Seal  tin  cans  completely.  Sterilize  for  the  length 
of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 180 

Water  seal,  214° 120 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 40 


264 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Remove  from  container;  tighten  cover;  invert  to  cool,  and 
test  the  joints.  Wrap  in  paper  to  prevent  breakage,  and  store. 

Peas.  A cloudy  or  hazy  appearance  of  the  liquid  when  peas 
are  keeping  well,  indicates  that  the  product  was  roughly  handled 
in  blanching  and  cold-dipping,  or  that  split  or  broken  peas  were 
not  removed  before  packing.  When  peas  are  too  old  and 
blanching  is  not  done  carefully,  the  skin  becomes  cracked  and 
the  liquid  cloudy.  Some  waters  of  high  mineral  content  have  a 
tendency  to  increase  cloudiness,  also  to  harden  the  peas. 

Cauliflower.  Use  the  flowered  portion.  Plunge  it  into  cold 
brine  (|  pound  salt  to  12  quarts  of  water).  Allow  the  cauli- 
flower to  remain  in  this  brine  for  1 hour.  Blanch  it  3 minutes 
and  dip  quickly  into  cold  water.  Pack  it  in  hot  glass  jars 
or  tin  cans.  Fill  with  boiling  water  and  add  a level  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt  per  quart.  Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  position, 
not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  cans.  Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time 
given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 60 

Water  seal,  214° 40 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 30 

15  pounds  steam  pressure 20 


Remove  the  jars;  tighten  covers;  invert  jars  to  cool,  and  test 
the  joints.  Wrap  the  jars  with  paper  to  prevent  bleaching. 

Mushrooms.  Caution:  Unless  you  are  absolutely  sure  that 
you  know  a mushroom  when  you  see  it,  do  not  run  the  risk  of  gather- 
ing  and  using  for  food  what  you  think  are  mushrooms.  A large 
numbers  of  persons  are  poisoned  every  year  because  of  carelessness 
in  this  regard.  Many  very  poisonous  plants  closely  resemble 
edible  mushrooms.  Can  mushrooms  immediately  after  picking; 
if  allowed  to  stand  they  become  unfit  for  use.  (See  Farmers' 
Bulletin  796,  Some  Common  Edible  and  Poisonous  Mushrooms.) 

Wash  and  trim  the  mushrooms.  If  small,  can  them  whole; 
if  large,  they  may  be  cut  into  sections.  Blanch  the  mushrooms 
in  boiling  water  5 minutes.  Remove  and  plunge  them  quickly 
into  very  cold  water.  Pack  in  hot  glass  jars  and  add  boiling 
water  to  cover;  add  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  the  quart. 
Place  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  position,  not  tight.  Sterilize 
for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of 
outfit  used: 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


265 


Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° 80 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

15  pounds  steam  pressure 30 


Remove  the  jars;  tighten  covers;  invert  jars  to  cool,  and  test 
the  joints.  Wrap  jars  in  paper.  If  canning  in  tin,  always  use 
lacquered  cans.  Do  not  fail  to  blanch  and  cold-dip  mushrooms 
before  packing.  After  opening  containers,  remove  the  mush- 
rooms immediately  and  use  them  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Root  and  Tuber  Vegetables,  Such  as  Carrots,  Parsnips,  Salsify, 
Beets,  Turnips,  and  Sweet  Potatoes.  Grade  for  size,  color,  and 
degree  of  ripeness.  Wash  thoroughly,  use  vegetable  brush. 
Scald  or  blanch  in  hot  water  sufl5ciently  to  loosen  the  skin. 
Dip  quickly  into  cold  water.  Scrape  or  pare  to  remove  skin. 
Pack  whole  vegetables,  slices,  or  cross-section  pieces  in  hot 
glass  jars  or  tin  cans.  Add  boiling  hot  water  until  full.  Add 
level  teaspoonful  salt  to  quart.  Place  rubbers  and  tops  of  jars 
in  position;  seal  partially,  but  not  tight.  Cap  and  tin  cans 
completely.  Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the 
particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° 80 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  pounds  steam  pressure 40 


Remove  jars  from  canner;  tighten  covers;  invert  to  cool, 
and  test  joints.  Wrap  in  paper,  and  store. 

How  to  Prevent  the  Fading  of  Beets.  Small  beets  that  run 
40  to  the  quart  are  the  most  suitable  size  for  first-class  packs. 
The  older  the  beet  the  more  chance  there  is  for  loss  of  color. 
When  preparing  the  beet,  leave  on  1 inch  of  the  stem  and  all 
of  the  tail  while  blanching.  Blanch  not  more  than  5 minutes, 
and  cold-dip.  The  skin  should  be  scraped  from  the  beet,  not 
peeled.  Beets  should  be  packed  whole,  if  possible.  Well- 
canned  beets  will  show  a slight  loss  of  color  when  removed  from 
the  canner,  but  will  brighten  up  in  a few  days. 

[ • Greens  or  Potherbs.  A large  number  of  cultivated  and  wild 
greens  are  edible,  and  if  canned  by  this  method  will  make  a 
succulent  and  valuable  food  for  the  winter  and  spring  months. 


266 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Among  the  cultivated  greens  are  Swiss  chard,  kale,  Chinese 
cabbage  leaves,  upland  cress,  French  endive,  cabbage  sprouts, 
turnip  tops,  young  tender  New  Zealand  spinach,  beet  tops, 
dandelion,  young  tender  dasheen  sprouts,  native  mustard, 
Russian  mustard,  collards,  and  tender  rape  leaves.  Among  the 
wild  greens  are  pepper  cress,  lamb’s  quarter,  sour  dock,  smart- 
weed,  sprouts,  purslane,  or  pusley,”  pokeweed  sprouts, 
dandelion,  marsh  marigold,  wild  mustard,  and  milkweed 
(tender  sprouts  and  young  leaves). 

Can  greens  the  day  they  are  picked.  Wash  clean,  sort  thor- 
oughly, allowing  no  foreign  weed  -leaves  or  other  vegetable 
matter  to  remain.  Rid  the  greens  of  all  sand,  dirt,  dry  and 
decayed  or  diseased  leaves.  Place  the  greens  in  a crate  or 
cheese-cloth,  and  blanch  in  live  steam,  either  in  an  improvised 
homemade  steamer  or  a regular  commercial  steamer  for  15  min- 
utes. Remove  the  greens  and  plunge  quickly  into  cold  water. 
Place  on  the  table  and  cut  into  convenient  lengths.  Pack 
tight  in  hot  jars  or  tin  cans.  Add  hot  water  to  fill  the  container, 
and  season  to  taste.  The  product  will  be  slightly  improved 
if  a few  strips  of  boiled  bacon  or  chipped  beef  are  added.  A 
little  olive  oil  also  improves  the  flavor.  If  using  glass  jars, 
place  rubbers  and  tops  in  position;  partially  seal.  If  using 
tin  cans,  cap  and  tip  completely.  Sterilize  for  the  length  of 
time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 120 

Water  seal,  214° 90 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  pounds  steam  pressure 40 


Remove  from  canner;  tighten  covers  of  jars;  invert  to  cool, 
and  test  the  joints.  Wrap  in  paper  to  prevent  bleaching,  and 
store. 

Vegetable  Combinations 

Corn  and  Tomato  Combination,  Blanch  fresh  corn  on  the  cob 
5 minutes.  Cold-dip  quickly.  Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob, 
cutting  from  tip  to  butt.  Scald  the  tomatoes  minutes  and 
cold-dip.  Remove  the  skin  and  core.  Chop  tomatoes  into 
medium-sized  pieces.  Mix  thoroughly  2 parts  of  tomatoes 
with  1 part  of  corn.  Pack  the  mixture  in  hot  glass  jars  or 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


267 


enameled  tin  cans.  Add  a level  teaspoonful  of  salt  per  quart. 
Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and 
tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for 
the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 120 

Water  seal,  214° 120 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

15  pounds  steam  pressure 45 


Remove  the  jars;  tighten  the  covers;  invert  the  jars  to  cool, 
and  test  the  joints.  Wrap  the  jars  with  paper  to  prevent  bleach- 
ing. 

CorUf  Tomato,  and  String  Bean  Combination.  Use  1 part  of 
corn,  1 part  of  green  string  beans,  and  3 parts  of  tomatoes. 
Blanch  fresh  corn  on  the  cob  for  5 minutes  and  cold-dip.  Cut 
the  corn  from  the  cob,  cutting  from  the  tip  to  butt.  Prepare 
string  beans  and  cut  them  into  convenient  lengths.  Blanch 
them  4 minutes  and  cold-dip.  Blanch  the  tomatoes  1 to  3 
minutes  and  cold-dip.  Remove  the  skin  and  core.  Cut  the 
tomatoes  into  medium-sized  pieces.  Mix  thoroughly.  Pack 
the  mixture  in  hot  glass  jars  or  enameled  tin  cans.  Put  rubbers 
and  caps  of  jars  in  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans. 
Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular 
type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 120 

Water  seal,  214° 120 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

15  pounds  steam  pressure 45 


Remove  the  jars;  tighten  the  covers;  invert  the  jars  to  cool, 
and  test  the  joints.  Wrap  the  jars  with  paper  to  prevent 
bleaching. 


Fruits 

Soft  Fruits  and  Berries.  These  include  apricots,  blackberries, 
blueberries,  cherries,  currants,  dewberries,  figs,  gooseberries, 
grapes,  huckleberries,  peaches,  plums,  raspberries,  and  straw- 
berries. 

After  hulling,  seeding,  stemming,  or  skinning  the  fruit,  place 
fruit  in  a strainer  and  rinse  by  pouring  cold  water  over  it. 


268 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Pack  from  strainer  into  hot  jars  or  cans  without  crushing, 
using  big  spoon  or  ladle.  Hot  sirup  previously  prepared  should 
be  poured  over  the  fruit  at  once.  Before  packing  a second  jar, 
place  rubbers  and  caps  in  position,  not  tight.  If  using  tin  cans, 
seal  completely.  Enameled  tin  cans  should  be  used  for  all  highly 
acid  berries.  Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for 
the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 16 

Water  seal,  214® 12 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 10 

10  pounds  steam  pressure 5 


Remove  from  canner;  tighten  covers;  invert  to  cool,  and  test 
joints.  Wrap  in  paper  to  prevent  bleaching,  and  store. 

Another  Recipe  for  Strawberries,  Canned  by  this  recipe, 
strawberries  will  not  rise  to  the  top  of  the  sirup.  Use  only 
fresh,  ripe,  firm,  and  sound  berries.  Prepare  them  and  add  8 
ounces  of  sugar  and  2 tablespoonsful  of  water  to  each  quart  of 
berries.  Boil  slowly  for  15  minutes  in  an  enameled  or  acid- 
proof  kettle.  Allow  the  berries  to  cool  and  remain  several 
hours  or  overnight  in  the  covered  kettle.  Pack  the  cold  berries 
in  hot  glass  jars  or  enameled  tin  cans.  Put  the  rubbers  and 
caps  of  jars  in  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Ster- 
ilize for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type 
of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 8 

Water  seal  214® 6 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 5 


10  pounds  steam  pressure.  (Do  not  use.) 

Remove  the  jars;  tighten  the  covers;  invert  the  jars  to  cool 
and  test  the  joints.  Wrap  the  jars  with  paper  to  prevent  bleach- 
ing. 

Hard  Fruits:  Apples^  Pears,  and  Quinces,  Remove  skin  and 
core.  Cut  into  convenient  slices  or  sections  and  drop  into 
slightly  salted  cold  water  to  keep  from  tarnishing.  Blanch 
IJ  minutes.  Cold-dip.  Pack  closely  in  hot  jars  or  tin  cans. 
Fill  with  hot  sirup.  Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  into  position, 
not  tight.  Seal  tin  cans  completely.  Sterilize  for  the  length 
of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


269 


Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 20 

Water  seal,  214° 12 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 8 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 6 


Remove  from  canner;  tighten  covers;  invert  to  cool,  and  test 
joints.  Wrap  in  paper  to  prevent  bleaching,  and  store. 

Windfall  Apples,  Separate  apples  into  two  grades:  Whole 
and  reasonably  sound  and  firm,  first  grade;  all  other  apples 
(bruised,  worm-eaten,  and  those  containing  decayed  spots), 
second  grade. 

Whole  Apples y First  Grade,  Pare  and  core.  Drop  whole 
apples  in  cold,  slightly  salted  water,  to  keep  from  tarnishing. 
Pack  whole  apples  in  gallon  tin  cans  or  2-quart  hot  glass  jars. 
Add  thin  hot  sirup  until  full.  Place  rubbers  and  tops  of  jars 
in  position,  not  tight.  Seal  tin  cans  completely.  Sterilize 
for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of 
outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 16 

Water  seal,  214° 10 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 8 

10  pounds  steam  pressure 5 


Remove  from  canner;  tighten  covers;  invert  to  cool,  and  test 
the  joints.  Wrap  in  paper  to  prevent  bleaching,  and  store. 

Apple-pie  Filling,  The  only  difference  between  the  canning 
of  apples  for  pie  filling  and  canning  them  whole,  as  by  the  direc- 
tions above,  is  that  the  apples  should  be  sliced  immediately 
after  paring  into  cold,  slightly  salted  water.  It  will  be  found 
desirable  to  can  first-grade  apples  either  whole  or  quartered 
and  second-grade  apples  sliced  for  use  for  pie  filling.  Second- 
grade  apples  and  products  prepared  from  poor  stock  should  not 
be  sold,  of  course,  without  labels  which  make  the  grade  plain. 

Fruit  Juices 

The  fruit  juice  may  be  pressed  out  of  fruit  by  means  of  a cider 
press,  special  fruit  press,  or  other  improvised  presses;  then 
heated  in  an  acid-proof  kettle  up  to  110°  F.  The  fruit  juice 
may  then  be  poured  into  ordinary  hot  jars,  hot  bottles,  or  tin 
cans,  and  handled  by  the  same  directions  as  those  for  canning 


270 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


of  fruit  itself.  If  poured  into  miscellaneous  bottles,  it  is  sug- 
gested that  the  fruit  juice  be  sterihzed  as  follows: 

Make  a cotton  stopper  and  press  into  the  neck  of  the  bottle 
and  leave  during  the  sterilization  period.  Set  bottles  in  boiling 
hot  water  up  to  the  neck  of  the  bottle,  sterilize  the  fruit  juice 
for  40  minutes  at  a temperature  of  165°  F.  Remove  the  prod- 
uct, press  cork  in  top  over  cotton  stopper  immediately.  If  the 
cork  fits  well,  no  paraffin  need  be  used.  If  it  is  a poor  cork,  it 
may  be  necessary  to  dip  the  cork  in  a melted  solution  of  wax 
or  paraffin.  Fruit  juices  and  apple  cider  when  handled  in  this 
way  will  not  flatten  in  taste  and  will  keep  fresh  for  future 
use. 

Sirup  Made  from  Windfall  Apples  and  Apple  Cider  ^ 

Add  5 ounces  of  powdered  calcium  carbonate  to  7 gallons  of 
apple  cider.  Powdered  calcium  carbonate  (carbonate  of  lime), 
or  to  give  it  its  common  name,  precipitated  chalk,  is  low-priced 
and  harmless.  Boil  the  mixture  in  a kettle  or  vat  vigorously 
for  5 minutes.  Pour  the  liquid  into  vessels,  preferably  glass 
jars  or  pitchers;  allow  to  stand  6 or  8 hours,  or  until  perfectly 
clear.  Pour  the  clear  liquid  into  a preserving  kettle.  Do  not 
allow  sediment  at  bottom  to  enter.  Add  to  the  clear  liquid  one 
level  tablespoonful  of  lime  carbonate,  and  stir  thoroughly. 
The  process  is  completed  by  boiling  down  rapidly  to  a clear 
liquid.  Use  density  gauge  or  candy  thermometer  and  bring 
the  temperature  up  to  220°  F.  If  a thermometer  is  not  avail- 
able, boil  until  bulk  is  reduced  to  one-seventh  of  the  original 
volume.  To  determine  whether  the  sirup  is  cooked  enough, 
test  as  for  candy — by  pouring  a little  into  cold  water.  If  boiled 
enough  it  should  have  the  consistency  of  maple  sirup.  It 
should  not  be  cooked  long  enough  to  harden  like  candy  when 
tested. 

When  the  test  shows  that  the  sirup  has  been  cooked  enough, 
pour  it  into  fruit  jars,  pitchers,  etc.,  and  allow  it  to  cool  slowly. 
Slow  cooling  is  important,  as  otherwise  the  suspended  matter 
will  not  settle  properly  and  the  sirup  will  be  cloudy. 

A good  way  to  insure  slow  cooling  is  to  stand  the  vessel,  full 
of  sirup,  in  a bucket  or  a wash  boiler  of  hot  water  or  to  place  them 
in  a fireless  cooker.  The  white  sediment  which  settles  out 

* Apple-sirup  directions  furnished  by  H.  C.  Gore,  Bureau  of  Chemistry. 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


271 


during  cooking  is  called  malate  of  lime  ” and  is  a harmless 
compound  of  lime  with  the  natural  acid  of  the  apple.  When 
the  sirup  is  cooled,  it  should  be  stored  in  fruit  jars,  bottles,  or 
jugs  and  crocks.  Place  the  rubber  and  cap  or  cotton  stopper 
or  cork  in  position,  and  tighten.  Place  the  container  in  boiling 
hot  water  and  sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for 
the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 15 

Water  seal,  214° 10 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 8 

10  pounds  steam  pressure 5 


Remove  jars  and  tighten  covers.  Invert  to  cool,  and  test  the 
joints.  Store  for  future  use.  This  recipe  is  for  making  sirup 
primarily  for  home  consumption.  If  the  product  is  to  be  sold, 
legal  requirements  as  to  labeling  should  be  ascertained  and 
complied  with. 

Preserves 

The  one-period,  cold-pack  method  of  canning  will  be  found 
especially  helpful  in  eliminating  the  necessity  of  using  parafiSn 
or  other  wax  tops  for  jellies,  jams,  and  preserves.  Three  recipes 
and  directions  for  canning  jellies,  jams,  and  preserves  by  this 
method  follow  to  illustrate  the  application  of  the  method.  The 
use  of  containers  with  screw  tops  is  recommended  for  these 
products.  This  will  make  unnecessary  the  expense  and  trouble 
of  using  paraffin,  and  will  make  the  melting,  molding,  and 
deterioration  of  the  top  parts  of  the  packs  less  likely. 

Strawberry,  Make  a sirup  of  1 quart  of  water  and  11  pounds 
of  sugar  and  cook  it  in  an  open  kettle /Until  the  usual  temperature 
for  making  candies,  jellies,  etc.,  is  reached.  If  a candy  ther- 
mometer is  used  cook  the  preserves  until  they  reach  a tem- 
perature of  265°  F.  A candy  thermometer  resigters  265°  F. 
when  placed  in  the  sirup.  Add  8 pounds  of  berries  to  the  sirup. 
Cook  very  slowly,  just  at  the  boiling  point.  Stop  the  cooking 
when  the  thermometer  registers  219°  F.  and  pour  into  shallow 
pans  to  cool.  Hasten  the  cooling  by  pouring  sirup  over  the 
berries.  Skim  while  cooking.  Fill  into  hot  jars.  Put  the  rub- 
ber and  cap  in  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  if  using  enameled 
tin  cans.  Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the 
particular  type  of  outfit  used: 


272 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 20 

Water  seal,  214° 15 


Steam  pressure  (see  note  under  cherry  preserves) . 10 

Remove  the  jars;  tighten  the  covers;  invert  the  jars  to  cool, 
and  test  the  joints.  Wrap  the  jars  in  paper  to  prevent  bleach- 
ing. 

Cherry » Place  1 gallon  of  cold  water  in  a kettle  and  add  10 
pounds  of  pitted  cherries.  After  bringing  to  boiling  point 
continue  to  boil  slowly  for  18  minutes.  Add  12  pounds  of  gran- 
ulated sugar  and  cook  until  after  the  mixture  has  boiled  violently 
for  a few  minutes.  If  a candy  thermometer  is  used  cook  the 
mixture  until  a temperature  of  219°  F.  is  reached.  Pack  into 
hot  glass  jars.  Put  the  rubber  and  cap  in  position,  not  tight. 
Cap  and  tip  if  using  enameled  tin  cans.  Sterilize  for  the  length 
of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 20 

Water  seal,  214° 15 

Steam  pressure 10 


Note:  when  using  pressure-cooker  outfits  on  preserves,  keep 
the  valve  open  during  the  period  of  sterilization. 

Sun  Preserves 

Strawberry.  Select  ripe,  firm  berries.  Pick  and  preserve  them 
the  same  day.  Hull  and  rinse  as  described.  Place  them  in  a 
shallow  platter  in  a single  layer;  sprinkle  sugar  over  them; 
pour  over  them  50°  sirup  (same  as  strawberry  preserves,  but 
boiled  thicker).  Cover  them  with  a glass  dish  or  a plain  window 
glass.  Allow  them  to  stand  in  the  hot  sun  8 or  12  hours.  Pack 
them  in  hot  screw-top  jelly  glasses.  Put  the  rubber  and  cap 
in  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  if  using  enameled  tin  cans. 
Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular 
type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 20 

Water  seal,  214° 15 


Steam  pressure  (see  note  under  cherry  preserves) . 10 

Remove  the  jars;  tighten  the  covers;  invert  the  jars  to  cool, 
and  test  the  joints.  Wrap  the  jars  in  paper  to  prevent  bleaching. 


273 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


Soups 

Soup  Stock,  Strip  off  the  fat  and  meat  from  25  pounds  of  beef 
hocks,  joints,  and  bones  containing  marrow.  Crack  bones  with 
a hatchet  or  cleaver.  Reserve  meat  and  fat  for  other  use. 
Put  the  broken  bones  into  a thin  cloth  sack,  and  place  in  a large 
kettle  containing  5 gallons  of  cold  water.  Simmer  (do  not  boil) 
for  6 or  7 hours.  Do  not  salt  while  simmering.  Skim  off  all  fat. 
This  should  make  about  5 gallons  of  stock. 

LIST  OF  SUPPLIES  NEEDED 
25  pounds  of  beef  bones.  5 gallons  of  water. 

Pack  hot  into  hot  glass  jars,  bottles,  or  enameled  or  lac- 
quered tin  cans.  Partially  seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans. 
Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type 
of  out  fitused: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° 75 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 45 


Vegetable  Soup,  Soak  i pound  lima  beans  and  1 pound  rice 
for  12  hours.  Boil  J pound  pearl  barley  for  2 hours.  Blanch 
1 pound  carrots,  1 pound  onions,  1 medium-sized  potato,  and 
1 red  pepper  for  3 minutes,  and  cold-dip.  Prepare  the  vegetables 
and  cut  into  small  cubes.  Mix  thoroughly  lima  beans,  rice, 
barley,  carrots,  onions,  potatoes,  and  red  pepper.  Fill  hot 
glass  jars  or  enameled  tin  cans  three-fourths  full  of  the  above 
mixture  of  vegetables  and  cereals.  Make  a smooth  paste  of  | 
pound  of  wheat  flour  and  blend  in  5 gallons  of  soup  stock.  Boil 
3 minutes  and  add  4 ounces  salt. 


LIST  OF  SUPPLIES  NEEDED 


I pound  lima  beans. 

1 pound  rice. 

I pound  pearl  barley. 
1 pound  carrots. 

1 pound  onions. 


1 medium-sized  potato. 
1 red  pepper. 

J pound  flour. 

4 ounces  salt. 

5 gallons  soup  stock. 


Pour  stock  over  vegetables  and  fill  cans  or  hot  glass  jars.  Par- 
tially seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  for  the 


274 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit 


used: 

Minutes. 

Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° 75 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 45 


Cream  of  Pea  Soup.  Soak  8 pounds  of  dry  peas  overnight. 
Cook  until  soft.  Mash  fine.  Add  the  mashed  peas  to  5| 
gallons  of  soup  stock  and  bring  to  boil.  Pass  the  boiling  liquid 
through  a fine  sieve.  Make  a smooth  paste  of  | pound  flour, 
and  add  paste,  10  ounces  of  sugar,  and  3 ounces  of  salt  to  the 
soup  stock.  Cook  until  soup  begins  to  thicken. 

LIST  OF  SUPPLIES  NEEDED 
5J  gallons  soup  stock.  10  ounces  granulated  sugar. 

8 pounds  dry  peas.  J pound  flour. 

3 ounces  salt. 

Pack  in  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans.  Partially  seal  glass  jars. 
Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given 
below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214°. . 75 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 45 


Cream  of  Potato  Soup.  Boil  1|  pounds  of  potatoes,  sliced 
thin,  and  5 gallons  of  soup  stock  for  10  minutes.  Add  3 ounces 
of  salt,  i teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  i pound  of  butter,  and  boil 
slowly  for  5 minutes.  Make  3 tablespoonfuls  of  flour  into 
smooth  paste  and  add  to  the  above. 

LIST  OF  SUPPLIES  NEEDED 

5 gallons  soup  stock.  i tablespoonful  pepper  (scant) 

1|  pounds  thin-sliced  potatoes  | pound  butter. 

(culls  wiU  do).  3 tablespoonfuls  flour. 

3 ounces  salt. 

Cook  3 minutes  and  pack  in  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans  while 
hot.  Partially  seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Ster- 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


275 


ilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type 
of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° 75 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 45 


Bean  Soup.  Soak  3 pounds  of  beans  12  hours  in  cold  water. 
Cut  2 pounds  of  ham  meat  into  J-inch  cubes  and  place  in  a 
small  sack.  Place  the  beans,  ham,  and  4 gallons  of  water  in  a 
kettle  and  boil  slowly  until  the  beans  are  very  soft.  Remove 
the  ham  and  beans  from  the  liquor,  and  mash  the  beans  fine. 
Return  the  ham  and  mashed  beans  to  the  liquor  and  add  5 
gallons  of  soup  stock  and  seasoning,  and  bring  to  boil. 

LIST  OF  SUPPLIES  NEEDED 
5 gallons  stock.  4 gallons  water. 

3 pounds  beans.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

2 pounds  lean  ham. 

Pack  into  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans  while  hot.  Partially  seal 
glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  for  the  length  of 
time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit  used : 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° 75 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 45 


Okra  Soup.  Slice  8 pounds  okra  into  thin  disks.  Blanch 
10  minutes  and  cold-dip.  Boil  1|  pounds  rice  for  25  minutes. 
Mix  the  okra  and  rice  and  fill  the  cans  or  hot  jars  half  full.  To 
5 gallons  soup  stock  add  5 ounces  salt,  J teaspoonful  of  coriander 
seed,  and  i teaspoonful  of  powdered  cloves,  and  bring  to  a boil. 

LIST  OF  SUPPLIES  NEEDED 
5 gallons  soup  stock.  | tsp.  powdered  cloves. 

8 pounds  okra.  1|  pounds  rice, 

i teaspoonful  coriander  seed.  5 ounces  salt. 

Fill  the  remaining  portion  of  the  jars  or  cans  with  the  sea- 
soned food.  Partially  seal  the  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin 


276 


&.DVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


cans.  Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  par- 
ticular type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° 75 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 45 


Tomato  Pulp  for  Cream  of  Tomato  Soup.  Place  tomatoes  in  a 
wire  basket  or  piece  of  cheese-cloth  and  plunge  into  boiling  water 
from  1 to  3 minutes.  Plunge  into  cold  water.  Remove  the 
skin  and  core.  Place  tomatoes  in  a kettle  and  boil  30  minutes. 
Pass  the  tomato  pulp  through  a sieve.  Pack  in  hot  glass  jars 
and  tin  cans  while  hot,  and  add  a level  teaspoonful  of  salt  per 
quart.  Partially  seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize 
for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of 
outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 30 

Water  seal,  214° 20 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 18 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 10 


Chicken-soup  Stock.  Place  30  pounds  chicken  in  10  gallons  of 
cold  water  and  simmer  over  fire  for  5 hours.  Remove  meat  from 
bones,  then  strain.  Add  sufficient  water  to  make  10  gallons 
of  stock. 

LIST  OF  SUPPLIES  NEEDED 
30  pounds  chicken  10  gallons  water. 

Fill  hot  glass  jars  or  enameled  tin  cans  with  the  hot  stock. 
Partially  seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  for 
the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit 
used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° 75 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 45 


Chicken  Broth  with  Rice.  For  each  gallon  of  soup  stock  use  . 
12  ounces  of  rice.  Boil  the  rice  30  minutes.  Fill  hot  jars  or 
enameled  tin  cans  two-thirds  full  of  rice  and  the  remainder 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


277 


with  soup  stock.  Partially  seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin 
cans.  Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  par- 
ticular type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commerciax 90 

Water  seal,  214° 75 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 45 


Chicken  Gumbo,  Cut  2 pounds  of  ham  into  small  cubes  and 
boil  30  minutes.  Mince  3 pounds  chicken,  and  chop  J pound 
of  onions  fine.  Make  a smooth  paste  of  \ pound  of  flour.  Add 
above  to  5 gallons  chicken-soup  stock.  Then  add  | pound  of 
butter  and  J pound  of  salt  and  boil  10  minutes;  then  add 
3 ounces  of  powdered  okra  mixed  with  1 pint  of  water. 

LIST  OF  SUPPLIES  NEEDED 
5 gallons  chicken-soup  stock.  J pound  butter. 

3 pounds  minced  chicken.  J pound  salt. 

2 pounds  ham.  ^ pound  flour. 

§ pound  onions.  3 ounces  powdered  okra. 

Fill  into  hot  glass  jars  or  enameled  tin  cans  while  hot.  Par- 
tially seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  for  the 
length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit 
used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° 75 

5 pounds  steam  pressure '60 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure, 45 


Vegetables  for  Soup 

If  it  is  impracticable  to  obtain  materials  for  making  soup 
stock  in  the  summer  when  vegetables  are  abundantly  available, 
the  vegetable  portion  of  the  soup  may  be  canned  alone.  The 
preparation  of  soup  from  cans  of  such  vegetable  combinations 
will  be  a relatively  simple  matter  whenever  stock  is  available, 
as  it  should  be  in  most  households  if  meat  refuse  is  properly 
utilized. 

Soak  6 pounds  of  lima  beans  and  4 pounds  of  dry  peas  over 
night.  Boil  each  § hour.  Blanch  16  pounds  of  carrots,  6 


278 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


pounds  of  cabbage,  3 pounds  of  celery,  6 pounds  of  turnips, 
4 pounds  of  okra,  1 pound  of  onions,  and  4 pounds  of  parsley 
for  3 minutes,  and  dip  all  in  cold  water  quickly.  Prepare  the 
vegetables  and  chop  them  into  small  cubes.  Chop  the  onions 
and  celery  extra  fine.  Mix  all  of  the  vegetables  together  thor- 
oughly and  seasoa  to  taste. 


LIST  OF  SUPPLIES  NEEDED 

16  pounds  carrots  (small)  4 pounds  okra. 

6 pounds  cabbage.  , 1 pound  onions. 

3 pounds  celery  (stems  and  leaves)  4 pounds  parsley. 

6 pounds  turnips.  4 pounds  dry  peas. 

6 pounds  lima  beans.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Pack  in  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans.  Fill  with  boiling  water. 
Partially  seal  glass  jars.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  for 
the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit 
used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° 75 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 60 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 45 


Meats 

While  meats  may  be  canned  successfully  if  directions 
are  followed  carefully,  it  is  perhaps  advisable  for 
beginners  in  canning  to  start  with  vegetables  and  fruits, 
taking  up  the  canning  of  meats  only  after  thorough 
familiarity  with  the  process  described  in  this  bulletin 
has  been  acquired.  If  canned  meat  products  are  to 
be  offered  for  sale  through  interstate  shipment,  inquiry 
should  be  made  of  the  United  States  Department  of 
Agriculture  and  State  food  regulating  agencies  in  regard 
to  the  steps  which  must  be  taken  to  comply  with  the 
United  States  meat-inspection  regulations  and  local 
laws. 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


279 


Poultry  and  Game  Birds.  Recipe  No.  1.  Kill  fowl  and  draw 
at  once;  wash  carefully  and  cool;  cut  into  convenient  sections. 
Place  in  wire  basket  or  cheese-cloth  and  boil  until  meat  can  be 
removed  from  bones;  remove  from  boiling  liquid  and  remove 
meat  from  bones;  pack  closely  into  glass  jars  or  enameled  cans; 
fill  jars  with  pot  liquid,  after  it  has  been  concentrated  one-half; 
add  level  teaspoonful  of  salt  per  quart  of  meat,  for  seasoning; 
put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  into  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and 
tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the 
particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Hours. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 3 

Water  seal,  214° 3 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 2 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 1 


Remove  jars;  tighten  covers;  invert  to  cool,  and  test  joints. 
Wrap  jars  with  paper. 

Recipe  No.  2.  Kill  fowl  and  draw  at  once;  wash  carefully 
and  cool;  cut  into  convenient  sections;  scald  in  boiling  water 
and  dip  at  once  into  cold  water.  Pack  immediately  into  glass 
jars  or  enameled  cans;  fill  with  boiling  water;  add  level  tea- 
spoonful of  salt  per  quart;  put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  into  posi- 
tion, not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  for  the  length 
of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Hours. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 3 

Water  seal,  214°. 3 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 2 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 1 


Remove  jars;  tighten  covers;  invert  to  cool,  and  test  joints. 
Wrap  jars  with  paper  to  prevent  bleaching. 

Fresh  Beef.  Obtain  fresh  beef,  cut  into  convenient  pieces  for 
handling  (about  f pound  in  weight),  and  roast  or  boil  slowly 
for  i hour.  Cut  into  small  pieces,  remove  gristle,  bone,  and 
excessive  fat,  and  pack  directly  into  hot  glass  jars;  fill  with 
gravy  from  the  roasting  pan  or  pot  liquid  concentrated  to  one- 
half  its  volume;  put  rubber  and  cap  into  position,  not  tight. 
Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular 
type  of  outfit  used: 


280 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Hours. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 3 

Water  seal,  214°. 3 

5 pounds  steam  pressure. 2 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 1 


Corned  Beef,  After  beef  has  been  properly  corned  for  required 
time,  remove  the  meat  from  the  brine;  soak  for  2 hours  in  clear 
water,  changing  the  water  once;  place  in  a wire  basket  and  boil 
slowly  for  J hour;  remove  from  the  boiling  water,  plunge  into 
cold  water,  and  remove  gristle,  bone,  and  excessive  fat.  Cut 
meat  into  small  pieces  and  pack  closely  into  hot  glass  jars  or 
enameled  cans.  Put  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  into  position, 
not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans.  Sterilize  for  the  length  of 
time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Hours. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 3 

Water  seal,  214° 3 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 2 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 1 


Specially  Prepared  Meats 

Spring  Chicheny  Fried,  After  cleaning  and  preparing  spring 
frys,  season  and  fry  as  though  preparing  for  serving  directly  on 
the  table.  Cook  until  the  meat  is  about  three-fourths  done. 
If  a whole  spring  chicken,  break  the  neck  and  both  legs  and 
fold  around  body  of  chicken.  Roll  up  tight,  tie  a string  around 
the  chicken,  and  drop  this  hot,  partially  fried  product  into  hot 
quart  glass  jar  or  enameled  tin  can.  A quart  jar  will  hold 
two  to  four  small  chickens.  Pour  liquid  from  the  griddle  or 
frying  pan  into  the  container  over  the  chicken.  Place  rubbers 
and  caps  of  jars  into  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  tip  tin  cans. 
Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular 
type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° 60 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 40 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 30 


In  a similar  way  any  fowl  or  wild  game  may  be  prepared  by 
frying,  oven-baking,  roasting,  or  stewing.  The  meat  products 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


281 


which  may  be  canned  in  this  way  include  beef,  pork,  Hamburg 
steak,  sausage,  venison,  rabbit,  squirrel,  raccoon,  opossum, 
lamb,  and  all  types  of  sea  food.  All  may  be  packed  after  cook- 
ing three-fourths  done  in  any  desired  way.  Hot  glass  jars 
or  enameled  tin  cans  may  be  used.  When  the  products  are 
packed  while  hot  in  the  containers  the  hot  liquids,  gravies, 
dressings,  etc.,  or  hot  water  should  be  poured  over  them.  Put 
rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  into  position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  tip 
tin  cans.  Sterilize  for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the 
particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° ' 60 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 40 

10  to  15  pounds  steam  pressure 30 

Tighten  jars  and  invert  to  test  joints. 


Camp  Rations 

Ration  No.  1.  Products  required  for  mixture: 

4 pounds  rice.  1 pound  cheese  (or  | lb.  butter). 

1 pound  fresh  green  peppers.  1 pound  fresh  pork. 

4 Chili  peppers.  4 Spanish  peppers. 

4 cloves  or  2 garlic.  8 level  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

4 quarts  tomatoes.  4 quarts  water. 

Put  the  meat,  peppers,  and  garlic  through  a food  chopper. 
Mix  with  tomatoes,  water,  and  salt.  Cook  on  slow  fire,  simmer- 
ing for  45  minutes.  Soak  rice  in  salted  water  for  20  minutes. 
Rinse  with  cold  water  at  once.  Mix  this  product  with  the 
sauce  without  straining.  Grind  or  grate  cheese  and  mix  thor- 
oughly with  all  the  other  products. 

To  can  this  ration,  the  mixture  should  be  packed  in  hot  glass 
jars  or  tin  cans  while  hot.  Place  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in 
position,  not  tight.  Cap  and  seal  tin  cans  completely.  Ster- 
ilize for  the  length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of 
outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° 60 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 50 

10  pounds  steam  pressure 40 


282 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Remove  jars  or  cans;  tighten  glass  jar  covers;  invert  to  cool, 
and  test  joints.  Wrap  jars  to  prevent  bleaching,  and  store. 

Ration  No.  2.  Products  required  for  mixture: 


1 lb.  rice  or  hominy,  cracked. 

1 teaspoonful  salt. 

§ pound  bacon  or  chipped  beef 
cut  into  small  pieces. 

1 Ib.  mixed  equal  parts  carrots, 
onions,  beans,  Irish  potatoes. 


2 quarts  water  or  milk  (or  1 
quart  water  and  1 qt.toilk). 
i pound  sweet  green  peppers 
cut  fine. 

1 pint  strained  tomatoes. 
Season  with  celery  salt  or 
_ celery  seed. 


Cook  rice  or  hominy,  water  or  milk,  and  salt  in  a double 
boiler  until  the  rice  or  hominy  is  soft.  Bacon  or  chipped  beef, 
green  peppers,  and  the  strained  tomatoes  should  be  cooked  or 
boiled  separately.  Then  add  to  this  mixture  the  1-pound 
mixture  of  vegetables  and  season  with  mixed  spices.  Cook  this 
vegetable  combination  until  done.  Mix  at  once  rice,  bacon, 
green  peppers,  etc.  Stir  this  well  into  the  mixture. 

The  product  to  be  canned  should  be  hot  and  thoroughly 
mixed.  Pack  mixture  into  hot  glass  jars  or  tin  cans  at  once  to 
i inch  of  top.  Place  rubbers  and  caps  of  jars  in  position,  not 
tight.  Seal  tin  cans  completely.  Sterilize  for  the  length 
of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit  used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° 60 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 50 

10  pounds  steam  pressure 30 


Remove  jars;  tighten  covers;  invert  to  cool,  and  test  joints. 
Wrap  and  store. 


Ration  No.  3.  One-pound  pack.  Products  used: 

8 ounces  beef.  1 ounce  carrots. 

2 ounces  potatoes.  1 ounce  beans. 

2 ounces  onions.  2 ounces  beef  gravy. 


Parboil  the  beef  in  kettle  with  thin  gravy  for  30  minutes.  Cut 
up  potatoes,  onions,  and  carrots  into  small  sections;  add  the 
beans.  Place  entire  mixture  in  kettle;  add  the  gravy,  season 
to  taste.  Stir  mixture,  and  cook  for  10  minutes. 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


283 


TIME-TABLE  FOR  SCALDING,  BLANCHING,  AND  STERILIZING 
VEGETABLES,  SOUPS,  FRUITS,  AND  MEATS. 


Products  by  Groups. 

Scald 

or 

Blanch. 

Hot- 

water- 

bath 
Outfits 
at  212°.  1 

Water- 

seal 

Outfits, 

214°. 

Steam 
Pressure 
5 to  10 
Pounds. 

Pressure 
Cooker, 
10  to  15 
Pounds. 

SPECIAL  VEGETABLES 

Tomatoes 

1| 

22 

18 

15 

10 

Pumpkin 

3 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Squash 

3 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Hominy 

3 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Sauerkraut. 

3 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Corn,  sweet 

5 

180 

120 

90 

60 

Corn,  field 

10 

180 

120 

60 

50 

Mushrooms 

5 

90 

80 

50 

30 

Sweet  peppers 

5 

90 

75 

60 

40 

POD  VEGETABLES  AND  OTHER 

GREEN  PRODUCTS 

Beans,  wax 

5-10 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Beans,  stringless 

5-10 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Okra 

5-10 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Peppers,  green  or  ripe 

5-10 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Cabbage 

5-10 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Brussels  sprouts 

5-10 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Cauliflower 

3 

60 

40  ' 

30 

20 

ROOT  AND  TUBER  VEGETABLES 

Carrots. 

5 

90 

80 

60 

40 

Parsnips 

5 

90 

80 

60 

40 

Salsify 

5 

90 

80 

60 

40 

Beets 

5 

90 

/ 80 

60 

40  " 

Tmrnips 

5 

90 

80 

60 

40  1 

Sweet  potatoes 

5 

90 

80 

60 

40 

Other  roots  and  tubers 

5 

90 

80 

60 

40 

COMBINATIONS  AND  SOUP 

VEGETABLES 

Lima  beans 

5-10 

180 

120 

60 

40 

Peas. 

5-10 

180 

120 

60 

40 

Vegetable  combinations 

5-10 

120 

120 

60 

45 

284 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


TIME-TABLE  FOR  SCALDING,  BLANCHING,  AND  STERILIZING 
VEGETABLES,  SOUPS,  FRUITS,  AND  Continued 


Products  by  Groups. 

Scald 

or 

Blanch, 

Hot- 

water- 
bath 
Outfits 
at  212°. 

Water- 

seal 

Outfits, 

214°. 

Steam 
Pressure 
5 to  10 
Pounds. 

Pressure 
Cooker, 
10  to  15 
Pounds. 

GREENS,  DOMESTIC  OR  WILD 

Swiss  chard 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Kale 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Chinese  cabbage  leaves 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Upland  cress 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

French  endive 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Cabbage  sprouts 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Turnip  tops  (young,  tender) . . 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Spinach,  New  Zealand 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Asparagus 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Spinach 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Beet  tops 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Dandelion,  cultivated. 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Dandelion,  wild 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Dasheen  sprouts  (tender) 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Mustard,  native 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Mustard,  Russian 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Mustard,  wild 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Collards 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Rape  (tender  leaves) 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Pepper  cress 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Lamb’s-quarter 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Sour  dock 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Smartweed 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Sprouts 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Purslane,  or  “ pusley  ” 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Pokeweed  sprouts 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Marsh  marigold 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

Milkweed  (tender  sprouts  and 

young  leaves) 

15 

120 

90 

60 

40 

SOFT  FRUITS  AND  BERRIES 

Apricots 

1-2 

16 

12 

10 

5 

Blackberries 

16 

12 

10 

5 

Blueberries 

16 

12 

10 

5 

Cherries 

16 

12 

10 

5 

Currants 

16 

12 

10 

5 

/ 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING  285 


TIME-TABLE  FOR  SCALDING,  BLANCHING,  AND  STERILIZING 
VEGETABLES,  SOUPS.  FRUITS,  AND  MEATS— Coreitnued 


Products  by  Groups. 

Scald 

or 

Blanch. 

Hot- 

water- 

Bath 
Outfits 
at  212°. 

Water- 

seal 

Outfits, 

214°. 

Steam 
Pressure 
5 to  10 
Pounds. 

Pressure 
Cooker, 
10  to  15 
Pounds. 

SOFT  FRUITS  AND  BERRIES 

Continued 

Dewberries 

16 

12 

10 

5 

Figs 

1-2 

16 

12 

10 

5 

Gooseberries 

1-2 

16 

12 

10 

5 

Grapes 

16 

12 

10 

5 

Huckleberries 

16 

12 

10 

5 

Peaches 

1-2 

16 

12 

10 

5 

Plums 

16 

12 

10 

5 

Raspberries 

16 

12 

10 

5 

Strawberries 

16 

12 

10 

5 

Citrus  fruits 

1-2 

12 

8 

6 

4 

Fruits  w;ithout  sugar  sirup. . . . 

30 

20 

12 

10 

HARD  FRUITS 

Apples 

n 

20 

12 

8 

6 

Pears 

U 

20 

12 

8 

6 

Quinces 

20 

12 

8 

6 

Windfall  apples  (pie  filling) . . . 



12 

10 

8 

5 

Quartered  apples  (salad) . 

12 

10 

8 

5 

Whole  apples,  pared  and  cored 

16 

10 

8 

5 

Apple  sirup 

15 

10 

8 

5 

Fruit  juices 

15 

10 

8 

5 

Preserves,  after  preparation 

and  filling 

20 

15 

10 

MEATS 

Uncooked 

Poultry  and  game 

180 

180 

120 

60 

Beef 

180 

180 

120 

60 

Corn  beef 

180 

180 

120 

60 

Prepared  young  meats 

Spring  frys 

90 

60 

40 

30 

Fried  meats 

90 

60 

40 

30 

Baked  meats 

90 

60 

40 

30 

Stewed  meats 

90 

60 

40 

30 

Roast  meats 

90 

60 

40 

30 

286 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


TIME-TABLE  FOR  SCALDING,  BLANCHING,  AND  STERILIZING 
VEGETABLES,  SOUPS,  FRUITS,  AND  MEATS— Conh'nued 


Products  by  Groups. 

Scald 

or 

Blanch. 

Hot- 
water- 
Bath 
Outfits 
at  212°. 

Water- 

seal 

Outfits, 

214°. 

Steam 
Pressure 
5 to  10 
Pounds. 

Pressure 
Cooker, 
10  to  15 
Pounds. 

MEATS — Continued 

Prepared  mature  meats 

Wild  game 

90 

60 

40 

30 

Fowls 

90 

60 

40 

30 

Cockerels 

90 

60 

40 

30 

Fried  meats 

90 

60 

40 

30 

Baked  meats 

90 

60 

40 

30 

Stewed  meats 

90 

60 

40 

30 

Roast  meats 

90 

60 

40 

30 

Fish 

5 

180 

160 

120 

90 

Shellfish 

5 

180 

160 

120 

90 

CAMP  RATIONS 

No.  1 

90 

60 

50 

40 

30 

No.  2 

90 

60 

50 

No.  3 

90 

60 

50 

40 

SOUPS 

Cream  of  tomato  soup ....... 

30 

20 

18 

10 

All  other  soup  combinations 

and  soup  stock 

90 

75 

60 

45 

To  can  the  mixture,  pack  it  hot  into  hot  glass  jars  or  tin 
cans  to  I inch  of  top.  Place  rubbers  and  tops  of  jars  in  position, 
not  tight.  If  using  tin  cans,  seal  completely.  Sterilize  for 
length  of  time  given  below  for  the  particular  type  of  outfit 
used: 

Minutes. 


Water  bath,  homemade  or  commercial 90 

Water  seal,  214° 60 

5 pounds  steam  pressure 50 

10  pounds  steam  pressure 40 


Remove  jars  or  cans;  tighten  jar  covers;  invert  to  cool,  and 
test  joints.  Wrap  and  store. 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


287 


All  vegetables,  meats,  and  other  food  products  used  in  the  soup 
combinations  should  be  prepared  and  treated  prior  to  steriliza- 
tion in  the  same  way  as  when  canned  separately,  and  then 
mixed,  packed,  and  thoroughly  sterilized. 

This  time  schedule  is  based  upon  the  1-quart  pack  and  upon 
fresh  products  at  altitudes  up  to  1,000  feet.  For  higher  alti- 
tudes, increase  the  time  10  per  cent  for  each  additional  500 
feet. 

When  processing  fruits  in  steam-pressure  canners,  not  over 
5 pounds  of  steam  pressure  should  be  used. 

When  processing  vegetables,  do  not  use  over  15  pounds  of 
pressure. 

Special  Canning  Precautions  and  Suggestions 

Mold  on  Canned  Goods 

Mold  may  develop  on  canned  goods  if  the  seal  is 
defective;  if,  after  sterilizing,  the  tops  are  removed  from 
the  jars  to  replace  the  rubber  rings;  and  if  the  jars  are 
kept  in  a damp  place  where  the  rubbers  may  decompose. 

Shrinkage  during  Sterilization 

Shrinkage  may  occur  during  sterilization  because 
of  improper  and  insufficient  blanching  and  cold-dipping, 
careless  packing,  poor  grading,  sterilizing  for  too  long 
a period,  or  lack  of  jugdment  in  the  amount  and  size 
of  product  put  into  the  container. 

Blaeching  Greens 

The  proper  way  to  blanch  all  greens  or  potherbs  is 
in  a steamer  or  in  a vessel  improvised  to  do  the  blanch- 
ing in  steam  above  the  water  line.  If  this  is  done, 
a high  percentage  of  mineral  salts  and  volatile  oil  is 
retained  in  the  product. 

Special  Requirements  of  Com,  Peas,  Beans,  and  Asparagus 

Canned  corn,  peas,  beans,  and  asparagus  may  show 
no  signs  of  spoilage  and  still  when  opened  have  a sour 


288 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


taste  and  a disagreeable  odor.  This  specific  trouble  is 
known  to  the  canner  as  “ flat-sour,”  and  can  be  avoided 
if  the  canner  will  use  fresh  product,  that  is,  one  which 
has  not  been  gathered  more  than  5 or  6 hours,  and  will 
blanch,  cold-dip,  and  pack  one  jar  of  product  at  a time, 
and  place  each  jar  in  the  canner  as  it  is  packed.  The 
first  jar  in  will  not  be  affected  by  the  extra  cooking. 
When  the  steam-pressure  canner  is  used  the  jars  or 
cans  may  be  placed  in  the  retort,  the  cover  placed 
in  position,  but  not  clamped  down  until  the  retort  is 
filled.  Rapid  cooling  of  these  products  prevents  over- 
cooking, clarifies  the  liquid,  and  preserves  the  shape 
and  texture. 

APPENDIX 

Handling  and  Sealing  Containers 
Glass  Jars 

Glass  jars  of  several  types  are  available  for  use  in 
home  canning.  The  types  in  most  general  use,  how- 
ever, are  those  with  metal  screw-tops,  those  with 
glass  and  spring-tops,  and  those  with  suction  seal  tops. 
While  large-necked  bottles  and  jars  not  provided  with 
sealing  tops  can  not  be  used  for  canning,  they  can  be 
used  as  containers  for  preserves,  marmalades,  jellies, 
and  other  fruit  preparations  in  which  heavy  or  thick 
sirups  are  used.  Such  jars  can  be  capped  with  paper 
and  paraffin,  or,  in  the  case  of  jellies  and  stiff  mar- 
malades, with  paraffin  alone. 

Before  food  to  be  canned  is  prepared  for  packing, 
jars  should  be  tested,  washed,  and  placed  in  a vessel 
of  cool  water  on  a stove  to  heat.  The  jars  should  be 
kept  hot  in  the  water  until  needed  for  packing.  To 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


289 


test  screw-top  jars,  place  the  top  on  the  jar  without  a 
rubber,  and  screw  down  tight.  If  a case  knife  can  be 
inserted  easily  between  the  top  and  the  glass,  the  top 
usually  is  defective.  Another  test  is  to  screw  the  top 
down  lightly  on  a rubber  and  pull  the  rubber  from 
its  position.  If,  when  released,  the  rubber  ring  returns 
to  its  position  between  the  top  and  the  jar,  the  top  is 
defective. 

If  a glass  top,  placed  on  a jar  without  a rubber,  rocks 
when  pressed,  it  is  defective.  The  wire  bails  which  hold 
glass  tops  in  place  should  go  on  with  a snap  even  when 
the  tightening  lever  on  the  clamp  spring  is  up.  If  the 
bail  is  not  tight  it  should  be  removed  from  the  tighten- 
ing lever  and  bent  until  it  fits  tightly.  This  tightening 
of  the  bail  should  be  done  every  year. 

Only  good,  elastic  rubber  rings  should  be  used.  Prac- 
tically this  means  new  rubbers,  as  rubbers  seldom 
will  stand  use  a second  time.  The  product  to  be  canned 
should  be  placed  in  jars  while  the  jars  are  hot.  Rub- 
bers and  tops  should  then  be  put  in  place,  but  the 
sealing  levers  should  not  be  tightened  until  after  proc- 
essing. 

Glass  jars,  of  course,  must  be  handled  carefully  to 
prevent  breakage.  Hot  jars  should  not  be  brought  into 
contact  with  cold  metal,  stone,  or  water,  or  placed  in  a 
draft  of  cold  air.  Cold  jars  should  not  be  placed  in 
hot  water,  nor  have  hot  liquids  poured  into  them.  The 
wire  bails  of  glass-top  jars  should  not  be  so  tight  that 
the  tops  will  be  crushed  when  the  levers  are  pressed 
down  in  sealing. 

Crockery  Jars 

"^Several  types  of  crockery  jars  which  have  rubber 
top  and  clamp  spring  adjustment  for  sealing  hermetic- 


290 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


ally  may  be  purchased.  These  jars,  in  sizes  ranging 
from  1 pint  to  1 gallon,  may  be  used  successfully  in 
connection  with  the  one-period,  cold-pack  method  of 
canning.  They  should  be  handled  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  are  the  clamp-spring,  glass-top  jars.  Crockery 
jars  should  be  washed  with  special  care  since  they 
do  not  show  the  presence  of  dirt  as  do  glass  jars. 
They  should  be  heated  thoroughly  before  they  are 
filled  with  food  products. 

For  all  packs  in  crockery  jars  of  more  than  1 quart 
size,  the  time  for  sterilization  should  be  increased 
10  to  20  per  cent  over  the  sterilization  period  scheduled 
for  glass  jars  of  the  same  size. 

This  is  necessary  because  the  crockery  jars  will 
not  transmit  heat  as  rapidly  as  the  thin  glass  jars  or 
tin  cans.  On  the  other  hand,  they  do  not  cool  as 
rapidly  as  do  the  glass  jars,  thus  giving  the  product 
a little  longer  period  under  high  temperature.  It  is 
also  possible  when  using  crockery  jars  to  plunge 
them  into  cold  water  a short  while  (but  not  immedi- 
ately) after  removal  from  the  sterilizer  in  order  to 
effect  the  rapid  cooling  of  the  product.  When  this 
rapid  cooling  system  is  used  it  will  not  be  necessary 
to  increase  the  time  required  for  cooking. 

Tin  Cans 

Most  products  may  be  packed  in  plain  tin  cans. 
A few  products,  however,  should  be  packed  in  enameled 
cans  in  which  the  enamel  prevents  the  products  from 
acting  chemically  on  the  tin  coating  of  the  container. 
Enameled  cans  should  be  used  for  greens,  beets, 
strawberries,  cherries,  pumpkin,  squash,  fish,  poultry, 
and  meat. 

Tin  cans  are  practicable  for  the  home  canning  of 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


291 


fruits,  vegetables,  greens,  soups,  and  meats,  and  their 
use  is  considered  by  many  persons  to  simplify  the  opera- 
tion and  make  possible  the  accomplishment  of  more 
work  in  a given  time.  Products  packed  in  tin  cans 
are  handled  easily  in  transportation  and  storage. 

SIZES  OP  TIN  CANS 

Several  standard  sizes  of  tin  cans  are  in  common 
use  for  home  canning  purposes  and  may  be  had  in 
either  sanitary  or  cap-and-hole  type: 

NUMBER,  SIZE,  AND  DIAMETER  OF  OPENINGS  OF 

TIN  CANS 


No.  of  Size  of  Can  Diameter  of  Opening 

Can.  (Inches).  (Inches). 

1 2f  X4  2^ 

2. 2j^  or  23^ 

3 4i  X4J  2*  or  2* 

10 6AX6f  2^012^ 


TYPES  OF  TIN  CANS 

There  are  two  general  types  of  cans  on  the  market 
that  are  used  as  containers  for  food. 

The  sanitary  or  rim-seal  can  consists  of  can  and  cover 
pressed  into  a definite  shape.  That  part  of  the  cover 
that  comes  in  contact  with  the  can  is  coated  with  a 
compound  or  fitted  with  a rubber  film,  paper  gasket, 
or  ring  that  makes  a perfect  seal  when  the  cover  is 
crimped  on  the  can.  The  seal  can  be  made  only  with 
a machine  constructed  for  the  purpose.  No  heat  or 
solder  is  required  to  make  the  seal. 

Special  Rim-seal  Cans.  Several  types  of  rim-seal 
cans  differ  from  the  ordinary  sanitary  can  in  con- 
struction. They  are  made  for  use  in  special  machines. 

Cap-and-hole  Tin  Cans.  The  cap-and-hole  can  con- 


292 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


gists  of  a can  and  cover.  The  cover  carries  a rim  of 
solder.  The  cap  is  fastened  on  the  can  by  the  appli- 
cation of  heat,  as  described  later. 

' i 

USE  OF  MECHANICAL  SEALERS  FOR  SANITARY  OR  RIM-SEAL  CANS 

In  canning  in  tin  cans  to  be  sealed  with  mechanical 
sealers,  the  recipe  is  followed  as  for  glass  jars,  and  the 
boiling  water  or  sirup  poured  over  the  product.  The 
can  should  be  sealed  immediately  after  the  boiling 
liquid  is  added.  Two  distinct  operations  are  required 
to  seal  either  the  sanitary  or  the  rim-seal  can.  When 
the  can  is  placed  in  the  machine  and  clamped  into 
position  the  first  roll  is  applied,  while  the  can  is  re- 
volved. This  operation  should  be  continued  until 
the  cover  is  locked  into  position  on  the  can  and  the 
lap  joint  made.  The  second  roll  is  then  applied  and 
the  can  revolved  to  close  the  joint  and  thus  hermetic- 
ally seal  the  can.  These  mechanical  sealers  are  adjust- 
able to  handle  No.  2,  No.  2|,  No.  3,  and  No.  10  sani- 
tary cans.  Complete  instructions  are  furnished  with 
the  machines. 

TESTING  JOINT  OR  SEAL 

To  determine  if  the  machine  is  adjusted  properly, 
place  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  water  in  a can,  and 
seal.  Hold  the  sealed  can  under  the  surface  of  hot 
water  for  three  minutes.  If  air  bubbles  rise  from  the 
can,  it  indicates  that  the  seal  has  not  been  made 
properly.  Special  rim-seal  cans  should  be  handled 
according  to  instructions  of  the  manufacturer. 

SEALING  CANS 

When  tin  cans  are  used  as  containers  they  are  sealed 
by  soldering,  or,  if  of  the  sanitary  type,  by  me- 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


293 


chanical  sealing  machines,  as  described  above.  Cans 
must  be  sealed  before  they  are  processed.  If  solder 
is  used,  the  equipment  required  includes  a capping 
iron,  a tipping  copper,  soldering  flux,  a small  brush, 
a porcelain,  glass,  or  stoneware  cup  in  which  to  keep 
the  soldering  flux,  sal  ammoniac,  a few  scraps  of  zinc, 
solder,  a soft  brick  for  polishing  irons,  and  a file. 
If  a hand  sealing  machine  and  solderless  cans  are 
used,  all  other  equipment  and  material  are  unneces- 
sary. 

it  Soldering  Flux.  Soldering  flux  is  a solution  of  zinc 
in  crude  muriatic  acid.  It  is  used  for  cleaning  the 
irons  and  for  brushing  the  tin  and  solder  surfaces, 
so  that  the  solder  will  adhere  to  the  tin.  It  may  be 
made  as  follows:  Place  2 or  3 ounces  of  muriatic  acid 
(purchased  at  a drug  store)  in  a porcelain,  stoneware, 
or  glass  jar  and  add  as  much  sheet  zinc  in  small  pieces 
as  the  acid  will  dissolve;  when  the  zinc  has  dissolved, 
dilute  the  solution  to  twice  its  quantity  with  water 
and  strain  through  a piece  of  cloth.  Flux  is  always  best 
when  it  has  stood  at  least  12  to  16  hours  before  being 
used.  Keep  the  flux  well  mixed  and  free  from  dust  and 
dirt.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  spill  the  flux  on 
clothing. 

Soldering  flux  ready  for  use  may  be  purchased  at 
some  drug  stores  and  hardware  stores.  Sometimes 
a powdered  rosin  is  used  as  a substitute  for  the  flux. 
Recently  a soldering  paste  has  been  manufactured 
which  is  desirable  for  use  in  canning  work,  because 
it  is  convenient  and  clean  to  handle. 

Tinning  the  Capping  Iron.  Clean  the  iron  with  a 
file,  brick,  or  knife;  heat  it  sufficiently  to  melt  a little 
solder  in  the  sal  ammoniac  (5  or  10  cents’  worth  pur- 
chased at  a drug  store) ; then  place  the  iron  in  the  mix- 


294 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


ture  of  sal  ammoniac  and  solder,  and  rotate  it  until  the 
soldering  edge  of  the  iron  is  thoroughly  covered  with 
the  solder. 

Tinning  the  Tipping  Copper.  The  tipping  copper  is 
tinned  in  much  the  same  way  as  the  capping  iron. 
Sometimes  it  is  desirable,  however,  to  file  the  tipping 
copper  sufficiently  to  make  it  smooth  and  to  correct 
the  point.  The  copper  should  be  filed  to  nearly  a 
sharp  point.  All  particles  of  smudge,  burned  materials, 
etc.,  should  be  removed  from  the  iron  before  tinning. 
Heat  the  copper  and  rotate  the  tip  of  it  in  the  mixture 
of  sal  ammoniac  and  solder,  until  it  has  been  covered 
with  the  melted  solder  and  is  as  bright  as  silver. 

When  capping  the  full  cans,  arrange  them  in  rows 
upon  the  table  while  the  capping  and  tipping  irons 
are  in  the  fire  heating.  Take  a handful  of  solder- 
hemmed  caps  and  place  the  caps  on  all  cans  ready  to 
be  capped.  Place  a finger  on  the  venthole,  hold  the 
cap  in  place,  and  run  the  brush  containing  a small 
amount  of  flux  around  the  solder-hemmed  cap,  evenly, 
with  one  stroke  of  the  hand.  Be  careful  not  to  get 
the  flux  inside  of  the  can.  Do  this  with  all  cans  ready 
to  be  capped.  Then  take  the  capping  iron  from  the 
fire,  and  insert  the  upright  steel  in  the  center.  Hold 
the  capping  iron  above  the  cap  until  the  center  rod 
touches  the  cap  and  holds  it  in  place.  Then  bring 
the  cap  down  in  contact  with  all  four  points  of  the 
solder-hemmed  cap,  and  rotate  back  and  forth  about 
three  strokes.  Do  not  bear  down  on  the  capping 
iron.  A forward  and  backward  rotation,  if  properly 
applied,  will  solder  the  cap  in  place  perfectly.  Remove 
the  capping  iron  and  inspect  the  joint.  If  any  pin- 
holes are  found,  recap  or  repair  with  the  tipping  cop- 
per. It  may  be  necessary  to  use  a piece  of  wire  solder 


ONE-PERIOD,  COLD-PACK  CANNING 


295 


or  a waste  solder  rim  from  a cap  to  add  more  solder 
to  the  broken  places  or  pinholes  of  a cap. 

Tipping  a Tin  Can,  With  the  flux  jar  and  brush 
conveniently  at  hand,  dip  the  brush  in  the  flux  and 
strike  the  venthole  a side  stroke  lightly  with  the  brush 
saturated  with  flux.  Place  the  point  of  the  wire  solder 
over  the  venthole.  Place  upon  this  the  point  of  the 
hot,  bright,  tipping  copper.  Press  down  with  a rotary 
motion  and  remove  quickly.  (If  a waste  solder- 
hemmed  cap  rim  is  available,  this  may  be  used  instead 
of  the  wire  solder.) 

With  a little  practice  a smooth,  perfect  joint  is 
easily  made. 

SUGGESTIONS  ON  ORDERING  TIN  CANS 

In  buying  hole-and-cap  cans  it  always  is  necessary 
to  state  whether  you  desire  plain  tin  or  enameled 
(lacquered)  cans.  In  buying  caps  always  ask  for  sol- 
der-hemmed caps  and  give  the  diameter  of  the  can 
opening.  For  whole  fruits  and  vegetables,  cans  with 
2iJV-inch  or  even  larger  openings  are  preferable.  Since 
the  size  of  the  can  opening  varies,  and  ordinarily  it 
will  not  be  advisable  to  have  more  than  one  capping 
iron,  it  is  recommended  that  the  larger  size  (2i^-inch) 
capping  iron  be  purchased. 


U.  S.  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FARMERS’  BULLETIN  NO.  841 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  IN  THE 

HOME 

With  Recipes  for  Cooking 


INTRODUCTION 

One  of  the  most  prominent  features  of  the  food  con- 
servation program  of  European  countries  has  been  the 
universal  drying  of  fruits  and  vegetables.  The  sur- 
plus vegetables  in  the  city  markets  were  forced  by  the 
Governments  into  large  municipal  drying  plants. 
Community  driers  were  established  in  the  trucking 
regions,  and  even  itinerant  drying  machines  were  sent 
from  farm  to  farm,  drying  the  vegetables  which  other- 
wise would  have  gone  to  waste.  In  addition,  large 
quantities  of  dried  vegetables  from  Canada  and  this 
country  were  shipped  to  France  during  the  last  two 
years,  and  there  is  a possibility  that  dried  fruits  and 
vegetables  may  continue  to  be  shipped  abroad  in  con- 
siderable quantities,  to  supplement  the  concentrated 
food  diet  of  the  men  in  the  trenches. 

The  drying  of  vegetables  may  seem  strange  to  the 
present  generation,  but  to  our  grandmothers  it  was  no 
novelty.  Many  housewives  even  to-day  prefer  dried 

296 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


297 


sweet  corn  to  the  product  canned  by  the  old  method, 
and  say  also  that  dried  pumpkin  and  squash  are  ex- 
cellent for  pie  making.  Snap  beans  often  are  strung 
on  threads  and  dried  above  the  stove.  Cherries  and 
raspberries  still  are  dried  on  bits  of  bark  for  use  instead 
of  raisins.  In  fact,  many  of  the  everyday  foodstuffs 
already  are  dried  at  some  stage  of  their  preparation 
for  market.  The  common  dried  fruits,  such  as  prunes, 
raisins,  figs,  dates,  and  apples,  are  staples  in  the 
world’s  markets,  while  beans  and  other  legumes, 
tea,  coffee,  cocoa,  and  various  manufactured  foods, 
like  starch,  tapioca,  macaroni,  etc.,  are  dried  either  in 
the  sun  and  wind  or  in  specially  constructed  driers. 

Even  though  the  drying  of  fruits  and  vegetables 
as  practiced  a few  decades  ago  on  many  farms  has 
become  practically  a “ lost  art,”  the  present  food 
situation  doubtless  will  cause  a marked  stimulation 
of  drying  as  a means  of  conserving  the  food  supply. 
This  country  is  producing  large  quantities  of  perish- 
able foods  this  year,  which  should  be  saved  for  storage, 
canned,  or  properly  dried.  Drying  is  not  a panacea 
for  the  entire  waste  evil,  nor  should  it  take  the  place 
of  storing  or  canning  to  any  considerable  extent  where 
proper  storage  facilities  are  available  or  tin  cans  or 
glass  jars  can  be  obtained  readily  and  at  a low  cost. 

The  advantages  of  drying  vegetables  are  not  so  appar- 
ent for  the  farm  home  as  they  are  for  the  town  or  city 
household,  which  has  no  root  cellar  or  other  place  in 
which  to  store  fresh  vegetables.  For  the  farmer’s 
wife  the  new  methods  of  canning  probably  will  be  better 
than  sun  drying,  which  requires  a somewhat  longer 
time.  But  shorter  methods  of  drying  are  available, 
and  the  dried  product  holds  an  advantage  in  that 
usually  it  requires  fewer  jars,  cans,  or  other  containers 


298 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


than  do  canned  fruits  or  vegetables;  also  dried  material 
can  be  stored  in  receptacles  which  can  not  be  used  for 
canning.  Then,  too,  canned  fruit  and  vegetables 
freeze  and  can  not  be  shipped  as  conveniently  in  winter. 
Dried  vegetables  can  be  compacted  and  shipped  with 
a minimum  of  risk. 

To  the  housewife  in  the  town  the  drying  of  vegetables 
and  fruits  presents  special  advantages.  During  the 
season  when  the  market  is  oversupplied  locally  and 
prices  are  low  she  can  lay  in  a stock,  dry  it,  and  put 
it  away  for  a winter’s  emergency  without  its  taking  up 
much  of  the  needed  small  storage  space  in  her  home. 
If  she  is  accustomed  to  canning  her  fruit  and  vegetables 
and  finds  she  can  not  secure  jars  or  tin  cans,  she  can 
easily  resort  to  drying. 

With  simple  and  inexpensive  facilities,  all  house- 
wives can  save  quantities  of  food  which  are  too  small 
conveniently  to  can.  A few  sweet  potatoes  or  apples 
or  peas  or  even  a single  turnip  can  be  dried  and  saved. 
Even  when  very  small  quantities  are  dried  at  a time, 
a quantity  sufficient  for  a meal  will  soon  be  secured. 
Small  lots  of  several  dried  vegetables,  such  as  cabbage, 
carrots,  turnips,  potatoes,  and  onions,  can  be  com- 
bined to  advantage  for  soups  and  stews. 

This  bulletin  records  some  of  the  points  brought 
out  in  a preliminary  investigation  of  the  home  drying 
of  fruits  and  vegetables  which  has  been  conducted  by 
the  department. 

Principles  and  Methods  of  Drying 

Three  main  ways  of  drying  are  applicable  in  the 
home  manufacture  of  dried  fruits  and  vegetables, 
namely,  sun  drying,  drying  by  artificial  heat,  and  dry- 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


299 


ing  by  air  blast.  These,  of  course,  may  be  com- 
bined. In  general,  most  fruits  or  vegetables,  to  be  dried 
quickly,  must  first  be  shredded  or  cut  into  slices,  be- 
cause many  are  too  large  to  dry  quickly  or  are  covered 
with  a skin,  the  purpose  of  which  is  to  prevent  drying 
out.  When  freshly  cut  fruits  or  vegetables  are  to  be 
dried  by  means  of  artificial  heat,  they  should  be  exposed 
first  to  gentle  heat  and  later  to  the  higher  temperatures. 
If  the  air  applied  at  the  outset  is  of  too  high  a tempera- 
ture, the  cut  surfaces  of  the  sliced  fruits  or  vegetables 
become  hard,  or  scorched,  covering  the  juicy  interior 
so  that  it  will  not  dry  out.  Generally  it  is  not  desirable 
that  the  air  temperature  in  drying  should  go  above 
140°  to  150°  F.,  and  it  is  better  to  keep  it  well  below 
this  point.  Insects  and  insect  eggs  are  killed  by 
exposure  to  heat  of  this  temperature. 

It  is  important  to  know  the  degree  of  heat  in  the  drier, 
and  this  can  not  be  determined  very  accurately  except 
by  using  a thermometer.  Inexpensive  oven  thermom- 
eters can  be  found  on  the  market,  or  an  ordinary 
chemical  thermometer  can  be  suspended  in  the  drier. 
If  a thermometer  is  not  used,  the  greatest  care  should 
be  given  to  the  regulation  of  the  heat.  The  tempera- 
ture in  the  drier  rises  rather  quickly  and  the  product 
may  scorch  unless  close  attention  is  given.  The  reason 
sun  drying  is  popularly  believed  to  give  fruits  and 
vegetables  a sweeter  flavor  lies  probably  in  the  fact 
that  in  the  sun  they  never  are  scorched,  whereas  in 
the  oven  or  over  a stove,  scorching  is  likely  to  occur 
unless  careful  attention  is  given  them. 

Drying  of  certain  products  can  be  completed  in  some 
driers  within  2 or  3 hours.  The  time  required  for  dry- 
ing vegetables  varies.  However,  it  can  be  determined 
easily  by  a little  experience  on  the  part  of  the  person 


300 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


doing  the  drying.  The  material  should  be  stirred 
or  turned  several  times  during  the  drying  in  order  to 
secure  a uniform  product. 

The  ability  to  judge  accurately  as  to  when  fruit  has 
reached  the  proper  condition  for  removal  from  drier 
can  be  gained  only  by  experience.  When  sufficiently 
dried  it  should  be  so  dry  that  it  is  impossible  to  press 
water  out  of  the  freshly  cut  ends  of  the  pieces,  and 
will  not  show  any  of  the  natural  grain  of  the  fruit  on 
being  broken,  and  yet  not  so  dry  that  it  will  snap  or 
crackle.  It  should  be  leathery  and  pliable. 

When  freshly  cut  fruits  or  vegetables  are  spread 
out  they  immediately  begin  to  evaporate  moisture 
into  the  air  around  them,  and  if  in  a closed  box  will 
very  soon  saturate  the  air  with  moisture.  This  will 
slow  down  the  rate  of  drying  and  lead  to  the  formation 
of  molds.  If  a current  of  dry  air  is  blown  over  them 
continually,  the  water  in  them  will  evaporate  steadily 
until  they  are  dry  and  crisp.  Certain  products,  espe- 
cially raspberries,  should  not  be  dried  hard,  because  if 
too  much  moisture  is  removed  from  them  they  will 
not  resume  their  original  form  when  soaked  in  water. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  material  must  be  dried  suffi- 
ciently or  it  wiU  not  keep,  but  will  mold.  Too  great 
stress  can  not  be  laid  upon  this  point.  This  does  not 
mean  that  the  product  must  be  baked  or  scorched,  but 
simply  that  it  must  be  dried  uniformly  through  and 
through. 

It  will  be  found  advisable  also  to  “ condition  ” 
practically  all  dried  vegetables  and  fruits.  This  is 
best  done  in  a small  way  by  placing  the  material  in 
boxes  and  pouring  it  from  one  box  into  another  once  a 
day  for  3 or  4 days,  so  as  to  mix  it  thoroughly  and  give 
to  the  whole  mass  an  even  degree  of  moisture.  If  the 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


301 


material  is  found  to  be  too  moist,  it  should  be  returned 
to  the  drying  trays  for  a short  drying. 

Preparation  of  Food  for  the  Drier 

In  large  factories  the  vegetables  are  put  through 
special  shredders  and  sheers  not  adapted  for  home 
use,  but  convenient  and  inexpensive  machines  which 
can  be  used  to  great  advantage  are  on  the  market. 
The  meat  grinder  with  its  special  disks  can  be  used 
in  certain  cases;  the  common  kraut  sheer  will  cut 
into  slices  large  vegetables  such  as  potatoes  and  cab- 
bage; and  the  rotary  hand  sheer  is  adapted  for  use  on 
a very  wide  range  of  material.  A large  sharp  kitchen 
knife  may  be  used  when  a handier  cutting  device  is 
not  available.  Care  should  be  taken  that  the  material 
is  shced  thin  enough  but  not  too  thin.  From  an 
eighth  to  a quarter  of  an  inch  is  a fair  thickness  for 
most  of  the  common  vegetables  to  be  shced  and  dried. 
Very  small  slices  or  strips  dry  more  quickly  because 
they  expose  a greater  surface  to  the  air  than  do  larger 
cut  pieces.  But  if  cut  too  fine  they  are  more  difficult 
to  handle  in  drying,  appear  to  lose  somewhat  in  flavor, 
and  can  not  be  used  so  advantageously  to  make 
dishes  like  those  prepared  from  the  fresh  foods. 

The  slicing  machines  are  not  suitable  for  children’s 
use,  for  they  will  cut  fingers  as  mercilessly  as  they  do 
vegetables  and  fruits,  and  even  adults  should  exercise 
great  caution  in  their  use  in  the  home. 

Cleanliness  is  as  necessary  in  the  preparation  of 
vegetables  and  fruits  for  drying  as  in  their  preparation 
for  canning,  perhaps  even  more  so.  To  secure  a fine 
quality  of  dried  products  much  depends  upon  having 
the  vegetables  absolutely  fresh,  young,  tender,  and  per- 
fectly clean.  If  steel  knives  are  used  in  paring  and 


302 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


cutting,  have  them  clean  and  bright  so  as  not  to  dis- 
color the  vegetable.  The  earthy  smell  and  flavor  will 
cling  to  root  crops  if  they  are  not  washed  thoroughly 
before  slicing,  and  one  decayed  root  may  flavor  several 
kettles  of  soup  if  the  slices  from  it  are  scattered  through 
a whole  batch  of  dried  material.  High-grade  dried 
“ root  ” vegetables  can  only  be  made  from  peeled 
roots. 

In  the  preparation  of  large  quantities  of  potatoes  a 
potato  peeler  may  be  utilized.  The  potatoes  are  thrown 
by  centrifugal  force  against  a rough  surface  which, 
under  streams  of  water  provided  by  the  perforated  tin 
container  above,  nicks  off  the  outer  skin  and  leaves  only 
the  eyes  to  be  dug  out. 

Blanching  of  vegetables  is  considered  desirable  by 
some  housekeepers,  although  it  is  not  strictly  essential 
to  successful  drying.  It  is  claimed  that  the  blanch 
gives  a more  thorough  cleaning,  removes  the  strong 
odor  and  flavor  from  certain  kinds  of  vegetables,  and 
softens  and  loosens  the  fiber.  This  allows  the  moisture 
in  the  vegetable  to  evaporate  more  quickly  and  uni- 
formly. It  also  quickly  coagulates  the  albuminous 
matter  in  the  vegetables,  which  helps  to  hold  in  the 
natural  flavors.  Blanching  consists  of  plunging  the 
vegetable  into  boiling  water  for  a short  time.  Use  a 
wire  basket  or  cheese-cloth  bag  for  this.  After  blanch- 
ing the  required  number  of  minutes,  drain  well  and 
remove  surface  moisture  from  vegetables  by  placing 
between  two  towels  or  by  exposing  to  the  sun  and  air 
for  a short  time. 

Apparatus  for  Drying 

The  drying  of  fruits  and  vegetables  in  the  sun  is  a 
simple  process  if  they  have  been  prepared  properly. 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


303 


In  its  simplest  form  such  drying  consists  in  spreading 
the  freshly  prepared  slices  or  pieces  on  sheets  of  paper, 
or,  if  there  is  danger  of  the  product's  sticking,  spreading 
on  old  pieces  of  muslin  held  down  with  stones.  Bright, 
hot  sunny  days  are  chosen  for  this  work,  and  a close 
watch  is  kept  to  see  that  no  rain  or  dew  wets  the  prod- 
uct. If  flies  and  other  insects  are  abundant,  a mosquito 
bar  is  thrown  over  the  product.  Once  or  twice  a day 
the  slices  are  stirred  or  turned  over  with  the  hand,  and 
the  thin  ones  which  dry  first  are  taken  out.  Sun  dry- 
ing has  much  to  recommend  it,  since  it  requires  no 
expenditure  of  fuel  and  there  is  little  danger  of  the 
product  becoming  overheated.  Dust,  however,  gathers 
on  the  product,  and,  unless  it  is  protected  carefully, 
flies,  and  especially  certain  insects  which  habitually 
attack  dried  fruits,  will  lay  their  eggs  upon  it.  These 
eggs  later  will  hatch  out,  and  the  worms,  or  larvse, 
will  riddle  the  dried  fruits  or  vegetables,  rendering 
them  unfit  for  the  table. 

Fruits  and  vegetables,  when  dried  in  the  sun,  gen- 
erally are  spread  on  large  trays  of  uniform  size,  so 
constructed  that  they  can  be  stacked  one  on  top  of  the 
other  and  protected  from  rain  by  means  of  a cover 
made  of  oilcloth,  canvas,  or  roofing  paper. 

A very  cheap  tray  can  be  made  of  strips  of  lumber 
I inch  thick  and  2 inches  wide,  which  form  the  sides 
and  ends,  and  lath  which  is  nailed  on  to  form  the  bot- 
tom. Spaces  I inch  wide  should  be  left  between  the 
laths  for  ventilation,  and  the  trays  can  be  raised  off 
the  ground  by  placing  them  on  poles  or  an  improvised 
trestle.  As  laths  are  4 feet  long,  these  lath  trays  are 
most  economical  of  material  when  made  4 feet  in 
length. 

Better  but  more  expensive  trays  can  be  made  by 


304 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


substituting  galvanized-wire  screen,  f or  | inch  mesh, 
for  the  laths,  in  which  case  the  most  economical  size 
would  depend  upon  the  width  of  the  wire  screen 
obtainable. 

A cheap  and  very  satisfactory  drier  for  use  over  the 
kitchen  stove  can  be  made  by  any  handy  boy  or  car- 
penter from  a small  amount  of  small-mesh  galvanized- 
wire  netting  and  a number  of  laths  or  strips  of  wood 
about  I inch  thick  and  2 inches  wide.  The  screen 
may  be  tacked  directly  on  the  framework  to  make  the 
drying  shelves,  or  the  framework  can  be  made  to 
support  separate  trays.  By  using  two  laths  nailed 
together,  the  framework  can  be  stiffened,  and  larger 
trays  made  if  desirable.  This  form  or  any  of  the 
lighter  makes  of  driers  can  be  suspended  from  the 
ceihng  over  the  kitchen  range  or  over  the  oil,  gasoline, 
or  gas  stove,  and  it  will  utilize  the  hot  air  which  rises 
during  the  cooking  hour.  It  can  be  raised  out  of  the 
way  or  swung  to  one  side  by  a crane  made  of  lath, 
when  the  stove  is  required  for  cooking  purposes,  and 
lowered  or  swung  back  to  utilize  the  heat  which 
otherwise  would  be  wasted,  when  the  top  of  the  stove 
is  not  in  use. 

Another  homemade  cookstove  drier  that  can  be 
used  on  a wood  or  coal  range  or  a kerosene  stove  can 
be  made  easily  and  cheaply.  Dimensions:  Base  24 
by  16  inches;  height  36  inches.  A base  6 inches  high 
is  made  of  galvanized  sheet  iron.  This  base  slightly 
flares  toward  the  bottom  and  has  two  small  openings 
for  ventilation  in  each  of  the  four  sides.  On  the  base 
rests  a box-like  frame  made  of  1 or  inch  strips  of 
wood.  The  two  sides  are  braced  with  IJ-inch  strips 
which  serve  as  cleats  on  which  the  trays  in  the  drier 
rest.  These  are  placed  at  intervals  of  3 inches.  The 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


305 


frame  is  covered  with  tin  or  galvanized  sheet  iron  which 
is  tacked  to  the  wooden  strips  of  the  frame.  Thin 
strips  of  wood  may  be  used  instead  of  tin  or  sheet 
iron.  The  door  is  fitted  on  small  hinges  and  fastened 
with  a thumb  latch.  It  opens  wide  so  that  the  trays 
can  be  removed  easily.  The  bottom  of  the  drier  is 
made  of  a piece  of  perforated  galvanized  sheet  iron. 
Two  inches  above  the  bottom,  is  placed  a solid  sheet  of 
galvanized  iron  which  is  3 inches  less  in  length  and  width 
than  the  bottom.  This  sheet  rests  on  two  wires  fastened 
to  the  sides  of  the  drier.  This  prevents  the  direct  heat 
from  coming  in  contact  with  the  product  and  serves 
as  a radiator  to  spread  the  heat  more  evenly. 

The  first  tray  is  placed  3 inches  above  the  radiator. 
The  trays  rest  on  the  cleats  3 inches  apart.  A drier 
of  the  given  dimensions  will  hold  8 trays.  The  frame 
of  the  tray  is  made  of  1-inch  strips  on  which  is  tacked 
galvanized  screen  wire,  which  forms  the  bottom  of 
the  tray.  The  tray  is  21  by  15  inches,  making  it  3 
inches  less  in  depth  than  the  drier.  The  lowest  tray 
when  placed  in  the  drier  is  pushed  to  the  back,  leaving 
the  3-inch  space  in  front.  The  next  tray  is  placed  even 
with  the  front,  leaving  a 3-inch  space  in  the  back. 
The  other  trays  alternate  in  the  same  way.  This  per- 
mits the  current  of  heated  air  to  pass  around  and  over 
the  trays.  A ventilator  opening,  about  2 inches  wide 
and  6 inches  long,  is  left  in  the  top  of  the  drier,  through 
which  the  moist  air  may  pass  away. 

This  principle  of  construction  is  followed  so  that 
currents  of  heated  air  will  pass  over  the  product  as 
well  as  up  through  it,  gathering  the  moisture  and  pass- 
ing away.  The  movement  of  the  current  of  air  induces 
a more  rapid  and  uniform  drying.  The  upper  trays 
can  be  shifted  to  the  lower  part  of  the  drier,  and  the 


306 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


lower  trays  to  the  upper  part  as  drying  proceeds,  so 
as  to  dry  the  products  uniformly  throughout. 

Still  another  home  drier  is  the  cookstove  oven. 
Bits  of  food,  left  overs,  especially  sweet  corn,  can  be 
dried  on  plates  in  a very  slow  oven  or  on  the  back  of 
the  cookstove  and  saved  for  winter  use.  If  the 
oven  is  very  warm  the  door  should  be  left  ajar  and  the 
temperature  of  the  oven  often  noted.  Trays  for  use 
in  the  oven  can  be  made  from  a convenient-sized  gal- 
vanized wire  screen  by  bending  up  the  edges  1 or  2 
inches. 

Cookstove  driers  on  the  market  are  of  two  types. 
One  type  consists  of  a series  of  trays  upon  which 
the  material  to  be  dried  is  spread.  These  trays  are 
placed  in  a framework  one  above  the  other,  forming 
a compartment  through  which  the  heated  air  rises, 
carrying  off  the  moisture.  The  second  type  consists 
of  a shallow  flat  metal  box  filled  with  water  and  de- 
signed so  that  one  end  can  rest  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
and  the  other  on  a leg  reaching  to  the  floor.  It  also 
may  be  supported  over  a lamp. 

The  use  of  an  electric  fan  in  facilitating  drying  can 
be  highly  recommended.  This  is  feasible  for  those 
who  already  own  a fan.  It  has  been  found  that  many 
sliced  vegetables  and  fruits  placed  in  long  trays  3 
by  1 foot  and  stacked  in  two  tiers,  end  to  end,  before 
an  electric  fan,  can  be  dried  to  the  requisite  dryness 
within  24  hours.  Some  require  much  less  time.  For 
instance,  sliced  string  beans  and  shredded  sweet  pota- 
toes will  dry,  before  a fan  running  at  a moderate  speed, 
within  a few  hours.  In  many  cities  the  electric  fan 
will  cost  not  more  than  one-fourth  of  a cent  an  hour 
to  run.  The  fan  should  be  placed  close  to  the  stack 
of  traj^s,  and  they  should  not  be  filled  so  full  that 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


307 


the  air  can  not  pass  freely  through  them.  The  fan 
method  has  a marked  advantage  in  that  the  product 
keeps  cool  owing  to  evaporation  while  it  is  being 
dried,  thus  tending  to  retain  the  color  and  eliminate 
spoilage. 


Directions  for  Drying 

Many  of  the  products  for  which  directions  are  given 
here  may  be  dried  either  with  or  without  preliminary 
blanching.  In  such  cases  both  methods  are  described. 
Alternative  methods  are  designated  by  letters. 

Sweet  Corn 

Only  very  young  and  tender  corn  should  be  used  for 
drying,  and  it  should  be  prepared  at  once  after  gath- 
ering. 

(а)  Cook  in  boiling  water  2 to  5 minutes,  long  enough 
to  set  the  milk.  Cut  the  kernels  from  the  cob  with  a 
sharp  knife,  taking  care  not  to  cut  off  pieces  of  the  cob. 
Spread  thinly  on  trays,  and  place  in  position  to  dry. 
Stir  occasionally  until  dry. 

(б)  Boil  or  steam  on  the  cob  8 to  10  minutes,  to  set 
the  milk.  To  improve  flavor,  a teaspoon  of  salt  to  a 
gallon  of  water  may  be  used.  Drain  well  and  cut 
corn  from  cob,  using  a very  sharp  and  flexible  knife. 
Cut  grains  flne,  only  half  way  down  to  the  cob,  and 
scrape  out  the  remainder  of  grain,  bring  careful  not 
to  scrape  off  any  of  the  chaff  next  to  the  cob.  Dry 
from  3 to  4 hours  at  110°  to  145°  F.  When  fleld  corn 
is  used,  good,  plump  roasting-ear  stage  is  the  proper 
degree  of  ripeness.  A pound  of  dried  corn  per  dozen 
ears  is  an  average  yield. 

(c)  The  corn  may  be  dried  in  the  sun.  Dry  in 
oven  10  to  15  minutes,  and  finish  drying  in  the  sun. 


308 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Sun  drying,  of  course,  is  not  satisfactory  in  moist 
weather. 

Pack  in  cartons  or  boxes  for  a few  days  to  “ condi- 
tion,” as  described  on  page  300. 

String  or  Snap  Beans 

All  varieties  of  string  beans  can  be  dried,  but  only 
beans  in  ideal  condition  for  table  use  should  be  selected 
for  this  purpose. 

(а)  Wash;  remove  stem,  tip  and  “ strings.”  Cut  or 
break  the  beans  into  pieces  | to  1 inch  long,  and  place 
on  trays,  and  dry.  They  also  can  be  run  through  the 
sheer  and  then  dried  quickly. 

(б)  Prepare  as  directed  above,  but  instead  of  cut- 
ting the  beans,  thread  them  on  coarse,  strong  thread, 
making  long  “ necklaces  ” of  them,  and  hang  them 
above  the  stove  or  out  of  doors  until  dry.  An  old- 
fashioned  recipe  calls  for  boiling  the  pods  until  nearly 
cooked  through,  before  drying. 

(c)  Wash  and  string  beans  carefully.  The  very 
young  and  tender  beans  can  be  dried  whole.  Those 
that  are  full  grown  should  be  cut  in  J to  1 inch  lengths 
with  vegetable  sheer  or  a sharp  knife.  It  is  better  to 
cut  beans  than  to  snap  them.  They  are  then  put  in 
a bag  of  cheese-cloth  or  in  a wire  basket  and  blanched 
in  boiling  water  for  6 to  10  minute,  depending  on  the 
maturity  of  the  bean.  One-half  teaspoon  of  soda  may 
be  added  to  each  gallon  of  boiling  water  to  help  set  the 
green  color  in  the  beans.  Remove  surface  moisture 
by  placing  between  two  towels  or  by  exposing  to  the 
sun  and  air  for  a short  time.  Dry  young  string  beans 
2 hours,  more  matured  beans  3 hours.  Begin  drying 
at  temperature  of  110°  F.  and  raise  temperature  grad- 
ually to  145°  F. 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


309 


Wax  beans  are  dried  in  the  same  manner  as  the  green 
string  beans. 

“ Condition  ” as  described  on  page  300. 

Lima  Beans 

Lima  beans  can  be  shelled  from  the  pod  and  dried. 
If  gathered  before  maturity,  when  young  and  tender, 
wash  and  blanch  from  5 to  10  minutes.  Length  of 
time  for  blanching  depends  upon  size  and  maturity 
of  beans.  Remove  surface  moisture  and  dry  from  3 
to  3§  hours  at  same  temperature  as  string  beans. 

Dry  Shelled  Beans  (Important  in  the  South) 

Beans  of  different  kinds,  after  maturing  and  drying 
on  the  vines,  can  be  treated  as  follows:  Shell,  wash, 
spread  in  thin  layers  on  the  trays  of  the  drier  and  heat 
10  minutes,  beginning  at  160°  F.  and  gradually  raising 
the  temperature  to  180°  F.  This  high  temperature 
is  for  the  purpose  of  destroying  all  insect  eggs  that 
may  be  on  the  beans.  Cowpeas  or  any  field  pea  can 
be  treated  in  the  same  way.  Cool  and  store  carefully. 
It  might  be  added  that  the  heating  of  the  bean  or 
pea  destroys  its  vitality.  When  so  treated  it  can 
not  be  used  for  seed. 

Okra 

(а)  Small,  tender  pods  sometimes  are  strung  on  a 
stout  thread  and  hung  over  the  stove  to  dry.  If  dried 
in  that  manner,  heat  in  oven  before  storing  on  trays. 

(б)  Wash,  blanch  3 minutes  in  boiling  soda  water, 
and  dry  2 to  3 hours  at  110°  to  140°  F.  Use  | teaspoon 
soda  to  a gallon  of  water.  Dry  young  and  small  tender 
pods  whole.  Older  pods  should  be  cut  in  J-inch  slices. 


310 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Peppers 

(а)  Peppers  may  be  dried  by  splitting  on  one  side, 
removing  seed,  drying  in  the  air,  and  finishing  the  dry- 
ing in  the  drier  at  140°  F.  A more  satisfactory  method 
is  to  place  peppers  in  biscuit  pan  in  oven,  and  heat  until 
skin  blisters,  or  to  steam  peppers  until  skin  softens, 
peel,  split  in  half,  take  out  seed,  and  dry  at  110°  to 
140°  F.  In  drying  thick-fleshed  peppers  like  the  pi- 
mento, do  not  increase  heat  too.  quickly,  but  dry  slowly 
and  evenly. 

(б)  Small  varieties  of  red  peppers  may  be  spread  in 
the  sun  until  wilted  and  the  drying  finished  in  the 
drier,  or  they  may  be  dried  entirely  in  the  sun. 

(c)  Peppers  often  are  dried  whole.  If  they  are  large 
they  can  be  strung  on  stout  thread;  if  small,  the  whole 
plant  can  be  hung  up  to  dry. 

Peas 

(а)  Shell  and  spread  on  trays  and  dry. 

(б)  Shell  full-grown  peas  with  nonedible  pod,  blanch 
the  peas  from  3 to  5 minutes,  remove  surplus  moisture, 
spread  in  single  layer  on  trays,  and  dry  from  3 to  3| 
hours.  Begin  drying  at  110°  F.,  raising  temperature 
very  slowly  in  about  1§  hours  to  145°  F.  Continue 
drying  1|  or  2 hours  at  145°  F. 

(c)  Shell  full-grown  peas,  passing  through  a meat 
grinder,  spread  on  trays,  and  dry.  Whole  peas  take 
longer  to  dry,  but  when  cooked  they  resemble  fresh 
peas.  The  ground  peas  dry  more  quickly  but  make  a 
product  which  can  be  used  successfully  only  in  the 
preparation  of  soup  or  pur^e. 

(d)  When  drying  the  very  young  and  tender  sugar 
peas,  use  the  pod  also.  Wash  and  cut  in  |-inch  pieces. 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


311 


Blanch  in  boiling  water  6 minutes.  Remove  surplus 
moisture  and  dry  the  same  length  of  time  and  at  the 
same  temperature  as  string  beans.  It  is  not  necessary 
to  use  soda  when  blanching  peas. 

Pack  away  and  “ condition  ” as  described  on  page  300. 

Garden  Beets,  Onions,  Leeks,  Carrots,  Turnips,  Parsnips, 

^ j Cabbage 

Beets:  (a)  Select  young,  quickly  grown,  tender 
beets.  Wash,  peel,  slice  about  | inch  thick,  and  dry. 

(6)  Boil  the  whole  beets,  unskinned,  until  a little  more 
than  three-fourths  done.  Dip  in  cold  water,  peel, 
and  slice  into  | or  | inch  slices.  Dry  2j  to  3 hours 
at  110°  to  150°  F. 

Turnips:  Turnips  should  be  treated  in  the  same 
way  as  beets. 

Carrots : Varieties  having  a large,  woody  core  should  ' 
be  avoided. 

(a)  Wash,  peel,  slice  lengthwise  into  pieces  about  | 
inch  thick,  and  dry. 

(b)  Clean,  scrape,  or  pare,  and  slice  into  |-inch  slices. 
Blanch  6 minutes,  remove  surface  moisture,  and  dry 
2|  to  3 hours.  Begin  drying  at  110°  F.  and  raise 
temperature  gradually  to  150°  F. 

Parsnips,  kohl-rabi,  celeriac,  and  salsify  are  dried 
by  the  same  methods. 

Onions:  (a)  Select  well-matured  onions  and  remove 
the  outside  papery  covering.  Cut  off  tops  and  roots. 
Slice  into  |-inch  pieces  and  dry  quickly.  Store  in  a 
light-proof  container  to  avoid  discoloration. 

(b)  Wash,  peel,  and  slice  onions  into  | to  |-inch  shces. 
To  avoid  any  unpleasantness,  peel  and  slice  while 
holding  under  water.  Blanch  in  boiling  water  5 
minutes.  Remove  surface  moisture  and  dry  2|  to 


312 


ADVICE  TO  TBE  HOUSEWIFE 


3 hours,  beginning  at  110®  F.  and  raising  temperature 
gradually  to  140°  F. 

Leeks  are  handled  in  a similar  manner,  cut  into 
|-inch  strips  and  dried. 

Cabbage:  (o)  Select  well-developed  heads  of  cabbage 
and  remove  all  loose  outside  leaves.  Split  the  cabbage, 
remove  the  hard,  woody  core,  slice  the  remainder  of 
the  head  with  a kraut  cutter  or  sheer,  and  dry. 

(b)  Shred  or  cut  into  strips  a few  inches  long. 
Blanch  10  minutes,  drain,  remove  surface  moisture, 
and  dry  3 hours  at  110°  to  145°  F. 

All  these  products  should  be  “ conditioned  ” as 
described  on  page  300. 

Spinach  and  Parsley 

Spinach  that  is  in  prime  condition  for  greens  should 
be  prepared  by  careful  washing  and  by  removing  the 
leaves  from  the  roots.  Spread  the  leaves  on  trays  to 
dry  thoroughly.  Slicing  will  greatly  facilitate  drying. 

Parsley  should  be  treated  in  the  same  way  as  spinach. 

Beet  Tops,  Swiss  Chard,  Celery,  and  Rhubarb 

Beet  tops:  Tops  of  young  beets  in  suitable  condition 
for  greens  should  be  selected  and  washed  carefully. 
Both  the  leafstalk  and  the  blade  should  be  cut  into- 
sections  about  J inch  long,  spread  on  screens,  and 
dried. 

Swiss  chard  and  celery  should  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way  as  beet  tops.  Celery  also  may  be  prepared 
in  the  same  way  as  pumpkins  and  summer  squash. 

Rhubarb:  Choose  young  and  succulent  growth. 
Prepare  as  for  stewing,  by  skinning  the  leafstalks 
and  cutting  into  pieces  about  | inch  to  | inch  in  length. 
Do  not  use  the  blade  of  the  leaf. 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


313 


All  these  products  should  be  “ conditioned " as 
described  on  page  300. 

Irish  Potatoes 

Select  good,  sound,  well-matured  potatoes. 

(a)  Wash  and  boil  or  steam  until  nearly  done.  Peel 
and  pass  through  a meat  grinder  or  a potato  ricer. 
Collect  the  shreds  in  layers  on  a tray  and  dry  until 
brittle.  If  toasted  slightly  in  an  oven  when  dry,  the 
flavor  is  improved  somewhat. 

(b)  Boil  or  steam  until  nearly  done,  peel  as  above, 
cut  into  |-inch  slices,  spread  on  trays,  and  dry  until 
brittle. 

Peeling  may  be  omitted,  but  the  product  will  be 
very  much  inferior  in  flavor. 

Sweet  Potatoes 

Select  sound,  mature  roots. 

(а)  Wash,  boil  until  nearly  done,  peel,  and  run 
through  the  meat  chopper.  Spread  on  trays  and  dry 
until  brittle. 

(б)  Treat  as  above,  but  slice  instead  of  running 
through  the  meat  chopper. 

(c)  Wash,  peel,  slice,  spread  on  trays,  and  dry.  A 
somewhat  brighter  product  will  result  if  the  sliced 
potato  is  dipped  in  salt  water  just  before  drying. 

Cauliflower 

Clean,  divide  in  small  bunches,  blanch  6 minutes, 
and  dry  2 to  3 hours  at  110°  to  145°  F.  Cauliflower 
will  turn  very  dark  when  drying,  but  will  regain  part 
of  the  color  in  soaking  and  cooking.  Dried  cauli- 
flower is  especially  good  in  soups  and  omelets. 

Brussels  sprouts  may  be  handled  in  a similar  way, 
but^add  a pinch  of  soda  to  the  blanching  water. 


314 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Pumpkins  and  Squash 

(а)  Select  sound,  well-grown  specimens.  Cut  into 
strips;  peel  these;  remove  all  seeds  and  the  soft  part 
surrounding  them.  Cut  strips  into  smaller  bits  not  over 
I inch  thick  and  2 inches  long,  and  dry. 

(б)  Pare  and  cut  into  about  |-inch  strips  and  blanch 
3 minutes.  Remove  surface  moisture  and  dry  slowly 
from  3 to  4 hours,  raising  temperature  from  110® 
to  140®  F. 

Pack  and  “ condition  ” as  described  on  page  300. 

Soup  Mixtures 

Each  vegetable  used  in  the  soup  mixture  is  prepared 
and  dried  separately.  They  are  put  together  in  pro- 
portions desired,  the  preferred  flavoring  vegetables 
predominating.  A combination  of  several  vegetables 
makes  the  most  desirable  soup  mixture.  Those  most 
often  used  are  carrots,  cabbage,  onions,  celery,  pota- 
toes, and  okra. 

Herbs 

Celery  tops,  parsley,  mint,  sage,  and  herbs  of  all 
kinds  need  not  be  blanched,  but  should  be  washed  well 
and  dried  in  the  sun  or  in  the  drier.  These  are  good 
for  flavoring  soups,  purges,  gravies,  omelets,  etc. 

Apples,  Pears,  and  Quinces 

Early  varieties  and  sweet  apples  are  not  well  adapted 
to  drying.  Winter  apples  should  be  used  for  this  pur- 
pose. 

(o)  Peel,  core,  trim,  and  slice  J inch  thick.  Dip 
in  weak  salt  solution  containing  8 teaspoons  of  salt 
to  1 gallon  of  water.  Spread  on  trays  and  dry.  It  is 
only  necessary  to  dry  apples  long  enough  for  them  to 
become  tough  and  somewhat  leathery. 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


315 


(6)  Pare,  core,  and  cut  into  eighths,  or  core  and  slice 
in  rings,  using  fruit  or  vegetable  sheer.  As  apples 
discolor  quickly,  do  not  let  them  stand  long  before 
drying.  To  prevent  discoloration,  as  the  fruit  is 
prepared  it  may  be  dipped  for  1 minute  in  a cold  salt 
bath,  using  1 ounce  of  salt  to  1 gallon  of  water.  Re- 
move surplus  moisture  and  dry  at  110°  to  150°  F., 
raising  temperature  gradually.  Dry  from  4 to  6 hours, 
and  longer  if  necessary. 

Pears  are  dried  in  the  same  way  as  apples.  They 
may  be  steamed  10  minutes  before  drying. 

Quinces  are  treated  in  the  same  was  as  pears. 

Pack  and  “ condition  ” as  described  on  page  300. 

Raspberries^ 

(o)  Sort  out  imperfect  berries,  spread  the  selected 
berries  on  trays,  and  dry.  Do  not  dry  so  long  that 
they  become  hard  enough  to  rattle.  The  drying 
should  be  stopped  as  soon  as  the  berries  fail  to  stain 
the  hand  when  pressed. 

(6)  Pick  leaves  and  stems  from  fruits  and  spread 
fruits  on  trays.  Handle  carefully  and  do  not  bruise. 
Spread  in  thin  layer,  and  dry  slowly.  Raise  tempera- 
ture gradually  from  110°  to  125°  F.  in  about  2 hours. 
Do  not  raise  temperature  higher  than  130°  F.  until 
a considerable  portion  of  the  moisture  has  evaporated, 
as  otherwise  expansion  will  occur  and  jixice  will  be  lost 
by  dripping.  This  is  accompanied  by  loss  of  flavor 
and  color.  Finish  drying  berries  at  140°  F.  for  2 to 
3 hours.  It  is  necessary  to  dry  berries  from  4 to  5 
hours. 

Blackberries,  dewberries,  and  huckleberries  can  be 
dried  in  the  same  way  as  raspberries. 

Pack  and  “ condition  ” as  described  on  page  300. 


316 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Peaches 

Peaches  usually  are  dried  unpeeled,  but  they  will 
be  better  if  peeled  before  drying. 

(а)  Remove  the  stones,  cut  the  fruit  into  halves,  or 
preferably  into  smaller  pieces,  and  spread  on  trays  to 
dry. 

(б)  Cut  in  halves,  pit,  lay  in  trays  pit  side  up,  and 
dry  at  same  temperature  and  for  same  length  of  time 
as  applies. 

Peaches  should  be  packed  carefully  and  “ condi- 
tioned ” as  described  on  page  300. 

Plums  and  Apricots 

Plums:  (o)  Plums  are  not  peeled,  but  the  pits  are 
removed,  the  fruit  being  cut  into  halves  and  dried  in 
the  same  way  as  peaches. 

(6)  Select  medium-ripe  plums,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  cover  the  vessel  and  let  stand  20  minutes. 
Small,  thin-fleshed  varieties  are  not  suitable  for  drying. 
Drain,  remove  surface  moisture,  and  dry  from  4 to  6 
hours,  gradually  raising  temperature  from  110°  to 
150°  F. 

Apricots  are  handled  in  the  same  way  as  plums. 

Pack  and  “ condition  ” as  described  on  page  300. 

Cherries 

(a)  Remove  stems  of  cherries  and,  if  the  fruit  is 
large,  the  pits  also.  Spread  out  on  trays  to  dry. 
Small,  black  cherries  can  be  dried  when  containing 
the  stones. 

(b)  Wash,  remove  surface  moisture,  and  spread 
cherries,  unseeded,  in  thin  layer  on  trays.  If  cherries 
are  seeded  there  will  be  a loss  of  juice.  Dry  from  2 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


317 


to  4 hours  at  110®  to  150°  F.  Raise  temperature 
gradually. 

Pack  and  condition  as  described  on  page  300. 

Precautions  against  Insects 

Two  kinds  of  moths  stand  out  prominently  among 
insects  that  attack  dried  fruits  and  vegetables.  They 
are  much  more  likely  to  get  into  the  fruit  during  the 
process  of  drying  than  to  find  their  way  through 
boxes  into  the  products  stored  inside  them.  This 
applies  particularly  to  drying  in  the  sun. 

A small  moth  called  the  Indian-meal  moth  is  the 
most  destructive  insect  that  attacks  dried  fruits  and 
vegetables.  It  is  about  f inch  long  and  has  a cloaked 
appearance,  one-third  gray  and  the  rest  copper  brown. 
The  fig  moth  is  about  the  same  size,  but  is  a dark  neu- 
tral gray.  A minute,  flattened,  chocolate-brown  beetle 
usually  accompanies  these  moths  and  does  consider- 
able damage.  Both  of  the  moths  deposit  their  eggs 
on  fruit  when  it  is  on  the  drying  racks — generally 
at  dusk  or  after  dark,  as  they  are  not  fond  of  day- 
light. It  takes  from  3 to  10  days  for  the  eggs  to  hatch 
into  whitish  or  pinkish  grub-like  caterpillars  and  from 
5 to  10  weeks  from  the  laying  of  the  eggs  till  the  appear- 
ance of  the  moth  to  lay  another  lot  of  eggs;  and  since 
a number  of  broods  or  generations  are  produced 
yearly,  if  a few  of  these  moth  eggs  are  stored  away  on 
dried  fruits  or  vegetables,  hundreds  of  caterpillars  are 
produced  and  many  pounds  of  valuable  material  may 
be  destroyed  during  the  course  of  the  winter  if  it  is 
stored  in  a warm  room.  Warm  dark  bins  or  dried 
fruit  in  sacks  offer  especially  favorable  places  for 
their  development.  It  is  evident  that  the  larger  the 


318 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


amount  of  material  in  a package,  the  greater  the  chance 
of  a few  eggs  doing  a great  deal  of  damage.  Small 
cartons  or  containers  have  the  advantage  of  confining 
the  injury  from  these  moths  to  small  quantities  of 
material,  for,  if  the  containers  are  closed  tightly,  they 
can  not  easily  escape  from  them  and  infest  other  pack- 
ages, which  may  not  have  been  infested  previously. 

In  sun  drying,  if  the  drying  racks  are  screened  early 
in  the  evening  and  at  night,  the  cheese-cloth  or  fly 
screen  battened  down,  and  the  dried  fruit  and  vegetables 
stored  in  tight  paper  sacks  in  a cool  place,  no  danger 
ordinarily  need  be  feared  from  these  insects.  As  an 
additional  precaution,  the  dried  product,  before  being 
stored,  may  be  heated  to  140°  F.  long  enough  to  allow 
the  heat  to  penetrate  throughout.  This  will  sterilize 
it  if  already  infested. 

In  drying  by  artificial  heat,  the  process  itself  ordi- 
narily will  sterilize  the  product.  But  after  drying  it 
should  be  stored  promptly,  to  prevent  infestation. 

Directions  for  Packing  and  Storing 

Although  not  necessary,  tin  cans  or  glass  jars  make 
good  receptacles  for  storage  of  dried  fruits  or  vegetables. 
Pasteboard  boxes  with  tight  covers,  stout  paper  bags, 
and  patented  paraffin  paper  cartons  also  afford  ample 
protection  for  dried  products  when  protected  from 
insects  and  rodents.  The  dried  fruit  or  vegetables 
must  be  protected  from  the  outside  moisture  and  will 
keep  best  in  a cool,  dry,  well-ventilated  place.  These 
conditions,  however,  are  difficult  to  obtain  in  the  more 
humid  regions,  and  there  moisture-tight  containers 
should  be  used. 

If  a small  amount  of  dried  product  is  put  in  each 
receptacle,  just  enough  for  one  or  two  meals,  it  will  not 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


319 


be  necessary  to  open  a container  the  contents  of  which 
can  not  be  consumed  in  a short  time.  The  use  of  the 
small  container  also  makes  it  more  difficult  for  insects 
to  spoil  large  quantities  of  the  dried  fruits  or  vegetables. 
If  a paper  bag  is  used,  the  upper  part  should  be  twisted 
into  a neck,  bent  over,  and  tied  tightly  with  a string. 
If  a further  precaution  against  spoilage  is  necessary 
the  bag  can  be  coated  with  paraffin  by  painting  it 
with  a brush  which  has  been  dipped  into  melted  paraffin. 
Another  precaution  may  be  taken  by  placing  the  small 
bags  in  a tin  container  with  a tightly  fitting  cover, 
such  as  an  ordinary  lard  can  or  pail.  All  bags  should 
bear  a label  indicating  what  they  contain. 

If  fruits  or  vegetables  are  packed  in  tight  containers 
immediately  upon  being  dried  thoroughly,  they  will 
remain  just  as  brittle  as  they  were  when  taken  from  the 
drier.  If,  however,  they  are  not  dried  thoroughly, 
they  will  sweat  and  soon  mold.  To  prevent  this 
the  material  should  be  examined  within  24  hours  after 
packing,  and  if  it  appears  moist  it  must  be  dried 
further. 

Recipes  for  Cooking  Dried  Fruits  and  Vegetables 

It  must  be  remembered  that  the  water  which  has  been 
dried  out  of  the  fruits  or  vegetables  must  be  restored 
to  them  before  cooking  and  that  this  process  requires 
time.  In  general,  the  longer  it  takes  to  dry,  the  longer 
should  the  dried  products  soak.  Because  the  kind 
of  vegetable  (old  and  tough  or  young  and  tender), 
the  size  of  the  pieces  (large  or  small),  and  the  amount  of 
moisture  which  the  dried  product  contains  affect  the 
length  of  time  the  vegetable  should  soak,  the  house- 
keeper must  use  her  best  judgment  in  selecting  the 
method  of  preparation  best  suited  to  her  own  products. 


320 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWII^E 


Once  soaked,  dried  vegetables  and  fruits  can  be 
cooked  in  almost  any  of  the  ways  in  which  fresh  ones 
can  be  cooked,  recipes  for  which  are  given  below. 
These  are  in  use  by  commercial  concerns. 


SNAP  BEANS 

Soak  overnight  or  8 to  12  hours,  using  10  pints  of  water  to 
1 pound  of  beans,  or  3 times  as  much  water  as  beans.  Boil 
3 hours  in  the  same  water,  with  a slice  of  bacon;  drain  off  water 
and  add  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.  Cream  sauce  may  be  used. 
Four  ounces  of  dried  beans  will  serve  10  people. 

BEETS 

Dried,  sliced  beets,  if  soaked  too  long,  lose  their  red  color 
and  good  flavor.  Soaking  for  2 hours  (2  parts  water  to  1 part 
beets)  should  be  sufficient.  They  should  then  be  cooked  in  the 
same  water  for  about  1|  hours.  If  they  are  cooled  in  the  same 
water  in  which  they  are  cooked,  it  is  believed  that  the  color 
is  improved.  Cured  by  process  B. 

Dried  beets,  after  soaking,  may  be  cooked  in  various  ways, 
the  same  as  fresh  beets. 

Creamed  Beets.  Soak  1 cup  of  dried  beet  root  in  2 cups  of 
water  from  6 to  8 hours.  Cook  until  tender.  Cool  in  the 
same  water.  Drain  off  water.  Add  2 tablespoons  of  sugar, 
i cup  of  vinegar,  \ cup  of  water,  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  a 
little  salt;  heat  together  to  boiling  point,  thicken  a little  with 
flour  and  water  well  blended.  Serve  hot.  Cured  by  proc- 
ess A. 

Pickled  Beets.  Cook  as  above,  add  vinegar  and  spices  and 
sweeten  to  taste.  Dried  beets  may  seem  to  lose  color,  but 
cooling  in  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled  will  tend  to 
restore  the  natural  color. 

Buttered  Beets.  Soak  2 cups  of  dried  beets  for  two  hours 
in  4 cups  of  cold  water  and  cook  until  tender.  Drain  and  add 
to  the  beets  2 tablespoons  of  butter,  1 teaspoon  of  salt,  and 
i teaspoon  of  pepper.  Stir  carefully  in  order  to  butter  and  sea- 
son each  slice  of  beet  without  breaking  it.  Serve  hot. 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


321 


CARROTS 

Buttered  Carrots.  Very  young  carrots  do  not  require  soaking. 
They  may  be  placed  in  cold  water  (about  3 cups  of  water  to  1 
cup  of  dried  carrots)  and  cooked  slowly  for  about  1|  hours. 
If  the  carrots  are  old  and  cut  in  large  pieces  for  drying,  soaking 
2 to  8 hours  or  even  overnight  may  be  necessary.  Drain  off 
water,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  buttered  or  with  drawn 
butter  or  cream  sauce. 

To  use  with  boiled  or  roast  meats,  soak  as  above,  boil  in  same 
water  10  minutes,  and  drop  in  with  the  meat. 

Carrot  Pudding.  Soak  J cup  of  dried  carrots  in  2§  cups  of 
water  6 to  8 hours,  or  overnight.  Add  to  the  carrots  1 cup  of 
raw  potatoes,  1 cup  of  dried  cherries,  and  f cup  of  suet,  and  chop 
up  fine.  Then  add  1 cup  of  flour,  1 cup  of  sugar,  J teaspoon 
salt,  1 teaspoon  cinnamon,  J teaspoon  cloves,  | teaspoon  nut- 
meg, § teaspoon  soda  well  mixed.  Stir  until  thoroughly  mixed. 
Steam  3 hours  and  serve  hot  with  pudding  sauce. 

CELERY 

Soak  8 to  12  hours,  or  overnight,  using  12  pints  of  water  to  1 
pound  of  celery,  or  3 parts  of  water  to  1 part  of  celery.  Boil  in 
same  water  until  tender  and  serve  with  cream  and  a tablespoon 
of  butter. 

CORN 

Soak  the  corn  for  2 to  4 hours  in  water,  using  2 cups  of  water 
to  1 cup  of  corn.  Some  housekeepers  prefer  to  soak  it  over- 
night, but  if  this  is  done  the  corn  should  be  kept  in  a very  cool 
place  so  that  it  does  not  sour.  Cook  the  corn  in  the  water  in 
which  it  was  soaked  for  an  hour  or  more.  Then  season  with 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  if  desired,  a very  little  sugar  also. 
Some  housekeepers  prefer  to  add  milk  to  the  water  in  which  the 
corn  is  cooked  or  to  use  cream  in  place  of  butter  for  seasoning  it. 

ONIONS 

Dried,  thinly  sliced  onions  may  be  cooked  slowly  without 
previous  soaking,  about  2 cups  of  water  being  needed  for  each 
cup  of  dried  onion.  If  very  dry,  the  onions  are  better  if  soaked 
from  2 to  6 hours  and  then  cooked  in  the  same  water  until 


322 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


tender.  After  cooking,  the  onions  may  be  used  like  any  other 
onions,  in  a great  variety  of  ways. 

PARSNIPS 

Soak  the  parsnips  for  2 to  4 hours  in  water,  using  2 cups  of 
water  to  1 cup  parsnips,  or  1 part  parsnips  to  2 parts  water. 
Cook  in  the  same  water  30  minutes.  Drain  off  water  and 
brown  in  butter  or  other  fat,  or  serve  with  cream  sauce. 

IRISH  POTATOES 

Soak  6 to  8 hours,  or  overnight,  using  8 pints  of  water  to  1 
pound  of  potatoes,  or  2 parts  of  water  to  1 part  of  potatoes. 

Fried  Potatoes.  Boil  in  the  same  water  about  5 minutes. 
Drain  and  fry  in  the  same  way  as  fresh  potatoes. 

Mashed  Potatoes.  Boil  in  the  same  water  20  to  30  minutes. 
Drain  and  steam  5 to  10  minutes  and  then  mash,  adding  salt, 
pepper,  butter,  and  milk. 

Dried  Cooked  Potatoes.  If  the  potatoes  were  cooked  before 
drying,  it  will  not  be  necessary  to  soak  them  before  cooking. 
Place  the  dried  potato  in  a double  boiler,  add  about  2 cups  of 
milk  to  1 cup  of  potato,  cover,  and  steam  until  soft.  Beat, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  serve  like  fresh  mashed 
potatoes. 

SWEET  POTATOES 

^ Dried  raw  sweet  potatoes  may  be  soaked  and  cooked  like 
Irish  potatoes  (see  above).  In  preparing  dried  cooked  sweet 
potatoes  for  the  table,  water  should  be  substituted  for  the  milk 
used  in  steaming  the  Irish  potatoes.  Except  for  this,  the 
same  method  can  be  followed. 

RHUBARB 

Stewed  Rhubarb.  Soak  6 to  8 hours,  or  overnight,  using  12 
pints  of  water  to  1 pound  of  rhubarb,  or  2 parts  of  water  to  1 part 
of  rhubarb.  Cook  in  the  same  water  until  done  and  sweeten 
to  taste. 

Rhubarb  Pie.  Soak  1 cup  of  dried  rhubarb  in  2 cups  of  water 
8 to  12  hours.  Cook  in  the  same  water  30  minutes,  then  make 
‘into  a pie  as  if  it  were  fresh  rhubarb 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 


323 


SPINACH 

Dried  spinach  takes  up  water  very  readily  and  may  be  cooked 
slowly  without  previous  soaking.  If  preferred,  it  can  be  soaked 
2 to  6 hours,  which  will  shorten  the  time  required  for  cooking. 
A little  salt  pork  added  to  the  spinach  improves  the  flavor, 
or  it  may  be  buttered  when  served. 

SQUASH 

Soak  8 to  12  hours,  or  overnight,  using  10  pints  of  water  to 
1 pound  of  squash,  or  3 parts  of  water  to  1 part  of  squash. 

Mashed  Squash,  Boil  slowly  in  the  same  water  1 hour.  Mash 
well  and  add  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 

Squash  Pie.  Soak  1 cup  of  dried  squash  8 to  12  hours  in  3 cups 
of  water.  Cook  in  the  same  water  1 hour  and  mash  well.  Mix 
thoroughly  1 egg  well  beaten,  J cup  of  sugar,  | teaspoon  salt, 
and  1 tablespoon  flour.  Stir  in  J teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon, 
nutmeg,  allspice,  and  ginger,  a pinch  of  cloves,  and  1§  cups  of 
milk.  Add  squash.  Bake  in  a hot  oven. 

APPLES 

Soak  6 to  8 hours,  or  overnight,  using  6 pints  of  water  to  1 
pound  of  apples,  or  3 parts  of  water  to  1 part  of  apples.  Two 
hours'  soaking  is^sufficient  for  thinly  sliced  apples.  Commercial 
apples  are  sulphured  and  do  not  discolor. 

Apple  Sauce.  Cook  about  30  minutes  in  the  same  water; 
then  add  1 cup  of  sugar  to  1 pound  of  fruit,  J teaspoonful  of 
nutmeg  or  cinnamon,  and  mash. 

Apple  Pie.  Cook  in  the  same  water  about  5 minutes  to  make 
them  tender,  then  drain  off  water  and  use  in  pie  in  the  same  way 
as  fresh  apples.  One  pound  of  dried  apples  will  make  eight  large 
pies. 

CHERRIES 

Soak  6 to  8 hours,  or  overnight,  using  4 pints  of  water  to  1 
pound  of  cherries,  or  3 parts  of  water  to  1 part  of  cherries. 

Stewed  Cherries.  Cook  slowly  in  the  same  water  and  sweeten 
to  taste.  One  pound  of  dried  cherries  will  serve  15  people.. 

Cherry  Pie.  Soak  J cup  of  dried  cherries  in  1 pint  of  water 
6 to  8 hours.  Heat  in  the  same  water  15  minutes.  Drain 


324 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


off  the  juice  and  use  the  cherries  in  the  pie  in  the  same  way  as 
fresh  cherries.  Add  a little  sugar  to  the  juice  drained  off, 
boil  down  to  a sirup,  and  pour  over  the  pie  hot  as  it  is  served. 

PRUNES 

Soak  6 to  8 hours,  or  overnight,  using  2 pints  of  water  to  1 
pound  of  prunes,  or  2 parts  of  water  to  1 part  of  prunes. 

Stewed  Prunes,  Cook  slowly  in  the  same  water  and  sweeten 
to  taste. 

Spiced  Prunes,  Drain  off  water  and  add  to  it  the  following: 
For  every  2 pounds  of  soaked  up  prunes,  1 pound  of  sugar, 
\ pint  of  vinegar,  1 teaspoonful  cinnamon,  1 teaspoonful  allspice 
and  cloves.  Put  spices  in  a cloth.  Boil  the  above  15  or  20 
minutes  until  sirupy,  then  add  prunes,  and  cook  slowly  about 
30  minutes. 

RASPBERRIES 

Soak  4 to  5 hours,  using  6 pints  of  water  to  1 pound  of  rasp- 
berries, or  IJ  parts  of  water  to  1 part  of  raspberries.  Cook  in 
the  same  water  20  minutes  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Use  in  the 
same  way  as  fresh  raspberries. 

OKRA 

Dried  okra  should  be  soaked  until  soft  and  used  in  the  same 
way  as  fresh  okra  in  the  preparation  of  soups  and  stews. 

CABBAGE 

Creamed : Put  heaping  cupful  in  7 cups  of  cold  fresh  water 
and  bring  very  slowly  to  a hoily  and  boil  steadily  for  30  minutes. 
Do  not  cover  kettle  during  cooking.  Add  J teaspoon  salt. 
Drain  well.  Melt  2 tablespoons  butter  and,  when  it  is  bubbling 
hot,  add  1 heaping  tablespoon  flour,  1 teaspoon  salt,  J teaspoon 
pepper.  Stir  well  but  do  not  brown.  Then  add  1 cup  milk 
slowly  and  stir  until  smooth  and  thick.  Let  come  to  a boil, 
then  add  the  well-drained  cabbage  and  heat  together  until 
boiling.  Serve  at  once. 

With  vinegar  dressing:  Follow  above  general  directions  for 
cooking  cabbage.  Drain  well.  Add  ^ cup  vinegar,  2 table- 
spoons butter,  1 teaspoon  salt,  \ teaspoon  pepper.  Return 
to  fire  and  heat  a few  minutes.  Serve  smoking  hot. 


DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  325 
TURNIPS 

With  butter  sauce:  Put  heaping  cupful  in  8 cups  cold,  fresh 
water  and  bring  very  slowly  to  a boil,  and  boil  steadily  for  20 
minutes.  Add  § teaspoon  salt  and  boil  25  minutes  longer.  Do 
not  cover  kettle  during  cooking.  Drain  well,  and  add  2 table- 
spoons butter,  1 teaspoon  salt,  J teaspoon  pepper,  return  to 
fire  and  heat  until  butter  is  all  absorbed  and  serve  smoking 
hot. 

In  white  sauce:  Follow  above  general  directions  for  cooking 
turnips  and  drain  well,  melt  2 tablespoons  butter  and,  when  it 
is  bubbling  hot,  add  1 tablespoon  flour,  \ teaspoon  salt,  and 
i teaspoon  pepper.  Stir  well  but  do  not  brown,  then  add  1 cup 
milk  slowly  and  stir  until  thickened.  Let  come  to  a boil; 
add  the  well-drained  turnips  and  heat  together  until  boiling. 


U.  S.  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FARMERS’  BULLETIN  NO.  881 


PRESERVATION  OF  VEGETABLES  BY  FERMEN- 
TATION AND  SALTING 

L.  A.  ROUND  and  H.  L.  LANG 
Bacteriologist,  Bureau  of  Scientific  Assistant,  Office  of 

Chemistry  Home  Economics 


Contribution  from  the  States  Relations  Service^ 

A.  C.  TR  UE,  Director;  and  Bureau  of  Chemistry, 
C.  L.  ALSBERG,  Chief 


INTRODUCTION 

/Methods  of  preserving  vegetables  by  salting  or 
fermenting  them  have  been  practiced  for  a long  time, 
and  vegetables  so  prepared  are  known  to  be  whole- 
some food.  Recent  experiments  by  the  Department 
of  Agriculture  have  shown  that  a great  many  vege- 
tables may  be  satisfactorily  preserved  by  such  methods, 
which  deserve  a wider  use  in  the  home  than  they  have 
had  in  the  past.  One  advantage  that  these  methods 
possess  is  that  they  make  use  of  containers  which  could 
not  be  used  for  canning.  For  example,  old  kegs,  lard 
and  butter  tubs,  stone  crocks  or  jars,  wide-mouthed 

326 


FERMENTATION  AND  SALTING 


327 


glass  jars,  and  glass  preserving  jars  without  covers, 
if  thoroughly  cleaned,  may  be  used  for  the  storage  of 
salted  or  fermented  vegetables.  Another  advantage 
is  that,  with  a given  amount  of  labor,  a great  deal  more 
material  can  be  cared  for  by  these  methods  than  could 
be  preserved  in  the  same  time  if  canning  or  drying 
alone  were  depended  upon. 

General  Principles  of  the  Methods 

The  methods  of  preservation  considered  in  this  bulle- 
tin group  themselves  naturally  under  three  heads: 
(1)  Fermentation  with  dry  salting,  (2)  fermentation 
in  brine,  and  (3)  salting  without  fermentation. 

When  vegetables  are  either  packed  dry  with  2 or  3 
pounds  of  salt  to  every  100  pounds  of  material,  as  in 
the  making  of  sauerkraut,  or  are  covered  with  a brine 
containing  5 pounds  of  salt  to  every  12  gallons  of 
water,  as  in  the  preparation  of  dill  pickles,  the  sugars 
present  in  the  vegetables  are  extracted  from  them  and 
are  fermented  by  the  lactic-acid-forming  bacteria  which 
are  present  naturally  in  great  numbers  on  the  surface 
of  the  fresh  material.  After  this  action  has  gone  on  to 
to  a certain  point,  enough  of  this  lactic  acid  is  formed  to 
kill  the  bacteria  and  prevent  any  further  change  in 
the  material,  provided  certain  precautions  are  taken 
to  prevent  the  growth  of  molds.  The  lactic  acid  per- 
meates the  fermented  material  and  gives  it  a character- 
istic flavor  not  unlike  that  of  a weak  vinegar  solution. 
This  flavor  is  relished  by  many.  The  lactic  acid  has 
no  harmful  effect.  It  is  the  same  acid  which  is  present 
in  sour  milk  and  it  is  digested  and  utilized  by  the  body 
as  a source  of  energy. 

If  the  vegetables  are  covered  with  a very  strong 


328 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


brine,  or  are  packed  with  a fairly  large  amount  of  salt, 
lactic-acid  fermentation  and  also  the  growth  of  other 
forms  of  bacteria  and  molds  are  prevented.  This 
method  of  preservation  is  especially  applicable  to  those 
vegetables  which  contain  so  little  sugar  that  sufl&cient 
lactic  acid  can  not  be  formed  by  bacterial  action  to 
insure  preservation  of  the  material. 

In  the  well-known  method  of  vinegar  pickling, 
the  acetic  acid  of  the  vinegar  acts  like  the  lactic  acid 
produced  by  fermentation,  as  a preservative,  prevent- 
ing the  growth  of  bacteria  or  molds.  Sometimes  bri- 
ning precedes  pickling  in  vinegar,  and  often  the  pickling' 
is  modified  by  the  addition  of  sugar  and  spices,  which 
add  flavor,  as  well  as  help  to  preserve  the  fruit  or  vege- 
tables. In  some  cases  olive  oil  or  some  other  table 
oil  is  added  to  the  vinegar,  as  in  the  making  of  oil 
cucumber  pickles. 

Equipment  Needed 

A supply  of  clean  wooden  kegs  or  stone  crocks  is  the 
first  requisite.  For  home  use,  the  smaller  sizes  are  pref- 
erable as  a rule,  because  the  contents  will  then  be  used 
up  more  quickly  and  there  will  be  less  chance  of  molding 
from  standing  too  long  after  the  kegs  or  crocks  are 
opened.  Wooden  kegs  holding  5 or  10  gallons  are  a 
convenient  size.  New  kegs  are  preferable,  but  old 
ones,  such  as  beer  or  cider  kegs,  may  be  used  if  they  are 
thoroughly  washed  and  steamed  to  remove  any  unde- 
sirable odor  or  flavor  which  might  be  imparted  to 
the  foods  packed  in  them.  Wooden  vessels  of  yellow 
or  pitch  pine  are  undesirable,  since  they  are  apt  to 
give  a disagreeable  taste  to  the  foods.  Stone  crocks 
or  jars  holding  from  1 to  5 gallons  are  convenient. 
Stoneware  is  less  likely  to  absorb  flavors  than  wood. 


FERMENTATION  AND  SALTING 


329 


and  stone  jars  may  be  obtained  in  smaller  sizes  than 
wooden  kegs.  Wide-mouthed  bottles  or  glass  jars, 
which  are  not  suitable  for  canning,  may  also  be  used 
for  salting  or  fermenting  small  quantities  of  foods. 

A supply  of  ordinary  fine  salt,  which  can  be  pur- 
chased in  bulk  for  about  2 cents  per  pound,  is  most 
satisfactory  for  general  use.  Table  salt  will  do  very 
well,  but  is  rather  expensive  if  large  quantities  of 
vegetables  are  to  be  preserved.  The  rather  coarse 
salt  (known  in  the  trade  as  “ ground  alum  salt  ”), 
which  is  used  in  freezing  ice  cream,  can  be  used.  Rock 
salt  should  not  be  used  because  it  is  too  coarse  and 
is  likely  to  contain  impurities. 

Clean  white  cloth  (cheese-cloth  or  muslin)  is  neces- 
sary for  covering  the  material  after  it  is  packed  into 
the  container.  It  will  be  found  convenient  to  cut 
this  into  circular  pieces  about  6 inches  larger  in  diam- 
eter than  the  stone  crock  or  keg.  Two  or  three  thick- 
nesses of  cheese-cloth,  or  one  thickness  of  muslin  or 
heavier  cloth,  should  be  spread  over  the  top  of  the 
vegetables. 

Round  pieces  of  board  about  1 inch  or  more  in  thick- 
ness will  be  needed  to  put  on  top  of  the  cheese-cloth. 
The  boards  should  be  a little  smaller  in  diameter  than 
the  inside  of  the  crock  or  the  head  of  the  keg  or  tub, 
so  that  they  will  slip  in  and  out  easily.  The  ^pieces 
may  be  sawed  out  at  a lumber  mill,  or  may  be  made 
at  home  by  fastening  together  several  boards  with 
cleats  and  rounding  them  with  a small  saw  and  a car- 
penter’s shave.  Almost  any  wood  may  be  used  except 
yellow  or  pitch  pine,  which  is  likely  to  impart  an 
undesirable  flavor  to  the  vegetables.  For  small  con- 
tainers, if  preferred,  heavy  plates  of  suitable  size  can 
be  used  instead  of  boards. 


830 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


One  or  more  clean  bricks  or  some  clean  stones  may 
be  used  as  weights  to  hold  down  the  mass  in  the  keg 
or  crock. 

Paraffin  is  needed  to  pour  over  the  liquid  in  the 
containers  (after  fermentation  has  ceased)  to  prevent 
mold. 

A pair  of  kitchen  scales  or  steelyards  and  a quart 
or  gallon  liquid  measure  complete  the  necessary  equip- 
ment. 

Fermentation  with  Dry  Salting 

As  has  already  been  stated,  fermentation  with  dry 
salting  consists  in  packing  the  material  with  a small 
amount  of  salt.  No  water  is  added,  for  the  salt  extracts 
the  water  from  the  vegetables  and  forms  the  brine. 
The  method,  in  general,  is  as  follows: 

Wash  the  vegetables,  drain  off  the  surplus  water, 
and  weigh  them.  For  each  100  pounds  of  the  vege- 
tables weigh  out  3 pounds  of  salt;  for  smaller  quan- 
tities use  the  same  proportion  (3  per  cent  by  weight) 
of  salt.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  keg,  crock,  or  other 
container  with  a layer  of  the  vegetables  about  1 inch 
thick  and  sprinkle  over  this  a little  of  the  salt.  Do  not 
add  too  much  of  the  salt  to  the  first  layers  packed, 
but  try  to  distribute  it  equally  among  the  different 
layers  so  that  the  quantity  which  has  been  weighed 
out  will  be  sufficient  for  the  given  quantity  of  vege- 
tables packed.  If  a little  of  the  salt  is  left  over,  it 
can  be  added  to  the  top  layer,  but  if  more  has  to  be 
added  than  has  been  weighed  out,  the  finished  product 
will  taste  too  salty.  Continue  adding  layers  of  the 
material  sprinkled  with  salt  until  the  container  is 
about  three-fourths  full.  Sprinkle  the  last  of  the  salt 
on  the  top  layer  and  spread  over  it  one  or  two  thick- 


FERMENTATION  AND  SALTING 


331 


nesses  of  cheese-cloth,  tucking  them  down  at  the  sides. 
On  the  cloth  place  one  of  the  round  pieces  of  board, 
or  a plate,  as  just  described,  and  on  this  put  a clean 
stone  or  one  or  two  clean  bricks.  The  size  of  the 
weight  depends  on  the  quantity  of  material  being  pre- 
served. For  a 5-gallon  keg  a weight  of  10  pounds  will 
be  sufficient,  but  if  a larger  barrel  is  used,  a heavier 
weight  will  be  needed.  The  weight  added  should  be 
sufficient  to  extract  the  juices,  to  form  a brine,  which 
will  cover  the  top  in  about  24  hours,  and  sometimes  it 
may  be  necessary  to  add  more  stones  after  the  material 
has  stood  a while,  if  a brine  does  not  form. 

After  it  is  packed,  allow  the  container  to  stand  in  a 
moderately  warm  room  to  ferment.  The  salt  and 
pressure  of  the  weight  soon  extract  water  from  the  vege- 
tables and  form  a brine,  which  soon  covers  the  whole 
mass.  The  stone  and  board  serve  to  keep  the  vege- 
tables beneath  the  surface  of  the  liquid.  If  the  weight 
is  not  sufficient  for  this  purpose,  a larger  stone  or 
more  bricks  should  be  added.  As  the  fermentation 
goes  on,  bubbles  arise  to  the  surface  of  the  liquid. 
The  rate  of  fermentation  depends  principally  upon  the 
temperature.  In  warm  weather  it  requires  only  8 to 
10  days;  in  cool  weather  2 to  4 weeks  may  be  neces- 
sary. When  bubbling  stops,  fermentation  is  com- 
plete. A good  way  to  determine  this  is  to  tap  the 
receptacle  gently;  if  no  bubbles  arise,  fermentation 
is  finished. 

The  containers  should  then  be  placed  in  a cellar 
or  other  cool  storeroom  and  the  surface  of  the  Kquid 
treated  to  prevent  the  development  of  a scum  of 
mold.  If  this  is  not*  done  a thin  film  will  appear  on  the 
surface  of  the  brine  soon  after  fermentation  ceases, 
which  will  spread  rapidly  and  develop  into  a heavy 


332 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


folded  membrane.  This  scum  is  a growth  of  micro- 
organisms which  feed  upon  the  acid  formed  by  fer- 
mentation. If  allowed  to  grow  undisturbed,  all  the 
acid  will  eventually  be  destroyed  and  the  fermented 
material  will  spoil.  This  scum  must  be  prevented  from 
forming  if  the  product  is  to  be  kept  for  a considerable 
time.  Exclusion  of  air  from  the  surface  of  the  brine 
will  entirely  prevent  its  formation.  There  are  three 
feasible  methods  of  accomplishing  this. 

The  first  method  is  to  cover  the  surface  with  very 
hot,  melted  paraffin.  If  the  paraffin  is  sufficiently  hot 
to  make  the  brine  boil  when  poured  upon  it,  a smooth, 
even  layer  will  be  formed  before  hardening,  making 
a perfectly  air-tight  seal.  Before  adding  paraffin  the 
containers  should  be  set  where  they  will  not  be  dis- 
turbed until  ready  for  use,  as  any  attempt  to  move 
them  afterwards  may  break  the  seal  and  necessitate 
resealing.  Paraffin  has  the  advantage  of  ease  in  han- 
dling, and  of  being  easily  separated  from  the  fermented 
vegetables  when  they  are  removed.  Further,  it  can 
be  used  over  again  and  thus  the  expense  is  small  in  the 
long  run.  If  it  becomes  dirty  it  can  be  purified  by 
heating  very  hot  and  straining  through  several  thick- 
nesses of  cheese-cloth.  One  disadvantage  in  the  use  of 
paraffin  is  that  the  formation  of  gas  below  the  layer 
will  break  the  seal;  therefore  it  should  not  be  used 
until  fermentation  has  ceased.  If  the  paraffin  breaks, 
it  should  be  removed,  remelted,  and  replaced. 

The  second  method  is  to  pack  a barrel  or  keg  full 
and  then  replace  the  head.  Fill  the  barrel  or  keg 
as  full  as  possible  with  the  fresh  material  to  be  fer- 
mented and  then  add  the  round  board  and  weights 
exactly  as  described  heretofore.  Let  the  barrel  stand 
for  48  hours  to  allow  part  of  the  gas  to  escape.  Then 


FERMENTATION  AND  SALTING 


333 


remove  the  board  and  weight,  and  head  the  barrel  or 
keg  up  tight.  Bore  a small  hole  (about  § inch)  in 
the  head  and  fill  the  barrel  full  with  brine  (made  by 
dissolving  f cup  salt  in  1 gallon  water)  so  that  there  is 
no  air  space.  Allow  the  barrel  to  stand  until  the  fer- 
mentation has  stopped,  adding  more  brine  at  intervals 
to  keep  the  container  full.  When  bubbling  has  stopped, 
plug  the  vent  tight.  If  the  barrel  does  not  leak,  fer- 
mented products  put  up  in  this  manner  will  keep 
indefinitely. 

The  third  method  is  to  use  an  oil,  like  cottonseed 
oil,  which  floats  on  the  surface  and  effectively  prevents 
air  from  reaching  the  brine.  Brine  covered  with  a 
layer  of  cottonseed  oil  or  some  other  wholesome 
oil  about  j inch  thick  will  keep  indefinitely.  The  only 
objection  to  liquid  oils  is  the  difficulty  of  getting  at 
the  preserved  vegetables  without  getting  them  covered 
with  the  oil,  which  is  difficult  to  remove.  Before  the 
vegetables  are  to  be  removed,  the  oil  should  be  skimmed 
or  siphoned  off  from  the  surface  of  the  brine. 

If  oil  or  paraffin  is  used  to  cover  the  brine,  it  is  advis- 
able, after  fermentation  is  finished,  to  adjust  the  amount 
of  brine  used,  and  the  weights  on  the  cover,  so  that  the 
brine  comes  up  to  but  not  over  the  cover.  In  this  case 
only  the  brine  exposed  between  the  cover  and  sides 
need  be  oiled  or  paraffined,  thus  saving  covering 
material. 

Experiments  by  the  department  have  shown  that 
the  following  vegetables  may  be  preserved  success- 
fully, under  home  conditions,  by  the  above  method  of 
fermentation  by  dry  salting:  Cabbage  (sauerkraut), 
string  beans,  beet  tops,  and  turnip  tops,  and  it  is 
probable  that  others  may  be  added  to  this  list  as  a 
result  of  further  experiments.  In  general  the  method 


334 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


described  above  should  be  followed  for  all  vegetables 
preserved  by  this  method,  with  modifications  in  the 
preservation  of  some  of  them  as  follows: 

Sauerkraut  or  Fermented  Salt  Cabbage 

In  many  parts  of  the  country  it  is  a general  belief 
that  only  late  or  fall  cabbage  is  suitable  for  making 
sauerkraut.  Such,  however,  is  not  the  case.  If 
properly  handled  and  stored,  sauerkraut  of  excellent 
quality  can  be  produced  from  cabbage  maturing  at  any 
season  of  the  year.  The  essential  points  are  the  use 
of  only  mature,  sound  cabbage,  scrupulous  cleanli- 
ness throughout  the  process,  and  proper  care  of  the 
surface  of  the  brine  after  fermentation  is  completed. 

In  making  sauerkraut  for  home  purposes,  the  outer 
green  leaves  of  the  cabbage  should  be  removed,  just 
as  in  preparing  the  head  for  boiling.  In  addition  all 
decayed  or  bruised  leaves  should  be  discarded  and  the 
core  removed.  If  an  instrument  for  this  purpose  is 
not  available  it  is  advisable  to  quarter  the  heads  and 
slice  off  the  part  of  the  core  remaining  on  each  quarter. 
The  cabbage  should  be  shredded  by  one  of  the  hand- 
shredding  machines  sold  upon  the  market  for  such 
purposes,  or  if  one  is  not  available  the  heads  may 
be  cut  into  thin  slices  with  a slaw  cutter  or  a large 
knife. 

The  shredded  cabbage  should  be  packed  immediately 
into  a perfectly  clean,  water-tight  receptacle,  such  as  a 
cider  or  wine  barrel,  keg,  or  tub.  As  it  is  packed  into 
the  receptacle,  add  salt  in  the  proportion  of  1 pound 
of  salt  to  40  pounds  of  cabbage,  distributing  it  evenly 
throughout  the  cabbage,  as  described.  Experiments 
have  shown  that  approximately  2|  pounds  of  salt 
to  each  100  pounds  of  shredded  cabbage  give  the 


FERMENTATION  AND  SALTING 


335 


best  flavor  to  the  resulting  kraut.  When  the  barrel 
or  crock  is  nearly  full,  the  cabbage  should  be  pressed 
down  as  firmly  as  possible  and  covered  with  a clean 
board  cover.  It  is  advisable  but  not  essential  that 
clean  cloth  be  placed  over  the  cabbage  before  the  cover 
is  put  into  place.  The  salt  soon  extracts  a considerable 
amount  of  the  cabbage  juice  from  the  cabbage,  and  a 
sufficient  weight  of  clean  brick  or  stone  should  be 
added  to  cause  the  brine  to  rise  up  to  the  wooden 
cover.  Set  the  container  aside  until  fermentation  is 
complete,  skim  off  any  scum  that  forms  and  protect 
the  surface  by  pouring  over  it  a layer  of  paraffin,  as 
described.  If  paraffin  is  not  added,  the  scum  de- 
velops very  rapidly  during  warm  weather  and  soon 
destroys  the  acid  of  the  brine  and  the  sauerkraut 
beneath.  If  the  sauerkraut  is  made  during  the  fall 
and  stored  in  a cool  place,  there  is  no  absolute  neces- 
sity of  a layer  of  paraffin,  since  the  low  temperature 
will  prevent  the  growth  of  the  organism  which  destroys 
lactic  acid  and  causes  decomposition.  No  doubt  the 
popular  idea  that  sauerkraut  made  from  early  cabbage 
will  not  keep  is  based  upon  the  fact  that  the  fermenta- 
tion of  sauerkraut  made  from  such  cabbage  occurs 
in  warm  weather  and  the  rapid  growth  of  scum  soon 
destroys  both  brine  and  kraut  if  the  surface  is  not 
properly  protected. 

String  Beans 

String  beans  should  be  young  and  tender  and  not 
overgrown.  Remove  the  tip  ends  and  strings,  cut  or 
break  the  beans  into  pieces  about  2 inches  long,  and 
pack  as  described  on  page  330.  If  desired,  the  beans 
may  be  shredded  by  cutting  lengthwise  several  times, 
and  the  fermented  product  prepared  like  sauerkraut. 


336 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Beet  Tops  and  Turnip  Tops 

Wash  to  remove  grit  and  follow  general  directions 
as  described  on  page  330. 

Fermentation  in  Brine 

As  stated  above,  some  vegetables  which  do  not 
contain  sufficient  water  are  better  fermented  by  cover- 
ing them  with  a weak  brine. 

Wash  the  vegetables,  drain  off  the  surplus  water, 
and  pack  them  in  a keg,  crock,  or  other  utensil  until  it 
is  nearly  full  (within  about  3 inches  of  the  top  of  the 
vessel).  Prepare  a weak  brine  as  follows:  To  each 
gallon  of  water  used  add  i pint  of  vinegar  and  f cup 
of  salt  and  stir  until  the  salt  is  entirely  dissolved. 
The  amount  of  brine  necessary  to  cover  the  vegetables 
will  be  about  equal  to  one-half  the  volume  of  the  mate- 
rial to  be  fermented.  This  is  very  easily  calculated  by 
knowing  the  contents  of  the  container  used.  For 
example,  if  a 5-gallon  keg  is  to  be  packed,  2|  gallons 
will  be  needed.  It  is  best  to  make  up  at  one  time  all 
the  brine  needed  on  one  day.  A clean  tub  or  barrel 
can  be  used  for  mixing  the  brine.  Pour  the  brine  over 
the  vegetables,  and  cover  as  described.  Set  the  ves- 
sel and  its  contents  away  in  a moderately  warm  room 
to  ferment.  When  fermentation  has  stopped,  the 
container  should  be  placed  in  a cool  cellar  or  store- 
room and  the  surface  of  the  liquid  treated,  to  pre- 
vent mold,  by  one  of  the  methods  described  above. 
Before  adding  the  paraffin  or  cottonseed  oil,  any 
scum  or  mold  which  may  have  formed  on  the  surface 
of  the  liquid  should  be  removed  by  skimming. 

Experience  has  shown  that  the  following  vegetables 
may  be  preserved  satisfactorily  by  fermenting  in 
brine:  cucumbers,  string  beans,  green  tomatoes,  beets. 


FERMENTATION  AND  SALTING 


337 


beet  tops,  turnip  tops,  corn,  and  green  peas.  The 
general  directions  given  should  be  followed,  but  some 
modifications  are  desirable  in  the  preserving  of  in- 
dividual vegetables  by  this  method,  and  these  are 
given  in  the  following  pages. 

Cucumbers 

Wash  the  cucumbers  and  pack  into  a clean,  water- 
tight keg  or  crock.  On  the  bottom  of  the  container 
place  a layer  of  dill  and  a handful  of  mixed  spice. 
When  the  container  is  full,  add  more  dill  and  spice. 
Add  sufficient  brine  to  cover  the  material.  When 
nearly  full,  cover  with  a clean  cloth  and  a board  cover 
weighted  with  stone,  as  described.  The  dill  and  spices 
may  be  omitted  if  desired. 

String  Beans 

Remove  the  ends  and  strings  from  the  beans  and  cut 
into  pieces  about  2 inches  long,  pack  in  the  container, 
cover  with  brine,  and  ferment,  as  described  on  page  336, 

Green  Tomatoes 

Green  tomatoes  should  be  packed  whole  and  pre- 
pared as  cucumbers.  The  dill  and  spice  may  be  added 
if  desired. 

Beets 

Beets  must  be  scrubbed  thoroughly  and  packed 
whole.  If  peeled  or  sliced  before  being  fermented,  the 
beets  lose  considerable  color  and  flavor. 

Beet  Tops  and  Turnip  Tops 

These  should  be  washed  thoroughly  and  packed  into 
the  container  without  being  cut  up. 


338 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Peas 

Green  peas  should  be  shelled  and  packed  in  the  same 
way  as  string  beans.  It  is  advisable  to  use  fairly  small 
containers  for  peas  so  that  the  quantity  opened  up 
will  be  used  before  it  has  a chance  to  spoil. 

Corn 

Husk  and  clean  the  silk  from  the  corn;  wash  and 
place  the  ears  on  end  in  the  jar,  packing  the  jar  nearly 
full.  Pour  the  brine  over  the'  ears;  add  cover  and 
weights.  Fermented  corn  has  a sour  taste,  which 
may  not  be  relished  if  the  corn  is  eaten  alone.  For 
this  reason  it  will  be  preferable  in  most  cases  to  pre- 
serve corn  by  canning,  drying,  or  by  salting,  as  described 
on  page  339.  Fermented  corn,  however,  may  be  used 
in  the  preparation  of  some  dishes,  such  as  chowders, 
omelets,  etc.,  where  its  flavor  will  be  masked  to  some 
extent  by  the  other  ingredients,  and  the  acid  taste  of 
the  fermented  corn  may  not  be  objectionable  to  some 
people. 

Salting  without  Fermentation 

In  this  method  the  vegetables  are  packed  with  enough 
salt  to  prevent  fermentation  or  the  growth  of  yeasts  or 
molds.  The  following  directions  should  be  followed 
in  salting  vegetables: 

Wash  the  vegetables,  drain  off  the  water,  and  then 
weigh  them.  For  each  100  pounds  of  vegetables  weigh 
out  25  pounds  of  salt.  For  smaller  quantities  use  the 
same  proportion  of  salt  (one-fourth  of  the  weight  of  the 
vegetables).  Spread  a layer  of  the  vegetables  about 
1 inch  deep  on  the  bottom  of  a clean  keg,  tub,  or  crock, 
and  sprinkle  heavily  with  some  of  the  salt.  Try  to 
distribute  the  salt  evenly  among  the  different  layers 
packed  so  that  the  quantity  weighed  out  will  be 


FERMENTATION  AND  SALTING 


339 


just  enough  to  pack  the  vegetables.  Continue  adding 
layers  of  vegetables  and  salt  until  the  container  is 
nearly  full  and  then  cover  with  the  clean  cloth,  board, 
and  weight,  as  in  the  case  of  fermentation  by  dry 
salting.  The  keg  or  other  container  should  then  be 
set  aside  in  a cool  place.  If  the  salt  and  pressure  of 
the  weight  have  not  extracted  sufficient  brine  to 
cover  the  vegetables,  after  24  hours,  prepare  a strong 
brine  by  dissolving  1 pound  of  salt  in  2 quarts  of  water 
and  pour  enough  of  this  over  the  vegetables  to  come 
up  to  the  round  wooden  cover.  There  will  be  a small 
amount  of  bubbling  at  the  start,  as  in  the  case  of  the 
fermented  vegetables,  but  this  will  not  continue 
for  long.  Just  as  soon  as  the  bubbling  has  stopped, 
the  surface  of  the  liquid  should  be  protected  by  one  of 
the  methods  described. 

Experiments  have  shown  that  the  following  vege- 
tables may  be  satisfactorily  preserved  by  the  above 
method:  dandelions,  beet  tops,  turnip  top,  spinach, 
chard,  kale,  cabbage,  string  beans,  green  peas,  and  corn. 
The  string  beans  should  be  cut  in  2-inch  pieces,  as  in 
their  preparation  for  fermentation.  The  peas  should 
be  shelled  and  packed  according  to  the  directions  given 
above.  Cabbage  should  be  shredded  and  packed 
in  the  same  way  as  in  the  manufacture  of  sauerkraut. 
Corn,  however,  requires  somewhat  different  treatment, 
and  the  directions  for  salting  it  are  as  follows: 

Salted  Corn 

Husk  the  ears  of  corn  and  remove  the  silk.  Cook 
in  boiling  water  for  about  10  minutes  to  set  the  milk. 
Cut  off  the  corn  from  the  cob  with  a sharp  knife. 
Weigh  the  corn,  and  pack  in  layers  with  one-fourth  its 
weight  of  fine  salt,  as  described  above. 


340 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Care  and  Storage  of  Fermented  and  Salted  Products 

If  properly  prepared  and  stored,  fermented  and  salted 
products  will  keep  for  a long  time.  It  is  absolutely 
necessary  to  prevent  mold  from  growing  on  the  surface 
of  the  brine  of  fermented  vegetables  by  the  addition 
of  paraffin  or  in  some  other  way,  as  described.  Pro- 
tection of  the  surface  of  salted  vegetables  is  desir- 
able, but  not  necessary  if  the  containers  are  covered  to 
prevent  the  evaporation  of  the  brine.  Practically  all 
of  the  trouble  with  the  fermented  or  salted  products 
may  be  traced  to  carelessness  in  protecting  the  surface 
of  the  brine.  In  case  mold  should  develop  upon  the 
surface,  or  the  brine  should  become  evaporated  so  that 
the  upper  layers  of  the  food  spoil,  this  does  not  mean 
necessarily  that  the  entire  contents  of  the  vessel 
has  spoiled,  even  though  the  upper  layers  may  have 
a very  disagreeable  odor.  The  molds  and  other 
organisms  which  cause  the  spoiling  do  not  penetrate 
rapidly  to  the  lower  layers,  and  by  carefully  remov- 
ing the  spoiled  material  from  the  top,  adding  a little 
fresh  brine  and  pouring  hot  paraffin  on  the  top,  the 
remainder  of  the  contents  of  the  vessel  may  be  saved. 
After  fermentation  has  ceased,  the  containers  of 
salted  and  fermented  vegetables  should  be  stored  in  a 
cool  place.  They  should  be  protected  from  rats,  mice, 
and  vermin,  which  might  eat  through  the  paraffin 
layer  and  get  at  the  contents. 

Preparation  of  Fermented  and  Salted  Vegetables  for 

the  Table 

Some  fermented  and  salted  vegetables,  like  cucum- 
bers, are  eaten  raw;  others,  like  cabbage  (sauerkraut), 
are  usually  cooked.  In  general  the  fermented  and 


FERMENTATION  AND  SALTING 


341 


salted  products  may  be  prepared  for  the  table  in  much 
the  same  manner  as  the  fresh  vegetables,  except  that 
before  being  cooked  they  should  be  soaked  in  fresh 
water  for  several  hours  or  longer,  if  necessary,  to 
remove  the  salt,  the  water  being  changed  several  times. 
In  some  cases  it  may  be  necessary  also  to  change 
the  water  once  or  twice  during  the  boiling  of  the  salted 
vegetables.  In  this,  one  should  be  guided  by  taste. 

Fermented  vegetables,  after  being  removed  from  the 
container,  should  be  rinsed  thoroughly  in  fresh  water 
and  then  cooked  without  soaking  if  a product  having 
a decidedly  acid  flavor  is  desired.  If  one  does  not 
desire  the  acid  flavor,  it  may  be  modifled  to  any  extent 
or  removed  almost  entirely  by  soaking  the  fermented 
vegetables  as  directed  above  for  the  salted  product. 

The  following  suggestions  and  recipes  are  given  as  a 
guide  in  the  preparation  of  salted  and  fermented  vege- 
tables for  the  table.  These  have  been  tested  and  found 
to  give  satisfactory  results. 

Dandelions,  Spinach,  Kale,  and  Other  Greens 

The  salted  greens,  after  they  have  been  soaked  to 
remove  the  salt,  may  be  boiled  with  fat  meat,  or 
boiled  plain,  served  with  a cream  sauce  and  garnished 
with  hard-boiled  eggs.  When  so  prepared  they  taste 
much  like  the  fresh  greens,  although,  naturally,  they 
lose  some  of  their  flavor  during  the  salting  and  fresh- 
ening process. 

The  fermented  greens  may  be  soaked  and  cooked 
in  the  same  way  as  the  salted  greens,  but,  in  general, 
it  is  desirable  to  cook  them  without  soaking  and  to 
preserve  the  acid  flavor,  which  is  very  similar  to 
that  of  the  fresh  greens  when  boiled  and  served  with 
vinegar. 


342 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


Beets 

Rinse  the  fermented  beets  and  boil  in  the  same 
manner  as  fresh  beets.  When  thus  prepared  they 
have  a flavor  which  is  not  unlike  the  common  pickled 
beets,  and  they  may  be  served  as  a pickle,  with  butter, 
or  used  in  the  preparation  of  salads,  vegetable  hashes, 
etc. 

String  Beans 

The  salted  string  beans  should  be  soaked  to  remove 
the  salt  and  then  cooked  in  any  of  the  ways  in  which 
fresh  string  beans  are  prepared.  The  fermented 
string  beans  may  be  cooked  without  soaking  and  served 
as  a vegetable  or  as  an  ingredient  of  a salad,  the  acid 
flavor  being  agreeable  to  many  persons.  Young 
and  tender  string  beans  may  be  fermented  and  eaten 
raw  in  the  same  way  as  cucumber  pickles. 

Corn 

To  prepare  the  fermented  or  salted  corn  for  the 
table,  rinse  it  thoroughly  and  soak  it  for  4 or  5 hours, 
changing  the  water  frequently.  In  general  it  will 
be  found  more  satisfactory  to  remove  practically 
all  of  the  acid  flavor  from  the  fermented  corn.  After 
soaking,  place  the  corn  in  cold  water  and  bring  to  boil, 
pour  off  the  water,  add  fresh  cold  water,  bring  to 
boil  again,  and  cook  until  tender.  The  cooked  salted 
or  fermented  corn  may  be  used  in  the  following  recipes 
which  are  given  below,  or  may  be  served  as  stewed 
corn  or  succotash. 

CORN  CHOWDER 

f pound  cold  beef,  or  1 cup  tomatoes. 

J pound  salt  pork  or  bacon.  3 tablespoons  flour. 

2 potatoes.  1 cup  milk  or  cream. 


FERMENTATION  AND  SALTING 


343 


1 onion.  1 teaspoon  salt. 

1 green  pepper.  I teaspoon  pepper. 

1|  cups  or  more  of  cooked  corn. 

Cut  the  meat  or  pork  into  cubes;  cover  well  with  water.  Add 
the  tomato  and  cook  slowly  for  about  two  hours.  Then  add 
the  potato,  onion,  pepper,  corn,  and  seasonings.  Cook  until 
the  vegetables  are  tender.  Mix  the  flour  with  a little  cold 
water,  add  to  the  other  ingredients  and  cook  slowly  for  5 or  10 
minutes.  Add  the  milk  or  cream;  serve  hot. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES  WITH  CORN 

2 cups  canned  tomatoes.  2 tablespoons  sugar. 

1 teaspoon  salt.  1 cup  bread  crumbs. 

1 teaspoon  pepper.  2 cups  salted  or  fermented  corn. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  the  greased  baking  dish  or  casserole  with 
a layer  of  bread  crumbs;  add  a layer  of  the  corn  and  one  of 
tomatoes.  Continue  this  until  all  materials  have  been  used  up, 
saving  a layer  of  bread  crumbs  for  the  top.  Dot  with  butter 
and  brown  in  a hot  oven. 

CORN  PUDDING 

2 eggs.  2 tablespoons  melted  butter 

1 pint  milk.  or  other  fat. 

1 tablespoon  sugar.  i teaspoon  salt. 

2 cups  cold  cooked  corn. 

Beat  the  eggs  until  light  and  add  the  sugar,  corn,  milk,  melted 
butter,  and  salt.  Pour  into  a buttered  baking  dish  and  bake 
in  a slow  oven  until  firm.  Skim  milk  may  be  used  in  this  dish. 

CORN  OMELET 

4 eggs.  1 tablespoon  butter. 

I teaspoon  salt.  1 cup  cold  cooked  corn. 

4 tablespoons  hot  water. 

Separate  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs.  To  the  yolks  add  the 
salt,  pepper,  and  hot  water,  beat  until  thick,  and  then  add  the 
corn.  Fold  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  into  the  first  mixture. 
Cook  the  omelet  slowly  in  a buttered  pan  until  a delicate  brown. 


344 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


CORN  FRITTERS 


cups  cooked  corn.  2 teaspoons  salt. 

1 cup  flour.  } teaspoon  paprika. 

1 teaspoon  baking  powder.  2 eggs. 


Chop  the  corn.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  chopped 
corn  and  the  well-beaten  egg  yolks,  and  then  fold  in  the  stifily- 
beaten  whites.  Bake  on  well-greased  griddle  or  in  a frying  pan 
until  a golden  brown.  Drain  on  brown  paper.  Serve  hot  with 
butter  or  sirup. 

CORN  WAFFLES 


If  cups  flour, 
f cup  cooked  corn. 

cups  milk. 

2 tablespoons  sugar. 


4 teaspoons  baking  powder, 
f teaspoon  salt. 

1 tablespoon  butter. 

1 egg. 


Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  corn  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Add  the  milk,  yolk  of  egg  well  beaten,  butter,  and  stiffly  beaten 
egg  white.  Bake  in  greased,  hot,  waffle  iron  until  golden  brown. 


Peas 


Salted  or  fermented  peas  should  be  soaked  to  remove 
most  of  the  salt  or  acid  flavor,  and  may  then  be  served 
in  the  same  way  as  fresh  green  peas.  The  following 
recipes  have  been  found  satisfactory  for  using  the  salted 
or  fermented  peas: 

PUREE  OF  PEAS 


2 cups  salted  or  fermented 
peas. 

J cup  whole  or  skim  milk. 
1 teaspoon  salt. 


1 tablespoon  butter  or  other 
fat. 

Paprika. 


Boil  the  peas  until  tender,  press  them  through  a sieve  to 
remove  skins,  and  put  into  a saucepan.  Add  | cup  warm  milk 
(or  skim  milk),  1 teaspoon  salt,  and  a little  paprika.  Mix  well 
and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Serve  hot. 


FERMENTATION  AND  SALTING 


345 


PEA  TIMBALES 

2 cups  salted  or  fermented  2 tablespoons  melted  butter 

peas.  or  other  fat. 

2 eggs.  i teaspoon  salt. 

Boil  the  peas  until  tender  and  rub  through  a sieve.  Add  the 
eggs  well  beaten,  salt,  a little  pepper,  and  a few  drops  of  onion 
juice.  Turn  into  greased  molds  and  cover  them  with  greased 
paper.  Set  the  molds  in  a pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  the 
oven  until  firm.  Serve  with  white  sauce. 


U.  S.  DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 
FARMERS’  BULLETIN  NO.  879 


HOME  STORAGE  OF  VEGETABLES 

JAMES  H.  BEATTIE 

Scientific  Assistant,  Oflace  of  Horticultural  and  Pomological 

Investigations 


Contribution  from  the  Bureau  of  Plant  Industry 
WM.  A.  TAYLOR,  Chief 


INTRODUCTION 

For  those  persons  who  are  fortunate  enough  to 
control  land  for  the  growing  of  vegetables  in  sufficient 
quantity  for  the  needs  of  the  family,  storage  will  prove 
an  economy.  Likewise,  it  will  often  prove  an  economy 
to  grow  late  vegetables  to  store.  Home  storage  is  of 
importance  at  all  times,  but  especially  so  if  the  price 
of  suitable  containers  for  use  in  canning  and  drying 
is  high.  Crops  of  suitable  sorts  that  mature  at  a 
season  when  they  can  be  preserved  by  storing,  should 
be  kept  in  their  natural  condition  instead  of  being 
canned  or  dried.  Not  only  is  it  possible  to  reduce  the 
cost  of  the  menu  materially  by  growing  and  storing 

346 


HOME  STORAGE  OF  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  347 

vegetables  for  home  use,  but  the  satisfaction  of  having 
a supply  of  fresh  vegetables  near  at  hand,  so  that 
regardless  of  markets  and  winter  temperatures  the 
list  may  be  varied,  is  something  that  can  not  be 
measured  in  dollars  and  cents. 

A half-acre  garden,  if  cared  for  properly,  will  produce 
far  more  vegetables  than  the  average  family  can  con- 
sume during  the  maturing  period  of  the  crops.  Only 
a small  portion  of  the  garden  should  be  devoted  to 
those  vegetables  which  must  be  used  as  soon  as  they 
reach  maturity.  Beets,  late  cabbage,  carrots,  celery, 
onions,  parsnips,  potatoes,  sweet  potatoes,  salsify  and 
turnips  may  be  stored  in  their  natural  condition,  and 
should  'be  grown,  to  the  extent  of  the  family  needs, 
for  storage  for  winter  use.  Beans  of  various  kinds, 
including  the  Limas,  may  be  stored  dry.  The  suc- 
cessful storage  of  vegetables  is  not  at  all  difficult; 
in  fact,  good  storage  facilities  already  exist  in  most 
homes,  it  being  only  necessary  to  make  use  of  the  cellar, 
the  attic,  a large  closet,  or  some  other  part  of  the 
dwelling,  depending  upon  the  character  of  the  prod- 
uct to  be  stored. 

Types  of  Storage 

A Storage  Room  in  the  Basement  of  the  Dwelling 

A cool,  well-ventilated  cellar  under  the  dwelling  offers 
good  conditions  for  the  storage  of  vegetables.  Many 
cellars  are  not  well  suited  for  storing  vegetables  because 
of  poor  insulation  or  lack  of  ventilation.  Cellars 
containing  a furnace  for  heating  the  dwelling,  usually 
are  too  warm  and  too  dry  for  the  storage  of  root  crops. 
It  is  often  possible,  however,  to  partition  off  a room, 
either  in  one  corner  or  at  one  end  of  the  cellar,  where 
the  temperature  may  be  controlled  by  means  of  out- 


348 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


side  windows.  At  least  one  window  is  necessary,  and 
two  or  more  are  desirable  for  admitting  light  and  for 
ventilation. 

CONSTHtrCTION  OF  THE  STOEAGE  BOOM 

The  size  of  the  storage  room  should  be  determined 
by  the  space  available  and  the  amount  of  material  to 
be  stored.  Natural  earth  makes  a better  floor  than 
concrete  or  brick,  as  a certain  .amount  of  moisture  is 
desirable.  The  walls  of  the  storage  room  should  be 
parallel  to  the  walls  of  the  cellar.  Lay  2-  by  4-inch 
scantling  flat  on  the  floor;  and  secure  them  with  pegs 
driven  into  the  floor,  or  by  nailing  them  to  the  top  of 
short  posts  set  in  the  ground.  Set  2-  by  4-inch  studding 
from  the  sill  to  the  ceiling,  spacing  them  16  inches  apart 
from  center  to  center.  Locate  the  door  to  the  storage 
room  at  the  most  convenient  point,  making  it  large 
enough  to  admit  barrels,  boxes,  etc.,  a good  size  being 
2|  feet  wide  by  65  feet  high.  Set  the  studs  on  either 
side  of  the  door  32  inches  apart,  which  will  allow  for 
the  door  and  the  frame.  Put  a header  over  the  door, 
allowing  1 inch  for  the  frame  and  f inch  for  the  sill 
at  the  bottom.  Set  the  studs  against  the  walls  where 
the  cellar  walls  and  storage-room  walls  meet.  Care 
exercised  in  making  the  frame  square  and  plumb 
will  enable  the  builder  to  get  the  structure  tight  with  a 
minimum  of  labor.  A good  room  is  made  by  covering 
the  studding  on  the  outside  with  tongue-and-groove’ 
material,  but  a better  way  is  to  sheathe  the  outside  with 
plain  lumber,  tack  building  paper  on  this,  and  side 
with  tongue-and-groove  material.  This  construction, 
in  connection  with  lath  and  plaster  or  wall  board  on  the 
inside,  makes  an  excellent  room. 

Ventilation  may  be  secured  by  opening  one  or  more 


HOME  Storage  of  vegetables,  etc.  349 

windows.  An  air  duct  constructed  of  wood,  metal, 
or  terra  cotta,  and  fitted  in  one  of  the  windows,  is 
desirable,  as  it  permits  the  cool  air  to  enter  at  the  bot- 
tom of  the  room.  Two  or  more  joints  of  6-inch  stove- 
pipe, one  with  a darhper  and  an  elbow,  may  be  used. 
A piece  of  board  with  a hole  the  size  of  the  pipe  is 
fitted  in  the  window  in  place  of  one  of  the  panes  of 
glass.  Another  pane  of  glass  may  be  removed  from  the 
sash  and  a small  hinged  door  fitted  in  its  place,  which, 
when  opened,  allows  the  heated  air  to  escape.  In 
cold  weather  both  the  hinged  door  and  the  damper 
in  the  stovepipe  must  be  closed.  The  windows  in  the 
storage  room  should  be  darkened  in  order  to  protect 
the  vegetables  from  the  light. 

Barrels,  crates,  boxes,  or  bins  may  be  used  as  con- 
tainers for  the  various  vegetables,  but  movable  con- 
tainers are  preferable  to  built-in  bins,  as  it  is  possible^ 
to  remove  them  for  cleaning.  It  is  advisable  to  con- 
struct shelves  or  a slat  floor  to  keep  the  crates,  boxes, 
baskets,  and  other  containers  off  the  ground.  Thi^ 
is  highly  desirable,  to  insure  a free  circulation  of  air 
and  to  prevent  the  containers  from  harboring  mice, 
rats,  and  other  vermin.  The  shelves  for  canned 
goods  along  one  side  of  the  room  need  not  be  more 
than  6 inches  wide. 

Outdoor  Storage  Cellars 

Outdoor  storage  cellars  or  caves  are  excellent  for  the 
storage  of  many  vegetables.  They  are  particularly 
desirable  on  the  farm,  as  they  afford  convenient  and 
inexpensive  storage  facilities  for  surplus  vegetable 
crops  that  otherwise  might  be  lost.  They  possess  all 
the  advantages  of  the  storage  room  in  the  basement 
and  are  superior  in  many  respects.  The  outdoor 


350 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


storage  cellar  can  be  maintained  at  a uniform  tempera- 
ture over  a long  period.  It  is  possible  to  keep  the 
cellar  cool,  and  quickly  to  reduce  the  temperature  of 
the  stored  product  to  the  desired  point  for  safe  storage, 
by  opening  the  door  during  the  night  and  closing  it 
in  the  morning  before  the  air  becomes  warm.  All 
ventilators  should  likewise  be  kept  tightly  closed 
until  the  outside  air  is  again  cooler  than  that  within 
the  cellar,  when  they  should  be  opened,  unless  the  out- 
side temperature  is  so  low  as  to  be  dangerous.  This 
safeguards  the  product  and  adds  to  the  efficiency  of 
the  storage  chamber.  Vegetables  can  be  more  con- 
veniently placed  in  such  a cellar  than  in  the  storage 
room  in  the  basement  of  a dwelling. 

When  the  chief  use  of  the  outdoor  storage  cellar 
is  for  storing  turnips,  beets,  carrots,  and  other  root 
crops  commonly  used  as  stock  food,  it  should  be  lo- 
cated near  the  stable,  where  the  material  will  be  con- 
venient for  winter  feeding.  When  it  is  to  be  used 
for  vegetables  for  the  table,  the  cellar  should  be  acces- 
sible from  the  kitchen  at  all  times.  If  apples  or  other 
fruits  are  to  be  stored  in  an  outdoor  storage  cellar 
it  is  desirable  to  have  a two-compartment  cellar, 
one  for  vegetables  and  one  for  apples,  with  a ventilating 
apparatus  in  each  compartment. 

CONSTEUCTION  OP  THE  OUTDOOR  STORAGE  CELLAR 

As  the  root  cellar  must  be  weatherproof,  that  is, 
capable  of  being  kept  free  from  moisture  and  free  from 
frost,  its  type  and  construction  vary  with  the  geo- 
graphical location.  In  the  southern  portion  of  the 
country  the  structure  is  usually  entirely  above  ground, 
and  is  protected  by  only  a few  inches  of  sod  and 
with  straw,  leaves,  etc.  In  northern  sections  outdoor 


HOME  STORAGE  OF  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  '351 


storage  cellars  are  made  almost  entirely  below  ground 
and  covered  with  a foot  or  two  of  earth. 

STORAGE  IN  REGIONS  OF  MILD  WINTERS 

An  aboveground  storage  cellar  suited  to  conditions 
in  southern  sections  of  the  United  States  may  be 
built  on  a well-drained  site  at  slight  expense.  A row 
of  posts  may  be  set  5 or  6 feet  apart,  extending  7 or 
8 feet  above  the  surface  of  the  ground,  with  a ridge- 
pole placed  on  top  of  them.  Against  each  side  of  the 
ridgepole  a row  of  planks  or  puncheons  is  placed,  with 
their  opposite  ends  resting  in  a shallow  trench  4 or  5 
feet  from  the  line  of  posts.  The  ends  are  boarded  up, 
a door  being  provided  in  one  end  of  the  structure,  and 
the  roof  covered  with  sod  to  a depth  of  5 or  6 inches. 

STORAGE  IN  REGIONS  OP  SEVERE  FREEZES 

In  sections  where  low  temperatures  prevail  it  is 
necessary  to  insulate  the  storage  house,  so  that  the 
vegetables  will  not  freeze.  An  aboveground  type  of 
storage  house  much  used  in  many  sections  of  the 
North  has  thick  walls  filled  with  insulating  material, 
such  as  sawdust  or  shavings.  The  construction  is  of 
frame,  and  the  walls  are  usually  10  to  12  inches  thick. 
Both  the  inside  and  the  outside  walls  are  sheathed  with 
matched  lumber  so  as  to  make  them  air-tight.  The 
rafters  are  ceiled  on  the  under  side  with  the  same 
material  and  the  space  between  the  rafters  filled  with 
dry  insulating  material.  The  use  of  building  paper 
in  the  roof  and  walls  of  the  storage  house  is  of  great 
assistance  in  insulating.  Ventilation  is  provided  in 
the  same  manner  as  in  the  outdoor  storage  cellar  built 
of  concrete. 


352 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


A type  of  storage  cellar  much  used  in  northern  sec- 
tions of  the  country  is  built  partly  under  ground. 
The  walls  are  of  masonry  and  extend  to  a point  just 
above  the  surface  of  the  ground.  On  these  walls,  plates 
are  set  and  a roof  of  frame  construction  erected.  The 
roof  structure  is  ceiled  on  the  under  side  of  the  rafters, 
and  some  suitable  insulating  material,  such  as  dry 
sawdust  or  shavings,  packed  in  the  space  between  the 
rafters;  and  then  the  sheathing,  paper,  and  roofing 
material  are  applied  as  in  the  case  of  the  aboveground 
type  of  storage  cellar  described  in  the  previous  para- 
graph. This  type  of  structure  is  preferable  in  many 
respects  to  the  aboveground  type,  as  it  is  easier  to 
maintain  the  temperature  at  the  proper  point  and  its 
insulation  is  a comparatively  easy  matter. 

Protection  from  freezing  may  be  secured  with  a sim- 
pler type  of  structure  by  making  it  entirely  under 
ground.  In  order  to  avoid  steps  down  to  the  level  of 
the  floor,  with  the  consequent  extra  labor  in  storing 
and  removing  the  vegetables,  a sidehill  location  is 
desirable. 

The  excavation  in  the  hill  should  be  of  the  approxi- 
mate size  of  the  cellar,  using  the  dirt  for  covering  the  roof 
and  for  banking  the  sides  of  the  structure.  A frame 
is  erected  by  setting  two  rows  of  posts  of  uniform  height 
in  the  bottom  of  the  pit  near  the  dirt  walls,  and  a third 
line  of  posts,  about  5 feet  higher,  through  the  center  of 
the  pit.  These  posts  serve  as  supports  for  the  planks  or 
puncheons  forming  the  roof  of  the  structure,  as  with  the 
above-ground  type  of  storage  cellar  already  described. 
The  door  is  placed  at  one  end  and  a ventilator  put  in 
the  roof.  The  whole  structure,  with  the  exception  of 
the  portion  occupied  by  the  door,  is  covered  with  dirt 
and  sod.  The  thickness  of  the  covering  must  be  deter- 


HOME  STORAGE  OF  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  353 

i 

mined  by  the  location;  the  colder  the  climate  the 
thicker  the  covering.  The  dirt  covering  may  be  sup- 
plemented in  winter  by  a layer  of  manure,  straw,  corn 
fodder,  etc.  Outdoor  storage  cellars  usually  are  left 
with  dirt  floors,  as  a certain  degree  of  moisture  is  desir- 
able. These  cellars  may  also  be  made  of  concrete, 
brick,  hollow  tile,  stone,  or  other  material. 

OUTDOOR  STORAGE  CELLARS  BUILT  OF  CONCRETE 

The  type  of  outdoor  storage  cellar  described  above, 
while  low  in  first  cost,  is  short  lived,  as  the  conditions 
in  the  cellar  are  favorable  to  the  decay  of  wood.  The 
concrete  storage  cellar,  although  rather  high  in  first 
cost,  as  compared  with  wood,  is  a permanent  structure. 
Concrete  possesses  several  advantages  over  brick, 
stone,  or  other  decay-resisting  materials.  In  the 
construction  of  a small  structure  suitable  for  the  home, 
it  is  possible  to  make  the  roof  self-supporting  and  to 
employ  unskilled  labor,  thus  lessening  the  cost.  It 
is  a simple  matter  to  waterproof  concrete,  a feature 
highly  desirable  in  a storage  cellar. 

For  detailed  information  in  reference  to  the  mixing 
and  handling  of  concrete,  the  reader  is  referred  to 
Farmers’  Bulletin  461,  entitled  The  Use  of  Concrete 
on  the  Farm.” 

The  site  for  the  concrete  storage  cellar  should  be 
selected  with  the  same  considerations  in  mind  as  for 
the  v/ood-frame  cellar,  namely,  a well-drained  con- 
venient location,  preferably  a sidehill,  into  which  it 
may  be  built.  The  excavation  should  be  just  large 
enough  for  the  dirt  walls  to  serve  as  the  outside  form 
for  the  concrete.  For  that  portion  of  the  wall  which 
is  above  the  surface  of  the  ground,  a board  form  must 
be  used.  The  inside  form  usually  is  made  of  boards 


354 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


held  in  place  by  scantling  spaced  about  18  inches 
apart.  Temporary  supports  should  be  placed  across 
the  top  to  carry  the  form,  so  that  it  will  be  of  size 
and  shape  desired.  The  side  walls  and  roof  should 
be  so  constructed  that  there  will  be  no  joints  to  weaken 
the  structure.  The  form  for  the  ceiling  may  be 
slightly  arched  by  setting  a temporary  line  of  posts 
through  the  middle  of  the  excavation.  A plate 
placed  on  these  posts  a few  inches  higher  than  the  height 
of  the  side  walls,  will  allow  the  form  boards  to  be 
laid  crosswise  of  the  cellar,  springing  the  ends  down 
and  securing  them  to  the  forms  for  the  inside  of  the 
walls.  An  arch  a few  inches  high  makes  a strong  roof 
and  helps  in  ventilating  the  cellar. 

The  whole  structure,  with  the  exception  of  the  portion 
occupied  by  the  door,  is  covered  with  earth  to  prevent 
freezing,  the  thickness  of  the  earth  covering  depending 
upon  the  geographical  location.  In  the  colder  sections 
of  the  country  2 or  3 feet  is  not  too  much,  and  addi- 
tional protection  may  be  given  by  using  a supple- 
mentary covering  of  straw,  fodder,  or  manure.  In 
severely  cold  weather,  both  the  top  and  bottom  air 
ducts  must  be  closed.  It  is  well  to  cover  the  outside 
ends  of  the  air  inlets  by  woven  wire  in  order  to  prevent 
small  animals  from  entering  the  storage  cellar. 

A popular  type  of  cellar  is  10  feet  wide,  12  feet  long, 
and  8 feet  high  and  will  contain  the  products  of  an  acre 
garden.  The  walls  are  of  6-inch  concrete  reinforced 
by  |-inch  iron  rods.  The  floor  is  earth,  as  this  permits 
good  moisture  conditions  for  the  storage  of  vegetables. 
The  structure  is  provided  with  a ventilating  flue  in 
the  roof  and  an  air  inlet  in  the  floor  for  the  admis- 
sion of  cool  air. 

The  storage  capacity  may  be  increased  by  making 


HOME  STORAGE  OF  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  355 


the  structure  longer,  but  when  this  is  done  additional 
ventilators  must  be  provided.  If  the  width  is  increased, 
either  middle  piers  should  be  used  to  assist  in  carrying 
the  roof,  or  the  roof  should  be  arched.  A cellar  6 
feet  wide,  8 feet  long,  and  7 feet  high  will  provide  the 
necessary  storage  space  for  the  products  of  a small 
home  garden  and  may  be  built  in  the  same  manner 
as  the  one  described  above. 

THE  STORAGE  CELLAR  UNDER  AN  OUTBUILDING 

Sometimes  it  is  possible  to  build  a storage  cellar  as 
the  lower  story  of,  and  foundation  for,  an  outbuilding. 
When  this  is  done  it  is  desirable  to  have  the  cellar 
almost  entirely  under  ground  and  well  insulated  by 
banking  the  outside  walls  with  dirt.  The  ceiling  of  the 
cellar  may  be  made  frostproof  by  constructing  a double 
wall  to  be  filled  with  dry  sawdust,  shavings,  or  other 
insulating  material.  Concrete  is  a good  material  of 
which  to  construct  the  side  walls  of  the  cellar,  although 
brick,  stone,  tile,  etc.,  may  be  used.  The  entrance  may 
be  through  the  floor  of  the  room  above,  or  through  an 
outside  door  placed  in  one  end  of  the  cellar  and  reached 
by  steps  or  a grade  entrance.  Ventilation  may  be 
secured  by  placing  a shaft  from  the  ceiling  of  the  cellar 
through  the  room  above  to  the  roof,  or  by  placing  the 
ventilators  in  the  side  walls  near  the  ceiling.  The 
inlet  ducts  should  be  put  in  the  floor,  as  in  other  out- 
door concrete  cellars,  and  their  outer  ends  covered  with 
wire  screen. 

Storage  in  Banks  or  Pits 

Outside  banks  or  pits  are  used  very  generally  for 
keeping  vegetables.  The  conical  pit  is  used  commonly 
for  such  vegetables  as  potatoes,  carrots,  beets,  turnips. 


356 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


salsify,  parsnips,  and  heads  of  cabbage;  and  is  con- 
structed as  follows:  A well-drained  location  should 
be  chosen  and  the  product  piled  on  the  surface  of  the 
ground;  or  a shallow  excavation  may  be  made  of  suit- 
able size  and  6 or  8 inches  deep,  which  may  be  lined 
with  straw,  leaves,  or  similar  material,  and  the  vege- 
tables placed  on  the  litter  in  a conical  pile.  The  vege- 
tables should  then  be  covered  with  straw  or  similar 
material  and  finally  with  earth,  to  a depth  of  2 or  3 
inches.  As  winter  approaches,  the  dirt  covering  should 
be  increased  until  it  is  several  inches  thick.  The  depth 
of  the  earth  covering  is  determined  by  the  severity  of 
the  winters  in  the  particular  locality.  It  is  well  to 
cover  the  pits  with  straw,  corn  fodder,  or  manure 
during  severely  cold  weather. 

The  amount  of  ventilation  necessary  will  depend  upon 
the  size  of  the  pit.  Small  pits  containing  but  a few 
bushels  of  vegetables  will  receive  sufiicient  ventilation 
if  the  straw  between  the  vegetables  and  dirt  is  allowed 
to  extend  through  the  dirt  at  the  apex  of  the  pile.  This 
should  be  covered  with  a board  or  piece  of  tin  held  in 
place  by  a stone  to  protect  it  from  rain.  In  larger  pits 
ventilation  may  be  secured  by  placing  two  or  three 
pieces  of  rough  boards  or  stakes  up  through  the  center 
of  the  pile  of  vegetables,  so  that  a flue  is  formed.  This 
flue  is  capped  by  a trough  formed  of  two  pieces  of  board 
nailed  together  at  right  angles. 

Vegetables  keep  very  well  in  sucn  pits,  but  it  is 
difficult  to  get  them  out  in  cold  weather,  so  that  when 
a pit  is  opened  it  is  desirable  to  remove  its  entire  con- 
tents at  once.  For  this  reason  it  is  advisable  to  con- 
struct several  small  pits  rather  than  one  large  one, 
and  instead  of  storing  each  crop  in  a pit  by  itself  it  is 
better  to  place  a small  quantity  of  several  kinds  of 


HOME  STORAGE  OF  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  357 

vegetables  in  the  same  pit,  so  that  it  will  be  necessary 
to  open  only  one  bank  to  get  a supply  of  all  of  them. ' 
In  storing  several  crops  in  the  same  bank,  it  is  a good 
plan  to  separate  them  with  straw,  leaves,  or  other 
material.  The  vegetables  from  the  small  pit  may  be 
placed  temporarily  in  the  storage  room  in  the  base- 
ment, where  they  will  be  easily  accessible  as  needed 
for  the  table. 

Storage  of  Various  Vegetables 
Beans  and  Peas 

Beans  may  be  kept  for  winter  use  by  picking  the  pods 
as  soon  as  they  are  mature  and  spreading  them  in  a 
warm,  dry  place,  such  as  an  attic  floor,  until  the  beans 
are  thoroughly  dry.  Then  shell,  and  store  in  bags  hung 
in  a dry,  well-ventilated  place  until  needed.  Allow 
navy  and  other  bush  beans  to  mature  on  the  vines  until 
a maximum  number  of  pods  are  ripe;  then  pull  the 
whole  plant  and  cure  it  like  hay.  After  thorough 
drying,  thrash  the  beans,  and  store  as  suggested 
above. 

Peas  may  be  treated  hke  bush  beans  and  stored  in 
the  same  manner. 

Late  Beets 

Storage  for  beets  may  be  of  any  of  the  types  described. 
The  beets  should  be  pulled  and  the  tops  cut  off  when 
the  soil  is  dry.  If  they  are  to  be  kept  in  the  storage 
room  in  the  basement  or  in  an  outdoor  storage  cellar, 
they  should  be  placed  in  ventilated  barrels,  loose 
boxes,  or,  better  still,  in  crates.  If  sufficient  space  is 
available  in  the  cellar,  it  is  a good  plan  simply  to  place 
them  in  small  piles  along  the  wall.  Storage  in  large 


358 


’ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


piles"  should  be  avoided,  as  it  is  liable  to  cause  heating 
and  decay. 

For  storage  in  banks  or  pits,  prepare  the  beets  as  for 
storage  in  the  room  in  the  basement  or  in  the  out- 
door cellar.  Select  a well-drained  location,  make  a 
shallow  excavation,  about  6 inches  deep,  hne  it  with 
straw,  hay,  leaves,  or  similar  material,  and  place  the 
beets  in  a conical  pile  on  the  lining.  Make  the  bottom 
of  the  pile  about  the  same  size  as  but  not  larger  than  the 
bottom  of  the  excavation.  Cover  the  beets  with  the 
same  material  as  that  used  for  lining  the  bottom  of 
the  pit,  and  carry  it  up  several  inches  above  the  apex 
of  the  pile  of  vegetables,  having  it  extend  through  the 
dirt  covering.  This  serves  as  a ventilating  flue,  and 
it  should  be  covered  with  a piece  of  tin  or  a short 
board  as  a protection  from  rain.  The  dirt  covering 
should  be  2 or  3 inches  thick  when  the  vegetables  are 
stored,  and  it  should  be  increased  as  severely-cold 
weather  approaches,  until  it  is  a foot  or  more  in  thick- 
ness. In  finishing  the  pit,  the  dirt  should  be  firmed  with 
the  back  of  the  shovel  in  order  to  make  it  as  nearly 
waterproof  as  possible. 

The  shallow  trench  around  the  base  of  the  pit  should 
have  an  outlet  for  carrying  off  the  water.  Supple- 
ment the  dirt  covering  with  manure,  straw,  corn  fodder, 
or  other  protecting  material.  Use  several  small  pits 
instead  of  one  large  one,  as  vegetables  keep  better 
in  small  pits  and  the  entire  contents  may  be  removed 
when  the  pit  is  opened. 

Late  Cabbages 

Heads  of  late  cabbage  may  be  cut  and  stored  in 
conical  pits  in  the  same  manner  as  beets.  Another 


HOME  STORAGE  OF  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  359 


common  and  very  satisfactory  method  is  to  pull  the 
plants,  roots  and  all,  and  place  them  in  a long  pit 
with  the  heads  down.  A few  heads  may  be  removed 
from  time  to  time  without  disturbing  the  remainder 
of  the  pit.  As  slight  freezing  does  not  injure  the  cab- 
bage, the  covering  of  the  pit  need  not  be  as  thick  as  for 
other  vegetables. 

Another  good  method  of  storing  cabbage  is  as  fol- 
lows: The  plants  are  pulled,  roots  and  all,  and  set 
side  by  side,  with  the  roots  down,  in  a shallow  trench, 
the  length  of  which  corresponds  to  the  width  of  the  bed. 
The  bed  may  be  any  width  up  to  8 or  10  feet  and  as 
long  as  necessary  to  hold  the  number  of  cabbages  to  be 
stored.  Cover  the  roots  with  earth.  Around  the  bed 
erect  a frame  of  rails,  boards,  or  poles,  or  consisting  of 
a row  of  stakes  driven  into  the  ground,  so  that  an  inclo- 
sure about  2 feet  in  height  is  formed.  Bank  the  outside 
of  this  frame  with  dirt,  and  place  poles  across  the  top, 
covering  them  with  straw,  hay,  or  corn  fodder.  Make 
provision  for  removing  portions  of  the  stored  product 
from  one  end  of  the  pit.  This  type  of  storage  is  inex- 
pensive and  gives  good  results.  When  the  heads  are 
cut,  leave  the  roots  in  position,  and  in  the  spring  these 
roots  will  sprout  and  supply  the  family  with  an  abun- 
dance of  greens.  A large  percentage  of  the  cabbage 
sprouts  found  on  the  market  are  produced  in  this 
way. 

Heads  of  cabbage  may  be  laid  in  rows  on  shelves 
in  an  outdoor  storage  cellar,  but  not  in  a storage  room  in 
the  basement  of  a dwelling,  as  the  odor  is  likely  to 
penetrate  through  the  house. 

For  information  regarding  the  storage  of  cabbage 
on  a large  scale,  see  Farmers’  Bulletin  433,  entitled 
“ Cabbage.” 


360 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE, 


Carrots 

Carrots  may  be  stored  in  a storage  room  in  the  base- 
ment, in  outdoor  storage  cellars,  or  in  banks  or  pits, 
and  are  handled  in  the  same  way  as  beets.  It  is  advis- 
able to  place  a small  quantity  in  the  storage  room  in 
the  basement  or  in  the  storage  cellar,  and  the  remainder 
in  banks  or  pits.  They  are  not  injured  by  slight 
freezing;  hence  need  not  be  covered  as  deeply  as 
potatoes. 

Late  Celery 

Celery  may  be  stored  for  a time  in  the  position  where 
grown,  by  placing  enough  earth  around  the  base  of  the 
plants  to  hold  them  in  good  form.  Allow  them  to 
remain  in  this  condition  until  just  before  severe  freez- 
ing occurs;  then  bank  the  earth  up  to  the  very  tops  of 
the  plants,  almost  covering  them,  and  as  the  weather 
becomes  colder  cover  the  ridge  with  coarse  manure, 
straw,  or  corn  fodder,  held  in  place  by  means  of  stakes 
or  boards.  The  celery  may  be  removed  as  needed, 
but  this  method  is  open  to  the  objection  that  it  is  hard 
to  get  the  celery  out  when  the  ground  is  frozen. 

Another  method  of  storing  celery  is  to  excavate  a 
pit  10  to  12  inches  wide  to  a depth  of  about  24  inches 
and  of  any  desired  length;  thoroughly  loosen  the  soil 
in  the  bottom,  or  shovel  in  loose  topsoil  to  form  a bed 
in  which  to  set  the  roots  of  the  celery;  and  pack  this 
trench  with  fully  grown  plants,  placing  the  roots  close 
together  with  considerable  soil  adhering  to  them. 
Water  the  celery  as  it  is  placed  in  the  trench  and  allow 
the  trench  to  remain  open  long  enough  for  the  tops 
to  become  dry.  Unless  the  soil  is  very  dry  at  the  time 
of  storing,  or  extended  warm  weather  should  follow,  it 
will  not  be  necessary  to  apply  more  water.  Place 
a 12-inch  board  on  edge  along  one  side  of  the  trench. 


HOME  STORAGE  OF  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  361 


and  bank  it  with  the  surplus  earth;  cover  the  trench 
with  a roof  of  boards,  straw  on  poles,  or  cornstalks 
from  which  the  tops  have  been  removed,  placing 
the  stalks  across  the  pit  with  one  end  resting  on  the 
board  and  the  other  on  the  ground ; spread  over  this  a 
light  covering  of  straw  or  other  material  which  will 
pack  closely,  and  as  the  weather  becomes  colder  in- 
crease the  covering  to  keep  out  the  frost.  Celery 
stored  in  this  manner  will  keep  until  late  in  the  winter. 
This  method,  because  of  its  simplicity,  is  recommended 
for  the  farmer  and  small  grower. 

The  unused  pit  of  a permanent  hotbed  may  be  utilized 
as  a storage  place  for  celery,  by  removing  the  surplus 
earth  and  substituting  a covering  of  boards  for  the 
sash.  Store  the  celery  in  the  same  manner  as  in  the 
trench,  and  cover  the  bed  with  any  material  which 
will  keep  out  frost. 

Celery  may  be  stored  on  the  floor  of  a storage  room 
in  the  basement  of  a dwelling  or  in  an  outdoor  stor- 
age cellar.  Take  up  the  plants  just  before  freezing 
occurs,  with  considerable  earth  adhering,  and  set  them 
on  the  floor  with  the  roots  packed  together  as  closely 
as  possible.  If  moderately  moist,  the  celery  will  keep 
well  under  the  conditions  found  in  most  storage  cellars. 
Celery  should  not  be  stored  in  the  same  cellar  as  tur- 
nips or  cabbage,  as  it  will  absorb  the  odor  of  these 
vegetables,  ruining  its  flavor. 

For  further  information  regarding  the  cultivation 
and  storage  of  celery,  see  Farmers’  Bulletin  282,  en- 
titled Celery.” 

Onions 

To  keep  well,  onions  must  be  mature  and  thoroughly 
dry.  Put  them  in  ventilated  barrels,  baskets,  crates, 


362 


ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 


or  loosely  woven  bags,  as  good  ventilation  is  essential 
to  the  keeping  of  onions.  A dry,  well-ventilated  place, 
such  as  an  attic,  furnishes  a good  storage  space  for 
onions,  as  slight  freezing  does  not  injure  them,  provided 
they  are  not  handled  while  frozen. 

For  further  information  regarding  the  storage  of 
onions,  see  Farmers’  Bulletin  354,  entitled  “ Onion 
Culture.” 

Parsnips 

Parsnips  may  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the  ground 
and  dug  as  needed,  as  freezing  does  not  injure  them. 
However,  as  it  is  a difficult  matter  to  dig  them  when 
the  ground  is  frozen,  it  is  advisable  to  store  a small 
quantity  in  the  storage  room  in  the  basement  of  the 
dwelhng,  or  in  the  outdoor  storage  cellar,  for  use  during 
the  period  when  the  ground  is  frozen.  Parsnips  may 
be  stored  in  the  same  manner  as  beets  and  carrots. 

Potatoes,  Irish 

The  Irish  potato  is  the  most  important  vegetable  in 
the  northern  portions  of  the  United  States  and  is  stored 
in  large  quantities  for  winter  use.  It  may  be  kept  in 
the  storage  room  in  the  basement,  in  outdoor  storage 
cellars,  and  in  banks  or  pits.  When  stored  in  cellars, 
the  potatoes  may  be  put  into  barrels,  boxes,  baskets, 
crates,  bins,  or  on  the  floor,  but  must  be  protected  from 
the  light.  When  stored  in  banks  or  pits  they  are 
handled  in  the  same  way  as  beets,  carrots,  etc.  Pota- 
toes must  be  protected  from  freezing,  and  before 
winter  sets  in,  the  pit  must  be  covered  with  manure, 
straw,  or  other  material  in  addition  to  several  inches 
of  earth.  It  is  a good  plan  to  place  the  major  portion 
of  the  crop  in  banks  or  pits,  and  a small  quantity  in 


HOME  STORAGE  OF  VEGETABLES,  ETC.  363 


the  storage  room  in  the  basement  or  in  the  outdoor 
storage  cellar,  for  immediate  use. 

For  more  detailed  information  on  the  storage  of  pota- 
toes, read  Farmers’  Bulletin  847,  entitled  “ Potato 
Storage  and  Storage  Houses.” 

Potatoes,  Sweet 

Sweet  potatoes  should  be  mature  when  dug,  and 
should  be  left  exposed  for  a few  hours  to  dry  off  the 
surface  moisture  before  being  placed  in  storage.  They 
should  be  handled  carefully  at  all  times,  as  they  are 
bruised  easily.  This  crop  may  be  kept  in  pits  or  banks 
or  in  outdoor  storage  cellars,  but  a warm,  dry  place 
is  preferable.  When  stored  in  pits  or  banks,  sweet 
potatoes  are  handled  in  much  the  same  way  as  beets  or 
other  root  crops.  When  kept  in  a specially  constructed 
storage  house,  either  in  bulk  or  in  crates,  the  pota- 
toes should  be  cured  for  about  10  days  or  2 weeks  at 
a temperature  of  75°  to  80°  F.  After  the  curing 
period  the  temperature  should  be  reduced  gradually  to 
about  55°  F.  and  maintained  at  that  point,  or  as  near 
it  as  practicable,  for  the  remainder  of  the  storage 
period.  When  well  matured  before  digging,  carefully 
handled,  well  cured,  and  held  at  a uniform  temperature 
of  about  55°  F.,  sweet  potatoes  may  be  kept  throughout 
the  winter  and  spring.  When  only  a few  bushels  of 
sweet  potatoes  are  to  be  stored,  they  may  be  placed  in 
the  basement  near  the  furnace,  on  a shelf  near  the 
kitchen  stove,  near  the  chimney  on  the  second  floor, 
or  even  in  the  attic. 

For  more  detailed  information  on  the  storage  of 
sweet  potatoes,  read  Farmers’  Bulletin  548,  entitled 
“ Storing  and  Marketing  Sweet  Potatoes.” 


364  ADVICE  TO  THE  HOUSEWIFE 

Pumpkins  and  Squashes 

Pumpkins  and  squashes  may  be  kept  for  winter  use 
in  the  storage  room  in  the  basement  or  in  dry,  well- 
ventilated  cellars,  but  a dry,  aboveground,  frostproof 
place  is  best.  Put  them  in  rows  on  shelves  so  that  they 
are  not  in  contact  with  each  other.  If  the  temperature 
is  maintained  at  about  40°  F.,  late-maturing  varieties 
of  these  vegetables  will  keep  until  late  in  the  winter. 

Salsify 

Salsify  may  be  stored  in  the  same  way  as  beets, 
carrots,  and  parsnips. 

Late  Turnips 

Turnips  will  withstand  hard  frost,  but  alternate 
freezing  and  thawing  injures  them.  Gather,  top, 
and  store  the  roots  in  banks  or  pits,  or  in  an  outdoor 
storage  cellar.  Do  not  place  them  in  the  storage 
room  in  the  basement  of  the  dwelling,  as  they  give  off 
odors  that  penetrate  throughout  the  house. 

Storage  of  Apples 

Apples  may  be  kept  in  the  storage  room  in  the  base- 
ment of  the  dwelling,  in  outdoor  storage  cellars,  and 
in  banks  or  pits.  Conditions  suitable  for  the  keeping 
of  potatoes  answer  fairly  well  for  apples.  Under 
some  conditions  it  will  be  an  advantage  to  store  part 
of  the  crop  in  the  cellar,  and  the  late-keeping  varie- 
ties suitable  for  spring  use  in  outdoor  banks  or  pits. 

For  further  discussion  of  the  storage  of  apples,  see 
Farmers’  Bulletin  852,  entitled  “ Management  of 
Common  Storage  Houses  for  Apples  in  the  Pacific 
Northwest.” 


MEMORANDUM 


MEMORANDUM 


MEMORANDUM 


MEMORANDUM 


MEMORANDUM 


MEMORANDUM 


MEMORANDUM 


MEMORANDUM 


y.vi- 


■ a -v 


•i>*  w'*' 

V . •-. -i  v ' 


4-  >.,.  , ; ' ■ 


■ t 
/ 


? .;- 


1 


•■>• 


'«■»■•  •’if'  ■ (f\  •,*  , 


i 


,aAN  2 2 1918 


