Historic,  Archive  Document 


Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current  scientific 
knowledge,  policies,  or  practices 


Mf/t 

I 


E35S5 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


•Tl 


THE  MACMILLAN  COMPANY 

NEW  YORK  •  BOSTON  •  CHICAGO  •  DALLAS 
ATLANTA  •  SAN  FRANCISCO 

MACMILLAN  &  CO.,  Limited 

LONDON  •  BOMBAY  •  CALCUTTA 
MELBOURNE 

THE  MACMILLAN  CO.  OF  CANADA,  Ltd. 


TORONTO 


Plate  I. — Dignified  houses,  in  plaster  and  shingle,  adapted  for  country  homes. 


A 

MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


COMPILED  BY 

MARTHA  VAN  RENSSELAER 
FLORA  rose'  '    HELEN  CANON 

OP  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  HOME  ECONOMICS,  NEW  YORK  COLLEGE 
OP  AGRICULTTTBE  AT  CORNELL  UNIVERSITY 


Npm  fork 
THE  MACMILLAN  COMPANY 
1919 

All  rights  reserved 


Copyright,  1919 
By  the  MACMILLAN  COMPANY 
up  and  alectrotyped.   Published  February,  1919 


STATEMENT  BY  THE  EDITOTl 


Herein  is  brought  together  a  collection  of  precepts  and  ad- 
vdce  on  the  setting  up  and  management  of  a  home.   The  book 
is  written  and  compiled  primarily  for  those  women  who  are 
managing  households,  not  for  those  who  are  teaching  or  who 
are  students  in  the  class-room.    It  has  been  the  purpose  to 
bring  together  from  many  reliable  sources  the  guiding  rules 
to  be  followed  in  making  the  home  a  place  where  the  family 
can  live  a  thrifty  and  joyous  life.    It  is  compiled  by  those 
who  understand  the  subject  and  the  situation. 
2       Chapters  on  hygiene  and  sanitation  were  prepared  by  the 
2    authors,  but  space  would  not  allow  of  their  inclusion.  This 
L    is  a  source  of  much  regret,  but  the  omission  allowed  a  fuller 
^   treatment  to  be  retained  in  the  remaining  chapters. 
^      The  book  is  intended  primarily  for  rural  conditions.  The 
£   country  home  should  receive  as  careful  and  considerate  atten- 
^  tion  as  the  farm  itself.   The  home  is  inseparable  from  the  farm. 
Yet,  as  the  principles  and  practices  of  home-making  are  the 
same  in  country  and  town,  the  book  should  actually  meet  the 
needs  of  a  wide  range  of  people. 

The  Editor  is  glad  to  add  a  book  in  his  series  on  the  work 
and  welfare  of  women,  and  he  hopes  it  will  not  be  the  last. 
The  woman's  work  and  the  man's  work  together  make  the 
welfare  of  any  people  secure. 

L.  H.  BAILEY. 


CONTENTS 


PART  I 

THE  HOUSE  AND  ITS  FURNISHINGS 
CHAPTER  I 

PAGE 

The  Modern  House         .       .       .       .       .       o       ,       ,  1 

Arrangement  of  the  house     .......  2 

The  farmhouse    .        .        .        .        .        ...        .  .7 

Farmhouse  planning     ........  8 

Exterior  design    .........  21 

Cost  of  building  .........  25 

Suggestions  for  making  alterations .        .        .        .        .        .  27 

CHAPTER  II 

Home  Furnishing    .       .       .   29 

Structural  consideration  of  rooms  .        .....  30 

Color  45 

Pattern      ..........  51 

Selection  of  furnishings         .        .        .        .        .        .  .54 

Furniture   .        .  .78 

Arrangement  of  furnishings  .......  92 

Character  of  rooms  expressed  by  furnishings  .        .        =        .  95 

CHAPTER  HI 

Planning  the  Home  Kitchen    .......  100 

Use  of  the  kitchen  100 

Exposure    .        .        .        .        .        .    '    .        .        .        .  102 

Size  103 

Doors  .        .        .        .        .        .  .103 

Wmdows  104 

Arrangement  of  equipment   .......  105 

Discussion  of  plans      .        .        .        .        .        .        .  .110 

vii 


viii  CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Pantries  and  closets     .        .        .        .       .       .       .  .112 

Interior  finish      .        .        .        .        .       .       .       .       .  118 

PART  II 

HOUSEHOLD  MANAGEMENT 
CHAPTER  IV 

Care  OF  THE  House   .       .       .  121 

CeUar.  121 

Kitchen  122 

Living-room  and  dining-room        .        .        .        .        .  .123 

Sleeping-rooms    .        .        .        .        .        .        ...  .123 

Bathroom   .  .123 

Suggestions  for  sweeping  and  dusting     .....  124 

Repair  kit  .        .        .  .        .        .        .        .        .  124 

Some  special  directions  for  cleaning       .....  125 

CHAPTER  V 

Household  Measurements  and  their  Use        ....  129 

Measurements  for  commodities     ......  129 

Temperature       .........  131 

Time  138 

Measuring  gas     .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .  143 

Measuring  electricity   .        .        .        .        .        .        .  .147 

Measuring  water.        ........  151 

Density  of  liquids        .        .        .        .        .        .        .  .153 

Kitchen  measures        .        .        .        .        .        .        „  .156 

CHAPTER  VI 

Household  Records        ........  175 

How  to  keep  household  records     .        .        .        .        .  .176 

Household  accounts     .        .        .        .        .        .        .  .177 

CHAPTER  VII 

Heat  and  Light       .........  191 

Care  of  fires        .....        ...        .  191 

Radiation   ..........  191 


CONTENTS  ix 

PAGE 

Comparative  cost  of  various  methods  of  heating     .        .        .  192 
Factors  governing  consumption  of  fuel  and  convenience  of  oper- 
ation      ..........  193 

Suggestions  for  firing  and  cleaning  a  furnace  .        .        .  .198 

Advantages  and  disadvantages  of  various  fuels       .        .        .  200 

Lighting     .....               ....  200 

CHAPTER  VIII 

Stoves  and  Cookers       .   207 

CHAPTER  IX 

Methods  of  Keeping  Foods  Cool   220 

CHAPTER  X 

Kitchen  Utensils    .........  225 

Utensils  best  adapted  to  various  cooking  processes  .        .        .  225 

Special  utensils  and  equipment      ......  228 

Arrangement  of  utensils       .......  230 

How  to  prepare  new  utensils  for  use      .....  231 

How  to  protect  metals  not  in  use  ......  232 

Materials  and  their  care       .......  232 

CHAPTER  XI 

Table  Setting  and  Serving      .       .        .       .       .       .       .  240 

Table  setting  ,        .  240 

Table  service       .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .  244 

Some  table  manners  and  customs          .....  247 

CHAPTER  XII 

The  Laundry    249 

Fabrics       .   249 

Water   250 

Soap   253 

Starch       .       .       .   257 

Bluing   261 

Washing     .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .  261 


X  CONTENTS 

PAGE 

Bleaching   273 

Ironing   273 

Equipment  for  the  laundry  276 

CHAPTER  XIII 

Stain  Removal        .........  282 

Methods  for  treatment  of  stains  in  general     ....  284 

Specific  methods  for  individual  stains     .....  287 


PART  III 
CLOTHING 


CHAPTER  XIV 

Textiles   307 

Cotton   307 

Linen.        ..........  312 

Wool   315 

Silk   321 

Artificial  silk       .        .       ,   324 

Ramie        ..........  325 

Jute   325 

Tests  for  fabrics  .........  326 

Weave   329 

CHAPTER  XV 

The  Making  of  Clothing  .        .        .        .        .       .        ,       .  330 

Equipment  for  the  sewing  room     ......  334 

Preparation  of  materials       .......  336 

How  to  take  measurements  .......  338 

Kinds  of  patterns        ........  340 

How  to  estimate  the  amount  of  material        ....  342 

How  to  place  the  pattern  on  the  material       ....  344 

How  to  mark  a  pattern  for  basting        .....  348 

How  to  cut  a  garnient  ...  .....  352 

How  to  baste  a  simple  garment     ......  353 

Kinds  of  seams  for  garments .        .        .        i      ' .        .        .  358 


CONTENTS '  xi 

PAGE 

How  to  make  a  foundation  belt     ......  359 

Fitting  garments         ........  360 

How  to  make  a  skirt  even  at  the  bottom        ....  363 

How  to  keep  bias  seams  from  sagging    .        . '       .        .        .  364 

Suggestive  finishes  to  be  used  by  the  home  worker  .        .        .  364 

Suitable  materials  for  various  types  of  dresses  and  waists .        .  369 

Suggestions  for  economy  in  dress  ......  369 

Making  simple  undergarments      ......  369 

Clothing  for  children    .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .  381 

Patching  '   388 

Cloth  darning     .........  389 

Stocking  darning.        .        .               .....  391 

CHAPTER  XVI 

Millinery   393 

How  to  select  a  hat      ........  393 

Renovating  materials   ........  400 

Simple  handmade  trimmings .......  404 

PART  IV 
FOODS  AND  NUTRITION 
CHAPTER  XVII 

Planning  THE  Daily  Meals      .......  407 

Good  foods  for  supplying  the  body's  needs     ....  408 

How  to  estimate  the  daily  need  of  fuel  .        .    •    .        .        .  412 

How  to  estimate  the  daily  need  of  protein      ....  414 

How  to  estimate  the  daily  need  of  lime,  iron  and  phosphorus    .  415 

Some  rules  for  plaiming  meals       ......  425 

Food  for  the  prospective  mother    ......  433 

Food  for  the  nursing  mother .......  434 

Formulas  for  infant  feeding          ......  435 

The  part  milk  should  play  in  the  diet  during  growth       .        .  436 

CHAPTER  XVIII 

Marketing  for  the  Household      .        .        .        .        .       .  438 

Buying  fresh  or  staple  foodstuffs    ......  439 

Buying  canned  foods    ........  445 


xii  CONTENTS 


CHAPTER  XIX 

PAGE 

Food  for  the  Sick    .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .  455 

Fluid  diet   .        .   455 

Soft  or  semi-solid  diet  .        .        .        .        .       .       .        .  457 

Light  or  convalescent  diet     .        .        .        .        .        .        .  458 

Care  and  feeding  for  incipient  colds       .....  458 

Care  and  feeding  for  constipation  ......  459 

Diet  during  a  condition  of  intestinal  putrefaction    .        .        .  461 
Care  and  diet  for  indigestion.        .        .        .        .        .  .461 

Diet  in  fever       .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .  462 

Modified  milk  diets  for  typhoid  fever     .....  463 

Food  for  tuberculosis  patients       .        .        .        .        .        .  463 

CHAPTER  XX 

Beverages       .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .  465 

Coffee        .   465 

Tea   468 

Cocoa   470 

Fruit  juices   472 

CHAPTER  XXI 

Batters  and  Doughs   473 

Classification      .        .        .        .        .        .       .       .        .  473 

Ingredients         .........  474 

Methods  of  mixing       ........  478 

Utensils  for  baking      ........  478 

Filling  the  pans  ,       .  479 

Baking  e       .  479 

CHAPTER  XXII 

Cakes                                                                                .  483 

Cakes  made  with  yeast         .        .        .        .        .        .        .  483 

Sponge  cakes       ..........  483 

Butter  cakes       .........  484 

Ingredients  used  in  cakes      .......  484 

Cake  finings        .        .        .        .    "   486 

Cake  frostings     .        .        ,        .        .        ,        .        .        .  486 


CONTENTS  xiii 
CHAPTER  XXIII 

PAGE 

Pastry   490 

Ingredients         ........  490 

Characteristics  of  good  pastry       ......  491 

Directions  for  making  plain  pastry        .....  492 

Directions  for  making  flaky  pastry        .....  493 

Directions  for  making  puff  pastry  .        .       .       .       .       .  494 

CHAPTER  XXTV 

Yeast  Bread   ..........  495 

Ingredients.        .........  495 

Mixing  and  kneading   ........  498 

Fermentation      .........  499 

Shaping  dough    .........  499 

Proofing     .   499 

Baking   500 

''Rope "  in  bread   500 

Recipes      ..........  501 

Salt-rising  bread  .........  505 

CHAPTER  XXV 

Cooking  of  Cereals       .........  506 

CHAPTER  XXVI 

Meat  and  Poultry  .......       o       .  510 

Selection  of  meat  by  appearance    ......  510 

General  rules  for  cooking      .......  512 

General  directions  for  soup-making        .....  514 

Care  of  meat      .........  516 

Keeping  meat     .........  519 

Use  of  market  trimmings  and  meat  fat  in  cooking   .        .        .  519 

Chickens  and  fowls      ........  524 

CHAPTER  XXVII 

Fish  and  Oysters   527 

Fish   527 

Oysters      ..........  532 


xiv  CONTENTS 


CHAPTER  XXVIII 

PAGE 

Eggs   534 

Tests  for  fresh  eggs      .        .        .        «        .       .       ...  534 

Egg  cookery       .........  535 

CHAPTER  XXIX 

Vegetables      ..........  543 

Care  of  vegetables  in  the  home      ......  543 

Cooking  of  vegetables  ........  544 

CHAPTER  XXX 

Sauces     .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .  552 

White  sauce        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .  552 

Butter  sauce       .........  553 

Brown  sauces      .........  553 

Sauces  thickened  with  egg    .        .        .        .        .        .        .  553 

Sweet  sauces       .........  561 

CHAPTER  XXXI 

Salads     ...........  563 

Salad  herbs.   563 

Salad  dressings    .        .        ...        .        .        .        .        .  564 

CHAPTER  XXXII 

Desserts  .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .       .       o       .  570 

Fruits  ,        .  570 

Gelatin  desserts  .........  570 

Whipped  cream   .........  571 

Junket       .  ,  .572 

Frozen  desserts    .........  572 

CHAPTER  XXXIII 

Sugar  Cookery        .........  576 

CHAPTER  XXXIV 

Food  Preservation  .....       .o.       .  579 

Preservation  of  food  by  low  temperatures       «        ,        .        .  581 


CONTENTS  XV 

PAGE 

Drying  fruits  and  vegetables .......  588 

Salting  vegetables        ........  592 

Canning     ..........  599 

Preservation  of  meat    .        .        ,        .        .        ...        .  622 

Sugar-cured  hams,  bacons,  and  tongues  .....  624 

Brine  salt  pork    .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .  626 

Dry-cured  pork   .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        =  626 

Pickled  pigs'  f  eet .        .       .       .       ,       .        ,       .       .  626 

Head-cheese       .........  627 

Lard  .       .       .       .        .        .       .       .        .  .627 

Corned  beef  „  628 

Dried  beef  ..........  629 

Pickled  beef  tongues    .        =        „        .        .        .        .        .  629 

Hamburg  steak  630 

Mixed  sausage    .       »       o       c       ^       .       .       c       .  630 

Pork  sausage      .       ,       .       o       »       o       »              «  630 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


FIG.  PAGE 

1.  Floor  plans  of  a  small  house .       ......  4 

2.  The  first  floor  plan  of  a  suburban  house        ....  5 

3.  A  typical  arrangement  of  all  rooms  on  one  floor     ...  6 

4.  A  small  farmhouse  arranged  on  a  single  floor ....  7 

5.  A  remodeled  farmhouse,  to  illustrate  step-saving    ...  10 

6.  First  floor  plan,  showing  living  area  and  working  area.    .        .  12 

7.  Second  floor  plan,  showing  sleeping  area        ....  13 

8.  A  farmhouse  plan,  showing  diagonal  corners  ....  14 

9.  Plan  showing  simplicity  of  living  area   .....  15 

10.  Plan  showing  well-organized  arrangement      .  .        .  .17 

11.  A  house  planned  for  farm  life  and  farm  conditions  ...  20 

12.  A  modest  farm  cottage  of  good  design  .....  25 

13.  A  typical  low  room  in  an  old-fashioned  cottage      ...  32 

14.  The  same  type  of  low  room  as  in  Fig.  13       .  .        .  .32 

15.  A  tall  room  of  the  late  nineteenth-century  type      .        .  .  34 

16.  A  typical  modern  living-room       ......  34 

17.  A  study  of  windows  in  relation  to  the  adjoining  wall  space      .  36 

18.  Types  of  windows       ........  38 

19.  A  method  of  hanging  two  sets  of  curtains      ....  56 

20.  Four  methods  of  curtaining  a  double-hung  window ...  58 

21.  Two  methods  of  curtaining  a  group  of  windows      .  .  .60 

22.  Three  arrangements  of  valance  and  curtain    .  .        .  .64 

23.  Three  types  of  valance  and  curtain  arranged  to  cover  the  trim  67 

24.  A  group  of  typical  side  chairs       ......  79 

25.  Four  good  table  forms  for  use  in  dining-room  or  Ubrary  .        .  80 

26.  Types  of  Colonial  chairs      .......  82 

27.  Comfortable  arm-chairs  for  general  use  .....  84 

28.  Three  good  forms  of  couches  ......  86 

29.  Typical  small  tables  of  good  form  and  finish  ....  87 

30.  Good  types  of  lamps   .  .        .        .        .        .        .  .91 

31.  Arrangement  of  rugs  in  living  room      .....  93 

32.  Arrangement  of  rugs  in  living  rooms     .....  96 

33.  Arrangement  of  furniture  in  a  square  dining-room  ...  98 

34.  Arrangement  of  a  large  kitchen  101 

xvii 


xviii 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


FIG.  PAGE 

35.  Arrangement  of  a  farmhouse  kitchen     .        .        .        .  .111 

36.  Arrangement  of  a  kitchen  for  a  suburban  house      .        .  .112 

37.  Plan  showing  kitchen  arrangements      .        .        .        .  .113 

38.  A  complete  and  convenient  kitchen  for  any  house  .        .  .114 

39.  The  pass-pantry  or  serving-pantry        .        .        .        .  .115 

40.  Comparison  of  scales  for  measuring  temperature     .        .        .  132 

41.  The  index  of  a  gas  meter     .......  143 

42.  Gas  meter  index  reading  79,500  cubic  feet     ....  144 

43.  Dial  of  a  watthour  meter     .        .        .        .        .        .        .  147 

44.  Dial  of  a  watthour  meter     .        .        .        .        .        .  .148 

45.  Ordinary  form  of  water-meter  dial        .        .        .        .  .151 

46.  Comparison  of  amount  of  light  given  by  different  gas  lamps    .  202 

47.  Comparison  of  amount  of  light  given  by  different  electric  lamps  203 

48.  Cost  of  producing  a  given  amount  of  light  by  various  illumi- 

nants  at  usual  prices     .......  204 

49.  Diagram  of  a  home-made  fireless  cooker        .        .        .  .215 

50.  An  iceless  refrigerator  .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .  222 

51.  Removable  canton  flannel  cover  for  the  refrigerator        .        .  223 

52.  Methods  of  folding  underwear      ......  275 

53.  A  method  of  folding  sheets  and  tablecloths    ....  276 

54.  Another  method  of  folding  sheets .        .....  277 

55.  A  method  of  folding  nightdresses  and  shirts   ....  278 

56.  A  sleeve-board   .        .  .280 

57.  Cotton  fibers,  showing  the  characteristic  twist        .        .        .  308 

58.  Linen  fibers,  showing  the  characteristic  nodes  and  longitudinal 

striations     .........  313 

59.  Wool  fiber,  showing  the  characteristic  scales  and  the  serrated 

surface        .........  316 

60.  Silk  fiber,  showing  the  two  minute  filaments  from  the  spinnerets 

of  the  silk  worm  ........  319 

61.  Method  of  shrinking  fullness  out  of  a  garment       .        .        .  336 

62.  Method  of  taking  measurements  ......  338 

63.  Method  of  lengthening  shirt-waist  pattern     ....  342 

64.  Method  of  shortening  a  shirt-waist  pattern    ....  343 

65.  Cutting  and  opening  a  shirt-waist  pattern  to  throw  in  fullness  .  344 

66.  Increasing  or  decreasing  bust  measure  of  a  shirt-waist  pattern  .  345 

67.  Method  of  decreasing  the  size  of  a  shirt-waist  pattern     .        .  346 

68.  Method  of  lengthening  a  waist  pattern  for  a  very  full  bust  or 

round  shoulders    ........  347 

69.  Method  used  in  modeling  garments  over  a  flat  pattern    .        .  348 


ILLUSTRATIONS  xix 

FIG.  PAGE3 

70.  Adjusting  pattern  to  fit  shoulders.        .....  349 

71.  Simple  adjustment  of  sleeve  pattern      .....  349 

72.  Method  of  cutting  collars  for  flat  or  rolling  effect    .        .        .  350 

73.  Changing  length  or  width  of  skirt  pattern      ....  351 

74.  Increasing  waist  or  hip  size  of  a  skirt  pattern         .        .        .  351 

75.  Decreasing  the  size  of  the  hips  of  a  gored  skirt  pattern    .        .  352 

76.  Adjusting  a  skirt  pattern  for  a  person  who  has  a  prominent 

abdomen  or  hips      ........  353 

77.  Another  method  of  adjusting  a  gored  skirt  pattern  for  a  figure 

with  prominent  abdomen       ...           ...  354 

78.  Method  of  adding  material  to  a  gored  skirt  pattern  .      .        .  355 

79.  Designing  narrow  or  full  circular  skirt  pattern        .        .        .  356 

80.  Method  of  cutting  a  pattern  for  a  circular  flounce  .        .        .  357 

81.  Method  of  making  a  foundation  belt  for  a  skirt  or  a  dress       .  359 

82.  Combinations  of  simple  embroidery  stitches  ....  366 

83.  Set-in  pocket   368 

84.  Method  of  making  a  bound  buttonhole .....  370 

85.  Method  of  making  an  arrow        ......  371 

86.  Plain  seam  with  edges  overcast     ......  374 

87.  Plain  seams   374 

88.  French  seam   374 

89.  Hemmed  feU      .   374 

90.  Overhanded  or  French  fell   374 

91.  Flannel  feU   374 

92.  Methods  of  finishing  the  bottom  of  drawers   ....  377 

93.  Methods  of  finishing  the  bottom  of  an  underskirt   .        .        .  377 

94.  Sateen  underskirt  with  cotton-backed  satin  flounce  finished  with 

scalloped  facing    ........  377 

95.  Bound  placket   379 

96.  Bound  and  faced  placket     .......  379 

97.  Continuous  bound  and  faced  placket  with  fly.        .        .        .  379 

98.  Two  methods  of  making  a  hemmed  placket    ....  380 

99.  Methods  of  marking  positions  of  buttonholes .        .        .        .  380 

100.  Methods  of  stranding  buttonholes   380 

101.  Buttonhole  stitch   380 

102.  Suitable  designs  for  an  infant's  dress,  slip,  and  coat        .        .  383 

103.  Suitable  designs  for  dresses  for  children  from  three  to  five  years  385 

104.  Suitable  designs  for  dresses  for  children  from  six  to  ten  years  .  385 

105.  Suitable  designs  for  dresses  for  children  from  ten  to  twelve 

3^ears  ..........  386 


XX 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


106.  Suitable  designs  for  dresses  for  children  from  twelve  to  sixteen 

years  ....... 

107.  Correct  size  of  a  crown,  shown  by  the  heavy  line. 

108.  Incorrect  size  of  crown.  .... 

109.  Correct  placing  of  a  hat,  shown  by  the  heavy  line 

110.  The  prominent  lines  of  the  hat  should  harmonize  with  the  Hues 

of  the  face  . 

111.  Correct  placing  of  a  turban  . 

112.  The  outline  or  decoration  of  a  hat  should  not  repeat  or  parallel 

undesirable  lines  in  the  face  ..... 

113.  Decoration  and  structural  lines  of  a  hat 

114.  Simple  decorations  possible  in  straw  trimming 

115.  Simple  use  of  ribbon  to  decorate  or  change  a  crown  slightly 

116.  Stitches  for  folds,  for  sewing  down  facings,  and  for  decoration 

117.  French  fold,  used  for  decoration  around  crowns  and  brims 

118.  Cuts  of  beef 

119.  Cuts  of  mutton  . 

120.  Cuts  of  pork 

121.  Cellar  ventilation 

122.  The  storage  trench 

123.  Sterilizer,  showing  false  bottom  as  a  rack 

124.  Commercial  hot-water  canning  outfit  for  out-of-door  work 

125.  Steam  cooker  .... 

126.  Manner  of  testing  a  jar 

127.  Position  of  clamp  during  sterilization 

128.  Position  of  clamp  after  steriUzation 


PLATES 


PLATE 

I.  Dignified  houses,  in  plaster  and  shingle,  adapted  for  country 


homes  ........  Frontispiece 

FACING  PAGE 

II.  Appropriate  types  of  architecture  for  a  suburban  or  country 

home  \        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .  .24 

III.  A  group  of  furnishings  showing  uncrowded  arrangement  and 

unobtrusive  background.  A  similar  group  showing  how  ob- 
trusive background  and  crowded  arrangement  may  obhter- 
ate  effect  of  even  well-selected  furnishings        ...  48 

IV.  Types  of  rugs  with  suitable  pattern    .....  52 
V.  Types  of  textile  pattern  that  may  be  used  for  upholstery  or 

hangings   .........  64 

VI.  Good  types  of  desks  and  sideboards    .....  80 

VII.  Types  of  furniture  ugly  in  proportion,  etc.  .        .        .  .84 

VIIL  A  few  excellent  types  of  mirrors  and  foot-stools    .        .        .  88 
IX.  Simple  and  serviceable  types  of  bedroom  furniture       .        .  96 
X.  A  good  kitchen  arrangement      ......  104 

XI.  Shelves  for  materials  to  be  stored.    Utensils  in  which  foods 

may  be  cooked  and  served      .        .        .        .        .  .112 

XII.  Use  of  form  in  draping  dresses  before  and  after  fitting  .        .  336 

XIII.  Draping  a  waist;  a  simple  skirt  with  cascade  effect  on  sides; 

dress  form  used  in  draping     ......  344 

XIV.  Finishes  for  nightgowns     .......  376 

XV.  Simple  and  effective  designs  in  small  hats.  Finishes  for  corset 

covers  ..........  400 

XVI.  Showing  100-calorie  portions  of  some  common  foods     .       .  416 


xxi 


I' 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


A. MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


PART  I 

THE  HOUSE  AND  ITS  FURNISHINGS 
CHAPTER  I 
THE  MODERN  HOUSE 

By  Helen  Binkerd  Young 

A  SOUND  house  plan  is  fundamental  to  the  economics  of  the 
home.  A  common  impulse  toward  rational  living  has  made  it 
necessary  to  simplify  the  paraphernalia  of  existence ;  to  eliminate 
useless  tasks  and  trappings  and  to  arrange  the  remaining  neces- 
sities into  an  orderly  scheme  of  household  life.  The  arrange- 
ment of  the  modern  house  is  a  direct  expression  of  this  point  of 
view.  The  snug,  compact  dwellings  of  the  present  day  are 
eloquent  records  of  the  scientific  trend  in  home-making. 

Theoretically,  the  administration  of  a  household  under  con- 
servation methods  implies  a  perfect  dwelling — one  in  which 
there  is  an  exact  adjustment  between  the  worker  and  the  work- 
place; where  there  is  no  friction  between  the  housekeeping  and 
the  house  structure;  where  the  interior  space  and  equipment  fit 
perfectly  the  operations  of  the  home.  The  gap  that  exists  be- 
tween an  effective  scheme  of  work  and  a  poor  arrangement  of 
space  represents  a  permanent  element  of  inconvenience  or  waste; 
hence  the  value  of  a  well-considered  floor  plan. 

The  comfort  demanded  by  modern  standards  of  living  has 
brought  into  the  erection  of  the  house  many  new  materials, 
many  new  trades  and  a  great  deal  of  fixed  equipment  in  the 
way  of  heating,  plumbing,  and  lighting  systems,  hardwood 

1 


•2 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


floors,  and  various  types  of  built-in  closets  and  furniture.  The 
modern  house  is  accordingly  a  different  and  a  more  costly  prod- 
uct than  the  dwellings  of  our  fathers.  This  increase  in  the  cost 
of  a  cubic  foot  of  the  house  of  to-day,  together  with  the  necessity 
to  build,  heat,  and  maintain  the  home  economically,  has  had  a 
marked  effect  on  the  size,  shape,  and  arrangement  of  dwellings. 
Small  housekeeping  units,  square  floor  plans,  small  halls,  con- 
densed stair  arrangements,  compact  kitchens,  grouped  chim- 
neys, and  grouped  window  treatments  are  the  natural  results  of 
straightforward  planning  to  meet  modern  conditions.  Intensive 
housekeeping  and  intensive  house-planning  are  the  tendency  of 
the  times. 

ARRANGEMENT  OF  THE  HOUSE 

The  plan  of  the  house  must  be  above  all  a  direct  and  business- 
like arrangement.  Every  foot  of  space  must  be  made  to  count, 
must  contribute  either  to  the  smoothness  of  the  housework  or 
to  the  effectiveness  of  the  whole  interior.  There  should  be  no 
waste  nor  stagnant  space,  no  idle  nor  undefined  areas. 

The  organization  of  the  floor  plan  should  fit  the  organization 
of  home  activities.  The  three  phases  of  daily  life — work,  play, 
and  sleep — suggest  three  divisions  of  space  in  the  arrangement 
of  a  dwelling,  the  living-rooms  forming  one  group,  the  working 
parts  another,  and  the  sleeping-rooms  another.  Each  of  these 
space  groups  is  distinct  in  use,  in  arrangement,  and  in  the  char- 
acter of  its  furnishings. 

Communication  between  these  parts  is  provided  by  means  of 
hall  and  stairs;  in  fact  the  starting  point  of  any  plan  is  a  study 
of  its  circulation  or  passage.  The  hall  may,  therefore,  be  con- 
sidered as  the  kernel  of  the  plan,  the  distributing  center  of  space. 

The  arrangement  of  the  living-rooms  should  be  generous  in 
feeling.  To  this  end,  wide  doorways,  groups  of  windows,  and 
long  vistas  both  indoors  and  out  are  essential.  One  large  unit 
for  general  family  use  and  two  or  three  smaller  ones  usually 
comprise  the  living  area  of  the  modest  house.  Some  variety 
in  the  size,  shape,  and  direction  of  the  rooms  is  desirable  in  the 
design  of  the  living  space.    Combinations  of  oblong  rooms  of 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


3' 


different  sizes  placed  at  right  angles  to  each  other,  or  of  oblong 
and  square  rooms  of  different  dimensions,  make  a  more  inter- 
esting and  more  furnishable  arrangement  than  a  succession  of 
square  rooms,  which  tend  to  repeat  each  other  in  character  and 
use.  Generous  window  groups  on  long  or  important  walls  and 
arrangements  of  single  windows  or  pairs  on  short  or  unimportant 
walls  furnish  a  variety  of  outlook  and  lighting  that  is  bound  to 
give  life  and  animation  to  the  whole  interior. 

In  general  the  living-rooms  in  temperate  chmates  should 
occupy  southerly  exposures — south,  southeast,  and  south- 
west— unless  such  an  arrangement  is  contradicted  by  the  di- 
rection of  the  view,  prevailing  winds,  or  other  conditions  of 
the  site.  An  east  dining-room  is  especially  to  be  desired,  since 
the  morning  sun  on  the  breakfast  table  starts  the  day  off 
cheerily.  Living-rooms  southerly  and  working  parts  northerly 
make  a  good  complementary  arrangement  for  using  to  advan- 
tage the  four  exposures  of  a  free-standing  house. 

Further  discussion  of  the  working  arrangements,  such  as 
kitchen,  pantry,  laundry,  and  the  like,  may  be  found  on  pages 
99  to  119. 

The  sleeping-rooms  must  above  all  be  private  in  location. 
That  means  that  each  room  must  be  entered  directly  from  a 
hall,  not  from  another  room.  In  a  two-story  house  the  privacy 
of  the  sleeping-rooms  is  automatically  assured  by  placing 
them  on  the  second  floor.  In  a  one-story  arrangement  a  small 
bedroom-hall  must  be  deliberately  provided  in  addition  to 
the  entrance-hall. 

The  relative  advantages  of  a  one-floor  or  two-floor  arrange- 
ment for  a  private  dwelling  depend  on  a  number  of  factors. 
In  general,  the  two-story  house  and  the  real  bungalow,  which 
has  all  the  rooms  arranged  on  a  single  floor,  are  climatic  ex- 
pressions of  housing  for  widely  different  localities.  Each  is 
so  normal  for  its  own  conditions  that  it  becomes  the  prevalent 
type  of  that  place.  The  informal  spread-out  plan  of  the  bunga- 
low is  normal  for  warm  climates,  where  yard  and  grounds 
form  part  of  the  daily  life  for  a  large  part  of  the  year  and  where 
the  buildings  may  be  lightly  constructed  without  cellars  and 


4 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


without  heating  systems.  But  when  a  dwelling  must  be  ar- 
ranged for  year-round  comfort  in  a  locality  of  extreme  heat 
and  cold,  the  supposed  economy  of  a  one-floor  arrangement, 
unless  kept  very  small  and  compact,  loses  all  point  and  de- 


Fig.  1. — Floor  plans  of  a  small  house.  The  first  floor  plan  shows  a  desirable 
spaciousness  of  living  area  and  adaptability  of  working  parts.  The  second 
floor  plan  shows  an  arrangement  of  four  bedrooms,  closets,  and  bath  de- 
veloped from  a  central  hall. 

feats  its  own  end.  Large  cellar  and  roof  areas,  the  need  for 
weather-tight  construction  and  for  an  effective  heating  plant 
soon  eat  up  the  supposed  economy  of  cost. 

There  is,  however,  something  to  be  said  for  the  simpler 
housekeeping  of  the  one-floor  arrangement.  The  ease  with 
which  a  servantless  household  may  be  comfortably  maintained 
when  all  the  living  arrangements  are  on  a  single  floor,  is  re- 
sponsible for  the  popularity  of  various  forms  of  apartments, 
flats,  two-family  dwellings,  and  even  cottages  with  bedrooms 
on  the  first  floor.  Most  of  these  are,  however,  rented  dwelling- 
places  and  must  not  be  confused  with  the  type  of  house  that 
it  is  desirable  to  build  and  own  as  a  permanent  home. 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


5 


The  three  arrangements  shown  in  the  accompanying  illus- 
trations are  typical  examples  of  houses  planned  for  modern 
conditions. 

In  Fig.  1  are  shown  both  floor  plans  of  a  small  house  26  by 


lb 


Fig.  2. — The  first  floor  plan  of  a  suburban  house  designed  for  the  accomodation 
of  a  family  with  Httle  children. 

30  feet.  Here  the  spaciousness  of  the  living  area  and  the  adapt- 
ability of  the  working  parts  may  be  instantly  noted.  The 
contrast  in  the  size  and  shape  of  living-  and  dining-rooms, 
together  with  the  long  vista  through  both  rooms  and  porch  to 
the  yard  beyond,  form  a  pleasing  development  of  the  space. 
The  stairway  is  screened  from  the  front  door  and  is  arranged 
in  a  separate  stair-hall  which  serves  also  as  passage  to  the  coat- 
room  and  the  kitchen.  Such  an  arrangement  greatly  assists 
smooth  and  noiseless  housekeeping.  The  second-floor  plan 
shows  an  arrangement  of  four  rooms,  closets,  and  bath  de- 
veloped from  a  central  hall. 

In  Fig.  2  is  shown  the  first-floor  plan  of  a  suburban  house 
designed  for  the  accommodation  of  a  family  with  little  children. 


6 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


The  panel  of  space  across  the  front,  comprising  hving-room, 
hall,  and  dining-room,  is  supplemented  by  a  similar  arrange- 
ment of  rooms  in  the  rear,  in  the  form  of  nursery  and  kitchen.j 
The  front  of  the  house  can  thus  be  kept  in  order  while 


Fig.  3. — A  typical  arrangement  of  all  rooms  on  one  floor.  The  living-rooms  and 
kitchen  are  grouped  snugly  together,  and  the  bedrooms  are  grouped  and 
arranged  to  open  from  a  retired  hall. 

the  rear  part  is  in  use.  The  nursery  is  so  located  that  it 
can  be  watched  by  the  worker  in  the  kitchen,  and  the  stairs 
are  very  accessible.  With  such  an  arrangement  properly 
equipped,  a  mother  could  do  her  own  work  without  exhaustion 
or  loss  of  time.  The  children's  lunch  could  be  served  in  the 
nursery  and  the  mother's  couch  and  sewing  materials  would 
always  be  ready.  The  nursery  could  later  be  transformed 
into  a  study-room  or  library,  or  in  case  of  illness  into  a  down- 
stairs bedroom,  since  toilet  facilities  are  at  hand.  The  house 
also  adjusts  itself  to  hired  help. 

A  typical  arrangement  of  all  rooms  on  one  floor  is  shown 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


7 


in  Fig.  3.  The  living-rooms  and  kitchen  are  grouped  snugly 
together,  and  the  bedrooms  are  grouped  and  arranged  to  open 
from  a  retired  hall.  Such  a  plan  is  suitable  for  a  one-floor 
cottage  arrangement  in  temperate  climates.  Another  one- 
floor  arrangement  is  shown  in  Fig.  4. 


Fig.  4. — A  small  farmhouse  arranged  on  a  single  floor,  with  a  cellar  beneath  for 
the  furnace  and  for  vegetable  storage. 


THE  FARMHOUSE  * 

No  building  can  be  discussed  intelligently  apart  from  its 
surroundings.  The  best  placing  of  the  farmhouse  depends 
on  the  location  of  the  barns  and  other  outbuildings.  The  rela- 
tion of  these  buildings  to  one  another  and  to  such  considerations 
as  sunlight,  view,  roadways,  and  garden  should  be  carefully 
studied.  Obviously,  a  general  farm  scheme  that  unites  into 
one  workable  system  lands,  barns,  and  dwelling  is  the  wisest 
beginning  for  the  development  of  any  property.  Each  im- 
provement will  then  take  its  place  in  the  final  scheme,  and 

*  The  remainder  of  this  chapter  is  taken  from  Cornell  Reading-Course 
for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  39. 


8 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


permanent  economy  will  result.  Owners  of  either  old  or  new 
farmsteads  will  profit  by  adhering  to  a  simple  and  direct  work- 
ing plan  for  the  farm  grounds.  The  farmhouse  is  merely  one 
unit  of  the  whole  farmstead. 

The  practical  value  of  a  working  plan  can  hardly  be  over- 
estimated. The  haphazard  farm  groups  commonly  seen  bear 
eloquent  testimony  to  the  futility  of  developing  property  with- 
out plan.  Failure  to  plan  involves  waste  of  money  and  labor; 
it  means  a  continuous  process  of  tearing  down,  reconstructing, 
and  makeshift.  Under  all  circumstances,  hit-and-miss  methods 
of  work  have  proved  unfailingly  wasteful.  Organized  farming 
and  organized  housekeeping  are  the  present  tendency,  and  to 
this  end  an  organized  arrangement  is  necessary.  A  well-planned 
farmstead  is  more  economical,  more  orderly,  more  beautiful, 
and  more  salable  than  one  which,  like  Topsy,  "just  growed.'^ 

FARMHOUSE  PLANNING 

A  farmhouse  is  more  difficult  to  plan  than  either  a  city  or  a 
suburban  dwelling,  because  it  must  provide  for  so  many  needs. 
The  city  or  the  suburban  house  is  merely  a  home;  it  is  supple- 
mented by  an  outside  place  of  business  and  by  outside  markets. 
The  farmhouse,  on  the  other  hand,  must  be  not  only  a  home, 
but  also  the  business  center  and  to  a  limited  extent  the  store 
and  the  market.  This  means  that,  planned  as  compactly  as 
may  be,  a  farmhouse  is  necessarily  larger  in  floor  area  than  a 
suburban  house  for  the  same  family  need  be.  Much  thought 
and  planning  are,  therefore,  required  in  order  to  arrange  this 
larger  area  in  such  a  manner  that  wasteful  methods  of  work 
will  be  avoided. 

Traditional  types. 

It  may  truly  be  said  that  the  problem  of  the  American  farm- 
house is  still  unsolved.  For  the  building  of  new  appropriate 
farm  dwellings,  there  is  almost  no  precedent  to  guide  one. 
Most  of  the  rural  houses  now  standing  are  failures  as  farm- 
houses because  they  were  not  planned  for  farm  conditions. 
In  fact,  many  of  them  were  not  planned  at  all.    They  were 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


9 


[merely  built,  and  built  in  about  the  following  fashion:  an 
i  outer  shell  was  constructed  and  roofed  over,  the  inside  was 
divided  into  rooms,  and  somewhere  a  kitchen  was  attached. 
If  the  house  became  too  small,  more  rooms  were  added  to  fit 
the  growing  needs  of  the  family.  With  each  addition  to  the 
house,  the  kitchen  retreated  to  the  rear  of  the  structure,  where, 
by  its  very  distance  from  the  living-rooms,  it  confined  the 
housewife  to  her  post  of  duty.  As  the  family  decreased  in 
numbers  and  helpers  became  few,  the  front  part  of  the  house 
was  closed  and  home  life  was  centered  within  the  radius  of 
the  kitchen  and  its  activities. 

Such  of  these  old  structures  as  are  soundly  built  are  worth 
replanning  and  equipping  with  running  water,  electric  light, 
sound  floors,  and  a  good  heating  system.  Alteration  should 
be  undertaken  only  after  the  complete  project  has  been  worked 
out  on  paper. 

In  Fig.  5  is  illustrated  a  rambling  plan  of  the  traditional 
farmhouse  of  the  upright-and-wing  type  previously  described. 
The  original  and  the  remodeled  arrangement  are  shown  in  A 
and  B,  respectively.  The  main  faults  of  the  old  plan.  A,  are 
two:  first,  the  plan  is  deficient  in  correctly  located  hall  space; 
second,  the  distance  from  the  kitchen  to  the  front  of  the  house 
is  too  great.  Since  a  person  must  pass  through  one  room  in 
order  to  reach  another,  the  whole  floor  virtually  becomes  a 
passageway.  This  condition  destroys  privacy,  interrupts  work, 
and  entails  much  extra  cleaning.  The  correct  amount  of  hall 
area  placed  in  the  heart  of  the  plan  would  give  separate  entrance 
to  each  room  and  would  save  the  whole  house.  Hall  space 
should  be  regarded  as  the  developer  of  the  plan.  If  the  plan 
is  compactly  arranged  and  the  hall  centrally  placed,  great 
service  may  be  obtained  from  even  a  small  allowance  of  hall 
space.  The  presence  of  five,  six,  or  seven  doors  in  a  room  in- 
dicates poor  hall-planning,  and  therefore  poor  house-planning. 
It  is  well  to  remember  that  the  number  of  doors  in  a  room 
diminishes  in  proportion  to  the  excellence  of  the  plan. 

In  plan  B  there  is  introduced  enough  central  hall  area  to 
give  direct  access  to  each  of  the  rooms.   The  kitchen  is  placed 


Fig.  5. — A  remodeled  farmhouse,  to  illustrate  step-saving, 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


11 


centrally  at  the  rear  of  this  hallway.  This  brings  the  kitchen 
nearer  the  living  rooms  and  shortens  all  working  distances. 
If  the  distances  from  the  center  of  the  kitchen  to  the  center 
of  each  room  in  plans  A  and  B  are  computed,  it  is  found  that 
the  remodeled  plan  saves  an  average  distance  of  fifteen  feet 
a  round  trip  over  the  old  plan. 

In  the  remodeled  plan,  such  modern  improvements  as  heat, 
light,  and  running  water  have  been  added;  closets  also  have 
been  provided.  The  whole  plan  is  now  arranged  so  as  to  en- 
courage wholesome  living. 

Under  the  old  plan  the  house  contained  two  cellars,  one 
under  the  square  upright  and  one  under  the  kitchen,  with  an 
un excavated  area  under  the  dining-room.  A  long  journey 
was  thereby  involved  in  going  from  one  excavated  part  to  the 
other.  The  new  plan  simplified  this  difficulty  by  excavating 
under  the  dining-room  wing. 

A  study  of  new  types. 

Attention  must  now  be  focused  on  more  economical  arrange- 
ments. The  plan  of  any  building  is  based  primarily  on  its 
needs.  Broadly  speaking,  family  life  makes  three  demands  on 
a  house  plan:  that  it  shall  provide  living  area,  working  area, 
and  sleeping  area.  The  living  area  includes  such  parts  as 
sitting-room,  dining-room,  library,  office,  and  porch;  the  work- 
ing area  includes  kitchen,  pantry,  laundry,  hall,  and  stairs; 
the  sleeping  area  includes  bedrooms  and  bath.  It  is  the  func- 
tion of  a  good  plan  to  organize  these  three  elements  into  a 
compact  arrangement,  allowing  each  requirement  an  area  to 
itself.  Spaciousness  must  be  expressed  in  the  living  area,  com- 
pactness in  the  working  area,  and  privacy  in  the  sleeping  area. 

The  farm  cottage  shown  in  Figs.  6  and  7  aptly  illustrates 
these  principles.  Here  is  a  compact  plan  with  its  three  areas 
clearly  defined.  In  the  living  area  a  feeling  of  spaciousness 
is  obtained  by  the  use  of  wide  doorways  and  groups  of  windows 
through  which  vistas  are  seen  indoors  and  out.  No  interior, 
however  small  in  actual  dimensions,  need  appear  cramped 
if  long  vistas  are  planned  for.    Good  interior  design  is  also 


12  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

evident  in  Fig.  6.  It  is  indicated  by  the  balanced  arrangement 
of  the  structural  parts  of  each  room.  On  the  rear  wall  of  the 
living-room  is  seen  a  central  fireplace  flanked  by  broad  door- 
ways of  equal  width,  while  the  front  wall  opposite  expandg 
into  a  generous  bay  window  centrally  placed,  with  built-in 


Fig.  6. — First  floor  plan,  showing  living  area  and  working  area. 


bookshelves  to  right  and  left.  These  features  so  unite  as  to 
make  of  the  living-room  a  composition  at  once  so  dignified, 
so  orderly,  and  so  effective  that  little  furniture  is  needed  to 
complete  it.  In  the  dining-room,  balanced  design  is  expressed 
by  the  long  flower-box,  the  bay  window,  and  by  the  central  door 
on  the  opposite  wall,  flanked  by  diagonal  corner  features  of 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


equal  width.  In  general,  diagonal  corners  should  be  avoided 
except  where  they  are  a  practical  necessity  or  where  they  are 
deliberately  used  for  reasons  of  design,  as  in  Fig.  8. 

Of  the  working  area  (Fig.  6),  the  kitchen,  pantry,  and  stairs 


BARNS  are:  in  - 
THIS  DIRECTfON- 


SCAUE  O  5         lO       IS       20      S.S      30  FEET- 


Fig.  7. — Second  floor  plan,  showing  sleeping  area. 

are  the  parts  most  constantly  used  by  the  woman  of  the  house. 
Hence  they  are  compactly  grouped  and  are  placed  next  to  the 
living  space.  Woodroom  and  washroom  are  of  intermittent 
use  to  the  housewife  but  of  constant  use  to  the  farmer.  Conse- 
quently they  are  placed  away  from  the  living  rooms  in  the 
direction  of  driveway  and  barns. 


14 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Fig.  8. — A  farmhouse  plan,  showing  diagonal  corners  used  deliberately  for 
purpose  of  design. 


The  sleeping  area  provides  one  bathroom  and  three  bed- 
rooms, each  of  the  latter  with  its  closet.  Their  position  on 
the  second  floor  renders  them  quiet  and  private. 

Briefly  stated,  economy  of  plan  is  expressed  in  the  grouped 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


15 


 1 

C>--jf  STRING  A  - 


SECOND  FLOOR 


Fig.  9. — Plan  showing  simplicity  of  li\^ng  area  and  com- 
pleteness of  working  area. 

chimney  arrangement,  in  the  condensed  hall  and  stair  arrange- 
ment, and  in  the  small  kitchen.  The  kitchen  arrangement  is 
weak,  however,  in  some  respects.  It  has  only  one  outside  wall 
and  is  therefore  lacking  in  cross-ventilation.    Moreover,  the 


16 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME -MAKING 


position  of  tlu^  door  botwoon  (lininji;-ro()m  and  kitchen,  being 
in  lin(^  witli  kitclK^n  i*ange,  would  surely  prove  a  nuisance 
from  considcrnl  ions  of  si^ht,  sound,  and  smell.  It  is  unfor- 
tunate, too,  that  tlu^  path  of  tra,vel  from  the  rear  to  the  front 
of  lh(^  house  l(\i(ls  thi'ouj^h  th(^  kitcluMi. 

In  1^'iji;.  \)  is  repi"(\s(Mit(Ml  anotluM-  vv(^ll-i)lanned  farmhouse, 
it  is  chaj'acterized  ehiclly  In  Hie  siniplicil y  of  the  livinji;  area 
a,nd  by  tlu^  compkHcMicss  of  tlu'  workinji;  area,  l^^ach  area 
()('('Upi(*s  about  oiu^-half  of  (Ik^  (looi-  plan. 

'V\w  livin*;-  ai-(\'i  is  uiii(iu(^  and  spacious.  Instead  of  two 
S(*pa.ra.t(^  rooms,  (\ach  of  winch  would  be  small,  livin<2;-room 
and  (liiuni»;-r()()m  a.r(^  coinbiiuMl  inio  one  lar<2;e  apartment.  A 
j>;i-()up  of  tluxH'  ^lass  doois  coinuM'ts  this  j^enerous  living-room 
wi(h  an  unusual  })or('h  ari-an<i;ement ,  called  on  the  plan  an 
''arb()r(Ml  t(M-ra.('(\"  This  terra-ce,  which  is  cement-paved  under 
foot  and  vin(^-('()V(M(Hl  ()V(m1u\'1(1,  is  in  rt^ality  an  open-air  con- 
tinuation of  (h(^  livin«!;-r()()m,  whi(*h  adds  materially  to  the 
comfort  of  tlu^  family  in  suimner.  Here  meals  may  be  served 
whil(^  sunlii!;ht  and  <!;a.rden  ai"e  enjoy(Hl.  The  position  of  window 
<>roups  on  bot  h  (muIs  of  the  la,r<i;(^  room  cr(^a,t(^s  a  lonji;,  unbroken 
vista,  so  that  all  the  livinf>;  si)ace  is  ai)preciat.ed  all  the  time. 

(kintrally  placed  on  t  he  lonj;-  outer  wall  of  the  livin<i;-room 
is  a-  hrepla('(^  al('()V(\  or  inj^lenook.  This  feature  increases  the 
ax't-ual  width  of  tlu^  room  and  joi'ovides  two  outdoor  vistas  in 
new  diicM't  ions.  I nj^kMiooks,  however,  should  be  used  with 
g;reat  n^siM  xc  unl(\ss  tluy  are  *2;enerous  in  width  and  develop 
naturally  on  the  plan.  Many  times  the  excellence  of  an  entire 
plan  is  sacrificed  to  the  use  of  a  feature  of  this  nature. 

The  completeness  of  the  working  area  is  best  appreciated 
by  observing  that  each  kind  of  work  has  its  allotted  place. 
The  kitchen  is  intended  for  cooking;  the  pantry,  for  food 
storage;  the  pass  pantiy,  for  dishes;  the  wootlroom,  for  fuel; 
the  hall  and  stairs,  for  passage;  the  two  recessed  porches  gather 
entrance  to  the  house  in  a  conunon  passage  that  serves  all 
rooms. 

The  kitchen  arrangenunit  shown  in  Fig.  9  excels  that  in 
Fig.  0  in  at  least  three  particulars.   The  introduction  of  a  pass 


18 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


pantry  serves  to  seclude  the  kitchen  from  the  living-room; 
good  cross-ventilation  takes  place  between  the  windows  over 
table  and  sink;  and  the  path  of  travel  from  the  rear  porch  to 
the  front  of  the  house  does  not  cross  the  kitchen. 

In  this  house  the  laundry  is  located  in  the  basement,  which 
stands  out  of  ground  on  the  kitchen  corner.  An  outside  door 
enters  the  cellar  on  grade  level. 

The  bedroom  plan  is  compact,  private,  light,  and  airy. 

Other  plans  may  be  analyzed  in  a  similar  manner,  the  strength 
and  the  weakness  of  various  arrangements  noted,  and  a  sense 
of  good  planning  acquired.  The  larger  farmhouse  shown  in 
Fig.  10  has  been  inserted  for  personal  study  on  the  part  of 
the  readers.  It  represents  a  well-organized  arrangement  with 
a  new  feature  introduced  in  the  rear — a  hired  man's  room 
with  separate  stairs  leading  to  it.  The  dignified,  simple,  and 
well-designed  exterior  shown  in  Plate  I,  upper  figure,  will  stim- 
ulate the  imagination  and  serve  to  make  the  plan  more  realistic. 

It  must  not  be  supposed  that  the  plans  shown  in  Figs.  6,  8, 
and  9  are  perfect  in  every  respect.  No  business  office  is  in- 
cluded and  they  contain  fewer  bedrooms  than  farmhouses  of 
the  past  have  provided.  It  must  be  remembered  that  each 
of  these  houses  was  designed  for  a  particular  family  and  for  a 
particular  farm  site,  as  all  successful  houses  should  be.  Con- 
sequently they  are  not  intended  as  models  to  be  copied,  but 
as  illustrations  of  the  principles  of  house-planning.  If  the 
principles  of  planning  are  understood  they  may  be  applied, 
whether  to  new  work  or  to  alterations. 

In  general,  an  intricate  or  confused  plan  is  always  a  poor 
one;  the  more  carefully  an  arrangement  is  studied,  the  simpler 
it  should  become.  Briefly  stated,  the  final  test  of  a  good  plan 
is  its  extreme  simplicity.  Starting  at  the  main  entrance,  one 
should  be  able  to  proceed  mentally  through  the  plan  with  ease 
and  comprehension.  For  the  most  part  the  walls  should  be 
in  continuous,  straight  lines  and  should  show  an  absence  of 
jogs,  angles,  and  diagonal  corners.  Windows  may  be  grouped 
or  single,  but  should  be  disposed  in  an  orderly  manner  with 
relation  both  to  interior  and  to  exterior  appearance. 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


19 


The  plans  shown  are  a  reasonable  protest  against  the  old 
wasteful  types  of  farm  dwellings.  Study  of  these  plans  will 
serve  to  show  in  what  respects  the  modern  rural  house  should 
differ  from  former  arrangements.  A  living-room  now  com- 
bines the  unused  parlor  and  the  overused  sitting-room  for 
general  family  life;  an  office  where  the  farmer's  business  is 
transacted  is  provided  in  a  place  convenient  to  roadway  and 
barn,  but  outside  the  path  of  housework  travel;  the  kitchen 
arrangement  is  compact  and  well  organized;  the  downstairs 
bedrooms  open,  not  from  other  rooms,  but  from  a  private  hall, 
thus  insuring  quiet  and  privacy  (Figs.  5  and  8) ;  a  bathroom  is 
provided  on  either  the  first  or  the  second  floor,  according  to 
water  pressure;  if  possible  all  the  bedrooms  are  provided  with 
windows  on  two  sides;  the  large  hall  with  open  stairs  has  given 
way  to  a  more  condensed  arrangement;  a  generous  porch  or 
uncovered  terrace  is  placed  where  it  either  commands  the 
best  view  or  is  most  useful  during  the  day;  the  family  hearth 
has  literally  returned  in  the  living-room  fireplace;  and  the 
whole  plan  is  so  arranged  that  the  rooms  lived  in  most  are  the 
sunniest. 

A  dwelling  combining  the  above  features  is  illustrated  in 
Fig.  11.  Wisely  studied  and  frankly  arranged,  without  a  foot 
of  waste  room,  this  structure  represents  a  type  of  farmhouse 
that  is  economical  to  build,  to  heat,  and  to  work.  The  stairs 
for  the  whole  house  are  contained  in  one  vertical  shaft;  the 
hall  is  reduced  to  a  small  area;  an  office  is  placed  near  the 
roadway  and  away  from  the  housewife's  work,  which  is  accom- 
modated in  a  dining-room  and  kitchen  combination;  a  man's 
room  is  provided  at  the  extreme  end  of  the  plan,  away  from 
the  family;  a  washroom  is  on  the  line  of  travel  between  the 
back  porch  and  the  dining-room;  and  a  spacious  living-room, 
with  fireplace  and  window  groups,  is  located  on  a  desirable 
corner.  On  the  second  floor,  the  stairs  land  centrally  in  a 
square  hall,  which  gives  direct  entrance  to  each  of  the  four 
bedrooms  and  to  the  bathroom;  the  bedrooms  are  provided 
with  good  closets;  light  and  ventilation  are  everywhere  abun- 
dant. 


20 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


LAUAIDRY  lMA/^'3RMi 


PORCH 

I  fx  19" 


r 1 1557  FLOOR 
PLAAI. 


BED  R,^of^  j 


Fig.  11. 


5KO/ND  rLOOR 
PLAN 

-A  house  planned  for  farm  life  and  farm  conditions. 


Modern  improvements. 

The  class  of  conveniences  known  as  modern  improvements — ■ 
meaning  thereby  plumbing,  heating,  and  lighting  systems,  the 
installation  of  mechanical  power  to  be  used  for  pumps,  wash- 
ing machines,  mangles,  vacuum  cleaners,  and  the  like — may 
properly  be  discussed  only  by  experts  who  have  special  knowl- 
edge of  them.   The  practical  aspect  of  most  of  these  improve- 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


21 


ments  has  been  widely  discussed  in  books  and  pamphlets,  so 
that  any  householder  may  become  informed  before  installing 
such  improvements  in  the  home. 

EXTERIOR  DESIGN  (PLATES  I  AND  II) 

In  order  to  be  a  success,  a  country  house  must  be  in  har- 
mony with  its  environment.  It  should  appear  to  have  grown 
on  its  site,  and  to  be  a  normal  expression  of  human  life  in  nat- 
ural surroundings.  The  house  should  be  in  tune  with  the  color 
and  the  contour  of  the  landscape.  Farm  lands  which  are  for 
the  most  part  flat  or  rolling,  produce  contours  which  are 
strongly  horizontal.  Architecture  that  is  appropriate  to  such 
landscape  should  in  general  be  low,  broad,  and  snug.  Tall 
narrow  structures  are  necessary  in  cities  where  land  is  costly 
and  are  appropriate  in  rugged,  cliffy  countries  where  nature 
is  replete  with  vertical  surfaces;  but  they  are  inappropriate 
when  standing  free  on  a  flat  site. 

Color  scheme. 

The  setting  of  a  rural  house  presupposes  such  natural  scenery 
as  is  composed  of  trees,  shrubs,  lawns,  gardens,  hills,  rocks,  and 
streams.  The  color  effect  of  the  house  must  be  in  harmony 
with  this  setting.  Such  colors  as  white,  cream,  grays,  soft 
greens,  and  browns  of  various  shades  will  always  harmonize 
with  nature.  Red  is  bold  unless  partially  screened  by  planting. 
The  use  of  brick  is  about  the  only  reason  for  introducing  a  red 
color  scheme.  Brick  walls  are  broken  in  mass  by  jointing  and 
relieved  by  contrast  at  the  openings,  whereas  a  wooden  house 
painted  red  is  distressing.  When  field  stone,  concrete,  cement, 
or  brick  is  used,  the  color  scheme  is  spontaneous,  being  pro- 
duced by  the  color  of  the  materials  selected;  when  wood  is 
employed,  however,  a  surface  color  effect  is  applied  by  means 
of  stain  or  paint.  This  color  scheme  should  be  neither  too 
dull  nor  too  bright.  Cold  grays  and  drabs  are  about  as  cheer- 
less as  red  is  aggressive.  In  general,  when  choosing  paint 
from  samples,  it  is  wise  to  select  a  color  that  is  somewhat 
softer  than  the  effect  desired.   A  small  piece  of  gay  color  which 


22 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


looks  interesting  in  the  hand,  appears  glaring  and  bold  when 
covering  an  entire  house.  Likewise,  a  cold,  dead  color  appears 
cheerless  when  used  in  mass. 

The  chief  factor  to  be  avoided  in  painting  houses  is  an  ef- 
fect of  patchiness.  For  example,  in  the  case  of  a  porch  post 
or  column,  the  cap  and  the  base  should  not  be  painted  one 
color  and  the  shaft  another.  The  whole  porch  should  be  one 
idea.  Cornices,  brackets,  and  moldings  should  not  be  picked 
out  by  color,  as  light  and  shade  interpret  them  sufficiently. 
Useless  bric-a-brac  and  ornament  that  cannot  be  removed 
should  be  subdued  as  much  as  possible  in  the  color  scheme. 

Looked  at  as  a  picture,  the  windows  and  doors  of  a  house 
should  appear  as  decorative  accents,  contrasting  with  the 
background  of  wall.  Windows  especially  are  the  eyes  that 
give  expression  to  the  architectural  face  of  the  dwelling.  With 
walls  of  a  light  color  the  windows  naturally  form  a  dark  con- 
trast; but  if  the  walls  are  dark  or  dull  in  effect,  the  windows 
may  be  enlivened  by  painting  the  sash  a  lighter  or  brighter 
color  and  the  blinds  a  clear  shade  of  green,  yellow-brown,  or 
other  harmonious  color.  Doorways  and  entrances  should 
have  dignified  recognition  in  the  color  scheme. 

General  proportion. 

The  effectiveness  of  a  house  in  the  landscape  depends  not 
at  all  on  ornament,  but  on  its  structural  shape  and  the  color 
produced  through  the  use  of  building  materials.  Refined 
proportions,  simple  roof  lines,  and  interesting  but  not  violent 
contrasts  between  roof,  walls,  and  openings,  together  with 
the  character  and  arrangement  of  windows  and  doors,  are 
the  elements  that  combine  to  make  of  a  country  house  an  ex- 
ample of  true  rural  architecture. 

It  has  been  previously  stated  that  the  mass-proportion  of  a 
house  in  the  open  country  should  be  low  and  broad  rather 
than  tall  and  narrow.  This  feeling  of  proportion  depends  not 
so  much  on  the  actual  height  of  the  house  from  ground  to 
gable,  as  on  the  position  of  the  eaves  or  the  cornice  line.  When 
the  eaves  line  is  low,  the  effect  of  the  house  is  low;  hence  the 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


23 


value  of  long  roof  lines  in  obtaining  good  proportions.  If  the 
roof  rafters  are  brought  down  to  the  level  of  the  second  floor, 
a  sound,  practical,  and  attractive  structure  usually  results. 
It  is  desirable  to  include  the  porch  under  such  a  roof  whenever 
possible,  since  this  simplifies  the  roofing  system  of  the  house 
and  unites  house  and  porch  into  one  contained  design.  While 
long  roof  lines  and  recessed  porches  are  not  always  desirable, 
they  have  their  charm  and  place. 

Low  eaves  and  a  long  roof  line  usually  fit  a  farmhouse  plan 
very  conveniently  because  such  a  treatment  brings  a  smaller 
second-floor  plan  than  first-floor  plan.  This  is  exactly  the 
farmhouse  requirement.  The  rooms  under  the  roof  may  be 
Hghted  and  ventilated  by  means  of  generous  dormers  or  gables. 

It  is  commonly  supposed  that  bedrooms  located  under  a 
sloping  roof  must  necessarily  be  low  and  hot.  This  is  not 
true.  The  fact  that  some  bedrooms  so  located  have  been  stuffy 
does  not  argue  that  all  bedrooms  need  to  be  so;  it  implies 
rather  that  there  has  been  no  cross-ventilation  or  that  the 
windows  were  placed  so  low  as  to  leave  a  pocket  of  hot  air 
confined  near  the  ceiling.  An  outlet  for  the  hot  air  should  be 
furnished  by  windows  placed  high  in  the  room.  If  the  roof 
pitch  and  dormer  windows  are  studied  to  fit  the  height  of  the 
second-floor  rooms,  a  full  second  story  with  high  or  full-length 
windows  may  be  commodiously  arranged  under  a  long  roof, 
and  the  low  parts  may  be  used  for  closets. 

Structural  elements. 

The  windows  of  a  dwelling,  whether  grouped  or  single, 
should  be  similar  in  style  and  should  show  some  kind  of  orderly 
arrangement.  In  general,  unity  of  design  is  preserved  if  the 
tops  of  all  windows  on  a  floor  are  kept  on  the  same  level.  Vari- 
ations in  window  heights  will  thus  occur  between  the  floor 
level  and  the  sifl.  Oval  windows,  diamond-shaped  windows, 
and  other  fancy  forms  should  be  avoided.  A  miscellaneous 
collection  of  windows  jotted  at  different  points  over  a  building 
robs  it  of  dignity  and  composure.  Window  blinds  and  small 
panes  have  a  certain  decorative  value  from  the  outside. 


24 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


No  country  house  is  complete  without  a  generous  porch  or 
other  feature  that  will  form  a  center  for  outdoor  family  life. 
A  vine-covered  arbor,  a  paved  spot,  or  merely  a  shaded  stretch 
of  lawn  near  the  house  may  be  made  fully  as  livable  as  the 
usual  porch.  The  usual  type  of  American  porch,  a  covered 
platform  attached  to  the  house,  built  high  and  dry,  inclosed 
by  a  railing,  and  reached  by  steps,  has  artificially  confined 
outdoor  life  to  the  house  apart  from  yard  and  garden.  If 
comfort  and  beauty  are  both  to  be  served,  neither  porch  nor 
garden  should  be  sacrificed;  they  should  rather  be  arranged 
adjacently  so  that  the  lawn  adjoins  the  porch  and  the  vistas 
down  the  garden  paths  are  continuous  with  the  main  vistas 
from  the  porch,  or  are  related  to  views  from  the  important 
windows  of  the  house.  In  other  words,  house  and  grounds 
should  be  planned  as  one  continuous  design,  using  as  a  con- 
necting link  the  porch. 

The  chief  difficulty  with  a  united  porch  and  garden  scheme 
arises  from  the  usual  difference  in  height  between  the  porch 
floor  and  the  yard  level.  These  two  levels  may  be  brought  near 
together  either  by  setting  the  house  low  on  the  ground  and  build- 
ing areas  around  the  cellar  windows  (Plate  I),  or  by  raising  a 
flat,  graded  terrace  to  within  a  step  or  two  of  the  porch  floor. 
Both  these  schemes  are  frequently  and  successfully  practiced, 
and  in  no  way  prevent  light  and  air  from  entering  the  cellar. 

In  order  to  be  commodious,  a  porch  should  be  room-shaped, 
rather  than  long  and  narrow.  A  porch  10  to  12  feet  wide  and 
14  to  20  feet  long  will  give  greater  comfort  than  one  6  to  8 
feet  wide  and  extending  around  two  sides  of  the  house.  Further- 
more, a  rectangular  porch  will  not  darken  so  much  of  the  in- 
terior as  will  one  extending  along  the  full  length  of  the  house. 
If  the  porch  occupies  a  sunny  position,  it  may  be  shaded  and 
embowered  by  screening  with  latticework,  over  which  vines 
may  be  allowed  to  grow.  A  cement  or  brick  floor  is  desirable 
for  porch  use. 

If  an  upstairs  sleeping-porch  is  planned,  the  railing  should  be 
built  solidly  from  the  floor  for  2  or  3  feet,  and  the  open  part 
above  should  be  provided  with  window  sash  and  awnings  in 


Plate   II. — Appropriate    types    of   architecture    for   a    suburban  or 
country  home. 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE  25 

i order  that  storms  and  early  morning-  \\^h.i  may  be  excluded. 
This  arrangement  can  be  made  comfortable  for  year-round  use. 
Outside  entrance  doors  should  be  sheltered  by  a  hood  on 
brackets,  by  a  portico,  or  by  a  porch  {V\^.  12).   It  is  usually  de- 
I  sirable  to  separate  the  living-porch  from  the  main  entrance. 


Fig.  12. — A  modest  farm  cottage  of  good  design. 


Here,  if  anywhere,  a  little  genuine  design  should  be  afforded. 
A  portal  is  an  intimate  feature  and  should  express  dignity,  hos- 
pitality, and  beauty  to  all  who  enter.  A  natural-finish  oak 
door  with  plate  glass  panel  can  hardly  be  considered  appro- 
priate for  a  decorative  doorway,  because  it  is  out  of  keeping, 
both  in  material  and  color,  with  tlui  remainder  of  the  exterior. 

COST  OF  nUILDINO 

The  a(;tual  (50sl  of  building  a  given  house  is  determined 
largely  by  l()(;al  coiidit  ions.    The  (;ost  of  labor,  the  cost  of  ma- 


26  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING  I 

terials  used,  the  distance  of  the  new  building  from  the  base 
of  suppUes,  and  the  amount  of  hauHng  involved,  are  items 
that  vary  with  every  enterprise.  Thus  no.  fixed  price  may  be 
quoted  as  to  the  cost  of  a  given  building,  the  year  round  and 
in  all  localities.  The  reading  public  should,  therefore,  place 
no  faith  in  the  building  figures  quoted  in  popular  magazines.' 
They  are  misleading  in  the  extreme;  for  they  usually  represent 
either  a  set  of  conditions  which  have  not  been  fully  told  or 
which  are  so  unusual  that  they  may  not  be  duplicated.  In! 
general  it  may  safely  be  said  that  a  modest  house  of  usual 
construction  may  be  built  for  considerably  less  money  by  rural 
than  by  city  labor. 

One  way  of  estimating  the  probable  cost  of  a  new  house  is 
to  compare  it  with  another  dwelling  recently  built  in  the  local- i 
ity.  If  the  size  and  cost  of  the  house  already  built  are  known, ; 
one  may  compute  the  average  cost  a  cubic  foot  by  dividing 
the  total  cost  by  the  number  of  cubic  feet  that  the  house  con- 
tains. If  the  house  that  is  planned  is  to  be  of  better  grade 
than  the  one  figured  on,  it  will  cost  more  a  cubic  foot;  if  it  is 
simpler,  it  will  cost  less.  A  rough  estimate  ma}^  thus  be  reached 
before  the  work  is  undertaken  or  is  figured  out  by  the  con- 
tractor. 

With  present  standards  of  building  it  is  likely  that  in  no 
locality  can  a  house  with  modern  improvements  be  erected  for 
less  than  sixteen  cents  a  cubic  foot,  and  that  a  modest  house 
need  not  exceed  twenty-four  cents  a  cubic  foot  unless  fireproof 
construction  is  used.  An  average  cost  of  about  eighteen  cents 
a  cubic  foot  is  probably  fair  for  most  country  districts. 

Much  has  been  said  and  written  about  the  present  high  cost 
.of  building.  It  is  true  that  a  house  of  a  given  size  to-day  often 
costs  twice  as  much  as  one  of  the  same  size  would  have  cost 
twenty-five  years  ago;  but  this  advance  is  due  not  alone  to 
the  increased  cost  of  labor  and  material,  but  also  to  similar 
types  of  dwellings  not  being  compared.  A  house  equipped  with 
heat,  running  water,  hardwood  floors,  many  closets,  and  fre- 
quently with  electric  light  and  built-in  furniture  is  com- 
pared with  a  mere  weather-proof  structure  built  with  single 


THE  MODERN  HOUSE 


27 


floors,  iio  closets,  and  few  or  no  modern  improvements.  Many 
more  trades  and  much  more  equipment  than  formerly  now 
go  into  the  building  of  a  comfortable  house.  It  is  the  amount 
and  the  kind  of  equipment  that  increases  the  cost;  a  house 
30  by  40  feet  may  be  made  to  cost  $3,000  or  ?^10,000,  according 
to  the  beauty  and  finish  of  interior  woodwork,  floors,  and 
walls,  the  amount  of  plumbing,  the  number  and  kind  of  fixtures 
selected,  or  the  kind  of  heating  plant  installed. 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  MAKING  ALTERATIONS 

An}^  person  who  expects  to  make  alterations  in  a  house 
should  begin  to  ponder  improvements  a  long  time  in  advance. 
The  first  step  should  be  an  accurately  measured  record  of  the 
present  floor  plans,  drawn  at  a  scale  of  one-quarter  inch  to  the 
foot.  The  exact  size  and  position  of  walls,  openings,  closets, 
chimneys,  or  other  existing  features  should  be  located  on  these 
drawings,  which  may  then  be  studied  by  comparing  them 
with  other  good  plans  found  in  books  and  magazines.  Tissue 
paper  or  tracing  paper  may  then  be  placed  over  the  drawings 
and  alteration  sketches  freely  made.  A  dozen  arrangements 
may  thus  be  tried  on  paper,  hung  on  the  wall,  and  considered 
at  leisure.  These  plans  should  be  supplemented  by  a  building- 
book  in  which  one  may  keep  measurements,  written  data,  and 
new  ideas  as  they  occur.  In  this  book,  clippings  may  be  pasted 
and  sketches  may  be  freely  made.  These  plans  and  this  book 
correspond  in  a  rude  way  to  the  architect's  drawings  and 
specifications,  and  will  serve  to  crystallize  the  alterations  into 
definite  form. 

Generations  of  building  experience  have  shown  that  suc- 
cessful results  must  be  based  on  definite  instructions.  No 
man's  memory  should  be  trusted  for  measurements  or  other 
information,  and  verbal  directions  should  not  be  given  to 
workmen.  Building  operations  are  exceedingly  definite;  walls 
and  openings  when  in  place  cannot  be  moved  one  inch  in  order 
to  suit  a  piece  of  furniture  or  to  make  way  for  an  altered  notion. 
All  these  experimental  ideas  should  be  worked  out  on  paper. 

As  the  owner  studies  over  alteration  problems,  the  best 


28 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


arrangement  will  at  length  take  shape  in  his  own  mind.  An 
intelligible  home-made  drawing  and  an  explicit  written  list  of 
his  requirements  may  then  be  put  in  shape,  so  that  the  car- 
penter or  contractor  can  make  a  fairly  accurate  estimate  of 
the  cost  before  work  is  begun.  In  order  to  obtain  the  best 
results,  the  owner  should  read  up,  in  reliable  books,  such  sub- 
jects as  waterworks  and  heating  systems  and  should  freely 
investigate  catalogues  of  equipment. 

When  the  contemplated  alterations  are  extensive  and  there- 
fore costly,  or  when  a  new  house  must  be  built,  the  work  should 
by  all  means  be  turned  over  to  a  good  architect.  Forceful 
arrangement  and  good  design  require  trained  experience;  an 
.attempt  to  get  along  without  such  professional  help  is  false 
economy.  It  is  the  architect's  daily  business  to  put  building 
requirements  into  buildable  shape.  Practical  construction 
is  the  basis  of  his  design.  Moreover,  he  is  acquainted  with 
all  the  short  cuts  whereby  efficient  results  may  be  obtained 
quickly  and  permanently. 

References 

King,  F.  H.   Ventilation  for  Dwellings,  Rural  Schools,  and  Stables. 

Lynde,  Carleton.   Home  Waterworks. 

Putnam,  X.  W.   The  Gasoline  Engine  on  the  Farm. 

Roberts,  Isaac  Phillips.   The  Farmstead. 

Schneider,  N.  H.   Electric  Light  for  the  Farm. 

Stickley,  Gustav.   Craftsman  Homes. 

White,  Charles  E.,  Jr.  Successful  Houses  and  How  to  Build  Them. 


CHAPTER  II 


HOME  FURNISHING 

By  Annette  J.  Warner 

The  home  represents  the  most  intimate  environment  of 
the  individual.  No  matter  how  unconscious  of  their  surround- 
ings persons  may  seem,  their  tastes  and  ideas  are  affected  by 
the  things  with  which  they  hve  continually.  Such  being  the 
case,  the  woman  who  makes  it  her  task  to  provide  for  her 
family  significant  surroundings,  thereby  adds  to  the  ordinary 
experiences  of  life  a  real  factor  of  education  and  enjoyment. 

Any  rules  or  discussion  on  furnishing  the  home  must  neces- 
sarily be  very  general,  and  cannot  be  conclusive  in  deciding 
individual  problems.  The  most  that  can  be  done  is  to  review 
such  features  and  considerations  as  enter  into  all  questions 
of  home  furnishing,  hoping  thereby  to  point  the  way  to  the 
solution  of  the  individual  problem. 

Even  in  the  hands  of  an  experienced  person,  matters  of  home 
furnishing  and  of  decoration  require  a  slow^  and  thoughtful 
study.  There  are  no  shortcuts.  No  matter  how  long  it  takes 
to  make  a  decision  in  furnishing,  the  time  spent  in  so  doing 
is  insignificant  when  compared  to  the  duration  of  the  result. 
On  account  of  this  permanence  of  furnishings,  also,  an  in- 
terior cannot  afford  to  record  passing  fads,  shams  and  imi- 
tations, but  should  rather  express  lasting,  sincere,  and  dignified 
ideas. 

The  furnishings  of  the  house  should  be  consistent  in  character 
with  the  structural  interior.  Beamed  ceilings,  rough  plaster 
walls,  and  sturdy  woodwork  are  appropriate  in  a  home  of  the 
Craftsman  style.  Such  an  interior  would  be  a  suitable  back- 
ground for  mission  furniture;  it  would  be  incongruous  in  a  house 
of  Colonial  style,  or  as  a  setting  for  mahogany  furniture. 

29 


30 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


The  house  should  appear  as  though  it  were  planned  through- 
out by  one  person  for  one  locality,  one  family,  one  purse.  If 
the  house  is  in  a  southern  latitude,  comfort  is  expressed  by 
large  spaces,  long  vistas,  shadows,  cool  colors,  light  drapery, 
few  and  light-weight  rugs  and  light  furniture.  If  the  house 
is  in  a  northern  climate  or  is  used  chiefly  in  winter,  comfort  is 
expressed  by  a  large  fireplace,  warm  colorings,  large  rugs, 
heavier  and  richer  drapery,  and  some  upholstered  furniture. 
In  the  city  house,  space  and  light  are  luxuries  that  must  be 
conserved  by  every  possible  means.  In  the  country  there  are 
fewer  limitations  of  this  sort,  but  there  are  varying  conditions 
in  the  environment  of  country  houses  that  should  influence  their 
treatment. 

In  general,  simplicity  of  treatment  in  finish  and  furnishing 
preserves  the  dignity  of  the  house  and  is  always  in  good  taste. 
An  interior  should  also  be  fitted  to  its  use  in  every  part,  should 
appear  consistent,  genuine,  and  harmonious  throughout.  The 
environment  can  thus  be  made  to  typify  the  qualities  to  which 
a  family  aspires. 

STRUCTURAL  CONSIDERATION  OF  ROOMS 

Size 

The  old  ideal  for  a  room  was  the  largest,  ^^squarest^^  room 
possible  for  every  use — for  a  family  room,  bedroom,  or  kitchen. 
Changed  conditions  of  living  and  the  increased  cost  of  labor  and 
building  material  have  reduced  the  size  of  the  modern  house. 
According  to  the  varied  nature  of  their  use,  it  is  evident  that 
rooms  should  vary  in  size  and  in  shape. 

Living-room. 

The  living-room  for  the  family  should  be  the  largest  room  in 
the  house,  since  it  serves  a  greater  variety  of  purposes  and  a 
larger  number  of  persons  than  any  other  room.  The  restful 
effect  of  an  appearance  of  ample  space  is  one  of  its  charms. 
Sacrifice  of  spaciousness  in  other  parts  of  the  house  may  well 
be  made  in  order  to  provide  a  spacious  living-room.  The  actual 
size  for  a  living-room  is  a  matter  allowing  great  variation,  but 


HOME  FURNISHING 


31 


rooms  varying  from  14  to  16  feet  in  width  and  from  18  to  24 
feet  in  length  suggest  good  sizes. 

Dining-room. 

The  dining-room  is  also  a  gathering  place  for  all  the  members 
of  the  family.  It,  however,  has  but  one  center  and  serves  only 
one  function.  It  may,  therefore,  well  be  considerably  smaller 
than  the  living-room.  For  the  comfortable  serving  of  the 
meals,  at  least  three  feet  should  be  allowed  between  the  edge  of 
the  table  and  the  sideboard  or  any  other  furniture  in  the  room. 

Kitchen. 

The  kitchen  should  be  small  and  compact  in  arrangement 
and  should  not  contain  a  foot  of  unnecessary  space.  A  good 
size  for  a  kitchen  in  which  the  work  is  done  by  one  person  is 
estimated  to  be  from  100  to  150  square  feet  of  space  (page  102). 

Bedrooms. 

The  bedroom  of  the  modern  house  may  be  relatively  small 
because  the  convenience  of  built-in  closets,  of  lighter  types  of 
furniture,  and  of  bathrooms  makes  a  large  size  unnecessary. 
In  a  bedroom,  after  sufficient  space  has  been  allowed  for  pur- 
poses of  ventilation,  sleeping,  dressing,  and  storage  of  clothes, 
convenience  is  better  served  by  compactness  than  by  size. 

Halls. 

Halls  are  used  to  give  direct  access  to  all  parts  of  the  house. 
After  this  purpose  has  been  accomplished,  space  may  appro- 
priately be  economized  here  in  a  home  of  moderate  size. 

Shape  and  proportion 
Simple  rectangular  shapes  for  rooms  are  the  natural  outcome 
of  building  conditions.  Any  extension  or  projection  should  be  a 
coherent  structural  feature  and  should  be  used  only  to  satisfy 
a  need  in  the  function  of  the  room.  A  chimney  seat,  a  recess 
necessitated  by  a  dormer  window,  an  ingle  nook  when  it  works 
out  naturally  on  plan,  are  often  reasonable  features.  A  bay- 
window  built  to  add  space  or  to  improve  the  lighting  conditions 
of  a  room,  if  well  designed  may  furnish  an  interesting  decorative 


32 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Fig.  13. — A  typical  low  room  in  an  old-fashioned  cottage,  showing  how  even  a 
good  horizontal  arrangement  of  lines  and  furnishings  decreases  the  ap- 
parent height  of  the  room. 


Fig.  14. — The  same  type  of  low  room  as  in  Fig.  13,  showing  how  a  vertical  ar- 
rangement of  lines  and  furnishings  tends  to  increase  the  apparent  height 
of  the  room. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


33 


feature  both  inside  and  outside  the  house.  No  excrescences  or 
protuberances  should  be  built  merely  for  the  sake  of  original 
or  ornate  effect. 

An  oblong  is  in.  general  a  more  pleasing  shape  for  a  room  than 
is  a  square.  A  pleasing  relation  between  the  three  dimensions — 
length,  breadth,  and  height — should  if  possible  be  maintained. 
A  room  that  is  very  long  is  not  easily  adapted  to  general  uses 
and  is  lacking  in  an  effect  of  intimacy.  A  room  that  is  too  high 
is  wasteful  of  unused  space,  is  hard  to  heat,  and  is  unfriendly 
in  appearance.  In  a  room  in  which  all  the  dimensions  are  equal 
or  nearly  equal,  the  shape  is  obvious  at  once;  nothing  is  left 
to  the  imagination,  and  the  result  is  stupid  and  uninteresting. 
However,  a  square  may  sometimes  be  the  most  convenient  and 
economical  shape  for  a  room.  For  a  small  dining-room  with  a 
square  or  round  dining  table,  a  square  may  be  both  a  conven- 
ient and  a  fitting  shape.  An  oblong  in  which  one  dimension  is 
perceptibly  longer  is  much  more  pleasing  than  one  in  which 
there  is  a  doubt  as  to  comparative  dimensions.  An  excellent 
proportion  for  an  average  room  is  one  in  which  the  width  is 
more  than  half  and  less  than  two-thirds  the  length. 

In  a  house  of  moderate  cost  and  size,  it  is  not  always  possible 
to  plan  so  that  each  room  is  of  ideal  proportion.  Persons  must 
often  live  in  homes  which  they  themselves  have  not  built.  In 
such  cases  there  are  many  devices  by  which  the  apparent  pro- 
portion may  be  improved. 

Devices  for  changing  apparent  proportion  (Figs.  13-16). 

The  eye  naturally  tends  to  follow  any  continuous  line.  By 
establishing  lines  in  any  particular  direction,  therefore,  that 
direction  is  emphasized  at  the  expense  of  the  others. 

Rooms  that  are  too  high  may  be  made  to  appear  lower  by 
introducing  strong  horizontal  lines,  for  example : 

1.  By  bringing  the  ceiling  color  down  on  the  side  wall.  This 
is  successful  only  when  the  ceiling  color  is  happily  related  in  hue 
and  value  to  the  side  wall,  and  when  its  width  corresponds  to 
the  width  of  a  moderate  border  10  inches  or  12  inches,  in  a 
room  of  ordinary  dimensions,  say  14  feet  by  16  feet  by  9  feet. 


34 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Fig.  15. — A  tall  room  of  the  late  nineteenth  century  type  showing  a  placing  of 
picture  molding  and  a  selection  and  arrangement  of  furnishings  that  tend 
to  decrease  the  apparent  height  of  the  room.  Wall  coverings  of  such  dig- 
nified pattern  and  harmonious  color  as  are  shown  in  Plate  V,  may  some- 
times be  used  above  the  molding  with  decorative  effect.  Note  the  relation 
of  the  shapes  of  the  pictures  to  the  spaces. 


Fig.  16. — A  typical  modern  living-room  in  which  a  group  of  casements  and  a 
built-in  seat  dominate  the  furnishing  effect. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


1  2.  By  using  a  molding  at  the  intersection  of  side  wall  and 
j  ceiling,  and  by  making  the  picture-molding  continuous  with  the 
1    top  of  doors  or  windows. 

1       3.  By  a  wainscot  or  dado,  the  top  of  which  is  on  a  level  with 

I  I  the  window-sills. 

4.  By  using  a  valance  in  the  window  drapery,  if  this  is  con- 
sistent with  the  style  of  the  room  and  the  other  furnishings, 
i  J  and  by  hanging  all  draperies  so  that  the  width  of  the  opening 
'  is  emphasized. 

i  5.  By  using  furniture  in  which  the  horizontal  lines  dom- 
\  I  inate,  such  as  long  low  bookcases,  davenports,  sideboards,  or 
\  I  tables. 

j     6.  By  using  pictures  which  are  horizontal  oblongs  in  shape, 
I  or  by  grouping  several  smaller  pictures  so  that  either  the  lower 
:i  or  upper  edges  of  their  frames  will  establish  continuous  horizon- 
jfl  tal  lines. 

Rooms  that  are  too  low  may  be  made  to  appear  higher  by 
emphasizing  the  vertical  lines,  for  example: 
.  j      1.  By  placing  the  picture-molding  at  the  ceiling,  leaving  the 

sidewall  undivided. 
'  I      2.  By  using  vertically  striped  wall  paper.    Stripes  should 
I  always  be  of  nearly  the  same  color  or  value  in  order  to  be  un- 
I  obtrusive. 

3.  By  using  as  long  draperies  as  are  consistent  with  the  use 
i  and  structure  of  the  room,  and  by  hanging  these  in  straight 
I  folds  and  so  arranging  them  as  to  make  the  openings  high  and 

v.  narrow  in  effect. 

4.  By  the  use  of  tall  and  narrow  bookshelves,  cabinets,  and 
other  furniture. 

5.  By  the  use  of  pictures  that  are  vertical  oblongs,  or  by 
!    grouping  the  pictures  with  each  other  or  with  pieces  of  furniture 

I I  so  that  the  vertical  is  emphasized. 

In  a  room  that  is  square  or  is  too  short  an  oblong,  emphasis 
may  be  given  to  one  dimension,  for  example: 

1.  By  opening  up  a  vista  through  a  door  or  window,  or  by 
planning  interesting  features  in  the  furnishings  in  order  to 
emphasize  the  long  axis  of  the  room.    A  mirror  may  perform 


FiQ.  17. — A  study  of  windows  in  relation  to  the  adjoining  wall  space.  First  group:  A  single 
window  in  the  middle  of  a  short  wall:  a  small  double-hung  window  of  bald  design;  a 
generous  double-hung  window  with  pleasing  wall  space  around  it;  an  interesting  and 
well-placed  casement.  Second  group:  Two  separate  windows  in  a  generous  wall  space: 
a  good  arrangement  both  for  distribution  of  light  and  for  the  placing  of  furniture;  a 
poor  arrangement  both  for  lighting  and  for  furnishing.  Third  and  fourth  groups: 
Pairs  and  groups  of  windows  in  a  generous  wall  space:  a  fair  arrangement  for  a  pair 
of  double-hung  windows,  providing  good  light  and  good  wall  space;  an  interesting 
group  of  casements,  dominating  the  wall  space  and  furnishing  abundant  light;  a  pleas- 
ing group  of  double-hung  windows;  a  pleasing  arrangement  of  French  windows.  The 
use  of  moldings  in  any  case  must  be  related  to  the  proportion  of  the  room  and  the 
structural  line  of  the  openings. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


37 


a  valuable  office  in  adding  to  the  apparent  length  of  a  room. 
The  French  have  understood  this  and  have  increased  the  ap- 
parent size  of  dance-hall  and  dining-room  by  the  skillful  use 
of  many  mirrors. 

II      2.  By  placing  the  long  dimension  of  a  rug  in  the  direction 
'  to  be  emphasized.    If  the  room  is  sufficiently  large  and  the 
other  conditions  warrant  it,  two  narrow  rugs  so,  placed  as  to 
;  emphasize  the  length  of  the  room  may  be  used, 
li      3.  By  placing  the  long  pieces  of  furniture  in  the  direc- 

I  tion  to  be  emphasized.  Seats  or  shelves  may  sometimes  be 
built  in. 

In  rooms  that  are  too  long,  the  apparent  width  should  be 
']  increased  and  the  apparent  length  diminished  by  every  device 
I  possible,  for  example: 

'  1.  By  placing  openings  or  important  structural  features 
I  centrally  on  the  long  sides,  thus  breaking  the  length  of  the 
I  room  into  two  or  more  furnishing  centers. 

l|  2.  By  using  more  than  one  rug,  placed  with  the  long  edges 
parallel  to  the  short  side  of  the  room,  in  order  to  break  up  the 
space  and  establish  lines  across  the  room. 

13.  By  placing  the  long  pieces  of  furniture  or  by  grouping 
I  furniture  so  that  the  width  rather  than  the  length  of  the  room 
1  is  emphasized. 

Location  of  windows  and  doors  (Figs.  17,  18). 
The  location,  style,  and  proportion  of  windows  and  doors 
n  are  structural  considerations  that  affect  every  interior.  The 
'    amount  and  shapes  of  the  remaining  wall  spaces  after  windows 
and  doors  have  been  placed  define  the  possibilities  of  the  fur- 
,  nishing  scheme.    It  is,  therefore,  important  to  arrange  windows 
I  and  doors  in  such  a  way  as  to  leave  usable  wall  spaces.  These 

I I  spaces  should  be  so  pleasing  in  shape  and  proportion  that 
the  bare  room  is  in  itself  a  design.  Many  doors  in  a  room 
are  an  evidence  of  poor  planning.  While  there  is  no  rule 
about  windows,  an  amount  of  window  area  equal  to  about 
one-fourth  the  floor  area  will  in  general  be  found  a  reasonable 
guide. 


38 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


HOME  FURNISHING 


39 


Structural  surfaces. 
The  structural  surfaces  of  the  room  are  walls,  ceiling,  and 
floor. 

Walls  include  plaster  walls,  windows,  doors,  and  trim. 
Plaster  walls. 

The  usual  finish  for  the  walls  of  a  dwelling  is  plaster.  Plaster 
may  be  rough  or  smooth.  It  may  be  left  in  the  natural  color, 
painted,  or  papered. 

1.  Rough  plaster:  The  irregularities  in  rough,  or  sand-finished, 
plaster  produce  an  effect  of  texture  that  makes  such  a  wall 
an  attractive  background.  The  natural  color  of  rough  plaster 
varies  according  to  the  color  of  the  sand  used  in  mixing  it. 
Sometimes  it  is  a  pure  gray,  sometimes  it  is  tinged  with  soft 
tones  of  warm  color.  Powdered  color  may  be  mixed  with  the 
plaster  when  it  is  wet,  if  the  mason  is  sufficiently  experienced 
to  handle  it.  Rough  plaster  should  be  applied  by  a  skillful 
workman  in  order  to  produce  a  uniform  effect.  Rough  plaster 
is  rather  harsh  in  texture  and  is  not  suitable  in  all  rooms  or 
with  all  woods.  It  is  more  akin  to  hard  woods  like  oak,  waxed 
or  stained,  than  to  mahogany  or  satinwood  or  painted  woods. 
It  is  incongruous  with  delicate  or  very  luxurious  hangings. 
It  is  better  in  family  rooms  than  in  bedrooms  or  small  rooms 
in  which  hands  come  often  in  contact  with  the  wall.  If  rough 
plaster  is  spotted  or  discolored,  it  is  not  so  easy  to  clean  as 
smooth  plaster.  If  the  discoloration  is  only  on  the  surface, 
it  may  be  removed  by  pumice  stone. 

If  it  is  desired  to  change  the  color  of  rough  plastered  walls, 
oil  paint  is  a  very  good  medium;  a  coat  of  glue-size  applied 
before  the  paint  will  facilitate  the  work  and  will  economize 
the  amount  of  paint. 

2.  Smooth  plaster:  Walls  finished  in  smooth  plaster  present 
an  even  flat  surface,  not  so  interesting  as  the  rough  plaster, 
but  with  many  advantages.  It  is  easier  to  apply  and  is  easily 
cleaned.  Smooth  plaster  should  be  painted  or  papered,  since 
its  glaring  white  surfaxe  is  a  trying  element  in  almost  any 
color  scheme. 


40  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING  ■ 

3.  Smooth  plaster  painted  (oil  color  or  water  color) :  Paint 
has  an  advantage  over  paper  in  that  any  subtlety  of  tint  or  l 
tone  may  be  obtained  through  skillful  mixing.    In  general,  in  j 
the  use  of  house  paint,  white  will  lighten  any  color  and  black  i 
will  darken  any  color;  but  in  the  case  of  the  yellows,  since  black 
paint  tends  to  develop  green  shades  in  them,  dark  brown  paint 
should  be  substituted  for  the  black.    Oil  color  is  more  durable  , 
than  water  color.    Although  oil  paint  is  more  expensive  in  the  ' 
beginning  than  water  color,  it  is  more  economical  in  the  end  ; 
for  use  in  rooms  that  are  constantly  occupied,  or  on  parts  of  \ 
walls  that  are  subject  to  the  frequent  contact  of  hands  or  fur-  \ 
niture,  such  as  schoolrooms,  nurseries,  kitchens,  or  corridors.  ; 

Oil  color  sometimes  has  a  disagreeable  shine.    This  may  be 
avoided  by  adding  turpentine  or  by  flat  finishing  (pouncing  ; 
with  a  broad  flat  bristle  brush).    Oil  colors  may  be  obtained  I 
already  mixed,  but  they  frequently  vary  from  sample.  A 
better  plan  is  to  buy  the  ingredients  and  have  them  mixed 
only  a  short  time  before  using.    Different  surfaces  require  \ 
different  proportions  of  paint,  oil,  turpentine,  and  the  like. 
An  even  tone  throughout  the  room  is  always  safe,  but  a  very 
attractive  effect  may  be  obtained  by  an  uneven  tone.    For  i 
example,  the  walls  might  be  painted  a  gray  blue  and  stippled  : 
with  a  gray  green.    Such  treatment  produces  an  effect  of  at-  ; 
mosphere  suggesting  space.    It  should  never  be  attempted  I 
except  by  an  experienced  painter.    Oil  color  is  easily  cleaned  | 
by  washing  with  soap  and  water.  | 

Water  color,  or  calcimine,  has  the  advantage  of  being  in-j 
expensive,  and  less  skill  is  required  in  applying  it.  Water' 
color  may  be  applied  over  other  surfaces,  such  as  paper,  beaver-  { 
board,  or  calcimine,  but  wall  paper  should  not  be  put  on  over  I 
calcimine  as  it  is  likely  to  strip  off.  Water  color  walls  cannot 
be  washed  but  can  be  easily  freshened  by  the  application  of  a 
second  coat.  Water  color  is  the  most  common  treatment  for  I 
ceilings  even  though  the  side  walls  may  be  painted  or  papered.  I 

4.  Paper  or  textiles:  Smooth  plastered  walls  are  often  cov- | 
ered  with  paper  or  a  textile;  this  treatment  is  effective  in  many 
furnishing  schemes  and  is  especially  adaptable  in  old  houses.  • 


HOME  FURNISHING 


41 


Wainscots. 

Wainscoting  treatments  formed  by  chair-rail  or  paneling 
of  various  heights  suggest  a  variety  of  decorative  effects  which 
are  appropriate  for  important  rooms,  such  as  living-room, 
dining-room,  and  hall.  A  paneled  treatment  of  wood  or  of 
moldings  and  plaster  is  dignified  and  effective,  provided  the 
wall  and  window  spaces  will  accommodate  themselves  to  such 
an  arrangement.  Obviously,  panelled  treatments  can  be 
studied  only  in  relation  to  the  individual  room. 

Trim  of  walls. 

The  trim  of  the  room  may  be  thought  of  as  part  of  the  wall 
or  as  a  frame  for  an  opening.  If  the  room  is  small  or  the  open- 
ings many  and  not  well  placed,  the  trim  should  be  subordinated 
to  the  wall  treatment.  But  if  the  room  is  of  good  size  and  the 
windows  and  doors  are  well  proportioned  and  well  placed, 
the  trim  will  bear  more  emphasis. 

Except  in  fireproof  houses,  a  certain  amount  of  w^oodwork 
is  needed  to  cover  the  bony  joints  of  construction  and  to  com- 
plete the  finish  of  the  room.  The  same  kind  of  wood  and  the. 
same  finish  should  be  used  throughout  the  room,  with  the 
possible  exception  of  the  floor.  Since  the  woodwork  furnishes 
both  a  structural  and  a  decorative  element  in  the  room,  its 
choice  should  be  considered  from  both  standpoints.  The  trim 
covering  the  joints  and  framing  doors  and  w^indows,  should 
be  wide  enough  to  look  adequate  for  this  service,  but  not  so 
heavy  nor  so  ornate  as  to  be  obtrusive  in  the  part  it  plays  in 
the  background  of  the  room.  A  good  width  for  the  trim  for 
the  openings  in  average  rooms  is  between  33^  and  5  inches. 
Hard  woods  finished  to  show  their  character  are  excellent  if 
the  grain  is  not  too  conspicuous.  Quartered  oak  with  its  modest 
grain  and  possibilities  of  finish  is  very  fitting  for  the  woodwork 
of  a  room  in  which  oak  furniture  is  to  be  used. 

Other  woods,  such  as  hard  pine  and  cypress,  are  susceptible 
to  treatment  that  makes  them  very  eft"ective.  Woods  of  an 
inconspicuous  grain,  or  cut  so  that  the  grain  does  not  obtrude 
itself,  should  be  chosen  for  trim.   A  wood  with  a  bold  swirhng 


42 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


grain  or  with  strong  contrasts  of  light  and  dark  is  a  poor  choice 
for  interior  work,  for  it  is  too  restless  and  insistent  to  take  its 
place  quietly  in  any  decorative  scheme.  Fortunately,  the  item 
of  expense  is  a  protection  against  the  use  of  woods  so  aggres- 
sive in  color  as  mahogany,  curly  birch,  and  the  like.  Such 
woods  should  be  reserved  for  furniture. 

The  woodwork  should  play  a  definite  part  in  the  decorative 
scheme  of  the  room,  harmonizing  with  the  walls  both  in  char- 
acter and  color.  If  the  harmony  cannot  be  secured  by  trans- 
parent stains,  the  woodwork  should  be  painted.  In  fact,  in 
many  old  »or  ready-made  houses,  paint  for  woodwork  is  the 
only  means  of  securing  a  harmonious  interior. 

Filler,  stain,  thin  shellac,  and  wax  are  commonly  used  to  se- 
cure the  transparent  finish  desirable  for  hard  woods.  Woods 
with  large  or  open  grain,  such  as  oak,  chestnut,  cypress,  and 
pine,  require  a  filler  to  make  a  smooth  even  surface.  This  filler 
may  be  kept  the  same  color  as  the  wood,  or  it  may  be  stained 
darker,  or  a  very  light  whitish  filler  may  be  used.  The  effect 
of  this  filler  is  to  tone,  to  modify,  or  to  emphasize  the  natiu-al 
markings  of  the  wood.  Woods  with  a  close  inconspicuous  grain, 
such  as  maple  and  birch,  do  not  require  a  filler,  but  can  be 
toned  by  staining.  Wax  is  a  more  pleasing  finish  for  hardwoods 
than  is  varnish,  which  should  be  used  only  on  bathroom  floors 
or  other  places  where  durability  is  perhaps  more  important 
than  appearance.  The  soft  dull  finish  of  a  waxed  surface  is  more 
appropriate  to  wood  than  the  glaring  shiny  finish  of  varnish. 

Paint  is  an  opaque  finish  used  to  cover  woods  having  an  un- 
pleasant or  no  visible  grain.  Such  woods  as  soft  pine,  white 
wood,  and  cypress  are  good  foundations  for  painted  woodwork. 
By  means  of  paint,  any  woodwork  can  be  adjusted  in  color  to 
its  surroundings.  This  fiexibility  of  paint  in  relation  to  color 
schemes  is  a  strong  recommendation  in  its  favor  for  both  old  and 
new  work  and  for  all  types  of  rooms. 

Doors. 

Doors  of  good  pattern  in  various  woods  may  be  obtained 
ready-made  in  standard  sizes.   They  should  be  of  the  same  gen- 


HOME  FURNISHING 


43 


eral  finish  as  the  trim  and  other  woodwork.  Doors  of  uniform 
height  on  each  floor  contribute  to  unity  of  effect.  The  width 
may  be  varied  for  convenience. 

Mantelpieces,  cornices,  and  picture-moldings. 

Any  wood  used  in  connection  with  such  features  as  fireplaces 
should  be  consistent  in  character  and  finish  with  the  other 
trim  of  the  room.  The  mantel  should  be  planned  with  and  for 
the  room,  not  purchased  ready-made  and  grafted  upon  it.  Like- 
wise any  tile  or  brick  facings  used  in  the  fireplace  should  har- 
monize in  texture  and  color  with  the  entire  decorative  scheme. 

A  cornice  of  wood  like  the  trim  may  mark  the  intersection 
of  ceihng  and  side  wall  and  should  of  course  be  finished  like  the 
other  woodwork.  A  picture-molding  marking  this  intersection 
is  an  effective  finish  for  low  rooms  or  those  of  ordinary  height. 
A  picture-molding  so  placed  should  be  heavier  than  one  lower 
on  the  wall.  In  some  cases,  a  second  molding  may  be  used  on 
the  wall  some  distance  below  the  one  at  the  ceiling.  This  second 
molding  then  becomes  the  picture-rail. 

Ceiling. 

The  treatment  of  the  ceiling  should  harmonize  with  the 
finish  of  the  walls  and  woodwork.  Ordinarily  the  ceilings  in 
dwellings  are  finished  with  plaster.  This  lends  itself  through 
the  use  of  calcimine  (water  color  paints),  to  any  color  scheme. 
Paper  is  a  less  desirable  finish  for  ceilings.  If  it  must  be  used,  as 
sometimes  happens  in  old  houses  where  the  ceiling  has  cracked 
or  become  discolored,  a  plain  tone  should  be  chosen.  If  a 
ceiling  is  cracked,  canvas  or  burlap  may  be  put  over  the  old 
plaster  and  then  paint  or  calcimine  applied  to  it. 

Beamed  ceilings  produce  an  interesting  structural  and  dec- 
orative effect.  The  beams  should  preferably  be  finished  like 
the  other  woodwork  in  the  room.  If  peculiar  problems  are 
presented  by  the  woodwork,  the  finish  of  the  beams  may  be 
considered  only  in  relation  to  the  ceiling.  Beamed  ceilings  are 
often  found  in  houses  of  early  colonial  architecture.  They  are 
also  a  feature  of  the  new  Craftsman  houses.    In  the  first  case 


44  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

they  would  usually  be  painted,  since  most  of  the  woodwork  1^5 
painted;  in  the  latter,  they  would  be  finished  like  the  oak  or 
similar  woods  generally  used. 

Ceilings  of  wood,  except  in  sheathed  or  paneled  rooms,, 
are  likely  to  look  heavy  and  oppressive.  In  summer  cottagesl 
and  in  some  parts  of  the  country,  rooms  sheathed  and  ceiled] 
in  yellow  pine  or  cypress  are  often  finished  in  the  natural  color] 
and  varnished.  Paint  is  the  only  antidote  and  should  be  used 
on  the  ceiling  at  least,  after  cutting"  the  varnish.  White 
metal  ceilings  are  in  line  with  the  progress  toward  fireproof, 
construction.  They  cannot  as  yet  be  obtained  in  pleasing  pat- 
tern except  for  very  large  rooms,  and  even  here  their  construc- 
tion is  unpleasantly  obtrusive. 

Floors. 

Floors  are  made  to  be  walked  upon  and  are  subject  to  hard 
usage.  They  should,  therefore,  be  durable.  Floors  cannot  be 
easily  changed;  therefore  they  should  be  permanent  in  material 
and  finish.  Since  they  contribute  to  the  color  scheme  of  the 
room,  they  should  be  finished  accordingly.  Floors  continuous 
in  color  as  far  as  the  eye  can  see  have  a  unifying  effect.  Wood 
is  the  material  most  used  for  floors,  Wood  that  is  hard,  of  in- 
conspicuous grain,  and  responsive  to  color  treatment  should  be 
chosen.  Well  selected  oak  is  probably  the  best.  Maple  and 
birch  are  very  durable,  but  light  in  color;  hard  pine  is  also 
possible  and  relatively  inexpensive.  The  matter  of  color  and 
finish  can  be  regulated  to  some  extent  to  suit  the  character  of 
wood  selected  and  the  color  scheme  of  the  room. 

Hardwood  floors  should  in  general  be  finished  like  hardwood 
trim,  except  that  caution  should  be  observed  in  attempting  dark 
stains,  because  all  floors  through  usage  tend  to  wear  back  to 
the  natural  color  of  the  wood.  Since  all  wood  floors  tend  to 
darken  in  time,  the  rather  light  appearance  of  a  new  floor  should 
be  endured  with  patience.  If  after  a  period  of  time  the  tone 
of  the  floor  still  appears  too  light,  it  is  easier  to  darken  it  slightly 
than  to  remove  a  dark  mussy  stain.  Furthermore,  rugs  can 
always  be  relied  on  to  remedy  the  color  effect  of  the  bare  floor. 


HOME  FURNISHING  45 

Softwood  floors  of  pine,  such  as  are  often  found  in  old  houses, 
can  be  finished  by  fiUing  the  spaces  between  the  boards  with 
either  a  standard  or  home-made  crack-filler  and  then  applying 
two  or  more  coats  of  good  hard  paint,  such  as  the  ordinar^^  deck 
]  paint.   Some  housekeepers  have  had  success  with  a  crack-filler 
I  made  of  flour  paste  into  which  a  pulp  of  damp  newspaper  is 
'beaten.    Under  all  conditions,  however,  a  painted  floor  is  a 
compromise  and  will  require  frequent  renewals. 

COLOR 

Color  is  more  potent  in  creating  the  atmosphere  of  a  house  or 
room  than  is  any  other  influence.  Harmonious  color  will  cover 
a  multitude  of  sins  in  design,  while  no  amount  of  good  design 
will  atone  for  discordant  color. 

Color  produces  a  distinct  reaction  on  the  human  system; 
it  is  cheering,  depressing,  irritating,  or  restful,  as  the  case  may 
be.  It  is,  therefore,  of  primary  importance  to  understand  the 
right  use  of  color  in  the  home.  Since  the  question  of  color  is 
involved  in  the  finish  of  walls  and  of  woodwork,  it  is  the  first 
factor  to  be  considered  in  the  treatment  of  an  interior. 

Color  has  three  generally  recognizable  characteristics:  First, 
that  quality  that  gives  it  its  general  or  popular  name  and  dis- 
tinguishes it  from  other  colors — as  red  from  green,  or  yellow- 
reds  from  purple-reds,  yellow-greens  from  blue-greens,  and  the 
like.  This  quality  is  named  by  the  scientists,  hue.  Hues,  or 
colors,  may  in  general  be  classed  as  warm  or  cool.  Yellow, 
orange,  red,  and  colors  strongly  tinged  with  these,  connected 
as  they  are  with  ideas  of  sun  and  fire  and  blood,  are  the  warm 
colors.  Blue,  green,  and  violet,  and  colors  strongly  tinged  with 
these,  associated  in  thought  with  cold  and  distant  things  like 
ice,  the  sky,  the  woods,  and  purple  hills,  are  the  cool  colors. 

A  second  characteristic  or  quality  of  color  is  the  strength 
or  brilliancy,  termed  by  the  scientists,  chroma  or  intensity. 
By  this  quality,  a  strong  or  bright  color  is  distinguished  from 
a  soft,  duUed,  or  grayed  color,  as  the  red  in  the  upper  from 
the  red  in  the  under  side  of  an  autumn  leaf. 

The  third  characteristic  or  quaUty  is  that  which  distinguishes 


46 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


light  from  dark  colors,  termed  by  the  scientists,  value.  Pi. 
popular  term  for  light  colors  is  tint;  for  dark  colors,  shade. 

Recognized  influences  of  color 

Hue. 

Colors  in  which  there  is  a  suggestion  of  yellow  or  orange  or 
red,  the  warm  colors,  such  as  tones  of  tan  or  buff  or  old  gold 
or  brown  or  yellow-green,  or  the  ''warm  grays,"  such  as  taupe 
or  ''sand''  or  "mode"  colors,  are  likely  to  produce  a  warmth 
of  atmosphere  that  makes  them  in  general  agreeable  to  live 
with.  These  colors  are  likely  also  to  harmonize  with  the  wood- 
work in  the  average  house  and  to  furnish  a  becoming  back- 
ground for  the  usual  wood  and  willow  furniture. 

Red  or  reddish  colors  are  too  aggressive  and  insistent  to  be 
used  in  large  quantities.  Red  also  tends  to  diminish  the  ap- 
parent size  of  a  room. 

Yellow  and  yellowish  colors  are  in  general  light,  bright,  and 
cheerful  in  effect. 

Blue  or  bluish  colors,  while  they  tend  to  increase  the  ap- 
parent size  of  a  room,  are  inclined  to  absorb  the  light  and  to 
be  forbidding  if  used  in  large  quantities. 

Green,  which  is  a  mixture  of  yellow  and  blue,  and  greenish 
colors  are  in  general  quiet  and  restful  in  effect  without  being 
depressing. 

Violet  is  the  color  characteristic  of  mystery  and  shadow 
and  royalty,  and  should  be  avoided  or  used  with  great  dis- 
crimination in  a  home. 

In  general,  colors  composed  of  two  or  more  colors,  whether 
of  paint,  of  dye,  or  the  interweaving  of  colored  threads  in  a 
fabric,  are  more  interesting,  more  refined,  and  more  atmos- 
pheric in  effect  than  the  very  evident  reds  and  yellows  and 
blues. 

Intensity  or  chroma. 

Strong* or  bright  colors  are  not  appropriate  for  use  in  large 
masses,  such  as  wall  or  floor  coverings,  because  they  are  too 
insistent  and  aggressive  and  they  do  not  easily  harmonize 


HOME  FURNISHING 


47 


with  the  furnishings  in  the  average  home.  These  strong  colors 
may  be  used  in  small  masses,  such  as  a  bouquet  of  flowers,  books, 
or  a  textile,  to  add  a  note  of  interest  or  to  accent  a  color  scheme. 

Dulled  or  grayed  colors  are  in  general  appropriate  to  use 
in  large  masses,  such  as  wall  or  floor  coverings,  because  they 
are  restful  in  effect  and  keep  their  place  as  background.  A 
greater  variety  of  these  grayed  colors  may  be  used  harmo- 
niously in  the  same  room  than  would  be  possible  with  a  com- 
bination of  bright  colors. 

Value, 

Light  colors  in  general  tend  to  increase  the  apparent  size 
of  a  room,  to  make  a  room  seem  lighter,  and  to  produce  an 
effect  of  daintiness,  of  cleanliness,  and  of  cheer;  they  also  are 
more  luminous  and,  therefore,  very  effective  in  artificial  light. 
Used  to  excess,  or  inappropriately,  light  color  may  produce 
an  effect  of  bareness  or  aloofness. 

Dark  colors  in  general  tend  to  diminish  the  apparent  size 
of  a  room,  to  produce  an  effect  of  dignity  or  richness.  Colors 
that  are  too  dark  are  likely  to  be  oppressive  or  to  produce  an 
effect  of  gloom  or  dinginess,  and  are  very  difficult  to  illuminate 
by  night.  Middle  values,  that  is,  colors  that  are  about  half- 
way between  the  extremes  of  light  and  dark,  are  in  general 
more  appropriate  for  the  furnishings  in  living-rooms.  Strong 
contrasts  in  light  and  dark,  such  as  light  woodwork  with  dark 
walls,  or  dark  woodwork  with  light  walls,  dark  figures  on  a 
light  ground,  or  the  opposite,  produce  a  distracting  and  unrest- 
ful  effect. 

Considerations  governing  color  selection 
From  the  foregoing  discussion  it  follows  that: 

1.  Southerly  rooms  with  a  superabundance  of  light  and  sun- 
shine need,  in  general  cool  and  dark  colors  to  temper  the  light. 

2.  Northerly  rooms  with  no  sunshine  and  too  little  light 
need  in  general  light,  yellowish  colors  to  introduce  a  feeling 
of  cheer  and  sunshine. 

3.  Rooms  that  are  comfortably  lighted  and  sufficiently 
sunny  are  open  to  a  variety  of  color  treatments, 


4S  .1  MANUM.  or  iioMi'!  /l/.lA7,v^'  I 

I.  IvooiiiM        .'lie  ()\  ('r-lnr^(^  niid  yd  mc  comlorl nhly 

mny  Ix'  n  iimhc  liicudly  jihixm  I  l>y  llic  use  of  wnrm  coIoi'h 

ili.'ii  im^  iiKMliiiiii  (I.Mik. 

r>.  In  rooiiiH  Mini  nic  loo  Mm:ill  mid  yd  nrc  romloil nhly 
lighl(Ml,  n.  rcu^lin^'  of  .Mpncc  mii  he  snv^i'icslcd  hy  Ihc  ii  ic  ol  liu;lil; 
or  hluinh  colors. 

{\.  Ill  rooiMM  ill  w  hich  I  he  woodwork  is  nhc.Mly  liiiishcd 
cMMiiol  he  ('h.'i!i|j;(Ml,  llu'  color  Hchciiic  is  within  Nniils  prcdi*- 
rcrniiiicd.    I'Voni  it  wnlls  nnd  furniMhin^s  nuist  tnlu*  their  r\u\ 

V.  IvooniH  th.'it  Mi'(>  coinl'oi'tMhIy  hiv^i'  nnd  h^ht  niid  vvitli  no 
hiiinpcrin^;  <*ondition.M  iwv  opcMi  to  n  variety  of  color  liH^ntnuMitH. 

S.  'rh(^  hvin^-rooni  nd.'iptiMl  to  innny  ns(»s  tind  wmuy  |UM*sonH 
nliould  nH»r(^  (hjj.nilicd  nnd  inipcrsonnl  in  color  schiMiu*  tlmil 
(he  other  I'ooiiiM  ol  (he  holI^;(^  II  should  he  iiioii^  iKMlli'nl  in  itH 
f-'vnernl  Mclieiiie  in  ordei'  (o  he  ndnplnhle  lo  n  ••;ren(er  xni'iety 
ol  coloriiii';  in  I  he  siiinller  nrens.  Hooks,  piehires,  nn  open 
lir(\  llou(M"  nriniii-'^enienl s.  niid  olher  eli:ini';iiii';  nnd  nccidentnl 
conditions  ine\'ilnhly  hi'in^'  mniiy  ((niches  of  hrillinnt  nnd 
vnryin^  color  inio  (h(>  livin^-rooni. 

\).  A  dinin^-i'ooni  (Ic^voIimI  (o  ^ood  cheer  nnd  iisimI  only  for 
shorl  piM'iod.s  ndmils  n.  li\'(»litM*  ( r(\n(  ineid .  Sonie(iin(\s  dislu^s 
(lut(  hn\'(^  n  d(M'ided  coloi'  inny  well  t:;i\t'  (he  keyno(e  lo  (ho 
color  scheme. 

10.  Since  (he  hedrooin  is  hn-  slec^p  nnd  res( ,  ex  tni  lhon!ji;h  it 
is  I'oi'  ptn'son.Ml  nse  nnd  nllows  n  lni>»;(M'  mni'v;in  h>r  individiinl 
prt^hn'iMice  (linn  do  olher  rooms,  no(hini»;  shonid  (nke  preced(M»co 
oNcr  (hose  tiiinlilicn ( ion.s  (hn(  li(  i(  i'or  i(s  pnl*pos(^  Tlu*  whiles 
hed,  whi(e  lowi^Is.  niul  lis^hl  Inrmliire  chnrnc(tM'is(  ic  of  (ho 
dninliiu^sH  di^sinihlc^  in  luMh'ooms,  cnll  lor  lii!;h((n-  cok)ri!ii!,s  (hnn 
do  (h(*  I'nmily  rooms.  l'\>r  Ix^drooms  used  niso  loi-  l>o(h  sdidy 
nnd  ,';il  ( iiii';  I'eem,  compromi.^uvs  imisl  \)c  ninde.  Tlu'  whllo 
\h\\  is  no  lon«',er  .siiil .nhks  (he  hedroom  (nkes  on  (lie  rimc(ionrt 
nnd.  lh(Meloi(\  should  n.'isiiiiu^  (he  npptvirnnce  ol'  n  li\ int^'-rooni 
ns  l.ir  ns  possihl(\ 

II.  Sinct>  (h(*  hndiroom  should  npp(\'ii*,  ns  wi^ll  ns  Ih\  im- 
mncnln((\  nil  while  or  whil(^  wi(h  oIluM'  li^hl  c()hM"s  is  most, 
snilnble.    N\  hile  w  i(h  y(>llo\v  l\>r  a.  hnthroom  on  (ho  north  sido 


HOME  FURNISHING 


of  a  house,  white  and  blue  or  white  and  green  for  a  sunny 
bathroom,  are  good. 

12.  For  the  kitchen,  hght  colors  are  cheerful  and  cleanly  in 
appearance.  They  have  the  added  value  of  so  diffusing  the 
light  both  by  day  and  by  night  that  there  need  be  no  dark 
corners  to  work  in. 

It  follows  from  all  these  manifest  influences  of  color,  that 
the  rooms  to  be  treated  should  be  examined  as  to  exposure, 
lighting,  size,  proportion,  and  use  before  determining  the 
1  color  scheme. 

'  Color  for  the  whole  interior 

A  uniform  coloring  for  the  walls  of  a  series  of  connecting 

rooms  contributes  to  unity  of  effect.    A  sufficient  variety  in 

effect  may  be  secured  by  varying  the  color  or  pattern  of  dra- 
i  peries  and  other  furnishings  in  the  different  rooms, 
j!     It  seldom  happens  that  all  the  rooms  on  a  floor  have  the 

same  exposure,  or  the  same  amount  of  light  or  the  same  use. 

Every  need  may  be  considered  and  yet  a  friendly  harmony 
j  obtained  by  the  use  of  closely  related  colors  that  may  range 
^  from  light  to  dark  in  value  and  through  a  series  of  related  hues. 

The  parts  of  the  room  as  a  background 
jj      The  ceiling,  the  side  wall,  and  the  floor  form  the  background 
I  of  the  room  against  which  all  the  furnishings  and  the  occupants 
of  the  room  are  seen.    Like  the  frame  of  a  picture,  the  back- 
ground should  be  subordinate  in  color  as  well  as  in  amount  of 
detail.    This  limitation,  far  from  minimizing  the  importance 
of  the  background,  gives  it  an  added  distinction,  and  demands 
I  for  it  the  most  careful  consideration.   The  function  of  the  back- 
i  ground  is  to  serve.  While  not  obtruding  itself,  it  should  through 
:   its  color  supply  a  pervading  influence  that  may  be  felt  like  an 
:   atmosphere.    This  province  of  the  background  is  best  filled,  as 
has  been  said  in  the  discussion  of  color,  by  subdued  warm 
colors,  not  too  dark,  that  harmonize  with  the  more  usual  types 
.    of  furnishings  and  methods  of  lighting.    (See  Plate  III.) 
'      CeiHng,  side  walls,  and  floor  are  parts  of  one  whole.  They 
should,  therefore,  be  keyed  to  the  same  color.   This  important 


50  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING  1 

point  has  often  been  disregarded.  The  ceilings  have  been  madei 
white,  the  floors  constructed  of  any  convenient  wood  without 
reference  to  its  color;  the  color  of  the  walls  has  been  chosen  with- 
out reference  to  either  floor  or  ceiling.  In  the  distribution  of 
color  values  in  the  background,  the  old  analogy,  often  repeated, 
holds  good :  the  side  walls  of  a  room  correspond  in  value  to  the 
middle  distance  in  a  landscape;  the  ceiling  corresponds  to  the 
sky  which  is  lightest  of  the  three;  the  floor  to  the  ground,  which 
is  the  darkest.  This  is  not  a  mere  fancy.  A  very  dark  ceiling 
or  sky  is  threatening  and  oppressive  in  effect.  The  dark  tones 
of  the  ground  contribute  to  an  effect  of  stability  and  support 
that  are  fundamental  in  a  serviceable  floor. 

Walls  and  trim. 

The  wall  color,  being  most  in  evidence  as  a  background,  cover- 
ing a  greater  area  than  either  ceiling  or  floor  and  serving  as  the 
connecting  link  between  these,  should  be  the  determining  factor 
in  the  selection  of  the  color  scheme  and  naturally  would  be 
decided  first.  The  color  of  the  wall  should  be  selected  after  a 
diagnosis  of  such  considerations  as  location,  size,  lighting  and 
use  of  the  room,  and  the  recognized  influence  of  color  already 
discussed  (pages  46  and  47).  The  color  of  ceiling,  floor,  and 
woodwork  would  then  be  chosen  in  relation  to  it. 

If  the  color  of  the  trim,  which  is  really  a  part  of  the  wall, 
has  been  determined  first,  the  color  of  the  wall  should  be  related 
to  it.  Golden  oak,  cypress,  and  mahogany  furniture  limit  the 
choice  of  the  wall  color  to  tones  closely  related  to  that  of  the 
wood.  If  a  householder  is  already  supplied  with  furniture  of  a 
decided  character  or  color,  the  choice  of  color  scheme  is  limited 
in  the  same  way.  The  furniture  in  such  a  case  will  determine  the  ^ 
color  of  the  walls. 

Woodwork  painted  to  match  the  wall  color  increases  the 
apparent  size  of  the  room;  it  also  renders  less  conspicuous  ir- 
regularities and  poor  design  in  doors  and  windows.  Usually 
the  woodwork  may  well  be  made  a  tone  lighter  or  a  tone 
darker  than  the  wall.  Paint  for  the  woodwork  in  bedrooms 
or  any  room  with  a  light  color  scheme  should  be  toned;  a 


HOME  FURNISHING 


51 


cream  or  ivory  tone  is  usually  more  gracious  than  a  dead 
white. 

If  it  is  necessary  to  finish  the  woodwork  before  the  wall  color 
can  be  known,  a  neutral  color  is  the  only  safe  choice. 

Ceiling. 

While  the  ceiling  should  be  keyed  to  the  color  of  the  side  wall, 
this  should  be  done  very  carefully,  since  any  light  ceihng  will 
absorb  some  color  from  the  side  wall.  The  ordinary  method  of 
lighting  a  room  by  windows  placed  in  the  side  wall  obviates  to 
a  considerable  degree  the  effect  of  a  white  ceiling.  The  light 
strikes  the  side  wall  directly,  leaving  the  ceihng  inevitably  much 
darker  than  white.  This  should  be  kept  in  mind  in  selecting 
the  tint  for  the  ceiling,  lest  it  be  too  dark  for  the  effective  light- 
ing of  the  room;  and  it  should  not  be  forgotten  when  a  ceihng 
color  is  extended  to  the  side  wall.  In  such  a  case  the  color  that 
comes  on  a  side  wall  should  be  several  tones  darker  in  order  to 
appear  of  the  same  tone  as  the  ceiling  color. 

Floors. 

It  is  more  difficult  to  regulate  the  color  of  wood  floors  than 
that  of  ceiling  or  side  wall,  because  while  it  is  desirable  to  re- 
late the  color  of  the  floor  to  the  side  wall,  there  is  a  distinct 
limit  to  the  range  of  color  in  wood  floors.  Floors  are  often  too 
light  in  value,  but  for  practical  reasons  this  cannot  always  be 
avoided.  Whatever  has  to  be  accepted  in  the  color  of  the  floor, 
however,  may  fortunately  be  corrected  by  a  good  choice  of  rugs. 

PATTERN  (plates  IV,  v) 

An  exhaustive  discussion  of  pattern  would  involve  the  whole 
theory  and  practice  of  design,  but  the  usual  mistakes  of  the 
home-maker  in  choosing  wall  paper,  drapery,  upholstery,  and 
rugs  may  be  avoided  by  an  understanding  of  what  constitutes 
good  pattern  and  the  kind  of  pattern  appropriate  for  different 
uses.  On  account  of  the  constant  influx  of  novelty  goods  that 
tiend  to  bewilder  and  confuse  the  purchaser,  a  fund  of  common 
sense  and  a  determination  not  to  be  sidetracked  by  passing 
fads  are  necessary  in  order  to  make  a  wise  selection. 


52 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Characteristics  of  good  pattern 

The  motifs  employed  for  patterns  are  of  two  kinds:  (1)  ab- 
stract or  geometric  forms  which  are  simply  harmonious  shapes 
so  repeated  as  to  make  a  pleasing  pattern;  for  example,  the 
Greek  key  pattern;  (2)  concrete  or  nature  forms  ^'convention- 
alized/' or  adapted  to  their  use  as  pattern;  for  example,  the 
French  fleur-de-lis. 

The  distinction  of  a  design  depends  not  on  the  origin  of  the 
motif,  but  on  its  decorative  treatment  and  color.  The  effective- 
ness of  a  pattern  as  an  element  in  house  furnishing  depends 
on  its  adaptability  in  color  and  design  to  the  service  it  is  to 
render  in  the  room  for  which  it  is  selected.  A  fabric  with  less 
intrinsic  merit  than  another  in  pattern  and  color  may  be  the 
better  choice  in  some  instances,  by  reason  of  its  happier  rela- 
tion to  the  other  furnishings  in  the  room.  By  far  the  greater 
number  of  motifs  are  taken  from  nature.  Any  nature  motif  j 
must  be  conventionalized,  or  adapted  to  its  use  as  pattern,  by 
changing  its  form,  size,  or  color,  and  arranging  it  in  an  orderly 
way,  keeping  in  mind  not  its  origin  from  nature,  but  its  purpose 
as  decoration.  Any  pretense  at  naturalistic  modeling  or  shad- 
ing should  be  very  formal  in  character.  That  it  is  pattern  and 
not  picture  should  never  be  lost  sight  of  in  judging  a  design  for  a 
flat  surface.  Medallions,  scrolls  without  beginning  or  end, 
baskets  of  flowers  or  fruits,  fluttering  ribbons  and  bowknots, 
are  all  absurd  substitutes  for  real  design. 

The  figures  in  a  design  are  parts  of  one  whole  and  should  be 
connected  or  related  in  some  way.  Widely  separated  motifs 
tempt  the  eye  to  jump  from  one  spot  to  another  and  provoke 
one  to  count  rows,  and  mentally  rearrange  the  pattern.  All 
effect  of  restfulness  is  thereby  lost.  Patterns  that  cover  the 
ground  well  are  in  general  better  for  furnishings  than  scattered 
spots.  Some  patterns  that  would  be  objectionable  on  a  flat 
wall,  however,  may  be  used  acceptably  in  drapery,  since  the 
fullness  of  the  folds  rearranges  the  design. 

One  of  the  characteristics  of  a  good  design  is  its  appropriate- 
ness to  the  material  in  which  it  is  developed.   Patterns  may  be 


Plate  IV. — Types  of  rugs  with  suitable  pattern,  developed  in  line  and  in  mass, 
in  self  tones  and  in  contrasting  and  vari-colored  effects. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


53 


woven,  embroidered,  or  printed — stenciled,  stamped,  or  stained 
— on  a  fabric.  The  pattern  may  appropriately  declare  the 
material  in  which  it  is  developed.  Woven  patterns  should  pref- 
erably suggest  warp  and  woof.  The  design  in  a  rag  carpet, 
for  example,  naturally  appears  in  stripes  made  by  the  woof, 
which  is  much  more  prominent  than  the  finer  threads  of  the 
I  warp.  There  is  a  great  variety  of  patterns  appropriate  to  printed 
I  wall  papers  that  may  be  selected  in  preference  to  those  that 
imitate  leather  or  burlap  or  silk  or  oilcloth. 

I  A  pattern  may  be  expressed  in  lines  alone  on  a  background 
!  I  of  another  color,  or  it  may  be  in  masses  or  spots  that  are  lighter 

or  darker  or  different  in  color  from  the  background.    In  such 

patterns  the  shapes  rather  than  the  details  are  important. 

Sometimes  the  pattern  is  of  masses  that  are  broken  up  by  a 

variety  of  detail  and  color. 

I  Pattern  as  used  for  walls  and  floors 

Walls  and  floors  are  fiat  solid  surfaces.    Their  effectiveness 
j  and  comeliness  depend  on  this  structural  fact  and  this  must  be 
il  borne  in  mind  in  the  selection  of  pattern  for  them.   Any  varia- 
I  tion  of  surface  would  impair  the  function  of  wall  or  floor.  Any 
I  suggestion  by  the  pattern  of  such  defects  is  manifestly  out  of 
;  place.    Wall  patterns  of  trellises  and  vines,  of  realistic  flowers 
or  fruit  or  landscape,  of  simulated  columns,  or  of  panels  made 
of  pictured  moldings  should,  therefore,  be  avoided.    For  the 
same  reasons,  realistic  flowers  and  animals  are  out  of  place  in 
pattern.   The  more  realistic  these  motifs  are,  the  poorer  is  the 
design.    Because  the  effect  of  solidity  in  walls  and  floor  must 
!  be  maintained,  the  pattern  should  seem  very  flat. 
I     Since  both  walls  and  floor  are  backgrounds,  the  pattern 
I  should  be  unobtrusive  in  color  and  design.  Fantastic  ornament, 
i  violent  color,  or  strong  contrasts  of  any  sort  are  out  of  place 
I  in  a  background. 

Since  walls  are  upright  surfaces,  stripes,  if  inconspicuous, 
figures  in  which  the  vertical  dominates  or  that  are  so  arranged 
!  as  to  give  an  up-and-down  rather  than  a  crosswise  or  diagonal 
1  movement,  are  good  types  for  wall  pattern. 


54  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING  1 

Floors  are  horizontal  surfaces  that  are  viewed  from  every 
direction.  The  pattern  on  the  floor  should,  therefore,  be  effect- 
ive from  any  angle.  Goemetric  or  very  conventional  patterns 
equally  good  from  every  point  of  view  are  the  best  choice  for 
floor  coverings. 

SELECTION  OF  FURNISHINGS 

Wall  coverings 

A  textile  may  be  used  to  cover  smooth  plastered  walls.  All 
sorts  of  materials  that  give  the  desired  effect,  from  the  cheap- 
est to  the  most  expensive,  have  been  employed  for  this  purpose. 
Canvas,  burlap,  grasscloth,  and  other  weaves  of  pleasing  text- 
ure are  effective  when  appropriately  used.  None  of  these, 
however,  compares  with  paper  in  popularity  as  a  wall  covering. 
Paper  is  comparatively  inexpensive,  is  easily  hung,  is  made  in 
an  immense  variety  of  colorings  and  pattern  and  a  wide  variety 
of  textures.  Wall  paper  has  an  advantage  over  paint  in  that 
the  exact  effect  may  be  known  before  it  is  purchased,  by  ex- 
perimenting with  a  roll  of  it  in  the  very  room  and  light  in  which 
it  is  to  be  used.  If  there  is  cause  for  doubt,  a  plain  paper  should 
be  selected  for  walls.  There  are  many  plain  papers  of  good  color 
from  which  to  choose.  The  oatmeal  textures  probably  offer 
the  most  desirable  and  satisfactory  coloring  among  the  inex- 
pensive papers.  The  silk-fibered  papers,  while  more  expensive, 
compensate  in  color  and  quality  for  the  greater  investment  of 
money. 

Another  safe  choice  in  paper  is  one  nearly  plain  in  effect  but 
the  surface  of  which  is  broken  by  dots  or  dashes  or  splashes  or 
other  slight  variations  that  give  a  little  bloom"  or  vibration 
of  color.  Paper  with  stripes  that  are  not  too  wide  or  of  too 
conspicuous  contrast  are  good,  especially  in  low  rooms.  A 
plain  paper  sometimes  shows  up  too  conspicuously  the  un- 
evenness  in  old  walls.  In  such  a  case  a  paper  with  a  small  con- 
ventional figure,  or  one  with  a  self-toned  foliage  pattern  is 
better.  A  paper  with  a  good  pattern  may  be  very  effective  in 
a  hall  or  corridor  or  a  room  with  few  or  no  pictures  and  plain 
draperies.   It  helps  to  furnish  the  room.   A  large-figured  paper 


HOME  FURNISHING 


55 


in  a  small  room  is  out  of  scale  and  makes  the  room  look 
smaller. 

A  figured  wall-paper  may  be  used  as  a  frieze  in  a  large  room. 
Such  a  frieze  is  generally  more  effective  than  one  of  the  stock 
border  patterns,  and  is  more  easily  adapted  in  width  to  varied 
requirements.  A  figured  frieze  is  often  a  decorative  finish 
above  a  high  paneled  wainscot. 

A  border  of  unobtrusive  pattern  and  color  may  serve  on  oc- 
casion to  define  an  edge  or  emphasize  a  direction.  But  the  idea 
that  every  room  must  have  a  border  because  fashion  so  decrees 
is  absurd  and  unreasonable.  Festoons  of  flowers  and  conspicu- 
ous ornament  of  any  sort  that  tend  to  draw  the  eyes  upward 
unpleasantly  is  out  of  place.  In  rooms  of  ordinary  height, 
borders  should  generally  be  omitted.  They  are  the  offspring  of 
the  traditional  cornice  whose  original  office  was  to  make  the 
division  between  ceiling  and  side  wall.  A  picture-molding 
placed  at  this  intersection  is  an  excellent  finish  in  a  low  room 
or  one  of  ordinary  height.  If  the  room  is  too  high,  the  ceil- 
ing color  may  be  brought  down  on  the  side  wall  and  the 
picture-molding  placed  at  the  intersection  of  ceiling  and  wall 
colors. 

Hangings  for  windows  and  doors  (Figs.  19-23) 
Hangings  are  useful  to  temper  the  light,  to  obstruct  an  un- 
pleasing  view,  to  preserve  privacy,  and  to  furnish  a  decora- 
tive effect.   Door  draperies  are  used  for  the  temporary  separa- 
tion of  rooms  or  for  decorative  effect. 

The  types  of  window  hangings  are  shades,  curtains,  and  val- 
ances. 

The  purpose  of  a  shade  is  to  regulate  fight  and  to  secure 
privacy;  therefore,  a  shade  should  always  be  opaque.  A  glare 
of  color  in  a  room  through  a  shade  of  intense  hue  is  sometimes 
more  trying  than  a  flood  of  sunshine.  Shades,  being  next  to  the 
window,  affect  the  exterior  color  scheme  of  the  house  and  should 
be  chosen  with  this  in  mind.  Shades  need  not  on  that  account 
be  at  variance  with  the  interior  coloring  of  the  house,  for  a 
neutral  tone  may  be  chosen  that  will  not  violate  any  color 


^  4 

Fig.  19. — A  method  of  hanging  two  sets  of  curtains  in  recessed  windows. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


57 


scheme,  or  double-faced  shades  may  be  used.  These  ai-e  only  a 
little  more  expensive  and  may,  if  necessary,  be  colored  to  order. 
In  buying  for  a  permanent  home,  it  is  economy  to  select  shades 
of  a  good  quaUty. 

Shades  should  be  hung  inside  the  trim  as  near  the  glass,  as 
possible  without  interfering  with  the  operation  of  the  window. 
If  this  is  not  possible,  the  shades  should  be  hung  near  the  inner 
edge  of  the  casing  or  window  trim.  Shades  may  be  hung  so  as 
to  pull  up  from  the  bottom  instead  of  down  from  the  top.  There 
are  also  fixtures  which  make  it  possible  to  adjust  the  shade  so 
that  it  may  cover  any  portion  of  the  window  at  any  time.  These 
adjustable  shades  are  particularly  desirable  for  schoolroom  win- 
dows exposed  to  direct  sunlight  for  a  large  part  of  the  day, 
for  kitchen  windows  on  the  south  side  of  the  house,  and  for 
windows  in  any  sunny  workroom. 

Besides  shades  and  blinds  that  shut  out  the  Hght,  the  windows 
of  most  rooms  need  draperies  to  soften  the  hard  fines  of  glass 
and  wood,  to  temper  the  fight,  to  veil  a  view,  to  complete  the 
background  of  the  room,  and  to  add  a  decorative  note  in  color 
or  pattern. 

Each  room  presents  an  individual  problem  in  curtains. 
Harmony,  simplicity,  and  suitabifity  are  the  guiding  thoughts 
in  the  solution.  Taste  is  more  effective  than  money.  With  the 
modern  ideas  of  the  home  as  a  place  in  which  lives  are  to  be 
lived,  of  rooms  rationally  furnished  for  everyday  use,  windows 
swathed  in  festoons  of  draperies,  sweeping  the  floor,  harboring 
dust,  inviting  germs,  and  excluding  the  air,  have  no  place.  The 
much  trimmed,  festooned  and  lambrequined  draperies  are  not 
now  much  in  use;  their  return  should  never  be  allowed.  How- 
ever rich  the  material  used  for  draperies  may  be,  they  should 
be  simply  made  and  so  hung  as  to  fall  in  straight  folds.  In  a 
case  of  doubt,  the  simplest  solution  of  the  problem  of  window 
draperies  should  be  accepted. 

The  choice  in  material  ranges  from  filmy  nets,  transparent 
gauzes,  scrim,  and  musfin  through  soft  silk  and  cotton  fabrics, 
linens  and  coarse  canvas  weaves,  brocades,  damask,  and  tapes- 
try, velvets  and  velours;  in  color  and  design  from  one  un- 


A 


B 


Fig.  20. — Four  methods  of  curtaining  a  double-hung  window:  A,  straight 
curtains  hung  within  the  window  trim.  B,  a  half,  or  sash,  curtain 
often  used  for  privacy.  C,  an  inconsistent  way  of  hanging  drapery, 
which  could  be  remedied  by  raising  the  rod,  and  extending  it  to  the 
length  of  the  top  molding.  D,  a  method  of  hanging  curtains  to  cover 
an  ugly  trim  or  to  widen  the  window  in  effect. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


59 


broken  neutral  tone  to  the  most  complex  variation  of  hues 
and  patterns;  in  price  from  a  few  cents  to  many  dollars  a  yard. 
Any  fabric  may  be  used,  provided  it  is  suitable.  Effects  in 
design,  color,  texture,  and  pattern  ,  that  harmonize  with  the 
room  and  its  furnishings  are  the  distinguishing  characteristics 
of  the  most  tasteful  selections  of  hangings,  rather  than  rich 
and  costly  materials. 

Scrim,  colored  chintzes,  cretonnes  or  any  other  dainty  wash- 
able material  is  appropriate  for  a  bedroom.  Bright  or  gaily- 
figured  hangings  may  be  used  in  rooms  devoted  to  good  cheer 
and  occupied  for  only  short  periods,  such  as  a  dining-room  or  a 
porch  sitting-room.  Patterns  and  colors  that  are  entertaining 
in  a  tea-room  might  be  unbearable  in  a  living-room.  For 
rooms  in  constant  use,  or  for  rooms  that  should  be  reposeful 
in  their  influence,  such  as  a  library,  a  living-room,  or  a  study, 
near-neutral  colors  and  unobtrusive  patterns  are  essential. 

A  city  dwelKng,  close  to  the  street  and  overshadowed  by  other 
buildings,  a  country  house  situated  on  a  hilltop,  or  in  a  valley, 
or  by  the  sea,  or  in  a  setting  of  open  fields  or  gardens  sur- 
rounded by  trees  and  shrubbery,  present  different  problems 
in  window  treatment.  Velvets,  damasks,  and  handsome  linen 
are  appropriate  for  the  city  house,  and  the  greater  formality 
and  reserve  which  are  its  natural  characteristics.  An  effect 
of  freshness  is  in  keeping  with  the  environment  of  the  country 
home.  Cretonnes,  chintzes,  and  printed  linen  with  brighter 
coloring  than  would  be  appropriate  in  the  city  home,  are  in 
harmony  with  the  birds  and  flowers  and  outdoor  country. 
Simple  curtains  of  unbleached  cotton  for  the  small-paned 
cottage  window  with  its  ledge  of  flowering  plants  suggest  the 
charm  of  the  little  house  across  the  sea.  For  the  house  used 
only  in  summer,  curtains  should  of  course  be  of  washable 
materials. 

The  lighting  of  the  room  is  an  important  consideration  in 
selection  of  window  draperies.  If  the  room  is  poorly  lighted, 
thin  draperies  light  in  value,  tending  toward  yellow — the  most 
luminous  color — will  be  the  most  effective  choice,  provided  it  is 
consistent  with  the  color  of  the  walls.   If  the  room  is  too  light 


HOME  FURNISHING 


61 


and  sunny,  darker  and  cooler  colors  and  heavier  fabrics  should 
be  used.  Curtain  material  should  never  be  chosen  without 
hanging  a  large  sample  in  the  window  of  the  room  in  which  it 
is  to  be  used,  because  the  color  effect  is  frequently  quite  dif- 
ferent under  transmitted  light.  Material  with  a  black  thread 
is  likely  to  look  dull  and  dingy;  a  fabric  woven  with  blue  and 
yellow  threads  becomes  green  when  seen  against  the  light. 
The  effect  of  artificial  light  on  the  draperies  should  also  be 
considered,  since  colors  change  surprisingly  from  their  day- 
time effects. 

Valance  is  the  term  used  for  a  short  drapery  hung  at  the 
top  of  the  window.  It  should  preferably  extend  across  the  en- 
tire curtain  space,  or  in  emergency  cover  only  that  space  be- 
tween the  curtains.  Valances  are  decoratively  useful  in  fur- 
nishing a  continuation  in  color  and  line  between  curtains  that 
hang  too  far  apart,  or  in  emphasizing  the  shape  of  the  window. 
They  may  serve  as  a  decorative  connecting  link  between  the 
outside  curtains  at  a  group  of  windows,  making  it  possible  to 
dispense  with  other  drapery  in  the  group.  Valances  emphasize 
the  horizontal  in  a  room. 

Portieres,  or  door  draperies,  sometimes  serve  in  place  of 
doors  in  the  openings  between  rooms  where  only  a  temporary 
separation  is  required.  They  may  serve  also  to  soften  the 
lines  of  the  trim,  to  cover  an  expanse  of  objectionable  wood  in 
the  doors,  or  to  add  a  decorative  note  of  color  or  pattern. 
There  is  a  wide  variety  of  fabrics  to  choose  from.  Generally 
a  heavy  fabric  hangs  better  and  seems  more  appropriate  in  a 
doorway  than  a  light  one,  and  a  double-faced  material  is  simpler 
to  make  up.  Manifestly,  skeleton  draperies  composed  of  cords 
and  tassels,  strings  of  beads  and  shells,  are  an  absurd  substi- 
tute for  a  useful  drapery.  Door  draperies  may  continue  the 
color  of  the  walls,  or,  like  the  window  drapery,  may  be  of  a 
contrasting  color.  If  the  rooms  connected  by  the  opening 
require  different  color  treatment,  the  portiere  may  be  made 
double.  The  same  considerations  regarding  pattern  that 
guide  the  selection  of  window  hangings  are  apphcable  to  door 
drapery. 


62 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Color  and  pattern. 

Color  is  of  first  importance  in  the  decorative  effect  of  window- 
hangings.  White  curtains  may  be  appropriate  in  a  room  with 
white  woodwork,  white  ceihng,  and  Hght  walls,  for  they  are 
in  such  case  in  harmony  with  the  general  color  scheme,  but 
they  are  not  appropriate  for  rooms  of  darker  color.  Window- 
hangings  should  generally  harmonize  in  hue  with  the  walls  of 
the  room.  If  the  hangings  are  of  exactly  the  same  color  as 
the  side  wall,  the  result  is  likely  to  be  monotonous.  But  if 
the  room  is  small,  the  openings  many,  and  the  other  furnishings 
in  strong  color  contrast  to  the  walls,  a  close  match  in  color 
between  walls  and  draperies  may  produce  a  most  restful  effect. 
If  the  walls  are  plain  and  not  covered  with  pictures  and  other 
objects  that  attract  undue  attention,  the  draperies  may  be 
stronger  in  color  and  more  pronounced  in  pattern,  constituting 
the  strong  decorative  note  in  the  room.  In  general,  provided 
the  colors  are  harmonious  and  the  pattern  not  too  pronounced, 
it  is  safe  to  use  striped  or  figured  draperies  with  plain  walls, 
and  plain  draperies  with  walls  that  have  a  pattern.  Figured 
draperies  may  be  used  effectively  with  striped  wall  covering. 
The  best  designs  for  drapery,  as  for  wall  covering,  are  those 
that  cover  the  ground  and  present  no  violent  contrast  in  color 
or  pattern. 

Window  draperies  may  contribute  largely  to  the  color  effects 
described  in  rooms  of  different  exposure,  or  of  different  locali- 
ties. The  warmth  and  light  contained  in  soft  tones  of  yellow 
and  orange  can  be  counted  on  to  counteract  a  feeling  of  cold 
and  gloom.  Darker  and  cooler  colors  may  be  used  when  there 
is  much  sun  or  heat. 

Texture. 

Texture  affects  the  adaptability  of  the  hangings.  Texture 
is  the  quality  of  material  made  known  to  us  originally,  as  its 
name  signifies,  through  touch,  but  by  experience  is  equally 
recognizable  through  sight.  Words  used  to  describe  textures 
are  accordingly  descriptive  of  feeling,  such  as  rough,  smooth, 
hard,  soft,  velvety,  silky,  crepy,  coarse,  fine,  firm,  loose.  Burlap, 


HOME  FURNISHING 


for  example,  is  rough  and  coarse  compared  with  India  silk. 
1'.    Tightly  woven  linen  is  firm  and  hard  in  effect.    Velvets  and 
li    velours  are  soft.    Burlap,  monk^s  cloth,  canvas,  and  similar 
e    textures  are  appropriate  in  rooms  finished  in  rough  plaster 
It    with  oak  woodwork  and  mission  furniture.    Silk  and  satin  or 
i  mercerized  fabrics  are  more  appropriately  used  with  wood  of 
(  '  such  grain  or  texture  as  mahogany  or  satinwood  or  with  painted 
s  !  wood.    Variations  in  texture  produced  by  different  weaves, 
f  !  patterns,  or  colorings  may  give  even  inexpensive  materials 
s  I   so  distinguished  a  quality  as  to  make  them  appropriate  for 
r  [  use  in  very  dignified  surroundings.    Some  of  the  designs  from 
priceless  tapestries  in  European  museums  have  been  printed 
on  linen  and  may  thus  be  enjoyed  at  moderate  cost. 

Treatment  as  to  number  in  one  window. 

Ordinarily  one  pair  of  curtains  is  sufficient  to  answer  the 
purpose  of  a  window  drapery.  Especially  in  rooms  with  few 
or  very  small  windows,  swathing  with  drapery  should  be  avoided 
since  it  produces  a  stuffy  effect.  Casement  cloth,  many  of 
the  heavy  nets,  and  sunfast  materials,  cretonnes,  chintzes, 
and  printed  linens  are  very  effective  when  used  as  single  hang- 
ings. It  is  sometimes  necessary  to  think  of  curtains  as  screens 
to  shut  out  the  public  or  a  disagreeable  view.  Curtains  may 
be  so  chosen  as  to  perform  this  service  and  yet  admit  light. 
Sash  curtains  hung  across  the  lower  half  of  the  window  are 

i    the  most  natural  answer  to  this  problem.   They  are  often  use- 

!    ful  in  a  bathroom  or  kitchen. 

j  Two  sets  of  curtains  are  sometimes  required  for  practical 
or  decorative  reasons.  For  example,  in  windows  near  a  street, 
one  set  of  curtains  may  shut  out  the  gaze  of  passers-by  while 

I  admitting  the  light,  and  the  other  serve  as  a  screen  in  the  even- 
ing and  a  decorative  note  at  all  times.  In  recessed  windows, 
such  as  are  found  in  brick  or  stone  houses,  or  in  a  bay  window 
or  a  group  of  windows,  thin  curtains  may  be  used  next  the 
glass,  and  heavier  draperies  harmoniously  related  to  the  side 
wall  may  be  hung  on  the  trim  and  drawn  to  shut  off  the  recess 
or  the  whole  window  group  when  desired. 


A  MANUAL 


OF  HOME-MAKING 


HOME  FURNISHING 


65 


If  two  sets  of  curtains  are  used,  one  pair  is  hung  next  the 
glass.  These  are  called  glass,  or  sometimes  sash,  curtains. 
As  the  function  of  these  is  to  cut  out  the  view  but  admit  the 
light,  they  should  be  of  thin  material,  such  as  net,  plain  lace, 
scrim,  gauze,  thin  silk,  mercerized  cotton,  sunfast  fabric,  or 
casement  cloth.  Such  an  inner  curtain  should  be  consistent 
in  texture  with  the  outer  drapery;  for  example,  with  velvet  or 
silk  or  any  rich  material,  net  of  good  quality  or  possibly  mar- 
quisette is  a  good  choice.  With  linen  or  cretonne,  scrim  is 
better.  With  cretonne  or  similar  patterned  hangings,  the 
inner  curtains  should  match  the  ground  in  tone;  white,  if  the 
ground  is  white,  cream  or  ecru  if  the  ground  is  of  that  color; 
otherwise,  one  is  likely  to  look  faded  or  discolored.  In  thin 
materials,  too  coarse  a  mesh  should  be  avoided  on  account 
of  shrinking;  an  even  weave  is  more  easily  made  up  and  hangs 
better.  These  glass  curtains  soften  the  glare  and  are  a  pro- 
tection for  the  heavier  window  draperies.  They  are  always 
in  evidence  on  the  outside  of  a  house  and  should  be  selected 
with  this  in  mind.  If  all  the  glass  curtains  in  the  house  are 
ahke,  or  if  in  the  city  those  in  the  front  of  the  house  are  alike, 
a  pleasing  unity  of  effect  from  the  outside  is  conserved. 

The  over,  or  outer,  pair  of  curtains  which  is  in  more  direct 
relation  with  the  walls  of  the  room  may  be  made  of  any  of  the 
heavy  m^aterials  already  mentioned.  This  over-drapery  may 
be  used  to  regulate  the  light  during  the  day,  and,  by  shutting 
out  the  outside  world,  to  give  an  effect  of  intimacy  at  night. 
At  any  time  it  may  furnish  a  decorative  note  in  the  room. 

Hanging  of  draperies. 

If  the  woodwork  of  the  room  has  been  so  selected  and  finished 
as  to  make  of  it  a  structural  decorative  feature,  it  should  bear 
somewhat  the  same  relation  to  the  draperies  as  a  picture-frame 
to  a  picture,  outlining  and  defining  that  which  is  inclosed.  In 
this  case  the  draperies,  if  there  is  only  one  set,  should  preferably 
be  hung  inside  the  trim;  if  there  are  two  sets,  the  outside  one 
would  probably  need  to  be  hung  on  the  trim,  but  should  be 
kept  as  near  the  inner  edge  as  possible. 


06 


A  MAM'AL  OF  llOM  F.-M  A  K!  XG 


\i\v\u\iX  ly[>i\s  ol"  wiiulow  const  ruction  r(H|uiiv  ditToivnt 
n\cth()(is  of  hani^inii;  drajuM-ios.  ()fton  in  tho  case  of  ready- 
n\a(io  dwolliniiis,  the  wood  is  so  disturbinii;  in  color  or  finish, 
or  [\\c  si/c  and  placing-  of  ihc  various  opcniniis  in  the  room 
arc^  so  unforlunali^  that  il  is  ncHH^ssary  to  cover  tlic  trim  in 
(>rdcr  to  produce  a  i^ood  rc^suU.  If  all  ihc  Avindcnvs  in  the  room 
:ue  of  (he  same  size  and  [\\c  same  kind  and  [placed  on  the  same 
K^\el.  the  [M'ohlem  is  simple. 

If  ihiM-e  are  two  sets  of  ('urtains,  the  prc»blem  is  varied  only 
by  the  sort  o(  tixtures  used.  The  c|uestion  is  more  complex 
^vhen  tlierc^  are  se\eral  \  arieties  of  windows  in  the  room,  with 
dcHMs  requirini;-  drajna-ies  besides.  The  nu\st  important  ov 
dominant  c>pening  should  in  general  indicate  the  treatment. 

(^asement  or  I'rench  windows  that  open  out  are  compliant 
to  the  same  treatment  and  arraniivment  of  draperies  as  double- 
hung  windows.  If  casement  windows  open  in,  only  one  set 
of  curtains  can  be  managed  easil>-.  These  may  be  hung  di- 
rectly on  the  windows,  and  be  contlned  by  rods  with  rings 
at  both  tc^p  and  bott(>m.  If  a  second  set  of  draperies  is  used 
with  such  windows,  the  rod  from  which  they  are  suspended 
must  reach  from  the  (niter  edge  o(  the  trim  or  even  beyond 
this  edge  so  as  to  free  the  curtains  when  the  window  is  opened. 

Praperies  should  always  hang  straight ;  fashion  should  never 
be  allowed  to  be  a  detenuining  tact  or.  A\'hen  curtains  are 
looped  back,  disturbing  lines  at  variance  with  the  structural 
foatuivs  of  the  room  are  produced  and  simplicity  is  lost.  If 
it  is  desirable  to  draw  curtains  back,  the  folds  may  still  hang 
straight. 

Curtains  just  long  enough  to  escape  the  sill  are  appropriate 
in  most  eases  but  if  for  any  reason  they  must  be  hung  to  cover 
the  trim,  they  slunild  cover  sill  and  apron  as  well.  Sometimes 
when  the  design  of  the  window  contains  a  paneled  space  below, 
long  curtains  just  escaping  the  tloor  are  more  consistent  with 
the  type  of  window  than  those  of  sill  length. 

^'alanees  hung  between  curtains  are  appropriate  only  when 
4 hese  curtains  are  not  to  be  drawn:  in  such  cases  they  should 
be  of  the  same  fullness  and  should  hang  in  the  same  sort  of 


07 


A  MAMM.  or  llOMi:  MAKisa 


{o\d^  as  (lu^  ciirlain.  N  nlniuH^s  slioiild  i>r(^l'(M:il)ly  bo  extended 
niToss  (lu*  \vlu>lt^  wiiulmv  niul  shoiilil  linni;-  on  a  so[)ani(e  rod 
in  ordiM-  no!  U>  inUMi'iMt*  with  \\\dc\>c\\Ac\\\  adjnstnitMit  of 
(ln^  t'in-(ains.  I'lu*  x  ahuuH^  nsnall>  han,ii;s  from  (lu^  satno  luai!;h( 
as  (lu^  rnrtani;  lni(  in  tlu»  casc^  of  a  window  with  a  (ransom, 
(lu^  vahuu'i^  ma>  .  if  (ho  const  motion  of  (ho  window  allows, 
hani;-  from  tho  top  of  t  hc^  transom  and  tall  only  far  onoui2;h  (o 
oo\or  oomfor(al>l>-  iW  (op  of  tlu^  onrtains. 

Portion^s  ari^  hnni;-  in  sanu^  ^cMUM'al  way  as  onr(ains; 

som(^(imi^s  on  tlu^  trim  bnt  mor^^  oftiMi  botwiHMi  tho  door  Jambs. 

M (■asuri/uj  ilra pcrii's  for  inndoirs  and  (lo(>rs. 

The  sp-Acc  (o  Ih^  oo\  orod  by  tlu^  drapory  shonld  bo  nioasnrod 
ai'onrati^l\ .  l\\ory  miwsnrcanont  shonld  bi^  takcMi  with  a 
yardsiiok  t"onr-foot  rnK\  A  t apc^-nu\rsuri^  is  liabK^  to  strotoh. 
A  diagram  o(  tho  window  shonld  bo  mado  and  tho  nioasnro- 
nuMUs  indicated  n{H>n  this. 

l.on^th. 

Vhc  s{>aco  that  tlu^  cnrtain  is  to  c'ovor  from  tho  ((^p  of  tho 
heading-  to  tho  Inntom  of  t!\o  hom  whon  tinishod  should  bo 
dotorminc\l.  An  alUnvanoo  of  o  or  (>  inohos  shonld  bo  loft  for 
"crawl"  and  foi-  tlu^  maknii.:;  up  o(  an\'  nnlincnl  t'nrtain  that  is 
to  ha\c^  a  shiiiwi  heading,  a  rnn  I'or  tho  rod.  and  a  2-inch  hom 
at  (ho  b(U(cMn.  If  tho  I'nriains  arc  to  bo  washed  frequently, 
and  es[H\"ially  if  ihe>  are  of  material  with  a  coarse  mesh.  nu>ro 
should  be  alU>wed  t"or  shrinka_u;o.  This  extra  leni:;th  may  bo 
disposed  of  by  making-  three  thicknesses  in  the  hem.  If  sowed 
by  hand,  tlu^  hem  can  bc^  ripped  oasil\-  and  roluMumod  after 
washinix.  If  there  is  no  heading:;,  only  t  inches  need  be  alUnved 
for  making-.  In  es( imai in_i2:  the  c|uantily  of  material,  allowance 
must  be  made  t'or  the  "repeat  *  of  tho  pattern  in  matohinii; 
the  desii:;n.  Sometimes  when  there  is  a  largo  design  and  eon- 
sidorablo  waste,  the  parts  cut  out  can  bo  used  in  tho  valance. 
If  t.ho  pattern  has  a  tigure  ocMispicucnis  in  si/.e  or  shape  or  color, 
the  draper)-  should  be  planned  so  that  this  tigure  con\es  at  tho 
Siuuo  distance  from  the  iop  in  both  curtains  of  one  window  and 


//ow/-;  /'f:/f,::/::/f/\r;  69 

\)r(-S<:ru\ )\-/  '\u  y\\<:  ■.';\\\<\' >■/;  .  j/j  ^\i<;  /oor/j.  '\'\\<;  (\r<)\i  \u  djffrjr- 
important  (ii)m\<\<-A'yy\hi\   m   Ui<:,i.  Mnui\  ',iu<\   <\\\yy\u[[  \\i[\u<-A 

fror/J  i!lf:\i(;-.   ^<>  <  ,V  <■//<:!>   72  Uif:\i<;..      \<>V    '//J /j  <  J  O  7/-, 

of  ;j.7^;/-;j,^^/;  7/jH4j.  T/jj/j^lj  r/j;j.t,f;r-j;;,J  //j;;//        u  /-/j  './<>'><\ 
yhJiUi'^l<:  if  \>'iyy<-Ai\  i/-,/t,ijrf;  [/-./rijjt^  [;/  ^:u1^j/j^^  j',  j/j  t/z/o 

lenj^lhwiHO  arjd  ui'<xVau'^_  i/jt,}j  cu/Uj-j/j,^  j/j  Uj^;  j^jj/-  f/o//j  o/j';  \<-ji'i!iX\i 
of  (hii\)<-j"j. 

Widtii. 

Window  (\rh.\)('Ay  hhould;   l\i(:()n:y\f:h,\\y,    \,<:    Jjffj^j^Jjtjy  7/jdo 

if>  cov^;/'  f;o//jfortabIy  the  whole  vvj/ido7/  <:7f:rj  if  it  K<;ldorri 

neCCHHa/"/  t/,  rjr;  tiUH.     The  Widffj  of  Uj^;  7/l'jOJf:  [JiJ--.  ffOr/J 

OmMijj'rd  t.O  O/J^^-Fialf  i\u^H\m',<:  y<>  \><;  <•< >-!<-A<-A    ;j/;^;0/^ij/j^'.  t/,  Ojf: 

thickri^HH  of  the  UiiiX<:nh.\,  fijr/jj-.ljert  an  agre/^aiJ^;  i  uJJ/j^-, .  ■,. 
When  the  ciirtainw  ar^,  f^ur^,'/  d^^;orative,  a«  :-/;//j^:t,j//jr::..  Ojr^ 
ca«fj  with  tfj^:  oijt/:/'  dr;;,[;^./-7;  or  7/hen  only  o/j^-,  j';;;,jr  j  ■.  ij  ^/J 
with  a  v'dUxncj:  i;j  a  j/roijjj  of  7/jrjdowH,  U^hh  fiiJJ/jf;,-,;:  //iay  [/o 

Jj'rjjrjfj;. 

If  tfi^i  cjirVdiiiH  anj  to  Wat-d,  alJo7/arjo^;  hfioijld  mh/ic, 
for  the  h(^in|<  at  the  top  and,  ordinarily,  for  2  j/j  to  Jx* 
turnrj^J  up  at  th^i  bottorrj,  tfjat  ih,  a-;  rrjU'':l'j  for  j'/j^j.kj/j;'  a-.  In 
the  unlifjf-d  (mrUnti. 

Jf  tfjo  oijrtainw  are  to  fxi  Un'mUf'/i  vvitfj  a  ^jr/jp  or  ]nti'ii<:,  j 
inch  JH  ('ji(m%h  to  allow  for  snakln^^  mm*,  in  tfjin  ca.o  tho  lirjirj^ 
should  fionie  lumrly  to  the  <ri^ij^<j. 

I'or  the  lining,  the  «an<e  length  should  Ixj  allow^:  i      for  Oj^-. 
euHain,  minim  the  width  of  the  hea/iing.    If  tf 
heavy,  more  miM  Ikj  allowe/i  for  the  lining,  «inc^  . 
in  likely  <xj  «ag.    If  the  outride  m  er>rwiifierably  heavier  than 
the  lining,  or  if  there  in  a  differ       '  'v  '       of  Oj^t  two 

iriat<jrial«,  the  curtains  should  ^  >  j  i 

allowod  to  harj{(  for  1 7/0  or  thr^ '  ,    .  l  ifty- 


i 


TO  .1  MWi'M.  ()/•'  IHKMI-:  .u.i/v/.V(;  I 

mi'li  siiiriMi  siiUnMi^  (ov  Imin.L:;  curlnms  is  io  \>c  t'outul  in  (ho 
uplu>ls(oi  \  (li^[>:ir(  iiUMils. 

Tlu^  i>nlinnr\-  \  nlaiu'r  of  iM-iMoinu*  or  thin  niatiM-i:il  is  ^nt IumhmI 
ov  pl;iUi\l  ;nul  in;ulr  willi  ;i  lu^ulini;-.  Such  \  :ilaiu'i^s  v:ir>-  from 
I'J  (o  IS  iiu'h^\s  in  NiMiu'al  KMii:;ih.  an'ordiiii;'  lo  (ho  si/.o  of  (ho 
NN  Uulow  aiul  (h(^  i>  [H^  roi>iu.  N\  hrlhiM'  a  boih'OiHii  or  a  hviiiii;- 
ri>om.  l\>r  sh(M  (  rasnuiMU  wiiuU>ws  cu-  for  a  bc\h\H>in,  a  vahuu'O 
iu>t  move  lhan  S  iiu'hos  n\  ido  is  son\(Minu\s  \  or\  (MT(\'n\  i\  Tho 
wulth  of  [he  wiiuUnv  spai'o  tc>  bc^  iH>\ori\l  phis  \vo\u  oiu^-tliirii 
[o  (Mu^  hah"  Us  wuhh  sh(>uKl  aUcnv  suthuaoni  fuUnoss  for  tho 
\  alau("o.  If  I  ho  N  alaui-o  is  [o  bo  phiiloch  iho  loni:;ih  ni\'c\ssary 
iov  c:\v\\  shoiiKl  bi^  miihi[ihod  by  lunnbor  (>f  phu(s 

and  aihloil  \o  (ho  loiiL'jh  of  (ho  roih  [>his  'J  mohos  f(>r  niakiuii;. 
I'or  (ho  hoadinj';.  (o  [\\c  KMiL:,(h  oi  (ho  (inishod  \ahinoi^  should 
bo  addod  (ho  saino  aUowanoo  as  for  our(ains.  1  inohos  ("or  (l\o 
hoadiiii;  and  run  a(   (ho  P  •>  luc'hos  for  (ho  horn  a(  tho 

bo((on\.  I'or  a  i:a(hcM\\l  \alanoo  m  a  Nvind^nv  '<>  t'oo(  wido, 
cMio  \\  id(h  of  o"J-inoh  ina(orial  n\  iH  allo>\  siithoion(  fuUnoss. 
Vov  a  (hi(.  \  alanoi\  (ho  \  or(ioal  NN  id(h  of  (ho  \  alanoo  is  inoasurod 
a(  (ho  \vidos(  par(.  and  '2  inohos  addc\i  for  inakmL:;.  I'or  (ho 
hori.-on(al  lon^(h  o\  suoh  a  \  ahuu'o.  (ho  width  of  (ho  wiiuknv 
spaoo  (o  bo  oo\'orod  is  inoasurod.  or.  in  (ho  oaso  of  a  our\-od 
rod.  (ho  loni:;(h  o(  (ho  rod.  and  "J  inohos  addod  ("or  inakiuii". 
If  (horo  aro  phius  or  pi[>os  in  suoh  a  \alanoo.  (ho  annnini  ro- 
qiiirod  for  c\ioh  ono  nuis(  bo  oalouhuod.  and  (his  addc\l  io  (ho 
lonL:(h  of  (ho  \  alanoo. 

Tordoros. 

1\m-  pordoros  huiiL:;  from  a  pc>lo  b>-  rin^s,  (ho  spaoo  to  bo 
oovorod  b>'  (ho  haui^iui:;  tinishod  is  (ha(  from  (ho  bo(tom  of  tho 
polo  to  withm  "J  inohos  of  tho  door.  Idus  s[>aoo  is  roquirod  in 
tho  intorost  both  of  oloanhiu^ss  and  appoaranoo.  l\"'r  [>onioros 
\\\{\\  a  run  for  tho  rod.  with  ov  without  hoadin^:.  aUowanoo 
must  bo  mado  as  for  ourtains.  l\M-tioros  oft  on  roquiro  hninii", 
in  whioh  oaso  i>  iiu'lios  m  addition  to  tho  loui^th  whon  tlnisluxi 


71 


!;if^rj^:  -,  t,|'j;j.t,    ar^:   u /-/J    io/-  porl.J(;rf;  :  a/f;  }jf;;j,v;/  t/;rjrj  f.o 

Curt.?j,jrj:^. 

rrjat/;}jirjr/  of  fj?/urf;-:  t/;       r;rjrj:j'rJf-,rf-/J . 

ch(:h.\)  \jnnl(-/l  t.ljj-,  j  -;  /jr^?,  ]';r;j/;t,jr;;j.bJr:.  [,ut,  •,ur;}j  r;u/t,;j,jrj  . 

an^  \\k(:\y  t.o  }j;j.rjr.^_  ahk^:'//  ;j,ft,';r  lli'-//  Ij^j.vo  L^^-jj  l;j,ijrjdo/'^-/j. 
In  rrjjj.kirjr^-  r;urt ;j,irj:-^  a  Jarr//;  t.afjf:  Ujat  orj^:  f;arj  v/^xlk 

UrjJin^d  r/jay         fj/ii  at.  Uj^:  t/^p  V/Jt  fj  a  [jr:r/j  r,r  r;;;,  j'/jr/  fr,r 

tho  rod.  v/jtij  a  [jf-.adirjr/;  a/jd  a  rurj  for  t,}jr:  rod  hoJov/  Ojo 
hcrrj,  ^'jy  v,'it,[j  a  horrj  arjd  /jrj^^-.  :-/-.7/f:d  orj  to  tho  ^-/jr//-,  of  t.[jf:  f:\n- 
ialn  <)V  7,'it,}j  rj/jrj;:-':  Hov/od  o/j  t/^  t.ho  Jj/jo  of  y\\<;  \i<-Af\  :0  t.j-jat.  tdjoy 
an:  jVj vj:-j"hJo.  jjrt.airj-;  t.j-jat,  aro  fju/jr/  o/j  /irjr.'-:  ar^:  r/jorf-,  oahily 
rnovod  ha'':k  arjd  fortdj ;  hijt.  jf  t,[jf;  r;urt,aj/j:-,  h<;<:<\  fro^juo/jt,  Jaurj- 
d^;rjrjrf.  tijr;  nuu;'-  i(>'^iy  i^o  t,rrju}Jr;:-/jr/jr;. 

'J'v/i^;o  t.hr;  djarrjot/;r  of  tdjr^  /r/J,  r^r  rrjoro.  hfjOuJd  L^;  aJJov/od 
for  t,ho  v/idrfj  of  tijf:  ru/j  or  ^-a-jrj;/.  to  provido  for  ;-:}jrjrjki/Ji(  a/jd 
thfj  f:a:-y  adjij::tj/jorjt,  r^f  t.fjo  r;ijrt.airj:-;. 

^J'hin  r;urt.airj    aro  bot.t.or  f/at,[jor^,d  or  ;-Jjjrr^:d. 

ArrjfjJo  v/j'dt.fj  for  a  j/j  Jjr/jp  r/jat,orjaJ  i  -;  J  j/^  irj^;h(j«; 

j'f  t.hf:  [jr;adj/jf:f  i::  v/j'dor.  t.fjr;  fr J<j::  Jr^jj  (j-/(:r  In  hj\  ijrjtj'dy  7/ay. 
Tv/o  jrjr;J'jo:-.  i:-:  /jOt,  t//;  v/jdo  a  fjoadi/jf/  jf  t.ljr^  r;urt,ajri'-,  aro  of  a  fin/j 
irjat/rrial  tijat,  --:tarjd-;  uf;  v/olJ. 

f'or  fijJJ  Jorj^rh  fMjrt airj  -  for  Jar^/o  v/jrjdow»,  3  inol-j^:  i  -i  ^^ood 
v/idtfj  frjf  t.j-jc-  \i(-jfi  at,  t  .^  ^    //  •  ^'.'j.    ]•>;/•  r^daHH  ''rurt airj-,  o/'  ^urt.ajrjH 

4jirj  rrjatorial;  2  ' ,^•jo/Jt.    d  ijo  fjor/j  r/jav  \/:  turnod 

i.')  J'\  fulJ  7/jrJt,h,  rfjij,  //j.x/^J/.ff,  t.[jr^:0  t.hir;krjo-;-:f:--:  of  r/jat.onaJ. 
hi  r;a~f;  tfjj-  r/j-,'o'-:  firmrjOHH  arjd  v/^J^^I-jr  tfj^^r  r/jako-:  t[jo  '';ijr- 
t,ajrj  fjaijr/  v/f;!J,  arjd  irj  t.fjf:  r;aho  of  '  jrrj j--;hoh 

ari  opportjjrjjt.y  t.o  ooijrjt/;ract.  t.hf;  o:.        ;.     ....   .^/;.  ffo-r/j- 


72  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKIXG 

stitching  or  fagoting  is  an  excellent  finish  for  scrim  or  marquis-- 
ette,  and  it  gives  a  touch  of  distinction  to  the  curtain. 

Curtains  of  chintz  and  some  other  materials  may  be  turned 
up  on  the  right  side,  and  an  edge  of  gimp  or  a  narrow  fringe 
ma}^  be  sewed  on.  Attractive  edgings  for  chintz  are  obtainable, 
and  when  chintz  curtains  are  used  in  living  or  other  family 
rooms,  these  gimps  make  an  effective  finish.  In  this  case,  the 
width  of  the  gimp  is  enough  to  allow  at  the  bottom  for  making. 
In  general,  the  hemstitching  or  other  finish  of  a  curtain  begins 
at  the  top  of  the  inside  of  the  curtain  and  continues  across  the 
lower  edge.  There  is  no  reason  why  it  should  not  be  continued 
up  the  outside  edge,  thus  making  the  edges  reversible. 

Lined  curtains. 

Many  materials  used  for  the  outer  window  drapery  should  be 
lined,  especially  for  windows  subjected  to  the  heat  and  glare  of 
the  sun.  Lining  is  often  desirable  even  when  there  are  glass 
curtains,  both  for  the  protection  of  the  material,  if  this  is  expen- 
sive or  likely  to  fade,  and  for  the  effect  in  the  room.  Some  fab- 
rics are  much  more  effective  when  lined;  others  are  much  hand- 
somer unlined.  The  pattern  in  cretonne,  for  example,  comes  out 
much  better  when  there  is  no  lining,  while  in  printed  linens 
the  pattern  is  often  almost  obliterated  and  the  ground  looks 
dense  and  dull  if  made  up  without  a  lining. 

If  the  curtain  to  be  lined  has  a  heading,  this  should  generally 
be  made  by  turning  over  the  outside  material  at  the  top,  es- 
peciall}^  if  the  heading  is  likel}^  to  fall  over,  or  is  of  plaits  which 
are  intended  to  turn  over. 

When  curtains  are  to  be  lined,  the}^  should  be  placed  face 
down  on  the  table.  After  cutting  off  the  selvage,  which  is 
otherwise  likel}^  to  draw,  the  edges  are  turned  in  and  basted 
down.  The  lining  should  be  basted  on  to  the  outside  first  at 
the  top,  then  across  the  curtain  at  frequent  intervals  throughout 
the  length  of  the  curtain.  The  edges  of  the  lining  are  then 
turned  in  and  basted  to  the  outside,  letting  the  edge  of  the  lining 
come  to  about  Yio  ii^^'h  from  the  edge  of  the  outside.  The 
curtain  is  finished  at  the  top,  and  if  it  is  of  heavy  material, 


HOME  FURNISHING 


73 


allowed  to  hang  for  three  weeks  or  more  before  finishing  either 
the  sides  or  the  bottom. 

j  Valances. 

The  ordinary  valance  of  cretonne  or  thin  material  is  gathered 
or  plaited  and  made  with  a  heading.  Gathered  valances  are 
made  in  the  same  way  as  gathered  curtains.  For  plaited  val- 
ances, the  box  plait  is  generally  used.  The  plaits  may  be  very 
near  together  or  at  some  distance  apart.  The  width  of  plaits 
and  spaces  must  be  carefully  estimated,  and  if  the  plaits  are  a 
wide  distance  apart,  this  spacing  must  be  determined  with 
great  accuracy.  In  figured  material,  the  figure  often  indicates 
the  best  spacing.  The  plaits  may  be  taken  up  like  a  tuck, 
basted  carefully,  pressed  to  produce  the  boxplait,  the  basting 
ripped  out,  and  the  valance  allowed  to  hang  free  from  the  rod. 
The  casing  for  the  rod  is  stitched  to  the  back  at  the  base  of  the 
heading.  The  casing  should  be  so  wide  that  the  outline  of  the 
rod  is  not  visible  on  the  right  side;  or  a  flat  tape  may  be  sewed 
on  at  the  base  of  the  heading  and  hooks  attached  to  this. 
Plaited  valances  are  more  formal  and  finished  in  appearance 
than  gathered  or  shirred  valances.  They  should  be  measured 
accurately,  sewed  firmly,  pressed  well,  and  hung  straight. 

The  shaped  valance  made  over  buckram  and  with  interlining 
is  suitable  for  the  richest  material,  such  as  velvet,  velour,  or 
damask,  and  for  the  most  stately  rooms.  When  such  materials 
are  used,  a  professional  can  generally  be  employed  to  make  them 
up;  therefore,  only  the  simplest  type  of  flat  valance  will  be  de- 
scribed here.  A  simple  shape  should  be  chosen  with  few  or  no 
curves.  A  pattern  is  cut  from  heavy  paper  and  fitted  carefully 
to  the  window  over  the  rod  or  other  fixture  to  which  it  is  to  be 
fastened.  The  heavy  cotton  or  canvas  lining  is  then  cut.  Can- 
vas is  better  than  buckram,  because  the  latter  is  likely  to  crack 
or  become  limp  in  damp  weather.  The  canvas  form  is  laid  on 
the  table  and  the  lining  basted  carefully  on  it,  a  little  tighter 
from  left  to  right  than  the  canvas,  if  the  valance  is  to  go  on  a 
curved  rod.  The  lining  is  laid  on  the  goods  on  a  table.  If  the 
fabric  is  figured,  the  pattern  should  be  studied  carefully,  to  be 


74 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


sure  that  the  figures  come  in  the  right  place.   The  goods  should  I 
be  cut  1  inch  larger  all  around  than  the  lining.    In  basting  I 
the  outside  to  the  stiffened  lining,  it  should  be  as  much  looser 
than  the  canvas  as  the  lining  is  tighter,  in  order  that  the  valance 
may  fit  well  around  the  curve  of  the  rod. 

Such  a  valance  may  be  finished  by  a  gimp  or  cord  or  other  , 
slight  finish.  It  may  be  hung  from  a  %-inch  board  fastened  to  jj 
the  top  of  the  trim,  and  projecting  3  or  4  inches  from  the  wall.  J 
The  shaped  valance  is  seldom  required  for  home-made  curtains. . 

Portier.es. 

Draperies  for  doors  are  made  in  the  same  general  way  as  i 
those  for  windows.  They  are  often  of  heavy  material  and  are  f 
sometimes  lined.  The  purpose  of  the  lining  is  often  to  furnish 
a  contrasting  hanging  for  the  room  on  the  other  side.  When  the 
rod  is  fastened  to  the  door  jamb  as  high  as  possible,  the  run  for 
the  hanging  may  conveniently  be  made  at  the  top.  If  a  heading 
is  desired,  the  rod  should  be  placed  lower.  When  portieres  are 
hung  on  the  outside  of  the  trim,  a  heading  may  be  used  or 
not. 

Portieres  may  be  hung  by  rings,  or  by  hooks.  A  French 
heading,  with  French  hooks,  may  be  used  on  a  portiere  that  is 
to  be  hung  on  the  trim.  The  French  heading  is  made  by  taking 
up  three  tucks  or  plaits  which  may  be  inch  in  depth,  or  more 
if  the  material  is  heavy.  The  plaits  should  be  stitched  across 
2^2  or  3  inches  from  the  top.  The  French  hook  is  attached  at 
the  bottom  of  the  heading.  The  hook  then  fastens  into  the  ring 
which  fits  the  rod. 

Floor  coverings 

Only  modern  rugs  of  domestic  or  foreign  manufacture  will 
be  considered  here,  as  the  choice  Oriental  rugs  are  not  within 
the  compass  of  the  average  purse  and  the  ability  to  select  these 
wisely  is  acquired  only  by  long  study  and  experience. 

The  functions  of  either  a  carpet  or  rug  are  to  protect  the  floor, 
to  obviate  noise,  to  give  warmth  in  both  fact  and  effect,  and  to 
add  a  decorative  note  to  the  room.  To  protect  the  floor  in 
much-used  rooms,  rugs  should  cover  the  larger  part  of  the  floor. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


75 


If  a  number  of  small  rugs  are  used,  they  should  be  placed  where 
the  wear  is  greatest — on  lines  of  travel,  before  a  fireplace,  a 

I lounge,  a  bed,  or  a  dresser.  The  term  carpet  will.be  used  in 
this  connection  to  designate  a  fabric  that  covers  the  floor  com- 
pletely; the  term  rug,  for  a  fabric  not  completely  covering  the 
floor. 

Carpets. 

Carpets  are  not  so  popular  at  the  present  time  as  rugs;  but 
with  the  home-maker,  fashion  should  not  enter  into  the  con- 
sideration. A  carpet  with  small  figures  or  none,  covering  the 
entire  floor,  tends  to  make  a  room  look  larger,  and  to  unify  the 
color  scheme;  it  contributes  to  the  warmth  and  quiet  of  a  room, 
and  in  an  old  or  cold  house  may  serve  to  offset  a  poor  floor. 
A  perfectly  plain  carpet  usually  called  filling^'  may  be  ob- 
tained in  ingrain  and  other  weaves  to  cover  the  entire  floor  and 
serve  as  a  background  foi  rugs.  With  a  vacuum  cleaner  it 
should  be  entirely  possible  to  use  carpets  and  be  hygienic. 

Rugs. 

Rugs  serve  all  the  purposes  of  a  carpet  and  are  in  general 
much  more  easily  cared  for  and  more  adaptable  decoratively. 
Even  a  large  rug,  when  rolled  on  a  pole,  can  be  easily  moved  in 
and  out  for  cleaning.  For  temporary  homes,  rugs  are  a  wiser 
investment  than  carpets  because  they  are  more  easily  adjusted 
to  different  floor  spaces. 

Color,  as  in  other  furnishings,  is  the  first  point  to  consider 
in  the  selection  of  a  rug.  The  rug  preferably  should  be  of 
about  the  same  value  as  the  floor,  so  that  it  may  tone  with  it, 
making  no  severe  or  obtrusive  contrast,  ilk  the  case  of  a  floor 
that  is  too  light  but  that  may  not  be  darkened,  the  lesser  of 
two  evils  is  to  compromise  by  choosing  a  rug  considerably 
darker  than  the  floor.  The  floor  is  the  base  of  the  room,  the 
foundation  on  which  the  furniture  rests,  the  background 
against  which  it  is  seen.  Colors  relatively  dark  contribute  to 
an  effect  of  solidity.  1-4  must  be  continually  repeated  that  neu- 
tral effects  serve  best  as  backgrounds.   The  safest  coloring  per- 


76  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING  1 

haps  is  the  one  similar  or  analogous  to  the  prevailing  color  of  the 
walls;  but  a  complementary  or  contrasting  color,  if  sufficiently 
neutralized  and  if  repeated  elsewhere  in  the  room,  may  be  used 
with  excellent  effect.  A  plain  rug  with  a  self-toned  border  is  in 
general  a  good  choice. 

If  the  rug  is  to  be  subjected  to  very  hard  wear,  a  pattern  will 
make  the  wear  less  evident.  A  rug  with  an  unobtrusive  pattern, 
preferably  with  small  geometric  figures  that  ^^read"  from  every 
direction,  or  a  very  conventional  nature  motif  with  no  strong 
contrasts  in  value,  is  likely  to  keep  its  place  as  a  background 
better  than  a  rug  with  large  pattern,  medallions,  or  intricate 
ostentatious  border.  Such  rugs  assert  themselves  at  the  ex- 
pense of  the  other  furnishings  and  tend  to  make  the  room  seem 
crowded.  Realistic  flowers  or  animals,  trees  or  houses,  are  out 
of  place  in  pattern. 

The  best  size  and  proportion  for  rugs  is  determined  by  the 
room  and  its  furnishings.  In  the  average  room,  a  relatively 
large  rug  proportioned  to  the  size  and  shape  of  the  room  is  a 
satisfactory  choice.  Between  two  and  three  feet,  or  in  a  very 
large  room  even  a  wider  margin,  of  bare  floor  may  be  left  on 
each  edge;  the  rug  thus  answers  every  purpose  of  a  rug,  clears 
the  furniture,  and  is  easily  cared  for.  The  size,  number,  and 
placing  of  rugs  should  be  studied  in  relation  to  the  other  fur- 
nishings of  the  room,  since  they  play  an  important  part  in  the 
whole  design. 

There  is  a  wide  variety  of  textures  and  weaves  on  the  market. 
It  is  impossible  to  suggest  with  any  definiteness,  the  weave  or 
manufacture  to  buy.  The  texture  or  quality  should  above  all 
be  appropriate  to  the  room  in  which  it  is  to  be  used;  a  rag  rug 
may  be  the  best  choice  for  a  bedroom  or  even  for  a  living-room 
in  a  simply  furnished  country  house.  Heavy  Wilton  or  Ax- 
minsters  or  velvets  with  deep  pile  are  too  suggestive  of  luxury 
to  be  used  in  modern  simple  homes.  Since  rugs  are  always  to 
be  walked  upon,  they  should  above  all  be  durable.  A  reliable 
dealer  who  handles  standard  makes  of  rugs  should  be  selected, 
and  his  judgment  trusted  as  to  the  wearing  quahties  of  his 
goods. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


77 


Linoleum. 

For  hard  and  continuous  wear,  such  as  on  the  floors  of  kitch- 
ens, passages,  and  dining-rooms,  on  farms  or  for  large  famihes, 
linoleum  makes  a  very  satisfactory  covering.  A  good  quality 
of  linoleum  is  about  as  durable  as  wood.  Its  pliability,  elastic- 
ity, and  quietness  especially  recommend  it  for  rooms  in  which 
there  is  much  walking  or  standing.  Since  it  comes  in  wide 
lengths,  a  linoleum  floor  has  practicafly  no  seams  or  joints  to 
catch  the  dirt  and  can,  therefore,  be  considered  a  very  sanitary 
material.  Battleship  linoleum,  plain  brown  in  color,  often 
tones  in  acceptably  with  woodwork  and  furniture.  A  few  other 
good  plain  colors  are  procurable.  For  the  kitchen,  a  modest 
inlaid  or  a  granite  pattern  is  by  many  considered  more  cleanly 
in  appearance.  A  similar  choice  of  pattern  in  light  colors  is 
also  appropriate  for  bathrooms. 

A  good  grade  of  linoleum  is  not  cheap,  but  its  lasting  qualities 
repay  the  initial  expense.  Cheap  grades  are  not  in  the  long  run 
a  good  investment. 

A  linoleum  floor  should  be  laid  by  the  firm  from  whom  it  is 
purchased.  The  inconvenience  attendant  on  the  proper  laying 
of  a  linoleum  floor  must  be  borne  patiently,  because  it  must  be 
kept  in  the  form  of  loose  pieces  until  it  has  adjusted  itself  to  the 
flatness  of  the  floor,  the  temperature  of  the  room,  and  the  space 
which  it  is  to  fill. 

Since  the  marks  made  by  furniture  show  up  badly  on 
a  new  linoleum,  the  pressure  of  heavy  pieces  should  be  re- 
lieved by  little  blocks  under  the  legs  while  the  linoleum 
is  new;  but  as  the  surface  becomes  harder  through  care 
and  exposure,  it  will  be  found  to  stand  better  the  necessary 
wear. 

Cork  carpet. 

Cork  carpet,  a  floor  covering  similar  to  linoleum  in  wearing 
qualities,  but  with  more  of  a  surface  texture,  can  be  ob- 
tained in  a  number  of  plain  tones.  Like  linoleum  it  can  be 
used  pleasingly  even  in  living-rooms  as  a  background  for 
rugs. 


78 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Wood-veneer  carpet 

A  wood-veneer  carpet  of  inconspicuous  pattern  laid  over  an 
old  floor  is  also  a  very  durable  and  satisfactory  background 
for  rugs.  Japanese  matting  of  fine  weave,  though  light  in  color 
can  be  made  to  take  the  place  of  a  bare  wood  floor  especially 
in  bedrooms  or  rooms  where  white  or  light  painted  wood  is 
used. 

Ingram  filling,  ^ 
Ingrain  filling  or  other  plain  carpets  may  also  be  used  as  a 
background  for  rugs  in  the  absence  of  a  good  wood  floor. 

FURNITURE  (Plates  VI-IX  and  Figs.  24-29). 

Furniture  is  perhaps  the  most  distinctive  of  all  the  movable 
furnishings  of  the  home.  Well-made  furniture  is  very  durable 
and  should,  therefore,  be  selected  with  the  care  which  perma- 
nence calls  for.  Furniture  of  reliable  workmanship  and  made 
from  choice  material  is  rarely  cheap,  but  is  the  best  investment 
in  the  end.  If  the  family  purse  is  limited,  it  is  better  to  buy  at 
the  start  the  few  essential  pieces  and  to  add  to  these  from  time 
to  time.  No  article  of  furniture  should  be  purchased  unless 
a  need  for  it  exists,  and  then  the  one  that  will  best  fill  that  need 
should  be  sought  for  until  it  is  found.  At  the  time  of  purchase, 
each  article  should  be  judged  on  its  intrinsic  merits  and  its 
adaptability  to  the  need  and  place  that  it  is  to  fill. 

The  fundamental  considerations  in  the  selection  of  furniture 
are  three:  the  function  or  use  of  the  article  selected;  its  construc- 
tion and  design;  and  its  relation  to  the  room  and  other  furnish- 
ings. 

Function. 

The  usefulness  of  a  piece  of  furniture  is  paramount  to  every 
other  consideration.  For  example,  a  chair  of  whatever  materials 
constructed,  is  made  to  sit  in.  If  it  does  not  answer  this  use 
comfortably,  it  is  utterly  unworthy  as  a  seat.  In  its  simplest 
form  a  chair  has  a  seat,  legs,  and  back,  but  it  is  often  developed 
into  forms  with  arms,  rungs,  rockers,  and  upholstery  as  well. 


Fig.  24. — A  group  of  typical  side  chairs  of  substantial  and  pleasing  form,  and 
of  varied  finish.  From  these,  selections  might  be  made  for  dining-room, 
living-room,  or  hall. 


80  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Fig.  25. — Four  good  table  forms  for  use  in  dining-room  or  library. 

Even  the  most  elementary  type  should  afford  a  seat  wide  enough 
to  accommodate  the  body  comfortably,  should  have  legs  of  a 
height  that  allow  the  feet  of  the  occupant  to  rest  easily  upon  the 
floor,  and  a  back  that  accords  with  the  curve  of  the  spine.  These 
requirements  would  seem  so  obvious  as  not  to  need  mention, 
were  it  not  so  rare  to  find  them  all  combined  in  one  chair.  Since 
the  adult  members  of  a  single  family  may  vary  greatly  in  height, 


Plate  VI. — Good  types  of  desks  and  sideboards. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


81 


size,  and  proportion,  no  exact  rule  as  to  the  measurements  of 
chairs  can  be  formulated.  In  general,  however,  the  seat  of  an 
ordinary  straight  chair  should  measure  from  15  to  20  inches 
across  the  front  and  may  be  usually  2  or  3  inches  narrower  at 
the  back.  In  height  the  seat  may  be  from  15  to  20  inches  from 
the  floor,  inclining  slightly  backwards.  The  lower  the  seat,  the 
greater  should  be  its  depth;  and  conversely,  the  higher  the 
seat,  the  more  shallow  its  depth.  The  height  of  the  back 
from  the  seat  may  vary  from  12  to  30  inches.  Arms  should  be 
of  a  height  to  support  the  arm  of  the  occupant  comfortably — • 
about  10  inches  usually  from  the  seat.  Rails  or  slats  or  ban- 
nisters in  the  chair-back  should  be  tested  with  reference  to  the 
ribs  and  shoulder-blades  of  the  user.  Rungs  are  usually  added 
for  strength,  but  a  well-made  chair  may  be  quite  adequate  to 
its  purpose  without  them. 

The  varying  purposes  for  which  chairs  are  used  are  another 
element  in  the  decision.  A  sewing  chair,  a  slipper  chair,  and 
a  nursery  rocker  are  preferably  low.  A  short-backed  chair  is 
convenient  for  a  dressing-table  or  for  the  kitchen.  A  chair  for 
lounging  may  be  as  deep  and  high-backed  and  as  luxuriously 
upholstered  as  the  user  fancies.  No  chair  is  good  that  is  not 
comfortable  in  service. 

With  a  table  also,  the  first  thought  of  the  buyer  should  be 
its  use.  A  dining-table,  a  table  for  the  library,  a  sewing-table, 
a  table  for  bedroom,  hall,  or  kitchen,  each  has  a  special  service 
to  render  and  should  be  chosen  with  that  service  in  mind.  Every 
table,  however,  should  be  stable. 

A  bureau,  a  chest,  a  sideboard,  or  any  container  should  be 
thought  of  in  terms  of  the  storage  space  afforded  and  facility  of 
access  to  that  space;  doors  should  open  and  shut  easily;  drawers 
should  run  smoothly. 

Construction  and  design. 

The  first  requirements  in  construction  are  strength  and  du- 
rability. These  are  essential  elements  also  for  efficient  service. 
Good  furniture  must  be  sincerely  built  from  honest  material, 
should  be  designed  for  a  definite  purpose,  and  should  avoid 


82  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Fig.  26. — Types  of  Colonial  chairs,  usually  developed  in  mahogany  or  cherry, 
which  may  be  found  in  good  reproductions.  1,  4  and  6,  Chippendale;  2 
and  3,  Sheraton;  5,  Hepplewhite. 


superfluous  ornament  and  shiny  varnished  finishes.  The  con- 
struction of  furniture  should  be  evident;  that  is,  the  necessary 
upright  and  horizontal  elements  should  not  be  distorted  by 
curves  and  ornament  that  impair  the  function  of  the  members. 
Variations  in  contour,  such  as  low  flowing  curves,  should  accord 
with  the  main  outlines.  Of  all  the  necessary  pieces  of  furniture, 
chairs  and  seats  are  the  freest  in  form  and  may  deviate  farthest 


HOME  FURNISHING 


83 


from  straight-line  design.  Curved  lines  and  rolling  contours 
adjust  themselves  easily  to  the  human  form  and  are  usually 
more  comfortable  than  the  rigid  lines  of  straight  chairs.  This 
does  not  imply,  however,  that  fantastic  shapes  are  justifiable. 

Since  no  piece  of  furniture  is  stronger  than  its  weakest  joint, 
it  is  important  to  observe  that  all  joints  be  strong  and  genuine 
even  though  hidden.  The  legitimate  use  of  screws,  wedges, 
and  glue  has  brought  about  such  sound  and  inconspicuous  join- 
ery that  there  is  no  longer  any  excuse  for  wobbly,  insecure  furni- 
ture. In  general,  the  tendency  of  modern  furniture  design  is 
toward  easily  movable  forms  such  as  metal  beds,  closets  instead 
of  wardrobes,  and  various  types  of  reed  and  willow  furniture. 

The  parts  of  which  furniture  is  composed  should  seem  reason- 
able for  the  function  which  they  are  to  perform.  The  legs  of 
chairs  and  tables  should  not  be  heavy  enough  for  porch  posts 
■  like  those  in  some  pieces  of  mission  furniture,  nor  should  they 
be  frail  and  ladylike'!  as  in  the  case  of  the  little  gilt  parlor 
chair. 

The  woods  most  used  in  modern  furniture  are  ash,  oak,  ma- 
hogany, walnut,  and  other  woods  finished  to  imitate  these, 
also  pine  and  whitewood  for  painted  pieces.  Bird's-eye  maple 
and  curly  birch,  being  sport  growths,  should  not  be  used  as  a 
structural  furniture  wood.  Of  these  woods,  oak  is  heavy,  durable, 
susceptible  to  color  modifications,  easily  kept  in  good  condition, 
of  a  sturdy  character,  appropriate  to  everyday  conditions,  and 
not  too  expensive.  Mahogany  is  durable,  but  needs  much  care, 
is  too  ^'dressy''  in  appearance  for  the  stress  of  modern  daily 
life,  and  is  not  so  adaptable,  except  in  its  browner  tones,  to  usual 
color  schemes.  Contrary  to  the  usual  belief,  there  is  no  intrin- 
sic merit  in  the  fact  that  a  piece  of  modern  furniture  is  called 
mahogany.  Many  of  the  best  looking  pieces  are  only  birch 
stained  red,  or  if  made  of  the  genuine  wood  are  often  less  at- 
tractive than  their  birch  substitutes.  Only  in  antique'  pieces, 
valuable  because  they  are  good  and  not  because  they  are  old, 
and  in  modern  copies  or  adaptations  of  fine  design  and  finish, 
is  the  real  sentiment  and  beauty  of  mahogany  preserved.  In 
general,  oak  is.  the  most  representative  wood  for  modern  furni- 


84 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Fig.  27. — Comfortable  arm-chairs  for  general  use. 

ture,  just  as  black  walnut  was  the  typical  wood  in  our  mothers' 
day  and  mahogany  in  the  day  of  our  grandmothers. 

The  finish  of  all  woods  should  be  soft  and  dull,  rubbed,  not 
varnished.  A  shiny  polish  is  often  used  to  hide  blemishes  in  the 
wood  and  is  of  a  nature  pertaining  more  to  metals  and  to  glass 
than  to  wood. 


Plate  VII. — Types  of  furniture  ugly  in  proportion,  erratic  in  line,  over- 
decorated  in  finish,  that  should  be  avoided. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


85 


There  is  much  good  painted  or  enameled  furniture.  It  lends 
itself  to  charming  and  unusual  color  schemes.  This  finish 
is  especially  appropriate  with  the  light  clean  effects  so  suitable 
in  bedrooms  in  country  homes,  and  in  rooms  with  painted 
trim. 

Willow,  because  of  its  elasticity,  is  an  excellent  material 
for  seats,  but  not  appropriate  for  tables,  desks,  beds  and  other 
furniture  forms  in  which  firmness  and  smoothness  are  essential 
qualities.  Though  not  so  durable  as  wood,  willow  is  light  in 
weight,  has  unlimited  color  possibilities,  and  fits  satisfactorily 
into  many  varying  types  of  furnishings.  The  simple  designs 
are  always  the  best. 

Upholstery. 

Well-disposed  springs  and  padding  add  much  to  the  comfort 
of  a  lounge  or  chair,  and  a  textile  covering  may  contribute  most 
attractive  notes  to  the  color  scheme  of  a  room.  Upholstered 
chairs  with  a  well-built  frame  that  is  frankly  evident,  are  the 
best  choice.  Fat-looking,  dimpled,  padded,  buttoned,  and 
fringed  upholstery  should  be  avoided.  Too  often  it  covers  weak 
construction.  Upholstery  furnishes  a  good  opportunity  to 
amalgamate  the  various  colors  in  a  room,  such  as  the  contrasting 
colors  of  walls  and  hangings,  or  to  emphasize  one  of  these,  or  to 
introduce  new  colors  that  will  enliven  an  otherwise  monotonous 
room,  or  to  distribute  the  color  interests  when  there  is  too  much 
color  massed  on  one  side  of  a  room,  as  sometimes  results  from  a 
series  of  door  and  window  draperies. 

For  ordinary  home  use,  plain,  striped,  or  figured  fabrics  are 
more  appropriate  than  leather,  which  finds  its  best  use  in  offices 
and  men's  lounging  rooms. 

A  slenderly  built  chair  should  not  be  upholstered  in  a  large 
figured,  strong-colored  fabric.  A  chair  or  any  other  furni- 
ture may  be  excellent  in  design  with  no  decoration.  Any 
decoration  should  be  an  integral  part  of  the  whole  design,  an 
outgrowth  of  the  construction,  a  refinement  of  the  propor- 
tions, or  an  emphasis  of  an  essential  element  by  a  bit  of 
enrichment. 


Fig.  28. — Three  good  forms  of  couches.  Top,  a  willow  davenport,  comfortable, 
reasonable  in  price,  and  easily  moved.  Center,  a  type  of  upholstered 
davenport  exceedingly  comfortable  but  likely  to  be  costly.  Bottom,  an 
inexpensive  box-couch  arrangement  that  may  be  made  both  comfortable 
and  attractive  by  the  use  of  good  springs,  upholstery,  and  cushions. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


87 


Fig.  29. — Typical  small  tables  of  good  form  and  finish  from  which  a  suitable 
selection  might  be  made  for  various  types  of  living-room,  bedroom,  or 
porch. 


88 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Relation  to  other  furnishings. 

To  secure  a  homogeneous  result  in  house  furnishing,  the  fit- 
ness of  each  purchase  should  be  thought  of  in  relation  to  the  room 
in  which  it  is  to  go  and  in  relation  to  the  other  furnishings  of 
that  room.  As  has  been  previously  pointed  out,  the  proportion 
of  furniture  has  a  notable  effect  on  the  apparent  proportion  of 
the  room:  very  large  pieces  of  furniture  seem  to  crowd  a  small 
room;  very  small  pieces,  unless  grouped,  appear  dwarfed  in  a 
large  room. 

Furniture  should  be  selected  of  a  material  that  will  harmonize 
with  the  woodwork.  Oak  is  the  best  choice  for  a  room  finished 
in  oak  or  in  the  woods  finished  in  a  color  similar  to  oak,  as  ash, 
chestnut,  or  even  cypress.  The  modern  market  produces  such 
a  wide  range  of  design  in  oak  furniture  of  different  finishes  and 
prices  as  to  make  an  appropriate  choice  for  such  a  room  com- 
paratively simple. 

Mahogany  or  painted  or  willow  furniture  affiliates  better 
than  does  oak  with  painted  woodwork,  especially  if  painted  in 
ivory  or  white  or  light  tones.  Oak  and  mahogany  are  so  at  vari- 
ance in  character  and  texture  that  they  will  not  mix.  Willow 
and  painted  furniture  affording  great  variety  in  form  and  color 
will  fit  well  together. 

Pictures 

Contrary  to  the  usual  belief,  pictures  are  not  indispensable 
in  a  well-furnished  room.  If  the  wall  spaces  are  not  too  large  and 
bare,  if  the  walls  are  paneled  or  have  an  interesting  covering, 
or  if  the  draperies  in  the  room  are  noticeably  decorative  in  color 
or  pattern,  pictures  may  be  superfluous. 

However,  if,  as  often  happens  in  rooms  with  plain  walls,  a 
problem  is  presented  by  large  empty  spaces,  a  wise  use  of  good 
pictures  presents  a  solution.  Such  pictures  being  steady  com- 
panions should  be  selected  for  their  intrinsic  worth  of  subject, 
color,  and  composition.  Good  photographs  in  brown  or  gray 
tones  of  most  of  the  world's  masterpieces  may  be  obtained  for  a 
reasonable  price.  Some  good  color  prints  from  both  old  and 
new  masters  are  also  available.    Even  a  group  of  magazine 


Plate  VIII. — A  few  excellent  types  of  mirrors  and  foot-stools  that  are  both 
serviceable  and  decorative. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


89 


prints,  similar  in  size  and  harmonious  in  color,  may  be  a  worthy 
contribution  to  the  decorative  scheme  of  the  room.  These  are 
far  better  than  amateur  efforts  with  paintg  or  crayon. 

A  good  picture  deserves  a  good  frame.  The  frame  serves 
to  protect  the  picture  and  to  enhance  its  appearance,  but  should 
never  be  so  large,  ornate  or  obtrusive  as  to  assert  itself  at  the 
expense  of  the  picture.  A  frame  for  a  mirror  may  appropriately 
be  more  decorative;  the  controlling  thought  in  selecting  such  a 
frame  is  its  fitness  to  the  wall  and  other  furnishings.  The  width, 
style,  and  color  of  the  frame  must  be  suited  to  the  picture. 
Light  pictures,  like  etchings  and  many  water  colors,  look  best 
framed  in  light,  delicate  moldings,  with  or  without  a  mat,  as 
the  case  may  require.  Photographs  in  gray  or  brown  tones 
stand  a  heavier,  darker  frame  toned  to  accord  with  the  picture. 
Colored  pictures  often  look  well  in  gilt  frames,  but  the  gilt 
should  be  dulled  and,  like  the  frame  of  wood,  should  be  toned 
to  harmonize  with  the  picture.  If  the  frame  alone  does  not 
sufficiently  isolate  the  picture,  a  mat  of  harmonizing  color  may 
be  used.  Strong  contrasts  between  frame,  mat,  and  picture, 
such  as  is  frequently  seen  in  photograph  or  engraving  surrounded 
by  a  white  mat  and  black  frame,  should  be  avoided;  they  are  too 
assertive  to  take  a  place  in  any  color  scheme. 

The  size  and  proportion  of  pictures  should  be  adjusted  to 
the  wall  spaces;  a  tall  picture  in  a  vertical  space,  a  broad  pic- 
ture in  a  horizontal  space,  or  a  combination  of  these  so  ar- 
ranged as  to  form  groups  of  pleasing  proportions.  Pictures  rec- 
tangular in  shape  harmonize  better  with  the  structural  masses 
than  round  or  oval  pictures.  Strong  contrasts  of  color  and  value 
between  wall  and  picture  tend  to  destroy  the  harmony  between 
the  picture  and  its  setting.  Dark  pictures  on  a  light  wall,  light 
pictures  on  a  dark  wall,  assert  themselves  unduly.  The  general 
tone  of  the  picture  should  be  related  to  that  of  the  wall. 

A  few  general  points  should  be  remembered  in  the  hanging 
of  pictures.  They  should  be  hung  flat  against  the  wall,  not 
tilted  out  from  it;  they  should  be  fastened  securely  to  the  wall 
or  suspended  from  the  picture-molding  by  two  parallel  vertical 
wires.    The  height  of  the  pictures  should  be  related  to  the 


90 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


level  of  the  eye,  and  in  general  either  the  tops  or  bottoms  of 
the  frames  should  be  at  the  same  distance  from  the  floor,  unless 
a  picture  appears  better  hung  in  relation  to  some  piece  of 
furniture,  such  as  a  desk  or  bookcase.  Pictures  are  often  hung 
too  high. 

Other  f  urnishing  accessories 

While  some  small  furnishings  have  a  distinct  use  and  may 
introduce  the  one  decorative  note  needed  to  complete  the' 
scheme,  safety  lies  in  restraint.  These  small  things  should 
be  selected  with  as  much  care  as  the  larger  furnishings.  The 
lesson  of  sacrificing  heirlooms,  mistaken  purchases,  and  even 
misfit  gifts  for  the  sake  of  the  unity  of  the  whole  scheme  should 
be  early  learned.  Constructive  forms  with  lines  that  are 
slightly  curved  for  the  sake  of  grace  while  the  general  direction 
of  support  or  economic  outline  is  kept,  are  pleasing.  Whatever 
is  added  by  way  of  ornament  must  follow  or  fit,  not  conceal, 
this  structural  shape.  Masses  of  decoration  applied  without  re- 
gard to  the  form,  cheapen  the  appearance  and  confuse  the 
intent  of  the  object. 

In  the  choosing  of  a  clock,  a  clearly  marked  dial  and  a  support- 
ing case  of  pleasing  contour  and  form  are  the  essential  considera- 
tions. The  general  design  will  vary  according  as  the  clock  is 
intended  to  stand  on  the  mantel  or  the  floor  or  to  be  affixed 
to  the  wall. 

The  real  function  of  a  vase  is  to  serve  as  a  container  for 
flowers.  The  design  of  the  vase  should,  therefore,  anticipate 
the  flower,  though  it  may  be  so  distinguished  in  color  and  form 
as  to  be  by  itself  a  decorative  note  in  a  room.  The  color  or 
decoration  on  the  vase  should  not  attempt  to  compete  with 
the  flower. 

Lamps  are  indispensable  to  comfort,  whether  oil,  gas,  or 
electricity  is  used  for  illumination,  and  are  one  of  the  most 
decorative  and  intimate  features  in  a  furnishing  scheme.  Three 
elements  enter  into  the  design  of  lamps;  the  light,  its  shade, 
and  its  support.  The  support  should  both  be  and  appear 
.adequate  for  its  use  and  should  harmonize  both  in  size  and 


HOME  FURNISHING 


91 


shape  with  the  shade.  Broad  bases  or  heavy  bowls  give  stability 
to  the  design  of  a  lamp.  Metal  and  pottery  are  eminently  suit- 
able materials  for  lamp  standards.  The  height  of  the  lamp  and 
the  flare  of  the  shade  should  be  related  to  the  space  that  is  to 
be  lighted.  Tall  lamps  with  broad  flaring  shades  illuminate 
a  large  circle,  while  low  lamps  and  snug  shades  confine  the 
light  to  small  areas  (Fig.  30). 

In  general,  warm  or  yellowish  tones  for  shades  are  more 
genial  and  more  in  keeping  with  the  idea  of  light  than  are  cool 
colors;  they  are  also  more  becoming.   Paper  or  parchment  and 


Fig.  30. — Good  types  of  lamps  with  substantial  bases  and  attractive  shades 
that  are  serviceable  in  use. 


fabrics  are  less  stiff  in  material  and  more  flexible  in  color  scheme 
than  are  glass  and  metal  for  shades.  Complex  shapes  and 
millinery  treatment  for  shades  should  be  avoided. 

The  waste-basket  serves  a  humble  but  important  use.  It 
should  be  so  made  as  to  stand  firmly,  conceal  its  contents,  and 
be  unobtrusive  in  color  and  design. 

Sofa  pillows  are  valuable  if  they  are  useful.  Plain  or  figured 
materials  of  agreeable  texture,  harmonizing  with  the  general 
coloring  of  the  room,  are  more  decorative  than  those  elaborately 
made. 

The  much-abused  tidy  has  in  a  few  cases  a  real  use  in  pro- 
tecting the  backs  of  upholstered  chairs  from  the  hair;  it  should 
be  trim  in  outline,  of  washable  material,  of  inconspicuous  color, 
and  fastened  securely  in  place. 


92 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Mere  curiosities  should  be  kept  in  a  closed  cabinet  or  a 
museum. 

ARRANGEMENT  OF  FURNISHINGS  (fIGS.  31-33) 

The  character  of  every  room  should  be  obvious  at  the  moment 
of  entrance.  It  should  be  immediately  evident  whether  the 
room  in  question  is  used  for  a  family  gathering  room,  for  literary 
or  social  pursuits,  a  playroom,  or  a  workroom.  All  parts  of 
the  room  should  contribute  to  this  simple  and  sustained  im- 
pression. It  is  for  the  moment  a  complete  picture  in  which  no 
one  object  compels  undue  attention  because  of  conspicuous 
size,  color,  or  decoration.   Unity  is  the  whole  idea. 

The  contents  of  the  room  should  show  first  of  all,  orderliness 
of  arrangement.  The  distribution  of  the  furnishings  should 
be  adjusted  to  the  structural  lines  of  the  room;  rugs  parallel 
with  the  walls  of  the  room,  draperies  hanging  in  straight  folds 
in  rectangular  openings,  tables,  couches,  bookcases,  beds, 
bureaus,  and  dressers  following  and  fitting  the  available  wall 
spaces.  Pictures,  single  or  grouped,  arranged  with  direct 
relation  to  the  furniture  and  to  a  continuous  line  of  a  given 
height,  table  runners  and  books  straight  with  the  library  table, 
square  lunch  cloths  and  doilies  straight  with  the  edges  of  the 
dining-table, — all  are  manifestations  of  order  in  arrangement. 
Diagonal  lines  introduced  by  curtains  looped  back,  rugs  askew 
on  the  floor,  furniture  placed  across  the  corners,  or  at  oblique 
angles  to  the  wall,  pictures  hanging  in  steps,  set  at  defiance  the 
rectangular  lines  of  the  room  and  disturb  the  sense  of  order. 

The  furnishings  of  the  room  should  be  so  arranged  as  not 
to  crowd  all  the  interest  on  one  or  two  walls,  leaving  the  other 
parts  of  the  room  empty  and  dead.  Instead,  the  interest  should 
be  distributed  throughout  the  room  by  a  balanced  arrangement. 
For  example,  heavy  features,  such  as  a  fireplace  on  one  side 
of  the  room,  may  be  balanced  by  a  long  davenport  .on  the  oppo- 
site side,  with  bookcase,  table,  and  desk  occupying  end  positions. 

The  next  step  is  to  consider  the  arrangement  of  furnishings 
from  the  standpoint  of  convenience  and  use.  The  comfort  of  a 
room  depends  on  the  grouping  of  the  pieces  that  are  to  be  used 


94 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


together.  Thus  a  generous  hving-room  may  provide  a  hearth 
center,  a  reading  center,  a  music  center,  and  a  sewing  center  if 
the  furnishings  are  properly  grouped;  or,  in  the  case  of  a  bed- 
room, a  bed,  night  table,  and  lamp  might  form  one  group,  with 
dresser,  chair,  and  closet  in  another. 

The  arrangement  of  the  furnishings  depends  very  greatly 
on  the  location  of  windows  and  doors.  The  good  light  necessary 
for  reading,  writing,  or  sewing  puts  a  premium  on  the  positions 
near  the  windows,  for,  while  theoretically  it  is  possible  to  see 
in  all  parts  of  a  comfortably  lighted  room,  the  direct  light  from 
a  window  is  the  best  for  all  kinds  of  close  work.  The  furniture 
grouping  must,  therefore,  adjust  itself  to  this  requirement. 
Desks  arranged  with  a  good  light  from  the  left  side,  the  prin- 
cipal reading  seats  within  comfortable  distance  from  the  win- 
dows, and  adequate  lamps  or  lighting  fixtures  provided  where 
most  needed,  insure  satisfaction  in  this  respect. 

Care  should  also  be  taken  to  arrange  furniture  groups  away 
from  drafts  and  paths  of  travel.  Bookcases,  cabinets,  and  the 
like,  may  occupy  odd  bits  of  wall  in  locations  where  it  is  not 
comfortable  to  sit. 

Just  as  the  form  of  a  chair  may  be  less  rectangular  than 
other  pieces  of  furniture,  so  its  position  in  the  furnishing  scheme 
is  more  free.  The  very  use  of  chairs  implies  that  they  cannot 
in  general  occupy  fixed  positions,  with  the  exception  perhaps 
of  an  occasional  upholstered  or  straight-backed  chair.  This 
flexibility  of  chair  arrangements  introduces  enough  variety  to 
keep  the  room  from  looking  stiff.  Nothing  in  the  room  is  so 
insignificant  as  to  escape  the  need  of  thoughtful  placing;  vases, 
clocks,  lamps,  and  pictures,  all  are  elements  in  the  scheme. 

Arrangement,  however,  is  as  much  concerned  with  the  elimi- 
nation of  superfluous  features  as  with  the  proper  disposal  of 
the  essentials.  Souvenirs,  trinkets,  and  family  photographs,  no 
matter  what  their  personal  significance,  cheapen  the  effect 
and  lessen  the  dignity  of  rooms  intended  for  general  use. 
A  room  is  a  good  design  only  when  nothing  can  be  added 
and  nothing  can  be  taken  away  without  marring  its  com- 
pleteness. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


95 


CHARACTER  OF  ROOMS  EXPRESSED  BY  FURNISHINGS 

The  hall,  living-room,  dining-room,  and  library,  if  there  is  one, 
represent  one  group  of  interests,  and  may  be  considered  to  form 
the  social,  recreative,  or  living  area  of  the  house.  The  general 
character  of  these  rooms  should  be  spacious  and  decorative  in 
effect.  Though  each  unit  of  this  group  should  have  its  own  dis- 
tinctive character,  these  living-rooms,  on  account  of  their  inter- 
relation and  common  use,  should  show  some  harmony  in  color 
and  treatment. 

The  hall  is  the  threshold  of  the  house.  It  serves  as  an  intro- 
duction. This  first  impression  should  be  one  of  welcome  and 
dignity  and,  above  all,  of  order.  Good  light,  genial  colors  on 
the  walls  and  floor,  a  sense  of  free  space  for  the  passage  of  per- 
sons, an  ample  provision  for  the  necessary  wraps  and  umbrellas 
in  a  tidy  and  concealed  form,  are  the  essential  characteristics 
of  a  well-considered  hall,  regardless  of  its  size.  If  a  regular 
coat  closet  is  not  provided  in  the  hall,  a  generous  rod  with  coat 
hangers  arranged  in  an  angle  behind  curtain  or  screen  is  far 
neater  and  more  satisfactory  than  some  form  of  mongrel  hat 
rack  exposed  to  view. 

The  movable  furnishings  necessary  to  equip  the  hall  of  a 
dwelHng  for  its  use  are  very  few,  a  rug  on  the  floor,  carpet  on  the 
stairs,  a  chair  or  seat,  a  well-lighted  mirror,  a  clock  perhaps, 
and  a  small  stand  with  drawers  for  gloves,  time-tables,  pad  and 
pencil,  and  other  incidentals.  Decorative  touches  may  be  intro- 
duced by  a  figured  wall  paper,  a  potted  plant,  or  a  spray  of 
flowers. 

The  character  of  the  modern  living-room  should  unite  the 
dignity  of  the  old-fashioned  parlor  and  the  genuine  homely 
qualities  of  the  old-time  sitting-room.  The  large  living-room 
of  the  modern  house  is  an  attempt  to  amalgamate  into  a  single 
space  the  interests  formerly  represented  by  separate  rooms, 
such  as  reception-room,  music-room,  parlor,  sitting-room,  and 
library.  Its  character  should  accordingly  represent  dignity, 
hospitality,  comfort,  and  recreation.  This  room  must  be  gen- 
eral not  personal,  in  its  decoration  and  furnishing.    Walls  and 


Plate  IX. — Simple  and  serviceable  types  of  bedroom  furniture  that  may  be 
developed  in  different  woods  suitable  for  rooms  with  varying  finish.. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


97 


rugs  sufficiently  neutral  in  color  to  form  a  good  background, 
harmonious  furnishings  adjusted  to  the  space  and  suitably 
arranged  for  the  interests  to  be  accommodated,  and  a  method 
of  comfortable  lighting  both  by  day  and  by  night  are  the  essen- 
tial considerations.  The  position  of  such  structural  pieces  as 
the  fireplace  and  the  location  of  the  windows  give  the  cue  to  the 
general  arrangement  for  the  room. 

The  selection  of  the  furnishings  in  each  case  will  depend  on 
whether  the  main  interests  of  the  household  are  youthful  or 
mature,  studious  or  musical,  industrial  or  social. 

One  or  two  large  rugs  are  more  appropriate  for  the  living- 
room  than  a  number  of  small  ones.  Small  rugs  in  a  living- 
room  are  an  aggravation,  because  of  the  tendency  to  slip  about, 
turn  up  at  the  corners,  and  give  a  scrappy  appearance  to  a  floor. 

In  general,  a  typical  living-room  for  general  family  use  should 
include  a  fireplace,  some  form  of  lounge,  bookshelves,  a  generous 
table  with  lamp,  a  place  to  write,  and  plenty  of  comfortable 
chairs.  A  piano  or  victrola,  a  sewing-table,  small  or  folding 
tables  that  can  be  moved  around  to  serve  a  cup  of  tea  or  for 
games  and  the  like,  may  also  be  needed.  Added  to  these  are  a 
number  of  small  furnishings  that  should  be  thoughtfully  selected 
to  complete  the  comfort  of  the  occupants  as  the  room  is  used. 
Footstools  or  hassocks,  a  dictionary-stand,  lamps  and  candle- 
sticks, a  waste-basket,  a  neat  wood-box  or  basket,  a  few  pillows, 
a  vase  or  two  for  flowers,  a  clock,  are  all  worthy  adjuncts  to  the 
family  room.  A  place  should  also  be  provided  for  the  quick  dis- 
posal of  transient  paraphernalia,  such  as  father's  newspaper, 
mother's  mending,  and  the  children's  toys. 

The  artificial  lighting  of  the  room  should  be  adjusted  to  the 
spaces  that  are  used  at  night.  A  general  diffusion  of  light  over 
the  whole  space  can  be  provided  most  simply  by  some  central 
form  of  ceiling  light.  In  addition  to  this,  lamps  will  be  needed 
for  reading  or  close  work.  The  soft  light  of  candles  or  the  open 
fire  are  sufficient  when  the  room  is  used  only  for  conversation. 

The  character  of  a  dining-room  should  above  all  be  cheerful. 
Eastern  windows  admitting  the  morning  sun,  light  colors  on 
the  walls,  plants  or  flowers,  are  a  real  aid  to  good  digestion. 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Fig.  33. — Top,  an  effective  and  logical  arrangement 
of  furniture  in  a  square  dining-room.  Bottom, 
a  well-planned  bedroom  showing  a  serviceable 
arrangement  of  dressing  and  sleeping  equipment, 
with  plenty  of  free  space  for  passage. 


HOME  FURNISHING 


99 


In  contrast  to  the  living-room,  the  dining-room  has  but  one 
function  and  therefore  but  one  center  of  interest.  The  dec- 
oration and  furnishing  of  this  room  should  focus  on  the  idea 
of  the  table  in  use.  A  dining-table  capable  of  enlargement, 
a  rug  perhaps,  chairs,  a  serving-table,  and  a  place  to  keep  the 
dishes,  against  an  interestingly  papered  or  paneled  back- 
ground, constitute  the  real  requirements  of  the  dining-room. 
Anything  provided  in  addition  to  this  is  purely  by  way  of  decora- 
tion which  implies  that  the  added  features  must  enhance  the 
general  appearance.  Clean  linen — white,  cream,  or  gray — 
simple  forms  of  knives,  forks,  and  spoons,  china  with  refined 
outlines  and  restrained  decorations,  furnish  a  dining-room  with 
more  distinction  than  an  abundance  of  ornate  furnishing. 

Unlike  the  living  area,  the  rooms  of  the  sleeping  area  stand 
each  one  by  itself,  a  complete  unit,  both  in  furnishing  and  in 
decoration.  A  sleeping-room  should  above  all  be  personal  in 
its  use,  light,  airy,  and  intimate  in  character.  Sufficient  window 
space,  light  colored  walls  and  woodwork,  fresh  looking  curtains, 
furniture  stained  or  painted  to  accord  with  these,  carry  out  this 
idea.  A  clean  comfortable  bed,  conveniences  for  dressing  and 
storage  of  clothes  provided  by  dressing-table,  bureau,  chiffonier 
and  closet,  a  well-lighted  mirror,  a  comfortable  chair  or  two, 
a  bedside  table,  and  rugs  in  the  open  spaces  are  the  essentials. 
Facilities  for  writing  or  sewing  may  also  be  needed.  Whatever 
accessories  are  introduced  are  of  a  personal  nature. 

Bed  and  dressing  arrangements  should  be  located  with  special 
reference  to  good  lighting  both  by  day  and  by  night.  The  bed 
should  be  so  placed  as  not  to  face  the  light,  while  the  mirror 
should  be  so  placed  that  the  person  dressing  is  in  full  light. 
Side  lights  are  a  particularly  appropriate  type  for  bedroom  use. 

The  character,  equipment,  and  use  of  the  kitchen  are  discussed 
in  connection  with  its  planning  on  pages  100  to  120. 


CHAPTER  III 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN  * 

By  Helen  Binkerd  Young  - 

Any  home-maker  should  be  able  to  plan  a  kitchen  intelli- 
gently. This  means  a  kitchen  that  measures  up  to  some  stand- 
ard tests  on  general  essential  points.  The  details  are  of  small 
moment  when  compared  to  such  fundamental  considerations 
as  the  size  of  the  kitchen,  the  amount  of  light  and  air,  and  the 
general,  organization  of  the  work.  Too  much  or  too  little  floor 
space,  too  many  doors,  too  few  windows,  and  too  little  wall 
space  are  basic  matters  that  may  break  up  the  entire  conven- 
ience of  the  place,  no  matter  how  perfect  the  details  of  equip- 
ment may  be.  Naturally,  it  is  too  late  to  begin  to  plan  a  kitchen 
after  it  is  built,  for  the  structural  conditions  are  then  fixed 
and  the  possibilities  of  arrangement  are  accordingly  limited. 
This  is  not  meant  to  discourage  the  remodeling  of  old  kitchens, 
but  merely  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  planning  the  kitchen 
correctly  at  the  start. 

USE  OF  THE  kitchen 

f  Properly  speaking,  the  kitchen  is  a  scrupulously  clean  room 
intended  for  operations  connected  with  food  materials,  and  for 
this  purpose  only.  It  is  not  the  province  of  the  kitchen  to  pro- 
vide space  for  eating,  for  washing  and  ironing  clothes,  for  lava- 
tory purposes,  for  removing  boots,  wraps,  and  overalls,  or  for 
passageway  from  the  back  of  the  house  to  the  front.  For  the 
sake  of  cleanliness  and  speed,  such  activities  should  be  provided 
for  elsewhere.  It  is  poor  logic  and  poor  economy  to  plan  for 
such  features  as  laundry  tubs  and  cleaning  closets  in  the  kitchen, 
for  they  are  too  unsanitary  and  too  unrelated  to  food  work  to 

*  Cornell  Reading-Course  for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  108. 
100 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN  101 


have  a  place  there.  Moreover,  in  order  to  include  the  laundry 
work,  the  kitchen  must  be  made  larger  than  it  would  otherwise 
need  to  be.  A  separate  room  for  laundry  purposes  should  be 
provided,  either  in  the  basement  or,  as  in  the  case  of  the  farm- 
house, on  the  same  floor  as  the  kitchen  and  adjacent  to  it. 


Fig.  34. — A  large  kitchen,  14  by  18  feet,  so  rear- 
ranged that  food  and  laundry  work  are  sepa- 
rately grouped,  while  the  stove  is  common  to 
both. 


This  room  can  also  be  used  for  the  storage  of  cleaning  mater- 
ials and  as  a  direct  entrance  into  the  main  part  of  the  house, 
thereby  eliminating  constant  passage  through  the  kitchen. 
Therefore,  by  taking  out  of  the  kitchen  proper  all  operations 
foreign  to  foods,  a  smaller  and  more  convenient  room  may 
be  planned. 

Even  in  altering  an  old  house,  this  idea  of  planning  the  kitchen 
proper  for  food  work  only,  should  be  the  guiding  thought.  Thus, 
a  large  kitchen  in  which  the  family  washing  has  been  done 


102 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


should  be  remodeled  in  such  a  way  that  all  food  work  is  grouped 
at  one  end  and  laundry  work  and  passage  at  the  other  end,  with 
the  stove  as  the  common  piece  of  equipment  between.  If  the 
room  is  large  enough  for  it,  a  thin  partition  wall  may  be  used 
to  complete  the  division.  This  makes  a  more  cleanly  and  more 
economical  arrangement  than  does  the  single  large  room  with 
the  two  kinds  of  work  crossing  each  other.  Such  a  kitchen  al- 
teration is  shown  in  Fig.  34. 

The  same  idea  of  grouping  the  food  work  in  an  alcove  and 
using  the  remainder  of  the  space  for  another  purpose  can  be 
applied  to  a  combination  kitchen  and  dining-room,  such  as  is 
shown  in  Fig.  14.  The  compact  kitchen  end  could  be  made  light 
and  washable  in  character,  and  the  dining-room  end  more  like  a 
sitting-room,  with  passage  through  the  room  halfway  between, 
thus  disturbing  the  comfort  of  neither  part. 

It  is  evident  from  the  foregoing  explanation  that  the  intelligent 
planning  of  a  kitchen  involves  a  number  of  side  issues,  which, 
in  the  case  of  the  farmhouse,  unite  to  make  of  it  a  very  complex 
problem.  If  the  kitchen  is  to  become  a  compact,  businesslike 
compartment  for  one  use  only,  the  entire  working  arrangements 
of  the  house  must  be  thoroughly  studied  in  order  to  make  sure 
that  there  is  a  definite  place  allotted  to  every  need  (Fig.  37). 

EXPOSURE 

The  location  of  the  kitchen  will  of  course  depend  on  the  re- 
mainder of  the  house  plan  and  on  the  location  of  the  other  rooms. 
Theoretically,  the  best  exposure  and  location  for  a  kitchen  is 
toward  the  north,  the  northeast,  or  the  northwest,  with  at 
least  two  outer  walls  for  light  and  air.  This  implies  either  a 
corner  location  or  a  separate  wing.  South,  southeast,  and  south- 
west are  less  desirable  exposures  for  a  kitchen,  because  they  are 
likely  to  be  hot  and  glaring  and  are  usually  hard  to  ventilate. 
Furthermore,  southern  exposures  are  usually  at  a  premium  for 
the  more  important  living-rooms.  If  the  arrangement  is  such 
that  the  kitchen  can  have  but  a  single  exposure,  it  can  still  be 
made  a  very  comfortable  one  as  regards  light,  air,  and  coolness, 
if  it  faces  north  and  is  provided  with  plenty  of  windows;  whereas, 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN  103 


ja  kitchen  having  but  one  outside  wall,  and  that  facing  directly 
^  feouth,  is  in  the  very  worst  situation  from  every  viewpoint. 

SIZE 

e     The  size  of  the  kitchen  is  determined  chiefly  by  the  number 
ilof  workers  and  by  the  kind  of  fuel  to  be  used  for  cooking.  In 
'general  it  should  always  be  large  enough  to  accommodate 
two  workers  in  emergency,  and  yet  at  the  same  time  as  small 
I')  as  convenience  will  allow. 

A  kitchen  in  which  coal  is  to  be  used  for  fuel  is  normally 
larger  than  one  in  which  gas  is  to  be  used,  because  of  the  larger 
size  of  the  range,  the  need  for  a  convenient  supply  of  fuel,  and 
the  fact  that  for  reasons  of  comfort  the  other  pieces  of  furniture 
cannot  be  placed  too  near  the  stove.  Years  of  experience  in 
planning,  equipping,  and  using  kitchens  under  conservational 
methods,  show  that  a  gas-fuel  kitchen  with  a  pass  pantry  need 
not  exceed  150  square  feet  of  floor  space,  and  that  a  coal-fuel 
kitchen,  together  with  a  pass  and  food  pantry,  ordinarily  need 
not  exceed  an  area  of  200  square  feet  of  floor  space.  This  area 
may  be  arranged  in  such  shapes  as  9  by  12  feet,  10  by  12  feet, 
10  by  13  or  14  feet,  11  by  11  feet,  11  by  12  or  13  feet,  or  12  by  12 
feet,  for  the  kitchen  proper,  and  5  by  7,  8,  9,  or  10  feet,  or  6 
by  6,  7,  or  8  feet,  for  the  pantry,  according  as  these  measure- 
ments best  fit  into  the  plan  for  the  remainder  of  the  house.  In 
general,  approximately  square  shapes  for  kitchens  and  pantries 
are  more  convenient  than  are  long,  narrow  ones.  Eight  feet 
should  be  the  minimum  width  for  a  kitchen. 

Of  course  the  areas  given  are  merely  guides  to  help  determine 
the  probable  amount  of  space  needed  for  kitchen  developments 
and  to  serve  as  a  sort  of  check  on  wasteful  or  crowded  planning. 
It  is  very  easy  to  plan  a  kitchen  that  is  too  large;  it  is  also  pos- 
sible to  plan  a  kitchen  that  is  too  small,  where  freedom  of  motion 
is  cramped  and  where  one  tires  of  standing  always  in  one  place 
or  position. 

DOORS 

After  the  size  and  the  location  of  the  kitchen  have  been  de- 
termined, the  placing  of  the  openings  is  the  next  step  to  be  con- 


104  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING  |{ 

sidered.    The  subject  of  doors  especially  should  be  given  th« 
most  deliberate  attention,  for  the  inconvenience  of  many  kitch- 
ens can  be  traced  back  to  the  presence  of  too  many  or  wrongly 
placed  doors. 

It  is  evident  that  a  kitchen  should  have  as  few  doors  as  pos- 
sible in  order  to  avoid  breaking  up  the  wall  space  and  to  avoid 
passage  through  the  kitchen  to  different  parts  of  the  house. 
Ordinarily,  five  or  six  doors  are  needed  in  connection  with  the 
kitchen  work:  an  outside  door,  a  pantry  door,  a  cellar  door,  a 
door  to  the  dining-room,  and  perhaps  one  leading  to  a  rear  stair- 
way or  hall.  Fortunately,  all  these  doors  need  not  be  located 
in  the  kitchen  proper.  Different  combinations  can  be  arranged 
whereby  one  door  can  be  made  to  serve  two  or  three  purposes.. 
Thus,  the  cellar  or  the  rear-stair  door  might  open  from  a  pantry 
or  from  an  outside  entry,  which  might  also  contain  the  outside 
door.  Two  or  three  doors  of  passage  are  all  that  are  needed  in 
a  well-planned  kitchen.  These  should,  as  nearly  as  possible,  be; 
arranged  at  one  side,  corner,  or  end,  thus  leaving  a  continuous 
wall  space  in  an  alcove  form  for  the  arrangement  of  equipment." 

WINDOWS 

The  function  of  a  window  is  essentially  twofold — -to  admit 
light  and  air.  Naturally  that  arrangement  of  windows  will  be 
most  reasonable  which  provides  for  the  best  diffusion  of  light 
and  the  best  ventilation  with  the  least  amount  of  glass  space. 
For,  while  it  is  poor  economy  to  have  too  few  windows,  it  is  also 
poor  economy  to  have  too  many. 

It  has  been  found  that  for  effective  results,  a  sort  of  flexible 
relation  exists  between  the  amount  of  window  space  to  be  used 
and  the  size  of  the  room  to  be  lighted.  Accordingly,  the  total 
window  area  for  a  kitchen  should  in  general  be  about  25  per 
cent  of  the  floor  area.  For  example,  a  kitchen  11  by  11  feet, 
having  121  square  feet  of  floor  area,  should  be  provided  with 
about  30  square  feet  of  window  space,  arranged  on  the  two 
outer  walls.  This  space  may  be  divided  into  two  windows  3  by 
5  feet  each,  or  three  windows  23^  by  4  feet  each,  or  three 
windows  2  by  43^  feet  each,  as  the  case  may  require.  The  I 


i 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN  105 

necessary  window  space  for  any  given  kitchen  may  thus  be 
approximated. 

Ordinarily,  kitchen  windows  should  be  located  as  far  apart  as 
possible.  In  the  case  of  a  corner  exposure,  they  should  be  placed 
near  the  partition  walls  rather  than  near  the  corner  of  the  house. 
This  arrangement  insures  a  strong  diagonal  sweep  of  air  and 
an  even  distribution  of  light.  The  tops  of  the  windows  should 
be  not  more  than  a  foot  from  the  ceiling,  so  that  the  rising  heat 
and  odors  can  easily  escape.  Broad,  short  windows,  built  high 
from  the  floor,  are  an  excellent  type  for  kitchen  use.  The  dis- 
tance from  the  floor  to  the  sill  should  be  from  three  to  four  feet, 
in  order  to  allow  for  table  space  beneath  the  windows.  While 
not  so  picturesque  as  casements,  double-hung  windows  are 
usually  the  easier  type  to  operate  in  a  kitchen. 

ARRANGEMENT  OF  EQUIPMENT 

|j  Having  planned  the  kitchen  that  is  structurally  suited  to  its 
I.  use,  further  convenience  depends  on  the  selection  and  arrange- 
|:  ment  of  the  furniture,  or  equipment.  In  this,  as  in  the  case  of 
I  any  industry,  the  aim  should  be  to  do  the  most  work  in  the 
I  least  time  without  friction  and  with  the  fewest  workers. 

The  equipment  should  line  the  walls,  leaving  a  free  central 
space  for  working.  Theoretically,  every  change  in  working 
level,  whether  of  floor  or  table,  and  every  gap  between  two 
pieces  of  equipment,  cause  loss  of  efficiency;  that  is  to  say,  the 
more  continuous  the  arrangement  of  equipment,  the  more  con- 
venient will  be  the  work.  Having  dispensed  with  all  unneces- 
sary doors  and  deliberately  preserved  one  or  two  continuous 
wall  spaces,  the  disposition  of  the  equipment  becomes  an  easy 
matter.  Indeed,  it  would  be  diflScult  to  make  a  really  incon- 
venient work-place  of  a  compact,  well-lighted  kitchen  of  limited 
size,  having  few  doors  and  generous  wall  spaces,  such  as  has 
been  previously  described.  But  in  order  to  reach  a  standard 
of  maximum  convenience,  the  work  and  the  equipment  should 
be  organized  so  that  all  things  pertaining  to  a  given  operation 
are  grouped  together. 

The  table,  the  stove,  and  the  sink  represent  the  three  essen- 


106 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


tial  operations  carried  on  in  a  kitchen:  the  preparation  of  the 
food,  the  cooking  of  the  food,  and  the  cleaning-up  process  that 
follows.  This  equipment  and  this  work  form  the  nucleus  of 
three  operation  centers:  (1)  the  food  center,  (2)  the  heat  center, 
and  (3)  the  water  center.  This  organization  is  the  basis  of 
convenient  arrangement  for  every  home  kitchen,  large  or  small, 
whether  it  belongs  to  apartment,  suburban  home,  or  farmhouse. 

1.  The  food  center  requires  the  following  equipment: 

a.  Table  space,  from  8  to  12  square  feet  exclusive  of  sink-boards 

b.  Storage  space 

Ice-box 
Dumb-waiter 
Food  pantry 
(Any  or  all  of  these) 

Drawers  and  shelves 
(In  form  of  closet  or  cabinet) 


(1)  For  cold  foods . 


(2)  For  dry  supplies  and 
utensils  needed  in  food 
preparation 


2.  The  heat  center  requires  the  following  equipment: 

a.  Stove  or  range,  from  2  by  3  feet  to  23^  by  5  feet 

Fuel  box  or  bin,  if  coal  or  wood  is  to  be  used 

b.  Storage  space. .  .  |  Pan  closet  for  utensils 

Water  boiler 

3.  The  water  center  requires  the  following  equipment: 

a.  Sink,  2  by  3  feet,  more  or  less 

b.  Drain-board,  8  square  feet  or  more — part  to  right  and  part 

to  left  of  sink 

Shelves  and  drawers 
(In  form  of  china  closet  and  pan 
closet) 


Storage  space  for  china 
and  utensils 


The  food  center  should,  if  possible,  be  located  on  an  outer 
wall,  with  the  sink  and  range  centers  on  inside  walls  and  with 
light  coming  from  the  side.  Ordinarily,  the  position  of  the 
dining-room  and  the  location  of  the  main  chimneys  of  the  house 
determine  the  general  location  of  the  sink  and  the  range,  re- 
spectively. The  sink  should  be  near  or  next  the  dining-room 
wall,  so  that  meal  service  involves  a  short  path  of  travel  and 
but  one  handling  of  dishes. 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN 


107 


If  possible,  the  food  and  water  centers  should  be  combined 
into  one  arrangement,  so  that  all  the  table  space,  such  as  the 
table  top,  the  cabinet  shelf,  and  the  drain-board,  forms  a  con- 
tinuous work  shelf  on  the  same  level. 

Ordinarily  the  stove  or  the  range  is  the  one  piece  of  equip- 
ment that  should  be  set  somewhat  apart.  It  may  even  be 
conveniently  placed  in  a  detached  position  on  a  separate  wall 
space,  partly  because  the  other  work  is  more  comfortable  if 
the  stove  is  not  too  near,  and  partly  because  the  design  of 
stoves  is  such  that  two  or  three  sides  must  be  accessible  to  the 
worker. 

The  question  is  often  asked  whether  movable  or  built-in 
equipment  is  preferable.  While  the  use  of  either  sort  can  be 
made  entirely  convenient  in  arrangement,  there  is  much  to 
be  said  in  favor  of  built-in  equipment  as  far  as  cleanliness  and 
appearance  are  concerned.  In  the  latter  case,  there  are  no 
cracks  behind  or  under  the  furniture,  and,  consequently,  the 
moving  of  heavy  articles  is  unnecessary  in  cleaning.  A  table, 
a  stove,  and  a  cabinet,  all  separate  and  standing  on  legs  or 
casters,  make  the  problem  of  a  clean  floor  more  difficult  than 
if  the  cabinet  and  the  range  were  set  directly  on  the  floor  and 
the  table  space  was  supphed  by  drain-boards  or  a  shelf.  Also, 
the  appearance  is  simpler  and  more  restful  with  the  built-in 
pieces.  However,  a  satisfactory  kitchen  can  be  made  by  the  use 
of  separate  pieces. 

Table  space. 

Extensive  table  space  may  be  gained  by  providing  generous 
drain-boards  to  right  and  left  of  the  sink,  continuous  with  the 
cabinet  shelf.  A  movable  table  of  the  same  height,  mounted  on 
casters  or,  preferably,  on  small  wheels,  will  prove  a  great  step- 
saver  and  will  simplify  the  serving  of  meals.  A  double-deck 
wheel  tray  would  serve  this  purpose  even  better  since  it  is 
lighter  to  push  about.  All  floors  on  a  level  and  all  table  tops 
on  a  level  save  many  an  accident  in  the  kitchen.  A  work  table 
covered  with  zinc  will  give  satisfaction  for  it  is  nonabsorbent 
and  is  easily  cleaned. 


108  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Range. 

The  newer  patterns  of  reliable  ranges  are  simpler  and  less 
ornate  than  those  of  the  older  stoves  and  require  less  care. 

If  a  new  kitchen  is  to  be  built,  a  separate  ventilating  flue  may 
be  provided  in  addition  to  the  smoke  flue.  This  ventilating 
flue,  provided  with  a  register  inlet  about  four  feet  above  the 
stove  top,  will  relieve  the  kitchen  of  odors  and  of  excessive 
heat,  especially  if  a  projecting  metal  hood  is  fastened  over  the 
range  for  collecting  the  rising  air. 

The  stove  or  range  requires  more  care  and  makes  more  dirt 
than  any  other  feature  in  the  kitchen.  Fuel  must  be  brought  in . 
and  ashes  must  be  removed.  Whatever  can  be  done  to  simplify 
the  incoming  and  the  outgoing  of  fuel  will  make  for  cleanliness 
and  for  economy  of  labor.  A  generous  temporary  supply  may 
be  stored  either  in  a  separate  fuel  compartment  next  to  the 
kitchen,  or  in  a  fuel  box  fitted  with  a  double-hinged  cover  and 
built  into  the  wall  in  such  a  way  that  it  may  be  filled  from 
without  and  emptied  from  within.  The  actual  arrangement  in 
any  case  will  depend  on  whether  wood  or  coal  is  burned  and 
whether  the  main  supply  may  be  stored  in  or  near  the  house. 

Ashes  may  be  emptied  directly  into  an  air-tight  metal  can  in 
the  cella^r.  This  is  an  easier  and  cleaner  method  than  removing 
them  by  hand.  A  can  of  a  size  that  one  man  can  handle  easily 
will  probably  not  need  to  be  emptied  oftener  than  once  a  week. 
Many  of  the  newer  ranges  are  already  equipped  for  this  method 
of  ash-disposal,  but  any  stove  may  be  so  arranged  if  there  is  a 
caieful  workman  at  hand.  The  ash  pan  should  first  be  removed 
from  the  stove  and  a  round  hole  cut  through  the  bottom  of  the 
ash  compartment  and  through  the  floor  below;  a  stovepipe  is 
then  passed  through  these  holes  and  is  flanged  over  the  bottom 
of  the  ash  pit  of  the  stove.  Two  precautions  must  be  observed 
in  this  piece  of  work:  first,  the  stovepipe  which  is  to  lead  the 
ashes  into  the  cellar  can  must  be  provided  with  a  damper 
near  the  stove,  in  order  to  prevent  an  upward  draught  of  air 
from  burning  out  the  fire;  second,  a  free  air  space  of  at  least  two 
inches  must  be  allowed  all  around  the  pipe  where  it  passes 
through  the  floor,  consequently  the  floor  hole  must  be  cut  at 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN  109 


least  four  inches  larger  than  the  pipe.  This  open  space  may  be 
filled  with  concrete  or  covered  with  an  ordinary  metal  collar. 
Measures  should  also  be  taken  to  make  the  ash  can  perfectly 
safe.  A  container  of  hot  ashes  in  a  place  not  frequently  visited, 
such  as  the  cellar,  may  prove  a  source  of  danger  unless  it  is 
surrounded  by  a  wire  cage  or  in  some  way  protected  so  that  rub- 
bish, paper,  kindUng,  or  other  combustible  material  can  never 
be  thrown  directly  against  it. 

Sink  and  drain-hoards. 

A  one-piece  enameled  iron  sink,  with  high  back,  will  prove 
a  satisfactory  appliance.  This  sink  should  be  large  enough 
to  hold  a  dishpan  conveniently.  Dishwashing  will  be  more 
quickly  accomplished  with  the  double  drain-board  before 
mentioned  than  if  a  single  drain-board  is  used.  Enameled 
iron  drain-boards  are  not  advisable.  They  are  more  showy 
than  serviceable,  for,  besides  being  noisy,  they  are  too  small 
to  be  useful  and  too  hard  to  be  safe  for  dishes.  Suitable 
drain-boards  may  be  made  of  ash  or  of  maple,  or  the}^  may 
be  made  of  some  other  wood  and  covered  with  zinc.  For 
the  purpose  of  shedding  water,  wooden  drain-boards  should  be 
grooved  and  zinc-covered  boards  should  be  provided  with  a 
curbed  or  raised  edge.  Furthermore,  a  drain-board  should 
slope  sHghtly  toward  the  sink, .  on  the  rim  of  which  it  rests. 
The  resulting  board  level  is  about  1  inch  above  the  sink  level. 

The  construction  of  sink-boards  requires  the  most  careful 
workmanship.  The  use  of  wood  for  draining  purposes  subjects 
it  to  the  severe  test  of  being  continually  wet  on  one  side  only. 
In  order  to  avoid  warping  and  splitting,  therefore,  a  sink-board 
should  be  thick,  heavy,  and  well  cleated  on  the  underside.  A 
surface  finish  that  will  render  the  boards  water-resisting  should 
be  applied  before  they  are  put  into  use.  Usually  sink-boards 
are  varnished,  but  this  finish  water-marks,  wears  off,  and  on  the 
whole  is  less  serviceable  than  a  surface  finished  with  wood  filler, 
followed  with  linseed  oil. 

The  sink  should  be  supported  from  the  wall,  rather  than  on 
legs,  and  should  be  piped,  if  possible,  through  a  partition  wall 


110 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


rather  than  through  the  floor.  A  sink  should  be  set  at  a  height 
convenient  for  the  worker — 34  inches  from  the  floor  is  a  good 
average  height.  The  usual  height  of  30  inches  to  the  top  of  the 
rim  is  too  low  for  most  persons. 

DISCUSSION  OF  PLANS  (figs.  35-38) 
The  plan  of  a  farmhouse  kitchen  that  has  been  developed  in 
accordance  with  the  principles  of  kitchen  planning  previously 
described  is  shown  in  Fig.  35.  It  will  be  found  to  work  out  satis- 
factorily on  each  of  the  essential  matters  of  use,  location,  size, 
number  and  location  of  doors,  number  and  location  of  windows, 
and  organization  of  work.  In  this  kitchen,  coal  or  wood  is 
used  for  fuel,  and  the  equipment  is  movable. 

In  Fig.  36  is  shown  the  arrangement  of  a  kitchen  in  a  suburban 
house.  In  this  case,  gas  is  used  for  fuel,  and  the  equipment 
is  built  in.  This  arrangement  also  will  be  found  to  stand  the 
test  on  the  points  essential  to  good  planning. 

The  working  area  of  a  farmhouse  is  represented  in  Fig.  37,  in 
which  the  principles  of  kitchen  planning  are  clearly  expressed. 
The  relation  of  the  kitchen  to  the  dining-room,  the  porch, 
the  pantry,  and  the  washroom,  should  first  be  noted,  after  which 
size,  location,  openings,  and  general  equipment  may  be  studied. 
This  kitchen  has  a  corner  location  on  the  plan,  with  the  food 
pantry  and  one  wall  exposed,  in  a  northerly  direction.  The 
kitchen  proper  represents  an  area  of  130  square  feet  and  the 
pantry  an  area  of  45  square  feet.  The  number  of  doors  has  been 
reduced  to  two,  which  are  placed  adjacent  so  that  travel  from 
the  porch  occurs  around  a  corner  and  not  across  the  working 
center.  The  most  direct  passage  from  the  barns  lies  through 
the  washroom,  as  should  be  the  case.  The  windows  of  the  kit- 
chen, which  are  placed  high,  light  the  working  area  sufficiently 
and  provide  good  ventilation.  Moreover,  if  it  is  needed,  a  com- 
plete sweep  of  air  may  be  obtained  from  end  to  end  by  opening 
the  two  pantry  doors,  over  either  of  which  a  transom  may  be 
built.  Both  these  doors  are  glazed,  in  order  to  afford  light  and 
view.  A  fuel  compartment  is  conveniently  located  for  either 
kitchen  or  washroom.    An  eating  porch,  looking  toward  the 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN  111 


garden  and  the  sunset,  occupies  the  corner  angle  between  the 
kitchen  and  the  dining-room.  The  kitchen  and  the  porch  con- 
nect with  a  Dutch  door,  so  that  outdoor  meals  are  easily  served. 
Extra  food  and  extra  fuel  are  stored  in  the  cellar,  whence  they 
are  delivered  by  a  dumb-waiter,  or  lift. 


TO  J)AW5 


Fig.  35. — A  farmhouse  kitchen  that  demonstrates 
the  principles  of  sound  planning. 


The  purpose  of  a  washroom  is  to  save  the  other  parts  of  the 
house.  Here  all  dirty  and  occasional  forms  of  work  may  be  done. 
The  room  is  equipped  for  the  family  washing  and  ironing,  and 
stores  such  general  cleaning  apparatus  as  brooms,  pails,  and 
vacuum  cleaner.  Here,  also,  men  coming  from  the  barn  may 
remove  muddy  boots  and  overalls,  and  may  clean  up  before 
going  to  the  table.  Such  feeding  pails  for  stock  as  are  brought 
to  the  house  should  be  deposited  here,  not  taken  into  the  kitchen. 


112 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Considering  the  nature  of  this  room  and  its  many  uses,  it  should 
be  made  as  large  as  can  be  afforded,  and  should  be  provided, 
if  possible,  with  a  cement  floor  and  a  painted  wall  so  that  splash- 
ing will  not  injure  it.   The  room  shown  in  Fig.  37  is  in  reality 


Fig.  36. — A  kitchen  for  a  suburban  house,  developed  in  accord- 
ance with  the  principles  of  good  arrangement. 


the  old  washhouse  and  woodshed,  fitted  more  completely  than 
formerly,  and  is  an  important  part  of  the  plan. 

PANTRIES  AND  CLOSETS 

No  part  of  the  kitchen  equipment  has  been  so  evaded  in 
planning  as  has  accurate  and  systematic  storage  space.  The 
habit  has  been  acquired  of  using  every  corner  and  tuck-away 
place  for  a  closet,  the  idea  being  that  the  more  closets,  the  greater 
would  be  the  convenience.  Too  much  or  inaccessible  storage 
space  invites  slack  housekeeping  and  is,  therefore,  more  de- 
structive to  the  general  scheme  than  is  too  little  closet  room. 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN 


113 


Limited  storage  space  compels  one  to  organize,  to  eliminate, 
and  to  arrange  compactly,  the  general  result  thereby  favoring 
conservation.    Only  such  storage  space  should  be  planned  as 


Fig.  37. — Plan  in  which  principles  of  kitchen  arrangement  are  clearly  expressed. 


is  really  needed  to  complete  and  assist  the  operation  of  the 
kitchen. 

There  are  three  general  types  of  storage  space  that  may  be 
used  in  connection  with  the  kitchen  arrangements:  (1)  the 
pantry,  (2)  the  cupboard  filled  with  shelves,  and  (3)  the  cabinet, 
or  dresser.  Of  these  three,  the  pantry  is  by  nature  the  most 
capacious,  the  cupboard  next,  and  the  cabinet  least.  An  analy- 
sis of  these  three  forms  should  enable  one  to  plan  intelligently 
the  storage  space  for  an  individual  kitchen. 

The  pantry  may  be  defined  as  an  enlarged  closet  through 


114  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


which  one  passes  or  into  which  one  steps  instead  of  merely 
reaching.  Its  purpose  is  primarily  to  furnish  more  generous 
storage  space  than  is  provided  by  the  ordinary  cupboard.  There 
are  in  general  two  types  of  pantries,  the  food  pantry  and  the 
pass  pantry.  The  food  pantry  is  intended  primarily  for  the 
storage  of  food  suppHes  that  must  be  kept  cooler  than  the  tem- 


I 


Fig.  38. — A  complete  and  convenient  kitchen  for  any  house. 

perature  of  the  kitchen.  The  pass  or  butler's  pantry  is  used  for 
the  storing  of  china  and  for  the  serving  of  meals.  Often  these 
two  pantries  can  be  combined  into  one  without  breaking  up  the 
organization  of  the  work. 

"Whether  a  food  pantry,  or  a  pass  pantry,  or  both,  or  a  com- 
bination of  the  two  shall  be  planned  for  any  given  house,  de- 
pends on  the  conditions  of  that  special  case.  In  general,  a  food 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN  115 


39. — The  pass  pantry  or 
serving-pantry,  shown  on 
plan  in  Fig.  38. 


pantry  is  always  needed  when  coal  is  used  for  cooking,  because 
the  temperature  of  the  kitchen  then  becomes  so  warm  that 
certain  foods  will  not  keep;  whereas,  when  gas  is  used,  the 
temperature  is  likely  to  be  fairly 
cool  and  even,  which  often  allows 
for  the  food  pantry  to  be  replaced 
by  an  ice-box,  a  dumb-waiter,  or 
both,  placed* directly  in  the  kitchen. 
If  the  ventilation  of  the  room  is 
good,  such  an  arrangement  will  re- 
quire very  little  more  ice  a  year 
than  the  amount  needed  if  the  re- 
frigerator were  placed  in  a  separate 
entry  or  pantry  or  on  an  outer  Ftg 
porch. 

If  the  family  is  large,  however, 
or  the  house  located  at  a  distance  from  the  markets,  a  food 
pantry  is  almost  necessary  to  store  sufficient  supplies.  Often 
one  tier  of  shelves  in  the  food  pantry  is  reserved  for  utensils, 
which  makes  a  separate  cupboard  unnecessary.  Owing  to  the 
nature  of  its  use,  the  food  pantry  should  preferably  be  located 
on  a  northerly  outside  wall  and  should  be  provided  with  a 
window. 

The  pass  pantry  (Fig.  39)  is  for  several  reasons  an  almost 
invaluable  adjunct  to  the  kitchen.  Not  only  does  it  provide 
closet  space  for  china  and  aid  the  smooth  serving  of  meals,  but 
it  also  shuts  off  the  noise  and  the  odors  of  the  kitchen  from  the 
remainder  of  the  house.  Owing  to  the  nature  of  its  use,  the 
pass  pantry  should  be  located  on  the  partition  wall  between 
the  dining-room  and  the  kitchen.  It  is  of  course  desirable, 
but  not  really  necessary,  to  arrange  the  pass  pantry  so  that  it 
touches  the  outer  wall  and  is  provided  with  a  window.  Where 
this  is  impossible,  an  inside  serving-pantry  painted  white  and 
Hghted  through  a  glass  panel  in  the  door  leading  to  the 
kitchen,  will  be  found  to  be  light  and  satisfactory  (Figs.  35 
and  36). 

Sometimes  in  place  of,  or  in  addition  to,  the  pass  pantry,  a 


116 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


china  closet  opening  both  ways  is  built  into  the  wall  between 
the  dining-room  and  the  kitchen  (Fig.  37).  Although  con- 
venient, this  destroys  the  quieting  effect  of  the  pass  pantry, 
as  it  provides  direct  communication  between  the  dining-room 
and  the  kitchen,  and  danger  of  noise  and  odors.  A  simple  and 
direct  arrangement  for  meal  service  is  shown  in  Figs.  35  and  36, 
where  the  pass  pantry  is  used  and  there  is  a  slide  through  to 
the  sink  drain-board.  In  neither  case  are  the  dishes  carried 
across  the  kitchen;  they  are  delivered,  washed,  and  returned 
within  the  shortest  possible  line  of  service. 

Glass  china  closets  and  plate  rails  should  be  used  sparingly 
in  the  design  of  the  dining-room.  The  cupboard — a  closet 
filled  with  shelves — is  a  valuable  place  of  storage  for  pans, 
china,  or  supplies.  If  intelhgently  shelved,  it  can  be  made 
almost  as  capacious  as  a  small  pantry. 

The  arrangement  of  shelving  is  perhaps  the  most  important 
feature  in  the  planning  of  storage  space.  For  the  best  results, 
shelves  should  be  designed  only  wide  enough  to  hold  com- 
fortably one  row  of  supplies,  of  whatever  kind  considered. 
An  arrangement  of  narrow  shelves  spaced  close  together  will 
prove  to  be  more  capacious,  accessible,  and  easy  to  clean  than 
wide  shelves  spaced  far  apart.  From  every  standpoint,  deep 
shelves  are  a  great  mistake,  because  one  must  then  arrange 
for  two  or  three  rows  of  materials  in  order  to  use  the  space. 
It  will  be  found  that  the  area  of  comfortable  reach  is  between 
one  and  six  feet  from  the  floor,  leaving  about  five  feet  of  quickly 
available  space.  For  the  sake  of  efficiency,  this  space  should 
be  as  compactly  shelved  as  is  feasible  for  the  use  intended.  A 
cupboard  provided  with  one  or  two  broad  shelves  below  and  a 
series  of  narrower  shelves  above,  will  hold  a  large  number  of 
articles,  both  effectively  and  accessibly  displayed.  A  cupboard 
with  doors  for  pans,  china,  or  supplies  is  ample  if  made  from 
10  to  15  inches  deep;  a  series  of  open  shelves,  if  made  from  8 
to  10  inches  deep.  Shelves  as  narrow  as  6  inches  are  good  for 
single  rows  of  dry  supplies.  From  7  to  10  inches  between  shelves  w 
is  a  safe  average  distance  for  spacing;  but  in  order  to  make 
the  most  out  of  a  given  space,  it  is  best  to  think  out  carefully 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN 


117 


the  materials  that  are  to  be  stored,  and  to  space  the  shelves 
accordingly. 

The  kitchen  cabinet,  or  dresser,  brings  a  new  element  into 
the  storage  arrangement.  It  introduces  a  work  shelf  at  table 
height,  thereby  dividing  the  storage  into  an  upper  and  a  lower 
part.  The  deep  under  part  may  be  arranged  for  either  closet 
or  drawer  space;  the  upper  part  may  be  arranged  as  a  shallow 
cupboard  for  supplies.  The  most  valuable  form  of  storage  for 
the  lower  section  of  a  cabinet  is  an  arrangement  of  drawers, 
for  these  pull  out  and  expose  their  contents  from  the  top  so 
that  one  need  not  stoop  to  reach  them.  From  four  to  six  well- 
planned  drawers  will  be  adequate  for  the  ordinary  kitchen:  a 
broad,  shallow  drawer  subdivided  for  small  utensils,  such  as 
knives,  forks,  spoons,  egg-beaters,  and  the  like;  a  deeper 
drawer  for  kitchen  linen,  such  as  towels,  clean  cloths  and 
aproils;  and  two  or  three  deep,  narrow  drawers,  or  bins, 
for  storing  flour,  sugars,  and  other  dry  supplies  of  a  bulky 
nature. 

Appropriate  drawer  space  for  the  pass  pantry  is  about  as 
follows:  a  broad,  shallow  drawer  with  subdivisions  for  the 
different  kinds  of  table  silver;  one,  two,  or  three  broad,  shallow 
drawers  for  t^ble  linen;  and  a  deep  drawer  for  miscellaneous 
needs,  containing  perhaps  a  compartment  for  string,  one  for 
wrapping  paper,  and  so  on. 

It  should  be  realized  from  the  foregoing  discussion  that  the 
cabinet,  or  dresser,  is  an  appropriate  form  of  storage  only  when 
table  space  is  needed  also;  that  is,  the  emphasis  is  here  placed 
on  the  w^ork  shelf  rather  than  on  the  storage  capacity.  To  equip 
a  pantry,  whose  function  is  to  furnish  maximum  storage  space, 
with  closets  of  the  dresser  type  is  therefore  a  mistake,  since 
it  furnishes  an  excess  of  table  space  at  t*he  expense  of  cupboard 
room.  An  ordinary  cupboard  or  a  series  of  open  shelves,  sup- 
plemented by  a  small  table  or  work  shelf  with  drawers  below, 
is  a  much  more  appropriate  arrangement  than  to  break  up  the 
most  valuable  part  of  the  storage  space  by  the  intrusion  of  a 
work  shelf.  The  cabinet  form  is  chiefly  valuable  in  the  kitchen 
proper. 


118  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


The  subject  of  kitchen  storage  should  not  be  dismissed  with- 
out emphasizing  the  usefulness  of  the  dumb-waiter.  This  is 
an  almost  indispensable  convenience  when  a  portion  of  the 
cellar  is  used  for  food  supplies.  The  dumb-waiter  will  carry 
wood,  coal,  and  food  between  floors,  and  is  a  great  labor-saver. 
With  such  an  arrangement,  a  cold  part  of  the  cellar  may  be 
substituted  for  the  food  pantry,  even  taking  the  place  of  an 
ice-box  satisfactorily.  One  trip  a  day  to  the  cellar  is  enough 
to  keep  the  Hft  supplied. 

INTERIOR  FINISH 

Any  kitchen  that  is  to  give  full  satisfaction  must  be  sound 
in  arrangement,  sightly  in  appearance,  and  smooth  in  opera- 
tion. Within  reasonable  limits,  anything  that  can  be  devised 
to  enforce  this  triple  standard,  must  be  considered  worthy  of 
trial.  The  demands  of  convenience  will  of  course  always  come 
first,  thereby  deciding  matters  of  arrangement  and  of  manage- 
ment; but  the  less  insistent  needs  for  a  work  place  that  shall 
be  a  fit  and  lovely  spot,  must  also  be  met.  A  clean,  level  floor, 
walls  and  furniture  with  smooth  washable  surfaces,  and  a  pleas- 
ing color  scheme  are  elements  that  eliminate  mental  friction 
and  that  add  the  touch  of  refinement  which  makes  of  any  work 
a  joy. 

Up  to  the  present  time,  no  perfect  flooring  that  is  cheap 
enough  for  use  in  private  homes  has  been  evolved.  The  ma- 
terials most  available  are  wood  and  linoleum.  Of  the  two, 
linoleum  is  thought  to  be  preferable,  because  it  can  be  cemented 
tight  to  the  under  floor,  it  is  practically  crackless,  and  it  is 
quiet  and  easy  to  walk  on.  Plain  brown  battleship"  linoleum 
is  a  reliable,  standard  product,  or  a  modest  inlaid  pattern  may 
be  used  instead.  Experienced  housekeepers  claim  that  linoleum 
with  a  pattern  is  both  more  attractive  and  easier  to  keep  clean 
than  is  the  plain  color.  Although  good  linoleum  is  not  a  cheap 
floor  covering,  its  satisfactory  and  lasting  nature  commends 
it  in  spite  of  its  cost. 

A  maple  or  a  beech  floor  of  narrow  boards  is  the  next  best 
material.   Yellow  pine  and  oak  are  too  open  grained  to  make  a 


PLANNING  THE  HOME  KITCHEN  119 


satisfactory  floor  for  kitchen  use.  Maple  and  beech  are  both 
light  in  color  and  do  not  make  a  very  attractive  floor  under 
hard  use,  but  they  can  be  scrubbed  and  kept  clean.  A  maple 
floor  should  be  finished  by  saturating  it  with  hot  Hnseed  oil 
for  a  number  of  hours ;  then  all  the  extra  oil  should  be  thoroughly 
wiped  up.  In  this  way,  the  wood  is  practically  impregnated 
against  the  absorption  of  grease. 

Kitchen  woodwork  should  be  plain,  with  as  few  grooves  and 
moldings  as  possible.  Wooden  wainscotings  in  kitchen  and 
bathroom  should  never  be  used. 

For  the  interior  finish  of  the  kitchen,  nothing  is  comparable 
to  clean,  light-colored  paint  for  walls  and  woodwork.  Warm 
grays,  buffs,  and  other  soft,  neutral  tints  may  be  used.  Some- 
times walls,  woodwork,  and  furniture  are  all  painted  the  same 
color,  thereby  uniting  the  whole  effect.  Even  ready-made 
cabinets,  tables,  and  refrigerators  are  far  more  attractive  if 
painted  a  light  color. 

A  kitchen  finished  in  stained  oak  or  varnished  pine,  like  the 
remainder  of  the  house,  is  unnecessarily  monotonous.  It 
should  be  differentiated  from  the  other  rooms  in  color  scheme 
and  general  atmosphere.  Light  colors,  mixed  on  a  basis  of 
white,  are  not  only  cheering  and  restful  to  look  at,  but  have 
the  further  advantage  of  reflecting  and  distributing  the  light 
so  that  there  are  no  dark  corners. 

Such  a  room  becomes  also  an  easy  and  economical  one  to 
light  well  at  night.  When  gas  or  oil  lamps  are  used,  light 
colors  are  positively  invaluable  in  the  kitchen.  Each  wall 
then  becomes  in  reality  a  huge  reflecting  surface,  so  that  a  given 
amount  of  light  is  virtually  used  several  times  over.  If  an  elec- 
tric fixture  for  indirect  hghting — an  inverted  metal  bowl — is 
placed  centrally  on  a  white  ceiling,  the  entire  kitchen  is  evenly 
lighted  so  that  there  are  neither  heavy  shadows  nor  dark  cor- 
ners to  impede  the  work.  Naturally,  the  lighter  the  general 
color  scheme,  the  less  the  current  that  will  be  needed.  Light 
colors  may,  therefore,  be  considered  as  having  a  practical,  as 
well  as  an  aesthetic,  value. 


120 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


References 

Child,  Georgie  Boynton.   The  Efficient  Kitchen.  1914. 

Frederick,  Christine.   The  New  Housekeeping.  1913. 

Goodnow,  Ruby  Ross,  and  Adams,  Rayne.   The  Honest  House.  1914. 

White,  Charles  E.,  Jr.  Successful  Houses  and  How  to  Build  Them.  1912. 


PART  II 


HOUSEHOLD  MANAGEMENT 

j  CHAPTER  IV 

CARE  OF  THE  HOUSE 

;  By  Helen  Knowlton 

i  For  convenience  as  well  as  efficient  work  in  housekeeping, 
a  schedule  of  regular  daily,  weekly,  monthly,  and  yearly  proc- 
'  esses  should  be  made  out.  Time  can  then  be  well  planned,  and 
i  a  routine  established  that  simplifies  the  machinery  of  house- 
1  keeping. 

'  CELLAR 

To  keep  the  cellar  in  a  sanitary  condition,  as  much  sunlight 
as  possible  should  be  admitted.  The  windows  should  be  made 
as  large  as  possible  and  be  on  opposite  sides  to  insure  cross- 
ventilation.  If  the  house  is  banked  for  the  winter,  dry  clean 
material  should  be  used  and  the  windows  should  not  be  covered. 
If  the  cellar  floor  is  of  concrete  and  is  proof  against  dampness, 
it  can  be  washed.  The  cellar  walls  should  be  whitewashed  once 
or  twice  a  year.  Whitewash  is  a  disinfectant.  If  the  cellar 
walls  admit  moisture,  it  is  recommended  to  wash  them  with  a 
dilute  solution  of  hydrochloric  acid  (1  part  acid  and  5  parts 
water) ,  and  then  apply  a  plaster  of  oil-mixed  mortar. 

A  cellar  containing  a  heating  plant  should  be  divided  into 
compartments.  By  constructing  one  of  these  compartments 
with  an  insulating  wall  of  hollow  tile,  a  cool  room  for  vegetables 
may  be  secured.  It  is  sometimes  best  to  construct  an  outside 
cellar  for  such  storage  (page  584) . 

121 


122 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


KITCHEN 

Sink. 

A  sink  without  running  water  is  unjustifiable  for  the  busy 
housewife.  A  drain  connection  with  a  trap  and  a  sanitary  dis- 
posal outside  for  wastes  should  be  provided.  The  best  kind  of 
sink  and  the  proper  height  for  placing  it  are  discussed  on  page 
108. 

After  each  dishwashing,  the  sink  should  be  washed  with  hot 
soapy  water,  and  the  sink-trap  flushed  with  a  generous  supply 
of  hot  water.  This  trap  must  be  cleaned  occasionally  with  kero- 
sene. At  least  one  gallon  of  hot  water  should  be  poured  down 
and  while  the  pipe  is  still  warm,  one-half  cup  of  kerosene  poured 
in.  This  should  stand  for  at  least  five  minutes  and  then  the 
trap  may  be  flushed  with  a  second  gallon  of  hot  water.  A  solu- 
tion of  washing-soda  should  not  be  used  since  it  tends  to  form 
a  hard  soap  with  the  grease  and  to  stop  up  the  pipe.  Kerosene 
forms  no  soap,  but  simply  an  emulsion. 

The  sink  should  be  kept  so  far  as  possible  for  purposes  con- 
nected only  with  the  preparation  of  food  and  the  cleaning  of 
dishes. 

Walls  and  woodwork. 

Painted  walls  and  woodwork  are  most  easily  cleaned.  They 
may  be  wiped  with  a  broom  covered  with  a  soft  cloth  for  fre- 
quent cleaning.  A  long-handled  brush  is  better  than  a  broom. 
Occasionally  they  may  be  scrubbed  with  a  soft  brush,  warm 
water  and  borax,  and  rinsed  before  being  dried. 

Floors. 

Floor  finishes  best  adapted  for  the  kitchen  are  discussed  on 
page  117.  A  mop-wringer  is  a  great  convenience  in  the  work  of 
mopping  the  kitchen  floor. 

Dishwashing. 

Since  the  aim  of  dishwashing  is  to  clean  the  dishes  and  to  kill 
the  bacteria  that  may  be  present  by  the  use  of  soapsuds  and 
scalding  water,  special  care  should  be  taken  in  case  of  ton- 
silitis,  colds,  and  other  infectious  diseases.    Unless  the  dishes 


CARE  OF  THE  HOUSE 


123 


of  the  patient  are  boiled,  the  germs  may  infect  the  whole 
family. 

Kitchen  towels  and  cups. 

The  roller  towel  for  family  use  as  well  as  the  common  drink- 
ing-cup  must  be  discarded,  if  the  health  of  the  family  is  to  be 
safeguarded. 

Kitchen  dresses. 

Washable  work  dresses  are  the  only  kind  suitable  for  wearing 
in  a  kitchen.  They  have  been  proved  to  be  economical  of 
both  money  and  time.  They  may  be  made  of  various  inexpen- 
sive and  satisfactory  materials  (page  368).  Short  sleeves  and 
turndown  collars  or  no  collars  at  all  add  to  the  comfort  of  the 
worker.    The  design  should  be  the  simplest  possible. 

LIVING-ROOM  AND  DINING-ROOM 

The  window  shades  of  the  living-room  and  the  dining-room 
should  be  raised  more  than  halfway  to  let  in  the  sunshine, 
and  the  windows  should  be  opened  frequently  to  air  out  and 
to  keep  the  temperature  below  70^  F. 

SLEEPING-ROOMS 

The  ideal  sleeping-room  is  the  outdoor  porch  with  only  cur- 
tains for  protection.  An  indoor  sleeping-room  should  have 
simple  furnishings.  Unnecessary  draperies  collect  dust  and 
exclude  air  and  sunshine.  The  floor  should  be  bare  save  for  a 
few  small,  easily  cleaned  rugs.  The  wall  paper  should  be  of  a 
soft  restful  color,  either  plain  or  with  small  inconspicuous  figures. 

An  iron  bed  is  better  than  a  wooden  one  because  it  can  be 
more  easily  cleaned.  A  mattress  is  more  healthful  than  a 
feather  bed,  because  the  body  is  not  so  enveloped  as  to  hinder 
the  escape  of  waste  matter  from  the  skin.  The  bed  covering 
should  be  warm  but  light.  Several  light-weight  blankets  or 
comforts  are  better  than  fewer  heavy  ones. 

BATHROOM 

Absolute  cleanliness  and  abundant  ventilation  are  essential 
in  a  sanitary  bathroom.   Kerosene  applied  with  a  special  brush 


124 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


or  cloth  to  the  bathtub,  bowl,  and  toilet  and  washed  off  with 
a  good  soap  solution  will  solve  most  of  the  difficulties  of  cleaning. 
All  brushes  or  cloths  used  in  cleaning  the  bathroom  should  be 
thoroughly  washed  in  clean  soap-suds,  rinsed  in  hot  watel*, 
and  dried  in  the  sunlight  each  time  after  being  used.  Occasional 
flushing  of  the  toilet  with  a  strong  solution  of  washing-soda  is 
desirable. 

Faucets,  door  knobs,  and  all  parts  of  the  toilet  ever  touched 
by  the  hands,  as  well  as  the  usually  cleaned  parts,  should  be 
washed  occasionally  with  a  solution  of  some  good  disinfectant, 
such  as  creolin,  lysol,  or  alcohol. 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  SWEEPING  AND  DUSTING 

Dust  should  be  avoided,  since  it  irritates  the  throat  and  may 
carry  germs.  If  possible  a  vacuum  sweeper  should  be  used.  If  a 
broom  is  used  it  should  be  dampened,  or  bits  of  moist  paper 
or  some  commercial  substance  for  sweeping  should  be  sprinkled 
over  the  floor.  In  sweeping,  short  strokes  should  be  taken 
away  from  the  person.  Rugs  which  can  be  cleaned  outdoors 
are  generally  preferable  to  carpets. 

Dustless  mops  and  dustless  dusters  are  sanitary  labor-savers. 
They  can  be  made  at  home  by  dipping  the  mop  or  the  duster  in 
a  solution  of  some  vegetable  oil,  such  as  linseed  or  cottonseed 
oil,  in  gasoline  or  other  solvent,  about  one  tablespoon  of  oil  to 
one  pint  of  gasoline  being  used.  There  should  be  no  fire  in  the 
room  where  the  gasohne  is  used.  The  mop  or  duster  should  be 
hung  outdoors  until  the  gasoline  has  evaporated.  The  oil  will 
be  evenly  distributed  in  this  way.  The  duster  may  be  washed 
once  or  twice  before  it  is  necessary  to  redip  it  in  the  oil 
solution. 

REPAIR  KIT 

A  well-stocked  repair  kit  should  be  a  part  of  the  equipment 
of  every  household.  It  should  be  placed  in  a  convenient  loca- 
tion and  should  contain:  hammer,  screwdriver,  plane,  pliers. 


CARE  OF  THE  HOUSE 


125 


awl,  oil-can,  saw,  soldering  outfit,  knife  sharpener,  twine,  shears, 
and  such  tacks,  nails,  screws,  hooks,  and  wire  as  are  most  often 
in  demand. 


SOME  SPECIAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  CLEANING  * 

Cleaning  closet 

In  every  house  there  should  be  a  cupboard  or  a  closet  set 
aside  for  cleaning  purposes,  ''with  a  place  for  everything  and 
everything  in  its  place.' ^  The  cleaning  materials  and  apparatus 
listed  under  the  following  directions  are  not  expensive  and 
greatly  simplify  the  cleaning  problem.  Shelves  and  racks  should 
be  provided  for  holding  all  apparatus  and  materials  needed, 
and  as  far  as  possible  labels  should  show  where  each  brush, 
broom,  pail,  or  bottle  is  to  be  returned. 

The  following  list  of  materials  and  utensils  should  be  included 
in  the  housekeeper's  cleaning  kit: 


Alcohol 
Alum 
Ammonia 
Bath  brick 
Black  lead 
Borax 

Furniture  polish 
Kerosene 
Light  oil 
Olive  oil 


Apron,  stove 

Carpet,  piece  old  brussels 

Chamois  skin  or  leather 

Cheese-cloth 

Cloth,  scrub 

Cloth,  soft 

Flannel,  canton 


Cleaning  materials 

ParaflSn 
Rottenstone 
.  Salt 
Soap 

Turpentine 
Vinegar 
Washing-soda 
Wax  (floor) 
Whiting 

Cleaning  articles 

Flannel,  heavy 
Flannel,  waxing 
Flannelette  for  dusters 
Gloves,  rubber 
Mitt,  for  kerosene 

Waste,  cotton  (cotton  waste  may  be  bought 
at  any  hardware  store) 


*  Mary  Urie  Watson.  Rules  for  cleaning, 
the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  23. 


Cornell  Reading-Course  for 


126 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Boiler,  for  clothes 
Brush,  closet 
Brush,  cornice 
Brush,  scrub 
Brush,  soft 
Brush,  trap 
Brush,  weighted 
Brush,  wire  (for  sink) 
Carpet  sweeper 
Dauber 
Dish-pans 
Funnels 
Ironing  tables 

To  dean  lamps. 

The  apparatus  necessary  for  cleaning  lamp  is  an  old  news- 
paper, the  kerosene  can,  a  damp  flannelette  duster,  lamp  scissors, 
and  a  dry  towel. , 

1.  Carry  the  lamps  to  a  sink,  or  to  a  table  convenient  to  the  sink. 
2.  Spread  the  paper  and  place  everything  on  it.  3.  Wash  and  dry  the 
lamp  chimneys  as  if  they  were  tumblers.  4.  Open  up  the  lamp  burner, 
screw  up  the  wick,  trim  off  all  the  char  with  the  scissors,  and  screw  down 
the  wick  34  inch  below  the  brass.  Round  wicks  must  have  the  char  rubbed 
off  with  the  duster.  5.  Soap  one  corner  of  the  duster  and  rub  carefully 
every  part  of  the  brass  burner;  if  necessary,  polish  (see  copper,  page  232). 
6.  Fill  each  lamp  nearly  full  of  kerosene.  See  that  the  burner  is  properly 
screwed  on,  and  wipe  the  body  of  the  lamp  carefully.  7.  Put  on  the  chim- 
neys and  set  the  lamps  in  their  places.  8.  Wash  the  scissors  and  duster 
and  hang  the  duster  to  dry.  Gather  all  trimmings  in  the  paper  and  burn 
both  trimmings  and  paper.   They  are  not  safe  to  leave  around. 

To  oil  a  kitchen  stove, 

1.  Put  a  little  light  oil  on  a  wad  of  cotton  waste  and  rub  it  on  all  the 
iron  parts  of  the  stove.  2.  Rub  it  off  with  fresh  waste,  an  old  cloth,  or 
some  crumpled  paper.  3.  Polish  it  with  a  dry  flannelette  or  woolen  cloth 
until  all  oiliness  is  gone.  4.  Burn  the  waste,  old  cloth,  or  paper  because 
oily  waste  and  oily  cloths  are  a  frequent  cause  of  fire  through  spontaneous 
combustion.    5.  Wash  out  the  polishing  cloth. 

To  dean  a  gas  stove  thoroughly. 

This  process  requires  the  following  apparatus :  A  stove  apron, 
a  few  old  newspapers,  a  wire  sink-brush,  a  monkey  wrench^ 


Cleaning  utensils 
Irons 

Monkey  wrench 
Mop,  cloth 
Mop,  string 
Saucepans  (old) 
Scissors  (for  lamp) 
Step  ladder 
Tub 

Tub,  fiber 
Washboard 
Whisk-broom 
Wringer 


CARE  OF  THE  HOUSE 


127 


whisk,  dustpan  and  brush,  a  sink  towel,  several  pieces  of  old 
cloth,  soap  and  washing-soda,  and  the  oil  bottle. 

1.  Put  on  the  apron  and  spread  the  papers  on  the  table.  2.  Turn  off 
the  gas  at  the  main  supply  pipe  with  the  monkey  wrench.  3.  Fill  a  large 
dish-pan  with  strong,  hot  soap-suds,  put  into  it  to  soak  the  dripping-pan 
and  rack  and  any  movable  nickel  pieces  of  the  stove.  4.  Fill  a  tub  half 
full  of  strong,  hot  soda-water.  Put  the  drop  tray  in  the  bottom  to  soak, 
and  on  top  of  it  put  the  top  grates,  doors,  and  all  movable  black  parts  of 
the  stove.  5.  Brush  out  both  ovens  and  all  parts  of  the  stove  frame. 
6.  Wet  one  of  the  old  cloths  in  hot  water,  rub  it  on  the  soap,  and  wash  off 
the  stove.  Dry  it,  if  necessary,  wdth  an  old  cloth.  Then  oil  the  black  parts 
very  lightly  with  the  oil  and  polish  it  off  thoroughly  with  another  old  dry 
cloth.  7.  Remove  the  pieces  from  the  soda-water,  rinse  them  in  the  sink 
in  fresh  warm  water,  and  scrub  the  doors  and  other  black  pieces  with  the 
wire  brush.  Dry  them  off,  oil  and  polish  them,  and  put  them  back  on  the 
stove.  8.  Let  the  dirty  water  out  of  the  sink,  transfer  the  nickel  pieces, 
dripping-pan,  and  rack  to  the  sink,  pour  in  the  soapy  water,  scrub  the 
pieces  thoroughly,  dry  them  with,  the  sink  towel,  and  return  them  to  place. 
9.  Scrub,  rinse,  dry,  and  return  to  place  the  drop  tray.  10.  Oil  the.  stove 
after  all  the  parts  are  put  together.  11.  Burn  the  old  cloths  and  wash 
the  sink  out  carefully.  It  is  especially  necessary  to  be  careful  about  burn- 
ing oily  cloths  that  are  not  washed  after  using,  because  they  have  been 
known  to  take  fire  spontaneously  and  are  therefore  dangerous  when  tucked 
into  corners  out  of  sight. 

To  dean  windows. 

A  high  stepladder,  fiber  tub,  damp  flannelette  duster,  scrub 
cloth,  soft  linen  towel,  chamois  leather,  ammonia,  and  warm 
water  are  necessary  to  clean  windows. 

1.  Fill  the  tub  half  full  of  warm  water  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  am- 
monia or  a  few  drops  of  kerosene.  2.  Carry  the  ladder  to  the  window,  roll 
up  the  shade,  and  take  it  down.  Unroll  it  on  the  floor  or  over  a  table, 
then  roll  it  up,  dusting  both  sides  as  it  rolls.  Stand  it  aside,  marking  to 
which  window  it  belongs  if  more  than  one  is  being  cleaned.  3.  Dust  the 
window,  especially  the  surrounding  woodwork,  with  the  damp  flannelette 
duster.  4.  Wash  the  glass,  especially  corners,  and  dry  with  the  linen  towel. 
5.  Polish  with  the  chamois  leather.  6.  Replace  the  shade,  testing  carefully, 
and  make  sure  the  spring  works  properly.  7.  Wash  out  the  tub,  towel, 
cloth,  and  duster.  Hang  the  cloths  to  dry  and  put  everything  else  away. 
8.  If  chamois  leather  is  not  available,  use  crumpled  newspaper.  9.  The 
following  mixture  may  be  used  instead  of  ammonia  and  water,  but  the 
resulting  white  dust  must  be  carefully  wiped  up:  1  tablespoonful  pre- 
cipitated whiting;  2  tablespoonfuls  household  ammonia. 


128 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


To  clean  a  piano  case. 

A  bottle  of  olive  oil,  a  bottle  of  alcohol,  some  new  or  perfectly 
clean  canton  flannel,  a  perfectly  clean  chamois  leather,  and  a 
basin  of  water  will  be  needed  to  clean  a  piano. 

1'.  Wet  a  small  piece  of  the  flannel  and  drop  on  it  a  few  drops  of  oil. 
2.  Rub,  with  the  wet  flannel,  a  small  section  of  the  case  at  a  time,  and 
immediately  rub  it  thoroughly  with  a  dry  piece  of  the  flannel,  before 
proceeding  to  a  fresh  section.  3.  Polish  it  finally  with  the  chamois  or  a  fresh 
piece  of  the  flannel.  Rub  with  the  grain  of  the  wood,  and  breathe  on  it 
occasionally  to  help  remove  any  oiliness  that  may  remain.  A  very  little 
flour  rubbed  with  the  grain  of  the  wood  will  also  help  to  remove  oiliness, 
but  its  use  should  not  be  necessary.  4.  Wash  the  piano  keys  with  a  corner 
of  the  flannel  wet  with  alcohol.  Be  careful,  however,  to  avoid  touching 
the  wood  with  the  alcohol,  as  it  will  ruin  the  varnish. 

To  wax  a  floor. 

In  waxing  floors,  the  following  apparatus  is  necessary:  a 
can  of  floor  wax,  a  waxing  flannel,  a  half  yard  of  heavy  flannel 
or  a  piece  of  old  brussels  carpet,  and  a  weighted  brush. 

1.  The  floor  must  be  clean  and  free  from  dust.  2.  If  necessary,  stand 
the  wax  can  in  a  dish  of  hot  water  in  order  to  soften  the  wax.  3.  Rub 
the  waxing  flannel  on  the  wax  and  put  a  very  thin,  even  layer  of  wax  on 
the  floor.  It  is  better  to  rub  along  the  boards  than  across.  Start  at  the 
corner  farthest  from  the  door,  and  do  not  step  on  the  waxed  part.  4.  Put 
away  the  wax  and  flannel,  and  keep  off  the  floor  for  at  least  three  hours. 
The  polishing  can  be  done  after  standing  an  hour,  but  is  more  work. 
5.  Fold  the  piece  of  heavy  flannel  twice,  making  four  layers,  put  it  down 
on  the  floor,  put  the  weighted  brush  on  it,  and  rub  each  board,  with  the 
grain,  until  it  shines.  The  piece  of  carpet  makes  an  excellent  substitute 
for  the  flannel.  The  polishing  can  be  done  on  the  hands  and  knees  without 
a  weighted  brush,  but  is  much  harder  work. 


CHAPTER  V 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE 

The  modem  household  should  be  equipped  with  well-selected 
measuring  appliances  which  can  be  intelhgently  used  not  only 
to  help  standardize  the  daily  housework  and  living  conditions 
in  the  home  but  also  to  insure  and  promote  just  dealing  in  the 
community.  The  exact  value  of  units  used  must  be  clearly 
known.  Since  the  use  of  the  metric  system  (page  167)  is  for- 
tunately becoming  more  widespread,  future  generations  may 
escape  the  problems  arising  from  the  vagueness  and  ambiguity 
of  the  systems  now  in  common  use  in  this  country.* 

MEASUREMENTS  FOR  COMMODITIES 

Measuring  apparatus  for  household  commodities  should  be 
tested  and  sealed  by  the  local  sealer  of  weights  and  measures, 
at  the  time  of  purchase. 

Weighing  scale, 

A  weighing  scale  should  have  a  capacity  of  10  to  30  pounds 
or  more,  and  should  be  graduated  to  1  ounce  or  less.  Among 
good  types  on  the  market  are  the  hanging-pan  spring  scale, 
the  counter  beam  scale,  and  the  beam  scale  of  the  steelyard 
type  designed  to  hang  from  a  bracket.  The  cheap  scale  in 
which  the  commodity  pan  stands  above  the  spring,  is  likely 
to  be  inaccurate. 

To  use  the  scale  properly,  the  following  precautions  should 
be  observed:  (1)  Handle  it  carefully,  and  keep  it  clean  and  dry. 
(2)  Keep  it  in  balance.  A  properly  constructed  scale  will  rarely 
get  out  of  balance,  but  the  proper  way  of  adjusting  a  particular 

*The  following  material  in  this  chapter,  with  the  exception  of  the  tables 
indicated,  is  condensed  from  Measurements  for  the  Household,  Circ.  55, 
published  by  the  Bur.  of  Standards,  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Commerce. 

129 


130 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


kind  of  scale  should  be  learned.  (3)  Keep  the  eye  squarely  in 
front  of  the  point  of  the  scale  that  is  being  read.  (4)  Do  not 
weigh  a  commodity  in  cardboard  or  other  heavy  covering  with- 
out weighing  the  covering  separately  and  deducting  its  weight 
from  the  total  weight. 

Liquid  measures. 

The  supply  of  liquid  measures  should  include  a  quart,  a  pint, 
and  a  half -pint  measure,  and  a  4-ounce  glass  graduate  subdivided 
to  1  dram  or  less  for  measuring  small  quantities  of  liquids  and 
determining  the  errors  in  larger  quantities.  The  measures 
should  be  cylindrical  or  conical  with  the  top  diameter  smaller 
than  the  bottom,  and  made  of  metal,  enamelware,  composition, 
or  similar  and  suitable  material.  They  should  be  strong  and 
rigid  enough  to  withstand  ordinary  usage. 

To  test  the  quantity  of  a  liquid  as  delivered,  the  following 
directions  will  be  useful:  Pour  the  liquid  into  the  measure. 
If  it  does  not  fill  the  measure,  pour  it  out  and  fill  the  measure 
with  water  to  the  same  point  that  the  purchased  liquid  reached. 
This  can  be  done  by  observing  the  wet  ring  left  around  the 
measure.  Then  put  a  definite  quantity  of  water  into  the  gradu- 
ate, and  complete  the  filling  of  the  measure.  The  difference 
between  the  quantity  of  liquid  remaining  in  the  graduate  and 
the  original  quantity  put  in  is  the  shortage.  If  the  quantity 
of  liquid  ordered  more  than  fills  the  test  measure,  the  check  for 
error  is  made  on  the  last  portion  poured  into  the  measure. 

To  avoid  mistakes  in  reading  cone  graduates,  it  should  be 
noted  that  these  are  sometimes  more  finely  subdivided  at  the 
base  than  at  the  top. 

A  graduate  should  be  held  level  in  filling  it  or  reading  it. 
It  should  be  read  at  the  main  surface  of  the  liquid,  not  at  the 
point  to  which  the  small  amount  of  liquid  creeps  on  the  sides 
of  the  glass. 

Dry  measures, 

A  nest  of  dry  measures  holding  from  bushel  to  1  quart 
may  be  necessary,  although  the  growing  tendency  is  to  sell  dry 
commodities  by  weight.    The  weight  of  a  bushel  of  certain 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  131 


common  dry  commodities,  as  fixed  by  law  in  certain  states,  is 
given  on  page  162.  Dry  measures  should  be  of  metal,  or  of 
well-varnished  wood  with  a  metal  band  around  the  top,  or  of 
some  similar  and  suitable  material.  They  should  preferably 
be  cylindrical.  If  they  are  conical,  the  top  diameter  should 
exceed  the  bottom  diameter  by  an  amount  not  greater  than 
10  per  cent  of  the  bottom  diameter.  The  diameters  should  in 
no  case  be  less  than  the  following: 

For  }/2  bushel  13^4  inches 

For  1  peck  ICV s  inches 

For  ^2  peck   8V2  inches 

For  two  quart?)   6^/8  inches 

For  1  quart   5^8  inches 

For  1  pint   4  inches 

Length  measure. 

For  measuring  length,  a  yardstick  and  a  tape  3  or  6  feet  in 
length  are  recommended. 

TEMPERATURE 

The  following  thermometers  should  be  a  part  of  the  equip- 
ment of  every  household : 

Room-temperature  thermometer. 

To  give  a  fair  measure  of  the  temperature  of  a  room,  a  ther- 
mometer should  be  placed  about  four  feet  from  the  floor,  away 
from  a  stove,  radiator,  or  ventilation  flue  and  not  on  an  out- 
side wall.  Under  certain  conditions  fifteen  minutes  or  more  may 
be  required  to  show  the  correct  temperature  if  a  thermometer 
is  moved. 

Outdoor  thermometer. 

To  indicate  the  real  temperature  of  outdoor  air  as  given  in 
the  weather  reports,  a  thermometer  must  be  mounted  in  a 
specially  well  ventilated  house  or  box  four  feet  from  the  ground 
and  so  built  as  to  shield  the  thermometer  entirely  from  direct 
sunlight.  Nearly  the  same  results  may  be  secured  by  placing 
a  thermometer  in  an  open  shady  place,  possibly  at  the  north  of 
a  building,  several  feet  away  from  the  walls  and  four  feet  from 
the  ground. 


132 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


125- 

lao- 
115  - 
no  - 
105  - 


^5- 
25- 


-15- 


-257 

-248 
-2^9 
-250 


-158 
-145- 


Clinical  thermometer. 

The  usual  clinical  thermometer  is  a  '^maxi- 
mum'' thermometer,  that  is,  the  mercury  in 
the  stem  registers  the  highest  temperature 
reached  and  does  not  return  when  the  ther- 
mometer is  cooled,  but  must  be  shaken  back 
before  another  temperature  can  be  measured. 
For  this  reason  the  thermometer  may  be 
removed  from  the  mouth  and  read  later. 

The  usual  type  of  ^'lens-fronf  thermome- 
ter is  so  made  that  the  front  of  the  glass  tube 
acts  as  a  lens  magnifying  the  width  of  the 
mercury  thread.  To  read  such  a  thermome- 
ter, it  should  be  held  in  the  hand  and  turned 
until  the  mercury  column  suddenly  appears 
magnified  to  considerable  width.  This  will 
occur  when  the  clear  corner  of  the  triangular 
tube  is  directly  in  front.  The  reading  can 
then  be  made,  remembering  that  the  smallest 
divisions  of  the  scale  are  usually  0°.2.  The 
mercury  should  then  be  shaken  back  into  the 
bulb  by  holding  the  thermometer  firmly  be- 
tween thumb  and  forefinger,  bulb  outward, 
and  giving  a  few  very  brisk  shakes  from  the 
wrisL,  or  with  the  arm,  and  then  seeing  that 
the  thermometer  reads  as  low  as  96°  F.  or 
35°.5  C.  The  thermometer  should  never  be 
tapped  against  a  hard  substance,  as  this  is 
almost  certain  to  break  the  bulb. 

Bath  thermometers. 

Bath  thermometers  usually  have  their 
scales  printed  on  paper  or  milk  glass  contained 
in  a  large  glass  tube  which  incloses  the  ther- 
mometer capillary.  They  are  often  protected 
by  a  wooden  cage  to  prevent  breakage.  When 
thus  protected,  it  may  take  some  time  to  ob- 

FiG.  40. — Comparison  of  Centigrade  and  Fahrenheit  scales  for  measuring  tem- 
perature. 


-11; 

-io4 

I 

-86 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  133 


tain  the  real  temperature  of  the  water  unless  the  thermometer 
is  kept  moving.  The  temperatures  in  different  parts  of  a  tub  of 
water  may  differ  many  degrees  unless  the  water  has  been  well 
mixed. 

A  bath  thermometer  should  be  read  while  it  is  in  the  water 
because  the  readings  will  change  very  rapidly  when  the  ther- 
mometer is  taken  out  of  warm  water. 

Milk  thermometers. 

Milk  thermometers  are  useful  in  measuring  the  temperature 
of  milk  or  cream,  for  the  control  of  pasteurizing  milk,  churning 
cream,  whipping  cream,  and  the  like.  These  processes  are  best 
carried  out  at  definite  temperatures.  Some  of  these  milk  ther- 
mometers are  purposely  made  large  and  light  so  that  they  will 
float,  making  their  use  more  convenient. 

Candy-making  thermometers. 

These  thermometers  are  for  use  in  making  candies,  boiling 
sirups,  and  the  like.  The  thermometer  should  not  be  too  near 
the  bottom  or  the  sides  of  the  kettle,  nor  yet  should  it  be  at 
the  point  where  boiling  is  most  violent.  Some  of  the  tempera- 
tures at  which  boiling  sirups  should  be  removed  from  the  fire 
to  make  different  kinds  of  candies,  as  well  as  other  useful  in- 
formation as  to  temperature,  are  given  in  Table  II. 

A  candy-making  thermometer  may  be  tested  for  accuracy 
as  follows:  First  find  the  boiling  point  for  any  altitude  from 
Table  I  (thus  at  2,000  feet  elevation  the  average  temperature  is 
208°  F.  or  98°  C.) ;  then  hold  the  thermometer  with  its  bulb  well 
immersed  in  a  dish  of  briskly  boiling  pure  water,  and  read  the 
highest  temperature  reached.  If  this  differs  from  that  found  in 
the  table,  the  thermometer  is  too  high  or  too  low  by  this  dif- 
ference. 

Oven  thermometers. 

Various  kinds  of  thermometers  are  used  for  reading  oven 
temperatures.  One  kind  is  placed  in  the  oven  door  and  has  a 
dial  with  a  hand  for  indicating  the  temperatures.  These  ther- 
mometers may  not  indicate  the  true  temperature  of  the  oven 
because  the  door  never  becomes  as  hot  as  the  remainder  of  the 


134 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


oven,  and  often  takes  much  longer  in  heating  up.  However, 
since  temperatures  sometimes  need  not  be  known  more  accu- 
rately than  within  10  or  20  degrees,  such  thermometers  are  use- 
ful and  are  more  convenient  than  those  which  have  to  be  hung 
inside  the  oven.  One  kind  of  thermometer  which  reads  up  to 
550°  F.,  is  made  to  screw  into  a  special  opening  in  the  range. 
It  may  be  hung  inside  the  oven,  but  in  this  case  the  door  must  be 
opened  or  a  window  provided  in  order  to  read  it. 

Tests  for  thermometers. 

Household  thermometers  from  reliable  makers  are  usually 
correct  to  within  1  or  2  degrees  at  room  temperature  and  below, 
although  sometimes  they  are  several  degrees  in  error. 

Any  thermometer  which  has  32°  F.  or  0°  C.  on  its  scale  may  be 
easily  tested  at  this  point  by  scraping  a  tumbler  full  of  clear  ice, 
saturating  this  with  ice-cold,  pure  water,  and  placing  the  ther- 
mometer bulb  in  this  mixture  until  it  reads  as  low  as  it  will 
go.  Clean  snow  saturated  with  water  may  also  be  used,  but 
if  the  snow  is  left  dry  it  may  be  much  colder  than  32°  F.  If  the 
thermometer  tested  reads  32°  F.  or  0°  C,  it  is  correct  at  this 
point.  If  higher  or  lower  than  this,  it  is  too  high  or  too  low  by 
the  amount  of  the  difference  observed.  Such  a  test  is  reliable 
to  a  tenth  of  a  degree  if  carefully  made. 

For  other  temperatures  there  are  no  tests  which  are  quite  as 
convenient  or  reliable  as  for  the  ice  point.  The  steam  point, 
212°  F.  or  100°  C,  is  used  in  the  testing  of  thermometers  in  the 
laboratory,  but  the  steam  temperature  depends  on  the  baro- 
metric reading,  which  varies  with  the  weather,  and  with  the 
altitude  of  the  place  where  the  water  is  boiled.  For  places 
within  500  feet  of  sea  level,  the  temperature  shown  by  a  ther- 
mometer immersed  in  a  steam  bath  over  briskly  boiling  water, 
or  in  the  water  itself  if  the  same  is  pure,  should  be  between 
210°  and  212°  F.,  or  between  99°,  and  100°  C.  For  higher  alti- 
tudes the  temperature  will  be  lower,  as  may  be  seen  from 
Table  I.  The  temperatures  given  in  this  table  are  averages  only 
and  variations  of  1°  F.  or  0°.6.  C.  may  take  place  from  day  to 
day  because  of  changes  in  the  barometric  pressure. 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  135 


If  a  tested  clinical  thermometer  is  at  hand,  a  fairly  accm^ate 
test  at  about  100°  F.  may  be  made.  A  thermometer  which  is 
correct  at  the  ice  point  and  at  about  100°  F.  will  probably  be 
correct  at  other  temperatures.  Clinical  thermometers  should 
be  tested  by  a  competent  testing  laboratory,  such  as  that  at  the 
United  States  Bureau  of  Standards. 


TABLE  I. — Boiling  Point  of  Water  and  Average  Barometer 
Readings  for  Different  Altitudes 


AUitude 

Temperat  ure  of  steam 

Corrected  barometer 
Average  readings 

Degrees  F. 

Degrees  C. 

Inches 

Millimeters 

Sea  level  

212.0 

100.0 

29.9 

760 

2000  feet  

208.3 

97.9 

27.8 

706 

4000  feet  

204.6 

95.9 

25.8 

655 

6000  feet  

201.1 

93.9 

24.0 

610 

8000  feet  

197.6 

92.0 

22.3 

566 

10,000  feet  

194.0 

90.0 

20.7 

526 

TABLE  II. — LsEFUL  Te.mperatures 


Mercury  freezes  

Freezing  cold  storage  

Water  freezes  

Danger  of  frost  

Household  refrigerator,  proper  temperature  

Churning  

Gymnasium,  or  rooms  where  occupants  are  actively 
engaged  in  physical  work  or  exercise  

Ripening  of  cream  

Rooms  where  occupants  are  not  exercising  

Normal  temperature  of  the  human  body  determined  by 

thermometer  under  the  tongue  

Incubator  temperature  


degrees 
^enti- 
jrade 


Degrees 
Fahren- 
heit 


-39 

—38 

-18 

0 

0 

+32 

0 

32 

+4 

39 

1 

45 

113 

55 

J 

52 

[17 

62 

13 

55 

|18 

65 

121 

70 

120 

68 

[21 

70 

37 

98.6 

39.4 

103 

136  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


TABLE  II. — Continued 


Degrees 
Centi' 

Degrees 
Fahren- 

grade 

heit 

High  fever,  temperature  measured  as  above  

40.6 

105 

Pasteurizing  milk  

63 

145 

Pasteurizing  milk  (flash  process)  

71 

160 

Water  boils  at  normal  pressure  

100 

212 

Plain  sugar  sirups: 

For  sirup,  11  pounds  to  the  gallon  

104 

219 

|113 

236 

For  fondant  candies 

|ll5 

240 

For  fudge  and  other  candies  of  like  nature  

115 

240 

For  taffy  and  like  hard  candies  to  be  pulled  .... 

149 

300 

For  clear  brittle  candies,  peanut  brittle,  etc  

154 

310 

For  almond  and  walnut  brittle  

157 

315 

Melting  point  of  common  soft  solder  

185 

365 

Oven  temperatures  for  baking: 

Custards,  meringues,  pies,  puddings,  etc  

121 
177 

250 
350 

Sponge  cake,  bread,  gingerbread,  plain  cake,  and 

177 

350 

cookies  

204 

400 

Parker  House  rolls,  popovers,  and  biscuits  

204 
232 

400 
450 

Biscuit  and  pastry  

232 
287 

450 
550 

Melting  point  of  lead  

327 

621 

Melting  point  of  aluminum  

659 

1218 

TABLE  III. — A  Table  of  Temperatures  * 


Degrees 

Degrees 

Process 

Centigrade 

Fahrenheit 

Freezing  of  fruit  ices  (temperature  of 

medium)  

—5  to  — S 

23  to  18 

Freezing  of  water  

0 

32 

Whipping  of  cream  

3  to  10 

37  to  50 

Butter-making.  

15  to  16 

60 

Raising  of  bread   (temperature  of 

room)   

26  to  40 

79  to  104 

*  Williams,  Anna  W.,  and  Gray,  Cora  E.,  Cooking  Temperatures,  Bull. 
47,  Univ.  of  111. 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  137 


TABLE  111.— Continued 

Degrees 

Degrees 

Process 

Centigrade 

Fahrenheit 

Cheese-making  

37  to  60 

98 . 6  to  140 

(Depends  upon  acidity) 

Coagulation  of  albumin  

Begins  56;  completes  71 

133  to  160 

Simmering  of  water  

82  to  99 

180  to  210 

Soft  custards  

82  to  84 

179  to  183 

Double  boiler,  top  part  

89  to  94 

192  to  201 

Boiling  water  at  sea  level  

100 

212 

Jellies  (boiling  point  of  water  100°  C.) 

103 

185 

Sugar  cookery  (boiling  point  of  water 

100°  C.) 

Fondant  

113 

235 

Fudge  frosting,  boiled  

111 

232 

1  egg  white  to  1  cup  sugar . 

113  to  115 

235  to  239 

2  egg  whites  to  1  cup  sugar 

117 

243 

1  egg  white  to  1  cup  of  dark 

brown  sugar  

125 

257 

1  egg  white  to  ^  cup  of  dark 

brown  sugar,   3^  cup 

white  

122 

252 

*  Roasting  of  meat 

Temperature  of  oven 

First  15  minutes  

250 

450 

Remainder  of  time  

175 

347 

Temperature  of  meat  interior 

Rare  done  

46.5  to  60 

115.7  to  140 

Medium  

60  to  70 

140  to  158 

Well  done  

70  to  80 

158  to  176 

Deep-fat  frying.  Temperature  of  fat 

for 

Uncooked  foods  

175  to  190 

347  to  374 

Cooked  foods  

185  to  205 

365  to  401 

Cold,  wet,  uncooked  foods 

190  to  195 

374  to  383 

Baking.    Temperature  of  center  of 

oven  for 

Sponge  cakes  

175  to  190 

347  to  374 

Angel  food  cakes  

150  to  170 

302  to  338 

Souffles  (surrounded  by  water)  

200 

392 

Bread  

180  to  220 

356  to  428 

*  Sprague,  Elizabeth,  and  Grindley,  H.  C,  ''A  Precise  Method  of  Roast- 
ing Beef,"  Univ.  of  111.  Bull.,  Vol.  IV,  No.  19. 


138  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


TABLE  m.—Continued 


Degrees 

Degrees 

Process 

Centigrade 

Fahrenheit 

Butter  cakes 

Loaf  

190 

374 

Layer  

210 

410 

Muffins 

220  to  235 

428  to  455 

Parkerhouse  rolls  

235 

455 

Baked  potatoes  

235 

455 

Baking  powder  biscuit  

235  to  240 

455  to  464 

Popovers  

235  to  200 

455  to  392 

*  Pastry  

240 

464 

*  Sprague,  Elizabeth,  ''Studies  of  Methods  in  Food  Preparation," 
Journal  of  Home  Economics,  Vol.  Ill,  No.  5,  p.  446. 


TIME 

The  usual  clocks  found  in  the  home  may  be  divided  into 
two  classes,  the  mantel  or  wall  clock  type,  which  has  a  pendu- 
lum, and  the  common  alarm-clock  type,  in  which  the  movement 
is  controlled  by  the  vibrations  of  a  balance  wheel,  as  in  a  watch. 
The  second  variety  is  quite  portable  and  will  usually  run  in  any 
position,  but  the  pendulum  clock  must  be  kept  fixed  in  an  up- 
right position  and  must  be  adjusted  every  time  it  is  moved. 

Moving  a  pendulum  dock. 

The  pendulum  clock  usually  has  its  pendulum  suspended  by  a 
thin  flat  spring,  and  to  avoid  breaking  this  spring  when  the 
clock  is  to  be  moved  from  one  place  to  another,  it  is  best  either 
to  unhook  the  bob  from  the  pendulum  rod  or  to  secure  the 
pendulum  tightly  to  the  clock  works  or  case  so  that  it  cannot 
swing.  In  setting  up  such  a  clock  after  removal,  it  is  necessary 
to  put  the  clock  ^'in  beat^';  that  is,  to  make  the  successive  vi- 
brations of  the  pendulum,  or  the  time  between  successive  ticks 
of  the  clock,  of  equal  length.  This  must  be  done  by  carefully 
leveling  the  clock  on  its  support,  unless  the  clock  is  provided 
with  adjusting  thumbscrews  at  the  top  of  the  pendulum  by  the 
movement  of  which  one  way  or  the  other  it  can  be  made  to 
beat  uniformly. 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  139 


Setting  a  clock. 

The  setting  of  a  pendulum  clock  is  usually  best  done  by  turn- 
ing the  minute  hand  forward,  several  revolutions  if  necessary, 
to  bring  the  hour  hand  to  the  correct  hour.  If  the  clock  does 
not  have  a  striking  mechanism,  the  hour  hand,  which  is  usually 
held  on  its  slightly  conical  shaft  by  friction,  may  be  moved 
forward  a  sufficient  number  of  hours,  and  the  minute  hand  ad- 
justed to  the  correct  minute.  As  the  hour  hand  may  have  be- 
come loosened  on  its  shaft  by  this  procedure,  however,  it  should 
be  pressed  tightly  into  place  after  it  is  set  correctly.  In  some 
clocks  with  a  striking  mechanism,  the  minute  hand  should  not 
be  moved  backward  across  a  striking  point,  although  it  can, 
without  injury,  be  moved  back  short  distances  in  other  parts 
of  the  dial  to  set  it  correctly. 

Regulating  a  clock. 

Few  clocks  of  either  the  pendulum  or  the  alarm-clock  type 
are  made  with  devices  to  compensate  for  changes  in  temperature, 
and  as  these  changes  will  alter  the  rate,  it  is  desirable  to  keep 
the  clock  in  the  part  of  a  room  where  its  temperature  will  be 
most  constant.  Even  with  the  best  conditions  in  this  respect, 
it  will  be  necessary  to  regulate  the  clock's  rate  frequently  on 
account  of  the  changes  of  temperature  with  season  oi  with  the 
conditions  of  heating  or  cooling  of  the  room.  A  rise  of  tempera- 
ture will  lengthen  the  pendulum  rod  and  make  the  clock  run 
more  slowly.  It  will  be  necessary,  therefore,  to  raise  the  pendu- 
lum bob  by  turning  the  supporting  nut,  unless  an  adjustment 
device  is  provided  by  which  a  contact  point  on  the  suspension 
spring  at  the  top  of  the  pendulum  can  be  changed.  This  is 
done  by  turning  a  key  to  right  or  left  in  a  small  keyhole 
in  the  face  of  the  clock,  usually  near  the  upper  part  of  the 
dial.  This  has  the  effect  of  shortening  or  lengthening  the 
pendulum. 

In  the  alarm-clock  type,  the  regulation  is  done  by  moving 
a  small  lever,  usually  at  the  back  of  the  clock,  which  engages 
with  the  hairspring  on  the  balance  wheel,  and  so  decreases  or 
increases  the  effective  length  of  the  spring,  thus  controlling 


140 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


the  time  of  a  vibration  of  the  balance.  The  lever  should  be 
moved  toward  the  letter  "S^'  when  one  wishes  to  make  the 
clock  run  more  slowly  and  toward  ^^F'^  when  it  should  run 
faster.   The  same  rule  applies  in  the  regulation  of  a  watch. 

When  regulating  a  pendulum  clock  by  the  key  device,  the 
key  should  be  turned  overhand  toward  the  letter  ^'S"  or  "F/' 
according  as  one  wishes  to  make  the  clock  run  more  slowly  or 
faster.  If  there  are  no  indicating  letters  (^^F^^  and  ^'S")  pro- 
vided, the  usual  rule  is  to  turn  the  key  in  the  direction  the 
hands  move  to  make  it  go  faster  or  counterclockwise  to  make 
it  run  more  slowly. 

The  amount  of  movement  required  to  correct  the  rate  must 
generally  be  found  by  trial.  Thus,  if  the  clock  gains  five  min- 
utes a  day,  and  one  turns  the  key  of  the  regulator  two  revolu- 
tions toward  "S,''  or  moves  the  lever  of  an  alarm  clock  two 
divisions  toward  ^'S,^'  and  the  clock  then  loses  three  minutes 
a  day,  one  can  obtain  nearly  zero  rate  by  turning  the  key 
three-quarters  of  a  revolution  back  toward  ^^F^'  or  by  mov- 
ing the  lever  three-quarters  of  a  division  back  toward  ^^F.^' 
In  some  pendulum  clocks  there  may  be  some  motion  lost  in 
reversing  the  regulation,  and  this  should  be  taken  into  account 
in  estimating  the  amount  to  move  the  regulator. 

To  correct  the  striking  of  a  clock. 

While  some  clocks  of  a  more  recent  type  have  the  hour  and 
minute  pinions  and  the  striking  mechanism  so  geared  together 
that  it  is  almost  impossible  for  the  clock  to  strike  wrongly,  this 
frequently  happens  with  other  types  of  clocks.  This  difficulty 
can  be  remedied  easily  in  the  latter  case  by  several  methods. 
One  method,  which  can  be  used  in  case  the  hour  hand  is  held 
in  position  on  its  shaft  by  friction  only,  is  to  move  the  hour 
hand  backward  or  forward  .an  hour  or  more  as  may  be  neces- 
sary to  make  the  hour  indicated  by  the  clock-face  agree  with 
the  striking  mechanism,  pressing  the  hour  hand  tight  on  its 
shaft  afterwards,  as  described  above.  Then  the  clock  should 
be  set  to  correct  time  by  moving  the  minute  hand  around  the 
dial  the  necessary  number  of  times,  allowing  the  clock  to  strike 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  141 


the  full  amount  each  time  the  hand  passes  the  XII  point  before 
approaching  that  point  again.  This  method  is  especially  con- 
venient when  the  clock  strikes  one  or  two  strokes  less  than  it 
should.  When  it  strikes  more  strokes  than  it  should,  the 
same  method  may  -be  used,  or  the  minute  hand  may  be 
turned  ahead  rapidly  so  that  it  will  again  pass  through  the  XII 
point  while  the  clock  is  still  striking  for  the  previous  hour.  By 
so  doing  the  striking  mechanism  is  not  released  to  strike  the 
following  hour,  and  thus  an  hour  is  gained  in  the  face  indica- 
tion of  the  clock  compared  with  the  striking.  This  may  be 
repeated  as  many  times  as  the  number  of  strokes  by  which  the 
striking  mechanism  was  in  error.  The  clock  may  then  be  set  to 
correct  time  in  the  usual  way,  allowing  it  to  strike  the  full 
amount  on  each  passage  of  the  XII  point,  or  the  clock  may 
be  stopped  for  as  man}^  hours  as  it  is  fast,  until  again  it  indi- 
cates the  correct  hour,  when  it  can  be  started  and  set  correct 
without  the  necessity  of  striking  all  the  nine,  ten,  or  eleven 
hours  that  may  have  intervened. 

Some  clocks  have  a  lever  in  the  movement — an  extension  of 
the  striking  mechanism  release  arm  or  shaft — which  can  be 
moved  up  or  down  to  release  the  striking  mechanism  and  al- 
low it  to  strike  as  many  hours  as  are  necessary  to  bring 
it  into  agreement  with  the  indication  of  the  hands.  Or,  if  a 
special  lever  for  the  purpose  is  not  provided,  it  is  sometimes 
easy,  on  opening  the  door  to  the  works  of  the  clock,  to  find 
the  release  arm  itself  and  by  raising  it  accomplish  the  same 
result. 

Care  of  timepieces. 

Precautions  should  be  taken  not  only  with  clocks  but  also 
with  watches  to  keep  them  at  a  constant  temperature  if  one 
wishes  to  obtain  the  best  results  with  them.  If  possible  a  watch 
should  be  kept  at  nearly  the  same  temperature  at  night  as 
during  the  day.  The  variations  with  the  drop  in  temperature 
at  night  will  affect  the  rate  of  the  alarm  clock  uncompensated 
for  temperature  much  more  than  that  of  a  watch,  which  is  usu- 
ally compensated  for  high  and  low  temperatures. 


142 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


The  careful  handling  of  a  timepiece  of  the  balance-wheel 
type — clock  or  watch — is  also  important,  because  of  the  effect 
on  the  adjustment  and  rate.  All  sudden  changes  of  motion 
should  be  avoided,  and  a  fall  is  liable  to  bend  some  of  the  pivots 
and  seriously  change  the  rate.  The  position  in  which  it  is 
kept  also  makes  a  large  difference  in  its  rate,  especially  with 
the  unadjusted  cheaper  types.  Both  the  watch  and  the  clock 
should  best  be  kept  in  an  upright  position,  both  day  and  night, 
as  uniformity  of  practice  is  the  chief  essential.  All  timepieces 
should,  of  course,  be  kept  protected  from  dust  and  dirt.  They 
should  be  wound  regularly.  It  is  perhaps  better  to  wind  a 
watch  twice  a  day  than  once  a  day,  if  it  is  done  regularly,  and 
the  last  part  of  the  winding  should  be  done  slowly  to  avoid  in- 
jury to  the  mechanism. 

An  alarm  clock. 

An  alarm  clock  may  be  made  very  useful  in  giving  a  warn- 
ing of  the' necessity  of  inspecting  a  given  process  which  other- 
wise might  be  overlooked,  and  when  food  materials  are  fre- 
quently spoiled  in  preparation  from  lack  of  attention,  the  use 
of  an  alarm  clock  will  soon  save  its  cost. 

In  using  the  alarm  feature  of  an  alarm  clock,  the  setting 
mechanism  should  be  turned  in  one  direction  only,  for  the 
same  reason  as  in  the  case  of  setting  a  clock  with  striking  mech- 
anism to  correct  time,  to  avoid  locking  or  breaking  the  setting 
device.  Occasionally  the  indicating  hand  of  the  alarm  will 
not  be  placed  correctly  on  its  pinion  and  the  alarm  will  sound 
at  a  different  time  from  that  expected.  This  error  will  be  a 
constant  one,  however,  and  its  amount  having  been  once 
learned,  allowance  may  be  made  for  it  in  setting  the  hand;  or 
a  watch  repairer  can  correct  the  fault  very  quickly.  Many 
alarm  clocks  have  the  dial  for  setting  the  alarm  of  very  small 
diameter,  making  it  difficult  accurately  to  set  the  hand.  For 
this  use  it  is  desirable  to  secure  a  clock  with  as  large  an  alarm- 
halid  dial  as  possible,  preferably  one  having  the  alarm  hand 
set  on  the  central  pinion  with  the  hour  and  minute  hands. 
With  such  a  clock  the  alarm  can  be  set  quite  accurately 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  143 


for  giving  a  signal  at  short  intervals  and  can  be  used  to 
give  warnings  of  the  time  to  inspect  certain  processes  of  the 
kitchen,  for  the  taking  of  medicine  at  regular  intervals,  and  the 
Hke. 

MEASURING  GAS 

How  to  read  a  gas  meter. 

The  index  of  an  ordinary  gas  meter,  which  is  similar  to  that 
of  an  electric  or  a  water  meter,  is  shown  in  Fig.  41.    The  smal- 


FiG.  41. — The  index  of  a  gas  meter.  Each  dial 
is  marked  with  the  volume  of  gas  passed  a 
revolution.  The  smaller  top  dial,  which  is 
marked  "Two  Feet"  inside  of  the  circle,  is 
generally  called  the  "  testing  circle"  or  "  prov- 
ing head"  and  is  used  principally  in  testing 
the  meter. 

ler  top  dial,  which  is  marked  ^'Two  feet^'  inside  of  the  circle,  is 
generally  called  the  ''testing  circle or  ''proving  head,'^  and 
is  used  principally  in  testing  the  meter.  One  revolution  of 
the  hand  of  the  testing  circle  indicates  that  2  cubic  feet  of  gas 
have  passed  through  the  meter.  In  some  meters  one  revolu- 
tion of  the  hand  of  the  testing  circle  represents  more  or  less 
than  2  cubic  feet  of  gas  and  the  testing  circles  are  correspond- 
ingly marked.  The  indication  of  the  hand  of  the  testing  circle 
is  ignored  in  the  ordinary  reading  of  the  meter. 

Of  the  large  dials  the  first  one  at  the  right  is  usually  mafeed 
"1  thousand.'^  This  means  that  during  one  complete  revolu- 
tion of  the  hand,  1000  cubic  feet  of  gas  has  passed  through  the 


144 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


meter.  This  dial  is  divided  into  ten  equal  parts  so  that  the  pas- 
sage of  the  hand  over  each  part  indicates  the  passage  of  one- 
tenth  of  1000  cubic  feet,  or  100  cubic  feet.  For  most  meters, 
it  may  be  said  of  the  other  dials  that  the  complete  revolution 
of  each  hand  indicates  the  passage  of  ten  times  as  much  gas  as 
one  revolution  of  the  hand  of  the  dial  of  next  lower  denomina- 
tion (usually  the  one  to  the  right).  The  figure  representing 
the  number  of  cubic  feet  discharged  during  one  revolution  of 
the  hand  is  written  over  each  dial.    Thus  if  the  first  dial  is 


Fig.  42. — Gas  meter  index  reading  79,500  cubic 
feet. 


marked  ''1  thousand/'  the  second  dial  will  be  marked  '^10 
thousand/'  the  third  "  100  thousand/'  and  so  on. 

The  reading  of  the  index,  as  illustrated  in  Fig.  41  is  as  follows: 

Reading  of  ''1  thousand"  dial   200  cubic  feet 

Reading  of ''10  thousand"  dial   5  000      "  " 

Reading  of  ''100  thousand"  dial   30  000     "  " 

Complete  reading  of  the  meter   35  200     "  " 

It  is  not  necessary  to  write  down  separately  the  reading  of 
each  dial,  but  it  is  much  shorter  to  set  down  from  right  to  left 
the  figure  last  passed  by  the  hand  of  each  dial,  commencing 
with  the  dial  of  lowest  denomination  and  then — if  the  dial  of 
lowest  denomination  is  marked  ^^1  thousand" — appending 
two  zeros  to  the  resulting  figures. 

If  a  hand  is  very  nearly  over  one  of  the  figures  on  a  dial,  it 
is  impossible  to  tell  without  consulting  the  dkl  of  next  lower 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  145 


denomination  whether  the  figure  under  the  hand  or  that  just 
previously  passed  by  the  hand  should  be  read.  For  example, 
in  Fig.  42  the  hand  of  the  ^'100  thousand"  dial  is  over  8,  and 
considering  this  dial  alone  the  reading  might  be  taken  as  8;  but 
it  is  seen  that  the  reading  of  the  ^^100  thousand"  dial  cannot 
have  reached  8,  since  the  hand  of  the  dial  to  the  right  (the 
''10  thousand"  dial)  has  not  reached  zero.  The  reading  of 
the  ''100  thousand"  dial  is  therefore  7,  and  the  correct  reading 
of  the  entire  index  is  79  500  cubic  feet. 

To  satisfy  one's  self  that  the  gas  company  does  not  make 
a  mistake  in  reading  the  meter,  it  is  well  for  the  consumer,  oc- 
casionally at  least,  to  read  his  meter  at  as  nearly  as  possible 
the  same  time  that  the  gas  company  reads  it.  Usually  the  gas 
company's  bill  will  state  the  meter  readings  on  the  dates  be- 
tween which  the  bill  applies,  so  that  checking  meter  readings 
will  be  easy.  If  the  meter  readings  are  not  given  on  the  bill,  the 
consumer  can  determine  what  the  amount  of  his  bill  should  be 
if  he  knows  the  meter  readings  and  the  price  of  gas  a  thousand 
cubic  feet.  Should  the  consumer  take  one  meter  reading  at 
the  proper  time  and  then  miss  the  next  one  or  two,  it  is  obvious 
that  he  can  still  check  up  the  gas  bills  by  taking  a  reading  at 
the  next  convenient  time  when  the  company's  reader  calls,  cal- 
culating the  cost  of  gas  used  between  the  dates  of  his  readings 
and  comparing  this  cost  with  the  sum  of  the  amounts  of  the 
bills  rendered  for  gas  between  the  same  dates. 

Cost  of  gas  consumed  an  hour  in  appliances. 

With  only  a  little  trouble  one  can  determine  the  cost  an  hour 
of  operating  a  gas  light,  heater,  or  other  gas-consuming  ap- 
pliance. To  do  this,  one  should  have  in  operation  the  appli- 
ance in  question  and  all  other  gas  appliances  supplied  through 
this  meter  shut  off.  Then,  by  observing  the  "testing  circle" 
of  the  meter,  the  time  in  seconds  required  for  1,  2,  or  more 
cubic  feet  of  gas  to  pass  should  be  determined.  The  number 
of  cubic  feet  of  gas  used  an  hour  is  then  determined  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner:  (1)  Divide  the  number  of  cubic  feet  burned 
during  the  test  by  the  number  of  seconds,  thus  determining  the 


146 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


number  of  cubic  feet  of  gas  used  a  second,  and  (2)  multiply 
the  result  by  3600  (the  number  of  seconds  in  an  hour). 

Exam-pie:  It  is  observed  that  with  a  gas  water-heater  in  operation,  the 
meter  indicates  the  passage  of  2  cubic  feet  of  gas  in  1  minute  and  40  seconds. 
Applying  the  above  rule,  2  (cubic  feet)  is  divided  by  100  (seconds)  (the 
equivalent  of  1  minute  and  40  seconds),  which  gives  ;  is  multiplied 
by  3600,  giving  Wo^,  or  72.  The  water-heater  is,  therefore,  using  72  cubic 
feet  of  gas  an  hour. 

Knowing  the  cost  of  1000  cubic  feet  of  gas,  one  can  easily  calculate  the 
cost  an  hour  for  gas  used  in  the  heater;  for  example,  if  gas  were  $1  for 
1000  cubic  feet,  the  72  cubic  feet  would  cost  72  times  ^-^q-q  of  $1,  or  7.2 
cents,  which  is  the  cost  an  hour  for  gas. 

Causes  of  high  hills  for  gas. 

If  a  consumer's  gas  bill  for  a  certain  period  greatly  exceeds 
that  of  the  previous  period,  it  is  due  to  one  or  more  of  the  fol- 
lowing causes: 

1.  An  increased  consumption  of  gas.  A  careful  considera- 
tion of  the  use  made  of  gas  during  the  period  covered  by  the 
bill  will  very  often  reveal  the  fact  that  an  unusual  amount  of 
gas  has  been  consumed.  Baking,  canning  of  fruit,  entertain- 
ing, the  coming  of  long  winter  evenings,  and  the  like  are  a 
common  cause  of  increased  gas  consumption  resulting  in 
larger  bills  than  usual.  Leaks  in  the  gas  pipes  of  the  house 
may  produce  the  same  results. 

2.  An  error  of  the  gas  company  in  reading  the  meter  or  in 
office  work.  If  the  consumer  reads  his  own  meter  and  checks 
the  bill,  the  question  as  to  whether  this  cause  is  operative  can 
be  quickly  ascertained. 

3.  A  fast  meter.  If  the  two  above  causes  apparently  do 
not  exist,  the  consumer  will  naturally  consider  that  his  meter 
is  fast. 

The  best  procedure  for  the  consumer  who  thinks  his  meter 
incorrect  varies  with  the  locality.  Many  of  the  larger  cities 
are  provided  with  meter-inspection  departments,  under  the 
supervision  of  the  city  or  state,  and  the  consumer  can  have 
his  meter  tested  by  this  department.  If  his  meter  is  found  to 
be  fast  in  excess  of  the  established  tolerance,  the  company 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  147 


usually  pays  the  fee  for  the  test  and  refunds  to  the  consumer 
a  certain  amount,  depending  on  the  magnitude  of  the  error  of 
the  meter  and  the  probable  length  of  time  that  the  consumer 
has  been  thereby  overcharged.  If  the  meter  is  found  to  be 
within  the  tolerance,  or  ^'slow,''  the  consumer  usually  pays 
the  fee  (about  $1),  and  may  have  to  pay  the  gas  company  for 
the  probable  amount  he  has  been  undercharged. 

MEASURING  ELECTRICITY 

How  to  read  an  electric  meter, 

A  view  of  the  .dials  of  a  modern  electric  meter  is  given  in 
Fig.  43.   The  method  of  reading  is  similar  to  that  for  the  dials 


KILOWATT  MOUR5 

Fig.  43. — Dial  of  a  watthour  meter.    In  this  dial  the  hands  are  correctly 
set  on  their  shafts.   The  reading  is  538  kilowatt  hours. 

of  a  gas  meter  as  explained  on  page  144.  The  reading  in  Fig.  43 
is  538  kilowatt  hours.  In  taking  down  these  figures  one  should 
read  the  dials  from  right  to  left;  that  is,  in  the  reverse  of  the 
usual  order  of  writing  numbers.  The  pointer  on  the  dial  at 
the  extreme  right  points  to  8;  the  number  8  is  written  down  as 
the  figure  in  the  units  place.  The  index  of  the  next  dial  to  the 
left  has  passed  the  3,  bub  has  not  reached  the  4,  as  shown  by 
the  fact  that  the  units'  dial  reads  8;  the  figure  3  is  accordingly 
written  in  the  tens'  place.  The  index  of  the  third  dial  has  passed 
the  5,  and  this  figure  is  to  be  written  in  the  hundreds'  place, 
giving  538  kilowatt  hours  as  the  reading  of  the  meter,  since  the 
index  of  the  dial  at  the  extreme  left  has  not  reached  the  figure  1. 

If  the  index  hand  of  the  second  dial  in  Fig.  43  be  turned 
slightly  so  as  to  point  to,  or  even  slightly  past,  the  figure  4,  it 
becomes  more  diflScult  to  read  the  meter  correctly,  as  a  hasty 


148 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


inspection  may  result  in  the  reading  being  made  as  548  kilo- 
watt hours.  However,  the  index  of  the  units'  dial  standing  on 
the  figure  8  shows  that  it  has  not  quite  completed  a  revolution, 
and  hence  that  the  index  of  the  second  dial  (if  it  is  properly 
set  on  its  shaft)  should  be/^lose  to  a  division  and  about  to  reach 
it.  Hence,  it  should  be  read  as  having  passed  the  3  and  not 
having  reached  the  4.    A  view  of  a  meter  dial  face  having  the 


KILOWATT  HOUR5 

Fig.  44. — Dial  of  a  watthour  meter.  In  this  dial  the  hand  on  the  second 
circle  from  the  right  is  slightly  in  advance  of  its  proper  position  on 
its  shaft.  The  reading  is  the  same  as  in  Fig.  43,  namely,  538  kilowatt 
hours,  although  at  a  glance  it  might  be  incorrectly  read  as  548  kilo- 
watt hours. 

second  index  to  the  left  slightly  displaced  in  this  way  is  shown 
in  Fig.  44. 

When  one  dial  hand  points  to  9,  special  care  must  be  taken 
that  the  dial  hand  of  the  next  higher  dial  is  not  read  too  high, 
as  it  may  appear  to  have  reached  the  next  number,  but  will 
not  have  done  so  until  the  dial  hand  at  9  has  come  to  0.  A  sim- 
ple illustration  will  make  this  clear.  If  the  hour  hand  of  a  clock 
points  to  10,  as  closely  as  can  be  read,  and  if  the  clock  had  no 
minute  hand,  the  time  would  be  read  as  10  o'clock.  If  the  min- 
ute hand,  however,  is  pointing  to  the  figure  11,  the  time  is 
read  as  9.55.  Ten  minutes  later  the  hour  hand  may  not  have 
moved  perceptibly,  but  the  time  is  now  read  as  10.05.  Sim- 
ilarly, in  the  electric  meter,  the  reading  of  each  dial  must  be 
interpreted  by  noting  the  reading  of  the  next  dial  to  the  right. 

The  dial  hands  on  adjacent  dials  revolve  in  opposite  direc- 
tions; therefore,  a  reading  should  always  be  checked  after  being 
written  down,  as  it  is  easy  to  mistake  the  direction  of  rotation. 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  149 


Checking  the  watthour  meter. 

The  electric  meter  may  be  checked  approximately  by  the 
householder  without  the  use  of  electrical  instruments.  For  this 
purpose  it  is  only  necessary  to  note  the  reading  of  the  meter^ 
then  turn  on  a  number  of  lamps  and  note  the  time  in  hours  re- 
quired to  cause  the  index  of  the  dial  farthest  to  the  right  to  ad- 
vance one  division.  It  is  necessary  to  use  lamps  which  are  rated 
in  watts,  as  is  done  with  most  incandescent  lamps  now  made. 
If  the  meter  is  modern,  it  will  have  a  dial  marked  kilowatt 
hours/ ^  and  one  division  on  the  dial  farthest  to  the  right  is 
a  kilowatt  hour,  which  means  1000  watt  hours.  For  example,  if 
10  lamps,  each  marked  25  watts,  are  lighted  at  a  given  time, 
the  rate  of  using  electrical  energy  is  10x25  =250  watts.  In  4 
hours  these  lamps  will  use  4x250=1000  watt  hours,  and  this 
should  cause  the  index  of  the  dial  farthest  to  the  right  to  ad- 
vance one  division.  As  it  is  not  possible  to  read  a  single  division 
accurately,  the  lamps  may  be  allowed  to  run  until  the  index  has 
moved  over  several  divisions.  If  more  lamps  can  be  turned  on, 
or  larger  lamps  used,  the  time  required  for  the  test  will  be  re- 
duced. 

The  preceding  test  is  approximate  but  will  settle  the  question 
of  whether  any  large  error  exists  in  the  meter.  To  make  an  ac- 
curate test  requires  portable  watt  hour  meters  or  other  electrical 
apparatus  which  is  suitable  for  use  only  by  meter  inspectors. 

It  is  desirable  for  the  householder  to  read  the  meter  at  the 
time  it  is  read  by  the  meter  man,  and  to  keep  a  record  of  the 
readings  and  the  dates,  in  order  to  have  the  means  of  checking 
the  bill  rendered  by  the  company. 

When  the  bill  for  electric  current  seems  unduly  high,  the  meter 
is  often  first  suspected;  in  reality  it  is  usually  the  last  thing  to 
blame.  Some  of  the  reasons  for  higher  bills  are  as  follows: 

1.  Cloudy  or  rainy  weather,  requiring  use  of  light  in  daylight 
hours. 

2.  Additional  lamps  may  have  been  installed,  or  small  lamps 
may  have  been  replaced  by  larger  ones. 

.  3.  Old  dim  lamps  may  be  in  use;  in  order  to  secure  sufficient 
illuminaition  more  of  them  must  be  lighted  than  would  be  nec- 


150  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

essary  if  lamps  in  good  condition  were  used.  A  dim  lamp 
takes  practically  as  much  current  as  a  new  one,  and  is  very 
wasteful  to  use.  With  lamps  in  good  condition,  the  light  will 
not  be  efficiently  produced  if  the  electric  company  allows  the  vol- 
tage to  be  low.  In  this  connection  it  may  be  well  to  state  that 
the  tungsten  lamp  has  been  improved  in  quality  and  reduced  in 
price  to  such  an  extent  that  no  customer  can  afford  to  use  carbon 
lamps.  Many  householders  cling  to  the  use  of  carbon  lamps 
because  they  are  usually  supplied  free.  The  folly  of  this  course 
may  be  realized  from  the  following  statement:  The  cost  of  a 
lamp  is  reckoned  in  cents,  but  the  cost  of  the  energy  to  operate 
it  during  its  life  is  a  matter  of  dollars.  The  energy  cost  for  a 
tungsten  lamp  is  only  about  one-third  that  of  the  carbon  lamp. 

4.  Lamps  are  sometimes  left  burning  for  days  in  attics, 
closets,  and  other  out-of-the-way  places. 

5.  Electric  laundry  irons,  toasters,  or  other  heating  devices 
may  have  been  placed  in  service  or  used  more  than  in  former 
months.  Motor-driven  devices  may  have  been  installed.  Many 
devices  which  are  operated  through  flexible  cord  from  a  lamp 
socket  take  very  much  more  power  than  any  lamp  which  would 
be  used  in  the  household.  If  is  often  erroneously  believed  that 
because  such  devices  can  be  operated  from  a  socket  they  require 
no  more  power  than  a  lamp.  The  extent  of  this  error  may  be 
realized  from  the  statement  that  a  six-pound  laundry  iron  takes 
as  much  power 'as  twenty  tungsten  lamps  of  about  20  candle- 
power  each. 

6.  Defective  wiring  may  allow  current  to  flow  when  no  lights 
or  other  devices  are  in  use. 

7.  When  electric  elevators  or  electrically  driven  machinery  is 
used  and  not  properly  oiled  and  cared  for,  excessive  friction 
may  result,  with  a  corresponding  waste  of  power  and  increase 
in  the  bill  for  electric  current. 

8.  An  error  may  be  made  by  the  company's  meter  reader,  so 
that  the  bill  rendered  is  too  high  or  too  low.  If  it  is  too  high,  the 
bill  for  the  following  month  will  be  low  by  the  same  amount,  if 
the  meter  is  then  read  correctly,  so  that  the  consumer  will  not 
usually  lose  anything  in  the  end.    When  a  minimum  monthly 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  151 


charge  is  made  by  the  company,  the  consumer  may  lose.  Hence, 
if  an  error  has  apparently  been  made  by  the  meter  reader,  the 
(i  company  should  be  requested  to  investigate  the  matter  and  to 

I render  a  corrected  bill  if  an  error  is  found. 
MEASURING  WATER 
How  to  read  a  water  meter. 

Meters  for  measuring  water  for  domestic  use  are  usually 
graduated  in  cubic  feet — sometimes  in  gallons.   One  cubic  foot 


Fig.  45. — Ordinary  form  of  water-meter  dial.  Reading 
11,867  cubic  feet. 


is  taken  commercially  as  equal  to  73^  gallons.    Hence,  to  re- 
'I  duce  a  meter  reading  in  cubic  feet  to  gallons,  the  number  of 
cubic  feet  should  be  multiplied  by  73^. 

The  ordinary  form  of  dial  is  shown  in  Fig.  45.  A  special  form 
of  register  which  is  more  convenient  to  read,  is  known  as  a 
straight-line  register  and  gives  cubic  feet  or  gallons  directly. 


152 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


In  Fig.  45  the  unit  is  cubic  feet  and  is  plainb/  marked  on  the  dial. 
If  the  unit  were  gallons,  the  method  of  reading  would  be  the 
same.  The  hands  revolve  around  circles,  each  divided  into  ten 
numbered  divisions.  The  number  on  the  outside  of  each  circle 
indicates  the  number  of  cubic  feet  for  one  complete  revolution 
of  the  hand.  The  divisions  of  the  circles  are  numbered  alter- 
nately in  the  counter  clockwise  and  clockwise  direction.  Thus, 
the  first  dial  (at  the  bottom)  is  marked  10  and  one  division 
measures  1  cubic  foot,  the  second  100  and  one  division  measures 
10  cubic  feet,  the  next  is  marked  1000  and  one  division  measures 
100  cubic  feet,  and  similarly  for  the  remainder.  The  small  dial 
at  the  left  measuring  1  cubic  foot  for  a  complete  revolution  is 
disregarded  in  reading  the  meter,  being  used  for  test  purposes. 
One  division  of  a  circle  is  equal  to  a  complete  revolution  of  the 
hand  on  the  next  lower  circle.  When  a  hand  is  between  two 
figures,  the  lesser  is  to  be  taken.  If  a  hand  is  very  near  a  figure, 
whether  that  figure  or  the  next  lower  is  to  be  taken  can  be  de- 
termined by  observing  the  hand  in  the  next  lower  circle.  Unless 
the  hand  on  this  circle  has  reached  or  just  passed  0,  the  lesser  fig- 
ure is  to  be  taken.  The  best  method  of  reading  is  from  low  to 
high,  that  is,  from  right  to  left.  For  example,  reading  the  dial 
shown  in  Fig.  45  and  setting  down  the  figures  successively  from 
right  to  left,  there  are  7  for  units'  place,  6  for  tens'  place,  8  for 
hundreds'  place,  and  1  for  thousands'  place  and  for  ten- 
thousands'  place,  or  11,867  cubic  feet. 

The  circles  on  different  makes  of  dials  may  be  differently  lo- 
cated on  the  dial,  but  the  method  of  reading  is  the  same  as  given. 

In  meters  larger  than  those  ordinarily  used  for  household 
measurement,  the  lowest  graduated  circle,  the  one  marked  10, 
corresponding  to  units'  place  in  the  reading,  is  sometimes  omit- 
ted, the  lowest  circle  being  then  the  one  marked  100.  In  this 
case  the  meter  is  read  exactly  as  described  above,  and  a  zero 
added  in  the  units'  place. 

The  dial  after  reading  cannot  be  set  back  to  zero.  The  record 
is  continuous.  The  amount  of  water  which  has  passed  through 
the  meter  in  a  given  time  is,  therefore,  obtained  by  subtracting 
the  first  reading  from  the  last.   For  example,  if  the  meter  were 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  153 


read  the  30th  day  of  June  and  again  the  30th  day  of  July,  the 
June  reading  is  to  be  subtracted  from  that  taken  in  July. 

Using  the  water  meter  as  a  measuring  appliance. 

The  amount  of  water  required  for  a  particular  use — for  ex- 
ample, in  watering  a  lawn — may  be  determined  by  first  turning 
off  all  other  outlets  and  allowing  the  hose  to  run,  reading  the 
meter  at  the  beginning  and  end  of  the  period  and  subtracting 
the  first  reading  from  the  second. 

Since  the  meter  can  only  register  when  water  is  passing 
through,  should  the  hands  move  when  all  outlets  are  closed, 
water  is  being  wasted  through  some  leak.  This  can  be  most 
easily  detected  by  observing  the  circle  marked  ''one  foot,^^  re- 
ferred to  above  as  being  provided  for  purposes  of  test. 

DENSITY  OF  LIQUIDS 

A  knowledge  of  the  density  or  specific  gravity  of  a  liquid  is 
usually  of  value  in  the  household  only  as  an  index  of  some  other 
physical  property  or  quality  of  the  liquid.  For  example,  in  the 
preparation  of  sirups,  jellies,  and  other  food  products  of  similar 
nature,  a  measurement  of  specific  gravity  is  a  convenient  means 
of  determining  when  the  process  of  evaporation  or  ''boihng 
down''  has  been  carried  far  enough.  Also,  the  quality  or  fat- 
content  of  milk  may  be  determined  by  measuring  its  specific 
gravity. 

Specific  gravity  is  the  ratio  of  the  weight  of  an}^  volume  of  a 
substance  to  the  weight  of  an  equal  volume  of  water.  Milk  has 
a  specific  gravity  of  1.03,  since  the  weight  of  any  volume  of 
milk  is  3  per  cent  more  than  that  of  an  equal  volume  of  water. 
The  densities  given  in  Table  IV  are  stated  in  grams  to  the  cubic 
centimeter,  and  are  numerically  the  same  as  specific  gravity  in 
terms  of  water  at  4°  C.  as  unity. 

Determination  of  specific  gravity. 

The  specific  gravity  of  a  liquid  may  be  most  readily  deter- 
mined by  means  of  a  small  glass  instrument  known  as  the  hy- 
drometer. This  instrument  floats  in  the  liquid  to  be  examined 
and  the  specific  gravity  of  the  liquid  is  determined  by  noting  the 


154 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


point  on  the  stem  to  which  the  instrument  sinks  in  the  liquid. 
Since  a  floating  body  sinks  in  a  Hquid  to  such  a  point  that  the 
weight  of  the  hquid  displaced  by  the  body  is  equal  to  the  weight 
of  the  body,  the  hydrometer,  when  provided  with  a  suitable 
scale,  indicates  directly  the  specific  gravity  of  the  liquid. 

Classes  of  hydrometers.  S 

Hydrometers  in  general  use  may  be  divided  into  three  classes 
with  reference  to  their  indication:  1.  Specific  gravity  hydrom- 
eters; 2.  per  cent  hydrometers;  3.  arbitrary  scale  hydrometers. 

Specific  gravity  hydrometers  indicate  the  ratio  of  the  weight 
of  a  given  volume  of  the  substance  to  the  weight  of  the  same  vol- 
ume of  some  standard  substance.  The  standard  substance  is 
usually  water  at  a  definite  temperatuie. 

Per  cent  hydrometers  indicate  the  percentage  of  a  substance, 
either  by  weight  or  by  volume,  in  a  mixture  or  solution  of  the 
substance  in  water. 

Arbitrary  scale  hydrometers  indicate  the  concentration  or 
strength  of  a  substance  in  terms  of  some  arbitrarily  defined  scale. 
Lactometers  and  Baume  hydrometers  are  examples  of  this  class. 

TABLE  IV. — Densities  of  Some  Household  Materials 


Substance 


Air,  dry  

Air  (of  50  per  cent  humidity)  

Brine  (5  parts  by  weight  of  salt  in  100  parts  of 

of  brine)  

Brine  (25  parts  by  weight  of  salt  in  100  parts 

brine)  

Butter  

Cider  vinegar  

Cream  *  (18  per  cent  butter  fat)  

Cream  (40  per  cent  butter  fat)  

Gasoline  


Tempera- 
ture in 
degrees 

centigrade 


20  (68°  F.)  ■ 
20 

15 

15 


20 
20 
20 


Density  in 
grams  to  the 
cubic  centi- 
meter 


0.001205 
0.001195 

1.035 

1.191 
0.86  to  0.87 
1.013  to  1.015 
1.01 
0.99 
0.70  to  0.74 


*  Minimum  butter-fat  content  for  cream  (definition  of  Bureau  of  Chem- 
istry). 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  155 
TABLE  IV —Continued 


Substance 


Tempera- 
ture in 
degrees 

centigrade 


Density  in 
grams  to  the 
cubic  centi- 
meter 


Ice  

Kerosene.  .  .  . 

Lard  

Linseed  oiL  .  . 

Milk  

Olive  oil  

Sea  water .  .  .  . 
Sirup,  maple* 

Tallow  

Turpentine.  .  . 


20 
20 
20 
15 
17.5 


20 


20 


0.92 
0.78  to  0.82 

0.92 
0.92  to  0.93 
1.028  to  1.032 

0.91 

1.023  to  1.025 
1.32  to  1.34 
0.91  to  0.97 
0.86  to  0.87 


*  The  density  of  maple  sirup  varies  from  1.32  with  35  per  cent  of  water 
to  1.34  with  32  per  cent  of  water. 

The  hydrometer  to  be  chosen  for  household  use  will  depend 
•  on  the  purpose  for  which  it  is  intended,  the  degree  of  accuracy 
required,  and  to  some  extent  on  the  personal  preference  of  the 
user.  The  specific  gravity  hydrometer  is  recommended  for 
most  purposes. 

For  use  in  making  sirups,  preserves,  and  the  like,  an  instru- 
ment indicating  specific  gravity  in  terms  of  water  at  60°  F.,  or 
one  reading  in  Baume  degrees  will  be  found  convenient.  The 
hydrometer  should  have  a  range  of  about  1.00  to  1.50  in  specific 
gravity  or  1  to  50  in  Baume  degrees,  and  should  be  so  graduated 
that  the  readings  can  be  conveniently  made. 

Use  of  the  hydrometer. 

In  using  the  hydrometer,  a  portion  of  the  liquid  whose  specific 
gravity  is  to  be  measured  should  be  placed  in  a  glass  cylinder  of 
such  a  size  that  the  hydrometer  when  placed  in  the  cylinder  will 
be  free  to  move  up  and  down  without  coming  in  contact  with  the 
walls  of  the  vessel. 

The  liquid  should  be  well  stirred.  For  specially  accurate 
work,  the  temperature  of  the  liquid  should  be  observed  by  means 
of  a  thermometer  placed  directly  in  the  liquid ;  when  the  temper- 


156 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


ature  has  become  fairly  constant,  the  readings  on  the  hydrom- 
eter may  be  taken. 

The  eye  should  be  placed  on  a  level  with  the  surface  of  the 
liquid  and  the  hne  where  this  surface  appears  to  cut  the  stem 
of  the  hydrometer  should  be  taken  as  the  reading  of  the  hy- 
drometer. 

In  case  the  liquid  is  not  sufficiently  transparent  to  allow  the 
scale  of  the  hydrometer  to  be  read  through  the  liquid,  the  read- 
ing cannot  be  made  as  indicated  above.  It  is  then  necessary 
to  read  as  accurately  as  possible  above  the  surface  of  the  liquid. 
If  the  readings  in  a  dark-colored  liquid  are  always  made  in  the 
same  way,  the  resulting  error  will  not  be  great,  and  successive 
readings  will  be  comparable. 

Influence  of  temperature. 

When  the  temperature  of  a  liquid  changes,  its  specific  gravity 
also  changes  and  the  indication  of  a  hydrometer  in  the  liquid  will, 
therefore,  differ  at  different  temperatures.  All  hydrometers 
should  be  marked  with  the  temperature  at  which  they  are 
intended  to  be  correct. 

In  actual  practice,  however,  it  is  not  always  necessary  that 
the  hydrometer  be  used  at  its  standard  temperature,  but  if 
readings  are  to  be  compared,  they  must  all  be  made  at  the  same 
temperature.  For  example,  it  may  be  found  by  experience  that 
a  certain  sirup  has  the  proper  consistency  when  cool,  if  the  read- 
ing on  the  hydrometer  is  1.36  at  80°  F.  The  standard  tempera- 
ture of  the  instrument  may  be  60°  F.,  but  if  experience  has 
shown  that  a  certain  reading  of  the  hydrometer  at  some  other 
temperature  gives  satisfactory  results,  it  is  not  necessary  to 
wait  for  the  liquid  to  cool  to  the  standard  temperature  of  the 
instrument. 

KITCHEN  MEASURES 

In  the  kitchen  more  accurate  weights  and  measures  are  grad- 
ually coming  into  common  use,  as  the  units  used  are  becoming 
better  defined.  Domestic  science  departments  of  schools  and 
colleges  are  largely  responsible  for  this  advance. 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  157 


The  basis  of  the  kitchen  system  of  weights  and  measures  is 
the  standard  cup,  a  measure  holding  8  fluid  ounces — that  is, 
one-half  liquid  pint — and  used  to  measure  either  dry  or  liquid 
commodities.  One  of  these  cups,  subdivided  into  thirds,  fourths, 
or  both,  should  be  procm^ed,  since  the  ordinary  china  cups  vary 
greatly  in  size.  A  special  set  of  spoon  measures  (from  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  up)  will  be  found  convenient,  since  ordinary 
spoons  also  vary  in  size.  IMoreover,  neither  the  ordinary  cup  or 
spoon  is  adapted  to  measuring  of  fractions  of  their  capacity. 

The  measures  of  capacity  used  in  the  kitchen  are  based  on 
the  standard  cup,  as  follows: 

3  teaspoonfuls     =    1  tablespoonful  =  4  drams 

4  tablespoonfuls  =  3^  cupful  =  2  fluid  ounces 
3^  cupful  =    1  gill  =  4  fluid  ounces 

2  gills  =    1  cupful  =  8  fluid  ounces 

1  cupful  =   8  fluid  ounces  =  K  pint 

2  cupfuls  =16  fluid  ounces  =  1  pint 
16  fluid  ounces  =    1  pint 

4  cupfuls  =    1  quart 

In  the  above  all  measures  are  level  full.  The  equivalents 
given  will  permit  the  use  of  the  large  glass  graduate  for  measur- 
ing liquids  in  cooking. 

In  Tables  V  to  VIII  are  given  equivalents  of  units  commonly 
used  in  cooking  and  for  other  household  purposes. 


158 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


^1^ 


2  a3  3| 


oooooooodr^r- 


rHC0>Oi-iC0I>rt<  O 


H  (N  TtH  00  «D  d  CO 


ooo 

I-^(^JTt^oocD(^^oco 


-i-^OOCCXNtJHOOCDOO 
t-hCO  CO  (N  lO 

r-H  (N  (N 


3  C  0^ 


3^     3  o) 
=1^  9  o  cr  ^  3  ■ 
3^  2  fl  o 


<  3  , 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  159 


TABLE  VI. — Equivalent  Weights  and  Measures  of  Certain  Foods  * 


Food 

Measure  of  1  pound 

McGsure  of  1  ounce 

Beverages : 

Chocolate  

0  1/6  cups,  grated 

1  square  or  1/3  cup, 

grated 

4  cups 

M  cup 

o  l/o  cups 

5  l/o  tablespoons 

63^  cups 

63^  tablespoons 

Water  

2  cups 

2  tablespoons 

Bread  stuffs : 

Bread,  white  

lb  slices,  y2  lucn  tnick 

1  slice,  3^  inch  thick 

4  cups 

/4  cup 

Crackers,  graham  .  . 

57  crackers 

crackers 

Crackers,  oyster  .  .  . 

y  z/o  cups 

z/o  cup 

49  crackers 

3-1-  crackers 

124  crackers 

7  crackers 

Cereals : 

Barley,  pearl  

L  l/o  cups 

2  tablespoons 

Corn-meal,  granu- 

lated  •.  . 

cups 

2^4  tablespoons 

Com-starch  

3  cups 

3  tablespoons 

4  cups 

34  cup 

Flour,  entire  wheat . 

4/^  cups 

1/3  cup 

4  cups 

34  cup 

Hominy,  or  samp  .  . 

Ly^  cups 

23^  tablespoons 

Hominy  grits  

Ol/J—  nil-net 

^z2~r  cups 

23^-j-  tablespoons 

Macaroni  

43^  cups 

34+  cup 

3-|-  cups 

3-|-  tablespoons 

Oats,  rolled  

5^  cups 

5}/2  tablespoons 

xvice  

2  cups 

2  tablespoons 

Whole  wheat  

z  1/d  cups 

2  1/3  tablespoons 

Dairy  products : 

Cheese  (American) 

A.  ir  

4  cups  grated 

34  cup  grated 

Cream  40% 

2  cups 

2  tablespoons 

Milk  

2  cups 

2  tablespoons 

Eggs  (whole)  A.  P.*. .  . 

9 

egg 

Fats: 

Butter  

2  cups 

2  tablespoons 

Lard  

2   cups  and  2  table- 

spoons 

2+  tablespoons 

*  A.  P.  means  as  purchased;  E.  P.  means  edible  portion. 


160  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

TABLE  YL— Continued 


Food 


Crisco  

Oil,  olive  

Oil,  Wesson  

Suet,  beef  

Fruits,  dried: 

Apples,  A.  P  

Apricots   .  .  . 

Currants,  A.  P  

Dates,  A.  P  

Figs  

Prunes  

Raisins  

Fruits,  fresh: 
Apples,  A.  P  

Bananas,  A.  P  

Cranberries  

Grapes,  malaga.  .  .  . 

Grapefruit  

Lemon  juice  

Oranges  

Gelatin  

Meat: 

Bacon,  A.  P  

Bacon,  E.  P  

Nuts: 

Almonds,  A.  P .  .  .  .  . 

Almonds,  E.  P  

Peanuts,  A.  P  

Peanuts,  E.  P  

Peanuts,  butter.  .  .  . 

Walnuts,  A.  P  

Walnuts,  E.  P  

Sugars: 

Molasses  

Sugar,  granulated. .  . 
Sugar,  powdered.  .  . 
Sugar,  brown  


Measure  of  1  pound 


2   cups  and  2  table- 
spoons 
2  cups 

2  cups 

4  cups,  ground 

7  cups 
59  halves 
cups 

68 
24 

40  to  60 

3  cups 


3  apples,  or  4  cups 

diced 
3  medium  bananas 
43^  cups 
120  grapes 
1 

1  1/3  to  2  cups 

2  to  3 
3J^  cups 

30  slices 
40  slices 

6  cups  or  254  nuts 
3+  cups  or  385  nuts 
6  cups  or  220  nuts 
2  1/8  cups 
1)4  cups 

5K  cups  or  56  nuts 
4+  cups  or  240  average 
meats 

1  3/5  cups 

2  cups 

3  cups 
3  cups 


M easure  of  1  ounce 


2  tablespoons 
2  tablespoons 

2  tablespoons 
H  cup 

2/5  cup 
4  halves 
M  cup 
4M 

iy2 

3  to  4 

3    tablespoons    or  18' 
raisins 

M  apple,   or   1/3   cup ; 

diced 
1/6  (scant)  banana 
1/3  cup 
grapes 

2  tablespoons 

33/^  tablespoons 

2  slices 
23^  slices 

2/5  cup  or  16  nuts 
1/5  cup  or  24  nuts 
1/2  cup  or  15  nuts 
1/8  cup  or  40  nuts 
13^  tablespoons 
3}^  nuts 

15  halves  or  3^  cup 

1  }/2  tablespoons 

2  tablespoons 

3  tablespoons 
3  tablespoons 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  161 


TABLE  Yl.— Continued 


Food 

Measure  of  1  pound 

Measure  of  1  ounce 

TsipiocS/  p63/rl 

cups 

1/8  _{_  cup 

Minute 

cups 

23^  tablespoons 

.  V  c^tJtclUiti&j  LllicU.. 

Be3/iiSj  iiRvy,  A..  P 

2 -J-  cups 

2  tablespoons,  or  1/8  cup 

Beans  lima 

2  1/3  cups 

2-f-  tablespoons  or  l/8-{- 

cup 

TiPntils?   A  P 

tctUlCojJUUiJ.t5 

Beets  A  P 

2  medium  beets 

1/8  beet 

Cabbage  A  P 

1/3  to  3^  medium  head 

Carrots  A  P 

^1/^  carrots 

1/3  carrot 

Celery,  A.  P  

4  bunches 

1  stalk 

Onions,  A.  P  

6  to  8  medium 

}/2  medium 

Parsnips,  A.  P  

6  medium 

1/3  parsnip 

Potatoes,  A.  P  

23^  medium 

23^  tablespoons,  dried 

Potatoes,  sweet, 

A.  P  

3  medium 

1/5  potato 

Water  

2  cups 

2  tablespoons 

TABLE  VII. — Approximate  Measure  of  1  Ounce  of  Certain  Spices, 
Leavening  Agents,  and  Flavoring  Substances  (Mary  F.  Henry) 


Substance 


Measure  of  1  ounce 


Allspice  (whole) . 
Allspice  (ground) 
Baking  powder .  . 

Celery  seed  

Cinnamon  

Cloves  (whole) .  . 
Cloves  (ground) . 
Cream  of  tartar. 
Mustard  seed .  .  . 

Mustard  

Pepper  (whole) .  . 
Pepper  (ground) . 

Salt  

Soda  

Vanilla  


34  cup 
M  cup 

3  tablespoons 
3M  tablespoons 
3^  tablespoons 
4+  tablespoons 
3^  tablespoons 

3  tablespoons 
23^  tablespoons 

4  5/8  tablespoons 
4  tablespoons 

4  1/3  tablespoons 
1^  tablespoons 
23^  tablespoons 
2  tablespoons 


162 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


921VIU  do 
'  UJLOO  UVipUJ 

pa^s  SSVU6 
umuvBunfj 


{paasuij) 

pddSXVJjJ 


sjidqmnonj 


S9lUJ.9quVJ,J 


Z  p9dS  U0J10J 


2V9m  ujLoj 


UJLOO  p3Jpt{S 


pdds  u9aou 


(MO      CN  00 


p99S  SSVJ.B-9n2g 


ooi>ioooo    00  00 

Tt<  ■<4<       Ttl  lO  -"^ 


Sdiddv  pauQ 


tMO        Tt<  Tf^ 


5  sdiddy 


m  2 


-5  §  55  2.a^^^ 


1 


2"3     c3  C3.H.5.2 
^^^^^ 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  163 


lO  CO  lO  >0  CD  CO  CO 
lO  ^  lO  lO  O      lO  lO 


w  ?•  t-  =3  ™ 

^  ^  ^ 

(U  O)  <u  o  o 

^^^^^ 


Tt<  O  •  00  (N 
-^CO    -(M  CO 


Tt^OOOO  oooo  o 
COCOCOCOCO      COCOCOCO  CO 


OCQ00O(N  OC^<NOO  GO 
iOOtJ^iOtJi      lO  Tti 


00  00  i-O  O  00 


^  =*  3  c 


oo  ooo 

CO  O      CD  CO  O 


•(N  (N(MiM 


^^^^ 


c5a 


O      O)  „  o 

3     ^  C  <u      O  c 

W  "  O  O        C  m  I 


164 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


X  sdiuunj^ 
s9o}muoj^ 
pads  n-qjoiuij^ 


ooooo  ooo 

CO  CO  CD  CO  CO    CO  CO  CO 


o  ooooo  ooooo  ooooo  o 

CO    CD  CD  CO  CO  CO    CD  CO  CD  CO  CO    CO  CD  CO  CO  CD  CO 


lO  lO  lO  kO  o 
lO  lO        »0  CO 


any: 


CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CO  CD  CO  CD  CO  O  CO  CD  CO  CO  CD  CD 
lO    I0»0i0i0»0    I0>0>0i0i0    lOiOiOlOO  lO 


OOlO  00"0 
lO  to  to    lO  >o  to 


0-<^CO«pTti  CD 
CD  to  to  >x3  to  to 


saojvjoj 


pdipiisun 


(.^  ^Isvdd  punouO,^ 
jLo)  sjnuvdj 


sdmsu.vj 


ssvud  puvqauQ 


SpS  UOIUQ 


[  SUOIUQ 


00     (M  1^  1^ 

>0  to  tJ(    to  to  to 


(N     Tti  (N  (M 

lO    to  to  to  to  to  to 


(M     (M(M(N(N(M         (N  (N 

CO   cococococo  coroco 


■a 


f7  ^  S  2  2 


Cj    0)    ?^    "  03.rt.-<.^  -r- 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  165 


ooco  ooooo 


lO  lO  o 

CO 
lO 

CO  CO 

o  c    o  o 

c  o 

CO  ^ 

ClO 
CO  to 

(M  ■ 

•  c;  o  o 

.  LO  ^  lO 

o 

o  o 

ICO  lO 

CO  • 

to  • 

lO  lO  to  »0 

i-O  lO  O  lO  lO 

lO  LO 

CO  O      CO  CO  CO  • 

lO  LO        LO  LO  LO  • 

 •  • 

OO"*      T}HOTt<CDCD  OO 

CO  o  o 
Tt  O  to 

COOO     OOOcCO     cooo  o 
OOCOCO      OCiOOO      OwCDO  CD 

o  c  o 

CO  CO  CO 

c  CO    ceo  • 

O  LO     CO  CO  o  ■ 

OOOO      OCOOO  CO 
CDCDOO      CCOCOCDO      CC  CD 

o  o 

CO  CO 

CO 
coco 

oo 

CO  CO 

o  • 
o  • 

■2  g  : 


^  ^  ^  "S 

0)  O  d)  o  o 


o  c  >. 

.j3  o  2 
O  c3  b£  g 


So  2 

^  3  3 


X  c3  5 


C  £3 


C.2  o 


-c'S.t;  o     c  5  c 


e3  a 


2  c 


^  K  G^     o  P     o  5 

O  o  O  f^xi  O  O 


166  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


TABLES  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 


Apothecaries'  Fluid  Measure: 


Apothecaries'  Weight: 


Avoirdupois  Weight: 

27  i  I  grains 
16  drams 
16  ounces 
25  pounds 

28  pounds 

4  quarters 
20  hundredweight 
Circular  Measure: 


60  minims  =  1  fluid  dram 
8  fluid  drams  =  1  fluid  ounce 
16  fluid  ounces  =  1  Uquid  pint 
8  Uquid  pints  =  1  gallon 

(British  measui-es  differ  from  above) 

20  grains     =  1  scruple 
3  scruples  =  1  dram 
8  drams         1  ounce 
12  ounces    =  1  pound 

=  1  dram 
=  1  ounce 
=  1  pound 
=  1  short  quarter 
=  1  long  quarter 

=  1  hundred  wpiVht  I  short  hundredweight  =  100  pound - 
-  1  nundred weight  (  j^^^  hundredweight  =  112  pound " 

{short  ton  =  2000  pounds 
long  ton   =  2240  pounds 


1  ton 


Cubic  Measure: 


60  seconds      =  1  minute 
60  minutes      =  1  degree 
90  degrees       =  1  quadrant 
4  quadrants  =  1  circle  or  circumference 

1728  cubic  inches  =  1  cubic  foot 
27  cubic  feet  =  1  cubic  yard 
144  cubic  inches  =  1  board  foot 
128  cubic  feet      =  1  cord 

Dry  Measure: 

2  pints  =  1  quart 
8  quarts  =  1  peck 
4  pecks    =  1  bushel 

1  barrel  (for  fruit,  vegetables,  and  other  dry  commodities) 
105  dry  quarts 
Kitchen  measures.    See  pages  157  and  158 
Linear  Measure: 

12  inches 
3  feet 
53^  yards 
40  rods 
8  furlongs 
3  miles 
Linear  Measures  (special): 

1000  mills 
72  points 
4  inches 
7 . 92  inches 
9  inches 
6  feet 
40  yards 
10  chains 
6080.20  feet 

Liquid  Measure: 

4  gills  =  1  pint 

2  pints  =  1  quart 

4  quarts        =  1  gallon 
31  3^  gallons  =  1  barrel 
2  barrels       =  1  hogshead 

Paper  Measure: 

For  small  papers  the  old  measure  is  still  in  use: 

24  sheets  =  1  quire 
20  quires  =  1  ream  (480  sheets) 


7056  cubic  inches 


1  fdot 
1  yard 

1  rod  or  pole 
1  furlong 

1  statute  mile  (1760  yards,  or  5280  feet) 


1  inch 
1  inch 
1  hand 

1  surveyor's  link 
■  1  span 
1  fathom 
1  bolt  (cloth) 
1  furlong 
1  nautical  mile  = 


1 . 1516  statute  miles 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE  167 


11  TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES— Continued 

For  papers  put  up  in  cases,  bundles,  or  frames  the  following  measure  is  now  used: 
25  sheets  =  1  quire 

20  quires  =  1  standard  ream  (500  sheets) 

Square  Measure: 

144  square  inches  =  1  square  foot 
9  square  feet      =  1  square  yard 
30M  square  yards   =  1  square  rod  or  perch 
160  square  rods     =  1  acre 
640  acres  =  1  square  mile 

36  square  miles    =  1  township  (6  miles  square) 

Surveyor's  Measure: 

7.92  inches  =  1  link  (Gunter's  or  surveyor's) 
100  hnks     =  1  chain  (  =  66  feet) 
80  chains  =  1  mile 

1 1;  Surveyor's  Area  Measure: 

I  625  square  links  =  1  (square)  pole  or  square  rod 

' '  16  (square)  poles  =1  square  chain  (surveyor's) 

10  square  chains  or  760  square  rods  =  1  acre 
640  acres  =  1  square  mile 

36  square  miles  =  1  township 

Time  Measure: 

60  seconds  =  1  minute 
60  minutes  =  1  hour 
24  hours      =  1  day 
7  days       =  1  week 

365  days       =  1  year 

366  days       =  1  leap  year 

Troy  Weight: 

24  grains  =  1  pennyweight 

20  pennyweights  =  1  ounce 
12  ounces  =  1  pound  (Troy) 

ii  Carat  (for  precious  stones)  =  200  milligrams.  The  carat  was  formerly  an  ambiguous 
11'  term  having  many  values  in  various  countries. 

I;  Karat  (fineness  of  gold)  =  1/24  (by  weight)  gold.  For  example,  24  karats  fine  =  pure 
:'  gold;  18  karats  fine  =  18/24  pure  gold. 


INTERNATIONAL  METRIC  SYSTEM 

In  the  international  metric  system  the  fundamental  unit  is  the  meter — the  unit  of  length. 
From  this  the  units  of  capacity  (liter)  and  of  weight  (gram)  were  derived.  All  other  units 
are  the  decimal  subdivisions  or  multiples  of  these.  These  three  units  are  simply  related; 
e.  g.,  for  all  practical  purposes  1  cubic  decimeter  equals  1  liter  and  1  liter  of  water  weighs 
1  kilogram.  The  metric  tables  are  formed  by  combining  the  words  "meter,"  "gram,"  and 
"liter"  with  the  six  numerical  prefixes,  as  in  the  following  tables: 


Prefixes 

Meaning 

Units 

milli- 

one  thousandth 

1 

1000 

1 

100 

0 

001 

"meter"  i  for  length 

centi- 

one  hundredth 

01 

deci- 

Unit 
deka- 
hecto- 

kilo- 

one  tenth 

one 
ten 

one  hundred 
one  thousand 

1 

10 

1 

10 
100 

1000 

1 

"gram"  ^  for  weight  or  mass 
"liter"  1  for  capacity 

^  One  meter  =  39.37  inches;  1  liter  =  1.0567  liquid  quarts;  1  gram  =  0.035  avoirdupois 
ounce. 


168  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


INTERNATIONAL  METRIC  SYSTEM— Continued 


U nits  of  Length 

Units 

of  Capacity 

Units  of  Weight  {or  Mass) 

millimeter  = 

0.001 

meter 

milliliter 

0.001 

liter 

milligram  = 

0.001  gram 

centimeter  = 

.01 

centiliter 

.01 

centigram  = 

.01 

decimeter  = 

.1 

deciliter 

.1 

decigram  = 

.1 

METER  = 

1 

LITER 

=  1 

GRAM  = 

1 

dekameter  = 

10 

dekaliter 

=  10 

dekagram  = 

10 

hectometer  = 

100 

hectoliter 

=  100 

hectogram  = 

100 

kilometer  = 

1000 

kiloliter 

=  1000 

kilogram  = 

1000 

UNITS  OF  AREA 

The  table  of  areas  is  formed  by  squaring  the  length  measures,  as  in  our  common  system. 
For  land  measure  10  meters  square  is  called  an  "ARE"  (meaning  "area").  The  side  of 
one  are  is  about  33  feet.  The  hectare  is  100.  meters  square,  and,  as  its  name  indicates,  is 
100  ares,  or  about  23^  acres. 


HOUSEHOLD 


MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE 


CCCCCCC-1 

O        I>  --H 

lO  1:0  1>  00 


II  II  II  II  II      II  II  II  II 


(N  rt<  CO 
CO      (N  00 


050 
C0  05 


O  r-l  ,-1 


10      00  (N 


tHt-iW(m    c9co^Tt<i«  io;©c: 


t^QC  OOCi  C5 


M  O  00  CO 

o  Tt<  00  CO 


CO  CO  oi 


00 

00  CO 

CO  TJH 


CO  oco 

00                    CO  10  CO 

O                  1-1  (N  CO 

00                   CD  (N 

10  00  rH 

^NMco    ^«5»cor»  GCflJOco 


o  CO  o 
1-H  o  00  CO  10 

rt<  10  10  CO 


CO  CO  Tti  10 
ooccc 
0000c 

O  Tt<  00  (N  CO 
1>(M  l>  CO  00 


!>  Tt<  1-1 

cor^  1-1 

0500  X 

CO  l>  rH 


00  10 

00 

o 

to  o 


CO  10 
C0  1> 


oco 

05  CO 


i-irHecs(M(M    wcoco^  u5;fir«x® 


i-ii-i(N<N  COCOrt^TjHiO 

0000  00000 
0000  00000 


tO(N05COCO 

oooqiooico 

COCOlO  Ttl  Ttl 

oscot^i-iio 

.-<(N(MCOCO 


1>  CO  00 

M  10      O  (N 

rHi-(i-l04  0q 


1  0000      00000     iH^iW^  »«»t»X«S 


170  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


oooc 
oooc 


-iiM      CO      rHiO  Ob- 


COIN      00  --^O 


lOOi      COI>  Ort^ 


II    II  II  II  II  II 


wcO"*Tf*»A    iowr»i>  oooooiOiO 


oddd 


CO  lO  lO  rfi  CO 
Tti  lO  CO  1>  00 


ooooo 


l>iO(MO  OOiOCOi-400 


OlOO  lOr-ICOrHCO 

OCOQO  (NI>i-tCDO 


oooo    oo  oo 


lOOlOO 
lO  --I  CO  (M 

-  CO  TjH  CO 


lO  o 


oooo  OOHi-tr- 


II    II  II  II  II  II 


lOOlOO  lOOiOO'O 
lOi-iCOOl  t^C000Tt<O 
1-HCOTtlCO  I^CSOCICO 


OOOO  OOOOO 


lOOlOO  iOOCOt-icO 

Tt^ocooo  oit^ --^  CO  o 

CD(M05iO_  CsloqiCrHOO 

i-r.-H'iM''  co'co'-*  lo'vo 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE 


iiiiiii  11 

II  II  II  II      II  II  II  II  II      II  II  II  II      II  II  II  II  I! 


11 


I! 


ii 
a* 


il 


ij 


^1 
II 


LI  iJ!.  !J. 
T"i  "i'i  "ii 


5000    ooooo    pns^w^  »««©r.QCOi 

I  II  II  II     II  II  II  II  II     II  II  II  II     II  II  II  II  II 

mm  mm 


iiii  iiii 


m  mm 


o    X  o rcL- 


ill  11-^ 


II   II  II 


iili  iilii 


172 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


.  O   !^  S 


Tt^  00  COI>  i-HCDOTfO) 

lO  O  COi-H  t^(NOOOOOO 

00  1^  lOTfH  (Mi-HOOOCD 


^00=^ 


OOOOr-t 

O  O  lO  05 
lO  <N  00  Tt< 
OCOtOOO 


00      CO  o 


CO      00      CO  l> 


(NWCO^ 

II  II  II  I 


II  II  II  II 


Oi        lO  T-H 


CVI  CD       05  rH       CO  lO  t^O 

CO      O  05      (N  CO      O  <N  lOOi 

<N  CO    a>  1-H    CO  CO  ooo 

tH'-hnn  Mco^Tf^ifl  ;Dco'r»i>  ocooojoi-h 


lO      CD  00 


OrHr-iN      (MOSCOW-*     Tj^UJiO;©  '  CD  r- 1>  OC  OS 


IN  lO  00 


OOt-hcd 
(MfNCOCO 
00  lO  (>J  C5 


Tt<  .-tO)  CDCOOI^rH 

CD                   CO  OCD  coot^coo 

oi                05  0500  oooot^r^t^ 

CD                       CO  OI>  Tt<i-i00iO(N 

H5QMCO  CCOi^'^  00(NiOO5C0 


oocD-*(M  ooor^ioco 

COt^T-HiO  05(NcDOTt< 


OOOO     OOOOO     *HWW^  »«»r»QC05 

II  II  II  II    II  II  II  II  II    II  II  II  II    II  II  II  II  II 


rHt^i-iiC  OSINCDOCO 


t^t^t^cDCO 
■^I>OC0CD 


HOUSEHOLD  MEASUREMENTS  AND  THEIR  USE 


"^1 1 


(M      CO  CO 


O  i-i  CO 
QC  OC  Ct  O  O 


a:  C5  o 

CO 

(M  Tt<  ^ 

i-O  O  L' 

CO  1>  c 

O  r- 

II  II  II  I 


O  O  LO 

C!  CO  i-H  lO 

O  1-1  Tf  O  O  i-H 

O  O  ^  O  T-H  1^ 

t>  ^  00  y-i 

i-iT-iN(N!N  (NWCO^ 

II    II  II    II    II        II  II    II  II 


00 


CO 


OC  (M      C  CO 


H5Q(M  MCO^Tj^us 


LO  « c:;  !>•       X  Oi  ci  o 


OiHi-iC?  (NMCO^T 


U5i-0»O  r-t^l>QCC5 


i-i(NCOTf  i-ocrn>oo 

lO  O  lO  O  O  O  lO  o 

cot^o-*  t^i-HTtoo 

i-H(MTfiO  OOOOO 

i-KMCOrti  iCOt>C5 

doCO  OOCOiH 


OTt<(M  >-iCir^LOCO 

C5  c;  o    a  cc  cccc  oc 


f>3  e 


I  II  II  II     II  II  II  II  II     II  II  II  II     II  II  II  II  II 


174 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


CO  CO 


05      1-1  T^<|>OCOCO 

CO      Oi  >-ifOCOOOO 

CO  CO  »o    CO  CO 

CO     '  rH  OOtOCOi-l 


LO.-I 

C01> 


I>T-i  lOOO 
CO(N  t^(M 


hN(M(NW      COCO^Tt^  »«»r»QC05 


r-IC0iX>00O 
i-H>C0O5CO 
COIXMCD.-I 
(N  (M  coco  TfH 
OCM'^COGO 


oocO'T^iiN  ooor^ioco 

TtH0i'<^05  Ttioocoooco 

COCDOCO  l>OTt*t^i-l 

OOi-i'-H  i-i(N(M(MCO 

i-I(MCOtJH  lOCDl>G0ai 


II  II  II  II  II  II  II  II  II  II 

lOOlOO  »OOcDr-(CO 

i-iC0Tt<cO  t^050(MCO 

(N-*CDOO  0(NiOt^O> 

C0COO5(M  COO5(MiO00 


OOOi-l  rHr-l<M(N(M 

odoo  ooooo 


lOi-icOi-H  CD(MI>(Nl^ 

OiOJOOGO  r^t^cocoio 

COCOOCO  t^OrtH>i-H 


OOCDlOCO  1-HOOOCOlO 


<NiO00.-i 

CO  o 


Tt<  (N  05 

C0COC5t-It*< 
CD  .-I  CO  (N 
1^  rH  Tj<  00  --I 

th  (N  <M  (M  CO 


OOOO     OOOOO     iHNW*  »i9«0r»QC0S 


oooo 

00  CO  TtH  <M 
05  Tt<  O) 
C0(M05«0 
0^rH(N 

dddd 


CO  CO  Tt<  lO  lO 


ooooo     t-I^JM^  U5Or»Q0« 


^|>T-lTtH  OOrHlOOlM 

(NrtHt^Oi  1— I  Ttt  CO  00  <-< 

COCOOiiM  c005(Ni00i 

■rHO0(Nt^  


T-(WM'*     «5Wr»QC0J  lOOCO 


T-t»OO-^00 
I^(N00CO00 


cOTt<co  r^050(Nco 


CHAPTER  VI 


HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 

'  BY  Edith  Fleming  Bradford 

The  business  of  housekeeping  needs  its  records,  not  only  those 
deaHng  directly  with  finances — the  whence  and  whither  of  the 
i;  income — ,  but  those  showing  such  facts  as  the  quantities  of 

I  staple  supplies  bought  each  season  and  the  amounts  remaining 

I I  on  hand.  These  records  should  include  tested  recipes,  varying 
I  in  quantity  or  cost  from  the  originals,  and  such  data  as  the 
I  comparative  cost  of  supplies,  and  the  time  required  to  carry  on 
i  different  kinds  of  work  in  the  routine  of  housekeeping.  The 
i|  filing  of  correspondence  helps  to  prevent  the  accumulation  of 
i;   unimportant  letters  and  acts  as  a  reminder  that  replies  are  due. 

i  It  also  gives  latest  addresses,  thus  replacing  the  address-book 
l!  which,  of  necessity,  shows  many  alterations  and  is  frequently 
|[  not  up  to  date*.  Magazine  and  newspaper  clippings  become  of 
[i  greater  value  when  systematically  arranged  than  when  allowed 
I ;  to  accumulate  in  a  desk  drawer  or  when  pasted  in  a  scrapbook. 
' :  Many  housekeepers  try  to  preserve  data  of  this  nature  by  mem- 
I:  ory,  dreading  the  thought  of  systematizing  records  to  so  great  an 
I  extent.  Such  organization,  however,  may  be  carried  out  gradu- 
!  ally,  beginning  with  the  data  most  frequently  used  and  extend- 
1    ing  to  other  subjects  of  interest. 

The  following  list  of  subjects  may  suggest  a  classification  of 
household  records:  (1)  accounts;  (2)  financial  papers,  such  as 
!  insurance  policies;  (3)  inventories  of  furniture,  linen,  and  the 
1  like,  with  a  separate  card  for  each  type  of  equipment,  such  as 
chairs,  sheets  single,  sheets  double;  (4)  comparative  cost  of 
I  foods  having  approximately  the  same  value  in  the  diet;  (5) 
I  stock  of  staple  food  supplies;  (6)  tested  recipes;  (7)  dishes 
I  suitable  for  each  of  the  three  meals,  those  quickly  prepared  being 
i  175 


i 


].76  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


listed  separately;  (8)  household  hints  on  laundry,  dyeing,  and 
the  like;  (9)  storage  record;  (10)  time  record  for  certain  kinds  of 
household  work,  when  no  interruptions  occur,  valuable  not  only 
to  the  woman  who  supervises  the  work  of  others,  but  to  the 
one  who  does  her  own  housework;  (11)  medical  and  dental 
record;  (12)  correspondence;  (13)  gift  record,  of  special  value 
to  those  who  send  many  gifts  at  Christmas;  (14)  plans  for  the 
future,  such  as  making  gardens;  (15)  amateur  photography. 
Films  may  be  classified  according  to  place  or  subject.  Prints 
may  be  placed  with  films  or  separately  under  a  similar  classifi- 
cation. 

]J    HOW  TO  KEEP  HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 

A  small  filing  cabinet  of  pasteboard  or  wood,  in  which  the 
information  is  recorded  on  cards  arranged  according  to  the 
classification  chosen,  may  be  used.  The  general  headings 
should  be  written  or  printed  on  cards  known  as  guides,  which  are 
of  heavier  paper  than  are  those  for  the  records  and  which  have 
on  their  upper  edge  a  projection  which  serves  to  call  attention 
to  the  name  of  the  subdivision  written  upon  it.  Both  classes 
of  cards  should  be  arranged  alphabetically. 

Cards  3  by  5  inches  may  be  used  for  all  records,  although 
they  are  rather  small  for  recipes  and  accounts.  Many  house- 
keepers use  a  card  4  by  6  inches  for  recipes  and  one  that  is 
5  by  8  inches  for  accounts;  but  as  far  as  possible  the  same  size 
should  be  used  in  order  to  avoid  having  many  filing  cases. 

One  cabinet  of  wood  that  will  harmonize  with  the  study  desk 
or  table  will  be  found  very  convenient.  Such  a  cabinet  of  one 
drawer,  will  accommodate  several  hundred  cards.  A  desk,  with 
a  drawer  adapted  to  the  purpose  may  be  bought,  or  a  drawer 
of  suitable  depth  may  be  subdivided  so  that  the  cards  will  fit  it. 
In  buying  a  desk  it  is  well  to  choose  one  in  which  the  drawers 
may  be  so  subdivided  as  to  conform  to  the  standard  sizes  of  cards 
and  papers.  These  sizes  are  3  by  5  inches,  4  by  6  inches,  5 
by  8  inches,  and  8^2  by  11  inches.  The  last  size  permits  the 
filing  of  papers  such  as  clippings,  receipted  bills,  and  correspond- 
ence in  the  manila  folders  generally  used  in  offices.  These 


HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 


177 


manila  folders  may  be  classified  in  the  same  way  as  are  the  cardsj 
the  topics  treated  being  noted  on  the  upper  left-hand  edge  of 
each.  The  names  of  the  classifications,  if  there  are  several, 
may  be  written  or  printed  on  large  guides  placed  in  front  of 
each  section  of  folders. 

HOUSEHOLD  ACCOUNTS 

The  advantages  of  keeping  household  accounts  include:  (1) 
an  accurate  knowledge  of  the  use  of  the  family  income;  (2)  a 
check  on  wasteful  expenditures;  (3)  an  encouragement  to  form 
a  proper  relationship  between  the  various  classes  of  expendi- 
tures; (4)  an  encouragement  to  save;  (5)  a  protection  against 
paying  a  bill  twice;  (6)  a  settlement  of  disputes. 

Equipment. 

Equipment  for  keeping  accounts  may  be  of  the  most  simple 
kind.  In  the  kitchen  there  should  be  a  hanging  hook  file  on 
which  to  place  delivery  slips  and  bills  to  await  entry  in  the  ac- 
counts. A  small  pad  for  memoranda,  to  which  is  attached  a 
pencil,  is  found  to  be  a  timesaver.  Either  a  desk  or  a  small  table 
with  a  drawer  should  be  provided  in  the  study  or  in  the  living- 
room  for  keeping  the  necessary  records,  which  include  an  ac- 
count book  and  a  check  book.  A  filing  case,  with  compart- 
ments indexed  alphabetically,  serves  to  keep  bills  in  order.  If 
it  is  possible  to  have  the  best  equipment,  a  desk  with  a  drawer 
sufiiciently  large  for  the  filing  of  papers,  including  not  only 
bills  but  correspondence,  is  desirable. 

At  least  some  equipment  is  necessary  in  order  that  there  may 
be  a  place  for  everything,  a  factor  which  contributes  greatly 
to  the  satisfaction,  as  well  as  to  the  profit  derived. 

Forms  of  keeping  accounts. 

Accounts  may  be  kept  in  book  form,  either  bound  or  loose 
leaf,  or  on  cards.  The  simplest  method  of  keeping  accounts 
is  one  that  records  merely  receipts  and  expenditures,  each  in  its 
own  column,  no  en  cry  being  made  for  charged  items  until  pay- 
ment is  made.  For  this  purpose  pages  like  form  1  (page  183) 
are  good,  receipts  being  kept  on  the  left-hand  page  and  ex- 


178  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


penditures  on  the  right-hand  page.  A  book  in  which  the  re- 
ceipts are  kept  on  the  left  half  of  the  page  and  the  expenditures 
on  the  right  half  of  the  same  page  may  be  used,  but  such  a  book 
generally  does  not  allow  sufficient  space  for  all  details  of  itemi- 
zation. Some  persons  like  to  use  a  book  with  two  columns  at 
the  right-hand  side  of  the  page,  one  column  for  receipts  and  one 
for  expenditures,  but  with  this  form  more  care  must  be  taken 
to  enter  the  figures  in  the  proper  column. 

Such  a  record,  however,  gives  merely  the  total  income  and 
expense  for  any  period  of  time  without  answering  such  questions 
as  the  amount  of  bank  balance,  of  cash  balance,  how  much  has 
been  paid  for  food  during  a  certain  period,  how  the  expenditure 
for  food  compares  with  that  for  rent,  how  much  has  been  spent 
for  medical  service,  for  wages,  for  recreation,  for  education,  the 
amount  owed,  to  what  extent  the  family  has  been  supplied 
with  produce  from  the  home  farm  or  garden;  or  a  question 
of  dietetic  significance,  such  as  how  the  expense  for  meat  and 
similar  foods  compares  with  that  for  fruit  and  vegetables. 

In  order  to  answer  such  questions,  the  expenditures  must  be 
analyzed.  In  the  type  of  account  shown  in  form  1  (page  183), 
such  an  analysis  is  difficult,  and  in  a  busy  household  the  time 
is  lacking  to  accomplish  it  at  the  end  of  a  month  or  a  year. 
If,  therefore,  it  is  agreed  that  little  satisfaction  is  to  be  de- 
rived from  a  mere  list  of  daily  expenditures,  a  type  of  account 
that  readily  gives  the  desired  information  must  be  considered 
(form  2,  pages  184  and  185). 

Expenditures  may  be  divided  under  the  headings  shelter, 
food,  clothing,  and  miscellaneous,  and  as  many  subdivisions  as 
desired  may  be  used  under  these  headings.  Under  shelter,  for 
example,  there  may  be  rent,  heat,  light,  wages  and  laundry, 
furniture  and  furnishings.  In  case  the  house  is  occupied  by  the 
owner,  the  rent  column  may  be  replaced  by  one  in  which  are 
recorded  such  items  as  repairs,  taxes,  and  insurance.  The  head- 
ing food  may  be  subdivided  into  meat  and  eggs,  milk  and  cream, 
fruits  and  vegetables,  groceries  and  miscellaneous  items.  Under 
the  heading  clothing  may  be  entered  all  the  expenses  for  such 
supplies  for  the  family,  or  an  account  may  be  opened  for  each 


HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 


179 


individual.  Miscellaneous  will  include  such  items  as  education, 
traveling  expenses,  medical  services,  allowances  to  children, 
recreation,  and  benevolence. 

In  the  foregoing  types  of  accounts  all  cash  is  entered  in  the 
receipts  column;  therefore,  in  order  to  prove  the  accuracy  of  the 
record,  the  difference  between  receipts  and  expenditures  must 
agree  with  the  sum  of  the  bank  balance,  as  shown  by  the  check- 
book, and  the  cash  on  hand.  In  the  plan  outlined  in  form  2 
(pages  184  and  185),  the  totals  of  the  columns  showing  the  sub- 
division of  expenditures  must  agree  with  the  total  of  the  ex- 
penditures column. 

If  the  number  of  columns  is  too  large  to  be  accommodated  on 
one  page,  a  separate  page  of  columns  may  be  ruled  for  each  of 
the  divisions:  cash  account,  charge  account,  produce,  shelter, 
food,  clothing,  and  miscellaneous  (form  3,  pages  186  to  189). 
This  necessitates  the  entering  of  dates  on  the  proper  page  of 
subdivisions,  as  well  as  in  the  cash  account,  the  charge  account, 
or  the  produce  account.  The  ruhng  of  pages  in  form  3  (pages 
186  to  189)  will  explain  this  matter  more  fully. 

As  much  detail  as  is  desired  may  be  given  in  the  itemization 
columns.  More  than  one  item  may  be  written  on  each  line, 
if  dates  are  inserted  where  there  is  a  change.  The  charge  ac- 
counts of  a  household  are  generally  with  so  few  firms  that  either 
of  the  forms  shown  on  pages  184  and  187  may  be  used  satis- 
factorily: If  the  firms  with  whom  charge  accounts  are  kept  are 
numerous,  however,  it  may  be  well  to  devote  a  separate  page 
to  each  firm. 

If  it  is  considered  desirable  to  keep  a  separate  record  of  the 
bank  account  and  the  cash  account,  another  subdivision  may 
be  made  as  shown  in  form  3  (page  186).  The  advantage  of 
this  method  is  that  it  serves  as  a  test  of  the  accuracy  of  the  bank 
book  and  the  check  book,  and  it  also  shows  the  state  of  the  bank 
account  without  reference  to  any  other  record. 

The  opening  entry  of  a  cash  account  must  be  balance  on 
hand,^^  the  bank  balance  being  shown  in  the  deposits  column, 
and  the  cash  balance  in  the  receipts  column.  Later  entries  will 
be  as  follows : 


180 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Bank  deposits  in  the  deposits  column. 

Withdrawals  from  the  bank  in  both  the  withdrawals  and  the  receipts 
columns. 

Receipts  for  current  use  in  the  receipts  column. 

Expenditures,  whether  by  check  or  in  cash,  in  the  expenditures  column, 
as  well  as  in  the  proper  column  on  the  page  of  the  subdivision  of  expenditures. 

Goods  for  which  payment  is  not  made,  in  the  right-hand  column  of  the 
charge  account  and  also  on  the  proper  page  of  subdivisions. 

Payment  of  a  charged  item  or  items  in  the  expenditures  column,  and  in 
the  left-hand  column  of  the  charge  account.  In  entering  such  items,  ref- 
erence should  be  made  to  the  name  of  the  firm  and  the  date  on  which  the 
bill  was  rendered. 

Receipt  of  produce,  valued  at  current  market  rates,  in  the  produce 
account  and  on  the  proper  page  of  subdivisions. 

If  an  account  such  as  that  indicated  in  form  3  (pages  186  to 
189)  is  to  be  kept,  a  loose-leaf  account  book  may  be  used  so 
that  additional  sheets  may  be  inserted  where  they  are  needed. 
If  a  bound  book  is  preferred  and  it  is  necessary  to  rule  all  the 
sheets  used,  the  book  may  be  divided  into  portions,  each  of 
which  consists  of  a  sufficient  number  of  pages  to  accommodate 
a  year's  records. 

To  balance  accounts 

It  is  desirable  that  accounts  be  balanced  at  least  once  each 
week  in  order  that  errors  and  omissions  may  be  avoided.  In 
balancing  accounts,  totals  of  all  columns  may  be  inserted  in 
small  pencil  figures,  which,  if  not  erased,  make  it  unnecessary  to 
repeat  the  addition  at  the  end  of  the  accounting  period.  A  test 
of  the  accuracy  of  such  records  is  as  follows : 

Deposits  minus  withdrawals  =       bank  balance 

(This  must  agree  with  the  check  book  and  with  the  bank-book  balance 

minus  the  checks  not  yet  presented.) 
Receipts  minus  expenditures         =       cash  on  hand 
Balance  in  the  charge  accounts      =       amount  owing 
Total  of  all  subdivisions  of  expenditures  =  total  of  expenditures  in  the 

cash  account,  plus  produce,  plus  balance  in  the  charge  account. 

To  pass  to  a  new  page,  the  totals  are  entered  at  the  foot  of 
the  completed  page  and  again  at  the  top  of  the  new  page  in  the 
corresponding  columns,  the  word  forward  being  written  in  the 
itemization  column  on  each  page. 


HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 


181 


To  close  accounts. 

Accounts  may  be  closed  monthly  or  yearly  according  to 
whether  it  is  desired  to  compare  the  records  of:  (1)  different 
months  of  the  same  year;  (2)  corresponding  months  of  different 
years;  or  (3)  yearly  totals.  At  the  end  of  each  accounting  period, 
however,  the  old  account  should  be  closed  by  entering,  preferably 
in  red  ink,  the  bank  balance  in  the  withdrawals  column  and  the 
cash  balance  in  the  expenditures  column  of  the  cash  account, 
and  by  then  obtaining  the  totals  of  all  the  columns.  The  same 
balances  should  be  carried  forward  to  the  deposits  and  the  re- 
ceipts columns,  respectively,  of  the  new  account,  as  shown  in 
form  3. 

Summaries  for  comparison. 

Monthly  or  annual  summaries  may  be  arranged  in  the  fol- 
lowing form: 

Income   $  

Expenditures: 

Food   $  

Shelter   $  

Clothing   $  

Miscellaneous   $  

Total   $  

Balance   $  

Produce  account   $  

As  an  example,  on  pages  183  to  189  are  found  entries  neces- 
sary to  record  the  following  facts  in  the  three  types  of  accounts: 

On  May  1,  1916,  the  bank  balance  was  $285.46  and  the  cash  balance 
$17.64.  Bought  from  A.  B.  Jones  on  account  6  pounds  of  butter  at  $.35  a 
pound,  $2.10;  2  bushels  of  potatoes  at  $1.00  a  bushel,  $2.00;  10  pounds  of 
sugar  at  $.08  a  pound,  $.80. 

May  2,  paid  rent  by  check,  $30.00;  bought  for  cash  from  L.  K.  Harvey, 
3  dozen  eggs  at  $.22  a  dozen,  $.66;  received  check  for  $50.00  from  F.  A. 
Brown  for  board  and  deposited  it;  received  from  J.  Williams,  salary,  $30.00, 
of  which  $20.00  was  deposited  and  $10.00  retained  in  cash. 

May  3,  paid  account  of  May  1  with  A.  B.  Jones,  $4.90. 

May  5,  bought  9  yards  of  dress  goods  at  $1.25  a  yard,  $11.25;  gathered 
garden  vegetables  worth  $.20  for  home  use;  paid  $2.00  for  magazine  sub- 
scription to  May  1,  1917. 


182 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


By  checking  these  accounts  according  to  form  3,  the  following 
results  are  obtained: 

Bank  Account: 

Deposits   $355.46 

Withdrawals   39.00 


I 


Balance   $325.46 

Cash  Account: 

Receipts   $57.64 

Expenditures   48 . 81 

Balance     $  8.83 

Total  Balance   $334 . 29 

Amount  Owing   0 . 00 

Produce   $  .20 

Expenditures: 

Shelter   $  30.00 

Food   5.76 

Clothing   11.25 

Miscellaneous: 

Education   2.00 


Total 


$  49.01 


HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 


183 


1j  73 


§1 


CO 


O  ^ 

^-^^-^ 

CQ 


m 
P 
Q 


£  ^  ^ 
H  +^ 
o 

^    .  "'^ 

^1 1 

c3  3  S 
0)  o 

' 


o 


1^  s 


N  «3 


CO  1-5 


•St? 


S3« 


A 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


02  o3 


«  fr.  p 


Q  02  o_o 


1  CQ  ^ 


w  o  ^ 

73  O 


CO  pq  ;^  H-5 


CD 


o  c3 


p:^  H     h-i  Q 


HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 


185 


ng 

(M 

1— 1 

Clol 

1—1 

o 
o 

o 

lO 

Foot 

o 
o 

o 
o 

Shelt 

o 

CO 

o 

CO 

186 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


.2  »2 


p 

O 
O 
O 

w 

< 


■   O   o3  O 


a 


§1 


HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 


187 


o   .  o 


S  3 


5C 


;3  OJ 


O 
P 
Q 
O 

P4 


O  c3  f3 


188 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


o 
o 


Groceries 
and 
miscellaneous 

C5 

(M 

Fruits  and 
vegetables 

O  O 
O  (M 

Meat  and 
eggs 

CO 

o 

1916 
Date 

(N  CO 

May 

;3  .S  b 


is  Jr!  ^3 

a  ft  2 

O)  o  g 

OJ  O 

73  ^  n3 

a;  ^ 

J-i  C 

•33  0^2 


ill 

o 

O)  o  « 
bO  « 
ca  bC  c3 
ft  S  0) 

c 

^  2 

S  a>  ft 


t-:i 


g  o 

^ 

§  S  8 

n  ,  C3 
^3  o 

CO 

K 
O 


o 
o 

o 

CO 

1916 
Date 

May 

HOUSEHOLD  RECORDS 


189 


3  s 

a  c 


o  o 


=3  T' 


O 

o 

CZ2 


Education 

o 
o 

1916 
Date 

May 

190 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


References 

Frederick,  Christine.   The  New  Housekeeping.  1913. 
Pattison,  Mary.   Principles  of  Domestic  Engineering.  1915. 
Sheaffer,  WiUiam  Adam.   Household  Accounting  and  Economics.  1916. 
Bradford,  Edith  Fleming.   Household  Accounts.     Cornell  Reading  Course 
for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  110.  1916. 


CHAPTER  VII 


HEAT  AND  LIGHT 

The  enormous  waste  of  fuel  in  the  homes  of  this  country  is 
coming  to  claim  the  attention  of  thoughtful  householders.  In 
both  the  heating  of  dwellings  and  the  cooking  of  food,  careful 
choice  of  equipment,  intelligent  operation,  and  forethought  in 
planning  will  go  far  toward  saving  one  of  the  world's  most 
valuable  conamodities. 

CARE  OF  FIRES 

A  few  general  rules  for  controlling  heating  and  cooking  fires 
are  as  follows: 

1.  To  increase  the  amount  of  heat,  open  drafts  which  let  air  into  the 
ash  pit,  and  with  soft  coal  and  wood  when  fresh  fuel  has  been  added  admit 
some  air  by  draft  immediately  over  the  fire  to  help  burn  the  combustible 
gases  coming  from  the  fresh  fuel.  For  all  fires  burning  without  flame  keep 
this  draft  closed. 

2.  To  decrease  the  amount  of  heat,  close  all  drafts  tight,  being  sure  that 
ash-pit  door  and  drafts  particularly  are  tight  and  that  the  ash  pit  itself  is 
free  from  air  leaks;  if  this  is  not  sufScient,  open  a  check  draft  in  the  smoke 
pipe — never  the  one  in  the  fire  door  or  the  door  itself,  as  this  practice  is  ex- 
tremely wasteful  of  fuel. 

3.  To  insure  economy  of  fuel,  see  that  all  flues  and  surfaces  which  the 
hot  gases  pass  on  their  way  to  the  chimney  are  cleaned  every  tw^o  or  three 
weeks. 

4.  Be  very  careful  in  the  use  of  the  damper  which  closes  off  the  smoke 
pipe,  as  such  a  damper  is  dangerous  if  closed  too  tight  and  can  be  left 
wide  open  or  taken  out  entirely  provided  the  ash  pit  is  tight  and  the  above 
directions  are  followed. 

5.  Keep  the  direct  draft  in  a  cooking  stove  or  range  closed  except  in  hot 
weather,  or  when  starting  a  fire. 

RADIATION  * 

Hot  objects,  like  stoves  and  steam  pipes,  lose  much  of  their 
heat  by  radiation,  and  the  blacker  the  object  the  more  it  will 


*  From  U.  S.  Bur.  Standards,  Circ.  55. 
191 


192 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


lose;  hence,  stoves  and  steam  pipes  should  be  black  if  they  are 
intended  to  give  out  heat,  but  hot-air  pipes  and  cooking  uten- 
sils should  be  bright,  for  example  tinned  or  nickeled,  in  order  to 
lose  as  little  heat  as  possible.  A  stove  nickel  plated  all  over  will 
give  out  only  about  half  as  much  heat  as  the  same  stove  at  the 
same  temperature  if  black. 

A  bright  nickel  or  aluminum  kettle  will  cool  very  much  more 
slowly  than  a  black  kettle.  On  a  coal  or  wood  stove  or  directly 
over  a  coal  or  wood  fire,  a  kettle  is  heated  largely  by  heat  radi- 
ated from  the  stove  or  fire;  therefore,  if  the  bottom  is  black  the 
kettle  will  heat  more  rapidly  than  if  bright.  Over  a  gas,  gaso- 
line, or  similar  blue  flame  the  condition  of  the  bottom  will  not 
make  so  much  difference,  since  here  most  of  the  heat  is  received 
by  contact  with  the  hot  gases.  The  best  kettle  for  general 
use  is,  therefore,  one  with  the  bottom  black  and  the  remainder 
polished,  but  for  use  on  a  gas  stove  it  makes  little  difference 
whether  the  bottom  is  black  or  not. 

COMPARATIVE  COST  OF  VARIOUS  METHODS  OF  HEATING 

The  ideal  heating  system  is  one  that  will  give  a  uniform  tem- 
perature throughout  the  house,  if  desired.  Furnaces  are  more 
likely  to  produce  this  result  than  are  stoves. 

A  stove  seldom  heats  more  than  two  rooms  and  often  only 
one.  A  ^^drum,"  or  radiator,  for  utilizing  otherwise  wasted 
heat,  will  remove  the  chill  from  an  upstairs  room  but  generally 
will  not  give  warmth  enough  for  a  sitting-room.  The  care  of 
several  stoves  is  greater  than  that  of  one  central  plant. 


TABLE  X. — Comparison  Between  Stoves  and  Hot-air  Furnace 


Method  of 
heating 

Initial  cost 
including  in- 
stallation 

Coal  used  dur- 
ing one  year 

Number  of 
rooms  heated 

Temperature 

Two  stoves 

$90,  and 

12  to  14  tons 

5 

Uneven 

drums  for 

of  more  ex- 

upper rooms, 
$8 

pensive  coal 

Hot-air 

$100  to  $150 

8  to  12  tons 

S  to  10 

Fairly  even 

furnace 

HEAT  AND  LIGHT 


193 


A  hot-air  system  is  the  cheapest  system  to  install  but  the 
most  expensive  in  the  amount  of  fuel  used. 

A  steam  system  costs  about  twice  as  much  as  hot-air  but  it 
requires  less  fuel. 

A  hot-water  system  costs  about  three  times  as  much  as  hot- 
air  but  requires  less  fuel  than  does  either  a  hot-air  or  a  steam 
system. 

FACTORS  GOVERNING  CONSUMPTION  OF  FUEL  AND  CONVENIENCE 
OF  OPERATION  * 

Climate. 

Variable  weather  and  high  winds  make  difficult  the  economi- 
cal use  of  fuel  and  convenient  operation. 
Size  and  type  of  dwelling. 

Fuel  consumption  varies  with  the  size  of  the  house,  the  number 
of  rooms  heated,  the  thoroughness  of  construction,  to  a  certain 
extent  the  building  material,  and  the  distribution  of  the  radia- 
tors. 

Location  of  dwelling. 

A  house  standing  alone  on  a  hill  requires  much  more  heat  than 
one  in  a  closely  built  row  standing  in  a  hollow. 

Heating  and  ventilating  system  used. 

Convenience  of  operation  of  any  house-heating  apparatus  is 
largely  dependent  on  the  system  of  heating  and  ventilation  em- 
ployed. The  cost  of  heating  will  also  depend,  but  to  a  less  de- 
gree, on  the  type  of  equipment.  Fuel  economy  and  convenience 
are  against  a  separate  fire  in  each  room  unless  the  house  is  small 
or  only  a  small  part  of  it  is  to  be  warmed,  except  in  those  locali- 
ties where  natural  gas  is  available  at  low  rates  or  the  duration 
of  cold  weather  is  brief.  In  comparatively  few  homes  is  any 
special  provision  made  for  removing  the  foul  air,  leakage  from 
windows  and  doors  being  the  usual  reliance,  particularly  in  a 
house  heated  by  a  hot-air  furnace.    If  an  indirect  steam  or  hot- 

*  Condensed  from  Saving  Fuel  in  Heating  a  House.  L.  P.  Breckenridge 
and  S.  B.  Flagg.  Bur.  of  Mines,  U.  S.  Dept.  of  the  Interior,  Tech.  Paper  97. 


194 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


water  system  is  installed,  means  of  removing  foul  air  are  more 
frequently  provided,  either  by  vent  stacks  leading  into  the  attic 
or  through  the  roof,  with  register  openings  in  different  rooms,  or 
by  open  grates,  the  flues  for  which  can  be  equipped  with  damp- 
ers to  regulate  the  removal  of  foul  air.  The  system  some- 
times fails  to  work  satisfactorily  if  provision  is  not  made  for  the 
escape  of  foul  air  from  a  room,  as  the  fresh  warm  air  will  not  con- 
tinue to  flow  in  unless  an  equal  amount  escapes.  The  first  cost 
of  heating  by  the  hot-air  furnace  is  less  than  that  of  either  the 
steam  or  the  hot-water  system,  but  to  maintain  equal  tempera- 
ture conditions  may  require  the  burning  of  more  fuel,  whether 
the  furnace  heats  air  taken  from  outdoors  or  reheats  air  al- 
ready in  the  house.  Evidently,  reheating  air  will  require  less 
fuel,  and  consequently  less  attention  to  the  furnace,  than  heat- 
ing fresh  air,  but  the  ventilation  will  not  be  good.  In  homes 
heated  by  steam  or  hot  water,  the  method  of  heating,  whether 
direct  or  indirect,  and  the  provision,  if  any,  for  removing  foul 
air  will  affect  the  consumption  of  fuel,  which  will  vary  with  the 
percentage  of  the  total  radiation  that  is  indirect  and  with  the 
amount  of  warm  air  removed  through  vent  stacks  or  grates. 

A  furnace-heating  system  maintains  a  less  even  temperature 
because  less  heat  is  stored  in  it.  In  this  respect,  hot-water 
heating  has  a  distinct  advantage  over  both  steam  and  hot  air 
because  the  large  quantity  of  water  in  the  boiler,  pipes,  and 
radiators  can  maintain  the  temperature  throughout  the  house 
for  a  considerable  time  after  the  fire  dies  down.  In  addition, 
the  maintenance  of  an  even  temperature  in  mild  weather  is 
easier  with  the  hot-water  system  because  the  temperature  of 
the  water  in  the  radiators,  hence  the  amount  of  heat  given  off, 
can  be  controlled  within  wide  limits. 

Size  of  holler  and  furnace. 

If  to  supply  the  necessary  heat  requires  the  consumption  of 
20  pounds  of  fuel  an  hour  and  the  boiler  or  furnace  is  to  keep 
this  up  for  eight  hours  without  attention,  it  is  evident  that  the 
fire  pot  must  be  large  enough  to  hold  160  pounds  of  fuel,  and 
in  addition  the  quantity  necessary  to  rekindle  a  fresh  charge, 


HEAT  AND  LIGHT 


195 


this  quantity  being  ordinarily  assumed  to  be  20  per  cent  of  the 
quantity  of  fuel  in  the  fire  pot  after  the  firing,  or  in  this  case 
40  pounds.  Hence  the  fire  pot  must  hold  200  pounds  of  fuel 
and  still  leave  space  for  combustion. 

If  anthracite  coal,  bituminous  coal,  and  coke  are  available 
and  each  has  such  heating  value  that  20  pounds  of  it  will  be 
required  an  hour  to  supply  heat,  the  fire-pot  space  occupied 
by  an  eight-hour  charge  of  each  fuel  may  be  figured  by  dividing 
200  by  the  weight  a  cubic  foot  of  each  fuel,  the  space  thus  cal- 
culated being  approximately  3.6  cubic  feet  for  anthracite, 
4.0  cubic  feet  for  bituminous  coal,  and  5.7  cubic  feet  for  coke. 
Therefore,  if  the  fire  pot  were  designed  for  anthracite,  it  would 
hold  coke  enough  for  a  firing  period  of  approximately  five  hours 
instead  of  eight. 

Not  only  is  the  capacity  of  the  fire  pot  important,  but  its 
depth  should  receive  consideration.    If  the  full-rated  load  is 
to  be  carried  without  attention  to  the  fire  for  a  minimum  period 
of  eight  hours,  the  depth  of  the  fuel-bed  should  be  at  least 
12  inches.    A  heater  that  is  to.  burn  coke  should  be  designed 
for  a  greater  depth — probably  24  inches — on  account  of  the 
bulkiness  of  the  fuel  and  the  different  combustion  conditions 
required  for  burning  it  satisfactorily.  In  fact,  one  of  the  largest 
manufacturers  of  boilers  for  heating  houses  by  steam  or  hot 
water  now  designs  such  equipment  for  a  fuel-bed  18  inches 
deep  when  anthracite  is  to  be  used. 
!     Regarding  the  necessary  size  of  fire  pot,  another  detail  that 
!  affects  both  economy  and  convenience  of  operation  is  the  com- 
\  bustion  space  above  the  fuel-bed.   Any  unburned  combustible 
:  gases  that  leave  the  fire  pot  are* rapidly  cooled  in  passing  over 
I  the  heat-absorbing  surfaces  between  the  fire  pot  and  the  smoke 
i  pipe,  and  their  temperature  is  quickly  brought  below  that  nec- 
I  essary  for  ignition.    If  either  anthracite  coal  or  coke  is  to  be 
I  burned,  a  relatively  small  combustion  space  above  the  fuel- 
I  bed  will  be  required  because  combustion  takes  place  in  or  close 
to  the  fuel-bed.    If  bituminous  coal  is  to  be  used,  however, 
more  space  should  be  provided  for  "burning  the  combustible 
gases  rising  from  the  fuel-bed,  or  a  considerable  part  of  these 


196 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


gases  will  escape  unburned,  the  flue  surfaces  will  become  coated 
with  soot,  and  the  heat  losses  will  be  large. 

Another  important  detail,  if  bituminous  coal  is  to  be  used, 
is  the  cross  section  for  the  gas  passages  between  the  fire  pot 
and  the  smoke  pipe.  If  the  passages  are  not  large  enough,  the 
draft  may  be  cut  down  by  the  accumulation  of  soot  in  the  flues, 
possibly  to  such  an  extent  that  the  fire  will  go  out.  Also,  if 
bituminous  coal  is  to  be  used,  the  flues  should  be  of  such  size 
and  so  arranged  as  to  invite  frequent  and  easy  cleaning. 

Obviously,  if  the  heater  is  smaller  than  the  proper  size,  fire 
at  shorter  intervals  will  be  necessary,  drafts  will  have  to  be 
kept  open,  and  the  temperature  of  the  escaping  gases  will  be 
higher  than  if  a  heater  of  proper  size  is  installed — between 
375°  and  475°  F.  in  ordinary  winter  weather.  The  inconven- 
ience resulting  from  too  large  a  boiler  or  furnace  is  less  than 
from  one  under  size,  but  careful  handHng  will  be  necessary  to 
control  the  fire  satisfactorily  in  mild  weather. 

Each  heater  has  a  particular  capacity  at  which  its  efficiency 
is  highest,  but  if  the  heater  be  properly  designed,  within  a  cer- 
tain range  of  capacity  the  efficiency  will  be  practically  equal  to 
the  maximum.  The  equipment  selected  should  be  one  that  dur- 
ing most  of  the  heating  season  will  be  operated  within  these  lim* 
its,  but  will  take  care  of  maximum  demands  for  a  short  time. 

Kind  of  fuel  used. 

The  most  desirable  fuels  are,  as  a  rule,  the  most  expensive. 
It  may  be  possible  to  burn  some  of  the  smaller  sizes  of  anthra- 
cite with  the  furnace  or  egg  size  and  thus  effect  a  saving.  The 
price  a  ton  of  these  smaller  sizes  is  less  in  proportion  to  their 
calorific  value  because  they  are  in  less  demand  and  they  can 
be  used  to  advantage  in  banking  the  fire  overnight  or  in  carry- 
ing a  slow  fire  in  moderate  weather.  Pea  coal  is  probably  the 
best  size  for  such  use,  but  unfortunately  it  and  the  smaller 
sizes  are  obtained  with  difficulty  in  many  of  the  markets  where 
the  larger,  or  domestic,  sizes  are  sold. 

Among  the  various  kinds  and  grades  of  bituminous  coal, 
the  differences  in  fuel  value  and  in  their  physical  character- 


HEAT  AND  LIGHT 


197 


istics  are  much  greater  than  among  anthracites,  and  for  that 
reason  should  receive  especial  attention.  In  every  locality  a 
number  of  coals  will  be  available  and  the  most  satisfactory 
one  in  any  particular  case  will  usually  have  to  be  determined 
by  trial,  unless  the  characteristics  of  each  and  the  effects  of 
these  are  known. 

Uniformity  of  size  is  a  desirable  characteristic,  as  it  permits 
easier  control  of  the  fire.  This  is  particularly  true  of  anthracite, 
a  mixture  of  sizes  often  accounting  for  poor  results  from  a  cer- 
tain lot  of  coal.  Sized  or  screened  bituminous  coal  may  be 
bought  for  its  greater  convenience,  even  though  its  cost  may 
exceed  that  of  lump  coal  or  run-of-mine.  In  some  localities 
slack  coal  has  been  burned  successfully,  although  it  is  believed 
that  this  would  not  ordinarily  be  possible  because  of  the  strong 
draft  required. 

Care  of  furnace. 

The  heater  should  receive  regular  attention,  and  if  the  de- 
mands for  heat  are  intelligently  anticipated,  as  they  ordinarily 
can  be,  the  house  can  be  warmed  with  minimum  trouble  and 
fuel.    When  the  rooms  become  too  warm,  the  fire  should  be 
checked  by  stopping  the  admission  of  air  under  the  grate  and 
decreasing  the  draft  by  opening  the    check  damper."    If,  as 
often  is  done,  the  ash-pit  damper  or  the  ash-pit  door  be  allowed 
I  to  remain  open,  and  the  draft  reduced  by  opening  the  fire  door, 
1  the  combustion  of  the  fuel  continues,  although  at  a  slower  rate, 
'  but  the  cold  air  entering  the  fire  door  chills  the  heater  so  that 
j  little  heat  is  realized  from  the  coal. 

Sometimes  the  draft  is  so  strong  that  the  difficulty  of  con- 
trolling the  fire  is  increased,  especially  when  the  demand  for 
heat  is  small  or  the  fire  is  to  be  banked.  To  facilitate  control 
under  such  conditions,  it  is  usually  advisable  to  have,  besides 
the  check  damper,  a  plain  damper  in  the  smoke  pipe.  This 
damper  should  fit  the  smoke  pipe  loosely  and  must  never  be  en- 
jtirely  closed;  during  most  of  the  heating  season  it  can  be  kept 
i  partly  closed,  but  during  severe  weather,  when  more  heat  is 
[|  required,  it  can  be  opened  wide.   Sometimes  the  draft  may  be 


198  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


insufficient  to  burn  the  necessary  quantity  of  the  particular 
fuel  used.  If  such  a  condition  is  always  noticed  in  severe 
weather,  the  heater  may  be  too  small,  the  smoke  pipe  may  be 
choked  or  be  poorly  fitted  to  the  heater  or  to  the  chimney,  or 
the  chimney  may  be  too  small  or  be  obstructed  by  soot  or  debris. 

If  the  draft  trouble  proves  to  be  due  to  leaky  connections  or 
to  obstructions,  it  can  readily  be  corrected.  If  the  heater  or  the 
chimney  is  too  small,  the  difficulties  may  be  lessened  either  by 
firing  more  frequently  and  keeping  the  fuel-bed  thinner,  or  by 
using  larger  coal,  or  fairly  uniform  size,  in  order  that  the  air 
may  more  easily  flow  through  the  fuel-bed.  Conversely  if  the 
draft  is  very  strong,  a  smaller  size  of  coal  may  possibly  be  used 
to  good  advantage.  Under  no  circumstances  should  the  top  of 
the  chimney  be  lower  than  the  highest  part  of  the  roof,  or  a 
current  of  air  may  be  forced  down  the  chimney  and  the  base- 
ment be  filled  with  smoke  when  the  wind  blows  in  certain 
directions.  Similar  trouble  may  be  experienced  if  the  chimney 
is  not  as  high  as  an  adjoining  building. 

If  the  bottom  of  the  ash  pit  is  on  a  level  with  the  floor,  or 
only  a  short  distance  below  the  grates,  as  is  ordinarily  the  case, 
ashes  cannot  be  allowed  to  accumulate  under  the  grates  for 
more  than  two  days,  or  possibly  more  than  one  day,  except  in 
moderate  weather. 

Brightly  tinned  hot-air  furnace  pipes  often  lose  less  heat 
when  bare  than  they  do  when  covered  with  one  or  two  layers  of 
asbestos  paper,  since  the  latter  radiates  heat  so  much  more 
readily  than  the  bright  tin  as  more  than  to  balance  the  insulat- 
ing effect  of  the  thin  asbestos  covering.  Of  course  if  the  pipes 
were  originally  blaqk,  the  covering  would  be  useful,  and  if 
the  insulating  material  were  thick  enough  (^/s  inch  or  more) 
it  would  save  heat  even  on  bright  tin  pipes.* 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  FIRING  AND  CLEANING  A  FURNACE  t 

Suggestions  for  firing  and  cleaning  a  furnace  that  apply  re- 
gardless of  the  fuel  used  may  be  given  as  follows : 
*  U.  S.  Bur.  Standards,  Circ.  55. 

t  L.  P.  Breckenridge  and  S.  B.  Flagg.   U.  S.  Bur.  Mines,  Tech.  Paper  97. 


HEAT  AND  LIGHT 


199 


The  fire  should  be  attended  to  regularly,  and  not  left  until 
it  has  burned  low  and  heat  is  needed  throughout  the  house. 
Often  the  need  can  be  anticipated  and  by  attention  at  the  proper 
time  trouble  can  be  avoided.  In  addition,  economy  of  fuel 
is  more  likely  to  be  obtained  by  fairly  uniform  rates  of  burning 
than  by  attempting  to  supply  a  large  amount  of  heat  in  a  short 
period  and  then  suddenly  checking  the  fire. 

The  size  of  the  coal  fired  should  be  as  nearly  uniform  as  pos- 
sible. Using  coal  of  uneven  size  prevents  an  even  flow  of  air 
through  the  fuel-bed  and  increases  the  tendency  of  the  fire 
to  burn  through  in  spots. 

One  should  try  to  keep  the  fuel-bed  free  from  air  holes,  as 
they  cause  waste  of  fuel  and  may  prevent  the  heater  from  main- 
taining the  desired  temperature. 

Excessive  shaking  of  the  grates  should  be  avoided  and  thus 
the  amount  of  coal  lost  by  falling  into  the  ash  pit  reduced. 
Ordinarily,  the  shaking  of  the  grates  should  be  stopped  as  soon  as 
bright  particles  begin  to  drop  through  or,  under  some  conditions, 
as  soon  as  light  from  the  fuel-bed  begins  to  show  in  the  ash  pit. 

When  the  demand  for  heat  is  urgent  or  the  fire  must  be  built 
up  quickly,  the  fuel-bed  must  be  kept  uniformly  thick,  but  not 
too  thick,  using  the  coarser  part  of  the  coal  and  all  the  draft 
available.  Air  will  then  flow  freely  through  the  entire  fuel-bed 
and  burn  the  coal  at  a  maximum  rate.  Under  such  conditions, 
the  firings  should  be  made  at  frequent  intervals  and  small 
charges  used,  so  that  the  fresh  fuel  will  only  for  a  short  time 
chill  the  temperature  of  the  fire  pot.  When  heavy  firings  are 
made  the  fresh  fuel  not  only  increases  the  resistance  to  flow  of 
air  through  the  fuel-bed,  so  that  the  rate  of  combustion  is  low- 
ered, but  it  acts  as  a  cold  blanket  to  screen  the  heating  surfaces 
from  the  radiant  heat  of  the  fuel-bed. 

In  mild  weather  it  is  well  to  leave  on  the  grates  a  layer  of 
ashes  under  the  active  fuel-bed.  This  layer  will  increase  the 
resistance  to  the  flow  of  air  through  the  fuel-bed  and  facilitate 
the  maintenance  of  the  low  rate  of  combustion  required  in  such 
weather;  also,  it  will  cut  off  some  of  the  grate  surface. 

Clinkers  should  be  kept  worked  out  of  the  fuel-bed,  for  they 


200 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


obstruct  the  flow  of  air  through  it,  clog  the  grates,  and  may  break 
the  parts  of  shaking  grates. 

Heating  surfaces,  or  flues  as  they  are  sometimes  called  if  the 
heater  be  a  boiler,  must  be  swept  clean  so  that  they  will  readily 
absorb  heat.  Soot  cuts  down  the  heat-absorbing  power  of  any 
heating  surface  very  rapidly,  and,  therefore,  should  not  be  al- 
lowed to  accumulate.  Ashes  should  not  be  allowed  to  pile 
up  under  the  grates  in  the  ash  pit,  for  they  will  seal  off  the  air 
from  part  of  the  grate  surface  and  may  cause  the  grate-bars 
to  be  burned  and  warped. 

Coal  as  free  from  slate  and  ash  as  possible  should  be  pur- 
chased. 

ADVANTAGES  AND  DISADVANTAGES  OF  VARIOUS  FUELS 

Some  of  the  advantages  and  disadvantages  of  various  fuels 
for  residence  heating  have  been  mentioned.  These  and  some 
others  are  summarized  in  the  table  on  page  201: 

LIGHTING 

Although  electricity  is  in  many  ways  the  most  desirable  form 
of  artificial  light,  other  lights  may  still  have  certain  advantages. 
The  most  effective  use  of  any  type  of  light  should  be  studied  for 
both  economic  and  hygienic  reasons. 

Types  of  lights  and  their  care. 

Candles. 

The  use  of  candles  is  now  limited  almost  entirely  to  decora- 
tive lighting.  Candle  light  is  expensive  in  comparison  with 
other  lights. 

Kerosene. 

Kerosene  gives  a  soft  light  that  is  easy  on  the  eyes  if  it  is 
properly  shaded  by  a  slightly  bluish  chimney.  The  disadvan- 
tages of  kerosene  lighting  are  the  labor  of  cleaning  and  filling 
the  lamps,  the  odor  and  the  vitiation  of  the  air,  and  the  danger 
of  explosion.  Following  are  some  suggestions  for  the  care  of 
kerosene  lamps: 


HEAT  AND  LIGHT 


201 


TABLE  XI. — Advantages  and  Disadvantages  of  Various  Fuels  and  of  Electricity  i 


Fuel 


Wood . 


Anthracite . 


Bituminous  coal  .  . 


Subbituminous  coal 
and  lignite. 


Peat . . 
Coke. 


Oil. 


Gas  

Electricity.. 


Advantages 


(a)  Cleanliness,  (6)  cheerful  fire, 
(c)  quick  increase  of  heat,  (d) 
cheap  in  some  localities. 


(a)  Cleanliness,  (6)  easy  control 
of  fire,  (c)  easier  to  realize  heat 
in  coal  than  is  the  case  with 
other  coals,  (d)  steady  heat. 

(a)  Low  price,  (6)  availability, 
(c)  high  heat  value  (in  the  best 
grades),  (d)  low  percentage  of 

inert  matter  (in  the  best  grades). 

(a)  Relatively  low  price,  (b) 
availability  (in  some  regions), 
(c)  responds  quickly  to  opening 
of  drafts. 


(a)  In  general,  the  same  as  for 
wood. 

(a)  Cleanliness,  (6)  responds 
quickly  to  opening  of  drafts,  (c) 
fairly  high  heat  value, 

(a)  High  heat  value,  (b)  imme- 
diate increase  of  heat,  (c)  clean- 
liness, (d)  small  storage  space 
necessary. 

(a)  Ease  of  control,  (6)  cleanli- 
ness, (c)  convenience,  (d)  im- 
mediate increase  of  heat. 

(a)  Every  advantage  


Disadvantages 


(a)  Low  fuel  value,  (&)  large  stor- 
age space  necessary,  (c)  labor  in 
preparation,  (d)  scarcity,  (e)  does 
not  hold  fire  long,  (/)  unsteady 
heat. 

(a)  High  price,  (6)  difficulty  of  ob- 
taining, (c)  slower  response  to 
change  of  drafts. 

(a)  Dirty,  (6)  smoke  produced,  (c) 
more  attention  to  fire  and  furnace 
necessary  than  with  anthracite. 

(a)  Slakes  and  deteriorates  on  ex- 
posure to  air,  (6)  takes  fire  spon- 
taneously in  piles,  (c)  heat  value 
generally  low,  (d)  heat  in  fuel  dif- 
ficult to  realize,  (e)  fires  do  not 
keep  well,  (/)  gases  generated 
over  fire  pot  sometimes  burn  in 
smoke  pii>e,  causing  excessive 
heating. 

(a)  Low  heat  value,  (6)  bulkiness. 

(a)  Bulkiness,  (b)  liability  of  fire 
going  out  if  not  properly  handled, 
(c)  fire  requires  rather  frequent 
attention  unless  fire  pot  is  deep. 

(a)  High  price,  (6)  difficulty  of  safe 
storage. 


(a)  High  price  in  many  places, 
(a)  High  price. 


1  L.  P.  Breckenridge  and  S.  B.  Flagg.   U.  S.  Bur.  Mines,  Tech.  Paper  97. 

1.  Fill  lamps  daily  if  they  are  in  use.  Do  not  fill  them  too  full.  2.  Keep 
the  wicks  low  when  lamps  are  not  lighted.  3.  Do  not  turn  the  wicks  low 
when  the  lamps  are  lighted,  because  too  little  air  is  allowed  for  burning,  and 
ill-smelling  gases  are  given  off.  4.  Blow  out  a  lamp  by  a  cross-wise  motion 
at  the  top.  Do  not  blow  into  the  chimney.  A  paper  may  be  held  at  the 
top  on  one  side  and  a  current  of  air  directed  against  it.  5.  Occasionally  boil 
the  burners  in  a  solution  of  washing-soda  or  in  strong  soapsuds. 

Acetylene,  air  gas,  and  Blau  gas. 

Lighting  by  acetylene,  air  gas,  or  Blau  gas  is  fairly  common 
in  village  and  country  homes.  It  is,  however,  in  general  more 
expensive  than  the  gas  or  electric  light  available  in  larger  towns. 
Acetylene  gives  a  brilliant  white  light.  Its  greatest  disadvan- 
tage is  the  danger  of  explosion  from  careless  handling.  The 
products  of  combustion  are  not  given  off  in  great  amounts. 


202 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Gas. 

Mantles  should  always  be  used  on  gas  burners,  since  they 
give  much  more  and  a  steadier  light  for  a  given  amount  of  gas 
than  does  an  open  flame  (Fig.  46) .  The  saving  in  gas  will  more 
than  pay  for  the  lamp  and  mantles.  The  tubes  of  drop  lights 
and  stoves  should  be  handled  carefully  in  order  to  prevent  their 
cracking  and  allowing  gas  to  escape. 

Electricity.'^ 

Of  electric  lamps  three  kinds  are  common  in  household 


Inverted  manfle  Open  fJame  UprigW  mantle 


Fig.  46.* — Comparison  of  amount  of  light  given  by  different  gas  lamps.  Each 
lamp  is  supposed  to  burn  5  cubic  feet  an  hour,  costing  3^  cent  if  gas  is 
$1.00  a  1000  cubic  feet.  Note  that  the  mantle  lamp  gives  four  or  five  times 
as  much  light  as  the  open  flame.  The  inverted  mantle  gives  more  light 
downward  and  less  upward  than  the  upright  mantle. 


use.  These  are  the  ordinary  carbon,  the  metallized  carbon 
or  ''Gem/'  and  the  tungsten  lamp.  Nearly  all  of  the  last 
kind  sold  in  this  country  bear  the  trade  name  "Mazda." 
All  three  kinds  are  commonly  marked  with  the  number  of  watts 
(power)  they  take  when  used  at  the  number  of  volts  (electrical 
pressure)  also  marked  on  the  lamp.  When  electricity  is  paid 
for  at  a  certain  rate  a  kilowatt  hour,  the  cost  of  current  for  any 
lamp  is  easily  calculated.  The  kilowatt  hour  is  1000  watt  hours, 
and  the  number  of  watt  hours  used  by  any  electrical  device  is 
simply  the  watts  times  the  number  of  hours  burned.  For  ex- 
ample, a  50-watt  lamp  in  twenty  hours  uses  1,000  watt  hours 
or  1  kilowatt  hour;  at  10  cents  a  kilowatt  hour  current  for  such  a 
*  U.  S.  Bur.  Standards,  Circ.  55, 


HEAT  AND  LIGHT 


203 


lamp  costs  one-half  cent  an  hour.  This  is  true  of  any  50-watt 
lamp  without  regard  to  the  kind  of  filament  it  has.  The  amounts 
of  light  produced  by  different  kinds  of  filaments  are,  however, 
decidedly  different  (Fig.  47) .  If  the  voltage  supplied  is  lower  than 
the  lamps  are  intended  for,  the  watts  taken  by  the  lamps  are 
reduced  somewhat,  but  the  light  is  reduced  a  great  deal  more. 
The  amount  of  light  obtained  from  a  given  amount  of  electric 


 =  20  CANDLErPOW&R 

Fig.  47. — Comparison  of  amount  of  light  given  by  different  electric  lamps. 

For  comparison  a  consumption  of  50  watts  is  assumed,  although  tungsten 
lamps  are  not  usually  made  in  this  size.  Fifty  watts  at  10  cents  a  kilo- 
watt hour  costs  }/2  cent  an  hour,  and  gives  12  to  16  candles  in  a  carbon  lamp 
and  40  to  45  in  a  tungsten  lamp.  All  lamps  give  different  candle-power  at 
different  angles.  Each  arrow  in  the  figure  is  proportional  to  the  candle- 
power  in  its  direction. 

energy  depends,  therefore,  on  the  voltage.  Under  fair  conditions 
the  amount  of  light  and  the  corresponding  cost  for  current  (at 
10  cents  a  kilowatt  hour)  would  be  about  as  follows : 


TABLE  XII 


Kind  of  lamp 

Candles  per  watt 

Cost  for  1,000 
candle  hours 
in  cents 

Carbon 

0.25  to  0.33 

30  to  40 

Gem  

About  0.40 

25 

Tungsten 

0.80  to  1.00 

10  to  12.5 

From  a  60-watt  lamp,  for  example,  the  candle  power  obtained 
is  15  to  20  for  a  carbon  lamp,  24  for  the  Gem,  and  56  for  the 
tungsten. 


204 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Comparative  cost  of  various  common  lights  *  (Fig.  48). 

For  the  production  of  light  a  great  variety  of  lamps  are 
available,  and  in  some  kinds  remarkable  inprovements  have 
been  made  in  the  last  few  years.  These  improvements  have 
made  it  possible  in  many  cases  either  to  improve  the  lighting 
of  the  home  without  increasing  the  cost  or  to  reduce  the  cost. 

Can<iles   il^ZISISZiIiS™iSIII^^^™iSII 


K>eros6ne  f"lame  -  ■ 
Kerosene  Mantle 
Gas  Open  riame 
Gas  Tviantle  --- 
Carbon  Erlectric- 
'Gem*  Electric 
Ton^teh  trlectric 

6     5     »o    15     ao    a5     30    35  40 
Cost  0^1000  candle -hours  in  cents. 

Fig.  48. — Relative  cost  of  producing  a  given  amount  of 
light  by  various  illuminants  at  usual  prices.  Costs 
are  based  on  the  following  prices:  Candles,  12  cents  a 
pound;  kerosene,  15  cents  a  gallon;  gas,  $1  for  1000 
cubic  feet;  electricity  10  cents  a  kilowatt  hour.  The 
solid  lines  represent  cost  of  fuel  or  of  current,  the 
shaded  parts  the  cost  of  the  mantles  and  bulbs.  Where 
prices  are  different  from  those  given  above,  costs  will 
be  correspondingly  different. 

The  total  economic  gain  which  is  made  possible  by  doubling 
the  efficiency  of  production  of  light  is  alniost  incalculable.  To 
consider  only  one  item,  it  has  been  estimated  by  good  author- 
ities that  the  liberal  use  of  the  newer  lamps  might  reduce  the 
yearly  consumption  of  coal  in  the  United  States  by  $8,000,000. 
The  general  tendency  has  been,  however,  not  to  reduce  the 
amount  of  power  used,  but  rather  to  use  more  light.  The  abil- 
ity to  produce  so  much  more  light  without  increasing  the  cost 
has  'encouraged  the  development  of  methods  of  lighting  in 
which  attention  is  given  primarily  to  artistic  appearance  and 

*  U.  S.  Bur.  Standards,  Circ.  55. 


HEAT  AND  LIGHT 


205 


to  the  comfort  of  the  user  rather  than  to  getting  as  much  Hght 
as  possible  out  of  a  fixture. 

The  cost  of  Hghting  by  any  method  depends  to  some  extent 
on  local  conditions,  and  the  statements  of  cost  given  below  will 
apply  only  approximately  in  any  particular  case.  The  cost 
will  naturally  depend  on  the  candle  power  of  lamps  used  and 
the  time  the  lamps  burn.  In  order  to  make  comparisons  be- 
tween different  kinds  of  lamps,  it  is  convenient  to  consider  a 
definite  amount  of  lighting,  which  is  obtained  by  multiplying 
the  candle  power  of  the  lamps  burned  by  the  number  of  hours 
they  burn.  For  example,  1,000  candle-hours  of  lighting  may 
be  obtained  by  burning  a  10-candle  lamp  100  hours  or  a  50- 
candle  lamp  20  hours,  but  if  the  lamps  are  of  the  same  kind 
the  cost  will  be  about  the  same.  Calculations  of  the  cost  of 
producing  1,000  candle-hours  by  different  lamps  are  sometimes 
useful  in  choosing  between  lamps,  but  of  course  it  does  not 
necessarily  follow  that  the  lamp  for  which  this  cost  is  lowest  is 
most  economical  for  household  use. 

Methods  of  distributing  light. 

The  three  methods  of  lighting,  direct,  indirect,  and  semi- 
indirect,  are  dependent  for  their  efficiency  on  the  type  of  shade 
or  reflector  employed.  By  means  of  reflectors,  light  may  be 
concentrated  on  a  small  spot  or  spread  out  over  a  large  area. 

In  the  direct  method  of  Hghting,  the  light  falls  or  is  reflected 
directly  on  the  objects  to  be  lighted.  Although  the  maximum 
amount  of  light  is  furnished  by  this  method,  the  disadvantages 
of  a  Hght  that  is  too  brilliant  and  concentrated  are  now  recog- 
nized. If  a  drop  Hght  is  used  for  close  work,  it  is  advisable  at 
the  same  time  to  have  another  Hght  for  the  general  illumina- 
tion of  the  room  in  order  to  prevent  a  strain  on  the  eyes  pro- 
duced b}^  the  contrast  of  a  small  brilHantly  Hghted  area  in  a 
practically  dark  room. 

In  indirect  lighting  all  the  light  is  reflected  upward  by  an 
opaque  reflector  and^  returned  to  the  room  diffused  generally 
from  the  ceiling.  This  method  is  the  most  comfortable  for  the 
eyes,  but  the  most  expensive. 


206 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


In  semi-indirect  lighting  a  diffusing  bowl  allows  some  of  the 
light  to  pass  through  the  bowl  to  the  room  and  the  remainder 
to  be  thrown  up  to  the  ceihng.  This  is  a  good  method  for  the 
general  illumination  of  a  room. 


CHAPTER  VIII 


STOVES  AND  COOKERS 

Every  kitchen  should  be  equipped  with  a  good  range  and 
a  fireless  cooker.  If  a  coal  or  a  wood  range  is  used  in  combi- 
nation with  a  fireless  cooker,  the  two  should  be  near  enough 
together  to  prevent  much  loss  of  heat  in  transferring  the  food 
from  the  range  to  the  cooker.  Sometimes  the  two  pieces  of 
equipment  are  combined  in  gas  or  electric  stoves,  the  oven 
being  insulated  so  that  after  it  becomes  thoroughly  heated  the 
heat  may  be  retained  long  enough  to  cook  food  without  the 
use  of  more  fuel.  Such  stoves  are  more  expensive  than  the  or- 
dinary type,  but  the  saving  of  fuel  throughout  the  lifetime  of 
the  range  would  doubtless  justify  the  increased  cost  in  the  be- 
ginning. 

A  coal  or  wood  stove  which  is  used  in  winter  for  heating  as 
well  as  cooking  should  be  supplemented  by  a  kerosene  stove 
or  some  other  kind  that  will  help  to  keep  the  kitchen  cool  in 
hot  weather.  With  a  kerosene  stove  and  a  fireless  cooker,  the 
discomfort  of  a  hot  kitchen  in  summer  and  the  waste  of  un- 
necessary heat  may  be  avoided. 

Any  kind  of  kitchen  range  should  be  as  free  from  dirt-collect- 
ing crevices  and  grooves  as  possible.  In  selecting,  attention 
should  be  paid  to  the  possibilities  of  convenient  and  thorough 
cleaning. 

Kerosene,  gas,  and  electric  stoves  are  often  built  with  the 
oven  at  such  a  height  that  stooping  is  unnecessary.  There  is 
no  reason  why  such  a  location  should  not  be  better  in  every 
way  than  the  customary  one  which  has  been  borrowed  from 
coal  stoves.  Ovens  higher  than  the  working  surface  of  the 
stove  can  be  heated  quite  as  efficiently  with  these  fuels  as  when 
placed  below  the  main  surface  of  the  range.   A  good  height  for 

207 


208  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING  M 

working  surfaces  in  a  kitchen  is  34  inches  (page  110).  This  ap- 
plies to  cook  stoves  as  well  as  to  tables  and  sinks.  It  may  be 
necessary  to  raise  the  stove  on  blocks  to  bring  it  to  this  level. 
If  a  range  is  raised  on  feet,  it  should  be  at  such  a  height  that 
the  floor  underneath  can  be  reached  easily  for  cleaning.  It  may 
be  set  flat  on  the  floor.  Zinc  or  tiling  is  generally  placed  under 
the  stove,  extending  for  8  or  12  inches  beyond  the  edge  for 
protection. 

Drafts  in  kitchen  stoves. 

As  soon  as  the  fire  has  warmed  the  air  in  the  stove,  stove- 
pipe, and  chimne}',  the  heated  air  rises,  forced  up  by  the  cooler 
air  from  the  room  and  from  outside.  Admitting  air  below  the 
fire  box  gives  a  draft  and  helps  the  fire  to  burn.  Admitting 
air  through  the  opening  in  the  stovepipe  checks  the  draft  by  ad- 
mitting cold  air  and  by  causing  less  air  to  pass  through  the  stove. 

The  oven  and  the  hot-water  reservoir,  if  there  is  one,  are 
heated  by  opening  a  damper  which  allows  the  hot  smoke  from 
the  fire  box  to  pass  over  the  oven,  under  the  hot- water  reser- 
voir, under  the  oven,  then  up  behind  the  oven  and  into  the 
stovepipe. 

Utensils  for  fuel-saving.  \ 

Special  utensils  are  made  for  use  on  kerosene,  gas,  and  elec-  ! 
trie  stoves,  which  are  so  shaped  as  to  make  it  possible  to  cook  i 
two  or  three  foods  in  as  many  utensils  at  one  time  over  one  | 
burner.  \ 

A  pressure  cooker  cooks  food  in  from  one-third  to  one- 
fourth  the  usual  length  of  time.  Although  its  initial  cost  is  some- 
what high,  the  amount  of  fuel  that  may  be  saved  by  its  use 
during  a  year  greatly  decreases  this  cost. 

A  steamer  in  which  several  kinds  of  food  can  be  cooked  at 
the  same  time  over  one  burner  saves  fuel  if  the  meal  is  planned 
to  that  end. 

Selection  of  wood.  H 
In  general,  the  greater  the  dry  weight  of  a  non-resinous  wood, 
the  more  heat  it  will  give  out  when  burned.    Woods  having  | 


STOVES  AND  COOKERS 


209 


high  fuel  values  are  osage  orange,  locust,  hickory,  oak,  apple, 
black  birch,  yellow  birch,  hard  maple,  beech,  long-leaf  pine,  and 
cherry.  One  cord  of  wood  such  as  the  above,  weighing  when  dry 
about  3,500  to  4,000  pounds,  is  required  to  equal  the  heating 
value  of  one  ton  of  coal.  Of  other  woods,  such  as  ash,  black  wal- 
nut, short-leaf  pine,  hemlock,  red  gum,  sycamore,  or  soft  maple, 
which  weigh  about  2,500  to  3,400  pounds  a  cord,  it  requires 
about  a  cord  and  a  half  to  equal  one  ton  of  coal,  while  of  wood 
such  as  Norway  pine,  cypress,  basswood,  spruce  and  white  pine, 
two  cords  weighing  when  air  dry  2,000  to  2,500  pounds  each 
are  required. 

The  available  heat  value  of  a  cord  of  wood  depends  upon 
the  extent  to  which  it  has  been  dried.  If  the  wood  is  green 
part  of  the  heat  is  taken  up  in  evaporating  the  water. 
Therefore  the  drier  the  wood,  the  greater  is  the  available 
heat. 

A  cord  of  wood  occupies  128  cubic  feet  of  space.  If  air  spaces 
between  the  sticks  are  large,  if  the  sticks  are  of  small  diameter, 
finely  split,  or  twisted  and  knotty,  or  if  the  wood  is  loosely 
stacked,  less  wood  is  secured  in  a  cord.  If  necessary  to  burn 
wood  in  a  stove  or  furnace  intended  for  coal,  it  may  be  done 
by  covering  the  grate  partly  with  sheet  iron  in  which  holes 
have  been  punched,  or  with  fire  brick,  in  order  to  reduce  the 
draft.  If  this  is  not  done  the  wood  is  w^asted  by  being  con- 
sumed too  fast,  producing  a  hot  fire  w^hich  may  damage  the 
fire-box. 

Hickory  is  generally  first  choice  among  the  non-resinous 
woods,  because  of  the  high  fuel  value  to  a  unit  volume  of  wood, 
even  burning,  and  lasting  quality.  White  oak  is  next,  followed 
by  black  locust,  hard  maple,  beech,  birch,  and  ''white  ash.'^ 
The  white  pines  have  a  relatively  low  heat  value,  but  ignite 
readily  and  give  out  a  quick  hot  flame. 

Kerosene  stove. 

Kerosene  is  obtained  by  distilling  crude  petroleum  which  con- 
sists of  a  variety  of  inflammable  liquids.  The  more  volatile  it 
is,  the  more  brilliant  the  light.   Kerosene  which  can  be  heated 


210  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


to  140°  F.  without  yielding  a  vapor,  will  not  take  fire  even  if 
tfie  container  is  broken  and  oil  spilled. 

The  following  rules  for  operating  a  kerosene  stove  should  be 
observed:  Select  the  best  burners  possible;  do  not  blow  directly 
down  on  the  flame  but  blow  across  it ;  wash  burners  occasionally 
in  a  little  washing-soda  and  if  wicks  are  kept  clean,  smoke  may 
be  avoided;  do  not  leave  the  burners  with  the  flame  turned 
down;  change  the  wicks  when  they  become  clogged  with  im- 
purities; do  not  fill  the  kerosene  lamp  or  stove  near  a  fire  or 
burning  lamp;  burners  should  allow  air  to  gain  access  to  the 
wicks  to  create  a  current  to  carry  off  products;  air  holes  and 
tubes  should  be  free  from'  dust  and  dirt;  containers  should  be 
kept  nearly  full  but  if  too  full  the  oil  expands  with  the  heat  and 
oozes  out. 

Coal  range, 

A  coal  range  which  has  as  much  insulation  as  possible  should 
be  selected  to  avoid  waste  of  heat.  Over  90  per  cent  of  the  heat 
generated  in  the  ordinary  kitchen  range  is  usually  lost. 

Ashes  should  be  shaken  down  gently,  leaving  a  thin  layer  of 
half-burned  coal  in  the  bottom  of  the  grate,  or  if  the  coal  is 
burned  out,  a  thin  layer  of  fresh  coal  may  be  placed  upon  the 
bottom  of  the  grate.  Usually  a  half  turn  of  the  grate  is  sufii- 
cient  to  shake  down  the  ashes  without  shaking  out  any  half- 
burned  coal. 

In  keeping  a  fire  in  a  range,  it  is  better  to  add  a  small  amount 
of  coal  each  time  and  fire  often.  The  bed  of  live  coals  should  not 
be  entirely  covered  with  coal  but  spaces  should  be  left  through 
which  enough  heat  can  pass  to  fire  the  gases  as  they  distill  off 
from  the  new  coal;  gases  that  go  up  the  chimney  are  lost. 

The  grates  should  be  kept  clean  and  clear  of  clinkers,  and 
caking  of  ashes  and  cinders  at  the  bottom  of  the  fire  should  be 
avoided. 

In  kindling  a  fire,  crumpled  paper  or  shavings  may  be  used, 
across  which  kindling  is  laid  in  a  way  to  provide  air  spaces; 
a  few  pieces  of  hard  wood  are  added  to  the  kindling  and  a  little 
coal,  followed  by  more  later. 


STOVES  AND  COOKERS 


211 


Gas  range. 

Gas-stove  burners  should  be  adjusted  so  that  the  blue- 
green  central  part  of  the  flame  is  about  half  the  height  of  the 
entire  flame.  If  the  flame  is  very  long  and  is  bright  yellow  in 
parts,  too  little  air  is  being  admitted;  if  short  and  inclined  to 
make  a  slight  roaring  noise,  there  is  too  much  air.  In  the  latter 
case  the  flame  is  liable  to  ''  strike  back/'  under  which  condition 
much  carbon  monoxide  is  formed.  In  all  gas  burners  the  vari- 
ous openings  should  be  kept  clean.  The  amount  of  air  suppHed 
to  gas  burners  is  usually  adjusted  by  means  of  a  small  damper 
or  slide  to  be  found  at  the  base  of  the  burner. 

Insulated  ovens. 

It  is  estimated  that  90  per  cent  of  heat  supplied  for  baking 
in  ovens  is  lost  through  the  sides  of  the  oven.  A  considerable 
saving  of  heat  can  be  effected  by  insulating  the  oven,  as  is  done 
in  the  case  of  most  electric  and  some  gas  ovens.  An  ordinary 
gas  oven  may  be  fairly  well  insulated  by  means  of  sheet  as- 
bestos cut  to  fit  all  the  sides  with  the  possible  exception  of  the 
one  occupied  by  the  door,  and  attached  by  wires  to  the  corners 
of  the  oven. 

The  so-called  automatic  cookstove,  or  insulated  oven,  has  the 
advantage  over  the  ordinary  fireless  cooker  of  being  still  more  eco- 
nomical in  regard  to  heat  and  labor  and  of  eliminating  an  addi- 
tional piece  of  equipment  in  the  kitchen,  because,  as  ordinarily 
made,  it  has  top  burners  also,  and  hence  takes  the  place  of  the 
usual  range.  In  the  commercial  insulated  oven,  both  the  pre- 
liminary heating  of  the  food  and  the  complete  cooking  process  are 
accomplished;  consequently,  both  the  loss  of  heat  occasioned  by 
transferring  the  food  container  from  the  stove  to  the  cooker  and 
the  labor  of  this  motion  are  eliminated.  Moreover,  the  walls  of 
the  oven  itself  are  heated  and  do  not  draw  the  heat  from  the 
food.  There  are  now  on  the  market  insulated  ovens  adapted  to 
the  use  of  gas,  elect ricit}^,  and  kerosene.  The  heat  supply  in 
some  of  these  ovens  is  controlled  by  a  dial  hand  that  may  be 
adjusted  for  the  number  of  minutes  for  which  the  heat  is  re- 
quired, at  the  end  of  which  time  the  heat  is  cut  off  without 


212  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


TABLE  XIII. — General  Cooking  Processes  * 


Method  of 
cooking 

Definition 

Coal  or  wood 
range 

Gas  stove 

(1)  Dry  heat 
Broiling 

Cooking  slices  or  small  pieces 
of  meat  or  fowl  by  hot  air 
from  red-hot  coals  or  flame. 

Pan  broiling:  cooking  on 
heated  m.etal. 

Over  bed  of  hot 
coals. 

In  heated  frying 
pan  on  stove. 

Under  broiler  of 
gas  oven. 

In  heated  frying 
pan. 

(2)  Roasting 

Cooking  large  pieces  or  whole 
carcass  of  meat  or  fowl  by  hot 
air  from  open  fire  or  in  hot 
oven.    No  water  added. 

In  very  hot  oven. 

Under  broiler  or 
in  very  hot  oven. 

(3)  Baking 

Cooking  meat,  vegetables,  or 
batters  and  doughs  by  hot  air 
of  oven. 

Baking  of  batters  on  hot  pan 
or  stone. 

Oven  of  range. 
Griddle  on  top  of 
stove. 

Gas  oven  or  grid- 
dle on  top  of  burn- 
er. 

(4)  Toasting 

Browning  surface  of  flour 
mixtures  over  fire. 

Over  bed  of  hot 
coals  or  over  heat 
from  metal  top. 

On  heated  metal 
stand  over  burner 
or  under  oven 
broiler 

(5)  Browning 

Heating  of  flour  to  brown  in 
the  first  or  last  period  of  cook- 
ing of  dredged  meat  or 
crumbed  dish. 

In  hot  oven. 

In  hot  oven  or 
under  broiler. 

(6)  Moist  heat 
Boiling 

Cooking  by  immersing  in 
water  which  is  bubbling  well. 

In  kettle  on  top 
of  stove. 

In  kettle  over 
burner. 

(7)  Simmering 

Cooking  in  hot  water  that 
slightly  bubbles  but  does  not 
boil. 

In  kettle  or  pan 
on  stove  or  in 
double  boiler. 

In  kettle  or  pan 
over  small  burn- 
er. In  double 
boiler. 

(8)  Stewing 

Long,  slow  cooking  or  sim- 
mering of  meat,  fish,  poultry. 

In  partly  closed 
kettle  on  back  of 
stove. 

In  partly  closed 
kettle  over  low  bur- 
ner. 

(9)  Steaming 

Cooking  in  steam  above  boil- 
ing water. 

In  steamer  over 
kettle  on  stove. 

In  steamer  over 
kettle  on  burner. 

(10)  Poaching 

Cooking  of  eggs  or  egg  mix- 
tures in  hot  water — boiling  as 
they  are  dropped  into  it  and 
simmering  to  cook. 

In  saucepan  or 
iron  frying  pan  on 
range. 

In  saucepan  or 
iron  frying  pan 
over  burner. 

(11)  Braising 

Cooking  of  meat  by  a  com- 
bination of  baking  and  stew- 
ing. Bake  in  hot  oven  15 
minutes,  add  water  and  con- 
tinue cooking. 

Oven. 

Oven. 

(12)  In  heated 
fat 
Frying 

Cooking  by  immersing  in  hot 
fat. 

In  frying  kettle 
on  stove. 

In  frying  kettle 
over  burner. 

(13)  Sauteing 

Cooking  in  frying  pan  in 
small  amount  of  fat,  searing 
and  turning  often. 

In  frying  pan  on 

In  frying  pan  over 
burner. 

(14)  Fricas- 
seeing 

Cooking  of  flesh  food  by 
sauteing  and  then  stewing. 

In  frying  pan  on 
stove. 

In  frying  pan 
over  burner. 

(15)  Casserole 
cooking 

Fricasseeing  in  oven.  Brown 
in  fat  in  frying  pan,  place  in 
covered  earthenware  or  glass 
dish  and  cook  several  hours 
in  oven. 

Top  of  stove  and 
in  slow  oven. 

Top  of  stove  and 
in  slow  oven. 

*  Anna  M.  East 


STOVES  AND  COOKERS  213 


TABLE  XIII. — General  Cooking  Processes — Continued 


Oil  stove 

Open  fire 

Fireless  cooker 

Pressure  cooker 

In   heated  frying 
pan. 

Before  open  fire 
in  fireplace. 

Over  open  camp 
fire. 

(1) 

In  very  hot  oven. 

On  spits  or  crane 
over  open  fire. 

(2) 

Oven    or  griddle 
over  burner. 

Dutch  oven  or  on 
griddle  over  fire. 

By  means  of  heat- 
ed stones. 

(3) 

On  heated  metal 
stand  over  burner. 

Held  in  wire  rack 
before  open  fire. 

(4) 

In  hot  oven. 

(5) 

In     kettle  over 
burner. 

pended  over  fire. 

heated  stone. 

(6) 

In  -kettle  or  pan. 
[n  double  boiler. 

In  kettle  or  in 
double  boiler  over 
fire. 

In  kettle  of  cook- 

(7) 

In   partly  closed 
kettle  over  low 
burner. 

In  closed  kettle 
on  heated  racks 
in  open  fire. 

Best  use  of  fire- 
less  cooker. 

(8) 

In   steamer  over 
kettle  on  burner. 

In  steamer  over 
kettle  on  open  fire. 

Pudding  can,  set 
in  boihng  water. 

Set  in  rack  above  (9) 
water    in  pressure 
cooker. 

^  In    saucepan  or 
iron  frying  pan 
over  burner. 

(10) 

Oven. 

Dutch  oven. 

Brown  first  and 
put  in  cooker. 

Brown  first  and  put(ll) 
in  cooker. 

In    frying  kettle 
over  burner. 

_  In  suspended  fry- 
ing kettle. 

(12) 

In  frying  pan  over 
burner. 

In  frying  pan 
over  fire. 

(13) 

In  frying  pan  over 
burner. 

Brown  in  fat  and 
put  in  cooker. 

Brown  in  fat  and  (14) 
put  in  cooker. 

Top  of  stove  and 
oven. 

(15) 

A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


further  attention.  A  large  insulated  oven,  modeled  somewhat  : 
like  an  ordinary  gas  stove,  is  more  expensive  than  is  a  fireless  \ 
cooker;  but  the  cost  of  a  moderate-sized  range  with  an  insu- 
lated oven  is  practically  the  same  as  that  of  both  a  gas  range  and  I 
a  fireless  cooker.  This  is  a  subject  worthy  of  investigation  by  i 
one  who  is  purchasing  new  kitchen  equipment. 

Fireless  cookers."^  | 

The  commercial  fireless  cooker  costs  more  than  does  the 
home-made  one;  on  the  other  hand,  it  is  likely  to  be  more  j 
durable,  it  seldom  has  any  absorbent  material  exposed  to  the  J 
odor  and  the  steam  from  food,  the  cooking  compartment  can  ) 
be  kept  clean  more  easily,  and  it  is  frequently  provided  with  a  \ 
ventilating  valve  or  some  such  device  that  makes  baking  and 
roasting  possible.  However,  the  home-made  fireless  cooker  has  i 
proved  to  be  wholly  satisfactory  for  such  foods  as  cereals,  vege-  I 
tables,  dried  fruits,  custards,  fowls,  and  certain  cuts  of  meat.      •  J 

There  is  practically  no  danger  of  fire  from  a  home-made 
cooker  unless  very  hot  radiators  are  used.   Since  thermometers 
are  not  used  in  the  average  home,  and  the  radiators  may  be  i 
heated  to  an  unnecessarily  high  temperature,  it  seems  safest  li 
to  advise  against  the  use  of  radiators  unless  the  insulator  is  not  t 
inflammable.    Under  no  conditions  can  a  very  hot  radiator  i! 
above  the  food  be  safe,  because  it  is  too  near  the  muslin  of  the  i 
cushion.   While  baking  is  impossible  without  the  use  of  radia-  | 
tors,  there  are  suflScient  other  processes  for  which  the  home- 
made cooker  may  be  used,  to  warrant  the  trouble  and  the  small  i 
cost  of  making  one. 

The  cost  of  a  home-made  fireless  cooker  may  range  from 
about  $1.50  to  $8.00  or  more,  depending  on  the  materials  used.  !  i 
If  several  sizes  of  ahiminum  pails  with  clamps  are  bought  for  " 
food  containers,  the  cost  may  equal  that  of  a  small  commercial  j 
cooker.  In  buying  a  fireless  cooker  the  following  points  should  '  ^ 
be  considered:  insulation,  exterior  case,  interior  lining,  cooking 
utensils,  vent  valve,  hot  plates,  locks  and  hinges,  size,  and  cost.  |  iri 

*  Canon,  Helen,  and  Brewer,  Lucile.  The  Fireless  Cooker  and  Its  Uses.  |j 
Cornell  Reading-Course  for  the  Farm  Home^  Bull.  95.  j  { 


STOVES  AND  COOKERS 


215 


The  following  materials  and  utensils  are  needed  for  making 
a  fireless  cooker  (Fig.  49) : 

For  the  case,  or  cabinet:  A  wooden  box,  a  trunk,  an  ice  box,  a  galvanized 
iron  ash-can,  a  wooden  candy-bucket,  or  the  like.  Any  kind  of  case  that  is 
used  should  be  provided  with  a  tight-fitting  cover.    If  an  ordinary  box  is 


Fig.  49. — Diagram  of  a  home-made  fireless  cooker. 
A,  outer  case;  B,  cushion;  C,  cooking  com- 
partment; D,  food  container;  E,  packing 
material. 


used,  it  should  be  of  sufficiently  heavy  material  to  permit  the  use  of  good 
hinges  and  fastenings. 

For  the  lining  of  the  case:  Sheet  asbestos  1/8  inch  thick,  or  heavy  wrapping 
paper. 

For  packing  material:  Ground  cork,  sawdust,  excelsior,  mineral  wool, 
paper  torn  in  small  pieces  and  crumpled,  powdered  asbestos,  shavings,  straw, 
hay,  wool,  cotton  batting,  or  some  such  non-conducting  material.  Mineral 
wool  and  powdered  asbestos  are  both  good  non-conductors  of  heat,  and 
they  have  the  additional  merit  of  not  being  inflammable;  but  they  are 
harder  to  work  with  than  are  the  other  materials.  Gloves  should  be  worn 
by  the  person  doing  the  packing,  and  care  should  be  taken  not  to  allow  the 
material  to  enter  the  nose  and  the  mouth. 

For  the  cooking  compartment:  A  deep  bucket  or  kettle  of  agate,  galvanized 
iron,  or  tin,  of  such  a  size  that  there  may  be  a  space  of  at  least  three  inches 
between  the  case  and  the  top,  the  bottom,  and  the  sides  of  the  bucket. 
This  bucket  or  kettle  should  have  a  tight-fitting,  flat  cover.  In  place  of  a 
bucket,  two  thicknesses  of  1/16-inch  sheet  asbestos  or  heavy  wrapping  paper 


216 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


may  be  shaped  to  form  the  cooking  compartment;  but  a  bucket  is  more 
durable  and  can  be  kept  in  a  more  sanitary  condition. 

For  the  cooking  utensil :  A  covered  kettle  or  bucket  of  agate  or  aluminum, 
of  a  size  suitable  for  the  amount  of  food  ordinarily  to  be  cooked  in  it.  The 
utensil  should  be  durable,  and  free  from  crevices  and  seams  in  which  particles 
of  food  and  harmful  micro-organisms  may  lodge,  and  it  should  be  supplied 
with  a  tight-fitting  cover  that  can  be  clamped  down.  Seamless  aluminum 
is  perhaps  most  commonly  used  for  this  purpose.  Special  fireless-cooker 
utensils  can  generally  be  obtained  from  a  local  hardware  dealer  or  a  firm 
that  manufactures  fireless  cookers. 

For  the  collar  to  cover  the  packing  material:  A  piece  of  zinc,  cardboard, 
sheet  asbestos,  or  muslin,  of  such  a  shape  as  to  fit  the  space  between  the 
case  and  the  bucket  that  serves  as  the  cooking  compartment.  Zinc  is  good 
for  this  purpose  because  it  does  not  tear  with  constant  use  as  do  the  other 
materials,  it  can  be  washed,  it  does  not  rust,  and  it  is  not  inflammable. 

For  the  cushion :  Heavy  drilling,  denim,  or  muslin. 

For  the  hot  plates,  if  desired:  Flat  stones,  stove  lids,  or  special  soapstone  or 
metal  radiators.  Most  foods  can  be  cooked  without  the  use  of  hot  plates  or 
radiators,  but  a  higher  temperature  can  be  reached  and  a  cooking  tempera- 
ture prolonged  by  their  use.  Hot  plates  should  never  be  used  unless  the 
cooker  is  packed  with  non-inflammable  material,  such  as  mineral  wool  or 
asbestos. 

Directions  for  making  a  fireless  cooker  are  as  follows: 

(1)  Line  the  case  and  its  cover  with  sheet  asbestos  of  1  /8  inch  thickness. 
(2)  Pack  into  the  bottom  of  the  asbestos-lined  case  a  layer  at  least  3  inches 
deep  of  whatever  packing  material  is  to  be  used.  (3)  Place  the  bucket 
that  is  to  form  the  cooking  compartment  on  the  layer  of  packing  material 
in  the  bottom  of  the  case.  Pack  the  space  between  the  case  and  the  cooking 
compartment  closely  with  more  of  this  material,  filling  the  space  to  within 
^2  inch  from  the  top  of  the  bucket.  (4)  Make  a  collar  of  any  of  the  ma- 
terials suggested,  to  cover  the  exposed  surface  of  the  packing  material  be- 
tween the  case  and  the  cooking  compartment.  (5)  Make  a  cushion  of  some 
of  the  materials  suggested,  which  when  filled  with  the  packing  material 
will  be  at  least  three  inches  thick,  and  will,  as  exactly  as  possible,  fit  into 
the  space  between  the  top  of  the  cooking  compartment  and  the  top  of  the 
case.  Cut  from  the  material  two  pieces  of  the  desired  shape  and  size,  and 
put  them  together  with  a  straight  strip  of  the  desired  width,  with  extra 
allowance  for  seams. 

The  interior  of  the  fireless  cooker  should  be  kept  absolutely 
clean.  It  should  be  washed,  dried,  and  sunned,  if  possible,  each 
time  after  being  used.  It  should  remain  open  for  several  hours 
after  use,  and  it  should  never  be  tightly  closed  when  not  in  use. 
The  observance  of  these  precautions  prevents  the  food  from 


STOVES  AND  COOKERS 


217 


acquiring  an  unpleasant  taste  from  odors  or  remnants  of  food 
previously  cooked. 

For  convenience,  all  equipment  to  be  used  in  connection  with 
the  cooker,  such  as  hot  plates,  hooks,  racks,  and  cooking  uten- 
sils, should  be  kept  near  the  cooker.  A  shelf,  a  cupboard,  or  an 
improvised  cabinet  made  from  a  box  may  serve  as  a  convenient 
storage  place. 

The  cooker  itself  should  be  placed  near  the  stove,  both  to 
prevent  unnecessary  loss  of  heat  in  transferring  the  food  from 
the  stove  to  the  cooker  and  to  save  labor  on  the  part  of  the 
worker. 

The  soapstone  radiators,  when  not  in  use,  may  be  kept  warm 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  or  in  the  sun  in  order  to  reduce  the 
length  of  time  required  to  bring  them  to  the  desired  temperature 
when  they  are  needed. 

The  fireless  cooker,  like  any  other  piece  of  equipment,  should 
be  used  intelligently  in  order  that  the  best  results  may  be  ob- 
tained. As  previously  stated,  for  certain  cooking  processes 
and  under  certain  conditions,  it  may  be  no  more  economical 
in  fuel,  time,  or  labor,  than  is  the  ordinary  range;  therefore, 
fireless  cookery  should  be  studied  carefully  by  the  housewife 
in  order  that  she  may  discover  its  best  applications.  A  few 
experiments  with  various  kinds  of  foods,  based  on  recipes 
adapted  to  the  use  of  a  fireless  cooker,  are  necessary  in  order 
to  give  one  the  desired  mastery. 

The  efficiency  of  insulation,  the  quantity  of  food,  and  the 
rapidity  of  the  transfer  from  the  stove  to  the  cooker,  influence 
the  length  of  time  required  for  the  cooking.  The  temperature 
to  which  the  radiator  is  heated  also  determines  to  a  certain 
extent  the  length  of  time  the  food  should  remain  in  the  cooker. 
The  period  that  gives  the  best  results  is  more  or  less  definite 
for  each  food.  However,  since  individual  tastes  differ,  definite 
statements  in  regard  to  the  required  time  should  be  verified  for 
each  household. 

Care  should  be  given  to  correct  proportions,  because  there  is 
no  opportunity  for  the  evaporation  of  excess  moisture  in  the 
cooker. 


218 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Foods,  such  as  pancakes,  that  require  rapid  cooking  over 
a  hot  fire,  are  not  well  suited  to  the  fireless-cooker  method. 
Biscuits  may  be  baked  successfully  in  the  cooker,  but  since  the 
heat  required  to  raise  the  radiators  to  the  proper  temperature 
will  bake  the  biscuits  in  an  ordinary  oven,  there  seems  to  be  no 
justification  for  its  use  in  this  case.  However,  for  foods  that 
require  long  cooking  in  order  to  be  made  more  palatable  and 
digestible,  the  fireless  cooker  is  admirably  suited.  Cereals 
such  as  rolled  oats,  cracked  wheat,  and  hominy,  give  excel- 
lent results  when  cooked  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water  in 
a  fireless  cooker  (page  506).  The  tough  cuts  of  meat,  which 
require  long  cooking  at  a  low  temperature  in  order  to  be  made 
palatable  are  good  when  properly  cooked  in  a  fireless  cooker. 
Steamed  breads  and  puddings  are  well  adapted  to  this  method. 

Hot  beverages  and  sauces  may  be  set  aside  in  the  cooker  to  be 
kept  hot  for  serving. 

The  use  of  the  fireless  cooker  for  canning  fruits  is  recom- 
mended by  some.  The  juices  of  fruits  may  be  satisfactorily 
extracted  for  jelly-making.  Various  conditions,  however,  de- 
termine the  practicability  of  its  use  for  this  purpose. 

As  a  means  of  enabling  one  to  have  warm  water  at  hand 
without  keeping  a  fire,  the  fireless  cooker  is  of  use  in  homes 
where  there  is  no  boiler  connected  with  the  range,  and  especi- 
ally when  the  fuel  used  is  coal  or  wood,  which  necessitates 
building  a  fire. 

Tables  of  proportions  and  time  of  cooking  foods  in  a  fireless 
cooker  are  given  in  Table  XIV  on  page  219. 

Thermos  bottles. 

Thermos  bottles  may  be  used  as  miniature  fireless  cookers 
for  a  small  amount  of  cereal  or  other  food  requiring  long,  slow 
cooking. 


STOVES  AND  COOKERS  219 


TABLE  XIV. — Time-Table  for  Use  with  a  Fireless  Cooker 


Food 

Propor- 
tion of 
food  to 
water 

Minutes 
for  hoiling 
on  the  stove 

Hours 
in  the 
cooker 

Cereals : 

Corn-meal  

1  to  6 

10 

6  or  all  night 

Cracked  wheat  

1  to  5 

25 

8  or  all  night 

Cream-of -wheat  

1  to  6 

5 

2  or  all  night 

Farina  

1  to  7 

5 

2  or  all  night 

Hominy  grits  

1  to  5 

15 

8  or  all  night 

Macaroni  

1  to  4 

5 

2 

Rice  

1  to  4 

5 

2, 

Rolled  oats  

1  to  3 

5 

3  or  all  night 

Vegetables: 

Beans,  dried  (soaked  and 

cooked  in  the  same  water) 

1  to  4 

5 

6  or  more 

Beans,  string  

1  to  1 

2 

2 

Cabbage  

1  to  1 

2 

13^ 

Carrots  

1  to  1 

2 

2 

Onions  

1  to  1 

2 

2 

Potatoes  

1  to  1 

2 

2 

Dried  fruits : 

Apples  

1  to  2 

5 

4  or  all  night 

Apricots  

1  to  2 

2 

4  or  all  night 

Peaches  

1  to  2 

2 

4  or  all  night 

Prunes  (soaked  and  cooked 

in  the  same  water)  

1  to  2 

5 

4  or  all  night 

Meats: 

Beef,  boiled  

15 

3 

Beef,  pot  roast  

30 

5 

Chicken,  stewed  

30 

3 

Ham,  boiled  

20 

7 

Mutton,  leg  or  shoulder, 

boiled  

20 

6 

Mutton  stew  

10 

4 

Breads  and  puddings: 

Brown  bread  

30 

5 

Cup  custard,  steamed  

30 

1 

5 

Suet  pudding  

CHAPTER  IX 


METHODS  OF  KEEPING  FOODS  COOL 

Some  of  the  methods  of  keeping  foods  cool  that  were  used  by 
primitive  people  are  still  resorted  to,  sometimes  with  certain 
modifications.  The  use  of  vessels  permitting  evaporation,  the 
running  water  of  streams,  caves  or  holes  in  the  ground,  packing 
with  grasses,  all  have  lent  their  principles  to  more  elaborate 
cooling  methods  and  refrigerating  systems  of  to-day. 

Refrigerators. 

Ordinary  household  refrigerators,  even  of  the  best  make  with 
the  best  insulated  walls,  are  by  no  means  as  effective  in  saving 
ice  as  might  be  desired.  Three  points  to  consider  in  purchasing 
a  refrigerator  are  low  temperature,  dryness,  and  sanitation.  The 
low  temperature  is  obtained  by  ice  and  proper  insulation.  The 
ice  compartment  should  be  large  enough  to  hold  at  least  50 
or  75  pounds  of  ice  and  should  be  kept  filled  in  order  to  avoid 
a  fluctuation  in  temperature  which  is  favorable  to  the  growth 
of  micro-organisms  that  cause  food  to  spoil.  The  location  of 
the  ice  compartment  at  the  side  is  thought  to  be  better  than 
across  the  entire  top.  The  door  for  icing  is  perhaps  more  con- 
venient at  the  side  than  on  the  top.  A  rear  icing-door  can  be 
made  at  a  very  small  additional  cost;  if  the  refrigerator  is  to  be 
placed  where  rear  icing  would  eliminate  much  tracking  across 
floors,  it  is  worth  considering. 

Insulation  is  accomplished  by  a  dead  air  space  between  the 
outside  case  and  mineral  felt,  cork,  asbestos,  or  whatever 
insulating  material  is  used.  The  wood  should  be  of  such  a  kind 
that  it  will  not  warp.  There  should  be  no  wood  where  water 
can  come  in  contact  with  it,  since  damp  wood  is  an  excellent 
place  for  micro-organisms  to  lurk. 

There  should  be  a  good  circulation  of  air  in  order  to  keep  the 
220 


METHODS  OF  KEEPING  FOODS  COOL 


221 


atmosphere  dry.  The  cold  air  from  around  the  ice  should  go  to 
the  bottom  of  the  refrigerator  and  then  travel  to  the  top  before 
it  again  goes  over  the  ice;  the  inside  openings,  therefore,  should 
be  large  enough  at  the  bottom  and  the  top  to  permit  the  free 
passage  of  air. 

To  insure  good  sanitary  conditions,  the  lining  must  be  of  such  . 
material  that  the  daily  cleaning  will  be  easy,  and  there  must  be 
as  few  seams  as  possible  to  harbor  germs.  The  material  may 
be  galvanized  iron,  enamel,  or  porcelain.  There  is  little  differ- 
ence in  cost  between  galvanized  iron  and  enamel;  the  enamel 
is  somewhat  easier  to  clean  that  the  galvanized  iron  and  with 
proper  care  wears  very  satisfactorily.  Porcelain  is  perhaps  in 
many  ways  the  most  desirable  but  it  is  also  the  most  expensive. 
The  drainpipe  and  shelves  should  be  easily  removable  in  order 
that  they  may  be  cleaned  frequently. 

To  make  the  best  use  of  a  refrigerator,*  such  foods  as  milk 
and  meat  should  be  placed  where  they  will  be  kept  coldest; 
generally  near  the  place  the  air  leaves  the  ice-chamber,  or 
directly  under  the  ice.  The  doors  should  be  opened  seldom  and 
for  as  short  a  time  as  possible.  The  ice  should  not  be  covered 
to  prevent  its  melting,  since  only  by  melting  can  it  keep  food 
cool. 

Iceless  refrigerator. 

An  iceless  refrigerator  depends  for  its  efficiency  on  the  cooHng 
effect  of  evaporating  water.  An  open  framework  of  shelves 
is  surrounded  by  a  cloth  kept  moist  by  means  of  a  large  pan  of 
water  on  the  top.  A  good  current  of  air  to  evaporate  the  water 
is  essential.  The  refrigerator  will  work  wherever  the  cloth  will 
dry  readily,  but  it  must  be  kept  in  a  shady  place  since  a  low 
temperature  is  the  main  object.  A  temperature  of  about  55°  F. 
can  be  maintained. 

Directions  for  making  an  iceless  refrigerator  are  as  follows 
(Figs.  50,  51) : 

Make  a  strong  set  of  shelves  open  on  four  sides  with  a  solid  top  and 
bottom.    Raise  it  on  short  legs.    Screen  this  on  three  sides,  and  fit  a 
*  U.  S.  Bur.  Standards,  Circ.  55. 


222 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


screen  door  to  the  fourth  side.  The  efficiency  will  be  greater  if  the  shelves 
and  the  bottom  are  made  of  reinforced  screening  to  allow  freer  circulation 
of  air. 

Cover  the  four  sides  entirely  with  canton  flannel,  smooth  side  out,  but- 
toning it  closely  to  the  frame.  This  may  be  done  easily  by  sewing  buttons 
on  tape  and  tacking  this  tape  firmly  around  the  upper  edge  of  the  case  on 
three  sides,  also  down  each  side  of  the  framework  next  the  door  and  on  the 
upper  and  outer  edges  of  the  door.   Allow  a  flap  of  flannel  to  extend  past 


Fig.  50. — An  iceless  refrigerator. 

the  outer  edge  of  the  door  to  be  buttoned  over  on  the  framework.  It 
will  be  necessary  to  unbutton  and  button  this  flap  when  opening  the  case. 
Make  buttonholes  in  the  flannel  covering  corresponding  to  the  buttons  on 
the  case.  Around  the  top  of  the  covering  sew  four  flaps  of  canton  flannel 
a  little  narrower  than  each  side  of  the  case  and  large  enough  to  extend  up 
over  the  top  and  dip  into  the  pan  of  water.  These  will  serve  as  wicks  to 
keep  the  entire  surface  of  the  flannel  moist.  If  the  refrigerator  is  to  be 
set  on  the  porch,  a  pan  must  be  placed  underneath  the  refrigerator  to 
catch  the  water  that  drips  down. 

An  extra  flannel  covering  should  be  made  for  the  case  so  that  one  may 
be  washed  each  week. 


METHODS  OF  KEEPING  FOODS  COOL 


223 


It  is  desirable,  but  not  essential,  to  paint  the  case  with  enamel  paint.  A 
non-rusting  wire  must  be  used  for  the  screening. 

The  following  dimensions  are  suggested,  and  the  amount  of  material 
required  is  indicated. 

Height:  4  feet,  8  inches. 

Base:  24  inches  square. 

Space  between  shelves:  11  inches. 


1  r 


Fig.  51. — Removable  canton  flannel  cover  for  the  refrigerator. 
The  buttonholes  are  placed  to  correspond  with  the  buttons 
on  the  framework. 


Materials:  3  yards  of  24-inch  opal  zinc  screen  wire,  1  pint  of  flat  coat 
white  paint  for  first  coat,  1  pint  of  white  enamel  paint  for  second  coat, 
50  feet  of  board  M  x  3  inches  for  frame  and  door,  16  feet  of  board  1  x  12 
inches  for  4  shelves,  4  feet  of  board  1  x  24  inches  for  top  and  bottom,  46 
feet  of  screen  molding,  2  hinges,  1  cabinet  catch,  2%  dozen  white  china 
buttons,  10  yards  of  white  cotton  tape,  nails,  tacks,  13  yards  of  30-inch 
canton  flannel  (two  covers). 

Unglazed  earthen  vessels."^ 

If  the  air  is  dry,  evaporation  is  quite  rapid  even  when  water 
is  cool.  Thus,  when  water  is  placed  in  a  slightly  porous  un- 
glazed earthen  vessel,  a  small  amount  constantly  filters  to  the 
outside  and  evaporates,  keeping  the  contents  several  degrees 


*  U.  S.  Bur.  Standards,  Circ.  55. 


224  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


cooler  than  the  surrounding  ah\  This  device  in  various  forms 
has  been  used  for  hundreds  and  perhaps  thousands  of  years. 

Fireless  cooker. 

A  fireless  cooker  (page  214)  may  be  used  for  keeping  foods 
cool  as  well  as  hot,  since  proper  insulation  will  keep  the  heat 
out  as  well  as  in. 

Thermos  bottle. 

A  thermos  bottle  is  a  convenient  way  of  keeping  a  small 
amount  of  food  cold.  A  wide-mouthed  bottle  can  be  used  for 
other  foods  than  liquids. 


CHAPTER  X 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS  * 

While  waiting  for  the  day  when  labor-saving  machinery  will 
be  the  rule  instead  of  the  exception,  much  can  be  done  by  selec- 
tion, arrangement,  and  care  of  kitchen  equipment  to  make 
work  easier  and  working  hours  shorter. 

Kitchen  utensils  should  not  be  selected  at  random  to  clutter 
storage  space.  Only  those  articles  that  are  used  daily  or  at 
least  weekly  should  be  given  a  place  in  the  kitchen  cupboards. 
A  housekeeper  should  weigh  well  the  usefulness  and  the  cost 
of  any  article  that  is  only  seldom  to  be  taken  from  the  shelf. 
The  following  considerations  should  be  kept  in  mind  in  choosing 
kitchen  utensils:  Whether  the  utensil  is  all  that  it  is  adver- 
tised to  be;  whether  it  is  durable,  convenient  to  handle,  well 
balanced,  of  good  weight  for  its  purpose;  whether  a  handle  or 
a  bail  is  desirable;  whether  the  cover  is  good  for  the  purpose; 
whether  the  lip  of  the  utensil  is  on  the  proper  side  for  use; 
whether  the  utensil  is  easy  to  clean,  free  from  seams  and  cor- 
ners, free  from  rolled  rims,  rough  edges,  and  grooves;  whether 
the  utensil  is  of  the  proper  size  and  shape  for  the  amount  and 
kind  of  cooking  to  be  done;  whether  it  is  a  safe  receptacle  for 
food. 

UTENSILS  BEST  ADAPTED  TO  VARIOUS  COOKING  PROCESSES 

Baking. 

Cake. — Tin,  if  well  cared  for  (page  237),  is  the  metal  best 
adapted  for  cake-making.  It  does  not  scorch,  heats  quickly 
to  the  point  at  which  the  leavening  agent  in  the  cake  becomes 
effective,  and  responds  rapidly  to  necessary  regulation  of  tem- 

*  Adapted  from  "  Choice  and  Care  of  Utensils  "  by  Ida  S.  Harrington, 
Cornell  Reading  Course  for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  27. 

225 


226  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


perature  during  baking.  The  round  tin  with  a  tube  in  the  cen- 
ter, known  as  an  angel-cake  tin,  produces  the  most  level  and 
evenly  baked  cake,  owing  to  the  heat  reaching  the  center  of  the 
cake  as  soon  as  any  other  part,  and  the  ''pull"  between  metal 
and  batter  being  more  even  at  every  point  than  in  tins  of 
other  construction.  A  plain  round  tin,  not  too  deep,  gives 
the  next  best  result;  a  square  tin  is  next,  while  an  oblong  tin 
requires  very  careful  regulation  of  heat  in  order  to  produce  a 
well-baked  cake. 

Bread. — The  choice  of  utensils  for  bread  baking  lies  between 
tin  and  russia  iron  (a  sheet  iron  treated  by  a  process  that  orig- 
inated in  Russia,  having  a  polished  blue-black  surface).  Since 
bread  requires  a  hotter  oven  than  does  cake,  the  russia  iron 
pan  should  have  first  choice;  it  absorbs  more  heat  than  does 
tin,  is  less  affected  by  high  temperature,  and  is  more  durable. 

Pie, — Experiments  have  shown  that  in  baking  the  lower 
crust  of  juicy  pies,  the  best  results  are  obtained  by  the  use  of 
granite-ware  plates,  that  old  tin  plates  are  next  in  order,  while 
perforated  and  wire  plates  come  third. 

Cookies. — Cookies  are  best  baked  on  russia  iron  sheets  cut 
to  fit  the  oven,  with  heavy  tin  sheets  as  second  choice.  The 
sheets  are  kept  in  better  condition  and  produce  more  delicate 
results  if,  instead  of  being  greased  with  butter  or  lard,  they 
are  warmed  and  rubbed  very  lightly  with  paraffin.  If  kept 
scrupulously  clean,  they  require  no  greasing. 

Cooking  of  meats. 

Roasts. — Roasts  require  a  high  temperature  at  the  start  in 
order  to  sear  the  surface;  for  this  reason  the  best  choice  is  a  pan 
of  iron  or  high-grade  granite  ware.  An  oval  pan  can  be  more 
carefully  cleaned  than  one  with  sharp  corners.  There  is  less 
danger,  therefore,  if  this  shape  is  chosen,  that  particles  of  fat 
will  adhere  to  the  pan,  grow  rancid,  and  give  an  unpleasant 
odor  to  the  utensil  and  a  taint  to  the  food. 

Pot  roasts. — The  iron  kettle  with  tight-fitting  cover,  called 
also  the  ''Dutch  oven,"  best  supplies  the  steady  heat  that  a 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS 


227 


pot  roast  needs.  Although  a  casserole  may  be  used,  or  a  bean 
pot  with  waxed  paper  tied  tightly  over  the  top,  in  either  of 
these  there  is  more  evaporation  than  in  the  iron  kettle  and  the 
roast  is,  therefore,  drier,  although  just  as  tender. 

Meat  stews. — Since  in  stews  more  liquid  is  added  than  in  pot 
roasts,  the  casserole  may  well  be  used,  or  a  shallow  aluminum 
or  graniteware  stewpan  with  close-fitting  cover,  straight  sides, 
and  very  short  or  loop-shaped  handles.  The  long,  slow  cook- 
ing may  thus  be  done  either  in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the  stove. 
In  brown  stews,  the  meat  is  first  sauteed  in  an  iron  pan  in  order 
to  give  the  desired  color  and  flavor. 

Stewing  fruits  or  vegetables. 

Aluminum,  granite,  and  enamelware  are  equally  good  for 
stewing  fruits  and  vegetables.  A  wide,  shallow  type  of  sauce- 
pan, with  a  well-fitting  cover,  should  be  selected  for  fruits  and 
for  such  vegetables  as  must  be  cooked  in  a  small  amount  of 
water;  while  a  deep  saucepan,  without  a  cover,  is  best  for  the 
cooking  of  strong-juiced  vegetables  that  need  a  large  amount  of 
water. 

Sauteing. 

A  rather  heavy  iron  or  steel  frying  pan  is  best  adapted  for 
this  purpose.  In  a  thin  pan,  or  in  one  of  graniteware,  the  fat 
passes  too  soon  from  the  temperature  at  which  it  forms  the  de- 
sired golden-brown  crust  on  the  food  to  be  cooked,  to  the  point 
where  it  begins  to  decompose  and  becomes  irritating  to  the  di- 
gestive tract. 

Frying. 

For  frying  in  deep  fat  an  iron  or  steel  frying  kettle  is  best. 
It  may  be  bowl-shaped,  or  it  may  have  straight  sides.  The 
latter  shape  accommodates  a  greater  number  of  articles  at  a 
time,  and  is  more  convenient  for  use  with  a  wire  frying  basket. 
In  using  the  bowl-shaped  kettle,  a  long-handled  skimmer  may 
be  more  convenient  for  removing  the  food.  The  kettle  should 
be  deep,  so  that  when  it  is  two-thirds  full  of  fat  the  food  to  be 
cooked  will  be  entirely  immersed. 


228 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Candy-making. 

Professional  confectioners  use  a  copper  kettle  connected  with 
an  apparatus  that  makes  a  partial  vacuum  in  the  kettle  and 
allows  the  sugar  to  boil  at  a  lower  temperature  than  the  ordi- 
nary boiling  point,  thus  lessening  the  danger  of  scorching  the 
sugar.  For  the  home  candy-maker,  aluminum  is  the  best  sub- 
stitute for  copper  as  a  conductor  of  heat.  Sirup  boiled  in  an 
aluminum  kettle  rarely  scorches,  and  the  smooth  surface  makes 
it  easy  to  keep  the  sides  wiped  free  from  sugar  crystals  as  they 
form. 

Jelly-making. 

Enamel  or  graniteware — unless  there  is  a  defect  in  the  enamel 
finish — makes  the  best  utensil  for  jelly-making,  because  of  the 
ease  with  which  it  may  be  cleaned  and  the  certainty  that  it 
will  not  be  affected  by  the  acid  of  fruit  juices. 

SPECIAL  UTENSILS  AND  EQUIPMENT 

Knives. 

The  assortment  of  knives  should  include  a  bread  knife, 
butcher's  knife,  vegetable  knife,  a  knife  with  a  waved  edge 
for  cutting  fresh  bread  and  cake,  and  a  spatula.  The  most  dur- 
able knife  is  a  hand-forged  one  in  which  the  steel  extends,  flat 
and  unnarrowed,  to  the  end  of  the  handle,  and  is  fastened  to 
it  by  rivets  of  steel,  copper,  or  brass.  Strength  is  lost  if  the 
steel  extends  only  half  the  length  of  the  handle.  In  the  cheapest 
setting,  known  as  the  ^Hwang,"  the  steel  is  narrowed  to  a  point, 
pushed  into  the  handle,  and  fastened  by  adhesion.  This  is  the 
kind  of  handle  that  is  sure  to  come  off  at  the  most  inconvenient 
time.  Handles  of  beech  or  birch  wood  wear  best.  Rubber 
handles  are  unpractical  because  they  shrink,  swell,  and  burn. 
Ivory,  pearl,  or  bone  handles  are  likely  to  blacken  or  become 
loosened  if  they  are  put  in  water. 

Egg-heaters. 

Different  types  of  egg-beaters  are  needed,  according  to  the 
consistency  desired  in  the  beaten  whites.    For  all-round  use, 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS 


229 


the  dover  egg-beater  is  a  good  choice  because  it  works  most 
quickly.  It  is  operated  by  turning  a  wheel,  without  being 
lifted  from  the  eggs  to  be  beaten,  and  hence  beats  in  compara- 
tively little  air  and  gives  a  fine,  close  texture.  One  should  be 
selected  in  which  the  cogs  do  not  "interfere."  The  balloon- 
shaped  egg-whisk  made  of  piano  wire  carries  more  air  into 
the  moisture,  and  the  flat  wire  beater  gives  the  airiest  texture 
of  all.  Either  of  the  latter  types  is  preferable  to  the  dover  egg- 
beater  for  angel  cake,  sponge  cake,  or  meringues  where  light- 
ness is  more  desirable  than  fineness  of  grain. 

Spoons. 

Spoons  of  hard  wood  should  be  used  whenever  possible; 
they  are  lighter  than  metal  ones,  do  not  discolor  the  hand,  make 
less  noise,  and  do  not  scratch  metal  surfaces.  For  basting 
roasts,  or  whenever  a  specially  strong  spoon  is  needed,  a  tinned 
iron  spoon  is  good.  Enamel  spoons  are  not  practical,  as  they 
are  likely  to  bend  and  crack  the  enamel. 

Brushes. 

If  brushes  are  used  in  connection  with  food — that  is,  for 
greasing  pans  or  for  brushing  rolls  or  pastry  with  butter,  egg, 
or  milk — they  must  be  of  a  kind  that  can  be  cleaned  with  boil- 
ing water.  This  is  impossible  if  the  bristles  are  glued  in.  The 
bristles  should  be  strong  and  pHable  (Russia  or  Chinese  bristles 
are  best)  and  should  be  bound  to  the  handle  with  twine  rather 
than  with  metal.  A  shaving  brush  of  badger  hair  is  really  better 
adapted  to  the  purpose  than  any  brush  specially  designed. 

Small  wooden-backed  brushes  are  indispensable  for  the  proper 
cleaning  of  vegetables,  for  brushing  grated  lemon  rind  from  the 
grater,  and  for  many  other  purposes.  A  small  poker  heated  red 
hot  can  be  used  to  mark  on  the  backs  of  the  brushes  the  pur- 
poses for  which  they  are  to  be  used.  A  round  pitcher-  or  bottle- 
brush,  and  a  long  wire-handled  trap-brush  for  the  refrigerator, 
are  sanitary  necessities. 

Double  boilers. 

A  double  boiler  should  be  selected  with  a  lower  part  suffi- 


230 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


ciently  large  to  hold  a  quantity  of  water  that  will  not  soon  boil 
away. 

Payer. 

Heavy  absorbent  brown  paper,  on  a  roller,  such  as  is  used  in 
meat  markets,  is  a  great  kitchen  help.  In  breading  cutlets  or 
making  croquettes,  for  example,  the  table  or  the  rolling  board 
may  be  covered  with  paper  and  the  bread  crumbs  emptied  on  it. 
After  the  croquettes  are  breaded,  the  crumbs  may  be  removed 
and  the  same  paper  used  for  draining  the  croquettes  when  they 
are  fried.  It  may  afterwards  be  folded  up  and  burned,  or  given 
as  a  titbit  to  the  chickens,  in  either  case  saving  the  washing  of  a 
mixture  of  egg  and  bread  crumbs  from  the  rolling  board. 

Waxed  paper,  so  essential  for  putting  up  lunches,  lining  cake 
tins,  and  covering  food  in  the  refrigerator,  may  also  be  obtained 
on  rollers  or  in  sheets. 

Covered  paper  pails,  lined  with  waxed  paper,  are  useful  for 
storing  dry  left-overs.  Paper  cups,  plates,  and  napkins  are  a 
welcome  help  in  the  picnic  lunch  or  the  grange  supper.  The 
plates  may  be  bought  with  linings,  or  ''insets,^'  which  may  be 
replaced  by  clean  ones  for  a  second  course.  Folding  paper  cups 
should  be  a  part  of  every  school  lunch  or  traveler's  outfit. 

Fiber  pails,  washbowls,  and  tubs  are  useful  because  of  their 
lightness,  and  with  careful  handling  they  will  last  a  long  time. 
Breaks  in  the  finish  may  be  mended  by  filling  with  a  little  putty, 
covering  this  with  a  piece  of  stout  cotton  cloth,  and  holding  the 
whole  together  with  oil  paint  to  match  the  finish. 

Wooden  skewers  and  toothpicks. 

For  testing  cake,  wooden  toothpicks  are  as, good  as  broom 
straws  and  much  cleaner.  Skewers  are  helpful  in  cleaning 
corners,  or,  covered  with  several  thicknesses  of  cheese-cloth, 
in  keeping  free  from  crystals  the  sides  of  the  saucepan  in  which 
sugar  is  being  boiled  down. 

ARRANGEMENT  OF  UTENSILS 

The  best-selected  utensils  may  fail  in  usefulness  if  arranged 
awkwardly.   Although  ^'stacking"  is  not  the  menace  to  kitchen 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS 


231 


utensils  that  it  is  to  tableware,  it  calls  for  man}^  unnecessary 
motions,  especially  if  the  utensil  sought  is  the  lowest  one  in  the 
stack.  Utensils  in  regular  use  are  best  hung  on  small  brass 
hooks  in  the  wall,  each  article  having  a  separate  hook.  They 
should  hang  bottom  side  out,  so  as  to  protect  the  inside  from 
dust,  and  should  be  within  easy  reach  of  the  hand.  If  there 
is  sufficient  space  for  some  definite  system  of  arrangement — 
whereby,  for  example,  the  largest  utensils  hang  at  the  left  and 
the  utensils  decrease  in  size  toward  the  right — it  will  improve 
the  appearance  of  the  kitchen  and  make  it  possible  to  reach 
mechanically  the  tool  needed,  without  expending  thought  on 
its  whereabouts. 

Whatever  is  kept  in  storage  cupboards  should  be  so  arranged 
as  to  be  easy  of  access,  easy  to  keep  account  of,  easy  to  keep  in 
order,  and  easy  to  note  the  condition  of.  The  average  cupboard 
shelves  are  too  far  apart.  Shallow  shelves  that  accommodate 
only  one  or  two  rows  of  utensils,  easily  seen  and  reached,  will 
save  many  searchings  (Plate  XI).  Covers  are  conveniently 
stored  behind  rib^  of  wood  nailed  to  available  wall  space  or  to 
a  cupboard  door.  Arrangement  according  to  size  will  again  be 
found  a  great  saving  of  time.  A  canvas  or  leather  pocket, 
divided  off  in  a  way  similar  to  a  traveler's  case  or  shoe-bag,  is 
a  convenient  place  for  the  cook's  knives,  each  one  slipping  into 
its  own  division  and  being  safer  and  easier  to  find  than  when 
in  a  kitchen  drawer  filled  with  miscellaneous  articles. 

HOW  TO  PREPARE  NEW  UTENSILS  FOR  USE 

Iron,  tin,  and  enamelware. — It  is  a  general  custom  to  prepare 
a  new  iron  utensil  for  use,  after  thorough  cleaning,  by  rubbing 
unsalted  fat  over  it  and  baking  the  fat  in.  The  same  treatment 
is  adapted  to  tin,  for,  while  it  destroys  its  shiny  new  appearance, 
it  protects  the  tin  from  rust  and  increases  its  capacity  for  hold- 
ing heat.  Another  way  is  to  coat  the  kettle  with  fat  outside 
and  inside  and  allow  it  to  stand  for  two  days.  It  should  then 
be  cleaned  in  a  solution  of  washing-soda  (page  235).  Enamel- 
ware  is  said  to  be  protected  from  cracking  and  chipping  if  it 
is  well  rubbed  with  fat  before  being  used  for  the  first  time;  the 


232 


A  MANUAL  OF  ROME-MAKING 


fat,  however,  cannot  be  baked  in  as  with  tin  and  iron,  since  it 
would  not  be  absorbed  but  only  burned  fast  to  the  glaze. 

Glass. — Tumblers,  jars,  and  lamp  chimneys  may  be  tough- 
ened by  being  placed  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  which  is  brought 
gradually  to  the  boiling  point.  After  being  boiled  for  a  few 
minutes  they  should  be  allowed  to  cool  gradually  in  the  water. 

Machinery. — Egg-beaters,  ice  cream  freezers,  and  other 
utensils  in  which  there  is  friction  between  two  parts,  should  be 
carefully  oiled  before  being  used,  the  wheels  turned  until  the 
oil  has  reached  every  part,  and  all  surplus  oil  wiped  off  before 
the  utensil  is  used  for  food. 

HOW  TO  PROTECT  METALS  NOT  IN  USE 

If  the  house  is  to  be  closed  for  a  time,  or  if  for  any  other 
reason  utensils  are  to  be  set  aside,  all  metals  should  be  pro- 
tected from  dampness  by  a  coating  of  vaseline,  paraffin,  or  un- 
salted  fat  of  some  kind. 

MATERIALS  AND  THEIR  CARE 

The  advantages  and  disadvantages  of  the  various  materials 
used  in  kitchen  utensils,  together  with  their  care,  may  be 
summed  up  as  follows: 

Aluminum 

Advantages: 

1.  The  utensils  are  light. 

2.  They  are  generally  seamless. 

3.  They  hold  the  heat  longer  than  do  some  of  the  other  materials,  even 
though  they  are  somewhat  slow  in  heating. 

4.  They  are  durable. 

5.  Food  is  less  likely  to  burn  in  utensils  of  aluminum  than  in  those  of  some 
other  metals,  and  if  it  does  burn,  the  kettle  is  generally  more  easily  cleaned. 

6.  Aluminum  utensils  are  generally  made  in  good  shapes. 

7.  Aluminum  does  not  rust. 

8.  It  does  not  chip. 

Disadvantages: 

1.  Aluminum  discolors  easily. 

2.  It  is  expensive. 

3.  Acid  foods  should  not  be  allowed  to  remain  for  any  great  length  of 
time  in  aluminum.   So  little  aluminum  is  dissolved  in  cooking  the  ordinary 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS 


233 


acid  foods,  that  its  use  for  this  purpose  is  no  longer  considered  a  bad  prac- 
tice. 

General  care: 

1.  Scour  aluminum  with  only  mild  abrasives,  such  as  whiting  or  bon 
ami,  since  it  is  a  soft  metal  and  scratches  easily.   Steel  wool  may  be  used. 

2.  Wash  aluminum  with  neutral  soap  and  water,  since  an  alkaline  soap 
or  cleansing  substance  will  attack  the  metal.  Add  a  small  amount  of 
ammonia  water,  and  polish  the  utensil  with  whiting  occasionally. 

3.  Remove  dents  with  a  wooden  mallet. 

4.  Cook  foods  containing  weak  acids,  such  as  sour  milk,  tart  apples, 
tomatoes,  or  weak  vinegar  in  aluminum  utensils  to  remove  the  tarnish  that 
appears  with  common  use. 

Special  care: 

1.  To  remove  burnt  food,  soak  the  kettle  in  hot  water,  use  a  wooden 
spoon  instead  of  metal  to  scrape  it  off,  or  if  necessary  boil  water  in  the  kettle. 

2.  The  coarser  abrasives  may  be  used  on  bad  stains,  but  the  aluminum 
will  be  scratched. 

3.  For  a  kettle  in  very  bad  condition,  use  an  oxalic  acid  solution  in  the 
proportion  of  4  tablespoons  of  oxalic  acid  crystals  (poison)  to  1  gallon  of 
water.  Allow  the  cold  solution  to  stand  in  the  kettle  overnight,  or  boil 
it  in  the  kettle  for  not  more  than  five  minutes.  Wash  the  kettle  thoroughly 
with  soap  and  water  before  using  it.  Care  must  be  exercised  in  hand- 
ling the  solution  since  it  is  a  very  poisonous  substance. 

Copper 

Advantages: 

1.  Copper  utensils  are  durable. 

2.  They  are  attractive  in  appearance. 

3.  Copper  is  an  excellent  conductor  of  heat. 

Disadvantages: 

1.  Copper  utensils  are  heavy. 

2.  They  are  expensive. 

3.  They  are  dangerous  to  use  for  cooking  unless  they  are  kept  scrupu- 
lously clean. 

4.  They  require  much  cleaning. 

5.  Acid  foods  must  not  be  allowed  to  stand  in  copper. 
General  care: 

1.  Copper  utensils  should  be  kept  clean  by  thorough  washing  in  hot 
soapsuds. 

2.  They  must  be  kept  bright,  because  the  tarnish  is  easily  soluble  in 
weak  acids  and  forms  a  poisonous  compound. 

3.  If  not  stained,  copper  is  best  brightened  with  rottenstone  or  tripoli 
and  sweet  oil. 


234 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Special  care: 

1.  Wash  the  utensil  with  a  solution  of  washing  soda  to  remove  grease. 

2.  Remove  the  tarnish  from  copper  with  a  weak  acid,  such  as  oxalic, 
cream  of  tartar,  vinegar,  lemon  juice,  or  the  acid  of  sour  milk.  The  acid 
should  be  completely  rinsed  off  with  water,  and  the  utensil  rubbed  with 
whiting,  since  any  acid  remaining  on  it  will  cause  it  to  tarnish  the  more 
quickly. 

3.  Scour  the  utensil  with  vinegar  and  salt.  Wash  it  at  once  and  polish 
it  with  tripoli  and  sweet  oil. 

4.  Use  rottenstone  and  oil,  and  follow  this  with  dry  whiting,  rottenstone, 
or  tripoli. 

5.  Use  ammonia  water,  and  wash  it  off  thoroughly,  since  the  compound 
formed  is  poisonous. 

Enamelware 

Advantages: 

1.  Enamelware  is  light. 

2.  It  is  easily  cleaned. 

3.  It  radiates  heat  readily. 

4.  It  is  fairly  durable. 

5.  It  is  not  affected  by  food  acids. 

6.  It  has  a  clean,  attractive  appearance. 
Disadvantages : 

1.  Enamelware  must  be  handled  almost  as  carefully  as  glass  to  prevent 
chipping.  Granite  and  enamelware  are  made  by  coating  sheet  iron  or 
steel  utensils  with  an  enamel  or  glaze. 

2.  It  does  not  withstand  sudden  changes  of  temperature,  such  as  being 
placed  over  a  direct  flame  that  gives  intense  heat. 

3.  It  cannot  be  used  for  strong  alkalis. 

4.  Some  cheap  enamels  contain  lead  compounds  which  are  soluble  in 
vmegar  and  fruit  acids  and  give  rise  to  the  danger  of  lead  poisoning.  A 
simple  test  is  to  let  a  beaten  egg  stand  in  the  utensil  for  a  few  minutes. 
If  it  becomes  discolored,  lead  is  probably  present. 

General  care: 

1.  Wash  enamelware  in  hot  soapsuds.  Clean  any  seams  with  a  wooden 
toothpick  or  skewer. 

2.  Remove  ordinary  stains  with  sapolio  or  Dutch  cleanser. 

3.  To  remove  food  that  has  been  burnt  on,  place  a  small  amount  of 
fat  in  the  dish,  warm  it  gently,  and  scrape  off  the  burned  particles. 

Special  care: 

If  greasy  food  is  so  badly  burned  on  an  enamelware  utensil  that  none  of 
the  general  methods  of  cleaning  has  any  effect,  strong  acids  may  be  used, 
although  enamelware  should  not  be  expected  to  be  proof  against  them. 
Place  a  few  drops  of  25  per  cent  sulphuric  acid  in  the  pan  and  add  a  few 
drops  of  25  per  cent  hydrochloric  acid.    Be  exceedingly  careful  not  to 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS 


235 


allow  the  acids  to  get  on  the  hands  or  clothing.  As  soon  as  the  acids  begin 
to  fume,  neutralize  them  by  adding  ammonia  water,  pour  them  off,  wash 
the  utensil  thoroughly,  and  flush  the  drainpipe  well,  rinsing  it  at  last  with 
boiling  water. 

Iron  and  steel 

Advantages: 

1.  Iron  utensils  are  strong  and  durable. 

2.  They  hold  heat  well. 

3.  They  endure  intense  heat. 

4.  They  are  relatively  inexpensive. 

5.  They  become  smooth  with  long  use  and  are  then  not  hard  to  clean. 

6.  They  make  an  even  heat  possible  and  are  consequently  excellent  for 
frying.   Russia  iron  is  a  good  sheet  iron  for  roasting  and  baking. 

Disadvantages: 

1.  Iron  utensils  should  not  be  used  for  cooking  acid  foods. 

2.  They  are  heavy. 

3.  They  rust  readily. 

General  care: 

1.  Iron  utensils  must  be  kept  smooth  and  free  from  rust,  which  means 
that  they  must  be  kept  dry. 

2.  Wash  them  thoroughly  in  hot  soapsuds. 

3.  Use  a  wire  dish  cloth  to  remove  food  that  has  been  burnt  on. 

4.  To  preserve  the  temper  of  steel  knives,  avoid  the  practice  of  heating 
the  blade  on  top  of  the  stove  in  order  to  facilitate  cutting  fresh  bread  or 
cake.  Allowing  hot  water  to  run  over  the  blade  accomplishes  the  same 
purpose  without  injury  to  the  knife. 

5.  Never  allow  the  cogs  of  an  egg-beater  or  ice  cream  freezer  to  be  cov- 
ered with  water,  since  they  cannot  be  perfectly  dried  and  therefore  they 
become  roughened  and  clogged  with  rust. 

Special  cleaning: 

1 .  To  clean  iron  utensils  thoroughly,  boil  them  occasionally  in  a  solution 
of  washing-soda  made  in  the  proportion  of  6  quarts  of  cold  water  to  1  pound 
of  washing-soda,  rinse  them  with  boiling  water,  and  dry  them  thoroughly 
over  heat  before  putting  them  away.  Use  some  scouring  powder  after 
rinsing  them,  if  necessary. 

2.  If  iron  utensils  are  to  be  put  away  for  some  time  they  should  be 
coated  with  paraffin  or  unsaltecl  fat. 

3.  If  rust  is  not  too  thick  it  may  be  removed  by  scouring  the  utensil, 
iron  or  steel,  with  bath  brick  or  fine  emery  and  rubbing  it  with  kerosene  or 
by  allowing  kerosene  to  remain  on  it  for  some  time  to  soften  the  rust  and 
then  scouring  it  with  bath  brick. 

4.  If  a  utensil  is  badly  rusted,  apply  dilute  hydrochloric  acid,  add  am- 
monia water  to  neutralize  the  acid,  wash  the  utensil,  dry  it,  and  oil  it. 


236 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


5.  Scour  steel  knives  with  bath  brick  or  some  similar  material  after 
they  have  been  washed  and  rinsed  but  not  wiped.  Rest  the  knife  blade 
on  a  board,  dip  a  moistened  cork  into  the  scouring  powder,  and  apply  it 
to  the  blade,  rubbing  it  until  the  stain  has  disappeared.  Rinse  the  knife 
thoroughly  and  wipe  it  dry. 

Nickel 

Advantages: 

1.  Nickel-plated  utensils  are  durable. 

2.  They  are  easily  kept  clean  and  bright. 

3.  They  do  not  rust. 

Disadvantages: 

1.  Nickel-plated  utensils  are  heavy. 

2.  They  are  expensive. 
General  care: 

Wash  nickel  utensils  in  hot  soapsuds  and  rinse  them  in  very  hot  water. 
Special  care: 

1.  Polish  nickel  with  a  paste  made  of  lard  and  whiting. 

2.  Apply  whiting  moistened  with  ammonia  or  alcohol,  and  polish  the 
utensil  with  soft  cotton  waste. 

Pottery 

Porcelain,  stoneware,  and  earthenware  have  clay  for  a  foundation,  but 
differ  in  appearance  and  quality  according  to  the  fineness  of  the  clay  used, 
the  kind  of  glaze  applied,  and  the  length  of  time  taken  for  firing. 

Advantages: 

1.  Pottery  utensils  are  excellent  for  slow,  even  cooking  in  even  heat, 
such  as  slow  baking. 

2.  They  can  be  used  for  both  cooking  and  serving  food  and  therefore  save 
dishwashing. 

3.  The  good  grades  are  nonabsorbent. 

4.  Pottery  utensils  are  comparatively  cheap. 

5.  They  are  relatively  durable. 

6.  They  are  easy  to  clean  unless  they  are  cracked. 

Disadvantages: 

Pottery  utensils  are  not  good  for  use  over  direct  heat  that  is  unsteady 
or  intense,  such  as  on  top  of  a  stove. 
General  care: 

1.  Pottery  utensils  should  be  kept  exceedingly  clean. 

2.  If  they  are  allowed  to  dry  without  being  wiped,  they  should  bo 
rinsed  in  very  hot,  clean  water  to  prevent  their  becoming  covered  with  a 
thin  film  which  in  time  spoils  the  glaze. 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS 


237 


Silver  or  plated  silver 

Advantages: 

1.  Silver  is  an  excellent  conductor  of  heat. 

2.  It  does  not  tarnish  readily. 
Disadvantages: 

1.  Silver  is  too  costly  for  ordinary  use,  although  plated  silver  is  used  to 
a  limited  extent  in  baking  dishes  and  the  like. 

2.  It  becomes  tarnished  if  sulphur  is  allowed  to  touch  it. 
General  care: 

Wash  silver  in  hot  soapy  water,  rinse  it  thoroughly  in  clear  hot  water, 
and  wipe  it  with  a  clean  dry  cloth. 
Special  care: 

1.  Use  a  brush  in  cleaning  raised  patterns. 

2.  To  remove  tarnish,  use  silver  polish  according  to  directions  given 
on  the  package,  or  use  whiting  moistened  with  alcohol,  ammonia  water,  or 
water.  Rub  in  the  paste,  allow  it  to  dry,  and  rub  it  off  wdth  a  soft  cloth, 
chamois  skin,  or  tissue  paper.  Scald  the  silver.  This  method  gives  a  bur- 
nished appearance. 

3.  Boil  the  silver  until  the  tarnish  is  removed,  in  an  enamelware  kettle 
containing  a  piece  of  aluminum  and  a  solution  made  of  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
1  teaspoon  of  either  washing  or  baking  soda,  and  1  quart  of  water.  Alum- 
inum kettles  of  any  value  for  cooking  should  not  be  used,  since  the  process 
corrodes  them  quickly.  A  piece  of  zinc  is  sometimes  used  in  place  of 
aluminum,  but  it  becomes  corroded  and  inactive  in  a  much  shorter  time. 
This  method  gives  a  satin  finish  rather  than  the  burnished  appearance 
obtained  by  an  abrasive  silver  polish.  This  electrolytic  method,  however, 
causes  no  loss  of  metal  and  requires  less  time.  It  may  be  desirable,  there- 
fore, to  use  the  solution  with  aluminum  as  frequently  as  it  is  necessary  to 
remove  tarnish,  and  the  abrasive  polish  occasionally  to  restore  the  bur- 
nished appearance. 

Soapstone 

Advantages: 

Soapstone  gives  a  good  even  heat  for  cake  griddles. 
Disadvantages: 

Unless  it  is  of  excellent  quahty  and  is  well  cared  for,  it  is  hkely  to  be  too 
absorbent  to  be  sanitary. 
General  care: 

Soapstone  should  be  cleaned  occasionally  with  soap  and  water,  and 
thoroughly  dried.   The  pores  should  always  be  kept  well  filled  with  oil. 

Tin 

Advantages: 

1.  The  utensils  are  light. 

2.  They  are  comparatively  inexpensive. 


238  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


3.  They  are  attractive  in  appearance  when  new. 

4.  They  are  good  conductors  of  heat;  this  allows  food  cooked  in  them 
to  become  evenly  heated. 

5.  The  best  grades  of  tinware  are  not  corroded  by  water. 

Disadvantages: 

1.  Tin  does  not  endure  intense  heat,  which  makes  it  unsuitable  for 
frying  and  makes  drying  it  by  setting  it  on  the  stove  a  bad  practice. 

2.  Scratches  expose  the  steel  and  make  rust  possible.  Therefore,  metal 
spoons  and  scrapers  should  not  be  used  on  tin. 

3.  Tin  utensils  are  in  general  not  good  for  cooking  acid  foods  because 
even  the  best  tin  is  likely  to  be  acted  on  by  hot  acid. 

General  care: 

1.  Wash  tinware  in  hot  suds  made  with  neutral  soap. 

2.  Use  scouring  powders  if  necessary  to  remove  food  that  has  been 
burned  on. 

3.  Do  not  scour  tin  to  restore  its  brightness  because  the  tarnish  acts 
as  a  protective  coat  and  makes  the  utensil  wear  longer. 

Special  care: 

Boil  tin  utensils  for  two  or  three  minutes  in  a  solution  of  washing-soda 
made  in  the  proportion  of  6  quarts  of  cold  water  to  1  pound  of  washing-soda. 

Wood 

Advantages: 

Wooden  spoons  are  lighter  than  metal  spoons  and  not  so  noisy,  they  do 
not  scratch  saucepans,  they  do  not  discolor  the  hand,  they  are  non- 
conductors of  heat. 

Disadvantages: 

1.  Wooden  utensils  may  become  dented,  rough,  or  darkened. 

2.  They  are  likely  to  be  unsanitary  and  to  take  up  odors  because  of 
improper  cleaning. 

3.  If  wood  is  not  well  seasoned,  it  cracks  and  splinters  easily. 

General  care: 

1.  Fine  sand  is  better  than  soap  for  scrubbing  wood  because  the  alkali 
in  soap  combines  with  wood  to  form  a  dark  stain. 

2.  Never  use  hot  water  on  wood. 

3.  Scrub  wood  with  a  circular  motion,  but  rinse  it  and  dry  it  with  the 
grain  in  order  to  leave  the  fibers  flat. 

4.  Rub  steak  planks  thoroughly  with  some  food  oil,  until  the  wood 
has  absorbed  all  it  will. 

Special  care: 

1.  To  remove  dents,  put  a  wet  pad  of  several  thicknesses  of  cheese-cloth 
or  muslin  on  the  dent  and  cover  it  with  a  hot  iron.  The  steam  will  raise 
the  fibers  of  the  wood  much  as  it  raises  the  pile  of  velvet. 


KITCHEN  UTENSILS 


239 


2.  To  smooth  away  a  rough  place,  rub  it  with  steel  wool,  following  the 
grain  of  the  wood. 

3.  To  restore  the  color  of  wood  that  has  become  darkened,  use  steel 
wool  and  weak  hydrochloric  acid. 

Zinc  or  galvanized  iron 

Advantages: 

1.  Zinc  makes  a  good  sanitary  covering  for  table  tops. 

2.  It  does  not  become  tarnished  readily  by  action  of  the  air. 

3.  It  is  rust-proof. 

Disadvantages: 

1.  Zinc  becomes  tarnished  by  the  action  of  damp  air  and  is  affected  by 
salt,  which  prevents  its  lasting  well  on  the  seashore. 

2.  It  is  acted  on  b}^  acids. 

3.  It  cannot  be  used  for  cooking  utensils  because  it  is  affected  by  both 
acids  and  alkalis. 

General  care: 

Wash  zinc  with  hot  suds  made  of  mild  soap. 

Special  care: 

1.  Kerosene  dissolves  a  film  of  grease  and  helps  to  remove  inclosed  dirt. 

2.  Bath  brick  may  be  used  for  food  bins,  in  which  case  it  would  not  be 
desirable  to  use  kerosene. 

3.  Scour  zinc  with  a  paste  made  of  kerosene  and  baking  soda,  and  rinse 
it  thoroughly  with  hot  water. 

4.  Acids,  such  as  vinegar,  sulphuric  acid  in  the  proportion  of  one  part  of 
acid  to  twelve  parts  of  water,  or  alum  and  acetic  acid  may  be  used  to 
remove  tarnish,  but  they  eat  into  the  zinc.  The  metal  should  be  rinsed 
thoroughly  with  hot  water.    The  tarnish  is  likely  to  appear  soon  again. 


CHAPTER  XI 


TABLE  SETTING  AND  SERVING 

BY  Flora  Rose 

When  an  attempt  is  made  to  formalize  any  household  prac- 
tice, there  is  always  the  danger  of  red  tape.  Yet  some  formali- 
ties, if  based  on  a  strong  foundation  of  common  sense,  make  life 
more  unselfish  and  delightful.  A  safeguard  against  useless  for- 
mality is  to  keep  constantly  in  mind  this  fact — every  good  rule 
should  have  a  good  reason.  When  the  rule  is  being  applied, 
the  reason  should  be  made  to  appear.  If  in  any  household  no 
good  reason  is  forthcoming  for  the  formal  rule  imposed,  the 
rule  should  be  discarded.  This  is  particularly  true  in  table 
setting  and  serving  where  mere  formality  may  have  developed 
to  such  an  extent  as  to  obscure  original  good  reasons  for  doing 
things.  Yet  most  of  the  fundamental  rules  in  good  table  set- 
ting are  built  on  a  sound  foundation  of  reason. 

TABLE  SETTING 

The  table  itself  may  be  bare  wood  or  it  may  be  clothed  in 
finest  linen  or  oilcloth.  It  should  be  clean. 

For  each  person,  20  to  30  inches  of  lengthwise  space  should 
be  allowed,  unless  the  table  is  round  or  square  and  seats  only 
four  or  eight  persons.  Less  than  20  inches  means  uncomfort- 
able crowding;  more  than  30  inches  means  difficulty  in  talking 
across  the  distance. 

Covering  for  the  table 
The  reasons  for  covering  a  table  with  tablecloth,  table- 
square,  runners,  doilies,  or  napkins  are:  (1)  to  protect  the  sur- 
face of  the  table;  (2)  to  hide  the  surface  of  the  table;  (3)  to  in- 
sure quieter  service;  (4)  to  reflect  the  light;  (5)  to  improve  the 

240 


TABLE  SETTING  AND  SERVING  241 


appearance  of  the  table.  If  any  covering  is  used,  it  should  be 
clean.  A  rough,  bare,  clean  table  is  better  than  soiled,  rumpled 
linen,  no  matter  how  fine  and  expensive. 

A  tablecloth  may  make  a  more  homogeneous  picture  than 
either  doilies  or  runners,  and  its  unbroken  white  surface  re- 
flects more  light  than  a  partly  bare,  dark  table.  There  is  no 
other  good  reason,  however,  why  doilies  or  runners  may  not 
always  be  used  in  place  of  the  larger  cloth  to  protect  the  table. 
Any  rule  such  as  using  only  a  tablecloth  at  a  formal  dinner  is 
pure  form.  Doilies  and  runners  have  some  great  advantages. 
Small  pieces  of  linen  are  easy  to  wash,  and  if  one  is  spotted  it 
alone  may  be  washed.  Furthermore,  the  table  is  easier  to  set 
with  doilies,  particularly  for  a  small  family. 

To  set  the  table 
If  a  tablecloth  is  to  be  used. 

A  tablecloth  keeps  clean  and  unmussed  longer  if  a  heavy 
cotton  or  padded  cloth,  called  a  silencer  or  protection  cloth  or 
'^husher,^'  is  used  under  it,  than  if  it  is  placed  next  to  the  table. 
An  old  clean  sheet  may  serve  tliis  purpose  if  no  other  cloth  is 
available.  The  table  should  first  be  covered  with  the  silence 
cloth,  care  being  taken  to  arrange  it  so  that  it  will  not  hang 
below  the  tablecloth.  The  tablecloth  is  then  stretched  on  the 
table  so  that  the  center  fold  is  uppermost  and  so  that  the  cloth 
hangs  evenly  on  both  sides  and  at  both  ends  of  the  table.  Care 
should  be  taken  to  see  that  the  cloth  is  straight.  If  possible  to 
prevent  it,  a  cloth  should  not  hang  over  the  sides  and  ends  much 
more  than  12  or  14  inches,  since  otherwise  it  will  not  clear  the 
seats  of  the  chairs  and  will  spoil  the  appearance  of  the  table. 
Furthermore,  it  is  in  the  way  at  mealtime. 

If  doilies  are  used. 

Doilies  that  are  rectangular  are  better  than  round  or  square 
ones,  since  they  give  a  wider  space  for  the  arrangement  of 
silver  and  glasses  on  the  table  and  are  a  better  protection  to  it. 
The  doihes  should  first  be  arranged  at  one  end  and  on  one  side 
of  the  table.    On  the  side  one  should  try  to  space  the  doilies 


242 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


so  that  they  are  equally  distant  from  each  other.  Then,  ex- 
actly opposite  these  doilies,  those  to  be  used  at  the  other  end 
and  on  the  other  side  of  the  table  should  be  placed.  Doilies 
should  be  placed  so  that  one  edge  is  about  at  the  edge  of  the 
table. 

The  individual  cover. 

The  place  arranged  for  each  individual  at  the  table  is  called 
the  cover.  After  the  cloth  or  doilies  have  been  placed,  each 
individual  cover  should  be  arranged.  It  is  desirable,  as  a  rule, 
to  place  at  the  individual  cover  as  much  of  the  silver  and  china 
as  may  add  to  the  convenience  of  the  meal.  If,  for  example, 
spoons  are  placed  at  the  individual  covers  instead  of  in  a  holder, 
considerable  confusion  may  be  prevented  at  mealtime. 

Knives  are  placed  at  the  right  of  the  cover  with  the  sharp 
edge  of  the  blade  toward  the  plate.  This  is  because  the  knife 
is  usually  lifted  with  the  right  hand. 

Forks  are  placed  at  the  left  of  the  cover  with  the  tines  up. 
This  is  because  the  fork  is  lifted  in  the  left  hand  when  something 
is  being  cut  with  the  knife  and  fork.  If  only  a  fork  is  to  be  used, 
a  very  good  reason  may  be  found  for  placing  it  at  the  right  of  the 
plate.  It  is  in  general  a  good  rule  to  try  to  keep  a  balance  be- 
tween the  silver  on  each  side  of  the  cover,  since  all  the  silver  on 
one  side  makes  a  heavy-looking  design. 

Spoons  may  be  placed  at  the  right  of  the  knife  or  in  front  of 
the  plate  with  handles  toward  the  right  hand.  The  knife  and 
fork  nearest  the  plate  should  be  far  enough  apart  to  permit  the 
largest  plate  used  at  the  meal  to  be  set  between  them  without 
pushing  them  out  of  place.  They  should  not  be  spread  unneces- 
sarily far  apart.  All  the  silver  in  one  group  should  be  compactly 
placed. 

The  glass  may  be  placed  at  the  tip  of  the  knife  and  slightly 
to  the  right.  There  is  no  reason  why  it  should  not  be  placed 
at  the  tip  of  the  fork  and  slightly  to  the  left  if  preferred  in  that 
place.  The  butter-plate  may  be  placed  at  the  tip  of  the  fork 
and  slightly  to  the  left.  Butter-plate  and  glass  may  be  made 
to  change  places  if  preferred. 


TABLE  SETTING  AND  SERVING  243 


The  napkin  may  be  placed  at  the. left  of  the  forks,  at  the  right 
of  the  knives,  in  the  center  of  the  cover,  or  in  front  of  the  cover, 
according  to  convenience.  The  napkins  should  be  so  placed 
that  the  corners  of  each  face  the  same  way,  if  they  have  been 
so  ironed  that  this  is  possible. 

The  plate. — If  a  plate  is  set  at  the  individual  cover  before  the 
meal  begins,  it  should  be  placed  3^,  to  1  inch  from  the  edge  of 
the  table.  This  is  to  prevent  danger  of  tipping  through  any 
thoughtless  movement  of  the  individual. 

Relation  of  covers. — All  the  glasses  on  one  side  of  the  table 
should  be  in  a  straight  line.  The  same  is  true  for  butter-plates, 
silver,  and  napkins  or  other  utensils.  On  looking  down  the 
table,  a  straight  line  running  from  the  center  of  one  utensil 
should  strike  the  center  of  the  next  utensil  of  the  same  kind. 
This  makes  a  well-ordered,  trim  table.  If  each  side  of  the  table 
has  the  same  number  of  covers,  the  center  of  each  cover  on  one 
side  should  be  exactly  opposite  the  center  of  the  cover  on  the 
other  side.  The  ends  of  the  handles  of  all  the  silver  used  at  the 
covers  should  be  3^  to  ^  inch  from  the  edge  of  the  table  and 
should  be  in  a  straight  hne.  This  is  a  basic  principle  of  good 
design. 

General  equipment. 

There  is  a  certain  amount  of  general  equipment  which  must 
go  on  each  table.  This  varies  with  the  simplicity  of  the  meal 
and  with  the  formality  of  the  service.  As  formality  decreases, 
food  is  left  to  be  served  on  the  table. 

If  possible,  salt-containers  should  be  allowed  for  each  two 
persons  and  should  be  placed  inconspicuously  and  within 
reach  of  each. 

If  jelly  or  pickles  are  placed  on  the  table,  a  dish  of  jelly  at 
one  end  and  at  one  side  of  the  table  may  balance  a  dish  of  pickles 
at  the  other  end  and  on  the  other  side  of  the  table.  If  spoons 
or  forks  are  placed  for  serving  these,  they  should  be  placed 
straight  and  parallel  with  the  silver  at  the  sides  or  ends  of  the 
table,  not  on  the  bias. 

A  good  general  rule  is  not  to  cross  any  of  the  extra  silver  to 


244 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


be  used  for  serving  and  never  to  place  it  on  a  bias  line.  If,  for 
example,  a  small  butter-spreader  is  used,  it  should  be  placed  on 
the  butter-plate  parallel  to  all  the  other  silver,  or  placed  next 
to  the  other  knives.  The  reason  for  straightness  is  good  design. 

As  far  as  possible,  silver  for  service  should  be  arranged  on  the 
main  table  or  on  a  side  table  before  the  meal  begins.  This  silver 
may  be  placed  on  the  right  and  left  of  the  cover  of  the  server 
and  in  the  same  way  and  line  as  the  remainder  of  the  silver  at 
that  cover. 

If  cups  and  saucers  are  put  on  the  table  before  the  meal,  they 
should  be  arranged  in  such  a  way  as  to  facilitate  the  pouring  of 
the  beverage  and  the  passing  of  the  cups.  The  handles  of  the 
cups  should  all  be  in  line  and  in  a  position  for  the  server  to  take 
hold  of  them  most  conveniently.  Place  should  be  left  for  the 
pot  and  for  cream  and  sugar  servers,  and  these  should  be  placed 
in  such  a  way  as  to  facihtate  service.  The  handle  of  the  pot 
should  be  toward  the  hand  of  the  server. 

After  the  table  is  set,  the  chairs  may  be  arranged.  They 
should  be  in  straight  rows  and  sufficiently  far  from  the  table 
to  require  but  slight  moving  when  the  persons  are  seated. 

Just  before  the  meal,  the  glasses  should  be  filled  with  cold 
water,  the  butter  may  be  placed  on  the  plates,  and  the  bread 
may  be  cut. 

TABLE  SERVICE 

A  few  simple  rules  will  greatly  facilitate  attractive  and  con- 
venient serving.  No  attempt  will  be  made  here  to  discuss 
service  of  the  extremely  formal  type. 

To  pass  food 

Food  should  be  passed  at  the  left  of  the  person  sitting  at 
the  table.  This  is  because  it  is  easier  to  reach  across  than  around 
with  the  right  hand.  The  opposite  procedure  is  more  conven- 
ient for  left-handed  persons. 

When  food  is  passed,  the  dish  should  be  held  close  to  the  table 
with  the  edge  of  the  dish  slightly  over  the  edge  of  the  plate  of 
the  person  to  be  served.  This  prevents  accidents  and  is  con- 
venient for  the  person  served. 


TABLE  SETTING  AND  SERVING  245 


1  A  tray  is  not  necessary  for  passing  single  vegetable  dishes, 
salad  bowls,  or  platters.  In  fact,  safer  service  results  if  the 
serving  dish  rests  on  the  palm  and  spread  fingers  of  the  left 
hand.  The  hand  should  be  protected  with  a  folded  napkin. 
This  leaves  the  right  hand  free  to  rearrange  the  spoon  between 
servings  and  to  guard  against  possible  movements  of  persons 
at  the  table. 

To  place  food 

In  general  it  may  be  more  convenient  to  place  food  from 
the  right  of  the  person  served.  This  is  because  it  can  be 
placed  by  the  right  hand.  If  it  is  more  convenient  to  place  from 
the  left,  there  is  no  reason  against  so  doing.    When  a  cup  and 

I  saucer  are  placed,  the  handles  of  the  cup  and  the  spoon  should 

I  be  in  a  position  most  convenient  for  the  user. 

To  remove  dishes 
In  general  it  may  be  more  convenient  to  remove  dishes  from 
the  right  than  from  the  left  of  the  person  served.    They  may 
i  be  removed  from  either  side. 

To  serve  food  carved  or  served  at  the  table 
Semi-formal  method. 

It  is  more  convenient  for  the  carver  if  only  one  plate  is  placed 
!  in  front  of  him  at  a  time.    Hot  plates  should  be  kept  on  the  side 
;  table,  one  set  in  front  of  the  carver,  and  a  second  held  in  the 
left  hand.   The  waitress  should  stand  at  the  left  of  the  carver, 
unless  he  prefers  the  opposite  side.   When  the  plate  in  front  of 
the  carver  is  filled,  it  is  removed  from  the  left  with  the  right 
i  hand,  and  a  hot  plate  put  in  place  with  the  left  hand  in  order 
t  '  to  reduce  interference  with  the  carver.   After  placing  the  filled 
]     plate,  the  waitress  should  secure  a  fresh  plate  from  the  side 
table  and  return  to  the  same  position  by  the  carver. 

This  method  means  slow  service  and  should  not  be  followed 
e  i  unless  the  number  to  be  served  is  few  or  there  is  more  than  one 
,f  ■  waitress.    It  may  be  hurried  by  having  the  vegetables  served 
[.     at  the  other  end  of  the  table.    In  this  case,  the  plate  must  be 
carried  from  the  carver  to  the  server  and  then  placed  at  the 


246  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


intended  cover.  If  the  vegetables,  gravy,  and  bread  are  to 
be  passed,  the  following  order  may  be  observed:  potatoes, 
gravy,  bread,  other  vegetables,  condiment,  such  as  jelly  or 
pickles. 

Informal  method. 

For  the  informal  method,  all  the  plates  are  placed  in  front 
of  the  carver.  It  is  wisdom  on  the  part  of  the  carver,  with  this 
type  of  service,  to  cut  the  entire  number  of  portions  before 
beginning  to  serve. 

After  the  plate  is  filled,  the  carver  may  pass  it  with  his  right 
hand  to  the  person  at  his  left,  or  with  his  left  hand  to  the  per- 
son at  his  right.  In  this  order  it  is  passed  from  one  to  the  other 
until  it  reaches  its  destination.  The  vegetables  may  be  served 
by  the  carver  or  by  someone  at  the  opposite  end  of  the  table. 

Clearing  the  table  for  dessert 
Semi-formal  method. 

The  large  general  dishes  should  be  removed  first.  The  plates 
are  taken  from  the  individual  cover,  and  carried  from  the  room, 
one  in  each  hand.  Smaller  equipment,  such  as  salt  and  pepper 
dishes,  should  be  removed  on  a  small  tray.  Nothing  should  be 
left  on  the  table  which  is  not  to  be  used  for  the  remainder  of 
the  meal.  Glasses  may  be  left,  since  many  individuals  prefer 
water  toward  the  close  of  a  meal.  The  table  is  crumbed  with 
a  clean  folded  napkin  and  plate,  or  with  a  crumb  brush  or  knife 
and  tray.  One  should  replace  in  an  orderly  way  any  silver  or 
glassware  left  for  the  last  course. 

Informal  method. 

The  large  general  dishes  should  be  removed  first.  The  plates 
are  then  taken  from  the  individual  covers,  and  one  placed 
carefully  and  quietly  on  top  of  the  other.  One  should  not  at- 
tempt to  pile  more  than  can  be  safely  and  quietly  handled. 
It  saves  time  and  effort  to  have  a  wheeled  tray  or  a  large  tray 
on  the  side  table.  Plates  may  then  be  carried  two  at  a  time 
to  this  table,  carefully  stacked  upon  it,  and  all  removed  at 
once.   The  dining  table  should  then  be  crumbed. 


TABLE  SETTING  AND  SERVING 


247 


SOME  TABLE  MANNERS  AND  CUSTOMS 

The  order  of  serving  at  a  meal. 

If  little  children  are  present,  it  is  often  desirable  to  serve  them 
first,  since  they  eat  slowly  and  must  have  their  food  made 
ready  for  them.  Older  children  need  the  experience  of  waiting. 
In  the  family,  after  the  little  children  are  served,  the  mother 
is  served,  then  the  girls,  and  finally  the  boys. 

If  guests  are  present,  they  should  be  served  first  if  the  service 
is  informal;  if,  however,  the  service  is  semi-formal,  they  may 
be  served  first  or  the  hostess  may  be  served  first  and  the  guests 
next.  There  is  good  reason  for  this  last  rule  since  it  enables 
the  hostess  to  set  the  pace  in  choice  of  silver,  and  in  use  of 
equipment  and  food,  and  may  prevent  embarrassment  on  the 
part  of  guests.  If  two  guests  are  present,  a  man  and  a  woman, 
the  woman  should  be  served  first;  an  older  woman  should  be 
served  before  a  younger  one. 

At  a  dinner  where  both  men  and  women  are  present,  it  facil- 
itates service,  after  the  hostess  and  guest  of  honor  at  her  right  are 
served,  to  complete  the  serving  on  that  side  of  the  table  before  be- 
ginning on  the  other.  This  is  more  practical  though  not  so  chiv- 
alrous as  the  custom  at  formal  meals  of  serving  all  women  first. 

Handling  table  equipment. 

The  fork  functions  as  a  spear,  as  a  shovel,  and  as  a  pick.  The 
good  workman  learns  to  handle  his  tools  in  an  efficient  way. 
When  the  fork  functions  as  a  spear  to  hold  food  on  the  plate, 
there  is  only  one  way  to  hold  it  which  is  at  once  graceful  and 
altogether  efficient.  That  is  by  resting  the  top  end  of  the  fork 
in  the  palm  of  the  hand,  with  the  rounded  part  of  the  tines  up 
and  the  tip  of  the  forefinger  resting  on  the  waist  of  the  fork  and 
the  base  of  the  tines  to  steady  it.  When  the  fork  is  used  as  a 
pick,  it  should  be  held  in  either  hand  in  this  same  way.  The  food 
is  lifted  on  the  tips  of  the  tines,  the  hand  always  uppermost, 
and  carried  to  the  mouth.  When  the  fork  is  used  as  a  shovel, 
it  is  held  with  the  rounded  surface  of  the  tines  down  to  put 
the  bowl  uppermost.  The  fork  rests  on  the  top  of  the  curve 
in  the  hand  formed  by  the  thumb  and  forefinger  and  is  grasped 


248 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


between  the  thumb  on  the  body  side  and  the  forefinger  away 
from  the  body.  Food  is  scooped  up  by  this  shovel  and  trans- 
ferred by  rotary  motion  of  the  wrist  to  the  mouth. 

The  knife  was  first  used  to  cut  food  and  to  transfer  it  to  the 
mouth.  When  the  fork  was  introduced,  the  knife  lost  caste 
as  an  implement  for  transporting  food.  Its  only  acceptable 
use  at  present  is  to  cut  and  spread.  The  knife  is  held  in  the 
right  hand  in  the  same  way  as  the  fork  in  the  left  one. 

Knife  and  fork. — When  the  plate  is  passed  back  to  the  carver 
for  a  second  serving,  the  knife  and  fork  should  be  placed  to- 
gether and  sent  along  with  the  plate.  This  is  because  no  other 
place  is  so  safe  for  them.  At  the  close  of  a  meal  the  knife  and 
fork  should  be  placed  close  together  on  the  plate,  the  knife  at 
the  right,  the  fork  at  the  left,  and  the  handles  facing  the  same 
direction  in  which  they  were  originally  placed  on  the  table. 

The  spoon  is  useful  for  mixing  liquids  and  for  transferring 
soft  foods  from  the  plate  to  the  mouth.  The  spoon  should 
never  be  left  in  a  cup  or  high  glass  dish  after  its  use  as  a  stirrer 
or  feeding  implement  has  ceased,  since  it  gives  a  loose  handle 
which  endangers  the  safety  of  the  dish.  With  beverages,  the 
function  of  the  spoon  is  as  a  stirrer  and  taster,  and  not  as  a 
vehicle.  This  is  because  it  is  easier  to  sip  a  beverage  quietly 
from  the  cup  than  from  the  spoon. 

Soup  should  be  sipped  from  the  side  of  the  spoon.  When, 
however,  a  soup  is  full  of  solid  substances,  and  if  the  spoon  is 
a  soupspoon  and  not  a  tablespoon,  it  may  be  necessary  to  eat 
the  solid  part  of  the  soup  from  the  tip  of  the  spoon  instead  of 
sipping  it  from  the  side. 

Fork  and  spoon. — With  many  desserts  it  is  desirable  to  give 
both  a  spoon  and  a  fork.  For  example,  if  pie  is  served  with 
cream,  both  are  needed.  If  baked  apple  or  prunes  are  served, 
the  fork  helps  to  steady  the  food  on  the  plate  while  the  soft 
flesh  is  being  removed  from  the  core  or  seeds.  This  avoids  the 
removal  of  prune  seeds  from  the  mouth. 

The  glass. — Before  drinking,  the  lips  should  be  wiped  with 
a  napkin.  Otherwise  the  number  of  sips  may  register  them- 
selves on  the  side  of  the  glass. 


CHAPTER  XII 


THE  LAUNDRY  * 

By  Flora  Rose 

Washing  has  a  threefold  purpose:  to  remove  dirt  and  thus 
reopen  the  pores  of  the  cloth,  to  dr}^  the  cloth  so  as  to  renew 
its  power  of  absorption;  and  to  destroy  any  bacteria  that  may 
be  in  it. 

FABRICS 

A  first  step  toward  gaining  necessary  knowledge  of  laundry 
methods  is  to  learn  something  of  the  nature  of  the  fabrics  to  be 
laundered  and  how  they  respond  to  the  cleansing  agents  or 
solvents  generally  used  in  the  laundry  (p.  305).  The  common 
fibers  used  for  clothing  are  of  vegetable  and  animal  origin.  The 
chief  vegetable  fibers  are  cotton  and  linen;  the  animal  fibers, 
wool  and  silk.  Among  the  common  laundry  cleansing  agents, 
called  reagents,  are  two  classes  of  chemicals  known  as  acids  and 
bases,  or  alkahs. 

Even  cold  dilute  mineral  acids  may  seriously  injure  cotton 
and  linen  if  allowed  to  dry  on  the  material.  Fruit  acids  have 
no  action  on  cotton  and  linen  unless  allowed  to  dry  and  then 
moistened  and  ironed  dry.  Dilute  acid  does  not  affect  wool, 
but  it  weakens  silk. 

Weak  alkahs,  such  as  dilute  washing-soda  solution,  borax, 
and  soap,  have  little  or  no  harmful  action  on  cotton  and  linen, 
but  lye  is  more  destructive.  Dilute  solutions  of  borax  or  a 
mild  soap,  if  only  lukewarm,  have  but  a  slightly  injurious  ac- 
tion on  wool,  but  they  weaken  silk  and  destroy  its  luster. 


*  From  Cornell  Reading-Course  for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  11. 
249 


250 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


WATER 

Water  is  the  natural  solvent  for  much  of  the  dirt  that  accu- 
mulates on  clothing;  moreover,  it  acts  as  a  carrier  to  rid  the 
clothing  of  all  forms  of  dirt,  both  soluble  and  insoluble.  A 
water  good  for  the  laundry  should  be  clean,  soft,  clear,  odor- 
less, free  from  discoloration,  free  from  iron,  free  from  organic 
matter. 

Hard  and  soft  water. 

The  very  characteristic — ^its  solvent  power — that  renders 
water  valuable  as  a  cleansing  agent,  or  detergent,  is  the  cause 
of  its  greatest  shortcomings;  for  water  may  pass  over,  or 
through,  soils  that  contain  soluble  substances  of  an  undesirable 
nature.  The  characteristic  known  as  hardness,  possessed  by 
some  waters,  is  due  to  the  presence  of  lime  salts  gathered  in 
the  way  described.  Hard  water  is  not  the  best  for  laundry 
purposes,  since  lime  salts  decompose  the  soap  used  and  form 
in  its  place  an  insoluble  lime  soap,  which  collects  as  a  curd  on 
the  surface  of  the  water.  Such  soap  decomposition  takes  place 
as  long  as  any  lime  remains  in  the  water  and  the  cleansing,  or  de- 
tergent, properties  of  soap  are  not  in  operation  until  every 
bit  of  lime  has  combined  with  soap  to  form  lime  soap.  By 
leaving  minute  particles  of  lime  soap  in  its  pores,  hard  water  is 
said  to  weaken  a  fabric.  If  the  available  supply  of  water  is 
hard,  then,  the  problem  of  the  housekeeper  is  to  find  some 
means  of  removing  lime  or  of  reducing  its  ill  effects. 

According  to  the  nature  of  the  lime  salts  present,  water  is 
said  to  be  either  temporarily  or  permanently  hard.  Temporary 
hardness  is  caused  by  the  presence  of  carbonate  of  lime,  and 
such  water  may  be  softened  by  boiling.  If  the  boiled  water  is 
allowed  to  stand,  the  lime  settles  at  the  bottom  of  the  receptacle 
and  the  softened  water  may  be  drawn  from  the  top  of  it.  Per- 
manent hardness  is  due  to  the  presence  of  sulfate  of  lime  or 
magnesium.  BoiUng  has  no  softening  effect  on  permanently 
hard  water,  but  certain  reagents  are  effective. 

Another  salt  often  very  obnoxious  in  laundry  water  is  iron. 
Its  presence,  even  in  very  small  amounts,  may  give  a  yellow 


THE  LAUNDRY 


251 


tinge  to  clothing,  owing  to  the  deposit  of  minute  particles  of 
iron-rust  in  the  pores  of  the  fabric. 

Organic  matter  may  be  present  in  the  water  used  for  laundry 
purposes,  which  causes  clothing  washed  in  it  to  become  dan- 
gerous to  the  wearer.  It  is  very  desirable  in  all  the  cited  cases 
to  eliminate  mischievous  substances. 

Materials  for  softening  loater. 

A  number  of  materials  for  softening  water  are  on  the  market. 
The  cheapest  and  best  of  them  are  alkalis,  known  as  washing- 
soda,  lye,  borax,  and  ammonia.  In  softening  water,  the  objec- 
tion to  the  use  of  any  chemical  is  the  injury  it  may  do  to  the 
fabric. 

Washing-soda  (sodium  carbonate)  is  the  best  alkali  to  soften 
water  for  general  household  use,  for,  while  effective  in  its  action, 
it  is  not  so  corrosive  as  to  render  its  handling  difficult  or  its 
use  unduly  harmful,  nor  is  it  expensive.  It  should  never  be 
used  in  its  dry  form,  however,  for  it  is  an  alkali  sufficiently 
strong  to  eat  holes  in  a  fabric  if  it  is  used  in  full  strength,  and 
wherever  a  particle  of  the  dry  substance  falls,  a  strong  solution 
is  formed.  Carelessness  causes  many  of  the  complaints  against 
present-day  laundry  methods. 

Lye  (sodium  hydroxide,  or  caustic  soda)  is  an  alkali  of  far  greater 
strength  than  washing-soda;  one  pound  of  lye  being  equal  to 
about  twelve  pounds  of  washing-soda,  it  should  be  used  with 
just  so  much  the  greater  caution.  It  should  never  be  used  save 
in  solution  and,  as  the  solution  deteriorates  very  rapidly  on 
exposure  to  air,  if  any  quantity  is  made  it  should  be  kept  in 
bottles  or  jars  tightly  stoppered  with  rubber  stoppers.  The 
compound  formed  by  exposing  lye  to  the  action  of  air  and  water, 
is  washing-soda,  so  there  is  no  advantage  in  using  it.  Lye  is 
much  more  difficult  to  handle,  and  its  action  is  so  much  more 
corrosive  than  is  that  of  other  alkalis  that  it  is  not  ad- 
visable to  use  it  in  the  home  laundry. 

Borax  (sodium  bihorate)  is  one  of  the  mildest  alkalis  to  use 
in  the  laundry.  This  alkali  is  more  expensive  than  either  lye 
or  washing-soda  and  is  not  so  vigorous  in  its  action;  but  in 


252 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


some  instances  it  is  greatly  to  be  preferred.  Washing-soda 
and  lye,  unless  thoroughly  rinsed  from  clothing,  have  a  tend- 
ency to  cause  yellowing,  particularly  when  starch  is  used  after- 
ward. Borax,  on  the  other  hand,  has  a  tendency  to  whiten 
fabrics  and  is  added  directly  to  starch,  in  order  to  give  it  good 
color  and  to  increase  its  clearness.  When  colored  fabrics  or 
wools  are  to  be  washed  in  hard  water,  borax  is  one  of  the  best 
alkalis  to  use  for  softening  the  water. 

Ammonia  {ammonium  hydroxide)  is  another  good  alkali  for 
softening  water  when  it  is  not  advisable  to  use  stronger  alkalis. 
Ammonia  is  a  very  volatile  substance,  consequently  it  should 
be  used  only  when  the  laundry  process  is  to  be  conducted 
quickly.  It  is  better  and  cheaper  to  purchase  the  full-strength 
ammonia  from  a  druggist  and  then  dilute  it,  than  to  buy  the 
article  known  as  household  ammonia,  which  is  of  unknown 
strength. 

How  to  soften  water. 

Both  permanently  and  temporarily  hard  water  may  be 
softened  by  distillation,  but  that  method  involves  apparatus 
not  practicable  for  the  average  home. 

If  water  is  temporarily  hard,  however,  it  may  be  softened 
by  being  boiled,  then  allowed  to  stand  until  the  lime  settles. 
The  top  water  is  afterward  drawn  off.  Boiling  water  to  soften 
it  is  without  doubt  the  best  method  if  it  softens  the  water  suf- 
ficiently, since  no  harmful  chemicals  are  left  in  the  water  to 
injure  fabrics. 

Either  temporarily  or  permanently  hard  water  may  be 
softened  by  adding  lime  or  washing-soda  to  the  water,  then 
allowing  it  to  stand  in  open  kegs  for  several  days  before  its  use. 
The  water  should  then  be  drawn  from  the  top.  If  the  water 
is  boiled  after  the  addition  of  the  softening  agent,  the  time  for 
standing  may  be  considerably  lessened.  Neither  of  the  two 
processes  just  described  is  much  in  use  in  the  household,  since 
the  time  consumed  by  them  is  often  considered  unwarranted. 
The  more  common  method  is  to  add  washing-soda,  lye,  borax, 
or  ammonia  at  the  time  of  washing.    The  addition  of  one  of 


THE  LAUNDRY 


253 


those  substances  at  that  time  prevents  the  action  of  the  Hme 
on  the  soap.  A  good  suds  may  thus  quickly  be  obtained,  but 
it  does  not  rid  the  water  of  the  hme-soap  curd  which  forms  and 
which,  in  part  at  least,  becomes  entangled  in  the  pores  of  the 
cloth.  The  entangled  curd  has  a  weakening  action  on  the  fabric 
and  gives  it  a  close,  fiUed-in  appearance. 

The  only  satisfactory  method  of  getting  rid  of  iron  is  to  add 
washing-soda .  to  the  water,  then  allowing  the  water  to  settle 
for  five  or  six  days  before  using  it.  The  top  water  is  afterward 
drawn  off. 

Water  may  be  softened  by  any  of  the  following  methods : 

1.  For  each  gallon  of  water,  use  2  tablespoons  of  a  solution 
made  by  dissolving  1  pound  of  washing-soda  in  1  quart  of  boiling 
water.  The  solution  should  be  bottled  and  kept  on  hand,  as 
it  is  a  useful  cleansing  agent,  or  detergent. 

2.  For  each  gallon  of  water  use  V4  tablespoon  of  lye  dissolved 
in  1  cup  of  water. 

3.  For  each  gallon  of  water  use  1  tablespoon  of  borax  dis- 
solved in  1  cup  of  water. 

If  water  is  very  hard,  increase  the  amount  of  alkali  used. 

Organic  matter. 

Organic  material  may  be  precipitated  by  the  use  of  alum  in 
the  form  of  an  alum-borax  mixture.  The  sediment  should  be 
allowed  to  settle  and  the  water  may  then  be  drawn  from  the 
top. 

To  remove  organic  matter,  for  each  gallon  of  water  1  table- 
spoon of  a  mixture  made  up  of  two-thirds  borax  and  one-third 
alum  should  be  used.  If  the  water  is  rich  in  organic  matter, 
more  than  1  tablespoon  of  the  mixture  must  be  used.  When 
water  is  very  scarce,  alum  is  sometimes  used  to  separate  the 
dirt  from  the  water  and  the  water  is  then  filtered  and  used 
again. 

SOAP 

A  question  often  arises  as  to  the  advisability  of  using  kitchen- 
waste  fats  in  making  soap  at  home.  While  some  house- 
keepers may  find  such  use  an  economy,  the  fact  remains  that 


254 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


home-made  soaps  are  generally  poorly  made  and  of  inferior 
quality.  The  inferiority  of  home-made  soaps  may  have  several 
causes.  The  so-called  cold  process  is  usually  followed  in  making 
these  soaps,  and  rarely  is  the  union  of  the  fat  with  the  lye  com- 
plete. The  fat  used  in  home-made  soap  is  often  filled  with 
impurities  and  they  are  not  always  removed  before  the  soap  is 
made.  As  the  fat  in  kitchen  waste  varies  greatly  in  composition, 
it  is  impossible  to  give  the  exact  amount  of  alkali  required  for 
home-made  soap.  It  is  evident,  then,  that  home-made  soap 
is  likely  to  be  filled  with  impurities  and  to  be  both  greasy  and 
excessively  caustic,  eating,''  because  of  the  presence  of  free 
fat  and  an  undue  amount  of  free  alkali.  For  the  benefit  of 
those  housekeepers  who  wish  to  try  its  manufacture,  however, 
a  formula  is  given  on  page  256. 

Soap  substitutes  and  accessories. 

Soap  is  the  best  all-round  cleansing  agent  to  use  in  the  laun- 
dry, but  there  are  other  substances  with  similar  cleansing  prop- 
erties that  may  be  used  with  good  results  in  its  place : 

In  the  leaves,  stems,  roots,  or  bark  of  some  plants  occurs  a 
soap-like  substance  that  is  closely  allied  to  soap  in  its  power  to 
remove  dirt.  Soap-bark  (quillaia  bark)  is  a  familiar  example  of 
this  kind  of  cleansing  agent.  When  powdered  soap-bark  is 
put  into  water  it  gives  a  good  lather,  and  it  acts  quickly  and 
effectively  to  remove  dirt  and  stains. 

Another  substance  with  soap-like  characteristics,  but  of 
animal  origin,  is  known  as  ox-bile,  or  ox-gall.  Soap-bark  and 
ox-gall  are  doubtless  well  known  to  the  housekeeper,  for  they 
are  often  used  to  wash  garments  easily  injured  by  the  strong  al- 
kalis, for  example,  woolens,  and  fabrics  printed  in  delicate  colors. 

Bran,  rice,  potatoes,  and  starch  are  frequently  recommended 
as  good  substitutes  for  soaps  in  washing  delicate  fabrics  and 
colors. 

Various  substances  are  used  with  soap  to  facilitate  or  acceler-  ' 
ate  the  washing  process.   Among  them  may  be  mentioned 
lye,  washing-soda,  borax,  and  ammonia;  turpentine,  paraffin, 
kerosene,  and  benzine;  and  fuller's  earth. 


THE  LAUNDRY 


255 


Alkalis  are  often  used  in  connection  with  soap,  in  excess  of 
the  amount  needed  to  soften  hard  water,  to  facilitate  the  re- 
moval of  dirt  by  their  direct  action  on  it.  In  many  cases  it 
is  a  mistake  to  pursue  such  a  course  if  the  alkali  used  is  lye.  The 
same  objections  may  hold  with  washing-soda,  but  in  lesser 
degree.  If  the  fabric  is  of  such  nature  that  limited  amounts 
of  lye  or  washing-soda  will  not  seriously  injure  it,  a  strong  soap 
will  contain  all  the  free  lye  that  is  safe  to  use.  Borax  and  am- 
monia are  mild  alkahs  and  may  be  very  useful  when  the  pres- 
ence of  some  free  alkali  is  needed  and  the  effect  of  a  strong  soap 
would  be  injurious.  They  are  often  utilized  in  connection  with 
a  neutral  or  mild  soap  for  washing  flannels  and  delicately 
colored  fabrics. 

Turpentine,  paraffin,  kerosene,  and  benzine  are  all  valuable 
aids  to  the  laundress,  for  they  exert  a  solvent  action  on  matter 
of  a  fatty  nature  and  thus  soften  and  loosen  dirt,  materially 
facilitating  the  washing- process.  The  disadvantage  in  the  use  of 
these  substances  is,  that  clothing  in  the  washing  of  which  they 
have  been  used  may  be  insufficiently  rinsed  afterward  and  retain 
the  odor  of  them.  Benzine  is  dangerous  to  handle  because  of  its 
inflammability,  and  cannot  be  used  with  very  hot  water  because 
it  evaporates. 

Fuller's  earth  is  a  valuable  adjunct  in  cleaning,  and  is  some- 
times used  partly  to  replace  soap  in  the  washing  process  when 
the  articles  to  be  washed  are  in  a  very  greasy  condition  and  the 
use  of  a  strong  soap  is  not  sufficient,  and  when  the  use  of  a 
strong  alkali  is  not  advisable. 

Manufacturers  have  put  on  the  market  various  soaps  and 
powders  that  have  incorporated  with  them  some  one  or  more  of 
the  above  substances.  Naphtha  and  borax  soaps  and  soaps  con- 
taining fufler's  earth  give  satisfaction.  Good  results  may  be 
obtained  at  less  cost  by  the  use  of  soap  and  the  accessory  ma- 
terial uncombined,  though  it  may  often  be  more  convenient 
to  use  the  manufactured  article  that  is  a  combination  of  the  two. 

Washing  powders  are  mixtures  of  soap  and  some  alkali  such 
as  lye,  washing-soda,  and  borax,  and  may  have  incorporated 
with  them  some  one  or  more  of  the  substances  of  the  nature  of 


256 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


turpentine,  paraffin,  fuller's  earth.  In  the  case  of  the  poorer 
powders  a  '^filler''  is  used,  that  is,  a  substance  giving  weight 
to  the  powder  and  very  properly  considered  an  adulterant.  The 
best  powders  contain  large  amounts  of  soap  and  only  small 
amounts  of  alkali.  A  report  is  made  of  one  of  the  poorer  varie- 
ties of  washing  powder  containing  only  10  per  cent  of  soap. 
Enough  has  been  said  in  connection  with  the  effect  of  alkalis 
and  their  use  to  guide  the  housekeeper  in  her  purchase  and  use 
of  these  powders.  There  may  be  occasions  when  a  washing 
powder  is  desirable,  but  indiscriminate  use  of  these  strong  cleans- 
ing agents  is  inadvisable  and  should  not  be  generally  indulged  in. 

Directions  and  formulas. 
Home-made  soap: 

1  pound  can  lye  dissolved  in  3  pints  cold  water 

5  pounds  fat  melted,  13^  tablespoons  borax,  3^  cup  ammonia 

When  lye  mixture  has  cooled  add  it  to  fat,  stir  until  as  thick  as  honey, 

pour  into  wooden  or  pasteboard  boxes  lined  with  oiled  or  waxed  paper, 

set  away  to  harden. 

Soap-hark: 

1  pound  soap-bark  equals  2  pounds  soft  soap.   Use  in  place  of  soap. 

Bran: 

1  cup  bran 

1  quart  water 

Boil  }/2  hour.  Strain,  boil  bran  in  a  second  quart  water  3^  hour.  When 
needed,  reduce  with  warm  water. 

Potato  water: 

Grate  two  large-sized  potatoes  into  1  pint  clean,  clear,  soft  water. 
Strain  into  1  gallon  water,  let  liquid  settle.   Pour  off  and  use. 

Soap  solution  for  washing  colored  goods: 

pound  mild  or  medium  soap  to  1  gallon  water. 

Soap  solution  for  ordinary  purposes: 

1  bar  ordinary  washing  soap 

2  to  3  quarts  water 

Shave  soap  and  put  into  saucepan  with  cold  water.  Heat  gradually 
until  soap  is  dissolved  (about  1  hour). 

Soap  solution  for  soaking  clothes: 
1  bar  ordinary  soap 

3  gallons  water 

3^  to  1  tablespoon  turpentine 
1  to  3  tablespoons  ammonia. 


THE  LAUNDRY 


257 


Soap  solution  for  washing  much-soiled  woolens  and  delicate  colors: 
}/2  pound  very  mild  or  neutral  soap 
3^  pound  borax 
3  quarts  water. 

Soap  jelly  with  turpentine  incorporated: 
1  bar  soap 
1  quart  water 

1  teaspoon  turpentine  or  kerosene. 

A  liquid  for  washing  delicate  fabrics  and  colors  may  be 
made  from  laundry  starch,  grated  potatoes,  rice,  flour,  and  the 
like.  The  water  in  which  rice  has  boiled  may  be  saved  and 
utilized  for  the  same  purpose.  The  cleansing  liquid  after  cook- 
ing should  be  as  thick  as  cream  and  should  be  diluted  from  one 
to  four  times,  according  to  the  amount  of  dirt  in  the  clothing. 
Clothing  should  be  rinsed  in  a  more  dilute  solution,  which 
may  be  blued  for  white  clothes. 

STARCH 

There  is  a  twofold  reason  for  the  use  of  starch  in  laundry 
operations:  (1)  the  glazed  surface  of  a  starched  garment  keeps 
clean  longer  than  an  unglazed,  or  unstarched,  surface;  (2)  the 
increase  in  body  of  the  starched  garment  gives  it  increased  re- 
sistance to  moisture  and  some  garments  are  considered  corre- 
spondingly more  attractive  in  appearance.  In  the  commercial 
laundry  and  in  those  industries  in  which  the  finishing  of  fabrics 
is  a  consideration,  use  is  made,  not  of  one  kind  of  starch,  but  of 
several,  according  to  the  nature  of  the  work  to  be  done. 

The  American  housekeeper  uses,  as  a  rule,  only  cornstarch, 
because  of  its  cheapness  and  a  lack  of  knowledge  of  the  char- 
acteristics of  the  other  starches.  The  several  varieties  of  starch 
vary  considerably  in  their  ability  to  penetrate  fabrics.  The 
reason  for  the  use  of  rice  starch  with  finer  fabrics  by  those  con- 
sidered to  do  a  superior  grade  of  laundry  work,  is  because  of  its 
penetrative  quality.  It  is  said  to  penetrate  the  pores  of  a  fabric 
more  completely  than  does  any  other  starch  and  to  give  a  finer, 
smoother  finish.  Next  to  rice  starch  in  penetrability  comes 
wheat  starch.  Cornstarch  is  the  poorest  of  the  three  starches; 
it  has  a  tendency  to  lump  and  show  starch  spots  after  ironing. 


258 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Rice  starch  gives  a  natural,  pure  white  color  to  fabrics,  while 
cornstarch  gives  a  yellow  color,  and  wheat  starch  a  color  be- 
tween the  two.  Since  wheat  starch  and  cornstarch  are  the 
practical  possibilities  in  the  American  household,  further  com- 
parison will  be  between  these  two.  When  good  color,  smooth- 
ness of  surface,  pliability,  and  fine  finish  are  desired,  wheat 
starch  gives  the  better  results;  moreover,  it  is  said  to  hold  up 
better  in  damp  climates.  Cornstarch  gives  the  greater  stiffness, 
or  body,  to  a  fabric. 

According  to  the  finish  desired,  advantage  is  taken  of  the 
different  characteristics  of  wheat  starch  and  cornstarch.  When 
flexibility  and  finish  are  the  main  objects,  wheat  starch  is  used 
alone;  if  stiffness  is  the  chief  consideration  and  finish  may  be 
overlooked,  cornstarch  is  used  alone;  when  it  is  desirable  to 
combine  stiffness  with  flexibility  and  good  finish,  a  mixture  of 
cornstarch  and  wheat  starch  is  used.  There  is  no  reason  why 
the  use  of  wheat  starch  should  not  extend  to  the  home  laundry. 

Various  substances  are  used  with  starch  to  increase  its  pene- 
trability and  prevent  it  from  sticking  to  the  iron,  as  well  as  to 
give  pliability  to  the  cloth,  increase  its  body,  and  improve  its 
color.  Of  these  substances  may  be  mentioned  borax,  alum, 
paraflfin,  wax,  turpentine,  kerosene,  gum  arabic,  glue,  and  dex- 
trin. 

Borax  increases  the  penetrability  of  starch  and  aids  in  pre- 
venting it  from  sticking  to  the  iron.  Moreover,  starch  contain- 
ing borax  adds  gloss  to  a  garment,  increases  its  whiteness,  and 
gives  it  greater  body,  together  with  more  lasting  stiffness,  than 
it  would  otherwise  have. 

Alum  is  used  alone,  or  with  borax,  in  starch  to  improve  color, 
to  increase  penetrability  and  pliability,  and  to  thin  the  starch 
mixture.  When  alum  is  cooked  with  a  starch  paste  it  causes  the 
paste  to  become  thinner.  Cooking  thin  "  with  alum  does  not 
affect  the  strength  of  the  starch  mixture  and  is  an  advantage 
when  a  stiff  starch  is  desirable  and  the  thick  mixture  would  be 
inconvenient  to  handle.  By  the  use  of  alum,  starch  may  be 
made  thin  without  dilution.  Alum  has  been  objected  to  by  some 
persons  as  being  somewhat  injurious  to  fabrics. 


THE  LAUNDRY 


259 


Oily  substances,  such  as  wax,  paraffin,  turpentine,  lard,  or 
butter,  are  used  to  add  a  smoothness,  gloss,  and  finish,  to  pre- 
vent the  starch  from  sticking  to  the  iron,  and  to  aid  in  prevent- 
ing the  absorption  of  moisture. 

Substances  resembhng  glue,  such  as  gum  arable  and  dextrin, 
are  used  with  starch  to  increase  its  stiffening  power.  They  are 
sometimes  used  alone  when  the  white  color  of  starch  is  con- 
sidered a  disadvantage  in  stiffening  colored  fabrics. 

Directions  for  using  starchy  starch  substitutes,  and  starch  ac- 
cessories: 

In  making  starch,  a  naturally  soft  water  is  greatly  to  be  de- 
sired, but  if  the  water  furnished  is  hard  it  should  be  softened 
with  borax,  not  with  washing-soda  or  lye,  since  these  tend  to 
produce  a  yellow  color  with  starch : 

1.  M  cup  wheat  starch  to  1  quart  water  gives  flexible,  hght,  durable  finish. 

2.  14  cup  cornstarch  to  1  quart  water  gives  moderate  body  stiffness. 

3.  3^  cup  wheat  starch  to  1  quart  water  gives  flexible,  firm  finish. 

4.  'j/2  cup  cornstarch  to  1  quart  water  gives  stiff  body  finish. 

A  mixture  of  the  two  starches  may  be  varied,  to  produce  any 
desired  result. 

Directions  for  cooking  starch: 

Starch  should  first  be  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water  and  then 
stirred  slowly  into  boiling  water  and  cooked  in  accordance  with 
the  following  directions: 

1.  If  wheat  starch  is  used,  cook  slowly  at  least  25  or  30  minutes. 

2.  If  cornstarch  is  used,  cook  slowly  15  to  20  minutes. 

3.  If  a  mixture  of  wheat  starch  and  cornstarch  is  used,  the  wheat  starch 
should  be  added  first  and  cooked  15  minutes.  The  cornstarch  should  then 
be  added  and  the  mixture  cooked  15  minutes  longer.  Stir  the  mixture  fre- 
quently, to  prevent  sticking  and  formation  of  a  film. 

Thorough  cooking  of  starch  is  very  desirable  in  laundry  prac- 
tice, for  it  increases  the  penetrability  of  the  starch  and  decreases 
its  tendency  to  stick  to  the  iron.  If  borax,  lard,  butter,  kerosene, 
or  other  like  substance  is  used,  it  should  be  cooked  with  the 
starch,  to  insure  thorough  mixing. 


260  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Thick  starch: 

}/2  cup  starch,  mixed  with  3^  cup  cold  water 

1  quart  boihng  water 

3^  to  1  level  tablespoon  borax 

3^  level  tablespoon  lard  or  butter  or  kerosene  or  turpentine;  or  3^- 
inch-square  wax  or  paraffin 

Mix,  and  cook  according  to  directions  for  cooking  starch. 

Thin  starch: 

}/2  cup  starch,  mixed  with  3^  cup  cold  water 

3  quarts  boiling  water 

Other  ingredients,  same  as  for  thick  starch 

Mix,  cook  according  to  directions  for  cooking  starch. 

Clear  starch: 

Dilute  }/2  cup  thick  starch  with  1  quart  hot  water. 

Clear  starch  is  used  for  thin  muslins,  infants'  dresses,  and  the  like. 

Raw  starch: 

Same  proportions  as  for  thick  starch. 
Use  borax  but  omit  fatty  substances. 
Stir  thoroughly  before  using. 

Raw  starch  is  often  used  with  very  thick  or  very  thin  goods,  to  increase 
their  stiffness.  A  fabric  will  take  up  a  greater  amount  of  starch  in  the 
raw  than  in  the  cooked  form.  The  desired  stiffness  is  produced  by  the 
cooking  given  the  raw  starch  by  the  heat  of  the  iron.  The  difficulty  of 
ironing  is  increased  by  using  raw  starch,  for  unless  the  ironer  is  skillful 
the  starch  cooks  on  the  iron  and  starch  specks  are  then  produced  on  the 
clothes.  Moreover,  raw  starch  gives  a  less  durable  finish  than  does  cooked 
starch. 

Rice  starch: 

}/i  cup  rice 

1  quart  boiling  water 

Wash  rice,  cook  in  water  until  very  soft. 

As  water  evaporates,  add  more  to  keep  quantity  up  to  1  quart. 
When  cooked  add  another  quart  boiling  water. 

Strain,  without  squeezing,  through  double  thickness  of  cheese-cloth  or 
through  flannel.   Use  while  hot.   The  most  satisfactory  starch  for  delicate 
.  fabrics  is  rice  starch,  and  it  may  be  used  in  place  of  clear  starch. 

Glue  for  stiffening  dark  clothes: 
12  ounces  dark  glue 
1  quart  water 

Boil  together  until  glue  is  dissolved,  cool  somewhat.  Dip  the  garment 
to  be  stiffened  into  glue  and  wipe  off  excess  of  glue  with  piece  of  black 
cheese-cloth,  sateen,  or  calico.    After  sprinkling,  roll  garment  in  black 


THE  LAUNDRY 


261 


cloth  and  iron  on  ironing  board  covered  with  black  cloth.  Any  glue  left 
over  may  be  saved  and  used  again. 

To  increase  stiffness: 

1.  Partly  dry  garment  before  starching. 

2.  Add  1  tablespoon  powdered  gum  arabic  reduced  to  liquid  in  3^  cup 
boiUng  water,  to  the  stiff  starch  mixture. 

3.  Use  borax. 

4.  Add  a  small  amount  of  glue  to  starch  mixture. 

5.  Dry  quickly. 

Gum  arable  as  a  starch  substitute: 
4  tablespoons  pulverized  gum  arabic 
1  pint*  cold  water 
3  tablespoons  alcohol. 

Put  water  and  gum  arabic  in  saucepan  and  set  into  saucepan  containing 
boiling  water. 

When  dissolved,  strain  through  cheese-cloth,  cool,  add  alcohol,  pour  into 
a  bottle,  cork,  set  away  for  use.  The  alcohol  acts  as  a  preservative  and 
the  mixture  may  be  kept  for  any  length  of  time. 

BLUING 

White  fabrics  have  naturally  a  creamy  tint,  which  may  be 
deepened  to  an  unpleasant  pale  yellow  by  careless  washing, 
by  insufficient  rinsing,  or  by  lack  of  exposure  to  the  bleaching 
influence  of  sunlight  and  fresh  air.  Bluing  is  used  to  hide  the 
yellow  color,  because  blue  and  yellow  are  complementary  colors 
and  when  used  together  in  proper  proportions  give  the  effect  of 
whiteness.  Bluing  is  unwarrantably  used  to  hide  a  yellowness 
which  comes  from  careless  washing. 

No  one  kind  of  bluing  may  be  recommended  to  the  house- 
keeper. She  must  experiment  for  herself,  choose  one  good 
variety,  and  learn  to  use  that  one  properly. 

Sufficient  bluing  should  be  used  to  make  a  little  of  the  bluing 
water  taken  up  in  the  cup  of  the  hand  show  a  pale  sky-blue  color. 
More  than  that  amount  of  bluing  should  not  be  needed.  It  is 
always  best  to  make  a  small  amount  of  strong  bluing  in  a  bowl 
of  water,  then  draw  from  it  to  color  the  water  in  the  tub. 

WASHING 

While  Monday  has  long  been  chosen  as  the  home  day  for 
washing,  there  may  be  good  reason  to  postpone  the  process 


262 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


until  Tuesday.  Before  washing  day,  clothing  should  be  thor- 
oughly gone  over  to  discover  rents  and  stains,  carefully  sorted, 
and  the  white  clothes  put  to  soak.  This  preliminary  work  re- 
quires time  which  it  may  be  inconvenient  to  give  on  Saturday 
and  which  may  not  be  justified  on  Sunday. 

The  following  outline  is  suggested  for  the .  preparation  of 
clothes  for  washing: 

1.  Sort  the  clothes  according  to  kind: 

a.  White  cotton  and  linen  clothing 
Table  linen  and  clean  towels 
Bed  and  body  linen 
Handkerchiefs 

Soiled  towels  and  cloths. 

b.  Colored  clothing. 

c.  Flannels. 

2.  Mend  rents,  except  in  stockings.  ^ 

3.  Remove  stains  (pages  282  to  306). 

4.  Put  as  many  white  clothes  to  soak  as  is  practicable.  Some  colored 
clothes  having  fast  colors  may  be  soaked  if  very  much  soiled. 

The  purpose  of  soaking  soiled  clothes  before  washing  them 
is  to  soften  and  separate  the  fibers  of  cloth  in  order  to  loosen 
dirt.  Water  alone  accomplishes  this  purpose  to  a  great  extent; 
but  the  use  of  a  soap  solution,  or  a  soap  solution  to  which  has 
been  added  borax,  ammonia,  or  other  alkali,  and  turpentine, 
kerosene,  or  benzine,  makes  the  washing  process  both  easier 
and  quicker. 

It  is  well  before  beginning  the  washing  to  make  a  soap  solu- 
tion, as  it  gives  a  quick  suds  and  is  more  easily  handled,  and 
its  use  will,  therefore,  save  time. 

All  the  clothing  should  not  be  put  to  soak  in  the  same  tub. 
If  three  tubs  are  available,  table  linen  and  clean  towels  should 
be  soaked  in  one,  bed  linen  and  body  linen  in  a  second,  soiled 
towels  and  cloths  in  a  third.  If  only  two  tubs  are  available, 
table  linen  and  clean  towels  may  be  washed  without  prelim- 
inary soaking.  Soiled  towels  and  cloths  should  always  be 
soaked  before  washing. 

If  colds  have  prevailed  in  a  family,  the  handkerchiefs  should 
be  put  to  soak  in  a  solution  of  boric  acid  in  a  basin  by  them- 


THE  LAUNDRY 


263 


selves,  and  should  be  separately  washed  and  boiled  for  twenty 
minutes. 

The  garment  to  be  soaked  should  be  wet,  the  more  soiled 
part  rubbed  with  soap  solution,  and  that  part  folded  in.  Each 
garment  should  be  folded  and  rolled  separately  and  packed 
into  the  tub  with  the  other  garments.  Folding  and  rolHng 
prevents  the  dirt  in  the  soiled  parts  from  spreading.  The 
clothes  are  then  covered  with  warm  soapy  water,  to  which  may 
have  been  added  an  alkali  such  as  borax  or  ammonia,  and 
an  oily  substance,  perhaps  turpentine,  kerosene,  or  benzine. 
Directions  for  making  soap  solutions  are  given  on  page  256. 
The  tub  should  be  covered,  and  if  possible  the  clothing  allowed 
to  soak  in  it  during  several  hours  or  overnight.  If  colored 
clothes  are  to  be  soaked,  they  should  be  covered  with  warm 
water  or  with  water  very  sUghtly  soapy.  No  alkali  should  be 
used  with  the  colored  clothing. 

No  arbitrary  order  can  be  recommended  for  washing  clothes, 
but  flannels,  white  goods,  and  colored  goods  should  be  washed 
separately  as  the  washing  process  differs  somewhat  for  each  case. 

A  few  simple  explanations  may  aid  the  houskeeper  in  solving 
some  of  her  problems.  Heat  tends  to  expand  the  threads  of 
the  cloth,  and  the  expansion  aids  in  removing  dirt  caught  be- 
tween the  threads.  If  the  cloth  is  cooled  during  the  washing 
process,  the  thread  contracts  and  the  dirt  is  again  entangled; 
consequently,  after  the  cloth  has  once  been  warmed,  one  of 
the  objects  of  the  launderer  should  be  to  maintain  an  even  or 
a  rising  temperature.  In  the  commercial  laundry,  an  even 
temperature  is  kept  by  turning  the  correct  amount  of  steam 
into  the  washing-machine.  In  the  home  laundr}^,  boiling  water 
added  from  time  to  time  will  aid  in  keeping  an  even  tempera- 
ture. A  good  suds  is  necessary  in  the  washing  process.  As 
the  suds  falls,  that  is,  as  it  is  used  up  by  uniting  with  dirt,  more 
suds  should  be  supplied  by  adding  more  soap  or  soap  solution. 
If  insufficient  soap  is  used,  insoluble  black  specks  are  often  left 
on  the  clothing. 

All  utensils,  receptacles,  and  apparatus  should  be  immacu- 
lately clean. 


264 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Order  of  washing  white  linen  and  cotton  clothes : 

1.  Put  water  on  to  heat. 

2.  Make  soap  solution. 

3.  Rinse  clothes  from  water  in  which  they  have  soaked. 

4.  Wash  clothes  in  warm  suds  in  following  order: 

a.  Table  linen  and  clean  towels 

b.  Bed  linen 

c.  Body  linen 

d.  Handkerchiefs 

e.  Soiled  towels  and  cloths 

f.  Stockings 

5.  Wash  again  in  clean  suds.  Wring. 

6.  Boil  in  clean,  slightly  soapy  water. 

7.  Rinse  in  clean,  clear  water.  Wring. 

8.  Rinse  in  bluing  water.  Wring. 

9.  Starch. 

10.  Hang  to  dry. 

11.  Remove  from  line,  dampen,  and  fold. 
Directions  for  washing: 

1.  Have  plenty  of  hot  water  before  beginning  the  washing.  If  possible 
the  water  should  be  soft;  if  it  is  not,  soften  it  as  directed  on  pages  252 
and  253. 

2.  Make  a  soap  solution;  use  one  cake  of  soap  to  two  or  three  quarts 
of  water. 

3.  Rinse  the  clothes  from  water  in  which  they  were  soaked,  removing 
as  much  of  the  dirt  as  possible.  Parts  of  the  clothing  that  are  very  much 
soiled  should  be  rubbed  a  little  and  rinsed  in  fresh  water  before  the  gar- 
ments are  put  into  a  tub  or  a  washing-machine.  The  precaution  of  rinsing 
saves  wear  and  tear  on  the  whole  garment. 

4.  Pour  warm  water  into  tub  or  washing-machine;  if  the  water  is  hard, 
soften  it  with  washing-soda  solution  or  borax.  Add  enough  soap  solution 
or  soap  to  make  a  good  suds.  A  tablespoon  of  turpentine,  kerosene,  or 
benzine  may  be  added  to  the  washing  water  as  well  as  to  the  water  in  which 
clothing  has  soaked.  Put  in  clothes  to  be  washed.  Rubbing  is  essential 
for  soiled  garments.  It  may  be  accomplished  in  one  of  two  ways:  by 
using  the  washboard  and  old-fashioned  tub,  or  by  using  a  washing-machine. 
It  is  well  to  have  a  board  for  very  soiled  parts,  such  as  hems  and  edges, 
but  the  washing-machine  is  a  great  improvement  on  the  older  method. 

Whenever  the  water  becomes  dirty,  use  fresh  suds.  Clothes  cannot 
be  made  clean  without  the  use  of  plenty  of  water.  Keep  up  a  good  suds 
while  washing,  and  add  hot  water  from  time  to  time.  If  a  washing-machine 
is  used,  do  not  put  enough  water  in  the  machine  to  float  the  clothes;  if 
this  is  done,  they  will  escape  the  mechanical  action  of  the  dasher  and  will 


THE  LAUNDRY 


265 


not  be  sufficiently  rubbed.  Clothes  should  be  wrung  from  the  wash  water 
through  the  wringer.  The  screws  of  the  wringer  should  be  adjusted  to 
bring  its  rolls  close  together  and  clothing  should  be  folded  so  as  to  give 
it  an  even  thickness  in  passing  through  the  wringer;  for  heavier  garments 
loosen  the  screws  of  the  wringer.  Fold  in  buttons  and  hooks  and  turn  the 
wringer  slowly. 

5.  A  second  suds  is  generally  necessary,  though  it  may  be  omitted  if 
the  clothing  has  been  only  slightly  soiled.  Shake  out  clothes  wrung  from 
the  first  suds,  look  them  over  for  soiled  parts,  turn  them  wrong  side  out, 
and  drop  them  into  a  second  suds.   Wash  and  wring  them  ready  for  boiling. 

6.  Clothes  should  be  clean  before  they  are  boiled,  as  the  boiling  process 
is  intended  not  so  much  to  remove  visible  dirt  as  to  destroy  germs  and 
purify  the  clothing  as  well  as  to  whiten  it.  Boiling  is  omitted  when  a 
naphtha  soap  is  used,  because  the  soap  loses  its  effect  in  very  hot  water;  it  is 
asserted  that  boiling  is  not  needed  because  naphtha  itself  is  a  purifier. 
Nevertheless,  at  least  once  a  month,  the  clothing  washed  at  other  times 
with  naphtha  soap  should  be  boiled. 

Fill  the  boiler  half  full  of  cold  water;  if  the  water  is  hard,  soften  it. 
Add  enough  soap  solution  to  make  a  Hght  suds.  Half  fill  the  boiler  with 
clothes,  wrung  and  shaken  out  from  the  last  suds.  Use  plenty  of  water 
and  do  not  put  too  many  clothes  into  the  boiler.  Bring  the  water  very 
gradually  to  the  boiling  point,  and  boil  it  for  ten  minutes. 

Kerosene  or  turpentine  is  sometimes  added  to  the  boiler  water  to  counter- 
act the  yellow  color  given  clothing  by  the  use  of  the  dark  resin  soaps. 
It  is  better  to  avoid  kerosene  and  turpentine  at  this  point  if  possible,  because 
clothing  treated  by  them  requires  very  thorough  rinsing  to  remove  the 
odor.  Each  boilerful  of  clothes  should  be  started  with  clean  cold  water. 
Cloths  or  clothes  containing  lampblack  or  machine  oil  may  be  placed 
in  the  hot  water  left  in  the  boiler  after  the  last  clothes  have  been  wrung 
from  it.  Kerosene  or  turpentine  should  then  be  added,  since  they  are  the 
solvents  for  such  dirt.   

7.  Rinsing  is  an  important  part  of  the  washing  process,  for  if  soap  or 
some  of  the  strong  alkalis  are  left  in  the  cloth,  they  may  be  very  detri- 
mental in  the  bluing  or  starching  process. 

If  water  is  hard,  it  should  be  softened  for  rinsing  with  either  borax  or 
ammonia  and  not  with  washing-soda.  The  rinsing  water  should  be  hot. 
The  clothes  should  be  slowly  lifted  with  a  clean  stick  from  the  boiler  into 
a  dishpan,  and  drained  or  wrung  and  shaken  before  being  put  into  the  rinse 
water.  It  is  not  always  practicable  to  use  more  than  one  rinse  water 
before  bluing  the  clothes,  but  better  results  are  obtained  when  the  clothes 
are  rinsed  more  than  once.  With  some  kinds  of  bluing,  the  presence  of 
soap  or  an  alkali  precipitates  the  blue  as  iron-rust.  If  the  starch  used  is 
not  pure,  and  any  lye  or  washing-soda  or  soap  has  been  left  in  the  cloth, 
a  yellow  color  is  produced  from  the  starch  impurities  by  the  action  of  those 
alkalis.   Wring  the  clothes  from  the  rinsing  water,  and  shake  them  out. 


266 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


8.  It  is  impossible  to  give  any  rule  for  the  amount  of  bluing  to  use 
or  the  depth  of  color  to  be  decided  on.  Some  fabrics,  such  as  soft,  loosely- 
woven  ones,  absorb  more  bluing  than  others.  The  amount  of  bluing  to  be 
used  is  a  matter  for  experimentation  by  the  launderer.  Clothes  should 
not  be  allowed  to  stand  in  the  bluing  water,  as  they  might  become  streaked. 

If  a  ball  bluing  is  used,  tie  it  in  a  thick  cloth,  wet,  and  squeeze  it  into 
a  bowlful  of  hot  water.  Use  a  part  of  the  resulting  solution  for  bluing 
the  water.  More  of  the  bluing  in  the  bowl  should  be  added  to  the  bluing 
in  the  tub  from  time  to  time  as  the  clothing  takes  it  up.  As  some  kinds 
of  bluing  are  in  the  form  of  minute  particles,  the  bluing  water  should  be 
stirred  each  time  before  adding  clothes  to  it.  After  they  are  wrung, 
unstarched  clothes  will  then  be  ready  for  drying. 

9.  Make  the  starch  according  to  directions  on  pages  259  to  261.  Starch 
those  garments  requiring  thick  starch  first,  because  moisture  from  the 
clothing  gradually  thins  the  starch,  and  a  medium  stiff,  medium  thin, 
and  thin  starch  gradually  result. 

Stiff  starch:  Collars,  cuffs,  shirt  bosoms. 

Medium  stiff  starch:  Shirt  waists,  collars  and  cuffs,  coarse  lace  curtains. 
Medium  thin  starch:  White  petticoats,  duck  skirts,  and  some  dresses. 
Thin  starch:  Skirts  and  dresses  when  a  stiff  finish  is  not  desired;  shirt 
waists. 

Clear  starch:  Infants'  dresses,  fine  laces,  curtains,  light-weight  table  Hnen 
when  it  is  desirable  to  give  it  some  body. 

Raw  starch:  Collars,  cuffs,  shirt  bosoms  when  an  extra  stiffness  is  desired; 
some  light  curtains. 

The  starch  should  be  thoroughly  worked  into  the  cloth  so  as  to  distribute 
it  evenly  through  the  threads  of  the  fabric.  Such  working  insures  a  smooth, 
even  stiffness  and  prevents  starch  spots  in  ironing.  All  garments  starched 
with  boiled  starch  should  be  dried  thoroughly  before  being  dampened. 
They  should  be  dampened  several  hours  before  being  ironed.  If  articles 
are  to  be  raw-starched,  they  should  be  thoroughly  dried  first.  They  are 
then  dipped  into  the  raw  starch  and  rubbed  as  for  washing,  squeezed  dry, 
and  spread  out  on  a  clean  sheet  or  cloth,  but  not  one  over  the  other.  They 
should  cover  only  half  the  sheet.  The  other  half  of  the  sheet  should 
be  folded  over  them.  Then  the  sheet  with  its  contents  should  be  rolled 
tightly  and  allowed  to  stand  for  two  or  three  hours  to  insure  even  distri- 
bution of  moisture. 

10.  When  possible  the  process  of  drying  should  accomplish  more  than 
the  mere  removal  of  moisture.  Clothing  should  be  hung  where  it  will  be 
freely  exposed  to  the  action  of  fresh  air  and  sunshine.  Such  exposure  puri- 
fies and  bleaches  at  the  same  time. 

The  launderer  should  be  provided  with  a  clothes-pin  bag  or,  better  still, 
with  a  clothes-pin  apron  having  a  deep  wide  pocket. 

When  possible,  lines  should  be  taken  down  each  week,  but  when  they 
cannot  be,  they  should  be  well  wiped  with  a  damp  cloth  before  hanging 


THE  LAUNDRY 


267 


up  clothes.  The  clothes-pins  should  ])e  clean.  Each  article  should  be 
turned  wrong  side  out  and  liung  with  the  threads  of  the  material  straight; 
the  garment  should  be  shaped  as  nearly  as  possible  in  its  natural  shape. 
Avoid  hanging  pieces  by  corners,  for  thus  hung  they  would  be  pulled  out 
of  shape.  Fasten  garments  by  their  bands  when  possible.  Table  hnen, 
bed  linen,  and  towels  should  be  well  stretched  and  hung  very  straight; 
the  larger  pieces  should  be  pinned  in  at  least  four  places,  as  it  is  nearly 
impossible  to  iron  properly  a  piece  that  has  been  improperly  hung.  Careful 
hanging  greatly  reduces  the  labor  of  ironing.  When  the  clothes  are  brought 
in  from  the  line,  the  clothes-pins  should  be  put  into  the  apron  or  basket 
kept  for  that  purpose  and  placed  where  they  will  be  clean. 

Starched  pieces  should  not  be  allowed  to  freeze  and  should  be  removed 
from  the  line  as  soon  as  dry.  Long  hanging  reduces  their  stiffness.  If 
flannel  underwear  is  properly  stretched  and  hung,  it  may  be  folded  and  put 
away  T\dthout  further  treatment. 

11.  Clothes  should  be  dampened  some  hours  before  being  ironed, 
because  during  the  interval  between  moistening  and  ironing  the  moisture 
becomes  distributed  evenly  and  does  away  with  the  necessity  of  using  a 
superfluous  amount  of  watfer.  The  dampening  is  best  done  at  night,  but 
only  as  many  articles  should  be  sprinkled  as  can  be  ironed  next  day,  for 
damp  fabric  will  mildew  if  left  wet  for  a  few  days,  especially  in  hot  weather. 
Although  clothes  should  be  well  dampened,  they  should  not  be  drenched. 
Very  often,  trouble  in  ironing  starched  pieces  is  o^A^ng  to  overwetting. 
The  starched  part  is  soaked  and  made  limp  and  sticky.  A  clean  whisk- 
broom  kept  for  the  purpose  is  the  best  thing  to  use  for  sprinkling  clothes. 
Some  persons  have  used  a  toy  sprinkling  pot.  There  is,  however,  a  danger 
in  its  use,  for  it  may  rust  and  give  rise  to  rust  spots  on  clothing.  Large 
pieces  should  be  sprinkled  and  folded  separately.  Small  pieces  may  be 
sprinkled  and  laid  together  before  folding.  Care  should  be  taken  to  fold 
and  roll  garments  smoothly,  since  this  aids  in  their  ironing.  The  rolls  of 
dampened  pieces  should  be  packed  closely  in  a  basket  lined  \^ith  a  clean 
cloth  and  covered  with,  a  clean  cloth. 

Table  linen  and  other  linen  should  be  made  very  damp,  not  wet.  If 
table  Hnen  is  sprinkled  with  a  mixture  of  one  part  alcohol  and  four  parts 
water,  the  result  after  ironing  will  be  a  slight  stiffness  resembling  that  of 
new  linen. 

If  an  ironing  machine  is  used,  unstarched  pieces  may  be  removed  from 
the  line  while  stiU  damp  and  ironed  immediately  without  the  preliminary 
sprinkling. 

Washing  colored  clothing. 

Colored  goods  require  more  careful  treatment  than  do  white 
goods.  The  conditions  that  most  affect  the  stability  of  colors 
in  fabrics  are:  long-continued  action  of  water  and  soap;  strong 


268 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


alkalis  or  acids;  strong  sunlight,  which  is  a  powerful  bleaching 
agent  and  is  used  frequently  for  bleaching. 

In  washing  colored  clothing,  the  factors  just  enumerated 
should  be  kept  in  mind.  Colored  clothing  should  not  be  soaked 
for  any  length  of  time  unless  its  color  is  known  to  be  very 
stable.  Any  soap  used  in  the  washing  process  should  be  a  mild 
soap  in  solution,  or  if  the  color  of  the  goods  to  be  washed  is 
very  delicate  the  soap  solution  should  be  replaced  by  soap- 
bark,  bran,  rice  water,  potato  water,  or  cooked-starch  water. 
The  washing  process  should  be  conducted  quickly,  and  in  water 
not  very  hot.  After  washing,  colored  garments  should  be 
turned  inside  out  and  hung  in  a  very  shady  or  dark  place,  and 
should  be  taken  in  as  soon  as  dry.  Fading  is  more  often  due 
to  careless  drying  than  to  any  fault  in  washing.  Washing 
powders  and  strong  alkalis  should  never  be  used  with  colored 
clothing.  If  the  water  needs  softening,  borax  should  be  used. 
If  starch,  bran,  rice  water,  and  the  like,  are  substituted  for 
soap,  the  mixture  should  be  employed  as  if  it  were  soap- 
suds. 

In  starching  colored  clothes,  the  starch  should  be  rubbed 
in  thoroughly,  and  any  excess  of  it  wiped  off;  no  difficulty  will 
then  be  experienced  with  white  starch  spots. 

Sometimes  a  fabric  shows  a  decided  tendency  to  fade  even 
under  the  best  washing  conditions.  It  is  always  well  if  there 
is  any  doubt  about  fading,  to  test  a  small  piece  of  the  cloth 
before  washing  it.  If  the  color  fades,  an  attempt  should 
be  made  to  set  it.  With  most  colors,  the  dyer  uses  chemical 
substances  which  cause  a  firmer  union  between  the  color  and 
the  cloth.  Such  substances  are  called  mordants.  The  process 
of  making  a  color  fast  may  sometimes  satisfactorily  be  used  by 
the  housekeeper  to  strengthen  weak  colors.  The  household 
mordants  are  vinegar,  brine,  and  sugar  of  lead,  used  in  the  fol- 
lowing proportions : 

To  1  gallon  water  add: 

3^  cup  mild  vinegar;  most  effective  for  blues 

2  cups  salt;  most  effective  for  browns,  blacks,  and  pinks 

1  tablespoon  sugar  of  lead  (poison) ;  most  effective  for  lavenders. 


THE  LAUNDRY 


269 


Small  pieces  of  cloth  should  be  tested  in  each  of  the  above 
solutions  and  a  choice  made  after  the  test.  The  cloth  of  which 
the  color  is  to  be  made  fast  should  be  left  in  the  mordant  solu- 
tion overnight  and  may  be  left  in  for  several  days  with  good 
results.  It  should  be  thoroughly  dried  before  being  washed. 
Even  with  relatively  strong  colors,  soaking  a  fabric  overnight 
in  a  brine  solution  before  washing  it  for  the  first  time  may 
render  it  far  less  susceptible  to  fading  influences  than  it  other- 
wise would  be.  The  effect  of  brine,  however,  is  said  not  to  be 
lasting.  Colored  goods  are  often  rinsed  in  a  dilute  salt  solu- 
tion just  before  being  dried. 

Washing  woolens. 

Strong  soaps  should  never  be  used  in  washing  woolens,  nor 
should  soap  be  applied  directly  to  the  garment.  The  soap 
should  be  used  in  solution.  A  great  deal  of  stress  is  laid  on 
having  the  water  used  in  washing  flannels  not  much  more  than 
lukewarm,  for  at  a  lukewarm  temperature  soap  and  water 
have  a  less  detrimental  action  on  wool.  It  is  even  more  im- 
portant than  the  lukewarm  water  to  have  all  the  waters  used 
of  the  same  temperature,  in  order  to  avoid  changes  from  hot 
to  cold  water,  or  vice  versa,  as  sudden  changes  in  temperature 
cause  shrinkage. 

To  wash  flannels,  two  receptacles  should  be  used.  Into  one 
of  them  water  not  too  hot  for  the  hand  to  bear  comfortably 
should  be  poured  and  enough  soap  solution  made  from  a  neu- 
tral or  mild  soap  or  a  wool  soap  added  to  make  a  good  suds.  If 
the  water  is  hard,  or  the  clothing  is  very  much  soiled,  a  table- 
spoon of  borax  or  ammonia  should  be  added  for  each  gallon 
of  water  used,  the  garment  shaken  or  brushed  free  from 
dust,  and  put  into  the  water  to  soak  for  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes. Before  beginning  to  wash  the  flannels,  a  second  tub  of 
water  should  be  prepared  having  the  same  or  a  slightly  higher 
temperature  than  that  of  the  first.  One  garment  should  be 
washed  at  a  time  by  drawing  it  through  the  hands  and  wash- 
ing it  up  and  down  in  the  water;  rubbing  should  be  avoided 
if  possible  since  this,  mats  the  fibers.   The  garments  are  passed 


270 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


from  the  first  to  the  second  water;  the  second  water  should  be  a 
suds  if  the  first  suds  has  not  removed  all  the  soil.  They  should 
be  rinsed  free  of  soap  in  several  waters,  the  temperature  being 
kept  constant.  They  are  then  wrung  through  a  loosely  set 
wringer.  They  should  be  turned  wrong  side  out  and  hung 
in  a  warm  place,  but  not  near  a  fire  as  heat  will  cause  shrinkage. 
When  nearly  dry,  they  should  be  turned.  When  drying  they 
must  be  shaped  by  pulling  and  stretching. 

It  is  a  mistake  to  ascribe  all  the  shrinkage  in  woolen  garments 
to  washing.  The  moisture,  heat,  and  movements  of  the  body 
may  cause  a  marked  shrinkage. 

If  flannels  are  to  be  pressed,  they  should  be  allowed  to  dry 
first  and  should  then  be  covered  with  a  slightly  dampened 
piece  of  cheese-cloth  and  ironed  with  a  moderately  hot  iron. 
The  cheese-cloth  draws  up  the  fibers  of  the  flannel,  giving  it 
the  fluffy  appearance  of  a  new  garment.  Underwear  and  woolen 
stockings  should  be  stretched  into  shape  and  should  not  be 
ironed.  For  very  soiled  garments  the  soap  formula  given  on 
page  256  will  be  useful. 

Blankets  are  washed  in  the  same  way  as  other  woolen  articles, 
except  that,  because  of  their  size,  only  two  blankets  or  only 
one  pair  of  them  is  washed  at  a  time,  and  fresh  water  is  used 
for  each  pair.  After  wringing,  they  may  be  stretched  and  dried 
on  curtain  stretchers.  If  stretchers  are  not  available,  blankets 
should  hang  on  the  line  until  perfectly  dry,  and  occasionally 
the  water  should  be  squeezed  from  the  hanging  ends.  To  press 
them,  they  should  be  folded  evenly  and  carefully  and  wrapped 
in  a  sheet.  They  should  be  kept  smooth  and  unwrinkled,  a 
flat  board  placed  over  them,  weighted  heavily  and  allowed  to 
remain  thus  for  several  days. 

An  excellent  blanket  wash  may  be  made  according  to  the 
following  formula:  * 

1  large  cake  neutral  soap 
3  quarts  cold  water 

2  tablespoons  borax 
3/2  cup  wood  alcohol 

*  Laundering.   L.  Ray  Balderston. 


THE  LAUNDRY 


271 


In  using  the  above  wash,  the  soap  should  be  shaved  into 
the  cold  water,  and  heated  at  a  low  temperature  until  it  is  dis- 
solved. It  is  then  cooled  and  the  borax  added,  mixed  with  the 
alcohol.  The  mixture  should  be  poured  into  wide-mouthed 
jars,  and  kept  air-tight.  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  washing 
two  pairs  of  blankets. 

Sweaters  or  loosely  woven  or  knitted  garments  should  be 
washed  as  follows: 

1.  If  the  garment  is  silk,  wool  or  cotton,  follow  the  general  directions 
for  the  laundering  of  garments  made  of  these  fabrics.  A  woven  garment 
should  be  squeezed  with  the  hands  and  Hfted  up  and  down  in  the  water 
rather  than  rubbed  on  a  board. 

2.  Measure  the  length  and  width  of  the  different  parts  of  the  garment 
before  wetting  it.  For  example,  in  the  case  of  a  sweater,  measure  the 
length  of  the  front,  the  width  of  the  front,  the  length  of  the  back,  and  the 
width  of  the  back  in  several  places,  the  length  of  the  sleeve  along  the  seam, 
and  the  length  of  the  shoulder. 

3.  Spread  one  or  more  clean  sheets,  folded  several  times,  on  a  flat  surface 
such  as  a  table,  and  place  it  where  there  is  a  good  draft.  Outdoors  in 
the  sunshine  is  a  good  place,  if  the  garment  to  be  dried  is  not  too  dehcate 
in  color.  After  the  garment  has  been  rinsed,  place  it  with  the  back  next 
to  the  folded  sheet.  Bring  the  fronts  together,  and  place  the  sleeves  in  a 
nearly  outstretched  position. 

4.  After  the  garment  has  been  placed  as  suggested,  test  the  measure- 
ments with  those  taken  before  it  was  wet.  Stretch  it  until  it  gives  the 
correct  measurements.   If  necessary,  pin  it  into  place. 

5.  When  the  garment  is  practically  dry  on  the  side  exposed,  turn  it  and 
let  it  dry  on  the  other  side.  It  may  be  necessary  to  turn  the  sweater  several 
times. 

This  method  is  much  better  than  hanging  the  garment  on  a  coat-hanger 
after  washing,  because  the  size  may  be  kept  the  same  as  before  washing. 

Washing  silk. 

Silk  should  be  washed  in  much  the  same  way  as  wool.  While 
it  is  not  so  strongly  affected  by  soaps  and  alkahs  as  is  wool,  its 
gloss  is  destroyed  by  the  use  of  strong  cleansing  agents.  The 
delicacy  of  the  fiber  makes  hard  rubbing  impossible,  for  it 
breaks  the  fibers  and  destroys  not  only  their  durability  but 
also  their  silkiness.  In  wringing  silk,  it  should  be  placed  be- 
tween dry  towels  or  heavy  cloths  and  put  through  a  loosely  ad- 
justed wringer.    It  should  be  ironed  on  the  wrong  side  while 


272 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


still  damp,  with  a  moderately  hot  iron.  Silk  is  very  easily 
scorched  and,  if  the  iron  is  too  hot,  the  silk  will  be  stiff.  The 
iron  should  be  pushed  back  and  forth  with  a  wriggling  motion 
to  give  softness  and  pliability  to  the  silk.  It  is  often  best  to  iron 
silk  under  a  cloth;  to  do  so  gives  less  body  and  a  softer  finish. 

Ribbons,  if  of  good  quality,  may  be  very  successfully  washed. 
To  iron  them  they  should  be  covered  with  a  dry  cloth  and  the 
iron  moved  frequently  back  and  forth  over  the  surface  of  the 
cloth  above  them. 

Washing  laces. 

It  is  often  best  to  dry-clean  fine  laces,  as  they  thicken  slightly 
in  washing.  To  wash  them,  a  warm  neutral  soap-solution 
should  be  used  to  which  has  been  added  ammonia  or  borax. 
The  dirt  is  squeezed  out  by  pressing  the  lace  in  the  hands  but 
should  not  be  rubbed;  rubbing  breaks  the  delicate  threads.  A 
good  way  to  wash  fine  lace  is  to  baste  it  to  strips  of  cheese-cloth, 
being  careful  to  catch  down  all  its  points.  It  should  then  be 
put  to  soak  overnight  in  warm  soapy  water  containing  a  little 
borax  or  ammonia.  It  should  be  washed  by  squeezing,  then 
rinsed  free  of  soap.  Old  yellow  lace  may  be  bleached  by  stretch- 
ing it,  while  wet,  around  a  bottle,  and  standing  it  in  the  sun, 
rewetting  the  lace  occasionally.  Javelle  water  may  be  used  to 
bleach  lace.  Lace  may  be  stiffened  by  rinsing  in  a  mixture  of 
two  tablespoons  of  alcohol  to  one  cup  of  water;  by  rinsing  in 
borax  water,  two  tablespoons  to  a  cup ;  or  by  using  gum  arabic, 
one-eighth  teaspoon  to  a  cup  of  water.  If  a  yellow  color  is 
desired,  the  lace  may  be  dipped  in  coffee  or  tea. 

Black  lace  should  be  cleaned  by  squeezing  it  repeatedly  in  a 
mixture  of  one  cup  of  strong  coffee  and  one  tablespoon  of 
ammonia.  It  should  be  rinsed  in  gum  arabic  water  made  with 
coffee,  to  give  natural  stiffness. 

Lace  curtains  should  be  washed  with  as  near  an  approach  to 
the  care  given  to  lace  as  is  practicable.  They  should  be  clear- 
starched, stretched,  and  pinned  out  on  sheets,  one  curtain  over 
another.  If  available,  it  is  better  to  use  curtain-stretchers 
than  sheets,  but  if  care  is  taken  to  square  off  the  first  curtain 


THE  LAUNDRY 


273 


and  stretch  it  straight  and  even,  good  results  may  be  obtained 
by  pinning  the  curtains  to  sheets. 

BLEACHING 

Occasionally,  even  in  the  household,  it  may  be  necessary  to 
supplement  the  natural  bleaching  process  accomplished  by 
sunshine,  fresh  air,  and  green  grass,  by  the  use  of  chemicals. 
If  a  garment  has  yellowed  by  age  or  by  being  packed  away 
with  starch  in  it,  it  may  be  expedient  to  use  a  chemical  bleach. 

The  best  bleach  to  use  is  Javelle  water,  which  should  be  made 
as  follows : 

1  pound  washing-soda 

1  quart  boiling  water 

3^  pound  chloride  of  lime 

2  quarts  cold  water. 

Put  soda  in  granite  pan;  add  boiling  water  and  stir  until  dissolved;  let 
cool. 

Dissolve  chloride  of  lime  in  cold  water;  let  settle  and  pour  the  clear  liquid 
into  the  soda;  let  settle.  Pour  off  clear  liquid,  bottle,  and  put  away  in 
dark  place. 

Use,  mixed  with  equal  parts  or  more  of  water,  and  do  not  let  the  garments 
stay  in  over  3^  hour.  Rinse  thoroughly  in  several  waters  and  lastly  in  dilute 
ammonia  water. 

Moisture  is  necessary  if  clothes  are  to  be  bleached  by  the 
action  of  the  sun.  After  a  garment  dries,  it  should  be  made  wet 
again  and  hung  out.  It  may  be  necessary  to  repeat  the  wetting 
operation  a  number  of  times  before  the  yellow  tinge  yields.  It 
is  said  that  clothes  are  whitened  if  they  are  allowed  to  freeze 
out  of  doors  on  the  line.  The  reason  given  for  the  bleaching 
action  is  that  freezing  causes  the  clothes  to  retain  moisture, 
hence  the  time  of  their  bleaching  is  prolonged. 

IRONING 

For  ironing,  the  following  equipment  should  be  provided :  a 
flat,  firm,  unwarped  ironing-board  or  table,  tightly  covered  with 
a  blanket  and  clean  sheet,  securely  fastened  underneath;  clean 
irons;  an  iron  stand,  which  may  well  be  a  clean  brick;  two  pieces 
of  old  cloth  for  cleaning  irons;  a  piece  of  paper  folded  several 


274 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


times  for  testing  irons;  a  piece  of  beeswax  or  paraffin  tied  in  a 
cloth,  for  keeping  irons  smooth;  a  bowl  of  water  and  a  clean 
cloth  for  moistening  parts  dried  by  exposure  to  air.  A  large 
paper  should  be  spread  or  a  basket  placed  under  the  ironing- 
board  to  receive  the  clothes  while  they  are  being  ironed. 

For  ordinary  ironing  a  good  firm  surface  is  desirable.  A  thin 
woolen  blanket  and  an  outside  linen  cover  are  sufficient.  For 
embroideries  or  wool,  a  thick  covering  is  better,  because  the 
fabric  should  sink  into  a  soft  foundation  to  bring  out  the  pattern 
in  one  case  and  to  give  a  soft  finish  in  the  other. 

Method  and  order  of  ironing. 

The  following  simple  rules  for  ironing  may  be  followed : 

Iron  first  that  part  of  the  garment  which  will  be  least  mussed 
by  further  handling  or  in  which  a  little  wrinkling  will  not  seri- 
ously interfere  with  good  results. 

If  the  garment  is  trimmed,  iron  laces  and  embroideries  first, 
as  they  dry  out  quickly  because  of  their  porous  nature. 

Leave  as  much  of  a  garment  folded  as  possible,  to  keep  it 
moist.  Sometimes  it  may  be  convenient  to  lay  a  piece  of  damp- 
ened cheese-cloth  over  any  unironed  part  to  keep  it  moist. 
Figs.  52-55  give  some  of  the  methods  of  folding  various  garments. 

The  method  and  order  of  ironing  various  articles  is  some- 
what as  follows: 

Night  dresses:  Embroidery;  sleeves;  yoke;  body. 
Drawers:  Trimming;  tucks;  body;  band., 
Skirts:  Ruffle;  hem;  body. 

Shirt-waists:  Cuffs;  collar-band;  sleeves;  yoke;  back;  front. 

Silk  waists:  Iron  as  a  shirt  waist  on  the  wrong  side  while  it  is  still  damp. 

Embroideries:  Iron  on  wrong  side  on  a  soft  foundation,  to  allow  the 
design  to  stand  out. 

Laces:  Lay  on  a  piece  of  flannel  covered  with  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth. 
Iron  on  the  wrong  side,  and  pull-  out  points  with  the  tip  of  the  iron.  Lace 
should  be  stretched  and  pinned  out  on  a  hard  surface.  Pull  it  out  at 
each  point  and  catch  it  down  with  a  pin;  or  stretch  it  and  roll  it  on  a 
bottle. 

Tablecloths:  Use  heavy  irons,  iron  on  both  sides,  iron  partly  dry  on 
the  wrong  side  and  complete  the  process  on  the  right  side,  to  bring  out  the 
pattern.    Fold  the  selvages  together  first.    Fold  all  edges  evenly,  except 


THE  LAUNDRY 


275 


when  folding  the  lengthwise  folds  in  half.  Draw  the  upper  half  back  about 
3^  inch  in  making  the  last  fold,  or  that  part  will  be  pushed  out  of  place, 
giving  an  uneven  edge.  The  same  rule  applies  to  sheets,  napkins,  handker- 
chiefs, and  the  like.  Tablecloths  may  be  folded  lengthwise  twice  and 
then  rolled  to  avoid  creases. 

Napldns,  handkerchiefs,  and  towels:  Iron  and  fold  as  for  tablecloths. 

Sheets:  The  hems  of  sheets  must  be  smoothly  ironed.  It  is  a  good  plan 
to  iron  only  the  hems  when  time  is  a  consideration. 

Flannels:  Iron  after  laying  a  dampened  cheese-cloth  over  them.  If 


Fig.  52. — Methods  of  folding  underwear. 

they  are  not  covered  with  a  damp  cloth,  iron  them  on  the  wrong  side; 
have  the  iron  only  moderately  hot. 
Pillowcases:  Iron  smooth. 

Colored  garments :  Iron  on  the  wrong  side,  when  practicable,  as  to  do  so 
prevents  fading.    Do  not  have  irons  too  hot. 

Silk  garments:  Iron  on  the  wrong  side;  to  do  so  prevents  shininess. 

After  being  ironed,  each  article  should  be  hung  on  a  frame 
or  clotheshorse  to  dry  and  air  before  it  is  put  away.    If  hung 


276 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


in  a  poorly  ventilated  room,  the  clothes  will  have  a  bad  odor. 

Sprinkling  may  not  be  necessary  when  an  ironing-machine 
is  used  for  ironing,  if  the  operator  will  remove  the  clothes  from 
the  line  just  at  the  right  time,  that  is,  while  they  are  still  damp. 
The  process  can  be  carried  through  so  quickly  that  it  is  unneces- 
sary to  keep  one  garment  damp  while  the  other  is  being  ironed. 

EQUIPMENT  FOR  THE  LAUNDRY 

It  is  always  best,  when  possible,  to  have  a  separate  room  for 
laundry  purposes.    Much  of  the  apparatus  can  then  be  made 


Fig.  53. — A  method  of  folding  sheets  and  tablecloths. 


stationary  and  many  little  labor-saving  conveniences  devised. 
Some  dairy  farms  have  running  water,  drains,  power,  steam, 
and  cement  floors.  It  would  be  a  simple  matter  on  such  a  farm 
to  equip  a  small  room  in  the  barn  with  the  necessary  laundry 
apparatus.  Good  lighting  (page  201)  and  good  ventilation 
are  quite  as  necessary  in  the  laundry  as  in  other  parts  of  the 
house.  The  floor  and  walls  should  be  of  such  a  nature  that 
they  can  be  kept  dry  and  clean  with  the  least  labor.  Many 
of  the  suggestions  for  the  arrangement  of  kitchen  equipment 
(pages  104  to  109)  are  equally  applicable  to  the  laundry. 

Hand-driven  machines  are  effective  labor-savers  even  though 
to  a  somewhat  smaller  degree  than  those  run  by  other  power. 
Washing-machines  are  now  on  the  market  with  wringer  at- 
tached, which  run  by  power.  On  many  farms  the  gasoline  en- 
gine has  already  become  a  fixture  for  grinding  corn,  separating 


THE  LAUNDRY 


277 


milk,  and  the  like.  The  same  source  of  power  might  also  be 
used  to  run  the  washing-machine  and  turn  the  wringer.  If 
running  water  is  brought  to  the  barn,  it  should  be  continued  to 
the  house,  and,  if  the  water-power  is  sufficient,  a  water  motor 
may  be  purchased  that  can  be  used  for  running  the  washing- 
machine. 

WasMng-macMne. 

The  home  laundry  should  be  equipped  with  a  washing-ma- 
chine and  at  least  one  stationary  tub.  If  running  water  has  not 
yet  been  introduced  into  the 
house  and  the  barn,  at  least  it 
is  possible  to  provide  a  drain  for 
the  kitchen  sink  and  the  laundry 
tub.  This  makes  easier  the 
problem  of  getting  rid  of  dirty 
water. 

Washing-machines  in  C  1  U  d  e  Fig.  54.— Another  method  of  folding 

five  types:  (1)  The  Dolly  type, 

which  cleans  the  clothes  by  agitation,  (2)  the  friction  type, 
somewhat  like  double  washboards;  (3)  the  two-cyhnder  type, 
which  cleans  the  clothes  by  agitation;  (4)  the  suction  washers, 
including  the  simple  hand  machines;  (5)  the  cradle  type  which 
rocks  and  throws  the  clothes  from  side  to  side.  A  washing- 
machine  should  never  be  overloaded  if  it  is  to  do  good  work; 
and  the  process  should  not  be  unduly  hurried.  Clothes  should 
be  removed  carefully  from  the  machine  to  prevent  tearing. 
Cheese-cloth  or  net  bags  for  small  pieces  and  fine  materials  save 
trouble. 

Ironing-machine. 

The  ironing-machine,  or,  as  it  is  often  called,  the  mangle,  is 
another  device  for  making  laundry  work  easier.  It  may  suc- 
cessfully take  the  place  of  the  hand  iron  for  a  larger  part  of  the 
family  ironing.  There  are  two  types  of  ironing-machines  on  the 
market:  (1)  cold-roll  ironing-machines,  in  which  the  rollers  be- 
tween which  the  garment  passes  are  made  of  wood  and  are  un- 


278 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


heated,  depending  on  their  weight  and  pressure  to  remove 
wrinkles;  (2)  hot-roll  ironing-machines,  in  which  one  roll  is 
cold  and  is  covered  with  a  blanket  and  cloth,  just  as  for  an 
ironing-board,  and  the  other  roll  or  concave  plate  is  made  of 
smooth  iron  and  is  heated.  The  cold  roll  revolves  against  the 
heated  metal  plate.  This  is  the  more  economical  and  satisfac- 
tory ironing-machine,  although  its  original  cost  is  greater.  The 


Fig.  55. — A  method  of  folding  nightdresses  and  shirts. 

hot-roll  machine  may  be  heated  by  gas,  or  gasoline  by  a  slight 
change  involving  a  small  expense.  If  power  is  available,  the 
machine  may  be  run  by  power.  The  use  of  one  of  these  machines 
reduces  greatly  the  time  required  to  iron  in  the  usual  way. 
Garments  with  gathers  and  sleeves  cannot  be  thus  ironed  to 
look  perfectly  smooth  and  well  shaped,  but  all  bed  and  table 
linen,  towels,  handkerchiefs,  stockings,  such  underwear  as  may 
not  require  perfect  smoothness,  kitchen  aprons  and  the  like, 
may  be  done  successfully  and  satisfactorily. 

Irons, 

A  number  of  irons  are  now  on  the  market  for  summer  use 
when  it  is  not  desirable  to  have  sufficient  fire  in  the  range  to 


TEE  LAUNDRY 


279 


heat  the  irons.  Some  of  these  are  electric  irons,  gas  irons,  and 
denatured-alcohol  irons. 

For  general  laundry  purposes,  one  size  of  the  ordinary  sadiron 
is  sufficient,  but  it  is  advisable  to  put  several  irons  into  a  well- 
equipped  laundry,  to  use  for  the  various  kinds  of  work 
to  be  done.  Among  them  should  be  heav}^,  medium  heavy, 
and  small-pointed  irons,  the  last  for  ironing  ruffles  and 
laces. 

A  frequent  cause  of  poor  ironing  is  the  condition  of  the  irons. 
They  must  be  kept  clean  and  free  from  rust  to  do  good  w^ork. 
New  irons  should  be  heated  thorough^  and  rubbed  with  wax 
or  grease  before  using.  If  irons  are  to  be  put  away  for  any 
length  of  time,  they  should  be  covered  with  a  thin  coating  of 
vaseline,  clean  grease,  or  paraffin,  or  wrapped  in  w^axed  paper. 
If  starch  cooks  on,  it  should  be  removed  immediately  with  a 
dull  knife.  If  irons  become  dirty  from  careless  use,  or  from  being 
left  on  the  stove  during  the  preparation  of  the  meals,  they 
should  be  thoroughly  washed  with  soap  and  water  and  care- 
fully dried.  To  keep  irons  smooth  while  using  them,  the}^ 
should  be  rubbed  with  wax  or  paraffin  and  wiped  immediatel}- 
with  a  clean  cloth.  They  improve  with  wear,  if  they  have  good 
treatment. 

Tubs. 

Although  a  washing-machine  may  be  used,  there  should  be  one 
or  more  tubs  in  a  laundry.  Stationary  tubs  are  best,  even 
though  running  water  is  not  available,  for  some  simple  method 
of  draining  them  can  be  devised.  The  tubs  are  best  made  of 
porcelain,  enameled  iron,  or  alberine  stone.  White  tubs  are  a 
good  background  for  bluing  clothes.  Wooden  tubs  may  be 
more  cheaply  constructed;  but  there  is  danger  of  the  wooden 
tub  becoming  unsanitary  from  careless  handling. 

A  stationar^^  tub  should  always  be  set  with  regard  to  the 
height  of  the  person  who  is  to  use  it  most.  Many  tubs  are 
set  far  too  low  and  necessitate  too  much  back  bending  on  the 
part  of  the  operator. 

If  stationary  tubs  are  not  available,  fiber  tubs  are  the  best 


280 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


to  buy  for  the  laundry,  as  they  are  Hght  and  easy  to  care  for. 
Galvanized  iron  and  wooden  tubs  are  cheaper. 

Laundry  bench. 

The  laundry  bench  for  holding  tubs  should  be  of  the  proper 
height.  Most  benches  are  far  too  low,  involving  effort  out  of 
proportion  to  the  task  to  be  accomplished. 

Wringer. 

A  wringer  should  be  a  part  of  the  laundry  equipment,  and  the 
best  on  the  market  is  always  the  cheapest.  After  a  wringer  is 
used,  it  should  be  carefully  dried  and  the  screws  pressing  the  roll- 
ers should  be  loosened.    When  not  in  use,  it  should  be  kept  cov- 


FiG.  56, — A  sleeve-board. 

ered  with  a  cloth  to  protect  it  from  dust  and  dirt.  The  bearings 
should  be  oiled  occasionally.  Oil  dissolves  rubber,  and  that 
property  of  oil  is  ^ taken  advantage  of  in  cleaning  the  rubber 
rollers.  They  are  carefully  wiped  with  a  little  kerosene  which 
eats  away  a  thin  film  of  the  rubber,  exposing  a  fresh  surface. 
The  operation  should  not  be  performed  frequently,  however, 
and  the  oil  should  be  carefully  and  completely  removed  im- 
mediately after  its  use. 

Ironing 'hoard. 

An  ironing-board  that  has  its  broader  end  attached  by  hinges 
to  the  wall  is  a  great  convenience,  for  then  it  is  always  in  place 
and  can  be  put  out  of  the  way  by  folding  up  against  the  wall. 

Ironing -blanket. 

The  ironing-blanket  and  sheet  should  be  put  on  smoothly 
and  tacked  securely  under  the  board,  using  short  brass-headed 


THE  LAUNDRY 


281 


tacks.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  have  a  separate  blanket  and  sheet 
also,  which  fit  the  table  used  in  the  laundry,  because  a  table 
is  a  convenient  place  for  ironing  large  pieces.  The  ironing 
sheet  should  be  kept  clean. 

Sleeve-hoard. 

A  sleeve-board  (Fig.  56)  is  good  not  only  for  sleeves,  but 
for  gathers  and  for  small  dresses.  It  is  not  difficult  to  manu- 
facture at  home. 

Character  of  utensils. 

As  far  as  possible,  all  utensils  that  are  to  come  in  contact 
with  clothing  or  to  contain  material  to  be  used  on  the  clothing, 
should  be  non-rustable.  Tinware  is  not  good  for  laundry  use 
because  of  the  ease  with  which  it  rusts.  The  boiler  should 
have  a  copper  bottom  at  least,  and  is  best  made  entirely  of 
copper.  It  then  conducts  heat  better  and  does  not  rust. 

Other  equipment  and  supplies. 

The  miscellaneous  equipment  necessary  for  efficient  laundry 
work  is  given  in  the  following  list: 


Rubbing-board 
Wooden  spoon 
Dipper 

Dishpan,  enamel 
Tea  kettle 
Measuring  cup 
Quart  measure 
Iron  holder 
Teaspoon 
Clothes  basket 
Strainer  for  starch 
Beeswax  or  paraffin  wrapped  in 
cloths  to  keep  irons  smooth 


Clothes-pins 

References 
Balderston,  L.  Ray.  Laundering. 
Chambers,  Mary  D.   A  Guide  to  Laundry  Work. 


Laundry  bags 
Clothes  stick 

Pail,  enamel  or  fiber,  for  emptying 
water  and  carrying  clothes 

2  saucepans,  enamel,  one  for  starch 
and  one  for  soap  solution 

Iron  stand 

Tablespoon 

Case  knife 

Clothes-horse 

Scrubbing  brushes 

Clothes-pin  aprons,  best  made  of 
ticking 


CHAPTER  XIII 


STAIN  REMOVAL* 

With  some  stains  prompt  treatment  is  necessary  in  order  to 
save  the  article  in  question  from  being  ruined,  and  in  most  cases 
it  is  desirable,  since  all  stains  are  removed  more  easily  when 
fresh.  Changes  in  the  character  of  the  stain,  brought  about 
by  drying,  exposure  to  air,  washing,  ironing,  or  in  other  ways, 
often  make  it  necessary  to  use  chemicals  in  removing  old  stains, 
whereas  in  many  cases  much  simpler  methods  are  successful 
if  the  stains  are  treated  when  fresh. 

The  nature  of  a  stain  should  be  known,  if  possible,  before 
its  removal  is  attempted,  since  this  determines  the  treatment 
to  be  adopted.  Moreover,  if  an  unsuitable  stain-remover  is 
used,  the  stain  may  be  ^'set"  so  that  its  removal  becomes  dif- 
ficult or  even  impossible.  For  example,  if  hot  water,  which 
easily  removes  most  fresh  fruit  stains,  is  applied  to  stains  con- 
taining protein,  such  as  stains  of  milk,  blood,  eggs,  or  meat 
juice,  it  coagulates  the  albumin  in  the  fibers  of  the  cloth 
and  makes  it  extremely  difficult  to  remove.  Similarly,  soap, 
which  aids  in  the  removal  of  grease  spots,  sets  many  fruit 
stains. 

The  kind  of  fabric  upon  which  the  stain  occurs  also  should 
be  known.  The  method  of  treatment  adopted  depends  as  much 
on  the  nature,  color,  weave,  finish,  and  weight  of  the  fabric  as 
on  the  kind  of  stain.   Cotton  and  hnen  are  destroyed  by  strong 

*  This  chapter  contains  almost  the  whole  of  Farmers'  Bull.  861,  Removal 
of  Stains  from  Clothing;  and  Other  Textiles,  by  Harold  L.  Lang  and  Anna 
H.  Whittelsey  of  the  U.  8.  Dept.  of  Agr.  Since  this  ])ulletin  is  the  report 
of  the  most  extensive  and  careful  work  on  stain  removal  that  has  been 
done  for  the  benefit  of  housekeepers,  it  has  been  only  slightly  adapted  for 
reprinting  here. 

282 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


283 


acids  and  attacked  to  some  extent  even  by  weaker  ones.  Con- 
centrated acids,  therefore,  should  never  be  used  in  removing 
stains  from  these  fabrics,  and  when  dikite  acids  are  used  they 
should  be  neutrahzed  afterwards  with  a  suitable  alkali  or 
removed  by  thorough  rinsing;  otherwise  the  acid  may  become 
concentrated  on  drying  and  destroy  the  fibers.  Generally 
speaking,  alkalis  do  not  attack  cotton  or  linen  fabrics  to  the 
extent  that  acids  do.  However,  long-continued  or  repeated 
exposure  to  alkalis,  especially  in  hot  solution,  weakens  the  fi- 
bers. The  damage  to  fabrics  resulting  from  the  careless  use  of 
strongly  alkaline  soaps,  washing  powders,  washing-soda,  or 
lye,  is  well  known  to  the  housekeeper. 

Wool  and  silk,  being  more  delicate  than  cotton  and  linen,  re- 
quire more  careful  treatment.  The  use  of  very  hot  water  must 
be  avoided,  since  it  turns  both  wool  and  silk  yellow,  shrinks 
wool,  and  weakens  silk  and  injures  its  finish.  These  materials 
also  will  not  stand  much  rubbing,  as  this  felts  together  the 
wool  fibers  and  results  in  a  shrinking  or  thickening  of  the  ma- 
terial, while  the  silk  fabrics,  as  a  rule,  are  too  delicate  to  stand 
much  rubbing  without  breaking  or  separating  the  fibers.  Both 
wool  and  silk  are  dissolved  by  strong  alkalis  and  are  injured 
even  by  washing-soda  or  strongly  alkaline  soap.  The  only 
alkalis  which  should  be  used  in  laundering  or  removing  stains 
from  wool  and  silk  are  the  milder  ones  like  borax  or  dilute  solu- 
tions of  ammonia.  Acids,  with  the  exception  of  nitric  which 
weakens  and  turns  the  fibers  yellow,  do  not  attack  wool  and 
silk  readily. 

In  general  it  is  more  difficult  to  remove  stains  from  wool  and 
silk  than  from  cotton  or  linen.  In  removing  stains  from  ma- 
terials made  from  two  or  more  kinds  of  fibers,  such  as  silk  and 
cotton  mixtures,  the  effects  of  the  stain-removers  on  all  of  the 
fibers  should  be  considered.  No  chemical  should  be  used  which 
would  injure  the  most  delicate  of  the  fibers  present. 

It  is  also  much  more  difficult  to  remove  stains  from  colored 
than  from  white  materials,  for  the  reason  that  most  of  the 
bleaching  agents  which  must  be  used  to  remove  persistent  stains 
are  likely  to  destroy  the  color  of  the  material  as  well. 


284 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


METHODS  FOR  TREATMENT  OF  STAINS  IN  GENERAL 

The  following  paragraphs  deal  with  methods  and  reagents 
commonly  used  in  the  removal  of  a  number  of  stains.  To  save 
repetition,  these  are  given  here  in  detail  and  reference  is  made 
to  them  in  dealing  with  the  particular  stains  in  later  pages. 

Laundering. 

Ordinary  laundering,  mentioned  frequently  as  a  method  for 
removing  stains,  should  be  done  as  follows:  First,  soak  the 
stained  portion  in  cold  or  lukewarm  water,  rubbing  the  stain 
with  a  neutral  soap  if  necessary.  Follow  this  by  thorough 
rinsing  in  clean  water,  after  which  the  article  may  be  laundered 
as  usual.  This  method  should  be  used  only  for  cotton  and  linen 
(white  or  fast  colors)  and  the  so-called  wash  silks  and  washable 
woolens.  If  the  materials  are  delicate,  they  should  be  sponged 
according  to  the  following  directions. 

Sponging. 

Sponging  is  applicable  to  all  fabrics,  but  especially  to  deli- 
cate materials  or  colors  which  ordinary  laundering  might  in- 
jure. The  stained  article  should  be  spread  on  a  flat  surface  in 
a  good  light,  and  beneath  the  stain  a  cloth  folded  into  several 
thicknesses  or  clean  white  blotting  paper  should  be  placed  to 
absorb  the  superfluous  liquid.  The  pad  must  be  changed  for  a 
fresh  one  as  soon  as  it  becomes  soiled.  The  sponging  should  be 
done  with  a  clean,  soft  lintless  cloth  (preferably  of  the  same 
material  as  that  stained)  and  renewed  as  frequently  as  may  be 
necessary.  The  stained  material  should  be  laid  with  the  wrong 
side  up  and  the  water  applied  to  the  back,  so  that  the  foreign 
substances  can  be  washed  from  the  fibers  onto  the  pad  without 
having  to  pass  through  the  material. 

Application  of  chemicals. 

Chemicals  should  not  be  used  until  water  or  laundering  has 
been  tried,  for  they  attack  the  fibers  of  the  cloth  as  well  as  the 
stain. 

There  are  a  few  common  chemicals  which  are  necessary  in 
removing  some  stains,  and  these  should  be  kept  in  every  house- 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


285 


hold.  A  good  plan  is  to  have  a  small  cupboard  in  the  laundry 
where  these  chemicals  may  be  kept  together  with  the  utensils 
used  in  applying  them.  As  some  of  these  chemicals  are  poison- 
ous, they  should  not  be  kept  in  the  family  medicine  cabinet  or 
pantry.  Chemicals  most  commonly  used  in  removing  stains 
are  Javelle  water  (p.  273),  potassium  permanganate  (solu- 
tion), oxalic  acid,  ammonia  water,  hydrogen  peroxide,  French 
chalk,  and  cream  of  tartar.  These  chemicals  may  be  bought 
at  any  drug  store. 

With  these  chemicals  should  be  kept  some  of  the  utensils 
used  in  applying  them;  such  as  a  medium-sized  bowl,  a  med- 
icine-dropper, a  glass  rod  with  rounded  ends,  several  pads  of 
cheese-cloth  or  old  muslin,  and  a  small  sponge. 

If  the  effect  of  the  stain-remover  on  the  fiber  or  color  is  not 
known,  it  should  be  tried  by  applying  a  little  to  a  sample  or 
to  an  unexposed  portion  of  the  goods.  Sometimes  it  is  best 
to  remove  the  stain  even  if  some  of  the  color  is  removed  also, 
for  the  color  often  may  be  restored  by  careful  tinting. 

One  should  work  rapidly  when  using  chemicals  to  remove 
stains,  so  as  to  give  them  as  little  time  as  possible  to  act  on 
the  textile  fibers.  Many  brief  applications  of  the  chemicals, 
with  rinsing  or  neutralization  after  each  application,  are  pref- 
erable to  the  practice  of  allowing  them  to  remain  on  the  stain 
for  a  long  time.  The  stained  portion  of  the  garment  should  be 
stretched  over  a  bowl  of  clean  water  and  the  chemical  applied 
with  a  medicine-dropper.  The  chemicals  may  be  rinsed  out 
quickly  by  dipping  in  the  clean  water.  Another  method  is 
to  place  the  stained  portion  over  a  pad  of  folded  cloth  and  ap- 
ply the  chemical  with  a  glass  rod.  The  rinsing  or  neutralizing 
always  must  be  thorough. 

Javelle  water  may  be  used  successfully  in  removing  a  num- 
ber of  stains,  but  should  be  applied  only  to  uncolored  cotton 
or  linen  materials,  since  it  bleaches  colors  and  rots  silk  or  wool. 
In  treating  stains  with  Javelle  water,  the  stained  portion  should 
be  stretched  over  a  bowl  filled  with  water  and  the  Javelle  water 
applied  to  the  stain  with  a  medicine-dropper.  The  Javelle  water 
should  not  be  allowed  to  remain  in  contact  with  the  stain  for 


286 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


more  than  one  minute  and  then  oxahc-acid  solution  should  be 
applied  to  neutralize  the  Javelle  water  and  the  stain  rinsed  by 
dipping  in  the  bowl  of  water. 

Commercial  ink-removers  are  similar  in  action  to  Javelle 
water  and  are  very  convenient  for  removing  many  stains  be- 
sides ink  spots. 

Potassium  permanganate  can  be  used  in  removing  stains 
from  all  white  fabrics.  It  also  may  be  used  successfully  upon 
many  colored  materials,  but  should  always  be  tried  first  on 
an  unexposed  portion  of  the  goods,  to  determine  its  effect  on 
the  dye.  It  does  not  harm  delicate  fibers,  provided  it  is  used 
with  reasonable  care.  One  should  first  remove  as  much  of  the 
stain  as  possible  by  sponging  or  washing  with  cold  water.  The 
permanganate  should  be  prepared  and  used  as  follows:  Dis- 
solve 1  teaspoonful  of  the  crystals  in  a  pint  of  water  and  apply 
a  little  of  this  to  the  stain  with  a  medicine-dropper,  a  glass  rod, 
or  a  clean  cork,  and  allow  it  to  remain  for  about  five  minutes. 
Remove  any  pink  or  brown  stain  left  by  the*  permanganate, 
by  applying  one  of  the  following  chemicals:  1.  Hydrogen  per- 
oxide, made  slightly  a'cid  (if  not  already  so)  with  oxalic  acid. 
One  drop  of  the  acid  usually  is  enough  to  acidify  3  teaspoons 
of  the  peroxide.  2.  Oxalic  acid  in  saturated  solution  or  lemon 
juice  for  cotton,  linen,  or  silk.  Hydrogen  peroxide  is  more  sat- 
isfactory for  wool.  The  treatment  should  be  followed  by  thor- 
ough rinsing.  One  or  more  repetitions  of  this  treatment  may 
be  necessary  in  the  case  of  persistent  stains. 

Oxalic  acid  is  poisonous  and  should  be  used  carefully;  the 
bottle  in  which  it  is  kept  must  be  marked  Poison  and  kept 
out  of  the  reach  of  children.  To  prepare  a  solution  of  oxalic 
acid  for  use,  as  many  of  the  crystals  of  the  acid  as  possible 
should  be  dissolved  in  a  pint  of  lukewarm  water.  This  should 
be  put  into  a  bottle,  stoppered  tightly,  and  used  as  needed.  This 
solution  may  be  applied  to  the  stain  with  a  medicine-dropper 
or  glass  rod  and  after  allowing  it  to  remain  for  a  few  minutes 
the  garment  should  be  rinsed  thoroughly  in  clean  water. 

Hydrogen  peroxide,  as  obtained  for  medicinal  purposes,  usu- 
ally is  made  slightly  acid,  to  give  it  better  keeping  quality. 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


287 


For  use  in  removing  stains  a  small  amount  of  the  peroxide  should 
be  made  slightly  alkaline  with  ammonia.  Since  hydrogen  per- 
oxide affects  the  fiber  also,  in  the  case  of  cotton  and  linen  ma- 
terials, it  must  be  followed  by  very  careful  rinsing.  It  may  be 
applied  to  the  stain  with  a  medicine-dropper,  a  glass  rod,  or 
a  clean  cork,  or  the  stain  sponged  with  it.  The  method  of 
using  it  in  neutralizing  potassium  permanganate  is  described 
above. 

SPECIFIC  METHODS  FOR  INDIVIDUAL  STAINS 

In  cases  in  which  the  nature  of  the  stain  is  not  known,  it 
should  be  attacked  first  by  sponging  with  cold  water,  provided, 
however,  that  the  fabric  would  not  be  injured  by  water.  If  the 
stain  is  not  removed  by  cold  or  warm  water,  chemicals  should 
then  be  applied.  Often  the  behavior  of  a  stain,  when  treated 
with  cold  water,  will  give  some  indication  of  its  nature;  for 
example,  a  grease  spot  will  not  absorb  water.  Hot  water  should 
be  avoided  in  treating  unknown  stains  until  after  other  sub- 
stances have  been  tried,  since  hot  water  will  set  many  stains 
and  make  their  removal  more  difficult. 

Acids. 

With  the  exception  of  nitric  acid,  acids  do  not  generally  produce  stains 
upon  white  fabrics  but  often  change  or  destroy  the  color  of  dyed  materials. 
However,  cotton  and  linen  fibers  are  destroyed  readily  by  some  acids, 
especially  by  those  of  greater  concentration  or  strength.  Dilute  acids 
do  not  attack  wool  and  silk  fibers  to  any  great  extent  unless  they  are 
allowed  to  dry  on  the  cloth  and  become  concentrated,  but  they  do  some- 
times affect  the  color  of  the  fibers.  It  is  essential,  therefore,  that  acid 
spots  on  textiles  be  neutralized  at  once  by  some  alkaline  solution.  For 
this  purpose  any  one  of  the  following  should  give  good  results: 

1.  Water.  Rinse  the  spot  several  times  in  a  large  volume  of  water. 
This  treatment  serves  to  stop  any  further  action  of  the  acid  on  the  fabric, 
but  usually  has  no  effect  on  any  discoloration  due  to  the  acid. 

2.  An  alkaline  substance,  such  as  washing-soda,  ammonia,  or  borax. 
Apply  an  alkali  to  the  acid  spot.  The  alkali  forms  a  salt  with  the  acid 
and  this  must  be  removed  later  by  rinsing  or  sponging  with  water.  The 
acid  should  be  neutralized  completely  with  the  alkali  or  the  discoloration 
may  reappear  after  a  while.  Either  of  the  following  alkalis  may  be  used: 
(a)  Ammonia.  If  the  spot  is  slight,  neutralize  it  by  holding  it  in  the  fumes 
from  an  open  bottle  of  strong  ammonia.  (6)  Sodium  l)icarbonate  (V)aking 
soda).    Sprinkle  this  on  the  stain — on  both  sides,  if  possible — moisten 


288 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


with  water,  and  allow  to  stand  until  the  acid  is  neutralized  (shown  in 
this  case  by  the  ceasing  of  the  effervescence);  and  remove  the  excess  by 
rinsing  with  water. 

Alkalis. 

Dilute  alkalis  have  little  effect  on  cotton  and  linen,  but  strong  alkalis 
cause  the  fibers  to  swell  and  become  yellow,  and  the  cloth  to  contract. 
The  fiber,  however,  is  not  weakened  unless  the  alkali  is  allowed  to  remain 
a  long  time  upon  the  cloth  or  to  become  very  concentrated  through  evap- 
oration. Wool  and  silk,  on  the  other  hand,  are  yellowed  or  destroyed  by 
strong  alkalis  even  in  dilute  solutions.  Even  if  the  fiber  is  not  affected 
by  the  alkali,  the  color  may  be  changed  or  destroyed.  It  is  important, 
therefore,  to  neutralize  alkali  spots  at  once.  Any  of  the  following  agents 
may  be  used: 

1.  Water.  Rinse  thoroughly.  Frequently  this  is  sufficient  in  the  case 
of  such  alkalis  as  washing-soda  and  ammonia. 

2.  A  mild  acid.  Apply  the  acid  with  a  cloth  until  the  fabric  changes 
back  to  its  original  color,  or  until  the  stain  is  slightly  acid  as  shown  by 
the  odor  or  sour  taste.  Then  rinse  the  fabric  thoroughly  in  water.  In 
the  case  of  colored  goods  it  is  helpful  to  rub  the  stain  dry,  using  a  piece 
of  the  same  material  as  the  stained  fabric,  if  possible.  Use  either  of  the 
following  mild  acids: 

(a)  Lemon  juice.  Squeeze  the  juice  on  the  stain.  As  long  as  the  spot 
remains  alkaline  the  juice  is  a  bright  yellow  in  color,  but  when  the  spot 
becomes  acid  the  color  disappears  almost  entirely.  Apply  the  lemon  juice 
until  this  color  change  takes  place. 

(6)  Vinegar.  If  the  vinegar  itself  leaves  a  spot,  remove  it  by  sponging 
with  water. 

Blood. 

Any  of  the  following  agents  may  be  used: 

1.  Cold  or  lukewarm  water.  Either  soak  the  blood  stains  or  rub  them 
in  the  water  until  they  turn  light  brown  in  color;  that  is,  until  most  of  the 
coloring  matter  is  dissolved.  Then  wash  the  material  in  hot  water,  as 
in  the  ordinary  process  of  laundering.  For  stains  on  silk  or  wool,  sponge  in 
cold  or  lukewarm  water. 

2.  Soap  (for  washable  materials).  Rub  the  stained  portions  with  soap 
and  place  in  cold  water,  either  allowing  them  to  stand  in  it  until  the  stains 
are  loosened  or  bringing  the  water  very  slowly  to  the  boiling  point. 

3.  Ammonia  (for  washable  materials).  Use  about  1  ounce  (2  tablespoon- 
fuls)  of  household  ammonia  to  1  gallon  of  water.  Soak  the  stains  in  this 
until  they  are  loosened  and  then  wash  in  the  usual  manner.  For  old 
stains  ammonia  is  somewhat  more  satisfactory  than  soap. 

4.  Hydrogen  peroxide.  Sponging  with  a  little  hydrogen  peroxide  often 
will  remove  the  last  traces  of  blood  stains  after  the  main  part  has  been 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


289 


removed  as  described  in  No.  1  above.  This  agent  can  be  used  on  wool 
and  silk,  provided  it  does  not  injure  the  color  of  the  material. 

5.  Raw  starch  mixed  with  cold  water  to  a  paste  is  efficient  for  stains  on 
thick  materials,  such  as  flannel  and  blankets,  which  cannot  conveniently 
be  soaked  in  v/ater.  Apply  the  paste  thickly  to  the  stain  and  brush  it 
away  when  it  becomes  dry.  Repeat  the  application  until  the  stain  is 
removed. 

Bluing. 

Three  types  of  laundry  bluing  are  in  common  use,  namely,  ultramarine, 
Prussian,  and  aniline  blues.  Since  they  differ  chemically,  spots  due  to  them 
require  different  treatment.  It  is  not  difficult  to  determine  to  which  type 
a  blue  belongs,  and  methods  for  doing  this  are  suggested  in  the  following 
paragraphs : 

The  commercial  blues  which  come  in  balls  or  blocks  with  directions  to 
wrap  them  in  a  piece  of  flannel  or  other  cloth  and  shake  them  about  in 
the  water  to  be  blued  are  generally  ultramarine.  To  remove  such  stains, 
the  following  procedure  may  be  followed: 

1.  Cold  water.  Soak  fresh  stains  or  rinse  them  in  an  abundance  of 
cold  water. 

2.  Soap  and  water.  Wash  the  stains  as  in  ordinary  laundering,  with 
an  abundance  of  soap,  and  rub  thoroughly.  This  treatment  will  remove 
stains  which  are  not  removed  by  soaking. 

Liquid  bluing,  which  is  used  commonly  in  the  home  laundry,  usually  is 
a  Prussian  blue.  It  is  greenish-blue  in  color  and  soluble  in  water.  Clothes 
are  occasionally  overblued  with  Prussian,  as  with  other  bluings,  or  may 
become  streaked  with  the  bluing  if  it  has  not  been  mixed  evenly  with  the 
water.  To  overcome  this  condition  the  following  treatment  is  recom- 
mended : 

1.  Cold  water.  Rinse  the  stains  in  an  abundance  of  cold  water.  This 
is  effective  only  for  Yerj  fresh  stains. 

2.  Boihng  water.  Boil  the  stained  material  for  about  half  an  hour, 
or  until  the  stains  disappear. 

Prussian  blue  is  sometimes  the  cause  of  yellow  discolorations  or  spots 
upon  white  clothes.  If  the  clothes  are  not  rinsed  free  from  strong  soap, 
washing-soda,  or  other  alkali  used  in  washing,  before  they  are  blued  with 
Prussian  blue,  the  alkali  remaining  on  the  clothes  precipitates  ferric  hy- 
droxide from  the  bluing  which  is  deposited  upon  the  clothes.  This  is  set 
by  subsequent  drying  and  ironing,  and  is  identical,  chemically,  with  iron- 
rust.  For  methods  of  removing  these  stains,  see  iron  rust "  stains, 
page  297. 

The  aniline  or  coal-tar  blues  probably  are  used  less  commonly  in  the 
household  than  the  other  blues,  but  are  employed  frequently  in  commercial 
laundries.  They  are  sold  usually  in  the  form  of  small  crystals  or  of  a 
powder  having  a  dark  blue  or  iridescent  color  and  are  soluble  in  water. 
To  remove  aniline  blues,  one  of  the  following  methods  should  be  used: 


290  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


1.  Cold  water.   Soak  the  stained  material  for  several  hours  or  overnight. 

2.  Boiling  water.   Boil  the  stains  for  15  minutes  or  until  they  disappear. 

Butter. 

Stains  due  to  butter  are  essentially  grease  spots  and  should  receive  the 
same  treatment. 

Candle  wax  (colored). 

These  stains  consist  of  paraffin  in  which  an  organic  dye  is  dissolved. 
Remove  the  paraffin  as  completely  as  possible  (page  300),  and  then  dissolve 
the  coloring  matter  remaining  in  the  fiber  by  sponging  it  with  alcohol. 
If  a  slight  grease  spot  still  remains,  remove  it  by  sponging  with  soap  and 
water. 

Chocolate  and  cocoa. 

For  removing  chocolate  and  cocoa  stains  the  following  agents  are  satis- 
factory : 

1.  Soap  and  hot  water  (ordinary  laundering;  see  page  284). 

2.  Borax  and  cold  water.  Sprinkle  the  stains  with  borax  and  soak 
them  in  cold  water,  then  rinse  them  thoroughly  in  boiling  water.  This 
method  is  applicable  only  to  stains  on  washable  materials. 

3.  Lukewarm  water.  For  stains  on  delicate  fabrics,  sponge  with  luke- 
warm water. 

Coffee. 

Cream  in  the  coffee  sometimes  necessitates  the  use  of  grease  solvents  in 
addition  to  other  reagents. 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  employed : 

1.  Soap  and  water.  Fresh  stains  and  most  old  ones  on  washable  ma- 
terials can  be  removed  by  ordinary  laundering.  A  slight  trace  of  the 
stain  sometimes  remains  in  the  case  of  very  heavy  or  old  stains.  Drying 
the  material  in  the  sun  frequently  helps  to  remove  the  last  traces. 

2.  Potassium  permanganate.  Slight  stains  remaining  after  treatment 
with  soap  and  water  can  be  removed  with  this  agent. 

3.  Boiling  water,  poured  on  the  stain  from  a  height  of  2  or  3  feet.  This 
is  effective  on  stains  which  are  not  more  than  a  few  hours  old. 

4.  Cold  or  lukewarm  water.  Sponge  the  stains  from  wool  or  silk  ma- 
terials. If  a  grease  spot  from  cream  remains  after  the  spot  has  dried, 
remove  it  by  the  use  of  grease  solvents. 

5.  Damp  cloths  and  a  hot  iron.  Fairly  good  results  are  obtained  in 
removing  small  coffee  stains  from  light-colored  silk  material  by  placing 
the  stain  between  clean,  damp  cloths  and  pressing  the  whole  with  a  hot 
iron. 

Dye  and  running  colors. 

As  the  dyes  of  textiles  differ  greatly  in  chemical  composition,  different 
methods  must  be  tried,  beginning  with  the  simplest,  until  the  stains 
disappear.   For  washable  materials,  No.  1  may  be  tried. 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


291 


1.  Cold  or  warm  water  and  sunlight,  for  stains  on  washable  materials. 
Rinse  the  stains  in  water,  or  soak  them  (for  10  or  12  hours,  if  necessary), 
and  then  dry  them  in  the  sun.  Repeat  the  treatment  if  the  stains  are  not 
removed  entirely  by  the  first  treatment.  Spots  on  woolen  and  silk  ma- 
terials sometimes  may  be  removed  by  soaking  or  washing  in  cold  water. 

2.  Javelle  water. 

3.  Potassium  permanganate. 

4.  Hydrogen  peroxide  made  slightly  alkaline  mth  ammonia,  for  stains 
on  white  silk  or  wool.  Soak  the  stains  in  this  solution  until  they  disappear, 
and  then  rinse  thoroughly. 

.  Egg. 

Egg  stains  should  be  washed  or  sponged  with  cold  or  lukewarm  water 
before  any  hot  water  is  applied.  Sometimes  a  large  part  of  the  stain 
hardens  on  the  surface  of  the  material  and  may  be  scraped  off  with  a  blunt 
knife. 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  used  to  remove  egg  stains: 

1.  Cold  water  followed  by  hot  water  and  soap,  as  in  ordinary  laun- 
dering. 

2.  Cold  water  followed  by  a  grease  solvent.  Allow  the  stained  place  to 
dry  after  being  sponged  with  cold  water.  Then  apply  the  grease  solvent 
(pages  292  to  293). 

Fly  paper  {sticky). 

See  ^'resinous  substances,"  page  301.  Turpentine  and  kerosene  are 
especially  effective. 

Fruits  and  berries  (fresh). 

Practically  all  fruit  stains,  when  they  are  fresh  and  still  moist,  can  be 
removed  with  boiling  or  even  warm  water.  After  they  have  dried,  they 
become  much  more  difficult  to  remove.  The  color  of  some  materials  may 
be  affected  by  the  organic  acids  present  in  certain  fruits  like  the  grapefruit 
and  lemon.  In  such  cases  the  color  can  generally  be  restored  by  the  methods 
used  for  acid  stains. 

The  following  agents  are  satisfactory  for  fruit  or  berry  stains: 

1.  Boiling  water,  for  white  or  fast-colored  washable  materials.  Stretch 
the  stained  material  over  a  bowl  or  other  vessel,  holding  it  by  a  string  or 
an  elastic  band,  if  necessary,  and  pour  boiling  water  upon  it  from  a  tea- 
kettle held  at  a  height  of  3  or  4  feet  so  that  the  water  strikes  the  stain  with 
some  force.  With  some  stains,  especially  those  in  which  fruit  pulp  was 
present,  a  little  rubbing  alternated  with  applications  of  boiling  water  is 
helpful.  A  stain  remaining  after  this  treatment  frequently  can  1)0  bleached 
by  hanging  the  wet  material  in  the  sun  to  dry. 

2.  Warm  water,  for  silk,  wool,  and  other  delicate  materials.  Sponge  the 
stains. 

3.  Lemon  juice  and  sunlight.    Stains  remaining  after  treatment  with 


292  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


boiling  water  can  often  be  bleached  by  moistening  with  lemon  juice  and 
exposing  to  the  bright  sunlight. 

4.  Lemon  juice  or  oxalic  acid.  A  stain  which  turns  blue  or  gray  and 
cannot  be  removed  readily  by  boiling  water  sometimes  can  be  loosened 
by  moistening  with  a  little  acid,  which  restores  its  original  color  and  renders 
it  more  easily  soluble  in  the  boiling  water.  If  necessary,  apply  the  acid 
several  times,  alternating  with  boiling  water. 

5.  Potassium  permanganate  (p.  286).  Treat  the  stains  first  with  boiling 
water  (see  No.  1). 

6.  Javelle  water  (p.  285). 

7.  Hydrogen  peroxide  made  slightly  alkaline  with  ammonia.  Stains  re- 
maining on  silk  or  wool  (white  or  fast  color)  after  sponging  with  warm 
water  frequently  can  be  removed  with  a  little  hydrogen  peroxide. 

8.  Warm  water  as  in  No.  2,  followed  by  alcohol.  Sponge  the  spots 
(p.  284). 

Fruits  and  berries  (cooked). 

In  many  cases  changes  in  cooking  render  the  stains  from  cooked  fruit 
much  easier  to  remove  than  those  of  fresh  fruit.  In  fact,  they  often  are 
removed  from  a  fabric  by  ordinary  laundering.  Stains  from  some  cooked 
fruits,  however,  especially  the  dark  red  and  purple  fruits  and  berries,  such 
as  cranberries  and  black  raspberries,  are  similar  to  the  fresh  fruit  stains 
in  being  set  by  alkaline  substances. 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  employed: 

1.  Boiling  water  (see  No.  1,  under  ''fresh  fruit  stains")- 

2.  Warm  water.   Sponge  delicate  fabrics. 

3.  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering).  This  does  not  apply  to  the 
dark-colored  (red  or  purple)  fruits  and  berries.  Treat  them  in  the  same 
way  as  fresh  fruit. 

Glue. 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  used  in  removing  glue  spots: 

1.  Water.  Either  soak  the  spot  in  warm  water  or,  if  small,  sponge  it. 
Occasionally  it  is  necessary  to  boil  the  stained  material. 

2.  Vinegar.   Sponge  the  spot  or  soak  it  in  vinegar. 

Grass  and  other  fresh  green  foliage. 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  used  in  removing  stains  of  this 
character: 

1.  Hot  water  and  soap,  as  in  ordinary  laundering.  Remove  the  stain 
mechanically,  by  thorough  rubbing. 

2.  Grain  or  wood  alcohol.  Apply  by  sponging.  This  is  especially  useful 
upon  materials  which  laundering  might  injure. 

Grease. 

Sometimes  it  is  possible  to  scrape  or  wipe  much  of  the  adhering  grease 
from  a  stained  material. 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


293 


One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  used  in  removing  grease  spots: 

1 .  Warm  water  and  soap,  as  in  ordinary  laundering.  Grease  spots  usually 
can  be  removed  from  washable  materials  in  this  way,  provided  care  is 
taken  to  rub  the  particular  spot  thoroughly.  Soaps  containing  naphtha 
or  kerosene  are  efficient. 

2.  Absorbent  substances — blotting  paper,  fuller's  earth,  brown  paper, 
French  chalk,  powdered  magnesia,  or  white  talcum  powder,  for  fine  ma- 
terials; cornmeal  or  salt,  for  carpets,  rugs,  and  other  coarse  materials. 
The  use  of  absorbents  generally  is  effective  only  on  spots  of  grease  or  oil 
unmixed  with  particles  of  dirt  or  metal.  The  advantages  of  using  them 
are  that  the  fabric  is  not  wet  and  there  is  no  danger  of  leaving  a  ring,  as 
in  the  case  of  grease  solvents.  In  using  an  absorbent,  such  as  a  clean  blotter 
or  a  piece  of  unglazed  brown  paper,  lay  it  on  each  side  of  the  stain  and 
apply  a  warm  iron.  The  grease  is  melted  and  is  absorbed  by  the  paper. 
To  use  the  absorbent  powders,  lay  the  stained  fabric  upon  a  flat  surface 
and  spread  a  layer  of  the  absorbent  over  the  stain  and  work  it  around 
gently  so  as  not  to  pull  the  fibers.  As  soon  as  it  becomes  gummy,  shake 
or  brush  it  off  and  repeat  the  process  until  the  bulk  of  the  stain  is  removed. 
Then  apply  another  layer  of  the  absorbent  and  allow  it  to  remain  over- 
night, or  longer  if  necessary.  This  removes  all  traces  of  the  stain,  and 
in  the  case  of  slight  stains  the  preliminary  treatment  is  unnecessary.  Then 
dust  or  brush  off  the  absorbent  thoroughly.  If  it  is  not  convenient  to  let 
the  stain  stand  overnight,  place  a  layer  of  cloth  or  brown  paper  over  the 
absorbent  and  apply  a  warm  (not  hot)  iron  for  several  minutes.  In  the 
case  of  stains  made  by  solid  fats,  which  must  be  melted  before  they  can  be 
absorbed,  the  use  of  the  warm  iron  is  necessary. 

3.  Organic  solvents.  Chloroform,  ether,  and  gasoline  or  naphtha.  The 
first  is  the  safest  to  use,  since  it  is  not  inflammable.  It  is  a  better  solvent 
of  tarry  substances  than  is  ether  or  gasoline,  and  therefore  more  satisfactory 
for  general  use.  Gasoline  and  naphtha  are  obtained  easily  and  are  com- 
paratively inexpensive,  but  they  are  very  inflammable  and  likely  to  con- 
tain impurities  and  to  leave  an  odor  in  the  cleaned  fabric.  Ether  is  ex- 
pensive and  inflammable,  but  it  is  clean,  and  usually  it  leaves  no  odor. 
The  greatest  care  should  be  taken  in  using  inflammable  solvents.  It  is 
best  to  use  them  in  a  shady  place  out  of  doors,  and  if  in  the  house  by  an 
open  window  and  away  from  all  flames.  Place  a  pad  of  clean  cloth  or  a 
white  blotter  beneath  the  stain  and  change  it  as  soon  as  it  becomes  soiled. 
Sponge  the  stain  with  a  clean  cloth,  preferably  a  piece  like  the  stained 
material,  moistened  with  the  solvent.  To  prevent  the  spreading  of  the 
grease  and  solvent,  it  is  best  to  use  small  amounts  of  the  solvent  at  a  time 
and  to  work  from  the  outside  of  the  spot  toward  the  center.  It  is  well  also 
to  surround  the  stain  with  a  ring  of  French  chalk  or  any  of  the  absorbents 
mentioned  in  No.  2,  and  to  rub  the  stain  with  a  clean  cloth  until  it  is 
thoroughly  dry. 

In  removing  grease  spots  which  contain  dirt  or  fine  particles  of  metal, 


294 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


more  rubbing  and  a  freer  use  of  the  solvent  are  ne(;t\s.sary.  It  is  best  to 
apply  the  solvent  from  the  wrong  side  of  the  material,  so  that  the  particlos 
will  be  washed  mechanically  from  the  fibers  onto  the  pad  of  cloth  placed 
underneath.  If  the  spot  does  not  yield  to  this  treatment,  immerse  it  in 
a  small  bowl  of  the  solvent  and  brush  it  gently  with  a  small,  soft  brush. 
The  brushing  serves  to  loosen  the  insoluble  particles,  which  then  fall  to 
the  bottom  of  the  bowl. 

In  general,  when  the  stained  place  must  be  dipped  in  the  solvent,  it  is 
more  satisfactory  to  immerse  the  whole  article  finally  in  clean  solvent, 
which  prevents  the  formation  of  rings.  If  sufficient  solvent  is  not  at  hand 
for  this,  the  ring  usually  can  be  removed  by  careful  and  patient  sponging 
with  small  quantities  of  fresh  solvent,  taking  clean  cloths,  pads,  or  blotters, 
as  suggested  above,  and  working  from  the  wrong  side  of  the  material. 

4.  An  absorbent  (see  No.  2)  mixed  with  a  solvent  (see  No.  3)  in  the  form 
of  a  thick  paste.  The  white  absorbents  (French  chalk  or  magnesia)  are 
most  satisfactory.  Spread  the  paste  over  the  spot,  leave  it  until  thoroughly 
dry,  and  brush  it  off.  Repeat  this  treatment  if  necessary.  The  spreading 
of  the  solvent  and  the  formation  of  a  ring  will  be  avoided  to  a  considerable 
extent  in  this  way.  The  method  is  especially  useful  for  cleaning  light- 
colored  unwashable  materials,  laces,  and  the  like. 

Gums. 

See  ''resinous  substances,"  page  301. 
Ice  cream. 

One  of  the  following  agents  may  be  employed  in  removing  ice-cream 
stains: 

1.  Soap  and  water  as  in  ordinary  laundering.  Use  this  for  wash  ma- 
terials in  the  case  of  stains  in  which  no  chocolate  or  highly  colored  fruit  or 
other  substance  is  present. 

2.  Cool  or  lukewarm  water,  followed  by  agents  used  in  removing  grease 
spots.  Sponge  the  stains  thoroughly  with  water.  If,  on  drying,  a  grease 
spot  from  the  cream  remains,  remove  it  by  any  of  the  methods  suggested 
for  ''grease  spots,"  (page  292). 

3.  Agents  suggested  under  "fruit  and  berries  (fresh),"  "fruit  and  berries 
(cooked),"  "coffee,"-  "chocolate  and  cocoa,"  and  the  like,  according  to 
the  stain  in  question. 

Indelible  (copying)  pencil  marks. 

The  dye  and  the  reagents  used  to  remove  such  stains  may  vary  with 
different  makes  of  pencils,  but  for  those  used  in  these  experiments  the 
following  reagents  are  satisfactory: 

1.  Alcohol  (grain  or  wood).  Soak  the  stains  for  a  few  minutes  or  until 
they  are  dissolved.  The  graphite  marks  then  remain,  but  can  be  removed 
by  washing *with  soap  and  water.  The  alcohol  is  effective  also  after  these 
stains  have  been  washed  and  ironed. 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


295 


2.  Javello  water.  This  destroys  the  dye.  Remove  the  graphite  either 
before  or  after  ai)plying  this  agent  by  washing  with  soap  and  water. 

Ink  {India). 

The  treatment  for  removing  India  ink  from  textiles  is  the  same  as  for 
*'ink  (printing)''  (p.  295). 

Ink  {marking). 

So-called  "indelible"  or  marking"  inks  are  of  two  common  types, 
namely,  that  containing  silver  nitrate  or  other  silver  compound  and  that 
with  an  organic  dye,  usually  ''aniline  black,"  as  its  basis. 

Silver  nitrate  ink  may  be  known  generally  from  the  directions  for  its 
use,  which  state  that  articles  marked  with  it  must  be  laid  in  the  sun  or 
pressed  with  a  warm  iron  before  they  are  washed.  This  is  to  bring  about 
the  precipitation  of  metallic  silver,  which  gives  the  black  or  brown  color 
to  the  marks.  Javelle  water  may  be  used  to  remove  stains  from  silver 
nitrate  inks  (p.  285).  Apply  this  repeatedly  until  the  color  of  the  spot 
disappears.  Then  soak  the  stained  place  in  ammonia  to  remove  the  silver 
chloride  formed. 

Aniline  black  ink  may  be  known  also  from  the  directions  for  its  use, 
v/hich  generally  state  that  the  articles  marked  mth  it  must  not  be  ironed 
until  after  they  have  been  washed.  Anihne  black  inks  are  remarkably 
fast  and  it  is  practically  impossible  to  remove  them  after  they  have  once 
become  dry.  The  method  given  above  for  the  removal  of  silver  nitrate 
ink  stains  is  not  effective  in  removing  aniline  black  ink  stains;  neither 
are  satisfactory  results  obtained  by  trying  most  of  the  methods  used  for 
ordinary  writing  ink  stains. 

Ink,  black  {printing).- 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  used  for  removing  printing-ink 
stains : 

1.  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering).  Remove  fresh  stains  by 
applying  an  abundance  of  soap  and  rubbing  thoroughly. 

2.  Lard,  followed  by  soap  and  water,  as  in  No.  1.  Rub  the  stained  place 
with  lard,  and  work  it  well  into  the  fibers  to  loosen  the  stain. 

Ink  {writing). 

For  an  ink  spot  of  unknown  composition,  it  is  necessary  to  try  various 
agents,  beginning  always  with  the  simplest  and  that  least  likely  to  injure 
the  fabric.   One  of  the  following  agents  may  be  utilized: 

1.  Absorbents:  Cornmeal,  salt,  French  chalk,  fuller's  earth,  magnesia, 
talcum  powder,  and  the  like.  The  application  of  such  substances  serves 
to  remove  any  ink  not  absorbed  by  the  fibers  and  keeps  the  ink  from 
spreading.  For  a  large  ink  spot,  apply  one  of  these  substances  before  trying 
other  agents.  Work  the  absorbent  around  with  some  blunt  instrument 
and  renew  it  when  it  becomes  soiled.  When  dry  absorbent  fails  to  take 
up  more  ink,  make  it  into  a  paste  with  water  and  continue  the  apphcation. 


296 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


2.  Soap  and  water  as  in  ordinary  laundering.  This  is  satisfactory  for 
some  types  of  school  inks,  which  can  be  washed  from  fabrics;  for  carbon 
inks,  which  are  unaffected  by  chemicals  and  can  be  removed  only  mechan- 
ically; and  sometimes  for  the  fresh  stains  of  other  inks. 

3.  Milk.  Soak  the  stains  for  a  day  or  two,  if  necessary,  in  milk,  changing 
the  milk  as  often  as  it  becomes  discolored.   This  is  effective  for  some  stains. 

The  foregoing  methods  may  be  used  safely  on  all  washable  fabrics. 
If  they  fail  to  remove  the  spot,  apply  one  of  the  chemicals  mentioned 
below: 

4.  Oxalic  acid,  saturated  solution.  Soak  the  stain  for  a  few  seconds, 
then  rinse  in  clear  water,  and  finally  in  water  to  which  a  few  drops  of 
ammonia  have  been  added. 

5.  Potassium  permanganate.  This  is  satisfactory  for  stains  upon  many 
delicate  fabrics  as  well  as  on  ordinary  materials. 

6.  Javelle  water. 

7.  Commercial  ink-removers  generally  are  satisfactory  if  the  directions 
furnished  with  them  are  followed  and  the  excess  of  the  substance  is  re- 
moved by  thorough  rinsing  in  clean  water. 

8.  Lemon  juice.   Keep  the  stain  moistened  and  exposed  to  the  sun. 
For  ink  on  carpet,  first  apply  absorbents,  as  in  No.  1;  follow  by  repeated 

applications  of  oxalic  acid,  as  in  No.  2,  or  potassium  permanganate,  as  in 
No.  5,  or  by  rubbing  with  the  cut  surface  of  a  lemon,  squeezing  on  the 
juice  and  rinsing  between  applications  with  a  clean,  wet  cloth  until  no 
more  ink  can  be  removed.  Rub  the  spot  then  with  a  clean,  dry  cloth. 
After  the  carpet  is  dry,  brush  up  the  nap  with  a  stiff  brush  or  a 
cloth. 
Iodine. 

One  of  the  following  agents  may  be  used  in  removing  iodine  stains  from 
unstarched  materials: 

1.  Water.  Wash  the  stain  in  an  abundance  of  water  or  soak  it  for  a 
number  of  hours  in  cold  water.  These  stains  can  be  removed  also  by 
wetting  with  water  and  drying  in  a  warm  place,  such  as  over  a  radiator, 
repeating  this  if  necessary. 

2.  Ammonia.   Sponge  the  stain  with  dilute  ammonia. 

3.  Alcohol.  Sponge  the  stain.  This  agent  frequently  can  be  used  on 
materials  which  water  would  injure. 

4.  Starch,  prepared  as  for  laundry  purposes;  for  washable  materials. 
Immerse  the  stained  place  in  the  starch  and  boil;  it  first  turns  blue  and 
then  disappears. 

5.  Flour,  used  in  the  same  manner  as  starch. 

For  removing  iodine  stains  from  starched  materials  one  of  the  following 
agents  may  be  employed: 

1.  Ammonia.  Soak  the  stains  in  dilute  ammonia  until  they  dis- 
appear. 

2.  Water.   Boil  the  stained  material  for  5  or  10  minutes. 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


297 


Iron-rust. 

For  iron-rust  stains  on  white  washable  materials  one  of  the  agents  given 
below  should  be  used.  In  the  case  of  colored  materials,  the  effect  of  the 
agent  should  be  tried  first  on  a  sample  or  in  an  inconspicuous  place. 

1.  Hydrochloric  acid,  made  by  diluting  the  strong  acid  with  an  equal 
volume  of  water.  Spread  the  stained  place  over  a  bowl  of  hot  water  and 
apply  the  acid  drop  by  drop  until  the  stain  turns  bright  yellow;  then  im- 
merse at  once  in  hot  water  and  rinse  thoroughly.  Repeat  the  treatment, 
if  necessary.  Add  a  little  ammonia  or  borax  to  the  last  rinsing  water  to 
neutralize  any  acid  which  may  remain  in  the  goods. 

2.  Oxalic  acid,  in  saturated  solution,  used  in  the  same  way  as  hydrochloric 
acid  in  No.  1.   Or  apply  the  crystals  directly  to  the  stain  and  moisten. 

3.  Cream  of  tartar.  Boil  the  stained  place  in  a  solution  of  4  teaspoon- 
fuls  to  1  pint  of  water,  until  the  stain  disappears.  This  agent,  owing  to 
its  cost,  is  practicable  only  for  stains  upon  small  articles  which  can  be 
immersed  and  boiled  in  a  cup  or  two  of  solution,  though  it  may  be  used 
in  the  case  of  larger  articles  by  holding  them  above  the  solution  in  such  a 
way  that  only  the  stained  portion  is  immersed. 

4.  Lemon  juice.  Spread  the  stained  place  over  a  vessel  of  actively 
boiling  water,  and  then  squeeze  lemon  juice  on  the  stain.  After  a  few 
minutes  rinse  the  stain  and  repeat  the*  process.  This  method  is  rather 
slow  but  does  not  injure  delicate  white  cotton  or  linen  fabrics. 

5.  Lemon  juice  and  salt.  Sprinkle  the  stain  with  salt,  moisten  with  lemon 
juice,  and  place  in  the  sun,  adding  more  lemon  juice  if  necessary. 

6.  Acid  fruits  or  vegetables.  Those  mentioned  below  are  satisfactory 
and  have  the  advantage  of  being  found  in  the  home  garden  or  easily  pur- 
chased. Others  cannot  be  used  because  their  juices  are  so  highly  colored 
as  to  leave  stains  themselves  on  the  fabric.  The  use  of  lemon  juice  has 
been  described  above. 

(a)  Rhubarb  stalks.  One  stalk,  cut  up  and  boiled  in  one  cup  of  water, 
gives  a  solution  strong  enough  to  dissolve  iron-rust.  If  the  stalks  have 
highly  colored  skins  peel  them  before  using.  Boil  the  stain  in  the  solution 
for  15  minutes  or  longer,  if  necessary. 

(b)  Begonia.  Place  several  leaves,  together  with  the  stems,  in  a  saucepan 
with  only  enough  water  to  keep  them  from  burning.  Boil  the  stain  in  the 
infusion  until  it  disappears. 

(c)  Pineapple.  Cut  up  a  round  slice,  about  one-half  inch  in  thickness, 
and  boil  with  enough  water  to  keep  it  from  burning.  Boil  the  stains  for 
five  minutes  or  until  they  disappear. 

(d)  Grapefruit.  Use  the  pulp  and  juice  from  one-fourth  of  a  fresh 
grapefruit  in  the  same  way  as  the  pineapple. 

Lead  foil. 

One  of  the  following  agents  may  be  employed  for  this  purpose : 
1.  Soap  and  water,  for  washable  materials.    Use  the  soap  freely  and 
rub  the  stain  thoroughly.   Sponge  woolen  materials. 


298 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


2.  Chloroform  or  other  clean  organic  solvent.  Immerse  the  stained 
place  in  a  small  vessel  of  the  solvent  and  brush  gently  with  a  small  soft 
brush  or  rub  with  a  cloth. 

Lead  pencil. 

The  marks  from  lead  pencils  contain  graphite,  which  is  insoluble.  The 
methods  of  removing  pencil  marks  from  textiles  are  the  same  as  for  re- 
moving lead  foil  marks.  A  soft  eraser  sometimes  can  be  used  successfully 
in  effacing  the  marks,  especially  upon  stiff  or  starched  materials. 

Leather. 

The  following  agents  are  satisfactory  in  some  cases: 

1.  Soap  and  water,  as  in  ordinary  laundering.  Use  an  abundance  of 
soap,  with  thorough  rubbing. 

2.  Potassium  permanganate  (p.  286). 

Lime  {slacked). 

To  remove  lime  stains,  allow  the  spots  to  dry,  brush  carefully,  and  treat 
in  the  same  way  as  alkali  stains  (p.  288). 

Meat  juice  or  gravy  stains. 

Stains  from  meat  juice  are  similar  to  blood  stains  (page  288).  Hot 
water  sets  the  stains  and  should  not  be  used  until  the  protein  material 
has  been  removed  by  cold  water.*  Grease  spots,  which  sometimes  remain 
after  the  remainder  of  the  stain  is  removed,  especially  in  the  case  of  stains 
from  cooked  meat,  can  be  removed  by  the  methods  used  for  grease  (p.  292). 
In  the  case  of  gravies  thickened  with  flour,  it  sometimes  is  necessary  to 
follow  this  treatment  by  one  of  the  treatments  recommended  for  ''white 
sauce"  (p.  306). 

Medicines. 

If  the  nature  of  the  medicine  is  known,  the  remover  can  be  chosen 
accordingly.  If  the  nature  of  the  medicine  stain  is  not  known,  it  is  neces- 
sary to  try  various  agents  until  one  is  found  which  serves  the  purpose. 

Each  of  the  following  agents  is  satisfactory  in  removing  some  medicine 
stains : 

1.  Boiling  water,  poured  on  the  stain  from  a  considerable  height,  as  for 
fruit  stains  (p.  291). 

2.  Soap  and  water,  as  in  ordinary  laundering. 

3.  Acids,  such  as  hydrochloric  or  oxalic.  Dilute  solutions  of  these  acids 
sometimes  are  useful  for  stains  containing  metallic  salts. 

4.  Alcohol.   Sponge  the  stain  with  alcohol  or  soak  it  in  alcohol. 

5.  Javelle  water.  This  agent  sometimes  will  bleach  a  stain  that  resists 
treatment  by  other  means. 

Mildew. 

One  of  the  following  agents  may  be  used  for  the  removal  of  mildew  stains: 
1.  Soap  and  water,  as  in  ordinary  laundering.    Very  fresh  stains  can 
be  washed  out.    Drying  in  the  sun  helps  to  bleach  the  spots. 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


299 


2.  Sour  milk.  Soak  the  stains  overnight  in  sour  milk  and  then  place  in 
the  sun  without  rinsing.  Repeat  the  treatment  several  times  if  necessary. 
Light  stains  can  be  removed  in  this  way. 

3.  Lemon  juice.  Moisten  the  stains  with  lemon  juice  and  allow  them 
to  remain  in  the  sun.   This  is  effective  in  removing  slight  stains. 

4.  Javelle  water.   Use  this  agent  for  bleaching  old  stains. 

5.  Potassium  permanganate.  Use  this  agent  upon  old  and  persistent 
stains. 

Milk  and  cream. 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  used  in  removing  spots  from  milk 
and  cream: 

1.  Cold  or  lukewarm  water,  followed  by  hot  water  and  soap  (ordinary 
laundering),  for  stains  on  washable  materials.  For  spots  on  other  fabrics, 
sponge  with  soapy  water  and  then  with  clean  water. 

2.  Cold  or  lukewarm  water,  followed  by  chloroform,  gasoline,  or  some 
other  grease  solvent.  For  fabrics  w^hich  ordinary  laundering  would  injure, 
first  sponge  carefully  with  water,  allow  to  dry,  and  then  sponge  with  a 
grease  solvent. 

Mucus. 

To  remove  mucus  stains,  soak  in  ammonia  water  or  in  salt  and  water, 
then  wash  with  soap  and  cold  water. 

Mud. 

Allow  mud  stains  to  dry  and  brush  carefully  before  any  other  treatment 
is  used.   Sometimes  no  other  treatment  is  necessary. 
The  following  agents  are  satisfactory: 

1.  Soap  and  water,  as  in  ordinary  laundering,  for  washable  materials. 

2.  Alcohol.   Sponge  the  stains  with  alcohol. 

3.  Water.   Sponge  the  stains. 

4.  Cut  raw  potato.  For  black  silks  of  firm  weave,  after  brushing,  rub 
the  spot  with  the  potato.  This  leaves  a  thin  film  of  starch  on  the  surface 
of  the  cloth,  which  can  be  brushed  off  when  dry.  This  treatment  is  too 
harsh  for  any  but  rather  smooth,  firm  goods  and  leaves  a  spot  on  all  but 
black  materials. 

Paints  and  varnishes. 

Before  using  any  agent  upon  paint  or  varnish  stains,  it  is  best  to  scrape 
off  as  much  of  the  stain  as  possible  from  the  surface  of  the  material. 

One  of  the  following  agents  may  be  used  for  the  removal  of  paint  and 
varnish  stains,  not  including  ''alcohol  stain,"  which  is  discussed  separately: 

1.  Soap  and  water.  Fresh  stains,  especially  on  washable  materials,  are 
removed  easily  by  carefully  washing  with  plenty  of  soap.  Older  stains 
sometimes  can  be  removed  in  this  way  if  they  are  first  softened  by  rubbing 
oil,  lard,  or  butter  into  them  thoroughly. 

2.  Turpentine.    Sponge  the  stains  with  pure  turpentine,  or  wash  the 


300  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


whole  article  in  it,  if  the  spots  are  large  or  scattered,  and  then  rinse  it 
several  times  in  fresh  quantities  of  the  solvent. 

3.  Turpentine  and  ammonia.  Stains  which  are  not  fresh  and  yet  have 
not  entirely  hardened  can  be  softened  by  moistening  them  with  ammonia 
and  sprinkling  them  with  a  little  turpentine.  Roll  the  article  up  for  15 
or  20  minutes,  or  soak  it  for  several  hours,  if  necessary,  and  then  wash  it 
with  warm  water  and  soap. 

4.  Oil  solvents,  such  as  chloroform,  applied  in  the  same  way  as  the  tur- 
pentine, are  satisfactory  (No.  2).  Gasoline,  kerosene,  and  alcohol  are 
less  satisfactory. 

5.  Sodium  carbonate  or  washing-soda  (3  tablespoons  to  each  gallon  of 
water).  Boil  the  stains  in  this  solution.  The  method  is  successful  for 
such  materials  as  will  stand  the  treatment. 

None  of  these  methods  will  remove  extremely  old  stains. 

In  paint  causing  an  alcohol  stain,  a  pigment  is  suspended  in  alcohol 
with  small  amounts  of  shellac  and  other  resinous  material.  The  methods 
of  removing  it  from  fabrics  differ  somewhat  from  those  for  ordinary  paint 
stains.  Treatment  with  turpentine  alone  or  with  other  oil  solvents,  which 
usually  will  remove  ordinary  paint  stains,  is  ineffective.  One  of  the  fol- 
lowing agents  should  be  employed: 

1.  Soap  and  water  for  very  fresh  stains  on  washable  materials. 

2.  Alcohol.   If  the  stains  are  fresh,  sponge  them  freely  with  alcohol. 

3.  Turpentine  and  ammonia  for  old  stains. 

4.  Strong  ammonia  for  old  stains.  Soak  the  stain  for  half  an  hour  in 
strong  ammonia  and  then  wash. 

Paints,  water  color. 

The  following  agent  will  be  found  satisfactory  for  removing  stains  made 
by  water  color  paints  on  materials  not  injured  by  water: 

1.  Soap  and  water.  Wash  the  material  in  lukewarm  or  cold  water  with 
soap,  the  stained  portions  being  rubbed  if  necessary.  Both  fresh  and  old 
stains  can  be  removed  in  this  way.  This  method  is  satisfactory  in  the  case 
of  washable  silks  and  woolens,  as  well  as  cotton  or  linen  materials. 

The  following  agents  are  fairly  successful  in  removing  these  stains  from 
materials  like  finished  silks,  which  would  be  injured  by  washing.  Although 
it  is  almost  impossible  to  remove  all  traces  of  the  stains,  the  appearance 
of  the  spots  may  be  improved  greatly. 

2.  Gasoline.    Dip  the  stained  portion  in  gasoline  and  rub  vigorously. 

3.  Glycerin  and  water.  Sponge  the  stain  with  glycerin  until  the  water 
color  is  removed  and  then  with  lukewarm  water  to  remove  the  glycerin.  In 
case  a  water  ring  is  left,  treat  this  as  described  under  ''water  spots" 
(page  306). 

Paraffin  or  paraffin  wax. 

For  removing  the  part  of  the  stain  which  has  penetrated  the  fiber, 
use  one  of  the  following  agents: 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


301 


1.  Blotting  paper  or  an  absorbent  powder  and  a  warm  iron  (No.  2 
under  "  grease  "). 

2.  Grease  solvents.  If  a  trace  of  the  stain  remains  after  treatment, 
asia  No.  1,  sponge  the  stain  carefully  with  a  grease  solvent  (see  No.  3 
under  "  grease  "). 

For  colored  paraffin  see  "  candle  wax  (colored),"  page  290. 

Perspiration. 

While  the  perspiration  from  most  of  the  body  is  acid,  that  from  the 
armpits  is  alkaUne.  For  treating  colors  changed  by  this,  see  "  alkah," 
page  288.  The  yellow  stains  sometimes  caused  upon  white  material 
by  perspiration  are  removed  by  the  following  agents : 

1.  Soap  and  water.  Exposure  to  the  sun  helps  to  bleach  the  stained 
material. 

2.  Javelle  water. 

3.  Potassium  permanganate. 
Pitch. 

See  "resinous  substances,"  below. 
Resiiis  and  resinous  substances. 

One  of  the  following  solvents  may  be  used:  Turpentine,  chloroform, 
alcohol  (grain  or  wood),  ether,  kerosene,  gasoline,  and  water  for  water- 
soluble  gums,  such  as  gum  arable.  In  each  case  sponge  the  stain  or  im- 
merse it  in  the  solvent  and  rub. 

Salad-dressing. 

Salad-dressings  usually  contain  oil,  vinegar  (or  lemon  juice),  and  condi- 
ments, and  may  contain  egg  or  cream  also.  If  egg  or  cream  is  present,  hot 
water  must  not  be  used.  For  discoloration  due  to  the  acid  of  the  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice,  treat  in  the  same  way  as  acid  stains  (p.  287). 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  used  for  salad-dressing  stains: 

1.  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering),  for  washable  materials.  Sponge 
delicate  materials  with  lukewarm  water,  using  soap  if  the  material  is  not 
harmed  by  it. 

2.  Grease  solvents.^ 
Scorch. 

Scorch  upon  cotton  and  linen  sometimes  can  be  removed,  if  the  fibers 
are  not  actually  burned.  Wool  and  silk  are  disintegrated  at  a  lower  tem- 
perature than  cotton  and  linen  and  cannot  be  restored  to  their  original 
condition  after  being  scorched. 

For  removing  slight  scorch  stains  from  cotton  and  linen,  use  one  of  the 
following  agents: 

1.  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering).  This  is  sufficient  to  remove 
very  slight  stains. 

2.  Water  and  sunlight.  Wet  the  spot  with  water,  or  soap  and  water, 
and  expose  to  the  sun  for  a  day,  or  longer,  if  necessary.  The  scorch  dis- 
appears much  more  slowly  if  the  material  is  not  moistened  before  exposure. 


302 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


3.  Bread  crust.  Very  slight  scorch  on  the  surface  of  materials  which 
are  not  especially  delicate  sometimes  can  be  rubbed  away  with  a  bread 
crust. 

Shoe-dressings. 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  used  in  removing  stains  from  the 
black  shoe  polishes: 

1.  Soap  and  water  for  the  pastes.  If  the  stains  are  fresh,  sponge  or  wash 
them  thoroughly  with  an  abundance  of  soap  (p.  284). 

2.  Turpentine  only  for  the  pastes  containing  turpentine — this  ma}^  be 
detected  by  the  odor.  Immerse  the  stained  places  and  rub  gently  in  tur- 
pentine. 

3.  Potassium  permanganate  or  javelle  water  for  stains  from  the  black 
liquid  dressing.  First  remove  as  much  of  the  stain  as  possible  by  sponging 
or  washing  as  in  No.  1. 

The  common  tan  leather  dressings  consist  either  of  a  liquid  cleaning 
solution  or  a  box  of  polishing  wax,  or  both.  The  cleaning  solution  some- 
times contains  a  considerable  amount  of  free  oxalic  acid,  which  may  weaken 
a  fabric  seriously  if  allowed  to  remain  long  in  contact  with  it.  Sometimes 
also  water-soluble  dyes  are  present  and  these  make  a  much  more  per- 
sistent stain  on  wool  than  on  cotton.   Use  one  of  the  following  agents: 

1.  Soap  and  water,  for  stains  upon  cotton  and  linen  (p.  284). 

2.  Alcohol.  The  stains  on  wool  are  removed  more  successfully  by  spong- 
ing (p.  284)  with  alcohol,  than  with  soap  and  water. 

The  stains  produced  by  the  polishing  waxes  usually  may  be  removed  by 
one  of  the  wax  solvents  (page  300). 

For  removing  spots  caused  by  white  shoe  pastes  or  liquids,  use  the 
following  agent: 

Water.   First  sponge  the  spot  (p.  284),  and  when  dry,  brush  thoroughly 
or  rub  in  the  direction  of  the  weave  with  a  piece  of  the  same  material. 
Silver  nitrate. 

See  ''ink  (marking),''  page  295. 
Soap. 

When  a  material  has  not  been  rinsed  sufficiently  and  is  ironed  with  soap 
still  present  in  the  fiber,  stains  sometimes  appear  which  resemble  iron-rust 
stains,  but  usually  are  lighter  yellow  in  color.  Use  the  following  for  such 
stains : 

Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering).    Bleaching  in  the  sun  helps  to 
remove  stains  which  are  especially  persistent. 
Soot. 

Soot  spots,  being  composed  of  fine  particles  of  carbon,  are  insoluble 
and  must  be  removed  from  a  fabric  mechanically.  Use  one  of  the  following 
agents : 

1.  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering).  First  brush  the  stain,  then 
place  on  the  stain  absorbent  powders,  such  as  fuller's  earth,  French  chalk. 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


303 


cornstarch,  cornmeal,  or  salt,  work  them  around  until  they  become  soiled, 
and  brush  them  away.   Then  wash  or  sponge  the  stain. 

2.  Chloroform,  gasoline,  or  other  organic  solvents,  for  materials  injured 
by  washing.  First  brush  the  stain  lightly  or  treat  it  with  absorbent 
powder,  as  in  No.  1,  then  immerse  it  in  the  solvent  and  rub  gently,  or 
brush  with  a  small,  soft  brush.  For  the  treatment  of  rings  caused  by 
organic  solvents,  see  ''grease,"  page  292. 

Soup. 

Stains  from  soup  should  be  treated  in  the  same  way  as  those  from  white 
sauces  (page  306). 

Stove-polish. 

The  following  agents  are  fairly  satisfactory: 

1.  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering).  Rub  the  soap  thoroughly 
on  the  stain. 

2.  Chloroform,  gasoline,  or  other  organic  solvent,  for  materials  injured 
b}^  washing.  Immerse  the  stain  in  the  solvent  and  while  immersed  rub 
it  gently  or  brush  it  with  a  small  soft  brush. 

Sugar  sirups. 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  used  in  removing  sugar  sirup 
stains : 

1.  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering),  for  washable  materials. 

2.  Sponging  with  clear  water  is  satisfactory  for  other  materials. 

Tar,  road  oil,  creosote  oil,  asphalt,  asphalt  paint,  and  the  like. 

The  stains  from  these  substances  are  grouped  together  because  they 
are  somewhat  similar  in  their  chemical  composition.  In  general,  the  same 
solvents  are  used  for  all.  The  stains  are  rather  difficult  to  remove  from 
textiles,  especially  from  cotton,  and  after  the  6ily  or  tarry  part  of  the 
spot  has  been  removed,  dark-colored  organic  or  mineral  impurities  are 
likely  to  remain. 

One  of  the  following  agents  may  be  used: 

1.  Turpentine.  Sponge  the  stains  or  immerse  them  in  turpentine,  and 
rub.  The  latter  treatment  is  best  if  the  fabric  is  not  too  dehcate.  For 
stains  on  carpet,  scrub  with  a  cloth  soaked  in  turpentine,  changing  to  a 
fresh  cloth  as  soon  as  it  becomes  discolored,  and  continuing  as  long  as 
any  color  comes  off. 

2.  Turpentine,  as  in  No.  1,  followed  by  thorough  washing  in  soap  and 
hot  water  (p.  284). 

3.  Chloroform,  apphed  in  the  same  way  as  turpentine  in  No.  1  and  No.  2. 

4.  Lard.  Rub  thoroughly  into  the  stain,  then  wash  in  hot  water  and 
soap.   Repeat  the  treatment  if  necessary. 

Tea. 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  employed  in  removing  tea  stains : 
1.  Borax,  boiling  water.    If  stains  are  on  cotton  or  linen  and  not  more 


304 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


than  a  few  days  old,  soak  them  in  a  borax  solution  (3^  to  1  teaspoon  to 
1  cup  of  water)  and  then  rinse  in  boiling  water. 

2.  A  strong  soap  solution,  containing  a  half -inch  cube  of  soap  to  each 
cup  of  water.  Boil  the  stained  material  in  this  solution.  Stains  2  or  3 
weeks  old  are  removed  successfully  if  they  are  on  small  articles  of  white 
wash  material  which  can  be  boiled  in  a  small  quantity  of  liquid. 

3.  Potassium  permanganate,  for  stains  which  resist  other  reagents. 

4.  Javelle  water  for  persistent  stains.  This  is  slightly  less  satisfactory 
than  the  potassium  permanganate. 

5.  Lemon  juice  and  sunlight.  Keep  the  stains  moist  with  lemon  juice 
and  expose  them  to  the  sun  for  a  day  or  two.  They  will  be  practically 
removed. 

Tobacco. 

One  of  the  following  agents  may  be  utilized  in  removing  tobacco- juice 
stains : 

1.  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering).  Sponge  materials  which 
cannot  be  washed.  If  a  stain  on  washable  materials  cannot  be  completely 
removed  by  washing,  bleach  it  in  the  sun.  Moistening  it  with  lemon  juice 
makes  it  disappear  more  quickly. 

2.  Wood  or  grain  alcohol.  Traces  of  color  remaining  upon  wool  fabrics 
after  sponging  with  water  can  be  removed  sometimes  by  sponging  with 
alcohol. 

3.  Potassium  permanganate,  for  stains  which  washing  will  not  remove 
(p.  286). 

4.  Javelle  water,  for  stains  which  washing  will  not  remove. 
Tomato  vine. 

One  of  the  following  agents  should  be  used  in  removing  such  stains: 

1.  Lemon  juice  and  sunlight.  First  wash  the  stains  carefully,  then 
moisten  them  with  lemon  juice  and  expose  them  to  the  sun  for  several 
days  if  necessary.  This  is  satisfactory  for  stains  on  white  washable  ma- 
terials. 

2.  Alcohol  (wood  or  grain).  Sponge  the  stains  with  alcohol,  which 
removes  the  green  part  of  the  stain.  Stains  on  wool  or  silk  are  practically 
removed  by  this  treatment. 

3.  Potassium  permanganate.  First  wash  the  stains  with  soap  and 
water  or  sponge  with  alcohol. 

4.  Javelle  water.  First  wash  the  stains  with  soap  and  water  or  sponge 
with  alcohol. 

Turmeric. 

Turmeric  is  a  constituent  of  many  pickles  and  of  curry  powder,  to  which 
it  is  added  for  its  yellow  color  and  aromatic  flavor.  To  remove  such  stains, 
one  of  the  following  agents  may  be  used: 

1.  Dilute  ammonia.  Remove  fresh  stains  on  white  materials  by  soaking 
in  this  reagent. 


STAIN  REMOVAL 


305 


2.  Alcohol  (grain  or  wood).  Apply  in  the  same  way  as  No.  1.  These 
agents  are  very  satisfactory  on  old  stains. 

3.  Javelle  water. 

4.  Potassium  permanganate. 

Varnish. 

See  ''paint  and  varnish,"  page  299. 
Vaseline. 

One  of  the  following  reagents  may  be  employed  in  removing  vaseline 
stains : 

1.  Turpentine.  Sponge  fresh  stains  with  this  agent.  Old  stains,  even 
those  which  have  been  washed  and  ironed,  usually  can  be  removed  by 
soaking  in  turpentine,  if  care  is  taken  to  immerse  them  completely. 

2.  Agents  used  in  Nos.  2,  3,  and  4,  under  ''grease,"  page  292,  for  fresh 
stains.  Ordinary  washing,  (No.  1,  under  "grease,")  is  not  usually  sufficient 
to  remove  the  stains. 

Verdigris. 

The  blue-green  tarnish  on  copper,  brass,  and  bronze,  consisting  of  basic 
copper  carbonate,  is  known  commonly  as  verdigris.  In  removing  it  from 
textiles  use  the  following  agents: 

1.  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering).  Stains  that  are  merely  on 
the  surface  of  the  material  can  sometimes  be  removed  in  this  way. 

2.  Dilute  acids,  such  as  vinegar,  or  lemon  juice.  Apply  one  of  these  to 
the  stain  and  rinse  off  as  soon  as  it  has  dissolved  the  verdigris. 

Vinegar. 

See  "acid,"  page  287. 
Walnut,  black. 

Fresh  stains,  which  are  still  moist,  usually  can  be  removed,  provided 
the  material  is  strong  enough  to  stand  the  treatment,  but  old  stains  or 
stains  on  delicate  fabrics  in  many  cases  cannot  be  removed  by  any  of  the 
reagents  tried. 

The  following  reagents  are  satisfactory  in  some  cases : 

1.  Concentrated  soap  solution,  prepared  by  shaving  about  1  cubic  inch 
of  laundry  soap  into  1  pint  of  hot  water  and  stirring  until  dissolved.  Boil 
the  stain  in  this  solution.  This  treatment  is  successful  only  with  fresh 
stains  upon  cotton  or  linen.  In  the  case  of  week-old  stains,  a  gray  color 
persists. 

2.  Soap  solution  as  in  No.  1,  followed  by  bleaching  with  Javelle  water. 
This  treatment  is  effective  in  removing  the  gray  stains  mentioned  in  No.  1, 
in  many  instances. 

3.  Javelle  water,  diluted  with  an  equal  volume  of  hot  water.  Soak 
the  stained  place  for  13^  hours  in  this  solution,  then  rinse  thoroughly, 
treat  with  dilute  oxalic  acid,  and  rinse  again.  This  is  effective  in  removing 
a  week-old  stain  and  the  fibers  of  the  material  are  not  seriously  injured. 


306 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Soaking  the  stain  in  Javelle  water  of  full  strength,  however,  rots  the 
material. 

Water  spots. 

Some  silks  and  wools  are  spotted  by  water.  This  probably  dissolves 
some  of  the  finishing  or  weighting  substances  present  and  on  evaporating 
these  substances  are  deposited  irregularly  or  in  rings.  A  satisfactory 
method  for  removing  such  spots  is  to  dampen  the  entire  material  evenly 
and  press  it  while  still  damp.  Either  sponge  the  material  carefully  with 
clean  water  or  shake  it  in  the  steam  from  a  briskly  boiling  teakettle  until 
it  is  thoroughly  damp,  then  press  it. 

White  sauces,  cream  soups,  gruel,  and  the  like. 

These  usually  consist  chiefly  of  milk  and  butter,  thickened  with  flour. 
Flavoring  materials  and  vegetables,  which  may  be  added,  do  not  as  a  rule 
affect  the  character  of  the  stain.  The  presence  of  the  starch  and  gluten 
of  the  flour  makes  it  particularly  hard  to  remove  such  stains  from  materials 
that  cannot  be  washed.  Use  one  of  the  following  agents  for  treating  these 
stains : 

1.  Soap  and  water  (ordinary  laundering). 

2.  Hot  water.  Sponge  the  stains.  Follow  this  by  a  grease  solvent 
when  necessary. 

Whitewash. 

Whitewash  stains  should  be  treated  in  the  same  way  as  alkali  stains 
(page  288). 

Wine. 

See  ''fruit  and  berries  (fresh)," page  291.  When  the  stain  is  first  made 
sprinkle  salt  on  it  to  keep  it  from  spreading. 


PART  III 


CLOTHING 

CHAPTER  XIV 
TEXTILES  * 

By  Beulah  Blackmore 

The  word  textile  as  used  in  this  chapter  is  appKed  to  the 
common  fibers  and  the  woven  goods  produced  from  them.  Since 
the  making  of  fabrics  has  been  taken  out  of  the  home,  the  house- 
wife's knowledge  of  materials  has  become  very  limited,  while 
the  industry  has  been  steadily  advancing.  In  fact,  the  manu- 
facturer can  so  disguise,  substitute,  and  adulterate  a  textile 
that  even  the  expert  may  be  deceived  by  the  appearance.  No 
objection  should  be  raised  to  an}^  fiber  that  is  suited  to  its  pur- 
pose ;  the  point  for  contention  is  that  the  buyer  frequently  pays 
for  one  kind  of  material  and  receives  another.  Textiles  cannot 
be  standardized  until  the  consumer  is  ready  to  train  himself 
through  study,  experience,  and  observation,  to  recognize  good 
materials  and  to  demand  a  fair  return  for  his  money. 

COTTON 

Cotton  has  short,  flat  fibers  with  a  spiral  twist,  character- 
istics that  give  elasticity  and  the  possibiUty  of  being  spun  into 

*In  this  discussion  are  frequent  quotations,  as  indicated,  from  Some 
Points  in  Choosing  Textiles,  by  Charlotte  M.  Gibbs  (Baker),  Univ.  of  111., 
Bull.  15.  Acknowledgment  is  also  made  for  valuable  suggestions  from 
The  Study  of  Textiles,  by  Nellie  Crooks  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Lake 
Placid  Conference  on  Home  Economics,  1908,  and  from  Hints  on  Choosing 
Textiles,  by  Bertha  E.  Titsworth,  Bull.  45,  in  the  Cornell  Reading-Course 
for  the  Farm  Home. 

307 


308 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


fine  thread  (Fig.  57) .  The  quahty  of  cotton  materials  depends 
on  the  strength  of  the  fibers,  the  fineness  or  coarseness  of  the 
material,  the  weave,  the  color  and  design,  and  the  adultera- 
tions.* 

Adulteration. 

Cotton,  being  the  cheapest  fiber,  is  not  adulterated  with 
any  other  fiber  when  the  material  is  to  be  sold  as  cotton  cloth, 
but  it  can  be  made  to  appear  heavier 
by  the  addition  of  mixtures  called  siz- 
ing. Starches,  gums,  dextrin,  glue, 
china  clay,  as  well  as  other  ingredients 
in  varying  proportions,  constitute  this 
sizing  which  may  add  a  large  per- 
centage to  the  weight  of  the  cloth. 
The  spaces  between  the  threads  are 
filled  up,  and  a  good  finish  is  given  to 
the  cloth,  although  the  wearing  quality 
is  not  improved.  If  present  in  large 
quantities,  the  cloth  is  greatly  reduced 
in  weight  and  firmness  after  the  first 
washing.  Adulterations  of  this  kind  can  be  detected  by  the  feel- 
ing, a  large  quantity  imparting  a  harshness  to  the  material.* 

If  material  suspected  of  being  heavily  weighted  or  sized  is 
rubbed  vigorously  between  the  hands,  the  white  chalky  specks 
of  sizing  may  be  seen  on  the  hands.  If  the  material  is  held  up 
and  torn  quickly,  a  small  cloud  of  starch  or  sizing  may  be  seen. 
If  very  heavily  starched  material  is  touched  by  the  tongue, 
the  starch  may  be  tasted  or  a  sticky  spot  left  on  the  material. 
In  very  thin  fabrics  the  sizing  may  often  be  detected  by  hold- 
ing the  cloth  up  to  the  light,  when  the  starch  shows  between 
the  threads.  Washing  or  thoroughly  boiling  a  sample  in  soda 
water  will  show  the  amount  of  sizing  present. 

Another  method  of  adulterating  cotton  is  shown  in  certain 
kinds  of  dotted  swiss.   A  good  swiss  has  thread  dots  woven  or 
embroidered  in  the  cloth.    These  dots  are  generally  woven 
*  Univ.  of  111.,  Bull.  15. 


Fig.  57. — Cotton  fibers,  show- 
i  n  g  the  characteristic 
twist. 


TEXTILES 


309 


with  continuous  threads  on  the  back  of  the  cloth;  and  in  a  later 
process  of  finishing,  the  threads  between  the  dots  on  the  wrong 
side  of  the  material  are  sheared  off,  leaving  only  the  threads 
which  catch  through  to  make  the  dots  on  the  right  side.  Oc- 
casionally one  finds  a  piece  of  swiss  selling  at  the  regular  price, 
on  which  the  dots  instead  of  being  woven  as  just  described 
are  merely  dots  of  very  stiff  paste.  In  washing,  these  dots  dis- 
appear; or  if  they  do  not  disappear  entirely,  they  are  made 
brown  from  the  heat  of  the  iron. 

Occasionally  cotton  cloth  which  has  been  on  the  market  for 
some  time  is  weakened  by  the  action  of  the  chemicals  used  in 
bleaching,  dyeing,  or  in  the  sizing.  This  may  be  easily  detected 
by  tearing  the  cloth.* 

Mercerization. 

Mercerized  cotton  is  cloth  produced  by  the  action  of  a  strong 
alkali  on  cotton  fiber  rinsed  under  tension.  The  process  of 
mercerization  is  generally  carried  on  while  the  fiber  is  still  in 
the  yarn.  Mercerized  cotton  is  actually  stronger  than  cotton 
which  has  not  been  so  treated.  The  characteristic  twist  of  the 
cotton  fiber  is  taken  out,  and  the  cell-wall  is  thickened  by  con- 
traction. The  result  is  a  stronger  fiber,  a  long  slender  cyHnder 
which  reflects  the  light,  rather  than  a  flat  twisted,  ribbon-like 
filament.  The  cellulose  of  the  fiber  is  changed  into  another 
kind  of  chemical  substance  which  has  a  much  greater  affinity 
for  dye  substances;  therefore,  beautiful  colorings  may  be  found 
in  mercerized  cotton  materials. 

The  cost  of  producing  a  high  grade  of  mercerized  cotton,  it 
has  been  stated,  is  about  three  times  that  of  unmercerized  cot- 
ton; consequently  if  a  piece  of  this  material  is  offered  at  a  very 
low  price,  it  is  well  to  test  it  for  true  mercerization  before  buy- 
ing. This  may  be  done  by  thoroughly  washing  a  sample  or  ex- 
posing it  to  friction  and  the  weather.  The  gloss  of  properly 
mercerized  material  will  not  disappear  on  hard  wear  or  launder- 
ing. 

An  imitation  of  mercerized  cotton  may  be  made  by  the  action 
*  Opus  cit. 


310 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


of  very  heavy  and  very  hot  cyhnders  on  ordinary  cotton  cloth. 
This  imitation  will  not  withstand  friction  or  laundering. 

Standard  cotton  rnaterials.^ 

Standard  cotton  materials  such  as  muslins,  organdies,  per- 
cales, calicoes,  and  sheetings  differ  only  in  the  weight  of  the 
material,  fineness  of  thread,  hardness  of  twist,  and  method  of 
finish.  Ginghams  have  the  thread  dyed  before  weaving  and 
fancy  weaves  are  frequently  used.  Duck,  denim,  and  some 
other  heavy  materials  have  very  hard  twisted  threads  and  are 
frequently  woven  with  a  twill.  Silkolene  is  a  trade  name  for  a 
fine  cotton  cloth  with  a  silky  finish  given  after  the  cloth  is 
woven.  Mercerized  cottons  make  lustrous  materials,  such  as 
poplin,  imitation  pongee,  and  numerous  attractive  house-fur- 
nishing materials.  India  linon  is  entirely  cotton,  as  are  outing 
flannel  and  canton  flannel.  Many  tussahs,  voiles,  and  economy 
linens  and  other  materials  with  rather  deceptive  names  are  cot- 
ton materials  made  to  imitate  silk,  wool,  or  Hnen. 

Uses  of  cotton  materiah. 

Cotton  fiber  is  covered  by  cotton  wax,  which  serves  as  a  pro- 
tective coat  and  renders  cotton  material  very  slow  in  absorb- 
ing water.  For  this  reason,  cotton  dish-towels  are  unsatis- 
factory. If  a  cloth  to  absorb  moisture  is  desired,  it  must  be 
made  of  a  fiber  that  is  not  water-repellent.  In  absorbent  cotton 
the  wax  has  been  removed. 

Cotton  is  light  in  weight  and  inexpensive  and  affords  a  most 
desirable  fabric  for  general  wear.  It  is  especially  desirable  for 
undergarments  and  house  dresses,  since  it  is  not  impaired  by 
frequent  laundering.  Starch  is  absorbed  by  the  cotton  fibers 
as  readily  in  the  process  of  laundering  as  at  the  time  of  manu- 
facture. It  is,  therefore,  possible  to  keep  the  garments  as  fresh 
as  when  new.  Cotton  fabrics  shrink  for  the  first  few  times  that 
they  are  laundered.  The  percentage  of  shrinkage  varies  with 
the  type  of  fiber  and  the  method  of  manufacture  of  the  material. 
A  loosely  woven  material  will  often  shrink  more  than  a  closely 
woven  piece. 

*  Ojms  ext. 


TEXTILES 


311 


Some  of  the  more  common  cotton  materials  are  as  follows : 

Sheeting  should  have  round  firm  threads  closely  packed  together  with 
the  warp  and  filling  threads  equally  balanced.  Little  sizing  should  be 
used.  Unbleached  sheeting  will  give  better  wear  than  the  bleached,  be- 
cause fewer  chemicals  are  used  in  finishing  it.  It  will  become  white  in 
time.   It  is  used  for  bed  coverings. 

Long  cloth  is  a  soft,  firm  fabric  with  a  close  weave  made  of  a  fine  grade 
of  cotton  yarn  of  medium  twist.  The  material  is  dull  in  finish  and  has  a 
rather  fuzzy  surface,  making  it  undesirable  for  outer  garments.  It  is 
used  for  undergarments  and  aprons. 

Cambric  is  a  plain  weave  with  a  smooth  surface  on  one  side.  There 
are  many  grades  of  this  material.  -Because  of  its  smooth  surface  it  sheds 
the  dust.  It  is  a  most  desirable  material  for  undergarments,  aprons,  waists, 
and  baby  clothing. 

Nainsook  is  a  very  soft,  light  cotton  fabric  with  one  surface  slightly 
calendered,  or  pressed  with  heavy  hot  cylinders  to  give  a  gloss.  It  may  be 
distinguished  from  cambric,  long  cloth,  or  batiste,  because  its  construction 
is  not  so  firm  nor  its  finish  so  smooth.  It  is  used  for  infants'  clothes,  lingerie, 
and  undergarments. 

Batiste  is  a  sheer,  lustrous  cloth  in  white  and  dainty  colors.  There  is 
often  a  mercerized  thread  introduced  in  the  better  grades.  It  is  used  for 
waists,  dresses,  and  baby  clothes. 

Canton  flannel  is  a  heavy  cloth  with  twilled  surface  on  one  side  and  a 
soft  nap  on  the  other.  It  is  used  for  children's  underwear  because  of  warmth 
and  durability,  and  for  linings  in  order  to  add  warmth  to  other  garments. 

Flannelette  is  a  soft  cloth  with  a  nap  on  both  sides  of  the  weave  and  with 
figures  printed  on  plain  backgrounds.  It  is  low  in  cost  and  launders  easily. 
It  is  used  for  nightgowns,  underwear,  and  children's  clothing.  Because 
flannelette  is  so  popular  for  children's  garments  and  because  it  is  so  in- 
flammable, manufacturers  have  been  working  for  a  long  time  to  find  a 
process  whereby  they  may  render  this  material  permanently  fire-proof 
without  injuring  the  feel  or  durability  of  the  cloth  or  causing  it  to  appear 
damp  or  making  it  dusty.  The  process  must  not  affect  the  colors  or  the 
design  that  are  woven  into  the  cloth  or  dyed  or  printed  upon  it.  After 
many  investigations,  this  permanent  fire-proofing  has  been  accomplished. 

Calico  is  a  cotton  cloth  with  a  design  printed  on  one  side.  Calicoes 
may  be  seen  in  almost  any  color.  The  colors  are  generally  not  fast  and 
wiU  often  run  or  fade  when  subjected  to  water.  This  material  is  usually 
heavily  sized.  It  is  used  for  inexpensive  dresses,  aprons,  and  wrappers 
because  of  its  low  cost,  its  durability,  and  the  ease  with  which  it  is  laundered. 
Percale  is  much  like  calico,  but  much  superior  in  quality. 

Gingham  has  a  plain  weave  with  warp  and  woof  of  variously  folored 
threads  that  form  plaids,  checks,  and  stripes.  It  is  used  for  dresses,  aprons, 
and  shirts. 


312 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Chamhray  is  a  staple  fabric  of  many  years'  standing.  It  is  a  light-weight 
single  cloth  that  is  always  woven  with  a  plain  weave  and  always  has"  a 
white  selvage.  Its  effect  is  that  of  a  cloth  woven  with  one  color  in  the 
warp  and  a  white  filling.   It  is  used  for  dresses,  men's  shirts,  and  aprons. 

Galatea  is  a  heavy  firm  sateen  weave  with  design  printed  on  one  side. 
It  is  used  for  children's  clothes,  outing  suits,  and  the  like,  when  a  cloth  of 
strength  and  durability  is  desired. 

Cotton  damask  has  very  much  the  same  appearance  as  linen  damask 
before  it  is  washed.  This  excellent  finish  is  brought  about  both  by  mer- 
cerization  and  cloth  finish.  However,  one  who  buys  cotton  damask  de- 
feats his  own  purpose  in  getting  a  material  that  will  take  a  good  polish 
and  retain  its  smoothness,  from  the  very  fact  that  the  cotton  fiber  is  short 
and  the  ends  of  the  fibers  cannot  be  held  in  place  as  can  the  fewer  ends  of 
the  linen  fibers.  Therefore,  after  a  few  washings  the  cotton  damask  has 
a  fuzzy  surface,  it  refuses  to  take  or  hold  a  polish,  and  it  is  very  limp  and 
easily  soiled.   Cotton  damask  is  used  for  tablecloths  and  doilies. 

Velveteen  is  a  material  woven  in  imitation  of  velvet,  but  it  is  made 
wholly  of  cotton.   It  is  used  for  dresses  and  suits. 

Other  cotton  materials  are: 


For  dresses 


Albatross 

Lawn 

Bedford  cord 

Linon 

Buckram 

Mull 

Canvas 

Muslin 

Cheese-cloth 

Organdie 

Crepe 

Percale 

Crinoline 

Percaline 

Dimity 

Pique 

Drill 

Poplin 

Duck 

Sateen 

Gauze 

Silesia 

Khaki 

Tarlatan 

For  household  purposes 
Awning 
Chintz 
Crash 
Cretonne 
Denim 
Diaper 
Mummy 
Rep 
Scrim 


LINEN 

Linen  was  formerly  the  most  important  vegetable  fiber, 
and  was  commonly  used  for  all  household  purposes.  Of  late 
years  it  has  been  largely  replaced  by  cotton,  with  which  it  may 
be  compared,  although  there  are  still  uses  for  which  linen  is 
demanded,  and  others  for  which  linen  is  preferred  to  cotton. 

The  linen  fiber  is  long,  smooth,  and  quite  lustrous  (Fig.  58) 
when  spun  into  a  thread.  It  is  very  strong  and  there  are  not  so 
many  fuzzy  ends  as  are  found  in  cotton.  Cloth  made  from  it  is 
not  only  lustrous  and  rich-looking,  but  because  of  its  smooth- 


TEXTILES 


313 


ness  stays  clean  longer  than  cotton.  The  snowy  whiteness 
of  linen,  obtained  with  some  difficulty  in  bleaching,  is  quite  per- 
manent, and  since  the  fiber  takes  dyes  with  difficulty  and  parts 
with  them  quite  readily,  it  also  does  not  retain  stains  as  per- 
sistently as  does  cotton.* 

Adulteration. 

Linen  is  much  more  expensive  than  cotton,  and  when  linen 
prices  are  paid,  linen  should  be  received.  Since  the  two  fibers 
are  rather  hard  to  distinguish,  espe- 
cially when  heavily  starched  and  given 
a  good  finish,  it  is  easy  to  deceive  the 
buyer.  "  Linen collars  are  frequently 
largely  cotton,  ^4inen^^  handkerchiefs 
may  not  have  a  thread  of  linen,  as  is 
apt  to  be  the  case  with  rather  inex- 
pensive embroidered  handkerchiefs, 
and  table  "linen''  may  be  mercerized 
cotton,  cotton  and  linen,  or  even  or- 
dinary cotton.     To  distinguish  linen  Fig.  58.— Linen  fibers,  show- 

from  cotton,  the  threads  should  be  ex-  ,  characteristic 

,         (.  ^^  .  .       '  1  c  nodes  and  longitudinal 

ammed  careiully;  cotton  is  made  up  or  striations. 
short  fibers  which  project  from  the 

surface  of  the  thread,  and  become  fuzzy  when  the  thread  is 
rubbed  between  the  fingers;  when  broken,  cotton  has  a 
tufted  end,  while  the  linen  fibers  break  more  unevenly  and 
leave  a  more  pointed  end.  The  linen  thread  should  be  stronger 
than  the  cotton ;  it  has  more  luster,  and  is  usually  more  uneven. 
Some  kinds  of  linen  have  flat  threads,  but  cotton  is  frequently 
finished  in  imitation  of  flat-thread  linen. f 

Color. 

Linen  is  more  easily  disintegrated  than  cotton,  and  therefore 
does  not  withstand  the  action  of  boiling  alkali  solutions,  bleach- 
ing powder,  and  oxidizing  agents.  This  characteristic  together 
with  its  slow  reaction  to  dyestuff,  makes  it  difficult  to  obtain 


*  Univ.  of  111.,  Bull.  15. 


t  Opus  cit. 


314 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


a  fast  color  that  will  take  hold  of  the  fiber.  Natural  color  and  | 
white  are,  therefore,  more  likely  to  give  complete  satisfaction  il 
than  any  applied  color  in  linen  fabrics.*  | 

Sizing.  .   . , 

Linen  always  contains  a  certain  amount  of  sizing,  for  the 
yarn  would  become  rough  in  the  weaving  if  it  were  not  so 
treated.  Often  sizing  is  used  to  conceal  imperfection,  coarse 
weaving,  or  the  use  of  cotton  or  mercerized  cotton  fibers. 

Selection. 

Good  linen  yarn  is  round  and  twisted;  if  the  yarn  is  loosely 
twisted  and  flat,  the  material  will  not  wear  so  well. 

Linen  fiber  absorbs  moisture  readily;  it  is,  therefore,  very 
suitable  for  towelings  and  for  other  materials  that  are  used  to 
remove  moisture  from  sui faces.  Huck,  an  uneven  weave  giving 
a  good  surface  for  the  absorption  of  water,  makes  good  towels, 
and,  decorated  with  designs  in  damask  weave,  may  be  very  \ 
handsome. 

Many  linens  in  plain  weaves  are  available  for  clothing,  or 
embroidery,  while  the  coarse  Russian  crashes  are  becoming 
popular  for  decorative  purposes.  The  texture  of  linen  is  such 
that  the  heavier  kinds  hang  well  in  folds,  lie  flat  on  a  table, 
and  are  very  artistic  for  many  purposes.  The  old  test  for  iden- 
tifying linen  by  moistening  the  finger  and  putting  it  under  the 
cloth  is  not  always  a  sure  one,  since  the  moisture  will  not  come 
through  a  heavy  linen,  or  one  with  mnch  starch  in  it,  and  it 
will  come  through  a  sheer,  tightly  twisted  cotton.  A  better 
test  is  to  put  a  drop  of  olive  oil  on  the  cloth  and  press  it  between 
blotting  papers!  The  linen  becomes  more  transparent  than  the 
cotton.  There  is  a  peculiar  leathery  feeling  about  good  table 
linen,  which  cotton  will  not  give,  and  the  luster  is  different,  j 
although  this  is  difficult  to  describe.f 

It  is  more  difficult  to  choose  medium-priced  linen  wisely  than 
to  choose  the  finer  and  more  expensive  grades,  because  substitu- 
tion for  strong  fiber  and  various  finishes  may  be  used  to  lower 

*  Cornell  Reading-Course  for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull,  45. 
t  Univ.  of  111.,  Bull.  15. 


TEXTILES 


315 


the  price  while  they  maintain  the  appearance.  Shoppers  for 
institutions  as  well  as  for  the  home  are  often  lacking  in  ability 
to  judge  and  consequently  buy  towels  and  table  linen  which 
will  not  give  satisfactory  wear.  Without  training,  the  only 
safe  procedure  is  to  keep  strictly  to  reliable  firms  rather  than 
to  be  attracted  by  what  seem  to  be  better  values  at  lower 
prices  elsewhere.  Many  housekeepers  prefer  to  buy  the  un- 
bleached tablecloths  and  bleach  them  for  themselves.  There 
is  economy  in  this,  because  the  chemical  bleaching  used  almost 
exclusively  for  medium  grades,  weakens  the  fiber.  The  quality 
to  be  avoided  is  poorly  spun,  flat,  rather  thin  yarn,  heavily 
sized,  the  cloth  loosely  woven  and  light  in  weight,  sized  and 
beetled  so  that  it  looks  substantial  and  glistening.* 

Characteristics  and  uses  of  some  common  linen  fabrics. 
Butcher's  linen  is  a  heavy,  coarse  weave.    It  is  used  for  skirts,  waists, 
and  aprons. 

Cambric  is  a  fine,  sheer  material.  It  is  used  for  dresses  and  handkerchiefs 
because  of  its  sheer  texture. 

Crash  is  a  coarse  material,  the  yarns  being  irregular  in  size  and  slightly 
flattened.   It  is  used  for  towehng,  skirts,  runners,  and  upholstery. 

Damask  is  a  fine  satin  weave  with  figured  designs.  It  is  used  for  table- 
cloths, napkins,  and  towels. 

Huckaback  is  an  uneven  weave  with  much  of  the  filling  showing.  It  is 
used  for  toweling  because  of  its  rough  surface  which  easily  absorbs  moisture 
and  causes  a  glow  to  the  skin. 

Handkerchief  linen  is  a  firm,  even  weave  but  a  sheer  material.  It  is  used 
for  waists,  handkerchiefs,  and  baby  dresses. 

WOOL 

In  point  of  quality  wool  belongs  next  to  cotton,  although  in 
price  there  is  a  long  distance  between  them.  A  scaly  structure 
on  the  surface  of  wool  (Fig.  59),  especially  marked  in  sheep^s 
wool,  gives  it  virtues  possessed  by  no  other  fiber.  It  is  by  rea- 
son of  these  scales  that  wool  mats  together,  that  air  is  held  in  the 
spaces  of  a  woolen  garment,  that  it  absorbs  a  great  amount  of 
moisture  without  seeming  wet — characteristics  which  all  have 

*  Medium  priced  linens  for  institution  and  home.  Mary  Schenck 
Woolman.   Journal  of  Home  Economics,  9:10:447-451. 


316 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


their  value  in  clothing.  Elasticity,  strength,  and  luster  also 
are  attributes  of  wool,  and  the  kink,  more  or  less  conspicuous, 
aids  in  spinning  and  also  in  identifying  the  fiber.  The  finish 
given  to  the  best  grades  of  woolen  cloth  makes  them  stand  the 
weather  better  than  do  other  materials.  There  are  a  number  of 
fibers  commonly  classed  as  wools  which  vary  somewhat  from 
sheep's  wool.  The  more  hair-like  fibers  from  different  goats 
and  the  camel  do  not  possess  the  felting  quality  of  wool,  but  on 
the  other  hand  are  more  lustrous.  Very  attractive  upholstery 
fabrics  are  made  of  goats'  hair.  An- 
gora goat  hair  is  manufactured  into 
mohair  as  well  as  the  various  angora 
knitted  fabrics.  Camel's  hair  has  a 
number  of  uses,  and  the  public  is  more 
or  less  familiar  with  alpaca  from  the 
animal  of  that  name.  Wool  fiber 
alone  may  be  spun  a  second  time. 
Loosely  twisted  threads,  such  as  those 
Fig.  59.-w^ber,  showing  knitted  fabrics  or  worsted  goods, 
the  characteristic  scales  may  be  puUed  to  pieces  and  the  fiber 
and  the  serrated  surface,  gp^n  again  either  alone  or  in  com- 
bination with  new  wool  or  cotton,  the  product  being  known 
as  shoddy.* 

As  compared  with  other  textile  fibers,  wool  is  light  in  weight 
in  proportion  to  its  warmth.  Wool  absorbs  moisture  very 
slowly.  It  retains  drops  of  moisture  on  the  outside  fibers,  and 
the  lustrous  surface  of  these  fibers  often  causes  the  drops  to 
slide  off.  Thus  it  actually  sheds  moisture.  The  durability  of 
materials  made  from  wool  is  due  to  the  elastic  nature  of  the 
fiber.  Wools  absorb  dyestuffs  readily  and  ordinarily  retain 
them  in  their  original  color  during  the  full  life  of  the  fiber. 
The  felting,  or  matting,  quality  of  wool  is  much  increased  by 
treating  the  wool  with  acid  or  alkaline  solutions  or  even  with 
boiling  water.  Such  treatment  softens  the  fiber  and  opens  up 
the  scales  to  such  an  extent  that,  when  the  fabric  is  cooled  or 

*  Charlotte  Gibbs  Baker.  Seven  Textile  Fibers.  Journal  of  Home 
Economics,  8:3:144-147. 


TEXTILES 


317 


dried,  the  fibers  interlock  more  firmly  than  under  ordinary 
conditions.* 

Adulter  ati07i. 

Since  the  demand  for  woolen  cloth  far  exceeds  the  supply  of 
new  wool,  there  are  many  devices  for  making  the  supply  go  a 
long  w^ay,  and  consequently  many  methods  for  deceiving  the 
buyer.  The  manufacturer  seeks  a  material  cheaper  than  the 
fiber  he  wishes  to  adulterate,  one  which  can  be  concealed  readily. 
Wool  when  combined  with  the  cheaper  cotton  fiber  makes  a 
material  which  wears  well,  but  does  not  keep  its  shape  as  well 
as  all-wool  cloth,  is  less  w^arm,  and  should  of  course  demand  a 
lower  price  than  all-wool.  Because  of  the  felting  property  of 
wool,  it  is  quite  possible  to  conceal  a  good  deal  of  cotton  under 
the  surface  of  the  woolen  cloth,  and  when  the  fibers  are  mixed 
before  the  threads  are  spun,  the  task  of  detecting  them  becomes 
doubly  difficult. t 

By  the  modern  methods  of  manufacturing,  cotton  and  wool 
mixtures  are  becoming  much  more  satisfactory,  and  for  certain 
types  of  garments,  such  as  dresses  and  caps,  where  there  is  no 
particular  strain  on  any  part,  the  mixture  has  proved  satis- 
factory. Only  by  combining  fibers  is  the  manufacturer  able  to 
meet  the  great  demand  for  material.  For  an  outer  suit  and  an 
overcoat,  nothing  has  been  found  more  satisfactory  than  the 
all-wool  material. 

The  most  reliable  tests  for  a  mixture  of  cotton  and  wool  are 
chemical  or  microscopic,  but  as  these  are  not  practicable  for  the 
average  buyer,  others  must  be  sought.  Wool  has  luster  and  kinks; 
the  ends  of  the  threads  are  stiff  and  look  rather  wivy.  When  a 
sample  is  carried  home,  burning  will  serve  to  distinguish  be- 
tween the  two.  Wool  burns  slowly,  chars,  has  an  odor  of  burnt 
feather,  goes  out  easily,  and  leaves  a  crisp  ash;  cotton  burns 
quickly  with  a  flame,  with  little  odor,  and  leaves  no  ash.  A 
little  practice  in  breaking  the  threads  will  help  one  to  distin- 
guish between  the  two;  the  difference  is  not  one  that  can  be 
easily  explained,  but  the  experienced  housewife  knows  it  w^elLf 

*  Univ.  of  111.,  Bull.  15.  t  Opus  cit.  %  Opus  ait. 


318  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Woolens  and  worsteds. 

Two  classes  of  cloth  are  manufactured  from  wool:  woolens 
and  worsteds.  Woolens  are  made  generally  of  short  wool 
carded  and  spun  into  yarn  in  which  the  fibers  lie  in  all  direc- 
tions. This  is  woven  into  cloth,  the  surface  of  which  usually  is 
heavily  felted,  as  in  flannel  blankets,  so  that  all  of  the  inter- 
sections of  threads  in  weaving  are  covered.  In  materials  of 
this  class  the  manufacturer  has  great  opportunity  to  introduce 
either  shoddy  or  cotton,  for  the  fibers  may  easily  be  covered  by 
surface  felting. 

Worsteds  are  made  from  longer  staple  wool,  combed  and 
drawn  until  the  fibers  are  parallel,  then  hard  twisted.  When 
woven,  the  ends  of  the  fibers  do  not  project  on  the  surface,  and 
the  finish  is  not  intended  to  cover  the  weave;  hence  it  is  more 
difficult  to  adulterate  unless  entire  cotton  threads  are  woven 
with  the  worsted,  and  these  are  more  easily  detected  than  either 
a  mixture  of  cotton  and  wool,  or  shoddy  in  woolen  cloth.  Com- 
mon examples  of  woolens  are  flannel,  broadcloth,  and  Venetian 
cloth;  of  worsteds,  serge,  challie,  men^s  suitings,  and  voile. 
Mohair  is  a  worsted  cloth  woven  of  the  wool  of  the  Angora  goat, 
with  a  warp  usually  of  cotton  or  silk.* 

It  is  economical  to  buy  good  worsted  fabrics  for  the  following 
reasons:  They  are  made  from  new,  long,  wool  fibers  and  there- 
fore make  a  strong  fabric;  they  seldom  contain  shoddy;  they 
hold  in  place  well  when  pressed;  they  are  firmly  woven  and  are 
not  easily  frayed;  they  will  endure  constant  wear  for  more  than 
one  season  and,  if  cared  for,  will  look  well  as  long  as  they  last. 

Shoddy.'^ 

As  has  been  pointed  out,  the  demand  for  woolen  goods  is  so 
much  greater  than  the  supply  that  it  is  necessary  to  resort  to 
various  measures  to  increase  the  supply  of  cloth.  One  method 
is  to  use  the  wool  over  and  over  again.  Rags  are  bought  up  by 
the  rag-man,  sold  to  the  larger  dealer,  again  to  the  shoddy'^ 
manufacturer,  who  cleans  them,  sorts  them,  tears  them  to 
pieces,  and  uses  the  best  all-wool  rags  to  produce  fibers,  which 

*Opus  cit. 


TEXTILES 


319 


are  re-spun  and  again  woven,  either  separately,  if  of  very  good 
quality,  or  mixed  with  new  wool  or  cotton.  Such  a  material 
is  warm,  looks  well  for  a  time,  and  has  its  place,  but  must  not 
be  bought  for  new  wool  or  demand  the  price  of  good  woolen 
cloth.  This  industry  is  enormous  and  shoddy  is  often  found  in 
expensive  novelty  materials  as  well  as  in  cheap  all-wool'^ 
cloth.  Because  of  the  shortness  of  the  fibers,  it  may  be  detected 
readily  when  used  alone,  but  in  combination  with  good  wool  it 
is  more  difficult  to  detect. 

One  class  of  shoddy  consists  of  very  short  fibers,  clippings 
from  the  mills,  which  are  worked  into  the  surface  of  a  felted 
cloth  after  it  is  woven.  These  short  fibers  after  a  time  work  out, 
and  are  found  in  the  bottoms  of  coats  and  inside  the  linings, 
leaving  the  surface  of  the  cloth  threadbare. 

Characteristics  and  uses  of  some  common  woolen  materials. 
Albatross. — A  material  of  plain  weave  and  rather  open  texture.   On  the 

surface  is  a  printed  or  impressed  design  giving  a  crepe  effect.    It  is  used 

for  dresses. 

Alpaca. — A  thin  fabric  of  close  texture  made  from  the  fibers  of  an  animal 
of  the  llama  species.  Since  this  fiber  is  hard  to  spin,  it  is  generally  combined 
with  a  cotton  or  a  silk  warp.   It  is  used  for  linings  and  dresses. 

Astrakhan. — ^A  fabric  with  a  curly,  wavy  surface  resembhng  astrakhan 
fleece.  It  is  used  for  dress  and  coat  trimming,  such  as  collar  and  muff  sets. 

Bedford  cord. — A  fine  woolen  cloth  with  ribs  of  different  widths  running 
with  the  length.  It  is  often  all-wool,  but  the  raised  ribs  are  sometimes 
padded  with  cotton.   It  is  used  for  dresses. 

Bolivia  cloth. — A  close  felted  material,  very  thick  but  light  in  weight. 
The  surface  is  often  wavy.   It  is  used  for  suits  and  coats. 

Brilliantine. — A  cloth  resembling  mohair,  generally  a  plain  weave  with 
a  cotton  or  silk  warp.  It  has  a  hard  wiry  feel.  It  is  used  for  dresses  and 
linings  for  heavy  coats  and  suits. 

Broadcloth. — A  soft,  closely  woven  material  with  a  satin  finish.  The 
surface  is  napped  in  the  finishing  process  and  then  pressed  down.  The 
best  qualities  are  called  satin  broadcloth.   It  is  used  for  dresses  and  suits. 

Bunting. — A  plain,  even  thread  weave  of  mohair,  wool,  or  worsted. 
It  is  used  for  flags. 

Cashmere. — Made  from  the  hair  of  the  cashmere  goat.  The  surface  is 
twilled  but  rather  uneven,  since  the  yarn  is  very  difficult  to  spin.  It  is 
used  for  dresses  and  wraps. 

Challis. — A  plain,  even  weave  of  soft  texture.  A  challis  design  is  always 
printed.   It  is  used  for  dresses,  kimonos,  and  children's  dresses. 


320  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Cheviot. — A  stout  woolen  cloth  woven  with  a  rather  shaggy  surface.  It 
is  used  for  dresses,  suits,  and  wraps. 

Chinchilla. — Heavy  coating  material  with  rough  wavy  surface. 

Covert. — Heavy  twilled  cloth  generally  in  natural  undyed  shades.  It 
is  used  for  suits  and  coats. 

Felt. — Fabric  made  by  pressing  a  mass  of  wool  fiber  together.  It  is 
used  for  padding,  banners,  and  table-covers. 

Flannel. — Coarse-threaded,  loosely  woven,  light-weight  fabric  more  or 
less  spongy  and  elastic.   It  is  used  for  baby  dresses  and  garments. 

French  flannel. — A  fine  soft  twill-woven  variety  dyed  in  solid  colors, 
also  printed.   It  is  used  for  dresses  and  waists. 

Shaker  flannel. — A  variety  of  white  flannel  finished  with  a  nap.  Cotton 
warp  and  woolen  filling.   It  is  used  for  baby  dresses. 

Mackinaw. — ^A  very  heavy  blanket-like  material  used  by  lumbermen 
and  outdoor  workers  for  overshirts  and  jackets. 

Silk-warp  flannel. — A  high-grade,  pure  variety  of  flannel  woven  with  a 
silk  warp.   It  is  used  for  infants'  wear,  shawls,  and  undergarments. 

Baby  flannel. — A  light-weight  variety  of  flannel.  It  is  used  for  children's 
and  infants'  wear. 

Gloria. — Plain  weave  of  silk  and  wool,  or  silk  and  cotton.  It  is  used  for 
umbrella  coverings. 

Grenadine. — An  openwork  net-like  fabric  in  fancy  designs.  Woven  of 
silk  wool,  mohair,  or  cotton.   It  is  used  for  dresses. 

Henrietta. — A  twilled  cashmere  of  light  weight.  It  is  used  for  dresses. 

Homespun. — A  rough,  loosely  woven  material.  The  yarns  are  often 
quite  uneven.   It  is  used  for  men's  and  women's  suitings  and  coatings. 

Kersey. — A  felted  satin-finish  woolen  fabric  with  a  satin  weave  on  the 
back.   It  is  used  for  overcoats. 

Linsey  woolsey. — A  coarse  cloth  of  linen  and  wool.  It  is  used  for  inex- 
pensive skirts  and  dresses. 

Melton. — A  thick  heavy  woolen  fabric  with  a  short  nap.  It  generally 
comes  in  black  or  dark  blue.   It  is  used  for  coats  and  suits. 

Panama  cloth. — Woven  of  worsted  yarn  in  a  plain  weave.  A  solid  color 
usually  piece-dyed,  or  dyed  after  it  is  woven.  It  is  used  for  dresses  and 
suits. 

Prunella. — A  rich,  satin-faced  worsted  fabric,  usually  in  plain  colors. 
It  is  used  for  suits  and  dresses. 

Serge. — Worsted  material  with  twill  weave.  This  material  comes  in 
many  weights  and  qualities.  It  may  be  obtained  in  any  color.  It  is  used 
for  suits  and  dresses. 

Sicilian. — Heavy-weight  cotton  warp,  mohair  filled  cloth.  It  is  used 
for  dresses  and  linings. 

Tartans. — Plaids  of  various  Scottish  clans.  They  are  worn  as  diagonal 
scarfs. 

Tweed. — A  soft,  woolly,  rough-finished  woolen  material.    It  is  usually 


TEXTILES 


321 


woven  of  yarns  of  two  or  more  shades  or  colors.  It  is  used  for  suits  and 
separate  skirts. 

Velour. — A  thick,  soft,  felted  material.   It  is  used  for  suits  and  coats. 

Vicuna. — A  soft  wool  cloth  with  a  teasled  surface,  resembling  cheviot. 
It  is  used  for  waists. 

Voile. — Material  woven  with  a  plain,  even  weave  and  a  hard  twisted 
yarn.   It  is  dyed  in  plain  colors.   It  is  used  for  dresses. 

Whipcord. — Whipcord  is  much  hke  serge  with  a  pronounced  diagonal 
line.   It  is  used  for  suits  and  dresses. 

Diagonal. — A  material  with  a  serge  weave.  The  diagonal  effect  is  made 
very  prominent.   It  is  used  for  suits,  dresses  and  separate  skirts. 

Unfinished  worsted. — A  fabric  woven  with  yarn  of  little  twist.  The 
twill  effect  of  the  weave  is  covered  with  loose  fibers.  This  material  is 
very  dense.   It  is  used  for  suits  and  coats. 

Finished  worsted. — ^Yoven  in  much  the  same  way  as  unfinished  worsted 
but  with  a  much  tighter  twisted  yarn.  The  weave  may  be  distinctly  seen. 
It  is  not  so  dense  as  the  unfinished  worsted.   It  is  used  for  suits  and  coats. 

Ziheline. — The  better  grades  are  woven  with  a  w^orsted  warp  and  camel's 
hair  filhng.  These  long  hairs  from  the  fiUing  spread  over  the  surface. 
It  is  used  for  suits. 

SILK 

Silk  is  commonly  known  as  the  fiber  of  luxury.  It  is  the  most 
expensive  to  cultivate,  the  most  beautiful,  and  the  strongest 
fiber.  Since  it  is  the  most  expensive  to 
buy,  and  the  demand  for  it  is  so  large, 
the  temptations  to  adulterate  are  also 
naturally  very  great.  The  long, 
strong,  lustrous  silk  fiber  which 
bleaches  and  dyes  beautifully,  and  is 
fine  as  a  spider's  web  is  not  to  be  du- 
phcated  (Fig.  60).  The  best  grade,  or 
reeled  silk,''  is  taken  from  the  cocoon 
in  one  continuous  thread  which  may 
be  several  hundred  yards  long.  In 
manufacturing  reeled  silk,  many  de- 
fective cocoons  are  found  in  which 
the  fibers  are  not  perfect  or  are  broken. 
The  silk  from  these  cocoons  may  be 
treated  like  a  short  fiber  and  spun  into  threads  varying  in 
strength  according  to  the  length  of  the  fibers.    This  so-called 


Fig.  60. — Silk  fiber,  showing 
the  two  minute  filaments 
from  the  spinnerets  of 
the  silk  worm  and  the 
gum  which  at  first  holds 
these  two  filaments  to- 
gether. 


322  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


'^spun"  silk  has  not  the  high  luster  nor  strength  of  ''reeled" 
silk,  but  is  often  used  as  warp  with  reeled  silk  filling,  or  in 
imitation  pongee,  and  back  of  satins,  velvets,  and  in  many  other 
ways.* 

In  the  raw  state,  silk  is  sold  by  the  pound.  Three  thousand 
silkworms  are  required  to  spin  one  pound  of  silk,  and  one  to 
two  pounds  are  required  for  a  dress.  When  these  figures  are 
considered,  it  will  be  seen  why  good  silk  must  necessarily  be 
expensive.  There  is,  however,  a  demand  for  a  product  at  a 
moderate  price,  and  in  order  to  satisfy  it,  the  manufacturer 
resorts  to  methods  of  adulteration. f 

Adulter  ation.X 

In  olden  times  the  price  of  silk  was  much  greater  than  now, 
but  the  material  was  much  more  durable.  Silks  which  have  been 
laid  away  for  a  hundred  years  are  still  in  fairly  good  condition. 
At  present  silks  are  much  cheaper,  but  the  result  is  that  when 
they  are  put  away,  even  for  only  a  few  months  they  may  fall 
into  bits,  and  their  wearing  quality  cannot  be  compared  with 
old  silks.  The  reason  for  this  change  is  not  hard  to  find.  The 
cost  of  raw  silk  is  about  thirty  times  that  of  raw  cotton  and  the 
waste  at  least  five  times  that  of  cotton.  The  manufacturer 
must  make  up  in  some  way  if  he  is  to  sell  silk  at  the  prices  de- 
manded by  the  public. 

Silk  has  a  very  great  ability  to  absorb  dyes  and  metallic 
salts  without  apparently  changing  the  quality  of  the  material, 
and  since  dyes  and  metallic  salts  are  much  cheaper  than  pure 
silk,  the  manufacturer  makes  great  use  of  these  materials. 
Loading  is  the  common  name  for  this  process  of  treating  silk, 
and  it  is  common  practice  to  add  30  per  cent  of  foreign  material, 
just  the  percentage  lost  by  the  silk  when  the  gum  is  removed, 
while  it  is  possible  to  add  250  or  even  300  per  cent. 

When  one  buys  novelties  and  does  not  care  how  short  their 
life  is  to  be,  these  heavily  weighted  silks  answer  the  purpose  very 

*  Univ.  of  111.,  Bull.  15. 

t  Cornell  Reading-Course  for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  45. 
%  Univ.  of  III,  Bull.  15. 


TEXTILES 


323 


well,  but  they  are  not  durable.  Practically  no  silk  can  be  found 
on  the  market  entirely  free  from  loading,  but  there  is  a  great 
difference  in  the  amount  present. 

Another  method  of  adulterating  silk  is  with  cotton  and  mer- 
cerized cotton.  The  fibers  are  not  spun  together  here  as  the 
cotton  and  wool,  but  the  threads  of  the  two  materials  are  woven 
together.  In  satins,  velvets,  and  brocades  the  cotton  is  entirely 
covered  by  the  silk  threads  on  the  surface,  and  appears  as  the 
back  of  the  cloth.  In  cheap  silks  a  fine  cotton  thread  sometimes 
forms  either  warp  or  filling. 

Pongee  is  a  material  made  from  the  cocoon  of  the  unculti- 
vated silkworm;  rajah,  tussah,  and  other  uneven,  coarse  mate- 
rials are  from  the  same  source.  These  silks  are  very  strong,  but 
do  not  have  a  high  luster.  Mercerized  cotton  looks  quite  silky 
and  is  sometimes  mixed  with  these  silks,  or  a  material  of  mer- 
cerized cotton  and  spun  silk  may  be  sold  for  pongee,  or  even  a 
material  entirely  of  mercerized  cotton. 

Characteristics  and  uses  of  some  common  silk  fabrics. 

Bengaline. — Very  similar  to  cotton  rep.  Woven  entirely  of  silk  but  often 
padded  with  wool  or  cotton.   It  is  used  for  waists  and  dresses. 

Brocade. — A  fabric  woven  with  raised  figures  on  a  plain  ground.  Often 
a  combination  of  plush  and  satin  weave.    It  is  used  for  coats  and  dresses. 

Brocatel.- — A  kind  of  brocade  often  having  wool  figures  on  a  sUk  back- 
ground.  It  is  used  for  draperies  and  upholstering. 

Chenille. — Cloth  woven  mth  a  soft  fuzzy  face.    It  is  used  for  curtains. 

Chiffon. — A  thin,  transparent  silk  material  mth  plain  weave.  It  is  used 
for  dress  trimmings,  fancy  work,  and  millinery. 

China  silk. — A  plain  woven,  light-weight  silk.  The  warp  and  filhng 
are  evenly  balanced.  This  silk  may  be  obtained  in  any  color.  It  is  used 
for  gowns,  waists,  and  underclothing. 

Crepe  de  chine. — A  soft  lustrous  silk  woven  with  tightly  twisted  threads. 
The  threads  are  so  twisted  and  woven  as  to  make  a  cr^pe.  It  may  be  ob- 
tained in  printed  designs  or  plain.  It  is  used  for  dresses,  waists,  and  under- 
garments. 

Foulard. — A  plain  silk  cloth,  very  soft  and  highly  finished.  This  silk 
wears  excellently.   It  is  used  for  dresses. 

India  silk. — Very  similar  to  China  silk.   Originally  woven  in  India. 
Japanese  silk. — Similar  to  China  and  India  silk. 

Jersey  cloth. — This  material  is  a  soft  knitted  fabric  in  plain  colors.  It 
is  used  for  dresses,  suits,  and  gloves. 


324  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Meteor. — Crepe  de  meteor  is  similar  to  crepe  de  chine  in  texture.  Its 
face  is  more  satiny.   It  is  used  for  waists  and  dresses. 

Moirt. — A  waved  or  watered  effect  produced  on  plain  or  ribbed  silk. 
It  is  used  for  dresses,  trimmings,  and  linings. 

Panne. — A  name  applied  to  velvets  when  the  pile  is  pressed  down  giving 
a  high  luster.   It  is  used  for  coats,  evening  dresses,  and  millinery. 

Peau  de  soie. — A  heavy,  soft-finished  silk  material.  It  is  so  woven  that 
fine  close  ribs  may  be  seen  running  with  the  filHng.  Better  grades  are  the 
same  on  both  sides.   It  is  used  for  dresses  and  coats. 

Plush. — Long-piled  fabric  resembling  velvet.  It  is  used  for  wraps  and 
dresses. 

Pongee. — ^A  soft  plain  unbleached  washable  silk.  It  is  used  for  waists, 
dresses,  and  coats. 

Poplin. — A  ribbed  material  resembling  cotton  poplin.  It  is  used  for 
dresses,  waists,  and  suits. 

Sarcenet. — An  open,  plain,  rather  stiff  silk  resembhng  cotton  mull.  It 
is  used  for  hat  linings. 

Satin. — A  silk  material  with  a  very  high  finish  caused  by  the  floating 
of  silk  threads  over  the  surface.  There  are  many  qualities  and  variations 
of  this  material.   It  is  used  for  dresses,  linings,  and  trimmings. 

Taffeta. — Taffeta  is  either  plain  or  woven  in  lines  so  fine  as  to  appear 
perfectly  plain.  It  may  be  obtained  in  a  great  number  of  ornamental 
patterns  such  as  fancy  cords,  plaids,  and  stripes,  both  printed  and  woven. 
It  is  used  for  dresses,  suits,  and  trimmings. 

Tulle. — Openwork  silk  net.  It  is  used  for  draperies  and  evening 
dresses. 

Velvet. — Material  so  woven  that  the  surface  is  covered  with  projecting 
fibers.  The  better  qualities  are  made  entirely  of  silk.  It  is  used  for  dresses, 
coats,  and  suits. 

Velveteen. — A  material  woven  in  imitation  of  velvet,  but  made  wholly 
of  cotton.   It  is  used  for  dresses  and  suits. 

ARTIFICIAL  SILK 

For  years  chemists  of  America  and  Europe  have  endeavored 
to  make  a  fiber  which  would  compare  favorably  with  silk.  A 
number  of  so-called  artificial  silks  have  been  made  synthetically, 
but  each  has  lacked  some  desired  characteristic.  One  has  not 
withstood  moisture,  another  lacked  strength,  a  third  was  not 
sufficiently  pliable,  and  so  on.  It  is  only  recently  that  a  satis- 
factory fiber,  which  can  be  manufactured  at  a  reasonable  price, 
has  been  developed.  The  artificial  silk  now  commonly  found  on 
the  market  is  a  collodian-like  substance,  made  from  cotton  or 
wool  fiber,  put  through  capillary  tubes,  hardened  in  the  air  and 


TEXTILES 


325 


so  treated  that  it  will  withstand  moisture.  This  fiber  may  be 
manufactured  at  a  cost  below  that  of  pure  silk,  and  has  the 
promise  of  a  great  future.* 

The  artificial,  or  fiber,  silk  is  used  in  many  knitted  sweaters, 
scarfs,  dress  braids,  fancy  ribbons  and  is  combined  with  both 
pure  silk  and  cotton.  It  may  always  be  detected  by  its  bril- 
liancy and  stiffness.  If  the  burning  test  is  used,  artificial  silk 
is  found  to  burn  with  almost  explosive  rapidity.  It  also  dis- 
integrates if  it  comes  in  contact  with  water;  but  this  deficiency 
is  being  gradually  overcome  by  science. 

RAMIE 

Ramie,  a  vegetable  fiber  of  antiquity,  has  until  very  re- 
cently been  used  almost  exclusively  in  China  and  Japan.  A 
highly  lustrous  fiber,  in  this  respect  surpassing  linen,  and  very 
white,  its  use  has  been  limited  by  the  difficulty  with  which  the 
fiber  is  removed  from  the  surrounding  woody  tissue.  Ramie  has 
been  used  in  combination  with  silk  and  cotton,  its  luster  making 
it  hard  to  distinguish  when  woven  with  silk,  and  adding  rich- 
ness when  combined  With  cotton.  Japanese  and  Chinese  em- 
broideries on  this  material  have  been  common  in  the  markets  for 
some  years,  but  only  recently  has  ramie  linen,  by  the  piece, 
been  sold  in  this  country.  As  methods  for  producing  the  fiber 
are  improved,  more  of  it  may  be  expected  to  appear  on  the 
market,  and  the  shortage  of  European  linen  due  to  the  war  may 
give  an  impetus  to  the  importation  of  ramie  from  the  Orient.f 

At  present,  ramie  is  combined  with  cotton  or  Hnen  or  used 
alone  in  making  dress  materials. 

JUTE 

Jute,  another  vegetable  fiber,  is  familiar  in  sacking,  twine, 
and  door-mats,  but  it  is  not  expected  in  finer  materials.  The 
natural  color  of  this  fiber  is  somewhat  darker  than  linen  color, 
it  is  harsh  and  coarse,  yet  it  has  considerable  luster.  In  burlap 
the  fiber  is  used  alone,  while  in  monk^s  cloth  it  is  combined  with 

*  Baker,  Charlotte  Gibbs.  Seven  Textile  Fibers.  Journal  of  Home 
Economics,  8 :3 :144-147. 

t  Journal  of  Home  Economics,  8:3: 144-147. 


326 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


cotton  in  a  heavy  material.  In  its  natural  color  it  adds  a  pleas- 
ing tone  to  a  more  denim-like  cotton  and  jute  fabric,  particu- 
larly when  the  cotton  is  in  soft  tones.* 

TESTS  FOR  FABRICS  t 

A  general  comparison  of  fabrics  may  be  made,  but  this  will 
mean  little  even  to  the  expert,  since  each  class  includes  so  great 
a  variety  of  fabrics  which  differ  widely  in  appearance,  feel,  and 
strength. 

Feel 

The  feel  of  many  fabrics  very  closely  resembles  that  of  the 
raw  fiber. 

Cotton  material:  Unresponsive,  soft,  and  inelastic.  Cotton  because  of 
its  inelasticity  crushes  easily.  It  may  be  made  to  look  and  feel  somewhat 
like  wool,  but  it  always  retains  its  inelastic  characteristic. 

Wool  material:  Springy,  harsh,  and  elastic.  The  elasticity  of  wool  is 
one  of  its  most  desirable  qualities.  If  a  woolen  garment  becomes  wrinkled, 
many  of  the  creases  fall  out  if  the  garment  is  merely  hung  away.  This 
responsiveness  is  caused  by  its  elasticity.  If  woolen  material  is  combined 
with  much  cotton  or  shoddy  in  either  spinning  or  weaving,  it  loses  much 
of  its  elasticity. 

Silk  material:  Smooth,  cool,  and  very  elastic.  If  silk  is  of  good  quality, 
it  is  the  most  elastic  material.  For  this  reason,  silk  garments  hung  away 
will  look  very  smooth  and  fresh  in  a  short  time.  Silk  loses  this  quality 
when  adulterated  with  mercerized  cotton  or  heavily  weighted. 

Linen  material:  Firm,  stiff,  smooth,  cold,  very  inelastic,  and  leathery 
if  woven  with  a  firm  weave.  The  very  inelastic  quality  of  linen  causes  it  to 
crush  readily  and  thus  to  require  continual  pressing.  If  adulterated  with 
cotton,  it  loses  somewhat  its  firmness  and  smoothness. 

Artificial  silk  material:  Very  smooth,  wiry,  and  cold.  Artificial  silk 
material  is  very  unyielding.  If  combined  with  another  fiber,  it  is  much 
more  satisfactory. 

Ramie:  Firm  and  stiff.  It  resembles  both  linen  and  cotton.  It  does  not 
crush  quite  so  easily  as  linen. 

Strength. 

No  satisfactory  comparison  of  the  strength  of  different  fabrics 
can  be  made,  since  this  depends  on  the  size  and  quality  of  the 
*  Journal  of  Home  Economics,  8:3:144-147. 

t  This  material  is  condensed  from  Tests  for  Fabrics  as  discussed  in 
Dressmaking,  by  Jane  Fales,  published  by  Charles  Scribner's  Sons. 


TEXTILES 


327 


yarn  and  the  kind  and  quality  of  the  weave.  The  strength 
of  a  fabric  has  much  to  do  with  its  wearing  quahty,  but  there  can 
be  no  fixed  standard.  Each  fabric  should  be  sufficiently  strong 
for  the  purpose  for  which  it  is  intended. 

The  warp  and  filling  threads  should  be  equally  balanced 
either  in  numbers  or  size  of  yarn.  Dimity  is  an  example  of 
unbalanced  warp  and  filling;  it  is  well  known  that  after  a  few 
washings,  dimity  breaks  along  the  heavy  threads.  The  weaving 
should  be  well  done  with  the  threads  closely  enough  woven  to 
give  firmness  and  body  to  the  cloth  without  any  adulteration 
and  sizing. 

The  strength  of  the  warp  and  the  filling  threads  may  be 
tested  by  breaking  the  threads  after  raveling.  The  size  and 
twist  of  the  yarns  should  also  be  observed. 

The  threads  should  not  slip  out  of  place  with  a  slight  strain. 
To  test  durability  in  this  respect,  two  edges  may  be  pinned  to- 
gether as  for  a  common  seam,  and  the  material  opened  apart 
and  pulled  on  both  sides  of  the  pin.  If  the  pin  makes  conspicu- 
ous holes  in  the  material,  one  may  be  sure  the  cloth  cannot  be 
satisfactorily  used  for  a  garment  that  would  have  strain  at  the 
seams. 

Color. 

Color  is  affected  by  various  factors,  chiefly  by  washing,  boil- 
ing, soap,  hot  irons,  wear,  friction,  and  exposure  to  sun  and 
air. 

Cotton  and  linens  must  generally  be  tested  for  laundering. 
A  sample  should  be  cut  in  two,  and  one-half  kept  fresh.  The 
other  half  should  be  subjected  to  vigorous  soap  and  water 
washing,  dried,  pressed,  and  then  compared  with  the  original 
sample.  The  sample  may  be  exposed  to  strong  sunlight  by 
placing  it  outdoors  for  a  few  hours  or  days.  Half  of  the  sample 
should  be  kept  covered  so  that  the  degree  of  fading  may  be 
observed. 

Materials  worn  next  to  the  skin  should  have  sufficiently  fast 
color  to  withstand  friction.  They  may  be  tested  by  vigorous 
rubbing  with  a  piece  of  clean  white  cloth. 


328 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Burning. 

Burning  a  small  sample  of  cloth  gives  about  the  same  result 
as  burning  the  fiber.  The  closeness  of  the  weave  may  somewhat 
retard  the  rapidity  of  the  burning.  This  is  one  of  the  best  and 
most  reliable  tests  for  the  housewife. 

Cotton:  Since  cotton  is  cellulose,  it  bums  like  paper  or  wood.  Cotton 
material  burns  rapidly  and  with  a  steady  yellow  flame  leaving  a  gray  ash 
without  residue. 

Wool:  Wool  burns  much  like  hair,  smouldering  and  becoming  extin- 
guished often.   Woolen  material  leaves  oily,  gummy  globules  as  a  residue. 

Silk:  Since  silk  is  an  animal  fiber,  it  burns  much  like  wool,  although 
more  rapidly,  with  a  blue  leaping  flame.  It  leaves  an  oily,  gummy  globule. 
Unless  silk  material  is  weighted,  when  burned  it  is  similar  to  the  silk  fiber. 
If  the  silk  material  is  heavily  weighted,  the  burned  fabric  leaves  a  shell-like 
residue  slightly  smaller  than  the  sample.  This  remaining  shell  is  the 
weighting  which  does  not  burn  easily;  it  crumbles  at  the  slightest  touch. 
More  satisfactory  than  lighting  a  silk  sample  is  to  place  the  sample  on  a 
tin  dish  and  set  it  in  a  very  hot  oven.  The  silk  will  burn  away  leaving  the 
weighting  in  the  shape  of  the  original  sample. 

Linen:  Since  linen  is  a  vegetable  fiber,  it  burns  in  much  the  same  way 
as  cotton.  It  is  slightly  less  inflammable  than  cotton,  because  it  has  more 
oil;  it  leaves  about  the  same  ash. 

Union  goods:  In  testing  union  goods,  or  materials  made  of  several  dif- 
ferent fibers,  the  problem  is  more  difficult.  In  this  case  the  material  is 
frayed  and  both  the  warp  and  the  filling  tested  separately.  To  carry  the 
test  still  further,  both  the  warp  and  the  filling  threads  may  be.  untwisted 
and  the  various  fibers  in  each  yarn  tested. 

Tearing. 

The  tearing  of  material  will  help  to  determine  in  a  general 
way  the  kind  of  fiber  as  well  as  the  strength  of  the  material. 

Cotton  material:  Cotton  material  tears  easily  with  a  shrill  sound.  The 
torn  edges  are  fuzzy  and  have  a  tendency  to  curl. 

Wool  material:  Wool  material  tears  with  a  dull  or  muffled  sound.  The 
ease  with  which  the  cloth  tears  depends  on  the  weight  of  the  yarn  and  the 
weave.  If  cotton  and  wool  are  woven  together,  the  kinds  of  fibers  may 
often  be  distinguished  along  the  tear. 

Plain  silks:  Plain  silks  tear  with  a  rather  clean  edge  and  give  a  shrill 
sound.   If  corded,  the  silk  tears  with  difficulty  if  at  all. 

Linen:  Linen  tears  with  difficulty,  leaving  the  ends  of  the  broken  threads 
with  long  straight  smooth  fibers  projecting.  If  cotton  is  present  in  a  linen 
fabric,  it  may  often  be  distinguished  along  the  torn  edges. 


TEXTILES 


329 


WEAVE  * 

The  weave  affects  the  appearance  and  often  the  wearing 
quality  of  cloth.  A  close  twill  weave  makes  a  firm,  durable  ma- 
terial, while  the  loose  basket  weave  gives  quite  a  different  effect 
and  is  frequently  lacking  in  firmness.  The  satin  or  sateen 
weave  makes  a  beautiful  surface  especially  in  linens  or  silks, 
but  may  cover  up  defects  in  the  hidden  threads.  Fancy  weaves 
in  cotton  novelties,  in  shirt-waist  materials,  and  in  fancy  mulls, 
often  leave  loose  threads  which  become  soiled  easil}^  and  may  not 
be  as  attractive  after  washing.  A  cloth  with  a  very  heavy  cross 
thread  or  filling,  and  a  very  fine  warp,  or  vice  versa,  may  split 
because  of  the  great  difference  in  the  strength  of  the  threads. 

Sometimes  figures  are  woven  in  such  a  way  that  when  the 
cloth  is  finished  each  figure  has  short  ends  of  thread.  For  ex- 
ample, in  weaving  madras  curtain  material,  the  filling  thread 
which  makes  the  figure,  jumps  from  one  figure  to  another,  and 
after  the  material  leaves  the  loom,  the  loose  threads  on  the  back 
of  the  material  are  cut  off.  Often  these  short  pieces  wash  out, 
or  the  ends  become  rough  and  fuzzy  looking. 

*  Univ.  of  111.,  Bull.  15. 


CHAPTER  XV 
THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 

By  Beulah  Blackmore 

To  the  woman  generally  falls  the  responsibility  of  the  wise 
or  unwise  expenditure  of  that  part  of  the  family  income  ap- 
portioned to  clothing.  Whether  she  spends  wisely  depends  on 
her  knowledge  of  all  phases  of  the  clothing  problem. 

One  of  the  first  questions  that  arises  is  whether  she  shall  buy 
ready-made  garments  or  buy  the  materials  and  make  similar 
garments  at  home.  The  conditions  surrounding  each  individual 
or  family  are  so  different  as  to  make  impossible  an  answer  to 
this  question  which  will  suit  all  cases.  Probably  skill,  time,  and 
the  limitation  of  one's  purse  are  the  most  influential  factors  in 
such  a  choice. 

When  selecting  materials  or  garments,  one  should  be  able  to 
judge  the  durability,  including  the  quality  of  the  material, 
their  suitability  to  the  occasion  for  which  the  garments  are  to  be 
worn  and  to  the  wearer,  the  becomingness  of  color  and  line,  and 
the  price  in  relation  to  the  clothing  allowance  from  the  income. 

Clothes  have  the  power  to  make  persons  feel  comfortable  and 
at  ease  or  to  make  them  conspicuous  and  unhappy.  This  does 
not  mean  that  the  costume  need  be  new  or  old;  it  means  that 
it  should  be  appropriate  and  becoming.  It  means  adapting 
the  prevailing  style  to  one's  own  type  of  figure  and  personality. 
A  person  may  be  just  as  conspicuous  in  an  ultra-fashionable 
costume  as  in  one  that  is  very  out-of-date;  but  either  may  be 
adapted  to  conform  with  good  taste,  without  a  great  expendi- 
ture of  time  or  money. 

To  be  well  dressed  the  woman  who  makes  her  own  garments 
must  depend  largely  on  familiarity  with  the  principles  of  design, 
a  critical,  discriminating,  and  thoughtful  attitude  toward  cloth- 

330 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


331 


ing,  common  sense,  skill  in  the  manipulation  of  fabrics,  in 
draping,  or  in  cutting  cloth  by  a  pattern,  and  knowledge  of  the 
best  equipment  to  be  used.  ''Right  dress  is,  therefore,  that 
which  is  fit  for  the  station  in  life,  and  the  work  to  be  done  in  it, 
and  which  is  otherwise  graceful,  becoming,  lasting,  healthful  and 
easy;  on  occasion  splendid;  always  as  beautiful  as  possible."* 

Dictates  of  fashion  too  often  outweigh  one's  good  judgment, 
which  in  this  case  should  have  as  a  background  the  principles  of 
design.  Clothing  should  interpret  the  personality  of  the  wearer 
arid  emphasize  pleasing  elements  of  face  or  figure  rather  than 
exhibit  the  prevailing  fashion,  which  often  exaggerates  defi- 
ciencies instead  of  concealing  them. 

No  costume  can  be  artistic  or  picturesque,  although  it  may 
be  considered  fashionable,  if  it  perverts  the  natural  lines  of  the 
figure.  In  good  design  it  is  generally  possible  to  emphasize 
the  good  points  or  lines  of  the  figure  and  to  make  the  less  de- 
sirable lines  inconspicuous.  This  necessitates  careful  considera- 
tion of  the  silhouette.  Simplicity  in  silhouette,  in  fine,  in  the 
divisions  of  the  costume  made  by  line  or  dark  and  light,  and  in 
decoration,  cannot  be  overestimated.  The  search  for  greater 
simplicity  and  for  original  detail  are  the  two  principles  followed 
by  the  greatest  designers. 

Of  equal  importance  with  line  and  the  spaces  formed  by  these 
lines  is  the  study  of  color,  texture — an  extremely  subtle  surface 
quality  of  a  fabric  often  confused  with  color — and  dark  and  light 
values  (pages  45  .to  47).  This  is  a  problem  for  each  individ- 
ual; it  can  not  be  studied  too  much.  After  deciding,  then,  on 
the  type  of  gown  necessary  for  the  occasion  for  which  it  is  to  be 
worn,  the  following  phases  of  costume  design  must  be  considered, 
if  the  result  is  to  be  harmonious  and  beautiful:  silhouette;  line, 
including  space  division  and  balance;  dark  and  light  spacing; 
color;  texture. 

It  is  unwise  to  lay  down  hard  and  fast  rules  for  the  use  of 
suitable  color  in  costumes  for  different  types  of  persons,  be- 
cause general  rules  may  have  many  exceptions.  The  following 
table,  however,  may  be  suggestive. 

*  John  Ruskin.  Arrows  of  the  Chace. 


332 


A  MANUAL 


OF  HOME-MAKING 


2-2 

a" 


Co 


7f  S 

.  O 

5g 


c3  a; 


QO  H 
M  03 


i=5  O 
O 

J3  tJO 
03  eg 


o 

00  o 


O  c3 
O  <U 


^•1  8 


«  §  s 

^  o  ^  o 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


333 


334 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


EQUIPMENT  FOR  THE  SEWING  ROOM 

Good  equipment  is  necessary  if  the  home  worker  is  to  turn 
out  good  work  with  the  least  drain  on  her  own  strength.  In 
addition  to  the  customary  pieces  of  equipment,  a  floor  cloth,  a 
dress  form,  a  sleeve  form,  and  pressing  boards  are  almost  neces- 
sary conveniences. 

A  floor  cloth  is  a  large  square  of  cloth  or  a  sheet  which  may  be 
placed  on  the  floor  under  the  machine  to  catch  ravelings  and 
cuttings.  This  cloth  may  then  be  folded  around  the  base  of  the 
machine  at  night  and  opened  when  work  is  resumed,  or  it  may 
be  shaken. 

A  dress-form  is  almost  indispensable,  when  good  work  and 
time  are  considered.  This  may  be  obtained  at  a  department 
store,  or  ordered  directly  from  a  manufacturer.  A  dress-form 
is  bought  by  size,  the  number  corresponding  to  ready-made  gar- 
ments. A  form  one  or  two  sizes  too  small  should  be  selected 
and  padded  out  to  the  correct  size.  Only  in  this  way  is  one 
able  to  make  a  form  showing  individual  measurements.  A  tight- 
fitting  lining  must  be  made  of  some  very  heavy  material,  such 
as  unbleached  muslin  or  drilHng,  and  fitted  on  the  person.  The 
normal  armhole,  neck,  bust,  waist  and  hip-line  should  be 
marked.  The  lining  should  be  made  to  extend  about  10  inches 
below  the  waist-line  or  to  fit  well  down  over  the  fullest  part  of 
the  body.  This  lining  should  then  be  placed  on  the  form  and 
padded  out  with  tissue  paper,  hair,  or  excelsior.  The  lining 
should  be  overhanded  firmly  together  in  the  back,  from  the  top 
of  the  collar  to  the  bottom  of  the  peplum.  It  is  also  desirable  to 
make  a  skirt  for  the  figure  which  will  fit  tightly  around  the  hips. 

A  sleeve  board  and  a  skirt  board,  well  padded,  are  very  use- 
ful. It  is  also  convenient  to  have  a  padded  broom  handle  over 
which  seams  may  be  pressed  without  marking  the  remainder  of 
the  garment. 

Sewing  machine,'^ 

There  are  two  types  of  sewing  machine  in  use — the  auto- 
matic, or  single-thread,  and  the  lock  stitch,  or  two-thread 
*  Ext.  Circ.  14,  Coll.  of  Agr.,  Univ.  of  111, 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


335 


machine.  The  single-thread  machine  makes  a  chain  stitch, 
which  requires  about  a  half  more  thread  than  the  double- 
thread  machine.  The  stitch  on  the  former  is  a  very  fine,  pretty 
one,  and  for  thin  cotton  and  linen  materials  it  cannot  be  ex- 
celled. The  ends  of  the  thread  must  be  fastened  to  prevent 
the  stitching  from  ripping  out.  The  two-thread  machine,  which 
makes  a  lock  stitch,  has  a  greater  variety  of  uses,  as  the  tension 
is  adjustable  to  the  material  which  is  being  used.  The  thread- 
ing, operating,  and  oiling  of  the  machine,  and  the  use  of  the  at- 
tachments are  all  described  in  the  instruction  book  which  ac- 
companies the  machine.  The  following  suggestions  will  be  of 
assistance  to  those  who  are  unfamiliar  with  the  operation  of  the 
lock  stitch  machine:  (1)  Practice  treading  until  it  can  be  done 
easily  and  evenly;  (2)  practice  stitching,  first  on  paper  before 
the  machine  is  threaded,  then  on  material,  either  plain  or  striped; 
(3)  be  able  to  remove  the  bobbin,  thread  it,  and  replace  it, 
and  always  draw  up  the  bobbin  thread  before  beginning  to 
stitch;  (4)  practice  threading  the  machine,  and  then  stitch 
until  good  straight  lines  can  be  made;  (5)  to  turn  a  corner, 
have  the  needle  at  its  lowest  point  and  use  it  as  a  pivot;  (6) 
in  removing  the  work  from  the  machine,  have  the  needle  at 
its  highest  point,  raise  the  presser  foot,  and  draw  the  material 
back  and  to  the  left,  cut  the  threads  with  the  thread-cutter  or 
with  scissors;  (7)  where  there  is  no  cross  stitching,  always 
draw  the  ends  of  the  threads  to  the  wrong  side  and  tie  them;  (8) 
good  stitching  depends  on  several  factors:  (a)  Correct  length 
of  stitch:  The  length  should  conform  to  the  material.  Heavy 
cloth  requires  a  longer  stitch  than  does  a  thin  material.  The 
length  is  regulated  by  a  screw,  (b)  The  tension:  The  tension 
is  also  governed  by  the  material.  In  a  perfect  tension  the  bobbin 
and  the  spool  threads  lock  in  the  center  of  the  thickness  of  the 
cloth.  If  the  bobbin  thread  is  drawn  to  the  upper  side  of  the 
cloth  as  it  lies  in  the  machine,  the  tension  is  too  tight;  and  if  the 
spool  thread  is  drawn  to  the  lower  side,  the  tension  is  too  loose. 
The  tension  is  regulated  by  a  screw  which  turns  either  from 
right  to  left,  or  from  front  to  back,  (c)  The  needle:  The  needle 
should  be  the  correct  size  to  carry  the  thread  which  is  being  used. 


336  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

Be  sure  that  the  point  is  good,  and  that  the  needle  is  set  cor- 
rectly. 

PREPARATION  OF  MATERIALS 

Shrinking 

Nearly  all  cottons  and  linens  should  be  shrunken  before  being 
made  up.   Probably  the  most  satisfactory  way  is  to  place  the 

folded  piece  of  material  in  a  tub 
of  lukewarm  water  and  to  allow  it 
to  remain  in  the  water  for  about 
one  hour.  The  material  must  be 
thoroughly  wet,  even  to  the  inner- 
most fold.  The  material  should 
then  be  removed  from  the  water, 
but  not  wrung,  because  wrinkles 
will  appear  which  will  be  difficult 
to  press  out.  The  greater  the  care 
taken  in  hanging  the  material  to 
dry,  the  easier  it  is  to  press  later. 
The  material  should  be  hung  with 
the  selvage  as  straight  as  possible. 
It  should  be  ironed  just  before  it 
becomes  dry,  great  care  being  taken 
to  iron  it  with  the  warp  and  filling 
threads,  or  with  strokes  both  par- 
allel to  the  selvage  and  at  right 
angles  to  it.  It  is  most  important 
to  keep  the  warp  and  filling  straight,  to  prevent  difficulty  in 
placing  a  pattern  on  the  grain  of  the  material. 

Sponging. 

All  woolen  fabrics  should  be  sponged  to  prevent  shrinking 
and  water  spotting.  This  is  often  done  either  in  the  store,  at  a 
small  cost  a  yard,  or  at  the  factory.  In  case  it  is  necessary  to 
do  the  sponging  at  home,  a  large  table  covered  with  a  soft 
padding,  over  which  is  placed  unbleached  muslin,  is  better 
than  an  ironing-board,  as  more  surface  may  be  covered  at  one 
time.    The  covering  must  be  held  firmly  in  place  to  prevent 


Fig.  61. — Method  of  shrinking 
fullness  out  of  a  garment.  By 
means  of  two  or  three  gather- 
ing threads  the  material  is 
drawn  up  to  the  desired  size. 
A  damp  cloth  is  placed  over 
the  material,  which  is  then 
pressed  with  a  hot  iron.  It 
is  often  necessary  to  repeat 
this  process  several  times. 
If  the  material  is  to  fit  over 
a  curved  surface  such  as  the 
hip  or  the  shoulder,  a  cushion 
should  be  used  in  pressing. 


Plate  XII. — Use  of  form  in  draping  dresses  before  and  after  fitting. 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


337 


wrinkles  from  marring  the  surface  of  the  material.  The  material 
is  placed  face  down  on  the  pressing  table^  a  wet  cloth  is  laid  over 
it,  and  a  fairly  hot  iron  is  used.  After  enough  pressing  has  been 
done  to  make  the  material  nearly  dry,  the  cloth  is  removed  and 
a  final  pressing  given  directly  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  material. 
In  double-width  material  the  same  plan  may  be  followed  if  the 
face  of  the  cloth  is  folded  in.  The  steam  from  the  wet  cloth 
is  generally  sufficient  to  wet  all  the  material  unless  it  is  very 
heavy.  Both  sides  of  the  double-width  material  should  have  a 
final  pressing.  Only  a  small  portion  of  the  material  should  be 
sponged  and  pressed  at  a  time.  If  there  is  a  nap,  care  must  be 
taken  to  press  the  material  with  the  nap.  The  motion  of  the 
iron  is  not  a  long  sweep,  but  rather  a  slow  motion  of  lifting  and 
placing  the  iron. 

Occasionally  material  may  be  sponged  on  the  wrong  side  with 
a  damp  cloth,  then  hung  over  a  door  to  dry.  This  is  a  more 
simple  process  but  often  destroys  the  finish  of  the  material, 
giving  it  a  slightly  crepy  appearance. 

Pressing. 

Pressing  may  be  done  in  much  the  same  way  as  sponging, 
care  being  taken  to  lift  and  place  the  iron  rather  than  to  drag 
it  along.  The  iron  will  often  leave  a  shiny  mark  if  placed  di- 
rectly on  the  material;  therefore,  if  it  is  necessary  to  press  a 
garment  on  the  right  side  when  it  is  being  made,  a  cloth  should 
always  be  placed  between  the  garment  and  the  iron. 

A  sample  of  the  material  should  always  be  tested  for  the 
changing  of  color,  when  it  is  to  be  pressed. 

A  hot  iron  should  never  be  used  on  silk,  because  it  takes  the 
life  out  of  the  silk;  a  warm  iron  is  better.  It  is  often  a  good  prac- 
tice in  pressing  seams  of  silk  garments,  to  invert  the  iron  and 
draw  the  seams  over  the  iron.  Velvets  are  very  difficult  to  press 
and  are  more  satisfactory  if  steamed  (page  402). 

When  it  is  necessary  to  shrink  out  fullness  at  the  top  of  a 
sleeve  or  around  the  waist,  an  oval  cushion  is  essential  (Fig.  61). 
A  gathering  thread  must  be  run  in  the  full  part  of  the  gar- 
ment to  hold  the  fullness  in  place.    The  cloth  must  then  be 


338 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


dampened,  pressed,  and  dampened  again  until  the  fullness  has 
disappeared. 

HOW  TO  TAKE  MEASUREMENTS  (fIG.  62) 

Before  using  a  commercial  pattern  it  is  best  to  test  it  to  see 
whether  it  is  approximately  the  correct  size.    The  following 


Fig.  62. — Method  of  taking  measurements. 

measurements  should  be  taken  and  the  pattern  tested  by  several 
of  them.  It  is  not  necessary  to  test  the  pattern  by  all  these 
measurements,  however,  unless  the  figure  is  quite  abnormal. 
The  commercial  patterns  are  very  well  proportioned ;  therefore, 
if  the  pattern  is  correct  in  the  length  of  the  waist  and  the  bust 
measure,  it  will  generally  prove  satisfactory.    In  the  skirt  the 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


339 


test  measurements  used  are  the  waist,  the  hip-Hne  6  inches  below 
the  waist,  and  the  length  of  the  skirt  in  front. 

Waist  measurements: 

Place  a  tapeline  around  the  waist,  and  pin  it  securely.  Adjust  the  tape- 
line  until  it  is  as  nearly  parallel  to  the  floor  as  possible,  and  at  the  normal 
waist-line. 

Bust  measurement:  Place  the  tapeline  around  the  figure  over  the  fullest 
part  of  the  bust.  An  easy  measurement  is  taken  for  a  shirt-waist  and  a 
close  measurement  for  a  tight-fitting  waist.  Keep  the  tapeline  rather  high 
under  the  arms  and  straight  across  the  back. 

Width  of  back:  Measure  the  width  of  the  back  from  armhole  to  armhole. 
Divide  the  space  between  the  base  of  the  neck  and  the  waist  into  fourths. 
Measure  the  width  of  the  back  at  approximately  the  first  quarter  division 
below  the  base  of  the  neck. 

Width  of  front:  Measure  the  width  of  the  front  13^  to  2  inches  below 
the  hollow  at  the  base  of  the  neck  across  the  widest  part  of  the  chest  from 
armhole  to  armhole. 

Waist:  Take  the  measurement  around  the  waist,  keeping  the  tapeline 
as  nearly  parallel  to  the  floor  as  possible. 

Length  of  back:  From  the  bone  at  the  base  of  the  neck  in  the  back 
straight  down  to  the  lower  edge  of  the  tapeline  around  the  waist. 

Length  of  front:  From  the  center  of  the  hollow  at  the  base  of  the  neck 
straight  down  to  the  base  of  the  tapeline  placed  around  the  waist.  This 
is  a  rather  loose  measure. 

Depth  of  dart:  This  measure  is  not  often  used  except  when  testing  or 
drafting  a  tight-fitting  lining.  It  is  taken  from  the  base  of  the  neck  at  the 
center  front  in  a  slanting  line  down  to  the  point  of  the  bust.  It  averages 
from  8  to  9  inches. 

Length  of  under-arm:  Take  this  measure  carefully.  For  the  shirt-waist 
one-half  the  length  of  the  back  may  be  used;  but  when  a  more  careful 
measurement  is  necessary,  the  tapeline  is  folded  over  a  pencil  and  the  pencil 
slipped  in  under  the  arm  and  the  measurement  then  taken  to  the  bottom 
of  a  tapeline  which  is  around  the  waist.  The  shoulder  must  be  in  a  normal 
position  with  the  arm  lowered. 

Neck  or  collar  measurements: 

Base  of  neck:  This  is  a  close  measurement  taken  around  the  base  of  the 
neck.  It  is  better  to  have  this  measurement  taken  too  small  than  too 
large,  because  in  the  fitting  of  the  waist  the  neck-line  can  easily  be  made 
larger. 

Top  of  neck:  This  is  a  close  measurement  around  the  top  of  the  neck 
just  under  the  chin. 

Height  at  back:  From  the  base  of  the  neck  to  the  height  required. 

Height  at  front:  From  the  base  of  the  neck  in  front  to  the  height  re- 
quired. 


340 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Height  at  side:  Take  this  measurement  just  back  of  the  ear  from  the 
base  of  the  neck  to  the  height  required. 

Armhole  measurement:  Take  the  measurement  of  the  armhole  where 
the  arm  joins  the  body.  The  curve  of  the  hne  is  rather  deep  at  the  lower 
front,  and  is  a  practically  straight  line  in  the  back. 

Sleeve  measurements: 

Length  inside:  Take  this  measurement  along  the  inside  of  the  arm 
from  the  little  muscle  where  the  arm  joins  the  body  to  the  bone  in  the 
wrist. 

Length  outside:  From  the  point  where  the  width  of  the  back  measure 
ended,  over  the  outside  of  the  arm  to  the  elbow.  Then  bend  the  elbow 
and  take  the  measure  down  to  the  bone  in  the  wrist. 

Size  at  elbow:  Place  the  tape-measure  around  the  elbow;  bend  the  elbow, 
and  take  the  measurement  rather  closely  over  the  point  of  the  elbow. 

Wrist  size:  Close  the  hand  as  though  it  were  to  slip  through  a  small  hole 
with  the  thumb  held  in  the  palm.  Take  the  measure  then,  very  closely 
over  the  knuckles  and  thumb. 

Skirt  measurements: 

Waist:  Take  this  measurement  in  the  same  way  as  for  the  waist. 

Hip:  The  first  hip  measurement  is  generally  taken  6  inches  below  the 
waist-line.  The  second  hip  measurement  is  generally  taken  about  10 
inches  below  the  waist-line,  or  over  the  fullest  part  of  the  thigh.  These 
two  measurements  are  parallel  to  each  other  and  parallel  to  the  floor. 
There  is  generally  a  difference  of  4  to  6  inches  between  them. 

Length  of  front:  From  the  waist-line  to  the  floor,  exactly  at  the  center 
front. 

Length  of  side:  From  the  waist-line  to  the  floor,  directly  over  the  fullest 
part  of  the  hip.   The  tapeline  should  fall  at  right  angles  to  the  waist-line. 

Length  of  back:  From  the  waist-line  to  the  floor,  exactly  at  the  center 
back. 

KINDS  OF  PATTERNS 

Patterns  may  be  made  in  two  ways:  by  drafting  and  by 
modeling.  Drafting  is  impracticable  for  the  average  housewife 
but  invaluable  for  the  professional  worker,  in  that  it  develops 
a  fine  feeling  for  line.  Modeling  is  the  ideal  way  in  which  to 
obtain  a  pattern,  since  the  lines  can  be  adapted  to  each  figure; 
but  ability  to  make  patterns  in  this  way  comes  only  with  long 
experience  in  working  with  patterns  and  materials.  The  most 
practical  pattern  for  the  average  worker  is  the  commercial 
one.  These  patterns  are  being  perfected  from  year  to  year. 
It  is  now  possible  to  obtain  a  pattern  of  almost  any  size  to  fit 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


341 


the  normal  figure.  Generally  only  slight  alterations  are  neces- 
sary. 

How  to  buy  a  commercial  pattern. 

Only  patterns  of  standard  makes  which  contain  very  explicit 
guide  charts  should  be  purchased.  A  waist  pattern  for  a  normal 
figure  should  be  bought  by  the  bust  size.  If  the  bust  should 
be  abnormally  full,  it  is  still  necessary  to  buy  the  pattern  by 
the  bust  size  and  then  make  the  required  adjustments.  A  skirt 
pattern  should  be  purchased  by  the  hip  size,  unless  the  waist 
is  large  in  proportion  to  the  hips,  in  which  case  it  should  be 
bought  by  the  waist  size. 

Before  opening  a  pattern,  the  directions  on  the  outside  of  the 
envelope  should  be  read  very  carefully,  seam  allowances  being 
noted  and  also  the  marks  that  are  used  to  indicate  the  correct 
placing  of  the  pattern.  On  opening  the  envelope,  the  pieces  of 
the  pattern  should  be  looked  over  and  compared  with  the 
guide  chart.  The  pieces  of  the  pattern  to  be  used  are  then 
selected,  any  others  returned  to  the  envelope. 

How  to  test  a  commercial  pattern. 

Using  the  individual  measurements,  the  pattern  may  be  tested 
for  the  size  before  placing  it  on  the  material.  If  it  is  necessary  to 
make  many  changes,  it  is  best  to  alter  the  pattern,  cut  it  in  cam- 
bric or  unbleached  muslin,  and  then  try  it  on  to  see  that  all 
the  lines  are  right  before  cutting  it  in  the  material  for  the 
garment. 

To  test  the  pattern,  the  back  and  front  should  be  pinned 
together  along  the  line  of  the  shoulder  seams. 

Using  the  individual  measurements,  the  neck-line  is  then 
tested.  If  it  is  large,  it  may  be  adjusted  by  raising  the  neck- 
line slightly. 

With  the  shoulder  seam  still  pinned,  the  armhole  is  tested 
and  madQ  approximately  the  correct  size  by  raising  or  lowering 
the  waist  under  the  arm  and  tapering  the  line  to  the  normal  arm- 
hole.  If  this  does  not  correct  the  fault,  the  under-arm  seam  may 
be  made  deeper. 


342 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Simple  adjustments  in  commercial  patterns. 

The  accompanying  illustrations  (Figs.  63-80)  will  make  clear 
the  ordinary  adjustments  necessary  in  commercial  patterns. 
For  the  abnormal  figure,  the  garment  must  be  modeled  on  the 
figure  after  it  is  basted. 


HOW  TO  ESTIMATE  THE  AMOUNT  OF  MATERIAL 

No  definite  rules  can  be  given  for  estimating  the  necessary 
amount  of  material  for  a  garment  because  of  the  many  influenc- 


FiG.  63. — Method  of  lengthening  shirt-waist  pattern.  The  front  and  back  of 
the  waist  pattern  are  generally  cut  about  2  inches  above  the  waist-line  for 
lengthening.  For  a  figure  that  is  very  long  from  the  shoulder  to  the  lower 
curve  of  the  armhole,  the  pattern  may  be  lengthened  by  cutting  it  from 
the  armhole  to  the  center  front.  The  shirt-waist  sleeve  may  be  length- 
ened in  two  places  if  necessary,  depending  on  whether  the  arm  is  long 
from  the  shoulder  to  the  elbow  or  from  the  elbow  to  the  wrist.  The  sleeve 
pattern  is  generally  cut  about  2  inches  above  or  below  the  elbow  line. 

ing  factors,  such  as  fashion,  finish,  width,  and  design  of  the  ma- 
terial. 

Pieces  left  from  the  cutting  of  the  skirt  and  waist  may  gener- 
ally be  used  for  cutting  the  collars,  cuffs,  or  any  small  decora- 
tions. In  buying  expensive  material,  it  is  always  permissible 
to  take  the  pattern  to  the  store  and  quickly  place  it  on  the 
material  to  get  an  estimate  of  the  amount  necessary.    If  com- 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


343 


mercial  patterns  are  used,  the  amount  of  material  necessary 
for  the  making  of  the  garment  is  generally  stated  on  the  out- 
side of  the  envelope.  This  amount  is  often  over-generous. 
Experience  soon  teaches  one  the  minimum  amount  of  material 
to  buy  for  a  garment. 

For  a  skirt. 

In  estimating  the  amount  of  material  necessary  for  a  skirt, 
one  must  first  decide  on  the  width  of  the  bottom  of  the  skirt. 


Fig.  64. — Method  of  shortening  a  shirt-waist  pattern.  To 
shorten  the  pattern  a  fold  may  be  taken  about  2 
inches  above  the  waist-Hne.  To  shorten  the  sleeve  a 
fold  may  be  taken  about  2  inches  above  or  below  the 
line  of  the  elbow  depending  on  the  proportion  of  the 
arm. 

In  plain  material,  as  many  full  lengths  of  the  material  will  be 
required  as  the  number  of  times  the  measure  of  the  width  of 
the  cloth  is  contained  in  the  measure  of  the  width  of  the  bottom 
of  the  skirt.  This  is  a  very  generous  allowance,  because  often 
in  placing  gores,  especially  on  plain  material  with  no  up  or 
down,  they  may  be  fitted  in  so  that  much  less  material  need 
be  used.  It  is  often  helpful  in  estimating  the  amount  of  ma- 
terial needed,  to  place  the  pattern  on  a  table  in  the  position 
for  cutting  material  of  a  definite  width. 

For  a  waist. 

In  general,  once  the  length  of  the  front,  measured  from  the 
point  of  the  shoulder  nearest  the  base  of  the  neck,  to  the  waist- 
line, and  once  the  length  of  the  back  from  the  same  point  on 


344 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


the  shoulder  to  the  waist-Une,  plus  once  or  twice  the  outside 
length  of  the  sleeve,  will  give  an  idea  of  the  amount  of  material 
required. 

HOW  TO  PLACE  THE  PATTERN  ON  THE  MATERIAL 

After  the  pattern  has  been  altered  and  tested,  or  after  it  has 
been  cut  in  inexpensive  material  and  modeled  to  the  figure, 


Fig.  65. — Method  of  cutting  and  opening  a  shirt-waist  pat- 
tern to  throw  in  fullness.  This  method  of  putting 
more  fullness  into  a  shirt-waist  pattern  also  increases 
the  length  of  the  shoulder.  The  line  of  opening 
should  extend  through  about  the  center  of  the  shoulder. 
It  is  often  necessary  to  increase  the  size  of  the  arm- 
hole  to  make  it  correspondingly  larger.  The  sleeve 
may  be  opened  along  the  center. 


it  is  ready  to  be  placed  for  cutting  on  the  material.  A  few 
general  rules  are  here  given  but  there  are  many  exceptions  to 
them. 

1.  Observe  on  the  outside  of  the  pattern  envelope  or  on  the  guide  chart 
contained  in  the  envelope,  the  allowance  for  seams.  In  the  case  of  the 
modeled  pattern  allow  for  seams,  since  the  pattern  has  been  cut  apart 
exactly  on  the  line  of  basting.  In  case  the  seam  allowances  have  not  been 
made,  allow  at  least  3/8  inch  on  material  which  does  not  fray,  and  more 
on  material  that  frays  badly.  If  the  pattern  has  not  been  used  before, 
it  is  a  wise  precaution  to  make  an  allowance  of  at  least  1  inch  on  all  fitting 
seams,  such  as  the  shoulder  seam  and  the  under-arm  seam  of  the  waist, 
and  the  seams  of  the  skirt  which  fall  over  the  fullest  part  of  the  body.  In 
making  the  extra  allowance  on  the  skirt  seams,  begin  at  the  waist-line  and 
taper  down  to  the  original  allowance  at  a  point  from  12  to  14  inches  below 
the  hip-line. 


B  a 

02 

2  s 


.22  a 

03  c3 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


345 


2.  Spread  the  material  out  as  much  as  possible,  and  place  the  entire 
pattern  on  it,  in  order  to  determine  the  most  economical  way  of  cutting. 
This  is  always  advisable  for  economy  in  cutting,  and  if  it  is  necessary  to 
piece  the  garment,  the  piecing  may  be  planned  to  come  in  the  least  con- 
spicuous place. 

3.  If  the  material  is  easily  cut  and  does  not  slip  when  several  thicknesses 
are  cut  at  one  time,  it  may  be  folded  end  to  end  and  most  of  the  pieces 
may  be  cut  double.  Care  must 
always  be  taken  not  to  cut  two 
pieces  for  the  same  side.  This 
difficulty  may  be  obviated  by 
placing  the  two  right  sides  or 
the  two  wrong  sides  of  the  ma- 
terial together  when  cutting  it. 
Then,  when  the  two  pieces  of 
material  are  taken  apart,  one  is 
for  the  right  side  and  the  other 
for  the  left.  Folding  the  ma- 
terial together  is  not  always  the 
most  economical  scheme,  for 
often  the  parts  of  the  pattern 
may  be  fitted  into  irregular 
places  if  cut  singly. 

4.  Always  place  the  largest 
pieces  of  the  pattern  first  with 
the  largest  end  of  the  pattern 
toward  the  cut  end  of  the 
goods.  This  is  economical  be- 
cause it  leaves  the  irregularly 
shaped  pieces  attached  to  the 
large  piece  of  the  goods.  Often 
the  smaller  pieces  of  the  pattern  may  then  be  fitted  into  these  irregular 
pieces,  which  would  be  useless  if  detached. 

5.  Observe  carefully  the  nap  or  design  of  the  material,  placing  the 
pattern  so  that  the  design  runs  in  the  same  direction,  on  all  the  pieces. 
The  nap  generally  runs  down,  but  velvet  and  velveteen  are  exceptions  to 
this  rule.  Different  color  effects  are  produced  if  the  surface  of  the  material 
does  not  reflect  the  light  in  the  same  way. 

6.  A  conspicuous  design  in  the  material,  such  as  a  plaid,  must  be  identical 
on  the  two  sides  of  the  garment  to  prevent  destroying  the  balance  or  in- 
troducing undesirable  lines.  Most  important  of  all  is  keeping  the  grain  of 
the  material  identical  on  both  sides  of  the  garment;  otherwise  the  set  of 
the  garment  will  not  be  bi-symmetric. 

7.  After  the  pattern  has  been  placed  in  the  most  economical  manner, 
pin  it  carefully,  trying  not  to  lift  the  material  and  the  pattern  from  the 


Fig.  66. — Method  of  increasing  or  decreas- 
ing the  bust  measure  of  a  shirt-waist 
pattern  without  increasing  the  length  of 
the  shoulder.  The  opening  should  ex- 
tend from  the  bottom  of  the  waist  in  a 
straight  line  to  the  deepest  curve  of  the 
armhole.  In  the  front  it  is  often  better 
to  make  two  slashes  than  to  spread  one 
slash  too  far.  This  method  of  adjust- 
ment necessitates  lowering  the  armhole 
and,  if  the  second  slash  is  made,  slightly 
lowering  the  tip  of  the  shoulder  near 
the  armhole. 


346 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


table  when  pinning  them.  Do  not  use  too  many  pins;  they  not  only  take 
time  to  place,  but  they  often  make  noticeable  holes  in  the  material,  es- 
pecially in  silks. 

8.  The  actual  position  of  the  pattern  on  the  goods  depends  largely  on 
the  pattern.  When  using  a  commercial  pattern,  read  the  directions 
carefully,  and  then  locate  the  indicating  marks  which  show  the  lengthwise, 
the  crosswise,  and  the  fold  of  the  material.  These  indicating  marks  should 
be  followed  carefully. 

For  using  a  modeled  pattern,  or  a  pattern  without  indicating 
marks,  the  following  guides  are  offered  : 


Fig.  67. — Method  of  decreasing  the  size  of  a  shirt-waist 
pattern.  Instead  of  cutting  and  spreading  a  pattern 
as  in  Fig.  65,  the  size  should  be  decreased  by  making 
a  fold  in  the  pattern. 


1.  Lines  of  a  simple  pattern  generally  placed  on  the  straight  lengthwise 
grain,  or  the  lengthwise  fold,  of  the  material: 
In  a  waist: 

a.  Center  front 

b.  Center  back 
In  a  sleeve: 

Along  the  outer  fold  when  the  seam  edges  are  brought  together.  Any 
sleeve  after  being  basted  should  lie  perfectly  flat  when  folded. 
In  a  yoke  or  collar: 

a.  Center  front  or  center  back  of  yoke  or  collar.  The  center  back  of  a 
waist  yoke  or  collar  is  generally  cut  on  the  lengthwise  fold,  although  often 
the  lower  front  edges  are  cut  on  the  straight  grain,  causing  a  bias  seam  in 
the  center  back. 

b.  In  a  skirt  yoke  there  may  be  all  sorts  of  combinations  in  cutting. 
Probably  the  most  successful  way  is  to  cut  the  material  with  the  straight 
grain  in  the  center  back  and  the  center  front,  giving  a  bias  seam  over  the 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


hip.  Sagging  may  be  disguised  by  making  the  yoke  longer  over  the  hip, 
if  this  gives  a  becoming  hne.  The  bottom  hne  of  a  skirt  yoke  must  be 
carefully  considered  with  reference  to  the  figure.  Avoid  allowing  the 
lower  edge  to  fall  in  a  straight  line  around  the  fullest  part  of  the  body. 
Either  an  irregular  yoke-line  or  the  hne  joining  a  front  or  back  panel  is 
generally  more  becoming. 
In  a  cuff : 

The  direction  of  the  grain  of  the  material  in  the  cuff  depends  greatly 
on  the  design  of  the  waist  and  of  the  material.  For  beauty  of  design,  the 
cuff  is  generally  cut  with 
the  lengthwise  grain  running 
with  the  depth  of  the  cuff ; 
for  greater  strength,  how- 
ever, the  cuff  is  cut  with 
the  lengthwise  grain  running 
from  fastening  to  fastening. 

In  a  skirt: 

a.  Center  of  front  panel. 
Generally  the  front  edge  of 
each  succeeding  gore,  in  order 
that  a  straight  edge  may  be 
sewed  to  a  bias  edge.  This 
method  will  help  to  keep  a 
skirt  from  sagging.  In  skirts 
of  two  gores  the  center  of 
each  gore  is  often  placed  on 
the  straight  lengthwise  fold. 

b.  If  a  rounding  or  tube- 
like effect  is  desired  in  a  skirt 
of  many  gores,  the  center  of 
each  gore  is  placed  on  the 
straight  lengthwise  grain  of 
the  material. 

When  great  strength  is  desired,  the  lengthwise  grain  of  the  material  is 
always  used.  Skirt-bands,  apron-bands,  neck-bands,  bands  in  all  under- 
garments, and  cuffs,  are  cut  with  their  longest  measurement  on  the  length- 
wise grain  of  the  material. 

2.  Lines  of  a  simple  pattern  placed  on  the  straight  crosswise  grain  of 
the  material: 

In  a  shirt-waist: 

a.  Width  of  the  chest 

b.  Width  of  the  back 

c.  Waist-line  of  the  under-arm  piece  of  a  tight-fitting  waist 
In  a  sleeve: 

Generally  around  the  fullest  part  of  the  arm. 


348  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


In  cuffs: 

Depth  of  the  cuff,  when  the  design  of  the  waist  requires  it. 
In  yokes: 

Depth  of  the  yoke,  when  the  design  of  the  waist  requires  it. 
In  skirts: 

Skirts  are  seldom  made  with  a  construction  hne  falhng  on  the  crosswise 
grain  of  the  material.  For  children's  dresses  and  for  fancy  silk  dresses,  a 
skirt  is  occasionally  made  on  the  crosswise  grain  of  the  material.  Chiffons, 
georgette  crepe,  net,  or  voile,  on  which  there  is  a  beautiful  selvage  edge, 
is  often  draped  on  the  crosswise  grain,  and  thus  the  making  of  a  hem  finish, 
which  is  often  cumbersome  on  very  light-weight  materials,  is  avoided. 


HOW  TO  MARK  A  GARMENT  FOR  BASTING 

After  the  pattern  is  placed,  the  seara  allowance  and  other 
necessary  points  should  be  marked  by  one  of  the  suggested 

methods.  The  points  or 
lines  generally  marked  are: 
(1)  waist  line;  (2)  seams 
along  the  edge  of  a  modeled 
pattern,  or  along  the  indi- 
cated line  on  a  commercial 
skirt  or  waist  pattern;  (3) 
neck-line;  (4)  armhole;  (5) 
center  front  of  waist  and 
skirt;  (6)  center  back  of 
waist  and  skirt;  (7)  waist- 
hne  of  skirt;  (8)  hip-line; 
(9)  hem-line;  (10)  length- 
wise center  of  sleeve;  (11) 
points  indicating  decora- 
tions, plaits,  tucks,  and 
gathers;  and  (12)  notches. 
The  notches  for  the  join- 


FiG.  69. — Method  used  in  modeling  gar- 
ments  over   a  flat  pattern.    A,  the 

paper  pattern  is  pinned  together  at  the  jng  of  seams  should  be  indi- 
shoulder  seam  and  the  hnes  marked        i   j  u         +     i      P  4-U 

showing  the  design  to  be  followed;  B,  ^ated  by  a  tack  of  thread 
the  resulting  waist  designed  on  the  or  a  chalk  mark,  never  by 
original  pattern.  cutting  the  notch,  since  this 

often  ruins  the  final  finish  of  a  seam  and  does  not  allow  for 
an  increase  in  the  size  of  the  garment,  if  this  is  necessary. 


Fig.  70. — Adjusting  pattern  to  fit  shoulders.  ^,  Altera- 
tion necessary  for  very  square  shoulders.  It  is  often 
necessary  to  fit  in  the  shoulder  seam  at  the  base  of 
the  neck.  This  seam  should  slope  very  gradually 
into  the  old  shoulder  seam  at  the  tip  of  the  shoulder. 
This  adjustment  often  necessitates  the  lowering  of  the 
neck-line  in  both  the  back  and  the  front.  B,  Altera- 
tion necessary  for  very  sloping  shoulder.  It  is  nec- 
essary to  take  in  the  shoulder  seam  slightly  at  the 
tip  of  the  shoulder  near  the  armhole.  The  new  seam 
should  slope  very  gradually  to  the  old  shoulder  seam 
at  the  base  of  the  neck.  This  alteration  necessitates 
lowering  the  armhole. 


Fig.  71. — Simple  adjustment  of  sleeve  pattern.  A,  Method  of  increasing  a 
sleeve  pattern  at  the  bottom.  B,  Method  of  adjusting  a  shirt-waist  sleeve 
pattern  to  make  a  close-fitting  sleeve  at  the  bottom  without  changing  the 
size  at  the  top.  A  dart  may  be  folded  in  the  under  side  of  the  sleeve,  taking 
out  the  excess  fullness.  This  dart  should  extend  from  the  bottom  of  the 
sleeve  about  to  the  elbow.  The  dart  should  fall  nearer  to  the  outside  line  of 
the  sleeve  than  to  the  seam.  C,  Method  of  decreasing  the  fullness  in  a 
sleeve.  To  take  fullness  out  of  the  top  of  a  sleeve,  fold  a  plait  at  the  top 
along  the  center  line,  and  let  this  plait  decrease  to  nothing  as  it  approaches 
the  bottom  of  the  sleeve. 


350 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


The  tracing  wheel  marks  two  thicknesses  of  material  at  once 
and  is,  therefore,  a  great  convenience.  It  cannot  be  used  on  all 
kinds  of  material,  however,  for  on  very  thick  material  the  per- 


FiG.  72. — Method  of  cutting  collars  for  fiat  or  rolling  ef- 
fect. The  more  nearly  the  neck-line  of  a  collar  ap- 
proaches a  circle,  the  flatter  the  collar  will  lie.  The 
curve  for  a  collar  should  always  be  straightened 
slightly  to  fit  the  back  of  the  neck. 


forations  do  not  show,  and  on  very  soft  material  the  markings 
destroy  the  surface  finish  or  threads. 

Tailor's  chalk  may  be  bought  at  the  notion  counter  of  any 
dry  goods  store.  The  chalk  marks  only  one  surface  at  a  time, 
and  the  marks  may  become  obliterated  before  time  to  use  them. 
On  some  materials  they  are  very  difficult  to  erase. 

Tailor's  basting  is  a  very  satisfactory  way  of  marking  mate- 
rials. It  requires  more  time  than  the  other  methods,  but  is 
more  lasting  and  may  be  done  through  two  thicknesses.  A 


Fig.  73. — Changing  length  or  width  of  skirt  pattern.  A,  Method  of  lengthening. 
The  pattern  may  be  cut  at  a  point  about  opposite  the  knee,  and  spread 
as  desired.  B,  Method  of  shortening.  The  tuck  may  be  taken  in  a  pattern 
about  opposite  the  knee.  If  the  pattern  is  simply  folded  up  at  the  bottom 
to  shorten  it,  a  great  deal  of  fullness  is  removed.  C,  Method  of  increasing 
the  width  of  a  skirt  pattern. 


A 


Fig.  74. — Increasing  waist  or  hip  size  of  a  skirt  pattern.  A,  Method  of  in- 
creasing the  size  of  the  waist  and  the  hips  of  a  gored  skirt  pattern.  B, 
Method  of  increasing  the  size  of  the  waist  without  increasing  the  size  of 
the  hips.  C,  Method  of  increasing  the  size  of  the  hips  without  increasing 
the  waist  size. 


352 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


long  double  thread  is  taken  to  make  this  tacking.  Along  the  line 
which  is  to  be  marked,  even  basting  stitches  should  be  taken, 
leaving  a  generous  loop  of  thread  between  each  stitch.  The 
pattern  .should  be  folded  back  when  one  is  marking  lines  in- 
dicated by  perforations  in  the  pattern.  The  two  edges  of  the 
material  should  be  separated  and  the  threads  cut  halfway  be- 
tween the  edges.  This  leaves 
a  marking  line  of  stitches  and 
ends  along  both  edges  of  the 
material. 

Tailor's  tacks  are  made  in 
much  the  same  way  as  tailor's 
basting.  At  a  point  where  a 
mark  is  desired,  a  stitch  about 
3^  inch  long  is  taken  leaving 
an  end  of  thread.  Over  this 
stitch  another  stitch  should  be 
taken  leaving  a  loop  of  thread. 
The  thread  is  then  cut  from 
the  material  leaving  another 
end.  The  two  pieces  of  ma- 
terial are  separated,  and  the 
joining  threads  cut,  leaving  a 
mark  on  each  piece. 

HOW  TO  CUT  A  GARMENT 

-r,  ,   ,    ,   ,       .      ,        In  using  a  standard  com- 

FiG.  75. — Method   of  decreasing  the  .  ,        ,  ,  i  •  i    x i 

size  of  the  hips  of  a  gored  skirt  mercial  pattern  on  which  the 

pattern  without  decreasing  the  size   seam  allowance  is  made,  the 

of  the  waist.  material  should  be  cut  close  to 

the  edge  of  the  pattern.  In  using  a  modeled  pattern,  the  mater- 
ial may  be  cut  at  the  correct  distance  from  the  seam  markings, 
a  tapeline  or  cardboard  measure  being  used  to  indicate  the 
distance  until  the  eye  becomes  trained.  If  tailor  tacking  has 
been  used,  the  two  pieces  of  the  pattern  should  be  pulled  apart, 
and  the  threads  cut,  care  being  taken  not  to  shake  the  parts  of 
the  garment  and  thus  lose  the. marking  threads.   As  soon  as  the 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


353 


various  parts  are  cut,  they 
are  folded  carefully  to  prevent 
stretching  the  very  bias  edges. 
When  working  on  material  that 
stretches  badly,  it  is  often  a 
good  plan  to  baste  a  piece  of 
selvage  or  tape  along  the  more 
bias  edges,  until  that  part  is 
permanently  sewed.  This  is 
true  of  the  neck-line  and  arm- 
hole  of  the  waist,  and  also  of 
the  center  back  and  the  waist- 
line of  the  skirt. 

HOW   TO    BASTE   A  SIMPLE 
GARMENT 

Too  much  basting  is  almost 
worse  than  too  little.  It  not 
only  pulls  the  material  and 
makes  it  unyielding,  but  it  is 
very  time-consuming.  If  pins 
are  skillfully  placed,  much  of 
the  tiresome  basting  may  be 
omitted. 

Holding  the  material  with 
seam-marking  on  seam-mark- 
ing, the.  pins  should  be  placed 
at  right  angles  to  the  line  to  be 
made  by  the  stitching.  If  pins 
are  so  placed,  the  basting  thread 
will  not  tangle  around  them, 
and  they  are  easily  removed 
on  the  machine  without  being  I 


Fig.  76. — Method  of  adjusting  a  skirt 
pattern  for  a  person  who  has  a 
prominent  abdomen  or  hips.  For 
the  former,  the  adjustment  is  made 
on  the  gores  toward  the  front;  for 
the  latter,  on  the  gores  toward  the 
back,  A  small  tuck  of  not  more 
than  3^  inch  is  taken  at  the  back 
of  the  gore  a  few  inches  below  the 
hip-line  and  allowed  to  run  to 
nothing  at  the  front  of  the  gore. 
It  is  necessary  to  straighten  the 
back  edge  of  the  gore  after  mak- 
ing this  adjustment.  As  this  is 
somewhat  difficult,  it  is  better  if 
made  on  the  figure. 

if  the  seam  is  to  be  stitched 


General  rules  for  basting. 

1.  In  basting  garments  of  any  size,  keep  the  work  on  a  table  or  a  lap- 
board  as  much  as  possible.   For  very  long  seams,  such  as  are  in  a  skirt,  the 


354 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


basted  edges  will  be  much  flatter  if  they  are  placed  perfectly  flat  on  a 
table  and  kept  so  while  being  basted. 

2.  When  basting  two  edges  together,  the  worker  should  always  keep 
the  more  bias  edge  towards  her. 

3.  When  basting  a  gathered  part  to  a  straight  edge,  the  worker  should 
always  hold  the  gathered  part  towards  her.  If  an  especially  good  hne  on 
the  straight  edge  is  desired,  the  work  may  be  held  with  the  straight  piece 
toward  one,  as  is  often  done  when  basting  in  a  sleeve. 

4.  In  basting  bias  edges,  such  as  the  edge  of  a  gore,  start  the  basting 
opposite  the  widest  end  of  the  gore,  if  possible.  In  this  way,  the  hand  will 
not  ravel  or  push  off  the  warp  threads. 

To  baste  a  shirt-waist  or  other  simple  waist, 

1.  Baste  and  stitch  all  flat  decorations,  such  as  tucks,  plaits,  and  set-in 
lace,  before  basting  the  seams. 

2.  Pin  the  seams  before  basting  them,  bringing  together  the  correspond- 
ing points,  such  as  the  waist- 


lines and  armholes-  of  each. 
Whether  the  waist  is  basted  with 
the  seams  on  the  right  or  wrong 
side  depends  on  the  kind  of  fin- 
ished seam  to  be  used.  In  the~ 
case  of  a  tight-fitting  waist,  the 
seams  are  basted  on  the  wrong 
side  in  order  that  the  lines  in 
the  waist  may  be  carefully  ob- 
served when  the  garment  is  tried 
on. 

3.  In  basting  together  parts 
of  a  simple  waist,  begin  with  the 
under-arm  seam.  Pin  the  parts 
together  at  the  waist-line,  keep 
the  tracing  or  tailor  tacking  of 


Fig.  77.-Another  method  of  adjusting  a  the  front  and  the  back  together, 
gored  skirt  pattern  for  a  figure  with  and  pm  the  seam  to  the  armhole 
prominent  abdomen.  and  down  to  the  bottom  of  the 

peplum.    Baste  the  seam  from 

the  waist-line  up  to  the  armhole  and  from  the  waist-line  down  to  the  bottom 

of  the  peplum,  using  an  even  basting  stitch. 

If  a  yoke  is  to  be  used,  read  the  directions  under  section  4.    Baste  the 

shoulder  seams  first  and  spread  the  garment  out  perfectly  flat  on  the  table. 

Pin  the  yoke  into  place,  and  baste  it.   Then  baste  the  under-arm  seam  as 

already  directed. 

For  a  tight-fitting  waist,  pin  the  side-front  seam  from  the  waist-line  up 
toward  the  point  of  the  bust,  and  from  the  shoulder  seam  down  toward 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


355 


the  same  point.  This  brings  a  shght  fullness  at  the  correct  place  over  the 
fullest  part  of  the  bust.  Divide  this  fullness  through  a  space  of  about 
2  inches.   Adjust  the  shoulder  seams  last  in  this  type  of  waist. 

4.  Pin  the  shoulder  seams  together,  first  matching  the  markings  of  the 
neck-hne  and  then  the  armhole.  Baste  the  seams,  holding  the  back  of  the 
waist  toward  you.   It  is  often  necessary  to  stretch  the  front  slightly  to  fit 


Fig.  78. — Method  of  adding  material  to  a  gored  skirt 
pattern  to  form  a  tuck  at  the  seam. 


the  back.  This  is  desirable,  since  the  waist  will  then  naturally  spring  down 
to  fit  the  curve  of  the  shoulder. 

To  haste  sleeves. 

For  a  shirt-waist  sleeve,  make  the  placket  and  apply  it  before  basting 
the  sleeve.  The  placket  is  generally  placed  about  1  inch  back  of  the  center 
fold,  made  by  folding  the  sleeve  along  the  seam.  After  the  placket  has 
been  placed  and  stitched,  the  seam  of  the  sleeve  is  basted  and  stitched, 
and  the  cuff  is  sewed  on.  In  adjusting  the  gathers  at  the  bottom  of  the 
sleeve,  leave  the  sleeve  without  gathers  for  a  space  of  about  1  inch  on  each 
side  of  the  seam.   Gather  the  sleeve  to  fit  the  cuff. 

For  a  simple  cuff  or  a  French  cuff,  place  the  two  right  sides  of  the  cuff 


356 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


together,  and  stitch  the  cuff  across  the  two  ends  and  the  bottom.  Then 
miter  the  corners  to  remove  the  excess  material.  Turn  the  cuff  right  side 
out,  crease  it  very  sharply  around  the  edge,  and  baste  it  perfectly  flat.  • 
Across  the  top  turn  in  14  inch  toward  the  wrong  side  along  both  the  right 
and  the  wrong  side  of  the  cuff,  and  baste  down  this  allowance.  Fold  the 
cuff  from  end  to  end,  and  locate  the  center.  One  inch  toward  the  end  of 
the  cuff  which  is  to  be  sewed  to  the  back  of  the  sleeve,  place  the  seam  of 


Fig.  79. — Designing  narrow  or  full  circular  skirt  pattern.  A,  Method  of  placing 
a  six-gore  pattern  for  a  slightly  circular  skirt  with  gathers  at  the  waist-line. 
In  cutting  a  skirt  of  this  kind,  a  seam  may  be  placed  in  the  center  front, 
center  back,  or  over  the  hips,  as  desired.  B,  Method  of  placing  a  six-gore 
pattern  to  make  a  circular  skirt  full  at  the  bottom  and  fitting  smoothly 
at  the  waist-line  and  hips.  The  gores  may  be  spread  apart  and  uneven 
amounts  of  fullness  thus  thrown  in. 

the  sleeve.  Insert  the  gathered  sleeve  between  the  upper  edges  of  the  cuff, 
pinning  the  indicated  points  together.  Pin  the  gathers  toward  the  front 
and  the  back  of  the  cuff,  adjusting  them  as  suggested,  and  allowing  the 
placket  of  the  sleeve  to  remain  perfectly  smooth.  Baste  the  right  side  of 
the  cuff  to  the  sleeve.  Turn  the  sleeve  to  the  wrong  side,  and  baste  the 
inner  side  of  the  cuff  in  place  1/16  inch  above  the  outside  basting  in  order 
that  the  inside  will  be  caught  by  the  stitching  from  the  right  side.  Stitch 
entirely  around  the  cuff  1/16  inch  from  the  edge.  Stitch  again  across  the 
top  34  inch  below^  the  first  row  of  stitching. 

For  a  close-fitting  sleeve  finished  with  a  facing,  baste  the  sleeve  and  try 
it  on  before  stitching  and  finishing  the  bottom. 

For  a  shirt  sleeve,  one  similar  to  the  sleeve  of  a  man's  shirt  without  gathers 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


357 


at  the  top,  baste  the  sleeve  into  the  waist  before  either  the  seam  of  the 
sleeve  or  the  under-arm  seam  of  the  waist  is  joined.  In  this  case  the 
placket  may  be  applied  before  the  sleeve  is  set  in,  but  the  cuff  cannot  be 
placed. 

To  baste  in  a  shirt-waist  or  a  coat  sleeve: 

The  following  scheme  of  locating  the  sleeve  proves  satisfactory  for 
almost  any  type  of  sleeve.  This  is  of  course  only  a  general  rule,  since  all 
sleeves  must  finally  be  adjusted  to  the  person  if  they  are  to  be  truly  artistic. 


Fig.  80. — Method  of  cutting  a  pattern  for  a  circular  flounce.  Fit  together  the 
gores  of  a  six-gore  skirt  on  top  of  a  paper;  trace  around  the  lower  edge  of 
the  skirt,  the  center  front,  the  center  back,  and  across  the  skirt  where  the 
flounce  is  to  be  attached;  remove  the  pattern  and  cut  along  the  tracing; 
from  the  bottom  slash  the  flounce  to  within  3^  inch  of  the  top  of  the  flounce, 
and  spread  it  apart  as  desired.  This  flounce  is  very  circular  unless  it  is 
divided  into  sections,  and  if  this  is  done,  they  should  be  so  placed  that  a 
straight  edge  falls  on  a  bias  edge  as  in  a  skirt. 

1.  Measure  1  inch  back  of  the  shoulder  seam  at  the  armhole.  Using 
this  as  the  dividing  point,  fold  the  armhole  in  half.  The  point  opposite 
this  first  point  is  the  point  at  which  to  place  the  seam  of  the  sleeve. 

2.  Pin  the  seam  of  the  sleeve  in  place. 

3.  Bring  the  shoulder  seam  of  the  waist  down  to  the  under-arm  seam 
of  the  waist,  and  fold  the  armhole  flat.  The  two  points  thus  located  on 
the  sides  of  the  armhole  are  the  points  between  which  the  gathers  of  the 
sleeve  should  be  adjusted. 

4.  Pin  the  sleeve  in  place,  working  from  the  seam  towards  each  of  the 
points  located.  Then  pin  the  remainder  of  the  sleeve,  holding  the  fullness 
easily  between  these  two  points.    If  there  is  too  much  fullness  to  pin  in 


358 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


place,  gather  it  with  one  thread  on  the  tracing,  and  a  second  thread  sHghtly 
below,  or  toward  the  cuff  of  the  sleeve. 

5.  Adjust  the  gathers  to  fit  the  armhole,  making  the  center  of  the  sleeve 
fall  in  a  perfectly  straight  line  from  the  highest  point  of  the  shoulder. 
If  the  gathers  are  allowed  to  fall  forward  rather  than  backward,  a  slight  cup 
is  formed  in  the  front  of  the  sleeve  to  fit  over  the  point  of  the  shoulder. 

6.  Pin  and  baste  the  entire  sleeve  in  place. 

To  haste  a  collar  or  other  decorations. 

Baste  all  parts  of  the  waist  as  far  as  possible,  in  order  that  they  may  be 
ready  to  try  on  after  this  first  basting,  and  thus  avoid  repeated  fittings. 

To  baste  a  skirt. 

Pin  the  hip-lines,  waist-lines,  and  hem-lines  of  the  gores  together.  Place 
as  many  pins  as  necessary  between  these  points.  If  it  is  necessary  to  baste 
the  skirt  before  trying  it  on,  observe  the  general  rules  (page  353).  If  the 
skirt  is  simple,  it  may  be  turned  at  this  time  on  the  line  of  the  hem,  and 
the  hem  may  be  basted  into  place.  This  will  give  a  better  feeling  when  the 
skirt  is  first  tried  on.  At  the  placket  extend  the  basting  of  the  seam  on  each 
side,  in  order  that  a  good  line  for  the  fitting  may  be  observed.  The  placket 
is  generally  about  12  inches  deep. 

If  a  tuck  opening  is  desired  or  a  seam  stitched  on  the  outside,  the  gore 
edge  or  center  front  of  the  skirt  is  generally  turned  toward  the  wrong  side 
on  the  line  of  marking,  basted  if  necessary,  and  then  pressed.  The  gore 
to  which  this  edge  is  to  be  sewed  is  then  placed  perfectly  flat  on  the  table 
and  the  pressed  edge  of  the  first  gore  placed  just  to  the  line  of  marking  on 
the  second  gore.  The  waist-line,  the  hip-lines,  and  the  hem-lines  of  the 
gores  must  be  made  to  coincide.  Pin  the  gores  carefully  in  place,  and  baste 
them. 

In  basting  darts  in  a  skirt,  begin  at  the  point  of  the  dart  and  work 
toward  the  waist.  Care  must  be  taken  to  keep  both  sides  of  the  dart 
smooth.  When  observed  on  the  right  side,  the  dart  should  form  a  line  at 
right  angles  to  the  waist-line  or  a  line  with  a  slightly  outward  curve  like 
the  curve  of  the  body.  Darts  should  not  be  cut  open  until  after  the  fitting. 

KINDS  OF  SEAMS  FOR  GARMENTS 

Many  kinds  of  seams  are  possible  in  the  various  types  of  gar- 
ments, some  practical  and  some  decorative  as  well.  In  this 
short  discussion  of  the  processes  in  dressmaking  it  will  be  im- 
possible to  explain  how  each  kind  of  seam  is  made.  In  order 
to  recall  the  different  types  of  seams  the  following  outline  is 
made.  The  kind  of  seam  to  be  used  in  making  a  garment  should 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


359 


be  decided  before  the  garment  is  basted  together,  in  order  to 
avoid  unnecessary  basting. 

For  underwear  and  plain  dresses:  Plain  seam;  French  seam;  stitched  fell; 
hemmed  fell;  overhand  fell. 

For  lingerie  dresses  and  waists:  French  seam;  hemmed  fell;  seam  made 
with  entre-deux;  standing  fell;  rolled  seam. 

For  tailored  wool  or  silk  garments:  French  seam;  stitched  fell;  welt  seam; 
double-stitched  welt;  cord  seam;  plain  seam;  slot  seam;  strapped  seam; 
lapped  seam. 

For  silk  and  fine  wool  dresses:  Plain  seam;  plain  seam  bound;  plain  seam 
made,  edges  turned  to  wrong  side  and  sewed  together  with  running  stitch; 
piquot  edge. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  A  FOUNDATION  BELT 

For  a  dress  or  a  skirt  with  a  raised  waist-line,  a  ribbed  belting 
or  a  cambric  belting  stiffened  with  stays  of  featherbone  should 


Fig.  81. — Method  of  making  a  foundation  belt  for  a  skirt  or  a  dress.  Two 
end  finishes  are  shown. 


be  used.   This  belting  should  be  as  wide  as  the  distance  above 
the  waist-line  at  which  the  line  of  the  skirt  is  desired  to  appear. 
If  the  belt  is  wide,  it  may  be  fitted  with  darts  (Fig.  81).  The 
darts  may  extend  from  one  edge  of  the  belting  to  the  other, 
the  greater  depth,  about  }4  inch,  being  in  the  center  of  the  belt- 
ing, if  one  wishes  the  belt  to  extend  slightly  below  the  waist- 
line.  Or  the  dart  may  be  taken  deep  at  the  top  and  allowed  to 
I  taper  to  nothing  at  the  bottom,  if  the  entire  belt  is  to  drop  below 
I  the  waist-line.    These  darts  should  be  on  the  side  of  the  belt 
'  placed  next  to  the  body.     The  ends  of  the  belting  are  then 
j  turned  in  and  a  sufficient  number  of  hooks  and  eyes  sewed  on  to 


360 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


hold  the  belt  in  good  position.  The  hooks  should  be  sewed  to 
the  right-hand  end  of  the  belt  and  on  the  wrong  side,  the  bill 
of  the  hook  being  set  Vie  inch  back  from  the  end  of  the  belting. 
The  eyes  should  extend  beyond  the  edge  of  the  belting  at  the 
left-hand  end  the  same  distance  that  the  hooks  are  slipped 
back.  The  two  ends  of  the  belt  will  exactly  meet  when  it  is 
hooked.  The  unfinished  ends  of  the  belting  and  the  stitching 
holding  the  hooks  and  eyes  in  place  is  covered  with  a  piece  of 
taffeta  seam-binding  (Fig.  81) ;  or  if  there  is  any  excess  material 
on  each  end  it  may  be  folded  back  3^  inch  on  the  outside; 
then  the  folded  edge  should  be  brought  up  under  the  bill  of  the 
hook  on  one  end  and  over  the  loop  of  the  eyes  on  the  other  end 
and  hemmed  into  place.  This  last  method  of  finishing  the  belt 
is  very  substantial  but  makes  a  much  thicker  finish.  The  center 
front,  the  center  back,  and  the  sides  of  the  belt  should  then  be 
marked  with  colored  thread  in  order  to  facilitate  adjusting  the 
garment  on  the  figure. 

PITTING  GARMENTS  (PLATES  XII  AND  XIII) 

Two  fittings  for  a  simple  garment,  such  as  a  house-dress,  a 
plain  shirt-waist,  or  a  skirt,  should  be  sufficient,  if  the  garment 
has  been  properly  prepared  and  the  fitting  is  carefully  done. 
Generally  it  is  not  necessary  to  fit  more  than  the  right  side  of  a 
simple  garment  unless  there  is  a  great  difference  between  the 
right  and  left  sides  of  the  figure.  Too  much  fitting  destroys  the 
crisp  freshness  of  new  material. 

To  be  properly  prepared  for  the  first  fitting,  a  dress  should 
have  the  seams  basted,  the  sleeves  basted  into  place,  and  the 
following  markings  or  bastings,  placed: 

On  the  skirt:  (1)  Placket;  (2)  hem-line  of  the  skirt,  if  possible;  (3)  center 
front;  (4)  center  back;  (5)  hip-line,  6  inches  below  the  waist-line;  (6)  waist- 
line, either  raised  or  normal. 

On  the  belt:  (1)  Center  front;  (2)  center  back. 

On  the  waist:  (1)  Center  front;  (2)  center  back;  (3)  neck-line;  (4)  arm- 
hole  line,  if  the  sleeve  is  not  basted  in;  (5)  waist-line;  (6)  two  gathering 
threads  at  the  waist-line,  one  3^  inch  below  the  other. 

On  the  sleeve:  (1)  Finished  length;  (2)  two  gathering  threads  in  the 
bottom  of  the  sleeve,  one  on  the  tracing  and  one  34  inch  below  the  tracing; 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


361 


and  gathering  threads  should  also  appear  in  the  top  of  the  sleeve  between 
the  indicated  places;  (3)  line  of  finishing  at  the  arm-hole  of  the  waist; 
(4)  the  point  of  the  elbow  in  a  tight-fitting  sleeve. 

With  these  marks  it  should  be  very  easy  to  adjust  the  waist 
and  the  skirt  to  the  figure. 

Directions  for  fitting  a  shirt-waist  or  a  house-dress. 

Place  the  fitted  or  made  belt  on  the  figure,  being  sure  that  the  center 
back  is  at  the  center  back  of  the  figure. 

Settle  the  waist  well  to  the  figure,  and  pin  it  at  the  center  front  exactly 
on  the  indicating  lines. 

Turn  the  shoulder  and  under-arm  seams  toward  the  front. 

Make  a  general  survey  of  the  waist  before  proceeding  further. 

If  the  shoulders  of  the  figure  are  very  square  or  very  sloping,  alterations 
will  probably  be  necessary  (Fig.  70).  If  the  shoulders  are  very  square, 
the  waist  is  hkely  to  be  lifted  too  much  at  the  point  of  the  shoulder,  causing 
wrinkles  across  the  waist.  To  correct  this  defect,  take  the  shoulder  seam 
deeper  near  the  neck  (Fig.  70),  and  cut  away  the  surplus  material.  This 
may  make  the  neck  too  small.  If  so,  cut  the  neck-hne  larger  by  slashing 
it  slightly  until  the  correct  size  is  obtained. 

If  the  shoulders  are  very  sloping,  the  waist  drops  at  the  end  of  the 
shoulder  causing  winkles  from  the  neck  to  the  armhole.  To  correct  this 
defect,  take  up  the  shoulder  seam  at  the  point  of  the  shoulder  (Fig.  70). 
Then  enlarge  the  armhole  by  cutting  away  the  material  under  the  arm. 
Taper  it  both  in  the  front  and  back  to  the  normal  armhole.  The  shoulder 
seam  should  be  about  1  inch  back  of  the  highest  point  of  the  shoulder.  If 
this  seam  is  too  far  back,  it  will  narrow  the  back  of  the  waist;  if  too  far 
forward,  it  will  give  the  shoulders  a  rounded  appearance.  A  yoke-line 
should  drop  well  forward  from  the  normal  shoulder-line.  This  adjustment 
depends  entirely  on  the  figure  fitted. 

In  general,  the  collar-line  should  run  in  a  good  curve  from  the  bone  at 
the  base  of  the  neck  in  the  back  to  above  the  two  small  bones  at  the  front 
of  the  neck.  Keep  the  neck-line  close  to  the  neck  and  rather  high  at  the 
side  just  under  the  ear,  unless  the  neck  is  very  short,  in  which  case,  the 
side  of  the  neck-line  may  be  lowered  slightly  to  give  more  length. 

If  the  neck-line  is  too  large,  take  up  the  shoulder  seam.  The  fullness 
must  never  be  taken  out  in  the  center  front  by  lapping.  This  would  cause 
the  grain  of  the  material  to  slope  downward  toward  the  center  front. 
In  a  tight-fitting  lining  a  dart  is  sometimes  taken  in  the  center  front,  to 
make  the  neck-line  smaller  and  to  take  out  extra  fullness  over  the  chest. 
Taking  up  the  shoulder  seams  may  necessitate  lowering  the  armhole. 

The  under-arm  seam  should  appear  to  be  a  continuation  of  the  shoulder 
seam  and  should  fall  from  the  center  under-arm  straight  down  to  the  waist- 
line.   If  it  is  desired  to  narrow  the  appearance  of  the  back  width  at  the 


362 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


waist-line,  the  under-arm  seam  may  be  slanted  slightly  toward  the 
back. 

Adjust  the  fullness  around  the  waist-line  next.  Pin  the  waist  to  a  stif- 
fened belt  if  it  is  to  be  a  part  of  a  dress,  or  to  a  non-elastic  tape,  if  it  is  to 
be  a  separate  garment.  In  either  case  the  adjusting  is  about  the  same. 
Pin  the  center  back  of  the  waist  to  the  center  back  of  the  belting  at  either 
the  normal  waist-line  or  the  raised  waist-line,  depending  on  whether  a 
skirt  is  to  be  made  or  not.  Locate  the  under-arm  seams,  and  pin  them  to 
the  belting.  Pin  the  center  front  of  the  waist  to  the  center  front  of  the 
belt.  Draw  the  gathering  threads  tight,  and  adjust  the  fullness.  To  most 
figures  a  slight  blousing  is  becoming.  As  far  as  possible,  keep  the  lines 
made  by  the  gathering  at  right  angles  to  the  waist-line.  This  gives  the 
figure  a  straight  appearance. 

If  the  waist  is  too  tight  over  the  bust,  it  may  be  made  slightly  larger  by 
letting  out  the  under-arm  seam;  or  in  case  the  waist  is  being  fitted  in 
practice  material,  fullness  at  the  bust  may  be  allowed  as  shown  in  Figs. 
65  and  66. 

The  armhole  line  is  one  of  the  most  important  lines  in  the  waist.  From 
the  point  of  the  shoulder,  the  line  should  drop  almost  straight  to  the  front 
muscle  of  the  arm.  The  line  then  curves  to  fit  the  underarm  as  closely  as  is 
comfortable  and  forms  a  nearly  straight  line  along  the  armhole  at  the  back. 

The  greater  amount  of  fullness  in  the  sleeve  should  fall  over  the  shoulder 
bone  which  in  most  cases  is  from  M  to  13^  inches  in  front  of  the  shoulder 
seam.  The  straight  lengthwise  grain  of  the  material  should  fall  straight 
down  from  the  highest  point  of  the  shoulder.  If  the  sleeve  is  too  large  or 
too  small,  it  should  be  changed  at  the  seam.  Observe  the  length  of  the 
sleeve,  and  try  on  the  cuff.  If  the  sleeve  puffs  slightly  at  the  back  even 
when  the  elbow  is  bent,  take  the  seam  in  the  sleeve  deeper,  but  not  the  seam 
of  the  waist. 

If  a  collar-band  is  to  be  used,  it  should  be  tried  on  at  this  time. 

A  shirt-waist  should  fit  loosely  but  smoothly.  Overfitting  takes  away 
from  the  informal  grace  and  style  of  the  waist.  After  a  plain  shirt-waist 
has  been  satisfactorily  adjusted,  an  excellent  plan  is  to  rip  it  apart  and 
either  cut  a  new  pattern  or  correct  the  old  one  from  it.  If  this  is  done, 
much  difficult  fitting  may  be  avoided  at  another  time. 

After  the  waist  has  been  fitted  and  before  the  sleeve  has  been  removed, 
mark  both  the  sleeve  and  the  waist  so  that  they  will  go  together  again 
without  difficulty.  Mark  on  the  belt  the  points  at  which  the  under-arm 
seams  fall,  and  also  the  line  of  the  waist. 

Re-baste  the  sleeve,  finish  the  waist  as  nearly  as  possible  at  the  bottom, 
and  again  baste  it  into  the  waist.  Baste  the  collar-band  into  place,  or  if 
a  fancy  collar  is  to  be  used,  baste  it  together,  and  try  it  on  at  the  next 
fitting.   Pin  the  waist  again  to  the  foundation  belt. 

Place  the  waist  on  the  figure,  and  make  any  final  adjustments. 

Try  the  skirt  on  at  this  time.   Place  it  on  the  figure  right  side  out,  and 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


363 


adjust  it  to  the  figure.  Pin  the  center  front  of  the  skirt  to  the  center  front 
of  the  belting,  and  the  center  back  of  the  skirt  to  the  center  back  of  the 
belting.  The  lines  of  all  darts  and  gores  may  be  more  easily  observed  if 
the  skirt  is  right  side  out,  although  the  fitting  is  made  more  difficult. 
Pin  up  the  skirt  exactly  on  the  indicated  lines  of  the  placket.  Only  the 
right  side  of  the  skirt  need  be  fitted,  but  the  whole  skirt  should  be  pinned 
to  the  foundation  belt. 

After  adjusting  the  skirt  to  the  foundation  belt,  take  a  general  survey 
of  the  skirt,  noting  the  lines  of  the  gores.  The  skirt  should  fit  smoothly 
from  the  waist-line  to  the  hip-line,  and  below  the  hip  it  should  fall  in 
straight  lines.  All  dart  and  seam  lines  should  be  at  right  angles  to  the 
line  of  the  waist.  The  skirt  should  not  stand  out  from  the  figure  in  one 
place  more  than  in  another.  If  this  should  be  the  case,  turn  to  the  illus- 
trations of  pattern  adjusting  (Figs.  74-77),  and  alter  the  skirt  as  there 
suggested. 

The  hip-line  and  the  line  at  the  bottom  of  the  skirt  should  be  parallel 
to  each  other  and  to  the  floor.  In  the  case  of  a  figure  with  prominent  hips, 
the  skirt  may  stand  out  at  the  sides.  This  may  often  be  remedied  by 
dropping  the  skirt  slightly  from  the  waist-line  over  the  hip. 

Simple  fitting  may  be  done  by  increasing  or  decreasing  the  depth  of  the* 
seams;  however,  care  must  be  taken  to  keep  all  lines  of  folds,  placket,  seams, 
or  darts  at  right  angles  to  the  waist-line. 

After  the  skirt  has  been  fitted  satisfactorily,  always  straighten  both  the 
hip-line  and  the  finishing  line  at  the  bottom  of  the  skirt. 

Observe  the  waist-line  very  carefully  to  see  that  the  waist  blouses  suffi- 
ciently for  the  arms  to  be  raised  easily,  and  also  that  the  line  made  by 
the  joining  of  the  waist  and  the  skirt  is  becoming.  The  waist-line  should 
either  be  parallel  to  the  floor  or  dip  slightly  in  front. 

Remove  the  garment  from  the  figure,  and  mark  all  alterations  and  lines 
necessary  for  the  second  adjustment  of  the  garment.  Finish  the  waist 
except  perhaps  the  final  adjustment  of  some  decoration,  and  fasten  it  to 
the  foundation  belt.  Rebaste  the  skirt  and  finish  the  placket,  and  again 
baste  it  to  the  foundation  belt. 

Try  on  the  garment  for  the  final  fitting.  Adjust  any  decoration,  such 
as  coflar,  belt,  or  pockets.  Note  all  lines,  and  turn  the  garment  at  the 
bottom.   Finish  the  garment,  without  further  fitting. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  A  SKIRT  EVEN  AT  THE  BOTTOM 

The  following  ways  of  making  a  skirt  even  at  the  bottom  are 
suggested : 

1.  Put  the  skirt  on,  and  place  a  yardstick  perpendicular  to  the  floor 
and  close  to  the  body.  Mark  the  skirt  at  the  top  of  the  yardstick.  Turn 
around,  keeping  the  yardstick  at  the  same  distance  from  the  body,  and 
mark  points  around  the  skirt  at  the  top  of  the  yardstick.    This  gives  a 


364  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


line  parallel  to  the  floor.  Spread  the  skirt  out  on  a  table,  and  measure 
down  at  right  angles  to  this  line  the  correct  number  of  inches  to  make 
the  skirt  the  desired  length. 

2.  Chalk  the  end  of  a  yardstick  or  ruler.  Open  the  lower  drawer  of  a 
dresser  far  enough  to  hold  the  stick,  and  keep  the  stick  as  nearly  parallel 
to  the  floor  as  possible.  Walk  up  to  the  end  of  the  stick,  and  turn  slowly 
letting  the  chalked  end  of  the  stick  mark  the  skirt.  Spread  the  skirt  on  a 
table,  and  measure  down  from  this  chalked  line  the  correct  number  of 
niches  to  make  the  skirt  the  desired  length. 

HOW  TO  KEEP  BIAS  SEAMS  FROM  SAGGING 

After  a  skirt  has  been  basted  and  stitched,  it  is  well  to  allow  it 
to  hang  for  a  number  of  days  in  order  to  sag  as  much  as  it  will. 
It  may  then  be  hemmed,  and  it  will  stay  even  for  some  time. 
If  seams  are  stayed  with  a  very  firm  piece  of  material,  such  as 
tape  or  selvage,  they  may  creep  up,  or  the  bias  material  at 
each  side  of  the  seam  may  sag  down.  Better  than  to  use  a 
•straight  edge,  is  to  use  a  binding  on  a  different  bias  from  that 
of  the  seam.  This  will  keep  the  seam  from  sagging,  but  it  will 
be  sufficiently  elastic  to  make  a  graceful  seam. 

SUGGESTIVE  FINISHES  TO  BE  USED  BY  THE  HOME  WORKER 

Cuffs  and  collars. 

The  material  in  the  cuffs  and  the  collar  should  be  the  same, 
and  both  the  cuffs  and  the  collar  should  have  the  same  general 
shape.  For  example,  if  the  corners  are  rounded  on  the  collar 
the  same  type  of  corner  should  appear  on  the  cuffs.  The  best 
shape  for  the  opening  of  the  collar  and  the  best  outline  depend 
entirely  on  the  figure  and  the  shape  of  the  face. 

The  cuffs  and  collar  may  be  made  of  a  texture  contrasting 
with  that  of  the  dress  but  of  a  color  harmonizing  with  it,  A 
garment  is  always  more  interesting  if  some  contrast  is  intro- 
duced. The  possible  combinations  of  textures  and  colors  with 
a  gown  depend  to  a  great  extent  on  the  personality  of  the  wearer. 
For  example,  one  person  may  look  well  in  white  linen  collars 
and  cuffs  on  a  blue  serge  dress,  while  another  person  who  may 
be  less  tailored  in  appearance  or  whose  complexion  may  be  less 
clear,  finds  it  necessary  to  wear  georgette  collars  and  cuffs 
to  prevent  the  transition  from  the  dress  to  the  collar  to  the  com- 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


365 


plexion  from  being  too  pronounced.  Therefore,  the  smallest 
part  of  decoration  must  be  studied  in  relation  to  the  person  who 
is  to  wear  the  garment. 

Some  suggestive  combinations  of  materials  are  as  follows: 

To  he  used  with  wool: 

1.  Georgette  crepe  will  keep  the  gown  all  in  a  suede-like  texture  if 
combined  with  a  dull  material  such  as  serge.  It  is  a  most  becoming  texture, 
because  the  light  of  its  surface  is  broken  up,  and  it  is  thin  enough  to  allow 
the  color  of  a  dark  gown  to  be  seen  through  it,  thus  producing  a  gradual 
transition  from  the  gown  to  the  complexion.  This  is  true  of  any  of  the 
thin  materials. 

2.  Chiffon  is  more  appropriate  than  Georgette  crepe,  for  formal  ma- 
terials such  as  broadcloth;  it  is  more  formal  but  not  so  universally 
becoming. 

3.  Wash  satin.  The  texture  of  wash  satin  causes  it  to  reflect  the  light 
in  large  masses,  and  in  itself  it  is  very  attractive.  Since  it  is  of  a  rather 
heavy  texture,  it  makes  a  harsh  contrast  between  the  dress,  the  collar, 
and  the  complexion.  It  should  be  studied  carefully  with  the  gown  and 
the  person  who  is  to  wear  it,  before  being  chosen. 

4.  Organdie  or  swiss  is  a  little  more  crisp  than  Georgette  crepe  and  not 
so  universally  becoming.  It  gives  a  very  fresh  appearance  to  almost  any 
wool  gown  excepting  those  made  of  the  more  formal  materials,  such  as 
broadcloth. 

5.  Voile  or  handkerchief  linen. 

6.  Linen  or  pique.  Either  linen  or  pique  is  very  becoming  to  some 
persons  but  makes  so  harsh  a  contrast  with  the  complexion  that  it  is  not 
becoming  to  all. 

7.  Novelty  materials  such  as  cretonne  and  suede,  should  be  studied 
carefully  before  being  combined  with  the  average  dress. 

8.  Broadcloth  and  serge.  Woolen  materials  such  as  broadcloth  and 
serge  make  interesting  collars  but  add  to  the  warmth  of  the  garment. 

To  he  used  with  silks: 

1.  Georgette  crepe.  2.  Chiffon.  3.  Panne  velvet.  4.  Bolting  cloth. 
5.  Organdie.   6.  Net. 

To  he  used  with  cottons  and  linens: 

1.  Linen.  2.  Pique.  3.  Poplin.  4.  Voile.  5.  Plain  gingham  or  chambray, 
with  plaid  material. 

Suggestive  edge  finishes  for  cuffs  and  collars: 

1.  Machine  hemstitching  or  piquot.    2.  Bias  binding.   3.  Hem  turned 
to  right  side  and  held  in  place  by  a  simple  embroidery  stitch  (Fig.  82). 
4.  Hand  scalloping.    5.  Scalloped  hem.    6.  Scalloped  facing.    7.  Rolled 
hem  made  with  colored  threads.   8.  Very  small  crocheted  edge.  9.  Footing. 


366 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


10.  Bermuda  fagoting.  11.  Hemstitching.  12.  Wide  facing  of  contrasting 
material.    13.  Decorative  machine  stitching. 

Waist-line  finishes. 

The  following  waist-line  finishes  may  be  used  for  the  top  of 
the  skirt  when  it  is  sewed  over  the  waist  on  the  foundation  belt. 


-joooooaooocx 


Fig.  82. — Combinations  of  simple  embroidery  stitches  to 
be  used  in  decorating  collars,  cuffs,  aprons,  and  dresses. 

1.  The  skirt  may  be  turned  }4  inch  to  the  wrong  side  and  basted  along 
the  waist-line.   It  is  then  stitched  1/8  inch  below  the  edge. 

2.  If  an  outside  belt  is  to  be  used  with  the  dress,  the  unfinished  edge  of 
the  skirt  may  be  placed  on  the  waist-line  and  stitched  into  place.  Taffeta 
seam-binding  is  then  stitched  over  the  unfinished  edges. 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


367 


3.  The  skirt  may  be  finished  with  an  inserted  cord  or  piping  of  the  same 
or  a  contrasting  texture.  In  using  piping  or  cord  finishes,  care  must  be 
taken  not  to  create  an  unbecoming  fine  or  introduce  too  many  definite  fines. 
Color  and  texture  must  be  considered. 

Finishes  for  the  bottom  of  the  skirt. 

The  following  finishes  may  be  used  for  the  bottom  of  skirts, 
overskirts,  or  flounces : 

1.  Hem.  The  skirt  may  be  hemmed  by  hand  or  on  the  machine.  In 
!  wool  or  silk  it  is  generally  preferable  to  have  the  hem  slip-stitched  into 

place. 

2.  Hem  with  one  turning.  The  raw  edge  of  the  material  may  be  catch- 
stitched  into  place  and  covered  with  Prussian  binding.  Any  surplus  full- 
ness may  be  shrunken  out,  gathered,  or  placed  in  darts  which  must  fall 
at  right  angles  to  the  line  of  stitching.  This  kind  of  hem  is  often  used  in 
material  which  does  not  fray  easily. 

3.  Fancy  hem.  The  hem  may  be  turned  to  the  right  side  and  finished 
with  a  cord  or  piping;  it  may  be  held  in  place  by  decorative  machine 
stitching;  or  it  may  be  scalloped. 

4.  Facing  or  false  hem. 

5.  Bindings  of  various  widths. 
;      6.  Machine  hemstitching. 

I      7.  Piping  or  cording. 

!      Simple  designs  in  embroidery. 

\  '  Simple  designs  is  embroidery  suitable  for  finishing  cuffs  and 
i  collars,  holding  hems  in  place,  and  decorating  belts  and  pockets 
j  are  shown  in  Fig.  82. 

I      Set-in  pocket. 

The  set-in  pocket,  suitable  for  shirt-waists,  sport  skirts, 
and  middy  blouses,  is  shown  in  Fig.  83. 

Bound  buttonholes. 

Bound  buttonholes  also  have  their  decorative  value  and  are 
shown  in  Fig.  84. 

Arrows. 

If  it  is  desired  to  use  arrows,  the  making  may  be  seen  from 
Fig.  85. 


368  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


3! 


Fig.  83. — Set-in  pocket.  The  binding  piece  must  be  made  twice  as  long  as  the 
desired  depth  of  the  pocket,  plus  the  amount  of  material  to  be  used  in  the 
binding.  This  may  be  of  a  contrasting  color  or  material,  or  a  small  piece 
of  color,  enough  to  bind  the  cut,  may  be  placed  between  the  garment  and 
the  pocket  lining,  stitched  into  place,  and  later  fastened  to  the  lining. 
A,  Marking  the  garment  for  the  pocket.   B,  Marking,  basting,  and  stitch- 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


369 


SUITABLE  Materials  for  various  types  of  dresses  and  waists 
For  house-dresses:  Gingham,  chambray,  linen,  poplin,  crepe. 
For  business  or  street  dresses:  Serge,  poplin,  gabardine,  fine  twilled  ma- 
terial, dull  satin. 

For  formal  dresses:  Broadcloth,  velvet,  cr^pe  de  chine,  satin,  messahne, 
taffeta,  charmeuse,  chiffon,  georgette  crepe,  crepe  meteor. 

For  afternoon  dresses:  Batiste,  swiss,  voile,  dimity,  novelty  material, 
linen,  crepe  de  chine,  pussy  willow  taffeta,  crepe  meteor,  challis,  nun's 
veiling,  wool  crepe,  henrietta. 

For  shirt-waists:  Tub  silk,  heavy  china  silk,  habutai,  madras,  flannel, 
linen. 

For  fancy  waists:  Handkerchief  linen,  voile,  batiste,  georgette  crepe, 
soft  taffeta,  chiffon. 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  ECONOMY  IN  DRESS 

It  will  be  found  economical  to  select  one  color  for  a  season 
and  choose  garments  that  will  harmonize.  A  definite  portion 
of  the  income  should  be  set  aside  for  clothing  and  this  amount 
should  not  be  exceeded. 

It  is  economy  to  buy  the  very  best  possible  material.  Fewer 
clothes  may  be  bought  if  necessary,  but  the  material  and  texture 
should  be  good.  Well-made  garments  that  are  bought  are 
expensive;  garments  of  equal  quality  can  be  made  at  home 
more  cheaply,  if  a  woman  is  skillful  and  if  her  time  is  not  more 
valuable  spent  in  some  other  way. 

MAKING  SIMPLE  UNDERGARMENTS    (jULIA  GLEASON) 

When,  making  or  buying  undergarments,  the  points  to  con- 
sider are  simphcity  and  durability  of  materials  and  design, 

ing  the  hning  into  place.  The  right  side  of  the  lining  is  placed  to  the  right 
side  of  the  garment,  then  basted  and  stitched.  It  is  often  better  to  taper 
the  corners  in  stitching,  if  the  material  is  at  all  heavy.  C,  Right  side  of 
garment.  The  lining  is  pulled  through  to  the  wrong  side  and  adjusted  as 
in  the  bound  buttonhole.  The  upper  and  lower  edges  of  the  pocket  should 
be  basted  to  hold  the  material  in  place.  D,  The  pocket  is  stitched  on  the 
machine  close  to  the  edge  of  the  garment  along  the  two  ends  and  across 
the  lower  side.  E,  The  lower  end  of  the  pocket  is  brought  to  the  upper  end 
on  the  wrong  side  of  the  garment  and  the  two  sides  and  ends  stitched 
together  and  overcasted.  F,  The  garment  is  turned  to  the  right  side,  and 
the  top  of  the  pocket  stitched  across  to  correspond  with  the  other  stitching. 
Arrows  may  be  used  at  the  ends  of  the  pockets  to  cover  any  fulling  of  the 
cloth. 


F 


Fig.  84. — Method  of  making  a  bound 
buttonhole,,  which  may  be  used 
also  for  decoration.  A,  Marking 
the  line  for  the  buttonhole.  B, 
Basting  the  binding  directly  over 
the  mark  for  the  hole.  The  right 
side  of  the  binding  is  placed  to  the 
right  side  of  the  material.  This 
binding  may  be  cut  on  the  bias 
or  straight,  about  1  inch  longer 
than  the  hole  and  about  1  inch 
wide.  C,  Stitching  firmly  around 
the  mark  for  the  hole,  about  l/g 
inch  above  and  below  the  line  of 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


371 


with  special  reference  to  their  laundering  qualities.  Cheap 
trimming  is  not  in  good  taste,  nor  does  it  wear  well.  Trimmings 


Fig.  85. — Method  of  making  an  arrow,  a  suitable  finish  for  the  ends  of  seams 
darts,  plaits,  bound  buttonholes  and  set-in  pockets. 

of  the  same  material  as  the  undergarment  save  expense  and 
produce  attractive  results. 


Muslin:  Heavy,  firm  cotton  material  of  plain  weave;  very  durable. 

Long  doth:  Firm,  closely- woven  cotton  material  with  slightly  fuzzy  sur- 
face; finer  than  muslin,  very  durable,  but  difficult  to  work  on  by 
hand. 

Cambric:  Light-weight,  plain  cotton  material  of  varying  degrees  of  fine- 
ness; soft,  smooth  finish;  wears  and  launders  well. 

Nainsook:  Sheer,  light-weight  cotton  material,  loosely  woven,  of  varying 
degrees  of  fineness;  plain  weave  or  crossbar;  suitable  for  fine  underwear. 

Crepe:  Soft,  crinkled  cotton  material;  ironing  unnecessary. 

Rippleette:  Soft  cotton  material  with  plain  and  crinkled  stripes;  ironing 
unnecessary. 

Gingham:  Colored  cotton  material,  striped,  checked,  or  plain;  suitable 
for  underskirts  to  wear  with  dark  dresses. 

Sateen:  Soft,  smooth-fmished  cotton  material,  white  or  colored,  with 
twill  weave;  looks  somewhat  like  satin. 

Silk:  Skinner's  satin  (silk  or  cotton  back),  lining  satins,  taffeta,  crepe-de- 
chine,  and  the  like;  used  chiefly  for  underskirts  to  be  worn  with  wool  and 
silk  dresses. 

Flannel:  Cotton  or  wool;  used  for  warm  underskirts  and  nightgowns. 
Linen:  Handkerchief  linen  or  linen  lawn;  sheer,  cool  material;  makes 
dainty  garments  but  creases  and  wrinkles  easily. 

marking.  D,  The  buttonhole  is  cut  along  the  line  of  marking  through 
the  facing  and  the  garment.  At  the  ends  the  material  is  cut  diagonally 
towards  each  corner,  as  close  to  the  stitching  as  possible.  E,  Wrong  side 
of  garment.  Pull  the  binding  through,  the  ends  first,  letting  them  form 
an  inverted  plait  just  opposite  the  cut,  leaving  only  a  roll  at  the  ends  on 
the  right  side.  Adjust  the  sides  of  the  binding  so  that  the  two  edges  just 
fill  the  buttonhole.  F,  Turn  in  the  binding  and  hem  or  slipstitch  it  into 
place,  taking  great  care  not  to  catch  through  to  the  right  side.  G,  Finished 
buttonhole.    Careful  pressing  is  necessary  after  each  step. 


Materials  suitable  for  undergarments 


372 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Trimings  suitable  for  undergarments 
Trimmings  should  correspond  in  fineness  with  the  material 

on  which  they  are  placed;  they  should  be  simple  in  design  and 

sparingly  used.  A  very  little  good  lace  is  far  better  than  a  great 

deal  of  cheap  lace. 

Laces  {edges ^  insertions,  headings), — The  following  laces  are 

satisfactory  for  undergarments: 

1.  Valenciennes,  or  Val,"  a  fine  cotton  lace  made  by  hand  and  imitated 
by  machine.  It  may  be  made  with  a  round  mesh,  German  Val;  a  diamond 
mesh,  French  Val;  or  a  square  mesh,  Fillet  Val.  Valenciennes  laces  are 
suitable  for  nainsook  or  fine  linen  undergarments,  but  they  do  not  wear 
very  well  when  used  with  heavier  materials.  In  general,  round  and  diamond 
mesh  laces  wear  better  than  do  square  mesh  laces. 

2.  Cluny,  a  linen  lace  made  by  hand  and  imitated  by  machine,  varying 
in  fineness  of  thread  and  design.  Cluny  laces  are  suitable  for  nainsook, 
linen,  and  cambric  undergarments;  the  heavier  qualities  may  be  used  on 
heavier  materials.   Thej^  are  very  durable. 

3.  Torchon,  a  linen  lace  made  by  hand  and  machine,  suitable  for  all 
kinds  of  undergarments  and  very  durable. 

4.  Crochet,  a  handmade  lace  of  cotton  or  linen  thread  of  varying  de- 
grees of  fineness.  Certain  typical  patterns  made  in  Ireland  are  called  Irish 
crochet.  Crocheted  laces  are  suitable  for  fine  undergarments  when  made 
of  fine  thread  and  in  dainty  design.  Clumsy,  coarse  yokes  and  edges  of 
poor  design  are  unattractive,  particularly  when  seen  through  sheer  outer 
garments;  they  are  too  rough  to  be  comfortable  when  used  on  a  nightgown. 

5.  Fillet,  a  square-mesh,  linen,  handmade  lace,  imitated  by  machine. 
It  is  suitable  for  fine  undergarments. 

6.  Footing,  a  net  trimming  with  finished  edges  like  insertion.  It  is 
suitable  for  casings  on  fine  underwear. 

Tatting  is  a  hand  trimming  made  with  a  shuttle  from  thread 
of  varying  degrees  of  fineness.  It  is  an  attractive  trimming  for 
simple  undergarments. 

Embroideries  {edges,  insertions,  headings). — Embroideries  of 
various  kinds  are  suitable  for  any  type  of  undergarment.  Entre- 
deux  is  a  seam  beading. 

Bias  hands,  bindings,  and  facings. — Plain,  inexpensive,  dur- 
able trimming  may  be  made  of  bias  bands,  bindings  and  facings. 

Braid. — Featherstitched  finishing  braid  or  scalloped  braid 
makes  a  simple,  effective  trimming  for  plain  undergarments. 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


373 


Hand  embroidery. — French  embroidery,  or  satin  stitch,  and 
decorative  stitches,  such  as  featherstitching,  chainstitching, 
and  the  Hke,  may  be  used  on  fine  hnen  or  nainsook  undergar- 
ments when  time  is  not  an  object. 

Machine  hemstitching. — Machine  hemstitching  is  effective 
for  sewing  in  yokes,  holding  gathers  in  place,  and  the  hke.  It 
is  done  at  most  sewing  machine  agencies  for  a  small  price  a 
yard. 

Construction  of  undergarments 
Before  making  undergarments,  a  good  commercial  pattern 
of  the  correct  size  should  be  bought,  and  the  amount  of  material 
that  the  pattern  directs  purchased.  The  directions  should  be 
read  carefully,  and  the  garment  cut  accordingly.  The  gar- 
ment must  be  basted  and  fitted  carefully,  because  patterns  are 
not  exactly  correct  for  every  type  of  figure. 

Seams  suitable  for  undergarments. 

The  following  kinds  of  seams  are  suitable  for  undergarments : 

1.  Plain  seam  (Figs.  86,  87),  the  joining  of  two  edges  with  one  row 
of  stitching.  The  edges  may  be  finished  by  overcasting  them  together  or 
separate,  by  binding  them  together  or  separate,  or  by  turning  them  under 
and  stitching  them. 

2.  French  seam  (Fig.  88),  a  seam  within  a  seam.  A  narrow  seam  is 
sewed  on  the  right  side  of  the  garment,  then  turned  to  the  wrong  side, 
and  a  second  stitching  made  just  far  enough  from  the  edge  to  conceal  the 
raw  edges  of  the  first  seam. 

3.  Fell  or  felled  seam,  a  flat,  smooth  seam.  There  are  various  kinds  of 
fells: 

A  hemmed  fell  (Fig.  89)  may  be  used  in  handmade  garments.  A  plain 
seam  is  made  on  the  wrong  side.  One  edge  is  trimmed  narrower  than 
the  other,  and  the  wider  edge  is  creased  over  the  narrower.  The  seam  is 
then  laid  flat  and  the  folded  edge  hemmed  down  to  the  material. 

A  stitched  fell  is  a  tailored  seam.  A  plain  seam  is  sewed  on  the  right  side. 
One  edge  is  trimmed  narrower  than  the  other.  The  seam  is  laid  flat  and 
basted  and  stitched  down  to  the  material. 

A  flannel  fell  (Fig.  91)  is  used  in  flannel  garments.  A  plain  seam  is 
sewed  on  the  wrong  side.  One  edge  is  trimmed  narrower  than  the  other. 
The  seam  is  laid  flat  and  the  raw  edge  catch-stitched  down  to  the  material. 

A  standing  fell  is  used  to  sew  a  gathered  edge  to  a  plain  edge.  The 
gathered  edge  is  first  sewed  to  the  plain  edge  in  a  plain  seam  on  the  wrong 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


I 

I 
i 


Fig.  86.- 


-Plain  seam  with  edges  overcast.   Fig.  87. — Plain  seams.    Left,  pinked 

edges;  right,  bound  edges. 


1 

i-  ^  , 

U  A 

1 

Fig.  88. — French  seam. 


Fig.  89.— Hemmed  fell. 


Fig.  90. — Overhanded  or  French  fell. 


Fig.  91.— Flannel  fell. 


side  of  the  material,  the  plain  edge  extending  beyond  the  gathered  edge 
and  the  line  of  stitching  coming  on  the  line  of  gathering.  A  narrow  fold 
is  made  on  the  plain  edge  and  folded  a  second  time  so  that  the  first  folded 
edge  just  covers  the  line  of  stitching.  It  is  then  basted  and  hemmed  or 
stitched  into  place. 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


375 


Uses  of  seams  on  undergarments. 

Undergarments  may  be  made  with  various " kinds  of  seams: 
For  a  corset-cover  or  combination,  the  under-arm  and  shoulder 
seams  may  be  hemmed  fells,  stitched  fells,  or  French  seams; 
for  drawers  and  bloomers,  the  seams  of  the  leg  and  crotch  may 
be  hemmed  fells,  stitched  fells,  or  French  seams;  for  a  night- 
gown, the  under-arm  seam  and  the  seam  of  the  sleeve  may  be 
hemmed  fells,  stitched  fells,  or  French  seams,  the  armhole 
seam  may  be  a  plain  seam  bound,  or  seam  beading  may  be 
used  with  a  standing  fell  and  French  seam,  or  a  stitched  fell 
may  be  used  in  men's  nightshirts;  for  a  white  cotton  underskirt, 
a  stitched  fell  or  a  French  seam  may  be  used;  for  a  sateen  or 
silk  underskirt,  a  stitched  fell,  or  a  French  seam  may  be  used, 
or  the  edges  of  a  plain  seam  may  be  overcast,  bound,  or  opened, 
turned  under,  and  stitched;  for  a  flannel  underskirt,  a  flannel 
fell  may  be  used,  or  a  plain  seam  may  be  opened  and  each 
edge  catch-stitched  down  to  the  garment. 

Top  finishes  for  corset-cover ,  combination,  or  gown.  (Plates 
XIV  and  XV). 

The  fullness  at  the  top  of  corset-covers,  combinations,  or 
gowns  may  be  arranged  by: 

1.  Gathering,  (a).  The  neck  may  be  finished  with  embroidery  ribbon 
beading,  and  lace  edge,  the  gathers  set  into  the  beading  with  a  standing 
fell  (page  373),  and  the  lace  whipped  to  the  beading  by  hand,  (b)  The 
edge  may  be  gathered  twice,  and  finished  with  featherstitched  finishing 
braid  and  lace  edge  or  tatting,  or  with  bias  facing  or  binding  which  may 
be  featherstitched  by  hand.  (c)  The  neck  may  be  finished  in  either  of 
the  ways  just  suggested  without  being  gathered.  It  may  be  drawn  up 
with  tape  or  ribbon,  (d)  The  edge  of  the  garment  may  be  rolled  and 
gathered  and  whipped  to  lace  beading  and  edge,  (e)  Wide  lace  edge 
may  be  appliqued  to  the  garment  on  the  line  of  the  gathering,  and  fin- 
ished with  seam  beading  and  a  casing  of  either  batiste  or  footing  for 
ribbon. 

2.  Hand  tucks.  Hand  tucks  1/16  inch  wide  and  23^  to  3  inches  long 
may  be  used  in  several  groups  or  in  one  large  group.  Featherstitching, 
chainstitching,  and  lazy  daisies  may  be  used  in  simple  designs  between 
the  groups  of  tucks.  The  neck  may  be  finished  with:  (a)  a  French  hem, 
embroidery,  beading,  and  lace  edge,  (b)  embroidery  edging  used  as  a 
facing  and  edge,  (c)  lace  beading  and  edge,  and  lace  insertion  appliqued 


376  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


in  a  simple  design,  (d)  a  bias  fold  or  finishing  braid,  (e)  a  wide  lace  edge 
appliqued  to  give  a  yoke  effect,  with  a  casing  of  footing  or  batiste,  and 
entre-deux  used  between  the  casing  and  the  lace. 

3.  Machine  tucks.  The  same  finishes  may  be  used  with  machine  tucks 
as  with  hand  tucks,  machine  stitching  taking  the  place  of  hand  work 
wherever  possible. 

4.  Smocking.  Several  rows  of  smocking  may  be  used  around  the  neck, 
or  the  smocking  may  be  made  in  groups.  The  garment  may  be  finished 
at  the  neck  as  for  gathering. 

5.  Shirring.  Several  rows  of  gathering  may  be  put  in  about  M  inch 
apart  and  the  lines  of  gathering  featherstitched  or  chainstitched  with 
crochet  cotton.  Machine  hemstitching  may  be  used  to  make  the  gathers 
secure.   The  garment  may  be  finished  at  the  top  as  for  gathering. 

6.  Eyelets.  Eyelets  may  be  embroidered  at  intervals  about  3^  or  ^ 
inch  below  the  neck  line,  and  the  fullness  drawn  up  by  a  ribbon.  The 
garment  may  be  finished  at  the  top  with  scalloping  and  French  embroidery, 
or  it  may  be  rolled  and  have  lace  whipped  to  the  edge. 

7.  Yokes.  Fullness  may  be  set  into  yokes  with  entre-deux,  machine 
hemstitching,  insertion,  or  beading.  The  neck  of  the  yoke  may  be  finished 
in  any  of  the  ways  suggested,  without  fullness. 

Finishes  for  nightgown  with  high  neck  and  long  sleeves. 

A  nightgown  with  a  high  neck  and  long  sleeves  may  have  the 
fullness  set  into  a  yoke,  which  may  be  decorated  with  tucks, 
featherstitching,  and  the  like.  The  rieck  may  be  finished  with 
a  small  collar  having  a  featherstitched  hem.  The  placket  or  | 
front  closing  should  be  about  12  inches  long.  The  sleeves  may 
be  gathered  into  a  band  at  the  wrist. 

A  shaped  band  may  be  used  around  the  neck  and  down  the 
front  closing,  and  the  sleeves  may  be  gathered  into  a  band.  A 
small  collar  may  be  finished  with  a  narrow  ruffle  of  embroidery 
and  cuffs  made  to  correspond. 

Finishes  for  lower  edges  of  drawers  (Fig.  92) . 

The  lower  edges  of  drawers  may  be  finished  with  a  narrow 
hem  and  lace  edge;  a  narrow  hem,  insertion,  and  edge;  a  wider 
hem,  with  lace  insertion  set  in  above  the  hem ;  a  featherstitched 
or  fagoted  hem,  shaped  or  plain;  a  scalloped  finishing  braid; 
tucks  and  lace  or  a  hem;  a  shaped  facing;  a  casing  for  ribbon 
to  be  drawn  up  like  bloomers;  ruffles  of  embroidery  edge  or  of 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


377 


Fig.  92. — Methods  of  finishing  the  bottom  of 
drawers.  Left,  simple  embroidery  mfiie  set 
on  with  seam  binding;  right,  ruffle  with 
featherstitched  hem  and  lace  edge. 


skirt    with  cotton- 
FiG.  93. — Methods  of  finishing  the  bottom  of  backed  satin  flounce 

an  underskirt.   Left,  tucked  flounce;  right,  finished    with  scal- 


tucked  flounce  with  embroidery  edge.  loped  facing. 

the  material  finished  in  any  of  the  ways  just  suggested,  appUed 
with  seam  beading  or  a  tuck  finish. 

Finishes  for  bottom  of  underskirt  (Figs.  93,  91). 

For  the  bottom  of  a  white  cotton  or  gingham  underskirt 
without  a  flounce  or  a  dust  ruffle,  the  following  finishes  may  be 
used:  a  plain  hem,  a  shaped  hem  or  facing,  tucks  and  a  hem, 
scalloped  finishing  braid,  a  hem  and  rickrack  trimming,  a  hem 
and  heavy  lace  edge,  hand  scalloping. 


378 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


For  the  bottom  of  a  silk  or  sateen  underskirt  without  a  flounce 
or  a  dust  ruffle,  the  following  finishes  may  be  used :  a  plain  hem, 
a  shaped  hem  or  facing,  tucks  and  a  hem,  hand  scalloping. 

For  a  flannel  underskirt  without  a  flounce  or  a  dust  ruffl.e,  a 
featherstitched  hem  or  hand  scalloping  may  be  used. 

An  underskirt  with  a  flounce  should  have  the  flounce  set  on 
the  skirt  with  beading  or  a  tuck  or  a  felled  seam. 

A  white  cotton  underskirt  with  a  straight  gathered  flounce 
may  be  finished  with  an  insertion  and  hem,  a  scalloped  hem  with 
featherstitching,  a  shaped  facing,  insertion  and  edge,  rows  of 
lace  edge  sewed  together,  tucks  and  a  hem,  embroidery  flounc- 
ing, tucks  and  embroidery  edging,  hand  scalloping,  a  net  flounce 
with  bias  bands  of  gingham. 

A  white  cotton  underskirt  with  a  circular  flounce  may  be 
finished  with  a  plain  circular  flounce  flnished  at  the  bottom 
with  lace  edge  and  insertion,  or  with  sections  or  panels  joined 
with  insertion  or  entre-deux,  scalloped  or  straight  at  the  bottom. 

A  silk  or  sateen  underskirt  with  a  straight  gathered  flounce 
may  be  finished  with  a  plain  hem,  tucks  and  a  hem,  a  scalloped 
hem  or  facing,  hand  scalloping,  or  an  accordion-  or  knife-plaited 
flounce  with  a  hem. 

A  silk  or  sateen  underskirt  with  a  bias  flounce  may  be  finished 
with  a  bias  strip  which  is  finished  with  a  hem,  with  one  bias 
ruffle  sewed  to  another,  or  with  one  bias  ruffle  trimmed  with 
several  small  ruffles  or  puffings. 

An  underskirt  may  be  finished  with  both  a  flounce  and  a  dust 
ruffle.  A  dust  ruffle  3  or  4  inches  wide  may  be  used  on  a  white 
cotton  skirt  or  a  silk  or  sateen  skirt;  or  if  desired,  the  bottom 
of  the  skirt  may  be  finished  with  a  hem  instead  of  a  dust  ruffl,e. 
The  dust  ruffle  may  be  finished  at  the  bottom  with  a  narrow 
hem  or  with  rickrack  or  finishing  braid,  and  the  bottom  of  the 
flounce  finished  to  correspond  with  it. 

Finishes  for  waist-line. 

A  corset-cover  may  be  gathered  into  a  straight  band  cut 
lengthwise  of  the  material.  A  circular  peplum  may  be  set  into 
the  lower  edge  of  the  band. 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


379 


For  a  combination,  the  corset-cover  may  be  gathered  into  a 
straight  band  cut  lengthwise  of  the  material,  and  the  drawers 
set  into  the  lower  edge  of  the  band. 

Drawers  may  be  finished  with  a  straight  band  cut  length- 
wise of  the  material,  with  a  bias  facing  for  a  flat,  smooth  finish, 
or  with  a  yoke. 


Fig.    97. — Continuous  bound 
and  faced  placket  with  fly. 


An  underskirt  may  be  finished  with  a  straight  band  cut  length- 
wise of  the  material,  with  a  bias  facing  for  a  flat,  smooth  finish, 
or  with  a  yoke. 

Plackets  and  closings  for  undergarments. 

A  corset-cover  may  have  a  plait  ^4  to  Vs  inch  wide  on  the 
right  side  for  buttonholes,  and  a  hem      to  3/4  inch  wide  on  the 


380  A:  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


A 


Fig.   99. — Methods  of         ods  of  stranding  but- 
marking  positions  of         tonholes;  C,  overcast-  Fig.  101. — A,  Button- 
buttonholes,  ing  a  buttonhole.  hole  stitch ;  B,  but- 


tonhole with  fan 
and  bar;  C,  double- 
bar  buttonhole. 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


381 


left  side  for  buttons;  or  it  may  have  a  plait  and  fly  for  button- 
holes on  the  right  side  and  a  hem  for  buttons  on  the  left  side. 

Open  drawers  may  be  finished  with  bias  facings.  Closed  or 
circular  drawers  may  be  finished  with  a  continuous  bound 
placket  (Fig.  95),  a  continuous  bound  and  faced  placket  (Fig. 
96),  or  a  continuous  bound  and  faced  placket  with  a  fly  (Fig.  97). 

An  underskirt  may  be  finished  with  a  continuous  bound 
placket,  a  continuous  bound  and  faced  placket,  a  continuous 
bound  and  faced  placket  with  a  fly  or  a  hemmed  placket  (Fig.  98). 

Fastenings  for  undergarments  (Figs.  99-101). 

Buttonholes  and  buttons  are  the  best  fastenings  for  most 
undergarments  because  they  launder  well,  wear  well,  and  may 
be  an  interesting  part  of  the  design  .of  the  closing  of  a  garment. 

Single-bar  buttonholes  are  fan-shaped  at  one  end  and  have  a 
bar  finish  at  the  other.  They  are  generally  used  where  there  is 
a  strain;  the  button  rests  in  the  fan-shaped,  or  rounded,  end  of 
the  buttonhole. 

Double-bar  buttonholes  have  the  bar  finish  at  both  ends. 
They  are  generally  placed  vertically  in  the  garment  and  are 
used  where  there  is  not  much  strain  and  where  the  button  slips 
up  and  down  in  the  buttonhole. 

To  sew  on  buttons,  the  stitches  should  be  taken  over  a  pin 
placed  on  the  top  of  the  button.  The  pin  should  then  be  re- 
moved and  the  thread  wound  several  times  around  the  stitches 
between  the  button  and  the  garment  to  make  a  thread  neck  or 
shank  which  holds  the  button  up  from  the  material,  making  room 
for  the  buttonhole  and  giving  the  fastening  greater  strength. 

CLOTHING  FOR  CHILDREN  (bY  JULIA  GLEASON) 

The  children's  garments  described  in  this  chapter  are  chosen 
because  of  simplicity  and  durability  of  design  and  material, 
and  economy  of  time  and  money  in  making  them. 

In  making  or  selecting  garments  for  children  of  any  age  the 
following  points  should  be  considered : 

1.  Hygiene.  The  garment  should  be  such  that  it  can  be 
easily  cleansed,  it  should  not  restrict  body  development  in  any 


382 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


way,  and  it  should  be  light  in  weight  in  order  not  to  tire  the 
child.  If  it  is  an  undergarment,  it  should  be  knitted  or  loosely 
woven  to  allow  for  evaporation  of  the  body  moisture  and  thus 
keep  the  skin  dry  and  clean.  If  it  is  an  outside  garment,  it 
should  be  such  that  it  will  keep  out  the  cold  air  and  hold  in  the 
body  warmth. 

2.  Suitability  of  design  and  material.  Garments  for  children 
should  be  easily  made,  easily  laundered,  attractive  in  line  and 
color,  durable,  and  suitable  to  the  child's  environment  and  ac- 
tivities. 

3.  Economy.  The  garment  should  be  the  most  satisfactory 
one  that  can  be  obtained  for  the  expenditure  of  the  given  amount 
of  time,  energy,  and  money. 

Materials  suitable  for  infants^  clothing/ 

Materials  that  are  suitable  for  infants '  clothing  are  as  follows : 

For  a  nightgown:  nainsook,  cotton  flannel,  wool  flannel,  and  wool  and 
cotton  flannel. 

For  a  petticoat:  nainsook,  batiste,  handkerchief  linen,  cotton  flannel, 
wool  flannel,  and  cotton  and  wool  flannel. 

For  a  slip :  nainsook,  batiste,  handkerchief  linen. 

For  a  dress:  nainsook,  batiste,  handkerchief  linen,  and  fine  dimity. 

For  a  sack:  flannel,  challis,  cashmere,  henrietta  cloth.  A  sack  may 
also  be  knitted  or  crocheted. 

For  a  coat:  challis,  cashmere,  henrietta  cloth,  or  corded  silk;  china  silk 
for  linings. 

For  a  bonnet:  batiste,  handkerchief  linen,  and  silk  materials  of  various 
kinds. 

For  a  kimono:  flannel  and  challis. 

Suggestions  for  making  and  decorating  infants^  clothing. 

Infants'  garments  are  most  suitable  and  appropriate  when 
made  of  fine  materials  by  hand  and  with  very  little  trimming. 
The  very  narrow  laces — 3^  to  3^  inch  wide — fine  tatting,  tiny 
embroidery  headings,  featherstitching,  fagoting,  hemstitching, 
and  simple  French  embroidery  may  be  used  for  decoration. 

A  nightgown  may  be  made  kimono  style  or  with  set-in  sleeves. 
The  seams  should  be  hemmed  fells;  and  the  hem  should  be 
made  by  hand.    The  neck  and  sleeves  should  be  finished  with 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


383 


bias  facing  for  tape,  and  the}^  may  be  featherstitched.  A 
hemmed  placket  may  be  used. 

Petticoats  are  generally  made  on  an  underwaist,  the  neck  and 
armhole  of  which  may  be  finished  inconspicuously  with  a  tiny 
hem  or  narrow  lace  edge.  The  seams  on  the  white  petticoat 
may  be  hemmed  fells  or  French  seams;  on  the  flannel  petticoat, 
flannel  fells.  The  bottom  of  the  white  petticoat  may  be  fin- 
ished with  lace  insertion  and  edge,  lace  edge  alone,  a  ruffle  of 
fine  embroidery  of  dainty  design,  or  a  featherstitched  or  hem- 
stitched hem.  The  bottom  of  the  flannel  petticoat  may  be 
finished  with  a  featherstitched  hem,  hand  scalloping,  or  cro- 
cheting. 

A  simple  slip  (Fig.  102)  is  most  serviceable  for  constant 
wear.  It  may  be  made  kimono  style  or  with  set-in  sleeves.  The 


Fig.  102. — Suitable  designs  for  an  infant's  dress,  slip, 
and  coat. 


seams  may  be  hemmed  fells  or  French  seams.  The  hem  may  be 
plain,  hemstitched,  or  featherstitched,  and  the  placket  hemmed. 
Tiny  embroidery  beading  and  tatting  or  fine  linen  lace  may 
be  used  for  neck  and  sleeves.  A  few  tiny  tucks,  shirring,  or 
smocking  may  be  used  if  fullness  is  desired.  • 

A  few  dresses  a  little  more  elaborate  (Fig.  102)  than  the  slip 
may  be  made  for  occasional  wear.  The  seams  may  be  hemmed 
fells,  or  French  seams,  or  they  may  be  joined  with  seam  beading. 
The  hem  may  be  hemstitched,  featherstitched,  or  fagoted  in 


384 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


a  straight  line;  or  it  may  be  featherstitched,  chainstitched,  or 
fagoted  in  scalloped  or  Greek  key  design;  a  lace  edge  or  lace  in- 
sertion and  edge  may  be  usecf.  The  entire  skirt  may  be  made 
of  fine  embroidery  of  dainty  design.  The  placket  may  be 
hemmed.  The  neck  and  sleeves  may  be  finished  with  lace  or  em- 
broidery beading,  and  lace  edge  or  tatting.  The  sleeves  may  be 
set  in  with  seam  beading.  A  round,  square,  or  shaped  yoke 
may  be  set  in  with  seam  beading  and  decorated  with  feather- 
stitching,  fagoting,  or  French  embroidery  in  simple  design.  A 
yoke  effect  may  be  secured  by  means  of  groups  of  hand  tucks 
alternating  with  a  simple  embroidery  stitch  such  as  feather- 
stitching,  or  by  smocking  or  shirring. 

The  sack  may  be  made  kimono  style,  and  the  edges  finished 
with  hand  scalloping,  crochet,  or  ribbon  binding. 

The  coat  (Fig.  102)  may  be  cut  with  a  large  cape  collar  and 
may  be  very  plain  or  decorated  with  simple  embroidery  or 
featherstitching. 

The  bonnet  may  be  cut  with  a  flange  to  turn  from  the  face, 
and  decorated  with  tiny  ruffles  of  lace,  rows  of  featherstitching 
and  hand  tucks,  or  a  lace  edge  whipped  to  a  scalloped  edge. 
The  same  decoration  may  be  used  on  a  bonnet  without  a 
flange. 

A  kimono  may  be  made  with  hemmed  fell  or  French  seams, 
and  finished  around  the  neck  and  down  the  front  with  a  shaped 
facing  which  may  be  secured  with  featherstitching  or  chain- 
stitching  in  one  of  the  dainty  shades  of  blue  or  pink;  oi  it  may 
be  bound  with  ribbon  which  may  be  secured  with  feather- 
stitching or  chainstitching. 

Designs  and  materials  for  garments  suitable  for  girls  from  three 
to  five  years  of  age. 

The  one-piece  dress  hanging  free  from  a  yoke  or  very  short 
waist,  or  belted  in  with  a  loose  belt  in  a  long-waisted  effect  is 
a  good  style  for  the  child  from  three  to  five  years  of  age  (Fig. 
103).    The  following  materials  are  suitable: 

For  rompers:  kindergarten  cloth,  chambray,  gingham,  galatea,  percale. 
For  dresses  with  bloomers  to  match:  kindergarten  cloth,  chambray, 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING  385 

gingham,  galatea,  poplin,  madras,  percale,  dimity,  Swiss,  batiste,  voile, 
India  linon,  and  the  like. 

Designs  and  materials  for  garments  suitable  for  girls  from  six 
to  ten  years  of  age. 


Fig.  103. — Suitable  designs  for  dresses  for  children  from 
three  to  five  years. 


The  simple  one-piece  dress  with  a  belt  is  a  satisfactory  style 
for  children  from  six  to  ten  years  of  age  (Fig.  104).  The  wool 
dress  may  be  worn  with  a  washable  guimpe  in  order  to  keep  it 


Fig.  104. — Suitable  designs  for  dresses  for  children  from  six 
to  ten  years. 


fresh  and  clean  (Fig.  104).  The  following  materials  are  suit- 
able: 

For  dresses:  kindergarten  cloth,  galatea,  pique,  percale,  chambray, 
gingham,  poplin,  madras,  Indian  head,  dimity,  voile,  India  linon,  batiste, 


386 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


and  the  like.  Wool  challis,  henrietta  cloth,  albatross,  and  cashmere  are 
serviceable  light-weight  woolen  materials  suitable  for  winter  wear  when 
the  laundry  problem  makes  the  wearing  of  wash  dresses  throughout  the 
year  impracticable. 

For  bloomers:  If  possible,  the  bloomers  should  be  of  the  same  material 
as  the  dress.   Sateen  may  be  used  for  bloomers  with  wool  dresses. 

Designs  and  materials  for  garments  suitable  for  girls  from  ten 
to  twelve  years  of  age. 

The  washable  middy  blouse  with  the  cloth  skirt  (Fig.  105) 


and  sateen  bloomers  is  a  satisfactory  combination  for  the  school 
frock;  or  the  middy,  skirt,  and  bloomers  may  be  made  of  the 
saine  cotton  material.    The  straight  plaited  skirt  is  a  good    j  ( 
design.   The  one-piece  dress  in  gingham  or  galatea  is  also  satis- 
factory (Fig.  105).  L 
Knit  underwaist  and  drawers  or  knit  union  suits  have  been    |  j 
found  by  many  to  be  the  most  satisfactory  undergarments  for    |  g 
children  from  three  to  twelve  years  of  age.    The  bloomers  may  I 


Fig.    105. — Suitable  designs   for  dresses  for 
children  from  ten  to  twelve  years. 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


387 


be  made  on  a  waist  or  may  fasten  on  the  underwaist.  The  fol- 
lowing materials  are  suitable : 

For  a  middy  blouse:  middy  twill,  galatea,  poplin,  Indian  head,  khaki, 
linen,  serge. 

For  a  skirt:  Any  of  the  materials  suggested  for  a  middy  blouse,  or 
gabardine,  rep,  or  wool  suitings  of  various  kinds. 

For  a  dress:  Gingham,  chambray,  percale,  galatea,  pique,  pophn,  cotton 
gabardine,  voile,  batiste,  and  the  like. 

For  bloomers:  Any  of  the  materials  suggested  for  a  dress  or  skirt,  or 
sateen — black,  white,  or  colored. 


Fig.  106. — Suitable  designs  for  dresses  for  children 
from  twelve  to  sixteen  years. 


Designs  and  materials  for  garments  suitable  for  girls  from  twelve 
to  sixteen  years  of  age, 

A  middy  blouse  and  skirt  or  a  middy  dress  may  be  made  of 
any  of  the  materials  suggested  for  younger  girls.  The  same  ma- 
terial may  also  be  used  for  a  wash  dress.  Suggestive  designs 
are  shown  in  Fig.  106. 

A  school  dress  or  a  street  dress  of  serge,  wool  poplin,  gabar- 


388  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


dine,  whipcord,  tweed,  or  homespun  is  suitable  and  practical 
for  a  girl  of  this  age. 

PATCHING  * 

Patching  is  the  art  of  repairing  or  restoring  worn  places  in 
garments  and  household  articles.  In  order  to  make  the  patch 
as  inconspicuous  and  as  strong  as  possible,  several  things  should  i 
be  observed.  All  of  the  worn  or  torn  part  should  be  cut  away, 
making  the  hole  either  square  or  oblong.  Sometimes  round 
patches  are  made,  but  they  are  more  difficult.  If  possible,  a 
piece  of  the  material  which  is  as  worn  or  as  faded  as  the  gar-  ! 
ment  should  be  used,  thus  making  it  less  conspicuous.  To  fade  a 
piece  of  new  cloth,  it  should  be  dampened  and  laid  in  the  sun. 
When  the  material  is  figured,  the  pattern  in  the  patch  should 
match  that  in  the  garment.  If  there  is  a  nap,  it  should  run  in 
the  same  direction  on  both  patch  and  garment.  Warp  and  woof 
threads  should  match  also. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  patches,  hemmed  and  overhand,  and  , 
one  must  use  judgment  as  to  which  to  use  in  repairing  articles. 

Hemmedj  or  set-on,  patch. 

The  hemmed  patch  is  the  stronger  and  is  used  on  garments  and 
articles  which  are  often  laundered  or  are  subjected  to  hard  wear. 
Hence  it  is  used  on  household  linens,  undergarments,  and 
aprons.  The  directions  for  making  it  follow : 

(1)  Cut  a  square  or  oblong  patch  large  enough  to  cover  completely  (at 
least  1  inch  beyond)  the  worn  place  in  the  garment.   If  a  sampler  is  used 
for  practice,  make  a  tear  such  as  might  be  torn  in  a  garment.    (2)  After 
matching  the  figures,  crease  from  diagonally  opposite  corners  on  both 
garment  and  patch  to  obtain  the  centers.    (3)  Turn  in  the  edges  of  the 
patch  to  the  right  side  slightly  less  than  3^  inch.    Crease  or  baste  down. 
(4)  Place  the  right  side  of  the  patch  to  the  under  side  of  the  opening  with  ' 
the  centers  over  one  another,  and  the  figures  in  the  patch  and  the  garment  1 
exactly  matched.    (5)  Baste  into  position.    (6)  Hem  with  fine  hemming  j 
stitches.    (7)  Cut  away  all  the  torn  portion  of  the  garment,  making  the  , 
shape  of  this  opening  conform  to  the  shape  of  the  patch,  and  allowing  at 
least  5/8  inch  between  the  edges  of  the  patch  and  the  opening.    (8)  Make  ' 
cuts  on  the  diagonal  creases  3^  inch  deep.    (9)  Turn  in  the  edges  slightly  I 

*  Ext.  Circ.  14,  Coll.  of  Agr.,  Univ.  of  111. 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


389 


less  than  3^  inch,  following  a  thread  of  the  material.  If  the  material  is  a 
plaid  or  a  stripe,  turn  on  the  edge  of  a  stripe,  never  through  the  middle  of 
one.  Also  the  patch  will  be  less  conspicuous  if  the  turning  is  on  a  dark 
rather  than  on  a  light  stripe.  (10)  Baste  into  position,  using  great  care 
to  have  stripes  or  figures  match  exactly.  (11)  Hem  with  fine  hemming 
stitches.    (12)  Remove  the  bastings,  dampen  and  press. 

Overhand,  or  set-in,  patch. 

The  overhand  patch  is  less  conspicuous,  so  it  is  used  mere 
often  for  outer  clothing.  It  is  less  serviceable,  for  it  is  joined 
to  the  opening  with  only  one  seam,  and  the  corners  are  held  by 
a  single  thread.   It  is  made  in  the  following  way: 

(1)  Cut  a  square  or  oblong  piece  large  enough  to  cover  completely  the 
worn  place.  (2)  After  matching  the  pattern,  crease  from  diagonally  opposite 
corners  in  both  garment  and  patch  to  obtain  the  centers.  (3)  Turn  in 
the  edges  of  the  patch  }4  inch,  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  material,  turning 
on  the  warp  and  woof  threads.  (4)  Lay  the  wrong  side  of  the  patch  to  the 
right  side  of  the  garment  with  centers  and  figures  matched.  (5)  Baste 
with  short  stitches  very  close  to  the  turned  edges.  (6)  Beginning  a  little 
distance  from  one  corner,  overhand  the  edge  of  the  patch  to  the  garment 
with  close,  shallow  overhanding  stitches.  Be  very  careful  at  the  corners 
not  to  take  the  stitches  too  deep,  as  this  will  cause  the  corners  to  be  puck- 
ered, or  to  catch  in  the  two  middle  thicknesses.  (7)  Continue  overhanding 
around  the  four  sides.  (8)  Remove  the  basting.  (9)  On  the  wrong  side, 
cut  diagonally  from  the  center  of  the  hole  in  the  garment  to  the  four  ex- 
treme corners  of  the  patch.  (10)  Crease  the  seams  open  on  the  overhand- 
ing. (11)  Trim  the  edges  until  they  are  parallel  to  the  edges  of  the  patch 
and  34  inch  wide.  (12)  Cut  off  the  corners  of  the  patch  diagonally,  so 
that  they  do  not  overlap.  (13)  Overcast  separately,  with  short  over- 
casting stitches,  the  edges  of  the  seams. 

CLOTH  DARNING* 

Darning  is  the  repairing  of  cloth  by  the  weaving  in  of  threads 
to  replace  torn  or  worn  warp  and  woof  threads.  Knitted  fabrics, 
also,  are  mended  in  this  way.  Darning  is  a  less  conspicuous 
method  of  repairing  than  patching,  although  on  garments  which 
are  subjected  to  very  hard  wear  or  to  much  laundering,  it  is  not 
so  satisfactory.  In  woolen  garments  darning  is  usually  pref- 
erable to  patching,  since  it  is  less  bulky  and  woolen  clothes  are 
not  so  often  laundered. 

*  Ext.  Circ.  14,  Coll.  of  A-r.,  Univ.  of  111. 


390 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


To  make  the  darn  as  inconspicuous  as  possible,  a  raveling  of 
the  material  is  used,  or  if  this  is  not  strong  enough,  a  silk  thread 
is  split  into  thirds,  and  one  of  these  strands  is  used.  When  only 
one  set  of  threads  has  been  severed,  whether  it  be  warp  or  woof, 
this  set  alone  needs  to  be  supplied.  If  both  warp  and  woof  are 
broken,  they  must  both  be  woven  in.  The  stitch  which  is  used 
is  a  short,  loose  running  stitch,  and,  as  far  as  possible,  the  darn- 
ing is  done  on  the  wrong  side.  The  edges  of  the  tear  must  be 
neatly  joined  together  by  passing  oyer  and  under  them  in  the 
alternate  rows  of  sewing.  The  distance  which  the  stitches  are 
carried  outside  the  tear  depends  on  the  strength  of  the  surround- 
ing material.  If  it  is  very  much  worn,  the  darning  must  be 
made  to  cover  the  thin  places.  To  form  a  guide  for  the  darning 
stitches,  a  basting  thread  should  be  run  just  outside  the  area 
to  be  darned. 

The  three  forms  of  tears  which  most  often  occur  are  straight, 
diagonal,  and  three-cornered,  or  hedge.  Sometimes  there  is  a 
hole  which  is  too  large  for  ordinary  darning,  and  it  can  be  re- 
paired best  by  placing  a  patch  underneath  and  darning  the  edges 
down  over  it.   The  method  of  repairing  these  tears  follows: 

Straight  tear. — The  tear  may  be  across  either  warp  or  woof  threads,  so 
the  missing  ones  should  be  woven  in.  Start  the  running  stitches  as  far 
above  the  cut,  and  carry  them  as  far  beyond,  as  it  is  necessary,  in  order 
to  reinforce  the  worn  part.  When  the  tear  is  reached,  pass  over  and  under 
the  two  edges  in  alternating  rows,  so  that  they  are  firmly  held  together. 
Be  very  careful  not  to  draw  the  threads  too  tightly  as  this  will  cause  a 
puckered  appearance. 

Bias  or  diagonal  tear. — In  a  bias  or  diagonal  tear  both  the  warp  and  woof 
threads  are  severed,  and  so  they  must  be  supplied.  The  running  stitches 
should  follow  the  warp  and  woof  threads  of  the  cloth,  not  placed  at  right 
angles  to  the  cut.  The  warp  threads  should  be  put  in  first  as  far  beyond 
the  tear  as  necessary,  and  the  woof  threads  then  woven  in.  The  woof 
threads  may  be  laid  farther  apart  than  the  warp.  As  this  tear  is  on  the 
bias,  care  must  be  used  not  to  stretch  it. 

Three-cornered  or  hedge  tear. — In  the  three-cornered  tear,  also,  both  the 
warp  and  the  woof  threads  are  severed,  but  not  often  on  the  bias.  The 
darning  is  first  done  following  the  warp  threads  from  one  end  to  the  corner, 
then  the  woof  threads  are  replaced  in  the  same  manner.  At  the  corner, 
there  will  be  a  square  darn  where  the  supplied  warp  and  woof  threads  should 
be  interlaced. 


THE  MAKING  OF  CLOTHING 


Large  hole  or  worn  place. — Cut  a  piece  of  the  cloth  large  enough  to  cover 
the  hole  or  worn  place,  and  to  extend  far  enough  beyond  to  reinforce  it. 
If  the  material  is  figured  or  has  a  nap,  it  should  be  matched.  Baste  the 
right  side  of  this  patch  to  the  \\Tong  side  of  the  garment  with  the  warp 
and  the  woof  threads  matching.  On  the  right  side  darn  over  the  raw 
edges,  without  turning  them  under.  If  the  ragged  edges  are  not  entirely- 
trimmed  away,  the  unevenness  of  the  edges  will  make  the  darned  place 
less  conspicuous.  Do  not  carry  the  running  stitches  across  the  patch  if  it 
is  a  large  one.  The  edges  of  the  patch  oa  the  wrong  side  may  be  sewed 
down  with  long  hemming  stitches. 

STOCKING  DARNING* 

A  hole  in  a  stocking  is  repaired  by  a  woven  darn.  In  place 
of  being  woven  in  a  loom  as  cloth  is,  stockinet  is  made  on  a 
knitting  machine  and  consists  of  a  series  of  interlocked  loops  of 
a  continuous  thread  or  yarn.  In  darning,  the  loose  loops  should 
be  caught  to  prevent  further  raveling. 

I       Method  of  stocking  darning. 

I  Guide  line  for  the  stitches. — As  a  guide  line  for  the  work,  outline  with  bast- 
ing the  space  to  be  darned.  Make  the  darn  diamond-shaped,  large  enough 
to  reinforce  all  the  weakened  part  surrounding  the  hole, 
i  Materials  to  be  used. — Use  darning  cotton  to  match  the  color  and  the 
'  size  of  the  yarn  in  the  stocking.  For  the  average  weight  stocking,  except 
thin  hsle  and  silk,  two  strands  of  the  ordinary  four-ply  darning  cotton  is 
used.  Use  a  needle  which  is  just  large  enough  to  carry  the  thread,  and 
do  not  knot  the  thread.  If  the  hole  is  too  large  to  hold  over  the  first  two 
fingers  of  the  left  hand,  a  darning-ball  may  be  placed  inside  of  the  stocking. 
Be  very  careful  in  using  a  darner,  however,  not  to  stretch  the  edges  of  the 
hole. 

Lengthwise  darning  stitches. — Darning  is  done  on  the  right  side  of  the 
stocking.  Start  at  the  right  side  of  the  hole  just  inside  the  basting  which 
serves  as  a  guide  fine.  Put  in  first  the  lengthwise  stitches  (those  parallel 
I  to  the  ribs  in  the  stocking),  using  short,  running  stitches.  In  turning 
from  one  row  of  stitches  to  the  next,  loops  must  be  left  in  the  darning 
cotton  to  allow  for  the  possible  stretching  of  the  stocking  and  the  shrinkage 
due  to  washing.  When  the  hole  is  reached,  take  up  on  the  needle  the 
loose  loop  at  the  edge  to  strengthen  the  darn  and  carry  the  thread  across 
the  hole,  taking  up  the  loop  opposite.  Continue  until  the  inclosed  area 
is  filled  with  these  lengthwise  stitches. 

Crosswise  darning  stitches. — Start  in  the  same  manner  from  the  top 
putting  in  crosswise  stitches.    Interweave  these  stitches  with  the  length- 


*  Ext.  Circ.  14,  Coll.  of  Agr.,  Univ.  of  lU. 


392 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


wise  ones,  and  when  the  hole  is  reached  weave  the  woof  threads  over  and 
under  alternate  warp  threads.  In  the  next  row,  pass  under  the  threads 
which  were  passed  over  in  the  preceding  row.  Continue  until  the  space 
is  completely  filled.  The  finished  darn  should  be  smooth  so  that  it  will 
be  comfortable  on  the  foot. 

References 

Baldt,  Laura  I.   Clothing  for  Women.    J.  P.  Lippincott  Co. 
Fales,  Jane.   Dressmaking.    Charles  Scribner's  Sons. 


CHAPTER  XVI 


MILLINERY 

By  Beulah  Blackmore 

Hats  should  be  analyzed,  and  the  peculiar  defects  of  every 
unsatisfactory  hat  should  be  exactly  noted.  In  this  way  a 
group  of  principles  may  be  mastered,  which  should  be  followed 
regardless  of  the  season's  vagaries  in  shape  and  trimming. 

HOW  TO  SELECT  A  HAT 

No  definite  statement  can  be  made  as  to  what  should  or 
should  not  be  worn.  In  selecting  a  hat,  the  arrangement  of  the 
hair,  the  shape  of  the  face  and  its  coloring,  the  relation  of  the 
hat  to  the  head  and  of  the  head  to  the  whole  figure  must  be 
considered. 

Proportion  and  balance. 

Of  first  consideration  in  the  study  of  hats  is  the  relation  both 
of  the  hat  to  the  head  and  of  the  head,  including  the  hat,  to  the 
entire  figure.  Since  the  figure  may  be  seen  from  all  sides,  the 
hat  should  look  well,  not  only  from  the  direct  front  view,  but 
from  every  possible  point  of  view.  In  general,  the  crown  and 
the  brim  should  be  in  good  proportion  to  each  other,  and 
the  hat  should  be  in  proportion  to  the  head  and  to  the  whole 
figure. 

To  make  broad  shoulders  appear  less  broad,  the  crown  of 
the  hat  should  be  fairly  high,  while  the  brim  should  be  fairly 
wide  in  order  to  balance  the  hips.  This  is  but  a  single  example  of 
the  relation  of  the  hat  to  the  figure.  A  hat  that  is  too  large 
gives  a  top-heavy  appearance  and  thus  disturbs  the  proportions 
of  the  human  figure.  A  sufficient  sense  of  balance  is  inherent 
in  the  average  person  to  guide  her  judgment  in  selecting  a  hat, 

393 


394 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


if  she  studies  in  a  long  mirror  its  relation  to  her  full-length 
figure. 

Small  hats,  such  as  toques  and  turbans,  should  be  carefully 
related  to  the  head,  and  therefore,  set  securely  and  squarely 
on  the  head.  Nothing  has  a  more  misfit  appearance  than  a 
toque  so  large  that  is  seems  to  be  burdensome,  or  so  small 
that  it  seems  to  be  insecurely  perched  on  the  head.  The  toque 
generally  should  not  be  worn  by  a  person  with  a  large  face  or 
with  high  color,  because  it  tends  to  emphasize  both  feature  and 
color.  It  is  designed  for  a  person  of  delicate  features  and  moder- 


FiG.  107. — Correct  size  of  a  crown,  shown  by  the  heavy  line. 


ately  pallid  complexion.  The  hair  should  show  slightly  around 
the  face. 

A  hat  with  a  brim  sets  the  face  somewhat  in  the  shadow  and 
retires  any  unduly  prominent  features.  If  it  is  desired  to  lessen 
the  prominence  of  a  single  feature,  an  interesting  color  or  line 
of  construction  may  be  so  arranged  as  to  divide  the  attention 
called  to  the  feature.  As  an  example,  for  a  face  with  a  promi- 
nent nose,  trimming  that  tends  to  lengthen  the  line  from  the  nose 
to  the  back  of  the  hat  should  be  avoided.  Instead,  the  interest- 
ing spot  on  the  hat  should  be  placed  at  the  front  or  the  side 
front  in  order  to  break  the  line  and  divide  the  center  of  interest. 

The  test  for  the  correct  size  of  the  crown  is  that  it  shall  be 
neither  less  than  the  width  of  the  face,  nor  greater  than  the  con-' 
tour  of  the  hair  (Fig.  107).    If  the  hair  is  puffed  considerably 


MILLINERY 


395 


Fig. 


at  the  sides,  an  elongated  crown  placed  crosswise  on  the  hat 
may  be  used. 

The  crown  should  not  be  set  so  low  on  the  head  that  the  eye- 
brows, which  give  the  dark  contrast  to 
the  face,  are  covered.  The  hat  should 
be  large  enough  and  low  enough,  to  give 
the  appearance  of  being  firmly  placed 
on  the  head,  not  perched  on  the  hair 
(Figs.  108,  109).  The  crown  should  be 
placed  squarely  on  the  head;  if  a  tilted 
effect  is  desired,  it  may  be  accomplished 
by  tilting  the  brim  only  (Fig.  110). 

In  general,  the  front  line  of  the  crown 
should  continue  the  line  of  the  forehead 
(Figs.  107-109).  At  the  back,  the  line 
should  not  extend  beyond  the  hair.  If 
the  hair  extends  far  beyond  the  head, 
the  back  line  of  the  crown  should  fall 
between  the  contour  of  the  hair  and 
the  head.  In  no  case  should  the  back  line  of  the  crown  fall  in- 
side the  line  of  the  head.  The  tam  o'shanter  crown  should  bear  at 
its  base  the  same  relation  to  the  head  as  should  any  other  crown. 

 A  turban  should  be  placed  well  on 

the  head,  not  allowed  to  hang  off  at 
the  back  (Fig.  Ill),  and  thus  destroy 
the  balance  of  the  whole  figure. 

Brims  are  intended  as  a  protection  for 
the  eyes,  but  they  are  usually  extended 
at  the  sides  and  the  back  for  balance. 
The  brim  of  a  hat  should  not  under 
any  circumstances  extend  beyond  the 
shoulders.  A  brim  may  be  tilted  in 
any  becoming  way  if  the  balance  of  the 
hat  is  not  destroyed  or  if  the  balance  is  restored  by  the  use  of 
trimming.  A  brim  should  not  be  so  drooping  that  the  eye- 
brows are  covered,  or  so  upturned  that  a  becoming  shadow  for 
the  face  is  lost. 


108. — Incorrect  size  of 
crown.  The  crown 
should  be  sufficiently 
large  to  be  set  well 
down  on  the  head; 
otherwise,  the  hat  may 
appear  to  be  insecurely 
placed  as  here  shown. 


 -\- 

J 

) 

Fig.  109. — Correct  placing 
of  a  hat,  shown  by  the 
heavy  line. 


396 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Hats  of  straw  and  other  light-weight  textures  may  be  larger 
than  those  of  velvet  and  other  heavy  materials.  A  hat  that  is 
light  in  color  always  has  the  effect  of  being  larger  than  a  dark 

  one  of  the  same  size.    If  a  dark  hat  is 

desired  and  dark  colors  are  unbecoming, 
the  hat  may  be  faced  with  a  light  color. 

Line  and  form. 

Already  exaggerated  features  or  un- 
desirable lines  of  the  face  should  not 
be  accented  by  a  pronounced  repetition 
of  the  direction  of  these  lines  in  the 
Fig.  110.— The  prominent  hat.    For  example,  if  there  are  heavy 
"ZLl^llttl^  downward  lines  about  the  mouth,  the 
lines  of  the  face.  If  it  brim  of  the  hat  should  not  repeat  these 
is  desirable  to  have  Imes  (Fig.  112).   Again,  if  the  eyes  slant 

the  brim  tilted  it  may         .  i  xi  j.  i    .      • .  i 

be  bent  as  desired,  toward  the  outer  corner,  a  hat  with 
but  the  crown  should  an  abrupt  Upward  curve  of  the  brim 

the  head  '"^""^'^^^  ''''  ^^^^^^  ^® 

be  neutralized  by  the  use  of  opposing 
lines.  The  opposition,  however,  must  not  be  carried  too  far, 
because  entire  lack  of  harmony  in  line  will  produce  the  same 
effect  as  does  strong  parallelism  of  line. 

A  person  with  a  square  face  needs  an 
irregular  brim,  because  a  straight  brim 
only  emphasizes  by  contrast  the  angles 
of  the  face.  A  round  face  or  one  of 
regular  features  requires  the  opposite 
treatment  from  the  square  face.  A 
severe,  straight  brim  or  upstanding 
crown  may  be  worn  in  this  case.  An 
oval  face  needs  a  curved,  irregular  line. 
Rather  long  curves  are  most  suitable. 

In  order  to  be  practicable,  these 
suggestions  necessitate  that  the  hair 
be  arranged  to  suit  the  face.    Moreover,  when  buying  a  hat, 
one  should  be  sure  that  it  does  not  require  a  special  arrange- 


FiG.  111. — Correct  placing 
of  a  turban  shown  by 
the  heavy  line. 


MILLINERY 


397 


ment  of  the  hair  to  suit  it;  the  hat  should  suit  the  customary 
arrangement  of  the  hair.  A  softening  hne  of  hair  should 
always  come  between  the  harsh  edge  of  the  hat  and  the  fore- 
head. From  time  to  time  extreme  forms  of  hair-dressing  come 
into  vogue.  A  beautiful  face  may  or  may  not  be  affected  by 
them,  but  the  peculiar  types  must  avoid  extremes  in  shape, 
whether  in  area  or  contour.   Neither  the  round  nor  the  narrow 


Fig.  112. — The  outline  or  decoration  of  a  hat  should 
not  repeat  or  parallel  undesirable  lines  in  the  face. 
Similarity  of  line  may  accentuate  either  good  or 
bad  lines. 


face  should  have  the  hair  drawn  back  from  the  temples.  The 
long  oval  head  needs  to  have  the  hair  done  low  in  the  back, 
while  the  person  with  a  round  face  may  wear  the  hair  high. 

At  its  best,  the  hair  grows  around  the  face  in  a  graceful  Hne; 
but  when  this  line  is  not  attractive,  the  hair  may  be  arranged  to 
supply  the  deficiency.  There  is  a  legitimate  use  for  false  hair, 
if  it  serves  to  beautify  the  proportions  and  the  contour  of  the 
head  or  to  create  fine  surfaces,  such  as  soft  waving  effects.  Any 
arrangement  of  the  hair  that  does  not  tend  to  augment  the  at- 
tractiveness of  the  face,  such  as  extreme  changes  of  contour, 
or  fussy,  kinky  effects,  is  poor  design  and  is  in  bad  taste.  For 
short,  broad  faces,  both  round  and  square,  the  form  as  a  whole 
should  be  built  high,  as  against  wide,  in  shape.  The  hair  should 


398 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


not  be  pressed  close  to  the  temples.  The  hair  should  not  be 
brought  low  but  should  be  kept  away  from  the  forehead  except  at 
the  corners  where  the  short  oblique  lines  suggest  softness  of  con- 
tour against  the  face.  The  square-faced  person  needs  rounding 
contours  in  the  hair-dressing;  the  round  face  needs  crisp  reverse 
curves  in  contour  to  counteract  the  round  suggestions  elsewhere. 

For  long,  thin  faces,  the  hair  should  be  arranged  to  make  the 
head  appear  as  broad  as  possible,  care  being  taken  not  to  create 
too  great  a  contrast,  however,  between  the  width  of  the  hair 
and  of  the  face,  lest  the  hair  serve  merely  as  a  frame  to  em- 
phasize, rather  than  correct,  the  narrowness.  The  hair  should 
be  brought  low  both  horizontally  and  obliquely.  The  space  left 
between  the  oblique  side  lines,  however,  should  not  be  too  nar- 
row. This  would  only  emphasize  the  length  of  the  face  by  in- 
troducing a  long  vertical  line.  The  hair  should  never  be  piled 
high  over  a  long,  thin  face. 

The  face  that  is  more  or  less  triangular  needs  the  same  treat- 
ment as  the  square  face.  This  type  should  avoid  oblique  lines 
that  are  produced  by  parting  the  hair  in  the  middle,  because 
this  repeats  in  exaggerated  form  the  lower  shape  of  the  face. 
The  head  should  not  be  unduly  broadened  in  such  a  way  as  to 
create  an  extreme  triangular  shape. 

Color, 

Color  is  discussed  on  pages  45  to  47.  It  may  be  said  here, 
however,  that  in  selecting  a  hat  one  should  be  sure  that  it  is  in 
harmony  with  the  other  outer  garments  with  which  it  is  to  be 
worn.  In  general,  if  the  costume  is  striking  in  color,  a  hat  of 
neutral  tone,  especially  white  or  black,  furnishes  a  desirable 
contrast;  while  if  the  costume  is  somber,  a  bright  touch  of 
color  in  the  hat  is  most  interesting.  A  hat  is  seldom  satisfac- 
tory when  it  is  of  the  same  color,  value,  and  texture  as  the  cos- 
tume. A  contrast  in  value,  if  not  in  color,  is  always  to  be  desired. 

Trimming. 

The  foregoing  discussion  of  the  principles  of  design  applies 
also  to  the  trimming  of  hats.   The  following  suggestions  apply 


MILLINERY 


399 


to  that  considered  in  relation  to  the  entire  costume  and  the 
wearer,  not  as  an  isolated  article  of  clothing. 

The  function  of  trimming,  in  addition  to  its  decorative  value, 
is  to  effect  slight  changes  that  may  add  to  the  becomingness 
of  hats.  Trimming  should 
aid   in   emphasizing  the  A 
good  points  of  the  face 
and  hair   of  the  wearer 
and  should  mitigate  any 
unfortunate  elements.  By 
the  addition  of  a  bow,  a 
feather,   or   other  orna- 
ment, the  lines  of  a  hat 
may    be    changed  and 
adapted  to  the  wearer. 

Trimming  should  be  so 
placed  that  it  gives  the 
impression  of  being  rightly 
distributed.  Color  must 
be  reckoned  with  when 
balance  is  being  con- 
sidered: a  small  bit  of  in- 
tense color  may  balance  a 
larger  mass  of  a  more 
subdued  color.  The  pre- 
vailing fashion  may  pre- 
sent difficulties,  but  no 
fashion  should  undermine 
good  judgment. 

There  should  be  one 
general  direction  of  line 
and  a  center  of  interest  to  which  all  trimming  should  appear  to 
converge  or  to  be  subordinate  (Fig.  113).  Cross  lines  in  trim- 
ming should  be  avoided.  More  than  one  point  of  interest,  unless 
these  points  are  perfectly  balanced,  produces  a  confused  appear- 
ance and  causes  the  eye  to  jump  from  one  spot  to  another.  The 
center  of  interest  in  the  trimming  should  not  be  so  conspicuous 


Fig.  113. — The  decoration  should  strengthen 
the  structural  lines  of  the  hat.  There 
should  be  but  one  center  of  interest  and 
all  decoration  should  appear  to  converge 
to  that  point  (A  and  B).  Some  con- 
trast in  Hne  is  always  interesting  {B). 
The  proportion  of  space  covered  by  the 
decoration  should  have  an  interesting 
relation  to  the  uncovered  surface  {B 
and  C). 


400  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


in  color  or  size  as  to  detract  from  the  face,  which  after  all  is  the 
picture  for  which  the  hat  serves  as  the  frame. 

If  the  hat  is  too  heavily  trimmed  in  the  back,  there  is  a  tend- 
ency to  bend  the  head  and  shoulders  forward  in  an  effort  to  j 
balance  the  trimming.    If  it  is  too  heavily  trimmed  in  front, 
it  gives  the  undesirable  appearance  of  pitching  forward,  or  ; 
creates  a  tendency  to  place  the  hat  too  far  back  on  the  head.  : 
This  is  likely  to  make  the  most  graceful  line  unbecoming  and 
disturbs  the  balance  of  the  figui^e.   Hats  with  the  bulk  of  the 
trimming  at  one  side  may  appear  to  be  burdensome. 

RENOVATING  MATERIALS 

When  looking  over  an  old  stockof  hats,  the  home  worker  finds 
that  brims  change  in  shape  more  slowly  than  do  crowns.  Crowns  \ 
may  often  be  remodeled,  however,  by  the  use  of  ribbon  or  silk.  | 
Trimming  may  sometimes  be  so  placed  that  it  changes  the  line  j 
of  the  crown  and  gives  the  effect  of  a  different  shape.  Good  ma- 
terials should  never  be  thrown  away. 

Storing. 

At  the  end  of  each  season  when  hats  are  to  be  stored  for  an-  | 
other  season,  they  should  be  examined  carefully.    Hats  to  be  y 
used  in  the  same  way  at  another  time  should  be  well  dusted  and 
spots  that  might  tempt  moths  should  be  removed  (page  283). 
The  hats  should  be  wrapped  carefully. 

If  the  hat  is  not  to  be  used  in  its  original  shape  again,  it 
should  be  ripped  apart.  Any  wire  should  be  rolled  and  ribbons 
and  velvet  cleaned.  All  covered  wire  should  be  saved,  since 
it  is  not  always  easy  to  obtain  a  piece  of  wire  when  needed. 
If  millinery  material  is  cleaned  and  rolled  instead  of  folded  it 
may  offer  a  much  greater  suggestion  for  remodeling  than  when 
it  is  soiled  and  crushed. 

The  frame  material  is  not  often  good  enough  to  be  used  again, 
but  if  it  is  in  fair  condition  it  may  be  improved  by  dampen- 
ing and  repressing.  Good  pieces  may  be  saved  for  making 
buckles,  backs  for  ribbon  decorations,  or  for  piecing  out  another 
frame. 


■Top,  simple  and  effective  designs  in  small  hats.  Bottom,  finishes 
for  corset  covers. 


MILLINERY 


401 


Straws. 

If  straw  braid  on  a  hat  is  faded,  the  hat  may  be  ripped  apart 
and  the  braid  dyed  and  sewed  into  a  new  shape.  Several  good 
color  liquids  that  dye  the  straw  instantly  and  finish  it  in  one 
operation  are  now  on  the  market.  Sometimes  an  old  hat  that 
has  faded  and  lost  its  stiffness  may  be  freshened  for  another 
season  with  a  coating  of  color  liquid.  Brushing  with  alcohol 
will  often  brighten  a  black  straw  hat. 

A  straw  hat  may  be  bleached  by  being  exposed  in  a  closed 
chamber  to  the  fumes  of  burning  sulfur.  An  old  flour  barrel 
is  often  used  for  this  purpose  by  milliners.  The  sulfur  is 
ignited  on  a  fire  shovel  or  a  metal  dish  placed  on  the  ground. 
The  hat,  which  has  been  sponged  well  in  water,  is  hung  in  the 
I  barrel,  and  the  barrel  is  turned  over  the  burning  sulfur  for 
a  few  hours. 

To  clean  leghorns,  panamas,  milans,  and  other  fine  straws, 
a  solution  of  oxalic  acid  may  be  used  in  the  proportion  of  one 
I  teaspoon  of  oxalic  acid  to  one  pint  of  water.  The  straw  should  be 
i  brushed  thoroughly  and  rinsed  immediately  in  clear  hot  water. 
|;  As  much  moisture  as  possible  should  be  wiped  off,  and  the  hat 
I  hung  to  dry  in  the  heat  or  fresh  air.   When  it  is  nearly  dry, 
i  it  should  be  pressed  in  shape  with  a  hot  iron,  muslin  being  placed 
I  between  the  iron  and  the  hat.   If  a  mushroom  shape  is  desired, 
the  hat  should  be  held  with  the  crown  up  during  the  pressing, 
and  the  brim  should  be  stretched  slightly  while  being  pressed, 
bit  by  bit.    If  a  flat  brim  is  desired,  the  hat  should  be  pressed 
i  flat  on  the  edge  of  a  table,  the  crown  being  allowed  to  come 
i  below  the  table  top.    Afterwards  it  should  be  laid  flat  on  the 
I  table,  weights  should  be  placed  on  the  brim,  and  it  should  be  left 
I  until  it  is  perfectly  dry.   Crowns  should  be  pressed  with  a  small 
i  iron  on  the  inside.    A  sleeve-board  is  very  convenient  for  this 
i  pressing.    A  white  straw  that  has  been  sun-burned  may  be 
made  yellow  by  being  placed  for  a  few  moments  in  a  strong  solu- 
tion of  soda  and  water.   The  hat  should  then  be  shaken  to 
remove  the  water  and  pressed  under  a  thin  cloth  until  it  is 
dry. 


402 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Flowers. 

Flowers  may  be  trimmed  along  the  edges  and  retouched  with 
water  color  paints  or  oil  paints  mixed  with  gasoline.  Flowers 
made  of  silk,  muslin,  sateen,  or  velvet  can  be  freshened  by  being 
shaken  gently  over  a  steaming  cloth. 

Ribbons. 

Ribbons  may  be  cleaned  with  gasohne  or  washed  with  soap 
and  water.  If  they  are  to  be  washed,  they  should  be  stretched 
on  a  clean  table,  scrubbed  with  a  soft  brush  dipped  in  neutral 
soapsuds  and  rinsed  in  clear  water.  In  the  rinsing,  the  ribbon 
should  be  kept  smooth  and  straight,  and  the  water  should  be 
pressed  out  by  running  the  hand  down  the  ribbon.  The  ribbon 
should  then  be  stretched  on  the  table  again  and  allowed  to  dry. 
Ribbons  washed  in  this  way  need  only  a  slight  pressing  with  a 
warm  iron. 

Velvet. 

Velvet  may  be  cleaned  by  being  sprinkled  thoroughly  with 
magnesia  or  cornmeal  and  allowed  to  stand  for  twenty-four 
hours.  It  should  then  be  brushed  with  a  soft  brush.  A  second 
application  of  the  cleaning  agent  may  be  necessary. 

Another  way  of  cleaning  velvet  is  to  steam  it.  This  also  re- 
moves any  folds.  A  hot  iron  is  placed  so  that  it  rests  on  the 
handle,  and  the  base  is  covered  with  a  wet  cloth.  The  velvet 
is  then  passed  over  the  iron,  the  wrong  side  of  it  being  held  next 
the  wet  cloth.  In  this  way  the  steam  is  forced  up  through  the 
pile.  As  the  steam  is  passing  through,  the  velvet  should  be 
brushed  gently  with  a  soft  brush. 

Laces. 

Laces  should  be  washed  according  to  the  directions  given  on 
page  272.  Ecru  lace  may  be  washed  in  the  same  way  as  white 
lace,  but  it  should  be  rinsed  in  a  weak  infusion  of  tea  or  coffee. 
Gold  or  silver  lace  may  be  freshened  by  brushing  it  with  alco- 
hol or  gasoline. 


MILLINERY 


403 


Feathers. 

Feathers  may  be  washed  satisfactorily  in  a  good  suds  of 
white  soap  and  water.  The  feather  should  be  drawn  through  the 
hand  from  the  stem  to  the  tip  with  a  regular  stroke.  It  should 
then  be  dried  by  shaking  it  in  the  air.  Before  being  curled,  it 
should  be  steamed  by  being  held  with  the  back  toward  the 
steam  from  the  spout  of  a  teakettle.  The  feather  should  not 
be  allowed  to  become  wet.  While  it  is  damp,  the  stem  may  be 
shaped  in  any  desired  way.  The  feather  should  be  held  with  the 
right  side  up.  It  is  then  curled  by  having  three  or  four  fibers 
at  a  time  drawn  over  a  dull  knife,  with  a  quick  downward  and 
inward  curving  stroke.  Work  should  progress  from  the  large 
end  toward  the  tip. 

Veils, 

Veils  may  be  washed  in  warm  soapsuds  in  the  same  way  as 
laces  are  washed.  Black  veils  should  be  rinsed  finally  in  a  strong 
infusion  of  black  tea  to  which  gum  arable  has  been  added  in  the 
proportion  of  two  teaspoons  of  powdered  gum  arable  to  one 
pint  of  water.  Veils  should  be  stretched  in  shape,  pinned,  and 
dried. 

Chiffon. 

Chiffon  should  be  washed  in  a  light  suds  in  lukewarm  water. 
It  should  not  be  rubbed,  but  shaken  and  squeezed  lightly  in  the 
suds.  It  should  be  stretched  to  dry,  and  when  nearly  dry  should 
be  pressed  with  a  warm  iron  on  the  wrong  side. 

Chiffon  may  also  be  washed  in  pure  alcohol  and  stretched  to 
dry. 

White  felt. 

A  white  felt  hat  can  be  cleaned  satisfactorily  with  cornmeal 
or  magnesia.  The  hat  is  covered  with  the  substance,  and  left 
for  two  days.  The  meal  or  powder  is  then  brushed  off.  It 
may  be  necessary  to  repeat  this  process. 

Art  gum  removes  spots  that  are  not  of  long  standing. 


404  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


SIMPLE  HANDMADE  TRIMMINGS 


The  ability  to  trim  a  hat  artistically  is  a  gift.  The  placing  of 
trimming  should  be  practiced  before  a  mirror  and  the  general 
principles  of  design  thus  studied.  Ideas  may  always  be  ob- 
tained from  magazines.  Pleasing  color  combinations  in  pic- 
tures and  in  nature  are  often  the  origin  of  good  effects  in 


hats  and  costumes.  Examples  of  simple  hats  are  shown  in  | 
Plate  XV.  ^ 

Trimming  should  always  be  sewed  with  as  few  stitches  as 
possible  in  order  to  avoid  a  stiff  appearance.    Large  pins  can   i  l 
often  be  used  to  advantage.   Milliners^  glue  may  be  used  in-  I 
stead  of  stitches  for  holding  the  fabrics  of  trimmings  in 
place.  !  li 


Effective  buckles  can  be  made  by  first  cutting  a  shape  in 
buckram  and  covering  it  with  shirred  ribbon,  silk,  or  velvet. 
The  buckles  may  be  padded  slightly  with  sheet  wadding 
and  wound  with  a  lacquered  braid.  Two  such  buckles  may 
be  placed  back  to  back,  inclosing  the  edge  of  a  plaited 
ribbon. 


Fig.  115. — Simple  use  of  ribbon  to 
decorate  or  change  a  crown 
slightly.  The  ribbon  may  be 
held  in  place  by  a  basting  stitch 
of  worsted  or  silk  thread  in  a 
contrasting  color. 


Fig.  114. — Simple  decorations  possible  in 
straw  trimming. 


Buckles. 


MILLINERY 


405 


Lace  straw. 

Lace  straw  may  be  plaited  and  sewed  to  the  edge  of  a  straight 
strip  for  trimming  (Fig.  114).  The  edge  of  lace  straw  may  be 
drawn  up  to  make  a  series  of  loops  (Fig.  114). 

Ribbons, 

There  is  a  wide  range  in  the  variety  of  ribbons.  Vegetable 
silk  ribbons  are  very  satisfactory,  because  they  hold  their  color 
better  than  do  those  made  of  real  silk,  and  they  keep  their  shape 


A 


Fig.  116. — Stitches  for  folds,  for  sewing 
down   facings,  and  for  decoration. 
A,   catch    stitch;    B,   lacing  stitch* 
saddler's  stitch. 


better.  They  are  woven  as  a  heavy  grosgrain  ribbon  or  with 
long,  overshot  threads. 

The  whole  crown  may  be  covered  with  horizontal  rows  of 
ribbon,  or  vertical  rows  may  extend  from  the  tip  of  the  crown 
to  the  brim  (Fig.  115). 

Folds. 

Folds  made  of  velvet  have  many  uses.  They  are  more  easily 
manipulated  if  made  on  the  true,  bias  than  with  the  grain  of  the 
material.  For  the  simple  milliner's  fold  (Fig.  116),  the  velvet 
is  cut  twice  the  desired  width  of  the  finished  fold.  The  raw 
edges  are  brought  together  and  held  with  a  saddler's  stitch  or 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


a  catch-stitch.  The  stitches  should  not  be  drawn  so  tight  that 
they  will  show  on  the  right  side. 

The  French  fold  (Fig.  117)  is  slightly  more  decorative  than 
the  milliner's  fold.  A  strip  is  cut  three  times  as  wide  as  the 
finished  width.   One-third  of  the  strip  is  folded  up  to  the  wrong 


Fig.  117. — French  fold,  used  for  decoration 
around  crowns  and  brims 


side.  The  other  edge  is  folded  in  and  brought  down  to  meet  the 
first  edge.  The  strip  is  then  folded  once  more  on  the  line  where 
the  two  edges  meet.  It  is  sewed  in  place  with  a  slip-stitch. 
Care  must  be  taken  not  to  pull  the  thread  so  close  that  a  dent 
is  made  in  the  edge  of  the  velvet. 

The  fold  must  be  kept  even.  A  stitch  taken  through  the  fold 
will  cause  it  to  twist.  Measures  for  the  length  of  folds  are  taken 
in  the  same  way  as  for  bindings,  in  order  that  the  joining  may 
be  made  first. 

Bows. 

In  general  a  bow  is  much  more  effective  when  tied  than  when  l 
cut  and  sewed.   In  making  bows,  one  should  always  work  from  i 
side  to  side,  and  should  always  bring  the  end  of  the  ribbor 
through  the  knot  in  the  direction  in  which  the  end  was  lying 
before  the  knot  was  made. 

References 

Hammond,  Edith  Gary.   Industrial  Drawing  for  Girls.  1912. 

Y^isuf,  Anna  Ben.   The  Art  of  Millinery.   1909.  i 


PART  IV 


FOODS  AND  NUTRITION 

CHAPTER  XVII 
PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 

By  Flora  Rose 

Any  person  who  has  to  choose  the  food  that  he  is  to  eat  him= 
self  or  that  is  to  nourish  others  should  know  at  least  a  few  simple 
principles  of  food  selection.  Food  is  too  important  in  human 
welfare  to  be  chosen  in  a  haphazard  way.  Fortunately,  recent 
scientific  work  on  foods  has  done  much  to  make  it  comparatively 
easy  to  acquire  at  least  a  practical  simple  working  knowledge 
of  food  values. 

The  daily  meals  must  supply  three  things : 

1.  Fuel.  The  body  must  be  kept  warm,  and  it  must  have 
some  source  of  energy  for  the  work  which  it  must  do.  The 
greater  the  amount  of  work  which  the  body  has  to  do,  the  greater 
is  its  need  for  fuel.  If  the  food  does  not  supply  sufficient  fuel 
to  do  the  work  of  the  body,  some  of  the  body's  tissue  wiU  be 
burned  as  fuel.  If  too  much  fuel  food  is  eaten,  the  body  may 
store  some  as  fat  or  it  may  become  upset  by  it. 

2.  Building  materials.  All  the  tissues  of  the  body — muscles, 
nerves,  bones,  blood-cells — must  receive  a  constant  supply  of 
those  substances  from  which  they  are  built.  Children  cannot 
grow  without  a  liberal  supplj^  of  building  materials,  and  the 
tissues  of  grown  persons  will  deteriorate  if  they  are  not  furnished 
with  sufficient  building  material  to  keep  them  in  good  repair. 

3.  Body  regulating  substances.  The  body  not  only  needs 
fuel  and  building  material,  but  it  must  also  be  supplied  with 
substances  which  regulate  its  various  activities  and  keep  its 

407 


408 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


machinery  in  good  running  order.  These  regulating  substances 
are  necessary  to  make  the  fuel  burn  normally,  to  help  set  the 
building  materials  in  place,  to  aid  in  eliminating  the  wastes  of 
the  body,  to  enable  the  body  to  grow,  and  to  keep  its  machinery 
running  at  all.  If  no  foods  were  included  to  supply  body- 
regulating  substances  in  the  daily  meals,  the  body  would  soon 
become  damaged. 

GOOD  FOODS  FOR  SUPPLYING  THE  BODY^S  NEEDS 

To  supply  these  three  needs  of  the  body,  different  foods  are 
necessary.  The  housewife  should  know  the  function  of  the 
various  food  materials  in  order  to  make  up  a  balanced  and 
healthful  ration. 

Fuel  foods 

Foods  rich  in  starch. 

These  foods  should  supply  most  of  the  body^s  energy,  because 
starch  is  the  cheapest  and  most  abundant  of  all  fuel  foods,  and 
furthermore  the  body  can  use  more  of  this  fuel  than  any  other 
without  danger  of  injury.  All  the  starch  eaten  is  changed  to  a 
form  of  sugar  called  glucose,  before  it  reaches  the  blood  stream. 
This  change  occurs  slowly,  and  under  normal  condition  the 
machinery  of  the  body  is  amply  able  to  handle  and  transport  to 
the  tissues  the  small  amounts  of  sugar  produced  at  any  one  time. 

The  starch-rich  foods  are :  Cereals  and  cereal  foods  of  various 
kinds,  such  as  breakfast  foods — oatmeal,  cornmeal,  wheat,  rice, 
rye,  barley — and  breads;  macaroni,  tapioca,  and  other  manu- 
factured foods;  legumes,  such  as  dried  peas,  beans,  and  lentils; 
vegetables  rich  in  starch,  such  as  the  potato  and  the  dasheen. 

Foods  rich  in  fat. 

These  foods  should  supply  a  part  of  the  day's  energy.  Fat 
seems  to  be  necessary  for  two  reasons :  because  it  helps  to  regu- 
late the  rate  at  which  food  passes  along  the  digestive  tract; 
and  because  certain  fats  are  carriers  of  a  body-regulating  sub- 
stance necessary  for  growth.  Children  particularly  need  this 
type  of  fat. 

Fat-rich  foods  which  carry  growth-promoting  substances  are: 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


409 


milk,  cream,  butter,  eggs,  cod-liver  oil,  meat  fat,  to  a  certain 
extent,  and  fat  in  soybeans. 

Other  fat-rich  foods  are:  bacon,  lard,  drippings,  fat  meats, 
vegetable  oils  or  food  rich  in  oils. 

Foods  rich  in  sugar. 

Foods  containing  much  sugar  may  furnish  a  part  of  the  day's 
energy.  Sugar  as  such  is  not  an  altogether  necessary  food, 
though  it  is  very  desirable  because  it  adds  palatability  to  the 
day's  meals  and  it  is  a  quick  fuel.  It  is  not  entirely  necessary, 
since  all  the  starch  eaten  is  gradually  changed  to  a  form  of 
sugar,  glucose,  befoi'e  it  reaches  the  blood.  Large  quantities 
of  sugar  eaten  at  one  time  may  seriously  damage  the  body, 
since  its  machinery  is  not  adequate  to  care  for  large  amounts 
at  one  time.  Little  children  receive  all  the  sugar  that  is  neces- 
sary for  them  if  they  have  a  quart  of  milk  a  day.  If  more 
sugar  than  is  contained  in  one  quart  of  milk  is  used,  it  should 
be  diluted  with  other  foods  and  should  not  be  used  as  candy 
except  occasionally  as  a  dessert.  Large  quantities  of  sugar  may 
be  injurious  both  to  adults  and  to  children.  Foods  containing 
sugar  are  more  wholesome  than  sugar  as  such. 

Foods  rich  in  sugar  are:  milk,  sweet  fruits  and  vegetables, 
honey,  molasses,  sirups,  sugar  as  such,  preserves,  desserts,  candy. 

Foods  rich  in  protein. 

Protein  foods  must  always  furnish  a  part  of  the  day's  energy, 
from  10  to  15  per  cent,  not  because  the  protein  is  needed  for  the 
energy  which  it  furnishes  but  because  it  has  value  as  building 
material  for  the  body.  The  energy  which  it  gives  is  a  by- 
product. Although  protein  gives  energy,  it  should  not  be  used 
as  a  main  source  of  fuel,  since  it  is  more  scarce  and,  therefore, 
more  expensive  than  other  fuels,  and  large  amounts  may  over- 
tax the  powers  of  the  body  to  care  for  it. 

Building  foods 

There  are  many  building  materials  needed  b}^  the  body. 
Four  of  these  play  most  conspicuous  parts  and  should  be  con- 
sidered in  planning  the  day's  meals. 


410 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Protein. 

Protein  is  a  name  given  to  a  large  variety  of  substances  in 
foods.  Casein  in  milk,  albumin  in  egg,  milk,  and  meat,  gluten 
in  wheat,  are  illustrations  of  types  of  protein.  Protein  is  a  sub- 
stance necessary  to  the  building  of  all  living  parts  of  the  body. 

All  proteins  have  not  the  same  value.  Some  are  much  in- 
ferior to  others  as  tissue  builders,  and  in  some  foods  the  pro- 
teins are  of  such  poor  quality  that  they  cannot  build  tissue  until 
a  food  containing  a  better  quality  of  protein  is  combined  with 
them. 

Some  of  the  day's  protein  should  be  supplied  by  animal  foods, 
as  these  contain  the  best  quality  of  protein.  Animal  foods  used 
for  their  protein  may  replace  one  another  and  will  supplement 
the  poor  quality  of  less  valuable  .protein  foods.  Animal  foods 
that  are  valuable  sources  of  protein  are  milk,  eggs,  cheese,  and 
meat. 

Much  of  the  remainder  of  the  protein  may  be  supplied  by  cer- 
tain plant  foods.  None  of  the  foods  here  listed,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  the  soybean  and  the  peanut,  may  be  regarded  as  com- 
plete substitutes  for  an  animal  food,  since  they  contain  an 
inferior  quality  of  protein.  Some  animal  food  should  be  used 
with  them  to  improve  the  quality  of  their  protein.  Plant 
foods  that  may  be  used  to  supply  part  of  the  day's  protein  are: 
cereals  of  various  kinds,  such  as  breakfast  foods,  breads,  mac- 
aroni; legumes,  such  as  dried  peas,  beans,  and  lentils;  and 
nuts. 

A  part  of  the  day's  protein  should  be  supplied  by  fruits  and 
vegetables.  The  quantity  of  the  protein  supplied  by  vegetables 
is  small,  but  it  helps  to  improve  the  quality  of  proteins  from 
plant  foods  mentioned  above. 

Lime. 

Lime  is  a  necessary  building  material.  Many  dietaries  are 
low  in  this  substance.  If  it  is  not  supplied  in  sufficient  amounts, 
the  bony  structures  of  the  body  suffer  and  the  weffare  of  other 
tissues  is  also  interfered  with.  It  is  possible  that  the  hard 
water  of  many  locahties  helps  to  protect  the  body  against  the 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


411 


nutritive  disaster  of  a  lime-poor  diet.  This  should  not  be 
depended  on,  however,  Many  children,  and  adults  also,  suffer 
from  poor  teeth  because  of  a  lack  of  lime  in  the  diet. 

The  most  valuable  lime  foods  are:  milk,  the  cheapest  lime 
food  (a  glass  of  milk  contains  more  lime  than  a  glass  of  saturated 
solution  of  lime);  cheese;  and  eggs. 

Next  in  lime  value  are  leaves  and  stems  of  plants,  such  as 
spinach,  Swiss  chard,  lettuce,  celery,  onions,  cabbage.  The  dis- 
advantage of  using  these  latter  foods  as  a  main  source  of  lime 
is  that  they  are  too  bulky  to  be  eaten  in  the  needed  amounts. 

Iron. 

Iron  is  a  necessary  building  material.  An  iron-poor  diet 
means  a  poor  quality  of  blood,  weakened  tissues,  and  a  run- 
down body.    Many  dietaries  are  poor  in  iron. 

The  most  valuable  iron  foods  are:  green  vegetables,  the  most 
valuable  source;  fruits  and  vegetables  in  general;  breakfast 
foods  and  breads  made  from  meals  which  include  the  whole 
cereal  grain,  the  cheapest  source;  eggs,  which  are  excellent  but 
expensive;  meat,  rich  in  iron,  but  the  value  of  its  iron  has  been 
questioned. 

Phosphorus. 

Phosphorus  is  a  necessary  building  material.  If  enough 
animal  food,  whole  cereal  grains,  and  legumes  are  used  in  the 
dietary,  it  will  not  lack  phosphorus. 

Foods  that  are  best  to  supply  phosphorus  are:  milk,  eggs, 
meat,  breakfast  foods  and  bread  made  from  the  whole  grain, 
dried  peas,  beans,  and  lentils. 

Regulating  foods 

Just  as  much  attention  should  be  paid  to  selecting  body- 
regulating  foods  as  to  fuel  and  building  foods.  Fortunately 
there  is  an  overlapping  of  all  three  of  these  needs,  and  a  single 
food  often  suppUes  several. 

Regulating  foods  should  be  selected  from  each  of  the  follow- 
ing groups :  Foods  containing  laxative  substances,  as  fruits  and 
vegetables,  breakfast  foods  and  breads  made  from  the  whole 


412  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


grain;  foods  containing  needed  salts,  acids  or  flavors,  as  fruits 
and  vegetables;  foods  containing  two  unknown  factors,  which 
have  been  called  vitamines  and  growth-promoting  factors, 
both  of  which  are  necessary  for  health  and  for  growth. 

Growth-promoting  factors 

The  first  unknown  factor,  or  vitamine,  essential  for  growth 
and  health,  often  called  the  fat-soluble  growth-promoting  sub- 
stance, is  found,  in  amounts  sufficient  for  human  needs,  dis- 
solved in  the  fat  of  certain  foods  such  as  milk,  butter,  cream, 
eggs,  meat  (if  enough  of  it  is  eaten),  cod-liver  oil,  soybeans.  The 
following  foods  contain  this  unknown  substance,  or  vitamine, 
in  amounts  which  will  help;  they  are  too  bulky  to  be  used  as  its 
main  source  by  the  human  being,  but  as  a  class  they  are  the 
main  source  of  this  important  substance  in  the  diet  of  most  of 
the  domestic  animals :  leaves  and  stems  of  plants,  such  as  spin- 
ach, Swiss  chard,  dandelion  greens,  cabbage,  onion,  celery. 

The  second  unknown  factor,  or  vitamine,  essential  for  health 
and  growth  is  soluble  in  water  and  is  found  in  amounts  sufficient 
for  human  needs  in  milk,  eggs,  breakfast  foods  and  breads  made 
from  the  whole  cereal  grain,  peas,  beans,  and  lentils.  In  fact, 
this  substance  is  found  in  practically  all  naturally  occurring 
foods.  It  is  often  called  the  water-soluble  growth-promoting 
substance. 

HOW  TO  ESTIMATE  THE  DAILY  NEED  OF  FUEL 

It  is  not  possible  in  any  simple  way  to  estimate  the  daily  fuel 
need  with  entire  accuracy.  The  approximate  fuel  need  may  be 
easily  estimated,  however.  To  do  this,  it  is  necessary  to  have 
some  understanding  of  the  unit  which  measures  the  energy 
value  of  foods.  Many  units  of  measure  are  familiar  to  the 
average  person:  the  ounce  and  pound  as  units  of  weight,  the 
pint  and  quart  as  units  of  volume,  the  inch  and  foot  and  yard 
as  units  of  distance,  the  degree  as  a  unit  of  temperature.  These 
units  are  used  again  and  again  until  the  mind  remembers  the 
approximate  amounts  they  measure.  The  same  must  be  true 
of  the  unit  of  measure  for  the  fuel  value  of  foods.   It  is  a  basis 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


413 


by  which  one  may  compare  one  food  with  another  and  with 
which  one  may  measure  the  individual  fuel  needs. 

The  unit  of  measure  for  the  fuel  value  of  foods  is  the  calorie. 
If  a  given  portion  of  food  has  a  fuel  value  of  100  calories  and  in  a 
day  2,000  calories  are  needed,  one  immediately  begins  to  ap- 
praise the  fuel  value  of  that  food.  For  all  practical  purposes  the 
following  tables  are  very  serviceable  in  giving  an  approximate 
estimate  of  daily  fuel  needs. 

The  average  adult  person  spends  about  the  following  amounts 
of  energy  under  stated  conditions : 

Asleep  }/2  calorie  an  hour  for  each 

pound  of  body  weight 

Sitting  (reading,  sewing,  knitting)  3/5  calorie  an  hour  for  each 

pound  of  body  weight 

Standing  ^  calorie  an  hour  for  each 

pound  of  body  weight 

Light  exercise  (dish- washing,  cooking  for 
small  family,  bed-making,  sewing  by  foot 
power,  walking  at  moderate  pace  on  level 

road)  1   calorie  an  hour  for  each 

pound  of  body  weight 

Moderate  exercise  (cooking  for  large  family, 
sweeping,  ironing,  scrubbing  by  hand, 
work  of  carpenters,  meat  carvers,  house 

workers)  1 3^  to  1 calories  an  hour  for 

each  pound  of  body  weight 

Active  exercise  (cooking  for  large  groups, 
ironing  and  scrubbing  with  heavy  imple- 
ments, work  of  farmers,  masons,  black- 
smiths) 1^  to  2  calories  an  hour  for 

each  pound  of  body  weight. 

Severe  exercise  (heavy  muscular  exercise, 
such  as  that  done  by  lumbermen,  ex- 
cavators, and  stevedores)  3  or  more  calories  an  hour 

for  each  pound  of  body  weight 


414 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


The  average  child  spends  about  the  following  amounts  of 
energy : 

Calories  a 
pound  each  day 

For  first  3  months .  45-50 

For  second  3  months  40-45 

For  third  3  months   40 

For  fourth  3  months  35-40 

For  2d  year   40 

For  3rd  and  4th  years  35-40 

For  5th  year  35-37 

For  6th  year  34-35 

For  7th  year  32-34 

For  8th  year  30-35 

For  10th  to  12th  years  28-32 

For  12th  to  14th  years  ;  25-30 

For  14th  to  17th  years  20-25 

A  simple  way  of  estimating  adult  needs  is  as  follows : 

The  average  adult  spends: 

Calories  a 
pound  each  day 

At  complete  rest  14-16 

Light  exercise  16-18 

Moderate  exercise  18-20 

Hard  exercise  20-23 

The  100-calorie  portion  is  the  short  cut  in  dietary  calculations. 
With  the  knowledge  of  100-calorie  portions  of  common  foods, 
it  is  very  simple  to  estimate  the  fuel  value  of  a  given  meal  or  of 
a  day's  meals.  Plate  XVI  and  Tables  XVI  to  XXI  will  be  of 
service  in  learning  to  make  this  estimate. 


HOW  TO  ESTIMATE  THE  DAILY  NEED  OF  PROTEIN 

The  average  daily  allowance  of  protein  may  be  estimated  in 
two  ways.   Both  have  disadvantages  as  well  as  good  points. 

One  way  of  estimating  the  protein  allowance  is  on  the  basis 
of  the  actual  amount  of  protein  needed  in  a  day.  The  average 
adult  probably  needs  daily  about  2  or  3  ounces  of  protein.  Or 
to  state  the  matter  in  a  more  accurate  way,  the  protein  in  the 
day's  meals  should  furnish  daily  2  to  23^  calories  for  each  pound 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


415 


of  body  weight.  If  animal  proteins  are  generously  represented, 
the  lesser  amount  may  be  adequate.  For  economy  not  more  than 
one-third  of  the  total  protein  in  the  adult  diet  should  be  furnished 
by  animal  foods.  Less  than  this  may  be  used.  One  egg,  one  glass 
of  milk,  and  an  ounce  of  cheese  or  a  small  piece  of  meat,  give 
a  liberal  amount  of  animal  protein  in  a  day.  Less  than  this 
may  be  sufficient.  If  plant  proteins  predominate  largely,  the 
greater  amount  may  be  needed.  About  one-third  of  the  daily 
protein  should  be  taken  from  the  cereal  grains — wheat,  corn, 
rye,  oats,  rice,  barley.  After  the  allowances  for  animal  and 
cereal  proteins  have  been  made,  the  remainder  of  the  protein 
may  come  from  nuts,  legumes,  and  fruits  and  vegetables.  If 
wise  combinations  of  animal  and  plant  proteins  are  made,  the 
amount  needed  will  probably  lie  between  the  two  extremes. 

Another  way  of  estimating  the  protein  allowance  is  on  the 
basis  of  the  proportion  of  total  calories  which  protein  should 
furnish.  The  average  adult  should  receive  daily  from  protein 
10  to  15  per  cent  of  the  total  calories  in  his  food.  If  plant  pro- 
teins predominate,  15  per  cent  of  the  total  calories  should  be 
furnished  by  protein:  If  the  number  of  calories  needed  is  great 
because  of  much  exercise,  only  10  per  cent,  or  even  less,  of  the 
total  calories  need  be  furnished  by  protein. 

The  tables  of  100-calorie  portions  (Tables  XVI-XXI)  may  be 
used  in  estimating  the  amount  of  protein  food  that  is  required 
to  meet  the  needs  of  the  body,  since  one  column  states  the 
number  of  calories  a  given  food  supplies  in  the  form  of  protein. 

HOW    TO    ESTIMATE    THE    DAILY    NEED    OF    LIME,    IRON  AND 
PHOSPHORUS 

It  is  more  difficult  to  estimate  the  daily  need  for  lime,  iron, 
and  phosphorus  than  for  energy  and  protein.  Yet  these  are  no 
less  important  than  energy  and  protein,  and  some  quantita- 
tive estimates  have  been  made. 

In  general,  however,  if  liberal  amounts  of  foods  that  contain 
lime,  iron,  and  phosphorus  are  included  in  the  daily  meals,  it  is 
unnecessary  to  make  any  quantitative  estimates.  The  following 
figures  are  given  as  a  matter  of  interest  and  general  information : 


416 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


I 


Average  family  per  capita  allowance  of  lime  a  day  0.70  to  1.0  grams 

Average  family  per  capita  allowance  of  iron  a  day. .; ...  .0.13  to  .15  grams 
Average  family  per  capita  allowa,nce  of  phosphorus  a  day  2.75  to  3.0  grams 

TABLE  XVI. — 100-Calorie  Portion  of  Foods  Rich  in  Starch  ^ 


Food  materials 


Beans,  dried.  .  .  . 
Bread 

Average  white . 

Whole  wheat .  . 
Corn 

Starch  

Meal  

Flakes.  ...... 

Hominy  

Puffed  

Macaroni  

Oats,  rolled  

Peas,  dried  

Potatoes 

White  

Sweet  

Rice 

Polished  

Puffed  

Wheat 

Cracked 

Shredded  

Puffed  

Wheat  flour 

Patent  

Entire  

Graham  


Approximate 
measure  of 
100-calorie 
portion 


2  tablespoonf uls . 


Slice  1x3x3  inches 
Shce  1x3x3  inches 


3  tablespoonf  uls .  . 
3  tablespoonf  uls .  . 

1 3^  cupfuls  

3  tablespoonf  uls .  . 

l}i  cupfuls  

3^  cupful  

1/3  cupful,  scant. 
2  tablespoonfuls . . 


1  medium . 
1  small.  .  . 


2  tablespoonfuls . 
1  1/3  cupfuls.  .  .  . 


2^2  tablespoonfuls . 

1  biscuit  

12/3  cupfuls  


3^  cupful  

3^  cupful  

3^  cupful,  scant . 


Number 

of 
calories 
furnished 

by 
protein 

Weight 

in 
ounces 

as 
bought 

26. 1 

1.0 

14.0 

1.3 

15.8 

1.4 

0.0 

1.0 

10.4 

1.0 

6.1 

1.0 

9.4 

1.0 

6.0 

1.0 

14.8 

1.0 

16. 1 

.9 

27.7 

1.0 

10.6 

5.3 

5.8 

3.6 

9.1 

1.0 

9.1 

1.0 

12.3 

1.0 

14.0 

1.0 

15.0 

1.0 

12.7 

1.0 

15.4 

1.0 

12.7 

1.0 

1  Some  of  the  measurements  in  Tables  XVI  to  XX  were  made  by  Miriam 
Birdseye,  while  others  were  compiled  from  various  sources  including  Feed- 
ing the  Family,  by  Mary  Swartz  Rose.  The  other  data  in  these  tables 
are  based  on  the  table  of  100-calorie  portions  in  Food  Products,  by  Henry 
C.  Sherman. 


^Pi,ATE  XVI. — Showing  100-calorie  portions  of  some  common  foods.  Top,  reading  from 
left  to  right:  1  and  2,  whey;  3,  evaporated  milk;  4,  condensed  milk  (sweetened);  5  and  6, 
skimmed-milk;  7,  whole  milk;  8,  18-per-cent  cream;  9,  40-per-cent  cream.  Center,  reading 
from  back  to  front:  spinach,  cream,  olive  oil,  peanut  butter,  butter,  lard,  cocoa,  chocolate, 
potato,  shredded  codfish,  egg,  gelatin,  Cheddar  cheese,  navy  beans,  rolled  oats,  bread, 
crackers,  shredded  wheat,  macaroni,  wheat  flour,  rhubarb,  molasses,  cranberries,  oranges, 
onions,  carrots,  lettuce,  bananas,  prunes,  dates,  raisins,  sugar.  Bottom,  10O;-calorie  por- 
tions of  foods,  raw  and  cooked.  Sugar  has  not  been  added  to  the  foods  ordinarily  requiring 
it.  Foods  in  rows  1  and  3  are  cooked;  those  in  rows  2  and  4  are  raw.  Reading  from  back 
to  front:  gelatin,  cornmeal,  tapioca,  macaroni,  rolled  oats,  cream  of  wheat,  navy  beans, 
spinach,  rhubarb,  cranberries,  onions,  apples,  prunes,  lima  beans. 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


417 


TABLE  XVII. — 100-Calorie  Portions  of  Foods  Rich  in  Sugar 


Food  materials 


Approximate 
measure  of 
100-calorie 
portion 


Number 

of 
calories 
furnished 
by 
protein 


Lump . 


1  large  

1  medium  

4  large  

large  

Medium  bunch  

1  tablespoonful  

3  large  

1  ^2  tablespoonf uls .  .  . 

1  very  large  

3  large  

4  large  

}i  cupful  

11/3  cupfuls  

2  tables  poonf  als, 
scant    

3J^  lumps  


2.6 
5.3 
2.4 
5.4 
5.4 
.5 
9.0 
3.3 
6.2 
6.8 
2.8 
3.0 
10.2 


0.0 
0.0 


418 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


TABLE  XVIII. — 100-Calorie  Portions  of  Succulent  Vegetables 


Number 

Approximate 

of 

Weight 

measure  of 

calories 

in 

100-calorie 

furnished 

ounces 

portions 

by 

as 

protein 

bought 

3  medium  

13 

9 

9.6 

3^  medium  head  .... 

20 

3 

13.3 

3  medium  

9 

7 

10.1 

4  cupfuls  of  Ji-inch 

pieces  

23 

7 

23.7 

33 

5 

9.2 

2  large 

18 

4 

23.5 

2  large  heads  

25 

1 

22.3 

3  medium  

13 

2 

8.0 

l}/2  medium  

9 

9 

6.8 

^  cupful  

28 

0 

6.4 

M  cupful,  drained .  .  . 

26 

1 

6.4 

4  cupfuls  of  1-inch 

pieces  

10 

4 

25.2 

2  quarts,  approxi- 

mately   

35 

2 

14.8 

12 

2 

15.6 

4  small  

15 

8 

15.5 

1%  cupfuls.  

21 

2 

15.6 

2  cupfuls  of  3^-inch 

cubes  

13 

2 

12.9 

Food  materials 


Beets  

Cabbage  

Carrots  

Celery  

Chard,  Swiss  

Cucumbers  

Lettuce  

Onions  

Parsnips  

Peas 

Fresh  shelled  

Canned  

Rhubarb  

Spinach,  edible  portion 

Squash  

Tomatoes 

Fresh  

Canned  

Turnips  


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


419 


TABLE  XIX. — 100-Calorie  Portions  of  Foods  Rich  in  Fat 


Food  TnGtcTtdls 

Approximate 
measure  of 
100-calorie 
portions 

Number 

of 
calories 
furnished 
by 
protein 

Weight 

in 
ounces 

as 
bought 

Bacon 

Raw  

2  thin  slices  

6.7 

.6 

Cooked  

4  thin  slices  

Butter  

1  tablespoonful  

.5 

.5 

Chocolate,  unsweetened  .  . 

8.4 

.6 

Cocoa  

3  tablcspoonfuls  

17.4 

.7 

Cream,  18.5  per  cent  

14:  cupful  

5.1 

1.8 

Cream,  40  per  cent  

11/3  tablespoonfuls. . 

2.3 

.9 

Lard  

1  tablespoonful,  scant 

0.0 

.4 

on 

Olive  

1  tablespoonful,  scant 

0.0 

.4 

Cottonseed  

1  tablespoonful,  scant 

0.0 

.4 

Corn  

1  tablespoonful,  scant 

0.0 

.4 

Peanut  

1  tablespoonful,  scant 

0.0 

.4 

Olives  

6  to  8  

1.5 

1.6 

Peanut  butter  

11/5  tablespoonfuls  . 

19.4 

.6 

Walnuts,  shelled  California 

10.4 

.5 

420  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


TABLE  XX. — 100-Calorie  Portions  of  Foods  Rich  in  Protein 


Food  materials 


Beef,  lean  round .  . 
Cheese 

Dairy  (cheddar) . 

Cottage  

Chickens,  broilers 
Codfish 

Salted  

Dressed  fresh .  .  . 
Eggs  in  shell  


Fowls  

Ham 

Smoked  

Fresh  lean .  .  . 
Lamb 

Fore  quarter . 

Hind  quarter . 
Milk 

Whole  

Skimmed.  .  .  . 
Salmon 

Canned  

Fresh  

Veal,  lean  


Approximate 
measure  of 
100-calorie 
portions 


1-inch  cube . 
1/3  cupful.  . 


1  very  large  or  11/3 
average  


2/3  cupful,  scant . 
1  1/8  cupfuls  .  ...  . 


1/2  cupful,  scant. 


Number 

of 
calories 
furnished 

by 
protein 


54.5 

2.5 

24.2 

.8 

76.2 

3.2 

79.6 

5.5 

97  . 6 

96.0 

7.6 

36.2 

2.7 

34.5 

2.1 

29.7 

1.5 

44.0 

1.6 

24.2 

1.4 

31.4 

1.7 

19.0 

5.1 

37.0 

9.6 

44.5 

2.4 

43.3 

2.5 

54.1 

3.0 

PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


421 


TABLE  XXI.— Table  of  100  Food  Units  i 


"Portion''  contain- 

Wt. 0 

f  100 

Calories 

ing  1 00  food  units 

calories  (02.) 

furnished 

(approx.) 

by  protein 

Small  serving 

1 

30 

40 

Large  serving 

2 

20 

90 

Small  serving 

1 

60 

60 

Half  serving 

65 

12 

Small  serving 

1 

20 

25 

^ery  small  serving 

88 

18 

Small  serving 

1 

10 

27 

Very  small  serving 

87 

21 

4 

00 

19 

One  thin  slice 

96 

23 

One  small  chop 

96 

24 

Ord.  serving 

1 

80 

40 

Large  serving 

1 

20 

35 

Small  servdng 

73 

14 

Ord,  serving 

1 

10 

28 

Small  serving 

96 

19 

Small  serving 

1 

20 

33 

Small  serving 

99 

23 

Large  serving 

2 

40 

73 

Ord.  serving 

1 

80 

40 

Small  serving 

1 

10 

22 

Small  steak 

1 

30 

32 

Small  steak 

1 

40 

31 

Ord.  serving 

1 

80 

42 

Ord.  serving 

2" 

(20 

54 

Ord.  serving 

2^ 

20 

47 

14 

00 

78 

Large  serving 

3 

20 

79 

12  to  16 

7 

40 

56 

Two  servings 

4 

90 

95 

Half  serving 

88 

16 

Ord.  serving 

2 

80 

61 

Two  sm.  servings 

2 

80 

61 

Two  servings 

4 

10 

78 

Ord.  serving 

2 

00 

50 

Ord.  serving 

1 

80 

41 

One  dozen 

6 

80 

49 

Very  small  serving 

97 

18 

Small  ser\'ing 

1 

30 

29 

Small  serving 

53 

6 

Small  serving 

1 

50 

30 

Ord.  serving 

2 

10 

46 

Two  small  servings 

3 

60 

80 

Two  small  servings 

1 

20 

29 

15 

00 

14 

19 

00 

33 

7 

19 

18 

Small  side  dish 

2 

66 

21 

Large  side  dish 

4 

44 

21 

Five  servings 

16 

66 

15 

Three  servings 

8 

70 

2 

11 

00 

20 

7 

60 

10 

Two  servings 

5 

81 

10 

11 

00 

23 

19 

00 

24 

One  side  dish 

3 

50 

13 

Name  of  food 


Cooked  bleats 

Beef,  round,  boiled  (fat)  

Beef,  round,  boiled  (lean)  

Beef,  round,  boiled  (med.)  

Beef,  5th  rib,  roasted,  

Beef,  5th  rib,  roasted,  

Beef,  5th  rib,  roasted,  

Beef,  ribs,  boiled,  

Beef,  ribs,  boiled,  

Calves'-foot  jelly  

Chicken,  canned  

Lamb  chops,  boiled  av  

Lamb,  leg,  roasted  

Mutton,  leg,  boiled,  

Pork,  ham,  boiled  (fat),  

Pork,  ham,  boiled,  

Pork,  ham,  roasted  (fat) ,  

Pork,  ham,  roasted  (lean),  

Turkey  as  purchased  canned  

Veal,  leg,  boiled,  

Uncooked  Meats,  Edible  Portion 

Beef,  loin,  av.  (lean)  

Beef,  loin,  av.  (fat)  

Beef,  loin,  porterhouse  steak,  av  

Beef,  loin,  sirloin  steak,  av  

Beef,  ribs,  lean,  av  

Beef,  round,  lean,  av  

Beef,  tongue,  av  

Beef,  juice  

Chickens  (broilers)  av  

Clams,  r'nd  in  shell,  av  

Cod  (whole)  

Goose  (young)  av  

Halibut  steaks,  av  

Liver  (veal) ,  av  

Lobster  (whole),  av  

Mackerel  (Span.),  whole,  av  

iVIutton  leg,  hind,  lean,  av  

Oysters  in  shell,  av  

Pork,  loin,  chops,  av  

Pork,  ham,  lean,  av  

Pork,  bacon,  med.  fat,  av  

Salmon  (Cal.),  av  

Shad,  whole,  av  

Trout,  brook,  whole,  av  

Turkey,  av  

Vegetables 

Artichokes,  av.,  canned  

Asparagus,  av.,  canned  

Asparagus,  av.,  cooked  

Beans,  baked,  canned  

Beans,  Uma,  canned  

Beans,  string,  cooked  

Beets,  edible  portion,  cooked  

Cabbage,  edible  portion  

Carrots,  edible  portion,  fresh  

Carrots,  cooked  

Cauliflower,  as  purchased  

Celery,  edible  portion  

Corn,  sweet,  cooked  


Irving  Fisher,  The  Journal  of  the  American  Medical  Association,  48:16. 


422  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


TABLE  XXI.— Table  of  100  Food  Units— Con^d. 


Name  of  food 

 '  .  . 

"Portion"  contain- 
ing 100  food  units 
(approx.) 

Wt.  c 

calorie 

)/ 100 

S   (02". ) 

Calories 
furnished 
by  protein 

Cucumbers,  edible  portion  

20 

.00 

18 

Eggplant,  edible  portion  

12 

.00 

17 

Lentils,  cooked  

3 

.15 

27 

Lettuce,  edible  portion  

18 

.00 

25 

Mushrooms,  as  purchased  

7 

.60 

31 

Onions,  fresh,  edible  portion  

7 

10 

13 

Two  large  servings 

8 

40 

12 

Parsnips,  edible  portion  

One  one-half  servings 

5 

30 

10 

5 

84 

10 

Peas,  green,  canned  

Two  servings 

6 

30 

25 

Peas,  green,  cooked  

One  serving 

3 

00 

23 

One  good  sized 

3 

05 

11 

Potatoes,  boiled  

One  large  sized 

3 

62 

11 

Potatoes,  mashed,  (creamed)  

One  serving 

3 

14 

10 

Potatoes,  steamed  

One  serving 

3 

57 

11 

Potatoes,  chips  

One-half  serving 

60 

4 

Potatoes,  sweet,  cooked  

Half  av.  potato 

1 

70 

6 

Pumpkins,  edible  portion  

13 

00 

15 

Radishes,  as  purchased  

17 

00 

18 

Rhubarb,  edible  portion  

15 

00 

10 

Spinach,  cooked  

Two  ord.  servings 

6 

10 

15 

Squash,  edible  portion  

7 

40 

12 

Succotash,  canned  

Ord.  serving 

3 

50 

15 

Tomatoes,  fresh  as  purchased  

Four  av.  servings 

15 

00 

15 

Tomatoes,  canned  

15 

20 

21 

Turnips,  edible  portion  

Two  large  servings 

8 

70 

13 

Vegetable  oysters  

9 

62 

10 

Fruits  (Dried) 

1 

20 

3 

Apricots  as  purchased  

1 

24 

7 

Dates,  edible  portion  

Three  large 

99 

2 

Dates  as  purchased  

1 

10 

2 

Figs,  edible  portion  

One  large 

1 

10 

5 

Prunes,  edible  portion  

Three  large 

1 

14 

3 

Prunes  as  purchased  ;  

1 

35 

3 

Raisins,  edible  portion  

1 

00 

3 

Raisins  as  purchased  

1 

10 

3 

Fruits  (Fresh  or  Cooked) 

Apples  as  purchased  

Two  apples 

7 

30 

3 

Apples,  baked  

Ord.  serving 

3 

30 

2 

Apples,  sauce  

3 

90 

2 

Apricots,  edible  portion  

5 

92 

8 

Apricots,  cooked  

Large  serving 

4 

61 

6 

Bananas,  edible  portion  

One  large 

3 

50 

5 

Blackberries  

5 

90 

9 

4 

60 

3 

Blueberries,  canned  •.  

5 

80 

4 

Cantaloupe  

Half  ord.  serving 

8 

60 

6 

Cherries,  edible  portion  

4 

40 

5 

Cranberries  as  purchased  

7 

50 

3 

Grapes  as  purchased,  av  

4 

80 

5 

Grape  fruit  

7 

57 

7 

4 

20 

Q 

Gooseberries  

9 

20 

5 

Lemons  

7 

57 

9 

8 

77 

0 

5 

18 

4 

About  seven 

1 

31 

2 

Oranges  as  purchased,  av  

One  very  large 

9 

40 

6 

Large  glass 

6 

62 

0 

Peaches  as  purchased,  av  

Three  ordinary 

10 

00 

7 

PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


423 


TABLE  XXI.— Table  of  100  Food  Units— Cont'd. 


Name  of  food 


' '  Portion ' '  contain- 
ing 100  food  units 
(approx.) 

Wt.  c 
calorie 

/  100 
s  (oz.) 

Calories 
furnished 
by  protein 

Ord.  serving 

4 

78 

4 

Ord.  glass 

4 

80 

0 

One  large 

5 

40 

4 

3 

98 

3 

8 

00 

4 

5 

18 

10 

6 

29 

8 

Two  servings 

9 

10 

10 

27 

00 

6 

44 

0.5 

1}4  glasses 

9 

70 

34 

l}4  cubic  in. 

77 

25 

4  cubic  in. 

3 

12 

76 

82 

25 

13^  cubic  in. 

1 

05 

22 

1}4  cubic  in. 

80 

25 

l}/2  cubic  in. 

72 

25 

^  ord.  glass 

1 

70 

5 

■  6 

70 

21 

1 

06 

10 

2 

05 

24 

13^  glass 

9 

40 

37 

Small  glass 

4 

90 

19 

Two  glasses 

13 

00 

15 

3^  ord.  sq.  piece 

98 

7 

K  ord.  sq.  piece 

96 

6 

Small  piece 

89 

7 

2 

51 

19 

Ord.  cup 

4 

29 

26 

Two-thirds  ord. 

2 

45 

9 

Half  a  doughnut 

80 

6 

95 

10 

82 

6 

One-third  piece 

1 

30 

5 

1 

10 

5 

One-third  piece 

1 

90 

9 

One-third  piece 

1 

35 

6 

One-fourth  piece 

1 

20 

8 

One-third  piece 

1 

90 

10 

3 

02 

6 

Half  ord.  serving 

2 

00 

7 

Very  small  serving 

2 

65 

8 

Half  ord.  serving 

2 

00 

12 

Small  serving 

2 

80 

1 

Ord.  serving 

3 

85 

1 

Q 

00 

10 

Four  teaspoons 

1 

05 

1 

1 

00 

0.5 

1 

20 

0.5 

5-7  olives 

1 

10 

1 

5-7  olives 

1 

30 

2 

14 

60 

18 

Three  heaping  tea- 

spoons ov  1}4  lumps 

86 
03 

0 

Four  teaspoons 

1 

0 

Four  teaspoons 

1 

20 

0 

Eight  to  fifteen 

53 

13 

Peaches,  sauce  

Peaches,  juice  

Pears  

Pears,  sauce  

Pineapples,  edible  portion,  av  

Raspberries,  black  

Raspberries,  red  

Strawberries,  av  

Watermelon,  av  

Dairy  Products 

Butter,  ordinary  pat  

Buttermilk  

Cheese,  Am.  pale  

Cheese,  cottage  

Cheese,  full  cream  

Cheese,  Neufchatel  

Cheese,  Swiss  

Cheese,  pineapple  

Cream  

Kumyss  

Milk,  condensed,  sweetened  

Milk,  condensed,  unsweetened  

Milk,  skimmed  *.  . 

Milk,  whole  

Whey  

Cakes,  Pastry,  Puddings,  and  Desserts 

Cake,  chocolate  layer  

Cake,  gingerbread  

Cake,  sponge  

Custard,  caramel  

Custard,  milk  

Custard,  tapioca  

Doughnuts  

Lady  fingers  

Macaroons  

Pie,  apple  

Pie,  cream  

Pie,  custard  

Pie,  lemon  

Pie,  mince  

Pie,  squash  

Pudding,  apple  sage  

Pudding,  brown  betty  

Pudding,  cream  rice  

Pudding,  Indian  meal  

Pudding,  apple  tapioca  

Tapioca,  cooked  

Sweets  and  Pickles 

Catchup,  tomato,  av  

Honey  

Marmalade,  orange  

Molasses,  cane  

Olives,  green,  edible  portion  

Olives,  ripe,  edible  portion  

Pickles,  mixed  

Sugar,  granulated  


Sugar,  maple  

Sirup,  maple  

Nuts,  Edible  Portion 
Almonds,  av  


424 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


TABLE  XXL— Table  of  100  Food  VmTS—Con'td. 


Name  of  food 


Povtion ' '  contain- 
ing 100  food  units 
iapTprox.) 

Wt.  of  100 
calories  (oz.) 

Calories 
furnished 
by  protein 

52 

13 

Three  ord.  size 

49 

lb 

50 

16 

57 

4 

1 

40 

1  en  nuts 

48 

9 

47 

1  nirteen,  QouDie 

62 

20 

About  eight 

46 

6 

About  eighty 

56 

About  six 

48 

Urci,  tnicK  slice 

1 

50 

9 

Ord^^thiclf^s?ice 

1 

30 

12 

1 

30 

13 

Ord.  cereal  dish 

97 

11 

96 

10 

92 

i  wo  crackers 

82 

Q  r 

Two  crackers 

81 

^9.0 

Large  serving 

4 

20 

96 

15 

vJra.  serving 

3 

85 

l}/2  serving 

5 

60 

18 

86 

11 

Urd.  cereal  disn 

3 

98 
10 

9 

Ord.  cereal  dish 

94 

^8 

One  large  roll 

1 

20 

12 

One  biscuit 

94 

97 

19 
1^ 

96 

1^ 

96 

lo 

-T  our  taolsspoons 

97 

12 

Size  of  thick  slice 

of  bread 

81 

9 

CJne  large  egg 

2 

10 

32 

Six  whites 

6 

40 

100 

94 

17 

3 

30 

34 

13 

00 

69 

Very  large  plate 

5 

40 

20 

Two  plates 

6 

30 

16 

29 

00 

85 

Two  plates 

8 

25 

17 

Half  a  square 

56 

8 

69 

17 

1 

60 

5 

Beechnuts  

Brazil-nuts  

Butternuts  

Cocoanuts  

Chestnuts,  fresh,  av  

Filberts,  av  

Hickory-nuts  

Peanuts  

Pecans,  polished  

Pine-nuts  (pignolias)  •  

Walnuts,  California  

Cereals 

Bread,  brown,  av  

Bread,  corn  (johnny  cake),  av  

Bread,  white,  homemade  

Corn  flakes,  toasted  

Cornmeal,  granular,  av  

Cornmeal,  unbolted,  av  

Crackers,  graham  

Crackers,  oatmeal  

Hominy,  cooked  

Macaroni,  av  

Macaroni,  cooked  :  

Oatmeal,  boiled  

Popcorn  

Rice,  uncooked  

Rice,  boiled  

Rice,  flakes  

Rolls,  Vienna,  av  

Shredded  wheat  

Spaghetti,  av  

Wheat  flour,  ent.  wheat,  av  

Wheat  flour,  graham,  av  

Wheat  flour,  patent,  family,  and  straight, 

grade,  spring  wheat  av  

Zweibach  

Miscellaneous 

Eggs,  hen's,  boiled  

Eggs,  hen's,  whites  

Eggs,  hen's,  yolks  

Omelet  

Soup,  beef,  av  

Soup,  bean,  av  

Soup,  cream  of  celery  

Consomme  

Clam  chowder  

Chocolate,  bitter  

Cocoa  

Ice  cream  (Phila.)  


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


425 


SOME  RULES  FOR  PLANNING  MEALS 

The  balanced  dietary. 

To  balance  the  dietary  means  to  supply  in  the  meals  of  each 
day,  in  a  form  best  suited  to  the  individual,  enough  energy  for 
the  day's  activities,  all  the  substances  needed  to  build  the  tissues 
— bone,  muscle,  nerve,  blood — and  those  substances  which  keep 
the  body  in  good  working  order. 

The  choice  of  foods. 

The  main  part  of  the  meals  of  each  day  should  consist  of 
simply  prepared,  mild-flavored,  non-stimulating,  and  easily 
digested  foods.  Well-cooked  cereals,  thoroughly  baked,  sweet- 
flavored  bread,  potatoes,  milk,  eggs,  fresh,  succulent  vegetables 
and  fruits  should  constitute  the  background  of  the  dietary. 
Meats  and  meat  soups,  candies,  preserves,  desserts,  cakes  and 
other  sweets,  rich  sauces,  pickles,  and  condiments  should  be 
used  in  moderation  to  give  color  and  interest  to  the  dietary; 
they  should  not  furnish  the  bulk  of  the  food  at  any  one  meal. 

Milk  should  be  used  hberally  in  order  to  replace  a  part  of  the 
meat  in  the  average  dietary,  and  because,  of  all  foods,  it  is 
richest  in  lime.  Milk  is  the  cheapest  animal  food;  and  since 
some  animal  food  is  necessary,  milk  should  be  the  first  to  be 
considered.  It  has  building  materials  which  are  of  special 
value  for  constructing  young  human  tissue.  No  other  food  con- 
tains as  much  lime.  It  is  also  the  most  important  source  of  two 
necessary  growth-promoting  factors  (page  412).  It  tends  to 
hold  in  check  abnormal  changes  in  the  intestine.  It  is  mild 
in  flavor  and  lends  itself  to  a  variety  of  uses.  When  it  under- 
goes normal  souring,  it  still  is  of  value  and  may  be  used  in  many 
ways. 

If  possible,  provision  should  be  made  to  supply  each  child  in 
the  family  with  a  quart  of  clean,  wholesome  milk  every  day. 
A  pint  of  milk  for  each  adult  is  desirable  if  the  meat  consump- 
tion is  low.  If  it  is  impossible  to  supply  as  much  milk  as  this 
for  both  children  and  adults,  the  children  should  receive  a  pint 
of  milk  each,  while  the  amount  for  the  adults  may  be  reduced 
to  a  cupful  apiece.   If  the  milk  supply  for  the  family  must  be 


426 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


reduced  still  further,  the  milk  should  be  given  to  the  children, 
since  the  adults  can  eat  coarser  foods.  Less  than  a  pint  of  milk 
a  day  for  each  child  is  a  very  small  allowance  and  is  likely  to 
result  in  some  form  of  malnutrition.  No  milk  at  all  for  the 
child  means,  without  doubt,  malnutrition,  unless  knowledge 
and  skill  are  combined  in  planning  a  correct  and  much  more 
expensive  dietary. 

If  it  is  impossible  to  obtain  whole-milk,  skim-milk  is  better 
than  no  milk,  even  for  little  children,  although  the  child  on  a 
skim-milk  diet  will  not  grow  so  normally  as  one  fed  on  whole- 
milk.  The  milk  may  be  used  as  a  beverage,  or  it  may  be  cooked 
in  various  ways.  The  correct  amount,  not  the  form  in  which  it 
is  used,  is  the  important  point.  If  the  family  must  economize, 
the  amount  of  butter  may  be  reduced,  but  the  amount  of  milk 
should  at  the  same  time  be  increased  to  insure  the  correct  total 
of  the  fat-soluble  growth-promoting  factor. 

Clean,  sweet,  skim-milk  is  as  valuable  as  whole-milk  for  its 
supply  of  lime,  its  good  type  of  protein,  its  water-soluble  growth- 
promoting  factor  and  for  a  part  of  its  fat-soluble  growth-pro- 
moting factor.  Skim-milk  has  a  lower  energy  value  than  does 
whole-milk  because  of  the  loss  of  its  fat.  Half  of  its  fat-soluble 
growth-promoting  factor  is  lost  with  the  fat;  therefore,  skim- 
milk  has  not  the  same  growth-promoting  power  as  whole-milk, 
although  it  still  contains  growth-promoting  properties.  For 
this  reason,  children  should  have  whole-milk  instead  of  skim- 
milk. 

Buttermilk  has  the  same  food  value  as  skim-milk.  Some 
persons  digest  buttermilk  more  easily  than  skim-milk  because 
the  casein  is  clotted  by  the  acid  in  the  milk.  It  is  believed  that 
when  the  casein  of  milk  is  clotted  before  it  reaches  the  stomach, 
either  by  natural  souring  or  by  the  addition  of  orange,  lemon, 
or  other  fruit  juice  or  junket,  it  does  not  form  the  large  firm 
clots  sometimes  formed  in  the  case  of  sweet  milk.  The  nutri- 
tive value  of  the  milk  is  unchanged,  and  the  clotting  may  make 
the  milk  more  easily  digested  by  some  persons. 

Cottage  cheese,  made  of  the  curd  of  milk,  is  a  valuable  food. 
It  contains  most  of  the  protein  of  the  whole-milk  and  is  a  good 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


427 


source  of  this  important  building  material.  It  contains  a  part 
of  the  lime  and  the  phosphorus  of  the  whole-milk,  and  part  of 
the  growth-promoting  factors,  though  little  can  be  said  as  yet 
concerning  the  comparative  amounts  of  these  substances  present 
in  it.  As  a  protein  food,  it  is  a  valuable  meat  substitute. 

Whey  also  has  nutritive  value  and  should  never  be  discarded. 
It  contains  the  water-soluble,  and  a  small  part  of  the  fat-soluble, 
growth-promoting  factors,  much  of  the  lime,  part  of  the  phos- 
phorus, and  it  may  contain  most  of  the  carbohydrate  of  the 
original  milk.  It  should  find  many  uses  in  the  dietary  in  the 
form  of  breads  and  cakes,  gelatin  desserts,  frozen  desserts,  and 
pudding  sauces. 

The  American  Cheddar,  or  cream,  cheese  made  from  whole- 
milk  contains  both  the  protein  and  the  fat  of  the  milk.  Pound 
for  pound,  cheese  is  considerably  richer  than  meat  in  both  pro- 
tein and  fat.  Cheese  is  rich  not  only  in  protein  and  fat  but  also 
in  lime,  phosphorus,  and  growth-promoting  substances.  When 
cheese  is  served  as  a  meat-saver,  that  is,  cooked  in  combination 
with  other  foods,  it  is  generally  easily  digested;  it  is  probably 
the  serving  of  cheese  with  pie  at  the  end  of  a  hearty  meal  that 
has  given  it  the  undeserved  name  of  being  difficult  to  digest. 

Cream,  as  well  as  the  butter  and  ice  cream  made  from  it, 
has  a  definite  place  in  the  daily  food  because  of  growth-promot- 
ing substances  and  the  high  energy  value  of  the  fat.  The  sour- 
ing of  cream  does  not  change  its  nutritive  value  any  more  than 
does  the  souring  of  milk.  One  pound  of  butter  is  equivalent 
to  five  quarts  of  milk  in  energy  value;  but  counting  the  proteins, 
Hme,  and  growth-promoting  factors  that  milk  contains,  three 
quarts  of  milk  will  give  as  much  total  food  as  a  pound  of  butter. 
It  is  said  that  not  only  should  three  quarts  of  milk  be  used  in 
place  of  every  pound  of  butter  given  up,  but  when  a  pound  of 
butter  costs  more  than  the  three  quarts  of  milk,  it  is  wise 
economy  to  use  the  milk  instead  of  the  butter.  In  a  family 
where  there  are  three  or  more  little  children,  no  money  should 
be  spent  for  a  pound  of  butter  or  of  meat  until  after  an  allow- 
ance has  been  made  for  three  quarts  of  milk. 

Butter  substitutes  are  made  up  more  or  less  of  vegetable 


428  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


oils,  which  give  energy  but  which  do  not  contain  the  necessary 
growth-promoting  factors  of  butter-fat.  Beef-fat  contains  a 
small  amount  of  the  fat-soluble  growth-promoting  factor;  but 
even  when  beef-fat  is  used  in  the  making  of  butter  substitutes, 
the  quantity  of  it  and  of  the  small  amount  of  butter  added, 
varies  so  greatly  that  the  butter  substitute  should  not  be  al- 
lowed wholly  to  replace  butter  in  children's  food.  Butter  sub- 
stitutes in  which  vegetable  oils  are  the  only  fat,  are  entirely 
lacking  in  this  growth-promoting  factor.  If  butter  substitutes 
are  used,  extra  milk  is  necessary  in  order  to  keep  up  the  supply 
of  these  essential  growth-promoting  factors. 

Boiling  is  believed  to  increase  the  ease  of  digestion  of  milk  by 
preventing  the  formation  of  large  firm  curds  in  the  stomach. 
Brief  boiling  is  thought  not  to  injure  seriously  the  value  of 
either  of  the  growth-promoting  factors.  Boiled  milk  seems  in 
the  case  of  many  persons  to  have  a  constipating  effect,  which 
may  be  offset  by  the  use  of  fruit  juices.  This  may  be  found  to 
explain  the  cause  and  cure  of  scurvy.  Boiled  milk  has  all 
the  energy  value  of  fresh  milk.  Boiling  does  not  seem  to  affect 
the  value  of  the  protein  sufficiently  to  be  of  any  serious  dis- 
advantage. Any  injury  to  the  value  of  the  protein  by  boiling 
.is  probably  due,  in  part  at  least,  to  the  coagulation  of  the  al- 
bumen of  the  milk.  Increasing  the  amount  of  milk  fed,  if  milk 
is  the  only  food,  seems  to  correct  any  damage  which  might  be 
produced  by  boiling,  either  on  the  protein  or  on  the  growth- 
promoting  factors. 

If,  as  occasionally  happens,  milk  reacts  on  the  individual  as  a 
poison,  a  special  study  should  be  made  in  order  to  include  in 
the  dietary  foods  other  than  milk  that  are  rich  in  lime.  Many 
times,  hov\^ever,  a  dislike  for  milk  may  be  confused  with  inabil- 
ity to  use  it.  If  it  is  merely  distaste  that  prevents  its  use,  milk 
may  be  included  in  the  dietary  by  being  cooked  with  other 
foods.  Eggs  will  replace  milk,  if  it  is  impossible  to  use  the  latter. 
Milk  is  a  valuable  substitute  for  meat. 

Eggs  should  be  used  as  long  as  they  can  be  afforded.  When 
possible,  one  egg  a  day  should  be  used  for  each  child  in  the  family, 
and,  if  available,  one  or  two  for  each  adult.   The  children  and 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


429 


women  of  the  family  should  have  the  eggs  first,  since  they  need 
the  most  iron.  If  the  cost  of  eggs  makes  their  use  impossible, 
thought  should  be  given  to  increasing  the  use  of  other  foods 
that  are  rich  in  iron.  The  cheapest  of  these  are  breakfast 
foods  or  breads  made  from  the  whole  cereal  grain.  Frequently 
it  is  objected  that  milk  and  eggs  cause  biliousness.  If  this  hap- 
pens, it  is  in  most  cases  due  not  to  the  use  of  milk  and  eggs, 
but  rather  to  the  absence  of  fruits  and  vegetables  in  the  dietary. 
Eggs  are  not  only  valuable  sources  of  iron,  they  are  also  rich  in 
lime,  rich  in  both  of  the  unknown  substances  (so-called  vita- 
mines)  necessary  for  grov/th  and  health,  and  the  protein  of  eggs 
is  of  the  efficient  type.  Eggs  may  be  used  to  replace  meat  or 
milk. 

Meat  is  not  a  necessary  food  if  other  animal  foods  are  used 
in  the  dietary.  Its  greatest  advantage  over  other  animal  foods 
is  its  palatability.  Meat  in  the  diet  of  little  children  is  always 
questionable.  The  protein  of  meat  is  very  subject  to  putre- 
faction, and  the  digestive  tract  of  the  child  is  particularly  sus- 
ceptible to  this  condition.  The  protein  of  meat  is  a  valuable  type 
but  not  necessary  if  milk,  cheese,  or  eggs  replace  it.  Meat  con- 
tains stimulating  substances  not  desirable  for  the  normal  child. 
It  has  a  high  iron  content,  but  the  susceptibility  of  meat  to 
putrefaction  may  often  destroy  its  value  as  a  carrier  of  iron. 
Iron  may  often  be  introduced  better  in  the  diet  through  other 
foods.  Meat  lacks  lime  and  has  a  much  more  limited  quantity 
of  the  growth-promoting  substance  that  is  carried  by  certain 
fats  than  has  either  milk  or  eggs.  It  contains  the  second  growth- 
promoting  substance  (page  412).  The  protein  substitutes  for 
meat  are  milk,  cheese,  eggs,  and  to  a  lesser  extent  soybeans 
and  peanuts.  Other  legumes  are  not  good  meat  substitutes 
unless  used  with  milk,  cheese,  or  eggs. 

Fruits  and  vegetables  should  be  used  liberally  in  the  dietary, 
for  they  are  among  nature's  best  body-cleansing  and  regulating 
agents.  They  furnish  substances  which  stimulate  the  activity 
of  the  intestine,  neutralize  the  harmful  acids  produced  by  the 
tissues,  and  keep  both  intestine  and  blood  in  good  condition. 
Fruits  stimulate  digestion  and  are  appetizing  additions  to  the 


430 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


day^s  food.  Complaint  is  often  made  that  at  certain  seasons 
fruit  and  vegetables  are  too  expensive  to  be  used  liberally. 
However,  their  value  is  not  comparable  to  the  loss  of  efficiency 
resulting  from  a  diet  that  lacks  natural  laxatives  and  iron. 
When  apples  are  cheap  they  should  be  baked  or  made  into  apple- 
sauce and  should  be  canned  for  use  during  a  season  of  scarcity. 
Carrots,  beets,  turnips,  cabbage,  onions,  and  parsnips  are  cheap 
at  a  time  when  other  vegetables  are  expensive,  and  if  carefully 
prepared  they  are  easily  digested;  they  not  only  give  variety 
to  the  dietary,  but  also  furnish  the  much-needed  vegetable 
material. 

A  diet  enriched  by  fruits  and  vegetables  has  a  tendency  to 
prevent  or  correct  anaemia,  to  prevent  constipation  and  its 
attendant  ills,  and  to  improve  general  health  conditions  in  that 
it  increases  the  amount  of  iron  furnished  to  the  blood  and  helps 
to  prevent  a  putrefactive  condition  in  the  intestine.  The 
leaves  and  stems  of  plants  are  particularly  valuable  additions 
to  the  dietary  in  that  they  supply  lime  and  fat-soluble  growth- 
promoting  substances. 

Those  cereals  and  cereal  foods  that  contain  the  larger  part 
of  the  grain  should  be  given  preference  in  the  dietary.  While 
such  a  cereal  food  as  white  flour  retains  all  the  original  energy- 
yielding  ingredients  and  most  of  the  protein,  it  has  lost  in  the 
milling  process  the  substances  occurring  in  the  outer  layers, 
which  stimulate  the  activity  of  the  intestines,  which  help  in 
such  body  functions  as  bone-building  and  the  formation  of  red 
blood  corpuscles,  and  one  of  which  promotes  growth. 

White  bread  is  entirely  wholesome  if  thought  is  given  to  in- 
cluding in  the  meals,  in  forms  other  than  bread,  the  substances 
lost  by  the  flour  during  the  milling  process.  This  may  be  ac- 
complished by  using  fruits  and  vegetables  for  their  laxative 
properties,  milk  for  its  lime  and  growth-promoting  substances, 
and  eggs  for  their  iron.  The  proteins  in  the  cereal  grains  are 
not  of  the  efficient  type  and  must  be  supplemented  in  the  diet 
with  animal  proteins.  Cereal  grains  also  lack  both  hme  and 
the  growth-promoting  substance  soluble  in  fat. 

Sweets  in  the  dietary  are  unquestionably  desirable,  but  they 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


431 


should  be  served  in  such  a  manner  as  not  to  reduce  the  appetite 
for  other  foods  and  not  to  satisfy  the  appetite  with  sweet  foods 
only.  Fruits  and  vegetables,  simple  desserts  of  various  kinds, 
jam  with  bread  at  the  close  of  the  meal,  and  candy  occasionally 
in  place  of  other  desserts,  are  the  best  ways  of  using  sugar. 
The  craving  for  sugar  between  meals  generally  indicates  a 
badly  controlled  appetite  or  a  poorly  fed  individual;  or  it  may 
be  the  outcome  of  some  diseased  condition  of  the  body. 

Candy  or  other  sweet  foods  eaten  between  meals  result  in 
poor  appetite.  Sugar  is  an  abundant  source  of  energy,  is  easily 
digested  and  absorbed,  and  rightly  used  it  has  its  place  in  the 
dietary.  It  lacks  altogether  any  building  foods,  and,  if  used 
in  large  quantities,  is  very  irritating  to  the  mucous  membrane. 
Therefore,  it  should  not  be  eaten  to  the  exclusion  of  other  foods. 
The  candy-fed  child,  refusing  as  it  does  other  foods  at  meal- 
times, is  very  likely  to  have  poor,  decayed  teeth,  weak  bones, 
flabby  muscles,  and  a  disordered  stomach.  The  rule  should  be 
to  use  sugar  with  other  foods  and  at  the  close  of  the  meal. 

Enough  water  should  be  consumed  each  day  to  maintain  the 
body  in  a  clean,  wholesome  condition.  It  is  just  as  necessary 
to  bathe  the  body  inside  as  outside.  Many  cases  of  serious 
bodily  disorder  are  directly  traceable  to  neglect  of  the  needs 
of  the  body  for  water.  Constipation  is  frequently  the  result 
of  insufficient  water  in  the  dietary. 

The  dietary  should  be  planned  to  meet  the  needs  of  all  mem- 
bers of  the  family.  The  main  part  of  the  meal  may  be  made  suit- 
able for  all,  and  to  this  the  foods  especially  needed  by  each  in- 
dividual may  be  added.  Little  children  should  not  eat  all  foods 
that  are  allowable  for  adults,  nor  should  the  grown  members  of 
the  family  be  limited  to  the  same  simplicity  of  diet  as  the  chil- 
dren, for  children  have  undeveloped  digestive  organs  that  will 
be  overtaxed  by  heavy  foods.  The  strength  of  food  in  the  diet 
of  the  child  should  be  increased  only  as  the  muscles  of  digestion 
strengthen  and  develop.  Foods  that  are  too  strong  overtax 
the  immature  digestive  tract,  and  foods  that  are  too  weak  fail 
to  develop  it. 

Persons  working  hard  outdoors  eat  more  food  than  those 


432 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


whose  work  is  of  a  light,  indoor  character.  Not  only  are  they 
able  to  digest  easily  foods  that  are  rated  as  difficult  to  digest, 
but  they  may  actually  need  food  that  will  require  at  least  mod- 
erate work  on  the  part  of  the  digestive  tract.  They  may  have  a 
disagreeable  feeling  of  hunger,  even  when  sufficiently  fed,  if  the 
food  consumed  does  not  ''stay  by  them  for  a  certain  period 
of  time.  Just  the  reverse  is  true  of  the  indoor  worker  who  uses 
his  muscles  but  little.  These  facts  are  often  overlooked,  and 
frequently  the  entire  dietary  is  shaped  to  the  needs  of  one 
member  of  the  family.  Hard  muscular  work  increases  the  need 
for  energy-producing  foods  but  does  not  materially  affect  the 
need  for  other  types  of  food. 

Examples  of  desirable  food  combinations 
Some  simple  combinations  will  serve  to  show  how  few  foods 
may  be  put  together  and  yet  answer  all  requirements. 

Menu  I 

Whole-wheat  bread 
Whole-milk  ■ 
Prunes 

A  dietary  must  be  built  on  broad  lines  even  if  it  is  simple, 
and  care  must  be  taken  not  to  err  by  a  simplicity  which  excludes 
any  needed  food  constituent. 

There  are  many  persons  who  have  acquired  a  distaste  for 
milk  unless  it  is  served  in  some  cooked  form.  When  this  is  the 
case  and  when  warm  food  is  desired,  a  meal  but  little  less  simple 
than  the  one  just  suggested  may  be  prepared  by  making  the 
''hearty  dish''  a  vegetable  cream  soup.  Such  soups,  which  are 
easy  to  make,  nutritious,  and  very  delicious  if  well  cooked  and 
seasoned,  are  too  little  used  in  the  family  dietary. 

Menu  II 

Cream  of  potato  soup,  or  any  vegetable  soup  having  a  milk 

foundation 
Bread  and  butter 
Fruit  or  a  succulent  vegetable 

Any  one  of  the  following  combinations  makes  a  well-balanced 
meal  if  sufficient  amounts  of  the  food  are  consumed.   This  does 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


433 


not  indicate  that  they  are  ideal  for  all  conditions.  Babies, 
small  children,  and  persons  who  have  a  weakened  digestive 
system  would  not  be  given  baked  beans  and  brown  bread,  or 
bread  and  cheese. 

Menu  III  Menu  IV 

Eggs  Oatmeal,  with  sugar  and  thin 

Bread  and  butter  cream  or  whole-milk 

Fruit  or  some  vegetable  Fruit 
Menu  V  Menu  VI 

Baked  soybeans  Bread  and  cheese 

Brown  bread  Onions 

Cabbage  salad  with 
egg  dressing 

Menu  VII 
Meat 

Bread  and  butter 
Green  vegetables 

While  the  food  combinations  just  given  theoretically  answer 
all  dietary  requirements,  they  ma}^  not  be  practical  in  those  cases 
in  which  food  habits  of  long  standing  lead  the  individual  to 
demand  a  greater  variety.  The  appetite  accustomed  to  stronger 
fare  might  pall  if  stimulated  only  with  such  simple  mixtures. 

A  basis  for  more  elaborate  menus  is  as  follows: 

Menu  VIII 

Cream  soup 
Bread  and  butter 
Meat 
Potatoes 
Cabbage 

Baked  apples  and  cream 

FOOD  FOR  THE  PROSPECTIVE  MOTHER 

The  woman^s  food  needs  are  very  little  increased  during  the 
first  months  of  the  growth  of  the  child.  Even  if  the  appetite 
is  small  and  trouble  is  experienced  with  nausea,  the  actual 
growth  of  the  child  is  so  little  as  not  to  be  seriously  effective 
at  this  time,  in  most  cases.  During  the  later  months  of  preg- 
nancy the  increase  in  food  needs  of  the  mother  are  still  compar- 
atively small,  probably  not  more  than  15  to  20  per  cent  above 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


normal.  This  does  not  mean  that  the  food  for  the  prospective 
mother  is  unimportant.  It  is  highly  important  that  she  should 
have  an  adequate  and  well-balanced  dietary.  She  needs  it  to 
keep  her  efficiency  and  to  produce  an  efficient  child.  It  should 
be  her  problem  to  maintain  a  normally  efficient  diet,  increasing 
it  toward  the  close  of  the  period. 

Foods  needed  by  the  prospective  mother  are:  (1)  Milk.  From 
a  pint  to  a  quart  of  milk  a  day  should  be  used  to  supply  lime, 
efficient  protein,  and  the  two  growth-essential  substances. 
(2)  Cereals  made  from  the  whole  grain  should  be  used  to  supply 
energy,  protein,  and  iron,  and  to  increase  the  laxative  substances 
in  the  diet.  (3)  Fruits  and  vegetables.  To  give  flavor,  needed 
salts,  lime,  iron,  and  laxative  substances,  fruits  and  vegetables 
are  essential.  Green  vegetables  are  especially  valuable  for  the 
iron  that  they  supply.  (4)  Meat  or  eggs  or  cheese.  Once  a 
day  meat,  eggs,  and  cheese  may  be  used,  although  they  are  not 
needed  if  the  mother  receives  fully  a  quart  of  milk.  (5)  Bread 
and  butter.  The  dietary  may  be  completed  with  bread  and 
butter.  It  is  of  especial  importance  that  the  diet  of  the  pro- 
spective mother  should  be  laxative  if  she  has  any  tendency  to 
constipation. 

FOOD  FOR  THE  NURSING  MOTHER 

The  food  need  of  the  nursing  mother  is  increased  in  proportion 
to  the  amount  of  milk  she  produces  and  the  child  consumes.  It 
has  been  estimated  that  her  food  needs  are  increased  as  follows: 
For  the  first  3  months  about  90  calories  for  each  pound  of  the 
baby's  weight 

For  the  second  3  months  about  85  calories  for  each  pound  of  the 
baby's  weight 

For  the  third  3  months  about  80  calories  for  each  pound  of  the 
baby's  weight 

For  the  fourth  3  months  about  70  calories  for  each  pound  of  the 
baby's  weight. 

This  means  a  marked  increase  in  the  mother's  energy  needs. 
For  example,  if  the  baby  weighs  10  pounds  when  it  is  a  month 
old,  the  mother  must  increase  the  calorie  value  of  her  diet  10 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


435 


times  90  calories,  or  about  900  calories.  A  quart  of  milk,  an 
egg,  two  pieces  of  bread,  and  an  extra  allowance  of  vegetables 
will  accomplish  this. 

The  mother's  diet  must  supply  not  only  more  energy  but  also 
more  protein  of  good  quality,  more  lime,  more  phosphorus, 
more  iron,  and  more  of  the  two  essential  unknown  growth- 
promoting  substances,  or  so-called  vitamines.  If  the  diet  of 
the  mother  does  not  supply  efficient  food,  she  cannot  manufac- 
ture sufficient  milk  of  good  quality  to  meet  the  needs  of  the  baby. 

Two  of  the  best  foods  to  increase  the  amount  of  protein,  Hme, 
phosphorus,  and  growth-promoting  substances  in  the  diet  are 
milk  and  eggs.  Eggs  give  in  addition  considerable  iron. 

The  diet  of  the  nursing  mother  should  be  laxative,  and  con- 
sequently fruits,  mild-flavored  vegetables,  and  breakfast  foods 
and  breads  made  from  the  whole  cereal  grain  should  play  an 
important  part.  There  is  no  truth  in  the  old  superstition  that 
fruits  in  the  diet  of  the  mother  produce  colic  in  the  baby. 

FORMULAS  FOR  INFANT  FEEDING 

If  a  baby  cannot  be  fed  by  its  own  mother,  the  next  best 
thing  is  the  milk  of  some  other  animal.  A  study  of  the  food 
needs  (pages  407  to  412)  will  soon  show  why  milk  is  practi- 
cally an  essential  food  for  little  children.  The  following  sim- 
ple formulas  may  be  of  service  to  mothers  who  are  unable  to 
nurse  their  own  babies. 

First  week 

First  day:  1  to  2  ounces  of  water  every  4  hours. 

Second  to  fourth  days:  Mix  3  ounces  of  milk,  7  ounces  of  water,  and  2 
teaspoons  of  milk-sugar,  and  divide  the  mixture  into  seven  feedings. 

Fifth  to  seventh  days:  Mix  4  ounces  of  milk,  7  ounces  of  water,  and  3 
teaspoons  of  milk-sugar,  and  divide  the  mixture  into  seven  feedings. 

First  week  to  third  month 

Mix  5  ounces  of  milk,  9  to  11  ounces  of  water,  and  3  tablespoons  of  milk- 
sugar,  and  divide  the  mixture  into  six  or  seven  feedings.  Gradually  increase 
the  amounts  until  at  the  end  of  the  period  the  mixture  contains  about  16 
ounces  of  milk,  14  to  18  ounces  of  water,  and  43^  tablespoons  of  milk-sugar. 

Third  month  to  sixth  month 

Mix  16  ounces  of  milk,  14  to  18  ounces  of  water,  and  43^  tablespoons  of 
milk-sugar,  and  divide  the  mixture  into  five  or  six  feedings.  Gradually 


436 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


increase  the  amounts  until  at  the  close  of  the  period  the  mixture  contains 
about  24  ounces  of  milk,  9  to  13  ounces  of  water,  and  43^  tablespoons  of 
milk-sugar. 

Sixth  month  to  ninth  month 

Mix  24  ounces  of  milk,  9  to  13  ounces  of  water,  and  43^  tablespoons  of 
milk-sugar.  Divide  this  mixture  into  five  feedings.  Gradually  increase 
the  amounts  until  at  the  end  of  this  period  the  mixture  contains  30  ounces 
of  milk,  8  ounces  of  water,  and  3  tablespoons  of  milk-sugar.  Cook  2  or 
3  tablespoons  of  barley  flour  with  the  water  used  in  the  mixture. 

Midway  between  the  two  morning  feedings  give  1  to  2  tablespoons  of 
strained,  diluted  orange  juice. 

Ninth  month  to  twelfth  month 

Mix  30  ounces  of  milk,  6  to  8  ounces  of  barley  gruel,  and  3  tablespoons 
of  milk-sugar.  Divide  this  amount  into  five  feedings.  Give  1  to  2  table- 
spoons of  strained  orange  or  prune  juice  between  the  two  morning  feedings. 
Gradually  increase  the  milk  until  at  the  close  of  the  period  the  child  is  re- 
ceiving a  quart  of  milk  and  a  pint  of  barley  gruel.  Increase  the  amount  of 
orange  juice  to  3  tablespoons.  Half  of  a  soft-cooked  egg  may  be  fed  at  this 
time.  A  piece  of  stale  or  twice-baked  bread  may  be  given  the  child  to  chew. 

THE  PART  MILK  SHOULD  PLAY  IN  THE  DIET  DURING  GROWTH 

Food  for  a  child  12  to  18  months  old 

Breakfast:  6  to  8  ounces  of  warm  milk;  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  thoroughly 
cooked,  strained  cereal  with  top  milk. 

Mid-morning  lunch:  6  to  8  ounces  of  warm  milk;  piece  of  twice-baked 
bread. 

Dinner:  6  to  8  ounces  of  warm  milk;  thin  piece  of  crisp  toast  or  twice- 
baked  bread;  slightly  cooked  egg. 

Mid-afternoon  lunch:  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  orange  juice  or  other  mild 
fruit  juice. 

Supper:  6  to  8  ounces  of  milk;  1  oi  2  tablespoons  of  thoroughly  cooked, 
strained  cereal  with  top  milk. 

Ty-pe  of  meals  for  children  18  months  to  2  years  old 

Breakfast  (6:30-7:30  A.  M.) :  Warm  milk  with  hghtly  buttered  bread;  or 
cereal  with  thin  cream,  glass  of  warm  milk;  or  lightly  cooked  egg,  lightly 
buttered  bread,  glass  of  warm  milk. 

Mid-morning  meal  (10  A.  M.):  Glass  of  milk  with  slice  of  bread. 

Dinner  (1-2  P.  M.):  Mashed  potato  with  dish  gravy,  bread  and  milk, 
very  small  serving  baked  apple  or  prune  pulp;  or  lightly  cooked  egg,  bread 
and  milk,  small  serving  baked  apple  or  prune;  or  mashed  spinach,  carrots, 
or  similar  vegetable,  bread  and  milk,  small  serving  very  simple  junket  or 
rice  pudding  or  similar  simple  dessert. 

Mid-afternoon  meal:  tablespoon  of  orange  juice  or  scraped  apple. 

Supper  (5-6  P.  M.):  Bread  and  milk  or  milk  toast. 


PLANNING  THE  DAILY  MEALS 


437 


Although  the  child  may  be  at  the  family  table  from  about  the 
third  year,  he  should  not  be  allowed  the  freedom  of  the  family 
dietary.  It  is  far  better  for  the  child  to  learn  that  certain  foods 
are  not  for  his  consumption.  There  is  no  better  lesson  in  self- 
control  or  temperance  than  the  one  that  may  be  taught  in  this 
simple  way. 

Type  of  meals  for  children  2  to  4  years  old 

Breakfast  (7-8  A.  M.):  Cereal  with  thin  cream,  milk  to  drink,  or  lightly 
cooked  egg  with  toast  and  milk. 

Mid-morning  meal  (10-11  A.  M.):  Bread  and  milk. 

Dinner:  Lightly  cooked  egg,  buttered  baked  potato,  bread,  milk,  stewed 
fruit;  or  mashed  vegetables,  such  as  spinach,  puree  of  peas,  or  carrots, 
bread,  milk,  light  pudding,  such  as  rice  or  bread  pudding  or  junket,  or 
occasionally  a  simple  ice  cream;  or  bread  and  milk,  baked  potato  and  one 
other  vegetable,  small  serving  of  pudding. 

Supper  (5-6  P.  M.) :  Bread  and  butter,  milk;  or  cereal  mush  and  milk;  or 
bread  and  milk,  and  stewed  prunes  or  apple-sauce. 

Type  of  meals  for  children  4  to  8  years  old 

Breakfast  (7-8  A.  M.):  Stewed  fruit;  cereal  with  whole  milk  or  thin 
cream,  bread  and  milk;  an  egg  may  be  added  to  this  meal. 

Mid-morning  meal :  Milk  with  thin  slice  of  bread  and  butter. 

Dinner  (12-1  P.  M.):  Lightly  cooked  egg,  spinach  or  peas  or  beans  well 
mashed,  baked  potato  or  boiled  rice,  stewed  fruit  or  light  pudding. 

Supper:  Well-cooked  cereal  with  thin  cream,  milk  to  drink,  stewed  fruit; 
or  hghtly  cooked  egg,  bread  and  butter,  milk  to  drink,  baked  apple. 

Type  of  meals  for  children  from  8  to  12  years  old 

Breakfast:  Cereal  with  thin  cream;  eggs,  poached,  boiled,  or  scrambled; 
milk  with  bread  and  butter;  fruit  may  be  eaten  at  this  meal. 
Mid-morning  meal:  Glass  of  milk  and  a  cracker. 

Dinner:  Small  piece  of  steak  or  roast,  fish  or  chicken;  potato,  rightly 
cooked  cabbage  or  other  vegetable;  bread  and  butter  and  milk;  some  simple 
dessert,  such  as  custard,  bread  and  jelly,  or  fruit. 

Supper:  Eggs  or  cream  soup  or  milk  toast,  bread  and  butter,  milk, 
stewed  fruit  or  bread  and  jelly. 

Type  of  meals  for  hoys  and  girls  12  to  16  years  old 

Breakfast:  Stewed  or  fresh  fruit;  well-cooked  cereal  with  thin  cream  or 
whole  milk;  bread  and  butter;  milk  or  cocoa;  eggs,  if  available. 

Luncheon  or  supper:  Scalloped  hominy  and  cheese;  bread  and  butter; 
milk  or  cocoa;  fruit,  raw  or  cooked. 

Dinner :  Small  serving  of  meat  (a  meat  substitute  may  be  used) ;  mashed, 
baked,  boiled  or  creamed  potatoes;  a  liberal  serving  of  some  succulent 
vegetable;  bread  and  butter;  milk;  a  simple  dessert. 


CHAPTER  XVIII 


MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 

By  Anna  Hunn 

The  housewife  has  the  duty  and  privilege  of  spending  for  food 
on  an  average  of  about  30  or  40  per  cent  of  the  family  income. 
Hers  is  the  tremendous  responsibility  of  seeing  that  the  family 
is  supplied  with  food  necessary  for  its  growth  and  maintenance 
at  its  highest  efficiency.  Good  buying  is  based  on  knowledge. 
This  knowledge  may  be  obtained  only  through  practice  and 
study.  The  housewife  should,  therefore,  be  alert  and  quick  to 
seize  every  opportunity  to  know  more  of  the  production,  the 
marketing,  the  nutritive  value,  and  the  cost  of  the  vast  number 
of  articles  which  she  has  to  buy.  She  is  expected  to  be  expert 
in  the  btiying  of  not  only  one  article,  but  hundreds.  She  has 
an  unlimited  field  for  study. 

A  good  buyer  plans  for  the  present  and  for  the  future.  She 
carefully  considers  the  material  in  the  storerooms,  ice-boxes, 
and  gardens,  and  plans  to  buy  only  that  which  will  supplement 
or  enable  her  to  use  the  food  already  on  hand.  The  next  step 
is  to  visit  the  markets.  The  good  buyer  rarely  telephones. 
The  exceptions  to  this  rule  would  be  an  emergency  call  or  the 
buying  of  standard  products,  such  as  sugar,  cereals,  spices,  or 
known  brands  of  goods. 

The  housewife  uses  the  senses  of  sight,  touch,  taste,  and  smell 
in  her  final  judgment  of  food.  It  is  quite  as  essential  that  she 
should  use  the  same  senses  in  buying  food.  To  do  this  it  is 
necessary  that  she  should  go  to  market.  For  buying  commodi- 
ties it  might  be  well  to  have  the  following  points  in  mind:  A 
definite  amount  should  be  ordered  in  pounds  or  definite  meas- 
ure; the  unit  price  of  the  commodity  should  be  ascertained; 
correct  scales  and  measures  should  be  used  and  the  full  amount 
438 


MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 


439 


paid  for  delivered.  To  check  the  measures  and  weights,  cor- 
rect scales  and  measures  should  be  a  part  of  every  kitchen 
equipment  (page  129). 

BUYING  FRESH  OR  STAPLE  FOODSTUFFS 

Kind  of  food. 

The  kind  of  food  which  the  buyer  seeks  is  based  on  the  family^s 
standard  of  living.  Such  as  may  quite  properly  be  bought  by 
those  who  can  afford  it,  may  not  be  at  all  suitable  for  those  with 
a  smaller  income. 

In  order  to  choose  wisely  between  two  or  more  foods,  the 
housewife  should  know  the  nutritive  value,  the  proportion  of 
edible  and  non-edible  material,  and  the  cost.  This  knowledge 
comes  only  through  study  and  comparison. 

Grade  of  food. 

After  the  buyer  has  decided  on  the  kind  of  food  to  buy,  the 
next  step  is  to  select  the  grade  best  suited  to  individual  needs. 
To  be  able  to  judge  of  grades,  it  is  necessary  to  know  the  stand- 
ard products,  or  to  know  the  qualities  that  enhance  and  the 
qualities  that  decrease  the  value  of  the  food. 

In  the  case  of  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables,  the  standard  prod- 
uct should  be  well-matured,  sound,  free  from  blemish,  uniform 
in  size  and  shape,  of  good  color,  fresh,  clean,  and  well  packed. 
Most  of  these  qualities  may  be  determined  by  the  eye,  some  by 
the  touch,  and  others  by  the  odor  and  the  taste.  Among  grades, 
as  among  foods  themselves,  there  are  differences  in  nutritive 
value,  in  proportion  of  edible  and  non-edible  material,  and  in 
cost.  These  differences  may  be  determined  only  by  study  and 
comparison.  Selection  of  meat  is  discussed  on  page  510,  and 
I  canned  foods  on  page  445. 

Up  to  the  present  time,  most  food  has  been  graded  from  the 
point  of  view  of  the  producer  rather  than  of  the  consimier. 
Few  foods  have  been  graded  and  labeled  so  that  the  consumer 
and  the  merchant  can  talk  on  the  same  basis.  Until  this  is 
done,  it  will  be  difficult  for  the  housewife  to  buy  intelhgently. 
She  should,  however,  read  carefully  the  labels  on  all  packages 


440 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


showing  the  net  weights  and  the  composition  of  the  con- 
tents. 

Amount  to  he  bought. 

After  the  kind  and  grade  of  food  have  been  decided  on,  it  is 
next  necessary  to  determine  the  definite  amount  to  buy,  which 
depends  primarily  on  such  factors  as  the  following :  The  amount 
allowed  for  one  person  (this  amount  is  the  basis  of  good  buying 
and  if  properly  estimated  insures  enough  food  for  all  and  elimi- 
nates to  a  great  degree  the  problem  of  left-over  food  [see  Table 
XXII] ) ;  the  number  to  be  fed;  the  number  of  times  the  food  is 
to  be  served;  the  keeping  qualities  of  the  food  (the  amount 
bought  should  be  small  enough  to  prevent  depreciation);  the 
available  storage  facilities;  the  amount  of  money  available  to  in- 
vest (interest  on  the  money  invested  in  food  should  be  added  to 
the  cost  of  the  food) ;  the  terms  of  contract ;  the  relative  advan- 


TABLE  XXII. — Servings  of  Vegetables  in  One  Pound 


Vegetable 

Approximate  size 

Number  servings 

of  serving 

in  one  pound 

Asparagus  

3^  cup 

4 

Beans,  dry  

3^  cup 

8-9 

Beans,  string  

}i  cup 

4 

Beets  

H  cup 

4-5 

Cabbage  

H  cup 

3 

Carrots  

K  cup 

4-5 

Cauliflower  

%cup 

3 

Celery  

3^  cup 

4 

Onions  

3^  cup 

4 

Parsnips  

3^  cup 

4 

Potatoes  

%  cup 

3 

3^  cup 

3 

Brussels  sprouts  

3^  cup 

5-6 

Spinach  

H  cup 

4 

Squash,  summer  

H  cup 

1-2 

Squash,  winter  

H  cup 

2-3 

Sweet  potatoes  

1  potato 

3-4 

Swiss  chard  \  

3^  cup 

3-4 

Tomatoes  

3^  cup 

3-4 

Turnips  

3^  cup 

4-5 

MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 


441 


tages  of  buying  in  large  quantities;  the  season  of  the  year  (it  is 
best  to  buy  large  amounts  of  food  for  storage  when  the  new  crops 
come  in;  this  is  especially  true  of  dried  fruits  and  many  grain 
products,  which  come  on  the  market  but  once  a  year) ;  the  cost. 

Bulk  or  unit  package. 

When  the  amount  to  be  bought  has  been  determined,  the 
housewife  must  decide  whether  to  buy  in  bulk  or  package,  and, 
if  in  package,  the  size  of  the  unit.  It  is  generally  cheaper  to  buy 
in  bulk  than  in  package.  (See  Table  XXIII.)  The  package 
costs  more  because  of  the  container  and  the  labor  involved  in 
packing  and  handling.  The  package,  on  the  other  hand,  has 
the  merit  of  being  air-tight  and  dirt-proof.  For  these  and  other 
reasons  it  is  preferred  by  some  persons.  It  is  possible,  however, 
for  the  grocer  to  keep  food  in  bulk  in  a  satisfactory  and  sanitary 
condition.  Buying  in  bulk  usually  necessitates  storage  in  moist- 


TABLE  XXIII.—  Comparison  of  Cost  of  Food  Bought  in  Package 
AND  IN  Bulk 


Food 

Cost  of 
package 

Weight  or  measure 
of  contents  of 
package 

Amount  obtainable 
in  bulk  for  the 
same  money 

Bacon  

$.50 

9  ounces 

13 . 3  ounces 

Cocoa  

.38 

16  ounces 

30 . 4  ounces 

Cocoanut  

.04 

3 . 5  ounces 

5 . 75  ounces 

Codfish  

.24 

16  ounces 

20  ounces 

Coffee  

.35 

16  ounces 

17.5  oimces 

Crackers  (soda)  

.05 

24  crackers 

35  crackers 

Crackers  (graharc)  

.10 

33  crackers 

48  crackers 

Ginger  snaps  

.05 

5  ounces 

8  ounces 

Ginger  

.075 

4  ounces 

6  ounces 

Macaroni  

.10 

12 . 5  ounces 

16  ounces 

Peanut  butter  

.30 

20  ounces 

27  ounces 

Peas  (a  can)  

.18 

2  cups 

4  cups  cooked 

Raisins  

.135 

15  ounces 

16  ounces 

Rolled  oats  

.13 

20  ounces 

23  ounces 

Sal  tines  

.15 

45  crackers 

96  crackers 

Starch  

.09 

16  ounces 

19.5  ounces 

Tapioca  

.25 

16  ounces 

19  ounces 

Vinegar  

.24 

1  quart 

2  quarts 

442 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


ure  and  vermin-proof  receptacles.  Such  receptacles  accumu- 
late in  every  household  and  should  be  saved  for  this  purpose. 

Units  of  sale. 

Most  commodities  are  sold  by  the  pound.  The  tendency  is 
to  increase  the  number  thus  sold,  since  the  pound  is  an  exact 

TABLE  XXIV. — Units  in  which  Vegetables  are  Sold  in  New  York 

State 


Vegetable 


Asparagus  

Beans,  string  

Beans,  lima  

Beets  

Brussels  sprouts  

Cabbage  

Cabbage,  Chinese  

Cauliflower  

Carrots  

Celery  

Corn  

Cress  

Cucumbers  

Eggplant  

Horse-radish  root  

Kale  

Kohlrabi  

Leeks  

Lettuce  

Mushrooms  

Onions  

Parsley  

Parsnips  

Peas  

Peppers  

Potatoes  

Pumpkin  

Radishes  

Romaine  

Squash  

Tomatoes  

Turnips  

Salsify  (vegetable  oyster) 


Unit 


Bunch  varies  from  3^  to  23-^  pounds 

Pound;  25-pound  hamper 

Pound  in  pod;  quarts  when  shelled 

Pound;  biinch 

Quart 

Pound 

Pound 

Pound;  crate;  hamper 

Pound;  bunch 

Bunch,  12  stalks  in  a  bunch 

Dozen  ears 

Pound 

Piece;  dozen;  hamper 

Piece;  crate;  hamper 

Pound 

Pound 

Pound 

Pound 

Head;  dozen  heads 

Pound 

Pound 

Bunch;  dozen  bunches 
Pound 

Bushel  measure 
Piece;  dozen;  barrel 
Pound 
Piece  . 

Bunch;  dozen  bunches 
Pound 
Pound 

Pound;  standard  H  bushel  crate 
Pound 

Bunch;  dozen  bunches 


MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD  443 


TABLE  XXV. — Units  in  which  Fruits  are  sold  in  New  York  State 


Fruit 

Unit 

Apples  

Pound;  standard  barrel  (3  bushels) 

Apricots  

California  crate,  22  pounds 

Bananas  

Pound 

Berries  

Quart;  crate  of  32  quarts 

Cantaloupes  

Pound;  crate  according  to  size 

Cranberries  

Pound;  100  pounds  in  a  barrel 

Grape  fruit  

Piece;  box  of  from  46  to  96  grapefruit 

Grapes  

Pound 

Lemons  

Dozen;  box  of  from  300  to  360  lemons 

Oranges  

Dozen;  box  of  from  96  to  250  oranges 

Peaches  

Pound;  standard  3^  bushel  peach  basket 

Pears  

Pound 

Pineapples  

Piece;  case 

Plums  

Standard  J/^  bushel  basket 

Quinces  

By  measure 

Rhubarb  

Pound 

Watermelon  

Piece 

measure,  whereas  the  bunch  or  basket  or  other  container  is  too 
often  unstandardized.    (See  Tables  XXIV  and  XXV.) 


Price, 

The  price  to  pay  depends  on  market  conditions.  The  market 
and  crop  conditions  may  be  learned  by  a  study  of  the  market 
reports  in  the  daily  newspapers.  These  prices,  however,  are 
generally  wholesale  prices,  and  since  the  latter  are  not  always 
reflected  in  the  retail  market,  they  serve  only  as  a  guide.  Local 
crop  and  local  market  conditions  may  be  such  as  either  to  lower 
or  raise  the  retail  price.  In  order  to  obtain  the  best  price,  it  is 
necessary  for  the  housewife  to  study  the  prices  at  the  local  stores 
and  then,  if  possible,  compare  them  with  prices  of  some  out-of- 
town  firm. 

Where  to  huy. 

The  question  of  where  to  buy  may  be  settled  by  buying  where 
the  maximum  value  can  be  obtained  for  the  minimum  price. 
This  place  can  be  determined  by  a  study  of  markets.  It  is  al- 
ways advisable  to  know  the  sanitary  conditions  surrounding  the 


444 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


production  and  marketing  of  the  products.  There  is  also  to  be 
considered  the  factor  of  discounts,  generally  based  on  the  amount 
bought,  the  time  and  place  of  delivery,  and  the  delivery  charges. 
When  buying  from  out  of  town,  it  is  necessary  to  consider  the 
cost  of  freight  and  cartage.  Cheapness  does  not  always  mean 
good  quality  or  full  weight.  Every  food  at  a  reduced  price  is 
offered  for  one  of  two  reasons:  because  the  market  is  over- 
supplied;  or  because  the  owner  is  afraid  to  risk  further  deprecia- 
tion. In  most  cases  this  depreciation  has  already  set  in,  and  it  is 
unwise  to  buy  such  food  unless  it  can  be  used  immediately.  If 
the  dealer  is  selling  goods  below  the  market  price,  the  goods  are 
generally  below  the  market  standards.  Only  an  expert  can 
know  a  bargain. 

Inspection  of  goods  on  delivery. 

On  arrival  at  the  house,  goods  should  be  opened  and  examined 
as  to  grade  and  condition.  If  not  acceptable,  they  should  be 
returned  at  once.  The  goods  should  be  checked  with  the  in- 
voice for  quantity  and  weight,  price  of  units,  and  total  costs.  The 
invoice  should  be  filed  to  check  with  the  weekly  or  monthly  bill. 

Records, 

In  the  case  of  staples,  it  is  often  desirable  to  keep  a  stock 


Stock  Record — Sugar 


Date 

Amount 
(Pounds) 

Price  a 
pound 
(Dollars) 

Total 
cost 
(Dollars) 

Inventory 
(Pounds) 

Yearly  con- 
sumption 
(Pounds) 

1916 

8/17 

5 

.09 

.45 

8/28 

10 

.08 

.80 

9/5 

25 

.05 

1.25 

9/20 

15 

.07K 

1.14 

1917 

2/10 

50 

.05 

2.50 

4/15 

25 

.05 

1.25 

9/7 

130 

7.39 

18 

112 

9/21 

100 

.09 

9.00 

MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD  445 


record.  The  form  of  record  as  here  suggested  for  sugar  enables 
one  to  tell  at  a  glance  the  date,  the  amount  bought,  and  the 
price  paid  for  the  article  in  question.  The  housekeeper  has  in 
these  stock  cards  a  basis  on  which  to  buy  for  the  coming  year. 
In  case  no  other  records  (page  177)  are  kept,  it  is  desirable  to 
include  the  name  of  the  firm  from  whom  the  goods  were  bought. 

Storage. 

The  proper  storing  of  food  is  very  important,  because  only 
by  having  good  storage  conditions  can  there  be  profit  in  buying 
in  large  quantities.  It  is  desirable  to  have  cool,  dry,  and  well- 
ventilated  store-rooms  (page  583).  Fresh  vegetables,  fresh 
fruits,  and  dried  vegetables  and  fruits  should  be  kept  in  such  a 
storeroom,  and  should  be  so  packed  as  to  allow  free  circulation 
of  air.  The  exceptions  to  this  rule  are  sweet  potatoes,  which 
should  be  stored  in  a  dry,  warm  place,  and  bananas,  which 
should  never  be  allowed  to  chill  since  this  causes  them  to 
blacken.  Staples,  such  as  cereals,  flours,  sugars,  and  other  dry 
products  should  be  kept  in  dry,  moderately  cool,  well-ventilated 
storage.  Meat,  fish,  butter,  and  milk  may  be  kept  at  a  lower 
temperature,  36°  F.,  or  lower. 

Low  temperature  and  lack  of  moisture  both  tend  to  retard 
the  growth  of  micro-organisms  that  cause  spoilage.  Most 
storage  foods  should  be  well  matured  before  being  stored  and 
should  be  looked  over  at  certain  intervals  for  the  removal  of 
any  decayed  or  spoiled  portions. 

BUYING  CANNED  FOODS* 

Grading  fruits  and  vegetables  for  canning. 

Before  one  can  distinguish  the  relative  values  of  market 
grades  of  canned  goods,  it  is  necessary  to  know  how  these  are 
determined  by  the  packer.  For  fruits  and  vegetables  the  lines 
of  quality  determination  are  much  the  same  and  as  follows : 

*  The  following  discussion  of  canned  foods  is  condensed  from  Canned 
Foods,  Fruits  and  Vegetables,  by  Florence  R.  Corbett,  Tech.  Education 
Bull.  18,  Teachers  College,  Columbia  University. 


446 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Locality  in  which  the  fruit  or  vegetable  is  grown. — Naturally 
the  fruits  and  vegetables  produced  in  sections  where  expert 
gardening  or  fruit-raising  prevails  and  which  naturally  favor 
such  crops,  will  be  superior  in  quality.  Of  the  most  common  and 
widely  used,  those  grown  in  the  northern  states  are  superior  in 
texture  and  flavor  to  those  grown  in  the  South,  and  because  of 
the  firmer  texture   stand  up^^  better  in  packing. 

Size  of  the  fruit  or  vegetable. — The  larger  the  fruit,  provided  it 
is  uniform  and  good  in  other  respects,  the  higher  it  will  be  graded. 
The 'smaller  vegetables  are  graded  highest,  since  they  are  gen- 
erally younger  and  tenderer,  juicier,  and  sweeter. 

Flavor  is  an  important  factor  to  the  consumer,  but  does  not 
take  precedence  of  size,  texture,  and  color  in  grading  either 
fruits  or  vegetables,  because  the  buyer  is  generally  influenced 
by  the  handsome  appearance  of  fruits  or  the  delicate  appear- 
ance of  immature  vegetables  which  may  be  quite  lacking  in 
flavor.  The  public's  preference  is  taken  into  consideration, 
and  fine-flavored  products,  not  notable  for  size  or  color,  may 
be  graded  lower  than  those  of  pleasing  appearance  and  infer- 
ior flavor.  A  striking  illustration  of  this  is  found  in  the  pref- 
erence for  very  small  peas  which  consist  principally  of  skins, 
water,  and  a  little  sugar.  Because  of  public  preference,  these 
are  graded  higher  than  the  larger  peas  of  rich  flavor  and  higher 
nutritive  value. 

Texture. — ^Fine  texture  is  a  characteristic  of  high-grade  fruits 
and  vegetables.  Tough  peas  and  beans,  fibrous  okra  and  as- 
paragus are  graded  low. 

Color. — The  natural  color  of  the  product  when  at  its  best 
is  the  standard  of  the  high-grade  pack.  Unfortunately,  the 
attempt  to  emulate  nature  has  been  overdone  by  some  packers 
to  the  point  where  most  of  the  public  have  come  to  regard  cop- 
per-greened peas  and  beans  as  superior  to  those  of  nature's 
green.  Now  that  the  law  requires  that  the  facts  regarding  the 
use  of  coloring  matter  be  stated  on  the  package,  the  public  is  in  a 
position  to  choose  between  the  natural  and  the  artificial,  the  safe 
and  the  possibly  harmful.  Fortunately,  it  is  the  fancy  grades 
of  vegetables  which  receive  the  copper  treatment,  such  as  the 


MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD  447 


very  small  peas  and  beans  in  which  the  nutritive  value  is  low  and 
the  price  prohibitively  high  to  the  average  buyer.  Even  when 
the  natural  color  of  the  vegetable  after  cooking  is  the  standard 
sought,  grading  of  the  product  is  still  done  on  color  lines.  Peas 
that  have  an  occasional  yellow  one  in  the  lot  are  graded  lower 
than  those  uniformly  green,  while  if  many  are  yellowish  the  lot 
is  graded  lower  still.  String  beans  containing  an  occasional 
brown  or  rusty  pod  are  graded  lower  than  those  uniformly 
green. 

Form,  whole  or  cut—Th^  fruit  or  vegetable  of  suitable  size 
which  is  sufficiently  perfect — free  from  bruise  and  spots  of  de- 
cay— to  can  whole  is  of  the  highest  grade,  provided  it  grades 
high  on  other  points.  Those  cut  in  halves  grade  next  highest, 
such  as  peaches,  apricots,''pears,  and  apples,  and  those  in  slices 
next,  such  as  sliced  peaches.  Smaller  pieces,  sometimes  re- 
ferred to  as  chips,  grade  lower  yet.  Pineapple  slices  afford  the 
highest  grade  in  that  fruit,  the  chunks  and  cubes  grading  next 
and  the  chipped,  grated,  and  crushed  pineapple  respectively 
lower. 

Preparation;  peeled,  unpeeled,  pitted,  cored. — Those  fruits 
which  are  improved  by  peeling  are  left  unpeeled  only  in  the 
lowest  grades.  The  same  is  true  of  pitting  and  coring,  except 
when  the  fruit  is  handsome  in  appearance  but  unsound  at  the 
pit  or  core. 

Medium  of  packing. — Fruits  packed  in  water  are  of  the  lowest 
grade  and  generally  known  as  ^^pie'^  fruit.  Those  packed  in 
sirups  are  graded  according  to  the  density  of  the  sirup,  35°  to 
40°  sirup  being  used  for  preserves,  such  as  strawberries,  30°  to 
34°  for  fancy  peaches,  plums  and  other  fruit  for  table  sauce; 
25°  to  28°  for  high-grade  fruits  for  table  sauce;  20°  to  25°  for  a 
still  less  rich  grade  of  table  sauce,  and  10°  to  20°  for  very  light 
sirup  suitable  only  on  sweet  fruits  or  those  to  which  more  sugar 
will  be  added  in  preparation  for  the  table.  Juicy  vegetables  such 
as  tomatoes  are  now  by  law  required  to  be  packed  in  their  own 
juice.  Other  vegetables  must  be  packed  in  as  little  water  as  is 
necessary  to  immerse  them  completely.  A  little  salt  and  sugar 
are  allowed  in  the  liquid. 


448 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Trade  terms, 

"Pie  fruif  is  the  lowest  class  of  fruit.  In  peaches  there  are 
two  grades,  the  unpeeled  and  the  peeled,  the  latter  bringing  the 
higher  price. 

The  "standard grade  of  fruit  ranks  next.  It  has  the  lightest 
sirup  and  consists  of  the  relatively  inferior  fruits  in  size,  color, 
flavor,  and  texture. 

"Extra  standard,^'  "extra,"  and  "fancy"  are  terms  applied 
to  grades  increasingly  good.  If  fruits  grade  high  as  to  variety, 
color,  size,  flavor,  texture,  and  are  packed  in  heavy  sirup,  they 
will  be  graded  as  Fancy,  and  fruits  less  good  will  fall  into  the 
other  group  grades  according  to  the  degree  in  which  they  ap- 
proximate the  grade  called  Fancy,  and  according  to  the  weight 
of  sirup  used.  That  it  is  quite  impossible  under  this  system  to 
depend  on  the  term  Fancy  representing  the  same  quality  of 
fruit  year  after  year  is  easily  seen,  for  the  crops  yielded  of  various 
fruits  are  seldom  of  the  same  standard  in  successive  years.  The 
same  is  true  of  any  grade.  In  a  good  year  the  trade  knowii  as 
Standard  may  prove  better  than  the  Extra  Standard  in  a  poor 
year.  This  makes  for  uncertainty  on  the  part  of  the  purchaser, 
and  any  buyer  of  large  quantities  of  canned  goods  finds  it  nec- 
essary to  see  the  contents  of  tins  selected  as  samples  and  to  qrder 
according  to  sample  as  well  as  by  grade  and  trade  name.  The 
small  buyer  is  at  a  great  disadvantage  in  being  unable  to  do 
this. 

The  trade  terms  for  grades  of  vegetables  are  in  general  the 
same  as  for  fruits.  The  poorest  of  southern-grown  produce  and 
the  trimmings  of  northern-grown  are  graded  below  standard. 
In  tomatoes  these  sub-standard  grades  are  sometimes  known  as 
"pulp"  and  "puree."  In  peas  they  are  known  as  "seconds" 
and  "soaked."  This  last  term  refers  to  peas  that  have  grown 
too  hard  for  canning  purposes,  but  have  been  soaked  in  water 
from  twelve  to  thirty-six  hours  and  then  canned. 

Quality  of  canned  goods. 

On  opening  the  can  the  volume  of  the  contents  in  relation 
to  the  capacity  of  the  can  should  be  noted.  The  contents  should 


MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 


449 


fill  the  can ;  any  considerable  space  between  the  top  of  the  can 
and  the  surface  of  the  contents  should  count  against  the  grade 
of  the  product. 

Any  excess  of  liquid,  that  is,  more  than  is  necessary  to  im- 
merse the  sohds,  lowers  the  grade  of  the  package. 

The  presence  of  any  foreign  material  such  as  drops  of  solder 
or  bits  of  paper,  which  indicate  careless  methods  in  packing, 
should  be  looked  for. 

Peas. — In  canned  peas,  a  very  cloudy  or  starchy  Hquid  prob- 
ably indicates  that  the  peas  have  been  soaked. This  would 
be  confirmed  by  the  peas  being  mealy,  large,  and  with  skins 
easily  loosened  in  the  can.  Since  peas  are  graded  according  to 
size,  those  known  as  ^'sifted,''  whatever  the  size,  are  higher  in 
price  than  the  unsifted,  sometimes  known  as  ^'the  run  of  the 
garden.''  A  large  number  of  yellowish  peas  in  a  can  indicates 
inferior  quality  and  flavor. 

String  hearts. — The  smaller  string  beans,  less  than  two  inches 
in  length,  are  high  priced  and  more  decorative  than  nutritious. 
Those  over  three  inches  in  length  are  coarse.  Those  between 
two  and  three  inches  are  generally  satisfactory.  The  ^^cut'' 
beans  are  cheaper  but  not  uniformly  good  in  flavor  and  texture. 

Lima  hearts. — The  smaller  lima  beans,  bush  limas,  are  higher 
in  price  and  generally  of  a  better  color  than  the  large  beans, 
pole  limas. 

Corn. — Canned  corn  that  is  very  milky  or  full  of  Hquid  may 
be  sweet,  but  it  does  not  grade  so  high  as  the  dry  packs  and 
does  not  keep  so  well. 

Okra. — Young  okra  is  tender  and  the  pods  are  canned  whole. 
This  brings  a  better  price  than  the  older  pods  which  are  cut 
before  being  packed. 

Spinach. — Good  spinach  is  packed  whole,  that  is,  the  leaves 
are  not  cut.  The  chopped  packs  lack  the  fresh  flavor  of  the 
other  and  their  quality  is  less  certain. 

Tomatoes. — Tomatoes  ^^hand  packed''  and  "cold  packed" 
are  put  whole  into  the  cans  while  raw  and  steamed,  so  that  they 
are  cooked  in  their  own  juice.  If  any  additional  juice  is  re- 
quired to  fill  the  crevices,  it  is  supposed  to  be  tomato  juice. 


450 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Tomatoes  so  packed  are  superior  to  those  cooked  before  the 
cans  are  filled,  and  will  be  found  practically  whole  when  the  can 
is  opened. 

Fruits. — All  large  fruits  are  more  expensive  in  tins  than  are 
small  fruits,  because  the  tins  are  more  solidly  filled  with  the 
latter  and  more  portions  can  be  served  from  a  tin  of  given  size. 
Of  the  large  fruits  canned  whole  or  in  halves,  neither  the  largest 
nor  the  smallest  are  the  most  economical  investment,  but  rather 
the  medium  size.  This  is  because  portions  are  made  by  the 
piece  rather  than  the  spoonful  and  the  very  large  pieces  are  few 
to  the  tin,  while  the  very  small  necessitate  two  or  more  pieces 
being  served  to  the  portion.  Large  fruits  bought  in  the  cut 
form,  for  example,  peach  slices,  peach  chips,  and  pineapple 
chips,  are  most  economical  of  all,  for  the  same  reason  that  small 
fruits  are  economical. 

Safe  and  unsafe  tin  cans, 

^'  Sanitary  cans. — Until  the  last  few  years  it  was  the  general 
custom  to  seal  tin  cans  by  soldering.  It  was  inevitable  that 
some  small  portion  of  the  solder  should  be  exposed  to  the  action 
of  the  contents  of  the  can,  and  frequently  drops  of  solder  were 
lost  among  the  contents  of  the  can.  The  ^'sanitary''  can  is  now 
used  by  the  best  packers.  In  this  can  the  food  is  hermetically 
sealed  without  the  use  of  solder  by  a  clever  mechanical  device 
which  folds  and  compresses  the  overlapping  edges  of  the  top  and 
sides  of  the  can.  Such  cans  are  stamped  '^Sanitary''  on  one 
end,  and  the  consumer  should  discriminate  in  their  favor  for 
his  own  safety  and  to  encourage  the  use  of  the  best  methods  in 
packing. 

Lacquer-lined  cans. — To  prevent  the  undesirable  reaction  be- 
tween acid  fruits  and  vegetables  and  the  metal  of  the  cans,  all 
tins  employed  for  packing  foods  of  strongly  acid  character 
should  be  lacquer-lined  by  a  heat-resisting  varnish.  This  is 
especially  important  since  the  cost  of  tin  has  advanced  and  the 
tin  covering  of  sheet  metal  used  for  the  manufacture  of  cans  has 
become  very  thin. 

Rusted  cans. — Cans  rusted  on  the  exterior  are  not  evidence 


MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 


451 


of  deteriorating  contents,  but  cans  rusted  on  the  interior  may 
have  an  undesirable  effect  on  the  food.  Experience  shows  that 
soldered  cans  are  often  so  rusted  at  the  soldered  end. 

"Swells.'^ — Imperfectly  steriUzed  foods  often  produce  gas, 
which  bulges  the  ends  of  cans  and  sometimes  causes  the  can  to 
burst.  This  is  more  likely  to  occur  in  the  case  of  those  foods 
that  contain  the  least  acid  and  are  most  difficult  to  sterilize, 
such  as  corn.  Reputable  distributors  will  accept  such  goods, 
known  as  ^'swells,''  if  the  swelHng  has  occurred  within  a  time 
limit  set  at  the  date  of  sale,  and  will  reimburse  the  buyer  to  the 
amount  of  the  bill.  It  is  difficult  for  the  small  buyer  to  return 
such  packages  to  the  retail  dealer  for  credit  unless  he  can  prove 
that  he  has  had  the  goods  but  a  short  time  and  has  kept  them  in 
a  cool  place.  Quantities  of  swelled  cans  are  returned  constantly 
to*  packers  and  distributors,  and  unscrupulous  handlers  of  such 
goods  are  known  to  have  returned  them  to  the  market  by  the 
process  of  puncturing  the  can  along  the  side  to  allow  the  escape 
of  gas,  then  re-heating,  re-sealing,  and  re-labeling.  Such  prac- 
tice may  be  detected  on  opening  the  can  by  the  presence  of  the 
punctured  and  soldered  spot.  Needless  to  say  the  use  of  food 
so  processed  is  most  unsafe. 

Labels  and  trade  names  or  brands. 

The  interests  of  the  consumer  necessitate  that  the  label 
shall  declare  the  name  of  the  packing  company,  the  place  of 
packing,  the  weight  of  contents,  the  amount  of  liquid,  the  me- 
dium of  the  pack  (water  or  sirup),  the  grade  of  the  product, 
and  the  name  and  address  of  the  distributors  or  jobbers.  All 
this  should  appear  whether  the  goods  are  packed  in  the  state 
where  they  are  sold  or  in  another  state.  The  date  when  packed 
should  be  stamped  in  the  tin,  as  the  word  ^'sanitary"  now  is  in 
some  cans. 

In  order  that  the  statement  regarding  grade  of  goods  may  not 
be  misleading,  it  is  necessary  that  trade  names  of  grades  have 
uniform  significance  for  packers  and  that  the  use  of  the  uni- 
form grading  methods  and  nomenclature  be  required  by  law. 
At  present  only  experience  enables  one  to  know  just  how  good 


452 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


is  the  ^'best"  grade  of  any  given  packer's  product.  All  "best'' 
grades  are  not  now  by  any  means  equal.  If  the  definitions  of  the 
grades  are  printed  in  fine  type  on  the  label,  it  is  helpful  to  the 
buyer.  The  consumer  might  be  aided  further  by  the  color  of 
the  label  declaring  the  grade  of  the  package  contents.  Thus  a 
white  label  might  be  used  for  products  of  the  highest  grade,  and 
red,  blue,  green,  yellow  in  the  order  of  decreasing  quaUty.  The 
business  of  determining  grades  would  necessarily  be  an  annual 
matter,  and  could  probably  best  be  done  by  a  joint-committee 
representing  the  producers,  the  packing  interests,  and  the 
Federal  government. 

Quantity  value. 

Among  dealers  the  sizes  of  packages  of  canned  goods  are 
designated  by  terms  that  refer  to  weight  expressed  in  pounds. 
The  common  sizes  or  capacities  are  1,  2,  23^,  3,  and  10  pounds, 
and  are  briefly  designated  as  Is,  2s,  23^s,  3s,  and  10s.  Doubtless 
at  some  time  in  the  past  the  packages  contained  the  weight  of 
food  indicated  by  the  numerals  assigned  to  the  cans.  But  keen 
competition  and  the  demand  for  low-priced  articles  have  gradu- 
ally shrunk  the  capacity  of  the  cans,  whil^  the  descriptive  nu- 
merals have  remained  unchanged.  Thus  a  can  known  as  No.  2 
size  may  actually  weigh  1  pound  and  6  ounces.  A  No.  3  can 
generally  weighs  about  2  pounds  and  8  ounces.  A  No.  10  can 
is  above  the  average  if  it  weighs  8  pounds. 

It  may  be  that  no  harm  is  done  to  distributors  and  large 
buyers  when  every  one  understands  the  situation  and  no  one 
is  deceived.  But  the  average  retail  buyer  not  only  has  not  this 
knowledge  of  conditions  but  does  not  even  know  whether  he  is 
buying  by  weight  or  measure.  To  him  canned  peas  are  graded 
as  25-cent  cans,  22-cent  cans,  20-cent  cans  and  18-cent  cans. 
When  he  chooses  the  larger  of  two  cans  at  the  same  price,  he 
does  not  know  whether  it  is  the  heavier  can.  If  it  is  the  heavier, 
he  does  not  know  until  he  opens  it  whether  the  extra  weight  is 
due  to  an  excess  of  liquid,  or  solidity  of  pack,  or  excessive  weight 
of  tin  can  and  solder.  Such  buying^  is  of  course  absurdly  ex- 
travagant. 


MARKETING  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD 


453 


lO        lO  (N 


—        —  £ 


Ml  N 

II 


o  *3 


03  ^ 


1  OQ 


c3  "E 


^'^^  o^'^  '^JiJx 


m     m  m 


454 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Suggestions  for  the  consumer. 

In  buying  canned  goods,  one  should  not  choose  the  cans  be- 
cause of  the  pictures  on  the  labels. 

One  should  not  hesitate  to  require  of  the  dealer  as  much  in- 
formation regarding  the  quantity  and  quality  of  canned  food 
as  regarding  a  purchase  of  food  in  any  other  form. 

Influence  should  be  used  to  obtain  legislation  that  will  re- 
quire uniform  standards  for  all  packers  in  all  states;  uniform 
laws  regarding  labeling  for  all  packers  in  all  states;  and  labels 
declaring  accurately  the  quahty  and  quantity  of  the  contents 
of  the  can,  and  giving  the  weight  of  solid  materials  and  the 
measure  of  liquid. 

References 
U-.  S.  Dept.  of  Agr.,  Farmers'  Bull.,  203. 

U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agr.,  Bur.  of  Chem.,  Circ.  54,  Analysis  of  Canned  Peas  and 
Beans. 

U.  S.  Dept.  of  Commerce  and  Labor:  Census  Bull,  on  Manufactures,  1902. 
Bull.  61,  Census  of  Manufactures,  1905. 


CHAPTER  XIX 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK 

By  Flora  Rose 

Only  such  directions  for  feeding  the  sick  will  be  given  as  may 
be  of  service  in  minor  illnesses  treated  without  the  advice  of  a 
physician  or  as  may  aid  in  carrying  out  the  directions  of  a  phy- 
sician in  more  serious  illnesses. 

In  all  sickness  the  diet  should  be  a  matter  of  some  considera- 
tion. A  change  from  the  comparative  activity  of  health  to  the 
comparative  passivity  of  most  cases  of  sickness  means  in  itself 
a  readjustment  of  dietary  habits.  Many  disorders  are  caused 
partly  by  diet  and  are  in  turn  much  affected  by  dietary  changes. 
Colds,  constipation,  indigestion,  and  some  cases  of  fever  are  of 
this  nature. 

Sick  persons  need  as  much  energy  as  well  ones  who  live  under 
the  same  conditions.  Moreover,  fever  patients  are  using  up 
considerably  more  energy  than  well  persons.  Nevertheless, 
at  the  beginning  of  any  illness  which  may  have  been  affected 
by  food  eaten,  it  is  generally  desirable  to  rest  the  digestive 
tract  by  a  day  or  more  of  fasting  and  by  several  days  of  moder- 
ate diet.  If  there  is  prospect  of  a  protracted  illness,  a  fasting 
period  is  usually  limited  to  one  day.  If  the  illness  is  brief  and 
particularly  if  food  aggravates  it,  the  fasting  period  may  be  ex- 
tended over  two  or  even  three  days,  depending  on  the  response 
and  vigor  of  the  patient. 

FLUID  DIET 

Generally  illness  means  that  the  body  is  below  par  and  cannot 
stand  the  strain  of  even  normal  conditions.  This  necessitates 
reducing  all  kinds  of  work  which  the  individual  would  normally 

455 


456 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


do.  The  digestive  organs,  as  well  as  other  parts  of  the  body, 
must  have  rest.  The  food  should  therefore  be  reduced  in  total 
amount  and  should  be  of  a  kind  that  is  readily  digested  and 
absorbed.  Foods  in  a  fluid  or  soft  condition  meet  this  require- 
ment most  satisfactorily.  They  are  dilute  and  have  as  a  rule  a 
rather  low  food  value.  A  fluid  diet  has  in  general  a  food  value 
lower  than  actual  body  needs.  This  is  desirable  in  most  cases 
in  which  rest  for  the  digestive  organs  is  of  prime  importance. 
A  fluid  diet  may  be  so  constituted,  however,  as  to  meet  actual 
food  needs.  The  food  value  of  the  fluid  diet  must  depend  on 
the  condition  and  needs  of  the  patient. 


TABLE  XXVII.— Foods  for  a  Fluid  Diet 


Kind  of  food 


Broths,  clear  soups,  beef  tea .  . 

Beef  juice  

Milk  

Cereal  gruels  


Qualifications  as  food  Proportions 
for  the  sick  for  making 


Agreeable  to  taste, 
stimulating,  com- 
forting. Good  as 
carriers  of  extra  nu- 
trition, such  as  ce- 
reals and  eggs.  Low- 
in  food  value. 

Easily  digested  pro- 
tein food.  Expen- 
sive. 

Most  valuable  sick- 
room food.  Has  all- 
round  nutritive 
value.  Is  a  good 
carrier  of  other  nu- 
trients, such  as  eggs, 
cereals,  sugar,  cream 

Good  when  appetite 
and  assimilation  are 
poor.  Rapidly  di- 
gested and  absorbed. 
Easily  enriched.  If 
cereal  dextrinized, 
easy  way  of  increas- 
ing nutritive  value' 
because  the  amount 
of  cereal  in  gruel 
can  be  increased. 


Valuable  to  increase 
nutritive  value  of 
other  foods,  such  as 
eggnogs,  egg  with 
fruit  juice,  egg  with 
broth  or  gruel.  A 
valuable  all-round 
food. 


1  pound  meat 
gives  3^  cup  juice 


1  ounce  cereal  to 
1  qt.  water 

2  ounces  cereal  to 
1  qt.  water 

1  ounce  cereal  to 
1  qt.  milk 

2  ounces  cereal  to 
1  qt.  milk 

6  ounces  dextrin- 
ized cereal  to  1 
qt.  water 

6  ounces  dextrin- 
ized cereal  to  1 
qt.  milk 


Comparative 
fuel  value 


1  cup  gives 
50  calories 


1  cup  gives 
150  calories 


1  cup  gives 

25  calories 
1   cup  gives 

50  calories 
1   cup  gives 

175  calories 
1   cup  gives 

200  calories 
1   cup  gives 

600-800 

calories 
1  cup  gives 

750-900 

calories 
1   egg  gives 

60  to  100 

calories 
1  egg  white 

gives  13  to 

14  calories 
1    egg  yolk 

gives  77  to 

86  calories 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK 


457 


A  typical  meal  plan  for  a  temporary  fluid  diet  having  low  food 
value. 

The  following  diet  is  low  in  calorie  value  and  must  be  in- 
creased as  soon  as  possible.  Food  should  be  given  every  two 
hours. 

1st  meal:  1  cup  cereal  gruel  made  with  milk  or  J/^  cup  coffee  with 
cup  milk. 

2nd  meal:  Fruit  juice  with  egg  (3^  cup  fruit  juice,  1  to  4  teaspoons  sugar, 
1  egg  white,  3^  cup  water) . 

3rd  meal:  1  cup  broth  or  beef  tea. 

4th  meal:  1  cup  cereal  gruel  made  with  milk. 

5th  meal:  3^  cup  fruit  juice  diluted  with  3^  cup  water. 

6th  meal:  1  cup  cereal  gruel  made  with  milk. 

7th  meal:  1  cup  broth. 

8th  meal:  3^  cup  milk  mixed  with  1  egg  and  sweetened  with  1  teaspoon 
sugar. 

9th  meal:  1  cup  broth  or  beef  tea. 

A  typical  meal  plan  for  a  fluid  diet  for  a  lasting  illness. 

The  following  diet  may  be  planned  approximately  to  meet  the 
food  needs  of  the  patient.  If  the  illness  is  to  be  of  long  duration, 
this  is  necessary.   Food  should  be  given  every  two  hours. 

1st  meal :  1  cup  cereal  gruel  made  with  milk. 
2nd  meal:  1  cup  cocoa  or  milk  flavored  with  coffee. 
3rd  meal:  Albuminized  fruit  juice  (3^  cup  fruit  juice,  1  to  3  teaspoons 
sugar,  1  egg,  3^  cup  water). 

4th  meal:  Cream  soup,  with  egg  added. 

5th  meal :  1  cup  cereal  gruel  flavored  with  beef  extract. 

6th  meal:  1  cup  milk  flavored  with  orange  juice. 

7th  meal:  1  cup  albuminized  fruit  juice. 

8th  meal:  1  cup  cereal  gruel. 

9th  meal:  1  eggnog. 

SOFT  OR  SEMI-SOLID  DIET 

Many  sick  persons  thrive  better  on  a  soft  diet  than  on  a 
fluid  one.  This  is  particularly  true  for  those  persons  who  dis- 
like milk.  A  soft  diet  is  the  first  step  after  the  fluid  diet  and 
may,  if  necessary,  replace  it. 

Foods  for  a  soft  or  semi-solid  diet  are:  Toast  made  with  milk, 
cream,  water,  or  beef  juice;  custards,  whips,  junket,  gelatins, 


458 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


soft  puddings;  omelets,  soft-cooked  eggs;  thoroughly  cooked, 
strained  cereals. 

LIGHT  OR  CONVALESCENT  DIET 

Light  diet  should  be  given  in  convalescence  following  the 
fluid  and  soft  diets,  and  in  those  cases  not  needing  special 
dietary  consideration.  It  is  the  normal  diet  for  the  passive 
condition  of  the  resting  or  inactive  person.  The  nature  of  the 
light  diet  must  depend  on  the  nature  of  the  disease  and  the 
vigor  of  the  patient.  In  general  the  following  food  would  be 
included.  Three  meals  a  day  are  given  in  a  light  diet. 

Foods  for  light  diet  are:  Fruits:  fruit  juices  or  cooked  fruits. 
Cereal  foods:  well-cooked  cereals,  strained  if  necessary;  rice  and 
macaroni;  thin  dry  toast.  Vegetables:  fresh  spinach;  celery; 
strained  peas;  potatoes,  baked,  boiled,  or  mashed.  In  some 
cases  vegetables  must  be  omitted  altogether,  as  in  acute  in- 
digestion; in  others  they  should  be  included.  Fats:  butter, 
thin  cream.  Meats:  not  more  than  one  small  serving  a  day  of 
broiled  chop  or  steak;  meat  broths.  Milk:  plain,  in  eggnog, 
in  cream  soups,  in  simple  desserts.  Eggs:  soft-cooked,  omelets, 
soufEes,  custards.  Simple  desserts;  custards,  junket,  ice  cream, 
gelatin  desserts,  cooked  fruits  or  cereal  puddings. 

CARE  AND  FEEDING  FOR  INCIPIENT  COLDS 

If  colds  are  recognized  and  treated  at  the  very  beginning, 
they  may  generally  be  controlled  soon.  They  are  most  often 
the  result  of  fatigue,  overeating,  and  a  run-down  condition, 
and  can  be  suppressed  by  rest  and  careful  diet.  As  soon  as  a 
person  feels  any  symptoms  of  cold,  the  following  treatment  is 
recommended : 

1.  A  mild  cathartic.  An  effective  cathartic  if  taken  on  an  empty  stomach 
is  composed  of  1  slightly  rounding  teaspoon  of  salt  (7  grams),  to  1  quart 
of  water.  The  entire  amount  should  be  taken.  On  rising  in  the  morning 
is  the  best  time,  since  the  stomach  is  then  normally  empty. 

2.  A  period  of  fasting.  Eat  no  food  except  water  and  a  little  fruit  juice 
for  24  hours,  or  until  the  cold  has  been  broken. 

3.  Water.  Drink  3^  glass  of  water  every  hour  or  half  hour  during  the, 
day.   A  little  lemon  juice  may  make  this  easier  to  drink. 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK 


459 


4.  Rest.  Stay  at  home  for  at  least  24  hours,  and  rest  and  sleep  as  much 
as  possible  during  that  time  in  a  well-ventilated  but  comfortably  warm 
room.   Avoid  drafts  and  changes  in  temperature. 

5.  Food.  When  the  cold  begins  to  yield,  as  it  will  in  most  cases  in  12  to 
24  hours,  break  the  fast  with  a  light  meal  of  milk  toast.  Begin  then  with 
a  light  laxative  diet  of  low  fuel  value.  Fruits  and  mild  vegetables,  fruit 
juices,  crisp  toast,  and  well-cooked  cereals,  lightly  cooked  eggs,  milk,  milk 
soups  or  gruels. 

CARE  AND  FEEDING  FOR  CONSTIPATION 

Many  serious  illnesses  may  be  caused  by  chronic  constipa- 
tion. Liver,  kidneys,  pancreas,  and  even  the  heart  may  be- 
come damaged  by  continued  absorption  of  the  poisonous  prod- 
ucts of  a  clogged  intestine.  It  is  always  dangerous  to  allow 
a  chronic  condition  to  become  established  in  which  day  after 
day  intestinal  wastes  accumulate.  They  may  ferment  or  putrefy 
and  produce  poisons  which  damage  the  body  seriously. 

Use  of  drugs. 

Whereas  it  is  probably  better  to  empty  the  intestines  with 
some  medicine  rather  than  to  retain  the  waste  material,  this  is 
nevertheless  a  poor  makeshift.  The  continued  use  of  laxative 
drugs  is  certainly  not  advisable.  If  a  person  suffers  from  chronic 
constipation,  every  effort  should  be  made  to  locate  the  cause  and 
to  correct  the  difficulty.  The  cathartic  should  be  used  as  an 
emergency  measure  only. 

Use  of  salt  water. 

Perhaps  the  simplest  and  least  harmful  way  of  cleaning  out 
the  intestine  of  an  adult  is  by  the  use  of  what  is  known  as  a 
physiological  salt  solution — 1  slightly  rounding  teaspoon  of 
salt  (7  grams)  to  1  quart  of  warm  water.  The  entire  quart 
may  be  necessary,  and  it  should  be  taken  on  an  empty  stomach. 
One-half  hour  or  more  before  breakfast  satisfies  this  condition. 
Slightly  more  or  less  salt  may  be  needed  in  some  cases  to  make 
this  solution  effective. 

Causes  of  constipation. 

Constipation  is  in  many  cases  due  to  the  following  conditions: 


460 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


failure  to  establish  regularity  in  emptying  the  intestines;  lack 
of  proper  exercise;  wrong  diet;  and  insufficient  water.  Its  cure, 
in  these  cases,  must  be:  taking  time  to  cultivate  the  habit  of 
emptying  the  intestine  at  a  regular  hour  each  day;  exercising 
in  such  a  way  as  to  strengthen  the  abdominal  muscles  (rapid 
walking  is  good  for  this);  following  a  laxative  diet;  drinking 
more  water. 

Laxative  foods. 

Laxative  foods  include  most  fruits  and  vegetables,  and  cereal 
foods  and  breads  containing  the  whole  of  the  cereal  grain.  Bran 
is  inadvisable  if  a  finer  meal  will  accomplish  the  result.  Con- 
tinued use  of  over-coarse  foods  is  unwise. 

Hygienic  treatment  and  diet  for  constipation. 
The  following  treatment  is  recommended  for  persons  suffer- 
ing from  constipation : 

Before  breakfast:  On  rising  drink  two  glasses  or  water,  or  take  the  salt 
solution  suggested  on  page  459.  Take  light  exercise  for  several  minutes  to 
strengthen  the  abdominal  muscles. 

Breakfast:  Stewed  prunes,  or  figs,  or  other  fruit;  oatmeal,  or  other  whole 
cereal,  and  milk;  eggs,  if  desired;  graham,  or  whole  wheat,  or  oatmeal 
bread;  water  to  drink,  if  desired. 

Between  breakfast  and  lunch  or  dinner:  Soon  after  breakfast  make  the 
beginning  of  establishing  the  habit  of  emptying  the  intestines  daily  at 
this  hour.  Allow  20  to  30  minutes  for  this  purpose,  if  necessary.  Drink 
one  or  two  glasses  of  water.   Take  a  brisk  walk. 

Dinner:  Meat,  or  meat  substitute;  potatoes;  a  liberal  serving  of  boiled 
onions  or  cabbage  or  some  succulent  vegetable;  bread  made  from  whole- 
cereal  meal;  two  glasses  of  water  to  drink;  stewed  fruit  or  graham  pudding 
or  some  fruit  dessert. 

Between  dinner  and  supper:  Drink  one  or  two  glasses  of  water;  take  some 
brisk  exercise;  if  hungry,  eat  some  fruit  but  nothing  else. 

Lunch  or  supper:  Macaroni  and  cheese  or  a  cream  soup  or  similar  dish; 
some  coarse  bread;  fruit  salad;  oatmeal  cookies;  two  glasses  of  water  to 
drink. 

After  supper:  Allow  a  short  period  of  brisk  exercise;  eat  an  apple,  orange, 
or  other  fruit,  if  hungry,  but  no  other  food;  drink  one  glass  of  water  during 
the  evening. 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK 


461 


DIET  DURING  A  CONDITION  OF  INTESTINAL  PUTREFACTION 

A  number  of  causes  may  contribute  to  a  condition  of  intes- 
tinal putrefaction.  It  is  generally,  though  not  always,  associ- 
ated with  constipation.  Since  putrefaction  means  decomposi- 
tion of  the  proteins  and  the  consequent  production  of  abnormal, 
easily  absorbed,  but  detrimental,  products,  efforts  should  be 
made  to  conquer  the  condition  as  soon  as  possible. 

The  diet  must  be  regulated  to  eliminate  a  part  of  the  total 
protein  but  particularly  to  reduce  those  proteins  most  subject 
to  putrefation,  namely,  meat  and  eggs.  The  animal  protein 
included  may  be  in  the  form  of  milk  or  mild  American  (Cheddar) 
cheese.  Foods  that  check  putrefaction  by  fermenting  slightly 
should  be  given.  These  are  in  general,  fruits  and  vegetables. 
If  constipation  exists,  it  must  be  corrected.  Drinking  water 
liberally  helps  to  reduce  intestinal  putrefaction.  If  the  condi- 
tion is  acute,  a  day  of  fasting,  with  salt  solution  (page  459) 
to  cleanse  the  intestine,  followed  by  a  light  laxative  diet  with 
eggs  or  meat  eliminated,  may  be  advisable. 

CARE  AND  DIET  FOR  INDIGESTION 

By  indigestion  is  meant  a  more  or  less  acute  irritation  of  the 
digestive  tract.  It  may  be  caused  by  fatigue,  worry,  rapid  eat- 
ing, wrong  foods,  too  much  food,  badly  prepared  foods,  too  little 
exercise,  overwork,  eating  when  weary,  or  a  run-down  condition. 
Its  treatment  consists  in  eliminating  the  cause  and  relieving 
the  difficulty. 

Rest  of  body,  mind,  and  digestive  tract  are  often  necessary. 
A  moderate  amount  of  outdoor  exercise,  combined  with  changes 
in  diet,  improvement  in  sleeping  hours,  and  proper  regulation  of 
all  habits  is  important  in  helping  to  overcome  indigestion. 

If  indigestion  is  chronic,  the  meals  should  be  limited  to  three 
simple,  easily  digested  meals  daily  (see  light  diet,  page  458) ,  and 
nothing  eaten  between  meals.  Any  habit  of  constipation  must 
be  corrected  by  right  regulation  of  diet.  Fatty  and  over-sweet 
foods  must  be  avoided  and  one  should  determine  whether  any 
special  foods  are  causes  of  the  difficulty,  and  avoid  them.  If 
indigestion  is  acute,  to  fast  with  complete  rest  for  a  day  or  two 


462 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


is  the  best  procedure.  If  this  seems  a  severe  program,  small 
amounts  of  fruit  juice  or  clear  meat  broth  may  be  used  several 
times  a  day  during  this  time.  When  food  is  resumed,  a  limited 
fluid  diet  should  be  followed  for  two  or  three  days  (see  fluid 
diet,  page  455)  and  gradually  changed  into  a  light  diet.  Under- 
feeding should  be  the  rule  until  the  digestive  organs  have  re- 
sumed their  balance. 

DIET  IN  FEVER 

The  old  adage,  stuff  a  cold  and  starve  a  fever  has  been 
completely  reversed.  Colds  are  now  starved,  while  fevers  are 
starved  only  long  enough  to  rest  the  digestive  organs.  There- 
after effort  is  made  to  supply  sufficient  food  to  keep  the  body 
from  any  considerable  loss  of  tissue.  This  is  particularly  well 
ilhistrated  in  the  modern  treatment  for  typhoid  fever. 

General  directions  for  feeding  fever  patients. 

1.  Rest  the  digestive  tract  for  a  day  or  longer  by  a  reduction  of  total 
food.   Gradually  increase  the  amount  of  food. 

2.  At  all  times  give  only  those  foods  which  are  readily  digested  and  ab- 
sorbed.  A  fluid  diet  may  be  best. 

3.  Give  a  small  quantity  of  liquid  very  frequently  since  thirst  is  great 
at  this  time  and  should  be  relieved. 

4.  Give  food  in  small  quantities  at  frequent  intervals,  from  13^  to  2 
hours.  The  outline  of  a  fluid  diet  of  high  fuel  value  (page  456)  will  give 
some  idea  of  the  needs  of  fever  patients  and  ways  of  meeting  these  needs. 

Foods  which  may  he  used  in  fever, 

1.  Milk  may  be  used  up  to  to  2  quarts  a  day.  It  may  be  modified 
by  diluting  it  with  water,  or  by  adding  cooked  cereal,  cream,  milk-sugar, 
egg,  or  malted  milk.  Its  taste  may  be  modified  by  adding  beef  extract, 
cocoa,  coffee,  or  tea. 

2.  Clear  soups  such  as  broths,  beef  tea,  and  beef  juice  may  be  used. 

3.  Eggs. — Fresh  eggs  may  be  used  up  to  4  or  sometimes  6  a  day.  They 
may  be  fed  raw,  in  milk  or  fruit  juice,  or  they  may  be  very  slightly  cooked. 

4.  Cream  may  be  used  in  moderate  quantities,  and  must  be  used  with 
caution  since  fat  is  likely  to  overtax  the  digestive  organs. 

5.  Sugar. — The  best  sugar  is  milk-sugar,  since  it  is  only  sUghtly  sweet. 
Up  to  6  or  8  ounces  may  be  used  daily. 

6.  Cereals. — Well-cooked  cereals  may  be  steamed  and  given  in  milk  as 
gruels. 


FOOD  FOR  THE  SICK 


463 


7.  Soft  toast  may  be  used  in  those  cases  in  which  diflBculty  is  experienced 
with  a  fluid  diet. 

Diet  for  typhoid  fever. 

A  diet  high  in  fuel  value  is  now  used  for  typhoid  patients, 
the  condition  of  the  patient  governing  the  amount  of  food  given. 
The  following  modified  milk  diets  illustrate  high  calorie  pos- 
sibilities of  a  simple  fluid  diet. 

Modified  Milk  Diets  for  Typhoid  Fever  * 


Calories 

For  1000  calories  a  day: 

Milk,  1000  c.  c.  (1  quart)   700 

Cream,  50  c.  c.  (1-2/3  oz.)   100 

Lactose,  50  gm.  (1-2/3  oz.)   200 

This  furnishes  eight  feedings,  each  containing: 

Milk,  120  c.  c.  (4  oz.)   80 

Cream,  8  gm.  (2  dr.)   15 

Lactose,  6  gm.  (13^2  dr.)   24 

For  2000  calories  a  day: 

Milk,  1500  c.  c.  (IJ^  quarts)   1000 

Cream,  240  c.  c.  (8  oz.)   500 

Lactose,  125  gm.  (4  oz.)   500 

This  furnishes  seven  feedings,  each  containing: 

Milk,  210  c.  c.  (7  oz.)   140 

Cream,  30  c.  c.  (1  oz.)   60 

Lactose,  18  gm.  (4^  dr.)   72 

For  3000  calories  a  day: 

Milk,  1500  c.  c.  (13^  quarts)   1000 

Cream,  480  c.  c.  (1  pint)   1000 

Lactose,  250  gm.  (8  oz.)   1000 

This  furnishes  eight  feedings,  each  containing: 

Milk,  180  c.  c.  (6  oz.)   120 

Cream,  60  c.  c.  (2  oz.)   120 

Lactose,  30  gm.  (1  oz.)   120 


FOOD  FOR  TUBERCULOSIS  PATIENTS 

Tuberculosis  is  almost  always  accompanied  by  fever.  Un- 
fortunately lack  of  appetite  may  be  associated  with  the  in- 
creased food  need  that  is  due  to  fever  and  wasting  tissue.  The 
problem  is,  therefore,  threefold:  (1)  to  increase  the  appetite 

*  Coleman,  American  Journal  of  Medical  Sciences,  January,  1912. 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


by  fresh  air  and  mild  exercise ;  (2)  to  plan  a  diet  which  is  easily 
digested  and  which  will  meet  the  increased  food  needs  at  the 
same  time;  and  (3)  to  build  the  body  by  rest.  Liberal  use  of 
milk,  eggs,  cream,  butter,  green  vegetables,  fruits,  and  whole 
cereal  grains  is  desirable.  Fats  are  especially  needed,  since 
they  have  a  high  fuel  value  for  a  limited  bulk.  Cream,  butter, 
whole-milk  cheese,  vegetable  oils,  cod-liver  oil,  bacon,  and  meat- 
fats  of  various  kinds  are  useful.  The  real  problem  is  to  provide 
a  tempting,  well-balanced,  high  calorie,  easily  digested  diet. 


CHAPTER  XX 


BEVERAGES 

By  Frances  Vinton  Ward 

Coffee  and  tea  have  no  nutritive  value  aside  from  the  cream 
and  sugar  that  may  be  served  in  them  as  beverages.  Cocoa 
and  chocolate  contain  starch  and  fat  and  consequently  are  real 
foods;  moreover,  they  are  generally  made  with  milk,  which 
gives  them  added  nutritive  value. 

COFFEE 

!  The  standard  kinds  of  coffee  include  Mocha,  Java,  Mara- 
caibo,  Santos,  Rio,  and  Bogota. 

Adulteration. 

Adulterants  are  seldom  found  in  coffee  that  is  unground,  or  in 
the  whole  berry.  Ground  coffee  is  sometimes  adulterated  with 
cereal  or  chicory  root.  A  mild  coffee  is  improved  by  the  addi- 
tion of  dried  chicory  root,  roasted.  Unadulterated  ground 
coffee  should  be  free  from  dust  and  chaff.    When  a  teaspoon 

I  of  ground  coffee  is  stirred  into  a  half  glass  of  cold  water,  there 
should  be  little  discoloration  of  the  water  and  few  grains  should 

j.  sink  to  the  bottom. 

Care. 

Coffee  gives  best  results  when  bought  in  the  whole  grain  and 
ground  just  before  using.  If  bought  ground,  it  must  be  kept 
in  an  air-tight  container  which  is  never  left  with  the  cover  off. 
To  freshen  a  stale  or  weak  coffee,  the  grounds  should  be  stirred 
in  a  hot  frying  pan  until  they  are  well  dried  but  not  scorched. 

Composition. 

The  substances  found  in  coffee  include :  caffein,  a  mild  stimu- 
lant; volatile  oils,  which  give  flavor  and  odor;  coloring  matter, 

465 


466 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


developed  in  roasting;  and  tannin,  present  only  in  very  small 
quantities,  except  in  the  chaff. 

Development  of  flavors. 

Bitterness  is  brought  out  by  boiling.  It  is  also  dependent  on 
the  proportion  of  coffee  used.  The  roasted  flavor  is  brought 
out  by  fresh  roasting  and  quick  making.  The  aroma  from  the 
volatile  oils  is  brought  out  by  slow  heating  without  boiling  or 
the  escape  of  steam. 

Directions  for  making. 

Weak,  medium,  or  strong  coffee  may  be  made  according  to 
the  following  proportions:- 

Weak  coffee:  1  level  tablespoon  of  ground  coffee  to  1  measuring-cup  of 
water  (3^  pint). 

Medium  coffee:  1  rounding  or  2  level  tablespoons  of  ground  coffee  to 
1  measuring-cup  of  water. 

Strong  coffee:  3  level  tablespoons  of  ground  coffee  to  1  measuring-cup 
of  water. 

Some  of  the  more  common  methods  of  making  coffee  are  as 
follows : 

1.  Cold-water  process.  Use  coffee  ground  medium  fine.  Pour  the  cold 
water  over  the  coffee,  cover  it  carefully,  and  plug  the  spout.  Heat  the 
coffee  very  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  and  boil  it  gently  for  not  more  than 
3  minutes.  Settle  it  by  pouring  in  a  little  cold  water  slowly.  Set  the  pot 
in  a  warm  place  for  8  minutes  to  allow  the  grounds  to  settle  and  the  flavor 
to  ripen.   Serve  the  coffee  without  further  delay. 

2.  Hot-water  process.  Use  coffee  ground  medium  fine.  Pour  boiling 
water  over  the  coffee  and  proceed  as  in  the  cold  water  process. 

3.  Quick  cold-water  process.  Use  coffee  ground  medium  fine.  Pour 
about  one-fourth  of  the  cold  water  over  the  coffee,  heat  it  slowly  to  the 
boiling  point;  then  add  the  remainder  of  the  water  boiling  hot,  set  the  pot 
in  a  warm  place  for  the  flavor  to  ripen,  and  serve  the  coffee  promptly  after 
8  minutes. 

4.  Large-quantity  process.  Tie  the  coffee,  ground  fine,  loosely  in  a  muslin 
bag,  allowing  space  equal  to  the  bulk  of  the  coffee  for  swelling.  Drop  the 
bag  in  the  kettle  of  cold  water,  heat  the  water  to  the  boiling  point,  and 
boil  it  for  not  more  than  3  minutes.  Remove  the  bag,  allow  the  coffee  to 
stand  for  8  minutes,  and  serve  it  when  needed.  Be  sure  that  the  coffee 
does  not  boil  while  it  is  being  kept  hot,  and  that  it  is  covered. 

5.  Percolator  process.    Use  powdered  coffee.    Heat  the  water,  pour  it 


BEVERAGES 


467 


through  the  grounds  in  the  percolator,  and  continue  heating  it  for  about 
5  minutes.   Serve  it  at  once. 

6.  French  drip  coffee.  Use  powdered  coffee.  Pour  the  boiHng  water 
through  the  grounds,  reheat  the  hquid,  and  pour  it  through  a  second  time. 
If  a  very  strong  coffee  is  desired,  this  process  may  be  repeated. 

7.  Cafe  au  lait  (coffee  with  milk).  Two  methods  are  commonly  used: 
(a)  Use  coffee  ground  very  fine.  Add  cold  milk  instead  of  water.  Heat  it 
slowly  to  a  temperature  just  under  the  boiling  point,  strain  it,  and  serve 
it  at  once.  Another  method  is:  (b)  Use  coffee  ground  medium  fine.  Add 
one-fourth  the  usual  amount  of  water.  Heat  this  slowly  to  the  boiHng 
point,  strain  it,  and  add  hot  milk  to  make  up  the  other  three-fourths  of 
liquid. 

8.  Iced  coffee.  Make  coffee  by  any  of  the  methods  suggested,  pour  it 
off  the  grounds  at  once,  chill  it,  and  serve  it  when  desired.  The  best  results 
will  be  obtained  from  cafe  au  lait  poured  over  chopped  ice. 

Clearing  the  liquid. 

It  is  necessary  to  clear  the  liquid  only  when  the  grounds  are 
steeped  in  the  water  loose,  not  inclosed  in  a  bag.  The  following 
methods  may  be  used : 

1.  Egg-white:  (a)  Add  an  egg-white  to  the  dry  grounds;  stir  the  mixture 
well.  Use  the  cold-water  or  the  quick  cold-water  method  of  brewing.  Add 
a  beaten  egg-white  to  a  pound  of  freshly  ground  coffee,  mix  it  well,  spread  it 
out  to  dry;  then  put  it  in  a  tight  container  till  it  is  used.  This  treatment 
will  also  aid  in  preserving  the  strength  of  the  coffee.  Use  the  straight  cold- 
water  process  for  this  coffee,  and  soak  the  grounds  for  a  few  minutes  in 
the  water  first  if  possible.  Coffee  so  prepared  should  never  be  put  in  a 
percolator,  since  it  clogs  the  sieve.  Strength  of  flavor  cannot  be  obtained 
if  the  hot-water  method  is  used,  (c)  Add  1  raw  eggshell  to  each  pint  of 
water,  and  make  coffee  by  the  cold-water  process. 

2.  Sifting.  A  coffee  which  gives  much  trouble  from  muddiness  may  be 
sifted  dry  through  a  strainer,  the  coarse  part  used  for  boiled  coffee  and 
the  fine  part  for  drip  or  percolator  coffee. 

3.  Cold  water.  Remove  the  coffee  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  it  is  cooked; 
pour  slowly  into  it  a  small  quantity  of  cold  water,  not  more  than  3^  cup  to 
2  cups  of  the  beverage,  and  set  it  aside  to  settle. 

4.  Hot  coffee.  Pour  out  a  little  of  the  coffee  into  a  cup;  return  the  clear 
part  of  this  to  the  pot  through  the  spout.  Repeat  this  process  two  or 
three  times  till  no  grounds  appear  in  the  cup.  Allow  it  to  stand  for  a  few 
minutes  to  settle. 

Coffee-pots  and  their  care. 

Pots  for  boiled  coffee  are  best  made  of  agate  or  aluminum. 
Tin  pots  of  good  quality  give  satisfaction  until  the  tin  wears 


468 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


off  on  the  inside.  An  aluminum  pot  is  the  most  durable.  Agate 
pots  should  be  boiled  in  a  soda  solution  once  a  week  and  tin 
or  aluminum  pots  in  mild  soapsuds;  any  seams  or  grooves 
should  be  carefully  wiped  afterward,  and  a  rag  string  run  through 
the  spout. 

TEA 

Teas  may  be  classified  as  follows:  1.  Black  tea:  tea  that  has 
been  fermented  in  the  process  of  drying;  it  is  supposed  to  con- 
tain less  active  tannin  than  green  tea.  2.  Oolong:  tea  that 
has  been  partly  fermented  in  drying  and  is  midway  in  color  and 
quality  between  black  and  green  tea.  3.  Green  tea:  tea  that 
has  been  promptly  dried  with  care  taken  to  preserve  the  natural 
green  color.  This  tea  is  supposed  to  contain  more  active  tannin 
than  do  the  other  varieties.  Formerly  it  was  sometimes  colored 
with  copper. 

The  best  known  kinds  of  tea  are  given  in  the  following  classi- 
fication : 

From  China  From  India  From  Japan 

1.  Green  1.  Black  Green 

a.  Gunpowder  a.  Assam  a.  Pan-fired 

b.  Imperial  b.  Darjiling  b.  Basket-fired 

c.  Young  hyson         2.  Green 

d.  Hyson  From  Ceylon  From  Formosa 

2.  Black  1.  Black  Oolong 

a.  Congou  2.  Green 

b.  Souchong 

c.  Scented 

3.  Oolong 

Grades.  '  ' 

There  are  six  grades  of  tea,  standardized  as  follows : 

1.  Flowery  pekoe:  tip  of  the  stem  and  buds.    This  grade 

seldom  reaches  this  country.   2.  Orange  pekoe:  first  open  leaf. 

3.  Pekoe :  second  leaf .  4.  First  souchong :  third  leaf .  5.  Second 

Souchong :  fourth  leaf.    6.  Congou :  fifth  leaf. 

How  to  judge  tea  leaves. 

Dry  fresh  tea  leaves  should  be  free  from  dust,  broken  bits, 


BEVERAGES 


469 


and  stems.  When  the  leaves  are  steeped,  they  may  be  judged 
by  their  size;  the  smaller  leaves  are  best.  Tea  that  consists  of 
I  leaves  that  are  very  much  broken,  or  that  has  many  stems  or 
i  midribs  in  proportion  to  the  remainder  of  the  leaf,  is  of  low 
i  grade.  However,  tea  containing  many  midribs  may  be  satis- 
j  factory  and  inexpensive. 

Storage. 

The  container  used  for  tea  should  be  of  metal  or  glass,  and 
should  be  air  and  water-tight. 

I  Composition. 

Tea  contains:  tannin,  a  bitter  astringent  substance;  aromatic 
oils,  substances  that  furnish  the  spicy  taste  and  odor;  and  thein, 
j  (caffein),  a  mild  stimulant. 

Directions  for  brewing. 

The  aims  in  properly  brewing  tea  are:  1.  To  extract  the  aro- 
matic oils  but  to  prevent  their  escape  from  the  liquid.  The  best 
temperature  for  this  result  is  just  under  the  boiling  point;  the 
best  time,  3  minutes.  2.  To  extract  the  thein.  The  best  tem- 
perature is  just  under  the  boihng  point.  3.  To  prevent  the  ex- 
i  traction  of  tannin.  Tannin  is  extracted  by  boiling  or  by  con- 
tinued steeping  (over  3  minutes). 

One  level  teaspoon  of  tea  should  be  used  for  each  cup  of 
!  water.  Any  of  the  following  methods  may  be  used : 

1.  Heat  the  teapot,  drop  into  it  the  tea,  and  pour  the  freshly  boiling 
water  over  this.  Steep  the  tea  in  a  warm  place  for  just  3  minutes;  do  not 
allow  it  to  boil.  Pour  the  beverage  off  the  grounds  immediately,  and  serve 
it  hot.  A  tea-cosy,  or  quilted  cover  which  fits  the  teapot,  helps  to  keep 
the  tea  hot. 

!  2.  Place  the  tea  in  a  large  tea-ball  or  tie  it  in  a  muslin  bag.  Put  this 
in  the  pot,  and  proceed  according  to  Method  1.  Remove  the  ball  at  the 
i  end  of  3  minutes. 

I  3.  Place  }/2  teaspoon  of  tea  in  a  silver  tea-ball,  previously  heated.  Lay 
this  in  a  serving  cup,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it.  Steep  it  for  just  3 
i.minutes;  then  remove  the  ball.  Replace  the  leaves  with  fresh  ones  before 
;  brewing  a  second  cup.  This  method  is  generally  unsatisfactory  from  the 
[  standpoint  of  quality. 


470  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

4.  Russian  tea,  for  serving  a  large  quantity.  Measure  out  the  tea  in 
the  proportion  of  1  cup  to  sixty  servings.  Pour  over  this  in  a  hot  covered 
kettle  3  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  steep  the  tea  for  3  minutes.  Pour  the 
liquid  off  the  leaves,  set  it  in  a  warm  place,  and  dilute  it  as  needed,  using 
one  part  of  tea  to  three  parts  of  hot  water. 

5.  Iced  tea.  Any  of  the  following  methods  may  be  used:  (a)  Brew  fresh 
tea  using  more  tea  in  proportion  to  water  than  for  hot  tea.  Fill  tumblers 
half  full  of  cracked  ice,  place  a  slice  of  lemon  and  2  teaspoons  of  sugar  on 
top,  and  pour  the  hot  tea  over  this.  Serve  the  tea  as  soon  as  it  is  chilled, 
(b)  Cool  tea,  and  chill  it  either  by  the  addition  of  cracked  ice  or  by  placing 
it  where  it  will  be  cold.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  tea  before  cooling  it, 
or  add  a  sirup,  (c)  Pour  cold  water  over  the  tea  leaves,  and  let  them  soak 
for  several  hours. 

6.  Tea  punch.  Tea  that  is  to  be  used  as  a  foundation  for  fruit  punch 
should  be  made  in  the  proportion  of  1 teaspoons  of  tea  to  1  cup  of  water. 
To  make  the  punch,  use  cold  tea  in  place  of  one-fourth  to  one-half  Of  the 
water,  according  to  the  flavor  desired.  The  use  of  tea  of  approximately 
the  same  color  as  the  fruit  juice  is  best;  a  dark  tea  may  be  used  to  color 
the  liquid.   Test  the  tea  for  clouding  before  using  it. 

Clouding, 

Some  teas,  expecially  some  black  kinds,  cloud  on  cooling 
and  standing.  Re-heating  will  clear  them  temporarily,  but  these 
teas  are  not  suited  for  serving  as  iced  teas  or  in  punches.  To 
test  a  tea  for  clouding,  it  should  be  brewed  and  the  liquid  allowed 
to  stand  overnight  at  room  temperature.  Clouding  is  not  an 
indication  of  inferior  quality. 

Points  in  judging  the  beverage. 

In  judging  tea,  the  color,  the.  taste,  the  flavor,  the  pungency, 
and  the  body  must  be  considered. 

Serving. 

Black  tea  is  generally  best  suited  for  serving  with  cream  and 
sugar  because  of  its  color  and  flavor.  Green  teas  are  generally 
served  plain  or  with  lemon  and  sugar. 

COCOA 

Cocoa  is  found  on  the  market  in  the  following  forms :  1.  Cocoa 
nibs:  chocolate  beans,  cracked.    2.  Chocolate  cake:  chocolate 


BEVERAGES 


471 


beans  ground  fine  and  pressed.  3.  Cocoa-shells:  the  thin 
'  inner  shells  of  the  cocoa  bean,  cracked  oE.  Very  Httle  nutri- 
iment  is  contained  in  them.    4.  Cocoa:  chocolate  from  which 

some  of  the  fat  (cocoa  butter)  has  been  removed. 

Composition. 

Chocolate  and  cocoa  contain  fat,  starch,  tannin  and  theo- 
bromine,  which  is  similar  to  caffein  but  much  milder  in  its  effects. 
The  fat-content  of  chocolate  is  much  liigher  than  that  of 
cocoa. 

Directions  for  making, 

1.  Chocolate  nibs:  Use  34  cup  of  nibs  to  3  cups  of  water.*  Pour  the 
boiUng  water  over  the  nibs,  steep  them  gently,  without  boihng,  for  2  hours. 
Strain  the  beverage,  and  serve  it  with  cream  and  sugar. 

2.  Cocoa-shells:  Use  from  3^  to  1  cup  of  shells  to  4  cups  of  water.  Sim- 
mer the  mixture  for  2  hours,  strain  it,  and  serve  it  with  cream  and  sugar. 

3.  Chocolate:  Use  14  ounce  of  chocolate,  3^  cup  of  water,  3^  cup  of  milk, 
2  teaspoons  of  sugar,  and  salt.  Melt  the  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler,  add 
the  sugar,  the  salt  and  the  water.  Heat  the  mixture  to  the  boiling  point, 
letting  it  bubble  well.    Add  the  milk,  and  set  it  in  the  double  boiler  to 

I  heat.  When  it  is  hot,  beat  it  with  an  egg-beater  till  the  top  is  covered  with 
a  fine  froth.  This  will  prevent  the  formation  of  a  film.  To  make  a  some- 
what heavier  beverage,  add  from  34  to  1  teaspoon  of  cornstarch  mixed 
with  the  sugar. 

4.  Cocoa,  (a)  Thin  cocoa.  Mix  2  teaspoons  of  cocoa,  2  teaspoons  of 
sugar,  salt,  and  add  3^  cup  of  hot  water,  stirring  the  mixture  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Boil  the  mixture  at  least  two  minutes.  Add  3^  cup  of  milk,  and 
heat  the  mixture  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  it  with  a  Dover  egg-beater  till 
the  top  is  covered  with  fine  bubbles,  to  prevent  the  formation  of  a  film, 
(b)  Thickened  cocoa.  Mix  2  teaspoons  of  cocoa,  2  teaspoons  of  sugar, 
salt,  3^  teaspoon  of  cornstarch,  a  little  cinnamon,  and  3^  cup  of  water, 
stirring  the  mixture  to  a  smooth  paste.   Boil  it  till  it  thickens,  add  cup 

,  milk,  and  place  the  mixture  in  a  double  boiler  to  heat.  Beat  it  with  an 
egg-beater  to  prevent  the  formation  of  a  film,  (c)  Cocoa  paste  (prepared 
cocoa.)  Mix  2  cups  of  cocoa,  3  cups  of  sugar,  and  3  cups  of  hot  water, 
and  stir  this  to  a  smooth  paste.  Place  the  mixture  in  a  double  boiler,  and 
simmer  it  for  2  hours.  Keep  the  paste  in  a  cool  place  and  use  it  as  needed. 
To  use  the  paste,  heat  1  cup  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  stir  into  it  1 
tablespoon  of  the  paste,  (d)  Iced  chocolate  and  cocoa.  Chill  cocoa,  and 
pour  it  over  cracked  ice  in  tumblers.  Serve  it  with  whipped  cream  on 
top. 


472  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


.  fruit  juices 

By  Miriam  Birdseye 

The  principal  charm  of  a  fruit  drink  hes  in  the  smooth  blend- 
ing of  the  various  flavors.  Unless  the  fruit  juices  have  been 
well  sweetened  before  bottling  (page  619),  the  needed  sugar 
should  be  supplied  in  the  form  of  a  sugar  sirup;  otherwise  the 
juices  and  the  sugar  must  be  mixed  and  allowed  to  stand  to- 
gether for  several  hours  before  being  served.  For  the  sirup, 
1  cupful  of  sugar  should  be  allowed  for  each  cupful  of  water, 
and  the  mixture  boiled  for  about  10  minutes.  It  saves  time  and 
fuel  to  make  a  quart  or  so  of  this  sirup  at  a  time  and  bottle  it 
boiling  hot  in  sterilized  pint  jars  for  subsequent  use. 

A  small  amount  of  some  strongly  acid  juice  should  always  be 
added  to  the  fruit  drink  to  give  it  the  proper  degree  of  acidity. 
The  juice  of  rhubarb  or  barberries  is  sufficiently  sour  to  take 
the  place  of  lemon  juice  for  this  purpose.  Orange  juice  may  be, 
substituted  for  lemon  juice  by  adding  to  it  a  small  quantity 
of  cider  vinegar. 

Enough  of  the  sugar  sirup  should  be  added  to  the  fruit  juices 
to  sweeten  them,  enough  acid  juice  to  contribute  the  desired 
zest,  and  the  whole  diluted  to  taste  with  shaved  ice  or  with  ice 
water. 

Green  tea  makes  a  good  foundation  for  a  fruit  punch. 

Well-scrubbed  skins  of  pineapples,  oranges,  and  lemons  may 
be  covered  with  water,  a  little  sugar  added,  and  the  mixture 
allowed  to  stand  for  several  hours  to  draw  out  the  flavoring 
matter.  This  thin  juice  may  be  used  immediately  to  make 
fruit  drinks. 


CHAPTER  XXI 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 

By  Mary  F.  Henry 

When  flour  -and  liquid  are  mixed  in  such  proportions  that  the 
resulting  mixture  can  be  beaten,  it  is  called  a  batter.  When  the 
mixture  is  so  thick  that  it  cannot  be  beaten,  but  must  be  made 
smooth  by  kneading,  it  is  called  a  dough.  The  essential  in- 
gredients of  batters  and  doughs  are  flour,  liquid,  and  leavening. 
Shortening,  eggs,  sugar,  and  salt  are  not  essential  but  they  con- 
tribute to  flavor  and  texture.  ''Light  breads"  can  be  made 
from  wheat  flour  because  it  contains  certain  materials  which 
when  moistened  form  a  sticky  elastic  substance  called  gluten. 
When  a  mixture  containing  gluten  is  heated,  the  moisture  and 
the  air  which  may  be  incorporated,  expand  and  stretch  the 
gluten.  If  the  temperature  is  sufficiently  high,  the  gluten 
hardens  and  forms  a  framework  surrounding  whatever  other 
ingredients  are  contained  in  the  loaf.  However,  it  is  not  safe 
to  rely  solely  on  the  expansion  of  the  moisture  or  whatever  air 
happens  to  be  present  in  the  mixture,  either  as  the  result  of 
beating  a  plain  batter  or  of  adding  well -beaten  eggs.  In  most 
batters  and  doughs  a  gas  which  expands  on  heating  is  intro- 
duced by  means  of  the  growth  of  yeasts  or  by  chemical  leaven- 
ing agents.  This  gas  acts  more  powerfully  than  does  air  or 
steam  because  it  is  more  abundant.  Yeast  doughs  are  discussed 
in  Chapter  XXIV. 

CLASSIFICATION 

Pour  hatters. — Mixtures  of  about  equal  parts  of  flour  and 
liquid,  such  as  those  used  in  making  popovers  and  pancakes, 
are  called  pom-  batters  because  they  can  be  poured. 

Drop  hatters. — Mixtures  of  about  two  parts  of  flour  to  one 

473 


474  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


part  of  liquid,  such  as  those  used  for  muffins  and  cakes,  are 
called  drop  batters,  because  they  drop  from  a  spoon. 

Soft  doughs. — Mixtures  of  about  three  parts  of  flour  to  one 
part  of  liquid,  such  as  biscuits,  are  called  soft  doughs. 

Stiff  doughs. — Mixtures  of  about  four  parts  of  flour  to  one 
part  of  liquid,  such  as  yeast  bread,  are  called  stiff  doughs.  (See 
Chapter  XXIV.) 

INGREDIENTS 

Flour. 

A  good  grade  of  flour  should  be  used  for  all  doughs  and  batters 
(p.  495).  Pastry  flour  is  better  than  bread  flour  for  quick- 
bread  mixtures  and  cake,  since  it  gives  a  more  tender  product 
than  does  bread  flour.  Pastry  flour  may  be  made  at  home  ac- 
cording to  the  suggestions  on  page  490.  When  other  flours  are 
substituted  for  wheat  flour  in  a  recipe,  it  should  be  on  the 
basis  of  weight,  since  there  is  much  variation  in  measure. 

Liquid. 

Sweet  or  sour  milk,  sweet  or  sour  buttermilk,  sweet  or  sour 
cream,  whey,  molasses,  water,  potato  water,  rice  water,  and 
various  other  liquids  may  be  used  in  doughs  and  batters.  Sour 
milk,  sour  cream,  sour  buttermilk,  whey,  and  molasses  require 
soda  to  neutralize  their  acid  (p.  475) .  Sour  milk  gives  a  texture 
that  is  slightly  more  tender  than  that  produced  with  sweet 
milk.  Both  eggs  and  fat  serve  as  part  of  the  liquid.  An  average- 
sized  egg  may  be  regarded  as  supplying  two  tablespoons  of 
liquid;  fat  may  be  regarded  as  entirely  liquid.  This  fact  must 
be  taken  into  consideration  if  changes  are  made  in  a  standard 
recipe.  If  cream  is  used,  its  fat-content  must  be  considered 
(p.  477). 

Soda. 

When  baking  soda  comes  in  contact  with  an  acid  in  the  pres- 
ence of  moisture,  it  liberates  a  gas  called  carbon  dioxide.  The 
acid  may  be  cream  of  tartar,  or  such  acids  as  are  contained  in 
sour  milk  or  molasses.    The  amount  of  soda  to  be  used  is  de- 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


475 


termined  by  the  amount  of  sour  milk  used  and  its  degree  of 
acidity,  and  not  by  the  amount  of  flour  as  is  the  case  when 
baking  powder  is  used.  Soda  may  be  added  in  two  ways:  (1) 
It  may  be  stirred  into  the  milk,  in  which  case  it  does  not  act  so 
decidedly  as  a  leavening  agent,  but  serves  to  sweeten  the  milk. 
In  the  process  some  of  the  gas  is  liberated  and  the  leavening 
power  is  lost  to  such  an  extent  that  it  generally  becomes  neces- 
sary to  use  baking  powder  as  additional  leavening  agent. 
(2)  The  soda  may  be  sifted  with  the  flour,  in  which  case  the 
gas  is  liberated  chiefly  during  the  baking  process.  When  it  is 
added  in  this  way,  no  additional  baking  powder  is  used  if  the 
milk  is  sufficiently  sour  to  require  soda  in  such  amount  as  to 
give  a  proportion  of  }/2  teaspoon  of  soda  to  1  cup  of  flour. 

No  absolute  statement  can  be  made,  however,  as  to  the  cor- 
rect amounts  of  soda  to  use,  since  sour  milk  and  molasses  differ 
greatly  in  their  degree  of  acidity.  In  general  it  may  be  said  that 
from  \i  to  }/2  teaspoon  of  soda  should  be  used  for  each  cup  of 
sour  milk,  and  more  nearly  }/2  teaspoon  should  be  used  for  each 
cup  of  molasses.  Experience  in  cooking  with  sour  milk  and  soda 
will  best  teach  correct  amounts  to  use.  If  soda  is  added  to  the 
milk,  the  taste  may  serve  as  a  guide  for  determining  correct 
amounts,  a  brackish  taste  indicating  that  too  much  soda  has 
been  used,  a  sour  taste  indicating  that  too  little  has  been  used. 
Tests  may  be  made  with  red  and  blue  litmus  paper:  if,  after 
the  soda  has  been  added,  blue  litmus  paper  turns  red,  the 
amount  of  soda  has  been  insufficient  to  neutralize  the  acid;  if 
red  Utmus  paper  turns  blue,  too  much  has  been  added.  If 
neither  red  nor  blue  litmus  paper  changes  color,  the  acid  of  the 
milk  has  been  just  neutralized. 

Instead  of  using  soda  alone  as  a  leavening  agent  when  sour 
milk  or  molasses  is  used  as  the  liquid,  some  persons  choose  to 
use  baking  powder  also  in  the  proportion  of  1  teaspoon  of  bak- 
ing powder  to  1  cup  of  flour.  This  is  advisable  especiafly  if  the 
milk  is  only  slightly  sour,  and  the  amount  of  soda  required  to 
neutralize  the  acid  is*  not  sufficient  to  furnish  enough  gas  to 
make  the  mixture  light.  If  eggs  are  used  in  the  mixture,  baking 
powder  is  not  so  necessary. 


476 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Baking  powder. 

Baking  powder  is  a  mixture  of  soda  and  an  acid  which  will 
yield  a  gas  when  liquid  is  added.  The  acid  constituent  varies 
with  the  type  of  the  baking  powder.  It  may  be  an  acid  tar- 
trate, a  phosphate,  or  an  aluminum  salt.  Most  commercial 
baking  powders  contain  a  third  ingredient,  starch,  which  ab- 
sorbs moisture  and  so  prevents  any  premature  reaction  between 
the  soda  and  the  acid.  All  baking  powders,  whether  home- 
made or  commercial,  should  be  kept  in  a  closely  covered 
jar. 

Baking  powder  is  generally  used  in  a  mixture  in  which  sweet 
milk  is  used  as  the  liquid.  Two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
will  leaven  one  cup  of  flour  if  no  eggs  are  used.  If  eggs  are  used, 
the  total  amount  of  the  baking  powder  may  be  decreased  3^ 
teaspoon  for  each  egg  used. 

It  is  possible  to  make  baking  powder  at  home  by  combining 
cream  of  tartar  and  soda  in  the  correct  proportions.  It  is  not, 
however,  entirely  practicable,  because  of  the  difficulty  in  being 
accurate  in  measuring  and  thorough  in  mixing.  The  correct 
proportion,  by  measure,  to  combine  is  23^  parts  of  cream  of 
tartar  to  1  part  of  baking  soda  and  3^  part  of  cornstarch;  or 
by  weight,  2^/io  parts  of  cream  of  tartar,  to  1  part  of  soda  and 
3/2  part  of  cornstarch.  The  ingredients  should  be  very  care- 
fully measured  and  thoroughly  mixed  by  sifting. 

Yeast. 

Yeast  is  discussed  under  yeast  breads,  page  497. 
Eggs. 

Eggs  give  firmness  of  texture,  lightness,  and  richness  to  bat- 
ters and  doughs.  Also  they  act  as  a  leavening  agent  by  entrap- 
ping air  as  they  are  beaten.  When  heated,  the  albumen,  like  the 
gluten  of  wheat  flour,  hardens  and  helps  to  form  a  framework 
to  hold  up  the  other  ingredients.  The  tendency  is  opposite 
to  that  of  fat,  since  eggs  tend  to  bind  together  the  ingredients, 
and  fat  tends  to  separate  them.  Preserved  eggs  that  have  a 
good  flavor  and  odor  may  be  used.  One  egg  may  be  considered 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


477 


the  equivalent  of  }^  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  in  leavening 
power. 

Shortening. 

Fats,  such  as  butter,  butter  substitutes,  lard,  lard  substitutes, 
tried-out  meat  fats,  chicken  fat,  and  olive  and  cottonseed  oils, 
j  are  used  for  shortening.  Fat  makes  the  texture  of  batters  and 
j  doughs  more  close-grained  and  more  tender  than  they  would 
otherwise  be.  It  also  improves  the  flavor  in  most  cases.  Mut- 
ton fat  may  be  used  satisfactorily  under  certain  conditions 
(page  521).  Fat  necessitates  the  use  of  more  leavening,  since 
it  oils  the  particles  of  flour  and  makes  it  easy  for  the  gas  to 
escape.  A  cake  made  with  a  small  amount  of  fat  will  be  porous 
and  will  dry  out  quickly.  Too  much  fat  will  make  the  cake 
heavy  and  cause  it  to  crumble.  If  melted  fat  is  added  to  a  cake 
batter,  it  should  not  be  hot,  since  hot  fat  is  likely  to  make  a  cake 
tough,  coarse-grained,  and  heavy. 

Since  fats  vary  in  their  water-content,  proper  substitution 
cannot  be  made  by  using  equivalent  amounts. 

One  cup  of  butter  is  equivalent  to :  1  cup  of  lard  or  lard  sub- 
stitute minus  2  tablespoons;  1  cup  of  chicken  fat;  1  cup  of 
cottonseed  or  olive  oil  minus  2  tablespoons. 

If  cream  is  used  in  place  of  milk,  the  fat-content  must  be 
allowed  for  in  measuring  the  shortening.  One  cup  of  18  per  cent 
cream  is  equivalent  to  34  cup  of  milk  plus  tablespoons  of 
fat.  One  cup  of  40  per  cent  cream  is  equivalent  to  cup  of 
milk  plus  73^2  tablespoons  of  fat. 

Sugar. 

Sugar  gives  flavor  to  a  mixture.  It  also  acts  as  a  liquid.  A 
fine  granulated  sugar  gives  a  better  texture  than  does  a  coarse 
sugar.  Powdered  sugar  is  sometimes  used  for  a  very  close- 
grained  cake.  If  either  powdered  or  brown  sugar  is  used  in 
place  of  granulated,  the  substitution  should  be  made  by  weight, 
not  measure.  Molasses  is  used  in  some  recipes  for  part  of  the 
sugar  as  well  as  part  of  the  liquid.  Corn  sirup  may  be  used  in 
the  same  way;  however,  to  give  sufficient  sweetness  it  should 


478 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


generally  be  combined  with  some  sugar  or  molasses.  Too 
much  sugar  results  in  a  heavy,  coarse-grained  texture,  or  a 
gummy  product. 

METHODS  OF  MIXING 

The  method  of  combining  the  ingredients  in  flour  mixtures  is 
determined  somewhat  by  the  ingredients,  and  there  is  no  hard 
and  fast  rule  to  be  followed.  However,  experience  has  shown 
that  the  following  methods  give  good  results : 

Method  of  mixing  hatters. 

The  following  method  may  be  used  in  making  griddle  cakes, 
popovers,  and  muffins.  Even  cake  may  be  mixed  in  this  way 
with  excellent  results.  1.  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients. 
2.  Add  the  milk  to  the  beaten  egg,  and  stir  this  mixture  into 
the  dry  ingredients.  3.  Add  the  melted  butter  and  beat  the 
mixture  well. 

Method  of  mixing  doughs. 

Biscuits  and  pie  crust  are  best  made  by  the  following  method : 
1.  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.    2.  Cut  the  shortening 
into  the  dry  materials  with  two  knives,  or  mix  it  lightly  with 
the  finger  tips.   3.  Add  the. liquid,  mixing  it  in  with  the  knives 
and  stirring  the  mixture  as  little  as  possible. 

Method  of  mixing  cakes. 

Cake  is  generally  mixed  by  the  following  method,  if  a  cake- 
mixer  is  not  used. 

1.  Sift  together  the  flour,  the  baking  powder,  and  the  salt. 
2.  Work  the  butter  with  a  spoon  until  it  becomes  soft  and 
creamy.  3.  Add  the  sugar  gradually,  creaming  it  with  the 
butter.  4.  Add  the  well-beaten  egg-yolks.  5.  Add  the  milk 
and  the  flour  in  thirds  or  fourths,  alternately.  6.  Fold  in  the 
well-beaten  egg-whites. 

UTENSILS  FOR  BAKING 

Kinds. 

Popovers  are  best  if  baked  in  iron  or  pottery.  Tin  may  be 
used,  but  it  is  not  so  satisfactory.  Iron  baking  pans  should  be 
heated  before  the  batter  is  poured  into  them. 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


479 


Muffins  may  be  baked  in  either  iron  or  tin  baking  pans. 

Cake  is  best  baked  in  tins.  The  tube  pan  allows  a  current 
of  hot  air  to  rise  through  the  center  of  the  cake,  and  hence  pro- 
motes even  baking.  A  broad,  shallow  pan  generally  gives  a 
lighter,  drier  cake  than  does  a  deep  narrow  pan. 

Biscuits  may  be  baked  on  tin  or  on  Russia  iron  sheets. 

Preparation. 

The  baking  pans  should  be  greased  before  the  ingredients  are 
combined.  The  fat  should  be  melted,  and  appHed  to  the  pans 
with  a  soft  piece  of  paper,  a  swab,  or  a  brush  kept  for  the  pur- 
pose. The  product  may  often  be  prevented  from  sticking  by 
lightly  sprinkling  the  greased  pan  with  flour,  inverting  it,  and 
tapping  it  to  remove  any  excess. 

FILLING  THE  PANS 

A  pan  should  never  be  filled  more  than  two-thirds  full  of 
batter.  When  a  cake  batter  is  put  into  the  pan,  it  should  be 
brought  up  against  the  sides  by  using  a  spoon  or  spatula,  so  that 
before  baking  the  center  of  the  cake  may  be  lower  than  the 
sides. 

BAKING 

The  pan  should  be  placed  on  the  lower  grate  of  the  gas-oven 
and  on  the  floor  of  the  oven  of  a  coal  range  so  that  the  greatest 
amount  of  heat  will  reach  it  from  underneath  and  force  it  to 
rise  to  its  fullest  capacity  before  the  crust  is  formed  on  top. 

The  oven  door  should  not  be  opened  during  the  first  ten 
minutes  of  the  baking  process.  When  it  is  opened,  it  should  be 
closed  gently,  since  a  sudden  jar  or  draft  may  cause  the  mixture 
to  fall.  If  a  mixture  is  baking  unevenly,  it  may  be  turned  in 
the  oven  before  the  top  crust  begins  to  harden;  if  it  is  turned 
after  the  crust  is  formed,  the  cake  may  fall  and  will  not  rise 
again. 

The  stages  in  baking  are  as  follows:  The  mixture  begins  to 
rise;  it  continues  to  rise  and  begins  to  brown  in  spots;  it  rises 
in  the  center  and  browns  over  the  top;  it  settles  to  a  level  and 
shrinks  from  the  sides  of  the  pan. 


480 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Oven  temperatures. 

A  correct  oven  temperature  is  very  important  in  baking.  The 
correct  temperature  depends  on  the  size  of  the  loaf  and  the  con- 
stituents used  in  the  mixture. 

The  following  classification  of  temperatures  for  baking  vari- 
ous mixtures  is  suggested :  * 

1.  Slow  oven  (250°  to  350°  F.),  for  custards  and  meringues. 

2.  Moderate  oven  (350°  to  400°  F.),  for  bread,  gingerbread,  plain  cake, 
cookies,  all  molasses  mixtures. 

3.  Hot  oven  (400°  to  450°  F.),  for  Parkerhouse  rolls,  and  popovers.  In 
baking  popovers,  the  oven  should  be  cooled  to  moderate  heat  after  the  first 
ten  minutes. 

4.  Very  hot  oven  (450°  to  550°  F.),  for  pastry.  After  the  first  six  min- 
utes the  temperature  should  be  lowered  to  ''hot." 

Sponge  cake  should  be  baked  in  an  oven  with  a  temperature 
between  ^^slow"  and  '^moderate." 

Baking  powder  biscuits  should  be  baked  in  an  oven  with  a 
temperature  between  ^'hot^/  and  ^^very  hot.^' 

The  following  tests  for  oven  temperatures  may  be  used: 
1.  When  glazed  white  paper  placed  in  an  oven  becomes 

TABLE  XXVIII. — Time-table  for  Baking  Batters  and  Doughs 


Mixture 


Time  required 
{minutes) 


Biscuits,  baking  powder  or  soda 

Rolls,  raised  

Bread,  yeast  

Cake,  layer  

Cake,  loaf  

Cookies  

Corn  cake,  thick  

Muffins,  baking  powder  

Popovers  

Tarts  

Pies  


10  to  15 
10  to  20 
45  to  60 
15  to  30 
35  to  60 
5  to  10 
30  to  40 
20  to  25 
40  to  50 
10  to  12 
30  to  60 


*May  B.  Van  Arsdale.  Some  Attempts  to  Standardize  Oven  Tempera- 
atures  for  Cookery  Processes,  Tech.  Education  Bull.  22,  published  by 
Teachers  College,  Columbia  Univ. 


BATTERS  AND  DOUGHS 


481 


brown  in  five  minutes,  the  oven  is  moderate  (350°  to  400°  F.) ; 
2.  when  glazed  white  paper  placed  in  an  oven  becomes  dark 
brown  in  five  minutes,  the  oven  is  hot;  3.  experience  will  make 
the  hand  a  fairly  reliable  tester  for  oven  temperatures;  4.  an 
oven  thermometer  is  essential  in  learning  to  bake  with  the  mini- 
mimi  of  failures. 

Tests  for  determining  when  breads  and  cakes  are  done. 

Any  of  the  following  tests  may  be  used  to  determine  when  a 
mixture  is  done:  1.  When  the  color  is  a  rich  golden  brown;  2. 
when  the  mixture  shrinks  away  from  the  sides  of  the  pan;  3. 
when  the  sides  of  the  pan  sizzle  when  touched  with  a  damp 
finger;  4.  when  a  clean  toothpick  inserted  comes  out  free  from 
any  particles  of  the  mixture;  5.  when  a  cake  springs  back  if 
pressed  gently  on  top. 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


3  o       O       O  CO 

;       O  O  O  O  Q  0--~ 

i  o    ft-^  a-^  ft'-^ 


g  s  § 


(N      (N  COCO 


pq  Ph 


I 


CHAPTER  XXII 


1^  CAKES 

Cakes  may  be  divided  into  three  classes :  cakes  made  with 
yeast,  sponge  cakes,  and  butter  cakes,  or  cakes  made  with 
shortening.  . 

CAKES  MADE  WITH  YEAST 

The  points  which  are  essential  for  success  in  bread-making 
(page  495)  should  be  observed  in  mixing  cakes  lightened  with 
yeast.  Since  sugar,  butter,  and  eggs  have  a  tendency  to  retard 
fermentation,  they  should  be  added  either  to  the  light  sponge 
or  to  the  light  dough.  Brioche  and  raised  doughnuts  are  ex- 
amples of  cakes  made  with  yeast. 

SPONGE  CAKES 

Sponge  cakes  are  really  a  variation  of  a  souffle  or  puffy  ome- 
let. They  are  made  without  fat.  They  may  be  leavened  with 
eggs  alone,  or  with  baking  powder  and  eggs.  Plain  sponge 
cakes,  choux  paste,  lady-fingers,  macaroons  and  meringues  are 
examples  of  this  type  of  cake.  Sponge  cakes  should  never  be 
cut  with  a  knife.  They  should  be  broken  or  separated  with 
two  forks  by  placing  the  backs  of  the  tines  together  and  gently 
pulling  the  cake  apart. 

Method  of  mixing. 

(1)  Separate  the  whites  of  the  eggs  from  the  yolks;  (2)  beat  the  yolks 
until  they  are  thick  and  lemon-colored,  scraping  them  down  from  the  sides 
with  a  spatula  to  prevent  their  drying  on  the  bowl;  (3)  add  the  sifted  sugar 
gradually,  beating  the  mixture  constantly;  (4)  add  the  flavoring,  if  it  is  to 
be  used;  (5)  beat  the  whites  until  they  will  stay  in  the  bowl  when  it  is 
inverted,  that  is,  until  they  are  stiff  but  not  dry;  (6)  fold  the  whites  quickly 
into  the  first  mixture,  until  they  are  not  visible  in  large  amounts;  (7)  sift 
the  salt  and  the  flour  several  times.  If  baking  powder  is  used,  sift  it  with 
the  flour  and  the  salt;  (8)  fold  the  dry  ingredients  carefully  into  the  mix- 
Wk  483 


484 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


ture.  It  should  not  be  beaten,  because  the  air  bubbles  that  make  the  cake 
light  may  thus  be  broken,  but  it  should  be  cut  and  folded  until  no  dry 
flour  is  visible. 

Method  of  baking. 

The  pans  for  sponge  cake  should  be  perfectly  clean.  They 
should  not  be  greased.  The  pans  should  be  filled  accordmg  to 
the  directions  on  page  479.  Sponge  cakes  should  be  baked  in  a 
slow  oven  from  1  to  13^  hours.  When  the  cake  is  done  it  will 
begin  to  shrink  from  the  sides  of  the  pan,  and  it  will  rebound 
when  pressed  lightly  on  top  with  the  finger.  Sponge  cakes 
should  not  be  removed  from  the  pan  until  cold.  The  pan  should 
be  inverted  on  a  cake-rack  and  the  cake  should  be  allowed  to 
cool  gradually  in  a  place  that  is  free  from  a  draft. 

BUTTER  CAKES 

Recipes  for  butter  cakes  call  for  various  proportions  of  ma- 
terials. Results  produced  by  such  variations  are  discussed 
briefly  on  pages  474  to  477.  With  a  fair  understanding  of  the 
possibilities  of  substituting  one  material  for  another,  cake  re- 
cipes may  be  varied  to  make  the  best  use  of  the  materials  on 
hand  or  to  produce  the  desired  result  in  lightness  or  richness. 
Formulas  that  are  good  to  use  as  a  basis  for  substitution  are 
given  on  page  482.  Because  of  the  difference  in  grades  of  flour, 
it  is  difficult  to  give  the  exact  amount  of  flour  required  to  pro- 
duce the  best  result.  Butter  cakes  include  cup  cakes,  pound 
cakes,  cookies,  and  wafers.  They  may  be  plain  or  may  contain 
fruit  or  nuts.  Directions  for  mixing  and  baking  butter  cakes 
are  given  on  pages  478  and  479.  Directions  for  filhng  the  pans 
are  given  on  page  479. 

INGREDIENTS  USED  IN  CAKES 

A  discussion  of  the  essential  materials  used  in  cakes  is  given 
on  pages  474  to  477.  Following  are  suggestions  on  certain  ac- 
cessory materials.* 

*  Mills,  Katherine  H.  Making  Cake.  Part  I.  Cornell  Reading-Course 
for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  73. 


CAKES 


485 


Several  types  of  fruit  are  commonly  used  in  making  cake; 
first,  dried  fruits  and  candied  fruits,  such  as  currants,  raisins, 
citron,  cherries,  pineapple;  second,  fresh  raw  fruits,  such  as 
blueberries,  and  cherries;  third,  cooked  fruit  pulp,  such  as  apple- 
sauce and  blackberry  jam.  As  a  general  rule  it  may  be  said  that 
when  fruit  is  used  in  making  cake,  the  batter  will  need  to  be 
stiffer  than  for  ordinary  cake,  the  stiffness  depending  on  the 
weight  of  the  pieces  of  the  fruit  to  be  held  in  place.  A 
cake  dough  containing  raisins  will  need  to  be  stiffer  than  one 
containing  blueberries,  and  a  cake  dough  containing  blueberries 
will  need  to  be  stiffer  than  one  made  with  apple-sauce  or  jam. 
The  presence  of  particles  of  dried  fruit  increases  the  difficulties 
in  baking  cake,  as  fruit  scorches  easily  and  some  of  the  fruit 
will  be  at  the  surface  of  the  cake.  Rich  fruit  cakes  should, 
therefore,  be  baked  in  a  very  slow  oven.  This  not  only  prevents 
scorching,  but  also  improves  the  flavor,  since  the  fruit  flavor 
blends  with  that  of  the  other  ingredients. 

Chocolate  contains  a  hard  fat  which  adds  richness  to  cake, 
but  which  tends  to  make  it  stiff  as  it  dries  out  or  if  the  cake  is 
kept  in  a  very  cold  place.  Chocolate  cake  that  is  made  with 
sour  milk  and  soda  is  usually  softer  and  darker  in  color  than 
that  made  with  sweet  milk  and  baking  powder.  Chocolate 
contains  starch  which  thickens  the  batter,  so  that  less  flour  is 
needed  for  chocolate  cake  than  for  white  cake.  Alkali  darkens  a 
chocolate  mixture,  and  a  little  soda  added  to  the  melted  choco- 
late before  putting  it  into  the  batter  will  not  only  darken  the 
cake,  but  also  neutralize  any  free  fatty  acid  in  the  chocolate 
and  help  to  make  the  cake  light.  The  large  amount  of  soda  in 
some  recipes  for  chocolate  cake  serves  the  same  purpose. 

Cocoa  should  be  substituted  for  chocolate  by  weight  instead 
of  by  measure.  In  manufacturing  cocoa  nearly  all  of  the  fat 
has  been  removed  from  it,  so  that  cakes  made  by  substituting 
cocoa  in  a  recipe  calling  for  chocolate  are  Hkely  to  be  bready 
unless  a  small  quantity  of  additional  fat  is  added  (the  equivalent 
of  about  tablespoonful  of  butter  for  each  ounce,  or  34  cup- 
ful, of  cocoa  used) . 

Nuts  are  lighter  than  fruit  and  are  not  likely  to  settle  to  the 


486 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


bottom  of  the  tin;  therefore  they  do  not  need  to  be  floured. 
They  contain  fat,  and,  when  added  to  rich  cake,  the  amount 
of  fat  in  the  recipe  should  be  decreased  in  proportion  to  the 
richness  added  by  the  nuts.  From  1  to  13^  tablespoonfuls  less 
of  fat  to  each  cupful  of  nuts  is  usually  sufficient.  A  good  method 
of  preparing  nuts  for  cake  is  to  grind  them  through  the  coarse 
knife  of  the  food  chopper.  When  English  walnuts  or  other 
nut  meats  are  bought  already  shelled,  they  should  be  washed  and 
dried  in  the  oven  before  being  used. 

Cakes  made  of  good  materials  require  no  additional  flavoring. 
If  flavoring  is  desired,  fresh  fruit  juices  or  other  fresh  flavors  are 
preferable  to  commercial  extracts. 

CAKE  FILLINGS 

A  layer  cake  should  be  arranged  if  possible  in  such  a  way  that 
the  bottom  of  the  layers  will  receive  the  filling,  because  the 
bottom  is  more  porous  than  the  top  and  consequently  takes  the 
filling  better.  FiUings  may  be  classified  as  cream  fillings, 
fruit  fillings,  and  pastes. 

CAKE  FKOSTINGS 

A  cake  may  be  merely  dusted  over  the  top  with  powdered 
sugar  and  the  layers  put  together  with  a  cream  filling.  The 
sugar  will  stick  to  the  cake  better  if  the  white  of  an  egg  or  fruit 
jelly  has  been  brushed  over  the  top  first.  Fruit  or  nuts,  and 
sugar  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  top  of  a  cake  before  it  is  baked. 

Frostings  which  are  made  of  sugar  and  liquid  and  which  com- 
pletely cover  the  surface  of  a  cake,  may  be  either  cooked  or 
uncooked.  Various  kinds  of  sugar  may  be  used,  and  nuts  or 
fruit  if  desired.  Uncooked  frostings  should  be  made  of  confec- 
tioner's sugar.  The  sugar  should  always  be  sifted.  The  rules 
for  sugar  cookery  (page  576)  should  be  followed  in  making 
cooked  frosting. 

For  cutting  a  frosted  cake,  a  knife  dipped  in  boiling  water 
should  be  used  in  order  to  prevent  breaking  the  frosting. 

In  frosting  a  layer  cake,  it  has  been  found  helpful  to  pin  a 
strip  of  glazed  paper  about  an  inch  higher  than  the  cake  around 


CAKES 


487 


it.  This  will  serve  as  a  retainer  when  the  frosting  is  poured  on 
the  cake.  After  the  frosting  has  set,  the  strip  of  paper  should 
be  removed,  using  a  thin-bladed  knife  that  has  been  wet  in 
hot  water. 

Boiled  frostingsf^ 

In  making  boiled  frosting,  just  as  in  making  cake,  it  is 
possible  to  vary  the  amounts  of  ingredients  used  in  propor- 
tion to  the  time  of  cooking.  There  are  three  ingredients 
essential  to  the  making  of  any  so-called  boiled  frosting,  water, 
sugar,  and  white  of  egg.  Cream  of  tartar  may  be  used 
with  good  effect,  for  it  gives  the  frosting  a  creamy  consist- 
ency, but  if  none  is  at  hand  the  same  effect  may  be  produced 
by  substituting  vinegar  or  by  increasing  the  amount  of  water 
and  thus  prolonging  the  time  of  cooking.  When  the  amount 
of  white  of  egg  used  in  a  recipe  is  increased,  the  temperature 
to  which  the  sugar  solution  is  cooked  should  be  increased. 


This  is  the  old  standard  recipe  and  it  makes  a  rather  dense, 
sweet  frosting.  The  addition  of  another  egg-white  will  make  a 
more  fluffy  frosting.  Since  eggs  vary  in  size,  ^/e  cup  of  white  of 
egg  may  be  used  to  give  a  definite  result.  This  recipe  will  make 
sufficient  frosting  for  the  top  of  a  cake  about  nine  inches  in 
diameter. 

Method  I. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  and  cream  of  tartar  in  the  water  over  the  heat, 
stirring  the  mixture  only  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  If  one  egg  is  to  be 
used,  let  the  sugar  mixture  boil  until  it  reaches  the  soft-ball  stage  (238°  F.), 
or  until  it  forms  threads  when  some  of  it  is  dropped  from  the  tines  of  a 
fork.  If  two  eggs  are  to  be  used,  boil  the  sugar  mixture  until  it  reaches 
a  higher  temperature,  about  244°  F.,  the  hard-ball  stage.  Do  not  move 
the  dish  or  stir  the  sirup  during  the  remainder  of  the  period  of  cooking. 
Cover  the  pan  during  the  first  few  minutes  that  the  sugar  solution  is 

*  Mills,  Katherine  H.  Making  Cake.  Part  II.  Cornell  Reading-Course 
for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  75.) 


Recipe 


1  cup  sugar 
3^2  cup  water 


1/16  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
White  of  1  egg 


488 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


boiling,  so  that  steam  may  collect  on  the  sides  of  the  pan.  This  will  help 
to  prevent  the  formation  of  large  crystals  that  would  cause  the  sirup  to 
crystallize  in  coarse  grains  and  that  would  spoil  the  texture  of  the  frosting. 
After  removing  the  cover  of  the  pan,  insert  the  candy  thermometer  and 
wash  from  the  sides  of  the  pan  any  crystals  that  may  form,  using  a  brush 
or  cloth  that  has  been  wet  with  cold  water.  When  the  sirup  is  cooked, 
pour  it  slowly  on  the  beaten  white  of  the  egg,  using  a  Dover  egg-beater 
and  beating  continually  while  pouring.  Continue  beating  until  the  frost- 
ing is  cooled  and  is  stiff  enough  to  spread  on  the  cake  and  remain  in  place. 
If  the  mixture  does  not  thicken  properly,  it  may  be  cooked  again  by 
Method  II,  twice-cooked  frosting. 

Method  II. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water  and  boil  the  mixture  without  stirring 
until  it  reaches  the  hard-ball  stage  (246°  F.),  or  until  the  sirup  when 
dropped  from  a  spoon  will  form  a  long  thread  with  short  threads  branching 
from  the  main  one.  Remove  the  sirup  carefully  from  the  fire,  and  allow 
it  to  cool  while  the  whites  of  the  eggs  are  being  beaten  until  they  are  stiff 
and  dry.  They  should  be  beaten  in  the  upper  part  of  the  double  boiler, 
as  this  will  save  utensils,  materials,  and  time.  Pour  the  sirup  slowly 
over  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  beating  the  mixture  as  long  as  possible 
with  a  Dover  egg-beater  and  after  that  with  a  spoon,  until  the  mixture  is 
light  and  stiff.  Set  the  dish  containing  the  frosting  over  hot  water,  and 
allow  the  mixture  to  cook.  Beat  it  constantly  until  it  is  light  and  fluffy, 
rises  slightly  in  the  pan,  and  as  it  is  stirred  begins  to  give  a  slight  scraping 
sound  against  the  sides  of  the  dish.  This  scraping  sound  may  be  learned 
only  through  experience,  but  it  is  easily  detected.  Remove  the  dish  of 
frosting  at  once  from  the  hot  water.  If  the  frosting  is  cooked  too  long 
over  the  hot  water  it  will  be  granular.  The  frosting  will  probably  be  stiff 
enough  to  spread  at  once;  if  it  is  not,  stir  it  until  it  has  reached  the  proper 
consistency.  This  frosting  may  be  piled  on  a  cake  to  any  desired  thickness, 
or  it  may  be  used  in  a  tube  to  make  ornamental  frosting.  When  it  is 
properly  made  this  frosting  will  be  very  light,  fine  grained,  soft  and  springy. 
After  it  has  been  spread  on  a  cake,  it  will  form  a  thin  crust  on  top  and  will 
keep  moist  and  soft  underneath  for  several  days.  This  method  makes  a 
frosting  known  as  twice-cooked. 

Variations. 

1.  Allow  a  thin  layer  of  melted  sweet  chocolate  to  flow  over  the  top  of 
the  frosting  after  it  has  been  spread  on  the  cake  and  a  thin  crust  has 
formed  on  the  top. 

2.  Brown  or  maple  sugar  may  be  substituted  for  white  sugar.  The  sirup 
must  be  boiled  to  a  higher  temperature  (2^0°  F.)  before  the  mixture  will 
reach  the  soft-ball  stage. 

3.  Use  M  cup  of  dark-colored  strained  honey  and  ^  cup  of  granulated 
sugar,  or  use  3^  cup  light-colored  strained  honey  and  }/2  cup  granulated 


CAKES 


489 


sugar.  Add  3  tablespoons  of  water,  and  boil  the  mixture  until  it  reaches 
the  soft-ball  stage  (240°  F.),  or  until  it  begins  to  form  threads  when  some 
of  it  is  dropped  from  the  tines  of  a  fork.  Add  the  sirup  to  the  white  of 
egg  in  the  manner  described  in  Method  I.  This  frosting  stiffens  but  does 
not  grain,  and  should  be  spread  on  the  cake  immediately  before  using. 

4.  Freshly  grated  cocoanut  may  be  hberally  sprinkled  on  the  top  of  a 
cake  immediately  after  the  frosting  has  been  spread  on  it. 

5.  Chocolate  frosting  may  be  made  by  Recipe  I  for  boiled  frosting  by 
adding  2  squares  (2  ounces)  of  chocolate  to  the  sugar  and  water  mixture 
before  it  has  been  cooked.  The  directions  given  under  Method  I  may  be 
followed.  Another  method  is  to  add  melted  chocolate  to  the  white  frosting 
after  it  has  been  beaten  and  is  stiff  enough  to  spread.  The  amount  of 
chocolate  may  be  varied  to  suit  the  individual  taste. 

6.  One-haff  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  figs,  raisins,  dates,  or  any  combination 
of  nuts  and  these  fruits,  may  be  added  to  the  frosting  just  before  spreading 
it  on  the  cake. 


I 


CHAPTER  XXIII 
PASTRY 

By  Winifred  Moses  and  Lucile  Brewer 

Pastry  is  a  shortened  dough,  a  mixture  of  flour,  shortening, 
and  Hquid  put  together  in  different  ways,  according  to  the  pur- 
pose for  which  it  is  to  be  used.  Three  kinds  are  in  common 
use:  (1)  Plain  pastry,  in  which  the  shortening  is  worked  into 
the  flour  by  cutting  or  chopping;  (2)  puff  pastry,  in  which  the 
shortening  is  worked  into  the  paste  by  folding  and  rolUng; 
(3)  flaky  pastry,  in  which  the  shortening  is  worked  into  the 
flour  by  a  combination  of  these  two  methods. 

INGREDIENTS 

Flour, 

Pastry  flour,  made  from  winter  wheat,  makes  the  best  pastry. 
It  differs  from  ordinary  bread  flour  made  from  spring  wheat 
in  that  it  contains  less  gluten  and  more  starch ;  it  is  softer,  whiter, 
and  more  velvety.  One  of  the  best  tests  for  winter  wheat  flour 
is  that  it  easily  retains  the  impress  of  the  fingers,  while  spring 
wheat  flour  tends  to  fall  apart  as  quickly  as  the  pressure  is 
removed. 

Bread  flour  may  be  made  to  approximate  pastry  flour  in 
effect  by  substituting  two  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  for  two 
tablespoons  of  flour  in  each  cup. 

Liquid. 

Water  is  used  as  the  liquid  in  making  pastry.  It  should  be  as 
nearly  ice  cold  as  possible,  except  when  beef  drippings  and  warm 
water  are  used.  To  make  pastry  tender,  the  smallest  possible 
amount  of  water  that  will  hold  the  ingredients  together  is  used. 
The  actual  amount  depends  on  the  water-absorbing  quality  of 

490 


PA8TRY 


491 


the  flour,  and  on  the  amount  of  fat  used — the  more  fat,  the  less 
moisture  required. 

Fat. 

The  following  kinds  of  fat  may  be  used :  butter,  oleomargar- 
ine, vegetable  fat,  lard,  lard  substitutes,  beef  drippings,  chicken 
fat,  and  suet.  When  suet  is  used,  it  is  melted  over  boiling  water 
and  stirred  while  hot  into  the  flour.  The  paste  is  then  kneaded 
and  rolled  into  a  rather  thick  sheet  and  shaped  in  a  mold.  The 
effects  of  the  various  fats  are  as  follows:  lard:  a  soft,  tender 
crust;  cottolene:  a  soft,  tender  crust,  slightly  darker  in  color 
than  if  lard  is  used;  vegetable  oils:  a  less  flaky  crust  and  darker 
in  color  than  if  lard  is  used;  suet:  a  paore  compact  and  firm 
crust  than  if  lard  is  used.  It  has  been  found  by  experiment 
that  more  butter  than  lard  is  required  and  more  lard  than  lard 
substitute,  and  that  less  shortening  is  needed  when  pastry  flour 
is  used  than  when  bread  flour  is  employed. 

For  1  cup  of  bread  flour  one  should  use:  Vs  cup  of  lard;  Vs 
cup  plus  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  V3  cup  minus  1  tablespoon  of 
lard  substitute. 

For  I  cup  of  pastry  flour  one  should  use:  34  cup  of  lard;  34 
cup  plus  ^3  tablespoon  of  butter;  34  cup  minus  tablespoon 
of  lard  substitute. 

Lard  makes  the  tenderer  crust,  but  butter  gives  the  better 
flavor.  For  equivalent  measures  of  various  fats  see  page  477. 

Baking  powder. 

Baking  powder  may  be  used  to  help  leaven  the  crust,  in  the 
proportion  of  34  teaspoon  to  1  cup  of  flour.  Usually  the  only 
leavening  agents  used  in  pastry  are  the  air  and  water  which  ex- 
pand when  heated. 

Salt. 

If  an  unsalted  fat  is  used,  salt  should  be  added  in  the  pro- 
portion of  34  teaspoon  of  salt  to  1  cup  of  flour. 

CHARACTERISTICS  OF  GOOD  PASTRY 

Lightness  depends  on  the  amount  of  air  incorporated,  on  the 
expansion  of  that  air,  and  on  the  presence  of  baking  powder. 


492 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


If  the  materials  used  are  cold  and  the  manipulation  is  carried  on 
in  a  cold  room,  or  if  the  paste  is  chilled  by  being  placed  in  a  re- 
frigerator, the  expansion  of  the  inclosed  air  is  greater  during  the 
baking  process. 

Flakiness  results  when  the  ingredients  are  so  mixed  as  to  make 
layers.  To  accomplish  this,  fat  is  not  thoroughly  mixed  into 
the  dry  ingredients,  but  is  left  in  pieces  by  being  cut  in  with  a 
knife  or  rubbed  in  with  a  spoon. 

Tenderness  depends  on  the  relative  amounts  of  fat  and  water 
used  and  on  the  manipulation.  The  more  fat  and  the  less  water 
used,  within  limits,  the  tenderer  will  be  the  crust.  Handling 
the  paste  develops  elasticity  by  developing  gluten,  and  so  makes 
a  tough  crust.  If  the  fingers  are  used  to  mix  the  fat  with  the 
flour,  the  heat  of  the  fingers  melts  the  fat  and  causes  it  to  act  as 
liquid;  thus  more  flour  is  required,  which  tends  to  make  a  tough 
paste. 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  MAKING  PLAIN  PASTRY 

Recipe  for  plain  pastry. 

1  cup  flour  teaspoon  salt 

34-1/3  cup  shortening  Water 

(1)  Mix  the  flour  and  salt;  (2)  cut  in  the  fat,  and  add  only  enough  water 
to  hold  the  ingredients  together;  (3)  turn  the  mixture  onto  a  slightly  floured 
board  and  turn  it  with  a  spatula  to  cover  it  evenly  with  flour;  (4)  if  two 
crusts  are  to  be  made,  cut  the  paste  in  twO  portions  and  roll  them  sep- 
arately and  lightly  with  a  rolling-pin,  using  motions  outward  from  the  cen- 
ter; (5)  keep  the  dough  as  nearly  the  desired  shape  and  as  uniform  in 
thickness  as  possible,  roll  it  until  the  paste  is  very  thin;  (6)  after  each  few 
rolling  motions,  loosen  the  dough  from  the  board  to  prevent  sticking. 

One-crust  pie. 

Place  the  crust  in  the  pie  pan,  being  careful  that  it  is  smooth,  but  not 
at  all  stretched.  A  perforated  pan  of  tin  or  agate  ware  is  best.  The  pan 
should  never  be  greased.  With  scissors  cut  around  the  edges,  leaving  a 
margin  of  about  H  inch.  Turn  this  slightly  under,  and  press  it  into  fancy 
edges  with  the  fingers.  Fill  the  crust,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
40  minutes.  Fillings  for  one-crust  pies  are  made  with  milk  and  egg  founda- 
tions, such  as  custard,  cream,  and  pumpkin,  or  from  cooked  fruit,  such 
as  apple-sauce.  These  liquid  fillings  are  likely  to  soak  into  the  pie  crust 
during  the  process  of  baking,  making  a  soggy  crust.  This  may  be  avoided 
by  brushing  over  the  crust  with  white  of  egg  and  placing  the  unfilled  crust 


PASTRY 


493 


in  a  hot  oven  long  enough  to  coagulate  the  egg-white,  thus  forming  a 
coating  to  prevent  the  filling  from  soaking  into  the  crust.  Or  instead  of 
heating  the  crust  in  the  oven,  the  filling  may  be  heated  separately  to  such 
a  temperature  that  on  adding  it  to  the  crust  it  will  coagulate  the  white  of 


Crust  baked  without  filling. 

The  crust  is  sometimes  baked  first  and  then  filled  with  a  cooked  filUng. 
Many  persons  prefer  this  kind  of  pie  since  the  crust  is  crisp  and  well  baked. 
Invert  a  pie  plate,  cover  the  outside  with  pastry,  fit  it  carefully  to  the 
plate,  and  press  the  edge  w^ell  to  the  edge  of  the  plate.  Trim  the  edge 
if  necessary,  set  the  pie  plate  on  a  tin  sheet  to  prevent  the  edge  of  the 
paste  from  touching  the  floor  of  the  oven.  Prick  the  crust  well  with  a 
fork,  and  bake  it  from  12  to  15  minutes,  or  until  it  is  thoroughly  baked. 
Shp  the  crust  from  the  outside  of  the  pan,  and  put  it  in  place  as  an  imder 
crust.  Use  any  cooked  filHng,  and  place  over  the  top  strips  or  figiures  of 
baked  pastry,  or  a  meringue. 

Two-crust  pie. 

The  lower  crust  is  placed  in  the  pie  pan  as  for  a  one-crust  pie,  but  in 
this  case  the  edges  should  be  cut  close  and  evenly  with  a  knife.  The 
flavored  filling  is  then  added.  The  upper  crust  should  be  rolled  rather 
thick,  brushed  with  butter,  and  lightly  sprinkled  wdth  flour.  Shts  should 
be  cut  in  the  crust  to  allow  for  the  escape  of  steam.  The  edges  of  the 
lower  crust  are  then  moistened  with  water  and  the  upper  crust  laid  over 
the  pie,  care  again  being  taken  not  to  stretch  the  crust.  The  edges  then 
are  cut  and  pressed  firmly  together  into  a  fancy  shape  with  the  fingers  or 
a  fork.  Allow  water  to  run  over  the  top  of  the  crust  to  make  a  flaky  finish. 
If  a  shiny  finish  is  preferred,  brush  over  the  top  with  a  mixture  of  shghtly 
beaten  white  of  egg  and  water,  without  buttering  and  flouring  the  top. 
If  the  filling  is  of  a  juicy  type,  a  paper  tube  inserted  in  one  of  the  slits  in 
the  crust  will  allow  the  steam  to  escape  readily  and  prevent  the  juice  from 
running  out.  Bake  the  pie  in  a  moderate  oven  (page  480)  for  40  minutes. 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  MAKING  FLAKY  PASTRY 

Flaky  pastry  made  half  of  washed  butter  and  half  of  other 
shortening  is  used  for  pie  crusts,  turnovers,  cheese  straws,  and 
tarts. 

Recipe  for  flaky  pastry. 


3/8  to      cup  water 

(1)  Wash  the  butter  until  it  is  creamy  and  free  from  milk;  (2)  sift  the 
flour  and  salt  twice;  (3)  cut  the  K  cup  shortening  into  the  flour  with  a 


egg. 


3  cups  flour 
}4  teaspoon  salt 


^2  cup  shortening 
K  cup  washed  butter 


494 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


knife;  (4)  add  cold  water  gradually,  mixing  it  with  a  knife  to  a  paste  as 
for  plain  pastry;  it  must  not  be  sticky;  (5)  knead  it  slightly;  (6)  cover  it, 
and  set  it  in  a  cool  place  for  5  minutes;  (7)  pat  it  with  a  rolling-pin,  and 
roll  it  out  into  a  rectangular  sheet;  (8)  spread  half  the  butter  on  half 
the  surface  and  fold,  press  down  the  edges  so  that  no  air  nor  butter  can 
escape,  then  spread  the  remainder  of  the  butter  on  half  again  and  fold, 
pinching  the  edges  tightly  together;  (9)  set  it  in  a  cool  place  again  for  5 
minutes;  (10)  roll  the  pastry  two  or  three  times,  allowing  it  to  cool  be- 
tween each  turn;  (11)  roll  it  out  to  1/8  inch  thickness,  and  bake  it  in  a  hot 
oven  (page  480). 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  MAKING  PUFF  PASTRY 

Puff  paste  is  used  when  pastry  of  great  flakiness  and  lightness 
is  desired,  as  in  patty  shells,  tarts,  fruit  rolls,  tea  cakes,  Floren- 
tine meringues,  and  the  like. 

Recipe  for  puff  pastry. 

1  pound  washed  butter 
1^2  pounds  pastry  flour 
1  cup  ice  water 

(1)  Wash  the  butter  until  it  is  creamy  and  squeeze  out  all  the  liquid; 
(2)  separate  th^  butter  into  six  parts;  (3)  take  out  3^  pound  of  the  flour;  | 
(4)  cut  one  piece  of  butter  into  the  pound  of  flour,  add  ice  water,  and  I 
mix  the  ingredients  into  a  paste  with  as  little  handhng  as  possible;  (5) 
knead  the  dough  until  it  is  smooth  and  elastic,  cover  it,  set  it  in  a  cool 
place  for  5  minutes;  (6)  roll  the  paste,  outward  from  the  center,  into  a  rec- 
tangular piece;  (7)  place  one  piece  of  the  butter  on  one-half  the  surface, 
fold  the  pastry  over,  and  pinch  down  the  edges  to  keep  in  the  air;  (8)  fold 
the  right  edge  two-thirds  of  the  way  back,  fold  the  left  edge  back  over 
this,  pinch  down  the  edges  again  so  that  no  air  or  butter  can  escape,  cover 
the  paste,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  5  minutes;  (9)  roll  it  out  into 
another  rectangle,  and  repeat  the  former  process  with  the  next  pat  of  j 
butter,  being  sure  to  press  the  edges  each  time  to  keep  in  both  the  air  and  j 
the  butter;  (10)  repeat  this  process  until  all  pats  of  butter  have  been  J 
used;  each  time  before  rolling  the  paste,  turn  it  halfway  round  in  order 
to  roll  from  another  side,  and  always  roll  from  you;  (11)  after  the 
final  rolling,  the  paste  must  be  chilled  on  ice  or  in  a  very  cool  place  for 
an  hour  or  two;  (12)  bake  it  in  a  hot  oven  (page  480)  with  the  heat  coming 
from  below,  and  set  it  on  the  floor  of  even  a  gas  oven  for  the  first  5  minutes. 

Puff  pastry  when  baked  should  be  eight  times  as  thick  as 
when  put  into  the  oven.  It  is  very  rich  and  has  a  surface  that  is 
light,  flaky,  and  rather  shiny. 


CHAPTER  XXIV 


YEAST  BREAD 

By  Claribel  Nye 

The  making  of  yeast  bread  has  a  certain  fascination  because 
success  depends  largely  on  the  proper  control  of  living  organ- 
isms, or  yeasts.  If  dough  is  left  for  too  long  or  is  kept  too  warm, 
the  yeast  plants  become  weakened;  then  the  bacteria  that  may 
be  present  grow  and  produce  an  acid,  making  the  bread  sour. 
The  milk  is  scalded  in  order  to  kill  any  bacteria  present.  Proper 
baking  of  bread  kills  all  bacteria,  yeasts,  and  molds,  and  insures 
its  keeping,  if  it  is  carefully  handled  and  stored  afterwards. 

ingredients 

The  essential  ingredients  for  yeast  bread  are  flour,  yeast, 
liquid,  and  salt.  Other  ingredients  often  added  for  flavor, 
texture,  or  keeping  quality  are  sugar,  shortening,  and  potatoes. 
In  place  of  the  customary  wheat,  corn,  barley,  oats,  rice,  po- 
tatoes, peanuts,  or  breadcrumbs  may  be  used. 
In  place  of  some  of  the  wheat  ordinarily  used,  corn,  barley, 
oats,  rice,  potatoes,  peanuts,  or  breadcrumbs  may  be  used. 

The  cereals  may  be  ground  and  added  with  the  flour,  or  they 
may  be  cooked  to  a  mush  before  they  are  added  to  the  batter. 

Flour. 

The  best  bread  flour  is  called  strong  flour  and  is  made  from 
hard  spring  wheat.  This  wheat  is  grown  in  the  Dakotas,  Min- 
nesota, a  part  of  Iowa,  Nebraska,  northern  Kansas,  northern 
Colorado,  Wyoming,  and  Montana.  A  strong  winter  wheat 
is  grown  in  a  limited  number  of  states,  notably  Kansas.  A 
strong  bread  flour  is  slightly  granular,  has  a  creamy  color,  and 
gives  bread  of  maximum  volume. 

495 


496 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Wheat  and  rye  flours  are  particularly  adapted  to  bread-mak- 
ing because  they  contain  materials  which,  when  moistened,  form 
an  elastic  substance,  called  gluten.  The  gluten  expands  with 
the  pressure  of  heated  gases  in  baking  and  forms  a  framework 
surrounding  the  other  ingredients.  A  good  yeast  bread  generally 
contains  some  wheat  or  rye  flour,  although  other  cereals  can  well 
be  used  to  a  certain  extent. 

The  present  complex  standardized  process  of  milling  wheat 
is  the  result  of  a  gradual  remarkable  development  which  began 
in  the  days  when  women  were  millers,  the  mill  consisting  of 
two  stones  between  which  the  grain  was  ground.  The  patent, 
or  roller,  process  now  used  produces  a  flour  different  in  color, 
composition,  and  bread-making  qualities.  Although  wheat 
milled  by  the  roller  process  yields  a  flour  that  gives  a  white  loaf 
and  consequently  makes  its  appeal  to  the  eye,  the  flour  contains 
less  of  the  entire  wheat  kernel  than  that  produced  by  the  other 
method. 

The  patent  reduction,  or  roller,  process  is  so  named  because 
the  wheat  is  reduced  to  flour  by  being  put  through  a  series  of 
steel  rollers.  The  wheat  is  first  cleaned,  and  then  gradually 
reduced  to  flour  as  it  passes  through  a  series  of  steel  rollers, 
each  pair  adjusted  to  give  a  finer  product  than  the  preceding. 
As  the  wheat  passes  through  each  set  of  rollers,  a  little  of  it  is 
reduced  to  flour  and  the  remainder  is  called  middlings.  The 
middlings  are  then  carried  through  the  next  roller;  each  time 
the  result  is  flour  and  middlings.  The  bran  cannot  be  reduced 
to  flour  but  is  flattened  by  the  steel  rollers  and  separated  from 
the  flour.  The  quality  of  the  flour  that  results  from  the  blend- 
ing of  the  flours  obtained  from  the  different  rollers  depends  on 
the  skill  of  the  miller. 

Flour  is  sometimes  said  to  be  80  per  cent  patent.  This 
usually  means  that  80  per  cent  of  the  flour  obtained  from  the 
wheat  in  the  different  stages  of  milling  has  been  blended  for 
market.  The  term  patent  ^'  flour  came  into  use  when  the  roller, 
or  patent,  milhng  process  was  introduced;  its  meaning  at  the 
present  time  is  not  uniform  throughout  the  country. 

Graham,  from  whom  graham  flour  received  its  name,  believed 


YEAST  BREAD 


497 


that  the  entire  wheat  kernel  should  be  used  for  food  and  de- 
veloped a  mining  process  by  which  all  the  kernel,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  the  outer  inedible  coats,  was  used.  At  the  present  time, 
most  graham  flour  is  made  by  combining  bran  and  white  flour. 

Whole-wheat  flour  does  not  contain  so  large  a  percentage  of 
the  entire  wheat  kernel  as  does  graham.  However,  graham, 
because  of  its  coarseness,  may  be  irritating  to  the  digestive  tract 
of  some  persons. 

White  flour  contains  less  of  the  wheat  kernel  than  does  either 
whole-wheat  or  graham. 

Yeast. 

Yeasts  are  very  small  plants,  having  a  diameter  of  about 
3/1000  inch.  In  bread-making,  yeast  serves  two  functions: 
(1)  by  its  action  on  the  sugar  of  the  flour  it  forms  carbon  di- 
oxide gas,  which  makes  the  dough  light;  (2)  it  gives  the  char- 
acteristic flavor  which  is  found  in  bread  only  when  yeast  is 
used. 

Before  yeast  was  sold  commercially,  women  used  to  obtain 
it  by  exposing  batter  to  the  air  for  several  hours.  The  difficulty 
with  this  method  was  that  various  yeast  plants,  as  well  as  other 
organisms  present  in  the  air,  might  enter,  whereas  only  one 
type  of  yeast  is  best  for  bread-making.  Thus  the  flavor  of  the 
bread  was  not  always  desirable.  Old-fashioned  liquid  yeast, 
or  potato  yeast,  represents  the  housekeeper's  method.  The 
yeasts  grow  and  multiply  rapidly  in  potato  water  to  which 
salt  and  sugar  have  been  added.  This  mixture  is  then  kept  in 
a  cool  place  until  needed  for  bread-making.  The  disadvan- 
tage of  liquid  yeast  is  that  other  yeasts  and  organisms  find 
their  way  into  the  mixture  and  may  give  the  bread  a  peculiar 
flavor. 

For  the  commercial  product,  one  form  of  yeast  is  grown  under 
very  carefully  standardized  conditions.  The  yeasts  are  mixed 
with  cornmeal  and  the  mixture  pressed  into  cakes  and  dried; 
or  the  yeasts  are  mixed  with  starch  or  tapioca  flour,  pressed 
into  cakes,  and  sold  in  the  form  of  compressed  yeast.  In  the 
dried  form  they  will  keep  in  fairly  good  condition  for  months; 


498  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


compressed  yeast  keeps  for  only  a  few  days,  but  the  yeast  is 
much  more  active  than  it  is  in  the  dry  cakes  and,  therefore, 
bread  can  be  made  more  quickly  from  it. 

Liquid. 

The  liquid  used  in  bread-making  may  be  water,  whole  milk, 
skimmed  milk,  whey,  potato  water,  rice  water,  or  the  like. 
Increased  nutritive  value,  as  well  as  better  flavor  and  texture, 
are  points  in  favor  of  using  milk  in  some  of  its  forms  instead 
of  water. 

MIXING  AND  KNEADING 

Milk  for  making  bread  is  scalded  in  order  to  kill  any  organ- 
isms that  might  develop  under  the  favorable  conditions  offered 
and  thus  give  the  bread  a  bad  flavor. 

The  best  temperature  for  the  growth  of  yeast  is  75°  to  OO'^ 
F.  Below  40°  to  60°  F.  yeast  wifl  not  grow.  It  is  killed  at  140° 
F.  Therefore,  the  liquid  is  cooled  until  it  is  lukewarm  before 
the  yeast  is  added. 

Sponge  method. 

For  the  sponge  method  of  mixing  bread,  sufficient  flour  is 
used  to  make  a  batter.  This  is  13^2  cups  of  flour  to  1  cup  of 
liquid.  The  mixture  is  set  aside  until  the  surface  is  covered  with 
bubbles.  Sufficient  flour  to  make  a  dough  is  then  added.  The 
sponge  method  is  followed  frequently  when  dry  yeasfc  is  used. 
Yeast  plants  grow  rapidly  in  a  thin  batter,  and  as  they  are  not 
in  an  active  state  in  dry  yeast  cakes,  the  batter  makes  possible 
a  quick  growth  of  yeast.  With  compressed  yeast  the  sponge 
method  is  unnecessary. 

Straight-dough  method. 

For  the  straight-dough  method,  sufficient  flour  to  make  a 
dough  is  added  as  soon  as  the  yeast  has  been  added  to  the 
liquid.  The  dough  is  removed  to  a  floured  board  and  is  kneaded 
until  it  is  smooth  and  elastic,  and  until  it  wiU  not  stick  to  an 
unfloured  board.    Kneading  is  for  the  purpose  of  thoroughly 


YEAST  BREAD 


499 


mixing  all  the  ingredients,  developing  the  elasticity  of  the  gluten, 
and  incorporating  air  into  the  dough. 

Mixing  bread  by  a  machine. 

If  three  or  more  loaves  of  bread  are  being  made,  a  bread- 
mixer  saves  time  and  labor.  If  the  correct  proportion  of  flour 
to  Hquid  is  used,  and  the  mixing  is  continued  until  the  dough  is 
smooth  and  elastic,  the  same  result  will  be  obtained  by  machine- 
mixing  as  with  equal  care  by  hand-mixing.  Frequently  too 
much  flour  is  used.  This  causes  slow  rising,  and  if  the  dough 
is  made  into  loaves  before  the  rising  is  complete,  the  resulting 
bread  wifl  be  compact  and  inferior  in  other  respects. 

FERMEXTATIOX 

The  rising  of  dough  until  it  goes  into  the  pan  is  called  fer- 
mentation. The  best  temperatiu'e  for  the  growth  of  yeast  is 
80°  to  87°  F. 

If  a  strong  or  good  grade  of  bread  flour  is  used,  the  dough 
should  treble  its  original  size  in  the  first  rising.  If  a  weak  or 
poor  grade  of  flour  is  used,  the  dough  will  only  double  its  original 
size. 

The  texture  and  the  flavor  of  bread  is  improved  by  a  second 
rising  of  the  dough.  The  dough  should  increase  its  original  size 
by  only  one-half  during  the  second  rising. 

SHAPING  DOUGH 

Xo  flour  should  be  used  in  molding  loaves.  The  dough  is 
molded  b}^  folding  the  sides  under  several  times.  It  is  placed 
in  a  greased  tin  with  the  crease  on  the  bottom.  The  tins 
should  be  only  half  filled  with  the  dough. 

PROOFIXG 

The  rising  in  the  pan  is  called  ''  proofing." 

This  rising  can  be  more  rapid  than  in  fermentation.  Com- 
mercially, loaves  are  proofed  at  a  temperature  about  10°  above 
that  of  fermentation. 


500 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


BAKING 

Loaves  are  ready  to  be  baked  when  they  have  doubled  their 
original  size. 

The  baking  temperature  depends  somewhat  on  the  amount  of 
sugar  and  shortening  used  in  the  dough.  With  an  increase  in 
sugar  and  shortening,  there  should  be  a  decrease  in  temperature. 
The  best  temperature  for  plain  bread  dough  is  from  380°  to 
400°  F.  Loaves  weighing  13^  pounds  should  be  baked  from 
50  to  60  minutes  at  from  380°  to  400°  F. 

A  uniform  temperature  during  the  entire  baking  period  gives 
good  results,  although  many  authorities  beheve  the  tempera- 
ture should  be  increased  after  the  first  15  minutes.  Dough 
should  rise,  or  spring,  during  the  first  5  minutes  it  is  in  the  oven. 
At  the  end  of  15  minutes  it  should  begin  to  brown,  and  as  baking 
continues  the  bread  should  draw  away  from  the  sides  of  the  tin 
and  brown  on  all  sides. 

If  a  soft,  shiny  crust  is  desired,  the  loaves  should  be  greased 
5  minutes  before  baking  is  completed. 

Bread  should  be  removed  from  the  pans  as  soon  as  it  is  taken 
from  the  oven.  The  loaves  should  be  cooled  quickly,  in  cir- 
culating air  and  not  covered. 

''rope"  in  bread 
A  condition  in  bread  that  causes  considerable  trouble  and 
financial  loss  in  bakeries  and  occasionally  in  home  baking  is 
called  ''ropiness,"  and  the  bread  is  known  as  ''ropy  bread. 
Such  bread  for  several  hours  after  baking  looks,  smells,  and 
tastes  like  any  well-made  bread;  then  there  quickly  develops 
a  most  disagreeable  odor.  When  the  loaf  is  broken,  the  interior 
is  slimy,  sticky,  and  stringy.  Such  bread,  of  course,  is  not  fit 
for  food. 

"Rope'^  is  the  result  of  the  action  of  a  form  of  bacteria  which, 
if  present,  is  found  in  the  flour.  It  develops  only  in  very  hot 
weather.  The  organism  chiefly  responsible  for  ropiness  is  said 
to  be  generally  distributed  in  the  soil.  The  best  flours  may  be 
infected,  and  it  is  impossible  in  buying  flour  to  know  whether 
the  organism  is  present. 


YEAST  BREAD 


501 


When  the  difficulty  is  found,  all  utensils  and  containers  used 
for  flour,  bread-making,  or  storing  bread  should  be  sterilized 
by  boiling.  In  making  bread  from  the  remainder  of  the  flour 
on  hand  or  from  additional  flour  of  the  same  brand  bought 
during  the  hot  weather,  vinegar  should  be  added  to  the  liquid 
in  the  proportion  of  two  per  cent  of  the  amount  of  flour,  or 
about  1  tablespoon  to  each  pound  of  flour.  In  all  other  respects 
the  bread  should  be  made  in  the  usual  way.  The  bread  will 
not  have  as  good  a  bloom  as  under  normal  conditions,  but 
otherwise  it  is  not  inferior. 

RECIPES 

White  bread  {2  loaves) 

2  tablespoons  sugar — brown  or  granulated — honey,  molasses,  or  corn 

sirup.    (The  sugar  may  be  omitted.) 
2  tablespoons  any  kind  of  shortening.   (The  shortening  may  be  omitted.) 
2^2  teaspoons  salt 

2}/2  cups  liquid — water,  scalded  milk,  rice  water,  or  whey 

M  to  2  cakes  dry  or  compressed  yeast,  or  2/3  to  2  cups  potato  yeast 

6  to  8  cups  white  bread  flour 

The  amount  of  flour  varies  slightly.  A  smaller  quantity  of  good  bread 
flour  than  of  poor,  is  required.  If  the  flour  is  damp,  more  must  be  used 
than  if  it  is  dry.  The  shortening  and  the  sugar  may  be  omitted.  If  the 
bread  is  to  be  made  in  8  hours,  only  3^  cake  of  dry  or  compressed  yeast 
or  2/3  cup  of  liquid  yeast  need  be  used.  If  the  bread  is  to  be  made  in  4 
hours  or  less,  2  cakes  of  dry  or  compressed  yeast  or  2  cups  of  liquid  yeast 
are  needed. 

General  directions  for  mixing  and  baking  bread 

(1)  Add  the  hot  scalded  milk  or  other  liquid  to  the  sugar,  the  salt,  and 
the  shortening;  (2)  when  this  is  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast,  which  has  been 
softened  in  a  small  amount  of  lukewarm  water  (this  water  is  included  in 
the  amount  of  hquid  given  in  the  recipe) ;  (3)  add  one-half  the  amount  of 
flour  called  for  in  the  recipe;  beat  the  mixture  well  and  add  the  remainder 
of  the  flour  slowly  until  the  dough  is  stiff  enough  to  knead;  (4)  knead  the 
dough,  using  as  httle  flour  as  possible  on  the  board,  and  adding  only 
enough  flour  to  keep  the  dough  from  sticking;  continue  kneading  until 
the  dough  is  smooth  and  will  form  a  ball  that  does  not  flatten  out  when 
it  stands  on  the  board;  when  the  dough  does  not  stick  to  the  board, 
on  which  there  is  no  flour,  it  has  been  sufficiently  kneaded;  (5)  moisten 
the  top  of  the  dough  with  water  or  fat  to  prevent  a  crust  forming  on  it, 
cover  the  dough  with  a  towel,  and  set  it  aside  to  rise  in  a  warm  place  at  a 
temperature  of  about  85°  to  90°  F.;  (6)  when  the  dough  has  risen  until  it  is 


502  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


twice  its  original  size,  work  it  down  by  folding  the  sides  under  four  times; 
(7)  cover  the  dough  again,  and  allow  it  to  rise  until  it  has  increased  its  size 
by  one-half;  (8)  shape  the  dough  into  loaves,  and  place  them  in  greased 
pans,  filling  the  pans  about  half  full;  (9)  allow  the  loaves  to  rise  until  they 
are  double  in  bulk  when  the  dough  will  begin  to  follow  the  shape  of  the 
pans;  (10)  bake  the  loaves  for  50  to  60  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  at 
a  temperature  from  380°  to  400°  F.;  the  bread  should  begin  to  brown 
at  the  end  of  15  minutes;  (11)  remove  the  bread  from  the  pans  at  once, 
and  place  the  loaves  where  they  will  cool  quickly;  do  not  cover  the  bread 
while  it  is  hot;  (12)  if  a  soft,  shiny  crust  is  desired,  grease  the  crust  5  min- 
utes before  the  baking  is  completed. 

Variations 

For  variation  in  kind  of  bread,  use  the  recipes  and  directions  for  making 
white  bread,  substituting,  according  to  the  following  suggestions,  other 
flour  or  cereals  for  part  of  the  white  flour.  The  substitutes  may  be  used 
in  larger  proportions  than  are  here  indicated,  but  the  loaves  will  not  be  so 
light  or  so  similar  to  white  bread. 

Entire  wheat  bread :  6  cups  entire  wheat  flour,  2  cups  white  bread  flour. 
Follow  the  general  directions. 

Graham  bread:  6  cups  graham  flour,  2  cups  white  bread  flour.  Follow 
the  general  directions. 

Rolled  oats  bread  (not  kneaded):  IH  cups  rolled  oats,  5^  cups  white 
bread  flour.  Pour  boiling  milk  or  other  liquid  over  the  oats,  the  salt,  and 
the  sugar.  When  the  mixture  is  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast.  Add  the  flour, 
and  beat  the  dough  well.  When  it  has  doubled  in  bulk,  beat  it  well.  Turn 
it  into  greased  bread  tins.  When  it  has  doubled  in  bulk,  bake  it  for  1 
hour.  Generally  molasses  or  brown  sugar  is  used  instead  of  granulated 
sugar. 

Rolled  oats  bread  (kneaded) :  2  cups  rolled  oats,  6  cups  white  bread  flour. 
Add  the  boiling  liquid  to  the  rolled  oats,  the  salt,  the  sugar,  and  the  shorten- 
ing; when  the  mixture  is  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast.  Then  add  the  flour, 
knead  the  dough,  and  proceed  according  to  the  general  directions. 

Rice  bread :  2  cups  cooked  rice,  rice  water  for  liquid,  3  cups  graham  flour, 
5^  cups  white  bread  flour.  Boil  3^  cup  of  rice  in  2  quarts  of  unsalted 
water  for  from  15  to  20  minutes.  Drain  the  rice,  and  dry  it  somewhat. 
Follow  the  general  directions. 

Wheat  bread  (breadcrumbs):  2  cups  breadcrumbs,  53^  cups  white 
bread  flour.  Add  the  boiling  liquid  to  the  breadcrumbs,  sugar,  shortening, 
and  salt.   When  the  mixture  is  lukewarm,  follow  the  general  directions. 

Wheat  bread  (home-ground  wheat):  4  cups  home-ground  wheat,  4  to 
43^  cups  white  bread  flour.   Follow  the  general  directions. 

Potato  flour  bread:  2  cups  potato  flour,  53^  cups  white  bread  flour. 
Follow  the  general  directions. 

Rye  bread:  3  cups  rye  flour,  43^  cups  white  bread  flour.    Follow  the 


YEAST  BREAD 


503 


general  directions.  Since  the  dough  is  soft  and  sticky,  it  is  difficult  to 
knead;  but  do  not  let  this  tempt  you  to  add  more  white  flour. 

Barley  bread:  4^  cups  home-ground  barley  meal,  43^  cups  white  bread 
flour.  Follow  the  general  directions.  One  cup  of  barley  makes  1^  cups 
of  barley  meal. 

Corn  bread:  2  cups  cornflour,  7  cups  white  bread  flour.  Follow  the 
general  directions. 

Combination  yeast  breads  (3  loaves)  * 

Directions  for  making  these  combination  breads  follow  the  recipes. 

White  Bread  (Basic  recij 
13  cups  flour 
2  tablespoons  corn  sirup 
5  teaspoons  salt 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 

1  quart  water 

Corn  Bread 
8  cups  flour 

13^  cups  cornmeal,  uncooked 
5  teaspoons  salt 

2  tablespoons  corn  sirup 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
5  cups  water 

Rolled  Oats  Bread 
8  cups  flour 

2^  cups  rolled  oats,  uncooked 
2  tablespoons  molasses 
5  teaspoons  salt 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
5  cups  water 

Rice  Bread 
8  cups  flour 

1  cup  rice,  uncooked 

2  tablespoons  corn  simp 
5  teaspoons  salt 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
5  cups  water 

(1)  To  prepare  the  substitute,  soak  beans  or  barley  overnight,  drain  off 
the  water,  measure  it,  and  add  sufficient  water  to  make  1  quart,  then  cook 
the  beans  or  barley  in  this  until  they  are  soft;  cook  the  cereal  in  1  quart  of 
*  Charles  Taylor. 


Potato  Bread 
8  cups  flour 

2  pounds,  or        quarts  potatoes, 
uncooked,  diced 

7  teaspoons  salt 

2  tablespoons  corn  sirup 
2  cakes  compressed  yeast 

4  cups  water 

Bean  Bread 

8  cups  flour 

1  cup  beans,  uncooked 

2  tablespoons  corn  sirup 

5  teaspoons  salt 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
5  cups  water 

Barley  Bread 

7  cups  flour 

1  cup  barley,  uncooked 

2  tablespoons  molasses 
5  teaspoons  salt 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast 
5  cups  water 

Breadcrumb  Bread 

8  cups  flour 

4  cups  breadcrumbs 

2  tablespoons  molasses 

5  teaspoons  salt 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast 

4  cups  water  (or  milk  and  water) 


504 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


the  water  called  for  in  the  recipe  and  the  potato  in  3  cups  until  it  is  soft; 
mash  the  potato;  grind  the  bread  in  a  chopper,  adding  3  cups  of  lukewarm 
water;  (2)  combine  the  hot  mush  or  "mashed  potato  or  breadcrumbs,  the 
salt,  and  the  sweetening,  stirring  the  mixture  often  enough  to  avoid  the 
formation  of  any  film,  until  it  has  cooled  to  blood  heat;  (3)  when  it  is  luke- 
warm, .add  the  yeast  which  has  been  softened  in  1  cup  of  water,  reducing 
the  yeast  one-half,  and  increasing  the  salt  one-fourth  if  the  bread  is  set 
overnight;  (4)  add  the  flour,  and  knead  the  dough  thoroughly,  using  as 
little  flour  on  the  board  as  possible;  (5)  let  the  dough  rise  for  33^  hours, 
or  until  it  has  doubled  in  bulk  at  the  approximate  temperature  of  75°  F.; 
(6)  work  it  down,  and  let  it  rise  again  for  13^  hours,  or  until  it  has  in- 
creased its  size  by  one-half;  (7)  mold  it,  place  it  in  pans,  and  let  it  rise 
until  it  has  almost  doubled  in  bulk;  (8)  bake  the  loaves  for  50  to  60  min- 
utes in  a  moderately  hot  oven,  or  at  a  temperature  of  360°  to  400°  F.; 
(9)  remove  the  bread  from  the  pans  at  once,  and  cool  it  quickly. 

On  account  of  the  reduced  amount  of  gluten  in  these  breads,  they  must 
be  molded  and  handled  with  great  care. 

Wheatless  yeast  breads.  * 

Quick  rising  seems  to  give  best  results  with  wheatless  yeast  breads. 
Therefore,  a  larger  proportion  of  yeast  is  used  than  is  necessary  when  the 
dough  is  allowed  to  rise  overnight. 

The  best  loaf  is  made  from  dough  which  is  so  soft  that  it  must  be  stirred, 
not  kneaded. 

Only  part  of  the  flour  should  be  added  at  the  beginning.  When  the 
sponge  has  risen  for  about  20  minutes,  it  should  be  beaten  or  stirred  thor- 
oughly; then  the  remaining  flour  should  be  added  and  the  dough  turned 
into  the  pan.  It  should  be  allowed  to  rise  in  the  pan  for  about  30  minutes, 
or  until  it  rounds  up  slightly.  These  doughs  never  double  in  bulk  in  the 
rising  as  do  wheat  doughs. 

Small  loaves  made  from  these  heavy  cereals  are  likely  to  have  a  better 
shape  and  texture  than  large  ones,  although  one  loaf  may  be  made  from 
the  recipes  given. 

Slow  baking  gives  the  best  results.  From  to  13^  hours  in  a  fairly 
slow  oven  is  the  time  recommended. 

Barley y  oat  and  rice  flour  bread  {2  small  loaves). 
21/2  cups  barley  flour  2  teaspoons  salt 

}/2  cup  rice  flour  1  tablespoon  corn  sirup 

l}/2  cups  ground  rolled  oats  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

1  cup  milk  3^  cup  lukewarm  water 

Soften  the  yeast  in  the  lukewarm  water.  Scald  the  milk,  and  add  the 
salt  and  sirup.  When  the  mixture  is  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast,  then  the 
barley  flour  and  rice  flour,  sifted.  Beat  the  dough  well,  and  allow  it  to 
rise  until  it  is  light.    Add  the  sifted  oat  flour,  and  turn  the  mixture  into 

*  Lucile  Brewer. 


YEAST  BREAD 


505 


greased  pans.  Allow  it  to  rise  for  20  or  30  minutes,  and  bake  it  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  from  1  to  13^  hours. 

Barley  and  rice  bread  (2  small  loaves), 
4  cups  barley  flour  1  tablespoon  corn  sirup 

1  cup  boiled  rice  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

1  cup  milk  3^  cup  lukewarm  water 

2  teaspoons  salt 

Soften  the  yeast  in  the  lukewarm  water.  Scald  the  milk,  and  add  the 
sirup  and  salt.   When  the  mixture  is  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast. 

SALT-RISING  BREAD 

An  old-fashioned  bread,  the  making  of  which  is  almost  a  lost 
art  to-day,  is  called  salt-rising  bread.  No  yeast  is  used.  Gas 
from  a  certain  type  of  bacteria  found  in  cornmeal  is  the  leaven- 
ing agent.  Dough  made  from  freshly  ground  cornmeal  rises 
much  more  rapidly  than  that  from  old  cornmeal;  in  fact,  failure 
generally  results  unless  fresh  cornmeal  is  used. 

The  bread  is  handled  in  the  same  way  as  yeast-raised  bread, 
except  that  the  entire  process  can  be  carried  on  at  a  somewhat 
higher  temperature  than  is  possible  with  yeast  bread. 

The  odor  of  salt-rising  bread  during  fermentation  and  proofing 
is  characteristic.  No  other  dough  is  like  it. 

Salt-rising  bread  is  finer  in  texture  than  yeast  bread,  and  some 
persons  believe  it  is  more  easily  digested. 

Recipe  for  salt-rising  bread  (3  loaves). 

(1)  In  the  evening  make  a  mush  of  2  tablespoons  of  cornmeal  and  about.  K 
cup  of  scalded  milk.  Keep  it  in  a  warm  place  overnight.  (2)  In  the  morning 
mix  together  1  cup  lukewarm  water,  3^  teaspoon  salt,  }4  teaspoon  soda,  13^ 
cups  flour,  cornmeal  mush.  (3)  Cover  the  mixture,  and  place  the  dish  in 
warm  water  until  the  mixture  is  light.  (4)  To  2  cups  lukewarm  water  add 
2  teaspoons  of  salt  and  3  cups  of  flour.  Add  to  this  the  cornmeal  leavening 
mixture.  Allow  the  mixture  to  rise  until  it  is  light.  Then  add  sufiicient 
flour  to  make  a  dough.  Knead  it  until  it  is  smooth,  make  it  into  loaves, 
place  it  in  tins,  and  allow  it  to  rise  until  it  is  double  in  bulk.  Bake  it 
according  to  the  general  directions. 


CHAPTER  XXV 


COOKING  OF  CEREALS 

By  Mary  F.  Henry 

Cereals  in  general  are  a  cheap  source  of  energy  but  there  are 
wide  differences  in  the  cost  of  the  various  cereals  themselves. 
Rolled  oats,  the  whole-wheat  grain,  and  cornmeal  are,  under 
ordinary  conditions,  the  cheapest  energy-yielding  foods.  The 
ready-to-eat  and  the  partly  cooked  cereals  are  from  two  to  ten 
times  as  expensive  as  the  raw  cereals.  Attention  given  to  the 
proper  cooking  of  the  raw  cereals  and  to  simple  variations  in 
serving  them  will,  therefore,  help  to  keep  the  food  bills  low, 
while  at  the  same  time  the  family  is  provided  with  a  nutritious 
and  appetizing  food. 

Proportion  of  cereal  and  water. 

No  rule  for  the  proportion  of  cereal  and  water  can  be  given 
that  will  apply  to  all  kinds  of  cereals,  or  that  will  give  a  con- 
sistency which  will  satisfy  every  taste.  The  kind  of  cereal, 
the  method  of  manufacture,  and  the  method  of  cooking  affect 
the  amount  of  water  that  should  be  used.  Cereal  cooked  in  a 
fireless  cooker  requires  less  water  than  that  cooked  in  a  double 
boiler  because  there  is  less  evaporation.  Cereal  cooked  in  a 
double  boiler  requires  less  water  than  that  cooked  directly  over 
the  fire,  for  the  same  reason.  The  table  here  given  suggests 
proportions  of  water  and  cereal  that  may  be  used.  Modifica- 
tion may  be  made  to  suit  the  taste. 

The  proportion  of  salt  should  be  3^  to  1  teaspoon  for  every 
cup  of  water. 

Time  required  for  cooking  cereals. 

Cereals  require  long,  slow  cooking  to  make  them  palatable 
and  digestible.    Just  as  the  various  cereals  call  for  different 

506 


COOKING  OF  CEREALS 


507 


proportions  of  water,  so  they  require  different  lengths  of  time 
for  cooking.  The  whole  grains  and  the  ground  grains  contain- 
ing large  amounts  of  cellulose,  such  as  whole-wheat,  oatmeal, 
or  Ralston's  breakfast  food,  require  a  longer  time  for  cooking 
than  the  grains  that  naturally  or  because  of  the  process  of  manu- 
facture contain  less  cellulose,  such  as  rice  or  cream  of  wheat. 
The  time  of  cooking  may  be  reduced  considerably  by  soaking 
the  cereal  for  several  hours,  or  even  as  long  as  overnight,  to 
soften  the  cellulose.  This  soaking  may  be  especially  desirable 
in  the  case  of  whole  cereals.  Since  the  cereal  in  this  way  absorbs 
a  considerable  amount  of  water,  an  equal  amount  should  be 
deducted  from  that  used  in  cooking  the  cereal. 

Utensils  for  cooking  cereals. 

A  fireless  cooker  is  particularly  well  adapted  for  cooking 
cereals,  since  it  gives  the  desirable  long,  slow  cooking  and  makes 
possible  a  saving  in  attention  and  fuel.  A  double  boiler  is  the 
next  most  convenient  utensil.  Cereals  may  be  cooked  directly 
over  the  fire  if  the  temperature  is  kept  low,  but  since  there  is  a 
tendency  to  shorten  the  time  of  cooking  because  of  the  attention 
required  to  prevent  burning,  this  method  is  in  general  not 
recommended.  Even  if  stirred,  cereal  cooked  in  this  way  is 
likely  to  stick  to  the  kettle  and  make  it  diflicult  to  wash. 

Directions  for  cooking  cereals  in  a  double  boiler. 

(1)  Measure  the  water,  and  bring  it  to  the  boiling  point  in  the  upper 
part  of  a  double  boiler;  (2)  when  the  water  is  boiUng  vigorously,  sprinkle 
the  dry  cereal  into  it  slowly  in  order  not  to  stop  the  boihng,  as  this  \\ill 
prevent  lumping;  (3)  stir  the  cereal  only  slightly  to  prevent  sticking  and 
allow  it  to  boil  from  5  to  10  minutes,  or  until  it  thickens;  (4)  cover  the 
container,  and  place  it  over  the  lower  part  of  the  double  boiler,  which  is 
filled  one-third  full  with  boihng  water;  (5)  cook  the  cereal  for  the  required 
length  of  time,  keeping  the  water  in  the  lower  part  of  the  double  boiler 
constantly  boiling. 

Directions  for  cooking  cereals  in  a  fireless  cooker, 
(1)  Cook  the  cereal  in  the  fireless  cooker  container  over  direct  heat  for 
5  or  10  minutes  according  to  the  directions  just  given  for  the  use  of  a 
double  boiler;  (2)  when  the  cereal  has  boiled  5  or  10  minutes,  cover  the 
container  and  place  it  as  quickly  as  possible  in  the  fireless  cooker  and 


508  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


allow  it  to  remain  overnight.  If  a  hot  soapstone  is  used,  4  or  5  hours* 
cooking  may  be  sufficient.  If  necessary,  reheat  the  cereal  over  direct 
heat  or  in  a  container  of  boiling  water  before  serving  it. 


TABLE  XXX.— Cooking  of  Cereals 


Kind  of  cereal 

Measure 
(cups) 

Amount  of 
water  ^ 
(cups) 

Over  direct 

heat 
(minutes) 

Double 
boiler 
(hours) 

7,. 

mg 

Fireless 

Amount 
after 

(cups) 

Pettijohn's  

2  to  2}4 

5  to  10 

3 

Overnight 

2  scant 

Rolled  oats  

2  to  23^ 

5  to  10 

3 

Overnight 

2 

Cream  of  wheat .  .  . 

4  to  5 

3  to  5 

1 

Overnight 

4  scant 

Farina  

4  to  5 

3  to  5 

1 

Overnight 

4  scant 

Cornmeal  

4 

5  to  10 

2  to  3 

Overnight 

4  scant 

Entire  grain  wheat. 

4 

5  to  10 

6  to  8 

Overnight 

33^ 

4 

5  to  10 

3 

Overnight 

4  scant 

Oatmeal  

4 

5  to  10 

6 

Overnight 

33^ 

Hominy  grits  

4 

5  to  10 

6  to  8 

Overnight 

33^  scant 

Samp  

4 

5  to  10 

5  to  6 

Overnight 

4 

Wheatena  

4 

5  to  10 

1  to  2 

Overnight 

4  scant 

Rice  

33^  to  5 

5  to  10 

3 

Overnight 

43^ 

1  If  the  fireless  cooker  is  used,  from  3^  to  cup  less  water  should  be  added  than  is 
given  in  this  table. 


Variations  in  cooking  and  serving  breakfast  cereals. 

Cereals  may  be  cooked  in  milk,  or  in  a  combination  of  milk 
and  water.  Slightly  more  milk  is  necessary  than  when  water 
alone  is  used.  The  use  of  milk  in  cooking  cereals  offers  a  way 
of  increasing  the  milk-content  of  a  meal  and  makes  the  dish 
more  nutritious.  Figs  or  raisins  may  be  chopped  fine^and  stirred 
in  a  few  minutes  before  serving.  Bananas,  berries,  or  other 
fruit  may  be  served  with  the  cereal.  Combinations  of  two  or 
more  kinds  of  cereals  are  good  for  variety. 

Uses  for  left-over  cereals. 

Left-over  cereals  may  be  served  in  various  ways.  The  cereal 
may  be  poured  into  individual  molds  and  served  as  pudding 
with  fruit  sauce  or  cream.  Dates,  figs,  or  other  fruit  may  be 
added  before  it  is  molded.  If  the  cereal  is  sufficiently  stiff, 
it  may  be  molded  in  a  loaf,  sliced,  browned  in  a  small  amount  of 
fat,  and  served  with  sirup  or  tomato  sauce.  Left-over  cereal 
may  be  used  for  a  part  of  the  flour  in  muffins,  pancakes,  or  other 
breads,  and  in  scalloped  dishes  or  croquettes. 


COOKING  OF  CEREALS 


509 


How  to  pop  corn^ 

For  good  results  in  popping,  the  main  requisites  are  good  corn 
and  a  good  hot  fire.  In  popping,  certain  precautions  may  be 
observed  to  good  advantage.  Too  much  pop-corn  should  not 
be  taken  at  one  time,  not  more  than  enough  barely  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  popper  one  kernel  deep.  The  popper  should  be 
held  high  enough  above  the  fire  or  heat  to  keep  from  burning 
the  kernels  or  scorching  them  too  quickly.  The  right  degree 
of  heat  for  best  results  in  popping  should  make  good  corn  begin 
to  pop  mV/2  minutes.  This  should  give  the  maximum  volume 
increase  in  popping.  If  it  begins  to  pop  in  less  time  or  if  a  large 
quantity  of  corn  is  put  into  the  popper,  it  will  not  pop  up  so 
crisp  and  flaky.  If  it  takes  much  longer  for  the  popping  to  be- 
gin, the  heat  is  probably  not  great  enough  or  the  pop-corn  is 
of  poor  quahty,  or  there  may  be  other  interfering  causes,  such 
as  drafts  of  cold  air. 

To  preserve  the  snowy  whiteness  of  the  popped  kernels,  the 
flame  must  be  kept  from  striking  them.  This  can  be  done  by 
placing  a  plate  of  iron  or  a  stove  lid  between  the  corn  and 
the  fire  if  a  wire  popper  is  used  or  by  using  a  pan  popper  if 
popping  directly  over  a  flame. 

If  the  pop-corn  is  in  first-class  condition  and  the  heat  properly 
applied,  1  pint  of  unpopped  corn  should  give  15  to  20  pints  of 
popped  corn. 

*  Hartley,  C.  P.,  and  Willier,  J.  G.  Farmers'  BuU.  553.  U.  S.  Dept.  of 
Agr. 


CHAPTER  XXVI 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY 

By  Lucile  Breweb 

Although  meat  is  not  a  necessity  in  the  diet  (page  410), 
the  estimate  is  that  in  the  United  States  about  one-third  of  the 
total  expenditure  of  money  for  food  is  for  meat.  This  country 
shows  the  highest  per  capita  consumption.  Doubtless  one  of  the 
reasons  for  this  large  consumption  is  that  meat  has  an  appetiz- 
ing flavor  and  is  easily  cooked,  especially  the  tender  cuts.  Amer- 
ican cooks  have  not  yet  acquired  the  skill  of  European  and 
Oriental  cooks  in  flavoring  foods,  nor  do  they,  under  ordinary 
conditions,  devote  sufficient  time  and  thought  to  the  prepara- 
tion of  meat-substitute  dishes.  However,  with  the  rising  cost 
of  meat,  more  attention  is  being  paid  to  the  tough,  and  conse- 
quently, cheaper,  cuts  and  to  the  complete  utilization  of  all 
meat  bought. 

SELECTION  OF  MEAT  BY  APPEARANCE 

Beef  should  be  firm  and  fine-grained  in  texture.  It  should 
have  a  bright  red  color  and  be  well  mottled  with  fat.  The 
fat  of  beef  should  be  firm  and  of  a  yellowish  color.  Suet 
should  be  dry  and  should  crumble  readily.  For  cuts  of  beef,  see 
Fig.  118. 

Veal  should  be  of  a  pinkish  color.  The  fat  should  be  firm  and 
white. 

Mutton  should  be  a  bright  pink  color  and  fine-grained.  The 
fat  of  mutton  should  be  hard  and  fiaky.  The  outside  skin 
should  come  off  easily.  For  cuts  of  mutton,  see  Fig.  119. 

Lamb. — The  bones  of  lamb  are  reddish  ip  color  while  those 
of  mutton  are  white. 

510 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY  511 


Pork. — The  skin  of  pork  should  be  white  and  clear.  The 
flesh  should  be  of  a  pinldsh  tint.  For  cuts  of  pork  see  Fig.  120. 


Fig.  118.— Cuts  of  beef.  Fig.  119.— Cuts  of  mutton. 


Poultry. — Chickens  should  have  soft  feet,  a  smooth  skin,  and 
soft  cartilage  at  the  end  of  the  breast  bone.  An  abundance  of 
pin  feathers  indicates  a  young  bird.    Long  hairs  indicate  age. 


512 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


The  feet  of  fowls  are  hard  and  dry,  with  coarse  scales.  The 
cartilage  at  the  end  of  the  breast  bone  has  become  ossified.  A 
good  turkey  should  be  plump;  its 
legs  should  be  smooth,  and  the  car- 
tilage at  the  end  of  the  breast  bone 
should  be  soft  and  pliable.  (Page 
524). 

GENERAL  RULES  FOR  COOKING 

Meat  is  cooked  to  soften  connect- 
ive tissue,  to  develop  flavor,  to  im- 
prove appearance,  and  to  destroy 
bacteria  or  other  organisms. 

The  cuts  of  meat  may  be  divided 
into  two  classes,  the  tough  and  the 
tender.  Although  the  tough  cuts 
are  as  nutritious  as  the  tender  and 
are  cheaper,  more  skill  and  ingenuity 
are  required  to  make  them  palatable. 

Both  nutritive  material  and  flavor 
are  retained  in  meat  by  searing  over 
the  surface  at  the  beginning  of  the 
cooking  period.  This  may  be  done 
by  plunging  it  into  boiling  water  or 
hot  fat,  or  by  placing  it  in  a  hot  oven 
or  over  an  open  fire  as  in  broiling, 
thus  using  direct  heat. 

Tender  cuts. 

Only  the  tender  cuts  should  be 
cooked  with  dry  heat.  After  the 
meat  has  been  quickly  seared  with 
intense  heat  to  retain  the  juices,  the 
temperature  should  be  lowered  dur- 
FiG.  I20.-Cutsofpork.     .^^         remainder  of  the  cooking. 

Even  the  tenderest  cuts  of  meat  may  be  toughened  by  cooking 
at  too  high  a  temperature.  The  tender  cuts  are  fine  grained 
and  require  less  time  for  cooking  than  do  the  tough  cuts. 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY 


513 


Broiling  and  roasting,  which  develop  a  fine  flavor,  can  be 
used  only  for  tender  cuts.  The  best  cuts  for  broiling  are  porter- 
house, sirloin,  cross  cut  of  rump  steak,  and  the  second  and  third 
cuts  from  the  top  of  the  round.  Porterhouse  and  sirloin  steaks 
are  the  most  expensive  because  of  the  loss  of  bone  and  fat. 
Round  steaks  are  juicy,  but  they  have  a  coarser  fiber  and  are 
not  so  tender  as  porterhouse  and  sirloin. 

Steaks  should  be  cut  at  least  one  inch  thick;  they  may  be  as 
thick  as  two  or  three  inches. 

Most  of  the  fat  on  steaks  should  be  tried  out,  clarified,  and 
used  for  shortening. 

The  best  cuts  for  roasting  are  the  middle  of  the  sirloin,  the 
back  of  the  rump,  and  the  first  three  ribs.  The  tip  of  the  sir- 
loin and  the  back  of  the  rump  make  large  roasts  that  are  more 
economical  than  the  sirloin.  Rib  roasts  contain  more  fat 
and  are  somewhat  cheaper  than  other  roasts. 

Tough  cuts. 

The  tough  cuts  are  the  ones  containing  muscles  which  the 
animal  has  used  most  actively  and  include  the  shin,  knuckle, 
and  round  of  the  leg,  the  neck,  and  the  shoulder. 

Methods  of  making  tough  meats  tender  are  chopping,  adding 
fat,  marinating  with  oil  and  vinegar,  long  slow  cooking  in  moist 
heat  at  a  low  temperature,  and  breaking  the  fibers  by  pounding 
them  with  a  sharp  instrument.  Tough  cuts  of  meat  require 
long,  slow  cooking  to  be  made  tender  and  palatable.  Tough 
ends  of  the  tender  cuts,  such  as  porterhouse  steak,  should  be 
cut  off  and  specially  cooked  in  such  a  way  that  they  can  be 
utilized,  instead  of  being  cooked  in  the  same  way  as  the  tender 
part  and  then  discarded  because  of  their  toughness.  If  it  is 
desired  to  extract  some  of  the  nutritive  material  and  flavor  for 
soup,  sauce,  or  gravy,  the  meat  should  be  put  into  cold  water  and 
heated  slowly.  Tough  cuts  that  are  to  be  used  for  stew  may  be 
cut  in  small  pieces  and  browned  before  the  long,  slow  cooking, 
if  this  browned  flavor  is  liked.  Meat  cooked  for  a  stew  may  be 
drained,  rolled  in  egg  and  buttered  crumbs,  and  browned  for 
variety.  The  broth  may  be  thickened  and  served  as  gravy. 


514 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Smiss  steak 

IJ/^  pounds  round  steak, 

to  2  inches  thick 
1  small  onion 


3^-1  cup  flour 
3  slices  bacon 
Salt  and  pepper 


lev 


Pound  the  flour  into  both  sides  of  the  piece  of  steak.  Cook  the  bacon 
and  sliced  onion  until  brown.  Add  the  meat,  brown  each  side,  and  add 
water  or  tomato  juice  barely  to  cover  the  steak.  Cover  and  simmer  it 
on  the  stove  or  place  it  in  the  oven.  When  it  is  half  done,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper. 


Soups  may  be  classified  as  follows:  Soups  with  stock,  as  bouil- 
lon, brown  stock,  white  stock,  consomme,  lamb  stock;  soups 
without  stock,  as  cream  soups,  purees,  bisques;  and  chowders,  ^.j 
Only  soups  with  stock  will  be  considered  here.    Cream  soups  po 
have  white  sauce  as  a  basis  (page  552).    Since  the  purpose  in  ,  l^f 
making  soup  is  to  draw  out  as  much  food  substance  and  flavor- 
ing  material  as  possible,  the  bones  or  meat  should  be  placed  in 
cold  water  and  should  be  heated  slowly. 

Bones  are  likely  to  be  better  utiUzed  if  a  receptacle  is  kept  for 
soup  materials  only;  then  every  few  days  the  soup  kettle  may 
be  placed  on  the  stove.    If  the  soup  kettle  is  always  kept  on 
the  stove  and  especially  if  the  amount  of  material  is  large,  as  in 
the  case  of  hotel  soup  kettles,  there  is  danger  of  food  poisoning 
because  the  repeated  heating  and  cooHng  of  the  meat  and  broth 
furnishes  excellent  conditions  for  the  growth  of  certain  harmful 
microorganisms.    If  sparingly  used,  fresh  pork  and  ham  bones  k 
.  make  good  additions  to  soup.    If  there  is  a  small  amount  of  j^f 
soup  stock  on  hand,  it  may  be  used  with  the  water  from  boiled  J 
potatoes,  rice,  celery,  and  the  like,  to  make  a  delicious  soup. 
Soup  stock  may  be  used  in  white  sauce  or  brown  sauce  to  im-  (] 
prove  the  flavor. 

If  clear  soup  is  wished,  only  bones  should  be  used,  because 
meat  would  have  to  be  strained  out  and  would  probably  be 
wasted.  Meat  that  has  been  used  for  making  soup  has  lost  its 
flavor  but  not  its  nutritive  qualities;  consequently,  if  a  house- 
keeper wishes  to  be  thrifty,  she  will  boil  the  soup  meat  for  a 
shorter  time,  or  until  it  is  tender,  and  serve  it  with  the  soup. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  SOUP-MAKING 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY  515 

A  soup  made  in  this  way  with  the  addition  of  rice,  pearl  bar- 
ley, macaroni,  or  vegetables  makes  an  appetizing  luncheon 
dish. 


Bouillon 

4  pounds  of  meat  without  bone 
4  pints  cold  water 
teaspoons  salt 
10-12  peppercorns 
4  cloves 

1  cup  canned  tomato,  if  desired 


teaspoon  pepper 
3^  teaspoon  sweet  herbs 
Bay  leaf 

13^  tablespoons  each  of  carrot, 
onion,  celery 


To  make  bouillon :  (1 )  Use  a  kettle  with  a  tight-fitting  cover  to  keep  in  the 
flavors;  (2)  wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth;  (3)  trim  off  undesirable  por- 
tions; (4)  cut  in  small  pieces;  (5)  place  the  meat  in  the  kettle;  (6)  cover  it 
with  cold  water  and  allow  it  to  stand  3^  hour;  (7)  bring  it  to  the  simmering 
point,  180°  F.,  and  cook  it  for  5  or  6  hours,  never  allowing  the  soup  to 
boil;  (8)  add  the  vegetables  and  seasonings  1  hour  before  serving;  (9) 
strain  off  the  liquid  and  set  it  away  uncovered  to  cool. 


Brown  soup  stock 

6  pounds  shin  of  beef 

3  quarts  cold  water 

3/^  teaspoon  peppercorns 

6  cloves 

3^  bay  leaf 

3  sprigs  thyme 


1  sprig  marjoram 
3  sprigs  parsley 
Carrots 
Turnips 
Onion 
Celery 
1  tablespoon  salt 


3^2  cup  of  each  cut 
in  dice 


To  make  brown  soup  stock:  (1)  Wipe  the  beef;  (2)  cut  the  lean  meat  in 
cubes;  (3)  brown  one-third  of  it  in  a  frying  pan  in  marrow  from  the  marrow 
bones;  (4)  put  the  remaining  two-thirds  with  the  bone  and  fat  in  the  soup 
kettle;  (5)  let  it  stand  for  30  minutes;  (6)  add  the  browned  meat,  and  heat 
it  gradually  to  the  boiling  point;  (7)  remove  the  scum;  (8)  cover  the 
kettle  and  cook  the  meat  slowly  for  6  hours;  (9)  add  the  vegetables  1  hour 
before  it  is  done;  (10)  strain  the  stock;  (11)  cool  it  as  quickly  as  possible; 
(12)  clarify  it. 


White  soup  stock 

4  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal 

1  pound  lean  beef 

2  quarts  boiling  water 
6  slices  carrot 

1  onion 

Follow  the  directions  for  bouillon. 


1  large  stalk  celery 

^2  teaspoon  peppercorns 
3^  bay  leaf 

2  sprigs  thyme 
2  cloves 


516  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


TABLE  XXXI —Meats  for  Soup  and  Broth 


Meat 

Weight  in  pounds 

Shin  soup  bones .  

1-4 

Hind  shank  soup  bones  

1-5 

Knuckle  soup  bone  

3-7 

Oxtail  

1-2 

1—3 

Beef  shoulder  clod  

1-2 

Beef  round  

1-2 

Shoulder  of  mutton  

1-2 

Neck  of  mutton  

1-2 

Shanks  of  mutton  

1-1^ 

CAKE  OF  MEAT 

Meat  should  be  removed  from  the  wrapping  paper  as  soon 
as  it  comes  from  the  market,  since  the  paper  absorbs  some  of  the 
juices. 

Before  meat  is  cooked,  it  should  be  wiped  with  a  cloth  wrung 
out  of  cold  water.  It  should  never  be  allowed  to  stand  in  a  pan 
of  cold  water,  since  the  juices  are  in  this  way  drawn  out. 

Meat  must  be  kept  cool  in  a  refrigerator,  a  cool  cellar,  a 
spring-house  or  a  well.  It  must  also  be  carefully  protected 
from  flies. 

Since  broth  offers  excellent  conditions  for  the  growth  of  bac- 
teria, it  should  be  drained  off  meat  that  is  to  be  kept  for  any 
length  of  time  before  being  served. 

If  conditions  for  keeping  meat  are  very  unfavorable,  it  may 
be  dipped  into  a  large  quantity  of  boiling  water.  This  does  not 
seriously  affect  its  flavor,  and  it  tends  to  prevent  the  meat  from 
spoiling.  Veal  and  pork  may  be  partly  cooked  before  being 
stored. 

When  canned  meats  are  opened,  they  spoil  more  quickly 
perhaps  than  fresh  meats;  therefore,  they  should  be  consumed 
with  as  little  delay  as  possible.  Under  no  circumstances  should 
they  be  left  in  a  tin  can  after  it  is  opened.  I 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY 


517 


For  Slow  CooKiNq 

Weight 
(pounds) 

Name  of  cut 

For  boiling 
Shoulder  clod 
Rib  ends 
Cross  ribs 
Brisket 

Corned  rump,  flank,  plate, 

or  brisket 
Fresh  tongue 
Smoked  tongue 
For  stewing 
Plate 
Flank 

Drop  tenderloin 
Beef  skirts 
Neck 
Shin 

For  Moderately  Quick  Cooking 

Weight 
(pounds) 

4-12 

4-12 

4-8 

4-10 

4-12 

2-  G 

3-  G 

3-12 
3-8 

Name  of  cut 

Prime  ribs  (first  cut) 
Prime  ribs  (last  cut) 
Shoulder  block  roast 
Chuck  rib  roast 
Rump  roast 

Tenderloin  fillet 
Veal  loin 

Leg  of  veal 
Shoulder  of  veal 

For  Quick  Cooking 

Weight 
(pounds) 

Name  of  cut 

Porterhouse  steak 
Club  steak 
Sirloin  steak 
Round  steak 
Top  round  steak 

Chuck  roast 
Flank  stsak 

Veal  steak 
Veal  chops 
Veal  cutlets 

618 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


^      -i  -5 


9  5 


1  §  §  a 

1  ^  ^  ^  ' 

°    ^  ^  ^  ^  ^  ■ 


>      "3       "2  M 


(N  CO  CO  ' 


I  05  CO  CD 
<  CO  CO  CO 


1  Y  ^  °P  °P 
«  (N  CO  \P1  uo  1 


^bcgtJoojhC.So 
0<uSo^aaiOj:3 


bc  o  o  a  ^ 
1-:^  i-H     U  W 


'"'  ^  i^-iS. 


^      ^      a  a  a 

Ph       fi,  ^  ^ 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY 


519 


KEEPING  MEAT  * 

After  slaughtering,  the  meat  undergoes  several  changes. 
Immediately  after  being  killed,  the  flesh,  especially  in  young 
and  well-nourished  animals,  is  juicy  and  tender.  On  account 
of  the  clotting  of  the  myosin,  after  a  short  time  rigor  mortis 
ensues  and  the  meat  becomes  stiff  and  hard.  In  the  third  stage 
to  which  the  meat  soon  passes,  it  becomes  again  soft  and  tender, 
owing  in  part  to  the  action  of  lactic  acid  on  the  sarcolemma  and 
connective  tissue.  This  process  should  not,  however,  be  al- 
lowed to  go  too  far,  or  the  meat  will  become  ^^high''  and  have 
a  disagreeable  odor  and  flavor. 

This  development  of  the  lactic  acid  rendering  the  meat  tender, 
is  called  '^ripening''  of  the  meat.  Refrigeration  retards  this 
process,  hence  meats  can  be  kept  fresh  for  a  considerable  time 
at  a  low  temperature  (below  40°  F.).  The  experiments  by  P.  F. 
Trowbridge, t  show  that  as  long  as  the  amount  of  lactic  acid 
continues  to  increase,  the  meat  appears  to  be  improving  in 
quaUty.  At  a  certain  stage,  however,  basic  bodies  begin  to 
separate,  which  neutrahze  the  lactic  acid  and  thus  cause  a  de- 
crease in  the  amount  of  this  free  acid.  The  meat  is  still  edible 
after  this  decrease  has  begun,  but  whenever  enough  basic 
bodies  are  liberated  to  neutralize  the  lactic  acid,  the  meat  has 
then  reached  a  stage  of  incipient  putrefaction  and  is  no  longer 
fit  for  food. 

Game  is  often  allowed  to  ''hang''  until  the  changes  of  de- 
composition are  well  marked  and  in  this  condition  it  is  highly 
relished  by  epicures. 

USE  OF  MARKET  TRIMMINGS  AND  MEAT  FAT  IN  COOKING  { 

Market  trimmings  vary  with  the  customs  of  the  locality  and 
the  character  of  the  cuts  bought,  but  it  is  certain  that  a  saving 
can  be  made  if  the  trimmings  are  brought  home  and  used  in 
cooking  or  for  other  purposes. 

*  Bailey,  E.  H.  S.   The  Source,  Chemistry  and  Use  of  Food  Products, 
t  Missouri  Agr.  Exp.  St  a. 

i  Usher,  Susannah.  Waste  of  Meat  in  the  Home.  Part  II.  Cornell 
Reading-Course  for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  109. 


520  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


After  being  tried  out  and  clarified,  all  sweet  suet  from  market 
and  home  trimmings  of  beef  and  mutton,  drippings  from  roasts, 
bacon  fat,  fresh  pork  fat,  and  sausage  fat  can  be  combined  or 
used  singly  in  cooking.  For  frying  croquettes,  breaded  chops, 
French  fried  potatoes,  and  the  like,  a  mixture  of  various  fats, 
such  as  beef,  mutton,  and  bacon,  is  excellent.  The  cracklings 
from  tried-out  suet  are  good  for  shortening  in  corn  cakes  and 
suet  puddings. 

In  buying  suet  separately,  it  should  be  remembered  that 
fats  from  all  parts  of  the  animal  do  not  melt  at  the  same  tem- 
perature. For  example,  cod  suet  melts  at  a  lower  temperature 
and  is,  therefore,  a  softer  fat  than  is  kidney  sueto  For  some 
kinds  of  cooking  the  softer  fat  is  much  to  be  preferred. 

In  general,  fats  are  almost  completely  digested,  although  ex- 
periments indicate  that  fats  with  low  melting  points,  such  as 
butter  and  olive  oil,  are  digested  more  completely  than  those 
with  high  melting  points,  such  as  mutton  fat  and  beef  fat. 

Temperature  of  cooking. 

More  important,  however,  than  the  kind  of  fat  eaten,  is  the 
method  of  treatment  of  fat  in  the  process  of  cooking.  Fat  foods 
that  are  badly  cooked  or  other  foods  that  are  poorly  cooked  in 
fat  are  often  unsuspected  sources  of  digestive  troubles.  Over- 
heating fat,  that  is,  heating  it  to  the  point  where  blue  smoke 
is  visible,  causes  decomposition  with  the  formation  of  substances  j 
that  are  irritating  to  the  digestive  tract.  It  is  suggested  that 
the  absorption  of  certain  of  these  materials  into  the  blood  stream 
may  cause  disturbances  more  far-reaching  than  is  yet  known. 

On  the  other  hand,  cooking  food  in  fat  at  too  low  a  tempera- 
ture is  not  without  ill  effects,  as  it  causes  the  fat  to  be  soaked 
up  and  the  food  to  be  covered  with  layers  of  fat;  this  retards 
the  action  of  the  digestive  juices  and  causes  delay  in  the  reason- 
ably prompt  passage  of  food  from  the  stomach. 

Flavor  and  hardness. 

Two  objections  are  usually  offered  to  the  utilization  in  cook- 
ing processes  of  the  harder  fats,  such  as  beef  and  mutton, 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY 


521 


namely,  the  flavor  and  the  hardness.  The  hardness  may  be 
overcome  by  mixing  them  with  softer  fats,  such  as  lard  and  cot- 
tonseed oil.  The  flavor  may  be  modified  by  careful  rendering 
and  by  disguising  it  as  in  savory  fat. 

Various  combinations  of  fats  may  be  used;  for  example,  one 
part  of  bacon  fat  and  two  parts  of  mutton  fat,  one  part  of  lard 
or  fresh  pork  drippings  and  two  parts  of  mutton  fat,  one  part 
of  sausage  fat  and  two  parts  of  mutton  fat.  Man}^  housekeepers 
say  that  they  do  not  have  time  to  mix  the  fats  together  in  ac- 
curate proportions;  they  therefore  mix  their  hard  and  soft, 
fats  in  any  amounts  that  happen  to  be  at  hand,  generally  with 
good  results.  Of  course,  such  a  mixture  is  softer  than  either 
mutton  or  beef  fat  alone. 

If  the  harder  fats  are  used  for  shortening,  they  must  be  kept 
in  a  warm  place  for  some  time  before  they  are  used,  in  order 
that  they  may  become  soft;  otherwise,  extra  time  and  strength 
are  expended  in  order  to  work  them  into  the  flour  for  biscuits 
and  pastry  and  to  cream  the  shortening  and  sugar  for  cake. 
Under  any  circumstances,  it  seems  a  little  more  difficult  to  work 
them  into  the  flour  than  is  the  case  with  butter.  In  ginger 
cookies  and  gingerbread,  where  the  shortening  is  melted  before 
it  is  added,  this  difficulty  is  not  apparent. 

If  other  fats  are  substituted  for  butter,  salt  must  be  added  to 
take  the  place  of  the  salt  in  the  butter. 

Mutton  fat. 

Mutton  fat  combined  with  the  softer  fats  is  most  satisfactory 
for  all  kinds  of  biscuits,  muffins,  and  cakes  that  are  to  be  served 
hot,  or  at  least  on  the  same  day  on  which  they  are  baked. 
The  furry ^'  feefing  in  the  mouth  that  comes  from  eating 
hard  fats  is  less  noticeable  if  the  products  are  eaten  with  hot 
drinks  or  fruit  sauces.  Lemon  juice  added  for  part  of  the  liquid 
in  cakes  also  lessens  this    furry''  feeling. 

Mutton  fat  is  excellent  in  all  cases  in  which  a  small  amount 
of  shortening  is  used  and  when  spices  and  molasses  help  to 
mask  the  mutton  flavor.  In  cakes  made  with  mutton  fat, 
vanilla  and  chocolate  are  successful  flavors.   Cakes  do  not  have 


522 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


so  fine  a  grain  and  do  not  keep  so  well  when  they  are  made  with 
mutton  fat  as  when  they  are  made  with  butter. 

Certainly  mutton  fat  can  be  utilized  to  a  greater  extent  than 
is  generally  thought.  If  handled  skillfully  in  the  preparation, 
the  products  are  not  only  satisfactory  but  excellent. 

Tests  for  the  use  of  mutton  fat  gave  the  following  results :  * 
It  would  make  for  economy  if  mutton  fat  were  more  com- 
monly used  in  the  kitchen.  For  this  reason,  tests  were  made  of 
different  ways  of  modifying  the  flavor  so  that  the  mutton  fat 
might  be  more  generally  used  in  cooking.  The  most  satisfac- 
tory method  found  was  to  mix  some  leaf  lard  with  the  suet  and 
render  with  milk.  The  suet  and  leaf  lard  mixture  was  finely 
divided  by  passing  it  through  a  meat  grinder,  and  was  heated  in 
a  double  boiler  with  about  one-half  of  its  weight  of  whole  milk. 
The  fat  was  quickly  released  from  the  tissues,  and,  when  al- 
lowed to  cool,  formed  a  cake  on  the  surface  of  the  liquid,  which 
was  easily  removed.  Mutton  suet  and  leaf  lard,  fresh  and  of 
good  quality,  Hried  out^  in  this  way,  possessed  little,  if  any, 
of  the  characteristic  mutton  odor  and  flavor.  The  best  results 
were  obtained  with  a  mixture  of  two  parts  of  mutton  suet  and 
one  of  leaf  lard,  finely  ground,  rendered  with  whole  milk  in  pro- 
portion of  one-half  pint  to  two  pounds  of  the  mixed  mutton  and 
lard.  This  fat  had  an  exceptionally  good  odor  and  flavor,  which 
it  retained  when  kept  for  weeks  in  an  ordinary  refrigerator. 
It  was  also  of  good  color  and  texture,  being  softer  than  the  mut- 
ton fat  alone,  owing  to  the  milk  fat  and  lard  which  it  contained. 
If  such  fats  are  rendered  in  an  open  kettle,  a  moderate  heat 
is  desirable,  since  they  ^burn  out '  very  readily.  Rendering  in  a 
double  boiler  is  much  more  convenient.  In  numerous  tests, 
such  fat  proved  satisfactory  either  alone  or  with  a  little  butter 
for  use  in  cooking  vegetables  and  for  other  purposes." 

Clarified  fat. 

Various  methods  are  used  to  clarify  fat.  A  pinch  of  baking 
soda  whitens  the  fat  and  also  helps  to  keep  it  sweet.  Baking 

*Langworthy,  C.  F.,  and  Hunt,  Caroline  L.  Mutton  and  its  Value  in 
the  Diet.   Farmers'  Bull.  526,  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agr. 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY 


523 


soda  is  used  to  whiten  lard  in  the  proportion  of  about  13^  ounces 
to  100  pounds  of  lard.  It  is  stirred  into  the  hot  lard  after  the 
cracklings  are  strained  out. 

The  following  directions  may  be  found  useful  in  clarifying  fat:* 
Excepting  when  the  purpose  of  clarifying  fat  is  to  remove 
flavors,  a  good  method  to  follow  is  to  pour  boiling  water  over  the 
fat,  to  boil  thoroughly,  and  then  to  set  it  away  to  cool.  The 
cold  fat  may  be  removed  in  a  solid  cake  and  any  impurities 
clinging  to  it  may  be  scraped  off,  as  they  will  be  found  at  the 
bottom  of  the  layer.  By  repeating  this  process  two  or  three 
times  a  cake  of  clean,  white  fat  may  be  obtained.'^ 

'^A  slight  burned  taste  or  similar  objectionable  flavors  often 
can  be  removed  from  fat  by  means  of  potatoes.  After  melting 
the  fat,  put  into  it  thick  shces  of  raw  potatoes;  heat  gradually. 
When  the  fat  ceases  to  bubble  and  the  potatoes  are  brown, 
strain  through  a  cloth  placed  in  a  wire  strainer.'^ 

Savory  fat. '\ 

'^Savory  fat  may  be  easily  prepared.  For  each  pound  of  the 
carefully  rendered  mutton  fat,  allow  an  onion,  a  sour  apple, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  thyme  or  mixed  herbs  tied  up  in  a 
small  piece  of  cloth.  Cook  these  in  the  fat,  at  a  low  temperature 
in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the  stove,  until  the  onion  and  apple 
are  thoroughly  browned.  Then  strain  off  the  fat,  which  will  be 
found  well  seasoned  and  may  be  used  in  place  of  butter  or  other 
savory  fat  for  seasoning  or  for  warming  of  potatoes,  cooking 
vegetables,  and  in  other  ways.  Winter  or  Hubbard  squash 
cooked  in  the  mutton  fat  until  it  is  brown  was  also  found  in  this 
laboratory  to  impart  a  savory  flavor.  The  savoriness  produced 
by  the  use  of  fruits  and  vegetables  in  this  way  seems  to  be  due 
to  the  solution  in  the  fat  of  specific  flavoring  bodies  present  in 
the  fruits,  vegetables,  or  herbs,  and  to  the  fat  taking  up  some 
of  the  caramelized  carbohydrate  formed  when  the  fruit  or  vege- 
table browns." 

*  Langworthy,  C.  F.,  and  Hunt,  Caroline  L.   Economical  Use  of  Meat 
in  the  Home.   Farmers'  Bull.  391,  U.  S.  Dept.  Agr. 
t  Farmers'  Bull.  526. 


524 


'A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


CHICKENS  AND  FOWLS  (FRANCES  VINTON  WARD) 

Chickens  have  soft,  smooth  legs  and  feet,  a  soft  flexible 
breast  bone,  pin  feathers,  few  hairs,  a  tender  skin,  and  they  are 
lean. 

Fowls  have  hard  scaly  feet,  a  hard  breast  bone,  long  hairs, 
a  tough,  thick  skin,  and  the  intestines  are  surrounded  by  fat. 

Dressing  and  cleaning  poultry. 

Poultry  must  be  prepared  for  cooking  by  careful  cleaning 
and  dressing.  The  following  directions  may  be  carried  out: 

Pick  out  all  stray  pin  feathers.  Singe  the  bird  by  holding  it  over  a 
flame  until  the  hairs  are  burned  off.  Slip  the  point  of  the  wings  behind 
the  shoulder  blades,  to  give  steadiness  to  the  body  while  working  with  it. 
Cut  off  the  head,  push  back  the  skin,  and  cut  the  neck  close  to  the  body. 
Through  the  neck  opening,  loosen  the  crop  from  the  skin  which  surrounds 
it.  If  the  crop  is  full,,  lift  it  and  cut  the  tube  connecting  it  with  the  giz- 
zard, reaching  down  between  the  breast  bones  as  far  as  possible.  An  empty 
crop,  loosened  from  the  breast  skin,  may  be  drawn  out  with  the  intestines. 
If  dressing  a  fowl,  cut  a  lengthwise  slit  about  one  inch  long  in  the  skin  of 
the  leg  just  below  the  leg  joint.  Insert  a  skewer,  and  pick  up  the  white 
tendons,  one  at  a  time,  pulling  each  away  from  the  hip  toward  the  foot 
until  it  breaks  loose.  When  all  are  loosened,  cut  around  the  leg  through 
the  skin  just  below  the  joint,  bend  the  joint  backward  till  it  breaks,  and 
cut  through  the  cords  to  remove  the  leg.  Cut  a  lengthwise  sht  through 
the  skin  and  fat  at  the  rear  just  below  the  breast  bone  and  toward  the 
vent.  Cut  around  the  vent.  With  the  fowl  lying  on  its  back,  insert  the 
hand  in  this  opening,  passing  it  over  the  intestines,  between  them  and 
the  breast  bone.  Press  the  hand  forward  until  the  heart  can  be  felt, 
curving  the  fingers  around  the  internal  organs  including  the  heart;  pull 
strongly,  holding  the  fowl  in  place  with  the  other  hand,  until  the  organs 
are  drawn  out.  Slip  the  heart  from  its  sack,  and  cut  it  free  from  its  blood 
vessels.  Cut  the  intestine  close  to  the  gizzard.  Cut  across  the  white 
tendon  on  one  side  of  this,  being  very  careful  not  to  cut  the  inner  lining, 
and  turn  the  outer  muscular  coat  inside  out,  away  from  the  inner  coat  with 
its  contents  intact.  With  a  sharp  knife  peel  off  the  interlining,  and  cut 
away  the  outer  tendons.  Cut  away  the  liver  in  two  lobes,  discarding  the 
part  discolored  by  the  gall  bladder.  Be  careful  not  to  cut  the  latter. 
Should  this  occur,  every  part  of  the  meat  which  has  been  touched  by  it 
must  be  cut  away,  after  carefully  washing  the  knife  which  cut  it.  The 
bitter  taste  is  very  persistent.  Find  the  lungs,  attached  to  the  ribs  on  the 
upper  side  of  the  body  near  the  head,  and  remove  them  carefully.  A  small 
amount  left  will  cause  discoloration  and  give  an  unpleasant  flavor.  Re- 


MEAT  AND  POULTRY 


525 


move  the  very  dark  glands  lying  in  hollows  close  to  the  backbone  near 
the  tail.   Wipe  the  bird  thoroughly,  inside  and  out. 

Cooking  poultry. 

Chicken  may  be  stuffed  and  roasted,  but  fowl  should  be 
stewed  slowly  for  a  long  time,  preferably  in  a  fireless  cooker. 

To  roast  chicken. — Make  a  stuffing  of  dried  breadcrumbs,  moistened 
with  as  much  milk  as  it  will  absorb  and  seasoned  as  desired  with  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  3^  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  and  sage  or  poultry 
seasoning  to  each  cup  of  crumbs.  Fill  the  crop  region  about  two-thirds 
full,  and  tie  the  end  of  the  skin  of  the  neck.  Fill  the  body  region  about 
two-thirds  full,  and  fasten  the  opening  by  sticking  tooth  picks  across  it 
through  both  flaps  of  the  skin,  then  lacing  string  across  the  tooth  picks. 
Insert  two  long  skewers  through  the  chicken,  one  just  beneath  the  legs, 
the  other  through  the  wings  (now  released  from  their  position  behind  the 
shoulder  blades)  and  the  breast.  Tie  the  legs  together,  and  draw  them 
down  by  means  of  the  string  to  the  tail,  continuing  the  string  to  fasten 
around  the  skewers  and  the  legs.  Cross  the  strings  over  the  back,  and 
wind  them  around  the  skewers  under  the  wings,  tying  them  together  over 
the  back.  Note  that  there  is  no  string  across  the  breast,  and  a  fowl  served 
breast  side  up,  with  the  string  removed,  shows  no  mark  of  the  string. 
Place  the  chicken  in  a  covered  roasting  pan  with  a  little  water  in  the  bot- 
tom. If  the  chicken  is  not  very  fat,  butter  or  oil  the  skin,  sprinkle  it  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  flour,  and  bake  it  from  1  to  13^  hours  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven.  Wash  the  breast,  gizzard,  neck,  and  liver.  Stew  them  in  suffi- 
cient water  to  cover  them,  adding  the  liver  after  cooking  the  others  an 
hour. 

To  stew  chicken. — If  chicken  is  to  be  cut  up  before  being  cooked,  as  in 
stewing,  the  dressing  is  much  simplified.  After  cutting  the  lengthwise 
slit  into  the  abdominal  cavity,  bend  out  the  leg  and  cut  the  skin  between 
it  and  the  body,  foUowing  the  outUne  of  the  thigh  up  to  the  hip  bone. 
The  leg  will  separate  from  the  body  and  when  bent  far  enough  back,  the 
hip  joint  will  break  and  the  leg  may  be  cut  free.  When  both  legs  have 
been  removed,  lay  them  skin  down  and  feel  for  the  joint  between  the  thigh 
and  ''drum  stick."  Cut  across  this  through  the  tendon  and  break  the 
joint,  separating  the  two  parts  by  cutting  through  the  flesh.  Cut  from  the 
mid  point  of  the  slit  in  the  abdomen  through  the  thin  muscle  which  under- 
lay the  hip  straight  to  the  hip  joint.  Bend  back  the  back  of  the  chicken, 
breaking  the  backbone  near  this  point.  The  organs  may  now  easfly  be 
removed  as  before.  Lift  the  wing,  and  cut  from  the  under  side  up,  dis- 
locating the  bone  to  find  the  joint.  Note  the  cartilaginous  joints  in  the 
ribs  at  each  side,  and  cut  through  these  regions  to  the  shoulder,  to  separate 
the  back  from  the  breast,  dislocating  the  shoulder  blade  from  the  breast 
bone  at  the  forward  end  and  cutting  the  two  apart.    Remove  the  lungs 


626 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


and  glands.  Wipe  the  fowl  as  before.  Cook  the  giblets  separately.  Add 
enough  boiling  water  just  to  cover  the  fowl,  simmer  it  15  minutes,  add  1 
tablespoon  of  salt,  and  place  it  in  a  fireless  cooker  for  5  or  6  hours.  Re- 
move it  and  if  not  yet  tender,  reheat  it  and  cook  it  again.  To  serve  meat 
cooked  in  this  way,  thicken  the  gravy  and  make  dumplings,  serving  the 
meat  in  the  gravy;  or  remove  the  meat,  saute  it,  and  serve  the  thickened 
gravy  separately.  The  meat  may  be  removed  from  the  bones  and  skin 
and  ground.  The  liquor  may  be  cleared,  well  seasoned,  and  thickened 
with  gelatin,  using  1  tablespoon  of  gelatin  to  1  pint  of  liquor.  Stir  in  the 
meat  as  the  gelatin  begins  to  thicken,  and  serve  it  in  slices,  cold. 


CHAPTER  XXVII 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS 

By  Winifred  Moses 

Fish  is  an  excellent  animal  food.  Many  kinds  of  sea  fish 
that  have  heretofore  not  been  used  are,  through  the  efforts  of 
the  United  States  Bureau  of  Fisheries,  coming  into  the  markets. 
This  is  an  economic  policy,  since  fish  is  one  animal  food  in  the 
production  of  which  food  that  might  otherwise  be  used  for 
human  beings  is  not  needed.  Facilities  for  packing  and  shipping 
fish  have  been  so  improved  within  the  last  few  years  that  it  is 
now  possible  for  almost  all  inland  communities  to  obtain  good 
sea  fish.  Some  kind  of  fresh  water  fish  is  almost  always  avail- 
able inland. 

FISH 

Fish  may  be  divided  into  two  classes  according  to  the 
amount  of  fat  contained  in  their  flesh:  (1)  white  fish,  or  fish  with 
flesh  that  contains  little  oil,  the  fat  being  secreted  in  the  liver 
— to  this  class  belong  cod,  haddock,  halibut,  turbot,  flounder, 
trout,  whitefish,  smelts,  perch;  (2)  oily  fish,  or  fish  in  which 
the  fat  is  distributed  throughout  the  flesh — to  this  class  belong 
salmon,  eels,  mackerel,  bluefish,  swordfish,  shad,  herring,  cusk. 

Selection  and  care  of  fish 
The  freshness  of  fish  may  be  determined  as  follows:  (1)  The 
flesh  should  be  firm;  (2)  the  eyes  should  be  bright  and  bulging; 
(3)  the  gills  should  be  red;  (4)  when  placed  in  fresh  water  the 
fish  should  sink,  not  float. 

To  care  for  flsh  properly,  it  should  be  cleaned  and  drawn  im- 
mediately, wiped  dry,  and  kept  on  ice  with  the  skin  down, 
avoiding  contact  with  other  foods.   Frozen  fish  may  be  thawed 

527 


528 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


.  by  placing  it  in  cold  water.  Salt  fish  should  always  be  soaked 
in  cold  water,  skin  side  up. 

Preparation  of  fish  for  cooking 
To  prepare  a  fish  for  cooking  it  must  be  cleaned,  skinned  and 
boned. 

To  clean  a  fish  the  scales  should  be  removed  by  scraping  the 
fish  from  the  tail  to  the  head  with  a  small  sharp  knife,  and  the 
fins  removed  by  making  an  incision  as  close  as  possible  to  each 
side  of  the  fin.  The  tail  should  then  be  cut  off.  If  the  fish  is  to 
be  baked,  the  head  and  tail  are  left  on,  but  the  eyes  removed. 
The  body  is  opened  by  cutting  from  the  gills  along  the  front  to 
the  tail,  the  entrails  removed,  the  inside  cleaned,  scraped,  and 
washed  out  with  cold  water,  and  the  fish  then  wiped  dry. 

To  skin  a  fish  the  fins  should  be  removed  and  the  skin  slit 
along  the  back  and  around  the  head  and  tail.  The  hand  should 
be  dipped  in  salt  to  keep  it  from  slipping.  The  skin  is  then  loos- 
ened below  the  head  and  drawn  from  the  head  down  to  the  tail 
on  one  side  of  the  body  and  then  drawn  from  the  other  side  of 
the  body. 

To  bone  a  fish  it  should  first  be  cleaned  and  skinned  as  di- 
rected. One  should  then  begin  at  the  tail  and  with  a  sharp  knife 
under  the  flesh  close  to  the  backbone  follow  the  bone  its  entire 
length,  making  as  clean  a -cut  as  possible.  This  removes  the 
flesh  from  one  side  of  the  fish.  The  fish  may  then  be  turned  and 
the  flesh  removed  from  the  other  side,  and  any  small  bones  that 
remain  may  be  picked  out. 

Methods  of  cooking  fish 

Boiled  fish. 

To  boil  small  whole  fish:  (1)  Clean  the  fish,  leaving  the  head,  tail,  and  fins, 
but  removing  the  eyes;  (2)  weigh  it;  (3)  place  it  on  a  rack  in  a  fish  kettle 
or  coil  it  in  a  frying  basket,  and  place  it  in  an  iron  kettle;  (4)  cover  it  with 
warm  water  (Boiling  water  causes  the  flesh  to  contract  and  crack;  cold 
water  draws  out  the  juices.  Salmon,  however,  must  be  plunged  in  boiling 
water  to  preserve  the  color) ;  (5)  for  each  2  quarts  of  water  add  1  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice;  (6)  bring  the  water 
quickly  to  the  boiling  point;  (7)  simmer  the  fish  until  it  is  done,  allowing 
from  5  to  8  minutes  to  the  pound  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  flesh; 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS 


529 


or  cook  it  until  the  flesh  will  separate  from  the  bones;  (8)  drain  it;  (9)  re- 
move it  to  a  folded  napkin  on  a  hot  platter;  (10)  garnish  it  with  parsley 
and  lemon. 

To  boil  pieces  of  fish  cut  from  a  large  fish:  (1)  Clean  the  fish;  (2)  wrap  it 
in  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  and  tie  it;  (3)  proceed  as  in  boiling  whole  fish. 

Court  bouillon  is  used  for  boiling  fresh  water  fish  that  have  Httle  flavor. 
Brown  in  1  tablespoon  of  fat,  1  chopped  carrot,  1  chopped  onion,  1  stalk 
of  celery;  add  2  quarts  of  hot  water,  1  cup  vinegar,  3  peppercorns,  3  cloves, 
1  bay  leaf,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  any  fish  trimmings;  strain  the  liquid  before 
putting  the  fish  into  it. 


TABLE  XXXIV. — Fish  that  may  be  Boiled,  and  Sauces,  Garnishes, 
AND  Vegetables  Suitable  for  Each 


Fish 

Sauce 

Garnish 

Vegetables 

Haddock ..... 

Egg 

Parsley,  cress 

Potato  balls 

Salmon  

Tartar 

Cress 

Asparagus,  carrots 

HoUandaise 

Lemon 

French  beans 

Egg 

Parsley 

Rice 

Halibut^  

Bechamel 

Cress 

Potato  croquettes 

HoUandaise 

Parsley 

Tomatoes,  green  salad 

Cod  

Butter 

Mashed  potatoes 

Caper 

Carrots 

Shrimp 

Turnips 

Oyster 

Beets,  greens 

Mackerel  

Caper 

Parsley 

Flounder  

Bechamel 

Chopped  parsley 

Carrots,  turnips 

Trout  

Horse-radish 

Sole  

Bechamel 

Carrots,  spinach 

Baked  fish. 

To  bake  whole  dry  fish:  (1)  Clean  the  fish,  leaving  the  head  and  tail  on, 
but  removing  the  eyes;  (2)  stuff  the  fish  with  any  fish  stufiing  desired; 
(3)  sew  up  the  fish;  (4)  place  the  fish  on  a  greased  rack  or  fish  sheet  in  a 
fish  pan  or  if  these  are  not  obtainable,  place  buttered  strips  of  cheese-cloth 
under  the  fish,  by  means  of  which  the  fish  may  be  lifted  from  the  pan  with- 
out being  broken;  (5)  truss  the  fish  in  the  shape  of  the  letter  S,  doing 
this  by  a  means  of  a  long  skewer  thrust  through  it  from  head  to  tail; 
(6)  cut  three  gashes  on  each  side  of  the  fish;  (7)  insert  a  thin  slice  of  salt 
pork  in  each  gash;  (8)  dust  the  fish  with  salt  and  pepper;  (9)  sprinkle  it 
with  flour;  (10)  put  it  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  it,  allowing  15  minutes  for 
each  pound;  (11)  baste  it  frequently;  (12)  remove  the  fish  to  a  hot  platter; 
(13)  remove  the  slices  of  pork;  (14)  fill  the  gashes  with  parsley;  (15)  gar- 


530  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

nish  the  fish  with  lemon;  (16)  strain  the  fat  to  be  used  as  a  foundation  for 
sauce. 

To  hake  fat  fish:  Proceed  as  for  dry  fish,  but  omit  the  pork. 


TABLE  XXXV.— Fish  that  may  be  Baked  Whole,  and  Sauces, 
Garnishes,  and  Vegetables  Suitable  for  Each 


Fish 

Sauce 

Garnish 

Vegetable 

Haddock  

Drawn  butter 

Lemon 

Mashed  potatoes 

Egg 

Parsley 

Hoilandaise 

Bluefish  

Shrimp 

Potato  ball:^ 

Lemon 

Parsley 

Cucumber 

Cod  

Oyster 

Mackerel  

Lemon 

Shad  

Lemon  juice 

Tomatoes 

Mashed  potatoes 

Lemon 

Sea  bass  

Tomato 

Parsley 

Tomatoes 

Tile  fish  

Maltre  d'hotel 

Parsley 

Weak  fish  

Lemon  juice 

To  hake  cutlets  and  fillets:  (1)  Wipe  the  fish  dry;  (2)  dust  it  with  salt 
and  pepper;  (3)  season  it  with  lemon  juice,  if  desired;  (4)  sprinkle  it  with 
bits  of  butter;  (5)  add  3^  cup  of  water  or  other  liquid;  (6)  place  the  fish  in 
a  hot  oven  allowing  from  5  to  8  minutes  for  each  pound,  according  to  the 
thickness  of  the  fish. 


TABLE  XXXVI. — Fish  that  may  be  Baked  in  Steaks,  Cutlets,  or 
Fillets,  with  Sauces,  Garnishes  and  Vegetables  Suitable  for 

EACH 


Fish 

Sauce 

Garnish 

Vegetahles 

Halibut   . 

Hoilandaise 

Puree  of  peas 

Potato  balls 

Tomato 

Tomatoes 

Brown 

Oysters 

Haddock  

Oyster 

Lemon 

Onions 

Salmon  

Bernaise 

Parsley 

Shrimps 

Flounder  

Bercy 

Sifted  egg  yolk 

Green  peas,  potatoes 

Cusk  

Lemon  juice 

Horse  mackerel .  .  . 

Lemon  juice 

Tile  

Tomato 

FISH  AND  OYSTERS 


531 


Broiled  fish. 

To  broil  fish  whole:  (1)  Clean  the  fish;  (2)  spht  large  fish  down  the  back, 
but  do  not  split  small  fish;  (3)  if  desired,  remove  the  head  and  the  tail; 

(4)  brush  the  fish  with  melted  butter  or  oil  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper; 

(5)  place  the  fish,  flesh  side  down  on  a  well-greased  broiler;  (6)  cook  it  for 
from  10  to  20  minutes  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  fish,  turning  it  often; 
(7)  if  the  fish  is  thick,  place  the  dripping  pan  under  the  broiler,  and  baste 
the  fish  with  butter  once  or  twice  during  the  cooking  and  finish  the  cooking 
in  the  oven;  (8)  carefully  separate  the  fish  from  the  broiler,  and  slide  it  on 
to  a  hot  platter;  (9)  spread  it  with  maitre  d'hotel  butter. 

To  broil  slices  of  fish:  (1)  Cut  the  fish  into  slices  1  inch  thick;  (2)  wipe 
it  dry;  (3)  season  it,  and  proceed  as  in  the  case  of  broiled  whole  fish. 


TABLE  XXXVII. — Fish  that  may  be  Broiled,  with  Sauces,  Gar- 
nishes, AND  Vegetables  Suitable  for  each 


Fish 

induce 

KjOLmtSii 

V  eQetcLOies 

Cusk  

Bluefish  

Horse  mackerel .  . 

Trout  

Lemon 

French  fried  po- 

tatoes 

Cod  

Melted  butter 

Parsley,  lemon 

Boiled  potatoes, 

Tomato 

carrots,  green 

peas,  beans, 

beets,  spinach 

HaUbut  

Butter 

Parsley 

Peas,  beans, 

beets,  spinach 

Tile  fish  

Mackerel  

Maitre  d'hotel 

Lemon,  cucumber 

Mashed  potato 

Scrod  

Shad  

Maitre  d'hotel 

Radishes,  parsley 

Duchess  potato 

Smelts  

Bechamel 

Sword  fish  

Cucumber, 

horse-radish 

Shad  roe  

Maitre  d'hotel 

Lemon  quarters 

Pompano  

Fricassee  of 

clams 

Potato 

Sauted  fish. 

To  saute  fish  steaks:  (1)  Clean  the  steaks;  (2)  wipe  them  dry;  (3)  season 
them  with  pepper  and  salt;  (4)  dip  them  in  granulated  cornmeal;  (5)  try 
out  slices  of  salt  pork;  (6)  remove  the  scraps  of  pork;  (7)  saute  the  steaks 
in  the  fat,  until  they  are  a  dehcate  brown  on  both  sides. 


532 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Fried  fish. 

To  fry  small  whole  fish  and  fillets  of  fish:  (1)  Clean  the  fish;  (2)  wash  it; 
(3)  dry  it;  (4)  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt;  (5)  roll  it  in  flour;  (6)  roll 
it  in  egg;  (7)  roll  it  in  breadcrumbs;  (8)  put  in  a  frying  basket;  (9)  dip  it 
in  deep  hot  fat  (175°  C),  and  cook  it  for  60  seconds  or  until  the  fish  is  a 
delicate  brown  color;  (10)  drain  it;  (11)  remove  it  to  soft  paper  for  further 
draining;  (12)  serve  it  on  a  folded  napkin. 

Carving  fish 

•To  carve  a  baked  or  boiled  fish,  a  silver  knife  and  fork  should 
be  used.  The  head  of  the  fish  should  first  be  removed  and  then 
the  length  of  the  back  cut  down  as  close  as  possible  to  the  bone, 
the  nearer  half  of  the  fish  being  cut  in  thick  slices.  When  all  the 
flesh  is  removed  from  one  side,  the  platter  or  the  fish  should  be 
turned  and  the  flesh  removed  from  the  other  side. 

OYSTERS 

Oysters  are  among  the  most  commonly  used  of  the  shell 
fish.  The  bivalves,  including  oysters,  mussels,  clams,  and  scal- 
lops, have  white  flesh  and  are  easily  digested.  The  crustaceans, 
including  lobsters,  crabs,  and  shrimps,  have  red  flesh  and  are 
more  difficult  to  digest  than  are  the  fish  of  white  flesh. 

Oysters  are  in  season  from  September  to  May.  They  are 
wholesome  but  not  so  palatable  during  the  other  months.  Al- 
though oysters  are  not  very  nutritious,  they  have  a  place  in  the 
diet  since  they  serve  as  appetizers.  The  tough  muscle  and  gills 
are  not  as  easily  digested  as  the  remainder  of  the  body.  When 
these  are  removed,  as  they  often  are  before  cooking,  the  oyster 
is  said  to  be  bearded. 

Selection  and  preparation  of  oysters 
Only  fresh  oysters  should  be  selected.   Oysters  are  now  trans- 
ported in  containers  surrounded  by  ice.   Preservatives  are  no 
used.  When  possible,  oysters  should  be  bought  in  the  shell. 

To  open  an  oyster  shell  one  should  first  wash  the  shells  thor- 
oughly with  a  brush  and  plenty  of  water.  A  thin  flat  knife 
may  then  be  pushed  under  the  upper  valve,  the  muscle  that 
holds  it  in  the  shell  cut,  and  the  upper  shell  or  valve,  raised  and 
lifted  off. 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS 


533 


To  clean  the  oysters  after  they  have  been  opened,  they  should 
be  placed  in  a  colander,  the  colander  placed  over  a  bowl  and 
cold  water  poured  over  the  oysters,  using  ^  cup  of  water  to  1 
quart  of  oysters.  Each  oys+er  should  be  examined  carefully, 
and  any  bits  of  shell  removed.  The  liquor  is  then  poured  off 
carefully,  and  reserved  for  use  in  sauces. 

Methods  of  serving  oysters 
Oysters  may  be  served  either  raw  or  cooked.  When  raw  they 
are  served  generally  on  the  half  shell,  in  cocktails,  or  with 
vinegar  sauce.  When  cooked,  they  may  be  roasted,  panned, 
broiled,  sauted,  fried,  served  in  sauces,  scalloped,  served  in 
stews,  in  pastry  cups,  in  croustades,  or  bread  cases. 

To  serve  oysters  on  the  half  shell, 

(1)  Use  small  varieties,  such  as  blue  points;  (2)  serve  the  oysters  raw 
only  when  they  are  perfectly  fresh;  (3)  open  the  oysters;  (4)  clean  them; 
(5)  chill  them;  (6)  arrange  a  bed  of  cracked  ice  on  each  plate;  (7)  arrange 
from  four  to  six  of  the  deeper  valves  on  this  ice  bed  having  the  valve  side 
toward  the  center  of  the  plate;  (8)  place  a  chilled  oyster  on  each  shell; 
(9)  in  the  center  of  the  plate,  place  a  quarter  of  a  lemon  on  a  sprig  of  pars- 
ley; (10)  serve  the  oysters  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  horse-radish,  tabasco 
sauce,  or  tomato  catsup. 

Oyster  cocktail. 

(1)  Clean  and  chill  oysters,  allowing  five  oysters  for  each  person  to  be 
served;  (2)  use  tomato  catsup  or  mix  the  following  ingredients  for  sauce 
(to  serve  twelve  persons) : 

1  tablespoon  horse-radish  5  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

teaspoon  tabasco  3  tablespoons  tomato  catsup 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  Worcestershire. 

(3)  Place  five  oysters  in  a  sherbet  cup  or  sherry  glass;  grapefruit  shells, 
lemon  shells,  tomato  cups,  green  pepper  cups,  or  cups  of  tomato  jelly  set 
in  beds  of  ice  may  be  used  instead  of  sherbet  cups;  (4)  add  1  tablespoon  of 
the  sauce. 

Cooking  of  oysters. 

(1)  Oysters  require  very  little  cooking;  (2)  put  them  over  the  fire  in 
their  own  hquor;  (3)  remove  them  as  soon  as  they  are  plump,  or  the  gills 
become  curled,  for  longer  cooking  makes  them  tough;  (4)  cracker  crumbs 
are  better  than  breadcrumbs  for  mixing  with  oysters. 


CHAPTER  XXVIII 


EGGS 

By  Winifred  Moses 

.  Eggs  are  one  of  the  best  meat  substitutes,  since  they  furnish 
animal  protein  and  are  easily  prepared  for  the  table.  Moreover, 
they  are  especially  valuable  in  the  diet  because  of  their  high 
iron-content.  Methods  of  preparing  eggs  are  practically  un- 
limited for  almost  any  course  in  a  menu. 

In  keeping  eggs  and  in  using  them  economically,  the  following 
suggestions  may  be  useful : 

Eggs  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  dry  place;  they  should  always 
be  washed  just  before  being  used;  left-over  egg-whites  should 
be  kept  in  a  cool  place  in  a  covered  dish;  left-over  egg-yolks 
may  be  beaten  and  kept  in  a  covered  dish;  left-over  egg-yolks 
may  be  dropped  whole  into  hot  water,  cooked  until  they  are 
solid,  and  set  aside  to  serve  in  soup;  cooked  egg-yolk  may  be 
rubbed  through  a  sieve  as  a  garnish  for  a  salad,  or  for  the  top 
of  a  dish  of  cream  toast  or  of  meat  warmed  in  a  sauce;  the 
clean  shells  from  uncooked  eggs  may  be  used  to  settle  coffee, 
or  to  aid  in  clarifying  fat  or  soups. 

All  egg  dishes  should  be  rinsed  with  cold  water  before  they 
are  washed.    Hot  water  hardens  albumen. 

TESTS  FOR  FRESH  EGGS 

The  following  tests  may  be  used  to  determine  whether  egg 
are  fresh:  (1)  The  shell  of  a  fresh  egg  is  rough,  not  smoot 
and  shiny;  (2)  a  reasonably  fresh  egg  will  sink  in  salt  water 
made  by  dissolving  Vs  cup  of  salt  in  1  quart  of  water  while 
stale  egg  will  float;  (3)  when  an  egg  is  candled,  that  is,  held 
against  an  opening  in  a  shield  around  a  bright  light,  a  fresh 
egg  will  appear  clear  inside  and  the  air  cell  will  not  be  large 

534 


EGGS 


535 


than  a  nickel;  (4)  a  fresh  egg  makes  no  sound  when  it  is 
shaken. 

EGG  COOKERY 

Beating  eggs. 

To  beat  well,  eggs  should  be  cold  and  fresh.  A  few  grains 
of  salt  added  to  the  whites  may  hasten  the  process.  In  pre- 
paring egg-white  for  beating,  one  should  be  careful  to  have  it 
free  from  every  particle  of  yolk.  If  a  close  texture  is  desired, 
the  Dover  egg-beater  should  be  used;  it  should  rest  lightly  on 
the  bottom  of  the  bowl  and  the  beating  should  be  slow  at 
first.  If  a  loose  texture  is  desired,  a  confectioner's  whisk 
should  be  used;  or,  for  a  still  looser  texture,  a  flat  egg-beater. 
Egg-whites  are  beaten  stiff  when  the  impression  made  by  the 
beater  is  retained;  they  are  beaten  dry  when  the  gloss  has  dis- 
appeared and  flaky  bits  fly  off  as  the  egg  is  beaten. 

For  thickening. — When  eggs  are  added  to  thicken  a  mixture, 
they  should  be  beaten  only  until  the  whites  and  the  yolks  are 
well  mixed,  or  until  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture  can  be  taken  up 
and  held  in  the  spoon. 

For  leavening. — When  eggs  are  added  to  insure  lightness, 
the  yolks  and  whites  should  be  beaten  separately;  the  yolks 
until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  and  the  whites  until  stiff,  that  is, 
until  the  dish  containing  the  beaten  egg  can  be  tipped  upside 
down  without  losing  the  egg  white. 

Eggs  cooked  in  the  shell. 

(1)  Cover  the  eggs  with  boiling  water,  and  cover  the  kettle;  (2)  remove 
the  kettle  from  direct  heat;  (3)  for  a  soft-cooked  egg,  allow  the  egg  to 
stand  in  the  hot  water  for  4  to  7  minutes;  for  a  medium-cooked  egg,  7  to 
10  minutes;  for  a  hard-cooked  egg,  from  45  to  50  minutes. 

Poached  eggs. 

Method  I:  (1)  Place  in  a  shallow  pan  as  many  muffin  rings  as  there  are 
eggs  to  poach;  (2)  turn  in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  the  rings;  (3)  when 
the  water  boils  break  an  egg  into  each  ring;  (4)  remove  the  pan  from  direct 
heat,  and  let  the  eggs  remain  in  the  water  until  the  whites  are  jelly-like  and 
translucent  (from  10  to  15  minutes);  (5)  remove  the  eggs  in  the  rings  to  a 
serving  dish,  with  a  skimmer  or  pancake  turner;  (6)  remove  the  muffin 
rings;  (7)  season  the  eggs  with  salt  and  pepper;  (8)  garnish  them  with 
parsley,  if  desired. 


536 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Method  II:  (1)  Add  a  dash  of  salt  to  the  white  of  an  egp;;  (2)  beat  the 
white  to  a  froth;  (3)  put  it  in  a  shallow  dish  or  in  a  j2;lass;  (4)  drop  the  un- 
broken yolk  in  the  cc^nter;  (5)  set  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water;  (6) 
cover  the  dish,  and  h^t  the  egg  cook  for  2  minutes. 

Method  III  (French  poached  eggs,  used  for  garnishes):  (1)  Fill  a  deej) 
saucepan  nearly  full  of  water;  (2)  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  tablespoon 
of  vinegar  to  1  quart  of  water;  (3)  when  the  water  is  boiling  violently, 
crack  the  shell  of  the  egg,  and  holding  it  close  to  the  water,  drop  the  con- 
tents quickly  where  the  water  is  boiling  hardest;  (4)  when  the  egg  is  firm, 
remove  it  with  a  skimmer,  draining  off -the  water. 

Shirred  eggs. 

(1)  Butter  individual  baking  dishes;  (2)  break  an  egg  into  each  dish; 
(3)  sprinkle  salt  on  the  whites  but  not  on  the  yolks;  (4)  place  the  dishes  in 
a  shallow  pan  of  hot  water,  and  place  the  pan  on  the  shelf  in  a  slow  oven ; 

(5)  baste  the  yolks  with  a  little  melted  butter,  while  they  are  cooking; 

(6)  cook  the  eggs  until  the  white  is  set. 

Variations:  (1)  Place  chopped  chicken,  ham,  mushrooms,  or  tomato 
puree  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  before  the  egg  is  added;  (2)  serve  the  eggs 
on  toast,  broiled  ham,  minced  meat,  or  stewed  kidneys;  (3)  pour  over  the 
top  cream.  Bechamel  or  tomato  sauce.   (See  Sauces,  page  552). 

Fried  eggs. 

(1)  Place  a  little  fat  in  a  very  clean  frying  pan;  (2)  when  it  bubbles, 
crack  the  shells,  and  drop  in  the  eggs;  (3)  cook  the  eggs  at  a  moderate 
temperature  until  the  white  is  set.  If  hard-cooked  eggs  are  desired,  turn 
them  and  cook  them  on  the  other  side. 

Scrambled  eggs. 

(1)  Beat  the  eggs  hghtly  with  a  fork,  just  enough  to  break  them;  (2)  to 
4  eggs,  add  2  tablespoons  of  milk,  3^  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  pepper; 
(3)  put  }/2  tablespoon  of  fat  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler;  (4)  turn  in  the 
eggs;  (5)  cook  them,  over  hot  water,  stirring  them  constantly  until  they 
begin  to  thicken;  (6)  remove  the  double  boiler  from  the  fire,  and  continue 
to  stir  the  eggs  until  they  are  of  the  proper  consistency. 

Variations:  (1)  When  the  double  boiler  is  removed  from  the  fire,  add  a 
teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  or  a  little  tomato  sauce  or  pulp,  or  minced 
chicken,  ham,  bacon,  or  mushrooms;  (2)  garnish  the  eggs  with  croutons 
or  parsley. 

Omelets. 

French  omelet:  (1)  Scour  the  omelet  pan  with  salt  and  vinegar,  and  wipe 
it;  (2)  just  before  using  the  pan,  scour  it  with  salt;  (3)  beat  the  eggs  just 
enough  to  break  them  (12  revolutions  with  a  Dover  beater);  (4)  to  3  eggs, 
add  }/2  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  3^  teaspoon  of  butter  broken 
into  small  bits,  adding  a  teaspoon  of  milk  or  not  as  desired;  (5)  heat  thej 
pan;  (6)  grease  the  pan  with  3^  teaspoon  of  fat;  (7)  turn  in  the  eggs;  (8)j 


EGGS 


537 


with  a  fork  break  the  cooked  surface  quickly,  in  several  places  around  the 
edge,  or  press  the  egg  away  from  the  sides,  letting  the  uncooked  part  run 
under;  (9)  when  the  egg  is  cooked,  but  still  quite  soft  on  top,  lift  the  pan 
on  one  side,  slip  a  knife  under  the  omelet,  and  carefully  fold  it  through  the 
center;  (10)  let  it  cook  a  moment  to  thicken  any  of  the  egg  that  has  run 
out;  (11)  place  a  hot  dish  over  the  pan,  and  invert  the  two  in  such  a  way 
that  the  omelet  will  fall  in  the  proper  place;  (12)  press  it  into  good  shape; 
(13)  garnish  it  with  parsley  and  serve  at  once. 

Variations:  (1)  Sprinkle  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley  over  the  top; 
(2)  turn  tomato,  Bechamel,  or  mushroom  sauce  on  the  dish  around  the 
omelet;  sprinkle  the  top  with  chopped  mushrooms,  if  mushroom  sauce  is 
used;  (3)  spread  the  omelet  with  chopped  ham,  oysters,  or  chicken  before 
folding  it,  and  serve  it  with  a  sauce;  (4)  spread  the  omelet  with  creamed 
peas  or  other  vegetable  before  turning  it,  and  serve  it  with  white  sauce; 
(5)  spread  the  omelet  with  jelly  or  jam  before  folding  it. 

Pufy  omelet:  (1)  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  they  are  dry  (page  535) ; 
(2)  beat  the  yolks  until  they  are  thick  and  lemon-colored;  (3)  add  3  table- 
spoons of  water,  3^  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of  pepper  for  each  3  yolks, 
and  mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly;  (4)  turn  the  mixture  over  the  beaten 
whites;  (5)  cut  and  fold  the  whites  into  the  yolk  mixture;  (6)  turn  the 
mixture  into  a  hot  buttered  pan;  (7)  cook  it  for  2  minutes  over  moderate 
heat;  (8)  set  it  in  the  oven  to  cook  the  top  slightly;  (9)  when  a  knife  thrust 
into  the  center  comes  out  nearly  clean,  remove  the  omelet  from  the  oven, 
cut  it  across  the  center  of  the  top  at  right  angles  to  the  handle,  fold  the  part 
nearest  the  handle  over  the  other  part,  and  turn  it  on  to  a  hot  platter. 

Variations:  (1)  To  3  egg-yolks,  add  the  grated  rind  of  1  orange,  3  table- 
spoons of  orange  juice,  and  3  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  garnishing 
the  omelet  with  sliced  oranges  and  powdered  sugar  (this  is  a  good  chafing- 
dish  recipe);  (2)  add  2  tablespoons  of  maraschino  juice  and  Vs  cup  of 
chopped  maraschino  cherries  to  the  beaten  yolks,  and  garnish  the  omelet 
with  strawberry  jam  and  cherries. 

Omelet  with  a  starchy  foundation:  (1)  Make  1  cup  of  medium  white  sauce 
(page  552);  (2)  stir  into  this  the  yolks  of  5  eggs;  (3)  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  (4)  melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  an  omelet  pan; 
(5)  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  cook  it  in  the  same  way  as  a  puffy  omelet. 

Variations:  (1)  Finely  chopped  ham,  chicken,  parboiled  oysters,  or 
mushrooms,  may  be  added  with  the  white  sauce  to  the  yolks  of  eggs;  (2)  1 
cup  of  grated  pineapple,  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  M  cup  of  sugar, 
may  be  added  to  the  yolks;  (3)  oranges  or  strawberries  may  take  the  place 
of  pineapple,  the  amount  of  sugar  depending  on  the  acidity  of  the  fruit. 

Firm  custards. 

Baked  custard:  (1)  Allow  from  4  to  6  eggs  or  6  egg-yolks,  3^  cup  of  sugar, 
M  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  few  gratings  of  nutmeg,  to  1  quart  of  milk; 
(2)  scald  the  milk;  (3)  beat  the  eggs  slightly,  and  add  the  salt  and  the 


538 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


sugar;  (4)  stir  the  scalded  milk  slowly  into  the  mixture;  (5)  turn  the  mix- 
ture into  a  pudding  dish  or  individual  cups;  (6)  grate  a  Httle  nutmeg  over 
the  top;  (7)  set  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate 
oven;  (8)  test  it  by  running  a  knife  into  the  center.  If  the  knife  comes  out 
clean,  the  custard  is  done. 

Variations:  (1)  To  each  quart  of  milk,  add  3^  cup  of  caramel;  (2)  use 
left-over  cocoa  instead  of  milk;  (3)  to  each  quart  of  milk,  add  3  ounces  of 
melted  chocolate. 

Molded  custard:  For  a  custard  firm  enough  to  turn  from  a  mold,  use  2 
eggs  to  each  cup  of  milk. 

Royal  custard:  For  a  custard  that  is  cut  in  slices  and  served  as  a  garnish 
use  1  egg  to  1  tablespoon  of  milk. 

Liquid  custards. 

Soft  custard:  (1)  Allow  4  whole  eggs  or  the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  3^  cup  of 
sugar,  3^  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  3^  teaspoon  of  vanilla  to  each  quart  of  milk 
(if  eggs  are  scarce,  substitute  3^  tablespoon  of  cornstarch  for  1  egg-yolk) ; 
(2)  scald  the  milk;  (3)  beat  the  eggs  slightly  and  add  the  sugar  and  the 
salt;  (4)  stir  the  scalded  milk  slowly  into  the  mixture;  (5)  cook  the  custard 
slowly  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  it  constantly,  until  it  thickens  and  coats 
the  spoon;  (6)  if  the  custard  curdles,  beat  it  with  a  Dover  egg-beater; 
(7)  add  the  flavoring;  (8)  cover  the  custard  with  a  perforated  tin  until  it 
is  served,  to  prevent  a  film  from  forming. 

Variations:  (1)  Just  before  removing  the  custard  from  the  heat,  fold 
in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  until  they  are  foamy;  (2)  caramel,  coffee, 
or  chocolate  may  be  added  to  the  milk  before  it  is  added  to  the  eggs. 

Uses  of  liquid  custard:  (1)  Pour  the  custard  over  alternate  layers  of  stale 
cake  and  sliced  peaches,  pears,  bananas,  or  oranges;  (2)  pour  the  custard 
over  sliced  fruit.  Garnish  the  dish  with  sliced  bananas,  dates,  or  nut  meats. 

English  custard  (for  filling  cream  puffs  and  eclairs):  (1)  Allow  for  each 
pint  of  milk,  2  eggs  or  4  egg-yolks,  3^  cup  of  flour,  ^  cup  of  sugar,  3^  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla,  and  3€  teaspoon  of  salt;  (2)  mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingre- 
dients; (3)  slowly  add  the  hot  milk  to  them,  stirring  the  mixture  constantly; 
(4)  cook  the  mixture  until  it  boils;  (5)  cool  it,  stirring  it  constantly  for  15 
minutes;  (6)  add  the  egg-yolks,  or  eggs,  and  stir  it  until  the  egg  is  cooked. 
It  may  be  necessary  to  return  it  to  the  heat. 

Variations:  (1)  3^  cup  of  black  coffee  may  be  substituted  for  3^  cup  of 
milk;  (2)  1  ounce  of  chocolate  cooked  with  2  tablespoons  each  of  sugar  and 
water  may  be  added  to  the  milk. 

Souffles. 

Plain  souffle:  For  4  e'ggs,  allow  1  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  and  rind  of 
1  lemon,  or  its  equivalent  in  liquid  and  other  flavoring;  (2)  beat  the  yolks 
until  they  are  thick;  (3)  add  the  sugar  gradually,  and  continue  beating; 
(4)  add  the  lemon  rind  and  juice;  (5)  cut  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites;  (6)  turn  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  set  in  a  pan  of 


EGGS 


539 


o  o  o  o  s 


m    m    O  O 


O)  O  j_  O  O 

s  s  o.a.a 

§3  o  o 


CI  .  0^  S 

<U  03  fl        o  K 

O  52  ~  c 

^  a  o  + 

b£  03  tC  0    ^  c 


II 


00      00  00 


00  00 


aa 


S'^^Bu'o  O  O  5  o  o  o  O 


03 

O 

o 
O 

o 

pq 

03 

S  ^-  ^-  S 
S     W     M     02  piH 


(DO    ;iS  CDS 


?ta  o 


540 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


hot  water,  and  bake  it  from  35  to  40  minutes;  (7)  serve  the  souffle  at  once, 
with  or  without  sauce. 

Fruit  souffle:  (1)  For  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  allow  ^  oi  a  cup  of  fruit  pulp, 
drained  and  passed  through  a  sieve,  sugar  as  needed,  and  a  few  grains  of 
salt;  (2)  heat  the  fruit  pulp,  and  sweeten  it;  (3)  beat  the  egg  whites  until 
they  are  stiff ;  (4)  add  the  fruit  pulp,  sugar,  and  salt  to  them,  and  continue 
beating;  (5)  turn  the  mixture  into  buttered  molds,  filling  them  three-fourths 
full;  (6)  set  the  molds  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  the  souffle  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  it  is  firm;  (7)  serve  it  with  or  without  sauce  or 
whipped  cream. 

Vegetable  souffle:  (1)  Allow  3  eggs  and  1  cup  of  vegetable  pulp,  rubbed 
through  a  sieve  to  1  cup  of  thick  white  sauce;  (2)  beat  the  yolks  until  they 
are  thick;  (3)  add  them  to  the  thick  white  sauce;  (4)  add  the  vegetables; 
(5)  beat  the  whites  until  they  are  stifT;  (6)  fold  them  into  the  other  mix- 
ture; (7)  add  the  seasoning;  (8)  turn  the  mixture  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  cook  it  in  a  moderate  oven  until  it  is  set. 

Custard  souffle  (for  the  main  dish  or  dessert):  (1)  Allow  4  eggs,  34  cup 
of  sugar  if  the  souffle  is  to  be  used  for  dessert,  and  3^  teaspoon  of  salt,  to  1 
cup  of  thick  white  sauce;  (2)  beat  the  yolks  until  they  are  thick;  (3)  add 
the  beaten  yolks  and  the  sugar  to  the  white  sauce;  (4)  beat  the  whites  until 
they  are  stiff;  (5)  fold  them  into  the  other  mixture;  (6)  turn  the  mixture 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and  set  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water;  (7)  bake  it  for 
about  35  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven;  (8)  serve  it  at  once  with  creamy  or 
foamy  sauce  (see  Sauces,  page  560). 

Fondues  are  made  in  the  same  manner  as  souffles,  milk  with  breadcrumbs 
being  used  instead  of  a  white  sauce.  They  are  not  so  light  as  souffles.  Both 
fondues  and  souffles  should  be  baked  by  being  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and 
placed  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Meringues. 

Meringues  for  pies  and  garnishes  for  desserts:  (1)  Allow  1  tablespoon  of 
sugar  to  1  egg-white;  (2)  chill  the  egg-whites;  (3)  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to 
them;  (4)  beat  them  with  an  egg-whisk  until  they  are  stiff;  (5)  add  the 
sugar  gradually,  and  continue  beating  until  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved; (6)  add  flavoring  as  desired;  (7)  cook  the  meringue  in  a  very  slow 
oven  for  about  15  minutes,  increasing  the  heat  somewhat  toward  the  end 
of  the  period,  if  necessary,  to  brown  the  meringue. 

Snow  eggs:  (1)  Allow  1  ounce  of  sugar  (2  tablespoons)  to  1  ounce  of  egg- 
white  (2  tablespoons);  (2)  beat  the  whites  until  they  are  nearly  dry;  (3) 
continue  beating,  and  add  half  of  the  sugar  gradually;  (4)  when  the  mix- 
ture is  very  firm,  fold  in  the  other  half  of  the  sugar;  (5)  dip  a  tablespoon  in. 
boiling  water,  fill  it  with  meringue,  and  shape  the  meringue  in  the  form  of 
an  egg;  (6)  remove  the  spoonfuls  of  meringue  to  a  pan  of  gently  simmering 
water,  and  let  it  stand  where  the  water  will  keep  hot;  (7)  poach  the  me- 
ringue until  it  is  firm  throughout;  this  requires  from  10  to  14  minutes. 


EGGS 


How  served 

As  dessert,  with 

or    without  a 

sauce 
As  dessert,  with 

or    without  a 

sauce  or 

whipped  cream 
As  main  dish 

As  main  dish 

As  dessert,  with 

creamy  sauce 
As  main  dish 

Additional 
ingredients 

H  cup  fruit  pulp 

1  cup  vegetable 

pulp 
1  cup  carrots, 
boiled  and 

mashed 

1/3  lb.  grated 
cheese,  l-l/S  cups 
breadcrumbs 

Flavoring 

Juice  1  lemon 

1  tbsp.  minced 
onion,  paprika 

1  tbsp.  butter 

White 
sauce 

1  cup, 
thick 
1  cup, 
thick 

1  cup, 
thick 

Milk 

1-1/3  cups 

Salt 

w  add 

Sugar 

1  cup 

To  sweet- 
en 

H  cup 

Eggs 

Tt^          CO  ^               CO      01          Tj<  rj< 

Souffle  or 
fondue 

Plain  souffle .  . 
Fruit  soufFi6 .  . 

Vegetable 

souffl6  

Carrot 

souffle  

Custard 
souffle 
Cheese  fondue 

542  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Snow  eggs  may  be  poached  in  milk,  and  the  milk  may  be  used  afterwards 
in  making  custards. 

Meringues  for  desserts:  (1)  Allow  1  pound  (2  cups)  of  sugar  and 
teaspoon  of  salt  to  3^  pound  (1  cup)  of  fresh  egg-whites;  (2)  chill  the  egg- 
whites;  (3)  add  the  salt;  (4)  beat  them  slowly  at  first,  but  faster  as  they 
grow  stiff;  (5)  add  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  beat  it  in  thoroughly;  (6)  add 
2  tablespoons  of  sugar  twice  again,  and  continue  beating  until  the  mixture 
can  be  cut  clean  with  a  knife;  (7)  add  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  folding 
it  into  the  mass  lightly  and  smoothly;  (8)  tack  a  piece  of  damp  paper  on 
a  board  1  inch  thick;  (9)  drop  the  mixture  in  spoonfuls  on  the  paper,  giving 
each  spoonful  an  oval,  or  egg  shape;  (10)  dust  them  with  granulated  sugar; 
(11)  set  them  in  a  very  slow  oven  to  dry;  (12)  at  the  end  increase  the  heat 
to  brown  them  delicately,  the  baking  requiring  from  ^  to  1  hour;  (13) 
when  they  are  baked,  lift  them  from  the  paper,  and  take  out  the  uncooked 
centers,  returning  the  shells  to  the  oven  to  dry  out;  (14)  when  the  shells 
are  cold,  fill  them  with  whipped  cream,  ice  cream,  or  water  ice;  (15)  serve 
the  meringues  at  once. 

Italian  meringue. — Italian  meringue  is  used  for  icing  cakes  and  as  a 
sauce.   Directions  for  making  it  are  given  on  page  488. 

Variations:  (1)  Substitute  3^  cup  of  grated  pineapple  juice  and  pulp  for 
the  water;  (2)  to  2  egg-whites,  allow  1  pound  of  maple  sugar  cut  into  bits, 
and  ^  cup  of  water  in  place  of  the  granulated  sugar  and  the  water;  (3)  add 
2  ounces  of  melted  chocolate  to  the  sirup  when  it  reaches  the  thread  stage. 


CHAPTER  XXIX 


VEGETABLES 

By  Lucile  Brewer 

Although  by  means  of  proper  storage,  vegetables  can  be 
kept  beyond  their  season,  the  price  of  products  held  in  this  way 
is  necessarily  higher  than  of  those  bought  in  season.  Therefore, 
the  general  rule  should  be  to  use  vegetables  when  they  are  in 
season  (page  550). 

Vegetables  may  be  classified  as  follows  according  to  the  parts 
of  the  plants  used : 

Tubers. — Potatoes,  Jerusalem  artichokes. 

Roots. — Beets,  carrots,  parsnips,  radishes,  sweet  potatoes, 
salsify,  and  turnips. 

Bulbs. — Garlic,  onions,  shallots. 

Stems. — ^Asparagus,  celery,  chives. 

Leaves. — Brussels  sprouts,  beet  greens,  cabbage,  dandelion, 
lettuce,  sorrel,  spinach,  water  cress. 
Flowers. — Cauhflower. 

Fruit. — Beans,  corn,  cucumbers,  okra,  eggplant,  pea©,  lentils, 
squash,  tomatoes. 

CARE  OF  VEGETABLES  IN  THE  HOME 

Summer,  or  green,  vegetables  should  be  cooked  as  soon  as 
possible  after  being  gathered.  If  they  must  be  kept,  they  should 
be  spread  on  the  floor  of  a  cool,  dry,  well-ventilated  cellar,  or 
placed  in  the  ice  chest.  Lettuce  should  be  sprinkled  with  cold 
water,  and  wrapped  in  heavy  paper  or  cloth.  If  vegetables  are 
wilted,  they  may  be  freshened  by  standing  in  cold  water.  Vege- 
tables containing  sugar  lose  some  of  the  sweetness  by  standing. 
Corn  and  peas  lose  their  flavor  more  quickly  in  this  way  than 
any  others. 

543 


544 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Winter  vegetables  should  be  stored  in  a  cool  dry  place.  Po- 
tatoes, carrots,  and  turnips  should  be  kept  in  barrels  or  bins 
in  order  that  as  much  air  as  possible  may  be  excluded.  Squashes 
should  be  spread  apart  in  such  a  way  that  they  will  not  touch 
one  another.  They  should  be  watched  carefully  and  when 
dark  spots  appear,  should  be  cooked  at  once.  Further  directions 
are  given  on  page  584. 

Canned  vegetables  should  be  emptied  from  the  can  as  soon 
as  they  are  opened,  turned  into  a  bowl,  and  allowed  to  stand  for 
at  least  one  hour  before  being  used,  in  order  that  the  flavor  may 
be  improved  by  contact  with  the  air. 

Dried  vegetables  should  be  soaked  in  cold  water  overnight 
and  cooked  in  the  same  water,  more  being  added,  if  necessary. 

COOKING  OF  VEGETABLES 

Vegetables  may  be  classified  according  to  flavor  into  those 
with  strong  juices,  and  those  with  mild  juices. 

Strong-juiced  vegetables. 

Strong-juiced  vegetables,  such  as  cauliflower,  Brussels  sprouts, 
cabbage,  onions,  and  turnips,  should  be  washed  in  cold  water 
and  cooked  until  they  are  just  tender,  in  boiling  water  in  an 
uncovered  kettle  to  allow  the  volatile  oils  to  pass  off  in  the 
steam.  In  this  way  the  flavor  is  made  more  delicate,  and  the 
color  is  kept  better.  If  strong-juiced  vegetables  are  over-cooked, 
they  become  dark  in  color,  strong  in  flavor,  and  may  produce 
digestive  disturbances. 

Mild -juiced  vegetables. 

Vegetables  with  mild  juices,  which  include  the  greater  number, 
should  be  washed  in  cold  water  and  cooked  in  boiling  water  in  a 
kettle  with  the  cover  ajar  until  they  are  soft. 

Salt. 

If  salt  is  added  to  the  water  in  which  vegetables  are  cooked, 
the  flavor  and  color  will  be  improved.  Les-s  mineral  matter  is 
dissolved  out  in  cooking  when  salt  is  added  at  the  beginning 
of  the  period  than  at  the  end.    If  the  vegetables  are  wilted  and 


VEGETABLES 


545 


likely  to  he  tough,  it  may  be  better  to  add  the  salt  just  as  they 
are  done. 

Soda. 

The  use  of  soda  in  cooking  vegetables  is  a  questionable  prac- 
tice if  it  is  employed  in  a  larger  amount  than  is  necessary  just 
to  neutralize  any  acid  of  the  vegetable  and  thus  prevent  loss 
of  color  in  cooking.  If  used  in  this  small  amount,  it  accomplishes 
the  purpose  and  does  not  make  the  vegetable  water  unfit  for 
use  in  soups  and  sauces.  It  is  thought  that  the  vitamines  of 
vegetables  may  be  destroyed  if  heated  in  an  alkaline  solution; 
therefore,  only  a  very  small  amount  of  soda  should  be  used.  For 
soaking  and  cooking  dried  legumes,  however,  3^  teaspoon  of 
soda  is  recommended  for  each  quart  of  water,  to  soften  the 
water  and  the  skins. 

Blanching. 

Vegetables  may  be  made  more  delicate  in  flavor  if  they  are 
blanched.  To  blanch  vegetables,  they  should  be  covered  with 
boihng  water  and  allowed  to  boil  for  5  minutes.  They  may  then 
be  drained,  rinsed  in  cold  water,  and  cooked  as  usual.  Since 
blanching  causes  a  loss  of  a  certain  amount  of  the  food  sub- 
stance, it  is  not  recommended. 

Losses  in  cooking  vegetables. 

Boiling  vegetables  is  a  wasteful  method  of  cooking  them  unless 
all  the  water  is  used  in  some  way,  such  as  in  soups  or  sauces. 
Much  of  the  nutrutive  value,  especially  the  mineral  substances, 
is  dissolved  out  by  the  water.  In  the  average  well-planned 
dietary,  vegetables  and  fruits  are  depended  on  to  furnish  much 
of  the  mineral  needed  by  the  body;  even  though  they  may 
seem  high  in  price  compared  with  certain  other  foods,  an  effort 
is  made  to  procure  them.  Therefore,  a  loss  of  these  important 
mineral  substances — iron,  phosphorus,  calcium,  and  mag- 
nesium— through  careless  cooking  should  be  avoided.  The  loss 
of  iron  in  boiling  spinach,  for  example,  has  been  found  to  be  as 
great  as  50  per  cent  under  certain  conditions.  The  per- 
centage of  loss  is  increased  by  paring  the  vegetables  or  cutting 


546 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


them  in  small  pieces  and  thus  exposing  more  surface,  be- 
fore cooking  them,  and  also  by  putting  them  on  to  cook  in  cold 
water. 

If  vegetables  are  to  be  boiled,  therefore,  plans  should  be  made 
for  using  the  water  in  which  they  are  cooked.  Unless  all  the 
water  is  to  be  used,  they  should  be  cooked  with  the  skins  on, 
they  should  not  be  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  they  should  be  put 
on  to  cook  in  boiling  water. 

Steaming  vegetables  effects  a  great  saving  over  boiling  them. 
However,  the  most  economical  method  of  cooking  those  vege- 
tables that  allow  it,  is  to  bake  them. 


VEGETABLES 


547 


"T^  a>  c3  5;? 

2  o  a  s  S*  a 

CO  U2 


"B-S 


CC  in  e 


<u  cc    ^  a 


6.2 


id 


o.S 


21 


m 

(h  —  >■ 

Q  03  2' 

S  C3  2 


.S  o-^ 

o  '=^< 
o  o  5  c 


fl  fl-0  c 
::3  «3  fl  , 


fl  ^ 


•t;.9 

-So3-ii^ofli^g^ 


^  fl  ^ 

^  03  W3 


fl-o  c  >'^'^^'6  i 


§  002  f:^.S       03  fl-£;  m  fl 


'^^  ^  fl 

3  a5  o  .2  ' 


D  >■  t 
2      O  i 

2y3  o.£ 


o  g<«  fl 

w)  ^/r/fl^ 

a  a  2  rf  — 

^  ?3  e3  ©  O 


Cut  tops  2  inches 
from  root.  Wash, 
but  do  not  break 
skin 

Wash,  scrape,  and 
drop  into  cold  wa- 
ter 

Wash  or  pare  and 
drop  into  cold  wa- 
ter 

.  Cover  with  cold  wa- 
ter and  peel  under 
water.    Drop  into 
cold  water 

Fresh  green  leaves 
with  dirt  clinging  i^o 
roots 

Fresh  green  leaves 
and  roots  not  too 
large 

Choose  good-sized 
smooth  sweet  po- 
tatoes 

Choose  medium- 
sized  onions 

(S  73  op 

iaS 


548 


A  MANUAL 


OF  HOME-MAKING 


ci 

S  S 

"Si  2 

!-i   03  0) 

w  M  H 

02 


5-1 

>  o 


^1 

c3  :3 


38i 


C  M  S 


Jo 


o  a 


O  O  = 


^  fcfl  l;  f5 

C  M  0) 

I2l III 

>  o  o  o  -g 
o  o  ^ 


Mo 


2  o-^^^ 


-ti  OQ   >•  g 

a  o';^ 
s-5 


o 

03.2 
!  u  o 

J  o  a 

1  03  o 


O  m 

CI  03 

> 
m  o 

^  a 


.2  a  w 

C3  ;3  g  ^  O 


O  IS 


C3  O 
^  <P  O)  »- 


a  S 

a  ^ 

=3  (H  bD 


^  a-D  s.a  o  ftp-E 


.a>: 


e-''^  ^  C3  d  gy^i"*- 
c  ^  S^^^-c 

>,.S  o  o  S 

O  o: 


VEGETABLES 


549 


Serving 

Drain  and  butter,  or 
serve  on  toast  with 
melted  butter  poured 
over 

Season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  butter,  or 
serve  with  a  cream 
sauce 

Season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  butter  and 
serve;  with  vinegar 

Season  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  butter,  or 
separate  and  serve  in 
cream  sauce.  Leaves 
may  be  served  us  gar- 
nish  at   first  meal, 
then    chopped  and 
warmed  over  in  white 
sauce 

Time  for 
boiling 

45  min. 
20  min. 

25  min. 

20-30 
min. 

Cooking 

Stand  heads  up  in 
deep  kettle.  Pour 
on  boiling  salted 
water  nearly  to 
cover.  Steam. 
Cook  covered 

Drop  into  rapidly 
boiling  salted  wa- 
ter.   Cook  uncov- 
ered, drain  as  soon 
as  tender 

Place  in  kettle  with 
no  water.  Allow 
to  heat  gradually, 
then  cook  in  its  own 
juice,  or  steam.  If 
old,  cook  in  boiling 
salted  water,  cov- 
ered; drain,  chop 
and  reheat 

Place  head  up  in  ket- 
tle, and  pour  on 
boiling  salted  water 
to  cover;  or  steam. 
Cook  with  cover 
off 

Preparation 

Cut  off  stalks  in 
bunch  as  far  down 
as  they  are  brittle. 
Untie,  wash,  and  re 
tie  in  bunches  of 
serving  size 

Remove  outer 
leaves.    Soak  in 
salted  water  head 
down  ior  30  min- 
utes to  draw  out 
insects.  Quarter, 
and  cut  out  stalk 

Cut  off  roots,  stems, 
and  poor  leaves. 
Wash  by  lifting 
from  one  pan  of 
water  to  another 
till  free  from  sand 

Cut  off  end  of  stalk. 
Soak  30  min.  in 
cold  salt  water, 
head  down 

Points  in  buying 

Freshly  cut  green 
stalks.    Wrap  in 
damp  cloth  until 
used 

Pick  out  heavy 
heads.  Keep  in  cool 
cellar 

Choose  spinach  with 
leaves  fresh  and 
dirty  rather  than 
shiny 

Choose  white  heads 
with  fresh  green 
leaves 

Part  of 
plant  used 

Stem 
Leaves 

Leaves 

Stem  and 
flower 

Vegetable 

Asparagus  .  .  . 
Cabbage  

Spinach  

Cauliflower.  .  . 

550  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Dec. 

1 

Nov. 

1 

1 

1 

To  frost 

To  frost 

1 

Oct. 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

Sept. 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

f 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

Aug. 

1 

I 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

I 

1 

I 

1 

1 

1 

1 

July 

1 

I 

1 

1 

1 

June 

1 

1 

1 

May 

I 

Apr. 

• 

Mch. 

Feb. 

Jan. 

Vegetable 

cr 

5 

c 
< 

c 
■ 

t 
c 

c 

« 
a 

cr 

) 

£ 

V 

C 

o; 

<x 

_£ 

_a 
c 
C 

s= 

a 
a 
PC 

V 

C 

c 

V 
0 

bl 
c: 

X 

) 

rnrrnt,  1 

Cauliflower    ...   1 

Celery  | 

Corn  

£ 

6 

b) 

bl 

K 

D 
D 

Endive  

Kohlrabi  

c 
a 

H-1 

Okra  

c 

c 
t 
bl 

13 
C 

"S 
o 

) 

VEGETABLES 


551 


K  I  5  I  K 


CHAPTER  XXX 
SAUCES 

Ey  Winifred  Moses 

Sauces  are  relied  on  in  cookery  as  a  basis  for  soups,  cro- 
quettes, souffles,  certain  desserts,  such  as  cornstarch  pudding, 
and  as  a  means  of  making  other  foods  more  palatable  or  more 
nutritious.  The  few  types  of  simple  sauces  can  be  varied  almost 
without  limit  by  the  imaginative  cook. 

WHITE  SAUCE 

Thin  sauce  | 
Up  to  3^  or  1  tablespoon  fat  j 

3^  or  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  cup  milk 

Seasoning 

Medium  thick  sauce 
Up  to  2  tablespoons  fat 

1 3^  to  2^  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  milk 

Seasoning 

Thick  sauce 

Up  to  3  or  4  tablespoons  fat 
3  or  4  tablespoons  flour 
1  cup  milk 
Seasoning 

Method  I. 

(1)  Melt  the  fat  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler;  (2)  when  the  fat  bubbles, 
remove  the  kettle  from  the  heat,  add  the  thickening  agent,  stirring  the 
mixture  until  it  is  smooth;  (3)  add  the  cold  liquid,  return  the  mixture  to 
the  fire,  and  stir  it  constantly  until  it  boils;  (4)  add  the  seasoning. 

In  this  method  nearly  as  much  fat  as  flour  should  be  used. 

Method  II. 

(1)  Scald  the  liquid  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler;  (2)  mix  the  thickening 
agent  with  a  small  amount  of  cold  Hquid,  beat  it  free  from  all  lumps 

552 


SAUCES 


553 


and  thin  it  to  the  consistency  of  thin  cream;  (3)  add  this  paste  gradually 
to  the  scalded  liquid,  stirring  the  sauce  constantly  until  it  boils;  (4)  add 
the  fat  and  the  seasoning. 

Fat  may  be  omitted  in  this  method,  or  varying  amounts  may  be  used. 

If  a  large  quantity  of  sauce  is  to  be  made,  Method  II  is  recom- 
mended because  of  the  shorter  time  required.  If  the  sauce 
is  not  to  be  used  immediately,  it  may  be  kept  hot  over  hot  water. 
It  should  be  kept  covered  to  prevent  a  film  forming  on  the  sur- 
face. If  lumps  appear,  due  to  a  faulty  method  of  making,  they 
may  be  removed  by  beating  the  sauce  with  an  egg-beater  or  by 
straining  it. 

BUTTER  SAUCE 

Method  of  making:  (1)  Melt  half  of  the  butter;  (2)  add  the  flour  and 
seasonings;  (3)  stir  the  mixture  over  the  fire  until  it  bubbles;  (4)  remove 
it  from  the  fire;  (5)  add  the  hot  water  gradually;  (6)  return  the  mixture  to 
the  fire  and  boil  it,  stirring  it  constantly;  (7)  add  the  remaining  butter  in 
small  pieces. 

BROWN  SAUCES 

Method  of  making:  (1)  Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan;  (2)  add  the  flour 
and  stir  the  mixture  until  it  bubbles;  (3)  remove  the  mixture  from  the 
fire,  and  add  the  liquid  gradually,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  lumps 
from  forming;  (4)  return  the  sauce  to  the  fire,  and  stir  it  until  it  boils; 
(5)  brown  stock,  browned  flour,  kitchen  bouquet,  Worcestershire  sauce, 
or  caramel  may  be  used  to  give  a  brown  color;  (6)  when  vegetables  and 
herbs  are  used  as  flavoring,  cut  them  very  fine,  cook  them  in  the  butter 
until  they  are  a  russet  brown,  strain  the  sauce  before  using  it;  (7)  when 
raw  mushrooms  are  used,  peel  them  and  clean  them,  simmer  them  in 
water  until  they  are  tender,  or  saute  them  in  butter;  (8)  when  olives  are 
used,  cover  them  with  boiling  water,  let  them  simmer  for  an  hour,  cut 
them  from  the  seeds. 

SAUCES  THICKENED  WITH  EGG 
Method  of  making:  (1)  Wash  3^  cup  of  butter  and  put  in  a  bowl;  to  wash 
butter,  cover  it  with  cold  water  and  wash  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  is 
free  from  water  and  salt;  (2)  divide  the  butter  into  three  parts;  (3)  put  one 
piece  in  a  saucepan  with  the  unbeaten  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  lemon  juice; 
(4)  place  the  saucepan  in  hot  water;  (5)  stir  the  mixture  in  the  saucepan 
constantly  until  the  butter  is  melted;  (6)  add  the  second  piece  of  butter 
and  continue  the  stirring;  (7)  add  the  third  piece  of  butter  and  continue 
the  stirring;  (8)  add  the  liquid  and  the  other  ingredients  gradually,  stirring 
the  sauce  constantly  until  it  thickens. 


554 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Btables 
en  or 

dishes 

dishes 

a 

g  cold 
chick- 

ut  or 
fish,  or 
)r  rice 
ni 

aa  soups 

lables 
ed  chick 

to 
di 

a 

or  egg 

dfowl 

d  mutto 

d  fowl 

coverin 
ats  and 

d  halib 
r  white  ] 
aroni,  c 
macaro 
d  fish 

Creai 
crea 
Fish 
Vege1 
Broil 
fish 

Fish 

Fish 

Boile 

Boile 

*o 

PQ  ,  

U,  0^ 

Bake 
othe 
mac 
Rice, 
Boile 

1 


So' 


8  111  II, -3 


d  £3  CD  0) 


Oh  op's  "3 

"J" 


a>     oi  a> 


?3  O  3  O 


II  II 

oh^'  a  a 

3  o  c3  ;3  o  o3 
u  o  O 


O   O         >H  o 


al 


SAUCES 


555 


•si 


3-2    o  'o.o^s 


I  ^  03  I  CI 


.1  a 


2  73-^  o:±  cj^^ 


a     —    a  — 


a 

chi 

cup 
whic 
boile 

cup 

ao 

a  o  3  rv 
3  O  O  B 


3 

idish 

•UI0( 

© 

Eggi 

Fish. 
Hors( 

Lobsi 

3 

A 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


a 

m  m 

IB 

o 
o 

a  a 
o  o 

a 
o 

a 
o 

G 
O 

a 
o 

O 
O 

a 

o  o 
aa 

o 
a 

o 
a 

O 

a 

o 
a 

CO 

a 

table: 

<V  D 

OQ 

CQ 

03 

<D 

tables 

tau 

tab 

03 

(M 

1^ 


»Hoo       a^  ' 


c3  J3 

t3  O  03  S 


SAUCES 


557 


a  a 


Ill 

TO  a> 


Tim  O 


o  ^  g  <1^* 

o3  o _j  -r!  -t^  ^  ^ 


c3  a  ©  fl  02  o 
*H  2  a  cj  a-^ 

b-S*^  S  s 


5^  +^ 


2  a§ 


.2  a, 


2  2  ^  57  ^ 
2  o  §  So  " 


a>.2,^ 


-I-Q\t)< 


O  O   tC   CQ  5 


CO    CO  CO 


ao)  a<i;aa>aa> 


(M      (N  (N 


gga 

2co-2 

3^  .a 

"  5^  g 

CO  3  -fe 


^  o  o 


a^  o 

O  O  cS 


A 


MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


-§53 

lil 

III 

Oca  ^ 


3  h-^ 


a  3 


U        (U  OJ 

.S  o  9  c 


SAUCES 


559 


o  S  3  3^ 

c3  a  a-Q 


«^  "2' 


§1  -9 

O 

O       5  3 

_g  bfl  a  c3 


PQ 


C3  O'C  <U  O  « 


o  a^-^  c  g-^  §  g  I  ^ 
g  ^.S  2co  3:a  g  g  M 


a  «  a,-i  - 


g  fl 


«  <U  03  O  03 
O  03  vjq-^ 


•3-33 

^  h  O) 


560 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


03  xo 


be  a 


02  a 


O 


3'^  ^ 


ail 


01      ®  03 


c3  d  2 


^3] 


^  "ox! 


^'JS^  §'§'0; 
g  bp  o  c3 

'SO 
1  ^  02  U  r-l  \^  C 


aS 

3  OS 
O  0) 


—  o  • 


SAUCES 


561 


In  all  sweet  sauces  except  hard  sauce,  corn  sirup,  maple  sirup,  or  honey 
may  be  substituted  for  all  or  part  of  the  sugar  with  slight  adjustment. 

SWEET  SAUCES 

Sweet  sauces  thickened  with  starchy  material. 

Method  of  making:  (1)  Mix  the  sugar  and  the  cornstarch;  (2)  add  the 
hot  liquid  gradually;  (3)  cook  the  mixture,  stirring  it  constantly  until  it 
thickens;  (4)  continue  the  cooking  over  hot  water  until  the  uncooked 
flavor  of  the  thickening  agent  can  no  longer  be  detected;  (5)  add  any 
flavoring  material  that  is  to  be  used. 

Sweet  sauces  thickened  with  egg. 

Method  of  making:  For  sauces  in  which  butter  and  sugar  do  not  form  the 
basis:  (1)  Beat  the  egg  slightly;  (2)  add  the  milk,  hot  or  cold;  (3)  add  the 
sugar  and  the  salt;  (4)  mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly;  (5)  cook  the  mix- 
ture over  hot  water,  stirring  it  constantly  until  it  coats  the  spoon;  (6)  add 
any  flavoring  material  that  is  to  be  used;  (7)  if  the  sauce  curdles,  beat  it 
thoroughly  with  a  Dover  egg-beater. 

For  sauces  in  which  butter  and  sugar  form  the  basis:  (1)  Cream  the 
butter;  (2)  add  the  sugar;  (3)  add  the  egg,  well-beaten;  (4)  add  the  liquid 
gradually;  (5)  cook  the  mixture  over  hot  water  until  it  is  creamy,  stirring 
it  constantly;  (6)  add  any  flavoring  material  that  is  to  be  used. 

For  sauces  thickened  with  beaten  egg  whites:  Add  the  egg  whites  to 
the  other  ingredients,  which  are  cooked  or  uncooked  as  necessary,  and 
beat  the  sauce  until  the  ingredients  are  well  combined. 

Sirup  sauces. 

Method  of  making:  Combine  the  sugar  and  the  water,  and  put  the  mix- 
ture over  the  heat;  stir  it  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved;  boil  it  without  stirring 
it  until'it  forms  a  good  thread  when  dropped  from  a  spoon;  add  the  flavor- 
ing or  crushed  fruit. 


TABLE  L.— Sirup  Sauces 


Sauce 

Ingredients 

Use 

Sirup  

3  tbsp.  boiling  water,  2  cups 

Plain  puddings,  pan- 

sugar, 1  tsp.  butter,  fruit 

cakes 

juice  for  desired  flavor 

Strawberry  

3^  cup  boiling  water,  ^  cup 

Blanc  mange,  cottage 

sugar,  1  quart  strawberries 

pudding 

put  through  a  sieve 

562 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Solid  sauces. 

Method  of  making:  (1)  Cream  the  butter;  (2)  add  the  sugar  gradually; 
(3)  add  the  other  ingredients,  working  them  well  into  the  mixture;  (4) 
place  the  sauce  on  ice  to  harden. 


TABLE  LI.— Solid  Sauces 


Sauce 

Ingredients 

Use 

Hard,  I  

}/2  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar. 

Puddings 

vanilla 

Hard,  II  

'j/2  cup  butter,  1  egg  yolk,  1 

Puddings 

cup  sugar,  vanilla 

Hard,  III.   

}/2  cup  butter,  1  egg  white,  1 

Puddings 

cup  sugar,  vanilla 

Strawberry  

1/3  cup  butter,  1  egg  white, 

Boiled  rice 

1  cup  powdered  sugar,  2/3 

cup  strawberry  pulp 

Cocoanut  

3^  cup  butter,  2  egg  yolks. 

Suet    pudding,  plain 

2  egg  whites,  1  cup  grated 

pudding,  steamed 

cocoanut,  1  cup  sugar 

pudding,  hot  rice  pud- 

ding, hot  tapioca  pud- 

ding 

CHAPTER  XXXI 


SALADS 

By  Miriam  Birdseye 

The  word  salad  is  derived  from  the  Latin  salatus,  meaning 
salted.  The  original  salad  probably  consisted  of  crisp  leaf  or 
stem  vegetables  dressed  with  salt.  With  the  passage  of  years, 
the  meaning  of  the  term  has  been  expanded  to  include  any 
food  or  combination  of  foods  served  with  an  acid-bearing 
dressing,  provided  it  is  accompanied  by  some  crisp  salad-green 
as  an  important  part  of  the  dish  itself  or  as  a  conspicuous 
garnish.  The  typical  salad,  however,  remains  a  dish  of  crisp 
salad  greens  with  some  very  simple  dressing,  sometimes  only 
oil  and  salt. 

Salads  offer  a  palatable  and  attractive  way  of  disposing  of 
small  quantities  of  choice  left-over  vegetables,  fruits,  or  meats, 
and  of  introducing  fruits  and  vegetables  into  the  daily  meals, 
especially  green  leaf-vegetables,  which  are  known  to  be  excel- 
lent sources  of  food-iron.  Salads  lend  a  strong  color  note, 
pleasantly  acid  flavor,  and  succulence  to  the  menu.  Probably 
no  other  type  of  dish  solves  as  many  of  the  menu-maker's 
problems  as  does  salad;  and  this  is  the  real  secret  of  its  popu- 
larity. 

SALAD  HERBS 

To  season  salads  and  dressings. 

The  following  herbs,  except  capers,  may  easily  be  grown  in 
the  home  garden.  For  directions  for  cultivating  them,  see 
Bailey's    Standard  Cyclopedia  of  Horticulture." 

Capers:  Used  as  a  garnish  for  meat  and  fish  salads,  mixed  with  the  salad 
itself,  or  chopped  and  added  with  other  chopped  seasonings  to  mayonnaise 
dressing.   Capers  are  the  buds  of  a  shrub  which  is  cultivated  in  European 

563 


564 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


countries  bordering  the  Mediterranean;  they  are  generally  pickled  in  vine- 
gar and  sold  in  small  bottles. 

Chervil:  Chopped  like  parsley,  sprinkled  over  endive  or  fish  salads,  or 
used  to  make  chervil  vinegar. 

Chives:  Chopped  and  sprinkled  over  potato  or  meat  salads,  or  added  to 
salad  dressings.  They  are  a  small  plant  of  the  onion  family  and  grow  wild 
in  many  parts  of  the  country.  Cultivated  chives  may  sometimes  be  bought 
growing  in  flat  wooden  boxes;  they  are  slender  onion-like  leaves. 

Garlic:  The  bulb  or  ''clove"  is  sometimes  used  to  rub  the  bottom  of  the 
salad  bowl,  but  more  frequently  to  prepare  a  chapon  for  green  salads.  A 
chapon  is  a  thin  piece  of  bread  crust,  about  1  inch  wide  and  2  inches  long, 
sprinkled  with  salt  and  rubbed  with  a  crushed  clove  of  garlic.  It  is  placed 
in  the  bottom  of  the  salad  bowl  before  the  salad  is  put  in,  and  remains 
during  the  mixing,  but  is  removed  before  the  salad  is  served. 

Nasturtium,:  The  flowers  are  used  as  a  garnish;  the  leaves  and  young 
buds  are  chopped  to  give  flavor.  Sometimes  young  seeds  are  chopped  and 
added  to  mayonnaise  dressing  with  other  chopped  seasonings. 

Onion:  The  cut  side  of  an  onion  may  be  rubbed  over  the  bowl  before 
the  salad  is  put  in  to  give  a  slight  onion  flavor  to  a  green  salad.  Oil  for 
dressings  to  be  used  with  vegetables,  meat,  or  fish  is  sometimes  flavored 
by  allowing  a  slice  of  onion  or  a  little  onion  pulp  to  lie  in  it  for  a  few  hours; 
onion  juice  may  be  added  to  the  dressing  itself  if  desired. 

Parsley:  Chopped  fine  and  used  with  other  chopped  seasonings  in  both 
French  and  Mayonnaise  dressings. 

Sage:  Chopped  and  used  with  meat  salads. 

Spearmint:  Chopped  and  sprinkled  over  cold  lamb  salad;  or  used  for 
flavoring  vinegar  to  be  served  with  lamb  salad. 
Sweet  basil:  Used  with  fish  and  shell-fish. 

Tarragon:  Chopped  and  sprinkled  over  salads,  or  used  to  make  tarragon 
vinegar.   Tarragon  has  a  delicate  flavor  resembling  that  of  anise. 

Seasons  for  salad  greens. 

Spring:  Lettuce  (curly,  Boston  head,  or  Romaine  varieties),  water  cress, 
upland  or  winter  cress  (charlock),  black  or  white  mustard,  peppergrass, 
wild  chives,  young  radish  and  turnip  tops,  sorrel,  blanched  dandelions, 
corn-salad  (lamb's  salad  or  fetticus),  blanched  wild  chicory  (succory). 

Summer:  Lettuce,  water  cress,  sorrel,  cabbage,  nasturtium  stems  and 
young  buds,  endive  (late  summer). 

Autumn:  Lettuce,  sorrel,  endive,  cabbage,  celery. 

Winter:  Lettuce,  French  endive  (witloof  chicory),  endive,  cabbage, 
celery. 

SALAD  DRESSINGS 

The  apparently  infinite  number  of  salad  dressings  may  read- 
ily be  reduced  to  a  few  well-recognized  types.  These  types  with 


SALADS 


565 


their  best-known  modifications  are  listed  below  in  the  order 
of  their  simplicity.  It  is  beheved  that  this  classification  will 
prove  more  suggestive  than  a  large  number  of  specific  recipes. 

Salt. 

Suitable  for  a  green  salad. 
Salt  and  oil. 

Suitable  for  a  green  salad  or  for  tomatoes. 

Vinegar,  sugar,  and  water. 

Suitable  for  a  green  salad  or  for  tomatoes. 

Lemon  juice,  sugar,  and  water. 

Suitable  for  a  green  salad,  for  tomatoes,  or  for  fruit.  Children  are  likely 
to  enjoy  this  dressing. 


An  equal  quantity  of  cold  water  Salt 
French  dressing. 

The  most  extensively  used  dressing;  suitable  for  green  salads,  vegetable 
salads,  fruit  salads,  egg,  fish,  or  meat  salads,  although  as  a  rule  a  thicker 
dressing  is  preferred  for  the  last  three. 


Mix  the  ingredients  thoroughly,  either  by  beating  them  with  a  fork  till 
well  thickened,  or  by  shaking  them  in  a  jar  or  glass-stoppered  bottle.  If 
French  dressing  is  made  in  quantity  in  a  bottle,  the  amount  needed  may 
be  poured  out,  and  the  remainder  may  be  stored  in  a  cold  place  for  sub- 
sequent use.  The  dressing  should  be  thoroughly  shaken  before  it  is  used 
a  second  time.   Special  bottles  for  French  dressing  are  now  on  the  market. 

Variations  of  French  dressing. 

1.  Add  3^  teaspoon  of  onion  juice.  2.  Add  1  teaspoon  made  mustard  or 
3^  teaspoon  ground  mustard.  3.  Use  teaspoon  paprika  (Hungarian  red 
pepper)  instead  of  black  pepper.  4.  Add  from  34  to  teaspoon  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  5.  For  fruit  salads,  use  lemon  juice,  orange  juice,  or  grape- 
fruit juice  in  place  of  the  vinegar,  and  add  34  teaspoon  or  more  of  powdered 
sugar.  6.  To  make  a  sharper  tasting  dressing,  use  a  larger  proportion  of 
vinegar  and  more  salt.  7.  Use  vinegar  flavored  with  tarragon  or  with 
chervil.  8.  To  secure  a  slight  flavor  of  strong  herbs,  crush  a  few  of  the 
fresh  leaves  in  a  mortar,  and  soak  them  in  a  little  oil,  which  may  then 
be  pressed  out  and  added  to  the  dressing.   Herbs  may  be  used  as  follows: 


Recipe. 

Strained  juice  of  1  lemon. 


1  teaspoon  powdered  sugar 


Recipe. 

3  tablespoons  oil 
1  tablespoon  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice 


34  to  3^  teaspoon  salt 
1/8  teaspoon  pepper 
Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 


566 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Summer  savory  or  thyme  in  a  green  salad  to  be  served  with  poultry;  mint 
in  a  salad  to  be  served  with  lamb  or  mutton  or  on  a  lamb  or  mutton  salad; 
sweet  marjoram  or  sage  in  a  salad  served  with  geese  or  ducks;  sweet  basil 
in  a  salad  of  fish  or  clams;  caraway,  balm,  or  chervil  may  also  be  used. 
9.  Add  chopped  parsley,  chives,  capers,  or  green  peppers.  10.  Add  the 
finely  chopped  white  of  a  hard-cooked  egg,  or  the  yolk  put  through  a  sieve. 
11.  Add  chutney  sauce,  catchup,  or  Chile  sauce.  12.  Add  tabasco  or  Wor- 
cestershire sauce.  13.  Add  cheese,  such  as  grated  Cheddar,  crumbled 
Roquefort,  or  grated  Parmesan.   14.  Add  curry  powder. 

Cream  dressing. 

Two  standard  recipes  for  cream  dressings  are  as  follows: 
Sour  cream  dressing  (for  cold  boiled  vegetables  and  tomatoes) 

1  cup  thick  sour  cream  (not  too  old) 

2  teaspoons  vinegar  1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt  Dash  of  cayenne  or  3^  teaspoon 

Juice  3^  lemon  paprika 

Beat  the  ingredients  together  thoroughly. 
Sweet  cream  dressing  (for  vegetable  or  fruit  salads) 

3^  cup  heavy  cream  3^  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  vinegar  Cayenne  pepper  or  3^  teaspoon 


Beat  the  cream  until  it  is  stiff;  add  the  seasonings;  add  the  vinegar 
slowly,  and  continue  to  beat  until  the  ingredients  are  well  blended.  For 
tomato  salads  and  meats,  fold  in  2  tablespoons  of  grated  horse-radish  root. 

Mayonnaise  dressing. 

Suitable  for  egg  salad,  fish  or  meat  salad,  and  for  fruit  or  vegetable  salad, 
although  French  dressing  is  often  preferred  for  the  last  two. 


Few  grains  cayenne 

If  onion  flavor  is  desired,  rub  a  bowl  with  a  freshly  cut  onion  or  a  clove 
of  garlic.  Put  in  the  seasonings,  and  mix  them  well.  Add  the  entire 
amount  of  acid,  then  add  the  egg  yolk  and  beat  the  mixture  well.  Add 
the  oil,  at  first  by  tablespoons  and  later  in  larger  quantities,  beating  the 
mixture  with  a  Dover  egg-beater  after  each  addition.  When  all  the  oil 
has  been  used,  add  any  further  necessary  seasonings,  and  beat  the  mixture 
thoroughly.  Cover  the  bowl  with  an  earthen  dish,  and  keep  it  in  a  cool 
place  until  it  is  needed. 


paprika 


Recipe. 

1  cup  oil 
Yolk  of  1  egg 

2  tablespoons  vinegar 


if  desired 
2/3  teaspoon  salt 
2/3  teaspoon  mustard 


2/3  teaspoon  powdered  sugar, 


or  lemon  juice 


SALADS 


567 


i  By  adding  the  acid  before  the  oil,  the  egg  is  partially  curdled  or  thick- 
ened, and  the  oil  may  be  added  more  rapidly  than  by  the  older  method. 

-'-Mayonnaise  may  be  prevented  from  separating,  and  the  quantity  may 
be  increased  without  materially  altering  the  flavor,  by  stirring  into  it, 
after  it  is  mixed,  from  1/3  to  its  bulk  of  hot  cornstarch  paste,  made  in 
the  following  way : 

'        2  tablespoons  cornstarch  1/3  cup  boiling  water 

!         1/3  cup  vinegar 

Add  the  vinegar  to  the  cornstarch  in  an  enamel  saucepan,  stirring  the 
mixture  until  it  is  smooth.    Add  the  boiling  water,  bring  the  mixture  to 
the  boiling  point,  and  simmer  it  gently  for  5  minutes.   Cool  it  slightly,  and 
beat  the  desired  quantity  into  the  mayonnaise,  which  will  become  thicker 
I  and  Hghter  in  color.   Chill  the  dressing  before  using  it. 

This  starch-paste  binding  is  good  for  modifying  the  excessive  oily  flavor, 
to  which  some  persons  object.  It  may  also  be  used  to  conceal  the  flavor 
of  cottonseed,  corn,  or  peanut  oil  for  persons  who  have  become  accustomed 
to  olive  oil. 

Variations  in  mayonnaise  dressing. 

1.  The  number  of  raw  egg-yolks  in  the  original  dressing  may  be  in- 
creased, or  part  of  the  yolks  used  may  be  raw  and  the  other  part  hard- 
cooked  and  pressed  through  a  sieve.    When  several  egg-yolks  are  used, 
1  somewhat  less  oil  will  be  required,  and  the  dressing  will  be  stiff  enough 
'  for  whipped  cream  or  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  egg  to  be  added  to  it  just 
:  before  it  is  used.    Extra  salt  and  other  seasoning  should  be  added  as 
required.   When  hard-cooked  yolks  are  substituted  entirely  for  raw  yolks, 
the  result  is  called  Remoulade  sauce.   2.  For  Potato  Mayonnaise  use  the 
inside  of  a  small  freshly-  baked  potato  in  place  of  egg-yolks.   Remove  it, 
mash  it,  and  add: 

1  teaspoon  mustard  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  powered 

Dash  of  cayenne  pepper  sugar,  if  desired 

Force  the  mixture  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  add  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar 
and  2/3  cup  of  oil  by  tablespoons,  as  in  standard  mayonnaise.  3.  Use  thick, 
slightly  soured  cream  in  place  of  a  part  of  the  oil.  4.  Use  melted  butter 
in  place  of  a  part  of  the  oil.  5.  For  fruit  salads,  use  powdered  sugar,  omit 
the  mustard  and  pepper,  and  use  lemon  juice  in  place  of  vinegar.  6.  For 
White  Mayonnaise,  use  a  smaller  quantity  of  egg-yolk;  substitute  lemon 
juice — which  whitens  the  dressing — for  vinegar.  Beat  in  whipped  cream 
or  stiffly  beaten  egg-whites  just  before  using  the  dressing.  7.  For  Green 
Mayonnaise,  add  juice  pressed  from  fresh  leaves  of  spinach,  parsley, 
tarragon,  or  other  salad  herbs.  A  combination  of  two  parts  of  water 
cress  and  one  part  of  parsley  is  particularly  good.  Break  the  greens  in 
pieces,  pound  them  in  a  mortar  until  they  are  thoroughly  macerated ;  then 


568 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


squeeze  out  the  juice  through  cheese-cloth.  Artificial  vegetable  coloring 
may  also  be  used.  8.  For  Red  Mayonnaise,  color  the  dressing  with  lobster 
or  pimentos  rubbed  through  a  fine  sieve,  or  with  cooked  beet  juice,  highly 
colored  fruit  juice,  or  artificial  vegetable  colorings.  9.  For  Horse-radish 
Mayonnaise,  to  be  used  with  meat  and  fish  salads,  add  about  3  tablespoons 
of  grated  horse-radish,  or  the  same  amount  of  prepared  horse-radish.  In 
the  latter  case,  squeeze  out  the  vinegar  in  which  the  horse-radish  was 
packed,  and  use  it  instead  of  the  plain  vinegar  in  the  dressing.  10.  For 
meat,  fish,  or  shell-fish  salads,  to  1  cup  of  mayonnaise  add  2  tablespoons 
each  of  olives  and  finely  chopped  pickles.  11.  For  Mayonnaise  Tartare 
or  Sauce  Tartare,  to  be  used  with  fish  and  shell-fish  salads,  fried  fish, 
scallops,  and  soft-shell  crabs,  add  onion  juice  or  finely  chopped  onions  and 
finely  chopped  cucumber  pickles,  capers,  parsley,  and  olives.  12.  To  1  cup 
of  mayonnaise,  add  1 tablespoons  of  chutney  and  stir  the  mixture  until  1 
it  is  thoroughly  blended. 

Cooked  salad  dressings. 

Boiled  dressing  (for  vegetable  and  fruit  salads,  and  for  salmon  salad). 
Recipe  I 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  3^  teaspoon  paprika 

1/3  cup  sugar  }^  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  mustard  1  cup  vinegar 

Whipped  cream 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  and  add  to  them  the  other  ingredients  in  the 
order  given.  Cook  the  mixture  in  a  double  boiler,  stirring  it  constantly 
until  it  is  smooth  and  thick.  This  dressing  will  keep  for  a  long  time  in  a 
cold  place.  When  ready  to  use  the  dressing,  mix  it  with  equal  parts  of 
whipped  cream.  A  variation  pineapple  dressing  for  fruit  salads  may  be 
made  as  follows: 

2  eggs  1 tablespoons  butter 
6  tablespoons  pineapple  juice  Salt 

3  tablespoons  sugar  Whipped  cream 

Recipe  II. 

•    4  tablespoons  sugar  IJ^  cups  milk 

2  3^  teaspoons  mustard  3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

2  teaspoons  salt  cup  vinegar 

1 3^  tablespoons  flour  2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

Cayenne  pepper 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  and  blend  with  them  3^  cup  of  milk.  Heat  the 
remainder  of  the  milk  to  the  boiling  point,  add  the  butter,  thicken  it  with 
the  first  mixture,  and  boil  this  for  2  minutes.  Cool  the  mixture  slightly, 
add  the  vinegar  gradually,  and  pour  this  hot  liquid  cautiously  over  the 
sHghtly  beaten  egg,  stirring  it  constantly.    Cook  the  dressing  over  hot 


SALADS 


569 


water  until  it  thickens.   Cool  it  immediately  in  order  to  prevent  curdling, 
and  pour  it  into  a  scalded  glass  jar.   This  recipe  makes  more  than  a  pint 
of  rather  mild  dressing,  which  will  keep  for  a  long  time  in  a  cold  place. 
No  whipped  cream  need  be  added  to  the  dressing. 

For  lobster,  tuna-fish,  or  meat  salad,  omit  the  sugar  and  reduce 
the  milk  to  1  cup;  add  2  extra  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  a  little  more 
vinegar.  Thus  modified  the  dressing  has  somewhat  the  consistency  of 
real  mayonnaise,  and  is  more  palatable  with  meat  salads  and  with  lobster 
and  tuna-fish  salads  than  is  the  sweetened  form.  For  fruit  salads,  omit 
the  mustard  and  the  butter,  and  replace  the  milk  with  thin  cream. 

Bacon  dressing. 

Use  the  fat  left  from  cooking  bacon  or  smoked  ham.  Heat  it,  and  strain 
it  through  fine  cheese-cloth,  if  there  is  much  sediment.  Use  two  parts 
of  fat  to  one  part  of  vinegar,  thicken  it  slightly  with  flour  and  water  well 
blended,  and  cook  the  mixture  for  a  few  minutes  to  remove  the  raw  taste 
of  the  flour.  This  dressing  is  generally  served  hot  on  dandelion,  cabbage, 
and  other  green  salads.  It  is  a  good  salad  dressing  for  use  on  camping  trips. 


CHAPTER  XXXII 


DESSERTS 

,      By  Winifred  Moses 

In  planning  a  well-balanced  meal  the  dessert  must  be  con- 
sidered, because  if  it  is  used  at  all  it  plays  a  part  in  the  nutritive 
scheme  of  the  meal.  It  may  be  as  simple  as  fresh  fruit  or  as 
complex  as  plum  pudding,  and  the  correct  choice  determines  the 
success  of  the  meal  both  in  nutritive  value  and  in  palatability. 
If  the  main  part  of  the  meal  is  made  up  of  less  hearty  foods,  the 
dessert  may  well  be  a  heavy  one,  such  as  steamed  pudding  with 
hard  sauce,  or  pie.  If  the  other  courses  are  heavy,  however,  a 
hght  dessert  such  as  fruit  or  fruit  sherbet  may  be  the  best  choice. 

Batters  and  doughs  and  eggs  mixtures  are  discussed  elsewhere. 
Other  desserts  will  be  briefly  considered  in  this  chapter. 

FRUITS 

Fruits  may  be  served  alone  as  dessert,  fresh  or  cooked,  hot 
or  cold.  A  combination  of  fruits  may  be  used  for  variety  in 
flavor  or  color. 

GELATIN  DESSERTS  jl 

General  directions  for  making  gelatin  desserts  are  as  follows:  h 

(1)  Soak  the  gelatin  in  about  four  times  its  measure  of  cold  liquid  fo^J 
from  3  to  5  minutes,  or  until  it  is  softened;  (2)  dissolve  it  by  pouring  the  boil- 
ing liquid  over  it;  or  to  hasten  the  process  set  the  gelatin  and  cold  liquid 
over  boiling  water  to  dissolve;  (3)  add  the  sugar  to  the  hot  mixture,  stirring 
it  until  it  is  dissolved;  (4)  add  the  fruit  juice  or  other  flavoring;  (5)  turn  it 
immediately  into  a  wet  mold,  allow  it  to  cool  and  place  it  near  ice  to  stiffen; 
(6)  if  a  foamy  jelly  is  desired,  before  pouring  the  mixture  into  the  mold, 
allow  it  to  cool  and  begin  to  stiffen,  then  beat  it  well  with  a  wire  whisk 
before  pouring  it  into  the  wet  mold;  (7)  if  fruit  is  to  be  used,  allow  the  jelly 
to  begin  to  stiffen  before  adding  it  in  order  that  it  may  be  mixed  evenly 
throughout  the  jelly,  or  it  may  be  added  in  layers  by  allowing  one  layer 

570 


DESSERTS 


571 


of  jelly  to  stiffen,  adding  a  layer  of  fruit,  pouring  over  this  more  of  the 
jelly  mixture  that  has  been  kept  warm,  and  allowing  this  layer  to  stiffen 
before  adding  more  fruit;  (8)  1  tablespoon  of  gelatin  will  stiffen  about  1 
pint  of  liquid. 

I 

Sponges  and  Bavarian  creams. 

To  make  sponges  and  Bavarian  creams,  when  the  jelly  has 
begun  to  stiffen,  beaten  whites  of  eggs  or  whipped  cream  should 
be  added,  and  the  mixture  beaten  to  a  froth.  For  a  slightly  dif- 
ferent texture,  the  jelly  should  be  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  the 
beaten  egg-whites  or  the  whipped  cream  Hghtly  folded  in. 
The  mixture  should  then  be  turned  into  a  wet  mold  and 
chilled. 

Charlottes. 

Charlottes  are  combinations  of  cake  with  whipped  creana  or 
Bavarian  creams  or  sponges.  Thus  the  suggestions  for  making 
sponges  and  Bavarian  creams  appl}^  to  charlottes  also.  Bread 
dipped  in  melted  butter  may  be  substituted  for  the  cake.  Fruit 
sauces  may  be  used  instead  of  the  whipped  cream  or  the  gelatin 
filling;  the  dish  may  be  garnished  with  jelly,  jam,  or  nuts,  and 
served  with  a  hard  sauce. 

WHIPPED  CREAM 

In  whipping  cream,  only  cream  containing  at  least  20  per 
cent  of  butter-fat  should  be  used,  and  25  to  40  per  cent  is  better. 
Cream  from  twelve  to  twenty-four  hours  old  is  best  to  use  in 
order  that  a  small  amount  of  lactic  acid  may  have  developed. 
The  cream  should  be  held  at  as  low  a  temperature  as  possible, 
35°  to  45°  F.,  for  two  hours  before  whipping  and  should  be 
whipped  in  a  cool  room,  and  cold  utensils  used. 

The  use  of  viscogen  makes  it  possible  to  whip  fresher,  thin- 
ner, or  warmer  cream  than  is  otherwise  advisable.  It  is  made  of 
parts  of  sugar,  5  parts  of  water,  and  ^/lo  part  of  milk  of  lime. 
The  ingredients  are  mixed  thoroughly  and  allowed  to  stand  24 
hours  before  being  used.  The  mixture  is  used  in  the  pro- 
portion of  1  teaspoonful  to  2  cups  of  cream.  It  is  in  no  wise 
harmful. 


572  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Syllabubs  J  or  whips. 

For  syllabubs,  or  whips,  whipped  cream  should  be  flavored 
as  desired,  and  sweetened  by  adding  sifted  powdered  sugar 
gradually  in  the  proportion  of  about  3  tablespoons  of  sugar  to  1 
pint  of  cream.  It  is  then  drained  and  put  near  the  ice  until  time 
to  serve.  It  should  be  piled  Ughtly  in  a  glass  dish,  and  garnished 
with  fruits,  nuts,  or  colored  sugars. 

Cold  steamed  rice  or  dry  cake  or  cookie  crumbs  may  be  beatien 
lightly  into  the  whipped  cream,  and  the  dish  may  be  garnished 
with  a  red  cherry  or  red  jelly. 

JUNKET 

One  junket  tablet  will  stiffen  about  1  quart  of  milk.  (1)  Crush  the 
tablet  and  dissolve  it  in  cold  milk;  (2)  heat  the  remaining  milk,  stirring  it 
constantly,  to  about  100°  F.;  a  simple  test  for  this  temperature,  which  is 
about  that  of  the  body,  is  to  let  a  drop  of  milk  fall  on  the  inside  of  the 
wrist  and  if  there  is  no  sensation  of  heat  or  cold,  the  temperature  of  the 
milk  about  corresponds  with  that  of  the  body;  (3)  add  the  sugar,  the 
flavoring,  and  the  dissolved  junket  tablet,  stirring  the  mixture  well; 
(4)  turn  the  mixture  into  wet  molds,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  until 
it  stiffens,  then  chill  it.  Junket  may  be  served  with  whipped  cream,  fruit, 
or  fruit  sauces,  nuts,  or  preserved  ginger. 

FROZEN  DESSERTS 

Water  ices. 

Water  ices  are  fruit  juices  sweetened,  diluted  with  water, 
and  frozen. 

Frapp  es, 

Frappes  are  ices  made  of  fruit  juice,  water,  and  sugar,  frozen 
to  the  consistency  of  mush. 

Sherbets, 

Sherbets  are  water  ices  to  which  have  been  added  a  small 
quantity  of  dissolved  gelatin  or  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  They 
may  be  made  of  one  fruit  juice  or  a  combination.  The  juice 
of  one  lemon  is  generally  added  to  each  quart  of  the  mixture 
in  order  to  accentuate  the  flavor  of  the  other  fruit.  Sometimes 
no  water  is  added  to  the  fruit  juice. 


DESSERTS 


573 


Sorbets. 

Sorbets  are  a  kind  of  frozen  punch  or  water  ice  to  which 
various  kinds  of  fruit  are  added. 

Granites. 

Granites  are  water  ices  to  which  fruit  is  added  after  the  freez- 
ing. 

Ice  creams."^ 

Plain  ice  cream  is  generally  made  of  thin  cream,  scalded  or 
not,  as  desired,  sweetened,  flavored,  and  frozen.  Whole  eggs 
or  yolks  of  eggs  may  be  used  to  make  a  custard  which  is  then 
frozen.  When  cream  is  not  plentiful,  four  parts  of  milk  and  one 
part  of  double  cream  may  be  jellied  with  junket  tablets  (page  572) 
and  used.  Eggs  may  be  used  with  skim-milk  in  place  of  cream. 
Arrowroot,  cornstarch,  or  flour  is  sometimes  used  in  place  of 
some  of  the  eggs.  It  should  be  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk  or 
cream,  and  cooked  for  10  minutes,  being  stirred  constantly, 
before  being  added  to  the  eggs  and  sugar.  If  fruit  is  used,  it 
should  be  crushed,  mixed  with  the  necessary  amount  of  sugar, 
preferably  in  the  form  of  sirup,  and  allowed  to  stand  for  1  hour. 
It  is  then  added  to  the  partly  frozen  cream.  Strawberries  and 
peaches  may  be  put  through  a  potato  ricer.  Berries,  like  rasp- 
berries, should  be  passed  through  a  fine  sieve.  Fruit  flavors 
are  considered  by  some  persons  not  to  harmonize  well  with 
eggs,  and  are  therefore  not  used  in  custard  creams. 

For  each  quart  of  the  mixture  to  be  frozen,  any  of  the  fol- 
lowing flavorings  may  be  used:  IJ^  squares  Baker's  chocolate; 
14  cup  prepared  cocoa;  1  tablespoon  vanilla;  2  cups  orange 
juice;  Vs  quart  can  of  pineapple. 

A  smooth,  velvety  texture  is  desired  in  ice  creams,  rather 
than  a  coarse-grained  mass  of  crystals.  Texture  is  influenced 
by:  (1)  The  amount  of  butter-fat  present.  The  richer  the 
cream,  the  smoother  is  the  product.  (2)  The  rapidity  of  freez- 
ing.  If  frozen  rapidly,  the  cream  will  be  coarse  and  full  of  large 

*  For  further  information  on  experiments  in  freezing  ice  cream,  see 
Bull.  155,  Vt.  Exp.  Sta. 


574 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


water  crystals.  (3)  The  amount  of  whipping  during  freezing; 
The  air  thus  incorporated  produces  a  hght,  smooth,  cushiony 
consistency.  In  properly  made  ice  cream,  the  water  freezes 
in  very  fine  crystals  interspersed  with  minute  bubbles  of  air. 
It  should  contain  from  33  to  40  per  cent  of  air.  (4)  The  age  of 
the  cream.  Cream  fresh  from  the  separator  or  pasteurizer 
produces  a  coarse-grained  ice  cream.  Cream  that  is  12 
hours  old,  held  at  32-35°  F.,  makes  a  smooth  mixture  when 
frozen. 

Frozen  puddings. 

Frozen  puddings  are  ice  creams  made  of  thin  cream  or  thin 
cream  and  egg-yolks,  highly  flavored  and  containing  many 
preserved  fruits  and  nuts.  They  are  generally  molded  in  melon 
molds,  lined  with  lady-fingers. 

Mousses. 

A  mousse  may  be  made  in  either  of  two  ways :  (1)  heavy  cream 
may  be  beaten  until  stiff,  drained,  sweetened,  and  flavored; 
or  (2)  the  whip  from  thin  cream  may  be  folded  into  a  mixture 
stiffened  with  gelatin.  Mousses  are  placed  in  molds,  and  packed 
for  3  hours  in  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt.  Sherbets  are  fre- 
quently combined  with  them  either  as  the  lining  of  the  mold 
or  as  a  layer  of  fiUing. 

Parfaits,  biscuits,  and  souffles. 

For  a  parfait,  biscuit,  or  souffle,  yolks  of  eggs  are  cooked  with 
sirup  to  a  thick  smooth  cream.  The  mixture  is  then  flavored 
and  beaten  until  it  is  cold  and  light,  and  mixed  with  drained 
whipped  cream.  It  is  then  poured  into  a  mold  and  packed  in 
ice  and  salt  for  3  or  4  hours  according  to  the  size  of  the  mold. 
Parfaits  are  not  solid  like  custard  ice  creams;  they  have  a 
spongy  texture.  They  should  not  be  frozen  too  hard. 

Biscuits  take  their  name  from  their  size,  being  in  reality 
parfaits  frozen  in  individual  forms. 

Souffles  are  parfaits  reinforced  with  gelatin  and  a  larger  pro- 
portion of  liquid  and  frozen  in  souffle  dishes. 


DESSERTS 


Freezing. 

(1)  Put  the  ice  in  a  strong  cloth  or  bag,  and  with  a  wooden  mallet  pound 
it  fairly  fine.   The  finer  the  ice,  the  more  quickly  will  the  mixture  freeze. 
Snow  may  be  used  instead  of  ice.    (2)  Use  coarse  salt  and  ice  in  the  pro- 
portion of:  1  part  of  salt  to  1  part  of  ice,  for  mousse  and  parfait;  1  part  of 
salt  to  from  1  to  3  parts  of  ice  for  frappe  and  ice;  1  part  of  £alt  to  from  1  to 
15  parts  of  ice  for  ice  cream.   The  larger  the  proportion  of  ice  to  salt,  the 
I   slower  will  be  the  freezing  and  the  finer  the  grain.   Fine  salt  dissolves  more 
'   readily  than  coarse,  and  consequently  produces  a  lower  temperature  more 
quickly;  but  it  tends  to  form  crusts  and  bridges  which  prevent  the  ice 
from  settling  in  place  and  fitting  around  the  freezer.    (3)  Fill  the  can  two- 
thirds  full.    (4)  Place  the  can,  which  has  been  washed  with  soap  and 
water  scalded,  and  cooled,  in  the  freezer,  and  adjust  the  crank.   Turn  the 
crank  to  see  that  it  is  in  place.    (5)  Place  the  freezer  in  a  dishpan,  and 
I  set  the  dishpan  on  a  towel  to  keep  it  from  slipping  and  to  deaden  the  sound. 
I  Spread  papers  on  the  floor  to  protect  it  from  ice  and  salt  that  may  be 
i  dropped.    (6)  Fill  the  freezer  half  full  of  ice,  and  add  a  layer  of  salt,  using 
I  a  long-handled  spoon.   Add  more  ice  and  more  salt  in  layers,  placing  salt 
near  the  top  so  that  on  dissolving  it  may  trickle  over  the  ice.    If  snow 
is  used,  pour  in  1  cup  of  water  after  the  freezer  is  packed.    (7)  Turn  the 
crank  until  the  mixture  is  stiff.   In  freezing  water  ices  it  is  considered  ad- 
i  visable  by  some  persons  to  turn  the  crank  for  5  minutes,  to  stop  for  5 
minutes,  to  turn  it  again  for  5  minutes,  and  to  continue  in  this  way  until 
the  freezing  is  completed.    Do  not  draw  off  the  salt  water  while  freezing 
the  mixture  unless  the  salt  water  stands  so  high  that  there  is  danger  of 
its  getting  in  the  can. 

Packing. 

(1)  When  the  mixture  is  frozen,  take  off  the  crank;  (2)  wipe  the  lid  of 
the  can  carefully,  and  make  sure  that  the  ice  and  salt  are  well  below  the 
lid;  (3)  lift  off  the  lid  and  take  out  the  paddle;  (4)  fruit  or  whipped  cream 
1  should  be  added  at  this  time  if  they  are  to  be  used;  (5)  with  a  spoon  or 
!  spatula,  pack  down  the  cream,  a  potato-masher  being  used  to  make  the 
!  mass  compact;  (6)  replace  the  lid  and  put  a  cork  in  the  hole;  (7)  draw  off 
I  the  water;  (8)  pack  the  can  as  described  for  freezing;  (9)  cover  the  freezer 
:  with  a  heavy  cloth,  and  let  it  stand  from  1  to  3  hours  before  using  if  pos- 
I  sible,  to  develop  the  flavor;  (10)  look  at  it  occasionally  to  see  that  the 
1  water  does  not  rise  above  the  opening.  If  properly  watched  and  repacked, 
I  the  cream  can  be  kept  for  any  reasonable  length  of  time. 


CHAPTER  XXXIII 


SUGAR  COOKERY* 

By  Mary  F.  Henry 

Success  in  sugar  cookery,  as  in  all  other  cookery,  requires 
intelligent  work  and  to  work  intelligently  means  that  one  must 
understand  the  nature  of  the  materials  used,  the  changes  that 
occur  during  the  process  of  cooking,  and  the  conditions  that 
bring  about  desirable,  and  prevent  undesirable,  changes.  The 
behavior  of  sugar  under  different  conditions  largely  determines 
the  quality  of  the  product. 

Kinds  of  sugar. 

While  there  are  many  different  kinds  of  sugar,  those  of  in- 
terest to  the  housekeeper  are  of  two  classes :  in  the  one  group  are 
the  familiar  granulated  cane  or  beet  sugar,  maple  sugar,  and 
brown  sugar;  in  the  other  is  glucose,  commonly  known  in  the 
form  of  a  clear,  sticky  sirup.  Corn  sirup  consists  of  a  mixture  of 
glucose  with  dextrines  and  other  substances.  Molasses  con- 
tains large  amounts  of  cane  sugar.  These  two  classes  of  sugar 
differ  greatly  in  characteristics.  Sugars  belonging  to  the  first 
class  are  very  sweet  and  crystallize  in  large  crystals,  with  which 
all  are  familiar;  glucose  is  less  sweet,  and  either  crystallizes  less 
easily  in  much  finer  crystals  or  remains  as  a  heavy  sirup  of 
creamy  consistency.  In  certain  kinds  of  candy,  this  creamy 
texture  is  one  of  the  requisites.  The  fact  that  in  the  process  of 
cooking  it  is  possible  to  change  a  part  of  the  crystalline  sugar 
into  glucose  with  its  finer  texture  is  one  of  the  chief  factors  in 
making  candy.  The  whole  problem  of  preventing  the  formation 
of  the  undesirable  granules,  or  crystals,  is  simply  to  convert 
some  of  the  crystalline  sugar  to  glucose  and  to  avoid  conditions 
that  may  cause  candy  to  grain. 

*  Keeping  Christmas.  Cornell  Reading-Course  for  the  Farm  Home, 
Bull.  97. 

576 


SUGAR  COOKERY 


577 


How  to  make  candij  fine-grained. 

While  the  simple  boiling  of  sugar  brings  about  to  some  extent 
this  desired  change  of  crystalline  sugar  to  glucose,  the  addition 
of  a  little  acid,  such  as  cream-of-tartar,  greatly  hastens  the  proc- 
ess. It  is  possible  to  get  the  same  result  by  substituting  glucose 
for  a  part  of  the  sugar  in  the  first  place. 

Overcooking,  that  is,  cooking  beyond  the  correct  temperature, 
causes  graining,  for  glucose  contains  more  water  than  does 
crystalline  sugar,  and  overcooking  drives  off  the  water  and  forces 
the  glucose  to  go  back  to  sugar. 

A  crystal  of  sugar  falling  into  the  solution  may  cause  the  whole 
mass  to  crystallize.  Hence  care  must  be  taken  not  to  allow 
crystals  to  be  carried  up  to  the  side  of  the  pan  and  fall  back  into 
the  mixture.  Washing  down  these  crystals  carefully  with  a 
swab  prevents  trouble  from  this  source. 

Stirring  the  mixture  while  it  is  cooking  may  cause  crystalliza- 
tion, especially  in  the  case  of  fondant,  which  contains  only  sugar 
and  water.  When  milk  is  used,  it  is  necessary  to  stir  the  mix- 
ture occasionally  to  prevent  its  sticking  to  the  pan.  There  is  not 
the  danger,  however,  of  graining  in  this  case,  for  milk  and  cream 
both  tend  to  prevent  crystallization.  Stirring  the  mixture  while 
it  is  hot  or  cooling  it  too  suddenly  may  cause  crystallization. 

Temperature. 

Another  problem  is  one  that  concerns  the  length  of  time  for 
cooking  sugar  mixtures.  It  is  well  known  that  when  sugar  is 
heated  with  water  a  sirup  is  formed.  If  the  heating  process  is 
continued,  water  is  driven  off  as  steam,  and  the  sirup  becomes 
thicker,  or  more  concentrated.  As  the  concentration  increases, 
the  temperature  rises. 

The  stage  of  concentration  to  which  the  solution  is  to  be 
boiled  depends  on  the  kind  of  product  that  is  to  be  made.  The 
terms  thread,  soft  ball,  hard  ball,  crack,  hard  crack,  and  caramel 
are  used  to  distinguish  the  different  stages.  While  the  ordinary 
method  used  by  amateurs  for  testing  candy  consists  in  dropping 
a  little  of  the  solution  into  cold  water,  more  uniform  and  accurate 
results  may  be  obtained  by  the  use  of  a  thermometer.   A  glass 


578 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


thermometer  may  be  bought  at  a  drug  store  for  about  $1.25. 
In  using  a  thermometer,  care  should  be  taken  that  the  bulb  is 
entirely  covered  by  the  sirup  and  that  it  does  not  reach  the 
bottom  of  the  kettle;  if  the  bulb  is  exposed  to  the  air  or  touches 
the  metal  of  the  pan,  the  registered  temperature  is  lower  in  the 
one  case  and  higher  in  the  other  than  is  the  actual  temperature 
of  the  sirup. 

In  the  absence  of  a  thermometer,  however,  the  test  already 
mentioned,  dropping  a  little  of  the  boiling  sirup  into  cold  water, 
may  be  used  with  comparatively  good  results.  The  following 
table  gives  the  different  stages  of  concentration,  the  correspond- 
ing temperatures,  and  the  tests  that  may  be  used  to  determine 
the  condition  of  the  sirup.  The  temperatures  refer  to  a  sirup 
made  from  cane  sugar.  When  glucose  or  corn  sirup  is  used  in 
part,  the  same  consistencies  are  reached  at  lower  temperatures. 


TABLE  LII. — Determination  of  Stages  in  Sugar  Cookery 


Stage 

Temperai 

ure 

Test 

Thread  

230° 

F. 

Sirup  forms  a  thread  when  dropped  from 

110° 

C. 

a  spoon 

Soft  ball  

236° 

F. 

Sirup  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into 

113° 

C. 

cold  water 

Hard  ball 

252° 

F. 

Sirup  forms  a  hard  ball  when  dropped  into 

122° 

C. 

cold  water 

Crack  

270° 

F. 

Sirup  becomes  brittle  when  dropped  into 

132° 

C. 

cold  water 

Hard  crack .... 

293° 

F. 

Sirup  becomes  very  brittle  when  dropped 

145° 

C. 

into  cold  water 

Caramel  

310°  + 

F. 

Sirup  changes  color  and  becomes  very  hard 

154°  + 

C. 

and  brittle  when  cool 

Utensils. 

Granite  utensils  usually  give  better  results  than  do  those  of 
aluminum  or  tin,  because  granite  ware  is  not  so  good  a  conductor 
of  heat,  and  hence  the  temperature  is  more  easily  regulated. 

Wooden  spoons  are  preferable  to  metal  ones,  for  wood  does 
not  conduct  heat  as  does  metal.  Moreover,  the  sirup  does  not 
tend  to  stick  to  wood  as  much  as  to  metal. 


CHAPTER  XXXIV 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 

If  foods  are  to  be  kept  successfully  from  one  season  to  another, 
it  is  necessary  to  have  as  nearly  as  possible  exact  knowledge  of 
the  conditions  that  interfere  with  their  preservation.  This 
statement  refers  not  only  to  fruits  and  vegetables  that  are 
pickled,  preserved  with  sugar,  or  put  up  in  cans,  but  to  other 
foods,  such  as  apples,  winter  vegetables,  and  eggs — foods  that 
do  not  need  to  be  kept  indefinitely  but  that  should  be  given  a 
longer  season  of  usefulness. 

There  are  two  main  causes  for  the  spoiUng  of  foods:  first,  the 
presence  of  small  living  organisms  that  feed  on  the  foods  and 
change  them  so  that  they  may  cease  to  be  desirable  and  may 
even  become  harmful;  second,  the  normal  occurrence  in  such 
foods  as  fruits,  vegetables,  eggs,  meat,  and  seeds  of  all  plants, 
of  certain  substances  which,  although  not  ahve,  are  the  products 
of  living  things  and  have  the  power  of  causing  fruit  to  ripen, 
seeds  to  start  growing,  meat  to  soften,  and  all  finally  to  decay. 

Any  food  in  which  the  fife  processes  are  still  going  on  is  sub- 
ject to  either  of  the  types  of  changes  just  described.  Yeast 
plants  or  bacteria  may  live  on  foods  and  cause  them  to  spoil. 
Bacteria,  yeasts,  and  molds  grow  everywhere — on  the  ground,  in 
water,  and  in  air.  All  micro-organisms  need  warmth,  moisture, 
food,  and  oxygen  for  growth.  Warmth,  moisture,  light,  and 
oxygen  also  favor  the  maturing,  ripening,  and  decay  changes 
occurring  in  eggs,  meat,  fresh  fruits,  and  vegetables. 

If  food  is  to  be  kept  for  any  length  of  time,  it  is  necessary  to 
retard  or  prevent  natural  ripening  or  developing  processes  and 
to  protect  the  food  from  invasion  by  invisible  as  well  as  visible 
enemies.  Methods  of  food  preservation  may  be  grouped  as 
follows:  (1)  By  means  of  low  temperature;  (2)  the  removal  of 
moisture;  (3)  preservatives;  (4)  high  temperature. 

579 


580 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


A  temperature  even  as  low  as  the  freezing  point  of  water  may 
not  kill  micro-organisms  nor  destroy  in  such  foods  as  fruits  and 
vegetables  the  substances  that  ripen  and  mature  them.  Such 
a  temperature  does,  however,  retard  or  check  all  life  processes, 
and  therefore  its  use  is  a  highly  efficient  method  of  keeping  foods 
during  limited  periods  of  time.  Refrigeration  and  cold  storage 
on  a  commercial  scale  are  not  discussed  here,  but  storage  at 
moderately  low  temperatures  that  is  practicable  for  the  average 
home  is  described. 

When  foods  are  dried  until  their  water-content  is  reduced 
below  20  per  cent,  micro-organisms  are  not  likely  to  develop  in 
them.  When  foods  are  dried,  the  micro-organisms  originally 
present  are  not  destroyed,  but  their  growth  and  multiplication 
are  checked.  If  moisture  is  supplied,  active  life  quickly  begins 
again. 

The  word  preservative  covers  a  wide  range  of  substances  that 
are  used  in  food  preservation  to  retard  or  prevent  the  growth 
of  micro-organisms.  Foods  containing  any  substance  sufficiently 
active  to  destroy  or  check  the  growth  of  micro-organisms  should 
be  at  least  thoroughly  questioned  before  being  used.  Preserv- 
ative substances  may  be  divided  into  three  classes:  (1)  those 
known  to  be  harmless,  such  as  sugar,  salt,  vinegar,  and  spices; 
(2)  those  about  which  there  is  doubt,  such  as  saltpeter,  smoke, 
and  liquid  smoke;  (3)  those  known  to  be  harmful,  such  as  boric 
acid  and  the  borates,  salicylic  acid  and  the  salicylates,  benzoic 
acid  and  the  benzoates,  sulfurous  acid  and  the  sulfites,  and 
formaldehyde. 

The  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  has  issued  the 
following  statement  concerning  the  use  of  canning  powders. 
The  possibility  of  harmful  effects  from  these  substances  is  still  j 
not  fully  recognized  by  many  housekeepers. 

''The  attention  of  the  Department  of  Agriculture  has  recently  been 
called  to  the  widespread  use,  especially  in  rural  communities,  of  salicylic 
acid  in  putting  up  preserves.  The  Department  is  aware  that  this  practice 
is  not  confined  to  salicylic  acid  imder  its  own  name  alone,  but  that  large 
quantities  of  this  acid,  and  of  boric  acid  as  well,  are  sold  under  fanciful 
names  as  preserving  powders  or  canning  compounds  at  prices  which  are 
much  in  excess  of  their  real  value.  In  the  directions  for  use,  the  housewife 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


581 


is  told  to  fill  the  jar  with  the  fruit  or  vegetables,  cover  with  water,  and 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  the  powder.  It  is  true  that  these  powders  may  pre- 
vent the  decay  of  the  fruit  or  vegetable,  but  they  also  encourage  uncleanly 
or  careless  work,  and  their  excessive  use  may  be  attended  with  very  serious 
effects  on  the  health.  Salicylic  acid  is  a  medicine  of  the  greatest  value  in 
acute  articular  rheumatism  and  certain  other  diseases.  It  is  well  known 
as  a  poisonous  substance,  and  one  of  the  evils  which  may  accompany  its 
use  is  derangement  of  the  digestion.  It  is  therefore  plain  that  its  extensive 
use  in  food  may  lead  to  disturbance  of  digestion  and  of  health.  It  is  entirely 
practicable  to  put  up  both  fruits  and  vegetables  in  such  a  manner  that 
they  will  keep  indefinitely  by  sterilizing  the  products  by  means  of  heat, 
and  there  is  no  excuse  for  running  any  risk  by  the  use  of  preserving 
powders." 

A  temperature  as  high  as  that  of  boiHng  water  is  destructive 
to  the  vitality  of  both  micro-organisms  and  the  foods  on  which 
they  may  occur.   This  fact  is  the  corner  stone  of  canning. 

PRESERVATION  OF  FOOD  BY  LOW  TEMPERATURES 

Preservation  of  eggs.^ 

Eggs  should  be  preserved  during  March,  April,  May,  and 
June,  when  the  production  is  greatest  and  the  price  lowest. 
Spring  eggs  will  keep  better  than  summer  or  fall  eggs.  Only 
absolutely  fresh  eggs  should  be  preserved  (see  page  534).  In- 
fertile eggs  are  better  than  fertile  ones  for  preserving.  Dirty 
eggs  or  eggs  that  have  been  washed  should  not  be  preserved. 

Of  the  many  ways  of  preserving  eggs  in  the  household,  a 
water-glass  solution  seems  to  give  the  best  results.  Earthen- 
ware jars  are  the  most  suitable  vessels  to  use.  Danger  of  loss 
through  the  presence  of  one  bad  egg  is  reduced  by  using  several 
small  instead  of  one  large  vessel.  Eggs  should  not  be  left  in 
the  preservative  longer  than  one  year.  The  same  liquid  pre- 
servative should  not  be  used  more  than  one  year.  If  the  solu- 
tion evaporates  and  becomes  thick  and  jelly-like,  water  should 
be  added.  Eggs  should  be  rinsed  in  clear  water  when  they  are 
taken  from  the  water-glass  solution.  They  will  generally  re- 
main good  for  about  two  weeks  after  being  removed  from  the 

*  Condensed  from  Preservation  of  Eggs,  by  Earl  W.  Benjamin  in  Cornell 
Reading-Course  for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  21 


582  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


preservative,  but  the  sooner  they  are  used,  the  better.  If  it 
is  desired  to  boil  them,  a  small  hole  should  be  pricked  through 
the  large  end  of  the  shell  before  they  are  placed  in  the  water, 
in  order  to  prevent  their  breaking  when  heated. 

To  use  water-glass  solution  (for  thirty  dozen  eggs) : 
(1)  Mix  thoroughly  Ij^  quarts  of  commercial  water-glass  solution  with 
18  quarts  of  boiled  water;  (2)  pack  clean  eggs  into  clean  earthenware  jars  j 
or  tight  odorless  tubs,  two  6-gallon,  or  three  4-gallon  jars  being  sufficient  ' 
for  preserving  thirty  dozen  eggs;  (3)  cover  the  eggs  with  the  water-glass 
mixture,  and  if  the  solution  does  not  cover  the  eggs  at  least  2  inches,  as 
much  as  5  additional  quarts  of  water  may  be  added  for  each  IJ/^  quarts 
of  commercial  water-glass  solution  used;  (4)  cover  the  jars  to  prevent 
evaporation;  (5)  keep  the  eggs  in  a  cool  dark  place. 

Preservation  ofhutter  (E.  S.  Guthrie). 

Butter  can  be  laid  down  during  the  summer  season  to  give  a  j 
satisfactory  supply  for  winter  use.  Sweet  cream  of  good  quality  { 
should  be  used.  It  should  be  pasteurized  by  keeping  the  con-  | 
tainer  in  hot  water  for  30  minutes  at  a  temperature  of  145°  F. 
The  cream  should  be  stirred  frequently  during  the  process.  It 
should  then  be  cooled  to  approximately  50°  F.  It  is  important 
that  the  butter  should  be  made  from  sweet  cream  rather  than 
from  sour  cream,  since  the  keeping  quality  of  sweet-cream  butter 
is  better.  This  cream  should  be  churned  in  the  usual  way,  and 
the  butter  should  contain  the  usual  amount  of  salt.  It  may  be 
packed  solid  in  stone  jars,  or  it  may  be  made  into  pound  prints 
and  packed  in  jars,  either  with  or  without  the  regular  parch- 
ment paper  wrappers.  The  jars  should  be  thoroughly  scalded 
and  free  from  taint  or  odors.  The  butter  should  then  be  com- 
pletely covered  with  a  salt  solution  in  which  the  amount  of  salt 
used  is  about  one-fourth  the  weight  of  the  water.  A  large 
plate  or  a  header  made  of  some  odorless  wood  should  be  placed 
on  the  butter.  Clean  stones  or  bricks  may  be  used  to  weight 
it.  The  butter  must  be  kept  covered  with  the  brine  solution. 
Butter  packed  in  this  way  and  stored  in  a  cool  cellar  should  keep 
all  winter. 

Persons  who  are  not  making  their  own  butter  can  secure  satis- 
factory results  by  getting  fresh  butter  made  from  sweet  cream 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


583 


and  packing  it  as  described.  Such  butter  may  be  obtained  of 
near-by  creameries  in  wholesale  lots.  The  best  time  to  buy  is 
from  the  middle  of  May  to  the  middle  of  July. 

Storage  of  fruit. 

Fruit  should  be  picked  carefully  and  without  bruising,  and 
should  be  placed  in  storage  as  soon  as  possible.  It  may  be 
packed  in  barrels  or  boxes  or 
placed  in  open  trays.  When 
the  latter  method  is  used  and  it 
is  desired  to  keep  the  fruit  in 
particularly  fine  condition,  the 
specimens  should  not  be  allowed 
to  touch  one  another.  Apples 
that  are  to  be  kept  for  a  con- 
siderable time,  whether  ex- 
posed or  in  packages,  should 
be  wrapped  separately.  Light 
manila  wrappers,  10  by  10 
inches,  may  be  used. 

Fruit  stored  in  the  cellar  fre- 
quently does  not  keep  well; 
it  either  shrivels  or  becomes 
spongy  and  decays.  This  fault, 
which  often  lies  in  the  storage 
room,  may  be  corrected  wholly 
or  in  part.   A  fruit  cellar  should 

be  well  ventilated.    The  prin-  I21.-Cellar  ventilation. 

ciple  01  physics  that  warm  air 

rises  and  cool  air  settles,  is  applicable  here.  Warm  air  should 
be  permitted  to  pass  out  at  the  top  of  the  room  through  vent- 
ilators, and  cool'  air  from  outside  should  be  admitted  to  the 
room  at  the  bottom  (Fig.  121).  In  a  cellar  this  can  be  accom- 
plished by  means  of  a  shaft  leading  down  the  wall  from  a 
window  and  opening  near  the  floor.  A  few  windows  at  the 
top  of  the  wall  constitute  the  system  of  ventilation  for  most 
*  C.  S.  Wilson,  Cornell  Reading-Course  for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  21. 


584 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


farm  cellars.  Although  this  arrangement  is  accepted  as  suf- 
ficient and  in  many  cases  gives  fairly  good  satisfaction,  the 
temperature  cannot  be  kept  so  nearly  uniform  and  correct  as 
when  intake  shafts  are  used. 

A  uniform  temperature  of  50°  F.  in  the  cellar  will  keep  fruit  in 
good  condition  for  months.  The  ideal  temperature  is  about 
31°  or  32°  F.,  but  this  cannot  usually  be  maintained  in  a  cellar. 
The  temperature  should  not  be  permitted  to  fluctuate.  Fruit 
that  is  kept  at  34°  F.  during  the  night  and  at  60°  F.  during  the 
day  will  soon  decay.  In  the  farm  cellar,  uniformity  of  temper- 
ature is  maintained  by  means  of  the  ventilation,  which  should 
be  watched  very  closely.  In  cellars  where  it  is  impossible  to  con- 
Atrol  the  temperature  and  humidity  as  desired,  the  fruit  may  be 
wrapped  in  paper  and  packed  in  hardwood  sawdust. 

Fruit  may  also  be  stored  in  pits.  This  method  is  described  by 
L.  H.  Bailey  as  follows:  ''Many  apples,  particularly  russets  and 
other  firm  varieties,  keep  well  when  buried  after  the  manner 
of  pitting  potatoes.  Sometimes,  however,  they  taste  of  the 
earth.  This  may  be  prevented  by  setting  a  ridge-pole  over  the 
pile  of  apples  in  forked  sticks,  and  making  a  roof  of  boards  in 
such  a  way  that  there  will  be  an  air  space  over  the  fruit.  Then 
cover  the  boards  with  straw  and  earth.  Apples  seldom  keep 
well  after  removal  from  a  pit  in  spring.'' 

Storage  of  vegetables. 

Storage  requirements  for  different  vegetables  vary  widely. 
Some  vegetables  are  easily  kept.  If  the  parsnip  is  merely  left 
in  the  ground,  oncoming  spring  will  find  it  not  only  well  pre- 
served but  actually  improved  in  quality.  On  the  other  hand, 
the  sweet  potato  and  the  squash  are  kept  successfully  only 
when  the  temperature  is  high  and  uniform  and  the  humidity  is 
low. 

Certain  fundamental  principles  apply  to  the  storage  of  all 
sorts  of  vegetables  under  all  conditions.  The  important  factors 
to  consider  are  temperature,  moisture,  and  ventilation.  A 
temperature  that  is  too  high  favors  decomposition;  a  tempera- 

*  Paul  Work.    Cornell  Reading-Course  for  the  Farm  Home,  Bull.  21. 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


585 


ture  that  is  too  low  causes  freezing,  with  the  subsequent  break- 
ing down  of  vegetable  tissue.  A  dry  atmosphere  causes  fruits 
and  vegetables  to  dry  out  and  shrivel;  while  undue  moisture, 
especially  when  combined  with  high  temperature,  favors  the 
growth  of  destructive  fungous  and  mold  organisms.  Ventila- 
tion is  not  only  a  means  of  regulating  these  conditions,  but  it  is 
also  important  in  itself  in  removing  gaseous  products  that  may 
be  more  or  less  injurious. 

Proper  condition  of  the  produce  is  essential  for  successful 
storage.  Vegetables  should  be  nearly  mature  when  stored,  but 
over-ripeness  is  to  be  avoided,  as  it  favors  early  decay.  Ripen- 
ing processes  continue,  though  slowly,  after  storage,  and  due 
allowances  must  be  made  for  these  in  determining  the  maturity 
of  the  vegetable  to  be  stored.  Only  the  very  finest  specimens 
should  be  selected — those  that  are  firm  and  of  good  size  and 
shape.  It  is  at  injured  spots  that  decay  begins,  and  even  bruises 
that  can  be  found  only  by  careful  examination  are  serious;  hence 
the  necessity  for  the  greatest  care. 

There  are  wide  differences  among  varieties  of  vegetables  in 
their  adaptabiUty  to  storage.  In  general,  the  late-maturing 
sorts  are  the  most  suitable. 

Man}^  methods  of  providing  the  conditions  necessary  for  suc- 
cessful storage  have  been  devised.  The  first  place  to  suggest 
itself  is  the  basement  of  house,  barn,  or  outbuilding.  The  house 
cellar,  however,  is  likely  to  be  too  warm  and  dry,  particularly 
if  there  is  a  furnace  in  it.  It  is  likewise  undesirable  to  have  a 
large  amount  of  vegetable  matter  beneath  the  dwelling.  How- 
ever, these  objections  may  be  overcome  partly.  Small  quanti- 
ties of  fruits  or  vegetables  may  be  stored  in  a  corner  of  the  cellar 
away  from  the  furnace,  and  may  be  protected  from  drying  out 
by  moss  or  by  soil,  preferably  of  sandy  type.  If  a  large  quantity 
is  to  be  kept,  a  separate  compartment  may  be  boarded  off  by  a 
double  partition  filled  with  some  nonconductor  of  heat,  such  as 
dry  sawdust.  This  compartment  should  be  ceiled,  and  should 
be  provided  with  ventilating  openings  or  flues  so  that  it  may  be 
quite  independent  of  the  remainder  of  the  house.  Vents  should 
be  arranged  at  both  ceiling  and  floor.   Since  warm  air  rises  and 


586  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


cold  air  falls,  it  is  possible  to  control  the  temperature  by  means 
of  these  vents.  While  the  weather  remains  warm  in  the  fall,  the 
flues  are  closed  during  the  day  and  opened  at  night.  When  the 
weather  becomes  more  severe,  the  plan  is  reversed,  and  the 
warmer  air  of  midday  is  admitted. 

Special  cellars  and  pits  for  storage  of  vegetables  may  be  con- 
structed at  small  cost  and  are  very  satisfactory.  A  simple  type 
is  shown  in  Fig.  122.  A  pit  1  or  2  feet  deep  is  dug  in  a  well- 
drained  spot,  and  a  foundation  wall  of  stakes  and  boards,  or, 
better,  of  concrete,  is  built  around  it.  On  this  wall,  rafters 
are  erected  for  the  support  of  roof  boards.   The  roof  is  covered 


Fig.  122. — The  storage  trench. 


with  soil  and  sod,  or  with  straw  and  a  light  covering  of  earth, 
or  with  manure.  Such  a  pit  will  last  several  years,  especially 
if  a  rot-resistant  wood,  as  the  so-called  "pecky'^  cypress,  is  used. 
With  the  specific  directions  that  are  furnished  by  cement  manu- 
facturers, concrete  work  is  within  the  range  of  any  handy  man, 
and  a  permanent  concrete  cave  or  pit  may  be  built  with  little 
expense  and  trouble.  No  matter  what  the  form  of  construction, 
one  or  two  small  ventilators  should  be  provided  at  the  top  of 
the  cave,  and  one  at  the  bottom  of  the  door.  These  should  be 
arranged  to  open  and  close. 

Burying  vegetables  is  one  of  the  easiest,  as  well  as  one  of  the 
most  successful,  methods  of  storing  them.  It  keeps  them  in 
good  condition  and  involves  no  expense.  One  objection  to  this 
method  is  that  it  is  often  difficult  or  impossible  to  get  at  the 
vegetables  at  certain  times  during  the  winter.   However,  a  con- 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


587 


siderable  quantity  may  be  taken  out  at  one  time  and  kept  in  the 
house  cellar  for  a  week  or  two.  A  site,  preferably  on  sandy  soil, 
well  drained  and  well  protected  from  surface  wash,  should  be 
chosen.  An  oblong  pit  of  the  required  size  and  about  a  foot  deep 
should  be  made.  The  bottom  of  the  pit  should  be  lined  with 
straw,  and  the  vegetables  carefully  heaped  on  it.  They  should 
then  be  covered  with  a  layer  of  leaves  and  straw  for  protection 
and  to  make  their  removal  easier.  Lastly,  soil  should  be  added 
to  a  depth  from  4  to  8  inches.  Wisps  of  straw  may  be  set  at 
intervals  in  the  peak  for  ventilation.  Great  care  must  be  taken 
early  in  the  season  not  to  cover  the  vegetables  too  closely,  as 
speedy  decay  will  result  from  heating  and  sweating.  As  the 
weather  becomes  severe,  manure  may  be  piled  on  to  give  ad- 
ditional protection. 

When  several  vegetables  are  to  be  stored,  or  when  they  are  to 
be  removed  at  different  times  during  the  winter,  it  is  well  to 
make  the  pit  very  long  and  narrow.  Earth  partitions  may  then 
be  built  in  as  the  work  progresses.  The  different  compart- 
ments may  be  marked  with  stakes.  One  compartment  can  be 
opened  without  disturbing  the  others. 

The  root  crops  require  very  simple  treatment  for  storage. 
The  tops  should  be  removed,  and  the  roots  may  be  kept  by  any 
of  the  general  methods  described. 

Cabbage  also  may  be  stored  in  any  of  the  ways  given.  Heads 
should  not  be  over-mature  and  should  remain  in  the  garden  as 
long  as  there  is  no  danger  of  severe  freezing.  They  should  be 
cut  near  the  ground,  with  most  of  the  leaves  about  them.  When 
a  quantity  is  to  be  stored,  the  trench  may  be  made  by  throwing 
furrows  on  both  sides  and  finishing  with  the  shovel.  The  heads 
are  then  laid  in  order,  perhaps  two  or  three  wide  and  two  deep. 
The  plow  may  be  used  to  begin  the  covering,  but  the  work  should 
be  completed  by  hand.  If  the  heads  are  not  mature  at  storing 
time,  they  should  be  lifted  with  the  roots  and  placed  in  a  trench, 
roots  down,  as  close  as  they  will  stand.  A  Httle  sand  should  be 
packed  about  the  roots  as  the  work  goes  on.  In  this  way  the  heads 
will  continue  growth  and  become  thoroughly  solid.  Danish  Ball 
Head  is  best  for  winter  storage  under  most  New  York  conditions. 


588 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Celery  should  be  lifted  entire  and  set  erect  in  trenches  or  pits 
with  loose  soil  about  the  roots.  In  storing  this  crop,  great 
care  must  be  taken  to  avoid  covering  too  heavily  at  first.  Giant 
Pascal  and  Winter  Queen  are  good  sorts  for  winter  use. 

Squash  requires  a  warm  place  for  storage.  A  temperature 
of  50°  F.  or  more  is  good.  Shelves  or  bins  in  a  house  or  a  dry 
cellar  are  preferable  to  burying. 

DRYING  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

Dried  products  do  not  require  expensive  containers,  and  they 
can  be  stored  almost  indefinitely  under  proper  conditions  in 
relatively  small  space.  One  hundred  pounds  of  fresh  vegetables 
may  be  reduced  to  an  average  of  ten  pounds  by  drying.  Vege- 
tables and  fruits,  if  properly  dried,  retain  much  of  their  natural 
flavor  and  food  value;  in  some  cases  they  are  more  palatable 
than  when  canned,  in  others  they  are  less  palatable.  Drying 
does  not  seem  to  injure  the  nutritive  value  of  foods. 

Early  apples,  sweet  corn,  carrots,  partly  ripened  lima  beans, 
string  beans,  v/ell-matured  peas,  sweet  potatoes,  certain  types  of 
squash,  pumpkins,  and  some  of  the  berries  lend  themselves 
particularly  well  to  drying,  either  in  small  quantities  for  home 
consumption  or  in  larger  quantities  for  sale.  Blackcap,  purple- 
cane,  and  in  some  cases  red  raspberries  make  good  dried  prod- 
ucts. Blackberries  also  may  be  dried,  but  the  results  are  not 
so  good  as  with  raspberries.  Prunes,  apricots,  peaches,  any  of 
the  sweet  varieties  of  pears,  strawberries,  sweet  cherries,  and 
in  some  cases  sour,  are  also  successfully  dried,  though  these 
fruits  may  usually  be  sold  in  the  fresh  state  to  commercial  firms 
at  a  reasonable  profit. 

Proper  ventilation  that  allows  for  a  free  circulation  of  dry  air 
is  more  important  than  heat  in  drying  foods.  For  example, 
an  electric  fan  placed  before  a  drier  may  accomplish  excellent 
results  without  the  aid  of  heat.  However,  the  use  of  heat  is  more 
practicable  in  most  homes. 

The  temperature  for  drying  should  be  rather  low  to  prevent 
scorching,  but  the  more  quickly  the  food  is  dried,  the  better 
will  be  the  color  and  the  flavor.   The  temperature  of  the  drier 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


589 


cannot  be  determined  very  accurately  except  by  using  a  ther- 
mometer. An  oven  thermometer  or  a  chemical  thermometer 
may  be  suspended  in  the  oven  or  the  drier.  The  greatest  care 
should  be  given  to  the  regulation  of  the  heat,  because  the 
temperature  in  the  drier  may  rise  rather  quickly,  and  the 
product  may  scorch.  The  food  should  be  stirred  from  time 
to  time  both  to  prevent  scorching  and  to  obtain  a  uniform 
product. 

In  climates  where  successive  sunny  days  may  be  counted  on, 
certain  foods  may  be  dried  outdoors.  If  food  is  to  be  dried  over 
a  kitchen  stove  or-  outdoors,  it  should  be  carefully  protected 
from  dust  and  from  flies.  Coarse  cheese-cloth  may  be  laid  over 
the  food  in  the  house.  If  the  food  is  outdoors,  the  covering  of 
cheese-cloth  should  be  raised  by  means  of  supports  or  racks  so 
that  it  will  not  rest  directly  on  the  food  and  thus  allow  possible 
contamination  from  flies.  Especially  in  the  case  of  food  that 
is  entirely  or  partly  dried  outdoors  and  that  is  to  be  used  without 
being  cooked,  every  precaution  should  be  taken  to  prevent 
the  spreading  of  certain  intestinal  diseases  that  may  be  carried 
by  flies. 

Equipment  for  drying. 

A  very  slow  oven  may  be  used  for  drying  fruits  and  vegetables 
spread  on  papers,  large  platters,  sheets  of  metal,  or  pieces  of 
heavy  screening  with  an  inch  or  two  turned  down  at  opposite 
ends  for  supports.  The  heat  must  be  carefully  controlled  to 
prevent  scorching.  The  oven  door  should  be  left  slightly  open 
to  allow  a  circulation  of  air  to  carry  off  the  moisture  set  free  by 
evaporation. 

Barrel  hoops  or  frames  made  of  laths  may  be  covered  with 
galvanized  iron  netting  or  with  cheese-cloth  and  suspended 
above  the  stove  by  a  rope  with  a  pulley  arrangement,  which 
makes  it  easy  to  adjust  the  trays  at  the  proper  height.  Some 
housekeepers  use  window  screens  on  bricks  as  supports.  A 
piece  of  heavy  galvanized  iron  screening  with  4  or  5  inches  on 
two  opposite  sides  bent  down  to  form  supports  is  both  simple 
and  effective.  A  sheet  of  tin  laid  over  a  dripping  pan  containing 


590  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


a  small  amount  of  hot  water  makes  a  good  substitute  for  a 
certain  type  of  commercial  drier. 

There  are  several  small  driers  on  the  market  that  give  satis- 
factory results.  They  are  of  such  size  that  they  can  be  placed  on 
the  top  of  a  kitchen  stove.  Portable  outdoor  driers  are  conven- 
ient if  much  food  is  to  be  dried.  Home-made  dry  kilns  are  used 
in  some  sections  of  the  country. 

Any  piece  of  home-made  apparatus  that  provides  means  for 
free  circulation  of  air  and  for  regulating  the  temperature  is 
likely  to  prove  satisfactory.  A  device  with  metal  sides  that  will 
confine  the  heated  air  in  a  given  channel,  during  its  upward 
course  through  the  trays  of  food,  uses  heat  economically. 

Drying  fruits. 

All  fruits  that  are  to  be  dried  should  be  well  ripened  but  not 
over-ripe. 

Fruits  that  are  dried  with  the  skins  on  should  be  dipped 
quickly,  by  means  of  a  wire  basket  or  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth,  into 
a  boiling  solution  of  lye  made  in  the  proportion  of  3^  pound  of 
concentrated  l3^e  to  8  gallons  of  water.  They  should  then  be 
rinsed  two  or  three  times  in  clear  water.  The  lye  perforates 
the  skin  and  thus  facilitates  evaporation.  Moreover,  it  de- 
stroys micro-organisms  that  might  cause  spoilage. 

Most  fruits  are  improved  by  being  dipped  into  a  thin  sirup 
before  being  dried.  If  the  fruit  is  to  be  used  in  puddings,  cakes, 
breads,  breakfast  cereals,  or  as  a  confection,  it  may  be  sprinkled 
with  sugar  before  being  dried ;  if  it  is  to  be  cooked  for  sauce,  little 
or  no  sugar  should  be  added. 

Metal  trays  for  drying  fruits  should  be  covered  with  cheese- 
cloth to  prevent  acid  action.  Wrapping  paper  may  be  used  on 
trays  in  an  oven. 

Juicy  fruits  require  more  ventilation  in  drying  than  do  such 
fruits  as  apples. 

When  fruit  is  sufficiently  dry,  it  should  be  impossible  to  press 
water  out  of  the  freshly  cut  ends  of  the  pieces.  The  natural 
grain  of  the  fruit  should  not  be  apparent  on  cut  surfaces.  The 
fruit  should  be  leathery  or  pliable,  and  not  so  dry  that  it  will 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


591 


snap  or  crackle.  In  general,  the  drier  the  fruit  is,  the  less  chance 
there  is  for  spoilage;  but  sweet  fruits  can  safely  contain  more 
moisture  than  those  with  a  low  sugar-content. 

Fruit  should  be  cooled  quickly  after  being  dried  in  order  to 
prevent  a  shriveled  and  unattractive  appearance. 

Fruit  juices  or  fruit  pulps  may  be  concentrated  by  being 
boiled  over  direct  heat  and  then  dried  in  the  top  of  a  double 
boiler,  or  in  platters  or  enamel  pans  set  in  a  moderate  oven,  or 
in  the  sunshine.  The  juice  or  pulp  is  sufficiently  concentrated 
when  on  cooling  it  makes  a  highly  glazed,  tough,  dry,  leathery 
jelly.  The  leather  may  then  be  dried  in  thin  sheets,  sprinkled 
with  granulated  sugar,  rolled  like  a  jelly-roll,  and  then  cut 
across  in  pieces,  or  it  may  be  dried  in  a  sheet  ^  inch  thick  and 
cut  in  cubes. 

Drying  vegetables. 

Equally  as  great  care  should  be  given  to  the  selection  and 
preparation  of  vegetables  for  drying  as  for  canning.  Good 
results  depend  largely  on  the  use  of  vegetables  that  are  abso- 
lutely fresh,  young,  tender,  and  perfectly  clean.  All  vegetables 
should  be  washed  and  cleaned  thoroughly  before  being  dried.  If 
steel  knives  are  used  for  paring  and  cutting  the  vegetables,  they 
should  be  kept  clean  and  bright  in  order  to  prevent  discoloration. 

After  being  cleaned  and  prepared,  the  vegetables  should  be 
blanched  as  for  canning  (pages  605  and  612  to  614)  but  not  dipped 
in  cold  water.  This  removes  the  strong  odor  and  flavor  from  cer- 
tain kinds  of  vegetables,  and  softens  and  loosens  the  fiber,  which 
allows  the  moisture  in  the  vegetables  to  evaporate  more  quickly 
and  uniformly.  Moreover,  it  quickly  coagulates  the  protein  and 
thus  helps  to  retain  the  natural  flavors.  After  being  blanched 
for  the  required  number  of  minutes,  the  vegetables  should  be 
drained  and  either  placed  between  two  towels  or  exposed  to  the 
sun  and  air  for  a  short  time  to  remove  the  surface  moisture. 

Storage  of  dried  foods. 

Dried  foods  should  always  be  stored  in  containers  that  will 
exclude  light  and  insects  and  in  a  warm  dry  place,  such  as  an 


592 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


airy  attic.  The  best  container  is  a  tin  box,  bucket,  or  can  fitted 
with  a  reasonably  tight  cover.  Perhaps  the  most  convenient  and 
cheapest  container  is  the  small  paper  bag.  Small  amounts  of 
food  should  be  put  in  each  bag.  This  will  prevent  the  opening 
of  any  dried  product  that  cannot  be  consumed  in  a  short  time. 
The  upper  part  of  the  bag  is  twisted  to  form  a  neck.  The 
neck  is  bent  over  and  tied  with  a  string.  The  entire  bag  is 
then  painted  with  a  coat  of  melted  paraffin  by  means  of  a  small 
brush  or  a  frazzled  end  of  a  piece  of  rope.  This  makes  the  bag  t 
practically  proof  against  insects.  To  protect  them  further  from  ' 
insect  ravages,  the  bags  should  be  labeled  and  packed  in  a 
tin  container  with  a  tight-fitting  cover.  A  large  number  of 
bags  can  be  stored  in  an  ordinary  lard  can.  Paraffin-coated 
paper  containers  of  various  sizes  can  be  found  on  the  market. 
If  such  containers  are  used,  they  should  be  stored  as  are  the 
paper  bags. 

When  vegetables  are  first  taken  from  the  drier,  if  completely 
dried  they  are  very  brittle.  They  are  more  easily  handled  and 
are  in  better  condition  for  storing  if  allowed  to  stand  from  one 
to  three  hours  to  absorb  enough  moisture  to  make  them  pliable 
before  they  are  put  into  bags  or  stored  otherwise.  If  it  is  not 
convenient  to  store  products  immediately  and  they  are  allowed 
to  stand  for  several  days,  they  should  be  heated  to  180°  F.  to 
destroy  any  insect  eggs  that  may  be  on  them.  Care  should  be 
taken  not  to  heat  the  vegetables  higher  than  180°  F. 

Apples,  which  absorb  moisture  readily,  should  be  stored  in  a 
tight  box  or  barrel  lined  with  paper  in  preference  to  cloth  sacks. 

SALTING  VEGETABLES  * 

Equipment. 

A  supply  of  clean  wooden  kegs  or  stone  crocks  is  the  first 
requisite.  For  home  use  the  smaller  sizes  are  preferable  as  a 
rule,  because  the  contents  will  then  be  used  up  more  quickly 
and  there  will  be  l6ss  chance  of  molding  from  standing  too  long 
after  the  kegs  or  crocks  are  opened.    Wooden  kegs  holding  5 

*  Round,  L.  A.,  and  Lang,  H.  L.   Preservation  of  vegetables  by  fermenta- 
tion and  salting.   Farmers'  Bull.  881,  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agr. 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


593 


or  10  gallons  are  a  convenient  size.  New  kegs  are  preferable, 
but  old  ones,  such  as  beer  or  cider  kegs,  may  be  used  if  they  are 
thoroughly  washed  and  steamed  to  remove  any  undesirable 
odor  or  flavor  which  might  be  imparted  to  the  foods  packed  in 
them.  Wooden  vessels  of  yellow  or  pitch  pine  are  undesirable, 
since  they  are  apt  to  give  a  disagreeable  taste  to  the  foods. 
Stone  crocks  or  jars  holding  from  1  to  5  gallons  are  convenient. 
Stoneware  is  less  likely  to  absorb  flavors  than  wood,  and  stone 
jars  may  be  obtained  in  smaller  sizes  than  wooden  kegs.  Wide- 
mouthed  bottles  or  glass  jars,  which  are  not  suitable  for  canning, 
may  also  be  used  for  salting  or  fermenting  small  quantities  of 
foods. 

A  supply  of  ordinary  fine  salt,  which  can  be  purchased  in  bulk 
for  about  2  cents  a  pound,  is  most  satisfactory  for  general  use. 
Table  salt  will  do  very  well,  but  is  rather  expensive  if  large 
quantities  of  vegetables  are  to  be  preserved.  The  rather  coarse 
salt  (known  in  the  trade  as  ^'ground  alum  salt^')?  which  is  used 
in  freezing  ice  cream,  can  be  used.  Rock  salt  should  not  be  used 
because  it  is  too  coarse  and  is  likely  to  contain  impurities. 

Clean  white  cloth  (cheese-cloth  or  muslin)  is  necessary  for 
covering  the  material  after  it  is  packed  into  the  container.  It 
will  be  convenient  to  cut  this  into  circular  pieces  about  6 
inches  larger  in  diameter  than  the  stone  crock  or  keg.  Two 
or  three  thicknesses  of  cheese-cloth  or  one  thickness  of  muslin 
or  heavier  cloth  should  be  spread  over  the  top  of  the  vege- 
tables. 

Round  pieces  of  board  about  1  inch  or  more  in  thickness  will 
be  needed  to  put  on  top  of  the  cheese-cloth.  The  boards  should 
be  a  little  smaller  in  diameter  than  the  inside  of  the  crock  or  the 
head  of  the  keg  or  tub,  so  that  they  will  shp  in  and  out  easily. 
The  pieces  may  be  sawed  out  at  a  lumber  mill,  or  may  be  made 
at  home  by  fastening  together  several  boards  with  cleats  and 
rounding  them  with  a  small  saw  and  a  carpenter's  shave.  Al- 
most any  wood  may  be  used  except  yellow  or  pitch  pine,  which 
is  likely  to  impart  an  undesirable  flavor  to  the  vegetables.  For 
small  containers,  if  preferred,  heavy  plates  of  suitable  size 
can  be  used  instead  of  boards. 


594 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


One  or  more  clean  bricks  or  some  clean  stones  may  be  used  as 
weights  to  hold  down  the  mass  in  the  keg  or  crock. 

Paraffin  is  needed  to  pour  over  the  liquid  in  the  containers 
(after  fermentation  has  ceased)  to  prevent  mold. 

A  pair  of  kitchen  scales  or  steelyards  and  a  quart  or  gallon 
liquid  measure  complete  the  necessary  equipment. 

Fermentation  with  dry  salting. 

As  has  already  been  stated,  fermentation  with  dry  salting 
consists  in  packing  the  material  with  a  small  amount  of  salt. 
No  water  is  added,  for  the  salt  extracts  the  water  from  the  vege- 
tables and  forms  the  brine.  The  method,  in  general,  is  as  fol- 
lows: 

Wash  the  vegetables,  drain  off  the  surplus  water,  and  weigh 
them.  For  each  100  pounds  of  the  vegetables  weigh  out  3 
pounds  of  salt;  for  smaller  quantities  use  the  same  proportion 
(3  per  cent  by  weight)  of  salt.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  keg, 
crock,  or  other  container  with  a  layer  of  the  vegetables  about 
1  inch  thick  and  sprinkle  over  this  a  little  of  the  salt.  Do  not 
add  too  much  of  the  salt  to  the  first  layers  packed,  but  try  to 
distribute  it  equally  among  the  different  layers  so  that  the 
quantity  which  has  been  weighed  out  will  be  sufficient  for  the 
given  quantity  of  vegetables  packed.  If  a  little  of  the  salt  is 
left  over,  it  can  be  added  to  the  top  layer,  but  if  more  has  to 
be  added  than  has  been  weighed  out,  the  finished  product  will 
taste  too  salty.  Continue  adding  layers  of  the  material  sprin- 
kled with  salt  until  the  container  is  about  three-fourths  full. 
Sprinkle  the  last  of  the  salt  on  the  top  layer  and  spread  over  it 
one  or  two  thicknesses  of  cheese-cloth,  tucking  them  down  at 
the  sides.  On  the  cloth  place  one  of  the  round  pieces  of  board 
or  a  plate,  and  on  this  put  a  clean  stone  or  one  or  two  clean 
bricks.  The  size  of  the  weight  depends  on  the  quantity  of  ma- 
terial being  preserved.  For  a  5-gallon  keg  a  weight  of  10  pounds 
will  be  sufficient,  but  if  a  larger  barrel  is  used,  a  heavier  weight 
will  be  needed.  The  weight  added  should  be  sufficient  to  ex- 
tract the  juices  to  form  a  brine,  which  will  cover  the  top  in 
about  twenty-four  hours  and  sometimes  it  may  be  necessary 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


595 


to  add  more  stones  after  the  material  has  stood  a  while,  if  a 
brinQ  does  not  form. 

After  it  is  packed,  allow  the  container  to  stand  in  a  moderately 
warm  room  to  ferment.  The  salt  and  pressure  of  the  weight 
soon  extract  water  from  the  vegetables  and  form  a  brine  which 
soon  covers  the  whole  mass.  The  stone  and  board  serve  to 
keep  the  vegetables  beneath  the  surface  of  the  liquid.  If  the 
weight  is  not  sufficient  for  this  purpose,  a  larger  stone  or  more 
bricks  should  be  added.  As  the  fermentation  goes  on,  bubbles 
arise  to  the  surface  of  the  Hquid.  The  rate  of  fermentation  de- 
pends principally  on  the  temperature.  In  warm  weather  it 
requires  only  eight  to  ten  days ;  in  cool  weather  two  to  four  weeks 
may  be  necessary.  When  bubbling  stops,  fermentation  is  com- 
plete. A  good  way  to  determine  this  is  to  tap  the  receptacle 
gently;  if  no  bubbles  arise,  fermentation  is  finished. 

The  containers  should  then  be  placed  in  a  cellar  or  other  cool 
storeroom  and  the  surface  of  the  liquid  treated  to  prevent  the 
development  of  a  scum  of  mold.  If  this  is  not  done,  a  thin  film 
will  appear  on  the  surface  of  the  brine  soon  after  fermentation 
ceases,  which  will  spread  rapidly  and  develop  into  a  heavy 
folded  membrane.  This  scum  is  a  growth  of  micro-organisms 
which  feed  upon  the  acid  formed  by  fermentation.  If  allowed 
to  grow  undisturbed,  all  the  acid  will  eventually  be  destroyed 
and  the  fermented  material  will  spoil.  This  scum  must  be 
prevented  from  forming  if  the  product  is  to  be  kept  for  a  con- 
siderable time.  Exclusion  of  air  from  the  surface  of  the  brine 
will  entirely  prevent  its  formation.  There  are  three  feasible 
methods  of  accompHshing  this. 

The  first  method  is  to  cover  the  surface  with  very  hot  melted 
paraffin.  If  the  paraffin  is  sufficiently  hot  to  make  the  brine 
boil  when  poured  upon  it,  a  smooth,  even  layer  will  be  formed 
before  hardening,  making  a  perfectly  air-tight  seal.  Before 
adding  paraffin  the  containers  should  be  set  where  they  will 
not  be  disturbed  until  ready  for  use,  as  any  attempt  to  move 
them  afterwards  may  break  the  seal  and  necessitate  resealing. 
Paraffin  has  the  advantage  of  ease  in  handling,  and  of  being 
easily  separated  from  the  fermented  vegetables  when  they  are 


596 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


removed.  Further,  it  can  be  used  over  again  and  thus  the  ex- 
pense is  small  in  the  long  run.  If  it  becomes  dirty  it  can  be 
purified  by  heating  very  hot  and  straining  through  several  thick- 
nesses of  cheese-cloth.  One  disadvantage  in  the  use  of  paraffin 
is  that  the  formation  of  gas  below  the  layer  will  break  the  seal; 
therefore,  it  should  not  be  used  until  fermentation  has  ceased.  If 
the  paraffin  breaks,  it  should  be  removed,  remelted,  and  replaced. 

The  second  method  is  to  pack  a  barrel  or  keg  full  and  then  re- 
place the  head.  Fill  the  barrel  or  keg  as  full  as  possible  with  the 
fresh  material  to  be  fermented  and  then  add  the  round  board 
and  weights  exactly  as  described  on  page  594.  Let  the  barrel 
stand  for  48  hours  to  allow  part  of  the  gas  to  escape.  Then 
remove  the  board  and  weight  and  head  the  barrel  or  keg  up 
tight.  Bore  a  small  hole  (about  inch)  in  the  head  and  fill  the 
barrel  full  with  brine  (made  by  dissolving  ^  cup  salt  in  1  gal- 
lon water)  so  that  there  is  no  air  space.  Allow  the  barrel  to 
stand  until  the  fermentation  has  stopped,  adding  more  brine 
at  intervals  to  keep  the  container  full.  When  bubbling  has 
stopped,  plug  the  vent  tight.  If  the  barrel  does  not  leak,  fer- 
mented products  put  up  in  this  manner  will  keep  indefinitely. 

The  third  method  is  to  use  an  oil,  like  cottonseed  oil,  which 
floats  on  the  surface  and  effectively  prevents  air  from  reaching 
the  brine.  Brine  covered  with  a  layer  of  cottonseed  oil  or  some 
other  wholesome  oil  about  3^  inch  thick  will  keep  indefinitely. 
The  only  objection  to  liquid  oils  is  the  difficulty  of  getting  at  the 
preserved  vegetables  without  getting  them  covered  with  the 
oil,  which  is  difficult  to  remove.  Before  the  vegetables  are  to 
be  removed  the  oil  should  be  skimmed  or  siphoned  off  from  the 
surface  of  the  brine. 

If  oil  or  paraffin  is  used  to  cover  the  brine,  it  is  advisable, 
after  fermentation  is  finished,  to  adjust  the  amount  of  brine 
used  and  weights  on  the  cover  so  that  the  brine  comes  up  to  but 
not  over  the  cover.  In  this  case  only  the  brine  exposed  between 
the  cover  and  sides  need  be  oiled  or  paraffined,  thus  saving 
covering  material. 

Experiments  have  shown  that  the  following  vegetables  may 
be  preserved  successfully  under  home  conditions  by  the  above 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


597 


method  of  fermentation  by  dry  salting:  cabbage  (sauerkraut), 
string  beans,  beet  tops,  and  turnip  tops,  and  it  is  probable  that 
others  maybe  added  to  this  Hst  as  a  result  of  further  experiments. 

Fermentation  in  add  hrine. 

Some  vegetables  which  do  not  contain  sufficient  water  are 
better  fermented  by  covering  them  with  a  weak  brine.  This 
may  be  done  as  follows:  Wash  the  vegetables,  drain  off  the 
surplus  water,  and  pack  them  in  a  keg,  crock,  or  other  utensil 
until  it  is  nearly  full  (within  about  3  inches  of  the  top  of  the 
vessel) .  Prepare  a  weak  brine  as  follows :  To  each  gallon  of  water 
used  add  }/2  pint  of  vinegar  and  ^  cup  of  salt  and  stir  until  the 
salt  is  entirely  dissolved.  The  amount  of  brine  necessary  to 
cover  the  vegetables  will  be  about  equal  to  one-half  the  volume 
of  the  material  to  be  fermented.  This  is  very  easily  calculated 
by  knowing  the  contents  of  the  container  used.  For  example,  if 
a  5-gallon  keg  is  to  be  packed,  2}/2  gallons  will  be  needed.  It  is 
best  to  make  up  at  one  time  all  the  brine  needed  on  one  day. 
A  clean  tub  or  barrel  can  be  used  for  mixing  the  brine.  Pour  the 
brine  over  the  vegetables  and  cover  as  described  on  page  594. 
Set  the  vessel  and  its  contents  away  in  a  moderately  warm  room 
to  ferment.  When  fermentation  has  stopped,  the  container 
should  be  placed  in  a  cool  cellar  or  storeroom  and  the  surface 
of  the  liquid  treated  to  prevent  mold  by  one  of  the  methods  de- 
scribed above.  Before  adding  the  paraffin  or  cottonseed  oil, 
any  scum  or  mold  which  may  have  formed  on  the  surface  of  the 
liquid  should  be  removed  by  skimming. 

Experience  has  shown  that  the  following  vegetables  may  be 
preserved  satisfactorily  by  fermenting  in  brine:  cucumbers, 
string  beans,  green  tomatoes,  beets,  beet  tops,  turnip  tops,  corn, 
and  green  peas.  The  general  directions  given  above  should  be 
followed,  but  some  modifications  are  desirable  in  the  preserving 
of  individual  vegetables  by  this  method. 

Salting  without  fermentation. 

In  this  method  the  vegetables  are  packed  with  enough  salt  to 
prevent  fermentation  or  the  growth  of  yeasts  or  molds.  The 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


following  directions  should  be  followed  in  salting  vegetables:  j 
Wash  the  vegetables,  drain  off  the  water,  and  then  weigh 
them.   For  each  100  pounds  of  vegetables  weigh  out  25  pounds  i 
of  salt.    For  smaller  quantities  use  the  same  proportion  of 
salt  (one-fourth  of  the  weight  of  the  vegetables) .  Spread 
a  layer  of  the  vegetables  about  1  inch  deep  on  the  bottom 
of  a  clean  keg,  tub,  or  crock,  and  sprinkle  heavily  with  some 
of  the  salt.    Try  to  distribute  the  salt  evenly  among  the 
different  layers  packed  so  that  the  quantity  weighed  out  will  i 
be  just  enough  to  pack  the  vegetables.   Continue  adding  layers  ' 
of  vegetables  and  salt  until  the  container  is  nearly  full  and  then 
cover  with  the  clean  cloth,  board,  and  weight,  as  in  the  case  of 
fermentation  by  dry  salting.  The  keg  or  other  container  should 
then  be  set  aside  in  a  cool  place.   If  the  salt  and  pressure  of  the 
weight  have  not  extracted  sufficient  brine  to  cover  the  vege- 
tables, after  24  hours,  prepare  a  strong  brine  by  dissolving  1 
pound  of  salt  in  2  quarts  of  water  and  pour  enough  of  this  over 
the  vegetables  to  come  up  to  the  round  wooden  cover.   There  ( 
will  be  a  small  amount  of  bubbling  at  the  start,  as  in  the  case  i 
of  the  fermented  vegetables,  but  this  will  not  continue  long,  f 
Just  as  soon  as  the  bubbling  has  stopped,  the  surface  of  the  liquid  e 
should  be  protected  by  one  of  the  methods  described  on  i 
page  595.  si 
Experiments  have  shown  that  the  following  vegetables  may  be  ii 
satisfactorily  preserved  by  the  above  method:  dandehons,  beet  tl 
tops,  turnip  tops,  spinach,  chard,  kale,  cabbage,  string  beans,  gi 
green  peas,  and  corn. 

ha. 

Care  and  storage.  co 
If  properly  prepared  and  stored,  fermented  and  salted  prod-  h 
ucts  will  keep  for  a  long  time.  It  is  absolutely  necessary  to  k 
prevent  mold  from  growing  on  the  surface  of  the  brine  of  fer-  |  ing 
mented  vegetables  by  the  addition  of  paraffin  or  in  some  other  pre 
way.  Protection  of  the  surface  of  salted  vegetables  is  desirable, 
but  not  necessary  if  the  containers  are  covered  to  prevent  the  ^ 
evaporation  of  the  brine.  Practically  all  of  the  trouble  with  the 
fermented  or  salted  products  may  be  traced  to  carelessness  in 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


599 


protecting  the  surface  of  the  brine.  In  case  mold  should  de- 
velop upon  the  surface  or  the  brine  should  become  evaporated 
so  that  the  upper  layers  of  the  food  spoil,  this  does  not  mean 
necessarily  that  the  entire  contents  of  the  vessel  have  spoiled, 
even  though  the  upper  layers  may  have  a  very  disagreeable 
odor.  The  molds  and  other  organisms  which  cause  the  spoil- 
ing do  not  penetrate  rapidly  to  the  lower  layers,  and  by  care- 
fully removing  the  spoiled  material  from  the  top,  adding  a 
little  fresh  brine  and  pouring  hot  paraffin  on  the  top,  the  re- 
mainder of  the  contents  of  the  vessel  may  be  saved.  After 
fermentation  has  ceased,  the  containers  of  salted  and  fermented 
vegetables  should  be  stored  in  a  cool  place.  They  should  be 
protected  from  rats,  mice,  and  vermin,  which  might  eat  through 
the  paraffin  layer  and  get  at  the  contents. 

Preparation  of  fermented  and  salted  vegetables  for  the  table. 

Some  fermented  and  salted  vegetables,  like  cucumbers,  are 
eaten  raw;  others,  Hke  cabbage  (sauerkraut),  are  usually  cooked. 
In  general  the  fermented  and  salted  products  may  be  prepared 
for  the  table  in  much  the  same  manner  as  the  fresh  vegetables, 
except  that  before  being  cooked  they  should  be  soaked  in  fresh 
water  for  several  hours  or  longer,  if  necessary,  to  remove  the 
salt,  the  water  being  changed  several  times.  In  some  cases  it 
may  be  necessary  also  to  change  the  water  once  or  twice  during 
the  boiling  of  the  salted  vegetables.  In  this,  one  should  be 
guided  by  taste. 

Fermented  vegetables,  after  being  removed  from  the  con- 
tainer, should  be  rinsed  thoroughly  in  fresh  water  and  then 
cooked  without  soaking  if  a  product  having  a  decidedly  acid 
flavor  is  desired.  If  one  does  not  desire  the  acid  flavor,  it  may 
be  modified  to  any  extent  or  removed  almost  entirely  by  soak- 
ing the  fermented  vegetables  as  directed  above  for  the  salted 
product. 

CANNING 

Successful  preservation  of  food  by  canning  depends  on  two 
things:  first,  the  sterilization  of  the  food  and  the  can,  that  is, 
the  complete  destruction  by  heat  of  all  life  in  or  on  the  food, 


600 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


and  on  all  parts  of  the  can  that  are  to  come  in  contact  with  the 
food;  second,  subsequent  care  to  prevent  further  entrance  of 
micro-organisms . 

The  presence  of  air  in  a  can  will  not  cause  food  to  spoil,  pro- 
vided the  air  is  sterile,  that  is,  freed  from  all  living  organisms. 
A  half-filled  can  of  fruit  will  keep  perfectly  if  fruit,  can,  rubber, 
and  cover  are  sterile,  if  the  air  space  above  the  fruit  is  sterile, 
and  if  micro-organisms  cannot  enter  the  can.  The  precaution 
sometimes  taken  to  run  a  knife  or  a  spoon  down  the  sides  of  a 
can  in  order  to  remove  the  few  bubbles  that  may  be  there,  is 
consequently  unneces^sary.  Unless  the  spoon  or  knife  has  been 
boiled,  its  use  in  removing  air  may  even  endanger  the  keeping 
qualities  of  a  can  of  food,  for  it  may  hold  organisms  that  thus 
find  their  way  into  the  can. 

It  is  now  known  that  some  micro-organisms  that  cause  foods 
to  spoil  may  assume  two  forms,  the  spore  and  the  vegetative 
form.  When  conditions  are  unfavorable  to  their  growth,  they 
go  into  the  spore  form,  cease  growing  and  reproducing,  and  be- 
come inactive  and  very  resistant  to  the  influence  of  heat.  It  is 
their  method  of  tiding  over  a  hard  time. 

In  the  spore  form  micro-organisms  are  much  more  difficult  to 
destroy  than  in  the  vegetative  form,  and  some  of  them  are  able 
to  resist  for  many  hours  a  temperature  even  as  high  as  the  boil- 
ing point  of  water.  During  a  dry  season  spores  occur  much 
more  frequently  than  usual  on  fruits  and  vegetables,  and  the 
difficulties  of  successful  canning  may,  therefore,  be  greatly 
increased.  As  soon  as  growth  conditions  become  favorable — 
when  warmth,  moisture,  and  food  are  supplied — spores  begin 
changing  over  to  the  active,  growing,  vegetative  form,  and  in 
their  greater  liveliness  they  lose  much  of  their  power  to  resist 
heat,  cold,  and  other  unfavorable  influences.  These  facts 
explain  why  canned  foods  sometimes  spoil  even  after  long  boil- 
ing and  careful  and  complete  sealing;  the  boiling  temperature 
may  not  have  been  sufficient  to  destroy  the  spores,  which  soon 
change  over  to  the  active  growing  state.  The  problem  of  suc- 
cessful canning  is,  therefore,  how  even  the  most  resistant  micro- 
organisms may  be  killed. 


1 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


601 


The  commercial  canner  has  solved  the  problem  of  steriHza- 
tion  by  the  use  of  steam  under  pressure.  In  this  way  a  tempera- 
ture higher  than  the  boiHng  point  of  water,  and  hence  more  de- 
structive, is  obtained.  With  a  sufficiently  high  temperature,  a 
relatively  short  time  of  cooking  is  required  to  sterilize  food. 

Equipment  for  canning. 

If  canning  is  to  be  done  successfully,  even  on  a  small  scale, 
it  is  necessary  to  have  some  equipment  that  will  lighten  labor 
and  save  time.   Such  equipment  may  be  bought  especially  for 


Fig.  123. — Sterilizer,  showing  false  bottom  as  a  rack. 

the  purpose,  or  it  may  be  made  from  something  already  on 
hand.  If  possible,  a  canner  should  be  seen  in  operation  before 
it  is  bought. 

If  the  so-called  cold-pack  method  (page  606)  is  used,  the  first 
and  most  essential  part  of  the  canning  equipment  is  a  recep- 
tacle in  which  the  cans  of  food  may  be  steamed  or  boiled.  This 
receptacle  and  its  parts  are  generally  spoken  of  as  the  canner  or 
the  canning  outfit.  Canners  suitable  for  home  use  are  of  four 
general  types:  (1)  hot-water  outfits;  (2)  steam  cookers;  (3) 
water-seal  outfits;  (4)  steam-pressure  outfits. 

While  a  small  hot-water  canner  may  easily  be  devised  at 


602  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


home,  as  suggested  in  the  following  paragraph,  its  usefulness  |  ho 
is  limited  by  its  small  capacity  and  the  amount  of  fuel  that  it 
requires.    Commercial  outfits  capable  of  accommodating  com-  ■  Tl 
paratively  large  quantities  with  convenience  are  briefly  dis-  lio 
cussed  in  succeeding  paragraphs.  ca 

A  home-made  hot-water  canner  may  be  constructed  out  of 
any  utensil  that  is  large  enough  to  hold  a  number  of  cans,  that 


Fig.    124. — Commercial  hot-water  canning 
outfit  for  out-of-door  work. 


is  deep  enough  to  allow  the  cans  to  be  completely  covered  with 
boiling  water,  and  that  is  capable  of  being  fitted  with  a  rack, 
or  false  bottom,  to  prevent  the  cans  from  resting  on  the  bottom  ^ 
of  the  receptacle,  and  to  insure  the  free  circulation  of  water 
in  the  boiler  (Fig.  123).  A  tight-fitting  cover  that  will  retain 
as  much  heat  as  possible  will  help  to  save  fuel.  A  tin  sap-bucket,  gj| 
a  large  tin  oyster-pail,  or  a  clothes  boiler  may  be  converted  into 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


603 


a  hot-water  canner  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the  individual 
housekeeper. 

A  number  of  simple  hot-water  outfits  are  now  on  the  market. 
The  main  advantages  that  they  have  over  those  adapted  at 
home  from  some  other  equipment  are  that  they  will  hold  more 
cans  at  one  time,  and  that  they  have  perforated  trays,  with 


Fig.  125. — Steam  cooker. 


handles,  on  which  a  number  of  cans  may  be  lowered  into  and 
lifted  from  the  canner  at  one  time.  Such  trays  may  and  should 
be  made  for  the  home-made  outfit.  The  commercial  hot-water 
outfits  are  often  equipped  with  a  fire-box,  which  makes  it  pos- 
sible to  use  them  outdoors  if  desired  (Fig.  124). 


604  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

The  steam  cooker  (Fig.  125)  is  light  in  weight  and  is  easily 
handled.  It  is  a  better  shape  than  the  boiler  for  use  on  a  stove 
and  is  far  more  economical  in  the  amount  of  fuel  required.  It 
may  be  used  throughout  the  year,  since  it  is  adapted  for  or- 
dinary cooking  as  well  as  for  canning.  Food  that  is  canned  in 
a  steamer  retains  its  shape  well.  The  time  of  cooking  as  given 
in  the  time-table  must  be  somewhat  increased  because  the  tem- 
perature is  likely  to  be  slightly  lower  than  the  boiling  point  of 
water.   Steamers  are  made  in  copper  and  in  tin. 

The  cover  of  the  water-seal  outfit  is  so  devised  that  a  seal  of 
water  holds  it  down  tight,  and  thus  the  steam  in  the  space 
above  the  cans  is  held  under  slight  pressure.  The  temperature 
of  steam  under  pressure  is  above  that  of  boiling  water.  Hence 
with  the  water-seal  outfit  the  time  needed  for  sterilization  may 
be  somewhat  reduced.  The  efficiency  of  such  an  outfit  depends 
on  the  amount  of  pressure  produced. 

When  steam  is  held  under  considerable  pressure,  temperatures 
much  higher  than  that  of  boiling  water  may  be  obtained,  and 
the  rise  in  temperature  is  in  direct  proportion  to  the  rise  in 
pressure.  A  number  of  good  portable  canners  in  which  a  pres- 
sure from  five  to  fifteen  pounds  may  be  obtained  are  now  on  the 
market. 

Steam-pressure  canners  are  the  most  successful  for  almost  all 
kinds  of  vegetables  and  meats,  because  the  greater  heat  ob- 
tained in  them  effects  complete  sterilization  in  a  comparatively 
short  time  and  during  one  cooking.  Hence  time,  labor,  and  heat 
are  saved. 

The  equipment  is  the  same  as  for  hot-water  outfits,  with  the 
addition  of  a  steam  gauge,  a  pet  cock,  and  a  thermometer.  In 
some  cases  when  canning  is  done  in  tin  cans,  a  blast  furnace  is 
supplied,  together  with  the  soldering  tools.  Some  outfits  in- 
clude a  boiler,  a  crate,  a  soldering  outfit,  and  arrangements  for 
a  fire  pot. 

There  are  many  kinds  of  jars  on  the  market.  The  best  jar 
is  one  that  is  simple  in  construction,  that  can  be  sealed  per- 
fectly and  washed  easily,  that  protects  the  contained  food 
against  contact  with  metals,  that  has  the  fewest  parts  to  be  lost 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


605 


or  misplaced,  and  that  fits  the  shelves  and  receptacles  planned 
to  hold  it.  The  glass  should  be  clear  with  no  bubbles,  and  the 
jar  should  be  smooth  both  inside  and  outside.  The  color  of  the 
glass,  whether  white  or  green,  has  no  effect  on  retaining  the 
color  of  the  food.    The  type  of  jar  that  seems  to  give  most 


Fig.    126.— Manner    of      Fig.  127.— Position      Fig.  128.— Position 
testing  a  jar.  of  clamp  during  of  clamp  after 

sterilization.  sterilization. 


general  satisfaction  is  one  with  a  wide  mouth  and  straight  sides 
and  with  a  glass  cover  clamped  on  with  some  metal  device. 

A  glass  jar  should  be  tested  before  it  is  used  (Fig.  126).  The 
finger  should  be  run  around  the  edge  of  the  jar  as  well  as  the  lid 
where  the  rubber  rests,  to  determine  whether  the  glass  is  smooth. 
Filing  may  be  necessary. 

A  jar  with  a  wire  clamp  should  have  the  lid  placed  on  it,  and 
the  lid  should  be  tapped.  If  it  rocks,  the  jar  is  imperfect. 
When  the  rubber  is  adjusted  and  the  lid  is  placed  on  the  jar, 
the  wire  clamp  should  snap  on.  It  may  be  necessary  to  remove 
the  bail  and  either  to  straighten  it  or  to  bend  it  more  in  order 


606 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


to  tighten  or  loosen  the  Hd  as  the  case  may  require.  Bulging 
of  the  rubber  may  be  caused  by  too  tight  a  clamp. 

A  mason  jar  may  be  tested  by  placing  the  lid  on  it  without  a 
rubber  and  attempting  to  insert  the  thumb  nail  between  the 
lid  and  the  jar.  If  this  can  be  done,  the  jar  is  defective.  An- 
other test  is  to  adjust  the  rubber  and  the  lid  and  to  pull  out  the 
rubber  in  one  place.  If  the  rubber  stays  out,  the  jar  is  good; 
if  it  springs  back,  the  jar  is  defective. 

The  testing  of  any  type  of  jar  may  be  accomplished  by  filling 
the  jar  partly  with  boiling  water,  adjusting  the  cover  and  the 
rubber,  and  sealing  and  inverting  the  jar.  If  it  leaks,  it  should 
be  examined  to  determine  whether  the  leakage  is  due  to  an 
imperfect  jar,  a  poor  rubber,  or  to  improper  adjustment  of  the 
wire  clamp,  in  case  a  wire  clamp  is  used.  If  any  defect  noticed 
cannot  be  remedied,  the  jar  should  be  reserved  for  pickles  or 
some  food  that  does  not  require  sealing. 

New  rubbers  should  be  used  each  year.  Old  rubber  loses  its 
elasticity,  and  may  cause  imperfect  seaHng  and  thus  endanger 
the  keeping  of  the  food.  A  good  rubber  is  elastic,  not  brittle, 
and  will  not  break  easily  when  stretched.  Care  should  be  given 
to  the  selection  of  good  rubbers,  for  even  new  ones  may  be  stiff, 
inelastic,  and  hard,  or  may  contain  no  rubber  at  all.  Some 
rubbers  on  the  market  impart  so  disagreeable  a  flavor  and  odor 
to  the  canned  food  that  it  must  be  discarded.  Good  rubbers 
are  hard  to  procure,  but  nothing  less  than  the  best  should  be 
accepted.  They  are  more  expensive  than  poor  rubbers,  but  in 
the  end  they  cost  less. 

Blanching. 

Blanching  is  an  important  preliminary  step  in  the  cold-pad^ 
method  of  canning.  It  is  used  for  some  fruits  and  may  be  used 
for  all  vegetables.  Blanching  may  be  done  with  either  boiling 
water  or  steam. 

When  boiling  water  is  used,  the  fruit  or  the  vegetable  is' 
placed  in  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  or  a  crate,  lowered  entirely 
under  the  water,  and  heated  for  the  required  number  of  minutes 
(pages  612  to  614).    Only  a  small  quantity  of  the  product 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


607 


should  be  blanched  at  a  time  in  order  that  the  water  may  be 
kept  as  near  the  boiling  point  as  possible. 

Delicately  flavored  greens  are  generally  blanched  by  steam 
in  order  to  avoid  the  loss  of  iron  and  other  nutrients  that  oc- 
curs when  they  are  immersed  in  boiling  water.  For  blanching 
in  steam,  the  food  is  placed  in  some  perforated  utensil  or  a 
piece  of  cheese-cloth  and  suspended  in  a  tightly  closed  steamer. 
The  food  should  be  blanched  until  no  further  shrinkage  will 
occur.  Blanching  in  steam  generally  requires  a  longer  time 
than  blanching  in  boiling  water.  The  steam  must  penetrate 
to  all  parts  of  the  mass,  and  for  this  reason  the  fruits  or  vege- 
tables should  not  be  crowded  together.  Blanching  in  steam 
is  not  recommended  for  strong-flavored  greens. 

Blanching  may  accomplish  one  or  more  results:  (1)  it  helps 
to  insure  a  close  pack  either  by  contracting  the  tissue  and 
making  the  product  flexible,  as  in  the  case  of  string  beans 
and  asparagus,  or  by  causing  a  decided  shrinkage,  as  with 
greens;  (2)  it  may  partly  eliminate  strong  acids  or  bitter  flavors; 
(3)  it  may  set  the  color ;  (4)  it  begins  the  sterihzation  of  the  food ; 
(5)  it  loosens  the  skins  of  certain  fruits  and  vegetables  from 
the  pulp  so  that  they  may  be  slipped  or  scraped  off  easily,  as 
in  the  case  of  peaches,  tomatoes,  or  carrots.  When  blanching 
serves  this  last  purpose,  it  is  frequently  called  scalding.  Blanch- 
ing may  not  be  necessary  but  it  is  believed  to  give  a  superior 
product  in  many  cases. 

The  cold  dip  is  the  rapid  chilling  of  the  outside  of  the  blanched 
fruit  or  vegetable  by  plunging  it  into  cold  water.  While  the 
food  may  need  to  be  cold  dipped  in  order  to  be  cooled  sufficiently 
to  make  it  easily  handled  and  to  insure  the  cooling  of  the  center 
of  the  mass,  it  should  not  be  allowed  to  remain  long  in  the 
cold  water. 

Sirups. 

The  thickness  of  sirup  for  canning  fruits  depends  on  the  kind 
of  fruit  with  which  it  is  to  be  used  and  the  richness  of  the 
product  desired. 

In  order  to  obtain  three  grades  of  sirup  for  ordinary  use  in 


608 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


panning,  sugar  and  water  may  be  combined  in  the  following 
proportions  and  heated  only  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  The 
quantity  of  water  is  kept  constant  in  order  to  show  the  variation 
in  the  quantity  of  sugar  used. 

Thin  sirup  (about  a  30-per-cent  solution) :  1%  cups  of  sugar 
and  4  cups  of  water.  This  sirup  may  be  used  for  such  fruits  as 
apples,  pears,  raspberries,  and  other  sweet  berries,  when  a  rich 
product  is  not  desired. 

Medium  sirup  (about  a  40-per-cent  solution):  2%  cups  of 
sugar  and  4  cups  of  water.  This  sirup  may  be  used  for  such 
fruits  as  sweet  plums,  blackberries,  and  sweet  cherries. 

Thick  sirup  (about  a  55-per-cent  solution):  5  cups  of  sugar 
and  4  cups  of  water.  This  sirup  may  be  used  for  such  fruits 
as  peaches,  cherries,  or  pineapples  when  a  sweet  product  is 
desired. 

A  still  thicker  sirup  may  be  desirable  for  rhubarb,  goose- 
berries, currants,  sour  cherries,  and  other  very  sour  fruits. 
Such  a  sirup  may  be  made  by  boiling  the  thick  sirup  until  it 
begins  to  spin  a  thread  instead  of  using  it  when  the  sugar  has 
just  dissolved. 

Methods  of  canning. 

Two  methods  of  canning  are  commonly  used  both  in  the 
household  and  in  the  canning  factory,  the  open-kettle  method 
and  the  cold-pack  method. 

The  open-kettle  method  is  so  called  because  the  food  to  be 
canned  is  completely  cooked  in  a  kettle  and  then  poured  into 
the  jar.  Unless  the  jar,  the  cover,  the  rubber,  and  all 
utensils  that  come  in  contact  with  the  food  have  been 
boiled  for  twenty  minutes  before  the  jars  are  filled,  and  unless 
the  work  is  carefully  done,  there  is  always  the  risk  that  the 
food  will  be  reinfected  and  that  it  may  spoil  after  the  jar  has 
been  sealed.  For  some  products,  such  as  preserves,  conserves, 
jams,  and  marmalades,  for  which  condensation  and  heat  more 
intense  than  that  of  boiling  water  are  needed,  the  open-kettle 
method  must  still  be  used.  For  beets,  the  open-kettle  method 
is  recommended,  because  the  skins  can  be  removed  after  the 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


609 


■cooking,  and  thus  less  color  is  lost.  Many  persons  prefer  the 
open-kettle  method  for  canning  strawberries  and  tomatoes. 

In  the  so  called  cold-pack  method,  the  micooked  or  partly 
cooked  fruit,  vegetable,  or  other  food  is  packed  in  a  can;  the 
food  is  covered  with  some  liquid,  such  as  water,  sirup,  or  juice; 
and  both  the  jar  and  its  contents  are  heated  simultaneously 
in  boihng  water  or  steam.  This  method  may  be  used  for  most 
fruits  and  all  vegetables.  It  is  recommended  for  meats,  be- 
cause it  conserves  the  flavor  and  because  meat  ma}^  thus  be 
canned  under  steam  pressure.  It  is  used  by  all  canning  fac- 
tories for  simple  canned  vegetables,  fruits,  and  meats.  It  is  also 
being  adopted  gradually  by  housekeepers,  since  in  general  it  is  a 
safer,  easier  way  of  canning  most  foods  than  the  old  open-kettle 
method,  and  since  the  product  keeps  much  of  its  natural  flavor. 

Heat  may  be  applied  in  the  cold-pack  method  in  one  of  two 
ways : 

1.  Continuousl}^  (a)  The  cans  may  be  covered  with  boiling 
water  and  may  be  cooked  continuously  for  a  given  length  of 
time  and  sealed,  (b)  The  cans  rnay  be  placed  in  a  pressure 
canner  and  cooked  under  steam  pressure  for  a  given  length  of 
time  and  sealed. 

2.  Intermittently.  The  cans  may  be  covered  with  boiling 
water  and  may  be  cooked  for  a  stated  length  of  time  on  each  of 
three  successive  days,  being  sealed  at  the  close  of  each  period 
of  heating. 

When  food  is  cooked  in  the  can  for  a  given  period  on  each  of 
three  successive  days,  the  process  is  called  intermittent  heating. 

Acid  or  sweet  foods  may  be  canned  safely  by  one  period  of 
heating.  It  is  not  always  safe  to  can  certain  non-acid  vege- 
tables by  a  single  period  unless  steam  pressure  is  used.  They 
may  keep  if  cooked  long  enough  but  there  is  always  a  risk. 
This  is  because  of  the  possible  presence  on  them  of  resistant 
spores  which  are  sometimes  able  to  survive  even  twelve  hours 
of  continuous  boiling.  The  intermittent  method  seems  to 
be  safer  for  these  vegetables,  but  only  the  steam  pressure 
method  can  be  considered  wholly  safe.  Many  vegetables  ac- 
cepted by  the  housekeeper  as  having  kept  are  poor  in  both  flavor 


610 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


and  odor,  and  this  is  due  to  spoilage.  Food  that  has  kept  should 
not  have  either  a  flat  or  a  sour  taste. 

Experiments  in  canning  seem  to  indicate  that  the  organism 
known  as  hotulinus  may  not  be  destroyed  either  by  the  con- 
tinuous or  the  intermittent  methods  of  canning  in  hot  water. 
When  foods  are  canned  at  home,  unless  the  pressure  cooker  has 
been  used,  it  is  urged  that  when  the  contents  are  removed  from 
the  can  they  be  boiled  for  several  minutes  before  being  eaten. 
If,  for  example,  beans  are  to  be  used  as  a  salad,  they  should  be 
boiled  first  and  then  cooled.    Such  a  procedure  makes  for  safety. 

For  peas,  beans,  corn,  asparagus,  greens,  pumpkin,  and 
squash,  the  intermittent  method  of  canning  is  strongly  recom- 
mended, unless  steam  pressure  is  used.  Many  canned  foods, 
even  non-acid  ones,  may  keep  without  intermittent  heating 
if  the  time  of  boiling  is  long  enough,  but  there  seems  to  be 
no  certainty  about  it.  Variations  in  soil,  moisture,  and  climatic 
conditions  from  year  to  year  may  cause  a  failure  one  year 
when  success  has  always  before  attended  the  one-period  process 
of  cooking.  Even  with  the  three  periods  of  heating,  there  is 
risk  of  spoilage,  if  the  first  period  has  not  been  long  enough 
or  if  too  long  a  time  elapses  between  the  first  and  second  periods. 

The  intermittent  method  is  as  follows :  After  a  food  is  canned, 
boiled,  and  sealed,  it  is  allowed  to  stand  for  twenty-four  hours 
at  room  temperature.  This  gives  time  for  spores  to  change 
to  the  vegetative  form  which  they  will  do  when  warmth  and 
food  are  supplied.  The  canned  food  is  then  cooked  a  second 
time  in  order  to  destroy  the  vegetative  forms,  and,  still  sealed, 
is  allowed  to  stand  for  twenty-four  hours  at  room  temperature. 
Since  all  spores  may  not  have  changed  during  the  first  twenty- 
four  hours,  it  is  safer  to  allow  a  second  twenty-four  hours  of 
standing  and  a  third  period  of  cooking. 

The  high  temperatures  or  repeated  heatings  used  in  the 
canning  of  vegetables  are  not  only  troublesome  and  expensive, 
but  often  injurious  to  the  fiavor  and  texture.  Experiments  at 
the  University  of  California  *  have  developed  a  very  simple  and 
certain  way  of  sterilizing  vegetables  as  easily  as  fruit.  This  con- 
*  Cruess,  W.  V.   Circ.  158,  Agr.  Exp.  Sta.,  Univ.  of  Calif. 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


611 


sists  in  the  addition  of  a  little  acid  to  the  liquid  in  which  they 
are  canned.  It  was  found  that  peas  heated  to  212°  F.  in  a  brine 
acidified  by  the  addition  of  5  ounces  of  lemon  juice  to  every 
gallon,  kept  perfectly,  while  peas  heated  in  the  same  brine  with- 
out lemon  juice  spoiled.  The  same  results  were  obtained  with 
beans,  pumpkins,  beets,  turnips,  artichokes,  and  asparagus. 
Large  quantities  of  these  vegetables  are  lost  by  ^'spoilage"  in 
the  commercial  canneries.  The  flavor  of  the  vegetables  steril- 
ized at  the  low  temperature  was  much  superior  to  that  of  those 
sterihzed  under  pressure. 

The  common  household  practice  of  canning  corn  and  tomatoes 
together  owes  its  efficacy  to  the  same  principle.  Corn  alone  is 
very  difficult  to  sterilize,  owing  to  its  lack  of  acidity.  This  lack 
is  supplied  by  the  tomatoes  and  the  mixture  is  easily  preserved 
by  ordinary  heating.  Doubtless  other  wholesome  acids,  such  as 
vinegar,  citric,  or  tartaric  acid,  could  be  used  for  the  same  pur- 
pose. The  amount  of  acid  used  is  small  and  improves  rather 
than  injures  the  flavor. 

The  new  method  avoids  both  the  expense  of  a  pressure  cooker 
and  the  trouble  of  repeated  heatings,  and  can  be  highly  rec- 
ommended at  least  for  home  use.  It  consists  essentially  of 
making  the  vegetables  slightly  acid,  thus  rendering  them  as 
easy  to  sterilize  as  fruits.  Lemon  juice  or  vinegar  may  be  used 
to  acidify  brines.  If  ordinary  cider  vinegar  is  used,  twice  the 
amounts  given  for  lemon  juice  are  needed  (page  615). 

Directions  for  canning  fruit  by  the  cold-pack  method.  * 
(1)  Select  well-gro'UTL,  firm,  and  not  overripe  fruit;  (2)  if  possible,  can 
fruit  on  the  day  that  it  is  picked;  (3)  wash,  pare,  or  otherwise  prepare  the 
fruit,  removing  all  bruised  or  decayed  parts;  f  (4)  if  there  is  much  variation 
in  size,  grade  the  fruit  so  that  the  contents  of  each  jar  will  be  as  nearly 

*  The  open-kettle  method  is  preferred  by  many  persons  for  canning 
fruits,  especially  strawberries,  pineapples,  and  quinces. 

t  Skins  of  peaches,  plums,  and  pears  may  be  removed  by  the  following 
method.  Bring  2  gallons  of  water  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  to  it  1  pound 
of  concentrated  lye.  Lower  the  fruit  into  the  boiling  solution  in  a  wire 
basket  or  a  thin  cloth.  Let  it  remain  for  from  20  to  30  seconds.  Remove 
the  fruit  quickly,  and  immerse  it  in  cold  water.  Then  wash  the  peeling 
from  the  fruit. 


612 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


uniform  as  possible;  (5)  if  food  is  to  be  blanched,  blanch  or  scald  in  boiling 
water  a  small  quantity  at  a  time  (page  606),  the  number  of  minutes  re- 
quired for  blanching  being  given  in  Table  LIII;  do  not  blanch  cherries, 
berries,  or  plums;  (6)  if  blanched  food  is  to  be  cooled,  chill  the  outside  of 
the  blanched  fruit  by  immersing  it  for  a  brief  period  in  a  large  vessel  of 
cold  water  (page  607),  and  do  not  attempt  to  cool  the  fruit  thoroughly  by 
this  cold  dip;  (7)  pack  the  fruit  firmly  in  clean,  tested  jars  to  within  inch 
of  the  top;  (8)  fill  the  jars  to  within  3^  inch  of  the  top  with  boiling  sirup 
or  hot  water  (see  directions  for  preparing  sirups  on  page  607);  (9)  place 
a  new  rubber  on  each  jar,  adjust  the  cover  of  the  jar,  and  partly  seal  it, 
and  if  using  the  hot-water  bath,  warm  the  cover  before  adjusting  it; 
(10)  sterilize  the  jars  for  the  required  length  of  time  (Table  LIII);  if  the 
hot-water  bath  is  used,  immerse  the  jars  in  sufficient  boiling  water  to 
cover  the  tops  to  the  depth  of  about  1  inch,  and  do  not  begin  to  time  the 
sterilizing  until  the  water  boils  over  the  jars;  keep  the  water  boiling 
during  the  sterilizing  period;  (11)  remove  the  jars  from  the  sterilizer,  seal 
them,  and  invert  them  to  cool,  avoiding  a  draft  on  the  jars,  but  cooling 
them  as  rapidly  as  possible;  (12)  wash  the  jars  thoroughly,  label  them, 
and  set  them  away,  storing  red  fruits  in  a  dark  place  to  prevent  loss  of 
color. 

Directions  for  canning  vegetables  hy  the  cold-pack  method. 

(1)  Choose  vegetables  that  are  young  and  have  made  a  quick  growth. 
(2)  Do  not  use  very  dirty  vegetables.  (3)  Can  vegetables  as  soon  as  pos- 
sible after  they  have  been  picked.  This  is  particularly  necessary  with 
asparagus,  peas,  beans,  and  corn.  (4)  Clean  the  vegetables,  and  prepare 
them  as  for  cooking.  (5)  Grade  the  vegetables,  if  there  is  much  variation 
in  size,  so  that  the  contents  of  each  jar  will  be  as  nearly  uniform  in  size 
as  possible.  (6)  Do  not  attempt  to  handle  too  large  a  quantity  of  vegetables 
at  once,  especially  in  hot  weather.  The  various  steps  in  the  canning  process 
must  be  followed  in  rapid  succession  to  prevent  loss  of  flavor  from  what 
commercial  canners  know  as  flat  sour.  (7)  Blanch  or  scald  the  vegetables 
by  plunging  them  into  a  large  quantity  of  boiling  water  (page  606).  The 
blanching  or  scalding  should  be  continued  just  long  enough  to  make  the 
vegetables  sufficiently  flexible  to  pack  easily,  or  to  loosen  the  skins  suffi- 
ciently to  allow  them  to  be  quickly  scraped  off  (Tables  LIII  to  LV) .  Spin- 
ach and  certain  other  delicately  flavored  greens  should  be  blanched  in  steam 
instead  of  in  boiling  water,  until  they  are  thoroughly  shrunken.  (8)  Chill 
the  outside  of  the  vegetables  by  immersing  them  quickly  in  a  large  vessel 
of  cold  water.  Do  not  attempt  to  cool  the  vegetables  thoroughly  by  this 
cold  dip.  This  step  may  be  omitted.  (9)  Pack  the  vegetables  firmly  in 
clean,  tested  jars  to  within  inch  of  the  top.  (10)  Add  to  1  teaspoonful 
of  salt  to  each  pint  jar.  Some  vegetables  are  improved  by  the  addition  of 
a  small  amount  of  sugar  as  well.  (11)  Fill  the  jars  with  boiling  water  to 
within  3^  inch  of  the  top.    (12)  Place  a  new  rubber  on  each  jar,  adjust  the 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


613 


cover,  and  partly  seal  it.  Place  the  jars  in  a  hot-water  bath  or  a 
pressure  cooker.  (13)  Sterilize  the  jars  for  the  required  length  of  time 
(Tables  LXIII-LXV).  Acid  vegetables,  such  as  tomatoes,  may  usually 
be  successfully  steriUzed  by  the  one-day,  or  continuous,  method.  It  is 
recommended  that  peas,  beans,  corn,  succotash,  greens,  asparagus, 
pumpkin,  and  squash  be  sterilized  by  the  three-day,  or  intermittent, 
method,  unless  a  steam  pressure  canner  is  used.  If  the  hot-water 
bath  is  used,  the  boihng  water  should  cover  the  tops  of  the  jars  to 
the  depth  of  about  1  inch.  Do  not  begin  to  time  the  steriUzing 
until  the  water  boils  over  the  jars.  Keep  the  water  boihng  during  the 
sterilizing  period.  (14)  Remove  the  jars  from  the  sterihzer,  seal  them, 
and  invert  them  to  cool.  Avoid  a  draft  on  the  jars,  but  cool  them  as 
quickly  as  possible,  especially  in  canning  peas,  beans,  corn,  asparagus,  and 
greens.  (15)  If  the  continuous  method  of  sterihzation  has  been  used,  the 
canning  is  now  completed.  Wash  the  jars,  label  them,  and  set  them  away. 
If  the  intermittent  method  is  being  used,  let  the  cans  stand  for  24  hours 
at  room  temperature,  and  sterilize  them  for  1  hour  on  the  second  day. 
Remove  the  jars  from  the  sterilizer,  cool  them,  and  let  them  stand  for 
24  hours  at  room  temperature.  Sterilize  them  for  1  hour  on  the  third  day. 
It  is  safer  to  loosen  the  wire  clamps  each  time  before  returning  the  jars 
to  the  hot-water  bath.  Cool  the  jars,  wash  them,  label  them,  and  set 
them  away.  Red  vegetables  should  be  stored  in  a  dark  place  to  prevent 
loss  of  color. 

Directions  for  canning  meat  hy  the  cold-pack  method. 

Continuous  sterilization  is  necessary  for  meats  canned  by 
the  cold-pack  method.  A  fowl  weighing  2  pounds  when  dressed 
should  make  a  pint  can  of  solid  meat  and  a  pint  of  stock  thick 
enough  to  jelly.  A  fowl  weighing  3  pounds  should  fill  1}^  pint 
cans. 

(1)  Select  meat  in  perfect  condition.  SteriHzing  will  not  render  spoiled 
meat  harmless.  Tough  cuts  lend  themselves  well  to  canning.  (2)  Trim 
off  dark-colored  or  strong-smelhng  portions,  and  surplus  fat.  Wipe  the 
meat  well  with  a  damp  cloth.  Save  the  bones  for  soup  stock.  (3)  Free 
the  meat  from  bones,  and  cut  it  in  pieces  suitable  for  packing  in  the  jars. 
Tough  cuts  of  beef  are  sometimes  passed  through  a  meat-chopper  before 
they  are  canned.  (4)  If  additional  flavor  is  desired,  partly  brown  the  meat 
in  a  heavy  frying  pan,  using  a  small  quantity  of  fat.  (5)  Pack  the  raw 
meat  solidly  into  tested  clean  glass  jars,  filling  them  to  within  %  inch  of 
the  top.  (6)  Add  3^  to  1  teaspoonful  of  salt  for  each  pint  of  meat,  and 
other  seasoning,  such  as  chopped  onion,  celerj^  leaves,  or  bay  leaf,  if  de- 
sired. Add  no  water.  (7)  Adjust  the  rubbers  and  the  covers,  and  partly 
seal  the  jars.    (8)  Sterilize  the  jars  in  the  pressure  cooker. 


614 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


For  soup  stock  all  bones  and  trimmings  of  the  canned  meats 
should  be  covered  with  cold  water,  salted,  and  slowly  simmered 
until  the  flesh  drops  in  shreds  from  the  bones,  and  the  liquid, 
or  stock,  is  concentrated.  Seasoning,  such  as  onion  and  a  bit 
of  celery  leaf,  may  be  added.  The  stock  may  be  strained  if  de- 
sired, reheated,  and  boiled  for  10  minutes.  It  should  then  be 
poured  into  scalded  jars,  and  sterilized  for  1  hour  on  each  of  two 
successive  days. 


TABLE  LIII. — A  Time-Table  for  Canning  Fruits,  Acid  Vegetables, 
AND  Meats  by  the  Single,  or  Continuous,  Period  of  Heating 


Food 


Apple  cider  

Apples  

Apricots  

Blackberries,  dewberries 

Cherries  

Fruit  juices  

Grapes  

Huckleberries  

Peaches  

Pears  

Pineapples  

Plums  

Quinces  

Raspberries  

Rhubarb  

Strawberries  

Sauerkraut  

Tomatoes  

Tomatoes  and  corn  .  .  . 

Tomato  juice  

Meat  


Time  of 
blanching 


Minutes 

1-2 
1-2 


1-2 
1-2 


1-2 
1-2 


1-2 


Time  of  cooking  in  pint  jars 


If  the  hot-water 
hath  is  used 


Minutes 
20 

20-30 

16 

16 

16 

20 

16 

16 

16 

20 

60 

16 

60 

16 

16 

16 
120 

22 

90 

20 
300 


//  the  pressure 
cooker  is  used 
(S  pounds) 


Minutes 
12 
10 
10 

6 
10 
10 
10 

8 
10 
10 
40 
10 
40 

8 
10 
10 
60 
10 
60 
15 
180 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


615 


TABLE  LIV. — A  Time-Table  for  Canning  Vegetables  by  Three 
Periods  of  Heating,  or  the  so-called  Intermittent  Method 


Food 

1  11716  OJ 

Time  of  cooking  in  pint  jar  f 

n  1  nm  f*  h  'I'n  n 
ULUjiiLiliOH/y 

First  day 

Second  and  third  days 

Minutes 

Minutes 

Minutes 

Asparagus  

5 

60 

.  60  • 

Beans  

5 

60 

60 

*  Beets  

6-10 

60 

60 

Carrots  

6-10 

ou 

du 

Cauliflower  

5 

60 

60 

Corn  

O— iU 

60-75 

60-75  (depending  on  closeness 

of  pack) 

Parsnips  

6-10 

60 

60 

Peas  

5 

60 

60 

Pumpkin  

75 

75 

Spinach  and 

5 

75-90 

75-90  (depending  on  closeness 

other  greens 

of  pack) 

Squash  

75 

75 

Succotash  

60 

60 

*  A  good  method  for  canning  beets  is  to  cook  them  in  the  open  kettle 
before  they  are  pared  until  they  are  almost  done,  and  then  pare  them  and 
steriHze  them  for  1  hour  in  the  jars. 

t  For  quart  jars  10  to  15  minutes  additional  time  should  be  allowed 
each  day;  for  2-quart  jars  30  minutes  should  be  added. 


616 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


TABLE  LV. — A  Time-Table  for  Canning  Vegetables  with  the 
Pressure  Cooker  or  by  the  Single  Period  of  Heating  in  the 
Water  Bath 


Time  of 
blanching 


Minutes 
5 
5 

6-10 
6-10 
5 

5-  10 

6-  10 
5 


Time  of  cooking  in  pint  jars 


When  the  hot  water 
hath  is  used  (a 
risky  method  for 
the  vegetables 
starred) 


Minutes 
180  {not 
180  {not  advised) 
120-180 
120-180 
180 

180  {not  advised) 
180 

180  {not  advised) 
200 


200  {not 
200 

180  {not  advised) 
300 


When  the  pressure 
cooker  is  used  {the 
only  really  safe 
method) 

10  pounds 


Minutes 
40 
30 
40 
40 
40 
60 
40 
30 
40 

40 
40 
40 
60 


FOOD  PRESERVATION  617 


TABLE  LVI. — Use  of  Acid  in  Canning  Vegetables  (Page  610)  * 


\/  pnpfn  h  If 
V  tyyot/U/Ut/V 

PvopovtioTi  of  acid 

Pcviod  of 
stcvilizcitioTi 
at  212°  F. 

5  ounces  lemon  juice  to  1  gallon  brine"]* 

1  hour 

O  JL 

1  y2,  nU  111  o 

r        c(             (C           u      u    1         ((  u 

U  X 

±  ^ 

A            CI                 ((              ((        (C     1            ((  IC 

1  Vi/^nTG 

7                                            1  dirnn 

1                                                                      J-                      oil  tl^j 

made  of  3^  pound  sugar  and  1 3^ 

ounce  salt  to  the  gallon,  used  to 

cover  corn 

1  ^2  hours 

Equal  quantity  of  tomatoes 

1  hour 

Peas  

7  ounces  lemon  juice  to  1  gallon  brine, 

1  hour 

made  of  2-1/3  ounces  salt  and  33^ 

ounces  sugar  to  the  gallon 

Pumpkin  

4  ounces  lemon  juice  and  2-2/3  ounces 

1  ]/2  hours 

salt  to  the  gallon 

*  Data  from  Circ.  158,  by  W.  V.  Cruess,  Agr.  Exp.  Sta.,  Univ.  of  Calif, 
t  Two-per  cent  brine :  about  6  tablespoons  salt  to  1  gallon  water. 

Storing  canned  foods. 

Canned  food  should  be  set  aside  for  two  or  three  days  before 
being  stored,  and  then  as  a  means  of  special  precaution,  it 
should  be  tested  as  follows:  Loosen  the  clamp  and  grasp  the  jar 
by  the  edges  of  the  glass  top.  If  the  can  leaks  or  if  decomposi- 
tion has  set  in,  the  top  will  come  off.  If  the  top  stays  on,  tighten 
the  clamp  again  and  the  food  is  ready  for  storage.  If  the  top 
comes  off,  reject  that  can  of  food. 

Red  fruits  and  vegetables  should  be  stored  in  a  dark  place, 
as  light  destroys  the  color,  leaving  the  food  unattractive  in  ap- 
pearance. If  the  jar  and  its  contents  have  been  made  abso- 
lutely sterile,  and  the  jar  is  entirely  air-tight,  the  food  will  not 
spoil  if  held  in  a  warm  place.  If  spoiling  does  occur,  it  will  be 
due  to  one  of  the  following  causes:  (1)  some  flaw  in  the  can, 
which  makes  it  a  so-called  ^^slow-leaker";  (2)  the  presence  of 
some  micro-organisms  that  have  survived  the  cooking  process,  in 
spite  of  all  care;  (3)  a  drying-out  of  the  rubber,  and  hence  the 
breaking  of  the  seal. 


618 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


In  some  factories  where  foods  are  canned  in  glass  jars,  racks 
are  made  for  holding  the  jars  upside  down  in  an  inclined  position, 
thus  keeping  the  liquid  constantly  in  the  top  of  the  can  and  pre- 
venting the  rapid  drying  of  the  rubber. 

Score-cards  for  judging  foods  canned  in  glass. 
The  following  score-card  may  be  used  when  it  is  not  feasible 
to  open  the  jars: 

Quality  of  fruit,  judged  by  appearance  (50) 


Uniformity  of  shape,  size,  ripeness   20 

Retention  of  shape,  size   20 

Color   10 

.  Quality  of  liquid  (40) 

Clearness   20 

Color   20 

Appearance  of  jar  (10) 

Cleanness   5 

Label:  size,  color,  position,  legend   5 


100 

The  following  score-card  may  be  used  when  it  is  feasible  to 
open  the  jars: 


Appearance  of  jar  (10) 

Cleanness   5 

Label:  size,  color,  position,  legend  •   5 

Quality  of  fruit  (60) 

Uniformity  of  shape,  size,  ripeness   10 

Retention  of  shape  and  size,  due  to  selection  and  proper  cooking  10 

Color   5 

Flavor   20 

Texture:  suitability  of  variety  for  canning,  overripeness,  under- 

ripeness,  density  of  sirup   15 

Quality  of  hquid  (30) 

Flavor:  richness,  lack  of  fermentation   20 

Color   5 

Clearness   5 


100 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


619 


Fruit  juices. 

Properly  extracted  fruit  juices  contain  much  of  the  sugar  / 
and  the  body-building  and  body-regulating  constituents  of  the 
whole  fruit,  as  well  as  much  of  its  flavor  and  its  pectin  (jelly- 
making  substance).  Hence  fruit  juices  have  a  real  food  value. 
They  also  furnish  an  easy  and  often  inexpensive  means  of 
variety  in  the  daily  meals,  in  both  warm  and  cold  weather. 
Fruit  drinks  (page  471),  jellied  desserts,  pudding  sauces,  ice 
creams,  and  ices  are  easily  made  from  bottled  fruit  juices,  which 
may  often  be  extracted  from  parts  of  the  fruits  that  would  other- 
wise be  discarded.  Juices  from  pineapples,  rhubarb,  straw- 
berries, blackberries,  raspberries,  blueberries,  currants,  cherries, 
peaches,  plums,  apples,  pears,  quinces,  grapes  (red,  white,  and 
black),  are  especially  good  for  these  purposes. 

Juice  may  be  extracted  from  discarded  parts  of  fruit;  from 
left-over  portions  of  fruit  prepared  for  the  table;  from  skins 
and  pits  of  peaches;  from  skins,  cores,  and  seeds  of  apples;  from 
pulp  discarded  after  making  jelly  and  marmalade;  from  well- 
scrubbed  skins  of  oranges  and  lemons  used  in  making  lemon- 
ade; from  cores,  skins,  and  eyes  of  well-scrubbed  pineapples. 

The  following  procedure  may  then  be  carried  out : 

Cover  the  pulp  or  parings  with  cold  water,  bring  the  mixture 
slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  simmer  it  until  the  juice  is  extracted 
(15  or  20  minutes),  and  strain  it.  Boil  the  strained  juice  for 
5  minutes,  and  pour  it  into  jars  or  glass  bottles  that  have  been 
sterilized  by  boiling  for  20  minutes,  filling  the  jars  to  over- 
flowing. Seal  the  jars  immediately.  Stopper  the  bottles  with 
corks  sterilized  and  dried  for  shrinkage,  and  make  an  air-tight 
seal  by  dipping  the  cork  and  the  lip  of  the  bottle  into  hot  paraf- 
fin. If  desired,  add  1  cupful  of  sugar  for  each  6  cupfuls  of  fruit 
juice  before  boiling  the  juice.  In  this  case,  be  sure  to  note  on 
the  label  the  proportion  of  sugar  used. 

A  rich  clear  juice  may  be  obtained  by  allowing  well-washed 
juicy  fruits  to  stand  overnight  with  alternate  layers  of  sugar. 
If  enough  sugar  is  added  the  next  morning  (a  little  more  than, 
pound  for  pound)  the  strained  juice  may  be  sealed,  without 
cooking,  in  sterilized  bottles,  stoppered  with  sterilized  corks. 


620  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


The  making  of  jelly. 

Currants,  sour  apples,  crab-apples,  raspberries,  blackberries, 
blueberries,  partly  ripened  grapes,  and  quinces  make  good 
jelly;  but  peaches,  pears,  strawberries,  and  cherries  are  de- 
ficient in  certain  substances  necessary  to  produce  a  jelly  of  good 
consistency  and  flavor.  This  deficiency  may  be  overcome, 
by  combining  these  juices  with  those  that  make  good  jelly. 

A  fruit  juice  that  is  good  for  making  jelly  is  one  that  contains 
pectin,  the  essential  jelly-making  substance.  Juices  extracted 
by  cooking  are  apparently  far  richer  in  this  substance  than 
juices  extracted  from  the  raw  fruits.  To  determine  whether 
a  juice  contains  pectin,  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  hot  juice 
should  be  mixed  thoroughly  with  an  equal  volume  of  grain 
alcohol  (90  to  95  per  cent),  and  the  mixture  should  be  cooled. 
If  pectin  is  present,  a  gelatinous  mass,  which  can  be  gathered 
on  a  spoon,  will  appear  in  the  liquid. 

Acid  is  another  requisite  for  juices  that  make  good  jelly. 

To  extract  juice  from  a  very  juicy  fruit,  such  as  currants  or 
raspberries,  place  the  clean  fruit,  washed  if  necessary,  in  an 
enameled  preserving  kettle,  add  just  enough  water  to  prevent 
burning — perhaps  1  cup  to  4  or  5  quarts  of  fruit — cover  the 
kettle,  and  place  it  where  the  fruit  will  cook  rather  slowly, 
stirring  it  occasionally  with  a  wooden  or  a  silver  spoon.  When 
the  simmering  point  is  reached,  crush  the  fruit  further  with  a 
well-soaked  wooden  masher,  and  continue  heating  it  until  the 
whole  mass  is  cooked  through.  Allow  the  juice  to  drain  through 
a  jelly  bag  or  a  double  piece  of  cheese-cloth  into  an  earthen- 
ware or  enameled  receptacle  for  half  an  hour  or  more.  It  is 
better  not  to  combine  the  first  extraction  with  the  later.  If 
later  extractions  are  to  be  made,  it  is  well  to  reserve  a  pectin 
test  of  first  extraction  as  a  standard  for  concentrating  ones  later. 

When  the  first  extraction  is  fairly  well  drained  out,  generally 
within  half  an  hour,  transfer  the  pulp  to  the  preserving  kettle, 
cover  it  with  water,  stir  it  well,  and  cover  the  kettle.  Bring 
the  juice  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  and  simmer  it  for  15  or  20 

*  Condensed  from  Principles  of  Jelly  Making,  by  N.  E.  Goldthwaite, 
Univ.  of  III,  Bull.  15. 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


621 


minutes.  Strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag  as  for  the  first  extraction. 
If  the  alcohol  test  indicates  much  pectin,  make  a  third  extrac- 
tion. Generally  only  three  extractions  can  be  made,  but  some 
fruits  will  allow  five.  The  second  and  later  extractions  may  be 
combined.  The  boiling  juice  may  be  sealed  in  sterilized  bottles 
and  made  into  jelly  in  the  winter. 

If  a  less  juicy  fruit,  such  as  apples  or  quinces,  is  used,  wash 
the  fruit,  discard  any  unsound  parts,  cut  it  into  small  pieces, 
including  the  skins  and  the  seeds,  cover  it  with  water,  and  ex- 
tract the  juice  according  to  the  directions  for  juicy  fruits,  mak- 
ing more  than  one  extraction  if  possible. 

For  currants  and  partly  ripened  grapes,  the  correct  propor- 
tion of  sugar  for  the  first  extraction  is  likely  to  be  equal  volumes 
of  sugar  and  juice.  For  red  raspberries,  blueberries,  and  black- 
berries, and  for  fruits  to  which  much  water  must  be  added, 
such  as  sour  apples,  crab-apples,  and  cranberries,  the  correct 
proportion  by  volume  for  the  first  extraction  is  Hkely  to  be 
three-fourths  as  much  sugar  as  juice.  The  quantity  of  sugar 
required  is  determined  by  the  quantity  of  pectin  present  in 
the  juice.  If  too  little  sugar  in  proportion  to  pectin  is  used,  the 
jelly  is  likely  to  be  tough;  if  too  much  sugar  is  used,  the  jelly 
is  soft  and  does  not  hold  its  shape.  The  remedy  for  having 
used  too  much  sugar  is  to  add  more  juice  and  thus  supply  more 
pectin.  It  is  better  to  err  on  the  side  of  too  little  rather  than 
too  much  sugar.  The  second  and  third  extractions  may  be 
mixed.  The  mixture  should  be  boiled  down  until  the  juice 
approximates  in  pectin-content  the  richness  of  the  first  ex- 
traction, as  shown  by  the  pectin  test.  The  juice  should  then 
be  measured,  and  the  sugar  should  be  added  in  the  proportion 
suggested  for  the  first  extraction. 

The  proportion  of  sugar  to  juice,  the  proportion  of  pectin 
in  the  juice,  and  possibly  the  proportion  of  acid  in  the  juice, 
govern  the  length  of  time  for  boiling  the  juice  to  produce  good 
jelly.  Boiling  from  8  to  10  minutes  may  be  sufficient  for  currant 
juice,  while  from  20  to  30  minutes  may  be  required  for  juice 
from  raspberries,  blackberries,  apples,  and  the  like.  The  juice 
in  any  case  should  be  boiled  rapidly. 


622  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


The  sugar  should  be  added  to  the  juice  when  the  period  of 
boihng  is  about  half  completed.  If  the  sugar  is  hot,  the  cooking 
process  is  not  delayed.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  scorch 
the  sugar,  however.  The  juice  should  be  stirred  fairly  con- 
stantly, after  the  sugar  is  added,  in  order  to  prevent  burning. 

A  good  jelly  test  is  to  allow  juice  to  drop  from  the  side  of  a 
spoon  and  when  it  sheets  off,  or  breaks  off,  to  stop  the  cooking. 

If  jellies  are  to  stand  any  length  of  time  before  using,  they 
should  be  sealed  properly  from  the  air.  After  the  glasses  have 
been  filled  completely  with  the  hot  jellies,  they  should  be  set 
in  a  cool  place  for  the  contents  to  harden.  Jellies  slightly  under- 
cooked may  be  covered  with  panes  of  glass  and  allowed  to 
harden  in  the  sun.  In  either  case,  when  the  jellies  are  well  set, 
the  glasses  should  be  filled  with  hot  paraffin — the  jelly  will  have 
shrunken,  leaving  space  for  this — not  merely  melted  paraffin, 
but  hot  paraffin  so  that  all  germs  that  may  have  fallen  on  the 
surface  of  the  jelly  may  be  killed  and  future  trouble  with  them 
obviated.  The  glasses  should  be  closed  with  hot,  clean  tin 
covers,  and  kept  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

Jams. 

The  method  of  making  jams  is  to  cook  the  fruit  until  tender, 
add  sugar  in  the  proportion  of  equal  quantities  or  three-fourths 
as  much  as  fruit,  and  cook  the  mixture  until  a  drop  will  jelly 
on  a  cold  dish.  It  should  then  be  poured  into  sterilized  jars 
and  sealed. 

PRESERVATION  OF  MEAT  * 

Directions  for  canning  meat  are  given  on  page  613. 

Keeping  fresh  meat 
All  meat  to  be  preserved,  either  fresh  or  cured,  should  be 
thoroughly  cooled  after  the  animal  is  slaughtered,  for  unless 
this  is  done  the  meat  will  not  cure  well  nor  will  it  be  possible  to 
keep  it  in  a  fresh  state  for  any  length  of  time. 

*  Seulke,  K.  J.  The  Curing  of  Meat  and  Meat  Products  on  the  Farm, 
Cornell  Reading-Course  for  the  Farm^  Bull.  119, 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


623 


In  cold  weather  meat  may  be  kept  by  hanging  it  in  a  dark, 
cool  place,  where  dogs,  cats,  and  rodents  cannot  reach  it.  If  a 
temperature  below  40°  F.  is  maintained,  meat  may  be  kept  for 
weeks;  but  with  the  temperature  alternating  between  low  and 
high,  it  will  not  keep  well.  Meat  that  is  frozen  will  keep  in- 
definitely so  long  as  it  remains  frozen.  Alternate  freezing  and 
thawing  will  spoil  the  flavor  and  cause  early  decomposition. 
It  is  important  that  the  meat  be  kept  in  a  place  where  the  air  is 
dry.  A  dark,  cool  cellar,  or  an  attic  that  is  dry  and  free  from 
odors,  is  the  proper  place  for  keeping  meat  on  the  farm. 

Meat  packed  in  snow  may  be  kept  for  a  considerable  length 
of  time.  The  meat  should  first  be  frozen  hard.  After  it  is 
frozen,  an  earthen  jar  or  a  barrel  should  be  provided,  and  a 
thick  layer  of  snow  should  be  tamped  tightly  in  the  bottom  of 
this.  On  the  suovn^  a  layer  of  meat  is  packed,  and  covered  with 
another  layer  of  snow.  Care  must  be  taken  to  have  a  thick 
layer  of  snow  between  the  meat  and  the  inner  s-urface  of  the 
receptacle.  Another  layer  of  meat  is  then  put  on,  and  another 
layer  of  snow,  and  so  on  until  all  the  meat  is  packed  or  the  jar  is 
almost  full,  when  a  heavy  covering  of  snow  should  be  put  on 
top  and  covered  with  a  block  or  some  other  object  in  order  to 
keep  out  rats  and  mice.  The  meat  may  be  taken  out  as  needed, 
and  the  snow  should  be  repacked  on  top  each  time. 

Another  method  commonly  used  with  pork  and  sausage  is 
partly  to  cook  the  meat  by  frying  it  on  both  sides,  pack  it  in  a 
jar,  and  pour  hot  lard  over  it  in  order  to  seal  the  whole  and  keep 
out  air.  The  meat  may  be  taken  out  as  needed.  Care  should 
be  taken  each  time  to  melt  the  lard  that  is  taken  off,  and  to  pour 
it  back. 

Curing  meats 

As  has  already  been  stated,  meat  should  be  thoroughly  cooled 
before  it  is  cured.  It  is  equally  important,  however,  that  the 
meat  shall  not  be  in  a  frozen  condition,  for  if  it  is  frozen  the 
brine  or  pickling  solution  cannot  penetrate  freely  and  the  meat 
will  not  be  of  even  flavor  throughout. 

The  vessels  used  for  curing  meats  are  of  various  sorts  and 


624  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


sizes,  depending  on  the  amount  of  meat  to  be  cured  and  the 
expense  to  which  the  owner  cares  to  go.  Large  earthen  jars 
or  crocks  give  the  best  results,  but  these  are  somewhat  expen- 
sive— 8  to  10  cents  a  gallon  of  capacity — and  they  are  very 
easily  broken  if  not  carefully  handled.  Tight  hardwood  barrels 
may  be  used.  New  barrels  or  barrels  that  have  contained 
molasses  should  be  used,  never  vinegar  or  kerosene  barrels  un- 
less they  have  been  burned  out  on  the  inside.  If  molasses 
barrels  are  used  they  should  be  thoroughly  scalded. 

The  principal  preservatives  used  are  salt,  sugar,  and  molasses, 
and  their  combinations.  Chemicals  forbidden  by  law  and  those 
known  to  have  a  bad  effect  on  health  should  not  be  used.  Salt 
preserves  meat  through  its  astringent  and  slightly  germicidal 
action.  It  hardens  the  muscle  fibers  and  draws  the  moisture 
from  the  meat.  Sugar  and  molasses  have  an  almost  opposite 
effect.  They  cause  the  retention  of  the  moisture  of  the  meat, 
and  keep  the  muscle  fibers  soft  and  tender.  Therefore,  salt  and 
sugar  are  commonly  used  together,  as  the  sugar  gives  a  desir- 
able flavor  and  prevents  the  hardening  action  of  the  salt.  Salt- 
peter is  often  used  to  retain  the  natural  reddish  color  of  the 
meat.  It  is  detrimental  to  health  and  should  be  used  sparingly 
if  at  all. 

Curing  pork, 

SUGAR-CURED  HAMS,  BACONS,  AND  TONGUES 

Method  I.  After  the  meat  has  been  thoroughly  cooled,  the  carcass  may 
be  cut  up  and  cured.  Sugar-cured  pork  is  preferable  to  dry-cured  or  plain 
salt  pork  because  of  its  pleasant  flavor  and  because  the  meat  is  not  so  dry 
and  hard.  Beef  tongues  may  be  cured  in  the  same  pickle  with  the  pork. 
All  the  pork  carcass  may  be  cured  except  the  loins,  which  are  used  fresh 
for  chops  and  roasts,  the  spare-ribs,  which  are  used  fresh,  and  the  trim- 
mings, which  are  used  for  lard  and  sausage.  The  hams,  shoulders,  and 
bacons  are  sugar-cured,  and  the  fat  backs  are  dry-cured  or  pickled  in  a 
plain  salt  pickle. 

Before  the  meat  is  placed  in  pickle  or  salt,  all  corners  and  ragged  edges 
should  be  cut  off  and  used  for  sausage  and  lard.  If  they  are  left  on  they 
will  be  wasted,  for  they  will  be  thoroughly  soaked  by  the  pickle  and  will 
be  of  no  use. 

Rub  the  pork  thoroughly  with  salt  and  pack  it  in  a  cool  place  overnight. 
The  next  day  pack  it  in  a  barrel  or  an  earthen  jar,  with  the  heaviest  hams 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


625 


and  shoulders  at  the  bottom,  the  lighter  hams  and  shoulders  next,  and  the 
bacons  and  tongues  at  the  top. 

For  every  100  pounds  of  meat  weigh  out  10  pounds  of  salt,  pounds 
of  brown  sugar,  and  2  ounces  of  saltpeter.  Rub  these  together  thoroughly, 
taking  care  that  the  saltpeter  is  finely  powdered.  Dissolve  the  whole  by 
stirring  it  into  4  gallons  of  boiling  water.  Allow  this  brine  to  cool  thor- 
oughly, and  then  pour  it  over  the  meat.  If  it  does  not  entirely  cover  the 
meat,  add  more  w^ater.  The  brine  should  cover  the  meat  at  all  times. 
The  meat  may  be  weighted  down  with  a  block  if  necessary,  for  if  it  is 
not  covered  the  projecting  meat  will  decompose  in  a  short  time. 

If  the  brine  shows  signs  of  fermenting  during  the  curing  process,  it 
should  be  drawn  off,  boiled,  and  cooled,  and  then  poured  back  on  the 
meat. 

The  bacons  and  tongues  may  be  taken  from  the  pickle  after  four  to  six 
weeks,  and  after  being  washed  in  warm  water  they  may  be  hung  in  the 
smoke-house  and  smoked.  The  lighter  hams  and  shoulders  will  be  ready 
to  take  out  of  the  pickle  in  six  to  eight  weeks,  and  the  heavier  ones  at  the 
end  of  the  eighth  week. 

Method  II.  Another  recipe  for  sugar-cured  hams,  bacons,  and  tongues 
that  has  given  good  results  is  as  follows: 

Pack  the  thoroughly  cooled  meat  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  on  a  table  that 
has  previously  been  covered  with  a  layer  of  salt.  Sprinkle  salt  over  each 
piece  of  meat,  and  add  alternate  layers  of  meat  and  layers  of  salt  until  all 
is  packed. 

AUow  the  meat  to  remain  in  the  salt  for  eight  to  ten  days,  and  then 
wash  off  the  salt  with  lukewarm  water.  The  meat  is  now  read}"  to  go 
into  the  pickle,  which  is  mixed  as  follows:  To  18  gallons  of  water  add  5 
pounds  of  bro'^Ti  sugar,  a  small  handful  of  saltpeter,  and  1  tablespoonful 
of  ginger.  Stir  the  mixture  until  the  solids  are  all  dissolved,  and  then  stir 
in  12  pounds  of  salt.  Stir  until  all  the  salt  is  dissolved.  This  amount 
can  be  increased  or  decreased  according  to  the  amount  of  meat  to  be 
pickled.  Ordinarily  one-fourth  of  this  mixture  will  be  enough  for  100 
pounds  of  pork. 

The  pickle  should  test  75°  with  the  hydrometer  test.  If  a  hydrometer 
is  not  at  hand,  drop  a  fresh  egg  into  the  pickle;  if  the  egg  floats  ahnost 
submerged,  the  brine  is  of  the  proper  strength. 

Pack  the  meat  in  a  barrel  or  a  jar,  with  hams  and  shoulders  weighing 
over  10  pounds  on  the  bottom,  those  weighing  less  than  10  pounds  next, 
and  the  bacon  strips  and  tongues  on  top.  Pour  the  brine  over  the  meat 
so  that  it  is  all  covered,  and  weight  it  with  a  block  so  that  none  of  the 
meat  projects  from  the  brine. 

The  bacons  and  tongues  may  be  removed  from  the  brine  at  the  end  of 
three  weeks,  the  Hghter  hams  and  shoulders  at  the  end  of  five  weeks,  and 
the  heaviest  ones  after  six  to  seven  weeks.  After  the  meat  is  removed 
from  the  brine,  it  should  be  washed  in  warm  water  in  order  to  remove  the 


626 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


crust  of  brine  and  any  scum  that  may  have  formed,  and  after  drying  for 
an  hour  or  more  it  may  be  hung  in  the  smoke-house  and  smoked. 

BRINE  SALT  PORK 

Pack  thoroughly  cooled  pork  in  a  barrel  or  a  jar  after  having  rubbei 
each  piece  with  salt.  The  following  day  weigh  out  for  each  100  pounds 
of  meat  10  pounds  of  salt  and  2  ounces  of  saltpeter.  Mix  these,  and 
dissolve  the  mixture  in  4  gallons  of  boiling  water.  Allow  this  brine  to 
cool  thoroughly,  and  then  pour  it  over  the  meat  in  the  barrel.  Place  a 
block  on  top  in  order  to  keep  the  meat  submerged. 

Fat  backs  are  ordinarily  used  for  salt  pork  cured  in  brine,  but  any  part 
of  the  carcass*  may  be  cured  in  this  way.  The  meat  cures  best  when  cut 
in  strips  or  in  6-inch  squares. 

The  meat  should  be  left  in  the  brine  and  be  taken  out  as  needed. 

DRY-CURED  PORK 

To  dry-cure  meat  involves  more  work  than  to  brine-cure  it,  although 
it  is  a  little  less  expensive  in  some  cases.  It  is  less  difficult  merely  to 
salt  the  meat,  pack  in  a  jar,  and  pour  the  brine  over  it,  than  to  rub  the 
meat  several  times  with  the  dry  mixture.  Also,  the  brine-cured  meat 
is  not  so  dry  and  is  a  little  more  palatable.  Brine-cured  meat  can  be 
kept  anywhere  as  long  as  it  is  kept  cool;  dry-cured  meat,  on  the  other 
hand,  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  moist  place,  in  order  to  insure  even  curing. 
With  brine-cured  meat  there  is  no  danger  from  rats  and  other  vermin; 
but  flies  must  be  kept  away  from  meat  cured  in  either  way. 

In  dry-curing  pork,  weigh  out  for  every  100  pounds  of  pork  6  pounds 
of  salt,  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  and  2  ounces  of  saltpeter,  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Divide  the  mixture  into  three  portions.  Rub  one  portion 
on  the  meat  the  first  day,  and  pack  the  meat  in  a  barrel.  Leave  it  for 
three  days.  At  the  end  of  three  days  take  the  meat  out  of  the  barrel, 
rub  it  with  a  second  portion  of  the  mixture,  and  repack  it.  Three  days 
later  rub  the  meat  with  the  third  and  last  portion  of  the  mixture,  and 
repack  it.  Let  it  stay  in 'the  barrel  for  ten  to  fourteen  days.  Then  remove 
it,  wash  it  in  warm  water,  and  smoke  it. 

PICKLED  pigs'  feet 

Take  well-scraped  pigs'  feet,  with  the  toes  removed,  and  soak  them 
in  cold  water  overnight.  The  next  morning  put  them  in  a  kettle, 
add  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  let  them  cook  until  soft.  This 
wiU  require  about  five  hours.  Salt  should  be  added  to  the  water  dur- 
ing the  cooking.  When  the  pigs'  feet  are  soft,  remove  them  from  the 
water,  split  them,  pack  them  in  an  earthen  jar,  and  pour  hot  vinegar 
over  them.  Spices  of  various  kinds  may  be  added  to  the  vinegar  if 
desired. 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


627 


HEAD-CHEESE 

Head-cheese  is  made  from  the  part  of  the  head  of  the  hog  that  would 
otherwise  be  wasted.  When  properly  prepared  it  is  a  delicacy.  The 
feet,  as  well  as  the  head,  may  be  used  for  this  purpose. 

Skin  the  hog's  head,  remove  the  eyes  and  the  brain,  and  spUt  the  head 
through  the  midhne,  or  down  the  center  of  the  forehead  and  the  nose. 
Usually  the  jowls  are  removed  and  salted.  Put  the  head  pieces  into  a 
cooker,  add  enough  water  to  cover  the  meat,  and  boil  the  whole  until 
the  meat  parts  come  readily  from  the  bone.  Remove  the  meat,  separate 
it  from  the  bones,  and  chop  it  finely.  Remove  the  liquid  from  the  kettle 
and  save  it  for  further  use.  After  the  meat  is  chopped,  return'  it  to  the 
kettle,  pour  on  enough  of  the  Hquid  to  cover  the  meat,  and  allow  it  to 
cook  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  While  this  final  cooking  is  taking  place, 
season  the  mixture  with  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste. 

Put  the  cooked  meat  and  the  liquid  that  remains  into  jars,  pans,  or 
a  cold-meat  press,  place  a  weight  on  top,  and  allow  the  meat  to  cool. 
It  will  then  be  soUd  and  can  be  sUced  and  eaten  immediately. 

LARD 

Lard  is  made  from  the  fat  of  the  hog  carcass.  Three  grades  of  lard 
are  obtained  from  three  parts  of  the  body:  the  best  grade,  leaf  lard,  is 
made  from  the  leaf,  or  layer  of  fat  lying  inside  the  abdominal  wall;  the 
second  grade  is  made  from  the  backs,  the  sides,  and  the  pieces  trimmed 
from  the  various  cuts;  the  third  and  poorest  grade  is  made  from  the  in- 
testinal, stomach,  and  pluck  fats.  The  last  is  much  stronger  than  the 
other  two  and  should  not  be  mixed  with  them.  On  the  farm  the  first 
two  grades  are  usually  made  together,  and  sometimes  all  three  are  made 
together. 

Cut  the  fat  into  bits  about  1  inch  square,  and  trim  out  all  particles 
of  meat  as  they  give  an  unpleasant  burned  flavor  to  the  lard  and  are 
the  first  to  scorch  if  the  kettle  becomes  too  hot.  Put  the  pieces  of  fat 
into  a  kettle,  and  add  a  little  water,  not  more  than  a  quart,  to  keep  the 
fat  from  burning  until  some  of  the  lard  has  melted. 

Keep  the  kettle  hot  until  the  cracklings  are  brown  and  rise  to  the  top. 
Skim  off  the  cracklings,  and  press  out  the  lard  that  remains  in  them. 
Draw  off  the  melted  lard,  and  add  a  little  baking-soda  to  help  whiten 
it. .  The  lard  should  be  stirred  while  it  is  cooHng,  in  order  to  make  it  as 
white  as  possible. 

Curing  heef. 

Beef  is  not  so  commonly  cured  as  pork;  but  when  corned  it 
takes  the  place  of  fresh  beef  during  periods  of  the  year  when 
fresh  beef  does  not  keep  well,  and  also  offers  a  method  of  pre- 
serving part  of  the  meat  until  it  is  needed  and  thus  saving  a 


628 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


waste  or  loss  of  meat,  since  it  is  impossible  for  one  family  to 
use  an  entire  beef  carcass  in  the  fresh  state.  Dried  beef  com- 
mands a  high  price  on  the  market.  It  also  offers  a  method  of 
preserving  meat  for  future  use.  Jerked  beef  is  made  in  the  drier 
regions  of  the  West.  The  climate  of  the  eastern  states  is  not 
dry  enough  nor  warm  enough  to  cure  it  successfully,  and  it  is 
not  so  palatable  as  dried  beef. 

CORNED  BEEF 

Method  I.  Since  corned  beef  is  used  for  practically  the  same  dishes 
as  fresh  beef,  only  wholesome  untainted  meat  should  be  used  for  this 
purpose.  Naturally,  the  choicer  the  meat  that  is  put  into  the  pickle, 
the  better  will  be  the  meat  that  comes  out.  The  cheaper  cuts  of  beef 
are  ordinarily  used  for  corning,  because  the  choicer  cuts  are  more  palatable 
in  a  fresh  condition.  Plate,  flank,  shoulder,  chuck,  cross  ribs,  and  rump 
are  most  commonly  used  for  corning. 

Frozen  meat  should  not  be  put  into  the  brine;  neither  should  the  brine 
be  frozen  while  the  meat  is  in  it. 

Weigh  the  meat.  Cut  it  in  pieces  about  6  inches  square.  Place  a 
layer  of  salt  on  the  bottom  of  the  vessel  in  which  the  meat  is  to  be  packed, 
cover  this  with  a  layer  of  meat,  and  sprinkle  a  layer  of  salt  over  the  meat. 
Add  alternate  layers  of  meat  and  of  salt  until  the  meat  is  packed.  Seven 
to  9  pounds*  of  salt  will  usually  be  enough  for  100  pounds  of  meat.  Allow 
the  meat  to  stand  in  the  salt  overnight.  On  the  following  morning  make 
a  brine,  using  5  pounds  of  sugar,  ounces  of  baking-soda,  and  3  ounces 
of  saltpeter  for  every  100  pounds  of  meat.  Dissolve  these  ingredients  in 
4  gallons  of  boiling  water.  Allow  the  brine  to  cool  thoroughly  before 
pouring  it  over  the  meat.  If  more  or  less  than  100  pounds  of  meat  is 
to  be  cured,  use  these  proportions  for  the  brine.  If  4  gallons  of  brine  does 
not  entirely  cover  100  pounds  of  meat,  water  may  be  added.  The  meat 
should  be  weighted  down  with  a  block  or  a  clean  stone,  since  any  part 
that  is  not  covered  with  the  brine  will  decompose  very  quickly. 

If  the  brine  shows  signs  of  fermentation  in  warm  weather,  it  should  be 
drawn  off,  boiled,  strained  through  a  clean  cloth,  and,  after  it  is  thoroughly 
cooled,  poured  back  on  the  meat. 

The  meat  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  At  the  end  of  thirty 
days  the  meat  will  be  ready  for  use.  If  the  pieces  are  larger  than  6  inches 
square,  a  longer  time  may  be  allowed,  according  to  the  size  of  the  pieces. 

Method  II.  The  formula  given  under  Method  II  (page  625)  for  sugar- 
cured  hams  and  bacons  may  be  used  for  corned  beef  also. 

Pressed  corned  beef.  After  the  corned  beef,  prepared  as  described 
above,  has  been  in  the  pickle  for  the  required  length  of  time,  it  may  be 
taken  out,  and,  after  the  brine  is  washed  off,  may  be  used  in  the  same 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


629 


way  as  fresh  beef.  If  desired,  it  may  be  made  into  pressed  corned  beef. 
This  is  prepared  as  follows:  Remove  the  beef  from  the  pickling  solution, 
wash  it  with  warm  water,  and  place  it  in  a  kettle.  Keep  it  barely  covered 
with  water  at  all  times,  and  boil  it  for  two  hours.  Salt  and  pepper  may  be 
added  while  the  meat  is  cooking,  but  usually  there  is  enough  salt  in  the 
meat  from  the  brine.  Take  the  meat  from  the  kettle  and  pack  it  in  pans 
or  in  a  cold-meat  press.  Strain  the  broth  through  cheese-cloth  or  mushn 
several  times,  replace  it  on  the  stove,  boil  it  down  to  one-half  its  original 
volume,  pour  it  over  the  meat  in  the  pans,  and  allow  the  whole  to  harden 
in  a  cool  place.  After  the  meat  has  hardened  it  may  be  sliced  and  eaten 
without  further  preparation. 

DRIED  BEEF 

Dried  beef  is  usually  made  from  the  round,  although  any  heavily  muscled 
part  may  be  used  for  this  purpose.  The  inside  of  the  round  makes  the 
tenderest  meat.  In  cutting  meat  for  dried  beef,  the  muscles  should  be 
separated  into  their  natural  divisions.  When  cured  and  smoked  in  this 
way  they  can  be  sliced  across  the  grain,  and  the  meat  is  much  tenderer 
than  would  otherwise  be  the  case. 

A  jar  or  a  barrel  is  the  best  receptacle  in  which  to  pack  the  meat  when 
curing  it.  To  each  100  pounds  of  well-cooled  beef  weigh  out  6  pounds  of 
fine  salt,  3  pounds  of  granulated  or  browm  sugar,  and  2  ounces  of  saltpeter. 
Mix  these  thoroughly,  without  wetting,  and  divide  the  m.ixture  into  three 
portions.  Set  two  portions  away  for  future  use,  and  rub  the  other  portion 
into  the  meat.  Pack  the  meat  in  the  jar  and  leave  it  for  three  days.  At 
the  end  of  the  three  days  take  the  meat  from  the  jar,  but  leave  in  the 
jar  the  sirup  that  has  formed.  Rub  the  meat  with  another  portion  of  the 
mixture,  repack  it,  and  leave  it  for  three  days.  Remove  it  from  the  sirup, 
rub  it  with  the  last  portion  of  the  mixture,  and  repack  it  in  the  sirup  in 
the  jar.  After  three  days  remove  the  meat  and  hang  it  in  the  smoke-house, 
where  it  should  be  smoked  until  it  is  dry.  It  should  then  be  kept  in  a 
dry  place  until  it  is  used.  The  longer  it  is  smoked  and  the  drier  it  is  kept, 
the  longer  it  will  remain  good. 

PICKLED  BEEF  TONGUES 

The  recipe  given  on  page  625  for  sugar-cured  hams  and  bacons  may  be 
used  also  for  pickling  beef  tongues. 

Curing  mutton  and  lamb. 

Mutton  and  lamb  are  seldom,  if  ever  cured  on  the  farm.  In 
the  larger  packing  houses,  mutton  is  sometimes  partly  cured  in 
a  plain  salt  pickle,  and  then  cooked  and  packed  in  cans,  which 
are  soldered  shut  while  the  meat  is  still  hot. 


630 


A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 


Sausages. 

Very  good  sausages  can  be  made  from  the  scraps  that  would 
otherwise  be  wasted  in  the  butcher  shop  and  on  the  farm.  Such 
pieces  as  cheeks,  trimmings,  jowls,  pork  hearts  and  tongues, 
mutton  hearts  and  tongues,  and  many  other  scraps  that  are 
seldom  used  fresh,  will  make  a  very  palatable  sausage  and  will 
serve  for  this  purpose  as  well  as  any  other  meat. 

HAMBURG  STEAK 

This  is  the  simplest  form  of  sausage  made,  and  consists  simply  of  fresh 
beef  run  twice  through  a  grinder.  It  may  be  seasoned  after  the  first  grind- 
ing, or  left  unseasoned.  It  is  never  stuffed  into  casings.  Any  part  of  the 
beef  carcass  may  be  used  for  hamburg  steak,  but  the  best  quality  is  made 
from  the  round. 

MIXED  SAUSAGE 

This  is  made  by  mixing  beef  and  pork  in  such  proportions  as  to  suit 
the  taste  of  the  consumer.  This  kind  of  sausage  is  usually  made  if  the 
consumer  dislikes  the  extremely  fat  undiluted  pork  sausage.  It  is  seldom 
stuffed  into  casings,  but  is  usually  left  loose  and  made  into  pats  when 
fried.  The  following  proportions  of  beef  and  pork  give  excellent  results: 
2  parts  lean  pork;  3  parts  lean  beef;  1  part  fat  pork. 

PORK  SAUSAGE 

Pork  sausage  should  be  made  from  clean,  fresh  pork  scraps,  or  the 
cheaper  parts  of  the  meat.  The  meat  should  be  in  the  proportion  of 
three  parts  of  lean  pork  to  one  of  fat  pork.  This  should  be  run  through 
the  grinder,  spread  out  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sage,  and 
reground.  Usually  1 ounces  of  fine  salt,  ounce  of  ground  black  pepper, 
and  14  ounce  or  less  of  ground  sage,  for  6  pounds  of  meat,  makes  a  satis- 
factory seasoning. 

Pork  sausage  either  is  used  loose,  being  made  into  pats  and  fried,  or 
is  stuffed  into  pork  casings  and  double-linked.  If  left  loose  it  can  be 
packed  in  jars  until  used.  If  it  is  to  be  kept  for  a  long  period,  it  may 
be  run  into  cloth  bags  and  smoked  for  a  short  time.  The  linked  sausage 
may  also  be  smoked  for  a  short  time  in  order  to  preserve  it.  If  it  is  to  be 
kept  until  summer,  it  may  be  partially  cooked,  packed  in  a  jar,  and  cov- 
ered with  hot  lard. 

Smoking  meats  on  the  farm 
The  smoking  of  cured  meats  aids  in  their  preservation  because 
the  smoking  process  closes  the  pores  of  the  meat  or  casings,  and 
the  creosote  is  objectionable  to  some  insects. 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


631 


Smoking  gives  a  desirable  flavor  to  the  meat  if  the  proper 
kind  of  fuel  is  used.  Green  hickory  is  best,  but  other  hard- 
woods or  corn-cobs  may  be  used  if  hickory  is  not  available. 
Resinous  woods  should  never  be  used,  as  they  give  an  objection- 
able flavor  to  the  meat.  Corn-cobs  are  commonly  used,  but 
are  not  so  satisfactory  as  hickory  because  of  the  fine  ash  that 
is  forced  upward  by  the  heat  and  settles  on  the  meat,  giving  it  a 
dirty  appearance.  Juniper  berries  and  fragrant  woods  are  some- 
times added  to  the  fire,  to  give  desired  flavors. 

Proprietary  smoking  preparations  are  not  to  be  recommended, 
as  a  whole,  because  they  hasten  the  curing  process  and  do  not 
give  as  desirable  a  flavor  as  does  the  ordinary  smoking  process. 
Some  of  these  preparations  also  contain  substances  that  cause 
digestive  disorders  when  the  meat  is  eaten.  This  is  especially 
true  of  the  various  dips  used  to  take  the  place  of  smoking. 

The  smoke-house. 

The  smoke-house  may  be  of  any  size  or  construction,  to  suit 
the  needs  of  the  owner.  If  the  house  is  to  be  used  only  once  and 
only  a  small  amount  of  meat  is  to  be  smoked,  a  large  barrel 
or  a  dry  goods  box  may  be  used.  If  the  house  is  to  be  perma- 
nent, it  is  often  worth  while  to  build  it  of  brick,  concrete,  or 
stone,  in  order  to  avoid  all  risk  of  loss  by  fire.  A  frame  house 
may  be  used,  provided  that  care  is  taken  to  confine  the  fire  to 
the  center  of  the  floor,  or  to  build  it  in  a  large  iron  kettle,  so 
that  it  will  not  spread  to  the  house.  The  safest  method  of 
smoking  meat,  and  at  the  same  time  of  preventing  the  smoke- 
house from  getting  too  hot,  is  to  dig  a  small  furnace  pit  in  the 
ground  about  10  or  12  feet  from  the  smoke-house,  and  have  the 
smoke  carried  from  this  to  the  house  through  a  galvanized  pipe 
laid  on  top  of  the  ground  and  covered  so  that  it  wiU  not  be 
crushed. 

The  method  of  construction  of  the  smoke-house  should  allow 
ample  ventilation,  and  there  should  be  some  means  of  regulating 
the  draft.  This  can  be  done  by  having  the  outlet  for  the  smoke 
under  the  eaves  and  the  intake  for  the  air  at  the  furnace,  if  this 
is  used;  or,  if  the  furnace  or  outdoor  fire  method  is  not  used, 


632  A  MANUAL  OF  HOME-MAKING 

an  adjustable  air  intake  may  be  attached  to  the  door  and  cov- 
ered with  a  heavy  screen  to  keep  out  flies  and  rats. 

For  ordinary  farm  use,  the  house  should  be  about  8  feet 
square  and  8  to  10  feet  high,  so  that  the  meat  will  hang  6  to  7 
feet  above  the  fire  and  near  enough  to  the  roof  to  get  the  benefit 
of  the  thick  smoke  and  yet  be  below  the  level  of  the  ventilator. 

The  smoking  process. 

Meat  that  has  been  pickled  should  be  removed  from  the 
brine  at  least  a  day  before  it  is  to  be  smoked,  and  after  being 
washed  in  warm  water  it  should  be  hung  up  to  dry  until  it  is 
ready  to  smoke.  The  meat  should  be  hung  in  the  smoke-house, 
with  no  two  pieces  touching  each  other,  and  then  a  fire  should 
be  started,  heating  the  house  gradually.  The  meat  should  be 
kept  warm,  but  not  hot  enough  to  dry  the  outside  too  much  and 
prevent  the  smoke  from  penetrating.  There  should  be  as  much 
smoke  as  possible,  but  no  more  heat  than  is  necessary. 

In  winter  the  fire  should  be  kept  burning  constantly  until  the 
smoking  is  completed,  for  if  the  meat  is  allowed  to  cool  too 
much  the  smoke  will  not  penetrate  it.  Meat  that  has  been 
frozen  should  not  be  put  into  the  smoke-house  until  it  is  thawed. 

In  warm  weather  there  is  danger  of  getting  the  meat  too  hot, 
and  for  this  reason  it  is  good  practice  to  let  the  fire  die  down 
every  other  day  until  the  meat  has  become  properly  smoked.  . 

After  the  meat  has  become  properly  colored,  it  should  be 
cooled  (but  not  allowed  to  freeze)  by  opening  the  ventilator  on 
the  door,  leaving  it  open  until  the  meat  hardens.  It  may  then 
be  packed  away  for  future  use.  If  warm  hams  are  piled  one 
upon  another  before  they  are  cooled,  sweating  occurs  where  the 
two  touch,  and  decomposition  soon  sets  in. 

The  meat  may  be  kept  in  the  smoke-house  for  a  time  if  the 
weather  is  not  too  warm,  biit  the  house  should  be  kept  free  from 
flies. 

If  the  smoked  meat  is  to  be  used  immediately,  no  further 
care  is  needed;  but  if  it  is  to  be  held  until  summer  it  should  be 
wrapped  in  clean,  white  paper,  and  a  covering  of  muslin  sewed 
on  to  protect  it  from  insects.    It  should  be  kept  where  it  will 


FOOD  PRESERVATION 


not  be  subject  to  extreme  change  of  temperature  or  to  damp- 
ness. 

If  the  meat  is  to  be  kept  for  a  considerable  length  of  time  and 
absolute  safe-keeping  is  desired,  the  following  directions,*  should 
be  followed :  "For  absolute  safe-keeping  for  an  indefinite  period 
of  time,  it  is  essential  that  the  meat  be  thoroughly  cured.  After 
it  is  smoked  and  has  become  dry  on  the  surface  it  should  be 
wrapped  in  parchment  paper;  or  old  newspapers  will  do  where 
parchment  cannot  be  had.  Then  inclose  in  heavy  muslin  or 
canvas,  and  cover  with  yellow  wash  or  ordinary  lime  white- 
wash, glue  being  added.  Hang  each  piece  out  so  that  it  does 
not  come  in  contact  with  other  pieces.  Do  nob  stack  in  piles. 

"Recipe  for  yellow  wash. — For  100  pounds  hams  or  bacon 
take:  3  pounds  barytes  (barium  sulphate;  0.06  pound  glue; 
0.08  pound  chrome  yellow  (lead  chromate) ;  0.40  pound  flour. 

"  Half  fill  a  pail  with  water  and  mix  in  the  flour,  dissolving 
all  lumps  thoroughly.  Dissolve  the  chrome  in  a  quart  of  water 
in  a  separate  vessel  and  add  the  solution  and  the  glue  to  the 
flour;  bring  the  whole  to  a  boil  and  add  the  barytes  slowly, 
stirring  constantly.  Make  the  wash  the  day  before  it  is  re- 
quired. Stir  it  frequently  when  using,  and  apply  with  a  brush.'' 

*  Farmers'  Bull.  183,  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agr. 


INDEX 


Accounts,  household,  177 

balancing,  180 

closing,  181 

equipment  for,  177 

forms  of,  177-180,  183-189 

summaries  of,  181 
Acetylene,  201 
Acids, 

effect  on  textiles,  249,  283 

in  canning  vegetables,  610,  617 

stains  from,  287 
Adulteration, 

cotton,  308 

linen,  313 

silk,  322 

wool,  317 
Air  gas,  201 
Albatross,  312,  319 
Albumin,  410 
Alkalis, 

effect  on  textiles,  249,  283 

in  laundering,  255,  256 

stains  from,  288 
Allspice,  161 
Almonds,  160,  421 
Alpaca,  316,  319 
Alum,  in  laundering,  258 
Aluminum  utensils,  232 
Ammonia, 

for  softening  water,  252 

in  laundering,  254 
Aniline  blue  stain,  289 
Anaemia,  430 
Apples,  160,  417,  422 

in  fireless  cookers,  219 

storage  of,  584 
Apricots,  160,  422 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 
Architecture, 

elements  of  rural,  22 

relation  to  landscape,  21 
Armhole  measurements,  339 


Arrangement, 

of  furnishings,  90 

of  kitchen  utensils,  230 
Arrows,  as  finishes,  369 
Artichokes,  421 
Asphalt  stain  (see  tar),  303 
Asparagus,  421 
Astrakhan,  319 
Awning,  312 

Bacon,  160,  419 

sugar-cured,  624 
Bacteria,  579 

Baking  batters  and  doughs,  479 

utensils  for,  225 

yeast  bread,  495 
Baking  powder,  161 

composition,  476 

homemade,  476 

in  batters  and  doughs,  476 

in  pastry,  491 

proportion  to  be  used,  476 

storage,  476 
Bananas,  160,  417,  422 
Barley  and  rice  bread,  504 
Barley  bread,  503 

Barley,  oat,  and  rice  flour  bread,  504 

Barley,  pearl,  159 

Basting, 

collar,  358 

rules  for,  353 

skirt,  358 

sleeves,  355-358 

tailor's,  350 

waist,  354 
Bathroom, 

care  of,  123,  124 
Batiste,  311 

Batters  and  doughs,  473 
baking,  479 
baking  powder,  476 
classification,  473 


635 


636 


INDEX 


Batters,  drop  batters,  473 
eggs,  476 
filling  pans,  479 
flour,  474 
formulas,  482 
ingredients,  474 
liquid,  474 
mixing,  478 
pour  batters,  473 
shortening,  477 
soda,  474 
soft  doughs,  474 
stiff  doughs,  474 
sugar,  477 

utensils  for  baking,  478 
Bavarian  creams,  571 
Bay-window,  31 
Bean  bread,  503 
Beans,  161,  416,  421 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 
Bedford  cord,  312,  319 
Bedrooms, 

character  of,  99 

size  of,  31 
Beds,  123 
Beechnuts,  424 
Beef,  420,  421 

corned,  628 

cuts  of,  511,  517 

dried,  629 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 

pickled  tongue,  629 

selection  of,  510 
Beets,  161,  418,  421 
Belt,  foundation,  359 
Bench,  for  laundry,  280 
Bengaline,  323 
Benzine,  in  laundering,  255 
Berry  stain,  cooked,  292 

fresh,  291 
Beverages,  465-472 

cocoa,  470 

coffee,  465 

fruit  juices,  472 

tea,  468 

Bias  bands,  for  undergarments,  372 

Biliousness,  429 

Biscuits,  baking  powder,  480 

frozen  dessert,  574 
Blackberries,  422 
Blanching,  607 


Blankets,  washing  of,  270 
Blanket-wash,  270 
Blau  gas,  201 
Blood  stain,  288 
Blueberries,  422 
Bluing, 

in  laundering,  261,  266 

stain,  289 
Boiling  point  of  water,  136 
Bolivia  cloth,  319 
Borax, 

for  softening  water,  251 

in  laundering,  255,  258 
Boric  acid,  580 

Botulinus  in  canned  foods,  610 
Bouillon,  515 
Bows,  406 
Braid, 

for  undergarments,  372 
Bran,  for  laundering,  254,  256 
Brazil-nuts,  424 
Bread,  yeast,  416,  424,  495 

baking,  501 

barley,  503 

barley  and  rice,  505 

barley,  oat,  and  rice  flour,  504 

bean,  503 

breadcrumb,  503 

brown,  in  fireless  cooker,  219 

corn,  503 
.    fermentation,  499 

flour,  495 

ingredients,  495 

liquid,  498 

mixer,  499 

mixing  and  kneading,  498 
pans  for  baking,  225 
potato,  503 
proofing,  499 
recipes,  501 
rice,  503 
rolled  oats,  503 
"rope,"  500 
salt-rising,  505 
shaping,  499 
sponge  method,  498 
straight-dough  method,  498 
wheatless,  504 
white,  159,  430,  50l,  503 
yeast,  497 
Brilliantine,  317 


INDEX 


637 


Brioche,  483 
Broadcloth,  319 
Brocade,  323 
Brocatel,  323 
Brushes, 

care  of,  124 

for  kitchen  use,  228 
Buckles  for  hats,  404 
Buckram,  320 

Building  materials  for  body,  407,  409 

Bunting,  319 

Burlap  for  ceilings,  43 

Burying, 

method  of  storing  vegetables,  586 
Butcher's  linen,  315 
Butter,  159,  419,  423 

as  growth  promoter,  408 

as    source    of  growth-promoting 
factor,  412 

cakes,  484 

food  value  compared  with  milk,  427 

in  batters  and  doughs,  477 

in  pastry,  491 

place  in  meals,  427 

preservation  of,  582 

stain,  289 
Buttermilk,  423,  426 

in  batters  and  doughs,  474 
Butternuts,  424 

Butter  plate,  placing  on  table,  242 
Butter  substitutes,  427,  428,  477 
Buttonholes,  bound,  370 

Cabbage,  101,  418,  421 

as    source    of  growth-promoting 
factor,  412 

as  source  of  lime,  411 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 

storage  of,  587 
Cabinet,  kitchen,  117 
Cakes,  423,  483-489 

butter,  484 
.  chocolate  in,  485 

classification,  483 

cocoa  in,  485 

fillings,  486 

flavoring,  486 

frostings,  486 

fruits  in,  485 

ingredients,  484 

light,  482 


Cakes,  nuts  in,  485 

pans  for  baking,  225 

rich,  482 

sponge,  482,  483 

yeast,  483 
Calcimine, 

for  ceilings,  43 

for  walls,  40 
CaHco,  311 
Calories, 

measure  for  fuel  value  of  foods,  412 
portions  of  foods  furnishing,  416- 
424 

Calves-foot  jelly,  421 
Cambric,  311,  315,  371 
Candles,  200 

Candle  wax,  colored,  stain,  290 
Candy, 

in  diet,  431 

stages  in  cooking,  578 

temperature  for  cooking,  577 

to  make  fine-grained,  578 

utensils  for  cooking,  227,  578 
Canned  foods,  buying  of,  445-454 

cans,  450 

color,  446 

corn,  449 

extra,  448 

extra  standard,  448 

fancy,  448 

flavor,  446 

form,  447 

fruits,  450 

grading,  445 

labels,  451 

lima  beans,  449 

locality  where  grown,  446 

medium  of  packing,  447 

okra,  449 

peas,  449 

pie  fruit,  447 

preparation,  447 

pulp,  448 

puree,  448 

quality,  448 

quantity  value,  452 

seconds,  448 

sirups,  447 

size  of  fruit  or  vegetable,  446 
soaked,  448 
spinach,  449 


638 


INDEX 


Canned  foods,  standard  grade,  447 
•  string  beans,  449 

suggestions  for  consumer,  452 

swells,  451 

texture,  446 

tomatoes,  449 

trade  names,  451 

trade  terms,  448 
Canners,  601 
Canning, 

acid  in   canning  vegetables,  611, 

617  • 
air  in  can,  600 
blanching,  606 
botulinus,  610 
cold  dip,  607 
equipment,  601 
fruit  by  cold-pack,  609,  613 
fruit  juices,  617 

growth  of  micro-organisms,  600 
hot-water  canners,  601 
jams,  622 
jars,  604 
jelly,  620 

lye  for  removing  skins,  611 
meat  by  cold-pack,  613 
methods,  608 
principles  of,  599 
rubbers,  606 

safety  in  use  of  canned  foods,  609 

score  cards,  618 

sirup,  607 

soup  stock,  614 

standards  for,  608 

steam  cookers,  601 

steam-pressure  canners,  601,  602 

storing,  617 

testing  jars,  605 

time-tables,  614-617 

vegetables  by  cold-pack,  612,  613 

water-seal  canners,  601,  602 
Cans,  450 
Cantaloupe,  422 
Canvas,  312 

for  ceilings,  43 
Capers,  563' 

Carbon  dioxide,  leavening,  474 

Carpets,  75 

Carrots,  161,  418,  421 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 
Carving  fish,  532 


Casein,  410,  426 
Cashmere,  319 
Catchup,  423 
Cauliflower,  421 
Ceiling, 

beamed,  43 

color  extended  to  side  wall,  33 
metal,  44 
treatment  of,  43 
wood,  44 
Celery,  161,  418,  421 

as    source    of  growth-promoting 

factor,  412 
seed,  161 

source  of  lime,  411 
storage  of,  588 
Cellar,  11 
floor,  121 

for  fruit  storage,  583 

for  storage,  121 

for  vegetable  storage,  584 

sanitary  condition  of,  121 

walls,  121 
Centigrade  scale,  132 
Cereals, 

as  regulating  food,  411 

as    source    of  growth-promoting 
factor,  412 

as  source  of  iron,  411 

as  source  of  phosphorus,  411 

as  source  of  protein,  410 

cooking  of,  506-509 

food  value  of,  430 

in  diet  of  nursing  mother,  435 

in  double  boiler,  507 

in  fireless  cooker,  507 

place  in  meals,  430 

starch-rich  food,  408 

time  of  cooking,  506 

to  pop  corn,  509 

uses  for  left-over,  508 

utensils  for  cooking,  507 

variations  in  cooking,  508 
Chairs,  measurements  of,  80 
Chalk,  tailor's,  350 
Challis,  319 
Chambray,  312 
Chard,  Swiss,  418 

as    source    of  growth-promoting 
factor,  412 

as  source  of  lime,  411 


INDEX 


639 


Charlottes,  571 
Cheese,  159,  420.  423 

source  of  lime,  411 

source  of  protein,  410 

use  in  meals,  427 
Cheese-cloth,  312 
Chemicals,  for  stain  removal,  285 
CheniUe,  323 
Cherries,  422 
ChervH,  564 
Chestnuts,  424 
Cheviot,  320 

Chicken,  420,  421,  see  poultry 
fat  in  batters  and  doughs,  477 
in  fireless  cooker,  219 

Chiffon,  323 
renovation,  403 

Children, 

adapting  meals  for,  431 
need  for  fine  foods,  412 

Chimney  seat,  31 

China  closets,  116 

China  silk,  323 

Chinchilla.  320 

Chintz,  312 

Chives,  564 

Chocolate,  159,  419,  424,  470,  471 

in  cakes,  485 

nibs,  471 

stain,  290 
Choux  paste,  483 
Chroma,  45,  46,  47 
Cinnamon?  161 
Clam  chowder,  424 
Clams,  421 
Cleaning,  121-128 

apparatus,  126 

closet,  125 

lamps,  126 

materials  for,  125 

piano  case,  128 

stoves,  126 

windows,  127 
Clocks, 

alarm,  142 

care  of,  141 

moving  of  pendulum,  138 
regulating,  139 
setting,  139 

to  correct  striking  of,  140 
types,  138 


Closet, 

cleaning,  125 

kitchen,  112-118 
Closings  for  undergarments,  379 
Cloth  darning,  389 
Clothes  lines,  care  of,  266 
Clothes-pins,  care  of,  267 
Clothing,  307-406 

amount  of  material,  342 

basting  garments,  353 

belt,  foimdation,  359 

cloth  darning,  389 

color,  331-333 

cutting  garments,  352 

design,  330,  331 

economy  in,  369 

equipment  for  sewing  room,  334 

finishes  for  garments,  364 

fitting  garments,  360 

for  children,  381-388 

for  girls,  384-388 

making  of,  330-390 

making  of  infant's,  382 

making  skirts  even,  363 

materials  for  infants',  382 

patching,  388 

patterns,  340 

placing  pattern  on  material,  344 
preparation  of  materials,  336 
preventing  seams  from  sagging,  364 
readymade  vs.  home-made,  330 
seams,  358 

selection  for  children,  381 

stocking  darning,  391 

taking  of  measurements,  338 

textiles,  307-327 
Cloves,  161 
Cluny  lace,  372 
Coal  range,  210 

firing,  210 

insulation,  210 

kindling  fire,  210 
Cocoa,  159,  419,  424,  470 

chocolate,  471 

chocolate  nibs,  471 

composition,  471 

directions  for  making,  471 

forms,  470,  471 

in  cakes,  485 

shells,  471 

stain,  290 


640 


INDEX 


Cocoanuts,  424 
Codfish,  420,  421 
Cod-liver  oil, 

as  growth  promoter,  408,  409 
Coffee,  159,  465 

adulteration,  465 

cafe  au  lait,  467 

care,  465 

clearing  the  liquid,  467 
composition,  465 
development  of  flavors,  466 
directions  for  making,  466 
egg-white  for  clearing,  467 
French  drip,  467 
iced,  467 

percolator,  466,  467 

pots,  care  of,  467,  468 

stain,  290 
Cold  dip,  in  canning,  607 
Colds,  458 
Collar, 

as  finish,  364 

basting,  358 

measurements,  339 
Color, 

as  background,  49 

characteristics  of,  45 

chroma,  45,  46,  47 

cool,  use  of,  46 

for  farmhouse,  21 

for  interiors,  49 

hue,  45,  46 

importance  of,  45 

in  clothing,  331-333 

influences  of,  46 

in  hats,  399 

in  kitchens,  118,  119 

in  linen  fabrics,  313 

intensity,  45,  46,  47 

of  ceihng,  51 

of  floors,  51 

of  furnishings,  47-51 

of  walls,  50 

reaction  to,  45 

running,  stain  from,  290 

setting  of,  268 

value,  45,  47 

warm,  use  of,  46 
Colored  clothing. 

ironing  of,  275 

washing  of,  267-269 


Consomme,  424 

Constipation,  care  and  feeding  for,  459 

causes,  459 

diet  for,  430 

drugs,  459 

lack  of  water,  431 

laxative  foods,  460 

salt  water,  457 

treatment  and  diet,  460 
Cookies,  sheets  for  baking,  226 
Cooking, 

cereals,  506-509 

eggs,  534-542 

processes  of,  211 

sugar,  576 

utensils  for,  225 

vegetables,  543 
Copper  utensils,  233 
Cork  carpet,  77 
Corn,  421 

bread,  501 

flakes,  416,  424 

meal,  159,  219,  416,  424 

puffed,  416 

sirup,  in  baking,  477 

starch,  159,  257,  416 

to  pop,  509 
Cornices,  43 
Cottage  cheese,  426 
Cottolene  in  pastry,  491 
Cotton, 

adulteration,  308 

fiber,  307 

mercerization,  309 

quality  of  materials,  307 

standard  materials,  310-312 

tests  for,  326-329 

uses  of  materials,  310 
Cottonseed  oil  in  baking,  477 
Court  bouillon,  529 
Cover,  individual,  at  table,  242 
Covert,  320 
Crackers,  159,  424 
Crack-filler  for  floors,  45 
Cracklings,  520 
Cranberries,  160,  422 
Crash,  312,  313 
Cream,  159,  419,  423 

as  growth  promoter,  409,  412 

in  baking,  477 

place  in  meals,  427 


INDEX 


641 


Cream,  sour,  in  baking,  47 -t 

stain,  299 

whipped,  571 
Cream  of  wheat,  in  tireless  cooker,  219 
Cream  of  tartar,  161 
Creosote  oil  stain  {see  tar),  303 
Crepe.  312,  371 
Crepe  de  chine,  323 
Cretonne,  312 
Crinoline,  312 
Crochet  lace,  372 
Cross-ventilation  in  house,  15,  23 
Cucumbers,  418,  422 
Cuffs,  364 

Cups,  common  drinking,  123 
Curing  meat,  623 
Currants,  160 
Curtains  {see  draperies) 

lace,  washing  of,  272 
Custard,  423,  537 

baked,  537 

English,  538 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 

molded,  538 

roj^al,  538 

soft,  538 

Dado,  35 
Damask,  315 

cotton,  312 
Dampers  in  stoves,  208 
Darning,  cloth,  389 

bias  tear,  390 

large  hole,  391 

straight  tear,  390 

three-cornered  tear,  390 
Darning,  stocking,  391 
Dates,  160,  417,  422 
Denim,  312 
Density,  153 

influence  of  temperature  on,  156 
Design, 

in  clothing,  330,  331 

of  farmhouse  exterior,  21 
Desserts,  570-575 

Bavarian  creams,  571 

biscuits,  574 

charlottes,  571 

frappes,  572 

freezing,  575 

frozen,  572-574 


Desserts,  frozen  puddings,  574 

fruits,  570 

gelatin,  570 

granites,  573 

ice  creams,  573 

junket,  572 

mousses,  574 

packing  frozen,  575 

parfaits,  574 

sherbets,  572 

sorbets,  573 

souffles,  frozen,  574 

sponges,  571 

syllabubs,  572 

water  ices,  572 

whipped  cream,  571 

whips,  572 
Dextrin,  in  laundering,  259 
Diagonal,  321 
Diaper,  312 
Dietary,  balanced,  425 
Diet,  for  the  sick  {see  food  for  the  sick) 
Dimensions,  of  rooms,  33 
Dimity,  312 
Dining  room, 

care  of,  123 

character  of,  99 

size  of,  31 
Dishwashing,  122 
Doilies, 

placing  on  table,  241 

shape  for  table,  241 
Doors, 

as  part  of  wall,  37 

in  exterior  design,  25 

location  in  kitchen,  103 

number  in  kitchen,  104 

number  in  plan,  9 

number  of,  37 

position  of,  16 

relation  to  furnishing,  37,  42 
Dormer  ^-indow,  31 
Double  boiler 

for  cereals,  507 

selection  of,  229 
Doughs  and  batters,  473 
Doughnuts,  423 
Drafts  in  stoves,  208 
Draperies,  57-74 

color  of,  61,  62 

for  bedroom,  123 


642 


INDEX 


Draperies,  for  casement  windows,  66 

hanging  of,  65,  66,  68 

length  of,  66 

Hning,  69,  71 

making,  71-74 

material  for,  57,  63,  65 

measuring  of,  68-70 

number  in  window,  63 

pattern  of,  61,  62 

selection  of,  57,  59,  61,  62 

texture  of,  62,  63 

to  increase  height  of  rooms,  35 

to  reduce  height  of  rooms,  35 
Drawers, 

ironing  of,  274 
Drawer  space,  in  kitchens,  117 
Dress, 

fitting,  361 

form,  334 

kitchen,  123 

suitable  materials  for,  371 
Dressings  for  salads  {see  salads.) 
Drill,  312 
Drugs, 

for  constipation,  459 
Drying  fruits  and  vegetables,  588-590 

circulation  of  air,  588 

equipment,  589 

fruits,  588,  590 

outdoors,  589 

storage,  591 

temperature,  588 
Dry  measures,  130 
Duck,  312 
Dumb-waiter,  118 
Dusting,  124 
Dustless  dusters,  124 
Dye  stain,  290 

Egg-beaters, 

preparation  of  new,  232 

types  of,  228 
Eggplant,  422 

Eggs,  159,  420,  424,  534-542 
as  growth  promoters,  409,  412 
as  liquid,  in  batters  and  doughs,  474 
as  source  of  iron,  411 
as  source  of  lime,  410 
as  source  of  phosphorus,  411 
as  source  of  protein,  410 
beating,  535 


Eggs,  care  of,  534 
cooked  in  shell,  535 
cooking,  535-540 
custards,  537 
fondues,  540,  541 
fried,  536 

in  batters  and  doughs,  476 
in  diet  of  nursing  mother,  434 
in  sauces,  553 
keeping,  534 

leavening  power,  476,  477 

left-over  whites,  534 

left-over  yolks,  534 

meat  substitute,  534 

meringues,  540,  542 

omelets,  536 

place  in  meals,  429 

poached,  535 

preservation  of,  581 

scrambled,  536 

shirred,  536 

souffles,  538 
.    stain,.  291 

tests  for  freshness,  534 
Electricity, 

for  lighting,  202 

high  bills  for,  149 

measurement  of,  147 
Embroidery, 

for  under  garments,  372,  373 

ironing  of,  274 

stitch,  366 
Enamelware, 

preparation  for  cooking,  231 

utensils,  234 
Environment,  home,  29,  30 
Equipment, 

arrangement  of  kitchen,  105-110 

for  canning,  601 

for  drying,  589 

for  kitchen,  115-118 

for  laundry,  276-281 

for  salting  vegetables,  592 

for  sewing  room,  334 

for  stain  removal,  285 
Exercise,  relation  to  food  needs,  413, 
431 

Fabrics,  tests  for,  326 
Fahrenheit  scale,  132 
Farina,  in  tireless  cooker,  219 


INDEX 


Farmhouse, 

alterations  of,  9,  27 
analysis  of  plans  for,  9-19 
architecture  of,  21,  22 
arrangement  of  structural  parts  of, 

11,  12 
cellars  in,  1 1 
color  of,  21 

corners  in,  diagonal,  13,  18 
cross-ventilation  in,  15,  23 
design  of  exterior,  21 
difficulties  in  planning,  8 
doors  in,  9,  16,  25 
hall,  9,  19 

hired  man's  room  in,  18 

improvements,  modern,  20 

inglework,  use  of,  16 

kitchen  arrangement  in,  17,  18 

living  area  of,  11,  16 

location  of,  7,  8 

modern  vs.  old  types,  19 

new  types  of,  11 

office  in,  19 

path  of  travel  in,  16 

plan  for,  1 1 

porches  of,  23,  24 

portals,  25 

proportion,  general,  22 
roof  lines  of,  22,  23 
sleeping  area  of,  11,  14,  23 
structural  elements  of,  23 
terrace,  use  of,  16 
test  of  plan  for,  18 
traditional  types  of,  8 
vistas  in,  value  of,  11,  16 
washroom,  in  location  of,  13 
woodroom,  in  location  of,  13 
working  area  of,  11,  13,  16 
working  distances,  shortening  of,  11 
Farmstead,  7,  8 

Fastenings  for  undergarments,  379 
Fat, 

as  liquid,  in  batters  and  doughs,  474 
clarification,  522 
combinations  of,  520 
digestibility,  520 
flavor,  520 
foods  rich  in,  408 

growth-promoting  substance  in,  412 
hardness,  520 

in  batters  and  doughs,  477 


Fat,  in  cooking,  520 
in  pastry,  491 
mutton,  521 
savory,  523 

temperature  of  cooking,  520 

trying  out,  522 
Feathers, 

renovation,  403 
Felt,  320 

renovation  of  white,  403 
Fermentation, 

method  of  preservation,  598 

of  bread,  499 

of  vegetables,  599 
Fever,  diet  in,  462 
Fiber  utensils,  230 
Figs,  160,  417,  422 
Filberts,  424 
Filing,  of  records,  176 
Fillet  lace,  372 
Fillings  for  cakes,  486 
Finishes, 

arrows,  369 

bound  buttonholes,  370 
collars,  364 
cuffs,  364 

embroidery  stitches,  367 
for  bottom  of  skirt,  367 
for  drawers,  376 
for  garments,  364 
for  nightgown,  376 
for  underskirt,  377 
for  waist-line,  378 
set-in  pocket,  368 
waist-line,  366 
Fireless  cooker,  207,  214 
care  of,  216 

commercial  vs.  home-made,  214 
cost  of  home-made,  214 
directions  for  making,  215 
for  cereals,  507 
for  keeping  foods  cool,  224 
intelligent  use  of,  217 
materials  for  making,  215 
selection,  214 
time  of  cooking,  217 
time-table  for,  219 
use  of,  218 
use  of  radiators,  214 
Fires, 

care  of,  191 


644 


INDEX 


Fires,  kindling  of,  210 
Fish,  527-530 

baking,  529 

boUing,  528 

boning,  528 

broiling,  531 

care,  527 

carving,  532 

classification,  527 

cleaning,  528 

cooking,  528-530 

frying,  532 

preparation,  528 

sauteing,  531 

selection,  527 

skinning,  528 
Fitting  garments,  360 

house-dress,  361 

shirt-waist,  361 
Flannel,  371 

baby,  320 

canton,  311 

French,  320 

ironing  of,  275 

Shaker,  320 

silk-warp,  320 

washing  of,  269 
Flannelette,  311 
Flavoring  in  cakes,  486 
Floors, 

bedroom,  123 

care  of  sewing  room,  334 

carpets,  74 

color  of,  44 

cork  carpet,  77 

coverings,  74-77 

finish  of,  44,  45,  118 

functions  of,  74 

ingrain  filling,  78 

kitchen,  118 

linoleum,  77 

number  in  house  plan,  3 
permanency  of,  44 
rugs,  74,  75,  76 
to  wax,  128 

wood-veneer  carpet,  78 
Flour, 

bread,  474,  490,  495 
graham,  159,  496 
manufacture  of,  496 
pastry,  474,  490 


Flour,  white,  159,  497 

whole-wheat,  159,  497 
Flowers, 

renovation  for  hat  trimming,  402 
Fly-paper  stain,  291 
Folds, 

for  hats,  405 

French,  406 
Fondues,  540,  541 
Foods,  407-633 

choice  of,  425 

containing  growth-promoting 

factors,  412 
for  children,  437 
for  infants,  435 
for  nursing  mother,  434 
for  prospective  mother,  433 
for  the  sick,  455-464 
fuel,  408 
laxative,  460 

methods  of  keeping  cool,  220 

preservation  of,  579-633 

regulating,  409 

rich  in  fat,  408,  419 

rich  in  iron,  411 

rich  in  lime,  410 

rich  in  phosphorus,  411 

rich  in  protein,  409,  420 

rich  in  starch,  408,  419 

rich  in  sugar,  409,  417 

serving  of,  244-246 

to  supply  needs  of  body,  408 

weights  and  measures  of,  159-167 
Footing,  for  undergarments,  372 
Forks, 

handling  at  table,  247 

placing  on  table,  242 
Formulas, 

for  batters  and  doughs,  482 
Foulard,  323 
Fowls,  420.    See  poultry. 
Frappes,  572 

Freezers,  preparation  of  new,  232 
Freezing  desserts,  574 
French  dressing,  565 
Frostings  for  cakes,  486-489 
Frozen  desserts,  572 
Frozen  puddings,  574 
Fruit  juices, 

as  beverages,  472 

canning,  619 


INDEX 


645 


Fruit  juices,  extraction,  619 
Fruits, 

as  desserts,  570 
■  as  regulating  food,  411 

as  source  of  iron,  411 

as  source  of  protein,  410 

canned,  448 

canning  by  cold-pack,  609,  611,  612 
drying,  588,  590 
in  cakes,  485 

in  diet  of  nursing  mother,  435 

place  in  meals,  427 

stain,  291,  292 

storage  of,  583,  584 

utensils  for  stewing,  227 
Frying,  utensils  for,  227 
Fuel, 

advantages  and  disadvantages,  200 
consumption  of,  193 
kinds  for  heating,  196 
Fuel  foods,  408 

estimating  needs  of  body  for,  412- 
415 

need  of  nursing  mother  for,  434 
FuUer's  earth, 

in  laundering,  254 

soaps  containing,  255 
Furnishing,  home,  29-99 

adaptation  to  locality,  30 

arrangements   of   furnishings,  92, 
94 

ceiling,  43 
color,  45-51 
consistency  in,  29,  30 
cornices,  43 
doors,  37,  42 
fitness  to  use,  30 
floors,  44 

floor  coverings,  74-77 
furniture,  78-86 
hangings,  55-74 
individual  problem,  29 
mantelpieces,  43 
■   pattern,  51-53 
permanence  of,  29 
picture  moldings,  43 
pictures,  88-89 
plaster  walls,  finish  of,  39,  40 
selection  of  furnishings,  54-91 
shape  and  proportion  of  rooms,  31, 
37 


Furnishing,  simplicity  in,  30 
size  of  rooms,  30,  31 
small  furnishings,  90-91 
structural  consideration  of  rooms, 
30-45 

structural  surfaces,  37-45 

trim  of  walls,  41,  42 

wainscots,  40 

wall  coverings,  54,  55 

windows,  relation  to,  37 
Furnace, 

care  of,  197,  198 

pipes,  198 

size  of,  194 
Furniture,  78-86 

construction  of,  81-84 

design  of,  81-84 

function  of,  78,  80,  81 

relation  to  other  furnishings,  88 

selection  of,  78 

to  diminish  height  of  rooms,  35 
to  diminish  length  of  rooms,  37 
to  increase  height  of  rooms,  35 
to  increase  length  of  rooms,  37 
upholstery,  85 

Galatea,  312 
GarHc,  564 
Gas, 

cost  an  hour,  145 

in  batters  and  doughs,  473 

for  lighting,  201 

high  bills  for,  146 

measurement  of,  143 
Gas  range,  211 

adjustment  of  burners,  211 

to  clean,  126 
Gauze,  312 
Gelatin,  160 
Gelatin  desserts,  570 
Gingham,  311,  371 
Glass, 

curtains,  63,  65 

placing  on  table,  242 

preparation  of  new,  232 
Gloria,  320 
Glucose,  in  body,  408 
Glue, 

in  laundering,  259,  260 
stain,  292 
Gluten.  473,  496 


646 


INDEX 


Goats'  hair,  316 

Goose,  421 

Gooseberries,  422 

Graham  flour,  496 

Grains  {see  cereals.) 

Granites  (desserts),  573 

Grape  fruit,  160,  422 

Grape  juice,  422 

Grapes,  160,  417,  422 

Grass  stain,  292 

Gravy  stain,  298 

Grease  stain,  292 

Green  fohage,  stain,  292 

Greens,  as  source  of  growth-promoting 

factor,  412 
Grenadine,  320 
Griddle  cakes,  482 
Growth-promoting  factors,  412 
needs  of  nursing  mother,  434 
Gruel  stain  (see  white  sauces),  306 
Gum  arable,  in  laundering,  258,  259, 

261 

Gums,  stain  (see  resinous  substances), 
301 

Halibut,  421 
Hall, 

center  of  plan,  9 

for  downstairs  bedrooms,  19 

furnishings  of,  95 

passing  of,  large,  19 

size  of,  31 
Ham,  420 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 

sugar-cured,  624 
Hamburg  steak,  630 
Handkerchief  linen,  315 
Handkerchiefs,  ironing  of,  275 
Hangings,  for  windows  and  doors,  55- 
74 

purpose  of,  55 

types  of,  55 
Hats  (see  millinery) 
Head-cheese,  627 
Heat,  191 

care  of  fires,  191 

cost  of,  192 

radiation,  191 
Heating  system,  193 
Hemstitching,    machine    for  under- 
garments, 373 


Henrietta,  320 

Herbs,  for  salads,  563 

Home  furnishing  (see  furnishing) 

Homespun,  320 

Hominy,  159,  416.  424 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 
Honey,  417,  427 
Hot-water  canners,  601 
House, 

care  of,  121-128 

cost  of,  2,  25,  26 

estimating  cost  of,  26 

modern  compared  with  old  types, 
26,  27 

House  furnishing  (see  furnishing) 
Household  administration,  relation  to 

arrangement  of  space,  1 
Household  records,  175 

accounts,  177 

classification  of,  175 
House  plan, 

economy  of,  4,  11,  14,  15 

exposure  of  rooms,  3 

floors,  number  of,  3 

floor  space  in,  organization  of,  2 

for  family  of  little  children,  5 

living  area  of,  arrangement  of,  2 

one-floor,  simple  housekeeping  of,  4 

shape  of  rooms  in,  3 

sleeping  rooms,  privacy  of,  3 

starting  point  of,  2 

value  of  sound,  1,  2 

windows  in,  3,  18,  22,  23 
Huckaback,  315 
Hue,  45,  46 

Hydrogen  peroxide,  for  stain  removal, 
286 

Hydrometers,  154 
classes,  154 
use  of,  155 

Ice  cream,  424,  573 

flavorings,  573 

freezing,  575 

packing,  575 

stain,  294 

texture,  573 
Iceless  refrigerator,  221 
Ices,  572 

Improvements,  modern,  in  houses,  20 
Indelible  pencil  stain,  294 


INDEX 


647 


India  silk,  323 
Indigestion,  461 
Infants,  feeding  of,  435 
Inglenook,  16,  31 
Ingrain  filling,  78 
Ink-removers,  286 
Ink  stain,  marking,  295 

printing,  295 

writing,  295 
Intensity,  relation  to  color,  45,  46,  47 
Interior  finish  of  kitchen,  118-119 
Iodine  stain,  296 
Iron, 

foods  rich  in,  411 

needs  of  nursing  mother,  434 

preparation  of  new,  for  cooking,  231 

utensils,  235 
Ironing,  273-276 

colored  garments,  275 

covering  of  board,  274 

drawers,  274 

embroideries,  274 

equipment  for,  273 

flannels,  275 

handkerchiefs,  275 

laces,  274 

napkins,  275 

night  dresses,  274 

order  of,  274 

piUow  cases,  275 

sheets,  275 

shirt-waists,  274 

silk  garments,  275 

skirts,  274 

tablecloths,  274 

towels,  275 

waists,  silk,  274 
Ironing-blanket,  280 
Ironing-board,  280 
Ironing  machines,  277 
Iron-rust  stain,  297 
Irons,  278 

Jams,  622 
Japanese  silk,  323 
Jars,  for  canning,  604 

testing,  605 

types,  604 
Javelle  water, 

for  bleaching,  272 

formula,  273 


Javelle  water,  for  stain  removal,  285 
Jelly,  620 

dishes,  on  table,  243 

extractions  of  juice,  619 

pectin  test,  620 

proportion  of  sugar,  621 

requisites,  620 

sealing,  622 

test  when  done,  622 

time  of  boiling,  621 

utensils  for  cooking,  228 
Jersey  cloth,  323 
Junket,  572 
Jute,  325 

Kerosene,  209 

for  bathroom,  123 
for  lighting,  200 
for  sinks,  122 

in  laundering,  254,  255,  258,  265 
Kerosene  stove,  209 

operation  of,  210 
Kersey,  320 
Khaki,  312 
Kitchen,  122 

alcove  in,  101 

arrangement,  17,  18 

color  scheme  of,  118,  119. 

combined  with  dining-room,  102 

doors,  103 

equipment,  arrangement  of,  105- 
110 

exposure,  102 

flooring,  118 

interior  finish,  118-119 

Hghting,  119 

measurements,  156-161 

paint  in,  119 

pantries,  112 

planning  of,  100-119 

plans,  discussion  of,  110-112 

range,  108,  109 

remodeling  of,  101 

shape  of,  102 

sink,  109 

size  of,  31,  103 

storage  space,  112-118 

table  space  in,  107 

use  of,  100-102 

utensils,  225-239 

walls,  119 


INDEX 


Kitchen,  windows,  104-105 

woodwork,  118 
Knitted  garments, 

washing  of,  271 
Knives, 

for  kitchen  use,  228 

handling  at  table,  248 

placing  on  table,  242 
Kumyss,  423 

Labels  on  canned  foods,  451 
Laces, 

bleaching  of,  272 

ironing  of,  274 

for  undergarments,  372 

renovation,  402 

washing  of,  272 
Lace  straw,  405 
Ladyfingers,  423,  483 
Lamb,  420,  421 

selection  of,  510 
Lamps,  202,  205 

care  of  kerosene,  201 

cleaning  of,  126 

selection  of,  90,  91 
Lard,  159,  419,  627 

in  baking,  477 

in  pastry,  491 

substitutes,  in  baking,  477 
Laundering,  249-281 

acids,  effect  on  fabrics,  249 

alkalis,  effect  on  fabrics,  249 

bleaching,  273 

bluing,  261,  266 

equipment  for,  276-281 

for  stain  removal,  283 

ironing,  273-276 

purposes  of,  249 

room  for,  276 

soap,  253-257 

soap   substitutes   and  accessories, 
254-257 

softening  water  for,  250-253 

starch,  257-261,  266 

supplies  for,  281 

washing,  261-272 

water  for,  250-253 
Lawn,  312 
Laxative  foods,  460 
Lead-foil  stain,  298 
Lead-pencil  stain,  296 


Leather,  fruit,  591 
Leather  stain,  298 
Legumes, 

as    source    of  growth-promoting 
factor,  410 

as  source  of  phosphorus,  411 

as  source  of  protein,  410 

starch-rich  food,  408 
Lemon  juice,  161,  422 
Lemons,  417,  422 
Length  measure,  131 
Lentils,  161,  422 
Lettuce,  418,  422 

source  of  lime,  411 
Lighting,  191,  201 

cost  of,  204 

distribution  of,  205 

kitchen,  119 

types,  201 
Lime,  410 

foods  rich  in,  410 

milk  as  source  of,  411 

needs  of  nursing  mother,  434 

stain  from  slacked,  298 
Linen,  371 

adulteration,  313 

color,  313 

fabrics,  315 

fiber,  312 

selection,  314 

sizing,  314 

tests  for,  326-328 
Linoleum,  77 

for  kitchen  floors,  118 
Linon,  312 
Linsey  woolsey,  320 
Liquid  measures,  130 

testing,  130 
Liquids,  density  of,  153 
Liver,  421 

Living  area,  in  house  plans,  2,  11,  16 
Living-room,  30 

character  of,  95,  97 

size  of,  30 
Lobster,  421 
Longcloth,  311,  371 
Lye, 

for  softening  water,  251 
in  laundering,  255 
Macaroni,  159,  416,  424 
in  fireless  cooker,  219 


INDEX 


649 


Macaroons,  423,  483 
Mackerel,  421 
Mackinaw.  320 
Malnutrition,  426 
Mantelpieces,  43 
Mantles,  gas,  201 
Marketing,  438-454 

amount  to  buy,  440 

bulk  vs.  package,  441 

canned  foods,  445-454 

discounts,  444 

good  buying,  438 

grade  of  food,  439 

inspection  on  delivery,  444 

kind  of  food,  439 

labels,  439,  451 

package  vs.  bulk,  441 

price,  443 

records,  444 

servings  of  vegetables,  in  pound, 
440 

I        storage,  445 

units  of  sale,  442 
where  to  buy,  443 
Marmalade,  423 
Mayonnaise  dressing,  566 
I     Meals,  planning  of,  407-437 
'        balance  in,  425 

food  combinations,  432 
foods  for  suppljdng  needs  of  body, 
408 

food  needs  of  body,  407 
for     all     members     of  family, 
431 

fuel  requirement,  412 
iron  requirement,  415 
lime  requirement,  415 
phosphorus  requirement,  415 
protein  requirement,  414 
rules  for,  425 
Measurements,  129-174 
for  commodities,  129 
for  electricity,  147 
for  gas,  143 
for  temperature,  131 
for  time,  138 
for  water,  151 
in  garment  making,  338 
I        kitchen,  156-161 
seaHng  of,  129 
testing  of,  129,  130,  134 


Measures,  439 

and  weights,  equivalent,  of  foods, 
159 

Meat,  510-526 

as  growth  promoter,  409,  412 

as  source  of  iron,  411 

as  source  of  phosphorus,  411 

as  source  of  protein,  410 

canning,  613 

care,  516 

cooking  of,  512 

cooHng,  622 

curing,  623 

curing  beef,  627-629 

curing  mutton  and  lamb,  629 

curing  pork,  624-627 

fats  in  baking,  477 

fat  in  cooking,  519 

keeping,  519 

market  trimmings,  519 

packing  in  fat,  623 

packing  in  snow,  623 

place  in  meals,  429 

preservation  of,  622-633 

preser^'atives  for  curing,  624 

putrefaction  in  digestive  tract,  429 

sausages,  630 

selection  of,  510 

smoke-house  for,  631 

smoking,  631 

soup-making,  514,  516 

temperature  for  keeping,  623 

tender  cuts,  512 

tough  cuts,  513 

utensils  for  cooking,  226 
Meat-juice  stain,  298 
Meat  substitutes,  427 
Medicine  stain,  298 
Melton,  320 
Mending,  388-392 
Menus,  432,  433,  436,  437 
Mercerization,  cotton,  309 
Meringues,  483,  540 

for  desserts,  540 

for  garnishes,  540 

for  pies,  540 

Italian,  542 

snow  eggs,  540 
Metals, 

protection  of,  231 
Meteor,  324 


INDEX 


Meter, 

electric,  147 

gas,  143 

water,  151 
Metric  system,  167-174 
Micro-organisms,  forms,  600 

in  relation  to  spoilage,  579 
Mildew  stain,  298 
Milk,  159,  420,  423 

allowance  in  meals,  425 

as  growth  promoter,  409,  412 

as  source  of  lime,  410 

as  source  of  phosphorus,  411 

as  source  of  protein,  410 

effect  of  boiling  on,  428 

food  value  compared  with  butter, 
427 

for  children,  436 
for  infants,  435 

in  diet  of  nursing  mother,  434 

modified,  for  typhoid  fever,  463 

place  in  meals,  427 

protein  food,  410 

sour,  in  baking,  474 

stain,  299 

value  of,  425 

ways  of  including  in  meals,  432 
Millinery,  393-406 

brims,  396 

color,  399 

for  round  face,  397 

for  square  face,  398 

hair  in  relation  to,  397 

line  and  form,  396 

placing  on  head,  394,  395 

proportion  and  balance,  393 

renovating  materials,  400 

selection  of  hats,  393 

size  of  crown,  394 

size  of  hats,  396 

storing  old  hats,  400 

trimming,  399,  404 
Mineral  substances,  loss  in  cooking 

vegetables,  545 
Mirror,  to  increase  length  of  rooms,  35 
Mohair,  318 
Moire,  324 

Moisture,   in   relation   to  vegetable 

storage,  584 
Molasses,  160,  417,  423 
in  baking,  474,  477 


Molding,  to  reduce  height  of  rooms,  35 

Molds,  in  relation  to  spoilage,  579 

Mop-wringer,  122 

Mordants  in  laundering,  267 

Mousses,  574 

Mucus  stain,  298 

Mud  stain,  298 

Muffins,  482 

Mull,  312 

Mummy,  312 

Mushrooms,  420 

Muslin,  312,  371 

Mustard,  161 

Mutton,  421 

curing,  629 

cuts  of,  511,  518 

fat  in  cooking,  521 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 

selection  of,  510 

Nainsook,  311,  371 
Napkins, 

ironing  of,  275 

placing  on  table,  243 
Nasturtium,  564 
Nectarmes,  422 
Nickel  utensils,  236 
Night  dresses,  ironing  of,  274 
Nutrition,  and  foods,  407-633 
Nuts, 

in  cakes,  485 

source  of  protein,  410 

Oatmeal,  159,  424 
Oats,  rolled,  159,  416 
bread,  503 

in  fireless  cooker,  218 
Office  in  farmhouse,  19 
Oil,  160,  419 

stain,  (road),  302.    (See  tar) 
Olive  oil  in  baking,  477 
Olives,  419,  422,  423 
Omelets,  424,  536-537 

French,  536 

puffy,  537 

starchy  foundation,  537 
One-hundred-calorie  portions, 
cakes,  423 
cereals,  424 
dairy  products,  423 
desserts,  423 


INDEX 


One-hundred-calorie  portions, 

foods  rich  in  fat,  419 

foods  rich  in  protein,  420 

foods  rich  in  starch,  416 

foods  rich  in  sugar,  417 

fruits,  422 

meats,  421 

miscellaneous,  424 

nuts,  423  ^ 

pastry,  423 

pickles,  423 

puddings,  423 

succulent  vegetables,  418 

sweets,  423 

vegetables,  421 
Onions,  161,  418,  422,  564 

as    source    of  growth-promoting 
factor,  412 

as  source  of  lime,  410 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 
Oranges,  160,  417,  422 
Organdie,  312 

Organic  matter,  removal  from  water, 

253 
Ovens, 

height  of,  207 

insulated,  207,  211 

temperature  of,  479 
OxaUc  acid,  for  stain  removal,  285 
Ox-bile,  253 
Oysters,  421,  532-533 

cleaning,  532 

cocktail,  533 

cooking,  533 

on  half  shell,  532 

opening,  532 

preparation,  532 

season,  532 

selection,  532 

serving,  533 

Packing  frozen  desserts,  574 
Paint, 

for  floors,  44,  45 

for  plaster  walls,  39,  40 

for  woodwork,  42 

in  kitchen,  119 

stain,  298,  299 
Panama  cloth,  320 
Panne,  324 

Pans,  filling  for  baking,  479 


Pantries,  112-116 

food  pantry,  114,  115 

pass  pantry,  114,  115 

purpose  of,  114 
Paper, 

for  ceilings,  43 

for  kitchen  use,  230 

for  walls,  40 

utensHs,  230 
Paraffin, 

in  laundering,  254,  255,  258 

stain,  300 
Parfaits,  574 
Parsle5%  564 
Parsnips,  161,  418,  422 
Paste,  fruit,  591 
Pastry,  490-494 

baking  powder,  491 

characteristics  of  good,  491 

classification,  490 

fat,  491 

flakiness,  492 

flaky,  493 

flour,  490 

ingredients,  490 

lightness,  491 

hquid,  490 

plain,  492 

puff,  494 

salt,  491 

tenderness,  492 

to  make  tender,  490 
Patching, 

hemmed,  388 

overhand,  389 
Pattern,  51-53 

characteristics  of  good,  51-53 

for  floors,  53 

for  walls,  53 

kinds  of  motifs,  52,  53 
Patterns  for  clothing, 

adjustments  in,  342 

marking  for  basting,  348 

placing  on  material,  344 

to  buy  commercial,  341 

to  test  commercial,  341 
Peaches,  417,  422 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 
Peanut  butter,  419 
Peanuts,  160,  424 

substitute  for  animal  food,  410 


652 


INDEX 


Pears,  423 
Peas,  416,  418,  422 
Peau  de  soie,  324 
Pecans,  424 
Pectin,  620 
Pencil  stain, 

indelible,  294 

lead,  298 
Pepper,  161 
Percale,  312 
Perspiration  stain,  301 
Phosphorus,  411 

foods  rich  in,  411 

needs  of  nursing  mother,  434. 
Piano  case,  cleaning  of,  128 
Pickles,  423 

dishes  on  table,  243 

stain,  305.   See  turmeric 
Picture  moldings,  43 

to  increase  height  of  rooms,  35 

to  reduce  height  of  rooms,  35. 
Pictures  35,  88-90 

frames  for,  89 

hanging  of,  89,  90 

to  increase  height  of  rooms,  35 

to  reduce  height  of  rooms,  35 
Pie,  423  {see  pastry) 

crust  baked  without  filling,  493 

pans  for  baking,  226 

two-crust,  493 
Pigs'  feet,  pickled,  626 
Pillowcases,  ironing  of,  275 
Pineapples,  423 
Pine-nuts,  424 
Pipes,  furnace,  198 
Pique,  312 
Pitch  stain,  301 
Pits, 

for  fruit  storage,  584 

for  vegetable  storage,  586 
Plackets  for  undergarments,  379 
Plans  for  house  {see  house  plan,  and 

farmhouse) 
Plaster  walls, 

rough,  39 

smooth,  39 

smooth,    covered   with    paper  or 

textiles,  40 
smooth,  painted,  40 
Plate,  placing  on  table,  243 


Plush,  324 
Pocket,  set-in,  368 
Pongee,  324 
Popcorn,  424 
Poplin,  312,  324 
Popovers,  482 
Porches,  24,  25 
Pork,  421 

brine  salt,  626 

cuts  of,  512,  518 

dry-cured,  626 

sausage,  630 

selection  of,  511 
Portals,  25 

Portieres,  61,  68,  69,  73,  74 
Potassium  permanganate,  for  stain 

removal,  285 
Potato,  161,  416,  422 
bread,  503 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 

starch  for  laundering,  257 

water  for  laundering,  254,  257 
Pottery  utensils,  236 
Pot  roasts,  pans  for  cooking,  226 
Poultry,  511,  524-526 

canning,  613 

cleaning,  524 

cooking,  525 

dressing,  524 

selection  of,  511,  524 

to  roast  chicken,  525 

to  stew  chicken,  525 
Preservation  of  food,  579-633 

butter,  582 

canning,  599-620 

causes  for  spoiling,  579 

drying,  580 

drying  fruits  and  vegetables,  588- 

592 
eggs,  581 

high  temperature,  581 

low  temperature,  580,  581 

meat,  622-631 

methods,  579 

preservatives,  580,  624 

salting  vegetables,  592-597 

storage  of  fruit,  583 

storage  of  vegetables,  584 
Pressing,  337 
Pressing  boards,  334 
Pressure  cooker  as  fuel-saver,  208 


INDEX 


653 


Proportion, 

changing  apparent,  33 
in  farmhouse,  22 
Protein, 

as  source  of  energj%  409 
comparative  value  of  various  pro- 
teins, 410 
estimating  daily  allowance  of,  414 
foods  rich  in,  410 
in  stains,  283 

needs  of  nursing  mother,  434 

proportion  of  animal  and  plant  in 
meals,  415 
PruneUa,  320 
Prunes,  160,  417,  422 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 
Prussian  blue  stain,  289 
Pudding,  423 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 

frozen,  574 
Pumpkins,  422 

Putrefaction  in  digestive  tract,  429, 
430 

Radiation,  191 
Radishes,  422 
Raisins,  160,  417,  422 
Ramie,  325 

tests  for,  326  * 
Ranges  {see  stoves) 

ash  removal,  108,  109 

location  in  kitchen,  107 

ventilating  flue  for,  108 
Raspberries,  423 
Ration,  balanced,  425 
Records,  household,  175 

accounts,  177 

classification  of,  175 

keeping  of,  176 
Refrigerators,  220 

best  use  of,  221 

current  of  air,  221 

iceless,  221 

insulation,  220 

location  of  ice  compartment,  220 
location  of  icing-door,  220 
sanitary  construction,  221 
selection  of,  220 
size  of  ice  compartment,  220 
Regulating  substances,  407 
in  fats,  408 


Renovating  materials,  for  hats,  400 

Rep,  312 

Repair  kit,  124 

Resin  stain,  301 

Rhubarb,  418,  422 

Ribbons, 

for  hats,  405 

renovation,  402 

washing  of,  272 
Rice,  159,  416,  424 

bread,  503 

in  fireless  cooker,  219 

starch  for  laundering,  258,  260 

water  for  laundering,  254 
Rippleette,  371 
Roasts,  pans  for  cooking,  226 
RoUs,  424 
Roof  lines,  22,  23 
Rooms, 

exposure  of,  3 

relation  between  three  dimensions 

of,  33 
shape  of,  2 

shape  and  proportion  of,  31-37 
size  of,  30 

sleeping,  privacy  of,  3 

structural  consideration  of,  30-45 

treatment  of  high,  33 

treatment  of  low,  35 

treatment  of  short,  35 

treatment  of  square,  35 
Root  crops, 

storage  of,  587 
"Ropiness"  in  bread,  500 
Rubbers,  606 
Rugs,  74-76 

color  of,  75 

pattern  of,  76 

size  and  proportion  of,  76 

to  diminish  length  of  rooms,  37 

to  increase  length  of  rooms,  37 

to  remedy  color  effect,  44 

Sage,  564 

Salad  dressings,  564 
bacon,  569 
cooked,  568 
cream,  566 
French,  565 
mayonnaise,  566 
stain,  301 


654 


INDEX 


Salads,  563-569 
herbs,  563 

seasons  for  greens,  564 
Salicylic  acid, 

in  canning  powders,  580 
Salmon,  420,  421 
Salt,  161 

containers,  on  table,  243 

in  cooking  vegetables,  544 

pork,  brine,  626 

-rising  bread,  505 

water,  for  constipation,  459 
Salting  vegetables,  592-597 

care,  598 

equipment,  592 

fermentation  in  acid  brine,  597 
fermentation  with  dry  salting;  594 
oil  on  surface,  596 
paraffin  on  surface,  595 
preparation  for  table,  599 
preventing  scum,  595 
storage,  598 

without  fermentation,  597 
Sarcenet,  324 
Sash  curtains,  63-65 
Sateen,  312,  371 
Satin,  324 
Sauces,  552-560 

brown,  553,  557 

butter,  553,  556 

sirup,  561 

solid,  562 

sweet,  559-561 

thickened  with  egg,  553,  558 

white,  552,  554,  555 
Sausages,  630 
Sauteing, 

utensils  for,  227 
Scales,  weighing,  129 

capacity,  129 

use,  129 
Scorch  stain,  301 
Score  cards  for  canned  food,  618 
Scrim,  312 
Seams,  358 

fell,  373 

for  undergarments,  373,  375 
French,  373 
plain,  373 

to  prevent  sagging,  364 
Serge,  320 


Sewing  machine,  334 

automatic,  334 

lock  stitch,  334 

operation  of  lock  stitch,  334 
Sewing-room, 

equipment  for,  334 
Shad,  421 

Shades  for  windows,  55,  56 
Sheeting,  310 
Sheets,  ironing  of,  275 
Shelving,  arrangement  of,  116 
Sherbets,  572 

Shirt-waists,  ironing  of,  274 
Shoddy,  318 
Shoe-dressing  stain,  302 
Shortening,  in  baking,  477 
Shrinking  materials,  336 
SiciHan,  320 

Silence  cloth,  for  table,  241 
Silesia,  312 
Silk,  371 

adulteration,  322 

artificial,  324,  326 

fabrics,  323 

fiber,  321 

ironing  of,  275 

tests  for,  326-329 

washing  of,  271 
Silver  nitrate  stain  (see  ink,  marking), 
295 

Silver  utensils,  237 
Sinks,  109 

care  of,  122 

use  of,  122 
Sirup,  423 

for  canning  fruit,  608 
Sizing, 

cotton,  308 

linen,  314 
Skewers,  for  kitchen  use,  230 
Skins  of  fruits,  removal  in  canning, 

611 
Skirts, 

amount  of  material  for,  343 
basting,  358 
ironing  of,  274 
making  even  at  bottom,  363 
measurements,  340 
to  make  even  at  bottom,  363 
Sleeping  area  in  house  plans,  11,  14, 
23 


INDEX 


655 


Sleeping-rooms,  123 
Sleeve, 

basting,  355,  357 

board,  280 

form,  334 

measurements,  340 
Smoking  meats,  630-633 
Soap,  253-256 

accessories,  254-256 

bark,  254 

borax,  255 

homemade,  254,  256 

jelly,  257 

naptha,  255,  265 

solutions,  256 

stain,  302 

substitutes,  254-257 
Soapstone, 

utensils,  237 
Soda,  161 

in  baking,  474 

in  cooking  vegetables,  545 

proportion  to  be  used,  474 

ways  of  adding,  475 

with  baking  powder,  475 
Sofa  pillows,  91 
Soot  stain,  302 
Sorbets,  573 
Souffles,  538-539 

custard,  540 

frozen,  574 

fruit,  540 

plain,  538 

vegetable,  540 
Soup,  424 

brown  stock,  515 

bouillon,  515 

canning  of,  613 

classification,  514 

meats  for,  516 

stain,  303,  306  {see  white  sauces) 

use  in  meals,  432 

white  stock,  515 
Soy  beans, 

as  growth  promoter,  409,  412 

substitute  for  animal  food,  410 
Spaghetti,  442 
Spearmint,  564 
Specific  gravity,  153 

influence  of  temperature  on,  156 
Spinach,  418,  422 


Spinach,  as  source  of  growth-promot- 
ing factor,  412 

as  source  of  lime,  411 
Sponge  cakes, 

baldng,  484 

mixing,  483 
Sponges  (desserts),  571 
Sponging  materials,  336 

for  stain  removal,  284 
Spoons, 

for  kitchen  use,  229 

handhng  at  table,  248 

placing  on  table,  242 
Spores,  600 
Squash,  418,  422 

storage  of,  588 
Stain  removal,  282-306 

acids,  283,  287 

alkalis,  283,  288 

aniline  blue,  289 

asphalt  {see  tar) ,  303 
paint,  303 

berries,  cooked,  292 
fresh,  291 

blood,  288 

bluing,  289 

butter,  290 

candle  wax,  colored,  290 
chemicals,  use  of,  285 
chocolate,  290 
cocoa,  290 
coffee,  290 
cream,  299 

creosote  oil  {see  tar) ,  303 
dye,  290 
egg,  291- 

equipment  for,  286 
fly  paper,  sticky,  291 
fruits,  cooked,  292 

fresh,  291 
glue,  292 
grass,  292 
gravy,  298 
grease,  292 
green  foliage,  292 
gruel  {see  white  sauces),  306 
gums  {see  resinous  substances),  301 
hydrogen  peroxide,  286 
ice-cream,  294 
indelible  pencil,  294 
ink,  295 


656 


INDEX 


Stain,  ink-removers,  commercial,  286 
iodine,  296 
iron-rust,  297 
Javelle  water,  285 
laundering,  284 
lead  foil,  297 
lead  pencil,  298 
leather,  298 
lime,  slacked,  298 
meat  juice,  298 
medicines,  298 
mildew,  298 
milk,  299 
mucus,  299 
mud,  299 
oxalic  acid,  285 
paints,  299,  300 
paraffin,  300 
pencil,  indelible,  294 

lead,  298 
perspiration,  301 
pickles  (see  turmeric),  304 
pitch,  301 

potassium  permanganate,  285 
protein  in  stains,  282 
Prussian  blue,  288 
resins,  301 

road  oil  (see  tar),  303 

running  colors,  290 

salad  dressing,  301 

scorch,  301 

shoe-dressings,  302 

silver  nitrate  (see  ink,  marking) ,  295 

soap,  302 

soot,  302 

soup,  303 

cream  (see  white  sauces),  306 
sponging,  284 
stove-polish,  303 
sugar  sirups,  303 
tar,  303 
tea,  303 
tobacco,  304 
tomato  vine,  304 
turmeric,  304 
ultramarine,  289 
unknown  stains,  287 
varnishes,  299 
vaseline,  305 
verdigris,  305 
vinegar  (see  acid),  287 


Stain,  walnut,  black,  305 
water,  306 

water  color  paints,  300 

wax,  paraffin,  300 

white  sauces,  306 

whitewash  (see  alkalis),  288 

wine  (see  fruit,  fresh),  291 
Starch, 

foods  rich  in,  408 

in  laundering,  257-261 

water,  for  cleansing,  257 
Steam  cookers,  601,  603 
Steam  pressure,  601 

canners,  601,  602 
Steel  utensils,  235 
Stew,  utensils  for  cooking,  227 
Stock,  soup, 

brown,  514 

white,  514 
Stocking  darning,  391 
Storage, 

canned  foods,  617 

dried  foods,  591 

space  in  kitchen,  112-118 
Stoves  and  cookers,  207-219 

coal,  210 

dampers,  208 

drafts,  208 

fireless  cookers,  214 

gas,  211 

height,  207,  208 
kerosene,  209 
selection  of,  207 
to  clean,  126 
to  oil,  126 

utensils  for  fuel-saving,  208 

wood  for  fuel,  208 
Straws,  bleaching,  401 

cleaning,  401 

for  hats,  401 

renovating,  400 
Strawberries,  417,  423 
Structural  features,  to  diminish  length 

of  rooms,  37 
Structural  surfaces,  37-45 
Succotash,  422 
Suet,  160,  520 

in  pastry,  491 
Sugar,  160,  417,  423 

cooking,  576-578 

craving  for,  431  . 


INDEX 


Sugar,  foods  rich  in,  409 

food  value  of,  431 

in  baking,  477 

kinds  of,  576 

place  in  meals,  431 

produced  in  body,  409 

sirup  stain,  303 

stages  in  cooking,  578 

temperature  for  cooking,  578 

use  by  body,  409 

utensils  for  cooking,  578 
Supplies  for  laundry,  281 
Sweaters,  washing  of,  271 
Sweeping,  124 
Sweet  basil,  564 
Sweets, 

place  in  meals,  430 
Swiss,  dotted, 

adulteration,  308 
Syllabubs,  572 

Tapioca,  161,  423 
Tables,  kitchen,  106,  107 
Tablecloths,  ironing  of,  274 

placing  on  table,  241 
Table  manners  and  customs,  247,  248 

handling  table  equipment,  247 

serving  children,  247 

serving  guests,  247 

ser\dng  men  and  women,  247 
Table  ser\dce,  244-246 

clearing  the  table,  246 

informal,  246 

order  of  serving,  247 

passing  food,  244,  245 

placing  food,  245 

removing  dishes,  245 

semi-formal,  245,  246 
Table  setting,  240-244 

butter-plate,  242 

chairs,  244 

covering  for  table,  240 
cream  and  sugar  servers,  244 
cups  and  saucers,  244 
forks,  242 
glass,  242 

individual  cover,  242 
jelly  dishes,  243 
knives,  242 
napkin,  243 
pickle  dishes,  243 


Table  setting,  plate,  243 

pot  for  beverage,  244 

relation  of  covers,  243 

salt-containers,  243 

silence  cloth,  241 

silver  for  service,  244 

space  for  cover,  240 

spoons,  242 

with  doilies,  241 

with  tablecloth,  241 
Table  space, 

in  kitchen,  107 
Taffeta,  324 
Tailor's  basting,  350 
Tailor's  chalk,  350 
Tailor's  tacks,  352 
Tarlatan,  312 
Tarragon,  564 
Tar  stain,  303 
Tartans,  320 
Tatting, 

for  undergarments,  372 
Tea,  159,  468 

classification,  468 

clouding,  470 

composition,  468 

directions  for  brewing,  469 

grades,  468 

how  to  judge,  468,  470 

iced,  470 
-punch,  470 

Russian,  470 

servdng,  470 

stain,  303 

storage,  469 
Temperature, 

for  baking  yeast  bread,  500 

for  cooking  sugar,  577 

for  drying,  588 

for  fruit  storage,  584 

for  preserving  meat,  623 

for  vegetable  storage,  582 

measurement  of,  131 

table  of,  135,  136 
Terrace,  use  of,  16 
Tests  for  fabrics,  326 

burning,  328 

color,  327 

feel,  326 

strength,  326 

tearing,  328 


658 


INDEX 


Textiles,  307-329 

artificial  silk,  324 

cotton,  307 

jute,  325 

linen,  312 

ramie,  325 

silk,  321 

tests  for,  326 

weave,  329 

wool,  315 
Thermometer, 

bath,  132 

candy,  133 

clinical,  132 

milk,  133 

outdoor,  131 

oven,  133 

room-temperature,  131  , 

tests  for,  134 
Thermos  bottles,  218,  224 
Time,  measurement  of,  138 
Tinware,  237 

preparation  of  new,  for  cooking,  231 
Tobacco  stain,  304 
Tomatoes,  418,  422 
Tomato-vine  stain,  304 
Tongue, 

pickled  beef,  629 

sugar-cured,  624 
Toothpicks  for  kitchen  use,  230 
Toques,  394 
Torchon  lace,  372 
Towels, 

ironing  of,  275 

kitchen,  123 
Tracing  wheel,  348 
Travel,  path  of,  16 
Trench,  for  vegetable  storage,  586 
Trim  of  walls,  37,  41,  42 
Trimming  of  hats,  398,  404 

bows,  406 

buckles,  404 

folds,  405 

lace  straw,  405 

ribbons,  405 
Trimmings  for  undergarments,  372 

bias  bands,  bindings,  facings,  372 

braid,  372 

embroideries,  372 

hand  embroidery,  373 

laces,  372 


Trimmings,    machine  hemstitching, 
373 
tatting,  372 
Trout,  421 

Tuberculosis,  diet  in,  463 
Tubs,  laundry,  279 
Tulle,  324 

Tumbler,  placing  on  table,  242 
Turbans,  394,  395 
Turkey,  421 
Turmeric  stain,  304 
Turnips,  418,  422 

Turpentine,  in  laundering,  255,  256, 

259,  265 
Tweed,  320 

Tj^phoid  fever,  diet  in,  463 

Undergarments, 

construction  of,  373 

fastenings  for,  379 

finishes  for,  376,  377 

making  of,  369-381 

materials  for,  371 

plackets  and  closings,  379 

seams  for,  373 

selection  of,  371 

top  finishes  for,  375 

trimmings,  371,  372 

uses  of  seams  on,  373 
Ultramarine  stain,  289 
Upholstery,  85 
Utensils, 

advantages  and  disadvantages  of 

materials,  232-239 
arrangement,  231 
brushes,  229 
care  of,  232 
double  boilers,  229 
egg-beaters,  228 
fiber,  230 

for  baking,  225,  478,  479 

for  candy-making,  228 

for  cooking  meats,  226 

for  frying,  227 

for  fuel-saving,  208 

for  jelly-making,  228 

for  laundering,  281 

for  sauteing,  227 

for  stewing,  227 

for  sugar  cooking,  578 

for  various  cooking  processes,  225 


INDEX 


659 


Utensils,  kitchen,  225-239 
knives,  228 
paper,  230 

preparation  of  new,  231 
protection  of  metals,  232 
selection,  225 
skewers,  230 
spoons,  229 
toothpicks,  230 

Valances,  61,  66,  69,  72 

to  reduce  height  of  room,  35 
Valenciennes  lace,  372 
Value,  in  relation  to  color,  45,  47 
Vanilla,  161 
Vaseline  stain,  305 
Vases,  selection  of,  90 
Veal,  420,  421 

selection  of,  510,  516 
Vegetables,  543-549 

as  regulating  food,  411 

as  source  of  iron,  411 

as  source  of  protein,  410 

blanching,  545 

boiling,  546 

canned,  449 

canning  by  cold-pack,  612,  614,  616 

care,  543 

classification,  543 

cooking,  544 

drying,  588-592 

in  diet  of  nursing  mother,  434 

in  season,  550,  551 

losses  in  cooking,  545 

mild-juiced,  544 

one-hundred-calorie  portions  of,  418 

place  in  meals,  429 

rich  in  starch,  408 

salt  in  cooking,  544 

salting,  592-597 

soda  in  cooking,  545 

steaming,  546 

strong-juiced,  544 

storage  of,  584-586 

utensils  for  stewing,  227 
Vegetable  oils,  in  pastry,  491 
Vegetable  oysters,  422 
Veils,  renovation,  403 
Velour,  321 
Velvet,  324 

renovation,  402 


Velveteen,  312,  324 

Ventilation, 

cellar,  for  fruit  storage,  583 

in  relation  to  storage  of  vegetables, 

584 
system,  193 

Verdigris  stain,  305 

Vessels,  unglazed  earthen  for  keeping 
foods  cool,  223 

Vicuna,  321 

Vinegar  stain,  {see  acid),  287 
Vista, 

to  increase  length  of  rooms,  35 
value  in  house  plans,  11,  16 

Vitamines,  412 

needs  of  nursing  mother,  435 

Voile,  321 

Wainscots,  40,  41 

to  reduce  height  of  rooms,  35 
Waist-line  finish,  366 
Waists, 

amount  of  material  for,  34 

basting,  354 

fitting,  361 

measurements,  338 

silk,  ironing  of,  273 

suitable  materials  for,  369 
Wall  coverings,  54,  55 
Wall  paper, 

borders  in,  55 

selection  of,  54,  55 

striped,  to  increase  height  of  rooms, 
35 
Walls, 

as  structural  surfaces,  37 

bedroom,  123 

cellar,  121 

kitchen,  119 

plaster,  39,  40 
Wall  spaces,  relation  to  furnishing,  37 
Walnuts,  160,  419,  424 

stain,  black,  305 
Washing-soda, 

for  softening  water,  251 

for  toilet,  125 

in  laundering,  255 
Washroom,  13,  110 
Washing,  262-273 

boiling,  265 

blankets,  270 


660 


INDEX 


Washing,  bluing,  265 

colored  goods,  262,  267-269 
dampening,  267,  274 
day  for,  261 
directions  for,  264-267 
drying,  266 
flannels,  263,  269 
freezing,  267 

handkerchiefs  used  for  colds,  262 

hanging,  266 

knitted  garments,  271 

laces,  272 

lace  curtains,  272 

machines,  277 

powders,  255 

preparation  of  clothes  for,  262 

ribbons,  272 

rinsing,  265 

silk,  271 

soaking,  262 

starching,  266 

sweaters,  271 

temperature  of  water,  263 

white  goods,  262 

woolens,  269-270 
Waste-baskets,  91 
Water,  159 

boiling  point  of,  135 

for  laundering,  250-253 

hard,  250 

need  of  body  for,  431 

organic  matter,  removal  of,  253 

soft,  250 

softening  of,  251-253 

stain,  306 
Water-color  paint,  stain,  300 
Water-glass,    for    preserving  eggs, 
581 

Watermelon,  423 
Water-seal  canners,  601,  604 
Water-soluble  growth-promoting  sub- 
stance, 412 
Wax, 

for  hard  woods,  42 

for  laundering,  258 

stain,  paraffin,  300 
Waxing  of  floor,  128 
Weave,  328 
Weighing  scale,  129 
Weighting, 

cotton,  308 


Weighting,  silk,  322 
Weights,  438 
Weights  and  measures, 

of  foods,  159-165 

tables  of,  166-174 
Wheat,  416,  424 

cracked,  in  fireless  cooker,  219 

for  flour,  495 

milling  of,  496 

starch  for  laundering,  257 
Wheat  flour,  416 
Wheatless  yeast  breads,  504 
Whey,  423,  427 

in  baking,  474 
Whipcord,  321 
Whips  (desserts),  572 
White  bread,  501,  503 
White  flour,  496 
White-sauce  stain,  306 
Whole  wheat,  159 
Whole-wheat  flour,  496 
Windows, 

area,  37 

area  of,  in  kitchen,  104 
arrangement  of,  3,  18,  23 
as  part  of  wall,  37 
cleaning  of,  127 
function  of,  in  design,  22 
in  rooms  under  sloping  roof,  23 
location  in  kitchen,  104 
painting  of,  22 
relation  to  furnishing,  37 
types  in  kitchen,  104 
Wood, 

comparative  heat  value,  208 

finishes  for,  42 

for  floors,  44 

for  furniture,  82,  83,  85 

for  kitchen  floors,  1 18 

for  trim,  41 

painted  for  harmony,  42 

selection  for  fuel,  208 

utensils,  238 

weight  of  cord,  209 
Woodroom,  location  of,  13 
Wood-veneer  carpet,  78 
Woodwork,  41,  119,  122 
Wool, 

adulteration,  317 

fiber,  315 

materials,  319 


INDEX 


661 


Wool,  shoddy,  318 

tests  for,  326,  328 
Woolens,  318 

washing  of,  269-271 
Working  area  in  house  plans,  11,  13, 
16 

Working  distances,  shortening  of,  in 

house  plans,  1 1 
Worsteds,  318 

unfinished,  321 

finished,  321 
Wringer,  280 


Yeast,  497 

bread  (see  bread) 
compressed,  497 
dry,  497 

function  in  bread-making,  497 
in  relation  to  spoilage,  579 
Hquid,  497 
Yellow  wash,  for  smoked  meats,  633 

Zibeline,  321 

Zinc,  for  kitchen  use,  239 
Zweibach,  424 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


I 


THE  following  pages  contain  advertisements  of  a  few 
of  the  Macmillan  books  on  kindred  subjects. 


Two  Textbooks  of  the  House- 
hold Arts 

BY  HELEN  KINNE,  Professor,  and  ANNA  M.  COOLEY, 
Associate  Professor  of  Household  Arts  Education ^  Teachers  College^ 
Columbia  University 

Cloth,  i2mo,  ill.  $1.10 

Foods  and  Household  Management 

Treats  specifically  of  foods,  their  production,  sanitation,  cost,  nu- 
tritive value,  preparation,  and  serving,  these  topics  being  closely  in- 
terwoven with  the  practical  aspects  of  household  management;  and 
they  are  follow^ed  by  a  study  of  the  household  budget  and  accounts, 
methods  of  buying,  housewifery,  and  laundering.  It  includes  about 
1 60  carefully  selected  and  tested  recipes,  together  with  a  large  num- 
ber of  cooking  exercises  of  a  more  experimental  nature  designed  to 
develop  initiative  and  resourcefulness. 

The  book  is  new,  practical,  and  economical.  It  is  well  illustrated 
and  attractively  bound. 

Shelter  and  Clothing 

This  book  takes  up  fully,  but  with  careful  balance,  every  phase  of 
home-making:  location,  structure,  plan,  sanitation,  heating,  lighting, 
decorating,  and  furnishing.  The  second  part  is  devoted  to  textiles, 
sewing,  [and  dressmaking.  Sewing,  drafting,  designing,  fitting,  and 
cutting  are  treated  in  considerable  detail  as  is  also  the  making  of  the 
personal  budget  for  clothing. 

The  authors  hold  that  harmony  will  be  the  keynote  of  the  home  in 
proportion  as  the  makers  of  the  home  regard  the  plan,  the  sanitation, 
the  decoration  of  the  house  itself,  and  as  they  exercise  economy  and 
wisdom  in  the  provision  of  clothing. 


THE  MACMILLAN  COMPANY 

Publishers       64-66  Fifth  Avenue       New  York 


Some  Aspects  of  Food  Economy 


By  MARY  S.  ROSE 
Everyday  Foods  in  War  Time 

This  little  book  was  written  in  response  to  a  re- 
quest for  ^^a  war  message  about  food."  It  gives  a 
simple  explanation  of  the  part  which  som-e  of  our 
common  foods  play  in  our  diet,  and  points  out  how 
the  necessary  saving  of  fat,  fuel,  sugar,  and  meat  can 
be  made  without  a  loss  of  health  or  strength. 

There  are  chapters  on  the  Milk  Pitcher  in  the 
Home;  Cereals  We  Ought  to  Eat;  Meats  We  Ought 
to  Save;  The  Potato  and  Its  Substitutes;  Are  Fruits 
and  Vegetables  Luxuries?  Sugar  and  Spice  and 
Everything  Nice;  On  Being  Economical  and  Pa- 
triotic at  the  Same  Time. 

Feeding  the  Family  ^^^^ 

This  is  a  clear  concise  account  in  simple  everyday 
terms  of  the  ways  in  which  modern  knowledge  of  the 
science  of  nutrition  may  be  applied  in  ordinary  life. 
The  food  needs  of  the  members  of  the  typical  family 
group — ^men,  women,  infants,  children  of  various 
ages — are  discussed  in  separate  chapters,  and  many 
illustrations  in  the  form  of  food  plans  and  dietaries 
are  included.  The  problems  of  the  housewife  in 
trying  to  reconcile  the  needs  of  different  ages  and 
tastes  at  the  same  table  are  also  taken  up,  as  are  the 
cost  of  food  and  the  construction  of  menus.  A  final 
chapter  deals  with  feeding  the  sick. 


THE  MACMILLAN  COMPANY 

Publishers       64-66  Fifth  Avenue       New  York 


The  Food  Problem 


By  VERNON  KELLOGG  and  ALONZO  E.  TAYLOR 

$1.25 

"  Food  is  always  more  or  less  of  a  problem  in  every  phase  of  its  production, 
handling,  and  consumption.  It  is  a  problem  with  every  farmer,  every  trans- 
porter and  seller,  every  householder.  It  is  a  problem  with  every  town,  state, 
and  nation.  And  now  very  conspicuously,  it  is  a  problem  with  three  great 
groups;  namely,  the  Alhes,  the  Central  Empires  and  the  Neutrals;  in  a  word, 
it  is  a  great  international  problem." 

These  sentences  from  the  introduction  indicate  the  scope  of  "The  Food 
Problem  "  by  Veinon  Kellogg  and  Alonzo  E.  Taylor. 

Both  authors  are  members  of  the  United  States  Food  Administration.  Dr. 
Kellogg  is  also  connected  with  the  Commission  for  relief  in  Belgium  and  pro- 
fessor in  Stanford  University.  Mr.  Taylor  is  a  member  of  the  Exports  Admin- 
istrative Board  and  professor  in  the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  The  preface 
is  by  Herbert  Hoover,  United  States  Food  Administrator  and  Chairman  for  the 
Commission  of  Relief  in  Belgium. 

The  food  problem  of  to-day  of  our  nation,  therefore,  has  as  its  most  con- 
spicuous phase  an  international  character.  Some  of  the  questions  which  the 
book  considers  are : 

What  is  the  problem  in  detail  ? 

What  are  the  general  conditions  of  its  solution  ? 

What  are  the  immediate  problems  and  particulars  which  concern  us,  and 
are  within  our  power  to  affect  ? 
And  finally,  what  are  we  actually  doing  to  meet  our  problem  ? 

TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 
Introduction:  The  International  Problem. 
Part  I.    The  Problem  and  the  Solution. 

Chapter  I.    The  Food  Situation  of  the  Western  Allies  and  the  United  States. 
II.    Food  Administration. 

III.  How  England,  France,  and  Italy  Are  Controlling  and  Saving  Food. 

IV.  Food  Control  in  Germany  and  Its  Lessons. 
Part  II.    The  Technology  of  Food  Use. 

V.    The  Physiology  of  Nutrition. 
VI.    The  Sociology  of  Nutrition. 
VII.    The  Sociology  of  Nutrition  [Continued^, 
VIII.    Grain  and,Alcohol. 
Conclusion  :  Patriotism  and  Food. 


THE  MACMILLAN  COMPANY 

Publishers         64-66  Fifth  Ayenue         New  Tork 


Interior  Decoration  for  the  Small  Home 


By  amy  L.  ROLFE,  M.A. 

Illustrated  J  $1.25 

Instead  of  describing  in  great  detail  the  very  expensive 
furniture  and  rugs  which  can  be  purchased  only  by  the 
few,  the  author  dwells  rather  upon  the  general  principles 
which  apply  in  all  cases  and  treats  specifically  of  such 
furnishings  as  are  suitable  in  the  homes  of  people  of  mod- 
erate means.  Among  the  topics  included  are  walls  and 
ceilings,  windows,  floors,  rugs  and  carpets,  furniture,  fire- 
places, lamps,  and  lighting  fixtures.  A  chapter  on  cabinet 
woods  is  a  special  feature.  The  material  is  organized  in 
such  a  manner  as  to  make  it  useful  both  as  a  text-book  and 
as  a  practical  guide  in  the  furnishing  of  a  home.  The  book 
is  fully  illustrated  and  shows  in  an  unusually  practical 
manner  how  the  rules  of  art  may  be  applied  in  the  decora- 
tion and  furnishing  of  all  homes. 


THE  MACMILLAN  COMPANY 

Publishers       64-66  Fifth  Avenue       New  York 


Domestic  Architecture 


By  LAWRENCE  E.  ROBINSON 

Assistant  Professor  of  Architecture  in  Oregon  Agricultural  College 

Illustrated^  $i.^o 

A  clear,  concise,-  and  practical  treatment  of  the  general 
subject  of  the  house,  including  the  history  of  domestic 
architecture  and  the  development  of  the  typical  styles 
found  in  the  United  States,  building  sites,  exterior  and 
interior  house  design,  character  and  mouldings,  building 
materials,  finish  materials,  house  construction  and  interior 
treatment,  heating,  lighting,  plumbing,  and  other  equip- 
ment, cost  of  dwellings,  and  the  relations  of  owner,  archi- 
tect, and  contractor.  The  work  is  illustrated  by  numerous 
plans  and  includes  directions  for  making  drawings,  and  a 
series  of  sketch  problems  and  problems  in  design.  No 
technical  preparation  is  assumed.  While  it  is  especially 
adapted  for  use  as  a  text  in  courses  on  The  House,  it  will 
be  found  both  interesting  and  practical  for  all  those  who 
are  privileged  to  plan  or  remodel  the  houses  in  which 
they  live. 


THE  MACMILLAN  COMPANY 

Publishers         64-66  Fifth  Avenue         New  Tork 


6360 


f 

1^^ 


