Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


GOVERNMENT 


COOK  BOOK 


I 


Principles  of  Nutrition  and  Economi- 
cal Use  of  Fish,  Eggs  and  Fruit  for 
Food  as  set  forth  in  Publications  of 
the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture 


€aale  Library 


(SECOND  EDITION) 


PUBLISHED 


No.  168. 


BROOKLYN  DAILY  EAGLE 


BRooK:uYiv=rvEW  York: 

Isaaed  at  least  once  a  month.      SubscripUbn  price,  $1.00  per  year,  including  Eagle  Almanac 


Yol.  m\l  (1912).      PRICE  10  CENTS. 


Year  Bo.  3. 


Absolutely  Fireproof 


T 


o  secure  tlie  best  care,  telephone  our  Estimate  Department,  4170 
Main,  for  tLe  storage  of  your  IiouseLoM  goods  and  valuables. 
Expert  packers.  Carpets  cleaned  by  electric  or  vacuum  macbmery 

The  Eagle  Warehouse  and  Storage  Co.?J^t^!T:'.  ^h'^^Z^ll 

OFFICERS  and  DIRECTORS  of  the  EAGLE  WAREHOUSE  AND  STORAGE  COMPANY 

OFFICERS 

SETH  L.  KEENEY,  President  JOHN  E.  CASSIDY.  Vice-President  &  Mgr. 


Andbkw  D.  Baird 
John  E.  Cassidy 
Daniel  J.  Cbeem 


HERBERT  F.  GUNNISON,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

DIRECTORS 

Julian  D.  Fatbchild      William  Hester 

KOBERT  FUREY  SETH  L.  KEENEY 

Herbert  F.  Gunnison     T.  M.  Lloyd 
Wm.  M.  Van  Anden 


Le  Grand  Bbebb 
JopN  McNamke 
J.  H.  Hallook 


t 


BROOKLYN  EAGLE 

GOVERNMENT 

COOK  BO®  K 

FISH,  EGGS  AND  FRUIT 


PRINCIPLES  OF  NUTRITION 

And  Nutritive  Value  of  Foods 

BV 

W.  O.  ATWATER,  Ph.D. 


FISH  AS  FOOD 
EGGS  AND  THEIR  USE 
FRUIT  IN  DIET 

BY 

C.  F.  LANG  WORTHY,  Ph.D. 


CANNED  FRUIT,  PRESERVES  AND  JELLIES 

BY 

MARIE  PARLOA. 


Prepared  Under  the  Direction  of  the  U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture. 


OFFICE  OF  PUBLICATION: 
EAGLE  BUILDING.  BROOKLYN,  NEW  YORK. 

Entered  at  the  Brooklyn-New  York  Post  Office  as  second  class  matter.    Vol  XXVII.,  No.  3,  of  the 
Eagle  Library.     Serial  No.  168,  March,    1912.     Trademark,   "Eagle  Library," 
Registered  Yearly  Subscription,  ^1.00.    Almanac  Number,  50  cents. 


2 


GOVERNMENT    COOK  BOOK 


J 


OS.' 


Brooklyn  Office,  342  Fulton  St. 
Yard,  Foot  of  26th  St. 
Yard,  Foot  of  Adams  St. 


Tel.  No.  6920  Main. 
Tel.  No.  497  South. 
Tel.  No.  7086  Main. 


MAIN  OFFICE: 

HUDSON  TERMINAL  BUILDING 

50  CHURCH  ST.,  MANHATTAN.       TEL.  NO.  8507  CORT. 


GOVERNMENT  COOK  BOOK  3  ^ 


TRY 


HIGH-GROUND 
DAIRY  COMPANY 


ABSOLUTELY  PURE 

BOTTLED  MILK 


and  BE  CONVINCED 
YOU  HAVE  the  BEST 


447  MADISON  STREET 


Phone  llgO  Bedford  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

 ,  .  =^ 


TABLE  OF 


CONTENTS 


Principles  of  Nutrition  and  Nutritive  value  of 


Food. 

Introduction  .^>^.. .  15 

Chemical  composition  of  the  body  and  of  food   15 

Water   15 

Mineral  matter  or  ash  ^   15 

Protein   .  ^.  v  15 

Fats  .....    16 

Carbohydrates  ^. ........ ...^   16 

Refuse   16 

Food  as  building  material  and  fuel   16 

The  body  as  a  machine  ^  16 

Protein  as  building  material  •   17 

Protein  as  fuel  for  the  body  .,  17 

Fats  and  carbohydrates  as  fuel   17 

[Value  of  food  for  supplying  energy   17 

Heat  combustion    17 

The  conservation  of  energy  in  the  body   17 

Fuel  value   17 

How  the  functions  and  nutritive  value  of  food  are 

learned   18 

Food  and  food  economy  ...^   14 

Composition  of  common  food  materials   19 

Proportions  of  non-nutrients  in  foods   19 

Proportions  of  nutrients  in  foods   19 

Digestion,  assimilation  and  excretion   20 

Digestion    20 

Absorption  and  assimilation   20 

Excretion   20 

Apparent  and  actual  digestibility   20 

Ease  and  quickness  of  digestion   20 

Agreement  of  food  with  individuals   21 

Proportions  of  digestible  nutrients  in  food  materials  21 

Preparation  of  food — cooking   22 

Dietaries  and  dietary  standards   22 

Methods  of  making  dietary  studies   22 

American  and  European  dietaries  and  dietary 

standards    23 

Making  home  studies  of  dietaries   24 

Adapting  food  to  the  needs  of  the  body   24 

Advantages  of  several  meals  a  day   25 

Pecuniary  economy  of  food   25 

Errors  in  food  economy   26 

'    Needless  use  of  expensive  foods   26 

Danger  of  a  one-sided  diet   26 

Waste  of  food   27 

Errors  in  cooking   27 

Summary    27 

Economical  Use  of  Meat. 

Utilizing  the  fat,  bone  and  trimmings  in  meats  and 

left-over  cold  meats   28 

Trying  out  fat   28 

Clarifying  fat   28 

Savory  drippings    28 

Uses  for  bones    28 

Methods  of  extending  the  flavor  of  meat   29 

Use  of  dumplings  and  similar  preparations  .,  29 

5         Meat  stew  with  dumplings   29 

.  i   £agout  of  mutton  with  farina  balls   29 

(  •iu.  I  - 


Meat  pies  and  similar  dishes  ■»-» .        . .-. .  29 

Twelve  o'clock  pie  ,      29 

Meat  and  tomato  pie   30 

Meat  and  pastry  rolls   30 

Meat  turnovers    30 

Meat  with  macaroni  and  other  starchy  materials..  30 

Turkish  pilaf    30 

Meat  cakes   30 

Stew  from  cold  roast  v..   SO 

Meat  with  beans   30 

Mexican  beef   .,.   30 

Haricot  of  mutton    30 

Roast  pork  with  cowpeas   31 

Meat  salads   31 

Meat  with  eggs   81 

Roast  beef  with  Yorkshire  pudding   31 

Corned-beef  hash  with  poached  eggs   31 

Ham  and  poached  eggs  with  cream  sauce   31 

Stuffing  or  forcemeat    81 

Mock  duck    81 

Mock  wild  duck   31 

Veal  or  beef  birds   31 

Utilizing  the  cheaper  cuts  of  meat  in  palatable 

dishes   31 

Prolonged  cooking  at  low  heat   82 

Stewed  shin  of  beef    82 

Boiled  beef  with  horseradish  sauce   82 

Scotch  broth    82 

Stuffed  heart    82 

Braised  beef,  pot  roast  and  beef  a  la  mode   32 

Bean-pot  roast    82 

Hungarian  goulash   82 

Casserole  cookery    33 

Casserole  I'oast    83 

Casserole  or  Italian  hash   33 

Meat  cooked  with  vinegar    33 

Sour  beef   33 

Sour  beefsteak    33 

Pounded  meat    33 

Farmer  stew   33 

Spanish  beefsteak    S3 

Chopped  meat   33 

Tough  portions  of  poi-terhouse  steak   34 

Hamburg  steak    34 

Savory  rolls    34 

Cannelon  of  beef    34 

Filipino  beef   ;   84 

Mock  rabbit    34 

Veal  loaf    35 

Developing  and  improving  flavor  of  meat   35 

Retaining  natural  flavor   35 

Round  steak  on  biscuits   85 

Flavor  of  browned  meat  or  fat   35 

Salt  pork  with  milk  gravy   35 

Fried  salt  pork  with  codfish  or  "salt-fish  dinner".  35 

Flavoring  vegetables,  herbs,  spices,  etc   35 

India  curry   36 

Curry  of  veal   36 

Sauces    86 

Mock  venison   86 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


5 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS— Continued. 


Fish  as  Food. 

Value  and  use  of  fish   87 

Conditions  which  affect  the  market  value  of  fish. ...  38 

Preparing  fish  for  market   38 

Nutritive  value  of  fish   39 

Composition  of  fish   39 

Cost  of  protein  and  energy  in  fish  and  other  food 

materials   44 

Digestibility  of  fish   44 

Place  of  fish  in  the  diet   45 

Preparing  fish  for  the  table   46 

Daily  menus  containing  fish   47 

Possible  dangers  from  eating  fish   48 


^'^  E.ggs  and  Their  Uses  as  Food. 

Cooking  and  serving  eggs   49 

Description  and  composition  of  eggs   51 

Size    51 

- Composition    51 

»  Composition  of  shell   53 

Flavor  of  eggs,   53 

^jolor  of  eggshells  .  .  ."   53 

Color  of  egg  contents   53 

Digestibility  of  eggs   54 

The  place  of  eggs  in  the  diet..   56 

Marketing  and  preserving  eggs   57 

Selling  eggs  by  weight   60 

Desiccated  eggs,  egg  powders,  and  egg  substitutes . .  60 

Possible  danger  from  eating  eggs   61 


Use  of  Fruit  as  Food. 

Introduction    61 

Wild  and  cultivated  fruits   61 

Market  conditions  and  fruit  supply   62 

Color  and  flavor  of  fruits   62 

Composition  of  fruits   63 

Ripening  and  its  effect  ^n  composition   66 

Ways  of  serving  fruit   66 

Place  of  fruit  in  the  diet   67 

Digestibility  of  fruit   68 

Relative  economy  of  fruits  and  other  foods   68 

Cooking  and  its  effect  on  fruit:  Jelly  making   69 

Overripe,  decayed,  and  unripe  fruit   70 

Handling  and  marketing  fruit   70 

Storing  fruit   71 

The  hygiene  of  fruit   71 

Conclusions    72 

Canning  and  Preserving  Fruit. 

Introduction    73 

Fresh  and  preserved  fruit  for  the  market   73 

Principles  of  canning  and  preserving   73 

Utensils  needed  for  canning  and  preserving   75 

Selection  and  preparation  of  the  fruit   76 

Making  sjo-up  for  use  in  canning  and  preserving. . .  77 

Canning  fruit   77 

Canned  fruit  cooked  in  the  oven   79 

Canned  fruit  cooked  in  a  water  bath  ,  79 

Preserving  fruit   79 

Methods  of  making  jelly   80 

Canned  or  bottle  fruit  juices   82 


BREAD  DEPARTMENT 

WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL 

Families  Served  With  Bread  and  Rolls 


Cake 
Department 
Large 
Variety 
tor 
Ail 
Purposes 


363  SIXTH  AVE.    754  UNION  ST.    7211  THIRD  AVE. 

TeL.  1030  South  TeU  670  Prospect  Tel..  2390  Bay  lUdg* 

^  ILUL^m^  Vi&W^ 


Food 


1137  FULTON  ST.    Terms  Cash    288  and  290  COURT  ST. 

TeL.  1522  Prospect  Tel.,  448  Main 


Pastry 
Department 
Pies  of  All 
Kinds  in 
Season. 
Osep  Dish 
Pies  on 
Stone 
Plates  a 
Specialty 


Our  Order  Department  Can  Supply  You 

at  Short  Notice 
SERVICE  EXCELLENT 


B 


GOVERNMENT  COOK  BOOK 


Brooklyn  Taxicab 

SERVICE 


TELEPHONE  PROSPECT 


WILL  CALL  FOR  YOU 

OUR  KATES  ARE  LOW 

Toiirliig  C^rs  and  Limousines 

AT  ALL  HOURS 

Our  Chauffeurs  are  polite,  know  Brooklyn  thoroughly, 
drive  smoothly  and  safely  in  city  traffic 

B.  M.  C.  Co.,  Bergen  St.,  Brooklyn 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


iTRonriE 


Finest  Bottled  Malt  Beers 


EE 


We  wish  to  announce  that  we  have  been 
awarded  the  FIRST  PRIZE  (Medaille  D'Or); 
from  the  city  of  Antwerp  for  our  pure  Malt 
Bottled  Beers  exhibited  at  the  International  Ex- 
hibition of  Pure  Food  Beverages  at  Antwerp, 
Belgium,  in  November  11,  1911.  This  proves 
that  our  brews  are  absolutely  'TURE"  Malt 
Beers,  made  exclusively  from  the  best  Barley 
Malt  and  choicest  Imported  Saazer  Hops.  j 
Convince  Yourself  By  Favoring  Us  With 
Your  Orders. 


J.  F.  Trommcr  Evergreen  Brewery, 

BUSHWICK  AVE.  AND  CONWAY  ST.,  \ 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y.  ; 

Telephone.  1100  E.  N.  Y. 


8 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


r 


New  York     Philadelphia     Baltimore  Washington 


1 


Importers 
Retailers 
WliQlesdIers 


OLONIAL 


_  Burlaps 

Mouldings 


TELEPHONE  MAIN  4494 


We  are  now  showing  an  unusually  large  and  varied  assortment 
of  high  grade  Wall  Papers  for  decorative  purposes.  All  the  newest 
and  most  popular  designs  and  colorings  are  represented  in  our  new 
sample  books,  which  are  being  shown  by  all  the  leading  decorators, 
or  can  be  seen  on  display  at  our  show  rooms. 


29-31  DE  KALB  AVENUE 

(Loeser  Square) 

Brooklyn-New  York 
Colonial  Wall  Paper  Co. 


Asl^  Your  Decorator 


To  Show  You  The 


COLONIAL  LINE 


GOVERNMENT  COOK   BOOK  P 


OUR 
GUARANTEE 


Anything  and 

Everything 
Bought  In  This 
Market  Must  Be  as 
Represented  or 
Money  Will  Be 
Cheerfully  Refunded. 


n 


I, 


u 

1018  Flalbush  Ave. 


St.  John's  Place  and 
Troy  Avenue  Branch 

■Telephone  No.  6600  Bedford 


Telephone : 
6200  Flatbush 


SPECIAL 
SATURDAY 
EVENING 
REDUCTIONS 

Cut  Prices  on  Goods 
Bought  After  6  P.  M. 
Saturday,  Such 
Purchases  Not 
Delivered. 


SPECIAL  ATTENTION  PAID  TO  MAIL  AND  TELEPHONE  ORDERS  j 


BIG  REDUCTIONS  IN  ALL  FOOD  PRODUCTS 


THE  STORE  WHERE  YOUR  MONEY  GOES  FURTHEST 


GOVERNMENT  COOK  BOOK 


I  ThcDuplcxo  I 

A  Perfect  jj 

Vacuum  jj 

Cleaner  := 

lor  Only  := 


If  you  contemplate  buying  a  Vacuum  Cleaner, 
have  the  DUPLEXO  demonstrated  to  you 
before  deciding  on  any  machine. 

The  DUPLEXO  is  a  strictly  one  person  ma- 
chine to  clean  Carpets,  Rugs  and  Hardwood 
floors.  It  has  double  suction,  a  reversible 
handle,  large  nozzle,  weighs  only  six  pounds, 
extremely  simple  and  easy  to  operate  and  is 
durable.  Has  attachments  to  clean  everything 
in  a  house.  Every  machine  is  guaranteed  for 
two  years.  Costs  only  Twelve  Dollars  with 
all  Attachments,  or  Eight  Dollars  without  the 
attachments. 

Write  to  us  when  you  desire  a  Demonstrator 
^2  ^^11  on  you.  The  demonstration  is  free  of 
charge  and  without  any  obligation  to  you;  or 
telephone  to  2079  Greenpoint. 

Office  and  Factory 

Duplexo  Vacuum  Cleaner  Co. 

95  and  97  South  Fifth  St.,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


I 


5! 


I 


I 

J' 

I 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


WEIGHT  Telephone  892  Richmond  Hill  QUALITY 

DILLMAN'S 
Home  Made  Bread 

Poplar  Street  and  Union  Place,  Richmond  Hill 


While  we  are  the  originators  of  wrapping 
Bread  in  wax  paper  in  Greater  New  York  to 
insure  cleanHness,  we  do  not  disguise  its  quality. 
Try  a  loaf  and  be  convinced. 

For  Sale  by  All  Grocers 


12 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


No.  1120 
Length  24  inches 
Spread  9  inches 


mi 


I 


iNO.  94  0 
Length  42  inches 
Dome  18"24  inches 


No.  1135 

Length  20  inches      Diameter  18  inches 


No.  461 
Length  36  ins. 
Basket  9x10  ins. 


No.  462 
Length  36  ins. 
Spread  6x8  ins. 


POPKIN  GAS  FIXTURE  CO. 

Manufacturers  of 

GAS  AND  ELECTRIC  FIXTURES 

Old  Fixtures  and  Brass  Work  Refinished  Equal  to  New. 

Office  and  Salesroonii  103  Court  Street, 

Near  Schermerhorn  Street.  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

Factory — 29  Vandewater  St.,  New  York. 

Telephone  4188  Main. 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


IS 


You  Don't  Know  How  Good  Things  Can  Taste 

Until  You  Cook  in 

UTSriON 

Cook&ry  Sags 

Everything  is  improved  in  flavor.   Being  practically  air-tight,  they 
retain  all  the  goodness  and  juices  of  the  food.  Even  the  cheapest  meats 
are  made  tender,  rich  and  flavorful.  Things  cook  in  less  time,  no  smell 
of  cooking  in  the  house,  no  greasy  cooking  dishes  to  wash. 

The  Easiest  Way  to  Cook. 

Prepare  food  as  usual  and  place  in  bag  of 
proper  size.   Close  end  tight  and  slip  into  oven. 
Needs  no  watching— is  self-basting,  self-brown- 
ing.  When  necessary  time  for  cook- 
ing has  elapsed,  remove  food  from 
oven  and  throw  away  bag;  the 
food  will  be  more  deliciously 
cooked  than  is  possible  in  any 
other  way. 

To  Be  Sure  of  Success  get  only  the  genuine  Union 
Cookery  Bags.    They  are  the  only  bags  in  America 
made  especially  for  the  Soyer  method  of  cooking — 

tasteless,  moisture-proof,  germ-proof,  unaffected 
by  heat. 

Made  in  sizes  for  every  cooking  purpose.  Sold  in 
liberal,  sealed,  sanitary  packages. 

25  Cents. 
Ask  Your  Grocer  to  Supply  You. 

He  can  get  them  wherever  he  buys  Union  Bag 
&  Paper  Company's  regular  grocery  bags. 
Or,  write  us. 

THE  UNION  BAG  &  PAPER  COMPANY, 
1926  Whitehall  Buildina.  New  York. 


For  Soyer's  own  method  and 
recipes  get  "Soyer's  Paper 
Baa  CooTcery,''  the  cook 
book  by  the  English  chef, 

NICHOLAS  SOYER 

the  man  who  perfected  paper- 
bag  cookery.  Sent  postpaid 
tor  65  cents. 

The  Union  Bag  &  Paper  Co. 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


Think  for  Yoursielf,  Madam — ^There's  Nothing  Purer, 
Sweeter  or  Healthier  Than  the  BEST  Cotton 
Seed  Oil  for  Salads  and  Cooking. 

Realize  these  facts:  experts-  admit  that  only  one-fourth  of  the  "olive  oil" 
sold  is  really  olive  oil,  and  that  real  olive  oil  is  very  high  in  price,  for  crops 
have  been  failing  for  years. 

Just  because  cheap  cotton  seed  oil  has  been  sold  as  olive  oil  does  not 
change  scientific  facts  that  selected  Winter  yellow  cotton  seed  oil  as  the  finest, 
tastiest  kind  of  salad  dressing,  rich  in  purest  vegetable  fats. 

.  For  salads,  salad  dressings  and  table  use,  buy  the  best— 

EMPIRE  SALAD  OIL. 

For  shortening  bread,  cakes,  pastry,  etc.,  frying  fish,  oysters,  croquettes 
and  other  foods,  use — 

^  I.  X.  L.  COOKING  OIL, 

and  you  will  at  once  enjoy  what  many  who  think  for  themselves  enjoy — a 
matchless  oil  at  a  price  which  will  allow  you  to  use  it  plentifully,  on  the  table. 
In  the  kitchen,  for  the  baby  and  toilet.  If  you  will  write  at  once,  we  will  send 
a  sample  bottle  and  a  splendid  Salad  and  Cook  Book. 

Guaranteed  and  sold  only  as  Pure  Cotton  Seed  Oil  In  sanitary  cans  by 
your  grocer.    If  he  hasn't  got  it,  write  to  us. 

THE  AMERICAN  COTTON  OIL  COMPANY, 
27  BEAVER  STREET,   NEW  YORK. 

Refineries  at 

New  York   Chicago   Cincinnati    St.  Louis   New  Orleans  Memphis 


Principles  of  Nutrition 

— and — 

Nutritive  Value  of  Food 


,  INTRODUCTION. 

The  problem  of  proper  nutrition  has  always  been  of 
gi'eat  importance,  yet  scientific  study  of  this  subject  is 
comparatively  recent.  Food  investigations  have  been 
carried  on  in  Europe  for  some  three-quarters  of  a  cen- 
tury, and  for  a  less  time  in  the  United  States.  In  re- 
cent years  the  development  of  this  subject  has  been  very 
rapid;  a  large  number  of  investigations  have  been  car- 
ried on  under  the  auspices  of  this  Department,  the  agri- 
cultural stations,  and  various  educational  institutions, 
and  many  facts  of  interest  and  importance  have  been 
learned.  It  seems  desirable,  therefore,  to  summarize 
this  information,  and,  so  far  as  possible,  to  interpret 
the  results  in  such  a  way  as  to  show  their  practical 
application. 

Constant  use  has  made  us  so  familiar  with  our  or- 
dinary foods  that  we  seldom  realize  how  complicated  they 
are;  yet  a  thorough  understanding  of  them  takes  us  far, 
not  only  into  chemistry,  but  into  physics  and  physiology 
as  well. 

CHEMICAL  COMPOSITION  OF  THE  BODY  AND  OF 
FOOD. 

The  chemical  substances  of  which  the  body  is  com- 
posed are  very  similar  to  those  of  the  foods  which  nour- 
ish it.  They  are  made  up  of  the  same  chemical  elements, 
and  hence  the  two  may  be  discussed  together.  From 
fifteen  to  twenty  elements  are  found,  among  the  most 
abundant  of  which  are  oxygen,  hydrogen,  carbon,  nitro- 
gen, calcium,  phosphorus  and  sulphur.  The  elements 
are  so  combined  as  to  form  a  great  variety  of  compounds 
hi  both  body  and  food.  The  most  important  kinds  of 
compounds  in  the  body  and  in  foods  are  protein,  fats, 
carbohydrates,  mineral  matter  and  water.  The  func- 
tions of  these  compounds  in  the  food,  as  explained  in 
detail  in  this  bulletin,  are  to  build  and  repair  the  vari- 
ous tissues  of  the  body  and  to  supply  it  with  heat  and 
muscular  energy. 

WATER. 

Water  is  one  of  the  most  abundant  of  these  compounds. 
It  forms  over  60  per  cent,  of  the  weight  of  the  body  of 
the  average  man,  being  a  component  part  of  all  the 
tissues.  It  is  thus  an  important  constituent  of  our  food, 
though  it  cannot  be  burned,  and  hence  does  not  yield 
energy  to  the  body. 

MINERAL  MATTER  OR  ASH. 

Other  food  ingi-edients  which  yield  little  or  no  energy 
end  are  yet  indispensable  to  the  body  are  the  mineral 


matters.  They  form  only  5  or  6  per  cent,  of  the  body 
by  weight,  and  are  found  chiefly  in  the  bones  and  teeth, 
but  are  present  also  in  the  other  tissues  and  in  solution 
in  the  various  fluids.  When  food  or  body  material  is 
burned  the  mineral  constituents  remain  as  ash.  Phos- 
phate of  lime,  or  calcium  phosphate,  is  the  mineral  basis 
of  bone.  Numerous  compounds  of  potassium,  sodium, 
magnesium  and  iron  are  found  in  the  body  and  are 
necessary  to  life. 

The  remaining  nutritive  materials  are  organic  com- 
pounds, so  called  because  they  occur  principally  in  the 
organic,  i.  e.,  the  animal  and  vegetable  world.  They;  all 
contain  carbon,  oxygen  and  hydrogen,  in  varying  pro- 
portions. Some  also  contain  nitrogen,  phosphorus,  sul- 
phur, or  other  elements.  Those  occurring  in  the  body 
and  in  food  are  divided  into  three  principal  groups- 
protein,  fats  and  carbohydrates.  ' 

PROTEIN. 

This  term  includes  the  principal  nitrogenous  com- 
pounds. Protein  is  familiar  to  us  in  the  lean  and  gristle 
of  meat,  the  white  of  eggs,  the  gluten  of  wheat,  etc.  It 
forms  about  18  per  cent.,  by  weight,  of  the  body  of  the 
average  man.  Protein  compounds  may  be  subdivided 
into  albuminoids,  gelatinoids  and  extractives.  The  first 
group,  the  albuminoids,  include  substances  similar  to 
the  white  of  egg,  the  lean  of  meat  (myosin),  the  curd 
of  milk  (casein),  and  the  gluten  of  wheat.  The  second 
gioup,  the  gelatinoids,  occur  principally  in  the  connective 
tissues,  such  as  the  collagen  of  the  tendons  and  skin 
and  the  ossein  of  bone. 

The  albuminoids  and  gelatinoids,  classed  together  as 
proteids,  are  most  important  constituents  of  our  food. 
They  make  the  basis  of  bone,  muscle,  and  other  tissues, 
and  are  essential,  to  the  body  structure.  They  are  also 
used  as  fuel — that  is,  they  are  burned  in  the  body  to 
yield  energy^ — and  they  are  to  some  extent  transformed 
into  fat  and  stored  in  the  body,  but  these  are  their  less 
important  uses.  The  protein  compounds  are  most 
abundant  in  some  of  the  animal  foods,  as  lean  meat, 
though  the  cereals  contain  them  in  considerable,  and 
peas  and  beans  in  large,  proportions.  The  gelatinoids 
are  less  valuable  than  the  albuminoids  for  nutriment. 

The  third  class,  the  so-called  extr-actives,  are  in- 
cluded with  the  protein  compounds  because  they  con- 
tain nitrogen,  but  they  differ  greatly  from  the  albu- 
minoids and  gelatinoids.  They  are  the  principal  ingre- 
dients of  meat  extracts,  beef  tea,  etc.  They  are  be- 
lieved to  neither  build  tissue  nor  furnish  energy,  but 
to  act  ae  stimulants  and  appetizers.    The  craving  which 


♦GOVERNMENT  CO'OTC  BOOK. 


lome  persons  have  for  meat  Is  perhaps  due  in  part  to 
a  desire  for  these  extractives.  The  nitrogenous  com- 
pounds of  potatoes  and  other  vegetable  foods  contain 
more  or  less  of  so-called  amids,  like  asparagin,  which 
are  analogous  to  the  extractives  of  meat,  and  like  them 
cannot  build  tissue,  and  hence  have  an  inferior  nutri- 
tive value. 

FATS. 

Fats  occur  chiefly  in  animal  foods,  as  meats,  fish, 
butter,  etc.  They  are  also  abundant  in  some  vegetable 
products,  such  as  olives  and  cotton  seed,  from  which 
they  are  expressed  as  oil,  and  occur  in  considerable 
quantities  in  some  cereals,  notably  oatmeal  and  maize 
(whole  kernel),  and  in  various  nuts.  In  our  bodies  and 
those  of  animals  fats  occur  in  masses  under  the  skin 
and  in  other  localities,  and  in  minute  particles  scattered 
through  the  various  tissues.  The  amount  of  fat  in  the 
body  varies  greatly  with  food,  exercise,  age,  and  other 
conditions.  When  more  food  is  taken  than  is  necessary 
for  immediate  use  part  of  the  surplus  may  be  stored 
in  the  body.  The  protein  and  fat  of  food  may  thus 
become  body  protein  and  body  fat;  sugar  and  starch  of 
food  are  changed  to  fat  in  the  body  and  stored  as  such. 
When  the  food  supply  is  short  this  reserve  material  is 
drawn  upon  for  supplementary  fuel.  Fat  forms  about 
15  per  cent.,  by  weight,  of  the  body  of  an  average  man. 
Well-fed  or  over-fed  people  with  little  muscular  exer- 
cise often  grow  fat,  but  the  tendency  to  fatness  or  lean- 
ness is  more  or  less  a  question  of  personal  idiosyncrasy 
or  some  other  little  understood  factor,  and  not  decided 
by  food  and  exercise  alone. 

CARBOHYDRATES. 

These  include  such  compounds  as  starches,  different 
kinds  of  sugar,  and  the  fiber  of  plants  or  cellulose. 
They  are  found  chiefly  in  the  vegetable  foods,  like  cereal 
grains  and  potatoes;  milk,  however,  contains  consider- 
able amounts  of  milk  sugar,  which  is  a  carbohydrate. 
The  carbohydrates  form  only  a  very  small  proportion 
of  the  body  tissues — less  than  1  per  cent.  Starches  and 
sugars,  which  are  very  abundant  in  ordinary  food  ma- 
terials, are  important  food  ingredients,  because  they 
form  an  abundant  source  of  energy  and  are  easily 
digested.  They  may  be  and  often  are  transformed  into 
fat  in  the  body. 

REFUSE. 

Food,  as  we  buy  it  at  the  market  or  even  as  it  is 
served  on  the  table,  contains  more  or  less  of  materials 
which  we  cannot  or  do  not  eat,  and  which  would  have 
little  or  no  nutritive  value  if  we  did  eat  them;  such,  for 
instance,  as  the  bones  of  meat  and  fish,  the  shells  of 
eggs  and  the  skins  and  seeds  of  fruits  and  vegetables. 
In  discussing  the  chemical  composition  of  foods  such 
portions  are  usually  counted  as  refuse,  but  they  make 
an  important  item  when  we  consider  the  actual  cost  of 
the  nutrients  of  food.  The  materials  grouped  together 
as  refuse  contain,  in  part,  the  same  ingredients  as  the 
edible  portion,  though  usually  in  very  different  pro- 
portions. The  bones  are  largely  mineral  matter,  with 
some  fat  and  protein;  eggshells  are  almost  entirely 
mineral  matter;  bran  of  wheat  has  a  high  content  of 
fiber  or  woody  material.  Generally  speaking,  vegetable 
refuse  is  characterized  by  a  high  content  of  these  latter 
constituents.  In  some  cases  material  which  is  edible  is 
classed  as  refuse  because  the  flavor  is  objectionable. 
Thus  peach  and  plum  pits  are  too  highly  flavored  to  be 
agreeable  if  eaten  in  quantity,  and  are  commonly 
thought  to  be  actually  injurious. 


FOOD  AS  BUILDING  MATERIAL  AND  FUEL. 

THE  BODY  AS  A  MACHNIE.  ) 

Blood  and  muscle,  bone  and  tendon,  brain  and  nerv«— 
all  the  organs  and  tissues  of  the  body — are  built  from 
the  nutritive  ingredients  of  food.  With  every  motion  of 
the  body  and  with  the  exercise  of  feeling  and  thought 
as  well,  material  is  consumed  and  must  be  resupplied 
by  food.  In  a  sense,  the  body  is  a  superior  machine. 
Like  other  machines,  it  requires  material  to  build  up  its 
several  parts,  to  repair  them  as  they  are  worn  out,  and 
to  serve  as  fuel.  In  some  ways  it  uses  this  material  like 
a  machine;  in  others  it  does  not.  The  steam  engine  gets 
its  power  from  fuel;  the  body  does  the  same.  In  the  one 
case  coal  or  wood,  in  the  other  food,  is  the  fuel.  In  both 
cases  the  energy  which  is  latent  in  the  fuel — the  poten- 
tial energy,  as  it  is  called  in  scientific  language — is 
transformed  into  power  and  heat. 

From  the  time  foods  are  taken  into  the  body  until 
they  are  digested,  absorbed,  utilized,  and  finally  con- 
verted largely  into  the  carbon  dioxide  and  water  vapor 
of  the  breath  and  the  nitrogenous  and  other  excretory 
products  of  the  urine  and  feces,  they  undergo  great 
chemical  changes,  very  many  of  which  liberate  heat  as 
a  result  of  oxidation  or  some  closely  related  process.  It 
is  through  these  complex  chemical  processes  that  the 
body  derives  the  energy  for  internal  and  external  muscu- 
lar work.  Heat  is  evolved  by  such  chemical  changes  and 
also  results  from  the  muscular  work  of  the  body,  and 
there  is  reason  to  be  believe  that  within  wide  limits  the 
heat  thus  produced  is  sufficient  for  maintaining  body 
temperature.  The  amount  of  heat  produced  in  the  body 
must,  of  course,  vary  with  the  amount  of  food  eaten,  the 
work  done,  and  other  circumstances.  However,  the  body 
is  such  a  perfect  piece  of  mechanism  that  the  loss  of 
heat  by  radiation,  etc.,  is  so  adjusted  to  heat  production 
that  body  temperature  remains  fairly  constant. 

One  important  difference  between  the  human  machine 
and  the  steam  engine  is  that  the  former  is  self -building, 
self-repairing,  and  self-regulating.  Another  is  that  the 
material  of  which  the  engine  is  built  is  very  different 
from  that  which  it  uses  for  fuel,  but  part  of  the  ma- 
terial which  serves  the  body  as  a  source  of  energy  also 
builds  it  up  and  keeps  it  in  repair.  Furthermore,  the 
body  can  use  its  own  substance  for  this  purpose.  This 
the  steam  engine  cannot  do.  The  steam  engine  and  the 
body  are  alike  in  that  both  convert  the  fuel  into  me- 
chanical power  and  heat.  They  differ  in  that  the  body 
uses  the  same  material  for  fuel  as  for  building  and  also 
consumes  its  own  material  for  fuel.  In  the  use  of  its 
source  of  pov/er  the  body  is  much  more  economical  than 
any  engine. 

But  the  body  is  more  than  a  machine.  It  has  not 
simply  organs  to  build  and  keep  in  repair  and  supply 
with  energy;  it  has  a  nei-vous  organization;  it  has  sensi- 
bilities; and  there  are  the  higher  intellectual  and  spirit- 
ual faculties.  The  right  exercise  of  these  depends  upon 
the  right  nutrition  of  the  body. 

The  chief  uses  of  food,  then,  are  two:  (1)  To  form 
the  material  of  the  body  and  repair  its  wastes,  and 
(2)  to  fui-nish  muscular  end  other  power  for  the  work 
the  body  has  to  do  and  yield  heat  to  keep  the  body  warm. 
In  forming  the  tissues  and  the  fluids  of  the  body  the 
food  serves  for  building  and  repair.  In  yielding  power 
and  heat  it  serves  as  fuel. 

If  more  food  is  eaten  than  is  needed,  more  or  less  of 
the  surplus  may  be  and  sometimes  is  stored  in  the  body, 
chiefly  in  the  form  of  fat.  The  fat  in  the  body  forms 
a  sort  of  reserve  supply  of  fuel  and  is  utilized  in  the 
place  of  food.  When  the  work  is  hard  or  the  food  supply 


GOVERNMENT    COOK  BOOK- 


IT 


is  low  the  body  draws  upon  this  store  of  fat  and  grows 
lean. 

PROTEIN  AS  BUILDING  MATERIAL. 

The  principal  tissue  formers  are  the  protein  com- 
pounds, especially  the  albuminoids.  These  make  the 
framework  of  the  body.  They  build  up  and  repair  the 
nitrogeneous  materials,  as  the  muscles  and  tendons,  and 
supply  the  albuminoids  of  the  blood,  milk  and  other 
fluids. 

The  albuminoids  of  food  are  transformed  into  the 
albuminoids  and  gelatinoids  of  the  body.  Muscle,  ten- 
don and  cartilage,  bone  and  skin,  the  corpuscles  of  the 
blood,  and  the  casein  of  milk  are  made  of  the  albumi- 
noids of  food.  The  albuminoids  are  sometimes  called 
"flesh  formers"  or  "muscle  formers,"  because  the  lean 
flesh,  the  muscle,  is  made  from  them,  though  the  term 
is  inadequate,  as  it  leaves  out  of  account  the  energy- 
furnishing  function  of  protein.  The  gelatinoids  of  food, 
such  as  the  finer  particles  of  tendon  and  the  gelatin, 
which  are  dissolved  out  of  bone  and  meat  in  soup,  though 
somewhat  similar  to  the  albuminoids  in  composition,  are 
not  believed  to  be  tissue  formers;  but  they  are  valuable 
in  protecting  the  albuminoids  from  consumption.  That 
is,  when  the  food  contains  gelatinoids  in  abundance  less 
of  albuminoids  is  used. 

The  proteids  can  be  so  changed  in  the  body  as  to  yield 
fats  and  carbohydrates,  and  such  changes  actually  occur 
to  some  extent.  In  this  and  other  ways  they  supply  the 
body  with  fuel. 

PROTEIN  AS  FUEL  FOR  THE  BODY. 

The  protein  compounds  are  not  only  used  for  build- 
ing and  repairing  tissue,  but  are  also  burned  directly 
in  the  body  like  the  carbohydrates,  and  thus  render  im- 
portant service  as  fuel.  A  dog  can  live  on  lean  meat. 
He  can  convert  its  material  into  muscle  and  its  energy 
into  heat  and  muscular  power.  Man  can  do  the  same; 
but  such  a  one-sided  diet  would  not  be  best  for  the  dog 
and  it  would  be  still  worse  for  man.  The  natural  food 
for  camiverous  animals,  like  the  dog,  supplies  fats  and 
some  carbohydrates,  and  that  for  omnivorous  animals, 
like  man,  furnishes  fats  and  carbohydrates  in  liberal 
amounts  along  with  protein.  Herbivorous  animals,  like 
horses,  cattle  and  sheep,  naturally  require  large  propor- 
tions of  carbohydrates. 

FATS  AND  CARBOHYDRATES  AS  FUEL. 

Fats  and  carbohydrates  are  the  chief  fuel  ingredients 
of  food.  Sugar  and  the  starch  of  bread  and  potatoes 
are  burned  in  the  body  to  yield  heat  and  power.  The 
fats,  such  as  the  fat  of  meat  and  butter,  serve  the  same 
purpose,  only  they  are  a  more  concentrated  fuel  than 
the  carbohydrates. 

The  body  can  also  transform  carbohydrates  of  food 
into  fat.  This  fat,  and  with  it  that  stored  from  the 
food,  is  kept  in  the  body  as  reserve  fuel  in  the  most 
concentrated  form. 

The  different  nutrients  can  to  a  greater  or  less  extent 
do  one  another's  work.  If  the  body  has  not  enough  of 
one  kind  of  fuel  it  can  use  another.  But,  while  protein 
can  be  burned  in  the  place  of  fats  and  carbohydrates, 
neither  of  the  latter  can  take  the  place  of  the  albumi- 
noids in  building  and  repairing  the  tissues.  At  the  same 
time  the  gelatinoids,  fats  and  carbohydrates,  by  being 
consumed  themselves,  protect  the  albuminoids  from  con- 
Bumption. 

VALUE  OF  FOOD  FOR  SUPPLYING  ENERGY. 

Heat  and  muscular  power  are  forms  of  force  or 
energy.    The  energy  latent  in  the  food  is  developed  as 


the  food  is  consumed  in  the  body.  The  process  is  more 
or  less  akin  to  that  which  takes  place  when  coal  is 
burned  in  the  furnace  of  the  locomotive.  For  the  burn- 
ing of  the  food  in  the  body  or  the  coal  in  the  furnace, 
air  is  used  to  supply  oxygen.  When  the  fuel  is  oxidized, 
be  it  meat  or  wood,  bread  or  coal,  the  latent  energy  be- 
comes active,  or,  in  technical  language,  the  potential 
energy  becomes  kinetic;  it  is  transformed  into  power 
and  heat.  As  various  kinds  of  coal  differ  in  the  amount 
of  heat  given  off  per  ton,  so  various  kinds  of  food  and 
food  ingredients  give  off  different  amounts  of  energy; 
that  is,  have  different  values  as  fuel  in  the  body. 

HEAT  OF  COMBUSTION. 

The  processes  of  oxidation  of  material  and  trans- 
formation of  energy  in  the  body  are  less  simple  than  in 
the  engine  and  less  clearly  understood.  Later  research, 
however,  has  given  us  ways  of  measuring  the  energy 
latent  in  coal,  wood,  and  in  food  materials  as  well.  This 
is  most  generally  done  in  the  chemical  laboratory  by  an 
apparatus  called  the  bomb  calorimeter.  The  amount  of 
heat  given  off  in  the  oxidation  of  a  given  quantity  of 
any  material  is  called  its  "heat  of  combustion,"  and  is 
taken  as  a  measure  of  its  latent  or  potential  energy. 
The  unit  commonly  used  is  the  calorie,  the  amount  of 
heat  which  would  raise  the  temperature  of  1  kilogram 
of  water  1°  C,  or,  what  is  nearly  the  same  thing,  1 
pound  of  water  4°  F.  Instead  of  this  unit  of  heat  a 
unit  of  mechanical  energy  may  be  used — for  instance, 
the  foot-ton,  which  represents  the  force  required  to  raise. 
1  ton  1  foot.  One  calorie  is  equal  to  very  nearly  1.54  ■ 
foot-tons;  that  is  to  say,  1  calorie  of  heat,  when  trans- 
formed into  mechanical  power,  would  suffice  to  lift  1 
ton  1.54  feet. 

THE  CONSERVATION  OF  ENERGY  IN  THE  BODY. 

The  amounts  of  energy  transformed  in  the  body  when 
food  and  its  own  material  are  burned  vdthin  it  are 
measured  with  the  respiration  calorimeter.  It  is  well 
known  that  the  food  is  not  completely  oxidized  in  the 
body.  These  experiments  have  shown  that  the  material 
which  is  oxidized  yields  the  same  amount  of  energy  as  it 
would  if  burned  with  oxygen  outside  the  body,  e.  g.,  in 
the  bomb  calorimeter.  The  experiments  show  also  that 
when  a  man  does  no  muscular  work  (save,  of  course, 
the  internal  work  of  respiration,  circulation,  etc.),  all 
the  energy  leaves  his  body  as  heat;  but  when  he  does 
muscular  work,  as  in  lifting  weights  or  driving  a  bicycle, 
part  of  the  energy  appears  in  the  external  work  thus 
done,  and  the  rest  is  given  off  from  the  body  as  heat. 
The  most  interesting  result  of  all  is  that  the  energy 
given  off  from  the  body  as  heat  when  the  man  is  at 
rest,  or  as  heat  and  mechanical  work  together  when  he 
is  working,  exactly  equals  the  latent  energy  of  the  ma- 
terial burned  in  the  body.  This  is  in  accordance  with 
the  law  of  the  conservation  of  energy.  It  thus  appears 
that  the  body  actually  obeys,  as  we  should  expect  it  to 
obey,  this  great  law  which  dominates  the  physical  uni- 
verse. 

FUEL  VALUE. 

We  may  make  practical  application  of  this  principle 
of  the  conservation  of  energy  in  the  body  in  measuring 
the  actual  value  of  food  as  fuel  to  the  body,  i.  e.,  its 
"fuel  value,"  by  use  of  the  bomb  and  respiration  calori- 
meters. To  do  this  we  have  to  take  into  account  the 
chemical  composition  of  the  food,  the  proportions  of  the 
nutrients  actually  digested  and  oxidized  in  the  body,  and 
the  proportion  of  the  whole  latent  energy  of  each  which 
becomes  active  and  useful  to  the  body  for  warmth  and 
work.  Taking  our  common  food  materials  as  they  ara 
used  in  ordinary  diet,  the  following  general  estimate 


18 


GOVERNMENT    COOK  BOOK. 


has  been  made  for  the  energy  furnished  to  the  body  by 
1  gram  or  1  pound  of  each  of  the  classes  of  nutrients: 

Protein,  fuel  value,  4  calories  per  gram,  or  1,820 
calories  per  pound. 

Fats,  fuel  value,  9  calories  per  gram,  or  4,040  calories 
per  pound. 

Carbohydrates,  fuel  value,  4  calories  per  gram,  or 
1,820  calories  per  pound. 

It  will  be  seen  that  when  we  compare  the  nutrients 
in  respect  to  their  fuel  value,  their  capacities  for  yield- 
ing heat  and  mechanical  power,  a  pound  of  protein  of 
lean  meat  or  albumen  of  egg  is  just  about  equivalent  to 
a  pound  of  sugar  or  starch,  and  a  little  over  2  pounds 
of  either  would  be  required  to  equal  a  pound  of  the  fat 
of  meat  or  butter  or  of  body  fat. 

The  fuel  value  of  food  obviously  depends  upon  the 
amounts  of  actual  nutrients,  and  especially  upon  the 
amount  of  fat  it  contains.  Thus  a  pound  of  wheat 
flour,  which  consists  largely  of  starch,  has  an  average 
fuel  value  of  about  1,625  calories,  and  a  pound  of  butter, 
which  is  mostly  fat,  about  3,410  calories.  These  are 
only  about  one-eighth  water.  Whole  milk,  which  is 
seven-eighths  water,  has  an  average  fuel  value  of  310 
calories  per  pound;  cream,  which  has  more  fat  and  less 
water,  865  calories,  and  skim  milk,  which  is  whole  milk 
after  the  cream  has  been  removed,  165  calories. 

This  high  fuel  value  of  fat  explains  the  economy  of 
nature  in  storing  fat  in  the  body  for  use  in  case  of  need. 
Fat  is  the  most  concentrated  form  of  body  fuel. 

We  have  been  considering  food  as  a  source  of  heat 
and  muscular  power.  There  is  no  doubt  that  intellectual 
activity,  also,  is  somehow  dependent  upon  the  consump- 
tion of  material  which  the  brain  has  obtained  from  the 
food;  but  just  what  substances  are  consumed  to  pro- 
duce brain  and  nerve  force,  and  how  much  of  each  is 
required  for  a  given  quantity  of  intellectual  labor,  are 
questions  which  the  physiological  chemist  has  not  yet 
answered. 

HOW  THE  FUNCTIONS  AND  NUTRITIVE  VALUE 
OF  FOOD  ARE  LEARNED. 

The  principles  above  explained  are  based  upon  a  great 
deal  of  experimenting  and  observation.  The  experiment- 
ing is  of  many  kinds,  but  of  especial  importance  is  the 
work  with  the  respiration  apparatus  and  respiration 
calorimeter. 

Various  forms  of  respiratton  apparatus  have  been 
devised  within  the  last  fifty  years.  Among  the  most 
important  are  those  invented  by  Pettenkofer  and  Voit 
in  Munich.  They  consist  of  metal-walled  chambers  large 
enough  for  the  subject  (sometimes  a  man,  sometimes  a 
do.^,  sheep,  or  other  animal)  to  live  in  comfortably  for 
several  days,  and  are  furnished  with  devices  for  pump- 
ing air  through  and  measuring  and  analyzing  it  as  it 
enters  and  leaves  the  chamber.  With  such  an  apparatus 
it  is  possible  not  only  to  measure  all  the  food  and  ex- 
creta, but  also  the  materials  given  off  from  the  lungs 
in  the  breath,  and  to  make  accurate  determination  of 
the  matter  entering  and  leaving  the  body. 

A  still  more  elaborate  apparatus,  by  which  not  only 
all  the  matter  passing  in  and  out  of  the  body  may  be 
measured,  but  also  all  the  heat  given  off  from  it,  is 
called  a  respiration  calorimeter — that  is,  a  machine  for 
measuring  both  the  respiratory  products  and  the  heat 
given  off  by  the  body.  It  is  like  the  respiration  ap- 
paratus, except  that  it  is  furnished  with  devices  for 
measuring  temperatures.  Several  have  been  built  in 
Europe  within  the  last  twenty  years,  among  the  most 
successful  being  by  Rubner  and  Rosenthal.  One  was 
recently  built  by  the  author  and  Professor  Rosa  at 
.Wesleyan  University.    Its  main  feature  is  a  copper- 


walled  chamber  7  feet  long,  4  feet  wide,  and  6  feet  4 
inches  high.  This  is  fitted  with  devices  for  maintrin- 
ing  and  measuring  a  ventilating  current  of  air,  for 
sampling  and  analyzing  this  air,  for  removing  and  meas- 
uring the  heat  given  off  within  the  chamber,  and  for 
passing  food  and  other  articles  in  and  out.  It  is  fur- 
nished with  a  folding  bed,  chair,  and  table,  with  scales 
and  with  appliances  for  muscular  work,  and  has  tele- 
phone connection  with  the  outside.  Here  the  subject 
stays  for  a  period  of  from  three  to  twelve  days,  during 
which  time  careful  analyses  and  measurements  are  made 
of  all  material  which  enters  the  body  in  the  food  and  of 
that  which  leaves  it  in  the  breath  and  excreta.  Record 
is  also  kept  of  the  energy  given  off  from  the  body  as 
heat  and  muscular  work.  The  differences  between  the 
material  taken  into  and  that  given  off  from  the  body 
is  called  the  balance  of  matter,  and  shows  whether  the 
body  is  gaining  or  losing  material.  The  difference  be- 
tween the  energy  of  the  food  taken  and  that  of  the  ex- 
creta and  the  energy  given  off  from  the  body  as  hea^ 
and  muscular  woi'k,  is  the  balance  of  enex-gy,  and  if 
correctly  estimated  should  equal  the  energy  of  thc^  body 
material  gained  or  lost. 

With  such  apparatus  it  is  possible  to  learn  what  effect 
different  conditions  of  nourishment  will  have  on  the 
human  body.  In  one  experiment,  for  instance,  the  sub- 
ject might  be  kept  quite  at  rest,  and  in  the  next  do  a 
certain  amount  of  muscular  or  mental  work,  with  the 
f^ame  diet  as  before.  Then  by  comparing  the  results  of 
the  two  the  use  which  the  body  makes  of  its  food  under 
the  different  conditions  could  be  determined.  Or  the 
diet  may  be  slightly  changed  in  one  experinient  and  the 
effect  of  this  on  the  balance  of  matter  and  energy 
observed.  Such  methods  and  apparatus  ai'e  very  costly 
in  time  and  money,  but  the  results  are  proportionately 
more  valuable  than  those  from  simpler  experiments. 

FOOD  AND  FOOD  ECONOMY. 

What  has  thus  far  been  said  about  the  ingredients  of 
food  and  the  ways  they  are  used  in  the  body  may  be 
briefly  summarized  in  the  following  schematic  manner: 

Nutritive  ingredients  (or  nutrients)  of  food. 

'Water. 


Food  as  pur- 
chased con- 
tains— 


Edible 
e.  s., 
yolk- 
eggs, 
etc. 


portion   • 

flesh  of  meat, 
and    white  of 
wheat,  flour, 


Refuse, 
e.  g.,  bones, 


rProtein. 
I  Fats, 
.nutrients.  J  Carbohy- 
drates. 
Mineral 
L  matters. 


L  shells, 


entrails, 
bran,  etc. 


Uses  of  nutients  in  the  body 

Protein   Forms  tissue.. 

e.  K.,  white  ^(albumen)  of 
egKS,  cui-d  (casein)  of 
milk,  lean  meat,  gluten 
of  wheat,  etc. 


All  serve  as  fuel 
to  yield  en- 
ergy in  the 
forms  of  heat 
and  muscular 
power. 


Fats   Are  stored  as  fat  - 

e.  g.,  fat  of  meat,  butter, 
olive  oil,  oils  of  corn  and 
wheat,  etc. 

Carbohydrates   \re  transformed 

e.  g.,  sugar,  starch,  etc.       into  fat  

Mineral  matters  (ash)  Share  in  forming  bone,  assist  in  di- 

e.  g.,  phosphates  of  lime,    gestion,  etc. 
potash,  soda,  etc. 

The  views  thus  presented  lead  to  the  following  defini- 
tions: (1)  Food  is  that  which,  taken  into  the  bo<]y, 
builds  tissues  or  yields  energy;  (2)  the  most  healthful 
food  is  that  which  is  best  fitted  to  the  needs  of  the  user; 
(3)  the  cheapest  food  is  that  which  furnishes  the  largest 
amount  of  nutriment  at  the  lea.st  cost;  and  (4)  the  best 
food  is  that  which  is  both  most  healthful  and  cheapest. 

Wc  have,  then,  to  consider  the  kinds  and  amounts  of 
nutrients  in  different  food  materials,  their  digestibility, 


GOVERNMENT 


the  kinds  and  amounts  needed  foi-  nourishment  by  per- 
sons under  different  conditions  of  rest  and  work,  and 
the  nutritive  value  of  different  food  products  as  com- 
pared with  their  cost. 

COMPOSITION  OF  COMMON  FOOD  MATERIALS. 

The  value  of  food  for  nutriment  depends  mainly  upon 
its  composition  and  digestibility.  The  composition  of 
foods  is  determined  by  chemical  analysis.  The  fir^t 
effective  impulse  to  the  systematic  study  of  the  chem- 
istry of  foods  was  given  by  Liebig  somewhat  ever  50 
years  ago,  but  nearly  all  of  our  definite  knowledge  of 
the  chemical  composition  of  food  materials  has  accumu- 
lated within  comparatively  a  few  years  past. 

Until  about  the  year  1880  those  who  wished  to  know 
about  the  chemical  composition  of  food  materials  were 
compelled  to  depend  upon  analyses  of  European  prod- 
ucts, and  most  of  those  analyses  had  been  made  in  Ger- 
man laboratories.  During  the  last  two  decades,  how- 
ever, American  investigations  have  accumulated  until  at 
the  present  time  the  results  Of  over  4,000  analyses  of 
food  materials  from  different  parts  of  the  United  States 
are  available.  A  large  proportion  of  these  analyses  have 
been  made  during  the  last  few  years  in  connection  with 
nutrition  investigations  under  the  auspices  of  the  De- 
partment of  Agriculture. 

The  methods  of  chemical  analysis  of  foods  are  now 
so  nearly  uniform  throughout  the  world  that  the  analyses 
reported  from  different  countries  furnish  a  reliable 
means  of  comparing  the  composition  of  the  food  prod- 
ucts of  different  parts  of  the  world. 

PROPORTIONS  OF  NON-NUTRIENTS  IN  FOODS. 

It  will  be  interesting  to  note  some  of  the  differences 
in  food  materials  as  shown  by  their  composition.  One 
of  the  first  things  which  may  be  observed  is  the  differ- 
ences in  the  proportions  of  non-nutrients,  i.  e.,  refuse 
and  water.  Many  kinds  of  food  as  they  are  purchased 
contain  large  amounts  of  refuse,  as  the  skin  and  bones 
of  meat  and  fish,  the  skin  or  rind  and  seeds  of  vegeta- 
bles, etc.,  which  necessarily  lessen  the  proportion  of 
nutrients.  While  such  refuse  is  found  in  meats,  fish, 
eggs,  fresh  vegetables  and  fruits,  it  is  usually  absent  in 
the  dairy  products  (milk,  butter,  cheese,  etc.),  dried 
vegetables,  cereal  foods  (flour,  breakfast  foods,  etc.), 
and  the  bread,  cakes  and  other  foods  prepared  from 
them.  In  considering  the  edible  portion  we  find  that 
the  amount  of  water  present  also  affects  the  nutritive 
value  of  food.  Water  is  necessary  to  the  body,  and  it 
is  usually  supplied  in  abundance  by  beverages,  although 
the  amount  contained  in  the  solid  food  consumed  in  a 
day  is  quite  considerable.  Water  forms  from  40  to  50 
per  cent,  of  the  ordinaiy  cuts  of  meat;  it  is  especially 
abundant  in  the  flesh  of  lean  animals,  and  tends  to 
decrease  as  fat  increases,  and  vice  versa.  It  is  even 
more  abundant  in  fresh  fish  than  in  meats,  but  in  dried 
fish  there  is,  of  course,  comparatively  little.  Fresh 
vegetables  and  fruits  contain  sometimes  as  much  as  80 
or  90  per  cent,  or  more  of  water,  while  dried  seeds  and 
the  food  materials  prepared  from  them  (beans,  peas, 
meals,  flour,  cereal  breakfast  foods,  etc.)  usually  con- 
tain, roughly  speaking,  from  10  to  12  per  cent,  of  water. 
Many  cooked  foods  contain  more  water  than  the  i-aw 
materials  from  which  they  are  made,  owing  to  the  quan- 
tities added  in  cooking.  Thus  some  thin  soups  are  little 
more  than  flavored  and  colored  water,  and,  of  course, 
have  an  extremely  low  nutritive  value.  In  other  cooked 
foods,  notably  meat,  which  have  been  baked,  roasted,  or 
fried,  the  amount  of  water  is  diminished  by  cooking. 


COOK    BOOK.  19 


PROPORTIONS  OF  NUTRIENTS   IN  FOODS. 

The  most  important  of  the  actual  nutrients  has  been 
seen  to  be  protein.  This  occurs  most  abundantly  in  ani- 
mal foods — meat,  fish,  eggs,  and  dairy  products,  and  in 
the  dried  legumes,  as  beans  and  peas.  Butter  and  lard 
are  exceptions  to  this  statement,  as  they  represent  the 
fat  of  milk  and  meat.  The  proportions  of  protein  present 
in  meats  and  fish  varies  greatly  with  the  kind  and  cut. 
In  beef,  veal  and  mutton  it  composes  between  14  and  26 
per  cent,  of  the  edible  portion.  It  is  generally  less 
abundant  in  the  flesh  of  fish,  because  the  latter  is  more 
watery  than  meat.  The  fatter  the  meat  the  smaller  is 
the  proportion  of  protein;  lean  pork  has  less  than  beef 
and  mutton,  and  fat  pork  almost  none.  It  is  more  abun- 
dant in  cheese  (28  to  38  per  cent.)  and  likewise  in  dried 
beans  and  peas  (18  to  25  per  cent.).  Protein  makes 
up,  roughly  speaking,  from  7  to  15  per  cent,  of  the 
cereals,  being  least  abundant  in  rye  and  buckwheat  and 
most  abundant  in  oats.  Wheat  flour  averages  not  far 
from  11  per  cent,  and  bread  not  far  from  9  per  cent,  of 
protein.  Fresh  vegetables  and  fruits  contain  almost  no 
protein,  seldom  if  ever  more  than  5  and  often  only  1  per 
cent,  or  less. 

The  chief  sources  of  fat  in  ordinary  diet  are  the  ani- 
mal foods,  though  some  fat  is  derived  from  vegetable 
foods.  The  quantities  present  in  meats  vary  consider- 
ably, ranging  from  less  than  10  per.  cent,  in  some  cuts 
of  beef  and  veal  to  over  40  per  cent,  in  a  side  of  pork 
and  over  80  per  cent,  in  fat  salt  pork.  The  leaner  fish, 
like  cod  and  haddock,  usually  contain  almost  none,  but 
in  the  fatter  kind,  like  shad,  mackerel,  and  notably 
salmon,  there  is  often  from  5  to  10  per  cent,  and  some- 
times as  much  as  15  per  cent,  of  fat.  The  chemical 
composition  of  salmon  is  not  unlike  that  of  lean  meat. 
In  Doth  meat  and  fish  the  increase  of  fat  usually  means 
a  decrease  in  the  proportion  of  water,  as  was  stated 
above.  Milk  averages  about  4  per  cent,  of  fat.  Butter 
is,  as  we  have  seen,  nearly  pure  fat,  and  whole  milk 
cheese  may  have  anywhere  from  25  to  40  per  cent,  of 
fat,  according  to  the  richness  of  the  cream  or  milk  from 
which  it  is  made. 

The  olive  and  the  cotton  seed  are  rich  in  fat,  large 
quantities  of  them  being  used  annually  for  the  produc- 
tion of  oils.  Most  of  our  common  edible  nuts  also  con- 
tain considerable  fat.  With  the  exception  of  oatmeal, 
which  contains  about  7  per  cent.,  there  is  comparatively 
little  fat  in  the  cereals  in  the  form  in  which  they  are 
ordinarily  purchased,  or  in  the  dried  legumes,  while  in 
the  green  vegetables  and  most  fruits  it  is  practically 
wanting. 

The  carbohydrates,  unlike  the  fats,  are  almost  entirely 
absent  from  the  animal  foods,  except  milk,  but  form  the 
most  important  nutrient  of  most  vegetable  foods.  Soma 
glycogen  (a  carbohydrate)  is  found  in  the  liver  and  in 
other  animal  tissues.  The  carbohydrates  make  up  from 
70  to  80  per  cent,  of  the  cereals,  60  to  70  per  cent,  of  the 
dried  legumes,  and  the  bulk  of  the  nutrients  of  fresh 
vegetables  and  fruits.  The  nutrients  of  sugar,  molasses, 
honey,  etc.,  are,  of  course,  almost  entirely  carbohydrates. 

Mineral  matters  occur  in  all  the  ordinary  articles  of 
food.  Fresh  meats  and  fish  contain  not  far  from  1  per 
cent.,  although  in  fat,  unsalted  pork  the  quantity  may 
be  as  small  as  0.1  per  cent.  Milk  contains  about  0.7 
per  cent,  mineral  matters.  In  the  cereals  the  propor- 
tion ranges  from  about  0.3  to  over  2  per  cent.,  while 
in  green  vegetables  and  fruits  it  is  usually  less  than  1 
per  cent.  The  dried  legumes  contain  3  to  4  per  cent,  of 
mineral  matters. 

In  brief,  then,  it  may  be  said  that  meats,  fish,  eggs, 
milk,  fresh  vegetables,  and   fruits   contain   the  most 


20 


COOK  BOOK. 


refuse  and  water;  that  protein  is  most  abundant  in  the 
animal  foods  and  in  the  legumes  and  occurs  in  consider- 
able quantities  in  the  cereals;  that  fats  occur  principally 
in  the  animal  foods;  that  carbohydrates  are  found  al- 
most exclusively  in  the  vegetable  products  and  milk;  and 
that  small  quantities  of  mineral  matters  are  found  in  all 
food  materials.  The  fuel  value  varies  within  wide  limits, 
being  greatest  in  those  materials  which  contain  the  most 
fat  and  the  least  water. 

DIGESTION,  ASSIMILATION  AND  EXCRETION. 

"We  live  not  upon  what  we  eat,  but  upon  what  we 
digest."  Food  as  we  buy  it  in  the  market,  or  even  as 
we  eat  it,  is  not  usually  in  condition  to  be  made  into 
body  structure  or  used  as  body  fuel.  It  must  first  go 
through  a  series  of  chemical  changes  by  what  is  called 
digestion,  which  prepares  it  to  be  absorbed,  taken  into 
the  blood  and  lymph,  and  carried  to  the  parts  of  the  body 
where  is  it  needed.  Digestion  takes  place  in  the  alimen- 
tary canal,  partly  in  the  stomach,  but  more  in  the  in- 
testine. As  the  result,  the  useless  portions  are  sep- 
arated and  rejected,  while  the  parts  which  can  serve 
for  nutriment  are  changed  into  forms  in  which  they  can 
be  absorbed,  taken  into  the  circulation  and  utilized. 

DIGESTION. 

The  alterations  which  the  food  undergoes  in  digestion 
are  brought  about  by  substances  called  ferments,  which 
are  secreted  by  the  digestive  organs.  The  saliva  in  the 
mouth  has  the  power  of  changing  insoluble  starches  into 
soluble  sugar,  but  as  the  food  stays  in  the  mouth  only 
a  short  time,  there  is  generally  little  chance  for  such 
action.  The  saliva,  however,  helps  to  fit  the  food  to  be 
more  easily  worked  on  by  the  stomach.  The  gastric 
juice  of  the  stomach  acts  upon  protein,  and  the  pan- 
creatic juice  of  the  intestine  upon  protein,  fats  and  car- 
bohydrates. The  action  of  all  the  ferments  is  aided  by 
the  fine  division  of  the  food  by  chewing  and  by  the 
muscular  contractions,  the  so-called  peristaltic  action,  of 
the  stomach  and  intestine.  These  latter  motions  help 
to  mix  the  digestive  juices  and  their  ferments  with  the 
food. 

The  pai'ts  of  the  food  which  the  digestive  juices  can- 
not dissolve,  and  which,  therefore,  escape  digestion,  are 
periodically  given  off  by  the  intestine.  Such  solid  ex- 
creta, or  feces,  include  not  only  the  particles  of  undi- 
gested food,  but  also  the  so-called  metabolic  products, 
i.  e.,  residues  of  the  digestive  juices,  bits  of  the  lining 
of  the  alimentary  canal,  etc. 

ABSORPTION  AND  ASSIMILATION. 

The  digested  food  finds  its  way  through  the  walls  of 
the  alimentary  canal,  and  at  this  time  and  later  it  un- 
dergoes remarkable  chemical  changes.  When  finally 
the  blood,  supplied  with  the  nutrients  of  the  digested 
food  and  freighted  with  oxygen  from  the  lungs,  is 
pumped  from  the  heart  all  over  the  body  it  is  ready  to 
furnish  the  organs  and  tissues  with  the  materials  and 
energy  which  they  need  for  their  peculiar  functions;  at 
the  same  time  it  carries  away  the  waste  which  the  ex- 
ercise of  these  functions  has  produced.  It  is  a  charac- 
teristic of  living  body  tissue  that  it  can  choose  the  neces- 
sary materials  from  the  blood  and  build  them  into  its 
own  structure.  How  it  does  this  is  one  of  the  mysteries 
of  physiology.  The  body,  as  we  have  learned,  has  also 
the  power  of  consuming  not  only  the  materials  of  the 
food,  but  also  parts  of  its  own  structure  for  the  pro- 
duction of  muscular  work,  or  heat,  or  to  protect  more 
important  parts  from  consumption.  How  it  does  this  is 
another  mystery,  still  to  be  explained. 


EXCRETION. 

After  the  material  has  been  thus  assimilated  and 
utilized  the  resulting  waste  products  must  be  removed 
from  the  body.  The  chemical  elements  which  this  waste 
contains  are,  of  course,  the  same  as  those  making  up 
the  structure  of  the  body  and  the  food — carbon,  oxygen, 
hydrogen,  nitrogen,  calcium,  phosphorus,  sulphur,  etc. 
Most  of  the  carbon  and  part  of  the  oxygen  are  given 
off  from  the  lungs  as  carbon  dioxid.  Hydrogen  unites 
with  more  oxygen  to  form  water,  which  is  passed  off  in 
vapor  from  the  lungs,  in  perspiration  from  the  skin,  and 
in  urine  from  the  kidneys.  Almost  all  the  nitrogen  is 
excreted  in  the  urine.  Waste  mineral  matters  are  given 
off  to  some  extent  in  the  perspiration,  but  mainly 
through  the  kidneys  and  intestines. 

APPARENT  AND  ACTUAL  DIGESTIBILITY. 

The  real  nutritive  value  of  a  food,  then,  depends  not 
simply  on  the  proportions  of  nutrients  which  it  contains, 
but  also  on  the  amount  of  those  nutrients  which  can  be 
made  available  to  the  body  by  digestion  for  building  ma- 
terial and  for  fuel.  Part  of  the  food  eaten  escapes 
digestion  and  is  given  off  from  the  body  in  the  feces. 
If  we  subtract  the  amount  of  this  undigested  residue 
from  the  total  food,  the  remainder  will  be  the  amount 
actually  digested  in  the  stomach  and  intestine,  absorbed 
through  their  walls,  and  taken  into  the  circulation.  This 
difference  between  the  amounts  eaten  and  those  undi- 
gested represents  the  actual  digestibility  of  food.  A  part 
of  the  food  taken  into  the  circulation,  however,  is  later 
returned  again  to  the  alimentary  canal  mainly  in  the 
digestive  juices  that  are  needed  for  digesting  the  food. 
The  material  thus  removed  from  circulation  and  re- 
turned to  the  alimentary  canal,  which  consists  of  so- 
called  metabolic  products,  is  excreted  with  the  undi- 
gested residue  in  the  feces.  The  remainder  of  the  food 
taken  into  the  circulation  represents  the  amount  retained 
by  the  body  for  building  material  and  for  fuel.  The 
difference  between  the  food  which  is  absorbed  and  that 
which  the  body  secures,  therefore,  is  represented  by  the 
metabolic  products.  By  the  present  methods  of  experi- 
menting, however,  the  portion  of  the  feces  that  consists 
of  metabolic  products  cannot  be  satisfactorily  distin- 
guished from  the  undigested  residue.  It  is  very  diffi- 
cult, therefore,  to  determine  the  actual  digestibility,  but 
comparatively  easy  to  estimate  the  apparent  digesti- 
bility of  food. 

Suppose,  for  instance,  that  15  per  cent,  of  the  protein 
in  a  specimen  of  bread  is  excreted,  then  85  per  cent,  re- 
mains for  the  use  of  the  body.  If  the  bread  has  8.4  per 
cent,  of  protein,  100  pounds  will  have  8.4  pounds,  of 
which  85  per  cent,  or  7.1  pounds  will  be  utilized  by  the 
body. 

EASE  AND  QUICKNESS  OF  DIGESTION. 

The  terms  digestible,  indigestible,  etc.,  as  here  used 
refer  simply  to  the  food  which  is  or  is  not  available  for 
the  general  nourishment  of  the  body  after  the  process 
of  digestion  is  completed.  In  common  parlance,  how- 
ever, they  are  used  more  loosely  as  referring  to  the  ease 
and  quickness  of  digestion,  and  to  the  general  health- 
fulness  of  food.  One  kind  of  food — bread,  for  instance — 
is  spoken  of  as  "simple"  and  "digestible,"  and  another, 
like  fi-uit  eke,  as  "rich"  and  "indigestible."  There  is 
often  much  practical  truth  behind  such  statements, 
though  little  is  definitely  known  concerning  the  time  or 
labor  required  to  digest  different  kinds  of  food. 

Food  does  not  ordinarily  pass  from  the  stomach  into 
the  intestine  until  it  has  been  reduced  to  a  liquid  or 
semi-liquid  condition.  The  length  of  time  required  for 
different  foods  to  leave  the  stomach  has  been  recentlj^ 


GOVERNMENT 


studied  by  Penzoldt  with  healthy  men.  He  used  a  stom- 
ach tube  for  removing  the  stomach  contents  for  examina- 
tion. He  found  that  the  amount  and  consistency  of  food 
have  a  marked  influence  on  the  rate  of  digestion  in  the 
stomach.  Fluids  leave  the  stomach  more  rapidly  than 
^ther  materials.  From  6  to  7  ounces  of  water  or  other 
common  beverages  leave  the  stomach  in  1%  hours.  Seven 
ounces  of  boiled  milk  leave  the  stomach  in  about  2  hours. 
Hot  drinks  do  not  leave  the  stomach  more  quickly  than 
cold  ones,  nor  does  the  quantity  have  much  effect.  Solid 
matter  in  solution  or  suspension  delayed  the  passage 
of  fluid  from  the  stomach  somewhat.  The  consistency 
of  solid  foods  thus  seems  to  have  more  effect  upon 
digestibility  than  the  amount  consumed.  The  quantity 
eaten  increases  the  length  of  time  the  material  remains 
in  the  stomach,  but  not  proportionally. 

To  select  a  few  examples  of  the  time  required  for 
foods  to  leave  the  stomach:  Two  eggs  (raw,  poached,  or 
in  the  form  of  an  omelet),  7  ounces  sweetbreads,  10 
moderate  sized  oysters,  7  ounces  whitefish,  or  3^  ounces 
of  white  bread,  cauliflowers,  or  cherries,  each  left  the 
stomach  in  from  2  to  3  hours.  Eight  and  one-fourth 
ounces  of  chicken,  9  ounces  of  lean  beef,  6  ounces  boiled 
ham,  3  Vss  ounces  roast  veal  or  beefsteak,  5  1-3  ounces  of 
coarse  bread,  boiled  rice,  carrots,  spinach,  radish,  or 
apple,  left  the  stomach  in  3  to  4  hours.  Nine  ounces  of 
Bmoked  tongue,  3%  ounces  beef,  9  ounces  roast  goose, 
51-3  ounces  string  beans,  or  7  ounces  peas  porridge,  left 
the  stomach  in  4  to  5  hours. 

Generally  speaking,  the  most  readily  digested  animal 
foods  were  materials  of  soft  consistency.  White  meats 
— for  example,  chicken — leave  the  stomach  more  quickly 
than  red  meats  or  dark  meat — for  instance,  duck.  The 
method  of  cooking  also  exerts  a  very  marked  influence 
on  stomach  digestion.  Fresh  fish  was  found  to  be  more 
readily  digested  than  meats. 

As  regards  vegetable  foods  in  general,  the  consistency 
and  the  amounts  of  solid  material  were  again  the  prin- 
cipal factors  affecting  the  time  required  for  digestion 
in  the  stomach.  Mealy  potatoes,  for  instance,  were  more 
easily  digested  than  waxy  potatoes,  and  mashed  potato 
more  readily  than  potato  cut  up  in  pieces.  Fine  bread 
was  more  quickly  digested  than  coarse  bread.  There 
was  not  much  difference  in  the  time  required  for  bread 
crust,  bread  crumb,  toast,  new  bread  and  stale  bread  to 
digest  in  the  stomach,  provided  all  were  equally  well 
chewed. 

It  must  be  remembered  that  digestion  continues  in  the 
intestine  and  that  the  total  time  required  for  the  diges- 
tion and  absorption  of  the  nutrients  in  any  given  food 
material  is  not  shown  by  such  experimants.  They  find 
their  chief  application  in  prescribing  a  diet  for  invalids, 
as  in  such  cases  it  is  often  desirable  to  require  of  the 
stomach  only  a  limited  amount  of  work. 

AGREEMENT  OF  FOOD  WITH  INDIVIDUALS. 

Digestibility  is  often  confused  with  another  very  dif- 
ferent thing,  namely,  the  agreeing  or  disagreeing  of 
food  with  the  person  who  eats  it.  During  the  process  of 
digestion  and  assimilation  the  food,  as  we  have  seen, 
undergoes  many  chemical  changes,  some  of  thepi  in  the 
intestines,  some  in  the  liver,  muscles,  and  other  organs. 
In  these  changes  chemical  compounds  may  be  formed 
which  are  in  one  way  or  another  unpleasant  and  inju- 
rious, especially  if  they  are  not  broken  down  (as  nor- 
mally they  are)  before  they  have  opportunities  thus  to 
act.  Some  of  the  compounds  produced  from  the  food 
in  the  body  may  be  actually  poisonous. 

Different  persons  are  differently  constituted  with  re- 
spect to  the  chemical  changes  which  their  food  under- 
goes and  the  effect  produced  so  that  it  may  be  literally 


COOK    BOOK.  21 


true  that  "one  man's  meat  is  another  man's  poison." 
Milk  is  for  most  people  a  very  wholesome,  digestible  and 
nutritious  food,  but  there  are  persons  who  are  made  ill 
drinking  it,  and  they  should  avoid  milk.  The  writer 
knows  a  boy  who  is  made  seriously  ill  by  eating  eggs. 
A  small  piece  of  sweet  cake  in  which  eggs  have  been 
used  will  cause  him  serious  trouble.  The  sickness  is 
nature's  evidence  that  eggs  are  for  him  an  unfit  ar- 
ticle of  food.  Some  persons  have  to  avoid  strawberries. 
Indeed,  cases  in  which  the  most  wholesome  kinds  of  food 
are  nurtful  to  individual  persons  are,  unfortunately, 
numerous.  Every  man  must  learn  from  his  own  expe- 
rience what  food  agrees  with  him  and  what  does  not. 

How  much  harm  is  done  by  the  injurious  compounds 
sometimes  formed  from  ordinary  wholesome  foods  is 
seldom  realized.  Physiological  chemistry  is  revealing 
the  fact  that  these  compounds  may  affect  even  the  brain 
and  nerves,  and  that  some  forms  of  insanity  are  caused 
by  products  formed  by  the  abnormal  transformations  of 
food  and  body  material. 

PROPORTIONS    OF    DIGESTIBLE    NUTRIENTS  IN 
FOOD  MATERIALS. 

During  the  past  few  years  many  experiments  have 
been  made  to  test  the  proportions  of  nutrients  digested 
from  ordinary  food  materials.  In  making  the  experi- 
ments the  subjects  are  kept  on  a  simple  diet,  all  the 
food  and  solid  excreta  are  analyzed,  and  the  difference 
between  the  two  is  taken  to  represent  the  amount  of 
food  which  the  body  secures  for  nutriment.  Most  of 
the  subjects  have  been  people  in  good  health;  the  great 
majority  have  been  men,  but  a  few  women,  and  especially 
children. 

From  comparison  of  the  results  of  many  such  experi- 
ments much  interesting  knowledge  has  been  gained  of 
the  relative  digestibility  of  different  kinds  and  classes 
of  foods. 

In  general  it  may  be  said  that  probably  most  foods 
used  by  man  are  more  completely  digested  than  is  ordi- 
narily supposed,  so  that  the  bulk  of  the  intestinal  ex- 
cretion is  made  up  of  metabolic  products.  Some  foods, 
however,  contain  large  proportions  of  material  upon 
which  the  digestive  juices  cannot  so  act  as  to  make  them 
capable  of  being  absorbed.  Thus  the  outer  hull  of  the 
wheat  grain  contains  woody  substance  which  passes 
through  the  alimentary  canal  of  man  undigested,  though 
animals,  like  cows  and  sheep,  can  digest  a  large  part 
of  it. 

It  has  been  found  that  in  the  total  food  of  an  ordinary 
mixed  diet,  on  the  average,  about  92  per  cent,  of  the  pro- 
tein, 95  per  cent,  of  the  fats  and  97  per  cent,  of  the 
carbohydrates  are  retained  by  the  body.  In  the  aver- 
age proportions  in  which  the  different  animal  and  vege- 
table foods  are  combined  in  the  diet  about  97  per  cent, 
of  the  protein,  95  per  cent,  of  the  fats  and  98  per  cent, 
of  the  carbohydrates  of  the  animal  foods  are  digested, 
while  only  84  per  cent,  of  the  protein,  90  per  cent,  of 
the  fats  and  97  per  cent,  of  the  carbohydrates  of  the 
vegetable  foods  are  digested.  Animal  foods,  therefore, 
seem  to  have  a  greater  digestibility  than  vegetabl*<,  w^- 
pecially  as  regards  the  protein  they  contain.  The  di- 
gestibility of  a  given  article  of  food  depends,  of  coarse, 
upon  the  digestibility  of  the  different  classes  of  nu- 
trients and  upon  the  relative  proportion  in  which  these 
nutrients  occur.  Thus,  of  two  cereals  containing  about 
the  same  amount  of  dry  matter,  but  with  different  pro- 
portions of  protein  and  carbohydrates,  the  one  with  the 
larger  proportion  of  the  less  digestible  protein  and  the 
smaller  proportion  of  the  more  digestible  carbohydrates 
will  be,  on  the  whole,  less  completely  digested. 

The  proportions  of  the  several  nutrients  which  th« 


22  GOVERNMENT 


body  retains  for  its  use  are  commonly  called  percentages 
or  coefficients  of  digestibility. 

PREPARATION  OF  FOOD— COOKING. 

The  cooking  of  food  has  much  to  do  with  its  nutritive 
value.  Many  articles  which,  owing  to  their  mechanical 
condition  or  other  cause,  are  quite  unfit  for  nourish- 
ment when  raw  are  very  nutritious  when  cooked.  It  is 
also  a  matter  of  common  experience  that  a  well-cooked 
food  is  wholesome  and  appetizing,  while  the  same  ma- 
terial badly  cooked  is  unpalatable.  There  are  three 
chief  purposes  of  cooking.  The  first  to  change  the 
mechanical  condition  so  that  the  digestive  juices  can 
act  upon  the  food  more  freely.  Heating  often  changes 
the  structure  of  food  materials  very  materially,  so  that 
they  are  more  easily  chewed  and  more  easily  and  thor- 
oughly digested.  The  second  is  to  make  it  more  appe- 
tizing by  improving  the  appearance  or  flavor,  or  both. 
Food  which  is  attractive  to  the  taste  quickens  the  flow 
of  saliva  and  other  digestive  juices,  and  thus  digestion 
is  aided.  The  third  is  to  kill  by  heat  any  disease  germs, 
parasites,  or  other  dangerous  organisms  it  may  contain. 
This  is  often  a  very  impoi-tant  matter,  and  applies  to 
both  animal  and  vegetable  foods. 

The  cooking  of  meats  develops  the  pleasing  taste  and 
odor  of  extractives  and  that  due  to  the  browned  fat  and 
tissues  and  softens  and  loosens  the  protein  (gelatinoids) 
of  the  connective  tissues,  and  thus  makes  the  meat  more 
tender.  Extreme  heat,  however,  tends  to  coagulate  and 
harden  the  albumenoids  of  the  lean  portions,  and  also 
weakens  the  flavor  of  extractives.  If  the  heatmg  is 
carried  too  far  a  burned  or  charred  product  of  bad 
flavor  results. 

Meats  lose  weight  in  cooking.  A  small  part  of  this 
is  due  to  escape  of  meat  juices  and  fat,  but  the  chief 
part  of  the  material  lost  is  simply  water.  The  nutritive 
value  of  a  meat  soup  depends  upon  the  substances 
which  are  dissolved  out  of  the  meat,  bones  and  gristle 
by  the  water.  In  ordinary  meat  broth  these  consist 
almost  wholly  of  extractives  and  salts,  which  are  very 
agreeable  and  often  most  useful  as  stimulants,  but  have 
little  or  no  value  as  actual  nutriment,  since  they  neither 
build  tissue  nor  yield  energy.  The  principles  which 
underlie  the  cooking  of  fish  are  essentially  the  same  as 
with  meats. 

In  many  vegetables  the  valuable  carbohydrates, 
chiefly  microscopic  starch  grains,  are  contained  in  tiny 
cells  with  thick  walls  on  which  the  digestive  juices  have 
little  effect.  The  heat  of  cooking,  especially  with  the 
aid  of  water,  ruptures  these  walls  and  also  makes  the 
starch  more  soluble.  The  heat  also  caramelizes  a  por- 
tion of  the  carbohydrates  and  produces  agreeable  flavors 
in  this  and  other  ways. 

In  breads,  cakes,  pasti'y  and  other  foods  prepared 
from  flour,  the  aim  is  to  make  a  palatable  and  lighter 
porous  substance  more  easily  broken  up  in  the  alimen- 
tary canal  than  the  raw  materials  could  be.  Sometimes 
this  is  accomplished  simply  by  means  of  water  and  heat. 
The  heat  changes  part  of  the  water  in  the  dough  into 
steam,  which,  in  trying  to  escape,  forces  the  particles 
of  dough  apart.  The  protein  (gluten)  of  the  flour 
stiffens  about  the  tiny  bubbles  thus  formed  and  the  mass 
remains  porous  even  after  the  steam  has  escaped.  More 
often,  however,  other  things  are  used  to  "raise"  dough- 
such  as  yeast  and  baking  powder.  The  baking  powder 
gives  off  the  gas  carbon  dioxid  and  the  yeast  causes  fer- 
mentation in  the  dough  by  which  carbon  dioxid  is  pro- 
duced. This  acts  as  the  steam  does,  only  much  more 
powerfully.  When  beaten  eggs  are  used,  the  albumen 
incloses  air  in  bubbles  which  expand,  and  the  walls 
Stiffen  with  the  heat  and  thus  render  the  food  porous. 


COOK  BOOK. 


Scrupulous  neatness  should  always  be  observed  in 
keeping,  handling,  and  serving  food.  If  ever  cleanli- 
ness is  desirable,  it  must  be  in  the  things  we  eat,  and 
every  care  should  be  taken  to  insure  it  for  the  sake  of 
health  as  well  as  of  decency.  Cleanliness  in  this  con- 
nection means  not  only  absence  of  visible  "diii;,  but  free- 
dom from  undesirable  bacteria  and  other  minute  organ- 
isms, and  from  worms  and  other  parasites.  If  food,  raw 
or  cooked,  is  kept  in  dirty  places,  peddled  from  dirty 
carts,  prepared  in  dirty  rooms  and  in  dirty  dishes,  or 
exposed  to  foul  air,  disease  germs  and  other  offensive 
and  dangerous  substances  can  easily  get  in. 

Food  and  drink  may,  in  fact,  be  very  dangerous  pur- 
veyors of  disease.  The  bacteria  of  typhoid  fever  some- 
times find  their  way  into  drinking  water,  and  those  of 
typhoid  and  scarlet  fevers  and  diptheria  into  milk,  and 
bring  sickness  and  death  to  large  numbers  of  people. 
Oysters  which  are  taken  from  the  salt  water  where  they 
grow  and  "floated"  for  a  shoi't  time  in  brackish  water 
near  the  mouth  of  a  stream,  have  been  known  to  be  in- 
fected by  typhoid  fever  germs  brought  into  the  stream 
by  the  sewage  from  houses  where  the  dejections  from 
patients  had  been  thrown  into  the  drains.  Celery  or 
lettuce  grown  in  soil  containing  typhoid  germs  has  been 
thought  to  convey  this  disease. 

Food  materials  may  also  contain  parasites,  like  tape- 
worm in  beef,  pork  and  mutton,  and  trichinae  in 
pork,  which  are  often  injurious  and  sometimes  deadly 
in  their  effect.  This  danger  is  not  confined  to  animal 
foods.  Vegetables  and  fruits  may  become  contaminated 
with  eggs  of  numerous  parasites  from  the  fertilizers 
applied  to  them.  Raw  fruits  and  vegetables  should  al- 
ways be  very  thoroughly  washed  before  serving  if  there 
is  any  doubt  as  to  their  cleanliness.  If  the  food  is  suffi- 
ciently heated  in  cooking,  all  oi'ganisms  are  killed. 

Sometimes  food  undergoes  decomposition  in  which  in- 
jurious chemical  compounds,  so-called  ptomaines,  are 
formed.  Poisoning  by  cheese,  ice  cream,  preserved  fish, 
canned  meats,  and  the  like  has  been  caused  in  this  way. 
The  ptomaines  often  withstand  the  heat  of  cooking. 

In  some  cases  it  has  been  found  that  foods  are  adul- 
tei'ated  with  compounds  injurious  to  health;  but  sophis- 
tication in  which  harmless  articles  of  inferior  cost  or 
quality  are  added  is  more  common. 

Dainty  ways  of  serving  food  have  a  usefulness  beyond 
their  esthetic  value.  Everyone  knows  that  a  feeble 
appetite  is  often  tempted  by  a  tastefully  garnished  dish, 
when  the  same  material  carelessly  served  would  seem 
quite  unpalatable.  Furthermore,  many  cheap  articles 
and  "left-overs"  when  well  seasoned  and  attractively 
served  niay  be  just  as  appetizing  as  dearer  ones,  and 
will  usually  be  found  quite  as  nutritious. 

DIETARIES  AND  DIETARY  STANDARDS. 

The  information  gained  froni  a  study  of  the  composi- 
tion and  nutritive  value  of  foods  may  be  turned  to  prac- 
tical account  by  using  it  in  planning  diets  for  different 
individuals  or  classes  of  individuals  or  in  estimating  the 
true  nutritive  value  of  the  food  actually  consumed  by 
families  or  individuals.  By  comparing  the  results  of 
many  such  investigations  with  the  results  of  accurate 
physiological  experimenting  it  is  possible  to  learn  about 
how  much  of  each  of  the  nutrients  of  common  foods  is 
needed  by  persons  of  different  occupations  and  habits 
of  life,  and  from  this  to  compute  standards  representing 
the  average  requirements  for  food  of  such  persons. 

METHODS  OF  MAKING  DIETARY  STUDIES. 

During  the  last  twenty  years  much  of  this  practical 
application  of  the  chemistry  of  food  has  been  made  in 
the  study  of  actual  dietaries.    Much  work  of  this  kind 


GOVERNMENT 


has  been  done  in  England,  Germany,  Italy,  Russia, 
Sweden,  and  elsewhere  in  Europe,  and  in  Japan  and 
other  oriental  countries.  Within  the  past  dozen  years 
extensive  studies  have  been  made  in  the  United  States. 
The  simplest  way  of  making  such  inquiries  is  to  find 
out  what  kinds  and  quantities  of  food  are  used  during 
a  given  period  in  the  household  in  which  the  study  is 
made;  to  estimate  the  amounts  of  various  nutrients 
which  the  different  materials  contain  by  means  of  fig- 
ures (given  for  the  average  composition  of  the  vai'ious 
articles  in  tables,  and  then  to  calculate  the  cost  and 
amount  of  nutrients  for  each  person.  There  are,  how- 
ever, several  chances  for  error  in  such  a  method.  In 
the  first  place,  since  different  specimens  of  the  same 
kind  of  food  vary  greatly  in  composition,  it  is  often  in- 
accurate to  estimate  the  nutrients  of  one  specimen  from 
figures  representing  the  average  composition.  Accord- 
ingly, in  the  more  careful  dietary  studies,  the  composi- 
tion of  the  food  is  determined  by  analyzing  samples  of 
materials  actually  used.  Again,  this  method  assumes 
that  all  the  food  is  really  consumed,  whereas  it  is  very 
plain  that  frequently  no  small  portion  is  wasted  in  the 
kitchen  or  at  the  table.  This  difficulty  is  usually  met 
by  measuring  and  computing  the  amounts  of  nutrients 
in  the  waste  and  sometimes  by  analyzing  samples  of  it. 

In  preparing  the  results  of  dietary  studies  so  that 
different  studies  may  be  compared,  another  difficulty 
appears.  For  example,  in  a  family  consisting  of  father, 
mother  and  two  children  of  diffent  ages,  the  amount  of 
food  taken  by  each  is  by  no  means  the  same,  and  it 
would  be  quite  incorrect  to  divide  the  whole  amounts 
consumed  by  four  and  call  the  result  the  amount  used 
per  person.  Men,  as  a  rule,  eat  more  than  women, 
women  more  than  young  children,  and  persons  of  active 
habits  more  than  those  who  take  little  muscular  exer- 
cise. A  coal  heaver,  who  is  constantly  using  up  nutri- 
tive material  of  muscular  tissue  to  supply  the  energy 
required  for  his  sevei-e  muscular  work,  needs  a  diet  with 
more  protein  and  higher  fuel  value  than  a  bookkeeper 
who  sits  at  a  desk  all  day.  It  is  ordinarily  estimated 
that,  as  compared  with  a  man  at  moderate  or  light  work, 
a  woman  under  similar  conditions  needs  0.8  as  much 
food,  and  children  amounts  varying  with  their  ages,  and 
such  figures  are  used  to  reduce  the  statistics  of  a  dietary 
to  the  standard  of  one  man  at  moderate  work.  The  va- 
rious factors  commonly  used  in  the  United  States  in 
computing  the  results  of  dietary  studies  are  as  follows: 

Factors  used  in  calculating  meals  consumed  in  dietary 
studies. 

Man  at  hard  muscular  work  requires  1.2  the  food  of  a  man  at 
moderately  active  muscular  work, 
erately   active   muscular  work. 

Man  with  light  muscular  work  and  boy  15-16  years  old  re- 
quire 0.9  the  food  of  a  man  at  moderately  active  muscular 
work. 

Man  at  sedentary  occupation,  woman  at  moderately  active 

work,  boy  13-14,  and  girl  15-16  years  old  require  0.8  the  food 

of  a  man  at  moderately  active  muscular  work. 
Woman  at  light  work,  boy  12,  and  girl  13-1'1  years  old  require 

0.7  the  food  of  a  man  at  moderately  active  muscular  vi'ork. 
Boy  10-11  and  girl  10-12  years  old  require  0.6  the  food  of  a 

man  at  moderately  active  muscular  work. 
Child  6-9  years  old  requires  0.5  the  food  of  a  man  at  moderately 

active  muscular  work. 
Child  2-5  years  old  requires  0.4  the  food  of  a  man  at  moderately 

active  muscular  work. 
Child  under  2  years  old  requires  0.3  the  food  of  a  man  at 

moderately  active  muscular  work. 

These  factors  are  based  in  part  upon  experimental 
data  and  in  part  upon  arbitrary  assumptions.  They  are 
subject  to  revision  when  experimental  evidence  shall 
warrant  more  definite  conclusions. 

In  making  dietary  studies  in  this  country  blanks  are 
usually  prepared  to  be  filled  out  with  statistics  of  the 
amounts,  kinds,  cost  and  estimated  nutrients  of  the  food 
purchased,  wasted  and  actually  consumed,  and  informa- 


COOK    BOOK  23 


tion  concerning  the  number,  sex,  age,  and  occupation  of 
the  persons  for  whom  the  food  is  provided.  If  further 
data  are  gathered  concerning  the  health,  nationality,  in- 
come and  general  conditions  of  the  individuals  of  fam- 
ilies, the  results  of  such  inquiries  have  a  wider  physio- 
logical and  sociological  bearing.  These  supplementary 
statistics  have  been  collected  in  considerable  detail  in 
late  studies  in  the  United  States. 

AMERICAN  AND  EUROPEAN  DIETARIES  AND 
DIETARY  STANDARDS. 

Many  interesting  things  come  to  light  on  comparing 
the  dietaries  of  persons  with  different  occupations  and 
incomes  and  performing  different  amounts  of  muscular 
work.  A  comparison  of  the  dietaries  of  the  inhabitants 
of  different  countries  is  also  interesting.  Such  com- 
parisons are  made  in  the  following  table,  which  includes 
as  well  the  commonly  accepted  dietary  standards.  The 
figures  show  the  quantities  of  both  total  and  available 
nutrients.  The  fuel  value  represents  the  actual  amount 
of  available  energy,  and  may  be  computed  from  either 
the  total  of  the  digestible  nutrients  by  use  of  appropriate 
factors. 

The  dietary  standards  given  by  the  table  herewith 
are  based,  as  far  as  possible,  upon  the  results  of  observa- 
tion and  experiment,  but  are  at  best  general  estimates 
and  not  guides  to  be  blindly  followed.  They  are  subject 
to  revision  in  the  light  of  further  experimental  evidence. 
It  will  be  observed  that  the  amounts  of  energy  provided 
in  the  American  standards  are  somewhat  larger  than  in 
the  European  standards  (Voit's).  This  corresponds  to 
the  observed  fact  that  people  in  this  country,  more  espe- 
cially the  working  people,  are  as  a  rule  better  fed  and 
do  more  work  than  those  of  corresponding  classes  in 
Europe.  The  quantities  of  protein  in  these  standards 
are  larger  in  proportion  to  the  fuel  ingredients — that  is, 
the  nutritive  ratio  is  narrower — than  is  found  in  the 
average  American  diet.  In  this  respect  the  standards 
agree  more  nearly  with  the  diet  of  well-to-do  people  in 
Europe.  It  is  believed  that  the  larger  amount  of  pro- 
tein represents  rather  more  nearly  a  physiological  ration 
than  do  the  proportions  as  found  in  the  majority  of  actual 
dietaries. 

The  results  of  a  large  amount  of  experimental  investi- 
gation bear  out  the  common  belief  that  the  American, 
as  a  rule,  uses  more  food  than  the  European  of  the 
same  class.  The  character  of  the  food  is,  however,  quite 
different.  The  poor  peasants  of  Russia  and  northern 
Germany  live  chiefly  upon  rye  bread,  potatoes,  and  some 
sort  of  fat.  In  Italy  maize,  chestnuts,  and  acorn  meal 
form  an  important  item  in  the  diet  of  a  considerable 
portion  of  the  poorer  population.  The  use  of  meat 
among  the  working  population  of  most  European  and 
Asiatic  countries  is  very  much  less  than  in  America, 
because  its  cost  is  prohibitive. 

In  the  majority  of  European  dietaries  the  fats  occur 
in  relatively  smaller  and  carbohydrates  in  relatively 
larger  amounts  than  in  American  dietaries.  This  is 
probably  due  in  large  measure  to  the  smaller  quantities 
of  meats  used  in  the  former  dietaries. 

Among  the  more  scantily  nourished  peoples  of  the 
globe  are  the  poor  of  India  and  China.  They  live  large- 
ly on  rice  and  other  cereals  and  vegetables,  with  more 
or  less  of  pulse  and  other  legumes,  and  often  on  quanti- 
ties which  to  the  ordinary  American  would  seem  little 
more  than  a  starvation  diet. 

A  close  examination  of  detailed  statistics  shows  that, 
although  there  may  be  occasional  wide  variations  be- 
tween two  individuals  of  a  given  class  in  respect  to  the 
total  amounts  of  food  eaten,  yet,  on  the  whole,  through 


24 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


extended  periods,  there  are  not  unusually  large  varia- 
tions in  amounts  of  protein  or  energy  in  the  food  con- 
sumed by  different  individuals  of  the  same  class;  that 
is,  under  similar  conditions  as  regards  work  or  rest. 

MAKING  HOME  STUDIES  OF  DIETARIES. 

Any  housekeeper  who  wishes  to  know  how  the  nutri- 
tive value  of  the  food  she  provides  for  her  family  cor- 
responds with  the  dietary  standards  can  easily  make  a 
simple  dietary  study  in  her  home,  and  by  so  doing  can 


values  per  man  per  day,  the  number  of  meals  taken  by 
different  members  of  the  family  are  multiplied  by  the 
factors,  pointing  off  one  decimal  place.  The  result 
gives  the  equivalent  number  of  meals  for  a  man.  The 
equivalent  number  of  meals  taken  divided  by  3  gives  the 
equivalent  number  of  days  for  one  man.  The  total 
nutrients  for  the  whole  period,  divided  by  this  latter 
quantity,  gives  the  nutrients  per  man  per  day.  From 
these  latter  figures  the  fuel  value  of  the  diet  can  be 
computed  by  means  of  the  factors.    In  a  similar  way 


FOOD  CONSUMPTION  OF  PERSONS  IN  DIFFERENT  CIRCUMSTANCES,  AND  PROPOSED  DIETARY  STANDARDS. 

(Quantities  per  man  per  day.)   


Number  of 
studies  included 
in  averages. 

Actually  eaten. 

Digestible. 

Fuel  value. 

Nutritive  ratio. 

Protein. 

Fat. 

Carbo- 
hydrates. 

Protein. 

Fat. 

Carbo- 
hydrates. 

Gms. 

Gtms, 

Gms. 

Gms. 

Gms. 

Gms. 

Cal'rl's 

7 

155 

177  ' 

440 

143 

168 

427 

3,956 

5.C 

3 

186 

186 

651 

171 

177 

631 

6,005 

6 

2 

226 

354 

634 

208 

336 

616 

6,590 

6.6 

1 

139 

113 

677 

128 

107 

657 

4,270 

7 

5 

189 

110 

714 

174 

104 

693 

4,590 

5.3 

10 

97 

130 

467 

89 

124 

453 

3,415 

8.2 

14 

103 

150 

402 

95 

143 

390 

3,355 

7.5 

12 

101 

116 

344 

93 

110 

334 

2,810 

6.3 

2 

120 

147 

534 

110 

140 

518 

3,925 

7.6 

129 

33 

589 

119 

31 

571 

3,165 

6.4 

'6 

134 

79 

523 

123 

75 

507 

3,330 

6.5 

14 

104 

125 

423 

96 

119 

410 

3,220 

7.1 

15 

107 

148 

459 

98 

141 

445 

3,580 

7.8 

2 

131 

95 

327 

121 

90 

317 

2.680 

4.3 

1 

123 

21 

416 

113 

19 

403 

2,345 

4 

11 

112 

80 

305 

103 

296 

2,380 

4.5 

5 

127 

80 

302 

117 

]l 

293 

2,430 

4 

11 

93 

.45 

407 

86 

90 

395 

2,845 

6.9 

80 

95 

308 

74 

90 

299 

2,400 

6.8 

1 

52 

32 

287 

48 

30 

278 

1,640 

7.2 

5 

7G 

38 

396 

70 

36 

384 

2,225 

e.6 

39 

S6 

H5 

440 

79 

13S 

427 

3.395 

9  3 

4 

103 

111 

391 

95 

105 

379 

2,965 

6.5 

5 

lis 

15S 

345 

]09 

150 

335 

3,260 

6.2 

S 

115 

101 

360 

106 

96 

349 

2,800 

5.3 

1 

66 

19 

25 1 

61 

18 

246 

1,450 

4.7 

10 

137 

103 

418 

126 

98 

405 

3,135 

6 

4 

94 

71 

613 

86 

67 

595 

3,460 

8.7 

1 

115 

113 

289 

106 

107 

280 

2,620 

4.9 

1 

135 

76 

566 

124 

72 

549 

3,480 

5.7 

1 

144 

95 

640 

132 

90 

621 

3,980 

6.2 

120 

161 

454 

110 

153 

440 

3,730 

7.1 

114 

39 

480 

105 

37 

466 

2,725 

6.2 

145 

100 

450 

133 

95 

437 

3,270 

4.9 

lis 

56 

500 

109 

53 

485 

2,965 

6.5 

175 

161 

5.500 

7.2 

150 

138 

4.160 

6.2 

125 

115 

3,400 

6.2 

112 

103 

■■• 

3,050 

6.J 

1  •• 

100 

92 

2,700 

6.1 

1 

1  .. 

90 

S3 

2,450 

6.1 

PERSONS  WITH  ACTIVE  WORK. 

Rowing  clubs  in  New  England  

Bicyclists  In  New  York  

Football  teams  in  Connecticut  and  California   

Prussian  machinists   

Swedish  mechanics   

PERSONS  WITH  ORDINARY  WORK. 

Farmers'  families  in  eastern  United  States  

Mechanics'  families  in  United  States  

Laborers'  families  in  large  cities  of  United  States  

Laborers'  families  in  U.  S.  (more  comfortable  circumstances)  

Russian  peasants   

Swedish  mechanics   

PROFESSIONAL  MEN. 

Lawyers,  teachers,  etc..  In  United  States  

College  clubs  in  United  States  

German  physicians   

Japanese  professor   

MEN  WITH  LITTLE  OR  NO  EXERCISE. 

Men  (American)  In  respiration  calorimeter  

Men  (German)  in  respiration  apparatus  

PER.SONS  IN  DESTITUTE  CIRCUMSTANCES. 

Poor  families  in  New  York  City  

Laborers'  families  in  Pittsburg,  Pa  

German  laborer's  family   

Italian  mechanics   

MISCELLANEOUS. 

Negro  families  in  Alabama  and  Virginia  

Italian  families  In  Chicago   

French  Canadians  in  Chicago  

Bohemian  families  in  Chicago   

Inhabitants  Java  village,  Columbian  Exposition,  1893  

Russian  Jews  in  Chicago   

Mexican  families  in  New  Mexico  _  

Chinese  dentist  in  California   '  

Chinese  laundryman  in  California  

Chinese  farm  laborer  in  California  

United  States  Army  ration,  peace  

German  Army  ration,  peace   

DIETARY  STANDARDS. 

Man  at  hard  work  (Volt)  

Man  at  movlerate  work  (Volt)  

Mail  with  very  hard  muscular  work  (Atwater)  

Man  with  hard  muscular  work  (Atwater)  

Man  with  moderately  active  muscular  work  (Atwater)  

Man  with  light  to  moderate  muscular  work  (Atwater)  

iaan  at  sedentary  or  woman  with  moderately  active  work  (At- 
water)   

Woman  at  light  to  moderate  muscular  work,  or  man  wii 

muscular  exercise  (Atwater)  


perhaps  not  only  provide  meals  that  are  more  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  needs  of  her  family,  but  frequently 
also  save  money  by  substituting  less  expensive  but 
equally  nutritious  and  attractive  food  materials  for 
some  of  those  usually  served. 

The  simplest  way  to  make  such  a  study  is  to  weigh 
all  different  kinds  of  food  materials  in  the  house  at  a 
given  time,  say  after  supper,  recording  the  weights  in 
a  convenient  book.  All  the  food  purchased  during  the 
days  during  which  the  diet  is  being  studied  is  weighed 
and  recorded,  and  at  the  close  of  the  study,  which  may 
be.  conveniently  of  seven  or  ten  days  duration,  all  food 
materials  remaining  on  hand  are  weighed  as  before. 
From  the  quantities  of  the  different  kinds  of  food  on 
hand  at  the  beginning  and  purchased  during  the  period 
are  subtracted  the  quantities  left  on  hand  at  the  close 
of  the  study.  The  difference  represents  the  amounts 
lased.   In  order  to  expwss  the  quantities  of  nutrients  in 


the  value  of  any  menu  for  one  day  or  one  meal  may 
be  calculated.  It  is  to  be  remembered  that  in  a  short 
period,  such  as  a  day  or  two  days,  the  diet  may  fluctuate 
according  to  the  materials  used  so  as  to  give  more  of  one 
kind  of  nutrients  and  less  of  another,  or  more  or  less 
total  nutrients  than  the  average  diet,  while  in  periods 
of  a  week  or  ten  days  the  diet  is  more  likely  to  approach 
an  average. 

ADAPTING  FOOD  TO  THE  NEEDS  OF  THE  BODY. 

All  persons  are  alike  in  that  they  must  have  protein 
for  the  building  and  repair  of  the  bodily  machine  and 
fuel  ingredients  fot  warmth  and  work,  but  individuals 
differ  in  the  amounts  and  proportions  they  require,  and 
even  among  those  in  good  health  there  are  many  who 
are  obliged  to  avoid  certain  kinds  of  food,  while  in- 
valids and  people  with  weak  digestion  must  often  hava 
special  diet. 


GOVERNMENT 


For  people  in  good  health  and  with  good  digestion 
there  are  two  important  rules  to  be  observed  in  the 
regulation  of  the  diet.  The  first  is  to  choose  the  things 
which  "agree"  with  them,  and  to  avoid  those  which  they 
cannot  digest  and  assimilate  without  harm.  The  second 
is  to  use  such  kinds  and  amounts  of  food  as  will  supply 
all  the  nutrients  the  body  needs  and  at  the  same  time 
avoid  burdening  it  with  superfluous  material  to  be  dis- 
posed of  at  the  cost  of  health  and  strength. 

For  guidance  in  this  selection,  nature  provides  us 
with  instinct,  taste  and  experience.  Physiological  -chem- 
istry adds  to  these  the  knowledge — still  new  and  far 
from  adequate — of  the  composition  of  food  and  the  laws 
of  nutrition.  In  our  actual  practice  of  eating  we  are 
apt  to  be  influenced  too  much  by  taste — that  is,  by  the 
dictates  of  the  palate;  we  are  prone  to  let  natural  in- 
stinct be  overruled  by  acquired  appetite,  and  we  neglect 
the  teachings  of  experience.  We  need  to  observe  our 
diet  and  its  effects  more  carefully  and  to  regulate  ap- 
petite by  reason.  In  doing  this  we  may  be  greatly 
aided  by  the  knowledge  of  what  our  food  contains  and 
how  it  serves  its  purpose  in  nutrition. 

Though  there  may  be  differences  among  abnormal 
persons,  for  the  great  majority  of  people  in  good  health 
the  ordinary  food  materials — meats,  fish,  eggs,  milk, 
butter,  cheese,  sugar,  flour,  meal  and  potatoes  and  other 
vegetables — make  a  fitting  diet,  and  the  main  question 
is  to  use  them  in  the  kinds  and  proportion  fitted  to  the 
actual  needs  of  the  body. 

When  more  food  is  eaten  than  is  needed,  or  when 
articles  difficult  of  digestion  are  taken,  the  digestive 
organs  are  overtaxed,  if  not  positively  injured,  and 
much  energy  is  thus  wasted  which  might  have  been 
turned  to  better  account.  The  evils  of  overeating  may 
not  be  felt  at  once,  but  sooner  or  later  they  are  sure  to 
appear-: — perhaps  in  an  excessive  amount  of  fatty  tissue, 
perhaps  in  general  debility,  perhaps  in  actual  disease. 
The  injurious  effects  of  food  which  does  not  "agree" 
with  a  person  have  already  been  pointed  out. 

ADVANTAGES  OF  SEVERAL  MEALS  A  DAY. 

The  theory  is  advanced  from  time  to  time  that  one  or 
two  meals  a  day  are  preferable  to  the  three  commonly 
served  in  this  country.  If  the  same  amount  of  food  is 
to  be  eaten  it  is  hard  to  see  the  advantage  of  two  very 
hearty  meals  over  three  ordinary  ones.  The  best  physi- 
ological evidence  implies  that  moderate  quantities  of 
food  taken  at  moderate  intervals  are  more  easily  and 
completely  digested  by  ordinary  people  than  larger  quan- 
tities taken  at  long  intervals.  If  the  food  ordinarily 
taken  is  considered  excessiye  and  the  aim  is  simply  to 
reduce  the  amount,  it  would  seem  more  rational  to  make 
all  the  meals  lighter  than  to  leave  out  one.  The  very 
fact  that  the  custom  of  eating  a  number  of  meals  a  day 
has  so  long  been  almost  universal  indicates  that  it  must 
have  some  advantages  which  instinct,  based  upon  ex- 
perience, approves  and  justifies. 

PECUNIARY  ECONOMY  OF  FOOD. 

Although  the  cost  of  food  is  the  principal  item  of  the 
living  expenses  of  a  large  majority  of  t^e  people,  and 
although  the  physical  welfare  of  all  is  so  intimately 
connected  with  and  dependent  upon  diet,  very  few  of 
even  the  most  intelligent  have  any  clear  ideas  regard- 
ing the  actual  nutriment  in  the  different  food  mate- 
rials they  use.  In  too  many  cases  even  those  who  wish 
and  try  to  economize  know  very  little  as  to  the  com- 
binations which  are  best  fitted  for  their  nourishment 
and  have  still .  less  information       to  the  relation  be- 


COOK   BOOK  25 


tween  the  real  nutritive  value  of  different  foods  and 
their  cost. 

The  question  here  to  be  considered  is  this:  Of  the 
different  food  materials  which  are  palatable,  nutritiouo, 
and  otherwise  suited  for  nourishment,  what  ones  are 
pecuniarily  the  most  economical;  in  other  words,  what 
ones  furnish  the  largest  amounts  of  available  nutrients 
at  the  lowest  cost?  In  answering  this  question  it  is 
necessary  to  take  into  account  not  only  the  prices  per 
pound,  quart,  or  bushel  of  the  different  materials,  but 
also  the  kinds  and  amounts  of  the  actual  nutrients  they 
contain  and  their  fitness  to  meet  the  demands  of  the 
body  for  nourishment.  The  cheapest  food  is  that  which 
supplies  the  most  nutriment  for  the  least  money.  The 
most  economical  food  is  that  which  is  cheapest  and  at 
the  same  time  best  adapted  to  the  needs  of  the  user. 

There  are  various  ways  of  comparing  food  material! 
with  respect  to  the  relative  cheapness  or  dearness  of 
their  nutritive  ingredients.  Of  course  the  amount  of 
energy  that  would  be  obtained  in  a  quantity  of  any 
given  material  sufficient  to  furnish  a  pound  of  protein 
would  vary  with  the  amounts  of  fats  and  carbodydrates 
accompanying  the  protein;  and  on  the  other  hand,  the 
quantities  of  the  different  materials  that  would  furnish 
1,000  calories  of  energy  would  contain  different  amounts 
of  protein.  The  figures  for  cost  of  protein  leave  the 
carbohydrates  and  fats  out  of  account,  and  those  for 
energy  take  no  account  of  the  protein.  Hence  the  fig- 
ures for  either  protein  or  energy  alone  give  a  very  one- 
sided view  of  the  relation  between  nutritive  value  and 
money  cost. 

The  market  price  of  food  materials  is  not  regulated 
by  their  actual  value  for  nutriment.  For  instance,  an 
ounce  of  protein  or  fat  from  the  tenderloin  of  beef  is 
no  more  nutritious  than  that  from  a  round  or  shoulder, 
but  it  costs  considerably  more.  The  agreeableness  of 
food  to  the  palate  or  to  the  buyer's  fancy  has  much  to 
do  in  deciding  current  demand  and  consequent  selling 
price.  It  may  be  said,  however,  that  animal  foods  have 
some  advantage  over  vegetable  foods.  Animal  foods, 
such  as  meats,  fish,  milk,  and  the  like  gratify  the  palate 
as  many  vegetable  foods  do  not.  Furthermore,  what  is 
of  still  greater  weight  in  regulating  the  food  habits  of 
communities  by  whose  demand  the  prices  are  determined, 
they  satisfy  an  actual  need  by  supplying  protein  and 
fats  in  which  the  vegetable  foods,  except  cereal  grains 
and  leguminous  seeds,  are  largely  lacking.  Moreover,  as 
has  previously  been  explained,  the  animal  foods  are  in 
general  more  easily  and  completely  digested  than  are  the 
vegetable,  especially  as  regards  protein.  Thus  there  is 
doubtless  good  ground  for  paying  somewhat  more  for 
the  same  total  quantity  of  nutritive  material  in  the  ani- 
mal food. 

One  point  to  be  especially  noted  here  is  the  difference 
in  the  cost  of  nutrients  in  foods  already  prepared  for 
use  and  in  the  same  materials  not  so  prepared.  For 
instance,  wheat  made  into  ordinary  prepared  breakfast 
cereal  might  contain  no  more  available  protein  or  energy 
than  the  same  wheat  made  into  white  or  graham  flour, 
but  the  breakfast  cereals  cost  more  than  the  flour  per 
pound.  At  the  same  time,  the  breakfast  foods  afford  a 
pleasing  variety  in  the  diet,  and  often  require  little  or 
no  cooking  and  are,  therefore,  very  convenient;  while 
the  flour  must  be  made  into  bread  or  other  food  at  more 
expense  of  labor,  fupl,  etc.  If  the  breakfast  cereal  does 
not  cost  much  more  than  the  flour  the  difference  may 
be  offset  by  the  convenience  of  preparation  for  the 
table,  the  palatability,  and  the  pleasing  variety  it  gives. 

Many  of  the  breakfast  foods  arc  advertised  as  having 
an  especially  high  nutritive  value.    If  the  statements 


26  GOVERNMENT 


often  made  in  advertising  these  could  be  believed  they 
V70uld  have  some  nutritive  property  not  found  in  flours 
and  meals  ground  from  the  same  grains.  For  these 
claims  there  is  no  ground.  The  breakfast  foods  made 
from  wheat,  corn,  oats,  and  other  cereals,  contain  no 
nutritive  material  other  than  that  which  is  in  the  orig- 
inal, and  which  is  also  found  in  the  ordinary  flours  and 
meals  made  from  the  same  grains;  and  when  the  two 
kinds  of  food  are  equally  well  cooked  there  is  no  ex- 
perimental evidence  to  show  any  difference  in  the  thor- 
oughness of  digestibility.  The  retail  prices  of  the  break- 
fast foods  are  from  two  to  five  times  as  large  as  those 
of  the  ordinary  products,  like  flour  and  meal.  The  ad- 
vertisements, which  often  claim  nutritive  values  that 
are  fictitious,  do  not  give  any  suggestion  of  the  high 
price  of  the  nutrients  in  the  prepared  foods  as  compared 
with  that  of  the  same  amounts  in  the  ordinary  products, 
nor  do  purchasers  generally  realize  how  expensive  these 
prepared  foods  are. 

ERRORS  IN  FOOD  ECONOMY. 

•  Scientific,  research,  interpreting  4he  observations  of 
practical  life,  indicates  that  a  fourfold  mistake  in  food 
economy  is  very  commonly  made.  First,  the  costlier 
kinds  of  food  are  used  when  the  less  expensive  are  just 
as  nutritious  and  can  be  made  nearly  or  quite  as  palata- 
ble. Secondly,  the  diet  is  apt  to  be  one-sided,  in  that 
^oods  are  used  which  furnish  relatively  too  much  of  the 
fuel  ingredients  and  too  little  of  the  flesh-forming  ma- 
terials. Thirdly,  excessive  quantities  of  food  are  used; 
part  of  the  excess  is  eaten  and  often  to  the  detriment  of 
health;  part  is  thrown  away  in  the  table  and  kitchen 
"wastes.  Finally,  serious  errors  in  cooking  are  com- 
mitted. 

For  the  well-to-do  the  worst  injury  is  that  to  health; 
but  people  of  small  incomes  suffer  the  additional  dis- 
advantage of  the  injury  to  purse.  Indeed,  to  one  who 
looks  into  the  matter  it  is  surprising  to  see  how  much 
people  of  limited  incomes  lose  in  these  ways.  It  is  the 
poor  man's  money  that  is  most  injudiciously  spent  in  the 
market  and  the  poor  man's  food  that  is  most  badly 
cooked  at  home. 

NEEDLESS  USE  OF  EXPENSIVE  FOODS. 

A  common  mistake  in  purchasing  food  is  in  buying 
the  more  expensive  kinds  when  cheaper  ones  would  serve 
the  purpose  just  as  well.  This  is  often  done  under  the 
impression  that  there  is  some  peculiar  virtue  in  the 
costlier  materials  and  that  economy  in  the  diet  is  detri- 
p.iental  to  dignity  and  welfare.  Unfortunately  it  is  too 
Oit«n  the  case  that  those  who  are  most  extravagant  in 
this  respect  are  the  ones  who  can  least  afford  it.  On 
the  other  hand,  there  is  frequently  a  desire  to  economize, 
but  a  lack  of  knowledge  of  the  best  method  of  doing  so. 
Many  a  housekeeper  who  sincerely  tries  to  do  the  best 
for  those  to  be  provided  for,  but  whose  every  cent  must 
tell,  buys  eggs  at  25  a  dozen,  or  sirloin  steak  at  20  cents 
a  pound,  when,  for  the  same  amount  of  money,  it  would 
be  possible  to  get  twice  as  much  nourishment  from  a 
cheap  cut  of  meat,  which,  with  a  little  skill  in  prepara- 
tion and  cooking,  could  be  made  into  a  tasty  dish  such 
as  persons  in  far  easier  circumstances  would  not  hesi- 
tate to  set  upon  their  tables. 

The  difficulty  is  the  ignorance  of  the  simple  princi- 
ples of  nutrition.  That  ignorance  results  in  a  great 
waste  of  money.  The  maxim  "that  the  best  is  the  cheap- 
est," as  popularly  understood  to  apply  to  the  higher- 
priced  materials,  is  not  true  of  food.  The  larger  part 
of  the  price  of  the  costlier, foods  is  paid  for  appearance, 
flavor,  or  rarity.    While  the  dearer  articles  are  often 


COOK  BOOK 


more  pleasing  to  the  palate,  and  are  sometimes  more 
easily  cooked  or  possess  a  finer  flavor,  they  are  no  more 
digestible  nor  nutritious  than  the  cheaper  ones.  People 
who  can  afford  them  may  be  justified  in  buying  them, 
but  for  persons  in  good  health  and  with  limited  means 
they  are  not  economical,  and  often  increase  the  cost  of 
food  out  of  all  proportion  to  nutrients  furnished. 

In  the  course  of  some  dietary  studies  made  in  one  of 
the  poorer  districts  of  Chicago  it  was  found  that  a 
woman,  whose  husband  was  out  of  work  and  whose 
family  was  living  on  a  few  cents  a  day,  bought  lettuce, 
an  article  so  innutritious  that,  at  least  when  out  of  sea- 
son and  high  in  price,  it  is  a  luxury  even  for  the  rich, 
while  she  had  to  do  without  nutritious  food.  No  one 
can  object  to  the  use  of  lettuce,  or  any  other  wholesome 
food,  when  the  purse  allows,  but  it  is  pitifully  bad  econ- 
omy in  such  cases  to  buy  foods  which  simply  please  the 
palate  while  the  body  goes  without  proper  nourishment. 

The  plain,  substantial,  standard  food  materials,  like 
the  cheaper  cuts  of  meat  and  fish,  milk,  flour,  cornmeal, 
oatmeal,  beans,  and  potatoes,  are  as  digestible  and  nutri- 
tious and  as  well  fitted  for  the  nourishment  of  people  in 
good  health  as  are  any  of  the  costlier  materials. 

We  endeavor  to  make  our  diet  suit  our  palate  by  pay- 
ing high  prices  in  the  market  rather  than  by  skillful 
cooking  and  tasteful  serving  at  home.  The  remedy  for 
this  evil  will  be  found  in  an  understanding  of  the  elemen- 
tary facts  regarding  food  and  nutrition,  in  a  better 
knowledge  of  cooking  and  serving  food,  and  in  the  ac- 
ceptance of  the  doctrine  that  economy  is  not  only  re- 
spectable but  honorable. 

The  soup  kitchens  which  have  been  established  in  many 
cities,  where  meals  planned  according  to  accepted  die- 
tary standards  are  sold  at  very  low  and  yet  profitable 
rates,  should  furnish  their  patrons  with  object  lessons 
on  the  food-purchasing  power  of  money. 

DANGER  OF  A  ONE-SIDED  DIET. 

Unless  care  is  exercised  in  selecting  food  a  diet  may 
result  which  is  one-sided  or  badly  balanced — that  is,  one 
in  which  either  protein  or  fuel  ingredients  are  provided 
in  excess.  If  a  person  consumes  lai'ge  amounts  of  meat 
and  little  vegetable  food,  the  diet  will  be  too  rich  in 
protein  and  may  be  harmful.  On  the  other  hand,  if 
pastry,  butter,  and  such  foods  are  eaten  in  preference 
to  a  more  varied  diet,  the  food  will  furnish  too  much 
energy  and  too  little  building  material. 

Extreme  illustrations  of  such  a  one-sided  diet  are 
found  in  the  food  of  those  persons  who  live  largely  on 
bread  and  tea,  or  others  who  live  on  cornmeal,  fat  pork, 
and  molasses.  The  "hog  and  hominy"  diet  supplies  lib- 
eral quantities  of  energy,  but  is  very  deficient  in  pro- 
tein, as  illustrated  by  the  diet  of  negroes  in  the  "black 
belt,"  with  62  grams  of  protein  and  3,270  calories  of 
energy  per  man  per  day. 

In  this  connection  it  should  be  said  that  most  of  our 
dietary  standards  have  been  deduced  from  food  investi- 
gations conducted  with  persons  living  in  temperate 
climates.  It  is  not  improbable  that  those  living  in  Arctic 
regions  and  in  the  Tropics  require  nutrients  in  different 
proportions.  It  is  a  matter  of  common  observation  that 
in  Arctic  regions  much  larger  amounts  of  energy-yield- 
ing material,  principally  fat,  are  consumed  than  in 
warmer  climates.  Less  definite  information  is  available 
regarding  the  food  requirements  in  the  Tropics;  but  it 
seems  probable  that  when  proper  dietary  conditions  are 
followed  somewhat  less  food  is  consumed  than  in  tem- 
perate regions,  and  that  the  nutrients  are  in  somewhat 
different  proportion.  It  is  certain  that  a  diet  which 
would  be  entirely  satisfactory  in  frigid  regions  would 


GOVERNMENT 


be  one-sided  in  the  Tropics,  and  vice  versa.  This  sub- 
ject is  one  which  needs  further  investigation  before 
definite  conclusions  can  be  drawn  regarding  the  foods 
best  fitted  for  extremes  of  heat  or  cold. 

WASTE  OF  FOOD. 

The  use  of  excessive  quantities  of  food,  which  is  a 
common  dietary  error  in  this  country,  among  not  only 
the  well  to  do  but  also  those  in  moderate  circumstances, 
entails  a  waste  of  food  in  at  least  three  ways: 

First.  More  food  is  eaten  than  can  be  properly  util- 
ized by  the  body.  This  is  not  universally  true,  for  there 
are  some  people  who  do  not  eat  enough  for  healthful 
nourishment.  But  the  eating  habits  of  large  numbers 
are  vicious,  resulting  not  only  in  a  loss  of  food  material 
but  in  an  increase  in  the  labor  of  digestion,  to  say  noth- 
ing" of  the  injurious  effects  which  overeating  may  have 
upon  the  bodily  organs  and  functions  and  upon  health 
in  general.  Probably  the  worst  sufferers  from  this  evil 
are  well-to-do  people  of  sedentary  occupations — brain 
workers  as  distinguished  from  hand  workers. 

Second.  More  food  is  served  than  can  be  eaten,  and 
the  excess  is  thrown  away  as  table  waste.  Indeed,  in 
many  families  in  this  country  it  is  a  matter  of  pride  to 
furnish  more  than  is  needed,  a  feeling  which  appears 
quite  unreasonable  to  frugal  Europeans,  even  those  in 
equally  comfortable  circumstances. 

Third.  The  third  form  is  that  which  occurs  in  the 
preparation  of  food  materials  for  consumption.  Thus,  in 
removing  the  inedible  material,  as  skin,  seeds,  etc.,  from 
fruits  and  vegetables,  more  or  less  of  the  edible  portion 
is  removed  also,  depending  upon  the  care  with  which 
the  work  is  done.  The  greatest  loss  from  a  pecuniary 
standpoint,  however,  is  in  the  waste  of  animal  foods  in 
which  the  nutrients  are  in  their  costliest  forms.  The 
"trimmings"  of  meat  which  are  left  with  the  butcher  or 
removed  in  the  kitchen  frequently  contain  one-eighth  of 
the  nutritive  ingredients  of  the  material  paid  for.  Part 
of  such  waste  is  inevitable,  but  much  of  the  valuable 
nutrients  might  be  saved  if  the  materials  were  used  for 
making  soup.  The  more  economical  cuts  of  meats  are 
those  in  which  there  is  less  waste  of  this  kind;  in  such 
cuts  of  meat  as  loin  of  beef,  rib  chops  of  lamb,  and  sim- 
ilar cuts,  one-fifth  the  cost  goes  to  pay  for  bone.  Such 
cuts,  therefore,  should  be  avoided  by  those  who  wish  to 
get  the  most  actual  nutriment  for  their  money. 

Just  where  and  among  what  classes  of  people  the 
waste  of  food  is  greatest  it  is  not  possible  to  say,  but 
thei'e  is  certainly  a  great  deal  more  of  it  in  this  country 
than  in  Europe.  The  worst  sufferers  from  it  are  doubt- 
less the  poor,  but  the  large  body  of  people  of  moderate 
means,  the  intelligent,  and  fairly  well-to-do  wage-work- 
ers are  guilty  of  errors  in  this  regard.  The  common 
remark  that  "the  average  American  family  wastes  as 
much  food  as  a  French  family  would  live  upon"  is  great- 
ly exaggerated,  but  statistics  show  that  there  is  con- 
siderable truth  in  it.  In  dietary  stvidies  conducted  at  a 
students  club  in  an  Eastern  college  it  was  found  that 
10  to  14  per  cent,  of  the  nutritive  materials  purchased 
were  thrown  away  as  kitchen  or  table  waste,  and  yet 
the  club  members  were  trying  to  live  as  economically  as 
was  consistent  with  comfort.  In  private  families  the 
waste  has  been  found  to  range  from  practically  none 
to  as  high  as  8  or  10  per  cent.,  while  in  boarding  houses, 
even  where  economy  was  sought,  it  has  reached  10,  and 
individual  instances  20  per  cent.;  and  in  some  public  in- 
stitutions where  large  numbers  were  fed  it  has  been  as 
high  as  25  per  cent,  and  even  higher.  , 


COOK    BOOK  27 


ERRORS  IN  COOKING. 

It  is  commonly  remarked  by  those  who  study  the  con- 
ditions of  living  of  people  of  limited  means  in  diffei-ent 
parts  of  the  country  that  for  substantial  improvement 
of  their  household  economies  two  things  are  needed. 
They  must  be  informed  as  to  the  high  nutritive  value  of 
the  cheaper  foods  as  compared  with  the  costlier  kinds, 
and  the  methods  of  cooking  must  be  improved.  A  great 
deal  of  fuel  is  wasted  in  the  preparation  of  food,  and 
even  then  a  great  deal  of  the  food  is  badly  cooked.  To  re- 
place dear  food  badly  cooked  by  cheaper  food  well  cooked 
is  important  for  both  health  and  purse.  To  make  the 
table  more  attractive  will  be  an  efficient  means  for 
making  the  home  life  more  enjoyable. 

SUMMARY. 

Food  has  been  briefly  defined  as  "that  which  taken 
into  the  body,  either  builds  tissue  or  yields  energy."  In 
its  building  function  protein  is  the  most  important  in- 
gredient of  food,  as  it  is  the  basis  of  muscle,  bone,  and 
almost  all  the  tissues  and  fluids  of  the  body.  Mineral 
matters  are  also  needed  in  the  body  structure,  though 
in  smaller  quantities.  Protein,  fats,  and  carbohydrates 
may  any  of  them  be  burned  in  the  body  to  produce  heat 
or  muscular  energy,  but  for  protein  this  is  a  less  im- 
portant and  probably  less  usual  function.  The  fats  and 
carbohydrates,  by  being  themselves  used  as  fuel,  leave 
the  protein  for  its  indispensable  work  of  tissue  forming. 

Not  only  the  amounts  of  nutritive  ingi-edients  which 
a  food  contains,  but  also  the  proportions  which  can  be 
digested  and  utilized  by  the  body,  determine  the  real 
nutritive  value  of  a  food  material.  As  a  general  rule, 
carbohydrates  are  more  completely  digested  and  hence 
m.ore  fully  available  for  use  in  the  body  than  protein 
and  fats,  and  protein  of  animal  foods,  as  meat,  fish,  milk 
and  eggs,  is  more  digestible  than  that  of  vegetable  foods. 
Fats  are  probably  less  digestible  than  most  forms  of 
protein  and  carbohydrates. 

In  ordinary  mixed  diet  the  chief  sources  of  protein 
are  meat,  fish,  arid  milk  among  animal  foods,  and  the 
cereals  and  legumes  among  vegetable  foods.  Beans,  peas 
and  oatmeal  are  rich  in  protein  and  hence  especially 
valuable  food.  About  nine-tenths  of  the  fat  in  the  or- 
dinary diet  is  obtained  from  the  animal  foods,  while  the 
vegetable  foods  furnish  approximately  nine-tenths  of 
the  carbohydrates. 

Other  things  being  equal,  foods  furnishing  nutrients 
which  can  be  most  easily  and  completely  utilized  by  the 
body  are  the  most  desirable,  since  they  will  not  bring 
unnecessary  exertion  to  the  various  organs.  Many  kinds 
of  food  which  in  their  natural  state  hold  the  most  valu- 
able nutrients  in  such  form  that  the  digestive  juices  can- 
not easily  work  upon  them  are  so  changed  by  the  heat 
of  cooking  that  they  become  easily  digestible.  Thus  the 
importance  of  proper  cooking  can  hardly  be  overesw- 
mated.  Things  which  please  the  palate  stimulate  the 
flow  of  the  digestive  juices;  for  this  reason  food  should 
be  made  appetizing.  An  attractive  diet  pleases  the  esthetic 
sense;  hence  refinement  in  food  habits  is  as  desirable 
as  in  other  phases  of  our  daily  life.  The  sense  of  com- 
fort and  satisfaction  produced  by  even  the  appearance 
of  food  well  cooked  and  served  is  of  indisputable  value. 
Fortunately  such  satisfaction  is  within  the  reach  of  al- 
most all. 

Among  people  who  have  the  benefits  of  modern  com- 
fort and  culture  the  palate  revolts  against  a  very  simple 
and  unvaried  diet,  and  for  this  reason  the  nutrients  are 
usually  supplied  from  a  variety  of  articles — some  of  anl- 


28 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


mal,  some  of  vegetable  origin.  With  a  varied  diet  it  is 
also  easier  to  secure  the  proper  proportions  of  protein 
to  fats  and  carbohydrates. 

As  the  habits  and  conditions  of  individuals  differ,  so, 
too,  their  needs  for  nourishment  differ,  and  their  food 
should  be  adapted  to  their  particular  requirements.  It 
has  been  estimated  that  an  average  man  at  moderately 
active  labor,  like  a  carpenter  or  mason,  should  have 
about  115  grams  or  0.25  pound  of  available  protein  and 
sufficient  fuel  ingredients  in  addition  to  make  the  fuel 
value  of  the  whole  diet  3,400  calories,  while  a  man  at 
sedentary  employment  would  be  well  nourished  with  92 
grams  or  0.20  pound  of  available  protein  and  enough 
fats  and  carbohydrates  in  addition  to  yield  2,700  calories 
of  energy.  The  demands  are,  however,  variable,  increas- 
ing or  decreasing  with  increase  or  decrease  of  muscular 
work,  or  as  other  needs  of  the  person  change.  Each 
person,  too,  should  learn  by  experience  what  kinds  of 
food  yield  him  nourishment  with  the  least  discomfort, 
and  should  avoid  those  which  do  not  "agree"  with  him. 

Too  much  food  is  as  bad  as  too  little  and  occasions  a 
waste  of  energy  and  strength  in  the  body  as  well  as  a 


waste  of  nutritive  material.  While  in  the  case  of  some 
foods  as  purchased,  notably  meats,  some  waste  is  un- 
avoidable, the  pecuniary  loss  can  be  diminished,  both  by 
buying  those  kinds  in  which  there  is  the  least  waste,  and 
by  utilizing  more  carefully  than  is  ordinarily  done  por- 
tions of  what  is  usually  classed  as  refuse.  Much  of  the 
waste  may  be  avoided  by  careful  planning  so  as  to  pro- 
vide a  comfortable  and  appetizing  meal  in  sufficient 
amount,  but  without  excess.  If  strict  economy  is  neces- 
sary, the  dearer  cuts  of  meat  and  the  more  expensive 
fruits  and  vegetables  should  be  avoided.  With  reason- 
able care  in  cooking  and  serving,  a  pleasing  and  varied 
diet  can  be  furnished  at  moderate  cost.  It  should  not 
be  forgotten  that  the  real  cheapness  or  deamess  of  a 
food  material  depends  not  only  on  its  market  price,  but 
also  on  the  cost  of  its  digestible  nutrients.  It  should 
always  be  remembered  that  "the  ideal  diet  is  that  com- 
bination of  foods  which,  while  imposing  the  least  burden 
on  the  body,  supplies  it  with  exactly  sufficient  material 
to  meet  its  wants,"  and  that  any  disregard  of  such  a 
standard  must  inevitably  prevent  the  best  development 
of  our  powers. 


ECONOMICAL 

UTILIZING  THE  FAT,  BONE  AND  TRIMMINGS  IN 
MEATS  AND  THE  LEFT-OVER  COLD  MEATS. 

In  the  percentage  of  fat  present  in  different  kinds 
and  cuts  of  meat,  a  greater  difference  exists  than  in  the 
percentage  of  proteids.  The  lowest  percentage  of  fat 
shown  in  the  table  on  page  14  was  8.1  per  cent,  in  the 
shank  of  beef;  the  highest  was  32  per  cent,  in  the  pork 
chops.  The  highest  priced  cuts,  loin  and  ribs  of  beef 
contain  20  to  25  per  cent.  If  the  fat  of  the  meat  is 
not  eaten  at  the  table,  and  is  not  utilized  otherwise,  a 
pecuniary  loss  results.  If  butter  is  the  fat  used  in 
making  crusts  for  meat  pies,  and  in  preparing  the 
cheaper  cuts,  there  is  little  economy  involved;  the  fats 
from  other  meat  should  therefore  be  saved,  as  they  may 
be  used  in  place  of  butter  in  such  cases,  as  well  as  in 
preparing  many  other  foods.  The  fat  from  sausage  or 
from  the  soup  kettle,  or  from  a  pot  roast,  which  is 
savory  because  it  has  been  cooked  with  vegetables,  is 
particularly  acceptable.  Sometimes  savory  vegetables, 
onion,  or  sweet  herbs  are  added  to  fat  when  it  is  tried 
out  to  give  it  flavor. 

Some  illustrations  of  methods  of  preparing  such  cook- 
ing fats  follow: 

TRYING  OUT  FAT. 

A  double  boiler  is  the  best  utensil  to  use  in  trying  out  small  por- 
tions of  fat.  There  is  no  danger  of  burning  the  fat  and  the  odor  is 
much  less  noticeable  than  if  it  is  heated  in  a  dish  set  directly  over 
the  fire. 

CLARIFYING  FAT. 

Excepting  where  the  purpose  of  clarifying  fat  is  to  remove  flavors, 
a  good  method  to  follow  is  to  pour  boiling  water  over  the  fat,  to 
boil  thoroughly,  and  then  to  set  it  away  to  cool.  The  cold  fat  may 
be  removed  in  a  solid  cake  and  any  impurities  clinging  to  it  may  bs 
scraped  off,  as  they  will  be  found  at  the  bottom  of  the  layer.  By 
repeating  this  process  two  or  three  times  a  cake  of  clean,  white  fat 
may  be  obtained. 

A  slight  burned  taste  or  similar  objectionable  flavor*  often  can  be 


USE  OF  MEAT 

removed  from  fat  by  means  of  potatoes.  After  mehing  the  fat,  put 
into  it  thick  slices  of  raw  potato;  heat  gradually.  When  the  fat 
ceases  to  bubble  and  the  potatoes  are  brown,  strain  through  a  cloth 
placed  in  a  wire  strainer. 

SAVORY  DRIPPINGS. 

When  rendering  the  drippings  of  fat  meat,  add  a  small  onion  (do 
not  cut  it),  a  few  leaves  of  summer  savory  and  thyme,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper.  This  is  enough  for  a  pint  of  fat. 
Keep  the  drippings  covered  and  in  a  cool  place. 

USES  FOR  BONES. 

Almost  any  meat  bones  can  be  used  in  soup  making, 
and  if  the  meat  is  not  all  removed  from  them  the  soup 
is  better.  But  some  bones,  especially  the  rib  bones,  if 
,  they  have  have  a  little  meat  left  on  them,  can  be  grilled 
or  roasted  into  veiy  palatable  dishes.  The  "sparerib" 
of  Southern  cooks  is  made  of  the  rib  bones  from  a  roast 
of  pork,  and  makes  a  favorite  dish  when  well  browned. 
The  braised  ribs  of  beef  often  served  in  high-class  res- 
taurants are  made  from  the  bones  cut  from  rib  roasts. 
In  this  connection  it  may  be  noted  that  many  of  the  dishes 
popular  in  good  hotels  are  made  of  portions  of  meat 
such  as  are  frequently  thrown  away  in  private  houses, 
but  which,  with  proper  cooking  and  seasoning,  make 
attractive  dishes  and  give  most  acceptable  variety  to 
the  menu.  An  old  recipe  for  "broiled  bones"  directs 
that  the  bones  (beef  ribs  or  sirloin  bones  on  which  the 
meat  is  not  left  too  thick  in  any  part)  be  sprinkled  with 
salt  and  pepper  (Cayenne),  and  broiled  over  a  clear  fire 
until  browned.  Another  example  of  the  use  of  bones  is 
boiled  marrow  bone.  The  bones  are  cut  in  convenient 
lengths,  the  ends  covered  with  a  little  piece  of  dough 
over  which  a  floured  cloth  is  tied,  and  cooked  in  boiling 
water  for  two  hours.  After  removing  the  cloth  and 
dough,  the  bones  are  placed  upright  on  toast  and  served. 
Prepared  as  above,  the  bones  may  also  be  baked  in  a 
deep  dish.  Marrow  is  sometimes  removed  from  bones 
aftex-  cooking,  seasoned  and  served  on  toast. 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


29 


Trimmings  from  meat  may  be  utilized  in  various 
"made  dishes"  of  which  examples  •will  be  given  farther 
on,  or  they  can  always  be  put  to  good  use  in  the  soup 
kettle.  It  is  surprising  how  many  economies  may  be 
practiced  in  such  ways  and  also  in  the  table  use  of  left- 
over portions  of  cooked  meat  if  attention  is  given  to  the 
matter.  Many  of  the  recipes  given  in  this  bulletin  in- 
volve the  use  of  such  left-overs.  Others  will  suggest 
themselves  or  may  be  found  in  all  the  usual  cookery 
books. 

METHODS  OF  EXTENDING  THE  FLAVOR  OF  MEAT. 

Common  household  methods  of  extending  the  meat 
flavor  through  a  considerable  quantity  of  material  which 
would  otherwise  be  lacking  in  distinctive  taste  are  to 
serve  the  meat  with  dumplings,  generally  in  the  dish 
with  it,  to  combine  the  meat  with  crusts,  as  in  meat  pies 
or  meat  rolls,  or  to  serve  the  meat  on  toast  and  biscuits. 
Borders  of  rice,  hominy,  or  mashed  potatoes  are  ex- 
amples of  the  same  principles  applied  in  different  ways. 
By  serving  some  preparation  of  flour,  rice,  hominy,  or 
other  food  rich  in  starch  with  the  meat  we  get  a  dish 
which  in  itself  approaches  nearer  to  the  balanced  ration 
than  meat  alone  and  one  in  which  the  meat  flavor  is  ex- 
tended through  a  large  amount  of  the  material. 

Throughout  the  bulletin  the  measurements  given  in 
the  recipes  call  for  a  level  spoonful  or  a  level  cupful,  as 
the  case  may  be. 

USE  OF  DUMPLINGS  AND  SIMILAR  PREPARATIONS. 

A  number  of  recipes  for  meat  dishes  made  vnth  dump- 
lings and  similar  preparations  follow: 

MEAT  STEW  WITH  DUMPLINGS. 

STEW. 

5  pounds  of  a  cheaper  cut  of  beef.  2-3  cups  each  of  turnips  and  car- 
4  cups  of  potatoes  cut  into  small      rots  cut  into  ^-inch  cubes. 

pieces.  %  cup  of  flour. 

%  onion,  chopped.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  removing  the  fat;  try  out  the  fat 
and  brown  the  meat  in  it  When  well  browned,  cover  with  boiling 
water;  boil  for  five  minutes  and  then  cook  in  a  lower  temperature 
until  the  meat  is  done.  If  tender,  this  will  require  about  three  hours 
on  the  stove  or  five  hours  in  the  fireless  cooker.  Add  carrots,  tur- 
nips, onions,  pepper  and  salt  during  the  Izist  hour  of  cooking,  and 
the  potatoes  fifteen  minutes  before  serving.  Thicken  with  the  flour 
diluted  with  cold  water.  Serve  with  dumplings  (see  below).  If  this 
dish  is  made  in  the  fireless  cooker,  the  mixture  must  be  reheated 
when  the  vegetables  are  put  in.  Such  a  stew  may  also  be  made  of 
mutton.  If  veal  or  pork  is  used  the  vegetables  may  be  omitted  or 
dmply  a  little  onion  used.  Sometimes  for  variety  the  browning  of 
the  meat  is  dispensed  with.  W^en  white  meat,  such  as  chicken,  veal 
or  fresh  pork  is  used,  the  gravy  is  often  made  rich  with  cream  or 
milk  thickened  with  flour.  The  numerous  minor  additions  which 
may  be  introduced  give  the  great  variety  of  such  stews  found  in 
cook  books. 

DUMPLINGS. 

2  cups  flour.  2-3  cup  milk  or  a  little  more  if 

4  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  needed. 

2  teaspoonfuls  butter.  Vz  teaspoonful  saft. 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Work  in  the  butter  with  the  tips 
of  finger*,  add  milk  gradually,  roll  out  to  a  thickness  of  one-half 
inch  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  In  some  countries  it  is  customary 
to  season  the  dumplings  themselves  with  herbs,  etc.,  or  to  stuff  them 
with  bread  crumbs  fried  in  butter  instead  of  depending  upon  the 
gravy  to  season  them. 

A  good  way  to  cook  dumplings  is  to  put  them  in  a  buttered 
•ieamer  over  a  kettle  of  hot  water.   Thej  should  cook  from  twelve 


to  fifteen  minutes.  If  it  is  necessary  to  cook  them  with  the  stew, 
enough  liquid  should  be  removed  so  that  they  may  be  placed  upon 
the  meat  and  vegetables. 

Sometime*  the  dough  is  baked  and  served  as  biscuits  over  which 
the  stew  is  poured.  If  the  stew  is  made  with  chicken  or  veal  it  it 
generally  termed  a  fricasse. 

RAGOUT  OF  MUTTON  WITH  FARINA  BALLS. 

1  V2  pounds  neck  of  mutton,  cut  2  cups  hot  water. 

into  small  pieces.  I  teaspoonful  salt. 

I  tablespoonful  butler.  ^^  teaspoonful  pepper. 

I  tablespoonful  flour.  I  bay  leaf. 

I  onion.  Sprig  parsley. 

I  carrot.  I  clove. 

%  can  peas. 

,    FARINA  BALLS. 
%  cup  farina.  %  teaspoonful  pepper. 

I  cup  of  milk.  Onion  juice. 

%  teaspoonful  salt.  Yolk  1  egg. 

Put  butter  in  frying  pan.  When  melted  add  flour  and  brown. 
Add  carrot  and  onion,  cut  in  dice.  Remove  vegetables  and  add 
meat,  searing  well.  To  meat  and  vegetables  add  hot  water  and  sea- 
sonings. Put  in  a  suitable  kettle,  cover  and  simmer  two  hoiirs:  Add 
peas  ten  minutes  before  serving  in  a  dish  \v<ith  farina  balls  made  as 
follows: 

Cook  farina  and  milk  in  double  boiler  one  hour.  Add  seasoning 
and  well-beaten  yolk.  Stir  well  and  cool.  When  cold  roll  into  balls. 
Dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Rice  may  be  used  in 
a  similar  way. 

MEAT  PIES  AND  SIMILAR  DISHES. 

Meat  pies  represent  another  method  of  combining 
flour  with  meat.  They  are  ordinarily  baked  in  a  fairly 
deep  dish  the  sides  of  which  may  or  may  not  be  lifted 
with  dough.  The  cooked  meat,  cut  into  small  pieces, 
is  put  into  the  dish,  sometimes  with  small  pieces  of 
vegetables,  a  gravy  is  poured  over  the  meat,  the  dish 
is  covered  with  a  layer  of  dough,  and  then  baked.  Most 
commonly  the  dough  is  like  that  used  for  soda  or  cream- 
of-tartar  biscuit,  but  sometimes  shortened  pastry  dough, 
such  as  is  made  for  pies,  is  used.  This  is  especially  the 
case  in  the  fancy  individual  dishes  usually  called  pat- 
ties. Occasionally  the  pie  is  covered  with  a  potato 
crust  in  which  case  the  meat  is  put  directly  into  the 
dish  without  lining  the  latter.  Stewed  beef,  veal  and 
chicken  are  probably  most  frequently  used  in  pies,  but 
any  kind  of  meat  may  be  used,  or  several  kinds  in  com- 
bination. Pork  pies  are  favorite  dishes  in  many  rural 
regions,  especially  at  hog-killing  time,  and  when  well 
made  are  excellent. 

If  pies  are  made  from  raw  meat  and  vegetables  longer 
cooking  is  needed  than  otherwise,  and  in  such  cases  it 
is  well  to  cover  the  dish  with  a  plate,  cook  until  the 
pie  is  nearly  done,  then  remove  the  plate,  add  the  crust, 
and  return  to  the  oven  until  the  crust  is  lightly  browned. 
Many  cooks  insist  on  piercing  holes  in  the  top  crust  of 
a  meat  pie  directly  it  is  taken  from  the  oven. 

TWELVE  O'CLOCK  PIE. 

This  is  made  with  shoulder  of  mutton,  boiled  with  carrot  and 
onion,  then  cut  up,  mixed  with  potatoes  separately  boiled  and  cut 
up,  and  put  into  a  baking  dish.  The  crust  is  made  by  mixing  smooth- 
ly mashed  potatoes  to  which  a  tablespoonful  of  shortening  has  been 
added,  with  enough  flour  and  water  to  make  them  roll  out  easily. 
A  pie  made  of  a  pound  of  meat  will  require  5  or  6  small  boiled 
potatoes,  a  cupful  of  mashed  potatoes,  and  8  to  10  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  and  should  be  baked  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 
Salt,  pepper  and  other  seasoning,  as  onion  and  carrot,  may  be  added 
to  taite.   A  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  makes  the  cruit  lighter 


30 


GOVERNMENT    CQOK  BOOK 


MEAT  AND  TOMATO  PIE. 

This  dish  presents  an  excellent  way  of  using  up  small  quantities  of 
either  cold  beef  or  cold  mutton.  If  fresh  tomatoes  are  used,  peel 
and  slice  them;  if  canned,  drain  off  the  liquid.  Place  a  layer  of 
tomatoes  in  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  meat,  and  over 
the  two  dredge  flour,  pepper  and  salt;  repeat  until  the  dish  is 
nearly  full,  then  put  in  an  extra  layer  of  tomatoes  and  cover  th? 
whole  with  a  layer  of  pastry  or  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs.  When 
the  quantity  of  meat  is  small,  it  may  be  "helped  out"  by  boiled 
potatoes  or  other  suitable  vegetables.  A  few  oysters  or  mushrooms 
improve  the  flavor,  especially  when  beef  is  used.  The  pie  will  need 
to  be  baked  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour  according  to  its  size  and 
th«  heat  of  the  oven. 

MEAT  AND  PASTRY  ROLLS. 

Small  quantities  of  cold  ham,  chicken  or  other  meat  may  be 
utilized  for  these.  The  meal  should  be  chopped  fine,  well  seasoned, 
mixed  with  enough  savory  fat  or  butter  to  make  it  "shape,"  and 
formed  into  rolls  about  the  size  of  a  finger.  A  short  dough  (made, 
«ay,  of  a  pint  of  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  1  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  salt  and  milk  enough  to  mix)  should  be  rolled  thin, 
cut  into  strips  and  folded  about  the  meat  rolls,  care  being  taken  to 
keep  the  shape  regular.  The  rolls  should  be  baked  in  a  quick  oven 
until  they  are  a  delicate  brown  color  and  served  hot. 

MEAT  TURNOVERS. 

Almost  any  kind  of  chopped  meat  may  be  used  •  in  these,  and,  if 
the  quantity  on  hand  is  small,  may  be  mixed  with  potato  or  cooked 
rice.  This  filling  should  be  seasoned  to- taste  with  salt  and  pepper, 
onion,  or  whatever  is  relished,  and  laid  on  pieces  of  short  biscuit 
dough  rolled  thin  and  cut  into  circles  about  the  size  of  an  ordinary 
saucer.  The  edges  of  the  dough  should  be  moistened  with  the  white 
of  egg,  the  dough  then  folded  over  the  meat,  and  its  edges  pinched 
closely  together.  If  desired,  the  tops  of  the  turnovers  may  be 
brushed  over  with  yolk  of  egg  before  they  are  placed  in  the  oven. 
About  half  em  hour's  baking  in  a  hot  oven  is  required.  Serving 
with  a  brown  sauce  increases  the  flavor  and  moistens  the  crust. 

MEAT  WITH  MACARONI  AND  OTHER  STARCHY 
MATERIALS. 

Macai'oni  cooked  with  chopped  ham,  hash  made  of 
meat  and  potatoes  or  meat  and  rice,  meat  croquettes — 
made  of  meat  and  some  starchy  materials  like  bread 
crumbs,  cracker  dust,  or  rice — are  other  familiar  ex- 
amples of  meat  combined  with  starchy  materials.  Pilaf, 
a  dish  very  common  in  the  Orient  and  well  known  in 
the  United  States,  is  of  this  character  and  easily  made. 
When  there  is  soup  or  soup  stock  on  hand  it  can  be  well 
used  in  the  pilaf. 

TURKISH  PILAF. 

cup  of  rice.  1  cup  stock  or  broth, 

cup  of  tomatoes  slewed  and      3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
strained. 

Cook  the  rice  and  tomatoes  with  the  stock  in  a  double  boiler  until 
the  rice  is  tender,  removing  the  cover  after  the  rice  is  cooked  if 
there  is  too  much  liquid.  Add  the  butter  and  stir  it  in  with  a  fork 
to  prevent  the  rice  from  being  broken.  A  little  catsup  or  Chili 
tauce  with  water  enough  to  make  three-quarters  of  a  cup  may  be 
substituted  for  the  tomatoes.  This  may  be  served  as  a  border  with 
meat,  or  served  separately  in  the  place  of  a  vegetable,  or  may  make 
(         the  main  dish  at  a  meal,  as  it  is  savory  and  reasonably  nutritious. 

MEAT  CAKES. 

1  pound  chopped  veal.  1  teaspoonful  chopped  onion. 
J4  pound  soaked  bread  crumbs.      1  Yz  tcaspoonfuls  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls  savory  fat  or        Dash  of  pepper, 
butler. 

Mix  all  the  ingredients  except  the  butler  or  fat  and  shape  into 
(mall  round  cake}.    Melt  the  fat  in  a  baking  pan  and  brown  the 


cakes  in  it,  first  one  side  and  then  the  other.  Either  cooked  or  raw 
veal  may  be  used.  In  the  case  of  raw  meat  the  pan  should  be  cov- 
ered so  that  the  heat  may  be  retained  to  soften  the  meat. 

STEW  FROM  COLD  ROAST. 

This  dish  provides  a  good  way  of  using  up  the  remnants  of  a 
roast,  either  of  beef  or  mutton.  The  meat  should  be  freed  from 
fat,  gristle  and  bones,  cut  into  small  pieces,  slightly  salted,  and  put 
into  a  kettle  with  water  enough  to  nearly  cover  it.  It  should  simmer 
until  almost  ready  to  break  in  pieces,  when  onions  and  raw  potatoes, 
peeled  and  quartered,  should  be  added.  A  little  soup  stock  may 
also  be  added  if  available.  Cook  until  the  potatoes  are  done,  then 
thicken  the  liquor  or  gravy  with  flour.  The  stew  may  be  attractively 
served  on  slices  of  crisp  toast. 

MEAT  WITH  BEANS.  WJE; 

Dry  beans  are  very  rich  in  protein,  the  percentage 
being  fully  as  large  as  that  in  meat.  Dry  beans  and 
other  similar  legumes  are  usually  cooked  in  water,  which 
they  absorbed,  and  so  are  diluted  before  serving;  on  the 
other  hand,  meats  by  the  ordinary  methods  of  cooking 
are  usually  deprived  of  some  of  the  water  originally 
present — facts  which  are  often  overlooked  in  discussing 
the  matter.  Nevertheless,  when  beans  are  served  with 
meat  the  dish  is  almost  as  rich  in  protein  as  if  it  con- 
sisted entirely  of  meat. 

Pork  and  beans  is  such  a  well-known  dish  that  recipes 
are  not  needed.  Some  cooks  use  a  piece  of  corned  mut- 
ton or  a  piece  of  corned  beef  in  place  of  salt  or  corned 
pork  or  bacon  or  use  butter  or  olive  oil  in  preparing 
this  dish.  

In  the  Southern  States,  where  cowpeas  are  a  common 
crop,  they  are  cooked  in  the  same  way  as  dried  beans. 
Cowpeas  baked  with  salt  pork  or  bacon  make  an  excel- 
lent dish  resembling  pork  and  beans,  but  of  distinctive 
flavor.  Cowpeas  boiled  with  ham  or  with  bacon  are 
also  well-known  and  palatable  dishes. 

Recipes  are  here  given  for  some  less  common  meat 
and  bean  dishes. 

MEXICAN  BEEF. 

The  Mexicans  have  a  dish  known  as  "Chili  con  carne"  (meal 
with  Chili  pepper),  the  ingredients  for  which  one  would  doubtless 
have  difficulty  in  obtaining  except  in  the  Southwestern  United  States. 
However,  a  good  substitute  for  it  may  be  made  with  the  foods 
available  in  all  parts  of  the  country.  The  Mexican  recipe  is  as 
follows: 

Remove  the  seeds  from  two  Chili  peppers,  soak  the  pods  in  a 
pint  of  warm  water  until  they  are  soft,  scrape  the  pulp  from  the 
skin  and  add  to  the  water.  Cut  two  pounds  of  beef  into  small 
pieces  and  brown  in  butter  or  drippings.  Add  a  clove  of  garlic 
and  the  Chili  water  Cook  until  the  meat  is  tender,  renewing  the 
water  if  necessary.  Thicken  the  sauce  with  flour.  Serve  with 
Mexican  beans  either  mixed  with  the  meat  or  used  as  a  border. 

In  the  absence  of  the  Chili  peppers,  water  and  Cayenne  pepper 
may  be  used,  and  onions  may  be  substituted  for  gairlic.  For  the 
Mexican  beans,  red  kidney  beans  either  fresh  or  canned  make  a 
good  substitute.  If  the  canned  beans  are  used  they  should  be 
drained  and  healed  in  a  little  savory  fat  or  butter.  The  liquid  may 
be  added  to  the  meat  while  it  is  cooking.  If  the  dried  beans  are 
used  they  should  be  soaked  until  soft,  then  cooked  in  water  until 
lender  and  rather  day,  a  little  butler  or  dripping  and  salt  being 
used  for  seasoning  or  gravy.  White  or  dried  Lima  beans  may  be 
used  in  a  similar  way.  ^ 

HARICOT  OF  MUTTON. 

2  tablespoonfuls      of      chopped  2  tablespoonfuls    of    butler  or 

onions.  drippings. 
1  Yl  pounds  of  lean  mutton  or  2  cups  of  water,  and  salt  and 
lamb  cut  into  2-inch  pieces.  pepper. 

Fry  the  onions  in  the  butter,  add  the  meat  and  brown;  cover 
with  water  and  cook  until  the  meat  is  tender.   Serve  with  a  border 


GOVERNMENT 


of  Lima  beans,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  a  little  chopped 
parsley.  Fresh,  canned,  dried,  or  evaporated  Lima  beans  may  be 
used  in  making  this  dish. 

ROAST  PORK  WITH  COWPEAS. 

For  this  dish  a  leg  of  young  pork  should  be  selected.  ^it!i 
a  sharp  knife  make  a  deep  cut  in  the  knuckle  and  fill  the  opening 
with  sage,  pepper,  salt,  and  chopped  onion.  When  the  roast  is 
half  done  scar  the  skin,  but  do  not  cut  deeper  than  the  outer  rind. 
When  the  meat  is  nearly  cooked  pour  off  the  excess  of  fat  and 
add  a  quart  of  Tvhite  cowpeas  which  have  been  previously  par- 
boiled or  "hulled"  and  cook  slovv-ly  until  quite  done  and  the  meat 
is  brown.    Apple  sauce  may  be  served  with  this  dish. 

MEAT  SALADS. 

Whether  meat  salads  are  economical  or  not  depends 
upon  the  way  in  which  the  materials  are  utilized.  If  in 
chicken  salad,  for  example,  only  the  white  meat  of 
chickens  especially  bought  for  the  purpose  and  only  the 
inside  stems  of  expensive  celery  are  used,  it  can  hardly 
be  cheaper  than  plain  chicken.  But,  if  portions  of  meat 
left  over  from  a  previous  serving  are  mixed  with  celery 
grown  at  home,  they  certainly  make  an  economical  dish, 
and  one  very  acceptable  to  most  persons.  Cold  roast 
pork  or  tender  veal — in  fact,  any  white  meat — can  be 
utilized  in  the  same  way.  Apples  cut  into  cubes  may 
be  substituted  for  part  of  the  celery;  many  cooks  con- 
sider that  with  the  apple  the  salad  takes  the  dressing 
better  than  with  the  celery  alone.  Many  also  prefer  to 
marinate  (i.  e.,  mix  with  a  little  oil  and  vinegar)  the 
meat  and  celery  or  celery  and  apples  before  putting  in 
the  final  dressing,  which  may  be  either  mayonnaise  or 
a  good  boiled  dressing. 

MEAT  WITH  EGGS. 

Occasionally  eggs  are  combined  with  meat,  making 
very  nutritious  dishes.  Whether  this  is  an  economy  or 
not,  of  course,  depends  on  the  comparative  cost  of  eggs 
and  meat. 

In  general,  it  may  be  said  that  eggs  are  cheaper  food 
than  meat  when  a  dozen  costs  less  than  IV2  pounds  of 
meat,  for  a  dozen  eggs  weigh  about  IV2  pounds  and  the 
pi-oportions  of  protein  and  fat  which  they  contain  are 
not  far  different  from  the  proportions  of  these  nutrients 
in  the  average  cut  of  meat.  When  eggs  are  30  cents  a 
dozen  they  compare  favorably  with  round  of  beef  at 
20  cents  a  pound. 

Such  common  dishes  as  ham  and  eggs,  bacon  or  salt 
pork  and  eggs,  and  omelette  with  minced  ham  or  other 
meat  are  familiar  to  all  cooks. 

ROAST  BEEF  WITH  YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 

The  beef  is  roasted  as  usual  and  the  pudding  made  as  follows: 
YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 
3  eggs.  1  cupful  flour. 

1  pint  milk.  I  teaspoonful  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  until  very  light,  then  add  the  milk.  Pour  the 
mixture  over  the  flour,  add  the  salt,  and  beat  well.  Bake  in  hissing 
hot  gem  pans  or  in  an  ordinary  baking  pan  for  45  minutes  and  baste 
with  drippings  from  the  beef.  If  gem  pans  are  used  they  should 
be  placed  on  a  dripping  pan  to  protect  the  floor  of  the  oven  from 
the  fat.  Many  cooks  prefer  to  bake  Yorkshire  pudding  in  the  pan 
with  the  meat;  in  this  case  the  roast  should  be  placed  on  a  rack 
and  the  pudding  batter  poured  on  the  pan  under  it. 

CORNED-BEEF  HASH  WITH  POACHED  EGGS. 

A  dish  popular  with  many  persons  is  corned-beef  hash  with 
poached  eggs  on  top  of  the  hash.  A  slice  of  toast  is  sometimes 
used  under  the  hash.  This  suggests  a  way  of  utilizing  the  small 
amount  of  corned-beef  hash  which  would  otherwise  be  insufficient 
for  a  meal. 


COOK   BOOK  31 


Housekeepers  occasionally  use  up  odd  bits  of  other  meat  in  a 
similar  way,  chopping  and  seasoning  them  and  then  warming  and 
serving  in  individual  baking  cups  with  a  poached  or  shirred  egg  on 
each. 

HAM  AND  POACHED  EGGS  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE. 

A  more  elaborate  dish  of  itieat  and  eggs  is  made  by  placing 
a  piece  of  thinly  sliced  boiled  ham  on  a  round  of  buttered  toast,  a 
poached  egg  on  the  ham,  and  covering  with  a  highly  seasoned  cream 
or  a  Hollandaise  sauce.  A  slice  of  tongue  may  be  used  instead  of 
the  ham.  If  preferred,  a  well-seasoned  and  rather  thick  tomato 
sauce  or  curry  sauce  may  be  used. 

STUFFING  OR  FORCEMEAT. 

Another  popular  way  to  extend  the  flavor  of  meat 
over  a  large  amount  of  food  is  by  the  use  of  stuffing 
or  forcemeat  (a  synonym  more  common  in  England  than 
in  the  United  States) .  As  it  is  impossible  to  introduce 
much  stuffing  into  some  pieces  of  meat  even  if  the  meat 
is  cut  to  make  a  pocket  for  it,  it  is  well  to  prepare 
more  than  can  be  put  into  the  meat  and  to  cook  the  re- 
mainder in  the  pan  beside  the  meat.  Some  cooks  cover 
the  extra  stuffing  with  buttered  paper  while  it.  is  cookr 
ing  and  baste  it  at  intervals.  . 

Some  i-ecipes  for  meat  dishes  of  this  character  fol- 
low, and  others  will  be  found  in  cook  books: 

MOCK  DUCK. 

Mock  duck  is  made  by  placing  on  a  round  steak  a  stuffing  of 
bread  crumb  well  seasoned  with  chopped  onions,  butler,  chopped 
suet  or  dripping,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  sage,  if  the  flavor  is 
relished.  The  steak  is  then  rolled  around  the  stuffing  and  tied  with 
a  string  in  several  places.  If  the  steak  seems  lough,  the  roll  is 
steamed  or  slewed  until  lender  before  roasting  in  the  oven  until 
brown.  Or  it  may  be  cooked  in  a  casserole  or  other  covered  dish,  in 
which  case  a  cupful  or  more  of  water  or  soup-stock  should  be 
poured  around  the  meat.  Mock  duck  is  excellent  served  with 
currant  or  other  acid  jelly. 

MOCK  WILD  DUCK. 

1  flank  steak,  or  J/2  cup  cracker  crumbs. 

l'/2  pounds  round  steak  cut        Salt,     pepper,     and  powdered 
inch  thick.  thyme,  sage  and  savory. 

2  Icunb  kidneys.  2  lablespoonfuls  flour. 
1/^  cup  butter  or  drippings.  1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  minced  onion.        3  cupfuls  water  or  stock. 

Trim  the  kidneys  of  all  fat,  cords,  and  veins.  Cut  Into  small 
pieces  and  spread  evenly  over  one  side  of  the  steak  together  with 
the  crumbs,  onion,  and  seasoning.  Roll  and  lie  with  a  cord.  Brown 
the  roll  in  fat,  then  remove  and  make  a  gravy  by  heating  the  flour 
in  the  fat  and  adding  three  cupfuls  of  stock  or  water  and  the  sugar. 
Put  the  meal  into  the  gravy  and  cook  slowly  until  fender  in  a 
covered  baking  dish,  a  steamer,  or  a  fireless  cooker.  If  steamed 
or  cooked  in  a  fireless  cooker,  the  roll  should  be  browned  in  tho 
oven  before  serving. 

VEAL  OR  BEEF  BIRDS. 

A  popular  dish  known  as  veal  or  beef  birds  or  by  a  variety 
of  special  names  is  made  by  taking  small  pieces  of  meat,  each  just 
large  enough  for  an  individual  serving,  and-  preparing  them  in  the 
same  way  as  the  mock  duck  is  prepared. 

Sometimes  variety  is  introduced  by  seasoning  the  stuffing  with 
chopped  olives  or  tomatoes.  Many  cooks  prepare  their  "birds" 
by  browning  in  a  little  fat,  then  adding  a  little  water,  covering 
closely   and   simmering   until  tender. 

UTILIZING   THE    CHEAPER    CUTS    OF   MEAT  IN 
PALATABLE  DISHES. 

When  the  housekeeper  attempts  to  reduce  her  meat 
bill  by  using  the  less  expensive  cuts,  she  commonly  hao 
two  difficulties  to  contend  vdth — toughness  and  lack  ojj 


32 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


flavor.  It  has  been  shown  how  prolonged  cooking  soft- 
ens the  connective  tissues  of  the  meat.  Pounding  the 
meat  and  chopping  it  are  also  employed  with  tough 
cuts,  as  they  help  to  break  the  muscle  fibers.  As  for 
flavor,  the  natural  flavor  of  meat  even  in  the  least  de- 
sirable cuts  may  be  developed  by  careful  cooking,  nota- 
bly by  browning  the  surface,  and  other  flavors  may  be 
given  by  the  addition  of  vegetables  and  seasoning  with 
condiments  of  various  kinds. 

Methods  of  preparing  inexpensive  meat  dishes  will 
be  discussed  and  practical  directions  for  them  will  be 
given  in  the  following  sections.  As  often  happens,  two 
or  three  methods  may  be  illustrated  by  the  same  dish, 
but  the  attempt  has  been  made  to  group  the  recipes 
accoi-ding  to  their  most  salient  feature. 

PROLONGED  COOKING  AT  LOW  HEAT. 

Meat  may  be  cooked  in  water  in  a  number  of  ways 
without  being  allowed  to  reach  the  boiling  point.  With 
the  ordinary  kitchen  range  this  is  accomplished  by  cook- 
ing on  the  cooler  part  of  the  stove  rather  than  on  the 
hottest  part,  directly  over  the  fire.  Experience  with  a 
gas  stove,  particularly  if  it  has  a  small  burner  known 
as  a  "simmerer,"  usually  enables  the  cook  to  maintain 
temperatures  which  are  high  enough  to  sterilize  the 
meat  if  it  has  become  accidentally  contaminated  in  any 
way  and  to  make  it  tender  without  hardening  the  fibers. 
The  double  boiler  would  seem  to  be  a  neglected  utensil 
for  this  purpose.  Its  contents  can  easily  be  kept  up  to 
a  temperature  of  200°  F.,  and  nothing  will  burn.  An- 
other method  is  by  means  of  the  fireless  cooker.  In  this 
a  high  temperature  can  be  maintained  for  a  long  time 
without  the.  application  of  fresh  heat.  Still  another 
method  is  by  means  of  a  closely  covered  baking  dish. 
Earthenware  dishes  of  this  kind  suitable  for  serving 
foods  as  well  as  for  cooking  are  known  as  casseroles. 
For  cooking  purposes  a  baking  dish  '  covered  with  a 
plate  or  a  bean  jar  covered  with  a  saucer  may  be  sub- 
stituted. The  Aladdin  oven  has  long  been  popular  for 
the  purpose  of  preserving  temperatures  which  are  near 
the  boiling  point  and  yet  do  not  reach  it.  It  is  a  thor- 
oughly insulated  oven  which  may  be  heated  either  by  a 
kerosene  lamp  or  a  gas  jet. 

In  this  connection  directions  are  given  for  using  some, 
of  the  toughest  and  least  promising  pieces  of  meat. 

STEWED  SHIN  OF  BEEF. 

4  pounds  of  shin  of  beef.  I  small  slice  of  carrot. 

I  medium-sized  onion.  Yi  tablespoonful  of  salt. 

I  whole  clove  and  a  small  bay  Yi  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

leaf.  2  quarts  of  boiling  water. 

I  sprig  of  parsley.  \Y2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  or 

V/i  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  savory  drippings. 

J-iave  the  butcher  cut  the  bone  in  several  pieces.  Put  all  the 
ingredients  but  the  flour  and  butter  into  a  stewpan  and  bring 
to  a  boil.  Set  the  pan  where  the  liquid  will  just  simmer  for  six 
hours,  or  after  boiling  for  five  or  ten  minutes,  put  all  into  the 
fireless  cooker  for  eight  or  nine  hours,  with  the  butter,  flour,  and 
Mc-half  cupful  of  the  clear  soup  from  which  the  fat  has  been  re- 
■novea,  maice  a  brown  sauce;  to  this  add  the  meat  and 
f^e  marrow  removed  from  the  bone.  Heat  and  serve.  The  re- 
mainder of  the  liquid  in  which  the  meat  has  been  cooked  may  be 
used  for  so\!p. 

BOILED  BEEF  WITH  HORSERADISH  SAUCE. 

Plain  boiled  beef  may  be  served  with  horseradish  sauce,  and 
makes  a  palatable  dish.  A  little  chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over  the 
meat  when  served  is  considered  an  improvement  by  many  persons. 
For  the  sake  of  variety  the  meat  may  be  browned  like  pot  roast 
before  serving. 


SCOTCH  BROTH. 

3  pounds  mutton.  2  tablespoonfuls     of  minced 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  pear!  barley.  celery. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  onion.  2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt. 

2  tablespoonfuls     of     minced    I  teasponful  of  pepper. 

turnip.  1  tablespoonful     of  minced 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  car-  parsley. 

rot.  3  quarts  cold  water. 

Remove  the  bones  and  all  the  fat  from  the  mutton,  cut  the  meat 
into  small  pieces  and  put  it  into  a  stew  pan  with  the  water,  chopped 
vegetables,  barley,  and  all  the  seasoning  excepting  the  parsley. 
It  will  be  found  convenient  to  tie  the  bones  in  a  piece  of  thin  white 
c  oth  before  adding  them  to  the  other  ingredients.  Bring  the  stew 
to  a  boil,  quickly  skim  it  and  allow  it  to  simmer  for  three  hours, 
thicken  with  the  flour,  and  add  the  chopped  parsley. 

STUFFED  HEART. 

Wash  the  heart  thoroughly  inside  and  out,  stuff  with  the  follow- 
ing mixture,  and  sew  up  the  opening:  One  cup  broken  bread  dipped 
in  fat  and  browned  in  the  oven,  I  chopped  onion  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. 

Cover  the  heart  with  water  and  simmer  until  tender  or  boil  ten 
minutes  and  set  in  the  fireless  cooker  for  six  or  eight  hours.  Remove 
from  the  water  about  one-half  hour  before  serving.  Dredge  with 
flour,  pepper  and  salt,  or  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  bake  until  brown. 

BRAISED  BEEF,  POT  ROAST,  AND  BEEF  A  LA  MODE 

The  above  names  are  given  to  dishes  made  from  the  less  tender 
cuts  of  meat.  They  vary  little  either  in  composition  or  method  of 
preparation.  In  all  cases  the  meat  is  browned  on  the  outside  to 
increase  the  flavor  and  then  cooked  in  a  small  amount  of  water  in  a 
closely  covered  kettle  or  other  receptacle  until  tender.  The  flavor 
of  the  dish  is  secured  by  browning  the  meat  and  by  the  addition 
of  the  seasoning  vegetables.  Many  recipes  suggest'  that  the  vegetables 
be  removed  before  serving  and  the  liquid  be  thickened.  As  ,  the 
vegetables  are  usually  extremely  well  seasoned- by  means  of  the 
browned  fat  and  the  extracts  of  the  meat,  it  seems  unfortunate  not 
to  serve  them. 

Of  course,  the  kind,  quality,  and  shape  of  the  meat  all  play  their 
part  in  the  matter.  Extra  time  is  needed  for  meats  with  a  good 
deal  of  sinew  and  tough  fibers  such  as  the  tough  steaks,  shank 
cuts,  etc.;  and  naturally  a  filet  of  beef,  or  a  steak  from  a  prime  cut, 
will  take  less  time  than  a  thick  piece  from  the  shin.  Such  dishes 
require  more  time  and  perhaps  more  skill  in  their  preparation  ,and 
may  involve  more  expense  for  fuel  than  the  more  costly  cuts,  which 
like  chops  or  tender  steaks  may  be  quickly  cooked,  but  to  the  epicure, 
as  well  as  to  the  average  man,  they  are  palatable  when  rightly 
prepared. 

BEAN-POT  ROAST. 

3  pounds  mutton  (shoulder),  or  I  cup  carrot  cut  into  small  pieces. 
3  pounds  round,  or  chuck  steak.  1  cup  potatoes  cut  into  small 
Y^  cup  sliced  onion.  pieces. 

Cover  the  meat  with  boiling  water.  Place  the  cover  on  the 
bean  pot  and  let  the  meat  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  two  hours; 
then  add  the  vegetables  cut  in  half-inch  cubes,  with  2  teaspoonfuli 
salt;  cook  until  the  vegetables  are  tender,  which  will  require  about 
one  hour;  then  serve,  pouring  a  sauce  over  the  meat,  made  from  I 
cup  of  the  liquid  in  which  the  meat  was  cooked,  thickened  with 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

HUNGARIAN  GOULASH. 


2  founds  top  round  of  beef. 

A  little  flour. 

2  ounces  salt  pork. 

2  cups  tomatoes. 

I  stalk  celery. 


1  onion. 

2  bay  leaves. 

6  whole  cloves. 
6  peppercorns. 
1  blade  mace. 


Cut  the  beef  into  2-inch  pieces  and  sprinkle  with  flour;  fry  the 
salt  pork  until  light  brown ;  add  the  beef  and  cook  slowly  for  about 
thirty-five  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.    Cover  with  water  and  sim- 


33 


mer  about  two  hours,  and  season  with  salt  and  paprika. 

From  the  vegetables  and  spices  a  sauce  ii  made  as  follows: 
Cook  in  sufficient  water  to  cover  for  twenty  minutes;  then  rub 
through  a  sieve,  and  add  to  some  of  the  stock  in  which  the  meat 
was  cooked.  Thicken  with  flour,  using  2  tablespoonfuls  (moistened 
with  cold  water)  to  each  cup  of  liquid,  and  season  with  salt  and 
paprika. 

Serve  the  meat  on  a  platter  with  the  sauce  poured  over  it. 
Potatoes,  carrots,  and  green  peppers  cooked  until  tender,  and  cut 
into  small  pieces  or  narrow  strips,  arc  usually  sprinkled  over  the 
dish  when  served,  and  noodles  may  be  arranged  in  a  border  upon 
the  platter. 

Goulash  is  a  Hungarian  dish  which  has  come  to  be  a  favorite 
in  the  United  States. 

CASSEROLE  COOKERY 

A  casserole  is  a  heavy  earthenware  dish  with  a  cover.  A  sub- 
(litut:  for  it  can  easily  be  improvised  by  using  any  heavy  earthen- 
ware dish  with  a  heavy  plate  for  the  cover.  A  casserole  presentable 
enough  in  appearance  to  be  put  on  the  table  serves  the  double  pur- 
pose of  baking  and  serving  dish. 

A  suitable  cut  of  beef  or  veal,  and  it  may  well  be  one  of  the 
cheaper  cut,  as  the  long,  slow  cooking  insures  tenderness,  may  be 
cooked  in  a  casserole. 

Poultry  and  other  meals  besides  beef  or  veal  can  be  cooked  in 
this  manner.  Chicken  cooked  in  a  casserole,  which  is  a  favorite  and 
expensive  dish  in  good  hotels  and  restaurants,  may  be  easily  prepared 
in  the  home,  and  casserole  cookery  is  to  be  recommended  for  a 
tough  chicken. 

The  heat  must  be  moderate  and  the  cooking  occupy  a  long  time. 
Hurried  cooking  in  a  casserole  is  out  of  the  question.  If  care  is 
taken  in  this  particular,  and  suitable  seasonings  are  used,  few  who 
know  anything  of  cooking  should  go  astray. 

Chopped  meat  also  may  be  cooked  in  a  casserole  and  this  utensil 
is  particularly  useful  for  the  purpose,  because  the  food  is  served 
in  the  same  dish  in  which  it  is  cooked  and  may  easily  be  kept 
hot,  a  point  which  is  important  with  chopped  meats,  which  usually 
cool  rapidly. 

CASSEROLE  ROAST. 

3  or  4  pounds  of  round  or  rump     One-fourth  each  of  a  carrot,  a 
of  beef.  turnip,  an  onion,  and  a  head 

A  slice  of  salt  pork.  of  celery  cul  into  small  pieces. 

A  few  peppercorns. 

Try  out  the  pork.  Brown  the  meat  on  both  sides  in  the  fal.  Put 
in  a  casserole  with  the  vegetables  around  it,  add  2  cupfuls  of  water 
or  stock.  Cover  and  cook  in  a  hot  oven  three  hours,  basting  oc- 
casionally. A  sauce  or  gravy  can  be  made  with  water,  flour,  and 
»ome  of  the  juice  left  in  the  casserole. 

CASSEROLE  OR  ITALIAN  HASH. 

Boil  one-fourth  pound  of  macaroni,  drain  and  put  into  a  but- 
tered casserole,  add  a  little  butter  and  grated  cheese.  Push  the 
macaroni  to  the  sides  of  the  dish  and  fill  the  center  with  chopped 
cooked  meat  seasoned  to  suit  the  taste  of  the  family.  A  little 
sausage  gives  a  good  flavor  to  this  dish.  Place  in  the  oven  until 
hot  throughout,  and  serve. 

A  very  good  modification  of  this  is  made  by  using  raw  instead 
of  cooked  meat.  For  this,  one-half  pound  of  round  steak  is  suf- 
ficient for  a  family  of  six.  This  should  be  cut  into  small  pieces, 
browned,  and  cooked  until  tender  in  water  with  the  onions  and  other 
seasonings.  An  hour  before  the  cooking  is  complete,  add  one- 
half  can  of  tomatoes.  Before  serving,  the  meat  may  be  mixed 
with  the  sauce,  and  the  whole  is  poured  over  the  macaroni. 

MEAT  COOKED  WITH  VINEGAR. 

Dishes  of  similar  sort  as  regard  cooking,  but  in  which 
vinegar  is  used  to  give  flavor  as  well  as  to  soften  the 
meat  and  make  it  tender,  are  the  following: 


SOUR  BEEF. 

Take  a  piece  of  beef  from  the  rump  or  the  lower  round,  cover 
with  vinegar  or  with  half-and-half  mixture  of  vinegar  and  water, 
add  sliced  onion,  bay  leaves,  and  a  few  mixed  whole  spices  and 
salt.  Allow  to  stand  a  week  in  winter  or  three  or  four  days  In 
summer;  turn  once  a  day  and  keep  covered.  When  ready  to  cook, 
brown  the  meat  in  fat,  using  an  enameled  iron  pan,  strain  the  liquid 
over  it  and  cook  until  tender;  thicken  the  gtavy  with  flour  or 
ginger  snaps  (which  may  be  broken  up  first),  strain  it,  and  pour 
over  the  sliced  meat.    Some  cooks  add  cream. 

SOUR  BEEFSTEAK. 

Round  steak  may  be  cooked  in  water  in  which  there  is  a  littL 
vinegar,  or  if  the  time  is  sufficient,  it  may  be  soaked  for  a  fev^- 
hours  in  vinegar  and  water  and  then  cooked  in  a  casserole  or  ia 
some  similar  way. 

POUNDED  MEAT. 

Pounding  meat  before  cooking  is  an  old-fashioned 
method  of  making  it  tender,  but  while  it  has  the  ad- 
vantage of  breaking  down  the  tough  tissues  it  has  the 
disadvantage  of  being  likely  to  drive  out  the  juices  and 
with  them  the  flavor.  A  very  good  way  of  escaping 
this  difficulty  is  pounding  flour  into  the  meat;  this 
catches  and  retains  the  juices.  Below  are  given  the 
recipes  for  two  palatable  dishes  in  which  this  is  done: 

FARMER  STEW. 

Pound  flour  into  both  sides  of  a  round  steak,  using  as  much  as  the 
meat  will  take  up.  This  may  be  done  with  a  meat  pounder  or  with 
the  edge  of  a  heavy  plate.  Fry  in  drippings,  butter,  or  other  fal 
in  a  Scotch  bowl,  or  if  more  convenient  in  an  ordinary  iron  kettle 
or  a  frying  pan;  then  add  water  enough  to  cover  it.  Cover  the  dish 
very  tightly  so  that  the  steam  cannot  escape,  and  allow  the  meal 
to  simmer  for  two  hours  or  until  it  is  tender.  One  advantage 
of  this  dish  is  that  ordinarily  it  is  ready  to  serve  when  the  meal 
is  done  as  the  gravy  is  already  thic'zened.  However,  if  a  large 
amount  of  fat  is  used  in  the  frying,  the  gravy  may  not  be  thick 
enough  and  must  be  blended  with  flour. 

SPANISH  BEEFSTEAK. 

Take  a  piece  of  round  steak  weighing  2  pounds  and  about  an 
inch  thick;  pound  until  thin,  season  with  salt  and  Cayenne  pepper, 
cover  with  a  layer  of  bacon  or  salt  pork,  cut  into  thin  slices,  roll  and 
tie  with  a  cord.  Pour  around  it  half  a  cupful  of  milk  and  half  a 
cupful  of  water.  Place  in  a  covered  baking  dish  and  cook  two 
hours,  basting  occasionally. 

CHOPPED  MEAT. 

Chopping  meat  is  one  of  the  principal  methods  of 
making  tough  and  inexpensive  meat  tender,  i.  e.,  divid- 
ing it  finely  and  thus  cutting  the  connective  tissue  into 
small  bits.  Such  meats  have  another  advantage  in  that 
they  may  be  cooked  quickly  and  economically. 

In  broiling  chopped  meal  the  fact  should  be  kept  in  mind  that 
there  is  no  reason  why  it  should  not  be  cooked  like  the  best  and 
most  expensive  tenderloin.  The  only  reason  that  ever  existed  for 
difference  in  treatment  was  the  toughness  of  the  connective  tissue, 
and  this  feature  has  been  overcome  by  the  chopping.  The  ideal  to 
be  reached  in  broiling  steak  is  to  sear  the  surface  very  quickly,  so 
that  the  juices  which  contain  the  greatei;  part  of  the  flavoring  of 
the  meat  shall  be  kept  in,  and  then  to  allow  the  heat  to  penetrate 
to  the  inside  until  the  whole  mass  is  cooked  to  the  taste  of  the 
family.  To  pass  the  point  where  the  meat  ceases  to  be  puffy  and 
juicy  and  becomes  flat  and  hard  is  very  undesirable,  as  the  palata- 
bility  is  then  lost.  Exactly  the  same  ideal  should  be  kept  in  mind  in 
broiling  chopped  meat.  If  this  were  always  done,  hard,  compact, 
tasteless  balls  or  cakes  of  meal  would  be  served  less  often.  To  begin 
with,  the  broiler  should  be  even  more  carefully  greased  than  for  a 
whole  steak.  This  makes  it  possible  to  form  the  bails  or  cakes  of 
chopped  meat  with  very  little  pressure  without  running  the  risk  of 
having  them  pulled  to  pieces  by  adhering  to  the  wires  of  the  broiler. 
They  should  be  heated  on  both  sides  even  more  quickly  than  the 
I  steak,  because  the  chopping  has  provided  more  ways  of  escape  for 
I  ihe  juice,  and  these  openings  should  be  sealed  as  soon  as  possible. 


34 


GOVERNMENT    COOK  BOOK 


The  interior  should  be  cooked  to  the  taste  of  the  family  just  as 
the  steak  is. 

In  regard  to  broiling  it  may  incidentally  be  noted  that  house- 
keepers often  make  themselves  unnecessary  work  when  broiling  under 
gas  by  allowing  the  juice  from  steaks  or  meat  balls  to  drop  into  the 
large  pan  under  the  rack.  A  smaller  pan  set  in  the  larger  one  may 
be  made  to  catch  all  the  juice  and  fat  and  is  much  easier  to  wash. 
It  serves  also  to  economize  the  gravy. 

Chopped  raw  meat  of  almost  any  kind  can  be  very  quickly  made 
into  a  savory  dish  by  cooking  it  with  water  and  milk  for  a  short 
lime,  then  thickening  with  butter  and  flour,  and  adding  different 
seasonings  as  relish,  either  pepper  and  salt  alone,  or  onion  juice, 
celery,  or  tomato.  Such  a  dish  may  be  made  to  "go  further'  by 
serving  it  on  toast  or  with  a  border  of  rice  or  in  some  similar 
combination. 

TOUGH    PORTIONS    OF    PORTERHOUSE  STEAK. 

Before  speaking  of  the  cooking  of  the  cuts  that  lack  tenderness 
throughout,  it  may  be  well  to  refer  to  the  fact  that  the  flank  end 
of  the  porterhouse  is  to  be  classed  with  the  toughest  of  cuts  and  with 
those  which,  when  cooked  alone,  are  with  difficulty  made  tender 
even  by  long  heating.  Mock  duck,  which  is  commonly  made  out 
of  flank  steak,  can  be  rendered  tender  enough  to  be  palatable  only 
by  long  steaming  or  cooking  in  water  and  yet  people 
generally  broil  this  part  of  the  steak  with  the  tenderloin  and  expect 
it  to  be  eaten.  The  fact  is  that  to  broil  this  part  of  the  porterhouse 
steak  is  not  good  management.  It  is  much  more  profitable  to  put  it 
into  the  soup  kettle  or  to  make  it  into  a  stew.  In  families  where 
most  of  the  members  are  away  during  the  day  the  latter  is  a  good 
plan,  for  the  end  of  a  steak  makes  a  good  slew  for  two  or  three 
people.  This  may  be  seasoned  with  vegetables  left  from  dinner., 
or  two  or  three  olives  cut  up  in  gravy  will  give  a  very  good  flavor; 
or  a  few  drops  of  some  one  of  the  bottled  meat  sauces,  if  the  flavor 
is  relished,  or  a  little  Chili  sauce  may  be  added  to  the  stew.  But 
if  the  tough  end  of  a  porterhouse  is  needed  with  the  rest,  a  good 
plan  is  to  put  it  through  a  meat  grinder,  make  it  into  balls,  and 
broil  it  with  the  tender  portions.  Each  member  of  the  family  can 
be  served  with  a  piece  of  the  tenderloin  and  a  meat  ball.  If  the 
chopped  meat  is  seasoned  with  a  little  onion  juice,  grated  lemon 
rind,  or  chopped  parsley,  a  good  flavor  is  imparted  to  the  gravy. 

HAMBURG  STEAK. 

This  name  is  commonly  given  to  inexpensive  cuts  of  beef  chopped, 
seasoned  a  little,  shaped  into  small  balls  or  into  one  large  thin 
cake,  and  quickly  broiled  in  the  way  that  a  tender  steak  would  be. 
Owing  to  the  quick  cooking,  much  of  the  natural  flavor  of  the  meat 
is  developed  and  retained.  The  fact  should  be  kept  in  mind  that 
Hamburg  steak  must  be  made  from  fresh,  well-ground  meal.  It  is 
much  safer  to  chop  the  meat  at  home,  as  chopped  meat  spoils  very 
quickly.  Much  depends,  too,  upon  browning  it  sufficiently  to  bring 
out  the  flavors.  Many  cooks  think  that  Hamburg  steak  is  im- 
proved if  the  meat  is  mixed  with  milk  before  it  is  cooked. 

In  some  parts  of  the  country,  and  particularly  in  some  of  the 
Southern  States,  two  kinds  of  beef  are  on  sale.  One  is  imported  from 
other  parts  of  the  country  and  is  of  higher  price.  The  other,  known 
locally  as  "native  beef,"  is  sometimes  lacking  in  flavor  and  is  fat 
and  is  usually  tougher.  Southern  native  beef  such  as  raised  in 
Florida  is  almost  invariably,  however,  of  extremely  good  flavor, 
due  presumably  to  the  feed  or  other  conditions  under  which  it  is 
raised.  By  chopping  such  meat  and  cooking  it  as  Hamburg  steak,  a 
dish  almost  as  palatable  as  the  best  cuts  of  the  more  expensive 
beef  may  be  obtained.  In  such  cases,  however,  it  is  desirable,  be- 
cause of  the  low  percentage  of  fat,  to  add  suet  or  butter  to  the  meat. 
The  reason  for  this  is  that  in  the  cooking  the  water  of  the  juice 
when  unprotected  by  fat  evaporates  too  quickly  and  leaves  the  meat 
dry.  This  may  be  prevented  by  adding  egg  as  well  as  fat,  for  the 
albumen  of  the  egg  hardens  quickly  and  tends  to  keep  in  the  juices. 
The  proportion  should  be  1  egg  to  V/i  pounds  of  meat. 

SAVORY  ROLLS. 

Savory  rolls  in  great  variety  are  made  out  of  chopped  meat  cither 
with  or  without  egg.    The  variety  is  secured  by  the  flavoring  ma- 


terials used  and  by  the  sauces  with  which  the  baked  rolls  are  served. 
A  few  recipes  will  be  given  below.  While  these  definite  directions 
are  given  it  should  be  remembered  that  a  few  general  principles 
borne  in  mind  make  recipes  unnecessary  and  make  it  possible  to 
utilize  whatever  may  happen  to  be  on  hand.  Appetizing  rolls  are 
made  with  beef  and  pork  mixed.  The  proportion  varies  from  two 
parts  of  beef  and  one  of  pork  to  two  of  pork  and  one  of  beef. 
The  rolls  are  always  improved  by  laying  thin  slices  of  salt  pork 
or  bacon  over  them,  which  keep  the  surface  moistened  with  fat  dur- 
ing the  roasting.  These  slices  should  be  scored  on  the  edge,  so  that 
they  will  not  curl  up  in  cooking.  The  necessity  for  the  salt  pork 
is  greater  when  the  chopped  meat  is  chiefly  beef  than  when  it  is 
largely  pork  or  veal.  Bread  crumbs  or  bread  moistened  in  w»ler 
can  always  be  added,  as  it  helps  to  make  the  dish  go  further.  When 
onions,  green  peppers,  or  other  vegetables  are  used,  they  should 
always  be  thoroughly  cooked  in  fat  before  being  put  in  the  roll, 
for  usually  they  do  not  cook  sufficiently  in  the  length  of  time  it  takes 
lo  cook  the  meat.  Sausage  makes  a  good  addition  to  the  roll,  but  it 
is  usually  cheaper  to  use  unseasoned  pork  meat  with  the  addition 
of  a  little  sage. 

CANNELON  OF  BEEF. 

This  d  ish  is  prepared  by  making  chopped  beef  into  a  roll  and 
baking  it  wrapped  in  a  buttered  paper,  a  method  designed  to  keep 
in  the  steam  and  so  insure  a  moist,  tender  dish.  The  paper  must 
be  removed  before  serving.  The  roll  should  be  basted  occasionally 
with  butter  and  water  or  drippings  and  water.  In  preparing  the 
roll  an  egg  may  be  added  for  each  pound  and  a  half  of  meat,  and 
chopped  parsley,  onion  juice,  lemon  peel,  or  finely  chopped  green 
peppers  make  good  seasoning.  A  thickened  gravy  may  be  made 
from  the  drippings,  the  liquid  used  being  either  water  or  tomato 
juice. 

Strips  of  pork  laid  on  the  roll  may  be  substituted  for  the  but- 
tered paper  and  basting. 

FILIPINO  BEEF. 

I  pound  round  of  beef.  I  cup  of  soft  stale  bread  crumbs. 

Yi  pound  lean  fresh  pork.  2  cups  of  stewed  tomatoes. 

I   small  onion.  2  slices  of  bacon. 

I    green  pepper.  2  tablespoon fuls  of  butter. 

1   teaspoonfui  of  salt.  4  tabiespoonfuls  of  flour, 

1  egg- 
Remove  the  seeds  from  the  pepper  and  put  it  through  the  meat 
grinder  with  the  meals  and  the  onion.  Add  crumbs,  egg  and  salt. 
Make  into  a  roll,  place  in  a  shallow  baking  dish,  pour  the  strained 
tomatoes  around  it,  put  the  bacon  on  top,  and  bake  forty  minutes, 
basting  with  the  tomatoes.  Thicken  the  gravy  with  the  flour  cooked 
in  the  butter.  A  little  seasoning  such  as  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  a  clove, 
and  a  small  piece  of  onion,  improves  the  tomato  sauce.  As  the 
pepper  and  onion  are  not  likely  to  be  cooked  as  soon  as  the  meat, 
it  is  well  to  fry  them  in  a  little  fat  before  adding  to  the  other  in- 
gredients. 

This  dish  will  serve  6  to  8  people.  When  the  meat  is  20  cents  a 
pound  and  every  other  item  is  valued  at  usual  town  market  prices, 
the  dish  costs  about  50  cents.  If  the  meat  costs  only  10  cents  per 
pound  and  the  vegetables  from  the  garden  are  used  the  initial  cost 
of  the  dish  will  be  small.  Since  no  vegetable  except  potatoes  or  rice 
need  be  served  with  this  dish,  it  may  be  said  to  answer  the  pur- 
pose of  both  meat  and  vegetable. 


MOCK  RABBIT. 


I/, 


2  pound  round  steak,  and 


I  pound  sausage; 

or 

1  pound  round  steak,  and 
Yi  pound  sausage  meat. 


3  slices  of  bread  moistened  with 

water. 
1  egg. 
I  onion. 

'^4  pound  salt  pork.  i 
Pepper  and  salt. 

Chop  the  meat.  Chop  the  onion  and  cook  (but  do  not  brown)  it 
in  the  fat  tried  out  of  a  small  portion  of  the  pork.  Add  the  bread 
and  cook  few  minutes.  When  this  is  cool,  mix  all  the  ingredients 
and  form  into  a  long  round  roll.    The  surface  can  easily  be  mad* 


GOVERNMENT 


tmooth  if  the  hand  is  wet  with  cold  water.  Lay  the  remaining 
pork,  cut  in  thin  slices,  on  top,  and  bake  forty  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven.  The  sausage  may  be  omitted  if  desired  and  other  seasoning 
used. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

3  pounds  veal.  3  eggs,  well  beaten. 

I  pound  salt  pork.  J4  teasfKJonful  pepper. 

6  soda  crackers  rolled  fine.  Yz  teaspoonful  salt. 

Chop  the  meat  mixed  with  the  other  ingredients,  shape,  and  bake 
three  hours,  basting  occasionally  with  pork  fat.  Use  one-fourth  cup 
of  fat  for  this  purpose.  If  the  roll  is  pierced  occasionally,  the  fat 
will  penetrate  more  effectively.  Veal  loaf  may  also  be  cooked  in 
bread  pans.   Some  persons  cook  the  veal  before  chopping. 

DEVELOPING  AND  IMPROVING  FLAVOR  OF  MEAT. 

The  typical  meat  flavors  are  very  palatable  to  most 
persons,  even  when  they  are  constantly  tasted,  and 
consequently  the  better  cuts  of  meat  in  which  they  are 
well  developed  can  be  cooked  and  sex-ved  without  atten- 
tion being  paid  especially  to  flavor.  Careful  cooking 
aids  in  developing  the  natural  flavor  of  some  of  the 
cheaper  cuts,  and  such  a  result  is  to  be  sought  wherever 
it  is  possible.  Browning  also  brings  out  flavors  agree- 
able to  most  palates.  Aside  from  these  two  ways  of 
increasing  the  flavor  of  the  meat  itself  there  are  count- 
less ways  of  adding  flavor  to  otherwise  rather  tasteless 
meats.  The  flavors  may  be  added  in  preparing  the  meat 
for  cooking,  as  in  various  seasoned  dishes  already  de- 
scribed, or  they  may  be  supplied  to  cooked  meat  in  the 
form  of  sauces. 

RETAINING  NATURAL  FLAVOR. 

As  has  already  been  pointed  out,  it  is  extremely  dif- 
ficult to  retain  the  flavor-giving  extractives  in  a  piece 
of  meat  so  tough  as  to  require  prolonged  cooking.  It  is 
sometimes  partially  accomplished  by  first  searing  the* 
exterior  of  the  meat  and  thus  preventing  the  escape  of 
the  juices.  Another  device,  illustrated  by  the  following 
recipe,  is  to  let  them  escape  into  the  gravy  which  is 
served  with  the  meat  itself.  A  similar  principle  is  ap- 
plied when  roasts  are  basted  with  their  own  juice. 

ROUND  STEAK  ON  BISCUITS. 

Cut  round  steak  into  pieces  about  one-half  inch  square,  cover 
with  water  and  cook  it  at  a  temperature  just  below  the  boiling  point 
until  it  is  tender,  or  boil  for  five  minutes,  and  while  still  hot  put 
into  the  fireless  cooker  and  leave  it  for  five  hours.  Thicken  the 
gravy  with  flour  mixed  vnth  water,  allowing  2  level  tablespoonfuls 
to  a  cup  of  water.  Pour  the  meat  and  gravy  over  split  baking 
powder  biscuits  so  baked  that  they  have  a  large  amount  of  crust. 

FLAVOR  OF  BROWNED  MEAT  OR  FAT. 

Next  to  the  unchanged  flavor  of  the  meat  itself  comes 
the  flavor  which  is  secured  by  browning  the  meat  with 
fat.  The  outside  slices  of  roast  meat  have  this  browned 
flavor  in  marked  degree.  Except  in  the  case  of  roasts, 
browning  for  flavor  is  usually  accomplished  by  heating 
the  meat  in  a  frying  pan  in  fat  which  has  been  tried 
out  of  pork,  or  in  suet  or  butter.  Care  should  be  taken 
that  the  fat  is  not  scorched.  The  chief  reason  for  the 
bad  opinion  in  which  fried  food  is  held  by  many  is  that 
it  almost  always  means  eating  burned  fat.  When  fat 
is  'heated  too  high  it  splits  up  into  fatty  acids  and 
glycerin,  and  from  the  glycerin  is  formed  a  substance 
(acrolein)  which  has  a  very  irritating  effect  upon  the 
mucous  membrane.  All  will  recall  that  the  fumes  of 
scorched  fat  makes  the  eyes  water.  It  is  not  surprising 
that  such  a  substance,  if  taken  into  the  stomach,  should 
cause  digestive  disturbance.  Fat  in  itself  is  a  very 
valuable  food,  and  the  objection  to  fried  foods  because 
they  may  be  fat  seems  illogical.   If  they  supply  burned 


COOK   BOOK  35 


fat  there  is  a  good  reason  for  suspicion.  Many  house- 
keepers cook  bacon  in  the  oven  on  a  wire  broiler  over 
a  pan  and  believe  it  more  wholesome  than  fried  bacon. 
The  reason,  of  course,  is  that  thus  cooked  in  the  oven 
there  is  less  chance  for  the  bacon  becoming  impregnated 
with  the  burned  fat.  Where  fried  salt  pork  Is  much 
used  good  cooks  know  that  it  must  not  be  cooked  over  a 
very  hot  fire,  even  if  they  have  never  heard  of  the 
chemistry  of  burned  fat.  The  recipe  for  bean-pot  roast 
and  other  similar  recipes  may  be  varied  by  browning 
the  meat  or  part  of  it  before  covering  with  water.  This 
results  in  keeping  some  of  the  natural  flavoring  within 
the  meat  itself  and  allowing  less  to  go  into  the  gravy. 
The  flavor  of  veal  can  be  very  greatly  improved  in  this 
way. 

The  following  old-fashioned  dishes  made  with  pork 
owe  their  savoriness  chiefly  to  the  flavor  of  browned 
fat  or  meat: 

SALT  PORK  WITH  MILK  GRAVY. 

Cut  salt  or  cured  pork  into  thin  slices.  If  very  salt,  cover  with 
hot  water  and  allow  it  to  stand  for  ten  minutes.  Score  the  rind  of 
the  slices  and  fry  slowly  until  they  are  a  golden  brovm.  Make  a 
milk  gravy  by  heating  flour  in  the  fat  that  has  been  tried  out,  allow- 
ing 2  tablespoonfuls  of  fat  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  each  cup 
of  milk.  This  is  a  good  way  to  use  skim  milk,  which  is  as  rich  in 
protein  as  whole  milk.  The  pork  and  milk  gravy  served  with  boiled 
or  baked  potatoes  makes  a  cheap  and  simple  meal,  but  one  that  most 
people  like  very  much.  Bacon  is  often  used  in  place  of  salt  pork 
in  making  this  dish. 

FRIED   SALT   PORK   WITH    SALT   CODFISH  OR 

"SALT-FISH  DINNER." 
^pound  salt  pork.  2  cups  of  milk  (skim  milk  will 

I  pound  codfish.  do). 
4  tablespoonfuls  flour.  A  speck  of  salt. 

Cut  the  codfish  into  strips;  soak  In  lukewarm  water  and  then  cook 
in  water  until  tender,  but  do  not  allow  the  water  to  come  to  the 
boiling  point  except  for  a  very  short  time,  as  prolonged  boiling  may 
make  it  tough.  Cut  the  pork  into  one-fourth  inch  slices  and  cut  sev- 
eral geishes  in  each  piece.  Fry  very  slowly  until  golden  brown  and 
remove,  pouring  off  the  fat.  Out  of  4  tablespoonfuls  of  the  fat,  the 
flour  and  the  milk  make  a  white  sauce.  Dish  up  the  codfish  with 
pieces  of  pork  around  it  and  serve  with  boiled  potatoes  and  beets. 
Some  persons  serve  the  pork  and  the  fat  from  it  in  a  gravyboat  so 
it  can  be  added  as  relished. 

FLAVORING  VEGETABLES,  HERBS,  SPICES,  ETC. 

Many  flavorings  are  used  in  meat  dishes,  some  of 
which  are  familiar  to  all  cooks — onions,  carrots,  turnips 
and  garlic  being  perhaps  the  most  widely  known.  But- 
ter, too,  may  be  regarded  as  one  of  the  most  common 
seasonings,  and,  of  course,  makes  the  dish  richer.  Meat 
extract  is  also  used  for  flavoring  many  meat  dishes  and 
other  foods,  as  are  also,  though  less  commonly,  similar 
extracts  made  from  clams  or  other' "sea  food."  The 
following  lish  includes  these  with  various  others,  a 
number  of  which  it  is  convenient  to  keep  always  on  hand : 
Onions,  carrots,  green  peppers,  parsnips,  turnips,  toma- 
toes, fresh,  canned  or  dried;  celery  tops  and  parsley, 
either  fresh  or  dried;  sage,  savory,  thjrme,  sweet  mar- 
joram, bay  leaf,  garlic,  lemon  rind,  vinegar,  capers, 
pickles,  olives,  currant  jelly,  curry  powder,  cloves,  p^>^ 
per  corns,  celery  seed,  meat  extract.  Chili  sauce,  pepper 
sauce,  or  some  similar  hot  or  sharp  sauce,  and  some 
kind  of  good  commercial  meat  sauce.  Some  hints  re- 
garding the  use  of  such  flavorings  follow: 

Flavor  of  Fried  Vegetables. — Most  of  the  stews,  soups, 
braised  meals  Jind  pot  roasts  arc  very  much  improved  if  the  flavor- 
ing vegetables  which  they  contain,  such  as  carrots,  turnips,  onions, 
celerjr  or  green  peppers  are  fried  in  a  liltio  ^  before  being  cooked 


36  GOVERNMENT 


with  the  meat.  This  need  not  complicate  ihc  preparation  of  the  meat 
or  increase  the  number  of  utensils  used,  for  the  meat  itself  is  usually 
scared  over  in  fat,  and  the  vegetables  can  be  cooked  in  the  same  fat 
before  the  browning  of  the  meat. 

Onion  Juice. — Cook  books  usually  say  that  onion  juice  should 
be  extracted  by  cutting  an  onion  in  two  and  rubbing  the  cut  surface 
against  a  grater.  Considering  how  hard  it  is  to  wash  a  grater,  this 
method  has  its  drawbacks.  Small  amounts  of  juice  may  be  obtained 
in  the  following  simpler  way:  Peel  the  onion  and  extract  a  few 
drops  of  juice  by  pressing  one  side  with  the  dull  edge  of  a  knife. 

Green  Peppers. — The  flavor  of  green  peppers  gives  an  accept- 
able variety.  The  seed  should  always  be  removed.  The  peppers 
thould  be  chopped  and  added  to  chopped  meat  or  other  meat  dishes. 
Meat  mixed  with  bread  crumbs  may  be  baked  in  the  pepper  shells 
and  the  stuffed  peppers  served  as  a  separate  dish. 

Parsley. — It  is  easy  to  raise  parsley  by  growing  it  in  a  pot  in  the 
kitchen  window  and  thus  fo  have  it  always  on  hand  fresh,  or  the 
leaves  may  be  kept  for  a  long  time  if  sealed  up  in  a  fruit  jar  and 
stored  in  a  cool  place.  Parsley,  mint  and  celery  tops  may  all  be 
dried,  rubbed  into  fine  bits  and  kept  in  air-tight  jars.  Recipes  usu- 
ally say  to  chop  fresh  parsley  with  a  sharp  knife  on  a  board.  But  a 
board  is  a  hard  thing  to  wash  and  a  plate  serves  the  purpose  quite 
as  well. 

Bay  Leaf. — Bay  leaf  is  one  of  the  best  and  at  the  same  time 
one  of  the  most  abused  flavors.  In  small  quantities  it  gives  a  very 
pleasant  flavor  fo  soups  and  gravies,  but  in  large  quantities  it  gives 
a  rank,  resin-like  taste.  Remember  thai  half  of  a  bay  leaf  is  the  al- 
lowance for  3  quarts  of  soup  stock.  1  his  will  indicate  how  small  a 
quantity  should  be  used  for  the  portion  of  gravy  usually  served  at  a 
meal.  With  this  precaution  in  mind,  bay  leaf  may  be  recommended 
as  a  flavoring  for  many  sauces,  particularly  tomato  sauce. 

A  Kitchen  Bouquet. — A  "bouquet"  such  as  is  often  referred 
to  in  recipes  may  be  made  as  follows:     A  sprig  each  of  parsley, 
»avory  and  thyme,  one  small  leaf  of  sage  and  a  bay  leaf.    This  will 
flavor  1  gallon  of  soup  when  cooked  in  it  for  an  hour  and  should  ' 
not  remain  in  it  longer. 

Horseradish. — Horseradish,  like  mustard,  is  more  often  served 
with  meat  than  used  to  flavor  it  during  cooking.  A  very  palatable 
sauce,  especially  good  with  boiled  beef,  is  made  by  adding  grated 
horseradish  and  a  little  vinegar  to  a  little  whipped  cream,  or  as  fol- 
lows: Thicken  milk  with  cracker  crumbs  by  heating  them  together  in 
a  double  boiler,  using  3  lablespoonfuls  of  cracker  crumbs  to  1  y2  cups 
of  milk.  Add  one-third  of  a  cup  of  grated  horseradish,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  J4  leaspoonful  of  salt;  or  thicken  with  but- 
ter and  flour  some  of  the  water  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled,  add 
a  generous  quantity  (1  or  2  tablespoonfuls)  of  grated  horseradish, 
boil  a  short  lime  and  serve.  This  recipe  is  the  most  usual  in  German 
homes  where  the  sauce  is  a  favorite. 

Acid  Flavoring. — Vinegar,  lemon  juice  and  sour  jelly,  like 
currant,  are  often  used  to  flavor  the  thick  gravies  which  are  a  pait  of 
meat  stew  or  which  are  served  with  it.  Vinegar  is  an  old-fashioned 
relish  which  was  often  added  to  bacon  or  salt  pork  and  greens,  pork 
and  beans,  corned  beef  and  cabbage  and  similar  dishes.  These  fla- 
vors combine  well  with  that  of  brown  flour,  but  not  with  onions  or 
other  vegetables  of  strong  flavor.  The  idea  that  vinegar  used  in  small 
quantities  is  unwholesome  seems  to  be  without  foundation. 

Pickles. — Chopped  pickles  are  sometimes  added  to  the  gravy 
served  with  boiled  mutton.  They  are  cheaper  than  capers  and  serve 
somewhat  the  same  purpose.  Chopped  pickles  are  also  very  com- 
monly used  in  sauces  for  Bsh  and  in  many  others  to  give  a  distinctive 
flavor. 

Olives.  Chopped  olives  also  make  a  Welcome  variety  in  meal 

sauce,  and  arc  not  expensive  if  they  are  bought  in  bulk.  They  will 
not  spoil  if  a  little  olive  oil  is  poured  on  ihe  lop  of  the  liquor  in 
which  they  aie  kept.  1  his  liquor  should  always  completely  cover 
them. 

Chil.  Sauce,  Commercial  Meat  Sauces,  etc. — Recipes 
often  may  be  varied  by  ihe  addition  of  a  htlle  Chili  sauce,  tomato 
catsup.  ^'  ^  commercial  rusat  sauce.    These  may  be  called  cmei- 


COOK  BOOK 


gcncy  meat  flavors  and  used  when  it  is  not  convenient  to  prepare 
other  kinds  of  gravies. 

Sausage. — A  little  sausage  or  chopped  ham  may  he  nsfd  in 
chopped  beef. 

Curry  Powder. — This  mixture  of  spices  which  apparently 
originated  in  India,  but  which  is  now  a  common  commercial  product 
everywhere,  is  a  favorite  favoring  for  veal,  lamb  or  poultry.  The 
precaution  mentioned  in  connection  with  bay  leaves,  however,  should 
be  observed.  A  small  amount  gives  a  good  flavor.  It  is  usually 
used  to  season  the  thick  sauces  with  which  meats  are  served  or  in 
which  they  are  allowed  to  simmer.  While  the  term  "curry"  is  usu- 
ally employed  fo  describe  a  particular  mixture  of  spices  made  ap 
for  the  trade,  it  has  another  meaning.  The  word  "curry"  or  "cur- 
ried" are  sometimes  used  to  describe  highly  seasoned  dishes  of  meat, 
eggs  or  vegetables  prepared  by  methods  that  have  come  from  India 
or  other  parts  of  the  East. 

INDIA  CURRY. 

'/4  pounds  veal.  2  onions  or  less. 

J/^  cup  of  butter  or  drippings.        '/t  tablespoonful  curry  or  less. 

Brown  meal  eitf>er  without  fat  or  with  very  little  and  cut  into 
small  pieces. 

Fry  the  onions  in  the  butter,  remove  them,  add  the  meat  and 
curi-y  powder.  Cover  the  meat  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until 
fender.  Serve  with  a  border  of  rice.  This  dish  is  so  savory  thai  it 
can  be  made  to  go  a  long  way  by  serving  with  a  large  amount  of 
rice.  The  two  onions  and  one-half  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder 
are  the  largest  amount  to  be  used.    Many  persons  prefer  less  of  each. 

In  preparing  the  rice  for  this  dish  perhaps  no  better  method  can 
be  given  than  that  in  an  earlier  bulletin  of  this  series.* 

"Wash  I  cupful  of  rice  in  several  waters,  rubbing  ihe  grains  be- 
tween the  hands  to  remove  all  the  dirt.  Put  the  washed  rice  in  a 
stewpan  with  lYi  cupfuls  of  water  and  1  leaspoonful  of  salt.  Cover 
and  place  where  the  water  will  boil.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes,  be- 
ing careful  not  to  let  it  burn.  At  the  end  of  this  time  put  the  stew- 
pan  t^n  a  tripod  or  ring  and  cover  the  rice  with  a  lold  of  cheese- 
cloth. Let  it  continue  to  cook  in  this  manner  an  hour,  then  turn  into 
a  hot  vegetable  dish.  The  rice  will  be  tender,  dry  and  sweet,  and 
each  grain  will  separate.  During  the  whole  process  of  cooking  the 
rice  must  not  be  stirred.  If  a  tablespoonful  of  butler  is  cut  up  aiid 
scattered  over  iho  rice  when  il  has  cooked  twenty  rninulcs  the  dish 
will  be  Very  much  improved." 

1  he  butter  is  not  necessary  when  the  rice  is  scrv'cd  willi  India 
curry,  but  may  be  included  in  dishes  where  less  fat  is  used. 

CURRY  OF  VEAL. 

2  lablespoonfuls  butter  or  drip-      1  pint  milk. 

pings.  I  tablespoonful  flour. 

I  J/2  pounds  veal.  I  leaspoonful  curry  powder. 

J/2  onion,  chopped.  Sail  and  pepper. 

Fry  the  onions  in  the  butter  or  drippings,  remove  and  fry  the  veal 
until  It  IS  brown.  Transfer  the  meat  to  the  double  boiler,  cover  with 
milk  and  cook  until  ihe  meat  is  tender.  Add  the  curry  powder  a 
short  lime  before  the  meal  is  done  and  thicken  the  milk  with  flour 
before  serving. 

SAUCES. 

The  art  of  preparing  savory  gravies  and  sauces  is 
more  important  in  connection  with  the  serving  of  the 
cheaper  meats  than  in  connection  with  tlie  cooking  of 
the  more  expensive. 

There  are  a  few  general  principles  underlying  the 
making  of  all  sauces  or  gravies  whether  the  liquid  used 
is  wa^er,  milk,  stock,  tomato  juice,  or  some  combination 
of  thc^e.  For  ordinary  gravy  2  level  tablespoonfuls  of 
floui'  or  1^2  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  or  aa-row  root 
is  sufficient  to  thicken  a  cupful  of  liquid.  This  is  true 
excepting  when  the  flour  is  browned.  In  this  case  about 
one-half    tablespoonful    more    should    be    allowed,  for 

«U.  6.  £)ejpu  Aer.,  X<'armers  Bui.  266,  p.  «S. 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


37 


browned  flour  does  not  thicken  so  well  as  unbrowned. 
The  fat  used  may  be  butter  or  the  drippings  from  the 
meat,  the  allowance  being  2  tablespoonfuls  to  a  cup  of 
liquid. 

The  easiest  way  to  mix  the  ingredients  is  to  heat  the 
fat,  add  the  flour,  and  cook  until  the  mixture  ceases  to 
bubble,  and  then  to  add  the  liquid.  This  is  a  quick 
method,  and  by  using  it  there  is  little  danger  of  get- 
ting a  lumpy  gravy.  Many  persons,  however,  think  it 
is  not  a  wholesome  method  and  prefer  the  old-fashioned 
one  of  thickening  the  gravy  by  means  of  flour  mixed 
with  a  little  cold  water.  The  latter  method  is,  of  course, 
not  practicable  for  brown  gravies. 

Considering  the  large  amount  of  discussion  about  the 
digestibility  of  fried  food  and  of  gravies  made  by  heat- 
ing flour  in  fat,  a  few  words  on  the  subject  at  this 
point  may  not  be  out  of  order.  It  is  difficult  to  see 
how  heating  the  fat  before  adding  the  flour  can  be  un- 
wholesome, unless  the  cook  is  unskilled  enough  to  heat 
the  fat  so  high  that  it  begins  to  scorch.  Overheated  fat, 
as  has  already  been  pointed  out,  contains  an  acrid  irri- 
tating substance  called  "acrolein,"  which  may  be  readily 
considered  to  be  unwholesome.    It  is  without  doubt  the 


production  of  this  body  by  oveiheating  which  has  given 
fried  food  its  bad  name. 

Seyeral  ways  of  varying  the  flavor  of  gravies  and 
sauces  were  suggested  in  the  preceding  section.  One 
other  should  be  especially  mentioned  here. 

Thfe  flavor  of  browned  flour. — The  good  flavor  of  browned 
flour  is  often  overlooked.  If  flour  is  cooked  in  fat  until  it  is  a 
dark  Brown  color  a  distinctive  and  very  agreeable  flavor  is  oblainecj. 
This  flavor  combines  very  well  with  that  of  currant  jelly,  and  a  little 
jelly  added  to  a  brown  gravy  is  a  great  improvement.  The  flavor 
of  this  should  not  be  combined  with  that  of  onions  or  other  highly 
flavored  vegetables.  A  recipe  for  a  dish  which  is  made  with  brown 
sauce  follows. 

MOCK  VENISON 

Cut  cold  mutton  into  thin  slices  and  heat  in  a  brown  sauce  mads 
according  to  the  following  proportions: 
2  table8f)oonfuls  butter.  2  tablespoonfuls  flour. 

I  tablespoonful  of  bottled  meat      I  tablespoonful  red  currant  jelly. 

sauce     (whichever     is     pre-      1  cupful  water  or  stock. 

f  erred). 

Brown  the  flour  in  the  butter,  add  the  water  or  stock  slowly,  and 
keep  stirring.  1  hen  add  the  jelly  and  meat  sauce  and  let  the  mix- 
ture boil  up  well. 


FISH  A 

VALUE  AND  IJ.SE  OF  FISH. 

As  ordinarily  used,  the  term  fish  includes,  besides  the 
fish  proper,  many  other  water  animals,  as  oysters, 
clams  and  other  mollusks;  lobsters,  crawfish,  crabs  and 
shrimps,  and  turtle  and  tcrripin.  The  term  "sea  food" 
is  often  \ised  to  cover  the  whole  group,  or,  more  pai'- 
ticularly,  salt-water  food  products  as  distinguished  from 
those  of  fresh  water. 

Fish  in  one  form  or  another  is  almost  universally 
recognized  as  an  important  food  material,  and  enters 
to  some  extent  into  the  diet  of  very  many  if  not  the 
majority  of  American  families.  Few,  however,  have 
any  adequate  conception  of  the  great  importance  of  the 
fisheries  of  the  United  States  and  of  the  immense 
amount  of  nutritive  material  which  is  every  year  taken 
from  the  salt  and  fresh  waters  of  this  country. 

From  recent  data  collected  by  the  United  States  Fish 
Commission  it  appears  that  more  than  528,000,000 
pounds  of  fish,  crustaceans,  etc.,  are  annually  taken 
from  the  waters  of  the  New  England  States;  over  819,- 
000,000  pounds  from  the  Middle  Atlantic  States;  over 
106,000,000  from  the  South  Atlantic  States;  113,000,000 
from  the  Gulf  States;  217,000,000  from  the  Pacific 
coast;  96,000,000  from  the  Mississippi  River  and  its 
tributaries,  and  166,000,000  pounds  from  Alaska.  The 
products  of  the  fisheries  of  the  Great  Lakes  exceed  113,- 
000,000  pounds  annually,  and  of  the  minor  interior 
waters  5,000,000  pounds.  In  addition,  thousands  of 
pounds  of  fish  are  annually  caught  by  sportsmen,  but 
statistics  of  the  amount  are  not  available.  In  the  case 
of  the  coast  sections  the  statistics  given  above  include 
only  the  coast  fisheries.  The  interior  fisheries  of  Ver- 
mont are  included  with  those  of  New  England,  the  fish- 
eries of  New  York  and  Pennsylvania  on  the  Great  Lakes 
with  those  of  the  Middle  Atlantic  States,  and  the  fish- 
eries of  the  east  coast  of  Florida  with  those  of  the  Gulf 
States.  The  data  for  the  Great  Lakes  embrace  only 
those  States  not  having  coast  fisheries,  but  include  the 
1  fisher*"''  of  the  Ohio  Fiver  for  Ohio,  Indiana  f il- 


S  FOOD 

linois.  The  figures  for  the  interior  States  are  con- 
fined to  States  not  having  coast  or  Great  Lake  fisheries. 
In  all  sections  the  data  represent  the  products  as  they 
leave  the  bands  of  the  fishermen,  except  that  in  the 
case  of  Alaska  the  figures  include  salmon  after  being 
canned  or  otherwise  prepared  for  the  market.  In  con- 
sidering such  products  as  clams,  scallops  and  oysters 
the  weight  of  the  edible  portion  only  has  been  taken 
into  account. 

The  total  weight  of  the- fish  products  of  the  United 
States  as  they  leave  the  hands  of  the  fishermen  is  about 
2,169,000,000  pounds,  representing  in  round  numbers  as 
the  value  of  the  catch  .$58,000,000.  By  the  processes  of 
canning,  salting,  smoking,  and  otherwise  preserving,  the 
value  of  the  fish  is  very  much  increased. 

Of  the  very  large  quantity  of  fish  annually  placed  on 
the  American  market,  the  greater  part  is  consumed  at 
home,  altiiough  a  portion  is  prepared  in  various  ways 
for  export. 

The  preference  for  fresh-water  or  salt-water  fish  is 
a  matter  of  individual  taste.  Both  are,  so  far  as  known, 
equally  wholesome.  Indeed,  it  may  be  said  that  in  gen- 
eral the  preference  for  one  kind  of  sea  food  or  another 
is  quite  largely  a  matter  of  circumstances.  It  is  notice- 
able that  many  kinds  of  fish  which  are  known  to  be 
good  are  seldom  eaten.  Among  others  may  be  men- 
tioned the  whiting,  or  silver  hake,  and  the  sea  robin. 
The  latter  are  taken  in  enormous  quantities  in  certain 
regions.  This  prejudice  against  certain  fish  is  largely 
local;  for  instance,  skates  are  eaten  on  the  western 
coast  of  the  United  States,  but  until  recently  they  were 
reg'arded  as  of  no  value  in  the  East.  A  few  years  ago 
stui'geon  and  eel  were  not  generally  eaten.  Today  stur- 
geon is  much  prized,  and  in  regions  where  it  was  for- 
merly worthless  commands  a  high  price.  Many  persons 
have  a  prejudice  against  frogs'  legs,  while  others  con- 
sider them  a  great  delicacy.  In  the  United  States  they 
are  now  very  commonly  eaten,  and  frog  raising  for  the 
K  market  is  more  or  less  of  an  industry.    It  is  (!'""'~*-fial 


38  ^      ^       ->      ■  GOVERNMENT 


COOK  BOOK 


if  Americans  ever  eat  any  portion  except  the  legs  of 
frogs,  yet  in  many  regions  of  Europe  the  bodies  ai-e 
also  used.  In  Cuba  and  other  localities  squid  tentacles 
are  eaten,  and  are  undoubtedly  palatable  when  well  pre- 
pared. An  interesting  change  of  opinion  regarding  the 
use  of  a  sea  product  may  be  noted  in  the  case  of  abalone, 
a  large  mollusk  abundant  on  the  California  cost,  •which 
was  formerly  disregarded  as  a  food  product  by  Ameri- 
cans, but  which,  it  is  said,  owing  to  its  use  by  the 
Chinese,  has  become  known  and  is  relished. 

CONDITIONS  WHICH  AFFECT  THE  MARKET 
VALUE  OF  FISH. 

The  market  value  of  fish  is  affected  by  various  con- 
ditions. Among  these  are  the  locality  from  which  they 
come,  the  season  in  which  they  are  taken,  and  the  food 
on  which  they  have  grown.  In  general,  it  may  be  said 
that  fish  from  clear,  cold,  or  deep  water  are  regarded 
as  preferable  to  those  from  shallow  or  warm  water, 
while  fish  taken  in  waters  with  a  rocky  or  sandy  bot- 
tom are  preferable  to  those  from  water  with  a  rauddy 
bottom.  Some  fish,  for  instance  shad,  are  at  their  best 
during  the  spawning  season,  while  others  should  not 
be  eaten  during  this  period.  Those  fish  which  feed  on 
small  Crustacea  and  the  other  forms  of  animal  and 
vegetable  life,  constituting  their  natural  food,  are  prefer- 
able to  those  living  upon  sewage  and  other  matter 
which  may  contaminate  the  waters. 

The  mode  of  capture  also  affects  the  market  value. 
Fish  caught  by  the  gills  and  allowed  to  die  in  tlie  water 
by  slow  degrees,  as  is  the  case  where  gill  nets  are  used, 
undergo  decomposition  very  readily  and  are  inferior  for 
food.  Fish  are  often  landed  alive  and  allowed  to  die 
slowly.  This  custom  is  not  only  inhumane,  but  lessens 
the  value  of  the  fish.  It  has  been  found  that  fish  killed 
immediately  after  catching  remain  firm  and  bear  ship- 
ment better  than  those  allowed  to  die  slowly.  The  qual- 
ity of  the  fish  is  often  injured  by  improper  handling  in 
the  fishing  boats  before  placing  on  the  market.  Im- 
provements in  transportation  facilities  and  in  other  lines 
have  made  it  possible  to  bring  fish  to  market  from  dis- 
tant fishing  grounds  in  good  condition. 

Fresh-water  and  salt-water  fish  alike  are  offered  for 
sale  as  taken  from  the  water,  and  preserved  in  a  num- 
ber of  ways.  In  some  cases  preservation  is  only  to  in- 
sure transportation  to  remote  points  in  good  condition. 
Low  temperature  is  the  means  most  commonly  employed 
for  this  purpose.  By  taking  advantage  of  the  recent 
improvements  in  apparatus  and  methods  of  chilling  and 
freezing,  fish  may  be  shipped  long  distances  and  kept 
a  long  time  in  good  condition. 

The  preservation  of  meat  or  fish  by  methods  of  cold 
storage  has  developed  very  greatly  within  recent  years 
and  has  grown  to  be  a  very  important  industry.  The 
process  depends  for  its  s-iccess  quite  largely  upon  the 
fact  that  the  activity  of  micro-organisms,  which  cause 
putrefactive  and  other  changes  in  food  products,  is 
lessened  by  cold.  In  addition  to  micro-orsranisnas  which 
are  almost  inevitably  present,  being  found  everywhere — 
in  the  air,  in  water,  etc. — fish,  like  other  meats,  nor- 
mally coT^tain  ferments  which  cause  changes  in  com- 
position and  flavor  comparable  in  some  ways  with  those 
caused  by  micro-organisms,  though  they  differ  in  im- 
portant respects.  From  recent  investigations  along  thase 
lines,  the  conclusion  was  reached  that  when  meat  is 
stored  at  the  freezing  point  of  water  (32o  F.)  the 
activity  of  micro-organisms  is  checked,  but  the  action 
of  ferments  normally  present  in  the  meat  still  contin- 
ues, and  it  ripens,  though  it  does  not  decay.  Such  stored 
meat  waa  regarded  as  especially  suited  for  roasting  or 


broiling,  though  not  as  good  as  fresh  meat  for  boiling. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  conclusion  was  reached  that  fish 
caimot  be  satisfactorily  preserved  at  32o  F.,  since  this 
temperature  is  not  sufficient  to  hinder  the  action  of 
the  ferments  present  in  the  fish  flesh,  though  it  checks 
the  action  of  micro-organisms.  The  ferments  acting 
upon  the  tissues  in  which  they  occur  produce  bodies  of 
unpleasant  flavor  and  the  fish  becomes  unpalatable, 
though  it  is  not  in  any  sense  decayed.  To  successfully 
hinder  the  action  of  the  ferments  a  temperature  lower 
that  32"  F.  is  needed.  These  facts  are  in  accord  with 
the  common  practice  of  shipping  fish  frozen. 

It  is  stated  on  good  authority  that  in  commercial 
practice  25°  F.  is  regarded  as  the  proper  temperature 
for  storing  fish  which  has  been  previously  frozen.  For 
dried  fish  the  proper  temperature  is  25°  F.,  for  fresh 
fish  25  to  30°  F.,  for  oysters  33  to  40°  F.,  for  oysters 
in  the  shell  40°.,  and  for  oytsers  in  the  tub  35°  F, 
Oysters  should  not  be  frozen.  It  is  claimed  that  oysters 
may  be  safely  kept  for  six  weeks  at  a  temperature  of 
40°  F.,  and  an  instance  is  recorded  in  which  they  were 
kept  ten  weeks  at  this  temperature  for  experimental 
purposes. 

According  to  the  practice  of  a  successful  firm  dealing 
in  frozen  fish,  the  fish,  as  they  are  unloaded  from  the 
boats,  are  sorted  and  graded  as  to  size  and  quality,  then 
placed  in  galvanized  iron  pans  about  2  feet  long,  covered 
with  loosely  fitting  lids,  and  frozen  by  keeping  them 
twenty-four  hours  at  a  temperature  often  as  low  as  16* 
below  zero.  The  fish  are  removed  from  the  pans  in  a 
solid  cake  and  packed  in  tiers  in  the  storehouse  and 
marketed  frozen.  It  is  said  that  they  may  be  thus  pre- 
served indefinitely,  though  as  a  rule  frozen  fish  are 
only  kept  six  to  eight  months,  being  frozen  in  the 
spring,  when  the  supply  is  abundant,  and  sold  in  the 
winter  or  whenever  fresh  fish  cannot  be  readily  ob- 
tained. Such  frozen  fish  are  coimnonly  shipped  in  bar- 
rels packed  with  broken  ice  in  such  a  manner  that  the 
water  formed  by  the  melting  ice  may  readily  escape. 

The  flavor  of  oysters  is  affected  more  or  less  by  the 
locality  in  which  they  have  gi'own,  those  from  certain 
regions  being  regarded  as  of  very  superior  quality.  The 
season  of  the  year  affects  the  market  value  of  oysters, 
although  it  is  noticeable  that  as  methods  of  transporta- 
tion and  presei-vation  improve,  the  oyster  season  be- 
comes longer.  This  may  also  be  said  of  lobsters,  crabs, 
etc.  Extended  investigations,  including  the  conditions 
affecting  the  growth  and  food  value  of  oysters,  their 
parasites  and  diseases,  etc.,  have  been  carried  on  by  the 
New  Jersey  Experiment  Stations.  These  investigations 
have  shown  that  oysters  rapidly  deteriorate  when  re- 
moved from  the  water,  through  the  fermentative  action 
of  bacteria;  and  that  oysters  in  spawn  deteriorate  more 
rapidly  than  at  any  other  season  at  the  same  tempera- 
ture. However,  oysters  which  are  ready  to  spawn  are 
considered  especially  palatable  if  cooked  soon  after  re- 
moval from  the  sea  bed. 

PREPARING  FISH  FOR  MARKET. 

Fish  are  sold  either  "round,"  i.  e.,  whole,  or  dressed. 
Sometimes  only  the  entrails  are  removed.  Often,  how- 
ever, especially  when  dressed  for  cooking,  the  head,  fins, 
and,  less  frequently,  the  bones  are  removed.  This  entails 
a  considerable  loss  in  weight  as  well  as  of  nutritive 
material.  It  has  been  assumed  that  in  dressing  fish  the 
following  percentages  are  lost:  Large-mouthed  black 
bass,  sea  bass,  cisco,  kingfish,  mullet,  white  perch,  pick- 
erel, pike,  tomcod,  weakfish  and  whitefish,  each  17.5  per 
cent.;  small-mouthed  black  bass,  eel,  Spanish  mackerel, 
gorgy  and  turbot,  each,  13.5  jjer  cent.;  butterfish,  12.6 


GOVERNMENT    COOK  BOOK. 


39 


per  cent.;  shad,  11  per  cent.,  and  brook  trout,  16.5  per 
cent.  More  recent  figures  for  loss  in  weight  in  dress- 
ing are  as  follows:  Bullhead,  50  per  cent.;  buffalo-fish 
and  lake  sturgeon,  40  per  cent.;  carp  and  sucker,  35  per 
cent.;  fresh-water  sheepshead,  23  per  cent.;  grass  pike, 
black  bass,  white  bass,  yellow  perch  and  salmon,  15  per 
cent.,  and  eels,  10  per  cent. 

Large  quantities  of  fish  are  dried,  salted  and  smoked, 
the  processes  being  employed  alone  or  in  combination. 
These  methods  insure  preservation,  but  at  the  same  time 
modify  the  flavor.  Several  fish  products  are  also  pre- 
pared by  one  or  more  of  these  processes.  Caviar,  which 
may  be  cited  as  an  example,  is  usually  prepared  from 
sturgeon  roe  by  salting.  The  methods  of  salting  and 
packing  vary  somewhat  and  give  rise  to  a  number  of 
varieties.  Although  formerly  prepared  almost  exclusive- 
ly in  Russia,  caviar  is  now  made  to  a  large  extent  in  the 
United  States.  In  methods  of  drying  fish  the  Chinese 
are  vei*y  expert,  producing,  among  other  goods,  dried 
oysters,  which  are  said  to  be  palatable  and  of  good 
quality.  Dried  fish  and  fish  products  are  also  important 
in  the  diet  of  the  Japanese. 

When  fish  are  salted  and  cured  there  is  a  consider- 
able loss  in  weight,  due  to  removal  of  the  entrails,  dry- 
ing, etc.  Codfish  lose  60  per  cent,  in  preparation  for 
market.  If  the  market-dried  fish  is  boned  there  is  a 
further  loss  of  20  per  cent.  The  loss  in  weight  of  pol- 
lock from  the  round  to  the  market-dried  fish  is  60  per 
cent.;  haddock,  62  per  cent.;  hake,  56  per  cent.,  and  cusk, 
51  per  cent. 

The  Scandinavians  make  a  number  of  fish  products  in 
which  the  fish  is  allowed  to  ferment,  the  methods  fol- 
lowed being  in  a  way  comparable  with  those  employed 
in  the  manufacture  of  sauerkraut.  In  Java  the  natives 
are  very  partial  to  fish  which  has  undergone  fermenta- 
tion, sometimes  apparently  putrefactive  and  resulting  in 
a  product  which  would  be  considered  entirely  unfit  for 
food  from  a  western  standpoint. 

The  canning  industry  has  been  enormously  developed 
in  recent  years  and  thousands  of  pounds  of  fish,  oysters, 
lobsters,  etc.,  are  annually  preserved  in  this  way.  In 
canning,  the  fish  or  other  material  is  heated  (the  air 
being  sometimes  exhausted  also)  to  destroy  micro-organ- 
isms, and  sealed  to  prevent  access  of  air,  which  would 
introduce  micro-organisms  as  well  as  oxygen.  Thus  the 
canned  material  is  preserved  from  oxidation  and  decom- 
position. The  processes  of  canning  have  been  much  im- 
proved, so  that  the  original  flavor  is  largely  retained, 
while  the  goods  may  be  kept  for  an  indefinite  period. 
Fish,  as  well  as  meat,  is  usually  canned  in  its  own  juice 
or  cooked  in  some  form,  though  sardines  and  some  other 
fishes  are  commonly  preserved  in  oil. 

Various  kinds  of  fish  extract,  clam  juice,  etc.,  are 
offered  for  sale.  These  are  similar  in  form  to  meat 
extract.  There  are  also  a  number  of  fish  pastes  and 
similar  products — anchovy  paste,  for  instance — which 
are  used  as  relishes  or  condiments. 

Oysters  and  other  shellfish  are  placed  on  the  market 
alive  in  the  shell  or  are  removed  from  the  shell  and  kept 
in  good  condition  by  chilling  or  other  means.  Oysters 
in  the  shell  are  usually  transported  in  barrels  or  sacks. 
Shipment  is  made  to  far  inland  points  in  refrigerator 
cars  and  to  Europe  in  the  cold-storage  chambers  of 
vessels.  Large  quantities  of  shellfish  are  also  canned. 
Oysters  are  often  sold  as  they  are  taken  from  the  salt 
water.  However,  the  practice  of  "freshening,"  "fatten- 
ing," or  "floating"  is  very  widespread — that  is,  oysters 
are  placed  in  fresh  or  brackish  water  for  a  short  period. 
They  become  plump  in  appearance  and  have  a  different 
flavor  from  those  taken  directly  from  salt  water.  Care 


should  be  taken  that  the  oysters  are  grown  and  fattened 
in  water  which  is  not  contaminated  by  sewage. 

Lobsiers,  crabs  and  other  ci'ustacea  are  usually  sold 
alive.  Sometimes  they  are  boiled  before  they  are  placed 
on  the  market.  Large  quantities  of  lobsters,  shrimps 
and  crabs  are  canned. 

Turtle  and  terrapin  are  usually  marketed  alive.  Tur- 
tle soup,  however,  is  canned  in  large  quantities.  Frogs 
are  marketed  alive  or  dressed,  and  may  be  eaten  at  all 
seasons,  but  are  in  the  best  condition  in  the  fall  or 
winter.  It  is  said  that  Minnesota  is  the  center  of  the 
frog  industry  in  thfe  United  States,  the  catch  for  a  year 
being  about  5,000,000  frogs,  or  not  far  from  500,000 
d6zen  pairs  of  frogs'  legs,  the  annual  value  of  the  frog 
business  being  upward  of  $100,000. 

NUTRITIVE  VALUE  OF  FISH. 
COMPOSITION  OF  FISH. 

Fish  contain  the  same  kind  of  nutrients  as  other  food 
materials.  In  general  it  may  be  said  that  food  (fish, 
meat,  cereals,  vegetables,  etc.)  serves  a  twofold  purpose: 
It  supplies  the  body  with  material  for  building  and  re- 
pairing its  tissues  and  fluids,  and  furnishes  it  with  fuel 
for  maintaining  body  temperature  and  for  supplying  the 
energy  necessary  for  muscular  work. 

In  a  way  the  body  is  like  a  machine,  with  food  for  its 
source  of  motive  power.  The  body  differs  from  a  ma- 
chine, however,  in  that  the  fuel,  i.  e.,  food,  is  used  to 
build  it  as  well  as  supply  it  with  energy.  Further,  if 
the  body  is  supplied  with  more  food  than  is  needed,  the 
excess  can  be  stored  as  reserve  material,  usually  in 
the  form  of  fat.  In  the  furnace,  fuel  is  burned  quickly, 
yielding  heat  and  certain  chemical  products— carbon 
dioxid,  water  vapor  and  nitrogen.  In  the  body  the  com- 
bustion takes  place  much  more  slowly,  but  in  general 
the  final  products  are  the  same.  The  combustion  of 
nitrogen  is,  however,  not  so  complete  as  in  a  furnace. 
Due  allowance  is  made  for  this  fact  in  calculations  in- 
volving the  question  of  the  energy  which  food  will 
furnish. 

Food  consists  of  an  edible  portion  and  refuse,  i.  e., 
bones  of  fish  and  meat,  .shells  of  oysters,  bran  of  wheat, 
etc.  Although  foods  are  so  different  in  appearance,  chem- 
ical analysis  shows  that  they  are  all  m«de  up  of  a 
comparatively  small  number  of  chemical  compounds. 
These  are  water  and  the  so-called  nutrients,  protein  or 
nitrogenous  materials,  fat,  carbohydrates  and  ash  or 
mineral  matter.  Familiar  examples  of  protein  are  lean 
of  fish  and  meat,  white  of  egg,  casein  of  milk  (and 
cheese)  and  gluten  of  wheat.  Fat  is  found  in  fat  fish 
and  meat,  in  lard,  fat  of  milk  (butter),  and  oils,  such  as 
olive  oil.  Starches,  sugars  and  woody  fiber  or  cellulose 
form  the  bulk  of  the  carbohydrates.  Certain  carbo- 
hydrates are  found  in  meat  and  fish,  although  the  amount 
is  not  large.  The  protein,  fats  and  carbohydrates  are  all 
organic  substances — that  is,  they  can  be  buz-ned  with  the 
formation  of  various  gases,  chiefly  carbon  dioxid  and 
water,  leaving  no  solid  residue.  The  mineral  matters 
will  not  burn,  and  are  left  behind  when  organic  matter 
is  ignited.  By  analysis  the  nutrients  have  been  found 
to  be  made  up  of  a  comparatively  small  number  of  chem- 
ical elements  in  varying  combinations.  These  are  nitro- 
gen, carbon,  oxygen,  hydrogen,  phosphorus,  sulphur,  cal- 
cium, magnesium,  sodium,  poiassium,  silicon,  chlorin, 
fluorin  and  iron.  Doubtless  no  single  nutrient  contains 
all  these  elements.  The  body  tissues  and  fluids  contain 
nitrogen,  and  hence  protein,  which  alone  supplies  nitro- 
gen to  the  body,  is  a  necessary  factor  in  food.   All  the 


40 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


nutrients  except  mineral  matter  contain  carbon,  oxygen 
and  hydrogen  and  can  supply  them  to  the  body.  Protein, 
fat  and  carbohydrates  are  all  sources  of  energy. 

The  value  of  a  food  as  a  source  of  material  for  build- 
ing and  repairing  the  body  is  shown  by  its  chemical  com- 
position— that  is,  by  the  amount  of  digestible  nutrients 
which  it  contains.  Some  other  means  are  necessary  to 
show  its  value  as  a  source  of  energy.  It  is  known  that 
all  energy  may  be  measured  in  terms  of  heat.  In  order 
to  have  some  measure  for  expressing  the  amount  of  heat 
the  calorie  is  taken  as  a  unit.  Roughly  speaking,  this 
is  the  amount  of  heat  required  to  raise  the  temperature 
of  1  pound  of  water  4"  F.  One  pound  of  starch  would; 
if  burned  and  all  the  heat  utilized,  raise  1,900  pounds  of 
water  4°  in  temperature;  or  would  raise  5  gallons  of 
water  from  the  fi-eezing  point  to  the  boiling  point,  but 
would  not  cause  it  to  boil. 

The  number  of  calories  which  different  foods  will 
supply  may  be  determined  by  burning  them  in  an  ap- 
paratus called  a  calorimeter,  or  by  taking  the  sum  of 
the  calories  which  it  is  calculated  the  protein,  fat  and 
carbohydrates  making  up  the  food  would  furnish.  It 


has  been  found  by  experiment  that  the  fuel  value  of  a 
pound  of  protein  as  ordinarily,  burned  in  the  body  is 
1,860  calories;  the  fuel  value  of  a  pound  of  carbohydrates 
is  the  same,  while  that  of  a  found  of  fat  is  2.25  times 
as  great. 

The  value  of  a  food  is  usually  judged  by  several  dif- 
ferent standards.  Thus  it  must  be  digestible  and  pala- 
table, furnish  the  nutrients  needed  by  the  system  in 
proper  amounts,  and  be  reasonably  cheap. 

The  relative  nutritive  value  of  any  food  may  be 
learned  by  comparing  its  composition  and  energy  value 
with  similar  data  for  other  foods.  Table  1  shows  the 
composition  of  a  number  of  food  fishes,  fresh  and  pre- 
served in  a  variety  of  ways;  oysters,  claims  and  other 
mollusks;  lobsters,  shrimps,  crawfish  and  crabs;  turtle 
and  terrapin  and  frogs'  legs.  For  purposes  of  compari- 
son the  analyses  of  a  number  of  kinds  of  meat,  vege- 
tables and  other  common  food  materials,  are  included. 

In  several  cases  the  analysis  of  fish,  whole  and  dressed, 
is  given.  Usually  the  composition  of  the  dressed  fish 
was  computed  from  that  of  whole  fish  with  the  aid  of 
the  figures  for  loss  of  weight  in  dressing  for  market. 


COMPOSITION  OF  FISH,  MOLLUSKS.  CRUSTACEAXS,  ETC. 


y. 

Kind  of  Food  Material. 

Refuse 
one,  skin, 
etc.) 

Salt. 

Water. 

Protein 
V  Factor 
NX6.25).  : 

Fat. 

Carbo-  ' 
lydrates.  ; 

Ash  or  : 
Mineial  i 
Matter.  I 

Total 
utrieiits.  j 
1 

Fuel 
'alue  per 
Pound. 

Per  ct. 

I'erct.lPerct.lPer  ct. 

Perct.|Per  ct. 

IPerct. 

Perct.lCaloriea 

49.5 

37.6 

9.8 

O.S 

13.0 

277 

46.7 

41.9 

10.3 

1  ;::: 

.6 

11.4 

200 

56.0 

34.6 

8.5 

.4    1  .... 

.5 

9.4 

172 

46.4 

.... 

40.1 

11.7 

1.3 

13.7 

263 

5'?.6 

34.7 

10.1 

1.1 

'a 

11.8 

46. S 

42.2 

10^5 

.2 

11.4 

200 

56.1 

34.8 

8.7 

*> 

!6 

9.5 

168 

51.  li 

.... 

37.4 

8.8 

2^2 

.5 

11.5 

249 

55.7 

35.0 

8.4 

.5 

.5 

9.4 

172 

4S.6 

40.3 

10.0 

.6 

11.3 

204 

31.6 

45.8 

11.8 

7.2 

.7 

19  7 

503 

42.8 

40.1 

10.3 

6.3 

.6 

17.2 

410 

37.1 

4S.4 

.7    1  .... 

9 

14.5 

263 

29.9 

58.5 

ii.'i 

0.2 

0.8 

12.1 

209 

9.2 

72.4 

17.0 

.5 

1.0 

18.5 

.327 

40.3 

49.0 

10.1 

.1 

.5 

10.7 

186 

20.2 

57.2 

14.8 

7.2 

.8 

22.8 

558 

57.0 

35.8 

C.4 

.3 

.6 

127 

56.2 

37.0 

6.3 

.2 

....    1  .5 

7.0 

122 

52.2 

39.5 

7.3 

8.1 

145 

51.0 

40.0 

8.4 

'1 

.6 

9.2 

159 

17.7 

61.9 

15.3 

4.4 

.9 

20.6 

454 

42.B 

41.7 

11.2 

.3.9 

.9 

16.0 

363 

40.7 

43.7 

11.6 

3.5 

.7 

15.8 

-  351 

21.4 

51.4 

16.3 

7.2 

1.2 

24.7 

585 

34.6 

44.5 

14.1 

6.2 

1.0 

21.3 

508 

49.0 

3S.2 

9.9 

2.4 

.6 

12.9 

277 

57.9 

31.5 

8.2 

2.0 

.5 

8.9 

231 

54.6 

34.4 

8.8 

1.8 

.5 

11.1 

231 

62.5 

2S.4 

7.3 

1.5 

.4 

9.2 

195 

3.5.1 

50.7 

12.8 

.7 

.9 

J4.4 

259 

35.9 

51.2 

12.0 

.2 

.7 

12.9 

227 

47.1 

42.2 

9.9 

!2 

.6 

10.7 

186 

28.5 

54.3 

15.4 

.6 

1.1 

17.1 

304 

45.5 

39.5 

10.3 

4.3 

.5 

15.1 

358 

53.7 

34.6 

8.6 

2.4 

.7 

11.7 

254 

60.0 

29.9 

7.4 

2.1 

.6 

10.1 

218 

55.9 

35.0 

8.5 

.2 

9.2 

163 

45.3 

43.7 

10.6 

11.6 

204 

10.3 

57.9 

16.7 

14.8 

.9 

32.4 

903 

23.8 

51.2 

15.0 

9.5 

.9 

25.4 

658 

43.9 

.39.6 

10.6 

5.4 

.8 

16.8 

408 

50.1 

35.2 

9.4 

4.8 

.7 

14.9 

363 

71.2 

23.5 

3.8 

1.5 

2S.S 

581 

Vi'.g 

46.1 

10.1 

1.0 

1.0 

12.1 

222 

14.4 

67.4 

15.1 

1.6 

1.2 

17.9 

340 

51.4 

39.6 

8.4 

.3 

.5 

9.2 

163 

59.9 

32.7 

6.9 

.2 

.4 

7.5 

132 

37.9 

48.4 

11.9 

1.3 

.7 

13.9 

268 

4S.1 

40.4 

9.9 

1.1 

.6 

11.6 

222 

.37.5 

44.4 

11.0 

6.2 

.7 

17.9 

449 

39.5 

43.1 

8.9 

8.7 

.8 

IS. 4 

513 

47.7 

37.3 

7.7 

7.5 

.7 

15.9 

445 

41.7 

46.1 

10.4 

1.3 

.7 

12.4 

240 

61.9 

38.0 

8.6 

1.1 

.6 

10.3 

200 

43.6 

.39.4 

12.8 

3.6 

.9 

17.3 

376 

53.5 

32.5 

10.6 

3.0 

14.3 

313 

41.6 

44.6 

10.9 

2.4 

14.0 

295 

19.7 

8.3 

34. S 

13.9 

21.2 

2.1 

37.2 

1,107 

24.9 

17.3 

40.2 

19.0 

,4 

1.2 

20.6 

.•;63 

21.5 

5t.4 

26.3 

.3 

1.7 

28.3 

490 

....   1  3S.1 

30.0 

19.7 

'7.6 

•4.6 

61.9 

1,479 

44'.  i 

1  6.5 

19.2 

20.5 

S.S 

30.2 

726 

Alewife,  whole   

Bass,  large-mouthed  black,  dressed  

Bass,  large-mouthed  black,  whole  

Bass,  small-mouthed  black,  dressed  

Bass,  small-mouthed  black,  whole  

Bass,  sea,  dressed   

Bass,  sea,  whole  

Bass,  striped,  dressed   

Blackfish,  dressed   

Bluefish,  dressed   

Butterfish,  dressed   

Butterflsh,  whole   

Carp  (European  analysis)   

Cod,  dressed   

Cod,  steaks   

Cusk,  dressed   

Eel,  salt-water,  dressed   

Flounder,  common,  dressed   

Flounder,  winter,  dressed   

Hake,  dressed  

Haddock,  dressed   

Halibut,  dressed   

Herring,  whole   

Mackerel,  dressed   

Mackerel,  Spanish,  dressed   

Mackerel,  Spanish,  whole   

Mullet,  dressed   

Mullet,  whole   

Perch,  white,  dressed   

Perch,  white,  whole  

Perch,  yellow,  dressed   

Pickerel,  dressed   

Pickerel,  whole     

Pollock,  dressed   

Pompano,  whole   

Porgy,  dressed   

Porgy,  whole  

Red  grouper,  dressed   

Red  snapper,  dressed   

Salmon,  California  (sections)   

Salmon,  Maine,  dressed   

Shad,  dressed   

Shad,  whole   

Shad,  roe   

Smelt,  whole   

Bturgeon,  dressed   

Tomcod,  dressed   

Tomcod,  whole   

Trout,  brook,  dressed   

Triiiit,  brook,  whole   

Trout,  lake,  dressed   

Turbot,  dressed   

Turbot.  whole   

Weakfish,  dressed   

Weaktish,  whole   

Whiteflsh,  dressed   

Whitefish,  whole   

General  average  of  fresh  fish  as  sold... 
PRESERVED  FISH. 

Mackerel,  Xo.  1,  sailed  

Cod,  salted  and  dried   

Cod,  boneless  codfish,  salted  and  dried. 

Caviai   

Herring,  salted,  smoked  and  dried  


♦includins  salt. 


I 


GOVERNMENT    COOK  BOOK 


41 


COMPOSITION  OF  FISH,  MOLLUSKS,  CRUSTACEANS,  ETC.  — (Continued). 


Kind  of  Food  Material.  "  ,  ,'  '"■"Ti.r.]  ^„:.L2''!]'  v  If' 


PRESERVKD  FISH.— (Continued).  I 

Haddootc,  salted,  smoked  and  dried  

Halibut,  salted,  smoked  and  (Jrled  

Sardines,  catuied   

Salmon,  canned   

Mackerel,  canned   

Mackerel,  salt,  canned   

Tunny,   canned   •  

Haddock,  smoked,  cooked,  canned  

MOLLUSKS. 

Oysters,  solids   ,  

Oysters,  in  shell   

Oysters,  canned   

.Scallops   

Long  clams,  in  shell  

Long-  clams,  canned   

Round  clams,  removed  from  shell  

Round  clams,  in  shell   

Round  clams,  canned   

Mussels  

General  average  of  mollusks  (exclusive  of  canned)  

CRUSTACEANS. 

Lobster,  in  shell   

Lobster,  canned   

Crawfish,  in  shell   

Crabs,  in  shell   .'.  !  

Crabs,  cani\ed   

Shiimp,  canned   

Fresh  abalone   

Canned  abalone,  flesh   

Canned  abalone,  liquid  in  can  

Dried  abalone  

General  average  of  crustaceans  (exclusive  of  canned  and  dried). 

TERRAPIN,  TURTLE,  ETC. 

Terrapin,  in  shell   

Green  turtle,  in  shell   

Average  of  turtle  and  terrapin   

Frogs'  logs   

General  average  of  fish,  mollusks,  crustaceans,  etc  

OTHER  ANIMAL  FOODS. 

Beef,  side,  medium  fat  

Veal,  side   

JIutton,  side   

Average  of  beef,  veal  and  mutton  

Pork,  side   

Chicken   

Turkey   

Milk   

VEGETABLE  FOODS. 

Wheat  flour   

Corn  meal   

Wheat  bread  (from  patent  flour)  

Beans,  dried   

Potato   

Cabbag-e    

Corn,  canned   

Salad  greens   

Apples   

Bananas   

Strav.  berries   

Sugar   


The  above  list  includes  the  more  important  food  fishes, 
water  invertebrates,  etc.  There  are  numbers  of  other 
fish  which  are  eaten  to  a  greater  or  less  extent.  In 
general  it  may  be  said  their  composition  would  be  simi- 
lar to  that  of  the  fishes  included  in  the  table. 

In  a  number  of  cases  cited  in  the  table  above  more 
than  one  specimen  was  analyzed,  although  only  the 
averages  are  given  in  the  table.  In  such  cases  the  sam- 
ples showed  more  or  less  variation  in  total  nutrients, 
but  the  variation  was  due  more  especially  to  the  fats. 
Thus  the  fat  in  the  flesh  of  seven  specimens  of  shad 
ranged  from  6.5  to  13.6  per  cent.;  in  fresh  mackerel 
from  2.2  to  16.3  per  cent.,  and  in  fresh  halibut  from 
2.2  to  10.6  per  cent.  The  protein  and  ash  or  mineral 
matter  remained  practically  the  same  in  all  the  speci- 
mens where  the  wide  fat  variation  was  noticeable,  an 
increase  of  fat  being  accompanied  by  a  decrease  of  water. 

An  extended  study  of  the  chemical  composition  of 
lish  was  recently  carried  on  at  the  zoological  station  at 
Naples  by  Lichtenfelt.  It  was  found  that  the  composi- 
tion of  the  muscular  tissue  changes  periodically  with 
age,  nutrition  and  reproduction.  Under  the  influence  of 
hunger  the  amount  of  water  in  the  flesh  is  increased 
and  the  proportion  of  solids  diminis>5^-'^    '"^e  richer  the 


y. 

Refuse 
one,  skin, 
etc.) 

'  m 
p 

Water. 

Protein 
V  Factor 
NX6.25). 

Fat. 

Carbo- 
lydrates. 

Ash  or 
Mineral 
Matter. 

Total 
utrients. 

o  ;r  ^ 

£  »  S 

■  n> 

Per  ct. 

Perct.lPerct.lPer  ct. 

Perct. 

Per  ct.lPerct.lPerct. 

Calories 

32.2 

1.4 

49.2 

15.8 

.1 

1.0 

16.9 

290 

7.0 

12.0 

46,0 

19.3 

14.0 

1.9 

35.2 

916 

5.0 

53.6  ■ 

23.7 

12.1 

5.3 

41.1 

916 

11.2 

50.S 

19.5 

7.5 

»2.0 

29.0 

658 

1.9 

GS.2 

19.6 

8.7 

1 .3 

29.6 

70S 

19  7 

8.3 

34.8 

13.9 

21  2 

2.1 

37.2 

1,107 

72.7 

21.7 

4!l 

1.7 

27^5 

558 

'i'.i 

6S.7 

22.3 

2.3 

1.6 

26.2 

499 

8S.3 

6.0 

1.3 

3.3 

1.1 

11.7 

222 

Sl'.4 

16.1 

1.2 

.2 

.7 

.4 

2.5 

41 

83.4 

8.8 

2.4 

3.9 

1.5 

16.6 

327 

S0.3 

14.8 

.1 

3.4 

1.4 

19.7 

336 

Vl'.O 

49.9 

5  0 

.6 

1.1 

1.5 

8.2 

1.36 

84. 5 

9.0 

1.3 

2.9 

2.3 

15.5 

26$ 

80.S 

10.fi 

1.1 

5.2 

2.3 

19.2 

331 

67.5 

28.0 

.1 

1.4 

.9 

4.5 

63 

82.9 

10^5 

3.0 

2.8 

17.1 

277 

4C.7 

44.9 

4.6 

!6 

o  •> 

1.0 

8.4 

1.50 

59.4 

34.7 

3.2 

.4 

l.i 

.9 

5.9 

99 

t;i.7 

30.7 

5.9 

.7 

•2 

.8 

7.6 

lU 

77  « 
i  ( .o 

lo.  I 

1.1 

.5 

2..5 

22.2 

381 

86. H 

10.9 

2.1 

.1 

2.5 

45 

52^4 

36.7 

7.9 

.it 

.6 

l.i 

10.9 

191 

80.0 

15.8 

1.5 

.7 

2.0 

20.0 

358 

70.8 

25.4 

1.0 

.2 

2.6 

29.2 

503 

72.8 

22.2 

.3 

3.3 

1.4 

27.2 

501 

73.2 

21.7 

.1 

3.7 

1.3 

26.8 

489 

93.8 

4.4 

.1 

2 

1.5 

6.2 

93 

39.7 

36.0 

.5 

20.S 

2.9 

60.3 

1,079 

iib'i 

''7  8 

3,0 

.5 

1.0 

1.0 

12.0 

220 

75.4 

18.3 

5.2 

.9 

.2 

6.3 

132 

76.0 

19.2 

4.7 

.1 

.3 

5.1 

91 

75.6 

IS.S 

4.9 

.5 

.3 

5.7 

111 

32.0 

56.9 

10.5 

.1 

,7 

11.3 

195 

45.0 

42.8 

9.7 

2.1 

".2 

.7 

12.7 

204 

17.4 

49.4 

I4.S 

18.1 

.7 

.33.6  j 

998 

22.6    1  .... 

55.2 

15.6 

6.3 

.8 

22.-  1 

535 

I9.:j 

43.3 

13.0 

24.0 

.7 

37.r  1 

1,207 

19  4 

49.3 

14.5 

16.1 

.7 

31.3 

913 

11.2 

26.1 

8.3 

51.8 

.4 

63.5 

2,363 

25.9 

47.1 

13.7 

12.3 

.7 

26.7 

i  It 

22.7 

42.4 

16.1 

18.4 

.8 

.35.3 

1  034 

87.0 

4.0 

'h'.i) 

.7 

13.0 

'313 

12.0 

U.4 

1.0 

75.1 

.5 

88.0 

1  610 

12  5 

9.2 

1.9 

75.4 

1.0 

87.5 

1  610 

35  3 

9  2 

1.3 

.53.1 

1.1 

64.7 

L215 

26'0 

12.6 

22.5 

1.8 

59.6 

3.5 

87.4 

1,560 
303 

62.6 

1.8 

.1 

14.7 

.8 

17.4 

15.0 

77.7 

1.4 

.2 

4.8 

.9 

7.3 

122 

76.1 

2.8 

1.2 

19.0 

.9 

23.9 

445 
213 

86.7 

4.2 

.6 

6.3 

2.2 

13.3 

25'6 

63.3 

.3 

10.8 

.3 

11.7 

213 

35.0 

4S.9 

.8 

.4 

14.3 

.6 

16.1 

290 

5.0 

85.9 

.9 

.6 

7.0 
100.0 

.6 

9.1 
100.0 

168 
1,860 

muscles  in  fat,  the  greater  the  loss  as  compared  with 
lean  fish.  The  amount  of  protein  is  also  diminished 
not  only  in  salmon,  but  in  other  sorts  of  fish.  The 
amount  of  insoluble  proteids  is  decreased  while  the  pro- 
portion of  soluble  proteids  may  be  either  increased  or 
lowered  according  to  circumstances.  Muscular  activity 
in  connection  with  hunger  seems  a  condition  especially 
suited  to  induce  an  increase  of  soluble  proteids  in  fish 
flesh. 

It  will  be  -seen  from  the  table  that  fish  is  essentially 
a  nitrogenous  food.  In  this  it  resembles  meat.  Neither 
fish  nor  meat  is  a  source  of  carbohydrates.  Oysters 
and  other  shellfish  contain  some  carbohydrates,  but  the 
foods  which  supply  this  group  of  nutrients  most  abun- 
dantly are  sugar  and  the  cereal  grains.  The  place  of 
fish  in  the  diet,  if  judged  by  its  composition,  is,  there- 
fore, the  same  as  that  of  meat — that  is,  it  supplements 
cereals  and  other  vegetable.s,  the  most  of  which,  as 
wheat,  rye,  maize,  rice,  potatoes,  etc.,  are  deficient  in 
protein,  the  chief  nutrient  in  the  flesh  of  fish.  As  re- 
gards the  relative  nutritive  value  of  meat  and  fish,  At- 
water's  conclusion,  from  a  large  number  of  investiga- 
tions, was  that  the  only  considerable  difference  is  in 
the  proportion  of  water  and  fat  present,  Jhe  flesh  of 
the  fish  having  water  where  meat  has  fat. 


42 


COOK  BOOK 


From  the  standpoint  of  both  nutritive  value  and  pal- 
atability  fish,  according  to  a  recent  German  investi- 
gator, is  an  important  food  product  and,  as  shown  by  his 
experiments,  equal  to  beef  as  a  source  of  energy  in  the 
diet.  It  produces  the  same  sensation  of  satiety  and  this 
persists  for  as  long  a  time.  It  was  found  that  fish 
caused  the  excretion  of  a  smaller  amount  of  uric  acid 
than  meat. 

In  general,  it  may  be  said  that  fish,  meat,  eggs,  milk, 
etc.,  also  cereals  and  vegetable  foods,  all  supply  fat,  the 
amount  varying  in  the  different  materials.  Fish  usually 
contains  less  fat  than  is  found  in  meat.  There  is,  how- 
ever, much  difference  in  the  fat  content  of  the  various 
kinds  of  fish.  They  may,  indeed,  be  roughly  divided 
into  three  classes:  The  first  class  would  include  those 
containing  over  5  per  cent,  fat;  the  second  those  con- 
taining between  2  and  5  per  cent.,  and  the  third,  those 
containing  less  than  2  per  cent.  The  first  group  would 
include  such  fish  as  salmon,  shad,  herring,  Spanish 
mackerel  and  butter-fish;  the  second,  whitefish,  mack- 
erel, mullet,  halibut  and  porgy;  the  third,  smelt,  black 
bass,  bluefish,  white  perch,  weakfish,  brook  trout,  hake, 
flounder,  yellow  perch,  pike,  pickerel,  sea  bass,  cod  and 
ttaddock. 

As  regards  nitrogenous  constituents,  fish  flesh  con- 
tains more  gelatin-yielding  material  (collagen)  and  less 
extractive  material  (meat  bases)  than  meat.  As  is 
■well  known,  the  characteristic  red  color  of  blood  and 
muscular  tissue  is  due  to  the  presence  of  a  substance 
called  hemoglobin.  The  flesh  and  blood  of  fish  contain 
less  of  this  and  allied  coloring  matters  than  meat,  which 
accounts  for  the  light  color  commanly  observed  in  fish 
flesh.  The  flesh  of  some  fishes,  like  salmon,  has  a  de- 
cided color.  It  is  not  due,  however,  to  hemoglobin,  but 
to  the  presence  of  a  special  pigment. 

The  so-called  nitrogenous  extractives  ("meat  ex- 
tract") ,  contained  in  small  quantities  in  fish  as  in  other 
foods,  are  doubtless  useful  in  nutrition,  although  opin- 
ions have  differed  as  to  their  real  function.  Recent 
investigations  indicate  very  strongly  that  flesh  extract- 
ives play  an  important  part  in  stomach  digestion,  as 
they  have  been  shown  to  induce  an  abundant  flow  of 
normal  gastric  juice.  Many  of  the  ordinary  food  ma- 
terials possess  this  property  also,  but  the  flesh  ex- 
tractives seem  to  be  especially  suited  to  the  purpose. 
They  do  not,  it  is  true,  furnish  the  body  much  food  ma- 
terial, but  they  are  nevertheless  important  if  they  nor- 
mally help  it  to  digest  other  foods. 

With  the  exception  of  a  few  kinds  which  are  pre- 
served whole,  preserved  fish,  as  a  rule,  show  a  small 
percentage  of  refuse.  The  percentage  of  actual  nutri- 
ents is  much  larger  than  in  the  corresponding  fresh 
fish,  owing  to  the  removal  of  a  large  part  of  the  refuse 
and  more  or  less  water.  The  gain  in  nutrients  is  most- 
ly represented  by  protein,  which  is  the  most  valuable 
nutrient. 

Dried  fish  is  richer  in  nutritive  material,  pound  for 
pound,  than  fresh  fish,  since  it  has  been  concentrated 
by  evaporation.  It  has  been  found  that  the  average  loss 
in  weight  in  drying  is  about  30  per  cent.,  or  less  than 
the  average  values  for  different  kinds  of  meat.  The 
loss  in  weight  is  chiefly  due  to  the  evaporation  of  water, 
though  in  some  cases  dried  fish  contains  a  little  less 
ether  extract  than  fresh  fish. 

When  foods  are  cooked  there  is,  generally  speaking,  a 
loss  of  weight  owing  to  the  evaporation  of  water,  and 
in  the  ordinary  methods  of  cooking  fish  and  meat  some 
nutritive  material  is  lost  also.  In  I'ecent  experiments 
it  was  found  that  the  water  in  which  fish  was  boiled 
contained  9  to  11  per  cent,  of  the  total  fish  protein. 


Canned  fish,  which  is  in  effect  cooked  fish,  compares 
favorably  as  regards  composition  with  the  fresh  mate- 
rial. Generally  speaking,  the  amount  of  refuse  is  small, 
since  the  portions  commonly  rejected  in  preparation  for 
the  table  have  been  removed  before  canning. 

The  various  kinds  of  shellfish  resemble  meat  and  food 
fishes  in  general  composition.  They  contain,  however, 
an  appreciable  amount  of  carbohydrates.  Oysters  are 
the  most  important  of  the  shellfish,  judging  by  the 
relative  amount  consumed.  Speaking  roughly,  a  quart 
of  oysters  cantains  on  an  average  about  the  same  quan- 
tity of  actual  nutritive  substance  as  a  quart  of  milk,  or 
three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  beef,  or  2  pounds  of  fresh 
codfish,  or  a  pound  of  bread;  but,  while  the  weight  of 
actual  nutriment  in  the  different  quantities  of  food 
materials  named  is  very  nearly  the  same,  the  kind  is 
widely  different.  That  of  the  lean  meat  or  codfish 
consists  of  protein,  the  substance  whose  principal  func- 
tion is  to  make  or  repair  blood,  muscle,  tendon,  bone, 
brain,  and  other  nitrogenous  tissues.  That  of  bread 
contains  considei'able  protein,  but  a  much  larger  pro- 
portion of  starch,  with  a  little  fat  and  other  compounds 
which  supply  the  body  with  heat  and  muscular  power. 
The  nutritive  substance  of  oysters  contains  considerable 
protein  and  energy-yielding  ingredients.  Oysters  come 
nearer  to  milk  than  almost  any  other  common  food  ma- 
tei-ials  as  regards  both  the  amounts  and  the  relative 
proportions  of  nutrients. 

Apparently  as  the  oyster  grows  older,  at  least  up  to 
a  certain  time,  not  only  do  the  proportions  of  flesh  and 
liquids  increase  more  rapidly  than  the  shells,  but  the 
proportion  of  nutrients  in  the  edible  portions  increases 
also;  that  is  to  say,  100  pounds  of  young  oysters  in  the 
shell  appear  to  contain  less  of  flesh  and  of  liquids  than 
100  pounds  of  older  ones,  and  when  both  have  been 
shucked  a  pound  of  shell  contents  from  the  older  oysters 
would  contain  more  nutriment  than  a  pound  from  the 
younger. 

Considering  the  edible  portion  of  the  oyster,  after  it 
has  been  removed  from  the  shell,  the  differences  in 
different  specimens  are  much  greater  than  is  commonly 
supposed.  This  is  apparent  when  a  comparison  is  made 
of  either  the  flesh  (meat)  or  liquids  (liquor)  of  dif- 
ferent specimens,  or  the  whole  edible  portion,  the  meat 
(solids)  and  liquor  together.  The  pei'centage  of  water 
in  the  edible  portion  of  different  specimens  of  oysters 
which  were  analyzed  in  experiments  conducted  for  the 
U.  S.  Fish  Commission  varied  from  about  83.4  to  91.4 
per  cent.,  and  averaged  87.3  per  cent.  This  makes  the 
amounts  of  "water-free  substances,"  i.  e.,  actually  nutri- 
tive ingredients,  vary  from  16.6  to  8.6  and  average  12.7 
per  cent,  of  the  whole  weight  of  the  edible  poi'tion  (shell 
contents)  of  the  animals.  In  other  words,  the  nutritive 
material  in  a  quart  (about  2  pounds)  of  shell  contents 
(solids)  varied  from  2.7.5  to  5.33  ounces. 

With  oysters,  long  clams  and  round  clams  in  the  shell 
there  is  naturally  a  large  percentage  of  waste,  as  the 
shell  constitutes  a  large  proportion  of  the  total  weight. 
The  average  of  34  specimens  of  oysters  in  the  shell,  for 
instance,  shows  only  2.3  per  cent,  of  actual  nutrients. 
Clams  and  mussels  show  a  somewhat  higher  percentage. 

Where  these  various  shellfish  are  purchased  as  "sol- 
ids"— ^that  is,  removed  from  the  shell — a  comparatively 
high  price  is  usually  paid.  Where  they  are  pui'chased 
in  the  shell,  there  is  a  very  large  percentage  of  waste. 
The  conclusion  is,  therefore,  warranted  that,  from  a 
pecuniary  standpoint,  they  are  not  the  most  economical 
of  foods  for  the  consumer.  On  the  other  hand,  they 
have  a  useful  place  in  the  diet  in  helping  to  supply  the 
variety  which  is  apparently  needed  to  insure  the  best 


GOVERNMENT 


workings  of  the  digestive  system.  Often  flavor  has  a 
value  which  cannot  be  estimated  in  dollars  and  cents. 

As  already  explained,  it  is  a  common  practice  of 
oyster  dealers,  instead  of  selling  the  oysters  in  the  con- 
dition in  which  they  are  taken  from  the  beds  in  salt 
water,  to  place  them  for  a  time — forty-eight  hours,  more 
or  less — in  fresh  or  brackish  water,  in  order,  as  the 
oystermen  say,  to  "fatten"  them,  the  operation  being 
also  called  "floating"  or  "laying  out."  By  this  process 
the  oyster  acquires  plumpness  and  rotundity,  and  its 
bulk  and  weight  are  so  increased  as  materially  to  in- 
crease its  selling  value.  The  belief  is  common  among 
oystermen  that  this  "fattening"  is  due  to  actual  gain 
of  flesh  and  fat,  and  that  the  nutritive  value  of  the 
oyster  is  inci-eased  by  the  process.  They  find  that  the 
oysters  "fatten"  much  more  quickly  in  fresh  than  in 
brackish  water.  Warmth  is  so  favorable  to  the  process 
that  it  is  said  to  be  sometimes  found  profitable  to  warm 
artificially  the  water  in  which  the  oysters  are  floated. 
Although  ousters  are  generally  floated  in  the  shell,  the 
same  effect  may  be  obtained  by  adding  fresh  water  to 
the  oysters  after  they  have  been  taken  out  of  the  shell. 
Oysters  lose  much  of  their  salty  flavor  in  'floating," 
and  it  is  a  common  experience  of  oystermen  that  if  the 
"fattened"  oysters  are  left  too  long  on  the  floats  they 
become  "lean"  again. 

It  does  not  seem  probable  that  the  oysters  would 
secure  food  enough  to  make  appreciable  gain  in  weight 
in  the  short  time  in  which  they  remain  in  the  fresh  or 
brackish  water. 

It  is  known  that  when  a  solution  of  salts  is  separated 
by  a  suitable  membrane  from  water  containing  a  lesser 
quantity  of  salts  in  solution  that  the  passage  of  salts 
immediately  begins  from  the  concentrated  to  the  dilute 
solution.  This  is  practically  the  condition  which  exists 
when  the  oyster  is  transfeiTed  from  salt  to  fresh  or 
brackish  water.  The  fleshy  portions  of  the  body  which 
are  inclosed  in  a  membrane  contain  salts  in  solution. 
As  long  as  the- oyster  stays  in  salt  water  the  solution  of 
salts  within  its  body  would  naturally  be  in  equilibrium 
with  the  water  outside.  When  the  oyster  is  brought 
into  fresh  or  brackish  water,  i.  e.,  into  a  more  dilute 
solution,  it  might  be  expected  that  the  salts  in  the  more 
concentrated  solution  within  the  body  would  pass  out 
and  a  larger  amount  of  fresh  water  enter  and  produce 
such  a  distention  as  actually  takes  place  during  float- 
ing. Careful  experiments  have  shown  that  this  sup- 
position is  entirely  correct — that  is,  the  oysters  actually 
gain  in  weight.  This  is  due  largely  to  the  fact  that 
they  lose  mineral  matter  and  gain  a  considerable  amount 
of  water.  At  the  same  time  there  is  a  slight  loss  of 
nutrients.  When  in  their  natural  condition  oysters  con- 
tain from  one-eighth  to  one-fifth  more  nutritive  ma- 
terial than  when  fattened.  In  the  opinion  of  very  many 
consumers  the  improvement  in  appearance  and  flavor 
due  to  the  removal  of  the  salts  more  than  compensates 
for  the  loss  in  nutritive  value.  It  seems  also  to  be  a 
matter  of  common  opinion  that  oysters  keep  better  when 
part  of  the  salts  has  been  removed  by  "floating."  How- 
ever, the  experiments  of  the  New  Jersey  Experiment 
Stations  have  shown  that  freshened  oysters  will  not  re- 
main alive  as  long  as  those  taken  directly  from  salt 
water.  Freshening  increases  very  rapidly  the  rate  of 
weakening  and  decay  (the  life  period  being  reduced 
one-half) . 

Frequently  oysters  become  more  or  less  green  in  color. 
There  is  a  widespread  opinion  that  "greening"  is  in- 
jurious. The  color  has  been  attributed  to  disease,  to 
parasites,  and  to  the  presence  of  copper. 

Experiments  have  shown  that  quite  commonly  the 
green  color  of  American  oysters  at  least  is  due  to  the 


COOK   BOOK    ,  4? 


fact  that  they  have  fed  on  green  plants  of  very  simpla 
structure  which  are  sometimes  found  to  be  abundant  in 
salt  or  brackish  waters.  The  green  coloring  matter  of 
the  plants  is  dissolved  by  the  oyster  juices  and  colors 
the  tissues.  The  opinion  of  those  who  have  investigated 
the  matter  carefully  is  that  such  gi-een  color  is  harm- 
less. It  may  be  removed,  if  desired,  by  placing  the  live 
oysters  for  a  time  in  water  where  the  green  plants  are 
not  abundant.  In  Europe  similar  green  oysters,  called 
"groenbarden"  or  "Marennes,"  are  especially  prized,  and 
to  meet  the  demand  oysters  are  greened  by  placing  them 
as  soon  as  captured  in  sea  water,  where  they  are  kept 
for  months  and  fed  on  a  species  of  seaweed  which  im- 
parts the  coloring  matter  to  the  gills. 

From  carefully  conducted  investigations  it  appears 
that  in  some  cases  green  oysters  owe  their  color  to  the 
presence  of  copper.  Such  oysters  are  not  generaly  con- 
sidered wholesome.  Green  oysters  containing  copper 
differ  in  appearance  from  those  owing  their  green  tint 
to  vegetable  coloiing  matter,  being  grass  green  and 
not  dark  green  in  color  and  having  a  verdigris-like 
slimy  secretion  on  the  folds  of  the  mantle.  It  is  said 
that  after  the  addition  of  vinegar  a  steel  fork  stuck 
into  such  oysters  becomes  coated  with  copper,  and  that 
if  ammonia  is  added  the  oysters  become  dark  blue. 

As  will  be  seen  by  the  figures  in  the  table  above,  fresh 
and  canned  abalone  correspond  quite  closely  to  oyster 
and  clam  products  similarly  prepared.  As  shown  by 
some  tests  carried  on  by  Jaffa  and  Mendel,  abalone 
flesh  is  especially  rich  in  glycogen.  This  fact  js  also 
emphasized  by  the  figures  in  the  table  above,  especially 
those  for  dried  abalone,  which  are  quoted  from  unpub- 
lished analyses  made  by  Jaffa  at  the  California  Ex- 
periment Station.  Generally  speaking,  compared  with 
other  sea  products,  the  abalone  is  a  nutritious  food.  Its 
flavor  is  said,  by  those  who  are  familiar  with  it,  to  be 
excellent.  Large  quantities  of  abalone  are  canned,  the 
flesh  being  cut  into  pieces  of  suitable  size.  Abalone  is 
also  dried  extensively,  the  canned  and  the  dried  products 
finding  a  ready  market  among  the  Chinese. 

Lobsters,  crabs,  shrimps  and  crawfish  are  shown  by 
analysis  to  contain  a  fairly  large  percentage  of  nutrients, 
as  is  especially  noticeable  when  the  composition  of  the 
flesh  alone  is  considered.  They  resemble  the  lean  rather 
than  the  fat  fish  in  composition.  Lobsters  and  crabs 
are  very  much  alike  as  regards  the  structure  of  the 
flesh,  which  in  each  case  consists  of  coarse  dense-walled 
fibers.  Lobsters  and  similar  foods  are  prized  for  their 
delicate  flavor.  Except  in  certain  regions  where  they 
are  very  abundant  and  the  cost  correspondingly  low, 
they  must  be  regarded  as  delicacies  rather  than  as 
staple  articles  of  diet.  This  is,  however,  a  condition 
entirely  apart  from  their  composition.  Judged  by  this 
alone,  they  are  valuable  foods,  and  may  profitably  be 
employed  to  give  variety  to  the  diet. 

Although  the  total  amount  of  turtle  and  terrapin  used 
in  the  United  States  is  quite  large,  the  quantity  is  small 
as  compared  with  the  consumption  of  such  foods  as  fish 
proper  and  oysters.  As  shown  by  their  composition, 
turtle  and  terrapin  are  nutritious  foods,  although  under 
existing  conditions,  they  are  expensive  delicacies  rather 
than  staple  and  economical  articles  of  diet. 

The  total  amount  of  frogs  consumed  per  year  for  food 
is  considerable.  As  shown  by  analysis,  frogs'  legs  con- 
tain a  fairly  high  percentage  of  protein.  Only  the  hind 
legs  are  commonly  eaten.  The  meat  on  other  portions 
of  the  body  is  edible,  although  the  amount  is  small,  and 
is  eaten  in  some  localities.  The  prejudice  which  for- 
merly existed  against  frogs'  legs  as  a  food  was  doubt- 
less based  on  their  appearance  or  some  similar  reason, 
as  they  are  known  to  be  wholesome. 


44  GOVERNMENT 


COST  OF  PROTEIN   AND   ENERGY   IN   FISH  AND 
OTHER  FOOD  MATERIALS. 

As  previously  stated,  the  two  functions  of  food  are 
to  furnish  protein  for  building  and  repairing  the  body 
and  to  supply  energy  for  heat  and  muscular  work.  Al- 
though fish  and  meats  in  general  may  be  regarded  as 
sources  of  protein,  they  nevertheless  furnish  consider- 
able energy.  Indeed,  those  containing  an  abundance  of 
fat  supply  a  lairge  amount  of  energy — that  is,  have  a 
high  fuel  value.  If  a  food  contains  little  pi'otein  or 
energy  and  is  high  in  price,  it  is  evident  that  it  is  really 
expensive.  On  the  other  hand,  a  food  may  be  high  in 
price  but  in  reality  be  cheap,  if  it  furnishes  a  large 
amount  of  protein  or  energy  or  both.  Foods  which  sup- 
ply an  abundance  of  protein  or  energy  or  both  at  a 
reasonable  price  are  evidently  of  the  greatest  impor- 
tance from  the  standpoint  of  economy. 

In  the  following  table  is  shown  how  much  a  pound  of 
protein,  or  1,000  calories  of  energy,  would  cost  when 
supplied  by  a  number  of  kinds  of  fish  and  other  foods 
at  certain  prices,  and  also  the  amount  of  total  food, 
protein  and  energy  which  10  cents'  worth  of  the  fish 
and  other  food  materials  would  furnish, 

COMPARATIVE   COST   OF   PROTEIN   AND   ENERGY  AS 
FURNISHED   BY  A  NUMBER  OF  FOOD  MA- 


TERIALS, AT  CERTAIN  PRICES. 


[     ILind  of  food  material. 

Price  per 
pound. 

Cost  of 
1  pound 
protein. 

Cost  Of  1,000 
calories 
energy. 

Total   wht.  > 
of    food  2 
materia!,  o 

nts  for 

c' 
'S 
p 

•  10  cts. 

>, 
to 

<u 
n 
« 

Ct.s. 

IDlIrs. 

Ct.s. 

Lbs. 

1  I-bs. 

C'l.rle.s 

Codfish,  whole,  fresh.. 

10 

0.90 

48 

1,000|  0.111 

209 

12 

.71 

36 

.833 

.142 

2(4 

12 

1.20 

58 

.833 

.083 

172 

18 

1.18 

40 

.556 

.085 

253 

7 

.44 

23 

1.429 

.229 

437 

10 

.61 

10 

1.000 

.163 

998 

12 

.62 

18 

.833 

.162 

547 

Oysters  (solids,  30  cts. 

qt.). 

15 

2.50 

68 

.667 

.040 

147 

Oysters  (solids,  60  cts. 

qt.). 

30 

5.00 

136 

.333 

.020 

74 

18 

3.05 

12!) 

.556 

.033 

77 

25 

1.52 

26 

.400 

.066 

380 

20 

1.21 

21 

.500 

.083 

475 

14 

.74 

16 

.714 

.136 

615 

5 

.38 

5 

2,000 

.266 

1,862 

Beef,  dried,  chipped  ... 

25 

.95 

33 

.40U 

.106 

303 

20 

1.48 

14 

.500 

.008 

694 

22 

1.46 

25 

.454 

.069 

394 

12 

.90 

10 

.833 

.112 

1.010 

Pork,   smoked   ham  .. 

22 

1.55 

H 

.454 

.064 

729 

Milk  (7  cents  quart).. 

3y 

1.06 

U 

2  857 

.094 

891 

Milk  (6  cents  quart).. 

.91 

10 

3.333 

.110 

1,040 

Wheat  flour   

3 

.26 

2 

3.333 

.380 

5,363 

2 

22 

1 

5.000 

.460 

S,055 

Potatoes  (90  cents  bushel).. 

l'/2 

!83 

6 

6.667 

.120 

2,020 

Potatoes  (45  cents  bushel).. 

% 

.42 

2 

13.333 

.240 

4,040 

2 '72 

1.79 

21 

4.000]  .056 

481 

10 

3  57 

23 

1.000 

.028 

444 

VA- 

5.00 

7 

6.U67 

.020 

1.420 

7 

8.75 

24 

1.429 

.011 

414 

7 

7.78 

42 

1.4291  .013 

210 

In  the  table  the  prices  per  pound  have  been  selected 
from  the  best  data  available.  It  is,  of  course,  impossible 
to  set  any  one  price  which  shall  represent  the  cost  of 
these  materials  per  pound  in  all  sections  of  the  coun- 
try and  at  all  times  of  the  year.  It  is  probable  that 
the  prices  given  represent  more  nearly  those  found  in 
the  eastern  part  of  the  United  States  than  in  the  south- 
ern, central  and  western  sections,  where  some  food  ma- 
terials are  usually  somewhat  cheaper. 

It  is  to  be  noted  that  the  cost  of  1  pound  of  protein 
and  1,000  calories  of  energy  have  no  direct  relation  to 
each  other.  A  pound  of  protein  would  be  sufficient  for 
a  workingman  about  four  days,  while  1,000  calories  of 
energy  would  be  less  than  one-third  the  amount  required 
per  day.  By  dividing  the  cost  of  1  pound  of  protein  by 
4  and  multiplying  the  cost  of  1,000  calories  of  energy 
S.5  results  are  obtained  which  show  approximately  the 


COOK  BOOK 


relative  cost  of  the  protein  and  energy  sufficient  for 
one  day  as  furnished  by  the  different  food  materials. 
Thus  it  would  take,  in  round  numbers,  25  cents'  worth 
of  salt  mackerel  at  10  cents  a  pound  to  furnish  one 
day's  supply  of  protein,  while  the  corresponding  energy 
would  require  38  cents'  worth.  Seven  cents'  worth  of 
flour  would  furnish  the  protein  and  5  cents'  worth  the 
energy  required  for  one  day.  It  is,  course,  understood 
that  no  one  food  material  could  furnish  the  nutrients  in 
their  proper  proportions  for  adults  under  ordinary  con- 
ditions of  health  and  activity.  The  values  expressed  in 
the  table  simply  show  the  relative  value  from  a 
pecuniary  standpoint  of  the  different  foods  as  a  source 
of  protein  on  the  one  hand  and  of  energy  on  the  other. 

It  will  be  seen  from  the  above  table  that  at  25  cents 
a  pound  it  would  take  $1.52  worth  of  sirloin  steak  to 
furnish  a  pound  of  protein,  while  the  same  amount  could 
be  obtained  in  74  cents'  worth  of  beef  round  at  14  cents 
a  pound,  71  cents'  worth  of  cod  steak  at  12  cents  a 
pound,  44  cents'  worth  of  salt  cod  at  7  cents  a  pound,  or 
26  cents  worth  of  wheat  flour  at  3  cents  a  pound.  In 
like  manner  the  co.st  of  1,000  calories  of  energy  would  • 
vary  in  these  same  food  materials  from  36  cents,  as 
furnished  by  the  cod  steaks,  to  2  cents  as  furnished  by 
the  flour. 

It  is  evident  that  at  the  prices  given  the  fruits  are 
the  most  expensive  sources  of  protein,  mollusks  and 
crustaceans  next,  and  the  cheaper  meats  and  fish,  with 
the  cereals,  the  least  expensive.  As  regards  energy,  on 
the  other  hand,  mollusks  and  crustaceans  are  by  far  the 
most  expensive  sources,  followed  l)y  fish  and  many  kinds 
of  meat,  while  the  cereals  are  the  most  economical. 

DIGESTIBILITY   OF  FLSH. 

The  term  digestibility,  as  commonly  employed,  has 
several  significations.  To  many  persons  it  conveys  the 
idea  that  a  particular  food  agrees  with  the  user.  It  is 
also  very  commonly  understood  to  refer  to  ease  or 
rapidity  of  digestion.  One  food  is  often  said  to  be 
preferable  to  another  because  it  is  more  digestible — i.  e., 
is  digested  in  less  time  in  the  stomach,  or  in  apparently 
digested  more  readily.  A  third  meaning,  and  one  which 
is  usually  understood  in  scientific  treatises  on  such  sub- 
jects, refers  to  the  completeness  of  digestion.  For  in- 
stance, two  foods  may  have  the  same  composition,  but, 
owing  to  differences  in  mechanical  condition  or  some 
other  factor,  one  may  be  much  more  completely  digesti- 
ble than  the  other — that  is,  give  up  more  material  to 
the  body  in  its  passage  through  the  intestinal  tract. 

The  agreement  or  disagreement  of  a  particulal  food 
with  any  person  in  normal  health  is  largely  a  matter 
of  individual  peculiarity.  When  foods  habitually  dis- 
agree with  a  person,  and  there  is  reason  to  believe  that 
there  is  pronounced  indigestion,  the  advice  of  a  compe- 
tent physician  is  needed,  since  the  nourishment  of  an 
abnormal  or  diseased  body  is  a  matter  properly  included 
under  the  practice  of  medicine. 

In  so  far  as  ease  or  rapidity  of  digestion  implies  a 
saving  of  energy  to  the  body,  it  may  be  a  matter  of 
importance,  especially  if  the  energy  expenditure  would 
otherwise  be  above  the  normal.  However,  little  is  known 
concerning  relative  rapidity  of  digestion  within  the 
body.  Most  of  the  current  statements  which  refer  to 
this  are  apparently  based  on  experiments  carried  on 
outside  the  body  by  methods  of  artificial  digestion.  Such 
experiments  imitate  as  closely  as  possible  the  condi- 
tions in  the  body,  but  it  is  not  at  all  certain  that  they 
are  exactly  the  same.  Some  experiments  with  man, 
which  were  made  a  good  many  years  ago,  before  ex- 
perimental methods  had  become  fixed,  are  also  often 
quoted,  but  it  is  only  fair  to  say  that  the  popular  inter- 


GOVERNMENT 


45 


pretation  of  the  data  recorded  does  not  agree  in  many 
respects  with  that  of  trained  investigators. 

The  numerous  artificial  digestion  experiments  which 
have  been  made  with  fish  indicate  that  it  is  less  quickly 
digested  than  beef,  being  about  equal  to  lamb  in  this 
respect.  However,  as  compared  with  other  foods,  the 
difference  in  the  digestibility  of  fish  and  meat,  as  shown 
by  these  experiments,  is  not  very  great.  Jn  some  care- 
fully conducted  experiments,  which  were  reported  only 
a  few  years  ago  by  a  German  investigator,  it  was  noted 
that  oysters,  whitefish  and  shellfish,  taken  in  moderate 
amounts,  left  the  stomach  in  two  to  three  hours,  in  this 
respect  resembling  eggs,  milk,  white  bread,  and  some 
other  foods.  Caviar  left  the  stomach  in  three  to  four 
liours,  as  did  also  chicken,  lean  beef,  boiled  ham,  beef- 
steak, coarse  bread,  etc.  Salt  herring  left  the  stomach  in 
four  to  five  hours,  other  foods  in  the  same  class  being 
smoked  tongue,  roast  beef,  roast  goose,  lentil  porridge 
and  peas  porridge.  So  far  as  fish  is  concerned,  the  gen- 
eral deduction  from  these  experiments  was  that  it  is 
more  rapidly  digested  than  meat.  With  respect  to  its 
rapidity  of  digestion  in  the  stomach,  another  German 
investigator  includes  whitefish  in  the  same  class  as  the 
following  animal  foods:  Roast  chicken,  pigeon,  roast 
veal  and  cold  underdone  roast  beef. 

Before  sweeping  deductions  are  made  the  thorough- 
ness with  which  fish  is  digested  should  also  be  taken 
into  account.  A  number  of  experiments  have  been  made 
with  man  to  learn  how  thoroughly  fish  is  digested  and 
to  compare  it  in  this  respect  with  other  foods.  In  these 
experiments  the  food  and  feces  were  analyzed.  Deduct- 
ing the  nutritive  material  excreted  in  the  feces  from 
the  total  amount  consumed  in  the  food  showed  how 
much  was  retained  by  the  body.  It  was  found  that  fish 
and  lean  beef  were  about  equally  digestible.  In  each 
case  about  95  per  cent,  of  the  total  dry  matter,  97  per 
cent,  of  the  protein,  and  over  90  per  cert,  of  the  fat 
were  retained  by  the  body.  Other  experiments  of  the 
same  character  indicate  that  salt  fish  is  less  thoroughly 
digested  than  fresh  fish. 

At  the  Connecticut  (Storrs)  Station  Milner  studied 
the  digestibility  of  fresh  (canned)  salmon,  a  typical  fat 
fish,  and  fresh  cod,  a  typical  lean  fish,  these  materials 
each  constituting  a  considerable  part  of  a  simple  mixed 
diet.  The  calculated  coefficients  of  digestibility  of  the 
salmon  alone  were  protein  96.2  per  cent,  and  fat  97 
per  cent,  while  85.6  per  cent,  of  the  energy  was  avail- 
able. In  the  case  of  the  cod  the  values  for  protein  and 
fat  were  95.9  and  97.4  per  cent.,  respectively,  and  for 
energy  80.3  per  cent.  It  has  been  suggested  that  fat 
fish  is  less  thoroughly  digested  than  lean  fish,  but  in 
these  experiments  the  two  sorts  were  digested  on  an 
average  with  practically  the  same  thoroughness. 

A  number  of  similar  experiments  have  been  made  on 
the  digestibility  of  milk,  eggs,  bread,  potatoes  and  other 
animal  and  vegetable  foods.  From  a  large  amount  of 
data  of  this  sort  some  general  deductions  have  been 
drawn.  Thus,  it  has  been  calculated  that  97  per  cent, 
of  the  protein  and  95  per  cent,  of  the  fat  of  meats,  fish, 
eggs,  dairy  products  and  the  animal  food  of  a  mixed 
diet  are  digested.  Similar  values  are  for  the  protein 
of  cereals  85  per  cent.,  for  the  fat  90  per  cent.,  and  for 
the  carbohydrates  98  per  cent.;  for  the  protein,  fat  and 
carbohydrates  of  vegetables  83,  90  and  95  per  cent.,  re- 
spectively, and  for  the  protein,  fat  and  carbohydrates 
of  the  total  vegetable  food  of  a  mixed  diet  84,  90  and  97 
per  cent.  From  the  available  experimental  data  it  also 
seems  prohable  that  leaner  meats  are  more  easily  di- 
gested than  those  containing  more  fat,  and  the  leaner 
kinds  of  fish,  such  as  cod,  haddock,  perch,  pike,  blue- 
fish,  etc.,  are  more  easily  and  readily  digested  than  the 


fatter  kinds,  as  salmon,  shad  and  mackerel.  Generally 
speaking,  it  has  been  found  that  the  protein  of  vegetable 
foods  as  served  on  the  table  is  less  digestible  than  that 
of  animal  foods.  For  instance,  one-fourth  or  more  of 
the  protein  of  potatoes  and  beans  may  escape  digestion 
and  thus  be  useless  for  nourishment.  This  is  perhaps 
entirely  due  to  the  mechanical  condition  in  which  the 
protein  occurs  in  vegetable  foods;  that  is,  it  is  often 
inclosed  in  cells  which  have  hard  walls  and  are  not 
acted  upon  by  the  digestive  juices.  It  is  ordinarily  as- 
sumed that  the  small  amount  of  carbohydrates  in  meat 
and  fish  is  entirely  digested.  Carbohydrates  other  than 
fiber,  which  make  up  the  larger  part  of  the  vegetable 
foods,  are  very  digestible.  The  fat  in  both  animal  and 
vegetable  foods  differs  in  digestibility  under  varying 
conditions.  No  marked  difference  in  the  digestibility  of 
the  fat  in  the  two  classes  of  food  can  be  pointed  out. 

Persons  differ  in  respect  to  the  action  of  foods  in 
the  digestive  apparatus;  and  Ish,  like  other  food  ma- 
terials, is  subject  to  these  influences  of  personal  pe- 
culiarity. 

The  nutritive  value  of  shellfish,  as  of  other  fish,  de- 
pends to  a  considerable  extent  upon  its  digestibility,  but 
infoi-mation  on  this  point  is  so  limited  that  but  little 
can  be  said  with  certainty  here.  Perhaps  the  most  that 
can  be  said  is  that  while  there  are  people  with  whom 
such  foods  do  not  always  agree,  yet  oysters  belong  to 
the  more  easily  digestible  class  of  foods.  In  a  recently 
published  study  of  the  composition  of  the  oyster  and 
other  problems  connected  with  their  food  value,  the 
statement  is  made  that  the  nutrients  occur  largely  in 
forms  in  which  they  are  readily  assimilated,  as  is  shown 
by  the  fact  that  one-half  of  the  crushed  oyster  and  one- 
fourth  of  the  whole  oyster  is  soluble  in  water.  So  far 
as  can  be  learned  no  experiments  have  been  made  which 
show  how  thoroughly  clams,  crabs  and  other  Crustacea, 
turtle  and  terrapin,  and  frogs'  legs  are  digested. 

PLACE   OF   FISH   IN   THE  DIET. 

The  chief  uses  of  fish  as  food  are  to  furnish  an 
economical  source  of  nitrogenous  nutrients  and  to  sup- 
ply the  demand  for  variety  in  the  diet,  which  increases 
with  the  advance  of  civilization. 

Inspection  of  a  considerable  number  of  dietary  studies 
of  families  of  farmers,  mechanics,  professional  men  and 
others,  carried  on  in  different  regions  of  the  United 
States,  shows  that  about  20  per  cent,  of  the  total  food, 
43  per  cent,  of  the  total  protein  and  55  per  cent,  of  the 
total  fat  of  the  diet  of  the  average  family  is  obtained 
from  meats,  poultry,  fish,  shellfish,  etc.,  together.  Fish, 
shellfish,  etc.,  alone  furnish  less  than  3  per  cent,  of  the 
total  food,  less  than  4  per  cent,  of  the  total  protein,  and 
less  than  1  per  cent,  of  the  total  fat,  showing  to  what 
a  limited  extent  such  food  is  used  in  the  average  house- 
hold. It  is  not  improbable  that  in  communities  where 
fisheries  constitute  the  principal  industry  much  larger 
quantities  are  consumed.  It  has  been  found  that  the 
laborers  employed  in  the  fisheries  in  Russia  consume 
from  26  to  62  ounces  of  fish  daily.  This,  with  some 
bread,  millet  meal  and  tea  constitutes  the  diet  through- 
out the  fishing  season.  These  quantities  are  unusually 
large,  but  no  bad  effects  are  mentioned  as  following  the 
diet. 

There  is  a  widespread  notion  that  fish  contains  large 
proportion  of  phosphorus,  and  on  that  account  is  par- 
ticularly valuable  as  brain  food.  The  percentages  of 
phosphorus  in  specimens  thus  far  analyzed  are  not 
larger  than  are  found  in  the  flesh  of  other  animals  used 
for  food.  But,  even  if  the  flesh  be  richer  in  phosphorus, 
there  is  no  experimental  evidence  to  warrant  the  as- 


46  GOVERNMENT 


sumption  that  fish  is  more  valuable  than  meats  or  other 
food  material  for  the  nourishment  of  the  brain. 

The  opinion  of  eminent  physiologists  is  that  phos- 
phorus is  no  more  essential  to  the  brain  than  nitrogen, 
potassium,  or  any  other  element  which  occurs  in  its 
tissues.  The  value  commonly  attributed  to  the  phos- 
phorus is  based  on  a  popular  misconception  of  state- 
ments by  one  of  the  early  writers  on  such  topics.  In 
discussing  the  belief  that  "fish  contains  certain  ele- 
ments which  are  adapted  in  a  special  manner  to  reno- 
vate the  brain  and  so  to  support  mental  labor"  a  prom- 
inent physiologist  says:  "There  is  no  foundation  what- 
ever for  this  view." 

It  is  well  understood  that  persons  in  varying  condi- 
tions of  life  and  occupation  require  different  kinds  and 
quantities  of  food.  For  the  laboring  man  doing  heavy 
work  the  diet  must  cohtain  a  comparatively  large 
amount  of  the  fuel  ingredients  and  enough  of  the  flesh- 
forming  substances  to  make  good  the  wear  and  tear  of 
the  body.  These  materials  are  all  present  in  the  flesh 
of  animals,  but  not  in  the  requisite  proportions.  Fish 
and  the  leaner  kinds  of  meat  are  deficient  in  materials 
which  yield  heat  and  muscular  power.  When,  however, 
fish  and  meat  are  supplemented  by  bread,  potatoes,  etc., 
a  diet  is  provided  which  will  supply  all  the  demands  of 
the  body.  Where  fish  can  be  obtained  at  low  cost  it 
may  advantageously  furnish  a  considerable  portion  of 
the  protein  required,  and  under  most  conditions  its  use 
may  be  profitably  extended  solely  on  the  plea  of  variety. 

It  should  be  stated  that  most  physiologists  regard  fish 
as  a  particularly  desirable  food  for  persons  of  sedentary 
habits,  because  it  seems  to  be  less  "hearty."  While,  so 
far  as  can  be  learned,  such  statements  do  not  depend 
upon  experimental  evidence,  they  are  thought  to  embody 
the  result  of  experience. 

PREPARING  FISH  FOR  THE  TABLE. 

Fish  is  prepared  for  the  table  in  a  variety  of  ways, 
which  are  described  in  detail  in  books  devoted  to  cookery. 
A  few  words,  however,  may  not  be  inappropriate  on  the 
general  methods  of  cooking  and  possible  loss  of  nutrients 
involved. 

Fish  is  commonly  boiled,  steamed,  broiled,  fried  or 
baked,  or  may  be  combined  with  other  materials  in  some 
made  dish.  When  boiled,  it  is  stated  that  the  loss  in 
weight  ranges  from  5  to  30  per  cent.  One  experimenter 
gives  26  per  cent,  as  the  average.  This  loss  is  largely 
made  up  of  water — that  is,  the  cooked  fish  is  much  less 
moist  than  the  raw.  Little  fat  or  protein  is  lost.  So 
far  as  known,  experiments  have  not  been  made  which 
show  the  losses  by  other  methods  of  cooking.  It  is,  how- 
ever, probable  that  there  would  be  usually  a  very  con- 
siderable loss  of  water. 

In  most  cases  fat  or  carbohydrates  in  the  form  of 
butter,  flour  or  other  material  are  added  to  fish  when 
cooked,  and  thus  the  deficiency  in  fuel  ingredients  is 
made  good.  Boiled  or  steamed  fish  is  often  accompanied 
by  a  rich  sauce,  made  from  butter,  eggs,  etc.  Fried  fish 
is  cooked  in  fat,  and  baked  fish  is  often  filled  with  force- 
meat, and  may  also  be  accompanied  by  a  sauce ;  the  force- 
meat Delng  made  of  bread,  butter,  etc.,  contains  fat  and 
carbohydrates.  In  made  dishes — chowders,  fish  pies, 
salads,  etc. — fat  and  carbohydrates  (butter,  flour,  vege- 
tables, etc.)  are  combined  with  fish,  the  kind  and  amount 
varying  in  the  individual  cases.  Furthermore,  in  the 
ordinary  household,  fish  or  meat  is  supplemented  by 
such  foods  as  bread,  butter,  potatoes,  green  vegetables, 
and  fruit.  That  is,  by  adding  materials  in  cooking  and 
by  serving  other  dishes  with  the  cooked  product  the 
protein  of  the  fish  is  suppleme,nted  by  the  necessary  fat 
and  carbohydrates.  ■  '  v. 


COOK  BOOK 


DAILY  MENUS  CONTAINING  FISH. 

By  taking  into  account  the  chemical  composition  of  a 
mixed  diet  and  comparing  it  with  accepted  dietary 
standards  it  may  be  seen  whether  the  diet  is  actually 
suited  to  the  requirements  of  the  body;  that  is,  whether 
it  supplies  sufficient  protein  and  energy  and  whether 
it  supplies  them  in  the  right  proportions. 

A  number  of  sample  menus  show  that  the  desired 
amounts  of  protein  and  energy  may  be  readily  supplied 
by  a  diet  containing  a  considerable  amount  of  fish. 
These  menus  (which  are  based  in  part  on  dietary 
studies  and  other  food  investigations  of  this  Depart- 
ment covering  a  wide  range  and  extending  over  several 
years)  are  not  intended  as  formulas  for  any  family  to 
follow,  but  simply  as  illustrations  of  the  way  in  which 
menus  containing  the  proper  proportions  of  nutrients 
may  be  made  up.  The  ingenuity  of  the  housewife  and 
her  knowledge  of  the  tastes  of  the  family  will  suggest 
the  special  dishes  and  combinations  suited  to  her  needs. 
It  is  not  assumed  that  any  such  housewife  will  find  it 
convenient  to  follow  exactly  the  proportions  suggested 
in  the  menus.  The  purpose  is  to  show  her  about  what 
amounts  and  proportions  of  food  materials  would  give 
the  required  nutrients. 

In  selecting  these  menus  it  has  been  the  object  to  in- 
clude such  amounts  of  fish  as  might  be  commonly  served 
in  an  ordinary  household  and  not  to  provide  meals  with 
the  largest  possible  quantity  of  fish.  That  the  amount 
which  it  is  possible  to  introduce  in  a  single  meal  may 
be  large  is  shown  by  the  "shore  dinners"  so  common  at 
some  regions  of  New  England,  or  by  the  famous  din- 
ners served  at  Greenwich  on  the  Thames,  with  six 
courses  and  fish  in  every  course. 

With  reference  to  the  following  menus  several  points 
should  be  borne  in  mind.  The  amounts  given  represent 
about  what  would  be  called  for  in  a  family  whose  de- 
mand for  food  would  be  equivalent  to  four  full-grown 
men  at  light  to  moderate  manual  labor,  such  as  ma- 
chinists, carpenters,  mill  workers,  farmers,  truckmen, 
etc.,  according  to  the  usually  accepted  dietary  standards. 
It  is  ordinarily  assumed  that  an  average  man  in  health 
performing  light  to  moderate  muscular  work  requires 
per  day  about  0.25  pound  protein  and  3,050  calories  of 
energy,  the  latter  being  supphed  in  small  part  by  pro- 
tein, but  mostly  by  fat  and  carbohydrates.  Men  in  pro- 
fessional life,  performing  less  muscular  work,  require 
smaller  amounts.  The  commonly  accepted  American 
dietary  standard  for  such  men  calls  for  0.22  pound  pro- 
tein and  2,700  calories  of  energy  in  the  daily  food.  The 
amount  of  mineral  matter  required  is  not  stated,  since 
there  is  little  accurate  information  available  on  this 
point.  A  diet  made  up  of  ordinary  foods  and  supplying 
the  necessary  amounts  of  protein  and  energy  would  un- 
doubtedly supply  an  abundance  of  mineral  matter. 

It  has  been  found  that  women  and  children  consume 
somewhat  less  food  than  men.  The  assumption  is  usual- 
ly made  that,  provided  a  woman  is  engaged  in  some 
moderately  active  occupation,  she  requires  about  eight- 
tenths  as  much  food  as  a  man  with  a  similar  amount  of 
work. 

In  calculating  the  results  of  dietary  studies  (which 
may  be  most  conveniently  expressed  in  amounts  for  c^jne 
man  for  one  day),  it  is  further  assumed  that  a  boy  13 
to  14  years  old  and  a  girl  15  to  16  years  old  also  require 
about  eight-tenths  as  much  food  as  a  man  at  moderately 
active  muscular  labor;  a  boy  of  12  and  a  girl  13  to  14 
years  old,  about  seven-tenths;  a  boy  10  to  11  and  a  girl 
10  to  12  years  old,  about  six-tenths;  a  child  6  to  9  years 
old,  about  five-tenths;  one  2  to  6,  about  four-tenths,  and 
an  infant  under  2  years,  about  three-tenths. 

As  previously  stated,  the  quantities  in  the  sampla 


GOVERNMENT    COOK  BOOK 


'A7 


menus  are  for  four  men  at  moderately  active  muscular 
work  or  an  equivalent  number  of  men,  women  and  chil- 
dren. A  family  might,  for  example,  consist  of  a  me- 
chaijic  and  wife,  with  four  children,  two  girls  of  12  and 
6  and  two  boys  of  10  and  8  years,  respectively.  Here 
it  would  be  assumed  that  the  man  would  be  engaged  at 
moderately  hai'd  manual  work.   According  to  the  above 


factors,  this  family  would  be  equal  in  food  consumption 
to  4  men  at  moderate  muscular  exercise.  In  the  same 
way  a  day  laborer's  family,  consisting  of  a  father  and 
mother  with  three  children  under  7  years  of  age,  would 
be  equivalent  to  three  men  with  moderate  muscular  ex- 
ercise," and  would  require  three-fourths  the  quantities 
indicated  in  the  following  menus: 


MENU  I— FOR  FAMILY  EQUIVALENT 
TO  FOUR  MEN  AT  LIGHT  TO  MOD- 
ERATE MUSCULAR  WORK. 


Am'nt 

Pro- 

Fuel 

Food  Material. 

used. 

tein. 

value. 

BREAKFAST, 

ILbs.oz. 

FoundlCarri's 

Oranges   

2 

0 

0.012 

338 

Omelet  (8  eggs)  — 

1 

0 

.131 

613 

Butter  for  frying 

0 

1 

.001 

216 

1 

4 

.099 

1,466 

Butter   

0 

3 

.002 

647 

Coffee   

.008 

248 

.253 

3,528 

DINNER. 

Boiled  cod,  fresh... 

2 

0 

.340 

658 

HoUandaise  sauce: 

Butter   

0 

4 

.002 

863 

Yolks  of  2  eggs... 

0 

VA 

.013 

135 

Lernon  juice,  etc. 

2 

0 

.036 

606 

Boiled  rice   

1 

8 

.018 

362 

0 

6 

.012 

117 

0 

3 

340 

0 

12 

.069 

887 

0 

3 

.002 

647 

Total   

.492 

4,615 

SUPPER. 

Scalloped  oysters: 

Oysters   

2 

0 

.120 

442 

Crackers   

0 

4 

.027 

464 

Butter   

0 

2 

.001 

431 

Milk   

0 

4 

.008 

78 

French  fried  pota- 

1 

0 

.018 

303 

Lard   

0 

2 

505 

0 

8 

.046 

592 

0 

2 

431 

Sliced  bananas   

1 

0 

.008 

290 

0 

3 

340 

.008 

248 

.237 

4,124 

Total  per  day  

.982 

12,267 

Total  for  one  man 

.246 

3,067 

MENU  II— FOR  FAMILY  EQUIVALENT 
TO    FOUR    MEN    AT    LIGHT  TO 
MODERATE  MUSCULAR  WORK. 


Food  Material. 

BREAKFAST. 
Coafisli  creamed: 

Salt  cod   

Milk   

Butter   

Flour   

Baked  potatoes  .... 

Bread   

Butter   

Coffee   

Total   

DINNER. 
Clam  soup: 

Clams,  round   

Milk   

Butter   

Flour   

Onion,  salt,  pep- 
per, etc  

Roast  lamb,  leg  

Green  peas   

Butter   

Mashed  potatoes  .. 

Bread   

Butter   

Apple  tapioca  pud- 
ding   

Total   

SUPPER. 
Lobster  salad: 

Lobster  meat   

Yolks  of  3  eggs... 

Butter  or  oil  

Milk   

Sugar   

Vinegar,  salt,  pep- 
per, mustard  ... 

Biscuit   

Butter   

Tea   

Total   

Total  per  day  

Total  for  one  man 


Am'nt  Pro-  |  Fuel 
used.     teln.  |  value. 


|Lbs.  oz.|Pound  Cal'ri's 


0 

8 

0.080 

153 

1 

0 

.033 

312 

0 

1 

.001 

216 

0 

1 

.007 

101 

1 

12 

.044 

721 

0 

12 

.069 

887 

0 

4 

.002 

863 

.008 

248 

... 

.244 

3,501 

MENU    III— FOR    FAMILY  EQUIVA- 
LENT TO  FOUR  MEN  AT  LIGHT  TO 
MODERATE  MUSCULAR  WORK. 


Food  Material. 


Am'nt  I  Pro-  I  Fuel 
used.     teln.  value. 


BREAKFAST. 
Breakfast  cereal: 

Cracked  crushed 
wheat   

Milk   

Sugar  »  

Creamed  dried  beef: 

Dried  beef   

Milk   

Butter   


0  12 

1  12 
0  1% 
0  1 


0  12 
0  4 


.049 
.057 
.001 
.007 


.238 
.054 
.001 
.039 
.034 
.001 


.164 
.020 
.002 
.014 


.065 
.003 


158 
545 
324 
101 


1,256 
377 
431 
737 
444 
216 

541 
5,130 


377 
202 
647 
137 
113 


  I 


950 
863 
_248 

_.276  I   ^3,537 

1.004  I  12,168 
.251  I  8,042 


toes   

Butter  (taken  up 

in  frying)   

Bread  

Butter  

Coffee   


Total   

DINNER. 

Halibut  steak   

Mashed  potatoes  .. 
Tomatoes  (or  half 

am't  of  parsnips) 

Bread   

Butter   

Apple  pie   


Total   

SUPPER. 
Salmon  croquettes: 

Canned  salmon  . 

Mashed  potatoes 

Butter   

1  egg   

Prune  sauce   

Muffins   , 

Butter   

Tea  


Total   

Total  per  day  

Total  for  one  man 


|Lbs.  oz.lPound  Cal'ri's 


0  4 
0  6 
0  2 


12 


0  2 
0  12 


2  0 

0  12 

0  3 

1  0 


0.028 
.012 


.198 
.017 
.001 

.018 

.001 
.069 
.002 


.854 

0.268 
.052 

.018 
.069 
.003 
.031 


.441 


.026 
.001 
.016 
.005 
.065 
.002 
.008 


.221 


1.016 


.254 


MENU  IV— FOR  FAMILY  EQUIVALENT  TO  FOUR  MEN  AT  LIGHT  TO  MODERATE  MUSCULAR  WORK. 


Food  Material. 


Am'nt 
used. 


Pro-  1  Fuel 
tein.  I  value. 


BREAKFAST. 
Breakfast  cereal: 

Cracked  crushed 
wheat   

Milk   

Sugar   

Broiled  salt  mack'l 

Boiled  potatoes   

Hot  rolls   

Butter   

Coffee   


Total 


Lbs.  oz.|Pound|Carri's 


0.028 
.012 

' '  '.igi 

.018 
.067 
.002 


.326 


410 
117 
227 

1,524 
303 

1,017 
647 
248 


4,493 


Food  Material. 


DINNER. 
Broiled  beefsteak 
Baked  potatoes  .., 

Onions   , 

Celery    , 

Bread   

Butter  

Baked  apples: 

Apples  

Sugar   

Milk   


Total 


Am'nt 
used. 


Lbs.  oz. 
1  8 
1 
2 
1 
0 
0 


Pro- 
tein. 


Pound 
.248 
.038 
.028 
.009 
.069 
.002 


.003 
'.668 


.405 


Fuel 
value. 


Cal'ri's 
1,424 
618 
398 
68 
887 
647 

213 
227 
78 


4,560 


Food  Material. 


SUPPER. 
Oyster  stew: 

iVt.  pints  oysters, 

1  pint  milk  

Butter   

Crackers   

Bread   

Butter   

Choo'late  layer  cake 
Tea  


Am'nt  Pro-  Fuel, 
used.     tein.  value. 


Lbs.  oz.  I  Pound 


Total   I 

Total  per  day  | 

Total  for  one  man| 


Cal'ri's 

276 
312 
215 
716 
592 
431 
801 

 248 

....  I     .237  I  3,691 
....  I     .968  I  12,644 
3,161 


.075 
.033 
.001 
.042 
.046 
.001 
.031 


I  .242 


The  weights  of  fish,  meats  and  vegetables  given  in 
the  menus  are  for  these  articles  as  found  in  the  market. 
The  fish  and  meats  will  include,  as  a  rule,  more  or  less 
bone,  and  the  vegetables  considerable  skin  and  other 
parts,  which  are  inedible  and  are  rejected.  In  estimat- 
ing the  nutrients  allowance  is  made  for  what  has  been 
found  to  be  the  average  proportion  of  bone  in  different 
cuts  of  meats.  In  vegetables  it  is  assumed  that  from 
one-sixth  to  one-fifth  will  be  rejected  in  preparing  them 
for  the  table.  The  weights  of  the  breakfast  cereals  are 
for  these  in  the  dry  condition  before  cooking. 

The  values  given  for  tea  or  coffee  are  obtained  by 
taking  account  of  the  sugar  and  milk  or  cream  consumed 
with  them.  The  infusion  of  tea  or  coffee  contains  little, 
if  any,  nutritive  material.  The  value  of  tea  and  coffee 
in  the  diet  depends  upon  their  agreeable  flavor  and  mild 
stimulating  properties. 

The  calculations  of  the  quantities  of  nutrients  con- 


tained in  the  different  foods  are  based  upon  the  average 
percentage  composition  of  these  materials,  some  of  the 
data  being  included  in  the  table  of  composition  on  page 
40  and  the  remainder  in  a  previous  publication  of  the 
United  States  Department  of  Agriculture. 

The  fats  and  carbohydrates  in  the  different  food  ma- 
terials are  not  shown  in  the  menus,  since  the  quantity  of 
protein  and  the  fuel  value  of  the  food  are  the  values 
which  are  of  special  interest.  The  fuel  value  of  the 
fats  and  carbohydrates  is,  of  course,  included  in  the 
figures  for  fuel  value  given. 

In  the  menus  only  such  an  amount  of  each  food  is  in- 
dicated as  might  be  completely  consumed  at  each  meal. 
Of  course,  in  the  ordinary  household  usually  a  rather 
larger  quantity  of  the  different  dishes  will  be  pre- 
pared than  will  be  consumed  at  one  meal,  but  the  thrifty 
housekeeper  will  see  to  it  that  what  is  not  used  at  ona 
meal  will  be  utilized  for  anothais  v^-^^r-r-'-— -n-^  


48 


COOK  BOOK 


It  is  not  expected  that  each  meal  or  the  total  food  of 
each  individual  day  will  have  just  the  amounts  of  pro- 
tein and  fuel  ingredients  that  make  a  well-balanced  diet. 
The  body  is  continually  storing  nutritive  materials  and 
using  them.  It  is  a  repository  of  nutriment  which  is 
being  constantly  drawn  upon  and  as  constantly  resup- 
plied.  It  is  not  dependent  any  day  upon  the  food  eaten 
that  particular  day.  Hence  an  excess  one  day  may  be 
made  up  by  a  deficiency  the  next  or  vice  versa.  Health- 
ful nourishment  requires  simply  that  the  nutrients  as  a 
whole  during  longer  or  shorter  periods  should  be  fitted 
to  the  actual  needs  of  the  body. 

It  will  be  seen  that  in  each  of  the  menus  suggested 
fish  occurs  in  at  least  two  meals.  However,  in  no  case 
is  the  amount  greater  than  experience  has  shown  may 
commonly  occur  in  actual  dietaries.  It  is  not  the  inten- 
tion to  suggest  that  a  diet  containing  such  quantities  of 
fish  be  followed  every  day,  but  rather  to  show  that  fish 
may  be  readily  combined  with  other  food  materials  to 
supply  the  protein  and  energy  required.  While  it  may 
profitably  be  used  more  frequently  in  many  families 
than  is  at  present  the  case,  the  quantity  used  is  a  mat- 
ter to  be  settled  by  the  demands  of  individual  taste. 

The  menus  attempt  to  cover,  as  regards  fish  and  other 
materials,  a  range  in  variety  and  combination  such  as 
might  be  found  in  an  average  well-to-do  household. 
Other  dishes,  such  as  fish  soups,  chowders,  fish  salads, 
etc.,  might  have  been  included  also,  and  would  naturally 
find  a  place  on  the  table  of  a  family  fond  of  fish  and 
fish  products.  Individual  preferences  vary  so  much  that 
no  combination  which  could  be  selected  would  meet 
them  all. 

Nothing  has  been  said  of  the  cost  of  the  food  used  in 
the  menus.  All  foods  vary  in  price  in  different  locali- 
ties, and  this  is  especially  the  case  with  fish.  In  gen- 
eral it  may  be  said  that  a  large  variety  of  fruits,  green 
vegetables,  etc.,  if  it  is  necessary  to  purchase  them,  in- 
creases the  cost  of  a  diet  out  of  proportion  to  the  nutri- 
tive material  furnished.  Such  foods,  hov.'cver,  are  valu- 
able, since  they  possess  agreeable  flavor  and  so  render 
the  diet  appetizing.  It  is  also  generally  believed  that 
the  acids,  salts  and  similar  materials  in  fruits  and 
vegetables  are  of  value  in  maintaining  the  body  in  health. 
The  income  of  the  purchaser  should  determine  how 
varied  the  diet  may  be. 

POSSIBLE  DANGERS  FROM  EATING  FISH. 

In  view  of  the  statements  of  a  popular  natui-e  which 
have  been  made  on  the  dangers  from  eating  poisonous 
fish  or  from  ptomaines  contained  in  fish,  a  few  words 
summarizing  the  actual  knowledge  on  these  topics  seem 
desirable. 

There  are  several  species  of  fish  which  are  actually 
poisonous.  Few  of  them,  however,  are  found  in  the 
United  States,  and  the  chances  of  their  being  offered 
for  sale  are  very  small.  Such  fish  are  mostly  confined 
to  tropical  waters. 

Fish  may  contain  parasites,  some  of  which  are  in- 
jurious to  man.  These  are,  however,  destroyed  by  the 
thorough  cooking  to  which  fish  is  usually  subjected. 

Ptomaines  are  poisonous  bodies  due  to  the  action  of 
micro-organisms.  They  are  chemical  compounds  of 
definite  composition  and  are  elaborated  by  micro-organ- 
isms breaking  down  the  complex  ingredients  of  animal 
tissues,  just  as  alcohol  is  due  to  the  action  of  yeasts 
breaking  down  sugar,  or  as  acetic  acid  is  formed  from 
the  alcohol  of  cider  or  wine  by  the  yeast-like  plant  which 
produces  vinegar,  and  which  we  call  mother  when  we 
find  it  collected  in  masses.  The  formation  of  ptomaines 
quite  generally,  although  not  always,  accompanies  putre- 
faction (being  greatest,  it  is  said,  in  its  early  stages), 


and  therefore  great  care  should  be  taken  to  eat  fish 
only  when  it  is  in  perfectly  "good  condition.  Fish  which 
has  been  frozen  and,  after  thawing,  kept  for  a  time  be- 
fore it  is  cooked,  is  especially  likely  to  contain  injurious 
ptomaines.  . 

Decomposition  can  often  be  recognized  by  the  odor 
of  the  fish,  especially  when  it  has  progressed  to  any 
considerable  extent.  There  are  laboratory  tests  for 
showing  decomposition  at  various  stages  and  for  indi- 
cating the  presence  of  ptomaines. 

In  general  it  may  be  said  that  fish  should  be  con- 
sidered unfit  for  food  when  the  eyes  have  lost  their 
sheen,  the  cornea  is  somewhat  cloudy,  the  gills  pale  red, 
when  blubber  shows  at  the  gills,  when  the  scales  are  dry 
or  easily  loosened,  or  when  the  meat  is  so  soft  that  if 
pressed  with  the  finger  the  indentation  remains.  Lay- 
ing fish  in  water  has  been  recommended  as  a  means  of 
judging  of  their  condition.  Those  which  sink  may  be 
considered  undecomposed  and  wholesome,  while  those 
which  are  decomposing  will  float. 

Canned  fish  should  never  be  allowed  to  remain  long 
in  the  can  after  opening,  but  should  be  used  at  once. 
There  is  some  possibility  of  danger  from  the  combined 
action  of  the  can  contents  and  oxygen  of  the  air  upon 
the  lead  of  the  solder  or  the  can  itself.  Furthermore, 
canned  fish  seems  peculiarly  suited  to  the  growth  of 
micro-organisms  when  exposed  to  the  air. 

Finally,  fish  offered  for  sale  should  be  handled  in  a 
cleanly  manner,  and  stored  and  exposed  for  sale  under 
hygienic  conditions. 

A  kind  of  poisoning  called  mytilism,  usually  very 
fatal  in  its  results,  has  been  sometimes  observed  to  fol- 
low the  eating  of  clams.  The  reason  for  this  illness  is 
not  definitely  known,  though  it  is  attributed  to  a  poison- 
ous body  sometimes  found  in  clams,  especially  in  the 
liver.  Just  why  this  poisonous  body  occurs  is  not  known, 
but  it  is  probably  due  to  a  disease  or  some  abnormal 
condition;  furthermore,  it  has  been  noted  that  clams 
from  some  regions  are  quite  uniformly  poisonous.  It  is 
said  that  poisonous  clams  are  less  pigmented  (lighter 
with  radiate  streaks)  than  wholesome  clams,  which  are 
uniformly  darkly  pigmented,  and  that  the  shells  of  the 
unwholesome  clams  are  more  friable  and  broader,  and 
that  the  liver  is  larger,  softer  and  richer  in  pigment 
and  fat.  A  well-known  writer  on  the  subject  recom- 
mends that  the  public  should  be  warned  against  buying 
dead  clams — that  is,  those  which  do  not  close  the  shell 
when  taken  out  of  the  water — and  that  as  a  further 
precaution  the  liver  and  the  broth  should  not  be  eaten, 
if  cases  of  mytilism  have  recently  occurred  locally  or 
there  is  any  other  reason  to  suspect  the  clam  supply. 

Slight  or  serious  poisoning  has  also  been  known  to 
follow  the  eating  of  oysters,  though  fortunately  Ameri- 
can oysters  have  been  seldom  found  to  be  a  cause  of  such 
illness.  As  in  the  case  of  clams,  the  reason  for  such 
illness  is  not  definitely  known,  but  it  is  probably  due 
to  the  occasional  presence  in  oysters  of  some  poisonous 
body  due  to  disease  or  a  similar  cause.  An  European 
investigator  reached  the  conclusion  that  the  oysters  are 
generally  diseased  in  the  summer  months,  though  the 
nature  of  the  disease  was  not  learned.  He  found  that 
the  diseased  oysters  possessed  a  characteristic  milky 
appearance  and  that  the  liver  was  much  enlarged,  gray 
and  soft.  It  does  not  seem  probable  that  American 
oysters  are  generally  diseased  during  the  summer 
months,  as  many  who  live  in  the  oyster-producing  re- 
gions eat  them  throughout  the  year,  yet  in  view  of  the 
fact  that  bad  results  from  eating  shellfish  are  more 
frequently  noticed  in  the  summer  than  in  the  cooler 
months,  possibly  because  they  spoil  more  readily,  omit- 
ting them  from  the  bill  of  fare  during  the  summer 


GOVERNMENT    COOK    BOOK  " 


49 


seems  a  wise  precaution.  Oysters  dead  in  the  shell  or 
those  which  are  decomposed  should  under  no  circum- 
stances be  eaten.  When  removed  from  the  water  good 
oysters  close  the  shell,  move  when  touched,  are  of  norma! 
size  and  color,  and  have  a  clear  fluid  inside  the  shell. 
In  the  case  of  oysters  dead  when  taken  from  the  water, 
the  shells  remain  open,  while  those  which  are  decom- 
posed are  discolored  and  very  soft,  have  a  stale  odor 
and  show  a  blacki.sh  ring  on  the  inside  of  the  shell. 

Oyster  beds  should  be  free  from  sewage,  pollution,  and 
oysters  when  "floated"  or  "fattened"  should  never  be 
placed  in  water  contaminated  by  sewage.  Severe  ill- 
ness and  death  have  resulted  in  many  cases  from  eating 
raw  oysters  contaminated  with  sewage  containing 
typhoid  fever  germs. 


It  is  only  just  to  say  that  the  dangers  from  parasites, 
micro-organisms,  ptomaines  and  uncleanly  surroundings 
are  not  limited  to  fish.  Under  conditions  wliich  favor 
the  growth  of  the  micro-organisms,  moat  and  other 
highly  nitrogenous  animal  foods  undergo  decomposition 
resulting  in  the  formation  of  ptomaines.  Animal  para- 
sites may  be  acquired  from  flesh  of  various  kinds  if  not 
throughly  cooked,  provided,  of  course,  the  flesh  is  in- 
fested. This  danger  is  reduced  by  proper  inspection. 
Vegetable  foods  also  may  become  contaminated  in  vari- 
ous ways.  The  importance  of  measures  to  secure  pure 
and  wholesome  food  can  hardly  be  overstated.  The  best 
interests  of  the  people  undoubtedly  demand  a  strict  and 
impartial  supervision  by  public  officers  of  the  sale  of 
food  products. 


EGGS  AND  THEIR  USES  AS  FOOD 


Perhaps  no  article  of  diet  of  animal  origin  is  more 
commonly  eaten  in  all  countries  or  served  in  a  greater 
variety  of  ways  than  eggs.  Hens'  eggs  are  most  com- 
mon, although  the  eggs  of  ducks,  geese  and  guinea  fowls 
are  used  to  a  greater  or  less  extent,  guinea  eggs  being 
prized  for  their  delicate  flavor.  More  rarely  turkeys' 
eggs  are  eaten,  but  they  are  generally  of  greater  value 
for  hatching.  In  South  Africa,  where  ostrich  raising 
is  an  important  industry,  the  eggs  are  used  as  food  to 
some  extent  and  are  said  to  be  of  excellent  quality  for 
cookery.  Their  food  value  is  also  recognized  in  those 
regions  in  the  United  States  where  ostriches  are  raised. 

The  eggs  of  some  wild  birds  are  esteemed  a  delicacy. 
Plover  eggs  are  prized  in  England  and  Germany,  while 
in  this  country  the  eggs  of  sea  birds  have  long  been 
gathered  for  food.  On  the  eastern  shore  of  Virginia 
eggs  of  the  laughing  gull  are  frequently  eaten,  and  the 
eggs  of  gulls,  terns  and  herons  were  a  few  years  ago 
gathered  in  great  quantities  along  the  coast  of  Texas. 
Thousands  of  eggs  of  gulls  and  murres  have  been  gath- 
ered annually  on  the  Farallone  Islands,  off  the  coast 
of  California. 

Other  eggs  besides  those  of  birds  are  sometimes  eaten. 
Turtle  eggs  are  highly  prized  in  most  countries  where 
they  are  abundant.  They  were  once  more  commonly 
eaten  in  America  than  now,  possibly  owing  to  the  more 
abundant  supply  in  former  times.  The  eggs  of  the 
terrapin  are  usually  served  with  the  flesh  in  some  of 
the  ways  of  preparing  it  for  the  table.  Fish  eggs,  es- 
pecially those  of  the  sturgeon,  are  eaten  in  lai-ge  quan- 
tities, preserved  with  salt,  under  the  name  of  caviar. 
Shad  roe  is  also  a  familiar  example  of  the  use  of  fish 
eggs  as  food.  Mention  may  also  be  made  of  the  use 
of  the  eggs  of  alligators,  lizards,  serpents,  and  some  in- 
sects by  races  who  lack  the  prejudices  of  Western 
nations.  However,  in  general,  the  term  eggs,  when  used 
in  connection  with  food  topics,  refers  to  the  eggs  of 
birds,  usually  domestic  poultry,  and  is  so  used  in  this 
bulletin. 

The  appearance  of  an  egg — the  shell  with  its  lining 
of  membrane,  inclosing  the  white  and  yolk — is  too  fa- 
miliar tu  need  any  discussion.  The  physiological  struc- 
ture of  tJie  egg  is  perhaps  less  familiar.  A  fertile  egg 
contains  an  embryo  and  is  at  the  same  time  a  store- 
house of  material  for  the  development  and  growth  of 
the  young  individual  from  the  embryo,  until  it  has 
reached  such  a  stage  that  life  is  possible  outside  the 
narrow  limits  of  the  shell.   The  embryo  is  situated  quite 


close  to  the  yolk,  which  furnishes  the  nutritive  mate- 
rial for  its  early  development,  the  white  being  used  later. 

For  convenience,  birds  may  be  divided  into  two  groups : 
(1)  Those  in  which  the  young  are  hatched  full-fledged 
and  ready  in  a  great  measure  to  care  for  themselves, 
and  (2)  those  in  which  the  young  are  hatched  unfledged 
and  entirely  dependent  upon  the  parents  for  some  time. 
Domestic  poulti'y  are  familiar  examples  of  the  first 
group;  robins  and  sparrows  of  the  second.  The  eggs 
of  the  two  classes  differ  materially  in  composition.  It 
seems  evident  that  more  nutritive  material  is  needed 
proportionally  in  the  first  case  than  in  the  second,  since 
the  growth  is  continued  in  the  egg  until  the  bird  reaches 
a  more  advanced  stage  of  development.  The  quite 
marked  differences  in  composition  of  the  two  sorts  of 
eggs  have  been  shown  by  chemical  studies,  but  need  not 
be  referred  to  further  in  the  present  discussion. 

Since  in  all  cases  the  egg  is  designed  to  furnish  the 
sole  source  of  material  for  growth  and  development  of 
the  young  individual  for  a  considerable  time,  it  is  evi- 
dent that  it  must  contain  all  the  elements  required; 
that  is,  that  it  must  be  a  perfect  food  for  the  purpose 
intended.  Milk  is  another  familiar  example  of  animal 
food  containing  all  the  elements  of  a  complete  food  for 
the  young  and  growing  individual.  Milk  and  eggs  are 
frequently  spoken  of  as  perfect  foods  on  this  account. 
The  designation  is,  however,  misleading,  for,  although 
it  is  true  that  they  contain  all  the  required  elements  for 
the  growth  and  maintenance  of  the  young  bird  or  the 
young  mammal,  as  the  case  may  be,  the  elements  are 
not  in  the  right  proportion  for  the  sole  nourishment  of 
an  adult  individual.  The  food  value  of  eggs  is  discussed 
in  greater  detail  beyond. 

COOKING  AND  SERVING  EGGS. 

The  methods  of  serving  eggs  alone  or  in  combination 
with  other  food  materials  are  very  numerous.  Cooked 
in  various  ways  they  are  a  favorite  animal  food,  taking 
the  place  of  meat  to  a  certain  extent,  while  raw  eggs, 
usually  seasoned  in  some  way,  are  by  no  means  infre- 
quently eaten.  Boiled  eggs  are  often  used  for  garnish- 
ing or  ornamenting  different  foods.  Eggs  are  com- 
bined with  other  matei'ials  in  various  ways  in  many 
made  dishes.  They  are  used  in  making  cakes  and  such 
foods  to  improve  their  flavor,  color  and  texture,  while 
in  custards,  creams,  etc.,  they  thicken  the  material  and 
give  it  the  desired  consistency.  The  white  of  the  egg  is 
also  employed  in  making  icings  and  confectionery.  Well- 


50  GOVERNMENT 


beaten  or  whipped  egg  white  is  used  to  leaven  many 
forms  of  cakes  and  similar  foods,  as  well  as  to  improve 
the  flavor.  The  beaten  white  incloses  air  in  small  bub- 
bles, which  become  distributed  throughout  the  mass  of 
dough  in  mixing.  The  heat  of  cooking  expands  the  air 
and  makes  the  walls  of  the  air  bubbles  firm,  so  that  the 
porous  structure  is  retained.  The  power  to  inclose  and 
retain  air  when  beaten  varies,  being  greatest  in  the 
fresh  egg  and  much  lessened  in  packed  or  old  eggs. 
Convenient  leavening  powders  have  lessened  the  num- 
ber of  eggs  used  for  this  purpose.  Sponge  cake,  how- 
ever, is  a  familiar  example  of  food  so  leavened.  This 
use  of  eggs  explains  some  of  the  recipes  in  old  cookei*y 
books  which  call  for  such  large  numbers  of  eggs.  These 
uses  are  all  familiar;  the  reasons  for  them  are  doubt- 
less seldom  thought  of. 

There  are  several  simple  ways  of  cooking  eggs  which 
are  very  commonly  followed.  Thus,  the  egg  in  the  shell 
is  cooked  by  immersion  in  hot  or  boiling  water  or  is 
less  commonly  roasted.  After  removal  from  the  shell 
the  egg  is  cooked  in  hot  water  or  in  hot  fat.  In  the 
latter  case  it  may  or  may  not  be  beaten  or  stirred. 
Combined  with  other  materials  to  form  various  made 
dishes,  eggs  are  boiled,  baked,  steamed  or  fried,  as  the 
case  may  be.  The  total  number  of  methods  of  serving 
and  preparing  eggs  is  very  large,  but  in  nearly  every 
case  it  will  be  found  that  the  method  of  preparation  is 
only  a  more  or  less  elaborate  modification  of  one  of  the 
simple  methods  of  cooking. 

Changes  in  weight,  which  are  dependent  on  the  meth- 
ods of  cooking,  are  commonly  noted  when  foods  are  pre- 
pared for  the  table,  losses  in  weight  being  due  in  gen- 
eral to  the  volatilization  and  gains  to  the  absorption 
of  water.  Carpiaux  found  that  when  eggs  were  cooked 
for  an  hour  in  a  steam  bath  the  loss  in  weight  was  in- 
significant, ranging  from  0.03  to  0.1  gram  per  egg. 
Camus  found  that  with  boiled  eggs  there  was  more  or 
less  loss,  owing  to  evaporation  of  a  little  water  through 
the  porous  shell.  If  the  egg  cooled  in  the  water,  it 
absorbed  a  little  of  it  and  gained  in  weight.  The  method 
of  manipulation  must  have  some  effect  on  the  changes 
in  weight,  for  Lebbin  reports  that  boiled  eggs  gained  on 
an  average  about  0.5  gram,  probably  because  a  little 
water  passed  through  the  shell.  From  the  tests  as  a 
whole  it  is  evident  that  the  changes  in  weight  in  all 
cases  are  small  and  not  sufficient  to  modify  the  food 
value  to  any  appreciable  extent. 

When  cooked  in  different  ways  there  are  marked 
changes  in  the  appearance  and  structure  of  eggs.  As 
ordinarily  applied,  the  term  "boiled  eggs"  refers  to  eggs 
cooked  in  the  shell  in  hot,  though  not  necessarily  boil- 
ing, water.  The  resulting  product  varies  greatly,  ac- 
cording to  the  length  of  time  the  cooking  is  continued, 
the  method  of  procedure,  etc.  Perhaps  the  most  usual 
household  method  of  "boiling  eggs"  is  to  immerse  them 
for  a  longer  or  shorter  time  in  boiling  water.  An  egg 
placed  f^t  boiling  water  not  over  2  minutes  \vill  have  a 
thin  coating  of  coagulated  whk*  next  the  skin,  the  re- 
mainder will  be  milky,  but  not  solid,  while  the  yolk, 
though  warm,  will  be  entirely  fluid.  This  stage  may  be 
called  "very  soft  boiled."  If  the  egg  is  kept  in  boiling 
water  2  minutes,  or  a  little  over,  the  white  becomes 
entirely  coagulated.  The  egg  thus  cooked  may  be  termed 
"waxy."  If  the  boiling  is  extended  to  3  minutes  or  so, 
the  egg  shows  a  tendency  to  rise  in  the  water  and  will 
be  solid  throughout,  i.  e.,  "solid  boiled."  If  the  boiling 
in  continued  up  to  10  minutes  or  longer,  the  "hard- 
boiled"  egg  results.  The  white  of  such  an  egg  is  hard 
and  elastic  and  the  yolk  crumbles  readily.  All  these 
changes  are  due  principally  to  the  more  or  less  complete 


COOK  BOOK 


coagulation  and  hardening  .of  the  albumen  of  the  egg 
by  heat. 

Numerous  experiments  have  been  made  to  show  the 
changes  which  actually  take  place  when  egg  albumen  is 
heated.  If  the  egg  white  is  gently  warmed,  no  change 
is  noted  until  the  temperature  reaches  134°  F.,  when 
coagulation  begins.  White  fibers  appear,  which  become 
more  numerous,  until  at  about  160°  F.  the  whole  mass 
is  coag-ulated,  the  white  almost  opaque,  yet  it  is  tender 
and  jelly-like.  If  the  temperature  is  raised  to  212°  F- 
(the  temperature  of  boiling  water)  and  continued,  the 
coagulated  albumen  becomes  much  harder  and  eventual- 
ly more  or  less  tough  and  horn-like;  it  also  undergoes 
shrinkage.  When  the  whole  egg  is  cooked  in  boiling 
water,  the  temperature  of  the  interior  does  not  imme- 
diately reach  212°  F.,  several  minutes  being  probably 
required.  It  has  been  found  by  experiment  that  the 
yolk  of  egg  coagulates  firmly  at  a  lower  temperature 
than  the  white. 

The  changes  in  the  albumen  noted  above  suggest  the 
idea  that  it  is  iiot  desirable  to  cook  eggs  in  boiling  water 
in  order  to  secure  the  most  satisfactory  product.  Those 
who  have  given  attention  to  the  science  as  well  as  the 
practice  of  cookery  recommend  "soft-cooked,"  "medium- 
cooked"  and  "hard-cooked"  eggs,  all  of  which  are  cooked 
at  a  temperature  lower  than  212°  F.  In  soft-cooked 
eggs,  properly  prepared,  the  white  resembles  a  soft, 
thick  curd,  while  the  yolk  is  fluid.  Except  for  a  sug- 
gestion of  rawness,  there  will  be  little  flavor,  provided 
fresh  eggs  are  used.  Medium-cooked  eggs  are  more 
thoroughly  cooked  than  those  just  mentioned,  the  re- 
sults being  secured  by  long  cooking  or  by  a  somewhat 
higher  temperature.  The  white  is  soft  and  tender  and 
the  yolk  slightly  thickened.  The  favor  (which  is  de- 
veloped by  cooking)  is  more  pronounced  than  that  of  a 
soft-cooked  egg  and  is  generally  considered  more  agree* 
able. 

When  an  egg  is  covered  with  boiling  water  in  a  bain- 
marie  or  double  boiler,  and  the  temperature  of  the  water 
in  the  outer  vessel  maintained  at  180-190°  F.  for  30  to 
45  minutes,  the  hard-cooked  egg  results,  with  the  yolk 
dry  and  mealy  and  the  white  solid,  yet  tender. 

The  directions  given  for  preparing  soft-cooked,  me- 
dium-cooked and  hard-cooked  eggs  vary.  The  methods 
described  in  standard  cookery  books  without  doubt  give 
the  desired  results  if  sufficient  care  is  exercised.  The 
chief  difficulty  encountered  by  most  cooks  is  to  secure 
uniform  results,  especially  with  soft-cooked  and  medium- 
cooked  eggs.  It  must  be  remembered  that  such  results 
cannot  be  expected  when  conditions  vary.  The  time  of 
cooking,  the  amount  of  water  used,  the  number,  size 
and  freshness  of  the  eggs,  and  the  kinds  of  vessels  used 
are  important  factors.  Thus,  eggs  which  have  been 
kept  in  an  ice  chest  require  more  heat  to  warm  them 
before  cooking  begins  than  do  those  which  have  been 
kept  at  room  temperature.  Again,  so  apparently  trivial 
a  detail  as  the  sort  of  vessel  used  (whether  earthen  or 
metal)  or  the  place  where  the  vessel  stands  during  cook- 
ing may  produce  very  different  results.  Many  persons 
prefer  to  have  eggs  cooked  at  table  in  a  chafing  dish 
or  other  suitable  vessel.  In  such  cases  the  conditions 
may  be  controlled  with  comparative  ease  and  uniform 
results  obtained  with  a  little  practice  if  care  is  observed. 

The  following  methods  of  preparing  soft-cooked  and 
medium-cooked  eggs  have  been  found  to  give  uniform 
results  in  laboratory  tests  at  the  University  of  Illinois: 
Using  a  granite-ware  stewpan  of  1  quart  capacity,  1 
pint  of  water  was  heated  over  a  gas  flame;  when  the 
water  boiled  the  gas  was  turned  off  and  an  egg  which 
had  been  kept  in  a  refrigerator  was  dropped  into  the 


GOVERNMENT 


water.  Without  disturbing  the  vessel  it  was  covered 
closely  and  the  egg  allowed  to  remain  in  the  water  6 
minutes.  It  was  then  soft  cooked.  As  shown  by  tests, 
when  the  egg  was  dropped  into  the  water  the  tempera- 
ture fell  almost  at  once  to  185°  F.  and  then  slowly  to 
170-171°  F.  If  the  egg  remained  in  the  water  8  min- 
utes it  was  medium  cooked,  the  temperature  of  the 
water  at  the  end  of  the  period  having  fallen  to  162- 
164°  F. 

Uniform  results  can  be  obtained  in  the  kitchen  as  well 
as  in  the  laboratory  if  sufficient  attention  is  given  to 
details.  Bearing  clearly  in  mind  the  end  desired,  each 
cook  must  experiment  for  herself,  as  it  is  impossible  to 
give  directions  which  will  apply  to  all  cases. 

The  same  changes  which  have  been  noted  above  as 
taking  place  in  egg  yolk  and  white  when  heat  is  applied 
In  preparing  boiled  eggs  take  place  when  other  methods 
of  cooking  are  followed,  though  they  are  not  always 
apparent. 

Poached  or  dropped  eggs  are  removed  from  the  shell 
and  then  cooked  in  water.  Thudichum  recommends  the 
use  of  salted  water  to  which  a  very  little  vinegar  has 
been  added.  The  reason  for  this  is  perhaps  that  acetic 
acid  (vinegar)  tends  to  precipitate  albumen — that  is,  to 
prevent  a  loss  due  to  some  of  the  egg  being  dissolved  in 
the  water.  Flavor  may  also  be  one  of  the  objects  sought. 

Fried  eggs  are  generally  cooked  in  a  flat  pan,  in  a 
little  hot  fat,  oil  or  butter,  and  may  be  either  soft  or 
hard,  according  to  the  length  of  time  employed  in  the 
process.  Eggs  are  also  occasionally  baked  in  much  the 
same  manner  that  they  are  fried. 

The  omelet  is  generally  regarded  as  one  of  the  most 
appetizing  forms  in  which  eggs  can  be  served.  It  con- 
sists of  the  beaten  egg  with  a  little  milk,  water,  and 
cream  or  melted  butter  added,  quickly  cooked  in  a  little 
fat  or  butter  in  a  suitable  pan,  and  folded  over  so  that 
it  may  be  turned  out  of  the  pan  in  a  half-round  form. 
Some  cooks  insist  that  the  best  omelets  are  made  by 
using  hot  water  instead  of  milk  or  cream.  The  hot  water 
is  stirred  into  the  egg  yolk  in  the  proportion  of  1  table- 
spoonful  to  an  egg.  Scrambled  eggs  resemble  an  omelet 
in  method  of  preparation,  but  no  effort  is  made  to  pre- 
serve the  characteristic  form  and  appearance  of  the 
omelet.  Generally  speaking,  lightness  is  desired  in  an 
omelet  and  thorough  mixing  in  scrambled  eggs.  The 
former  is  secured  by  beating;  the  latter  by  stirring. 
Omelets  are  sometimes  made  with  the  addition  of  various 
materials,  such  as  parsley,  jams,  etc.  Many  so-called 
omelets  are  made  in  which  flour  is  used.  These  are 
more  properly  pancakes,  and  vary  very  greatly  accord- 
ing to  the  ingredients  used.  Such  dishes,  as  well  as 
sweet  omelets,  etc.,  are  treated  of  in  cookery  books,  as 
are  also  many  other  ways  of  serving  eggs,  which  are  in 
principle  the  same  as  those  already  noted,  but  in  which 
the  final  appearance  is  more  or  less  modified. 

The  foods  in  which  eggs  are  combined  with  other  ma- 
terials range  from  a  simple  custard  or  cake  to  the  most 
elaborate  of  the  confectioner's  products.  In  all  such 
dishes,  as  previously  noted,  eggs  are  used  to  give  con- 
sistency, color,  flavor  or  lightness. 

Eggs  are  especially  rich  in  protein  (the  nitrogenous 
ingredient  of  food).  This  material  is  required  by  man 
to  build  and  repair  the  tissues  of  the  body.  Some  en- 
ergy is  also  furnished  by  protein,  but  fats  and  carbohy- 
drates supply  the  greater  part  of  the  total  amount 
needed.  Combining  eggs  with  flour  and  sugar  (carbohy- 
drates) and  butter,  cream,  etc.  (fat),  is  perhaps  an 
unconscious  effort  to  prepare  a  food  which  shall  more 
nearly  meet  the  requirements  of  the  body  than  either 
ingredient  alone.  When  eggs,  meat,  fish,  cheese  or  other  - 


COOK  BOOIC  5f 


similar  foods  rich  in  protein  are  eaten,  such  other  foods 
as  bread,  butter,  potatoes,  etc.,  are  usually  served  at  the 
same  time,  the  object  being,  even  if  the  fact  is  not 
realized,  to  combine  the  different  classes  of  nutrient^ 
into  a  suitable  diet.  The  wisdom  of  such  combination,  as 
well  as  of  other  generally  accepted  food  habits,  was 
proved  long  ago  by  practical  experience.  The  reason 
has  been  more  slowly  learned. 

As  previously  stated,  egg  white  when  heated  at  the 
temperature  of  boiling  water  for  a  considerable  time 
becomes  hard  and  contracts.  This  explains  the  curdling 
of  custards,  shrinkage  and  toughening  of  omelets,  souf- 
fles, meringues,  sponge  cake  and  similar  mixtures.  The 
firm  coagulation  of  albumen  at  212°  F.  explains  the 
use  of  egg  white  for  clarifying  coffee,  soup  or  other 
liquids.  The  albumen,  which  is  mixed  with  the  liquid 
before  boiling  coagulates  and  incloses  the  floating  par- 
ticles, leaving  the  liquor  clear.  When  eggs  are  removed 
from  the  shell,  a  little  of  the  white  usually  clings  to  the 
inner  surface  unless  it  is  scraped.  Such  eggshells  are 
often  used  for  clarifying  purposes  instead  of  the  whole 
egg.  The  clarifying  properties  are,  of  course,  due  to 
the  egg  white  and  not  to  the  shells. 

The  uses  of  eggs  for  other  purposes  than  food  are 
numerous.  Large  quantities  of  egg  white  are  used  In 
the  manufacture  of  albumen  paper  for  photographic  pur- 
poses, and  the  egg  white  and  yolk,  and  products  made 
from  them,  are  very  important  in  the  manufacture  of 
many  different  articles.  . 

DESCRIPTION  AND  COMPOSITION  OF  EGGSd  ' 

Size. — The  eggs  of  different  kinds  of  domestic  poul- 
try vary  in  size  as  well  as  appearance,  and  there  is  also 
a  considerable  range  in  the  size  of  eggs  of  different 
breeds;  thus,  hens'  eggs  rang  from  the  small  ones  laid 
by  bantams  to  the  large  ones  laid  b  ysuch  breeds  as 
Light  Brahmas.  On  an  average  a  hen's  egg  is  2.27 
inches  in  length  and  1.72  inches  in  diameter  or  width 
at  the  broadest  point,  and  weighs  about  2  ounces,  or  8 
eggs  to  the  pound  (1.5  pounds  per  dozen).  Genei'ally 
speaking,  the  eggs  of  pullets  are  smaller  than  those  of 
old  hens,  those  of  ducks  somewhat  larger  than  hens*  eggs, 
while  those  of  turkeys  and  geese  are  considerably  larger. 
Guinea  eggs,  on  an  average,  measure  1.87  by  1.5  inches, 
are  rather  pointed  at  one  end,  and  weigh  about  1.4 
ounces  each,  or  17  ounces  to  the  dozen.  Goose  eggs 
weigh  about  5.5  to  6.7  ounces  each,  or  about  5  pounds 
to  the  dozen — that  is,  more  than  three  times  as  much 
as  hens'  eggs.  The  eggs  of  wild  birds  are  said  to  be 
smaller  than  those  of  the  same  species  when  domes- 
ticated. Wild  ducks'  eggs  are  said  to  be,  on  an  aver- 
age, 1.97  to  2.17  inches  in  diameter',  and  domestic  ducks' 
eggs  2.36  to  2.56  inches. 

Composition. — The  shells  of  hens'  eggs  constitute 
about  11  per  cent.,  the  yolk  32  per  cent,  and  the  white 
57  per  cent,  of  the  total  weight  of  the  egg.  The  pro- 
portion of  white  and  yolk  varies  somewhat  with  dif- 
ferent breeds.  According  to  recent  investigations  the 
proportion  of  yolk  is  greatest  in  bantam  eggs,  and  in 
general  is  greater  with  those  breeds  of  poultry  which 
are  best  suited  for  fattening  than  with  other  breeds. 
As  shown  by  tests  made  at  the  New  York  State  Ex- 
periment Station,  white-shelled  eggs  have  a  somewhat 
heavier  shell  than  brown-shelled  eggs.  The  shell  of  a 
duck's  egg  constitutes  about  14  per  cent,  of  the  total 
weight,  and  that  of  a  plover  egg  10  per  cent.  The  fol- 
lowing table  shows  the  composition  of  hens'  eggs,  raw 
and  cooked,  brown  shelled  and  white  shelled,  and  of  egg 
white  and  yolk,  as  well  as  the  composition  of  the  egg 
^( whole  egg  white  ftiwi  yoi^  9&  *^  guinea  iow^  — 


53 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


goose,  turkey,  plover,  eta,  also  evaporated  eggs  and 
egg  substitutes.  For  purpose  of  comparison,  the  com- 
position of  beefsteak  and  several  other  familiar  animal 
foods  and  of  wheat  flour  and  potatoes,  is  also  added. 

AVERAGE    COMPOSITION    OP    EGGS.    EGG  PRODUCTS, 
AND  CERTAIN  OTHER  FOODS. 


Whole  egg  as  purchased 

WlTOIe  egg,  edible  port'n 

White   

Yolk   

Whole  egg  boiled,  edi- 
ble portion   

Whlte-ghelled  eggs  as 
purcliased   

Brown-shelled  eggs  as 

purchased   

Duck: 

Whole  egg  as  purchased 
Whole  egg,  edible  port'n 

White   ,  

Yolk   

Goose: 
Whole  eg-g  as  purchased 
Whole  egg,  edible  port'n 

White   

Yolk  .,  

Turkey: 
AVhole  egg  as  purchased 
Whole  egg,  edible  port'n 

White   

Yolk   

Guinea  fowl: 
Whole  egg  as  purchased 
Whole  egg,  edible  port'n 

White   

Yolk   

Plover: 
Whole  egg  as  purchased 
Whole  egg,  edible  port'n 

Fresh  water  turtle  eggs.. 

Sea  turtle  eggs   

Salted  duck  eggs  

Evaporated  hens'  eggs: 

Whole  egg   

White   

Yolk   

Egg  substitute   

Pudding  (cust'd)  powd'r 

Cheese  as  purchased  

Sirloin  steak  as  purch's'd 

Sirloin  steak,  edible  port'n 

Milk  

Oysters  in  shell  as  pur- 
chased   

Oysters,  edible  portion... 

Wheat  flour   

Potatoes  as  purchased  

Potatoes,  edible  portion.. 


P.ct.|P.ct.| 
11.21  65.5 
....1  73.7 
86.2 
49.6 


10.7: 
10.9 
13.7 


73.3 

65.6 

64.8 

60 
70.5 
87.0 
45.8 

59.7 
69. B 
86.3 
44.1 


13.8|  63.5 
78.7 
86.7 
48.3 


P.ct. 
11.9 
13.4 
12.3 
15.7 


P.ct.lP.ct. 

9.3|   

10.51   

.21  

S3.3   


14.2 


16.9 


9.6 


i  12.8 


81.4 


30.0 


60.5 
72.8 
86.6 
49.7 

67.3 
74.4 
65.0 
76.4 
68.0 

6.4 
11.7 

5.9 
11.4 
13.0 
34.2 
54.0 
61.9 
87.0 

16.1 
86.9 
12.0 
62.6 
78.3 


13.2  12.01 
I 


•a  c 

C  (D  — 

S  -I  < 
0,  p 


P.ct.lC'lr's 


11.8 

11.9 

12.1 
13.3 
11.1 
16.8 

12.9 
13.8 
11.6 
17.: 

12.2 
13.4 
11.5 
17.4 

11.9 
13.5 
11.6 
16.7 

9.7 
iO.7 
18.1 
18.8 
12.0 

46.9 
73.2 
33.3 
73.9 

2.1 
25.9 
16.5 
18.9 

3.3 

1.2 
6.2 
11.4 
1.8 
2.2 


10.81 

11.2 

12.51 
14.5| 
.031 
36.21 
I 

12.3 
14.4 
.02 
36.2 

9.7 
11.2 

.03 
32.9 

9.9 
12.0 

.03 
31.81 

10.6 
11.7 
11.1 
9.8 
9.2 

36.0 
.3 

51.6 
.3 

3.4 

33  7 

•leii 

18.5 
4.0 

.2 
1.2 
1.0 
.1 
.1 


5.0 

.7 
3.7 
75.1 
14.7 
18.4 


0.9 
1,0 
.6 
1.1 


.61 
.7 

.8 
1.0 

.8 
1.2 

.9 
1.0 

.8 
1.3 


.9 
.8 
1.2 

.8 
.9 
.8 
1.2 

.9 

1.0 
2.9 
.4 
4.0 

3.6 
6.2 
3.5 
9.1 

.6 
3.S 

.9 
1.0 

.7 

.4 
2.0 
.5 

.8 
1.01 


635 
720 
250 
1,705 

765 

675 

695 

750 
860 
210 
1,840 

760 
865 
215 
1,850 

635 
72.0 
215 
1,710 

640 
755 
215 
1,655 

625 
695 
778 
738 
590 

2,525 
1,501 
2,794 
1,480 
1,690 
1,950 

985 
1,130 

325 

45 
235 
1,650 
310 

385 


The  above  figures  represent  average  values.  Indi- 
vidual specimens  vary  more  or  less  from  the  average. 

As  is  shown  by  analysis,  eggs  consist  chiefly  of  tv/o 
nutrients — protein  and  fat — in  addition  to  water  and 
mineral  matter  or  ash.  Carbohydrates  are  present  in 
small  amounts  and  are  usually  not  determined  in  analy- 
ses. According  to  recent  figures,  duck  eggs  contain  0.3 
per  cent.,  hens'  eggs  0.67  per  cent.,  turkey  and  guinea 
eggs  each  0.8  per  cent.,  and  goose  eggs  1.3  per  cent,  of 
carbohydrates.  Plover  eggs  contain  considerably  more, 
the  amount  reported  being  over  2  per  cent.  In  the  case 
of  domestic  poultry  about  one-third  of  the  carbohydrates 
occurs  in  the  yolk  and  about  two-thirds  in  the  white  of 
the  egg.  The  protein  or  niti-ogenous  matter  is  the  nutri- 
ent which  is  needed  to  build  and  repair  body  tissue,  as 
already  stated,  while  the  fat  is  useful  for  supplying 
energy.  Some  energy  is  also  derived  from  protein. 
Mineral  matter  is  required  by  the  body  for  building 
bones  and  other  tissue  and  for  other  purposes,  but  less 
is  definitely  known  concerning  the  kind  and  amount  re- 
quired than  in  the  case  of  the  other  constituents. 

In  composition,  eggs  of  all  sorts  resemble  such  animal 
foods  as  meat,  milk  and  cheese,  more  than  such  vege- 
table foods  as  flour  and  potatoes.  As  will  be  seen  by 
Mie  figures  in  the  above  table,  hens'  eggs  and  those  of 
;.her  domestic  fowls  do  not  differ  greatly  in  composi- 


tion. Neither  does  the  cooked  egg  vary  materially  in 
composition  from  the  raw,  though  it  varies  markedly  in 
texture.  The  yolk  and  white  differ  greatly  in  com- 
position. The  yolk  contains  considerable  fat  and  ash, 
while  the  white  is  practically  free  from  fat  and  has  a 
very  small  ash  content.  The  white  contains  somewhat 
less  protein  and  about  twice  as  much  water  as  the 
yolk.  As  is  usually  the  case  with  our  familiar  foods, 
the  water  is  not  visible  as  such,  but  is  combined  or 
mingled  with  the  other  constituents,  so  that  the  whole 
food  is  more  or  less  moist,  liquid,  or  juicy. 

The  figures  quoted  in  the  table  show  that  there  is 
practically  no  difference  in  composition  between  hens' 
eggs  with  dark  shells  and  those  with  white  shells,  al- 
though there  is  a  popular  belief  in  soma  localities  that 
the  former  are  "richer." 

As  shown  by  their  composition,  eggs  are  nutritious 
food.  They  are  less  concentrated — i.  e.,  contain  more 
water — than  cheese,  but  are  more  concentrated  than 
milk  or  oysters.  In  water  content  they  do  not  differ 
greatly  from  the  average  value  for  lean  meat.  The 
kinds  and  amounts  of  nutrients  in  eggs  indicate  that 
they  may  be  properly  used  in  the  diet  in  the  same  way 
as  most  other  animal  foods,  and  this  belief  i.s  con- 
firmed by  the  experience  of  uncounted  generations. 

The  table  shows  the  nutrients  in  different  kinds  of 
eggs  and  in  a  few  other  foods.  Many  studies  have  been 
made  of  the  chemical  bodies  making  up  the  different 
classes  of  nutrients.  Egg  white  is  sometimes  said  to 
be  pure  albumen.  In  reality  it  consists  of  several  albu- 
mens, and,  according  to  many  observers,  a  little  carbo- 
hydrate material.  The  phosphorus  in  the  albumen  of 
the  egg  Avhite  is  equivalent  to  about  O.OS  per  cent,  phos- 
phoric acid.  The  chief  ash  constituent  is  sodium  chlorid 
(common  salt). 

A  very  extended  investigation  of  the  white  of  egg  was 
made  at  the  Connecticut  State  Experiment  Station.  The 
"albumen"  or  protein  of  egg  white  was  found  to  consist 
of  four  bodies — ovalbume,  coalbumen,  ovomucin,  and 
ovomucoid.  The  ovalbumen  is  the  chief  constituent  and 
makes  up  the  greater  part  of  the  egg  white.  The 
conalbumen  has  much  the  same  chemical  properties  as 
ovalbumen,  Ovomucin  and  ovomucoid  are  glycoprotcids, 
and  are  present  in  small  amounts. 

Egg  yolk  contains  a  num.ber  of  different  bodies,  in- 
cluding about  15  per  cent,  vitellin  (a  proteid) ;  20  per 
cent,  palmatin,  stearin,  and  olein  (the  fatty  constit- 
uents) ,  and  0.5  per  cent,  coloring  matter,  besides  some 
lecithin  (a  fat-like  body  containing  phosphorus),  nuclein, 
etc.  The  yellow  coloring  matter  in  egg  yolk  has  been 
separated  and  studied  somewhat,  and  though  its  exact 
character  is  not  yet  known,  it  is  related  to  the  yellow 
coloring  matter  of  animal  origin  called  lutein.  The 
total  phosphorus  in  the  yolk  is  equivalent  to  a  little  over 
1  per  cent,  of  phosphoric  acid.  Besides  phosphorus,  the 
yolk  contains  such  chemical  elements  as  calcium,  mag- 
nesium, potassium,  and  iron  in  the  foi"m  of  salts  and 
other  chemical  compounds.  The  protein  of  egg  yolk 
was  studied  extensively  at  the  Connecticut  State  Ex- 
periment Station.  According  to  these  investigations  it 
contains  a  large  amount  of  proteid  matter  combined  with 
lecithin.  The  name  lecithin-nucleo-vitellin  is  proposed 
for  this  compound,  which  behaves  like  a  globulin.  It 
is  soluble  in  a  solution  of  salt.  As  prepared  in  the  labo- 
ratory, the  lecithin-nucleo-vitellin  contained  from  15  to 
30  per  cent,  lecithin.  A  lecithin-free  body  insoluble  in 
salt  solution  was  also  isolated.  This  was  called  nucleo- 
vitellin. 

The  lecithin  present  in  egg  yolk  and  other  food  mate- 
rials has  come  to  be  regarded  as  one  of  the  very  :.m- 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


S3 


portant  food  constituents,  as,  in  addition  to  other  ele- 
ments, it  furnishes  the  body  with  phosphorus  in  a  form 
in  which  it  may  be  readily  assimilated.  Eggs  have  al- 
ways been  recognized  as  a  valuable  food  in  invalid  die- 
tetics. The  investigations  which  have  been  made  with 
lecithin  furnish  additional  proof  of  the  truth  of  this 
belief,  and  egg  yolks  in  abundance  are  often  prescribed 
where  it  is  desirable  to  supply  a  very  nutritious  and 
easily  assimilated  diet. 

One  of  the  constituents  of  egg  albumen  is  sulphur, 
and  the  egg  albumen  is  readily  decomposed  with  the  lib- 
eration of  hydrogen  sulphid.  The  bad  odor  of  rotten 
eggs  is  due  largely  to  the  presence  of  this  gas  and 
phosphureted  hydrogen,  which  is  also  formed.  The  shell 
of  the  egg  is  porous,  and  the  micro-organisms  which 
cause  the  egg  to  ferment— i.  e.,  to  rot,  or  spoil — gain 
access  to  the  egg  through  the  minute  openings.  Like 
the  mold  spores,  these  micro-organisms  are  widely  dis- 
tributed. 

Composition  of  shell. — In  the  table  no  figures  are 
given  for  the  composition  of  the  eggshell,  which,  of 
course,  has  no  food  value.  The  shell  of  the  hen's  egg- 
is  made  up  very  largely  of  mineral  matter,  containing 
93.7  per  cent,  calcium  carbonate,  1.3  per  cent,  magnes- 
ium carbonate,  0.8  per  cent,  calcium  phosphate,  and  4.2 
per  cent,  of  organic  matter.  The  shells  of  goose  eggs, 
on  an  average,  have  the  following  percentage  composi- 
tion: Calcium  carbonate,  95.3;  magnesium  carbonate, 
0.7;  calcium  phosphate,  0.5,  and  organic  matter,  3.5. 
The  shells  of  ducks'  eggs  contain  94.4  per  cent,  calcium 
cai'bonate,  0.5  per  cent,  magnesium  carbonate,  0.8  per 
cent,  calcium  phosphate,  and  4.3  per  cent,  organic  mat- 
ter. The  shells  of  other  eggs  are  doubtless  of  much 
the  same  composition. 

FLAVOR   OF  EGGS. 

It  is  generally  conceded  that  eggs  which  are  perfectly 
fresh  have  the  finest  flavor.  After  eggs  have  been 
kept  for  a  time  the  flavor  deteriorates,  even  if  there  is 
no  indication  of  spoiling.  Such  differences  are  especial- 
ly important  w'nen  eggs  are  used  for  table  purposes. 
Stale  eggs  are  not  regarded  as  palatable,  and  the  flavor 
of  spoiled  eggs  is  such  that  for  this,  if  for  no  other  rea- 
son, they  are  totally  unfit  for  food.  The  flavor  of 
even  perfectly  fresh  eggs  is  not  always  satisfactory, 
since  it  is  influenced  more  or  less  by  the  character  of 
the  food  eaten  by  the  laying  hens.  The  New  York 
State  Experiment  Station  studied  the  effect  of  different 
rations  upon  the  flavor  of  eggs.  Those  laid  by  hens  fed 
a  highly  nitrogenous  ration  were  inferior  to  those  from 
hens  fed  a  csrbonaceous  ration.  They  had  a  disagreeable 
flavor  and  odor,  the  eggs  and  yolk  were  smaller,  and 
the  keeping  qualities  were  inferior.  In  a  test  at  the 
Massachusetts  (Hatch)  Experiment  Station  to  compare 
cabbage  and  clover  rowen  as  the  green  portion  of  a  ra- 
tion for  laying  hens,  it  was  found  that  the  eggs  pro- 
duced on  the  former  ration,  although  heavier  and  pos- 
sessing a  higher  percentage  of  dry  matter,  protein,  and 
fat,  were  inferior  in  flavor  and  cooking  qualities  to 
eggs  produced  on  the  ration  containing  clover.  The 
North  Carolina  Experiment  Station  studied  the  effect 
of  highly  flavored  food  upon  the  eggs  produced.  A 
small  quantity  of  chopped  wild-onion  tops  and  bulbs 
was  added  to  the  feed  of  a  number  of  hens.  After 
about  two  weeks  the  onion  flavor  was  noticed  in  the 
eggs  laid.  When  the  amount  of  onion  feed  was  in- 
creased the  flavor  became  so  pronounced  that  the  eggs 
could  not  be  used.  A  week  after  the  feeding  of  onions 
was  discontinued  the  disagreeable  flavor  was  no  longer 
noticed.  From  these  tests  it  appears  that  the  flavor  of 
eggs  may  be  materially  influenced  by  the  iood  consumisrfs 


1  This  is  a  matter  of  importance,  especially  when  poul- 
try are  kept  to  supply  eggs  for  table  use. 

COLOR  OF  EGGSHELLS. 

Considering  both  wild  and  domestic  birds  of  all  sorts, 
the  eggshell  ranges  from  white  to  deep  colors  through 
a  variety  of  tints  and  mottlings.  The  eggs  of  domestic 
fowls  are  not  highly  colored.  Those  of  hens  vary  from 
white  to  a  light  or  deep  brownish  tint,  the  eggs  from 
a  particular  breed  being  very  similar  as  regards  their 
color.  The  eggs  of  ducks  are  bluish  white,  those  of 
geese  are  commonly  white.  The  eggs  of  guinea  fowls 
are  white  or  light  brown  more  or  less  mottled  with  a 
deeper  shade,  and  the  eggs  of  turkeys  are  usually 
speckled  with  a  yellowish  brown. 

Any  special  coloring  of  eggs  of  wild  birds  is  common- 
ly explained  as  a  protective  measure  which  has  been 
developed  to  render  the  eggs  inconspicuous  in  their 
normal  surroundings,  and  therefore  less  easily  found 
by  their  enemies.  Such  reasonings  would  indicate  that 
the  observed  differences  in  the  color  of  hens'  eggs  are 
due  to  characteristics  which  different  breeds  have  in- 
herited from  remote  wild  ancestors.  Of  common  breeds, 
Plymouth  Rocks,  Wyandottes,  Cochins,  Brahmas  and 
Langshans,  among  others,  lay  brown-shelled  eggs,  and 
Leghorns  and  Minorcas  white-shelled  eggs. 

In  studies  undertaken  at  the  Maine  Experiment  Sta- 
tion with  Wyandottes  and  Plymouth  Rocks  for  the  pur- 
pose of  establishing  strains  with  highly  developed  lay- 
ing qualities  the  recorded  data  show  that  although  both 
breeds  lay  tinted  eggs  the  depth  of  color  varies  decid- 
edly with  the  individual  birds  in  the  case  of  each  breed. 
By  careful  selection  of  breeding  stock,  therefore,  it 
should  be  possible  to  control  the  color  of  the  eggshell  to 
a  great  extent  so  that  it  may  be  made  to  meet  any  mai-- 
ket  demand.  The  color  of  the  shells,  whatever  its  rea- 
son, is  a  feature  which  has  some  effect  on  the  market 
value  of  eggs  of  domestic  poultry,  although  not  upon  their 
food  value,  the  brown-shelled  eggs  bringing  the  higher 
price,  for  instance,  in  the  Boston  market  and  white- 
shelled  eggs  in  the  New  York  market.  In  England  the 
preference  is  decidedly  in  favor  of  the  tinted  eggs. 

There  is  no  constant  relation  between  the  color  of  the 
shell  and  the  composition  of  the  egg,  notwithstanding  the 
popular  belief  that  the  dark-shelled  eggs  are  "richer." 
Extended  investigations,  in  which  many  analyses  were 
made  of  eggs  from  different  kinds  of  hens,  carried  on 
at  the  California  and  Michigan  experiment  stations, 
showed  plainly  that  there  are  no  uniform  variations  in 
the  physical  properties  and  chemical  composition  of 
brown-shelled  and  white-shelled  eggs.  The  brotvn- 
shelled  eggs  analyzed  at  the  California  Experiment  Sta- 
tion were  laid  by  Partridge  Cochins,  Dark  Brahmas, 
Black  Langshans,  Wyandottes  and  Barred  Plymouth 
Rocks,  and  the  white-shelled  eggs  by  Brown  Leghorns, 
Buff  Leghorns,  White  Minorcas  and  Black  Minorcas.  On 
an  average  the  different  colored  eggs  were  practically 
alike  as  regards  composition  and  total  nuti'itive  value. 
The  analyses  made  in  connection  with  the  Michigan  Ex- 
periment Station  investigations  gave  results  which  were 
entirely  in  accord  with  those  obtained  in  California. 

These  tests  and  others  like  them  justify  the  statement 
that  the  eggs  of  any  given  breed  of  hens,  whatever  the 
color  of  the  shells,  are  as  nutritious  as  those  of  another 
breed  provided  the  eggs  are  of  he  same  size  and  freshness 
and  the  fowls  are  equally  well  fed. 

COLOR  OF  EGG  CONTENTS. 

Raw  egg  white  has  a  more  or  less  greenish  tinge, 
though  apparently  no  specific  coloring  matter  has  been 


GOVERNMENT 


COOK  BOOK 


Isolated  from  It.  When  the  albumen  is  coagulated  by- 
heat  in  cooking  the  color  varies  from  white  to  pale  green- 
ish or  yellowish  tones,  hard  to  define,  yet  distinct. 

The  egg  yolk  owes  its  characteristic  yellow  color  to  a 
pigment  closely  akin  to  the  yellow  coloring  matter  of 
animal  origin  called  lutein.  Though  frequently  the  yolk 
is  pale,  the  color  which  we  associate  with  the  egg  yolk 
is  a  decided  yellow.  The  pale-yolked  eggs  are  often  said 
by  housekeepers  to  be  inferior,  as  a  given  number  of  such 
yolks  impart  to  cake  or  custard  less  of  the  yellow  color 
which  is  looked  upon  as  an  indication  of  richness  than 
do  eggs  of  a  darker  yolk. 

The  yellow  color  apparently  depends,  in  a  large  meas- 
ure, at  least,  upon  the  presence  of  green  feed  in  the 
ration,  and  pale-colored  yolks  indicate  that  such  feed  is 
deficient.  At  any  rate,  at  the  New  York  State  Experiment 
Station,  it  was  noted  that  hens  fed  only  on  certain  grain 
and  animal  feeds  generally  laid  eggs  with  pale  yolks  and 
that  adding  to  the  ration  a  liberal  amount  of  fresh  or 
<!ried  young  clover,  alfalfa,  or  grass  will,  as  a  rule,  insure 
the  deeper  yellow  color,  which  is  desired.  It  is  reason- 
able to  assume  that  it  is  the  coloring  bodies  or  other 
materials  containing  iron  present  in  green  feed  which 
affect  the  yellow  color  of  the  egg  yolk.  The  New  York 
experiments  indicate  that  the  poultry  raiser  who  desires 
eggs  with  deeper  colored  yolks  can  obtain  them  by  feed- 
ing an  abundance  of  such  green  feeds  as  those  indicated. 

That  the  color  of  the  white  varies  more  or  less  with 
different  rations  was  also  noted  at  the  New  York  State 
Experiment  Station,  though  the  variation  was  less  con- 
stant than  with  the  yolks.  There  is  a  belief  that  the 
cooked  whites  of  eggs  having  shells  of  light  tint  will  match 
in  color  and  that  the  albumen  of  white-shelled  eggs  is 
decidedly  whiter  when  cooked  than  that  of  eggs  with 
tinted  shells.  Perhaps  few  persons  carry  preferences  so 
faftr  as  to  refuse  an  egg  because  of  the  color  of  the  white, 
yet  it  is  stated  on  good  authority  that  in  high-class  hotels 
and  restaurants,  where  great  attention  is  paid  to  details, 
it  has  been  found  that  the  boiled  eggs  served  must  match 
in  color.  If,  when  taken  from  the  shell,  one  is  greenish 
white  and  the  other  clear  white  the  egsg  are  often  re- 
jected on  the  ground  that  one  of  them  is  not  of  the  re- 
quired standard  of  excellence. 

Although  analyses  show,  as  has  been  stated  above,  that 
variations  in  color  are  not  accompanied  by  corresponding 
variations  in  composition,  it  is  not  at  all  unlikely  that 
there  are  differences  in  the  flavor  corresponding  to  the 
color  of  the  egg  contents  and  that  the  deep  yellow  yolks 
have  a  more  pronounced  flavor  than  the  pale  yolks.  At 
any  rate,  as  long  as  preferences  for  deep-colored  yolks 
and  clear  whites  exist  the  poultry  raiser  who  caters  to  a 
fancy  market  should  take  them  into  account. 

It  is  a  matter  of  common  observation  that  when  eggs 
are  boiled  the  yolks  where  it  joins  the  white  has  often  a 
more  or  less  greenish  color.  Contact  with  the  white  ren- 
ders the  surface  of  th  eyolk  somewhat  alkaline.  Experi- 
ment has  shown  that  when  egg  white  and  many  other 
proteids  are  heated  hydrogen  sulphid  or  some  other  vola- 
tile sulfur  body  is  quite  commonly  liberated  in  small 
amounts,  and  Rubner  has  found  that  the  discoloration  of 
of  the  egg  yolk  is  due  to  the  action,  in  the  presence  of 
alkali,  of  hydrogen  sulphid  thus  produced  on  the  ii-on  of 
the  vitellin  of  egg  yolk. 

Silver  is  very  quickly' turned  dark  by  air  containing 
sulfur  fumes.  The  blackening  of  silver  foi'ks  and  spoons, 
so  commonly  noted  when  they  come  in  contact  with  eggs 
at  table,  is  due  to  the  action  upon  the  silver  of  the  small 
amount  of  hydrogen  sulphid  or  other  sulfur  body  lib- 
crated  from  the  egg  white  when  it  is  cooked. 


DIGESTIBIUTY  OF  EGGS. 

Raw  eggs  or  eggs  only  slightly  cooked  are  commonly 
said  to  be  very  digestible,  the  idea  being  obviously  that 
they  digest  readily  without  giving  rise  to  pain  or  other 
physical  discomfort.  The  term  digestibility  has  another 
meaning,  and  one  which  is  commonly  intende'd  when  it  is 
used  in  the  discussion  of  food  values.  This  refers  to  the 
thoroughness  of  digestion — that  is,  to  the  total  amount  of 
material  which  any  food  gives  up  to  the  body  in  its  pas- 
sage through  the  digestive  tract.  Since  only  soluble  or 
possibly  emulsified  matter  can  pass  through  the  walls  of 
the  stomach  and  intestines  and  be  taken  up  into  the  cir- 
culation to  nourish  the  body,  it  follows  that  only  ma- 
terial which  is  soluble  or  is  rendered  soluble  by  the  action 
of  pepsin,  trypsin  and  other  ferments  in  the  digestive 
juices,  is  truly  digestible.  The  original  condition  of 
food,  the  method  of  cooking,  and  the  amount  eaten  at  a 
given  time,  are  among  the  factors  which  determine  the 
quantity  of  any  given  material  which  can  be  digested. 

Statements  are  frequently  made  with  regard  to  the 
length  of  time  required  to  digest  different  foods.  Many 
of  these  are,  doubtless,  far  from  accurate,  as  the  subject 
is  not  easy  to  study.  By  methods  of  artificial  digestion 
the  length  of  time  required  to  render  different  foods 
soluble  has  been  frequently  tested.  It  is  possible  to  use 
in  the  experiments  the  same  digestive  ferments  which 
occur  in  the  body  and  to  approximate  body  temperature, 
etc.,  but  it  is  quite  certain  that  all  the  conditions  of  di- 
gestibility in  the  body  cannot  be  reproduced  in  the  labora- 
tory. The  results  obtained  are  interesting  and  often  valu- 
able, but  it  is  worthy  of  note  that  careful  investigators 
are  much  slower  to  make  sweeping  deductions  from  them 
than  are  popular  writers  on  the  subject. 

More  than  fifty  years  ago  Dr.  Beaumont,  a  United 
States  army  surgeon,  had  an  excellent  opportunity  for 
studying  digestibility  in  the  stomach.  A  healthy  young 
man  was  accidentally  wounded  in  the  stomach  by  the 
discharge  of  a  musket.  In  time  the  large  wound  healed, 
leaving  a  permanent  opening  into  the  stomach.  This 
was  ordinarily  closed  by  a  valvular  flap  made  by  a  fold 
of  the  stomach  lining,  which  could  be  easily  pushed  aside 
and  the  interior  of  the  stomach  examined  or  the  stomach 
contents  removed  as  desired.  Strange  as  it  may  seem, 
this  could  be  done  without  giving  the  subject  pain  or 
annoyance,  nor  was  his  general  health  abnormal  after 
the  wound  had  healed  in  this  curious  way.  For  many 
years  after  the  time  of  the  accident  (1822)  the  man  was 
under  Dr.  Beaumont's  care  and  observation.  Very  many 
experiments  wei-e  made  on  the  length  of  time  required 
by  different  foods  for  digestion  in  the  stomach,  or  "chjini- 
fication."  Many  artificial  digestion  experiments  were 
also  made,  using  gastric  juice  removed  from  the  man's 
stomach.  Although  these  investigations  were  carried  on 
long  before  the  theories  and  methods  of  physiological 
chemistry  now  accepted  were  known,  so  much  care  was 
taken  in  making  the  experiments  and  in  recording  the 
experimental  data  that  the  work  has  never  ceased  to  be 
of  great  value  as  well  as  interest.  However,  it  should 
not  be  forgotten  that  Dr.  Beaumont  studied  only  diges- 
tion in  the  stomach;  his  work  throws  no  light  on  diges- 
tion in  the  intestines.  This  is  of  especial  importance  in 
the  case  of  stai-chy  foods,  as  the  digestion  of  starch,  which 
is  begun  by  the  saliva,  ceases  in  the  stomach,  but  is  re- 
sumed in  the  intestines.  The  expei'iments  reported  in- 
clude among  others  tests  of  the  length  of  time  required  to 
digest  eggs,  hard  and  soft  boiled,  fried,  roasted  and  raw. 
The  raw  eggs  were  sometimes  whipped  and  sometimes 
not.  In  all  the  tests  fresh  eggs  were  used.  Hard-boiled 
and  fried  eggs  each  requii'ed  3V2  hours  for  digestion  in 
the  stomach,  i.  e.,  for  the  formation  of  chyme;  soft- 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


boiled  eggs  required  3  hours;  roasted  eggs,  2*4  hours; 
raw  eggs,  not  whipped,  2  hours,  and  raw  eggs,  whipped, 
1V2  hours.  When  tested  by  the  methods  of  artificial 
digestion  followed  by  Dr.  Beaumont,  which  approximated 
bodily  conditions  as  closely  as  he  was  able  to  make  them, 
the  hard-boiled  eggs  required  8  hours  for  digestion;  soft- 
boiled  eggs,  6Vo  hours;  raw  eggs,  not  whipped,  4:V2  hours, 
and  raw  eggs,  whipped,  4  hours.  The  two  methods  gave 
results  which  agree  in  the  relative  length  of  time  re- 
quired for  the  digestibility  of  the  different  samples, 
though  not  in  the  actual  time  required.  Similar  results 
were  obtained  by  the  two  methods  with  the  greater  part 
of  the  large  number  of  foods  studied.  One  of  Dr.  Beau- 
mont's general  deductions  was  that  most  of  the  common 
foods  required  from  2  to  4  hours  to  digest  in  the  stomach. 
He  says,  further: 

"The  time  required  for  the  digestion  of  food  is  various, 
depending  upon  the  quantity  and  quality  of  the  food,  state 
of  the  stomach,  etc.,  but  the  time  ordinarily  required  for 
the  disposal  of  a  moderate  meal  of  the  fibrous  parts  of 
meat,  white  bread,  etc.,  is  from  3  to  hours." 

As  regards  the  time  required  for  digestion  in  the 
stomach,  it  will  be  seen  that  in  this  investigation  eggs 
compare  favorably  with  other  common  foods.  It  must 
be  remembered  that  digestion  continues  in  the  intestines, 
and  that  no  data  are  furnished  by  these  experiments 
for  judging  of  this  factoi-.  This  is  an  important  matter, 
as  food  material  which  escapes  digestion  in  the  stomach 
may  be  thoroughly  digested  later  in  the  intestines.  This 
fact  seems  to  have  been  often  overlooked  in  the  discus- 
sion of  Dr.  Beaumont's  work. 

Some  German  investigations  which  have  to  do  with 
the  length  of  time  different  foods  remain  in  the  stom- 
ach have  also  shown  that  two  eggs  eaten  raw,  poached 
or  in  the  form  of  an  omelet,  leave  the  stomach  in  2  to 
3  hours,  being  included  in  the  same  class  as  milk, 
oysters,  white  bread,  etc.  The  ordinary  kinds  of  fresh 
meat  leave  the  stomach  in  3  to  4  hours,  and  some  smoked 
meats  and  salt  fish  in  4  to  5  hours.  Another  investi- 
gator, who  has  divided  common  foods  into  four  classes 
according  to  the  ease  with  which  they  are  digested,  in- 
cludes raw  or  soft-cooked  eggs  in  the  most  digestible 
class,  along  with  beef  tea,  milk,  etc.  Few  inve.stigations 
have  been  reported  regarding  the  comparative  digesti- 
bility of  the  different  parts  of  the  egg.  On  the  basis 
of  a  number  of  experiments.  Stern  concludes  that  raw 
or  half-raw  egg  yolk  is  very  readily  digested.  Ho  found  | 
that  two  to  four  raw  yolks  leave  the  stomach  in  70  to 
100  minutes,  and  that  one  or  two  yolks  taken  in  a  cup 
of  hot  coffee  with  some  sugar  and  milk  leave  the  stom- 
ach in  60  to  70  minutes. 

Among  later  experiments  on  the  digestibility  of 
eggs  by  artificial  methods,  the  work  of  the  Minnesota 
Experiment  Station  may  be  cited.  The  object  was  to 
study  the  thoroughness  as  well  as  the  ease  of  digestion. 
Five  experiments  were  made  by  means  of  a  pepsin  solu- 
tion with  eggs  cooked  under  different  conditions.  Eggs 
were  cooked  for  3  minutes  in  water  at  212°  F.,  giving 
a  "soft-boiled"  egg,  and  for  5  minutes  and  20  minutes  at 
the  same  temperature.  The  egg  boiled  3  minutes  and 
digested  for  5  hours  in  pepsin  solution,  compared  with 
one  boiled  20  minutes  and  treated  in  the  same  way, 
showed  8.3  per  cent,  undigested  protein  in  the  former, 
against  4.1  per  cent,  undigested  protein  In  the  latter. 
Under  similar  treatment  the  egg  boiled  5  minutes  gave 
3.9  per  cent,  undigested  protein.  In  all  cases  the  egg 
was  quite  thoroughly  digested.  Another  trial  was  then 
made  in  which  the  eggs  were  cooked  for  periods  of  5 
and  10  minutes  in  water  at  180°  F. — ^that  is,  the  albu- 
men was  coagulated  at  a  lower  temperature  than  that 


of  boiling  water.  In  both  of  these  cases  the  protein  waa 
entirely  digested  in  5  hours.  These  results  would  indi- 
cate that  while  the  time  and  the  temperature  of  cooking 
have  some  effect  upon  the  rate  of  digestion,  they  do  not 
very  materially  affect  the  total  digestibility. 

As  regards  the  general  deduction  that  eggs  cooked 
for  different  lengths  of  time  vary  somewhat  in  the 
length  of  time  for  digestion,  under  the  experimental 
conditions  the  results  agree  quite  closely  with  those 
obtained  by  Dr.  Beaumont. 

Experiments  have  also  been  made  with  man  to  learn 
how  thoroughly  eggs  are  digested.  In  such  tests  it  is 
usual  to  analyze  the  food  and  the  feces,  the  latter  being 
assumed  to  consist  principally  of  undigested  food.  De- 
ducting the  amount  of  the  different  nutrients  in  the 
feces  from  the  total  amount  consumed,  shows  how  much 
of  each  nutrient  was  digested.  Such  an  experiment  was 
made  at  the  Minnesota  Experiment  Station  with  a 
healthy  man.  A  very  considerable  portion  of  the  nitrog- 
enous material  and  fat  of  the  ration  was  furnished  by 
eggs,  the  other  foods  eaten  being  potatoes,  milk  and 
cream.  About  90  per  cent,  of  the  total  nitrogenous  ma- 
terial and  over  90  per  cent,  of  the  fat  consumed  were 
digested.  In  experiments  at  the  University  of  Ten- 
nessee, with  healthy  men  on  a  diet  of  bread,  milk  and 
eggs,  from  93  to  95  per  cent,  of  both  the  protein  and  fat 
was  digested.  The  conclusion,  therefore,  seems  war- 
ranted that,  as  shown  by  composition  and  digestibility, 
eggs  possess  the  high  nutritive  properties  which  are 
Discussing  these  tests,  Rubner  says  in  effect: 

A  German  investigator,  Rubner,  some  years  ago  tested 
the  digestibility  of  hard-boiled  eggs  with  a  healthy  man. 
No  other  food  was  eaten  with  the  eggs.  It  was  found 
that  95  per  cent,  of  the  total  dry  matter  and  97  per  cent, 
of  the  protein  were  digested.  The  fat  was  also  very 
thoroughly  assimilated.  The  percentage  of  total  dry 
matter  and  protein  digested  was  about  the  same  as  was 
found  in  similar  experiments  in  which  meat  only  was 
eaten,  while  the  percentage  of  fat  digested  was  larger. 
Discussing  the  tests,  Rubner  says  in  effect: 

"Fi'om  the  fact  that  eggs  are  as  completely  digested  as 
meat,  it  does  not  follow  that  they  are  digested  in  the 
same  time,  or  that  hax-d-boiled  eggs  do  not  produce  more 
disturbance  in  the  digestive  organs.  It  is  highly  prob- 
able that  there  is  no  difference  in  the  thoroughness  of 
digestion  of  hard-boiled  and  soft-boiled  eggs." 

Jorissenne,  discussing  the  digestibility  of  eggs  with 
reference  to  some  recent  European  work  on  the  subject, 
states  that  he  regards  the  yolk  of  raw,  soft-boiled  and 
hard-boiled  eggs  as  equally  digestible.  The  white  of 
soft-boiled  eggs,  being  semi-liquid,  offers  little  more 
resistance  to  the  digestive  juices  than  raw  white.  The 
white  of  a  hard-boiled  egg  is  not  generally  very  thor- 
oughly ma.sticated.  Unless  finely  divided,  it  offers  more 
resi.stance  to  the  digestive  juices  than  the  fluid  or  semi- 
fluid white,  and  undigested  particles  may  remain  in  the 
digestive  tract  many  days  and  decompose.  From  this 
deduction  it  is  obvious  that  thorough  mastication  is  a 
matter  of  importance.  Provided  mastication  is  thor- 
ough, marked  differences  in  the  completeness  of  diges- 
tion of  the  three  sorts  of  eggs,  in  the  opinion  of  the 
writer  cited,  will  not  be  found. 

Perhaps  the  most  extended  study  of  the  digestibility 
of  eggs  on  record  was  cariied-  on  at  S'^  l'eteraft\irg  by 
Tikhvinski.  Two  experiments,  each  divided  into  rwa 
periods  of  seven  days,  were  made  with  a  healthy  man. 
In  the  first  period  of  the  first  experiment  the  diet  con- 
sisted of  hard-boiled  eggs,  bread  and  meat;  in  the  sec- 
ond, of  soft-boiled  eggs  with  bread  and  meat.  The  sec- 
ond experiment  was  made  under  similar  conditions,  ex- 


56  GOVERNMENT 


cept  that  the  soft-boiled  eggs  were  used  in  the  first 
period  and  the  hard-boiled  in  the  second.  The  eggs  fur- 
nished about  one-fifth  of  the  total  protein  and  two- 
thirds  of  the  total  fat  of  the  diet.  Considering  the  aver- 
age results  of  the  whole  investigation  or  those  of  each 
experiment,  the  rations  containing  the  eggs  cooked  in 
the  two  ways  proved  equally  digestible,  90  to  91  per 
cent,  of  the  protein  and  95  per  cent,  of  the  fat  consumed 
being  retained  in  the  body.  As  the  only  factor  in  the 
experiments  which  varied  was  the  time  of  cooking  the 
eggs,  the  deduction  seems  warranted  that  the  hard  and 
soft  boiled  were  equally  digestible. 

Lebben  reports  a  digestion  experiment  with  a  healthy 
man  in  which  22  eggs  were  consumed  in  ten  days.  In 
round  numbers  the  following  coefficients  of  digestibility 
were  obtained:  Dry  matter  95,  protein  98,  total  ether  ex- 
tract 96,  lecithin  91,  neutral  fat  98,  and  ash  70  per 
cent.  Stern,  whose  work  was  referred  to  above,  con- 
cluded that  egg  yolks  were  very  thoroughly  assimi- 
lated, as  he  found  only  1.5  to  3.5  per  cent,  of  the  fat  of 
the  egg  yolk  in  the  feces,  a  smaller  proportion  than  was 
found  in  the  case  of  milk  fat  and  other  animal  fats.  He 
states,  further,  that  egg  yolks  stimulate  gastric  diges- 
tion and  in  addition  contain  a  ferment  which  has  .«ome 
action  upon  starch. 

Schilling  made  extended  microscopical  studies  of  the 
undigested  material  in  feces  from  a  variety  of  foods. 
He  found  that  raw  egg  and  egg  slightly  cooked,  as  in 
hot  soup,  was  thoroughly  digested.  In  the  case  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs  bits  of  shell  or  skin  of  the  egg  accidentally 
eaten  were  recovered  in  the  feces.  The  egg  itself  was 
apparently  quite  thoroughly  digested.  When  fried  egg 
or  omelet  was  eaten  some  small  bits  of  brown,  hard- 
cooked  egg  were  recovered,  but  in  general  the  tests 
showed  that  the  eggs  were  very  thoroughly  assimilated. 

In  connection  with  the  nutrition  investigations  of  the 
Department  of  Agriculture,  the  average  coefficients  of 
digestibility  have  been  deduced  for  different  kinds  of 
food  materials,  that  for  the  protein  of  eggs  being  97 
per  cent,  and  for  the  fat  95  per  cent. 

From  all  the  evidence  it  seems  fair  to  conclude  that 
eggs  are  quite  thoroughly  digested  and  that  the  lengih 
of  time  of  cooking  has  less  effect  upon  this  factor  thai: 
upon  the  time  required  for  digestion.  In  a  healthy  man 
the  latter  consideration  is  probably  not  a  matter  of 
much  importance.  In  the  diet  of  sick  persons  and  in- 
valids it  may  be  more  important.  Diet  in  such  cases, 
however,  is  a  matter  for  the  attention  of  skilled  physi- 
cians. 

In  some  of  the  experiments  referred  to  above  the  eggs 
were  used  alone;  in  others,  as  a  part  of  a  more  or  less 
simple  mixed  diet.  The  effect  of  one  food  upon  the  di- 
gestibility of  another  is  a  matter  concerning  which  little 
is  aefiniteiy  known.  It  is  possible  that  when  two  foods 
are  eaten  together  the  digestibility  of  either  or  both  is 
unchanged,  increased  or  diminished. 

Apparently  no  experiments  have  been  made  in  which 
the  problem  was  studied  with  special  reference  to  eggs 
combined  with  other  foods.  However,  artificial  digestion 
experiments  were  made  by  Fraser  on  the  effect  of  bev- 
erages on  the  digestibility  of  a  number  of  foods  includ- 
ing raw  and  cooked  egg  albumen,  which  led  to  the  de- 
duction that  tea,  coffee  and  cocoa  retarded  somewhat 
the  digestibility  of  the  nitrogenous  constituents  of  eggs, 
although  the  effect  was  less  marked  with  coffee  than 
with  the  other  beverages.  Water  did  not  have  this  ef- 
fect. Though  interesting  in  themselves,  too  wide  appli- 
cation should  not  be  made  of  the  results  of  such  tests, 
for  even  if  the  beverages  retarded  digestibility  some- 
what, it  does  not  necessarily  follow  that  this  effect  was 


COOK  BOOK 

harmful  or  that  the  thoroughness  of  digestion  was 
altered. 

THE  PLACE  OF  EGGS  IN  THE  DIET. 

Eggs  are  used;in  nearly  every  household  in  some  form 
or  another  in  varying  amounts.  From  the  results  of 
the  numerous  dietary  studies  made  under  the  auspices 
of  the  Department  of  Agriculture,  and  by  the 
agricultural  experiment  stations,  it  has  been 
calculated  that  on  an  average  eggs  furnish  3 
per  cent,  of  the  total  food,  5.9  per  cent,  of 
the  total  protein,  and  4.3  per  cent  .of  the  total  fat  used 
per  man  per  day.  Cheese  was  found  to  furnish  0.4  per 
cent,  of  the  total  food,  1.6  per  cent,  of  the  total  protein 
and  1.6  per  cent,  of  the  total  fat,  while  the  milk  and 
cream  together  furnish  19.9  per  cent,  of  the  total  food, 
10.5  per  cent,  of  the  total  protein  and  10.7  per  cent,  of 
the  total  fat.  Milk  and  cream  together  also  furnish 
some  carbohydrates,  while  eggs  and  cheese  furnish  no 
appreciable  amount  of  this  group  of  nutrients.  Con- 
sidering some  of  the  common  meats,  beef  and  veal  to- 
gether were  found  to  furnish  10.3  per  cent,  of  the  total 
food,  24.6  per  cent,  of  the  total  protein  and  19.5  per 
cent,  of  the  total  fat.  The  corresponding  values  for 
mutton  and  lamb  together  were  1.4,  3.3  and  3.8  per  cent. 

It  will  be  seen  that,  judged  by  available  statistics, 
eggs  compared  favorably  with  the  more  common  animal 
foods  as  regards  both  the  total  food  m.aterial  and  the 
total  protein  and  fat  furnished  by  them  in, the  average 
daily  dietary.  In  other  words,  investigations  show  that 
the  high  food  value  of  eggs  is  appreciated  and  that  they 
constitute .  one  of  the  veiy  important  articles  of  diet  in 
the  American  household. 

The  amount  of  nutritive  material  which  a  given 
amount  of  eggs  will  furnish  at  any  stated  price  per 
dozen  may  be  readily  calculated.  When  eggs  are  15 
cents  per  dozen,  10  cents  expended  for  this  food  will 
furnish  1  pound  total  food  material,  containing  0.13 
pound  protein  and  0.09  pound  fat,  the  whole  having  a 
fuel  value  of  635  calories.  At  25  cents  per  dozen,  10 
cents  worth  of  eggs  will  furnish  0.60  pound  total  food 
material,  supplying  0.08  pound  of  protein,  0.05  pound 
of  fat,  and  380  calories.  At  35  cents  per  dozen,  10  cents 
will  procure  0.43  pound  total  food  material,  containing 
0.06  pound  of  protein,  0.04  pound  of  fat,  and  furnish 
275  calories.  Ten  cents  expended  for  beef  at  8  cents 
per -pound  will  furnish  1.25  pounds  total  food  material, 
containing  0.24  pound  protein,  0.16  pound  fat  and  1,120 
calories.  Expended  for  beef  sirloin  at  20  cents  per 
pound  it  will  furnish  0.5  pound  total  food  matter,  con- 
taining 0.08  pound  protein,  0.09  pound  fat  and  520 
calories.  If  wheat  bread  is  purchased  at  5  cents  per 
pound,  10-  cents  will  pay  for  2  pounds  of  total  food  ma- 
terial, containing  0.18  pound  protein,  0.03  pound  of  fat, 
1.06  pounds  carbohydrates  and  2,430  calories. 

In  imany  of  the  dietary  studies  made  in  the  United 
States  data  were  recorded  of  the  cost  of  different  foods 
and  the  relative  amount  of  nutritive  material  contrib- 
uted by  each  in  proportion  to  the  total  cost.  (Compared 
with  other  foods  at  the  usual  prices,  eggs  at  12  cents 
per  dozen  were  found  to  be  a  . cheap  source  of  nutrients; 
at  16  cents  per  dozen  they  were  fairly  expensive,  and 
at  25  cents  per  dozen  and  over  they  were  very  .ex- 
pensive. This  points  needs  some  further  discussion, 
since  the  value  of  eggs  cannot  fairly  be  estimated  solely 
on. the  basis  of  the  amount  of  nutrients  furnished.  Eggs 
are  also  valuable  for  givingg  variety  to  the  diet  and 
for  furnishing  a  light,  easily  digested,  nitrogenous  food, 
especially  suitable  for  breakfast  or  other  light  meal,  an 
important -item  for  those  of  sedentary  habits. 

Many  fajai^fft  ef  moderate  m*'»>ns  make  «,  practice 


GOVERNMENT 


of  buying  fresh  meat  for  but  one  meal  a  day — i.  e.,  din- 
ner— using  for  breakfast  either  bacon,  drief  beef,  cod- 
fish, or  left-over  meats,  etc.,  and  for  lunch  or  supper, 
bread  and  butter  and  the  cold  meat  and  other  foods 
remaining  from  the  other  two  meals,  with  perhaps  the 
addition  of  cake  and  fresh  or  presei-ved  fruit.  It  is  the 
thriftyi  housekeeper,  who  uses  all  her  material  as  econom- 
ically as  possible  in  some  such  way,  who  is  likely  to  fall 
into  the  error  of  excluding-  eggs  at  higher  prices  almost 
entirely  from  her  food  supply.  .If  her  economy  was 
directed  principally  to  restrainijig  the  use  of  eggs  in 
the  making  of  rich  dessert  dishes,  cake  and  pastry,  one 
might  not  only  refrain  from  criticising  but  welcome  the 
circumstances  which  necessitated  the  making  of  simple 
and  therefore  more  wholesome  desserts.  But  usually  the 
housekeeper  economizes  by  the  more  obvious  method  of 
omitting  to, serve  them  as  a  meat  substitute. 

The  statement  so  frequently  made  by  housekepers  that 
eggs  at  25  cents  per  dozen  are  cheaper  than  meat  is 
true  in  one  sense.  Not,  of  course,  i  with  reference  to  the 
total  amount  of  nutrients  obtained  for  the  money  ex- 
pended, but  because  a  smaller  amount  of  money  is  needed 
to  furnish  jthe  meal.  That  is  to  say,  whereas  at  least 
1.25  pounds  of  beefsteak,  costing  25  cents  per  pound, 
would  be  necessary  to  serve  five  adults,  in  many  fami- 
lies five  eggs,  costing  10  cents,  at  25  cents  per  dozen, 
would  serve  the  same  number  and  pi'obably  satisfy  them 
equally  well.  If  the  appetites  of  the  family  are  such 
as  to, demand  two  eggs  per  person,  doubling  the  cost,  it 
is  still  20  per  cent,  less  than  the  steak.  Many  persons 
eat  more  than  two  eggs  at  a  meal,  but  the  average  num- 
ber per  person  it  is  believed  does  not  generally  exceed 
two  in  most  families.  A  hot3l  chef  is  authority  for  the 
statement  that  at  least  one-half  the  orders  he  receives 
are  for  one  egg.  Frequently  ^when  omelets,  souffles, 
creamed  eggs,  and  other  similar  dishes  are  served  in 
place  of  meat  or  fried,  poached  or  boiled  eggs,  less  than 
one  egg  per  |  person  is  used. 

These  statements  must  not  be  understood  as  advocat- 
ing a  free  use  of  eggs  at  any  price,  but  merely  as  point- 
ing out  that  even^at  the  higher  prices  the  occasional  use 
of  eggs  in  place  of  meat  need  not  be  regarded  as  a 
luxury.  This  is  illustrated  by  observations  made  by 
Miss  Bevier  and  Miss  Sprague  at  Lake  Erie  College,  Ohio, 
during  a  dietary,  study  of  some  115  women,  most  of  them 
students.  It  was  found  that  the  amount  and  cost  of 
certain  foods  required  for  a  single  meal,  when  any  one 
of  them  was  served,  was  as  follows: 


COMPARATIVE  AMOUNT  AND  COST  OF  CERTAIN  FOODS 
REQUIRED,  PER  MEAL,  BY  WOMEN  STUDENTS'  CLUE. 


Total 

1 

Amount 

Price  per 

cost  per 

required- 

pound. 

meal. 

Pounds 

Cents 

36 

17 

$6.12 

45 

14 

6.30 

24 

12',4 

3.00 

ao 

12 

3.60 

12 

9 

1.08 

4 

23 

.92 

15 

14% 

2.20 

1  15 

1           16%  1  2.50 

At  the  price  at  which  board  was  furnished  steaks  and 
chops  were  too  expensive  for  use  as  breakfast  dishes. 
Bacon  or  dried  beef  ,was  considered  cheap.  Hamburg 
steak  and  sausage  were  regarded  as  practicable  and 
were  occasionally  used.  When  the  investigation  was 
undertaken,  the  opinion  was  commonly  held  that  eggs 
at  22  [Cents  per  dozen  were  expensive,  and  at  25  cents 
per  dozen  so  dear  that  they  could  not  be  used,  yet  it  will 
be  seen  by  reference  to  the  above  table  that  at  both  prices 
the  [amount  of  eggs  actually  required  to  satisfy  the 
"Members  of  the  club  cost  less  than  any  of  the  ffi^-^^  ey-= 


COOK   BOOK  57 


cept  bacon  and  dried  beef.  Observation  showed  that 
many  of  the  students  did  not  care, for  Hamburg  steak  or 
sausage  and  would  eat  eggs.  If  any  boiled  eggs  were 
left  they  could  be  used  for  garnishing  salads  or  in , other 
ways,  and  therefore  need  not  be  wasted,  while  it  was 
difficult  to  utilize  the  remnants  of  Hamburg  steak  or  sau- 
sage in  such  a  way  that  they  were  relished.  It  appears, 
therefore,  that  as  regards  both  economy  and  palatability, 
the  use  of  eggs  in  this  case  as  a  breakfast  dish  was  war- 
ranted. 

In  the  instance  cited  it  is  known  that  10  dozen  eggs, 
30  pounds  of  sausage,  24  pounds  of  Hamburg  steak,  12 
pounds  of  bacon,  and  the  amounts  of  the  other  foods 
mentioned  in  the  table  were  not  equivalent  as  regards 
the  quantity  of  nutrients  furnished,  although  any  of  the 
foods  could  be  used  as  a  breakfast  dish  in  the  quantity 
mentioned  and  give  satisfaction  to  the  club.  It  must  be 
remembered,  however,  that  other  foods  were  served  with 
the  meat  or  eggs,  and  that  the  total  amount  of  nutrients 
consumed  at  the  meal  may  not  have  varied  greatly  from 
day  to  day,  although  the  menu  was  quite  different.  Fur- 
thermore, physiologists  believe  that  the  quantities  eaten 
each  day  need  not  conform  exactly  to  the  accepted  dietary 
standard,  but  rather  that  the  daily  average  throughout 
a  considerable  period  must  not  vary  very  greatly  from  it, 
A  deficiency  on  one  day  may  be  easily  made  good  by  an 
abundance  the  next.  When,  as  was  the  case  at  Lake 
Erie  College,  each  meal  is  abundant,  the  average  daily 
diet  corresponds  with  reasonable  closeness  to  the  com- 
monly accepted  dietary  standard,  and  the  persons  con- 
suming it  have  every  appearance  of  being  properly  nour- 
ished, such  substitutions  of  foods  of  unlike  nutritive  value 
seem  justifiable  on  theoretical  as  well  as  on  practical 
grounds.  It  hardly  needs  to  be  said  that  the  instance 
cited  is  in  accord  with  the  ordinary  household  practice. 

It  is  renerally  recognized  that  eggs  require  less  time 
for  cooking  than  most  common  foods,  and  this  may  be 
seen  from  experiments  carried  on  by  the  As.sociation  of 
Collegiate  Alumni  of  Boston  in  a  study  of  the  relative 
cost  of  foods  cooked  with  different  kinds  of  fuel  and 
related  questions.  There  are  undoubtedly  cases  in  which 
a  small  saving  of  gas  or  other  fuel  in  the  preparation  of 
a  dish  is  of  importance,  but  the  saving  of  fuel  would 
perhaps  be  most  often  less  important  than  a  saving  of 
time.  Without  question  a  reason  for  the  popularity  of 
eggs  in  most  households  is  that  they  may  be  so  easily 
and  quickly  prepared  for  the  table  in  appetizing  ways. 

Eggs  and  the  foods  into  which  they  enter  are  favorite 
articles  of  diet  with  very  many,  if  not  most,  families, 
and  in  this  as  in  other  cases  the  income  and  the  need 
for  economy  must  determine  how  far  and  in  what  way 
they  are  to  be  used  when  they  are  high  in  price.  Judged 
by  their  composition  and  digestibility,  eggs  are  woi-thw 
of  the  high  opinion  in  which  they  are  usually  held.  Fur- 
thermore, they  are  generally  relished.  Although  the 
physiological  reasons  were  perhaps  difficult  to  find,  it 
was  long  ago  conceded  that  the  attractiveness  and  pala- 
tability of  any  food  must  not  be  forgotten  in  considerin.? 
its  true  nutritive  value.  Refinement  in  matters  of  diet 
should  keep  pace  with  growth  in  general  culture,  and 
the  foods  which  please  the  esthetic  sense  as  well  as 
satisfy  the  hunger  are  certainly  to  be  preferred  to  thos;:- 
which  sei-ve  the  latter  purpose  only,  if  they  can 
provided  with  the  income  at  one's  command. 

MARKETING  AND   PRESERVING  EGGS, 

In  earlier  times  eggs,  if  sold  at  all,  were  marketed 
near  the  place  where  they  were  produced.    Many  are 
still  sold  in  local  markets,  but  with  improved  methods  of 
 *^^ation  the  market  has  been     '■-ided  and  largs 


58  GOVERNMENT 


quantities  of  eggs  are  shipped  from  this  country  and 
Canada  not  only  to  distant  points  in  America,  but  to 
England  and  more  distant  coutnries.  For  shipping  long 
distances  there  are  special  egg  cases,  and  the  shipper 
should  select  the  kind  which  is  preferred  in  the  market 
which  he  desires  to  reach.  The  way  in  which  eggs  are 
graded  commercially  natui'ally  varies  more  or  less  in 
different  markets,  but  in  general  the  grading  depends 
upon  freshness,  flavor,  uniformity,  size,  appearance,  color 
and  similar  factors.  It  is  important  that,  as  is  the  case 
with  perfectly  fresh  eggs  of  good  quality,  the  egg  con- 
tents should  almost  completely  fill  the  shell  and  that 
the  egg  white  should  be  jelly-like  rather  than  watery  in 
consistency.  It  is  said  that  these  qualities  are  affected 
by  the  character  of  the  rations  fed,  and  that  in  the  case 
of  fowls  given  a  well-balanced  ration  the  shells  will  be 
well  filled  and  the  eggs  of  good  consistency.  The  color 
of  the  yolk  is  undoubtedly  a  factor  which  influences 
many  in  their  judgment  of  the  quality  of  eggs.  This  is 
undoubtedly  influenced  by  food,  and  it  is  claimed  that 
yellow  corn,  especially  with  an  abundance  of  green  feed, 
tends  to  produce  eggs  with  decidedly  yellow  yolks. 

Only  perfectly  fresh  eggs  should  be  marketed.  The 
shells  should  always  be  wiped  clean,  if  necessary,  and 
the  eggs  graded  as  regards  size.  In  some  markets  brown 
eggs  are  preferred  to  white,  as  was  noted  elsewhere.  It 
is  stated  that  in  the  Boston  market  brown-shelled  eggs, 
such  as  are  laid  by  Partridge  Cochins,  Dark  Brahmas, 
Barred  Plymouth  Rocks,  etc.,  sell  at  from  2  to  5  cents 
per  dozen  more  than  white-shelled  eggs,  such  as  are  laid 
by  Brown  Leghorns,  Buff  Leghorns  and  White  and  Black 
Minorcas.  In  the  New  York  market,  on  the  other  hand, 
white-shelled  eggs  bring  the  higher  price.  That  the 
color  of  the  shell  has  no  relation  to  the  food  value,  as 
shown  by  analysis,  is  pointed  out  on  another  page.  It 
has  been  found  that  in  order  to  supply  the  demand  which 
exists  in  some  markets  for  brown-shelled  eggs  the  shells 
are  sometimes  artificially  colored. 

Eggs  which  are  to  be  shipped,  whether  with  or  without 
a  special  attempt  at  preservation,  should  be  perfectly 
fresh,  and  should  never  be  packed  in  any  material  which 
has  a  disagi'eeable  odor.  Musty  straw  or  bran  will  injure 
the  flavor  and  keeping  qualities  of  eggs  packed  in  it. 
When  shipped,  eggs  should  not  be  placed  near  anything 
which  has  a  disagreeable  or  strong  odor.  Keeping  eggs 
near  a  cargo  of  apples  during  transportation  has  been 
known  to  injure  their  flavor  and  also  their  mai'ket  value. 
As  previously  noted,  micro-organisms  may  enter  the  egg 
through  the  minute  pores  in  the  shell  and  set  up  fer- 
mentation which  iniins  the  egg.  In  other  words,  it  be- 
comes rotten.  The  normal  eggshell  has  a  natural  sur- 
face coating  of  mucilaginous  matter,  which  hinders  the 
entrance  of  these  harmful  organisms  for  a  considerable 
time.  If  this  coating  is  removed  or  softened  by  washing 
or  otherwise,  the  keeping  quality  of  the  egg  is  much 
diminished.  If  the  process  of  hatching  has  begun,  the 
flavor  of  the  egg  is  also  injured. 

There  are  many  ways  of  testing  the  freshness  of  eggs 
which  are  more  or  less  satisfactory.  "Candling,"  as  it 
is  called,  is  one  of  the  methods  most  commonly  followed. 
The  eggs  are  held  up  in  a  suitable  device  against  a  light. 
The  fresh  egg"  appears  unclouded  and  almost  translucent; 
if  incubation  has  begun,  a  dark  spot  is  visible,  which  in- 
creases in  size  according  to  the  length  of  time  incubation 
has  continued.  A  rotten  egg  appears  dai'k  colored.  Egg 
dealers  become  very  expert  in  judging  eggs  by  testing 
them  by  this  and  other  methods. 

The  age  of  eggs  may  be  approximately  judged  by 
taking  advantage  of  the  fact  that  as  they  grow  old  their 
density  decieases  through  evaporation  of  moisture.  Ac- 


COOK  BOOK 


cording  to  Siebel  a  new-laid  egg  placed  in  a  vessel  of 
brine  made  in  the  proportion  of  2  ounces  of  salt  to  1  pint 
of  water,  will  at  once  sink  to  the  bottom.  An  egg  1  day 
old  will  sink  below  the  surface,  but  not  to  the  bottom, 
while  one  3  days  old  will  swim  just  immersed  in  the 
liquid.  If  more  than  3  days  old,  the  egg  will  float  on 
the  surface,  the  amount  of  shell  exposed  increasing  with 
age;  and  if  2  weeks  old,  only  a  little  of  the  shell  will 
dip  in  the  liquid. 

The  New  York  State  Experiment  Station  studied  the 
changes  in  the  specific  gravity  of  the  eggs  on  keeping 
and  found  that  on  an  average  fresh  eggs  had  a  specific 
gravity  of  1.090;  after  they  were  10  days  old,  of  1.072; 
after  20  days,  of  1.053,  and  after  30  days,  of  1.035.  The 
test  was  not  continued  further.  The  changes  in  specific 
gravity  correspond  to  the  changes  in  water  contents. 
When  eggs  are  kept  they  continually  lose  water  by  evap- 
oration through  the  pores  in  the  shell.  After  10  days 
the  average  loss  was  found  to  be  1.60  per  cent,  of  the 
total  water  present  in  the  egg  when  perfectly  fresh ;  after 
20  days,  3.16  per  cent.,  and  after  30  days,  5  per  cent. 
The  average  temperature  of  the  room  where  the  eggs 
were  kept  was  63.8°  F.  The  evaporation  was  found  to 
increase  somewhat  with  increased  temperature.  None  of 
the  eggs  used  in  the  30-day  test  spoiled. 

Fresh  eggs  are  preserved  in  a  number  of  ways  which 
may,  for  convenience,  be  grouped  under  two  general 
classes:  (1)  Use  of  low  temperature,  i.  e.,  cold  storage; 
and  (2)  excluding  the  air  by  coating,  covering  or  im- 
mersing the  eggs,  some  material  or  solution  being  used 
which  may  or  may  not  be  a  germicide.  The  two  methods 
are  often  combined.  The  first  method  owes  its  value 
to  the  fact  that  micro-organisms,  like  larger  forms  of 
plant  life,  will  not  grow  below  a  certain  temperature,  the 
necessary  degree  of  cold  varying  with  the  species.  So 
far  as  experiment  shows,  it  is  impossible  to  kill  these 
minute  plants,  popularly  called  "bacteria"  or  "germs,"  by 
any  degree  of  cold;  and  so,  very  low  temperature  is  un- 
necessaiy  for  preserving  eggs,  even  if  it  were  not  un- 
desirable for  other  reasons,  such  as  injury  by  freezing 
and  increased  cost.  According  to  a  report  of  the  Cana- 
dian commission  of  agriculture  and  dairying: 

"When  fresh-laid  eggs  are  put  into  cold  storage  with  a 
sweet,  pure  atmosphere  at  a  temperature  of  34°  F.,  very 
little,  if  any,  change  takes  place  in  their  quality.  The 
egg  cases  should  be  fairly  close  to  prevent  circulation  of 
air  through  them,  which  woiild  cause  evaporation  of  the 
egg  contents. 

"Eggs  should  be  carried  on  the  cars  and  on  the  steam- 
ships at  a  temperature  of  from  42°  to  38°.  When  cases 
containing  eggs  are  removed  from  the  cold  storage  cham- 
ber, they  should  not  be  opened  at  once  in  an  atmosphere 
where  the  temperature  is  warm.  They  should  be  left 
for  two  days  unopened,  so  that  the  eggs  may  become 
gradually  warmed  to  the  temperature  of  the  air  in  the 
room  where  they  have  been  deposited,  otherwise  a  con- 
densation of  moisture  from  the  atmosphere  will  appear 
on  the  shell  and  give  them  the  appearance  of  sweating. 
This  so-called  'sweating'  is  not  an  exudation  through  the 
shell  of  the  egg,  and  can  be  entirely  prevented  in  the  man- 
ner indicated." 

It  is  .«!tated  by  Siebel  that  in  practice  in  this  conutry 
32°  to  33°  F.  is  regarded  as  the  best  temperature  for 
storing  eggs,  although  some  American  packers  prefer  31° 
to  34°,  while  English  writers  recommend  a  temperature 
of  40°  to  45°  as  being  equally  satisfactory.  The  amount 
of  moisture  in  the  air  in  the  cold-storage  chamber  haa, 
without  doubt,  an  important  bearing  on  this  point.  Eggs 
are  generally  placed  in  cold  storage  in  April  and  the  early 
part  of  May.   If  placed  in  storage  later  than  this  time, 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


59 


they  do  not  keep  well.  They  are  seldom  kept  in  storage 
longer  than  a  year.  Eggs  which  have  been  stored  at  a 
temperature  of  30°  must  be  used  soon  after  removal  from 
storage  while  those  stored  at  35°  to  40°  will  keep  for  a 
considerable  time  after  removal  from  storage,  and  are 
said  to  have  the  flavor  of  fresh  eggs.  The  author  cited 
states  that  eggs  for  market,  especially  those  designed 
for  cold  storage,  should  not  be  washed.  Stored  eggs 
should  be  turned  at  least  twice  a  week,  to  prevent  the  yolk 
from  adhering  to  the  shell. 

Eggs  are  sometimes  removed  from  the  shells  and  stored 
in  bulk,  usually  on  a  commercial  scale,  in  cans  containing 
about  50  pounds  each.  The  temperature  recommended  is 
about  30°  F.,  or  a  little  below  freezing,  and  it  is  said 
they  will  keep  any  desired  length  of  time.  They  must 
be  used  soon  after  they  have  been  removed  from  storage 
and  have  been  thawed. 

The  substances  suggested  and  the  methods  tried  for 
excluding  air  conveying  micro-organisms  to  the  egg,  and 
for  hindering  the  growth  of  those  already  present,  are 
very  numerous.  An  old  domestic  method  is  to  pack  the 
eggs  in  oats,  bran,  or  salt.  Another,  which  has  always 
had  many  advocates,  consists  in  covering  the  eggs  with 
limewater  which  may  or  may  not  contain  salt.  The 
results  obtained  by  such  methods  are  not  by  any  means 
uniform.  Sometimes  the  eggs  remain  fresh  and  of  good 
flavor,  and  at  other  times  they  spoil.  Recently,  in  Ger- 
many, twenty  methods  of  preserving  eggs  were  tested. 
The  eggs  were  kept  for  eight  months  with  the  following- 
results  :  Those  preserved  in  salt  water,  i.  e.,  bi-ine,  were 
all  bad,  not  rotten,  but  unpalatable,  the  salt  having  pene- 
trated the  eggs.  Of  the  eggs  preserved  by  wrapping  in 
paper,  80  per  cent,  were  bad;  the  same  proportion  of 
those  preserved  in  a  solution  of  salicylic  acid  and  glycerin 
were  unfit  for  use.  Seventy  per  cent,  of  the  eggs  rubbed 
with  salt  were  bad,  and  the  same  proportion  of  those 
preserved  by  packing  in  bran,  or  covered  with  paraffin 
or  varnished  with  a  solution  of  glycerin  and  salicylic  acid. 
Of  the  eggs  sterilized  by  placing  in  boiling  water  for  12 
to  15  seconds,  50  per  cent,  were  bad.  One-half  of  those 
treated  with  a  solution  of  alum  or  put  in  a  solution  of 
salicylic  acid  were  also  bad.  Forty  per  cent,  of  the  eggs 
varnished  with  water  glass,  collodion  or  shellac  were 
spoiled.  Twenty  per  cent,  of  the  eggs  packed  in  peat 
dust  were  unfit  for  use,  the  same  percentage  of  those 
preserved  in  wood  ashes,  or  treated  with  a  solution  of 
boric  acid  and  water  glass,  or  with  a  solution  of  per- 
manganate of  potash  were  also  bad.  Some  of  the  eggs 
were  varnished  with  vaseline;  these  were  all  good,  as 
wei'e  those  preserved  in  limewater  or  in  a  solution  of 
water  glass.  Of  the  last  three  methods,  preserving  in  a 
solution  of  water  glass  is  especially  recommended,  since 
varnishing  the  eggs  with  vaseline  is  time  consuming,  and 
treatment  with  limewater  sometimes  communicates  to  the 
eggs  a  disagi'eeable  odor  and  taste. 

Many  of  these  methods  have  been  tested  at  the  agri- 
cultural experiment  stations  in  this  and  other  countries. 
The  Canada  Station  found  that  infertile  eggs  kept  much 
better  than  fertile  eggs  when  packed  in  bran.  In  view 
of  the  fact  that  preservation  in  brine  has  been  said  to 
injure  the  eggs  by  giving  them  an  unpleasant,  salty  taste, 
experiments  were  recently  made  at  Berlin  University  to 
learn  the  proportion  of  salt  which  entered  the  eggs  when 
placed  in  brine  of  varying  strength.  It  was  found  by  the 
investigator  that  with  a  saturated  or  half-saturated  solu- 
tions the  salt  entered  the  eggs  at  first  very  quickly  and 
later  much  more  slowly.  After  remaining  4  days  in  the 
saturated  solution,  an  egg  contained  as  much  salt  as 
one  which  remained  4  to  6  weeks  in  a  1  to  3  per  cent, 
solution.  If  kept  in  the  saturated  solution  4  weeks,  l.i 
per  cent,  salt  was  found  in  the  yolk  and  1.5  per  cent,  in 


the  white  of  the  eggs.  None  of  the  eggs  tested  was 
spoiled.  When  a  1  to  5  per  cent,  solution  was  used,  the 
eggs  kept  well  for  4  weeks  and  did  not  have  a  salty 
flavor.  These  instances  are  sufficient  to  show  that  any 
given  method  will  give  different  results  in  different 
hands,  and  this  is  not  surprising,  since  the  eggs  used 
are  not  always  uniformly  fresh,  nor  is  it  at  all  certain 
that  other  experimental  conditions  are  uniform. 

In  the  last  two  or  three  years  the  method  of  preserv- 
ing eggs  with  a  solution  of  water  glass  has  been  often 
tested  both  in  a  practical  way  and  in  laboratories.  The 
North  Dakota  Experiment  Station  has  been  especially  in- 
terested in  the  problem.  In  these  experiments  a  10  per 
cent,  solution  of  water  glass  preserved  eggs  so  effectually 
that  "at  the  end  of  3^/^  months  eggs  that  were  preserved 
the  first  part  of  August  still  appeared  to  be  perfectly 
fresh.  In  most  packed  eggs,  after  a  little  time,  the  yolk 
settles  to  one  side,  and  the  egg  is  then  inferior  in  quality. 
In  eggs  preserved  for  3%  months  in  water  glass  the  yolk 
retained  its  normal  position  in  the  egg,  and  in  taste  they 
were  not  to  be  distinguished  from  fresh  store  eggs. 
Again,  most  packed  eggs  will  not  beat  up  well  for  cake 
making  or  frosting,  while  eggs  from  a  water-glass  solu- 
tion seemed  quite  equal  to  the  average  fresh  eggs  of  the 
market." 

Since  the  method  was  first  proposed  the  preservation 
of  eggs  with  water  glass  has  been  thoroughly  tested  ex- 
perimentally and  in  a  practical  way  in  the  United  States 
and  other  countries,  in  general  with  favorable  results. 
A  series  of  comparative  tests  at  the  Canada  Experimental 
Farms  led  to  the  conclusion  that  limewater  was  equal 
to  water-glass  solution  in  effectiveness  and  cheaper  and 
easier  to  prepare,  but  most  who  have  tried  it  experiment- 
ally seem  to  prefer  water  glass. 

Water  glass  or  soluble  glass  is  the  popular  ateme  for 
potassium  silicate  or  for  sodium  silicate,  the  commercial 
article  often  being  a  mixture  of  the  two.  The  commei-cial 
water  glass  is  used  for  preserving  eggs,  as  it  is  much 
cheaper  than  the  chemically  pure  article  which  is  required 
for  many  scientific  purposes.  Water  glass  is  commonly 
sold  in  two  forms,  a  syrup-thick  liquid  of  about  the  con- 
sistency of  molasses,  and  a  powder.  The  thick  syrup,  the 
form  perhaps  most  usually  seen,  is  sometimes  sold  whole- 
sale as  low  as  1.75  cents  per  pound  in  carboy  lots.  The 
retail  price  varies,  though  10  cents  per  pound,  accordingf 
to  the  North  Dakota  Experiment  Station,  seems  to  be 
the  price  commonly  asked.  According  to  the  results  ob- 
tained at  this  station,  a  solution  of  the  desired  strength 
for  preserving  eggs  may  be  made  by  dissolving  1  part 
of  the  syrup-thick  water  glass  in  10  parts,  by  measure, 
of  water.  If  the  water-glass  powder  is  used,  less  is 
required  for  a  given  quantity  of  water.  Much  of  the 
water  glass  offered  for  sale  is  very  alkaline.  Such  ma- 
terial should  not  be  used,  as  the  eggs  preserved  in  it  will 
not  keep  well.  Only  pure  water  should  be  used  in  mak- 
ing the  solution,  and  it  is  best  to  boil  it  and  cool  it  before 
mixing  with  the  water  glass.  The  solution  should  be  care- 
fully poured  over  the  eggs  packed  in  a  suitable  vessel,  < 
which  must  be  clean  and  sweet,  and  if  wooden  kegs  or 
barrels  are  used  they  should  be  thoroughly  scalded  before 
packing  the  eggs  in  them.  The  packed  eggs  should  be 
etored  in  a  cool  place.  If  they  are  placed  where  it  is  too 
warm,  silicate  deposits  on  the  shell  and  the  eggs  do  not 
keep  well.  Only  clean  eggs  should  be  packed,  but  the 
North  Dakota  Experiment  Station  found  it  best  not  to 
wash  the  eggs  before  packing,  as  this  removes  the  natural 
mucilaginous  coating  on  the  outside  of  the  shell.  Tha 
station  states  that  1  gallon  of  the  water  glass  will  make 
sufficient  solution  for  50  dozen  eggs  if  they  ai'e  properly 
packed. 

If  it  is  desired  to  preserve  eggs  in  limewater,  the  solu- 


60  GOVERNMENT 


tion,may  be  prepared  by  placing  2  or  3  pounds  of  un- 
slaked lime  in  5  gallons  of  water  and  allowing  the  mix- 
ture to  stand  until  the  lime  settles  and  the  liquid  is  clear. 
The  eggs  should  be  iplaced  in  a  clean  earthenware  jar 
or  other  suitable  vessel  and  covered  with  the  clear  lime- 
water.  Sometimes  a  pound  of  salt  is  used  with  the  lime, 
but  it  is  (Said  that  such  a  mixture  imparts  a  slight  taste 
of  lime  to  the  eggs. 

It  is,  perhaps,  too  much  to  expect  that  eggs  packed 
in  any  way  will  be  just  as  satisfactory  for  table  use  as 
the  fresh  article.  The  opinion  seems  to  be,  however, 
that  those  preserved  with  water  glass  are  superior  to 
most  of  those  preserved  otherwise.  (The  shells  of  eggs 
preserved  in  water  glass  are  apt  to  crack  in  boiling.  It 
is  stated  that  this  may  be  prevented  by  puncturing  the 
blunt  end  ,of  the  egg  with  a  pin  before  putting  it  into 
the  water. 

In  tests  carried  on  at  the  Washington  Experiment 
Station  water  glass  gave  better  results  than  limewater 
or  a  patent  .egg  preservative.  It  was  found  that  the  eggs 
packed  in  water  glass  were  not  only  satisfactory  after 
having  been  packed  for  a  number  of  months,  but  also 
when  kept  for  four  weeks  after  ^removal  from  the  pre- 
servative solution. 

In  a  study  of  the  relative  merits  of  different  egg 
preservatives  carried  on  by  thej  Ontario  Agricultural  and 
Experimental  Union  losses  in  weight  were  recorded. 
When  eggs  were  packed  in  salt  the  loss  due  to  evapoi-a- 
tion  was  equal  to  33 ,  per  cent,  of  the  contents.  When  the 
eggs  were  greased  this  was  reduced  to  25  per  cent.  No 
loss  was  noted  when  the  eggs  were  preserved  in  water- 
glass  solution, or  limewater. 

In  the  East  Indian  Archipelago  salted  ducks'  eggs  are 
an  article  of  diet.  The  new-laid  eggs  are  packed  for 
2  or  3  weeks  in  a  mixture  ,of  clay,  brick  dust  and  salt. 
They  are  eaten  hard  boiled.  It  is  said  that  in  this  re-  | 
gion  and  in  India  turtle  eggs  are  also  .  preserved  in  salt. 
These  products,  while  unusual,  do  not  necessarily  sug- 
gest an  unpleasant  article  of  diet.  The  same  can  hardly 
be  said  jof  a  Chinese  product,  which  has  often  been  de- 
scribed. Ducks'  eggs  are  buried  in  the  ground  for  10 
or  12  months  and  undergo  a  peculiar  fermentation.  The 
hydrogen  sulphid  formed  breaks  the  shell  and  ( escapes 
while  the  egg  becomes  hard  in  texture.  It  is  said  that 
the  final  product  does  not  possess  a  disagreeable  odor 
or  J  taste.  Eggs  treated  in  this  or  some  similar  way  are 
on  sale  in  the  Chinese  quarter  of  San  Francisco,  and 
verj'  likely  in  other  American  cities.  A  sample  which 
was  examined  had  the  appearance  of  an  egg ;  covered 
with  dark-colored  clay  or  mud. 

SELLING  EGGS  BY  WEIGHT. 

Since  eggs  vary  more  or  less  in  size  it  has  been  j  pro- 
posed that  they  should  be  sold  by  weight  rather  than  by 
the  dozen,  which  is  the  usual  custom  in  this  country. 
The  North  Carolina  Experiment  Station,  in  investigat- 
ing this  iDoint,  recorded  the  weight  of  eggs  per  dozen 
and  the  number  produced  during  six  months  by  pullets 
and  old  hens  of  a  number  of  well-known  breeds,  and  by 
ducks.  Generally  speaking,  larger  eggs  were  laid  by 
hens  than  by  pullets  of  the  same  breed.  The  eggs  laid 
by  Pekin  ducks  (old  and  young)  averaged  35.6  ounces 
per  dozen,  and  were  heavier  than  those  laid  by  any  breed 
of  hens.  Of  the  different  breeds  of  hens  tested  the 
largest  eggs  weighed  28  ounces  per  dozen,  and  were  laid 
by  Light  Brahmas.  The  Black  Langshan  and  Barred 
Plymouth  Rock  hens'  eggs  weighed  a  little  over  26  ounces 
per  dozen,  while  those  laid  by  Single  Comb  Brown  Leg- 
horns, late-hatdied  Plymouth  Kock,  White  Wyandotte 


COOK  BOOK 


and  Buff  Cochin  hens  ranged  from  21.7  to  23.7  ounces 
per  dozen. 

Of  the  pullets,  the  heaviest  eggs  (weighing  26.5  ounces 

per  dozen)  were  laid  by  the  Black  Minorcas,  the  lightest 
by  the  Single  Comb  Brown  Leghorns  and  Silver-Laced 
Wyandottes.  These  weighed  17.5  and  22.1  per  dozen, 
respectively.  The  Barred  Plymouth  Rock,  White  Ply- 
mouth Rock,  White  Wyandotte,  Black  Langshan  and 
Buff  Cochin  pullets'  eggs  all  weighed  not  far  fi'om  2-i 
ounces  per  dozen.  As  will  be  seen,  the  variation  in  the 
weight  of  the  eggs  was  considerable.  In  tests  carried 
on  at  the  Maine  Experiment  Station  it  was  noticed  that 
eggs  from  hens  that  laid  the  greatest  number  were  on 
an  average  smaller  in  size  than  those  from  hens  produc- 
ing fewer  eggs.  The  percentage  of  fertility  was  also 
less  in  the  former  than  in  the  latter. 

In  the  North  Carolina  test  all  of  the  eggs,  regardless 
of  size,  had  a  local  market  value  of  13.5  cents  per  dozen 
at  the  time  of  the  investigation.  If  a  dozen  Single  Comb 
Brown  Leghorn  pullets'  eggs  weighing.  17.5  ounces  were 
worth  13.5  cents  per  dozen,  or  12  cents  per  pound,  the 
eggs  of  the  other  breeds  would  be  actually  worth  from 
16.3  cents  for  the  Single  Brown  Leghorn  hens  to  21.6 
cents  per  dozen  for  the  Light  Brahma  hens,  or  from  20.7 
to  60  per  cent,  in  excess  of  their  market  value.  The 
eggs  of  the  Pekin  Ducks  would  be  worth  26.7  cents,  or 
97.8  per  cent,  above  their  market  value.  On  the  basis 
of  the  results  obtained,  the  station  advocates  selling  eggs 
by  the  pound  instead  of  by  the  dozen.  It  is  said  that 
the  egg  packers  and  dealers  maintain  that  this  method 
would  increase  the  cost  of  the  eggs,  owing  to  the  extra 
handling  necessary  and  the  consequent  breakage.  An 
apparent  objection  to  selling  eggs  by  weight  is  that  they 
are  not  generally  used  in  the  household  in  this  ay.  Most 
recipes  call  for  eggs  by  number  and  not  by  weight. 
There  is  no  question  that  weighing  the  eggs  would  be 
i  more  accurate,  and  recipes  ai'e  occasionally  met  with  in 
which  this  method  is  followed, 

DESICCATED    EGGS,    EGG  POWDERS,    AND  EGG 
SUBSTITUTES. 

Different  methods  of  evaporating  or  desiccating  whole 
egg  yolks  and  whites  have  been  proposed  and  several 
products  which  claim  to  be  thus  prepared  are  now  on 
the  market.  It  is  said  that  the  egg  is  dried  in  or  out  of 
a  vacuum,  usually  by  a  gentle  heat  or  by  currents  of 
air.  When  placed  on  the  market  the  dried  egg  is  usually 
ground.  Sometimes  salt,  sugar,  or  both  have  been  used 
as  preservatives.  As  will  be  seen  by  reference  to  the 
table  of  composition,  such  material  is  merely  egg  from 
which  the  bulk  of  the  water  has  been  removed.  If  the 
process  of  manufacture  is  such  that  the  product  is  pala- 
table and  keeps  well,  the  value  of  evaporated  eggs  under 
many  circumstances  is  evident. 

This  material  is  used  by  bakers  to  some  extent  as  be- 
ing cheaper  when  fresh  eggs  are  high  in  price.  It  is  also 
used  in  provisioning-  camps  and  expeditions,  since  desic- 
cated foods  have  the  advantage  of  a  higher  nutritive 
value  in  proportion  to  their  bulk  than  the  same  mate- 
rials when  fresh.  Fresh  eggs  contain  about  25  per  cent, 
of  dry  matter.  If  all  the  water  is  removed  in  preparing 
evaporated  eggs,  1  pound  will  furnish  nutritive  material 
equivalent  to  about  4  pounds  of  fresh  eggs.  A  commer- 
cial egg  product  which  was  tested  appeared  to  be  dried 
egg  coarsely  ground.  For  use  it  was  thoroughly  mixed 
with  a  small  quantity  of  water.  The  mixture  could 
then  be  fried  or  made  into  an  omelet,  etc.,  and  was 
found  to  be  very  palatable,  closely  resembling  in  taste 
the  same  dishes  made  from  fresh  eggs. 
An  egg  substitute  h&s  been  manufactuv"^  fron''  "kim 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


61 


milk.  It  is  said  to  contain  the  casein  and  albumen  of 
the  milk  mixed  with  a  little  flour,  and  is  put  up  in  the 
form  of  a  paste  or  powder.  Such  material  is  evidently- 
rich  in  protein  and,  according  to  reports  apparently  re- 
liable, is  used  in  considei-able  quantities  by  bakers  and 
confectioners  in  place  of  fresh  eggs. 

Egg  substitutes  have  been  devised  which  consist  of 
mixtures  of  animal  or  vegetable  fats,  albumen,  starch 
or  flour,  coloring  matter,  and  some  leavening  powder  in 
addition  to  the  mineral  matters  similar  to  those  found 
in  the  egg.  Such  products  are  designed  to  resemble  eggs 
ir.  composition. 

Other  egg  substitutes  have  been  marketed  which  con- 
tain little  or  no  albumen,  but  apparently  consist  quite 
largely  of  starch,  colored  more  or  less  with  some  yellow 
substance.  These  goods  are  specially  recommended  for 
making  custards  and  puddings  similar  in  appearance  to 
those  in  which  fresh  eggs  are  used.  There  is  no  reason 
to  suppose  that  such  products  cannot  be  made  so  that 
they  will  bo  perfectly  wholesome.  The  fact  must  not 
be  overlooked  that  in  the  diet  they  cannot  replace  fresh 
eggo,  siitce  they  do  not  contain  much  nitrogenous  mat- 
ter or  fat.  As  recently  pointed  out  in  one  of  the  medical 
journals,  this  may  be  an  important  matter  if  such  an 
egg  substitute  is  used  in  the  diet  of  invalids,  especially 
if  the  composition  of  the  egg  substitute  is  not  known, 
and  'o  is  employed  with  the  belief  that,  like  eggs,  it 
contains  an  abundance  of  protein. 

POSSIBLE  DANGER  FROM  EATING  EGGS. 

Occasionally  a  person  is  found  who  is  habitually  made 
ill  by  eating  eggs,  just  as  thei'e  are  those  who  cannot 
eat  strawberries  or  other  foods  without  distress.  Such 
cases  are  due  to  some  personal  idiosyncrasy,  showing 
that  in  reality  "one  man's  meat  is  another  man's  poison." 
A  satisfactory  explanation  of  such  idiosyncrasy  seems 
to  be  lacking. 

Overindulgence  in  eggs,  as  is  the  case  with  other  foods, 


may  induce  indigestion  or  other  bad  effects.  Further- 
more, under  certain  conditions  eggs  may  be  the  cause 
of  illness  by  communicating  some  bacterial  disease  or 
some  parasite.  It  is  possible  for  an  egg  to  become  in- 
fected with  micro-organisms,  either  before  it  is  laid  or 
after.  The  shell  is  porous,  and  offers  not  greater  re- 
sistance to  micro-organisms  which  cause  disease  than 
it  does  to  those  which  cause  the  egg  to  spoil  or  rot. 
When  the  infected  egg  is  eaten  raw  the  micro-organisms, 
if  present,  are  communicated  to  man  and  may  cause 
disease.  If  an  egg  remains  in  a  dirty  nest,  defiled  with 
the  micro-organisms  which  cause  typhoid  fever,  carried 
there  on  the  hen's  feet  or  feathers,  it  is  not  strange  if 
some  of  these  bacteria  occasionally  penetrate  the  shell 
and  the  egg  thus  becomes  a  possible  source  of  infection. 
Perhaps  one  of  the  most  common  troubles  due  to  bac- 
terial infection  of  eggs  is  the  more  or  less  serious  illness 
sometimes  caused  by  eating  those  which  are  "stale." 
This  often  resembles  ptomaine  poisoning,  which  ia- 
caused,  not  by  micro-organisms  themselves,  but  by  thef' 
poisonous  products  which  they  elaborate  from  materials 
on  which  they  grow. 

Occasionally  the  eggs  of  worms,  etc.,  have  been  found 
inside  hens'  eggs,  as  indeed  have  grains,  seeds,  etc.  Such 
bodies  were  doubtless  accidentally  occluded  while  the 
white  and  shell  were  being  added  to  the  yolk  in  the  egg- 
gland  of  the  fowl. 

Judged  by  the  comparatively  small  number  of  cases 
of  infection  or  poisoning  due  to  eggs  reported  in  medical 
literature,  the  dang?r  of  aisease  from  this  source  is  not 
very  great.  However,  in  view  of  its  possibility,  it  is 
best  to  keep  eggs  as  clean  as  possible  and  thus  endeavor 
to  prevent  infection.  Clean  poultry  houses,  poultry  runs, 
and  nests  are  important,  and  eggs  should  always  bo 
stored  and  marketed  under  sanitary  conditions.  The 
subject  of  handling  food  in  a  cleanly  manner  is  too  sel- 
dom thought  of,  and  what  is  said  of  eggs  in  this  connec- 
tion applies  to  many  other  foods  with  even  more  force. 


USE  OF  FRUIT  AS  FOOD 


INTRODUCTION. 

Edible  fruits  show  the  greatest  range  in  form,  color, 
and  appearance  and  are  found  in  almost  countless  varie- 
ties; yet  fi-om  the  botanist's  standpoint  all  our  fruits 
are  the  seed-bearing  portion  of  the  plant.  The  edible 
fruits  of  temperate  regions  fall  into  a  few  groups — stone 
fruits,  like  cherries  and  plums;  pome  fruits,  like  apples 
and  pears;  grapes,  and  berries,  like  strawberries,  black- 
berries and  currants.  There  are  several  products,  such 
as  muskmelons,  cantaloupes  and  watermelons,  some- 
times classed  as  fruits  and  sometimes  as  vegetables, 
which,  of  course,  would  not  belong  to  any  one  of  these 
groups.  Tropical  fruits  are  not  so  easily  classified, 
though  the  citrus  family  (oranges,  lemons,  etc.)  includes 
many  of  the  more  common  sorts. 

There  are  a  few  vegetable  products  which  are  not 
fruits  in  any  botanical  sense,  but  which  by  common  con- 
sent are  included  in  this  class  of  food  products  since  their 
place  in  the  diet  is  the  same.  The  most  common  of 
these  products  is  rhubarb,  and  there  are  few  uses  of 
fruit  which  the  acid  rhubarb  stalk  does  not  serve.  Angel- 
ica stalks,  which  are  candied  and  used  for  making  cakes 
and  confectionery,  arc  much  less  common,  though  the 


total  amount  used  is  large.  It  is  certainly  more  nat- 
ural to  include  pi'eserved,  candied  and  crystallized  gin- 
ger root  with  candied  pineapple,  candied  cumquats  and 
similar  products  than  with  any  other  class  of  food  mate- 
rials, and  old-fashioned  candied  sweet  flag  root  may  also 
be  mentioned  in  this  connection. 

WILD   AND   CULTIVATED  FRUITS, 

In  an  account  of  the  first  Virginia  colony  it  is  stated 
that  the  Indians  ate  wild  mulberries,  crabapples,  and 
huckleberries,  but  nothing  is  said  of  their  cultivating 
fruits,  though  they  raised  corn  and  othere  vegetables. 
Wild  fruits  have  been  part  of  the  diet  of  primitive  man 
whenever  obtainable,  and  no  one  can  say  v/ith  certainty 
when  wild  varieties  were  first  cultivated,  but  it  must 
have  been  early  in  the  history  of  the  race,  since  sucii 
fruits  as  apples  and  pears  have  been  under  cultivation 
so  long  that  the  varieties  now  grown  have  scarcely  any 
resemblance  to  the  very  small,  woody,  inferior  fruit  of 
the  wild  parent.  As  a  country  becomes  more  thickly 
.settled,  less  and  less  reliance  can  be  placed  on  wild 
fruits,  and  the  market  gardener  and  fruit  grower  be- 
come of  increasing-  importance.    In  the  United  Si-"*-""- 


62 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


strawberries,  blackberries,  and  raspberries  are  examples 
of  fruit  which  are  still  eaten  both  wild  and  cultivated, 
and  cranberries  have  so  recently  come  under  cultiva- 
tion that  many  persons  still  think  of  them  as  a  wild  fruit. 
Huckleberries  and  blueberries  are  practically  unknown, 
except  as  they  grow  wild,  though  attempts  are  now  be- 
ing made  to  bring  the  blueberi-y  to  greater  perfection 
under  cultivation.  Among  little-known  wild  fruits  elder- 
berries and  scarlet  haws  or  thorn  apples,  to  give  them 
their  New  England  name,  may  be  mentioned.  Both  are 
used  for  jelly  making  to  some  extent  and  the  foi-mer 
for  other  purposes  also,  but  as  yet  neither  is  considered 
as  of  much  importance. 

It  would  be  difficult  to  say  why  some  fruits  which  are 
considered  to  be  fairly  palatable  and  equal  to  others 
which  are  generally  eaten  have  obtained  so  little  popu- 
larity. For  instance,  both  wild  and  cultivated  mulberries 
have  long  been  known  and  prized  by  many,  but  are  per- 
haps unknown  to  the  majority  of  persons  and  very  little 
used.  In  the  same  way  the  medlar,  a  fruit  closely  re- 
lated to  the  apple  and  common  enough  in  parts  of 
Europe,  is  almost  unknown  in  the  United  States,  though 
it  could  be  readily  grown,  if  desired. 

In  some  of  our  cultivated  fruits,  like  the  bapana,  seed 
Is  almost  never  found ;  in  the  case  of  others,  for  instance 
the  orange,  the  seedless  and  seed-bearing  varieties  are 
both  common;  but  in  the  majority  of  fruits  seeds  are 
present  in  greater  or  less  abundance.  It  has  been  said 
that  seedlessness  is  a  result  of  long-continued  cultiva- 
tion, but  it  seems  more  probable  that  the  seedless  fonns 
are  due  to  the  propagation  and  cultivation  of  natural 
sports  without  seeds.  Seedless  sports  are  by  no  means 
uncommon  in  wild  fruits.  Thus  the  native  American 
persimmon  is  now  and  then  found  bearing  seedless  fruit, 
and  such  a  form  could  be  perpetuated  by  horticulturists, 
if  need  be.  The  seedless  navel  orange  has  been  prop- 
agated in  recent  times  from  a  seedless  sport,  and  it  seems 
very  probable  that  bananas,  though  the  wild  forms  are 
commonly  full  of  seeds,  wez-e  propagated  from  a  seedless 
sport  in  times  too  remote  for  record.  Indeed,  it  may 
be  said  that  there  is  an  almost  universal  tendency  to 
cultivate  and  perpetuate  varieties  in  which  seeds  are  few 
in  number  or  small  in  size,  and  quite  naturally,  since 
such  fruits  are  more  convenient  to  use  and  contain  a 
higher  proportion  of  nutritive  material  in  a  given  bulk. 

In  genei'al,  it  is  ti-ue  that  size,  yield,  color,  flavor, 
texture  and  chemical  composition  are  modified  by  cul- 
tivation. 

The  commercial  fruit  grower,  of  course,  desires  a  fruit 
of  good  appeai'ance,  liaving  satisfactory  shipping  and 
keeping  qualities,  and  too  often  the  consumer  is  satisfied 
to  accept  a  product  in  which  such  qualities  predominate. 
Discriminating  purchasers,  however,  will  insist  on  good 
flavor,  texture  and  cooking  qualities  as  well,  and  such 
demands  should  be  more  often  urged  in  order  that  quality 
may  replace  appearance  as  a  standard  in  cultivating 
fruit  for  market. 

MARKET  CONDITIONS  AND  FRUIT  SUPPLY. 

The  fruit  market  has  been  very  greatly  modified  and 
extended  by  improved  methods  of  transportation  and 
storage.  A  man  need  not  be  very  old  to  remember  the 
time  when,  at  least  in  the  Northern  States,  bananas 
were  a  compai-ative  rarity  outside  the  large  cities,  and 
oranges  and  lemons,  though  common  commodities,  were 
rather  high  in  price.  In  the  summer  there  was  an 
abundance  of  the  common  garden  fruits,  but  in  winter 
apples  were  practically  the  only  sort  which  was  at  all 
plentiful.  A  few  years  have  witnessed  a  great  change, 
and  now  there  is  hardly  a  village  so  small  that  bananas 


and  other  southern  fruits  cannot  be  purchased  at  rea- 
sonable prices.  In  Europe  the  situation  is  much  the 
same.  Such  quantities  of  bananas  are  now  taken  to 
England  and  sold  at  such  reasonable  rates  that  they 
are  sometimes  spoken  of  there  as  the  poor  man's  fruit. 
At  the  present  time  there  are  a  number  of  fruits,  such 
as  avocados  or  "alligator  pears,"  mangoes  and  sapo- 
dillas,  which  are  fairly  well  known  in  our  large  markets 
though  seldom  seen  in  the  smaller  towns.  The  enormous 
development  of  the  fruit-growing  industry  in  California 
and  Florida,  which  includes  the  products  of  both  tem- 
perate and  warm  regions,  as  well  as  the  possibilities  of 
supplying  the  northern  markets  with  tropical  fruits 
from  Porto  Rico  and  Hawaii,  makes  it  probable  that 
within  a  few  years  the  avocado,  the  mango  and  other 
tropical  fruits  will  be  as  well  known  as  the  pomelo  or 
the  pineapple. 

Improvements  in  transportation  have  also  materially 
lengthened  the  season  of  many  fruits,  such  as  straw- 
berries, which  cannot  be  stored  for  any  considerable 
period.  Florida  and  the  Carolinas  now  send  their  berries 
to  northern  markets  months  before  the  home-grown  crop 
can  be  expected  and  several  weeks  before  that  from  tide- 
water Virginia  or  New  Jersey  is  ripe.  As  an  illustra- 
tion of  the  effect  of  improved  methods  in  shipping  fruit, 
it  may  be  mentioned  that  melons  from  the  south  of 
France,  hothouse  peaches  from  Belgium,  and  peaches, 
plums  and  other  fruits  from  South  Africa  are  now  sent 
to  our  American  markets  in  winter.  The  introduction 
or  origination  of  new  varieties  of  fruits  also  prolongs 
the  season.  As  an  instance  may  be  cited  the  Peen-to 
peach,  a  Chinese  variety,  which  can  be  successfully 
raised  in  Florida  and  Texas,  and  which  is  found  in  our 
northern  mai-kets  in  early  spring,  though  at  present  at 
prices  which  clearly  make  it  a  luxury.  Furthermore, 
improved  methods  of  culture  and  transportation  have 
extended  the  area  planted  to  old  and  well-known  va- 
rieties. 

COLOR  AND  FLAVOR  OF  FRUITS. 

Fruits,  like  leaves  and  flowers,  owe  their  varied  color 
to  a  number  of  chemical  compounds,  the  green  to  chloro- 
phyll (the  characteristic  coloring  matter  of  green  leaves), 
the  yellow  to  xanthin  bodies  and  other  yellow  pigments, 
and  the  blue  and  red  to  solutions  in  the  cell  sap  of 
complex  coloring  matters  which  have  in  most  cases 
been  isolated  and  classified.  Several  coloring  matters 
are  often  present  in  combination  and  give  rise  to  the 
great  variety  of  shades  which  different  fruits  present. 
In  white  fruits  coloring  matter  is  absent  from  the  epi- 
dermis and  the  cells  are  said  to  be  filled  with  air.  As 
fruits  develop,  mature,  and  deteriorate,  the  coloring  mat- 
ters present  undergo  marked  chemical  changes,  and 
color  is  one  of  the  most  common  means  of  judging  of 
ripeness. 

Attractive  color  has  a  decided  effect  on  market  value, 
and  the  public  demand  varies  greatly  in  different  re- 
gions. Thus,  a  yellow  or  russet  dessert  apple  is  de- 
manded in  the  French  market,  while  in  many  parts  of 
the  United  States  the  red  apple  has  the  preference,  A 
faded,  dull  color  is  often  an  indication  of  staleness; 
strawberries  and  raspberries  which  have  been  kept  too 
long  have  little  of  the  brilliant  color  of  freshly  gathered 
fruit.  That  fruit  colors  in  general  are  not  very  per- 
manent is  shown  by  the  way  the  color  deteriorates  on 
long-continued  cooking  or  fades  when  canned  and  pre- 
served fruits  are  exposed  to  the  light. 

In  preparing  such  fruits  as  plums,  peaches,  etc.,  for 
the  table,  the  skin  may  be  readily  removed,  without  in- 
jury to  the  flavor,  by  first  immersing  them  for  a  short 
time  in  boiling  hot  water.  A  silver  blade  should  always 


GOVERNMENT 


be  used  for  paring  apples,  pears  and  other  fruits,  as  if 
a  steel  knife  is  used  the  acid  of  the  fruit  acts  on  the 
iron  of  the  knife  and  frequently  causes  a  black  dis- 
coloration, and  there  is  also  very  commonly  a  notice- 
able metallic  flavor.  If  pared  or  cut  fruit  is  exposed 
to  the  air,  it  rapidly  turns  dark  in  color,  owing  to  the 
action  of  oxydases,  as  some  of  the  ferments  normally 
present  in  fruits  are  called,  upon  the  tannin  or  other 
readily  oxidizable  bodies  which  are  also  normal  fruit 
constituents. 

In  the  same  way  the  brown  color  of  the  bruised  spots 
in  apples  is  caused  by  oxidation  by  means  of  the  oxydases 
present  in  the  fruit  of  the  tannin  in  the  crushed  cells. 
Such  bruised  portions  contain  a  larger  proportion  of 
starch  than  the  rest  of  the  apple  because  the  tannin 
hinders  the  transformation  of  starch  into  sugar. 

In  investigations  carried  on  at  the  Oregon  Agricultu- 
ral Experiment  Station  with  a  view  to  preventing  the 
discoloration  of  evaporated  fruits  and  vegetables  it  was 
found  that  treating  sliced  apples  with  a  weak  solution 
of  common  salt  (1  to  2  per  cent.)  resulted  in  a  product 
which  was  very  bright  and  white  and  of  better  appear- 
ance than  that  obtained  by  the  well-known  domestic 
treatment  with  cold  water.  It  seems  probable  that  the 
Oregon  method  may  find  application  in  the  household. 

Fruits  owe  their  flavor  in  considerable  degree  to  the 
sugars  and  the  malic,  citric  and  other  acids  which  they 
contain,  but  the  flavor  which  is  so  characteristic  of  dif- 
ferent kinds  is  almost  entirely  due  to  ethereal  bodie^. 
The  amount  present  is  often  too  small  for  determination 
by  the  usual  chemical  methods.  However,  in  many 
cases  these  flavor-giving  bodies  have  been  studied  and 
their  chemical  nature  is  known. 

The  flavor  of  strawberries  has  been  shown  to  be  de- 
pendent in  part  at  least  upon  the  presence  of  a  volatile 
oil  with  pronounced  strawberry  odor  which  is  found  in 
small  proportions  in  the  extracted  fat  of  the  dried  berries. 
Recent  German  investigators  have  identified  the  com- 
pound ethers  which  give  bananas  their  characteristic 
flavor. 

With  the  orange  and  other  citrus  fruits  the  oil  found  in 
the  skin  has  a  vei-y  characteristic  odor  and  flavor  which 
are  always  associated  in  our  minds  with  the  flavor  of  the 
fruit.  Obviously,  the  small  amount  of  these  bodies  of 
pronounced  odor  and  flavor  cannot  materially  modify  the 
nutritive  value  of  fruits,  but  they  are  of  great  importance 
in  considering  the  place  of  fruit  in  the  diet,  as  they  are 
very  largely  responsible  for  its  attractiveness  and  pala- 
tability.  There  is  no  doubt  that  we  ail  eat  more  readily 
the  foods  which  please  our  palate  than  those  which  are 
of  indifferent  flavor,  and  there  is  every  reason  to  believe 
that  the  foods  which  please  ai'e  actually  digested  more 
easily  than  those  which  do  not,  since  they  stimulate  a 
normal  and  abundant  production  of  digestive  juices. 

COMPOSITION    OF  FRUITS. 

Determining  the  proportion  of  water,  protein,  fat,  car- 
bohydrates (nitrogen-free  extract  and  crude  fiber),  and 
ash  in  fruits  as  in  other  foods  furaishes  a  convenient 
basis  for  judging  of  their  relative  food  value.  It  is  quite 
common  for  chemists  to  determine,  instead  of  their  prox- 
imate constituents,  the  proportions  of  the  different  nitro- 
genous bodies  present,  as  well  as  the  amounts  of  the  dif- 
ferent sugars,  etc.,  which  in  the  ordinary  method  of 
analysis  are  grouped  with  the  other  carbohydrates. 

The  more  detailed  analyses  are  of  great  interest  and 
value  for  many  reasons,  but  with  our  present  knowledge 
it  seems  fair  to  assume  that  the  various  sugars  and 
■tarches,  for  instance,  have  the  same  nutritive  value,  and 


COOK   BOOK  63 


so  a  knowledge  of  the  total  quantity  of  these  bodies 
pi-esent  gives  very  satisfactory  data  for  estimating  the 
food  value  of  the  group.  Very  many  analyses  and  studies 
of  fruit  and  fruit  products  have  been  made  by  chemists 
of  the  agricultural  experiment  stations,  as  well  as  by 
the  different  bureaus  of  the  Department  of  Agriculture. 
Table  1  summarizes  a  large  amount  of  such  data  and 
shows  the  composition  of  fresh,  dried  and  preserved  fruits 
and  fruit  products,  and  for  comparison  the  composition  of 
a  few  other  foods  as  well.  In  this  table  and  the  discussions 
which  follow,  attention  has  been  given  especially  to  the 
fruit  of  northern  and  temperate  regions  and  no  attemjit 
has  been  made  to  summarize  the  considerable  amount  of 
data  available  regai'ding  ti'opical  fruits,  except  some 
which  are  grown  in  the  United  States  or  which  are  fairly 
well  known  at  least  in  the  larger  markets.  Special 
studies  of  tropical  fruits  have  been  made  by  the  Cali- 
fornia and  the  Maine  experiment  stations,  and  the  Bureau 
of  Chemistry  of  this  department  has  reported  an  extended 
series  of  investigations  of  such  fruits  and  the  jams  and 
preserves  made  from  them. 

Most  of  the  fruits  and  fruit  products  included  in  the 
table  are  too  well  known  to  need  description.  Of  those 
which  are  less  familiar,  tlie  avocado  or  "alligator  pear" 
is  a  green  or  purple  fruit  not  unlike  an  eggplant  in  ap- 
pearance. The  portion  eaten  is  the  pulp  which  surrounds 
the  single  large  seed.  In  texture  it  is  soft  and  somewhat 
like  butter,  and  to  this  quality  it  doubtless  owes  the 
name  "midshipmen's  butter,"  given  to  it  in  the  days  of 
sailing  vessels.  The  avocado  is  eaten  in  a  variety  of 
ways,  but  is  most  commonly  served  as  a  salad.  This  fruit 
has  a  delicate  almost  nut-like  flavor,  and  is  every  year 
becoming  more  popular. 

The  fniits  of  several  sorts  of  cactus  are  very  com- 
monly eaten  in  Mexico  and  other  regions  where  cactus  is 
abundant,  and  are  common  though  less  well  known  in 
New  Mexico  and  the  Southwest.  Under  the  name  of 
prickly  pear  or  Indian  fig  fresh  cactus  fruits,  particu- 
larly the  oblong,  oval,  yellowish  or  reddish  fruits  of 
Opuntia  ficus  indica,  showing  here  and  there  character- 
istic tufts  of  fine  spines  or  bristles,  are  occasionally  seen 
at  certain  seasons  of  the  year  in  large  fruit  shops.  Cac- 
tus fruits  may  be  used  for  jam  making  and  in  similar 
ways.  A  rather  hard  solid  preserve  or  "cactus  cheese," 
which  may  sometimes  contain  nuts,  is  a  Mexican  sweet- 
meat. 

Many  varieties  of  the  guava,  a  very  aromatic  tropical 
and  sub-tropical  fruit,  are  grown  in  the  warmer  regions 
of  the  United  States,  and  its  uses  are  so  varied  that  it  ij 
often  said  the  guava  occupies  much  the  same  place  ia 
cookery  in  the  Tropics  as  the  apple  in  northern  regions. 
The  fresh  fruit  is  seldom  seen  outside  the  regions  where 
it  is  grown,  but  guava  jelly  and  guava  paste  are  com- 
mon commercial  products,  and  have  been  popular  ever 
since  the  days  when  the  West  India  merchantmen  brought 
these  delicacies,  preserved  tamarinds,  and  oranges  axi' 
lemons  to  our  northern  markets  as  well  as  such  stapla 
goods  as  sugar  and  molasses. 

The  roselle  or  Jamaica  sorrel  is  the  fruit  of  a  widely 
distributed  tropical  hibiscus  which  is  grown  extensively 
in  California  and  Florida.  The  fruits  somewhat  re- 
semble okra  in  form,  ai'e  of  a  dark  magenta  color,  and 
have  an  acid  flavor  much  like  that  otf  cranberries.  They 
are  used  for  jams,  jellies,  etc. 

The  Surinam  cherry  is  the  fruit  of  a  South  American 
tropical  shrub  now  grown  to  a  limited  extent  in  south- 
ern Florida  and  California.  It  is  about  the  size  and 
shape  of  an  ordinary  cherry,  and  owes  its  common  Eng- 
lish name  to  this  fact.  The  fruit  is  brio-ht  red  in  color, 
and  has  a  sharp  btit  jpleasant  acid  £lavii>   TJw  Surinam 


64 


'  GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


cherry  is  used  for  jelly  making,  etc.,  but  is  seldom  a 
commercial  product. 

The  loquat,  commonly  though  incorrectly  called  the 
Japan  plum,  is  grown  to  a  considerable  extent  in  the 
southern  United  States.  The  small,  yellowish,  plum-like 
fruits  are  almost  translucent  when  ripe,  and  are  covered 
with  a  downy  fuzz  or  bloom.  The  pulp  is  soft  and  tender 
and  quite  tart  until  fully  ripe.  The  flavor  is  distinct  and 
agreeable.  Loquats  are  used  both  raw  and  cooked,  and 
both  fresh  and  preserved  fruits  are  commercial  products. 

The  sapodilla,  a  tropical  fruit  which  thrives  in  regions 
like  the  warmer  parts  of  Florida,  suggests  a  good  sized 
russet  apple  in  appearance,  but  when  broken  open  is  quite 
different  in  character,  as  it  contains  a  number  of  rather 
large  flat  brown  seeds  embodied  in  a  tender  brownish 
white  pulp.  The  flavor  is  characteristic,  and  to  some 
palates  suggests  a  combination  of  a  pleasant  mild  acid 
•with  caramel  or  brown  sugar.  The  sapodilla  is  a  not 
uncommon  commercial  fruit  in  large  fruit  shops. 

Perhaps  no  fruit  of  the  Tropics  is  more  often  discussed 
than  the  mango,  some  persons  being  exceedingly  fond  of 
this  juicy  aromatic  fruit,  while  others  are  as  outspoken 
in  their  dislike.  There  are  countless  varieties  of  the 
mango,  and  many  of  them  have  a  rank  tui-pentine-like 
flavor  and  are  very  fibrous.  These  qualities  are  not 
apparent,  however,  in  the  best  varieties,  which  are  of 
very  delicate  flavor  and  very  palatable.  The  fruit  is 
cooked  in  a  variety  of  ways,  being  a  staple  article  of 
diet  in  the  Tropics,  and  is  also  eaten  fresh.  Some  diffi- 
culty is  experienced  in  shipping  mangoes,  as  the  flesh  is 
very  juicy  and  tender,  but  they  are  occasionally  found 
in  market  at  least  as  far  north  as  Washington,  D.  C. 

AVERAGE     COMPOSITION     OF     FRUITS     AND  FRUIT 
PRODUCTS. 


Kind  of  Fruit. 


Edible  Portion. 


Carbo- 
hydrates. 


o  < 


FRESH  FRUITS. 

Apples   

Apricots   

Avocado   

Bananas   

Blackberries  

Cactus  fruit   

Cherries  

Cranberries   

Currants   

Currants  (black) 

Figs   

Gooseberries  

Grapes   

Guava   

Huckleberries  ..  .. 

I^emons   

boquat   

Mango   

Medlar   

Mulberry   

Mu.skmelons  

Nectarines   

Olives   

Oranges   

Peaches   

Pears   

Persimmons  

Persimmons  (Jap.) 

Phieapples   

Plums   

Pomegranates  .  .. 

Prunes   

P.!i.=pberrles  (red). 
xcasi^X'.-ries  (bl'k). 

T.'ed  bilberry   

Khur,<s.:b  .stalks  .. 

Roselle  caly.K   

RoseUe  pod   

Sapodilla   

Scarlet  haws   

Strawberries   

Surinam  cherry  .. 
Watermelons  ..  .. 
Whortleberries  ... 


P.ct. 
25.0 
6.0 
29.0 
35.0 


5.0, 


25.0 


30.0 
'40.0 


BO.O 
0.6 
17.9 
27.0 
18.0 
10.0 
25.0 
24.0 
40.0 
5.0 
30.0 
5.8 


40.0 


40.0 
20.0 
5.0 

I  "59.4 


P.ct. 
84.6 
85.0 
81.1 
75.3 
86.3 
79.2 
80.9 
88.9 
85,0 
79.0 
79.1 
85.6 
77.4 
82.9 
81.9 
89.3 
77.9 
87.4 
74.6 
84.7 
89.5 
82.9 
67.0 
86.9 
89.4 
80.9 
66.1 
80.2 
89.3 
78.4 
76.8 
79.6 
85.8 
84.1 
89.6 
91.4 
86.5 
84.0 
77.9 
75.8 
90.4 
85.0 
92.4 
82. 4 1 


P.ct 
0.4 
1.1 
1.0 
1.3 
1.3 
1.4 
1.0 
.4 
1.5 
.5 
1.5 
1.0 
1.3 
1.3 
.6 
1.0 
.2 
.6 
.5 
.4 
.6 
.6 
2.5 
.8 
.7 
1.0 
.8 
1.4 
.4 
1.0 
1.5 
.9 
1.0 
1.7 
.1 
.6 
2.1 
1.7 
.5 
2.0 
1.0 
.4 
.4 


P.ct. 
0.5 


10.2 
.6 
1.0 
1.3 
.8 
.6 


.3 


17.1 
,2 
'~\ 
.5 
.7 
.6 
.3 


1.6 


1.0 
.3 
.7 
.3 
1.0 
1.6 


P.ct.|P.ct 
13.0|  1.2 
13.4 
6.8 
21.0 


8.4 
11.7 
16.5 
8.4 
12.8 
13.11 
18.8 

I. 3.1 
14.91 

8.0| 

16.6 
7.4 
20.2 
9.9 
16.5 

14.3 
7.2| 

15.9 
5.7| 

II.  6 
5.8 

15.7 
29.7 
15.1 
9.3 
20.1 
16.81 
18.9 
9.7| 
12.6 
3.81 
2.51 
10.3 
12.2 
16.6 
18.6 
6.0 
i:!.9 
6.7 

io.;;| 


2.9 


ct.lCal'r's. 

0.3 

290 

.5 

270 

.9 

512 

.8 

460 

.5 

270 

2.7 

375 

.6 

365 

.2 

215 

.7 

265 

1.0 

370 

.6 

380 

255 

450 

.5 

315 

.3 

345 

.5 

205 

1.1 

395 

.5 

220 

.6 

455 

.6 

280 

.6 

185 

.6 

305 

4.4 

407 

.5 

240 

.4 

190 

.4 

163 

.9 

630 

.6 

174 

200 

!5 

S95 

.6 

,  460 

.6 

370 

.6 

255 

.6 

.^10 

^2 

190 

!7 

105 

.8 

235 

1.1 

290 

.6 

425 

.8 

212 

.6 

ISO 

.7 

260 

HO 

.41  330 

AVERAGE     COMPOSITION     OF     FRUITS     AND  FRUIT 
PRODUCTS— Continued. 


Kind  of  Fruit. 


Edible  Portion. 


5 

!? 

6 

a 

2. 

X 

5' 

trac 

Carbo- 
liydrates. 


a  <i 
c  P 


DRIED  FRUITS. 

Apples   

Apricots   

Bananas   

Banana  flour  ... 

Citrons   

Dates   

Figs   

Pears   

Prunes   

Raisins   

Raspberries  ..  .. 
St.  .John's  bread. 
Zante  currants 

(English  c'rants) 

CANN'D  FRUITS 
PRESERVES, 
JELLIES,  ETC. 

Crab  apples   

Apple  sauce   

Apricots   

Apricot  sauce   

Blackberries  

Blueberries  

Cherries   

Cherry  jelly   

Figs,  stewed   

Grape  butter   

Olives,  green 
pickled   

Olives,  ripe,  pickl'd 

Orange  marm'lade 

Peaches   

Pears   

Pineapples  

Prunes,  stewed  ... 

Str'wberries,  st'wd 

Angelica  stalks 
(candied)   

Apricots  (candied) 

Cherries  (candied) 

Citron  (candied).. 

Ginger  root  (can- 
died)   


FRUIT  PR'D'CTS. 

Olive  oil   

Raspberry  juice  . . 
Unf'rmented  grape 
juice   


OTHER  FOODS 
FOR 

COMPARISON. 

Cabbage   

Potatoes   

Wheat  flour,  high 

grade   

Corn  meal,  bolted. 

White  bread   

Beans,  dried   

Honey   

Sugar,  granulated. 
Butter   


P.ct.|P.ct.|P.ct.|P. 
26.1)  1.6 
29.4 
29.2! 
9, 
19.0 
15.4 
18.8 
16.5 
22.3 
14.6 
8.1 
17.3 


10.0 


15.01 
10.01 


27.0 
19.0 


4.7 
5.3 
3.1 
.5 
2.1 
4.3 
2.8 
2.I1 
2.6, 
7.3 
5.7 


ct.lP 
2.2 
1.0 
2.3 

.5: 
1.5 
2.8 

.3 
5.4 


17.21  2.4 


42.4 
61.1 
81.4 
45.2 
40.0 
85.6 
77.2 
21.0 
56.5 
36. 

58.0 
64.7 
14.5 
88.1 
81.1 
61.8 
76.6 
74.8 

10.4 
14.4 
12.1 
18.2 

•i  12.3 


15.0 
20.0 


49.3 
92.2 


91.5 
78.3 

12.0 
12.5 
35.3 
12.6 
18.2 


.|  11.0 


.3 
.2 
.9 
1.9 
.8; 
.6 
1.1 
1.1 
1.2 
1.2 

1.1 
1.7 
.6 
.7 
.3 
.4 
.5 


1.3 
2.1 
.6 
.1 


0.3 
.1 

27.6 
25.9 
.1 
.1 
.3 
.7 
.1 


100.0 


1.6 
2.2 

11.4 
9.2 
9.2 

22.5 
.4 


1.0 


.3 
.1 

1.0 
1.9 
1.3 
1.8 


85.0 


ct.|P. 

62.o; 

62.5 
55.81 
83.4] 

78.1 
74.6| 
68.0] 
66.01 
71.21 
73.61 

80.2 
67.0 


71.2 


54.4 
.37.2 
17.3 
48.8 
56.4 
12.S 
21.1 
77.2 
40.9 
58.5 
I 

11.6 
4.3 
84.5 
10.8 
18.0 
36.4 
22.3 
24.0 


87.3 
83.0 
86.1 
77.6 

86.1 


49.9 
6.9 


4.5 
13.0 

74.8 
74.4 
52.6 
55.2 
81.2 
100.0, 
 I 


1.5 
1.1 
.5 
1.0 


'.ct.ICa 
2.01 
2.4 
5.3 
2.6 
.9 
1.3 
2.4 
2.4 
2.3 
3.4 
2.6 
2.5 


4.5 


.4 
2.8 
.71 
.4 
.5 
.7 
1.1 
3.5 

1.7 

3.4 
.3 
.3 

.3, 
.7 
.5i 
.5 

.6 
.7 

.6 
3.0 


I'r's. 

1.350 
1,290 
1,240 
1,610 
1.525 
1,615 
1,475 
1,635 
1,400 
1,605 
1,705 
1,480 

1,495 


1.0 


1.120 
730 
340 

1,000 

1,150 
275 
415 

1,455 
785 

1,115 

1,400 
1,205 
1.585 
220 
355 
715 
430 
460 

1,550 
1,445 
1,455 
1.380 

1,520 


4,0.'^5 
935 

150 


145 

385 

1,650 
1,655 
1,215 
1,605 
1,520 
1,S60 
3,605 


Most  fruits,  like  other  classes  of  foods,  contain  more 
or  less  material,  such  as  pits,  skin,  etc.,  which  is  inedible. 
When  such  portions  are  removed  a  larger  or  smaller 
part  of  the  edible  material  is  almost  always  of  necessity 
removed  also,  and  is  spoken  of  as  "waste."  In  reporting 
analyses  the  amounts  of  inedible  material  and  waste  are 
grouped  together  under  the  heading  "refuse."  As  may 
be  seen  from  the  above  table,  the  proportion  of  refuse 
in  fruits  varies  within  rather  wide  limits.  Thus,  of  pears 
it  constitutes  on  an  average  10  per  cent,  of  the  total  fruit, 
peaches  18  per  cent.,  apples  and  grapes  25  per  cent.,  and 
bananas  35  per  cent.,  while  in  the  case  of  raspberries 
and  blackberries  there  is  no  refuse  and  the  whole  fruit 
can  be  eaten. 

The  analytical  data  quoted  above  show  that  fresh 
fruits  are  in  general  dilute  foods — that  is,  the  propor- 
tion of  water  which  they  contain  is  large,  compared  with 
the  total  amount  of  nutritive  material.  It  has  been 
suggested  that  fruits  containing  80  per  cent,  or  more  of 
water  be  classed  as  flavor  fruits  and  those  with  less  than 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


65 


80  per  cent,  as  food  fruits.  As  may  be  seen  from  the 
table,  such  fruits  as  strawberries,  blackberries  and  rasp- 
berries would  be  included  in  the  first  class,  and  fresh 
figs,  bananas,  grapes,  etc.,  in  the  second.  In  dried  fruits 
which  have  been  concentrated  by  evaporation  the  per- 
centage of  nutrients  is  very  much  higher  than  in  fresh 
fruits.  Some  preserved  fruits  also  possess  a  compara- 
tively high  nutritive  value,  owing  to  the  evaporation  of 
water  by  the  heat  of  cooking  or  to  the  addition  of  sugar, 
or  to  both  factors.  Candied  fruits,  such  as  cherries  and 
apricots,  which  are  included  in  the  table,  may  be  looked 
upon  as  typical  examples  of  this  class  of  fruit  products. 
As  i-egards  composition,  the  water  content  is  low  and  the 
carbohydrates  and  consequently  the  energy  value  is  very 
high,  owing  to  the  added  sugar. 

Olives  and  the  avocado  are  remarkable  for  the  large 
percentage  of  fat  which  they  contain,  but  in  general  it 
may  be  said  that  this  constituent  is  present  in  very  small 
proportion  in  fresh  fruits.  In  the  case  of  the  apple, 
pear,  etc.,  it  seems  probable  that  the  small  amount  of 
fat  obtained  in  chemical  analysis  consists  of  the  color- 
ing matter  contained  in  the  fruit  or  of  wax  found  in  the 
skin.  That  the  amount  of  wax  may  be  considerable  is 
evident  when  we  recall  the  fact  that  fruit  wax  is  collected 
from  bay  berries  and  other  fruits  in  quantities  sufficient 
for  candle  making  and  other  purposes.  That  common 
fruits  actually  contain  fat,  though  it  is  not  generally 
associated  with  them,  is  shown  by  a  recently  published 
study  of  the  fat  of  woods  strawberries.  The  dried  berries 
when  extracted  yielded  a  small  amount  of  oil,  cloudy  at 
ordinary  temperatures,  but  clear  when  heated,  and  much 
like  linseed  oil  in  its  properties. 

In  the  majority  of  fruits  and  fruit  products  the  carbo- 
hydrates are  the  food  constituents  most  abundantly  rep- 
resented. The  figures  in  the  table  show  that  the  pro- 
portion of  nitrogen-free  extract  varies  greatly,  being 
lowest  in  the  fresh  and  highest  in  the  dried  and  preserved 
fruits.  It  is  interesting  to  consider  also  the  values  which 
have  been  reported  for  some  of  the  constituents  not  shown 
in  the  table,  but  included  in  the  group  of  "nitrogen-free 
extract."  In  seeds  which  are  commonly  eaten,  such  as 
the  cereal  grains,  and  beans,  peas  and  other  legumes,  the 
nitrogen-free  extract  is  quite  largely  made  up  of  starches. 
In  fruits,  however,  sugars  and  the  so-called  pectin  bodies, 
with  very  often  more  or  less  starch,  make  up  the  group. 
The  principal  sugars  in  fruit  are  cane  sugar,  grape 
sugar  (glucose),  and  fruit  sugar  (levulose),  the  last  two 
being  usually  present  together  in  equal  quantity  and 
designated  invert  sugar  or  reducing  sugar.  The  stage  of 
growth  and  the  degree  of  ripeness  have  a  very  marked 
effect  on  the  kind  and  amount  of  sugar,  and  it  is  there- 
fore difficult  to  give  average  figures  for  the  quantities 
present  which  will  be  fairly  representative.  An  idea  of 
the  range  in  the  sugar  content  of  ripe  fruits  may  be 
gathered  from  figures  quoted  from  a  summary  published 
several  years  ago.  According  to  these  data,  invert  sugar 
ranged  from  2  per  cent,  in  round  numbers  in  large  early 
apricots  to  15  per  cent,  in  grapes  and  a  variety  of  sweet 
cherries.  A  number  of  fruits  (strawberries,  gooseberries, 
raspberries  and  apples)  contained  about  half  the  latter 
quantity.  The  cane  sugar  ranged  from  less  than  1  per 
cent,  in  lemons  to  14  per  cent,  in  a  variety  of  plums. 
Bananas  also  contained  a  fairly  large  percentage,  namely, 
11  per  cent. 

Fruit  sugar  rarely  occurs  unaccompanied  by  grape 
sugar,  but  has  been  thus  reported  in  the  mango  and  in 
amounts  large  in  proportion  to  the  grape  sugar  in  sweet 
apples  and  sweet  pears  and  a  number  of  varieties  of 
grapes.  In  the  case  of  grape  sugar  large  amounts — 18 
to  30  per  cent.— have  been  reported  in  juice  of  different  ' 


sorts  of  grapes,  while  in  dried  fruits  the  values  are  evcm 
higher,  32  per  cent,  having  been  found  in  prunes,  54  per 
cent  in  Zante  or  ''English"  currants,  which  are,  of  course, 
a  small  seedless  grape,  61  per  cent,  in  raisins,  48  per 
cent,  in  figs,  and  66  per  cent,  in  dates. 

The  acid  in  fruits,  which  in  proximate  analyses  is  not 
usually  determined  separately,  varies  within  rather  wid« 
limits,  1  to  2  per  cent,  being  reported  on  an  average  in 
such  fruits  as  apples,  pears,  plums,  strawberries,  etc.,  and 
as  high  as  7  per  cent,  or  more  in  lemon  juice.  It  often 
happens  that  of  two  fruits  with  the  same  acid  content 
one  has  a  much  sourer  taste  than  the  other,  because  the 
acid  is  not  so  much  masked  by  sugar. 

Fruits  contain  a  comparatively  small  amount  of  min- 
eral matter,  less  than  1  per  cent,  on  an  average — con- 
sisting quite  largely  of  postassium  salts,  with  a  little 
phosphoric  acid,  iron,  lime,  etc. 

As  a  class,  it  is  apparent  that  fresh  fruits  are  directly 
comparable  with  green  vegetables  and  root  crops  rather 
than  with  more  concentrated  foods,  such  as  flour  or  meal. 
The  dried  and  some  of  the  preserved  fruits,  which  are 
more  concentrated  than  the  fresh,  compai*e  favorably 
with  bread,  dried  beans  and  similar  foods  on  the  basis 
of  total  food  material  present.  There  is  this  difference, 
however,  that  the  cereals  and  dried  legumes  contain  fairly 
large  proportions  of  protetin,  while  the  quantity  present 
in  fruits  is  always  small.  In  other  words,  fruits — fresh, 
dried  and  preserved— are  sources  of  energy  rather  than 
of  tissue-forming  material. 

Grape  juice  and  other  freshly  expressed  juices  are 
pleasant  and  wholesome  beverages.    They  are  common';/ 
preserved  for  winter  use  at  home  as  well  as  on  a  cor,  - 
mercial  scale  by  sterilizing  in  bottles.    The  fruit  ji^i 
are  dilute  foods,  as  the  figures  given  for  grape  j 
indicate.     Fruit  syrups  made  by  adding  sugar  *o 
juice  are  extensively  used  in  the  household  and  in  ol 
ways.    The  food  value  of  such  articles  is,  of  course  ■  <;<>.. 
siderably  increased  by  the  sugar  which  thej,  contain. 

In  connection  with  the  subject  of  fruit  juices  and 
syrups,  it  may  be  of  interest  to  mention  the  Turkish 
preparation,  which  is  made  by  evaporating  grape  juice 
until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  molasses,  then  thickening 
with  flour  or  starch,  and  spreading  it  out  to  dry  in  the 
sun  in  thin  sheets.  This  product  is  not  unlike  the  peach 
leather,  which  is  an  old  fashioned  domestic  product  still 
made  to  some  extent  in  much  the  same  way  in  the  south- 
ern United  States  by  drying  crushed  peach  pulp  on  plat- 
ters in  an  oven.  Plum  leather  is  also  sometimes  made  in 
the  same  way.  After  soaking  in  water  for  some  hours 
peach  leather  is  ready  for  use  on  the  table  or  for  making 
puddings,  etc.  Another  Turkish  preparation  called  sujuk 
or  rojik  is  made  by  stringing  walnuts  on  pieces  of  stout 
twine  about  a  yard  long  and  immersing  them  in  a  mix- 
ture of  grape  molasses  and  flour.  After  receiving  a 
coating  about  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick  they  are  with- 
drawn and  hung  up  to  dry,  and  may  then  be  preserved 
in  jars  in  good  condition  for  a  few  months.  Sujuk  is 
said  to  be  an  excellent  article  of  food  and  palatable. 
Sometimes  wheat  grits  are  used  to  thicken  the  grape 
syrup,  and  the  nut  and  syrup  mixture  is  made  in  the 
form  of  cakes  about  one-half  an  inch  thick  when  dried. 

Vinegar,  which  contains  about  3  per  cent  of  e-ttractive 
material  and  0.5  per  cent,  ash,  in  addition  to  6  per  cent, 
acetic  acid  and  ovftr  90  per  cent,  water,  is  one  of  the 
oldest  fruit  prodnots  and  also  one  of  the  oldest  and  most 
common  condiments  and  household  preservatives.  It 
owes  is  use  in  the  diet  to  flavor  and  other  qualities,  rather 
than  to  the  vei-y  small  amount  of  nutritive  material  which 
it  may  contain.  Honey  viengar,  malt  vinegar,  etc.,  are 
well  known,  but  vnegar  made  from  fruit  juice  is  far 


66 


GOVERNMENT  COOK  BOOK 


more  common.  By  fermentation  the  sugar  in  the  original 
material  is  converted  into  acetic  acid,  and  to  this  the 
vinegar  largely  owes  its  flavor,  though  the  salts  and 
other  materials  originally  present  in  the  fruit  juices 
have  an  effect  upon  this  quality.  Vinegar  made  from 
apple  juice — that  is,  cider  vinegar — has  always  had  a 
reputation  for  good  quality,  though  other  fruit  juices  are 
©f  considerable  importance  in  domestic  vinegar  making, 
banana  vinegar  being  one  of  the  sorts  which  is  rather 
favorably  known  in  regions  where  this  fruit  is  grown. 
The  acid  juice  of  lemons  and  limes  is  used  like  vinegar 
as  a  condiment,  and  many  persons  consider  that  lemon 
juice  is  more  delicate.  It  is  sometimes  claimed  that  it  is 
more  wholesome  also,  but  this  seems  hardly  more  than 
a  matter  of  opinion,  as  there  is  no  reason  to  suppose 
that  the  small  amounts  of  vinegar  ordinarily  used  are 
In  any  way  harmful. 

Verjuice,  the  expressed  acid  juice  of  green  apples,  crab- 
apples,  or  other  unripe  fruit,  was  formerly  used  as  a 
condiment  and  was  greatly  prized.  It  has  survived  in 
modem  cookery  in  a  limited  way  and  may  occasionally 
serve  a  useful  purpose  when  lemon  juice  is  not  readily 
obtainable. 

RIPENING  AND  ITS  EFFECT  ON  COMPOSITION 

As  fruits  grow  to  their  full  size  and  ripen  they  undergo 
marked  changes  in  chemical  composition  with  respect  both 
to  the  total  and  to  the  relative  amount  of  the  different 
chemical  bodies  present.  When  stored  after  gathering, 
the  changes  continue,  some  fruits  improving  on  storage 
and  others  deteriorating  very  rapidly.  In  general,  ripe 
fruits  are  less  acid  than  green  and  contain  less  starch, 
woody  material,  crude  fiber  and  the  cnbuhydrates  com- 
monly referred  to  as  pectin  bodies,  and  correspondingly 
larger  amounts  of  the  diffei'ent  sugars. 

Fruits  contain  oxydases  and  other  ferments,  an:!  these 
are  believed  to  play  a  very  important  part  in  th'^  chemicnl 
changes  which  accompany  growth  and  maturity.  Many 
diverse  views  have  been  expressed  regarc'jn<r  the  exact 
nature  and  extent  of  the  processes  involve  1  and  the  com- 
pounds formed  in  ripening  fruit.  The  qr.Gsvion  as  a 
whole  has  been  a  favorite  one  with  cher>iists,  and  the 
agricultural  experiment  stations  have  made  a  member 
of  important  contributions  to  the  subject.  One  of  the 
most  recent  and  valuable  contributions,  both  from  a  biblio- 
graphical and  from  a  chemical  standpoint,  is  the  series 
of  investigations  published  by  Bigelow  and  his  associates, 
of  the  Bureau  of  Chemistry  of  the  Department  of  Agri- 
culture, on  the  ripening  of  winter  and  summer  apples  and 
of  peaches.  With  winter  apples  it  was  f mnd  that  the 
starch  increases  from  early  summer  until  the  maximum 
is  reached  in  midsummer  and  then  decreases  and  finally 
disappears.  The  malic  acid  content  decreases  from  early 
summer  until  maturity,  while  cane  sugar  and  invert 
sugar  increases. 

In  the  case  of  peaches,  as  the  fruit  develops  from  early 
Bummer  to  ripeness  the  proportion  of  {\e^h  increases  and 
the  pit  decreases.  During  this  period  the?  weight  of  re- 
ducing sugars  increases  about  eight  times  and  that  of 
^cane  sugar  or  sucrose  and  acids  considerably  more  than 
this.  An  increase  is  also  noted  with  the  v.\rious  forms  of 
niti'ogenous  substances.  Throughout  the  whole  period  of 
growth  the  proportion  of  solids  to  water  in  the  flesh  of 
the  peach  remains  fairly  constant.  The  pit,  on  the  other 
hand,  becomes  harder  and  the  percentage  of  water  in  it 
decreases  as  growth  pi-ogresses.  It  is  interesting  to  note 
that  throughout  the  whole  period  of  growth  no  appreciable 
.mount  of  starch  is  found  in  the  peach.  Between  the 
,{ondition  known  as  market  ripeness  and  full  ripeness  con- 


siderable growth  takes  place  in  the  peach,  there  being 
an  increase  in  both  water  and  solid  matter  and  in  re- 
ducing sugar  and  cane  sugar.  A  German  investigator 
found  that  when  black  currants  were  picked  when  slightly 
green  and  kept  for  a  few  days  there  was  an  increase  in 
the  sugar  and  a  decrease  in  the  acid  content.  The  changes 
which  take  place  in  gooseberries  do  not  appear  to  be 
of  the  same  character.  Picked  when  green,  they  contain 
3.9  per  cent,  sugar  and  27.2  per  cent.  acid.  When  stored 
at  a  cool  temperature  for  six  days  they  had  taken  on  the 
dark  color  of  ripe  berries  and  contained  somewhat 
smaller  proportions  of  both  sugar  and  acid. 

A  knowledge  of  the  changes  which  accompany  the 
growth,  ripening,  and  storage  of  fruits  is  very  important 
commercially  as  well  as  from  the  housekeeper's  stand- 
point. For  instance,  in  cider  making,  it  is  desirable  that 
the  fruit  should  be  used  when  the  sugar  content  is  high, 
as  the  quality  of  cider  and  vinegar  is  largely  determined 
by  the  amount  of  sugar  present.  As  every  housewife 
knows,  underripe  fruit — that  is,  fruit  which  still  contains 
the  so-called  pectin  bodies  rather  than  the  sugars  and 
other  carbohydrates  characteristic  of  fully  ripened  fruit — 
is  the  most  satisfactory  for  jelly  making.  In  the  case  of 
bananas  the  underripe  fruit,  rich  in  starch,  is  best  for 
cooking,  and  the  very  i-ipe  fruit,  in  which  the  starch  has 
been  changed  into  sugar,  for  use  uncooked.  It  is  not  un- 
likely that  failure  to  recognize  this  distinction  is  respon- 
sible for  the  digestive  disturbance  which  many  persons  ex- 
perience when  bananas  are  eaten,  as  the  raw,  underripe, 
starchy  fruits  are  generally  conceded  to  be  difficult  of  di- 
gestion. '  The  underripe  bananas,  when  dried,  sliced  and 
ground,  yield  a  flour  or  meal  rich  in  starch,  while  the 
riper  fruit  with  the  higher  sugar  content,  sliced  and  dried, 
is  very  sweet  and  not  unlike  figs  in  flavor  and  com- 
position. 

WAYS    OF   SERVING  FRUIT. 

As  regards  the  way  in  which  they  are  served  fi'uits 
range  from  the  muskmelon.  watermelon,  and  avocado,  al- 
most never  coolced,  to  cranberries  and  the  ordinary  va- 
rieties of  quince,  which  are  not  eaten  raw.  The  methods 
of  preparation  are  quite  varied,  including  drying  or 
evaporating,  and  baking,  boiling,  and  stewing,  while  quan- 
tities of  fruit  are  uFfd  in  puddings,  pies  and  other  dishes, 
and  for  the  preparation  of  jams,  jellies  and  preserves. 
Fruit  juices  are  used  for  beverages,  and  both  fruits  and 
the  juices  are  very  commonly  prepared  for  the  table  by 
freezing,  fruit  ices  being  considered  as  among  the  most 
appetizing  desserts.  Some  fi'uits,  notably  the  green  and 
the  ripe  olive  and  less  generally  the  lime,  are  prepared 
for  the  table  by  pickling  in  brine. 

Even  a  casual  examination  of  cookery  books  and  the 
periodical  literature  devoted  to  such  topics  shows  that  the 
ways  in  which  fruits  and  fruit  products  can  be  cooked 
and  served  are  practically  endless.  The  housewife  who 
desires  to  vary  her  menu  by  the  use  of  more  fruit  and 
fruit  dishes  can  do  so  very  i-eadily  by  consulting  such 
sources  of  information. 

The  temperature  at  which  fresh  fruits  a''e  eaten  is 
largely  a  matter  of  fashion  or  individual  taste.  With  the 
increased  use  of  ice  in  our  homes  during  recent  years  it 
has  become  a  very  common  custom  to  serve  fruits  colder 
than  was  formerly  the  case.  Cool  or  even  cold  fruits  are 
very  refreshin";'  and  many  prefer  them  served  thus.  There 
are  others,  however,  who  maintan  that  overchilling  les- 
sens the  delicate  flavor  and  accentuates  the  acid  taste. 
They  insist  that  the  fruits  gathered  in  the  cool  of  the  day 
and  stored  in  a  cool  but  not  a  cold  place  are  at  their  best. 
Still  others  find  them  sweetest  and  most  palatable  when 
brought  from  the  garden  warmed  by  the  sun. 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


B7 


PLACE  OF  FRUIT  IN  THE  DIET. 

In  TOost  families  fruits  are  commonly  thought  of  as  a 
food  accessory,  and  are  prized  for  their  pleasant  flavor 
or  for  supposed  hygienic  reasons  rather  than  for  their 
food  value;  yet  a  study  of  available  figures  shows  that 
they  constitute  a  by  no  means  unimportant  part  of  the 
diet,  since  they  supply,  on  the  basis  of  recent  statistics, 
4,4  per  cent  of  the  total  food  and  3.7  per  cent  of  the  total 
carbohydrates  of  the  average  American  diet.  With  a  view 
to  learning  something  more  definite  regarding  the  pos- 
sibilities of  fruits  as  sources  of  nutrients,  the  relative  cost 
of  nutrients  supplied  by  fruits  and  other  foods,  the  di- 
gestibility of  a  fruit  diet  as  compared  with  an  ordinary 
mixed  diet,  and  related  questions,  extended  investiga- 
tions were  undertaken  at  the  California  Agricultural  Ex- 
periment Station  by  Professor  M.  E.  Jaffa,  the  work  as  a 
whole  being  carried  on  in  co-operation  with  the  nutrition 
investigations  of  the  Office  of  Experiment  Sta- 
tions. In  the  first  series  reported  six  dietary 
studies  were  made  with  fruitarians — two  women 
and  four  children  who  had  lived  on  a  fruit  and 
nut  diet  for  several  years.  The  dietary  studies  covered 
from  twenty  to  twenty-eight  days,  and  the  daily  food  con- 
sisted of  different  combinations  of  fruits  and  nuts,  of 
which  the  following  day's  ration  may  serve  as  a  sample: 
475  grams  apples,  110  grams  bananas,  850  grams  oranges, 
5  grams  dates,  2  grams  honey,  10  grams  olive  oil,  55 
grams  almonds,  70  grams  pine  nuts,  and  50  grams  wal- 
nuts. 

The  later  studies  were  made  with  one  of  the  women  and 
two  of  the  children  included  in  the  first  group,  and  in 
addition  with  two  elderly  men  who  had  been  vegetarians 
for  years  and  had  limited  their  diet  almost  exclusively  to 
fruits  and  nuts,  and  with  two  young  men,  university 
students,  who  were  accustomed  to  the  ordinary  diet, 
though  one  of  them  had  experimented  with  a  vegetarian 
and  fruitarian  diet  for  some  time.  The  students  and  one 
of  the  elder  men  ate  three  meals  a  day  at  the 
usual  hours.  The  others  ate  but  twice,  the  first  meals  be- 
ing taken  between  10  and  11  o'clock  in  the  morning  and 
the  second  between  5  and  6  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.  As 
before,  the  diet  included  a  large  assortment  of  fresh 
fruits,  with  considerable  quantities  of  dried  fruits  and 
nuts,  and  some  honey  and  olive  oil.  In  a  few  cases  small 
quantities  of  other  foods  were  also  eaten. 

Considering  these  studies  as  a  whole,  the  diet  of  the 
women  and  children  furnished  from  32  to  43  grams  of 
protein  and  1,190  to  1,430  calories  of  energy  per  day,  the 
cpst  ranging  from  15.7  to  27.5  cents.  It  is  the  usual  cus- 
tom to  discuss  dietary  studies  on  the  basis  of  the  amounts 
eaten  per  man  per  day,  and  the  results  obtained  with 
these  women  and  children,  when  recalculated  to  this 
bfisis,  showed  a  range  of  47  to  80  grams  of  protein  and 
1,850  to  2,805  calories  of  energy,  the  cost  of  the  daily  food 
ranging  from  21  to  55  cents  per  man  per  day.  In  the 
studies  with  the  young  and  the  old  men  the  protein  sup- 
plied by  the  daily  diet  ranged  from  40  to  85  grams  and 
the  energy  from  1,712  to  3,305  calories,  the  average  being 
62  grams  protein  and  2,493  calories,  the  cost  ranging  from 
18.1  to  47  cents  per  person  per  day.  These  amounts  are 
considerably  smaller  than  have  been  found  on  an  average 
with  families  living  in  many  different  regions  of  the 
United  States  and  under  a  variety  of  conditions,  as  is 
:  shown  by  the  fact  that  with  52  families  in  comfortable 
I  circumstances  the  average  protein  in  th  daily  diet  was  103 
grams  and  the  average  energy  3,500  calories.  On  the 
other  hand,  in  many  of  the  dietary  studies  made  under 
the  auspices  of  the  Office  of  Experiment  Stations  it  has 
been  found  that  persons  living  on  a  mixed  diet  have  ob- 
■  tained  amounts  directly  comparable  with  these  supplied 


by  the  fruitarian  diet.  Thus,  at  the  North  Dakota  Agri- 
cultural College  several  years  ago  a  dietary  study  showed 
that  the  food  consumed  per  man  per  day  by  a  group  of  stu- 
dents furnished  64  grams  protein  and  2,579  calories  and 
at  Lake  Erie  College  68  grams  protein  and  2,610  calories, 
calculated  on  a  uniform  basis  per  man  per  day. 

In  an  investigation  carried  on  at  Harvard  it  was  found 
that  the  diet  of  nine  students  who  lived  at  the  college  com- 
mons and,  from  necessity  or  choice,  endeavored  to  liva 
cheaply  supplied,  on  an  average,  89  grams  protein  and 
3,068  calories.  In  this  case  the  average  cost  was  39.9 
cents  per  day  and  at  the  North  Dakota  and  the  Lake  Erie 
col'eges  13  and  18  cents,  respectively.  It  will  thus  be 
seen  that  in  the  California  investigations  the  fruit  and 
nut  diet  supplied  the  subjects  with  amounts  of  protein 
and  energy  which  are  directly  comparable  with  those  ob- 
tained  by  many  other  persons  from  a  mixed  diet,  though 
in  general  the  quantities  were  smaller  than  are  supplied 
by  the  diet  of  the  average  family.  It  should  be  said  that 
the  persos  living  on  a  fruit  and  nut  diet  apparently  main- 
tained their  normal  health  and  strength,  and  it  is  only 
fair  to  conclude  that  if,  for  any  reason,  such  a  course 
seems  desirable  it  is  perfectly  possible  to  select  a  diet 
made  up  of  fruits  and  nuts  which,  for  long  periods  at  any 
rate,  will  supply  the  body  with  the  requisite  protein  and 
energy,  as  was  shown  by  a  detailed  study  of  the  results 
of  the  California  experiments.  In  such  a  diet  nuts  were 
the  principal  sources  of  protein  and  nuts,  olives  or  the  ex- 
pressed olive  oil  the  chief  source  of  fat,  while  fruits,  fresh 
and  dried,  supplied  the  bulk  of  the  carbohydrates. 

As  regards  cost,  it  will  be  seen  that  there  was  a  con- 
siderable range  with  the  fruitarian  diet,  the  amount  ex- 
pended per  person  per  day  being  in  some  cases  quite  low 
and  in  others  quite  high.  On  the  whole,  the  range  did  not 
differ  greatly  from  that  observed  in  many  instances  on  an 
ordinary  mixed  diet. 

It  would  seem  from  the  recorded  data  that  it  is  more 
difficult  for  the  subjects  to  obtain  the  requisite  amount 
of  protein  when  on  a  limited  diet  of  one  kind  of  nut  com- 
bined with  fruits  than  it  is  when  they  are  unrestricted 
and  eat  a  variety  of  both  fruits  and  nuts.  In  nearly  all 
cases  where  the  diet  was  limited  to  combinations  of  one 
or  two  fruits  with  one  kind  of  nuts  the  subjects  com- 
plained of  a  constant  craving  for  some  other  food,  such  as 
green  vegetables  or  cereals,  and  in  these  cases  it  was 
found  that  the  coefficients  of  digestibility  were  lower 
than  in  those  tests  in  which  some  vegetable  or  cereal  was 
eaten,  which  made  the  diet  more  appetizing.  The  addition 
of  a  small  amount  of  some  cereal  food  to  the  diet  marked- 
ly increased  its  protein  and  energy  value. 

It  would  be  going  too  far  to  conclude  on  the  basis  of  the 
California  investigations  that  a  fruitarian  diet  in  gen- 
eral is  equal  or  superior  to  the  ordinary  diet,  and  indeed 
the  study  of  this  question  was  not  a  part  of  the  investi- 
gation. Before  such  a  conclusion  could  be  drawn  it  would 
be  necessary  to  make  investigations  extending  over  a  long 
period  of  years  and  with  a  variety  of  subjects,  and  which 
would  take  into  account  resistance  to  disease  and  other 
unfavorable  conditions,  body  development,  the  health  and 
condition  of  the  offspring  of  persons  living  for  years  on 
such  a  diet,  and  other  similar  questions.  It  seems  fair  to 
say,  however,  that  at  the  present  time  the  consensus  of 
opinion  of  well-informed  physiologists  is  that  the  ordinary 
mixed  diet  is  most  convenient  and  satisfactory  for  the 
average  individual.  It  is  equally  clear  from  the  investi- 
gations reported  that  fruits  and  nuts  should  not  be  looked 
upon  simply  as  food  accessories,  but  should  be  considered 
a  fairly  economical  source  of  nutritive  materiai.  It  muak 
be  remembered,  too,  that  the  use  of  fruitg,  fresh  and  pre- 
served, often  makes  palatable  an  oiherwise  rather  taste- 


'  68 


GOVERNiMENT   COOK  BOOK 


less  mean.  Jam  with  our  bread  is  a  reasonable  combina- 
tion, tile  highly  flavored  fruit  product  whetting  the  appe- 
tite for  the  needed  quantity  of  rather  flavorless  bread. 

DIGESTIBILITY    OF  FRUIT. 

In  addition  to  the  dietary  studies,  a  large  number  of 
digestion  experiments  were  made  at  the  California  Ex- 
periment Station  for  the  purpose  of  learning  how  thor- 
oughly a  diet  made  up  of  various  combinations  of  fruits 
and  nuts  was  assimilated.  In  such  an  experiment  cov- 
ering 10  days,  made  with  u  child  7  years  old,  on  an 
average  82  per  cent,  of  the  protein,  87  per  cent,  of 
the  fat,  96  per  cent,  of  the  nitrogen-free  extract  (sugar, 
Btarches,  etc.),  80  per  cent,  of  the  ciTjde  fiber,  and  54 
per  cent,  of  the  ash  of  the  food  eaten  were  digested,  and 
87  per  cent,  of  the  energy  of  the  diet  was  available  to 
the  body.  In  30  experiments  with  men,  75  per  cent,  of 
the  protein,  86  per  cent,  of  the  fat,  95  per  cent,  of  the 
nitrogen-free  extract,  79  per  cent,  of  the  crude  fiber, 
and  55  per  cent,  of  the  ash  of  the  fruit  and  nut  diet 
were  digested,  and  86  per  cent,  of  the  energy  was  avail- 
able. These  values  are  comparable  with  those  obtained 
from  an  ordinary  mixed  diet,  as  is  shown  by  the  fact 
that  in  93  experiments  with  young  men  93  per  cent,  of 
the  protein,  95  per  cent,  of  the  fat,  and  98  per  cent,  of 
the  total  carbohydrates  supplied  were  assimilated.  The 
average  coefficients  of  digestibility  which  have  been 
calculated  for  fruits  in  connection  with  the  nutrition 
investigations  carried  on  under  the  auspices  of  the  Of- 
fice of  Experiment  Stations  are  protein  85  per  cent., 
fat,  90  per  cent.,  and  carbohydrates  90  per  cent.,  and 
those  for  fresh  vegetables,  protein  83  per  cent.,  fat 
90  per  cent.,  and  carbohydrates  95  per  cent. 

The  feces  excreted  per  person  per  day  on  the  fruit 
aiid  nut  diet  in  the  California  experiments  were  less 
in  amount  than  has  been  the  case  in  some  experiments 
with  a  mixed  diet  or  a  ration  of  bread  and  milk.  This 
is  contrary  to  what  has  been  commonly  found  with 
a  vegetarian  diet  made  up  of  bread  and  other  cereal 
foods,  gai'den  vegetables,  etc.,  and  containing  little  if 
any  fruit  or  nuts.  The  percentage  of  so-called  metabolic 
nitrogen  in  the  feces  from  the  fruit  and  nut  diet  did 
not  exceed  that  reported  by  other  investigators  in  tests 
with  a  bread  and  milk  diet.  In  other  words,  if  the 
amount  of  metabolic  pi-oducts  can  be  looked  upon  as 
a  measure  of  the  work  of  digestion,  no  more  effort 
is  retiuired  to  digest  the  fruit  and  nuts  than  is  needed 
for  l)read  and  milk.  Although,  as  Professor  Jaffa 
points  out,  it  is  undoubtedly  advisable  to  wait  until 
more  data  have  been  obtained  before  making  definite 
statements  regarding  the  digestibility  of  fiiiits  and 
nuts,  enough  has  been  done  to  show  that  tliey  are  al- 
n).o.st  completely  digested  and  have  a  higher  nutritive 
value  than  is  popularly  attributed  to  them.  In  view 
of  this  it  is  certainly  an  error  to  regard  fruit  as  some- 
thing of  value  only  for  its  pleasant  flavor  or  for  its 
hygienic  or  medicinal  properties,  or  to  consider  nuts 
simply  as  an  accessory  to  an  already  hearty  meal.  As 
shown  by  the  compo.sition  and  digestibility  of  botli  fruit 
ajid  nuts,  they  can  be  favorably  compared  with  other 
and  more  common  food. 

So  fat  AS  can  be  learned,  comparatively  few  investi- 
srations  have  been  made  to  ascertain  the  digestibility 
of  particular  fruits,  raw  or  cooked.  In  a  series  of  in- 
vestigations by  Bryant  and  Milner  the  digestibility 
of  apple  sauce  was  determined  when  eaten  with  a  siiv.- 
ple  basal  ration.  The  coefficients  of  digestibility  for 
apple  sauce  alone  were  calculated  in  the  usual  way  and 
were,  protein,  28  per  cent.,  nitrogen-free  extra«:t  99.6 
per  cent.,  crude  fiber  96  per  cent.,  and  ash  100  per 
cent.,  while  all  the  energy  supplitw]  by  the  apple  sauce 


was  considered  to  be  available  to  the  body.  The  co- 
efficient of  digestibility  of  protein  is  low,  but,  as  the 
authors  pointed  out,  the  total  amount  of  this  constituent 
present  was  so  small  that  it  may  be  disregarded.  This 
investigation,  like  those  at  the  California  Experiment 
Station,  indicates  that  the  fruit  carbohydrates  (sugar, 
starches,  etc.),  that  is,  the  principal  nutritive  materials 
which  fruits  supply,  are  very  thoroughly  assimilated. 

Few  studies  seem  to  have  been  made  to  determine  the 
ease  or  rapidity  of  digestion  of  dicerent  fruits  in  the 
stomach,  but  a  comparison  of  available  data  indicates 
that  fruits  compai'e  favorably  with  other  common  foods 
as  regards  stomach  digestion.  Apparently,  it  is  fair 
to  say  that  stomach  digestion  is  Influenced  by  the  nature 
of  the  fruit  and  its  stage  of  ripeness.  Beaumont  states 
that  mellow  sour  apples  eaten  uncooked  require  2  hours 
for  digestion  in  the  stomach  and  mellow  sweet  apples 
1.5  hours.  Another  observer  notes  that  about  5  ounces 
of  raw  ripe  apple  requires  3  hours  and  10  minutes  for 
digestion  in  the  stomach,  but  states  that  if  the  fruit 
is  unripe,  and  consequently  contains  a  high  proportion 
of  cellulose,  a  much  longer  time  may  be  required. 

Little  is  definitely  known  regai'ding  the  relative  di- 
gestion and  absorption  of  fruits  in  the  intestine,  but 
experiments  indicate  that,  as  a  class,  ripe  fruits  are 
quite  thoroughly  digested,  and  it  is  evident  that,  gen- 
erally speaking,  fruits,  like  other  foods,  usually  remain 
in  the  intestinal  tract  long  enough  for  the  body  to 
absorb  the  nutritive  material  present,  and  that  there- 
fore the  rate  of  intestinal  digestion  would  not.  be  a 
matter  of  special  importance. 

RELATIVE    ECONOMY    OF    FRUIT5    AND  OTHER 
FOODS. 

In  connection  with  his  studies  of  the  compai-ative 
value  of  fruits,  Professor  Jaffa  summarizes  data  re- 
garding the  cost  of  nutrients  and  energy  supplied  by 
fruits  as  compared  with  some  other  foods  at  certain 
values  per  pound.    Some  of  his  data  follow. 

COMPARATIVa     COST    OK    TOTAL,    NUTRIENTS  AND 
ENERGY    [N    FKUITS   .A.NP   OTHER   FOOD  MA- 
TERIALS AT  CERT.A.IN  AVERAGE  PRICES. 


Kind  of 
Food  Material. 


"T'TTzFTPfkuits. 

.<lPP1hs   

Ban anus   

Grapes   

Orang'es   

Peaches   


Plums   

\Vater;'elOTis  

Blackb^TiifS  

Craubcrrios   

Currant.s  

Raspberries  

Strawberries   

DRIED  FRUITS. 

Apples  

Dates   

Figs   

Prunes   

Raisins   


.TA\r£, 

PRESERVES. FTC. 
Apple  preserves  ... 

Apple  butter  

Curr;i:it    :.iul  rasp- 

berr\  Jaiii   

Gi-'^i^f i'Lrr}'  Jam   

Orange  marmalade. 

Prune  sauce   

Strawb'ry  pres'ves. 

.^pple  Jelly   

Currant  jelly   

Guava  jeliy   


1! 

Co.sL  of  1,000 
Calories  Energy- 

Amounts  for 

10  cents. 

rice  per  Pound 

Cost  of 
Poiuid  Protein 

a  ^ 

m'2. 

Protein. 

-Fiat.  ~  r' 

t 
? 

I 

Energy. 

lets. 

D'llrti 

Cts. 

Lbs. 

Lbf. 

Lbs. 

Lbs. 

Cars. 

1.5 

6.00 

7.3 

6.07 

0.02 

0.02 

0.72 

1,467 

7.(1 

S.7o 

23.3 

1.4;; 

.0; 

.21 

429 

4.0 

4.(Xi 

U.? 

2.60 

.  .OS 

'".oi: 

.361 

837 

6  0 

lO.OO 

■  1.67 

.01 

.14 

2S4 

4.0 

S.OO 

25!  1 

2.50 

.01 

.1.1 

398 

3.0 

6.00 

11.5 

S.o3 

.02 

.61 

.42 

SB6 

3.0 

3.33 

8.1 

0.3S 

.OS 

.64 

1.2S3 

1.6 

7.50 

25  0 

6.67 

.0< 

.18 

400 

7.0 

5.3S 

25.0 

1.43 

.02 

■■■.6i 

.16 

386 

5.0 

12.50 

2.^.3 

2.00 

.01 

.01 

.20 

430 

6.1) 

3.;!:j 

IS.f' 

2.00 

.03 

.26 

530 

7.0 

7.011 

27  4 

1.4.3 

.01 

.IS 

365 

7.0 

7.:s 

40.0 

-  1.43 

.01 

.01 

.10 

250 

IS.O 

7.50 

S.9 

.S3 

.01 

.02 

.55 

i.m 

10.0 

5.26 

6..J 

l.Oi) 

.02 

.03 

.71 

1,450 

15.0 

S-.'O 

■r; 

.67 

M 

..... 

.50 

'  98$ 

Ki.O 

6.56 

l.iX) 

■  .02 

.62 

1,190 

10.0 

4.C5 

1.00 

.02 

"".63 

. 

.69 

1.443 

16  0 

9b4:j 

13  8 

.62 





- 

■ 

.39 

727 

u.O 

10.00 

5.0 

.01 



.94 

l,7!:i) 

15-0 

26  66 

V-i 





.42 

7S1 

16.0 





.40 

752 

16.0 

26.66 

in..T 

■  .G; 

.52 

983 

Ifi.O 

32.00 

37.2; 

.62 

.14 

267 

16.0 

2<;.67 

12.01 

.62 

M 

833 

16.0 

53.83 

12.2: 

.62 

.48 

%n 

16.0 

40.0(1 

1S.4i 

.62 

.40 

744 

16.0 

Oo.33j 

10.51 

.62 

-  .51 

952 

GOVERNMENT    COOK    BOOK  - 


69 


COMPARATIVE     COST     OF     TOTAL    NUTRIENTS  AND 
•     _    ENERGY  IN  FRUITS  AND  OTHER  FOOD  MA- 
_         TERIALS  AT  CERTAIN  AVERAGE  PRICES. 

(CONTINUED.) 


Kind  of 
Food  MAtertaL 


s  - 


Amounts  for  10  cents. 


'=1H 
o  2 


Quince  Jelly   

Apricots,  canned 

Pears,  canned   

Peaches,  canned  . 
Grape  Juice   


OTHER  FOODS 
FOR 

COMPARISON. 
Porterhouse  steak  . 
Leg  mutton,  hind... 

U'hole  milk   

6klm  milk  

Wheat  flour,  patent 

roller  process,hlgh| 

grade  &  medium. 

White  bread  

Rye  bread   

Sugar   

Candy   : 

Beans,  dried   

Celery   

Potatoes,  90c.  bush. 


16.0 
16.0 
16.0 
.6.0 
20.0 


2.5.0 
20.0 
3.5 
2.0 


2.0 
5.0 
5.0 
6.0 
20.0 
5.0 
5.0 
1.5| 


80.00 
17.78 
53.33 
20.00 
83.33 


1.31 
1.30 
1.06 
.59 


.221 
.541 
.56 


.221 
5.56| 
.S3 1 


13.3 
47.1 
45.5 
53.2 
128.2 


10.5 
ll.S 


1.5 
4.2 
4.3 
3.2 

11.2 
3.1 

71.4 
4.S 


.621 
.62 
.62 
.62 
.50 


.40 
.50 
2.S6 
5.00 


4.001 
2.001 
2.0OI 
1.671 
.50] 
2.00| 
2.00| 
G,67| 


.01 


.40 
.11 
.11 
.09 
.04 


.03 


3.00 

i.osi 

1.06 
1.67 
.48 
1.19 
.05 
.98 


750 
211 
220 
188 


444 
445 
925 
850 


6.600 
2.430 
2,360 
3,106 

892 
3,210 

140 
2,068 


From  the  data  in  the  foregomg  table  it  appears  that 
fruits  are  comparatively  expensive  sources  of  protein  as 
compared  with  flour  or  dried  legumes,  the  fruit  juices 
being  the  most  expensive  and  the  dried  fruits  the  cheap- 
est of  the  fruit  products.  Ten  cents  on  an  average  will 
purchase  fully  as  much  energy  when  spent  for  fresh 
fruits  and  more  when  spent  for  dried  fruits  than  for  lean 
meats,  but  much  less  than  when  expended  for  wheat  flour. 
From  the  data  as  a  whole,  it  is  apparent  that  fruits  are 
reasonably  cheap  sources  of  energy  in  the  diet  and  are 
v/ell  suited  on  grounds  of  economy  for  combination  in 
reasonable  quantity  with  cheap  proteid  foods  to  furnish  a 
well-balanced  ration. 

COOKING   AND   ITS   EFFECTS   ON   FRUIT:  JELLY 
MAKING. 

As  is  the  case  with  all  vegetable  foods,  the  heat  of  cook- 
ing breaks  down  the  carbohydrate  walls  of  the  cells  which 
make  up  the  fruit  flesh,  cither  because  the  moisture  or 
other  cell  contents  expands  and  ruptures  the  v/alls  or  be- 
cause the  cell  walls  itself  softened  or  dissolved.  Texture, 
appearance  and  flavor  of  fruit  arc  materially  modified 
by  cooking;  and  if  thorough  it  insures  sterilization,  as  in 
the  case  of  all  other  foods.  The  change  in  texture  often 
has  a  practical  advantage,  since  it  implies  the  softening 
of  the  fruit  flesh  so  tliat  it  is  more  palatable  and  may  be 
more  readily  acted  upon  by  the  digestive  juices.  This  is 
obviously  of  more  importance  with  the  fruits  like  the 
quince,  which  is  so  hard  that  it  is  unpalatable  raw,  than 
it  is  with  soft  fruits  like  strawberries.  When  fruits  are 
cooked  without  the  addition  of  water  or  other  material,  as 
is  often  the  case  in  baking  apples,  there  is  a  loss  of 
weight,  owing  to  the  evaporation  of  water,  and  the  juice 
as  it  runs  out  carries  some  carbohydrates  and  other  sol- 
uble constituents  with  it,  but  under  ordinary  household 
conditions  this  does  not  imply  waste,  as  the  juice  which 
cooks  out  from  fruit  is  usually  eaten  as  well  as  the  pulp. 
Cooking  in  water  extracts  some  of  the  nutritive  material 
present.  Thus,  a  German  investigator  found  that  after 
boiling,  apples  and  pears  contained  4  or  5  per  cent  and 
peaches  about  7  per  cent  less  carbohydrates  than  the  un- 
cooked fruit.  In  this  case  also  such  removal  of  nutritive 
material  is  of  no  practical  importance. 

The  idea  is  quite  generally  held  that  cooking  fruit 
changes  its  acid  content,  acid  being  sometimes  increased 


and  sometimes  decreased  by  the  cooking  process.  Kelhof  ar 
showed  that  when  gooseberries  were  cooked  with  sugar, 
the  acid  content  was  not  materially  changed,  these  results 
being  in  accord  with  his  conclusions  reached  in  earlier 
studies  with  other  fruits.  The  sweeter  ta.'^te  of  the  cooked 
product  he  believed  to  be  simply  due  to  the  fact  that  sugir 
masks  the  flavor  of  the  acid. 

It  is  often  noted  that  cooked  fruits,  such  as  plums,  seem 
much  sourer  than  the  raw  fruit,  and  it  has  been  suggested 
that  either  the  acid  was  increased  or  the  sugar  was  de- 
creased by  the  cooking  process.  This  problem  was  studied 
by  Sutherst,  and  in  his  opinion  the  increased  acid  flavor 
is  due  to  the  fact  that  cooked  fruit  (gooseberries,  currants, 
plums,  etc.)  usually  contains  the  skin,  which  is  commonly 
rejected  if  the  fruit  is  eaten  raw.  The  skin  is  more  acid 
than  the  pulp,  as  was  shown  by  analyses  of  gooseberries, 
in  which  the  skin  was  found  to  contain  2.7  per  cent  acid 
and  the  pulp  1.8  per  cent.  To  determine  whether  aeid 
is  formed  when  fruit  is  cooked,  Sutherst  boiled  a  mixture 
of  nearly  ripe  gooseberries  in  water  for  about  30  minutes 
and  then  measured  the  amount  of  acid  by  trituration  with 
sodium  hj'droxid  solution.  The  boiled  portion  was  found 
to  contain  loss  acid  than  the  raw,  probably  because  some 
of  the  acid  was  volatile  and  passed  off  with  the  .steam. 

As  regards  the  effect  of  cooking  on  the  kind  and 
amount  of  sugar  present,  uncooked  gooseberries  v/ere 
found  to  contain  1.2  per  cent  cane  sugar  and  5.8  per  cer.t 
invert  sugar.  After  boiling,  no  cane  sugar  was  fouad 
while  the  invert  sugar  amounted  to  6.9  per  cent.  This  in- 
dicates that  all  the  sugar  imdergoes  inversion  during 
cooking,  the  acid  present  bringing  about  the  inversion  in 
the  usual  way. 

When  fruits  or  fruit  juices  are  cooked  with  sugar,  the 
material  very  commonly  solidifies  or  jellies  on  cooling,  and 
this  well-known  property  is  taken  advantage  of  in  jelly 
making.  In  the  case  of  some  fruits,  like  the  apple,  the 
jelly-yielding  material  must  be  extracted  from  the  fruit 
by  cooking  with  hot  water,  while  in  the  case  of  other 
fruits — the  currant,  for  instancy — this  extraction  with  hot 
water  is  not  necessary,  as  the  expressed  juice  will  produce 
a  jelly.  Heating  the  extracted  or  expressed  juice  is  com- 
monly considered  a  necessary  step  in  jelly  making,  but 
some  fruit  juices  will,  on  standing,  jelly  without  heat,  and 
laboratory  tests  have  shown  that  jelly  may  also  be  ob- 
tained without  the  addition  of  sugar.  Cooking  and  the  ad- 
dition of  sugar  are,  however,  important  features  in  the 
practical  consideration  of  jelly  making,  as  they  have  a 
decided  effect  upon  the  yield,  flavor,  and  keeping  qualities 
of  the  resulting  product. 

Some  fruits,  like  the  ordinary  varieties  of  pear,  possess 
so  little  of  the  jelly-yielding  material  or  possess  it  in  such 
an  unusual  form  that  they  do  not  yield  a  go^^d  jelly  undsr 
ordinary  household  methods  of  treatment.  The  proportion 
of  jelly-yielding  material,  like  other  constituents,  varies 
with  the  stage  of  maturity,  underripe  rather  than  over- 
ripe fruit  being  best  for  the  purpose. 

The  jelly-yielding  bodies  are  known  to  be  carbohy- 
drates and  have  been  called  pectin,  pectoso,  pectin  bodies 
or  some  similar  name.  They  have  been  commonly  grouped 
with  the  plant  gums  and  similar  carbohydrates,  and  the 
true  nature  of  these  materials  has  been  the  subject  of  a 
great  deal  of  study.  At  the  present  time  the  consensus  of 
opinion  seems  to  be  that  the  pectins  are  composed  of  sev- 
2ral  of  the  simpler  carbohydrates  united  to  form  a  complex 
carbohydrate.  In  some  fruits,  like  the  apple,  where  th6 
jelly-yielding  material  must  be  extracted  v/ith  hot  v.-ater, 
the  pectin  is  apparently  united  v.ith  cellulose  as  a  part  of 
the  solid  pulp.  As  shown  by  the  investigations  of  Bigelow 
and  Gore  at  the  Bureau  of  Chemistry,  40  per  cent  of  the 
solid  material  of  apple  pulp  may  be  thus  extracted  with 


70 


GOVERNMENT  COOK  BOOK 


hot  water,  and  consists  of  two  carbohydrates,  one  of 
which  is  closely  related  to  gum  arabic.  That  such  car- 
bohydrates as  these  should  yield  a  jelly  is  not  surprising 
when  we  remember  that  they  are  similar  to  starch  in  their 
chemical  nature,  and,  as  everyone  knows,  starch,  though 
insoluble  in  cold  water,  yields  when  cooked  with  hot  water 
a  large  proportion  of  paste  which  jellies  on  cooling. 

When  fruits  are  used  for  making  pies,  puddings,  etc., 
the  nutritive  value  of  the  dish  is,  of  course,  increased  by 
the  addition  of  flour,  sugar,  etc.,  and  the  dish  as  a  whole 
may  constitute  a  better  balanced  food  than  the  fruit  alone. 
It  is  commonly  believed  that  dishes  in  which  fruits  are 
cooked  with  the  addition  of  sugar,  butter,  and  a  flour 
crust  of  some  sort  are  less  easily  digested  than  simple 
rations  of  bread,  butter,  and  fruit  having  an  equivalent 
nutritive  value.  The  large  number  of  digestion  experi- 
ments which  have  been  made  with  various  mixed  diets  do 
not  indicate  that  there  is  any  special  difference  between 
the  two  rations  as  regards  thoroughness  of  digestion,  but 
additional  experiments  must  be  undertaken  before  it  can 
be  said  with  certainty  whether  or  not  there  are  actual  dif- 
ferences in  the  ease  and  rapidity  of  digestion. 

In  different  countries  opinions  vary  markedly  regard- 
ing the  relative  wholesomeness  of  raw  and  cooked  fruit. 
Thus,  as  has  often  been  pointed  out,  the  Germans  use  com- 
paratively little  raw  fruit  and  consider  it  far  less  whole- 
some than  cooked  fruit.  On  the  other  hand,  in  the  United 
States  raw  fruit  of  good  quality  is  considered  extremely 
wholesome,  and  is  used  in  very  large  quantities,  being  ;;s 
much  relished  as  cooked  fruit,  if  indeed  it  is  not  pre- 
ferred to  it.  It  has  been  suggested  that  the  European  prej- 
udice against  raw  fruit  may  be  an  unconscious  protest 
against  insanitary  methods  of  marketing  or  handling  and 
the  recognition  of  cooking  as  a  practical  method  of  pre- 
venting the  spread  of  disease  by  fruit  accidently  soiled 
:with  fertilizers  in  the  fields  or  with  street  dust. 

OVERRIPE,  DECAYED,  AND  UNRIPE  FRUIT. 

Overripe  fruit  is  often  injurious,  very  probably  be- 
cause it  has  begun  to  ferment,  and  stale  or  partially 
decayed  fruit  is  obviously  undesirable  for  food  pur- 
poses. In  addition  to  a  deterioration  in  flavor  there 
is  always  the  possibility  of  digestive  disturbance  if 
Buch  fruit  is  eaten  raw.  Of  course,  where  apples  are 
raised  or  where  they  are  bought  in  large  quantities 
for  family  use  the  thrifty  housewife  will  sort  them 
over  and  use  for  cooking  the  sound  portions  of  those 
which  have  begun  to  decay.  In  such  cases,  however, 
the  best  available  methods  of  storing  should  be  fol- 
lowed and  sorting  should  be  done  at  frequent  inter- 
vals, for  if  decay  has  proceeded  very  far  the  flavor 
is  without  doubt  injured. 

If  fruits  could  be  kept  unbruised  and  with  the  skin 
unbroken,  decay  would  be  much  delayed,  as  the  mold 
spores,  rots,  etc.,  which  cause  decay,  find  their  readiest 
entrance  through  broken  skins.  That  mechanical  in- 
juries are  the  principal  causes  of  decay  was  shown  in  a 
study  of  citrus  fraits.  When  the  skin  of  an  orange  or 
lemon  is  broken  the  blue  mold  finds  access  to  the  wound, 
and  under  favorable  conditions  of  moisture  and  tem- 
perature develops  readily  and  causes  decay.  An  exam 
ination  of  hundreds  of  boxes  of  California  oranges 
showed  that  a  large  percentage  of  all  the  fruit  was  made 
susceptible  to  such  decay  by  accidental  injuries  to  the 
skin  in  packing. 

It  is  not  at  all  strange  that  decayed  fruit  should  have 
a  decided  characteristic  odor  and  flavor  when  we  re- 
member that  the  decay  is  very  commonly  caused  by 
fungi,  especially  molds  and  rots,  which  penetrate  the 
pulp  and  grow  and  develop  rapidly.  The  fungi  live  upon 


the  cell  contents,  particularly  sugars  and  proteids,  and 

produce  bodies  of  marked  chemical  characteristics,  in- 
cluding odor  and  flavor.  It  is  said  that  the  most  un- 
pleasant effects  are  due  to  one  of  the  common  molds. 

It  is  almost  universally  believed  that  green  fruit  is  un- 
wholesome and  causes  serious  digestive  disturbances,  yet 
those  who  have  been  brought  up  in  the  country  know 
that  if  illness  had  always  followed  eating  it  there  would 
have  been  few  well  children  in  the  community  in  the 
summer.  Recognizing  that  green  fruit  may  be  a  cause 
of  illness  at  times  and  at  other  times  apparently  harm- 
less, two  German  scientists  have  recently  carried  on 
extensive  studies  to  ascertain  the  truth  of  the  matter. 
Chemical  analyses  were  made  of  fruits  of  varying  de- 
gress of  ripeness,  and  studies  in  which  green  fruit  was 
eaten  in  considerable  quantities  and  under  varying  con- 
ditions were  carried  on  with  both  animals  and  men.  It 
appears  from  the  results  of  the  experiments  that  al- 
though unripe  fruit  is  undoubtedly  often  harmful,  par- 
ticularly for  children,  the  danger  from  such  foods,  espe- 
cially green  gooseberries,  plums,  pears  and  apples,  when 
eaten  raw,  is  less  than  is  commonly  thought,  and  the 
effects  depend  in  marked  degree  upon  individual  pecu- 
liarities. 

The  green  fruit  was  found  to  contain  the  same  chemi- 
cal compounds  as  the  ripe  fruit,  though  in  different 
proportions — that  is,  no  chemical  element  was  found  in 
the  green  fruit  which  was  foreign  to  the  ripe  fruit,  and 
which  could  be  considered  in  itself  a  cause  of  illness. 
The  injurious  effects  of  raw  unripe  fruit,  therefore,  it 
appears,  do  not  depend  upon  chemical  constituents,  but 
rather  on  the  unusual  propoi-tions  in  which  the  con- 
stituents occur,  and  especially  the  large  percentage  of 
hard  cell  tissue,  which,  if  imperfectly  masticated,  it  will 
readily  be  seen,  might  be  a  source  of  digestive  derange- 
ment. Possibly  the  excess  of  acid  in  the  green  fruit  is 
also  a  cause  of  digestive  disturbance.  Cooked  green 
fruit  was  found  to  be  practically  harmless,  being  espe- 
cially palatable  and  wholesome  when  cooked  with  sugar. 

The  possibility  of  injury  by  bacterial  contamination 
was  considered,  though  the  data  available  were  not  suffi- 
cient for  final  deductions.  It  is  now  well  known  that 
such  diseases  ai'e  usually  caused  by  micro-organisms;  so 
possibly  the  green  fruit,  very  frequently  picked  up  be- 
neath the  tree,  is  only  an  accidental  carrier  of  the  real 
cause  of  the  digestive  disturbances  which  may  follow 
eating  it. 

HANDLING  AND  MARKETING  FRUIT. 

It  is  very  important  that  fruits  should  be  handled, 
stored  and  marketed  under  sanitary  conditions,  as  they 
are  very  commonly  eaten  raw,  and  not  all  persons  are 
careful  to  wash  them  before  serving.  Fruit  which  has 
fallen  to  the  ground  may  be  readily  soiled  with  earth, 
water,  or  other  material  which  may  contain  typhoid  or 
other  bacteria.  Indeed,  cases  of  infection  have  been 
traced  to  fruits  contaminated  in  this  or  some  similar 
way  and  which  were  eaten  raw  without  being  washed. 
Investigations  have  also  shown  that  fruits  exposed  to 
street  dust  and  to  other  unfavorable  conditions  become 
covered  with  bacteria,  which  are  always  present  in  such 
dust-laden  air,  and  may  be  possible  sources  of  contagion. 
Flies  and  other  insects  are  also  known  to  be  a  source  of 
dirt  and  contamination.  Samples  of  fruit  purchased  in 
the  street  and  examined  by  a  Gennan  investigator  (Ehr- 
lich)  showed  tuberculosis  bacteria  and  many  other  forms 
of  micro-organisms,  the  number  present  varying  con- 
siderbly  with  different  sorts  of  fruit. 

Realizing  that  fruit  exposed  to  street  dust  and  insects 
may  be  a  means  of  spreading  disease,  measures  have 


* 


GOVERNMENT   COOK   BOOK  ^      ^  71 


been  taken  in  Vienna  to  prevent  such  conditions,  and 
fruit  offered  for  sale  must  be  covered  with  gauze  or 
otherwise  protected.  In  connection  with  the  Vienna  in- 
vestigations microscopic  examinations  were  made  of  the 
skins  of  plums  and  pears  purchased  at  a  much-patron- 
ized fruit  shop.  It  was  found  that  the  main  source  of 
contamination  was  dust  containing  fragments  of  stone 
from  the  street  pavement  and  bits  of  horse  manure. 

As  might  be  expected,  Ehrlich  found  that  those  fruits 
with  a  firm  dry  skin,  such  as  apples,  did  not  furnish 
as  good  a  lodging  place  for  bacteria  and  dust  as  fruits 
with  a  sticky  surface,  such  as  berries.  Sticky  dried  fruits, 
such  as  dates,  raisins,  and  figs,  are  also,  as  will  be  i-eadily 
seen,  favorable  resting  places  for  dirt  and  dust,  as  almost 
anything  which  the  moving  air  currents  lodge  on  the 
sticky  surface  will  remain  there.  Fortunately,  it  is  be- 
coming a  common  practice  to  market  such  fruits  in  closed 
packages,  usually  of  cardboard,  which  protect  them  to  a 
great  extent  from  dust  and  insects,  so  that  the  dried  fruit, 
if  clean  in  the  first  place,  will  remain  clean. 

It  is  often  urged  that  washing  fruit  destroys  flavor.  On 
the  other  hand,  skillful  housewives  maintain  that  if  prop- 
erly done  the  loss  of  flavor  is  inappreciable,  and  on  the 
grounds  of  common  cleanliness  it  would  seem  best  to  sac- 
rifice a  little  flavoi-,  if  necessary,  for  the  sake  of  remov- 
ing filth  and  possibly  dangerous  bodies,  even  if  the 
amount  of  dirt  present  is  too  small  to  be  offensive  to  sight 
or  taste. 

Ehrlich,  whose  work  has  been  cited,  found  that  wash- 
ing fresh  fruit  once  thoroughly  in  running  water  was 
sufficient  to  remove  the  micro-organisms  present.  If  the 
fruit  had  been  kept  until  the  sticky  surface  was  more  or 
less  dry,  washing  two  or  three  times  was  found  desir- 
able. With  apples  and  pears  he  recommends  wiping  with 
a  clean  dry  cloth,  followed  by  rinsing  under  the  water 
tap.  As  is  well  known,  berries,  and  other  soft  fruits 
sour  and  mold  very  readily  if  damp;  they  should  there- 
fore be  washed  just  before  they  are  served. 

When  fruit  is  washed  the  amount  of  material  removed 
is  small.  In  the  case  of  soft  fi-uits,  like  berries,  with  a 
surface  skin  which  is  very  thin  and  easily  broken,  it  is 
almost  certain  that  larger  quantities  will  be  removed 
than  with  firm  fruit. 

An  idea  of  the  amount  of  material  removed  by  wash- 
ing fresh  fruits,  such  as  the  apple,  which  is  protected  by 
a  firm  skin,  may  be  gathered  from  some  French  experi- 
ments made  to  study  the  effects  of  washing  apples  used 
in  cider  making.  Each  apple  in  a  45-pound  lot  was 
washed  separately  in  distilled  water.  The  wash  water 
took  on  a  dirty  black  color  and  also  had  a  disagreeable 
odor,  and  analyses  showed  that  per  1,000  pounds  of 
apples  it  contained  about  0.3  pound  total  dry  matter,  the 
greater  part  of  the  di-y  matter  being  made  up  of  sugar, 
with  smaller  amounts  of  pectin  bodies,  malic  acid,  and 
ash.  The  juice  of  washed  and  unwashed  fruit  was  prac- 
tically identical  in  composition  It  is  evident  that  the 
loss  represented  is  too  small  to  be  of  any  practical  ac- 
count from  the  standpoint  of  economy,  but  even  less  than 
0.3  pound  of  dirt  per  1,000  pounds  of  fruit  is  something 
which  all  would  wish  to  avoid  when  attention  has  once 
been  directed  to  it. 

On  the  whole,  it  seems  fair  to  conclude  that,  notwith- 
standmg  the  prejudice  which  many  housewives  have 
against  the  practice  of  washing  fruit,  it  is  unquestion- 
ably safest  never  to  omit  the  precaution  of  washing  fruit 
which  is  to  be  eaten  raw,  unless  one  can  be  quite  cer- 
tain that  it  has  not  been  exposed  to  possible  contamina- 
tion. 

Metchhikoff  insists  that  there  is  danger  of  acquiring 
harmful  intestinal  yarasites  or  their  eggs  from  raw 


fruits  and  vegetables,  particularly  those  liable  to  come  in 
contact  with  the  soil,  and  he  believes  that  in  all  such 
doubtful  cases  these  foods  should  be  cooked,  or  at  least 
scalded  in  hot  water,  before  they  are  eaten. 

Much  of  the  dust  and  dirt  and  other  unpleasant  fea- 
tures might  be  avoided  if  our  methods  of  handling  and 
marketing  fruit  and  other  food  products  were  at  all  com- 
parable with  our  standards  of  sanitation  in  other  lines 
and  with  what  is  easily  possible.  Improvements  in  pres- 
ent market  conditions,  however,  can  hardly  be  expected 
until  the  public  demands  them. 

STORING  FRUIT. 

The  manner  in  which  fruits  are  transported  and 
stored  has  a  market  effect  on  quality.  Low  tempera- 
ture retards  after-ripening  and  decay  and  is  the  agent 
most  depended  upon  at  the  present  time,  and  refriger'i- 
tor  cars  and  cold-storage  warehouses  are  now  very  com- 
mon adjuncts  of  the  fruit  industry.  It  is  said  that  a 
temperature  of  31  to  32°  F.  is  best  for  storing  apples, 
pears,  peaches  and  oranges.  Another  authority  gives 
32°  F.  for  cantaloupes  and  watermelons,  33  to  34°  F. 
for  cranberries,  34  to  36°  F.  for  berries  and  bananas, 
36°  F.  for  lemons,  and  35  to  40°  F.  for  dried  fruits. 
Tender  fruits,  it  is  said,  will  keep  best  if  they  are  stored 
just  when  they  are  fully  ripe,  and  sweet  fruits  will  stand 
a  lower  temperature  than  sour  fruits.  The  length  of 
time  fruits  may  be  kept  in  cold  storage  varies  with  the 
kind,  the  degree  of  ripeness,  the  method  of  handling,  and 
other  conditions.  With  berries,  it  is  a  question  of  dayii; 
with  peaches,  melons  and  other  soft  fruits,  of  weeks;  and 
with  apples  and  pears,  of  months. 

Though  pears  of  suitable  varieties  are  frequently  kept 
for  winter  use,  apples  are  the  fruit  most  commonly  stored 
in  the  household,  at  least  in  the  central  and  northern 
regions  of  the  United  States.  For  success  a  uniform 
temperature  is  essential,  the  nearer  32°  F.  the  better. 
The  air  of  the  cellar  or  the  storeroom  must  be  moderately 
dry;  that  is,  it  must  be  moist  enough  to  prevent  fruit 
from  shriveling  and  dry  enough  to  be  unfavorable  to 
mold  growth.  The  room  must  also  be  sweet  and  clean, 
as  fruits  will  readily  absorb  unpleasant  odors.  Applea 
kept  too  near  the  turnip  bin  are  very  apt  to  hav  an  un- 
pleasant taste.  It  is  also  best  to  avoid  drafts,  especially 
when  storing  pears.  Barrels  and  bins  each  have  their 
advocates,  but  the  consensus  of  opinion  seems  to  be  that 
both  are  satisfactory  and  the  choice  of  one  or  the  other 
simply  a  matter  of  convenience.  If  it  is  desired  to  keep 
apples  or  pears  an  unusually  long  time,  the  individual 
fruits  should  be  wrapped  in  clean  unprinted  paper  which 
is  not  too  thick. 

THE    HYGIENE    OF  FRUIT. 

Generally  speaking,  fruits  are  wholesome  and  palatable 
foods,  yet  it  is  not  at  all  uncommon  to  find  that  one  or 
more  sorts  cannot  be  eaten  by  an  individual.  Thus  many 
persons  find  that  strawberries  cause  distress  and  many 
others  that  any  acid  fruit  is  a  cause  of  digestive  dis- 
turbance. Such  cases  are  explained  on  the  ground  of 
some  personal  idiosyncrasy. 

The  extended  use  of  fruit  in  the  diet  is  certainly  jus- 
tified on  the  ground  of  palatibility,  food  value  and 
esthetic  considei-ations.  but  there  are  those  who  seek  a 
further  justification  on  the  score  of  hygiene.  It  is 
commonly  conceded  that  most  fruits  are  laxative,  and 
it  seems  probable  that  they  owe  this  property  to  the 
considerable  amount  of  water  which  they  contain,  to 
the  salts  in  solution,  or  to  the  irritating  crude  fiber, 
small  seeds,  or  other  indigestible  materials  present,  or  to 
all  these  together,    Man  se-eras  to  crave  and  requir* 


72  GOVERNMENT 


Bome  acid  in  his  diet,  and  the  citric,  malic  and  other 
fruit  acids  are  undoubtedly  wholesome. 

The  importance  of  fresh  fruits  and  green  vegetables  in 
supplying  the  body  with  iron  and  other  mineral  matters 
is  often  spoken  of,  and  it  is  true  that  the  amount  of  iron, 
for  instance,  which  many  such  foods  contain  is  large  in 
proportion  to  their  protein  content  or  their  energy  value. 
This  means  that  if  the  ordinary  diet  does  not  supply 
enough  of  some  mineral  constituent  it  may  be  obtained 
by  adding  the  fruit  or  green  vegetable,  which  will  give  it 
without  materially  adding  to  the  nutrients  and  energy 
of  a  diet  already  abundant  in  these  respects. 

Considerable  bulk  is  an  essential  factor  in  the  diet. 
If  the  foods  eaten  were  of  such  a  nature  as  to  be  almost 
completely  absorbed,  the  large  intestine  would  not  readily 
empty  itself  and  serious  complications  would  follow.  For 
this  reason,  bulky  foods,  like  fresh,  succulent  vegetables 
and  fruit,  are  of  importance,  as  they  usually  contain  a 
considerable  proportion  of  indigestible  matter. 

In  earlier  times  remarkable  virtues  or  the  opposite 
were  commonly  attributed  to  fruits,  plants,  precious 
stones,  and  other  animate  and  inanimate  objects,  and  it 
seems  not  improbable  that  the  medicinal  virtues  which 
are  often  ascribed  to  various  fruits  in  popular  writings 
are  survivals  of  this  custom.  No  well-infonned  person 
would  today  share  the  belief,  once  so  widespread,  that 
tomatoes  are  the  cause  of  cancer,  yet  many  apparently 
gfive  credence  to  statements  that  certain  fruits  are  a 
satisfactory  food  for  brain  workers,  while  others  must 
pe  avoided.  At  any  rate,  such  statements  are  often 
found  in  print.  In  general,  it  may  be  said  that  very 
few  investigations  have  been  made  which  indicate  that 
the  differisnt  fruits  possess  specific  medicinal  qualities. 
Those  W'lKen  contain  an  abundance  of  sugar  are  naturally 
excluded  Jn  large  measure  from  the  diet  of  diabetics, 
while  there  are  other  conditions  in  which  acid  fruits  are 
conceded  to  be  undesirable. 

To  the  juice  of  acid  fruits  like  the  lime,  lemon,  orange, 
pomelo  or  "grape  fruit,"  and  the  kumquat  (the  small 
orange  which  is  eaten  entire,  both  skin  and  pulp)  hy- 
gienic properties  are  commonly  attributed,  and  there  is 
reason  to  believe  chat  this  reputation  is  deserved.  Such 
fruit  juices  stimulate  the  appetite  and  are  beneficial  in 
other  ways;  The  bitter  principle  in  the  pomelo  is  com- 
monly said  to  be  of  value  medicinally,  perhaps  because 
it  suggests  the  bitter  flavor  of  quinine,  but  so  far  as 
can  be  learned,  the  real  value  of  this  bitter  quality  is 
a  matter  of  opinion  rather  than  of  experimental  study. 

Some  fruits,  notably  the  tropical  papaw  and  the  pine- 
apple, contain  very  active  ferments.  The  ferment  present 
in  the  papaw  is  separated  in  commercial  quantities  and 
used  as  a  digester  of  nitrogenous  materials.  Perhaps 
it  is  quite  natural  that  much  stress  should  liave  been 
laid  on  the  ferment  present  in  the  pineappit  and  that 
^hU  frviii  t^hould  be  xeconunend^d  for  use  at  the  end  of 


COOK  BOOK 


a  meal,  so  that  its  ferment  may  aid  the  body  in  digesting 
food.  It  should  be  remembered,  however,  that  the  body 
in  health  does  not  need  artificial  aid  in  performing  its 
normal  functions,  and  that  for  digestive  disturbances  it 
would  be  wiser  to  seek  competent  medical  advice  than 
to  depend  on  the  casual  use  of  pineapple  or  other  plant 
ferment,  especially  when  it  is  remembered  that  there  is 
great  doubt  as  to  the  efficacy  of  any  ferments  introduced 
artificially  into  the  stomach. 

Fortunately  there  are  so  many  other  good  reasons  for 
using  fruits  that  we  have  little  need  to  base  our  use  of 
them  in  quantity  on  supposed  medicinal  virtues. 

As  shown  by  statistics  based  on  the  results  of  dietary 
studies  of  nearly  400  American  families,  fresh  fruits 
make  up  3.8  per  cent,  of  the  total  food  and  supply  2.6 
per  cent  of  the  total  carbohydrates.  Similarly  dried 
fruits  furnish  0.6  per  cent,  of  the  total  food  and  1.2  per 
cent  of  the  total  carbohydrates.  The  values  for  fruits  aa 
a  whole,  therefore,  are  4.4  per  cent  of  the  total  food 
material  and  3.7  per  cent,  of  the  total  carbohydrates. 
These  figures  are  not  large  in  themselves,  yet  compare 
favorably  with  the  values  for  different  groups  of  vege- 
table foods.  Thus  the  same  compilation  shows  that  vege- 
tables, other  than  legumes,  potatoes  and  sweet  potatoes, 
furnish  6.2  per  cent,  of  the  total  food  and  1.7  per  cent, 
of  the  total  carbohydrates  of  the  average  American  diet. 

Besides  the  fruit  consumed  at  home  a  great  amount 
is  exported,  and  there  is  no  doubt  that  fruit  growing  is 
one  of  the  im.portant  agricultural  industries  of  the 
United  States,  and  one  which  is  rapidly  developing, 

CONCLUSIONS. 

In  general,  it  may  be  said  that  fruits  are  wholesome, 
palatable  and  attractive  additions  to  our  diet,  and  may 
be  readily  made  to  furnish  a  considerable  part  of  the 
nutrients  and  energy  required  in  the  daily  fare.  Fresh 
fruits  are  dilute  foods  and  closely  resemble  green  vege- 
tables in  total  nutritive  value,  but  dried  fruits  and  many 
preserves,  etc.,  are  much  more  cencentrated,  comparing 
favorably  with  some  of  the  cereals  and  other  dry  vege- 
table foods  in  the  amount  of  total  nutrients  and  energy 
which  they  supply  per  pound.  The  characteristic  chemi- 
cal constituents  of  fruits  are  carbohydrates,  and  so  they 
are  naturally  and  properly  used  in  a  well-balanced  diet 
to  supplement  foods  richer  in  protein,  as  cei'eal  grains, 
legumes,  nuts,  eggs,  dairy  products,  meats  and  fish. 
Fi-uits  contain  considerable  mineral  matter,  and  as  they 
are  dilute  foods  they  may  be  added  to  the  diet  to  supply 
iron  and  other  mineral  constituents  without  unduly  in- 
creasing the  supply  of  protein  and  energy.  Since  they 
are  bulky  and  cri'i^r  .  rntaUi  fairly  large  proportion."!  of 
indigestible  matericil,  fi-uits  stimulate  what  might  other- 
wise be  a  sluggish  intestine.  Intelligently  used,  fruits 
are  a  valuable  part  of  a  well-balanced  diet  and  may  well 
be  eaten  in  larger  quantities  tlian  at  presenu 


'  GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


73 


CANNING  AND  PRI 

INTRODUCTION. 

The  common  fruits,  because  of  their  low  nutritive 
value,  are  not,  as  a  rule,  estimated  at  their  real  worth 
as  food.  Fruit  has  great  dietetic  value  and  should  be 
used  generously  and  wisely,  both  fresh  and  cooked. 
Fruits  supply  a  variety  of  flavors,  sugar,  acids  and  a 
necessary  waste  or  bulky  material  for  aiding  in  intes- 
tinal movement.  They  are  generally  rich  in  potash  and 
soda  salts  and  other  minerals.  Most  fresh  fruits  are 
cooling  and  refreshing.  The  vegetable  acids  have  a  sol- 
vent power  on  the  nutrients  and  are  an  aid  to  digestion 
when  not  taken  in  excess. 

Fruit  and  fruit  juices  keep  the  blood  in  a  healthy  con- 
dition when  the  supply  of  fi-esh  meat,  fish  and  vegetables 
is  limited  and  salt  or  smoked  meats  constitute  the  chief 
elements  of  diet.  Fresh  fruit  is  generally  more  appetiz- 
ing and  refreshing  than  cooked.  For  this  reason  it  is 
often  eaten  in  too  large  quantities,  and  frequently  when 
underripe  or  overripe;  but  when  of  good  quality  and  eat- 
en in  moderate  quantities  it  promotes  healthy  intestinal 
action  and  rarely  hurts  anyone. 

If  eaten  immoderately,  uncooked  fruit  is  apt  to  induce 
intestinal  disturbances.  If  eaten  unripe,  it  often  causes 
stomach  and  intestinal  irritation;  overripe,  ir  has  a  ten- 
dency to  ferment  in  the  alimentary  canal.  Cooking 
changes  the  character  and  flavor  of  fruit,  and  while  the 
product  is  not  so  cooling  and  refreshing  as  in  the  law  i 
state,  it  can,  as  a  rule,  be  eaten  with  less  danger  of  caus- 
ing stomach  or  intestinal  trouble.  If  sugar  be  added  to 
the  cooked  fruit,  the  nutritive  value  will  be  increased.  A 
'arge  quantity  of  sugar  spoils  the  flavor  of  the  fruit  and 
is  likely  to  make  it  less  easily  digested. 

Nowhere  is  there  greater  need  of  a  generous  supply 
of  fruit  than  on  the  farm,  where  the  diet  is  apt  to  be  re- 
stricted in  variety  because  of  the  distance  from  mar- 
kets. Every  farmer  should  i-aise  a  generous  supply  of 
the  kinds  of  fruit  that  can  be  grown  in  his  iocality. 
Wives  and  daughters  on  the  farms  .should  find  pleasure 
in  serving  these  fruits  in  the  most  healthful  and  tempt- 
ing form.  There  are  z  large  number  of  simple,  dainty 
desserts  that  can  be  prepared  with  fruit  and  without 
much  labor.  Such  des.serts  should  leave  the  pie  as  an  I 
occasional  luxury  instead  of  allowing  it  to  be  considered  j 
a  daily  necessity.  | 

In  the  season  when  each  kind  of  fruit  is  plentiful  and 
at  its  best  a  generous  supply  should  be  canned  for  the 
season  when  both  fruit  and  fresh  vegetables  are  scarce. 
A  great  deal  of  the  fruit  should  be  canned  v,rith  little  or 
no  sugar,  that  it  may  be  as  nearly  as  possible  in  the  con- 
dition of  fresh  fruit.  This  is  the  best  condition  for  cook- 
ing purposes.  A  supply  of  glass  jars  does  cost  some- 
thing, but  that  item  of  expense  should  be  charged  to  fu- 
ture years,  as  with  proper  care  the  breaking  of  a  jar  need 
be  a  rare  occurrence.  If  there  be  an  abundance  of  grapes 
and  smajl,  juicy  fruits,  plenty  of  juice  should  be  canned 
or  bottled  for  refreshing  drinks  throughout  the  year. 
Remember  that  the  fruit  and  juice  are  not  luxuries,  but 
an  addition  to  the  dietary  that  will  mean  better  health 
for  the  members  of  the  family  and  greater  economy  in 
iihe  cost  of  the  table.  ,  ^  i 


:SERVING  FRUIT 

FRESH  AND  PRESERVED  FRUIT  FOR  THE  MARKET. 

If  the  supply  of  fruit  is  greater  than  the  family  needs, 
it  may  be  made  a  source  of  income  by  sending  the  fresh 
fruit  to  the  market,  if  there  is  one  near  enough,  or  hy 
preserving,  canning  and  making  jelly  for  sale.  To  make 
such  an  enterprise  a  success  the  fruit  and  work  must  be 
first  class.  There  is  magic  in  the  word  "Homemade," 
when  the  product  appeals  to  the  eye  and  the  palate;  but 
many  careless  and  incompetent  people  have  found  to 
their  sorrow  that  this  word  has  not  magic  enough  to 
float  inferior  goods  on  the  market.  As  a  I'ule  large  can- 
ning and  preserving  establishments  are  clean  and  have 
the  best  appliances,  and  they  employ  chemists  and 
skilled  labor.  The  home  product  must  be  very  good  to 
compete  with  the  attractive  goods  that  are  sent  out  from 
such  establishments.  Yet  for  first-class  homemade  pro- 
ducts there  is  a  market  in  all  large  cities.  All  first-class 
grocers  have  customers  who  purchase  such  goods. 

To  secure  a  market  get  the  names  of  several  first- 
class  grocers  in  some  of  the  large  towns.  Write  to  them 
asking  if  they  would  be  willing  to  try  a  sample  of  your 
goods.  If  the  answer  is  favorable,  send  samples  of  the 
articles  you  wish  to  sell.  In  the  box  with  the  fruit  in- 
close a  list  of  the  articles  .sent  and  the  price.  Write 
your  name  and  address  clearly.  Mail  a  note  and  a  dupli- 
cate list  at  the  time  you  send  the  box. 

Fixing  the  price  of  tiie  goods  is  important.  Make  it 
high  enough  to  cover  all  expenses  and  give  you  a  fair 
return  for  your  labor.  The  expenses  will  be  the  fruit, 
sugar,  fuel,  jars,  glasses,  boxes,  packing  material,  wear 
and  tear  of  utensils,  etc.,  transportation  and  commission. 
The  commission  will  probably  be  20  per  cent,  of  the  sell- 
ing price.  It  may  be  that  a  merchant  will  find  that 
your  prices  are  too  high  or  too  low  for  his  trade,  or  he 
may  wish  to  purchase  the  goods  outright.  In  any  case 
it  is  essential  that  you  estimate  the  full  co.st  of  the 
product  and  th(?  value  that  you  place  on  your  labor,  You 
will  then  be  in  a  position  to  decide  if  the  prices  offered 
will  compensate  you  for  the  labor  and  expense.  Do  not 
be  tempted,  for  the  sake  of  a  little  money,  to  deprive 
your  family  of  the  fruit  necessary  to  health  and  pleasure. 

PACKING    AND  SHIPPING. 

Each  jar  or  jelly  glass  must  be  wrapped  in  several 
thicknesses  of  soft  paper  (newspapers  will  answer). 
Make  pads  of  e.xcelsior  or  hay  by  spreading  a  thick  layer 
between  the  folds  of  newspapers.  Line  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  the  box  with  these  pads.  Pack  the  fruit  in  the 
padded  box.  Fill  all  the  .spaces  between  the  jars  vidth 
the  packing  material.  If  the  box  is  deep  and  a  second 
layer  of  fruit  is  to  go  in,  put  thick  pasteboard  on  thin 
boards  over  the  first  layer  and  set  wrapped  jars  on  this. 
Fill  all  the  spaces  and  cover  the  top  with  the  packing 
material.  Nail  on  the  cover  and  mark  clearly:  GLASS. 
THIS  SIDE  UP. 

The  great  secret  in  packing  is  to  fill  evei-y  particle  of 
space  so  that  nothing  can  move. 

PRINCIPLES  OF  CANNING  AND  PRESERVING. 

In  the  preservation  of  foods  by  canniiig,  preserving, 
etc.,  the  most  essential  things  in  the  processe  sare  the 


74 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


sterilization  of  the  food  and  all  the  utensils  and  the 

sealing  of  the  sterilized  food  to  exclude  all  germs. 

BACTERIA,  YEASTS,  AND  FERMENTATION, 

Over  one  hundred  years  ago  Francois  Appert  was  the 
first  to  make  practical  application  of  the  method  of 
preserving  food  by  putting  it  in  cans  or  bottles,  which 
he  hermetically  sealed.  He  then  put  the  full  bottles  or 
cans  in  water  and  boiled  them  for  more  or  less  time, 
depending  upon  the  kinds  of  food. 

In  Appert's  time  and,  indeed,  until  recent  years,  it 
Was  generally  thought  that  the  oxygen  of  the  air  caused 
the  decomposition  of  food.  Appeit's  theory  was  that 
the  things  essential  to  the  preservation  of  food  in  this 
manner  were  the  exclusion  of  air  and  the  application  of 
gentle  heat,  as  in  the  water  bath,  which  caused  a  fusion 
of  the  principal  constituents  and  ferments  in  such  a 
manner  that  the  power  of  the  ferments  was  destroyed. 

The  investigations  of  scientists,  particularly  of  Pas- 
teur, have  shown  that  it  is  not  the  oxygen  of  the  air 
which  causes  fermentation  and  putrefaction,  but  bacteria 
and  other  microscopic  organisms. 

Appert's  theory  as  to  the  cause  of  the  spoiling  of  food 
was  incorrect,  but  his  method  of  preserving  it  by  sealing 
and  cooking  was  correct,  and  the  world  owes  hira  a  debt 
of  gratitude. 

In  their  investigations  scientists  have  found  that  if 
food  is  perfectly  sterilized  and  the  opening  of  the  jar  or 
bottle  plugged  with  sterilized  cotton,  food  will  not  fer- 
ment, for  the  bacteria  and  yeasts  to  which  such  changes 
are  due  cannot  pass  through  the  cotton.  This  method 
cannot  be  conveniently  followed  with  large  jars. 

Bacteria  and  yeasts  exist  in  the  air,  in  the  soil,  and 
on  all  vegetable  and  animal  substances,  and  even  in  the 
living  body,  but  although  of  such  universal  occurrence, 
the  true  knowledge  of  their  nature  and  economic  im- 
portance has  only  been  gained  during  the  last  forty 
years. 

There  are  a  great  many  kinds  of  these  micro-organ- 
Isma.  Some  do  great  harm,  but  it  is  thought  that  the 
greater  part  of  them  are  beneficial  rather  than  injurious. 

Bacteria  are  one-celled  and  so  small  they  can  only  be 
seen  by  aid  of  a  microscope.  The  process  of  repro- 
duction is  simple  and  rapid.  The  bacterium  becomes 
constricted,  divides,  and  finally  there  are  two  cells  in- 
stead of  one.  Under  favorable  conditions  each  cell  di- 
vides, and  so  rapid  Is  the  work  that  it  has  been  estimated 
that  one  bacterium  may  give  rise,  within  twenty-four 
hours,  to  seventeen  millions  of  similar  organisms.  The 
favorable  conditions  for  growth  are  moisture,  warmth 
and  proper  food. 

Yeasts,  which  are  also  one-celled  organisms,  grow  less 
rapidly.  A  bud  develops,  breaks  off,  and  forms  a  new 
yeast  plant.  Some  yeasts  and  some  kinds  of  bacteria 
produce  spores.  Spores,  like  the  dried  seeds  of  plants, 
may  retain  their  vitality  for  a  long  time,  even  when  ex- 
posed to  conditions  which  kill  the  parent  organism. 

Yeasts  and  nearly  all  bacteria  require  oxygen,  but  there 
are  species  of  the  latter  that  seem  to  grow  equally 
well  without  it,  so  that  the  exclusion  of  air,  which,  of 
course,  contains  oxygen,  is  not  always  a  protection,  if 
one  of  the  anaerobic  bactei-ia,  as  the  kinds  are  called 
which  do  not  require  oxygen,  is  sealed  in  the  can. 

Spoiling  of  food  is  caused  by  the  development  of 
bacteria  or  yeasts.  Certain  chemical  changes  are  pro- 
duced as  shown  by  gases,  odors  and  flavors. 

Bacteria  grows  luxuriantly  in  foods  containing  a  good 
deal  of  nitrogenous  material,  if  wannth  and  moisture 
'*re  present.  Among  foods  rich  in  nitrogenous  sub- 
stances are  all  kinds  of  meat,  fisti^  egga,  £eaS|  beans, 


lentils,  milk,  etc.  These  foods  are  difficult  to  preserve 
on  account  of  the  omnipresent  bacteria.  This  is  seen 
in  warm,  muggy  weather,  when  fresh  meat,  fish,  soups, 
milk,  etc,  spoil  quickly.  Bacteria  do  not  develop  in  sub- 
stances containing  a  large  percentage  of  sugar,  but  they 
grow  rapidly  in  a  suitable  wet  substance  which  con- 
tains a  small  percentage  of  sugar.  Yeasts  grow  very 
readily  in  dilute  solutions  containing  sugars  in  addition 
to  some  nitrogenous  and  mineral  matters.  Fruits  are 
usually  slightly  acid  and  in  general  do  not  support  bac- 
terial growth,  and  so  it  comes  about  that  canned  fruits 
are  more  commonly  fermented  by  yeast  than  by  bacteria. 

Some  vegetable  foods  have  so  much  acid  and  so  little 
nitrogenous  substance  that  very  few  bacteria  or  yeasts 
attack  them.  Lemons,  cranberries  and  rhubarb  belong 
to  this  class. 

Temperature  is  an  important  factor  in  the  growth  of 

bacteria  and  yeasts.  There  are  many  kinds  of  these  or- 
ganisms, and  each  kind  grows  best  at  a  certain  tem- 
perature, some  at  a  very  low  one  and  others  at  one  as 
high  as  125°  F.,  or  more.  However,  most  kinds  of  bac- 
teria are  destroyed  if  exposed  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes 
to  the  temperature  of  boiling  water  (212°  F.) ;  but,  if 
the  bacteria  are  spore  producers,  cooking  must  be  con- 
tinued for  an  hour  or  more  to  insure  their  complete  de- 
struction. Generally  speaking,  in  order  to  kill  the  spores 
the  temperature  must  be  higher  than  that  of  boiling 
water,  or  the  article  to  be  preserved  must  be  cooked  for 
about  two  hours  at  a  temperature  of  212°  F.,  or  a  shorter 
time  at  a  higher  temperature  under  pressure.  Yeasts 
and  their  spores  are,  however,  more  easily  destroyed 
by  heat  than  bacteria  spores.  Hence,  fruits  containing 
little  nitrogenous  material  are  more  easily  protected 
from  fermentation  than  nitrogenous  foods  in  which  in 
general  fermentation  is  cavlsed  by  bacteria.  Of  course, 
it  is  not  possible  to  know  what  kinds  of  organisms  are 
in  the  food  one  is  about  to  can  or  bottle;  but  we  do 
know  that  most  fruits  are  not  favorable  to  the  growth 
of  bacteria,  and,  as  a  rule,  the  yeasts  which  grow  in 
fruits  and  fruit  juice  can  be  destroyed  by  cooking  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes  at  a  temperature  of  212°  F.  If  no  liv- 
ing organisms  are  left,  and  the  sterilization  of  all  ap- 
pliances has  been  thorough,  there  is  no  reason  why  the 
fruit,  if  properly  sealed,  should  not  keep,  with  but  slight 
change  of  texture  or  flavor,  for  a  year  or  longer,  al- 
though canned  fruits  undergo  gradual  change  and  dete- 
rioration even  under  the  most  favorable  conditions. 

When  fruit  is  preserved  with  a  large  amount  of  sugar 
(a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit)  it  does  not  need 
to  be  hermetically  sealed  to  protect  it  from  bacteria  and 
yeasts,  because  the  thick,  sugary  sirup  formed  is  not  fa- 
vorable to  their  growth.  However,  the  self-sealing  jars 
are  much  better  than  keeping  such  fruit  in  large  re- 
ceptacles, from  which  it  is  taken  as  needed,  because  molds 
grow  freely  on  moist,  sugary  substances  exposed  to  the 
air 

MOLDS    AND  MOLDING. 

Every  housekeeper  is  familiar  With  molds  which,  under 
favorable  conditions  of  warmth  and  moisture,  grow  upon 
almost  any  kind  of  organic  material.  This  is  seen  in 
damp,  warm  weather,  when  molds  form  in  a  short  time 
on  all  sorts  of  starchy  foods,  such  as  boiled  potatoes, 
bread,  mush,  etc.,  as  well  as  fresh,  canned,  and  preserved 
fruits. 

IVIolds  develop  from  spores  which  are  always  floating 
about  in  the  air.  When  a  spore  falls  upon  a  substance 
containing  moisture  and  suitable  food  it  sends  out  a  fine 
thread,  which  branches  and  works  its  way  over  and  into 
the  attacked  substance.  In  a  short  time  spores  are  pro- 
duced and  the  work  of  reproduction  goes  on.  • 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


75 


In  the  first  stages  molds  are  white  or  light  gray  and 
hardly  noticeable;  but  when  spores  develop  the  growth 
gradually  becomes  colored.  In  fact,  the  conditions  of  ad- 
vanced growth  might  be  likened  to  those  of  a  flower 
garden.  The  threads— mycelium — might  be  likened  to 
the  roots  of  plants  and  the  spores  to  the  flower  and  seeds. 

Mold  spores  are  very  light  and  are  blown  about  by  the 
wind.  They  are  a  little  heavier  than  air,  and  drop  on 
shelves,  tables,  and  floor,  and  are  easily  set  in  motion 
again  by  the  movement  of  a  brush,  duster^  etc.  If  one  of 
these  spores  drops  on  a  jar  of  preserves  or  a  tumbler  of 
jelly,  it  will  germinate  if  there  be  warmth  and  moisture 
enough  in  the  storeroom.  Molds  do  not  ordinarily  cause 
fermentation  of  canned  foods,  although  they  are  the 
common  cause  of  the  decay  of  raw  fruits.  They  are  not 
as  injurious  to  canned  goods  as  are  bacteria  and  yeasts. 
They  do  not  penetrate  deeply  into  preserves  or  jellies,  or 
into  liquids  or  semiliquids,  but  if  given  time  they  will,  at 
ordinary  room  temperature,  work  all  through  suitable 
solid  substances  which  contain  moisture.  Nearly  every 
housekeeper  has  seen  this  in  the  molding  of  a  loaf  of 
bread  or  cake. 

In  the  work  of  canning,  preserving  and  jelly  making  it 
is  important  that  the  food  shall  be  protected  from  the 
growth  of  molds  as  well  as  the  growth  of  yeasts  and  bac- 
teria. 

To  kill  mold  spores  food  must  be  exposed  to  a  tempera- 
ture of  from  150°  F.  to  212°  F.  After  this  it  should  be 
kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place  and  covered  carefully  that  no 
floating  spore  can  find  lodgment  on  its  surface. 

STERILIZATION. 

To  sterilize  a  substance  or  thing  is  to  destroy  all  life 
and  sources  of  life  in  and  about  it.  In  following  the  brief 
outline  of  the  structure  and  work  of  bacteria,  yeasts  and 
molds,  it  has  been  seen  that  damage  to  foods  comes 
through  the  growth  of  these  organisms  on  or  in  the  food; 
also  that  if  such  organisms  are  exposed  to  a  temperature 
of  212°  F.,  life  will  be  destroyed,  but  that  spores  anr^  a 
few  resisting  bacteria  are  not  destroyed  at  a  tempera- 
ture of  212°  F.,  unless  exposed  to  it  for  two  or  more 
hours. 

Bacteria  and  yeasts,  which  are  intimately  mixed  with 
food,  are  not  as  easily  destroyed  as  are  those  on  smooth 
surfaces,  such  as  the  utensils  and  jars  employed  in  the 
preparation  of  the  food. 

Since  air  and  water,  as  well  as  the  foods,  contain  bac- 
teria and  yeasts,  and  may  contain  mold  spores,  all  uten- 
sils used  in  the  process  of  preserving  foods  are  liable 
to  be  contaminated  with  these  organisms.  For  this 
reason  all  appliances,  as  well  as  the  food,  must  be  steril- 
ized. 

Stewpans,  spoons,  strainers,  etc.,  may  be  put  on  the 
fire  in  cold  or  boiling  water  and  boiled  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Tumblers,  bottles,  glass  jars  and  covers  should 
bt  put  in  cold  water  and  heated  gradually  to  the  boiling 
point,  and  then  boiled  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  The 
jars  must  be  taken  one  at  a  time  from  the  boiling  water 
be  put  in  cold  water  and  heated  gradually  to  the  boiling 
food.  The  work  should  be  done  in  a  well  swept  and 
dusted  room,  and  the  clothing  of  the  workers  and  the 
towels  used  should  be  clean.  The  food  to  be  sterilized 
should  be  perfectly  sound  and  clean. 

As  in  this  bulletin  we  have  only  to  do  with  fruits,  it 
will  not  be  necessary  to  -ay  anything  more  about  long 
cooking  at  a  high  temperature. 

In  canning  fruits  it  is  well  to  remember  that  the 
product  is  more  satisfactory  if  heated  gradually  to 
the  boiling  point  and  then  cooked  the  given  time. 


UTENSILS    NEEDED    FOR    CANNING  AND 
PRESERVING. 

In  preserving,  canning  and  jelly  making  iron  or  tin 
utensils  should  never  be  used.  The  fruit  acids  attack 
these  metals  and  so  give  a  bad  color  and  metallic  tasto 
to  the  products.  The  preserving  kettles  should  be  porce- 
lain lined,  enameled,  or  of  a  metal  that  will  not  form 
troublesome  chemical  combinations  with  fruit  juices. 
The  kettles  should  be  broad  rather  than  deep,  as  the 
fruit  should  not  be  cooked  in  deep  layers.  Nearly  all 
the  necessary  utensils  may  be  found  in  some  ware  not 
subject  to  chemical  action.  A  list  of  the  most  essential 
articles  follows: 

Two  preserving  kettles,  one  colander,  one  fine  strainer, 
one  skimmer,  one  ladle,  one  large-mouthed  funnel,  ona 
wire  frying  basket,  one  wire  sieve,  four  long-handled 
wooden  spoons,  one  wooden  masher,  a  few  large  pans, 
knives  for  paring  fruit  (plated  if  possible),  flat-bot- 
tomed clothes  boiler,  wooden  or  willow  rack  to  put  in 
the  bottom  of  the  boiler,  iron  tripod  or  ring,  squares  of 
cheese  cloth.  In  addition,  it  would  be  well  to  have  a 
flannel  straining  bag,  a  frame  on  which  to  hang  the 
bag,  a  syrup  gauge  and  a  glass  cylinder,  a  fruit  pricker, 
and  plenty  of  clean  towels. 

The  regular  kitchen  pans  will  answer  for  holding  and 
washing  the  fruit.  Mixing  bowls  and  stone  crocks  can 
be  used  for  holding  the  fruit  juice  and  pared  fruit. 
When  fruit  is  to  be  plunged  into  boiling  water  for  a  few 
minutes  before  paring,  the  ordinary  stewpans  may  ba 
employed  for  this  purpose. 

Scales  are  a  desirable  article  in  every  kitchen,  as 
weighing  is  much  more  accurate  than  the  ordinary  meas- 
uring. But,  knowing  that  a  large  percentage  of  the 
housekeepers  do  not  possess  scales,  it  has  seemed  wis» 
to  give  all  the  rules  in  measure  rather  than  weight. 

If  canning  is  done  by  the  oven  process,  a  large  sheet 
of  asbestos,  for  the  bottom  of  the  oven,  will  prevent  tha 
cracking  of  jars. 

The  wooden  rack,  on  which  the  bottles  rest  in  tha 
washboiler,  is  made  in  this  manner:  Have  two  strips  of 
wood  measuring  1  inch  high,  1  inch  wide,  and  2  inches 
shorter  than  the  length  of  the  boiler.  On  these  pieces 
of  wood  tack  thin  strips  of  wood  that  are  IV2  inches 
shorter  than  the  width  of  the  boiler.  These  cross-strips 
should  be  about  1  inch  wide,  and  there  should  be  an 
inch  between  two  strips.  This  rack  will  support  the 
jars  and  will  admit  the  free  circulation  of  boiling  water 
about  them.  Young  willow  branches,  woven  into  a  mat, 
also  make  a  good  bed  for  bottles  and  jars. 

The  wire  basket  is  a  saver  of  time  and  strength.  The 
fruit  to  be  peeled  is  put  into  the  basket,  which  is  lowered 
into  a  deep  kettle  partially  filled  with  boiling  water. 
After  a  few  minutes  the  basket  is  lifted  from  the  boil- 
ing water,  plunged  for  a  moment  into  cold  water,  and 
the  fruit  is  ready  to  have  the  skin  drawn  off. 

A  strong  wire  sieve  is  a  necessity  when  purees  of  fruit 
are  to  be  made.  These  sieves  are  known  as  puree  sieves. 
They  are  made  of  strong  wire  and  in  addition  have  sup- 
ports of  still  stronger  wire. 

A  fruit  pricker  is  easily  made  and  saves  time.  Cut 
a  piece  half  an  inch  deep  from  a  btoad  cork;  press 
through  this  a  dozen  or  more  coarse  darning  needles; 
tack  the  cork  on  a  piece  of  board.  Strike  the  fruit  on 
the  bed  of  needles,  and  you  have  a  dozen  holes  at  once. 
When  the  work  is  finished,  remove  the  cork  from  the 
board,  wash  and  dry  thoroughly.  A  little  oil  on  the 
needles  will  prevent  rusting.  With  needles  of  the  size 
suggested  there  is  little  danger  of  the  points  breaking, 
but  it  is  worth  remembering  that  the  use  of  prinkin/j 
machines  was  abandoned  in  curing  prunes  on  a  cojUp 


76 


mercial  scale  In  California  because  the  steel  needles 
broke  and  remained  in  the  fruit. 

A  wooden  vegetable  masher  is  indispensable  when 
making  jellies  and  purees. 

A  syrup  gauge  and  glass  cylinder  are  not  essential  to 
preserving,  canning  and  jelly  making,  but  they  are  valu- 
able aids  in  getting  the  right  proportion  of  sugar  for 
fruit  or  jelly.  The  syrup  gauge  costs  about  50  cents  and 
the  cylinder  about  25  cents.  A  lipped  cylinder  that 
holds  a  little  over  a  gill  is  the  best  size. 

Small  iron  rings,  such  as  sometimes  come  off  the  hub 
of  cart  wheels,  may  be  used  instead  of  of  a  tripod  for 
slightly  raising  the  preserving  kettles  from  the  hot  stove 
or  range. 

To  make  a  flannel  straining  bag,  take  a  square  piece 
of  flannel  (27  by  27  inches  is  a  good  size),  fold  it  to 
make  a  three-cornered  bag,  stitch  one  of  the  sides,  cut 
the  top  square  across,  bind  the  opening  with  strong, 
broad  tape,  stitch  on  this  binding  four  tapes  with  which 
to  tie  the  bag  to  a  frame. 

To  use  this  oag,  tie  it  to  a  strong  frame  or  to  the 
backs  of  two  kitchen  chairs.  If  the  chairs  are  used,  place 
some  heavy  articles  in  them;  or  the  bag  may  hang  on 
a  pole  (a  broom  handle)  which  rests  on  the  backs  of  the 
chairs.  A  high  stool  turned  upside  down  makes  a  good 
support  for  the  bag.  Put  a  bowl  on  the  floor  under 
the  bag,  then  pour  in  the  fruit  juice,  which  will  pass 
through  comparatively  clear. 

Before  it  is  used  tlie  bag  should  be  washed  and  boiled 
in  clear  water. 

SELECTION  AND  PREPARATION  OF  THE  FRUIT. 

The  selection  of  fruit  is  one  of  the  first  steps  in  ob- 
taining successful  results.  The  flavor  of  fruit  is  not 
developed  until  it  is  fully  ripe,  but  the  time  at  which 
the  fruit  is  at  its  best  for  canning,  jelly  making,  etc., 
is  just  before  it  is  perfectly  ripe.  In  all  soft  fruits  the 
fermentative  stage  follows  closely  upon  the  perfectly  ripe 
stage,  therefore  it  is  better  to  use  underripe  rather  than 
overripe  fruit.  This  is  especially  important  in  jelly 
making  for  another  reason  also:  In  overripe  fruit  the 
pectin  begins  to  lose  its  jelly-making  quality. 

All  fruits  should,  if  possible,  be  freshly  picked  for 
preserving,  canning  and  jelly  making.  No  imperfect 
fraiT  should  be  canned  or  preserved.  Gnarly  fruit  may 
be  used  for  jellies  or  marmalades  by  cutting  out  defec- 
tive portions.  Bruised  spots  should  be  cut  out  of  peaches 
and  pears.  In  selecting  small-seeded  fruits,  like  berries, 
for  canning,  those  having  a  small  proportion  of  seed  to 
pulp  should  be  chosen.  In  dry  seasons  berries  have  a 
lai'ger  proportion  of  seeds  to  pulp  than  in  a  wet  or 
normal  season,  and  it  is  not  wise  to  can  or  pi-eserve  such 
fruit  unless  the  seeds  are  removed.  The  fruit  should  be 
rubbed  through  a  sieve  that  is  fine  enough  to  keep  back 
the  seeds.  The  strained  pulp  can  be  preserved  as  a 
puree  or  marmalade. 

When  fruit  is  brought  into  the  house  put  it  where  it 
■will  keep  cool  and  crisp  until  you  are  ready  to  use  it. 

The  preparation  of  fruit  for  the  various  processes  of 
pi'eserving  is  the  second  important  step.  System  will  do 
much  to  lighten  the  work. 

Begin  by  having  the  kitchen  swept  and  dusted  thor- 
oughly, that  there  need  not  be  a  large  number  of  mold 
KSvows  floating  about.  Dust  ivit.h  a  damp  cloth.  Have 
plenty  or  aiot  water  and  pans  in  which  jars  and  utensils 
may  be  sterilized.  Have  at  hand  all  necessary  utensils, 
towels,  su^ai",  etc. 

Prepare  only  as  much  fruit  as  can  be  cooked  while  it 
atill  retains  i*--^  color  and  crispness.   Before  beginning  to 


pare  fruit  have  some  syrup  ready,  if  that  is  to  be  used, 
or  if  sugar  is  to  be  added  to  the  fruit  have  it  weighed 
or  measured. 

Decide  upon  the  amount  of  fruit  you  will  cook  at 
one  time,  then  have  two  bowls — one  for  the  sugar  and 
one  for  the  fruit — that  will  hold  just  the  quantity  of 
each.  As  the  fruit  is  pared  or  hulled,  as  the  case  may 
be,  drop  it  into  its  measuring  bowl.  When  the  measure 
is  full  put  the  fruit  and  sugar  in  the  preserving  kettle. 
While  this  is  cooking  another  measure  may  be  prepared 
and  put  in  the  second  preserving  kettle.  In  this  way 
the  fruit  is  cooked  quickly  and  put  in  the  jars  and  sealed 
at  once,  leaving  the  pans  ready  to  sterilize  another  set 
of  jars. 

If  the  fruit  is  to  be  preserved  or  canned  with  syrup,  it 
may  be  put  into  the  jars  as  fast  as  it  is  prepared.  As 
soon  as  a  jar  is  full,  pour  in  enough  syrup  to  cover  it. 

If  several  people  are  h^'lping  and  large  kettles  are 
being  used  for  the  preseiwing,  or  where  fruit  (like  quinces 
and  hard  pears)  must  be  first  boiled  in  clear  water,  the 
pared  fruit  should  be  dropped  into  a  bowl  of  cold  water, 
made  slightly  acid  with  lemon  juice  (one  tablespoonful 
of  lemon  juice  to  a  quart  of  vvfater).  This  will  keep  tho 
fruit  white. 

All  large,  hard  fruit  must  be  washed  before  paring. 
Quinces  should  be  rubbed  with  a  coarse  towel  before 
they  are  washed. 

If  berries  must  be  washed,  do  the  work  before  stem- 
ming or  hulling  them.  The  best  way  to  wash  berries  is 
to  put  a  small  quantity  into  a  colander  and  pour  cold 
water  over  them;  tlien  turn  them  on  a  sieve  to  drain. 
All  this  work  must  be  done  quickly  tliat  the  fruit  may  not 
absorb  much  water. 

Do  not  use  the  fingers  for  hulling  strawberries.  A 
simple  huller  can  be  bought  for  five  cents. 

If  practicable  pare  fruit  with  a  silver  knife,  so  as  not 
to  stain  or  dai'ken  the  product.  The  quickest  and  easiest 
way  to  peel  peaches  is  to  drop  them  into  boiling  water 
for  a  few  minutes.  Have  a  deep  kettle  a  little  more  than 
half  full  of  boiling  water;  fill  a  wire  basket  with  peaches, 
put  a  long-handled  spoon  under  the  handle  of  the  ba.sket 
and  lower  into  the  boiling  water.  At  the  end  of  three 
minutes  lift  the  basket  out  by  slipping  the  spoon  under 
the  handle.  Plunge  the  basket  for  a  moment  into  a  pan 
of  cold  water.  Let  the  peaches  drain  a  minutes,  then 
peel.  Plums  and  tomatoes  may  be  peeled  in  the  same 
manner. 

If  the  peaches  are  to  be  canned  in  syrup,  put  them  at 
once  into  the  sterilized  jars.  They  may  be  canned  whole 
or  in  halves.  If  in  halves,  remove  nearly  all  the  stones 
or  pits.  For  the  sake  of  the  flavor,  a  few  stones  should 
be  put  in  each  jar. 

When  preparing  cherries,  plums  or  crabapples  for 
canning  or  preserving,  the  stem  or  a  part  of  it  may  be 
left  on  the  fruit. 

,  When  preparing  to  make  jelly  have  ready  the  cheese- 
cloth strainer,  enameled  colandei',  wooden  spoons,  vege- 
table masher,  tumblers,  preserving  kettles  and  sugar. 

If  currant  jelly  is  to  be  made,  free  the  fruit  from  leaves 
and  large  stems.  If  the  jelly  is  to  be  made  from  any 
of  the  other  small  fmits,  the  stems  and  hulls  must  be 
removed. 

When  the  jelly  is  to  be  made  from  any  of  the  large 
fruits,  the  important  part  of  the  preparation  is  to  have 
the  fruit  washed  clean,  then  to  remove  the  stem  and 
the  blossom  end.  Nearly  all  the  large  fruits  are  better 
for  having  the  skin  left  on.  Apples  and  pears  needs  not 
be  cored.  There  is  so  much  gummy  substance  in  the 
cores  of  quinces  that  it  is  best  not  to  use  this  portion 
in  making  fine  jelly. 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


77  ^ 


MAKING  SYRUP   FOR   USE   IN   CANNING  AND 
PRESERVING. 

Such  syrups  are  are  used  in  canning  and  preserving 
are  made  with  varying  proportions  of  water  and  sugar. 
When  the  proportion  of  sugar  is  large  and  that  of  the 
water  small  the  syrup  is  said  to  be  heavy.  When  the 
water  predominates  the  syrup  is  light. 

There  are  several  methods  of  measuring  the  propor- 
tion of  sugar  in  a  syi'up.  The  most  scientific  and  ac- 
curate is  with  the  syrup  gauge.  Careful  measurement 
or  weighing  is,  however,  quite  satisfactory  for  all  or- 
dinary work  if  the  syrup  need  not  be  boiled  a  long  time. 
In  boiling  the  water  evaporates  and  the  syrup  grows 
thicker  and  richer.  The  amount  of  evaporation  depends 
upon  the  surface  exposed  and  the  pressure  of  the  at- 
mosphere. For  example,  if  a  large  quantity  of  syrup 
is  boiled  in  a  deep  kettle  the  evaporation  will  not  be 
rapid.  If  the  same  quantity  of  syrup  were  boiled  the 
same  length  of  time  in  a  broad,  shallow  kettle  the  water 
would  evaporate  more  rapidly  and  the  synip  would  be 
thicker  and  heavier.  If  a  given  quantity  of  syinip  were 
boiled  the  same  length  of  time  in  a  high  altitude,  Colorado 
for  example,  and  at  the  sea  level,  it  would  be  found  that 
the  syrup  boiled  at  the  sea  level  would  be  thicker  and 
less  in  volume  than  that  boiled  in  Colorado.  From  this 
it  will  be  seen  that  it  is  difficult  to  say  what  propor- 
tion of  sugar  a  syrup  will  contain  after  it  has  been  boiled 
ten  or  more  minutes.  Of  course  by  the  use  of  the  syrup 
gauge  the  proportion  of  sugar  in  a  syrup  may  be  as- 
certained at  any  stage  of  the  boiling.  After  all,  how- 
ever, it  is  possible  to  measure  sugar  and  water  so  that 
you  can  know  the  percentage  of  sugar  when  the  syrup 
begins  to  boil.  The  following  statement  gives  the  per- 
centage of  sugar  at  the  time  when  the  syrup  has  been 
boiling  one  minute  and  also  what  kind  of  syrup  is  suita- 
ble for  the  various  kinds  of  fruit: 

One  pint  sugar  and  1  gill  of  water  gives  syrup  of  40"  density: 
u«e  for  preserved  strawberries  and  cherries. 

One  pint  sugar  and  one-half  pint  water  gives  syrup  of  32° 
density. 

One  pint  sugar  and  3  gills  water  gives  syrup  of  28°  density. 
Use  either  this  or  the  preceding  for  preserved  peaches,  plums, 
quinces,  currant;,  etc. 

One  pint  sugar  and  1  pint  water  gives  syrup  of  24  density: 
Use  for  canned  acid  fruits. 

One  pint  sugar  and  I  V2  pints  water  gives  syrup  of  1 7°  density. 

One  pint  sugar  and  2  pints  water  gives  syrup  of  14°  density: 
Use  cither  of  these  two  light  syrups  for  canned  pears,  peaches, 
sweet  plums,  and  cherries,  raspberries,  blueberries,  and  blackberries. 

The  lightest  syrups  may  be  used  for  filling  up  the 
jars  after  they  are  taken  from  the  oven  or  boiler.  The 
process  of  making  a  syrup  is  very  simple,  but  there  are 
a  few  points  that  must  be  observed  if  syrup  and  fruifcare 
to  be  perfect.  Put  tAje  sugar  and  water  ia  the  sauctpan 
and  stir  on  the  stove  until  all  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  gently  without 
stirring.  The  length  of  time  that  the  syrup  should  boil 
will  depend  upon  how  rich  it  is  to  be.  All  syrups  are 
better  for  boiling  from  ten  to  thirty  minutes.  If  rich 
syrups  are  boiled  hard,  jarred,  or  stirred  they  are  apt 
to  crystallize.  The  syrup  may  be  made  a  day  or  two  in 
advance  of  canning  time.  The  light  syrups  will  not 
keep  long  unless  sealed,  but  the  heavy  .syrups  keep  well 
if  covered  well. 

USE   OF   THE   SYRUP  GAUGE. 

The  syrup  gauge  is  a  graduated  glass  tube,  with  a 
weighted  bulb,  that  registers  from  0°  to  50°,  and  that 
i*  employed  to  determine  the  quantity  of  stigar  contained 
in  a  syrup,     -  ■    .  . 


If  this  gauge  is  placed  in  pure  water  the  bulb  will  rest 
on  the  bottom  of  the  cylinder  or  other  container.  If 
sugar  be  dissolved  in  the  water  the  gauge  will  begin  to 
float.  The  more  sugar  there  is  dissolved  in  the  water 
the  higher  the  gauge  will  rise.  In  making  tests  it  is 
essential  that  the  syrup  should  be  deep  enough  to  reach 
the  zero  point  of  the  gauge.  If  a  glass  cylinder  holdinaj 
about  half  a  gill  is  filled  to  about  two-thirds  its  height, 
and  the  gauge  is  then  placed  in  the  cylinder,  the  quan- 
tity of  sugar  in  the  syrup  will  be  registered  on  the 
gauge. 

Experiments  have  demonstrated  that  when  sugar  is 
dissolved  and  heated  in  fruit  juice,  if  the  syrup  gauge 
registers  25°,  the  proportion  of  sugar  is  exactly  right 
for  combining  with  the  jDectin  bodies  to  make  jelly.  The 
syrup  gauge  and  the  glass  cylinder  must  both  be  heated 
gradually  that  the  hot  syi-up  may  not  break  them.  If 
the  gauge  registers  more  than  25°,  add  a  little  more 
fiuit  juice.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  it  registers  less  than 
25°,  add  more  sugar.  In  making  syrups  for  canning 
and  preserving  fi-uits,  the  exact  amount  of  sugar  in  a 
syrup  may  be  ascei-tained  at  any  stage  of  boiling,  and 
the  syrup  be  made  heavier  by  adding  sugar,  or  lighter 
by  adding  water,  as  the  case  demands. 

I  CANNING  FRUIT. 

This  method  of  preserving  fruit  for  home  use  is  from 
all  points  the  most  desirable.  It  is  the  easiest  and  com- 
monly considered  the  most  economical  and  the  best, 
because  the  fruit  is  kept  in  a  soft  and  juicy  condition 
in  which  it  is  believed  to  be  easily  digested.  The  wise 
housekeeper  will  can  her  principal  fruit  supply,  making 
only  enough  rich  preserves  to  serve  for  variety  and  for 
special  occasions. 

The  success  of  canning  depends  upon  absolute  steriliza- 
tion. If  the  proper  care  is  exercised  there  need  be  no 
failure,  except  in  rare  cases,  when  a  spore  has  developed 
in  the  can.  There  are  several  methods  of  canning;  and 
while  the  principle  is  the  same  in  all  methods,  the  con- 
ditions under  which  the  housekeeper  must  do  her  work 
may,  in  her  case,  make  one  method  more  convenient 
than  another.  For  this  reason  three  will  be  given  which 
are  considered  the  best  and  easiest.  These  are:  Cook- 
ing the  fruit  in  the  jars  in  an  oven;  cooking  the  fi-uit 
in  the  jars  in  boiling  water;  and  stewing  the  fruit  be- 
fore it  is  put  in  the  jars.  The  quantity  of  sugar  may 
be  increased  if  the  fruit  is  liked  sweet. 

It  is  most  important  that  the  jars,  covers,  and  rub- 
ber rings  be  in  perfect  condition.  Examine  each  jar 
and  cover  to  see  that  there  is  no  defect  in  it.  Use  only 
fresh  rubber  rings,  for  if  the  rubber  is  not  soft  and 
elastic  the  sealing  will  not  be  perfect.  Each  year  num- 
bers of  jars  of  fruit  are  lost  because  of  the  false  econ- 
omy in  using  aTi  old  ring  that  has  ^^st  its  softness  and 
elj.:Sticity.  Having  the  jar?:-,  covers  (snd  rings  in  perfect 
condition,,  the  next  thing  is  to  wash  and  sterilize  them. 

Have  two  pans  partially  filled  with  cold  water.  Put 
some  jars  in  one,  laying  them  on  their  sides,  and  soma 
covers  in  the  other.  Place  the  pans  on  the  stove  where 
the  water  will  heat  to  the  boiling  point.  The  water 
should  boil  at  least  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Have  on  the 
stove  a  shallow  milk  pan  in  which  there  is  about  2  inches 
of  boiling  water.  Sterilize  the  cups,  spoons,  and  funnel, 
if  you  use  one,  by  immersing  in  boiling  water  for  a 
few  minutes.  When  ready  to  put  the  prepared  fruit 
in  the  jars  slip  a  broad  skimmer  under  a  jar  and  lift 
it  and  drain  free  of  water.  Set  the  jar  in  the  shallo\w 
milk  pan  and  fill  to  overflowing  with  the  boiling  fruit. 
Slip  a  silver-plated  knife  or  the  handle  of  a  spoon  around 
the  inside  of  the  jar,  that  the  fruit  and  juice  may 


78  GOVERNMENT 


packed  solidly.  Wipe  the  rim  of  the  jar,  dip  the  rubber 
ring  in  boiling  water  and  put  it  smoothly  on  the  jar, 
then  put  on  the  cover  and  fasten.  Place  the  jar  on  a 
board  and  out  of  a  draft  of  cold  air.  The  work  of  filling 
and  sealing  must  be  done  rapidly,  and  the  fruit  must  be 
boiling  hot  when  it  is  put  into  the  jars.  If  screw  tops 
are  use,  it  will  be  necessai-y  to  tighten  them  after  the 
glass  has  cooled  and  contracted.  When  the  fruit  is  cold 
wipe  the  jars  with  a  wet  cloth.  Paste  on  the  labels,  if 
any,  and  put  the  jars  on  shelves  in  a  cool,  dark  closet. 

In  canning,  any  proportion  of  sugar  may  be  used,  or 
fruit  may  be  canned  without  the  addition  of  any  sugar. 
However,  that  which  is  designed  to  be  served  as  a  sauce 
should  have  the  sugar  cooked  with  it.  Fruit  intended 
for  cooking  purposes  need  not  have  the  sugar  added 
to  it. 

Juicy  fruits,  such  as  berries  and  cherries,  require  lit- 
tle or  no  water.  Strawberries  are  better  not  to  hav2 
water  added  to  them.  The  only  exception  to  this  is  when 
they  are  cooked  in  a  heavy  syrup. 

RASPBERRIES 

12  quarU  of  raspberries.  2  quarts  of  sugar. 

Put  2  quarts  of  the  fruit  in  the  preserving  kettle;  heat  slowly  on 
ihe  stove;  crush  with  a  wooden  vegetable  masher;  spread  a  square  of 
cheese  cloth  over  a  bowl,  and  turn  the  crushed  berries  and  juice  into 
it.  Press  out  the  juice,  which  turn  into  the  preserving  kettle.  Add 
the  sugar  and  put  on  the  stove ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  When 
the  syrup  begins  to  boil,  add  the  remaining  10  quarts  of  berries. 
Let  them  heat  slowly.  Boil  ten  minutes,  counting  from  the  time 
they  begin  to  bubble.  Skim  well  while  boiling.  Put  in  cans  and 
teal  as  directed. 

RASPBERRIES  AND  CURRANTS. 
10  quarU  of  raspberries.  IVz  quarts  of  sugar. 

3  quarts  of  currants. 

Heat,  crush,  and  press  the  juice  from  the  currants  and  proceed 
as  directed  for  raspberries. 

BLACKBERRIES. 
'  The  same  as  for  raspberries. 

CURRANTS. 

12  quarts  of  currants,  4  quarts  of  sugar. 

Treat  the  same  as  for  raspberries. 

GOOSEBERRIES. 

6  quarts  of  berries.  1  pint  of  water. 

IJ4  quarts  of  sugar. 

For  green  gooseberries  dissolve  the  sugar  !n  the  water,  then  add 
the  fruit  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Ripe  gooseberries  are  to  be 
treated  the  same  as  the  green  fruit,  but  use  only  half  as  much  water. 
Green  gooseberries  may  also  be  canned  the  same  as  rhubarb. 

BLUEBERRIES. 

12  quarts  of  berries  Vl  pint  of  water. 

]  quart  of  sugar. 

Put  water,  berries,  and  sugar  in  the  preserving  kettle;  heat  slowly. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes,  counting  from  the  time  the  contents  of  the  kettle 
begin  o  bubble. 

CHERRIES. 

6  quarts  of  cherries.  Yi  pint  of  water. 

1^2  quarts  of  sugar. 

Measure  the  cherries  after  the  stems  have  been- removed.  Stone 
them  or  not,  as  you  please.  If  you  stone  them  be  careful  to  save  all 
the  juice.  Put  the  sugar  and  water  in  the  preserving  kettle  and  stir 
over  the  fire  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Put  in  the  cherries  and 
heal  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  Boil  ten  minutes,  skimming 
carefully. 

GRAPES. 

"6  quarts  of  grapes.  I  gill  of  water. 

\  quart  e-f  sygar. 

Squeeze  th2  pulp  of  the  grapes  out  of  the  skins,    Cook  the  pulp 


COOK  BOOK 


five  minutes  and  then  rub  through  a  sieve  that  is  fine  enough  to  bold 
back  the  seeds.  Put  the  water,  skins,  and  pulp  into  the  preserving 
kettle  and  heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  Skim  the  fruit  and  Aen 
add  the  sugar.    Boil  fifteen  minutes. 

Sweet  grapes  may  be  canned  with  lets  sugar;  very  tour  ones  may 
have  more. 

RHUBARB. 

Cut  the  rhubarb  when  it  is  young  and  tender.  Wash  it  thoroughly 
and  then  pare;  cut  into  pieces  about  2  inches  long.  Pack  in  sterilized 
jars.  Fill  the  jars  to  overflowing  with  cold  water  and  let  them  stand 
ten  minutes.  Drain  off  the  water  and  fill  again  to  overflowing  with 
fresh  cold  water.  Seal  with  sterilized  rings  and  covers.  When  re- 
quired for  use,  treat  the  same  as  fresh  rhubarb. 

Green  gooseberries  may  be  canned  in  the  same  manner.  Rhubard 
may  be  cooked  and  canned  with  sugar  in  the  same  manner  as  goose- 
berries. 

PEACHES. 

8  quarts  of  peaches.  3  quarts  of  water. 

I  quart  of  sugar. 

Put  the  sugar  and  water  together  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  die 
sugar  is  dissolved.  WTien  the  syrup  boils  skim  it.  Draw  the  kettle 
back  where  the  syrup  will  keep  hot  but  not  boil. 

Pare  the  peaches,  cut  in  halves,  and  remove  the  stones,  unless  yott 
prefer  to  can  the  fruit  whole. 

Put  a  layer  of  the  prepared  fruit  into  the  preserving  kettle  and 
cover  with  some  of  the  hot  syrup.  When  the  fruit  begins  to  boil, 
skim  carefully.  Boil  gently  for  ten  minutes,  then  put  in  the  jars  and 
seal.  If  the  fruit  is  not  fully  ripe  if  may  require  a  little  longer  time  to 
cook.  It  is  best  to  put  only  one  layer  of  fruit  in  the  preserving  kettle. 
While  this  is  cooking  the  fruit  for  the  next  batch  may  be  pared. 

PEARS. 

If  the  fruit  is  ripe  it  may  be  treated  exactly  the  same  as  peaeKes. 
If,  on  the  other  hand,  it  is  rather  hard  it  must  be  cooked  until  m 
tender  that  a  silver  fork  will  pierce  it  readily. 

QUINCES. 

4  quarts  of  pared,  cored  and       V/i  quarts  of  sugar. 

quartered  quinces.  2  quarts  of  water. 

Rub  the  fruit  hard  with  a  coarse,  crash  towel,  then  wash  and  drain. 
Pare,  quarter  and  core;  drop  the  pieces  into  cold  water.  Put  the 
fruit  in  the  preserving  kettle  with  cold  water  to  cover  it  generously. 
Heat  slowly  and  simmer  gently  until  tender.  The  piece*  will  not 
all  require  the  same  lime  to  cook.  Take  each  piece  up  as  soon  as 
it  is  so  tender  that  a  silver  fork  will  pierce  it  readily.  Drain  on  a 
platter.  Strain  the  water  in  which  the  fruit  was  cooked  through  cheese 
cloth.  Put  two  quarts  of  the  strained  liquid  and  the  sugar  into  the 
preserving  kettle;  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 
When  it  boils  skim  well  and  put  in  the  cooked  fruit  Boil  gently 
for  about  twen^  minutes. 

CRABAPPLES. 
6  quarts  of  apples,  2  quarts  of  water. 

1  J/2  quarts  of  sugar. 

Put  the  sugar  and  water  into  the  preserving  kettle.  Stir  over  lh« 
fire  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.    When  the  syrup  boils  skim  it. 

Wash  the  fruit,  rubbing  the  blossom  end  well.  Put  it  in  die  boil- 
ing syrup,  and  cook  gently  until  tender.  It  will  take  from  twenty  to 
fifty  minutes,  depending  upon  the  kind  of  crap  apple. 

PLUMS. 

8  quarts  of  plums.  I  pint  of  water. 

2  quarts  of  sugar. 

Nearly  all  kinds  of  plums  can  be  cooked  with  ihe  skins  on.  If  it 
is  desired  to  remove  the  skin  of  any  variety,  plunge  them  in  boiling 
water  for  a  few  minutes.  When  the  skins  are  loft  on,  prick  them 
thoroughly  to  prevent  bursting. 

Put  the  sugar  and  water  into  the  preserving  kettle  and  stir  over  the 
fire  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Wash  and  drain  the  plums.  Put 
some  of  the  fruit  in  the  boiling  syrup.  Do  not  crowd  it.  Cook  fiv« 
minutes;  fill  and  seal  the  jars.  Put  more  fruit  in  the  syrup.  Con- 
tinue in  this  manner  until  all  the  fruit  is  done.  If  may  be  that  there 
will  not  be  sufficient  syrup  toward  the  latter  part  of  the  work;  for 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


79 


this  reason  it  i*  well  to  have  a  little  extra  syrup  on  the  back  of  the 
itove. 

STEWED  TOMATOES. 

Wa»h  the  tomatoes  and  plunge  into  boiling  water  for  five  minutes. 
Pare  and  slice,  and  then  put  into  the  preserving  kettle;  set  the  kettle 
on  ui  iron  ring.  Heat  the  tomatoes  slowly,  stirring  frequently  from 
the  bottom.  Boil  for  thirty  minutes,  counting  from  the  time  the 
vegetable  begins  actually  to  boil.    Put  in  sterilized  jars  and  seal. 

WHOLE  TOMATOES. 
8  quarts  of  medium-sized  tomatoes     4  quarts  of  sliced  tomatoes. 

Put  Ae  pared  and  sliced  tomatoes  into  a  stewpan  and  cook  as  di- 
rected for  stewed  tomatoes.  When  they  have  been  boiling  twenty 
minutes  take  from  the  fire  and  rub  through  a  strainer.  Return 
to  the  fire. 

While  the  sliced  tomatoes  are  cooking,  pare  the  whole  tomatoes 
and  put  them  in  sterilized  jars.  Pour  into  the  jars  enough  of  the 
•tewed  and  strained  tomato  to  fill  all  the  interstices.  Put  the  un- 
covered jars  in  a  moderate  oven,  placing  them  on  a  pad  of  asbestos 
or  in  shallow  pans  of  hot  water.  Lei  the  vegetable  cook  in  the  oven 
for  half  an  hour.  Take  from  the  oven  and  fill  to  overflowing  with 
boiling  hot,  strained  tomato,  then  seal.  H  ibere  is  any  of  the  strained 
tomato  left,  can  it  for  sauces. 

CANNED  FRUIT  COOKED  IN  THE  OVEN. 

This  method  of  canning  fruit,  in  the  opinion  of  the  writer,  is  the 
one  to  be  preferred.  The  work  is  easily  and  quickly  done,  and  the 
fruit  retains  its  shape,  color,  and  flavor  belter  than  when  cooked  in 
•he  preserving  kettle. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  the  oven  with  a  sheet  of  asbestos,  the  kind 
plumbers  employ  in  covering  pipes.  It  is  very  cheap  and  may  usually 
be  found  at  plumbers'  shops.  If  the  asbestos  is  not  available,  put  into 
the  oven  shallow  pans  in  which  there  are  aboui  two  inches  of  boiling 
water. 

Sterilize  the  jars  and  utensils.  Make  the  syrup;  prepare  the  fruit 
the  same  as  for  cooking  in  the  preserving  kettle  Fill  the  hot  iars 
with  it,  and  pour  in  enough  syrup  to  fill  the  jar  solidly.  Run  »he 
blade  of  a  silver-plated  knife  around  the  inside  of  the  jar.  Place  the 
jars  in  the  oven,  either  on  the  asbestos  or  in  the  pan  of  water.  Th<» 
oven  should  be  moderately  hot.  Cook  ihe  fruit  ten  minutes;  remove 
from  the  oven  and  fill  the  jar  with  boiling  syrup.  Wipe  and  seal. 
Place  the  jars  on  a  board  and  out  of  a  draft  of  air.  If  the  screw 
covers  are  used  tighten  them  after  the  glass  has  cooled. 

Large  fruits,  such  as  peaches,  pearls,  quinces,  crabapples,  etc.,  will 
require  about  a  pint  of  syrup  to  each  quart  jar  of  fruit.  The  small 
fruit  will  require  a  little  over  half  a  p'nt  of  syrup. 

The  amount  of  sugar  in  each  quart  of  syrup  should  be  regulated 
to  suit  the  fruit  with  which  it  is  to  be  used.  The  quantity  of  sugar 
may  be  increased  or  diminished  to  suit  the  taste. 

CANNED  FRUIT  COOKED  IN  A  WATER  BATH. 

Prepare  the  fruit  and  syrup  as  for  cooking  in  the  oven. 

Fill  the  sterilized  jars  and  put  th ;  covers  on  loosely.  Have  a 
wooden  rack  in  the  bottom  of  a  wash  boiler  Put  in  enough  warm 
water  to  come  to  about  4  inches  above  the  rark.  Place  the  filled 
jars  in  the  boiler,  but  do  not  let  them  touch  one  annther.  Pack  clean 
while  cotton  rags,  or  perhaps  better,  cotton  rope,  between  and  around 
the  jars  to  prevent  then  from  striking  one  another  when  the  -water 
begins  to  boil.  Cover  the  boiler  and  let  the  fruit  cook  ten  minutes 
from  the  time  the  water  surrounding  it  begins  to  boil. 

Draw  the  boiler  back  and  take  off  the  cover.  When  the  steam 
passes  off  take  out  one  jar  at  a  time  and  place  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water  beside  the  boiler,  fill  up  with  boiling  syrup,  and  seal.  Put 
the  jars  on  a  board  and  do  not  let  cold  air  blow  upon  them.  If 
screw  tops  are  used  tighten  them  when  the  glass  has  cooled  and  con- 
tracted. 

PRESERVING  FRUIT. 

In  the  case  of  most  fruits,  canning  with  a  little  sugar  is  to  be  pre- 
ferred to  preserving  with  a  large  quantity  of  sugar.  There  are,  how- 
ever, some  fruits  that  are  only  good  when  preserved  with  a  good  deal 
of  sugar.  Of  course,  such  preparations  of  fruit  are  only  desirable  for 
occasional  use.    The  fruits  best  adapted  for  preservMg  ai»  Mnv 


berries,  sour  cherries,  sour  plums  and  quinces.  Such  rich  prepara- 
tions should  be  put  up  in  small  jars  or  tumblers. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

Use  equal  weights  of  sugar  and  strawberries.  Put  the  strawberries 
in  the  preserving  kettle  in  layers,  sprinkling  sugar  over  each  layer. 
The  fruit  and  sugar  should  not  be  more  than  4  inches  deep.  Place 
the  kettle  on  the  stove  and  heat  the  fruit  and  sugar  slowly  to  the  boil- 
ing point.  When  it  begins  to  boil  skim  carefully.  Boil  ten  minutes, 
counting  from  the  time  the  fruit  begins  to  bubble.  Pour  the  cooked 
fruit  into  platters,  having  it  about  2  or  3  inches  deep.  Place  the 
platters  in  a  sunny  window,  in  an  unustd  room,  for  three  or  four 
days.  In  that  time  the  fruit  will  grow  plump  and  firm,  and  the  syrup 
will  thicken  almost  to  a  jelly.  Put  this  preserve,  cold,  into  jars  or 
tumblers. 

WHITE  CURRANTS. 

Select  large,  firm  fruit,  remove  the  stems,  and  proceed  as  for 
strawberries. 

CHERRIES. 

The  sour  cherries,  such  as  Early  Richmond  and  Montmorency,  are 
best  for  this  preserve.  Remove  the  stems  and  stones  from  the  cherries 
and  proceed  as  for  strawberry  preserve. 

CHERRIES  PRESERVED  WITH  CURRANT  JUICE. 

12  quarts  of  cherries.  2  quarts  of  sugar. 

3  quarts  of  rurrants. 

Put  the  currants  in  the  preserving  kettle  and  on  the  fire.  When 
they  boil  up  crush  them  and  strain  through  cheese  cloth,  pressing  out 
all  the  juice.  * 

Stem  and  stone  the  cherries,  being  careful  to  save  all  the  juice. 
Put  the  cherries,  fruit  juice,  and  sugar  in  the  preserving  kettle.  Heat 
to  the  boiling  point  and  skim  carefully.  Boil  for  twenty  ii)inute«. 
Put  in  sterilized  jars  or  tumblers.  This  gives  an  acid  preserve.  The 
sugar  inav  be  doubled  if  richer  preserves  are  desired. 

PLUM  PRESERVE. 

4  quarts  of  green  gages.  I  pint  of  water. 

2  quarts  of  sugar. 

Prick  the  fruit  and  put  it  in  a  preserving  kettle.  Cover  generously 
with  cold  water.  Heat  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  gently  for  five 
minutes.    Drain  well. 

Put  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  stir  over  the  fire 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  five  minutes,  skimming  well.  Put 
the  drained  green  gages  in  this  syrup  and  cook  gently  for  twenty 
minutes.    Put  in  sterilized  jars. 

Other  plums  may  be  preserved  in  the  sami!  manner.  The  skin* 
should  be  removed  from  white  plums. 

QUINCES 

4  quarts  of  pared,  quartered,  and 2  quarts  of  sugar. 

cored  quinces.  1  quart  of  water. 

Boil  the  fruit  in  clear  water  until  it  is  tender,  then  skim  out  and 
drain. 

Put  the  2  quarts  of  sugar  and  1  quart  of  water  in  the  preserving 
kettle:  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Let  it  heat  slowly  to  the 
boiling  point.  Skim  well  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  Pour  one-half 
of  the  syrup  into  -i  second  kettle.  Put  one-half  of  the  cooked  and 
drained  fruit  into  each  kettle.  Simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour,  then 
put  in  sterilized  jars.  The  water  in  which  the  fruit  was  boiled  can 
be  used  with  the  parings,  cores,  and  gnarly  fruit  to  make  jelly. 

FRUIT  PUREES. 

Purees  of  fruit  are  in  the  nature  of  marmalades,  but  they  are  not 
cooked  so  long,  and  so  retain  more  of  the  natural  flavor  of  the  fruit. 
This  is  a  particularly  nice  way  to  preserve  the.  small,  seedy  fruits, 
which  are  to  be  used  in  puddings,  cake,  and  frozen  desserts. 

Free  the  fruit  from  leaves,  stems,  and  decayed  portions.  Peaches 
and  plums  should  have  the  skins  and  stones  removed.  Rub  the  fruit 
through  a  puree  sieve.  To  each  quart  of  the  strained  fruit  add  a  pint 
of  sugar.  Pack  in  sterilized  jars.  Put  the  covers  foosely  on  the  jars. 
Place  the  jars  on  the  rack  in  the  boiler.  Pour  in  enough  cold  water 
te  com&  katf        up  the  lidei  oi  the  jars.    Heat  gradually  to  iht 


80 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOI? 


boiling  point  and  boil  thirty  minutes,  counting  from  the  time  when 
Aa  water  begins  to  bubble. 

Have  some  boiling  syrup  ready.  As  each  jar  is  taken  from  the 
boiler  put  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  fill  up  with  the  hot  syrup.  Seal 
at  unco. 

MARMALADES. 

Marmalades  require  great  care  while  cooking  because  no  moisture 
is  added  to  the  fruit  and  sugar.  If  the  marmalade  is  made  from  ber- 
ries the  fruit  should  be  rubbed  through  a  sieve  to  remove  the  seeds. 
If  large  fruit  is  used  have  if  washed,  pared,  cored  and  quartered. 

Measure  the  fruit  and  sugar,  allowing  one  pint  of  sugar  to  each 
quart  of  fruit. 

Rinse  the  preserving  kettle  with  cold  water  that  there  may  be  a 
slight  coat  of  moisture  on  the  sides  and  bottom.  Put  alternate  layers 
of  fruit  and  sugar  in  the  kettle,  having  the  first  layer  fruit.  Heat 
ilowly,  stirring  frequently.  While  stirring,  break  up  the  fruit  as 
much  as  possible.  Cook  about  two  hours,  then  put  in  small  sterilized 
jars. 

FRUIT   PRESERVED   IN   GRAPE  JUICE. 

Any  kind  of  fruit  can  be  preserved  by  this  method,  but  it  is  par- 
ticularly good  of  apples,  pears,  and  sweet  plums.  No  sugar  need  be 
used  in  this  process. 

Boil  6  quarts  of  grape  juice  in  an  open  preserving  kettle,  until  it  is 
reduced  to  4  quarts.  Have  the  fruit  washed  and  pared,  and,  if  apples 
or  pears,  quartered  and  cored.  Put  the  prepared  fruit  in  a  preserving 
kettle  and  cover  generously  with  the  boiled  grape  juice.  Boil  gently 
until  the  fruit  is  clear  and  tender,  then  put  in  sleriized  jars. 

BOILED  CIDER. 

When  the  apple  crop  is  abundant  and  a  large  quantity  of  cider  is 
made,  the  housekeeper  will  find  it  to  her  advantage  to  put  up  a  gener- 
ous supply  of  boiled  cider.  Such  cider  greatly  improves  mince-meat, 
and  can  be  used  at  any  time  of  the  year  to  make  cider  apple  sauce. 
It  is  also  a  good  selling  article. 

The  cider  for  boiling  must  be  perfectly  fresh  and  sweet.  Put  it  in 
a  large,  open  preserving  kettle  and  boil  until  it  is  reduced  one-half. 
Skim  frequently  while  boiling.  Do  not  have  the  ketlle  more  lhan 
two-thirds  full. 

Put  in  bottles  or  stone  jugs. 

CIDER  APPLE  SAUCE. 

5  quarts  of  boiled  cider.  8  quarts  of  pared,  quartered  and 

cored  sweet  apples. 

Put  the  fruit  in  a  large  preserving  kettle  and  cover  with  the  boiled 
cider.  Cook  slowly  until  the  apples  are  clear  and  tender.  To  prevent 
burning,  place  the  kettle  on  an  iron  tripod  or  ring.  It  will  require 
from  two  to  three  hours  to  cook  the  apples.  If  you  find  it  necessary 
to  stir  the  sauce  be  careful  to  break  the  apples  as  little  as  possible. 
When  the  sauce  is  cooked,  put  in  sterilized  jars. 

In  the  late  spring,  when  cooking  apples  have  lost  much  of  their 
flavor  and  acidity,  an  appetizing  sauce  may  be  made  by  slewing  them 
with  diluted  boiled  cider,  using  1  cupful  of  cider  li>  3  of  water. 

CIDER  PEAR  SAUCE. 

Cooking  pears  may  be  preserved  in  boiled  cider  the  same  as  sweet 
apples.  If  one  prefers  the  sauce  less  sour,  I  pint  of  sugar  may  be 
added  to  each  quart  of  boiled  cider. 

METHODS   OF  MAKING  JELLY. 

In  no  department  of  preserving  does  the  housekeeper  feel  less  sure 
of  the  result  lhan  in  jelly  making.  The  rule  that  works  perfectly  one 
lime  fails  another  time.  Why  this  is  so  the  average  housekeeper  does 
not  know;  so  there  is  nearly  always  an  element  of  uncertainly  as  to 
the  result  of  the  work.  These  two  questions  are  being  constantly 
asked:  "Why  does  not  my  jelly  harden?"  "What  causes  my  jelly 
to  candy?" 

It  is  an  easy  matter  to  say  that  there  is  something  in  the  condition 
of  the  fruit,  or  that  the  fruit  juice  and  sugar  were  cooked  too  short  or 
too  long  a  time.  These  explanations  are  often  true;  but  they  do  not 
help  the  inquirer,  since  at  other  limes  just  that  proportion  of  suyar 
and  lime  of  cooking  have  given  perfect  jelly.  In  the  following  pages 
an  altenipl  is  made  to  give  a  clear  explanation  of  the  principles  under- 


lying the  process  of  jelly  making.  It  is  believed  that  the  women  who 
study  this  carefully  will  find  the  key  to  unvarying  success  in  thi» 
branch  of  preserving. 

PECTIN,  PECTOSE,  PECTASE.  - 
In  all  fruits,  when  ripe  or  nearly  so,  there  is  found  pectin,  a  carbo- 
hydrate somewhat  similar  in  its  properties  to  starch.  It  is  because  of 
this  substance  in  the  fruit  juice  that  we  are  able  to  make  jelly.  When 
equal  quantities  of  sugar  and  fruit  juice  are  combined  and  the  mix- 
ture is  heated  to  the  boiling  pom!  for  a  short  time,  the  pectin  in  the 
fruit  gelatinizes  the  mass. 

It  is  important  that  the  jelly  maker  should  understand  when  this 
gelatinizing  agent  is  at  its  best.  Pectose  and  peclase  always  exist  in 
the  unripe  fruit.  As  the  fruit  ripens  the  pectase  acts  upon  the 
pectose,  which  is  insoluble  in  water,  converting  it  into  pectin,  which  it 
soluble.  Pectin  is  at  its  best  when  the  fruit  is  just  ripe  or  a  little  be- 
fore. If  the  juice  ferments,  or  the  cooking  of  the  jelly  is  continued 
too  long,  the  pectin  undergoes  a  change  and  loses  its  power  of 
gelatinizing.  It  is,  therefore,  of  the  greatest  importance  that  the  fruit 
should  be  fresh,  just  ripe  or  a  little  underripe,  and  that  the  boiling 
of  the  sugar  and  juice  should  not  be  continued  too  long. 

Fruits  vary  as  to  the  quantities  of  sugar,  acid,  pectin,  and  gums  in 
their  composition.  Some  of  the  sour  fruits  contain  more  sugar  than 
do  some  of  the  milder-flavored  fruits.  Currants,  for  example,  often 
:ontain  four  or  five  times  as  much  sugar  as  the  peach.  The  peach 
Joes  not  contain  so  much  free  acid  and  it  does  contain  a  great  deal  of 
>ectin  bodies,  which  mask  the  acid;  hence,  the  comparative  sweelnetf 
if  the  ripe  fruit. 

SELECTION    AND    HANDLING    OF    FRUIT  FOR 
JELLY  MAKING. 

An  acid  fruit  is  the  most  suitable  for  jelly  making,  though  in  some 
of  the  acid  fruits,  the  strawberry,  for  example,  the  quantity  of  the 
jelly-making  pectin  is  so  small  that  it  is  difficull  to  make  jelly  with 
this  fruit.  If,  however,  some  currant  juice  Is  added  to  the  straw- 
berry juice,  a  pleasant  jelly  will  be  the  result;  yet,  of  course,  the 
flavor  of  the  strawberry  will  be  modified.  Here  is  a  list  of  the  most 
desirable  fruits  for  jelly  making.  The  very  best  are  given  first:  Cur- 
rant, crabapple,  apple,  quince,  grape,  blackberry,  raspberry,  peach. 

Apples  make  a  very  mild  jelly,  and  it  may  be  flavored  with  fruits, 
flowers  or  spices.  If  the  apples  are  acid  it  is  not  advisable  to  use 
any  flavor. 

Juicy  fruits,  such  as  currants,  raspberries,  etc.,  should  not  be 
gathered  after  a  rain,  for  they  will  have  absorbed  so  much  water  as  to 
make  it  difficult,  without  excessive  boiling,  to  get  the  juice  to  jelly. 

If  berries  are  sandy  or  dusty  it  will  be  necessary  to  wash  them,  but 
the  work  should  be  done  very  quickly  so  that  the  fruit  may  not  absorb 
much  water. 

Large  fruits,  such  as  apples,  peaches,  and  pears,  must  be  boiled  in 
water  until  soft.  The  strained  liquid  will  contain  the  flavoring  mat- 
ter and  pectin. 

It  requires  more  work  and  skill  to  make  jellies  from  the  fruits  to 
which  water  must  be  added  lhan  from  the  juicy  fruits.  If  the  juicy 
fruits  are  galhered  at  ihe  proper  time  one  may  be  nearly  sure  that 
they  contain  ihe  right  proportion  of  water.  If  galhered  after  a  rain 
llie  fruit  must  be  boiled  a  liltle  longer  that  the  superfluous  water  may 
pass  off  in  steam. 

In  the  case  of  the  large  fruits  a  fair  estimate  is  3  quarts  of  strained 
juice  from  8  quarts  of  fruit  and  about  4  quarts  of  water.  If  the 
quantity  of  juice  is  greater  lhan  this  it  should  be  boiled  down  to  3 
quarts. 

Apples  will  always  require  4  quarts  of  water  to  8  quarts  of  fruit, 
but  juicy  peaches  and  plums  will  require  only  3  to  3[/2  quarts. 

The  jelly  will  be  clearer  and  finer  if  the  fruit  is  simmered  gently 
and  not  stirred  during  the  cooking. 

It  is  always  best  to  strain  the  juice  first  through  cheese  cloth  and 
without  pressure.  If  the  cloth  is  double  the  juice  will  be  quite  clear. 
When  a  very  clear  jelly  is  desired  the  strained  juice  should  pass 
through  a  flanntl  or  fell  bag.  The  juice  may  be  pressed  from  the 
fruit  left  in  the  strainer  and  used  in  marmalade  or  for  a  second- 
quality  jelly.  ■ 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


81 


To  malce  jelly  that  will  not  cryitallize  (candy)  the  right  propor- 
tion of  sugar  roust  be  added  to  the  fruit  juice.  IF  the  fruit  contains  a 
high  percentage  of  sugar,  the  quantity  of  added  sugar  should  be  a 
little  less  than  the  quantity  of  fruit  juice.  That  is  to  say,  in  a  season 
■when  there  has  been  a  great  deal  of  heat  and  sunshine  there  will  be 
more  sugar  in  the  fruit  than  in  a  cold,  wet  season;  consequently,  I 
pint  of  currant  juice  will  require  but  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  sugar. 
But  in  a  cold,  wet  season  the  pint  of  sugar  for  the  pint  of  juice 
must  be  measured  generously. 

Another  cause  of  the  jelly  crystallizing  is  hard  boiling.  When  the 
lyrup  boils  so  rapidly  that  particles  of  it  are  thrown  on  the  upper 
part  of  the  sides  of  the  preserving  kettle  they  often  form  crystals. 
If  these  crystals  are  stirred  into  the  syrup  ihcy  are  apt  lo  cause  the 
mass  to  crystallize  in  time. 

The  use  of  the  syrup  gauge  and  care  not  to  boil  the  syvup  too  vio- 
lently would  do  away  with  all  uncertainty  in  jelly  making.  The 
syrup  gauge  should  register  25",  no  matter  what  kind  of  fruit  is  used. 

Jellies  should  be  covered  closely  and  kept  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

The  simplest  method  of  making  currant  jelly  is  perhaps  the  follow- 
ing: Free  the  currants  from  leaves  and  targe  stems.  Put  them  in  the 
preserving  kettle;  crush  a  few  with  a  wooden  vegetable  masher  or 
tpoon;   heat  slowly,  stirring  frequently. 

When  the  currants  are  hot,  crush  them  with  the  vegetable  masher. 
Put  a  hair  sieve  or  strainer  over  a  large  bowl;  over  this  spread  a 
double  square  of  cheese  cloth.  Turn  the  crushed  fruit  and  juice  into 
the  cheese  cloth,  and  let  it  drain  as  long  as  it  drips,  but  do  not  use 
pressure.  To  hasten  the  process  lake  the  corners  of  the  straining 
cloth  firmly  in  the  hands  and  lift  from  the  sieve;  move  the  contents 
by  raising  one  side  of  the  cloth  and  then  the  other.  After  this  put 
the  cloth  over  another  bowl.  Twist  the  ends  together  and  press  out 
as  much  juice  as  possible.  This  juice  may  be  used  lo  make  a  second 
quality  of  jelly. 

The  clear  juice  may  be  made  into  jelly  at  once,  or  it  may  be 
strained  through  a  flannel  bag.  In  any  case,  the  method  of  making 
'he  jelly  is  the  same. 

Measure  the  juice,  and  put  it  in  a  clean  preserving  kettle.  For 
every  pint  of  juice  add  a  pint  of  granulated  sugar. 

Stir  until  ihe  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  place  over  ihe  ^'re;  watch 
closely,  and  when  it  boils  up  dr.:iw  it  back  and  skim;  put  over  .I:-  fire 
again,  and  boil  and  skim  once  more;  boil  and  skim  a  third  time;  then 
pour  into  hot  glasses  taken  from  the  pan  of  water  on  the  stove  and 
tet  on  a  board.  Place  the  board  near  a  sunny  window  in  a  room 
where  there  is  no  dust.  It  is  a  great  protection  and  advantage  lo  have 
sheets  of  glass  to  lay  on  top  of  the  tumblers.  As  soon  as  the  jelly  is 
set  cover  by  one  of  the  three  methods  given. 

To  make  a  very  transparent  jelly,  heat,  crush,  and  strain  the 
currants  as  directed  in  the  simplest  process.  Put  the  strained  juice  in 
the  flannel  bag  and  let  it  drain  through.  Measure  the  juice  and 
sugar,  pint  for  pint,  and  fmish  as  directed  above. 

To  make  currant  jelly  by  the  cold  process  follow  the  first  rule  for 
jelly  as  far  as  dissolving  the  sugar  in  the  strained  juice.  Fill  warm, 
sterilized  glasses  with  this.  Place  the  glasses  on  a  board  and  put  the 
board  by  a  sunny  window.  Cover  with  sheets  of  glass  and  keep  by 
the  window  until  the  jelly  is  set.  The  jelly  will  be  more  transparent 
if^  the  juice  is  strained  through  the  flannel  bag.  Jelly  made  by 
the  cold  process  Is  more  delicate  than  thai  made  by  boiling,  but  it  does 
not  keep  quite  so  well. 

RASPBERRY   AND   CURRANT  JELLY. 

Make  the  same  as  currant  jelly,  using  half  currants  and  half 
raspberries. 

RASPBERRY  JELLY. 

Make  the  came  as  currant  jelly. 

BLACKBERRY  JELLY. 

Make  the  same  as  currant  jelly. 

STRAWBERRY  JELLY. 

To  10  quarts  of  strawberries  add  2  quarts  of  currants  and  proceed 
as  for  currant  jelly,  but  boil  fifteen  minute*.       .  ^ 


RIPE-GRAPE  JELLY. 

An  acid  grape  is  best  for  this  jelly.  The  sweet,  ripe  grapes  con- 
tain too  much  sugar.  Half-ripe  fruit,  or  equal  portions  of  nearly 
ripe  and  green  grapes,  will  also  be  found  satisfactory.  Wild  grapes 
make  delicious  jelly.    Make  the  same  as  currant  jelly. 

GREEN-GRAPE  JELLY. 

Make  the  same  as  apple  jelly. 

PLUM  JELLY. 

Use  an  underripe  acid  plum.     Wash  the  fruit  and  remove  lh» 
stems.    Put  into  the  preserving  kettle  with  I  quart  of  water  for  each 
peck  of  fruit.     Cook  gsntly  until  the  plums  are  boiled  to  pieces, 
j  Strain  the  juice  and  proceed  the  same  as  for  currant  jelly. 

APPLE  JELLY. 

Wash,  stem,  and  wipe  the  apples,  being  careful  to  clean  the  blos- 
som end  thoroughly.  Cut  into  quarters  and  put  into  the  preserving 
kettle.  Barely  cover  with  cold  water  (about  4  quarts  of  water  to  8 
of  apples)  and  cook  gently  until  the  apples  are  soft  and  clear. 
Strain  the  juice  and  proceed  as  for  currant  jelly.  There  should  be 
but  3  quarts  of  juice  from  8  quarts  of  apples  and  4  of  water. 

Apples  vary  in  the  percentage  of  sugar  and  acid  they  contain.  A 
fine-flavored  acid  apple  should  be  employed  when  possible.  Apple 
jelly  may  be  made  at  any  time  of  the  year,  but  winter  apples  are  best 
and  should  be  used  when  in  their  prime,  i.  e.,  from  the  fall  to  Decem- 
ber or  January.  When  it  is  found  necessary  to  make  apple  jelly  in 
spring,  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  every  pint  of  apple  juice. 

CIDER  APPLE  JELLY. 

Make  the  same  as  plain  apple  jelly,  but  covering  the  apples  with 
cider  instead  of  water.    The  cider  must  be  fresh  from  the  press. 

CRABAPPLE  JELLY. 

Make  the  same  as  plain  apple  jelly. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

Rub  the  quinces  with  a  coarse  crash  towel;  cut  out  the  blossom  end. 
Wash  the  fruit  and  pare  it  and  cut  in  quarters.  Cut  out  the  cores, 
putting  them  in  a  dish  by  themselves.  Have  a  large  bowl  half  full 
of  water;  drop  the  perfect  pieces  of  fruit  into  this  bowl.  Put  the 
parings  and  imperfect  parts,  cut  very  fine,  into  the  preserving  kettle. 
Add  a  quart  of  water  to  every  2  quarts  of  fruit  and  parings.  Put  on 
the  fire  and  cook  gently  for  two  hours.  Strain  and  finish  the  same  as 
apple  jelly.    The  perfect  fruit  may  be  preserved  or  canned. 

To  make  quince  jelly  of  a  second  quality,  when  the  parings  and 
fruit  are  put  on  to  cook  put  the  cores  into  another  kettle  and  cover 
them  generously  with  water  and  cook  two  hours.  After  all  the  juice 
has  been  drained  from  the  parings  and  fruit,  put  what  retnains  into 
the  preserving  kettle  with  the  cores.  Mix  well  and  turn  into  the 
straining  cloth.  Press  all  the  juice  possible  from  this  mixture.  Put 
the  juice  in  the  preserving  kettle  with  a  pint  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of 
juice;    boil  ten  minutes. 

WILD  FRUITS  FOR  JELLIES. 

Wild  raspberries,  blackberries,  barberries,  grapes,  and  beach  plums 
all  make  delicious  jellies.  The  frequent  failures  in  making  barberry 
jelly  come  from  the  fruit  not  being  fresh  or  from  being  overripe. 

PREPARATION  OF  THE  GLASSES  FOR  JELLY. 

Sterilize  the  glasses;  take  from  the  boiling  water  and  set  them 
in  a  shallow  bakiny  pan  in  which  there  is  about  2  inches  of  boiling 
water. 

COVERING  JELLIES. 

Jellies  are  so  rich  in  sugar  that  they  are  protected  from  bacteria 
and  yeasts,  but  they  must  be  cov.ered  carefully  to  protect  them  from 
mold  spores  and  evaporation.  1  he  following  methods  of  covering 
jellies  are  all  good: 

Have  disks  of  thick  white  paper  the  size  of  the  top  of  the  glass. 
When  the  jelly  is  set,  brush  the  top  over  with  brandy  or  alcohol. 
Dip  a  disk  of  paper  in  the  spirits  and  put  it  on  the  jelly.  If  the 
glasses  have  covers,  put  them  on.  If  there  are  no  covers,  cut  disks 
of  paper  about  half  an  inch  in  diameter  larger  than  the  top  of  the 
glass.  Beat  together  the  while  of  one  egg  and  a  tablerpoonful  of 
cold  water.  Wet  the  paper  covers  with  this  mixture  and  put  over  the 
glass,  pressing  down  the  sides  well  to  make  them  stick  lo  the  glass;  or 
the  covers  may  be  dipped  in  olive  oil  and  be  tied  on  the  glasses,  but 
they  must  be  cut  a  little  larger  than  when  the  white  of  egg  is  used. 

A  thick  coating  of  paraffin  makes  a  good  cover,  but  not  quite  so 
safe  as  the  paper  dipped  in  brandy  or  alcohol,  because  the  spirit* 
destroy  any  mold  spores  that  may  happen  lo  rest  in  the  jelly.  If  such 
spores  arc  covered  with  the  paraffin  they  may  develop  under  il 


82 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


However,  the  paper  wet  with  spirits  could  be  put  on  first  and  the 
paraffin    poured    over  it. 

If  paraffin  is  used,  break  it  into  pieces  and  put  in  a  cup.  Set  the 
cup  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  on  the  back  of  the  stove.  In  a  few 
moments  it  will  be  melted  enough  to  cover  the  jelly.  Have  the  coat- 
ing about  a  fourth  of  an  inch  thick.  In  cooling  the  paraffin  contracts, 
»nd  if  the  layer  is  very  thin  it  will  crack  and  leave  a  portion  of  the 
jelly  exposed. 

CANNED  OR  BOTTLED  FRUIT  JUICES. 

Fruit  juice  is  most  desirable  for  drinking  or  for  culinary  purposes. 
Grape  juice  is  particularly  good  as  a  drink.  It  may  be  canned  with 
or  without  sugar  but,  except  where  the  grapes  have  a  large  percent- 
age of  sugar,  as  is  the  case  in  California,  some  sugar  should  be  added 
to  the  juice  in  canning. 

Currant  juice  may  be  sterilized  and  canned  without  sugar.  This 
juice  may  be  made  into  jelly  at  any  season  of  the  year. 

Fruit  juices  that  are  designed  for  use  in  frozen  creams  and  water 
ices  should  be  canned  with  a  generous  amount  of  sugar. 

For  grape  juice  good  bottles  are  to  be  preferred  to  fruit  cans.  If 
you  can  gel  the  self-sealing  bottles,  such  as  pop  or  beer  comes  in, 
the  work  of  putting  up  grape  juice  will  be  light.  If  bottles  are 
employed,  be  very  careful  to  sterilize  both  bottles  and  corks. 

GRAPE  JUICE. 

Wash  the  grapes  and  pick  from  the  stems.  Put  the  fruit  in  the 
preserving  kettle  and  crush  slightly.  Heat  slowly  and  boil  gently 
for  half  an  hour.    Crush  the  fruit  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

Put  a  sieve  or  colander  over  a  large  bowl  and  spread  a  square  of 
cheese  cloth  over  the  sieve.  Turn  the  fruit  and  juice  into  the 
cheese  clolh;  drain  well,  then  draw  the  edges  of  the  cheese  cloth 
together  and  twist  hard  to  press  out  all  the  juice  possible. 

Put  the  strained  juice  in  a  clean  preserving  kettle  and  on  the  fire. 
When  it  boils  up,  draw  back  and  skim.  Let  it  boil  up  again  and 
skim;  then  add  the  sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Boil  five  minutes, 
skimming  carefully.  Fill  hoi  sterilized  jars  or  bottles.  Put  the  jars 
or  bottles  in  a  moderate  oven  for  ten  minutes,  in  pans  of  boiling 
water.  Have  some  boiling  juice  and  pour  a  litle  of  il  into  the  jars 
as  they  are  taken  from  the  oven;  then  seal.  Place  on  boards  and 
set  aside  out  of  a  cold  draft. 


A  good  proportion  of  sugar  and  juice  is  1  gill  of  sugrr  to  a  quart 
of  juice.  The  preparation  and  use  of  grape  juice  ha*  been  discussed 
at  length  in  an  earlier  bulletin  of  this  series.* 

RASPBERRY,   BLACKBERRY,   STRAWBERRY,  AND 

CURRANT  JUICES. 

With  all  these  fruits  except  currants,  proceed  the  same  as  for  grape 
juice,  but  adding  half  a  pint  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  juice.  Cur- 
rants will  require  I  pint  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  juice. 

CHERRY.  PLUM,  AND  PEACH  JUICES. 

To  preserve  the  juice  of  cherries,  plums,  peaches,  and  similar 
fruits,  proceed  as  for  jelly,  but  adding  to  each  quart  of  juice  half  a 
pint  of  sugar  instead  of  a  quart  as  (or  jelly.  If  it  is  not  desired  to 
have  the  fruit  juice  transparent,  the  pulp  of  the  fruit  may  be  pressed 
to  extract  all  the  liquid. 

FRUIT  SYRUPS. 

The  only  difference  between  syrups  and  juice  is  that  !n  the  syrup 
there  must  be  at  least  half  as  much  sugar  as  fruit  juice. 

These  syrups  are  used  for  flavoring  ice  creams  and  water  ices. 
They  also  make  a  delicious  drink,  when  two  or  three  spoonfuls  are 
added  to  a  glass  of  ice  water. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

Put  4  quarts  of  raspberries  in  a  bowl  and  pour  over  them  2  quarts 
of  vinegar.  Cover  and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  two  days.  On  the  sec- 
ond day  strain  the  vinegar  through  cheese  clolh.  Put  4  quarts  of 
fresh  raspberries  in  the  bowl  and  pour  over  them  the  vinegar  strained 
from  the  first  raspberries.  Put  in  a  cool  place  for  two  days,  then 
strain.  Put  the  strained  juice  in  a  preserving  kettle  with  3  quarts 
of  sugar.  Heat  slowly,  and  when  the  vinegar  boils  skim  carefully. 
Boil  twenty  minutes,  then  pul  in  sterilized  bottles. 

About  2  lablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  to  a  glass  of  water  makes  • 
refreshing  drink. 

Similar  vinegars  may  be  made  from  blackberries  and  atrawberriet. 

•U.  S.  Dept.  AgT.I  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  175. 


I 

LinM  ^^^^^  Mf  T  K 
lUll  CONDENSED  niL/li 

Tell  Your  Friends  How  Good  It 
Is  and  Ask  Them  to  Visit 
Our  Premium  Stores 


GOVERNMENT  COOK  BOOK 


83 


Recipes  for 


Famous 


Cocoa  and  Chocolate 

If  You  Want  the  Best  Cup  of  Cocoa — Use  Huyler's. 

For  each  breakfast  cup  take  one  teaspoonful  of  Huyler's 
Cocoa;  mix  this  with  boiling  water  or  milk,  adding  the  latter  grad- 
ually and  stirring  thoroughly  to  form  a  smooth  paste;  to  this  paste 
more  water  or  milk  is  then  added  until  the  desired  richness  is  ob- 
tained; then  let  it  boil  at  least  one  minute  (as  boiling  improves  it)* 
Add  sugar  at  the  table  to  suit  the  taste. 


^    If  Ycu  Want  the  Best 

(Recipes  taken  by  'permission 

How  to  Melt  Chocolate. 

Break  the  chocolate  into  pieces  and 
put  them  into  a  dry  pan  on  the  stove 
where  the  heat  is  moderate.  The  choc- 
olate melts  quickly  and  must  be  care- 
fully watched  or  it  will  burn.  Add  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  milk  to  melted  choco- 
late to  dissolve  it  before  adding  it  to 
custards. 

Chocolate  Sauce. 

Put  a  half  cupful  each  of  sugar  and 
water  in  a  saucepan  and  let  boil  five 
minutes.  Let  the  syrup  cool,  then  stir 
it  slowly  into  four  ounces  (squares) 
of  Huyler's  Baking  (Blue  Wrapper) 
Chocolate  melted;  add  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.  Let  it  stand  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  until  ready  to  serve; 
then  add  one-half  cupful  of  cream  or 
milk.  This  sauce  should  be  smooth 
and  of  the  consistency  of  heavy  cream. 
If  it  is  to  be  used  as  a  sauce  for  ice 
cream,  omit  the  cream  or  milk,  and 
make  it  of  the  right  consistency  with 
water  instead. 

I  Chocolate  Filling. 

Melt  four  ounces  (squares)  of  Huy- 
ler's Baking  (Blue  Wrapper)  Choco- 
late. Dilute  it  with  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  milk  and  then  add  a  cupful  of 
sugar  mixed  with  a  well  beaten  egg; 
stir  until  thickened. 


Chocolate — Use  Huyler's. 

from  The  Century  Cook  Book) 

Chocolate  Icing. 

Melt  in  a  dry  pan  four  ounces 
(squares)  of  Huyler's  Baking  (Blue 
Wrapper)  Chocolate,  or  the  same 
quantity  of  Huyler's  Cocoa.  Boil  one 
and  three-quarter  cupfuls  of  sugar 
with  a  cupful  of  water  until  it 
"threads"  when  dropped  from  the 
spoon.  Turn  it  slowly  upon  the  melted 
chocolate,  stirring  all  the  time.  Use 
this  icing  for  dipping  eclairs  and  small 
cakes  and  for  layer  cakes.  ^  , 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. 

Beat  three  whole  eggs  and  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar  together;  stir  one  quart 
of  scalded  milk  into  them  slowly;  re- 
place on  fire  in  a  double  boiler  and 
stir  constantly  until  the  custard  coats 
the  spoon.  Do  not  let  it  boil  or  it 
will  curdle.  Melt  four  ounces  (squares) 
of  Huyler's  Baking  (Blue  Wrapper) 
Chocolate,  and  dilute  it  with  a  very 
little  milk  or  custard  to  make  it 
smooth,  then  adding  it  to  the  cus- 
tard while  the  latter  is  hot.  Beat  the 
custard  a  little  while  after  taking  it 
off  the  stove;  when  it  is  cold  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  vanilla  and  freeze. 
Cream  (even  a  few  spoonfuls)  will  im- 
prove this  mixture.  More  eggs  also 
will  give  richer  ice  cream. 


84 


"  GOVERNMENT    COOK  BOOK 


is  good  not  only  for  breakfast,  but  for  any  meal,  and  it  is 
also  delicious  between  meals.  Serve  it  to  your  family 
instead  of  cotfee  and  tea — it  is  much  more  healthful. 
Not  only  will  they  like  it,  but  IT  will  like  them.  It  is 
the  sort  of  nourishing,  satisfying  drink  that  makes  good, 
red  blood  and  builds  you  up  generally.  Huyler's  Break- 
fast Cocoa  is  as  dilf erent  from  ordinary  cocoas  as  Huy- 
ler's  Bonbons  and  Chocolates  are  better  than  ordinary 
candy.  Its  unusual  flavor  is  due  to  expert  blending  of 
the  best  cocoa  beans — selected  and  blended  with  the  same 
care  as  that  which  insures  the  deliciousness  of  all  Huyler 
products. 


for  cooking  and  baking.  It  is  the  smooth,  rich,  full- 
tlavored  chocolate  that  puts  irresistible  goodness  into 
cakes,  puddings,  icings,  sauces,  etc.  The  same  delicious 
chocolate  has  made  Huyler's  Bonbons  and  Chocolates 
famous  the  world  over  because  of  their  unusual  flavor 
and  quality. 

'Ask  your  grocer  for  Huyler's  Blue  Wrapper  Choco- 
late with  the  white  band  if  you  want  the  unsweetened 
kind  for  cooking  only.  If  you  want  sweetened  chocolate, 
ask  for  Huy^^ir's  Vanilla  (pink  wrapper)  Chocolate  for 
eating,  drinking  and  cooking.  Be  sure  the  name  Huyler's 
is  on  the  package. 


Sold  by  Dealers  Everywhere 


GOVERNMENT    COOK  BOOK 


85 


0mm  ni^i 


(^AFER,  SU  CEP 


SMOKED  BEEF 


'^W^         fACKED  By 

AldbktE.Hbise 


NATURAL  FLAVOR  4.29  WAV  ERLY  AVE,. 

BEEF  PRODUCT  B  R  OO  K  LYN ,  N  .Y.. 

Tel.  2534  Prospect. 


"This  is  Our  Process' 


Exterminators  of  Rats,  Mice  and  Roaches 

'■'  In   Homes,  Apartments,  Stores  and  Buildings. 

Our  representative  will  call  at  your  request  without  obligating  you  in  any  way. 

309  BROADWAY,  Manhattan  Phone,  Worth  2911 


Wm.  W.  Simpson 

Jf  uneral  director  ant!  Cmbalmer 


229  SUMNER  AVENUE 


Tel.  1128  Bush  wick. 


B/ooklyn,  N.  Y. 


86 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


r 


Phone  7686  Bedford 


ELECTRICAJL.  CONTRACTORS 


LIGHT  AND  POWER  WIRING  AND  REPAIRS 


L 


BURGLAR  ALARMS  AND  ANNUNCIATOR  WORK 

BELL  HANGING  AND  LOCKSMITHING 
WELSBACH  LIGHTS,  MANTLES  AND  SUPPLIES 

401  TOMPKINS  AVENUE 

Bet.  JefiFerson  Ave.  and  Hancock  St.,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


2562  PROSPECT 


Established  1881 


GEORGE  B.  ORR 

Funeral  Director 
19  and  21  PUTNAM  AVE. 

Near  Fulton  Street, 

BROOKLYN  NEW  YORK 


Chapel  for  Services 


Lady  Attendant 


Special  Attention  Paid  to  In  and  Out-of-Town  Calls 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


87 


<^ — <^ 


VA 


4-B  Pi 

p: 


'ABLE  OVEN 


ILEY 


DE 


232  LIVINGSTON  ST, 

Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


88 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOIC 


ROCKWOOD'S 


PURE  GOOD 

C  O  C  O  A 

Gives  Glowing  Health  and  Strength  to  All 

Who  Use  It 


Teleplione,  S031  Bedford  EtEOTRfCTAX  i.VD  f-OCKSMITH 


HARDWARE   AND  HOUSEFURNISHINGS 

Complete  Line  of  Japalac,  Montauk  and  Sapolin  Stains  and  Varnisiies 
WELSBACH  AND  LINDSAY  LIGHTS  AND  MANTLES  j 
780  NOSTRAND  AVENUE 

NBAIi  ST.  JOHN'S  PLACE,  nROOKI.YN,  IV,  V, 

CUTLERY,  TOOLS.    GLAZING  DONE.  GASOUNE,  BENZINE, 

WEATHERSTRIPS  APPLIED  TURPENTLNE 


GOVERNMENT    COOK  BOOK 


89 


THE 

GREATER  NEW  YORK 
SAVINGS  BANK 

498  Fifth  Avenue 

Corner  Twelfth  Street 

Open  dally  (pscept  Sundays  and  legal  hollvlays)  from  3  A.M.  to  4  P.M..  and 
on  MondHV  evening's  from  7  to  !)  n'olocli.    Clos^.s  at  I'J  ^L  Saturdays. 
DKPOSITS  IMCtKlVED  KIKI.^I  *  1  TO  .$a,O0O. 

All  deposits  made  on  or  hetoro  the  leiilli  business  days  of  January  and 
July,  and  the  tliirti  business  d.iys  of  April  and  Octolier,  will  draw  Interest 
from  the  Urst  of  tlicso  luontlis. 

ONE  DOLLAR  WILL  OPEN  m  ACCOUNT 

iTiterent  Is  allou'ed  on  nil  siim.s  from  ?5  to  fS.rtX).  and  Is  credited  to  tiia 
deposUor'a  account  In  Jaiiuajy  and  July  of  eiii^h  year. 


ALBXANDETR  C.  CAT.TIER 
CHAKJLES  O.  BALJUA.N'NO 


CJIAriLiSS  J 

'"'HARL'K^'   Rt'PTON   Couiisellor-at-Law 

W.  J.  M.\X\VELt  U.  S.  InlernaJ  Rev.  Coll. 

W.  F.  V..\Nrii:.N  HOUTEN   Primer 

ALLAN  BOWIE  Driver  &  Bowie,  Real  Estale 

TH(>MA.=;  -MrUPHY   Iteliled 

ALEXANDER  O.  CALDER   liuiidor 

FRA.NK  .\.  SELLE  Chairman  fjth  .\vp.  Brancli  Merhanios  Banlc 

M.   M.   BELDING.  JR  PresidenI  Belding  Bros.  *  Co. 

H.\MILTON  E.  McNAlR   Ileal  Estate 

CHARLES  G.  BALM-AN.VO  Vlce-Pi-esident  "Mechanics  Banlv 

WILLI.-VM  OBER-%L-\VER   .Sccreiaiy 

WALTER  M.  MESEROLE  Civil  Engineer  and  Surveyor 


OKFICKRS 

CHaRIJIS  J.  OBF.RMAYEI?   President 

 1st  \-ieo-President    I  WILLIAM  OHK  RM  .-X  TER   BscrwTary 

 2d  Vice-President   J  CHARLES  RUSTON   Counsel 

no  Aim  OF  TRUSTKIiS 

OBER.MAYER   President 

ADOLPH  RIOIiBFIN   Real  K.'Staio 

'W.\LTEU  ClirrcHLEY  Treasurer  of  Cowperthwait  Co. 

JOHN  LAMO.V'l'   Importer 

ARCHtBALD  SIMPSON   Real  Estate 

CL'ST.-WE  H.^RTLNG  Furniture  and  Carpets 

JOHN  E.  RUSTON   Counsellor-at-Law 

I'REDEi^ICK  W.  .'^TAPR   Lumber 

WILLI. >,M  W.  SPE.N-CE   Builder 

Ll'DWIG  MERKLl'.'IN   Germania  Xii».  Co. 

WILLI.VM  L.  DOWI.I.NG   Builder 

FREDERiriC  G.  LEE  Pres.  Broadway  Trust  Co. 

GUY  LOOM  IS  John  S.  Loomls  Co.,  Lumber 


VACUUM  CLEANER  IN  THE  HOUSE  IS  ANECESSIT^^ 
A  LUXURY.  EVERY  HOUSEHOLD  SHOULD  HAVE  ONE.  | 


We  have  the  simplest, 
most  economical  and  effi- 
cient Cleaner  on  the  mar- 
ket today. 

One  that  will  do  work 
that  no  other  machine  can 
do. 

Before  investing  in  hand 
or  electrical  machines 
which  may  prove  a  disap- 
pointment, examine  into 
the  merits  of  our  machine. 

THE  PURIFIER 

A  Stationary,  Gas  Oper- 
ated Machine. 

Can  be  installed  in  the 
cellar  of  any  house  or 
ottice  building. 

Safe,  Simple  and  Sanitary. 

No  moving  parts  to  get 
out  of  order. 


VACU 


CHIMNEY 


Gathers  all  the  coai-se 
dirt  in  receiver  in  cellar. 

Easily  operated. 

Once  started  runs  Itself. 

Burns  the  fine  dust  and 
microbes. 

Removes  the  foul  air  as 
well  as  dirt  from  room. 

Cleans  by  suction  from 
underneath  carpets — not 
by  blowing  air  over  sur- 

STEAM     fa  PA 
CAUSE 

Cost  S125 

Call  on  us  and  let  us  show  you 
what,  it  will  do  for  you.  Descrip- 
ti%'e  booklet  on  application. 

Sanitary  Vacuum 
Cleaner  &  Power  Co. 

207  Fulton  Slreel 

Cpposite  Pineapple  BROOKlYRi 


90       ^  GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


EASTERN  DISTRICT  BUSINESS  HOUSES 

 —  i 

J^ESPITE  the  best  values  in  food  and  in 
the  cooking  thereof,  the  personal  health 
cannot  be  maintained  in  its  highest  degree 
without  good  teeth. 

''Without  good  teeth  there  cannot  be  thorough — 
MASTICATION. 

''Without  thorough  mastication  there  cannot  be  perfect — • 

DIGESTION. 
''Without  perfect  digestion  there  cannot  be  proper — 

ASSIMILATION. 
''Without  proper  assimilation  there  cannot  be — 

NUTRITION. 
"Without  nutrition  there  cannot  be— 

HEALTH. 
''Without  health,  what  is — 

LIFE? 

"Hence  the  paramount  importance  of  the  teeth." 

— "M.  W.  J.,"  in  Southern  Dental  Journal. 

A  Personal  Talk  and  Examination  by 

GEO.  E.  TRAVIS,  D.D.S. 

Will  Prove  Most  Valuable. 

Painless  DcnlisfFy  in  All  Its  Branches 

OFFICE  HOURS: 

8  A.  M.  to  8  P.  M. 

SUNDAYS  AND  HOLIDAYS: 

9  A.  M.  to  4  P.  M. 


696  GRAND  STREET, 

Telephone  1837  Williamsburg. 
BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


9f 


EASTERN  DISTRICT  BUSINESS  HOUSES. 


HEADQUARTERS  FOR  25  YEARS. 


Shur-on  Eye  Glasses  and 

Spectacle  Mountings 

REMEMBER  THil  NAME. 
Look  Up — Look  Down. 
Look  anyway  you  please  and  our  TORIC  k-ENSES  make  your  vision  better. 

H.  BARNES,  Optometrist 

(Formerly  with  Meyrowitz) 

729  Manhattan  Avenue,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


a  P.  BRUSH  JR.&.BRO. 


\ 


92 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


f 


VICTOR 

Two  Stores 

Good 

Service 


ACHINE8 

Repairs  of  All  Kinds 

of  Phonographs 
&  Talking  Machines 

Done  Well  &  Promptly 


Victor  Horn  Instruments,  $10  to  $100  Victrola  Instruments,  $15  to  $200 

You  can  buy  any  of  the  above  instruments  of  me  just  as  cheaply  as  elsewhere 
and  on  just  as  good  terms.  So  why  not  patronize  a  local  store,  one  that  specializes 
in  his  line. 

Seven  years  experience  in  the  Bedford  district  and  nine  years  personal  experi- 
ence in  marketing  Victor  products  ought  to  be  worth  something  to  you. 

The  conveniences  of  my  stores  offer  you  advantages,  when  troubles  appear,  in 
quick  prompt  repair  service. 

Local  industries  need  local  patronage?   Can  I  not  enroll  you  as  one  of  my  patrons? 

Respectfully  yours, 

B.   GUY  WARNER. 

1213  BEDFORD  AVENUE,  Bet.  Hancock  and  Halsey  Streets.     Phone  7625  Bedford. 
1198  FULTON  STREET,  Near  Bedford  Avenue.   Phone  4480  Bedford. 


Established  1895 


NOTARY  PUBLIC 


.1 


ARNOLD  SCHRAMM 

Undertaker 

and 

Embalmer 

PROMPT,  COURTEOUS  ATTENTION 
DAY  OR  NIGHT 

PROFESSIONAL  LADY  IN  ATTENDANCE 

PRIVATE  AMBULANCES 

COACHES  TO  LET  AT  ALL  HOURS 


1212  FULTON  STREET 

NEAR  BEDFORD  AVE. 

Brooklyn,  New  York 


T  i^^u^^^^  \  6442  Bedford 
Telephones  |  ,979  B.tshwick 


FREE  USE  OF  CHAPEL,  ORGAN  AND 
CHOIP 


GOVERNMENT    COOK  BOOK 


93 


The  Name  Montignani  Is  a  Guarantee  of  Quality 

Montignani's  Kil-Ko  Insecticide 

Kills  Bed  Bugs,  Water  Bugs,  Roaches, 
Carpet  Bugs,  Ants,  Moths,  Etc, 

Absolutely  non-inflammable,  non-explosive  and  stainless.  Guaran- 
teed to  do  the  work  effectually. 


NEW  DISCOVERY 

Montignani's  Roach  Powder 

Vanishes  Water  Bugs,  Roaches, 
Black  Beetles  and  all  Other  Vermin 

They  disappear  like  magic.  One  trial  will  convince  you. 


I 


Montignani's  rm  Furniture  Polish 

HAS  NO  EQUAL 

Why  pay  25c.  and  50c.  per  bottle  for  inferior  polishes  when  you  can  buy  the  best 
in  5  oz.  bottles  at  15c.  and  12  oz.  bottles  at  25c.  per  bottle.  Once  used,  always  used. 

Our  goods  20*6  endorsed  by  the  highest  authorities  on  insecticides,  polishes,  etc. 
If  satisfactory,  kindly  recommend  to  your  friends  and  neighbors. 

AT  ALL  RELIABLE  DEALERS. 

The  Montignani  Specialty  Mfg.  Co. 

Sole  Manufacturers  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 


94 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


NORKA  IMPROVED 

Gas  Heated  Iron 


COMFORT—  ECONOMY 

For  the  Woman  Who  Appreciates  Absolute 
Comfort  on  ironing  day,  in  a  room  free  from  over- 
heated air  and  who  wants  perfect  results,  the 

NORKA  GAS  HEATED  IRON 

is  just  as  essential  as  any  other  labor  or  money 
saving  appliance  that  she  may  use. 

Iron  to  Be  Sold  at 
a  Special  Price  .  • 

Any  Iron  can  be  returned  within  two 
weeks  and  money  will  be  refunded. 


$2.75 


"Gee!  But  It's  Easy" 


Mail  and  phone  orders  accepted.  Irons  de- 
livered free  of  chcirge  anywhere  within  25  miles 
of  New  York. 


Our  Gas  Heated  Iron  is  of  regular  form  and  size,  nickel  plated,  and 
fitted  with  an  improved  gas  burner  the  entire  length  of  the  iron,  uni- 
formly keeping  hot  every  part  of  it  all  the  while  the  iron  is  in  use.-  An 
air  space  between  the  handle  and  the  iron  eliminates  any  heating  of 
the  handle. 

Its  simple  construction  makes  it  possible  for  a  child  to  use  it. 

Cost  of  Operation  Does  Not  Exceed  I  Gent  for  6  Hours 

The  flame  inside  the  iron  prevents  any  dirt  or  moisture  from  af- 
fecting the  surface  of  the  iron. 

LEO  QARAHAN  and  COMPANY 


Phone  Prospect  4316. 


471  VANDERBILT  AVENUE 
^  Near  Fulton  St.,  Brooklyn 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


95 


UNITED  BURIAL  CO.,  Inc. 


FUNERAL  m 


EXTRAS 


fflGHER  PRICED  FUNEkAL  IN  PROPORTION 

Choice  of  black  cloth,  oak  finished,  or  any  color  embossed  Plush  Casket,  all  trimmed  with  fine  satin 
lining,  six  silver  plated  handles,  silver  name  plate,  neatly  engraved,  outside  case  delivered  at  cemetery, 
dress  robe,  hearse,  coach,  embalming  body,  washing,  dressing,  shaving,  drapery,  fur  rug,  door  band, 
pedestals,  camp  chairs  and  interment  permit. 

Finest  Undertaking  Establishments  in  Brooklyn 
USE  OF  FUNERAL  CHAPELS  ARE  ABSOLUTELY  FREE 

The  increasing  demand,  extraordinary  popularity,  unequaled  success  of  the  United  Burial  Company, 
Inc.,  are  due  to  the  following  facts: 

First— Real  merit,  which  has  stood  the  test  for  years. 

Second — Honest  business  methods,  which  has  Inspired  public  confidence.  Our  reputation  is  an  absolute 
protection  to  every  customer. 

1156  BROADWAY,  near  Kosciusko  L  Station. 

Telephone,  4232  Bushwick 

235  FLATBUSH  AVENUE,  near  Bergen  Street 

Telephone,  833  Prospect 
EDWARD  O.  FANNING,  General  Manager.      Open  day  and  nfght     Inspection  invited. 

^   M 


^  Telephone  Bedford  1283  <S>  ' 

DR.  M.  GOODMAN 


VETERINARIAN 


SPECIALIST  IN  THE      llSniffi      DISEASES  OF  DOG  AND  CAT 


DR.  P.  KOHNSTAMM 

SPECIALIST  IN  THE  DISEASES  OF  DOG  AND  CAT 

Formerly  Superintendentof  the  Bide-a-Wee  Home  for  Animals  in  Attendance 

1192  BEDFORD  AVENUE,  Near  Putnam  Ave. 

For  Emergency  Night  Calls  Phone  2036  Bay  Ridge  or  3038  South 


Specialty  of  Dog  and  Cat  Remedies. 


DOG  CLIPPING 


Ow___  _  —AJ 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


Pride  of  the  Kitchen 
5c  Scouring  Soap.  5c 

This  superb  Soap  has  won  its  way  to  favor  in  the  homes  throughout 
the  United  States.  This  is  a  conquest  of  merit.  The  popularity  of  Pride 
of  the  Kitchen  is  constantly  increasing.  It  is  second  to  none.  We  want 
every  housewife  to  use  it.  It  cleans  and  scours  without  injury.  Ask  3'Our 
dealer  for  it.    Price  5  cents. 

P.  K.  SCOURING  POWDER    |    P.  K.  WASHING  POWDER. 

Sifting  Top  Cans.  |    P.  K.  AMMONIA  POWDER. 

Coupons  for  Valuable  Premiums  in  All  Packages. 

Write  for  Premium  List, 


The  Pride  of  the  Kitchen  Co., 

382-392  SMITH  ST.,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


THE  ST.  JOHNS  PORTABLE  BUILDING  COMPANY. 


Designers  and  Manufacturers  of 
Garages,  Bungalows,  Greenhouses,  Pho= 
tograph    Studios,    Chicken  Houses, 
Contractors'    and    Builders'  Houses, 
Paddock  Stables,  Open  Air  Cottages, 
School  Houses  and  Churches. 


Garage— Style  1912. 

HUDSON  TER 

30  Church  Street. 


style  100. 

3-Room  Cottage,  12  ft.  by  24  ft.   Price  $375.00. 

Contractors  and  Builders  of 
PORTABLE  MOUSES,  ' 
SECTIONAL  BUILDINGS  OF 
ALL  KINDS, 
Concrete,  Wood  or  Steel. 

INAL  BUILDING, 

Concourse  Booth  19 


TELEPHONE  CORTLANDT  2180. 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


EDUCATIONAL  EFFICIENCY  THROUGH  SCIENTIFIC  MANAGEMENT 


FOIINDKD  lSO(; 


^iSJiick  Sngtitutc 

SCHOOLS  OF  COMMERCE  AND  LIBERAL  ARTS 

School  of  Commerce — Bookkeeping,  Stenography, 
Typewriting  and  all  Commercia!  Subjects  as  pre= 
scribed  by  Board  of  Regents. 

School  of  Liberal  Arts — Preparation  in  all  Academic 
Subjects   for   College   or   Regents  Examinations- 
Address  the  Director, 
47  Ashland  Place,  Brooklyn,  N,  Y. 

Tel.  499  Mai""  Two  blocks  from  Atlantic  Av.  Subway  Station. 


r? 


GREAT 


/7fs  Purity  Has  Made  It  Famous'' 

Case  of  Six  Large  Glass-Stoppered  Bottles,  50c,  Delivered 

at  Your  Home. 

Evei-y  Bottle  Thoroughly  Washed  and  Sterilized  Before  Being-  Refilled. 
Brooklyn  Warehouse  and  Laboratory, 

36-44  41st  STiEET. 

'         Telephone  4277  Sunset. 


J 


Over  54  years 
the  Standard. 


TRADE 
MARK 


Telephone 
John  3803 


A  SURE  EXTERMINATOR.  When  everything  else  fails  try  "SURE  POP."  Clears  out  and  kills 
rats,  mice,  roaches,  bedbugs  and  all  other  vermin.  Sizes  25c.,  50c.,  $1.00.  Our  SURE  POP  Bedbug 
Liquid  can't  burn;  not  poison.   Sold  by  dealers  or  sent  prepaid  on  receipt  of  price. 

BEWARE  of  worthless  imitations.    No  goods  genuine  unless  marked  "SURE  POP." 

SURE  POP  Breed  TRAILED  FERRETS. 

CONTRACTS  taken  for  extermination  of  rats,  mice,  roaches,  bedbugs,  ants,  fleas,  etc. 

ADOLPH  ISAAOSEN  &  SON,  74  Fulton  St.,  N.  Y.  EST.1S57. 


BROOKLYN  SCHOOL  OF  DESIGNING, 
DRESSMAKING  AND  SKETCHING 

Learn  to  make  your  own  dresses  and  have  some  odd  and  pretty  designs  to 
wear.  Why  wear  the  common,  ready-made  dresses,  while  you  have  an  opportunity 
to  learn  dressmaking  by  our  rapid  system? 

Dress  Cutting  and  Fitting  Taught  in  Three  Lessons — Afternoons  or  Evenings. 

CALL  AND  INVESTIGATE. 

THE  MISSES  GIBBONS 

436  Vanderbilt  Ave.,  Corner  Gates  Ave.;  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


98 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


THE  "HOTAKOLD" 

VACUUM  CARAFE 

A  Vacuum  Bottle  Especially  Designed  for 

HOUSEHOLD  USE 

AND  FOR  SERVICE  IN 

HOTELS,  CLUBS,  HOSPITALS,  ETC. 
It  Will  Keep  Hot  Liquids  Steaming  Hot  for  36  Hours 
It  WHS  Keep  Cold  Liquids  Ice  Cold  for  Four  Days 

This  Carafe  is  Strong  and  Ornamental  and  attracts 
attention  for  its  beauty  even  when  surrounded  by  Cut  Glass 
and  Silverware.  This  Carafe  has  many  uses  in  every  home. 

For  Ice  Water  on  Table  or  Sideboard,  or 

IN  BEDROOM  AT  NIGHT 

Or  as  a  Coffee  Pot  or  Tea  Pot  it  has  no  equal. 

THE  IDEAL  PRESENT— For  Christmas,  Wedding 
or  Birthday.    Appreciated  bv  every  one  desiring  a  beauti- 
ful article  FOR  THE  HOME. 
Three  Sizes — i  Quart — 2  Quarts — 3  Quarts. 

Write  for  circular. 

VACUUM  SPECIALTY  CO., 

First  Ave.  and  36th  St.  (624  First  Ave.),  New  York. 


There  are  often  things  perplexing 
That  are  mean  and  that  are  vexing, 
And  upon  our  other  troubles  will 
encroach, 
But  the  greatest  of  the  bothers, 
And  the  worst  of  all  the  horrors 
Is  that  nasty  little  insect  called 
the  roach. 

There  are  fat  ones,  big,  and  small 
ones, 

There  are  short  ones,  thick  and  tall 
ones. 

And  for  months  they  have  been 
living  in  my  desk; 
They  \vould  crawl  in  every  drawer 
From  the  top  one  to  the  floor, 
And  I  thought  I  would  go  bug- 
house from  this  pest. 

They  would  have  a  celebration 
Every  evening — with  oration 

As  they  met  in  fellow  friendship 
from  their  camps. 


WILL  KEEPVOUn  HOME  FREE  FROM 


ANTS,  WATERBUGS,  ETC. 

LANOC  Box,  50c.  Medium  Box,  25c. 

Small  Box,  iOc. 


BARRETT  CHEMICAL  CO. 
9  NORTH  Moore  Street,  N.y. 

Dealers  Everywhere. 


Then  they'd  talk  of  that  great  ques 
tion — (eating) 

And  they'd  b'ess  their  own  diges- 
tion, 

As  they   licked   the  "gum-ju-oc- 
cum"  off  my  stamps. 

But  last  week,  a  good  friend  told  me 
That  these  bugs  so  blamed  unholy, 
Would  depart  or  else  It  would 
not  be  my  fault, 
If  I  would  spend  one  little  dime 
I  could  be  happy  all  the  time, 
And  so  I  bought  a  can  of  Bar- 
rett's ROACHSAULT. 

It  had  no  unpleasant  odor 
And  I  sprinkled  it  all  over 
Every  drawer  and  little  crevice  1 

could  find. 
Right  away  the  bugs  departed, 
'Twas    ROACHSAULT    that  got 

them  started — 
So  now  I  recommend  it  all  the 


time. 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


99 


Combination  Coal  and  Gas 

(PATENTED) 


The  Most  Perfect  Construction  for  the 

Model  Kitchen  of  Today. 
A  Complete  Gas  Range  on  Top  of  a 
Coa!  Range. 
Solid  Iron  Pipe  Connections. 
No  Rubber  Tubing  Used. 

MANUFACTURED  BY 

THE  UNION  STOVE 
WORKS 

Mfrs.  Stoves,  Ranges,  Furnaces,  Gas  Ranges,  Etc. 
70  Beekman  and  66-68  Gold  St.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 


FOR  SALE 


This  beautiful  2J4  story  detached  home,  14 
rooms  and  2  baths,  steam  heat,  electric  light — 
in  fact,  every  modern  improvement.  Plot  60x 
100.  Price,  $14,000.  Cash  required,  $3,500. 
Also  a  pretty  garden  plot,  60x100,  adjoining. 
Price  $3,600,  making  total  plot  120x100.  The 
parcels  can  be  bought  separately  or  together. 
For  detailed  particulars  apply  to 

McKenzie  &  Bell,  Inc. 

16  COURT  ST.,  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 

Telephone  MAIN  4497. 
REAL  ESTATE  (All  Branches) 
INSURANCE  (Every  Kind) 

RENTING  AND  COLLECTING 
ESTATES  MANAGED 
MORTGAGE  LOANS 
COAL  AND  WOOD 


Location,  Bay  Ridge,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 
Convenient  to  All  Lines  of  Transit. 


TO  LET — Furnished  or  unfurnished,  Houses,  Parts  of  Houses,  Apartments,  Bachelor  Apartments, 
Floors;  also  Rooms,  furnished  or  unfurnished,  whh  or  without  board. 

WE  OFFER  FOR  SALE  Hotels,  Boarding  and  Rooming  Houses  (furnishings  and  good  will),  city  or 

country.  -     >  — — ^  


WE  HAVE  WHAT  YOU  WANT. 


100 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


Peterman's  Roach  Food  kills 

roaches,  water  bugs  and  beetles. 
Standard  for  26  years. 

Petermao's  Discovery  kills  bed 

bugs  and  their  eggs.  A  sure  pre- 
ventive. 

Peterman's  Moth  Food-^odor- 

ks3--Kills  Moths.   A  sure  preventive 

Peterman's  Ant  Food  kills  ants 

and  fleas. 

At  all  Dealers.    Insist  on  Peterman^s 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


101 


Flatbosh  Riding  Academy 


GEO.  R  WILLERS 


Telephone  1461  Flatbush- 


Corner  Oce» 

and 


Willink  Entrance,  Prospect  Park 


Inspection 

Respectfully 


Invited"     Circulars  Mailed  on  Application 


r 


RTAK 


1 
J 


SS/  J^latbush  ^venue^ 

BROOKLYN,  N.  Y.       Phone  174  Flatbush 


Residence:  92  Woodruff  Avenue 

Phone  5091  Flatbush 


102  ^ 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


onarch  Cleaner  and  Renovator 

Guaranteed  for  Ten  Years 

In  Open  Competition  With  Every  Known  Make  of  Vacuum 

Cleaner. 

Has  Been  Adopted  by  All  Prominent  Engineers  and 


The  White  House. 

The  United  States  Navy. 

The  United  States  Senate. 

The  United  States  Congress. 

The  United  States  Lighthouse 
Service. 

The  United  States  Marine 
Hospital  Service. 

The  New  York  Police  De- 
partment. 

Good  Housekeeping  Institute. 

New  York  Edison  Light  Co. 


Brooklyn  Edison  Light  Co. 

Philadelphia  General  Elec- 
tric Co. 

Potomac  Electric  Power  Co., 
Washington,  D.  C. 

Westchester  Edison  Light- 
ing Co. 

New  Haven  Edison  Lighting 
Co. 

Portland  General  Electric  Co. 
Masonic    Hall    and  Grand 
Lodge  Masons,  N.  Y.  City. 


THE  MUNICIPALITIES  OF  51  CITIES 

318  CHURCHES  251  CLUBS 

197  THEATERS  418  HOTELS 

AND  THOUSANDS  OF  HOMES 


ARC 

N 
E 


r 


as  being  superior  fn  construction,  effi- 
ciency and  in  every  particular  and 
detail  to  any  machine  made. 

We  are  selling  four  Monarchs  to  any 
one  cleaner  of  any  other  make,  based 
wholly  upon  the  Monarch's  scientific 
construction,  its  great  efficiency,  light- 
ness, noiselessness,  absence  of  vibration,  strength,  moderate  price  and  10- 
year  guarantee,  making  it  absolutely  the  only  cleaner  in  existence  that  will 
absorb  all  the  dust,  dirt  and  germs,  and  renovate  thoroughly,  without  injury 
to  any  material. 

]  $75  for  the  Gun  Metal  Finish 
PRICES:  [  $80.00  for  the  Black  or  Silver  Nickel  Finish. 

J  With  All  Equipments— No  Extras. 


%. 

The  Monarch  "Junior"  Vacuum  Cleaner 

GUARANTEED  FOR  THREE  YEARS. 

A    MARVEL    OF    PERFECTION!       THE    WONDER    OF  WONDERS! 
Not   a   Carpet   Sweeper   Masquerading    under   the    Name    of  Vac?uum 
Cleaner,   but   a  Genuine    Hand    Vacuum  Cleaner. 

The  only  HancJ  Vacuum  Cleaner  worthy  of  the  name.  Embodies  five  absolutelj'  newly  in- 
vented methods,  perfected  after  three  years  of  assiduous  application,  by  the  expert  of  the 
Monarch  Specialty  Manufacturing  Company. 

7?i  inches  of  vacuum,  33,000  cubic  inches  of  air  ai.splaced  per  minute  through  a  carpet 
tool  sweep  11  inches  %vide,  propelled  at  an  ordinary  walk  by  traction  principle.  Overcomes 
all  the  vital  defects  in  other  hand  cleaners.  A  one-person  Hand  Vacuum  Cleaner.  Strong  and 
absolutely  fool-proof.  So  simple  a  child  can  handle  It.  Made  of  the  highest  quality  of  ma- 
terials.   Fully  protected  by  patents. 

Equal  to  and  better  than  many  electric  pump  machines  now  being 
sold  at  from  $90  to  $135. 

PRICE,  TWENTY-FIVE  DOLLARS  COMPLETE,  with  all  attach- 
ments included,  consisting  of  11-inch  carpet  nozzle,  fore  wheels  attach- 
ment, 7  ft.  of  hose,  curved  bow  sweep  stick,  11 -inch  hardwood  floor 
sweep,  tufter  end  to  hose,  5-inch  upholstery  nozzle  and  wall,  tapestry 
and  ceiling  brush;  all  completely  tested  and  guaranteed  for  three  years. 

For  sale  by  all  first-class  dealers  and  depart- 
ment stores  who  are  content  with  an  honest 
margin  of  profit  for  an  honest  article. 


Monarch  "Junior" 


Monarch  Vacuum  Cleaner  Company 

Headquarters — 1151  Broadway,  Bet.  26th  &  27th  Sts.,  N.  Y.  City.    'Phones  8760,  8761  Madison  Square. 

Frederick  Loeser  &  Co.,  Brooklyn  Distributors 


PHONE   FOR   A   FREE   HOME  DEMONSTRATION 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


103 


Why 

Because 
You 
Can 
Get 


Is  Nos.  41  and  43  l  A 

Vcsey  SJ.,  New  York  [  Groceries  arc  Spoken  oi  o 

The  Best 


Teas,  Coffees,  Butter,  Cheese, 
Canned  Vegetables  and  Fmittj; 
the  Freshest  Eggs  and  the  Finest  03  iVE  OIL 
in  FULL  MiiASUME  BOTTLES  AND  TINS. 


Absolutely  Pure  Wines  and  Liquors  and  a  Choice 
Assortment  of  Cigars,  and  the  Largest  Assortment 
of  Superior  Groceries  in  the  Cily  to  select  tr^m. 


Imporler  of  "  VINUM  EX  V!TE  "  Altar  Wine 

Made  according  to  the  rules  of  the  "Holy  Congregation  of  Rites"  at  Rome.  The  certificate 
of  the  Vicar  General  of  Tarragona,  attesting  to  its  purity,  is  on  file  in  my  office.  I  am  agent 
for  the  "Guillon"  8  and  4  day  Tapers  and  Candles,  Perfumed  Charcoal  and  Incense,  Easter  or 
Paschal  Stearic  and  Beeswax  Candles. 

Imported  and  Domestle  WMfe  Caslile  Snap 


cool. 


Full  Quart, 
32  oz. 


Absolutely  Pure  Virgin  Olive  Oil 

I  have  received  from  the  firm  of  Plagniol  de  James  of  France  the  sixth  consignment 
of  Pure  Virgin  Olive  Oil  under  my  "Eclipse  Brand."  It  is  put  up  in  a  different  shaped 
bottle  .from  the  old  style.  Each  bottle  has  my  name  blown  into  the  glass.  The  so- 
lalled  Quart  bottles  of  the  old  style  contain  only  18  ounces  of  Oil;  my  bottles  contain  a 
iu!l  quart  of  32  ounces.  The  old-fashioned  Pints  contain  9  ounces,  vchile  my  bottles 
contain  16;  the  old-fashioned  Half  Pints  contain  about  4^/2 
ounces  of  Oil,  while  my  bottles  contain  8  ounces,  or  nearly 
double  the  quantity.  The  price  is  very  little  higher,  but  the  qual- 
ity is  absolutely  pure,  being  the  first  pressing  of  the  Olive. 

The  purity  of  the  Oil  is  attested  by  the  Bu- 
reau of  Chemistry  of  the  Department  of  Agri- 
culture, Washington,  D.  C. 

I  prepay  freight  charges  on  all  orders  within 
one  hundred  miles  of   New  York. 

I  have  sold  this  OLIVE  OIL  for  years.  No 
complaints  from  customers,  and  its  sales  have 
increased  each  succeeding  year.  My  customers' 
confidence  strengthened  my  own  and  induced 
me  to  call  this  Oil  the  "ECLIPSE"  BRAND. 
You  can't  forget  the  name  and  you  can't  forget 
that  you  get  full  quarts,  pints  and  half  pints 
of  the  Purest  and  Best  Olive  Oil  obtainable. 
The  great  FOOD  VALUE  of  OLIVE  OIL  is 
universally  recognized  by  physicians  and  most 
well-informed  people. 

Remember  that  PURE  OLIVE 
OIL  is  a  Tonic,  Reco  structor 
and  A  FLESH  BUILDER  for 
MAN,  WOMAN  and  CHILD. 


Full  Pint, 
i(t  or,. 


Full   %  Pint, 
8  oz. 


L.  J.  CALLANAN 


TELEPHONE 
NOS.  85S5-8586  Cortlandt 


41  and  43  Vcscy  St.,  New  Vbrk 


Callanan's  Magazine  and  Price-List  Mailed  on  Request 


404 


%'  GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


o* 

i 


mo 

§§ 


AND  DRAPERIES 


WHAT  DO  YOU  KNOW  about  Mattresses?  Or 
know,  if  anything,  about  THE  MATTRESS  o 
"a-mattress-is-a-mattress"  Icind  of  good  fellows,  who 
fort,  much  less  the  sanitary  features  of  ycur  bed  ? 

If  so,  stop !   Think  for  a  moment.    Think  se 
stake,  but  your  well-being,  your  health,  your  happin 
Don't  follow  the  example  of  a  wiseacre  we  h 
gated  the  subject,  said:   "Yes,  I  probed  into  it  a  bit, 
deeper  I'd  have  to  throw  away  my  mattress  and  bu 


,  to  bring  it  a  little  closer  home  to  you,  what  do  you 
n  which  you  sleep  ?   Are  you  one  of  those  easy-going 
never  gives  a  serious  thought  to  real,  restful  com- 

riously,  earnestly,  for  not  only  is  your  comfort  at 
ess,  your  very  life  may  be  in  imminent  peril, 
eard  of  recently,  who,  when  asked  if  he  had  investi- 
but  stopped  short  because  1  could  see  that  if  I  probed 
y  a  new  one."    DON'T  BE  A  WISEACRE. 


IF 


'i 


?2 


S8 


EST 


59  lbs. 


8S 


ss 


3S 
3S 
8S 

mo 

90 

s? 
Is 

om 

3S 

«o 
o* 

IS 
Is 


One  or  Two  Parts 
STUFFED 


'■rf'/J'//',  *y  'A 


A  ft.  6  in. 


4  ft. 


3  ft.  6  in. 


3  ft. 


12, 


If  not  satisfactory  after  six  (6)  months'  use  we  will  cliecrMlIy 

money. 


s; 

•o 
o* 
•  J 

•J 

s^ 
ss 


ss 


s? 


ss 
ss 


SS 


SS 

•o 

ss 

•o 
o* 

ss 

•o 
c» 
•o 

ss 

o* 

ss 

•o 
o* 
•o 
o* 
•o 
o* 

ss 

•o 
o* 
•o 
o* 

ss 


2S2S2S2S2S£S2SS2J2»''S''»''!°«o»<3»ot2»o«o»o«o»oio«o»o«c«oio»o«o«o«oto»o»o»o»o» 
•O»0*o»o»o«o.oo«o*o»o»o»o«o»o»o»oic»o»otc»o»oeooooc«c»o».-'t:tctctctcto»oto»c 


GOVERNMENT    COOK  BOOK 


105 


Palms, Vines  and  Fresh  Flowers 

Supplied  and  Artistically  Arranged  for  Weddings  at  Reasonable  Rates 


FLORAL 
DECORATIONS 
FOR 
ALL 
OCCASIONS 


PLANTS 
AND 
FLOWERS 
DELIVERED 
ANYWHERE 


Thirty=five  Greenhouses 

HORTICULTURIST 

734  Fifth  Avenue 

  Branches:  Fort  Hamilton  Parkway, 

TELEPHONES  27  South— 3410  Flatbush.  Gravesend  Av.,  and  291-313  24th  St. 

PLOTS  IN  GREENWOOD  CEMETERY  IMPROVED  AND  CARED  FOR. 


Resi^oia^es    tl^e    Cor-n.   in   Two  Days 

If  YOU  have  tried  the  "best''  remedies  and 
still  suffer,  purchase  these  plasters  from  your 
DRUGGIST-  -put  them  to  work. 

A  WELLIg^G  mmO  IV8AKES  A  LIGHT  FOOT 

Order  by  the  name— STEP  LIVELY 


CHARLES  BAUER 


LABORATORSES: 


Hempstead,  N.  Y.,  U.  S.  A. 


106 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


CHAS.STREBEL&SONS 


4246  n    1    .  . 
Telephones  4247  BushwicK 


Architectural 


AND 


Structural 

IRON 


Shutters,  Railings,  Vault  Lights,  Window  Guards,  Etc. 
Steel  Beams,  Columns.  Girders,  Doors,  Fire  Escapes. 

ALL  SIZES  ANCHORS  AND  BRIDLE  IRONS  CONSTANTLY  ON  HAND 

^nS'^SIks;  1732=1734=1736  MYRTLE  AVE.^^MlWv'*- 


Phone  5970  Main. 


Estimates  Cheerfully  Furnished  on  All  Kinds  of  Cleaning  Work 


WM.  WHEELER,  Manager. 

FLATS  AND  APARTH^ENTS  CLEANED 

AT  MODERATE  PRICES   HARDWOOD  FLOOR  SURFACING 

We  send  our  Electric  Vacuum  Cleaning"  Auto  to  your  door  and  clean  your  apart- 
ment without  inconvenience  or  delay.   Electric  light  furnished  for  entertainments. 

451  ATLANTIC  AV.  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 


IF  THE  BABY  IS  CUTTING  TEETH 

Be  sure  and  use  that  old  and  well-tried  remedy, 
MRS.  WINSLOWS 

FOR  CHILDREN  TEETHING. 

F  It  soothes  the  child,  softens  the  gums,  allays  all  pain,  cures  wind  colic,  and  is  the  best) 
temedy  for  diarrhoea. 

Twenty-five  Cents  a  Boitle. 

V  Sold  All  Over  the  World,  ^ 


GOVERNMENT    COOK  BOOK 


107 


Authorized  by  the  State 

LICENSED 


BONDED 


FRANK  PEYSER'S 

DETECTIVE  BUREAU 

Reliable  Confidential  Prompt  Reports 

Thorough  Detective  Work  in  All  Its  Branches 
EXPERT  SECRET  SERVICE 

45  West  34th  Street,  N.  Y. 


Tel.  2016  Greeley. 


Night  TeL  1018-W  Coney  Island 


RESIDENCE: 
1723  East  13th  Street,  Brooklyn. 


A.  GOODMAN 
E.  GOODMAN 
D.  COW^KN 


No  coloring 
used  in  our 
Egg  Noodles. 


WE  ARE  MANUFACTURERS  OF 
MACARONI,  PURE  EGG  NOODLES,  ETC. 


EST. J 805 
Teleplione 
2328  Stay vesan  t 


All  our  products 
are  of  the  high-, 
est  standard. 


Our  Macaroni  is 
made  of  the 
best  wheat. 


Our  business  in- 
creases through 
the  recommen- 
dation of  others. 


WRITE  FOR  RECIPES. 


SOLE  BAKERS  OF  THE  BERLINER  TEA  MATZOTHS. 


108 


GOVERNMENT   COOK   BOOK  ^' 


THE  DEWEY 

Dry  Cleansing  and  Dyeing 

ESTABLISHMENT 

1259  FULTON  STREET 

TELEPHONE  4008  BEDFORD  BROOKLYN,  N.  Y. 


STAINS  REMOVED  WITHOUT  CLEANING 
THE  WHOLE  GARMENT. 


Chiffons  and  Trimmings  Dyed 
to  Match  Samples 


Special  Garments  Cleaned  in  24  Hours 


STRICTLY  ODORLESS 


J 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


109 


Telephone,  110  Main 


Established  1870 


The  N.  Y.  Patent  Steam  Carpet 
Cleaning  &  Renovatine:  Co. 

SULLIVAN  &  COLE, 

SUCCESSORS  TO 


A.  P.  STEVENS 

OFFICE,  74  GOUHT  STREET 


FACTORY,  353  ADA3IS  ST. 
r  BROOKLYN,    ]V.  Y. 


Carpets  Fitted,  Sewed  and  Laid  at  Sliort  Notice 


Hair   Mattresses  and  Feather  Beds 
Renovated  and  Remade  by 
Our  New  Process 

ESTTMATE3S  CHEERFULLY  GIVEN 


MRS.  TYLER-MILLE 

Importer  and  Manufacturer  of 

FINE  HAIR  GOOD 

80  FLEET  STREET 

Opposite  Loeser's  and  New  Dime  Savings  Bank 

New  Method  Shampooing  Manicuring 
fiairdressing  Scalp  and  Facial  Massage 

LARGEST  LINE  OF  HAIR  GOODS  IN  THE  CITY. 


Telephone  Call,  1319  Main 


LOWEST  PRICES 


The  Clinton  Street  Baths, 

32-34  CLINTON  ST.  Telephone  1829  Main. 

TURKISH,  RUSSIAN  and  ELECTRIC  BATHS 

Always  open  for  gentlemen,  with  private  sleeping  rooms.  Ladies'  bath  from  9  A.MJ 
to  9  P.Al.,  except  Sundays  and  Holidays.  j 

THE  LADIES'  DEPARTMENT  has  recently  been  finely  decorated  and  greatly  im^ 
proved,  and  with  its  present  elegant  appointments  and  unrivaled  equipment  we  hope  to  make 
it  worthy  of  its  refined  and  growing  patronage. 

Special  courtesy  extended  to  bathers  for  the  first  time. 

Skilled  manicurist  and  chiropodist  in  attendance. 


At  a  very  small  expense  your  mind  can  be  fed  with  good  substantial  food — gathered  from  the 
rich  field  of  all  The  Eagle  Library  books  each  year.  Only  one  dollar  for  52  weeks — not  2  cents  per 
we^.  This  includes  The  Eagle  Almanac.  Think  this  over — only  ot¥2  dollar  for  a  whole  year's  intel- 
lectual food.    Live  topics  ready  at  your  hand.    Keep  well  informed.  1, 


110 


GOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


WHEN  YOU  WANT 
TAXI  SERVICE 

'Phone  BEDFORD  4772  and  Get  the  Best 

OPEN  DAY  AND  NIGHT 


BEDFORD  GARAGE  and  AUTO  SERVICE 
1293  BEDFORD  AVENUE 

At  Atlantic  Avenue 


30  YEARS  AGO 


41  YEARS  AGO 


ESTABLISHED  1865 

At  the  close  of  the  Civil  War. 
Been  doing  business  at  this 
same  location  ever  since. 


W.  H.  HARRISON^S  SONS 

WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL  DEALERS  IN  • 

Flour,  Butter,  Sugar,  Teas,  Coffees,  Spices,  Etc. 
579,  581,  583  and  585  890,  892,  908  and  910 

WASHINGTON  AVENUE  PACIFIC  STREETj 


GOVERNMENT   COOK   BOOK  lit 


112 


TGOVERNMENT   COOK  BOOK 


r 


Telephone  545S  Rector 


For 


etectives 


Investigations 
Surveillancs 
Shadowing 
ecret  Inauires 


High  Glass 
Detectives  for 

Weddings, 
Receptions,  Etc, 


ERTY'S 

;tective  bureau 

3i  Broadway,  N.  Y. 


Established  15  Years.  Bonded  Employees 
A  Telephone  Call  Will  Bring  a  Representative 


When  Cooked  on  a  Gas 
Range  It's  Sure  to  Be 
Right, 


THE  BES  T  RESUL  TS 

From  the  Recipes  in 
this  book  will  be  ob- 
tained from  the  use  of 

GAS 

For  Broiling,  Baking 


A  Rel 
Ins 


Demonstrated  at  any  of  Our  Branch  Offices 

^'•^  Brooklyn  Union  Gas  Co, 


Drop  a  Postal  to  our 

Gas  Appliance  Department 

130  Atlantic  Avenue 
and  a  Representative  Will  Call 


Absolutely  Fireproof 


!  Detachable  Badiei-for-Furniture 
Can  be  Shipped  to  ariy|artof*'WDrla 
by  Motor  Van,Rai!foad  °L  Steamship 
LONGlSLANDSTORAGEWAREHOUSESi 

NOSTRAND  a-  G^VTES  AVE'S.  I 

BROOKLYN.  NEW  YORK  CITY. 


Fireproof 
Rooms 
for 
Houseliold 
Furniture 


Safe  Deposit  Boxes 
Vaults  for  Silverware 


1 


House  to  House  Removals 


Furniture  Boxed  and  Stiipped 
to  Any  Part  of  tlie  World, 
by  Van,  Railroad  or  Steam- 
ship. 


I 
I 

I 


Long  Island  ^.^TlZi 


Storage 


Avenues 


Warehouses  Srvo7k 

(  Park  Avenue  and  Broadway 

Branch  Warehouses^  w„„.   a.  „„..^ 

( nenti  near  r lushing  Avenue 

CORRESPONDING  WAREHOUSES 

WASHINGTON.  D.  C.       BALTIMORE        CHICAGO  DENVER 

ST.  LOUIS  LONDON  PARIS  BERLIN 


i 


;3o  — 


c; 


<5 

(TO 

U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture 
Library 

NOTICE  TO  BORROWERS 

Please  return  aU  books  promptly  after 
finishing:  your  use  of  them,  in  order  that 
they  may  be  available  for  reference  by 
other  persons  who  need  to  use  them. 

Please  do  not  lend  to  others  the  books 
and  periodicals  charged  to  you.  Return 
them  to  the  Library  to  be  charged  to 
the  persons  who  wish  them. 

The  mutilation,  destruction,  or  theft 

?on  c^^'f  ^  punishable  by  law. 

(20  Stat.  171,  June  15,  1878  ) 


lilb.d 


3—7888 


