Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


BULLETIN  NO.  17  EXPERIMENT  STATION,  1910 

„ Tuskegee  Normal  and  Industrial  Institute 
Tuskegee  Institute,  Alabama 


Possibilities  of  the 

' . 

Sweet  Potato 

1 . ! 

Macon  County,  Alabama 


BULLETIN  No.  17 

iftio 

Experiment  Station 

Tuskegee  Normal  and  Industrial  Institute 

Tuskegee  Institute,  Alabama 


Possibilities  of  the  Sweet  Potato 
in  Macon  County  Alabama  : : 

’ BY 

GEORGE  W.  CARVER,  M.  S.  A£r. 


The  Tuske^ee  Experiment  Station 


Board  of  Begents 

Mr.  Charles  Coleman  Thatch,  President. 

Hon.  J.  A.  Wilkinson 

Mr.  W.  W.  Campbell 

Mr.  Charles  W.  Hare 

Mr.  A.  J.  Wilborn 

Mr.  Booker  T.  Washington 

Mr.  Warren  Logan. 


Auburn,  Ala. 

Montgomery,  Ala. 

Tuskegee,  Ala. 

Tuskegee,  Ala. 

Tuskegee,  Ala. 

Tuskegee  Institute,  Ala. 
Tuskegee  Institute,  Ala. 


Station  Staff 

G.  W.  Carver,  M.  S.  Agr Director 

O.  W.  Ferguson Assistant  to  the  Director  of  Experiment  Station 

George  R.  Bridgeforth Director  of  Agricultural  Industries 

B.  A.  Clarke Assistant  to  Director  of  Agricultural  Industries 

T.  N.  Cowen Farm  Superintendent 

John  D.  Wray First  Assistant  to  Farm  Superintendent 

Edward  Mahone Second  Assistant  to  Farm  Superintendent 

H.  H.  Wheeler Dairy  Herd 

R.  S.  Pompey Assistant  to  Dairy  Herdsman 

C.  W.  Greene Truck  Garden 

H.  P.  Warmack Beef  Herd 

A.  A.  Turner Dairying 

Almancy  L.  Evans Poultry  Raising 

R.  R.  Robinson In  Charge  of  Swine  Herd 

Martin  Van  Darthard.  .Care  and  Management  of  Horses  and  Mules 
M.  F.  Ballentine.  ..Assistant  Care  and  Management  of  Horses 

and  Mules 

T.  M.  Campbell Demonstrative  and  Farmers7  Institute  Work 

R.  L.  Waggener Farm  Mechanic 

E.  L.  Falkner Fruit  Growing 

L.  J.  Watkins Road  Building  and  Construction  Work 

George  B.  Thornton Stenographer 

John  E.  Shaw Veterinarian 

W.  A.  Tate..  .United  States  Demonstration  Work  and  Jesup  Wagon. 


Preface 


The  colored  farmers  of  Macon  County  alone  ought  to  produce 
annually  1,000,000  bushels  of  sweet  potatoes  in  addition  to  their 
cotton  crops.  A sweet  potato  is  something  that  can  always  be  used* 
It  can  be  used  to  feed  cows,  pigs  and  chickens.  Aside  from  this, 
there  is  always  sale  for  sweet  potatoes.  There  is  no  better  climate 
or  soil  in  the  world  for  producing  sweet  potatoes  than  we  have  right 
here  in  Macon  County,  and  there  is  no  reason  why  any  farmer  even 
though  his  cotton  crop  fails,  should  not  be  in  good  condition  by 
reason  of  having  planted  sweet  potatoes  to  eat  and  sell.  Let  us  all 
unite  in  making  Macon  County  the  banner  sweet-i)otato-producing 
county  throughout  the  entire  South. 


March,  1910 


Bulletin  No.  IT 


Possibilities  of  the  Sweet  Potato  in 
Macon  County,  Alabama 

G.  W.  CARVER,  M.  S.  Agr.,  Dir. 


If  there  is  one  crop  more  than  another,  that  Macon  County  can 
produce  year  by  year  and  with  almost  unerring  certainty,  it  is  the 
sweet  potato  crop. 

Now  what  is  true  of  Macon  County  is  true  of  the  adjoining 
counties,  and  is  more  or  less  true  of  the  entire  South. 

HISTORY 

It  is  said  that  the  early  navigators  of  the  sixteenth  century 
recognized  such  a strong  resemblance  between  the  Irish  potato  and 
the  sweet  potato  that  they  called  them  both  by  the  same  name. 

They  are  not  only  different  botanically,  but  the  edible  parts  of 
each  are  in  character  and  taste  quite  unlike. 

Botanically,  the  sweet  potato  belongs  to  the  morning  glory 
family  (Convolvulaceae),  and  has  been  given  the  technical  name  of 
Ipome  abatatas. 

ORIGIN 

The  origin  of  the  sweet  potato  is  doubtful,  although  there  is 
very  strong  evidence  that  it  is  distinctly  American,  as  fifteen  or 
sixteen  known  species  of  the  genus  Batatas  are  found  in  this 
country.  The  1 ‘Indian  potato,”  “Tuckahoe”  and  uHog  potato,”' 
which  grow  abundantly  in  this  country  and  throughout  the  South, 
are  all  species  of  this  genus. 

VARIETIES 

More  than  100  so-called  varieties  make  up  the  present  list, 
many  of  which  there  is  a distinction  without  a well-defined 
difference. 

Since  some  varieties  do  well  in  one  section  and  practically  fail 
in  others,  I have  thought  wise  to  list  none  except  those  that  have 
proven  the  most  prolific  and  best  with  us. 

TABLE  VARIETIES:  Dooley  Yam,  Improved  Dooley  Yam, 
Triumph  and  Pumpkin  Yam. 

VARIETIES  FOR  FEEDING  STOCK:  These  grow  to  a very 
large  size  and  make  a fine  yield,  but  are  not  very  sweet  and  rather 
inferior  for  table  use— White  Bermuda,  Red  Nansemond,  “Negro 
Choker”  and  Hayti  Spanish. 

CLIMATE  AND  SOIL 

As  to  climate,  the  sweet  potato  thrives  and  does  its  best  only  in 
a warm  climate,  with  plenty  of  sunshine  and  moderate  showers, 
evenly  distributed  throughout  the  growing  season.  In  this,  Macon 
County  is  especially  favored. 


6 


BULLETIN  NUMBER  SEVENTEEN 


The  soil,  for  the  most  part,  is  considered  a light  grey,  with 
an  admixture  of  sand,  varying  from  11  to  85  per  cent,  and  seems 
especially  adapted  to  the  growing  of  not  only  large  yields,  but 
potatoes  of  exceptionally  fine  flavor. 

Heavy,  waxy,  clay  soils  are  not  conducive  to  heavy  yields  of 
potatoes,  but  fortunately  there  is  but  very  little  soil  of  this  kind  in 
the  county. 

SELECTING  THE  SEED 

Experiments  seem  to  indicate  that  very  large  potatoes  are  not 
preferable  for  seed,  but  those  measuring  from  an  inch  to  an  inch 
and  a half  in  diameter — they  should  be  smooth,  long  or  round  as 
the  variety  suggests,  and  free  from  any  woody  or  stringy  appear- 
ance. Discard  any  having  specks  of  decay  or  that  have  blemishes 
of  any  kind.  Also  select  seed  from  those  hills  that  show  the 
largest  percentage  of  marketable  potatoes,  the  best  flavor,  the 
richest  color  and  the  largest  yield. 

THE  PLANT  BED 

Select  as  warm  and  sunny  a place  as  possible;  further  protect 
by  banking  up  on  the  north  side  with  earth. 

Build  an  ordinary  plank  cold-frame  from  5 to  6 feet  wide  and 
any  length  desired,  facing  and  sloping  toward  the  south,  having 
its  south  wall  several  inches  lower  than  its  north  wall. 

Bank  up  well  on  the  outside,  and  protect  from  water  by  run- 
ning a little  ditch  around  on  the  outside.  Remove  the  earth  within 
the  frame  to  a depth  of  from  4 to  12  inches;  spread  a thin  layer  of 
oak  leaves  or  pine  straw  on  the  bottom  of  this  excavation.  Upon 
this  place  a layer  of  manure,  from  4 to  6 inches  thick,  and  pound 
down  slightly.  Place  a layer  of  soil  over  this,  from  2 to  3 inches 
thick.  On  this  lay  the  sweet  potatoes  side  by  side,  horizontally, 
and  just  far  enough  away  to  keep  them  from  touching  each  other. 
Cover  with  good  rich  garden  soil  to  a depth  of  2 or  3 inches ; cover 
with  sash  or  canvas  oiled  with  linseed  or  cotton  seed  oil. 

The  amount  of  manure  required  in  the  hot  bed  is  governed 
solely  by  the  climate,  more  being  needed  in  cold  than  in  hot 
climates.  In  the  Gulf  States,  from  2 to  5 inches  is  the  truck 
gardeners’  rule,  while  10  and  12  inches  is  not  uncommon  in  Iowa, 
Kansas  and  New  Jersey.  Keep  the  bed  moist  at  all  times.  It 
requires  from  5 to  6 weeks  to  produce  slips  large  enough  for 
setting. 

The  sweet  potato  plant  is  very  susceptible  to  frost,  and  should 
not  be  planted  in  large  acreages  earlier  than  April  15th.  When  the 
plants  are  3 or  5 inches  in  length  and  properly  hardened  off,  they 
are  ready  to  set. 

Ninety  days  after  transplanting  is  an  old  rule,  but  we  have  been 
able  to  get  potatoes  as  large  as  goose  eggs,  from  the  earliest 
varieties,  in  70  days. 

VINE  CUTTINGS 

It  is  generally  conceded  that  after  the  vines  have  begun  to  run 


BULLETIN  NUMBER  SEVENTEEN 


7 


well,  the  cuttings  are  far  more  preferable  than  slips.  Several 
stations  have  devoted  considerable  time  to  this  important  problem 
and  found  that  under  favorable  conditions  there  is  practically  no 
difference  in  the  yield.  They  did,  however,  find  that  a close 
pruning  of  the  vines  decreased  the  amount  of  marketable  potatoes 
by  increasing  the  number  of  small  ones. 

This  station  verified  the  above  in  1908  and  1909. 


The  Results  of  Land  Poorly  Prepared 

PREPARATION  OF  LAND 

In  this  county  the  land  should  be  broad-casted  to  a depth  of  9 
or  10  inches.  If  barnyard  manure,  muck,  leaves,  etc.,  are  to  be  used 
as  a fertilizer,  it  should  be  broad-casted  and  plowed  in.  Harrow 
repeatedly  until  the  soil  is  thoroughly  pulverized  and  mixed.  If 
commercial  fertilizers  are  used,  apply  “in  the  drill,”  the  same  as 
for  cotton. 

Ridges  from  3 to  6 inches  above  the  valleys  should  be  made  by 
throwing  two  furrows  together  with  a turning  plow.  Just  before 
planting  the  tops  of  these  ridges  should  be  knocked  off  with  a board 
drag,  or  something  of  the  sort.  In  land  that  is  inclined  to  be  wet, 
cold  and  clammy  (which  is  quite  unfit  for  large  yields  of  potatoes), 


8 


BULLETIN  NUMBER  SEVENTEEN 


make  the  ridges  much  higher,  12  inches  often  being  none  too  high; 
the  object  here  is  to  dry  out  the  ground. 

If  the  largest  quantity  possible  is  desired  per  acre,  make  the 
rows  2 1-2  feet  in  width.  Ordinarily  the  rows  are  from  8 to  3 
1-2  feet  from  center  to  center. 


The  Results  of  Land  Well  Prepared 


PLANTING 

In  setting  the  plants  it  is  very  essential  that  the  ridges  be 
cleaned  of  weeds— never  set  plants  cn  a weedy  ridge,  as  it  multi- 
plies the  work,  increases  the  expense  of  the  crop,  and  often  reduces 
the  yield  of  potatoes  by  stunting  the  growth  of  the  plant. 

In  planting  set  the  slips  a little  deeper  than  they  were  in  the 
plant  bed.  Just  after  a moderate  shower  is  the  most  favorable 
time  for  setting,  although  this  can  be  successfully  done  in  very  hot, 
dry  weather  as  follows:  (a)  By  watering  the  plants,  which  is 
tedious  and  impracticable  where  large  acreages  are  to  be  planted, 
(b)  By  puddling  or  mudding  the  roots,  which  consists  of  making  a 
loblolly  of  thin  clay  mortar  and  dipping  the  roots  into  it — balls  of 
this  moist  clay  will  stick  to  the  roots  and  stem  and,  if  planted  at 
once,  will  tide  the  plant  over  9 or  10  days  of  protracted  drought. 


BULLETIN  NUMBER  SEVENTEEN 


9 


FERTILIZING 

A series  of  experiments  demonstrated  that  the  grey  sandy  soils 
of  Macon  County  respond  best  to  a mixture  of  600  pounds  of 
muriate  of  potash,  120  pounds  of  acid  phosphate,  and  75  pounds  of 
nitrate  of  soda  per  acre,  making  a total  of  795  pounds.  The 
application  was  made  exactly  the  same  as  for  planting  cotton,  except 
that  only  half  of  the  mixture  w'as  applied  before  the  plants  were 
set;  the  other,  when  the  plants  began  to  run  vigorously.  A Ghaut 
fertilizer  distributor  was  used  to  put  the  fertilizer  down  each  time. 
The  second  application  of  the  fertilizers  gave  the  best  results, 
as  our  soils  are  leachy,  and  much  of  it  would  have  been  washed 
away  and  probably  an  equal  amount  sunken  below  the  depth  to 
which  the  roots  could  reach,  if  all  had  been  put  in  at  one  time. 


NO.  1,  CORRECT  CULTIVATION 

(A)  Two  inches  of  fine  soil. 

(B)  Seven  inches  of  loose  mellow  soil. 

(C)  Subsoil  full  of  water. 

NO.  2,  INCORRECT  CULTIVATION 

(A)  Six-inch  cultivation,  the  ground  left  loose  and  open. 

(B)  Three  additional  inches  of  loose  earth,  which  will  dry 
out  very  fast. 

(B)  Subsoil  with  its  capillary  water,  much  of  which  will 
soon  be  exhausted. 

All  that  is  necessary  here  is  to  keep  the  ground  free  from 
weeds,  and  make  it  loose  and  porous  so  that  the  soil  bacteria  can 
get  plenty  of  air,  to  enable  them  to  do  their  highest  service;  also 


10 


BULLETIN  NUMBER.  SEVENTEEN 


to  create  and  preserve  a dust  mulch  to  tide  the  plants  over  periods 
of  drought. 

The  above  cut  is  self-explanitory ; it  is  easily  seen  that  the 
deep  cultivation  given  in  No.  2 has  cut  the  feed  roots,  and  has  not 
only  reduced  the  amount  of  foliage,  but  greatly  reduced  the  crop 
of  potatoes. 

INSECT  ENEMIES 

In  this  section  there  ar3  practically  no  insects  that  give  the 
farmer  trouble— neither  cut  worms,  flea  beetles  or  the  Tortoise 
beetles.  The  constant  stirring  of  the  ground  and  the  vigorous 
growth,  are  all  against  injurious  attacks  of  insects. 


FUNGUS  DISEASES 

In  this  section  there  are  two  or  three  diseases  that  are  especially 
troublesome,  viz.:  black  rot  (Ceratocystis  fimbriata).  This  disease 
is  especially  destructive  in  the  store  room.  With  us,  all  varieties 
seem  to  be  equally  affected.  The  tubers  are  more  or  less  marked 
(according  to  the  severity  of  the  disease)  with  dark  brown  patches, 
which  gives  the  whole  tuber  an  unpleasant  bitter  taste.  If  only 
slightly  affected  they  bear  a strong  resemblance,  in  taste,  to 
frosted  potatoes,  and  for  this  reason  many  mistakes  are  made.  It 
often  attacks  the  plants  in  the  bed,  and  may  be  recognized  by  the 
plants  turning  black  at  the  bottom,  and  of  course  such  will  soon  die. 

REMEDIES 

(a)  Avoid  planting  slips  from  a diseased  bed. 

(b)  Do  not  save  seed  from  a field  containing  diseased  tubers. 

(c)  Rotate  the  crop;  do  not  plant  two  years  in  the  same  place. 


BULLETIN  NUMBER  SEVENTEEN 


11 


soft  rot  (Rhizopus  nigricans) 

Here,  this  disease  seems  to  be  by  far  the  most  troublesome  of  all, 
and  so  far  as  observation  goes,  is  a storage  trouble,  being  confined 
strictly  to  the  tubers.  It  attacks  the  potato  wherever  there  are 
bruised,  broken  or  cut  places,  etc.,  appearing  in  black  powdery 
masses  like  the  black  mould  of  bread.  Immature,  cut,  broken  and 
bruised  potatoes  are  harbingers  and  breeders  of  the  disease. 


12 


BULLETIN  NUMBER  SEVENTEEN 


REMEDIES 

(a)  Nothing  but  mature  potatoes  should  be  banked.  (See  cut.) 

(b)  Dry  them  out  thoroughly  before  storing. 

(c)  Avoid  as  far  as  possible  the  putting  in  of  tubers  cut,  bruised 
or  injured  in  any  way. 

(d)  Keep  cool  and  as  dry  as  possible;  also  free  from  mice,  rats 
or  destructive  vermin  of  any  kind. 

HARVESTING  AND  STORING 

The  importance  of  correctly  harvesting  the  crop  is  a matter 
which  must  not  be  passed  by  lightly,  as  in  this  lies  very  largely  the 
success  of  any  method  of  storing.  As  far  as  possible  the  following 
should  be  observed : 

(1)  Select  a time  when  both  the  air  and  ground  are  dry. 

(2)  Remove  the  vines  with  a sharp  hoe,  vine  cutter  or  any 
implement  that  will  do  the  work  rapidly  and  well. 

(3)  Dig  before  the  frost  injures  the  vines  to  any  extent.  Dig 
in  the  morning  and  allow  the  potatoes  to  lie  out  all  day.  Gather 
up  in  baskets  or  boxes  holding  not  more  than  one  bushel  each. 
Handle  with  great  care,  as  they  are  easily  bruised  and  every  injury 
lessens  their  keeping  qualities. 


BULLETIN  NUMBER  SEVENTEEN 


13 


Curve  /\ 

A Mature  Potato 

In  the  matter  of  storing  there  is  a variety  of  methods,  all 
possessing  more  or  less  merit.  Where  just  a few  hundred  bushels 
are  to  be  kept,  the  old  primitive  method  of  banking  is  quite 
satisfactory.  For  this  a well  drained  piece  of  land  is  selected 
which  is  slightly  hollowed  out— the  size  of  the  base  of  the  desired 
bank.  This  is  covered  with  leaves,  pine-tag,  or  straw. 


j/e.  u t * l ci  t o 


Potato  Bank 


C £«•  1*  1/  £»  J\ 


14 


BULLETIN  NUMBER  SEVENTEEN 


The  potatoes  are  piled  up  into  a conical  shaped  mound  around 
a piece  of  bark  curled  up,  a board  flue,  or  anything  that  will  serve 
as  a ventillator.  (See  cut. ) 

The  cut  shows  also  the  depth  to  which  the  straw  and  earth 
should  be  put  for  this  locality.  The  cover  should  vary  according  to 
the  severity  of  the  climate.  When  large  quantities  are  kept, 
potato  houses  seem  preferable,  as  they  can  at  all  times  be 
examined  and  the  defective  ones  removed. 

AS  FOOD  FOR  MAN 

As  a food  for  human  consumption,  the  sweet  potato  has,  and 
alwa\  s will  be,  held  in  very  high  esteem,  and  its  popularity  will 
increase  as  we  learn  more  about  its  many  possibilities. 

There  is  an  idea  prevalent  that  anybody  can  cook  sweet 
potatoes.  This  is  a great  mistake,  and  the  many,  many  dishes  of 
illy  cooked  potatoes  that  are  placed  before  me  as  I travel  over  the 
South,  prompt  me  to  believe  that  these  recipes  will  be  of  value 
(many  of  which  I have  copied  verbatim  from  Bulletin  No.  129, 
U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture.)  The  above  bulletin  so  aptly 
adds  the  following: 

uThe  delicate  flavor  of  a sweet  potato  is  lost  if  it  is  not  cooked 
properly.  Steaming  develops  and  preserves  the  flavor  better 
than  boiling,  and  baking  better  than  steaming.  A sweet  potato 
cooked  quickly  is  not  well  cooked.  Time  is  an  essential  element. 
Twenty  minutes  may  serve  to  bake  a sweet  potato  so  that  a hungry 
man  can  eat  it,  but  if  flavor  is  an  object,  it  should  be  kept  in  the 
oven  an  hour.” 

NO.  1,  BOILED  OR  STEAMED 

Boil  or  steam  like  white  potatoes  and  without  breaking  the 
skin.  If  boiled,  pour  off  the  water  as  soon  as  done,  cover  the  pot 
with  a cloth  and  let  stand  on  the  back  part  of  the  range  a few 
minutes  before  serving 

NO.  2,  BAKED 

Scrub  with  a brush  and  rinse  with  water  until  thoroughly  clean. 
Bake  like  white  potatoes,  without  breaking  the  skin.  When  done 
break  the  skin  in  one  place  in  the  form  of  a cross,  forcing  the 
meat  partly  out,  cap  with  butter  and  serve. 

Potatoes  from  1 to  1 1-2  inches  in  diameter,  and  from  5 to  6 
inches  long,  are  the  most  desirable  for  baking— the  flavor  seems  to 
be  far  superior  to  the  larger  kinds,  or  the  round  or  irregular  sort. 

NO.  3,  BAKED  IN  ASHES 

In  this  method  the  sweetness  and  piquancy  of  the  potato  is 
brought  out  in  a manner  hardly  obtainable  in  any  other  way. 
Select  the  same  kind  of  potatoes  as  described  above  for  baking; 
cover  them  with  warm  ashes  to  a depth  of  4 inches ; upon  this 
place  live  coals  and  hot  embers ; let  bake  slowly  for  at  least  two 
hours.  Remove  the  ashes  with  a soft  brush,  and  serve  while  hot 
with  butter. 


BULLETIN  NUMBER  SEVENTEEN 


15 


NO.  4,  FRIED 

Cut  in  slices  lengthwise  and  fry  in  deep  grease,  same  as  white 
potatoes.  Care  must  be  taken  to  not  allow  them  to  become  hard 
and  dry. 

no.  5,  CHIPS 

Cut  in  thin  slices,  steam  until  nearly  done,  allow  the  surplus 
water  to  drain  off  or  dry  between  napkins,  fry  in  deep  fat  to  a light 
brown.  This  makes  a line  breakfast  dish.  A little  salt  adds  to  the 
flavor. 

no.  6,  pie  (Extra  Fine) 

Boil  in  skins.  When  tender,  remove  skins;  mash  and  beat 
until  light.  To  each  pint  of  potato,  add  1-2  pint  of  milk,  1-2  pint  of 
cream  and  four  well  beaten  eggs;  add  1 1-2  tea-cups  of  sugar  (less 
if  the  potatoes  are  very  sweet).  Add  spice,  cinnamon  and  ginger 
to  taste;  one  ground  clove  will  improve  it.  Bake  with  bottom 
crust  only.  The  above  is  enough  for  five  or  six  pies. 

NO.  7,  SLICED  POTATO  PIE 

Line  a deep  baking  dish  w th  a rich  sheet  of  pastry.  Parboil 
the  number  of  potatoes  desired.  When  two-thirds  done,  remove 
the  skins,  slice  lengthwise,  very  thin,  cover  the  dish  to  a depth  of 
2 inches;  sprinkle  with  ground  allspice  and  a dash  of  ginger,  cloves 
and  nutmeg.  To  a pie  sufficient  for  six  people,  scatter  around  the 
top  in  small  pieces  a lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a hen  egg;  add  one 
teacupful  of  sugar  and  1-2  teacupful  of  molases.  Add  1-2  pint  of 
cream,  dust  a little  flour  over  the  top  sparingly;  cover  with  hot 
water,  put  on  upper  crust,  crimp  the  edges,  and  bake  in  a moderate 
oven  until  done.  Serve  hot,  with  or  without  sauce. 

NO.  8,  GLACE  NO.  1 

Boil  and  cut  in  halves  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes,  lay  evenly 
in  braising  pan,  baste  with  syrup  and  butter  warmed  together, 
sprinkle  lightly  with  brown  sugar,  put  in  hot  oven  till  brown,  and 
serve  in  the  syrup. 

NO.  9,  GLACE  NO.  2 

Cut  in  slices  1-2  inch  thick,  wash  and  place  in  deep  sauce 
pan;  spread  with  butter,  season  with  a little  grated  nutmeg 
and  salt;  moisten  with  broth  or  water,  cover  and  let  simmer  over  a 
slow  fire  for  8-4  of  an  hour,  turning  the  slices  so  that  they  will 
glace  on  both  sides.  Serve  with  drawn  butter  or  other  sauce. 

NO.  10,  SWEET  POTATO  COBBLER 

Prepare  the  potatoes  the  same  as  for  No.  6.  Proceed  to  fill  the 
dish  the  same  as  for  layer  cake,  rolling  out  the  layer  of  dough 
quite  thin  and  spreading  the  mixture  on  in  layers  about  1-4  of  an 
inch  thick.  Proceed  until  the  dish  is  full;  add  to  each  layer  just 
enough  water  to  cook  the  layer  of  crust.  Bake  until  thoroughly 
done,  and  serve  hot  with  drawn  butter  or  hard  sauce. 

NO.  11,  WITH  ROAST  BEEF  NO.  1 

Boast  the  beef  and  make  a brown  gravy.  Take  sweet  potatoes 


16 


BULLETIN  NUMBER  SEVENTEEN 


of  medium  size,  previously  ba’<  ed ; remove  the  skin,  and  garnish 
the  dish  with  the  potatoes.  Serve  the  potatoes  with  the  beef. 

NO.  12,  WITH  ROAST  BEEF  NO.  2 

Parboil  the  desired  number  of  potatoes  with  the  peelings  on 
until  nearly  done;  remove  and  peel;  lay  in  the  baking  dish  with 
the  nearly  done  roast;  cook  until  done,  and  serve  with  the  beef. 

NO.  13,  WITH  ROAST  PORK 

Select  a desirable  piece  of  fresh  pork;  bake  until  nearly  done; 
dip  or  pour  off  as  much  of  the  grease  as  possible ; prepare  the 
potatoes  the  same  as  for  No.  12.  Lay  them  in  the  gravy;  and 
slightly  brown,  with  the  meat,  until  done. 

NO.  14,  BROILED 

Steam,  pare  and  cut  in  slices  3-8  of  an  inch  thick;  lay  the  slices 
in  a double  broiler;  salt;  cover  with  melted  butter,  and  broil  over  a 
slow  fire;  serve  in  folded  napkins. 

NO.  15,  STUFFED  NO.  1 

Bake,  then  cut  off  one  end  and  scoop  out  the  inside;  season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt;  beat  until  light;  replace  in  the  skin;  close 
with  the  piece  cut  off  and  put  into  the  oven  to  heat  through.  Serve 
in  napkins.  Suitable  for  luncheon. 

NO.  16,  STUFFED  NO.  2 

Prepare  the  same  as  f r No.  15,  to  which  add  to  every  pint  of 
potato  1-4  pint  of  minced  ham;  mix  thoroughly,  fill  the  hulls,  heat 
and  serve. 

NO.  17,  A SOUTHERN  DISH 

Cut  cold  baked  sweet  potatoes  into  slices  and  put  into  an 
earthen  dish;  add  sugar  and  butter  to  each  layer  and  bake  until 
slightly  browned. 

NO.  18,  CROQUETTES 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  mashed,  boiled,  steamed  or  baked  sweet 
potatoes;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  season  to  taste; 
stir  over  the  fire  until  the  mass  parts  brown  the  sides  of  the  pan. 
When  cold,  form  into  small  croquettes,  roll  in  egg  and  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  to  amber  color.  Serve  on  napkins. 

NO.  19,  SWEET  POTATO  BALLS 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  croquettes,  make  into  balls  and  enclose 
within  the  center  minced  meat. 

no.  20,  PUREE 

Take  mashed,  boiled,  steamed  or  baked  sweet  potatoes;  season 
and  add  enough  hot  milk  to  moisten;  serve  like  mashed  white 
potatoes,  or  put  in  pudding  dish ; dress  the  top  with  egg  and  brown 
in  oven;  serve  with  sauce. 

NO.  21,  BROWNED 

Cut  cold,  boiled  or  stewed  sweet  potatoes  into  slices  1-4  of  an 
inch  thick;  add  butter,  sugar,  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  into  hot 
oven  to  brown. 

NO.  22,  SCALLOPED  POTATOES 

Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes;  slice  very  thin ; put  in  baking 


BULLETIN  NUMBER  SEVENTEEN 


17 


dish  in  layers ; season  each  layer  with  salt,  butter,  1-2  teacup  of 
sugar,  a dash  of  spice,  nutmeg  and  ginger ; cover  with  milk  that 
has  been  made  1-2  cream;  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  tender; 
serve  hot. 

NO.  23,  DELICIOUS  POTATOES 

Wash  and  pare  rather  small  sized  potatoes;  steam  or  boil  until 
they  can  be  readily  pierced  with  a fork;  dry  the  surplus  water  off; 
have  a little  butter  melted  in  a dish,  roll  the  potatoes  in  this;  place 
in  a quick  oven  and  brown  slightly;  serve  hot. 

NO.  24,  HASHED  POTATOES 

Take  cold  sweet  potatoes,  either  steamed  or  boiled,  roasted  or 
baked:  cut  into  small  pieces,  place  in  a well  buttered  pan,  mince 
scraps  of  meat  of  any  kind  and  stir  into  it;  let  brown  and  serve  hot. 
Chicken  makes  a most  excellent  meat  to  put  in. 

NO.  25,  BAKED  WITH  APPLES 

Take  four  medium-sized  potatoes  and  the  same  number  of 
apples.  Wash,  peel  and  cut  the  potatoes  in  slices  about  1-4  of  an 
inch  thick;  pare  and  slice  the  apples  in  the  same  way;  put  in 
baking  pish  in  alternate  layers ; sprinkle  11-2  cups  of  sugar  over 
the  top,  scatter  1-2  cup  of  butter  also  over  the  top;  add  3-4  pint  of 
hot  water;  bake  slowly  for  one  hour;  serve  steaming  hot. 

CANNING 

The  sweet  potato  is  quite  easy  to  can,  and  in  several  states  the 
industry  has  assumed  quite  handsome  proportions.  They  find  a 
ready  sale  in  localities  where  fresh  ones  cannot  be  had. 

The  method  of  canning  is  very  similar  to  that  of  beans,  peas, 
corn,  tomatoes,  etc.  The  culls,  or  rather  small  potatoes,  are  usually 
selected  for  canning.  They  are  steamed  or  boiled  until  tender,  the 
skin  removed,  placed  in  the  can  and  thoroughly  exhausted,  after 
which  the  cans  are  removed  from  the  water  and  sealed  at  once. 
Two  and  three  pound  cans  are  favorite  sizes  to  use. 

I think  without  doubt  that  there  are  almost  unlimited 
possibilities  in  this  direction  for  Alabama,  and  especially  Macon 
County,  as  this  soil  seems  to  be  peculiarly  adapted  to  their  growth 
and  develops  that  very  fine  flavor  quite  equal  to  the  famous 
“Jersey  Sweets,”  of  national  reputation. 

AS  A FOOD  FOR  STOCK 

The  value  of  root  crops  for  stock  has  so  long  been  recognized 
that  it  is  almost  universally  regarded  as  a necessity,  not  alone  for 
the  actual  food'  nutrients  they  contain,  but  the  peculiar  diatetic 
effect  so  essential  to  the  well-being  of  all  animals. 

A glance  at  the  table  below  will  convince  the  most  skeptical  of 
its  superiority  over  many  of  the  standard  food-stuffs. 

AVERAGE  COMPOSITION 


Food  Material 

Mangel  Beet 

Turnip 

Rutabaga 

Carrot 

Parsnip 

Sweet  Potato 


Protein,  or  Muscle 
Builders 

1.4  per  cent. 

1.1  per  cent. 

1 .2  per  cent. 

1.1  per  cent. 

1.6  per  cent. 

1.5  per  cent. 


Carbohydrates,  or  Fat 
Formers 
7.6  per  cent. 

7.6  per  cent. 

9.0  per  cent. 

9.3  per  cent. 

11.4  per  cent. 

26.4  per  cent. 


18 


BULLETIN  NUMBER  SEVENTEEN 


We  readily  see  that  the  potato  contains  practically  as  much 
muscle-building  material  as  any,  and  more  than  double  that  of  the 
fat  formers. 

In  view  of  the  above  table  and  most  especially  the  fact  that 
years  of  experience  has  taught  us  that  the  sweet  potato  crop  is  the 
one  that  can  be  depended  upon  in  favorable  years  for  an  enormous 
yield,  which  can  be  greatly  increased  with  a little  intelligent 
direction  in  the  preparation  of  the  soil,  fertilization,  etc.  We  have 
been  able  to  produce  here  on  our  Experiment  Station  359  bushels  to 
the  acre,  and  I fully  believe  our  soils  can  be  made  to  yield  500 
bushels  of  the  coarser  growing  varieties.  The  saving  of  sweet 
potatoes  in  large  quantities  has  been  more  or  less  unsatisfactory 
with  us,  keeping  excellently  in  some  years  and  completely  failing 
in  others.  Again,  the  digging  and  housing  adds  considerable 
expense  to  the  crop. 

A series  of  experiments  have  proven  that  the  Dooley  Yam, 
Southern  Queen,  Pumpkin  Yam  and  the  White  and  Red 
Nansemond  may  be  left  out  in  the  field  with  but  slight  injury  for 
feeding  purposes,  which  would  save  the  expense  of  housing  or 
banking  and  the  possible  large  loss  from  decay. 

EXPERIMENT  NO.  1 

Mr.  M.  V.  Darthard,  in  charge  of  the  horses  and  mules,  who 
personally  conducted  the  following  experiment,  is  enthusiastic  over 
the  results.  The  experiment  covered  a period  of  30  days: 

Four  mules  were  fed  potatoes,  two  that  were  doing  heavy  work 
and  two  that  were  doing  light  work ; corn  was  used  as  the  grain 
ration.  After  the  preliminary  feeding,  substitutions  for  grain  was 
made  at  the  rate  of  2 3-4  to  3 1-2  pounds  of  potatoes  to  1 1-2  pounds 
of  corn  plus  the  usual  ration  of  hay. 

These  four  mules  kept  in  good  condition,  and  were  able  to  do 
good  work.  In  fact  they  looked  as  well  and  were  able  to  do  as 
much  work  as  the  four  check  mules. 

The  result  of  this  experiment  was,  that  the  sweet  potato  was 
made  to  replace  1-2  of  the  corn  for  the  feeding  of  mules,  which 
means  a great  saving  in  actual  dollars  and  cents. 

CAUTION 

It  is  highly  important  that  the  potatoes  be  gradually  fed  in  the 
beginning,  increasing  the  quantity  as  the  animal  becomes 
accustomed  to  them.  Frozen  potatoes  must  also  be  fed  with 
caution,  or  ascetic  or  alcoholic  fermentation  may  set  in  and  cause 
serious  results.  Do  not  feed  the  potatoes  to  horses,  mules  and 
cattle  after  they  have  become  sour;  hogs  may  eat  them  with 
safety. 

EXPERIMENT  NO.  2— THE  FEEDING  OF  SWEET  POTATOES  TO  HOGS 

This  experiment  was  conducted  by  Mr.  R.  R.  Robinson,  in 
charge  of  the  swine  herd. 

Six  hogs  were  used;  two  were  fed  wholly  on  sweet  potatoes,. 


BULLETIN  NUMBER  SEVENTEEN 


19 


two  were  fed  shorts,  and  two  were  fed  corn.  Eight  pounds  of 
potatoes  were  fed  each  day,  with  the  following  gain  of  flesh  at  the 
close  of  28  days : 

Lot  1.  Fed  on  potatoes;  made  a total  gain  of  21  1-2  pounds. 

Lot  2.  Fed  on  shorts ; made  a total  gain  of  88  pounds. 

Lot  8.  Fed  on  corn ; made  a total  gain  of  53  1-2  pounds. 

These  figures  are  intensely  interesting  from  the  fact  that  such 
highly  concentrated  food  stuffs  as  shorts  and  corn  only  exceed  the 
potatoes  thus:  In  the  matter  of  putting  on  fat— corn,  29  pounds; 
shorts,  8 1-2  pounds.  It  is  also  easy  to  see  that  these  results  are 
not  inconsistent  with  good  farm  practice,  and  all  farmers  with 
experience  know  that  all  kinds  of  stock,  such  as  hogs,  cattle, 
horses,  mules  and  poultry,  are  not  only  fond  of  them,  but  thrive 
upon  them  as  well,  when  the  potatoes  are  judiciously  fed,  with 
concentrates,  such  as  corn,  cotton-seed  meal,  bran,  shorts,  etc. 

VINES 

The  vines  make  an  excellent  quality  of  hay,  which  chemists 
find  to  be  in  composition  about  the  same  as  that  of  succulent  cow- 
pea  vines.  The  vines  turn  black  when  dried,  but  stock  eat  them 
greedily.  The  vines  have  been  found  to  be  of  the  following 
composition:  Muscle  builders,  12.48  per  cent.;  Fat  formers,  78.79 

per  cent. 

MISCELLANEOUS  INFORMATION 

When  potatoes  are  frozen  so  that  they  become  soft  they  must 
be  fed  as  fast  as  possible,  as  they  will  not  keep. 

Care  must  be  taken  to  not  give  horses,  mules  and  cattle  too 
much  of  them,  as  they  are  very  sweet  after  freezing  and  tempting 
to  the  appetite.  Steaming,  boiling  and  mixing  with  grains,  shorts, 
meal,  bran,  corn,  etc.,  make  an  excellent  fattening  food  for  hogs 
and  one  greatly  relished.  We  fed  them  after  being  frozen  the 
same  as  before  without  any  apparent  bad  results. 

I have  very  briefly  and  imperfectly  touched  upon  the  many 
possibilities  of  the  sweet  potato.  I trust  that  Macon  County  will 
take  the  lead  in  developing  the  almost  limitless  possibilities  of  this 
splendid  crop  and  show  its  relations  to  the  dairy  industry,  beef 
production,  starch  mills,  and  that  it  is  the  most  important  and 
useful  of  all  our  root  crops  for  the  feeding  of  farm  animals. 

In  1902  Alabama  produced  3,457,386  bushels  of  sweet  potatoes 
from  50,865  acres  of  land,  a ludicrously  small  amount.  May  we  not 
unite  in  all  of  our  efforts  and  within  a short  time  double  that 
amount,  and  continue  progressing  until  the  maximum  of  production 
is  reached. 


