Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


2d  Set 


[ O O 


Library^  D.^?  ^^.'bfAgrfcuiiur^,, 

WASKtlNGHON,  I>.  Ck 


BULLETIN  NO.  38 


NOVEMBER  1935 


HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE 
HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


And  Ways  of  Preparing  Them  for  the  Table 


(Revised  and  Reprinted) 
THIRD  EDITION 


By 

GEO.  W.  CARVER,  M.  S.  Agr.,  D.  Sc. 


Director,  Experiment  Station 
Tuskegee  Normal  and  Industrial  Institute 


Tuskegee  Institute  Press — 1935 


I 


How  the  Farmer  Can  Save  His  Sweet  Potatoes 
And  Ways  of  I^reparing  Them  for  the  Table 

By  George  W.  Carver,  M.  S.  Agr.,  D.  Sc. 

There  are  but  few  if  any  of  our  staple  farm  crops  receiving  more 
attention  than  the  sweet  potato,  and  indeed  rightfully  so — The  splen- 
did service  it  rendered  during  the  great  World  War  in  the  saving  of 
wheat  flour,  will  not  soon  be  forgotten.  The  118  different  and  at- 
tractive products  (to  date)  made  from  it,  are  sufficient  to  convince 
the  most  skeptical  that  we  are  just  beginning  to  discover  the  real 
value  and  marvelous  possibilities  of  this  splendid  vegetable. 

Here  in  the  South,  there  are  but  few  if  any  farm  crops  that  can  be 
depended  upon  one  year  with  another  for  satisfactory  yields,  as  is 
true  of  the  sweet  potato.  It  is  also  true  that  most  of  our  Southern 
soils  produce  potatoes  superior  in  quality,  attractive  in  appearance 
and  satisfactory  in  yield,  as  any  other  section  of  the  country. 

HISTORY 

It  is  said  that  the  early  navigators  of  the  sixteenth  century  recog- 
nized such  a strong  resemblance  between  the  Irish  potato  and  the 
sweet  potato  that  they  called  them  both  by  the  same  name. 

They  are  not  only  botanically  different  but  the  edible  parts  of  each 
are  in  character  and  taste  quite  unlike.  Botanically,  the  sweet  po- 
tato belongs  to  the  morning  glory  family  (Convolvulaceae),  and  has 
been  given  the  technical  name  of  Impomoeabatatas. 

ORIGIN 

The  origin  of  the  sweet  potato  is  doubtful,  although  there  is  very 
strong  evidence  that  it  is  distinctly  American,  as  fifteen  or  sixteen 
known  species  of  the  genus  Batatas  are  found  in  this  country.  The 
^‘Indian  potato,^’  “Tuckahoe’’  and  “Hog  potato,”  which  grow  abun- 
dantly in  this  country  and  throughout  the  South,  are  all  species  of  this 
genus. 

VARIETIES 

More  than  11  so-called  varieties  make  up  the  present  list,  in  many 
of  which  there  is  a distinction  without  a well-defined  difference.  Since 
some  varieties  do  well  in  one  section  and  practically  fail  in  others. 

I have  thought  it  wise  to  list  none  except  those  that  have  proven  the 
most  prolific  and  best  with  us. 


—3— 


4 HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


Table  Varieties — Dooley  Yam,  Improved  Dooley  Yam,  Triumph, 
Pumpkin  Yam,  Porto  Rico  and  Nancy  Hall. 

Varieties  for  Feeding  Stock — ^These  grow  to  a very  large  size  and 
make  a fine  yield,  but  are  not  very  sweet  and  rather  inferior  for  table 
use,  but  for  making  flour,  starch,  tapioca  and  many  other  of  the  sweet 
potato  products,  they  are  excellent  and  in  some  instances,  preferable 
— White  Bermuda,  Red  Nansemond,  “Negro  Choker”  and  Hayti  Span- 
ish.  1 C ' j 

CLIMATE  AND  SOIL 

As  to  climate,  the  sweet  potato  thrives  and  does  its  best  only  in  a 
warm  climate,  with  plenty  of  sunshine  and  moderate  showers  evenly 
distributed  throughout  the  growing  season.  The  growing  popularity 
of  the  sweet  potato,  however,  has  caused  greater  adaptation  of  stan- 
dard sorts  to  both  soil  and  climate  and  the  origin  of  many  new  varie- 
ties which  to  a remarkable  degree  adjust  themselves  to  shorter  grow- 
ing seasons  and  colder  soils,  thus  extending  production  much  farther 
north,  east  and  west.  However,  as  far  as  possible,  avoid  planting  in 
heavy,  waxiy  soils  as  they  are  not  conducive  to  heavy  yields  of  pota- 
toes. 

SELECTING  THE  SEED 

Experiments  seem  to  indicate  that  very  large  potatoes  are  not  pre- 
ferable for  seed,  but  those  measuring  from  an  inch  to  an  inch  and  a 
half  in  diameter;  they  should  be  smooth,  long  or  round  as  the  va- 
riety suggests,  and  free  from  any  woody  or  stringy  appearance.  Also 
select  seed  from  those  hills  that  show  the  largest  percentage  of  mar- 
ketable potatoes,  the  best  flavor,  the  richest  color  and  the  largest 
yield. 

THE  PLANT  BED 

Select  as  warm  and  sunny  a place  as  possible;  further  protect  by 
banking  upon  the  north  side  with  earth.  Build  an  ordinary  plank 
cold  frame  from  5 to  6 feet  wide  and  any  length  desired,  facing  and 
sloping  towards  the  South,  having  its  south  wall  several  inches  lower 
than  its  north  wall.  Bank  up  well  on  the  outside  and  protect  from 
water  by  running  a little  ditch  around  on  the  outside.  Remove  the 
earth  within  the  frame  to  a depth  of  from  4 to  12  inches;  spread  a 
thin  layer  of  oak  leaves  or  pine  straw  on  the  bottom  of  this  excava- 
tion. Upon  this  place  a layer  of  manure,  from  4 to  6 inches  thick, 
and  pound  down  slightly.  Place  a layer  of  soil  over  this  from  2 to  3 
inches  thick.  On  this  lay  the  sweet  potatoes,  side  by  side,  horizontally 
and  just  far  enough  away  to  keep  them  from  touching  each  other. 
Cover  with  good  rich  garden  soil  to  a depth  of  2 or  3 inches;  cover  with 
sash  or  canvas  oiled  with  linseed  or  cotton  seed  oil. 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  THEM  FOR  THE  TABLE  5 


The  amount  of  manure  required  in  the  hot  bed  is  governed  solely  by 
the  climate,  more  being  needed  in  cold  than  in  warm  climates.  In 
the  Gulf  States,  from  2 to  5 inches  is  the  truck  gardener’s  rule,  while 
10  to  12  inches  is  not  uncommon  in  Iowa,  Kansas  and  New  Jersey. 
Keep  the  bed  moist  at  all  times.  It  requires  from  5 to  6 weeks  to 
produce  slips  large  enough  for  setting. 

The  sweet  potato  plant  is  very  susceptible  to  frost  and  should  not 
be  planted  in  large  acreages  earlier  than  April  15th  in  this  section. 
When  the  plants  are  3 to  5 inches  in  length  and  properly  hardened 
off,  they  are  ready  to  set.  Ninety  days  after  transplanting  is  an  old 
rule,  but  we  have  been  able  to  get  potatoes  as  large  as  goose  eggs, 
from  the  earliest  varieties  in  70  days. 

NEW  METHODS 

In  this  method  pure  sand  is  used  instead  of  soil,  anyone  who  learns 
to  use  this  method  will  never  go  back  to  the  old.  The  chief  advantages 
of  this  method  are: 

1st  The  slips  are  freer  from  disease. 

2nd  The  slips  seem  to  grow  faster  in  the  bed. 

3rd  Fewer  potatoes  rot  in  the  bed. 

4th  The  slips  live  not  only  just  as  well  when  set  out,  but  I 

believe,  grow  off  better  and  faster  than  when  growing  in  the 
soil. 

5th  The  slips  develop  very  strong  roots. 

VINE  CUTTING 

It  is  generally  conceded  that  after  the  vines  have  begun  to  run 
well,  the  cuttings  are  far  more  preferable  than  the  slips.  Several 
stations  have  devoted  considerable  time  to  this  important  problem  and 
found  that  under  favorable  conditions  there  is  practically  no 
difference  in  the  yield.  They  did,  however,  find  that  a close  pruning 
of  the  vines  decreased  the  amount  of  marketable  potatoes  by  increas- 
ing the  number  of  small  ones. 

This  station  verified  the  above  from  1908  to  1919,  testing  out  many 
varieties,  each  variety  attesting  to  the  truth  of  the  above  statement. 

PREPARATION  OF  LAND 

In  this  country  the  land  should  be  broadcasted  to  a depth  of  9 or 
10  inches.  If  barnyard  manure,  mulch,  leaves,  etc.,  are  to  be  used  as 
a fertilizer,  it  should  be  broadcasted  and  ploughed  in.  Harrow  re- 
peatedly until  the  soil  is  thoroughly  pulverized  and  mixed.  If  rich, 
coarse,  strawj^  fertilizers  are  used,  without  mixing  well,  the  potatoes 
almost  invariably  will  be  black,  scurfy  and  unattractive  in  appearance, 
with  poor  keeping  qualities. 


6 HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


PLANTING 

In  setting  the  plants  it  is  very  essential  that  the  ridges  be  cleaned  of 
weeds — never  set  plants  on  a weedy  ridge,  as  it  multiplies  the  work, 
increases  the  expense  of  the  crop  and  often  reduces  the  yield  of  po- 
tatoes by  stunning  the  growth  of  the  plant. 

In  planting  set  the  slips  a little  deeper  than  they  were  in  the  plant 
bed.  Just  after  a moderate  shower  is  the  most  favorable  time  for  set- 
ting, although  this  can  be  successfully  done  in  very  hot  dry  weather 
as  follows:  (a)  By  watering  the  plants,  which  is  tedious  and  imprac- 
ticable, as  a rule,  where  large  acreages  are  to  be  planted,  (b)  By 
puddling  or  mudding  the  roots,  which  consists  of  making  a loblolly 
of  thin  clay  mortar  and  dipping  the  roots  into  it — ^balls  of  this  moist 
clay  win  stick  to  the  roots  and  stem  and,  if  planted  at  once,  will  tide 
the  plant  over  9 or  10  days  of  protracted  drought. 

FERTILIZING 

A series  of  experiments  demonstrated  that  the  gray  sandy  soils 
of  Macon  County  respond  best  to  a mixture  of  600  pounds  of  muriate 
of  potash,  120  pounds  of  acid  phosphate  and  75  pounds  of  nitrate 
of  soda  per  acre,  making  a total  of  795  pounds.  The  application  was 
made  exactly  the  same  as  for  planting  cotton  except  that  only  half 
of  the  mixture  was  applied  before  the  plants  were  set;  the  other 
when  the  plants  began  to  run  vigorously.  A Ghant  fertilizer  dis- 
tributor was  used  to  put  the  fertilizer  down  each  time.  The  second 
application  of  the  fertilizers  gave  the  best  results,  as  our  soils  are 
leachy,  and  much  of  it  would  have  been  washed  away  and  probably  an 
equal  amount  sunken  below  the  depth  to  which  the  roots  could 
reach,  if  all  had  been  put  in  at  one  time. 

COMPOST  FERTILIZERS 
HOW  TO  MAKE  THE  COMPOST 

Two  loads  of  leaves  and  muck  (muck  is  simply  the  rich  earth  from 
the  swamp)  are  taken,  and  spread  out  in  a pen.  One  load  of  barnyard 
manure  is  spread  over  this.  The  pen  is  filled  in  this  way.  It  is  either 
rounded  over  like  a potato-hill,  or  a rough  shed  is  put  over  it  to  turn 
the  excess  of  water,  so  as  to  prevent  the  fertilizing  constituents  from 
washing  out.  It  is  allowed  to  stand  this  way  until  spring. 

WHEN  TO  MAKE  COMPOST 

Begin  your  compost  heap  now;  do  not  delay;  let  every  spare  mo- 
ment be  put  in  the  woods  raking  up  leaves  or  in  the  swamps  piling  up 
muck.  Haul  and  put  in  these  pens.  Do  not  wait  to  get  the  barnyard 
manure — you  can  mix  in  it  aftei’wards,  or  if  you  cannot  get  the  barn- 
yard manure  at  all,  the  leaves  and  muck  will  pay  you  many  times 
in  the  increased  yield  of  crops. 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  THEM  FOR  THE  TABLE  7 


HOW  TO  USE 

Prepare  the  land  deep  and  thorough.  Throw  out  rows  with  a mid- 
dle-burster or  two-horse  plow;  put  in  the  compost  at  the  rate  of  20 
tons  per  acre,  25  where  the  land  is  very  poor.  Save  all  the  wood 
ashes,  waste  lime,  etc.,  and  mix  into  this  compost. 

RESULTS 

Three  acres  of  our  experimental  farm  has  had  no  commercial  fer- 
tilizer put  upon  it  for  15  years.  The  land  has  been  continually  cropped, 
but  has  increased  in  fertility  every  year,  both  physically  and 
chemically,  on  no  other  fertilizer  than  muck  compost  and  the  proper 
rotation  of  crops.  This  year  215  bushels  of  sweet  potatoes  were  made 
per  acre,  with  no  other  fertilizer  than  the  above  compost. 

INSECT  ENEMIES 

In  this  section  there  are  practically  no  insects  that  give  the  farmer 
trouble — neither  cut  worms,  flea  beetles  nor  the  tortoise  beetles.  The 
constant  stirring  of  the  ground  and  the  vigorous  growth  are  all 
against  injurious  attacks  of  insects. 

FUNGUS  DISEASES 

In  this  section  there  are  two  or  three  diseases  that  are  especially 
troublesome,  viz.,  black  rot  (Ceratocystis  fimbriata).  This  disease 
is  especially  destructive  in  the  storeroom.  With  us,  all  varieties  seem 
to  be  equally  affected.  The  tubers  are  more  or  less  marked  (accord- 
ing to  the  severity  of  the  disease)  with  dark  brown  patches,  which 
give  the  whole  tuber  an  unpleasant  bitter  taste.  If  only  slightly  af- 
fected, they  bear  strong  resemblance,  in  taste,  to  frosted  potatoes,  and 
for  this  reason  many  mistakes  are  made.  It  often  attacks  the  plants 
in  the  bed,  and  may  be  recognized  by  the  plants  turning  black  at  the 
bottom  and  of  course  such  will  soon  die. 

REMEDIES 

(a)  Avoid  planting  slips  from  a diseased  bed. 

(b)  Do  not  save  seed  from  a field  containing  diseased  tubers. 

(c)  Rotate  crop;  do  not  plant  two  years  in  the  same  place. 

SOFT  ROT  (Rhizopus  Nigricans) 

Here,  this  disease  seems  to  be  by  far  the  most  troublesome  of  all, 
and  so  far  as  observation  goes,  is  a storage  trouble,  being  strictly 
confined  to  the  tubers.  It  attacks  the  potato  wherever  there  are 
bruised,  broken  or  cut  places,  etc.,  appearing  in  black  powdery  masses 
like  the  black  mold  of  bread.  Immature,  cut,  broken  and  bruised 
potatoes  are  harbingers  and  breeders  of  the  disease. 


8 HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


REMEDIES 

(a)  Nothing  but  mature  potatoes  should  be  banked.  (See  cut.) 

(b)  Dry  them  thoroughly  before  storing. 

(c)  Avoid  as  far  as  possible  the  putting  in  of  tubers  cut,  bruised, 
or  injured  in  any  way. 

(d)  Keep  cool  and  as  dry  as  possible;  also  free  from  mice,  rats 
or  destructive  vermin  of  any  kind. 

HARVESTING  AND  STORING 

The  importance  of  correctly  harvesting  the  crop  is  a matter  which 
must  not  be  passed  by  lightly,  as  in  this  lies  very  largely  the  success 
of  any  method  of  storing.  As  far  as  possible,  the  following  should  be 
observed: 

1.  Select  a time  when  both  the  air  and  ground  are  dry. 

2.  Remove  the  vines  with  a sharp  hoe,  vine  cutter  or  any  imple- 
ment that  will  do  the  work  rapidly  and  well. 

3.  Dig  before  the  frost  injures  the  vines  to  any  extent.  Dig  in  the 
morning  and  allow  the  potatoes  to  lie  out  all  day.  Gather  up  in  bas- 
kets or  boxes  holding  not  more  than  one  bushel  each.  Handle  with 
great  care,  as  they  are  easily  bruised,  and  every  injury  lessens  their 
keeping  qualities. 

In  the  matter  of  storing  there  is  a variety  of  methods,  all  possess- 
ing more  or  less  merit.  Where  just  a few  hundred  bushels  are  to  be 
kept,  the  old  primitive  method  of  banking  is  quite  satisfactory  if 
the  potatoes  are  properly  cured  and  kept  dry,  which  is  a very  difficult 
thing  to  do.  For  this  a well  drained  piece  of  land  is  selected  which  is 
slightly  hollowed  out — the  size  of  the  base  of  the  desired  bank.  This 
is  covered  with  leaves,  pine-tag  or  straw. 

BANKING  POTATOES 

The  potatoes  are  piled  up  into  a conical  shaped  mound  around  a 
piece  of  bark  curled  up,  a board  flue,  or  anything  that  will  serve  as 
a ventilator. 

The  depth  to  which  the  straw  and  earth  should  be  put  for  this  local- 
ity, and  the  cover  should  vary  according  to  the  severity  of  the  climate. 
When  large  quantities  are  kept,  potato  houses  seem  preferable,  and 
they  can  at  all  times  be  examined  and  the  defective  ones  removed. 

HOW  TO  CURE  AND  STORE  THE  SWEET  POTATO 

During  the  war  this  station  along  with  many  others,  set  out  to 
find,  if  possible,  how  to  reduce  the  enormous  storage  losses  which 
rendered  the  growing  of  sweet  potatoes  hardly  thought  of  as  a money 
crop. 

There  seemed  to  be  no  method  which  had  an  element  of  certainty 
about  it  as  far  as  the  farmer  was  concerned,  and  for  this  reason  the 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  THEM  FOR  THE  TABLE  9 


Tuskegee  station  has  directed  its  efforts  almost  wholly  along  this  line, 
with  the  following  encouraging  results: 

(a)  We  found  that  there  was  little  more  excuse  for  the  farmers 
to  allow  their  potatoes  to  rot  than  their  corn. 

(b)  That  the  fundamental  thing  in  the  saving  of  sweet  potatoes 
is  to  cure  them  first. 

WHAT  IS  CURING? 

By  curing  we  mean  to  dry  the  moisture  out  of  the  potatoes  to  the 
point  where  they  will  give  a little  when  pressed  hard  between  the  ball 
of  the  thumb  and  fingers. 

HOW  DONE 

I always  manage  to  dig  my  potatoes  in  a very  dry  time.  Spread  out 
thinly  in  the  shade  where  the  air  will  blow  over  them  freely.  They 
may  also  be  dried  out  by  artificial  heat,  my  method  is  as  follows: 

I took  an  ordinary  wire  screen  door,  took  off  the  fine  wire  and  cov- 
ered it  with  large  coarse  wire,  I put  from  two  to  two  and  one-half 
bushels  of  potatoes  on  this  door  which  was  placed  in  a window  of  an 
ordinary  living  room.  The  window  was  raised  so  there  was  a brisk 
breeze  blowing  directly  over  and  through  the  potatoes.  If  dug  in  a dry 
time  and  the  air  is  dry,  three  or  four  days  are  all  that  is  necessary 
for  medium  sized  potatoes.  I then  lay  them  very  carefully  in  barrels 
without  breaking  or  bruising  any,  spread  a bit  of  coarse  bagging 
over  the  top  of  the  barrel.  I have  paid  no  attention  to  temperature, 
except  to  keep  them  always  above  the  freezing  point. 

I put  up  four  barrels  every  year  and  lose  less  than  three  potatoes 
to  the  barrel.  Last  year  I lost  four  potatoes.  I have  some  of  the  po- 
tatoes now,  October  14,  1920,  just  as  sound  as  those  I am  putting  away 
now. 

Note  what  the  Chamber  of  Commerce,  Montgomery,  Alabama,  says 
about  them: 

October  1,  1920 

“I  received  the  cured  sweet  potatoes  you  sent  me,  and  appreciate 
very  much  the  thought.  I have  cooked  and  compared  one  with  one  of 
this  year’s  crop  and  readily  noted  the  difference.  I am  convinced  now 
of  their  superiority. 

“I  exhibited  to  our  Board  of  Directors  at  their  last  meeting,  and 
they  were  very  much  interested.  Each  cut  a slice  and  ate  it  raw. 
They  could  hardly  believe  that  the  flavor  and  interior  freshness  could 
have  been  retained. 

‘‘On  October  4,  I had  dug  nine  bushels  of  Porto  Rican  potatoes, 
they  were  badly  cut  and  bruised  as  I had  them  dug  by  outside  labor 
in  the  same  way  the  average  farmer  digs  his  potatoes,  they  were  re- 


10  HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


moved  and  placed  on  a screen  in  a window,  rotting  ceased  and  those 
slightly  affected  cured  up  nicely  when  the  spoiled  portion  was  cut 
off  and  the  sound  part  placed  in  a good  draft  where  the  excess  of 
moisture  was  carried  away  quickly.” 

NOTE: — Care  must  be  taken  not  to  cover  the  barrels  or  boxes  up 
tightly  or  the  potatoes  will  sweat  and  spoil. 

AS  A FOOD  FOR  MAN 

As  a food  for  human  consumption,  the  sweet  potato  has  been,  and 
always  will  be,  held  in  very  high  esteem  and  its  popularity  will  in- 
crease in  this  direction  as  we  learn  more  about  its  many  possibilities. 

There  is  an  idea  prevalent  that  anybody  can  cook  sweet  potatoes. 
This  is  a very  great  mistake,  and  the  many,  many  dishes  of  illy  cooked 
potatoes  that  are  placed  before  me  as  I travel  over  the  South  prompt 
me  to  believe  that  these  recipes  will  be  of  value  (many  of  which  I 
have  copied  verbatim  from  Bulletin  No.  129  U.  S.  Department  of 
Agriculture).  The  above  bulletin  so  aptly  adds  the  following: 

“The  delicate  flavor  of  a sweet  potato  is  lost  if  it  is  not  cooked  prop- 
erly. Steaming  develops  and  preserves  the  flavor  better  than  boil- 
ing and  baking  better  than  steaming.  A sweet  potato  cooked  quickly 
is  not  well  cooked.  Time  is  an  essential  element.  Twenty  minutes 
may  serve  to  bake  a sweet  potato  so  that  a hungry  man  can  eat  it, 
but  if  the  flavor  is  an  object,  it  should  be  kept  in  the  oven  for  an 
hour.” 

No.  1,  BOILED  OR  STEAMED 

Boil  or  steam  like  white  potatoes  without  breaking  the  skin.  If 
boiled,  pour  off  the  water  as  soon  as  done,  cover  the  pot  with  a cloth 
and  let  stand  on  the  back  part  of  the  range  a few  minutes  before  serv- 
ing. 

No.  2,  BAKED 

Scrub  with  a brush  and  rinse  with  water  until  thoroughly  clean. 
Bake  like  white  potatoes,  without  breaking  the  skin.  ,When  done 
break  the  skin  in  one  place  in  the  form  of  a cross,  forcing  the  meat 
partly  out,  cap  with  butter  and  serve. 

Potatoes  from  1 to  1 and  1-2  inches  in  diameter,  and  from  5 to  6 
inches  long,  are  the  most  desirable  for  baking — the  flavor  seems  to 
be  far  superior  to  the  larger  kinds,  or  the  round  or  irregular  sort. 

No.  3,  BAKED  IN  ASHES 

In  this  method  the  sweetness  and  piquancy  of  the  potato  is  brought 
out  in  a manner  hardly  obtainable  in  any  other  way.  Select  the  same 
kind  of  potatoes  as  described  above  for  baking;  cover  them  with  warm 
ashes  to  a depth  of  4 inches,  upon  this  place  live  coals  and  hot  cin- 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  THEM  FOR  THE  TABLE  11 


ders;  let  bake  slowly  for  at  least  two  hours.  Remove  the  ashes  with 
a soft  brush  and  serve  while  hot  with  butter. 

No.  4,  FRIED 

Cut  in  slices  lengthwise  and  fry  in  deep  grease,  same  as  white  pota- 
toes. Care  must  be  taken  to  not  allow  them  to  become  hard  and  dry. 

No.  5,  CHIPS 

Cut  in  thin  slices,  steam  until  nearly  done,  allow  the  surplus  water 
to  drain  olf  or  dry  between  napkins,  fry  in  deep  fat  to  a light  brown. 
This  makes  a fine  breakfast  dish.  A little  salt  adds  to  its  flavor. 

No.  6,  PIE  (EXTRA  FINE) 

Boil  in  skins.  When  tender,  remove  skins;  mash  and  beat  until 
light.  To  each  pint  of  potatoes,  add  1-2  pint  of  milk,  1-2  pint  of 
cream  and  four  well-beaten  eggs;  add  1 1-2  teacups  of  sugar  (less  if 
the  potatoes  are  very  sweet).  Add  spice,  cinnamon  and  ginger  to  taste; 
one  ground  clove  will  improve  it.  Bake  with  bottom  crust  only.  The 
above  is  enough  for  five  or  six  pies. 

No.  7,  SLICED  POTATO  PIE 

Line  a deep  baking  dish  with  a rich  sheet  of  pastry.  Parboil  the  num- 
ber of  potatoes  desired.  When  two-thirds  done  remove  the  skins,  slice 
lengthwise,  very  thin,  cover  the  dish  to  a depth  of  2 inches,  sprinkle 
with  ground  all-spice  and  a dash  of  ginger,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  To  a 
pie  sufficient  for  six  people,  scatter  around  the  top  in  small  pieces 
a lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a hen’s  egg;  add  one  teacupful  of  sugar 
and  1-2  teacupful  of  molasses.  Add  1-2  pint  of  cream,  dust  a little 
flour  over  the  top  sparingly;  cover  with  hot  water,  put  on  upper  crust, 
crimp  edges  and  bake  in  a moderate  oven  until  done.  Serve  hot,  with 
or  without  sauce. 

No.  8,  GLACE  No.  1 

Boil  and  cut  in  halves  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes,  lay  evenly  in 
braising  pan,  baste  with  syrup  and  butter  warmed  together,  sprinkle 
lightly  with  brown  sugar,  put  in  hot  oven  until  brown,  and  serve 
in  the  syrup. 

No.  9,  GLACE  No.  2 

Cut  in  slices  1-2  inch  thick,  wash  and  place  in  deep  sauce  pan; 
spread  with  butter;  season  with  a little  grated  nutmeg  and  salt;  mois- 
ten with  broth  or  water,  cover  and  let  simmer  over  a slow  fire  for 
three-fourths  of  an  hour,  turning  the  slices  so  that  they  will  glace 
on  both  sides.  Serve  with  drawn  butter  or  other  sauce. 

No.  10,  SWEET  POTATO  COBBLER 

Prepare  the  potatoes  the  same  as  for  No.  6.  Proceed  to  fill  the  dish 
the  same  as  for  layer  cake,  rolling  out  the  layer  of  dough  quite  thin 


12  HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


and  spreading  the  mixture  on  in  layers  about  1-4  of  an  inch  thick. 
Proceed  until  the  dish  is  full;  add  to  each  layer  just  enough  water  to 
cook  the  layer  of  crust.  Bake  until  thoroughly  done,  serve  hot  with 
drawn  butter  or  hard  sauce. 

No.  11,  WITH  ROAST  BEEF,  No.  1 

Roast  the  beef  and  make  a brown  gravy.  Take  the  sweet  potatoes 
of  medium  size,  previously  baked;  remove  the  skin  and  garnish  the 
dish  with  the  potatoes.  Serve  the  potatoes  with  the  beef. 

No.  12,  WITH  ROAST  PORK,  No.  1 

Parboil  the  desired  number  of  potatoes  with  the  peelings  on  until 
nearly  done;  remove  and  peel;  lay  in  the  baking  dish  with  the  nearly 
done  roast;  cook  until  done,  and  serve  with  the  pork. 

No.  13,  WITH  ROAST  PORK,  No.  2 

Select  a desirable  piece  of  fresh  pork;  bake  until  nearly  done;  dip 
or  pour  off  as  much  of  the  grease  as  possible;  prepare  the  potatoes 
the  same  as  for  No.  12.  Lay  them  in  the  gravy  and  slightly  brown 
with  the  meat  until  done. 

No.  14,  BROILED 

Steam,  pare  and  cut  in  slices  3-8'  of  an  inch  thick;  lay  the  slices  in 
a double  boiler;  salt;  cover  with  melted  butter,  and  broil  over  a slow 
fire;  serve  in  folded  napkins. 

No.  15,  STUFFED,  No,  1 

Bake,  then  cut  off  one  end  and  scoop  out  the  inside;  season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt;  beat  until  light;  replace  in  the  skin;  close 
with  the  piece  cut  off  and  put  into  the  oven  to  heat  through.  Serve 
in  napkins.  Suitable  for  luncheon. 

No.  16,  STUFFED,  No.  2 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  No.  15,  to  which  add  to  every  pint  of  po- 
tato 1-4  pint  of  minced  ham;  mix  thoroughly,  fill  the  hulls,  heat  and 
serve. 

No.  17,  A SOUTHERN  DISH 

Cut  cold  baked  sweet  potatoes  into  slices  and  put  into  an  earthern 
dish;  add  sugar  and  butter  to  each  layer  and  bake  until  slightly  brown. 

No.  18,  CROQUETTES 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  mashed,  boiled,  steamed  or  baked  sweet  pota- 
toes; add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  season  to  taste;  stir  over 
the  fire  until  the  mass  parts  from  the  sides  of  the  pan.  When  cold, 
form  into  small  croquettes,  roll  in  the  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard  to  amber  color.  Serve  on  napkins. 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  THEM  FOR  THE  TABLE  13 


No.  19,  SWEET  POTATO  BALLS 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  croquettes,  make  into  balls  and  enclose 
within  the  center  of  minced  meat. 

No.  20,  PUREE 

Take  mashed,  boiled,  steamed  or  baked  sweet  potatoes;  season  and 
add  enough  hot  milk  to  moisten;  serve  like  mashed  white  potatoes, 
or  put  in  pudding  dish;  dress  the  top  with  egg  and  brown  in  oven; 
serve  with  sauce. 

No.  21,  BROWNED 

Gut  cold,  boiled  or  stewed  sweet  potatoes  into  slices  1-4  of  an  inch 
thick;  add  butter,  sugar,  pepper  and  salt  and  put  into  hot  oven  and 
brown. 

No.  22,  SCALLOPED  POTATOES 

Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes;  slice  very  thin;  put  in  baking  dish  in 
layers;  season  each  layer  with  salt,  butter,  1-2  teacup  of  sugar,  a 
dash  of  spice,  nutmeg  and  ginger,  cover  with  milk  that  has  been  made 
1-2  cream;  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  tender;  serve  hot. 

No.  23,  DELICIOUS  POTATOES 

Wash  and  pare  rather  small  sized  potatoes;  steam  or  boil  until 
they  can  be  readily  pierced  with  a fork;  dry  the  surplus  water  off; 
have  a little  butter  melted  in  a dish,  roll  the  potatoes  in  this;  place 
in  a quick  oven  and  brown  slightly;  serve  hot. 

No.  24,  HASHED  POTATOES 

Take  the  cold  sweet  potatoes,  either  steamed  or  boiled,  roasted  or 
baked;  cut  into  small  pieces,  place  in  a well  buttered  pan,  mince  scraps 
of  meat  of  any  kind  and  stir  into  it;  let  brown  and  serve  hot.  Chick- 
en makes  a most  excellent  meat  to  put  into  it. 

No.  25,  BAKED  WITH  APPLES 
(delicious) 

Take  four  medium  sized  potatoes  and  the  same  number  of  apples. 
Wash,  peel  and  cut  the  potatoes  in  slices  about  1-4  of  an  inch  thick; 
pare  and  slice  the  apples  in  the  same  way;  put  in  baking  dish  in  al- 
ternate layers;  sprinkle  1 1-2  cups  of  sugar  over  the  top,  scatter  1-2 
cup  of  butter  also  over  the  top;  add  3-4  pint  of  hot  water;  bake  slow- 
ly for  one  hour;  serve  steaming  hot. 

No.  26,  SWEET  POTATO  MUFFINS 

Boil  until  thoroughly  done  a sweet  potato  weighing  about  3-4  of  a 
pound;  mash  very  fine;  pass  through  colander  to  free  it  from  lumps; 
add  to  it  a large  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a little  salt;  whip 
well,  now  add  1-2  cupful  of  milk  and  two  well-beaten  eggs  and 
• flour  enough  to  make  a soft  batter,  which  will  be  about  two  cup- 


14  HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


fuls.  Before  adding  the  flour  sift  into  it  one  teaspoon  of  baking 
powder.  Bake  in  muffin  rings  or  gem  pans. 

No.  27,  SWEET  POTATO  DOUGHNUTS,  No.  1 

2 eggs  1 cup  cooked  and  mashed 

1 cup  sugar  sweet  potatoes 

3 tablespoons  melted  butter  1-2  teaspoon  soda 

1 cup  sour  milk  1 saltspoon  salt 

3 cups  flour  1 saltspoon  cinnamon 

Beat  the  eggs  until  light,  add  the  sugar,  butter  and  milk.  Mix 
the  salt,  soda  and  spice  with  the  flour.  Stir  into  the  egg  mixture, 
beat  in  thoroughly  the  mashed  sweet  potatoes;  if  too  soft  add  just 
enough  more  flour  to  make  it  just  soft  enough  to  roll  out. 

Roll,  cut  out,  and  fry  in  deep  fat  hot  enough  for  the  dough  to  rise 
at  once. 

No.  28,  SWEET  POTATO  DOUGHNUTS,  No.  2 
Make  exactly  the  same  as  for  No.  1 except  take  two  cups  of  flour  and 
two  cups  of  mashed  sweet  potatoes. 

No.  29,  SWEET  POTATO  PUFFERS 
Whip  two  eggs  until  quite  light;  two  cups  of  cold  mashed  potatoes; 
one  cup  of  flour  into  which  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  has  been 
sifted.  The  potatoes  and  eggs  should  be  worked  together,  then  the 
flour  and  baking  powder;  roll  lightly;  cut  quickly  and  fry  into  deep 
fat  like  doughnuts.  Some  think  a little  spice  improves  the  flavor. 

No.  30,  SWEET  POTATO  SAVORIES 
Boil  and  mash  as  many  sweet  potatoes  as  required;  when  cold 
stir  in  sufficient  flour  to  form  into  a paste;  roll  out  and  cut  into  small 
squares,  soak  a few  bread  crumbs  in  water  for  5 or  10  minutes;  squeeze 
dry;  add  a little  chopped  parsley,  mixed  herbs,  and  a small  onion  pre- 
viously soaked  in  hot  water;  season  with  salt  and  a dash  of  pepper. 
Mix  all  together  thoroughly,  put  a little  on  each  square  of  paste, 
and  fold  over  as  in  sausage  rolls;  fry  in  boiling  fat  until  brown;  drain 
and  serve. 

No.  31,  SWEET  POTATO  NUTS 

Take  one  pint  of  boiled  and  mashed  potatoes,  one  pint  of  toasted 
bread  crumbs  rolled  fine,  one  pint  of  mixed  nut  meats  chopped  fine 
(peanuts  are  excellent);  season  with  salt,  a little  pepper,  also  sage 
and  mace  if  desired;  take  the  yolks  of  two  eggs;  stir  in  two  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder;  whip  until  light;  pour  it  into  the  above  mixture 
and  stir  well;  form  into  small  cakes;  dip  each  into  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  then  into  shredded  cocoanut  and  brown  in  a frying  pan  contain- 
ing a little  pork  fat  (not  deep  fat);  turn;  brown  on  both  sides. 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  THEM  FOR  THE  TABLE  15 


No.  32,  SWEET  POTATO  RICED 

Pare  and  boil  the  potatoes  in  water  slightly  salted;  when  done  drain 
off  the  water,  and  run  through  a ricer;  serve  hot  with  plain  or  drawn 
butter. 

The  dry,  mealy  varieties  are  especially  pleasing  when  prepared 
in  this  way. 

CANNING 

The  sweet  potato  is  quite  easy  to  can,  and  in  several  states  the  in- 
dustry has  assumed  quite  handsome  proportions.  They  find  a ready 
sale  in  localities  where  fresh  ones  cannot  be  had. 

HOME  CANNING  OF  SWEET  POTATOES  IN  GLASS  JARS 

Peel  and  cut  the  potatoes  in  small  cubes  or  thick  slices;  pack  them 
just  as  closely  and  firmly  as  possible  in  the  jars;  fill  with  cold  water, 
put  the  lid  on  loosely,  and  boil  60  minutes;  tighten  the  lids  at  once. 
Potatoes  prepared  in  this  way  are  exceedingly  fine. 

COMMERCIAL  CANNING 

Mr.  H.  B.  Benson,  head  of  our  Canning  Division  and  who  success- 
fully cans  every  year  several  thousand  cans  of  potatoes,  hands  us  the 
following  as  his  method: 

“The  canning  of  sweet  potatoes  is  not  very  difficult,  but  it  requires 
considerable  attention  and  care,  because  if  not  handled  properly  an 
unsightly  article  will  appear. 

“There  are  two  styles  of  packing,  one  being  the  whole  potatoes, 
packed  as  dry  as  possible,  the  other  being  pie  stock,  in  which  the 
potatoes  appear  as  a pulp.  In  packing  the  whole  potatoes  it  is  very 
necessary  to  keep  them  dry,  because  the  nature  of  this  vegetable  is 
to  absorb  water,  and  they  should  not  come  from  the  cans  in  a water- 
soaked  condition.  To  avoid  this,  steam  them  about  three-fourths  done, 
slip  the  skins  off,  and  pack  into  the  cans  as  tightly  as  possible  without 
mashing;  exhaust  15  or  20  minutes;  seal  and  cook  3-pound  cans  45 
minutes  at  240  degrees  Farenheit,  or  90  minutes  at  212  degrees  Faren- 
heit.” 

AS  A FOOD  FOR  STOCK 

The  value  of  root  crops  for  stock  has  so  long  been  recognized  that 
it  is  almost  universally  regarded  as  a necessity,  not  alone  for  the 
actual  food  nutrients  they  contain,  but  the  peculiar  diatetic  effect 
so  essential  to  the  well-being  of  all  animals. 

A glance  at  the  table  below  will  convince  the  most  skeptical  of  its 
superiority  over  many  of  the  standard  food-stuffs. 


16  HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


AVERAGE  COMPOSITION 


Food  Material  Protein  or  Muscle  Carbohydrates  or  Fat 

Builders  Formers 

Mangel  Beet  1.4  per  cent  26.4  per  cent 

Turnip  1.1  per  cent  11.4  per  cent 

Rutabaga  1.2  per  cent  9.3  per  cent 

Carrot  1.1  per  cent  9.0  per  cent 

Parsnip  1.6  per  cent  7.6  per  cent 

Sweet  Potato  1.5  per  cent  7.6  per  cent 


W^e  readily  see  that  the  potato  contains  practically  as  much  muscle- 
building material  as  any,  and  more  than  double  that  of  the  fat  for- 
mers. 

In  view  of  the  above  table  and  most  especially  the  fact  that  years 
of  experience  have  taught  us  that  the  sweet  potato  crop  is  the  one 
crop  that  can  be  depended  upon  in  favorable  years  for  an  enormous 
yield,  which  can  be  greatly  increased  with  a little  intelligent  direc- 
tion in  the  preparation  of  the  soil,  fertilization,  etc.,  we  have  been  able 
to  produce  here  on  our  Experiment  Station  359  bushels  to  the  acre, 
and  I fully  believe  our  soils  can  be  made  to  yield  500  bushels  of  the 
coarser  growing  varieties. 

A series  of  experiments  have  proven  that  the  Dooley  Yam,  Southern 
Queen,  Pumpkin  Yam  and  the  White  and  Red  Nansemond  may  be 
left  out  in  the  field  with  but  slight  injury  for  feeding  purposes,  which 
would  save  the  expense  of  housing  or  banking. 

EXPERIMENT  No.  1 

Mr.  M.  V.  Darthard,  in  charge  of  the  horses  and  mules,  who  per- 
sonally conducted  the  following  experiments,  is  enthusiastic  over  the 
results.  The  experiment  covered  a period  of  30  days: 

Four  mules  were  fed  potatoes,  two  that  were  doing  heavy  work  and 
two  that  were  doing  light  work;  corn  was  the  grain  ration.  After 
the  preliminary  feeding,  substitutions  for  grain  were  made  at  the 
rate  of  2 3-4  to  2 1-2  pounds  of  potatoes  to  1 1-2  pounds  of  corn 
plus  the  usual  ration  of  hay. 

These  four  mules  kept  in  good  condition,  and  were  able  to  do  good 
work.  In  fact  they  looked  as  well  and  were  able  to  do  as  much  work 
as  the  four  check  mules. 

The  result  of  this  experiment  was,  that  the  sweet  potato  was  made 
to  replace  1-2  of  the  corn  for  the  feeding  of  mules,  which  means  a 
great  saving  in  actual  dollars  and  cents. 

CAUTION 

It  is  highly  important  that  the  potatoes  be  gradually  fed  in  the  be- 
ginning, increasing  the  quantity  as  the  animal  becomes  accustomed 
to  them.  Frozen  potatoes  must  also  be  fed  with  caution,  or  ascetic 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  THEM  FOR  THE  TABLE  17 


or  alcholic  fermentation  may  set  in  and  cause  serious  results.  Do 
not  feed  the  potatoes  to  horses,  mules  and  cattle  after  they  have  be- 
come sour;  hogs  may  eat  them  with  safety. 

EXPERIMENT  No.  2 

THE  FEEDING  OF  SWEET  POTATOES  TO  HOGS 
This  experiment  was  conducted  by  Mr.  R.  R.  Robinson,  in  charge 
of  the  swine  herd. 

Six  hogs  were  used;  two  were  fed  wholly  on  sweet  potatoes,  two 
were  fed  shorts,  and  two  were  fed  corn.  Eight  pounds  of  potatoes 
were  fed  each  day,  with  the  following  gain  of  flesh  at  the  close  of 
28  days: 

Lot  No.  1.  Fed  on  potatoes;  made  a total  gain  of  24  1-2  pounds 
Lot  No.  2.  Fed  on  shorts;  made  a total  gain  of  33  pounds 
Lot  No.  3.  Fed  on  corn;  made  a total  gain  of  53  1-2  pounds 
These  figures  are  intensely  interesting  from  the  fact  that  such 
highly  concentrated  foodstuffs  as  shorts  and  corn  only  exceed  the 
potatoes  thus:  In  the  matter  of  putting  on  fat — corn,  29  pounds; 
shorts,  8 1-2  pounds.  It  is  also  easy  to  see  that  these  results  are  not 
inconsistent  with  good  farm  practice,  and  all  farmers  with  experience 
know  that  all  kinds  of  stock,  such  as  hogs,  cattle,  horses,  mules  and 
poultry,  are  not  only  fond  of  them,  but  thrive  upon  them  as  well,  when 
the  potatoes  are  judiciously  fed  with  concentrates,  such  as  corn,  cot- 
tonseed meal,  bran,  shorts,  etc. 

VINES 

The  vines  make  an  excellent  quality  of  hay,  which  chemists  find  to 
be  in  composition  about  the  same  as  that  of  succulent  cow-pea  vines. 
The  vines  turn  black  when  dried,  but  the  stock  eat  them  greedily.  The 
vines  have  been  found  to  be  of  the  following  composition:  muscle 
builders,  12.48  per  cent;  fat  formers,  78.79  per  cent. 

MISCELLANEOUS  INFORMATION 

When  the  potatoes  are  frozen  so  that  they  become  soft  they  must 
be  fed  as  fast  as  possible,  as  they  will  not  keep. 

Care  must  be  taken  not  to  give  horses,  mules  and  cattle  too  much 
of  them,  as  they  are  very  sweet  after  freezing,  and  tempting  to  the 
appetite.  Steaming,  boiling  and  mixing  with  grains,  shorts,  meal, 
bran,  corn,  etc.,  make  an  excellent  fattening  food  for  hogs  and  one 
greatly  relished.  We  feed  them  after  being  frozen  the  same  as  be- 
fore without  any  apparent  bad  results. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  SAVEEl'  POTATO  FLOUR 
There  are  several  grades  of  this  product  and  quite  as  many  ways 
to  manufacture  them.  Each  one  of  these  flours  or  meals  (as  most 
millers  insist  upon  calling  them)  has  a particular  character  of  its 


18  HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


own  and  is  therefore  adapted  to  certain  uses  the  other  products  are 
not. 

These  sweet  potato  flours  are  generally  speaking  of  three  kinds. 

1st.  Those  made  from  the  uncooked  potato. 

2nd  Those  made  from  the  cooked  potato. 

3rd  Those  made  from  a careful  system  of  roasting,  or  from  the 
starch  making  process.  The  first  two  will  interest  the  housewife 
most  so,  therefore,  I will  dwell  almost  or  quite  exclusively  on  these. 

FLOUR  NO.  1.  FROM  THE  RAW  POTATO 

Here,  all  that  is  necessary  is  to  wash,  peel  and  slice  the  potatoes 
real  thin,  dry  in  the  sun,  oven  or  dryer  until  the  pieces  are  quite  brit- 
tle, grind  very  fine  in  a clean  coffee  mill,  spice  mill,  or  any  type  of 
mill  that  will  make  wheat  flour  or  corn  meal;  bolt  through  fine  cloth 
in  the  same  way  as  for  other  flours. 

The  fine  flour-like  particles  will  pass  through  and  the  coarse  gran- 
ular meal  left  on  the  bolting  cloths. 

Uses 

This  kind  of  flour  is  fine  for  making  mock  rye  bread,  ginger  snaps, 
wafers,  waffles,  batter  cakes,  custards,  pies,  etc.  Bread  can  be  made 
with  it,  but  it  makes  a dough  deficient  in  elasticity,  bread  dark  in 
color  and  a loaf  which  dries  out  quickly. 

The  coarser  meals  can  be  cooked  in  a great  variety  of  ways  and 
make  very  palatable  dishes;  they  are  to  be  soaked  in  warm  liquid 
(whatever  is  desired  to  cook  them  in),  when  soft  proceed  as  for  grated 
potatoes. 

FLOUR  NO.  2 FROM  COOKED  POTATOES 

h’or  the  making  of  this  flour  the  potatoes  are  boiled,  or  steamed 
(preferably  the  latter)  until  done,  sliced  or  granulated  by  mashing  or 
running  through  a food  chopper  and  dried  until  they  become  very 
brittle,  they  are  made  into  flour  and  meal  exactly  the  same  as  given 
for  Flour  No.  1. 

Uses 

This  kind  of  flour  is  especially  fine  for  bread,  cakes,  pies,  puddings, 
sauce,  gravies,  custards,  etc. 

Indeed,  most  people  consider  a loaf  made  in  the  proportion  of  one- 
third  sweet  potato  flour  to  two-thirds  wheat  flour,  superior  in  flavor 
and  appearance  to  all  wheat  flour. 

Many  experiments  have  proven  that  either  the  mashed  sweet  po- 
tato or  the  sweet  potato  flour  may  be  used  in  bread  up  to  as  high  as 
50%,  but  at  this  point  it  becomes  decidedly  potato-like  in  texture  and 
flavor  but  not  unpalatable  or  unwholesome. 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  THEM  FOR  THE  TABLE  19 


FLOUR  NO.  3.  FROM  PULP 

The  sugar  and  starch  has  been  greatly  reduced.  This  flour  is  made 
from  the  pulp  after  the  starch  has  been  removed,  it  is  dried  without 
cooking,  ground  and  bolted  exactly  the  same  as  recommended  for  the 
other  flours. 

When  made  into  puddings,  pies,  blanc-mange,  etc.,  the  same  as 
shredded  cocoanut,  it  resembles  it  very  much  in  taste  and  texture 
and  is  very  palatable,  and  is  a most  welcome  addition  to  the  dietary. 

It  can  also  be  used  in  the  making  of  bread  and  is  especially  valua- 
ble where  people  object  to  a loaf  with  the  least  bit  of  a sweet  taste, 
also  where  they  wish  one  with  as  little  starch  and  sugar  as  possible. 

SWEET  POTATO  STARCH 
HOUSEHOLD  METHOD 

This  is  very  easily  made,  all  that  is  necessary  is  to  grate  the  po- 
tato, the  finer  the  better,  put  into  a cheese  cloth  or  thin  muslin  bag 
and  dip  up  and  down,  in  a vessel  of  water,  squeezing  occasionally,  con- 
tinue washing  as  long  as  the  washings  are  very  milky. 

Allow  it  to  settle  five  or  six  hours  or  until  the  water  becomes  clear, 
pour  off;  rewash  the  starch,  which  will  be  in  the  bottom  of  the  vessel, 
stir  up  well,  allow  to  settle  again,  pour  off  the  water  and  let  dry, 
keep  the  same  as  any  ordinary  starch. 

Uses 

Use  exactly  the  same  as  corn  starch  in  cooking;  I am  confident  you 
will  find  it  superior  to  corn  starch;  it  makes  a very  fine  quality  of 
library  paste,  and  has  very  powerful  adhesive  qualities. 

In  certain  arts  and  trades  it  is  almost  indispensable. 

SWEET  POTATO  SUGAR 

By  saving  the  water  which  the  pulp  was  washed  in  first,  in  the 
starch  making  process  and  boiling  down,  the  same  as  for  any  syrup, 
a very  palatable,  noncry staline  sugar  will  be  the  result;  this  sugar 
or  syrup  can  be  used  in  many  ways. 

Here  in  the  South  and  other  sections  of  the  country  where  fresh 
sweet  potatoes  can  be  had  almost  or  quite  the  year  round,  the  flour  is 
not  a necessity  for  bread-making;  but  for  commercial  purposes  there 
are  almost  unlimited  possibilities,  and  is  destined  to  become  more  pop- 
ular as  fast  as  the  public  finds  out  what  a delicious,  appetizing  and 
wholesome  product  these  flours  are. 

Our  method  of  using  follows  with  the  hope  that  thousands  of  house- 
wives will  try  out  this  most  satisfactory  way  to  add  something  new, 
wholesome,  attractive  and  economical  to  the  menu. 


20  HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


HOUSEHOLD  RECIPES 
SWEET  POTATO  BREAD 

Take: 

1 cup  finely  mashed  sweet  potatoes; 

2 tablespoons  warm  water; 

V2  yeast  cake; 

1 teaspoon  salt; 

Two  and  % cups  fiour,  or  sufficient  to  make  a soft  dough. 

Add  the  salt  to  the  potatoes,  and  the  yeast;  pour  in  the  water;  add 
flour  enough  to  make  a smooth  sponge  (about  a cupful);  cover  and 
set  in  a warm  place  to  rise. 

When  light  add  the  remainder  of  the  flour  or  whatever  is  needed  to 
make  a smooth  elastic  dough.  Cover  and  let  rise  until  light;  mould; 
shape  into  loaves  or  rolls;  let  rise  and  bake. 

Many  variations  of  the  above  bread  can  be  made  by  adding  sugar, 
butter,  lard,  nuts,  spices,  etc. 

SWEET  POTATO  BISCUITS 

Take: 

V2  cupful  mashed  sweet  potatoes; 

1 cupful  flour; 

4 teaspoons  baking  powder; 
teaspoon  salt; 

2 tablespoons  butter  or  lard. 

Milk  sufficient  to  make  a soft  dough.  Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  baking 
powder  together  several  times;  add  these  to  the  potatoes,  mixing  in 
with  a knife. 

Now  work  the  fat  into  the  mixture  lightly;  add  the  milk;  work 
quickly  and  lightly  until  a soft  dough  is  formed;  turn  out  on  a flour- 
ed board;  pat  and  roll  out  lightly  until  about  one-half  inch  thick;  cut 
into  biscuits;  place  on  buttered  or  greased  pans,  and  bake  twelve  or 
fifteen  minutes  in  a quick  oven. 

SWEET  POTATO  BISCUITS  NO.  2 (EXTRA  FINE) 

Take: 

1 cup  boiled  and  finely  mashed  sweet  potatoes; 

2 eggs,  well  beaten; 

2 cups  flour; 

2 teaspoons  baking  powder; 

1 teaspoon  salt; 

2 scant  tablespoons  melted  butter  or  lard; 

1 tablespoon  sugar  (if  desired); 

2 cups  milk. 

Mix  together  all  the  dry  ingredients  and  stir  into  the  milk,  beaten 
eggs  and  potato. 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  THEM  FOR  THE  TABLE  21 


If  toQ  soft,  add  more  flour,  sufficient  to  make  a soft  dough.  Roll 
out  lightly;  cut  with  a biscuit  cutter;  bake  in  a quick  oven. 

SWEET  POTATO  BREAD  (BAKER’S  METHOD) 

This  recipe  was  given  me  by  Mr.  J.  M.  Colter,  who  had  charge  of 
the  Institute’s  Bakery. 

Take: 

70  pounds  of  wheat  flour; 

30  pounds  of  finely  mashed  sweet  potatoes; 

40  pounds  of  water; 

1V2  pounds  of  salt; 

1 pound  of  sugar; 

1 pound  of  lard; 

1 pound  of  compressed  yeast. 

Every  other  operation  is  exactly  the  same  as  for  bread  or  rolls  made 
from  all  wheat  flour. 

Mr.  W.  T.  Shehee,  former  Steward  of  the  Boarding  Department,  says 
it  not  only  gives  universal  satisfaction,  but  is  preferred  by  many  to 
bread  or  rolls  made  from  all  wheat  flour. 

I have  very  briefly  and  imperfectly  touched  upon  the  many  possibil- 
ities of  the  sweet  potato.  I trust  that  Macon  County  will  take  the 
lead  in  developing  the  almost  limitless  possibilities  of  this  splendid 
crop  and  show  its  relation  to  the  dairy  industry,  beef  production,  starch 
mills  and  that  it  is  the  most  important  and  useful  of  all  our  root 
crops  for  the  feeding  of  farm  animals. 


‘i  ; r. 

.1  -Hi 


'i, 


V 'V-  ■: 

, . ■ '"  T.  ^-’ ■■■•  ■ .'j  : ' .-.  » ■ i"|'’;  ' " *?i'  " . ■ ‘‘i- 


ff 


mp 


.'  : ■ ••  .•4--  ‘.4.V' 

■ ■•  ■ ■ ' ' ir  ■ ■ 


I . •■'  ''i' 


i.\  -.  , ' /h''  ',  , 


, ir  ’-. 


i-V-4-  ' ' . •>/ 


, V':.; ._, 

•j  i*!  ^ ■ •"  ': . • ' 


.k.-  ~,.*f  ?■ 


\ . vM*- ■ - v> 

• ""  „ V 

• . 5 ‘ 

A »'  ; ■ 

■ '.■  '^T- "'V'  , ■ 

T;.v'-V;  ’■ 

i 


I T 


. >,■. 

V 


i/  n'  ^ 


, ■:•*  f ,»<;;■ 
■.t.:-''U.k 


<5v  ■■ 

■■  ■ ■ 
■!s  ■ "■ 


V'li  '■ 


;’;;/':r». 


