Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


TUSKEGEE  INSTITUTE,  ALA. 


BULLETIN  INO.  13  ^ 

1908  \ 

Experiment  Station  1 

i 

TUSKEGEE  NORMAL  & INDUSTRIAL  INSTITUTE  i 

e) 

s 
s 

j. 

s 

I 

i 
i 
i 
i 
i 
i 


How  to  Cook  Cow  Peas 

REVISED  AND  REPRINTED 


By 

G.  W.  CARVER 


TUSKEGEE  INST,,  ALA. 

TUSKEGEE  NORMAL  AND  INDUSTRIAL  INSTITUTE 


i 


The  Tuskegee  Experiment  Station 


Board  of  Regents 

Mr.  Chas.  Coleman  Thatch,  President Auburn,  Ala. 

Hon.  J.  A.  Wilktnson Montgomery,  Ala. 

Mr.  W.  W.  Campbell.  .Tuskegee,  Ala. 

Mr.  Charles  W.  Hare Tuskegee,  Ala. 

Mr.  A.  J.  Wilborn ...  Tuskegee,  Ala. 

Mr.  Booker  T.  Washington.  Tuskegee  Institute,  Ala. 

Mr.  Warren  Logan . . .Tuskegee  Institute,  Ala. 

STATION  STAFF 


G.  W.  Carver,  M.  S.  Agr Director 

George  R.  Bridgeforth Director  of  Agricultural  Industries 

R.  A.  Clark.  . . .Assistant  to  Director  of  Agricultural  Industries 

T.  N.  Cowan.  .....  Farm  Superintendent 

E.  F.  Colson .First  Assistant  to  the  Farm  Superintendent 

John  P.  Powell  . . .Second  Assistant  to  the  Farm  Superintendent 

H.  H.  Wheeler  Dairy  Herd 

R.  S.  Pompey  .Assistant  to  the  Dairy  Herdsman 

C.  W.  Greene.  . Truck  Garden 

C.  S.  Woodard  Beef  Herd 

*Charles  McCune  .......  . Dairyman 

William  B.  Williams  Poultry  Raising 

W.  A.  Tate Assistant  to  H.  H.  Wheeler 

Martin  Van  Darthard.  . . .Care  and  Management  of  Horses 

and  Mules 

R.  R.  Robinson,  Assistant  in  the  Care  and  Management  of 

...........  Horses  and  Mules 

Thomas  M.  Campbell,  Demonstrative  and  Farmers’  Institute 

Work 

R.  L.  Waggener  ....  Farm  Mechanic 

E.  L.  Falkner  .......  Fruit  Growing 

L.  J.  Watkins.  .......... .Road  Building  and  Construction  Work 

E.  E.  Vaughn  ....  Stenographer 

*Part  of  Term 


The  Tuskegee  Agricultural  Experiment 

Station 


| Bulletin  No.  13.  | | august,  1908  | 

HOW  TO  COOK  COW  PEAS 
G.  W.  Carver,  M.  S.  Agr.,  Director. 

Since  the  publication  of  this  bulletin  the  applications  for  it 
have  steadily  increased  until  the  output  of  1,500  has  been  exhaust- 
ed and  the  demand  unsupplied ; and  with  this  apology  it  was 
thought  wise  to  republish  it. 

The  popularity  of  the  cow  pea  is  increasing  from  every  point 
of  view  from  year  to  year.  Some  one  has  wisely  said  that  as  a 
crop,  cow  peas  are  to  the  South  what  clover  is  to  the  North,  and 
alfalfa  to  the  West.  And  we  trust  that  the  time  is  not  far  dis- 
tant, when,  as  an  article  of  human  food,  the  pea  itself  will  be  to 
the  South  what  the  Boston,  Navy  and  White  soup  beans  are  to 
the  East  and  West. 

In  1889  South  Carolina  produced  698,281  bushels.  In  18991,162,- 
705  bushels,  which  represents  an  increase  of  66.5  per  cent.  Georgia, 
in  1889,  produced  274,670  bushels.  In  1899,  1,130,441  bushels,  an 
increase  of  16  per  cent.  North  Carolina  increased  its  output 
during  the  same  period  of  years  to  100.4  per  cent.  Alabama,  103 
per  cent. ; Florida,  126.3  per  cent. ; Mississippi,  132  per  cent. ; Ken- 
tucky, 883.9  per  cent. ; Virginia,  1,003.2  per  cent. 

The  average  yield  per  acre  in  1899  varied  as  follows:  Maximum, 
28.5  bushels,  minimum,  6.8  bushels.  The  above  increased  per- 
centage of  yield  in  the  various  states  indicate  that  the  farmers  are 
beginning  to  appreciate  in  a tangible  way  the  value  of  this  crop. 

Cow-pea  hay  as  compared  with  red  clover  ranks  thus: 


FLESH,  FAT  AND  MILK  FORMERS  IN  100  POUNDS  OF 
AIR-DRY  SUBSTANCE 


4!  S 

ft  R 
ft  o 

DIGESTIBLE 

NUTRIENTS 

TOTAL  NUTRIENTS 

PROTEIN 

FATS,  ETHE] 
EXTRAC 

NITROGEN,  F 
EXTRA' 

ft 

ft 

ft 

s 

* SI 

w 

Q 

5 

O 

ft 

ft 

H 

O 

ft 

ft 

§ 

◄ 

ft 

NITROGEN, 
FREE  EX- 
TRACT 

RED  CLOVER  HAY 

12.50 

2.43 

40.43 

26.81 

6.17 

1.03 

23.28 

12.73 

COW  PEA  VINE  HAY 

14.43 

2.49 

41.42 

21.54 

9.31 

1.24 

29.14 

9.24 

DIFFERENCE  IN  FA- 
VOR OF  THE  COW  PEA 

1.93 

.06 

.79 

3.14 

.21 

6.06 

4 


From  the  above  table  we  can  readily  see  that  cow  pea-vine  hay 
stands  higher  in  actual  composition  and  digestible  nutrients 
than  red  clover  hay. 

VAEIETIES 

There  are  a great  many  so-called  varieties  of  the  cow  pea, 
many  or  all  possessing  some  special  merit  of  value  in  the  partic- 
ular localities  where  they  originated.  As  many  of  these  varieties 
are  undoubtedly  crosses,  they  range  in  color  from  almost  pure 
white  to  jet  black,  together  with  red,  brown,  speckled  and  spotted 
varieties.  A large  number  of  these  varieties  have  b°en  tested  for  a 
series  of  years  here  at  the  Station  with  the  following  results: 

The  small  black-eyed  Lady  pea  and  the  New  Era  prove  the 
best  for  early  planting.  I wish  to  especially  recommend  the  New 
Era,  as  it  is  early  and  prolific. 

The  speckled,  black,  and  iron  come  next.  The  Iron  pea  de- 
serves special  mention  as  it  is  a vigorous  grower,  heavy  fruiter 
and  resists  the  wilt  with  impunity.  When  cut  the  stubble  has  a 
strong  tendency  to  sprout  out  and  make  a second  crop.  For  rank 
heavy  vines  there  seems  to  be  none  equal  to  the  Unknown,  but 
it  is  occasionally  a shy  bearer  with  us. 

Every  farmer  shou  d plant  at  least  four  varieties  every  year, 
for  the  reason  that  some  years  one  variety  will  fail  and  another 
will  succeed. 

During  our  experimentation,  we  have  never  ki  own  all  of  these 
varieties  to  fail  the  same  year:  New  Era,  Black,  Whipporwill, 

Iron  and  Unknown. 

Every  progressive  farmer  recognizes  that  certain  crops  exhaust 
or  make  his  soil  poorer,  and  certain  others  build  it  up  or  make  it 
richer.  He  is  also  aware  that  a better  crop  follows  a pod-bearing 
one  such  as  peas,  beans,  clovers,  vetches,  peanuts,  etc.;  therefore 
they  are  absolutely  indispensible  in  a wise  crop  rotation,  and  in 
the  rational  feeding  of  both  man  and  beast. 

The  fertilizing  value  of  these  plants  is  due  mainly  to  the  rela- 
tionship existing  between  certain  germs  in  the  soil  and  the 
free  nitrogen  of  the  air,  they  being  the  only  reccgnized  class  hav- 
ing the  po  ver  to  extract  and  utilize  this  nitrogen  from  the  air  and 
convert  it  into  a class  of  substances  in  the  plant  known  as  “Al- 
buminoids,” which,  when  consumed  by  the  animal,  are  convert- 
ed into  milk,  wool,  hair,  hoofs,  horns  and  muscular  tissue  (lean 
meat). 

As  yet,  none  bids  fair  to  equal — much  less  excel — in  the  num- 
ber of  really  good  points,  those  of  our  old  trusty  cow  pea,  in  its 
many  varieties.  A number  of  investigations  throughout  the 
country  have  shown  quite  conclusively  that  every  acre  of  well- 
grown  alfalfa  can  be  made  to  deposit  forty-three  dollars  worth  of 
nitrogen  in  the  soil;  one  acre  of  cow  peas,  twenty-five  dollars;  one 
acre  of  red  clover,  fifteen  dollars.  The  above  is  in  addition  to 


5 


their  feeding  value,  deducting — say  one  fifth — for  the  amount 
fixed  in  the  animal's  body. 

While  the  cow  pea  does  not  rank  as  high  as  a nitrogen  gatherer 
-as  alfalfa,  we  must  admit  that  the  plant  is  yet  to  be  found  that 
furnishes  as  much  nutritious  and  palatable  food  as  the  cow  pea  for 
Jboth  man  and  beast. 

4 FOOD 

As  a food  for  man,  it  may  be  prepared  in  a sufficient  number  of 
ways  to  suit  the  most  fastidious  palate. 

From  the  following  table  below  we  see  that  it  compares  most 
favorably,  in  points  of  nutrition,  with  the  much  prized  Boston 
bean. 


WATEE  j 

PROTEIN 

(Muscle 

Builders) 

CAREOHYD  RATES 

(Fat  Formers) 

CALORIES 

(Heat 

Units) 

Boston  Bean 

12.6 

22  5 

59.6 

1.605  . 

Cow  Pea 

13.0 

21.4 

1 

.60.8 

1.590 

COOKING 


We  take  pleasure  in  submitting  below  thirty-two  recipes 
which  have  been  carefully  tested  as  to  their  value,  and  I am  sure 
will  be  found  helpful  in  the  preparation  of  this  delicious  vegeta-. 
ble : 

(1) 

BOILED  PEAS  WITH  BACON 
Wash  the  desired  quantity  of  peas  to  be  cooked  in  cold  water, 
put  in  iron  pot  or  stew-pan,  cover  with  cold  water,  drop  in  a piece 
of  fat  bacon,  boil  slowly  until  tender;  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
if  the  bacon  is  not  sufficiently  salty  to  supply  the  required  amount 
of  salt;  then  simmer  slowly  until  ready  to  serve.  A small  piece 
of  butter  will  add  greatly  to  their  flavor, 

(2) 

BAKED  PEAS 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  boiling;  when  half  done  pour  into  the 
baking  pan,  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  to  every  pint  of  peas, 
add  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a pinch  of  sugar;  scar  the 
piece  of  bacon  and  half  bury  it  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  cook 
slowly  until  thoroughly  done  and  a delicate  brown;  serve  either 
hot  or  cold. 

(B) 

CREAMED  PEAS  (Delicious) 

Soak  one  pint  of  peas  in  cold  water  over  night  or  until  the  hulls 
rub  off  easily,  free  them  from  the  skins  by  rubbing  them  between 
the  hands;  continue  washing  in  cold  water  until  all  of  the  skins 
are  removed;  put  in  vessel  to  cook  (porcelain  or  granite  stew-pan 
preferable),  with  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  boil  slowly 


6 


until  thoroughly  done,  pass  through  a colander,  season  with  a 
scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a pinch  of  pepper,  one-half  a teacup  of 
pure  cream,  a heaping  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar,  or  two  of  syrup; 
a small  piece  of  butter  may  be  added  if  not  rich  enough ; whip  the 
same  as  for  creamed  potatoes,  serve  hot. 

(D 

GRIDDLE  CAKE  No.  1 

Mix  together  one  cup  of  boiling  milk,  one-half  cup  of  cream, 
one  cup  of  pea  meal — which  has  been  previously  soaked  in  cold 
water  for  one  half-hour  and  boil  until  thoroughly  done — one  ta- 
blespoonful of  butter,  the  same  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  beaten  egg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and 
one  cup  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a stiff  batter.  Cook  in  grid- 
dle pans  and  serve  while  hot. 

Note: — It  improves  the  lightness  to  whip  vigorously  before 
stirring  in  the  baking  powder.  Sour  milk  and  soda  can  be  used 
the  same  as  for  other  griddle  cakes. 

(o) 

ALABAMA  BAKED  (Delicious) 

Hull  the  peas  the  same  as  recommended  for  creaming,  put  in 
small  piece  of  fat  pork,  boil  the  peas  until  about  half  done,  pour 
into  baking  dish,  season  to  taste  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  put 
fcablespoonful  of  sugar  to  every  quart  of  peas;  put  in  oven,  cook 
slowly  until  well  done  and  brown;  serve  hot  or  cold. 

(6) 

HOPPING  JOHN 

Take  one  quart  of  peas  and  a scant  pint  of  rice,  boil  the  two 
separately  until  both  are  nearly  done,  turn  the  two  together  and 
season  with  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a walnut,  a pinch  of  pepper 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  (If  bacon  is  desired,  put  one-half 
pound  into  peas  when  first  put  on  to  cook.  The  salt  in  this 
case  should  be  omitted.)  A beef  bone  can  be  used  instead  of  ba- 
con, if  desired,  and,  to  my  mind,  adds  much  to  the  flavor.  (Doub- 
ble  the  salt  in  this  case  or  proportion  it  to  the  size  of  the  bone.) 

(7) 

BOILED  GREEN  PEAS 

Select  those  that  are  about  two-thirds  grown;  do  not  shell  un- 
til ready  to  cook;  wash  in  cold  water  and  drain  them,  cover  with 

NOTE  [AJ— Tastes  differ  so  widely  as  to  pepper  and  salt  that  it  has  been 
thought  wise  not  to  specify  the  amounts  to  be  used  in  these  recipes,  except 
in  a few  instances. 

NOTE  rB]  — I wish  to  thank  the  following  members  of  the  Senior  Class  in 
Agricultural  Chemistry  for  practically  testing  and  verifying  the  value  of 
nearly  all  of  these  recipes: 

Misses  Sarah  Woodall,  Bessie  Warrick,  Clara  Johnson  and  Lucy  Hill; 
Messrs.  R.  B.  Woodford,  Charles  Stevens,  William  H.  Crutcher,  George  K. 
Gordon  and  Jesse  J.  Jones. 


7 


* boiling  water  and  add  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar  to 
every  quart  of  peas.  Salt  to  taste. 

When  tender  pour  into  a colander  and  drain;  put  them  into  a 
vegetable  dish,  and  quite  in  the  center  of  the  peas  put  a lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  a walnut  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  thick 
cream;  garnish  with  mint  and  parsley,  serve  hot. 

Caltion:  Do  not  gather  or  shell  this  delicious  vegetable 
^ long  before  it  is  dressed,  or  much  of  the  delicate  flavor  will  be 

lost. 

(8) 

PLAIN  PEA  PUDDING 

Soak  one-half  pint. of  split  peas  over  night;  put  in  an  earthen 
dish,  cover  with  hot  water,  add  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter^ 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  cook  thoroughly  done  and  brown; 
garnish  with  parsley  and  serve. 

GRIDDLE  CAKES  No.  2 

Boil  the  desired  quantity  of  half  ripe  peas  until  tender,  mash 
to  a pulp  and  pass  through  a strainer;  to  every  cupful  of  strained 
peas  add  one  of  boiling  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
heaping  t^blespoonful  of  sugar,  and  when  sufficiently  cool,  one 
egg  well  beaten;  then  stir  i ■ one  cupful  of  flour,  which  has  had 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  mixed  into  it  by  passing  sev- 
eral times  through  a sieve.  If  the  batter  is  too  thick,  add  a little 
milk;  if  too  thin,  a little  flour.  Bake  on  a hot  griddle  and  serve 
hot  with  syrup. 

(9) 

A DISH  FOR  DISPEPTXCS 

Peas  are  deliciously  prepared  without  grease  of  any  kind,  as  fol- 
lows: Hull  the  same  as  recommended  for  creaming;  choose  the 
large  white  crowders;  boil  slowly  in  soft  water  in  a covered  vessel 
for  several  hours,  or  until  the  peas  begin  to  fall  to  pieces,  and  the 
water  (which  should  barely  fill  the  peas  when  done,  and  not  stand 
above  them)  is  viscid  and  jelly-like.  Add  a little  salt  and  noth- 
ing else,  unless  at  the  proper  time  you  have  chosen  to  put  in  a 
few  sweet  or  Irish  potatoes  to  eat  with  them.  Many  stomachs  can 
retain  and  digest  them  in  this  way,  when  they  could  not  do  so  in 
any  other. 

(10) 

PEA  SOUP  WITH  CELERY 

One-quarter  pound  each  of  onions,  carrots,  or  parsnips,  two 
ounces  of  celery,  three-quarter  pound  of  split  peas,  a little  mint, 
shreded  fine,  one  teaspoonful  of  coarse  brown  sugar,  salt  and 

* pepper  to  taste,  four  quarts  of  water  or  liquor  in  which  a joint  of 
meat  has  been  boiled.  Fry  the  vegetable  for  ten  minutes  in  a 
little  butter  or  drippings,  previously  cutting  them  up  in  small 


8 


pieces;  pour  the  water  on  them,  and  when  boiling  add  the  peas. 
Let  them  simmer  until  thoroughly  done.  Add  the  sugar,  season- 
ing anc^  mint,  boil  for  a quarter  of  an  hour  and  serve. 

(ID 

PEAS  IN  THE  POD 

Top  and  tail  with  a sharp  knife,  cut  in  short  pieces  and  cook 
tender,  add  a little  salt  while  cooking,  drain,  butter  freely  and 
season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  at  this  point  a half  teacup  of 
sweet  cream  to  every  quart  of  peas  will  greatly  improve  the  flavor. 
Let  simmer  twenty  minutes  and  serve. 

(12) 

PEAS  IN  THE  POD  WITH  PORK 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  the  above;  parboil  in  water  made 
slightly  salty,  for  fifteen  minutes,  drain  off  the  water,  add  a piece 
of  fat  salt  pork,  two  or  three  inches  square,  cook  slowly  until  soft, 
take  out  the  pork  and  season  with  pepper  and  serve. 

(13) 

BOSTON  BAKED  PEAS 

Take  a quart  of  large  white  peas,  put  in  a stew  pan  and  cover 
with  lukewarm  water,  place  on  the  back  of  the  range  early  in  the 
morning;  at  noon,  if  the  heat  has  been  sufficient,  they  will  be 
slightly  soft  to  the  pressure;  now  have  ready  an  earthen  bean  pot, 
which  comes  for  the  purpose;  put  a pound  of  uncooked  salt  pork 
in  the  botton  of  the  jar,  add  pepper  only  as  it  will  receive  salt 
enough  from  the  pork ; add  one  large  tablespoonful  of  New  Orleans 
molasses  to  give  a fine  color,  fill  with  water  and  set  in  a moderate 
oven  and  bake  slowly  for  six  hours,  occasionally  adding  hot  water, 
if  necessary,  to  keep  moist. 

(14) 

CROQUETTES 

Season  cold  mashed  peas  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg;  beat  to  a 
cream  with  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  to  every  cupful  of  peas ; 
add  two  or  three  well  beaten  eggs  and  some  minced  parsley,  roll 
into  small  ball  and  dip  in  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crams  or 
cracker  dust,  fry  a rich  brown  in  hot  lard,  drain  and  serve  while 
hot. 

(15) 

GREEN  PEA  SOUP 

Put  two  quarts  of  green  peas  with  four  quarts  of  water,  boil 
two  hours,  renewing  waste  by  adding  boiling  water  when  needed ; 
strain  from  liquor,  return  that  to  pot,  rub  the  peas  through  sieve? 
chop  an  onion  fine  and  small  sprig  of  mint,  and  one  of  parsley, 
let  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  stir  a teaspoonful  of  flour  into  two 


9 


stir  carefully  into  the  boiling  soup.  Serve  with  well  buttered  sip- 
pets of  toasted  bread. 

(16) 

PLAIN  PEA  SOUP 

Take  one  quart  of  hulled  peas,  boil  until  perfectly  soft,  allow- 
ing four  quarts  of  water  to  one  of  peas,  mash  peas,  add  flour  and 
butter  rubbed  together,  also  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  cut  coll 
bread  into  small  pieces,  toast  and  drop  into  soup,  with  a bit  of 
minced  parsley. 

(17) 

PEA  SOUP  NO.  2 

Put  in  a sauce-pan  two  ounces  of  bacon  chopped  fine,  six  onions, 
peeled  and  chopped,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  add  four  quarts  of 
hot  water ; boil  twenty  minutes;  meantime  rub  through  sieve  a 
quart  of  peas  that  have  been  previously  boiled,  add  them  to  the 
first  ingredients,  boil  one  hour  longer  and  serve  hot. 

(18) 

PEA  BOUILLON 

Take  six  pounds  of  round  of  beef,  three  small  carrots,  three 
turnips,  nine  small  onions,  one  large  onion  stuck  with  four  cloves, 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  two  pints  of  peas  (one  shelled,  the  other 
in  pod),  one  small  head  of  cabbage,  three  large  tomatoes,  four 
quarts  of  water,  pepper,  salt,  flour,  noodle  , rice  or  sago;  put  beef 
into  the  water  whole,  and  heat  slowly  to  a boil;  skim,  dip  out  a 
pint  of  the  liquor  left  with  the  beef  and  put  by  for  the  cooking 
of  the  vegetables;  add  to  the  liquor  left  with  the  beef  one  sliced 
carrot,  one  turnip,  also  sliced,  the  large  onion  and  the  herbs;  stew 
slowly  four  hours,  take  out  the  beef  and  keep  hot  over  boiling 
water;  strain  the  soup,  pulping  the  vegetables,  cool,  skim  and 
return  to  the  fire,  and  when  it  heats,  add  noodles,  boiled  r:ce  or 
soaked  German  sago ; simmer  five  minutes,  pour  into  hot  soup 
tureen  and  serve. 

(19) 

PEA  MEAL  SOUP 

*An  almost  endless  variety  of  delicious  soups  can  be  easily 
and  quickly  made  by  thickening  any  soup  stock  with  pea  meal 
(browned  or  unbrowned),  permitting  the  same  to  cook  slowly  until 
the  meal  is  done. 

(20) 

FRITTERS 

One  cup  of  pea  meal,  previously  soaked  and  simmered  until 
done,  one  pint  of  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of.  salt,  three  eggs, 
one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  to  the  cold 
peas  add  the  yelks  of  eggs,  sugar,  butter  and  salt,  also  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  which  have  been  previously  whipped  to  a drop;  froth 


♦Note— Pea  meal  can  be  made  by  grinding  the  peas  in  a new  or  well  cleaned 
coffee  mill.  For  brown  pea  meal  the  peas  are  simply  roasted  before  grinding. 


10 


of  batter,  add  a pinch  of  pepper  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 
in  spoonfuls  in  plenty  of  lard,  made  hot  for  the  purpose;  fry  a rich 
brown,  serve  with  cream  or  lemon  sauce.  If  inclined  to  fall  to 
pieces,  add  a little  flour  to  the  batter. 

(21) 

SUCCOTASH 

Take  one  pint  of  large  white  peas  aftrr  they  have  been  hulled 
and  cook  tender,  cut  off  the  grains  from  eight  ears  of  corn,  add 
one  large  tablespoonful  of  floured  butter,  two  of  thick  ream, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  add  one  cup  of  milk ; boil  corn  and  peas 
until  bo^h  are  thoroughly  done,  add  the  milk  ; when  this  boils,  add 
the  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  simmer  ten  minutes  and  serve. 

(22) 

PEA  SALAD 

Take  a scant  quart  of  large  white  peas,  after  they  have  been 
hulled  and  thoroughly  cooked,  put  into  a salad  dish  a d season  as 
follows:  To  two  tabl^spoonfuls  of  best  salad  oil,  add  one-half  tea- 

spoonful of  sugar,  same  of  pepper,  made  mustard  and  salt,  and 
about  the  same  of  Royal  celery  salt;  rub  to  smooth  paste,  and 
whip  in,  teaspoonful  at  a time,  five  teaspoonfuls  of  best  vinegar: 
when  thoroughly  mixed,  pour  upon  salad  and  serve. 

(23) 

SALAD  NO.  2 

Prepare  peas  the  same  as  for  the  above;  to  one  quart  add  two- 
thirds  of  a cup  of  sour  cream,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  season  to 
taste  with  sugar,  a pinch  of  salt  and  mustard;  a couple  of  stalks 
of  celery  should  be  chopped  and  added  to  it,  or  a tablespoonful  of 
celery  seed.  This  is  very  flue  and  most  excellent  for  picnics. 

(24) 

ROAST  PORK  WITH  PEAS 

Choose  a leg  of  fine  young  pork,  cut  a slice  in  the  knuckle  with 
a sharp  knife  and  fill  the  space  with  sa..e,  pepper,  salt  and  an 
onion  chopped:  when  half  done  score  the  skin  in  slices,  but  do 

not  cut  deeper  than  the  outer  rind;  let  cook  until  nearly  done, 
pour  off  the  excess  of  fat,  add  one  quart  of  white  peas  that  have 
been  previously  hulled,  and  cook  slowly  until  all  is  quite  done 
and  brown.  Serve  with  apple  sauce. 

(25) 

PEA  COFFEE 

Brown  some  peas  in  the  oven  the  same  as  for  green  coffee.  To 
a given  quantity  (the  strength  desired  determining  this)  add  one- 
third  pure  coffee,  boil  and  clarify  the  same  as  for  the  other  coffee. 
Some  like  it  just  as  well  to  leave  out  the  pure  coffee  altogether. 


11 


(26) 

FRNCH  PEAS 

Soak,  hull,  and  parboil  one  quart  of  shelled  peas  until  tender, 
drain,  add  boiling  water  enough  to  keep  from  burning,  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter,  one  whole  onion  ; one-half  handful  of  parsley- 
tied;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  cook  slowly  for  an  hour;  when 
ready  to  serve,  take  out  the  onion  and  parsley,  add  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter  and  a teacup  of  thick  cream,  into  which  a table- 
spoonful of  flour,  has  been  stirred,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sug- 
ar, boil  until  thick  and  serve  hot. 

(27) 

GRANADA  STEW 

Boil  a four-pound  soup  bone  until  all  of  the  meat  drops  from  the 
bones,  free  from  the  liquor  all  of  the  bones,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  parsley,  one  pint  of  white 
potatoes,  one  pint  of  sweet  potatoes,  three  stalks  of  celery  chop- 
ped fine,  and  one  pint  of  peas;  mince  the  meat  and  cook  all  to- 
gether until  the  vegetables  are  thoroughly  tender;  serve  hot. 

(28) 

PEA  CHOWDER 

Take  one  pint  of  raw  sweet  corn,  one  pint  of  green  peas,  cut 
each  row  of  kernels  and  scrape  the  raw  corn  from  the  cob.  Slice 
and  add  a pint  of  white  po- atoes  to  the  wate’’  in  which  the  scraped 
cobs  have  been  previously  boiled.  Cook  until  the  potatoes  are 
nearly  done,  add  the  corn  and  th°>  peas  which  have  been  previous- 
ly cooked  until  quite  ender  (do  not  add  the  water  in  which  the 
peas  were  cooked).  Add  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  pint  of 
milk  and  one-half  pint  of  cream,  into  which  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour  have  been  mixed;  add  corn  and  milk,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  return  to  the  fire  and  boil  five  minutes,  remove  from  the 
fire.  Mince  and  add  the  whites  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  also  the 
yelks  after  rubbing  through  a strainer.  Serve  hot  with  buttered 
croutons. 

(29) 

CHOW  CHOW  OF  PEAS 

Take  one  quart  of  tender  peas  in  the  pod,  one  quart  of  shelled 
green  peas,  one  quart  of  green  tomatoes  chopped,  one  quart  of 
chopped  onions,  one  pint  of  chopped  peppers  (half  green  and  half 
ripe),  half  cup  of  white  mustard  seed,  half  cup  of  salt,  four  stalks 
of  celery  chopped  fine.  Add  sugar  and  curry  powder  to  taste.  The 
peas  should  be  put  into  cold  water  and  brought  to  a boil,  drop  in 
a lump  of  soda  the  size  of  a pea,  boil  until  about  one-third  cook- 
ed, drain  water  off  thoroughly,  wash  in  cold  water,  drain  and 
chop  before  adding  the  other  ingredients.  Cover  with  cold  vino- 
gar. 


12 


(30)  * 

CHARTREUSE  OF  PEAS 

Line  a plain  mould  or  tin  basin  (the  desired  size)  with  thin 
slices  of  raw  bacon;  have  prepared  some  half- boiled  snap  peas, 
carrots  and  turnips.  Cut  the  latter  into  small  slices  and  distrib- 
ute them  around  the  edges  and  the  bottom  of  the  pan  about  an 
inch  thick;  fill  up  the  middle  with  some  chopped  veal  or  what 
is  still  better  half  and  half  of  chopped  veal  and  fresh  pork  thor-  * 

oughly  mixed  together,  after  seasoning  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper 
and  a da«h  of  sage.  Put  a plate  over  the  top  of  the  mould,  tie  a 
clot  1 over  that,  and  put  into  a steamer  and  steam  for  an  hour 
and  a half.  Turn  out  on  a platter  and  serve  with  cream  of  white 
sauce. 

* (31) 

BAKED  PEA  SOUP 

Take  cold  baked  peas,  add  twice  the  quantity  of  cold  water, 
and  let  them  simmer  until  soft.  When  done  add  half  as  much  stew- 
ed tomatoes.  Rub  all  through  a puree  strainer.  Add  more  water 
until  the  right  consistency,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  a 
little  vinegar  and  mustard. 

(32) 

ROASTED  PEAS 

Take  peas  when  the  pods  have  just  begun  to  turn  yellow;  put 
in  moderate  oven  until  thoroughly  roasted.  Serve  the  sa  re  as 
for  roasted  peanuts. 


