Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


O E.  S.  LiBRAftt, 

JUN  23  1908 


BULLETIN  INO.  1 2 

1907 


SAVING  THE  WILD  PLUM  CROP 

Tuskegee  Normal  and  Industrial  Institute 

■ 

EXPERIMENT  STATION 

Tuskegee  Institute,  Alabama 


By 

G.  UU.  CARVER,  M.  S.  Agr, 


» 


THE  TUSKEGEE  EXPERIMENT  STATION 

Board  of  Regents 


Mr.  Chas.  Coleman  Thatch,  President  Auburn,  Ala. 

Hon.  J.  A.  Wilkinson  Montgomery,  Ala. 

Mr.  W.  W.  Campbell  Tuskegee,  Ala. 

Mr.  Charles  W.  Hare  Tuskegee,  Ala. 

Mr.  A.  J.  Wilborn  Tuskegee,  Ala. 

Mr.  Booker  T.  Washington  Tuskegee  Institute,  Ala. 

Mr.  Warren  Logan  Tuskegee  Institute,  Ala. 


STATION  STAFF 


G.  W.  Carver,  M.  S.  Agr.  Director 

George  R.  Bridgeforth Director  of  Agricultural  Industries 

T.  N.  Cowan  Farm  Superintendent 

E.  F.  Colson  First  Assistant  to  the  Farm  Superintendent 

John  P.  Powell  Second  Assistant  to  the  Farm  Superintendent 

George  W.  Owens  Dairy  Herd 

C.  W.  Greene  Truck  Garden 

C.  S.  Woodard  Beef  Herd 

*F.  A.  Green  Dairyman 

William  B.  Williams  Poultry  Raising 

W.  A.  Tate  Assistant  to  G.  W.  Owens 

Martin  Van  Darthard  ....  Care  and  Management  of  Horses  and  Mules 
R.  R.  Robinson,  Assistant  in  the  Care  and  Management  of  Horses 

and  Mules 

Thomas  M.  Campbell Demonstrative  and  Farmers’  Institute  Work 

R.  L.  Waggener  Farm  Mechanic 

E.  L.  Falicner  Fruit  Growing 


* Part  of  Term. 


f 


♦ 

I 


I 


THE  TUSKEGEE  AGRICULTURAL  EXPERIMENT  STATION 


| Bulletin  No.  12  I | June.  D07  | 

SAVING  THE  WILD  PLUM  CROP 

By  G.  W.  CARVER.  M.  S.  Agr., 

Director 

Nature  endows  or  blesses  each  state  or  section  with  an  indigenous  flora 
and  fauna  best  suited  to  that  particular  soil  and  climatic  conditions. 

Applying  the  above  to  Alabama,  Macon  and  adjoining  counties  have 
been  unusally  blessed  in  the  quantity,  variety  and  quality  of  its  wild  plums. 
They  vary  in  size  from  a half  to  one  inch  in  diameter,  and  in  flavor  from 
sugary  sweetness  to  sour  and  bitter.  In  color,  from  lemon  yellow  to  crim- 
son, scarlet  and  black,  making  possibilities  for  many  pleasing  combina- 
tions for  the  eye  and  palate. 

I feel  safe  in  saying  that  in  Macon  County  alone  there  are  many  hundred 
bushels  of  plums  that  go  to  waste  every  year  that  there  is  a full  crop, 
which  is  almost  one  year  with  another. 

In  a commercial  way  there  is  a great  opportunity  for  jam  and  jelly  fac- 
tories. 

No  fruit  improves  with  cultivation  more  satisfactorily  than  the  wild 
plum,  both  the  size  and  flavor  is  improved,  and  under  cultivation  some  of 
the  yellow  and  red  types  compare  favorably  in  size  with  the  Wild  Goose 

and  other  cultivated  varieties  of  that  class. 

* 

No  fruit  makes  more  delicious  jams,  jellies,  preserves,  marmalades,  etc., 
and  it  is  the  purpose  of  this  bulletin  to  set  forth  in  a practical  way  a num- 
ber of  recipes  by  which  every  housewife  may  be  successful  in  the  saving 
of  this  splendid  article  of  food.  (Note.) 

Note: — Berry’s  Fruit  Recipes  have  offered  many  valuable  suggestions, 
and  I hereby  wish  to  gratefully  acknowledge  assistance. 

CANNED  PLUMS. 

These  may  be  used  for  puddings,  pies,  sauces,  tarts,  desserts,  etc. 

Select  firm  but  well  ripened  fruit,  prick  the  skin  in  several  places  to 
prevent  bursting  when  cooked.  Use  pound  for  pound  of  sugar  and  fruit 
where  an  especially  rich  sauce  is  wanted,  or  eight  quarts  of  plums  and  two 
quarts  of  sugar  can  be  used.  Add  just  water  enough  to  melt  the  sugar, 
add  a few  of  the  plums  at  a time;  cook  until  tender,  and  carefully  remove 
the  fruit  and  place  in  jars.  Fill  up  with  syrup  and  seal.  Set  in  a dark 
place  and  away  from  draughts  of  air  to  prevent  the  jars  from  cracking. 

PLUM  JAM. 

Select  only  nice  well  ripened  fruit,  take  pound  for  pound  of  fruit  and 
sugar,  cover  the  fruit  with  boiling  water;  when  nearly  cold  drain  and  add 
the  sugar;  cook  slowly,  stirring  and  skimming  until  it  is  thick  enough  for 
the  juice  to  jelly  when  cold.  Pack  away  in  stone  jars  or  glass  vessels, 
store  in  a dark,  cold  place,  examine  from  time  to  time  and  re-boil  if  in- 
clined to  sour. 


PLUM  MARMALADE. 


Prepare  the  plums  the  same  as  for  jam,  to  every  pound  of  plums  add 
one  half, of  either  apples  or  peaches,  cook  until  thoroughly  tender  and 
mash,  remove  the  seed  if  you  wish,  by  passing  through  a colander  or 
coarse  sieve.  Add  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar  to  every  two  pounds 
of  the  fruit  mixture;  boil  slowly  and  skim  until  it  is  thick  like  the  jam; 
season  to  taste  with  ground  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice  and  just  a sugges- 
tion of  mace  and  nutmeg.  Pack  away  the  same  as  recommended  for  jam. 

MARMALADE  No.  2.  (Delicious.) 

Take  fruit  as  follows : two  pounds  of  plums,  one-half  pound  of  apples 
that  have  been  peeled  and  cored ; one-half  pound  of  mulberries ; one-fourth 
pound  of  tfee  wild  black  cherries ; one  pound  of  peaches  after  peeling  and 
“seeding”;  one-half  pound  of  blackberries.  Wash,  drain  and  add  just 
water  enough  to  keep  from  burning  while  cooking,  boil  until  tender;  re- 
move the  seed  and  add  four  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar;  boil  slowly  and 
skim  thoroughly  until  thick,  spice  to  taste,  the  same  as  number  one,  ana 
pack  away  the  same.  This  marmalade  is  excellent  with  turkey,  chicken 
and  all  kinds  of  fresh  meat. 

PLUM  PRESERVES. 

I have  had  this  method  to  give  most  excellent  results. 

Select  good  medium,  but  not  over-ripe  plums.  After  the  plums  have 
been  peeled,  which  can  be  easily  and  quickly  done  by  placing  the  fruit  in 
boiling  water  for  two  or  three  minutes,  and  then  into  cold  w*ater,  take  a 
stone,  porcelain  or  glass  jar  and  place  a layer  of  sugar  and  a layer  of 
plums  until  as  full  as  desired.  Let  stand  over  night,  pour  off  the  juice 
and  let  come  to  a boil,  skim  well,  drop  the  fruit  into  this  hot  syrup;  let  it 
boil  slowly  until  the  fruit  is  clear.  Now  add  to  each  quart  of  plums,  fif- 
teen grains  of  whole  spice,  ten  cloves,  three  sticks  of  cinnamon  an  inch 
long  and  four  shreds  of  mace.  Seal  and  treat  the  same  as  for  other  fruit. 

PLUM,  PEACH  AND  APPLE  PRESERVES. 

Take  one  pound  of  plums,  one  pound  of  apples  and  one  pound  of 
peaches.  All  should  be  peeled  and  the  apples  and  peaches  cut  into  discs 
about  the  size  of  the  plums.  Sugar  the  fruit-  the  same  as  for  plum  pre- 
serves but  in  separate  jars.  After  standing  over  night,  drain  the  syrup 
from  each  one  into  a preserving  kettle  and  boil  gently  and  skim  thoroughly 
for  two  minutes,  put  the  peaches  in  first,  boil  until  tender,  remove  and  add 
the  apples,  boiling  them  until  tender,  remove  and  add  the  plums,  boiling 
them  until  clear.  The  apples  and  peaches  should  be  kept  hot ; the  plums 
should  now  be  added  and  the  whole  mixed  together  but  not  mashed.  Add 
spice  exactly  the  same  in  kind  and  quantity  as  recommended  for  preserves. 

PLUM  CONSERVE. 

Take  three  pounds  of  peeled  plums,  one  pound  of  very  ripe  peaches  that 
have  been  peeled  and  sliced.  Select  three  large  oranges,  remove  the  seed 
and  mince  the  pulp.  Grate  the  rinds  and  use  the  pulp  and  juice.  Put  all 


together  and  stir  in  three  and  one-half  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  and 
one-half  pound  of  strained  honey;  boil  slowly  until  thick  and  seal  hot. 

PLUM  JELLY. 

Take  as  many  medium  ripe  plums  as  you  wish,  cover  them  with  boil- 
ing water.  Pour  off  immediately,  draining  them  thoroughly.  Put  them 
into  a preserving  kettle  with  just  boiling  water  enough  to  cover  them, 
boil  until  the  plums  begin  to  burst  and  considerable  juice  extracted.  Pour 
off  liquid  and  strain,  for  each  pound  of  juice  add  one  pound  of  white 
sugar.  Return  to  the  kettle  and  boil  it  slowly  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes, 
as  it  may  require.  Pour  into  jelly  glasses  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When 
solid  cover  closely  and  store  in  a cold,  dry  place. 

PICKLED  PLUMS.  No.  I. 

Take  either  the  yellow  or  red  varieties,  when  just  ripe  but  not  mush}, 
wash  and  dry  with  a soft  cloth,  prick  them  a few  times;  place  in  a stone 
jar,  add  four  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar  to  one  gallon  of  vinegar  (of 
medium  strength).  Put  into  preserving  kettle,  boil  and  skim  several 
times.  Continue  heating  the  vinegar  and  pouring  over  them  every  other 
day  for  three  days. 

PICKLED  PLUMS  No.  II. 

Take  seven  pounds  of  plums  and  five  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one-fourth 
pound  of  stick  cinnamon ; two  ounces  of  cloves  and  two  ounces  of  allspice ; 
scald  just  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them  and  pour  over  the  spiced  plums 
four  mornings  in  succession.  Pack  in  glass  or  stone  vessels.  Cautiojn— 
Do  not  put  in  vessels  with  metal  tops. 

BRANDIED  PLUMS. 

To  obtain,  the  best  results,  the  utmost  care  and  delicacy  must  be  ob- 
served. . 

Select  fruit  that  is  not  quite  ripe  and  wipe  carefully  with  a linen  cloth ; 
prick  to  the  center  in  several  places  with  a wooden  or  silver  needle ; throw 
into  boiling  water,  immediately  remove  from  the  fire  and  let  stand  for 
ten  minutes.  Heat  again  until  . the  fruit  begins  to  rise  to  the  top.  Skim 
off  and  drop  into  ice  water.  When  thoroughly  cold  drain  and  place  into 
a glass  or  stone  vessel  holding  good,  strong  brandy.  Let  stand  six  days. 
To  each  gallon  of  brandy  in  which  the  fruit  has  been  soaked  add  eight 
ounces  of  granulated  sugar.  (More  or  less  as  desired.)  Take  a teaspoon- 
ful  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  one  of  allspice  and  one  of  coriander 
seed.  Tie  loosely  in  a muslin  bag  and  drop  into  the  brandy  which  must 
be  brought  to  the  boiling  point.  Pour  over  the  plums  and  seal.  The  bag 
of  spices  should  be  immersed  in  the  plums.  Essences  of  these  spices 
may  be  used  if  preferred. 

PLUM  JUICE. 

Select  only  well  ripened  plums  for  the  finest  flavored  vinegar.  Prepare 
kettle  and  crush  with  a wooden  pestle.  Heat  slowly  and  boil  gently  for 
about  twenty-five  minutes.  Crush  again ; put  two  thicknesses  of  cheese 
cloth  into  the  colander,  pour  in  and  let  drain ; when  sufficiently  cold,  press 
out  all  of  the  juice  possible  by  twisting  the  cloth.  Clean  the  preserving 


t 


kettle  and  return  the  juice,  return  to  the  fire.  When  it  boils  draw  back 

and  skim,  repeat  this  three  or  four  times.  To  every  pint  of  juice  add  one- 

half  pint  of  sugar;  boil  five  or  six  minutes,  skimming  carefully.  Fill 

hot  sterlized  jars  or  bottles.  Set  the  vessel  in  boiling  water  and  allow  f 

it  to  simmer  for  twenty-five  minutes;  re-fill  with  boiling  juice;  remove 

from  the  fire  and  seal.  Place  on  boards  and  set  in  a dark  place  out  of 

a draft.  This  makes  a delicious  beverage  when  properly  diluted  and  used 

the  same  as  grape  juice. 

PLUM  SYRUP. 

Make  exactly  the  same  as  recommended  for  plum  juice  except  three- 
fourths  as  much  sugar  as  juice  must  be  added.  This  is  excellent  for 
water  ices,  ice  cream,  etc.  Two  or  three  spoonsful  added  to  a glass  of  ice 
water  is  Very  refreshing  in  hot  weather. 

PLUM  VINEGAR. 

Select  only  well  ripened  plums  for  the  finest  flavored  vinegar.  Prepare 
the  same  as  for  jelly  except  the  pulp  may  be  washed  twice  with  warm 
water  so  as  to  extract  just  as  much  of  the  juice  as  possible.  Pour  into 
stone  or  glass  vessels  and  set  in  a warm  place  for  two  days.  Skim  and 
decant  the  clear  liquid,  and  to  every  three  pints  of  juice  add  one  pint  of 
brown  sugar.  Pour  into  jugs ; tie  a cloth  over  the  top  and  set  in  a dark 
place  to  work.  When  sufficiently  strong  it  may  be  corked  and  put  away 
for  use.  A little  “mother”  from  strong  vinegar  is  often  added  with  ex- 
cellent results. 

DRIED  PLUMS  No.  I. 

Select  medium  ripe  plums,  cover  with  boiling  water,  cover  the  vessel 
and  let  stand  twenty  minutes ; drain  and  spread  in  the  sun  to  dry.  Stir 
occasionally,  when  dry  examine  them  frequently  and  at  the  first  appear- 
ance of  worms  put  in  the  oven  and  heat  for  a few  minutes.  In  cooking 
soak  in  cold  water  for  a few  hours  the  same  as  for  other  dried  fruit. 

DRIED  PLUMS  No.  II. 

After  peeling  the  plums,  allow  half  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of 
fruit.  Put  fruit  and  sugar  in  layers  in  a preserving  kettle.  Heat  slowly 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boil  until  clear.  Spread  the  fruit  on 
platters  in  the  sun  and  turn  often  until  quite  dry.  Pack  in  layers  with 
sugar  in  stone  or  glass  jars.  Plums  dried  in  this  way  are  extra  fine. 

PLUMS  AS  OLIVES. 

Take  plums  when  just  beginning  to  ripen,  but  still  green,  make  a brine 
out  of  sea  salt,  if  possible,  common  rock  salt  will  do,  strong  enough  to 
hold  up  an  egg.  Pour  the  brine  over  the  fruit  hot.  Cover  and  let  stand 
for  twenty-four  hours.  Pour  off  and  make  a new  brine,  in  which  place  the 
fruit,  boil  one  minute  and  seal  in  the  hot  brine. — From  Wis.  Exp.  Sta. 

Bui.  1 36. 

PLUM  SOUP.  No  I. 

Take  one-half  teacup  of  rice,  soak  over  night,  add  two  quarts  of  cold 
water,  boil  until  thoroughly  done  and  pasty,  peel  and  stew  a pint  of  well 
ripe  plums,  pass  through  a colander  to  remove  the  seeds ; sweeten  to  taste. 


add  to  the  rice  paste,  add  a little  cinnamon,  one  clove  and  a dash  of 
nutmeg. 

PLUM  SOUP  NO.  2. 

Take  one  pint  of  ripe  plums  and  one  quart  of  blackberries,  stew  each 
separately,  until  thoroughly  done,  rub  plums  through  colander  and  rub  the 
blackberries  through  r.  sieve  just  fine  enough  to  remove  the  seed;  boil  two 
tablespoons  of  tapioca  thoroughly  done  in  two  quarts  of  water,  mix,  re- 
turn to  the  fire,  and  simmer  twenty-five  minutes.  Add  a little  cinnamon, 
sweeten  with  sugar  to  taste,  or  add  a little  salt  as  preferred.  Serve  cold. 

PLUM  SOUP  NO.  3. 

Make  exactly  as  for  number  two,  except  a pint  of  very  ripe  peaches 
must  be  added  that  have  been  peeled  and  reduced  to  a pulp  without  cook- 
ing. Sweeten  to  taste  and  serve,  preferably  with  cream  and  sugar. 

PLUM  LOZENGES  NO.  1. 

Take  one-third  pint  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  thick  plum  juice  after  strain- 
ing; allow  to  simmer  thirty-five  to  forty  minutes,  when  at  boiling  point 
add  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  gelatine  that  has  been  previously  dissolved 
in  a very  little  cold  water,  stir  well,  remove  from  the  fire  and  continue 
to  stir  until  it  begins  to  cool  and  thicken.  Pour  into  well  buttered  plates 
or  earthen  dishes,  let  dry  slowly,  sprinkle  with  sugar  during  the  process, 
when  sufficiently  dry  cut  into  any  shape  desired. 

PLUM  LOZENGES  No.  II.  (Very  Fine.) 

Take  one  pint  of  sugar,  on  pint  each  of  thick  plum,  peach  and 
blackberry  juice;  simmer  and  skim  for  thirty  minutes,  when  at  boiling 
point  add  three  heaping  tablespoons  of  gelatine  that  has  been  previously 
soaked  in  a little  cold  water.  Treat  the  same  as  for  No.  1.  Until  nearly 
ready  to  cut,  sprinkle  and  immerse  bits  of  candied  plums  and  peaches; 
cut  each  piece  to  include  one  or  both  of  these  choice  tid-bits. 

WILD  PLUM  CATSUP.  (Berry’s  Fnrt  Recipes.) 

To  each  five  pounds  of  plums  take  two  and  one-half  pounds  of 
sugar,  cooking,  crushing,  and  putting  through  the  sieve.  To  each  quart  of 
juice  add  a generous  half -pint  of  vinegar  and  spice  to  taste.  Cook  twenty 
minutes  and  bottle. 

PLUM  PASTE. 

Select  very  ripe  plums,  put  into  a granite  or  porcelain  lined  stew  kettle, 
and  add  two  tablespoons  of  water,  cover  tightly  and  steam  very  slowly 
until  enough  water  forms  to  allow  them  to  cook  slowly  without  burning. 
Boil  until  they  can  be  rubbed  to  a pulp,  pass  through  a sieve  to  remove 
the  seed,  return  the  pulp  to  the  fire  and  cook  slowly  until  very  thick,  add 
one-half  of  its  weight  of  brown  sugar ; let  dissolve  and  boil  for  a few  min- 
utes, pour  the  mass  into  earthen  plates  or  dishes,  in  quarter  or  inch  thick- 
nesses, and  dry  slowly  in  a warm  oven.  Remove  when  sufficiently  dry 
and  pack  away,  to  be  used  in  puddings,  candies,  cakes,  etc. 


PLUM  ROLL. 


Use  very  ripe  plums  the  same  as  for  the  paste.  Mash  and  remove  the 
pits,  pour  into  platters  about  one-fourth  inch  thick,  add  sugar  slowly 
as  long  as  it  will  absorb  any,  dry  in  a moderate  oven,  remove  the  thin 
sheets  from  the  platters,  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  roll,  put  in  bags 
or  jars  for  use.  It  is  ready  for  use  after  soaking  for  a few  hours  in  cold 
water,  usually  without  cooking  and  without  sugar. 

PLUM  ROLY-POLY. 

This  can  be  made  with  either  plum  paste,  or  the  plum  prepared  as  for 
Betty,  as  follows : make  a sweet  biscuit  dough,  roll  out  thin  and  spread 
with  a large  layer  of  plums,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  butter  and  spice  and  roll 
the  dough  over  as  for  jelly  roll.  Steam  two  hours  or  bake  in  a moderate 
oven. 

PLUM  DUMPLINGS  BAKED. 

Remove  the  seed  from  the  desired  number  of  thoroughly  ripe  plums, 
roll  out  biscuit  dough  quite  thin,  cut  in  squares  large  enough  to  cover 
four  or  six  plums,  sprinkle  with  a tablespoon  of  sugar,  bring  up  the 
corners  of  the  dough  and  fasten  by  pinching  and  twisting  together. 
Place  in  baking  pan  close  together  and  when  pan  is  full  pour  over  them  a 
syrup  made  with  one  pint  of  water  and  three-fourths  pound  of  sugar, 
letting  it  come  half  way  to  the  top  of  the  dumplings.  Cinnamon,  allspice 
and  a dash  of  nutmeg  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  top  of  each.  Bake  fifty 
minutes  in  rather  a brisk  oven.  Serve  with  cream  or  hard  sauce. 

PLUM  CROQUETTS  No.  I. 

Prepare  the  plums  the  same  as  for  the  paste,  further  thicken  with 
fine  bread  crumbs  or  cracker  dust,  minced  walnuts,  hickory  nuts  or  nuts  of 
any  kind  add  greatly  to  its  flavor ; stir  in  additional  sugar  if  desired,  and 
a dash  of  spice.  Roll  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  fry  a deep  brown  in  boiling 
fat. 

PLUM  BETTY. 

Select  two  or  three  cups  of  very  ripe  plums ; remove  the  seed  and  mince 
very  fine.  Butter  a dish,  put  in  a layer  of  plums,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon, 
sugar  and  butter,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  alternate  the  layers  of  fruit  and 
crumbs  as  long  as  desired,  stopping  with  layer  of  crumbs.  Do  not  add 
water,  but  cover  tight  and  steam  one  hour  in  a moderate  oven,  after  which 
remove  the  cover  and  brown  quickly,  serve  with  cream  or  sweet  sauce. 

PLUM  DUMPLINGS  BOILED. 

Prepare  the  plums  the  same  as  for  baked  dumplings,  tie  each  one  in  a 
separate  cloth,  plunge  into  boiling  water  and  boil  vigorously  for  one  and 
one-half  hours.  Serve  with  cream  or  hard  sauce. 

PLUM  DUMPLINGS  IN  CUPS. 

Line  baking  cups  with  thin  pastry;  fill  with  seeded  plums  and  sugar; 
place  on  each  a cover  of  the  pastry  and  put  them  in  a large  baking  pan, 
pouring  boiling  water  around  the  cups  half  way  up,  bake  until  done  in  a 
hot  oven. 


DELICIOUS  PLUM  TART 

Seed  and  place  in  a crock  without  any  water  the  desired  amount  of 
plums;  put  in  a slow  oven  and  cook  until  tender,  mix  half  and  half  with 
peaches  that  have  been  peeled,  seeded  and  treated  in  the  same  way.  Place 
in  baking  dish,  sugar  to  taste,  cover  with  a sheet  of  well  pricked  pastry 
and  bake  quickly,  serve  cold  with  cream,  or  rich  milk. 

PLUM  SANDWICHES. 

Spread  thin  slices  of  bread  with  plum  jam  or  plum  paste,  sprinkle  liberal- 
ly with  chopped  hickory  nuts,  walnuts,  chestnuts,  etc.  If  desired  very  rich 
spread  the  bread  with  butter  before  putting  on  the  fruit  and  chopped  nuts. 

PLUM  SHORT-CAKE  WITH  NUTS.  (Very  Rich.) 

Make  a rich  pie  crust,  roll  out  thin  and  bake ; cut  any  shape  desired 
and  proceed  as  follows : select  very  ripe  plums,  peel,  seed  and  chop  very 
fine,  sweeten  to  taste,  spread  a thin  layer  over  each  piece  of  pastry,  in  the 
same  manner  as  for  layer  cake,  sprinkle  each  layer  liberally  with  minced 
nuts.  Build  up  as  high  as  you  desire,  ice  the  top  and  decorate  artistically 
with  nut  kernels.  Serve  with  cream  or  very  rich  milk. 

PLUM  CROQUETTS  No.  II. 

Take  the  desired  amount  of  plum  paste  or  plum  and  peach  marmalade; 
put  into  a double  boiler  and  let  come  to  the  boiling  point ; have  ready  about 
one-third  of  a cup  of  corn  starch  that  has  been  moistened  with  just  a little 
cold  water;  stir  in  and  cook  fiften  minutes,  just  before  removing  add  one 
beaten  egg,  whipping  as  it  cooks;  place  all  in  a flat,  wet  mould  or  deep 
dish  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  needed  drop  a teaspoon  of  the  mixture 
into  fine  dry  bread,  or  craker  crumbs,  place  in  basket  and  fry  to  a light 
brown  in  boiling  fat;  spices,  nuts  and  lemon  juice  may  be  added  if  desired. 

DELICIOUS  PLUM  SHERBET. 

Scald  a quart  of  rich  milk,  dissolve  in  a cup  of  sugar.  Let  simmer  eight 
minutes,  then  cool,  adding  to  it  (when  cold)  a pint  of  plum  pulp  when 
sweetened  and  flavored.  When  half  frozen  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs 
whipped,  and  complete  the  freezing. 

PLUM  ICE. 

Seed  and  rub  to  a pulp  the  desired, amount  of  well  ripened  plums;  for 
every  pint  of  plums  add  three-fourths  pint  of  sugar;  let  stand  two  hours. 
Strain,  and  to  each  half  gallon  of  syrup  allow  one  and  one-half  pint  of 
water.  Freeze.  The  pulp  will  make  nice  pies,  tarts,  sauce  or  croquetts 
by  the  addition  of  a little  sugar  and  flavoring  to  taste. 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

Over  a quart  of  seeded  plums  sprinkle  one  and  three-fourths  pound 
of  sugar,  let  stand  and  hour;  drain  off  the  juice,  add  to  it  a pint  of  rich 
sweet  milk,  four  well  beaten  eggs,  a little  more  sugar  if  not  sweet  enough, 
a tablespoon  of  butter,  melted  and  rubbed  smooth  with  half  a cup  of  flour, 
and  a little  of  the  milk ; add  a pinch  of  salt,  pour  over  the  plurn^  and  bake 
till  brown,  serve  with  cream  or  the  fruit  syrup  that  was  drained  off. 


PLUM  PUNCH. 

Seed  and  mash  a pound  of  very  ripe  plums,  place  in  bowl  with  the  juice 
of  three  lemons  and  two  oranges,  and  three  slices  of  pineapples,  cover 
with  one  and  one-half  pint  of  sugar.  Let  stand  one  hour  and  strain. 
Heat  this  and  add  a quart  each  of  carbonated  water  and  Claret,  a sliced 
banana  and  one-fourth  pound  of  candied  plums. 

PLUM  RICE  PUDDING 

Allow  two  tablespoons  of  rice  to  one  quart  of  milk  salted.  Boil  to-* 
gether  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  Then  place  in  the  baking  dish  with  one 
cup  of  seeded  and  sweetened  plums.  Bake  an  hour,  stirring  frequently. 
The  last  time  stir  in  a half  cup  of  mixed  nuts,  cover  with  well  beaten  egg 
and  brown  lightly,  serve  with  cream. 

OLD-FASHIONED  PLUM  PIE. 

Take  very  rpe  plums,  seed  and  put  them  in  a deep  pie-plate  lined  with 
a rich  puff  paste,  sprinkle  a thick  layer  of  sugar  on  each  layer  of  plums, 
add  spice  if  desired,  put  in  a tablespoon  of  water,  and  sprinkle  a little 
flour  over  the  top.  Cover  with  thick  crust  and  bake  from  fifty  to  sixty 
minutes. 

DRIED  PLUM  PIE. 

Soak  the  desired  amount  of  dried  plums  in  cold  water  several  hours. 
Stew  until  tender,  thoroughly  mash  by  rubbing  through  a colander,  beat 
two  eggs,  saving  the  white  of  one,  add  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar  and 
one-half  cup  of  butter  to  every  pie,  spice  to  taste,  stir  in  the  eggs,  line  a 
deep  pie-pan  with  puff  paste,  fill  and  bake  until  done,  frost  the  white  of 
the  egg  and  spread  cn  top,  return  to  a quick  oven  and  brown  slightly. 

FRIED  PLUM  PIE. 

Take  plain  biscuit  dough,  roll  out  very  thin.  Put  two  tablespoons  of 
plum  paste  or  stewed  plums  that  have  been  spaced  and  well  sweetened. 
Fold  the  crust  over  and  cut  into  small  half  moons,  wet  and  crimp  the 
edges.  Distribute  the  fruit  by  pressing  the  pie  gently  after  crimping. 
Fry  to  a rich  brown  in  boiling  hot  fat. 


