Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


‘V.- 


:a=1^  ...  .i.  -- 


5^1- 


I 


I op 


BULLETIN  No.  37 


1918 


How  to  Make  Sweet  Potato 
Flour,  Starch,  Sugar 
Bread  and  Mock 
Cocoanut 


BY 


G.  W.  CARVER,  M.  S.  Agr., 

Director 


EXPERIMENT  STATION 
TUSKEGEE  NORMAL  AND  INDUSTRIAL 
INSTITUTE 


HOW  TO  MAKE  SWEET  POTATO  FLOUR,  STARCH, 
SUGAR,  BREAD  AND  MOCK  COCOANUT 


BY  GEO.  W.  CARVER 

Director  Experiment  Station,  Tuskegee  Normal  and  Industrial  Insti- 
tute, Tuskegee  Institute,  Alabama. 


SWEET  POTATO  FLOUR 

There  are  several  grades  of  this  product  and  quite  as  many  ways  to 
manufacture  them.  Each  one  of  these  flours  or  meals  (as  most  millers 
insist  upon  calling  them)  has  a particular  character  of  its  own  and  is 
therefore  adapted  to  certain  uses  the  other  products  are  not. 

These  Sweet  Potato  flours  are  generally  speaking  of  three  kinds. 

1st.  Those  made  from  the  uncooked  potato. 

2nd.  Those  made  from  the  cooked  potato. 

3rd.  Those  made  from  a careful  system  of  roasting,  or  from  the 
starch  making  process.  The  first  two  will  interest  the  housewife 
most,  so,  therefore,  I will  dwell  almost  or  quite  exclusively  on  these. 

FLOUR  NO.  1.  FROM  THE  RAW  POTATO 

Here,  all  that  is  necessary  is  to  wash,  peel,  and  slice  the  potatoes  real 
thin,  dry  in  sun,  oven  or  dryer  until  the  pieces  are  quite  brittle,  grind 
very  fine  in  a clean  coffee  mill,  spice  mill,  or  any  type  of  mill  that  will 
make  wheat  flour  or  corn  meal;  bolt  through  fine  cloth  in  the  same 
way,  as  for  other  flours. 

The  fine  flour-like  particles  will  pass  through,  and  the  coarse  gran- 
ular meal  left  on  the  bolting  cloths.  ^ 

Uses 

This  kind  of  flour  is  fine  for  making  mock  rye  bread,  ginger  snaps, 
wafers,  waffles,  batter  cakes,  custards,  pies,  etc.  Bread  can  be  made 
with  it,  but  it  makes  a dough  deficient  in  elasticity,  bread  dark  in  color 
and  a loaf  which  dries  out  quickly. 

The  coarser  meals  can  be  cooked  in  a great  variety  of  ways  and 
make  very  palatable  dishes;  they  are  to  be  soaked  ki  warm  liquid 
(whatever  is  desired  to  cook  them  in),  when  soft  proceed  as  for  grated 
potatoes. 


3 


FLOUR  NO.  2.  FROM  COOKED  POTATOES 


For  the  making  of  this  flour  the  potatoes  are  boiled,  or  steamed 
(preferably  the  latter)  until  done,  sliced  or  granulated  by  mashing  or 
running  through  a food  chopper  and  dried  until  they  become  very  brit- 
tle, they  are  made  into  flour  and  meal  exactly  the  same  as  given  for 
Flour  No.  1. 

Uses 

This  kind  of  flour  is  especially  fine  for  bread,  cakes,  pies,  puddings, 
sauce,  gravies,  custards,  etc. 

Indeed,  most  people  consider  a loaf  made  in  the  proportion  of  one- 
third  sweet  potato  flour  to  two-thirds  wheat  flour,  superior  in  flavor 
and  appearance  to  all  wheat  flour. 

Many  experiments  have  proven  that  either  the  mashed  sweet  potato 
or  the  sweet  potato  flour  may  be  used  in  bread  up  to  as  high  as  50%, 
but  at  this  point  it  becomes  decidedly  potato-like  in  texture  and  flavor 
but  not  unpalatable  or  unwholesome. 

FLOUR  NO.  3.  FROM  PULP 

This  flour  is  made  from  the  pulp  after  the  starch  has  been  removed, 
it  is  dried  without  cooking,  ground  and  bolted  exactly  the  same  as 
recommended  for  the  other  flours. 

When  made  into  puddings,  pies,  blanc-mange,  etc.,  the  same  as 
shredded  cocoanut,  it  resembles  it  very  much  in  taste  and  texture  and 
is  very  palatable,  and  is  a most  welcome  addition  to  the  dietary. 

It  can  also  be  used  in  the  making  of  bread  and  is  especially  valuable 
where  people  object  to  a loaf  with  the  least  bit  of  a sweet  taste,  also 
where  they  wish  one  with  as  little  starch  and  sugar  as  possible. 

SWEET  POTATO  STARCH 

This  is  very  easily  made,  all  that  is  necessary  is  to  grate  the  potato, 
the  finer  the  better,  put  into  a cheese  cloth  or  thin  muslin  bag  and  dip 
up  and  down,  in  a vessel  of  water,  squeezing  occasionally,  continue 
washing  as  long  as  the  washings  are  very  milky. 

Allow  it  to  settle  five  or  six  hours  or  until  the  water  becomes  clear, 
pour  off;  rewash  the  starch,  which  will  be  in  the  bottom  of  the  vessel, 
stir  up  well,  allow  to  settle  again,  pour  off  the  water  and  let  dry,  keep 
the  same  as  any  ordinary  starch. 

Uses 

Use  exactly  the  same  as  corn  starch  in  cooking;  I am  confident  you 
will  find  it.  superior  to  corn  starch;  it  makes  a very  fine  quality  of 
library  paste,  and  has  very  powerful  adhesive  qualities. 

In  certain  arts  and  trades  it  is  almost  indispensable. 


4 


SWEET  POTATO  SUGAR 


By  saving  the  water  in  which  the  pulp  was  washed  first,  in  the 
starch  making  process,  and  boiling  down,  the  same  as  for  any  syrup, 
a very  palatable,  non  crystaline  sugar  will  be  the  result;  this  sugar  or 
syrup  can  be  used  in  many  ways. 

Here  in  the  South  and  other -sections  of  the  country  where  fresh 
potatoes  can  be  had  almost  or  quite  the  year  round,  the  flour  is  not  a 
necessity  for  bread  making;  but  for  commercial  purposes  there  are 
almost  unlimited  possibilities,  and  is  destined  to  become  more  popular 
as  fast  as  the  public  finds  out  what  a delicious,  appetizing  and  whole- 
some product  these  flours  are. 

Our  method  of  using  follows  with  the  hope  that  thousands  of  house- 
wives will  try  out  this  most  satisfactory  way  to  conserve  wheat  flour. 


HOUSEHOLD  RECIPES 

SWEET  POTATO  BREAD 


Take: 

1 cup  finely  mashed  sweet  potatoes; 

2 tablespoons  warm  water; 

V2  yeast  cake; 

1 teaspoon  salt. 

Two  and  % cups  flour,  or  sufficient  to  make  a soft  dough. 

Add  the  salt  to  the  potatoes,  and  the  yeast;  pour  in  the  water;  add 
flour  enough  to  make  a. smooth  sponge  (about  a cupful);  cover,  and 
set  in  a warm  place  to  rise. 

When  light  add  the  remainder  of  the  flour  or  whatever  is  needed  to 
make  a smooth,  elastic  dough.  Cover,  and  let  rise  until  light;  mould; 
shape  into  loaves  or  rolls;  let  rise  and  bake. 

Many  variations  of  the  above  bread  can  be  made  by  adding  sugar, 
butter,  lard,  nuts,  spices,  etc. 

SWEET  POTATO  BISCUITS 

Take: 

V2  cupful  mashed  sweet  potatoes. 

1 cupful  flour. 

4 teaspoons  baking  powder. 

V2  teaspoon  salt. 

2 tablespoons  butter  or  lard. 

Milk  sufficient  to  make  a soft  dough.  Sift  the  flour,  salt,  and  baking 
powder  together  several  times;  add  these  to  the  potatoes,  mixing  in 
with  a knife. 


5 


Now  work  the  fat  into  the  mixture  lightly;  add  the  milk;  work 
quickly  and  lightly  until  a soft  dough  is  formed;  turn  out  on  a floured 
board;  pat  and  roll  out  lightly  until  about  one-half  inch  thick;  cut  into 
biscuits;  place  on  buttered  or  greased  pans,  and  bake  twelve  or  fifteen 
minutes  in  a quick  oven. 

SWEET  POTATO  BISCUITS  NO.  2 (EXTRA  FINE) 

Take: 

1 cup  boiled  and  finely  mashed  sweet  potatoes. 

2 eggs,  well  beaten. 

2 cups  flour. 

2 teaspoons  baking  powder. 

1 teaspoon  salt. 

2 scant  tablespoons  melted  butter  or  lard. 

1 tablespoon  sugar  (if  desired). 

2 cups  milk. 

Mix  together  all  the  dry  ingredients,  and  stir  into  the  milk,  beaten 
eggs  and  potato. 

If  too  soft  add  more  flour,  sufficient  to  make  a soft  dough.  Roll  out 
lightly;  cut  with  a biscuit  cutter;  bake  in  quick  oven. 

SWEET  POTATO  BREAD  (BAKER’S  METHOD) 

This  recipe  was  given  me  by  Mr.  J.  M.  Colter,  who  has  charge  of 
the  Institute’s  Bakery: 

Take: 

70  pounds  of  wheat  flour. 

30  pounds  of  finely  mashed  sweet  potatoes. 

40  pounds  of  water. 

IV2  pounds  of  salt. 

1 pound  of  sugar. 

1 pound  of  lard. 

1 pound  of  compressed  yeast. 

Every  other  operation  is  exactly  the  same  as  for  bread  or  rolls  made 
from  all  wheat  flour. 

Mr.  W.  T.  Shehee,  Steward  of  Boarding  Department,  says  it  not  only 
gives  universal  satisfaction,  but  is  preferred  by  many  to  bread  or  rolls 
made  from  all  wheat  flour. 


6 


