Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


^€SQSI1 


Thrashing  in  the  Old  Way 

BY 

G.  W.  CARVER,  M.  S.  AGR. 
DIRECTOR 


PRINTED  BY  TUSKEGEE  STUDENTS  FROM  FUNDS  SUPPLIED  BY  THE  ASH  FUND 
ESTABLISHED  In'  MEMORY  OF  MRS.  ELLEN  L.  ASH 


BULLETIN  NO  33 


DECEMBER,  1917 


EXPERIMENT  STATION 

TUSKEGEE  NORMAL  AND  INDUSTRIAL  INSTITUTE 
TUSKEGEE  INSTITUTE,  ALABAMA 


How  to  Grow  the  Cow  Pea 
AND  40  WAYS  OF  PREPARING 
IT  AS  A TABLE  DELICACY 


SECOND  REVISION 


BULLETIN  NO.  35  DECEMBER,  1917 


How  to  Grow  the  Cow  Pea,  and  40  Ways  of  Pre 
paring  It  as  a Table  Delicacy 

G.  W.  CARVER,  M.  S.  AGR.,  Director 


> A Fine  Field  of  Peas 

Atnong  the  many  rich  blessings  especially  given  to  the  South,  there 
are  but  few,  if  any,  that  stand  out^more  prominently  than  the  cow 
pea,  for  the  following  reasons: 

1.  It  is  a legume  (pod-bearing  plant),  and  brings  fertility  to  the 
soil.  In  this  it  has  but  few  equals,  and  still  fewet  superiors. 

2.  As  a food  for  man  and  beast  the  peas  are  almost  indispensable, 
and  the  vines  make  a very  superior  roughage  for  stock. 

3.  Year  by  year  this  splendid  vegetable  becomes  more  popular — 
the  radius  over  which  it  is  grown  has  steadily  increased  until  there 
is  scarcely  a section  of  the  country  where  farming  is  carried  on  to 
any  considerable  degree,  that  it  may  not  be  found  in  some  one  or  more 
of  its  several  varieties  as  forming  one  of  the  principal  crops. 


AND  40  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT 


4.  There  are  few  crops  grown  by  the  farmer  that  has  such  a wide 
range  of  uses. 

5.  It  is  one  of  the  easiest  of  farm  crops  grown,  making  a fair 
yield  under  absolute  neglect. 

6.  It  is  the  one  sure  crop  the  farmer  can  depend  upon  year  after 
year  if  he  plants  two  or  more’  of  the  standard  varieties. 

7.  In  this  locality  fresh  green  peas  may  be  had  from  the  latter 
part  of  May  until  frost. 

8.  Thus  far  the  demand  has  been  far  greater  than  the  supply; 
hence,  prices  have  always  been  good. 

9.  For  green-manuring  it  is  universally  grown  and  admired. 

10.  When  the  running  varieties  are  planted  with  corn,  sorghum, 
etc.,  it  makes  a very  superior  silage,  greatly  relished  by  all  kinds  of 
stock. 

11.  The  cow  pea  rightly  handled  is  both  a bank  and  a mortgage- 
lifter  to  the  poor  man. 

It  is  a matter  of  much  regret  that  every  colored  farmer  in  Macon 
County  does  not  plant  at  least  three  acres  in  peas. 

History 

For  nearly  one  hundred  years  the  cow  pea  has  been  the  chief  legu- 
minous (pod-bearing)  crop  throughout  the  entire  group  of  Southern 
States.  About  fifty  varieties  have  been  cultivated  to  a greater  or 
lesser  extent  in  the  United  States,  and  every  year  its  value 
is  becoming  better  known  and  more  highly  appreciated,  as  is  evidenced 
by  the  increased  acreage  planted  wherever  it  can  be  grown. 

Origin 

Of  the  large  number  of  varieties  cultivated  in  this  country,  it  is 
thought  that  the  most  of  them  are  of  American  origin,  and  they  are 
technically  classified  as  “Vigna  Unguiculata.”  It  is  also  believed 
that  many  of  the  American  varieties  originated  by  hybridization  or 
by  mutation. 

The  cow  pea  is  closely  related  to  the  Catjang  family  (Vigna  Cat- 
jang);  also  to  the  Asparagus  bean  (Vigna  Sesquipedalis).  Their 
cultivation  is  very  ancient  especially  in  Southern  Asia  and  Africa. 

There  are  a great  many  varieties  in  those  countries,  which  are 
being  brought  over  to  this  country,  and  from  which  we  may  expect 
some  new  and  valuable  crosses.  Mr.  George  W.  Oliver  has  made 
many  hybrids  in  which  the  valuable  qualities  of  the  two  types  are 
combined,  and  will  give  us  doubtless  a more  superior  pea  than  either 
parent. 

The  cow  pea  is  also  found  growing  wild  in  India.  The  foreign 

quality.  . ^ 1 -.i..!  i 


4 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  COW  PEA 


types  are  supposed  to  have  been  brought  to  this  country  from  Eng- 
land, in  1734,  by  Oglethorpe  and  distributed  to  the  Georgia  colonies. 

Varieties 

Of  the  many  varieties  upon  the  market,  our  Station  has  found  these 
to  be  the  best  for  this  locality: 

(Extra  Early  Black-Eye 
(New  Era 

For  Early  Planting:  (Lady 

(Cuban  Black-Eye 

(California  Black-Eye  (just  a little  later 
than  the  others) 

(Iron 

(Speckled 

(Black 

For  Mid-Summer:  (Clay 

(Brabham 

(Groit 

(Red  Ripper 
(White  Crowder 

For  late  planting  nothing  was  better  than  the  Unknown.  It  made 
a tremendous  growth  of  vines,  and  also  a good  yield  of  peas. 

Climate  and  Soil 

In  these  two  particulars  Macon  County  is  especially  fortunate. 
While  the  pea  will  adjust  itself  to  almost  any  kind  of  soil,  and  will 
produce  larger  returns  in  the  way  of  a crop  on  thin  sandy  soils 
than  any  other  of  our  common  garden  or  field  crops,  it  delights  in  a 
light,  well-drained,  porous  sandy  soil.  Our  own  climate  is  quite 
ideal — the  hot  summer  sun  and  the  mild  winters  make  the  pea  al- 
most indigenous.  Very  often  peas  lay  in  the  ground  all  winter  and 
come  up  in  the  spring. 

Selection  of  Seed 

As  a rule,  there  is  practically  no  attention  given  to  the  proper 
kind  of  seed  to  select  for  planting,  and  many  do  not  even  attempt  to 
keep  the  different  varieties  separate.  This  is  a great  mistake.  It 
is  just  as  important  to  select  the  proper  kind  of  pea  seed  for  plant- 
ing as  it  is  to  select  that  of  any  other  farm  crop.  The  following 
points  should  be  observed: 

1.  Screen,  winnow,  float,  or  hand-pick  so  as  to  get  only  the  largest, 
soundest,  and  plumpest  seed.  It  is  true  that  many  of  the  small, 
light,  inferior-looking  peas  will  grow  and  often  produce  considerable 
vine,  but  the  yield  of  peas  will  be  deficient  both  in  quantity  and 


AND  40  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT 


5 


(2)  ^Select  peas  that  are  as  little  eaten  by  the  weevil  as  possible, 
and  do  not  be  deceived  by  the  old  antiquated  idea  that  bug-eaten  peas 
grow  just  as  well  as  thoroughly  sound  ones.  Two  or  three  small 
holes  do  not  seem  to  materially  injure  them  for  planting,  but  any- 
thing above,  that  should  not  be  used  if  a full  crop  is  expected.  ^ 

The  two  large  fleshy  seed  leaves  contain  the  stored-up  food  for 
the  tiny  plantlet  until  it  is  large  enough  and  strong  enough  to  get 
its  food  from  the  soil;  hence,  if  these  seed  leaves  have  been  injured 
its  food  supply  has  been  cut  off  and  the  plant  weakened  in  propor- 
tion to  the  extent  of  the  injury  to  the  seed  leaves. 

(3)  Do  not  plant  a conglomerated  mixture,  but  separate  the  va- 
rieties, even  if  you  have  to  hand-pick  them.  No  two  varieties  are 
exactly  alike  in  gTowth  and  other  characteristics,  hence,  if  sown  to- 
gether, the  strongest  grower  and  feeder  will  more  or  less  overcome 
the  weakest,  which  means  a reduction  in  the  crop  in  the  end,  be- 
sides the  loss  of  the  particular  varieties  which  enter  into  the  admix- 
ture. 

(4)  Mixed  peas  always  sell  for  less  than  pure  varieties,  and 
are  never  so  good  for  table  use,  as  they  do  not  cook  evenly. 

The  cow  pea  likes  an  especially  deep  and  well-prepared  seed  bed. 
Prepare  exactly  the  same  as  fo.r  corn  or  cotton  by  plowing  from  8 to 
9 inches  deep.  Harrow  thoroughly,  cross-plow,  and  re-harrow  if 
necessary  to  put  the  land  in  proper  condition.  The  pea  is  a vora- 
cious feeder,  and  the  roots  travel  five  and  six  feet,  and  even  greater 
distances  (under  favorable  circumstances)  in  search  of  food.  It  must 
be  borne  in  mind  that  if  the  land  has  been  skimmed  in  the'  matter  of 
plowing  for  some  years  to  a depth  of  three  or  four  inches,  do  not 
plow  but  two  inches  deeper  the  first  time,  unless  you  have  plenty  of 
manure  to  broadcast  and  turn  under.  The  next  time'  the  land  is  pre- 
pared for  a crop,  go  the  other  two  or  three  inches  as  the  case  may  be. 

Planting 

In  this  there  are  several  methods  in  common  use,  all  of  which,  under 
certain  favorable  conditions,  do  well;  but  experience  seems  to  empha- 
size the  following  as  points  to  be  observed: 

Method  (a)  prepares  the  ground;  puts  the  seed  in  with  a drill,  or 
sows  them  by  hand,  putting  from  1 1-2  to  2 bushels  per  acre,  and 
covers  with  a harrow.  This  is  all  right  provided  the  ground  is  rea- 
sonably rich  and  well-prepared;  the  peas  will  get  ahead  of  the  weeds 


6 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  COW  PEA 


I 


AND  40  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT 


7 


and  grass.  Do  not  sow  peas  in  very  poor  land  that  has  a tendency 
to  bake  after  the  first  hard  rain. 

Method  (b)  plants  in  rows  the  same  as  for  corn  or  cotton,  and  cul- 
tivates almost  entirely  throughout  the  growing  season.  This  method 
will  produce  a good  crop  of  peas,  but  at  too  great  an  expense  of 
labor. 

Method  (c)  plants  in  rows  thus:  Lay  off  two  rows  the  usual 

width,  say  three  feet;  then  another  from  12  to  16  inches  from  it. 
This  will  allow  the  cultivator  to  run  between  the  rows  and  keep 
them  clean  until  the  plants  get  a start.  By  removing  a tooth  from 
a cultivator  on  the  order  of  the  Diverse,  both  the  wide  and  narrow 
row  may  be  cultivated  at  the  same  time.  One  or  two  workings  is  all 
that  is  necessary,  as  the  peas  will  soon  cover,  the  ground  and  appear 
as  sowed. 

This  is  pre-eminently  the  method  to  follow  in  planting  poor  land, 
as  it  keeps  the  ground  loose,  the  weeds  down,  and  gives  the  peas  a 
chance  to  start  to  growing  such  as  they  would  not  have  if  sown. 

Method  (d)  plants  peas  in  corn,  about  the  last  plowing.  They 
are  sown,  drilled  or  chopped  in  with  a hoe  as  the  planter  wishes. 
Often  an  excellent  crop  of  peas  can  be  made  in  this  way,  and  at  the 
same  time  the  land  is  greatly  improved. 

Sowing  with  sorghum  millet  is  quite  common,  and  on  rich  soil,  the 
results  are  excellent,  but  exceedingly  bad  and  disappointing  on  poor 
soil. 

The  cow  pea  belongs  to  a section  of  plants  known  as  ‘Tegumes,”  and 
they  characterize  themselves  from  all  other  plants  by  bearing  pods, 
in  which  the  seeds  are  contained.  There  are  two  chief  reasons  why 
these  legumes  hold  first  place  with  every  progressive  farmer.  First, 
they  have,  as  no  other  class  of  plants  have,  the  power  under  the 
proper  conditions,  to  extract  nitrogen  from  the  air  and  impart  or 
give  it  to  the  soil.  Repeated  experiments  prove  that  an  acre  of  well- 
grown  cow  peas  will,  if  the  total  crop  is  returned,  impart  from 
$29.00  to  $30.00  worth  of  fertility  to  the  soil.  The  pea,  like  all  other 
plants  of  its  class,  has  the  powel*  to  extract  and  use  the  free  nitrogen 
from  the  air  by  certain  germs  known  as  bacteria  (which  belong  to 
the  lowest  order  of  plant  life).  These  bacteria  collect  in  large  num- 
bers and  form  little  nodules  (swellings)  on  the  roots.  The  bacteria 
collect  the  nitrogen  from  the  air  and  deposit  it  in  these  nodules, 
where  it  is  worked  over  and  made  ready  for  the  use  of  the  plant. 
Hence,  peas  do  not  require  heavy  applications  of  fertilizers  contain- 
ing nitrogen,  but  they  are  heavy  feeders  on  potash  and  phosphoric 
acid. 

On  exceedingly  poor  soils  it  is  wise  to  put  a little  nitrogen,  say 


AND  40  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT 


9 


30  or  40  lbs.  of  nitrate  of  soda  per  acre,  or  its  equivalent  in  any  other 
fertilizer  containing  nitrogen.  Where  the  soil  is  reasonably  rich,  as 
indicated  by  a heavy  growth  of  vines,  no  nitrogen  is  needed. 

Inoculation 

Inoculation  is  the  process  of  supplying  the  soil  with  the  particu- 
lar germs  (bacteria)  that  form  the  nodules.  There  are  two  ways 
in  common  use  that  have  proven  quite  satisfactory:  First,  by  get-^ 

ting  some  soil  from  a field  where  the  crop  was  fine  and  the  roots 
unusually  thick  with  nodules.  The  soil  is  loaded  into  a wagon  and 
scattered  out  upon  the  land  much  the  same  as  for  coarse  fertilizers. 
The  peas  are  then  planted  in  the  usual  manner.  This  method  is 
universally  satisfactory.  Second,  by  the  use  of  commercially  pre- 
pared preparations  known  as  pure  cultures.  A full  set  of  directions 
accompany  each  bottle  or  package  of  material,  so  that  all  that  is 
necessary  is  to  carry  them  out.  The  soils  of  Macon  County  are 
abundantly  supplied  with  these  germs,  so  that  inoculation  is  not 
necessary. 

The  second  reason  for  their  great  popularity  is  that  the  seed 
are  very  rich  in  nitrogenous  (muscle-building)  material;  so  there- 
fore, there  is  no  foodstuff  to  take  its  place — none  that  will  answer 
just  as  well  from  every  point  of  view  for  feeding  all  kinds  of  ani- 
mals. 

Cultivation 

When  sown  broadcast  they  require  no  cultivation.  When  in  drills, 
as  heretofore  referred  to,  they  are  greatly  improved  by  two  or  three 
shallow  workings,  sufficient  to  keep  the  weeds  down  and  the  soil 
mellow.  They  will  soon  cover  the  ground. 

Harvesting 

As  a hay  crop,  the  cow  pea  should  be  to  the  South  what  the  red 
clover  is  to  the  North. 

The  stems  are  quite  succulent,  and  care  must  be  taken  or  the  leaves 
will  drop  off  before  the  stems  are  sufficiently  dry  to  store  away. 

When  to  Cut. — The  best  time  to  cut  is  when  the  first  pods  begin 
to  turn  yellow.  There  are  a great  variety  of  ways  to  save  the  hay, 
many  of  which  are  good,  but  I like  this  one  the  best.  Never  cut  a 
large  quantity  down  when  the  weather  is  threatening  rain,  as  the 
curing  process  cannot  be  rushed  as  in  other  hays. 

Begin  cutting  as  early  in  the  morning  as  the  .dew  is  off.  (Never 
cut  wet  vines  for  hay,  as  they  are  almost  sure  to  spoil.)  As  soon 


10 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  COW  PEA 


I 


AND  40  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT 


11 


as  the  top  vines  are  thoroughly  wilted,  run  over  them  with  a hay- 
tedder  or  something  that  will  turn  them.  A pitch  fork  is  excellent, 
but  slower  and  more  laborious.  If  the  weather  is  favorable  the  hay 
may  be  put  into  small  cocks  the  next  afternoon,  leaving  it  thus  three 
or  four  days  before  hauling  it  to  the  barn.  A good  plan  is  to  take 
some  of  the  largest  stems  between  the  thumbs  and  fingers,  giving 
them  a severe  twist;  if  any  juice  appears,  it  is  toe  wet  to  stack  or 
bale. 

Those  who  have  had  much  experience  with  saving  pea-vine  hay 
know  that  there  are  two  danger  points — under-dryin,g,  which  causes 
moulding  and  rotting  when  stored;  ovet-drying,  which  causes  all 
the  leaves  to  drop  off  in  handling  so  that  there  is  nothing  but  a pile 
of  stems  when  the  storage  place  is  reached.  In  either  case  the  feed- 
ing value  is  greatly  impaired  or  wholly  destroyed. 

Pea-vine  hay  goes  through  a sweating  process,  and  therefore 
should  be  put  into  small  stacks,  tipping  the  stacks  with  hay,  straw, 
or  some  such  material  sufficiently  deep  to  turn  the  water.  Allow 
it  to  remain  in  these  stacks  two  or  three  weeks. 

As  a Food  for  Stock 

The  following  table  I am  sure  will  interest  all  feeders  of  live  stock, 
and  especially  in  the  South  where  pea  hay  can  be  so  abundantly  and 
easily  made. 

FLESH,  FAT  AND  MILK  FORMERS  IN  100  POUNDS  OF 
AIRY-DRY  SUBSTANCE 


TOTAL  NUTRIENTS 

PROTEIN 

FATS,  ETHER 

EXTRACT  1 

NITROGEN,  FREE 
EXTRACT 

CRUDE  FIBRE 

DIGESTIBLE 

nutrients 

h 

O 

ai 

Pl, 

CO 

h 

< 

u. 

NITROGEN 
FREE  EXTRACT 

Red  Clover  Hay 

Cow  Pea  Vine  Hay. 

12  50 
14  43 

2 43 
2 49 

40  43 

41  42 

26  81 
21  54 

6 17 
9 31 

1 03 
1 24 

23  28 
29  14 

12  78 
9 24 

Difference  in  favor, 
of  the  Cow  Pea. . 

1 93 

06 

79 

S 14 

21 

6 06 

I have  been  much  interested  in  the  exploitation  of  alfalfa  meal, 
corn-falfa,  Arab  Horse  Feed,  Renofalfa,  and  a number  of  others, 
the  majority  of  v/hich  consist  of  finely  ground-up  leaves  and  stems 
of  alfalfa,  with  a certain  quantity  of  crushed  grain  (oats,  corn,  rye, 
barley,  etc.)  mixed  in.  Where  it  is  properly  done  it  makes  not  only 
a highly  nutritious,  palatable,  and  an  easily  digested  food,  but  one 
convenient  to  handle  and  in  many  other  ways  desirable. 


12 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  COW  PEA 


Alfalfa  like  the  pea  vine  sheds  its  leaves  easily  when  dry,  so  it  is 
reduced  to  bare  stems  very  often  before  reaching  the  consumer,  and 
especially  if  it  is  handled  much;  hence,  the  above  measures  are  re- 
sorted to  in  order  to  get  its  full  value. 

I have  often  thought  of  the  almost  unlimited  possibilities  Macon 
County  has  in  this  direction.  Pea  vines  can  be  so  easily  grown 
and  the  yield  is  so  good  that  several  medium-sized  mills  could  be 
kept  busy  grinding  the  leaves,  stems,  and  peas  (if  desired)  into 
meal.  A small  percentage  of  crushed  oats  and  corn  could  be  mixed 
with  it,  plus  a bit  of  cotton  seed  meal,  peanut  meal,  velvet  bean  meal, 
etc. 

For  stock  this  would  make  a feed  unsurpassed  in  milk,  flesh,  and 
fat-forming  properties,  and  I am  sure  it  would  be  at  a cost  below  the 
average  mixed  feed.  In  fact,  if  the  vines  have  many  peas  on  them 
and  the  whole  is  ground  up  together,  it  is  almost  a complete  balanced 
ration  within  itself. 

Cow  Pea  Ensilage 

For  ensilage  cow  peas  alone  have  not  proven  a success,  not  from 
Tthe  fact  that  they  will  not  make  good  ensilage,  but  the  vines  form 
such  a tangled  mass  that  it  is  almost  impossible  to  cut  them;  and 
without  cutting  they  do  not  pack  well,  the  air  being  allowed  to  come 
In,  causing  them  to  mould,  turn  slick,  and  rot.  Where  they  are 
:grown  with  corn  or  sorghum  they  can  be  handled  much  easier;  cut 
and  packed  quite  satisfactorily,  and  they  make  a superior  quality  of 
ensilage. 

As  Food  for  Man 

As  a food  for  man,  it  may  be  prepared  in  a sufficient  number  of 
ways  to  suit  the  most  fastidious  palate. 

From  the  following  table  below  we  see  that  it  compares  most 
favorably,  in  points  of  nutrition,  with  the  much-prized  Boston  bean. 


Water 

Protein 

(Muscle  Builders) 

Carbohydrates 
("Fat  Formers) 

Calories 
(Heat  UnitsJ 

Boston  Bean  

12.6 

13.0 

22.5 

21.4 

59.6 

60.8 

1.605 

1.590 

Cow  Pea  

Cooking 


We  take  pleasure  in  submitting  below  forty  recipes  which 
have  been  carefully  tested  as  to  their  value,  and  I am  sure  will  be 
found  helpful  in  the  preparation  of  this  delicious  vegetable: 

No.  1 — Boiled  Peas  with  Bacon 

Wash  the  desired  quantity  of  peas  to  be  cooked  in  cold  water,  put  in 


AND  40  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT 


13 


iron  pot  or  stew-pan,  cover  with  cold  water,  drop  in  a piece  of  fat 
oacon,  boil  slowly  until  tender;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  (if  the 
bacon  is  not  sufficiently  salty  to  supply  the  required  amount) ; sim- 
mer slowly  until  ready  to  serve. ' A small  piece  of  butter  will  add 
greatly  to  their  flavor. 

No.  2 — Baked  Peas 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  boiling;  when  half  done  pour  into  the 
baking  pan;  season  with  butter,  pepper,  and  to  every  pint  of  peas 
add  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a pinch  of  sugar;  scar  the 
piece  of  bacon  and  half  bury  it  in  the  middle  of  the  dish;  cook  slowly 
until  thoroughly  done  to  a delicate  brown;  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

No.  3 — Creamed  Peas  (Delicious) 

Soak  one  pint  of  peas  in  cold  v/ater  over  night  or  until  the  hulls 
rub  off  easily;  free  them  from  the  skins  by  rubbing  them  between  the 
hands;  continue  washing  in  cold  water  until  all  the  skins  are  removed; 
put  in  vessel  to  cook  (porcelain  or  granite  stew-pan  preferable)  with 
just  enough  water  to  cover  them;  boil  slowly  until  thoroughly  done; 
pass  through  a colander;  season  with  a scant  teaspoonful  of  salt;  a 
pinch  of  pepper;  one-half  a teacupful  of  pure  cream;  a heaping  tea- 
spoonful of  brown  sugar  or  two  of  syrup;  a small  piece  of  butter 
may  be  added  if  not  rich  enough;  whip  the  same  as  for  creamed  po- 
tatoes; serve  hot. 

No.  4 — Griddle  Cake  No.  1 

Mix  together  one  cup  of  boiling  milk,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  one 
cup  of  pea  meal  which  has  been  previously  soaked  in  cold  water  for 
one-half  hour,  and  boil  until  thoroughly  done;  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  the  same  amount  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
beaten  egg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  one  cup  of  flour, 
or  enough  to  make  a stiff  batter.  Cook  in  griddle  pans  and  serve 
while  hot. 

Note — It  improves  the  lightness  to  whip  vigorously  before  stirring  in  the  baking 
powder.  Sour  milk  and  soda  can  be  used  the  same  as  for  other  griddle  cakes. 

No.  5 — Alabama  Baked  (Delicious) 

Hull  the  peas  the  same  as  recommended  for  creaming;  put  in  small 
piece  of  fat  pork;  boil  the  peas  until  about  half  done;  pour  into  baking 
dish:  season  to  taste  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt;  put  tablespoonful 
of  sugar  to  every  quart  of  peas;  put  in  oven;  cook  slowly  until  well 
done  and  brown;  serve  hot  or  cold. 

No.  6 — Hopping  John 

Take  one  quart  of  peas  and  a scant  pint  of  rice;  boil  the  two  separ- 
ately until  both  are  nearly  done;  turn  the  two  together  and  season 


14 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  COW  PEA 


with  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a walnut,  a pinch  of  pepper  and  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  salt.  (If  bacon  is  desired,  put  one-half  pound  into 
peas  when  first  put  on  to  cook.  The  salt  in  this  case  should  be 
omitted.)  A beef  bone  can  be  used  instead  of  bacon,  if  desired,  and, 
to  my  mind,  adds  much  to  the  flavor.  (Double  the  salt  in  this  case  or 
proportion  it  to  the  size  of  the  bone.) 

No.  7— Boiled  Green  Peas 

Select  those  that  are  about  two-thirds  grown,  do  not  shell  until 
ready  to  cook;  wash  in  cold  water  and  drain  them;  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  add  one  heaping  teaspooiiful  of  brown  sugar  to  eveiy 
quart  of  peas;  salt  to  the  taste. 

When  tender  pour  into  a colander  and  drain;  put  them  into  a vege- 
table dish,  and  quite  into  the  center  of  the  peas  put  a lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  a walnut  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream.  Garnish 
with  mint  and  parsley;  serve  hot. 

Caution — Do  not  gather  or  shell  this  delicious  vegetable  long  be- 
fore it  is  dressed,  or  much  of  the  delicate  flavor  will  be  lost. 

No.  8 — Plain  Pea  Pudding 

Soak  one-half  pint  of  split  peas  over  night;  put  in  an  earthen  dish; 
cover  with  hot  water;  add  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  salt;  cook  thoroughly  done  and  brown;  garnish  with 
parsley  and  serve. 

No.  9 — Griddle  Cakes  No.  2 

Boil  the  desired  quantity  of  half-ripe  peas  until  tender;  mash  to  a 
pulp  and  pass  through  a strainer;  to  every  cupful  of  strained  peas 
add  one  of  boiling  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  heaping 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  when  sufflciently  cool,  one  egg  well 
beaten;  then  stir  in  one  cupful  of  flour  which  has  had  two  tablespoons 
of  baking  powder  mixed  into  it  by  passing  several  times  through 
a sieve.  If  the  batter  is  too  thick,  add  a little  milk;  if  too  thin,  a 
little  flour.  Bake  on  a hot  griddle  and  serve  Jiot  with  syrup. 

No.  10 — A Dish  for  Dyspeptics 

Peas  are  deliciously  prepared  without  grease  of  any  kind  as  fol- 
lows: hull  the  same  as  recommended  for  creaming;  choose  the  large 
white  Crowders;  boil  slowly  in  soft  water. in  a covered  vessel  for  sev- 
eral hours,  or  until  the  peas  begin  to  fall  to  pieces,  and  the  water 
(which  should  barely  cover  the  peas  when  done,  and  not  stand  above 
them)  is  viscid  and  jelly-like.  Add  a little  salt  and  nothing  else,  un- 
less at  the  proper  time  you  have  chosen  to  put  in  a few  sweet  or  Irish 


AND  40  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT 


15 


potatoes  to  eat  with  them.  Many  stomachs  can  retain  and  digest 
them  in  this  way  when  they  could  not  do  so  in  any  other. 

No.  11 — Pea  Soup  with  Celery 

One  quarter-pound  each  of  onions,  carrots,  or  parsnips;  two  ounces 
of  celery;  three-quarter  pounds  of  split  peas;  a little  mint  shredded 
fine;  one  teaspoonful  of  coarse  brown  sugar;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste; 
four  quarts  of  water  or  liquor  in  which  a joint  of  meat  has  been 
boiled.  Fry  the  vegetables  for  ten  minutes  in  a little  butter  or  drip- 
pings, previously  cutting  them  up  in  small  pieces;  pour  the  water  on 
them,  and  when  boiling  add  the  peas.  Let  them  simmer  until  thor- 
oughly done;  add  the  sugar,  seasoning,  and  mint;  boil  for  a quarter 
of  an  hour,  and  serve. 

Note  “A”^ — -Tastes  differ  so  widely  as  to  pepper  and  salt  that  it  has  been  thought 
wise  not  to  specify  the  amounts  to  be  used  in  these  recipes,  except  in  a few  instances. 

No.  12 — Peas  in  the  Pod 

Top  and  tail  with  a sharp  knife;  cut  in  short  pieces  and  cook  ten- 
der; add  a little  salt  v/hile  cooking;  drain;  butter  freely  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  At  this  point  a half  teacupful  of 
sweet  cream  to  every  quart  of  peas  will  greatly  improve  the  flavor. 
Let  simmer  twenty  minutes,  and  serve. 

No.  13 — Peas  in  the  Pod  With  Pork 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  the  above;  parboil  in  v/ater  made  slightly 
salty  for  fifteen  minutes;  drain  off  the  water;  add  a piece  of  fat  salt 
pork  two  or  three  inches  square;  cook  slowly  until  soft;  take  out  the 
pork,  and  season  with  pepper,  and  serve. 

No.  14 — Boston  Baked  Peas 

Take  a quart  of  large  white  peas;  put  in  a stew-pan  and  cover 
with  luke  warm  water;  place  on  the  back  of  the  range  early  in  the 
morning;  at  noon,  if  the  heat  has  been  sufficient,  they  will  be  slightly 
soft  to  the  pressure;  now  have  ready  an  earthen  bean  pot,  which 
comes  for  the  purpose;  put  a pound  of  uncooked  salt  pork  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  jar;  add  pepper  only,  as  it  will  receive  salt  enough  from 
the  pork;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  New  Orleans  molasses  to  give 
a fine  color;  fill  v/ith  water  and  set  in  a moderate  oven,  and  bake 
slowly  for  six  hours,  occasionally  adding  hot  water  if  necessary  to 
keep  moist. 

No.  15 — Croquettes 

Season  cold  mashed  peas  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg;  beat  to 
a cream  with  a tablespoonful  of  melted  butter  to  every  cupful  of 
peas;  add  two  or  three  well-beaten  eggs  and  some  minced  parsley; 


16 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  COW  PEA 


roil  into  small  balls  and  dip  in  beaten  egg;  roll  in  bread  crumbs  or 
cracker  dust;  fry  to  a rich  brown  in  hot  fat;  drain,  and  serve  while 
hot. 

No.  16 — Green  Pea  Soup 

Put  two  quarts  of  green  peas  with  four  quarts  of  water;  boil  for 
two  hours,  renewing  waste  by  adding  boiling  water  when  needed; 
strain  from  liquor;  return  this  to  the  pot;  rub  the  peas  through  a 
sieve;  chop  an  onion  fine  and  a small  sprig  of  mint  and  parsley;  let 
boil  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  stir  a teaspoonful  of  flour  into  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter;  mix  well  and  stir  carefully  into 
the  boiling  soup;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  serve  with  well-buttered 
sippets  of  toasted  bread. 

No.  17 — Plain  Pea  Soup 

Take  one  quart  of  hulled  peas;  boil  until  perfectly  soft,  allowing 
four  quarts  of  water  to  one  of  peas;  mash  peas;  add  flour  and  butter 
rubbed  together;  also  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  cut  cold  bread  into 
small  pieces;  toast  and  drop  into  soup,  with  a bit  of  minced  parsley. 

No.  18 — Pea  Soup  No.  2 

Put  in  a sauce-pan  two  ounces  of  bacon  chopped  fine,  six  onions 
peeled  and  chopped;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  add  four  quarts  of  hot 
water;  boil  twenty  minutes;  meantime  rub  through  a sieve  a quart  of 
peas  that  have  been  previously  boiled;  add  them  to  the  first  ingredi- 
ents; boil  one  hour  longer,  and  serve  hot. 

No.  19 — Pea  Bouillon 

Take  six  pounds  of  round  of  beef,  three  small  carrots,  three  tur- 
nips, nine  small  onions,  one  large  onion  stuck  with  four  cloves,  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  two  pints  of  peas  (one  shelled,  the  other  in 
pod),  one  small  head  of  cabbage,  three  large  tomatoes,  four  quarts  of 
water,  pepper,  salt,  flournoodles,  rice,  or  sago;  put  beef  into  the 
water  whole,  and  heat  slowly  to  a boil;  skim;  dip  out  a pint  of  the 
liquor  left  with  the  beef  and  put  by  for  the  cooking  of  the  vegetables; 
add  to  the  liquor  left  with  the  beef  one  sliced  carrot,  one  turnip  also 
sliced,  the  large  onion  and  the  herbs;  stew  slowly  four  hours;  take 
out  the  beef  and  keep  hot  over  boiling  water;  strain  the  soup,  pulp- 
ing the  vegetables;  cool,  skim,  and  return  to  the  fire,  and  when  it 
heats,  add  noodles,  boiled  rice,  or  soaked  German  sago;  simmer  five 
minutes;  pour  into  hot  soup  tureen,  and  serve. 

No.  20 — Pea  Meal  Soup 

An  almost  endless  variety  of  delicious  soups  can  be  easily  and 


AND  40  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT 


17 


quickly  made  by  thickening  any  soup  stock  with  pea  meal  (browned 
or  unbrowned),  permitting  the  same  to  cook  slowly  until  the  meal  is 
done. 

No.  21 — Fritters 

One  cup  of  pea  meal  previously  soaked  and  simmered  until  done, 
one  pint  of  milk,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  to  the  cold  peas  add 
the  yelks  of  eggs,  sugar,  butter,  and  salt,  also  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  which  have  been  previously  whipped  to  a froth;  add  a pinch  of 
pepper;  fry  in  teaspoonfuls,  in  plenty  of  lard  made  hot  for  the  pur- 
pose to  a rich  brown;  serve  with  cream  or  lemon  sauce.  If  inclined 
to  fall  to  pieces,  add  a little  flour  to  the  batter. 

No.  22 — Succotash 

Take  one  pint  of  large  white  peas  after  they  have  been  hulled, 
and  cook  tender;  cut  off  the  grains  from  three  ears  of  corn;  add  one 
large  tablespoonful  of  floured  butter,  two  of  thick  cream;  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste;  add  one  cup  of  milk;  boil  corn  and  peas  until  both  are 
thoroughly  done;  add  the  milk;  when  this  boils  add  the  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt;  simmer  ten  minutes  and  serve. 

No.  23— Pea  Salad 

Take  a scant  quart  of  large  white  peas  after  they  have  been  hulled 
and  thoroughly  cooked;  put  into  a salad  dish  and  season  as  follows: 
To  two  tablespoonfuls  of  best  salad  oil  add  one-half  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  same  of  pepper,  made  mustard  and  salt,  and  about  the  same  of 
Royal  celery  salt;  rub  to  smooth  paste  and  whip  in,  teaspoonful  at 
a time,  five  teaspoonfuls  of  best  vinegar;  when  thoroughly  mixed, 
pour  upon  salad  and  serve. 

No.  24— Salad  No.  2 

Prepare  peas  the  same  as  for  the  above;  to  one  quart  add  two- 
thirds  of  a cup  of  sour  cream,  two  well-beaten  eggs;  season  to  taste 
with  sugar,  a pinch  of  salt  and  mustard;  a couple  of  stalks  of  celery 
should  be  chopped  and  added  to  it,  or  a tablespoonful  of  celery  seed. 
This  is  very  fine  and  most  excellent  for  picnics.  ) 

No.  25 — Roast  Pork  with  Peas 

Choose  a leg  of  fine  young  pork;  cut  a gash  in  the  knuckle  with 
a sharp  knife  and  fill  the  space  with  sage,  pepper,  salt  and  an  onion 
chopped;  when  half  done  score  the  skin  in  slashes,  but  do  not  cut 
deeper  than  the  outer  rind;  let  cook  until  nearly  done;  pour  off  the 
excess  of  fat;  add  one  quart  of  white  peas  that  have  been  previously 


18 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  COW  PEA 


hulled,  and  cook  slowly  until  all  is  quite  done  and  brown;  serve  with 
apple  sauce. 

No.  26 — Pea  Coffee 

Brown  some  peas  in  the  oven  the  same  as  for  green  coffee;  to  a 
given  quantity  (the  strength  desired  determining  this)  add  one-third 
pure  coffee;  boil  and  clarify  the  same  as  for  pure  coffee.  Some  like 
it  just  as  well  if  the  pure  coffee  is  left  out  altogether. 

No.  27 — French  Peas 

Soak,  hull,  and  parboil  one  quart  of  shelled  peas  until  tender; 
drain;  add  boiling  w'ater  enough  to  keep  from  burning,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  one  whole  onion,  one-half  handful  of  parsley 
tied;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  cook  slowly  for  an  hour;  when  ready 
to  serve,  take  out  the  onion  and  parsley;  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  a teacupful  of  thick  cream  into  which  a tablespoonful  of 
flour  has  been  stirre^d;  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar;  boil  until  thick, 
and  serve  hot. 

No.  28 — Granada  Stew 

Boil  a four-pound  soup  bone  until  all  the  meat  drops  from  the 
bones;  free  from  the  liquor  all  the  bones;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste; 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  parsley,  one  pint  of  white  pota- 
toes, one  pint  of  sweet  potatoes,  three  stalks  of  celery  chopped  fine, 
and  one  pint  of  peas;  mince  the  meat  and  cook  all  together  until 
the  vegetables  are  thoroughly  tender;  serve  hot. 

No.  29 — Pea  Chowder 

Take  one  pint  of  raw  sweet  corn,  one  pint  of  green  peas  ; cut  each 
row  of  kernels  and  scrape  The  raw  corn  from  the  cob;  slice  and  add 
a pint  of  white  potatoes  to  the  water  in  which  the  scraped  cobs  have 
been  previously  boiled;  cook  until  the  potatoes  are  nearly  done; 
add  the  corn  and  the  peas  which  have  been  previously  cooked  until 
quite  tender  (do  not  add  the  water  in  which  the  peas  were  cooked); 
add  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  pint  of  milk,  and  one-half  pint 
of  cream,  into  which  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  has  been  mixed;  add 
corn  and  milk;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  return  to  fire  and  boil  five 
minutes;  remove  from  the  fire;  mince,  and  add  the  whites  of  too  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  also  the  yelks,  after  rubbing  through  a strainer;  serve 
hot  with  buttered  croutons. 

No.  30 — Chow  Chow  of  Peas 

Take  one  quart  of  tender  peas  in  the  pod,  one  quart  of  shelled 
green  peas,  one  quart  of  green  tomatoes  chopped,  one  quart  of 
chopppd  onions,  one  pint  of  chopped  peppers  (half  green  and  half 
ripe),  half  a cup  of  white  mustard  seed,  half  a cup  of  salt,  and  four 
stalks  of  celery  chopped  fine;  add  sugar,  and  curry  powder  to  taste. 
The  peas  should  be  put  in  cold  water  and  brought  to  a boil;  drop  in 


AND  40  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT 


19 


a lump  of  soda  the  size  of  a pea;  boil  until  about  one-third  cooked; 
drain  off  water  thoroughly;  wash  in  cold  water;  drain  and  chop  be- 
fore adding  the  other  ingredients;  cover  with  cold  vinegar. 

No.  31 — Chartreuse  of  Peas 

Line  a plain  mould  or  tin  basin  (the  desired  size)  with  thin  slices 
of  raw  bacon;  have  prepared  some  half-boiled  snap  peas,  carrots  and 
turnips,  cut  the  latter  into  small  slices  and  distribute  them  around 
the  edges  and  the  bottom  of  the  pan  about  an  inch  thick;  fill  up  the 
middle  with  some  chopped  veal,  or  what  is  still  better,  half 
and  half  of  chopped  veal  and  fresh  pork  thoroughly  mixed  to- 
gether after  seasoning  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a dash  of 
sage;  put  a plate  over  the  top  of  the  mould;  tie  a cloth  over  that,  and 
put  into  a steamer,  and  steam  for  an  hour  and  a half,  turn  out  on 
a platter,  and  serve  with  cream  of  white  sauce. 

Note — Pea  meal  can  be  made  by  grinding  the  peas  in  a new  or  well  cleaned  cof- 
fee mill.  For  brown  pea  meal  the  peas  are  simply  roasted  before  grinding. 

No.  32 — Baked  Pea  Soup 

Take  cold  baked  peas;  add  twice  the  quantity  of  cold  water,  and 
let  them  simmer  until  soft;  when  done  add  half  as  much  stewed  to- 
matoes; rub  all  through  a puree  strainer;  add  more  water  until  the 
right  consistency  is  obtained;  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  a lit- 
tle vinegar  and  mustard. 

No.  33 — Roasted  Peas 

Take  peas  when  the  pods  have  just  begun  to  turn  yellow;  put  in 
moderaie  o'^en  until  thoroughly  roasted;  serve  the  same  as  for  roasted 
peanuts. 

No.  34 — Old-Fashioned  Pea  Hot-Pot 

1V2  lbs.  of  beefsteak  or  shoulder  of  lamb. 

V2  lb.  fat  bacon  cut  in  thick  slices. 

1V2  lbs.  sweet  or  Irish  potatoes. 

1 teaspoon  flour. 

2 medium-sized  onions. 

1 pint  of  soaked  and  hulled  peas. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Peel  and  cut  the  potatoes  into  chuncky  pieces;  mix  the  salt  and 
pepper  with  the  flour;  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  and  roll  them 
in  the  seasoning.  Place  all  the  ingredients  in  the  dish  in  layers, 
having  peas  for  the  last  layer;  add  one  or  two  lamb  kidneys  if  possi- 
ble to  enrich  the  gravy;  put  in  enough  water  or  stock  to  nearly  fill 
the  deep  baking  dish.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  done,  which  will 
require  not  less  than  three  hours.  Increase  the  heat  sufficient  to 
brown  the  top.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  cooked,  wrapping  a nap- 
kin around  the  outside  before  sending  it  to  the  table. 


20 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  COW  PEA 


No.  35 — Dried  Pea  Roast  (Very  Fine) 

V2  lb.  dried  peas  (soaked  and  hulled). 

14  lb.  salt  pork.  y 

14  lb.  grated  cheese.  / 

114  cups  bread  crumbs. 

1 egg. 

1 teaspoon  salt. 

Vs  teaspoon  pepper. 

Wash  and  score  the  pork;  put  in  kettle  with  the  peas;  cover  with 
cold  water;  cook  slowly  until  thoroughly  done.  Take  out  the  pork; 
mash  the  beans;  add  the  cheese,  bread  crumbs,  egg,  and  seasoning; 
mix  well,  and  put  into  a buttered  dish.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs 
and  pieces  of  the  pork.  Bake  one-half  hour  in  a pan  of  hot  water. 

This  roast  may  be  served  hot  or  cold,  and  with  tomato  sauce  or 
catsup  if  desired.  If  not  rich  enough  add  a small  lump  of  butter. 
This  makes  an  excellent  substitute  for  meat. 

No.  36 — Cow  Pea  Loaf  No.  2 

2 cups  peas  hulled  and  cooked  done. 

1 stalk  celery  or  1 teaspoon  celery  seed. 

2 cups  soft  bread  crumbs. 

Vs  cup  finely-chopped  onion. 

4 tablespoons  bacon  fat. 

1 scant  tablespoon  butter. 

2 tablespoons  flour. 

V2  cup  water. 

Mash  and  whip  peas  until  light;  melt  two  tablespoons  of  fat  in 
frying  pan;  add  the  bread  crumbs;  stir  until  all  the  fat  has  been 
absorbed;  add  the  peas;  mix  thoroughly.  Cook  the  oinion  in  the  re- 
maining tv/o  tablespoons  of  fat;  add  the  flour  and  water,  and  boil. 

Add  to  the  first  mixture;  make  into  a loaf;  cover  with  fine  bread 
crumbs;  lay  a few  strips  of  bacon  on  top,  and  brown;  serve  hot  with 
bacon  gravy  or  tomato  sauce. 

No.  37 — Cow  Pea  Oriental  Stew  ' 

Take — 

IV2  cups  peas — soak  over  night  and  hull. 

4 cup  rice. 

14  cup  macaroni.  — — 

1 cup  tomatoes. 

1 medium-size  onion,  minced. 

4 tablespoons  drippings. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


AND  40  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT 


21 


Brown  the  minced  onion  in  frying  pan  with  the  drippings;  add 
all  the  other  ingredients;  cook  slowly  until  all  is  well  done;  serve 
hot. 

No.  38 — Cow  Pea  Savory 

Takei — 

4 tablespoons  butter,  or  two  of  drippings  and  two  of  butter. 

1 cupful  hulled  cow  peas. 

1 bay  leaf. 

3 sprigs  parsley.  , 

1 onion  chopped  fine. 

IV2  cups  highly — seasoned  tomato  sauce. 

Salt,  peppe'r,  and  powdered  mace  to  taste. 

Fry  the  onions  in  three  tablespoons  of  the  butter  or  drippings. 
Turn  all  the  ingredients  together  and  cook  slowly  until  the  peas  are 
done;  turn  into  a hot  dish,  and  pour  oven  the  tomato  sauce;  serve 
at  once. 

No.  39— Cow  Pea  Loaf 
(A  fine  substitute  for  meat). 

Take — 

2 cups  of  hulled  peas,  preferably  the  white  varieties. 

V2  cup  grated  cheese'. 

1 tablespoon  finely  chopped  green  sweet  pepper. 

1 tablespoon  butter. 

1 tablespoon  finely-minced  onion. 

Cook  the  peas  until  thoroughly  done;  whip  until  light  like  mashed 
potatoes;  cook  the  pepper  and  onion  in  the  butter,  but  do  not  brown 
it.  Add  a pinch  of  salt;  stir  ail  together;  form  into  a loaf,  and 
bake  in  a moderate  oven  until  brown. 

Baste  frequently  with  butter  and  water.  When  thoroughly  done 
slice  and  s^rve  hot  or  cold  as  desired. 

No.  40 — Cow  Pea  Custard  Pie 
(Delicious) 

1 pint  of  cow  peas. 

2 eggs  be'aten  li,ghtly. 

1 lemon  (juice). 

1 pint  rich  sweet  milk. 

1 tablespoon  flour  (scant). 

1 tablespoon  butter. 

V2  teaspoon  salt. 

Spice  to  taste. 

Take  on^  pint  of  hulled  cow  peas ; cook  until  thoroughly  done ; 


22 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  COW  PEA 


mash  and  whip  until  smooth  and  light;  add  the  eggs,  lemon  juice, 
flour,  salt,  and  spices.  Put  on  the  milk,  sugar  and  butter,  and 
bring  to  a boil  slowly  ; boil  three  minutes.  Stir  in  the  pea  mixture; 
boil  up  once;  if  too  thin  add  a little  flour;  if  too  thick,  a little  sweet 
milk,  until  it  is  the*  consistency  of  very  thick  cream.  Line  a pie-tin 
with  rich  paste,  and  bake  until  the  crust  is  done. 

This  quantity  should  make  two  pies.  Bake  with  one  crust  only. 

The  spices  and  lemon  juice  may  be  left  out  if  desired.  It  also  may 
be  cupped  until  cold,  and  served  with  fruit  or  jelly. 

DISEASE 

Neocosmospora  Vasinfecta;  var.  tracheiphila  (Pea  Wilt) 

This  is  without  doubt  the  worst  fun,gus  enemy  of  the  pea  in  this 
section.  It  is  considel-ed  the  same  disease  as  the  cotton  wilt,  and 
affects  the  cow  pea  similarly  to  that  of  the  cotton.  The  stem  begins 
to  turn  black,  the  leaves  droop  as  if  suffering  for  water;  finally  the 
whole  plant  withers  away  and  dies.  In  large'  acerages  of  peas  often 
an  acre  or  more  will  be  destroyed  by  the  wilt. 

REMEDY 

Intelligent  breeding  and  selection  of  resistant  varieties  have  proven 
the  most  sensible  and  satisfactory  method  of  combating  this  disease. 
The  iron  pea  sent  out  by  the  United  States  Department  of  Agri- 
culture a few  years  ago,  is  one  of  the  be'st  examples  of  what  may  be 
accomplished  by  scientific  breeding,  as  this  pea  may  be  planted  in 
the  worst  wilt-infested  land,  and  scarcely  a single  vine  is  attacked 
and  overcome  by  the  wilt. 

SELECTION 

This  method  may  be  successfully  carried  on  by  any  farmer  who  is  a 
good  observer:  He  will  see  that  no  difference  how  badly  his  peas 

wilt,  there  will  be  one  or  a few  stalks  that  resist  the  vdlt  with  im- 
punity, they  grow  and  seem  to  thrive.  These  are  the  ones  from  which 
to  save  seed.  Second,  save  only  large,  plump,  well  grown  peas  for 
seed,  as  small  poorly  matured  ones  will  bring  plants  low  in  vitality, 
which  will  invariably  succumb  to  the  attack  of  wilt.  Third,  the  land 
should  be  well  prepared,  properly  fertilized,  and  vigorously  cultivated 
so  that  they  will  grow  off  fast  and  not  be  so  susceptible  to  disease. 

HETERODERA  RADICICOLA  (ROOT  KNOT) 

This  is  almost  as  destructive'  as  the  wilt  in  infested  land,  although 
it  has  not  done  much  damage  in  this  county.  The  precautions  and 
remedies  are  esse'ntially  identical  as  for  the  wilt;  so,  therefore,  it  is 
not  necessary  to  repeat  them. 


AND  40  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT 


23 


CERCOSPORA  CRUENTA  (SMOKY  SPOT) 

This  is  a spot  disease  of  the  foilage,  appearing  mainly  on  the 
underside  of  the  leaf.  On  poorly  prepared  lands  and  plants  low  in  vi- 
tality it  completely  defoliates  them. 

REMEDY 

Prepare  the  land  well;  select  good  seed;  fertilize  properly  and 
cultivate  fast  to  keep  them  growing,  and  you  will  suffer  but  little! 
if  any  loss  from  this  trouble. 

There  are  two  or  three  other  leaf-spot  diseases  that  effect  the 
pea,  but  they  are  of  minor  importance  and  therefore  do  not  deserve 
to  be  mentioned  here.  They  yield  readily  to  the  same  treatment 
as  recommended  for  the  “smoky  spot”  disease. 

While  collecting  in  Peinsacola,  Fla.,  this  summer  I discovered  one 
patch  of  cow  peas  badly  infested  with  a true  rust  Uromyces  append- 
iculatus.  Both  the  leaf  and  leaf-stems  were  badly  attacked,  and  the 
plants  were!  completed  defoliated.  As  I observed  it  there,  it  is 
likely  to  become  a serious  trouble  wherever  the  cow  pea  is  grown.  I 
have  had  no  reports  of  this  rust  appearing  in  our  county,  or  even  in 
our  State;  but  it  is  a disease  worth  watching,  and  at  its  first  appear- 
ance, it  should  be'  stamped  out  by  pulling  up  and  burning  all  affected 
plants. 

Seed  for  planting  should  not  be  saved  from  this  field. 

REMEDY 

The  same  treatment  as  recommended  for  “smoky  spot”  will  over- 
' come  this  trouble. 

INSECT  ENEMIES 

There  are  but  few  insect  enemies  of  the  cow  pea  in  Macon  Coun- 
ty, one  of  the  worst  being  Bruchus  (Pea  Weevil)  which  is  so  destruc- 
tive to  stored  peas.  The  best  remedy  is  to  put  the  peas  in  a tight 
bin  or  box  and  fumigate!  with  bisulphide  of  carbon  (C  S 2).  For  a bin 
holding  twenty-five  or  thirty  bushels,  pour  one  teacupful  of  the  bi- 
sulphide into  a soup-plate  or  saucer;  set  on  top  of  the  peas  about 
the  middle  of  the  bin,  and  cover  up  the  bin  with  a tight-fitting  lid; 
leave  for  several  days  without  opening. 

Another  very  effective  method  is  to  spread  a layer  of  peas,  six  or 
eight  inches  thick,  in  the  bin  or  box ; pour  over  them  a little  bisulphide, 
then  another  layer  of  peas,  and!  so  on  until  the  bin  is  full  or  until 
all  the  peas  have  bee*n  used;  cover  tightly  and  leave  for  several  days 
without  opening. 


24 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  COW  PEA 


CAUTION — This  liquid  is  very  inflammable;  hence  no  smoking 
must  be  allowe'd,  or  lamps,  candles,  or  fire  of  any  kind  be  permitted 
when  handling  it  lest  a fri,ghtful  and  disastrous  explosion  may  oc- 
cur. It  is  also  vile-smelling  and  suffocatin,g ; so,  therefore,  as  little 
as  possible  should  be  inhaled. 

Heliothis  Armigera  (Corn-ear  Worm,  Boll  Worm,  etc.) 

This  is  the  well-known  worm  that  does  so  much  damage  to  cotton 
at  times.  While  it  is  common  all  over  the  South,  it  has  done  but 
little  damage  in  this  county.  This  worm  preys  upon  com,  cotton 
bolls,  tomatoes,  squashes,  potatoes,  beans,  and  peas. 

Rotation  of  crops  has  proven  the  most  effectual,  up  to  date;  also 
good  preparation  of  the  land,  proper  fertilization  and  rapid  culti- 
vation to  stimulate  the  crop  to  rapid  growth  and  early  maturity. 

Let  us  hope  that  every  farmer  will  set  about  at  once  to  make 
Macon  the  banner  county  for  the  growing  of  cow  peas,  because 
plenty  of  cow  peas  means  more  and  better  stock;  more  and  better 
stock  means  more  milk,  butter,  cheese,  and  beef,  and  greater  fertility 
of  the  soil;  the  increased  fertility  of  the  soil  means  larger  and 
better  crops  on  less  acreage,  and  therefore  less  labor;  larger  and 
better  crops  means  an  increased  amount  of  money  and  a happier 
and  more  contented  class  of  people. 


