Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


fro 

ItipfsY  of 
STATES  imlUtwhs  service 

MAY  2'-  1917 

EXPERIMENT 


□ □ 

11 

□ □ 


TUSKEGEE  NORMAL  AND  INDUSTRIAL  INSTITUTE 
EXPERIMENT  STATION  BULLETIN  34 


43  Ways  To 
Save  The  Wild 
Plum  Crop 


By 

G.  W.  CARVER,  M.  S.  Agr. 

Director 


nm 

ll 


Printed  by  Tuskegee  students  from  funds  supplied 
by  the  Ash  Fund,  established  in  memory  of 
Mrs.  Ellen  L.  Ash 


BULLETIN  34 


APRIL,  1917 


Forty-three  Ways  to  Save  the 
Wild  Plum  Crop 

By  G.  W.  Carver,  M.  S.  Agr.,  Director 

Nature  endows  or  blesses  each  State  or  section  with  an  indigenous 
flora  and  fauna  best  suited  to  that  particular  soil  and  climatic  con- 
ditions. 

Applying  the  above  to  Alabama,  Macon  and  adjoining  counties  have 
been  unusually  blessed  in  the  quantity,  variety  and  quality  of  its  wild 
plums.  They  vary  in  size  from  a half  to  one  inch  in  diameter,  and 
in  flavor  from  sugary  sweetness  to  sour  and  bitter.  In  color,  from 
lemon  yellow  to  crimson,  scarlet  and  black,  making  possibilities  for 
many  pleasing  combinations  for  the  eye  and  palate. 

I feel  safe  in  saying  that  in  Macon  County  alone  there  are  many 
hundred  bushels  of  plums  that  go  to  waste  every  year  that  there  is  a 
full  crop,  which  is  almost  one  year  with  another. 

In  a commercial  way  there  is  a great  opportunity  for  jam  and  jelly 
factories. 

No  fruit  improves  with  cultivation  more  satisfactorily  than  the  wild 
plum;  both  the  size  and  flavor  is  improved,  and  under  cultivation  some 
of  the  yellow  and  red  types  compare  favorably  in  size  with  the  Wild 
Goose  and  other  cultivated  varieties  of  that  class. 

In  comparison  with  some  of  the  standard  fruits  of  the  world  as 
to  food  and  dietetic  value,  one  is  at  a loss  to  know  why  so  valuable 
a fruit  has  been  and  is  being  so  sadly  neglected  and  allowed  prac- 
tically to  go  to  waste. 

Protein  Carbohydrates  Calories 
(Muscle  Fat  (Heat  units 

Name  of  Fruit  Water  builders)  formers)  Ash  in  1 pound 


Apples  84.6  .4  14.2  .3  290 

Blackberries  . . 86.3  1.3  10.0  .5  270 

Cherries  80.9  1.0  16.7  .6  365 

Pears  84.4  .6  14.2  .4  295 

Plums  78.4  1.0  20.1  .5  395 

(3) 


4 


SAVING  THE  PLUM  CROP 


A glance  at  the  above  table  shows  that  the  plum  in  some  respects 
is  higher  in  food  value  than  some  of  the  most  highly  prized  fruits 
in  the  list. 

No  fruit  makes  more  delicious  jams,  jellies,  preserves,  marmalades, 
etc.,  and  it  is  the  purpose  of  this  bulletin  to  set  forth  in  a practical 
way  a number  of  recipes  by  which  every  housewife  may  be  success- 
ful in  the  saving  of  this  splendid  article  of  food.  This  bulletin  is 
a revision  of  Bulletin  No.  12  issued  in  1907. 

Note. — Berry’s  Fruit  Recipes  have  offered  many  valuable  sug- 
gestions, and  I hereby  wish  to  gratefully  acknowledge  assistance. 

No.  1— CANNED  PLUMS 

These  may  be  used  for  puddings,  pies,  sauces,  tarts,  desserts,  etc. 

Select  firm  but  well  ripened  fruit,  prick  the  skin  in  several  places 
to  prevent  bursting  when  cooked.  Use  pound  for  pound  of  sugar  and 
fruit  where  an  especially  rich  sauce  is  wanted,  or  eight  quarts  of 
plums  and  two  quarts  of  sugar  can  be  used.  Add  just  water  enough 
to  melt  the  sugar;  add  a few  of  the  plums  at  a time;  cook  until 
tender,  and  carefully  remove  the  fruit  and  place  in  jars.  Fill  up  with 
syrup  and  seal.  Set  in  a dark  place  and  away  from  draughts  of  air  to 
prevent  the  jars  from  cracking. 

Note. — In  canning,  the  sugar  may  be  left  out  and  put  in  when 
prepared  for  the  table.  They  are  very  nice  this  way  and  no  one  need 
be  without  nice  plums  because  they  are  unable  to  get  the  sugar. 

No.  2— PLUM  JAM 

Select  only  nice,  well  ripened  fruit;  take  pound  for  pound  of  fruit 
and  sugar;  cover  the  fruit  with  boiling  water;  when  nearly  cold 
drain  and  add  the  sugar;  cook  slowly,  stirring  and  skimming  until  it 
is  thick  enough  for  the  juice  to  jelly  when  cold.  Pack  away  in  stone 
jars  or  glass  vessels,  store  in  a dark,  cold  place,  examine  from  time 
to  time  and  re-boil  if  inclined  to  sour. 

No.  3— PLUM  MARMALADE 

Prepare  the  plums  the  same  as  for  jam;  to  every  pound  of  plums 
add  one-half  of  either  apples  or  peaches,  cook  until  thoroughly 
tender  and  mash,  remove  the  seed  if  you  wish,  by  passing  through 
a colander  or  coarse  sieve.  Add  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar 
to  every  two  pounds  of  the  fruit  mixture;  boil  slowly  and  skim 
until  it  is  thick  like  the  jam;  season  to  taste  with  ground  cloves, 
cinnamon,  allspice  and  just  a suggestion  of  mace  and  nutmeg.  Pack 
away  the  same  as  recommended  for  jam. 


SAVING  THE  PLUM  CROP 


5 


No.  4 — MARMALADE  No.  2.  (Delicious) 

Take  fruit  as  follows:  two  pounds  of  plums,  one-half  pound  of 
apples  that  have  been  peeled  and  cored;  one-half  pound  of  mulberries; 
one-fourth  pound  of  the  wild  black  cherries;  one  pound  of  peaches 
after  peeling  and  “seeding”;  one-half  pound  of  blackberries.  Wash, 
drain  and  add  just  water  enough  to  keep  from  burning  while  cooking, 
boil  until  tender;  remove  the  seed  and  add  four  and  one-half  pounds 
of  sugar;  boil  slowly  and  skim  thoroughly  until  thick,  spice  to  taste, 
the  same  as  number  one,  and  pack  away  the  same.  This  marmalade 
is  excellent  with  turkey,  chicken  and  all  kinds  of  fresh  meat. 

No.  5— PLUM  PRESERVES 

I have  had  this  method  to  give  most  excellent  results. 

Select  good,  medium,  but  not  over-ripe  plums.  After  the  plums 
have  been  peeled,  which  can  be  easily  and  quickly  done  by  placing 
the  fruit  in  boiling  water  for  two  or  three  minutes,  and  then  into 
cold  water,  take  a stone,  porcelain  or  glass  jar  and  place  a layer  of 
sugar  and  a layer  of  plums  until  as  full  as  desired.  Let  stand  over 
night,  pour  off  the  juice  and  let  come  to  a boil,  skim  well,  drop  the 
fruit  into  this  hot  syrup;  let  it  boil  slowly  until  the  fruit  is  clear. 
Now  add  to  each  quart  of  plums,  fifteen  grains  of  whole  spice,  ten 
cloves,  three  sticks  of  cinnamon  an  inch  long  and  four  shreds  of 
mace.  Seal  and  treat  the  same  as  for  other  fruit. 

No.  6— PLUM,  PEACH  AND  APPLE  PRESERVES 

Take  one  pound  of  plums,  one  pound  of  apples  and  one  pound 
of  peaches.  All  should  be  peeled  and  the  apples  and  peaches  cut  into 
discs  about  the  size  of  the  plums.  Sugar  the  fruit  the  same  as  for 
plum  preserves  but  in  separate  jars.  After  standing  over  night, 
drain  the  syrup  from  each  one  into  a preserving  kettle  and  boil 
gently  and  skim  thoroughly  for  two  minutes,  put  the  peaches  in 
first,  boil  until  tender,  remove  and  add  the  apples,  boiling  them 
until  tender,  remove  and  add  the  plums,  boiling  them  until  clear. 
The  apples  and  peaches  should  be  kept  hot;  the  plums  should  now 
be  added  and  the  whole  mixed  together  but  not  mashed.  Add  spice 
exactly  the  same  in  kind  and  quality  as  recommended  for  preserves. 

No.  7— PLUM  CONSERVE 

Take  three  pounds  of  peeled  plums,  one  pound  of  very  rips  peaches 
that  have  been  peeled  and  sliced.  Select  three  large  oranges,  remove 
the  seed  and  mince  the  pulp.  Grate  the  rinds  and  use  the  pulp  and 
juice.  Put  all  together  and  stir  in  three  and  one-half  pounds  of 
granulated  sugar  and  one-half  pound  of  strained  honey;  boil  slowly 
until  thick  and  seal  hot. 


6 


SAVING  THE  PLUM  CROP 


No.  8— PLUM  JELLY 

Take  as  many  medium  ripe  plums  as  you  wish,  cover  them  with 
boiling'  water.  Pour  off  immediately,  draining  them  thoroughly. 
Put  them  into  a preserving  kettle  with  just  boiling  water  enough  to 
cove/r  them,  boil  until  the  plums  begin  to  burst  and  considerable 
juice  extracted.  Pour  off  liquid  and  strain,  for  each  pound  of  juice 
add  one  pound  of  white  sugar.  Return  to  the  kettle  and  boil  it 
slowly  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  as  it  may  require.  Pour  into 
jelly  glasses  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  solid  cover  closely  and 
store  in  a cold,  dry  place. 

No.  9 — -PICKLED  PLUMS  No.  1 

Take  either  the  yellow  or  red  varieties  when  just  ripe  but  not  mushy, 
wash  and  dry  with  a soft  cloth,  prick  them  a few  times;  place  in 
a stone  jar,  add  four  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar  to  one  gallon  of 
vinegar  (of  medium  strength).  Put  into  preserving  kettle,  boil 
and  skim  several  times.  Continue  heating  the  vinegar  and  pouring 
over  them  every  other  day  for  three  days. 

No.  10— PICKLED  PLUMS  No.  2 

Take  seven  pounds  of  plums  and  five  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 
one-fourth  pound  of  stick  cinnamon;  two  ounces  of  cloves  and  two 
ounces  of  allspice;  scald  just  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them  and  pour 
over  the  spiced  plums  four  mornings  in  succession.  Pack  in  glass 
or  stone  vessels.  Caution — Do  not  put  in  vessels  with  metal  tops. 

No.  11— PLUM  JUICE 

Select  only  well  ripened  plums  for  the  finest  flavored  vinegar. 
Prepare  kettle  and  crush  with  a wooden  pestle.  Heat  slowly 
and  boil  gently  for  about  twenty-five  minutes.  Crush  again;  put 
two  thicknesses  of  cheese  cloth  into  the  colander,  pour  in  and  let 
drain;  when  sufficiently  cold,  press  out  all  of  the  juice  possible  by 
twisting  the  cloth.  Clean  the  preserving  kettle  and  return  the 
juice  to  the  fire.  When  it  boils  draw  back  and  skim,  repeat  this 
three  or  four  times.  To  every  pint  of  juice  add  one-half  pint  of 
sugar;  boil  five  or  six  minutes,  skimming  carefully.  Fill  hot 
sterilized  jars  or  bottles.  Set  the  vessel  in  boiling  water  and  allow 
it  to  simmer  for  twenty-five  minutes;  re-fill  with  boiling  juice; 
remove  from  fire  and  seal.  Place  on  boards  and  set  in  a dark  place 
out  of  a draft.  This  makes  a delicious  beverage  when  properly  diluted 
and  used  the  same  as  grape  juice. 


SAVING  THE  PLUM  CROP 


7 


No.  12— A CHEAP  AND  DELICIOUS  PLUM  PUDDING 

Take: 

2 quarts  corn  me&l, 

1 quart  stoned  plums  cut  into  small  pieces. 

1 pound  chopped  suet, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

8 eggs  beaten  up  into  sufficient  milk  to  make  the  whole  into 
a stiff  batter. 

Put  into  a bag  and  boil  three  hours;  serve  with  any  kind  of  sauce 
you  like.  This  pudding  can  be  saved  in  a cool  place,  and  warmed 
over,  day  after  day,  and  is  as  nice  as  when  fresh. 

No.  13— PLUM  SYRUP 

Make  exactly  the  same  as  recommended  for  plum  juice  except  three- 
fourths  as  much  sugar  as  juice  must  be  added.  This  is  excellent 
for  water  ices,  ice  cream,  etc.  Two  or  three  spoonfuls  added  to  a 
glass  of  ice  water  is  very  refreshing  in  hot  weather. 

No.  14— PLUM  VINEGAR 

Select  only  well  ripened  plums  for  the  finest  flavored  vinegar. 
Prepare  the  same  as  for  jelly  except  the  pulp  may  be  washed  twice 
with  warm  water  so  as  to  extract  just  as  much  of  the  juice  as  possible. 
Pour  into  stone  or  glass  vessels  and  set  into  warm  place  for  two  days. 
Skim  and  decant  the  clear  liquid,  and  to  every  three  pints  of  juice 
add  one  pint  of  brown  sugar.  Pour  into  jugs;  tie  a cloth  over  the 
top  and  set  in  a dark  place  to  work.  When  sufficiently  strong  it  may 
be  corked  and  put  away  for  use.  A little  “mother”  from  strong 
vinegar  is  often  added  with  excellent  results. 

No.  15— DRIED  PLUMS  No.  1 

Select  medium  ripe  plums,  cover  with  boiling  water,  cover  the 
vessel  and  let  stand  twenty  minutes;  drain  and  spread  in  the  sun 
to  dry.  Stir  occasionally,  when  dry  examine  them  frequently  and 
at  the  first  appearance  of  worms  put  in  the  oven  and  heat  for  a 
few  minutes.  In  cooking,  soak  in  cold  water  for  a few  hours  the  same 
as  for  other  dried  fruit. 

No.  16— DRIED  PLUMS  No.  2 

After  peeling  the  plums,  allow  half  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound 
of  fruit.  Put  fruit  and  sugar  in  layers  in  a preserving  kettle. 
Heat  slowly  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boil  until  clear.  Spread 
the  fruit  on  platters  in  the  sun  and  turn  often  until  quite  dry.  Pack 


8 


SAVING  THE  PLUM  CROP 


in  layers  with  sugar  in  stone  or  glass  jars.  Plums  dried  in  this 
way  are  extra  fine. 

No.  17— PLUMS  AS  OLIVES 

Take  plums  when  just  beginning  to  ripen,  but  still  green,  make 
a brine  out  of  sea  salt,  if  possible — common  rock  salt  will  do — strong 
enough  to  hold  up  an  egg.  Pour  the  brine  over  the  fruit  hot.  Cover 
and  let  stand  for  twenty-four  hours.  Pour  off  and  make  a new 
brine,  in  which  place  the  fruit,  boil  one  minute  and  seal  in  the  hot 
brine.- — (From  Wis.  Exp.  Sta.  Bui.  136.) 

No.  18— PLUM  SOUP  No.  1 

Take  one-half  teacup  of  rice,  soak  overnight,  add  two  quarts  of  cold 
water,  boil  until  thoroughly  done  and  pasty,  peel  and  stew  a pint 
of  well  ripe  plums,  pass  through  a colander  to  remove  the  seeds; 
sweeten  to  taste,  add  to  the  rice  paste,  add  a little  cinnamon,  one  clove 
and  a dash  of  nutmeg. 

No.  19— PLUM  SOUP  No.  2 

Take  one  pint  of  ripe1  plums  and  one  quart  of  blackberries,  stew  each 
separately,  until  thoroughly  done,  rub  plums  through  colander  and 
rub  the  blackberries  through  a sieve  just  fine  enough  to  remove  the 
seed;  boil  two  tablespoons  of  tapioca  thoroughly  done  in  two  quarts 
of  water,  mix,  return  to  the1  fire,  and  simmer  twenty-five  minutes. 
Add  a little  cinnamon,  sweeten  with  sugar  to  taste,  or  add  a little 
salt  as  preferred.  Serve  cold. 

No.  20— PLUM  SOUP  No.  3 

Make  exactly  as  for  number  two,  except  a pint  of  very  ripe  peaches 
must  be  added  that  have  been  peeled  and  reduced  to  a pulp  without 
cooking.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  serve,  preferably  with  cream  and 
sugar. 

No.  21— PLUM  LOZENGES  No.  1 

Take  one-third  pint  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  thick  plum  juice  after 
straining;  allow  to  simmer  thirty-five  to  forty  minutes,  when  at  boil- 
ing point  add  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  gelatine  that  has  been  pre- 
viously dissolved  in  a very  little  cold  water,  stir  well,  remove  from 
the  fire  and  continue  to  stir  until  it  begins  to  cool  and  thicken.  Pour 
into  well  buttered  plates  or  earthen  dishes,  let  dry  slowly,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  during  the  process,  when  sufficiently  dry  cut  into  any 
shape  desired. 


SAVING  THE  PLUM  CROP 


9 


No.  22— PLUM  LOZENGES  No.  2 (Very  Fine) 

Take  one  pint  of  sugar,  on  pint  each  of  thick  plum,  peach  and 
blackberry  juice;  simmer  and  skim  for  thirty  minutes,  when  at  boil- 
ing point  add  three  heaping  tablespoons  of  gelatine  that  has  been 
previously  soaked  in  a little  cold  water.  Treat  the  same  as  for  No.  1. 
Until  ne'arly  ready  to  cut,  sprinkle  and  immerse  bits  of  candied  plums 
and  peaches;  cut  each  piece  to  include  one  or  both  of  these  choice 
tid-bits. 

No.  23— WILD  PLUM  CATSUP  (Berry’s  Fruit  Recipes) 

To  each  five  pounds  of  plums  take!  two  and  one-half  pounds  of 
sugar,  cooking,  crushing,  and  putting  through  the  sieve.  To  each 
quart  of  juice  add  a generous  half -pint  of  vinegar  and  spice  to  taste. 
Cook  twenty  minutes  and  bottle. 

No.  24— PLUM  PASTE 

Select  very  ripe  plums,  put  into  a granite  or  porcelain  lined  stew 
kettle,  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  water,  cover  tightly  and  steam 
very  slowly  until  enough  water  forms  to  allow  them  to  cook  slowly 
without  burning.  Boil  until  they  can  be  rubbed  to  a pulp,  pass  through 
a sieve  to  remove  the  seed,  return  the  pulp  to  the  fire  and  cook  slowly 
until  very  thick,  add  one-half  of  its  weight  of  brown  sugar;  let  dis- 
solve and  boil  for  a few  minutes,  pour  the  mass  into  earthen  plates 
or  dishes,  in  quarter  or  inch  thicknesses,  and  dry  slowly  in  a warm 
oven.  Remove  when  sufficiently  dry  and  pack  away,  to  be  used  in 
puddings,  candies,  cakes,  etc. 

No.  25— PLUM  ROLL 

Use  very  ripe  plums  the1  same  as  for  the  paste.  Mash  and  remove 
the  pits,  pour  into  platters  about  one-fourth  inch  thick,  add  sugar 
slowly  as  long  as  it  will  absorb  any,  dry  in  a moderate  oven,  remove 
the  thin  sheets  from  the  plattefrs,  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  roll, 
put  in  bags  or  jars  for  use.  It  is  ready  for  use  after  soaking  for  a 
few  hours  in  cold  water,  usually  without  cooking  and  without  sugar. 

No.  26— PLUM  ROLY-POLY 

This  can  be  made  with  either  plum  paste,  or  the  plum  prepared  as 
for  Betty,  as  follows:  make  a sweet  biscuit  dough,  roll  out  thin  and 
spread  with  a large  layer  of  plums,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  butter  and 
spied  and  roll  the  dough  over  as  for  jelly  roll.  Steam  two  hours  or 
bake  in  a moderate  oven. 


10 


SAVING  THE  PLUM  CROP 


No.  27— PLUM  DUMPLINGS  BAKED 

Remove  the  seed  from  the  desired  number  of  thoroughly  ripe  plums, 
roll  out  biscuit  dough  quite  thin,  cut  in  square's  large  enough  to  cover 
four  or  six  plums,  sprinkle  with  a tablespoon  of  sugar,  bring  up  the 
corners  of  the  dough  and  fasten  by  pinching  and  twisting  together. 
Place  in  baking  pan  close  together  and  when  pan  is  full  pour  over 
theta  a syrup  made  with  one  pint  of  water  and  three-fourths  pound  of 
sugar,  letting  it  come  half  way  to  the  top  of  the  dumplings.  Cinnamon, 
allspice  and  a dash  of  nutmeg  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  top  of  each. 
Bake  fifty  minutes  in  rather  a brisk  oven.  Se'rve  with  cream  or  hard 
sauce. 

No.  28— PLUM  CROQUETTS  No.  1 

Prepare  the  plums  the  same  as  for  the  paste,  further  thicken  with 
fine  bre&d  crumbs  or  cracker  dust,  minced  walnuts,  hickory  nuts  or 
nuts  of  any  kind  add  greatly  to  its  flavor;  stir  in  additional  sugar 
if  desired,  and  a dash  of  spice.  Roll  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  fry  a 
deep  brown  in  boiling  fat. 

No.  29— PLUM  BETTY 

Select  two  or  three  cups  of  very  ripe  plums;  remove  the  seed  and 
mince  very  fine.  Butter  a dish,  put  in  a layer  of  plums,  sprinkle  with 
cinnamon,  sugar  and  butter,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  alternate 
the  layers  of  fruit  and  crumbs  as  long  as  desired,  stopping  with 
layer  of  crumbs.  Do  not  add  water,  but  cover  tight  and  steam  one 
hour  in  a moderate  oven,  after  which  remove  the  cover  and  brown 
quickly.  Serve  with  cream  or  sweet  sauce. 

No.  30— PLUM  DUMPLINGS  BOILED 

Prepare  the  plums  the  same  as  for  baked  dumplings,  tie  each  one 
in  a separate  cloth,  plunge  into  boiling  water  and  boil  vigorously 
for  one  and  one-half  hours.  Serve  with  cream  or  hard  sauce. 

No.  31— PLUM  DUMPLINGS  IN  CUPS 

Line  baking  cups  with  thin  pastry;  fill  with  seeded  plums  and 
sugar;  place  on  each  a cover  of  the  pastry  and  put  them  in  a large 
baking  pan,  pouring  boiling  water  around  the  cups  half  way  up; 
bake  until  done  in  a hot  oven. 

No.  32— DELICIOUS  PLUM  TART 

Seed  and  place  in  a crock  without  any  water  the  desired  amount  of 
plums;  put  in  a slow  oven  and  cook  until  tender,  mix  half  and  half 
with  peaches  that  have  been  peeled,  seeded  and  treated  in  the  same 


HAVING  THE  PLUM  CROP 


11 


way.  Place  in  baking  dish,  sugar  to  taste,  cover  with  a sheet  of  well 
pricked  pastry  and  bake  quickly,  serve  cold  with  cream,  or  rich  milk. 

No.  33— PLUM  SANDWICHES 

Spread  thin  slices  of  bread  with  plum  jam  or  plum  paste,  sprinkle 
liberally  with  chopped  hickory  nuts,  walnuts,  chestnuts,  etc.  If  de- 
sired very  rich,  spread  the  bread  with  butter  before  putting  on  the 
fruit  and  chopped  nuts. 

No.  34— PLUM  SHORT-CAKE  WITH  NUTS  (Very  Rich) 

Make  a rich  pie  crust,  roll  out  thin  and  bake;  cut  any  shape  de- 
sired and  proceed  as  follows:  Select  very  ripe  plums,  peel,  seed  and 
chop  very  fine;  sweeten  to  taste;  spread  a thin  layer  over  each  piece 
of  pastry,  in  the  same  manner  as  for  layer  cake;  sprinkle  each  layer 
liberally  with  minced  nuts.  Build  up  as  high  as  you  desire,  ice  the 
top  and  decorate  artistically  with  nut  kernels.  Serve  with  cream  or 
very  rich  milk. 

No.  35— PLUM  CROQUETTS  No.  2 

Take  the  desired  amount  of  plum  paste  or  plum  and  peach  marma- 
lade; put  into  a double  boiler  and  let  come  to  the  boiling  point;  have 
ready  about  one-third  of  a cup  of  corn  starch  that  has  been  moistened 
with  just  a little  cold  water;  stir  in  and  cook  fifteen  minutes;  just 
before  removing  add  one  beaten  egg,  whipping  as  it  cooks;  place  all 
in  a flat,  wet  mould  or  deep  dish  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  needed 
drop  a teaspoon  of  the  mixture  into  fine  dry  bread,  or  cracker  crumbs, 
place  in  basket  and  fry  to  a light  brown  in  boiling  fat;  spices,  nuts 
and  lemon  juice  may  be  added  if  desired. 

No.  36— DELICIOUS  PLUM  SHERBET 

Scald  a quart  of  rich  milk,  dissolve  in  a cup  of  sugar.  Let  simmer 
eight  minutes,  then  cool,  adding  to  it  (when  cold)  a pint  of  plum 
pulp  when  sweetened  and  flavored.  When  half  frozen  add  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  whipped,  and  complete  the  freezing. 

No.  37— PLUM  ICE 

Seed  and  rub  to  a pulp  the  desired  amount  of  well  ripened  plums; 
for  every  pint  of  plums  add  three-fourths  pint  of  sugar;  let  stand  two 
hours.  Strain,  and  to  each  half  gallon  of  syrup  allow  one  and  one-half 
pint  of  water.  Freeze.  The  pulp  will  make  nice  pies,  tarts,  sauce  or 
croquetts  by  the  addition  of  a little  sugar  and  flavoring  to  taste. 


12 


SAVING  THE  PLUM  CROP 


No.  38— PLUM  PUDDING 

Over  a quart  of  seeded  plums  sprinkle  one  and  three-fourths  pound 
of  sugar;  let  stand  an  hour;  drain  off  the  juice;  add  to  it  a pint  of 
rich  sweet  milk,  four  well  beaten  eggs,  a little  more  sugar  if  not 
sweet  enough,  a tablespoon  of  butter,  melted  and  rubbed  smooth 
with  half  a cup  of  flour,  and  a little  of  the  milk;  add  a pinch  of  salt, 
pour  over  the  plums  and  bake  till  brown;  serve  with  cream  or  the 
fruit  syrup  that  was  drained  off. 

No.  39— PLUM  PUNCH 

Seed  and  mash  a pound  of  very  ripe  plums,  place  in  bowl  with  the 
juice  of  three  lemons  and  two  oranges,  and  three  slices  of  pineapples; 
cover  with  one  and  one-half  pint  of  sugar.  Let  stand  one  hour  and 
strain.  Heat  this  and  add  a quart  each  of  carbonated  water  and 
Claret,  a sliced  banana  and  one-fourth  pound  of  candied  plums. 

No.  40— PLUM  RICE  PUDDING 

Allow  two  tablespoons  of  rice  to  one  quart  of  milk  salted.  Boil 
together  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  Then  place  in  the  baking  dish 
with  one  cup  of  seeded  and  sweetened  plums.  Bake  an  hour,  stirring 
frequently.  The  last  time  stir  in  a half  cup  of  mixed  nuts,  cover 
with  well  beaten  egg  and  brown  lightly,  serve  with  cream. 

No.  41— OLD-FASHIONED  PLUM  PIE 

Take  very  ripe  plums,  seed  and  put  them  in  a deep  pie-plate  lined 
with  a rich  puff  paste,  sprinkle  a thick  layer  of  sugar  on  each  layer 
of  plums,  add  spice  if  desired,  put  in  a tablespoon  of  water,  and 
sprinkle  a little  flour  over  the  top.  Cover  with  thick  crust  and 
bake  from  fifty  to  sixty  minutes. 

No.  42— DRIED  PLUM  PIE 

Soak  the  desired  amount  of  dried  plums  in  cold  water  several 
hours.  Stew  until  tender,  thoroughly  mash  by  rubbing  through  a 
colander,  beat  two  eggs,  saving  the  white  of  one,  add  three-fourths 
cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  butter  to  every  pie,  spice  to  taste, 
stir  in  the  eggs,  line  a deep  pie-pan  with  puff  paste,  fill  and  bake 
until  done,  frost  the  white  of  the  egg  and  spread  on  top,  return 
to  a quick  oven  and  brown  slightly. 

No.  43— FRIED  PLUM  PIE 

Take  plain  biscuit  dough,  roll  out  yery  thin.  Put  two  tablespoons 
of  plum  paste  or  stewed  plums  that  have  been  spiced  and  well 
sweetened.  Fold  the  crust  over  and  cut  into  small  half  moons, 
wet  and  crimp  the  edges.  Distribute  the  fruit  by  pressing  the 
pie  gently  after  crimping.  Fry  to  a rich  brown  in  boiling  hot  fat. 


