Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


ATION  FILE. 


.•  ry,  !J.  S.  Dept  of  Agriculture, 

W A. $1  i ns  <3 TON;  13.  O. 


BULLETIN  Np.  36 


APRIL,  1918 


EXPERIMENT  STATION 

TUSKEGEE  NORMAL  AND  INDUSTRIAL  INSTITUTE 
TUSKEGEE  INSTITUTE,  ALABAMA 


How  to  Grow  the  Tomato 

And  115  Ways  to  Prepare  it 
for  the  Table 


By 


G.  W.  CARVER,  M.  S . Agr. 
Director 


PRINTED  BY  TUSKEGEE  STUDENTS  FROM  FUNDS  SUPPLIED  BY  THE  ASH  FUND 
ESTABLISHED  IN  MEMORY  OF  MRS.  ELLEN  L.  ASH 


To  my  esteemed  friend  and  co-worker,  Mrs.  Adella  Hunt  Logan, 
who  was  tireless  in  her  efforts  to  help  the  farmer  and  his  family,  and 
who  saw  in  the  tomato  a panacea  for  many  of  his  ills;  and  who  con- 
tributed more  data  of  real  value  along  this  line  than  anyone  else  with 
whom  I have  come  in  contact,  I affectionately  dedicate  this  bulletin. 


BULLETIN  NO.  36 


APRIL,  1918 


How  to  Grow  the  Tomato  and  115  Ways  to 
Prepare  it  for  the  Table 

By  G.  W.  Carver 

But  few  people  realize  what  an  important  vegetable  the  tomato  is. 
While  it  is  true  that  chemical  analysis  does  not  place  it  very  high  in 
the  nutritive  scale,  if  viewed  from  this  angle  alone  its  real  value  will 
be  greatly  underestimated. 

For  the  reasons  which  follow,  every  normal  person  should  make 
the  tomato  a very  prominent  part  of  the  weekly  diet: 

1.  It  is  a vegetable  that  is  easily  grown. 

2.  It  yields  well  and  keeps  for  a long  time. 

3.  It  usually  brings  a fair  price,  because  nearly  everyone  likes  to- 
matoes. 

4.  It  contains  distinct  medicinal  virtues  (which  are  recognized  by 
many  authoritative  books  on  household  remedies),  as  “vegetable 
calomel.” 

5.  It  is  both  a relish  and  an  appetizer  as  well  as  a food. 

6.  Our  soils  can  be  made  to  bring  enormous  yields  of  tomatoes, 
superior  in  look,  taste,  and  general  appearance. 

7.  They  can  be  prepared  in  so  many  delicious  ways  that  one  can  eat 
them  every  day  in  the  week  and  not  get  tired  of  them. 

8.  The  old  vines  contain  splendid  dye-stuffs,  which  could  be  util- 
ized as  a by-product  for  dying  fabrics  of  various  kinds. 

9.  There  as  so  many  sizes,  colors,  and  varieties  that,  for  garnish- 
ings,  fancy  soups,  and  especially  fine  decorative  table-effects,  they 
are  almost  indispensable. 

10.  With  a little  intelligent  effort  fresh  tomatoes  can  be  produced 
in  this  locality  almost  the  year  round. 

SELECTION  OF  SOIL 

The  tomato  is  not  at  all  choice  in  the  kind  of  soil  in  which  it  grows; 
in  fact,  almost  any  well-drained  soil  can  be  made  to  produce  good 
tomatoes.  However,  for  early  ripening,  it  shows  a preference  for  a 
light,  loamy  soil;  and,  if  very  early  tomatoes  are  desired,  the  soil 
must  be  only  moderately  rich,  as  a highly-fertile  soil  produces  large 
vines  and  more  fruit,  which  is  likely  to  delay  ripening  of  the  to- 
matoes. 


4 HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 

J 

PREPARATION  OF  THE  SOIL 

It  is  most  essential  that  the  ground  be  spaded  or  plowed  up  very 
deep,  harrowed  and  re-plowed  if  necessary,  until  every  large  clod 
is  mashed,  and  the  ground  is  fine  and  mellow. 

Do  not  plant  tomatoes  on  land  that  has  had  white  potatoes,  melons, 
or  tomatoes  on  it  the  year  previous.  Indeed,  it  is  best  to  let  the 
land  rest  from  these  crops  three  or  four  years,  as  all  of  them  are 
subject  to  the  same  blight  disease. 

FERTILIZERS 

It  is  a mistake  to  think  that  the  tomato  does  not  like  a rich  soil. 
Indeed,  to  have  the  best  tomatoes,  the  soil  must  be  rich.  The  plant 
is  very  partial  to  a soil  full  of  well-rotted  vegetable  matter;  hence, 
we  recommend  the  following  fertilizers,  based  upon  experiments  car- 
ried out  here  on  the  Experiment  Station  grounds,  which  gave  excel- 
lent results: 

Two  loads  of  leaves  from  the  forest  and  muck  from  the  swamp 
were  spread  over  the  bottom  of  a pen;  then  one  load  of  barnyard 
manure.  This  was  continued  until  the  pen  was  full,  and  rounded  over 
at  the  top  like  a potato-hill,  so  as  to  prevent  the  excess  of  water  from 
washing  out  the  fertilizing  constituents.  To  this  heap  old  rags, 
plaster,  lime,  paper,  wood-ashes,  finely-beaten-up  bones,  etc.,  can  be 
advantageously  added. 

Make  this  compost  heap  in  the  fall  so  it  will  be  well  rotted  by 
spring. 

STARTING  THE  TOMATO  PLANT* 

In  the  northern  part  of  West  Virginia  and  in  the  higher  altitudes 
the  tomato  seed  should  be  sown  from  the  first  to  the  fifteenth  of 
March,  but  in  the  southern  part  and  along  the  Ohio  and  Kanawha 
rivers  the  seed  may  be  sown  as  early  as  February  fifteenth. 

The  best  method  of  starting  the  plants  is  by  use  of  a hotbed.  It 
may  be  constructed  as  follows:  Select  a well-drained  location 

where  the  bed  will  be  sheltered,  preferably  on  the  south  side  of  a 
building  or  fence.  Dig  a pit  3 feet  wide  by  6 feet  long  and  2 feet 
deep,  so  that  the  long  side  faces  the  south.  Line  the  inside  of  the 
pit  with  boards.  A stake  may  be  driven  in  at  each  corner  to  serve 
as  a support  for  the  frame,  if  boards  cannot  be  obtained  for  the 
lining.  Fill  the  pit  with  fresh  horse  manure  well  packed  down  by 
tramping.  Construct  a frame  3 feet  wide  by  6 feet  long.  Have  this 
frame  12  inches  high  at  back  or  north  side  and  6 inches  high  at  the 


*Note — The  above  directions  for  starting  the  tomato  plant  are  taken  from  the 
Extension  Department  of  West  Virginia  University,  Sheet  No.  i. 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE’ 


5 


front  or  south  side.  Place  the  frame  over  the  pit  and  bank  the 
outside  with  strawy  manure  or  soil. 

Place  in  the  frame  four  or  five  inches  of  good  garden  loam  which 
has  not  grown  any  diseased  plants.  Cover  the  bed  with  glass  hot- 
bed sash.  Unbleached  muslin  or  cheesecloth  may  be  substituted  for 
the  glass. 

The  fresh  horse  manure  is  used  to  furnish  heat  for  the  plants.  No 
seed  should  be  planted  until  the  temperature  of  the  soil  falls  to  80 
degrees  F. 

If  a crop  of  tomatoes  for  early  market  is  desired,  transplanting 
is  necessary.  In  this  case  use  two  or  three  rows  across  the  end  of  the 
hotbed  for  sowing  the  seed,  and  use  the  remainder  of  the  bed  for 
transplanting. 

Mark  off  rows  from  three  to  six  inches  apart  and  one-fourth  inch 
deep.  Drill  in  the  tomato  seed,  about  12  seeds  to  the  inch.  Level 
the  soil  and  press  the  surface  of  the  bed  firmly  and  uniformly. 
Moisten  the  ground  thoroughly. 

During  summer  days  ventilate  by  raising  the  cover  a few  inches  on 
the  side  opposite  the  wind.  Toward  evening  close  the  sash  in  order 
to  get  the  bed  warm  before  night.  As  the  plants  grow  older  the 
ventilation  may  be  increased.  Water  in  the  mornings  on  bright 
days  only.  Keep  the  bed  moist  but  not  wet.  Ventilate  after  water- 
ing in  order  to  dry  off  the  plants. 

When  the  seedlings  are  about  two  inches  high,  or  just  before  the 
second  leaves  set,  transplant  them  two  inches  apart  each  way  to 
another  part  of  the  bed.  Another  transplanting  four  inches  apart 
should  be  made  in  about  three  weeks.  If  there  is  no  remaining  space 
in  the  hotbed,  a cold  frame,  constructed  similar  to  the  hotbed  except 
that  no  pit  or  manure  is  necessary,  may  be  used.  The  seedlings 
may  be  transplanted  to  small  boxes  or  flats  about  18  inches  long, 
12  inches  wide,  and  2V2  inches  deep  and  then  the  boxes  placed  in  the 
hotbed  or  the  cold  frame. 

If  the  tomatoes  are  to  be  canned,  principally,  it  is  not  necessary  to 
hasten  the  maturing  of  all  the  plants.  In  that  case  the  hotbed  may 
be  used  without  any  transplanting.  Mark  off  rows  four  inches  apart 
and  one-fourth  inch  deep.  Place  one  seed  every  two  inches  in  the 
row  and  then  transplant  every  other  seedling  to  another  part  of  the 
hotbed  or  place  the  seeds  at  distances  of  four  inches  and  do  not 
transplant.  Allow  these  to  grow  as  they  stand,  until  ready  for  the 
field. 

Before  the  seedlings  are  set  in  the  garden  plot  they  should  be 
hardened  off  by  a scant  supply  of  water  for  several  days  and  by  the 
absence  of  any  covering  at  night,  when  there  is  no  danger  of  frost. 
Moisten  well  just  before  transplanting. 


6 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


STARTING  THE  SEED 

For  a family  garden,  saw  an  ordinary  cracker-box  half  in  two  so 
it  will  not  be  more  than  six  or  seven  inches  deep;  nearly  fill  with 
good,  rich  earth;  sow  the  seed;  sift  earth  over  them  until  well  covered; 
water  thoroughly,  and  set  in  a sunny  window.  They  will  soon  come 
up  and  grow  off  rapidly.  Set  out  doors  on  warm  days  to  make  them 
hardy,  strong,  and  stalky. 

For  a later  planting  sow  out  of  doors,  in  this  latitude  about  April 
15th. 


SETTING  THE  PLANTS 

Lay  off  rows  with  a middle-burster  or  two-horse  plow;  put  well 
rotted  compost  in  drill  at  the  rate  of  25  tons  to  the  acre;  bed  upon  it 
lightly,  and  set  the  tomatoes  directly  upon  it. 

Where  a chemical  fertilizer  is  used  aim  at  the  following: 


Cottonseed  meal  800  lbs. 

Acid  phosphate 850  lbs 

Nitrate  of  soda  50  lbs. 


The  nitrate  of  soda  to  be  applied  as  a top  dressing.  Just  as  the 
tomatoes  begin  to  set,  250  pounds  of  muriate  of  potash  is  desirable, 
but  at  present  it  is  out  of  the  question.  For  this  reason  I strongly 
urge  the  compost. 

SELECTION  OF  VARIETIES 

Every  year  adds  to  the  long  list  of  varieties  of  the  tomato.  With 
many  of  these  so-called  varieties  there  is  a distinction  with  but  little 
or  no  difference. 

The  following  varieties  have  done  exceedingly  well  here  on  our 
trial  grounds: 

Extra  Early  Varieties:  Spark’s  Earliana,  June  Pink,  Burpee’s 

Earliest  Pink,  John  Baer,  Prosperity,  Bolgian’s  I.  X.  L.,  and  Chalk’s 
Early  Jewel. 

Mid-Summer  Varieties:  My  Maryland,  Greater  Baltimore,  Dwarf 

Champion,  and  New  Stone. 

Late  Varieties:  Red  Rock,  Acme,  Livingstone’s  Stone. 

CULTIVATION 

Tomatoes  like  the  soil  about  them  kept  loose  and  mellow  by  fre- 
quent hoeings,  and  at  no  time  must  they  be  allowed  to  become  weedy, 
as  weeds  greatly  injure  the  plants.  A little  commercial  fertilizer  or 
a quart  of  compost  dug  in  around  the  vines  once  per  month  will  give 
finer  tomatoes  and  prolong  the  life  of  the  vines. 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


7 


Caution — Do  not  use  fresh  or  unrotted  manure,  as  it  encourages 
diseases  of  various  kinds. 


PRUNING 

When  extra  early  tomatoes  are  desired  it  is  important  that  the 
pruning  be  done  properly. 

1.  Train  the  vine  to  one  or  two  stalks. 

2.  Tie  to  stakes  well  sharpened  and  driven  into  the  earth.  Tie 
the  vines  securely  to  these  stakes  at  frequent  intervals. 

3.  Keep  growing  vigorously  until  the  lower  fruit  is  half  grown; 
then  cut  off  the  top  just  above  the  larger  fruit.  This  will  cause  the 
fruit  to  ripen  several  days  earlier  than  if  the  top  was  left  on. 

It  is  important  to  note  that,  as  a rule,  90  per  cent  of  the  tomatoes 
grow  within  18  or  20  inches  of  the  ground,  although  the  vines  grow 
much  taller;  hence,  the  wisdom  of  pruning. 

ROOTING  CUTTINGS 

In  this  locality  July  and  August  are  the  best  time  to  root  tomato 
cuttings.  The  tops  and  suckers  will  root  readily  if  inserted  in  boxes 
of  moist  sand  or  moist  shady  places.  The  cutting  should  be  3 or  4 
inches  in  length.  Keep  well  watered,  and  they  will  be  nicely  rooted 
in  about  9 days,  when  they  should  be  taken  up  and  set  the  same  as  for 
seedlings.  They  will  begin  bearing  almost  as  soon  as  they  begin 
growing  well.  They  are  preferable  to  seedlings. 

In  making  the  cuttings  half  of  each  large  leaf  should  be  taken  off. 

EXTENDING  THE  SEASON 

Method  No.  1. — Just  before  the  first  frost  pick  the  large,  well-de- 
veloped green  tomatoes,  and  place  them  side  by  side  in  a cool,  dry 
place.  Do  not  let  them  touch  each  other.  Care  must  also  be  taken 
not  to  bruise  them.  Straw  or  dry  leaves  can  be  placed  in  a cold- 
frame,  and  the  bed  filled  with  them. 

Method  No.  2. — Pull  up  the  whole  vine,  fruit  and  all;  hang  the 
vines  top-downward  in  a cool,  dry  place.  In  this  way  nice,  ripe  to- 
matoes can  be  had  until  Christmas,  New  Year,  or  even  later. 

FUNGUS  DISEASES 

The  most  serious  diseases  affecting  the  tomato  in  this  locality  are 
these: 

Leafspot  Disease  (Septoria  lycopersici). — This  trouble  covers  the 


8 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


leaves  with  minute  brown  specks,  after  which  they  turn  yellow  and 
fall  off,  causing  the  plant  to  die  outright  or  become  unfruitful. 

Remedy. — Spray  the  plants  as  directed  with  the  following  mixture 
just  as  soon  as  the  first  signs  of  the  disease  appear: 

Bordeaux  Mixture 

(By  F.  E.  Meyers  & Bros.) 


Copper  Sulphate  (blue  vitriol)  4 lbs. 

Quicklime  (not  air-slaked)  4 lbs. 

(Of  dry  air-slaked  lime  or  hydrate  of  lime  one- 
fourth  more.) 

Water  to  make  50  gals. 


Dissolve  the  copper  sulphate  by  putting  it  in  a bag  of 
cheese-cloth  and  hanging  this  in  a vessel  holding  at  least 
4 gallons,  so  that  it  is  just  covered  by  water.  Use  an  earthen 
or  wooden  vessel.  Slake  the  lime  by  addition  of  a small  quan- 
tity of  water,  and  when  slaked  cover  freely  with  water  and 
stir.  Strain  the  milk  of  lime  thus  made  into  the  copper  sul- 
phate. Pour  more  water  over  the  remaining  lime;  stir  and 
strain  into  the  other  until  all  lime  but  stone  lumps  is  taken 
up,  and  then  add  sufficient  water  to  make  50  gallons  in  tank. 
Thoroughly  agitate  mixture,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  apply. 

The  mixture  should  be  made  fresh  before  using,  and  any  left 
over  for  a time  should  be  thrown  out  or  have  fresh  lime  added. 

The  above  is  the  4-4-50  formula.  Can  be  used  up  to  6-6-50 
just  before  bloom  on  apples  or  potatoes. 

The  above  is  for  rots,  molds,  mildews,  and  all  fungous 
diseases. 

BLACK  MOULD  (Macrosporium  tomato) 

This  disease  attacks  the  tomato  itself,  beginning  at  the  blossom 
end.  Tomatoes  with  rough  skins  and  crushed  ends  are  more  likely 
to  take  the  disease  than  the  smooth  skinned  varieties;  hence,  the  wis- 
dom of  selecting  smooth  skinned  varieties. 

Fruits  that  lie  upon  the  ground  and  those  grown  in  dense  shade 
are  affected  worst;  which  emphasizes  the  importance  of  staking  the 
vines  and  pruning  so  as  to  let  the  sun  in. 

ANTHRACNOSE  (Colletotrichum  phomoides) 

This  is  another  very  destructive  disease  of  the  fruit.  Treat  the 
same  as  for  black  mould. 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE' 


9 


TOMATO  WILT  (Sclerotium  Rolfsii) 

This  is  a very  troublesome  disease  to  many  plants,  and  one  of 
the  worst  the  tomato-grower  has  to  fight. 

Symptoms — It  makes . its  appearance  similarly  to  the  cotton  wilt 
and  frequently  destroys  whole  fields  within  a short  time,  if  neg- 
lected. 

(a)  It  is  worst  during  wet,  cloudy  weather. 

(b)  Coarse,  unrotted  manure  encourages  its  growth. 

(c)  Planting  too  thick  so  the  sun  can’t  get  to  the  soil. 

It  is  easily  recognized  by  a fine  white  mold  just  above  the  ground, 
later  this  mould  is  followed  by  great  masses  of  white  and  brown 
seed-like  bodies — by  this  time,  however,  the  plant  is  hopelessly  in- 
volved. 

Remedy — Avoid  the  use  of  (a),  (b),  and  (c) ; and  since  the  disease 
appears  just  at  the  surface  of  the  ground,  it  is  wise  to  scrape  the 
earth  away  quite  to  the  large  roots,  keeping  it  away  during  wet 
weather.  All  vines  should  be  staked  up  off  the  ground. 

As  soon  as  the  earth  dries  out  to  good  growing  conditions  of 
moisture,  return  the  earth  about  the  roots.  A liberal  amount  of 
wood  ashes  with  the  soil  seems  to  have  proven  beneficial. 

FUSARIUM  WILT  (Fusarium  lycopersisi) 
BACTERIAL  Wilt  (Bacillus  solanacearum) 

Both  of  the  above  diseases  at  times  are  quite  troublesome,  and 
work  within  the  plant,  making  sprays  of  all  kinds  useless. 

The  best  remedy  to  date  is: 

1.  Good  clean  seed,  free  from  blight. 

2.  Rotation  of  crops. 

This  same  disease  attacks  tobacco,  eggplants,  and  peppers;  there- 
fore do  not  let  your  tomatoes  follow  these  crops.  Keep  them  off 
these  infested  areas  for  at  least  three  years,  five  years  would  be 
Letter. 

BLOSSOM-END  ROT  OR  POINT  ROT 


This  is  a very  destructive  disease  of  the  fruit,  appearing  as  a 
-dry,  black  spot,  starting  at  the  blossom  end. 

Remedy — It  appears  worst  during  dry,  hot  seasons;  hence,  we 
recommend  absolutely  clean  cultivation  and  a dust  mulch  all  the 
time,  to  encourage  both  the  using  and  saving  of  the  moisture. 


10 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


FRUIT  ROT,  SOFT  ROT,  ETC.  (Phoma  destructiva  Plowr) 

This  disease  is  destructive  to  both  leaves  and  fruit,  causing  a 
spotting,  and  if  neglected,  will  cause  them  both  to  drop  off. 

Remedy — Spray  with  Bordeaux  mixture. 

INSECT  ENEMIES 

There  are  at  present  only  a few  insect  enemies  of  the  tomato  that 
causes  much  concern  in  this  locality: 

1.  The  “tomato  worm,”  the  “corn  ear  worm,”  the  “boll  worm,” 
etc. 

This  insect  often  does  serious  damage  by  boring  into  and  destroy* 
ing  the  small  green  tomatoes,  in  fact,  it  is  the  corn-ear  worm  of 
the  North,  and  the  cotton-boll  worm  of  the  South. 

Remedy — Plow  all  corn  land  in  the  fall  as  the  insects  winter  over 
in  the  ground. 

Pick  off,  and  destroy  the  punctured  tomatoes.  Cultivate  frequent- 
ly and  keep  the  plants  growing. 

COLORADO  POTATO  BEETLE 

This  beetle  is  often  very  troublesome,  but  can  be  held  in  check 
or  completely  exterminated  by  poisoning  with  Paris  green  or  arsenate 
of  lead. 

SPHINX  CATERPILLAR,  “HAWK  MOTH,”  ETC. 

This  insect  makes  the  large,  obnoxious  green  worm,  so  common  on 
tomato  vines.  Hand-picking  is  the  best  remedy,  but  spraying  with 
arsenate  of  lead  or  Paris  green  will  kill  them. 

ARSENATE  OF  LEAD 
By  F.  E.  Myer  Brothers 

Arsenate  of  Soda  4 ounces 

Acetate  of  Lead  11  ounces 

Water  3 to  5 gallons 

Dissolve  the  ingredients  separately  each  in  one  gallon  of 
warm  water.  Mix,  and  pour  into  spray  tank  containing 
from  50  to  100  gallons  of  water.  Add  the  milk  of  lime  from 
two  or  three  pounds  of  freshly  slacked  lime.  This  is  the 
most  satisfactory  mixture  of  any  for  the  formula.  It  is  more 
adhesive  than  Paris  green,  and  if  properly  made  of  good 
materials  will  burn  foliage  but  little,  no  matter  what  strength 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


11 


is  used.  In  some  respects  the  commercial  brands  on  the  mark- 
et are  more  satisfactory  than  the  home-made  product.  For 
most  purposes  three  pounds  of  the  commercial  product,  arse- 
nate of  lead,  in  50  gallons  of  spray  are  used.  Either  water  or 
Bordeaux  mixture  may  be  used  as  the  carrier. 

Paris  Green 

Paris  green  may  be  used  with  Bordeaux  mixture  at  the  rate 
of  one  pound  in  from  100  to  150  gallons.  It  may  be  used 
alone  in  water  in  the  same  proportion  with  two  or  three 
pounds  of  freshly  slacked  lime  added  to  prevent  burning  of 
the  foliage.  The  mixture  should  be  kept  well  stirred. 

PREPARATION  FOR  THE  TABLE 

As  before  stated  there  are  but  few  garden  vegetables  from  which 
such  a large  number  of  attractive,  wholesome,  and  nutritious  dishes 
can  be  made,  and  it  is  hoped  that  the  large  number  of  recipes  given 
below  will  encourage  the  housewife  to  serve  this  choice  vegetable 
many  times  during  the  week,  and  each  time  the  consumer  consider  it 
a luxury. 

Macaroni  and  Tomatoes,  No.  1 

Cook  the  required  amount  of  macaroni  in  plain  water  to  which  a 
little  salt  has  been  added;  cook  till  soft;  cut  a small  piece  of  salt  pork 
into  little  pieces;  one  small  onion  sliced;  put  into  a frying  pan  and 
brown.  Drain  the  water  off  the  macaroni;  pour  into  the  frying  pan; 
add  enough  tomato  paste  to  season  well;  add  pepper  and  a bit  of 
cheese  if  desired. 

- / 

Macaroni  and  Tomatoes,  No.  2 

Use  either  macaroni  or  spaghetti;  prepare  the  sauce  as  for  No.  1; 
season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  make  rich  with  tomatoes 
(either  fresh  or  canned)  cooked  to  a pulp;  put  the  mixture,  layer  by 
layer,  into  a baking  dish,  grating  a thin  layer  of  cheese  over  each 
layer,  covering  the  cheese  with  buttered  bread  crumbs;  return  to 
the  oven  and  bake  25  minutes. 

No.  3 — Stewed  Tomatoes 

Scald;  peel  and  cut  into  small  pieces;  cook  quickly,  stirring  fre- 
quently until  free  from  lumps;  add  cup  of  sugar  or  sweeten  to 
taste;  two  tablespoons  butter;  Y2  teaspoon  salt;  ^ teaspoon  pepper; 


12 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


a small  onion  sliced  and  a pod  of  green  pepper.  Cook  slowly  for  ten 
minutes  more  and  serve  hot. 

No.  4 — Tomatoes  Broiled 

Wipe;  scald;  peel  and  cut  the  tomatoes  in  halves  or  thick  slices;  if 
very  large  lay  on  a wire  broiler;  when  hot,  add  a pinch  of  pepper,  salt 
and  a bit  of  butter;  toast  quickly  until  brown;  serve  hot. 

No.  5 — Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Select  firm,  well-ripened  tomatoes;  remove  stem  end;  take  out 
about  two-thirds  of  the  pulp;  mix  the  juice  and  pulp  with  the  filling; 
for  six  tomatoes  allow  % cup  of  cold  meat  or  fish  chopped  fine;  add 
V2  cup  of  mashed  peas,  beans,  grits,  rice,  potatoes  or  soft  bread 
crumbs,  1 onion  minced  fine  or  parsley,  celery,  etc.  Salt  and  pepper 
to  taste;  fill  the  cases;  cover  with  well-buttered  bread  crumbs;  place 
them  in  buttered  pan,  and  bake  from  20  to  25  minutes  in  a moderate 
oven. 


No.  6 — Baked  Tomatoes 

Cut  in  halves;  lay  them  in  buttered  pan;  cover  with  buttered 
bread  crumbs,  and  bake  till  brown. 

No.  7 — Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

Peel  and  chop  to  a pulp  one  pint  of  very  ripe  tomatoes,  or  one  can 
will  do,  add  1 qt.  milk;  % teaspoon  pepper,  sprig  or  parsley,  % tea- 
spoon soda,  1 teaspoon  salt,  2 tablespoons  butter,  1 teaspoon  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  flour.  Add  all  of  the  flavorings  to  the  tomatoes,  and  cook 
for  10  minutes;  rub  through  a colander;  heat  the  milk  to  the  boiling 
point;  thicken  with  the  flour  and  butter  rubbed  to  a paste;  re-heat  the 
tomatoes  and  add  the  soda;  stir  all  together  and  serve  at  once  with 
bits  of  toasted  bread. 

No.  8 — Plain  Tomato  Soup 

Use  the  quantity  of  tomatoes  as  recommended  for  No.  7;  add  1 
teaspoon  salt,  4 teaspoons  flour,  4 tablespoons  butter,  % teaspoon  pep- 
per, 1 teaspoon  salt,  1 qt.  water,  1 onion  chopped  fine;  mix  the  water, 
tomatoes,  and  seasonings;  heat  to  the  boiling  point;  add  butter  and 
flour  rubbed  to  a paste  and  cook  for  a few  minutes;  strain  and 
serve  with  bits  of  toasted  bread. 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


13 


No.  9 — Tomato  Sauce 

Cook  for  10  minutes  one  pint  of  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped  or 
canned;  put  through  a sieve;  melt  4 tablespoons  butter;  rub  in  4 
tablespoons  flour;  add  % teaspoon  salt,  % teaspoon  pepper;  add  the 
tomato,  and  cook  until  it  thickens. 

No.  10 — Tomato  and  Okra  Soup 

Take  1 % pints  of  tomatoes  pared  and  cut  fine;  2 qts.  water;  1 large 
onion  minced  fine;  3 tablespoons  rice;  1 green  pepper  with  seeds  re- 
moved and  minced  fine;  3 teaspoons  salt;  14  teaspoon  black  pepper. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients;  put  into  a soup  pot,  and  cook  gently  for  two 
hours;  add  two  tablespoons  butter  and  serve. 

No  11 — Tomatoes  Spanish  Style 

Peel  and  slice  1 quart  of  tomatoes  (or  use  one  3 -lb.  can).  Remove 
seeds,  and  cut  in  small  pieces  3 bell  peppers;  boil  till  tender  4 onions; 
add  tomatoes  and  peppers  to  onions,  and  simmer  1 hour;  season  with 
2 level  teaspoons  salt  and  Yz  teaspoon  black  pepper;  cool,  and  keep 
on  ice  for  several  hours.  Prepare  two  cups  of  stale  bread  crumbs;  take 
6 tablespoons  of  butter,  lard  or  Wesson  Snowdrift  oil.  Fill  a baking 
dish  with  alternate  layers  of  tomatoes  and  bread  crumbs;  moisten 
each  layer  with  oil;  cover  top  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a slow 
oven  for  1 hour.  If  desired  3 tablespoons  of  sugar  may  be  added  to 
the  mixture  while  it  is  cooking  the  first  time. 

No.  12 — Breaded  Tomatoes 

Scald  and  skin  the  desired  number  of  tomatoes;  remove  hard  ends 
and  cut  into  small  pieces;  stew  in  porcelain  stew-pan  till  tender;  add 
salt,  pepper,  and  sugar  to  taste,  also  one  teaspoon  butter  to  each  pint 
of  pulp ; thicken  with  coarse  or  fine  bread  crumbs,  or  thicken  with  a 
little  flour  dissolved  in  cold  water,  or  serve  plain  as  desired. 

N.  13 — Tomato  Catsup 

Take  1 peck  of  thoroughly  ripe  tomatoes  and  cook  slowly,  without 
water,  until  tender;  rub  through  a colander;  return  to  the  fire  and  boil 
until  thick;  stir  almost  constantly  to  keep  from  burning.  Now  add 
1 pint  of  vinegar,  1 pound  of  sugar,  2 tablespoons  black  pepper,  Yz 
teacup  of  salt,  V2  tablespoon  Cayenne  pepper.  Boil  again  until 
thick;  pour  at  once  into  well-sterilized  bottles,  and  seal  or  cork  tight- 
ly; set  in  a dark,  cool  place. 


14 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


No.  14 — Tomato  Goulash 

Take  1 pint  of  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes,  2 pounds  of  lean  beef  cut 
into  small  strips,  3 large  onions,  sliced,  2 tablespoons  drippings,  1 pint 
of  shredded  cabbage,  7 small  potatoes,  1 teaspoon  salt,  1 teaspoon  pa- 
prika, 1 cup  of  water,  and  1 cup  of  milk.  Place  the  drippings  in  a 
kettle;  when  smoking  hot  add  the  meat;  when  the  meat  is  brown  re- 
move from  the  kettle,  and  put  in  the  onions  and  cabbage;  then  put 
in  the  meat  and  the  tomatoes;  add  the  seasonings  and  the  water; 
cook  very  slowly  until  the  meat  is  tender;  then  add  the  potatoes; 
when  they  are  done  add  the  milk;  boil  up  once  and  serve. 

No.  15 — Baked  Tomatoes  with  Cheese 

Select  nice  large  tomatoes;  peel  with  a sharp  knife;  make  a cavity 
in  the  end  of  each,  and  press  a piece  of  cheese  into  each  one — press 
three  or  four  small  pieces  into  the  sides  of  each  tomato;  press  a bit 
of  butter  into  each;  salt  and  pepper  the  tomatoes  to  taste,  and  at 
the  side  of  each  one  lay  a piece  of  cheese  the  size  of  a walnut.  Cover 
with  bread  crumbs;  bake  in  a moderate  oven  % hour  if  the  tomatoes 
are  medium  size  and  1 hour  if  very  large;  baste  them  several  times 
with  the  liquid  that  forms.  Little  water  is  needed,  as  they  will  form 
their  own  liquor.  When  done,  brown  them  nicely  on  the  top  and 
serve  at  once. 

No.  16 — Tomatoes  as  Olives  or  Vermont  Olives 

Take  a bushel  of  green  and  half-ripe  tomatoes  (the  plum  or  fig 
tomatoes  are  preferable);  wash  clean;  pack  in  big  jar  or  tub;  use 
5 lbs.  fine  salt,  Vz  lb.  whole  mixed  spices;  weight  down  and  cover  with 
clear  cold  water.  In  two  weeks  they  are  fit  to  use,  and  will  keep 
for  months  if  kept  under  the  pickle.  They  are  used  without  further 
fixing. 

No.  17 — Tomatoes  with  Cream  Dressing 

Take  the  required  number  of  nice,  smooth,  ripe  tomatoes ; remove  the 
skins;  make  a hollow  at  each  stem  end;  stand  on  ice  until  thoroughly 
chilled.  For  the  dressing  allow  to  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled 
eggs,  one  raw  yolk,  one  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  two  tablespoons 
vinegar,  one  gill  of  thick  cream,  one-half  teaspoon  of  pepper.  Mash 
the  boiled  yolks  until  fine,  then  work  them  smooth  with  the  raw  yolk; 
add  the  pepper  and  melted  butter;  salt  to  taste;  then  little  by  little 
add  the  cream,  working  and  mixing  all  the  time;  lastly  stir  in  the 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


15 


vinegar;  blend  thoroughly.  Drop  a spoonful  into  the  hollow  of  every 
tomato,  and  serve  in  a crisp  lettuce  leaf. 

No.  18—  Puree  of  Tomatoes 

Take  one  pint  of  canned  or  finely-chopped  fresh  tomatoes,  one  cup 
of  water,  one  teaspoon  of  chopped  green  peppers,  two  tablespoons 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  level  tablespoons  butter,  the  same  of 
flour;  strain  the  tomatoes,  and  rub  the  pulp  through  a sieve;  add  the 
water,  pepper,  sugar,  and  salt,  and  put  over  fire;  rub  the  butter  and 
flour  to  a smooth  paste,  and  stir  it  into  the  tomato  stock  as  it  heats; 
boil  five  or  ten  minutes,  and  serve  with  bits  of  toasted  bread  (crou- 
tons). 

No.  19 — Tomato  Sauce,  No.  2 

Use  % can  tomatoes,  1 tablespoon  flour,  3 cloves,  2 tablespoons 
butter,  % teaspoon  black  pepper,  1 bay  leaf,  1 teaspoon  chopped 
parsley,  Vz  teaspoon  salt,  1 tablespoon  chopped  onion.  Place  1 table- 
spoon of  the  butter  in  a saucepan;  add  the  flour,  and  cook  5 minutes, 
stirring  constantly;  then  add  the  tomatoes,  salt,  pepper,  bay  leaf, 
and  cloves;  cook  until  thick  and  smooth;  add  by  little  pieces  the  sec- 
ond spoonful  of  butter;  cook  slowly  for  5 minutes  longer;  strain  and 
serve. 

No.  20 — Tomatoes  with  Eggs 

Season  two  cupfuls  stewed  tomatoes  with  salt,  butter,  pepper,  and 
one  onion  sliced  thinly;  break  six  or  more  eggs  into  the  cold  tomatoes; 
cover  with  bread  crumbs;  drop  bits  of  butter  freely  over  the  top; 
set  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  the  eggs  are  set;  serve  with  boiled  rice 
or  macaroni  or  hot,  dry  toast. 

No.  21 — Tomatoes  Smothered  with  Beef  Steak 

Cut  the  beef  steak  in  convenient  pieces  for  serving;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper;  roll  in  bread  crumbs;  put  at  once  into  a hot  frying-pan, 
in  which  are  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  drippings  mixed;  brown 
quickly  on  both  sides;  pour  over  the  steak  two  cups  of  boiling-hot, 
well-seasoned  tomatoes;  cover  and  cook  in  a hot  oven  until  thoroughly 
done. 

No.  22 — Tomatoes  Smothered  with  Pork  Chops 

Select  nice  pork  chops,  and  proceed  exactly  the  same  as  recom- 
mended for  beef  steak  (No.  21). 


16 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


No.  23 — Tomato  Fritters 

Prepare  enough  nice,  ripe  tomatoes  to  make  one  quart  when  stewed; 
cook  with  them  one  small  onion,  a few  cloves,  and  two  tablespoons 
sugar;  cook  thoroughly;  strain  through  a sieve;  season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  pepper.  To  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter,  bubbling  hot,  add 
one-half  cupful  of  com  starch;  to  this  add  the  tomatoes  you  have  al- 
ready prepared  with  onion,  cloves,  and  sugar,  stirring  them  in  grad- 
ually; cook  about  three  minutes  or  until  blended;  then  add  one  egg 
slightly  beaten.  Put  this  in  a shallow  buttered  tin,  and  when  cool 
cut  into  squares;  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  egg,  and  then  crumbs  again, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat;  drain  before  serving. 

No.  24 — Tomatoes  and  Corn 

Wash,  peel,  and  stew  the  required  amount  of  tomatoes  until  rather 
thick;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a generous  lump  of  butter,  one 
teaspoon  sugar;  split  the  grains  and  scrape  the  corn  from  six  ears,  or 
aim  to  get  just  as  much  corn  as  tomatoes;  cook  until  well  done;  serve 
hot. 

No.  25 — Tomato  and  Rice  Soup  (Very  fine) 

Brown  carefully  in  a sauce-pan  one  tablespoon  butter  and  the  same 
of  minced  onions;  when  a golden  brown  add  a quart  of  peeled  and 
chopped  tomatoes;  cook  thoroughly;  pass  through  a sieve  to  remove 
the  seeds  and  hard  lumps.  Add  the  tomatoes  to  two  quarts  of  beef 
stock;  when  boiling  hard,  add  % cup  of  rice;  cook  until  the  rice  is 
soft;  chop  up  very  fine  or  run  through  a meat-chopper  some  of  the 
meat,  and  add  to  the  soup;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper. 

No.  26 — Tomato  Conserve 

To  be  used  in  soups,  stews,  and  may  be  diluted  for  sauce. 

Put  in  an  earthen  stew-pan  as  many  sound,  ripe  tomatoes  as  de- 
sired; cook  slowly  until  the  skins  come  off  easily;  strain  through  a 
hair  sieve,  pressing  gently  with  a wooden  spoon;  throw  away  the 
first  water  that  passes  through  the  sieve.  Return  to  the  stew-pan, 
adding  a dessertspoon  of  mixed  spices  to  each  pound  of  tomatoes;  salt 
to  taste.  Cook  slowly  until  very  thick;  if  to  be  kept  only  a short 
time  put  in  wide-mouthed  bottles;  stand  the  bottles  in  a kettle  of 
water  like  any  other  preserve;  boil  for  15  minutes;  cool,  cover,  and  set 
in  a cool,  dark  place.  It  may  be  put  boiling-hot  into  sterilized  glass 
jars,  and  sealed  the  same  as  any  fruit  jar.  In  this  way  it  will  keep 
indefinitely. 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


17 


No.  27 — Stuffed  Tomatoes,  Italian  Style 

Take 

6 nice  ripe  tomatoes, 

2 ounces  of  bread  crumbs  moistened  with  vinegar, 

1 ounce  cheese,  grated. 

4 eggs  and  a small  wisp  of  parsley. 

Cut  the  stem  end  off  the  tomatoes;  remove  the  core  and  seeds,  and 
fill  with  the  following  mixture:  Add  the  bread  crumbs,  cheese,  and 

two  of  the  eggs  boiled  hard  and  finely  chopped,  a dessertspoon  of  finely 
chopped  herbs  (basil  or  savory);  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  mix  well 
with  the  other  two  eggs  well  beaten;  fill  the  tomatoes  with  the  mix- 
ture; cover  the  top  of  each  tomato  with  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  fine- 
ly-chopped parsley;  put  a small  piece  of  butter  on  each,  and  put  on  a 
greased  baking  pan;  cook  in  a slow  oven  for  20  or  30  minutes. 

No.  28 — Panned  Tomatoes 

Put  into  a pan  with  two  ounces  of  butter  six  firm  but  well-ripened 
tomatoes  that  have  been  cut  into  halves;  cook  slowly  on  top  of  the 
stove  for  15  minutes;  brown  quickly  in  a hot  oven.  Remove  the 
tomatoes  to  a hot  platter,  and  make  a sauce  by  adding  to  the  browned 
butter  two  tablespoons  flour,  rubbin,g  until  smooth;  add  one  pint  of 
rich  milk;  stir  until  it  boils;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour 
over  the  tomatoes;  garnish  with  parsley  and  bits  of  toast. 

The  above  is  greatly  relished  with  roast  meats. 

No.  29 — Scallop  of  Tomatoes  and  Potatoes 

Peel  and  chop  one-half  pint  of  tomatoes;  season  to  taste,  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  onion  juice.  Prepare  the  same  amount  of  potatoes  and 
in  the  same  way;  mix  thoroughly.  Butter  a baking  dish,  and  sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs,  and  put  in  half  the  tomatoes;  then  a layer  of  soft 
crackers  or  bread  crumbs  that  have  been  well  buttered;  cover  with 
two  heaping  teaspoons  of  grated  American  cheese;  then  the  other 
layer  of  tomatoes;  cover  with  buttered  crumbs;  place  in  a hot  oven, 
and  bake  25  minutes;  serve  at  once. 

No.  30 — Fried  Green  Tomatoes 

Cut  both  stem  and  blossom  end  from  large,  green  tomatoes;  cut  in 
thin  slices;  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  butter.  Sprinkle  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a little  sugar;  cook  until  brown.  A little  onion  may  be 

fried  with  them  if  desired*  > : , 


18 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


No.  31 — Creamed  Tomatoes 

Cut  in  thick  slices  as  many  thoroughly  ripe  tomatoes  as  desired; 
fry  until  tender  in  hot  butter,  and  then  set  on  a hot  platter  in  the 
open  oven.  Stir  a tablespoon  of  flour  into  the  butter  in  the  pan  until 
well  blended.  Let  it  cook  until  creamy;  then  stir  in  a cup  of  very  rich 
milk,  in  which  a pinch  of  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Stir  and  cook  to  a 
smooth  sauce;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  also  a little  curry 
powder  if  you  wish;  pour  over  the  tomatoes  and  serve. 

No.  32 — Curried  Tomatoes 

Put  in  the  frying  pan  a heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  and  half  an 
onion  minced;  cook  two  or  three  minutes;  then  stir  in  a scant  teaspoon 
of  curry  powder;  cut  the  tomatoes  in  slices  and  fry  brown  in  the 
seasoned  butter;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve  at  once  on  a hot  platter. 

No.  33 — Green  Tomato  Jam 

Take  4 lbs.  of  green  tomatoes,  4 lbs.  of  loaf  sugar,  1 cup  water, 
and  2 ounces  of  preserved  ginger.  Wash  tomatoes  and  cut  in  pieces; 
add  remaining  ingredients  and  cook  until  clear,  which  will  require 
about  two  hours.  Strain  through  a coarse  strainer  to  remove  the 
seeds.  Pour  boiling-hot  into  sterilized  jars,  and  seal. 

No.  34 — Green  Tomato  Soup 

Take  4 green  tomatoes  just  beginning  to  ripen,  one  large  onion; 
slice  all  together;  cover  with  salted  water,  and  cook  until  done.  Add 
one  cup  of  milk  and  two  cups  sweet  cream.  Serve  at  once  with 
crackers,  croutons,  or  bread  sticks. 

No.  35 — Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Corn  (Delicious) 

Remove  the  top  and  scoop  out  the  centers  of  smooth,  well-ripened 
tomatoes;  cut  some  tender  corn  from  the  cob;  put  through  the  fine 
knife  of  a meat-grinder;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a little  sugar. 
Fill  the  cavities  of  the  tomatoes,  and  pour  a teaspoon  of  melted  but- 
ter on  top  of  each  tomato;  bake  in  a hot  oven  untU  soft,  which  will 
require  from  15  to  20  minutes. 

No.  36 — Tomato  Soup  Without  Meat  Stock 

Take— 

2 potatoes, 

2 onions, 

2 cups  chopped  cabbage, 

2 cups  canned  or  fresh  tomatoes  chopped. 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


19 


Put  on  the  fire  in  a granite  or  porcelain  kettle  with  plenty  of  cold 
water;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter;  serve  with  crackers  or 
croutons. 


No.  37 — Tomato  Jam  (Very  rich) 

Take  7 pounds  of  ripe  tomatoes  after  they  are  peeled,  3 pounds  of 
sugar,  1 pound  of  seeded  raisins,  1 pint  of  vinegar,  1 lemon  (cut  fine), 
2 teaspoons  cinamon,  the  same  of  ground  cloves,  and  a touch  of 
Cayenne  pepper.  Boil  until  it  gets  thick  like  jam;  pour  into  glasses 
or  crocks,  and  seal  with  paraffin.  This  is  delicious  served  as  a relish 
with  hash  or  cold  meat. 

No.  38 — Tomato  Chilli  Sauce,  No.  1 

Take  Vz  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  half  as  much  each  of  onions,  and 
hot,  green  peppers;  peel  the  tomatoes  and  onions,  and  chop  fine.  Cut 
the  peppers,  removing  the  inner  white  skin,  and  chop,  leaving  in  the 
seeds;  add  one  cup  of  salt,  two  cups  of  sugar,  and  one  quart  of 
vinegar.  Boil  the  mixture  for  about  three  hours,  or  until  it  thickens 
a little;  pour  into  well-sterilized  bottles,  and  seal  hot. 

No.  39 — Tomato  Cold  Relish 

Take— 

1 peck  of  ripe  tomatoes  that  have  stood  chopped  over  night, 

4 hot  green  peppers,  seeded  and  chopped, 

2 cups  of  chopped  celery, 

5 ounces  of  white  mustard  seed, 

5 large  onions  chopped  fine, 

Vi  cup  of  salt, 

4 cups  brown  sugar, 

5 cups  vinegar. 

Stir  the  ingredients  together,  pack  cold  in  glass  jars,  cover  with 
the  liquor,  drop  % dozen  cloves  on  top,  and  seal.  Set  in  a dark,  cool 
place. 


No.  40 — French  Pickled  Tomatoes 

Take— 

1 peck  of  green  tomatoes,  sliced, 

6  large  onions, 

Vz  cup  of  salt  sprinkled  on  mixture. 

Let  this  stand  over  night;  drain  thoroughly  in  a colander;  add 
two  quarts  of  water,  one  of  vinegar;  boil  15  minutes.  Take  out  and 
drain;  add  4 quarts  of  vinegar,  2 pounds  of  sugar,  and  % pound 
white  mustard  seed.  Tie  in  a muslin  bag  one  tablespoon  each  of  all 


20 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


kinds  of  spice,  and  add  to  the  mixture;  stir  thoroughly,  and  boil  until 
tender;  put  in  stone  jars;  cover  tightly,  and  set  in  a cool,  dry  dark 
place. 

No.  41 — Tomato  Ketchup 

Take — 

2 quarts  of  tomatoes,  sliced, 

2 onions,  sliced.  Cook  together  and  rub  through  a sieve. 

Add  the  following  ingredients: 

2 cups  vinegar, 

2 cups  sugar, 

1 tablespoon  mustard, 

1 tablespoon  of  cloves, 

1 tablespoon  cinnamon, 

1 tablespoon  salt, 

1 tablespoon  pepper. 

Cook  one  hour,  bottle,  and  seal. 

No.  42 — Tomato  Jelly 

Take — 

Yz  can  of  tomatoes, 

V2  teaspoon  thyme, 

1 teaspoon  salt, 

1 teaspoon  sugar, 

1 bay  leaf, 

1 small  onion, 

3 cloves, 

V2  box  of  gelatine  soaked  in  y2  cup  of  water. 

Boil  all  together  till  the  tomatoes  are  soft;  then  add  the  gelatine, 
and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved;  strain  and  pour  into  a mold. 

No.  43— Tomato,  Cabbage,  and  Onion  Pickles 

Use— 

1 gallon  of  green  tomatoes,  . . 

1 medium-sized  head  of  cabbage,  chopped  fine, 

12  medium-sized  onions,  sliced, 

1 quart  of  vinegar, 

1 cup  sugar, 

1 teaspoon  mixed  spices. 

Cook  the  cabbage,  onions,  and  tomatoes  separately  until  done;  drain 
each  one  well;  put  them  all  together;  add  the  sugar,  vinegar,  and 
spices;  boil  ten  minutes;  pour  into  sterilized  glass  jars,  and  seal. 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


21 


No.  44 — Tomato  Catsup,  No.  1 

Take — 

x/z  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes,  pared, 

1 quart  vinegar, 

Vz  pint  salt, 

1 tablespoon  cloves, 

1 tablespoon  ginger, 

1 tablespoon  cinnamon, 

2 tablespoons  mustard, 

2 tablespoons  black  pepper, 

2 tablespoons  allspice, 

x/z  teaspoon  Cayenne  pepper. 

Cook  the  tomatoes  until  very  soft;  press  through  a fine  sieve  to 
remove  the  seed;  return  to  the  kettle,  and  cook  as  thick  as  you  desire 
the  catsup.  Now  add  all  the  other  ingredients;  cook  10  or  15  minutes 
longer;  pour  into  sterilized  bottles  and  cork  tightly.  No  further  seal- 
ing is  necessary;  it  will  keep  for  years. 

No.  45 — Tomato  Catsup  Uncooked,  No.  2 

Take — 

1 peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  chopped, 

4 bunches  of  celery,  chopped  fine, 

1 large  cupful  chopped  onion, 

XA  cup  salt, 

XA  cup  sugar, 

2 tablespoons  mustard  seed, 

2 tablespoons  ground  cinnamon, 

1 teaspoon  ground  allspice, 

2 large  red  peppers, 

Vz  teaspoon  Cayenne. 

Put  the  chopped  tomatoes  in  a bag  and  let  drain  24  hours;  add  the 
celery  and  the  onion;  mix  thoroughly;  add  the  salt;  add  all  the  other 
ingredients;  mix  very  thoroughly;  cover  with  good  strong  vinegar; 
put  in  glass  jars  and  seal. 

No.  46 — Egg  Tomatoes  in  Sweet  Pickle 

Take  7 pounds  of  egg  or  cherry  tomatoes,  scalded  and  peeled;  cover 
them  with  vinegar  much  diluted  with  water,  and  let  stand  12  hours. 
Put  Vz  cup  of  weak  vinegar  in  the  preserving  kettle,  and  add  part  of 
th$  topiatoes;  add  sugar,  spice,  ginger,  cinnamon,  cloves,  mace,  nut- 
meg, etc.,  to  taste.  Add  more,  of  the  tomatoes,  more  sugar  and 
spices;  continue  these  layers  until  all  the  tomatoes  and  5 pounds  of 
sugar  have  been  used  up.  Cook  very  gently,  stirring  just  enough  to 
keep  from  scorching;  do  not  break  the  tomatoes;  cOok  until  felear  and 


22 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


transparent;  remove  carefully,  and  boil  down  the  syrup  until  thick; 
strain  it  and  add  the  tomatoes;  boil  up  once,  and  pour  into  well 
sterilized  pint  jars,  and  seal. 

No.  47 — Tomato  Marmalade 

Use— 

4 quarts  of  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced, 

6 lemons,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise  and  sliced  very  thin, 

1 cup  of  seeded  raisins. 

Put  all  in  a preserving  kettle  in  layers,  alternating  with  4 pounds 
of  granulated  sugar.  Cook  one  hour  on  the  front  of  stove.  Then  set 
where  it  will  boil  very  slowly  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  marma- 
lade. No  one  article  should  be  recognizable.  Put  up  while  hot,  as 
jelly.  This  recipe  makes  about  2 ^quarts.  The  small  yellow,  pear, 
egg,  and  cherry  tomatoes  are  especially  fine  put  up  in  this  way. 

No.  48 — Tomato  Mock  Orange  Marmalade  (Delicious) 

Scald  and  peel  large-sized,  yellow  tomatoes;  cut  downward  over 
each  seed  section;  press  open  and  remove  all  seeds  with  the  thumb, 
leaving  the  pulp  comparatively  whole.  To  two  parts  of  the  prepared 
tomatoes  allow  one  part  of  oranges,  sliced  thinly.  Cover  all  with 
an  equal  quantity  of  sugar,  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing pour  off  the  syrup,  and  cook  down  about  half;  add  the  tomatoes 
and  oranges,  and  cook  until  the  orange  skins  are  transparent;  seal 
in  jelly  glasses. 

No.  49— Green  Tomato  Mince  Meat 

Take — 

1 peck  of  green  tomatoes  put  through  a meat-chopper, 

5 pounds  sugar, 

3 pounds  raisins,  seeded, 

1 teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1 teaspoon  cloves, 

1 teaspoon  allspice, 

1 teaspoon  nutmeg,  grated, 

Vi  teaspoon  salt, 

% teaspoon  black  pepper. 

After  grinding  the  tomatoes,  press  the  water  out,  after  which 
add  enough  boiling  water  to  cover,  and  boil  two  hours.  Add  all 
the  other  ingredients,  mixing  thoroughly.  Boil  Vt  hour  longer, 
pour  into  jars,  and  seal  with  paraffin. 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


23 


No.  50 — Tomato  Relish,  English  Style 

Use — 

5  quarts  peeled  and  cut  tomatoes, 

5 quarts  cabbage,  finely  shredded, 

5 quarts  small  cucumbers,  shredded, 

5 large  cucumbers,  shredded, 

12  large  onions,  sliced, 

24  small  red  peppers. 

Salt,  and  let  stand  over  night;  drain  in  the  morning,  and  scald 
in  weak  vinegar. 

Dressing  for  Relish 

1 gallon  moderately  sour  vinegar, 

5 cups  brown  sugar, 

IV2  cups  flour, 

1 pint  of  made  mustard, 

1 ounce  yellow  tumeric. 

Mix  all  and  boil  until  thick;  add  to  the  above  ingredients,  heat 
boiling-hot,  and  seal  in  glass  jars  or  bottles. 

No.  51 — Tomato  and  Mustard  Pickles 

Take — 

1 quart  of  green  tomatoes,  cut  into  small  pieces, 

1 quart  of  small  cucumbers,  cut  in  chunks, 

1 quart  of  small  button  onions, 

4 green  peppers,  cut  fine, 

1 red  pepper,  cut  very  fine, 

1 cup  of  flour, 

6 tablespoons  ground  mustard, 

1 tablespoon  tumeric,  with  enough  vinegar  to  make  a paste, 
1 cup  sugar,  and  sufficient  vinegar  to  make  2 quarts  in  all. 
Put  flour,  mustard,  tumeric,  sugar  and  vinegar  on  back  of  stove 
and  cook  until  thick.  For  the  cucumbers,  onions,  tomatoes,  and  pep- 
pers make  a brine  of  4 quarts  of  water  and  1 pint  of  salt;  let  stand  in 
this  24  hours,  place  on  stove,  let  come  to  a boil,  pour  in  a colander 
and  drain.  Add  the  vegetables  to  the  mustard  mixture,  and  cook 
until  it  is  well  heated  through.  Seal  in  glass  jars. 

No.  52 — Green  Tomato  Sweet  Pickles  (Delicious) 

Take — 

7 pounds  green  tomatoes, 

4 pounds  sugar, 

3 quarts  vinegar, 

1 pound  of  seeded  raisins. 

Cinnamon,  spice,  ginger,  and  cloves  to  taste. 


24 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


Cut  the  tomatoes  in  y2  inch  slices,  and  soak  for . 24  hours  in  a 
water  bucket  of  cold  water,  in  which  is  of  a pint  of  lime;  then 
soak  in  cold  water  for  two  hours  or  until  there  is  no  taste  of  the 
lime.  Drain  thoroughly,  add  to  the  vinegar  and  spices,  boil  in  the 
syrup  two  hours,  seal  in  well  sterilized  glass  jars. 

No.  53 — Tomato  Chopper  Pickles 

Use— 


V2  gallon  chopped  green  tomatoes, 

V2  gallon  shredded  cabbage, 

1 quart  tender  beans,  sliced, 

5 green  peppers,  chopped  fine, 

2 bunches  of  celery,  chopped  fine, 

2 teaspoons  ground  cinnamon, 

2 tablespoons  spice, 

2 tablespoons  cloves, 

2 teaspoons  white  mustard  seed, 

1 tablespoon  salt, 

2 tablespoons  grated  horse  radish, 

1 tablespoon  mace, 

2 tablespoons  ginger. 

Mix  all  together,  and  boil  20  minutes;  seal  in  glas5  jars. 

No.  54 — Tomato  Salad 

Select  medium  sized  tomatoes,  one  for  each  person  to  be  served; 
wash,  and  dry  carefully,  cut  off  the  stem  end  of  each,  and  remove 
the  pulp  with  care;  cut  the  pulp  and  one  whole  tomato  in  small 
pieces  (do  not  chop),  cut  one  onion  in  dice,  and  a small  stalk  of 
celery  in  small  pieces.  Mix  the  onion,  tomatoes,  and  celery  together 
lightly  but  thoroughly;  stuff,  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixture,  and 
serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  with  a generous  spoonful  of  mayonnaise 
dressing  heaped  on  each  tomato.  This  is  a delicious  salad,  and  very 
appetizing  in  appearance. 

No.  55— Tomato  Omelet 


Beat  4 eggs  very  lightly,  and  add  ^4  cup  of  flour  mixed  smooth  with 
a little  milk,  pepper,  and  salt  to  taste,  add  one  cup  of  finely-chopped 
tomatoes,  either  fresh  or  canned ; pour  into  a hot  buttered  pan, 
and  fry  slowly.  When  done  serve  at  once  on  a hot  dish. 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


25 


No.  56 — Tomatoes  on  Toast 

To  a cup  of  stewed  tomatoes  that  have  been  well  seasoned  with 
butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  a little  sugar,  add  the  same  quantity  of 
chopped  ham,  one  beaten  egg,  and  a little  gravy;  boil  and  spread 
a generous  spoonful  on  each  slice  of  well  browned  toast;  serve  hot. 

No.  57 — Tomato  and  Cheese  Patties 

Moisten  a quart  of  stale  bread  crumbs  with  a cupful  of  stewed 
tomatoes;  add  two  eggs,  one  large  cupful  of  grated  cheese,  a medium- 
sized onion,  minced  fine,  and  a piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a walnut; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper;  knead  thoroughly;  add  fine  bread 
crumbs  until  of  the  right  consistency;  mould  into  patties.  Dip  in 
beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  butter  until  brown; 
serve  hot. 


No.  58 — Tomato  Catsup,  No.  2 

Boil  V2  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes  until  they  are  soft,  press  through 
a sieve,  and  to  the  juice  add  one  pint  of  salt,  one  ounce  of  Cayenne 
pepper,  and  a little  garlic;  mix,  and  boil  until  reduced  one-half; 
bottle  and  seal  hot. 

No.  59 — Tomato  Salad,  No.  2 

Use— 

3 large  tomatoes,  cut  into  small  pieces, 

1 cucumber,  diced, 

1 onion,  diced, 

Make  a dressing  of : 

2 tablespoons  olive  oil, 

1 tablespoon  strong  vinegar, 

1 scant  teaspoon  salt. 

Mix  the  dressing  and  pour  over  the  salad  just  befcre  serving. 

No.  60 — Tomato  Jelly  Salad 

Boil  two  cups  of  tomatoes;  add  a teaspoon  of  brown  sugar,  a tea- 
spoon of  vinegar,  and  season  to  taste;  strain;  add  a teaspoon  of 
gelatin  dissolved  in  a quarter  of  a cup  of  cold  water,  and  turn  into 
small  moulds;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  a boiled  dressing. 

No.  61 — Tomato  Novelty  Salad 

Take  equal  parts  of  ripe  tomatoes,  sour  apples,  and  celery;  cut 
all  into  thin  shreds  ;mix  thoroughly,  and  serve  with  French  dressing. 


26 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


No.  62 — Tomato  Butter 

U^e — 

10  pounds  of  ripe  tomatoes,  skinned, 

4 pounds  granulated  sugar, 

3 pounds  sour  apples,  sliced  fine, 

1 quart  vinegar, 

1 ounce  stick  cinnamon, 

Vz  ounce  ginger, 

2/4  ounce  mace, 

% ounce  whole  cloves. 

Put  spice  in  a thin  bag;  put  all  the  ingredients  together,  and 
boil  until  quite  thick,  stirring  frequently  to  keep  from  burning. 

No.  63 — Savory  Tomatoes  and  Rice 

Use— 

6 large  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced, 

2 large  sweet  peppers,  chopped  fine, 

1 cup  cooked  rice, 

4 tablespoons  butter, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Butter  a baking  dish;  put  in  a layer  of  tomatoes;  sprinkle  with 
sugar,  and  cover  with  rice  and  peppers.  Alternate  the  layers 
until  dish  is  full,  having  the  tomato  on  top.  Dot  with  the  butter; 
bake  (covered)  three-fourths  of  an  hour;  uncover  and  bake  for 
quarter  of  an  hour  longer,  serve  hot. 

No.  64 — Tomato,  Fig,  and  Nut  Salad 

Take — 

2 tablespoons  blanched  peanuts, 

2 tablespoons  hickory-nut  meats, 

2 tablespoons  pecan  meats, 

1 cup  chopped  figs, 

2 tablespoons  of  minced  celery. 

Chop  the  nuts  very  fine;  mix  in  the  chopped  figs  and  celery. 
Remove  the  stem  end  of  ripe  tomatoes,  scoop  out  the  centers,  drain 
the  pulp,  and  mix  with  the  nuts;  toss  all  together  until  well  mixed; 
cover  with  a cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing.  Fill  the  tomatoes  with 
this  mixture;  serve  on  white,  crisp  cabbage  leavqs  taken  from  the 
interior  of  a head;  place  the  tomatoes  in  the  center  of  leaves, 
and  garnish  with  whatever  filling  is  left. 

No.  65 — Tomato  Puree 


Use— 


2 medium-sized  potatoes, 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


27 


1 can,  or  its  equivalent  of  fresh  tomatoes, 

2 tablespoons  of  butter  (heaped)  or  a cup  of  left-over  gravy, 
or  two  cups  of  chickeen  or  beef  stock. 

Thicken  with  a tablespoon  of  flour  mixed  smooth  with  cold  water; 
mix  all  together;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  cook  one- 
half  hour;  serve  hot  with  sippets  of  toasted  bread. 

No.  66 — Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Ham 

Scoop  out  the  center  of  large,  firm  tomatoes;  mix  the  pulp  with 
some  finely-chopped  boiled  ham  that  has  been  seasoned  with  prepar- 
ed mustard;  add  to  this  mixture  one  onion,  chopped  very  fine,  some 
chopped  parsley  and  bread  crumbs;  put  back  in  shells  and  bake 
until  tender;  serve  at  once. 

No.  67 — Tomato  and  Egg  on  Toast 

Fry  a few  pieces  of  bacon;  remove  from  fat;  dip  into  flour  thick 
slices  of  tomatoes  that  have  been  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  fry  in  same  fat.  Have  hot  buttered  toast  ready;  place  slices 
of  tomatoes  on  each,  with  a fried  egg  on  top  of  each  slice  of  tomato. 
Arrange  the  slices  of  bacon  around  the  sides  of  the  dish. 

No.  68 — Tomatos  Broiled 

Cut  firm,  well-ripened  tomatoes  into  slices;  season,  and  dip  in 
fine  bread  crumbs;  broil  over  hot  fire;  put  on  a hot  platter,  and  pour 
over  them  one  cup  of  white  sauce.  It  may  be  served  on  toast 
if  desired. 


No.  69 — Tomatoes  and  Bacon 

Toast  rounds  of  bread;  sprinkle  generously  with  grated  cheese; 
put  a slice  of  tomato  on  each  round,  and  two  slices  of  bacon  on 
top  of  the  tomato;  bake  in  quick  oven  until  bacon  is  crisp. 

No.  70 — Tomato  Salad  with  Cream 

Peel  and  slice  into  a salad  bowl,  tomatoes  in  rather  thick  slices; 
sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a little  sugar  if  desired;  chill,  and 
just  before  serving  put  over  them  a generous  amount  of  whipped 
cream,  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  olives;  serve  at  once. 


28 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


No.  71 — Tomato  Timbales 

Boil  two  cups  of  canned  or  stewed  tomatoes  and  one  finely-minced 
onion  for  five  minutes;  thicken  with  a tablespoon  of  dissolved  flour; 
cool;  add  three  beaten  eggs,  and  fill  small  buttered  moulds;  set  in 
a pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  until  firm  like  custard. 

No.  72 — Tomato  Sauce  (Mexican  Style) 


Take — 

5 onion 

1 red  pepper, 

x/4  teaspoon  celery  salt, 

2 cups  tomato  juice,  with  pulp, 

1 green  pepper, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

1 tablespoon  Worchester shire  sauce. 

Chop  onion:  cook  for  5 minutes  in  butter;  add  peppers,  finely  chopped 
then  add  the  tomatoes  and  seasoning.  Simmer  for  15  minutes;  then 
put  in  thin  slices  of  whatever  meat  you  wish. 

No.  73 — Tomato  With  Crab  Meat 

Use— 

1 can  of  crab  meat, 

1 cup  bread  crumbs, 

1 cup  of  tomatoes  (stewed), 

1 lemon  (grated), 

1 glass  of  sherry. 

Mix  meat  with  bread  crumbs;  add  all  the  other  ingredients;  turn 
into  a dish,  and  bake  from  15  to  20  minutes. 

No.  74 — Tomato  Sauce  with  Spaghetti 

Use— 

1 can  tomatoes,  or  its  equivalent  in  fresh  ones  stewed. 

V2  cup  water, 

V2  teaspoon  salt, 

1 pinch  of  black  pepper, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

1 tablespoon  flour, 

1 tablespoon  sugar, 

5 tablespoons  cheese  (chopped  fine). 

Cook  all  together  for  a few  minutes.  Boil  package  of  spaghetti, 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


29 


liaving  water  boiling  and  well  salted  when  it  is  put  in;  cook  until 
tender;  drain  off  the  water,  and  pour  tomato  sauce  over  the  top. 

No.  75 — Tomato  Bisque 

Use— 

2 cups  of  tomatoes  (boiled  5 minutes), 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

2 tablespoons  flour  (dissolved  in  milk), 

*4  onion,  minced  fine. 

Mix  all  together  and  let  boil  for  five1  minutes;  strain  and  return 
fo  the  fire;  add  3 cups  milk,  y2  cup  of  cream,  % teaspoon  soda,  and 
boil  one  minute;  serve  at  once. 

No.  76 — Tomato  Soup  (St.  James’  Style) 


Boil  20  minutes  4 cups  of  tomatoes  with  one  cup  of  water;  strain; 
add  % cup  of  cracker  dust  or  fine  bread  crumbs,  a teaspoon  of 
lemon  juice,  a stalk  of  celery,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  just  before 
serving  add  to  each  cup  a teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  a thin  slice  of 
orange,  and  a tablespoon  of  whipped  cream. 


No.  77 — Tomato  Hash 


Use— 

IV2  cups  bread  crumbs, 

2 cups  tomatoes, 

1 cup  chopped  meat  of  any  kind, 

1 tablespoons  butter, 

1 onion,  chopped, 

V2  cup  tender  corn,  either  fresh  or  canned, 
1 tablespoon  meat  gravy. 

Mix  thoroughly;  fry  or  bake  until  brown. 


No.  78 — Tomato,  Sausage  and  Spaghetti 

Take— 

1 quart  rich  tomato  soup, 

V2  cup  hot  water, 

V2  pound  spaghetti, 

1 pound  sausage. 

If  the  sausages  are  in  cases,  nick  them  thoroughly;  place  in  a 
frying  pan;  cover  with  boiling  water,  simmer  until  done  and  well 
browned  (about  an  hour).  Break  the  spaghetti  in  small  pieces, 
and  cook  in  salted  water  until  done;  drain;  rinse  in  cold  water; 
drain  again;  confine  the  sausage  and  spaghetti  in  the  frying-pan; 


30 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


add  the  soup  diluted  with  hot  water,  and  let  it  stand  until  boiling- 
hot;  serve  at  once. 

No.  79 — Tomato  Aspic  with  Tongue 

Take — 

4 cups  fresh  or  canned  tomato  juice, 

1 cooked  tongue, 

Vz  teaspoon  beef  extract, 

1 small  onion, 

1%  teaspoons  salt, 

6 cloves, 

3 tablespoons  gelatine, 

Pepper  to  taste. 

Simmer  together  the  tomatoes,  salt,  pepper,  onion,  and  cloves  for 

20  minutes;  add  the  beef  extract  and  gelatine,  which  should  have 
been  soaked  in  cold  water  until  soft;  wet  a mould  with  cold  water, 
pour  in  a thin  layer  of  the  tomato  aspic,  and  when  it  is  almost  set, 
put  in  the  tongue,  which  may  be  whole  if  nicely  trimmed  or  sliced 
as  desired;  add  the  remaining  aspic  if  the  whole  tongue  is  used,  or 
arrange  in  layers  if  sliced;  continue  until  all  the  aspic  is  used; 
when  firm  serve. 

No.  80 — Tomato  and  Sardine  Salad  (Individual) 

1 medium-sized  tomato, 

1 teaspoon  chopped  sweet  pepper  or  pimento, 

% teaspoon  sugar, 

3 sardines, 

2 olives, 

Vz  teaspoon  chopped  onion, 

2 teaspoons  chopped  celery  or  cabbage, 

2 teaspoons  mayonnaise, 

1 teaspoon  shredded  lettuce, 

Vz  teaspoon  minced  parsley. 

Cover  with  mayonnaise  (additional)  ; peel  the  tomato;  cut  off  the 
top  and  scoop  out  the  center;  mix  with  one  of  the  olives  chopped, 
the  onion,  sugar,  pepper,  celery,  and  mayonnaise;  refill  the  tomato, 
and  set  in  a nest  of  shredded  lettuce.  Place  a spoonful  of  mayon- 
naise on  top,  and  sprinkle  with  the  minced  parsley;  surmount  with 
the  other  olive,  and  lean  three  sardines  against  the  tomato  to  give  a 
tent-like  appearance. 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


31 


No.  81 — Tomatoes  with  Puff  Balls 

Use— 

6 small  puff-ball  mushrooms, 

6 tomatoes, 

2 tablespoons  butter, 

Vs  teaspoon  paprika, 

V2  teaspoon  salt, 

3 cups  water. 

Cut  the  tomatoes  fine,  and  stew  in  water  20  minutes;  rub  through 
a puree-sieve.  Add  the  puff-balls  diced,  the  salt,  and  the  paprika, 
and  simmer  for  10  minutes.  Add  the  butter,  and  serve  very  hot. 
The  puff-balls  should  be  about  the  size  of  medium  potatoes.  All  va- 
rieties are  wholesome  and  delicious  if  eaten  when  the  flesh  is  as 
white  as  curd. 

No.  82 — Tomatoes  Stuffed  with  Shrimps 

Take — 

6 medium-sized  tomatoes, 

1 can  shrimps,  halved, 

V2  teaspoon  minced  onion, 

2 slices  bread,  crummed, 

V2  teaspoon  minced  parsley, 

V2  teaspoon  green  pepper,  minced, 

V2  teaspoon  salt, 

2 tablespoons  butter, 

A few  grains  of  paprika. 

Add  a few  more  dry,  buttered  bread-crumbs;  cut  off  the  tops  of 
the  tomatoes;  scoop  out  the  centers;  add  the  other  ingredients  ex- 
cept the  shrimps.  Heat  the  butter  boiling-hot;  fry  the  shrimps; 
then  add  to  the  tomatoes;  fill  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixture;  dust  the 
tops  with  the  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a moderate 
oven. 

No.  83 — Tomato  Surprise 

Use— 

1 large  can  tomatoes, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

1 tablespoon  flour, 

2 hard-boiled  eggs, 

IV2  tablespoons  sugar, 

1 teaspoon  salt, 

Vs  teaspoon  pepper, 

Melt  the  Gutter  and  flour,  and  stir  till  dark-brown;  turn  in  the 
tomatoes,  sugar,  salt,  and  pepper;  cook  till  thick  (about  30  minutes). 
Just  before  serving  slice  the  hard-boiled  egg  over  the  top. 


32 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


No.  84 — Tomato  Hors  D’Oluvres 

Remove  skins  from  very  small,  uniform-sized  tomatoes;  scoop  out 
centers  and  fill  with  Roquefort  cheese  which  has  been  beaten  smooth 
with  a little  cream;  place  on  round  slices  of  bread  which  have  been 
toasted  and  buttered  or  fried  in  deep  fat;  cover  tops  of  tomatoes 
with  caviar;  thrust  a sprig  of  cress  in  the  top  of  each  one;  arrange 
on  salad  plates  covered  with  small  paper  doilies;  garnish  further 
with  cress  if  desired. 

No.  85 — Tomato  and  Cucumber  Salad 

Select  firm,  ripe  tomatoes;  cucumbers  to  make  the  same  number 
of  slices;  half  the  amount  of  onions;  slice  and  arrange  artistically  on 
crisp  lettuce  leaves;  sprinkle  minced  green  sweet  peppers  over  all; 
chill;  when  ready  to  serve  pass  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

No.  86 — Tomato  and  Okra  Soup 

Use — 

IV2  pints  of  tomatoes  pared  and  cut  fine, 

2 quarts  water, 

1 pint  sliced  okra, 

3 tablespoons  rice, 

3 tablespoons  minced  onion, 

1 green  pepper  chopped  fine  (seeds  removed), 

3 tablespoons  salt, 

% teaspoon  pepper, 

3 tablespoons  green  corn. 

Put  all  the  ingredients  into  the  soup  pot,  and  cook  gently  for  two 
hours;  then  add  two  tablespoons  butter  or  sweet  drippings,  and  serve. 
The  bones  from  roast  meat  or  broiled  meat  adds  to  its  flavor. 

No.  87 — Deviled  Tomatoes 

Take — 

4 large,  firm  tomatoes  cut  into  thick  slices, 

1 bablespoon  vinegar, 

1 tablespoon  mushroom  ketchup, 

1 scant  tablespoon  sugar, 

V2  teaspoon  salt, 

*4  teaspoon  dry  mustard, 

V2  teaspoon  onion  juice, 

1 bay  leaf, 

% teaspoon  paprika. 

Mix  all  the  above  ingredients;  put  two  tablespoons  cotton  cooking 
oil,  butter,  or  lard  into  a frying-pan,  add  mixture  of  seasoning,  and 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


33 


when  hot  put  in  the  tomatoes,  and  cook  until  tender;  serve  hot. 

No.  88 — Tomatoes  Baked  with  Eggs 

Select  firm,  ripe  tomatoes;  peel;  cut  off  the  stem  end;  scoop  out  the 
center  sufficiently  to  hold  a broken  egg — do  not  break  the  yolk;  sea- 
son with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt;  cover  with  buttered  bread-crumbs, 
and  bake  in  a moderate  oven  until  tomatoes  are  tender.  Serve  on 
rounds  of  buttered  toast  with  cream  sauce. 

No.  89 — Tomatoes  with  Noodles  (Very  rich) 

Take  3 pounds  of  fresh  tomatoes  (or  1-quart  can) ; peel,  season, 
and  cook  the  same  as  for  tomato  sauce. 

Noodles.  Break  two  eggs  in  a bowl;  beat,  adding  a pinch  of  salt; 
then  work  in  flour  with  the  hands  until  the  dough  is  very  stiff;  turn 
on  board,  and  work  until  dough  is  smooth  and  shining.  Pinch  off  a 
piece  the  size  of  a hen’s  egg,  and  roll  out  as  thin  as  paper;  cut  into 
very  narrow  strips  with  a sharp  knife;  roll  or  drop  them  in  as  you 
wish;  boil  in  the  tomato  sauce  until  done.  If  the  sauce  does  not  con- 
tain sufficient  butter  add  another  tablespoon.  Cook  slowly  until  dons; 
serve  hot.  To  many  tastes  the  noodles  are  superior  to  macaroni  or 
spaghetti. 

No.  90 — Tomato  Omelet 

Take — 

6 eggs  well  whipped, 

2 tablespoons  flour,  mixed  until  smooth  with  a little  milk, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 

4 tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped  very  fine. 

Stir  all  together,  and  fry  in  butter;  serve  hot. 

No.  91 — Tomato  Hungarian  Stew  (Very  rich) 

Use — 

2 pounds  of  cheapest  cuts  of  beef  cut  into  small  pieces. 

1 onion  sliced  and  fried  with  the  meat,  in  butter  or  drippings, 
until  the  meat  begins  to  turn  brown. 

Put  a laye£  of  the  meat  in  the  kettle;  cover  with  a layer  of  the 
thinly-sliced  onion;  continue  this  way,  alternating  the  layers  of  meat 
and  onion  until  all  the  meat  has  been  used;  cover  with  cold  water,  and 
gradually  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Turn  in  two  cups  or  its  equiva- 
lent of  canned  or  fresh  tomatoes,  but  do  not  stir;  simmer  for  two 
hours,  tightly  covered;  then  add  some  potatoes  cut  into  thick  slices 
or  chunks;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  cook  until  meat  is  tender,  and 
serve  hot. 


34 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


No.  92 — Tomato  Souffle 

Stew  down  to  one  pint  3 cups  of  tomatoes;  rub  through  a sieve; 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  6 eggs  and  stiffly- 
whipped  whites;  bake  in  a hot  oven  until  set;  serve  as  soon  as  done. 

No.  93 — Tomato  Higdom 

Take — 

1 bushel  of  green  tomatoes  chopped  fine, 

1 cup  mustard, 

3 pounds  sugar, 

12  red  peppers  chopped  fine, 
y2  cup  celery  seed, 
iy2  cups  salt. 

Mix  the  salt  with  the  chopped  tomatoes;  let  stand  over  night; 
press  hard  and  drain  off  all  the  juice  possible.  Mix  all  the  other  in- 
gredients thoroughly;  pack  in  jars,  and  cover  with  boiling-hot  vine- 
gar. 

No.  94 — Tomato  Chowder  (Extra  fine) 

Use— 

1 peck  green  tomatoes, 

12  sweet  peppers, 

2 green  hot  peppers, 

2 ripe  hot  peppers, 

1 quart  salt, 

12  onions, 

2 quarts  vinegar, 
iy2  pints  sugar, 

1 teaspoon  ground  cinnamon, 

1 teaspoon  celery  seed,  ground, 

1 teaspoon  ground  mustard, 

1 teaspoon  ground  allspice, 

1 teaspoon  cloves,  ground, 

% pint  grated  horse  radish. 

Sprinkle  the  salt  over  the  chopped  tomatoes,  peppers,  and  onions; 
mix  and  let  stand  over  night;  press  out  and  drain  off  the  water  next 
morning.  Mix  all  the  other  ingredients  thoroughly,  and  boil  for  15 
minutes;  pack  in  glass  or  stone  jars;  cover  with  hot  vinegar,  and  seal. 

No.  95 — Tomatoes  Riced 


Take— 


1 cup  rice, 

1 can  tomatoes, 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


35 


2 cups  sour  stock  or  water, 

1 tablespoon  butter, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Melt  the  butter  in  stew  kettle;  turn  in  the  rice  and  cook  five  min- 
utes, stirring  all  the  time;  now  add  the  stock,  tomatoes  and  season- 
ing; boil  one-half  hour;  turn  into  a baking  dish,  and  bake  25  minutes 
in  a moderate  oven;  serve  hot. 

No.  96 — Tomato  Pot  Roast 

Put  roast  into  a suitable  pan;  pour  over  it  one  cup  of  boiling  water; 
let  remain  on  the  stove  until  it  begins  to  boil;  pour  over  this  a large 
can  of  well-seasoned  tomatoes;  bake  in  a medium  oven  until  done, 
which  will  require  about  three  hours. 

No.  97 — Tomatoes  a la  Indian 

Cut  rounds  of  bread  and  saute  in  butter  until  brown  on  both  sides; 
cut  ripe,  firm  tomatoes  in  thick  slices,  two  for  each  person;  cut  into 
strips  a good-sized  green  tomato;  dip  in  boiling  water;  drop  in  ice 
water.  Wipe  the  tomatoes  and  fry  in  hot  butter;  lay  a slice  of  each 
on  each  slice  of  bread;  season  well,  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
cover  with  another  slice  of  tomato;  garnish  with  the  yelks  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs;  put  through  a ricer  with  a little  parsley. 

No.  98 — Ripe  Tomato  Chutney 

Use- 

10  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  chopped  fine, 

6 large  green  apples,  peeled,  cored,  and  chopped  fine, 

% pound  of  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped, 

2 red  peppers,  cored  and  chopped  very  fine, 

3 onions,  medium-sized,  chopped  fine, 

1 pound  brown  sugar, 

3  pints  vinegar, 

% cup  salt, 

2 tablespoons  mustard  seed. 

Place  all  but  the  vinegar  in  an  open-mouthed  jar;  scald  the  vine- 
gar; when  cool  pour  over  the  mixture — the  vinegar  must  just  cover 
the  mixture — if  it  does  not,  scald  more  and  add  to  it.  Stir  every  day 
for  ten  days;  then  set  aside  in  a cool  place  until  needed  for  use. 

No.  99 — Superior  Tomato  Pickle 

Take — 

3 quarts  green  tomatoes,  chopped, 

1 quart  ripe  tomatoes,  chopped, 

3 small  bunches  of  celery,  chopped  very  fine, 


36 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


6 medium-sized  onions,  chopped, 

4 green  peppers,  chopped, 

4 red  peppers,  chopped, 

1 quart  small  green  cucumbers,  chopped, 

1 large  ripe  cucumber,  chopped, 

1 pound  cabbage,  chopped, 

1-3  cup  salt, 

4 cups  brown  sugar, 

7 cups  vinegar, 

1 teaspoon  mustard, 

1 teaspoon  black  pepper, 

1 tablespoon  cinnamon, 

1 teaspoon  ground  cloves. 

Chop  vegetables;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  stand  over  night; 
press  out  the  water,  and  drain  in  the  morning.  Mix  all  the  other 
ingredients;  mix  thoroughly;  pack  in  small  jars;  cover  with  vinegar, 
and  seal.  It  spoils  rather  quickly  after  opening. 

No.  100 — Tomato  Sauce  (Commercial  style) 

Use  Vz  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes,  washed  and  mashed  to  a pulp;  put 
in  a porcelain-lined  kettle  with  2 tablespoons  salt;  boil  until  tender; 
cool,  and  mash  through  a sieve.  Take  % gallon  of  the  thin  juice; 
add  2 pounds  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  each  of  whole  cloves  and 
black  pepper,  six  blades  of  mace,  a short  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  a 
root  or  two  of  ginger.  Let  this  boil  until  well  flavored  with  the  other 
spices;  then  strain,  mix  with  the  other  juice,  and  boil  until  thick; 
add  1 quart  of  apple  vinegar;  boil  15  minutes;  bottle  and  seal.  Or- 
dinary fruit  jars  may  be  used.  Keep  in  a cool,  dark  place.  It  cam 
be  used  immediately,  but  improves  with  age. 

No.  101 — Green  Tomato  Preserves  (Delicious) 

Use— 

1 peck  green  tomatoes, 

7 pounds  sugar, 

6 lemons,  sliced  and  seeded. 

Place  in  preserving  kettle;  heat  slowly  without  water;  allow  to 
simmer  all  day,  taking  care  not  to  let  it  scorch;  when  it  becomes 
thick  and  dark  in  color  add  the  lemons;  put  hot  into  jars,  and  seal. 
This  is  truly  delicious;  try  it. 

No.  102 — Tomato  Mince  Meat,  No.  2 

Slice  up  the  desired  quantity  of  tomatoes;  sprinkle  with  salt;  put  in 
a bag;  hang  up  and  allow  to  drain  over  night;  in  the  morning  take 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE  37 

equal  weights  of  tomatoes  and  sugar,  and  cook  until  the  tomatoes 
are  thoroughly  done;  to  7 pounds  of  the  mixture  of  tomatoes  and 
sugar  add  3 pounds  of  seedless  raisins,  and  mace  and  cinnamon  to 
taste;  cook  a short  time  after,  adding  the  seasoning,  and  put  into 
jars.  It  will  keep  without  being  sealed.  It  makes  delicious  pies, 
more  relished  by  some  than  ordinary  mince-meat. 

No.  103 — Tomato  Mince  Meat,  No.  3 

Take — 

1 peck  green  tomatoes,  chopped  fine, 

4 pounds  brown  sugar, 

1 pound  chopped  citron, 

1 pound  raisins, 

1 pound  currants, 

2 cups  chopped  suet, 

1 teaspoon  salt, 

2 teaspoons  cinnamon, 

1 teaspoon  cloves, 

1 cup  vinegar. 

Cover  the  tomatoes  with  cold  water;  scald  and  drain  three  times 
(scalding  each  time  V2  hour) ; mix  all  together;  cook  until  tender; 
seal  in  glass  jars,  and  set  in  a cool,  dark  place. 

No.  104 — Tomato  Fritters,  No.  1 

Rub  a pint  of  tomatoes  through  a sieve;  thicken  with  2 tablespoons 
of  corn  starch,  and  add  seasoning.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  add 
one  egg  yolk;  pour  into  a shallow  pan  to  cool,  then  cut  into  rounds; 
roll  in  egg-white  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  a golden  brown  in 
deep  fat. 

No.  105 — Tomato  Fritters,  No.  2 

Beat  well  1 cup  of  flour,  *4  teaspoon  salt,  a level  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  a teaspoon  melted  butter,  2 egg  yolks,  and  *4  cup  of  milk. 
Add  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  3 tablespoons  of  tomato  pulp. 
Fry  in  deep  fat  and  roll  in  sugar. 

No.  106 — Tomato  Fluff 

Cook  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  strained  tomato  juice,  and  the 
juice  of  half  a lemon  to  a thick  syrup;  pour  the  mixture  slowly  over 
the  stiffly-beaten  white  of  1 egg;  serve  at  once  or  chill  as  desired. 


88 


HOW  TO  GROW  THE  TOMATO 


No.  107 — Green  Tomato  Cream  (Delicious) 

Wash  and  slice  four  medium-sized  green  tomatoes;  slice  thin  on© 
sour  apple,  and  add  one  onion  chopped  fine.  Put  two  tablespoons  of 
fat  in  frying-pan  and  place  over  fire.  When  hot  scatter  in  onion  and 
apple,  and  let  fry  5 minutes;  then  lay  on  slices  of  tomatoes  that  have 
been  sprinkled  on  either  side  with  flour,  salt,  and  pepper;  when  brown 
on  both  sides  pour  over  two  cups  of  hot  sweet  milk,  and  let  simmer  5 
minutes;  serve  hot. 

No.  108 — Green  Tomato  Pie,  No.  1 

Peel  the  tomatoes,  and  with  a sharp  knife  slice  very  thin;  proceed 
as  for  apple  pie;  add  one  cup  sugar  into  which  a teaspoon  more  or 
less  of  flour  has  been  added,  according  to  the  juiciness  of  the  toma- 
toes; dot  all  over  sparingly  with  lemon;  cover  with  top  crust;  brush 
with  beaten  egg  or  milk;  bind  edges  with  muslin,  and  bake  40  or  45 
minutes.  This  pie  is  more  savory  the  day  after  it  is  baked. 

No.  109 — Green  Tomato  Pie,  No.  2 (Very  rich) 

Slice  the  tomatoes  very  thin;  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice  rather 
generously;  sweeten  with  brown  sugar;  dot  a tablespoon  of  butter 
evenly  over  the  pie;  cut  some  preserved  ginger  in  little  bits,  and  scat- 
ter evenly  over  the  pie,  also  a little  chopped  lemon  peel,  and  a dust- 
ing of  cinnamon,  after  which  dredge  some  flour  over  the  top  to  keep 
it  from  being  too  juicy,  and  cover  with  rich  paste.  This  is  said  to  be 
a very  rich  pie. 

No.  110 — Tomato  Soup  with  Oatmeal 

Use— 

1 cup  tomatoes,  either  fresh  or  canned, 

1 cup  water, 

3 tablespoons  rolled  oats, 

1 scant  tablespoon  sugar, 

1 small  onion  chopped  fine, 
teaspoon  salt, 

A dash  of  pepper. 

Put  all  the  ingredients  in  a sauce-pan  together;  simmer  one-half 
hour;  rub  through  sieve,  re-heat  and  serve. 

No.  Ill — Tomato  Puffs 

Peel  and  slice  well-ripened  tomatoes;  sprinkle  with  a little  salt 
and  pepper;  dust  liberally  with  sugar;  dip  each  slice  in  rich  pancak© 


115  WAYS  TO  PREPARE  IT  FOR  THE  TABLE 


39 


batter ( rather  thick);  fry  a rich  brown;  serve  at  once. 

No.  112— Stewed  Tomatoes,  Plain 

Select  the  required  amount  of  well-ripened  tomatoes;  peel;  remove 
hard  part  of  the  core;  stew  gently  for  40  or  50  minutes;  season  to 
taste  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  1 tablespoon  butter;  cook  10 
minutes  longer  (uncovered);  serve  at  once. 

No.  113 — Tomatoes  and  Beets 

Cook  the  beets  in  boiling  water  until  thoroughly  done;  slice.  Pre- 
pare enough  ripe  tomatoes  to  make  an  equal  number  of  slices;  ar- 
range all  in  a suitable  dish;  sprinkle  with  salt,  sugar,  pepper,  and 
enough  boiling-hot  vinegar  to  cover  them;  let  stand  for  one  hour  in  a 
cool  place  before  serving. 

No.  114 — Tomato  Salad  (Vienna  style) 

Prepare  beets  the  same  as  for  above  recipe;  for  every  two  slives 
of  beet  add  one  slice  of  tomato,  one  slice  of  cucumber,  one  small  slice 
of  onion;  sprinkle  each  vegetable  separately  with  sugar,  pepper,  and 
salt;  scald  enough  vinegar  to  cover  the  entire  mixture — pour  over  the 
vinegar  boiling-hot;  let  stand  until  cold;  arrange  all  artistically  in  a 
salad  bowl;  pour  the  vinegar  over  them;  chill  for  1 hour,  and  serve. 
Mayonnaise  or  French  dressing  may  be  used  if  desired,  instead  of  the 
vinegar. 

Ne.  115— Tomato  Soy 

Use- 

36  peck  ripe  tomatoes, 

1 large  pepper,  finely  shredded, 

1 large  onion  cut  in  slices, 

1 tablespoon  ground  allspice, 

1 tablespoon  ground  cloves, 

1 tablespoon  black  pepper,  ground, 

*4  cup  salt, 

1 teaspoon  ground  mace, 

Yz  pint  vinegar. 

Boil  all  together  slowly  for  1 hour;  cool,  and  bottle  for  use. 


NOTE 


In  the  preparation  of  this  bulletin  I have  used  freely  the  work  of 
many  of  the  very  best  culinary  experts,  re-arranging  in  some 
instances  to  suit  our  particular  conditions. 

From  every  source  taken,  I wish  to  give  my  sincere  thanks. 


