Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


FEBRUARY  2,  1922 


iReferertCS  Roam  U 


BULLETIN  NO.  38 


LIBRARY  OF  THE 
8TATI§  RILATIOHS  SERVICI 

FEB  2 5 1922  , 

IKPERilBH  1 


How  The  Farmer  Can  Save 
His  Sweet  Potatoes 


And  Ways  of  Preparing  It  for  the  Table 


BY 

GEO.  W.  CARVER,  M.  S.  AGR. 


DIRECTOR 


:V:v^ 


.1 


V ■ 


Typesetting  and  Presswork  Done  by 
Students  of  the  Tuskegee  Normal  and  Industrial  Institute 
Tuskegee  Institute,  Alabama 


BULLETIN  NO.  38 


FEBRUARY  2, 1922 


How  the  Farmer  Can  Save  His  Sweet  Potatoes 
and  Ways  of  Preparing  It  for  the  Table 


By  GEO.  W.  CARVER,  M.  S.  Agr. 


There  are  but  few  if  any  of  our  staple  farm  crops,  receiving  more 
attention  than  the  sweet  potato,  and  indeed  rightfully  so. — Tho 
splendid  service  it  rendered  during  the  great  World  War  in  the  sav- 
ing of  wheat  flour,  will  not  soon  be  forgotten.  The  99  different  and 
attractive  products  (to  date)  made  from  it,  are  sufficient  to  convince 
the  most  skeptical  that  we  are  just  beginning  to  discover  the  real 
value  and  marvelous  possibilities  of  this  splendid  vegetable. 

Here  in  the  South,  there  are  but  few  if  any  farm  crops  that  can 
be  depended  upon  one  year  with  another  for  satisfactory  yields,  as 
is  true  of  the  sweet  potato.  It  is  also  true  that  most  of  our  South- 
ern soils  produce  potatoes  superior  in  quality,  attractive  in  ap- 
pearance and  as  satisfactory  yield  as  any  other  section  of  the  coun- 
try. 

HISTORY 

It  is  said  that  the  early  navigators  of  the  sixteenth  century 
recognized  such  a strong  resemblance  between  the  Irish  potato  and 
the  sweet  potato  that  they  called  them  both  by  the  same  name. 

They  are  not  only  botanically,  but  the  edible  parts  of  each  are 
in  character  and  taste  quite  unlike.  Botanically,  the  sweet  pota- 
to belongs  to  the  morning  glory  family  (Convolvulaceae),  and  has 
been  given  the  technical  name  of  Impomeabatatas. 

ORIGIN 

The  origin  of  the  sweet  potato  is  doubtful,  although  there  is  very 
strong  evidence  that  it  is  distinctly  American,  as  fifteen  or  sixteen 
known  species  of  the  genus  Batatas  are  found  in  this  country. 
The  “Indian  potato,”  “Tuckahoe”  and  “Hog  potato,”  which  grow 
abundantly  in  this  country  and  throughout  the  South,  are  all  spe- 
cies of  this  genus. 


5 


6 


HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


VARIETIES 

More  than  11  so-called  varieties  make  up  the  present  list,  many 
of  which  there  is  a distinction  without  a well-defined  difference, 
Since  some  varieties  do  well  in  one  section  and  practically  fail  in 
others,  I have  thought  wise  to  list  none  except  those  that  have 
proven  the  most  prolific  and  best  with  us. 

Table  Varieties — Dooley  Yam,  Improved  Dooley  Yam,  Triumph, 
Pumpkin  Yam,  Porto  Rico  and  Nancy  Hall. 

Varieties  for  Feeding  Stock — These  grow  to  a very  large  size 
and  make  a fine  yield,  but  are  not  very  sweet  and  rather  inferior 
for  table  use,  but  for  making  flour,  starch,  tapioca,  and  many  other 
of  the  sweet  potato  products,  they  are  excellent  and  in  some  in- 
stances, preferable — White  Bermuda,  Red  Nansemond,  “Negro 
Choker”  and  Hayti  Spanish. 

CLIMATE  AND  SOIL 

As  to  climate,  the  sweet  potato  thrives  and  does  its  best  only  in 
a warm  climate,  with  plenty  of  sunshine  and  moderate  showers 
evenly  distributed  throughout  the  growing  season.  The  growing 
popularity  of  the  sweet  potato,  however,  has  caused  greater  adap- 
tation of  standard  sorts  to  both  soil  and  climate  and  the  origin 
of  many  new’  varieties  which  to  a remarkable  degree  adjust  them- 
selves to  shorter  growing  seasons  and  colder  soils,  thus  extending 
production  much  farther  north,  east  and  west.  However,  as  far 
as  possible,  avoid  planting  in  heavy,  waxy  soils  as  they  are  not 
conducive  to  heavy  yields  of  potatoes. 

SELECTING  THE  SEED 

Experiments  seem  to  indicate  that  very  large  potatoes  are  not 
preferable  for  seed,  but  those  measuring  from  an  inch  to  an  inch  and 
a half  in  diameter;  they  should  be  smooth,  long  or  round  as  the 
\ariety  suggests,  and  free  from  any  woody  or  stringy  appearance. 
Also  select  seed  from  those  hills  that  show  the  largest  percentages 
of  marketable  potatoes,  the  best  flavor,  the  richest  color  and  the 
largest  yield. 

THE  PLANT  BED 

Select  as  warm  and  sunny  a place  as  possible;  further  protect 
by  banking  up  on  the  north  side  with  earth.  Build  an  ordinary  plank 
cold-fr^me  frefm  6 to  6 feet  wide  and  any  length  desired,  facing 
and  sloping  toward  the  South,  having  its  south  wall  several  inches 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT  FOR  TABLE 


7 


lower  than  its  north  wall.  Bank  up  well  on  the  outside,  and  pro 
tect  from  water  by  running  a little  ditch  around  on  the  outside. 
Remove  the  earth  within  the  frame  to  a depth  of  from  4 to  12  inch- 
es; spread  a thin  layer  of  oak  leaves  or  pine  straw  on  the  bottom 
of  this  excavation.  Upon  this  place  a layer  of  manure,  from  4 
to  6 inches  thick,  and  pound  down  slightly.  Place  a layer  of  soil 
over  this,  from '2  to  3 inches  thick.  On  this  lay  the  sweet  pota- 
toes, side  by  side,  horizontally,  and  just  far  enough  away  to  keep 
them  from  touching  each  other.  Cover  with  good  rich  garden  soil 
to  a depth  of  2 to  3 inches;  cover  with  sash  or  canvas  oiled  with 
linseed  or  cotton  seed  oil. 

The  amount  of  manure  required  in  the  hot  bed  is  governed  solely 
by  the  climate,  more  being  needed  in  cold  than  in  warm  climates. 
In  the  Gulf  States,  from  2 to  5 inches  is  the  truck  gardener’s  rule, 
while  10  to  12  inches  is  not  uncommon  in  Iowa,  Kansas  and  New 
Jersey.  Keep  the  bed  moist  at  all  times.  It  requires  from  5 to  6 
weeks  to  produce  slips  large  enough  for  setting. 

The  sweet  potato  plant  is  very  susceptible  to  frost  and  should  not 
be  planted  in  large  acreages  earlier  than  April  15th.  When  the  plants 
are  3 to  5 inches  in  length  and  properly  hardened  off,  they  are 
ready  to  set.  Ninety  days  after  transplanting  is  an  old  rule,  but 
we  have  been  able  to  get  potatoes  as  large  as  goose  eggs,  from 
the  earliest  varieties  in  70  days. 

NEW  METHODS 

In  this  method  pure  sand  is  used  instead  of  soil,  anyone  who 
learns  to  use  this  method  will  never  go  back  to  the  old.  The  chief 
advantages  of  this  method  are: 

1st.  The  slips  are  freer  from  disease. 

2nd.  The  slips  seem  to  grow  faster  in  the  bed. 

3rd.  Fewer  potatoes  rot  in  the  bed. 

4th.  The  slips  live  not  only  just  as  well  when  set  out,  but  I 
believe  grow  off  better  and  faster  than  when  grown  in 
soil. 

5th.  The  slips  develop  very  strong  roots. 

VINE  CUTTING 

It  is  generaly  conceded  that  after  the  vines  have  begun  to  run 
well,  the  cuttings  are  far  more  preferable  than  the  slips.  Several 


3 HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


stations  have  devoted  considerable  time  to  this  important  problem 
and  found  that  under  favorable  conditions  there  is  practically  no 
difference  in  the  yield.  They  did,  however,  find  that  a close  prun- 
ing of  the  vines  decreased  the  amount  of  marketable  potatoes  by 
increasing  the  number  of  small  ones. 

This  Station  verified  the  above  from  1908  to  1919,  testing  out 
many  varieties,  each  variety  attesting  to  the  truth  of  the  above 
statement. 


Results  of  land  well  prepared 


PREPARATION  OF  LAND 

In  this  country  the  land  should  be  broadcasted  to  a depth  of  9 
or  10  inches.  If  barnyard  manure,  mulch,  leaves,  etc.,  are  to  be 
used  as  a fertilizer,  it  should  be  broadcasted  and  plowed  in.  Har- 
row repeatedly  until  the  soil  is  thoroughly  pulverized  and  mixed. 
If  rich,  coars^e,  strawy  fertilizers  are  used,  without  mixing  well 
the  potatoes  almost  invariably  will  be  black,  scurfy  and  unattract- 
ive in  appearance,  with  poor  keeping  qualities. 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT  FOR  TABLE 


Land  prepared  as  indicated  by  No.  3 (see  chart).  Now  how  small  and 
inferior  they  are 

PLANTING 

In  setting  the  plants  it  is  very  essential  that  the  ridges  be  clean- 
ed of  weeds — never  set  plants  on  a weedy  ridge,  as  it  multiplies 
the  work,  increases  the  expense  of  the  crop  and  often  reduces  the 
yield  of  potatoes  by  stunning  the  growth  of  the  plant. 

In  planting  set  the  slips  a little  deeper  than  they  were  in  the 
plant  bed.  Just  after  a moderate  shower  is  the  most  favorable 
time  for  setting,  although  this  can  be  successfully  done  in  very  hot, 
dry  weather  as  follows:  (a)  By  watering  the  plants,  which  is  te- 
dious and  impracticable  where  large  acreages  are  to  be  planted, 
(b)  By  puddling  or  mudding  the  roots,  which  consists  of  making 
a loblolly  of  thin  clay  mortar  and  dipping  the  roots  into  it — 
balls  of  this  moist  clay  will  stick  to  the  roots  and  stem  and,  if 
planted  at  once,  will  tide  the  plant  over  9 or  10  days  of  protracted 
drought. 


10  HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 

FERTILIZING 

A series  of  experiments  demonstrated  that  the  gray  sandy  soils 
of  Macon  County  respond  best  to  a mixture  of  600  pounds  of  mu- 
riate of  potash,  120  pounds  of  acid  phosphate,  and  75  pounds  of 
nitrate  of  soda  per  acre,  making  a total  of  795  pounds.  The  ap- 
plication was  made  exactly  the  same  as  for  planting  cotton  except 
that  only  half  of  the  mixture  was  applied  before  the  plants  were  set; 
the  other  when  the  plants  began  xto  run  vigorously.  A Ghant 
fertilizer  distributor  was  used  to  put  the  fertilizer  down  each  time. 
The  second  application  of  the  fertilizers  gave  the  best  results,  as 
our  soils  are  leachy,  and  much  of  it  would  have  been  washed  away 
and  probably  an  equal  amount  sunken  below  the  depth  to  which 
the  roots  could  reach,  if  all  had  been  put  in  at  one  time. 

COMPOST  FERTILIZERS 
HOW  TO  MAKE  THE  COMPOST 

Two  loads  of  leaves  and  muck  (muck  is  simply  the  rich  earth 
from  the  swamp)  are  taken,  and  spread  out  in  a pen.  One  load 
of  barnyard  manure  is  spread  over  this.  The  pen  is  filled  in  this 
way.  It  is  either  rounded  over  like  a potato-hill,  or  a rough  shed 
is  put  over  it  to  turn  the  excess  of  water,  so  as  to  prevent  the  fer- 
tilizing constituents  from  washing  out.  It  is  allowed  to  stand  this 
way  until  spring. 

WHEN  TO  MAKE  COMPOST 

Begin  your  compost  heap  now;  do  not  delay;  let  every  spare 
moment  be  put  in  the  woods  raking  up  leaves  or  in  the  swamps 
piling  up  muck.  Haul  and  put  in  these  pens.  Do  not  wait  to  get 
the  barnyard  manure — you  can  mix  it  in  afterwards,  or  if  you  can- 
not get  the  barnyard  manure  at  all,  the  leaves  and  muck  will  pay 
you  many  times  in  the  increased  yield  of  crops. 

HOW  TO  USE 

Prepare  the  land  deep  and  thorough.  Throw  out  rows  with  a mid- 
dle-burster or  two-horse  plow;  put  in  the  compost  at  the  rate  of 
20  tons  per  acre,  25  where  the  land  is  very  poor.  Save  all  the  wood 
ashes,  waste  lime,  etc.,  and  mix  into  this  compost. 

RESULTS 

Three  acres  of  our  experimental  farm  has  had  no  commercial 
fertilizer  put  upon  it  for  15  years.  The  land  has  been  continual- 
ly cropped,  but  has  increased  in  fertility  every  year,  both  physical- 
ly and  chemically,  on  no  other  fertilizer  than  muck  compost  and 
the  proper  rotation  of  crops.  This  year  215  bushels  of  sweet  po- 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT  FOR  TABLE 


11 


No.  1 Shows  the  correct  preparation  of  the  land 


tatoes  were  made  per  acre,  with  no  other  fertilizer  than  the  above 
compost. 

No.  1,  CORRECT  CULTIVATION 

(a)  Two  inches  of  fine  soil, 

(b)  Seven  inches  of  loose  mellow  soil, 

(c)  Subsoil  full  of  water. 

No.  2,  INCORRECT  CULTIVATION 

(a)  Six-inch  cultivation,  the  ground  left  loose  and  open, 

(b)  Three  additional  inches  of  loose  earth,  which  will  dry 

out  very  fast, 

(c)  Subsoil  with  its  capillary  water,  much  of  which  will 

soon  be  exhausted. 

All  that  is  necessary  here  is  to  keep  the  ground  free  from  weeds, 
and  make  it  loose  and  porous  so  that  the  soil  bacteria  can  get 
plenty  of  air,  to  enable  them  to  do  their  highest  service  also  to  create 
and  preserve  a dust  mulch  to  tide  the  plants  over  periods  of  drought. 

The  above  cut  is  self-explanatory;  it  is  easily  seen  that  the  deep 
cultivation  given  in  No.  2 has  cut  the  feed  roots,  and  has  not  only 
reduced  the  amount  of  foliage,  but  greatly  reduced  the  crop  of  po- 
tatoes. 


12  HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


INSECT  ENEMIES 

In  this  section  there  are  practically  no  insects  that  give  the  farm- 
er trouble — neither  cut  worms,  flea  beetles  or  the  tortoise  beetles. 
The  constant  stirring  of  the  ground  and  the  vigorous  growth  are 
all  against  injurious  attacks  of  insects. 

FUNGUS  DISEASES 

In  this  section  there  are  two  or  three  diseases  that  are  especially 
troublesome,  viz.:  black  rot  (Ceratocystis  fimbriata).  This  disease 
is  especially  destructive  in  the  storeroom.  With  us,  all  varieties  seem 
to  be  equally  affected.  The  tubers  are  more  or  less  marked  (ac- 
cording to  the  severity  of  the  disease)  with  dark  bown  patches, 
which  give  the  whole  tuber  an  unpleasant  bitter  taste.  If  only 
slightly  affected,  they  bear  a strong  resemblance,  in  taste,  to  frost- 
ed potatoes,  and  for  this  reason  many  mistakes  are  made.  It  oft- 
en attacks  the  plants  in  the  bed,  and  may  be  recognized  by  plants 
turning  black  at  the  bottom,  and  of  course  such  will  soon  die. 

REMEDIES 

(a)  Avoid  planting  slips  from  a diseased  bed. 

(b)  Do  not  save  seed  from  a field  containing  diseased  tubers. 

(c)  Rotate  crop;  do  not  plant  two  years  in  the  same 

place. 

SOFT  ROT  (Rhizopus  Nigricans) 

Here,  this  disease  seems  to  be  by  far  the  most  troublesome  of 
all,  and  so  far  as  observation  goes,  is  a storage  trouble,  being 
confined  strictly  to  the  tubers.  It  attacks  the  potato  wherever  there 
are  bruised,  broken  or  cut  places,  etc.,  appearing  in  black  powdery 
masses  like  the  black  mould  of  bread.  Immature,  cut,  broken  and 
bruised  potatoes  are  harbingers  and  breeders ' of  the  disease. 

REMEDIES 

(a)  Nothing  but  mature  potatoes  should  be  banked.  (See 

cut.) 

(b)  Dry  them  thoroughly  before  storing. 

(c)  Avoid  as  far  as  possible  the  putting  in  of  tubers  cut, 

bruised  or  injured,  in  any  way. 

(d)  Keep  cool  and  as  dry  as  possible;  also  free  from  mice, 

rats  or  destructive  vermin  of  any  kind. 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT  FOR  TABLE 


13 


HARVESTING  AND  STORING 

The  importance  of  correctly  harvesting  the  crop  is  a matter 
which  must  not  be  passed  by  lightly,  as  in  this  lies  very  largely 
the  success  of  any  method  of  storing.  As  far  as  possible  the  fol- 
lowing should  be  observed: 

1.  Select  a time  when  both  the  air  and  ground  are  dry. 

2.  Remove  the  vines  with  a sharp  hoe,  vine  cutter  or  any  im- 
plement that  will  do  the  work  rapidly  and  well. 

3.  Dig  before  the  frost  injures  the  vines  to  any  extent.  Dig 
in  the  morning  and  allow  the  potatoes  to  lie  out  all  day.  Gather 
up  in  baskets  or  boxes  holding  not  more  than  one  bushel  each. 
Handle  with  great  care,  as  they  are  easily  bruised,  and  every  in- 
jury lessens  their  keeping  qualities. 


Potatoes  perfectly  sound  and  full  of  vigor  after  keeping  two  years 


In  the  matter  of  storing  there  is  a variety  of  methods,  all  pos- 
sessing more  or  less  merit.  Where  just  a few  hundred  bushels  are 
to  be  kept,  the  old  primitive  method  of  banking  is  quite  satisfac- 
tory, if  the  potatoes  are  properly  cured  and  kept  dry,  which  is 


14  HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 

a very  difficult  thing  to  do.  For  this  a well  drained  piece  of  land 
is  selected  which  is  slightly  hollowed  out — the  size  of  the  base  of 
the  desired  bank.  This  is  covered  with  leaves,  pine-tag  or  straw. 

BANKING  POTATOES 

The  potatoes  are  piled  up  into  a conical  shaped  mound  around 
a piece  of  bark  curled  up,  a board  flue,  or  anything  that  will  serve 
as  a ventilator. 

The  depth  to  which  the  straw  and  earth  should  be  put  for ' this 
locality,  and  the  cover  should  vary  according  to  the  severity  of  the 
climate.  When  large  quantities  are  kept,  potato  houses  seem 
preferable,  and  they  can  at  all  times  be  examined  and  the  defective 
ones  removed. 

HOW  TO  CURE  AND  STORE  THE  SWEET  POTATO 

During  the  war  this  station  along  with  many  others,  set  out  to 
find,  if  possible  how  to  reduce  the  enormous  storage  losses  which 
rendered  the  growing  of  sweet  potatoes  hardly  thought  of  as  a 
money  crop. 

There  seemed  to  be  no  method  which  had  an  element  of  cer- 
tainty about  it  as  far  as  the  farmer  was  concerned,  and  for  this 
reason  the  Tuskegee  Station  has  directed  its  efforts  almost  wholly 
along  this  line,  with  the  following  encouraging  results: 

(a)  We  found  that  there  was  little  more  excuse  for  the 

farmers  to  allow  their  potatoes  to  rot  than  their  corn. 

(b)  That  the  fundamental  thing  in  the  saving  of  sweet  po. 

tatoes  is  to  cure  it  first. 

WHAT  IS  CURING 

By  curing  we  mean  to  dry  the  moisture  out  of  the  potatoes  to 
the  point  where  they  will  give  a little  when  pressed  hard  between 
the  ball  of  the  thumb  and  fingers. 

HOW  DONE 

I always  manage  to  dig  my  potatoes  in  a very  dry  time.  Spread 
out  very  thinly  in  the  shade  where  the  air  will  blow  over  them 
freely.  They  may  also  be  dried  out  by  artificial  heat,  my  method 
is  a.s  follows: 

I took  an  ordinary  wire  screen  door,  took  off  the  fine  wire  and 
covered  it  with  large  coarse  wire,  I put  from  tv/o  to  two  and  one- 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT  FOR  TABLE  lo 

half  bushels  of  potatoes  on  this  door  which  was  placed  in  a window 
of  an  ordinary  living  ^oom.  The  window  was  raised  so  therfe 
was  a brisk  breeze  blowing  directly  over  and  through  the  potatoes. 
If  dug  in  a dry  time  and  the  air  is  dry,  three  or  four  days  a're 
all  that  is  necessary  for  medium  sized  potatoes.  I then  lay  them 
very  carefully  in  barrels  without  breaking  or  bruising  any,  spread  a 
bit  of  coarse  bagging  over  the  top  of  the  barrel.  I have  paid  no 
attention  to  temperature,  except  to  keep  tkem  always  above  the 
freezing  point. 

I put  up  four  barrels  every  year  and  lost  less  than  three  pota- 
toes to  the  barrel.  Last  year  I lost  four  potatoes.  I have  some 
of  the  potatoes  now,  October  14th,  1920,  just  as  sound  as  those  I 
am  putting  away  now. 

Note  what  the  Chamber  of  Commerce,  Montgomery,  Alabama, 
says  about  them: 

October  1,  1920. 

“I  received  the  cured  sweet  potatoes  you  sent  me,  and  appre- 
ciate very  much  thought.  I have  cooked  and  compared  one  with 
one  of  this  year’s  crop,  and  readily  noted  the  difference.  I am 
convinced  now  of  their  superiority. 

“I  exhibited  to  our  Board  of  Directors  at  their  last  meeting,  and 
they  were  very  much  interested.  Each  cut  a slice  and  ate  it  raw. 
They  could  hardly  believe  that  the  flavor  and  interior  freshness 
could  have  been  retained. 

“On  October  4th,  I had  dug  nine  bushels  of  Porto  Rican  pota- 
toes, they  were  badly  cut  and  bruised  as  I had  them  dug  by  out- 
side labor  in  the  same  way  the  average  farmer  digs  his  potatoes, 
they  were  removed  and  placed  on  a screen  in  a window,  rotting 
ceased  and  those  slightly  affected  cured  up  nicely  when  the  spoil- 
ed portion  was  cut  off  and  the  sound  part  placed  in  a good  draft 
where  the  excess  of  moisture  was  carried  away  quickly.” 

NOTE: — Care  must  be  taken  not  to  cover  the  barrels  or  boxes  up 
tightly  or  the  potatoes  will  sweat  and  spoil. 

AS  FOOD  FOR  MAN 

As  a food  for  human  consumption,  the  sweet  potato  has  been, 
and  always  will  be,  held  in  very  high  esteem,  and  its  popularity  will 
increase  as  we  learn  more  about  its  many  possibilities. 

There  is  an  idea  prevalent  that  anybody  can  cook  sweet  pota- 
toes. This  is  a very  great  mistake,  and  the  many,  many  dishes  of 
illy  cooked  potatoes  that  are  placed  before  me  as  I travel  over  the 
South,  prompt  me  to  believe  that  these  recipes  will  be  of  value 


16  HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


(many  of  which  I have  copied  verbatim  from  Bulletin  No.  129  U.  S. 
Department  of  Agriculture).  The  above  bulletin  so  aptly  adds  the 
following: 

‘The  delicate  flavor  of  a sweet  potato  is  lost  if  it  is  not  cooked 
properly.  Steaming  develops  and  preserves  the  flavor  better  than 
boiling,  and  baking  better  than  steaming.  A sweet  potato  cooked 
quickly  is  not  well  cooked.  Time  is  an  essential  element.  Twenty 
minutes  may  serve  to  bake  a sweet  potato  so  that  a hungry  man 
can  eat  it,  but  if  the  flavor  is  an  object,  it  should  be  kept  in  the 
oven  an  hour.” 

No.  1,  BOILED  OR  STEAMED 

Boil  or  steam  like  white  potatoes  and  without  breaking  the  skin. 
If  boiled,  pour  off  the  water  as  soon  as  done,  cover  the  pot  with  a 
cloth  and  let  stand  on  the  back  part  of  the  range  a few  minutes  be- 
fore serving. 

No.  2,  BAKED 

Scrub  with  a brush  and  rinse  with  water  until  thoroughly  clean. 
Bake  like  white  potatoes,  without  breaking  the  skin.  When  done 
break  the  skin  in  one  place  in  the  form  of  a cross,  forcing  the  meat 
partly  out,  cap  with  butter  and  serve. 

Potatoes  from  1 to  1 1-2  inches  in  diameter,  and  from  5 to  6 
inches  long,  are  the  most  desirable  for  baking — the  flavor  seems  to 
be  far  superior  to  the  larger  kinds,  or  the  round  or  irregular  sort. 

No.  3,  BAKED  IN  ASHES 

In  this  method  the  sweetness  and  piquancy  of  the  potato  is 
brought  out  in  a manner  hardly  obtainable  in  any  other  way.  Se- 
lect the  same  kind  of  potatoes  as  described  above  for  baking;  cover 
them  with  warm  ashes  to  a depth  of  4 inches,  upon  this  place  live 
coals  and  hot  cinders;  let  bake  slowly  for  at  least  two  hours.  Re- 
move the  ashes  with  a soft  brush,  and  serve  while  hot  with  butter. 

No.  4,  FRIED 

Cut  in  slices  lengthwise  and  fry  in  deep  grease,  same  as  white  po- 
tatoes. Care  must  be  taken  to  not  allow  them  to  become  hard 
and  dry. 

No.  5,  CHIPS 

Cut  in  thin  slices,  steam  until  nearly  done,  allow  the  surplus  water 
to  drain  off  or  dry  between  napkins,  fry  in  deep  fat  to  a light 
brown.  This  makes  a fine  breakfast  dish.  A little  salt  adds  to 
its  flavor. 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT  FOR  TABLE 


17 


No.  6,  PIE  (EXTRA  FINE) 

Boil  in  skins.  When  tender,  remove  skins;  mash  and  beat  until 
light.  To  each  pint  of  potato,  add  1-2  pint  of  milk,  1-2  pint  of 
cream  and  four  well  beaten  eggs;  add  1 1-2  tea-cups  of  sugar  (less 
if  the  potatoes  are  very  sweet).  Add  spice,  cinnamon  and  ginger  to 
taste;  one  ground  clove  will  improve  it.  Bake  with  bottom  crust 
only.  The  above  is  enough  for  five  or  six  pies. 

No.  7,  SLICED  POTATO  PIE 

Line  a deep  baking  dish  with  a rich  sheet  of  pastry.  Parboil 
the  number  of  potatoes  desired.  When  two-thirds  done  remove  the 
skins,  slice  lengthwise,  very  thin,  cover  the  dish  to  a depth  of  2 
inches;  sprinkle  with  ground  allspice  and  a dash  of  ginger,  cloves 
and  nutmeg.  To  a pie  sufficient  for  six  people,  scatter  around  the 
top  in  small  pieces  a lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a hen  egg;  add  one 
teacupful  of  sugar  and  1-2  teacupful  of  molasses.  Add  1-2  pint  of 
cream,  dust  a little  flour  over  the  top  sparingly;  cover  with  hot 
water,  put  on  upper  crust,  crimp  edges,  and  bake  in  a moderate 
oven  until  done.  Serve  hot,  with  or  without  sauce. 

No.  8,  GLACE  No.  1 

Boil  and  cut  in  halves  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes,  lay  evenly 
in  braising  pan,  baste  with  syrup  and  butter  warmed  together, 
sprinkle  ligthly  with  brown  sugar,  put  in  hot  oven  till  brown,  and 
serve  in  the  syrup. 


No.  9;  GLACE  No.  2 

Cut  in  slices  1-2  inch  thick,  wash  and  place  in  deep  saucepan; 
spread  with  butter;  season  with  a little  grated  nutmeg  and  salt; 
moisten  with  broth  or  water,  cover  and  let  simmer  over  a slow 
fire  for  three-fourths  of  an  hour,  turning  the  slices  so  that  they 
will  glace  on  both  sides.  Serve  with  drawn  butter  or  other  sauce. 

No.  10,  SWEET  POTATO  COBBLER 

Prepare  the  potatoes  same  as  for  No.  6.  Proceed  to  fill  the 
dish  the  same  as  for  layer  cake,  rolling  out  the  layer  of  dough 
quite  thin  and  spreading  the  mixture  on  in  layers  about  1-4  of  an 
inch  thick.  Proceed  until  the  dish  is  full;  add  to  each  layer  just 
enough  water  to  cook  the  layer  of  crust.  Bake  until  thoroughly 
done,  and  serve  hot  with  drawn  butter  or  hard  sauce. 


18  HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


No.  11,  WITH  ROAST  BEEF  No.  1 

Roast  the  beef  and  make  a brown  gravy.  Take  sweet  potatoes 
of  medium  size,  previously  baked;  remove  the  skin,  and  garnish 
the  dish  with  the  potatoes.  Serve  the  potatoes  with  the  beef. 

No.  13,  WITH  ROAST  PORK 

Parboil  the  desired  number  of  potatoes  with  the  peelings  on 
until  nearly  done;  remove  and  peel;  lay  in  the  baking  dish  with  the 
nearly  done  roast;  cook  until  done,  and  serve  with  the  pork. 

No.  14,  WITH  ROAST  PORK 

Select  a desirable  piece  of  fresh  pork;  bake  until  nearly  done; 
dip  or  pour  off  as  much  of  the  grease  as  possible;  prepare  the  po- 
tatoes the  same  as  for  No.  12.  Lay  them  in  the  gravy;  and 
slightly  brown,  with  the  meat,  until  done. 

No.  15,  BROILED 

Steam,  pare  and  cut  in  slices  3-8  of  an  inch  thick;  lay  the  slices 
in  a double  boiler;  salt;  cover  with  melted  butter,  and  broil  over 
a slow  fire;  serve  in  folded  napkins. 

No.  16,  STUFFED  No.  1 

Bake,  then  cut  off  one  end  and  scoop  out  the  inside;  season  with 
butter,  pepper  and  salt;  beat  until  light;  replace  in  the  skin;  close 
with  the  piece  cut  off  and  put  into  the  oven  to  heat  through.  Serve 
in  napkins.  Suitable  for  luncheon. 

No.  17,  STUFFED  No.  2 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  No.  15,  to  which  add  to  every  pint  of 
potato  1-4  pint  of  minced  ham;  mix  thoroughly,  fill  the  hulls,  heat 
and  serve. 

No.  18,  A SOUTHERN  DISH 

Cut  cold  baked  sweet  potatoes  into  slices  and  put  into  an  earthen 
dish;  add  sugar  and  butter  to  each  layer  and  bake  until  slightly 
brown. 

No.  19,  CROQUETTES 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  mashed,  boiled,  steamed  or  baked  sweet  po- 
tatoes; add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  season  to  taste;  stir 
over  the  fire  until  the  mass  parts  from  the  sides  of  the  pan.  When 
cold,  form  into  small  croquettes,  roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard  to  amber  color.  Serve  on  napkins. 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT  FOR  TABLE 


19 


No.  20,  SWEET  POTATO  BALLS 

Prepare  the  sauce  for  croquettes,  make  into  balls  and  enclose 
within  the  center  of  minced  meat. 

No.  21,  PUREE 

Take  mashed,  boiled,  steamed  or  baked  sweet  potatoes;  season 
and  add  enough  hot  milk  to  moisten;  serve  like  mashed  white  po- 
tatoes, or  put  in  pudding  dish;  dress  the  top  with  egg  and  brown 
in  oven;  serve  with  sauce. 

No.  22,  BROWNED 

Cut  cold,  boiled  or  stewed  sweet  potatoes  into  slices  1-4  of  an 
inch  thick;  add  butter,  sugar,  pepper  and  salt  and  put  into  hot 
oven  to  brown. 

No.  23,  SCALLOPED  POTATOES 

Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes;  slice  very  thin;  put  in  baking  dish 
in  layers;  season  each  layer  with  salt,  butter,  1-2  teacup  of  sugar, 
a dash  of  spice,  nutmeg  and  ginger;  cover  with  milk  that  has  been 
made  1-2  cream^;  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  tender;  serve  hot. 

No.  24,  DELICIOUS  POTATOES 

Wash  and  pare  rather  small  sized  potatoes;  steam  or  boil  until 
they  can  be  readily  pierced  with  a fork;  dry  the  surplus  water  off; 
have  a little  butter  melted  in  a dish,  roll  the  potatoes  in  this;  place 
in  a quick  oven  and  brown  slightly;  serve  hot. 

No.  25,  HASHED  POTATOES 

Take  cold  sweet  potatoes,  either  steamed  or  boiled,  roasted  or 
baked;  cut  into  small  pieces,  place  in  a well  buttered  pan,  mince 
scraps  of  meat  of  any  kind  and  stir  into  it;  let  brown  and  seS:ve 
hot.  Chicken  makes  a most  excellent  meat  to  put  into  it. 

No.  26,  BAKED  WITH  APPLES 

Take  four  medium-sized  potatoes  and  the  same  number  of  apples. 
Wash,  peel  and  cut  the  potatoes  in  slices  about  14  of  an  inch  thick; 
pare  and  slice  the  apples  in  the  same  way;  put  in  baking  dish  in 
alternate  layers;  sprinkle  1 1-2  cups  of  sugar  over  the  top,  scatter 
1-2  cup  of  butter  also  over  the  top;  add  3-4  pint  of  hot  water; 
bake  slowly  for  one  hour;  serve  steaming  hot. 

No.  27,  SWEET  POTATO  MUFFINS 

Boil  until  thoroughly  done  a sweet  potato  weighing  about  3-4  of 
a pound;  mash  very  fine;  pass  through  colander  to  free  it  from 


20  HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


lumps;  add  to  it  a large  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a little  salt; 
whip  well;  now  add  1-2  cupful  milk  and  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a soft  batter,  which  will  be  about  two  cup- 
fuls. Before  adding  the  flour  sift  into  it  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powders.  Bake  in  muffin  or  gem  pans. 

No.  28,  SWEET  POTATO  PUFFERS 

Whip  two  eggs  until  quite  light;  two  cups  of  cold  mashed  pota- 
toes; one  cup  of  flour  into  which  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  has 
been  sifted.  The  potatoes  and  eggs  should  be  worked  together, 
then  the  flour  and  baking  powder;  roll  lightly;  cut  quickly,  and  fry 
in  deep  fat  like  doughnuts. 

Some  think  a little  spice  improves  the  flavor. 

No.  29,  SWEET  POTATO  SAVORIES 

Boil  and  mash  as  many  sweet  potatoes  as  required;  when  cold 
stir  in  sufficient  flour  to  form  into  a paste;  roll  out  and  cut  into 
small  squares;  soak  a few  bread  crumbs  in  water  for  5 or  10  minutes; 
squeeze  dry;  add  a-  little  chopped  parsley,  mixed  herbs,  and  a 
small  onion  previously  soaked  in  hot  water;  season  with  salt  and  a 
dash  of  pepper.  Mix  all  together  thoroughly,  put  a little  on  each 
square  of  paste,  and  fold  over  as  in  sausage  rolls;  fry  in  boiling  fat 
till  brown;  drain  and  serve. 

No.  30,  SWEET  POTATO  NUTS 

Take  one  pint  of  boiled  and  mashed  potatoes,  one  pint  of  toasted 
bread  crumbs  rolled  fine,  one  pint  mixed  nut  meats  chopped  fine 
(peanuts  are  excellent) ; season  with  salt,  a little  pepper,  also  sage 
and  mace  if  desired;  take  the  yolks  of  two  eggs;  stir  in  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder;  whip  until  light;  pour  it  into  the  above 
mixture  and  stir  well;  form  into  small  cakes;  dip  each  into  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  then  into  shredded  cocoanut,  and  brown  in  a 
frying  pan  containing  a little  pork  fat  (not  deep  fat);  turn;  brown 
on  both  sides. 

No.  31,  SWEET  POTATO  RICED 

Pare  and  boil  the  potatoes  in  water  slightly  salted;  when  done 
drain  off  the  water,  and  run  through  a ricer;  serve  hot  with  plain 
or  drawn  butter. 

The  dry,  mealy  varieties  are  especially  pleasing  when  prepared 
in  this  way. 

CANNING 

The  sweet  potato  is  quite  easy  to  can,  and  in  several  states  the 
industry  has  assumed  quite  handsome  ijroportions.  They  lind  a 
ready  sale  in  localities  where  fresh  ones  cannot  be  had. 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT  FOR  TABLE 


21 


PICME  CANNING  OF  SWEET  POTATOES  IN  GLASS  JARS 

Peel  and  cut  the  potatoes  in  small  cubes  or  thick  slices;  pack  them 
just  as  closely  and  firmly  as  possible  in  the  jars;  fill  with  cold 
water;  put  the  lid  on  loosely,  and  boil  60  minutes;  tighten  the  lids 
at  once.  Potatoes  prepared  in  this  way  are  exceedingly  fine. 

COMMERCIAL  CANNING 

Mr.  H.  B.  Benson,  head  of  our  Canning  Division,  and  who  suc- 
cessfully cans  every  year  several  thousand  cans  of  potatoes,  hands 
us  the  following  as  his  method: 

“The  canning  of  sweet  potatoes  is  not  very  difficult,  but  requires 
considerable  attention  and  care,  because  if  not  handled  properly 
an  unsightly  article  will  appear. 

“There  are  two  styles  of  packing,  one  being  the  whole  potatoes, 
packed  as  dry  as  possible,  the  other  being  pie  stock,  in  which  the 
potatoes  appear  as  a pulp.  In  packing  the  whole  potatoes  it  is 
* very  necessary  to  keep  them  dry,  because  the  nature  of  this  veg- 
etable is  to  absorb  water,  and  they  should  not  come  from  the  cans 
in  a water-soaked  condition.  To  avoid  this,  steam  them  about 
three-fourths  done;  slip  the  skins  off,  and  pack  into  the  cans  as 
tightly  as  possible  without  mashing;  exhaust  15  or  20  minutes; 
seal,  and  cook  3-pound  cans  45  minutes  at  240  degrees  Farenheit, 
or  90  minutes  at  212  degrees  Farenheit.” 

AS  A FOOD  FOR  STOCK 

The  value  of  root  crops  for  stock  has  so  long  been  recognized 
that  it  is  almost  universally  regarded  as  a necessity,  not  alone  for 
the  actual  food  nutrients  they  contain,  but  the  peculiar  diatetic  effect 
so  essential  to  the  well-being  of  all  animals. 

A glance  at  the  table  below  will  convince  the  most  skeptical  of 
its  superiority  over  many  of  the  standard  food-stuffs. 

AVERAGE  COMPOSITION 


Food  Material  Protein,  or  Muscle  Carbohydrates,  or  Fat 

Builders  Formers 

Mangel  Beet 1.4  per  cent  7.6  per  cent 

Turnip 1.1  per  cent  7.6  per  cent 

Rutabaga  1.2  per  cent  9.0  per  cent 

Carrot  1.1  per  cent  9.3  per  cent 

Parsnip  1.6  per  cent  11.4  per  cent 

Sweet  Potato ; 1.5  per  cent  26.4  per  cent 


We  readily  see  that  the  potato  contains  practically  as  much 
muscle-building  material  as  any,  and  more  than  double  that  of  the 
fat  formers. 


22  HOW  THE  FARMER  CAN  SAVE  HIS  SWEET  POTATOES 


In  view  o±  the  above  table  and  most  especially  the  fact  that 
years  of  experience  has  taught  us  that  the  sweet  potato  crop  is  the 
one  that  can  be  depended  upon  in  favorable  years  for  an  enormous 
yield,  which  can  be  greatly  increased  with  a little  intelligent  di- 
rection in  the  preparation  of  the  soil,  fertilization,  etc.,  we  have 
been  able  to  produce  here  on  our  Experiment  Station  359  bushels 
to  the  acre,  and  I fully  believe  our  soils  can  be  made  to  yield  500 
bushels  of  the  coarser  growing  varieties. 

A series  of  experiments  have  proven  that  the  Dooley  Yam,  South- 
ern Queen,  Pumpkin  Yam  and  the  White  and  Red  Nansemond  may 
be  left  out  in  the  field  with  but  slight  injury  for  feeding  purposes, 
which  would  save  the  expense  of  housing  or  banking. 

EXPERIMENT  No.  1 

Mr.  M.  V.  Darthard,  in  charge  of  the  horses  and  mules,  who  per- 
sonally conducted  the  following  experiments,  is  enthusiastic  over  the 
results.  The  experiment  covered  a period  of  30  days: 

Four  mules  were  fed  potatoes,  two  that  were  doing  heavy  work 
and  two  that  were  doing  light  work;  com  was  the  grain  ratiom 
After  the  preliminary  feeding,  substitutions  for  grain  were  made  at 
the  rate  of  2 3-4  to  2 1-2  pounds  of  potatoes  to  1 1-2  pounds  of 
corn  plus  the  usual  ration  of  hay. 

These  four  .mules  kept  in  good  condition,  and  were  able  to  do 
good  work.  In  fact,  they  looked  as  well  and  were  able  to  do  as 
much  work  as  the  four  check  mules. 

The  result  of  this  experiment,  was,  that  the  sweet  potato  was 
made  to  replace  1-2  of  the  corn  for  the  feeding  of  mules,  which 
means  a great  saving  in  actual  dollars  and  cents. 

CAUTION 

It  is  highly  important  that  the  potatoes  be  gradually  fed  in  the 
beginning,  increasing  the  quantity  as  the  animal  becomees  accus- 
tomed to  them.  Frozen  potatoes  must  also  be  fed  with  caution, 
or  ascetic  or  alcoholic  fermentation  may  set  in  and  cause  serious 
results.  Do  not  feed  the  potatoes  to  horses,  mules  and  cattle  after 
they  have  become  sour;  hogs  may  eat  them  with  safety. 

EXPERIMENT  No.  2 

THE  FEEDING  OF  SWEET  POTATOES  TO  HOGS 

This  experiment  was  conducted  by  Mr.  R.  R.  Robinson,  in  charge 
of  the  swine  herd. 

Six  hogs  were  used;  two  were  fed  wholly  on  sweet  potatoes,  two 
were  fed  shorts,  and  two  were  fed  corn.  Eight  pounds  of  pota- 
toes were  fed  each  day,  with  the  following  gain  of  flesh  at  the  • 
close  of  28  days: 


AND  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  IT  FOR  TABLE 


23 


Lot  No.  1.  Fed  on  potatoes;  made  a total  gain  of  24  1-2  pounds. 

Lot  No.  2.  Fed  on  shorts;  made  a total  gain  of  33  pounds. 

Lot  No.  3.  Fed  on  corn;  made  a total  gain  of  53  1-2  pounds. 

These  figures  are  intensely  interesting  from  the  fact  that  such 
highly  concentrated  foodstuffs  as  shorts  and  com  only  exceed  the 
potatoes  thus:  In  the  matter  of  putting  on  fat — corn,  29  pounds; 
shorts,  8 1-2  pounds.  It  is  also  easy  to  see  that  these  results  are 
not  inconsistent  with  good  farm  practice,  and  all  farmers  with  ex- 
perience know  that  all  kinds  of  stock,  such  as  hogs,  cattle,  horses 
mules  and  poultry,  are  not  only  fond  of  them,  but  thrive  upon  them 
as  well,  when  the  potatoes  are  judiciously  fed,  with  concentrates, 
such  as  corn,  cotton-seed  meal,  bran,  shorts,  etc. 

VINES 

The  vines  make  an  excellent  quality  of  hay,  which  chemists  find 
to  be  in  composition  about  the  same  as  that  of  succulent  cow-pea 
vines.  The  vines  turn  black  when  dried,  but  stock  eat  them  greed- 
ily. The  vines  have  been  found  to  be  of  the  following  composi- 
tion: muscle-builders,  12.48  per  cent;  fat  formers,  78.79  per  cent. 

MISCELLANEOUS  INFORMATION 

When  potatoes  are  frozen  so  that  they  become  soft  they  must 
be  fed  as  fast  as  possible,  as  they  will  not  keep. 

Care  must  be  taken  not  to  give  horses,  mules  and  cattle  too  much 
of  them,  as  they  are  very  sweet  after  freezing  and  tempting  to 
the  appetite.  Steaming,  boiling  and  mixing  with  grains,  shorts, 
meal,  bran,  corn,  etc.,  make  an  excellent  fattening  food  for  hogs 
and  one  greatly  relished.  We  feed  thein  after  being  frozen  the  same 
as  before  without  any  apparent  bad  results. 

I have  very  briefly  and  imperfectly  touched  upon  the  many  pos- 
sibilities of  the  sweet  potato.  I trust  that  Macon  County  will  take 
the  lead  in  developing  the  almost  limitless  possibilities  of  this 
splendid  crop  and  show  its  relation  to  the  dairy  industry,  beef  pro- 
duction, starch  mills  and  that  it  is  the  most  important  and  useful 
of  all  our  root  crops  for  the  feeding  of  farm  animals. 


