Historic,  Archive  Document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  l<nowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


AD-8S  Bookplate 

NATIONAL 


LIBRARY 


FOOD  FROM  THE  HEART 

OF  SOUL 


A  *GOIiraTJlII0F 
FAVORITE  RECIPES  OF 
SERO.  FNS  EMPLOYEES 


1987 

USDA,  National  Agricultural  Library 
NAL  BIdg 

10301  Baltimore  Blvd 
Beitsville,  MD  20705-2351 


V 


V 


FOOD  FROM  THE 
HEART  OF 
SOUL 


A  Collection  of  Favorite  Recipes  of  SERO  FNS  Employees 


1987 


FOREWORD 
VIRGIL  CONRAD,  ADMINISTRATOR 


The  Southeast  Regional  Office  (SERO)  strives  to  improve  work 
relations  by  creating  within  the  realms  of  management  an 
atmosphere  of  respect  for  persons  of  different  life  styles  in  the 
work  area.     The  longer  people  are  exposed  to  interpersonal 
working  relationships  built  around  a  common  goal,  the  greater  are 
the  chances  for  mutual  respect  of  lasting  value  which  ultimately 
could  result  in  greater  work  productivity. 

The  SERO  supports  the  observance  of  Black  History  month  wherein 
greater  respect  may  result  as  employees  learn  more  about  cultural 
backgrounds  and  life-styles.    As  a  culminating  activity  of  Black 
History  observance  this  year,  a  recipe  booklet  consisting  of  food 
dishes  served  at  an  earlier  Soul  Food  luncheon  and  the  Afro- 
American  Food  luncheon  was  developed.    The  recipes  submitted 
were  prepared  and  served  at  one  of  the  Soul  Food  Luncheons.  We 
have  identified  Soul  Food  as  a  food  of  a  particular  family,  a 
particular  race,   religion  and  area  of  country  (especially 
Southern)  that  is  special.     Therefore,  many  recipes  are  not  what 
most  Americans  would  consider  soul.     However,  in  the  context  of 
how  soul  is  identified  the  Jewish,  American,  English  and  other 
food  recipes  included  are  soul  since  they  are  special  to  the 
particular  employee  submitting  the  recipe. 

A  section  of  the  cookbook  is  devoted  to  recipes  of  early  American 
blacks  researched  by  Pearlena  (Pam)  Askew,  coordinator  for  Black 
History  observance.    We  encourage  you  to  prepare  some  of  these 
recipes  as  have  some  of  our  staff.    We  feel  that  once  you  have 
read  the  background  of  Soul  Food  and  its  origin,  you  will  develop 
a  greater  respect  for  all  people  regardless  of  their  ancestry. 

Appreciation  is  expressed  to  all  SERO  employees  who  shared  their 
Soul  Food  recipes. 


CONTENT 


I.         MEAT  DISHES 
II.       VEGETABLE  AND  SALAD  DISHES 
III.  BREADS 
IV.  DESSERTS 
V.       SOUL  PLEASERS 

A.  BAKING  TIP   (BROWN  BAGGING  IT) 

B.  AFRICAN  DISHES  (Served  Afro-American  Luncheon) 

C.  COLLECTION  OF  SOUL  FOOD  RECIPES 

D.  SEASONING  STOCK 
VI.  BIBLIOGRAPHY 


MEAT  DISHES 


Lipton  Onion-Mushroom  Meat  Loaf 
Submitted  by  Jean  Brinkley 


1  envelope  lipton  onion-mushroom  mix 

1/2  cup  water 

1  1/2  pounds  ground  beef 

1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs 

1  egg 

1/2  cup  catsup 

Preheat  oven  to  350  degrees. 

In  medium  bowl,  combine  lipton  onion-mushroom  mix  and  water;  add 
ground  beef,  bread  crumbs,  egg,  and  catsup. 

Shape  into  loaf  and  place  in  shallow  baking  pan;  bake  45  minutes 
or  until  done.     Makes  4  to  6  servings. 


Deviled  Eggs 
Submitted  by  Margo  Hester 


Cut  hard  boiled  egg  in  half  lengthwise.    Mix  egg  yolks  with 
enough  sweet  pickle  relish  and  juice  to  flavor,  but  not  enough  to 
make  consistency  of  egg  yolk  runny.     Refill  egg  whites.  (Don't 
use  mayonnaise,  and  eggs  last  longer  in  warm  weather).  Sprinkle 
half  of  the  eggs  with  paprika. 

For  eggs  that  come  out  of  the  shell  easily,  place  eggs  in 
saucepan  and  cover  with  cold  water  at  least  one  inch  above  eggs. 
Rapidly  bring  to  boiling.     When  water  boils,  reduce  heat  at  once 
to  keep  water  just  below  simmering.    Cover  and  cook  eggs  for  15 
to  20  minutes.    Cool  immediately  in  cold  water.    Crack  shell  all 
over  then  roll  egg  gently  between  the  palms  of  your  hands  to 
loosen  shell.     Start  to  peel  egg  from  large  end. 


Lamb  Fries 
Submitted  by  FNS  Employee 

Also  known  as  animelles,  frivolite'es  or  "mountain  oysters"  these 
testicles  of  young  lambs  are  a  great  delicacy. 

To  prepare,  first  cut  into  the  loose  outer  skin  for  the  entire 
length  of  the  swelled  surface.    Remove  this  skin  and  again  cut 
into  the  two  inner  skins  in  the  same  manner,  disturbing  the  flesh 
as  little  as  possible  in  peeling  off  these  skins;  an  oval  flesh 
form  will  remain.     Soak  the  peeled  fries  in  enough  cold  water  to 
cover  for  about  3  hours,  refrigerated,  changing  the  water  several 
times  during  this  period.    Drain.    Cover  fries  with  fresh  cold 
water.    Bring  to  a  boil.    Reduce  heat  at  once  and  simmer  about  6 
min.    Drain  again  and  plunge  into  cold  water  until  cool. 

Prepare  as  above  and  slice  thinly  crosswise: 

4  lamb  fries 

Fry  in  deep  fat  heated  to  365  degrees  until  golden,  serve  with 
lemon  slices  or  combined  with  scrambled  eggs.    Serves  2. 


BARBEQUE  PORK  CHOPS 
Submitted  by  Pearlena  Askew 

Fresh  pork  chops 

Margarine 

Paprika 

Worcestershire  Sauce 
Garlic  salt 

Wipe  chops  with  clean  damp  cloth;  season  with  garlic  salt  and 
paprika  to  taste.    Place  in  an  iron  skillet  with  a  small  amount 
of  margarine,   just  enough  to  keep  from  sticking  -  about  1 
tablespoon.     Cook  over  moderate  heat  until  well  done.  Chops 
should  be  browned  on  each  side.    Sprinkle  Worcestershire  Sauce 
generously  and  remove  from  heat  and  serve.     Garnish  with  lemon 
wedges  and  parsley. 

(Garlic  powder  should  be  used  in  place  of  garlic  salt  if  salt  is 
not  allowed.) 


VEGETABLES  AND  SALAD 


1 


RED  BEANS  AND  RICE 
Submitted  by  Cassandra  Lloyd 


This  is  the  way  red  beans  and  rice  were  cooked  in  the  old  days  - 
loaded  with  meat  and  steeped  in  a  rich,  natural  gravy.    You  must 
include  a  large  ham  bone,  whose  marrow  gives  the  beans  that 
creamy  texture  and  distinctive  smoky  flavor.     Many  supermarkets 
now  carry  only  preboned  hams,  and  you  may  have  difficulty  finding 
ham  bones.    Ask  your  local  packer  which  butchers  still  bone  their 
own  hams  and  but  the  bones  in  large  batches.    Ham  bones  freeze 
well,  and  a  good  supply  in  the  freezer  will  enable  you  to  prepare 
red  beans  the  right  way  whenever  you  wish.    If  you  have  any  left 
over,  red  beans  freeze  beautifully.    Just  add  a  little  water  and 
perhaps  a  pinch  of  salt  when  you  reheat  them. 

Be  sure  to  use  baked  rather  than  country  or  smoked  ham  in  this 
and  all  other  New  Orleans  beans  dishes.    Smoked  ham  is  too  salty 
and  will  unbalance  the  seasoning.    Pickled  pork  is  pork  shoulder 
marinated  in  brine  for  over  a  week;  New  Orleans  markets  regularly 
carry  it,  but  elsewhere  you  probably  will  not  find  it.    A  good 
substitute  for  pickled  pork  is  salt  pork;  with  salt  pork 
eliminate  all  other  salt  in  the  recipe. 

(for  8  or  more) 


2  pounds  dried  red  (kidney)  beans,  soaked 
overnight  in  cold  water  to  cover. 

2  c.  chopped  onion 

1/2  c.  thinly  sliced  green  shallot 
(scallion)  tops 

1/2  c.  chopped  green  pepper 

1  1/3  tbs.  finely  minced  garlic 

2  tbs.  finely  minced  parsley 
1  lb.  seasoning  (baked)  ham, 

cut  into  1-inch  cubes 
1  lb.  pickled  pork,  cut  into 

large  chunks 
1  large  ham  bone  with  some  meat 

on  it,  sawed  into  4-to-5  inch 

length 


1  tbs.  salt 

1/2  tsp.  freshly 

ground  pepper 
1/8  tsp  cayenne 
1/8  tsp.  crushed 

red  pepper  pods 

2  whole  bay  leaves, 
broken  into 
quarters 

1/2  tsp.  dried  thyme 

1/8  tsp.  dried  basil 
2  qt.  cold  water 
(approximately) 
Boiled  rice 


Drain  the  soaked  beans  in  a  colander  and  put  them,  along  with  all 
the  other  ingredients,  into  a  heavy  8  to  10  qt.  pot  or  kettle, 
adding  just  enough  of  the  cold  water  to  cover.    Bring  to  a  boil 
over  high  heat,  then  lower  the  heat  and  simmer  on  low  heat  for  2 
1/3  to  3  hours  or  until  the  beans  are  tender  and  a  thick  natureal 
gravy  has  formed.    Add  about  1  cup  of  water  toward  the  end  of 
cooking  if  the  mixture  appears  too  dry. 


RED  BEANS  AND  RICE  (Continued) 


During  cooking,  stir  frequently  and  scrape  down  the  sides  and 
across  the  bottom  of  the  pot  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  spatula  to 
prevent  scorching.     (If  you  use  a  heavy  pot  and  very  low  heat- 
just  high  enough  to  keep  the  barest  simmer  going,  you  should  have 
no  problem  with  beans  sticking  to  the  pot  during  cooking.)  Stir 
the  entire  mixture  thoroughly,  about  every  half-hour. 

When  the  beans  are  cooked,  turn  off  the  heat.    To  serve,  ladle 
about  1  1/2  cups  of  beans  with  meat  and  gravy  over  a  portion 
(about  2/3  cup)  of  boiled  rice. 


Cook  broccoli.      Drain.    Combine  all  other  ingredients,  except 
cracker  crumbs  to  make  sauce.    Combine  sauce  with  broccoli.  Pour 
into  casserole;  spinkle  top  with  cracker  crumbs.    Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  25-30  minutes. 


Dissolve  1  package  gelatin  in  water  (as  directed  on  gelatin 
package) . 

Dissolve  1  package  cherry  or  strawberry  Jello  in  1/2  cup  boiling 
water  and  add  1  can  cranberry  sauce. 

Add:     1  small  can  crushed  pineapple  and  juice 
2  apples,  chopped 
1/2  cup  celery  (if  desired) 
1  or  2  oranges  (ground) 
1/2  cup  nuts 
gelatin  mixture 

Makes  6  individual  molds. 


BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE 
Submitted  by  Jean  Brinkley 


1  pkg.  frozen  broccoli 
1/2  c.  sharp  natural  cheese 
1/4  c.  mayonnaise 
salt/pepper  to  taste 


1/2  c.  condensed  mushroom  soup 

1  egg,  well  beaten 

1  tbs  grated  onion 

1/2  c.  cheese  cracker  crumbs 


CONGEALED  CRANBERRY  SALAD 
Submitted  by  Jean  Brinkley 


MIXED  VEGETABLE  SALAD 
Submitted  by  Shirley  A.  Jones 

1  can  mixed  vegetables 

(Use  can  size  according  to  servings) 

2  boiled  eggs  (or  more) 
Mayonnaise 

Pickles  (sweet  or  dill) 

Grated  onions  (to  taste) 

Onion  salt 

Accent 

Garlic  salt 

Black  pepper 


Drain  vegetables  thoroughly.     Mix  ingredients.     Use  seasoning 
according  to  taste.     Serve  at  room  temperature  or  chilled. 

Variation:  A  variety  of  chopped  luncheon  meats  and  cheese  may  be 
added  for  a  mixed  vegetable  chef  salad. 


ASHEVILLE  SALAD 
Submitted  by  Catherine  Rogers 


Heat  1  can  condensed  tomato  soup  (not  diluted) . 
Melt  in  it  one  8-ounce  package  cream  cheese. 

Add  2  envelopes  plain  gelating  which  have  been  softened  in  1/2  cup 
cold  water. 

Cool  slightly  and  add  1  cup  mayonnaise. 

Add  1/2  cup  each  chopped  celery,  green  bell  pepper  and  onion. 
Pour  in  mold.  Chill. 


BEET  SALAD  -  CONGEALED 
Submitted  by  Jean  Brinkley 


1  pkg.  lemon  jello 

1  cup  boiling  water 
3/4  cup  beet  juice 
3  tbs.  vinegar 

3/4  c.  diced  beets 

2  tsp.  grated  onion 
1/2  tsp.  salt 


Mix,  chill  and  serve. 


KENTUCKY  COLESLAW 
Submitted  by  Wilma  Alley 


2  medium  heads  cabbage,  shredded 

3  large  carrots,  grated 

1  large  green  pepper,  chopped 
3  cups  sugar 

1  1/2  cups  white  vinegar 

1  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  1/2  tablespoon  celery  seeds 

1  1/2  teaspoon  mustard  seeds 

Combine  cabbage,  carrot,  green  pepper  in  large  bowl;  set  aside. 

Combine  sugar,  vinegar,  and  salt;  bring  to  a  boil  and  boil  2  to  3 
minutes.     Cool.     Stir  celery  seed  and  mustard  seed  into  vinegar 
mixture;  pour  over  vegetables,  stirring  well.    Cover  and 
refrigerate  24  hours.    Yield:     about  5  quarts. 

Note:     Slaw  may  be  stored  several  weeks  in  refrigerator. 


Bacon,  Cheese,  Hash  Brown  Potatoes 
Submitted  by  Pearlena  (Pam)  Askew 

3-  4  medium  size  white  potatoes  (preferably  russet) 

4-  6  slices  breakfast  bacon 

4-6  slices  of  Cheddar  cheese  (1  slice  per  person) 

Pepper  (black  or  white) 

Paprika 

Cook  breakfast  bacon  (preferably  broiled).     Wash  potatoes,  scrub 
skin  and  slice  thin  or  dice  into  small  pieces.     Add  pepper 
(preferably  white)  and  paprika.     Place  into  hot  bacon  drippings. 
(It  is  not  necessary  to  add  salt  since  the  bacon  is  salty.) 
Brown  potatoes,  stirring  often  to  avoid  sticking  (approximately 
20  minutes).     Cover  cooked  potatoes  with  sliced  cheese.  Served 
with  juice  or  milk. 


I 


BREADS 


YORKSHIRE  PUDDING 
Submitted  by  Liz  Pendleton 


1  cup  all-purpose  flour 

1  cup  milk 

2  eggs 

1/2  teaspoon  salt 

1/4  cup  drippings  from  beef  roast 

Mix  first  four  ingredients  with  hand  beater  until  smooth.  Place 
beef  drippings  in  heated  square  pan.     Pour  in  pudding  batter. 
Bake  at  425  degrees  for  25  minutes  until  puffed  and  golden  brown. 
Cut  into  squares;  serve  with  beef.     8  servings. 


MISSISSIPPI  CORN  BREAD 
Submitted  by  Kay  Briggs 


Blend: 

2  eggs,  beaten 
1  cup  sour  cream 
1/2  cup  cooking  oil 
1  cup  creamed  corn 

Mix  in  another  bowl: 
1  cup  corn  meal 
1  1/2  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Add  dry  mix  to  liquid.     Put  a  little  oil  in  iron  (10"  skillet) 
frying  pan  and  heat.    Pour  mix  into  warm  pan.    Bake  at  375 
degrees  for  30  minutes  or  until  well  browned. 


HONEY  DEW  BISCUITS 
Submitted  by  Rosalie  Pendergrast 

1  cup  butter 

1  cup  honey 

2  cups  flour 
1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  sour  cream 
1  tsp.  soda 
1/2  tsp.  salt 
1  egg 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  bake  in  greased,  floured  muffin 
tin  at  400  degrees  for  30  minutes. 


CHEESE  WAFERS 
Submitted  by  Jean  Brinkley 

1  cup  grated  cheese  -  room  temperature 
1/2  c.  margarine  -  room  temperature 
1  cup  flour  -  plain 
1  cup  rice  krispies 
1/8  tsp.  salt 
1/2  tsp  hot  sauce 

Mix  ingredients. 

Roll  into  ball  and  pat  flat. 

Cook  15-20  min.  in  350  degree  oven. 


DATE  NUT  BREAD 
Submitted  by  Jean  Brinkley 


1  cup  chopped  pecans 
1  cup  chopped  dates 
1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  boiling  water 

2  1/4  cups  flour 
1  egg 

1  teaspoon  soda 
1  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  tablespoon  shortening 

Put  dates,  sugar,  shortening  into  a  bowl.    Over  this  pour  the 
boiling  water.    Let  cool.    Sift  soda,  salt  and  baking  powder  with 
flour;  add  nuts  and  mix  well.    Pour  the  first  mixture  into  the 
flour  and  mix  until  free  of  lumps.    Add  beaten  egg.    Pour  into  a 
greased  loaf  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  45  minutes. 
The  time  depends  on  the  thickness  of  the  loaf. 


NO-KNEAD  HERB  BREAD 
Submitted  by  Wilma  Alley 


2  packages  dry  yeast 

2  cups  warm  water  (105  degrees  to  115  degrees) 
1/2  cup  sugar 
2  teaspoons  salt 

2  cups  whole-wheat  flour,  divided 

4  to  5  cups  all-purpose  flour,  divided 

1  egg 

1/4  cup  vegetable  oil 

3/4  teaspoon  dried  whole  sage 

3/4  teaspoon  dried  whole  basil 

Dissolve  yeast  in  water.     Combine  yeast  mixture,  sugar,  salt,  1 
cup  whole-wheat  flour  and  2  cups  all-purpose  flour  in  a  large 
mixing  bowl.    Beat  with  electric  mixer  for  2  minutes.    Add  egg, 
oil,  herbs  and  1/2  cup  all-purpose  flour;  beat  with  electric 
mixer  for  2  minutes. 

Combine  remaining  flour,  stirring  well;  gradually  stir  into 
batter,  using  enough  to  form  a  moderately  stiff  dough.  Divide 
dough  in  half;  place  each  portion  in  a  greased  bowl,  turning  to 
grease  top.     Let  rise  until  double  in  size  at  room  temperature. 
Shape  into  loaves  and  place  in  loaf  pan.     Bake  at  350  degrees 
until  done.    Test:     bread  will  separate  from  the  side  of  the  pan 
when  done.     Also,  a  toothpick  will  remain  clean  when  inserted 
into  bread,  if  done. 


SOUL  PLEASERS 


BROWN  BAGGING  IT 
Submitted  by  Betty  Wills 


8  lb.  ham 

Place  ham  in  brown  paper  bag.    Twist  bag  tight  at  opening  "so  the 
gravy  won't  run  out".    Put  in  pan  without  a  top.    Cook  in  a  275 
degree  oven  until  tender  (I  do  not  put  brown  sugar  or  anything  on 
top  of  this  ham.) 


FOOD  DISHES  OF  AFRICA 


AFRICAN  DISHES 


LENTIL  SANDWICHES 

3/4  cup  lentils 
4  cups  water 

1  tsp  lemon  juice 

2  tsp.  horseradish  or  spiced  mustard 
1  tbs.  butter,  melted 

1/4  cup  onion,  minced 
12  slices  bread 
chopped  parsley 

Boil  lentils  for  45-60  minutes,  or  until  tender.     Drain  off 
water;  mash.    Add  lemon  juice,  horseradish  or  spiced  mustard, 
butter,  and  onions.     Heat;   salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Spread  on 
slices  of  bread,  preferably  the  flat,  round  Arabian  loaves, 
jl     Garnish  with  parsley.     Serves  6. 

t 

Sudan 


COCONUT  DESSERT 

1  coconut 

1  cup  water 

2  tsp.  gelatin 

2  eggs,  separated 

3  tbs.  sugar 

1  cup  cream,  whipped 

Grate  the  coconut  meat;  add  coconut  to  1  cup  water  and  boil  for 
20  minutes.     Strain;   this  should  make  3/4  cup  of  liquid. 
Dissolve  the  gelatin  in  the  liquid.     Beat  egg  yolks  with  sugar 
until  well-blended.     Slowly  add  gelatin  and  coconut  to  this. 
Refrigerate.     When  it  begins  to  set,  fold  in  the  whipped  cream. 
Refrigerate  until  this  also  has  begun  to  set,  and  fold  in  beaten 
egg  whites.    Refrigerate  until  set.    Good  served  with  maraschino 
cherries.     Serves  4-5. 


GROUNDNUT  STEW 


English  colonists  called  peanuts  groundnuts,  giving  this 
celebrated  West  African  dish  its  unusual  naw^  — 


1  2  1/2  to  3  pound  broiler-fryer 

chicken,  cut  up 
3  tablespoons  cooking  oil 

1  pound  beef  stew  meet,  cut  into 
1-inch  pieces 

2  medium  onions,  chopped 

1  medium  green  pepper,  chopped 
1  28-ounce  can  tomatoes 

cut  up 
1  teaspoon  salt 

1  to  2  teaspoons  ground  red  pepper 
3/4  cup  peanut  butter 

Mashed  sweet  potatoes  or  hot  cooked  rice 


In  a  large  saucepan  or  Dutch  oven  brown  chicken  pieces  in  hot  oil 
about  15  minutes;   remove  from  pan.    Set  aside,  reserving 
drippings.    Add  beef,  onion,  and  green  pepper  to  drippings;  cook 
till  beef  is  brown  and  onion  is  tender.    Drain  off  fat.     Stir  in 
undrained  tomatoes,  salt,  and  red  pepper.     Bring  to  boiling; 
reduce  heat.    Cover;  simmer  30  minutes.    Add  chicken  pieces; 
simmer  20  minutes  more.    In  small  saucepan  melt  peanut  butter 
over  low  heat.    Stir  into  chicken  mixture.    Return  mixture  to 
boiling;  reduce  heat.    Cover;  simmer  20  minutes  more.    Skim  off 
fat.    Serve  with  mashed  sweet  potatoes  or  hot  cooked  rice.  Makes 
8  to  10  servings. 


JOLLOF  RICE 


1  2  1/2  -  to  3  -  pound  broiler-fryer 

chicken,  cut  up 

2  tbls  peanut  oil  or  cooking  oil 
1  medium  onion,  chopped 

1  16-ounce  can  tomatoes,  cut  up 
1  1/4  cups  chicken  broth 
1  bay  leaf 


1/2  tsp  ground  ginger, 
cinnamon,  or 
dried  thyme, 
crushed 

1/2  tsp  salt 

1/4  tsp  ground  red 
pepper 

1  cup  long  grain  rice 

1  tbls  snipped  parsley 


In  a  large  skillet  brown  chicken  pieces  on  both  sides  in  hot  oil 
about  15  minutes;  remove  from  skillet.    Set  chicken  aside, 
reserving  drippings.     Add  the  onion  to  drippings;   cook  till 
tender  but  not  brown.     Drain  off  fat.     Return  chicken  to  skillet. 
Combine  undrained  tomatoes;  chicken  broth;  bay  leaf;  ginger, 
cinnamon,  or  thyme;  salt;  and  ground  red  pepper.    Pour  over 
chicken.    Do  not  stir.    Bring  to  boiling;  reduce  heat.  Cover; 
simmer  for  30  minutes.    Skim  off  fat.    Add  the  rice,  making  sure 
all  the  rice  is  covered  with  liquid.    Cover;  simmer  for  30 
minutes  more  or  until  rice  is  tender.    Remove  bay  leaf.  Sprinkle 
with  snipped  parsley.     Makes  6  servings. 


COLLECTION  OF  SOUL  FOOD  RECIPES 

BY:     PEARLENA   (PAM)  ASKEW 

I.  MEAT  AND  POULTRY 

II.  VEGETABLES 

III.  DESSERTS 

IV.  SEASONING  STOCK 


Background 
Kinds  of  Foods 
Pearlena  Askew 


Soul  food,  in  the  past,  usually  consisted  of  utilizing  leftovers 
and  preparing  food  dishes  common  to  the  south  and  native  homeland 
(Africa).     Such  products  as  sweet  potatoes,  peanuts,  peas,  beans, 
turnip  greens  and  collard  greens  (formerly  identified  as  colored 
greens),  corn  and  corn  products  were  often  used.     Peaches,  plums, 
apples,  pears,  figs,  wild  fruit  and  berries  (blackberries, 
blueberries,  grapes,  persimmons,  etc.)  along  with  the  traditional 
melons  were  the  fruits  commonly  used.     Just  as  George  Washington 
Carver  exercised  his  talent  in  discovering  over  300  variety  uses 
of  the  peanut,  the  soul  food  cook  expressed  such  talent  in  making 
less  desirable  food  products  desirable.     Variety  in  preparation 
was  the  most  significant  characteristic  of  the  soul  food  dish. 
Each  cook  had  his  or  her  trade-mark  that  continues  to  exist  today 
which  makes  the  food  dish  a  speciality  of  soul.    Often  times,  the 
secret  of  good  taste  not  only  depended  upon  the  kind  of  herbs  and 
spices  used  but  in  the  method  of  preparation.    Unpopular  meat 
products  such  as  ham  hocks,  cracklin,  neck  bones,  liver, 
chitterlins,  kidneys,  ham  bones  and  leftovers  or  bits  and  pieces 
of  this  and  that  (beans,  peas,  okra,  corn,  etc.),  made  flavorful 
one-pot  meals  of  soups,  stews  and  gumbos.    The  term  gumbo  is  of 
African  origin,  the  African  name  for  orka  stew.    This  soup, 
usually  thickened  with  orka  pods  often  containing  meat  or  seafood 
is  almost  identical  to  American  gumbo.     Unlike  the  native  land 
(Africa)  where  chicken,  beef,  pork,  lamb  and  fish  made  up  portion 
of  meat  in  the  diet,  the  choice  parts  of  these  meats  were 
reserved  for  the  slave  owner. 


A  Bit  of  Nutrition 

In  addition  to  saving  money,  well-balanced  meals  may  be  planned 
from  some  southern  food  products  due  to  their  high  nutritive 
value.     For  instance,  a  serving  of  lean  pork  contains 
approximately  fifteen  times  as  much  thiamine  (31  vitamin)  as  a 
serving  of  roast  beef  of  equal  weight.    One  cup  of  properly 
prepared  collard  greens  contain  calcium  equivalent  to  a  glass  of 
milk,  as  much  iron  as  one  large  egg,  and  enough  vitamin  C  and  A 
normally  needed  by  the  average  adult  in  one  day. 


Cooking  Methods 


Cooking  methods  are  being  upgraded.     Because  of  today's  thrust 
toward  nutrition  education  and  the  concern  of  physicians  and 
other  health  officials,  frying  and  excessive  use  of  animal  fat  . 
(lard,  butter,  fat-back,  pig  tails  and  pig  feet)  are  no  longer 
prevalent  in  the  diet  of  most  Blacks.  Vegetables  are  cooked  more 
often  with  corn  oil,  margarine  rather  than  butter  and  the  amount 
of  ham  hocks  or  fat-back  is  reduced.    In  many  instances,  no  fat- 
back  or  ham  hock  is  used  at  all. 

The  foods  which  tend  to  provide  saturated  fats  (stored  in  the  fat 
tissue)  often  lead  to  obesity  and  heart  disease  and  are  now 
avoided.     In  the  past,  work  was  hard  and  the  hours  long;  the  body 
was  able  to  burn  off  or  utilize  much  of  the  fat.    Fat  supplied 
energy  and  heat  (especially  during  the  winter).     Generous  herbs 
and  spices  were  used  in  many  different  ways  in  the  preparation  of 
these  dishes.     Today,  fish  has  become  more  prevalent  in  the  diet. 
A  variety  of  fruits  and  vegetables  are  included  such  as  broccoli, 
cauliflower,  spinach.  Mangos,  and  many  other  type  food  which 
improves  the  diet.     The  today's  black  cook  is  just  as  eager  to 
try  new  cooking  methods  for  these  foods  as  those  in  the  past. 

The  suggested  references  were  used  and  are  provided  in  the 
bibliography  for  additional  information. 


MEATS  AND  POULTRY 


1.  Milk  Baked  Ham 

2.  Beef  Stew  and  Dumplings 

3.  Fried  Ham  -  Red  Eye  Gravy 

4.  Chitterlins 

5.  Baked  Turkey  (Foil  Wrapped) 

6.  Scrapple 


Milk  Baked  Ham 


1  tablespoon  flour  2  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

2  teaspoons  dry  mustard  1  2-inch  thick  ham  slice 

Sweet  milk 

Combine  flour,  mustard  and  sugar.    Rub  mixture  on  both  sides  of 
ham.    Place  in  baking  dish  and  pour  over  enough  milk  to  cover. 
Bake  350  degrees  for  1  hour  or  until  tender.     Surface  should  be 
brown  and  milk  almost  disappeared. 


Beef  Stew  and  Dumplings 


1  pound  stew  beef 

1/4  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  salt 

1/4  teaspoon  pepper 

Shortening 

3  cups  hot  water 

1  teaspoon  Worchestershire  Sauce 
1  teaspoon  salt 
1/4  teaspoon  thyme 
1/2  teaspoon  pepper 


2  sprigs  of  green  celery 

leaves 
4  whole  cloves 
1  clove  garlic 
1  bay  leaf 

4  potatoes,  quartered 
6  carrots 

6  small  white  onions 

1  1/2  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  cold  water 


Dredge  meat  in  1/4  cup  flour  which  has  been  seasoned  with  1 
teaspoon  salt  and  1/4  teaspoon  pepper.    Brown  meat  in  about  1/4 
inch  deep  hot  shortening.  Drain.     Place  meat  in  stew  pot  and  add 
water,  Worchestershire  Sauce,  thyme,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  1/2 
teaspoon  pepper.    Tie  celery  leaves,  cloves,  garlic  and  bay  leaf 
in  small  piece  of  cheesecloth.    Place  in  stew  pot.  Simmer, 
covered,  for  1  3/4  to  2  hours  or  until  meat  is  almost  tender. 
Add  potatoes,  carrots  and  onions.    Continue  simmering  40  to  50 
minutes  until  vegetables  are  tender.    Remove  cheesecloth  with 
seasonings.    Thicken  with  1  1/2  tablespoons  of  flour  stirred  to 
soft  paste  in  water.    Cook  until  thickened.    Serve  stew  in  a 
heated  deep  dish.     Makes  4  to  6  servings. 


Dumplings 

1  3/4  cups  flour  1  egg, beaten 

3/4  teaspoons  salt  1/3  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  2  tablespoons  margarine, 

1/4  teaspoon  black  pepper  melted 

Sift  together  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  and  pepper.    Stir  in 
egg,  milk  and  margarine;  mix  until  dry  inredients  are  dampened. 
Drop  by  tablespoonsf ul  into  boiling  stew.     (Push  meat  aside  so 
that  dumplings  go  into  liquid.)     Cover  and  let  simmer  for  15 
minutes . 

NOTE:     If  dumplings  are  added  to  the  stew  recipe  above,  drop  into 
thickened  stew  and  simmer,  covered  15  minutes. 


Fried  Ham  -  Red  Eve  Gravv 


Slice  ham  1/8  to  1/4  inch  thick.    Slash  fat  around  edges  to  keep 
ham  from  curling  up  while  cooking.    Place  slices  in  an  iron 
skillet  and  cook  over  low  flame  until  ham  is  brown.    Turn  several 
times  while  cooking.    Remove  ham  from  pan  and  keep  warm.    Add  1/4 
cup  water  to  drippings  in  skillet;  cook  over  low  flame  until 
gravy  turns  redish-brown.    Add  about  2  tablespoons  of  strong 
coffeerif  desired,  to  deepen  the  color.    Serve  over  hot  grits. 


Sliced  Streak-O-Lean  Pork  and  Gravv 

1/2  pound  salt  pork 

1  cup  water 

2  to  3  tablespoons  shortening 

Slice  pork  very  thin.     Place  sliced  pork  in  saucepan  and  cover 
with  water.     Simmer  for  10  minutes.     Remove  from  water  and  drain. 
Dip  in  flour.     Heat  shortening  in  a  large  skillet;  add  bacon 
slices  and  cook  over  medium  flame  until  brown.    Turn  to  brown  on 
other  side.     Place  on  paper  towel  to  drain.    Makes  3  servings. 

Gravv 

2  tablespoons  bacon  fat 
2  tablespoons  flour 
1  1/2  cups  milk 

Heat  bacon  fat  from  skillet  and  add  flour.    Cover  over  low  flame 
until  brown,  stiring  constantly.  Turn  off  flame.    Add  1/2  cup 
milk,  slowly  stirring  to  blend.    Cook  stirring  constantly  over 
low  heat  until  gravy  thickens. 


Chitterlins 

5  pounds  chitterlins  1  stalk  celery 
2-3  small  red  pepper  pods  1  teaspoon  pepper 
2  cloves  garlic  1/4  cup  vinegar 

6  whole  cloves  Boiling  water 
1  large  onion 


■ng 

covered,  over  low  flame  about 


Scrapple 


1  pound  lean  pork 
Water 


1  large  onion,  chopped 

2  teaspoons  sage 

1/2  teaspoon  black  pepper 
Dash  cloves 


2/3  cup  cornmeal 
2  teaspoons  salt 


Place  meat  in  saucepan;  add  enough  water  to  cover.    Cook  over 
low  flame  until  meat  is  tender.    Remove  meat  £rom  broth;  cut  or 
grind  into  small  pieces.    Strain  broth  into  top  of  large  double 
boiler.    Add  cornmeal  slowly,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent 
lumping.    Cook  and  stir  over  medium  flame  for  5  minutes.  Add 
meat,  chopped  onion,  pepper  and  cloves;  add  more  salt  if 
necessary.    Cover  and  cook  over  boiling  water  for  1  hour.  Pack 
into  small  loaf  pans.    Serve  cold  or  pan  fry  with  or  without 
butter . 


Note:     Scrapple  is  a  seasoned  mush  of  meat  scraps  and  cornmeal 
chopped  together,  molded  and  sliced  cold  or  fried. 


VEGETABLES 


1. 

Green  Leafy  Vegetables 

2. 

Cornmeal  Dumplings 

3. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

4. 

Fried  Okra 

5. 

Southern  Fried  Corn 

6. 

Fried  Corn  and  Eggs 

7. 

Georgia  Gumbo 

Green  Leafy  Vegetables 
(Collards,  Turnips  (Sallet)  or  Mustard  Greens) 


1  large  bunch  greens  about  2  to  2  1/2  pounds 
1/4  pound  salt  port^diced,  or  2  small  ham  hocks 

2  quarts  boiling  water 
Salt  to  taste 

Check  leaves  of  fresh  greens  carefully;   remove  pulpy  stems  and 
discolored  spots  on  leaves.     Wash  thoroughly  in  several  changes 
of  warm  water.    Add  about  2  tablespoons  salt  to  last  water. 
Place  greens  in  colander  to  drain.     Cook  slices  of  salt  pork  in 
boiling  water  for  20  minutes.    Add  greens,  a  few  at  a  time, 
stiring  constantly.     Season  with  salt  to  taste.     Cover  and  cook 
over  low  flame  until  greens  are  tender.    This  usually  takes  about 
1  1/2  to  2  hours. 

Note:     1.    Cornmeal  dumplings  can  be  added  to  greens  during  last 
15  or  20  minutes  of  cooking. 


2.  Summer  greens  have  a  tendency  to  be  tough.    After  the 
first  frost  the  greens  are  tender  and  cook  in  much 
less  time.     The  frost  puts  a  purple  edge  on  the  leaves 
and  the  flavor  is  greatly  improved. 

3.  Salt  added  for  taste  may  be  omitted. 


Sift  together  cornmeal,  flour,  soda  and  salt.     Add  eggs  and 
buttermilk.     Stir  in  butter.     Drop  by  tablespoonsf ul  in  vegetable 
liquid  (pot  likker)  .     Cover  and  cook  10  to  15  minutes. 

Note:     Pot  Likker  is  the  liquid  portion  of  cooked  fresh 

vegetables,  dried  peas  and  beans.     (The  word  likker  comes 
from  the  term  like-meaning  the  juice  from  greens  is 
delicious  and  nutritious) . 


Cornmeal  Dumplings  No.  I 


1  cup  cornmeal 

1/4  cup  all-purpose  flour 

1  teaspoon  soda 

1/2  teaspoon  salt 


2  eggs,  beaten 
1/2  cup  buttermilk 
1  tablespoon  butter, 


melted 


Green  Leafy  Vegetables  -  Afro-American  Style 
(Turnips,  Collards,  Mustards,  Spinach,  Cabbage) 


Note:     This  applies  to  most  any  tender  cut  greens. 

1.  Wash  greens  well,  until  free  of  dirt. 

2.  Place  into  pot,  3  or  4  strips  of  lean  salt  pork  (washed)  or 
breakfast  bacon.  Cook  in  a  pot  covered  until  done. 
Remove  meat  and  drain. 

3.  Add  wet  greens  directly  from  final  rinsing  to  pot  with  hot 
meat  drippings.     Stir  fry  using  fork  and  cook  until  tender 
(about  15  -  30  minutes  depending  on  type  of  greens).     Do  not 
add  salt  as  the  salt  meat  is  sufficient  for  seasoning. 

4.  Serve  as  desired.  Mote,  corn  oil  may  be  used  in  place  of 
meat  to  season  greens.  If  vegetable  oil  is  used,  salt  or 
other  type  seasoning  is  needed. 


Baked  Sweet  or  White  Potatoes 

6  medium  sweet  potatoes  2  tablespoons  vegetable  oil 

Scrub  potatoes  and  dry  thoroughly.     Coat  potatoes  with  vegetable 
oil  and  bake  in  a  shallow  pan  at  375  degrees  for  45  minutes  or 
until  soft.    Remove  from  oven;  prick  potatoes  with  fork  to 
release  steam.     Cut  cross  in  top  of  each  potato;  press  both  ends 
until  potato  bursts  through.     Top  with  butter. 


Fried  Okra 

1  1/2  pounds  fresh  okra  1/2  cup  cornmeal 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  4  tablespoons  salad  oil 

1/8  teaspoon  pepper 

Wash  okra  and  dry  thoroughly  with  paper  towel.    Cut  in  1/2  inch 
slices.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper.    Coat  with  cornmeal.  Cook 
in  hot  salad  oil  until  lightly  brown.     Cover  and  cook  until 
tender.     Makes  4  to  6  servings. 


BREADS 


1.  Hot  Water  Cornbread 

2.  Cracklin  Cornbread 

3.  Buttermilk  Biscuits 

4.  Cornineal  Battercakes 

5.  Buttermilk  Cornbread 


Hot  Water  Cornbread 


1  cup  cornmeal 

1  cup  boiling  water 

1/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  shortening 

1  egg,  beaten 

1  cup  plus  2  tablespoons  buttermilk 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Heat  a  well-oiled  iron  skillet  in  oven.    Combine  cornmeal,  boiling 
water,  salt  and  shortening;  stir  until  well  blended.    Combine  egg 
with  milk;  stir  slowly  into  cornmeal  mixture.    Add  baking  powder 
to  batter,  beating  well.    Pour  into  hot  skillet.    Bake  at  425 
degrees  for  20  to  25  minutes.     Reduce  heat  to  350  degrees; 
continue  baking  for  30  minutes,  or  until  firm  and  light  brown. 
About  6  servings. 


Cracklin  Cornbread 

1  1/2  cups  cornmeal 

2  tablespoons  flour 
1/2  teaspoon  salt 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1/4  teaspoon  soda 

1  egg,  beaten 

1  1/2  cups  buttermilk 

1  3/4  cups  cracklin 

Sift  together  cornmeal,  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  and  soda;  add 
egg  and  buttermilk.    Mix  until  all  ingredients  are  thoroughly 
blended.     Stir  in  cracklins.     Pour  into  greased  13  X  9  X  2-inch 
baking  pan.     Bake  at  450  degrees  for  20  to  25  minutes.    About  6 
servings. 

Note:    Cracklins  are  made  from  ham  rind  or  pork  belly  fat 

cut  into  small  pieces  and  cooked  in  the  oven  or  open  pot 
until  most  of  the  fat  is  extracted.    They  are  used  to 
make  either  cracklinbiscuits  or  cornbread.  Crumbled 
fried  bacon  may  be  used  as  a  substitute. 


Buttermilk  Biscuits 


2  cups  self-rising  flour 
1/4  teaspoon  soda 
1/4  cup  shortening 
3/4  to  1  cup  buttermilk 


Sift  dry  ingredients  together.     Cut  in  shortening  until  mixture 
looks  like  coarse  cornmeal.     Add  buttermilk;  mix  to  make  a  soft 
dough.     Turn  out  on  floured  surface;   knead  about  35  to  40 
seconds.     Roll  out  dough  to  1/2  inch  thickness.     Cut  with  biscuit 
cutter;   place  on  an  ungreased  baking  sheet.     Bake  at  475  degrees 
for  12  to  15  minutes. 

NOTE:     Biscuit  dough  should  be  soft.     It  might  be  necessary  to 
use  1  cup  buttermilk  because  some  flour  absorbs  more 
moisture  than  others. 


Cornmeal  Batter  Cakes 


1  1/2  cups  cornmeal 

2  tablespoons  flour 
3/4  teaspoon  salt 

1  1/2  cups  buttermilk 


2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

2  egg  yolks,  beaten 

1/2  teaspoon  soda 

2  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 


Sift  together  cornmeal,  flour  and  salt;  stir  in  buttermilk.  Add 
butter  and  beaten  egg  yolks.     Sprinkle  in  soda;   stir.     Fold  in 
egg  whites.     Drop  by  spoonsful  onto  a  greased  hot  griddle.  Cook 
until  golden  brown  on  both  sides.     Serve  hot.     Makes  about  12 
batter  cakes. 

Buttermilk  Cornbread 


1  1/2  cups  cornmeal 
1/2  cup  flour 

2  1/2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1/4  teaspoon  soda 


1  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg,  beaten 

3/4  cup  buttermilk 

1/4  cup  water 

6  tablespoons  melted  fat 


Sift  all  dry  ingredients  together;  add  egg,  buttermilk,  water  and 
melted  fat.     Mix  thoroughly.     Pour  into  a  greased  9-inch  square 
pan.     Bake  at  450  degrees  for  20  to  25  minutes. 

NOTE:     1.     Add  more  water  if  necessary  to  make  a  soft  batter. 

2.     If  a  cast  iron  skillet  is  used,  lower  the  temperature 
to  400  degrees. 


DESSERTS 

1.  Fried  Apple  Pies 

2.  Ginger  Bread 

3.  Classic  Pound  Bake 

4.  Sweet  Potato  Croquetts 

5.  Sweet  Potato  Muffins 

6.  Peanut  Cake  with  Molasses 


Fried  Apple  Pies 


Cobbler  Pastry  Dried  Apples,  cooked 

Roll  pastry  1/8  inch  thick.     Cut  into  6-inch  rounds.     Mash  and 
season  apples  to  taste  with  sugar,  butter,  cinnamon  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.     Place  2  or  3  tablespoons  fruit  on  one  half  of  each 
circle  of  dough;  moisten  edges  with  water.    Fold  dough  over 
tomake  a  semi-circle.    Press  edges  together  with  a  fork  to  seal. 
Fry  in  deep  hot  fat,  or  in  skillet  with  fat  1-inch  deep.  Brown 
on  both  sides.    Drain  on  paper  towels. 

Note:    Dried  apricots  or  peaches  can  be  used  instead  of  apples. 

Basic  Cobbler  Pastry 

(This  pastry  recipe  may  be  used  for  making  cobbler  pies  and  fried 
fruit  pies.) 

2  cups  flour  5  tablespoons  shortening 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  1/2  to  3/4  cups  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt 


Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.    Cut  in  shortening 
until  mixture  looks  like  coarse  cornmeal;  add  milk  to  make  a  soft 
dough.     Knead  lightly  on  floured  surface.     Use  according  to 
instructions  for  making  deep  dish  cobbler  pies  and  fried  fruit 
pies. 


Ginger  Bread 


2  cups  flour  1/2  cup  light  brown  sugar, 

1  teaspoon  baking  soda  packed 

1/4  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs,  beaten 

1  1/2  teaspoon  ginger  1/2  cup  molasses 

1/2  teaspoon  allspice  1  cup  buttermilk 

1/2  cup  shortening 


Sift  together  all  dry  ingredients.    Combine  eggs,  molasses, 
buttermilk  and  shortening;  gradually  add  flour  mixture;  beat 
well.    Pour  batter  into  a  greased  and  floured  9X9X2-inch  baking 
pan.     Bake  at  350  degrees  for  40  to  45  minutes. 


Classic  Pound  Cake 


1  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar 
5  egg  yolks 

2  cups  sifted  cake  flour 


1/2  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1/4  teaspoon  salt 
1  1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 
5  egg  whiteSf  stiffly  beaten 


Cream  butter;  add  sugar  gradually.    Cream  until  mixture  is  smooth 
and  well  blended.    Beat  egg  yolks  until  thick;  add  to  butter 
mixture.    Sift  together  flour,  nutmeg  and  salt;  add  to  batter 
about  2  tablespoonsf ul  at  a  time.    Beat  well  after  each  addition. 
Stir  in  vanilla.    Fold  in  egg  whits.    Pour  into  a  greased  and 
floured    9X5X3-inch  baking  pan.     Bake  at  325  degrees  for  1  hour. 


Sweet  Potato  Croquettes 


George  Washington  Carver  discovered  over  300  uses  for  peanuts  and 
many  uses  for  sweet  potatoes  and  soybeans.    Below  are  three 
recipes,  unaltered,  written  in  his  own  language. 


Take  two  cups  of  boiled,  mashed,  steamed  or  baked  sweet  potatoes; 
add  the  beaten  egg  and  season  to  taste,  stir  on  the  fire  until  the 
mass  separates  from  the  pan.    When  cold,  form  into  small 
croquetts,  roll  in  egg  and  then  in  bread  crumbs.    Deep  fat  fry  in 
hot  lard  to  an  amber  color.    Serve  on  napkins. 


Sweet  Potato  Muffins 


1  sweet  potato,  weighing  about 

3/4  pound 
1  large  tablespoon  of  butter 
Pinch  of  salt 


1/2  cup  milk 

2  well  beaten  eggs 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  cups  flour 


Boil  sweet  potatoes  until  thoroughly  done.    Nash  very  fine  and 
pass  through  a  colander  to  remove  any  lumps.    Add  butter  and  a 
little  salt  and  whip  well.    Now  add  1/2  cup  of  milk  and  egg,  sift 
in  baking  power  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  batter.    Bake  in 
muffin  or  gem  pans  in  400  degrees  oven  for  about  30  minutes. 


Peanut  Cake  with  Molasses 


2  cups  molasses 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  lard 

2  cups  hot  water 
4  cups  flour 


1  heaping  teapoon  soda 
1  egg  beaten 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1/2  teaspoon  cloves 
1/4  teaspoon  nutmeg 


1  pint  ground  peanut 


Mix  nuts,  spices  and  soda  with  flour,  which  should  be  measured 
generously.     Mix  the  molasses,  sugar,  lard  and  water;  sitr  in  the 
flour  and  add  the  beaten  egg  last.     Bake  in  shallow  dripping  pan 
and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  just  before  putting  in  oven. 
Suggested  temperature  350  degrees  for  1  hour. 


SEASONING  STOCK 

1.  Important  Information  about  Seasoning  Stock 

2.  Recipes 


Seasoning  Stock 


Seasoning  stock  is  made  from  a  combination  of  less  expensive  cuts 
of  meats,  bones,  chicken  wings  and  necks,  vegetables,  leftovers, 
carcasses  of  baked  fowl,  roast  bones,  roast  and  steak  drippings 
and  vegetable  waters. 

The  long  simmering  of  these  ingredients  extracts  all  the 
nutrients  that  would  ordinarily  be  discarded.     Wine  or  lemon  juice 
added  extracts  calcium  from  the  bones. 

When  cooked  stock  is  cooled  and  chilled  the  fat  congeales  on  the 
surface  and  is  removed. 

Seasoning  stock  added  to  frozen  dehydrated  and  canned  foods 
instead  of  water  improves  the  flavor  and  nutrition  a  hundred 
fold. 

Seasoning  stock  can  be  used  for  seasoning  vegetables  and  dried 
peas  and  beans.    This  will  call  for  less  salt  pork  and  cut  down 
on  saturated  fats  in  the  diet. 

Stock  can  be  made  in  quantity.  A  small  portion  may  be  stored  in 
the  refrigerator  for  immediate  use.  The  remaining  can  be  frozen 
in  ice  cube  trays  and  transferred  to  plastic  bags  for  indefinite 
storage  in  the  freezer. 

Basic  Seasoning  Stock 

1  1/2  pounds  meat  and  bone  scraps  2  small  white  turnips,  washed 

and  meat  leftovers  and  quartered 

1  1/2  pounds  chicken  necks  and  2  cloves  garlic,  peeled 
wings                                        1/2  bay  leaf 

3  beef  marrow  bones,  cut  in  2  tablespoons  salt 

3-inch  pieces  8  peppercorns 

1  veal  knuckle,  cracked  6  stalks  celery,  including 

1  medium  onion,  studded  with  leaves,  washed  and  cut  into 
4  cloves  2-inch  pieces 

2  large  leeks*,  washed  and  cut    4  sprigs  parsley 

cut  into  2-inch  pieces,  1  cut  red  or  dry  white  wine 

including  green  tops  Vegetable  water 

3  medium  carrots,  cut  in  Cold  water 
2-inch  pieces 

Place  all  ingredients  in  a  large  saucepan;  add  enough  cold  water 
to  cover.    Place  lid  on  saucepan  and  bring  to  boil  over  medium 
flame.    Reduce  heat  to  simmer  and  cook  slowly  4  1/2  hours.  Cool 
and  strain  stock  into  large  containes.     Re-frigerate  until  cold. 
Remove  all  fat  congealed  on  surface.     Refrigerate  for  immediate 
use  or  freeze  for  future  use.     Makes  about  2  quarts. 


*Leeks  or  small  green  onions  with  long  stems. 


Excellent  Recipe  Booklets  and  References 

1.  Kaiser,  Inc.  Yeangan,  Soul  Food  Cookery* 

Kaiser  Associates,  906  Grand  Avenue,  Kansas  City,  Missouri 
64106 

2.  Gaskin,  Ruth  L.,  A  Good  Heart  And  ^  Light  Hand 
Simon  and  Schuster  Publishing  Company. 

3.  Kaufman,  William  and  Cooper,  Sister  Mary  Ursula 

The  Art  of  Creole  Cookery.    Doubleday  and  Company.  Garden 
City,  New  York. 

4.  Princess,  Pamelas,  Soul  Food  Cookbook. 

The  New  American  Library,  P.O.  Box  2310,  Grand  Central 
Station,  New  York,  NY  10017 

5.  Jackson,   Mary  and  Wishart,  Lelia,  The  Soul  of  Good  Eating. 
Johnson  Publishing  Company,  Chicago,  111. 

6.  Bouser,   Pearl  and  Eckstein,  Joan,  A  Pinch  of  Soul.  Avon 
Books,  Heart  Corporation,  956  Eighth  Avenue,  New  York,  NY 
10019. 

7.  Country  Cookingr  Oxmoor  House,  Inc.  Birmingham,  Alabama 
35202. 

8.  Warren,  Mildred  Evans,  The  Art  of  Southern  Cooking. 
Doubleday  and  Company,  Inc.,  Garden  City,  New  York. 

9.  Rawling,  Margarie  Kinnan,  Cross  Creek  Cookery.  Charles 
Scribner  and  Sons,  New  York,  NY 

10.  Hibbins,  Shelia,  American  Regional  Cookery>  Little  Brown  and 
Company,  Boston,  Mass. 

11.  Dull,  Mrs.  S.R.  Southern  Cooking.    Grosset  &  Dunlap  New 
York,  NY 


