.p 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS, 


Tt::^ 


^++C 


Ytr 


■     Shelf  Mill 

UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 


CATHERINE   OWENS 


NEW  COOK   BOOK 


Part  I. 
CULTURE    AND    COOKING 

OR,  ART   IN   THE    KITCHEN 
Part  II. 

PRACTICAL    RECIPES 


/^ 


BY 


CATHERmE    OWEN 

(Mrs.  Nitsch) 

NOV  27  1885 


NEW   YORK 

CASSELL   &    COMPANY,   Limited 

739  &  741  BROADWAY 


/■ 


Copyright,  1885, 
By  O.  M.  Dunham. 


PRE88  OF   HUNTER   &    BEACH, 
NEW    YORK. 


PREFACE  TO  NEW  EDITION. 


Ik  the  first  part  of  this  book  I  endeavored  to 
help  inexperienced  housekeepers  in  the  difficulties 
thej  find  in  using  even  the  best  recipes  without 
some  knowledge  of  cooking.  In  response,  however, 
to  a  general  demand  for  more  recipes  in  ^^  Culture 
and  Cooking/^  I  have  prepared  a  second  part  to 
be  used  in  conjunction  with  it.  In  this  addition, 
I  have  tried,  not  so  much  to  give  a  great  many 
recipes,  as  to  give  the  best  I  know  of  each  kind,  all 
tested  by  myself,  and  to  give  them  so  minutely  that 
they  will  be  easily  practiced.  Where  there  are  many 
ways  of  cooking  one  thing  I  have  given  two  recipes, 
the  finest  I  know,  and  one  more  simple. 

I  have  tried  to  avoid  repeating  in  this  second  part 
of  the  book,  the  information  contained  in  the  first, 
except  in  the  one  or  two  instances  where  I  have 
thought  repetition  of  a  rule  may  have  the  effect  of 
successive  blows  of  the  hammer  on  a  nail — drive  it 
home. 

The  Author. 


ui 


PEEFACE. 


This  is  not  a  cookery  book.  It  makes  no  attempt  to 
replace  a  good  one  ;  it  is  rather  an  effort  to  fill  up  the 
gap  between  you  and  your  household  oracle,  whether 
she  be  one  of  those  exasperating  old  friends  who  mad- 
dened our  mother  with  their  vagueness,  or  the  newer 
and  better  lights  of  our  own  generation,  the  latest  and 
best  of  all  being  a  lady  as  well  known  for  her  novels  as 
for  her  works  on  domestic  economy — one  more  proof,  if 
proof  were  needed,  of  the  truth  I  endeavor  to  set  forth 
— if  somewhat  tediously  forgive  me — in  this  little  book  : 
that  cooking  and  cultivation  are  by  no  means  antagonis- 
tic. Who  does  not  remember  with  affectionate  admira- 
tion Charlotte  Bronte  taking  the  eyes  out  of  the  pota- 
toes stealthily,  for  fear  of  hurting  the  feelings  of  her 
purblind  old  servant ;  or  Margaret  Fuller  shelling  peas  ? 

The  chief  diflBculty,  I  fancy,  with  women  trying 
recipes  is,  that  they  fail  and  know  not  why  they  fail, 
and  so  become  discouraged,  and  this  is  where  I  hope 
to  step  in.  But  although  this  is  not  a  cookery  book, 
insomuch  as  it  does  not  deal  chiefly  with  recipes,  I  shall 
yet  give  a  few  ;  but  only  when  they  are,  or  I  believe 


vi  Preface. 

them  to  be,  better  than  those  in  general  use,  or  good 
things  little  known,  or  supposed  to  belong  to  the  do- 
main of  a  French  chef^  of  which  I  have  introduced  a 
good  many.  Should  I  succeed  in  making  things  that 
were  obscure  before  clear  to  a  few  women,  I  shall  be  as 
proud  as  was  Mme.  de  Genlis  when  she  boasts  in  her 
Memoirs  that  she  has  taught  six  new  dishes  to  a  Ger- 
man housewife.  Six  new  dishes  !  When  Brillat-Sava- 
rin  says  :  "  He  who  has  invented  one  new  dish  has 
done  more  for  the  pleasure  of  mankind  than  he  who  has 
discovered  a  star/^ 


CONTENTS. 
PAET   I. 


CHAPTER  L 

PAGE 
PRELIMmARY  REMARKS 1 

CHAPTER  II. 

ON  BREAD. 

Sponge  for  bread. — One  cause  of  failure. — Why  home-made 
bread  often  has  a  hard  crust. — On  baking. — Ovens. — More 
reasons  why  bread  may  fail  to  be  good. — Light  rolls. — 
Rusks. —  Kreuznach  horns. — Kringles. — Brioche  (Paris 
Jockey  Club  recipe). — SoufSee  bread. — A  novelty 12 

CHAPTER  III. 

PASTRY. 

Why  you  fail  in  making  good  puff  paste. — How  to  succeed. — 
How  to  handle  it. — To  put  fruit  pies  together  so  that  the 
syrup  does  not  boil  out. — Ornamenting  fruit  pies. — Risso- 
lettes. — Pastry  tablets. — Frangipane  tartlets. — Rules  for 
ascertaining  the  heat  of  your  oven 22 

CHAPTER  IV. 

WHAT  TO  HAVE  IN  YOUR   STORE-ROOM. 

Mushroom  powder  (recipe). — Stock  to  keep,  or  glaze  (recipe). 
— Uses  of  glaze. — Glazing  meats,  hams,  tongues,  etc. — 
Maitre  d'hotel  butter  (recipe). — Uses  of  it. — Ravigotte  or 
Montpellier    butter    (recipe). — Uses  of  it. — Roux. — Blanc 

(recipes).— Uses  of  both.— Brown  flour,  its  uses 28 

vii 


viii  Contents. 

CHAPTER  V. 

LUNCHEONS. 

PAGE 

Remarks  on  what  to  have  for  luncheons.— English  meat  pies. — 
Windsor  pie. — Yeal  and  ham  pie. — Chicken  pie. — Raised 
pork  pie. — (Recipes). — Ornamenting  meat  pies. — Galan- 
tine (recipe). — Fish  in  jelly. — Jellied  oysters. — A  new 
mayonnaise  luncheon  for  small  families. — Potted  meats 
(recipes). — Anchovy  butter. — A  new  omelet.  —  Potato 
snow. — Lyonnaise  potatoes 35 

CHAPTER  VI. 

A  CHAPTER  ON  GENERAL   MANAGEMENT   IN   VERY   SMALL  FAMILIES. 

How  to  have  littJe  dinners. — Hints  for  bills  of  fare,  etc. — Filet 
de  boeuf  Chateaubriand  (recipe). — What  to  do  with  the 
odds  and  ends. — Various  recipes. — Salads. — Recipes 47 


CHAPTER  VII. 

FRYING. 

Why  you  fail. — Panure  or  bread-crumbs,  to  prepare. — How  to 
prepare  flounders  as  filets  de  sole. — Fried  oysters. — To 
clarify  dripping  for  frying.— Remarks. — Pate  a  frire  a  la 
Careme. — Same,  a  la  Proven^ale. — Broiling 55 


CHAPTER  VIII. 
Roasting 62 

CHAPTER  IX. 

BOILING   AND   SOUPS. 

Boiling  meat. — Rules  for  knowing  exactly  the  degrees  of  boil- 
ing.— Vegetables. — Remarks  on  making  soup. — To  clear 
soup. — Why  it  is  not  clear. — Coloring  pot-au-fcu.— Con- 
somme.— Crema  de  calm,  a  little  known  soup. — Recipes. .     65 


Contents.  ix 

CHAPTER  X. 

SAUCES. 

PAGE 

Remarks  on    making  and  flavoring  sauces. — ^Espagnole  or 
brown  sauce  as  it  should  be.— How  to  make  fine  white 


sauce. 


70 


CHAPTER  XI. 

WARMING  OVER. 

Remarks. — Salmi  of  cold  meats. — Boeuf  a  la  jardiniere. — 
Boeuf  au  gratin. — Pseudo-beefsteak. — Cutlets  a  la  jar- 
diniere.— Cromesquis  of  lamb. — Sauce  piquant. — Miroton 
of  beef. — Simple  way  of  warming  a  joint. — Breakfast  dish. 
— Stuffed  beef. — Beef  olives. — Chops  a  la  poulette. — 
Devils. —Mephistophelian  sauce. — Fritadella,  twenty  re- 
cipes in  one 72 

CHAPTER  XII. 

ON  FRIANDISES. 

Biscuit  glacee  at  home  (recipes). — Iced  soufles  (recipes). — Baba 
and  syrups  for  it  (recipe). — Savarin  and  syrup  (recipes). — 
Bouchees  de  dames. — How  to  make  Curagoa.— Maraschino. 
— Noyeau 84 

CHAPTER  XIII. 

FRENCH  CANDIES  AT  HOME. 

How  to  make  them. — Fondants. — Yanilla. — Almond  cream. — 
Walnut  cream. — Tutti  frutti. — Various  candies  dipped 
in  cream. — Chocolate  creams. — Foudant  panache. — Punch 
drops 91 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

FOR  PEOPLE  OF  VERY  SMALL  MEANS. 

Remarks. — ^What  may  be  made  of  a  soup  bone. — Several  very 
economical  dishes. — Pot  roasts. — Dishes  requiring  no 
meat 96 


X  Contents. 

CHAPTER  XY. 

PAGE 
A  FEW  THINGS  IT  IS  WELL  TO  REMEMBER 105 

CHAPTER  XYI. 

On  some  TABLE  PREJUDICES 108 

CHAPTER  XVII. 

A  CHAPTER  OF  ODDS  AND  ENDS, 

Altering  recipes.— How  to  have  tarragon,  burnet,  etc. — Re- 
marks on  obtaining  ingredients  not  in  common  use. — An 
impromptu  salamander. — Larding  needle. — How  to  have 
parsley  fresh  all  winter  without  expense. — On  having 
kitchen  conveniences. — Anecdote  related  by  Jules  Gouffee. 
—On  servants  in  America. — A  little  advice  by  way  of 
valedictory Ill 


CONTENTS. 

PART   II. 

CHAPTER  XVm.  PAGE 

Breakfast  breads 119 

CHAPTER  XIX. 
Omelettes 124 

CHAPTER  XX. 
General  instructions 126 

CHAPTER  XXI. 
Forcemeats — STUPPiNa 131 

CHAPTER  XXII. 
Vegetables 134 

CHAPTER  XXHI. 
Soups 140 

CHAPTER  XXI Y. 
Fish 150 

CHAPTER  XXV. 
Entrees 157 

CHAPTER  XXVI. 
Roasts 178 

xi 


xii  Contents, 

CHAPTER  XXYII.  pagb 

Poultry 184 

CHAPTER  XXYIII. 
Game 191 

CHAPTER  XXIX. 
Salads 196 

CHAPTER  XXX. 
Boiled  puddings  op  all  kinds 201 

CHAPTER  XXXI. 
Pees,  tarts  and  sweet  omelettes 208 

CHAPTER  XXXII. 
Dishes  for  cheese  course,  or  supper 216 

CHAPTER  XXXIII. 
Sauces,  sayory  and  sweet « • ,  e . .  219 

CHAPTER  XXXIY. 
Cakes 233 


CATHERINE    OWEN'S 

NEW    COOK    BOOK 


PAET  L 

CULTURE  AND  COOKHSTGl. 


CHAPTER  I. 

A   FEW   PRELIMIN^ARY   REMARKS. 

Alexa:n"dre  Dumas,  pere,  after  writing  five  hundred 
noyels,  says,  "  I  wish  to  close  my  literary  career  with  a 
book  on  cooking.'' 

And  in  the  hundred  pages  or  so  of  preface — or  perhaps 
overture  would  be  the  better  word,  since  in  it  a  group 
of  literary  men,  while  contributing  recondite  recipes, 
flourish  trumpets  in  every  key— to  his  huge  volume  he 
says,  ^'  I  wish  to  be  read  by  people  of  the  world,  and 
practiced  by  people  of  the  art "  {gens  de  Vart)  ;  and  al- 
though /  wish,  like  every  one  who  writes,  to  be  read  by 
all  the  world,  I  wish  to  aid  the  practice,  not  of  the  pro- 
fessors of  the  culinary  art,  but  those  whose  aspirations 
point  to  an  enjoyment  of  the  good  things  of  life,  but 
whose  means  of  attaining  them  are  limited. 

There  is  a  great  deal  of  talk  just  now  about  cooking ; 
in  a  lesser  degree  it  takes  its  place  as  a  popular  topic 
with  ceramics,  modern  antiques,  and  household  art.  The 
fact  of  it  being  in  a  mild  way  fashionable  may  do  a  lit- 
tle good  to  the  eating  world  in  general.  And  it  may 
make  it  more  easy  to  convince  young  women  of  refined 
1  1 


2  Culture  and  Cooking. 

proclivities  that  the  art  of  cooking  is  not  beneath  their 
attention^  to  know  that  the  Queen  of  England's  daugh- 
ters— and  of  course  the  cream  of  the  London  fair — have 
attended  the  lectures  on  the  subject  delivered  at  South 
Kensington,  and  that  a  young  lady  of  rank,  Sir  James 
Coles's  daughter,  has  been  recording  angel  to  the  asso- 
ciation, is  in  fact  the  E.  C.  C.  who  edits  the  ^^  Official 
Handbook  of  Cookery." 

But,  notwithstanding  all  that  has  been  done  by  South 
Kensington  lectures  in  London  and  Miss  Corson's  Cook- 
ing School  in  New  York  to  popularize  the  culinary  art, 
one  may  go  into  a  dozen  houses,  and  find  the  ladies  of 
the  family  with  sticky  fingers,  scissors,  and  gum  pot, 
busily  porcelainizing  clay  jars,  and  not  find  one  where 
they  are  as  zealously  trying  to  work  out  the  problems  of 
the  "  Official  Handbook  of  Cookery." 

I  have  nothing  to  say  against  the  artistic  distractions 
of  the  day.  Anything  that  will  induce  love  of  the  beau- 
tiful, and  remove  from  us  the  possibility  of  a  return  to 
the  horrors  of  hair-cloth  andbrocatel  and  crochet  tidies, 
will  be  a  stride  in  the  right  direction.  But  what  I  do 
protest  against,  is  the  fact,  that  the  same  refined  girls 
and  matrons,  who  so  love  to  adorn  their  houses  that  they 
will  spend  hours  improving  a  pickle  jar,  mediaevalizing 
their  furniture,  or  decorating  the  dinner  service,  will 
shirk  everything  that  pertains  to  the  preparation  of  food 
as  dirty,  disagreeable  drudgery,  and  sit  down  to  a  com- 
monplace, ill-prepared  meal,  served  on  tliose  artistic 
plates,  as  complacently  as  if  dainty  food  were  not  a  re- 
finement ;  as  if  heavy  rolls  and  poor  bread,  burnt  or 
greasy  steak,  and  wilted  potatoes  did  not  smack  of  the 
shanty,  just  as  loudly  as  coarse  crockery  or  rag  carpet — 
indeed  far  more  so ;  the  carpet  and  crockery  may  be  due 


A  Few  Preliminary  Remarks.  3 

to  poyerty,  but  a  dainty  meal  or  its  reverse  will  speak 
volumes  for  innate  refinement  or  its  lack  in  the  woman 
who  serves  it.  You  see  by  my  speaking  of  rag  carpets 
and  dainty  meals  in  one  breath,  that  I  do  not  consider 
good  things  to  be  the  privilege  of  the  rich  alone. 

There  are  a  great  many  dainty  things  the  household 
of  small  or  moderate  means  can  have  just  as  easily  as 
the  most  wealthy.  Beautiful  bread — light,  white,  crisp 
— costs  no  more  than  the  tough,  thick-crusted  boulder, 
with  cavities  like  eye-sockets,  that  one  so  frequently 
meets  with  as  home-made  bread.     As  Hood  says: 

"  Who  has  not  met  with  home-made  bread, 
A  heavy  compound  of  putty  and  lead  ?" 

Delicious  coffee  is  only  a  matter  of  care,  not  expense — 
and  indeed  in  America  the  cause  of  poor  food,  even  in  a 
boarding-house,  is  seldom  in  the  qaality  of  the  articles 
so  much  as  in  the  preparation  and  selection  of  them — 
yet  an  epicure  can  breakfast  well  with  fine  bread  and 
butter  and  good  coffee.  And  this  leads  me  to  another 
thing  :  many  people  think  that  to  give  too  much  atten- 
tion to  food  shows  gluttony.  I  have  heard  a  lady  say 
with  a  tone  of  virtuous  rebuke,  when  the  conversation 
turned  from  fashions  to  cooking,  ''  I  give  very  little  time 
to  cooking,  we  eat  to  live  only  " — which  is  exactly  what 
an  animal  does.  Eating  to  live  is  mere  feeding.  Brillat- 
Savarin,  an  abstemious  eater  himself,  among  other  witty 
things  on  the  same  topic  says,  "  V animal  se  repait, 
Thomme  mange,  Vhomme  d'^ esprit  seul  sait  manger, ^^ 

Nine  people  out  of  ten,  when  they  call  a  man  an 
epicure,  mean  it  as  a  sort  of  reproach,  a  man  who  is 
averse  to  every-day  food,  one  whom  plain  fare  would 
fail  to  satisfy  ;  but  Grimod  de  la  Reyniere,  the  most  eel- 


4  Culture  and  Cooking, 

ebrated  gourmet  of  his  day,  author  of  ''  Almanach  des 
Gourmands, "  and  authority  on  all  matters  culinary  of  the 
last  century,  said,  ^^  A  true  epicure  can  dine  well  on  one 
dish,  provided  it  is  excellent  of  its  kind."  Excellent, 
that  is  it.  A  little  care  will  generally  secure  to  us  the 
refinement  of  having  only  on  the  table  what  is  excellent 
of  its  kind.  If  it  is  but  potatoes  and  salt,  let  the  salt  be 
ground  fine,  and  the  potatoes  white  and  mealy.  Thack- 
eray says,  an  epicure  is  one  who  never  tires  of  brown 
bread  and  fresh  butter,  and  in  this  sense  every  New 
Yorker  who  has  his  rolls  from  the  Brevoort  House,  and 
uses  Darlington  butter,  is  an  epicure.  There  seems  to 
me,  more  mere  animalism  in  wading  through  a  long 
bill  of  fare,  eating  three  or  four  indifferently  cooked 
vegetables,  fish,  meat,  poultry,  each  second-rate  in  qual- 
ity, or  made  so  by  bad  cooking,  and  declaring  that  you 
have  dined  well,  and  are  easy  to  please,  than  there  is  in 
taking  pains  to  have  a  perfectly  broiled  chop,  a  fine  po- 
tato, and  a  salad,  on  which  any  true  epicure  could  dine 
well,  while  on  the  former  fare  he  would  leave  the  table 
hungry. 

Spenser  points  a  moral  for  me  when  he  says,  speaking 
of  the  Irish  in  1580,  "  That  wherever  they  found  a  plot 
of  shamrocks  or  water-cresses  they  had  a  feast ;"  but  there 
were  gourmets  even  among  them,  for  ^^some  gobbled 
the  green  food  as  it  came,  and  some  picked  the  faultless 
stalks,  and  looked  for  the  bloom  on  the  leaf." 

Thus  it  is,  when  I  speak  of  ''good  living,"  I  do  not 
mean  expensive  living  or  high  living,  but  living  so  that 
the  table  may  be  as  elegant  as  the  dishes  on  which  it  is 
served. 

I  believe  there  exists  a  feeling,  not  of  ten  expressed  per- 
haps, but  prevalent  among  young  people,  that  for  a  lady 


A  Few  Preliminary  Remarks.  5 

to  cook  with  her  own  hands  is  vulgar;  to  loye  to  do  it 
shows  that  she  is  of  low  intellectual  caliber,  a  sort  of 
drawing-room  Bridget.  When  or  how  this  idea  arose  it 
would  be  diflftcult  to  say,  for  in  the  middle  ages  cooks 
were  often  noble  ;  a  Montmorency  was  chef  de  cuisine  to 
Philip  of  Valois ;  Montesquieu  descended,  and  was  not 
ashamed  of  his  descent,  from  the  second  cook  of  the 
Connetable  de  Bourbon,  who  ennobled  him.  And  from 
Lord  Bacon,  ^^  brightest,  greatest,  meanest  of  mankind,^' 
who  took,  it  is  said,  great  interest  in  cooking,  to  Talley- 
rand, the  Machiavelli  of  France,  who  spent  an  hour  eyery 
day  with  his  cook,  we  find  great  men  delighting  in  the 
art  as  a  recreation. 

It  is  surprising  that  such  an  essentially  artistic  people 
as  Americans  should  so  neglect  an  art  which  a  great 
French  writer  calls  the  ''  scie7ice  mignonne  of  all  dis- 
tinguished men  of  the  world."  Napoleon  the  Great  so 
fully  recognized  the  social  yalue  of  keeping  a  good  table 
that,  although  no  gourmet  himself,  he  wished  all  his 
chief  functionaries  to  be  so.  ^'^Keep  a  good  table,"  he 
told  them;  ^^if  you  get  into  debt  for  it  I  will  pay." 
And  later,  one  of  his  most  deyoted  adherents,  the  Mar- 
quis de  Cussy,  out  of  fayor  with  Louis  XVIII.  on 
account  of  that  yery  deyotion,  found  his  reputation  as 
a  gourmet  very  seryiceable  to  him.  A  friend  applied 
for  a  place  at  court  for  him,  which  Louis  refused,  till  he 
heard  that  M.  de  Cussy  had  inyented  the  mixture  of 
cream,  strawberries,  and  champagne,  when  he  granted 
the  petition  at  once.  ISTor  is  this  a  solitary  instance  in 
history  where  culinary  skill  has  been  a  passport  to  for- 
tune to  its  possessor.  Sayarin  relates  that  the  Cheya- 
lier  d'Aubigny,  exiled  from  France,  was  in  London,  in 
utter  poverty,  notwithstanding  which,  by  chance,  he  was 


6  Culture  and  Cooking, 

invited  to  dine  at  a  tayern  frequented  by  the  young  bucks 
of  that  day. 

After  he  had  finished  his  dinner^  a  party  of  young 
gentlemen^  who  had  been  observing  him  from  their  table, 
sent  one  of  their  number  with  many  apologies  and  ex- 
cuses to  beg  of  him,  as  a  son  of  a  nation  renowned  for 
their  salads,  to  be  kind  enough  to  mix  theirs  for  them. 
He  complied,  and  while  occupied  in  making  the  salad, 
told  them  frankly  his  story,  and  did  not  hide  his  pov- 
erty. One  of  the  gentlemen,  as  they  parted,  slipped  a 
five-pound  note  into  his  hand,  and  his  need  of  it  was  so 
great  that  he  did  not  obey  the  promj)ting  of  his  pride, 
but  accepted  it. 

A  few  days  later  he  was  sent  for  to  a  great  house,  and 
learned  on  his  arrival  that  the  young  gentleman  he  had 
obliged  at  the  tavern  had  spoken  so  highly  of  his  salad 
that  they  begged  him  to  do  the  same  thing  again.  A 
very  handsome  sum  was  tendered  him  on  his  departure, 
and  afterwards  he  had  frequent  calls  on  his  skill,  until 
it  became  the  fashion  to  have  salads  prepared  by  d'Au- 
bigny,  who  became  a  well-known  character  in  London, 
and  was  called  "  the  fashionaile  salad-maker P  In  a  few 
years  he  amassed  a  large  fortune  by  this  means,  and 
was  in  such  request  that  his  carriage  would  drive  from 
house  to  house,  carrying  him  and  his  various  condiments 
— for  he  took  with  him  everything  that  could  give 
variety  to  his  concoctions — from  one  place,  where  his 
services  were  needed,  to  another. 

The  contempt  for  this  art  of  cooking  is  confined  to  this 
country,  and  to  the  lower  middle  classes  in  England.  By 
the  ^Hower  middle  classes"  I  mean,  what  Carlyle  terms 
thegigocracy— I.e.,  people  sufficiently  well-to-do  to  keep  a 
gig  or  phaeton — well-to-do  tradesmen,  small  professional 


A  Few  Preliminary  Remarks.  7 

men,  the  class  whose  womenkind  would  call  themselves 
*^  genteel,"  and  many  absurd  stories  are  told  of  the 
determined  ignorance  and  pretense  of  these  would-be 
ladies.  But  in  no  class  above  this  is  a  knowledge  of 
cooking  a  thing  to  be  ashamed  of ;  in  England,  indeed, 
so  far  from  that  being  the  case,  indifference  to  the  sub- 
ject, or  lack  of  understanding  and  taste  for  certain  dishes 
is  looked  upon  as  a  sort  of  proof  of  want  of  breeding. 
Not  to  like  curry,  macaroni,  or  parmesan,  pate  de  fois 
gras,  mushrooms,  and  such  like,  is  a  sign  that  you  have 
not  been  all  your  life  accustomed  to  good  living.  Mr. 
Hardy,  in  his  ''  Pair  of  Blue  Eyes,"  cleverly  hits  this 
prejudice  when  he  makes  Mr.  Swancourt  say,  *^  I  knew 
the  fellow  wasn't  a  gentleman;  he  had  no  acquired  tastes, 
never  took  Worcestershire  sauce." 

Abroad  many  women  of  high  rank  and  culture  de- 
vote a  good  deal  of  time  to  a  thorough  understanding 
of  the  subject.  We  have  a  lady  of  the  '^  lordly  line  of 
proud  St.  Clair"  writing  for  us  ^^ Dainty  Dishes,"  and 
doing  it  with  a  zest  that  shows  she  enjoys  her  work, 
although  she  does  once  in  a  while  forget  something  she 
ought  to  have  mentioned,  and  later  still  we  have  Miss 
Eose  Coles  writing  the  ^^  Official  Handbook  of  Cookery." 

But  it  is  in  graceful,  refined  France  that  cookery  is 
and  has  been,  a  pet  art.  Any  bill  of  fare  or  French 
cookery  book  will  betray  to  a  thoughtful  reader  the  at- 
tention given  to  the  subject  by  the  wittiest,  gayest,  and 
most  beautiful  women,  and  the  greatest  men.  The  high- 
sounding  names  attached  to  French  standard  dishes  are 
no  mere  caprice  or  homage  of  a  French  cook  to  the  great  in 
the  land,  but  actually  point  out  their  inventor.  Thus 
Bechamel  was  invented  by  the  Marquis  de  Bechamel,  as 
a  sauce  for  codfish  ;   while  Filets  de   Lapereau  a  la 


8  Culture  and  Cooking. 

Berry  were  inyented  by  the  Duchess  de  Berry^  daughter 
of  the  regent  Orleans,  who  himself  invented  Pain  a  la 
(T  Orleans,  while  to  Eichelieu  we  are  indebted  for  hun- 
dreds of  dishes  besides  the  renowned  mayonnaise. 

Oailles  a  la  Mirepois,  Chartreuse  a  la  Maticonseil, 
Poiilets  a  la  Villeroy,  betray  the  tastes  of  the  three  great 
ladies  whose  name  they  bear. 

But  not  in  courts  alone  has  the  art  had  its  devotees. 
Almost  every  great  name  in  French  literature  brings  to 
mind  something  its  owner  said  or  did  about  cooking. 
Dumas,  who  was  a  prince  of  cooks,  and  of  whom  it  is 
related  that  in  1860,  when  living  atVarennes,  St.  Maur, 
dividing  his  time,  as  usual,  between  cooking  and  litera- 
ture {LorsquHl  ne  faisait  pas  saiiter  un  roman,  il 
faisait  sauter  des  petits  oignons),  on  Mountjoye,  a 
young  artist  friend  and  neighbor,  going  to  see  him,  he 
cooked  dinner  for  him.  Going  into  the  poultry  yard, 
after  donning  a  white  apron,  he  wrung  the  neck  of  a 
chicken;  then  to  the  kitchen  garden  for  vegetables, 
which  he  peeled  and  washed  himself  ;  lit  the  fire,  got 
butter  and  flour  ready,  put  on  his  saucepans,  then  cooked, 
stirred,  tasted,  seasoned  until  dinner  time.  Then  he 
entered  in  triumph  and  announced,  "  Le  diner  est 
servi,^^  For  six  months  he  passed  three  or  four  days  a 
week  cooking  for  Mountjoye.  This  novelist's  book  says, 
in  connection  with  the  fact  that  great  cooks  in  France 
have  been  men  of  literary  culture,  and  literary  men  often 
fine  cooks,  ^^  It  is  not  surprising  that  literary  men  liave 
always  formed  the  entourage  of  a  great  chef,  for,  to 
appreciate  thoroughly  all  there  is  in  the  culinary  art, 
none  are  so  well  able  as  men  of  letters;  accustomed  as 
they  are  to  all  refinements,  they  can  appreciate  bettor 
than  others  those  of  the  table,"  thus  paying  himself  and 


A  Few  Preliminary  Remarks.  g 

confreres  a  delicate  little  compliment  at  the  expense  of 
the  non-literary  world;  but,  notwithstanding  the  naiye 
self-glorification,  he  states  a  fact  that  helps  to  point  my 
moral,  that  indifference  to  cooking  does  not  indicate  re- 
finement, intellect,  or  social  pre-eminence. 

Brillat-Savarin,  grave  judge  as  he  was,  and  abstemi- 
ous eater,  yet  has  written  the  book  of  books  on  the  art 
of  eating.  It  was  he  who  said,  ^'  Tell  me  what  you  eat, 
I  will  tell  you  what  you  are,'^  as  pregnant  with  truth  as 
the  better-known  proverb  it  paraphrases. 

Malherbe  loved  to  watch  his  cook  at  work.  I  think  it 
was  he  who  said,  ^^  A  coarse-minded  man  could  never  be 
a  cook,"  and  Charles  Baudelaire,  the  Poe  of  France,  takes 
a  poet's  view  of  our  daily  wants,  when  he  says,  '^  that  an 
ideal  cook  must  have  a  great  deal  of  the  poet's  nature, 
combining  something  of  the  voluptuary  with  the  man 
of  science  learned  in  the  chemical  principles  of  matter;" 
although  he  goes  further  than  we  care  to  follow  when 
he  says,  that  the  question  of  sauces  and  seasoning  re- 
quires ^^  a  chapter  as  grave  as  Si  femUeto7i  de  science.'^ 

It  has  been  said  by  foreigners  that  Americans  care 
nothing  for  the  refinements  of  the  table,  but  I  think 
they  do  care.  I  have  known  many  a  woman  in  com- 
fortable circumstances  long  to  have  a  good  table,  many 
a  man  aspire  to  better  things,  and  if  he  could  only  get 
them  at  home  would  pay  any  money.  But  the  getting 
them  at  home  is  the  difficulty ;  on  a  table  covered  with 
exquisite  linen,  glass,  and  silver,  whose  presiding  queen 
is  more  likely  than  not  a  type  of  the  American  lady — 
graceful,  refined,  and  witty — on  such  a  table,  with  such 
surroundings,  will  come  the  plentiful,  coarse,  common- 
place dinner. 

The  chief  reason  for  this  is  lack  of  knowledge  on  the 
1* 


lO  Culture  and  Cooking, 

part  of  onr  ladies:  know  how  to  do  a  thing  yourself,  and 
yon  will  get  it  well  done  by  others.  But  how  are  many 
of  them  to  know  ?  The  daughters  of  the  wealthy  in 
this  country  often  marry  struggling  men,  and  they  know 
less  about  domestic  economy  than  ladies  of  the  higher 
ranks  abroad;  not  because  English  or  French  ladies  take 
more  part  in  housekeeping,  but  because  they  are  at  home 
all  their  liyes.  Ladies  of  the  highest  rank  never  go  to  a 
boarding  or  any  other  school,  and  these  are  the  women 
who,  with  some  few  exceptions,  know  best  how  things 
should  be  done.  They  are  at  home  listening  to  criti- 
cisms from  papa,  who  is  an  epicure  perhaps,  on  the 
shortcomings  of  his  own  table,  or  his  neighbors';  from 
mamma,  as  to  what  the  soup  lacks,  why  cook  is  not  a 
^'cordon  Ueu,^^  etc.,  while  our  girls  are  at  school,  far 
away  from  domestic  comments,  deep  in  the  agonies  of 
algebra  perhaps  ;  and  directly  they  leave  school,  in  many 
cases  they  marry.  As  a  preparation  for  the  state  of 
matrimony  most  of  them  learn  how  to  make  cake  and 
preserves,  and  the  very  excellence  of  their  attainments 
in  that  way  proves  how  easy  it  would  be  for  them,  with 
their  dainty  fingers  and  good  taste,  to  far  excel  their  Eu- 
ropean cousins  in  that  art  which  a  French  writer  says  is 
based  on  ^^  reason,  health,  common  sense,  and  sound  taste." 
Here  let  me  say,  I  do  not  by  any  means  advocate  a 
woman,  who  can  afford  to  pay  a  first-rate  cook,  avoiding 
the  expense  by  cooking  herself  ;  on  the  contrary,  I  think 
no  woman  is  justified  in  doing  work  herself  that  she  has 
the  means  given  her  to  get  done  by  employing  others. 
I  have  no  praise  for  the  economical  woman,  who,  from 
a  desire  to  save,  does  her  own  work  loithout  necessity  for 
economy.  It  is  not  her  work;  the  moment  she  can  afford 
to  employ  others  it  is  the  work  of  some  less  fortunate  per- 


A  Few  Preliminary  Remarks.  II 

son.  But  in  this  country^  it  often  happens  that  a  good 
cook  is  not  to  be  found  for  money,  although  the  raw  ma- 
terial of  which  one  might  be  made  is  much  oftener  at 
hand.  And  if  ladies  would  only  practice  the  culinary  art 
with  as  much,  nay,  half  as  much  assiduity  as  they  give  to 
a  new  pattern  in  crochet ;  devote  as  much  time  to  attain- 
ing perfection  in  one  dish  or  article  of  food,  be  it  per- 
fect bread,  or  some  French  dish  which  father,  brother, 
or  husband  goes  to  Delmonico's  to  enjoy,  as  they  do  to 
the  crochet  tidies  or  embroidered  rugs  with  which  they 
decorate  their  drawing-rooms,  they  could  then  take  the 
material,  in  the  shape  of  any  ambitious  girl  they  may 
meet  with,  and  make  her  a  fine  cook.  In  the  time  they 
take  to  make  a  dozen  tidies,  they  would  have  a  dozen 
dishes  at  their  fingers'  ends;  and  let  me  tell  you,  the 
woman  who  can  cook  a  dozen  things,  outside  of  pre- 
serves, in  a  'perfect  manner  is  a  rarity  here,  and  a  good 
cook  anywhere,  for,  by  the  time  the  dozen  are  accom- 
plished, she  will  have  learned  so  much  of  the  art  of  cook- 
ing that  all  else  will  come  easy.  One  good  soup,  bouil- 
lon, and  you  have  the  foundation  of  all  others ;  two 
good  sauces,  white  sauce  and  brown,  ^'les  sauces  meres  '^ 
as  the  French  call  them  (mothers  of  all  other  sauces), 
and  all  others  are  matters  of  detail.  Learn  to  make  one 
kind  of  roll  perfectly,  as  light,  plump,  and  crisp  as 
Delmonico's,  and  all  varieties  are  at  your  fingers'  ends; 
you  can  have  kringles,  Vienna  rolls,  Kreuznach  horns, 
Yorkshire  tea  cakes,  English  Sally  Lunns  and  Bath 
buns ;  all  are  then  as  easy  to  make  as  common  soda  bis- 
cuit. In  fact,  in  cooking,  as  in  many  other  things,  '^  ce 
rCest  que  le  premier  pas  que  coute;  "  failures  are  almost 
certain  at  the  beginning,  but  a  failure  is  often  a  step 
toward  success — if  we  only  know  the  reason  of  the  failure. 


CHAPTEK  11. 

0]Sr  BEEAD. 

Of  all  articles  of  food^  bread  is  perhaps  the  one  about 
which  most  has  been  written,  most  instruction  given, 
and  most  failures  made.  Yet  what  adds  more  to  the 
elegance  of  a  table  than  exquisite  bread  or  breads,  and 
— ^unless  you  live  in  a  large  city  and  depend  on  the  baker 
— what  so  rare  ?  A  lady  who  is  very  proud  of  her  table, 
and  justly  so,  said  to  me  quite  lately,  ''  I  cannot  under- 
stand how  it  is  we  never  have  really  fine  home-made 
bread.  I  have  tried  many  recipes,  following  them 
closely,  and  I  can't  achieve  anything  but  a  common- 
place loaf  with  a  thick,  hard  crust ;  and  as  for  rolls, 
they  are  my  despair.  I  have  wasted  eggs,  butter,  and 
patience  so  often  that  I  have  determined  to  give  them 
up,  but  a  fine  loaf  I  will  try  for." 

^^  And  when  you  achieve  the  fine  loaf,  you  may  revel 
in  home-made  rolls, "  I  answered. 

And  so  I  advise  every  one  first  to  make  perfect  bread, 
light,  white,  crisp,  and  thin-crusted,  that  rarest  thing 
in  home-made  bread. 

I  have  read  over  many  recipes  for  bread,  and  am  con- 
vinced that  when  the  time  allowed  for  rising  is  specified, 
it  is  invariably  too  short.  One  standard  book  directs 
you  to  leave  your  sponge  two  hours,  and  the  bread  when 
made  up  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  This  recipe  strictly 
followed  must  result  in  heavy,  tough  bread.     As  bread 

12 


On  Bread,  13 

is  so  important,  and  so  many  fail,  I  will  give  my  own 
method  from  beginning  to  end ;  not  that  there  are  not 
numberless  good  recipes,  but  simply  because  they  fre- 
quently need  adapting  to  circumstances,  and  altering  a 
recipe  is  one  of  the  things  a  tyro  fears  to  do. 

I  make  a  sponge  over  night,  using  a  dried  yeast-cake 
soaked  in  a  pint  of  warm  water,  to  which  I  add  a  spoon- 
ful of  salt,  and,  if  the  weather  is  warm,  as  much  soda  as 
will  lie  on  a  dime  ;  make  this  into  a  stiff  batter  with 
flour— it  may  take  a  quart  or  less,  flour  varies  so  much, 
to  give  a  rule  is  impossible  ;  but  if,  after  standing,  the 
sponge  has  a  watery  appearance,  make  it  thicker  by 
sprinkling  in  more  flour,  beat  hard  a  few  minutes,  and 
coyer  with  a  cloth — in  winter  keep  a  piece  of  thick  flan- 
nel for  the  purpose,  as  a  chill  is  fatal  to  your  sponge— 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  free  from  draughts. 

The  next  morning,  when  the  sponge  is  quite  light- 
that  is  to  say,  at  least  twice  the  bulk  it  was,  and  like  a 
honeycomb — take  two  quarts  of  flour,  more  or  less,  as 
you  require,  but  I  recommend  at  first  a  small  baking, 
and  this  will  make  three  small  loaves  ;  in  winter,  flour 
should  be  dried  and  warmed ;  put  it  in  your  mixing 
bowl,  and  turn  the  sponge  into  a  hole  in  the  center. 
Have  ready  some  water,  rather  more  than  lukewarm,  but 
not  liot.  Add  it  gradually,  stirring  your  flour  into  the 
sponge  at  the  same  time.  The  great  fault  in  making 
bread  is  getting  the  dough  too  stiff ;  it  should  be  as  soft 
as  possible,  without  being  at  all  sticky  or  wet.  Now 
knead  it  with  both  hands  from  all  sides  into  the  center  ; 
keep  this  motion,  occasionally  dipping  your  hands  into 
the  flour  if  the  dough  sticks,  but  do  not  add  more  flour 
unless  the  paste  sticks  very  much ;  if  you  have  the  right 
consistency  it  will  be  a  smooth  mass,  very  soft  to  the 


14  Culture  and  Cooking. 

touch,  yet  not  sticky,  but  this  may  not  be  attained  at  a 
first  mixing  without  adding  flour  by  degrees.  When 
you  have  kneaded  the  dough  until  it  leaves  the  bowl  all 
round,  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  it  is  well 
risen,  feels  very  soft  and  warm  to  the  touch,  and  is  twice  its 
bulk,  knead  it  once  more  thoroughly,  then  put  it  in  tins 
either  floured,  and  the  flour  not  adhering  shaken  out,  or 
buttered,  putting  in  each  a  piece  of  dough  half  the  size 
you  intend  your  loaf  to  be.  Now  everything  depends  on 
your  oven.  Many  people  bake  their  bread  slowly,  leav- 
ing it  in  the  oven  a  long  time,  and  this  causes  a  thick, 
hard  crust.  When  baked  in  the  modern  iron  oven, 
quick  baking  is  necessary.  Let  the  oven  be  quite  hot, 
then  put  a  little  ball  of  paste  in,  and  if  it  browns  palely 
in  seven  to  ten  minutes  it  is  about  right ;  if  it  burns,  it 
is  too  hot ;  open  the  damper  ten  minutes.  Your  bread, 
after  it  is  in  the  tins,  will  rise  much  more  quickly  than 
the  first  time.  Let  it  get  light,  but  not  too  light — twice 
its  lulTc  is  a  good  rule  ;  but  if  it  is  light  before  your  oven 
is  ready,  and  thus  in  danger  of  getting  too  porous,  work 
it  down  with  your  hand,  it  will  not  harm  it,  although  it 
is  better  so  to  manage  that  the  oven  waits  for  the  bread 
rather  than  the  bread  for  the  oven.  A  small  loaf — and 
by  all  means  make  them  small  until  you  have  gained 
experience — will  not  take  more  than  three  quarters  of  an 
hour  to  bake  ;  when  a  nice  yellow  brown,  take  it  out,  turn 
it  out  of  the  tin  into  a  cloth,  and  tap  the  bottom  ;  if  it  is 
crisp  and  smells  cooked,  the  loaf  is  done.  Once  the  bot- 
tom is  brown  it  need  remain  no  longer.  Should  that, 
however,  from  fault  of  your  oven,  be  not  brown,  but 
soft  and  white,  you  must  put  it  back  in  the  oven,  the 
bottom  upwards.  An  oven  that  does  not  bake  at  the 
bottom  will,  however,  be  likely  to  spoil  your  bread.     It 


On  Bread.  15 

is  sometimes  caused  by  a  careless  servant  leaving  a  col- 
lection of  ashes  underneath  it ;  satisfy  yourself  that  all 
the  flues  are  perfectly  clean  and  clear  before  beginning 
to  bake,  and  if  it  still  refuses  to  do  its  duty,  change  it, 
for  you  will  have  nothing  but  loss  and  vexation  of  spirit 
while  you  have  it  in  use.  I  think  you  will  find  this 
bread  white,  evenly  porous  (not  with  small  holes  in  one 
part  and  caverns  in  another ;  if  it  is  so  you  have  made 
your  dough  too  stiff,  and  it  is  not  sufficiently  kneaded), 
and  with  a  thin,  crisp  crust.  Bread  will  surely  fail  to 
rise  at  all  if  you  have  scalded  the  yeast ;  the  water  must 
never  be  too  hot.  In  winter,  if  it  gets  chilled,  it  will 
only  rise  slowly,  or  not  at  all,  and  in  using  baker's  or 
German  yeast  take  care  that  it  is  not  stale,  which  will 
cause  heavy,  irregular  bread. 

In  making  bread  with  compressed  yeast  proceed  in 
exactly  the  same  way,  excepting  that  the  sponge  will  not 
need  to  be  set  over  night,  unless  you  want  to  bake  very 
early. 

If  you  have  once  produced  bread  to  your  satisfaction 
you  will  find  no  difficulty  in  making  rolls.  Proceed  as 
follows : 

Take  a  piece  of  the  dough  from  your  baking  after  it 
has  risen  once.  To  a  piece  as  large  as  a  man's  fist  take 
a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  little  powdered 
sugar  ;  work  them  into  the  dough,  put  it  in  a  bowl,  cover 
it,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise— a  shelf  behind  the 
stove  is  best ;  if  you  make  this  at  the  same  time  as 
your  bread,  you  will  find  it  takes  longer  to  rise  ;  the 
butter  causes  that  difference ;  when  very  light,  much 
lighter  than  your  bread  should  be,  take  your  hand  and 
push  it  down  till  it  is  not  larger  than  when  you  put  it 
in  the  bowl ;  let  it  rise  again,  and  again  push  it  down. 


1 6  Culture  and  Cooking. 

but  not  so  thoroughly  ;  do  this  once  or  twice  more,  and 
you  have  the  secret  of  light  rolls.  You  will  find  them  rise 
yery  quickly,  after  once  or  twice  pushing  down.  When 
they  have  risen  the  third  or  fourth  time,  take  a  little 
butter  on  your  hands,  and  break  off  small  pieces  about 
the  size  of  a  walnut  and  roll  them  round.  Either  put 
them  on  a  tin  close  together,  to  be  broken  apart,  or  an 
inch  or  two  from  each  other,  in  which  case  work  in  a 
little  more  flour,  and  cut  a  cleft  on  the  top,  and  once  more 
set  to  rise  ;  half  an  hour  will  be  long  enough  generally, 
but  in  this  case  you  must  judge  for  yourself,  they  some- 
times take  an  hour  ;  if  they  look  swelled  yery  much  and 
smooth  they  will  be  ready.  Haye  a  nice  hot  oyen,  and 
bake  for  twelye  to  fifteen  minutes. 

Add  a  little  more  sugar  to  your  dough  and  an  egg,  go 
through  the  same  process,  brush  them  oyer  with  sugar 
dissolved  in  milk,  and  you  will  have  delicious  rusks. 

The  above  is  my  own  method  of  making  rolls,  and  the 
simplest  I  know  of ;  but  there  are  numbers  of  other 
recipes  given  in  cookery  books  which  would  be  just  as 
good  if  the  exact  directions  for  letting  them  rise  were 
giyen.  As  a  test — and  eyery  experiment  you  try  will  be 
so  much  gained  in  your  experience — follow  the  recipe 
giyen  for  rolls  in  any  good  cookery  book,  take  part  of 
the  dough  and  let  it  rise  as  therein  directed,  and  bake, 
set  the  other  part  to  rise  as  /  direct,  and  notice  the  dif- 
ference. 

Kreuznach  Horns. — Either  take  a  third  of  the 
dough  made  for  bread  with  three  quarts  of  flour,  or  set 
a  sponge  with  a  pint  of  flour  and  a  yeast-cake  soaked  in 
half  a  pint  of  warm  water  or  milk,  making  it  into  a  stif- 
fish  dough  with  another  pint  of  flour;  then  add  four 
ounces  of  butter,  a  little  sugar,  and  two  eggs;  work  well. 


On  Bread.  17 

If  you  use  the  bread  doughy  you  will  need  to  dredge  in 
a  little  more  flour  on  account  of  the  eggs,  but  not  very 
much;  then  set  to  rise  as  for  rolls,  work  it  down  twice  or 
thrice,  then  turn  the  dough  out  on  the  molding  board 
lightly  floured,  roll  it  as  you  would  pie-crust  into  pieces 
six  inches  square,  and  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  make  two 
sharp,  quick  cuts  across  it  from  corner  to  corner,  and  you 
will  have  from  each  square  four  three-cornered  pieces  of 
paste;  spread  each  thinly  with  soft  butter,  flour  lightly, 
and  roll  up  very  lightly  from  the  wide  side,  taking  care 
that  it  is  not  squeezed  together  in  any  way  ;  lay  them  on 
a  tin  with  the  side  on  which  the  point  comes  uppermost, 
and  bend  round  in  the  form  of  a  horseshoe;  these  will 
take  some  time  to  rise;  when  they  have  swollen  much 
and  look  light,  brush  them  oyer  with  white  of  egg 
(not  beaten)  or  milk  and  butter,  and  bake  in  a  good 
oven. 

Keikgles  are  made  from  the  same  recipe,  but  with 
another  egg  and  two  ounces  of  sugar  (powdered)  added 
to  the  dough  when  first  set  to  rise;  then,  when  well  risen 
two  or  three  times,  instead  of  rolling  with  a  pin  as  for 
horns,  break  off  pieces,  roll  between  your  hands  as  thick 
as  your  finger,  and  form  into  figure  eights,  rings,  fingers; 
or  take  three  strips,  flour  and  roll  them  as  thick  as  your 
finger,  tapering  at  each  end  ;  lay  them  on  the  board, 
fasten  the  three  together  at  one  end,  and  then  lay  one 
over  the  other  in  a  plait,  fasten  the  other  end,  and  set  to 
rise,  bake;  when  done,  brush  over  with  sugar  dissolved  in 
milk,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

All  these  breads  are  delicious  for  breakfast,  and  may 
easily  be  had  without  excessive  early  rising  if  the  sponge 
is  set  in  the  morning,  dough  made  in  the  afternoon, 
and  the  rising  and  working  done  in  the  evening ;  when, 


1 8  Culture  and  Cooking. 

instead  of  making  up  into  rolls,  horns,  or.kringles,  push 
the  dough  down  thoroughly,  cover  with  a  damp  folded 
cloth,  and  put  in  a  very  cold  place  if  in  summer — not  on 
ice  of  course — then  next  morning,  as  soon  as  the  fire  is 
alight,  mold,  but  do  not  push  down  any  more,  put  in  a 
yery  warm  spot,  and  when  light,  bake. 

In  summer,  as  I  have  said,  I  think  it  safest,  to  prevent 
danger  of  souring,  to  put  a  little  soda  in  the  sponge  for 
bread  ;  and  for  rolls,  or  anything  requiring  to  rise  sev- 
eral times,  it  is  an  essential  precaution. 

Brioche. — I  suppose  the  very  name  of  this  delectable 
French  dainty  will  call  up  in  the  min-d's  eye  of  many 
who  read  this  book  that  great  "  little"  shop.  An  Grand 
Brioche^  on  the  Boulevarde  Poissoniere,  where,  on  Sun- 
day afternoons,  scores  of  boys  from  the  Lycees  form 
en  queue  with  the  general  public,  waiting  the  hour 
when  the  piles  of  golden  brioche  shall  be  ready  to  ex- 
change for  their  eager  sous.  But  I  venture  to  say,  a 
really  fine  brioche  is  rarely  eaten  on  this  side  the  Atlan- 
tic. They  being  a  luxury  welcome  to  all,  and  especially 
aromatic  of  Paris,  I  tried  many  times  to  make  them, 
obtaining  for  that  purpose  recipes  from  French  friends, 
and  from  standard  French  books,  but  never  succeeded 
in  producing  the  ideal  brioche  until  I  met  with  Gouf- 
fe's  great  book,  the  '^  Livre  de  Cuisine/^  after  reading 
which,  I  may  here  say,  all  secrets  of  the  French  kitchen 
are  laid  bare  ;  no  effort  is  spared  to  make  everything 
plain,  from  the  humble  pot-au-feii  to  the  most  gorgeous 
monumental  plat.  And  I  would  refer  any  one  who  wants 
to  become  proficient  in  any  French  dish,  to  that  book, 
feeling  sure  that,  in  following  strictly  the  directions, 
there  will  be  no  failure.  It  is  the  one  book  I  have  met 
with  on  the  subject  in  which  no  margin  is  left  for  your 


On  Bread.  19 

own  knowledge,  if  you  liaye  it,  to  fill  up.     But  to  the 
brioche. 

PARIS   JOCKEY-CLUB   RECIPE   FOR  BRIOCHE. 

Sift  one  pound  of  flour,  take  one  fourth  of  it,  and  add 
rather  more  than  half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  dis- 
solved in  half  a  gill  of  warm  water,  make  into  a  sponge 
with  a  very  little  more  water,  put  it  in  a  warm  place  ; 
when  it  is  double  its  volume  take  the  rest  of  the  flour, 
make  a  hole  in  the  center,  and  put  in  it  an  equal  quantity 
of  salt  and  sugar,  about  a  teaspoonful,  and  two  tablespoon - 
fuls  of  water  to  dissolve  them.  Three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter  and  four  eggs,  beat  well,  then  add  another  ^g'g^ 
beat  again,  and  add  another,  and  so  on  until  seven  have 
been  used ;  the  paste  must  be  soft,  but  not  spread ;  if  too 
firm,  add  another  egg.  Now  mix  this  paste  with  the 
sponge  thoroughly,  beating  until  the  paste  leaves  the 
sides  of  the  bowl,  then  put  it  in  a  crock  and  cover  ;  let 
it  stand  four  hours  in  a  warm  place,  then  turn  it  out  on 
a  board,  spread  it  and  double  it  four  timeSy  return  it  to 
the  crock,  and  let  it  rise  again  two  hours  ;  repeat  the 
former  process  of  doubling  and  spreading,  and  put  it  in 
a  very  cold  place  for  two  hours,  or  until  you  want  to  use 
it.  Mold  in  any  form  you  like,  but  the  true  brioche  is 
two  pieces,  one  as  large  again  as  the  other  ;  form  the 
large  one  into  a  ball,  make  a  deep  depression  in  the  cen- 
ter, on  which  place  the  smaller  ball,  pressing  it  gently 
in ;  cut  two  or  three  gashes  round  it  with  a  sharp  knife, 
and  bake  a  beautiful  golden  brown.  These  brioche  are 
such  a  luxury,  and  so  sure  to  come  out  right,  that  the 
trouble  of  making  them  is  well  worth  the  taking,  and 
for  another  reason  :  every  one  knows  the  great  diflBculty 
of  making  puff  paste  in  summer,  and  a  short  paste  is 


20  Culture  and  Cooking. 

never  handsome  ;  but  take  a  piece  of  brioche  paste,  roll 
it  out  thin,  dredge  with  flour,  fold  and  roll  again,  then 
use  as  you  would  puff  paste ;  if  for  sweet  pastry,  a 
little  powdered  sugar  may  be  sprinkled  through  it  in- 
stead of  dredging  with  flour.  This  makes  a  yery  hand- 
some and  delicious  crust.  Or,  another  use  to  which  it 
may  be  put  is  to  roll  it  out,  cut  it  in  rounds,  lay  on 
them  mince-meat,  orange  marmalade,  jam,  or  merely 
sprinkle  with  currants,  chopped  citron,  and  spices,  fold, 
press  the  edges,  and  bake. 

Before  quitting  the  subject  of  breads  I  must  introduce 
a  noyelty  which  I  will  call  ^^soufflee  bread."  It  is 
quickly  made,  possible  even  when  the  fire  is  poor,  and  so 
delicious  that  I  know  you  will  thank  me  for  making 
you  acquainted  with  it. 

Use  two  or  three  eggs  according  to  size  you  wish,  and 
to  each  ^gg  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Mix  the  yolks 
with  the  flour  and  with  them  a  dessert-spoonful  of  but- 
ter melted,  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  N&YjthicTc  batter, 
work,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
work  till  quite  smooth,  then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
in  a  firm  froth,  stir  them  in  gently,  and  add  a  quarter 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  half  a  one  of  cream  of  tartar. 
Have  ready  an  iron  frying-pan  (or  an  earthen  one  that 
will  stand  heat  is  better),  made  hot  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  in  it,  also  hot,  but  not  so  hot  as  for  frying. 
Pour  the  batter  (which  should  be  of  the  consistency  of 
sponge  cake  batter)  into  the  pan,  cover  it  with  a  lid 
or  tin  plate,  and  set  it  back  of  the  stove  if  the  fire  is 
hot — if  very  slow  it  may  be  forward  ;  when  well  risen 
and  near  done,  put  it  in  the  oven,  or  if  the  oven 
is  cold  you  may  turn  it  gently,  not  to  deaden  it. 
Serve   when   done   (try  with   a  twig),  the  under  side 


On  Bread.  21 

nppermost ;  it  should  be  of  a  fine  golden  brown  and 
look  like  an  omelet.  This  soufflee  bread  is  equally 
good  laked  in  a  tin  in  which  is  rather  more  butter  than 
enough  to  grease  it ;  the  oven  must  be  very  hot  in- 
deed. Coyer  it  for  the  few  minutes  with  a  tin  plate  or 
lid,  to  prevent  it  scorching  before  it  has  risen  ;  when  it 
has  puffed  up  remove  the  lid,  and  allow  it  to  brown,  ten 
to  fifteen  minutes  should  bake  it  ;  turn  it  out  as  you 
would  sponge  cake — very  carefully,  not  to  deaden  it.  To 
succeed  with  bread  you  must  use  the  very  best  flour. 


OHAPTEE  III. 

PASTRY. 

To  MAKE  good  puff  paste  is  a  thing  many  ladies  are 
anxious  to  do,  and  in  which  they  generally  fail,  and  this 
not  so  much  because  they  do  not  make  it  properly,  as 
because  they  handle  it  badly.  A  lady  who  was  very 
anxious  to  excel  in  pastry  once  asked  me  to  allow  her  to 
watch  me  make  paste.  I  did  so,  and  explained  that  there 
was  more  in  the  manner  of  using  than  in  the  making 
up.  I  then  gave  her  a  piece  of  my  paste  when  com- 
pleted, and  asked  her  to  cover  some  patty  pans  while  I 
covered  others,  cautioning  her  as  to  the  way  she  must 
cover  them  ;  yet,  when  those  covered  by  her  came  out 
of  the  oven  they  had  not  risen  at  all,  they  were  like  rich 
short  paste  ;  while  my  own,  made  from  the  same  paste, 
were  toppling  over  with  lightness.  I  had,  without  say- 
ing anything,  pressed  my  thumb  slightly  on  one  spot  of 
one  of  mine  ;  in  that  spot  the  paste  had  not  risen  at  all, 
and  I  think  this  practical  demonstration  of  what  I  had 
tried  to  explain  was  more  useful  than  an  hour's  talk 
would  have  been. 

I  will  first  give  my  method  of  making,  wliich  is  the 
usual  French  way  of  making  "feiiilletonage.^^  Take 
one  pound  of  butter,  or  half  of  it  lard  ;  press  all  the 
water  out  by  squeezing  it  in  a  cloth  ;  this  is  impor- 
tant, as  the  liquid  in  it  would  wet  your  paste ;  take  a 

third  of  the  butter,  or  butter  and  lard,  and  rub  it  into 

22 


Pastry,  23 

one  pound  of  fine  flour ;  add  no  salt  if  your  butter  is 
salted  ;  then  take  enough  water  (to  which  you  may  add 
the  well-beaten  white  of  an  egg,  but  it  is  not  absolutely 
necessary)  to  make  the  flour  into  a  smooth,  firm  dough;  it 
must  not  be  too  stiff,  or  it  will  be  hard  to  roll  out,  or 
too  soft,  or  it  will  never  make  good  paste  ;  it  should  roll 
easily,  yet  not  stick ;  work  it  till  it  is  yery  smooth,  then 
roll  it  out  till  it  is  half  an  inch  thick  ;  now  lay  the  whole 
of  the  butter  in  the  center,  fold  one-third  the  paste  over, 
then  the  other  third ;  it  is  now  folded  in  three,  with  the 
butter  completely  hidden ;  now  turn  the  ends  toward 
you,  and  roll  it  till  it  is  half  an  inch  thick,  taking  care, 
by  rolling  very  evenly,  that  the  butter  is  not  pressed  out 
at  the  other  end  ;  now  you  have  a  piece  of  paste  about 
two  feet  long,  and  not  half  that  width  ;  flour  it  lightly, 
and  fold  over  one  third  and  under  one  third,  which  will 
almost  bring  it  to  a  square  again  ;  turn  it  round  so  that 
what  was  the  side  is  now  the  end,  and  roll.  Most  likely 
now  the  butter  will  begin  to  break  through,  in  which 
case  fold  it,  after  flouring  lightly,  in  three,  as  before,  and 
put  it  on  a  dish  on  the  ice,  covering  it  with  a  damp  cloth. 
You  may  now  either  leave  it  for  an  hour  or  two,  or  till 
next  day.  Paste  made  the  day  before  it  is  used  is  much 
better  and  easier  to  manage,  and  in  winter  it  may  be  kept 
for  four  or  five  days  in  a  cold  place,  using  from  it  as 
required. 

When  ready  to  use  your  paste  finish  the  making  by 
rolling  it  out,  dredging  a  little  flour,  and  doubling  it  in 
three  as  before,  and  roll  it  out  thin  ;  do  this  until  from 
first  to  last  it  has  been  so  doubled  and  rolled  seven  times. 

Great  cooks  differ  on  one  or  two  points  in  making 
pastry ;  for  instance,  Soyer  directs  you  to  put  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  instead  of  the  white,  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon 


24  Culture  and  Cooking, 

juice  into  the  flour^  and  expressly  forbids  you  to  work  it 
before  adding  the  mass  of  butter,  while  Jules  Gouffe 
says,  ^^work  it  until  smooth  and  shining."  I  cannot 
pretend  to  decide  between  these  differing  doctors,  but  I 
pursue  the  method  I  have  given  and  always  have  light 
pastry.  And  now  to  the  handling  of  it :  It  must  only  be 
touched  by  the  lightest  fingers,  every  cut  must  be  made 
with  a  sharp  knife,  and  done  with  one  quick  stroke  so  that 
the  paste  is  not  dragged  at  all  ;  in  covering  a  pie  dish  or 
patty  pan,  you  are  commonly  directed  to  mold  the  paste 
over  it  as  thin  as  possible,  which  conveys  the  idea  that  the 
paste  is  to  be  pressed  over  and  so  made  thin  ;  this  would 
destroy  the  finest  paste  in  the  world  ;  roll  it  thin,  say 
for  small  tartlets,  less  than  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
for  a  pie  a  trifle  thicker,  then  lay  the  dish  or  tin  to  be 
covered  on  the  paste,  and  cut  out  with  a  knife,  dipped  in 
liot  water  or  flour,  a  piece  a  little  larger  than  the  mold, 
then  line  with  the  piece  you  have  cut,  touching  it  as  little 
as  possible  ;  press  only  enough  to  make  the  paste  adhere 
to  the  bottom,  but  on  no  account  press  the  border;  to 
test  the  necessity  of  avoiding  this,  gently  press  one  spot 
on  a  tart,  before  putting  it  in  the  oven,  only  so  much  as 
many  people  always  do  in  making  pie,  and  watch  the 
result.  When  your  tartlets  or  pies  are  made,  take  each 
up  on  your  left  hand,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  dipped  in 
flour  trim  it  round  quickly.  To  make  the  cover  of  a 
pie  adhere  to  the  under  crust,  lay  the  forefinger  of  your 
right  hand  lengthwise  round  the  border,  but  as  far  from 
the  edge  as  you  can,  thus  forming  a  groove  for  the  syrups, 
and  pressing  the  cover  on  at  the  same  time.  A  word 
here  about  fruit  pies  :  Pile  the  fruit  high  in  the  center, 
leaving  a  space  all  round  the  sides  almost  bare  of  fruit, 
when  the  cover  is  on  press  gently  the  paste,  as  I  have 


Pastry.  25 

explained,  into  this  grooye,  then  make  two  or  three  deep 
holes  in  the  groove  ;  the  juice  will  boil  out  of  these  holes 
and  run  round  this  grooye,  instead  of  boiling  out  through 
the  edges  and  wasting. 

This  is  the  pastry-cook's  way  of  making  pies,  and  makes 
a  much  handsomer  one  than  the  usual  flat  method, 
besides  saying  your  syrup.  To  ornament  fruit  pies  or 
tartlets,  whip  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  stir  in  as  much 
powdered  sugar  as  will  make  a  thin  meringue — a  large 
tablespoonful  is  usually  enough — then  when  your  pies  or 
tartlets  are  baked,  take  them  from  the  oyen,  glaze  with 
the  egg  and  sugar,  and  return  to  the  oyen,  leaving  the 
door  open  ;  when  it  has  set  into  a  frosty  icing  they  are 
ready  to  serve. 

It  is  worth  while  to  accomplish  puff  paste,  for  so 
many  dainty  trifles  may  be  made  with  it,  which,  at- 
tempted with  the  ordinary  short  paste,  would  be  unsight- 
ly.   Some  of  these  that  seem  to  me  novel  I  will  describe. 

Rissole ttes  are  made  with  trimmings  of  pufE  paste;  if 
you  have  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  left,  roll  it  out  very 
thin,  about  as  thick  as  a  flfty-cent  piece;  put  about  half 
a  spoonful  of  marmalade  or  jam  on  it,  in  places  about 
an  inch  apart,  wet  lightly  round  each,  and  place  a  piece 
of  paste  over  all ;  take  a  small  round  catter  as  large  as 
a  dollar,  and  press  round  the  part  where  the  marma- 
lade or  jam  is  with  the  thick  part  of  the  cutter;  then  cut 
them  out  with  a  cutter  a  size  larger,  lay  them  on  a  bak- 
ing tin,  brush  over  with  white  of  egg;  then  cut  some  little 
rings  the  size  of  a  quarter  dollar,  put  one  on  each,  egg 
over  again,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  nice  hot  oven; 
then  sift  white  sugar  all  over,  put  them  back  in  the  oven 
to  glaze  ;  a  little  red  currant  jelly  in  each  ring  looks 
pretty  ;  serve  in  the  form  of  a  pyramid. 
2 


26  Culture  and  Cooking. 

Pastet  Tablets. — Cut  strips  of  paste  three  inches 
and  a  half  long,  and  an  inch  and  a  half  wide,  and  as 
thick  as  a  twenty-fiye  cent  piece  ;  lay  on  half  of  them 
a  thin  filmy  layer  of  jam  or  marmalade,  not  jelly;  then 
on  each  lay  a  strip  without  jam,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  When  the  paste  is  well  risen  and  brown,  take 
them  out,  glaze  them  with  white  of  egg  and  sugar, 
and  sprinkle  chopped  almonds  over  them  ;  return  to 
the  oven  till  the  glazing  is  set  and  the  almonds  just 
colored;  serve  them  hot  or  cold  on  a  napkin  piled  log- 
cabin  fashion. 

Fkakgipake  Tartlets. — One  quarter  pint  of  cream^ 
four  yolks  of  eggs,  two  ounces  of  flour,  three  macaroons, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  the  peel  of  a 
grated  lemon,  and  a  little  citron  cut  very  fine,  a  little 
brandy  and  orange-flower  water.  Put  all  the  ingredi- 
ents, except  the  eggs,  in  a  saucepan — of  course  you  will 
mix  the  flour  smooth  in  the  cream  first — let  them 
come  to  a  boil  slowly,  stirring  to  prevent  lumps ; 
when  the  flour  smells  cooked,  take  it  off  the  fire  for 
a  minute,  then  stir  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  into  it. 
Stand  the  saucepan  in  another  of  boiling  water  and  re- 
turn to  the  stove,  stirring  till  the  eggs  seem  done — about 
five  minutes,  if  the  water  boils  all  the  time.  Line  patty 
pans  with  puff  paste,  and  fill  with  frangipane  and  bake. 
Ornament  with  chopped  almonds  and  meringue,  or  not, 
as  you  please. 

It  is  very  difficult  to  make  fine  puff  paste  in  warm 
weather,  and  almost  impossible  without  ice  ;  for  this 
reason  I  think  the  brioche  paste  preferable;  but  if  it 
is  necessary  to  have  it  for  any  purpose,  you  must  take 
the  following  precautions  : 

Have  your  water  iced  ;  have  your  butter  as  firm  as 


Pastry,  27 

possible  by  being  kept  on  ice  till  the  last  moment ;  make 
the  paste  in  the  coolest  place  you  haye,  and  under  the 
breeze  of  an  open  window,  if  possible  ;  make  it  the  day 
before  you  use  it,  and  put  it  on  the  ice  between  every 
^Hurn/'  as  each  rolling  out  is  technically  called;  then 
leaye  it  on  the  ice,  as  you  use  it,  taking  pieces  from  it  as 
you  need  them,  so  that  the  warmth  cannot  soften  the 
whole  at  once,  when  it  would  become  quite  unmanage- 
able. The  condition  of  the  oven  is  a  yery  important 
matter,  and  I  cannot  do  better  than  transcribe  the  rules 
giyen  by  GoufEe,  by  which  you  may  test  its  fitness  for 
any  purpose  : 

Put  half  a  sheet  of  writing  paper  in  the  oyen;  if  it 
catches  fire  it  is  too  hot;  open  the  dampers  and  wait 
ten  minutes,  when  put  in  another  piece  of  paper ;  if  it 
blackens  it  is  still  too  hot.  Ten  minutes  later  put  in  a 
third  piece ;  if  it  gets  darTc  hrown  the  oven  is  right  for 
all  small  pastry.  Called  " davTc  Irown  paper  heat.'' 
Light  hrown  paper  heat  is  suitable  for  vol-au-vents  or 
fruit  pies.  DarTc  yellow  paper  heat  for  large  pieces  of 
pastry  or  meat  pies,  pound  cake,  bread,  etc.  Light  yel- 
low paper  heat  for  sponge  cake,  meringues,  etc. 

To  obtain  these  various  degrees  of  heat,  you  try  paper 
every  ten  minutes  till  the  heat  required  for  your  purpose 
is  attained.  But  remember  that  ^Hight  yellow '^  means 
the  paper  only  tinged  ;  ^^dark  yellow,^'  the  paper  the 
color  of  ordinary  pine  wood;  ^'^  light  brown''  is  only  a 
shade  darker,  about  the  color  of  nice  pie-crust,  and  dark 
brown  a  shade  darker,  by  no  means  coffee  color. 


CHAPTER  IV. 


WHAT  TO   HAYE   11^5^   YOUR  STORE-ROOM. 


Oke  great  trouble  with  many  young  housekeepers  is 
betrayed  by  the  common  remark^  "  Cookery  books  al- 
ways require  so  many  things  that  one  neyer  has  in  the 
house,  and  they  coolly  order  you  to  '  moisten  with  gravy/ 
*  take  a  little  gravy/  as  if  you  had  only  to  go  to  the  pump 
and  get  it."  It  is  very  true  that  economy  in  cooking  is 
much  aided  by  having  a  supply  of  various  condiments  ; 
warmed-over  meat  may  then  be  converted  into  a  delicious 
little  entree  with  little  trouble.  I  would  recommend, 
therefore,  any  one  who  is  in  earnest  about  reforming 
her  dinner  table  to  begin  by  expending  a  few  dollars  in 


the  following  articles 


1  bottle  of  capers, 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 


olives, 

gherkins, 

soy, 

anchovies 

tarragon  vinegar. 


bottle  of  claret, 

''    white  wine, 

^'    sherry  for  cooking, 

^*    brandy, 

^'    Harvey  sauce, 

^*    walnut  ketchup. 


And  a  package  of  compressed  vegetables  and  a  few  bay  leaves 


Ten  dollars  thus  spent  may  seem  a  good  deal  of  money 
to  a  young  housewife  trying  to  make  her  husband's  salary 
go  as  far  as  it  will ;  but  I  assure  her  it  is  in  the  end  an 
economy,  especially  in  a  small  family,  who  are  so  apt  to 
get  tired  of  seeing  the  same  thing,   that  it  has  to  be 

28 


What  to  Have  in   Your  Store-room,  29 

thrown  or  giyen  away.  With  these  condiments  and 
others  I  have  yet  to  mention  you  will  have  no  trouble 
in  using  ^very  scrap  ;  not  using  it  and  eating  it  from  a 
sense  of  duty,  and  wishing  it  was  something  better,  but 
enjoying  it.  With  your  store-room  well  provided,  you 
can  indeed  go  for  gravy  ^^as  if  to  the  pump." 

Besides  the  foregoing  list  of  articles  to  be  bought  of 
any  good  grocer,  there  are  others  which  can  be  made  at 
home  to  advantage,  and  once  made  are  always  ready. 
Mushroom  powder  I  prefer  for  any  use  to  mushroom 
catsup ;  it  is  easily  made  and  its  uses  are  infinite. 
Sprinkled  over  steak  (when  it  must  be  sifted)  or  chops, 
it  is  delicious.  For  ordinary  purposes,  such  as  flavoring 
soup  or  gravy,  it  need  not  be  sifted.  To  prepare  it,  take 
a  peck  of  large  and  very  fresh  mushrooms,  look  them  over 
carefully  that  they  are  not  wormy,  then  cleanse  them 
with  a  piece  of  flannel  from  sand  or  grit,  then  peel  them 
and  put  them  in  the  sun  or  a  cool  oven  to  dry ;  they  re- 
quire long,  slow  drying,  and  must  become  in  a  state  to 
crumble.  Your  peck  will  have  diminished  by  the  pro- 
cess into  half  a  pint  or  less  of  mushroom  powder,  but 
you  have  the  means  with  it  of  making  a  rich  gravy  at  a 
few  minutes'  notice. 

Apropos  of  gravies — that  much-vexed  question  in 
small  households — for  without  gravies  on  hand  you  can- 
not make  good  hash,  or  many  other  things  that  are  mis- 
erable without,  and  excellent  with  it.  Yet  how  difficult 
it  is  to  have  gravy  always  on  hand  every  mistress  of  a 
small  family  knows,  in  spite  of  the  constant  advice  to 
"  save  your  trimming  to  make  stock.''  Do  by  all  means 
save  your  bones,  gristle,  odds  and  ends  of  meat  of  all 
kinds,  and  convert  them  into  broth  ;  but  even  if  you 
do,  it  often  happens  that  the  days  you  have  done  so  no 


30  Culture  and  Cooking. 

grsiYj  is  required^  and  then  it  sours  quickly  in  summer, 
although  it  may  be  arrested  by  reboiling.  In  no  family 
of  three  or  four  are  there  odds  and  ends  enough,  unless 
there  is  a  yery  extravagant  table  kept,  to  insure  stock  for 
every  day.  My  remedy  for  this,  then,  is  to  make  a 
stock  that  will  keep  for  months  or  years — in  other  words, 
glaze.  So  very  rarely  forming  part  of  a  housewife's 
stores,  yet  so  valuable  that  the  fact  is  simply  astonish- 
ing ;  with  a  piece  of  glaze,  you  have  a  dish  of  soup  on 
an  emergency,  rich  gravy  for  any  purpose,  and  all  with 
the  expenditure  of  less  time  than  would  make  a  pot  of 
svv^eetmeats. 

Take  six  pounds  of.  a  knuckle  of  veal  or  leg  of  beef, 
cut  it  in  pieces  the  size  of  an  egg,  as  also  half  a  pound 
of  lean  ham  ;  then  rub  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  on 
the  bottom  of  your  pot,  which  should  hold  two  gallons  ; 
then  put  in  the  meat  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  three 
middle-sized  onions,  with  two  cloves  in  each,  a  turnip,  a 
carrot,  and  a  small  head  of  celery ;  then  place  over  a 
quick  fire,  occasionally  stirring  it  round,  until  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pot  is  covered  with  a  thick  glaze,  which  will 
adhere  lightly  to  the  spoon  ;  then  fill  up  the  pot  with 
cold  water,  and  when  on  the  boiling  point,  draw  it  to  the 
back  of  the  stove,  where  it  may  gently  simmer  three 
hours,  if  veal,  six  if  beef,  carefully  skimming  it  to  re- 
move scum.  This  stock,  as  it  is,  will  make  a  delicious 
foundation,  with  the  addition  of  salt,  for  all  kinds  of 
clear  soup  or  gravies.  To  reduce  it  to  glaze  proceed  as 
follows  :  Pass  the  stock  through  a  fine  hair  sieve  or 
cloth  into  a  pan  ;  then  fill  up  the  pot  again  with  Jiot 
water,  and  let  it  boil  four  hours  longer  to  obtain  all  the 
glutinous  part  from  the  meat ;  strain,  and  pour  both 
stocks  in  a  large  pot  or  stew-pan  together ;  set  it  over  the 


What  to  Have  in   Your  Store-room.  31 

fire,  and  let  it  boil  as  fast  as  possible  with  the  lid  ofE, 
leaving  a  large  spoon  in  it  to  prevent  it  boiling  over,  and 
to  stir  occasionally.  When  reduced  to  about  three  pints, 
pour  it  into  a  small  stew-pan  or  saucepan,  set  again  to 
boil,  but  more  slowly,  skimming  it  if  necessary ;  when 
it  is  reduced  to  a  quart,  set  it  where  it  will  again  boil 
quickly,  stirring  it  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it 
begins  to  get  thick  and  of  a  fine  yellowish-brown  color  ; 
at  this  point  be  careful  it  does  not  burn. 

You  may  either  pour  it  into  a  pot  for  use,  or,  what  is 
more  convenient  for  making  gravies,  get  a  sausage  skin 
from  your  butcher,  cut  a  yard  of  it,  tie  one  end  very 
tightly,  then  pour  into  it  by  means  of  a  large  funnel  the 
glaze ;  from  this  cut  slices  for  use.  A  thick  slice  dis- 
solved in  hot  water  makes  a  cup  of  nutritious  soup,  into 
which  you  may  put  any  cooked  vegetables,  or  rice,  or 
barley.  A  piece  is  very  useful  to  take  on  a  journey, 
especially  for  an  invalid  who  does  not  want  to  depend  on 
wayside  hotel  food,  or  is  tired  of  beef -tea. 

The  foregoing  is  the  orthodox  recipe  for  glaze,  and  if 
you  have  to  buy  meat  for  the  purpose  the  very  best  way 
in  which  you  can  make  it ;  but  if  it  happen  that  you 
have  some  strong  meat  soup  or  jelly,  for  which  you  have 
no  use  while  fresh,  then  boil  it  down  till  it  is  thick  and 
brown  (not  burnt)  ;  it  will  be  excellent  glaze  ;  not  so  fine 
in  flavor,  perhaps,  but  it  preserves  to  good  use  what 
would  otherwise  be  lost.  Very  many  people  do  not 
know  the  value  of  pork  for  making  jelly.  If  you  live  in 
the  country  and  kill  a  pig,  use  his  hocks  for  making  glaze 
instead  of  beef. 

Glaze  also  adds  much  to  the  beauty  of  many  dishes. 
If  roast  beef  is  not  quite  brown  enough  on  any  one  spot 
set  your  jar  of  glaze — for  this  purpose  it  is  well  to  have 


32  Culture  and  Cooking. 

some  put  in  a  jar  as  well  as  in  the  skin — in  boiling  water. 
Keep  a  small  stiff  brush  ;  such  as  are  sold  for  the  pur- 
pose at  house-furnishing  stores^  called  a  glazing  brush, 
are  best ;  but  you  may  manage  with  any  other  or  e\^en  a 
stiff  feather.  When  the  glaze  softens,  as  glue  would  do, 
brush  oyer  your  meat  with  it,  it  will  giye  the  lacking 
brown  ;  or,  if  you  haye  a  ham  or  tongue  you  wish  to 
decorate  you  may  ^^yarnish'^  it,  as  it  were,  with  the 
melted  glaze ;  then  when  cold  beat  some  fresh  butter  to 
a  white  cream,  and  with  a  kitchen  syringe,  if  you  haye 
one,  a  stiff  paper  funnel  if  you  haye  not,  trace  any 
design  you  please  on  the  glazed  surface ;  this  makes  a 
yery  handsome  dish,  and  if  your  ham  has  been  properly 
boiled  will  be  yery  satisfactory  to  the  palate.  Of  the 
boiling  of  ham  I  will  speak  in  another  chapter, 

I  haye  a  few  more  articles  to  recommend  for  your 
store-room,  and  then  I  think  you  will  find  yourself  equal 
to  the  emergency  of  proyiding  an  elegant  little  meal  if 
called  upon  unexpectedly,  proyided  you  haye  any  cold 
scraps  at  all  in  the  house,  and  mattre  d^hotel  butter. 

To  make  the  latter,  take  half  a  pound  of  fine  butter, 
one  tablespoonful  of  yery  fresh  parsley,  chopped  not  too 
fine,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  small  tablespoonful  of  lemon 
juice ;  mix  together,  but  do  not  work  more  than  suffi- 
cient for  that  purpose,  and  pack  in  a  jar,  keeping  it  in  a 
cool  place.  A  tablespoonful  of  this  laid  in  a  hot  dish 
on  which  you  serye  beefsteak,  chops,  or  any  kind  of  fish, 
is  a  great  addition,  and  turns  plain  boiled  potatoes  into 
pomme  de  terre  a  la  maitre  dlioteh  It  is  excellent  with 
stewed  potatoes,  or  added  to  anything  for  which  parsley 
is  needed,  and  not  always  at  hand  ;  a  spoonful  with  half 
the  quantity  of  flour  stirred  into  a  gill  of  milk  or  water 
makes  the  renowned  maitre  d^hotel  sauce  (or  English 


What  to  Have  in   Your  Store-room.  33 

parsley  butter)  for  boiled  fish^  mutton^  or  veal.  In 
shorty  it  is  one  of  the -most  valuable  things  to  have  in 
the  house.  Equally  valuable^  even^  and  more  elegant  is 
the  preparation  known  as  ^^Eavigotte^^  or  Montpellier 
butter. 

T^ke  one  pound  in  equal  quantities  of  chervil^  tarra- 
gon, burnet  (pimpernel),  chives,  and  garden  cress  (pep- 
pergrass)  ;  scald  two  minutes,  drain  quite  dry ;  pound  in 
a  mortar  three  hard  eggs,  three  anchovies,  and  one  scant 
ounce  of  pickled  cucumbers,  and  same  quantity  of  capers 
well  pressed  to  extract  the  vinegar  ;  add  salt,  pepper,  and 
a  bit  of  garlic  half  as  large  as  a  pea,  rub  all  through  a 
sieve  ;  then  put  a  pound  of  fine  butter  into  the  mortar, 
which  must  be  well  cleansed  from  the  herbs,  add  the 
herbs,  with  two  tablespoonf  uls  of  oil  and  one  of  tarragon 
vinegar,  mix  perfectly,  and  if  not  of  a  fine  green,  add 
the  juice  of  some  pounded  spinach. 

This  is  the  celebrated  "leurre  de  Montpellier,^^  sold 
in  Paris  in  tiny  jars  at  a  high  price.  Kavigotte  is  the 
same  thing,  only  in  place  of  the  eggs,  anchovies,  pickles, 
and  capers,  put  half  a  pound  more  butter  ;  it  is  good,  but 
less  piquant. 

Pack  in  a  jar,  and  keep  cool.  This  butter  is  excel- 
lent for  many  purposes.  For  salad,  beaten  with  oil, 
vinegar,  and  yolks  of  eggs,  as  for  mayonnaise,  it  makes 
a  delicious  dressing.  For  cold  meat  or  fish  it  is  excel- 
lent, and  also  for  chops. 

Two  or  three  other  articles  serve  to  simplify  the  art  of 
cooking  in  its  especially  difficult  branches,  and  in  the 
branches  a  lady  finds  difficult  to  attend  to  herself  with- 
out remaining  in  the  kitchen  until  the  last  minute  before 
dinner ;  but  with  the  aid  of  blanc  and  roux  a  fairly 
intelligent  girl  can  make  excellent  sauces. 
2* 


34  Culture  and  Cooking, 

For  roux  melt  slowly  half  a  pound  of  butter  over  the 
fire,  skim  it,  let  it  settle,  then  dredge  in  eight  ounces  of 
fine  flour,  stir  it  till  it  is  of  a  bright  brown,  then  put 
away  in  a  jar  for  use. 

Blanc  is  the  same  thing,  only  it  is  not  allowed  to 
brown ;  it  should  be  stirred  only  enough  to  make  all  hot 
through,  then  put  away  in  a  jar. 

If  you  need  thickening  for  a  white  sauce  and  do  not 
wish  to  stand  over  it  yourself,  haying  taught  your  cook 
the  simple  fact  that  a  piece  of  blanc  put  into  the  milk 
tefore  it  boils  (or  it  will  harden  instead  of  melt)  and 
allowed  to  dissolve,  stirring  constantly,  will  make  the 
sauce  you  wish,  she  will  be  able  at  all  times  to  produce 
a  white  sauce  that  you  need  not  be  ashamed  of.  When 
the  sauce  is  nearly  ready  to  serve,  stir  in  a  good  piece  of 
butter — a  large  spoonful  to  half  a  pint ;  when  mixed, 
the  sauce  is  ready.  Brown  sauce  can  always  be  made 
by  taking  a  cup  of  broth  or  soup  and  dissolving  in  the 
same  way  a  piece  of  the  roux ;  and  also,  if  desired,  a 
piece  of  Montpellier  butter.  If  there  is  no  soup  of  course 
you  make  it  with  a  piece  of  glaze. 

Brown  flour  is  also  a  convenient  thing  to  have  ready  ; 
it  is  simply  cooking  flour  in  the  oven  until  it  is  a  pale 
brown  ;  if  it  is  allowed  to  get  dark  it  will  be  bitter,  and, 
that  it  may  brown  evenly,  it  requires  to  be  laid  on  a  large 
flat  baking  pan  and  stirred  often.  Useful  for  thickening 
stews,  hash,  etc. 


CHAPTER  V. 

LUI^CHEOJS". 

Luncheo:N"  is  usually,  in  this  country,  either  a  forlorn 
meal  of  cold  meat  or  hash,  or  else  a  sort  of  early  dinner, 
both  of  which  are  a  mistake.  If  it  is  veritably  lunclieon^ 
and  not  early  dinner,  it  should  be  as  unlike  that  later 
meal  as  possible  for  variety's  sake,  and,  in  any  but  very 
small  families,  there  are  so  many  dishes  more  suitable 
for  luncheon  than  any  other  meal,  that  it  is  easy  to 
have  great  variety  with  very  little  trouble. 

I  wish  it  were  more  the  fashion  here  to  have  many  of 
the  cold  dishes  which  are  popular  on  the  other  side  the 
Atlantic  ;  and,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  table  prejudices 
are  very  difficult  to  get  over,  I  will  append  a  few  recipes 
in  the  hope  that  some  lady,  more  progressive  than  prej- 
udiced, may  give  them  a  trial,  convinced  that  their  ex- 
cellence, appearance,  and  convenience  will  win  them 
favor. 

By  having  most  dishes  cold  at  luncheon,  it  makes  it  a 
distinct  meal  from  the  hot  breakfast  and  dinner.  In 
summer,  the  cold  food  and  a  salad  is  especially  refresh- 
ing ;  in  winter,  a  nice  hot  soup  or  puree— thick  soup  is 
preferable  at  luncheon  to  clear,  which  is  well  fitted  to 
precede  a  heavy  meal — and  some  savory  entree  are  very 
desirable,  while  cold  raised  pie,  galantine,  jellied  fish,  and 
potted  meats  may  ever,  at  that  season,  find  their  appro- 
priate place  on  the  luncheon  table.     The  potatoes,  which 

35 


36  Culture  and  Cooking, 

are  the  only  vegetable  introduced  at  strict  lunch,  should 
be  prepared  in  some  fancy  manner,  as  croquettes,  mashed 
and  browned,  a  la  mditre  d'hotel,  or  in  snow.  The  latter 
mode  is  pretty  and  noyel;  I  will,  therefore,  include  it 
in  my  recipes  for  luncheon  dishes.  Omelets,  too,  are 
excellent  at  luncheon. 

In  these  remarks  I  am  thinking  especially  of  large 
families,  whose  luncheon  table  might  be  provided  with 
a  dish  of  galantine,  one  of  collared  fish,  and  a  meat  pie, 
besides  the  steak,  cutlets,  or  warmed-over  meat,  without 
anything  going  to  waste.  In  winter  most  cold  jellied 
articles  will  keep  a  fortnight,  and  in  summer  three  or 
four  days. 

Wii^DSOE  Pie.— Take  slices  of  veal  cutlet,  half  an 
inch  thick,  and  very  thin  slices  of  lean  boiled  ham  ;  put 
at  the  bottom  of  one  of  these  veal-pie  dishes  or  ^^  bak- 
ers/' about  two  to  three  inches  deep,  a  layer  of  the  veal, 
seasoned,  then  one  of  ham,  then  one  of  force-meat,  made 
as  follow^s :  Take  a  little  veal,  or  if  you  have  sausage- 
meat  ready-made,  it  will  do,  as  much  fine  dry  bread- 
crumbs, a  dessert-spoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  in 
which  is  a  salt-spoonful  of  pow^dered  thyme,  savory,  and 
marjoram,  if  you  have  them,  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
mix  with  enough  butter  to  make  it  a  crumbling  paste; 
lay  a  thin  layer  of  this  on  the  ham,  then  another  of  veal, 
then  ham  and  force-meat  again,  until  the  dish  is  quite 
full.  Lay  something  flat  upon  it,  and  then  a  weight  for 
an  hour.  You  must  have  prepared,  from  bones  and 
scraps  of  veal,  about  a  pint  of  stiff  veal  jelly  ;  pour  this 
over  the  meat,  and  then  take  strips  of  rich  puff  paste 
(the  Irioche  paste  would  be  excellent  in  hot  weather), 
wet  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  lay  the  strips  round,  press- 
ing them  lightly  to  the  dish  ;  roll  the  cover  a  little 


Luncheon.  37 

larger  than  the  top  of  the  dish,  and  lay  it  on,  first  wet- 
ting the  surface,  not  the  edge,  of  the  strips  round  the 
lips  of  the  dish  ;  press  the  two  together,  then  make  a  hole 
in  the  center  and  ornament  as  you  please ;  but  I  never 
ornament  the  edge  of  a  pie,  as  it  is  apt  to  prevent  the 
paste  from  rising.  An  appropriate  and  simple  ornament 
for  meat  pies  is  to  roll  a  piece  of  paste  very  thin,  cut  it 
in  four  diamond-shaped  pieces,  put  one  point  of  each  to 
the  hole  in  the  center  so  that  you  have  one  on  each  end, 
and  one  each  side,  then  roll  another  little  piece  of  paste 
as  thin  as  possible,  flour  it  and  double  it,  then  double  it 
again,  bring  all  the  corners  together  in  your  hand,  like 
a  little  bundle,  then  with  a  sharp  knife  give  a  quick  cut 
over  the  top  of  the  ball  of  paste,  cutting  quite  deeply, 
then  another  across ;  if  your  cut  has  been  clean  and 
quick,  you  will  now  be  able  to  turn  half  back  the  leaves 
of  paste  as  if  it  were  a  half -blown  rose.  The  ends  which 
you  have  gathered  together  in  your  hand  are  to  be  in- 
serted in  the  hole  in  the  center  of  the  pie.  Then  brush 
over  with  yolk  of  egg  beaten  very  well  in  a  little  milk  or 
water,  and  bake  an  hour  and  a  half. 

This  way  of  covering  and  ornamenting  a  pie  is  ap- 
propriate for  all  meat  pies  ;  pigeon  pie  should,  however, 
have  the  little  red  feet  skinned  by  dipping  in  boiling 
water,  then  rubbed  in  a  cloth,  when  skin  and  nails  peel 
off  ;  if  allowed  to  lie  in  the  water,  the  flesh  comes  too; 
then  one  pair  is  put  at  each  end  of  the  pie,  a  hole  being 
cut  to  insert  them,  or  four  are  put  in  the  center  instead 
of  the  rose. 

The  Windsor  pie  is  intended  to  be  eaten  cold,  as  are  all 
veal  and  ham  pies,  the  beauty  of  the  jelly  being  lost  in 
a  hot  pie.  Do  not  fail  to  try  it  on  that  account,  for 
cold  pies  are  excellent  things. 


38  Culture  and  Cooking, 

A]Sj"OTHEE  YEAL  AisTD  HAM  PIE,  more  iisual,  and  proba- 
bly the  ^^weal  and  hammer'^  that  ^^mellered  the  organ'^ 
of  Silas  Wegg,  was  manufactured  by  Mrs.  BoflSn  from 
this  recipe  ;  it  is  as  follows  : 

Take  the  thick  part  of  breast  of  veal,  remoying  all  the 
bones,  which  put  on  for  grayy,  stewing  them  long  and 
slowly;  put  a  layer  of  yeal,  pepper  and  salt,  then  a  thin 
sprinkling  of  ham;  if  boiled,  cut  in  slices;  if  raw,  cut  a 
slice  in  dice,  which  scald  before  using,  then  more  yeal 
and  again  ham.  If  force-meat  balls  are  liked,  make 
some  force-meat  as  for  Windsor  pie,  using  if  you  prefer  it 
chopped  hard-boiled  eggs  in  place  of  chopped  meab,  and 
binding  into  a  paste  with  a  raw  ^gg ;  then  make  into 
balls,  which  drop  into  the  creyices  of  the  pie  ;  boil  two 
or  three  eggs  quite  hard,  cut  each  in  four  and  lay  them 
round  the  sides  and  oyer  the  top,  pour  in  about  a  gill  of 
grayy,  and  coyer  the  same  as  the  Windsor  pie.  In  either 
of  these  pies  the  force-meat  may  be  left  out,  a  sweetbread 
cut  up,  or  mushroons  put  in. 

A  chicken  pie  to  eat  cold  is  yery  fine  made  in  this  way. 

Eaised  poek  pies  are  so  familiar  to  eyery  one  who  has 
yisited  England,  and,  in  spite  of  the  greasy  idea,  are  so 
yery  good,  that  I  introduce  a  well-tried  recipe,  feeling 
sure  anyone  who  eats  pork  at  all  will  find  it  worth  while 
to  giyethem  a  trial;  they  will  follow  it  with  manyanother. 

The  paste  for  them  is  made  as  follows  : 

Kub  into  two  pounds  of  flour  a  liberal  half  pound  of 
butter,  then  melt  in  half  a  pint  of  hot,  but  not  boiling 
milk,  another  half  pound — or  it  may  be  lard;  pour  this 
into  the  flour,  and  knead  it  into  a  smooth,  firm  paste. 
Properly  raised  pies  should  be  molded  by  hand,  and  I  will 
endeayor  to  describe  the  method  in  case  any  persever- 
ing lady  would  like  to  try  and  haye  the  orthodox  thing. 


Luncheon.  39 

But  pie  molds  of  tin,  opening  at  the  side,  are  to  be 
bought,  and  save  much  trouble;  the  mold,  if  used,  should 
be  well  buttered,  and  the  pie  taken  out  when  done,  and 
returned  to  the  oven  for  the  sides  to  brown. 

To  ^^raise'^  a  pie,  proceed  thus  :  While  the  paste  is 
warm,  form  a  ball  of  paste  into  a  cone;  then  with  the 
fist  work  inside  it,  till  it  forms  an  oval  cup  ;  continue  to 
knead  till  you  have  the  walls  of  an  even  thickness,  then 
pinch  a  fold  all  around  the  bottom.  If  properly  done, 
you  have  an  oval,  flat-bottomed  crust,  with  sides  about 
two  inches  high  ;  fill  this  with  pork,  fat  and  lean 
together,  well  peppered  and  salted;  then  work  an  oval 
cover,  as  near  the  size  of  the  bottom  cover  as  you  can, 
and  wet  the  edges  of  the  wall,  lay  the  cover  on,  and 
pinch  to  match  the  bottom;  ornament  as  directed  for 
Windsor  pie,  wash  with  egg,  and  bake  a  pale  brown  in  a 
moderate  oven  ;  they  must  be  well  cooked,  or  the  meat 
will  not  be  good.  One  containing  a  pound  of  meat  may 
be  cooked  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  All  these  pies  are 
served  in  slices,  cut  through  to  the  bottom. 

Galantines  are  very  handsome  dishes,  not  very  difficult 
to  make,  and  generally  popular.  I  give  a  recipe  for  a 
very  simple  and  delicious  one  : 

Take  a  fine  breast  of  veal,  remove  all  gristle,  tendons, 
bones,  and  trim  to  fifteen  inches  in  length  and  eight 
wide;  use  the  trimmings  and  bones  to  help  make  the 
jelly,  then  put  on  the  meat  a  layer  of  force-meat  made 
thus  :  Take  one  pound  of  sausage  meat,  or  lean  veal,  to 
which  add  half  a  pound  of  bread-crumbs,  parsley  and 
thyme  to  taste;  grate  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt,  and 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  ;  have  also  some  long  strips  an 
inch  thick  of  fat  bacon  or  pork,  and  lean  of  veal,  and 
lean  ham,  well  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  finely 


40  Culture  and  Cooking. 

chopped  shallots.  Lay  on  the  meat  a  layer  of  force- 
meat  an  inch  thick^  leaving  an  inch  and  a  half  on  each 
side  uncovered  ;  then  lay  on  your  strips  of  ham^  veal, 
and  bacon  fat,  alternately;  then  another  of  force-meat^ 
but  only  half  an  inch  thick^  as  too  much  force-meat 
will  spoil  the  appearance  of  the  dish  ;  if  you  have  any 
cold  tongue^  lay  some  strips  in,  also  a  few  blanched 
pistachio  nuts  (to  be  obtained  of  a  confectioner)  will 
give  the  appearance  of  true  French  galantine.  Eoll  up 
the  veal,  and  sew  it  with  a  packing  or  coarse  needle  and 
fine  twine,  tie  it  firmly  up  in  a  piece  of  linen.  Observe 
that  you  do  not  put  your  pistachio  nuts  amid  the  force- 
meat, where,  being  green,  their  appearance  would  be  lost; 
put  them  in  crevices  of  the  meats. 

Cook  this  in  sufiicient  water  to  cover,  in  which  you 
must  have  the  trimmings  of  the  breast  and  a  knuckle  of 
veal,  or  hock  of  pork,  two  onions,  a  carrot,  half  a  head 
of  celery,  two  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  good  bunch 
of  parsley,  thyme  and  bay  leaf,  two  ounces  of  salt.  Set 
the  pot  on  the  fire  till  it  is  at  boiling  point,  then  draw 
it  to  the  back  and  let  it  simmer  three  hours,  skimming 
carefully ;  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  leaving  it  in  the 
stock  till  nearly  cold;  then  take  it  out,  remove  the  string 
from  the  napkin,  and  roll  the  galantine  up  tighter — if 
too  tight  at  first  it  will  be  hard— tying  the  napkin  at 
each  end  only;  then  place  it  on  a  dish,  set  another  dish 
on  it,  on  which  place  a  fourteen-pound  weight;  this  will 
cause  it  to  cut  firm.  When  quite  cold,  remove  strings 
and  cloth,  and  it  is  ready  to  be  ornamented  with  jelly. 
When  the  stock  in  which  the  galantine  was  cooked  is  cold 
take  off  the  fat  and  clarify  it,  first  trying,  however,  if  ifc 
is  in  right  condition,  by  putting  a  little  on  ice.  If  it  is 
not  stiff  enough  to  cut  firm,  you  must  reduce  it  by  boil- 


Luncheon,  41 

ing  ;  if  too  stiff,  that  is  approaching  glaze,  add  a  little 
water,  then  clarify  by  adding  whites  of  eggs,  as  directed 
to  clarify  soup  (see  soups).  A  glass  of  sherry  and  two 
spoonfuls  of  tarragon  or  common  yinegar  are  a  great 
improvement.  Some  people  like  this  jelly  cut  in  dice, 
to  ornament  the  galantine,  part  of  it  may  then  also  serye 
to  ornament  other  dishes  at  the  table.  But  I  prefer  to 
haye  the  galantine  enyeloped  in  jelly,  which  may  be  done 
by  putting  it  in  an  oblong  soup  tureen  or  other  vessel 
that  will  contain  it,  leaving  an  inch  space  all  round, 
then  pouring  the  jelly  over  it. 

Jellied  fish  is  a  favorite  dish  with  many,  and  is  very 
simple  to  prepare ;  it  is  also  very  ornamental.  Take 
flounders  or  almost  any  flat  fish  that  is  cheapest  at  the 
time  you  require  them.  Clean  and  scrape  them,  cut 
them  in  small  pieces,  but  do  not  cut  off  the  fins  ;  put 
them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  few  small  button  onions  or 
one  large  one,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  glass  of 
sherry,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  small 
bunch  of  parsley.  To  one  large  flounder  put  a  quart  of 
water,  and  if  you  are  going  to  jelly  oysters  put  in  their 
liquor  and  a  little  salt.  Stew  long  and  slowly,  skim- 
ming well ;  then  strain,  and  if  not  perfectly  clear  clarify 
as  elsewhere  directed.  (See  if  your  stock  jellies,  by  try- 
ing it  on  ice  before  you  clarify.)  Now  take  a  mold,  put 
in  it  pieces  of  cold  salmon,  eels  that  have  been  cooked, 
or  oysters,  the  latter  only  just  cooked  enough  in  the 
stock  to  plump  them  ;  pour  a  little  of  the  jelly  in  the 
mold,  then  three  or  four  half  slices  of  lemon,  then  oys- 
ters or  the  cold  fish,  until  the  mold  is  near  full,  dis- 
posing the  lemon  so  that  it  will  be  near  the  sides  and 
decorate  the  jelly  ;  then  pour  the  rest  of  the  jelly  over 
all  and  stand  in  boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes,  then 


42  Culture  and  Cooking. 

put  it  in  a  cold  place,  on  ice  is  best,  for  some  hours. 
When  about  to  serve,  dip  the  mold  in  hot  water,  turn 
out  on  a  dish,  garnish  with  lettuce  leaves  or  parsley  and 
hard-boiled  eggs.  The  latter  may  be  introduced  into 
the  jelly  cut  in  quarters  if  it  is  desired ;  very  ornamen- 
tal force-meat  balls  made  bright  green  with  spinach  juice 
are  also  an  improvement  in  appearance. 

A  New  MATO]S':NrAiSE  (Soyer's).— Put  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  stiff  veal  jelly  (that  has  been  nicely  flavored  with 
vegetables)  on  ice  in  a  bowl,  whisking  it  till  it  is  a  white 
froth  ;  then  add  half  a  pint  of  salad  oil  and  six  spoon- 
fuls of  tarragon  vinegar,  hy  degrees,  first  oil,  then  vine- 
gar, continually  whisking  till  it  forms  a  white,  smooth, 
sauce-like  cream  ;  season  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  quarter  ditto  of  white  pepper,  and  a  very  little  sugar, 
whisk  it  a  little  more  and  it  is  ready.  It  should  be 
dressed  pyramidically  over  the  article  it  is  served  with. 
The  advantage  of  this  sauce  is  that  (although  more  deli- 
cate than  any  other)  you  may  dress  it  to  any  height 
you  like,  and  it  will  remain  so  any  length  of  time ;  if 
the  temperature  is  cool,  it  will  remain  hours  without 
appearing  greasy  or  melting.  It  is  absolutely  necessary, 
however,  that  it  should  be  prepared  on  ice. 

All  these  dishes,  however,  are  only  adapted  for  large 
families,  but  there  are  several  ways  of  improving  on  the 
ordinary  lunch  table  of  very  small  ones.  And  nothing 
is  more  pleasant  for  the  mistress  of  one  of  these  very 
small  families  than  to  have  a  friend  drop  in  to  lunch, 
and  have  a  recherche  lunch  to  offer  with  little  trouble. 
Warming  over  will  aid  her  in  this,  and  to  that  chapter 
I  refer  her ;  but  there  are  one  or  two  ways  of  having 
cold  relishes  always  ready,  which  help  out  an  impromptu 
meal  wonderfully. 


Luncheon.  43 

Potted  meats  are  a  great  resource  to  English  house- 
keepers ;  this  side  the  Atlantic  they  are  chiefly  known 
through  the  medium  of  Cross  &  Blackwell,  though  lat- 
terly one  or  two  American  firms  have  introduced  some 
very  admirable  articles  of  the  sort.  Home-made  potted 
meats  are,  howeyer/  better  and  less  expensiye  than  those 
bought ;  they  should  be  packed  away  in  jars,  Liebig's 
extract  of  meat  jars  not  being  too  small  for  the  purpose, 
as,  while  covered  with  the  fat  they  keep  well ;  once 
opened,  they  require  eating  within  a  week  or  ten  days, 
except  in  very  cold  weather. 

Potted  bloater  is  one  of  the  least  expensive  and  appe- 
tizing of  all  potted  meats.  To  make  it,  take  two  or  three 
or  more  bloaters,  cut  off  the  heads  and  cleanse  them,  put 
them  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  cook  them  through; 
take  them  out,  take  off  the  skin,  and  remove  the  meat 
from  the  bones  carefully  ;  put  the  meat  of  the  fish  in  a 
jar  with  half  its  weight  of  butter,  leave  it  to  sloivly  cook 
in  a  cool  oven  for  an  hour,  then  take  it  out,  put  the  fish 
into  a  mortar  or  strong  dish,  pour  the  batter  on  it  care- 
fully, but  don't  let  the  gravy  pass  too,  unless  the  fish  is 
to  be  eaten  very  quickly,  as  it  would  prevent  it  keeping. 
Beat  both  butter  and  fish  till  they  form  a  paste,  add  a 
little  cayenne,  and  press  it  into  small  pots,  pouring  on 
each  melted  butter,  or  mutton  suet.  Either  should  be 
the  third  of  an  inch  thick  on  the  bloater.  This  makes 
excellent  sandwiches. 

Potted  Ham.  — Take  any  remains  of  ham  you  have, 
even  fried,  if  of  a  nice  quality,  is  good  for  the  purpose  ; 
take  away  all  stringy  parts,  sinew,  or  gristle,  put  it  in  a 
slow  oven  with  its  weight  of  butter,  let  it  stay  macerat- 
ing in  the  butter  till  very  tender,  then  beat  it  in  a  mor- 
tar, add  cayenne,  and  pack  in  pots  in  the  same  way  as 


44  Culture  and  Cooking. 

the  bloater.  Thus  you  may  pot  odds  and  ends  of  any 
meat  or  fish  you  have,  and  as  a  little  potted  meat  goes  a 
long  way,  when  you  have  a  little  lobster,  a  bit  of  chicken 
breast,  or  eyen  cold  veal,  I  adyise  you  to  use  it  in  this 
way  ;  you  will  then  haye  a  little  stock  of  dainties  in  the 
house  to  fall  back  on  at  any  time  for  unexpected  calls — 
a  yery  important  thing  in  the  country. 

Potted  chicken  or  yeal  requires  either  a  little  tongue 
or  lean  ham  to  giye  flay  or ;  but  failing  these,  a  little 
rayigotte  butter,  beaten  in  after  the  meat  is  well 
pounded,  is  by  no  means  a  bad  substitute. 

Many  people  like  the  flay  or  of  anchoyies,  but  do  not 
like  the  idea  of  eating  raw  fish  ;  for  these  anchoyy  but- 
ter is  yery  acceptable. 

Take  the  anchoyies  out  of  the  liquor  in  which  they  are 
packed,  but  do  not  wash  them,  put  them  in  twice  their 
weight  of  butter  in  a  jar,  which  stand  in  boiling  water  ; 
set  all  back  of  the  stoye  for  an  hour,  then  pound,  add 
cayenne,  and  pack  in  glasses. 

Unexpected  company  to  luncheon  with  a  lady  who  has 
to  eat  that  meal  alone  generally,  and  (as  is  the  unwise 
way  of  such  ladies)  makes  it  a  yery  slender  meal,  is  one 
of  the  ordeals  of  a  young  housekeeper  ;  company  to  lunch 
and  nothing  in  the  house.  But  there  is  generally  a 
dainty  luncheon  in  eyery  house  if  you  know  how  to  pre- 
pare it ;  there  certainly  always  will  be  if  you  keep  your 
store-room  supplied  with  the  things  I  haye  named.  Let 
the  table  be  prettily  laid  at  all  times,  then  if  you  haye 
potted  meat  and  preserves,  have  them  put  on  the  table. 
Are  there  cold  potatoes?  If  so  cut  them  up  into  potato 
salad,  if  they  are  whole ;  if  broken,  warm  them  in  a 
wine-glass  of  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  a  piece 
as  large  as  an  ^gg  of  maitre  d'^Tiotel  butter.     Have  you 


Luncheon.  45 

sncli  scraps  of  cold  meat  as  could  not  come  to  table?  Toss 
them  up  with  a  hall  cup  of  water^  a  slice  of  glaze  (oh, 
blessed  ever-ready  glaze!)  a  teaspoonful  of  rayigotte,  or 
maitre  d^Mtel,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  roux  or  blanc,  ac- 
cording as  your  meat  is  light  or  dark,  season,  and  serve. 
Or  you  have  no  meat,  then  you  have  eggs,  and  what  bet- 
ter than  an  omelet  and  such  an  omelet  as  the  following? 
Take  the  crumb  of  a  slice  of  bread,  soak  it  in  hot  milk 
(cold  will  do,  but  hot  is  better),  beat  up  whites  of  four 
eggs  to  a  high  froth;  mix  the  bread  with  all  the  milk  it 
will  absorb,  no  more,  into  a  paste,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs 
with  a  little  salt,  set  the  pan  on  the  fire  with  an  ounce  of 
butter.  Let  it  get  very  hot,  then  mix  the  whites  of  eggs 
with  the  yolks  and  bread  lightly,  pour  in  the  pan,  and 
move  about  for  a  minute  ;  if  the  oven  is  hot,  when  the 
omelet  is  brown  underneath,  set  the  pan  in  the  oven 
for  five  minutes,  or  until  the  top  is  set ;  then  double 
half  over,  and  serve.  If  your  guests  have  a  liking  for 
sweets,  and  your  potted  meats  supply  the  savory  part  of 
your  luncheon,  then  have  a  brown  gravy  ready  to  serve 
with  it.  Put  into  a  half  cup  of  boiling  water  a  slice  of 
glaze,  a  spoonful  of  roux,  and  enough  Harvey  sauce,  or 
mushroom  powder,  to  flavor.  If  your  omelet  is  to  be 
sweet,  before  you  fold  it  put  in  a  layer  of  preserves. 

The  advantage  of  the  omelet  I  have  here  given  is 
that  it  keeps  plump  and  tender  till  cold,  so  that  five 
minutes  of  waiting  does  not  turn  it  into  leather,  the 
great  objection  with  omelets  generally. 

Potatoes  for  luncheon,  as  I  have  said,  should  always 
be  prepared  in  some  fancy  way,  and  snow  is  a  very  pretty 
one.  Have  some  fine  mealy  potatoes  boiled,  carefully 
poured  off,  and  set  back  of  the  stove  with  a  cloth  over 
them  till  they  are  quite  dry  and  fall  apart ;  then  have  a 


46  Culture  and  Cooking. 

colander^  or  coarse  wire  sieve  made  liot  and  a  Jiot  dish  in 
which,  to  serve  them,  pass  the  jloury  potatoes  through 
the  sieve,  taking  care  not  to  crush  the  snow  as  it  falls. 
You  require  a  large  dish  heaping  full,  and  be  careful 
it  is  kept  hot. 

This  mode  of  preparing  potatoes,  although  very  pretty 
and  novel,  must  never  be  attempted  with  any  but  the 
whitest  and  mealiest  kind. 

The  remains  of  cold  potatoes  may  be  prepared  thus: 
Put  three  ounces  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan  in  which  fry 
three  onions  sliced  till  tender,  but  not  very  brown,  then 
put  on  the  potatoes  cut  in  slices,  and  shake  them  till 
they  are  of  a  nice  brown  color,  put  a  spoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  salt,  pepper,  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  shake  well 
that  all  raay  mix  together,  dish,  and  serve  very  hot. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

A   CHAPTER   0^   GENERAL   MAI^AGEME:N^T   IK   VERY 
SMALL   FAMILIES. 

A  VERY  small  family,  ''a  young  menage,'^  for  in- 
stance, is  very  much  more  difficult  to  cater  for  without 
waste  than  a  larger  one;  two  people  are  so  apt  to  get  tired 
of  anything,  be  it  ever  so  good  eating,  when  it  has  been 
on  the  table  once  or  twice;  therefore  it  would  be  useless 
to  make  galantine  or  the  large  pies  I  have  indicated,  ex- 
cept for  occasions  when  guests  are  expected ;  but,  as  I 
hope  to  aid  young  housekeepers  to  have  nice  dishes  when 
alone,  I  will  devote  this  chapter  to  their  needs. 

The  chapter  on  ''Warming  Over "  will  be  very  useful 
also  to  this  large  class. 

In  the  first  place  it  is  well  to  have  regard,  when  part 
of  a  dish  leaves  the  table,  as  to  whether  it,  or  any  partic- 
ular part  of  it,  will  make  a  nice  little  cold  dish,  or  a  re- 
chauffe; in  that  case  have  it  saved,  unless  it  is  required 
for  the  servants'  dinner  (it  is  well  to  manage  so  that  it  is 
not  needed  for  that  purpose);  for  instance,  if  there  is  the 
wing  and  a  slice  or  two  of  the  breast  of  a  chicken  left,  it 
will  make  a  dainty  little  breakfast  dish,  or  cold,  in  jelly, 
be  nice  for  lunch.  There  is  always  jelly  if  you  have 
roast  chicken,  if  you  manage  properly,  and  this  is  how 
you  do  it  : 

Carefully  save  the  feet,  throat,  gizzard,  and  liver  of 
your  chickens;  scald  the  feet  by  pouring  boiling  water 

47 


48  Culture  and  Cooking. 

over  them;  leave  them  just  a  minute,  and  pull  off  the 
outer  skin  and  nails;  they  come  away  very  readily,  leav- 
ing the  feet  delicately  white;  put  these  with  the  other 
giblets,  properly  cleansed,  into  a  small  saucepan  with  an 
onion,  a  slice  of  carrot,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  and  a  pint  of 
water  (if  you  have  the  giblets  of  one  chicken),  if  of 
two,  put  a  quart;  let  this  slowly  simmer  for  two  hours 
and  a  half;  it  will  be  reduced  to  about  half,  and  form  a 
stiff  jelly  when  cold;  a  glass  of  sherry,  and  squeeze  of 
lemon,  or  teaspoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar,  makes  this 
into  a  delicious  aspic,  and  should  be  added  if  to  be  eaten 
cold.     The  jelly  must  of  course  be  strained. 

In  roasting  chickens,  if  you  follow  the  rule  for  meat, 
that  is,  put  no  water  in  the  pan,  but  a  piece  of  butter,  and 
dredge  a  very  little  flour  over  the  chicken,  you  will  have 
a  nice  brown  glaze  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  provided 
it  has  been  cooked  in  a  quich  oven;  if  in  a  cool  oven 
there  will  be  nothing  brown  at  all ;  but  we  will  suppose 
the  bird  is  browned  to  a  turn  ;  pour  your  gravy  from  the 
giblets  into  the  pan,  take  off  every  bit  of  the  glaze  or 
osmazone  that  adheres,  and  let  it  dissolve,  rubbing  it 
with  the  back  of  the  spoon ;  then,  if  you  are  likely  to 
have  any  chicken  left  cold,  pour  off  a  little  gravy  in  a 
cup  through  a  fine  strainer,  leaving  in  your  pan  suffi- 
cient for  the  dinner  ;  in  this  mash  up  the  liver  till  it  is 
a  smooth  paste  which  thickens  the  gravy,  and  serve. 
Some  object  to  liver,  therefore  the  use  of  it  is  a  matter 
of  taste.  If  you  dress  the  chickens  English  fashion,  you 
will  need  the  liver  and  gizzard  to  tuck  under  the  wings  ; 
in  this  case,  stew  only  the  feet  and  throat,  using  a  little 
meat  of  any  kind,  if  you  have  it,  to  take  their  place  ; 
but  on  no  account  fail  to  use  the  feet,  as  they  are  as  rich 
in  jelly  as  calves'  feet  in  proportion  to  their  size. 


General  Management  in  Small  Families.      49 

The  jelly  laid  aside  will  be  enough  to  ornament  and 
give  relish  to  a  little  dish  of  cold  chicken,  and  changes 
it  from  a  dry  and  commonplace  thing  to  a  reciter cM  one. 
If  two  chickens  are  cooked  it  is  more  economical  than 
one  ;  there  is,  then,  double  the  amount  of  gravy,  gener- 
ally sufficient,  if  you  lay  some  very  nice  pieces  of  cold 
chicken  in  a  bowl,  to  pour  over  it  and  leave  it  enveloped 
in  jelly ;  you  still  then,  if  from  dinner  for  two  people, 
have  perhaps  joints  enough  to  make  a  dish  of  curry  or 
fricassee,  or  any  of  the  many  ways  in  which  cold  chicken 
may  be  used,  for  which  see  chapter  on  ''Warming  Over.^^ 

For  small  households  large  joints  are  to  be  avoided, 
but  even  a  small  roast  is  a  large  joint  when  there  are  but 
two  or  three  to  eat  it.  For  this  reason  it  is  a  good  plan 
to  buy  such  joints  as  divide  well.  A  sirloin  of  beef  is 
better  made  into  two  fine  dishes  than  into  one  roast, 
and  then  warmed  over  twice.  Every  one  knows  that 
''Filet  de  hceuf  Chateaubriand^^  is  one  of  the  classical 
dishes  of  the  French  table,  that  to  a  Frenchman  luxury 
can  go  no  further ;  but  every  one  does  not  know  how 
entirely  within  his  power  it  is  to  have  that  dish  as  often 
as  he  has  roast  beef ;  how  convenient  it  would  be  to  so 
have  it.  Here  it  is  :  When  your  sirloin  roast  comes  from 
the  butcher,  take  out  the  tenderloin  or  fillets,  which  you 
must  always  choose  thick ;  cut  it  across  into  steaks  an 
inch  thick,  trim  them,  cover  them  with  a  coat  of  butter 
(or  oil,  which  is  much  better),  and  broil  them  ten  min- 
utes, turning  them  often  ;  garnish  with  fried  potatoes, 
and  serve  with  miice  Chateaubriand,  as  follows  :  Put  a 
gill  of  white  wine  (or  claret  will  do  if  you  have  no 
white)  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  piece  of  glaze,  weighing 
an  ounce  and  a  half ;  add  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of 
espagnoUy  and  simmer  fifteen  minutes ;  when  ready  to 
8 


50  Culture  and  Cooking. 

serye,  thicken  with  two  ounces  of  maitre  dHiotel  butter 
in  which  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour  has  been  worked. 
That  is  how  Jules  Gouff  e's  recipe  runs  ;  but,  as  no  small 
family  will  keep  espagnole  ready  made,  allow  a  little  more 
glaze  (of  course  the  recipe  as  giyen  may  be  divided  to 
half  or  quarter,  provided  the  correct  proportions  are 
retained),  and  use  a  tablespoonful  of  roux  and  the  maitre 
dliotel  butter,  both  of  which  you  have  probably  in  your 
store-room  ;  if  not,  brown  a  little  flour,  chop  some  pars- 
ley, and  add  to  two  ounces  of  butter ;  work  them  to- 
gether, then  let  them  dissolve  in  the  sauce,  for  which 
purpose  let  it  go  off  the  boil ;  let  the  sauce  simmer  a 
minute,  skim,  and  serve. 

The  sirloin  of  beef,  denuded  of  its  fillet,  is  still  a  good 
roast ;  and  as  you  can't  have  your  cake  and  eat  it  too, 
and  hot  fresh  roast  beef  is  better  than  the  same  warmed 
over,  warm  ye  never  so  wisely,  I  think  this  plan  may 
commend  itself  to  those  who  like  nice  little  dinners. 

A  nice  little  dinner  of  a  soup,  an  entree,  or  made  dish, 
salad,  and  dessert,  really  costs  no  more  than  frequent 
roast  meat,  or  even  steak  and  pudding,  by  following 
some  such  plan  as  this  : 

Sunday. — Pot-au-feu  and  roast  lamb,  leg  of  mutton 
or  other  good  joint,  etc. 

Monday. — Rice  or  vermicelli  soup  made  with  remains 
of  the  houillon  from  pot-au-feu.  If  the  Sunday  joint 
was  a  fore  or  hindquarter  of  lamb  it  should  have  been 
divided,  say  the  leg  from  the  loin,  thus  providing  choice 
roasts  for  two  days,  and  yet  having  enough  cold  lamb — 
that  favorite  dish  with  so  many — for  luncheon  with  a  sal- 
ad ;  and,  surprising  to  say,'  after  hot  roast  lamb  for  dinner 
Sunday,  cold  lunch  for  Monday,  another  roast  Monday, 
and  cold  or  warmed  up  for  lunch  Tuesday,  there  will 


General  Management  in  Small  Families.       5 1 

still  be  (supposing  as  I  do,  in  preparing  this  chapter, 
that  the  family  consists  only  of  gentleman,  lady,  and  ser- 
yant)  remains  enough  from  the  two  cold  joints  to  make 
cromesquis  of  lamb  (see  recipe),  a  little  dish  of  mince,  or 
a  delicate  saute  of  lamb  for  breakfast.  It  is  surprising 
what  may  be  done  with  odds  and  ends  in  a  small  fam- 
ily ;  a  tiny  plate  of  pieces,  far  too  small  to  make  an  ap- 
pearance on  the  table,  and  which,  if  special  directions 
are  not  given,  will  seem  to  Bridget  not  worth  saying, 
will,  with  each  piece  dipped  into  the  batter  a  la  Careme, 
and  fried  in  hot  fat,  make  a  tempting  dish  for  breakfast, 
or  an  entree  for  dinner  or  luncheon.  Two  tablespoonfuls 
only  of  chopped  meat  of  any  kind  will  make  croquettes 
for  two  or  three  people  ;  hence,  ^  saye  the  pieces.'  But 
to  return  to  our  bills  of  fare  :  I  have  giyen  the  two  roasts 
of  lamb  for  consecutiye  days,  because  the  weather  in 
lamb  season  is  usually  too  warm  to  keep  it ;  when  this 
can  be  done,  howeyer,  it  is  pleasanter  to  leaye  the  second 
joint  of  lamb  till  Tuesday.  Should  a  forequarter  (abroad 
held  in  greater  esteem  than  the  hindquarter)  haye  been 
chosen,  get  the  butcher  to  take  out  the  shoulder  in  one 
round  thick  joint,  English  fashion ;  this  crisply  roasted 
is  far  more  delicious  than  the  leg ;  you  then  haye  the 
chops  to  be  breaded,  and  an  excellent  dish  of  the  neck 
and  breast,  either  broiled,  curried,  stewed  with  peas,  or 
roast. 

Yet  how  often  we  see  a  whole  quarter  of  lamb  put  in 
the  oyen  for  two  or  three  people  who  get  tired  of  the 
sight  of  it  cold,  yet  feel  in  economy  bound  to  eat  it. 

Should  sirloin  of  beef  haye  been  the  Sunday  dinner, 
you  will  know  what  to  do  with  it,  from  directions  al- 
ready giyen;  and  as  a  sirloin  of  beef,  eyen  with  the  fillet 
out,  will  be  more  than  required  for  one  dinner,  it  may 


52  Culture  and  Cooking. 

serve  for  a  third  day,  dressed  in  one  of  the  various  ways 
I  shall  give  in  chapter  on  ^^  Warming  Over."  You  have 
still  at  your  disposal  the  bouilli  or  beef  from  which  you 
have  made  your  pot-au-feu,  which,  if  it  has  been  care- 
fully boiled,  not  galloped,  nor  allowed  to  fall  to  rags,  is 
very  good  eating.  Cut  thin  with  lettuce,  or  in  winter 
celery,  in  about  equal  quantities,  and  a  good  salad  dress- 
ing, it  is  excellent;  or,  made  into  hash,  f  ritadella,  or  even 
rissoles,  is  savory  and  delicious  ;  only  bear  in  mind  with 
this,  as  all  cooked  meats,  the  gravy  drawn  out  must  be 
replaced  by  stock  or  glaze  ;  it  is  very  easy  to  warm  over 
bouilli  satisfactorily,  as  a  cup  of  the  soup  made  from  it 
can  always  be  kept  for  gravy. 

A  leg  of  mutton  makes  two  excellent  joints,  and  is 
seldom  liked  cold — as  beef  and  lamb  often  are. 

Select  a  large  fine  leg,  have  it  cut  across,  that  each 
part  may  weigh  about  equally;  roast  the  thick  or  fillet  end 
and  serve  with  or  without  onion  sauce  {a  la  souMse) ; 
boil  the  knuckle  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  just 
enough  to  cover  it,  with  a  carrot,  turnip,  onion,  and 
bunch  of  parsley,  and  salt  in  the  water,  serve  with  caper 
sauce  and  mashed  turnips.  The  broth  from  this  is  ex- 
cellent soup  served  thus  :  Skim  it  carefully,  take  out 
the  vegetables,  and  chop  a  small  quantity  of  parsley  very 
fine,  then  beat  up  in  a  bowl  two  eggs,  pour  into  them  a 
little  of  the  broth — not  boiling — beating  all  the  time, 
then  draw  your  soup  back  till  it  is  off  the  boil,  and  pour 
in  the  eggs,  stirring  continually  till  it  is  on  the  boiling 
point  again  (but  it  must  not  boil,  or  the  eggs  will  cur- 
dle and  spoil  the  soup),  and  then  turn  it  into  a  hot  tureen 
and  serve.  Use  remains  of  the  cold  roast  and  boiled  mut- 
ton together,  to  make  made  dishes;  between  the  days  of 
having  the  roast  and  boiled  mutton  you  may  have  had  a 


General  Management  in  Small  Families,       53 

fowl,  and  the  remains  from  that  will  make  you  a  second 
dish  to  go  with  your  joint. 

The  remains  from  the  first  cooked  mutton,  in  form 
of  curry,  mince,  salmi,  or  sauU^  will  be  a  second  dish 
with  your  fowl. 

Veal  is  one  of  the  most  convenient  things  to  have  for 
a  small  family,  as  it  warms  oyer  in  a  variety  of  ways,  and 
in  some  is  actually  better  than  when  put  on  the  table  as 
a  joint.  By  having  a  little  fish  one  day,  instead  of  soup, 
and  a  little  game  another,  and  remembering  when  you 
have  an  especially  dainty  thing,  to  have  one  with  it  a 
little  more  substantial  and  less  costly,  you  may  have  vari- 
ety at  little  expense. 

For  instance,  if  you  find  it  convenient  to  have  for  din- 
ner fritadelle  (see  ''  Warming  Over''^)  or  miroton  of  beef, 
or  cold  mutton  curried,  you  might  have  broiled  birds,  or 
roast  pigeon,  or  game.  In  this  consists  good  manage- 
ment, to  live  so  that  the  expenses  of  one  day  balance 
those  of  the  other — unless  you  are  so  happily  situated 
that  expense  is  a  small  matter,  in  which  case  these  re- 
marks will  not  apply  to  you  at  all.  Then,  never  mind 
warming  over,  or  making  one  joint  into  two;  let  your 
poor  neighbors  and  Bridget's  friends  enjoy  your  superflu- 
ity. To  the  woman  with  a  moderate  income  it  usually 
is  a  matter  of  importance,  or  ought  to  be,  that  her 
weekly  expenditure  should  not  exceed  a  certain  amount, 
and  for  this  she  must  arrange  that  any  extra  expense  is 
balanced  by  a  subsequent  economy. 

Salads  add  much  to  the  health  and  elegance  of  a  din- 
ner ;  it  is  in  early  spring  an  expensive  item  if  lettuce  is 
used;  but  no  salad  can  be  more  delicious  or  more  health- 
ful than  dressed  celery;  and  by  buying  when  cheap,  ar- 
ranging with  a  man  to  lay  in  your  cellar,  covered  with 


54  Culture  and  Cooking. 

soil^  enough  for  the  winter's  use,  it  need  cost  but  moder- 
ately. Celeraic,  or  turnip-rooted  celery  is  another  salad 
that  is  yery  popular  with  our  German  friends;  it  is  a 
bulbous  celery,  the  root  being  the  part  eaten  ;  these  are 
cooked  like  potatoes,  cut  in  slices,  and  dressed  with  oil 
and  yinegar,  or  mayonnaise,  it  is  exceedingly  good. 
Potato  salad  is  always  procurable,  and  in  summer  at 
lunch,  instead  of  the  hot  yegetable,  or  in  winter  when 
green  salad  is  dear,  is  yery  yaluable.  It  may  be  yaried 
by  the  addition,  one  day,  of  a  few  chopped  pickles,  an- 
other, a  little  onion,  or  celery,  or  parsley,  or  tarragon,  a 
little  rayigotte  butter  beaten  to  cream  with  the  yinegar^ 
or  with  meat,  as  follows  :  Boil  the  potatoes  in  their  skins, 
peel  them,  cut  them  into  pieces  twice  the  thickness 
of  a  fifty-cent  piece,  and  put  them  into  a  salad  bowl  with 
cold  meat  (bouilli  from  soup  is  excellent)  ;  put  to  them 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  that  quantity  of  pepper,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  yinegar,  three  or  eyen  four  of  oil,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  You  can  yary  this  by 
putting  at  different  times  some  chopped  celery  or  pickles, 
oliyes,  or  anchoyies. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

OK   FRYING   Ai^D   BROILIl^^^G. 

Pryh^tg  is  one  of  the  operations  in  cookery  in  which 
there  are  more  failures  than  any  other^  or^  at  least,  there 
appear  to  be  more,  because  the  failure  is  always  so  very 
apparent.  Nothing  can  make  a  dish  of  breaded  cutlets 
on  which  are  bald  white  spots  look  inviting,  or  livid- 
looking  fish,  just  flaked  here  and  there  with  the  bread 
that  has  been  persuaded  to  stay  on.  And,  provided  you 
have  enough  fat  in  the  pan— there  should  always  be 
enough  to  immerse  the  article  ;  therefore  use  a  deep  iron 
or  enameled  pan — there  can  be  but  two  reasons  why  you 
fail.  Your  fat  has  not  been  hot  enough,  or  your  crumbs 
have  not  been  fine  and  even. 

Many  suppose  when  the  fat  bubbles  and  boils  in  the 
pan  that  it  is  quite  hot  ;  it  is  far  from  being  so.  Others 
again  are  so  much  nearer  the  truth  that  they  know  it 
must  become  silent,  that  is,  boil  and  cease  to  boil,  before 
it  is  ready,  but  even  that  is  not  enough;  it  must  be  silent 
some  time,  smoke,  and  appear  to  be  on  the  point  of  burn- 
ing, then  drop  a  bit  of  bread  in;  if  it  crisps  and  takes 
color  directly,  quickly  put  in  your  articles. 

These  articles,  whether  cutlets  or  fish,  must  have  been 
carefully  prepared,  or  herein  may  lie  the  second  cause  of 
failure.  Any  cookery  book  will  give  you  directions  how 
to  crumb,  follow  them  ;  but  what  some  do  not  tell  you 
is,  that  your  bread-crumbs  should  be  finely  sifted;  every 

55 


56  Culture  and  Cooking, 

coarse  crumb  is  liable  to  drop  off  and  bring  with  it  a 
good  deal  of  the  surrounding  surface. 

I  also  follow  the  French  plan  in  using  the  egg,  and 
mix  with  it  oil  and  water  in  the  proportion  of  three 
eggS;,  one  tablespoonful  of  oil,  one  of  water,  and  a  little 
salt,  beat  together  and  use.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  keep  a 
supply  of  panure  or  dried  bread-crumbs  always  ready. 
Cut  any  slices  of  baker's  bread,  dry  them  in  a  cool  oven 
so  that  they  remain  quite  colorless,  or  they  will  not  do 
for  the  purpose.  When  as  dry  as  crackers,  crush  under 
a  rolling-pin,  and  sift ;  keep  in  a  jar  for  use. 

In  no  branch  of  cooking  is  excellence  more  appreci- 
ated than  in  that  of  frying.  A  dish  of  filets  de  sole  or 
cutlets,  crisp  and  golden  brown,  is  an  ornament  to  any 
table,  and  is  seldom  disdained  by  any  one.  Apropos  of 
filets  de  sole;  it  is  yery  high-sounding  yet  yery  attainable, 
as  I  shall  show.  I  was  staying  with  a  friend  early  in 
spring,  a  lady  always  anxious  for  table  noyelties.  ^'  Oh, 
do  tell  me  what  fish  to  order,  I  should  like  something 
fried,  now  that  you  are  here  to  tell  cook  how  to  do  it ; 
she  hasn't  the  wildest  idea,  although  she  would  be 
astounded  to  hear  me  say  so."  ^^Have  you  eyer 
had  flounders  ?"  I  asked.  ''  Flounders  !"  My  friend's 
pretty  nose  went  up  the  eighth  of  an  inch,  and  her  con- 
fidence in  my  powers  as  counselor  went  down  to  zero. 
^'  Flounders  !  but  they  are  a  yery  common  fish  you 
know."  ^^I  know  they  are  yery  delicious,"  I  answered. 
''  Order  them,  and  trust  me  ;  but  I  must  coax  the 
autocrat  of  your  kitchen  to  allow  me  to  cook  and  pre- 
pare them  myself." 

An  hour  before  dinner  I  went  into  the  kitchen,  put 
at  least  a  pound  of  lard  into  a  deep  frying-pan,  and 
set  it  where  it  would  get  gradually  hot,  then  I  turned 


On  Frying  and  Broiling.  57 

my  attention  to  the  fish  ;  they  were  thick,  firm  floun- 
ders, and  were  ready  cleaned,  scraped,  and  the  heads 
off.  I  then  proceeded  to  bone  one  in  the  following 
way  :  Take  a  sharp  knife  and  split  the  flounder  right 
down  the  middle  of  the  back,  then  run  the  knife  care- 
fully between  the  flesh  and  bones  going  toward  the  edge. 
You  have  now  detached  one  quarter  of  the  flesh  from 
the  bone,  do  the  other  half  in  the  same  way,  and  when 
the  back  is  thus  entirely  loose  from  the  bone,  turn  the 
fish  over  and  do  the  same  with  the  other  part.  You  will 
now  find  you  can  remove  the  bone  whole  from  the  fish, 
detaching,  as  you  do  so,  any  flesh  still  retaining  the 
bone,  then  you  have  two  halves  of  the  fish  ;  cut  away 
the  fins,  and  you  have  four  quarters  of  solid  fish.  Now 
see  if  the  fat  is  very  hot,  set  it  forward  while  you  wipe 
your  fish  dry,  and  dip  each  piece  in  milk,  then  in  flour. 
Try  if  the  fat  is  hot  by  dropping  a  crumb  into  it ;  if  it 
browns  at  once,  put  in  the  fish.  When  they  are  beauti- 
fully brown,  which  will  be  in  about  ten  minutes,  take 
them  up  in  the  colander,  and  then  lay  them  on  a  towel 
to  absorb  any  fat,  lay  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and  garnish 
with  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley  or  celery  tops. 

Now  when  this  dish  made  its  appearance,  my  friend's 
husband,  a  Ion  vivant,  greeted  it  with,  ^^Aha!  Filets 
de  sole  cl  la  Delmonico,^^  and  as  nothing  to  the  con- 
trary was  said  until  dinner  was  over,  he  ate  them  under 
the  impression  that  they  were  veritable  filets  de  sole. 
Of  course  I  can't  pretend  to  say  whether  M.  Delmonico 
imports  his  soles,  or  uses  the  homely  flounder  ;  but  I  do 
know  that  one  of  his  frequenters  knew  no  difference. 

Oysters  should  be  laid  on  a  cloth  to  drain  thoroughly, 
then  rolled  in  fine  sifted  cracker  dust,  and  dropped  into 
very  hot  fat;  do  not  put  more  oysters  in  the  pan  than 


58  Culture  and  Cooking, 

will  fry  without  one  overlapping  the  other.  Very  few 
minutes  will  brown  them  beautifully,  if  your  fat  was  hot 
enough,  and  as  a  minute  too  long  toughens  and  shrinks 
them,  be  yery  careful  that  it  browns  a  cube  of  bread  al- 
most directly,  before  you  begin  the  oysters.  Egg  and 
bread-crumb  may  be  used  instead  of  cracker  dust,  but  it 
is  not  the  proper  thing,  and  is  a  great  deal  more  trouble. 
Should  you  be  desirous  of  using  it,  however,  the  oysters 
must  be  carefully  wiped  dry  before  dipping  them;  while 
for  cracker  dust  they  are  not  wiped,  but  only  drained 
well. 

Fish  of  any  kind,  fried  in  batter  a  la  Careme  (see 
recipe),  is  very  easy  to  do,  and  very  nice. 

Carefully  save  veal,  lamb,  beef,  and  pork  drippings. 
Keep  a  crock  to  put  it  in,  and,  clarified  as  I  shall  direct, 
it  is  much  better  than  lard  for  many  purposes,  and  for 
frying  especially  ;  it  does  not  leave  the  dark  look  that  is 
sometimes  seen  on  articles  fried  in  lard.  The  perfection 
of  ^^friture,'^  or  frying-fat,  according  to  Gouffe,  is  equal 
parts  of  lard  and  beef  fat  melted  together. 

Yet  there  are  families  where  dripping  is  never  used — 
is  looked  upon  as  unfit  to  use — while  the  truth  is  that 
many  persons  quite  unable  to  eat  articles  fried  in  lard 
would  find  no  inconvenience  from  those  fried  in  beef  fat. 
It  is  as  wholesome  as  butter,  and  far  better  for  the 
purpose.  Butter,  indeed,  is  only  good  for  frying  such 
things  as  omelets  or  scrambled  eggs ;  things  that  are 
cooked  in  a  very  short  time,  and  require  no  great  degree 
of  heat. 

The  same  may  be  said  of  oil,  than  which,  for  fish, 
nothing  can  be  better.  Yet  it  can  only  be  used  once, 
and  is  unsuitable  for  things  requiring  long-sustained 
heat,  as  it  soon  gets  bitter  and  rank. 


On  Frying  and  Broiling.  59 

Do  not  be  afraid  to  put  a  pound  or  two  of  fat  in  your 
pan  for  frying ;  it  is  quite  as  economical  as  to  put  less 
for  it  can  be  used  over  and  oyer  again^  a  pail  or  crock 
being  kept  for  the  purpose  of  receiving  it.  Always  in 
returning  it  to  the  crobk  pour  it  through  a  fine  strainer, 
so  that  no  sediment  or  brown  particles  may  pass  which 
would  spoil  the  next  frying. 

To  clarify  dripping,  when  poured  from  the  meat-pan, 
it  should  go  into  a  bowl,  instead  of  the  crock  in  which 
you  wish  to  keep  it.  Then  pour  into  the  bowl  also  some 
boiling  water,  and  add  a  little  salt,  stir  it,  and  set  it 
away.  Next  day,  or  when  cold,  run  a  knife  round  the 
bowl,  and  (unless  it  is  pork)  it  will  turn  out  in  a  solid 
cake,  leaving  the  water  and  impurities  at  the  bottom. 
Now  scrape  the  bottom  of  your  dripping,  and  put  it  in 
more  boiling  water  till  it  melts,  then  stir  again,  another 
pinch  of  salt  add,  and  let  it  cool  again.  When  you  take 
off  the  cake  of  fat,  scrape  it  as  before,  and  it  is  ready  to 
be  melted  into  the  general  crock,  and  will  now  keep  for 
months  in  cool  weather.  If  you  are  having  frequent 
joints  it  is  as  well  to  do  all  your  dripping  together,  once 
a  week ;  but  do  not  leave  it  long  at  any  season  with  wa- 
ter under  it,  as  that  would  taint  it.  Fat  skimmed  from 
boiled  meat,  pot-au-feu,  before  the  vegetables,  etc.,  go 
in,  is  quite  as  good  as  that  from  roast,  treated  in  the 
same  way. 

Frying  in  batter  is  very  easy  and  excellent  for  some 
things,  such  as  warming  over  meat,  being  far  better 
than  eggs  and  crumbs.  Careme  gives  the  following 
recipe,  which  is  excellent : 

Three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour,  mixed  with 
two  ounces  of  butter  melted  in  warm  water ;  blow  the 
butter  off  the  water  into  the  flour  first,  then  enough  of 


6o  Culture  and  Cooking. 

the  water  to  make  a  soft  paste^  which  beat  smooth,  then 
more  warm  water  till  it  is  batter  thick  enough  to  mask 
the  back  of  a  spoon  dipped  into  it,  and  salt  to  taste ;  add 
the  last  thing  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten. 

Another  batter,  called  a  la  Provenqale^  is  also  exceed- 
ingly good,  especially  for  articles  a  little  dry  in  them- 
selyes,  such  as  chickens  to  be  warmed  oyer,  slices  of  cold 
yea],  etc. 

Take  same  quantity  of  flour,  two  yolks  of  eggs,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  mix  with  cold  water,  and  add 
whites  of  eggs  and  salt  as  before.  Into  this  batter  I 
sometimes  put  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  the  least  bit 
of  powdered  thyme,  or  grated  lemon-peel,  or  nutmeg ; 
this  is,  howeyer,  only  a  matter  of  taste. 

Bkoili:n"G  is  the  simplest  of  all  forms  of  cooking,  and 
is  essentially  English.  To  broil  well  is  yery  easy  with 
a  little  attention.  A  brisk  clear  fire,  not  too  high  in 
the  stoye,  is  necessary  to  do  it  with  ease  ;  yet  if,  as 
must  sometimes  happen,  to  meet  the  necessities  of  other 
cooking,  your  fire  is  yery  large,  carefully  fix  the  gridiron 
on  two  bricks  or  in  any  conyenient  manner,  to  preyent 
the  meat  scorching,  then  haye  the  gridiron  very  liot  be- 
fore putting  your  meat  upon  it ;  turn  it,  if  chop  or 
steak,  as  soon  as  the  grayy  begins  to  start  on  the  upper 
side  ;  if  allowed  to  remain  without  turning  long,  the 
grayy  forms  a  pool  on  the  top,  which,  when  turned,  falls 
into  the  fire  and  is  lost ;  the  action  of  the  heat,  if  turned 
quickly,  seals  the  pores  and  the  grayy  remains  in  the 
meat.  If  the  fire  is  not  yery  clear,  put  a  coyer  oyer  the 
meat  on  the  gridiron,  it  will  preyent  its  blackening  or 
burning — if  the  article  is  thick  I  always  do  so — and  it  is 
an  especially  good  plan  with  birds  or  chickens,  which 
are  apt  to  be  raw  at  the  joints  unless  this  is  done ;  in- 


On  Frying  and  Broiling,  6i 

deed,  with  the  latter,  I  think  it  a  good  way  to  put  them 
in  a  hot  oven  ten  minutes  before  they  go  on  to  broil, 
then  have  a  spoonful  of  mditre  d^Mtel  butter  to  lay  on 
the  breast  of  each.  Young  spring  chickens  are  some- 
times yery  dry,  in  which  case  dip  them  in  melted  but- 
ter, or,  better  still,  oil  them  all  over  a  little  while  be- 
fore cooking.  There  is  nothing  more  unsightly  than  a 
sprawling  dish  of  broiled  chickens  ;  therefore,  in  prepar- 
ing them  place  them  in  good  form,  then,  with  a  gentle 
blow  of  the  rolling-pin,  break  the  bones  that  they  may 
remain  so. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 
roasti;n^g. 

I]^  spite  of  Brillat-Sayarin's  maxim  tliat  one  may  be- 
come a  cook,  but  must  be  born  a  rotisseur,  I  am  inclined 
to  think  one  may  also,  by  remembering  one  or  two 
things,  become  a  very  good  ^^ roaster'^  (to  translate  the 
untranslatable),  especially  in  our  day,  when  the  oyen  has 
taken  the  place  of  the  spit,  although  a  great  deal  of 
meat  is  spoiled  in  roasting ;  a  loin  of  lamb  or  piece  of 
beef,  that  comes  to  the  table  so  pale  that  you  can't  tell 
whether  it  has  been  boiled  or  merely  wilted  in  the  oven, 
is  an  aggravation  so  familiar,  that  a  rich  brown,  well- 
roasted  joint  is  generally  a  surprise.  Perhaps  the  cook 
will  tell  you  she  has  had  the  ^^ hottest  kind  of  an  oyen;" 
but  then  she  has  probably  also  had  a  well  of  water 
underneath  it,  the  yapor  from  which,  arising  all  the 
time,  has  effectually  soddened  the  meat,  and  checked 
the  browning.  The  surface  of  roast  meat  should  be 
coyered  with  a  rich  glaze,  scientifically  called  ^^osma- 
zone/^  That  the  meat  may  be  thus  glazed,  it  should 
always  go  into  a  hot  oyen,  so  that,  as  the  grayy  exudes, 
it  may  congeal  on  the  outside,  thus  sealing  up  the  pores. 
The  general  plan,  howeyer,  is  to  put  meat  into  a  warm 
oyen  an  hour  or  two  earlier  than  it  should  go,  with  a 
quantity  of  water  and  flour  underneath  it.  The  result  in 
hot  weather  I  haye  known  to  be  yery  disagreeable,  the 
tepid  oyen  haying,  in  fact,  giyen  a  stale  taste  to  the  joint 

62 


Roasting.  63 

before  it  began  to  cook,  and  it  at  all  times  results  in 
flayorless,  tough  meat.  There  is  no  time  saved,  either, 
in  putting  the  meat  in  while  the  oyen  is  yet  cool.  Heat 
up  the  oyen  till  it  is  quite  brisk,  then  put  the  meat  in  a 
pan,  in  which,  if  it  is  fat,  you  require  no  water  ;  if  yery 
lean,  you  may  put  half  a  teacup,  just  enough  to  preyent 
the  pan  burning  ;  you  may  rub  a  little  flour  oyer  the 
joint  or  not,  as  you  please,  but  neyer  more  than  the  sur- 
face moisture  absorbs  ;  haye  no  clinging  particles  of 
flour  upon  the  joint,  neither  put  salt  nor  pepper  upon 
the  meat  before  it  goes  into  the  oyen  ;  salt  draws  out  the 
grayy,  which  it  is  your  object  to  keep  in,  and  the  flay  or 
of  pepper  is  entirely  changed  by  the  parching  it  undergoes 
when  on  the  surface  of  the  meat,  the  odor  of  scorched 
pepper,  while  cooking,  being  yery  offensiye  to  refined 
nostrils.  This  does  not  occur  when  pepper  is  not  on 
the  surface ;  for  the  inside  of  birds,  in  stuffing,  and  in 
meat  pies  it  is  indispensable,  and  the  flayor  undergoes 
no  change.  This  remark  on  pepper  applies  also  to 
broiling  and  frying.  Always  pepper  after ^q  article  is 
cooked,  and  both  for  appearance  and  delicacy  of  flayor 
white  pepper  should  always  be  used  in  preference  to 
black. 

Meat,  while  in  the  oyen,  should  be  carefully  turned 
about  so  that  it  may  brown  equally,  and  when  it  has 
been  in  half  the  time  you  intend  to  giye  it,  or  when  the 
upper  surface  is  well  browned,  turn  it  oyer.  When  it 
comes  out  of  the  oyen  put  it  on  a  hot  dish,  then  care- 
fully pour  off  the  fat  by  holding  the  corner  of  the  meat 
pan  oyer  your  dripping-pan,  and  yery  gently  allowing 
the  fat  to  run  off  ;  do  not  shake  it ;  when  you  see  the 
thick  brown  sediment  beginning  to  run  too,  check  it ;  if 
there  is  still  much  fat  on  the  surface,  take  it  off  with  a 


64  Culture  and  Cooking. 

spoon  ;  then  pour  into  the  pan  a  little  boiling  water  and 
salt,  in  quantity  according  to  the  quantity  of  sediment 
or  glaze  in  the  pan,  and  with  a  spoon  rub  off  every  speck 
of  the  dried  gravy  on  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  pan. 
Add  no  flour,  the  gravy  must  be  thick  enough  with  its 
own  richness.  If  you  have  added  too  much  water,  so 
that  it  looks  poor,  you  may  always  boil  it  down  by  set- 
ting the  pan  on  the  stove  for  a  few  minutes  ;  but  it  is 
better  to  put  very  little  water  at  first,  and  add  as  the 
richness  of  the  gravy  allows.  Now  you  have  a  rich 
brown  gravy,  instead  of  the  thick  whitey-brown  broth 
so  often  served  with  roast  meat.  Every  drop  of  this 
gravy  and  that  from  the  dish  should  be  carefully  saved 
if  left  over. 

Save  all  dripping,  except  from  mutton  or  meat  with 
which  onions  are  cooked,  for  purposes  which  I  shall 
indicate  in  another  place. 

Veal  and  pork  require  to  be  very  thoroughly  cooked. 
For  them,  therefore,  the  oven  must  not  be  too  hot,  nei- 
ther must  it  be  lukewarm,  a  good  even  heat  is  best ;  if 
likely  to  get  too  brown  before  it  is  thoroughly  cooked, 
open  the  oven  door. 


CHAPTEE  IX. 

B0ILI2!^G. 

BoiLi:N'a  is  one  of  the  things  about  which  cooks  are 
most  careless  ;  theoretically  they  almost  always  know 
meat  should  be  slowly  boiled,  but  their  idea  of  ^^slow  '^  is 
ruled  by  the  fire  ;  they  neyer  attempt  to  rule  that.  There 
is  a  good  rule  giyen  by  Gouffe  as  to  what  slow  boiling 
actually  is :  the  surface  of  the  pot  should  only  show 
signs  of  ebullition  at  one  side^  just  an  occasional  bubble. 
Simmering  is  a  still  slower  process,  and  in  this  the  pot 
should  have  only  a  sizzling  round  one  part  of  the  edge. 
All  fresh  meat  should  boil  slowly ;  ham  or  corn  beef 
should  barely  simmer.  Yet  they  must  not  go  off  the 
boil  at  all,  which  would  spoil  fresh  meat  entirely  ;  steep- 
ing in  water  gives  a  flat,  insipid  taste. 

AW.  vegetables  except  potatoes,  asparagus,  peas,  and 
cauliflower  should  boil  as  fast  as  possible  ;  these  four 
only  moderately.  Most  vegetables  are  boiled  far  too  long. 
Cabbage  is  as  delicate  as  cauliflower  in  the  summer  and 
fall  if  boiled  in  plenty  of  water,  to  which  a  salt  spoon- 
ful of  soda  has  been  added,  ^^fast  as  possible  for  twenty 
minutes  or  half  an  hour,  then  drained  and  dressed.  In 
winter  it  should  be  cut  in  six  or  eight  pieces,  boiled /(^5^, 
in  plenty  of  water,  for  half  an  hour,  no  longer.  Always 
give  it  plenty  of  room,  let  the  water  boil  rapidly  when 
you  put  it  in  the  pot,  which  set  on  the  hottest  part  of 

65 


(>&  Culture  and  Cooking. 

the  fire  to  come  to  that  point  again^  and  you  will  have  no 
more  strong,  rank,  yellow  stuff  on  your  table,  no  bad  odor 
in  your  house.  Peas  require  no  more  than  twenty  minutes' 
boiling  if  young  ;  asparagus  the  same  ;  the  latter  should 
always  be  boiled  in  a  saucepan  deep  enough  to  let  it 
stand  up  in  the  water  when  tied  up  in  bunches,  for  this 
saves  the  heads.  Potatoes  should  be  poured  off  the 
minute  they  are  done,  and  allowed  to  stand  at  the  back  of 
the  stove  with  a  clean  cloth  folded  over  them.  They  are 
the  only  vegetable  that  should  be  put  into  cold  water. 
When  new,  boiling  water  is  proper.  When  quite  ripe 
they  are  more  floury  if  put  in  cold  water. 

Soups. — As  I  have  before  said,  I  do  not  pretend  to  give 
many  recipes,  only  to  tell  you  how  to  succeed  with  the 
recipes  given  in  other  books.  I  shall,  therefore,  only 
give  one  recipe  which  I  know  is  a  novelty  and  one  for  the 
foundation  of  all  soups.  In  one  sense  I  have  done  the 
latter  already.  The  stock  for  glaze  is  an  excellent  soup 
before  it  is  reduced  ;  but  T  will  also  give  Jules  Gouffe's 
method  of  making  pot-au-feu^  it  being  a  most  beautifully 
clear  soup. 

It  often  happens,  however,  that  you  have  sufficient 
stock  from  bones,  trimmings  of  meat,  and  odds  and  ends 
of  gravies,  which  may  always  be  turned  to  account ;  but 
the  stock  from  such  a  source,  although  excellent,  will 
not  always  be  clear  ;  therefore,  you  must  proceed  with  it 
in  the  following  manner,  unless  you  wish  to  use  it  for 
thick  soup  : 

Make  your  stock  boiling  hot  and  skim  well ;  then  have 
ready  the  whites  of  three  eggs  (I  am  supposing  you 
have  three  quarts  of  stock — one  egg  to  a  quart),  to  which 
add  half  a  pint  of  cold  water  ;  whisk  well  together  ;  then 
add  half  a  pint  of  the  boiling  stock  gradually,  still  whisk- 


Boiling,  6y 

ing  the  eggs  ;  then  stir  the  boiling  stock  rapidly,  pouring 
in  the  whites  of  eggs,  etc. ;  as  you  do  it,  stir  quickly  till 
nearly  boiling  again,  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  let  it  re- 
main till  the  whites  of  eggs  separate  ;  then  strain  through 
a  clean,  fine  cloth  into  a  basin.  This  rule  once  learned 
will  clear  every  kind  of  soup  or  jelly. 

There  are  many  people  who  are  good  cooks,  yet  fail  in 
clear  soup,  which  is  with  them  semi-opaque,  while  it 
should  be  like  sherry.  The  cause  of  this  opacity  is  gen- 
erally quick  boiling  while  the  meat  is  in.  This  gives  it 
a  milky  appearance.  After  the  stock  is  once  made  and 
clear,  quick  boiling  will  do  no  harm,  but  of  course  wastes 
the  soup,  unless  resorted  to  for  the  purpose  of  making  it 
stronger.  A  word  here  about  coloring  soup  :  Most  per- 
sons resort  to  burnt  sugar,  and,  very  carefully  used,  it  is 
not  at  all  a  bad  makeshift.  But  how  often  have  we  a 
rich-looking  soup  put  before  us,  the  vermicelli  appear- 
ing to  repose  under  a  lake  of  strong  russet  iouillon,  but 
which,  on  tasting,  we  find  suggestive  of  nothing  but 
burnt  sugar  and  salt,  every  bit  of  flavor  destroyed  by  the 
acrid  coloring.  Sometimes  stock  made  by  the  recipe  for 
pot-au-feu  (to  follow)  requires  no  color  ;  this  depends 
on  the  beef  ;  but  usually  all  soup  is  more  appetizing  in 
appearance  for  a  little  browning,  and  for  this  purpose  I 
always  use  burnt  onions  in  preference  to  anything  else. 
If  you  have  none  in  store  when  the  soup  is  put  on,  put 
a  small  onion  in  the  oven  (or  on  the  back  of  the  stove ; 
should  you  be  baking  anything  the  odor  would  taint)  ; 
turn  it  often  till  it  gets  quite  black,  but  not  charred. 
Then  put  it  to  the  soup  ;  it  adds  a  fine  flavor  as  well  as 
color,  and  you  need  not  fear  overdoing  it. 

Soup  that  is  to  be  reduiced  must  be  very  lightly  salted; 
for  this  reason  salt  is  left  out  altogether  for  glaze,  as  the 


68  Culture  and  Cooking, 

reduction  causes  the  water  only  to  evaporate,  the  salt 
remains. 

Gouffe's  Pot-au-Feu. — Four  pounds  of  lean  beef, 
six  quarts  of  water^  six  ounces  of  carrot,  six  of  turnip, 
six  of  onion,  half  an  ounce  of  celery,  one  cloye,  salt. 

Put  the  meat  on  in  cold  water,  and  just  before  it 
comes  to  the  boil  skim  it,  and  throw  in  a  wineglass  of 
cold  water,  skim  again,  and,  when  it  is  '^  on  the  boil," 
again  throw  in  another  wineglass  of  cold  water  ;  do  this 
two  or  three  times.  The  object  of  adding  the  cold  water 
is  to  keep  it  just  off  the  boil  until  all  the  scum  has  risen, 
as  the  boiling  point  is  when  it  comes  to  the  surface,  yet 
once  having  boiled,  the  scum  is  broken  up,  and  the  soup 
is  never  so  clear. 

The  meat  must  simmer  slowly,  not  loil,  for  three 
hours  before  the  vegetables  are  added,  then  for  a  couple 
of  hours  more. 

It  is  necessary  to  be  very  exact  in  the  proportions  of 
vegetables ;  but,  of  course,  after  having  weighed  them  for 
soups  once  or  twice,  you  will  get  to  know  about  the  size 
of  a  carrot,  turnip,  etc.,  that  will  weigh  six  ounces. 
The  exact  weight  is  given  until  the  eye  is  accustomed 
to  it. 

This  soup  strained,  and  boiled  down  to  one  half,  be- 
comes consomme. 

Celery  Cream  is  a  most  delicious  and  little-known 
white  soup,  and  all  lovers  of  good  things  will  thank  me 
for  introducing  it. 

Have  some  nice  veal  stock,  or  the  water  in  which 
chickens  have  been  boiled,  reduced  till  it  is  rich  enough, 
will  do,  or  some  very  rich  mutton  broth,  but  either  of 
the  former  are  preferable  ;  then  put  on  a  half  cup  of  rice 
in  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  and  grate  into  it  the  white  part 


Boiling,  69 

and  root  of  two  heads  of  celery.  Let  the  rice  milk  cook 
very  slowly  at  the  back  of  the  stove,  adding  more  milk 
before  it  gets  at  all  stiff ;  when  tender  enough  to  mash 
through  a  coarse  sieve  or  fine  colander  add  it  to  the 
stock,  which  must  have  been  strained  and  be  quite 
free  from  sediment,  season  with  salt  and  a  little  wMte 
pepper  or  cayenne,  boil  all  together  gently  a  few  min- 
utes. It  should  look  like  rich  cream,  and  be  strongly 
flavored  with  celery.  Of  course  the  quantity  of  rice, 
milk,  and  celery  must  depend  on  the  quantity  of  stock 
you  have.  I  have  given  the  proportion  for  one  quart, 
which,  with  the  milk,  etc.,  added,  would  make  about 
three  pints  of  soup. 


OHAPTEE  X. 

SAUCES. 

Talleykakd  said  England  was  a  country  with  twen- 
ty-four religions  and  only  one  sauce.  He  might  have 
said  two  sauces,  and  he  would  have  been  literally  right 
as  regards  both  England  and  America.  Everything  is 
served  with  brown  sauce  or  white  sauce.  And  how 
often  the  white  sauce  is  like  bookbinder's  paste,  the 
brown,  a  bitter,  tasteless  brown  mess  !  Strictly  speak- 
ing, perhaps,  the  French  have  but  two  sauces  either, 
espagnole,  or  brown  sauce,  and  white  sauce,  which  they 
call  the  mother  sauces  ;  but  what  changes  they  ring  oR 
these  mother  sauces  !  The  espagnole  once  made,  with  no 
two  meats  is  it  served  alike  in  flavor,  and  in  this  matter 
of  flavor  the  artist  appears.  In  making  brown  sauce  for 
any  purpose,  bethink  yourself  of  anything  there  may  be 
in  your  store-room  with  which  to  vary  its  flavor,  taking 
care  that  it  shall  agree  with  the  meat  for  which  it  is  in- 
tended. The  ordinary  cook  flies  at  once  to  Worcester- 
shire or  Harvey  sauce,  which  are  excellent  at  times,  but 
^^  toujour s  perdrix  "  is  not  always  welcome.  A  pinch  of 
mushroom  powder,  or  a  few  chopped  oysters,  are  excel- 
lent with  beef  or  veal ;  so  will  be  a  spoonful  of  Montpel- 
lier  butter  stirred  in,  or  curry,  not  enough  to  yellow  the 
sauce,  but  enough  to  give  a  dash  of  piquancy.  A  pic- 
kled walnut  chopped,  or  a  gherkin  or  two,  go  admirably 
with  mutton  or  pork  chops.     In  short,  this  is  just  where 

70 


Sauces.  71 

imagination  and  brains  will  tell  in  cooking,  and  little 
essays  of  invention  may  be  tried  with  profit.  But  be- 
ware of  trying  too  much ;  make  yourself  perfect  in  one 
thing  before  venturing  on  another. 

EsPAGi^OLE,  or  brown  sauce,  is  simply  a  rich  stock  well 
flavored  with  vegetables  and  herbs,  and  thickened  with 
a  piece  of  roux  or  with  brown  flour. 

White  Sauce  is  one  of  those  things  we  rarely  find  per- 
fectly made ;  bad,  it  is  the  ne  plus  ultra  of  badness ; 
good,  it  is  delicious.  Those  who  have  tried  to  have  it 
good,  and  failed,  I  beg  to  try  the  following  method  of 
making  it :  Take  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  butter  and  a 
scant  tablespoonful  of  flour,  mix  both  with  a  spoon  into  a 
paste  ;  when  smooth  add  half  a  pint  of  warm  milk,  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  the  sixth  part  of  one  of  white  pep- 
per ;  set  it  on  the  fire  till  it  boils,  and  is  thick  enough 
to  mask  the  back  of  the  spoon  transparently  ;  then  add  a 
squeeze  of  lemon  juice,  and  another  ounce  and  a  half  of 
fresh  butter  ;  stir  this  till  quite  blended.  This  sauce  is 
the  foundation  for  many  others,  and,  for  some  purposes, 
the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  is  introduced  when  just  off 
the  boil.  Capers  may  be  added  to  it,  or  chopped  mush- 
rooms, or  chopped  celery,  or  oysters,  according  to  the 
use  for  which  it  is  intended.  The  object  of  adding  the 
second  butter  is  because  boiling  takes  away  the  flavor  of 
butter  ;  by  stirring  half  of  it  in,  without  boiling,  you  re- 
tain it. 


CHAPTEE  XL 

WAEMI2!^G   OYER. 

Hash  is  a  peculiarly  American  institution.  In  no 
other  country  is  every  remnant  of  cold  meat  turned  into 
that  one  unvarying  dish.  What  do  I  say  ?  remnants  of 
cold  meat !  rather  joints  of  cold  meat,  a  roast  of  beef 
of  which  the  tenderloin  had  suflBced  for  the  first  day's 
dinner,  the  leg  of  mutton  from  which  a  few  slices  only 
have  been  taken,  the  fillet  of  veal,  available  for  so  many 
delicate  dishes,  all  are  ruthlessly  turned  into  the  all- 
pervading  hash.  The  curious  thing  is  that  people  are 
not  fond  of  it.  Men  exclaim  against  it,  and  its  name 
stinks  in  the  nostrils  of  those  unhappy  ones  whose  home 
is  the  boarding-house. 

Yet  hash  in  itself  is  not  a  bad  dish  ;  when  I  say  it  is 
a  peculiarly  American  institution,  I  mean,  that  when 
English  people  speak  of  hash,  they  mean  something 
quite  different — meat  warmed  in  slices.  Our  hash,  in 
its  best  form — that  is,  made  with  nice  gravy,  garnished 
with  sippets  of  toast  and  pickles,  surrounded  with 
mashed  potatoes  or  rice — is  dignified  abroad  by  the  name 
of  mince,  and  makes  its  appearance  as  an  elegant  little 
entree.  Nor  would  it  be  anathematized  in  the  way  it 
is  with  us,  if  it  were  only  occasionally  introduced.  It 
is  the  familiarity  that  has  led  to  contempt.  ^^But 
what  shall  I  do?''  asks  the  young  wife  distressfully; 

72 


Warming  Over,  73 

"  John  likes  joints,  and  he  and  I  and  Bridget  can't  pos- 
sibly eat  a  roast  at  a  meal." 

Very  true  ;  and  it  is  to  just  such  perplexed  young 
housekeepers  that  I  hope  this  chapter  will  be  especially 
useful— that  is  to  say,  small  families  with  moderate 
means  and  a  taste  for  good  things.  In  this,  as  in  many 
other  ways,  large  families  are  easier  to  cater  for ;  they 
can  consume  the  better  part  of  a  roast  at  a  meal,  and 
the  remains  it  is  no  great  harm  to  turn  into  hash,  al- 
though eyen  they  might,  with  little  trouble  and  expense, 
have  agreeable  variety  introduced  into  their  bill  of  fare. 

In  England  and  America  there  is  great  prejudice 
against  warmed-over  food,  but  on  the  continent  one  eats 
it  half  the  time  in  some  of  the  most  delicious-made 
dishes  without  suspecting  it.  Herein  lies  the  secret. 
With  us  and  our  transatlantic  cousins  the  warming  over 
is  so  artlessly  done,  that  the  liard  fact  too  often  stares 
at  us  from  out  the  watery  expanse  in  which  it  reposes. 

One  great  reason  of  the  failure  to  make  warmed-over 
meat  satisfactory  is  the  lack  of  gravy.  On  the  goodness 
of  this  (as  well  as  its  presence)  depends  the  success  of 
your  recJiauffL 

The  glaze,  for  which  I  have  given  the  recipe,  renders 
you  at  all  times  independent  in  this  respect,  but  at  the 
same  time  it  should  not  alone  be  depended  on.  Every 
drop  of  what  remains  in  the  dish  from  the  roast  should 
be  saved,  and  great  care  be  taken  of  all  scraps,  bones, 
and  gristle,  which  should  be  carefully  boiled  down  to 
save  the  necessity  of  flying  to  the  glaze  for  every  pur- 
pose. I  will  here  give  several  recipes,  which  I  think 
may  be  new  to  many  readers. 

Salmi  of  Cold  Meat  is  exceedingly  good.  Melt  butter 
in  a  saucepan,  if  for  quite  a  small  dish  two  ounces  will 
4 


74  Culture  and  Cooking, 

be  sufficient ;  when  melted^  stir  in  a  little  flour  to 
thicken ;  let  it  brown^  but  not  burn,  or,  if  you  are  pre- 
paring the  dish  in  haste,  put  in  some  brown  flour  ;  then 
add  a  glass  of  white  or  red  wine  and  a  cup  of  broth,  or  a 
cup  of  water  and  a  slice  of  glaze,  a  sprig  or  two  of 
thyme,  parsley,  a  small  onion,  chopped,  and  one  bay 
leaf,  pepper,  and  salt.  Simmer  all  thoroughly  (all 
sayory  dishes  to  which  wine  is  added  should  simmer 
long  enough  for  the  distinct  ^^winey^^  flavor  to  disap- 
pear, only  the  strength  and  richness  remaining).  Strain 
this  when  simmered  half  an  hour  and  lay  in  the  cold 
meat.  Squeeze  in  a  little  lemon  juice  and  draw  the 
stew-pan  to  the  back  of  the  stove,  but  where  it  will  cook 
no  longer,  or  the  meat  will  harden.  Serve  on  toast,  and 
pour  the  sauce  over.  A  glass  of  brandy  added  to  this 
dish  when  the  meat  goes  in  is  a  great  addition,  if  an 
extra  fine  salmi  is  desired.  By  not  allowing  the  flour 
and  butter  to  brown  and  using  white  wine,  this  is  a  very 
fine  sauce  in  which  to  warm  cold  chicken,  veal,  or  any 
wliite  meat. 

BcEUP  A  LA  Jardikieee. — Piit  in  a  fireproof  dish  if 
you  have  it,  or  a  thick  saucepan,  a  pint  of  beef  broth,  a 
small  bunch  each  of  parsley,  chervil,  tarragon — very  lit- 
tle of  this — shallot  or  onion,  capers,  pickled  gherkins, 
of  each  or  any  a  teaspoonf  ul  chopped  fine  ;  roll  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  butter  with  a  dessert-spoonful  of  brown 
flour,  stir  it  in  ;  then  take  slices  of  underdone  beef,  with 
a  blunt  knife  hack  each  slice  all  over  in  fine  dice,  but 
not  to  separate  or  cut  up  the  slices ;  then  pepper  and 
salt  each  one  and  lay  it  in  with  the  herbs,  sprinkle  a 
layer  of  herbs  over  the  beef  and  cover  closely  ;  then  stand 
the  dish  in  the  oven  to  slowly  cook  for  an  hour,  or,  if 
you  use  a  stew-pan,  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  on  the 


Warming  Over,  75 

stoye  for  an  hour  where  the  water  will  just  boil.  Serve 
on  a  dish  surrounded  with  young  carrots  and  turnips  if 
in  season,  or  old  ones  cut. 

Beef  au  Gratiot. — Cut  a  little  fat  bacon  or  pork  yery 
thin,  sprinkle  on  it  chopped  parsley,  onion,  and  mush- 
rooms (mushroom  powder  will  do)  and  bread-crumbs  ; 
then  put  in  layers  of  beef,  cut  thick,  and  well  and  closely 
hacked,  then  another  layer  of  bacon  or  pork  cut  thin  as 
a  wafer,  and  of  seasoning,  crumbs  last ;  pour  oyer  enough 
broth  or  grayy  to  moisten  well,  in  which  a  little. brandy 
or  wine  may  be  added  if  an  especially  good  dish  is 
desired  ;  bake  slowly  an  hour. 

PsEUDO  Beefsteak. — Cut  cold  boiled  or  roast  beef  in 
thick  slices,  broil  slowly,  lay  in  a  tiot  dish  in  wliich  you 
haye  a  large  spoonful  of  Montpellier  butter  melted, 
sprinkle  a  little  mushroom  powder  if  you  desire,  and 
garnish  with  fried  potato. 

Cutlets  a  la  Jardijntiere. — Trim  some  thick  cutlets 
from  a  cold  leg  of  mutton,  or  chops  from  the  loin,  dip 
them  in  frying  batter,  a  la  Car  erne,  fry  crisp  and  quickly, 
and  serye  wreathed  round  green  peas,  or  a  ragout  made  as 
follows  :  Take  young  carrots,  turnips,  green  peas,  white 
beans  ;  stew  gently  in  a  little  water  to  which  the  bones 
of  the  meat  and  trimmings  haye  been  added  (and  which 
must  be  carefully  removed  not  to  disfigure  the  vegeta- 
bles). Encircle  this  ragout  with  the  fried  cutlets,  and 
crown  with  a  cauliflower. 

Cromesquis  of  lamb  is  a  Polish  recipe.  Cut  some 
underdone  lamb — mutton  will  of  course  do — quite  small  ; 
also  some  mushrooms,  cut  small,  or  the  powder.  Put  in 
a  saucepan  apiece  of  glaze  the  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg,  with 
a  little  water  or  broth,  warm  it  and  thicken  with  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  just  as  you  would  make  boiled  custard,  that 


76  Culture  and  Cooking. 

is,  without  letting  it  come  to  the  boil,  or  it  will  curdle; 
then  add  the  mushrooms  and  meat,  let  all  get  cold,  and 
diyide  it  into  small  pieces,  roll  in  bread-crumbs  sifted, 
then  in  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again,  and  fry  in  yery  hot 
fat;  or  you  may,  after  rolling  in  bread-crumbs,  lay  each 
piece  in  a  spoon  and  dip  it  into  frying  batter ;  let  the 
extra  batter  run  off,  and  drop  the  cromesquis  into  the 
hot  fat.  These  will  be  good  made  of  beef  and  rolled  up 
in  a  bard  of  fat  pork  cut  thin,  and  fried;  serve  with  sauce 
piquant  made  thus  :  Take  some  chopped  parsley,  onion, 
and  pickled  cucumbers,  simmer  till  tender,  and  thicken 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  butter  and  flour.  Of  course 
your  own  brightness  will  tell  you  that,  if  you  are  in 
haste,  a  spoonful  of  Montpellier  butter,  the  same  of  flour, 
melted  in  a  little  water,  to  which  you  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  yinegar,  will  make  an  excellent  sauce  piquant,  and 
this  same  is  excellent  for  anything  fried,  as  breaded 
chops,  croquettes,  etc.  I  may  here  say,  that  where  two 
or  three  herbs  are  mentioned  as  necessary,  for  instance, 
parsley,  tarragon,  and  cheryil,  if  you  haye  no  tarragon 
you  must  leaye  it  out,  or  cheryil  the  same.  It  is  only  a 
matter  of  flayoring,  at  the  same  time  flavor  is  a  great 
deal,  and  these  French  herbs  giye  that  indescribable 
cachet  to  a  dish  which  is  one  of  the  secrets  of  French 
cooking.  Therefore  if  you  are  a  wise  matron  you  will 
haye  a  supply  on  hand,  eyen  if  only  bought  dry  from  the 
druggist. 

MiKOTOi^  OF  Beef. — Peel  and  cut  into  thin  slices  two 
large  onions,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  two  ounces  of 
butter,  place  it  oyer  a  slow  fire  ;  stir  the  onions  round  till 
they  are  rather  brown,  but  not  in  the  least  burnt ;  add  a 
teaspoonful  of  brown  flour,  mix  smoothly,  then  moisten 
with  half  a  pint  of  broth,  or  water  with  a  little  piece  of 


Warming  Over.  77 

glaze,  three  salt-spoonfuls  of  salt  unless  your  broth  was 
salted,  then  half  the  quantity  or  less,  two  of  sugar,  and 
one  of  pepper.  Put  in  the  cold  beef,  cut  in  thin  slices 
as  lean  as  possible,  let  it  remain  five  minutes  at  the  back 
of  the  stoye  ;  then  serye  on  a  yery  hot  dish  garnished 
with  fried  potatoes,  or  sippets  of  toast.  To  yary  the 
flayor,  sometimes  put  a  spoonful  of  tarragon  or  plain 
yinegar,  or  a  teaspoonful  of  mushroom  powder,  or  a 
pinch  of  curry,  unless  objected  to,  or  a  few  sweet  herbs. 
In  fact,  as  you  may  see,  yariety  is  as  easy  to  produce  as 
it  is  rare  to  meet  with  in  ayerage  cooking,  and  depends 
more  on  intelligence  and  thoughtfulness  than  on  any- 
thing else. 

The  simplest  of  all  ways  of  warming  a  joint  that  is 
not  far  cut,  is  to  wrap  it  in  thickly  buttered  paper,  and 
put  it  in  the  oyen  again,  contriying,  if  possible,  to  coyer 
it  closely,  let  it  remain  long  enough  to  get  Tiot  through, 
not  to  cook.  By  keeping  it  closely  coyered  it  will  get 
hot  through  in  less  time,  and  the  steam  will  preyent  it 
getting  hard  and  dry  ;  make  some  grayy  hot  and  serye 
with  the  meat.  If  your  grayy  is  good  and  plentiful, 
your  meat  will  be  as  nice  as  the  first  day;  without  grayy 
it  would  be  an  unsatisfactory  dish.  If  you  cannot 
manage  to  coyer  the  joint  in  the  oyen,  you  may  put  it  in 
a  pot  oyer  the  fire  without  water,  but  with  a  dessert 
spoonful  of  yinegar  to  create  steam  ;  let  it  get  hot 
through,  and  serye  as  before. 

For  the  third  day  the  meat  may  be  warmed  up  in 
any  of  the  ways  I  am  going  to  mention,  repeating  once 
more,  that  you  must  haye  grayy  of  some  kind,  or  else 
carefully  make  some,  with  cracked  bones,  gristle,  etc., 
stewed  long,  and  nicely  flayored  with  any  kind  of 
sauce. 


7^  Culture  and  Cooking. 

Eagout.— A  very  nice  ragout  may  be  made  from  cold 
meat  thus :  Slice  the  meat,  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  in  which 
an  onion,  or  several  if  you  like  them,  has  been  sliced; 
squeeze  half  a  lemon  into  it,  or  a  dessert-spoonful  of  vine- 
gar, cover  closely  without  water,  and  when  it  begins  to 
cook,  set  the  stew-pan  at  the  back  of  the  stove  for  three 
quarters  of  an  hour,  shaking  it  occasionally.  The  onions 
should  now  be  brown;  take  out  the  meat,  dredge  in  a  little 
flour,  stir  it  round,  and  add  a  cup  of  gravy,  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  small  quantity  of  any  sauce  or  flavoring  you  prefer; 
stew  gently  a  minute  or  two,  then  put  the  meat  back  to 
get  hot,  and  serve ;  garnish  with  sippets  of  toast,  or 
pickles. 

A  KiCE  LITTLE  BKEAKFAST  DISH  is  made  thus  :  Cut 
two  long  slices  of  cold  meat  and  three  of  bread,  buttered 
thickly,  about  the  same  shape  and  size  ;  season  the  meat 
wdth  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley;  or, 
if  it  is  veal,  a  little  chopped  ham  ;  then  lay  one  slice  of 
bread  between  two  of  meat,  and  have  the  other  two  slices 
outside  ;  fasten  together  with  short  wooden  skewers.  If 
you  have  a  quick  oven,  put  it  in  ;  and  take  care  to  baste 
with  butter  thoroughly,  that  the  bread  may  be  all  over 
crisp  and  brown.  If  you  can't  depend  on  your  oven,  fry 
it  in  very  hot  fat  as  you  would  crullers  ;  garnish  with 
sprigs  of  parsley,  and  serve  very  hot. 

To  Wakm  a  Good-sized  Piece  of  Beef. — Trim 
it  as  much  like  a  thick  fillet  as  you  can ;  cut  it 
horizontally  half  way  through,  then  scoop  out  as  much 
as  you  can  of  the  meat  from  the  inside  of  each  piece. 
Chop  the  meat  fine  that  you  have  thus  scooped  out, 
season  with  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley  and  thyme,  a 
shred  of  onion,  if  you  like  it;  or  if  you  have  celery  boil 
a  little  of  the  coarser  part  till  tender,  chop  it  and  add 


Wanning  Over,  79 

as  much  bread  finely  crumbled  as  you  have  meat,  and  a 
good  piece  of  butter  ;  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  make  all 
into  a  paste  with  an  egg,  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  gravy  or  milk  ;  fill  up  the  hollow  in  the  meat  and  tie, 
or  still  better,  sew  it  together.  You  may  either  put  this 
in  a  pot  with  a  slice  of  pork  or  bacon,  and  a  cup  of 
gravy;  or  you  may  brush  it  over  with  beaten  ^g^^,  cover 
it -with  crumbs,  and  pour  over  these  a  cup  of  butter, 
melted,  so  that  it  moistens  every  part;  and  bake  it,  taking 
care  to  baste  well  while  baking  ;  serve  with  nice  gravy. 

Beef  Oliyes  are  no  novelty  to  the   ear,  but  it  is  a 
novel  thing  to  find  them  satisfactory  to  the  palate. 

Take  some  stale  bread-crumbs,  an  equal  quantity  of 
beef  finely  chopped,  some  parsley,  and  thyme  ;  a  little 
scraped  ham  if  you  have  it,  a  few  chives,  or  a  slice  of 
onion,  all  chopped  small  as  possible  ;  put  some  butter  in 
a  pan,  and  let  this  force-meat  just  simmer,  not  fry,  in  it 
for  ten  minutes.  While  this  is  cooking,  cut  some  un- 
derdone oblong  slices  of  beef  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
hack  it  with  a  sharp  knife  on  loth  sides  ;  then  mix  the 
cooked  force-meat  with  the  yolk  of  an  ^gg  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  gravy  ;  put  a  spoonful  of  this  paste  in  the 
center  of  each  slice  of  meat  and  tie  it  up  carefully  in  the 
shape  of  an  ^gg.  Then  if  you  have  some  nice  gravy, 
thicken  it  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  roll  each 
olive  slightly  in  flour  and  lay  it  in  the  gravy  and  let  it 
very  gently  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  A  few  chopped 
oysters  added  to  the  gravy  will  be  a  great  addition.  Or 
you  may  lay  each  olive  on  a  thin  slice  of  fat  pork,  roll  it 
up,  tie  it,  dip  it  in  flour,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until 
beautifully  brown. 

To  Wakm  oyer  Cold  Mutton".— An  excellent  and 
simple  way  is  to  cut  it,  if  loin,  into  chops,  or  leg,  into 


8o  Culture  and  Cooking, 

thick  coUops^  and  dip  each  into  ^gg  well  beaten  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  milk,  then  mfine  bread-crumbs  and  fry 
in  plenty  of  very  hot  fat. 

If  your  crumbs  are  not  yery  fine  and  even,  the  larger 
crumbs  will  fall  off,  and  the  appearance  be  spoilt. 
These  chops  will  be  almost  as  nice,  if  quickly  fried,  as 
fresh  cooked  ones.  They  will  also  be  excellent  if,  instead 
of  being  breaded,  they  are  dipped  into  thick  batter  (see 
recipe)  and  fried  brown  in  the  same  way.  This  method 
answers  for  any  kind  of  meat,  chicken  thus  warmed  over 
being  especially  good.  The  batter,  or  egg  and  bread- 
crumbs form  a  sort  of  crust  which  keeps  it  tender  and 
juicy.  Any  attempt  to  fry  cold  meat  without  either  re- 
sults in  a  hard,  stringy,  uneatable  dish. 

White  Meat  of  any  kind  is  excellent  warmed  over 
in  a  little  milk,  in  which  you  have  cut  a  large 
onion,  and,  if  you  like  it,  a  slice  of  salt  pork  or 
ham,  and  a  little  sliced  cucumber,  if  it  is  summer; 
thicken  with  the  yolks  of  one  or  two  eggs,  added 
after  the  whole  has  simmered  twenty  minutes  ;  take 
care  the  egg  thickens  in  the  gravy,  but  does  not  hoil, 
or  it  will  curdle.  If  it  is  in  winter,  chop  a  teaspoonful  of 
pickled  cucumber  or  capers  and  add  just  on  going  to 
table.  In  summer  when  you  have  the  sliced  cucumber, 
squeeze  half  a  lemon  into  the  gravy,  the  last  thing,  to 
give  the  requisite  dash  of  acid.  You  may  vary  the  above 
by  adding  sometimes  a  few  chopped  oysters  ;  at  others, 
mushrooms,  or  celery.  The  last  must  be  put  in  with 
the  onion  and  before  the  meat. 

Deviled  Meat. — Our  better  halves  are  usually  fond 
of  this,  especially  for  breakfast  or  lunch. 

For  this  dish  take  a  pair  of  turkey  or  chicken  drumsticks 
or  some  nice  thick  wedges  of  underdone  beef  or  mutton, 


Warming  Over.  8i 

score  them  deeply  with  a  knife  and  rub  them  over  with 
a  sauce  made  thus:  A  teaspoonful  of  yinegar,  the  same 
of  Harvey  or  Worcestershire  sauce,  the  same  of  mustard, 
a  little  cayenne,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  salad  oil,  or  but- 
ter melted ;  mix  all  till  like  cream,  and  take  care  your 
meat  is  thoroughly  moistened  all  over  with  the  mixture, 
then  rub  your  gridiron  with  butter.  See  that  the  fire  is 
clear,  and  while  the  gridiron  is  getting  hot,  chop  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  parsley  very  fine,  mix  it  up  with  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  lay  this  in  a  dish  which 
you  will  put  to  get  hot.  Then  put  the  meat  to  be  grilled 
on  the  fire  and  turn  often,  so  that  it  will  not  burn;  when 
hot  through  and  brown,  lay  it  in  the  hot  dish,  lay  an- 
other hot  dish  over  it,  and  serve  as  quickly  as  possible 
with  hot  plates. 

Or  the  grill  may  be  served  with  what  Soyer  calls  his 
MepMsto2jhelian  sauce,  which  he  especially  designed  for 
serving  with  deviled  meats.  Chop  six  shallots  or  small 
onions,  wash  and  press  them  in  the  corner  of  a  clean 
cloth,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  half  a  wineglass  of 
chili  vinegar  (pepper  sauce),  a  chopped  clove,  a  tiny  bit 
of  garlic,  two  bay  leaves,  an  ounce  of  glaze;  boil  all  to- 
gether ten  minutes  ;  then  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
tomato  sauce,  a  little  sugar,  and  ten  of  broth  thickened 
with  roux  (or  water  will  do  if  you  have  no  broth). 

It  will  be  remarked  that  in  many  French  recipes  a 
little  sugar  is  ordered.  This  is  not  meant  to  sweeten,  or 
even  be  perceptible;  but  it  enriches,  softens,  tones,  as  it 
were,  the  other  ingredients  as  salt  does. 

Soyee's    Fritadella   (twenty  recipes  in  one). — Put 

half  a  pound  of  bread-crumb  to  soak  in  a  pint  of  cold 

water;  take  the  same  quantity  of  any  kind  of  roast,  or 

boiled  meat,  with   a  little  fat,  chop   it  fine,  press  the 

4* 


82  Culture  and  Cooking. 

bread  in  a  clean  cloth  to  extract  the  water ;  put  in  a 
stew-pan  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
onions  ;  fry  two  minutes  and  stir,  then  add  the  bread, 
stir  and  fry  till  rather  dry,  then  the  meat ;  season  with  a 
teaspoonf ul  of  salt,  half  of  pepper,  and  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg, and  lemon  peel;  stir  continually  till  yery  hot,  then 
add  two  eggs,  one  at  a  time;  mix  well  and  pour  on  a  dish 
to  get  cold.  Then  take  a  piece,  shape  it  like  a  small  egg, 
flatten  it  a  little,  egg  and  bread-crumb  it  all  over,  tak- 
ing care  to  keep  in  good  shape.  Do  all  the  same  way, 
then  put  into  a  frying-pan  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lard 
or  dripping,  let  it  get  hot,  and  put  in  the  pieces,  and 
saute  (or  as  we  call  it  "fry  '^)  them  a  fine  yellow  brown. 
Serve  very  hot  with  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes,  or  any 
garniture  you  fancy.  Sauce  piquant,  or  not,  as  you 
please. 

The  above  can  be  made  with  any  kind  of  meat,  poul- 
try, game,  fish,  or  even  vegetables;  hard  eggs,  or  potatoes, 
may  be  introduced  in  small  quantities,  and  they  may  be 
fried  instead  of  sauteed  (frying  in  the  French  and  strict 
sense,  meaning  as  I  need  hardly  say,  entire  immersion  in 
very  hot  fat).  To  fry  them  you  require  at  least  two 
pounds  of  fat  in  your  pan. 

Oysters  or  lobsters  prepared  as  above  are  excellent. 

Boileau  says,  '^  Un  diner  rechauffe  ne  valut  ja7nais 
rien.^^  But  I  think  a  good  French  cook  of  the  present 
day  would  make  him  alter  his  opinion. 

Indeed  Savarin  quotes  a  friend  of  his  own,  a  notable 
gourmand,  who  considered  spinach  cooked  on  Monday 
only  reached  perfection  the  following  Saturday,  having 
each  day  of  the  week  been  warmed  up  with  butter,  and 
each  day  gaining  succulence  and  a  more  marrowy  consist- 
ency. 


Warjning  Over,  83 

The  only  trouble  I  find  in  relation  to  this  part  of  my 
present  task  is  the  difficulty  of  knowing  when  to  leave 
off.  There  are  so  many  ways  of  warming  meats  to  ad- 
vantage—and in  every  one  way  there  is  the  suggestion 
for  another — that  I  suffer  from  an  emlarras  de  richesse, 
and  have  had  difficulty  in  selecting.  Dozens  come  to  my 
mind,  blanquettes,  patties,  curries,  as  I  write;  but  as 
this  is  not,  I  have  said,  to  be  a  recipe  book,  I  forbear.  Of 
one  thing  I  am  quite  sure  :  when  women  once  know  how  to 
make  nice  dishes  of  cold  meat  they  will  live  well  where 
they  now  live  badly,  and  for  less  money;  and  ^^hash^'  will 
be  relegated  to  its  proper  place  as  an  occasional  and  ac- 
ceptable dish. 


CHAPTER  XII. 

O:^  FEIAiq-DISES. 

**  Le  role  du  gourmand  finit  avec  Tentremets,  et  celui  du  friand 
commence  au  dessert. — Grimod  de  la  Beyniere. 

Amekicak  ladies,  as  a  rule,  excel  in  cake  making  and 
preserving,  and  I  feel  that  on  that  head  I  have  very  little 
to  teach ;  indeed,  were  they  as  accomplished  in  all 
branches  of  cooking  as  in  making  dainty  sweet  dishes 
this  book  would  be  uncalled  for. 

Yet,  notwithstanding  their  undoubted  taste  and  ability 
in  making  ^'friandises,'^^  it  seems  to  me  a  few  recipes 
borrowed  from  what  the  French  call  la  grande  cuisine^ 
and  possible  of  execution  at  home,  will  be  welcome  to 
those  who  wish  to  yary  the  eternal  ice  cream  and  char- 
lotte russe,  with  other  sweets  more  elegant  and  likely  to 
be  equally  popular. 

Iced  Souffle  a  la  Byeok. — One  pint  of  sugar 
syrup  of  32  degrees  (get  this  at  a  druggist's  if 
you  do  not  understand  sugar  boiling),  three  gills  of 
strained  raspberry  juice,  one  lemon,  one  gill  of  maras- 
chino, fifteen  yolks  of  eggs,  two  ounces  of  chocolate 
drops,  half  a  pint  of  yery  thick  cream  Avhipped. 

Method  of  making  this  and  the  next  recipe  is  as  follows: 
Mix  the  syrup  and  yolks  of  eggs,  strain  into  a  warm 
bowl,  add  the  raspberry  and  lemon  juice  and  maras- 
chino, whisk  till  it  creams  well,  then  take  the  bowl  out 

84 


On  Friandises,  85 

of  the  hot  water  and  whisk  ten  minutes  longer  ;  add  the 
chocolate  drops  and  whipped  cream ;  lightly  fill  a  case 
or  mold,  and  set  in  a  freezer  for  two  hours,  then  coyer 
the  surface  with  lady-fingers  (or  sponge  cake)  dried  in 
the  oven  a  pale  brown,  and  rolled.     Serve  at  once. 

Another  frozen  souffle  is  as  follows  : 

One  pint  of  syrup,  32  degrees,  half  a  pint  of  noyeau, 
half  a  pint  of  cherry  juice,  two  ounces  of  bruised 
macaroons,  half  a  pint  of  thick  cream  whipped,  made  in 
the  same  way  as  the  last.  I  may  here  say  that  the  fruit 
juices  can  be  procured  now  at  all  good  druggists,  so  that 
these  souffles  are  very  attainable  in  winter,  and  as  noy- 
eau and  maraschino  do  not  form  part  of  the  stores  in  a 
family  of  small  means,  I  will  give  in  this  chapter  recipes 
for  the  making  of  very  fair  imitations  of  the  genuine 
liqueurs. 

Biscuit  Glace  a  la  Charles  Dickei^s. — One  pint 
of  syrup  (32°),  fifteen  yolks  of  eggs,  three  gills  of  peach 
pulp,  colored  pink  with  cochineal,  one  gill  of  noyeau, 
half  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and  a  little  chocolate  water- 
ice,  made  with  half  a  pint  of  syrup  and  four  ounces  of 
the  best  chocolate  smoothly  mixed  and  frozen  ready. 

Mix  syrup,  yolks,  peach  pulps,  noyeau,  and  a  few 
drops  of  vanilla,  whip  high  ;  mix  with  the  whipped 
cream,  and  set  in  ice  for  one  hour  and  a  half  in  brick- 
shaped  molds,  then  turn  out  (if  very  firm),  and  cut  in 
slices  an  inch  thick,  and  coat  them  all  over,  or  on  top 
and  sides,  with  the  chocolate  ice,  smoothing  with  a  knife 
dipped  in  cold  water ;  serve  in  paper  cases. 

Biscuit  Glace  a  la  Thackeray.— One  pint  of  syrup 
(32°),  one  pint  of  strawberry  pulp,  fifteen  yolks  of  eggs, 
one  ounce  of  vanilla  sugar  (flavor  a  little  sugar  with  va- 
nilla), half  a  pint  of  thick  cream. 


86  Culture  and  Cooking. 

Mix  syrup^  yolks^  strawberry,  and  yanilla  sugar,  whip- 
ping as  before,  then  add  the  whij)ped  cream  lightly ;  fill 
paper  cases,  either  round  or  square  ;  surround  each  with 
a  band  of  stiff  paper,  to  reach  half  an  inch  above  the 
edge  of  the  case,  the  bands  to  be  pinned  together  to  se- 
cure them  ;  place  them  in  a  freezer.  When  about  to  send 
to  table,  remove  the  bands  of  paper,  and  coyer  with 
macaroons  bruised  fine  and  browned  in  the  oyen.  The 
bands  of  paper  are  meant  to  give  the  biscuit  the  appear- 
ance of  haying  risen  while  supposed  to  bake. 

These  delicious  ices  were  inyented  by  Francatelli,  the 
Queen  of  England's  chief  cook,  to  do  homage  to  the 
different  great  men  whose  names  they  bear,  on  the  occa- 
sion of  preparing  dinners  giyen  in  their  honor.  They 
read  as  if  somewhat  intricate,  but  any  lady  who  has  ever 
had  ice  cream  made  at  home,  and  had  the  patience  to 
make  charlotte  russe,  need  not  shrink  appalled  before 
these  novelties,  or  fear  for  a  successful  result. 

Baba  is  a  cake  many  call  for  at  a  confectioner's,  yet 
few,  if  any  one,  attempts  to  make  it  at  home.  That 
the  recipes  generally  offered  do  not  lead  to  success  may  be 
one  reason,  and  I  offer  the  following,  quite  sure,  if  ac- 
curately followed,  such  a  baba  will  result  as  never  was 
eaten  outside  of  Paris. 

Baba. — One  pound  of  flour  ;  take  one  quarter  of  it, 
and  make  a  sponge  with  half  an  ounce  of  compressed 
yeast  and  a  little  warm  water,  set  it  to  rise,  make  a  hole 
in  the  rest  of  the  flour,  add  to  it  ten  ounces  of  butter, 
three  eggs,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar,  a  little  salt, 
unless  your  butter  salts  it  enough,  which  is  generally 
the  case.  Beat  all  together  well,  then  add  five  more  eggs, 
one  at  a  time,  that  is  to  say,  add  one  egg  and  beat  well, 
then  another  and  beat  again,  and  so  on  until  the  five  are 


On  Friandises.  8/ 

used.  When  the  paste  leayes  the  bowl  it  is  beaten 
enough,  but  not  before ;  then  add  the  sponge  to  it,  and 
a  large  half  ounce  of  citron  chopped,  the  same  of  cur- 
rants, and  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  sultana  raisins,  seed- 
less. Let  it  rise  to  twice  its  size,  then  bake  it  in  an  oven 
of  dark  yellow  paper  heat ;  the  small  round  babas  are  an 
innoyation  of  the  pastry-cook  to  enable  him  to  sell  them 
uncut.  But  the  baba  proper  should  be  baked  in  a  large, 
deep,  upright  tin,  such  as  a  large  charlotte  russe  mold, 
when  they  keep  for  several  days  fresh,  and  if  they  get 
stale,  make  delicious  fritters,  soaked  in  sherry  and 
dipped  in  frying  batter. 

In  some  cases,  however,  it  may  be  preferred  to  make 
them  as  usually  seen  at  French  pastry  cooks  ;  for  this 
purpose  you  require  a  dozen  small-sized  round  char- 
lotte russe  molds,  which  fill  half  full  only,  as  they 
rise  very  much;  bake  these  in  a  hotter  oven,  light  brown 
paper  heat;  try  with  a  twig  as  you  would  any  other  cake, 
if  it  comes  out  dry  it  is  done  ;  then  prepare  a  syrup  as 
follows  :  Boil  half  pound  of  sugar  in  a  pint  of  water,  add 
to  this  the  third  of  a  pint  of  rum,  and  some  apricot 
pulp — peach  will  of  course  do — and  boil  all  together  a 
few  minutes  ;  pour  this  half  an  inch  deep  in  a  dish,  and 
stand  the  cake  or  cakes  in  it  ;  it  should  drink  up  all  the 
syrup,  you  may  also  sprinkle  some  over  it.  If  any  syrup 
remains,  use  it  to  warm  over  your  cake  when  stale, 
instead  of  the  sherry. 

Baba  was  introduced  into  France  by  Stanislas  Lec- 
zinski,  king  of  Poland,  and  the  father-in-law  of  Louis 
XIV. ;  and  his  Polish  royal  descendants  still  use  with 
it,  says  Careme,  a  syrup  made  of  Malaga  wine  and 
one  sixth  part  of  eau  de  tanaisie. 

But,  although  our  forefathers  seemed  to  have  relished 


88  Culture  and  Cooking, 

tansy  yery  much,  to  judge  from  old  recipe  books,  I 
doubt  if  such  flayoring  would  be  appreciated  in  our 
time. 

Sayarins — commonly  called  wine  cake  by  New  York 
pastry  cooks — are  made  as  follows  : 

One  pound  of  flour,  of  which  take  one  quarter  to  make 
a  sponge,  using  half  an  ounce  of  German  compressed  yeast, 
and  a  little  warm  milk  ;  when  it  has  risen  to  twice  its 
bulk,  add  one  gill  of  hot  milk,  two  eggs,  and  the  rest  of 
the  flour ;  mix  well ;  then  add  one  more  egg  and  beat, 
another,  still  beating;  then  add  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  fresh  butter,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  salt,  half 
an  ounce  of  sugar,  and  half  a  gill  of  hot  milk,  beat  well; 
then  add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  continually,  until 
you  haye  used  fiye  more.  Cut  in  small  dice  three  ounces 
of  candied  orange  peel;  butter  a  tin,  which  should  be  deep 
and  straight-sided — a  tin  pudding  boiler  is  not  a  bad 
thing — and  sprinkle  with  chopped  almonds.  Fill  the 
mold  half  full,  and  when  risen  to  twice  its  bulk,  bake  in 
a  moderate  oyen,  dark  yellow  paper  heat.  When  seryed, 
this  cake  should  stand  in  a  dish  of  syrup,  flayored  with 
rum,  as  for  baba,  or  with  sherry  wine. 

BoucHEES  DES  Dames,  a  yery  ornamental  and  delicious 
little  French  cake,  is  sufficiently  noy el  to  deserye  a  place 
here,  I  think.  Make  any  nice  drop  cake  batter  (either 
sponge,  or  sponge  with  a  little  butter  in  it  I  prefer)  ;  drop 
one  on  buttered  paper  and  bake  ;  if  it  runs,  beat  in  a 
little  more  flour  and  sugar,  but  not  much,  or  your  cakes 
will  be  brittle  ;  they  should  be  the  size,  when  done,  of  a 
fifty-cent  piece,  and  I  find  half  a  teaspoonf ul  of  batter 
dropped  generally  makes  them  about  right.  Haye  a 
tin  cutter  or  tin  box  lid,  if  you  haye  no  cutter  so  small, 
about  the  size,  and  with  it  trim  each  cake  when  baked ; 


On  Friandises.  89 

then  take  half  the  number  and  spread  some  with  a  yery 
thin  layer  of  red  currant  jelly,  others  with  peach  or 
raspberry;  then  on  each  so  spread  put  a  cake  that  is 
unspread,  thus  making  a  tiny  sandwich  or  jelly  cake. 
If  you  haye  different  sorts  of  jelly,  put  each  separate,  as 
you  must  adapt  the  flay  or  of  your  icing  to  the  jelly. 
For  red  currant,  ice  with  chocolate  icing.  Recipes  for 
icing  are  so  general  that  I  refer  you  to  your  cookery 
book.  Those  with  peach  may  haye  white  icing,  flayored 
with  almond,  or  with  rum,  beating  in  a  little  more 
sugar  if  the  flayoring  dilutes  your  icing  too  much.  Al- 
mond flayoring  goes  well  with  raspberry.  Cakes  with 
raspberry  jelly  or  jam  should  be  iced  pink,  coloring  the 
icing  with  prepared  cochineal  or  cranberry  juice.  Thus 
you  have  your  cakes  brown,  pink,  and  white,  which  look 
yery  pretty  mixed. 

The  process  of  icing  is  difficult  to  do  after  they  are  put 
together,  but  they  are  much  handsomer  this  way,  and 
keep  longer.  You  require,  to  accomplish  it,  a  good 
quantity  of  each  kind  of  icing,  and  a  number  of  little 
wooden  skewers  ;  stick  one  into  each  cake  and  dip  it 
in  the  icing,  let  it  run  off,  then  stand  the  other  end  of 
the  skewer  in  a  box  of  sand  or  granulated  sugar.  The 
easiest  way  is  to  ice  each  half  cake  before  putting  in 
the  jelly ;  when  the  icing  is  hard  spread  with  jelly,  and 
put  together. 

CUEA90A  may  be  successfully  imitated  by  pouring  oyer 
eight  ounces  of  the  thinly  pared  rind  of  yery  ripe 
oranges  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  coyer,  and  let  it  cool ; 
then  add  two  quarts  of  brandy,  or  strong  French  spirit, 
coyer  closely,  and  let  it  stand  fourteen  days,  shaking  it 
eyery  day.  Make  a  clarified  syrup  of  two  pounds  of 
sugar  into  one  pint  of  water,  well  boiled ;  strain  the 


90  Culture  and  Cooking, 

brandy  into  it,  leaving  it  coyered  close  another  day. 
Kub  up  in  a  mortar  one  drachm  of  potash,  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  the  liqueurs  ;  when  well  blended,  put  this 
into  the  liqueur,  and  in  the  same  way  pound  and  add 
a  drachm  of  alum,  shake  well,  and  in  an  hour  or  two 
filter  through  thin  muslin.  Eeady  for  use  in  a  week  or 
two. 

M AKASCHiisro . — Bruise  slightly  a  dozen  cherry  kernels, 
put  them  in  a  deep  jar  with  the  outer  rind  of  three  or- 
anges and  two  lemons,  coyer  with  two  quarts  of  gin,  then 
add  syrup  and  leaye  it  a  fortnight,  as  for  cura^oa.  Stir 
syrup  and  spirit  together,  leaye  it  another  day,  run  it 
through  a  jelly  bag,  and  bottle.  Eeady  to  use  in  ten 
days. 

NoTEAU. — Blanch  and  pound  two  pounds  of  bitter  al- 
monds, or  four  of  peach  kernels  ;  put  to  them  a  gallon  of 
spirit  or  brandy,  two  pounds  of  white  sugar  candy — or 
sugar  will  do— a  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  pod  of  yanilla  ; 
leaye  it  three  weeks  coyered  close,  then  filter  and  bottle  ; 
but  do  not  use  it  for  three  months.  To  be  used  with 
caution. 


CHAPTER  XIIL 
PEEKCH  ca:n"dt  at  home. 

This  chapter  I  shall  have  to  make  one  of  recipes 
chiefly,  for  it  treats  of  a  branch  of  cooking  not  usually 
found  in  cookery  books^  or  at  least  there  is  seldom  any- 
thing on  the  art  of  confectionery  beyond  molasses  or 
cream  taffy  and  nougat.  These,  therefore^  I  shall  not 
touch  upon,  but  rather  show  you  how  to  make  the  ex- 
pensiye  French  candies. 

The  great  art  of  making  these  exquisite  candies  is  in 
boiling  the  sugar,  and  it  is  an  art  easily  acquired  with 
patience. 

Put  into  a  marbleized  saucepan  (by  long  experience  in 
sugar-boiling  I  find  them  less  likely  to  burn  even  than 
brass,  and  I  keep  one  for  the  purpose)  one  pound  of 
sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  water ;  when  it  has  boiled  ten 
minutes  begin  to  try  it ;  haye  a  bowl  of  water  with  a 
pieqe  of  ice  near  you,  and  drop  it  from  the  end  of  a 
spoon.  When  it  falls  to  the  bottom,  and  you  can  take  it 
up  and  make  it  into  a  softish  ball  (not  at  all  sticky)  be- 
tween your  thumb  and  finger,  it  is  at  the  right  point ; 
remoye  it  from  the  fire  to  a  cold  place ;  when  cool,  if 
perfectly  right,  a  thin  jelly-like  film  will  be  oyer  the 
surface,  not  a  sugary  one  j  if  it  is  sugary,  and  you  want 
your  candy  yery  creamy,  you  must  add  a  few  spoonfuls 
of  water,  return  to  the  fire  and  boil  again,  going  through 

91 


92  Culture  and  Cooking, 

the  same  process  of  trying  it.  You  must  be  careful  that 
there  is  not  the  least  inclination  to  be  brittle  in  the  ball 
of  candy  you  take  from  the  water  ;  if  so^  it  is  boiled  a 
degree  too  high  ;  put  a  little  water  to  bring  it  back  again, 
and  try  once  more.  A  speck  of  cream  of  tartar  is  use- 
ful in  checking  a  tendency  in  the  syrup  to  go  to  sugar. 
When  you  haye  your  sugar  boiled  just  right  set  it  to 
cool,  and  when  you  can  bear  your  finger  in  it,  begin  to 
beat  it  with  a  spoon  ;  in  ten  minutes  it  will  be  a  white 
paste  resembling  lard,  which  you  will  find  you  can  work 
like  bread  dough.  This,  then,  is  your  foundation, 
called  by  French  confectioners  fondant ;  with  your  fon- 
dant you  can  work  maryels.  But  to  begin  with  the 
simplest  French  candies. 

Take  a  piece  of  fondant^  flayor  part  of  it  with  yanilla, 
part  of  it  with  lemon,  color  yellow  (see  coloring  can- 
dies), and  another  part  with  raspberry,  color  pink  ;  make 
these  into  balls,  grooyed  cones,  or  anything  that  strikes 
your  fancy,  let  them  stand  till  they  harden,  they  are 
then  ready  for  use. 

Take  another  part  of  jout  fondant,  haye  some  English 
walnuts  chopped,  flayor  with  yanilla  and  color  pink; 
work  the  walnuts  into  the  paste  as  you  would  fruit  into 
a  loaf  cake ;  when  mixed,  make  a  paper  case  an  inch 
wide  and  deep,  and  three  or  four  inches  long  ;  oil  it ; 
press  the  j)aste  into  it,  and  when  firm  turn  it  out  and  cut 
into  cubes.  Or,  instead  of  walnuts,  use  chopped  al- 
monds, flayor  with  yanilla,  and  leaye  the  fondant  white. 
This  makes  Va^^illa  ALM0]tq"D  Cream. 

TuTTi  Frutti  Ca:n-dy. — Chop  some  almonds,  citron, 
a  few  currants,  and  seedless  raisins  ;  work  into  some 
fondanty  flayor  with  rum  and  lemon,  thus  making  Ko- 
man  punch,  or  with  yanilla  or  raspberry  ;  press  into  the 


French  Candy  at  Home,  93 

paper  forms  as  you  did  the  walnut  cream.  You  see  how 
you  can  ring  the  changes  on  these  bars^  varying  the 
flayoring,  inventing  new  combinations^  etc. 

FokdaktPa]^ache.— Take  jom  fondant,  divide  it  in 
three  equal  parts^  color  one  pink  and  flavor  as  you  choose, 
leave  the  other  white  and  flavor  also  as  you  please  ; 
but  it  must  agree  with  the  pink^  and  both  must  agree 
with  the  next,  which  is  chocolate.  Melt  a  little  un- 
sweetened chocolate  by  setting  it  in  a  saucer  over  the 
boiling  kettle,  then  take  enough  of  it  to  make  your  third 
piece  of  fondant  a  fine  brown  ;  now  divide  the  white 
into  two  parts  ;  make  each  an  inch  and  a  half  wide,  and 
as  long  as  it  will  ;  do  the  same  with  the  chocolate  fon- 
dant;  then  take  the  pink,  make  it  the  same  width  and 
length,  but  of  course,  not  being  divided,  it  will  be  twice 
as  thick  ;  now  butter  slightly  the  back  of  a  plate,  or, 
better  still,  get  a  few  sheets  of  waxed  paper  from  the 
confectioner's  ;  lay  one  strip  of  the  chocolate  on  it,  then 
a  strip  of  white  on  that,  then  the  pink,  the  other  white, 
and  lastly  the  chocolate  again  ;  then  lightly  press  them 
to  make  them  adhere,  but  not  to  squeeze  them  out  of 
shape.  Tou  have  now  an  oblong  brick  of  parti-colored 
candy ;  leave  it  for  a  few  hours  to  harden,  then  trim  it 
neatly  with  a  knife  and  cut  it  crosswise  into  slices  half 
an  inch  think,  lay  on  waxed  paper  to  dry,  turning  once 
in  a  while,  and  pack  away  in  boxes. 

If  J om:  fondant  gets  very  hard  while  you  work,  stand 
it  over  hot  water  a  few  minutes. 

Creamed  candies  are  very  fashionable  just  now,  and, 
your  fondant  once  ready,  are  very  easy  to  make. 

Cream  Walkuts. — Make  ready  some  almonds,  some 
walnuts  in  halves,  some  hazelnuts,  or  anything  of  the 
sort  you  fancy ;  let  them  be  very  dry.    Take  fondant  made 


Q4  Culture  and  Cooking, 

from  a  pound  of  sugar,  set  it  in  a  bowl  in  a  saucepan  of 
boiling  water,  stirring  it  till  it  is  like  cream.  Then  haying 
flayored  it  with  yanilla  or  lemon,  drop  in  your  nuts  one 
by  one,  taking  them  out  with  the  other  hand  on  the  end 
of  a  fork,  resting  it  on  the  edge  of  your  bowl  to  drain  for 
a  second,  then  drop  the  nut  on  to  a  waxed  or  buttered 
paper  neatly.  If  the  nut  shows  through  the  cream  it  is 
too  hot ;  take  it  out  of  the  boiling  water  and  beat  till  it 
is  just  thick  enough  to  mask  the  nut  entirely,  then  re- 
turn it  to  the  boiling  water,  as  it  cools  yery  rapidly  and 
becomes  unmanageable,  when  it  has  to  be  warmed  oyer 
again. 

Veey  fine  chocolate  ceeams  are  made  as  follows  : 
Boil  half  a  pound  of  sugar  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
thick  cream  till  it  makes  a  soft  ball  in  water,  then  let  it 
cool.  When  cool  beat  it  till  it  is  yery  white,  flayor  with  a 
few  drops  of  yanilla  and  make  it  into  balls  the  size  of  a  large 
pea;  then  take  some  unsweetened  chocolate  warmed,  mix 
it  with  a  piece  ol  fondant  melted — there  should  be  more 
chocolate  than  sugar — and  when  quite  smooth  and  thick 
enough  to  mask  the  cream,  drop  them  in  from  the  end 
of  a  fork,  take  them  out,  and  drop  on  to  wax  paper. 

Another  yery  fine  candy  to  be  made  without  heat, 
and  therefore  conyenient  for  hot  weather,  is  made  as 
follows  : 

PuKCH  Drops.— Sift  some  powdered  sugar.  Haye 
ready  some  fine  white  gum-arabic,  put  a  tablespoonful 
with  the  sugar  (say  half  a  pound  of  sugar),  and  make  it 
into  a  firm  paste  ;  if  too  wet,  add  more  sugar,  flayor  with 
lemon  and  a  tiny  speck  of  tartaric  acid  or  a  yery  little  lem- 
on juice.  Make  the  paste  into  small  balls,  then  take  more 
sugar  and  make  it  into  icing  with  a  spoonful  of  Santa 
Cruz  rum   and  half  the  white  of  an   egg.     Try  if  it 


French  Candy  at  Home.  95 

hardens,  if  not,  beat  in  more  sugar  and  color  it  a  bright 
pink,  then  dip  each  ball  in  the  pink  icing  and  harden 
on  wax  paper.  These  are  very  novel,  beautiful  to  look 
at,  and  the  flavors  may  vary  to  taste. 

To    MAKE    COCHIKEAL    COLOEIKG    WHICH    IS    QUITE 

Haemless. — Take  one  ounce  of  powdered  cochineal, 
one  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar,  two  drachms  of  alum, 
half  a  pint  of  water  ;  boil  the  cochineal,  water,  and 
cream  of  tartar  till  reduced  to  one  half,  then  add  the 
alum^  and  put  up  in  small  bottles  for  use.  Yellow  is 
obtained  by  the  infusion  of  Spanish  saffron  in  a  little 
water,  or  a  still  better  one  from  the  grated  rind  of  a 
ripe  orange  put  into  muslin,  and  a  little  of  the  juice 
squeezed  through  it. 

Be  careful  in  boiling  the  sugar  ion  fondant,  not  to  stir 
it  after  it  is  dissolved  ;  stirring  causes  it  to  become  rough 
instead  of  creamy. 


CHAPTEE  XIV. 

A   CHAPTEE   FOR   PEOPLE    OF   YERY   SMALL   MEANS. 

I  AM  sorry  to  say  in  these  days  this  chapter  may  ap- 
peal to  many^  who  are  yet  not  to  be  called  '^poor  peo- 
ple/^ who  may  have  been  well-to-do  and  only  suffering 
from  the  pressure  of  the  times,  and  for  whose  cultivated 
appetites  the  coarse,  substantial  food  of  the  laboring  man 
(even  if  they  could  buy  it)  would  not  be  eatable,  who 
must  have  what  they  do  have  good,  or  starve.  But,  as 
some  of  the  things  for  which  I  give  recipes  will  seem 
over-economical  for  people  who  can  afford  to  buy  meat 
at  least  once  a  day,  I  advise  those  who  have  even  fifty 
dollars  a  month  income  to  skip  it ;  reminding  them,  if 
they  do  not,  ^Hhat  necessity  knows  no  law.^^ 

A  bone  of  soup  meat  can  be  got  at  a  good  butcher's 
for  ten  or  fifteen  cents,  and  is  about  the  best  invest- 
ment, for  that  sum  I  know  of,  as  two  nourishing  and 
savory  meals,  at  least,  for  four  or  five  persons  can  be 
got  from  it. 

Carefully  make  a  nice  soup,  with  plenty  of  vegetables, 
rice,  or  any  other  thickening  you  like.  Your  bone  will 
weigh  from  four  fco  six  pounds,  perhaps  ;  put  it  on  with 
water  according  to  size,  and  let  it  boil  down  slowly  until 
nice  and  strong.  If  you  have  had  any  scraps  of  meat  or 
bones,  put  them  also  to  your  soup. 

When  you  serve  it,  keep  back  a  cup  of  soup  and  a  few 

96 


Chapter  for  People  of  Very  Squall  Means,      97 

of  the  vegetables,  and  save  the  meat,  from  which  you 
can  make  a  very  appetizing  hash  in  the  following  way  : 
Take  the  meat  from  the  bone,  chop  it  with  some  cold 
potatoes  and  the  vegetables  you  saved  from  the  soup. 
Cold  stewed  onions,  boiled  carrots  or  turnips,  all  help  to 
make  the  dish  savory.  Chop  an  onion  very  fine,  unless 
you  have  cold  ones,  a  little  parsley  and  thyme,  if  liked, 
and  sometimes,  for  variety's  sake,  if  you  have  it,  a  pinch 
of  curry  powder,  not  enough  to  make  it  hot  or  yellow, 
yet  to  impart  piquancy.  If  you  have  a  tiny  bit  of  fried 
bacon  or  cold  ham  or  cold  pork,  chop  it  with  the  other 
ingredients,  mix  all  Avell,  moisten  with  the  cold  soup, 
and,  when  nicely  seasoned,  put  the  hash  into  an  iron 
frying-pan,  in  which  you  have  a  little  fat  made  hot ; 
pack  it  smoothly  in,  cover  it  with  a  pot-lid,  and  either 
set  it  in  a  hot  oven,  or  leave  it  to  brown  on  the  stove. 
If  there  was  more  soup  than  enough  to  moisten  the  hash, 
put  it  on  in  a  tiny  saucepan,  with  a  little  brown  flour 
made  into  a  paste  with  butter,  add  a  drop  of  tomato  cat- 
sup, or  a  little  stewed  tomato,  or  anything  you  have  for 
flavoring,  and  stir  till  it  boils.  Then  turn  the  hash  out 
whole  on  a  dish,  it  should  be  brown  and  crisp,  pour  the 
gravy  you  have  made  round  it,  and  serve.  For  a  change 
make  a  pie  of  the  hash,  pouring  the  gravy  in  through 
a  hole  in  the  top  when  done. 

It  is  not  generally  known  that  a  very  nice  plain  paste 
can  be  made  with  a  piece  of  bread  dough,  to  which  you 
have  added  an  egg,  and  some  lard,  dripping,  or  butter. 
The  dripping  is  particularly  nice  for  the  hash  pie,  and, 
as  you  need  only  a  piece  of  dough  as  large  as  an  orange, 
you  will  probably  have  enough  from  the  soup,  if  you 
skimmed  off  all  the  fat  before  putting  the  vegetables  in 
{^QQ  pot-aufeu)  ;  work  your  dripping  into  the  dough, 
5 


98  Culture  and  Cooking, 

and  let  it  rise  well,  then  roll  as  ordinary  pie-crust.  Po- 
tato crust  is  also  very  good  for  plain  pies  of  any  sort,  but 
as  there  are  plenty  of  recipes  for  it,  I  will  not  giye  one 
here. 

One  of  the  yery  best  hashes  I  ever  ate  was  prepared 
by  a  lady  who,  in  better  times,  kept  a  very  fine  table. 
And  she  told  me  there  were  a  good  many  cold  beans 
in  it,  well  mashed ;  and  often  since,  when  taking  ^Hray- 
elers'  hash^'  in  an  hotel,  I  haye  thought  of  that  sayory 
dish  with  regret. 

Instead  of  making  your  chopped  meat  into  hash,  yary 
it,  by  rolling  the  same  mixture  into  egg-shaped  pieces, 
or  flat  cakes,  flouring  them,  and  frying  them  nicely  in 
yery  hot  fat ;  pieces  of  pork  or  bacon  fried  and  laid 
round  will  help  out  the  dish,  and  be  an  improyement 
to  what  is  already  yery  good. 

To  return  once  more  to  the  soup  bone.  If  any  one  of 
your  family  is  fond  of  marrow,  seal  up  each  end  of  the 
bone  with  a  paste  made  of  flour  and  water.  When  done, 
take  off  the  paste,  and  remove  the  marrow.  Made  very 
hot,  and  spread  on  toast,  with  pepper  and  salt,  it  will  be 
a  relish  for  some  one's  tea  or  breakfast. 

In  this  country  there  is  a  prejudice  against  sheep's 
liver  ;  while  in  England,  where  beef  liver  is  looked  upon 
as  too  coarse  to  eat  (and  falls  to  the  lot  of  the  ^^  cats- 
meat  man,"  or  cat  butcher),  sheep's  is  esteemed  next  to 
calf's,  and  it  is,  in  fact,  more  delicate  than  beef  liver. 
The  nicest  way  to  cook  it  is  in  very  thin  slices  (not  the 
inch-thick  pieces  one  often  sees),  each  slice  dipped  in 
flour  and  fried  in  pork  or  bacon  fat,  and  pork  or  bacon 
served  with  it.  But  the  more  economical  way  is  to  put 
it  in  a  pan,  dredge  it  with  flour,  pin  some  fat  pork  over 
it,  and  set  it  in  a  hot  oven  ;  when  yery  brown  take  it  out ; 


Chapter  for  People  of  Very  Small  Means,     99 

make  nice  brown  gravy  by  pouring  water  in  the  pan  and 
letting  it  boil  on  the  stove,  stirring  it  well  to  dissolve  the 
glaze  ;  pour  into  the  dish,  and  serve.  The  heart  should 
be  stuffed  with  bread-crumbs^  parsley,  thyme,  and  a  lit- 
tle onion,  and  baked  separately.  Oj*,  for  a  change,  you 
may  chop  the  liver  up  with  a  few  sweet  herbs  and  a  lit- 
tle pork  (onion,  or  not,  as  you  like),  and  some  bread- 
crumbs. Put  all  together  in  a  crock,  dredge  with  flour, 
cover,  and  set  in  a  slow  oven  for  an  hour  and  a  half ; 
then  serve,  with  toasted  bread  around  the  dish. 

It  is  very  poor  economy  to  buy  inferior  meat.  One 
pound  of  fine  beef  has  more  nourishment  than  two  of 
poor  quality.  But  there  is  a  great  difference  in  prices  of 
different  parts  of  meat,  and  it  is  better  management  to 
choose  the  cheap  part  of  fine  beef  than  to  buy  the  sir- 
loin of  a  poor  ox  even  at  the  same  price ;  and,  by  good 
cooking  many  parts  not  usually  chosen,  and  therefore 
sold  cheaply,  can  be  made  very  good.  Yet  you  must 
remember,  that  a  piece  of  meat  at  seven  cents  a  pound, 
in  which  there  is  at  least  half  fat  and  bone,  such  as 
brisket,  etc.,  is  less  economical  than  solid  meat  at  ten  or 
twelve. 

Pot  roasts  are  very  good  for  parts  of  meat  not  tender 
enough  for  roasting,  the  ^^ cross-rib,'^  as  some  butch- 
ers term  it,  being  very  good  for  this  purpose ;  it  is  all 
solid  meat,  and  being  very  lean,  requires  a  little  fat  pork, 
which  may  be  laid  at  the  bot'om  of  the  pot;  or  better 
still,  holes  made  in  the  meat  and  pieces  of  the  fat  drawn 
through,  larding  in  a  rough  way,  so  that  they  cut  to- 
gether. A  pot  roast  is  best  put  on  in  an  iron  pot,  with- 
out water,  allowed  to  get  finely  brown  on  one  side,  then 
turned,  and  when  thoroughly  brown  on  the  other  a  little 
water  may  be  added  for  gravy  ;    chop  parsley  or  any 


100  Culture  and  Cooking, 

seasoning  that  is  preferred.  Giye  your  roast  at  least 
three  hours  to  cook.  Ox  cheek,  as  the  head  is  called,  is 
very  good,  and  should  be  yery  cheap  ;  prepare  it  thus  : 

Clean  the  cheek,  soak  it  in  water  six  hours,  and  cut 
the  meat  from  the  bones,  which  break  up  for  soup ; 
then  take  the  meat,  cut  into  neat  pieces,  put  it  in  an 
earthen  crock,  a  layer  of  beef,  some  thin  pieces  of  pork 
or  bacon,  some  onions,  carrots,  and  turnips,  cut  tMriy  or 
chopped  fine,  and  sprinkled  oyer  the  meat ;  also,  some 
chopped  parsley,  a  little  thyme,  and  bay  leaf,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  cloye  to  each  layer  ;  then  more  beef  and 
a  little  pork,  yegetables,  and  seasoning,  as  before.  When 
all  your  meat  is  in  poar  oyer  it,  if  you  haye  it,  a  tum- 
bler of  hard  cider  and  one  of  water,  or  else  two  of  water, 
in  which  put  a  half  gill  of  yinegar.  If  you  haye  no 
tight-fitting  coyer  to  your  crock,  put  a  paste  of  flour  and 
water  oyer  it  to  keep  the  steam  in.  Place  the  crock  in  a 
slow  oyen  fiye  or  six  hours,  and  when  it  is  taken  out  re- 
move the  crust  and  skim.  Any  piece  of  beef  cooked  in 
this  way  is  excellent. 

Ox  heart  is  one  of  the  cheapest  of  dishes,  and  really 
remarkably  nice,  and  it  is  much  used  by  economical  peo- 
ple abroad. 

The  heart  should  be  soaked  in  yinegar  and  water  three 
or  four  hours,  then  cut  off  the  lobes  and  gristle,  and 
stuff  it  with  fat  pork  chopped,  bread-crumbs,  parsley, 
thyme,  pepper,  and  salt ;  then  tie  it  in  a  cloth  and  very 
slowly  simmer  it  (large  end  up)  for  two  hours ;  take  it 
up,  remove  the  cloth,  and  flour  it,  and  roast  it  a  nice 
brown.  Lay  in  the  pan  in  which  it  is  to  be  roasted  some 
fat  pork  to  baste  it.  Any  of  this  left  oyer  is  excellent 
hashed,  or,  warmed  in  slices  with  a  rich  brown  gravy,  can- 
not be  told  from  game.     Another  way  is  to  stuff  it  with 


Chapter  for  People  of  Very  Small  Means,    loi 

sage  and  onions.  It  must  always  be  seryed  very  hot  with 
hot  plates  and  on  a  very  hot  dish. 

Fore  quarter  of  mutton  is  another  yery  economical  part 
of  meat^  if  you  get  your  butcher  to  cut  it  so  that  it  may 
not  only  be  economical^  but  really  afford  a  choice  joint. 
Do  not  then  let  him  hack  the  shoulder  across^  but^  before 
he  does  a  thing  to  it,  get  him  to  take  the  shoulder  out  in 
a  round  plate- shaped  joint,  with  knuckle  attached ;  if 
he  does  this  well,  that  is,  cuts  it  close  to  the  bone  of  the 
ribs,  you  will  haye  a  nice  joint ;  then  do  not  haye  it 
chopped  at  all ;  this  should  be  roasted  in  the  oyen  yery 
nicely,  and  seryed  with  onion  sauce  or  stewed  onions.  If 
onions  are  not  liked,  mashed  turnips  are  the  appro- 
priate yegetable.  This  joint,  to  be  enjoyed,  must  be 
properly  caryed,  and  that  is,  across  the  middle  from  the 
edge  to  the  bone,  the  same  as  a  leg  of  mutton ;  and  like 
the  leg,  you  must  learn,  as  I  cannot  describe  it  in  words, 
where  the  bone  lies,  then  have  that  side  nearest  you  and 
cut  from  the  opposite  side. 

You  haye,  besides  this  joint,  another  roast  from  the 
ribs,  or  else  cut  it  up  into  chops  till  you  come  to  the 
part  under  the  shoulder ;  from  this  the  breast  should  be 
separated  and  both  either  made  into  a  good  Irish  stew, 
or  the  breast  prepared  alone  in  a  way  I  shall  describe, 
the  neck  and  thin  ribs  being  stewed  or  boiled. 

The  neck  of  mutton  is  yery  tender  boiled  and  seryed 
with  parsley  or  caper  sauce ;  the  liquor  it  is  boiled  in 
seryed  as  broth,  with  yegetables  and  rice,  or  prepared  as 
directed  in  a  former  chapter  for  the  broth  from  leg  of 
mutton. 

The  mode  I  am  about  to  giye  of  preparing  breast  of 
mutton  was  told  me  by  a  Welsh  lady  of  rank,  at  whose 
table  I  ate  it  (it  appeared  as  a  side  dish),  and  who  said. 


102  Culture  and  Cooking. 

half  laughingly,  '^  Will  you  take  some  '  fluff  ^  ?  We  are 
yery  fond  of  it,  but  breast  of  mutton  is  such  a  despised 
dish  I  never  expect  any  one  else  to  like  it."'  I  took  it, 
on  my  principle  of  trying  everything,  and  did  find  it 
very  good.  This  lady  told  me  that,  having  of  course  a 
good  deal  of  mutton  killed  on  her  father's  estate,  and  the 
breast  being  always  despised  by  the  servants,  she  had  in- 
vented a  way  of  using  it  to  avoid  waste.    Her  way  was  this : 

Set  the  breast  of  mutton  on  the  fire  whole,  just  cov- 
ered with  water  in  which  is  a  little  salt.  When  it  comes 
to  the  boil  draw  it  back  and  let  it  simmer  three  hours  ; 
then  take  it  up  and  draw  out  the  bones,  and  lay  a  force- 
meat of  bread-crumbs,  parsley,  thyme,  chopped  suet, 
salt  and  pepper  all  over  it ;  double  or  roll  it,  skewer  it, 
and  coat  it  thickly  with  egg  and  bread-crumbs ;  then 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  basting  it  often  with  nice  drip- 
ping or  butter ;  when  nicely  brown  it  is  done,  and  eats 
like  the  tenderest  lamb.  It  was,  when  I  saw  it,  served  on 
a  bed  of  spinach.  I  like  it  better  on  a  bed  of  stewed 
onions. 

I  now  give  some  dishes  made  without  meat. 

Kagout  oe  Cucumbee  and  0:n-ions.— Fry  equal 
quantities  of  large  cucumbers  and  onions  in  slices  until 
they  are  a  nice  brown.  The  cucumber  will  brown  more 
easily  if  cut  up  and  put  to  drain  some  time  before  using ; 
then  flour  each  slice.  When  both  are  brown,  pour  on 
them  a  cup  of  water,  and  let  them  stew  for  half  an  hour ; 
then  take  a  good  piece  of  butter  in  which  you  have 
worked  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour  (browned)  ;  add  pep- 
per, salt,  and  a  little  tomato  catsup  or  stewed  tomato. 
This  is  a  rich-eating  dish  if  nicely  made,  and  will  help 
out  cold  meat  or  a  scant  quantity  of  it  very  well.  A 
little  cold  meat  may  be  added  if  you  have  it. 


Chapter  for  People  of  Very  Small  Means.    103 

Okion"  Soup. — Fry  six  large  onions  cut  into  slices 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  till  they  are  of  a 
bright  brown,  then  well  mix  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
and  pour  on  them  rather  more  than  a  quart  of  water. 
Stew  gently  until  the  onions  are  quite  tender,  season 
with  a  spoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  sugar  ;  stir  in  quickly 
a  liaison  made  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  mixed  with 
a  gill  of  milk  or  cream  (do  not  let  it  boil  afterwards), 
put  some  toast  in  a  tureen,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Pea  Soup.— Steep  some  yellow  split  peas  all  night,  next 
morning  set  them  on  to  boil  with  two  quarts  of  water  to  a 
pint  of  peas  ;  in  the  water  put  a  tiny  bit  of  soda.  In  an- 
other pot  put  a  large  carrot,  a  turnip,  an  onion,  and  a 
large  head  of  celery,  all  cut  small  and  covered  with  water. 
When  both  peas  and  vegetables  are  tender,  put  them 
together,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  sugar, 
and  let  them  gently  stew  till  thick  enough  ;  then  strain 
through  a  colander,  rubbing  the  vegetables  well,  and 
return  to  the  pot  while  you  fry  some  sippets  of  bread  a 
crisp  brown  ;  then  stir  into  the  soup  two  ounces  of  but- 
ter in  which  you  have  rolled  a  little  flour. 

This  soup  is  simply  delicious,  and  the  fact  of  it  being 
maigre  will  not  be  remembered. 

Potato  Soup  is  another  of  this  good  kind,  for  meat  is 
scarcely  required,  so  good  is  it  without. 

Boil  some  potatoes,  then  rub  them  through  a  colandar 
into  two  quarts  of  hot  milk  (skimmed  does  quite  well); 
have  some  fine-chopped  parsley  and  onion,  add  both 
with  salt  and  pepper,  stew  three  quarters  of  an  hour ; 
then  stir  in  a  large  piece  of  butter,  and  beat  two  eggs 
with  a  little  cold  milk,  stir  in  quickly,  and  serve  with 
fried  bread.  There  should  be  potatoes  enough  to  make 
the  soup  as  thick  as  cream. 


I04  Culture  and  Cooking. 

Do  not  be  prejudiced  against  a  dish  because  there  is 
no  meat  in  it,  and  you  think  it  cannot  be  nourishing. 
This  chapter  is  not  written  for  those  with  whom  meat, 
or  money,  is  plentiful  ;  and  if  it  be  true  that  man  is 
nourished  "  not  by  what  he  eats,  but  by  what  he  assim- 
ilates," and,  according  to  an  American  medical  author- 
ity, ^^what  is  eaten  with  distaste  is  not  assimilated" 
(Dr.  Hall),  it  follows  that  an  enjoyable  dinner,  even 
without  meat,  will  be  more  nourishing  than  one  forced 
down  because  it  lacks  savor  ;  that  potato  soup  will  be 
more  nourishing  than  potatoes  and  butter,  with  a  cup  of 
milk  to  drink,  because  more  enjoyable.  Yet  it  costs  no 
more,  for  the  soup  can  be  made  without  the  eggs  if  they 
are  scarce. 

Or  say  bread  and  butter  and  onions.  They  will  not 
be  very  appetizing,  especially  if  they  had  to  be  a  fre- 
quent meal,  yet  onion  soup  is  made  from  the  same  ma- 
terials, and  in  France  is  a  very  favorite  dish,  even  with 
those  well  able  to  put  meat  in  it  if  they  wished. 


CHAPTEE  XV. 

A   FEW  THIi^GS   IT  IS   WELL  TO   EEMEMBEE. 

Eyeey  housekeeper  has  pet  ^^  wrinkles  "  of  her  own 
which  she  thinks  are  especially  valuable  ;  some  are 
known  to  all  the  world,  others  are  new  to  many.  So 
it  may  be  with  mine  ;  but,  on  the  chance  that  some  few 
things  are  as  new  to  my  friends  as  they  were  to  me,  I 
jot  them  down  without  any  pretense  of  order  or  regu- 
larity. 

Lemons  will  keep  fresher  and  better  in  water  than  any 
other  way.  Put  them  in  a  crock,  cover  them  with  water. 
They  will  in  winter  keep  two  or  three  months,  and  the 
peel  be  as  fresh  as  the  day  they  were  put  in.  Take  care, 
of  course,  that  they  do  not  get  frosted.  In  summer 
change  the  water  twice  a  week ;  they  will  keep  a  long 
time. 

In  grating  nutmegs  begin  at  the  flower  end  ;  if  you 
commence  at  the  other,  there  will  be  a  hole  all  the  way 
through. 

Tea  or  coffee  made  hot  (not  at  all  scorched),  before 
water  is  added,  are  more  fragrant  and  stronger.  Thus, 
by  putting  three  spoonfuls  of  tea  in  the  pot  and  setting 
in  a  warm  place  before  infusing,  it  will  be  as  strong  as 
if  you  make  tea  with  four  spoonfuls  without  warming  it, 
and  much  more  fragrant. 

Vegetables  that  are  strong  can  be  made  much  milder 
5^  105 


io6  Culture  and  Cooking. 

by  tying  a  bit  of  bread  in  a  clean  rag  and  boiling  it  with 
them. 

Bread  dough  is  just  as  good  made  the  day  before  it  is 
used  ;  thus,  a  small  family  can  have  fresh  bread  one  day, 
rolls  the  next,  by  putting  the  dough  in  a  cold  place  en- 
yeloped  in  a  damp  cloth.  In  winter,  kept  cold,  yet  not 
in  danger  of  freezing,  it  will  keep  a  week. 

Celery  seed  takes  the  place  of  celery  for  soup  or  stews 
when  it  is  scarce  ;  parsley  seed  of  parsley. 

Green  beans,  gherkins,  etc.,  put  down  when  plentiful 
in  layers  of  rock  salt,  will  keep  crisp  and  green  for 
months,  and  can  be  taken  out  and  pickled  when  con- 
venient. 

Lemon  or  orange  peel  grated  and  mixed  with  powdered 
sugar  and  a  squeeze  of  its  own  juice  (the  sugar  making 
it  into  paste)  is  excellent  to  keep  for  flayoring ;  put  it 
into  a  little  pot  and  it  will  keep  for  a  year. 

Bread  that  is  very  stale  may  be  made  quite  fresh  for 
an  hour  or  two  by  dipping  it  quickly  into  milk  or  water, 
and  putting  it  in  a  brisk  oven  till  quite  hot  through.  It 
must  be  eaten  at  once,  or  it  will  be  as  stale  as  ever  when 
cold. 

Meat  to  be  kept  in  warm  weather  should  be  rubbed  over 
with  salad  oil,  every  crevice  filled  with  ginger  ;  meat  that 
is  for  roasting  or  frying  is  much  better  preserved  in  this 
way  than  with  salt ;  take  care  that  every  part  of  the  sur- 
face has  a  coat  of  oil.  Steaks  or  chops  cut  off,  which 
always  keep  badly,  should  be  dipped  into  warm  butter  or 
even  dripping,  if  oil  is  not  handy  (the  object  being  to 
exclude  the  air),  and  then  hung  up  till  wanted. 

Mutton  in  cold  weather  should  be  hung  four  or  five 
weeks  in  a  place  not  subject  to  changes  of  temperature, 
and  before  it  is  so  hung,  every  crevice  filled  with  ginger 


A  Few   Things  it  is   Well  to  Remember,      107 

and  thoroughly  dredged  with  flour^  which  must  be  then 
rubbed  in  with  the  hand  till  the  surface  is  quite  dry. 
This  is  the  English  fashion  of  keeping  yenison. 

It  may  be  useful  for  those  who  burn  kerosene  to  know 
that  when  their  lamps  smell,  give  a  bad  light,  and  smoke, 
it  is  not  necessary  to  buy  new  burners.  Put  the  old 
ones  in  an  old  saucepan  with  water  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  soda,  let  them  boil  half  an  hour,  wipe  them,  and 
your  trouble  will  be  over. 

Meat  that  has  become  slightly  tainted  may  be  quite 
restored  by  washing  it  in  water  in  which  is  a  teaspoonful 
of  borax,  cutting  away  eyery  part  in  the  least  discolored. 

In  summer  when  meat  comes  from  the  butcher's,  if  it 
is  not  going  to  be  used  the  same  day,  it  should  be  washed 
oyer  with  yinegar. 

Poultry  in  summer  should  always  haye  a  piece  of 
charcoal  tied  in  a  rag  placed  in  the  stomach,  to  be  re- 
moyed  before  cooking.  Pieces  of  charcoal  should  also 
be  put  in  the  refrigerator  and  changed  often. 

Oyster  shells  put  one  at  a  time  in  a  sfcoye  that  is 
^^clinkered"  will  clean  the  bricks  entirely.  They 
should  be  put  in  when  the  fire  is  burning  brightly. 

Salt  and  soapstone  powder  (to  be  bought  at  the  drug- 
gist's) mend  fire  brick  ;  use  equal  quantities,  make  into  a 
paste  with  water,  and  cement  the  brick  ;  they  will  be  as 
strong  as  new  ones. 

Ink  spilled  on  carpets  may  be  entirely  remoyed  by 
rubbing  while  wet  with  blotting  paper,  using  fresh  as 
it  soils. 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

OK    SOME    TABLE    PEEJUDICES. 

Mai^y  people  haye  strong  prejudices  against  certain 
things  which  they  have  never  even  tasted,  or  which  they 
do  frequently  take  and  like  as  a  part  of  something  else, 
without  knowing  it.  How  common  it  is  to  hear  and 
see  untrayeled  people  declare  that  they  dislike  garlic, 
and  could  not  touch  anything  with  it  in.  Yet  those 
yery  people  will  take  Worcestershire  sauce,  in  which  gar- 
lic is  actually  predominant,  with  everything  they  eat ; 
and  think  none  but  English  pickles  eatable,  which 
owe  much  of  their  excellence  to  the  introduction  of  a 
soupQon  of  garlic.  Therefore  I  beg  those  who  actually 
only  know  garlic  from  hearsay  abuse  of  it,  or  from  its 
presence  on  the  breath  of  some  inveterate  garlic  eater, 
to  give  it  a  fair  trial  when  it  appears  in  a  recipe.  It  is 
just  one  of  those  things  that  require  the  most  delicate 
handling,  for  which  the  French  term  a  ^'  suspicion  ^^  is 
most  appreciated  ;  it  should  only  be  a  suspicion,  its 
presence  should  never  be  pronounced.  As  Blot  once 
begged  his  readers,  ^^Give  garlic  a  fair  trial  in  a  remo- 
lade  sauce.''  (Montpellier  butter  beaten  into  mayonnaise 
is  a  good  remolade  for  cold  meat  or  fish.) 

Curry  is  one  of  those  things  against  which  many  are 
strongly  prejudiced,  and  I  am   inclined  to  think  it  is 

108 


On  Some  Table  Prejudices.  109 

quite  an  acquired  taste,  but  a  taste  which  is  an  envi- 
able one  to  its  possessors ;  for  them  there  is  endless 
yariety  in  all  they  eat.  The  capabilities  of  curry  are 
yery  little  known  in  this  country,  and,  as  the  taste  for 
it  is  so  limited,  I  will  not  do  more  in  its  defense  than 
indicate  a  pleasant  use  to  which  it  may  be  put,  and  in 
which  form  it  would  be  a  welcome  condiment  to  many 
to  whom  "d.  curry,"  pure  and  simple,  would  be  obnox- 
ious. I  once  knew  an  Anglo-Indian  who  used  curry  as 
most  people  use  cayenne  ;  it  was  put  in  a  pepper-box, 
and  with  it  he  would  at  times  pepper  his  fish  or  kidneys, 
even  his  eggs.  Used  in  this  way,  it  imparts  a  delightful 
piquancy  to  food,  and  is  neither  hot  nor  "  spicy." 

Few  people  are  so  prejudiced  as  the  English  generally, 
and  the  stay-at-home  Americans  ;  but  the  latter  are  to 
be  taught  by  travel,  the  Englishman  rarely. 

The  average  Briton  leaves  his  island  shores  with  the 
conviction  that  he  will  get  nothing  fit  to  eat  till  he  gets 
back,  and  that  he  will  have  to  be  uncommonly  careful 
once  across  the  channel,  or  he  will  be  having  fricasseed 
frogs  palmed  on  him  for  chicken.  Poor  man!  in  his 
horror  of  frogs,  he  does  not  know  that  the  Paris  res- 
taurateur who  should  give  the  costly  frog  for  chicken, 
would  soon  end  in  the  bankruptcy  court. 

''  If  I  could  only  get  a  decent  dinner,  a  good  roast 
and  plain  potato,  I  would  like  Paris  much  better,"  said 
an  old  Englishman  to  me  once  in  that  gay  city. 

^*But  surely  you  can." 

^^No  ;  I  have  been  to  restaurants  of  every  class,  and 
called  for  beefsteak  and  roast  beef,  but  have  never  got 
the  real  article,  although  it's  my  belief,"  said  he,  lean- 
ing forward  solemnly,  ^^that  I  have  eaten  liOTse  three 
times  this  week."     Of  course  the  Englishman  of  rank. 


no  Culture  and  Cooking, 

who  has  spent  half  his  life  on  the  continent,  is  not  at  all 
the  average  Englishman. 

Americans  think  the  hare  and  rabbits,  of  which  the 
English  make  such  good  use,  yery  mean  food  indeed, 
and  if  they  are  unprejudiced  enough  to  try  them,  from 
the  fact  that  they  are  never  well  cooked,  they  dislike 
them,  which  prejudice  the  English  reciprocate  by  look- 
ing on  squirrels  as  being  as  little  fit  for  food  as  a  rat. 
And  a  familiar  instance  of  prejudice  from  ignorance 
carried  eyen  to  insanity,  is  that  of  the  Irish  in  1848, 
starving  rather  than  eat  the  ^^yaller  male,"  sent  them 
by  generous  American  sympathizers ;  yet  they  come  here 
and  soon  get  oyer  that  dislike.  Not  so  the  French,  who 
look  on  oatmeal  and  Indian  meal  as  most  unwholesome 
food.  ^^  Qa  pese  sur  Testomac,  ga  creitse  Vestomac,^^  I 
heard  an  old  Frenchwoman  say,  trying  to  dissuade  a 
mother  from  giving  her  children  mush. 

The  moral  of  all  of  which  is,  that  for  our  comfort's 
sake,  and  the  general  good  we  should  avoid  unreason- 
able prejudices  against  unfamiliar  food.  We  of  course 
have  a  right  to  our  honest  dislikes  ;  but  to  condemn 
things  because  we  have  heard  them  despised,  is  pre- 
judice. 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

A   CHAPTEE   OP   ODDS   AI^D   EKDS. 

I  HAVE  alluded,  in  an  earlier  chapter,  to  the  fact  that 
many  inexperienced  cooks  are  afraid  of  altering  recipes  ; 
a  few  words  on  this  subject  may  not  be  out  of  place.  As 
a  rule,  a  recipe  should  be  faithfully  followed  in  all  im- 
portant points ;  for  instance,  in  making  soup  you  can- 
not, because  you  are  short  of  the  given  quantity  of  meat, 
put  the  same  amount  of  water  as  directed  for  the  full 
quantity,  without  damaging  your  soup  ;  but  you  may  eas- 
ily reduce  water  and  every  other  ingredient  in  the  same 
proportion ;  and,  in  mere  matters  of  flavoring,  you  may 
vary  to  suit  circumstances.  If  you  are  told  to  use  cloves, 
and  have  none,  a  bit  of  mace  may  be  substituted. 

If  you  read  a  recipe,  and  it  calls  for  something  you 
have  not,  consider  whether  that  something  has  anything 
to  do  with  the  substance  of  the  dish,  or  whether  it  is 
merely  an  accessory  for  which  something  else  can  be 
substituted.  For  instance,  if  you  are  ordered  to  use 
cream  in  a  sauce,  milk  with  a  larger  amount  of  well- 
washed  butter  may  take  its  place  ;  but  if  you  are  told  to 
use  cream  for  charlotte  russe  or  trifles,  there  is  no  way  in 
which  you  could  make  milk  serve,  since  it  is  not  an 
accessory  but  the  chief  part  of  those  dishes.  For  a 
cake  in  which  cream  is  used,  butter  whipped  to  a  cream 
may  take  its  place.  Wine  is  usually  optional  in  savory 
dishes  ;  it  gives  richness  only. 

Ill 


112  Culture  and  Cooking. 

Again,  in  cakes  be  very  careful  the  exact  proportions 
of  flour,  eggs,  and  milk  are  observed  ;  of  butter  you  can 
generally  use  more  or  less,  having  a  more  or  less  rich 
cake  in  proportion.  In  any  but  plain  cup  cakes  (which 
greatly  depend  on  soda  and  acid  for  their  lightness) 
never  lessen  the  allowance  of  eggs  ;  never  add  milk  if  a 
cake  is  too  stiff  (but  an  extra  ^gg  may  always  be  used), 
unless  milk  is  ordered  in  the  recipe,  when  more  or  less 
may  be  used  as  needed.     Flavoring  may  be  always  varied. 

In  reducing  a  recipe  always  reduce  every  ingredient, 
and  it  can  make  no  difference  in  the  results.  Some- 
times, in  cookery  books,  you  are  told  to  use  articles  not 
frequently  found  in  ordinary  kitchens ;  for  instance,  a 
larding-npedle  (although  that  cau  be  bought  for  twenty- 
five  cents  at  any  house-furnishing  store,  and  should  al- 
ways be  in  a  kitchen)  ;  but,  in  case  you  have  not  one  for 
meat,  you  may  manage  by  making  small  cuts  and  insert- 
ing slips  of  bacon. 

Another  article  that  is  very  useful,  but  seldom,  if  ever, 
to  be  found  in  small  kitchens,  is  a  salamander  ;  but  when 
you  wish  to  brown  the  top  of  a  dish,  and  putting  it  in 
the  oven  would  not  do,  or  the  oven  is  not  quick  enough 
to  serve,  an  iron  shovel,  made  nearly  red,  and  a  few  red 
cinders  in  it,  is  a  very  good  salamander.  It  must  be 
held  over  the  article  that  requires  browning  near  enough 
to  color  it,  yet  not  to  burn. 

In  the  recipes  I  have  given  nothing  is  required  that 
cannot  be  obtained,  with  more  or  less  ease,  in  ]^ew  York. 
For  syrups,  fruit  juices,  etc.,  apply  to  your  druggist;  if 
he  has  not  them  he  will  tell  you  where  to  obtain  them. 
We  often  make  up  our  minds  that  because  a  thing  is  not 
commonly  used  in  this  country,  it  is  impossible  to  get  it. 
Eeally  there  are  very  few  things  not  to  be  got  in  New 


Chapter  of  Odds  and  Ends.  113 

York  City  to  the  intelligent  seeker.  Yon  need  an  arti- 
cle of  French  or  Italian  or  may  be  English  grocery,  that 
yonr  grocer,  a  first-class  one,  perhaps,  has  not,  and  you 
make  up  your  mind  you  cannot  get  it.  But  go  into  the 
quarters  where  French  peoj)le  live,  and  you  can  get 
eyerything  belonging  to  the  French  cuisine.  So  preju- 
diced are  the  French  in  favor  of  the  productions  of  la 
belle  Francey  that  they  do  not  belieye  in  our  parsley  or 
our  chives  or  garlic  or  shallots  ;  for  I  know  at  least  one 
French  grocer  who  imports  them  for  his  customers.  On 
being  asked  why  he  brought  them  from  France  to  a 
country  where  those  very  things  were  plentiful,  he  an- 
swered : 

^^Oh,  French  herbs  are  much  finer.'' 

Needless  to  say  tarragon  is  one  of  the  herbs  so  import- 
ed, and  can  thus  be  bought ;  but,  as  several  New  Jersey 
truck  gardeners  grow  all  kinds  of  French  herbs,  they  can 
be  got  in  Washington  Market,  and  most  druggists  keep 
them  dried ;  but  for  salads,  Montpellier  butter,  and  some 
other  uses,  the  dried  herb  would  not  do,  although  for 
flavoring  it  would  serve ;  but  the  far  better  way  is  to 
grow  them  for  yourself,  as  I  have  done.  Any  large 
seedsman  will  supply  you  with  burnet,  tarragon,  and 
borage  (very  useful  for  salads,  punch,  etc.)  seeds,  and  if 
you  live  in  the  country,  have  an  herb  bed  ;  if  in  town, 
there  are  few  houses  where  there  is  not  ground  enough 
to  serve  for  the  purpose ;  but  even  in  these  few  houses 
one  can  have  a  box  of  earth  in  the  kitchen  window,  in 
which  your  seeds  will  flourish. 

Parsley  is  a  thing  in  almost  daily  request  in  winter, 

yet  it  is  very  expensive  to  buy  it  constantly  for  the  sake 

of  using  the  small  spray  that  often  suffices.     It  is  a  good 

plan,  therefore,  in  fall,  to  get  a  few  roots,  plant  them  in 

8 


114  Culture  and  Cooking. 

a  pot  or  box,  and  they  will  flourish  all  winter,  if  kept 
where  they  will  not  freeze,  and  be  ready  for  garnishing 
at  any  minute. 

Always,  as  far  as  your  means  allow,  have  every  con- 
venience for  cooking.  By  having  utensils  proper  for 
every  purpose  you  save  a  great  deal  of  work  and  much 
vexation  of  spirit.  Yet  it  should  be  no  excuse  for  bad 
work  that  such  utensils  are  not  at  hand.  A  willing  and 
intelligent  cook  will  make  the  best  of  what  she  has. 
Apropos  of  this  very  thing  Gouffe  relates  that  a  friend 
of  his,  an  ^^ artist'^  of  renown,  was  sent  for  to  the 
chateau  of  a  Baron  Argenteuil,  who  had  taken  a  large 
company  with  him,  unexpectedly  crowding  the  chateau 
in  every  part.  He  was  shown  into  a  dark  passage  in 
which  a  plank  was  suspended  from  the  ceiling,  and  told 
this  was  to  be  his  kitchen.  He  had  to  fashion  his  own 
utensils,  for  there  was  nothing  provided,  and  his  pastry 
he  had  to  bake  in  a  frying-pan — besides  building  two 
monumental  plats  on  that  board — and  prepare  a  cold  en- 
tree. But  he  cheerfully  set  to  work  to  overcome  diffi- 
culties, achieved  his  task,  and  was  rewarded  by  the  plau- 
dits of  the  diners.  Such  difficulties  as  these  our  servants 
never  have  to  encounter,  and  a  cheerful  endeavor  to 
make  the  best  of  everything  should  be  the  rule.  Yet, 
let  us  spare  them  all  the  labor  we  can,  or  rather  make  it 
as  easy  and  pleasant  as  possible ;  they  will  be  more 
proud  of  their  well-furnished  kitchen,  more  cheerful  in 
it,  than  they  will  of  one  where  everything  for  their,  con- 
venience is  grudged,  and  such  pride  and  cheerfulness 
will  be  your  gain. 

There  is  always  a  great  deal  of  talk  about  servants  in 
America,  how  bad  and  inefficient  they  are,  how  badly 
they  contrast  with  those  of  England.     Certainly,  they 


Chapter  of  Odds  and  Ends,  115 

are  not  so  efficient  as  those  of  the  older  conntry ;  how 
could  they  be  ?  There^  girls  who  are  intended  for  servants 
haye  ever  held  before  their  eyes  what  they  may  or  may 
not  do  in  the  future  calling,  and  how  it  is  to  be  done. 
But  take  one  of  these  orderly,  efficient  girls,  put  her  in 
an  American  family  as  general  servant  or  as  cook,  where 
two  are  kept,  washing  and  ironing  to  do,  and  a  variety 
of  other  work,  and  see  how  your  English  servant  would 
stare  at  your  requirements.  She  has  been  accustomed  to 
her  own  line  of  work  at  home ;  if  housemaid,  she  has 
been  dressed  for  the  day  at  noon ;  if  cook,  she  has  never 
done  even  her  own  washing. 

She  may,  and  will  no  doubt,  fall  into  the  way  of  the 
country,  after  a  while,  and  on  account  of  her  early  habits 
of  respect,  will  make  a  good  servant  perhaps.  But  many 
of  them  would  be  quite  indignant  at  being  asked  to  do 
the  average  servant's  work  here.  I  am  speaking  now  of 
the  trained  servants  ;  but,  comparing  the  London  "  maid- 
of-all-work"  or  ^^  slavey  "  with  our  own  general  servants, 
and  considering  how  much  more  is  expected  of  the  latter, 
the  comparison  seems  to  me  vastly  in  the  favor  of  our  own 
Bridgets.  We  may  rest  assured,  however  smoothly  the 
wheels  of  household  management  glide  along  in  wealthy 
families  across  the  water,  people  who  can  only  keep  one 
or  two  have  all  our  troubles  with  servants  and  a  few 
added,  and  their  faults  are  just  as  general  a  subject  of 
conversation  among  ladies. 

France  (out  of  Paris,  from  Parisian  servants  deliver 
me  ! )  and  Germany  seem  the  favored  lands  where  one 
servant  does  the  work  of  three  or  four.  Yet  even  they, 
are,  they  say,  degenerating.  Let  us,  then,  be  contented 
and  make  the  best  of  what  we  have,  assured  that  even 
Biddy  is  not  so  hopeless  as  she  is  painted.     Kindness 


ii6  Culture  and  Cooking. 

(not  weakness),  firmness,  and  patience  work  wonders, 
eyen  with  the  roughest  Emerald  that  eyer  crossed  the 
sea. 

I  haye  said  somewhere  else  that  you  must  beware  of  at- 
tempting too  much  at  once  ;  perfect  yourself  in  one  thing 
before  you  attempt  another.  Take  breaded  chops  or 
fried  oysters,  make  opportunities  for  haying  them  rather 
often,  and  do  not  rest  satisfied  until  you  haye  them  as 
well  fried  as  you  haye  eyer  seen  them  anywhere  ;  "  prac- 
tice makes  perfect,"  and  you  certainly  will  achieye  per- 
fection if  you  are  not  discouraged  by  one  failure.  But 
aboye  all  things  neyer  make  experiments  for  company  ; 
let  them  be  made  when  it  really  matters  little  whether 
you  succeed  or  not,  and  let  your  experiments  be  on  a 
small  scale  ;  don't  attempt  to  fry  a  large  dish  of  oysters 
or  chops  until  it  is  a  yery  easy  task,  or  make  more  than 
half  a  pound  of  puff  paste  at  first ;  for  if  you  fail  with  a 
large  task  before  you,  you  will  be  tired  and  disheartened, 
hate  the  sight  of  what  you  are  doing,  and,  as  a  conse- 
quence, not  be  likely  to  return  to  it  yery  soon.  The  same 
may  be  said  of  cooks  ;  some  of  them  are  yery  fond  of  ex- 
periments, which  taste  I  should  always  encourage  ;  but  do 
not  let  them  jump  from  one  experiment  to  the  other ; 
if  they  try  a  dish  and  fail,  they  often  make  up  their 
minds  that  the  fault  is  not  theirs,  that  it  is  not  worth 
while  to  ''  bother  '^  with  it.  Here  your  knowledge  will  be 
of  seryice  ;  you  will  show  them  that  it  can  be  done,  how 
it  should  be  done,  and  order  the  dish  cook  failed  in,  fre- 
quently, giying  it  sufficient  suryeillance  to  preyent  your 
family  suffering  from  her  inexperience  ;  for,  as  a  witty 
Frenchman  said  of  Mme.  du  Deffaud's  cook,  ^'  Between 
her  and  Brinyilliers  there  is  only  the  difference  of  in- 
tention." 


Chapter  of  Odds  and  Ends^  117 

Few  things  add  more  to  a  man  or  woman's  social  repu- 
tation than  the  fact  that  they  keep  a  good  table.  It 
need  not  be  one  where 

"  The  strong  table  groans 
Beneath  the  smoking  sirloin  stretched  immense  ; " 

but  a  table  where  whateyer  you  do  have  will  be  good, 
be  it  pork  and  beans,  or  salmi  ;  the  pork  and  beans 
would  satisfy  a  Bostonian,  the  salmi  Grimod  de  la  Eey- 
niere  himself.     I  do  not  admit  with  Di  Walcott  that 

*'  The  turnpike  road  to  people's  hearts  I  find 
Lies  through  their  mouths,  or  I  mistake  mankind." 

But  it  is  a  fact  that  good  liying — by  this  I  do  not 
mean  extravagant  liying — presupposes  good  breeding. 
Well-bred  people  sometimes  liye  badly ;  but  ill-bred 
people  seldom  or  eyer  liye  well,  in  the  right  sense  of 
the  term. 

Now,  by  way  of  valedictory,  let  me  repeat  that  I  do 
not  think  a  lady's  best  or  proper  place  is  the  kitchen  ; 
but  it  is  quite  possible  to  have  a  perfectly  served  table, 
yet  spend  very  little  time  there.  Only  that  one  little 
hour  a  day  that  Talleyrand,  the  busy  man  full  of  intrigue 
and  statecraft,  found  time  to  spend  with  his  cook,  would 
insure  your  table  being  well  served.  For,  after  devoting 
say  a  few  winter  months  to  perfecting  yourself  in  a  few 
things,  you  will  be  able  to  teach  your  cook,  who  is  often 
ambitious  to  excel  if  put  in  the  right  way.  A  word  here 
about  cooks. 

The  knowledge  that  if  they  fail  to  do  a  thing  well 
you  will  do  it  yourself,  will  often  put  them  on  their 
mettle  to  do  their  best ;  while  the  feeling  that  you  don't 
know,  will  make  them  careless. 


Il8  Culture  and  Cooking. 

Seryants  have  a  great  deal  more  amour  propre  than 
people  imagine  ;  therefore,  stimulate  it  by  judicious 
praise  and  appreciation  ;  let  them  think  that  to  send  in  a 
dish  perfect,  is  a  glory  to  themselves  as  well  as  a  pleasure 
to  you.  While  careful  to  remark  when  alone  with  them 
upon  any  fault  that  results  from  carelessness,  be  equally 
careful  to  give  all  the  praise  you  can,  and  repeat  to 
them  complimentary  remarks  that  may  have  been  made 
on  their  skill.  Servants  are  usually — such  is  the  weak- 
ness of  feminine  nature,  whether  in  the  drawing-room 
or  the  kitchen — very  sensitive  to  the  praise  or  blame  of 
the  gentlemen  of  the  family.  Indulge  poor  humanity  a 
little  when  you  honestly  can. 


PAET   IL 

PRACTICAL    RECIPES 


CHAPTER   XVIII. 

BREAKFAST  BREADS. 

Although  breads  were  very  fully  treated  of  in  the 
first  part  of  this  booK:,  a  few  breakfast  and  tea-cakes 
more  quickly  made  may  not  be  out  of  place. 

SOUFPLEE    ROLLS. 

Melt  a  tablespoonf ul  of  butter  in  half  a  pint  of  milk; 
Avhen  blood-warm  put  in  half  a  cake  of  compressed 
yeast,  a  beaten  egg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a 
saltspoonful  of  salt.  When  the  yeast  is  dissolved,  stir 
in  a  cup  and  a-half  of  flour  well  djied  and  quite  warm; 
beat  two  or  three  minutes  ;  it  should  be  too  thick  for 
batter,  and  not  thick  enough  for  dough — so  thick  that 
you  cannot  take  it  up  in  a  spoon  at  all;  cover  with  a  hot 
cloth,  and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  ;  it  will  rise  in  about 
two  hours  ;  if  you  have  time,  the  texture  will  be  better 
if  you  beat  it  down  and  let  it  rise  again  before  putting 
it  in  the  tins.  They  will  be  very  good,  however,  if  you 
simply  stir  it  down  well,  and  with   a  tablespoon  dipped 

119 


1  20  Practical  Recipes. 

in  flour,  fill  small  roll-pans  with  the  batter  rather  more 
than  half  full ;  let  them  rise  till  the  pans  are  full,  and 
then  bake  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  in  a  very  quick  oven; 
when  pale-brown  brush  them  oyer  with  a  little  syrup 
thinned  with  milk,  and  bake  till  quite  brown  ;  be  care- 
ful they  do  not  burn — the  syrup  causes  them  to  do  so 
easily. 

SCOTCH   SCOKES. 

Dissolye  half  a  saltspoonful  of  soda  and  two  ounces 
of  butter  or  lard  in  a  gill  of  warmed  sour  milk  ;  put 
ten  ounces  of  flour  and  a  little  salt  in  a  bowl ;  pour  the 
mixture  in  and  make  it  into  a  stiff  dough;  roll  it  out 
into  a  round  cake  half  an  inch  thick;  mark  it  in  eight 
sections  and  bake  on  a  griddle  fifteen  to  twenty  min- 
utes ;  split  and  butter  while  hot. 

scoi^ES  ]sro.  2. 

Melt  in  half  a  pint  of  milk  one  ounce  of  butter;  beat 
up  an  egg  and  stir  it  into  the  milk;  with  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt  add  enough  fine  flour  mixed  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder  to  make  a  yery  soft  dough  ;  flour  the 
board  thickly  and  make  into  round  cakes,  the  size  of  a 
small  plate,  an  inch  thick  ;  mark  into  sections  and  bake 
twenty  minutes  on  a  griddle  ;  split  and  butter  while 
hot. 

COKK   BREAD. 

One  quart  of  milk,  three  eggs,  two  cups  of  Indian 
meal,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two 
of  cream  of  tartar,  lard  half  the  size  of  an  ^gg^  one  leyel 
teaspoon  of  salt;  mix  Indian  meal  and  flour;  sift  cream 
of  tartar  to  them ;  stir  with  the  milk  into  a  smooth 


Breakfast  Breads,  121 

batter  ;  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  ;  stir  them  in;  melt 
the  lard  and  add  it;  then  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  foam 
and  stir  them  in  ;  dissolve  the  soda  in  yery  little  boiling 
water,  and  add  it  last  thing  ;  bake  in  a  yery  quick  oyen. 

CORK   MUFFIKS. 

One  cup  of  corn-meal,  one  of  flour,  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  butter,  two  eggs,  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

Mix  flour  and  meal  and  sugar  with  enough  milk  to 
make  a  stiff  batter  ;  beat  the  eggs,  melt  the  butter,  and 
add  them  to  it ;  stir  in  the  baking-powder  with  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  salt. 

EGG   BISCUITS. 

Sift  with  one  pint  of  flour  one  teaspoonful  of  baking- 
powder;  chop  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  till  fine  ; 
beat  one  egg  and  mix  it  with  half  a  cup  of  milk — part 
cream  is  much  better;  make  a  hole  in  the  flour  ;  put  in 
a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  pour  in  the  egg  and  milk; 
mix  altogether  into  a  soft  dough,  using  more  milk  if 
needful ;  roll  out  as  quickly  as  possible  half  an  inch 
thick  ;  cut  into  rounds  and  bake  in  a  quick  oyen. 

BATTER   BREAD. 

Two  eggs,  the  whites  beaten  separately,  a  small  cup 
of  flour,  the  same  of  milk  ;  mix  yolks,  flour  and  milk 
into  a  smooth  batter  ;  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  batter 
melted  and  a  little  salt  ;  then  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  till  they  stand  high,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
baking-powder  ;  mix  gently  after  the  whites  are  in  ; 
bake  in  a  well-buttered  tin  in  a  very  hot  oyen. 


12  2  Practical  Recipes, 

ENGLISH   MUFFINS. 

Dissolye  a  yeast-cake  (compressed)  in  a  pint  of  warm 
water,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  ;  mix  with  as  much 
warmed  flour  as  will  make  a  very  thick  batter — just  as 
thick  as  can  be  stirred  without  being  dough;  set  to  rise, 
and  when  like  a  honeycomb,  it  is  ready; /oz/r  the  griddle, 
which  must  be  moderately  hot ;  sprinkle  some  flour  in 
a  saucer  ;  take  with  tablespoon  dipped  into  flour  a  piece 
of  the  dough  as  large  as  a  croquet  ball ;  drop  it  in  the 
saucer  ;  swing  it  round  in  it  till  it  forms  a  round  mass, 
and  drop  it  on  the  griddle;  do  the  others  the  same  way; 
do  not  turn  them  till  they  look  almost  cooked  through, 
then  brown  them  on  the  other  side. 

English  muffins  are  never  baked  in  rings,  yet  if  rings 
were  made  three  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter  it  would 
save  much  trouble,  for  they  are  too  soft  to  handle,  and 
it  requires  knack  and  practice  to  shape  them  really  well 
with  the  saucer. 

They  are  better  made  the  day  before  they  are  to  be 
eaten;  they  should  be  split  a  little  all  round,  then  toasted 
on  both  sides  quite  crisp  ;  rip  them  open  quickly  and 
don't  attempt  to  spread  butter  on  them,  but  lay  it  in 
little  bits  all  over  each  piece  ;  put  them  together  again; 
butter  the  outside,  and  cut  them  once  across  and  set 
them  in  the  oven  for  the  butter  to  melt  ;  if  you  have 
eaten  them  this  way,  you  will  not  be  satisfied  with  hav- 
ing them  merely  made  hot  in  the  oven. 

QUICK   BISCUIT. 

Chop  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard  in  two  heaping 
cups  of  flour  in  which  you  have  sifted  a  teaspoonful  of 
baking-pow^der,  and  half  one  of  salt;  wet  with  milk  or 
water  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough  that  you  can  just 


Breakfast  Breads,  I  23 

roll  out ;  roll  it  out  half  an  inch  thick  and  cut  with  a 
cutter  into  round  cakes. 

BUTTERMILK    PUPFS. 

To  a  quart  of  sharp  buttermilk  put  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  baking-soda  ;  taste  ;  if  not  sweet  add  a  little  more  ; 
stir  into  it  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  of  sugar,  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter  that  will  drop  in 
lumps  from  a  spoon  ;  mix  it  all  up  very  quickly,  then 
drop  on  a  buttered  baking-pan  in  little  mounds. 

These  require  a  yery  hot  oven,  and  will  bake  in  seven 
minutes.  If  your  buttermilk  is  not  rich,  rub  a  little 
butter  into  the  flour  till  it  is  like  sand  ;  these  should 
only  take  about  twelve  minutes  from  the  time  you  be- 
gin them  till  they  are  out  of  the  oven ;  they  are  de- 
licious. 


OHAPTEE  XIX. 
OMELETTES. 


FEEi^CH    OMELETTE. 

Break  four  eggs;  beat  them^  but  not  very  much,  just 
so  that  you  can  take  them  up  without  strings;  put  a 
piece  of  butter  in  a  very  clean  smooth  frying-pan  and 
let  it  get  hot  but  not  burn;  put  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  in 
the  eggs,  and  pour  them  in  the  pan;  as  the  egg  sets,  shift 
it  from  the  sides  with  a  spoon  that  the  uncooked  part  may 
run  in  its  place;  do  not  let  it  quite  set;  fold  it  half  over; 
shake  the  pan  and  slip  the  omelette  off  on  to  a  dish. 

This  is  the  true  French  omelette.  It  has  one  drawback, 
it  must  be  eaten  at  ojice  or  it  will  be  tough  and  heavy. 
The  addition  of  a  little  milk — a  tabiespoonful  to  two 
eggs — tends  to  prevent  it  getting  tough  s^  quickly. 
Neither  of  these  omelettes  can  be  kept,  not  even  for  a 
minute,  and  for  that  reason  where  you  are  not  sure  of 
your  cook,  and  do  not  want  to  make  the  dish  with  your 
own  hands,  I  recommend  the  one  mentioned  on  page  45. 
It  is  good  till  cold  and  always  handsome,  yet  true  ome- 
lette lovers  would  not  approve  of  it. 

Any  kind  of  savory  omelette  is  but  a  variation  on  this 
plain  one. 

TOMATO    OMELETTE,    (tWO  WAYS). 

Make  some  good  tomato  sauce — see  recipe — very  hot, 

pour  it  in  the  dish  round  the  omelette. 

124 


Omelettes,  I  2  5 

Or,  Make  some  stewed  tomato  hot;  lay  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  it  on  the  omelette  before  you  double  it 
oyer.  #. 

OYSTER    OMELETTE. 

Fricassee  some  oysters  gCfe  for  oyster  patties;  lay  them 
on  the  omelette  before  folding  it. 

MUSHROOM    OMELETTE. 

Use  stewed  mushrooms  as  directed  for  oysters  and 
tomatoes. 

HAM   OMELETTE^ 

May  have  a  little  coolced  ham  chopped  and  put  in  before 
frying,  or  delicately  shaved  cold  ham  may  be  made  hot 
and  laid  between  the  omelette. 

In  short,  there  are  innumerable  ways  of  varying  ome- 
lettes which  it  would  be  mere  repetition  to  give  here. 


CHAPTER  XX. 
GENERAL  INSTRUCTIONS. 


CAKAMEL   POE    COLOKING. 

Put  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  in  a  small  thick 
saucepan,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water;  let  them  boil 
ten  minutes  over  a  quick  fire;  then  watch  it  till  it  colors 
golden;  it  will  soon  go  from  this  to  dark-brown;  when  it 
is  all  ilach  like  thick  molasses^  put  a  half  cup  of  hot 
water  to  it;  it  will  sputter,  but  never  mind  that;  stir  till 
it  is  all  dissolved;  then  let  it  boil  till  it  is  syrup;  pour  it 
into  a  bottle;  it  should  look  when  cold  like  black  molas- 
ses and  will  keep  for  years. 

BOUQUET  OF  SWEET  HEKBS. 

Tie  together  two  sprigs  of  parsley,  one  of  thyme,  one 
bay  leaf,  wrapping  them  round  so  that  they  will  not 
shed,  and  be  easy  to  take  out  of  the  gravy  or  soup. 

TO    CHOP    HERBS. 

Always  use  the  leaves  only,  never  the  stems;  gather 
the  leaves  firmly  between  the  thumb  and  three  fin- 
gers of  the  left  hand;  let  a  sharp  knife  shave  them 
through  as  you  push  them  forward  under  it;  turn  them 
round;  gather  them  up  again  and  cut  them  across  in  the 
same  way;  then  finish   by  chopping   with   both   hands. 

126 


General  Instructions.  I  2  7 

This  is  the  way  to  get  them  eiistely  and  eyekly 
CHOPPED.  When  sweet  herbs  are  called  for,  it  means 
three  parts  parsley,  two  parts  thyme,  one  part  mar- 
joram. 

GARKISHING. 

No  matter  how  well  a  dinner  may  be  cooked  if  it  is 
ill  served  it  will  lose  a  great  deal.  Everybody  should 
insist  on  the  dishes  being  well  arranged,  and  trimmed 
or  garnished  before  they  are  sent  to  table. 

Corned  beef  is  a  A^ery  homely  dish,  yet  if  the  carrots  and 
turnips  are  cut  into  nice  forms  and  served  round  it 
alternately,  with  here  and  there  a  sprig  of  green  pars- 
ley, it  will  look  far  more  appetizing  than  if  it  is  on  a 
bare  dish,  and  so  it  is  with  most  other  things,  from 
hash  to  croquettes. 

Parsley  is  probably  the  most  useful  garnish  we  have, 
yet  a  dish  garnished  with  parsley  does  not  mean  a 
kitchen-garden  of  it,  and  the  tendency  is  usually  to 
overdo.  The  mere  fact,  that  you  insist  on  the  dishes 
being  made  to  look  their  best,  tends  to  make  a 
cook  careful  in  her  cooking.  They  are  impressed  with 
the  fact  that  the  slap-dash  method  will  not  do.  An 
Hibernian  damsel  applied  to  me  for  a  place,  and  in  awe- 
struck tones,  as  if  it  enhanced  her  own  value  to  be  so 
near  the  rose,  told  me  her. sister  was  cook  to  Mr.  Y., 
who  never  had  a  dish  sent  to  table  without  '^  Varnish. ^^ 
My  thoughts  flew  to  ^^  glaze,''  and  as  it  was  rather  an 
advanced  form  of  cooking  for  our  locality,  I  asked  if  she 
herself  knew  how  to  make  the  ^^  Varnish."  A  bewil- 
dered look  passed  over  her  face,  a  suspicion  that  I  was 
laughing  at  her,  as  she  said  in  a  tone  of  dignified  rebuke: 
^^It  grows;"  so  I  knew  her  "  Varnish  "  was  "  garnish/' 
her  one  idea  of  '^  garnish  "  parsley. 


120  Practical  Recipes, 

Fried  parsley  is  suitable  for  any  light  brown  article, 
such  as  savory  patties,  croquettes,  cromesquis,  sweet- 
breads, etc. ;  and  it  makes  a  change  from  the  too  per- 
vasive uncooked  article,  pretty  as  it  is. 

For  hot  dishes  with  brown  gravy,  fried  bread  cut  into 
pretty  shapes  will  not  take  two  minutes,  or  as  they  will 
keep  a  month  in  cool  weather  many  may  be  prepared 
when  there  is  leisure,  and  made  quite  hot  in  a  slow 
oven.  They  will  not  be  so  nice,  yet  better  than  sod- 
den toasted  sippets. 

White  dishes  such  as  fricassee  are  very  nicely  gar- 
nished with  little  ornaments  of  puff  paste  glazed  with  ^gg 
and  baked  a  j)ale  brown.  Clubs,  hearts,  diamonds  and 
spades  cut  out  of  carrots,  beetroot,  and  English  pickled 
walnuts  and  scattered  over  a  white  entree  makes  a  novel 
garnish.  But  the  ways  are  many  and  open  to  any  one's 
invention,  only  take  care  that  the  garnish  suits  the  dish. 

I  am  unorthodox  enough  to  think  that  flowers  do  not 
suit  salad  unless  they  are  the  flowers  of  a  vegetable,  or 
salad  i)lant,  such  as  nasturtiums  and  scarlet  runner  blos- 
soms, bean  or  pea  blossoms,  etc.  To  me  flowers  sug- 
gest sweet  things,  and  are  appropriate  to  fruit  dishes. 

PEIED    PAESLEY. 

The  whole  secret  is  in  having  fresh  curled  parsley, 
bright  in  color,  and  i^erfectly  dry.  It  is  better  not 
washed  ;  therefore  never  use  any  but  the  cleanest. 
Have  the  fat  in  the  frying-kettle  hot  enough  to  brown 
a  cube  of  bread  m  a  few  seconds  ;  put  the  parsley  in  a 
frying-basket ;  put  it  in  the  fat,  and  in  half  a  minute, 
if  the  fat  is  hot  enough,  it  will  be  crisp  and  green  ;  it 
will  break  easily  when  you  take  it  out  ;  lay  it  on  blot- 
ting-paper or  grocer's  tea-paper  to  absorb  the  grease. 


General  Instructions,  I  29 

Ceouton"S,  which  sound  very  fine,  are  just  pieces  of 
stale  bread  cut  with  a  cutter  into  pretty  shapes  and 
dropped  into  the  same  hot  fat ;  they  will  take  one 
minute  to  become  golden  brown ;  never  let  them  be  a 
dark  color.  Nicely-made  hash  served  on  the  centre  of 
small  rounds  of  fried  bread,  with  a  little  parsley,  be- 
comes an  entree  instead  of  a  make-shift  dish. 

Eggs  carefully  broken  and  dropped  into  this  same 
kettle  of  boiling  fat,  and  laid  round  a  dish  of  nice  hash, 
make  a  very  different  breakfast-dish  to  one  of  hash  with 
boiled  eggs,  yet  the  expense  is  the  same  and  the  trouble 
no  more.  Once  you  get  used  to  using  the  deep  frying- 
kettle,  it  will  be  so  much  easier  than  the  saute — other- 
wise, frying-pan — that  you  will  think  nothing  of  using 
it,  and  turning  out  golden  wonders  even  if  you  are  in 
the  greatest  hurry.  Eggs  (to  return  to  the  subject) 
fried  one  minute  in  this  way,  come  out  golden-brown 
balls. 

LARDIl^G — DAUBIKG. 

Larding  is  a  process  that  requires  practice,  when  it  is 
very  easy;  it  means  to  take  a  stitch  in  the  surface  of  meat, 
and  is  really  more  ornamental  than  anything  else.  For 
purposes  of  moistening  and  flavoring  dry  meats,  the 
process  called  ^^  daubing*^  is  far  better  and  perfectly 
easy. 

In  larding  cut  the  strips  of  solid  salt  pork  about  the 
third  of  an  inch  square  and  two  inches  long  for  large 
pieces  of  meat,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  for  smaller,  and  as 
thick  as  a  good  straw  for  poultry.  Cut  the  strips,  which 
are  called  lardoons,  parallel  to  the  rind  some  time  before 
you  want  them,  and  lay  them  on  ice  ;  take  care  they 
are  never  too  large  for  the  needle.     Mark  the  surface  of 


1 30  Practical  Recipes. 

the  meat  at  equal  distances  with  a  knife,  then  put  in 
the  larding-needle  at  the  first  mark  ;  push  it  almost  up 
to  the  end,  bringing  the  point  out  at  the  second  mark, 
then  pull  it  back,  insert  the  lardoon  in  it,  and  bring  it 
through,  leaving  the  pork  in  the  meat  and  an  end  where 
it  entered  and  where  it  came  out. 

Meat  a  la  daithe  has  holes  made  through  it  and  pieces 
of  pork  as  thick  as  your  finger  inserted ;  they  go  all 
through  the  meat. 

TO    CKUMB. 

Where  you  have  not  a  large  quantity  of  ready  dried 
and  sifted  bread-crumbs  it  is  better  to  use  the  cracker 
powder  that  comes  in  boxes.  It  is  just  as  economical 
to  turn  out  a  whole  box  when  you  are  crumbing,  for 
what  is  not  used  is  sifted  and  returned  to  the  box. 

To  crumb  croquettes,  cutlets,  etc.,  beat  up  one  or  two 
eggs  (according  as  you  have  many  or  few  articles)  with 
a  teaspoon  of  oil  and  one  of  water  and  a  little  salt,  or 
the  water  may  be  used  alone. 

Have  the  egg  in  a  saucer,  and  articles  to  be  crumbed 
on  your  right,  and  the  cracker  meal  on  your  left,  a  dish 
covered  with  cracker  meal  within  reach.  Dip  each  ar- 
ticle with  the  right  hand  in  the  egg,  lay  it  on  the 
cracker  meal  with  the  left,  roll  it  well  in  it  and  lay  it  on 
the  dish;  do  not  wet  the  left  hand  in  the  egg  at  all. 


CHAPTEE  XXI. 
FORCEMEATS.— STUFFING. 


FOKCEMEATS. 

Many  people  believe  they  don't  like  dishes  flavored  with 
herbs;  yet  they  dine  and  enjoy  dinner  where  herbs  are 
properly  used,  and  never  know  the  dish  they  enjoyed 
owed  its  piquancy  to  their  despised  ''  yarbs."  Herbs  in 
the  hands  of  an  inexperienced  or  careless  person  are 
dangerous  things — so  are  spices,  and  most  of  the  preju- 
dice comes  from  their  association  with  bad  cooking. 

Any  attempt  to  make  good  forcemeat  without  herbs 
degenerates  into  making  the  first  stage  of  a  bread- 
pudding,  and  omitting  everything  that  makes  it  good. 

Yet  one  remedy  there  is  for  those  who  do  not  want 
wet  bread  with  an  onion  flavor,  yet  really  cannot  eat 
herbs,  and  that  is  in  sausage-meat.  Really  good  sau- 
sage-meat put  into  the  Ireast  of  a  turkey  or  chicken  is 
a  great  improvement  to  the  bird  :  its  richness  moistens 
it  and  adds  much  to  the  flavor  ;  it  must  not  go  into  the 
body,  or  it  becomes  steamed  and  unpleasant. 

CHESTNUT   FOKCEMEAT. 

Peel  some  Spanish  chestnuts  ;  scald  them  a  few 
minutes  to  get  off  the  inner  skin  ;  drain  them  and  stew 
them  till  tender  in  gravy  ;  let  them  get  cold  and  pound 

131 


132  Practical  Recipes, 

them  with  an  equal  quantity  of  butter  and  bread- 
crumbs, adding  the  latter  after  they  are  pounded;  season 
with  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg  ;  bind  with  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs. 

This  is  used  for  turkey,  and  may  be  fried  in  balls  to 
garnish  it. 

OYSTER   FORCEMEAT. 

Take  two  dozen  plump  oysters,  scald  them,  chop  them 
a  little;  take  an  equal  quantity  of  bread-crumbs  and 
two  ounces  of  butter  ;  scald  a  bit  of  onion  as  large  as  a 
hazel-nut,  and  chop  it  very  fine  ;  put  in  a  teaspoonful 
of  finely-chopped  parsley,  asmallsaltspoonful  of  pepper, 
and  two  of  salt  (it  must  be  highly  seasoned);  squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  bind  the  whole  with  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  ;  used  for  turkey,  roasted  or  boiled,  or 
may  be  fried  in  balls  to  garnish. 

SAGE   AND    OKIOJsr   FORCEMEAT, 

for  ducks,  pork  and  goose. 

Boil  some  white  onions  till  half  done  ;  chop  them 
fine  ;  put  as  much  'bread-crumbs  as  there  is  chopped 
onion,  and  to  about  a  pint  of  stuffing  put  about  ten 
sage-leaves,  dried  till  they  powder  easily.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  highly. 

ORDINARY   YEAL-STUFFIJSTG — (sOYER's). 

Chop  up  half  a  pound  of  beef  suet  very  fine  (I  sub- 
stitute butter — four  ounces);  put  it  in  a  bowl  with 
eight  ounces  of  bread-crumbs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
finely-chopped  parsley,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  equal  quan- 
tities of  powdered  thyme  and  marjoram,  a  suspicion  of 
lemon-peel  grated,   and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a 


Forcemeats, — Stuffing,  1 3  3 

quarter  of  a  nutmeg,   and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  ;  one- 
sixth  of  one  of  pepper ;  bind  with  two  yolks  of  eggs. 
This  is  suitable  for  turkey,  chickens,  or  baked  fish. 

HOW   TO    STUFF. 

In  stuffing  any  bird,  fish,  or  piece  of  meat,  avoid 
packing  it  tightly — there  must  be  room  for  the  stuffing 
to  swell ;  beside,  the  stuffing  should  be  well  permeated 
with  the  gravy  of  the  article.  Turkeys  and  chickens 
should  be  stuffed  in  the  breast,  loosening  the  skin  with 
the  finger;  geese  and  ducks  in  the  stomach.  No  more 
should  be  put  in  the  latter  than  will  go  loosely  in  with- 
out any  pressure,  or  it  will  come  out  like  steamy 
pudding. 

TO    BLANCH. 

French  cooks  mean  by  this  term  to  pour  boiling 
water  on  any  article  and  then  to  put  it  immediately 
in  cold  water.  With  almonds  it  means  scalding  them  to 
take  off  the  skin. 


CHAPTER  XXII, 
VEGETABLES. 


TO    BOIL  VEGETABLES. 

There  is  not  much  to  add  to  what  has  been  said  in 
the  chapter  on  boiling,  in  the  first  part  of  this  book. 
Multiplying  recipes  is  not  adding  to  information;  noth- 
ing is  more  generally  spoilt  than  yege tables,  yet  the 
simple  rules  there  given  would  prevent  this,  and  no 
number  of  recipes  would  do  so. 

It  is  usually  the  question  of  time  that  destroys  boiled 
vegetables;  never  over-cook  them — never  put  them  on 
too  early,  but  each  in  their  time.  I  give  a  general  order 
each  day  (knowing  the  incapacity  of  average  servants  to 
remember  differences  of  time  unless  it  is  fixed  for 
them). 

Put  on  potatoes  just  half  an  hour  before  dinner- 
time, peas  or  asparagus  ten  minutes,  cabbage  or  cauli- 
flower five  minutes  later,  turnips  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
and  carrots,  in  fall  and  early  winter,  half  an  hour  before 
them;  in  winter,  one  hour  before  the  potatoes;  and 
always  put  them  in  boiling  water;  always  make  them 
boil  up  quickly  again. 

If  you  are  forced  to  cook  vegetables  before  they  are 

wanted,  pour  them  off  directly  they  are  done  and  throw 

them  into  cold  water;  when  required   drain  them,  and 

make  them  hot  in  the  sauce  you  serve  with  them;  this 

134 


Vegetables,  1 3  5 

is  the  French  method;  it  preserves  color  and  flavor,  and 
leaves  the  range  free  for  other  cooking,  and  is  abso- 
lutely necessary  when  serving  a  dinner  of  many  dishes. 

TO   CUT   VEGETABLES. 

Peel  turnips  thick;  scrape  carrots  or  peel  them  very 
thin,  and  cut  them  into  slices  the  third  of  an  inch 
thick;  make  three  slices  in  a  pile,  and  cut  them  across. 

TO    CUT   AND   SHRED   VEGETABLES. 

Prepare  them  as  directed;  cut  carrots,  turnips,  (or 
onions)  in  slices  the  third  of  an  inch  thick;  then  make 
them  into  piles,  three  slices  in  a  pile,  and  cut  down 
through  them  every  third  of  an  inch,  pushing  the  piles 
forward  with  the  left  hand  as  the  knife  comes  down. 

These  will  be  about  the  size  to  boil  and  serve  with 
white  sauce.  They  need  to  be  cut  precisely,  not  only 
for  the  appearance,  but  because  if  they  are  unequal  in 
size,  some  will  be   over-cooked  and  others  under-done. 

TO   SHRED   FOR   SOUP 

Cut  the  slices  much  thinner;  five  or  six  to  the  inch; 
hold  them  in  little  piles  firmly  between  the  left  thumb 
and  fingers,  and  cut  across  each  pile  evenly,  making 
about  six  cuts  to  the  inch;  with  a  little  practice  this  be- 
comes the  quickest  way  of  cutting  vegetables,  and  far 
more  nicely  than  cutting  them  hap-hazard. 

PREPARATION  OF  VEGETABLES. 

Cauliflower — Should  have  nearly  all  the  green 
leaves  trimmed  off,  leaving  only  one  circle  of  the  young 
green;  lay  in  cold  water  to  cover  them,  in  which  is  a 
large  handful  of  salt.     Then  rinse  out  of  this  in  two 


1 3  6  Practical  Recipes, 

waters.  It  may  be  tied  up  in  an  old  napkin,  which 
keeps  any  speck  of  scum  from  it.  It  should  boil  till 
the  stalk  is  just  tender,  about  twenty-five  minutes,  with 
a  level  saltspoonful  of  soda,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  salt 
in  the  water,  which  should  cover  it  well;  serve  with 
HoUandaise  or  white  sauce;  and,  if  liked,  a  little  parme- 
san  cheese  may  be  grated  over  it. 

Cabbage — Is  to  be  cooked  in  exactly  the  same  man- 
ner, and  unless  in  deep  winter,  will  take  no  longer;  in 
winter  allow  half  an  hour — but  cabbage  requires  a  large 
pot  2^vl^  plenty  of  water;  to  be  frequently  pushed  down, 
and  to  boil  without  a  cover  as  fast  as  possible — '^  to  gal- 
lop "  as  the  common  phrase  is.  You  will  have  then 
no  bad  odor  from  it.  Take  care  the  pot  is  large  enough 
to  prevent  the  water  splashing  over  on  the  stove. 

Peas — Eequire  twenty  minutes  boiling,  unless  very 
old,  in  just  enough  water  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of 
sugar  to  each  quart  is  dissolved,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt;  serve  with  plain  butter  in  the  dish. 

STEING   BEAIsrS. 

To  look  well,  these  should  be  most  carefully  cut  slant- 
wise, in  thin  uniform  slices;  or  if  very  young,  slit  them 
the  whole  length,  and  cut  across  twice  to  make  slips  an 
inch  long,  like  those  that  come  in  the  French  tins. 

They  should  never  be  chopped  across,  any  size  from 
half  an  inch  to  an  inch,  as  careless  cooks  so  often  do. 
They  take  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes  in  well  salted 
fast  boiling  water  in  which  is  half  a  saltspoon  of  soda; 
serve  either  with  plain  butter  or  tliiii  drawn  butter  in 
which  is  a  mere  suspicion  of  sugar. 

Asparagus — Must  be  scraped ;  cut  about  an  even 
five   inches   long;    tied  in    small  bundles    and  boiled 


Vegetables.  1 3  7 

gently  in  well  salted  water;  standing,  if  possible,  as  you 
thus  save  the  heads;  they  take  twenty  minutes,  and  are 
served  with  white  sauce  or  Hollandaise. 

Carrots — Should  be  scraped,  not  peeled;  split  if 
large,  and  cut  in  four  (if  to  eat  with  boiled  beef),  and 
boiled  one  hour  and  a  half.  If  they  are  to  be  served 
separate,  cut  them  in  slips,  (see  Cutting  Vegetables)  and 
boiled  one  hour  in  salted  water;  they  may  then  be 
dressed  with  butter  or  white  sauce. 

CONES   or   CARROT   AKD   TURNIPS, 

A  more  ornamental  way  is  to  boil  them  in  quarters  ; 
chop  them  fine  in  a  chopping-bowl ;  put  a  piece  of  butter 
with  them  and  press  them  into  a  cone  shape  (a  conical 
wineglass  will  answer  for  a  mould),  and  stand  them  in 
a  dish  ;  sprinkle  over  them  dry-chopped  parsley. 

When  carrots  and  white  turnips  are  both  served, 
mash  the  turnips  and  press  them  in  the  same  way,  ar- 
ranging the  orange  and  white  cones  alternately  on  the 
dish  ;  garnish  with  parslay. 

TuRKiPS  should  be  thicTcly  peeled,  cut  in  halves, 
and  boiled  one  hour  in  well-salted  water  ;  they  are 
usually  tender  in  that  time.  If  you  wish  to  mash 
them,  pour  off  the  water;  mash  them  with  a  tablespoon- 
f ul  of  cream  and  half  a  saltspoonf ul  of  white  pepper;  salt 
to  taste  ;  a  little  butter  may  be  used  instead  of  cream, 
but  the  flavor  of  butter  should  not  be  very  perceptible. 

A  better  way  to  cook  them  is  to  cut  them  (see  Cutting 
Vegetables)  and  boil  forty-five  minutes  in  salted  water, 
then  served  with  white  sauce. 

Young  spring  turnips  and  carrots  require  less  time  to 
boil,  according  to  size,  and  should  be  served  whole  and 
be  simply  dressed  with  white  sauce. 


138  Practical  Recipes. 

Spikach  requires  careful  washing  to  free  it  from  sand; 
pick  off  all  discolored  leaves  and  cut  off  the  roots. 

/always  boil  it  witliout  water  twenty  minutes  or  till 
tender,  leaving  the  cover  on  the  saucepan ;  when  done, 
there  will  be  perhaps  half  a  pint  of  water  in  the  sauce- 
pan after  the  spinach  is  taken  out ;  chop  the  spinach 
fine  in  a  chopping-bowl ;  put  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  in  it  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste  ;  return  it  to  the  saucepan  and  let  it  stew  till  all 
the  water  has  boiled  away,  stirring  often  to  prevent  it 
burning. 

The  usual  way,  however,  is  to  put  it  in  boiling  water 
with  only  a  little  salt ;  let  it  boil  twenty  minutes ; 
pour  off  the  water  and  chop  the  spinach,  as  in  last 
recipe. 

Sweet  Cork  should  not  be  stripped  of  the  husk  until 
just  before  using  ;  put  it  into  boiling  water  ;  boil  twenty 
minutes,  and  serve  in  a  hot  napkin. 

Many  prefer  to  boil  it  in  the  hust,  and  to  strip  it  be- 
fore sending  it  to  table. 

Tomatoes,  Stewed. — Scald  them  to  remove  the  skin  ; 
cut  them  up  ;  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  and  let  them 
stew  down  slowly  till  they  are  thick  from  one  to  two 
hours  ;  put  in  a  lump  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  flour  ;  let  them  stew  five  minutes  longer 
and  serve. 

Tomatoes,  Baked. — Scald  them ;  skin  them  ;  cut  a 
hole  in  the  top  and  put  in  it  a  little  knob  of  butter  in 
which  you  have  worked  a  quarter  saltspoonful  of  salt 
and  a  little  pepper  ;  set  them  in  a  dripping-pan  ;  put  in 
it  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
flour  kneaded  in  it ;  bake  tliem  till  tender  and  brown, 
but  not  till  they  are  all  shrunken  away ;  take  them  up 


Vegetables,  1 39 

and  set  the  pan  on  the  stove  ;  stir  the  juice  well,  which 
the  lump  of  butter  and  flour  will  have  served  to  thicken  ; 
when  smooth,  put  it  to  the  tomatoes  and  serve. 

02!^iOKS,  Stewed. — Take  care  that  the  onions  are 
carefully  peeled;  it  is  better  to  take  off  a  skin  too 
much  than  leave  one  that  will  shrivel  ;  choose  them  of 
medium  size ;  let  them  boil  quite  tender  in  well  salted 
water — they  will  take  about  an  hour  if  not  large — and 
serve  with  white  sauce  or  drawn  butter. 

Spking  Okioks,  trimmed  to  leave  about  two  inches 
of  the  green  (making  them  four  or  five  inches  long), 
boiled  about  twenty-five  minutes,  and  served  as  you 
would  asparagus,  are  a  delicate  and  delicious  dish. 


CHAPTEE  XXIII. 
SOUPS. 

Oleak  Soup. — For  beef  stocky  for  all  clear  soups,  I 
can  do  no  better  than  refer  to  the  minute  directions  for 
the  making  of  GoufEe's  Pot-au-feu,  given  on  page  6S. 
That  stock,  carefully  prepared,  clear  as  follows  : 

To  each  quart  of  stock  take  the  white  and  shell  of  one 
egg,  to  which  add  a  wineglass  of  cold  water ;  then  beat 
well  together ;  add  a  little  of  the  boiling  stock  gradu- 
ally, still  beating  the  egg  ;  then  stir  the  stock  quickly 
and  pour  in  the  white  of  egg,  etc.,  at  the  same  time  stir- 
ring till  nearly  boiling  again  ;  then  take  it  from  the  fire, 
let  it  stand  a  few  minutes  that  the  white  of  egg  may 
separate  from  the  soup  into  a  curd  ;  then  pour  through 
a  clean,  fine  cloth  or  napkin  into  a  bowl. 

You  now  have  a  soup  nearly  colorless,  clear  as  water, 
and  of  delicious  flavor.  Add  to  it  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  caramel  (see  recipe),  or  less,  and  it  becomes  like  pale 
sherry  or  weak  tea.  This  is  the  ideal  clear  soup  or 
bouillon.  Had  jou  reduced  it  before  clearing,  by  quick 
boiling,  from  two  quarts  to  one  (see  page  67),  you  would 
have  consoiumeey  and  then  the  color  may  be  made  a  very 
little  darker.  Avoid  a  dark  color,  however,  either  for 
bouillon  or  consommee. 

Vermicelli  Soup. — To  one  quart  of  clear  soup  or 

bouillon,  add  two  ounces  of  vermicelli ;  boil  gently  ten 

minutes  and  serve. 

140 


Soups,  1 4 1 

Clear  Vegetable  Soup. — Shred  half  a  small  carrot, 
half  a  small  turnip,  about  an  inch  of  young  leek  or  half 
a  dozen  yery  small  spring  onions,  if  in  season  ;  also  a 
few  green  peas  or  string  beans  if  young  ;  boil  all  together 
till  quite  tender,  in  salted  water ;  then  add  them,  just 
before  serving,  to  the  clear,  hot  stock.  Take  care  that 
you  have  all  the  vegetables  of  one  size,  or  some  will  cook 
to  mash  while  others  are  hard  ;  they  should  be  not  more 
than  an  inch  in  length  and  the  thickness  of  a  match. 
To  a  quart  there  should  not  be  more  added  than  two 
tablespoonfuls  altogether,  each  in  good  proportion.  In 
winter,  canned  peas  and  beans  can  be  used. 

Coi^sOMMEE  A  LA  RoYALE. — For  two  quarts  of  con- 
sommee,  take  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  one  gill  of 
the  consommee  ;  beat  the  eggs  ;  mix  with  the  gill  of 
consommee  ;  put  as  much  grated  nutmeg  as  will  lie  on 
the  point  of  a  penknife  and  a  small  pinch  of  salt  ;  pour 
this  custard  into  a  cup  ;  set  it  in  hot  water,  cover  it,  and 
bake  till  firm,  not  longer.  When  done,  if  there  is  a 
skin  over  the  custard,  take  it  off  ;  cut  it  into  small 
cubes ;  add  them  to  the  boiling  consommee  and  serve. 
This  custard  is  called  royal  paste,  or  pdte  royale. 

Plaik  Family  Soup. — Put  two  pounds  of  meat,  with 
any  bones  or  trimming  you  have — remnants  of  cold 
meat  or  gravy  helps  to  enrich  it — in  a  pot  with  three 
quarts  of  cold  water  ;  let  them  come  slowly  to  a  boil, 
and  then  simmer  (see  page  65)  for  two  hours,  skimming 
occasionally  ;  add  to  the  soup  three  teasponfuls  of  salt, 
one-half  one  of  pepper,  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  an  onion,  two 
cloves,  a  stick  of  celery  and  two  sprigs  of  parsley  if  you 
have  them. 

If  the  vegetables  are  to  be  served  with  the  soup,  they 
must  be  very  neatly  cut,  quite  small ;  if  the  soup  is  to 


142  JP radical  Recipes. 

be  strained,  simply  cut  in  thin  slices  will  do.  Let  this 
slowly  simmer  two  hours  more  ;  then  put  in  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  caramel  (see  recipe)  ;  remove  the  meat ;  boil  fast 
for  a  minute  or  two,  to  send  up  the  fat,  and  skim  off 
every  bit  of  fat.  If  you  find  this  difficult  after  the 
thickest  fat  is  off,  lay  pieces  of  common  butchers'  paper 
or  other  unprinted  paper  on  the  surface  till  it  no  longer 
comes  off  greasy. 

I  need  not  repeat  recipes  which  are,  after  all,  the 
same  thing,  or  should  be.  The  clear  soup  may  be  varied 
into  ^^ macaroni'^  soup,  ^^ clear  asparagus,^'  or  any  of 
the  many  soups  taking  their  name  from  the  substances 
served  in  them,  by  adding  any  one  of  them  to  the  stock, 
always  remembering  that  they  should  be  cooked  thor- 
oughly first  and  then  put  into  the  boiling  stock. 

Do  not,  however,  use  cold  vegetables  for  the  pur- 
pose. 

EisTGLiSH  Clear  Mock  Turtle. — This  soup,  as  made 
by  the  English,  is  much  richer  than  what  is  usually 
known  in  this  country  by  the  name.  I  give  the  best 
English  method.  Though  more  expensive  it  is  not 
more  troublesome  than  the  more  ordinary  way,  and 
when  accomplished  is  a  dish  to  set  ^^  before  a  king,'' 
or  that  gastronomous  potentate,  the  Lord  Mayor  him- 
self. 

Get  a  calf's  head  ;  order  the  butcher  to  split  it  ;  re- 
move the  tongue  and  brains  whole  ;  lay  these  in  vine- 
gar and  water  till  you  need  them,  and  take  out  the  lin- 
ing membrane  of  the  nasal  passages  whole.  Soak  the 
head  in  salt  and  water,  carefully  washing  where  the 
brains  have  been  ;  when  all  slime  and  blood  are  re- 
moved, put  the  head  in  a  large  soup-pot,  and  add  to  it 
six  quarts  of  clear  stock  (see  recipe).     Slowly  simmer 


Soups,  143 

for  two  hours  after  it  has  reached  the  boiling-point. 
Next  take  out  the  calf's  head ;  cut  all  the  meat  from 
the  bones ;  cut  the  flesh  or  s.kin  into  neat  pieces  two 
inches  square.  Lay  them  on  a  dish  ;  to  keep  the  pieces 
flat^  lay  another  dish  on  the  top  of  them.  Pour  any 
liquor  that  may  have  run  from  it,  back  into  the  stock- 
pot  with  all  the  bones ;  simmer  for  an  hour  longer  \ 
then  strain  it,  and  if  not  bright,  clear  it. 

Mock  turtle  is  a  highly-flavored  soup,  yet  very  little 
too  much  herb  would  SDoil  it ;  to  avoid  all  danger  do 
as  follows  : 

Put  into  a  small  saucepan  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
chopped  parsley,  one  of  sweet  basil,  two  of  marjoram, 
two  of  savory,  and  one  of  lemon-thyme,  two  bay-leaves 
— any  one  making  mock  turtle  often,  would  do  well  to 
keep  a  bottle  of  these  herbs  in  these  proportions,  the 
parsley,  however,  always  to  be  fresh,  if  possible.  Pour 
half  a  pint  of  water  on  these  ;  cover  tightly  and  sim- 
mer for  twenty  minutes  ;  take  from  the  fire,  and  when 
cool,  strain,  pressing  with  a  spoon  to  get  as  much  of 
the  flavor  as  you  can.  Next  put  your  cleared  soup 
back  into  the  pot ;  put  in  the  meat,  or  as  much  of  it  as 
you  wish  to  serve,  keeping  the  remains  for  an  entree 
(see  recipe.  Calf  s  Head  with  HoUandaise  Sauce).  The 
pieces  of  meat  from  the  first  cooking  will  probably  be 
tender ;  if  not,  simmer  them  till  they  are.  Now,  add 
the  juice  of  the  herbs  gradually  till  you  have  the  flavor 
you  desire ;  it  may  take  the  whole  ;  next  add  a  pint  of 
pale  sherry  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  with  salt  and 
cayenne  to  taste. 

If  the  soup  is  not  a  good  color,  add  a  teaspoonf  ul  or 
more  of  caramel. 

Serve  with  egg-balls. 


1 44  Pi^actical  Recipes. 

For  half  this  quantity  everything  must  be  divided, 
but  it  keeps  well  in  cool  weather,  being  a  very  solid 
jelly  when  cold. 

Thick  Mock  Tuetle.— To  make  Thich  Mock  Turtle, 
proceed  exactly  as  before  ;  only  instead  of  using  clear 
stock,  any  stock  made  from  bones  and  scraps  will  do  ; 
it  will,  of  course,  need  no  clearing  ;  thicken  with  brown 
thickening  (see  recipe),  about  one  tablespoonful  or 
more  for  each  quart,  and  all  the  flavoring,  egg-balls, 
etc.,  as  in  the  last  recipe. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup. — A  fine  American  recipe. — Pre- 
pare a  calf's  head  as  already  directed,  saving  tongue  and 
brains,  Lay  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot  a  carrot,  a  turnip, 
a  small  head  of  celery,  three  small  onions,  two  large 
sprigs  of  parsley,  two  of  thyme,  one  bay-leaf,  one  ounce 
of  salt,  and  four  cloves,  and  unless  the  flavor  is  objected 
to,  half  a  pound  of  lean  ham.  On  these  lay  the  head  ; 
then  add  seven  quarts  of  water.  Let  it  simmer  three 
hours. 

Egg  Balls  for  Soups. — Boil  three  eggs  hard  ;  pound 
the  yolks,  adding  a  small  teaspoonful  of  very  finely 
chopped  parsley,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  fine  salt,  a  quar- 
ter one  of  white  pepper ;  moisten  with  raw  yolk,  and 
roll  each  ball  in  white  of  egg  beaten  only  a  little  ;  when 
well  coated,  dip  into^  flour  and  drop  into  boiling  water 
for  two  minutes. 

MuLLiGATAWKY  SoijP. — This  rich  soup  is  best  made 
with  the  excellent  but  despised  rabbit.  A  fowl,  how- 
ever, can  be  substituted. 

Take  a  small  knuckle  of  veal,  say  three  pounds,  and 
one  rabbit  or  fowl;  if  rabbit,  lay  it  in  water  after  cleaning. 

Cut  up  the  veal  ;  put  the  meat  in  a  pot  with  two 
ounces  of  butter,  a  small  slice  of  lean  ham  if  approved. 


Soups.  145 

three  onions  and  six  apples  peeled  and  cut  up,  and  half 
a  pint  of  cold  water ;  set  the  stewpan  on  a  hot  fire, 
shaking  it  about  occasionally  till  the  bottom  is  covered 
with  a  brownish  glaze  ;  then  add  a  carrot  cut  up,  a  tur- 
nip, three  tablespoonfuls  of  curry  powder,  one  of  salt, 
and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  ;  mix  all  well  together, 
and  pour  on  a  gallon  of  hot,  not  boiling,  water ;  lay  in 
the  bones  of  the  veal,  and  the  chicken  or  rabbit  cut  up ; 
let  all  simmer  three  hours.  Take  out  the  chicken  or 
rabbit ;  trim  some  nice  pieces  to  serve  in  the  soup  ;  keep 
the  rest  with  a  cup  of  the  soup  for  an  entree  (see 
recipe).  Skim  off  all  scum  and  fat  as  it  rises ;  then 
strain  the  soup.  Have  some  plain  boiled  rice  to  serve 
separate.  The  pieces  of  rabbit  or  chicken  are  either  put 
in  the  soup  or  handed  round  with  the  rice. 

Of  course,  the  amount  of  curry  powder  may  be  re- 
duced one-half  if  too  hot. 

FISH   SOUPS. 

FREisrcH  Fisherman's  Soup.— Put  a  quarter  pound 
of  butter  in  a  stewpan  ;  when  melted,  add  six  ounces  of 
flour  ;  stir  well  together  over  a  slow  fire  a  few  minutes  ; 
when  cool,  add  a  quart  of  milk  and  two  quarts  of  stock  ; 
stir  over  the  fire  till  boiling  ;  cut  the  flesh  from  two 
flounders  (or  other  firm  fish)  ;  throw  in  the  bones  and 
trimmings  to  the  soup,  with  four  cloves,  two  bay-leaves, 
one  spoonful  of  essence  of  anchovies,  one  of  Harvey  or 
Worcestershire  sauce,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  cayenne,  a 
teaspoonf ul  of  sugar,  one  of  salt  {three  if  stock  was  un- 
salted);  let  the  whole  boil  quickly  for  ten  minutes, 
skimming  well ;  cut  the  fish  into  neat  pieces  ;  lay  it  in  a 
stewpan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley  ; 
strain  the  soup  through  a  fine  strainer  on  to  the  fish  ; 


146  Practical  Recipes. 

let  it  cook  ten  minutes  ;  add  a  gill  of  cream  if  you  have 
it,  and  serye. 

In  place  of  stock,  oyster  liquor  may  be  used. 

Bisque  of  Oysters. — Put  the  liquor  from  one  quart 
of  oysters  into  a  quart  measure,  filling  it  up  with  water  ; 
strain  this  into  a  large  saucepan ;  lay  aside  half  of  the 
oysters,  chop  up  the  rest  quite  small,  and  put  them  to 
the  liquor ;  let  them  stew  fifteen  minutes  ;  haye  a  quart 
of  milk  near  boiling.  Melt  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan ;  put  two  ounces  of  flour  to  it  ;  stir  till  they 
bubble  ;  then  quickly  jDOur  the  milk  on  to  it,  stirring  all 
the  time.  When  smooth,  lay  in  the  whole  oysters  ;  strain 
the  oyster  liquor  to  this,  pressing  the  chopped  oysters 
well,  and  season;  let  the  whole  just  simmer  three  minutes 
after  the  oysters  are  put  in,  if  they  cook  longer,  they  will 
become  tough.  Take  it  from  the  fire  while  you  beat  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  one  minute  ;  then  stir  them  into  the 
bisque;  stir  for  half  a  minute,  but  do  not  return  the 
soup  to  the  fire  ;  serye  in  a  hot  tureen.  Cut  lemons 
should  be  handed  round  with  bisques. 

Bisque  of  Clams  is  made  exactly  in  the  same  way  as 
that  of  oysters,  except  that  the  clams  should  all  be 
chopped  fine  and  strained  out,  unless  they  are  yery 
tender. 

Bisque  of  Lobster. — Take  the  meat  from  a  fine 
boiled  lobster,  taking  care  to  discard  the  spongy  part, 
called  ^^adies'  fingers";  also  the  sand-bag  from  the 
head  and  the  entrail  that  runs  through  the  body  ;  care- 
fully saye  the  coral ;  wash  the  shell  and  claws  care- 
fully ;  bruise  them,  and  put  them  to  boil  with  one  quart 
of  water  ;  put  in  also  all  but  the  coral  and  the  firm 
white  meat  of  the  tail ;  cut  this  into  small  squares  ; 
bruise  half  the  coral ;  stir  it  into  the  soup  you  are  niak- 


Soups.  147 

ing,  to  color  it  a  fine  red.  Take  the  rest,  bruise  it,  mix 
it  with  fine  cracker- dust,  and  moisten  with  white  of  egg 
till  it  forms  a  scarlet  paste  ;  make  this  into  little  balls. 
When  the  soup  has  cooked  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  put  one 
ounce  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  one  ounce  of  flour,  stir 
oyer  the  fire  till  they  bubble  ;  pour  to  it  a  quart  of 
hot  milk,  stirring  quickly  ;  then  strain  to  this  the  lob- 
ster liquor  ;  stir  and  boil  together  till  smooth  ;  then 
drop  in  the  pieces  of  flesh  and  the  red  balls  (or  if  you 
wish  to  have  lobster  cutlets  the  same  day  or  salad,  the 
flesh  need  not  be  used  ;  the  soup  is  excellent  without  it); 
let  them  simmer  one  minute  and  serve. 

WHITE    SOUPS. 

Stock  por  White  Soup, — Four  pounds  of  knuckle 
of  yeal,  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  two  onions — all  these  of 
a  fair  size,  about  five  ounces  in  weight  of  each  vegetable 
— one  bay-leaf,  one  clove,  one  saltspoonful  of  white 
pepper,  one  tablespoonf ul  of  salt,  five  quarts  of  water ; 
let  the  veal  with  five  quarts  of  water  slowly  simmer  for 
two  hours  ;  then  add  the  vegetables  cut  up  ;  skim  as 
the  scum  rises  ;  cook  another  two  hours  and  strain  for 
use. 

White  Mushroom  Soup. — One  quart  of  stock,  one 
quart  of  milk,  one  gill  of  thick  cream,  half  a  can  of 
mushrooms  and  the  liquor,  two  ounces  of  butter,  two 
ounces  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Put  both  stock 
and  milk  to  boil  separately ;  stir  in  a  saucepan  over  the 
fire  the  butter  and  flour  together  till  they  bubble  ;  pour 
on  half  the  milk  quickly  stirring  all  the  time  ;  add  the 
rest,  and  then  the  stock ;  when  thick  as  cream  and 
smooth,  put  in  the  liquor  of  the  mushrooms,  the  salt, 
the  mushrooms,  and  last  the  cream.     Just  before  serv- 


14^  Practical  Recipes. 

ing  squeeze  in  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon- juice,  or  serve 
cut  lemon  with  it. 

If  you  have  successfully  made  white  sauce  (see  re- 
cipe), there  will  be  no  danger  of  any  of  these  soups 
being  lumpy  ;  but  if  such  a  thing  does  occur,  strain  it 
before  adding  the  mushrooms  or  other  article. 

White  Asparagus  Soup. — Cut  the  points  from  a 
bundle  of  asparagus  ;  lay  them  aside  ;  cut  up  the  rest 
of  the  rods  quite  small ;  if  very  hard  you  may  bruise 
them ;  put  them  into  a  quart  and  half-pint  of  stock, 
and  boil  slowly  till  tender  enough  to  go  through  a  col- 
endar ;  when  all  has  been  strained,  put  the  points  into 
the  soup  and  let  them  boil  till  just  tender — about  ten 
minutes.  Meanwhile  put  two  ounces  of  butter  and 
two  ounces  of  flour  into  a  saucepan  on  the  fire  ;  stir 
till  they  bubble  ;  pour  a  quart  of  hot  milk  to  this,  a 
pint  at  a  time,  stirring  all  the  time  ;  then  add  the  soup 
to  it,  the  salt,  and  lastly  one  gill  of  cream.     Serve. 

Cream  Soups. — Under  this  name  inexpensive  easy 
soups  are  made  without  stock  ;  they  are  very  good,  but 
of  course  lack  the  flavor  of  soups  made  with  stock. 

Cream  oe  Cauliflower. — Boil  the  white  part  of  a 
small  cauliflower  twenty  minutes  in  salted  water.  Put 
one  quart  of  milk  to  boil ;  melt  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce 
of  butter  and  one  ounce  flour  till  they  bubble,  stirring 
thoroughly  ;  pour  in  half  the  milk  quickly,  stirring  till 
smooth  ;  add  the  other  half  and  boil  a  minute  ;  then 
rub  the  cauliflower  through  a  colander,  stir  it  into  the 
soup ;  season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  quarter 
one  of  white  pepper,  and  serve.  The  pulp  of  beets 
makes  this  ^^  Cream  of  Beets,"  or  of  spinach  ^^  Cream 
of  Spinach  "  ;  and  the  asparagus  soup  may  be  made  in 
the  same  way  if  no  stock  is  at  hand.     The  stock,  how- 


Soups.  1 49 

ever,  is  such  an  improyement  that  I  think  most  people, 
where  economy  is  not  a  necessity,  would  prefer  to  use  it. 

Gkeek  Pea  Soup. — Shell  half  a  peck  of  young  peas ; 
throw  them  into  water.  Put  all  the  shells  to  boil  in  two 
quarts  of  any  kind  ol  stock,  with  four  sprigs  of  parsley, 
six  young  onions,  twelve  mint  leaves,  and  a  handful  of 
spinach  (for  color). 

Let  them  boil  one  hour  ;  rub  them  through  a  coarse 
wire  sieve.  The  shells  are  troublesome,  but  a  great 
deal  can  be  got  through  with  patience  ;  pour  back  soup 
and  pulp  into  a  saucepan,  let  it  boil ;  throw  in  the  peas 
and  boil  till  tender  ;  season,  and  stir  in  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  white  thickening,  if  not  thick  enough  already. 
A  beautiful  color  can  be  given  by  bruising  a  handful  of 
spinach  and  squeezing  it  through  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth 
into  the  soup. 

Iced  Claret  Soup  for  Hot  Weather. — This  is 
a  Danish  soup,  but  very  welcome  in  summer  in  this 
climate. 

Boil  two  ounces  of  sago  in  a  pint  of  water  until  it  is 
like  thick  mucilage  ;  add  to  it  a  bottle  of  claret  (with  a 
little  grated  nutmeg,  and  two  teaspoonf  uls  of  sugar  or 
not,  as  may  be  preferred)  ;  stir  it  well,  strain  it,  and 
set  it  where  it  will  be  ice  cold.  Then  serve  as  other 
soup. 

Corn-starch  may  be  used  in  place  of  sago,  using  two 
fceaspoonfuls  to  thicken  half  a  pint  of  water  ;  let  it  boil 
ten  minutes  before  adding  the  wine  \  then  pour  in  the 
wine,  stir,  and  strain,  and  season  or  leave  unseasoned 
as  may  be  preferred. 


CHAPTEE  XXIV. 
FISH. 

Salmon  with  Greeist  Dutch  Sauce. — Take  a  piece 
of  salmon  two  inches  in  thickness^  if  for  a  small  family; 
put  it  on  a  plate,  tie  it  in  a  napkin  and  put  both  in  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water  in  which  is  plenty  of  salt — 
four  teaspoonf uls  to  each  quart,  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar — boil  twenty  minutes  ;  serye  on  a  napkin  ;  gar- 
nish with  parsley  and  lemon,  or  slices  of  cucumber,  with 
green  Dutch  sauce  (see  recipe)  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Broiled  SALMo^q",  Caper  Sauce. — The  steaks  should 
be  an  inch  thick ;  dip  each  piece  in  flour,  put  it  on  a 
hot  greased  gridiron,  turn  it  often  for  fifteen  minutes, 
when  it  should  be  of  a  fine  pale  brown.  Serve  caper 
sauce  (see  recipe)  in  a  boat. 

crimped  cod  masked  with  oyster  sauce. 

Take  two  or  three  pounds  of  codfish — crimped,  if 
possible — lay  on  a  plate  set  on  a  napkin  ;  tie  up  the  four 
corners,  and  put  it  into  as  much  ioiling  water  as  will 
cover  it,  with  one  level  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  the 
same  of  vinegar  to  the  quart  of  water. 

Scald  two  dozen  oysters  in  their  own  liquor ;  let  them 

get  firm,  but  they  must  not  boil ;  put  a  strainer  on  a 

bowl ;  pour  them  into  it.     Take  the  frill  or  beard  from 

the  oysters ;  put  them  back  in  the  liquor.     Put  in  a 

saucepan  one  good  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  same  of 

flour ;    stir  over  the  fire  till  they  bubble  ;   do  not  let 

150 


Fish.  1 5 1 

them  burn  ;  pour  the  oysters  and  half  a  pint  of  the 
liquor  to  the  butter  and  flour  \  stir  till  smooth  and  just 
boiling,  then  add  one  gill  of  cream  ;  let  it  come  again 
to  the  boiling  point ;  season  with  white  pepper,  and 
yery  little  salt,  if  the  oyster  liquor  is  not  salt  enough  ; 
pour  this  over  the  fish. 

Thi  sauce  should  be  quite  thick,  so  that  it  will  not 
run  ofE  the  fish  but  mask  it.  If  the  tablespoonf ul  of 
flour  was  a  quite  full  one  it  will  be  so,  but  if  you  have 
any  doubts,  don't  put  quite  all  the  half-pint  of  oyster 
liquor  until  the  cream  is  in  ;  you  can  always  make  thin- 
ner, but  without  spoiling  the  oysters  you  cannot  boil  it 
down  to  get  thick,  as  you  would  do  for  ordinary  white 
sauce  that  is  too  thin. 

Garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon. 

HALIBUT  WITH  CAPER  SAUCE. 

Take  a  fine  thick  piece  of  halibut,  unless  you  have 
a  fish-boiler  and  strainer,  put  it  on  a  plate,  tie  it  in  a 
napkin,  place  it  in  boiling  water  with  a  level  tablespoon- 
ful  of  vinegar  and  one  of  salt  to  each  quart.  It  will 
take  twenty  minutes  after  it  has  boiled.  AUfish  should 
boil  slowly  to  prevent  breaking.  When  done  take  it 
up,  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  thick  caper  sauce  (see  recipe); 
put  round  it  a  border  ot  smaL  new  potatoes  and  tiny 
sprigs  of  parsley  between  them. 

FILET   DE   SOLE   E]S"   BECHAMEL. 

Bone  two  flounders  (see  Filet  de  Sole,  page  57);  put 
the  bones  and  trimmings  into  a  pint  of  water,  with  a 
half  slice  of  onion  and  sprig  of  parsley ;  let  them  stew 
down  to  half  pint,  strain,  and  put  aside.  Eoll  up  the 
eight  filets  after  skinning  them  (see  directions)  ;  tie 
them  round,  not  too  tightly,  and  trim  them  so  that 


152  Practical  Recipes. 

they  will  stand  ;  put  them  in  boiling  milk^  or  water, 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  boil  slowly  ;  when  no  longer 
transparent  they  are  done  ;  they  take  from  seven  to  ten 
minutes  according  to  size. 

While  they  are  cooking  put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter 
in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  till 
they  bubble  ;  pour  the  half  pint  of  fish  stock  on  it,  stir- 
ring all  the  while.  If  you  have  cream,  put  half  a  gill 
less  of  stock  and  use  cream  in  its  place.  This  is  now 
lechamel.  Stand  each  little  filet  or  turban  (as  a  filet 
rolled  is  called)  on  a  pretty  dish  ;  pour  the  sauce  over 
them  so  that  they  are  well  coated  ;  then  ornament  as 
follows : 

Chop  half  a  saltspoonful  of  parsley  fine,  and  sprinkle 
over  fish  and  sauce  as  evenly  as  possible  ;  if  the  sauce 
is  nice  and  thick,  the  parsley  will  rest  on  it.  Have 
ready  thin  slices  of  green  pickled  gherkins,  some  bits 
of  red  pepper  or  capsicum  skin,  and  if  you  can,  the 
outer  skin  of  pickled  walnuts  ;  each  of  these  must  be 
the  size  and  thickness  of  a  silver  half  dime.  Place  a 
piece  on  the  top  of  each  turban,  alternately  red,  green, 
and  black.  If  you  have  no  walnut,  use  only  the  green 
and  red.  In  garnishing  this,  or  any  other  dish,  always 
have  everything  ready  before  cooking,  so  that  it  may 
be  quickly  ornamented  without  getting  cold. 

FILET    DE    SOLE — FKIED. 

See  minute  directions  for  the  preparation,  of  this  dish 
in  the  first  part  of  this  book,  page  57. 

BAKED   BLUEFISH. 

This  fish  should  be  used  very  fresh.  Choose  one  of 
fair  size  ;  wash  it  clean,  taking  care  no  slime  or  dark 


Fish.  153 

matter  adheres  to  the  inside.  To  remove  it  use  your 
forefinger  and  some  salt ;  wipe  it  dry,  and  stuff  it  with 
yea]  stuffing  (see  recipe),  and  sew  it  up  ;  lay  it  in  a 
dripping-pan  with  two  ounces  of  butter  in  small  pieces 
over  it ;  sprinkle  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  dredge  it 
with  flour,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven  from  half  an  hour 
to  forty  minutes,  according  to  size.  "While  it  is  cook- 
ing chop  a  tablespoonful  of  pickled  cucumber,  or  half 
the  quantity  of  capers,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  parsley. 

Take  up  the  fish,  put  it  to  keep  hot,  set  the  dripping- 
pan  on  the  stove;  shake  in  it  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour, 
and  let  it  brown  (or  use  brown  flour,  see  recipe,  which 
saves  time) ;  with  the  back  of  the  spoon  rub  the  flour 
into  the  butter  and  gravy  that  is  in  the  pan  ;  when 
brown  and  smooth,  but  not  at  all  burnt,  pour  in  quickly 
a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  if  you  have  it,  a  glass  of 
claret  wine,  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  stir  till  all  is  smooth. 
Strain  this  sauce,  put  in  a  dessert-spoonful  of  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  one  of  anchovy  sauce,  and  the  chopped 
pickles  and  parsley.  Serve  the  sauce  in  a  separate 
vessel.  Garnish  the  fish  with  lemon  points  and  parsley, 
and  serve. 

STEWED    CARP. 

Cleanse  carefully ;  lay  the  fish  in  a  stew-pan  with 
just  enough  broth  of  any  kind  to  cover  it  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  sweet  herbs  ;  stew  very  gently  ;  when  done 
take  up  the  fish  and  strain  the  liquor  ;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  a  glass  of  claret,  and  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  Harvey  sauce  ;  thicken  with  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
brown  thickening  (see  recipe),  or  one  of  flour  and  a  tea- 
spoonful of  chopped  parsley— skim  off  any  fat — pour  this 
over  the  fish  and  serve  with  small  sippets  of  fried  bread. 
A  few  small  mushrooms  are  a  great  improvement. 


154  Practical  Recipes. 

STEWED    CARP    (fREISTCH   MODE). 

Prepare  as  in  last  recipe.  Lay  the  fish,  in  a  stewpan 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  pour  oyer  it  half  a  bottle  of 
claret,  with  a  slice  of  onion  and  a  small  piece  of  carrot 
cut  fine,  and  a  bouquet  of  herbs  ;  stew  gently  till  the 
fish  is  cooked  ;  take  up  the  fish,  strain  the  wine,  and 
thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  mixed  in 
water  ;  put  in  a  little  pepper,  boil  one  minute,  and  pour 
over  the  fish. 

PRIED   SMELTS. 

Choose  them  of  an  even  size ;  wash  them,  wipe 
them  dry,  dip  them  in  milk,  then  in  flour.  Beat 
up  an  egg  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water  ;  dip 
each  fish,  after  shaking  off  superfluous  flour,  in  the  ^gg 
and  then  in  sifted  bread-crumbs,  or  cracker-dust ;  lay 
each  one  as  you  do  it  on  a  bed  of  cracker-dust.  Have 
the  lard  in  a  deep  kettle,  just  as  if  for  doughnuts  ;  when 
it  is  very  hot  and  smokes,  drop  in  a  piece  of  bread  ;  if  it 
becomes  pale  brown  in  a  few  seconds,  it  is  hot  enough, 
if  not,  wait ;  drop  in  a  piece  more  ;  if  now  hot  enough, 
put  in  the  fish,  using  a  frying-basket  if  you  have  one  ; 
do  not  fry  too  many  at  a  time.  They  should,  if  your 
fat  was  hot  enough,  be  a  beautiful  yellow  brown  in  07ie 
minute,  if  they  are  not,  let  it  get  hotter  before  you  put 
the  next  lot  in.  Every  one  should  be  exactly  the  same 
pale  color,  and  there  will  be  no  diflBculty  in  this  if  the 
frying  is  done  according  to  rule. 

Serve  with  Tartar  sauce  or  caper  sauce  (see  recipe). 

FISH,    AU   GRATI]Sr. 

This  is   a  French  mode   of  cooking  fish  very  nice, 
and  to  those  who  use  mushrooms  frequently,  not  ex- 


:  Fish.  155 

pensive,  as  they  may  probably  baye  to  open  a  can  for 
another  purpose. 

Chop  up  one  or  two* good-sized  mushrooms,  or  half  a 
can  of  them  ;  a  small  piece  of  onion  the  size  of  a  hick- 
ory nut ;  a  teaspoonf ul  of  chopped  parsley ;  a  piece  of 
lemon  peel  the  size  of  a  dime ;  a  saltspoonful  of  salt, 
half  one  of  pepper  ;  put  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  put  in  it  the  chopped  onion,  let  it  fry  till 
tender ;  stir  in  one  tablespoonf ul  of  flour,  and,  when 
smooth,  half  a  pint  of  stock  made  from  the  bones,  or 
any  other  you  have,  with  a  glass  of  white  wine  ;  when 
thick  and  smooth  add  the  chopped  mushrooms  and 
parsley.  Skin  the  fish,  remove  the  bone,  and  cut  it  up 
in  }ieat  pieces.  If  you  have  no  regular  gratin  dishes 
use  any  you  can  send  to  table.  Butter  it  thickly,  lay 
in  the  fish,  pour  the  sauce  over  it,  then  cover  thickly 
with  dried  bread-crumbs,  shake  over  it  some  grated 
cheese,  and  bake.  Have  half  a  cup  of  butter  melted, 
and  when  the  gratin  begins  to  brown,  baste  it  all  over 
with  the  butter,  taking  care  there  are  no  dry  spots. 
This  can,  of  course,  be  made  without  mushrooms,  and 
lemon  juice  used  instead  of  wine. 

This  one  recipe  will  serve  for  any  fish  au  gratin,  and 
if  the  fish  is  boned  early,  the  bones  and  trimmings  will 
make  the  stock  for  the  sauce. 

BAKED   BLACK   PISH — A2^   EPICURE'S  DISH. 

Take  a  black  fish  of  five  pounds,  cleanse  and  dry  it 
thoroughly,  flour  it  slightly,  score  the  sides ;  put  some 
sweet  lard  or  beef  dripping  in  a  pan,  and  brown  the 
fish  on  the  top  of  the  stove  ;  pour  off  the  lard  and  mix 
together  the  following  ingredients  :  one  teaspoonful  of 
ground  cloves,  two-third  teaspoonful  of  mace,  one  table- 


156  Practical  Recipes, 

spoonful  of  salt^  half  saltspoonful  of  red  pepper,  two  of 
black  pepper,  a  large  double  handful  of  chopped  onion, 
a  large  single  handful  of  chopped  parsley.  Fill  the 
scores  in  the  sides  of  the  fish  with  this  seasoning,  put 
the  rest  over  the  top ;  put  sixteen  balls  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  large  walnut,  each  rolled  in  flour,  upon  the 
fish  ;  pour  into  the  pan  a  quarter  pint  of  water  for 
gravy. 

(If  more  convenient,  the  fish  may  be  prepared  thus 
far  early  in  the  day  and  put  aside  until  an  hour  before 
it  is  wanted.) 

Put  it  in  a  good,  moderate  oven ;  it  will  take  one 
hour  to  cook ;  fifteen  minutes  before  it  is  done  put  in 
a  dozen  fine  oysters  and  one  pint  of  red  wine.  The 
oysters  may  be  omitted  if  desirable. 

Take  up  the  fish  very  carefully,  to  avoid  breaking ; 
stir  the  gravy  well  round  the  pan  to  take  off  any  of  the 
clinging  glaze  ;  strain  it  and  pour  it  round,  not  over, 
the  fish  ;  garnish  with  lemon  points  and  little  bunches 
of  parsley. 


CHAPTEK  XXV. 
entr:&es. 

Any  small,  dainty  dish  is  proper  for  an  entree, 
from  minced  yeal  or  beef,  "which  is  only  glorified  hash 
(see  chapter  on  warming  over),  to  salmon  or  game  cut- 
lets. 

As  a  rnle,  I  think  an  entree  should  differ  as  far  as 
possible  from  every  other  part  of  the  dinner.  For  ex- 
ample, the  day  on  which  I  had  mock-turtle  soup  I 
would  not  have  the  entree  of  calf's  head  ;  nor  with 
oyster  soup  w^ould  I  have  oyster  patties.  Yet  there 
are  cases  where  circumstances,  rather  than  taste,  must 
be  the  guide. 

The  entrees  are  generally  the  weak  point  of  a  dinner, 
and  are  consequently  the  test  of  a  good  cook. 

calf's  head,  hollandaise  sauce. 

If  you  have  made  mock-turtle  soup,  you  may  have 
some  of  the  meat  remaining ;  simmer  the  pieces  in 
enough  of  the  soup,  or  some  stock,  to  make  them  hot 
through  ;  lay  them  in  a  dish  (see  recipe)  and  cover  with 
half  a  pint  of  HoUandaise  sauce  ;  garnish  with  cut  to- 
matoes— or  tomato  sauce  may  be  used. 

calf's  head,  ei^  toktue. 

Take  any  pieces  that  may  be  reserved  from  making 
soup,  and  a  cup  of  the  soup  ;  melt  one  ounce  of  butter 

157 


158  Practical  Recipes, 

in  a  saucepan,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  pour  in 
the  cup  of  soup,  stirring  till  smooth  ;  strain  into  this 
the  juice  of  a  large  ripe  tomato,  and  the  liquor  from 
half  a  can  of  mushrooms  and  a  dozen  of  the  mush- 
rooms ;  lay  the  pieces  of  meat  in  this  sauce  ;  let  them 
stew  for  twenty  minutes,  taking  great  care  they  do  not 
burn.  Take  them  up  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them  ; 
have  ready  a  saucepan  or  frying-kettle  of  very  liot  fat 
(see  recipe)  ;  break  into  cups  as  many  eggs  as  you  have 
guests  ;  drop  them  one  by  one  into  the  smoking  fat, 
just  as  if  it  were  water  and  you  were  going  to  poach 
them;  one  minute  ought  to  brown  them,  and  fried  in  this 
way  they  will  be  quite  round — do  only  one  at  a  time,  or 
while  you  take  one  out  the  other  would  harden — lay 
these  round  the  dish  ;  garnish  with  stoned  olives  or  tiny 
gherkins. 

calf's  tokgue  stewed. 

Cut  little  fillets  of  salt  pork  ;  sprinkle  them  with  a 
mixture  of  parsley,  very  finely-chopped  chives  (or  on- 
ion), salt,  and  pepper ;  trim  the  tongue  ;  parboil  it  to 
take  ojff  the  skin  ;  then  lard  it  with  these  fillets  (see 
Larding)  ;  put  in  a  small  stone  crock  with  a  lid,  two 
slices  of  fat  pork,  two  sprigs  of  parsley,  two  of  thyme, 
one  bay  leaf,  one  clove,  half  an  onion,  one  carrot  cut 
in  slices,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  one  of  pepper  ; 
lay  the  tongue  on  the  vegetables,  etc. ;  pour  in  half  a 
glass  of  wine  and  a  glass  of  broth  or  soup ;  cover  it ;  set 
it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three  hours  and  a  half,  keep- 
ing it  well  covered. 

Take  up  the  tongue,  lay  it  in  a  dish,  strain  the  gravy 
to  it,  and  either  surround  it  with  green  peas,  string 
beans,  or  tomato  sauce. 


Entrees.  159 

calf's  braijsts,  au  beurre  noip. 

Soak  the  brains  in  one  tablespoonful  of  yinegar  and 
one  quart  of  water ;  carefully  remove  all  the  fibrous 
skin  that  surrounds  them  without  breaking  them  ;  put 
them  in  boiling  water  well  salted,  and  with  them  a 
small  bunch  of  parsley,  a  saltspoonf ul  of  powdered  mar- 
joram, and  one  of  thyme  ;  let  them  boil  gently  twenty 
minutes ;  while  they  are  doing  so,  fry  some  rounds  of 
bread  the  size  of  the  top  of  a  teacup  and  half  an  inch 
thick,  in  yery  hot  fat.  Take  up  the  brains,  drain  them, 
diyide  them,  and  put  a  neat  piece  on  each  round  of 
fried  bread  ;  stick  a  piece  of  red  beetroot  in  the  top  of 
each  piece  of  brain  and  pour  oyer  them  the  heurre  noir 
(see  recipe). 

SWEETBREADS,    FRIED. 

When  they  come  from  the  butcher  they  should  be 
put  immediately  into  salt  and  water  to  take  out  any 
dark  blood  ;  leaye  them  an  hour,  then  parboil  them  for 
ten  minutes,  drain  them,  and  drop  them  into  cold 
water ;  remoye  all  loose  thick  skin  and  gristle,  but  do 
not  break  them ;  dry  them,  flour  them,  and  then  roll 
them  in  egg  and  bread-crumbs  or  cracker-dust ;  fry  them 
a  rich  light  brown.  If  large,  they  should  be  split  before 
crumbing ;  serye  round  a  mound  of  green  peas,  and 
bechamel  or  tomato  sauce  in  a  boat. 

SWEETBREADS    STEWED    W^ITH    MUSHROOMS. 

Prepare  a  pair  of  sweetbreads  by  parboiling  and  skin- 
ning (see  last  recipe),  then  lard  them  all  oyer  the  top  ; 
lay  some  slices  of  fat  pork  in  a  stewpan,  also  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  chopped  onion,  two  of  carrot,  a  stick  of  celery, 
and  two  sprigs  of  parsley ;  the  yegetables  must  be  finely 


1 6o  Practical  Recipes. 

minced  ;  lay  the  sweetbreads  on  these ;  add  a  cup  of 
stock,  but  not  enough  to  coyer  the  sweetbreads ;  let 
them  slowly  stew  one  hour  ;  then  take  up  the  sweet- 
breads and  set  them  with  the  larded  side  up  in  the  oven 
till  they  are  pale  irown  ;  strain  the  gravy,  rubbing  as 
much  through  the  sieve  as  you  can  ;  put  it  back  in  a 
saucepan,  thicken  with  a  teaspoonf ul  of  roux  ;  put  in  a 
dozen  and  a  half  of  canned  mushrooms  ;  let  it  boil  a 
minute  ;  put  the  sweetbreads  on  a  dish,  pour  the  mush- 
rooms in  the  centre  and  j;he  gravy  round.  If  the  stock 
should  have  dried  away,  boiling  water  or  more  stock  can 
be  added. 

SWEETBREADS,    THE   SIMPLEST   WAY. 

Parboil  and  skin  them  ;  cut  them  up  in  small  pieces  ; 
put  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  ;  when  hot, 
drop  the  sweetbreads  in  with  a  saltspoonful  of  salt ;  let 
them  cook  slowly  twenty  minutes,  occasionally  shaking 
them  ;  take  them  out ;  stir  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  into 
the  butter,  and  add  half  a  cup  of  broth  or  water,  stir- 
ring carefully ;  boil  till  thick  and  smooth  ;  return  the 
sweetbread  ;  let  it  stew  a  minute,  and  serve  either  on 
squares  of  toast  or  with  three-cornered  pieces  of  toast 
sticking  round  it. 

YEAL   CUTLETS. 

Take  the  cutlets  from  the  middle  of  the  leg  ;  let  them 
be  cut  an  inch  thick  ;  divide  into  small  shapely  pieces ; 
pound  each  piece  with  a  rolling-pin  till  they  are  half  an 
inch  thick  ;  squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  over  each 
and  pile  them  up  one  on  the  other  for  a  couple  of  hours 
or  until  you  want  to  use  them.  The  lemon  juice  makes 
them  very  tender.     Season  them  with  salt,  and  egg  and 


Entrees^  1 6 1 

bread-crumb  them  (see  directions)  carefully.  Although 
it  is  customary  to  speak  of  fried  veal  cutlets,  they  are 
usually  fried  in  just  enough  fat,  for  which  process  there 
seems  no  proper  English  term  but  ^^  dry  frying  J^  Veal 
cutlets  are  one  of  the  few  things  better  cooked  in  this 
way  than  immersed  in  boiling  fat.  The  reason  is,  be- 
cause they  require  to  cook  more  slowly  than  most  other 
things. 

Put  in  a  pan  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  "beef  drip- 
ping, if  you  have  it,  or  lard,  and  any  fat  belonging  to 
the  cutlets  ;  let  it  get  thoroughly  hot ;  lay  in  the  cut- 
lets and  let  them  get  pale  brown  one  side  before  you 
turn  them  ;  do  this  with  a  cake  turner,  carefully — they 
will  take  from  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes,  for  they  re- 
quire to  be  thoroughly  done.  Take  them  up  and  pour 
the  fat  out  of  the  pan,  put  in  it  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
brown  thickening,  and  when  it  has  melted  pour  in  a 
cup  of  cream  and  hot  water,  or  broth  ;  stir  well,  rubbing 
all  the  gravy  from  the  pan  ;  put  in  a  saltspoonf ul  of  salt, 
quarter  of  pepper.  Dress  the  cutlets  on  a  dish  and  pour 
the  gravy  round,  not  over  them. 

For  those  who  like  ham^  they  may  be  served  with  a 
small  slice  of  ham  to  each  cutlet,  and  the  ham  being 
fried  first,  the  cutlets  are  fried  in  the  fat  from  it,  in- 
stead of  lard. 

MUTTOK  OR  LAMB  CHOPS  BREADED. 

These  must  be  nicely  trimmed,  only  about  the  third 
of  an  inch  of  fat  left  on  the  outside  ;  and,  if  they  are 
loin  chops,  the  soft  flap  end  turned  round,  horseshoe 
fashion  ;  if  rib  chops,  cut  an  inch  and  a  half  of  the 
meat  from  the  bone  and  scrape  it. 

Egg  and  crumb  them  (see  directions),  and  drop  them 


1 62  Practical  Recipes, 

into  yery  hot  fat.  Mutton  chops  will  take  one  minute 
to  cook,  lamb  chops  two  minutes.  If  the  fat  has  been 
properly  hot,  the  former  will  be  a  rich  brown  outside 
and  pink  within,  in  that  time.  The  lamb  chops  require 
to  be  well  done. 

The  chops  may  be  laid  round  a  mound  of  green  peas, 
string  beans,  or  mashed  potatoes. 

chicke:?^  croquettes. 

Take  the  flesh  of  half  a  chicken,  or  rather  more  than 
half  a  box  of  boned  chicken  (I  find  for  croquettes  the 
boned  chicken  quite  as  good,  and  a  great  saving  of 
work)  ;  chop  the  chicken,  and  with  it  half  a  can  of 
mushrooms,  or  half  a  dozen  large  oysters. 

Put  a  good  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour  ;  stir  over  the  fire  till  they  bub- 
ble ;  put  into  a  half-pint  measure  a  gill  of  strong  stock, 
half  a  gill  of  cream,  and  liquor  of  oysters  or  mushrooms 
to  make  two  gills  ;  pour  this  on  to  the  butter  and  flour, 
stir  till  a  tliicTc  sauce  is  formed  ;  then  put  in  the  chop- 
ped chicken  and  mushroom,  with  half  a  saltspoonf  ul  of 
pepper,  one  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice ; 
stir  well,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn.  Take  it 
off  the  fire — it  should  be  a  sort  of  thick  mush,  and  very 
creamy  ;  butter  two  plates  ;  turn  it  oat  and  spread  the 
mixture  on  them  ;  put  it  on  the  ice  so  that  it  may  get 
cold  and  firm. 

When  quite  firm  cut  the  mixture  into  strips,  form  it 
between  the  hands  into  rolls  like  corks,  or  small  pears  ;  if 
the  latter,  have  ready  some  short  willow  or  other  twigs 
to  insert  after  they  are  crumbed.  Be  very  careful  not  to 
have  the  croquettes  too  large  or  they  will  burst  in  frying. 
The  quantity  given  will  make  from  twelve  to  fifteen. 


Entries.  1 63 

Have  at  least  a  pound  of  cracker-powder  on  a  board  ; 
roll  each  one  in  it  ;  have  an  ^gg  beaten  with  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  water ;  dip  each  croquette  in  the  Qgg  and 
again  in  the  cracker-dust,  laying  them  as  you  do  them 
on  a  dish  well  strewed  with  cracker-powder.  In  crumb- 
ing use  one  hand  to  pass  the  croquettes  through  the 
Qgg^  the  other  to  crumb  them. 

Have  the  fat  exceedingly  hot,  so  that  the  bread  you 
try  with  colors  in  thirty  seconds ;  arrange  the  croquettes 
in  a  frying-basket  not  more  than  six  at  a  time,  and  im- 
merse them  ;  the  fat  must  be  deep  enough  to  cover  the 
croquettes,  and  they  should  brown  in  two  minutes; 
they  are  then  done.  Lift  the  frying-basket  out,  stand 
it  on  brown  paper,  and  lift  each  croquette  out  carefully 
on  to  a  hot  dish ;  lay  in  half  a  dozen  more  and  fry 
them.  Croquettes  look  better  garnished  with  fried 
parsley  than  anything  else. 

CHICKEN    RISSOLES. 

Make  the  same  mixture  as  for  croquettes  ;  indeed,  in 
cold  weather  and  when  only  a  small  dish  of  croquettes 
is  required,  a  part  of  the  mixture  can  be  kept  for  two 
or  three  days,  by  covering  it  with  buttered  paper,  and 
then  used  for  rissoles  or  fritters.  If  you  have  no  pastry 
ready,  rub  three  ounces-  of  butter  into  four  ounces  of 
flour ;.  wet  with  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff,  smooth 
paste.  Flour  a  pastry-board  and  rolling-pin,  and  roll 
the  paste  out  as  thin  as  possible  ;  cut  it  in  pieces  four 
inches  long  and  three  wide.  KoU  the  chicken  mixture 
into  small  sausage-like  forms,  the  thickness  of  your 
finger  ;  lay  them  on  the  paste,  wet  the  edges  and  roll  it 
oyer  the  chicken,  pressing  the  paste  together  smoothly 
that  they  may  not  burst.     Egg  and  crumb  these  just 


1 64  Practical  Recipes. 

the  same  as  croquettes  and  fry  in  the  same  way,  only 
rissoles  require  four  minutes  to  cook  instead  of  two. 
Serve  them  log-house  fashion  with  fried  parsley  in  the 
middle. 

CHICKEIiq"   FRITTERS. 

This  is  again  the  same  mixture  as  for  croquettes  and 
rissoles,  but  the  fritter  is  a  delicious  variety.  Make 
some  tliich  f  rying-batter  (see  recipe)  ;  make  the  chicken 
mixture  into  balls  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  flatten  them  a 
little.  Have  the  fat  very  hot,  the  batter  ready,  and  then 
drop  each  ball  into  the  batter,  which  must  be  made 
thick  enough  to  coat  them  so  that  the  meat  is  not  seen 
through  it ;  instead  of  arranging  these  in  the  frying- 
basket  as  you  would  croquettes,  have  the  basket  in  the 
fat  and  drop  each  fritter  from  the  end  of  a  spoon  into 
it.  The  fat  must  be  hot  enough  to  make  the  batter 
puff  up  at  once  ;  when  a  rich  brown  they  are  done. 
Lift  out  the  basket,  drain,  and  serve  with  fried  parsley. 

KROMESQUIES   OF   CHICKEiT 

Are  the  same  as  rissoles,  only  instead  of  the  minced 
chicken  being  enveloped  in  paste,  very  thin  slices  of  fat 
pork  are  used,  fastened  with  wooden  toothpicks,  and 
they  are  then  crumbed  and  fried.  They  are  more  diffi- 
cult than  croquettes  or  rissoles,  but  very  delicious. 
They  may  be  served  in  a  rich  brown  sauce  (see  recipe). 

VARIATIONS    OInT   THE    FOUR   FOREGOIIS'G   RECIPES. 

Turkey,  veal,  or  beef  may  be  used  for  any  of  these 
four  dishes,  instead  of  the  chicken.  A  little  onion  or 
ham,  or  any  flavoring  preferred,  may  be  substituted  for 
the  mushrooms  or  oysters,  although  nothing  is  so  good 
as  these. 


Entrees.  1 65 

CHICKEK   FRICASSEE. 

Prepare  a  chicken  as  directed  (see  preparation  of 
poultry).  Cut  each  leg  and  wing  in  two  at  the  joint ; 
cut  the  back  in  two;  the  stomach  makes  one  piece. 
With  the  gizzard  and  neck  there  should  be  thirteen 
pieces. 

Throw  the  pieces  into  boiling  water  for  one  or  two 
minutes,  take  out  and  drain  them.  Put  in  a  stewpan  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  flour ;  when  they  bubble 
add  half  a  pint  of  water  or  broth,  two  sprigs  of  parsley, 
a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  four  small  onions,  a  small 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonf ul  of  white  pepper,  then 
the  chicken.  Coyer  closely,  and  when  it  reaches  the 
boiling  point  draw  aside  where  it  will  simmer  slowly 
and  not  burn.  Shake  it  round  every  few  minutes.  If 
slowly  cooked  and  closely  covered,  the  sauce  will  not  dry 
away  much  ;  if  it  should  do  so,  add  a  little  more  broth 
or  boiling  water.  When  it  has  cooked  one  hour,  if 
young,  it  will  be  done ;  if  an  old  fowl  it  will  take  two. 
Take  up  the  meat  and  keep  it  hot,  strain  the  sauce,  un- 
less the  onion  is  liked  in  it.  Put  it  back  in  the  stewpan 
with  a  dozen  small  mushrooms  and  a  little  of  their 
liquor,  let  it  boil  one  minute,  then  beat  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  with  a  tablespoonful  of  milk.  Take  the  saucepan 
to  a  cool  place,  wait  one  minute,  then  stir  in  the  beaten 
yolks.  Put  the  saucepan  back  on  the  stove,  stir  till  it 
is  a  thick,  smooth^  yellow  cream,  but  it  must  not  ioil  or 
the  eggs  will  curdle  and  the  appearance  be  spoilt. 

Arrange  the  chicken  on  the  dish  in  the  following 
way  :  The  neck,  gizzard,  forepart  of  the  back,  and 
drumsticks  in  the  middle,  one  upper  part  of  leg  on  each 
side  the  dish,  one  wing  beside  each,  then  the  breast  and 
hind  part  of  the  back,  the  ends  of  the  wings  top  and 


1 66  Practical  Recipes. 

bottom.  Squeeze  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  into  the 
sauce,  lay  the  mushrooms  oyer  the  meat  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  all.     Serve. 

This  is  decidedly  the  best  way  to  make  the  dish,  but 
more  difficult  than  the  following,  because  it  requires 
watching  or  it  will  burn. 

SIMPLEK   MODE   TOR   FRICASSEE. 

Prepare  the  chicken  as  before,  put  it  in  a  stewpan 
with  half  a  pint  of  water,  one  large  or  four  small 
onions,  two  sprigs  of  parsley,  a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  a 
scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper  ;  lay 
in  the  chicken ;  cook  as  before.  When  done,  take  it 
out,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  small  one  of 
flour  into  a  small  saucepan  ;  cook  till  they  bubble, 
strain  the  gravy  from  the  chicken,  to  this,  stir  till 
smooth,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beaten  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  milk  ;  when  it  has  cooled  one  minute  stir 
in  a  hot  spot  but  do  not  boil ;  pour  this  sauce  over  the 
chicken,  arranged  as  in  last  recipe.  The  mushrooms 
may  be  added  or  not,  as  convenient. 

Little  squares  or  crescents  of  rough  puff  paste,  baked 
and  laid  round  either  of  these  fricassees  are  a  very  nice 
addition  and  serve  to  garnish. 

PRICASSEE   OF   YEAL 

Is  made  in  the  same  way,  but  is  improved  by  forcemeat 
balls,  poached  (see  recipe),  and  laid  round. 

SALMI    OF   DUCK    OR   GAME. 

Strictly  speaking,  a  salmi  differs  from  warmed-over 
duck  or  game,  because  the  birds  are  only  supposed  to 
be  half  cooked  on  purpose  for  it. 


Entrees.  1 67 

But,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  an  excellent  salmi  can  be 
prepared  from  birds  that  have  already  done  duty  for 
dinner,  provided  they  were  not  overcooked  and  the 
sauce  made  very  rich. 

Cut  up  the  cold  bird  into  neat  joints,  take  away  all 
skin  and  gristle,  take  all  bones  that  are  bare  of  meat, 
bruise  them  well ;  lay  the  meat  in  a  saucepan  and  put  it 
aside;  lay  the  bones,  skin  and  trimmings  with  any  gravy 
in  another  saucepan,  into  which  put  a  small  carrot,  an 
onion,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  quarter  one  of  pepper,  two 
sprigs  of  parsley,  a  clove,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  bay  leaf,  a 
saltspoonful  of  thyme,  an  ounce  of  butter.  The  carrot 
and  onion,  must  be  cut  very  fine.  Let  all  these  fry  in  the 
butter  till  they  are  all  colored  light  brown,  then  put  in 
half  a  pint  of  broth  or  water  and  a  gill  of  wine,  red  or 
white,  with  one  lump  of  sugar.  Let  all  stew,  well 
covered,  till  reduced  to  one-half  ;  then  make  half  a  pint 
of  brown  sauce  (see  recipe),  if  you  have  none  ready; 
put  it  to  the  bones  and  vegetables,  let  them  stew  an- 
other half  hour.  Then  strain,  taste  if  seasoned  enough, 
and  pour  into  the  saucepan  with  the  meat.  Leave  them 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  come  back  to  boiling  point,  but 
not  to  boil.  Dish  the  bird,  let  the  sauce  boil  fast  to  re- 
duce it,  skimming  it  well.  When  there  is  only  enough 
to  serve  with  the  meat  pour  it  over  it ;  serve  with  fried 
sippets  round  the  dish,  on  each  of  which  may  be  a  stoned 
olive,  or  half  a  spoonful  of  red  currant  jelly  if  approved. 

SALMI   SAUCE. 

The  sauce  made  as  above  is  called  by  professional 
cooks  ^^ Salmi  Sauce";  it  is  not  troublesome  to  make, 
and  is  equally  good  for  warming  over  slices  of  cold  beef 
or  mutton. 


1 68  Practical  Recipes, 

salmo:n'  croquettes. 

Take  the  remains  of  dressed  salmon,  free  from  the  skin 
and  bone,  which  should  be  bruised  and  boiled  for  stock  in 
a  pint  of  water  until  reduced  to  half  a  pint;  tear  the  flesh 
into  shreds ;  make  a  bechamel  sauce  of  the  fish  stock, 
using  a  full  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  same  of  flour 
(see  recipe) ;  when  thick  and  smooth  add  a  gill  of  thick 
cream,  a  glass  of  sherry  or  white  wine,  and  the  beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs — these  must  be  stirred  in  last  and  al- 
lowed to  come  to  the  boiling  point  but  not  to  boil;  then 
put  in  half  a  pound  of  salmon  flakes.  It  should  be  as 
thick  as  oatmeal  porridge  ;  when  turned  on  to  a  but- 
tered plate  it  should  spread,  but  not  run;  spread  it  an 
inch  thick  on  a  plate  and  set  on  ice  to  get  quite  cold. 
When  wanted  for  use  divide  into  pieces,  shape  into  the 
form  of  corks,  egg  and  crumb  them  (see  Crumbing)  and 
fry  two  minutes  in  very  hot  fat. 

Dipped  into  frying  batter  these  are  excellent.  Gar- 
nish with  fried  parsley,  and  serve  with  cucumber  salad. 

LOBSTER   CUTLETS   A:N'D    CROQUETTES. 

Take  the  meat  from  a  good-sized  lobster  ;  put  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  one  of  flour  in  a  saucepan  on 
the  fire  ;  stir  till  they  bubble  ;  pour  into  it  a  gill  of 
water,  a  gill  of  cream,  and  a  glass  of  white  wine  5  stir 
till  thick  and  smooth  ;  beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs ; 
stir  them  in  with  the  meat  of  the  lobster,  and  enough 
of  the  coral  bruised  to  make  the  whole  a  fine  red  ;  stir 
it  over  the  fire  till  it  is  at  boiling  point  ;  turn  the  mix- 
ture out  on  a  buttered  plate  and  set  it  to  harden.  Flour 
your  hands  and  form  the  mixture  when  cold  into  cut- 
lets, as  near  as  you  can,  the  shape  and  size  of  a  small 
lamb  cutlet.     Crumb  them  as  directed  for  croquettes  ; 


Entries.  1 69 

stick  one  of  the  small  lobster  claws  in  the  end  of  each 
cutlet  to  represent  the  bone.  Arrange  in  the  frying- 
basket  yery  carefully  and  fry  in  very  hot  fat. 

Lobster  croquettes  are  made  from  the  same  mixture, 
but  formed  into  cork  or  cone  shapes. 

ROUGH   PUFF   PASTE. 

{South  Kensington  School  of  Coohery.) 
This  pastry  will  serve  for  most  purposes  for  which 
puff  paste  is  used  ;  it  is  better  than  most  home-made 
puff  paste,  and  takes  no  longer  to  make  than  common 
short  paste,  while  puff  paste  is  the  most  laborious  work 
of  the  kitchen. 

Have  the  butter  as  hard  as  possible,  the  chopping- 
bowl  and  knife  cold.  Take  eight  ounces  of  flour  and 
six  of  butter  ;  put  them  in  a  chopping-bowl  and  chop 
together,  not  too  fine  ;  make  a  hole  in  the  centre  of  the 
flour  and  butter,  in  which  put  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  a 
quarter  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice  and  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  ice-water  ;  break  the  egg  in 
this  water  with  a  knife  ;  then  slowly  and  lightly  mix  it 
all  with  the  fingers,  using  more  water  if  necessary  to  form 
a  stiff  paste.  Handle  it  lightly ;  keep  the  hands  and 
board  well  floured  that  the  paste  may  not  stick. 

Take  the  rolling-pin,  flour  it,  and  roll  out  the  paste 
into  an  oblong  sheet  half  an  inch  thick ;  fold  it  one- 
third  over,  then  the  other  third  over  that  (you  have 
now  a  neat  piece  of  three  thicknesses)  ;  turn  the  rough 
edges  toward  you,  roll  it  out  again,  and  fold  in  the  same 
way  ;  do  so  once  more,  always  turning  the  rough  edges 
toward  you,  and  it  is  ready  to  use  at  once  ;  but  if  the 
day  is  hot  and  you  have  time  to  lay  it  on  the  ice  for  a 
short  time  it  will  be  better  ;  also,  if  during  the  process 


1 70  Practical  Recipes, 

of  rolling  it  shows  signs  of  sticking,  laying  it  on  the  ice  in 
a  tin  for  a  few  minutes,  will  make  your  work  the  easier. 

The  only  art  in  this  pastry  is  to  follow  directions 
exactly^  and  to  handle  lightly.  Many  will  say,  "  I  have 
not  a  light  hand.''  I  answer  :  Every  woman  has  a  light 
hand  if  she  is  handling  white  satin  or  velvet.  Handle 
pastry  as  delicately  as  if  it  were  satin  or  velvet  and  the 
pile  would  crush. 

Before  using  this  paste,  read  chapter  on  Pastry  (part 
first);  all  that  relates  to  using  puff  paste  applies  to  this. 

This  paste  made  one  day,  or  only  mixed,  and  once 
rolled  and  folded,  and  finished  and  used  the  next,  is 
always  better,  and  in  ice  may  be  kept  two  or  three  days 
and  be  the  better  for  it. 

I  find  it  a  good  plan  in  summer  when  I  want  to  make 
paste,  to  put  chopping-bowl  and  knife  and  rolling-pin 
in  or  on  the  ice-box,  and  have  the  pastry  board  as  cool 
as  you  can.  With  soft  butter  and  warm  tools  you  can 
never  have  flaky  or  light  paste. 

Patties  are  among  the  most  acceptable  entrees,  and 
with  the  South  Kensington  rough  puff  paste  very  easy 
to  make,  although  the  cases  can  be  bought  ready  at  a 
pastry  cook's  and  filled  at  home. 

PATTY   CASES. 

Take  some  rough  puff  paste  ;  roll  it  a  third  of  an  inch 
thick,  not  less  ;  have  a  medium-sized  biscuit  cutter  and 
one  quite  small,  about  the  size  of  a  silver  dollar  ;  cut 
out  three  times  as  many  rounds  with  the  large  cutter  as 
you  want  patties — eighteen  if  you  want  six  ;  pile  them 
three  together,  wetting  the  two  under  ones  slightly 
to  make  them  adhere.  You  have  now  six  patties  rather 
over  an  inch  thick;  take  the  small  cutter,  dip  it  in 


Entrees.        *  1*]\ 

flour,  shake  off  any  that  may  cling,  and  press  it  on  each 
patty,  cutting  only  lialf  way  \hxoVi^.  Take  the  patties 
up  on  a  cake  turner,  and  slip  them  on  to  a  baking  tin  ; 
brush  each  one  over  with  yolk  of  ^gg  beaten  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  water  ;  set  them  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake.  If 
you  have  had  your  paste  cold,  and  handled  it  lightly  and 
quickly,  these  will  rise  to  three  inches  in  height.  They 
require  fifteen  minutes  to  bake.  When  they  are  pale 
brown  all  over,  take  them  out  ;  let  them  stand  one 
minute  ;  then  take  off  the  small  piece  in  the  centre — 
it  will  have  risen  perhaps  out  of  its  place — if  not,  with 
a  sharp-pointed  knife  lift  it  out;  then  take  a  small 
spoon  and  dig  out  the  soft  paste  inside,  leaving  only  a 
crust  about  half  an  inch  thick,  but  be  very  careful  there 
are  no  holes  in  the  walls  or  sides  ;  replace  the  tops  and 
they  are  ready  to  fill  with  either  of  the  following  three 
mixtures,  or  any  other  you  may  choose  : 

LOBSTER   PATTIES. 

Pick  out  the  firm  white  flesh  of  a  hen  lobster ;  cut  it 
into  small  dice.  Put  a  large  teaspoonful  of  flour  and 
two  of  butter  into  a  saucepan  on  the  stove  ;  let  them  bub- 
ble ;  pour  to  it  a  gill  of  cream  or  milk  ;  stir  till  smooth  ; 
then  add  a  teaspoonful  of  the  pounded  coral  to  make  a 
bright  pink  sauce,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  «auce, 
if  you  have  it ;  take  it  from  the  fire  when  it  has  boiled 
two  or  three  minutes ;  beat  the  yolk  of  an  ^gg  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  cold  milk,  and  stir  it  in  gradually ;  keep 
on  stirring,  and  add  the  lobster  meat  at  the  same  time  ; 
set  it  on  the  fire  again  and  let  it  come  to  the  boiling 
point,  hut  not  ioil  or  the  egg  will  curdle.  It  should 
now  look  like  chopped  lobster  in  very  thick  red  cream 
or  custard. 


1 7^  *  Practical  Recipes, 

If  you  need  to  keep  it  hot,  do  so  in  a  saucepan  of  hot 
water  ;  fill  the  patty  cases  neatly,  put  the  top  on  and 
put  them  in  the  oven  ;  but  serve  them  before  they  get 
so  hot  that  the  inside  cooks,  or  the  ^gg  will  curdle  and 
the  pastry  be  spoiled. 

N.  B. — Always  put  the  filling  in  patties  Tiot,  or  it  will 
not  warm  through  till  the  patties  are  spoiled. 

OYSTER   PATTIES. 

Take  a  dozen  and  a  half  Blue  Points  ;  scald  them  in 
their  own  liquor,  being  careful  they  do  not  remain  in 
it  a  moment  after  it  boils;  take  them  out ;  cut  each 
oyster  into  four  pieces,  if  they  are  large;  put  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  butter  in  a  small  saucepan  with  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  flour;  pour  to  this  one  gill  of  the  liquor 
strained  and  one  gill  of  cream  or  milk;  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt  and  half  one  of  white  pepper;  boil  all,  stirring 
till  smooth;  beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  add  this  with 
the  cut-up  oysters  to  the  sauce;  let  all  get  hot  together, 
stirring  all  the  time;  it  must  be  very  thick,  which  it 
will  be  just  before  the  boiling  point;  take  it  from  the 
fire  quickly,  stirring  all  the  time  to  prevent  the  eggs 
curdling;  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  just  a 
suspicion  of  nutmeg. 

These  and  lobster  patties  sliould  be  served  on  a  silver 
dish  with  fried  parsley  and  a  small  crayfish  in  each  cor- 
ner of  the  dish,  if  obtainable. 

CLAM   PATTIES. 

These  are  so  very  good  that  I  think  if  they  were  better 
known  they  would  meet  with  favor. 

Take  small  clams;  scald  them  in  their  own  liquor;  take 
out  the  hard  part,  and  proceed  exactly  as  for  oysters. 


Entrees,  I  '^2^ 


SALMO]N'   PATTIES. 

Prepare  as  lobster  patties,  using  salmon  instead  of  the 
lobster. 

CHICKEN^   PATTIES. 

Take  the  white  meat  of  a  chicken  ;  cut  it  (not  chop 
it)  into  small  dice  ;  take  the  chicken  bones  and  trim- 
mings, if  you  have  no  stock  ready  ;  pound  them  well ; 
put  them  into  a  pint  of  water  with  an  ounce  of  carrot 
cut  fine,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  stick  of  celery,  if  you 
have  it,  and  a  small  onion,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt ; 
stew  these  slowly  two  hours;  strain  the  stock  or  broth  ; 
put  the  liquor  from  half  a  can  of  mushrooms  or  a  gill 
of  oyster  liquor  with  it,  and  boil  it  as  fast  as  possible  till 
there  is  about  a  gill  left;  put  a  gill  of  cream  and  the 
chicken  into  this;  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
and  one  of  butter  cooked  in  a  separate  saucepan  ;  pour 
the  chicken  and  liquor  on  to  it,  and  stir  till  it  all  boils 
gently ;  take  it  off  at  once  ;  two  or  three  chopped 
oysters  or  a  dozen  mushrooms  improve  it  greatly  ;  fill 
the  cases  with  the  hot  filling,  and  serve  on  a  napkin  or 
silver  dish. 

DRESDEK   PATTIES. 

These  cases  are  no  trouble  at  all  to  an  expert  in  fry- 
ing, and  are  elegant  and  economical. 

Take  stale  baher^s  bread  cut  in  thick  slices  ;  with  a 
biscuit  cutter  of  medium  size  cut  rounds  two  inches 
thick.  Make  a  custard  of  two  eggs  and  a  pint  of  milk; 
season  it  with  salt,  of  course  no  sugar;  pour  it  into  a  dish 
and  set  the  rounds  of  bread  in  it,  taking  care  they  are 
well  covered;  turn  them  gently  from  time  to  time  so  that 
they  may  get  well  soaked,  but  they  must  not  break ;  if 


1 74  Practical  Recipes, 

there  is  any  sign  of  them  getting  too  soft  to  hold  together 
take  them  out;  usually  an  hour  sulffices  to  soak  them;  let 
them  drain  ten  minutes  ;  then  you  may  either  flour  the 
outside  or  roll  them  in  egg  and  cracker- dust.  Have  the 
frying-kettle  with  plenty  of  fat  in  it,  which  must  be  hot 
enough  to  color  bread  in  half  a  minute  ;  set  the  soaked 
pieces  of  bread  in  the  frying-basket,  using  a  cake -turner 
to  take  them  up.  They  must  be  very  gently  handled. 
Set  the  frying-basket  in  the  hot  fat  and  fry  till  they 
are  a  fine  light  brown.  Take  them  up  and  with  a  sharp- 
pointed  knife  cut  a  circle  in  the  top,  leaving  a  border 
of  half  an  inch  all  round  ;  with  a  spoon  dig  out  a  good 
deal  of  the  soft  custard-like  centre  ;  fill  this  either 
with  the  same  preparation  as  for  chicken  or  oyster 
patties,  with  sweetbreads,  or  with  preserves,  jelly,  or 
marmalade.  If  they  are  filled  with  meat  of  any  kind 
garnish  with  parsley. 

A  FEW  OLD-FASHIONED  PLAIN  DISHES. 

IKISH   STEW. 

Out  half  a  dozen  lean  chops  from  the  neck  of  mutton; 
flour  them  and  lay  them  in  a  saucepan  or  stewpan  with 
two  onions  cut  in  slices,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  butter ; 
put  them  over  a  quick  fire  and  let  all  brown  lightly, 
stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  burning ;  when  the 
onions  are  a  light  brown  pour  in  a  pint  of  cold  water. 
Skim  off  the  fat  that  will  rise  to  the  top  ;  put  in  a  good 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  level  saltspoonful  of  white  pepper, 
and  set  the  saucepan  where  it  will  simmer  very  gently; 
when  it  has  been  simmering  an  hour  and  a  half,  skim 
it  carefully  ;  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  and  taste  if  the  gravy  is  well  seasoned.     Then 


Entrees,  1 75 

put  in  half  a  dozen  large  (or  more  if  small)  potatoes  cut 
in  half  ;  coyer  closely  and  simmer  another  hour.  The 
potatoes  do  not  require  to  be  covered  with  the  gravy, 
they  simply  steam  over  the  meat  ;  sufficient  good  rich 
gravy  for  the  meat  is  all  that  is  necessary  ;  to  cover  the 
potatoes  with  liquid,  as  is  often  done,  is  to  make  a 
quantity  of  brothy  but  no  gravy. 

Arrange  the  chops  in  the  centre  of  a  dish,  the  potatoes 
round,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  all. 

HAKICOT   OF   MUTTOl!^    (sIMPLE). 

Take  some  nice  rib  chops  ;  trim  off  all  but  very  little 
fat ;  flour  them,  lay  them  in  a  stewpan  and  brown  them 
well  and  quickly,  taking  care  that  they  do  not  burn  ; 
cut  up  a  carrot  and  a  turnip  into  neat  pieces,  and  a  large 
onion  ;  put  them  in  with  the  chops,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  quarter  one  of  pepper,  and  water  enough  to  cover 
them,  no  more ;  let  them  simmer  very  gently  two  hours 
and  a  half ;  skim  carefully  to  remove  all  grease.  Take 
up  the  chops  ;  arrange  them  on  a  dish  round  a  mound 
of  neatly-cut  string  beans  ;  arrange  the  carrot  and  tur- 
nip neatly  round  the  chops  and  put  them  to  keep  hot, 
while  you  stir  a  dessert-spoonful  of  brown  thickening 
if  you  have  it  (see  recipe  for  Koux  or  Brown  Thick- 
ening) into  the  gravy  (or  else  use  butter  and  brown 
flour).  Let  it  boil ;  taste  for  seasoning,  and  strain  it 
over  the  meat  and  vegetables. 

STEWED   BEEFSTEAK. 

Take  two  pounds  of  round  steak ;  cut  in  pieces  the 
size  to  serve  ;  flour  them,  and  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
salt ;  lay  them  in  a  stewpan  with  two  dessert-spoonfuls 
of  vinegar,  and  cover  closely  ;  place  the  stewpan  where  it 


1 76  Practical  Recipes, 

will  gently  cook,  and  leave  it  one  hour.  Then  take  off 
the  cover ;  cut  into  it  one  onion,  one  small  carrot,  one 
small  turnip,  and  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  hot  water  ;  cover 
again  and  let  it  simmer  two  hours  longer.  Take  up  the 
meat  and  keep  it  hot.  Stir  into  tlie  gravy,  if  you  have 
them,  a  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  and  one  of  mush- 
room catsup,  or  Harvey  sauce,  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
brown  thickening ;  strain  it,  rubbing  all  the  vegetables 
you  can  through  the  strainer  ;  let  it  boil  up  and  pour 
it  over  the  meat.  If  preferred,  the  vegetables  may  be 
left  in  and  served  with  the  steak. 

SEA   PIE. 

This  old-fashioned  English  dish  is  very  good  in 
winter. 

Take  two  pounds  of  meat ;  if  you  buy  it  on  purpose, 
use  part  lean  mutton  and  part  beef,  or  beef,  mutton, 
and  veal ;  although  mutton  or  beef  alone  will  do  ;  put 
them  into  a  saucepan  with  just  water  to  cover  them ; 
cut  quite  small,  two  onions,  half  a  small  carrot,  and 
half  a  turnip,  with  two  heaped  saltspoons  of  salt,  and 
a  half  one  of  pepper  ;  put  to  the  whole  a  pint  and 
half  of  water ;  let  the  whole  stew  slowly  two  hours. 
Meanwhile  make  a  suet  crust  (see  recipe  for  Suet  Crust) 
of  six  ounces  of  suet  and  ten  of  flour ;  roll  it  out  till 
it  will  about  fit  the  saucepan,  and  an  inch  thick  or 
rather  less.  Skim  the  gravy,  when  it  has  cooked  two 
hours,  removing  all  fat ;  taste  if  salt  enough,  and  add 
sauce  for  flavoring  if  you  choose.  Then  put  on  the 
suet  crust  for  cover,  making  it  fit  over  the  meat  closely ; 
for  this  reason  take  care  that  you  rolled  it  large  enough  ; 
if  too  large  never  mind,  let  it  turn  up  at  the  sides  a 
little.      Put  on  the  cover  of  the  saucepan  and  cook 


Entrees.  1 77 

slowly  another  hour.  It  must  cook  slowly  or  the  meat 
will  be  stringy ;  it  must  not  stop  cooking  or  the  crust 
will  be  heavy. 

When  done,  cut  the  crust  across  pie-fashion  ;  lift  out 
i9ach  of  the  pieces  and  lay  them  round  a  dish,  then  pour 
meat  and  gravy  in  the  centre  and  serve. 


CHAPTER   XXVI. 
EOASTS. 

KOAST   BEEF. 

Very  full  directions  are  giyen  in  Chapter  VIII  for 
roasting  of  all  kinds.  Yet  to  save  referring  back,  I  re- 
peat the  recipes,  remarking  that  if  you  roast  one  thing 
well,  and  know  why  you  do  it,  you  can  roast  all. 

A  piece  of  ribs  of  beef  weighing  eight  pounds  will 
take  an  hour  and  quarter  to  an  hour  and  half,  according 
to  whether  you  like  it  rare  or  well  done. 

Set  the  joint  on  a  wire  stand  in  a  dripping-pan;  dust 
it  over  with  flour,  but  do  not  season  it ;  put  it  in  a  hot 
oven  ;  meat  put  in  a  cool  oven,  and  both  allowed  to  get 
hot  together,  will  neither  be  sightly  nor  toothsome; 
baste  it  frequently. 

If  you  choose,  and  your  meat  is  fat  enough  to  war- 
rant it,  you  may  put  a  few  peeled  potatoes  in  the  drip- 
ping-pan, sprinkling  them  with  salt,  and  turning  them 
about  when  you  baste  the  meat,  so  that  they  may  brown; 
turn  the  joint  over  when  it  has  been  one  hour  in  the 
oven,  so  that  it  may  brown  equally. 

When  the  meat  is  done  it  should  look  of  a  rich  dark 
mahogany  color,  brown  all  over  but  nowhere  burnt. 
Take  it  up  on  a  hot  dish;  if  you  have  potatoes  put  them 
round  it.  Set  the  dripping-pan  on  the  stove ;  having 
poured  ofl  the  fat  carefully,  and  pour  into  it  a  cup  of 

178 


"  Roasts.  I  79 

boiling  water  ;  with  a  spoon  remove  eyery  scrap  of  the 
sticky  dark  substance  that  clings  to  the  pan,  it  will  all 
dissolve  on  the  back  of  the  spoon;  put  in  one  saltspoon 
of  salt  and  a  little  pepper;  let  this  boil  two  or  three 
minutes  on  the  stove  till  dark  and  rich;  then  serve  it  in 
a  sauce-boat;  sprinkle  the  beef  with  fine  salt,  garnish  it 
with  parsley  and  horse-radish  scraped  (if  you  have  pa- 
tience and  a  sharp  knife),  it  is  far  better  than  the 
ground  horse-radish  in  flavor,  and  of  course  the  long, 
delicate  shreds  are  more  ornamental,  little  tufts  of  the 
white  and  green  alternately  are  a  pretty  garnish. 

FILLET   OF   BEEF. 

Trim  it  very  carefully;  remove  the  gristly  skin  from 
it,  if  the  butcher  has  not  done  so;  this  must  be  carefully 
done  not  to  disfigure  the  fillet;  round  off  the  ends  and 
any  superfluous  fat;  in  short,  make  it  a  neat,  compact 
piece  of  meat.     Lard  it,  (see  Larding). 

Set  it  in  a  dripping-pan  on  a  wire  stand,  with  some 
beef /a^,  not  suet,  for  basting.  Half  an  hour  to  three- 
quarters,  if  very  large,  will  cook  it  in  a  hot  oven. 

Serve  with  brown  mushroom  sauce. 

KOAST   LEG   OF   MUTTOK. 

Eub  the  skin  of  a  leg  of  mutton  with  salt  (from  the 
skin  there  is  no  gravy  to  draw  out);  flour  it  lightly;  set 
ib  in  a  dripping-pan  without  water,  and  put  it  in  a  hot 
oven;  an  hour  and  a  half  will  cook  a  medium-sized  leg, 
unless  liked  well  done,  when  it  will  take  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  more. 

When  done  take  it  from  the  pan,  set  it  on  a  hot  dish, 
and  put  it  to  keep  hot.  Pour  the  dripping  off  very 
carefully  from  the  corner  of  the  pan,  changing  the  corner 


1 8o  Practical  Recipes. 

when  the  dark  sediment  begins  to  run,  as  you  wish  to 
save  that,  yet  get  rid  of  all  grease;  set  the  pan  on 
the  stove  and  pour  into  it  a  small  cup  of  water, 
with  a  salt  spoonful  of  salt;  rub  off  all  the  gravy  and  dark 
substance  from  the  pan  ;  let  it  boil  till  all  is  dissolved, 
then  pour  through  a  strainer  into  sauce-tureen  and 
serve. 

ROAST   SADDLE   OF   MUTTOInT. 

Have  the  saddle  neatly  trimmed  and  superfluous  fat 
removed;  skin  it  and  skewer  the  skin  over  it  till  it  is 
nearly  done. 

Set  it  in  the  oven  one  hour  and  a  half  before  it  is 
wanted,  if  it  weighs  about  six  pounds  ;  the  oven  must  oi 
course  be  hot;  baste  frequently,  and  half  an  hour  before 
it  is  done  take  off  the  skin;  dredge  the  saddle  with  flour; 
sift  a  little  fine  salt  over  it,  and  put  it  in  a  part  of  the 
oven  where  it  will  brown  well  without  burning. 

Take  it  up  on  a  very  hot  platter,  pour  the  fat  carefully 
from  the  dripping-pan,  put  in  a  cup  of  hot  water,  rub 
off  all  the  glaze  or  gravy  on  the  pan,  season  with  salt 
and  put  into  the  gravy  a  glass  of  claret  and  a  spoonful 
of  red  currant  jelly;  serve  the  gravy  in  a  tureen. 

The  saddle  should  be  carved  lengthwise  of  the  joint. 

ROAST   LAMB. 

Lamb  requires  to  be  very  thoroughly  cooked.  A  leg 
of  lamb  is  roasted  exactly  as  a  leg  of  mutton.  One 
weighing  four  to  five  pounds  will  take  an  hour  and 
half.     Serve  with  mint  sauce  (see  recipe). 

ROAST   FILLET   OF   YEAL. 

No  meat  requires  more  careful  cooking  than  roast 
veal.    Any   meat    more    insipid    than   plain    unsavory 


Roasts,  1 8  r 

veal  is  not  to  be  imagined.  The  less  condiment  there 
is  about  roast  beef  or  mutton  the  better,  but  yeal  re- 
quires a  great  deal. 

The  handsomest  joint  of  veal  is  the  fillet,  as  the  part 
of  the  leg  from  which  the  cutlet  is  cut  is  called.  Take 
a  piece  about  five  pounds  ;  remove  the  bone  in  the 
centre,  fill  it  with  veal  forcemeat  (see  recipe) ;  also 
make  a  pocket  with  your  finger  between  the  skin  and 
the  flesh  and  lay  forcemeat  in  it.  Skewer  the  veal ; 
bind  it  firmly  into  a  round  shajoe,  and  flour  it ;  cover  it 
with  very  thin  slices  of  fat  pork  ;  set  it  on  a  wire  stand 
in  a  dripping-pan  and  put  it  in  a  moderate  oven.  Veal 
requires  very  thorough  cooking  and  will  take  half  an 
hour  to  the  pound.  Therefore  great  care  must  be  taken 
that  it  does  not  burn  before  it  comes  out  of  the  oven  ; 
it  should  be  often  basted,  and  be  a  bright,  dark  brown 
all  over.  If  pork  is  objected  to,  spread  butter  over  it 
before  putting  it  in  the  oven. 

Just  before  it  is  taken  out  make  half  a  pint  of  butter 
sauce  (see  recipe).  Then  place  the  meat  on  a  platter  ; 
take  away  all  the  bits  of  pork,  set  the  dripping-pan  on 
the  stove  and  pour  the  sauce  into  it,  send  it  round 
with  your  spoon  into  every  part  till  all  the  glaze  or 
hardened  gravy  is  dissolved  and  the  whole  a  nice  brown. 
Remove  the  strings  and  skewers  from  the  meat  and 
pour  a  little  of  the  brown  gravy  round  it ;  serve  the  rest 
in  a  tureen.     Garnish  with  cut  lemon. 

ROAST   FILLET  OF  YEAL  WITH  MUSHROOMS  OR  OYSTERS. 

Prepare  a  fillet  as  in  the  last  recipe,  only  do  not  re- 
move the  bone  in  the  centre  ;  roast  in  the  same  way. 
While  it  is  cooking  take  a  dozen  large  oysters,  or  more 
if  small,  scald  them  in  their  own  liquor  j  take  them  up, 


1 8  2  Practical  Recipes. 

strain  the  liquor,  stir  an  equal  quantity  of  cream  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  white  thickening  (see  recipe  for  Blanc, 
page  34),  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  into  it,  and  boil  till 
thick.  Take  up  the  me.at ;  with  a  very  sharp  knife  cut 
out  the  bone,  and  a  good  piece  of  meat  round  it  so  as  to 
leave  a  cavity.  Set  the  meat  on  a  platter,  put  it  to  keep 
quite  hot.  Quickly  take  all  the  veal  (free  from  gristle) 
from  the  bone  and  chop  it  with  the  oysters  ;  stir  it  into 
the  sauce  you  have  made  ;  it  should  be  about  as  stiff 
as  mush.  Make  all  hot  together  and  pour  it  into  the 
cavity  of  the  veal.  Make  gravy  as  in  the  last  recipe. 
Mushrooms  chopped  and  stewed  in  butter  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  oysters  if  preferred. 

ROAST  TEAL   AND   MACAROKI   (AN   ITALIAN   DISH). 

Prepare  a  fillet  or  shoulder  of  veal  as  directed,  but 
without  pork  ;  set  it  in  the  oven.  Boil  some  macaroni, 
broken  into  six-inch  lengths,  till  tender.  When  the 
veal  is  within  half  an  hour  of  being  done,  cleanse  and 
trim  some  mushrooms;  cut  them  up,  sprinkle  salt 
over  them,  and  lay  them  in  the  dripping-pan  with  the 
macaroni.  When  you  take  up  the  meat  lay  the  maca- 
roni round  the  dish,  the  mushrooms  over  it ;  have  drawn 
butter  or  bechamel  sauce  ready  to  pour  into  the  pan  ; 
boil  it  up  and  strain  it,  taking  care  to  rub  all  you  can 
of  the  bits  of  mushroom  and  glaze  through  the  strainer. 
Serve  the  gravy  in  a  tureen. 

ROAST   SHOULDER   OF   TEAL,    STUFFED. 

Get  the  butcher  to  bone  the  shoulder ;  cut  off  the 
knuckle  part  and  use  it  for  stock  with  the  bones  (when 
you  have  meat  boned  take  care  to  have  the  bones  sent 
home) ;  fill  the  cavity  where  the  blade  bone  was  with 


Roasts.  183 

good  forcemeat  (see  recipe  for  veal  forcemeat)  ;  skewer 
it  and  flour  it ;  cover  with  fat  pork,  butter,  or  nice 
beef  dripping,  and  bake  it,  allowing  half  an  hour  for 
each  pound  ;  pour  off  the  fat,  if  any,  from  the  dripping- 
pan,  and  make  gravy  as  directed  for  roast  fillet  of  veal. 

ROAST   LOIi^   OF  YEAL. 

Make  a  pocket  with  your  finger  between  the  skin  and 
flesh  of  the  veal  and  insert  the  forcemeat,  or  slices  of 
fat  pork  if  preferred  ;  skewer  it  securely,  flour  it,  put 
buttered  paper  over  the  kidney,  and  rub  the  skin  with 
a  little  salt  and  put  it  in  the  oven  ;  remove  the  paper 
half  an  hour  before  serving.  Make  gravy  as  directed 
for  roast  fillet  of  veal. 

ROAST   LOIK   OF   PORK, 

Select  quite  young  pork  with  very  small  bones,  the 
middle  of  the  loin  is  the  best  part;  if  lean  enough  for 
the  rind  to  be  left  on,  score  it  thoroughly,  for  the  sake 
of  the  carver,  but  not  too  deeply;  the  scores  less  than 
half  an  inch  apart;  a  sharp,  strong  penknife  is  best  for 
the  purpose;  rub  the  pork  over  with  flour,  salt,  and  sage 
leaves,  dried  on  a  plate,  and  rubbed  to  powder. 

Set  it  in  the  dripping-pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven,  allowing  half  an  hour  to  each  pound.  It  must  be 
well  browned,  but  not  burnt.  When  done  take  up  the 
meat,  pour  the  fat  from  the  corner  of  the  dripping-pan, 
taking  care  to  keep  back  the  sediment;  pour  hot  water 
into  the  pan,  set  it  on  the  stove,  dissolve  all  the  dried 
gravy  with  a  spoon,  and  let  it  boil;  skim  off  the  fat 
which. the  boiling  will  send  up,  and  season;  serve  the 
gravy  in  a  tureen,  Avith  apple  sauce  in  another. 


CHAPTER  XXVIL 
POULTRY. 

PREPARATION   OF   POULTRY. 

Chickens,  ducks,  capons  and  turkeys  should  be  killed 
at  least  twenty-four  hours  before  cooking;  the  following 
directions  as  to  cleansing  and  preparing  apply  to  all 
kinds  of  poultry. 

When  well  picked,  singe  by  removing  the  stoye  cover 
and  putting  some  paper  in,  pass  the  bird  over  the  flame, 
taking  care  not  to  blacken  it  or  burn  the  skin. 

Cut  the  neck  off  as  near  the  body  as  possible,  pushing 
the  skin  down  before  you  do  it,  so  as  to  leave  enough 
skin  to  cover  the  place  where  the  neck  has  been  cut; 
cut  off  the  feet  below  the  joint;  with  your  forefinger 
loosen  the  crop,  and  take  it  out  without  breaking  or 
emptying  it.  Next  cut  a  slit  right  under  the  rump 
large  enough  to  run  two  fingers,  if  a  chicken  or  duck; 
your  hand,  if  a  turkey  or  goose,  into  the  body.  Before 
attempting  to  draw  out  the  entrails,  loosen  with  your 
finger  all  the  tiny  strings  that  attach  them  to  the  body, 
be  sure  that  your  fingers  can  pass  between  the  contents  of 
the  stomach  and  the  body  in  62;6r2/ direction  without  ob- 
truction;  then  bend  your  hand  or  fingers  round  the  mass 
and  draw  it  forward,  this  will  bring  the  whole  out  in  a 
ball;  by  no  means  drag  it  by  any  particular  part,  or  you 
will  break  the  entrails  or  gall  bladder,  and  the  whole 

184 


Poultry.  185 

process,  in  the  former  case,  be  an  unclean  one;  in  the  lat- 
ter, the  bird  may  be  spoiled,  for  it  is  impossible  to  wash 
away  the  bitter  of  the  gall  if  broken.  Cut  off  the  vent 
which  will  free  the  main.entrail.  If  properly  managed 
the  bird  will  be  quite  clean  inside,  and  need  only  wiping 
with  a  wet  cloth;  if  not  clean,  pour  lukewarm  water 
through  the  bird,  wipe  inside  and  out  with  a  towel,  but 
do  not  wash  the  outside  unless  necessary  from  acci- 
dental soiling.  With  care,  a  chicken  may  be  emptied 
without  any  uncleanliness;  lay  the  bird  aside. 

The  gall,  a  small  dark  green  bladder,  is  attached  to 
the  liver;  cut  it  off,  leaving  a  bit  of  the  liver  with  it  to 
avoid  breaking,  throw  the  liver  into  cold  water;  by  cut- 
ting the  gizzard  very  carefully  at  the  wide  side  without 
penetrating  the  inner  skin,  it  can  be  peeled  off,  leaving 
the  inside  whole,  thus  avoiding  the  usual  mess  made  by 
inexperienced  hands.  Scald  and  skin  the  feet  (see 
directions,  page  47);  put  liver,  gizzard,  heart,  feet  and 
neck  on  in  a  pint  of  water,  if  chicken  or  duck;  a  quart, 
if  turkey,  with  a  slice  of  onion  and  piece  of  carrot  if 
at  hand,  and  let  them  stew  slowly  down  to  half  the 
quantity,  when  they  will  be  a  stiff  jelly. 

To    TEUSS    AJSTD    STUFF     CHICKEK   OR  TURKEY. — For 

roasting,  twist  the  pinions  under  the  wing  to  the  back, 
push  up  the  legs  till  they  lie  flat  against  the  side  of  the 
bird  and  the  lower  joints  are  even  with  the  rump;  pass 
a  skewer  through  the  centre  of  the  thighs  bringing  it 
out  opposite,  fasten  them  in  that  position  with  a  cord, 
fasten  the  ends  of  the  legs  close  to  the  vent;  press  on  the 
breast  bone  hard  with  the  palm  of  the  hand.  If  the  bird 
is  to  be  stuffed,  loosen  the  skin  of  the  breast  and  put 
the  forcemeat  (see  recipe)  where  the  crop  was,  turn  the 
neck  skin  over  to  the  back  and  sew  it. 


1 86  Practical  Recipes. 

ROAST   CHICKEK. 

Flour  it,  set  it  in  a  dripping-pan  with  a  few  slices  of 
fat  pork  laid  on  the  breast,  or  else  put  a  few  pieces  of 
butter  on  it.  If  you  do  not  use  the  pork,  put  an  ounce 
of  butter  in  a  wooden  spoon,  press  it  to  make  it  stick ; 
to  baste,  rub  the  butter  side  over  the  bird  ;  keep  the 
spoon  in  a  cool  spot  when  not  in  use. 

Allow  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound,  turn  the  chicken 
over  when  the  one  side  is  brown;  when  done  take  it  up. 
If  you  used  pork,  pour  off  the  fat  and  remove  the  pork; 
have  the  gizzard  ready  chopped,  the  liver  mashed  fine, 
and  a  teaspoonf ul  of  flour  mixed  with  it;  pour  the  liquor 
from  the  giblets  to  it,  stir  well,  then  pour  the  whole 
into  the  pan  and  boil  it  on  the  stove. 

Take  the  string  and  skewers  from  the  chicken,  set  it 
in  a  dish,  with  watercress  round  it,  pour  the  gravy  in  a 
tureen  and  serve. 

EOAST   FOWL. 

If  the  fowl  is  over  a  year  old,  wrap  it  in  two  coats  of 
soft  paper  after  it  is  prepared  as  above;  set  it  in  the 
oven,  allowing  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  good  oven ;  when 
it  has  been  in  an  hour,  take  off  the  paper  and  let  it 
brown.  This  method  of  semi-steaming  it  will  make  it 
tender;  make  gravy  and  serve  as  in  last  recipe. 

FOWL  BRAISED. 

Loosely  fill  a  nice  fowl  with  forcemeat ;  put  it  in  a 
stewpan  with  a  pint  of  broth,  two  glasses  of  white  wine, 
an  onion  stuck  with  two  cloves,  a  piece  of  carrot  to 
make  half  a  cup  when  cut  up,  a  blade  of  mace,  half  a 
teaspoon  of  salt,  a  quarter  of  pepper  ;  lay  thin  slices  of 
pork  over  the  fowl  and  cover  the  pot  closely ;  let  it 


Poultry.  187 

cook  very  gently  one  hour  from  the  time  it  begins  to 
boil ;  take  the  fowl  from  the  pot  and  put  it  in  the  oven 
to  brown  ;  strain  the  grayy  into  a  smaller  saucepan  and 
boil  it  down  fast  till  it  is  a  glaze,  or  looks  like  syrup  ; 
glaze  the  fowl  with  this  (see  Glazing,  p.  32)  when  it  is 
brown.  Have  ready  a  can  of  mushrooms  stewed  with 
their  liquor  ten  minutes  in  the  liqaor  from  the  giblets  ; 
thicken  this  with  brown  thickening. 

If  you  have  no  broth  or  stock  to  braise  the  fowl,  you 
must  have  made  it  with  the  giblets  beforehand,  and  use 
only  brown  sauce  to  stew  the  mushrooms  in. 

ROAST   TURKEY. 

Except  in  point  of  time,  follow  the  directions  for 
roasting  chicken.  For  stuffing,  see  directions  for  truss- 
ing and  stuffing  turkey.  On  account  of  the  length  of 
time  it  requires  to  be  in  the  oven,  a  turkey  should  be 
covered  with  well-buttered  paper  for  the  first  half  the 
time.  It  will  take  three  hours  to  cook  a  moderate- 
sized  one  ;  it  must  be  very  frequently  basted  and  turned 
about.  Dish  and  serve  as  chicken,  except  that  it  should 
be  garnished  with  sausages  fried  brown,  or  fried  oysters. 
The  latter  is  the  more  elegant  mode,  especially  if  it  is 
stuffed  with  oysters  (see  Forcemeats). 

BRAISED   TURKEY. 

^'  Turkey  braised,  the  Lord  be  praised,''  is  part  of  an 
old  saying  which  at  all  events  testifies  to  the  estimation 
in  which  our  forefathers  held  this  mode  of  preparing 
the  savory  bird. 

Cover  the  turkey  with  slices  of  pork,  tying  it  round 
with  cord  to  keep  it  in  shape.  Put  four  slices  of  pork 
in  the  pot  or  braising  pan  ;  put  the  turkey  stuffed  on 


1 88  Practical  Recipes. 

these  ;  lay  the  giblets  round  it,  with  four  onions,  three 
cloves,  three  carrots  cut  small,  a  parsnip,  two  bay 
leaves,  a  bouquet  of  herbs  (see  Bouquet),  a  teaspoonf  ul 
of  salt,  and  half  of  pepper,  and  almost  cover  this  with 
any  good  stock  you  may  have.  Cover  tightly  and  allow 
to  simmer  very  gently  from  four  to  six  hours,  according 
to  the  size  of  the  bird.  Braised  turkey  is  served  hot  or 
cold ;  if  it  is  to  be  eaten  hot  let  it  be  in  the  oven  to 
brown,  unless  you  have  cooked  it  in  a  regular  braising- 
pan  which  will  hold  hot  coals  on  the  lid,  when  the  oven 
will  be  unnecessary  ;  remove  the  vegetables,  boil  the 
gravy  down  rapidly,  skimming  it  to  free  it  from  fat. 
Garnish  either  with  carrot  and  turnip  cut  into  fancy 
forms  and  boiled  separately,  or  with  small  sausages  fried. 
Strain  part  of  the  gravy,  stir  in  a  spoonful  of  brown 
thickening,  and  pour  it  over  the  bird. 

If  it  is  to  be  served  cold,  let  it  remain  in  the  gravy  in 
which  it  was  braised  for  an  hour  after  it  leaves  the  fire  ; 
then  strain  the  liquor ;  boil  down  to  two-thirds  its  orig- 
inal quantity,  so  that  when  cold  it  will  form  a  hard 
jelly  ;  free  it  from  fat  ;  clear  with  white  of  Qgg  (see  di- 
rections for  clearing  stock)  ;  brush  two  coats  of  this 
over  the  turkey  and  let  the  rest  get  cold  ;  when  stiff 
cut  it  into  stars  or  strips,  chopping  the  trimmings  of 
it  and  use  to  garnish  the  dish. 

BOILED   TUKKEY. 

Prepare  a  turkey  as  directed.  In  trussing  turkey 
for  boiling,  the  legs  are  pushed  up,  a  slit  cut  in  each 
side,  and  the  legs  drawn  into  the  body ;  it  is  correct  to 
stuff  the  breast  for  roasting,  but  for  boiling  the  inside 
may  be  filled  with  oyster  forcemeat  (see  recipe)  or  with 
chestnuts  ;  bind  it  into  shape  with  tape,  flour  it,  put  it 


Poultry,  189 

into  an  oyal  pot  with  just  warm  water  enough  to  cover 
it ;  put  in  a  dessert-spoonful  of  salt,  a  carrot,  an  onion, 
and  four  cloves,  and  a  dozen  pepper-corns,  a  few  sticks 
of  celery,  and  a  bouquet  of  herbs  ;  bring  it  to  a  boil; 
simmer  a  turkey  of  ten  pounds  very  gently  for  two 
hours  after  it  reaches  the  boiling  point,  skim  off  every 
bit  of  scum  as  it  rises  or  it  will  discolor  the  bird.  Take 
it  up,  drain  it  a  moment,  make  some  thick  white  sauce 
or  bechamel  (see  recipe)  with  some  of  the  water  it  was 
boiled  in,  pour  it  over  the  turkey  to  mask  it.  Send  to 
table  with  it  either  oyster  sauce,  celery  sauce,  or  Hol- 
landaise,  or  even  good  parsley  sauce.  Garnish  with 
forcemeat  balls,  or  little  rolls  of  crisp  bacon,  or  lemon 
and  parsley. 

Boiled  Chicke:^"  is  cooked  in  the  same  way,  but 
allowing  half  the  time  or  less  if  small,  and  half  the  in- 
gredients in  the  water. 

ROAST   DUCK   OR   GOOSE. 

Clean  a  duck  as  directed  for  fowls;  twist  the  pinions 
round  on  the  back;  it  is  correct  English  fashion  to  leave 
the  feet  on  ;  scald  them,  and  twist  them  up  against  the 
back.  If  you  prefer  them  off,  however,  break  the  bone 
below  the  joint,  and  cut  them  off.  Stuff  the  body  of 
the  duck  with  forcemeat  (see  forcemeat  for  ducks),  sew 
up  the  slit  and  press  the  legs  close  to  the  side  of  the 
bird,  securing  them  with  a  skewer  and  cord. 

Many  people  like  duck  underdone;  when  this  is  so, 
half  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven  will  cook  a  quite  young  one; 
the  usual  time  for  a  duck  weighing  four  pounds  is  one 
hour.  Make  brown  gravy  in  the  dripping-pan  with  the 
stock  from  the  giblets,  chopping  the  liver  and  gizzard, 
and  skimming  off  all  grease,  let  this  boil  down  until 


I  go  Practical  Recipes, 

rich  and  brown.    Send  hot  apple  sauce  to  table  with  the 
duck. 

A  goose  is  cooked  and  trussed  exactly  as  duck,  except- 
ing that  in  no  case  should  the  feet  of  a  goose  be  left  on. 
The  time  for  a  young  goose  is  one  hour  and  a  half;  it 
should  be  frequently  basted,  and  served  very  brown.  If 
the  skin  is  very  fat  and  oily,  some  prefer  to  parboil  the 
bird  half  an  hour  in  salt  and  water;  then  flour  it,  and 
put  it  in  a  very  hot  oven,  or  it  will  not -brown;  once  it 
begins  to  color,  the  heat  maybe  a  little  slackened;  serve 
with  brown  giblet  sauce  and  apple  sauce  in  separate 
tureens. 

ROAST   CAP02^. 

Follow  the  directions  for  roast  turkey.  If  wanted  for 
a  company  dinner,  it  may  be  stuffed  with  chestnut  force- 
meat (see  recipe),  and  served  on  a  bed  of   watercresses. 


CHAPTER  XXVIIL 
GAME. 

As  much  as  the  French  excel  the  English  in  soups 
and  all  made  dishes,  so  do  the  latter  excel  them  in  roasts 
and  game. 

The  English  rule  for  game  is  to  leave  the  natural 
flavor  unimpaired  ;  therefore  they  use  no  forcemeat,  no 
flavored  sauces,  no  larding,  butter  only  is  used  to  baste, 
and  that  liberally,  and  bread  sauce  which  has  little 
flavor  of  its  own,  but  is  said  to  bring  out  that  of  game, 
is  served  with  it. 

Therefore  in  the  following  recipes  where  I  have  pre- 
scribed pork,  I  am  following  French  or  American  taste; 
but  it  may  always  be  replaced  by  butter,  /  think,  to  ad- 
vantage. 

KOAST   GROUSE,    PRAIRIE   HEi^,    OR   PARTRIDGE. 

Clean  as  directed  for  poultry  in  general.  If  you  wish 
to  serve  these  birds  English  fashion,  instead  of  cut- 
ting the  head  off,  make  a  slit  to  take  out  the  crop,  and 
twist  the  head  round  and  bring  it  under  the  wing;  rub 
the  breast  and  legs  with  lemon,  then  mix  a  teaspoonf  ul  of 
salt,  a  quarter  one  of  white  pepper,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  together,  put  them  inside  the  bird;  take  a  slice 
of  fat  pork,  broad  and  long,  and  lay  it  over  the  breast 
and  legs;  truss  the  bird  into  good  shape  with  skewers 
and  twine,  and  roll  it  in  buttered  paper.    Put  in  a  drip- 

191 


ig2  Practical  Recipes, 

ping-pan  in  a  quick  OYen,  leave  it  half  an  hour;  then 
take  off  the  paper,  dredge  the  bird  with  flour  lightly, 
and  baste  thoroughly,  put  it  in  a  part  of  the  oven  where 
it  will  brown  quickly.  When  a  good  color  take  it  up, 
remove  strings  and  skewers,  but  not  the  slices  of  pork; 
put  a  little  stock  or  boiling  water  in  the  dripping-pan 
stirring  well,  skim  off  the  grease,  then  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  half  an  orange,  add  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and 
serve  with  bread  sauce. 

BKOILED   PRAIRIE    HEK,    OR   PARTRIDGE. 

Clean  and  prepare  as  directed.  Split  the  back  of  the 
bird,  butter  it  all  over,  place  it  on  a  hot  gridiron  and 
turn  several  times  to  prevent  burning.  It  will  take,  on 
a  good  fire,  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  according  to  size; 
just  before  it  is  done,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
While  the  bird  is  cooking,  chop  a  teaspoonful  of  pars- 
ley very  fine,  mix  it  with  the  juice  of  a  quarter  lemon 
and  a  tablespoonf ul  of  butter.  This  quantity  is  for  each 
bird,  put  this  maitre  d'^hotel  hutter,  as  it  is  called,  on  a 
very  hot  dish,  and  lay  the  bird  first  on  paper  to  take 
any  dark  grease  there  may  be,  and  than  lay  it  on  the 
dish  ;  garnish  with  parsley. 

AKOTHER   WAY    (BLOT), 

And  preferred  by  me,  is  as  follows  :  Split  each  bird  in 
two  lengthwise  pieces;  put  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in 
a  stewpan,  set  it  on  a  good  fire,  when  hot  lay  the  birds 
in ;  leave  them  till  about  half  cooked,  turning  them 
three  or  four  times  ;  then  take  them  off,  put  them  on  a 
gridiron,  cook  fifteen  minutes  and  serve  with  the  follow- 
ing sauce:  Put  with  the  butter  in  the  stewpan  in  which 
were  the  birds,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  one  of 


Game,  1 93 

chopped  mushrooms,  salt  and  pepper  ;  sprinkle  in,  and 
stir  at  same  time,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  a  gill  of  white 
wine,  and  one  of  broth,  boil  till  slightly  thick;  serve  the 
birds  on  it,  or  they  may  be  served  with  mayonnaise  sauce. 

SALMI   OF   GAME. 

See  salmi  of  duck,  and  follow  directions. 

ROAST   QUAILS. 

These,  being  birds  of  white  flesh,  are  unlike  most 
game,  which  is  better  kept  long  after  killing,  and  should 
be  cooked  very  fresh.  Clean  the  birds  ;  roll  each  in  a 
thin  slice  of  salt  pork,  tying  it  on  with  cord;  lay  the 
birds  on  a  dripping-pan,  and  baste  often;  when  done, 
serve  on  slices  of  toasted  or  fried  bread,  with  the  crust 
cut  off. 

BROILED    QUAILS. 

Cook  exactly  the  same  as  partridge,  only  of  course 
they  require  much  less  time  to  cook,  ten  minutes  usu- 
ally suflSces  ;  serve  on  toast,  with  watercresses  round  the 
dish. 

SMALL   BIRDS,    SKIPE,    WOODCOCK,    ETC. 

Leave  on  the  head  and  neck,  carefully  picked  free  of 
feathers  ;  twist  the  head,  and  use  the  beaks  of  snipe  and 
woodcock  as  a  skewer  to  secure  the  legs,  running  it 
through  the  body ;  wrap  each  one  in  bacon,  fastened 
with  wooden  toothpicks,  and  put  them  in  a  hot  oven. 
Have  as  many  slices  of  bread,  cut  round,  and  fried 
brown  in  butter  as  you  have  birds  ;  when  done  (they 
will  not  take  more  than  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes  in  a 
hot  oven),  place  each  on  a  slice  of  bread,  and  serve  very 
hot. 


194  Practical  Recipes, 

A    QUICK   WAY   TO    COOK   SMALL   BIRDS. 

Prepare  them  as  usual ;  dip  each  bird  in  flour  and 
shake  them  ;  sprinkle  with  salt.  Have  a  kettle  with 
smoking  lard  ;  try  it  with  a  piece  of  bread,  if  it  colors 
brown  in  one-half  minute  it  is  ready,  if  not  wait  and 
try  again.  When  it  is  hot  enough  drop  the  birds  in  ; 
they  will  cool  the  lard,  therefore  don't  put  in  more  than 
six  at  a  time  ;  three  minutes  will  cook  them  ;  try  the 
lard  before  putting  in  more.  Have  ready  as  many 
rounds  of  bread  as  you  have  birds,  soaked  in  ^gg  and 
milk — two  eggs  to  half  a  pint ;  drain  each  piece  and 
drop  them  into  the  hot  fat ;  take  them  up  when  pale 
brown  and  lay  a  bird  on  each. 

If  the  fire  is  good  and  the  fat  deep  enough  (there 
should  be  two  to  three  pounds  in  the  kettle),  a  dozen 
birds  and  a  dozen  rounds  of  bread  will  take  less  than 
twenty  minutes,  and  make  a  most  delicious  dish. 

Epicures  prefer  that  woodcock  and  snipe  should  not 
be  drawn,  but  the  entrails — otherwise  the  ^^ trail" — be 
caught  on  toast  laid  under  them  in  cooking. 

KOAST  YE:N"iso]sr. 

Trim  neatly  a  well-hung  haunch  of  venison,  scraping 
off  all  dark  skin  and  dried  surface  ;  wipe  thoroughly, 
and  if  it  is  getting  ^^high ''  let  the  cloths  be  dipped  in 
vinegar  ;  cover  the  haunch  with  a  thick  sheet  of  white 
cartridge  paper  well  buttered  ;  tie  this  securely  over. 
Baste  the  venison  to  prevent  the  jiaper  from  burning ; 
half  an  hour  before  the  meat  is  done  remove  the  paper, 
sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  the  meat,  dredge  it  with  flour, 
and  baste  liberally  with  butter  stuck  in  a  spoon.  Pour 
the  fat  from  the  dripping-pan,  keeping  back  any  brown 
gravy  there  may  be  ;  pour  a  cup  of  boiling  water  to  this, 


Game,  1 95 

and  boil  it  down  adding  only  salt ;  serve  the  gravy  in  a 
tureen;  put  a  frill  of  white  paper  round  the  knuckle^ 
and  serve  very  hot.  Allow  fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound. 
Eed-currant  jelly  and  venison  sauce  should  be  served 
with  venison.  Venison  sauce  is  equal  parts  of  mutton 
broth,  made  very  strong,  and  port  wine,  with  a  little 
cayenne  pepper.  Many  simply  serve  currant  jelly  made 
hot. 

Some  roast  the  haunch  in  a  flour-and- water  paste 
until  nearly  done,  when  it  is  removed  and  the  meat 
browned. 

YENISON"   CUTLETS   OR   STEAKS. 

Cut  cutlets  or  steaks  an  inch  thick,  trim  neatly,  but 
take  away  no  fat ;  pepper  and  salt  them  ;  broil  them 
on  a  hot  gridiron  over  a  clear,  gentle  fire  ;  turn  often, 
they  will  take  twenty  minutes  ;  send  stewed  mushrooms 
and  baked  potatoes  to  table  with  them  ;  or,  if  you  have 
no  mushrooms,  make  some  currant  jelly  hot,  and  send 
it  as  sauce. 


CHAPTER  XXIX. 
SALADS. 

Although  there  are  many  salads  of  different  names, 
there  are  but  two  dressings  in  ordinary  use  :  the  simple 
French  dressing,  suitable  for  any  salad  where  there  is 
no  meat  used,  and  mayonnaise.  There  are  many  others, 
of  course,  several  varieties  of  English  dressing  all  more 
or  less  bad — American  dressings  no  better. 

The  French  excel  in  salads,  and  it  is  rare,  indeed,  at 
a  French  table  to  eat  one  poorly  mixed.  Yet  their 
method  is  very  simple,  so  simple,  indeed,  that  many 
think  it  cannot  matter  in  mixing  oil  and  vinegar  whether 
one  or  other  goes  first,  provided  the  quantities  are  right ; 
but  this  is  the  secret,  the  oil  must  ie  first.  The  reason 
is  this  :  if  the  leaves  are  wet  first  with  the  vinegar,  the 
oil  will  not  adhere  and  will  lay  at  the  bottom  of  the 
bowl,  and  a  sharp,  crude  salad  will  be  the  result.  This 
shows,  too,  why  the  lettuce  must  always  be  well  dried 
before  being  put  in  the  bowl. 

LETTUCE   SALAD. 

This  is  best  prepared  on  the  table,  as  it  should  be 
eaten  soon  after  it  is  made. 

The  lettuce  should  be  carefully  washed  and  dried. 
Hold  over  the  bowl  a  salad-spoon,  into  which  put  a 
saltspoonf  ul  of  salt  and  a  quarter  one  of  white  pepper ; 

196 


Salads,  1 9  7 

then  fill  the  salad-spoon  with  oil ;  pour  this  over  the 
lettuce,  and  toss  the  leaves  over  and  over  till  they 
shine  ;  then  put  two  more  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  toss  it 
again ;  then  put  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar ;  mix 
lightly,  and  the  salad  is  made.  These  are  average  pro- 
portions ;  many  like  four  parts  oil  to  one  of  vinegar. 

ANCHOVY   SALAD. 

Wash  six  anchovies  ;  let  them  lie  in  water  an  hour  ; 
remove  the  bones,  also  heads,  fins  and  tails  ;  put  them 
on  a  dish  with  two  lettuces,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  and  a  sliced  lemon  ;  pour  over  them  either  a 
simple  French  dressing  or  a  mayonnaise  sauce  (see 
recipe). 

CARDINAL   SALAD. 

Take  two  or  three  heads  of  very  white  celery,  using 
only  the  best  part ;  cut  them  of  even  lengths ;  place 
them  on  a  flat  dish,  arranging  them  like  a  bundle  of 
asparagus,  taking  care  that  some  of  the  delicate  leaves 
are  at  each  end  ;  color  some  thick  mayonnaise  with 
lobster  coral  pounded,  or  with  red  beetroot  boiled 
tender  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve — using  enough  of 
either  to  make  the  same  a  bright  red  ;  pour  it  in  spoon- 
fuls over  the  middle  of  the  celery  until  it  is  entirely 
masked,  leaving  the  pale  green  ends  untouched  by  the 
sauce.     Put  it  on  the  ice  till  needed  for  use. 

ASPARAGUS   SALAD. 

Take  cold  asparagus  that  has  been  boiled  twenty 
minutes — that  is  till  tender,  but  not  in  a  mush  ;  color 
some  mayonnaise,  green,  either  with  spinach  (see  Spin- 
ach Coloring)  or  juice  of  bruised  parsley.     Arrange  the 


198  Practical  Recipes, 

asparagus  neatly  in  a  pile  on  a  dish,  all  the  heads  one 
way  ;  put  it  on  the  ice  till  very  cold  ;  then  pour  over  it 
the  green  mayonnaise  (which  must  not  be  thin  enough 
to  run  off),  leaving  the  asparagus  points,  however,  un- 
touched.    This  is  an  excellent  breakfast  salad. 

CHICKEI^   SALAD,    (sOYER's). 

If  you  can  make  a  good  mayonnaise,  chicken  salad  is 
very  easy  to  make,  yet  seldom  well  made.  Cut  up  the 
chickens  quite  small,  make  a  plain  French  dressing 
(three  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  to  one  of  vinegar,  salt  and 
pepper)^  pour  it  over  the  chicken,  and  leave  it  an  hour; 
take  as  much  celery  cut  up  small  as  you  have  chicken, 
and  toss  both  together,  taking  care  to  remember  that 
the  salad  ought  to  be  seasoned  sufficiently  before  the 
mayonnaise  is  put  on;  then  make  a  mound  as  smooth  as 
possible  and  cover  it  with  mayonnaise  which  has  been 
on  ice  till  very  firrn;  dip  a  knife  in  water  to  smooth  it. 
Ornament  either  with  celery  tops  alone  or  with  capers, 
stoned  olives,  gherkins  or  hard  ^gg. 

If  lettuce  is  used  instead  of  celery  treat  the  chicken 
as  before,  but  lay  the  lettuce  leaves  round  the  dish. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Take  a  live  hen  lobster,  plunge  its  head  downwards  in 
boiling  water;  this  kills  it  instantly;  be  sure  the  water  is 
salt  enough;  two  large  tablespoonfuls  to  the  gallon  of 
water  is  not  too  much;  boil  it  slowly  twenty-five  minutes  if 
medium  size,  if  large,  half  an  hour  ;  if  over  boiled,  the 
lobster  will  be  tough.  Put  it  into  cold  water  when  done 
for  one  minute,  then  break  the  shell  and  crack  the 
claws.  Take  away  the  sand  bag  from  the  head,  the 
en  trail  that  runs  through  the  tail  and  the  spongy  parts 


Salads,  IQQ 

that  lie  just  under  the  shell.  Save  the  coral,  any  eggs 
there  may  be  under  the  tail,  the  white  fat  that  adheres  to 
the  shell,  and  the  green  fat  in  the  body.  Cut  the  lobster 
into  dice,  or  tear  it  with  two  forks  ;  pour  upon  it  just 
enough  French  dressing  to  moisten  and  season  it,  or 
mayonnaise  may  be  used.  This  may  be  done  some  time 
before  the  salad  is  eaten,  but  the  putting  together  must 
be  done  the  last  thing;  this  is  true  of  all  salads;  lay 
crisp  white  lettuce  leaves  or  celery  in  the  dish;  lay  on 
them  the  lobster,  and  the  green  and  white  fat;  pour  over 
it  a  mayonnaise;  garnish  with  olives  and  the  lobster  claws; 
separate  the  eggs  and  sprinkle  them  over  the  salad  dress- 
ing, or  use  the  coral  chopped  if  there  are  no  eggs. 

Veal  or  lean  roast  pork  when  very  tender  and  well 
cooked,  dressed  precisely  in  the  same  way  as  chicken 
salad,  are  exceedingly  good,  although  they  should  never 
be  used  as  a  substitute  for  chicken  in  so-called  ^^chicken 
salad."  On  their  own  merits  they  would  meet  approval, 
while  under  a  false  name  they  may  be  scorned. 

POTATO    SALAD. 

Boil  the  potatoes  in  their  shins  till  tender  but  not 
broken  ;  peal  and  slice  them  while  warm  ;  let  them  get 
cold  but  not  ice  cold  ;  chop  a  teaspoonful  of  onion  or 
olives  very  fine;  throw  it  over  them  and  pour  over 
them  French  dressing  enough  to  moisten  them  well. 

Potatoes  boiled  in  their  skins  are  less  likely  to  break 
than  when  peeled  beforehand. 

This  is  the  usual  way  of  making  potato  salad;  but  I 
prefer  it  made  in  the  following  manner: 

POTATO   MAYON^^AISE. 

Boil  potatoes  in  their  skins,  peel  and  slice  them  as 


200  Practical  Recipes. 

above.  Make  mayonnaise  sauce,  chop  a  small  onion 
yery  fine  indeed,  mix  it  with  the  mayonnaise,  and  dress 
the  potatoes  with  it;  garnish  with  tufts  of  parsley. 

BKEAKFAST   SALAD,    (mURREY). 

Scald  two  ripe  tomatoes,  take  off  the  skin,  put  them 
into  cold  water  or  on  ice;  drain  and  either  slice  them,  or 
cut  them  into  sections  as  you  would  divide  an  orange; 
peel  and  slice  very  thin  one  cucumber;  put  in  a  salad 
bowl  a  few  leaves  of  Eomaine  lettuce,  add  the  tomatoes 
and  cucumber,  one  spring  onion  cut  up,  and,  if  possible, 
a  few  tarragon-leaves;  pour  over  the  salad  a  plain  salad 
dressing, 

TOMATO   SALAD. 

Scald  and  skin  fine  ripe  tomatoes ;  cut  them 
either  in  slices  or  in  sections  parallel  to  the  core,  leaving 
the  hard  core  out;  set  them  on  the  ice  till  very  cold; 
pour  over  them  either  a  mayonnaise  or  a  French  dressing. 

TOMATO   SALAD,    NO.    2. 

Scald  some  tomatoes,  choosing  round  ones;  skin  them; 
let  them  get  firm  on  ice;  wash  some  fresh  lettuce;  put 
two  or  three  young  leaves  in  a  saucer,  using  as  many 
saucers  as  there  are  persons  at  table.  Slice  each  toma- 
to neatly  and  put  the  slices  so  that  the  tomato  appears 
uncut.  Set  one  on  each  saucer  in  the  middle  of  the 
lettuce  leaves;  put  on  each  a  dessert-spoonful  of  mayon- 
naise sauce. 


CHAPTER    XXX. 

BOILED  PUDDINGS  OF  ALL  KINDS. 

.  They  must  be  put  in  boiling  water  and  brought  back 
to  the  boiling  point  as  quiclcly  as  possible  ;  not  allowed 
to  boil  again,  just  whenever  is  most  conyenient;  steep- 
ing a  pudding  in  non-boiling  water  ruins  it.  Then  it 
must  boil  every  minute  oi  the  time  directed,  and  should 
the  water  boil  away  too  much,  be  replenished  from  a 
kettle  of  lolling  water.  This  will  hardly  be  necessary, 
however,  if  the  jiudding  was  well  covered  with  water  at 
first,  except  in  the  case  of  those  requiring  to  boil  more 
than  two  hours,  such  as  Christmas  puddings,  etc. 

Ei^GLISH   APPLE,    OR    OTHER    FRUIT    PUDDI]S"G 

The  English  use  a  beef-suet  crust  where  Americans 
use  a  biscuit  crust,  and  as  it  is  both  more  wholesome 
and  more  nutritious,  I  give  the  recipe  hoping  that  those 
who  shudder  at  the  idea  of  suet  pastry  will  give  it  a 
trial.     It  is  no  more  trouble  to  make  than  biscuit  dough. 

Get  heef  kidney  suet ;  take  all  the  skin  from  half  a 
pound  of  It ;  chop  it  very  fine  ;  put  in  a  small  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt ;  mix  it  with  a  scant  pound  of  flour  ;  make  a 
hole  in  the  centre  and  put  in  a  small  cup  of  water ;  mix 
it  as  quickly  and  as  lightly  as  you  would  biscuit ;  add 
more  water,  if  needed,  to  make  it  a  firm  but  not  hard 

201 


202  Practical  Recipes. 

paste  ;  roll  out  on  a  floured  board  once  to  the  thickness 
of  half  an  inch  ;  butter  a  quart  bowl  well ;  line  it  with 
this  paste,  pressing  it  in  every  part  lightly  ;  leave  it  an 
inch  above  the  bowl ;  cut  off  what  remains  over  the  inch 
margin  ;  roll  it  out  for  the  cover ;  then  fill  the  bowl 
with  apples  peeled  and  cut  in  slices  ;  heap  it  up  high  ; 
pour  over  them  as  much  sugar  as  you  think  your  apples 
will  need,  and  grate  the  rind  of  a  lemon  or  some  nut- 
meg over  them  ;  pour  in  half  a  cup  of  water ;  wet  the 
edge  of  the  paste,  put  on  the  cover,  pinch  the  edges 
together;  see  that  the  water  cannot  get  out ;  then  flour 
a  cloth  ;  cover  the  top  of  the  pudding  with  it ;  pass  a 
string  round  the  bowl  outside  the  cloth  half-way  down 
(so  that  the  flare  of  the  bowl  will  prevent  the  string  if 
well  tied  from  slipping  up)  ;  tie  the  four  corners  of  the 
pudding  cloth  over  the  top  of  the  bowl,  so  that  you  can 
lift  the  padding  by  it ;  then  put  it  into  a  pot  of  fast- 
boiling  water — which  must  be  kept  boiling,  and  if  it 
diminishes  much,  replenish  from  another  kettle  kept 
boiling.     Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Easpberey  Pudding  is  made  in  the  same  way,  using 
three  parts  of  raspberries  and  one  of  currants  in  place 
of  the  apples. 

Cherry  Pudding,  with  the  same  proportion  of  cur- 
rants, is  a  delicious  pudding. 

ERUIT   BATTER   PUDDING. 

Make  a  batter  with  four  eggs,  and  a  pint  of  flour 
and  a  pinch  of  salt,  using  as  much  milk  as  will  make 
a  rather  thick  batter ;  stir  in  as  many  raspberries  or 
cherries  as  you  can,  with  half  a  cupful  of  sugar.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce  or  a  sauce  of  the  fruit  (see  Fruit 
Sauce). 


Puddings,  2O3 

ALBEKT    PUDDIJS'G. 

Beat  six  ounces  of  butter  to  a  cream  ;  then  gradually 
add  to  it  five  well-beaten  eggs  and  half  a  pound  of  flour, 
six  ounces  of  loaf-sugar,  the  rind  of  a  lemon  grated  ;  add 
half  a  pound  of  stoned  raisins  ;  butter  a  bowl  or  mould 
thickly,  ornament  it  with  stars  and  diamonds  of  cit- 
ron and  figs  ;  pour  the  mixture  in  a  bowl  which  it 
must  fill  within  half  an  inch  ;  cover  with  a  cloth  as 
directed  for  apple  pudding.  Boil  or  steam  it  at  least 
three  hours. 

LEMOK   PUDDIKG. 

Twelve  ounces  of  bread-crumbs,  six  ounces  of  finely- 
chopped  beef  suet,  four  ounces  of  flour,  four  ounces  of 
sugar,  the  grated  peel  and  juice  of  two  small  lemons, 
four  eggs  ;  mix  all  together,  and  then  add  milk  enough 
to  make  a  thick  batter.  Boil  in  a  buttered  bowl  or 
mould  three  hours  and  a  half.  If  a  bowl  is  used,  cover 
with  a  floured  cloth  and  tie  up  as  directed  for  apple 
pudding.  Sift  sugar  over  it  when  done.  Serve  with 
lemon  or  wine  sauce. 

POLKA   PUDDIi^G. 

Boil  one  quart  of  milk  ;  mix  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  pour  the  boiling 
milk  on  to  it,  stirring  all  the  time  ;  let  it  thicken  over 
the  fire  ;  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rose  or  orange- 
flower  water  (/  find  this  rather  too  much,  begin  with 
one,  then  taste).  Stir  in,  either  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
rich  cream  or  three  ounces  of  butter  ;  blanch  one  ounce 
of  bitter  almonds,  two  of  sweet,  and  beat  them  up 
quite  fine,  using  white  of  one  ^gg  to  prevent  oiling ; 
beat  the  yolk  with  three  other  whole  eggs  well,  and  add 


204  Practical  Recipes, 

them  to  the  mixture ;  stir  all  oyer  the  fire  till  thick 
and  smooth  ;  put  in  a  mould  and  ice  it.  Serve  with 
polka  sauce  (see  recipe).  Sauce  boiling  Jioty  pudding 
cold,  on  hot  plates. 

QUEEi^   MAB    PUDDIN^G. 

Steep  six  bitter  almonds  bruised,  and  the  peel  of 
a  lemon  (pared  veiy  thin)  in  a  pint  of  milk  on  the 
stove,  at  almost  boiling  point,  until  the  flavor  is  well 
drawn  out ;  add  one  ounce  of  gelatine  and  a  pinch  of 
salt  ;  stir  till  gelatine  is  dissolved  ;  strain  and  return  to 
the  saucepan  ;  add  half  a  pint  of  thick  cream  and  five 
ounces  of  sugar  ;  let  it  all  just  boil ;  stir  in  quickly  the 
yolks  of  six  eggs  well  beaten  ;  set  the  saucepan  in  boil- 
ing water  and  stir  till  thick,  but  be  careful  not  to  let 
the  eggs  curdle  ;  pour  it  out  and  stir  till  nearly  cold; 
then  mix  two  and  a  half  ounces  of  candied  cherries,  and 
two  ounces  of  citron  cut  small ;  or  three  ounces  of  pre- 
served ginger,  and  one  ounce  of  pistache  nuts  blanched; 
pour  the  pudding  into  an  oiled  mould  and  pack  in  ice. 
If  ginger  is  used,  serve  the  ginger  syrup  as  a  sauce  ;  if 
cherries,  use  cherry  syrup  or  currant  jelly  mixed  with 
syrup  for  sauce ;  boil  together  half  a  cup  of  water  and 
a  cup  of  sugar  to  make  the  syrup. 

TROY   PUDDING. 

This  is  an  excellent  plain  pudding ;  one  cup  of 
chopped  and  seeded  raisins,  one  cup  of  suet  finely 
chopped,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  milk,  three 
eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda;  spice 
to  taste,  saltspoonful  of  salt ;  mix  all  the  dry  ingredi- 
ents first;  then  put  molasses,  the  eggs  well  beaten,  and 


Puddings,  205 

the  milk  ;  boil  three  hours  in  a  buttered  bowl.     Serve 
with  good  wine  or  lemon  sauce. 

ENGLISH    CHEISTMAS    PUDDIISTGS 

There  are  many  good  recipes  differing  very  little  from 
ieach  other,  any  one  of  which  would  make  as  good  a 
pudding  as  usually  met  with  in  ^^old  England/' but  it 
requires  more  than  a  good  recipe  to  turn  out  the  pudding 
as  it  is  eaten  there;  the  best  recipe  is  more  often  than  not 
spoiled  in  the  cooking.  I  have  known  them  to  be 
three-parts  boiled  (as  is  the  usual  way)  and  given  to 
friends,  and  yet  in  the  final  two  hours'  boiling  be 
spoiled. 

In  the  tying  up  and  boiling  lies  the  art  of  making  any 
good  boiled  pudding;  bear  in  mind  the  bowl  or  pudding 
boiler  must  \>efull,  the  cloth  tied  firmly  over  the  bowl 
(it  will  always  ^^  give  "  enough  for  the  swelling  of  the 
pudding),  the  water  be  fast  boiling,  and  when  the  pud- 
ding is  put  in,  be  quickly  brought  to  the  boil  again,  and 
kept  boiling  every  minute  of  the  time  prescribed,  re- 
plenishing from  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  kept  for  that 
purpose.  If  the  pudding  ceases  to  boil  you  will  find  it 
sticky. 

The  orthodox  Christmas  pudding  is  always  an  equal 
quantity  of  suet,  fruit  and  eggs  ;  the  variations  are 
in  the  proportions  of  ingredients  added  for  flavoring, 
and  in  the  flour  some  families  (and  it  is  usually  a  family 
recipe  handed  down  for  generations),  use  the  same  pro- 
portion of  flour  as  of  each  kind  of  fruit,  others  use  half 
flour  and  half  bread-crumbs,  others  again  use  all  bread- 
crumbs and  no  flour.  I  give  three  recipes,  all  excellent, 
provided  they  are  properly  boiled. 


2o6  Practical  Recipes. 

CHRISTMAS   PUDDIN'G,    i^O.    1. 

One  pound  of  currants  thorouglily  cleaned,  one  pound 
of  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped  a  little,  one  pound  of 
suet  finely  chopped,  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  four 
ounces  of  blanched  almonds  split,  four  ounces  of  citron, 
four  of  candied  lemon  peel,  four  of  candied  orange  peel, 
one  pound  of  flour  and  eight  eggs,  two  glasses  of 
brandy,  and  milk  to  make  all  into  a  very  thick  batter 
Just  so  that  you  can  stir  it.  A  teaspoonful  of  salt 
scant,  and  a  small  nutmeg  grated,  a  teaspoonful  of  gin- 
ger, a  scant  one  of  cinnamon  and  half  one  of  cloves,  all 
ground. 

CHRISTMAS    PUDDIKG,    2^0.    2    (yERY   RICH). 

This  is  a  yery  delicious  pudding,  richer  than  the 
other. 

One  pound  of  Muscatel  raisins  stoned,  half  pound  of 
Sultana  raisins,  half  a  pound  of  currants,  half  a  pound  of 
mixed  candied  peels,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  three-quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  bread-crumbs,  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  beef  suet  chopped  very  fine,  ten  eggs,  a  quar- 
ter an  ounce  of  litter  almonds  pounded,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  four  ounces  brown  sugar,  a  gill  of  brandy 
and  one  of  sherry. 

N.  B. — In  both  these  puddings  the  spices  may  be  in- 
creased or  lessened,  the  candied  peels  varied  or  part 
omitted.  These  are  matters  of  taste,  and  do  not  affect 
the  texture  or  character  of  the  j^udding. 

TO   MIX   PLUM   PUDDING. 

Throw  each  ingredient  as  you  prepare  it  into  a  pan  ; 
sprinkle  the  salt  over  all,  then   add   the  beaten  eggs. 


Puddings,  207 

the  brandy,  and  when  milk  is  used,  put  that  last,  as 
it  is  only  when  the  eggs  and  brandy  are  in  you  can  tell 
how  much  you  need.  The  mixture  must  be  so  stifE 
as  to  stir  with  difficulty.  In  the  last  recipe  the  bitter 
almonds  must  be  crumbled  and  added  by  degrees  with 
great  care. 

The  quantities  given  make  two  quart  puddings,  or 
may  be  boiled  in  one. 

If  boiled  in  two,  use  quart  bowls  ;  butter  them  well, 
fill  them,  put  a  buttered  paper  over  the  top,  scald  a 
pudding  cloth,  flour  it,  tie  it  over  (see  general  direc- 
tions for  puddings),  and  boil  each  pudding  six  hours; 
and  two  hours  on  the  day  used.  If  one  large  pudding 
is  made,  boil  eight  hours,  and  two  on  the  day  used. 

These  puddings  may  also  be  boiled  in  cloths  (many 
consider  them  lighter  so  boiled).  Scald  and  flour  a 
square  of  muslin  for  each;  lay  it  in  a  large  bowl;  pour 
the  pudding  mixture  in,  tie  it  up  closely  as  you  would 
dumplings,  and  boil  six  hours  for  a  quart  pudding,  and 
an  hour  and  half  the  day  used. 


CHAPTEE  XXXL 

PIES  AND  TAETS. 

In  making  either  the  American  pie,  or  the  English 
tart,  remember  to  heap  the  fruit  in  the  centre,  leaving 
room  for  a  groove  round  the  edge.  Before  the  cover  is 
put  on  wet  the  margin,  but  do  not  press  the  edges  to- 
gether, all  the  pressure  should  come  between  the  fruit 
and  the  edge — lay  your  forefinger  round,  pressing  closely 
so  that  upper  and  under  paste  may  adhere  there,  but 
leave  the  edges  untouched;  cut  four  slits  in  the  groove 
you  have  made;  see  that  they  are  open  enough  for  the 
syrup  to  boil  into  the  groove  instead  of  from  the  edges 
and  out  in  the  oven;  as  the  pie  cools  the  syrup  runs 
back  from  the  groove  to  the  pie.  See  full  directions  in 
Chapter  III,  for  Pastry. 

FLAKY   CRUST   POR    FAMILY   PIES. 

South  Kensington  Training  School  of  CooTcery. 

Put  one  pound  of  flour  in  a  bowl,  mix  with  it  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking  powder,  whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a 
stiff  foam,  put  them  to  the  flour  with  a  scant  saltspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  make  all  into  a  stiff  paste  with  ice-cold 
water  (about  one  gill). 

Flour  a  board,  turn  the  paste  out  on  it;  flour  the  roll- 
ing-pin, and  roll  it  to  a  thin  sheet.  Divide  half  a  pound 

of  butter  into  three  parts.     Take  one  part  and  spread  it 

208 


Pies  a7id  Tarts,  *        209 

all  over  the  paste  with  a  knife,  dredge  flo^ar  over  it  and 
fold  the  paste  in  three,  flour  the  rolling-pin  again,  roll 
out  the  paste  and  spread  the  second  portion  of  butter 
over  it;  fold  the  paste  as  before,  roll  it  out  and  spread 
the  third  portion  of  butter.  Fold  it  again  and  roll  it 
to  the  thickness  required  for  a  pie — the  third  of  an  inch. 
This  paste  requires  a  quick  oven. 

ENGLISH   FRUIT   TARTS. 

These  are  made  in  oval  deep  dishes,  with  crust  only 
lining  the  sides,  not  the  bottom,  giving  more  fruit  and 
juice,  and  are  preferred  by  those  who  do  not  like  the 
heavy  undercrust. 

CURRAKT   AND   RASPBERRY  TARTS. 

Cut  long  strips  of  ^^  rough  pufE  paste ''  (see  recipe)  an 
inch  and  half  to  two  inches  wide,  wet  the  sides  of  an 
oval  dish,  lay  the  paste  round,  pressing  the  sides  not  the 
edges — fill  with  three  parts  raspberries,  one  of  currants, 
pour  in  a  cup  of  water  and  one  of  sugar,  wetting  margin 
and  put  on  a  cover,  observing  directions  (Pastry, 
Chapter  III). 

CHERRY  AND  CURRANT  TART. 

Use  three  parts  cherries  and  one  of  currants,  unless 
you  have  regular  cooking  cherries,  when  the  currants 
may  not  be  necessary,  make  the  tart  according  to  direc- 
tions for  raspberry  and  currant  tart. 

BLACKBERRY    TART. 

Blackberry  tarts  or  pies  are  greatly  improved  by 
having  one-third  apple  added  to  them.  Make  as  directed 
for  other  fruit  tarts. 

Apple  and  all  fruit  tarts  are  made  in  the  same  way. 


2 1 0        *  Practical  Recipes, 

APPLE    PIE. 

Make  some  '^  rough  puff  paste  "  (see  recipe);  roll  half 
of  it  thin;  line  a  pie-plate;  peel  and  cut  up  some  fine 
baking  apples;  fill  the  pie  (see  Chapter  III).  Grate  the 
rind  of  a  lemon  or  some  nutmeg  over  it;  put  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  or  more  if  apples  are  tart,  and  half 
a  cup  of  water  over  it;  roll  out  the  rest  of  the  paste  for 
cover,  the  third  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cover  as  directed 
elsewhere. 

APPLE   PIE,    NO.    2. 

Make  some  very  nice  apple  sauce — which  must  be 
long  and  slowly  stewed  till  it  is  almost  jelly;  flavor  with 
lemon  peel  and  a  little  juice;  line  a  pie-plate  with 
*^ rough  pufl^^  paste;  cut  some  strips  an  inch  and  half 
wide,  lay  this  round  the  edge  over  the  lining  so  as  to 
make  a  double  edge,  pressing  only  the  lower  part  of  the 
strip;  pour  in  the  apple  sauce,  which  must  be  cool;  sift 
sugar  over  thickly;  cut  thin  strips  of  the  paste,  twist 
them  and  lay  them  over  in  cross-bars;  in  every  open 
square  stick  half  a  blanched  almond  if  wanted  orna- 
mental, or  else  after  it  is  baked  a  saltspoonful  of  red 
jelly  in  every  square  opening. 

This  pie  may  be  made  with  any  preserve. 

LEMOK    PIE,   i^o.    1. 

Beat  two  ounces  of  butter  to  a  cream,  if  very  salt 
wash  it  first,  mix  with  it  four  ounces  of  sugar,  a- cup  of 
bread-crumbs  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one 
white,  the  grated  rind  of  two  lemons,  the  juice  of  one. 
Stir  briskly  and  pour  into  a  pie-plate  lined  with  paste, 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven ;  beat  two  heaping  tablespoonf  uls 
of  powdered  sugar  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  make  a 


Pies  and  Tarts,  211 

meringue  and  cover  the  pie  with  it;  return  to  the  oyen 
to  color. 

LEMOK    PIE,    NO.    2. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  of  corn-starch  mixed  with  six  of 
cold  water;  stir  a  scant  cup  of  boiling  water  in  it  and  boil, 
stirring  all  the  while,  just  as  you  would  make  starch; 
when  it  has  boiled  five  minutes,  grate  the  rind  of  two 
lemons  to  it,  add  five  ounces  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of 
the  lemons,  two  ounces  of  butter,  stirring  the  latter  in 
one  way  till  the  mixture  boils,  then  let  cool  one  minute, 
beat  in  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  the  whites  of  two,  stir 
well  two  minutes,  then  pour  the  mixture  into  two 
medium-sized  pie-plates.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  spread  it  over  the  pie 
when  it  comes  out  of  the  oven;  return  it,  and  let  the 
meringue  color  lightly. 

LEMO]^^   PIE,  NO.  3    (rich). 

Take  four  ounces  of  stale  cup  or  sponge  cake,  or  the 
same  quantity  of  macaroons,  crumbled;  squeeze  over  the 
crumbs  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  grate  the  rind  of  two; 
three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  rich  cream,  or  six  ounces  of 
butter  beaten  to  cream,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sugar;  pour  over  these  ingredients  the  well-beaten  yolks 
of  six  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  three;  add  a  small  pinch 
of  salt  and  mix. 

Pour  the  mixture  into  two  medium  pie-dishes  lined 
with  rough  puff  paste  (see  recipe).  Use  the  three 
whites  left  for  meringue  which  spread  over  the  pies. 

COCOANUT   PIE,    NO.    1. 

Line  a  dish  with  rough  puff  paste,  pour  a  pint  of  hot 
milk   (not  boiling)  over  two  well  beaten  eggs;  set  the 


212  Practical  Recipes, 

bowl  containing  the  mixture  in  boiling  water,  stir  it  till 
thick,  then  take  it  out,  and  stir  in  half  a  cup  of  sugar, 
and  either  a  cup  of  grated  cocoanut,  or  a  cup  of  dessi- 
cated  cocoanut,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  yanilla  or  the 
grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon. 

COCOANUT  PIE,    NO.   2. 

Mix  two  eggs  well  beaten  with  a  cup  of  milk  and  the 
milk  of  the  nut,  if  it  is  quite  sweet;  take  off  the  brown 
skin  of  the  nut,  and  grate  it  as  finely  as  possible;  mix 
with  it  three  tablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  sugar,  two  ounces  of  butter 
beaten  to  cream,  six  ounces  of  Muscatel  raisins  stoned 
and  chopped  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon;  mix  and 
fill  the  pies,  bake  in  a  moderate  oyen  thoroughly. 

This  also  makes  a  good  boiled  pudding. 

SWEET   PATTIES. 

Take  a  pound  of  fine  puff  or  rough  puff  paste  ;  roll  it 
the  third  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter 
three  rounds;  put  one  on  the  other;  then  with  a  smaller 
biscuit  cutter  dipped  in  flour  press  on  the  top,  cutting 
only  one-third  through.  When  you  have  as  many  as 
you  want,  glaze  with  white  of  Q.gg  ;  bake  them  in  a 
quick  oven.  These  are  the  shells  to  be  filled  with  jam 
or  preserve,  and  will  rise  to  three  inches.  Delicious 
patties  are  simply  filled  with  thick  cream  twenty-four 
hours'  old,  sweetened,  flavored  with  vanilla  and  whipped 
till  firm;  when  prepared  as  directed  above,  remove  the 
centre  piece  of  the  patties,  which  is  the  cover,  scoop 
out  the  soft  dough,  leaving  half  an  inch  of  crust ;  put 
the  cream  or  preserve  in  with  a  spoon,  pile  it  high,  and 
lay  on  the  cover. 


Pies  and  Tarts.  2  I  3 

FKANGIPANI   CREAM   PATTIES. 

Prepare  the  pastry  ^shells  as  directed ;  take  off  the 
centre  piece,  which  is  the  cover ;  scoop  out  the  soft 
inside,  leaving  half  an  inch  of  crust,  and  fill  with  Fran- 
gipani  cream,  made  as  follows  : 

One  gill  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one 
tablespoonful  of  orange  flour  water,  two  of  brandy  or 
one  of  sherry  and  one  of  brandy,  mix  and  put  in  a  small 
saucepan,  boil  till  the  mixture  leaves  the  sides  of  the 
pan  ;  if  it  becomes  thicker  than  very  thick  cream,  add 
more  cream  or  milk ;  beat  in  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  six 
macaroons  crumbled,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  the 
peel  of  a  lemon  grated  and  a  tablespoonful  of  any  can- 
died fruit,  or  ginger  or  citron,  cut  very  fine  ;  set  the 
saucepan  in  boiling  water  after  the  eggs  are  added,  and 
stir  till  very  thick;  when  cool  it  is  ready  for  use.  It  will 
keep  a  long  time  if  put  into  jars  and  covered  with  but- 
tered paper. 

TARTLETS. 

As  these  need  not  rise  so  much,  you  can  use  the 
trimmings  from  patties  to  make  them.  Roll  the  paste 
quite  thin  ;  double  it  without  rolling  it  again,  and 
cover  patty  pans  with  it,  pressing  the  bottom  as  thin  as 
you  can,  but  not  the  sides  or  edges  ;  cut  pieces  of  bread 
the  size  of  the  bottom  of  the  patty  pans  and  put  one 
in  each.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  done  take  out 
the  bread  and  put  jam  or  preserve  in  its  place.  You 
may,  when  cool,  if  you  choose,  put  a  spoonful  of  stiff 
whipped  cream  on  them ;  or  instead  of  the  jam  fill 
them  with  frangipani  cream.  In  this  case  only  let 
them  color  very  lightly  in  the  oven,  and  when  filled 
with  the  cream  return  them  to  the  oven  to  brown. 


214  Practical  Recipes, 

OMELETTE   SOUFFLEE.       ( JULES    GOUFFE.) 

The  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  very  stiff  ;  the  yolks  of 
three  beaten  four  minutes,  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  powdered,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract 
or  the  powdered  vanilla  which  is  better;  turn  the  whites 
on  to  the  yolks  and  mix  very  gently,  lifting  the  yolks 
as  it  were,  over  the  whites  till  blended,  yet  not  stirring 
them  at  all ;  butter  an  oval  dish — a  soufflee  pan  is  best, 
but  an  earthen  or  thick  tin  will  do  ;  turn  the  mixture 
very  lightly  into  it ;  sift  sugar  over,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  till  a  golden  brown.  Serve  instantly  or 
it  will  fall. 

SOUFFLEE   A   LA   YANILLE.       (j.    GOUFFE.) 

Put  in  a  three-quart  saucepan  one  quart  of  milk, 
keeping  little  of  it  out  to  mix  with  six  ounces  of  flour ; 
when  smooth  stir  the  flour  into  the  milk  ;  keep  on  stir- 
ring till  it  boils,  when  take  it  off  the  fire  at  once  ;  put 
in  six  ounces  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla  pow- 
der or  extract,  and  a  pinch  of  salt  ;  break  six  eggs,  add 
the  yolks  to  the  paste,  one  at  a  time,  beating  it  well ; 
beat  the  whites  very  stiff,  and  add  them  very  gently  to 
the  rest ;  if  quickly  done,  the  whites  go  to  liquid,  and 
the  paste  becomes  too  wet. 

Bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  buttered  pan. 

FLAMIKG    OMELETTE. 

Break  six  eggs  ;  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately  ; 
add  to  the  yolks  one  tablespoonf  ul  of  powdered  sugar  ; 
stir  whites  and  yolks  lightly  together ;  put  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg  in  a  clean  frying-pan,  let  it  get  hot  and 
begin  to  boil ;  then  pour  the  omelette  in ;  lift  the  pan 
on  one  side  for  a  minute,  then  let  the  mixture  that  is 


Fies  and  Tarts,  2  1 5 

not  set,  run  oyer  to  the  other  side,  detach  the  omelette 
with  a  spoon  from  the  side  of  the  pan  ;  when  it  is  partly- 
set,  shake  the  pan  gently  back  and  forth  to  loosen  it ; 
turn  it  half  over  with  a  cake  turner ;  slip  it  on  a  hot 
dish,  dust  over  with  sugar,  and  pour  over  it  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  rum — warmed  if  the  weather  is  cold  ;  set 
it  alight  and  serve  flaming. 

This  omelette  may  be  made  as  directed  in  Part  First, 
if  preferred. 


CHAPTER  XXXII. 

DISHES  FOR  CHEESE  COURSE,  OR  FOR  SUPPER. 

CHEESE   EOKDUE. 

Put  in  a  small  saucepan  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  of  flour  ;  stir  over  the  fire  till  they  bubble  ;  then 
add  a  gill  of  milk  or  cream  (so  far  this  is  only  very  thick 
white  sauce)  ;  stir  to  prevent  burning  ;  when  smooth 
stir  into  it  three  ounces  of  finely-grated  cheese  of  fine 
quality,  a  saltspoonful  (scant)  of  salt,  and  a  tiny  pinch 
of  cayenne  ;  turn  it  when  well  mixed  into  a  bowl  and 
stir  into  it  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  ;  thoroughly 
whisk  the  whites  of  three  eggs  solid  ;  stir  them  in  very 
gently  the  last  thing.  Butter  a  dish  or  tin  which  the 
fondue  will  half  fill,  as  it  rises  very  much  ;  bake  till 
golden  brown  in  a  quick  oven  ;  pin  a  hot  napkin  around 
the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked  ;  serve  instantly  or  it  will 
fall. 

EAMINOLES    (sOYER). 

Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  ;  add  one  of  floor ; 
stir  over  the  fire  till  they  bubble  ;  add  half  a  cup  of 
water,  stir  in  four  ounces  of  chee,se  grated  ;  stir  till 
smooth  ;  remove  from  the  fire  ;  stir  in,  very  gradually, 
three  eggs  well  beaten;  have  ready  a  buttered  baking- 
sheet  and  drop  the  mixture  on  it  in  lumps  the  size  of  a 

walnut ;  press  each  slightly  on  top  ;  brush  them  over 

216 


Dishes  for  Cheese  Course,  2 1  7 

with  beaten  ^gg  ;  put  a  spoonful  of  grated  cheese  in 
the  depression,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twelve  minutes. 
Serve  hot  as  possible. 

RAMAQUINS. 

Crumble  a  slice  of  stale  baker's  bread  ;  cover  it  with 
a  breakfast  cup  of  boiling  milk  ;  let  it  soak  a  quarter  of 
an  hour  in  a  hot  place  ;  then  strain  off  the  milk  but  don't 
press  it ;  beat  it  smooth ;  stir  in  it  two  ounces  of  butter 
which  the  warm  bread  will  melt,  then  four  ounces  of 
grated  cheese  (half  parmesan  is  best),  half  a  teaspoonful 
of  made  mustard,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sifted  sugar, 
half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  one  of  salt,  as  much 
powdered  mace  as  will  go  on  the  end  of  a  penknife,  and 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  ;  mix  together  thoroughly  ;  just 
before  you  are  ready  to  bake  them  beat  the  whites  of 
four  eggs  solid;  stir  them  into  the  mixture;  either  have 
buttered  paper  soufflee  cases  ready  to  bake  them  in, 
or  deep  patty  pans  lined  with  puff  paste  ;  only  half  fill 
them  ;  they  will  take  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  to  bake  in 
pastry,  six  to  ten  in  paper.  Have  a  hot  oven  and  serve 
very  hot. 

CHEESE   STRAWS. 

Make  some  puff  paste  or  ^'  rough  puff";  roll  it  out  as 
thick  as  a  silver  dollar  ;  cut  it  in  strips  an  inch  and  a 
half  wide  and  four  inches  long ;  lay  a  little  rich  grated 
cheese  along  the  centre  of  half  the  strips  ;  then  on  each 
lay  a  strip  without  cheese,  thus  making  a  sandwich  as 
it  were  ;  brush  each  one  over  with  the  yolk  of  egg ; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  ;  serve  cold  or  warm,  piled  on  a 
napkin,  blockhouse  fashion,  with  mustard  and  cress  or 
parsley  garnish. 


2  1 8  Practical  Recipes, 

CHEESE   CAlSrOPEES. 

Cut  some  stale  baker's  bread  into  slices  half  an  inch 
thick  ;  if  you  have  a  half -moon  shaped  cutter,  cut  them 
into  crescents  with  it,  if  not  divide  into  diamonds  or 
any  shape  you  please  ;  fry  these  a  very  pale  brown  in 
hot  butter  ;  spread  on  each  a  little  thin  mustard,  and 
oyer  that  a  layer  of  rich  cheese  ;  season  with  a  little 
salt  and  white  pepper  ;  bake  in  a  sharp  oven  till  the 
cheese  is  dissolved.     Serve  hot  as  possible  on  a  napkin. 

CHEESE   FRITTERS. 

This  will  do  to  use  up  cheese  that  has  become  a  little 
dry,  although,  of  course,  fresh  would  be  better.  Put  in 
a  chopping  bowl  or  mortar  three  ounces  of  grated  cheese, 
a  dessert-spoonful  of  finely  chopped  ham  (this  may  be 
omitted  if  not  liked),  three  dessert-spoonfuls  of  finely 
grated  bread-crumbs,  a  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  ;  a  speck  of  cayenne, 
and  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten.  Pound  together  with  a 
potatoe  masher  or  pestle  till  smooth  and  thoroughly 
mixed  ;  form  the  balls  into  paste  the  size  of  a  walnut ; 
flatten  a  little,  dip  them  into  frying  batter  (see  recipe), 
and  fry  a  light  brown  (see  Frying).  They  will  take 
about  two  minutes  to  fry. 


CHAPTEE  XXXIIL 
SAUCES,  SAVORY. 

ENGLISH   BKEAD    SAUCE. 

The  English  serve  bread  sauce  with  most  kinds  of 
game,  also  with  roast  chicken  and  turkey. 

Take  two  ounces  of  bread-crumbs  ;  be  careful  there  is 
no  crust  as  the  sauce  must  be  very  white  ;  put  them  in 
half  a  pint  of  rich  milk,  with  six  peppercorns  and  a 
medium-sized  onion  ;  let  them  boil  at  the  back  of  the 
stove  ten  minutes  ;  then  take  out  the  onion  and  pepper 
corns  ;  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter;  or  two  of  tMch 
cream  if  you  have  it ;  stir  till  the  butter  is  dissolved  ;  if 
liked,  a  suspicion  of  nutmeg  may  be  added.  Serve  hot 
in  a  sauce  tureen.  Never  prepare  this  sauce  till  wanted, 
as  if  it  stands  it  will  get  pappy. 

BROWl^      SAUCE,      OR      ESPAGKOLE      (SPANISH      SAUCE) 

(GOUFEi). 

This  sauce  is  one  of  the  two  sauces  called  by  the 

French  ^^ mother  sauces,"  because  these  two  sauces  are 

the  foundation  of  nearly  all  others.     If  you  succeed  in 

making  them  well,  you  can  make  the  most  dainty  and 

most   elaborate    sounding  French    sauces   which   may 

frighten  you  to  think  of,  yet  which  are  very  easy. 

For  true  Espagnole  (I  use  the  French  name  here,  that 

219 


2  2  O  Practical  Recipes. 

when  some  book  orders  you  to  ^'  take  half  a  pint  of 
Espagnole  "  you  may  remember  the  brown  sauce  you 
can  make  so  easily  is  the  identical  thing)  is  required 
good  stock  or  else  glaze  (see  Chapter  IV). 

Dissolve  a  piece  of  glaze  the  size  of  a  walnut  in  half 
a  pint  of  water,  or  else  take  a  pint  of  strong  soup  or 
stock.  Put  into  it  half  a  carrot,  an  onion — both  cut 
fine — a  bouquet  of  herbs,  and  a  lump  of  sugar  ;  boil 
slowly  till  reduced  to  one-half  the  liquid  ;  then  strain, 
pressing  the  vegetables  to  get  all  the  liquid  out.  Put 
in  another  saucepan  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  scant  one 
of  flour ;  let  them  brown,  stirring  them  to  prevent 
burning ;  when  a  light  brown,  pour  the  stock  to  the 
flour  and  butter  and  stir  till  it  is  smooth.  This  is 
Espagnole.  If  you  have  brown  flour  at  hand  and  use  it 
instead  of  white,  you  will  not  need  to  wait  for  the  flour 
and  butter  to  brown. 

A    SIMPLE   AND   QUICK   BKOWN   SAUCE. 

Cut  up  an  onion,'  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter,  fry  it  brown  ;  put  in  two  cloves,  a 
stick  of  celery,  or  six  celery  seeds,  a  bouquet  of  herbs, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  gelatine  ;  boil  all  in  a  pint  of  water 
till  the  gelatine  is  dissolved;  take  off  the  liquid  and  stir 
in  it  a  large  teaspoonful  of  Liebig's  extract  of  beef; 
thicken  with  brown  thickening,  and  put  in  half  a  tea- 
spoonful of  salt. 

Eemember,  although  good  sauces  always  call  for  stock 
and  this  may  sometimes  seem  to  preclude  the  possibility 
of  making  them,  there  generally  is  iu  most  families  the 
means  of  making  stock  in  the  house — the  bones  from  a 
roast  of  beef,  or  of  a  turkey  or  chicken,  or  even  a  leg  of 
mutton  bone,  will  all,  or  any,  yield  half  a  pint  of  stock. 


Sauces,  221 

taking  care  to  break  them  up  as  small  as  possible;  add 
to  them  a  carrot,  an  onion,  and  a  bouquet  of  herbs.  A 
little  arrangement  is  to  be  found  at  the  best  hardware 
stores  for  cracking  up  bones,  which  is  a  great  economy 
in  any  family  and  would  soon  pay  for  itself. 

The  following  are  a  few  of  the  sauces  made  from 
brown  sauce,  and  which,  solely  on  account  of  their 
name,  I  think,  people  living  near  the  great  caterers  buy 
by  the  pint,  at  a  very  high  price. 

BORDELAISE    (GOUFFE). 

Put  half  a  pint  of  Sauterne  wine  in  a  saucepan,  boil 
it  down  to  one  gill ;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
shallot  blanched  (see  directions),  or  onion  (a  poor  sub- 
stitute), one  pinch  of  pepper,  and  a  pint  of  brown 
sauce. 

SAUCE   PIQUAN^TE  (SIMPLIFIED   FROM   GOUFFE). 

Fry  or  stew  half  an  ounce  of  shallot  or  onion  chopped, 
in  a  dessert-spoonful  of  vinegar ;  let  it  cook  until  the 
vinegar  is  all  absorbed — be  very  careful  about  this  ;  then 
put  it  into  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  brown  sauce  (to 
which  you  have  added  a  gill  of  broth  or  water  to  allow 
for  the  boiling  away)  ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
cucumber,  and  one  of  chopped  parsley  ;  cook  gently 
fifteen  minutes. 

SAUCE   POIYRADE. 

Dissolve  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  a  car- 
rot, a  turnip,  an  onion  cut  in  two,  also,  if  to  be  had,  a 
shallot  and  two  cloves,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  one  of  parsley, 
a  bay  leaf,  a  little  salt,  and  two  peppercorns  ;  let  these 
all  fry  until  they  are  a  nice  brown,  stirring  them  all  the 


2  2  2  Practical  Recipes, 

time;  then  add  gradually  a  small  cup  of  claret  and  half  a 
pint  of  good  brown  sauce  ;  simmer  gently  ten  minutes, 
and  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises ;  strain  and  serve  very 
hot. 

SAUCE   ROBEET. 

Fry  in  a  small  saucepan  three  medium-sized  onions, 
chopped  fine,  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  stir  them 
as  they  fry,  till  they  are  clear  and  brownish  ;  add  to 
them  half  a  pint  of  brown  sauce  and  a  wineglass  of 
water  or  broth  to  allow  for  the  boiling  away ;  boil 
twenty  minutes  and  strain;  then  mix  one  teaspoonful 
of  vinegar  in  a  cup  with  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  which 
stir  into  the  sauce  and  it  is  ready  to  use. 

BEURRE  i^OIR,  OR  BR0W2^  BUTTER, 

Put  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  small  saucepan  ;  let  it 
get  brown,  but  not  burn;  when  it  is  a  good  color  let  it 
cool  slightly ;  then  pour  in  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar 
which  you  have  made  hot  but  not  boiled  ;  heat  both  to- 
gether. If  you  want  it  for  poached  eggs  it  is  ready  to 
use,  but  for  fish  it  should  have  a  teaspooonf ul  of  chopped 
parsley  added. 

BROWN   THICKEi^ING 

Under  the  name  of  Roux  this  is  given  on  page  34. 
White  thickening  (Blanc)  is  on  the  same  page. 

MIKT  SAUCE  FOR  ROAST  LAMB. 

One  tablespoonful  of  mint  leaves,  very  finely  chopped  ; 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar — if  very  strong,  use  one- 
third  water,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar;  mix  two 
or  three  hours  before  using  it. 


Sauces.  223 

BKOWN   MUSHEOOM   SAUCE. 

Add  to  half  a  pint  of  brown  sauce  the  liquor  from  a 
can  of  mushrooms  and  half  of  the  mushrooms;  stew  five 
minutes.  It  is  much  improved  by  a  glass  of  sherry,  in 
which  case  the  sauce  must  be  allowed  to  cook  down  if 
it  should  be  too  thin.  With  the  mushroom  liquor  and 
sherry,  stock  to  make  the  brown  sauce  is  not  indispens- 
able, although  a  great  improvement. 

Use  with  fillet  of  beef,  or  roast  beef,  steak,  etc. 

TOMATO   SAUCE    (bLOT). 

Put  in  a  stew-pan  two  ounces  of  butter,  half  a  bay 
leaf,  two  peppercorns,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  an  onion  cut 
up,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  dozen  medium-sized  toma- 
toes, and  two  wineglasses  of  broth  or  water ;  stew 
altogether  about  an  hour  ;  then  rub  them  through  a 
strainer  ;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  dessert- 
spoonful  of  flour  in  a  small  saucepan ;  stir  together 
till  they  bubble,  then  pour  on  the  tomato  juice  and 
stir  till  smooth. 

WHITE   SAUCES. 

When  sauces  are  thickened  with  eggs,  it  is  safer  after 
they  are  added  to  stand  the  saucepan  in  another  contain- 
ing boiling  water,  and  stir  it  in  that,  until  it  reaches  the 
boiling  point;  remember  it  must  not  boil  or  it  will  break; 
yet  if  it  does  not  reach  the  boiling  point,  the  eggs  will 
not  thicken. 

BUTTER   SAUCE 

Is  the  foundation  for  several  well-known  white  French 
sauces.  It  will  be  observed  that  the  first  step  is  always 
the  same — equal  proportions  of  butter  and  flour  stirred 


2  24  Practical  Recipes, 

together  over  the  fire  until  the  flour  is  cooked;  then  milk 
is  added  for  white  sauce^  yeal  or  chicken  stock  for  bech- 
amel, water  for  butter  sauce.  On  these  foundations 
are  several  yariations:  eggs  and  oil  make  butter  sauce 
into  HoUandaise;  mushrooms  and  eggs  make  it  into 
veloute  or  allemande;  a  glass  of  white  wine  makes  it 
poulette. 

When  butter  sauce,  or  white  sauce  is  to  be  served 
simply,  more  butter  may  be  added  in  proportion  to 
the  quantity  of  flour ;  the  butter  will  only  make  the 
sauce  more  rich,  not  thicker  or  thinner ;  the  flour 
should  be  one  tablespoonful,  or  ounce,  to  half  a  pint  of 
liquid.  A  recipe  for  very  rich  white  sauce  is  given  in 
the  first  part  of  this  book.  That  sauce  cannot  be  im- 
proved upon  for  instant  use,  but  butter  or  white  sauce 
made  very  rich^  will  break  if  left  standing  many  minutes. 
The  best  proportions  for  a  sauce  that  is  to  be  kept  hot, 
is  one  ounce  of  butter,  one  ounce  of  flour  to  half  a  pint 
of  liquid.  If  wanted  richer  than  this,  stir  in  one  or  two 
ounces  of  butter  at  the  last  moment, 

BUTTEK   SAUCE,    SIMPLE. 

One  ounce  of  butter,  one  ounce  of  flour  ;  put  the 
butter  in  a  small,  thick  saucepan,  marbleized,  or  iron 
(never  use  tin  for  sauce);  when  melted  put  in  the  flour, 
stirring  it,  let  it  bubble,  stirring  all  the  time  till  it  is  a 
fine  yellow,  it  takes  one  minute  usually ;  then  pour  in 
half  a  pint  of  hot  water  and  a  saltspoonf  ul  of  salt.  Using 
milk  instead  of  water  makes  it  a  simple  white  sauce. 

ALLEMAKDE   SAUCE. 

One  ounce  of  butter  put  in  a  thick  saucepan;  when 
melted  add  one  ounce  of  flour,  stir  them,  let  them 


Sauces.  225 

bubble  one  minute;  then  pour  in— stirring  all  the  while — 
half  a  pint  of  hot  broth  or  white  stock,  or  if  you  have  not 
it,  hot  water  and  the  liquid  from  a  can  of  mushooms. 
Let  it  boil,  take  from  the  fire,  wait  a  minute  and  stir 
in  gradually  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  a  saltspoon  of  salt, 
a  quarter  one  of  pepper  ;  return  it  to  the  fire,  stirring 
carefully;  it  must  get  to  the  boiling  point,  or  the  eggs 
will  not  be  cooked,  yet  on  no  account  boil,  or  it  will 
curdle  ;  when  it  is  off  the  fire,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful 
more  butter.  If  it  should  be  too  thick,  add  a  very  little 
Iroth  or  hot  water. 

SAUCE   SUPREME. 

Make  an  Allemunde  as  above  ;  add  to  it  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  three  of  stock  ;  stir,  and  bring 
it  to  the  boiling  point  at  once;  squeeze  in  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  ;  use  at  once. 

POULETTE. 

Make  Allemande  sauce  and  add  to  it  a  glass  of  white 
wine.  If  anything  is  to  be  cooked  in  it,  as  sweetbreads 
or  chicken,  leave  out  the  eggs  till  last :  they  are  some- 
times omitted  altogether. 

CAPER   SAUCE. 

To  half  a  pint  of  butter  sauce  put  a  aessert-spoonful 
of  capers — not  chopped,  it  spoils  the  appearance — and 
a  teaspoonful  of  the  vinegar,  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and 
a  quarter  one  of  pepper  (white). 

BECHAMEL   NO.    1. 

One  ounce  of  butter  put  in  a  thick  saucepan  to  melt ; 
add  one  ounce  of  flour,  let  them  bubble  a  minute,  stirring 
all  the  time;  pour  to  it  half  a  pint  of  hot  strained  white 


2  26  Practical  Recipes, 

stock  which  has  been  well  flavored  with  yegetables;  stir 
it  and  let  it  boil  till  quite  thick — five  minutes  perhaps 
— then  add  a  gill  of  very  thick  cream.  If  the  stock 
was  seasoned  add  very  little  salt,  or  the  butter  may 
have  been  salt  enough.  The  stock  used  must  be  quite 
free  from  color  or  sediment. 

This  sauce,  so  simply  made,  makes  many  delicious 
dishes  ;  any  white  meat  can  be  warmed  over  in  it,  or 
it  can  be  used  to  mask  boiled  chickens  or  turkey. 
Pour  it  over  them  while  hot ;  and  when  cold  it  will  lay 
over  them  like  a  white  jelly,  making  a  very  elegant  dish 
if  properly  and  carefuly  put  on.  The  bird  should  be  as 
completely  and  smoothly  covered  as  a  cake  is  with  icing. 

BECHAMEL   i^O.    2,    EOK   FISH. 

Boil  the  bones  and  trimmings  of  fish*  (or  else  use  a 
flounder  for  the  purpose)  in  a  quart  of  water  in  which 
you  have  a  bouquet  of  sweet  herbs,  a  bay  leaf,  a  piece  of 
carrot,  half  a  dozen  peppercorns,  and  a  small  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt ;  boil  till  there  is  only  half  a  pint  of  stock  ; 
strain  through  a  cloth,  and  pour  it  on  to  a  tablespoonf  ul 
of  butter  and  flour  that  have  been  cooked  together,  as 
for  white  sauce,  stirring  carefully ;  when  thick  and 
smooth  stir  in  a  gill  of  cream  ;  use  as  a  sauce  for  fish 
where  directed. 

OYSTER   SAUCE,    WHITE. 

Open  two  dozen  oysters,  carefully  preserve  the  liquor; 
stir  one  ounce  of  butter  and  one  ounce  of  flour  together 
over  the  fire  until  they  bubble  ;  pour  the  strained  oyster 
liquor  into  a  half-pint  measure  and  as  much  cream  or 
milk  as  will  fill  it ;  make  this  hot  and  put  it  to  the 
butter  and  flour,  stirring  all  the  while ;  when  it  boils 


Sauces.  227 

put  in  the  oysters,  leave  them  only  till  they  are  firm  and 
plump  ;  when  the  edges  begin  to  curl  they  are  done  ; 
add  half  the  juice  of  a  small  lemon,  a  quarter  of  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  and  salt  as  may  be  required. 
This  sauce  is  excellent  with  turkey. 

OYSTER   SAUCE,    BROWK. 

Make  half  a  pint  of  brown  sauce;  add  the  liquor  strained 
from  two  dozen  oysters  ;  boil  together  till  of  the  right 
thickness  (the  oyster  liquor  will  have  thinned  it),  then 
drop  in  the  oysters,  let  them  simmer  till  the  edges  curl; 
take  the  sauce  from  the  fire  instantly. 

It  is  English  fashion  to  send  this  sauce  to  table  with 
beefsteak. 

SOUBISE   OR   ONION   SAUCE. 

Boil  medium  sized  onions  tender,  chop  them  up 
quickly,  put  them  into  cold  water  while  you  make  half 
a  pint  of  white  sauce,  then  put  a  half  saltspoonful  of 
white  pepper  in  it;  drain  the  onions,  add  them  to  the 
sauce,  and  if  you  have  it,  a  little  cream;  let  them  cook 
together  ten  minutes  and  serve. 

If  you  have  the  white  sauce  ready  when  the  onions 
are  chopped,  you  need  not  throw  them  into  cold  water; 
it  is  only  to  prevent  them  getting  dark  in  color. 

HOLLANDAISE    SAUCE,    (GOUFFil). 

Put  in  a  saucepan  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  with 
a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  half  one  of  pepper  (white), 
let  it  boil  down  to  one  dessert-spoonful.  Take  it  from 
the  fire,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  and  yolks 
of  two  eggs  beaten;  put  on  the  fire  again,  stirring  till  it 
begins  to  thicken  (take  care  it  does  not  boil);  take  it 


2  28  Practical  Recipes. 

off  the  fire  again,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  stir  till  melted;  replace  on  the  fire  one  minute, 
take  off  again;  put  another  piece  of  butter  the  same  size, 
stirring  until  the  butter  melts  and  becomes  incorporated 
with  the  eggs;  replace  again  on  the  fire,  do  this  until 
four  ounces  of  butter  have  been  used  and  the  sauce  looks 
like  a  thick  yellow  mayonnaise.  Never  add  more  butter 
until  the  last  is  thoroughly  blended;  and  when  you  put 
in  the  third  piece,  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water, 
to  prevent  it  turning. 

You  will  observe  that  the  whole  process  is  very  much 
like  making  a  hot  mayonnaise,  using  butter  instead  of 
oil;  the  reason  for  the  frequent  taking  off  and  putting 
on  the  fire,  is  because  the  eggs  must  be  at  'boiling  pointy 
yet  not  boil;  after  each  fresh  piece  of  butter,  they  are 
cooled ;  they  must  then  be  brought  back  to  the  same 
degree,  if  they  were  left  on  the  stove  the  butter  would 
oil. 

It  sounds  much  more  complicated  than  it  is,  and  this 
HoUandaise  is  the  one  found  in  all  fine  French  cooking; 
but  it  is  not  the  one  commonly  used  in  this  country  and 
in  England,  which  is  as  follows: 

DUTCH   OR   HOLLAND ATSE   SAUCE    (sIMPLE). 

Make  half  a  pint  of  butter  sauce  as  directed,  then  stir 
in  gradually  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  putting  it  in  drop  by  drop  just  as 
you  would  for  mayonnaise;  when  thick  and  smooth,  put 
in  a  dessert-spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  a  saltspoonful  of 
salt,  and  half  one  of  white  pepper.  Some  mix  with  the 
lemon  juice  before  adding  it  a  teaspoonful  of  dry  mus- 
tard. 

You  will  observe  this  recipe  is  simply  a  combination 


Sauces.  229 

of  mayonnaise  and  butter  sauce,  and  when  cold  can  be 
used  as  a  salad  dressing  by  those  who  do  not  care  for  so 
rich  a  sauce  as  mayonnaise. 

GREEN   DUTCH   SAUCE, 

Is  simply  HoUandaise  sauce  with  suflBcient  parsley 
juice  to  color  it  green.  Pound  the  leaves  of  fresh  pars- 
ley and  squeeze  the  juice  through  muslin.  Stir  it  into 
the  sauce  the  last  thing. 

MAYONNAISE. 

stir  the  yolk  of  one  ^.gg  in  a  bowl  for  one  minute, 
then  add  oil  drop  by  drop,  stirring  all  the  time;  when 
once  the  oil  and  egg  have  thickened,  and  taken  an 
opaque  creamy  consistency,  the  oil  may  be  put  in  more 
freely.  Yet  always  be  careful  to  see  it  well  blended 
before  adding  more. 

When  it  gets  very  thick,  add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar, 
then  more  oil,  till  you  have  as  much  as  you  require;  the 
vinegar  must  depend  on  individual  taste;  half  a  gill  of 
vinegar  is  usually  enough  for  half  a  pint  of  oil.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  last;  many  mix  a  teaspoonful  of  dry 
mustard  with  the  egg  at  starting,  but  although  a  pleas- 
ant addition,  it  does  not  belong  to  mayonnaise  proper, 
but  to  tartar  sauce. 

N.  B. — This  sauce  can  be  made  more  surely  when 
bowl,  egg  and  oil  are  ice  cold;  in  warm  weather  make  it 
in  a  cool  room. 

TARTAR  SAUCE,    KG.    1. 

Make  some  mayonnaise,  put  into  a  bowl  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  dry  mustard,  mix  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
the  mayonnaise  till  smooth.     Add  a  tablespoonful  of 


2  3  O  Practical  Recipes, 

finely  chopped  shallots,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  tarragon 
and  chervil;  mix  all  together,  and  add  to  the  mayon- 
naise. 

TAETAR   SAUCE,    1^0.    2. 

It  is  often  difficult  to  obtain  the  herbs  used  in  French 
tartar  sauce — therefore  this  substitute  is  commonly 
used;  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley,  one 
dessert-spoonful  of  capers,  one  of  finely  chopped  pickled 
cucumbers,  and  half  a  one  of  onion  or  shallot.  Add 
these  to  half  a  pint  of  mayonnaise,  or  half  to  half  the 
quantity.     Mustard  as  in  last  recipe. 


SWEET  SAUCES. 
ALMOKD    SAUCE. 

Take  two  ounces  of  almond  paste,  boil  half  a  pint  of 
rich  milk,  pour  a  little  on  the  almond  paste  at  first, 
to  soften  and  moisten  it.  When  it  is  well  mixed  with 
the  back  of  a  fork,  pour  on  the  rest  of  the  boiling  milk; 
mix  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk;  pour 
this  to  the  almonds  and  milk.  Let  it  boil  two  minutes, 
remove  from  the  fire,  wait  one  minute,  then  stir  in  the 
yolk  of  an  egg;  stir  altogether  over  the  fire  till  it  comes 
to  boiling  point.  Add  sugar  to  taste,  and  serve  for  any 
sweet  pudding. 

HARD    SAUCE. 

Wash  half  a  cup  of  butter  till  the  salt  is  nearly  all  out 
of  it;  then  beat  it,  gradually  adding  a  cup  of  powdered 
sugar;  and  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg;  when  it  is  all 
very  light  and  white,  flavor  either  with  a  teaspoonful  of 


Sweet  Sauces,  2  3 1 

vanilla  powder  or  extract,   or  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
wine. 

LEMQ]^   SAUCE,    (l^EW   YORK   COGKIJSTG   SCHOOL). 

One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  water,  the  rind  (pared 
off  very  thinly)  of  two  lemons,  with  the  strained  juice; 
boil  all  together  ten  minutes;  beat  the  yolk  of  three 
eggs.  Strain  the  syrup,  stir  the  the  eggs  into  it,  set 
the  saucepan  in  another  of  boiling  water,  and  beat 
rapidly  tilljhick  and  smooth  ;  remove  from  the  water, 
and  beat  fiW  minutes. 

CHAKDOT.      CAREME'S    CELEBRATED    PUDDING   SAUCE. 

Mix  half  a  pint  of  sherry,  with  four  ounces  of  sugar 
and  two  eggs  well  beaten  in  a  bowl,  which  set  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water;  beat  rapidly  with  an  egg-beater 
till  thick  and  smooth. 

EISTGLISH   BRA:N"DT   SAUCE   FOR   PLUM   PUDDIi^GS. 

A  tablespoonful  of  butter  stirred  in  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire,  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  till  they  bubble. 
Stir  into  them  a  gill  of  water  and  half   a  gill  of  brandy. 

POLKA   SAUCE. 

Beat  three  ounces  of  butter,  with  a  cup  of  powdered 
sugar,  till  they  are  very  light  and  foamy;  set  the  bowl  in 
boiling  water,  make  three  glasses  of  sherry  hot,  add  it 
gradually  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  beating  all  the  time; 
do  not  cease  beating  till  all  are  at  the  boiling  point. 
Then  serve  with  ice-cold  polka  pudding. 

YAKILLA   SAUCE. 

Quarter  of  a  cup  of  butter,  a  cup  of  water,  and 
one  of  sugar,  boil  together;  remove  from  the  fire,  have 


232  Practical  Recipes, 

two  eggs  well  beaten,  pour  the  hot  mixture  to  them  and 
then  stir  together  oyer  the  fire  till  thick;  if  you  do  this 
in  a  bowl  set  in  boiling  water,  there  is  less  danger  of 
curdling  the  eggs.  Add  one  teaspoonf  ul  of  vanilla  pow- 
der or  extract  and  serve. 

FRUIT   SAUCE. 

Sauce  from  fresh  fruit  is  made  by  stewing  the  fruit, 
cherries,  raspberries,  etc.,  in  an  equal  quantity  of  water 
and  half  a  pint  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  m^ter;  when 
very  tender,  pulp  through  a  strainer.  It  may  be  thick- 
ened with  a  little  cornstarch  if  desired. 


CHAPTEE  XXXIV. 
CAKES. 

SPONGE   JELLY   CAKE. 

Beat  three  whole  eggs  ten  minutes  by  the  clock,  with 
a  cup  of  sugar  ;  they  should  then  look  like  thick  cream 
beaten,  a  full  cup  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder;  spread  on  tins,  and  bake  five  minutes  in  a  very 
hot  oven;  the  whole  success  of  the  cake  depends  on  the 
oven.     It  is  very  like  real  sponge  if  right. 

Spread  with  jelly,  or  cream,  whipped  and  flavored; 
put  one  layer  on  the  other,  and  sift  powdered  sugar 
over. 

CUP   CAKE. 

Beat  a  cup  of  butter,  or  one-half  lard,  to  a  cream,  with 

two  cups  of  sugar.  Grate  in  the  peel  of  a  lemon,  beat  the 

yolks  of  three  eggs,  stir  them  in,  then  sift  in  three  cups 

of  flour,  using  just  milk  enough  to  make  it  a  very  thick 

batter;  when  the  flour  is  in,  whip  the  whites  firm  and 

add  them,  put  in'a  pinch  of  salt,  and  two  teaspoonf  uls  of 

baking  powder;  bake  in  a  buttered  tin  in  a  quick  oven. 

I  always  keep  a  piece  of  cardboard  (part  of  an  old  paper 

box  will  do)  to  cover  over  cakes  the  first  part  of  the 

time  they  are  in  the   oven;  this  prevents  the  heavy 

streak,  that  is  sometimes  caused  by  the  crust  forming 

before  the  cake  has  well  risen. 

233 


234  Practical  Recipes, 

FKUIT   CUP   CAKE. 

Make  by  above  recipe,  only  haye  ready  a  cup  of  fruit, 
currants  and  citron  or  anything  you  like,  well  floured 
and  made  quite  warm.  Add  them  last,  just  stirring 
them  in,  and  get  the  cake  into  the  oven  quickly. 

N.  B. — Fruit  put  in  without  flouring  it  will  sink  to 
the  bottom,  so  it  will  if  put  in  cold,  or  if  the  cake  is  stir- 
red much  after  it  is  added.  A  glass  of  wine  is  a  great 
addition  to  either  of  these  cakes. 

SPOKGE   CAKE. 

Beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  till  they  are  solid,  add  the 
yolks  to  them,  stirring  very  gently;  grate  the  rind  of  a 
small  lemon  and  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half.  Sift  in  eight 
ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  and  four  of  sifted  flour,  add  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Stir  very  gently  after  the  flour  is  added, 
and  only  enough  to  mix  it.  Line  a  tin  with  buttered 
paper,  and  pour  the  cake  into  it;  bake  forty-five  minutes 
in  a  brisk  oven.  Cover  the  cake  the  first  half  hour. 
When  you  take  it  out  keep  it  from  all  drafts,  or  it  will 
fall. 

POU]S"D    CAKE,    (very   RICH). 

One  pound  of  butter  washed  in  rose-water  if  you  want 
it  very  nice;  beat  it  to  a  cream  with  the  yolks  of  eight 
eggs  and  a  pound  of  sugar,  add  a  glass  of  wine  and  one 
of  brandy,  with  a  tablespoonf  iil  of  rose-water  unless  the 
butter  was  washed  in  it.  When  very  creamy,  stir  in  a 
pound  of  sifted  flour,  and  the  whites  of  eight  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  firm  froth. 

Bake  in  a  tin  lined  with  buttered  paper;  it  requires  a 
steady  slow  oven  and  will  take  an  hour  and  a  half;  cover 
for  the  first  hour. 


Cakes.  235 

FRLTIT   POUK^D    CAKE. 

Make  by  foregoing  recipe;  but  prepare  a  pound  of 
very  well  cleaned  and  dried  fruit,  shake  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  flour  through  it,  then  sift  out  all  that  does  not 
adhere. 

Make  the  fruit  yery  warm  and  add  the  last  thing. 

PLAIK   ICIKG. 

Mix  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  with  the  whites  of 
two  eggs,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  rose-water.  Simply  stir  till  smooth,  and  spread 
over  the  cake  with  a  knife  dipped  in  cold  water. 

POKDAKT   ICIISTG. 

This  has  taken  the  place  of  the  old-fashioned  frosting 
except  for  plum  or  pound  cake.  To  make  it,  see  "  Fon- 
dant," in  the  first  part  of  this  book,  page  92.  Melt  the 
fondant  by  standing  the  bowl  containing  it,  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water  and  stirring  it  till  it  is  like  cream, 
taking  care  none  of  the  water  boils  into  it ;  flavor 
and  color  as  you  please;  spread  it  on  the  warm  cake  like 
other  icing. 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Albert  pudding 203 

Allemande  sauce 224 

Almond  creams 93 

Almond  sauce 230 

Altering  recipes Ill,  112 

Apple  pie,  No.  1 210 

"      "     No.  2 210 

Apple  pudding,  English 136,  201 

Asparagus,  to  boil 66 

Salad 197 

Soups 142,148 

Baba  cake 86 

Small 87 

Syrup  for 87 

Balls,  egg 144 

Forcemeat 131 

Baked,  black  fish 155 

Blue  fish 152 

Tomatoes 138 

Batter  bread 121 

Batter  for  frying,  a  la  Careme...    59 

"  "  Provengale 60 

Batter  fruit  puddings 202 

Bechamel,  No.  1 225 

No.2 226 

Filet  de  sole  en 151 

Beep 

Au  gratin 75 

Beefsteak,  to  broil 60 

Stewed 175 

Boeuf  a  la  jardiniere 74 

Breakfast  dish  of 78 

Filet,  au  Chateaubriand 49 

Filet  roast 179 

Fritadella 81 

Miroton  of 76 

Olives  of 79 

Pseudo  beefsteak 75 

Ragout  of  cold 78 

Salmi  of  cold 73 

Roast  of 178 

Simplest  way  to  warm 77 

Stock 68 

Sirloin  to  make  two  dishes 49 

To  warm  a  large  piece 78 

To  garnish 179 

Beets,  cream  of 148 

Beurrenoir ^___ 222 

Birds,  small  on  toast 193 


PAGE 

Biscuit,  egg 121 

Quick 122 

Biscuit,  glace  a  la  Charles  Dick- 
ens     85 

Biscuit,  glace  a  la  Thackeray 85 

Blackberry  tart 209 

Blackfish,  baked 155 

Blanc ,  or  white  thickening 34 

Blanch,  to 133 

Bluefish,  baked t.... 152 

Boiling,  Chapter  on 65 

Boil  to 

Asparagus 66,  136 

Cabbage 65,  136 

Carrots 137 

Cauliflower 135 

Codfish 150 

Filet  de  sole 151 

Fowl 189 

Ham 65 

Lobster 198 

Meats 65 

Onions 139 

Peas 136 

Puddings 201 

Salmon 150 

String  beans 136 

Sweet  corn 138 

Turkey 188 

Bordelaise  sauce,  Gouffc's 221 

Bouchees  de  dames 88 

Brains,  au  beurre  noir 159 

Braised,  fowl 186 

Turkey 187 

Brandy  sauce,  English 231 

Bread,  Chapter  on 12 

Batter  bread 121 

Baking 14 

Breakfast  breads 119 

Cause  of  failure 14 

**      of  thick  crust 15 

Compressed  yeast 15 

Corn  bread 120 

CruifLbs  for  frying 56 

Dough  to  keep 106 

Pie,  crustof 97 

Kneading  of 14 

Oven,  heating  of 14 

Rules  for  rising  of 14 

237 


238 


Index, 


PAGE 

Sauce 219 

Soufflee 20 

To  set  sponge  for 13 

Breakfast  dish 78 

Salad 200 

Brioche 18 

Jockey  Club  recipe  for 19 

For  summer  pastry 19,  20 

Broiling,  General  rules  for  meats    60 
Chicken ,.. 61 

Broiled  prairie  hen 192 

Partridge 192 

Quail 193 

Salmon 150 

Brown  butter 222 

Flour - 34 

Mushroom  sauce 223 

Oyster  sauce 227 

Sauce,  orEspagnole 71,  219,220 

Roux,  or  thickening 34 

Butter,  brown 222 

Maitre  d'hotel 32 

Montpellier  _.. 33 

Ravigotte 33 

Sauce 136,  223 

Cabbage,  to  boil 65 

Cakes 

Baba 86 

BoQchees  de  dames 88 

Cup - 233 

Fruit  cup 234 

Jelly 233 

Fruit  pound 234 

Pound 234 

Savarin 88 

Icing  for 92,  235 

Calf's  brains,  au  beurre  noir 159 

Head,  a  la  tortue 157 

with  Hollandaise  sauce 157 

Tongue  stewed--, 158 

Canopees  of  cheese 218 

Candies 

Chocolate  creams 94 

Cream  almonds 93 

Cream  walnuts..- 93 

Fondant 92 

Panache 93 

Punch  drops 94 

Simple  French 92 

Vanilla  almond  cream _.    92 

Walnut  cream 92 

Caper  sauce 225 

Capon,  to  roast 190 

Cardinal  salad 197 

Carp,  stewed 153 

French  mode 154 

Carrots,  to  boil 137 

Cones  of 137 

Cases,  for  patties 170 

Cauliflower,  to  boil 135 

Soup 148 

Caramel  for  coloring 126 

Celeraic 54 


I'AGE 

Celery  seed  for  soup 106 

Celery  cream  soup... 68 

Ch'feese  canopees 218 

Fondu 216 

Fritters 218 

Straws 217 

Cherry  pudding 202 

Chicken 

Boiled 189 

Broiled 60 

Cold 49 

Croquettes 162 

Fricassee 165,  166 

Fritters 164 

Eromesquis 164 

Patties 173 

Pie 38 

Rissoles 163 

Roast 48,  186 

Use  of  feet 48 

Preparation  of 184 

Chops,  breaded 161 

Christmas  puddings 205 

Clinkers,  to  remove 107 

Cod 150 

Cocoanut  pies 212 

Coloring 126,95 

Company  to  lunch 44 

Cream  patties 212 

Cream  soups 148 

Croquettes  of  chicken 162 

Lobster 168 

Salmon 168 

Cromesquies  or    kromeskies  of 

chicken -'. 164 

Of  coldlamb 75 

Croutons  for  garnishing 129 

Crumbs  for  frying 56 

Cup  cakes 233 

Cutlets,  veal 160 

Lobster 168 

Venison 195 

Cucumber  and  onion  ragout 102 

CuraQoa,  to  make 89 

Curry 108 

Daube,  to  prepare  meat  a  la 129 

Devilled  meat 80 

Dishes  without  meat 102 

Dresden  patties 173 

Dripping,  to  clarify 59 

Duck,  salmi  of 166 

Roast 189 

Dutch  sauce,  green 229 

Egg  biscuit 121 

Egg  balls  for  soup 144 

Eggs  fried  in  balls 129 

English  apple  pudding 201 

Brandysauce 231 

Christmas  pudding 205 

Fruit  tarts 209 

Mock  turtle  soups 142 

Muffins 122 

Raised  pies 38 


Index. 


239 


PAGE 

Veal  and  ham  pies 38 

Windsor  pie 36 

Entrees 

Calf's  brains  au  beurre  noir 159 

Calf's  head,  Hollandaise  sauce.  157 

Calf's  head,  a  la  tortue 157 

Calf's  tongue,  stewed 158 

Chicken  croquettes 162 

Fricassee,  T\o.  1 165 

No.  2 166 

Rissoles , 163 

Fritters 164 

Patties 173 

Kromeskies 164 

Dresden  patties 173 

Lamb  chops  breaded 161 

Lobster  croquettes 168 

Cutlets 168 

Patties 171 

Mutton  chops  breaded 161 

Oyster  patties 173 

Salmi  of  duck 166 

Of  cold  meat 73 

Of  game 166 

Salmon  croquettes 168 

Patties 173 

Sweetbreads  fried _  159 

With  mushrooms 159 

Simple  dish  of 160 

Veal  fricassee 166 

Cutlets 160 

Variations 164 

Fire-bricks,  to  remove  clinkers  ..  107 

Family  soups 141 

Feuilletonage 23 

Filet  of  beef 179 

Filet  of  veal  stuffed 180 

With  mushrooms  or  oysters.  181 
Fish 

Black  fish,  baked 155 

Blue  fish,  baked... 152 

Broiled  salmon,  caper  sauce ...  15u 

Carp,  stewed,  No.  1 153 

No.  2 154 

Cod,  oyster  sauce 150 

Halibut,  caper  sauce 151 

Filet  de  sole  in  bechamel 151 

Same  fried „ 56 

Augratin 154 

Salmon,  boiled,   green   Dutch 

sauce 150 

Smelts 154 

Fisherman's  soup 145 

Flavoring 70 

Flaming  omelet 214 

Flounders,  to  bone _ 56 

"         as  filet  de  sole... 66 

Fondant 92 

For  icing 235 

Fondu 216 

Forequarter  of  mutton 101 

Forcemeat,  chestnut 131 

Oyster 132 


PAGE 

Sage  and  onion,  for  goose,  pork 

and  ducks 132 

Veal 132 

Fowl,  boiled i89 

Braised 186 

Roast 186 

Frangipani  cream 213 

Tartlets 26 

French  herbs 113 

Friandises 84 

Fricassee  chicken,  No.  1 165 

No.  2 166 

Veal : 166 

Fritadella  of  cold  meat 81 

Fritters,  cheese 218 

Chicken 164 

Fruit,  batter  pudding 202 

Cup  cake 234 

Pound  cake 235 

Sauces 232 

Frying 

Batter  for 59 

Provengale. 60 

Crumbingfor 56 

Oil  for 58 

To  clarify  fat  for 59 

To  test  heat  of  fat 57 

Croquettes 163 

Filet  de  sole.. , 56 

Fritters 164 

Oysters 57 

Parsley 128 

Smelts 154 

Sweetbreads 159 

Galantine 39 

Game 
Epicure's  way  of  preparing....  194 

Grouse 191 

Partridge 191 

Prairie  Hen 191 

Quick  way  to  cook  small  birds  194 

Salmi  of 168 

Small  birds  on  toast 193 

Snipe 193 

Woodcock 193 

Venison 194,  195 

Garnishing 127 

Garlic 108 

Glaze 30 

To  glaze  ham,  tongue,  etc 32 

Gouff e's  |3ot-au-f eu 68 

Bordelaise  sauce 221 

Hollandaise  sauce 227 

Omelet  soufflee 214 

Souffleea  la  Vanilie 214 

Rules  for  ovens 27 

Grating  nutmegs 105 

Gravy 29,    63 

Grease,  to  clear  soup  of 142 

Green  Dutch  sauce 229 

Green  pea  soups 149 

Hard  sauce 230 

Haricot  of  mutton -  175 


240 


Index, 


PAGE 

Hash 97 

Head,  calves,  HoUandaise  sauce  157 

'*    a  la  tortue 157 

Heart,  beef 100 

Sheep's 99 

HoUandaise  sauce,  No.  1 227 

"      No.  2 228 

Iced  claret  soup 149 

Icing  plain 235 

Fondant 235 

Iced  pudding,  polka ...-  203 

Queen  Mab 204 

Iced  soufflee 85 

'V  a  la  Byron 84 

Jelly  cake 233 

Jellied  fish  or  oysters 41 

Jelly  for  cold  chickens 47 

Jelly  from  pork 31 

Kerosene  lamps 107 

Keeping  meat 105 

Poultry 107 

Dough _ 106 

Kensington,  South,    rough  puff 

paste 169 

Kitchen  conveniences 114 

Kreuznach  horns 16 

Kringles 17 

Kromesquies  (or  Cromesquies)  ..  164 

Of  chicken 164 

Of  lamb 75 

Lamb,  cromesquies  of 75 

Roast 180 

Lamps 107 

Larding  needle 112 

Larding 129 

Leg  of  mutton  a  la  soubise 52 

Boiled 52 

Roast 179 

Lemon  pie.  No.  1 210 

No.  2 211 

"     rich,  No.  3 211 

Pudding 203 

Peels 106 

Sauce 231 

To  keep 105 

Lettuce  salad 196 

Little  dinners 50 

Liver,  sheep's 98 

Lobster,  to  boil 198 

Bisque  of 146 

Croquettes  of 168 

Cutlets 168 

Patties 171 

Salads. 196 

Luncheons,  Chapter  on 35 

Macaroni  with  veal 182 

Maitred' Hotel  butter 32 

Management  in  small  families. . .    47 

Maraschino,  to  make 90 

Marrow,  from  soup  bone 98 

Mayonnaise  sauce 229 

With  jelly 42 

Of  potatoes 199 


PAGE 

Meat,  to  keep , 106 

Salad 52 

Mephistophelian  sauce,  Soyer's..    81 

Miroton  of  beef 76 

Montpellier  butter 33 

Mock  turtle  soup 142 

Clear 143 

Thick-.... 143 

MufBns,  English 122 

Corn 121 

Mulligatawny  soup 144 

Mutton 

Chops  breaded 161 

Forequarter  of 101 

Haricot  of 175 

Neck  of 101 

Leg- of 52 

Roast 179 

Saddle  of 180 

Mushroom  soup,  white l 147 

Fillet  of  veal  with 181 

Omelet 125 

Sauce , 223 

Powder 29 

Nutmegs,  best  way  to  grate 105 

Noyeau 90 

Omelet,  easy 45 

French 124 

Flaming 214 

Ham 125 

Mushroom 125 

Oyster. 125 

Soufaee 214 

Tomato 124 

Onion  soup,  maigre 103 

Onions  stewed ^ 139 

Spring  stewed 139 

Sauce  or  soubise ,  227 

Ornamenting  meat  pies 37 

Ovens,  Gouffe's,  rules  for  heating    14 

Oysters 27 

Bisque  of 146 

Forcemeat  of 132 

In  Jelly 41 

Omelet 125 

Patties 172 

Sauce,  brown 227 

White 226 

To  fry 57 

Ox  cheek 100 

Partridge,  to  broil 192 

Roast 191 

Parsley,  in  winter 113 

Seed  for  soup 106 

To  fry 128 

Pastry,  Chapter  on 2% 

To  handle 24 

Tablets" 26 

Flaky  family  paste 208 

Rough  puff  paste 169 

Pate  ro7j ale  tov  soups 141 

Patty  cases 170 


Index, 


241 


PAGE 

Patties 

Cream 212 

Chicken 173 

Dresden . 173 

Frangipani - 213 

Lobster 171 

Oyster 172 

Salmon 173 

To  fill 172 

Peas,  to  boil 136 

Soup,  green 149 

Maigre 103 

Pies 

Apple  pie,  No.  1 210 

*'        *'    No.  2 210 

Chicken,  to  eat  cold 33 

Coooanut,  No.  1 211 

No.  2 212 

English  raised 38 

Lemon,  No.  1 210 

*'       No.  2 211 

*•       No.3(rich) 211 

Sea 176 

Veal  and  ham 38 

Windsor 36 

Piquante  sauce 221 

Plain  dishes 374 

Poivrade  sauce 221 

Potatoes,  boiled 66 

Mayonnaise  of 199 

Salads 54,  199 

Snow 45 

Soup,  maigre 103 

To  warm  over 46 

Pot-au-feu 68 

Pot-roasts 99 

Potted  meats 43 

Polka  pudding 203 

Pork,  for  jelly 31 

Roast  loin  of 183 

Forcemeat  for 132 

Poulette  sauce 225 

Pound  cake 234 

Fruit 235 

Poultry,  to  prepare 184 

Tostuff 185 

Preparation  of  game 191 

Poultry.. 184 

Vegetables 135 

Prairie  hen,  roast 191 

Broiled 192 

Puddings 

Albert 203 

Apple,  English 201 

Batter,  with  fruit 202 

Cherry 202 

Christmas,  No.  1 205 

**         No.  2 206 

To  mix 206 

General  directions  for  boiled ..  201 

Lemon 203 

Polka 203 

Queen  Mab 204 


PAGE 

Troy 204 

Puffs,  buttermilk 123 

Puff  paste 22 

Puff  paste,  rough 169 

Punch  drops 78 

Quails 

Broiled 193 

Roasted 193 

Queen  Mab  pudding 204 

Quick  biscuit 122 

Ragout,  of  cold  meat 78 

Of  cucumber  and  onion 102 

Ramaquins 217 

Raminoles,  Soyer's 216 

Raspberry  tart 209 

Ravigotte 33 

Recipes,  to  alter 111,112 

Remarks,  preliminary 1-12 

On  altering  recipes 111,112 

On  boiling 65 

On  bread  making 12 

On  frying 54 

On  garnishing 127 

On  kitchen  and  servants 114 

On  little  dinners 50 

On  luncheons 35 

On  maigre  dishes 104 

On  management  in  small  fami- 
lies     47 

On  sauces  and  flavoring 70 

On  soups 67,  140 

On  table  prejudices 108 

On  true  economy   in    buying 

meat 99 

On  roasting 62 

Rissoles,  chicken,  etc 163 

Rissolettes - 25 

Roast 

Beef 178 

Capon 190 

Chicken 186 

Duck 189 

Fillet  of  beef 179 

Fillet  of  veal,  stuffed 180 

with  mushrooms  or  oysters..  181 

Fowl 186 

Goose 189 

Lamb 180 

Leg  of  mutton 179 

Loin  of  pork 183 

Loin  of  veal.— 183 

Partridge 191 

Prairie  hen 191 

Quail 193 

Saddle  of  mutton 180 

Shoulder  of  veal,  stuffed 182 

Turkey 187 

Veal  with  macaroni 182 

Venison 194 

Robert  sauce 222 

Rolls,  soufflee  breakfast 120 

Fine 15 

Rough  puff  paste 169 


242 


Index. 


PAGE 

ROUX 34 

Royal  paste  for  soup 141 

Rusks.. 16 

Sage  and  onion  forcemeat 132 

Salads 

Anchovy 197 

Asparagus 197 

Breakfast,  Murreys 200 

Cardinal 197 

Celeraic - 54 

Chicken 198 

Cold  meat 52 

Lettuce  196 

Lobster 198 

Mayonnaise  of  potato 199 

Potato 19, 199 

Pork  in 199 

Tomato,  No.  1 200 

No.  2 200 

Veal  in 199 

Salamander,  substitute  for 112 

Salmi 

Of  duck 166 

Of  cold  meat 73 

Of  game 166 

Sauce 167 

Salmon,  boiled 150 

Croquettes 168 

Patties 173 

Steaks  broiled 150 

Savarin  cake 88 

Sauces 

Almond 230 

Allemande 224 

Bechamel,  No.  1 225 

"        No.  2.— 226 

Beurre  noir 222 

Bordelaise  (Gouffe) 221 

Bread 219 

Brown,  or  espagnole 71,219 

No.  2,  simple  and  quick 220 

Brown  thickening  for 34 

Brown  mushroom 223 

Brown  oyster 227 

Butter,  brown 222 

White 224 

Caper 225 

Chandot  (Careme's) 231 

Enjiliish  brandy .—  231 

Flavoring  for.. 70 

Fruit 231 

Green  Dutch 229 

Hard.. 230 

Hollandaise  (Gouffe's) 227 

No.  2 228 

Mayonnaise,  No.  1 229 

No.  2 42 

Mephistophelian 81 

Oyster  brown 227 

White 226 

Polka 231 

Soubise  or  onion 227 

Supreme 225 


PAGU 

Salmi 167 

Tartar,  No.  1 229 

No.  2 230 

Tomato 223 

Vanilla 231 

White  thickening  for 34 

Scotch  scones 120 

Scones 120 

Sea  pie 176 

Smelts,  to  fry 154 

Small     birds,    quick     way    to 

cook 193, 194 

Snipe  on  toast _ 193 

Sole,  filet  de 56,151 

SOUFFLEE 

a  la  vanilla 214 

Bread 20 

Iced 84 

a  la  Byron 85 

Omelette 214 

Rolls 119 

Soup  bone 96 

Soups. 

Asparagus.. 148 

Gouffe's  pot-an-feu,    or    beef 

stock  for 68 

Bisque  of  lobster 146 

of  clams 146 

"       of  oysters 146 

Claret  soup,  iced 149 

Clear  soup 140 

How  to  clear 140 

Clear  vegetable 141 

Coloring  for 126,  67 

Consommee  a  la  royale 141 

Cream  of  beets 148 

of  cauliflower 148 

of  celery 68 

of  spinach 148 

Egg  balls  for 144 

Family  soup 141 

French  fisherman's 145 

Mock-Turtle,  English,  clear...  142 

Thick - 144 

Mock-Turtle,  No.  2 144 

Mulligatawny 144 

Mushroom  white.. 147 

Onion 103 

Pease,  green 149 

dried 103 

Potato 103 

To  remove  grease  from 142 

Vermicelli 140 

Spinach,  to  boil 138 

Sponge  cake 234 

Sponge  jelly  cake 233 

Stewed  tomatoes 138 

Carp,  No.  1 153 

"       N0.2 154 

Beefsteak 175 

Onions 139 

Spring  onions 139 

Stew,  Irish 174 


Index. 


243 


PAGE 

Stock,  beef 68 

Veal 147 

Straws,  cheese 217 

String  beans,  to  boil 136 

To  cut 136 

Stuffing  for  veal  or  fish 132 

How  to  stuff 133 

Sweet  breads,  to  fry 159 

Stewed  with  mushrooms 159 

Simple  dish  of , .-  160 

Sugar,  to  boil 91 

Tainted  meat,  to  restore  _.. 107 

Tartar  sauce,  No.  1 229 

No.  2 230 

Tarts,  English  fruit 209 

Blackberry 209 

Raspberry  and  currant 209 

Cherry  and  currant 209 

Thickening,  brown  or  roux 34 

White  or  blanc 34 

Tomato,  baked 188 

Omelet  of 124 

Salad 200 

Stewed 38 

Sauce 223 

Tongue,  calf's  stewed 158 

Trussing,  poultry  and  game.  185, 191 

Turkey,  boiled 188 

Braised 187 

Roast 187 

Turnips,  to  boil 137 

Cones  of 137 

Tutti  frutti  candy 92 

Vanilla  almond  cream 92 

Sauce 231 

Soufflee 214 

Variations  on  dishes 164 

Veal 

Cutlets 160 

Fricassee 166 

Loin  roasted 183 

Roast  fiUet 180 


PAGE 

Same     with    mushrooms    or 

oysters I8I 

With  macaroni 182 

Stuffing  for 132 

Vegetables 

Asparagus 66,  136 

Cabbage 65, 136 

Cauliflower 135 

Carrots 137 

Onions 139 

Peas 136 

Potatoes 66 

Spinach 138 

Spring  onions 139 

String  beans 136 

Sweet  corn 138 

To  cut  vegetables 135 

To    make    strong    vegetables 

milder 106 

To  prepare 135 

Venison 

Cutlets 195 

Roast  haunch  of 194 

Steaks 195 

Sauce  for 195 

Vermicelli  soup 140 

Warming  over.  Chapter  on 72 

What  to  do  with  the  scraps 45 

Where  to  buy  articles  not  in  gen- 
eral use 112 

Why  meat  does  not  brown  in 

cooking 62 

Why  you  fail  with  bread 15 

Why  it  has  a  thick  crust 14 

Why  you  fail  in  puff  paste 22 

Windsor  pie 36 

White  asparagus  soup 148 

Oyster  sauce 226 

Mushroom  soup 147 

Sauce,  No.  1 71 

"       No.  2 223 

Thickening 34 


