UM OL WIA Artie Seth sh A tll SP cil BS sw Bir ak Eo EM GA VL sdl alist gle MeSh of 
A NC DA g 6g Sivtbet el Ms Sai BS wih Eve Ht Vein! Coke Ye Pian Kellen df 'eR fe vlekte tal 
Sia ne geae NEE eS ATM AAT Mag ee Lael pe a 
ahd ot 


pierre te Se 
niaha cect 
Sah cieneete : 


pie ete te . =i ya ta Bel rate Arigna ; Bah fe eric Ural iy tei wie agli te co Statvite sie Andi ail Meh te nor siiisite 4 GF Her oN eA Gil che DREN Sh yall on ab fea cAbt Zig Ss-dadiedl ; 
, . j > mh 38 " i 7 - © eA las nic ei EH ait tof ah) a Men Ret ah WMA HS eM OTA ae Windia oS WOR AEN Sie hbo Sg Kae oF hell heed adost-A9% his Be Re atacand 
ceric ibuths ire AS pine aston Mae act ERAS ATA aa aR Ato Tras eth tol DH aA eA SAS Sea RiaNi Mesh Ny HSM Lehi Rie enh Mh Lie Mea MAID ght i lied cll DAR a vasvedheReake here 
: as: siecle ae oN Sailer NNN ei e~B aN ah ik Ne AA Hoe Athed fraa Rosle Mobili oh Nie Uohlvd|etedl alii ithe fi adie Mots Mahdi Sanh itedocte 
a Fos preipmarsnernir arene penis asdipars-aeaies aba GE AN NA MAA ECA SEA AVM Site adie eS Lidl Me Leet dl Ath AL | wedinbeetinl, oye B 


“ i Katies a nivohg ts i Som “ Prelit ge TAA eee fad i 
ait, Pete 5 ah AAG meh AS welt Dal Se HE Hat ES MANN CFI M wil gfe loa MeN 0S Rem Nhl 2! cai Staal HO See! alte el eh Fi wk getias 
Pipe aA ihre ier oie al A eerie Rint weilell figee SSAA AY 8 pS eed Aim Terps REM eo KEM AM HAN eel aA wt lsd Ae iM AOR eli ad ital! sila Mele Cadi idiot Aver 
Fis acl Fi tae Mn - Set ngs ig Min gg Pic Tg 2 Ber <p spoon pal dielgetiincg abe ik die ipods alliy-aicubsanaataoraipcceck cet aia ae Gare eck clr chan et ae 
retatite ;tiptie- Si Ube alee hegrliragbrad tay ssa dibelioeike alk ascad dae aacbeLeli te Me ktiest dp oe a si aihuls alka pulipdiiei Seal epeaicieribe ieee sudondect- od ai Ot ciple euabag aoe ered tee ere tr 
zaibciis-diseiht hiweicdli puke Roast linc Fi Sh ag ae a TRIM an Fel US ATM IAAT Sino sh Fe S Soe eStiintpsal ete: 2 Heaton sv Haat ix Petit each ecn-2 garetts BPA Ale MOAN at RG eS Es He rANe eS NEM ot: 10 Broaden RH Dl Teo ee Re 
REA maaan HiT Rant ae alli: iy ; pS era aye were Teh pee 5 eA ETT Gili He Bie wt eT oil Hi Mh BM aM MT GA MGA A Hard APE AR REA RTA abl Moll Al wi lito od Gh dl ie Wik ol 
= vial 9 NY ates Casale aaes sieas - é . i ADAM SA Ate ME ST ll wdtide anda a east alle 
x ARM gst no det Wit ahi eat ty Gh AEM acbiond |g KT uethedted 
LI tht ain Fluid alte Deh th oT Me Boks alt ch Se Wer wehlgtt x howtim de. 
EP Tip Ma Re ied oF colt Re Mian ied Guh lie SMALE Donn gl AB deh 
wiper eee as Perret een rep oh Ao SE sal Glin at wt Roll 
4 ina ig Me taat-Seam Reie a Leela Steet Ben! CSN LD Ct ihe He 4 Le Ent EM pl AM aL 6 {elliot 
eee i aieraionle cil eat eta oc ak oe aba adiad eligi thle A Blithe nth go fc een Ta Bite oi ieee bs pty meme 
y Se ‘ Dees i 4 Satish adn ~ 3 AAS Meet NaS Ache ASAD Aloe etbcli oN Atta Ska AN nh A Rfeal oN ‘i 
3 oe Tsien Mts tine a Ds el . 7 Hetig ethene Ee eincehpe sil. cialis aie airship its aes edeta Bath a EEE ER AA GR Pal Mit N PRAT DD AK ROP AEE A AT EM 2 oF 
Be eal fear tl A aA AU se lee hearth aati athe cents Satta nat” ; PAIR: LW ete eel ea taht tin Titins ils ered cn Pag en pi itr Pam ern oP 
sale tclibctaaty by rth dairy yen Yc faeces Ce en inst tacit agate z P se Featliatislte Spe ae Hag : bik ; i . i a SEPT gta gts De ey GeV E aA mie Ri ngt geben 4 inhi ts fee 
ri ee eri ease Una Pte tell arse Sra Se er te pe eee Hint ie gta Bm Tieln tere LEE E a ice BRIE eae RR Siete, all eh Cate eC Ae HMC Tt EE i nd AEE NE Bl i ie Hes 
Eaiesitene! sat “ wire f GT agit - Z 2 


g se 5 a Sree wet ° * eae i sien ie har Sn ae + as ithe SANs - ison alite ball hereon oa ee an Bo: it LTS NPAC RAM Oat gt Hit a Prarie ei RR CR LSD gall efit in E8tme- Haine. . 
Sets Seal ed te hae A Ss geal ir ie De atta tes Ea Zeal Talitha oN cits ; Sere A ae sot y : Deen Meroe Ee ELE ARIA LN ARAMA SELON MARC AN eh Hoh eel 
Se UU acacine ae eae tea ere ae race i Bik dese io Masini one 


Wig ss har TB i Mai oa Sin RST Ae er Ie Tata” NU AN Alas) att Venta E i sh yates seen tnatemete rays Ri ries pabtoei S sn welt ia etter gals Sei Preemie x mane . : haifmarrnec ls epey 


fre LR de cr enlarger ge oe: ; : 

re canain gta aha ah tn ey me ac ne apn a hes a Tos itn te "He Peli  a t es : aR SIR th apf Hoe ‘ ts ed Se a PPO oir iran are Geicnattnseie memes Kl ath A eld 
Satta Beats Baha Nae eee ie aT Tessie = Ont elie adv PN a enews Ber =e ar ese Mentént ees: Rin tetas AAC A whe spies pean eR eK Batik 
oihng SRA pe as Gexietena the soit Ratt ee Actiesite™ eet crit ete Aaa = i ; ¥ —— : 5 Aigner 
eel = os : ea 


. oath eM gig Stat S Modi, » -- Takase pti . i em tiais apd To sal 
jf Sag Maia g Tien Po Ne Rea a eye al oa pie alae aHetrs Coie 5 y I eye 5 TRA ON SME Rohe Ni ot Mt BAP 37 aly Madi Hi oMto 
dinaiuaikcalseiperaiede- tera ean ne iieSe! ‘ of n < 


eee , ‘ Ae eh 

Te Wishes eT = ng tes the eile aa Sa ae Soe i = Ren tg! 

‘ant Maw ten Tipe ag ae hep oe 

Fee Meinite eT 5 
See nt le 

ee * ha eg os 
TT ap as Tr Ra hie tei oa A a Ne Mags tes 
TF Ya eT a thn Tan tem Tig ea os as 

ea! Tits 


Keates a el hg on Ba STILT fA F rts 3 ane aig 2 a EAE we ge Pee eine 6535 gh 
at Hi Tee Fig Pas Tag ove Orley Th ees ERD EN HS a Pe es eet eg = : eee sthastn aati 5 P, ? pe wots 
x Die get a Ne aaa slg Hae Pe a 2 ¢ ae 5M ein Ra * Senin ska at f ee 
7 Fas ee ase Res tag the Pitan Maas a ete tee a Vo athe ; E 
Pact ste mae fm Ts Pras esis Nw Si 


bp fan PAE HE Tan Tae ige et  smroes 
TM ag Fane Ht Se Pop ee ate Mahe ee ees 


TaphetniTy tytn ca 5 
Tl atta eR Mt ae 


ne ee ie 





fot tame iatieta tate Bet 
Se ee a Le ee 


THE LIBRARY OF THE 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NORTH CAROLINA 





THE COLLECTION OF 


NORTH CAROLINIANA 
ENDOWED BY 


JOHN SPRUNT HILL 
CLASS OF 1889 


C6125 
R16c2 


il | i CTT 


044650920 














| 
‘THIS TITLE HAS BEEN MICROFILMED 











Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2021 with funding trom 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


htips://archive.org/details/centralcookbookcOOunse 


“7 4 orgies 
ere 


t 


Bele 7) Fo 
Og ae x Nias 
| a Ai® Pe @ DG ES ‘ 
@ 5) Se, ae ASYe =A oA : = ; 
OO INC eee DE ROP ea te / c 
Ker! Sie : ee 


FpNG 





of aoe jf eamsn ff f emmean ff ff camer ff ffesswe ff Te ee ey feceme Hy bl enna ff ff meron ff 6] aiecners fj [f eaemocean fi [f oxmmect 1 ‘Meehan entniemetemtiemmee 


LEADS THE WORLD 
IN MOTOR CAR | 


“op ae aC : = 











Nash Motor Sales oo 
329 S§. Blount St. _ Phone eae i 
RALEIGH, N. nes : 


Gas eee ae eee awe : 








covescet fi }} tamer fl ff sree fff eomonae fff eames denon haat haere alread Nesaree fi samme 9 tomer fi sepa | 





General ® domonite os “Towing ore Wrecking 
Repairing : oe a 
PHONE 505 a : 


YATES AUTO. SERVICE 


“Any Repair to z Ar ry Car 





312 5. Blount St. RALEIGH, N ey 


Two fully equipped Weeeka at + your service 
Day or ee See 


i ee ee se gs eS ‘pone mee 





| 
| 
oe 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
ce 
+ 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 





MARKO BATTERIES ACETYLENE oe: 





Painting. ee : “Top Bulking and Repsrng 


Seton mee hi De oe) So eet eet Hen et me ae oe Wiesel eet nana ah - 


WVU? abe R foun $. pe 











Cook Book 





The Central 





Compiled and Published 
by 
Circle Number Three 
Central Methodist Church 
Raleigh, N. C. 


A Collection of Tested Recipes 
| 








BYNUM PRINTING CO., RALEIGH 




















CONTENTS 


Page 
Soups el 2G. ea ee Gi ae ee ee ee i 
Fish’ and) Oysters’ 1...) cece) wee eae meer ee aune are ef oe wae 11 
Egg Dishes and Omelets ................ LES rR Apes, des Chemin 15 
Poultry and Meats: 0). 004s h ees 2s arene eee ann ne aceon re ee 19 
Vegetables iia) ede ar eee can ae 28 
Salads and: Dressungs' \..2 [ees eer 34 
Cheese Dishes 5.5.00 45. ier re econ 45 
Bread’ and) Rolls): ci ee mee 48 
Qakes, Hillings’ and \[eings) 2) ug ee erence 54 
Cookiesand Doughnuts (2005) ee 74 
Mutiins ‘and. W afiles? 00052 a a ere 1 
Pie: Crust and Pies yea 83 
Puddings, and Sauces) 0... ee ee 93 
Ices and: Tee: Creams 0) ace ee 104 
Preserves) ie Ma a, en ner nm eee 108 
Pickles: A... 2g RS es ee 112 
Sandwiches ii sos ek a a ae ee 116 
Candy 23300. GOES rr ee mens 120 
Beverages yi) tei at oS Re en et 129 
Recipes :for The Sick: 3.3.10 ch ee 132 
Household: inte j.3 Ae 136 
Menus 2220 0%an ON Oe 145 





Central Methodist Church 
Corner Morgan and Person Streets 
Invites ‘you 

To Membership and to Service 


eet | eamnae | Taemecone L xatammmnoerar I emi sat | Te | a 


RECIPE FOR A HAPPY DAY 


Take a dash of water cold 

And a little leaven of prayer, 

A little bit of sunshine gold 

Dissolved in morning air. 

Add to your meal some merriment 

A thought for kith and kin, 

And then as a prime ingredient 

A plenty of work thrown in. 

But spice it all with the essence of 
love, 

And a little whiff of play. 

Let the wise old Book 

And a glance above 

Complete the well spent day. 


SS Ee ———_———————  ———_———— | 


——S SI) —— eS SS 


PREFACE 


There is an old saying, ‘““The way to a man’s 
heart is through his stomach.”’ 

So we have in this little book endeavored to 
give you the simplest and best menus of reaching 
it. Although the book is small the recipes are 
choice. The Committee wishes you success in 
your attempts in reproducing them. 

Particular attention is called to the advertise- 


ments in this book. 
THE COMMITTEE 


0 OA 2 ee 
SSS —SSS —eS eS SS SS 


OF the tthe tee hh $109 comme ff }} comma fj |] comme ff ff comme | jf emcee fff] comme ff | ome |] [femmenco )f ff cmmeme }f |] comme ff ff commana If }f commen | ff commen ff |] eommoee ff |] examen ff [i] comme ff / 


Fo hte th Hm Rm He me Hh a He Hh HN mH HN Hh U4 coremnes $f commen ff] ecm I mre ff Hemme ff 


fe 


CF te tem te tm te me ee ten ee homme mee i ee ce 


“NIGHT OR DAY—ANYWHERE YOU SAY’—“WE NEVER CLOSE” 


WALTERS 
Auto Repair Company 





General Automobile Repairing 
Phone 367 


eee eae Hh Nh eH NN Nh HN HH NH eH me Hh HO 


tome Remenfi lt emai eee fem} Hommes ff ene am Ht jf ee i} fe HH HH HN HH ee Ht HH ame OLD 


Nem iilomee ome fms item tHe (Ioan Hoe on Hemel HT eH HOLT OES 


If it is done with HEAT 
you can do it better with 


GAS 


arolina Power & 
Light Company 


Fa cme eon ff f9 cm ff oem fff eemmeme fH em  f coef 1f of Heme ff eee ff ff mere Ns ff jf ee fH Hf} comm f |] a i on bf moma fj cmmmmmee jf cmmmm Hf samme ff 


6 


Joh eh ht he NH el 


' KNOX GELATINE comes in two packages—PLAIN and ACIDU- 
LATED (Lemon Flavor) 


SOUPS 
Quick Potato Soup 
2 potatoes. 1 teaspoon tapioca. 
1 pint milk. 1 tablespoon butter. 


Salt and pepper to taste. 


Slice potatoes very thin, cover with hot water, add a little 
salt and cook quickly. When tender, mash quickly and add the 
milk. Let boil up, season with salt, pepper sand butter, and 
serve at once. Mrs. H. E. Georce. 


Chicken Brunswick Stew 


4 pound hen. 1 quart potatoes. 

Y4 pound veal. 1 can corn (or 2 fresh ears). 

14 pound bacon. 1 pound cabbage. 

44 quart onions. VY pound butter. 

Okra (if liked). Red and black pepper, salt to taste. 


Cook hen and potatoes thoroughly done. Cut chicken from 
bones and run through meat chopper with all the other meats 
and vegetables. Add this mixture to water that was used for 
cooking hen. Add butter, salt and pepper and cook three hours 
or more. Mrs. J. B. Martin. 


Cream Tomato Soup 


2 tablespoonfuls flour. 2 teaspoons sugar. 
2 tablespoonfuls butter. Celery seed, salt and pepper to taste. 
1 cupful milk. A pinch of soda. 


1 quart can of tomatoes. 


Cook tomatoes and water twenty minutes then run through 
sieve. Blend butter and flour over fire, add sugar, milk, salt, 
pepper and celery seed (ground), add baking soda to tomatoes, 
then add gradually to butter and flour mixture. Bring to 
boiling point and serve with tablespoonful whipped cream on 


top of each dish. Mrs. J. B. Martin. 
Vegetable Soup 

1 large soup bone. 1 can corn. 

1 can vegetables. 3 onions. 

1 can tomatoes. 1 cup rice. 


1 pod red pepper. 


Salt to taste. 


. . f five hours. 
Boil briskly for four or five Wea (en iby ieee 


7 


KNOX GELATINE is GUARANTEED to please or money back 





Chicken. Soup 


In boiling chicken for salads, ete., the broth may be used 
for soup. 

To the broth add a dozen (or 1 quart can) tomatoes, and 
one thinly sliced onion; boil twenty minutes, season with salt 


and pepper, add two well- beaten eggs, and serve. 
Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 


Brunswick Stew (Small) 


Dress and cut up one chicken. Put on fire in one-half gallon 
water. Let stew until bones can be removed. Add one-half 
dozen large tomatoes, one pint of butter beans, corn cut from 
one-half dozen ears and four large Irish potatoes sliced. Sea- 
son with butter, pepper and salt and cook until thick. 

Mrs. Crarence Howe t. 


Vegetable Soup 


Cover a 25-cent soup bone with cold water, when the water 
gets hot add three tablespoons of barley, two-thirds cup carrots, 
three small onions (two heaping tablespoons), one and one-half 
cups potatoes, three pieces of celery, one cup cabbage, two small 
pieces of hot pepper. Salt and black pepper to suit taste. One 
cup noodles, one can tomato soup. Grind all vegetables in 
the meat chopper and add to the stock. Just before serving 
add the tomato soup and boil five minutes. If a thin soup is 
preferred, put through a soup strainer and add the noodles after 
it has been strained and cook twenty minutes, adding the tomato 
soup the last five minutes. Celery salt may be used in place 
of fresh celery. Mrs. H. E. Groree. 


Noodles 


One egg slightly beaten, add pinch of salt and enough flour 
to make a stiff dough. Knead until it is elastic. Roll out 
thin and let stand an hour, then roll and cut into ribbons or 
fancy pieces. Cook this cut up material in boiling salted 
water fifteen minutes then add to hot soup or chicken broth. 

Mrs. H. E. Groree. 


Brunswick Stew 


1 pound stewing beef, veal or 114 cups water. 
chicken. 1 tablespoon butter. 
1 can succotash. 1 tablespoon sugar. 


Pepper and salt. 
Miss Miztprep H. Smirx. 


The KNOX ACIDULATED package contains Lemon Flavoring 





Irish Stew 
11% pounds beef. Small can of tomatoes. 
5 potatoes. 1 large onion. 


Cut beef into good sized pieces. Cut onion in quarters. Cut 
Irish potatoes in small pieces. Place all in vessel. Season 
with salt and black pepper to taste. Add a small piece of red 
pepper. Boil three or four hours. Mrs. W. F. Racranp. 


Irish Stew 


_ Take some brisket beef, about four pounds, to that quantity 
use six good sized Irish potatoes and three good sized onions, 
about one teaspoonful black pepper, a pinch of cayenne pepper, 
and half a boll red pepper. Also use four small carrots, and 
one pint tomatoes (one can). Cut beef in small pieces, also 
carrots, and cook thoroughly done. Put in the other vegetables 
when beef is about half-done. Mrs. J. D. Rieean. 


Stew Beef 
4 pounds tender stew beef. 4 large onions. 


Put on stove and cook for four hours, then put in one pod 
red pepper. Salt to taste and just enough vinegar to give a 
good flavor. Stew down and thicken with browned flour. 

Mrs. C. D. LeavistEr. 


Chuck Beef Stew 


Cheap cuts of beef can be made very good cooked this way. 
Three pounds at fifteen cents per pound. Cut in medium small 
pieces; wash in cold water. Fry out beef fat, salt and pepper 
and dredge each piece with flour. Drop in hot fat and brown 
well on both sides. Then add enough boiling water to cover 
and boil slowly for two hours. Keep just enough water in the 
meat to keep it from sticking. When done, your meat gravy 
and all are ready with a golden brown color. 


Mrs. J. B. Martin. 


C.D. ARTHUR 


Headquarters for Sea Food of all kinds 
PHONE 255 
Established 1886 Stall No. 1, New City Market 


ON ccmmmmanes ff JY ecmmmomme ff fj emma ff | exmaccmen ff jj semmmcenm }f |) eamerses ff ff comms }f ff comme ff] comme fi f] seme Fy jf meena ff] commen ji | comme ff ff comma fj ff coommmmane ff }} commen ff ff commen fj} ecm ff [] came ff }) emer fy || eememeam ff ff comme |] 


[Wf eqmemcmem fff] cmumce> ff }f commas || ff omemam ff ff esmmmes ff |) emcee |} ff oma fj ff emer ff jf ome ff |] commen if ff comme ff PS commen ff ff mmm ff |] comme {f | exe fl ff emma ff ff care ff ff comme ff ff cme ff [ccm ff || ome || (f om ff) 


W. 1. WELLONS 


RALEIGH, N.C. 


Painting and Decorating 
Inside and Outside Work 
Phone 1512-M 


Uf cca ff ff comma fi fj comma ff fj cee ff | rem jf comes ff ff emeoeem $f || comms [|| omomsr fi ff comer jf ff «mene jf }{ mano jf | commen ff | commas ff |f emeonn | [Y commen ff |) emma ff [f comm ff fj meme fH] commen ff} come ff [ comme ff 


WARREN’S TRANSFER 


Opposite Union Station 


301 W. Martin St. Raleigh, N. C. 
PHONE 538 
We Move Anything Movable 


C6 comms ff 1f exact ff fea fff ecmerzne ff ff commer Hf emacs fff commen ff ff emsecem ff H cemecom ff [f cxmenen }{ [f omen [f ff cmmecen, If | comme ff ff commen ff fj eommammm ff] cma yf comma fj Jj comme f |] commmem ff }f emsoero ff }f comme |] [f emma |} 


Vem [8 ommmeme 1 fl ero ff (feo ff comme f ff com fff comme fff commen [ff cme f ff mama fff] omen ff come Hf ff cmmesae ff ff commmas f Pcmme f ff mmmmes ff f omrmme|f fener ff ff omen ff ff cme ff comme fj ff me ff 


CHAS. E. JOHNSON 


Insurance 
Stocks and Bonds 


Phone 182 Office: Sir Walter Hotel 


Ch cameo i me ff mH mse fj om YH ee fH 1 ome ff mf |] ee ome ff ff oa fe fH come <n ff ee ff cme fe ff fH nem 


Cf ett i Hh eH Homi mt 


ef Eh HL ee fh me NL Nm Hamm OD 


ee Hf ese fl] }f commen ff) commen ff ff emma fY || oommmee fy }Y comme fj Hf ecm ff fj comme | 


KNOX GELATINE makes Desserts, Salads, Candies, Puddings, 
Ices, Etc. 





FISH AND OYSTERS 


Salmon Croquettes 
1 can salmon. 2 beaten eggs. 


Salt and pepper, and enough cracker crumbs, bread crumbs 
or flour to form into balls. Roll in flour, and fry until nice 
brown. Mrs. U. B. Atexanper. 


Scalloped Oysters 


Mash and drain one quart of oysters. Put in layers in 
baking dish, alternating with dry bread crumbs and seasoning. 
When dish is filled, add strained oyster liquor and sufficient 
milk to moisten. Cover with bread crumbs, add butter in bits, 
and bake one-half hour in hot oven. 

Mrs. Crarencr Howe t. 


Fried Oysters 


Select nice, large oysters and drain thoroughly. Roll in 
beaten eggs, then in cracker crumbs, oyster meal or plain corn 
meal, after adding little pepper. Fry in equal parts lard and 
butter. Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 


Oyster Stew 


1 quart oysters. 1 quart milk. 
4 tablespoons butter. Salt and pepper. 


Drain oysters from liquor. Heat liquor to boiling point, and 
skim. Scald milk, add liquor and oysters. Cook until edges of 


oysters shrivel. Add butter, salt and pepper, and serve at once. 
Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 


Oyster Dressing 


6 cold biscuits. 4 slices a loaf bread. 

2 eggs. Y4 cup butter. 

1 ae of oysters. 1 pint of broth from chicken or 
Sweet milk if needed. turkey. 


Salt and pepper. 


Mix ingredients, but do not have the mixture too dry. Bake 
in a hot oven. Mrs. W. J. RicHagrpson. 


11 


Use KNOX GELATINE if you would be sure of results 





Oysters 
1 quart fresh oysters. 1 cup hot water. 
1/8 pound butter. Salt and pepper to taste. 


Add hot water and seasonings to oysters and just bring to 
boiling point. Serve hot. This way will never make you sick. 


~ Mrs. J. B. Martin. 


Oyster Pie 


Place in layers oysters and bread. Season with salt and pep- 
per and a little catsup. Let the last layer be of thin bread 
slices. Pour over the whole enough oyster hquor to moisten 
well. Bake until done. Mrs. W. L. Nevrys. 


Salmon Cakes 


1 can salmon. 1 egg. 
V4 cup vinegar. 14 teaspoon salt. 


14 teaspoon pepper. 


Flour enough so you can handle easy. Fry brown in hot fat. 
Mrs. C. D. Luavuster. 


Baked Fish 


Clean fish, sprinkle with salt, and fill with stuffing. Sew or 
skewer the edges together. Cut gashes on each side of the fish, 
across. Put strips of salt pork in gashes. Grease the baking- 
sheet and place fish on it. Put the sheet in a baking-pan. 
Baste every ten minutes. Serve with drawn butter or Holland- 
alse sauce. Miss Jutta Coppreper. 


Baked Shad 


Roe shad is always best for baking, as the roe is a great addi- 
tion to the dressing. Scale and dress by making an incision 
lengthwise from head on body, or remove if desired. Wash, 
place in a flat baking-pan. Slash upper side of fish with a 
sharp knife and insert small slices of bacon. Scatter over fish 
small pieces of butter. Dredge the whole with flour, salt and 
pepper. 

For dressing: Four large, well-done Irish potatoes. Mash, 
season with celery, salt, butter, parsley and an onion; also mash 
part of the boiled roe. Add to other ingredients; brown; serve 
with fish. Remove shad carefully, so that it will not break. 
Garnish with lemon and sprigs of parsley. 


Mrs. W. L. Nevins. 
12 


Ali you add is water and sugar to the Knox Acidulated Package 





Baked Shad 


Clean, wipe and dry fish. Make a dressing of bread crumbs, 
butter, salt and pepper, parsley and one beaten egg. Stuff fish, 
fasten up with string, score crosswise, and place slices of bacon 
in scores. 

_ Sauce: Boil up gravy in which shad was cooked, add large 
tablespoon brown flour which has been wet with cold water, one 
tablespoon of catsup and a little lemon juice. 

Mrs. Crarence Howe xt. 


Shad Stew 


One-fourth pound bacon. Slice bacon and put in vessel for 
cooking. Cook till bacon is browned to a crisp, taking care not 
to scorch. Remove vessel from fire. Add water to cool. Shad 
should be sliced in medium pieces and placed in vessel in layers, 
with thinly sliced onions and Irish potatoes. Salt and pepper 
to suit taste. Between each layer put water enough to keep 
from scorching. Place upon fire, bring to boil slowly, and con- 
tinue till fish is cooked, which should be thirty minutes. Break 
one dozen eggs in vessel with stew, and when cooked, stew 1s 
ready to serve. One can of tomatoes poured over stew as it 
begins to cook will add much to the flavor. 

Rockfish could be substituted in place of shad, which is just 
as good, if not better. Mrs. C. K. Proctor. 


Baked Shad 


Clean, wash and dry the fish. Make a dressing of grated 
bread crumbs, butter, salt and pepper to taste. Stuff shad and 
sew or tie up. Put in baking-pan, with cup of hot water, and 
bake an hour. Baste often with butter and water. 

Sauce: Boil the gravy with a tablespoon of catsup, one table- 
spoon of brown flour and juice of one lemon. Garnish fish . 
with slices of lemon. Mrs. M. M. Murcuison. 


Salmon Croquettes 


1 small can of salmon or tuna 1 tablespoon milk. 
fish. 1 tablespoon butter. 
1 egg. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 


Mix ingredients and season with pepper, salt, paprika and 
bit of onion. Add bread crumbs enough to mold into croquettes. 
Roll in bread crumbs and fry in hot fat. This quantity will 
make about ten croquettes. Miss GertRuDE Royster. 


13 


Try KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE with the Lemon Flavor 
enclosed 





Cod Fish Cakes 
8 medium sized Irish potatoes. 1 pound codfish shredded, or 
1 can of fish flake (101% oz). 


Boil potatoes and fish together half an hour, drain and mash. 
About two tablespoons of milk, one egg beaten, pepper, a little 
salt if fish flake is used. This makes about fifteen cakes. Fry 
in hot fat, and serve at once. Miss Mary D. Guorez. 


Baked -_Halibut With Tomato Sauce 


2 pounds halibut. 4 tablespoon sugar. 
2 cups tomatoes. 3 tablespoons butter. 
1 cup water. 3 tablespoons flour. 
1 slice onion. 34 teaspoons salt. 

3 cloves. 1/3 teaspoon pepper. 


Cook the tomatoes, water, onion, cloves and sugar twenty 
minutes. Melt butter, add flour, and stir into the hot mixture. 
Add salt and pepper, cook ten minutes, and strain. Clean fish, 
put in pan, pour around half the sauce, and bake thirty-five 
minutes, basting often. Remove to hot platter, pour around 
remaining sauce and garnish with parsley. 

Miss Lovrinr Murcuison. 


Hollenden Halibut 


Arrange six thin slices of fat salt pork, 24% inches square, in 
a dripping-pan, cover with one small onion thinly sliced, and 
add a bit of bay leaf. Wipe a 2-pound piece of halibut and 
place over the pork and onion. Mask with three tablespoons 
butter creamed and mixed with three tablespoons flour. Cover 
with three-fourths cup buttered bread crumbs and arrange thin 
strips of salt pork over the crumbs. Cover with buttered paper 
and bake fifty minutes in a moderate oven. Remove the paper 
during the last fifteen minutes of the cooking to brown the 
crumbs. Remove to hot serving-dish and garnish with slices 
of lemon. Cut in fancy shapes, sprinkle with finely chopped 
parsley and paprika. Serve with white sauce II, using fat left 
from cooking fish instead of butter. 

Miss Lovinz Mourcuison. 


14 


KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE saves the cost, time and bother 
of squeezing lemons 





EGG DISHES AND OMELETS 


Scrambled Eggs 


Beat eggs until the yolks and whites are blended, but not 
frothy. Add one tablespoon of milk (sweet) for each egg and 
one-eighth of a teaspoon of salt and a little pepper. Melt one- 
half tablespoon butter in double boiler and add egg mixture 
and cook until creamy. Remove from fire just before it is of 
the right consistency, as it thickens after taken from fire. 
(Scrambled eggs may be cooked in frying-pan over a slow fire.) 

Miss Rutu Drew. 


Coddled Eggs for Babies 


Use small, deep pan, if convenient, and enough water to cover 
the eggs. Let come to a boil and remove from fire, put in eggs 
and cover pan, let stand about four to six minutes. Add little 
salt. Give white only to begin with, as some children cannot 
digest the yolks. Mrs. U. B. ALExanpeEr. 


Peach Omelet 


Beat five egg yolks until light, add one-third cup of sirup 
from canned sliced peaches and fold in five stiffly beaten egg 
whites, melt one tablespoon of fat in a frying-pan and tip the 
pan so that it is thoroughly greased. Pour in the omelet mix- 
ture and bake. Spread one-half with canned sliced peaches, 
drained, and fold like an omelet. Turn out on a plate, garnish 


with more of the peaches, and serve immediately. 
Mrs. M. D. StroTueEr. 


Escalloped Eggs 


Cook six eggs hard by boiling twenty minutes. Let them 
stand in cold water until cool, so that they will not discolor. 
Melt one-fourth cup of butter, stir into it until smooth one- 
fourth cup of flour. Gradually stir into this one pint of liquid, 
half milk and half water; cook, stirring constantly, until it 
thickens and is smooth. Add one chopped green sweet pepper 
and one-half teaspoon of salt. Remove from the fire, slice the 
eggs into it, and pour all into a baking-dish. Sprinkle thickly 
over the creamed eggs a mixture of cracker crumbs and grated 
cheese (three soda crackers and one-half pound of _cheese). 
Place the dish in the oven and bake until the cheese is melted 
and browned. Miss Mary D. Georce. 


15 


“COLDS 


TRADE MARK 





FOR SALE BY YOUR DRUGGIST 


(fecmmamn fi ff ccazan ff exces ff foes ff ff commen ff ff oman ff ff aoe [f ff ceo ff ff omar f ff ce ff ff ces fi cmc ff ff exes fff mee ff exe ff ff comme ff ff mmf comm fff come fff eommcms ff ff comme ff ff come ff meme ff 


Baked Eggs on Toast 


Slice bread one and a half inches thick and toast one side. 
Scoop out untoasted side of bread and break an egg into this . 
hollow, season with salt, butter and a dash of pepper. Place 
in oven and bake until eggs are set. Serve at once. 

Mrs. Epaar J. WicKER. 


Tomato Omelet 
1 medium size tomato. 3 eggs. 
Salt and pepper. 

Cut up tomato and cook in butter until thoroughly tender. 
Put butter in another pan and pour in beaten eggs, with salt 
and pepper added. When egg begins to set, pour tomatoes on 
top of half of it and turn other half over the tomatoes and let 
it remain in the pan just enough for edges to seal, and serve hot. 


Mrs. A. P. Hepricx. 


Pink Pickled Eggs 


Shell hard-boiled eggs, then drop into the vinegar in which 
beets have been pickled. Remove when colored a deep pink. 
These are pretty for a picnic lunch, or they may be cut length- 
wise and served on lettuce leaves, with mayonnaise dressing as 
a salad. Mrs. H. E. Guoren. 


16 













t 

& 

H 

' i 
pe 5 





miei PES * Res 


a 





ry ¢ 

t 

‘ ‘ i) 
FA uJ 

in r ¥ 

PAY A ut t . a 

: ae “ vie ¥ ) i 
bile ie 





* 
> 
2 
¥ 
as 
ee ee 


ieee eet aera 





i é F, 
P bs ur we r 
ayy + Tk eae! ; 4 em Soe Sa AS ; 
‘ 4 : “ei > ’ , ‘i 
4 Ly 
rR 4 . i 
4 PaL eX i ( ‘ 4 a 
, i af \e 
‘ao 
i s ett RY! f 








; if . 4 ra 
; an : ‘ ah af Pi ‘ 7 “ 5 
Pa et a Pui sieaer, >. Hee be Chicky at as ‘ , ; A, 
TheMtt : et my 7 no ae 5 I Si ; 
tobe’ ‘ aby 
MO a bee ni wit’ wurenaie 
pale " Mi —" i ” * , ™ 4 “Rt ‘. 7 ry " * ¥ . 1 lay 
. ; ¥ s % eT Ld _ bs . » | o 
“AP tsp Nea RS LOND ee tn Et cass ethene 
Ps OUUCITORRRORL Pr Gedy! ARES AY Pat MRR? + A 
rar ' ‘ Goer a BY an yi 5 ’ 


ch aw M4 hy iydutinge .- ‘eet a AOS ane te ds 


Li asaraile a 1M 
es en ee 4 
Px rf eh aehs 
be be ive 
. a sy 
° 


ae Da Waree cane a et Tae any 
fet Bes ii AR yt Lt hte 23 


Be BE eh a, diy pi 


ts a 
i 7 

th Healy 

ther aie We 
; 


Mae nex LM 
, 


et 





Where recipes call for Gelatine, use KNOX SPARKLING 
GELATINE 





Cheese and Egg Dish 


To one pound of cheese add six eggs. Cut up cheese, add 
eggs, scramble well together, serve while hot. 
Mrs. W. I. Wettons. 


Plain Omelet 


1 egg for each serving. 2 tablespoons milk. 
Salt and pepper to taste. 14 teaspoon of baking powder. 


1 teaspoon butter. 


Beat eggs slightly, add milk, baking powder, pepper and salt, 
and beat until ight. Put batter in pan. Let run evenly, pour 
in, and when puffed up, fold. Mrs. W. P. Berts. 


Egg Omelet 


Six eggs, beaten separately; to the yolks add salt and pepper 
and six tablespoonfuls of sweet milk; heat a tablespoonful of 
butter in a frying-pan, and when hot mix the whites with the 
yolks and cook.gently from five to ten minutes, or until a nice 


brown, and turn, or lap. Serve at once on a hot dish. 
3 Mrs. U. B. Atexanper. 


Hard-Boiled Eggs 


Put eggs in kettle or covered pan, and boil rapidly three 
minutes. Then remove to back of stove and let set in the 


water, which they were boiled in, for twenty minutes. 
Miss Ava CrowbeEr. 


Golden Rod Eggs 


3 eggs. Salt. 
6 slices of toast. Rhepper as 
Butter. Mayonnaise. 


Hard-boil the eggs, put the yolks through potato ricer, slice 
whites of eggs on toast, sprinkle whites with yolks as they come 


through ricer, and cover with mayonnaise. 
: Mrs. H. Bratz STevicK. 


Stuffed Eggs, Spanish Style 
Cut hard-boiled eggs in halves, lengthwise. Remove yolks 
and mash. Add finely chopped onion, finely chopped celery 


and chopped green or red pepper, using one-fourth teaspoon of 
each to one egg. Moisten with salad dressing. Refill whites 


with mixture, and press halves together. 


Mrs. H. E. Georce. 
a ally 


Dainty Recipes in each Knox Gelatine package 


Plain Egg Omelet 


4 eggs. 14 teaspoon salt. 
Few grains pepper. 4 tablespoons hot water. 


1 tablespoon butter. 


Separate yolks from whites, beat yolks until thick and lemon- 
like. Add salt, pepper and hot water. Beat whites until very 
stiff and dry, cutting and folding them in first mixture. Heat 
pan and butter sides and bottom; turn in mixture, spread 
evenly, place on stove where it will cook slowly, occasionally 
turning the pan. When well puffed and brown underneath, 
place pan in oven to finish cooking the top. It is cooked when 
it does not stick to the finger. Then fold together and serve. 

Mrs. H. E. Gaores. 


Deviled Eggs 


One-half dozen hard-boiled eggs, cut in halves and remove 
yolks. Mash yolks fine, mix with one tablespoon melted butter, 
one-half teaspoon mustard, little grated cheese and chopped 
pickles. Add enough vinegar to soften mixture; salt and pepper 
to taste. A little cold boiled ham, chopped fine, may be added, 
also. Mix all well and fill whites. 

Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 


18 


For Dainty, Delicious Desserts, use Knox Gelatine 





POULTRY AND MEATS 


Meat Loaf 
114 pounds round steak. 4 pound pork. 
rege) 1 cup bread crumbs. 
4 cup milk. 2 teaspoons salt. 
Butter size of a walnut. 2 medium size onions. 
1 sprig parsley. 14 sage leaf. 


Vg teaspoon black pepper. 


Grind meat and knead into a loaf, and sprinkle with flour. 
Bake two hours in a moderate oven. 


Mrs. A. P. Hepriox. 


Meat Loaf 
1 pound hamburg steak. 14 pound pork sausage. 
1 egg. 14 cup bread crumbs. 
4 cup potatoes chopped fine. 1% teaspoon salt. 
4 teaspoon pepper. 1 onion. 


Mix in egg, bread crumbs, potatoes, salt, pepper and finely 
chopped onion. Mold in loaf pan, place in moderate oven, bake 
about one hour. Baste with melted pork fat. Serve hot or 
cold. Mrs. S. M. Swan. 


Beef Loaf 


Two pounds beef and one pound pork. Grind in meat chop- 
per. Use one box crackers, five eggs and one-half cup butter. 
Crumble or grate crackers; mix all thoroughly. Salt to taste. 
Use one-fourth teaspoonful cayenne pepper and one scant tea- 
spoonful black pepper. Bake in a Liske roaster, with a little 
water, from three to four hours. Mrs. J. D. Rieean. 


CB 1h ht i Hee mt he ce ff me fH Hf fH of HH Hee HH HH aH Nm Hemme Fem 


e W., H LMS oe Ra NAT 
DEALER IN 


Fresh Meats, Fish, Oysters and Game 


Our Motto: “CLEANLINESS” 
Nowhere on earth does Cleanliness count more than ina market. Realiz- 
ing this we maintain a perfectly sanitary condition. 
QUALITY, ONLY THE FINEST 


If a clean market, clean market products, choicest of quality and right 
prices appeal to you, then BUY YOUR MEATS AT OUR MARKET. 


0 a at et et ee et et tt me 9 


OH eH ih he Ha mmm He Hm Hm 


ema pees ype NN NN em RH NESE 


KNOX GELATINE is highest quality and worth its price 





Meat Loaf 
1 pound of round steak. 2 sprigs of parsley. 
4 pound fresh pork. 1 tablespoon butter. 
14 cup bread crumbs. 14 teaspoon salt. 
1 onion. 14 teaspoon pepper. 


Grind steak, pork and onions in a food chopper. . Season 
with salt and pepper. Brown bread crumbs. Roll until crum- 
bled. Then mix into a loaf and place in pan half full of water. 
Cook in slow oven. When cold, slice and serve. 

Miss Jutta CoprEepGe. 


Meat Loaf 
11% pounds ground beef. 14 cup of bread crumbs or crackers. 
14 pound ground pork. 1 egg or more. 
14 pint of boiling water. 2 ounces of butter. 


Work all ingredients together, adding pepper and salt to 
taste. Mould into loaf and bake in moderate oven for one and 
one-half hours. Mrs. Frep ALLEN. 


Bewitched Veal 


3 pounds lean veal chopped fine Pepper and salt. 

14 pound fat salt pork chopped fine. 1 cup milk. 

Nutmeg. 3 eggs. 

Little onion. Small piece of butter. 


Mix all together, pressing firmly into a loaf. Cover with 
fine bread crumbs and bake two and one-half hours.. Baste 


often. Mrs. W. P. Bavuarp. 


Pot Roast 


Put one-half a cup of lard in pot and have it smoking hot. 
Put in roast and turn back and forth in lard for twenty min- 
utes; then cover with boiling water and cook until done. If 
desired, put onions on roast when cooking in the lard. 


Mrs. W. H. Harris. 


Beefsteak 


Remove gristle and bone, wash and beat well. Roll in flour 
and put in deep, boiling fat, adding salt after the blood has 
come to the surface; then fry slowly, with pan covered, until 
nicely browned on both sides. If you make the browned gravy 
with the meat still in the pan, the gravy will be better and the 
steak softer; but if desired dry, remove before making gravy. 

Mrs. U. B. ALexanper. 


20 


Each package of KNOX GELATINE makes FOUR PINTS of jelly 


Broiled Steak 


Wipe meat with damp cloth, trim off large pieces of fat, 
grease broiler and place meat on it. Broil over clear fire, turn- 
ing every few seconds for first minute to prevent juice from 
escaping. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Serve on hot platter, 
with “parsley butter.” 

Parsley Butter: Three tablespoons butter, one tablespoon 
lemon juice, one cup parsley (chopped). Cream butter, add 
lemon and chopped parsley. Mrs. R. B. Tempreton. 


Roast Beef 


Place meat in moderately hot oven, in just enough water to 
prevent sticking. Sprinkle with flour, salt and pepper. Cook 
slowly, and every few minutes basting, so as to brown evenly. 
Place boiled Irish potatoes around roast. A roast of about 
three or four pounds will require one and one-half hours to 
cook thoroughly. Mrs. R. B. Tempreton. 


Pork Roast 


Four pounds of pork loin. Wash, rub good with salt, put in 
roast-pan two cups water; turn occasionally while cooking. 
Three tablespoons of vinegar, one tablespoon of flour and one 
red pepper. Mix and pour over roast. Put back in oven five 
minutes. This serves fifteen. Mrs. E. A. Martin. 


Pork Chops 


Cook as you would chicken, and it will taste very much like 
it. Thoroughly salt and pepper each chop separately. With a 
small portion fat go over each piece again. Dredge each piece 
with flour. Cover, and when brown on both sides half fill the 
pan with water. When it begins to stew, lower the fire and 
cook at least half an hour. Miss Mitprep H. Siru. 


Croquettes 


Melt two tablespoons butter in a saucepan, add two table- 
_ spoons corn starch, one pint scalded milk added slowly. Stir 
well. Add one beaten egg. Add this to the following: two cups 
chopped meat, one teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon celery, little 
pepper and onion juice, one teaspoon chopped parsley. Shape, 


th Il in egg, again in crumbs, and fry in hot 
Tard aaa aie Mrs. W. P. Baviarp. 


21 


KNOX GELATINE solves the problem of ‘‘What to have for 
dessert”’ 


Fried Chicken 


Wash chicken in water having a bit of soda; rinse quickly, 
not keeping chicken long in water. Sprinkle with one rounded 
tablespoon salt and a bit of pepper. Roll in flour, ‘put in fry- 
ing-pan, having one rounded tablespoon fat, smoking hot. Turn 
immediately, cover, and cook in moderate oven until tender. 
Under favorable conditions it will be browned on both sides. 

For steak use only a small quantity of fat. Do not salt and 
pepper until tender. When cooked as much as you wish, take 
from oven, butter and pepper and sprinkle with salt. 


Mrs. D. N. Cavriness. 


Chicken Roast 


1 five pound hen. Salt and pepper. 
Flour. Dressing and lard. 


Prepare the hen, soak one hour or more in cold salt water, 
take out, drain well and wipe with dry cloth. Salt, pepper and 
rub with lard, and sprinkle with flour after you have added the 
dressing. Put in fireless cooker at 8 o’clock, and when you 
return from church Sunday your chicken is ready to serve. 
Lift the chicken out and make gravy. Serve hot. 

Mrs. J. B. Martin. 


Baked Hen 


After ready for cooking, put hen on to cook, with water 
enough to cover it, and keep covered well to retain steam. 
When tender, remove and use broth from parboiling for dress- 
ing. 

Dressing: One quart toasted bread crumbs moistened with 
broth from chicken, four tablespoons of butter, beaten yolks of 
two eggs, salt and pepper to taste. Add oysters or celery if 
desired, and bake until brown and tender. 


Mrs. M. M. Murcutison. 


Hungarian Goulash 


One pound round steak, cut into one-inch squares; one pound 
veal steak, cut into one-inch squares; one pound pork steak, 
cut into one-inch squares; one green pepper, chopped; two 
medium-sized onions. Brown onion and pepper in three table- 
spoons hot butter; add meat, stirring it, in order to sear all 
sides; then add one quart boiling water, three tablespoons 
stewed tomatoes. Salt and paprika to taste. Cook slowly two 
hours, then thicken the liquid slightly and pour over hot baking- 
powder biscuit on platter. Mrs. H. E. Groren. 

22 


KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE—no bother—no trouble—no 
squeezing lemons 





Chicken Pie 


Cut the chicken in pieces and boil nearly tender. Make a 
rich crust, with an egg or two to make it light. Layers of ham 
and hard-boiled eggs will add greatly, but can be omitted if 
desired. Place chicken and pastry in pan, add butter, salt and 
pepper, and cover with broth and top crust; bake. 

Mrs. U. B. Anexanpmr. 
Chicken Pie 

Clean chicken and cut into pieces. Sprinkle with salt, and 
set aside for one hour. For pastry use one and one-half cup of 
plain flour, salt, one tablespoon of lard; make with water. Roll 
and cut as for pastry. Line the bottom of a medium-size pan 
with strips of pastry. Place a layer of chicken and pieces of 
butter on each; another layer of pastry and chicken, until all 
the chicken is used. Sprinkle with pepper. Use half pound of 


butter. Fill the pan with water. Cook in slow oven until 
chicken is done. Miss Jutta CoppEnDGE. 


Chicken Croquettes 


1 cup of bread crumbs. 2 well-beaten eggs. 
3 cups chopped cooked chicken. Salt and pepper to taste. 


To the cold cooked chicken add salt, pepper, bread crumbs 
and beaten eggs. If necessary, moisten with milk or chicken 
gravy. Shape into cones, or balls; dip in bread crumbs, beaten 
eggs, and in bread crumbs again. Fry until brown in hot fat, 
or bake in hot oven. Miss Jura CoppEpGeE. 


For Using Left Over Beef 


4 large or 6 small white potatoes. 2 large or 4 small onions. 
Use scraps of beef on hand—not over | pint. 


Butter, salt and pepper to taste. Out all in moderately 
small pieces, put in pan, pour gravy over; if none, use table- 
spoon butter, enough hot water to fill in. Bake in oven till 
potatoes and onions are done. Mrs. W. P. Betts. 


Dried Beef 


If beef is very salty, freshen in a little hot water. Make 
cream: gravy with one tablespoonful of flour lightly browned in 
one tablespoonful of butter; add slowly about a pint of sweet 
milk; when it boils, pour over beef, and serve very hot. This 
cream gravy is very good with pork chops or fried ham. Can 


use some gravy instead of butter in either of these if desired. 
Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 


23 


Use KNOX GELATINE—the Four-pint package 





Creamed Ham on Toast 


1 tablespoon butter or other fat. 3 tablespoons flour. 


1 cup milk. 3 tablespoons prepared salad dress- 
5 slices toast. ing. 
Paprika. 1 cup chopped cooked ham. 


Melt butter and add flour. When well mixed, add milk and 
bring to boiling point, stirring constantly. Add ham, and cook 
three minutes. Remove from fire, add salad dressing, and pour 


over slices of toast. Sprinkle with paprika, and serve. 
Mrs. H. E. Gores. 


Round Steak Roast With Dressing 


Select a nice round steak (do not order over phone) ; have it 
cut thin. Wipe with a damp cloth. Make dressing same as for 
chicken. Put on the steak, roll up and tie with clean cord; 
rub butter or lard over the outside; sprinkle with flour, and 
cook in fireless cooker from two and one-half to three hours. 
Season inside and out of roast with salt and pepper. 


Mrs. J. B. Martin. 


Toad In A Hole 


1 pound round steak. 1 cup flour. 
1 pint sweet milk. 2 eggs. 
Salt and pepper. / 

Beat eggs very light, add milk and pour on the flour gradu- 
ally, beating smooth. Butter a two-quart pan, put ground meat 
in the pan and season well. Pour batter over the meat, and 
bake one hour in a moderate oven, and serve hot. 


Mrs. A. P. Hepricx. 


Pork Sausage 


_ If you are not convenient to a market, buy fresh pork sausage 
in quantities and fry. Place in jars and cover with grease. 
When ready for it it is only necessary to heat it, and will be 
as good as fresh. To brown the gravy add a few grains of 
sugar, or a little sprinkle of flour, or pour in a little boiled 
coffee. Mrs. U. B. Anexanper. 


Second Missouri 


1 pound hamburg steak. Potatoes. 
Onions. 14 can tomatoes. 


Put in layers, season with pepper, salt and melted butter, 
with a little parsley, bake in the oven two and one-half hours. 
Mrs. H. E. Georer. 
24 





KNOX GELATINE makes a transparent, tender, quivering jelly 


Fried Frogs’ Legs 


6 pairs frogs’ legs. Fine bread crumbs. 
1 egg. Salt and pepper. 


Skin and wash the legs in cold water and dry them on a 
clean towel. Season with salt and pepper and a little lemon 
juice. Beat up the egg slightly, and dip the legs into the beaten 
egg, then into the fine crumbs, and fry in hot fat for about five 
minutes. Drain on plain paper. <A wire frying basket is best 
to fry them in. Serve hot. Miss RutH WHatuHeERty. 


Roast Rabbit 


Place in pot and cover with cold water. When it begins 
to boil add about one-half teaspoonful soda and let boil about 
fifteen minutes, drain off water, and nearly cover again with 
boiling water, add salt and boil until tender. Put in pan or 
roaster, sprinkle with flour and pepper, and add enough liquor 
to baste well until browned. Make a flour or corn starch 
thickening for gravy. Mrs. U. B. ALExaNnpeEr. 


Smothered Chicken 


Take two young chickens, frying size or a little larger; split 
down the backs; rub into them salt and pepper and lay them in 
a small baking pan, put in water enough to cover. A heaping 
tablespoon of butter, cut into bits; cover with another pan and 
put into the stove, let cook until done. Take large tablespoon 
of butter, some red pepper, juice from the two chickens, one- 
half cup vinegar, if you like it, cook until thick, pour over the 
chickens and let brown. Miss Neviiz STEIN. 


Pot Roast 


Wipe off roast with a wet cloth, put some fat in a pan and 
sear over, browning all surface, put in a pot with one cup of 
hot water, cover closely, cook till tender, seasoning after first 
half hour of cooking. If water cooks out, add a small quantity. 

Mrs. W. P. Berts. 


Stuffing—Chestnut 


2 cups chestnuts. 34 teaspoon salt. 
1/3 cup melted butter. _ 1 teaspoon pepper. 
1 cup cracker crumbs. 34 cup milk or cream. 
Cook the nuts in salted water until done. Drain, mash and 
add all together. Mrs. W. L. Nevins. 


25 


FOUR separate Desserts or Salads from one package of Knox 
Gelatine 





Cream Chicken 


Dress young hen and cut as for frying. Let stand over night 
in salt. Next morning boil gently until tender. Remove piece 
by piece from the liquor. Now add to the liquor a cup of milk 
in which a little flour has made smooth. Add a teaspoon of 
celery seed, a sprig or two of parsley, a salt spoon of white 
pepper, and a hard-boiled egg mashed very fine, a tablespoon 
of butter. Let boil, and then pour over the chicken, which 
should be already placed on toast all ready on the serving dish. 

Mrs. W. L. Nevins. 


Roast Turkey 


Select a turkey with a firm flesh and yellow skin. Dress, 
clean, stuff and tie wings and legs close to body. Place on its 
back on a rack in dripping pan or roaster. Rub the entire 
surface with salt and butter and flour. Place in medium hot 
oven, and when well browned reduce the heat, and baste every 
fifteen or twenty minutes (if not roasted in a self-basting pan). 
A ten pound turkey requires but three hours. 

: Mrs. W. L. Nevins. 


Meat Birds and Tomato Sauce 


114 pounds round steak. 4 slices of bacon. 
1 onion, chopped fine. 2 cups boiling water. 


3 tablespoons of butter or drippings. 1 tablespoon of flour. 


Pound the steak and cut it into pieces four inches square. 
Lay a piece of bacon and a little onion on each square, roll 
up and fasten with string or toothpicks. Melt the butter or 
drippings, then brown the steak in this, sprinkle on the flour 
and salt and pepper to season, according to taste. Add the 
boiling water, cover and simmer two hours. Remove strings 
or toothpicks before serving. After the meat has been taken 
out of the pan heat a can of tomato soup in the gravy and 
pour over the meat birds and serve at once. 


Miss Mary D. Gores. 


Pork Corn-Meal Mush 


1 pound pork. 2 quarts water. 
1 heaping pint corn meal. Salt to suit taste. 


_ Grind meat through course grinder and boil fifteen minutes 
in salted water, add corn meal slowly, stirring constantly, cook 
over a slow fire one and one-fourth hours. Wet bread pan in 
cold water and pour in mush. When thoroughly cold cut in 
slices and fry in hot fat. Mrs. H. E. Gores. 


26 


Phone Us for Service 


iideal Cleaning Company | 


Dyers and Cleaners 


Office, 409 Fayetteville St. Phones 262-296 
Plant, 402 Glenwood Ave. Raleigh, N. C. 


F011 ee tm Hh ea em Hho 


199 coms Bj] emacs fff come fi Jf eee ff cme fff commen fi} $f commen ff} am fff commen ff mmm i | ecm ff ff cece ff ff meee ff ff mee ff f] ne fff comer ff ff come |) ff eee ff | ee ff |] oem ff | orem fj || ee} ego 


UO comme ff ff comm fff mmm ff femmes if femme fff meme fy ff mmm ff ff emcee ff ff cme ff ff mmm ff ff comme ff ff mmc ff ff mem ff ff ere ff ff ames ff | mmm ff ff emcee ff ff meme ff ff meee ff eee ff | em ff] oem ff ef 


“We Cover the Roof” | 


Raleigh Roofing & Cornice Company | 


| 
| 
Incorporated | 

Sheet Metal Workers, Roofers, Ventilating | 
Warm Air Heating 

| 


only high class labor used Call us for requirements 
i No job too small or too large J. E. STEVICK, Pres. & Gen. Mgr. 


He nf He mm ee He me mg Eg 


OF, eth th eth ee tt {ee he Nt HH Nh HN Hh NH OSD 
a... 1 eee 9 ff ee ff ff ff ff me ff coe ff ff me em fH ee 9 ff ef ff ee em fH em fH ee HH ml ey 


poe Jewelry wen’ prices | 


A Superb Stock of 
Diamonds and Watches ; 


| 
| 
Flat and Hollow Ware in = 
Sterling and Sheffield | 
| 
| 
i 


FINE CUT GLASS AND JEWELRY 





OF9 hem me me Fe HN mH Hm Hm Hh 





Repairing a Specialty | 
(Hf ema fff m9 1 eof if ff Hf re | || fmm ff <  emm ff  —e 1  F HB m  m  NH  teeH sme H m oo 
iS ieasinu it) fh he Hm fh Hh NH NN HH Ht mm Het | 
| R. W. KENNISON J. A. ARCHER 
| ® = 
| Kennison & Archer | 
| 5 
General Contractors 
Phone 627 | 
j 801 Citizens Nat. Bank Bldg. RALEIGH, N. C. 
$6 1 tn tt tm cm ff me mm me HN ee HH HH em 1H ee tome HEH meme cfs 


KNOX stands for Quality and Quantity in Gelatine 





VEGETABLES 
Tomato Toast 
3 firm tomatoes. 6 slices smoked bacon. 
6 slices of toast. 2 cups milk. 
2 tablespoons flour. 1 onion. 


Salt and pepper. 


Fry bacon and put on plate. Mince onion and fry in same 
fat. Cut tomatoes in rather thick slices and fry in same fat 
until slightly brown but not soft enough to break. Butter toast 
and lay in platter, piling tomatoes on top. Set in oven to 
keep hot. Stir flour into pan gravy and slowly add milk, stir 
until perfectly smooth, season with salt and pepper and pour 
over the tomatoes. Lay slices of bacon on top. The onion may 
be omitted. Miss Mary D. Groree. 


Hot Slaw 


One quart cabbage cut fine. One and one-half tablespoons 
of meat fryings or lard and butter. One-fourth cup vinegar (if 
strong dilute with two-third cup of water), two tablespoons of 
sugar, salt and pepper to taste. Cook about one-half hour, or 
until tender. Then add one egg beaten to which has been 
added one and one-half tablespoons of sour cream or one-half 
cup sweet milk. Place over fire to thicken by adding a little 
flour and water mixed together. Mrs. H. E. Groner. 


Squash 


Wash, cook whole until tender, drain thoroughly, press out 
all water. Place in pan with two tablespoons of white bacon 
fat, cut one onion, salt and pepper, fry until light brown. 

Miss Jutta CopprEpes. 


Stuffed Potatoes 


Bake as many potatoes as desired. Cut them in half, take 
out all the meat, mash and add two tablespoons butter, the yolks 
of two eggs, one-half cup cream, little salt. Refill the skins 
with the mixture and bake ten minutes. 


Mrs. W. P. Baruarp. 


Irish Potatoes With Roast 


Boil potatoes in their skins until about done, peel, and when 
your roast 1s almost done, lay the potatoes in pan and baste 
as you do the meat, until all is nicely browned. Arrange around 
meat on platter. Mrs. U. B. AtEexanpeEr. 


28 


Desserts can be made in a short time with KNOX GELATINE 


Asparagus on Toast 


Cook asparagus in boiling, salted water from ten to fifteen 
minutes; or until tender. If canned asparagus, heat contents 
in salted water about five minutes. Drain off water, place on 
toast, and pour over a sauce made from two tablespoons melted 
butter to which two tablespoons best grade flour, one-half tea- 
spoon salt and dash of pepper are added. Into this pour one 
cup of heated milk and cook together until the flour thickens 
the mixture. Mrs. G. C. Henson. 


Asparagus 


Cut off stalk as far down as brittle. Wash, scrape ends. Re- 
tie in bundles for cooking. Cook in boiling water until tender, 
leave tips out of water first ten minutes. Add salt before 
taking from water, season with butter and pepper or white 
sauce. Miss Jurtia CoppEpcGeE. 


Boston Baked Beans 


1 quart dried white beans. VY pound fat pork. 
2 tablespoons sugar. 2 tablespoons molasses. 
1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon mustard. 


Soak beans over night in cold water. In the morning drain 
and cook in boiling water until skins crack, when tested by 
removing a few from the water. When tender, drain and put ° 
in a bean pot. Bury pork in top of beans and cover the 
whole with boiling water mixed with sugar, molasses, salt and 
mustard, cover and bake slowly four hours, add boiling water as 
it boils away. Mrs. S. M. Swan. 


Lima Beans 


Shell beans just before using, rinse in cold water. Put into 
saucepan; cover with boiling water and_ boil until tender. 
Drain and add seasoning and melted butter. 


Mrs. W. H. Harris. 


Potato Puff 


Left over potatoes may be used as follows: 

Two cups of hot or cold mashed potatoes, two eggs, three 
tablespoons of cream or milk, one tablespoon of butter, salt 
and pepper to taste. If the potatoes are cold heat them; add 
butter, cream, yolks of eggs, and seasoning, stir over the fire 
until well mixed. Take from the fire, add carefully the well 
beaten whites of eggs; grease the dish, pour in the potatoes 
and bake in a quick oven a nice brown. Mrs. H. I. Guass. 


29 


A KNOX GELATINE Dessert or Salad is attractive and appetizing 





Potato Chips 


Slice half a dozen good sized white potatoes about one-eighth 
inch thick, salt to taste, or if bacon drippings are used they 
will not need salt, place in hot grease and turn until crisp. 
Drain on oiled paper or wire rack. They are delicious served 
hot, or may be served the same as Saratoga chips. 

Miss Rutx Rieean. 


Sweet Potato Croquettes 


Pare as many as needed and boil in salted water; when done 
mash; add salt and little butter, flour and beaten egg or two. 
Form into croquettes and roll in flour, fry in hot lard. Sugar 
may be added if desired. Mrs. U. B. Atexanver. 


Fried Irish Potatoes 


Boil until tender in salted water. If very large cut in about 
eight pieces, if medium, four, roll in flour and fry until evenly 
browned all over, adding more salt, if necessary, and pepper. 

Mrs. U. B. Arexanper. 


Macaroni Stew 


1144 pound macaroni. 1 large can tomatoes. 
1 large onion. 1 pound round steak. 


Put steak in deep stewpan with two tablespoons of hot lard, 
let cook on both sides until nearly tender, add tomatoes and 
onion, about half pint boiling water, cook about ten minutes 
then add macaroni and cook slowly until macaroni is done, 
add more water if needed, season with pepper and salt to 
taste. Serve hot. When nearly done remove steak from the 


pan. Mrs. S. M. Swan. 
Corn Pudding 
1 can corn. 2 tablespoons butter. 
1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
14 teaspoon pepper. Tablespoon flour. 
2 eggs. Corn starch. 
2 cups milk. 


Place corn in mixing bowl. Stir in salt, pepper, sugar, 
slightly beaten eggs, milk and butter. When mixed pour into 
a greased baking dish. Bake in a slow oven until firm. Six 
ears fresh corn may be used instead of canned corn. 

Miss Jur1a Coprrpes. 


30 


Try the KNOX GELATINE recipes found in this book 





Corn Pudding 


1 can corn. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 
2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Large piece of butter. 


Mix all well. Place in pan. Let bake in slow oven until 
thick. Mrs. W. F. Raeranp. 


Baked Potatoes 


Medium size potatoes. Wash well with brush. Place in 
hot oven and bake forty minutes or until fork can pierce through 
skins and soft. Water or steam should be allowed to escape as 
this causes potatoes to be soggy. Serve with a little cayenne 
pepper and salt with grated cheese over them. 

Mrs. R. B. TeEMPLeTon. 


Stuffed Tomatoes 


Six tomatoes, one cup cold cooked meat, two tablespoons 
butter, salt and pepper to taste, one egg, one-half cup bread 
erumbs. Out a thin slice from stem end of tomatoes, take 
out seeds and pulp, mix chopped meat, melted butter, salt 
and pepper, add slightly beaten egg, mix. Fill tomatoes, 
sprinkle top with bread crumbs. Bake in a hot oven until 


tomatoes are tender. Serve six persons. 
Mrs. S. M. Swan. 


Creamed Irish Potatoes 


Let water come to the boiling point before adding potatoes 
which have been previously pared. Cook until tender, pour 
potatoes into colander, shake in the air two or three times or 
enough to partly cool potatoes. Warm milk, as potatoes are 
mashed gradually add the milk (do not use enough milk to 
make potatoes thin). After thoroughly mashing, beat potatoes 
with a spoon as you would cake, do this until they are very, 
very light. As potatoes are mashed add butter. Salt and pep- 
per to taste. Mrs. H. I. Grass. 


Escalloped Sweet Potatoes 


Use cold boiled potatoes and slice. Arrange in alternate 
layers with a can of mushrooms, season each layer with butter, 
salt and pepper. Fill dish nearly full; then pour over one 
cupful of good cream. Cover with buttered bread crumbs and 


bake in a moderate oven for twenty or thirty minutes. 
Mrs. W. F. Raeianp. 


31 


KNOX GELATINE—Economy with highest Quality 


Cabbage 


Chop fine and cover with cold water. Fry the grease out 
of the bacon and pour into pot, or heat whatever grease that 
is to be used, and lift cabbage from water and put into hot 
grease. The water that remains on the cabbage will be suffi- 
cient to begin with, but more hot water will be required as it 
boils down. Season with salt and pepper. A little bit of 
sugar will sometimes improve the flavor. Cabbage will cook 
this way in about half the time it takes to boil in the regular 
way, and is more delicious. Mrs. U. B. ALExanpeEr. 


Kgg Plant 


Cut in one-quarter inch slices. Soak in cold salt water. 
Drain dry, roll in flour, dip in one well beaten egg, sprinkle 
with pepper and fry in hot fat. Miss Jutta CopPEDGE. 


Carrots 


Shee lengthwise or crosswise rather thin as it takes a long 
time for them to cook. Boil until tender, add about one cup 
hot milk after draining off water, two tablespoonsful butter, 
very little salt and pepper, a little flour thickening or the beaten 
yolk of one or two eggs, stew all together a few minutes and 
serve hot. Mrs. U. B. Atexanper. 


Beets 


Wash, cook whole in boiling water until tender, peel and 
slice. When cool season with teaspoon of sugar, salt and 
vinegar. Miss Jur1a Copprper. 


Hash In Green Peppers 


Remove seeds from peppers and drop into boiling water for 
five minutes. Remove and fill with any kind of hash. Sprinkle 
with cracker crumbs and bake one-half hour. Keep pan moist 
with hot water in which is a little seasoning. 


Mrs. P. B. Macruper. 


Peas 


If dry, soak over night, or parboil in a little soda water, 
drain and add fresh hot water. If green the one boiling is 
all that 1s needed. Boil meat with them or season with meat 
gravy, salt and pepper to taste. A grating of nutmeg will 
improve their flavor. Mrs. U. B. ArexanpEr. 


32 




















ane ! 
i ‘ 
4%) 3; * 
27 
y 
hs ‘s ‘vid / if ; Ny 
rd é 1 C aie uy f q 
he ie A Game, Pap ipa Fs Wye ea ete 
, . ‘ ) 
gag sh rai payin oe ai PAE A i let “th Pe sth atid ya EP 
Bet ini et? ne a Ay 
ex" Vhs M4 Bae A he? Yh Soi te 
ety sa et oi eh fay 4, 
; " i 
j ‘aN : ahs, { 
I if ie uy pit hae 
TW, iyit ; 
4 ee F j ; 
ad lie ' 
i aM Dr fa. Saha 
1 . ; 
be uy PM ee th 
i a ‘ { 
jpee} 
ste ih 
by rin rl if 
i { | 
i ‘ ; {ei 
i Hy i 
y : Ci Ay 
nM } | y Pe ite ash i " d 
* ty 
i Ay 
v itt FARM RUE No tat } 
ia) 
y j } l 
3 hai t, ANS abd ue : Y 
4 ie ‘ : y j i \ f 
ee ee aT ; is 
5 ; f 2 ' 
HED i se ey, Ait, > i ! ; : 
. Th! ss \. i 
ye brat om : ‘ is ; 3 
4 ait RAPP ch Baty . wn Fite Wh > Pith mo Oey 
' 3 f : . } hs 
nf po pS ia On Ta a rac Said al j i 
eed sie iE to: i a) Rite ate ith mia ian 3 


eA las ase 
Hei ; . Paseo Sut We aN) RLaY e's Oh 


iy . 





an i 
ST ice Shee 





bay ea ae ilk, ; wal 
} iets ne inh iy Late ea aoa a 
PAL ORY er eee aa i. 24 





bal ae Busca et 





ae ie, i, ve - ey ia Wie A } 
Ls, vhs 4% \ i) a 





Naowas 
aT ? 


aly Piatt 
es | ae 
es tans 





KNOX GELATINE is the one dessert for all appetites 


Boiled Corn 


Husk corn, removing all silks. Put corn into fresh boiling 
water to cover, and boil rapidly for five minutes. Remove 
from water and place on platter on which napkin has been 
spread, covering corn with ends of napkin. Serve immediately. 


Mrs. W. H. Harris. 
Candied Potatoes (Sweet) 


6 medium size potatoes. 4 cup water. 
14 cup sugar. 2 tablespoons butter. 


A few cloves. 
Peel and slice potatoes and arrange in buttered pan. Make 
a syrup of sugar, water and butter. Pour over top of potatoes 
and bake fifteen minutes. Miss Jura CoppEpes. 


Cold Slaw 


Wash cabbage, cut into quarters, and then slice very thin; 
allow to stand in cold water thirty minutes; drain well and 
cover with boiled or French dressing. 

Mrs. W. H. Harris. 


Stewed Tomatoes 


1 can tomatoes. 6 tablespoons sugar. 
1 cup bread crumbs. 1 tablespoon butter. 
Pepper and salt. 


Miss Mitprep H. Smiru. 


Irish Potatoes 

Pare and boil until soft, drain off water, mash well, add 
salt, pepper and butter to taste. Pour in about one cup or 
enough hot milk to make soft, and add two or three well beaten 
raw eggs. The heat of the potatoes will cook them sufficiently, 
and it will make a light, rich looking dish. These are also 
very good baked in a greased pan until a light brown. 

Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 


Boiled Rice 
1 cup rice. 6 cups boiling water. 

| 1 teaspoon salt. 

Put the rice in a strainer and wash thoroughly under run- 
ning water. Heat the water until boiling rapidly, add the salt 
and then drop in the rice a little at a time. Boil. rapidly, 
uncovered, for 20 minutes, adding more water as the rice swells 
and absorbs it. There should be enough water on the rice all 
the time to keep it moving. When done, drain through a strainer 
and rinse with boiling water. Shake gently for a minute or two 


to drain and dry, then pile lightly in an uncovered dish. 
Miss Mary D. Grorce. 
3 398 


KNOX GELATINE is economical—one package makes FOUR 
PINTS of jelly 





SALADS AND SALAD DRESSINGS 


Asparagus Salad 


Drain and rinse stalks of canned asparagus, cut ring of 
brilliant red pepper one-third inch wide. Place three or four 
stalks in each ring. Arrange on lettuce and serve with French 
dressing to which has been added one-half tablespoon tomato 
catsup. Miss Lovrne Murcaison. 


Fruit Salad 


Cut shredded grapefruit in pieces about three-fourths inch 
thick. Cut slice of pineapple in one-half inch cubes. Marinate 
each separately. Drain and add a few marshmallows cut in 
small pieces, and a few shredded almonds. Serve on lettuce 
leaf with mayonnaise, garnish with a maraschino cherry. 

Miss Lovint Murcuison. 


Boiled Salad Dressing 


¥ tablespoon salt. 1% tablespoons sugar. 
1 teaspoon mustard. 4 tablespoon flour. 

A little pepper. 1g cup vinegar. 

2 eggs. 34 cup milk. 


1 tablespoon butter. 


Mix dry ingredients, add vinegar and beaten egg yolks and 
mix; add milk and butter. Cook until thick and smooth. Take 
from fire and add beaten egg whites. Cool and serve. It is 
better to use double boiler. Mrs. W. H. Harris. 


Pineapple Salad 


One can sliced pineapple, cut in small pieces, one cup of 
walnut meats or pecan meats, mix all together with cooked 
cream dressing and serve on tender lettuce leaves. Serve cold. 


Bird’s Nest Salad 


Shred white cabbage very fine and arrange like nests on 
individual salad plates. In the center of each nest place the 
unbroken yolk of a hard boiled egg, dress with mayonnaise 
and garnish with pimentoes and whites of the eggs chopped fine. 

Mrs. H. E. Grores. 


34 


KNOX GELATINE is measured ready for use—two envelopes in 
each package 


Banana Salad 


Use large ripe bananas. Cut into halves. Roll into chopped 
English walnuts, serve on lettuce and pour salad dressing on 


top. Mrs. J. E. Rupy. 


Fruit Salad 


Put layers of bananas, oranges, grated cocoanut and pine- 


apple in a dish. Sweeten and let stand a while before serving. 
Mrs. J. E. Rupy. 


Salad Dressing 


Mix Break in 
1% teaspoon salt. 1 egg and beat vigorously a few 
1 teaspoon sugar. seconds. 
1 teaspoon dry mustard Pour in 
Pinch of pepper. 1 tablespoon wesson oil and beat a 
Add 1 tablespoon of water. few seconds, then add 2 cups of 
Stir, then add 1 tablespoon lemon the oil and beat until it thickens. 


Juice or vinegar. 


Mrs. P. B. Macruper. 


Chicken Salad 


Boil chicken until tender and cut in small pieces, add celery 
chopped fine, two boiled eggs, a few pieces of pickle, if desired, 
add one cup mayonnaise and season with salt and pepper. 

Mrs. R. B. Tempreton. 


Chicken Salad 


4 or 5 pound chicken. 1 big stalk celery. 
Pepper and salt. 1 pint mayonnaise. 


Cook chicken until real tender, dice chicken and celery, add 
pepper, salt and mayonnaise and serve on lettuce or as sand- 


wishes. Mrs. W. Il. WELLONS. 


Cold Slaw Dressing 


34 cup vinegar. 1 egg. 
1 dash cayenne pepper. 2 teaspoons sugar. 
1 pinch mustard and salt. Lump of butter size of an egg. 


Beat egg and butter together, then add vinegar and other 
ingredients. Set over fire, stir constantly until it reaches the 
boiling point and becomes thick. Mrs. T. T: WELions. 


35 


See that the name KNOX is on each package of Gelatine you buy 





Orange-Pecan Salad 


1 banana. 14 cup pecan-meats. 
2 oranges. Lettuce. 


French dressing. 


Remove skin from banana, cut in quarters lengthwise and 
again crosswise and roll in pecan meats, finely chopped. Peel 
oranges, cut in slices crosswise, and remove the center core. 
Insert a cube of banana in center of each slice. Arrange on a 
bed of lettuce, sprinkle over remainder of pecans and French 
dressing. This will make eight portions. 

Miss Ruth WEatTHERLY. 


Relish | 


Cut lettuce in small strips. Dice some sweet pickle cucum- 
bers and mix. Serve with mayonnaise. Chili sauce served 
over lettuce is a pleasing relish. Mrs. W. P. Betts. 


Cream Dressing 


2 teaspoons mustard. 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoon salt. 14 cup vinegar. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 11% cup sweet milk. 
2 teaspoons flour. 1 teaspoon butter. 


Boil all together. 
Mrs. W. L. Nevins. 


Pineapple Dressing 


1 cupful of pineapple juice. 2 eggs. 
34 cupful sugar. Vg cupful cream, whipped. 
1 tablespoonful flour. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. 


Heat the pineapple juice until just warm. Blend together 
the flour and butter, add the egg yolks beaten and the sugar, 
and then the egg whites beaten stiff. Pour the warm pine- 
apple juice into this, place in the top of a double boiler and 
cook until thick. Cool and add the whipped cream. 

Miss RutH WeatuHerty. 


Mayonnaise 
4 teaspoon salt. Cayenne pepper to taste. 
1 egg. 1 tablespoon lemon juice or vinegar. 
V4 teaspoon mustard. 1 cup Wesson oil. 


Put whole egg in slightly warm bowl with dry ingredients, 
add a little oil and beat with an egg beater until thoroughly 
mixed, add remainder of oil in about three equal parts, beat- 
ing after each addition. 


36 


Free cook book offer in each package of Knox Gelatine 


Mayonnaise Dressing 


1 teaspoon mustard. 1 egg (yolk). 

1 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons lemon juice. 
1 teaspoon powdered sugar. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

A few grains cayenne. 11% cups olive oil. 


Mix the dry ingredients, add the egg yolk, and when well 
beaten add one-half teaspoon vinegar. Add a drop or two 
of olive oil, stir constantly. Continue adding oil a few drops 
at a time as the mixture thickens and becomes of uniform 
consistency. When the mixture becomes quite thick add lemon 
juice or vinegar alternately with the oil, until all is used, 
always beating the mixture. Miss RutH WHATHERLY. 


Mayonnaise II 


1 egg. Juice of 1 lemon or 4 tablespoons 
¥ teaspoon salt. vinegar. 


2 cups olive oil. 


Put egg with vinegar or lemon juice and seasoning into bowl, 
beating with rotary egg beater. Add oil, a tablespoonful or 
more at a time, beating constantly. Well covered, this mayon- 
naise will keep for three or four weeks. Miss Maze Day. 


Fruit Salad Dressing No. 1 


2 level tablespoons flour. | 1 egg or 2 yolks. 
2 level tablespoons pulverized sugar. 


Beat eggs well, add juice of one lemon, if not enough to 
make one-half cup, add a little cold water, pinch of salt, boil 
and cool. Beat and add one cup whipped cream, if too thick 
add more cream. Mrs. H. E. Gzoree. 


Fruit Salad 


Arrange slices of pineapple on the lettuce, and on each slice 
put half a canned peach, hollow side up. Fill the hollow with 
fruit salad dressing No. 1, and on top place a maraschino 
cherry. A pastry tube may be used and the dressing put on 
in fancy designs. Miss Mary D. Guzoree. 


Potato Salad 


Boil with jackets on about eight white potatoes, allow these 
to cool before peeling, then when cool peel and dice, into the 
potatoes chip fine two or three sweet, green peppers and one 
small onion, salt to taste, when thoroughly chilled add enough 
mayonnaise to mix it well. Celery can_be used instead of the 
peppers. Mrs. W. R. Dorsett. 


37 


Knox Sparkling Gelatine makes dainty desserts for dainty people 





Fruit Salad 
3 oranges. 2 grapefruit. 
2 apples. 1 banana. 


1 small can pineapple. 


Remove skin and fibre from oranges and grapefruit and pare 
apples and banana. Cut them, with pineapple into small pieces, 
mix all together and let stand to blend. Drain, mix with any 
good salad dressing. 


Fruit Salad 


There are many delicious fruit salads but the following 
combinations are very good: 

Quantities in proportion to number to be served: 

Apples, oranges and bananas all sliced up together with salad 
dressing, pineapple, pears and white grapes, seeded, with mayon- 
naise. 

Apples, celery and nuts, or sliced bananas lengthwise in 
halves covered with dressing and sprinkled with ground peanuts. 
Each to be served on crisp lettuce leaves. Nuts may be added 
to either one. 


SALAD DRESSING 


Beat two whole eggs until light, add two and one-half table- 
spoons vinegar, one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon sugar and 
one teaspoon butter, cook until it thickens, cool. Take as much 
cream as you have dressing, whip stiff and add to dressing. 
This is good with almost any fruit salad, but some are better 


with mayonnaise. Mrs. U. B. AtexanpeEr. 
Fruit Salad. 

3 tablespoonsful Knox’s gelatine. Y cup cold water. 

1 cup boiling water. 21% cups gingerale. 

3 tablespoons sugar. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 


Dash of salt 
When it begins to congeal add: 


1 cup cherries. _ 14 cup celery (cut fine). 
1 cup chopped pineapple. Y4 cup nuts, chopped fine. 


Serves eight. 


Mrs. J. E. Sawyer. 
Potato Salad 


Six medium sized potatoes, pared and cut in thin slices. Cook 
till tender in salted water. Mash potatoes and season with pep- 
per, celery seed or onion chopped fine. Stir in yoke of one egg 
and mix thoroughly. Garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg. 

Mrs. J. T. Crowper. 


38 


ea 


Give the growing children Knox Sparkling Gelatine 


Potato Salad 


Slice and cut in pieces one quart of cold boiled potatoes, one 
small onion and three hard-boiled eggs. Season to taste, mix 
together. Use for dressing one-half pint of vinegar, sweeten to 
taste, one teaspoon of mustard, a lump of butter the size of an 
egg, one tablespoon of cream. Let this come to a boiling point 
and pour over the ingredients. After stirring well, garnish with 
slices of hard-boiled eggs. Mrs. M. D. Strrotuemr. 


Potato Salad 


Mash or cut in cubes, cold boiled potatoes, one mellow apple, 
one onion, one or two stalks of celery, one green or ripe sweet 
pepper, hard-boiled eggs. Mix with dressing made from half 
cup sweet milk, one egg beaten into it, boil until it thickens; 
then add a tablespoonful of butter, one of sugar, some salt, pep- 
per and mustard to taste. Slice hard-boiled eggs and place on 
top, garnish with tips of celery or parsley. 

’ Mrs. U. B. ALzxanvEr. 


Potato Salad 


Boil five medium size potatoes, cool and dice. To these add 
six sticks of celery and two pimentoes diced. If onions are liked 
chop one fine, salt slightly. Mix these with one-half cup mayon- 
naise. Line salad bowl with lettuce. Place salad on this leav- 
ing lettuce arranged around the edges. Cut pimento into strips, 
like petals and arrange as a flower. Grate yolk of boiled egg 
for center. Mrs. R. E. Price. 


Chicken Salad 


Boil chicken until it is tender and cut in small pieces, cut 
also whites of a dozen hard boiled eggs. Add chopped cabbage 
and celery in equal quantities. Pound yolks of eggs fine and 
add two tablespoons of sugar and butter. One teaspoon of 
mustard with pepper and salt to taste. Finally add half a tea 


cup of good vinegar. Mix thoroughly. 
| Mrs. M. D. Srroruer. 


Chicken Salad 


Mix white meat of cold, boiled chicken cut fine, with about 
same quantity of celery, one hard-boiled egg, a little mayonnaise 
dressing, and let stand in cool place about one hour. Serve on 
lettuce and spread with mayonnaise over top. Garnish with 
stuffed olives and one hard-boiled egg sliced. 

Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 


39 


Knox Sparkling Gelatine improves Soups and Gravies 


Egg Salad 


Cut the white of three hard-cooked eggs lengthwise in strips 
one-fourth inch thick. Arrange these on lettuce leaves as the 
petals of a flower. Mix half the yolks with an equal amount 
of mayonnaise. Drop the mixture in the center of the petals. 
Put the remaining yolks through a sieve and sprinkle over each 
salad. This makes three salads. Miss Lournn Murcuison. 


Grape Fruit and Orange Salad 


Slice grape fruit and orange, arrange on lettuce, garnish with 
blanched almonds, shredded. Serve with French dressing. 
Miss Lourns Mourcuison. 


Salmon and Pea Salad 


Two cupfuls of flaked salmon are mixed with 2 cupfuls of 
peas and season with celery, salt and paprika. Serve on lettuce 
with mayonnaise dressing. Miss Lovinz Murcutison. 


Tuna Fish Salad 


1 can tuna fish. 2 dill pickles (chopped fine). 
A few stalks of celery. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 


Mix with salad dressing and add salt and a pinch ‘of red 
pepper. Mrs. R. B. Temprieron. 


Surprise Egg Salad 


14 cup chopped celery. ¥ cup chopped cooked chicken or 
6 eggs. ham. 
1 cup mayonnaise or cooked salad _ 6 stuffed olives. 

dressing. 1 head of lettuce. 


Cover the eggs with boiling water and set where they will be 
at the boiling point, but where the water will not bubble for 
three-quarters of an hour. Put in cold water until chilled, shell 
and leave in cold water until ready to serve. Arrange salad 
leaves on dish. Mix the celery, cooked chicken, half the mayon- 
naise. With a sharp knife cut off the small ends of the eggs 
and with a small spoon remove the yolk, being careful not to 
break the white. Fill each with the chicken mixture and stand, 
cut end down, on the lettuce. Put spoonful of mayonnaise 
between eggs and sprinkle with yolks which have been put 
through a potato ricer. Decorate with the stuffed olives cut in 
slices. Miss Mary D. Groree. 


40 





Ask your grocer for Knox Gelatine—take no other 





Waldorf Salad 


Dice two cups apples, one and one-half cups celery, two cups 
pineapple and one cup seedless raisins or grapes. Mix thor- 
oughly with mayonnaise. Serves from four to six persons. 

Mrs. U. B. Atexanper. 


Waldorf Salad 


Two cups diced apples, one cup celery, cut in pieces, lettuce, 
one-half cup nut meats broken in pieces. Mix apples, celery and 
nuts. Moisten well with mayonnaise. Arrange on crisp lettuce 
leaves with salad dressing over the top. Garnish the top with 
halves of nut meats, if desired. Miss Mary D. Grorer. 


Stuffed Celery Sticks 


One cream cheese, walnut meats, paprika and mayonnaise. 
The large outside stalks of celery should be used. Scrape, 
wash well, then lay in cheese cloth on ice until wanted. Mix 
the cheese with dressing and fill the celery stalks rounding, 
sprinkle with chopped walnut meats and paprika. Serve on 
bed of lettuce leaves with rings of sweet green pepper for 
garnish. Miss Mary D. Groree. 


Salmon Salad 


One can salmon, two boiled potatoes, two dill pickles, few 
olives, celery, one very small chopped onion, three hard boiled 
eges, season with vinegar, pepper and salt, mix thoroughly with 
dressing made of three tablespoons French’s cream salad mus- 
tard, three tablespoons cream or milk, one teaspoon sugar. Let 
stand for few hours before serving. The eggs may be sliced 


and placed on top, also some of the olives if desired. 
Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 


Russian Salad Dressing 


V4 teaspoonful mustard 1 teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce: 
4 teaspoonful salt. 1 tablespoonful vinegar. | 

1/8 teaspoonful white pepper. 1 tablespoonful lemon-juice. 

1/8 teaspoonful paprika. 1 tablespoonful minced green pepper. 
¥ cupful salad oil. 2 teaspoonfuls minced parsley. 

1 teaspoonful grated onion. 1 tablespoonful chili sauce. 


Mix together the mustard, salt, white pepper and paprika. 
Add these dry ingredients to the vinegar, lemon Juice, erated 
onion, Worcestershire sauce, chili sauce, minced green pepper 
and minced parsley, mixed together. Beat all into the salad 
oil and serve at once. Miss Rutn W#ATHERLY. 


41 


KNOX GELATINE comes in two packages—PLAIN and ACIDU- 
LATED (Lemon Flavor) 





Boiled Dressing for Chicken or Potato Salad 


2 tablespoons butter. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 teaspoon flour. 1 teaspoon mustard (dry). 
Mix all ingredients together and add: 

1 egg, then beat well. Add 34 cup milk. 

14 cup vinegar. Pinch salt. 


Boil until thick as custard. 
Mrs. H. E. Grorer. 


Salad Dressing 


5 yolks of eggs. 14 cup sugar. 

14 teaspoon mustard. 14 cup melted lard. 
1% teaspoon salt. 14 cup vinegar. 

14 teaspoon celery seed. 1 cup whipped cream. 


l4 teaspoon pepper. 


Beat yolks light, add dry ingredients and melted lard. Let 
vinegar boil and add egg mixture. Stir till thick and cool. 
Add whipped cream before using. Dressing for one chicken 


for salad. Mrs. C. E. Gienn. 
French Dressing 

V4 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 

4 teaspoon pepper. 4 tablespoons olive oil. 


Mix ingredients and stir until well blended and it thickens 
slightly. A few drops of onion juice may be added. French 
dressing 1s more easily prepared than any other, and is almost 
always prepared at the table, as greens soon wilt if allowed 
to stand in the dressing. Miss Rutu WeatTHeERty. 


Molded Fruit Salad 


6 tablespoons Knox’s gelatine. 1 cup pineapple, diced. 

6 tablespoons sugar. 1 orange, diced. 

6 tablespoons lemon juice. 4 pound Malaga grapes. 
Cherries. 14 pound cocoanut. 


Dissolve gelatine in one-third cup water, add one and one-half 
cups boiling water. Add fruit juice or one cup water. Place 
cherries in bottom of mold, other fruit in layers. Pour in 
gelatine. Turn out on lettuce, serve with mayonnaise. Serves 
twelve. Mrs. C. E. Guenn. 


Italian Salad 
Fresh tomatoes, sliced, celery, green peppers and a little 


chopped onion. Serve with French dressing. 
Mrs. U. B. Arexanper. 


42 





KNOX GELATINE makes Desserts, Salads, Candies, Puddings, 
Ices, Etc. 


Orange and Cheese Salad 


Peel one orange, removing all the white. Arrange the sec- 
tions in fan shape on lettuce leaf, loosening them at only 
one end. Roll cream cheese in a ball one inch in diameter. 
Fleck with paprika. Place the ball at the base of the fan- 
shaped sections. Serve with French dressing. 

Miss Lourns Murcuison. 


String Bean Salad 


One quart string beans, one small green pepper, one small 
onion. Cook beans in salt water until done, drain and add 
pepper and onion chopped fine. Pour over this French dress- 
ing and serve on crisp lettuce. If the beans have been cooked 
with meat, rinse with hot water then with cold and fix the 
same way. Miss Mary D. Grorce. 


Apple and Raisin Salad 


Pare, quarter and core three medium apples, cut into thin 
slices and squeeze over them the juice of one lemon. Add one 
cup of large raisins well plumped by boiling a few minutes and 
dried. Add one cup celery cut in one-fourth inch slices. 
Sprinkle with one-half teaspoon salt and four to six tablespoons 
of cool oil. Mix all together and serve on crisp lettuce. 

Miss Lovinr Murcuison. 


String Bean and Cheese Salad 


With the smooth sides of butter hands roll Neufchatel cheese 
into small egg shapes. Season string beans with French dress- 
ing and arrange on lettuce leaves in the shape of a nest. Ar- 
range the eggs in the nest and sprinkle with dressing. Fleck 
with chopped parsley or paprika. Miss Lovins Murcuison. 


43 


; J.P. WYATT, President W.S. BURRUSS, Vice-Pres. & Treas. 


| Wyatt-Burruss Ice & Fuel Co. 


Bynum Printing Co. 
Better Printing 


Phones 692-693 
Raleigh, North Carolina 


Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 


ICE, COAL, COKE AND WOOD 


7 No. 1 Elks Bldg. P. O. Box 45 
; PHONES: OFFICE 2142, COAL YARD 1162, ICE PLANT 141 
FRR in PO ROR DORA ea a Py at ep e 
A a as aa neem nine ren ee or oy epee = 
| Service Since 1836 
| £ 
| 
| H. J. Brown Company j; 
FABIUS P. BROWN, Proprietor j 
FUNERAL DIRECTORS 
: Raleigh, N. C. | 
OF he ht ee ee ee de 


JOHN ASKEW 


CONTRACTING PAINTER 
AND PAINT SUPPLIES 


Estimates made in and out of town 


RALEIGH, N. C. 


KNOX GELATINE is GUARANTEED to please or money back 


CHEESE DISHES 


Cheese Omelet 


3 tablespoons flour. 3 tablespoons butter. 
1 cup grated cheese. 1 cup sweet milk. 
3 eggs. 


Cream, flour and butter, add milk, put on stove, cook until 
thick, remove from fire and add cheese, beat eggs separately, 
adding whites, last put in stove and cook twenty or twenty- 
five minutes. Mrs. Epear J. Wicker. 


Cheese Balls 


Grate one cup cheese, beat into it one egg, white whipped stiff. 
Mix into small balls and fry in smoking fat. 
Mrs. U. B. ALExanpeEr. 


Creole Spaghetti 


1 package spaghetti. 1 can tomatoes. 
2 sweet green peppers. 2 onions chopped fine. 
1 pound round steak run through 1 cup grated cheese. 

meat chopper. 

Brown the onions in two large spoons hot grease, add the 
chopped meat and stir lightly with a fork until the meat is 
seared over and slightly brown. Add the can of tomatoes 
and the green peppers freed from seed and chopped fine. Mix, 
cover closely and simmer very slowly one hour. Do not boil 
hard and do not season until it has cooked one hour, then 
season to taste with salt, pepper and red pepper. While the 
sauce is cooking prepare the spaghetti in small pieces. Cook 
one package in three quarts of boiling salted water till tender, 
but not shapeless. Drain off the hot water. Blanch by pour- 
ing cold water over it and drain again. When ready to serve, 
arrange on a broad platter a layer of the spaghetti, then a 
layer of sauce, another of spaghetti, then one of sauce. Spread 
the grated cheese on top. Place in oven just long enough to 
melt cheese and serve hot. Mrs. W. F. Racranp. 


Baked Macaroni 


Break up in lengths an inch long. Cook in boiling, salted 
water about twenty minutes; drain and put layer of macaronl 
in bottom of greased pan or baking dish, then layer of grated 
or thinly sliced cheese, then layer of toasted biscuit or cracker 
crumbs, with butter, a little more salt and pepper sprinkled 
in. Repeat this until pan is full, having cheese on top. Pour 


in enough milk to nearly come to top, and bake until brown. 
Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 
45 


The KNOX ACIDULATED package contains Lemon Flavoring 





Cheese Straws 


2 cups sifted flour. 14 teaspoon cayenne pepper. 
2 teaspoons baking powder. 1 egg. 

1 teaspoon salt. 4 cup milk. 

14 cup butter. 34 cup grated cheese. 


Sift flour once, add salt, baking powder and red pepper and 
sift three times. Add butter, egg before beating, cheese and 
milk and mix thoroughly. Roll one-eighth inch thick and cut 
in strips one-fourth inch wide. Bake in moderate oven until 
brown. Mrs. R. B. Tempreton. 


Cheese Apples 


Use American cheese, run through a meat grinder and form 
into small apples flattening the top and bottom slightly with 
the thumb and finger. Take the round part out of whole 
cloves and stick the clove in the bottom of apple. Use sprays 
of green shrubbery with the leaves cut off to make the stem, 
leaving one or two leaves on to give the natural effect of an 
apple. Tint the one side of the apple with the finger dipped 
in red cake or candy coloring. It will look like a small crab 
apple. Serve on the plate with fruit salad. 

Miss Mary D. Grores. 


Rictum Ditty (Rarebit) 


4 pound grated cheese. 1 can tomato soup. 
Y onion. 2 tablespoons of butter. 
2 eggs. 


Whites and yolks of eggs beaten separately, season with 
Worcestershire sauce, Tabasco sauce and salt to taste. Mix soup, 
cheese, and onion cut fine to the melted butter, stir, until heated 
and the cheese melted, then add yolks of eggs beaten, and lastly 
the well beaten whites, stirring constantly. Serve hot on toast 
or crackers. Miss Mary D. Groree. 


Cheese Souffle 


3 tablespoons flour. 3 eggs. 
3 tablespoons butter. 1 cup sweet milk. 
1 cup grated cheese. Salt and pepper to taste. 


Put butter and flour together in a saucepan, stir till blended 
without burning. Add the milk, a little at the time, and stir 
until the mixture becomes thick, add cheese, salt and pepper. 
Beat the egg yolks and whites separately, add yolks to the 
mixture in saucepan and blend thoroughly. Last fold in whites 
beaten to a stiff froth and turn into a deep, well greased dish. 
Bake in a moderate oven about twenty-five minutes, serve at 
once as it soon falls. Miss Bertiz Ruta. 

46 


Use KNOX GELATINE if you would be sure of results 





Home-Made Spaghetti 


14 box spaghetti. 6 onions. 
1 can tomatoes. Butter. 
14 pound cheese. V4 teaspoon salt. 


Black pepper 
Cook spaghetti in water with a little salt, about twenty 
minutes. Cut onions in small pieces and fry in butter until 
brown, add tomatoes, grated cheese, salt and pepper and cook 
ten minutes, put layer of spaghetti and layer of tomatoes, etc., 
in a deep pan and bake in moderate oven about half hour. 
Serve hot. Mrs. A. P. Hepricx. 


Cheese Straws 


One pint of flour, one teaspoon baking powder, salt to taste, 
good sized pinch, one cup grated cheese, one-half cup butter, 
a pinch: of cayenne pepper. Mix with milk, roll about one- 
fourth inch thick, cut in strips and bake. 

Miss Rurx Rieean. 


Macaroni Au Gratin 


11% cups macaroni. 3 tablespoons butter. 
1 cup grated cheese. 3 tablespoons flour. 
1 cup bread crumbs. 2 cups milk. 


1 teaspoon salt 
Cook macaroni in boiling water, salted, until tender, drain 
and pour over it a dash of cold water. Make a white sauce of 
butter, flour, milk and salt and mix with the macaroni. Stir 
the grated cheese into the mixture, turn into baking dish cover 
with the bread crumbs and bake in a moderate oven until nicely 
browned. If desired buttered crumbs may be used. 


WHITE SAUCE 


Heat the milk in double boiler, but do not let it reach the 
scalding point. Rub butter, flour and salt together until smooth, 
then slowly pour over them the heated milk, stir until smooth 


and thickened. Miss Mary D. Guorae. 
Cheese Soufiie 

1 cup of milk. 3 tablespoons flour. 

1 cup grated cheese. 3 eggs. 

3 tablespoons of butter. Pinch of salt. 


When the milk boils add butter and flour that has been 
mixed together. When it thickens take off the stove and add 
cheese, then the yolks well beaten and then the well beaten 
whites. Put in a greased baking dish and bake in a moderate 
oven twenty minutes. Mrs. H. E. Guorce. 


47 


All you add is water and sugar to the Knox Acidulated Package 





BREAD AND ROLLS 


Rolls 
2 quarts flour (plain). 2 teaspoons salt. 
2 tablespoons sugar. Sift all together. 


Mix in lard about the size of large egg, and make batter with 
two cups of water little more than lukewarm into which one 
cake Fleischmann’s yeast has been dissolved. Mix well and let 
rise about three hours, then make out rolls, let them rise about 
one and one-half hours longer, then bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. U. B. ALExAnvER. 


Pop-Overs 
2 eggs. 2 cups flour. 
2 cups milk. Pinch of salt. 


Beat all together with egg beater until batter is light and 
frothy. Fill muffin tins one-half full and bake twenty minutes 
increasing the heat after they rise. Miss Mary D. Groner. 


Corn Bread Baked or Soft Egg Bread 


1 pint meal. 1 teaspoon salt. 
4 cup flour. 1 teaspoon sugar. 
V4 teaspoon soda. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 


Sift all together and make soft batter with buttermilk, add 
two eggs, pour into well greased and floured pan or muffin 


rings and bake. Mrs. U. B. Atnxanper. 
Beaten. Biscuit 

4 cups flour. 1 tablespoon lard. 

1 scant teaspoon salt. 1 cup sweet milk. 


A small pinch soda. 


Mix into very stiff dough, roll in biscuit machine until it 
blisters or beat with biscuit-beater until it blisters and can be 
handled without any flour, bake thirty minutes. 

Miss Mitprep H. Smiru. 


Good Biscuits 


2 cups flour. 14 teaspoon salt. 
5 level teaspoons baking powder. Vg teaspoon soda. 
14 cup lard. About one cup clabber or sour milk. 


Mix with spoon. The dough will be too soft to roll but with 
plenty of flour, pat it and cut with a medium size cutter. 
Miss Mitprep H. Smiru. 
48 


ae = 
uss o a 





teem allen real 





aed, Hectrik Bake Sho 
iG Soe, 103 Fayetteville St. P 


ei = 









Our Bread, Rolls, Pies and Cakes 
are Superior to all Others. 


Particular and Especially High- 
class Orders our Specialty. 


“Taste the Difference’’ 


ont tt ttn 
J 


Sot eH eH ee eH HN NN mH He ORS 


—— 
commen ff} commen fe ff commen ff ff comm ff }) comms fi ff camaro ff jf commen fff cme ff {comme ff ff corona jf j] exec | } ome ff |] mee |} ff or ff |] mmm ff | comme f) || arson §) |] cm fj | eee fj |} cre fff] coe ff ff comme |] 


Sweet Potato Biscuits 


14% cups flour. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 
4 teaspoon salt. 1 cup mashed potatoes. 
14 cup shortening. About 14 cup sweet milk. 
Bake fifteen minutes. Miss Mitprep H. Sirs. 


Boston Brown Bread 


1 pint graham flour. 1 pint corn meal. 
2 teaspoons soda dissolved in water. 1% teaspoon salt. 
1% pint molasses. 1 pint water. 


Mix ingredients in order given. Beat well. Use milk in 


place of water if desired. Steam two and one-half hours. 
Mrs. W. P. Barrarp. 


Corn Cake or Johnny Cake 


1 cup corn meal. 1 cup flour with 2 teaspoons of baking 
1 egg well beaten. powder sifted through it. 
4 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon butter. 


Good pinch of salt. 


Mix with milk. After mixing all together beat well and bake. 
Mrs. W. P. Bavarp. 


Raised Rolls 


1 quart flour. 1% tablespoon lard. 
14 tablespoon butter. 1 tablespoon sugar. _ 
14 yeast cake. 1 pint cold boiled milk. 


Little salt. 


Mix lard, butter, flour, ete., together with hands. When 
needed for breakfast set at three o’clock day before, and at 
nine o’clock roll out, cut with biscuit cutter. Butter one side 
and turn over. Set away in a cool place over-night. If to be 
used for dinner at six o’clock, set early in the morning and 
roll out at noon. Mrs. P. B. Macruper. 


4 49 


For Dainty, Delicious Desserts, use Knox Gelatine 


Drop Powder Biscuit 


One tablespoonful of lard, one pint flour, salt, two full tea- 
spoons of baking powder, one teaspoon of sugar, enough milk 
to make a batter soft enough to drop from a spoon. Bake in 


a very hot oven. Mrs. H. I. Grass. 
Corn Sticks 
2 cups meal. 2 tablespoonfuls melted shortening. 
1 teaspoon salt. 1 whole egg. 
3 teaspoons baking powder 144 cups milk. 
(Rumford). 


Sift all the ingredients together, add the milk, shortening, 
and lastly the egg well beaten. Pour into muffin tins heated 
and oiled, or iron stick pans heated and oiled. Bake in hot 
oven about twenty minutes. Mrs. T. T. Wettions. 


Raisin Bread 


11% cups meal. 114 cups buttermilk. 
11% cups flour. 11% teaspoons soda. | 
34 cup molasses. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup raisins. 1 cup nut meats. 


14 teaspoon each of nutmeg and spice. 
Large kitchen spoon melted lard. 


Sift dry ingredients together, then add milk, etc., steam in 
two coffee cans (pound size) for two and one-half hours allow- 
ing boiling water to come nearly to top of cans. 

Mrs. Epear J. Wicker. 


Southern Corn Bread 


2 cups meal. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
1 tablespoon hot bacon grease. 4 teaspoon salt. 


Mix with cold water to a real soft or thin mixture, pour in 
a hot pan greased well with bacon fat, cook in a hot oven. 


Mrs. J. B. Martin. 


Corn Bread 


34 cup corn meal. V4 teaspoon salt. 

1 cup flour. 1 cup milk. 

14 cup sugar. 1 egg. 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 2 tablespoons melted butter. 


Mix and sift the dry ingredients, add the milk, then the well 
beaten egg, and lastly the melted butter. Beat thoroughly. 
Bake for twenty-five minutes in a shallow buttered pan in a 
hot oven. Miss Ruta WEATHERLY. 


50 


Dainty Recipes in each Knox Gelatine package 


—)SgK eeeeS—S——esesesese 


Kentucky Spoonbread 


2 cups corn meal. 1 teaspoon salt. 
2 eggs. 1% cups buttermilk. 
1 teaspoon soda. 114 tablespoons butter. 


Scald meal before adding the other ingredients. 
Miss Minprep H. Suirz. 


Southern Spoonbread 


2 cups milk. Yo teaspoon salt. 
1 cup corn meal. 4 eggs. 


Scald the milk, and slowly stir in the corn meal, add the 
salt and let boil two or three minutes. Remove from the fire, 
add the beaten egg yolks, beat well, then carefully fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Pour into a buttered baking-dish 
and bake in a moderate oven one-half hour. Serve hot from the 
baking dish at the table with a large spoon. 

Miss Ruta WsatTHErty. 


Nut Bread 
1 cake yeast. 1 cup scalded milk, cooled. 
1 tablespoon sugar. 3 cups flour. 
1/3 cup sugar. 2 tablespoons lard. 
1 egg (white). 34 cup nuts (chopped). 


1/3 teaspoon salt. 


Dissolve yeast and one tablespoon sugar in lukewarm milk, 
add one-fourth cup flour and stir thoroughly. Cover and set 
aside in warm place for fifty minutes or until light. Add sugar 
and lard creamed, egg whites, nuts, remainder of flour and salt. 
Knead well and put in greased bowl and let it rise until double 


in bulk or two to two and one-half hours. 
Mrs. R. B. Temprieton. 


Diabetic Bread (Jirch Food Co., Morris Plains, New Jersey) 


2 pounds Jirch flour. 2 pints warm water. 
4 ounce salt. 1 yeast cake. 


Dissolve yeast and salt in little warm water, mix thoroughly 
with the flour, add sufficient warm water to make a thin dough. 
Allow dough to stand covered for one hour, then turn dough 
again. Put in warm pans and set to rise in warm place. In 
another hour it is ready for the oven which should be moderately 


hot. Small loaves are best and will bake in less than an hour. 
Mrs. Epwarp E. Crane. 


51 


KNOX GELATINE is highest quality and worth its price 





Buttermilk Biscuits 


2 cups flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
1 teaspoon salt. 14 teaspoon soda. 
2 tablespoons lard. 14% cups buttermilk. 


Make in soft dough and cut; bake in quick, hot oven about 
ten minutes. Miss Berriz Rutz. 


Salt Rising Bread 


In warm weather, the evening before or at noon in cold 
weather, scald a pint of sweet milk, add a pinch of soda, one- 
half teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonsful of sugar and while 
hot stir in corn meal to make a thin batter, and set in a warm 

lace. 
Next morning scald a pint of fresh sweet milk, cool with a 
pint of water, add one-half teaspoonful of soda and the batter 
prepared the night before, then beat in flour to make a stiff 
batter. Set in a vessel of warm water until light, which will 
be in a short time. Have flour sifted in the tray, add a table 
spoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of lard, pour in yeast, 
knead well, mold into loaves, put in greased pans, set in a warm 
place and when bread rises and is light it is ready to bake. 
Miss Ruta WeratHeERty. 


Lightning Bread Recipe 


Peel one medium large potato. Cut into four parts. Add 
one and one-half quarts of water. Boil until potato is thor- 
oughly done. 

Strain off water and save it. 

Mash potato fine. To the mashed potato add one teaspoon 
of salt and enough potato water to make a total solution of one 
quart. Add one tablespoon sugar. Mix well and cool to luke- 
warm temperature. Place in one quart jar. Break and add 
one cake of magic yeast, stir and stand in warm place over 
night or for about twelve hours. 

After ferment has stood about twelve hours it can be used 
any time within the next eight hours. Ferment should be luke- 
warm when flour is added. If it is cold place in warm water 
for about fifteen minutes. When you are ready to make bread, 
place ferment in bowl. Add one tablespoon lard, two table- 
spoons of sugar, one teaspoon salt. Warm flour before mixing. 
Use about twelve quarts of flour. Add and mix all of the above 
to medium stiff dough, using a large spoon. 

Knead for five minutes. Place in greased bowl, cover and let 
rise for forty-five minutes. 


52 


Each package of KNOX GHLATINE makes FOUR PINTS of jelly 


Place dough on moulding board. Fold over five or six times 
so as to press out the gas. Put back into bowl and let rise 
fifteen minutes. Then mould into four loaves. Let rise to 
nearly double their size. Bake in moderate oven for forty-five 
minutes. 

If one does not care to make four loaves at one time use half 
of the amounts called for. Use half of the ferment and place 
the balance in a glass fruit jar and cover. It will keep for 
two or three days and can be used in the same way. 

Miss RutH WEATHERLY. 


PHONE 457 
Coal - Wood - Ice - Brick 
Johnson Coal & Ice Co. 


109 W. Martin St. 


eH jf hr ff en eH me mee ff aommeetitmnnen 11 09 


9 es J 1 em ff 1 eames fff ee 9} em ff ff ese fh) ee ff | | HH oem Hem fff oem ff come fff ese ff fff mmm 9 J me fff mmo  If e H LH ttt me oe 


Hee if} ee fff HN NN HH HN HH Net ey 


HILKER BROS. 


Who Tailor Best in Raleigh 


Alterations, Repairing, Dry ae 
and Pressing 
Special Attention Given Ladies’ Work 
Phone 709 105 Fayetteville St. 


Le me He HORS CF Hh hm et tne tomo 


ese an ae pe Hi ccommec ff ff cm fff] comcroeme |] Y emecem |} ff comma ff 


1 1 ee HY ce fH oe nef 


iets ccm fff mone ff] mm ff meme ff me Hf ff em 9 om ff ff ef | mmm HH comm HH fe ff ff em ff ee ft ee HH Hm HH cee Hf ae Hh i it 


“i fem fj femme 


* Baker: Thompson Lumber Company 


Manufacturers 


Sash, Doors, Millwork 


Beaver Board, Vulcanite, Roofing, Glass 


Raleigh, N. C. 


eee jf | ee ff ee ff 
ihm fe Nh Nh NH I cm nH ni ue Hit 


53 


j 
lay 
1 | 
(ej 
| 
= 
| 
| 
| 
2 
| 
= 
lel 
= 
ii 
| 
= 
| 
2 


OR ea he mm eet me eh ee OS 


OB me hth te he iL a Hm cm 


Try KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE with the Lemon Flavor 
enclosed. 





CAKES, FILLINGS AND ICINGS 


Cake-Making Hints 


Pastry flour should be used for cakes and quick breads. It 
is made from winter wheats and has more starch and less 
gluten than bread flour; it is whiter, and when rubbed between 
the fingers feels soft and velvety. When pressed in the hand 
it retains the imprint of the fingers and holds its shape. If 
bread flour is used instead of pastry flour, substitute two table- 
spoons of corn starch for the same amount of bread flour in 
each cupful. 

Air, gas, or a combination of the two, are the means that 
we have of making a cake light. We get air into a cake by 
beating the batter or using lightly beaten eggs. The gas is 
generated by using baking powder or an alkali. When a cake 
batter is beaten too long more of the gas is lost than the amount 
of air it is possible to beat in. Fold in the egg whites care- 
fully, using a cutting and folding motion and not a beating 
one, for the air has already been beaten into the whites and 
any further beating or stirring of the batter will only drive 
it out. 


Virginia Pound Cake 


1 pound sugar. 1 pound Swans Down flour. 

14 pound butter. 5 eggs. 

1 cup water (cold). 2 full teaspoons Rumford baking 
Pinch of salt. powder. 


Beat eggs separately, cream butter, then add sugar, little at 
a time, then yolk of eggs, then water, then the flour, salt and 
baking powder sifted twice. Fold whites of eggs in last, don’t 
light the gas oven until the cake is ready to go in, bake forty- 
five minutes in a slow oven. Mrs. H. E. Grorce. 


Orange Cake and Filling 


2 cups sugar. 4 cup butter. 
3 eggs. 2 cups flour. 
1 cup sweet milk. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 


Little salt. 


Into the white of one egg beaten stiff stir one-half cup 
powered sugar. Add the juice of one-half orange and enough 
sugar to thicken. When well mixed add the grated rind of 
the orange. Mrs. W. P. Barrarp. 


54 


KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE saves the cost, time and bother 
of squeezing lemons 





Chocolate Cake 


4 eggs well beaten. 2 cups sugar. 

1 large cup milk. 1 pint flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 1 small cup butter (or half butter and 
4 teaspoon salt. half lard melted together). 


Mix together and beat well and bake in greased and floured 
tins. Put together with chocolate icing. 
Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 


Delightful Cake 


1 cup butter. 2 cups sugar. 
4 level cups flour. 2 heaping teaspoons baking powder. 
1 teaspoon lemon extract. 2 cups milk or water. 

3 eggs. 


Cream butter and add ingredients, stir briskly. Bake two 
layers and to last add one pound of dates, one pound of raisins, 
one cup nuts, two teaspoons cinnamon, two teaspoons mixed 
spice. Put together alternately with following filling : 

2 cups brown sugar. 1 large spoon butter. 
¥ cup milk. 


Cook until ropes, beat until creamy, then spread between 


layers. | Mrs. R. E. Prince. 
Lady Baltimore Cake 

34 cup butter. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

11% cups sugar. 6 whites of eggs. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 


3 cups flour. 


Cream butter and sugar, until light, add milk, add flour in 
which baking powder has been sifted. Mix well, flavor and 
fold in stiffly beaten eggs. Bake in layers in a quick oven. 


ICING 
2 cups granulated sugar. 14 cup water. | 
2 egg whites. 1% teaspoon baking powder. 
1 cup chopped raisins. 14 cup chopped figs. 
4 cup pecans. 1% cup almonds. 


Make a boiled icing by cooking sugar and water until it 
spins a thread. Beat eggs until stiff and add baking powder. 
While beating pour hot syrup slowly over beaten eggs, continue 
beating until thick enough to spread. Divide icing leaving 
out enough for top and sides, mix fruit and nuts with remainder 
and put between layers. Decorate with whole nuts. 


Mrs. C. A. WALLIN. 
55 


Where recipes call for Gelatine, use KNOX SPARKLING 


GELATINE 

Fruit Cake 
1 pound butter. 1 pound brown sugar. 
1 pound flour. 9 eggs. 
2 pounds raisins. 1 pound figs. 
1 pound dates. 1 pound citron. 
14 pound candied cherries. 1 pound Brazil nuts. 
4 pound orange peel. ‘“. 14 pound lemon peel. 
1 tabelspoonful cinnamon. \ 14 pound black walnuts. 
1 teaspoonful mace. 1 teaspoonful cloves. 
4 nutmeg. ‘cup molasses. 


Cream together sugar and half the butter, add yolks of eggs, 
then the flour, alternating with well beaten whites of eggs. 
Have fruit thoroughly cleaned, dried.and chopped. Melt re- 
maining butter and mix thoroughly with the chopped fruit and 
nuts. Add to the batter, blend thoroughly and pour in baking 
tins. Steam three hours. Dry out in oven thirty or forty 


minutes. Mrs. J, W. WiaAvEr. 
Gold Cake 

2 cups sugar. 1 cup butter. 

1 cup milk. Yolks of 4 eggs. - 

3% cups flour. 2 whole eggs. 

14 teaspoon soda. 14 teaspoon cream tartar. 


Mix butter and sugar, add eggs well beaten, then milk, sift 
flour, soda, and cream of tartar, and add to the mixture. This 
makes a good foundation for most any layer cake, by using 
different fillings and frosting. Mrs. T. T. Wettons. 


Sponge Cake 


Five eggs separated, two cups granulated sugar, three-fourths 
cup boiling water, two cups sifted flour (Swan’s Down). 
Separate yolks and whites, beat yolks until thick and creamy. 
Add sugar little at a time, and beat, using egg whip, add boil- 
ing water, beating well all the time, then add flour which has 
been sifted three times after being measured and last whites 
of eggs with a pinch of salt added to them. Pour into a 
lightly greased and floured pan and bake in an oven not too 


hot. Miss Mary D. Guoree. 
Foundation Filling for Layer Cakes 

2 cups sugar. 1 heaping tablespoon flour. 

1 cup milk. Pinch salt. 

Butter size of egg. 1 teaspoon extract. 


To this may. be added cocoanut, pineapple, nuts, raisins, or 
any desired fruits or nuts. Mrs. U. B. Arexanper. 


56 


KNOX GELATINE solves the problem of ‘‘What to have for 





dessert”’ 
‘Jelly Roll 
3 eggs. 1 cup flour. 
1 cup sugar. 14 teaspoon salt. 
3 teaspoons cold water. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 


Beat the egg and sugar till quite thick. Add water, then 
the flour, salt and the baking powder sifted together twice. 
Line a shallow pan with greased paper, pour in the batter 
evenly and bake in a quick oven about twelve minutes. Turn 
out on a cloth or paper sprinkled with sugar, tear off paper 
and spread with jam or jelly. Roll up quickly. 

Mrs. T. T. Wettons. 


Date-Nut Loaf 


1 cup nut meats. 1 cup dates. 

1 cup flour. 1 cup sugar. 

2 tablespoonsful warm water. Vg teaspoonful salt. 

14 teaspoonful cinnamon. 1g teaspoonful vanilla. 

3 eggs. Heaping teaspoonful baking powder. 


Chop dates and nut meats. Beat eggs and sugar until lemon 
color. Add warm water and other ingredients. Bake in 
moderate oven twenty to twenty-five minutes. Out into squares 
while warm and roll in sugar. Miss Newuie Royster. 


Brown Stone Front 


1 cup butter. 2 teaspoons of soda. 

1 cup buttermilk. 2 teaspoons of Bee Brand vanilla. 
3 cups sugar. Ye cup chocolate. 

4 eggs. 1 cup boiling water. 


4 cups flour. 


Cream butter, add the sugar and beat well, then add the 
eggs. Dissolve the soda in the milk. Add to the other mix- 
ture, add the flour and flavoring. Pour the boiling water over 
the chocolate, beat until cool and add to the batter. Put layers 
together with caramel filling. Miss RutH WEATHERLY. 


Cheap Cake 


Three eggs, three cups of flour, one-half cup butter, one cup 
of milk, one and one-half cups of sugar. 5 

Separate eggs, beating yolks with half of the sugar. Cream 
butter with other half of sugar. Add these three together. 

Sift flour three times with three level teaspoonsful of baking 
powder. Add flour to other ingredients. Whip whites of eggs 
very stiff and add last. Add little flour at the time alternating 
with milk. Flavor to taste and bake in layers in a moderate 
oven. Mrs. H. I. Grass. 


57 


Use KNOX GELATINE—the Four-pint package 





Pineapple Cake 


6 eggs. 2 cups sugar. 

1 cup pineapple syrup. 4 cup milk. 

14 pound butter. Piece of lard size of walnut. pe 

4 cups flour, sifted well. 2 full teaspoons Rumford baking 
powder. 


Cream sugar, butter and lard well, add four whole eggs and 
two yolks (well beaten), milk and pineapple syrup. Flour and 
baking powder. ‘This mixture makes five good layers. 


FILLING 


To two well beaten egg whites add XX XX or confectioner’s 
sugar, to ice well, then spread pineapple. 


Mrs. W. I. WeEttons. 


White Cake 
5 eggs (whites). 134 cups sugar. 
34 cup butter. 1 cup milk. 
3 cups flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 


Flavor to taste. 


If you want a spice cake take out some of the dough and 
add whatever spice you like. If you want a chocolate add some 
cocoa same as you would spice. Cream sugar and butter, add 
milk, then flour, then eggs beaten good. Mrs. J. T. Move. 


Orange Cake 


Batter: Use four eggs, one cup sugar, two cups flour, one- 
half cup warm water, one teaspoonful baking powder, one-half 
cup butter. 

Filling: To two oranges, grated peeling and pulp, add two 
cups sugar, two tablespoonfuls water. Cook in a double boiler, 
and when scalding hot, stir in the yolk of two eggs, well beaten. 
Cook until it jells, and just before taking from the fire, stir in 
the white of one egg slightly beaten. When cold put between 
the layers. 

Lemons may be used instead of oranges, making it a lemon 
cake. Miss Ruts Riaean. 


Apple Sauce Cake 


2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoon cloves—ground fine. 
eggs. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 

2 cups stewed apples. 1 pound raisins or currants. 

14 cup crisco. 3 cups flour. 


2 teaspoons baking soda. 
Bake forty minutes medium heat. 


Mrs. W. L. Nevins. 
58 


KNOX GELATINE makes a transparent, tender, quivering jelly 


Cocoa Cake 
1 cup butter. 3 cups flour. 
3 cups sugar. 8 eggs. 
‘1 cup cocoa. 1 cup milk. 
2 teaspoons vanilla. 2 teaspoons Rumford baking powder. 


Cream butter, add sugar and egg yolks, well beaten, add cocoa 
mixed with sifted dry ingredients and add alternately with 
milk. Cut or fold in stiffly beaten whites, pour into buttered 
pans, bake. Use either Mocha cake filling or boiled frosting. 
(This cake makes six layers, I only use half the recipe.) 


BOILED FROSTING 
1 cup sugar. 1 cup water. 
1 teaspoon Bee Brand vanilla. 2 egg whites. 
Boil sugar and water until it will spin a thread, pour slowly 
over stiffly beaten egg whites, add vanilla and beat until cool. 
Spread between layers and on top of cake. Miss Rut Dew. 


White Layer Cake 


% cup butter. 3 cups flour. 
2 cups sugar. 4 egg whites or 2 whole eggs. 
1 cup water or milk. 6 teaspoons baking powder. 


1 teaspoon vanilla. 


Cream the butter, add sugar, and cream all thoroughly. Add 
yolks, and beat hard; then add the milk, melted chocolate, and 
gradually the flour. Beat vigorously. Fold in_ the stiffly 
beaten whites of eggs, vanilla, and baking powder. Mix quickly 
and bake in layers in a moderate oven. ‘This makes three layers 
and can be put together with any desired frosting but to make 
a white cake use boiled frosting. Miss Rutrn WEATHERLY. 


Maple Walnut Cake 


2 cups sugar. 1 cup butter. 

1 cup cold water. 4 eggs. 

3 cups flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
3 teaspoons cinnamon. 1 teaspoon maple flavoring. 


1 cup black walnut meat. 


Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, yolks beaten good, then 
water, add flour with baking powder and cinnamon, last beaten 


whites, then add nuts dredged in flour, then flavor. 
Mrs. J. T. Move. 


59 


KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE—no bother—no trouble—no 
squeezing lemons 





Plain White Icing 


3 cups sugar. 34 cup water. 
3 egg whites. 
Cook sugar until it forms a soft ball when dropped in a 
cup of cold water. Stir slowly into slightly broken egg whites. 
Mrs. W. I. Wettons. 


Notz. If you do not use all the icing the same day it is 
made you can take off the thin crust another day and use as 


well as when first made. Mrs. W. I. W. 
White Layer Cake With Marshmallow Filling 

2 cups sugar. 1 cup of butter beaten to a cream. 

14 cup sweet milk. 21 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. Whites of 8 eggs. 


Bake in jelly cake tins. 

Filling for above: Boil one-half cup water and three cups 
pulverized sugar till thick. Pour over well beaten whites of 
three eggs and mix in one-half pound of marshmallows. Beat 
carefully until all are mellow. When half cold add one tea- 
spoon of vanilla and put on cake layers. Mrs. A. D. Savage. 


Strawberry Shortcake 


Make good, short biscuit crust in two tins. Mix berries with 
plenty of sugar, open the shortcake, butter well and place berries 
in layers alternated with crust, have top layer of berries, serve 
with whipped cream. Or make crust and roll out pieces about 
size of biscuit very thin and place a spoonful or two of berries 
and sugar and a piece of butter in each and lap part of crust 
over top and bake in pans of hot grease. 


Mrs. U. B. ALExanpeEr. 


Raisin Cream Icing 


Cook one and one-half cups of light corn syrup until it will 
thread. Pour gradually, boiling hot, on the stiffly beaten whites 
of two eggs, add one cupful of chopped seeded raisins. Beat 
constantly until cold. 


Orange Filling and Frosting 


14 pound butter. Juice of 1 orange. 
3 cups confectioners sugar. 

Beat the butter to a cream, adding one cup of the sugar, then 
add the balance of the sugar and the orange juice alternately 
until all of the sugar is used. (If orange is not very juicy, two 
oranges will be necessary.) Miss Rutu Dew. 


60 





FOUR separate Desserts or Salads from one package of Knox 
Gelatine 





Icings 


1 pound XXXX sugar. 5 tablespoons milk. 
Piece of butter size of walnut 


Cream a little sugar with butter, then add milk and rest of 
sugar; beat until stiff enough to spread. If you want orange 
cake, add five teaspoons orange juice instead of milk. If lemon, 
add lemon juice instead of orange. If chocolate, add chocolate 
instead, with milk icing. Mrs. J. T. Move. 


Cream Cake 


3 eggs. 11% cups sugar. 
1 teaspoon baking powder. 34 cup cream. 


2 cups flour. 


Break one egg at the time in the bowl with the sugar, and 
beat good; then, when all the eggs are beaten into the sugar, 
add extract, then the cream, and lastly the flour and baking 
powder; beat good and bake in three layers. Put together with 
any desired filling. Miss Ruta WrEaTHERLY. 


Chocolate Angel Cake 


Whites of 12 eggs. 14 teaspoonful salt. 

114 cupfuls sugar. 1 cupful self-rising flour. 

6 teaspoonfuls cocoa. 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar. 
1 teaspoonful lemon juice. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 


Combine flour, cocoa, and sugar; sift eight times; measure 
before sifting. Place egg whites and salt in large bowl and beat 
until frothy, then add cream of tartar and lemon juice. Whip 
until very stiff. Now fold in flour, sugar, cocoa, and vanilla. 
Pour in ungreased pan; bake about forty-five or fifty minutes, 
or until cake shrinks from pan. Use a cream filling on cake. 


Mrs. T. T. Wettons. 


Molasses Cake 


1 cup sugar. 14 cup butter. 

4 egg yolks 14 teaspoon soda. 

1 cup molasses. 3 cups flour. 

1 teaspoon baking powder. 14 teaspoon Bee Brand cloves. 
1 teaspoon Bee Brand cinnamon. 144 cup milk. 

1 cup raisins rolled in flour. 14 cup nuts, chopped fine. 


Mix sugar, beaten eggs, melted butter; stir soda into molasses 
and add sifted flour, baking powder and spices together, and 
add milk; beat well; then add raisins and nuts. This cake may 
be baked in a loaf tin or layer cake. Use boiled icing for fill- 
ing, and nuts. Mrs. S. M. Swan. 


61 


KNOX stands for Quality and Quantity in Gelatine 


A Good Icing 


White of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; one large cup 
sugar moistened with four tablespoons hot water. Boil sugar 
briskly for five minutes or until it jingles on bottom of the cup 
when dropped into cold water, or ropes when dropped from end 
of spoon; then with left hand pour boiling syrup upon beaten 
eggs in a small stream while beating hard with right hand. 

Mrs. T. H. Litzs. 


One, Two, Three, Four Cake 


1 cup milk or water. 2 cups sugar. 

3 cups flour. 4 eggs. 

1 very scant cup butter. 1 teaspoon baking powder flavor to 
Little pinch of salt. taste. 


Mrs. T. H. Lizzs. 


Simple Butter Cake 


Y cup butter. 3 cups flour. 

2 cups sugar. 4 tablespoonsful baking powder. 
4 egg yolks. 4 egg whites. 

1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon flavoring. 


1% teaspoon salt. 


Cream butter, add sugar and yolks of eggs well beaten. Add 
flour, baking powder and salt, alternating with the milk. Add 
flavoring; then the whites of eggs, beaten stiff or folded in. 
Bake in loaf forty minutes, or in three layers twenty minutes. 


Mrs. J. E. Sawynr. 


Sea Foam Filling 


Four cups brown sugar, two cups water. Cook till it will 
harden when dropped in cold water. Have ready the whites of 
two eggs, beaten to a froth. Pour this over eggs and beat till 
thick and creamy. Miss Jante Harrineton. 


Queen’s Cake 


Beat well together one cupful of butter and three cupsful of 
white sugar; add the yolks of six eggs and one cupful of milk, 
two teaspoonfuls of vanilla or lemon extract. Mix all thor- 
oughly. To four cupfuls of flour add two heaping teaspoonfuls 
of cream of tartar, and sift gently over the cake, stirring all the 
time. T'o this add one even teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
one tablespoonful of warm water; mix it well; stir in gently 
the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff foam. Bake slowly. It 
should be put in the oven as soon as possible after putting in 
the soda and whites of eggs. Mrs. J. E. Sawyer. 


62 





Desserts can be made in a short time with KNOX GELATINE 


Devil’s Food Cake 


One scant cup sugar, one heaping cup flour, one-half cup 
cocoa, three teaspoons baking powder; sift all together three 
times; one-third cup melted butter, one egg not beaten; put egg 
in cup with butter; fill cup with sweet milk; add to sifted mix- 
ture, and flavor with vanilla. Bake in layers, using any desired 


frosting. Mrs. C. A. Watuin. 
Chocolate Cake 
1 cup butter. 2 cups sugar. 
4 eggs. 4 level cups flour. 
2 heaping teaspoons baking 1 tablespoon mixed spice. 
powder. 1 tablespoon cinnamon. 


Vg cup cocoa or cake of chocolate. 2 cups milk. 


Cream butter, then add other ingredients slowly; stir briskly 
as you add each. Bake in four layers and use following filling: 


14 cake chocolate (small). 1 tablespoon butter. 
¥ cup milk. 1 cup brown sugar. 
Boil five minutes and add confectioners’ sugar to consistency 
of jelly. Mrs. R. E. Prince. 
Coffee Cakes 
1 cup brown sugar. 2 eggs. 
1/3 cup butter. 1 pint flour. _ 
2 level teaspoons baking powder. 1 tablespoon cinnamon. 
1 tablespoon spice. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
4 pound dates. 14 pound raisins (seedless). 
1 cup nuts. 


To flour add cinnamon, spice, baking powder; then cut in the 
butter as for bread. Add raisins, dates and nuts to these. Stir 
eges and sugar and vanilla, and pour into flour and make into 
round cakes with the hand, leaving hole in center. Make filling 
of cup of brown sugar and tablespoon of butter. Cook until 
creamy, beat, and carelessly coat the top of each, having a 


rough appearance. Mrs. R. E. PRINnce. 
Coffee Cake 

1 cup brown sugar. Y cup shortening. 

1 egg. 1 cup sweet milk. 

3 cups flour. 1 cup raisins 


Vanilla, Bee Brand. 


Cream shortening and sugar, add beaten egg, add milk and 
flour alternately, sift baking powder with flour, pour into well- 
greased pan, sift cinnamon and brown sugar over top, dot with 
butter. Bake forty minutes. Mrs. C. E. GLEenn. 


63 


A KNOX GELATINE Dessert or Salad is attractive and appetizing 





Devil Cake 


Melt one-fourth pound chocolate in a double boiler, add to 
this the yolks of four eggs beaten with one cup of milk. Stir 
carefully until the mixture forms a soft paste, remove from fire 
and add four tablespoons butter, two cups sugar and one tea- 
spoon salt. Dissolve two level teaspoons soda in a little warm 
water and add to one cup of sweet milk. Add this to the choco- 
late mixture alternately with three cups sifted flour, stirring 
and beating until batter is well mixed and smooth. 

White frosting: Four egg whites, one and one-half cups 
water, four cups granulated sugar, vanilla. Boil ‘sugar and 
water until it forms a soft ball when tried in water. Pour this 
on stiffly beaten whites, beat until rather stiff, and add vanilla. 

Mrs. J. T. Morn. 


Chocolate Layer Cake 


4 cup butter. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
114 cups sugar. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
34 cup milk. 3 eggs. 


2 cups flour. 


_ Cream butter and sugar, add well-beaten egg yolks, add flour 
in which baking powder has been sifted; also milk; stir in 
vanilla; fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in three layers, 


in a quick oven. Mrs. Epwarp E. Crane. 
Plain Cake 

5 eggs. 21% cups sugar. 

1 cup sweet milk. 4 cups of flour. 

1 cup butter. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 


Flavor with pineapple, vanilla or lemon. 


Mrs. Cuartes H. Youncer. 


Sponge Cake 

Two eggs, separate eggs, pinch of salt in each; beat yolks 
until thick and lemon-like; beat whites until stiff and dry; take 
one cup of granulated sugar, add gradually to beaten yolks and 
beat well; add one-half cup boiling water very slowly; beat 
well; one cup Swan’s Down flour, sifted three times, and two 
full teaspoons Rumford baking powder added before sifting the 
last time. Beat thoroughly, add beaten whites, and beat again. 
If using large cup, take three eggs. Grease and flour tin with 
pipe in the center, and bake forty-five minutes in a slow oven. 


Mrs. H. E. Groras. 
64 








hen you make cake 


Recipes for many tempting 
and delicious cakes are given 
in ‘Cake Secrets’. A dime 
(in coin or stamps) will 
bring you this famous 
recipe book about which 
a woman recently wrote 
Uist eele wouldnt sell 
mine for a dollarif 1 
knew I couldn't get 
another copy.”’ 


















im a an 


)SWANS DOWN 
Qe 


Preferred by Housewives for 29 years 


YOUR GROCER CAN SUPPLY YOU 


OTHING gives such wonderful 

results in home made cake as 
Swans Down Cake Flour! Try it in 
any good recipe. You can have 
lighter, whiter, finer, betterscaken— 
pie crust—pastry, just as you long 
to have it. 

Swans Down costs only a few 
cents for each cake made and yet it 
saves all the costly waste of cake 
disappointments. 


Swans Down has been the grocers’ 
choice for 29 years. 


IGLEHEART BROTHERS 


Evansville - - - - Indiana 


Established 1856 


Also manufacturers of 
SWANS DOWN WHEAT BRAN 


Nature’s Laxative Food 


GRC 8 tag 1 GE TR) NE cs 8 OO ce a OS oN SPR SD hand thee dh 


Try This Cake Recipe 


DELICIOUS SWANS DOWN CAKE 


¥ cupful butter, or substitute 8 teaspoonfuls baking powder 
1 cupful sugar 14 teaspoonful salt 

22 cupful milk 1 teaspoonful vanilla 

2 cupfuls SWANS DOWN CAKE FLOUR 3 egg whites 


Cream butter, gradually add sugar, creaming mixture well. Sift flour once, measure, 
add baking powder and salt and sift three times. Add the flour and milk alternately to the 
creamed butter and sugar, beating batter hard between each addition of flour and milk. Add 
vanilla extract. Fold in the stifly-beaten egg-whites and bake in a loaf or two layers in a 
moderate oven. Ice as desired. - 


Before attempting to make any cakes in this book, read this article. It may prevent a cake 
failure, thereby saving the waste of ingredients. These are the four most important steps 
in cake-making, and if followed carefully will help you to make really, good cake. 


SELECTING INGREDIENTS 


A good cake cannot be made with pooringredients. For the best results choose only the 
purest materials obtainable. Cake is a food that contains the most nutritive elements, such 
as eggs, butter, milk, sugar, flour, etc. Cake is more delicate than bread and needs a more 
delicate flour. This flour is Swans Down Cake Flour, soft, white, and velvety, made especially ~ 
for cake and pastry making. Swans Down costs but a few cents more per cake and yet it 
insures against disappointment and costly cakefailures. Lighter whiter, finer, better cakes 
if you use Swans Down. 


MEASURING 


Ailingredients called for in any good recipe must be accurately mixed and all measure- 
ments should be level. This is necessary in order to obtain the same results in each baking. 
The standard one-half pint measuring cup should be used and the recipe followed exactly. — 


CAREFUL MIXING ‘ 


Itis necessary in successful cake-making that allingredients be perfectly measured and 
utensils and cake tins be ready before beginning to mix che cake. Always beat the shortening © 
to a cream before adding any sugar. Add sugar gradually, creaming the mixture meanwhile. 
Add a little sifted Swans Down Cake Flour, with baking powder added, then a little milk and 
so on alternately until all the flour and milk are used. Beat the batter, never stirring, after each 
addition of flour and milk. Add flavoring. The stiffly-beaten egg-whites should be next 


bolded in very carefully ir recipe calls for same, Work quickly, but carefully, in mixing your 
cake. 







CORRECT OVEN HEAT 


The heat of oven for cake-making is of very greatimportance. There are some general 
guides for temperature which may be profitably observed. All thin layer, small cakes and 
cookies require a hot oven (350-400° F). Thick layer and cakes baked in a loaf require a mo- 
derate oven (325-375° F) while sponge cakes and angel cakes require a slow oven (250-300° F). 
Fruit cakes require even a slower oven (200-250° F). f 


_ Thehelpfulhints above are taken from ‘‘Cake Secrets,’’ an authoritative booklet on cake- 
making by Janet McKenzie Hill, editor of American Cookery Magazine. You are welcome 
to a copy full of original recipes, directions, illustrations—for 10c sent to Igleheart Brothers, 
Evansville, Indiana, Department C. I. Best grocers everywhere: have Swans Down Cake 
Flour. If you cannot getit, write us. Use itin your cake and pastry making. 


_ _ Always use Swans Down Cake Flour in all cake recipes given in this book and elcewhere 
It insures lighter, whiter, finer cakes. 
























pee i] 4 if 
ihe } 
! , 
( 
y 
U } “ 
, at 
ee.) . 
’ ot 
f 
eae wry tay h 
+ j 
’ i 
| ‘ 
{ 
k 
ae 
i | 
4 y - 
. ‘ ; U oN 
Bact We 
The eae Wind 
wh)! Beas by pug gna wr aR 7 
x 4 m4 
2 Wives 
i eas 
My ty 
Li it 
1 
9 et ay 
" on 
Pune ‘ 
t 
« 
» 
1 
. 
ve 
pate a 
rahi ey 
ae 0) { } \ 
oe Ny yi 
ty t 
, 
J 
> 
\ 
‘ j 
j 
h 
Ne 
fe ta 
\ i. Woy / p 
uy tf s 
4 ie | 
i" ray te Peet SDE Ye Wadi, iy) ) 
Ah Yi ; 
ic jot 
‘ ih 
ie ie i 
; 
MERSIN YT Yl 
OO aay f Ht 
' ‘ bas! ; > 
4 
‘ 
me x 
vf , 
Mei ; 
att 







Ki An iit Rae Reba 
a eet | 








te “ei ifs 
* : ape un iY oe ’ 


de is ond 
2 lead alae 





Try the KNOX GELATINE recipes found in this book 


Angel Cake 
Whites of 8 eggs. 1 teaspoon cream of tartar. 
1 cup sugar. 34 cup flour. 
4 teaspoon salt. 34 teaspoon vanilla, Bee Brand. 


Beat whites of eggs until frothy, add cream of tartar, and 
continue beating until eggs are stiff; then add sugar gradually; 
fold in flour mixed with salt and sifted four times, and add 
vanilla. Bake forty to fifty minutes in an unbuttered angel 
cake pan. After cake has risen and begins to brown, cover with 


a buttered paper. Mrs. T. T. WEttons. 
EKggless Cake 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup milk. 

2 tablespoons butter. 2 cups self-rising flour. 


1 teaspoon flavoring, Bee Brand. 


Mix well and bake in a moderate oven. 
Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 


Plain Cake 
V cup butter. 114 cups sugar. 
Yolk 3 eggs. Whites 3 eggs. 
34 cup water. 2 cups flour. 


2 teaspoons baking powder. 


Cream butter and sugar, add yolks of eggs well beaten; then 
add water and flour alternately. Sift flour and baking powder 
twice; lastly, add beaten whites of eggs. Flavor with vanilla 


or lemon. Mrs. P. B. Macruper. 
Cream Cake 

3 cups pastry flour. 3 level teaspoons baking powder. 

¥ cup butter or other shortening. 114 cups granulated sugar. 

Yolk of 3 eggs. . 34 cup of milk. 

1 teaspoon orange extract. Whites of 3 eggs. 


Sift flour once, then measure, add baking powder and sift 
three times, cream butter and sugar, add well beaten yolks, 
then flour and milk alternately, then extract; beat long and 
hard and fold in lightly the well beaten whites. Bake in layers 
in moderately slow oven. Put together with cream cake filling. 


CREAM CAKE FILLING 
1 egg white. 2 cups confectioners sugar. 
114 tablespoons of whipping cream. 14 teaspoon lemon or other extract. 
Put egg and extract into bowl. Gradually add sugar, beat- 


ing long and hard. This makes a very delicious cake. 
Mrs. H. Buair STEVIOK. 


5 65 


KNOX GELATINE is measured ready for use—two envelopes in 
each package 





Chocolate Cake 


1 cup brown sugar. Y cup milk. 
14 cake chocolate. 1 egg yolk. 
Cook until thickens, then set aside to cool. 
34 cup butter. 1 cup brown sugar. 
4 eggs. 3 cups flour. 
V6 cup milk. 1 teaspoon soda. 
Vanilla. 


Cream butter, add sugar. Beat eggs and add to butter and 
sugar; then add flour and milk alternately; then add chocolate 
mixture; add vanilla, and lastly add soda dissolved in little 


warm water. Mrs. J. E. Sawyer. 
Plain Cake 

14 cup shortening. 1 cup sugar. _ 

1 egg. 1 teaspoon vanilla, Bee Brand. 

1 cup milk. 2 cups flour. 

3 teaspoons baking powder. Vg teaspoon salt. 


Cream shortening; add sugar slowly; add well-beaten egg 
and flavoring; sift together flour, baking powder and salt; add 
to mixture a little at a time, alternately with milk. Bake in 
greased loaf, layer or patty-pans in moderate oven. May also 
be used hot for cottage pudding. Mrs. W. H. Harris. 


Angel Cake 


The whites of eleven eggs, one and one-half cupfuls of granu- 
lated sugar, one cupful of pastry flour, measured after being 
sifted four times; one teaspoonful cream of tartar, one of vanilla 
extract. Sift the flour and cream of tartar together. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, beat the sugar into the eggs and add the 
seasoning and flour, stirring quickly and lightly. Beat until 
ready to put the mixture into the oven. Use a pan that has 
little legs at the top corners, so that when the pan is turned 
upside down after baking, a current of air will pass under and 
over it. Bake for forty minutes in a moderate oven. Do not 
grease the pan. Miss JantE Harrineron. 


Fudge Filling 


2 cups sugar. 2 cups rich milk. 
4 squares chocolate. 4 tablespoons butter. 
1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Mix all ingredients and let stand on back of range until mix- 
ture liquefies. Boil until a soft ball is formed. Beat until 
creamy. Spread between cakes. Mrs. J. HE. Sawyer. 


66 


KNOX GELATINE is economical—one package makes FOUR 
PINTS of jelly 


Devil’s Food Cake 


2 cups sugar 1 cup butter 
34 cup cocoa 1 cup sweet milk 
2% cups flour 
Boil together one cup sugar, three-fourths cup cocoa, one- 
half cup milk, till thick, then cool. Mix with other ingredients 
using one rounding teaspoonful of soda and five eggs keeping 
two whites for filling. Flavor with vanilla. 


FILLING 
134 cups sugar. 1 cup water. 


Cook until you can blow a large bubble, add slowly to the 
whites, well beaten. Beat until thick enough to spread, flavor 
with vanilla. Mrs. D. N. Cavenzss. 


Plain Cake 


Eight eggs, two cups of sugar, beat until light. Then add 
a wine glass of cold water; then one cup of Horsford’s yeast 
powder flour and two cups of plain flour; beat up well three- 
fourths pound of butter and add just before setting in the 
oven. Flavor to suit the taste. Mrs. W. N. SNELLING. 


Spice Cake 


Four eggs, leaving out the whites of two eggs, two cups brown 
sugar, one cup of butter, one of milk, one teaspoon of soda, 
three cups flour, two tablespoons cinnamon, one teaspoon nut- 
meg, one of cloves. For icing, whites of two eggs, two cups 


sugar. Mrs. W. N. SNELLING. 
Chocolate Icing 

4 squares unsweetened chocolate. 114 cups milk. 

11% cup confectioners sugar. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 


Melt chocolate in milk, stirring until thick, add sugar and 
cook until thick, cool, flavor and spread between layers and 
on top of cake. Mrs. Epwarp E. Crane. 


Crumble Tart 


1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
1 cup nut meats. 1 tablespoon flour. 
2 eggs. 1 cup chopped dates. 


Beat eggs first, then mix all together. Bake slowly in loaf 
tin, about forty minutes. Serve with whipped cream. 


Mrs. C. K. Proctor. 
67 


KNOX GELATINE—Economy with highest Quality 





Marble Cake 


WHITE PART 


3 tablespoons butter. 14 cup sugar. 

4 teaspoon lemon extract. 4 cup milk. 

1 cup flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
White of 1 egg. 14 teaspoon salt. 


Cream shortening; add sugar, flavoring and milk, beat well 
and add flour sifted; mix in beaten white of egg. 


DARK PART 
3 tablespoons butter. 14 cup sugar. 
Yolk of 1 egg. ¥% cup milk. 
1 cup flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
4 teaspoon salt. ¥ teaspoon each allspice, nutmeg and 
2 tablespoons cocoa. cinnamon. 


Cream butter, add sugar and egg and mix well, add milk, then 
flour, baking powder, salt, spices and cocoa, which have been 
sifted together. Place batter by spoonfuls alternately in greased 
loaf pan, but do not mix. Mrs. A. D. Savaee. 


Cocoanut Layer Cake 


14 to 34 cup butter. 34 cup cocoanut milk. 
1 cup granulated sugar. 2 cups flour. 
3 eggs. 2 level teaspoons baking powder. 


Mix sugar and butter, creaming until light; add well beaten 
egg yolks then milk and flour, then fold in whites well beaten 
and rest of flour and beat until light and smooth. Pour in 
layer cake tins and bake in a moderate oven about twenty-five 
minutes. 

FILLING FOR ABOVE 


Boil one cup sugar and one-third cup of water until a drop 
hardens in cold water. Remove from fire, have white of an egg 
beaten stiff, then add syrup a few drops at a time beating con- 
stantly. Spread between layers and on top, sprinkle .with 
cocoanut. Mrs. A. D. Savage. 


Mocha Filling and Frosting 


6 tablespoons butter. 4 tablespoons dry cocoa. 
2 cups confectioner’s sugar. 3 tablespoons liquid coffee. 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract, Bee Brand. 

Beat the butter to a cream, adding one cup of the sugar, then 
sift and add the cocoa. Beat well, put in the coffee and re- 
maining sugar and the vanilla. Spread between and on the 
top layers of cake. Miss Rutu Dew. 


68 


KNOX GELATINE is the one dessert for all appetites 


Fruit Cake 
2 pounds raisins. 2 pounds currants. 
1 pound brown sugar. 3/8 pound citron. 
4 level teaspoons baking powder. YY pound butter. 
3 eggs. 44 cup molasses. 
1 cup milk. 7 4 cups flour. 
4 nutmeg grated, Bee Brand. ¥ teaspoon allspice, Bee Brand. 


Cream butter, sugar and eggs, add molasses and milk and 
two cups of flour. Mix fruit with one cup of flour and add 
spices and flavoring. Lastly add cup of flour well sifted with 
baking powder. Bake in slow oven. Mrs. M. D. Srrotusr. 


Sponge Cake 


6 egg yolks. 1 cup sugar. 

1 tablespoon lemon juice. 14 teaspoon salt. 

Grated rind 14 lemon. 2 level teaspoons baking powder. 
Whites 6 eggs. 1 cup flour. 


Beat yolks until thick and lemon colored. Add sugar, grad- 
ually and continue beating, using egg beater. Add lemon juice, 
rind and whites of eggs beaten until stiff and dry. Partiaily 
mix yolks with mixture, remove beater. Carefully cut and fold 
in flour and salt which has been sifted twice. Bake one hour 
in slow oven in angel cake pan. Mrs. M. D. Stroruer. 


Molasses Cake 


1 cup butter. 1 cup sugar. 
1 cup sour milk. 1 cup molasses. 
- 3 cups flour. ¥% cup meal. 
1 teaspoon soda. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 
1 teaspoon ginger. 3 eggs. 


Beat the eggs separately, dissolve the soda in milk. Add 
spices to flour and meal, run through seive. Cream the butter 
and sugar, add the beaten yolks, stir in the molasses, the mill, 
then the flour and spices. Lastly the beaten whites. Bake in 
pound cake pans or in layers. Miss Newuie STEIN. 


Plain Cup Cake 


Five eggs, two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, four cups flour, two teaspoons baking powder, flavor 
to taste. Miss Janre HarrincTon. 


Caramel Filling 


Two cups brown sugar, one cup sweet milk, butter the s1ze 
of a walnut. Cook till it will hair, take up and beat till thick 
and creamy, then spread on cake. Muss Janis HarrineTon. 


69 


See that the name KNOX is on each package of Gelatine you buy 


nn 


Sea Foam Icing 


Two and one-half cups light brown sugar, whites of two eggs 
and water enough to boil sugar until it threads a long thread 
from spoon or until it is very hard in cold water. Stir in 
beaten whites until like putty then flavor with maple. 

Mrs. J. T. Move. 


Lemon Filling 


Two eggs, two cups sugar, and the juice of two lemons. Cook — 
till the consistency of jelly, stirring constantly to keep from 


burning. Miss JANIE HarrineTon. 
Plain Cake 

3 eggs. 4 cup sweet milk. 

114 cups sugar. 4 cup butter. — 

21% cups flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 


Mrs. J. E. Rupy. 


Angel Food Cake 


1 cupful (running over) egg whites. 9 to 11 eggs. 
1 level teaspoonful cream of tartar. 114 cupfuls fine granulated sugar, 


1 cupful Igleheart’s Swans Down (sifted). 
cake flour, sifted five times lf teaspoonful salt. 
before measuring. 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract. 


14 teaspoonful rose or almond extract. 


Pour the egg whites on a large platter, add salt and beat 
with a flat egg beater until foamy. Add cream of tartar and 
continue beating until the eggs are stiff but not dry. Fold in 
the sugar, one tablespoonful at a time. Add flavoring. Fold 
in the flour in the same manner as the sugar. Pour into an 
ungreased patent tin and bake in a very slow oven fifty to sixty 
minutes, increasing heat slightly when cake is almost done. 


Miss Mary D. Grorae. 


Gold Cake 


This may be made from the yolks of the eggs used in the 
angel food. 

Yolk of eight eggs, one and one-fourth cups of sugar, three- 
fourths cup butter, three-fourths cup of water, two and one-half 
cups of flour, two heaping teaspoons of Rumford baking powder. 
Sift flour once, then measure it and add baking powder and 
sift three more times. Cream sugar and butter, beat the yolks 
to a stiff froth and add to the butter and sugar. Stir thor- 
oughly, add water and flour. Beat hard and bake in a stem 
pan about forty minutes. Mrs. H. E. Grores. 


70 


Free cook book offer in each package of Knox Gelatine 


Marble Cake 


Make plain cake, save one-third of batter and add to it one 
and one-half squares melted unsweetened chocolate. Drop by 
spoonfuls into white batter after putting in pan. Bake in 
moderate oven about forty-five minutes. Mrs. W. H. Harris. 


Lemon Cake 


1 cup butter. 1 cup milk. 
2 cups sugar. 3 cups flour. 
3 teaspoons baking powder. Whites of 6 eggs. 


Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the milk, then 
the flour, and baking powders sifted together; fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, bake in layer cake pans, and 
put together with lemon filling. 


LEMON FILLING 
1 lemon all grated. 1 cup sugar. 
Yoiks of 6 eggs. Butter size of an egg. 


Cook until thick, stir while cooking, put on cold. 
Mrs. T. T. Wettions. 


Cream Cake Filling 


One-half pint milk put on to boil, two teaspoons corn starch 
dissolved in a little milk, one-half cup sugar, one egg, one table- 
spoon butter, add to milk. Cook until it thickens, one teaspoon 


vanilla. Spread between layers of cake. 
: Miss Mary D. George. 


Chocolate Layer Cake 


4 cup butter. 1% cups sugar. 
3 eggs. 2 cups flour. 
2 teaspoons baking powder. 34 cup milk. 
1 teaspoon vanilla. 
ICING 
1 cup grated chocolate melted- Beat yolks of 2 eggs. 
over hot water. Y cup milk. 


11% cups sugar. 
Boil seven minutes, add chocolate, stir well, spread between 
and over cake. Mrs. J. E. Rupy. 


Icing For Cocoanut Cake 
3 cups sugar. 2 cups water. 


Boil until it threads, pour over beaten whites of two eggs, 
flavor with juice of one lemon. Miss Ne wire STEIN. 


(cal 


KNOX GELATINE comes in two packages—PLAIN and ACIDU- 
LATED (Lemon Flavor) 





Favorite Cake 


1 cup butter. 21% cups sugar. 

5 cups flour. 4 eggs. 

3 teaspoons cream of tartar. 114 teaspoons soda. 

1 cup sweet milk. Flavor with Bee Brand vanilla. 


Bake one-half of this mixture in two layers and to the re- 
maining batter add two tablespoonsful cocoa which has been 
mixed with two tablespoons boiling water. Season this with 
cinnamon and nutmeg and bake in two layers. 


FILLING FOR FAVORITE CAKE 


2 tablespoonsful butter. 2 cups confectioner’s sugar, (sifted 
3 tablespoonsful milk. well). 
2 tablespoonsful cocoa. 3 tablespoonsful strong coffee. 


1 teaspoonful vanilla, Bee Brand. 


Cream butter, add sugar and cocoa very slowly, also adding 
milk and coffee alternately, add vanilla and beat until light. 


Spread on cake. Mrs. T. T. Wettons. 
Devil’s Food Cake 

¥4 cup butter or substitute. 2 eggs. 

1 cup dark brown sugar. 3 cups Swans Down cake flour. 

1 cup light brown sugar. 14 teaspoon salt. 

% cup sour milk. 1 teaspoon soda. 

72 cup boiling water. 1/4 squares chocolate, melted 

1 teaspoon vanilla, Bee Brand. (or 44 cup cocoa). 


Cream butter, add one cup sugar gradually, creaming mix- 
ture thoroughly. Beat eggs until light, add the other cup of 
sugar to the eggs, mixing well. Add this egg mixture to the 
creamed butter and sugar and beat hard. Sift flour once, 
measure, add salt and sift three times, then add to the first 
mixture alternating with the sour milk, beating batter hard 
after each addition of flour and milk. Into the boiling water 
stir the soda and the melted chocolate or cocoa, and beat into 
the cake mixture. Add vanilla. Bake in three layers in a 
moderate oven. Spread a white icing between the layers and 
on top and sides of cake. Miss Ruth Werartuerty. 


Chocolate Icing 


3 cups sugar. 114 cups milk. 
Pinch of salt. Butter the size of a walnut. 
1 cup cocoa or grated chocolate. l4 cup flour mixed and dissolved in 


hot milk or water. 


Boil all together until a drop will form a hard ball when 
tested in cold water. One teaspoon of any flavoring and nuts 
if desired may be added. Put between layers and on top. 

Mrs. U. B. Atexanprr. 
72 


| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 


RUMF | RD Wholesome POWDER 


Is your bake day a pleasure, or an anxiety? 


Rumford makes bake days an unqualified delight to 
thousands of successful, happy housewives, because Rum- 
ford results in real baking perfection. 


Pure in quality, of uniform leavening strength and sure 
dependability, Rumford raises the food just right, bringing 
out the rich, delicious flavor of the materials used. 


Rumford-raised foods are always light, moist, fine- 
grained, easy to digest. In efficiency, wholesomeness and 
economy, Rumford has led for over a quarter of a century. 


FREE —Let us send you, free, a copy of our helpful cook 
book: ‘‘The Rumford Modern Methods of Cooking.’’ 


THE RUMFORD COMPANY, Providence, R. I 


1 eH eH eH SH he Hh HHH NH HN ft HH 2 eH NH OT OES 


See enh en fl hoo =o dae Boel econ aes nan UR eseneearnNeo EE ooeEs exam 9] enone [|] comment > 


01h th 1 fh eH Ne Hm fh He tm See OO eee eee A cnet ome 


* 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
+ 


JOHN C. BRANTLEY 


DRUGGIST 


Masonic Temple Raleigh, N. C. 
Phone 15 


Ce ee ee ee ee 
OF 1 ee tf me mt He he 


+ 
| 
| 


i iclophone 5 7 0 for F ene 


FOR EVERY OCCASION 


Whether it be congratulation, esteem or sympathetic sor- 
row, FLOWERS sent at the right time convey your mes- 
sage. Let us fill your next order. 


J. H. MARTIN, Florist 


East Lane Street Raleigh, N. C. 


10 i ee ff ce ff ff a 


OF tt te te 
ofe Se ts 2) 


KNOX GELATINE makes Desserts, Salads, Candies, Puddings, 
Ices, Etc. 





COOKIES AND DOUGHNUTS 


Molasses Gingerbread 


1 cup molasses. 1 cup sugar. 
4 cup shortening. 1 cup water. 
1 teaspoon ginger, Bee Brand. 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in water. 


4 teaspoon cinnamon, Bee Brand. 4 cups flour. 


Stir molasses, sugar, shortening and spices together thor- 
cughly, then add water and flour; stir hard, bake in greased pan. 
Mrs. U. B. ALExanper. 


Hermits 
1 cup sugar. 1 teaspoon Bee Brand allspice. 
2/3 cup lard. 1 teaspoon Bee Brand cinnamon. 
2 eggs. 1 cup currants or raisins. 
2 cups flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 


Cream butter and sugar, add eggs well beaten, add dry in- 
gredients sifted together, then currants or raisins. Bake as 
drop cakes or in muffin rings. Mrs. C. E. Guewn. 


Walnut Cakes 


1 cup walnut meats (finely cut) 2 cups sugar. 
3 eggs. 6 tablespoons flour. 

Beat eggs thoroughly, add sugar, flour and nuts. Drop by 
spoonfuls on buttered tin. Bake in hot oven. 


Mrs. C. E. Grenn. 


Tea Cakes 
3 pints flour. 3 heaping teaspoons baking powder. 
2 cups sugar. 3 eggs beaten together. 
4 cup of milk. 1 large cup of butter or lard melted. 
it peerage Bee Brand vanilla and 14 teaspoon Bee Brand cinnamon. 
emon. 

Roll thin, cut, sprinkle sugar and cinnamon, hot oven, cook 

quick. Mrs. J. B. Marrin. 
Cookies 

72 pound butter. 84 pounds sugar. 
3 eggs beaten lightly. 2 teaspoons Rumford baking powder. 
5 cups of flour. Juice and grating of 1 lemon. 

Save out a bit of the egg and brush over tops of cookies and 
sprinkle with sugar. Mrs. T. T. Wettons. 


74 





BEE BRAND 
VANILLA 


Made from selected Mexican Vanilla 
Beans, the finest grown—and is 23% | 
stronger than the U.S. Government re- | 
quirements. Candies, Cakes, Puddings, | 
etc., are dependent on 
the flavoring used. Use — 
BEE BRAND Vanilla 
and other flavors and 
run no risk of failure. 


BEE BRAND 


SPICES 


Clean, full strength ESTEE 
from the finest Spices } BALTIMORE.MD.U.S"A. 
the world produces. 


Use BEE BRAND Spices and get the finest flavor. 
Absolutely Pure—Highest Quality 


McCormick & Co., Inc. 


BALTIMORE, MD. 
Spice Importers and Grinders 


LEE 
Doughnuts 


WIR 


Q M<CORMICKECOS 





MAMUFACTURING CHEMISTS 


BALTIMORE US AL 








3 eggs. l cup sugar. 
3 cups sifted flour. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 
Flavor with Bee Brand nutmeg or cinnamon. Knead into 


stiff dough, roll out, cut and fry in hot grease. 
| Mrs. T. J. Herrine. 


Tea Cakes 
4 eggs. 2 cups sugar. 
¥ cup butter or lard. 1 quart flour. 
Work well together and roll out and cut, bake in a moderate 
oven. Mrs. Cuartes H. YOuNGER. 


75 


Knox Sparkling Gelatine makes dainty desserts for dainty people 


Oatmeal Drop Cookies 


1 cup granulated sugar. 1/3 teaspoon salt. 

14 cup shortening (lard or butter). 1% teaspoon soda. 

1 egg. 2 cups flour. . 

4 cup raisins (chopped). 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 cup rolled oats. 14 teaspoon Bee Brand cinnamon. 


Sift baking powder, soda, salt and cinnamon with flour, add 
shortening, egg, milk, and rolled oats. Drop on buttered pans 
with teaspoon, then wet fingers and flatten down. 


Mrs. P. B. Maarunper. 


Ginger Snaps 


7 pounds of flour. 2 ounces cinnamon. 
14 gallon molasses. 2 ounces spices. 

34 pound lard. 1 ounce cloves. 

1 cup of ground ginger. lg cup soda. 


114 pounds of brown sugar. 


Mix flour with all dry ingredients. Then work in lard, 
molasses and fill cup of soda with boiling water and work into 
a dough and pack in jar or large bowl and will keep for weeks 
and you can cook them any time. Mrs. Frep ALLEN. 


Oatmeal Cookies 


11% cups sugar. 34 cup butter. 

21% cups oatmeal 2 cups flour. 

34 cup milk. 1 cup raisins. 

3 eggs. 1 teaspoon Bee Brand cinnamon. 

34 teaspoon soda. meri Rumford baking pow- 
er. 


Cream butter and sugar, add eggs well beaten, then add the 
milk, flour, oatmeal, soda and baking powder and then the 
cinnamon. Beat well, roll on floured board and cut with 
biscuit cutter, place in greased pan and bake in quick oven. 

Miss Ruta WeatTHeErty. 


Tea Cakes 
Y cup butter. Y cup lard. 
1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 
1 teaspoonful baking powder. V4 teaspoonful soda. 
3 tablespoons buttermilk. (Enough flour to work together and roll, 


about one quart.) 


Cream butter, lard and sugar, then add eggs, mix baking 
powder, soda and milk, then work together. Bake in greased 
pan. Miss Rutu Rieean. 


76 


Give the growing children Knox Sparkling Gelatine 
(bet cee snip de SMa all ella lM DS lc RN Rl 


Soft Gingerbread 


1 cup molasses. lg cup sugar. 

Y% cup butter. 16 cup milk. 

2 eggs. 1 tablespoon ginger, Bee Brand. 
1 teaspoon allspice, Bee Brand. 2 cups flour. 


11% teaspoons baking powder. 
Bake in shallow pans in moderate oven. 


Mrs. A. D. Savage. 


Spice Cakes 
3 tablespoons shortening. 4 tablespoons sugar. 
34 cup corn syrup or molasses. 1 egg. 
4 cup milk. 2 cups flour. 
3 teaspoons baking powder. 4 teaspoon salt. 
1 teaspoon cinnamon, Bee Brand. 14 teaspoon spice. 
14 teaspoon nutmeg, Bee Brand. 14 teaspoon cloves. 


4 cup chopped raisins. 
These little individual spice cakes, baked in muffin tins are 
very good. Miss Ruta WratuHeErty. 


Doughnuts (Sour Milk) 


2 eggs. 1 quart flour. 

1 cup sugar. 1 cup sour milk or cream. 

1 teaspoon soda. 1 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon melted butter. Season to taste, using Bee Brand 
14 teaspoon Bee Brand cinnamon vanilla or nutmeg. 


Put the flour, cinnamon, baking powder, and sugar into a 
bowl. Dissolve the soda in one tablespoonful of hot water. 
Add to the sour milk and then add the melted lard. Beat the 
egos until light and add to the milk. Add the wet ingredients 
to the dry. Roll out to one-fourth inch thickness, cut, and fry 
in deep fat. Do not put in more than five doughnuts at a 
time or the fat will be cooled too greatly. Let the fat re-heat 
between fryings. Turn the doughnuts while frying; drain on 
plain paper. Makes three dozen doughnuts. 

Sweet milk may be used in place of sour milk by using two 
teaspoons baking powder in place of soda. 

Miss Ruta WEaATHERLY. 


Doughnuts 
2 cups flour. 4 teaspoon salt. 
Yo cup sugar. 144 teaspoon Bee Brand cinnamon. 


Y cup milk. 1 egg. 
| About 3 tablespoons butter. 

Beat egg, add sugar, butter and milk, then flour sifted with 
baking powder and salt. Make the dough as soft as can be 
handled. Take a small portion, roll out one-half inch thick, fry — 
in deep hot fat. Mrs. T. T. WELtons. 


ae 


Knox Sparkling Gelatine improves Soups and Gravies 


Ginger Bread 


3 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 
1 cup molasses. 1 cup butter. 
3 cups flour. 1 cup sour milk. 
2 teaspoons ginger. 2 teaspoons cinnamon. 
1 teaspoon cloves. 2 teaspoons soda. 
Bake in moderate oven. Miss Janre Harrineron. 
Wonders 
1 egg. 14 teaspoon salt. 


About 34 cup flour. 

Beat the egg, add salt and enough flour to make a stiff dough, 
about three-fourths cup will usually be sufficient. Roll out on 
a floured board till as thin as a wafer and cut with a large 
round cutter. Drop separately into hot fat, fry golden brown, 
drain well and dust with powered sugar. Sugar may be omitted 


when served hot with butter. Miss Ruto Dew. 
Doughnuts 

lf cup shortening. 2/3 cup sugar. 

2 eggs. 14 cup milk. ; 

31% cups flour. 2/4 teaspoons baking powder. 

1 teaspoon cinnamon. 4 teaspoon nutmeg. 


1 teaspoon salt. 
Miss Mitprep H. Smiru. 


Cookies 
1 pound sugar. 14 pound lard. 
3 eggs. ¥ teaspoon lemon extract. 


Empty in bowl and mix, add one teaspoon soda, one-fourth 
pint sweet, sour or butter milk, stir, add two pounds flour, mix 
well, roll, cut, and brush with milk and eggs mixed, then dip in 
cocoanut, and bake. To keep dough for any length of time, 
wet paper and cover dough. Set in ice box. 

Mrs. Epwarp E. Crane. 


Sugar Cookies 


4 cup butter. 1 cup sugar. 

2 eggs. 2 cups flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 14 teaspoon salt. 

1 tablespoon milk. 1 agua lemon or vanilla, Bee 
rand. 


Cream butter and sugar, add well beaten eggs, sift flour, 
baking powder and salt together and add to mixture milk and 
flavoring. If dough it not stiff enough to roll add more flour, 
turn out on floured board and roll thin, cut in fancy shapes. 
Bake in moderate oven. Mrs. S. M. Swan. 


78 


Ask your grocer for Knox Gelatine—take no other 





MUFFINS AND WAFFLES 


Corn-Meal Muffins 


1 cup corn meal. 1 cup flour. 
1 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon sugar. 
4 teaspoon soda. 11% cups milk. 


2 tablespoons melted butter. 


Sift the meal, flour, salt and sugar. Stir soda in milk, then 
add the dry ingredients, then the melted butter. Beat well 
and bake in oiled muffin tins twenty-five or thirty minutes. 

Miss JnanettE CrowbeEr. 


Corn-Meal Muffins 


14 cup corn meal 1 tablespoon melted butter. 
1 cup flour. 14 teaspoon salt. 

3 teaspoons baking powder. 34 cup milk (sweet). 

1 tablespoon sugar. 1 egg. 


Mix and sift dry ingredients, add the milk gradually, then the 
ege well beaten, and the melted butter. Bake in a hot oven 
in buttered gem pans for twenty-five minutes. 

Miss Ruta WeatHeERLy. 


Muffins 
1 cup flour. 1 cup meal. 
1 cup milk. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
14 teaspoon salt. 2 eggs. 
1 tablespoon shortening. 1 tablespoon brown sugar. 


Mix and beat well. Drop small piece of shortening in each 
ring and get very hot. Pour into rings and bake in quick 


oven. Mrs. R. E. Prince. 
Wafiles 

1 cup flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 

V4 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons melted butter. 

1 pint milk. 2 eggs. 


Sift together the flour, salt and baking powder, add the yolks 
of the eggs and milk, beating well so as to make a smooth 
batter. Stir in the melted butter and at the last moment put 
in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in hot, well 
greased waffle irons, turning the cakes just as soon as possible 


after the batter is put in all the compartments. 
Mrs. T. T. WELtons. 


79 


KNOX GELATINE is GUARANTEED to please or money back 





Griddle Cakes 


Two cups wheat flour, one egg, put in flour, pinch of salt, 
good teaspoon of butter or lard, one teaspoon sugar, stir all to- 
gether, add one cup sweet milk or water. Beat well, last of all 
add one heaping teaspoon of baking powder. Stir in good 
and bake on hot griddle. Serves six persons. 


Mrs. H. E. Geroraes. 


Waffles 
1 pint of milk. 2 eggs. 
2 tablespoons butter. 1 teaspoon cream of tartar. 
4 teaspoon soda. 11% pints of flour (scant). 


14 teaspoon salt. 


Beat eggs very lightly, add milk and butter, which has been 
dissolved in two tablespoons of boiling water. Stir in flour 


with soda and cream of tartar. Mrs. A. D. Savage. 
Rice Muffins 

1 cup boiled rice. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 

1 cup milk. 2 teaspoons butter. 

1 cup flour. 2 eggs. 


Melt butter, add to milk, add beaten yolks. of eggs to rice and 
mix this with flour, add milk gradually, beating until light 
and smooth. Add baking powder and pinch of salt to batter 
and fold in whites of eggs beaten stiff. Bake in hot greased 
muffin rings. Mrs. U. B. Atexanper. 


Muffins (Plain Egg) 


2 cups flour. V4 teaspoon salt. 
3 teaspoons baking powder. 1 egg. 
4 tablespoons sugar. 4 tablespoons melted butter. 


34 cup milk 
Mix and sift the dry ingredients, separate the egg, beat the 
yolk slightly and the white to a stiff froth. Add the milk, 
beaten yolk and melted butter to the dry ingredients. Fold in 
the stiffly beaten white. Bake in buttered muffin pans twenty- 
five minutes. Miss Ruta W#atTHeERty. 


Cream Muffins 


114 cups flour. 1/3 teaspoon salt. 
3 teaspoons baking powder. 2 eggs. 
14 cup melted shortening. 2/3 cup milk. 


Beat eggs well, add milk, then dry ingredients (sifted). Lastly 
add melted shortening. Bake in well greased muffin rings in 
hot oven. Makes nine muffins. Mrs. C. E. Grenn. 


80 





































A Anish 5 Wetion ca % fi ; leah SAIN Simtel a ge TA Nit Yc) i 


F aie ede anata si 


sh We ed eR 
Pe Re ME IE 2 aba. 
SE) ee ” ih pant 


Rane ) PRN th Aya, 


bali: a ‘ ny ot Ark i int ; 

t wae he ee fie i Hap eS ANT. A wit) 9 foo 
sailtet it. rh a eee Bee AE ae an: hae 
OF ne Uri ete i fhe Rea, tet bike ORE Ba 
wats: bua BR hich, Fink ht . 


mes at pd yeas} RAO, PN Py AS 


Alera (ee a tte ’ iy ha 
iy WAN Ag kd: Wret atlies, 
“a ‘ ray 


ek. 








il reaps i 


“ey fe LL et 40 Rey: ~* bf Rage ie eu . pe ie I 
hy te x sauna rtd ee : 


ay arti ayee ue Meni Cb auyih { ERR, APN 


Nor bi Pod cidy Sats PPIs ie Wie hah 





oa. Ba! Hey cE: 
i he te ly Pema OKO Ch anaes 


ins lg MUeRh 


me a i. Ayden pr ae 
ye ate 7 | 


; By Rat hes var! bar 5 th 

‘se tohl HAD, cao eave 

j Viet . 
Pinatas Wd ots Vay nit i de, ined 
ie Hi nek TOBRAS ila won eure . 


1a Sha 


bh (ht gh biveak ud, BOM eet ice 


1 dat aka ike 
Mt re ee eablon i bia i ws 
He Nita ae. Yee Rh r 
BING secs mann’ PL a Ai rnd, a Rt 
i fe pie ses lig, abe he Anep ig 
| 5 ae kM, uf Bis aR aM 











ah ren seat ‘ae 
tal a a td 











A Gah Wea ae Be 
‘ ee, ’ 
(' ek ‘ eee s 
‘ls Seite : 
' | em 
' 


A) obee 





The KNOX ACIDULATED package contains Lemon Flavoring 


Wafiles 
3 eggs. 1 pint sifted flour. 
1 pint sweet milk. 2 teaspoonsful baking powder. 
4 pound melted butter. Salt to taste. 


Break eggs in bowl, beat light, put in small amount of flour 
with baking powder sifted in it. Then half of milk, next put 
in rest of flour and all of butter and last add balance of milk. 
This makes six large wafiles and they are fine. 

Mrs. W. R. Dorsett. 


Drop Dumplings 
1 cup flour. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
4 teaspoon salt. 
Use enough water to make dough drop from spoon, put high 
on top of meat in pot. If too much broth pour out some. Boil 
twenty minutes without removing cover. 


Miss Mary D. Grorae. 


One Egg Muffin 


2 cups flour. 4 teaspoons baking powder. 
14 teaspoon salt. 1 egg. 
2 tablespoons sugar. 1 cup sweet milk. 


2 tablespoons butter 


Mix and sift dry ingredients, add gradually milk, egg well 
beaten and melted butter. Bake in buttered muffin rings. 
Mrs. C. K. Proctor. 


Sally Lunn 

1 or 2 eggs. 3 tablespoons butter. 
1 cup milk. 2 cups flour (or 244). 
1 teaspoon sugar. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Beat well, turn into greased pan and bake about twenty-five 
minutes in moderate oven. Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 

Wafiles 1 

2 cups flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 
1 tablespoon sugar. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 
3 tablespoons melted shortening. 144 cups milk or milk and water 
2 eggs. mixed. 


Sift flour, salt, sugar and baking powder together, add beaten 
eges and milk gradually, mix well, add melted shortening. Bake 
on an evenly heated, well greased wafile iron. Serve with syrup, 
butter or honey. 


This batter can be used for making hot cakes. 
Mrs. W. P. Berts. 


6 81 


Use KNOX GELATINE if you would be sure of results 


fo ti —eotttomet Hoc} fs ff seme aco me 1D 


Bo 1h mee 1) th hmm He ff Ha He hf Nm Hm me Hh ee Hee ft Hm He me Hmm 


Hyacinths, Tulips 
Fresh Cut B lowers Jonquils and other 
Floral Designs Bulbs for Fall Planting 


. Evergreens and 
Wedding F lowers Flowering Shrubs 


Decorations for all Occasions 


H. STEINMETZ 


Phone 113 FLORIST 


419 commen ff )f mesic ff J} memes fj }} commen ff ]] rome ff }) commune fj }) cmc ff ]j exam J) ] comme 9 |) mmm ff] semen ff] ome if] commen 9 | mmm |} | comms FY }] cece ff} cco ff} | comme fff} cme ff J} comme fj }} oem fj ff come |! 





0 mm th mm Hm tN Nt ee Hh Hom 


Butter Cakes 


21% cups flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 
4 teaspoons baking powder. 2 eggs. 
3 tablespoons shortening. 1 cup sweet milk. 


Sift flour, salt and baking powder together, rub shortening 
in with the finger tips, beat egg yolks and add milk, pour 
gradually on the flour. Mix to a soft dough, fold im stiffly 
beaten whites. Turn out on floured board. Roll out three- 
fourths of an inch thick, cut with biscuit cutter. Bake on a 
moderately hot, well greased griddle. After cakes have risen 
and browned on one side turn over and brown on the other. 
Or it may be dropped in small spoonfuls on the griddle and 


baked. Mrs. H. E. Grorae. 
Wafiles 2 

11% cups flour. 14 cup cooked cereal. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon sugar. 

3 tablespoons melted shortening. 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

114 cups milk. 2 eggs. 


Sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar, beat eggs and cereal 
together, add to other ingredients. Mix in milk and melted 
shortening. Serve with butter and syrup. 


Mrs. W. P. Betts. 


Maryland Sally Lunn 


2 tablespoons sugar. 14 teaspoon salt. 
11% tablespoons butter. 2 teaspoons baking powder. 
3 eggs. 2 cups flour. 


1 cup sweet milk. 


Bake about forty minutes. 
Miss Mitprep H. Smirn. 


82 


All you add is water and sugar to the Knox Acidulated Package 





PIE CRUST AND PIES 


Lemon Custard 


4 eggs. — 2 cups sugar. 
Grated rind and juice of 2lemons. _1 tablespoon butter. 
Enough for two custards. Mrs. C. D. Luavistsr. 


Sweet Potato Custard 


Boil and mash fine about three large potatoes, make custard 
of three eggs, one and one-half cups sugar and butter about 
size of large egg, little salt and flour and flavoring. Mix all 
well and bake in bottom crust. You may use the yolks of one 
or two eggs in the pies and make meringue of the whites if 
desired. Mrs. U. B. ALexanper. 


Lemon Custard 


114 cup sugar. 2 heaping tablespoons of flour. 


Grated rind of 2 lemons. Yolks of 3 well beaten eggs. 
Juice of lemons. 1 cup milk. 
1 cup water. Butter size of walnut. 


Cook in double boiler till real thick and spread on crust. 
Mrs. W. I. Wextons. 


Buttermilk Custard 


114 cups fresh buttermilk. 1 cup sugar. 
1 teaspoon of melted butter. 1 tablespoon of flour. 
1 egg. 


Mix the flour in a little of the buttermilk. Bake in a quick 
oven on bottom crust. Flavor with nutmeg or any desired 
flavoring. 


Plain Pastry 


1 cup flour. 14 teaspoon baking powder. 
14 teaspoon salt. Cold water. 


Sift flour, baking powder and salt together. Cut in shorten- 
ing with two knives, add enough water to hold together. Don’t 
knead. Makes pastry for a small two-crust ple. 


Mrs. W. P. Betts. 
Pie Crust 


Sift flour and a little salt together, rub in cold lard thor- 


oughly and mix into a dough with a well beaten egg. Roll thin. 
Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 


83 


PTT oe yin) Re ae a SITE Es See ea ee eee af 
| : 
| Exclusive Hat Shop | 
1 | 
Latest Creations in 
i Ladies’ Millinery 
New Odd Fellows Building Phone 2876 | 
een tt ttt + 
ttt tH ’ 
i Everything for Your Garden | 
| SEEDS PLANTS BULBS | 
| £ 
| JOB P. WYATT & SONS CO. 
RALEIGH, N. C. 
| Fruit Jars Ice Cream Freezers Tin Cans | 
| Lawn Mowers Garden Tools Wire Fence =: 
| Send your name for our catalogues 
Fo tt tm } 


Uc ff [comme ff ff] cmmmmen ff ff emcee ff} emcee ff [fee || || eam ff | omen | |] memes ff || oom (Ef eocmece ff ff comme ff ff comme [ff comme | ff commence ff |f emmsmmn ff ff comme fj ff comemasam jf ff comme $f fj exam (| }f em ff | omen |} 


Campbell-Warner Co. 


ob 

J 

| 

| 

| e , e 

i Monuments Memorials Iron Fencing 
| BUY FROM RELIABLE MANUFACTURERS 

| 
i 
| 
oy 


210-12 S. West St. Raleigh, N.C. 
PHONE 1131 

110 cme i a ff ef ff Hf eff] ef i ff ff} em ff fff fH ef Hf ff cf Hf oY ff fH ee jf | me ff | of 
* {foe ff} em ff em mH Hf ff a Hf ff ff ff | ff fH ff fe |] eff Hm | <a fff | He tH mf fl +} 
| B. B. BENSON, President J. J. BARNES, Sec.-Treas. | 
t T. B. WARD, Vice-President W. H. BASON, Sales Manager | 
| = 
i CAROLINA BUILDERS CORPORATION | 
| Jobbers and Distributors 
| All Kinds of Building Material i 
| RALEIGH, N. C. i 
| Warehouse and Yard: 217 NORTH DAWSON ST. =z 
2 217-19 N. Dawson St. | 
| 307-9 W. Lane St. TELEPHONE 2360 2 
Rope pee b 


co 
Lad 


For Dainty, Delicious Desserts, use Knox Gelatine 


Pie Crust 
1 large cup flour. 2 good tablespoons shortening. 
3 tablespoons cold water. Pinch salt. 


Work flour, salt and shortening together with tips of fingers, 
add ice water little at a time, don’t knead much. This makes 
a one-crust pie. Mrs. H. E. Groren. 


Chess Custards 


4 eggs. 1 cup sugar. 
1 lemon. 1 tablespoon flour. 
14 cup boiling water. 

Beat yolk of eggs, add sugar and flour. Then lemon, lastly 
add boiling water, cook in double boiler and when thick add 
whites of eggs well beaten. Then pour in baked pie crust and 
return to the oven for a few minutes. 

Miss Ruta WEaAtTHERLY. 


Pineapple Pie 


1 large can pineapple. 3 eggs. 
2 tablespoons butter. 1 cup sugar. 
Juice of pineapple. 2 tablespoons cornstarch. 


Mix juice of pineapple, yolks of eggs, sugar, butter and corn- 
starch in saucepan, and cook until thick, add pineapple, spread 
on pie crust and cook. 

MERINGUE 


Three eggs whites, six tablespoons sugar. Put on pies and 
brown. This will make two large pies. Miss Berrie Ruru. 


Pie Paste 
3 cups flour. 14 level teaspoon salt. 
1 level teaspoon baking powder. 4 cup butter. 
V4 cup lard. Cold water. 


Sift dry ingredients together thoroughly, work in lard. Mix 
into smooth paste, flour the board, roll thin, spread butter 
on evenly, fold in three; roll out thin again, fold in three, re- 
peat twice more and use. Mrs. H. Bratz STEvIcK. 


Molasses Pie 


1 cup molasses. Seant 14 cup sugar (brown preferred). 
2 eggs. 1 tablespoon corn meal. 
1 teaspoon vanilla. A pinch of cinnamon. 


Butter size of hickory nut. 


Beat eggs light, add molasses and sugar, melted butter and 
flavoring, mix well. Bake with one crust. 


Mrs. W. P. Betts. 
85 


Dainty Recipes in each Knox Gelatine package | 





1 econ fi ff me ff ff comma ff ff commen ff ff mm fff exc ff ff came fff exam ff ff comme ff emmmmnnes ff ff mms fff emf fm ff ff mmm ff com> ff mmm ff ff commen ff come ff ff emma ff ermamome ff | mem ff ff em ff 


B. W. KILGORE, Pres. LAYMAN KISER, Sec. & Mgr. CLYDE D. LISK, Treas. 


Pine State Creamery Co. 


Manufacturers and Distributors of 


DAIRY PRODUCTS 


Pasteurized Milk, Cream, Butter, Cheese 
and Ice Cream 
Raleigh, North Carolina 


Fatt tm te ftom tt mm gh 
of NH HN I HT OED 


Pineapple Pie 


A grated pineapple. Its weight in sugar. 
Half its weight in butter. 1 cupful of cream. 
5 eggs. 


Beat the butter to a creamy froth, add the sugar and yolks 
of the eggs. Continue beating until very hght, add the cream, 
the pineapples grated, and the whites of the eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. Bake with an under crust. Eat cold. 

Mrs. J. E. Sawyer. 


Raisin Pie 


2 cups raisins. 2 cups cold water. 
4 tablespoons cornstarch. 14 teaspoon salt. 
2 tablespoons sugar. 2 tablespoons grated lemon rind. 


Cover raisins with one cup of water and bring slowly to 
boiling point. Mix cornstarch, salt and sugar with remaining 
cup of water and add to boiling raisins, stirring constantly. 
Allow to boil ten minutes. Add lemon and cover with pastry. 
Bake in hot oven ten minutes. Then cook slowly until a good 
brown. Mrs. P. B. Macruper. 


Lemon Cream Pie 


4 eggs. 2 heaping tablespoons flour. 
1 cup sugar. Grated rind and juice of 2 lemons. 
114 cups boiling water. 

Beat yolk and whites of eggs separately. To beaten yolks 
add sugar, flour, lemon juice and rind, and lastly boiling water. 
Cook in a double boiler and when it begins to thicken, add to 
it one-half of beaten whites. Stir this in thoroughly and let it 
cook until it is as thick as desired. Use the remainder of egg 
whites for the meringue on top of pie. After custard has cooled 
fill a baked shell of pie paste, pile meringue on top and bake 
in a very slow oven until meringue is brown. 

Mrs. H. Briar Stevicx. 
86 


KNOX GELATINE is highest quality and worth its price 





Lemon, Pie 


4 eggs. 114 cups sugar. 
2/3 cups water. 2 tablespoons flour. 
1 lemon. 


Beat yolks of eggs until very smooth. Add grated peeling 
of lemon and the sugar. Beat well, stir in flour and add lemon 
juice (use two lemons if small), add lastly the water. When 
baked, spread over pies the whites of the eggs beaten dry with 
four tablespoons of sugar. This recipe calls for two pies. 


Mrs. J. E. Rupy. 


Pineapple Meringue Pie 


Mix one-half cup sugar, one-eighth teaspoon salt, two table- 
spoons cornstarch and slowly add one and one-half cups hot 
milk. Cook in double boiler until thick. (About thirty min- 
utes.) Pour into two egg yolks. Return to boiler and cook 
until egg thickens (three minutes). Cook and add one cup well 
drained crushed or grated pineapple, and half teaspoon vanilla. 
Pour into a baked crust and cover with a meringue made of 
two stiffly beaten egg whites and two tablespoons powdered sugar. 
Brown quickly in a hot oven. Mrs. W. L. Nevins. 


Lemon Pie 


o eggs. 2 cupfuls sugar. 
1 cup water. 2 tablespoons flour. 
2 lemons. 


Beat yolks of three and two whole eggs until very light, add 
grated peel of one lemon and sugar, stir the flour in a little 
water, add it and the lemon juice, then the water, pour in pie 
pans lined with good paste. When baked, spread over them 
the whites beaten smooth with four tablespoons of pulverized 


sugar. Mrs: M. M, Murcuison. 
Lemon Pie 

1 heaping tablespoon cornstarch. 1 cup sugar. 

1 scant cup boiling water. 1 teaspoon butter. 

Juice of 1 large lemon. 2 eggs. 


Mix cornstarch with sugar, add boiling water and boil five 
minutes. Add butter, lemon juice and yolks of eggs well beaten. 
Bake in one crust. When done make a meringue of the eggs 
beaten until stiff, two tablespoons of powdered sugar and one- 
half tablespoon lemon juice, spread on top of pie and bake 
over a low flame fifteen minutes. Mrs. W. J. Ricnarpson. 


87 


KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE saves the cost, time and bother 
of squeezing lemons 


Lemon Custard 


5 eggs, seperate whites. 1 cup sugar. 
1 lemon (juice). 2 tablespoons butter. 
2 tablespoons cornstarch. 1 cup water. 


Mix ingredients and cook over slow fire or double boiler until 
thick custard. Beat the whites very stiff and fold one-fourth 
into the custard. Cook two crusts and then pour custard into 
them. Add two tablespoons sugar to remaining whites and 
spread over custard and brown in quick oven. 


Mrs. R. E. Prince. 


Cream Pie 


3 eggs. 1 cup sugar. i 
114 cups flour. 1 tablespoonful sweet milk. 


11% teaspoonfuls baking powder. 


Beat together thoroughly and bake in round cake plates. 
When ready to use, split open and fill with cream. 

For the cream take one pint milk, three-fourths cup sugar, 
two eggs, teaspoonful vanilla, three tablespoonfuls flour, pinch 
salt. When milk begins to boil add other ingredients which 
have previously been well mixed and boil slowly a few minutes, 


stirring constantly. Mrs. J. W. Weaver. 
Apple Pie 

11% cups flour. 114 teaspoons Rumford Baking pow- 

Y% teaspoon salt. der. 

1/3 cup shortening. Cold water. 


4 apples, or 1 quart sliced apples. 4 tablespoons sugar. 
1 tablespoon butter. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt; add shortening and rub 
in very lightly; add just enough water to hold dough together. 
Roll half out on floured board, line bottom of pie plate; fill 
in apples, which have been washed, pared and cut into thin 
slices; sprinkle with sugar, and small pieces of butter; flavor 
with cinnamon or nutmeg; wet edges of crust with cold water ; 
roll out remainder of pastry; cover pie, pressing edges tightly 
together, trim off extra pastry; prick top, and bake in moderate 
oven thirty minutes. Miss Maser Day. 


Cocoanut Pies 


Grate cocoanut and make a custard as for plain egg custard 
or omit part of milk and use cocoanut milk, adding a little 
more flour to thicken. Mrs. U. B. Arzxanper. 


88 


Try KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE with the Lemon Flavor 
enclosed 





Orange Pie Filling 


1 cup sugar. 1/3 cup flour. 

14 teaspoon salt. Grated rind of 1 Sunkist orange. 
1 cup orange juice. Juice 14 lemon. 

2 tablespoons butter. 3 egg yolks. 


Mix sugar, flour, salt and grated rind; add fruit juice, and 
cook in double boiler ten minutes, stirring until thickened, and 
afterwards, occasionally. Add butter and egg yolks beaten 
light; cook two minutes, and cool. Put in a crust that has 
been baked on the outside of a tin pie plate. Cover with eight- 
minute meringue and bake. Miss Rutu Dew. 


Pineapple Meringue Pie 


Mix one-half cup sugar, teaspoon salt, two tablespoons corn- 
starch, and slowly add one and one-half cups hot milk. Cook 
in double boiler until thick (about forty minutes), pour this 
into two egg yolks, return to boiler and cook until eggs thicken 
(about three minutes). Cool and add one cup well drained 
pineapple and one-half teaspoon vanilla. Pour into baked crust 
and cover with meringue, made of two stiffly beaten whites of 
egg and two tablespoons powdered sugar. Brown quickly in a 
hot oven. Mrs, A. P. Hepricx. 


Cocoanut Pie 


1 can grated cocoanut 34 cup sugar. 
2 tablespoons cornstarch. 3 egg yolks. 

Use one cup milk, cocoanut milk, and fill up with sweet milk. 
Put sugar, cornstarch, milk and eggs in saucepan, cook until 
it becomes thick, then add grated cocoanut, spread on crust and 
bake. 

MERINGUE 

Whites of three eggs, six tablespoons sugar. Blend whites 
and sugar well, spread on pie and brown. This will make 
two small or one large pie. Miss Bertie Ruru. 


Apple Pie 


Stew and sweeten apples, make bottom crust, pour in apples, 
add pinch of salt and sprinkle with nutmeg. Roll dough again 
very thin and cut strips about three-eighths of an inch wide 
and lay on top about three-eights of an inch apart across each 
way, making little squares. Put bits of butter all about, and 
sprinkle with sugar. Any fruit pie may be made the same way, 
or covered with solid top crust. Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 


89 


Each package of KNOX GELATINE makes FOUR PINTS of jelly 


Chocolate Cream Pie 


2 sq. chocolate or 14 cup cocoa. 2 cups milk. 
4 cup cornstarch. 2 egg yolks. 
2 egg whites. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 


4 cup sugar. 

Melt chocolate, add sugar, cornstarch, egg yolks, salt and 
milk. Cook in double boiler until it thickens, stirring con- 
stantly, favor with vanilla, pour into a baked pie-crust shell, 
cover with meringue made by beating egg whites stiffly. Bake 
brown; serve cold. Miss Rutu Dew. 


Chocolate and Blackberry Custard 


1 quart canned or raw berries. 34 cup cocoa. 
2 cups sugar. 4 eggs. 
1 cup milk. 4 cup butter melted. 


A little flour. 


Mix all together well thus: Beat eggs, add sugar, cocoa and 
flour, then milk, stir well and pour in berries, then butter. 
Flavor if preferred. This makes three or four pies. 

Mrs. U. B. Atexanper. 


Delicious Pie 


4 eggs. 14 pound butter. 
1 cup sugar. Vanilla. 


Take yolks of eggs, beat until ight, add one cup sugar, beat 
well and add one-fourth pound creamed butter and vanilla. 


CRUST 
2 cups well sifted flour. Salt. 
Y% cup lard. Water. 


Enough water to make a stiff dough. After making let stand 
a few minutes, then roll and line two small pie tins; put mix- 
ture, divided equally in the two crusts and bake in moderate 
oven. Now beat the four whites until very stiff, then put in 
eight tablespoonsful of sugar and beat again; when pie is done, 
put whites on top and brown to a golden brown. These are 
delicious. Mrs. W. R. Dorsert. 


Brown Sugar Custard 
1 pound dark brown sugar. 5 eggs. 
1/3 pound of butter. 


Cream butter and sugar, then add yolks of eggs, beat whites 
to a stiff froth, add two teaspoons of water. Mix all together 
and bake on crust. Mrs. Cuartes H. Youneer. 


90 


Use KNOX GELATINE—the Four-pint package 


Molasses Custard 


Five eggs, beaten saparately, one and one-half cups molasses, 
one cup sugar, two tablespoonfuls of melted butter. While 
beating the eggs cook the molasses and sugar until it boils, melt 
the butter in-the boiling mixture and pour over the eggs, while 
still boiling hot, a pinch of soda and a little salt. Flavor with 
vanilla. Bake with bottom crust only. 


Sweet Potato Custard 


2 medium sweet potatoes boiled 4 eggs, separate whites. 
and mashed. 1 cup sugar. 
2 cups milk. 2 tablespoons butter. 


1 teaspoon vanilla. 


To mashed potatoes add eggs, sugar, milk and butter. Cook 
in double boiler or over very slow fire until thick custard. 
Spread on crusts previously baked. Beat whites very stiff, 
adding two tablespoons sugar, then spread over custard and 
brown in quick oven. 


FOR CRUSTS (2) 


2 cups flour. 16 cup shortening. 
14 teaspoon salt. 


Mix, roll and put in pans and bake quickly. 
Mrs. R. E. Price. 


Lemon Pie 


1 cup sugar. 3 tablespoons flour. 

1% cup boiling water. 4 tablespoons cornstarch. 
1/8 teaspoon salt. 3 egg yolks. 

¥% tablespoon butter. Juice 1144 lemons. 


Mix sugar, flour, cornstarch and salt in top of double boiler, 
add boiling water slowly and stir and cook over the fire until 
boiling point is reached. Place over hot water and cook twenty 
minutes, stirring occasionally. Mix grated rind and Juice of 
the lemons and egg yolks lightly beaten, and add to the mixture 
in double boiler. Add butter and stir and cook two minutes. 
Cool and turn into cooked pastry crust. Spread with meringue 


and bake eight minutes in a moderate oven. 
Mrs. T. T. WeELtons. 


Hight-Minute Meringue 


Beat three egg whites until stiff, gradually add one-third cup 
powdered sugar, beating vigorously, fold in one-sixth cup sugar ; 
add grated lemon rind to flavor and bake eight minutes 1n 
moderate oven. Mrs. T. T. WELLONS. 

ot 


Where recipes call for Gelatine, use KNOX SPARKLING 





GELATINE 
Raisin Pie 
34 cup sugar. 1/8 teaspoon salt. 
14 teaspoon cinnamon. 14 teaspoon cloves. 
1 egg. 14 cup molasses. | 
ly cup vinegar. 1 cup chopped raisins. 
14 cup butter. 2 scant tablespoons cornstarch. 


Mix sugar, salt, cinnamon and cloves, add to slightly beaten 
egg, add molasses, vinegar, raisins, cornstarch and melted butter. 
Mix well and bake between two crusts in a moderate oven. 


Mrs. C. A. Wax.in. 


Chocolate Pie 
Yolks of 3 eggs. 34 cup of sugar. — 
2 tablespoons grated chocolate. 1 teacup sweet milk. 
Cream the yolks and sugar together. Pour heated milk and 
chocolate over it and flavor with vanilla. Beat whites of eggs, 
add three tablespoons of sugar, cover pies and brown. 


Mas .: Hee Rupy, 
Buttermilk Pie 


1 cup buttermilk. 1 cup plain cake crumbs. 

14 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

1 teaspoon Bee Brand lemon Butter size of small egg. 
extract. 


Bake and cover with meringue made of two remaining whites 
and two tablespoons sugar. Mrs. T. T. Wettons. 


Chocolate Pie 


3 eggs (yoke). 34 cup sugar. 
2 tablespoons of grated chocolate. 1 teacup sweet milk. 
Flavor with vanilla. 


Make two pies of this, and bake, then whip whites of eggs, add 
to these three tablespoons of sugar, cover pies and brown 
shehtly. 


LRT ETL MTR eR ETT eh UAE mcm ff me fh ff ome 1 commen i ff ee fj ff mm fff mf ff oma jf ff comme ff ff omen ff ff came fff comemece ff ff emmmem fff om | 


C. W. ELLINGTON co. 


DRUGGISTS 


Fayetteville and Morgan Streets 


When you want it Quick phone ““ONE-OH-SIX”’ 


where Your Trade will be appreciated 


Fo tt 
de ane 


Hee Hf] ee fH} mee fff ee ff mes ff me Hf me if] Ff mf ff ef ff} fff nf) em ff ome ff emf ff ee ff] so ff ae} sm ff] eee i = 


92 


KNOX GELATINE solves the problem of ‘‘What to have for 
dessert’’ 


PUDDINGS AND SAUCES 


Spanish Cream 


3 teaspoons gelatine (Knox’s). 3 egg whites. 
3 egg yolks. 3 cups milk. 
11% cups sugar. 2 teaspoons vanilla. 


Scald milk with gelatine, add sugar, pour slowly on yolks 
of eggs slightly beaten; return to double boiler, cook until 
thick, stirring constantly, remove from fire, add flavoring and 
whites of eggs beaten stiff, beat until cool, turn into molds 


and chill. Miss Rutu Dew. 
Brown Betty 
Sliced apples. Bread crumbs. 
Sugar. Nutmeg. 
Butter. 


Put layer of sliced apples in baking dish, sprinkle with sugar 
and some nutmeg. Then cover with layer of crumbs and dot 
with butter. Alternate till pan is full, leaving crumbs on top. 


Bake. Mrs. C. E. Grienn. 


Lemon Sponge or Snow Pudding 


4 envelope Knox sparkling 34 cup sugar. 
gelatine. 14 cup cold water. 
14 cup lemon juice. 1 cup boiling water. 


Whites of 2 eggs. 


Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes, dissolve in boiling 
water, add sugar, lemon juice and grated rind of one lemon, 
strain, and set aside; occasionally stir mixture, and when quite 
thick beat with wire spoon or whisk until frothy; add whites 
of eggs beaten stiff, and continue beating until stiff enough 
to hold its shape. Pile by spoonfuls on glass dish. Chill and 
serve with boiled custard. A very attractive dish may be pre- 


pared by coloring half the mixture red. 
| Mrs. T. T. WELtons. 


Prune Whip 
1 pound prunes. 2 tablespoons sugar. 
1 lemon, Bee Brand. 1 egg. 


Cook prunes, stone, and grind. Add sugar and lemon. Fold 


in beaten whites of eggs. Brown in oven. Serve cool. 
Miss RuraH WHATHERLY. 


93 


Stationery 


| OFFICE SUPPLIES and SPECIALTIES | 
Kodaks and Supplies 


JAMES E. THIEM 


Phone 135 RALEIGH, N. C. 


REGINALD HAMLET 
Drugegist 


Corner Glenwood Avenue and North Street 


PHONE 420 


eee meen Pe een oe 
| 
= 
Fa 
bE 
leg 
ES 
| | 
ey 
| | 
fe 
a) 
4 
lel 
| | 
| | 
iz 
al 
ee 
| 
a 
| | 

| lee le 

a | 


! Take Safety Coach Line Busses | 


for QUICK SERVICE to and from 
DURHAM, GREENSBORO and in- 
termediate points 


: For schedules, rates and reservations 


| 
| 
| 
| 
CALL 447 UNION BUS STATION | 


Cleaners— Dyers 


RALEIGH, N. C. 


WE WASH FOR RALEIGH 
Family Wash Our Specialty 


KNOX GELATINE is economical—one package makes FOUR 
PINTS of jelly 


Sareea remee Pe Tye To We ae ERMMN nan ot NSIT WEEE Le Se TEM LL SM! 
Pineapple Pudding 


34 cup condensed milk. 214 cups water. 
1/3 cup cornstarch. 14 cup sugar. 
44 teaspoon salt. Whites of 3 eggs. 


Ys can grated pineapple. 


Cook milk, water, cornstarch, sugar and salt ten minutes, 
fold in whites of eggs beaten stiff. When partly cooled, stir in 
pineapple. Mold, chill and serve with soft custard. Serves 
S1X persons. Mrs. H. E. Groree. 


Biscuit Pudding 


12 biscuits softened with water. 1 cup raisins. 
1 cup sugar. 2 eggs. 

: SAUCE 
2 tablespoons butter. Vg cup sugar. 


1 cup water. 


Cooked together, a little cornstarch or plain flour to thicken. 
Mrs. Hamittron Barts. 


Baked Blackberry or Huckleberry Roll 


1 pint flour. 1 tablespoon lard. 
11% teaspoons baking powder. ,. Enough water to mix together. 


Roll about one-fourth inch thick and sprinkle with sugar. 
Spread with berries and add more sugar. Roll and pinch to- 
gether, sprinkle top with sugar and pieces of butter. Put a 
little water in the pan and bake one-half hour. Serve with 
sauce or cream. Miss Mary D. Georcee. 


Chocolate Sauce 


114 cups water. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 
14 cup sugar. 4 cup cold water. 
6 tablespoons grated chocolate. Pinch of salt. 


14 teaspoon vanilla, Bee Brand. 


Boil sugar and water four or five minutes to make a syrup. 
Mix chocolate, starch, and one-half cup cold water; add the 
salt, then the hot syrup, and cook three minutes. Flavor and 
serve hot. If desired to serve on ice cream let cool before 


serving. Miss Ruta W#ATHERLY. 
Sauce 

14 cup butter. 2 tablespoons vanilla. 

2 tablespoons milk. 14 cup powdered sugar. 


Cream butter and sugar, add milk and vanilla. Cook in 
double boiler until thickens a little. Mrs. W. P. Barxarp. 


95 


KNOX stands for Quality and Quantity in Gelatine 





Grape Nut Pudding 


1 cup grapenuts. 144 cups milk. 
4 cup sugar. Butter size of walnut. 


Y% teaspoon vanilla. 


Boil all together until it thickens, will take about five minutes 
or little longer. Serve with sauce, or whipped cream. 
Mrs. U. B. ALEXANDER. 


Bread Pudding 


14% slices buttered toast. 1 pint milk. 
2 eggs. lg cup sugar. 


14 teaspoon vanilla. 


Make custard by beating the eggs very light. Add sugar 
and mix thoroughly. Add milk and vanilla. Put toast in 
bottom of a pudding pan and pour custard over it and cook in 
a moderate oven until the consistency of boiled custard. 


Mrs. A. P. Hepricx. 


Banana Pudding 


3 bananas. 4 pound vanilla wafers. 
1 quart sweet milk. 3 eggs. 
3 tablespoons cornstarch. 14 cup sugar. 


Place layers of vanilla wafers in bottom of baking dish, 
then layer of bananas, until wafers and bananas are used. 
Make a boiled custard of sugar, egg yolks, and cornstarch, cook. 
When thick pour over bananas and wafers. Make meringue 
of three egg whites, six tablespoons sugar, pour over custard 
and brown. When meringue is brown the pudding is done. 
This can be cooked in custard cups also. Miss Bertie Ruts. 


Cocoanut Custard 


1 egg. 1 cupful of sugar. 
A lump of butter the size of a 2 tablespoons of flour. 
walnut. 11% cupfuls of fresh buttermilk. 
1/3 teaspoonful soda. Pinch of salt. 
1 small package of shredded cocoanut. 
This will make two custards. Miss Janrm Harrineton. 


Biscuit Pudding 

Crumb up cold biscuits and soak in sweet milk. Add about 
two eggs, one small cup sugar, butter size of an egg, one tea- 
spoon vanilla, and one cup stewed prunes seeded, also little 
baking powder. Bake in well greased and floured. pan. Serve 
with sauce. Mrs. U. B. Atexanper. 


96 





































iit i a. mh it 
lant Sa PK den ol ‘nae i TRA cae) ean We Sa | 
ay H 
ad ae \ 
Baral phe | te agin i 4 ere bani f Pt Ay 
i + ik aM oe: vi 5 oe i i Reus ; i 
ony | Mi iy ri . i b | 
x, ‘We bt +4, iat vi Oto ag Cap 
: { Hh y } \ ’ t Pie y : 1 , iy fi 
& 0 ht A EN a tay 
vine ou i bars te cea AMM RC OLIN AY 9 aN 
‘Worskoival sana SND Ss 0b PS iy a 
1 Ay eh ii NT ; 
st eM 1b i> 
m ait bie 
i" Spleen i A ‘ t 
t ( meee weit 
, , 
iy APA ‘ 
4 ’ Lt ) 2 &y iy 4 si ; 
* , ’ ij f. . ry j 
: ‘pe hiss * 
ae AP ROME Ln ys xe "h zi lit 
. Par aaa ita 
y ‘a ‘ f ! q ; } ‘ 
i ¥ ae ie ey ie Win i) SCL MEY ar tangy Meee i AST } Y 
Fa Hi a My ea any eae my) ; Rik st) Peas 





veut Sana AR al e120 
A ie ue neat a Ue, af rier ; 
Pans: Wy thy re een : 


i 
" i fal out ' 4 


/ a uy \ } ' 
teh nk’ Otte, figs ow Ag vids +3) mae. v ‘ 4 
sia ‘osha SARE isa 08 ; 


j id a iy het ph ay ie 
eee: yi ANTS colnet ON ae 








is xt ae tk Ame t Pe Fceihal igh OMT 





% oo pe 


Ga Ae nhy ee 








ne fea 
mee Laas ‘its 


Rye 









Desserts can be made in a short time with KNOX GELATINE 





Vevy Pudding 


Y4 cup butter. 1 cup molasses. 

2 cups sifted flour. 1 cup milk. 

1 teaspoon soda. 1 teaspoon cloves. 

1 pinch salt. 1 teaspoon cinnamon. 


Steam in mold or bake in slow oven. 


SAUCE 


One cup sugar, one cup butter creamed, add one well beaten 
egg. Flavor with vanilla. Just before serving stir in table 
spoon (or more) hot water. Mrs, Crarence Howe tt. 


Persimmon Pudding 


4 cupfuls of grated sweet 2 cupfuls of persimmons after they 
potatoes. are seeded. 

21% cupfuls of sugar. 4 eggs. 

1 cupful of butter. 1 cupful of flour. 

2 cupfuls sweet milk or water. Flavor with nutmeg, Bee Brand. 


Bake in hot oven. Work the persimmons up with warm 
water and mash through colander to get the seed and. skins 
out. Miss Janiz Harrineron. 


Sauce for Suet Pudding 


1 cup sugar. 1 egg. 
Butter size of walnut. 1 tablespoon flour. 
2 tablespoons cold water. 
Beat all together and pour in a halt-pint of hot milk. Let 
come to a boil, just enough to cook flour; not too long or egg 
will curd. Flavor with vanilla or any desired flavoring just 


before serving. Mrs. H. E. Gores. 
Banana Pudding 

Yolks of 4 eggs. 1 pint of milk. 

2 cups of sugar. Y teaspoon salt. 


Boil in double boiler until creamy, pour layer of this custard 
in pudding pan. Slice two bananas, crumble few vanilla 
wafers, then another layer of boiled custard, continue this, until 
all of custard, half dozen bananas and half pound of vanilla 


wafers are used. 


ICING FOR PUDDING 


Whites of four eggs, one-half cup of sugar, put on pudding, 


let cook until a light brown. This will serve ten people. 
Mrs. W. S. SupDERTH. 


7 97 


KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE—no bother—no trouble—no 
squeezing lemons 





Cranberry Sauce 


Put the berries, after picking over and washing, into a sauce- 
pan just covered with water and stew slowly over a good fire, 
stir often, mashing the fruit all you can. When they are 
mashed, which will take about one-half hour, take them from 
the fire and add the sugar (nearly a pound to a quart of berries) 
stirring it till it has dissolved. Press all the fruit through a 
coarse sieve and put what passes through into the saucepan and 
cook until thick; put into dish or mold and set away to cool. 

Mrs. T. T. Wettons. 


Orange Pudding 


Peel and cut five sweet oranges into thin slices, taking out 
the seeds, pour over them a coffee cup of white sugar; let a 
pint of milk get boiling hot by setting it in a pot of boiling 
water; add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful 
of cornstarch, made smooth with a little cold milk; stir all the 
time; as soon as thickened pour over the fruit. Beat the whites 
to a stiff froth adding a tablespoonful of sugar and spread over 
the top for frosting. Set it in the oven for a few minutes to 
harden. Eat cold or hot (better cold) for dinner and supper. 
Berries or peaches can be substituted for oranges. 

Mrs. Cuartes H. YounceEr. 


Rice Pudding 


1 cup boiled rice. 1 cup milk. 
1 cup seedless raisins. 1 egg. 

Butter and salt to season. Flavor with Bee Brand nutmeg 
or cinnamon. Bake in well greased and floured pan. Serve 
with sauce. Mrs. U. B. Atexanper. 


Water Pudding 


4 tablespoons cornstarch. 1 pint boiling water. 
1 cup sugar. 2 lemons. 
Whites of 3 eggs. 

Moisten cornstarch with little water. Stir well, boil one 
minute, add sugar, grated rind of one lemon and juice of two 
lemons. Pour this while hot over beaten whites of eggs. Put 
in molds after whipping well. 


SAUCE FOR PUDDING 


1 pint milk. yolk 2 eggs. 
1 cup sugar. Bee Brand vanilla. 

Scald milk, add sugar and eggs, flavor, cook until it thickens. 
Add cherry if desired. Mrs. W. I. Wettons. 


98 


FOUR separate Desserts or Salads from one package of Knox 
Gelatine 


Cottage Pudding 


4 cup butter. Y% cup sugar. 
1 egg well beaten. 1 cup milk. 
2 cups flour. 3 level teaspoons baking powder. 


4 teaspoon (level) salt. 


Cream butter, add gradually sugar and egg, sift together thor- 
oughly the flour, baking powder and salt and add with milk 
to first mixture. Bake thirty-five minutes. Serve with vanilla 
or hard sauce. Mrs. C. D. Leavistsr. 


Graham Pudding 


Mix well together one-half cupful molasses, one-half teaspoon- 
ful soda, one-fourth cupful butter, one egg, one-half cupful 
milk, one and one-half cups Graham flour, a little salt and spice 
to taste. Steam two hours. Add one cupful raisins if desired. 
Serve with sauce. Mrs. W. P. Batxiarp. 


Apple Dumplings 


1 cup flour. 2 tablespoons shortening. 
2 teaspoons baking powder. 1/3 cup water or milk. 
4 teaspoon salt. 4 apples. 


14 cup sugar. 


Mix and sift flour, baking powder, and salt. Cut in the 
shortening with knives, add the liquid, mixing to a soft dough. 
Roll on a well floured board to one-fourth inch thickness. Wipe, 
pare and cut apples. Cut dough in four or five inch squares 
or round pieces. Place apples in center, and sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon, and butter the size of a walnut. Moisten 
the edge of dough; bring the edges together around the apple. 
Pierce with a fork to allow steam to escape. Bake on a greased 
tin in a moderate oven until soft (about twenty-five minutes). 
If necessary put enough water in pan to keep from browning 
too fast. Serve warm with cream or any pudding sauce. 

Miss Maset Day. 


Caramel Sauce 


1 cupful granulated sugar. 14 cupful marshmallow topping. 
1 cupful boiling water. Chopped walnuts. 


Melt the sugar in a skillet until it becomes clear, amber syrup. 
Add the boiling water and simmer thirty minutes. Just before 
removing add the marshmallow topping and beat thoroughly. 
Add chopped walnuts if desired when the sauce has cooled. 


Serve over vanilla ice cream or any simple pudding. 
Miss RutH WEATHERLY. 


99 


KNOX GELATINE makes a transparent, tender, quivering jelly 





White Sauces 


THIN WHITE SAUCE 


2 tablespoons butter. 1 tablespoon flour to 1 cup milk. 
4 teaspoon salt. Dash pepper. 


This is used for cream soups and scalloped dishes. 


MEDIUM WHITE SAUCE 


2 tablespoons butter. 2 tablespoons flour to 1 cup milk. 
14 teaspoon salt. Dash of pepper. 


This is used for creamed vegetables, fish, meat and cream 
toast. 


THICK WHITE SAUCE 


2 tablespoons butter. 4 tablespoons flour to 1 cup milk. 
14 teaspoon salt. Dash of pepper. 


This is used for binding materials in croquettes. 


Three Methods of Making White Sauce 


1. Melt the butter, but do not brown, add the flour and sea- 
soning, and stir until smooth. Add the milk slowly, stirring 
constantly until all is added and is perfectly smooth. Let it 
boil up once to thoroughly cook the starch in the flour. 

2. Mix the flour with an equal quantity of cold water or 
milk until smooth, and then add enough more milk to make it 
pour easily. Heat the remainder of the milk in a double boiler, 
and when hot add the flour mixture gradually, stirring all the 
time until the mixture thickens. Add the butter and seasoning. 
This method takes longer (fifteen minutes). 

3. Cream the butter, add the flour and seasoning and stir 
until all is well mixed. Scald the milk and pour slowly over 
the butter and flour, stirring all the time. 

Miss Ruta WeatHERLY. 


Tomato Sauce 


2 tablespoons butter. 14 teaspoon salt. 
2 tablespoons flour. 1 cup strained tomato. 
Pepper. 


Melt the butter, but do not brown, add the flour and season- 
ing, and stir until smooth. Add the tomato juice or half 
tomato and half milk and add a speck of soda to keep it from 
curdling, stirring constantly until all is added and is perfectly 
smooth. Miss Rutu WatHeERrty. 


100 


A KNOX GELATINE Dessert or Salad is attractive and appetizing 





Mint Sauce for Lamb 


14 cup vinegar. 1 tablespoon powdered sugar. 
V4 cup finely chopped spearmint leaves. 
Dissolve the sugar in the vinegar, pour over the mint and 
let stand thirty minutes on back of range to infuse. Dilute 
with water if vinegar is very strong. 


Mrs. H. E. Groraen. 


Apple Sponge 

Pare and quarter sufficient apples to make one pound; put 
them into a saucepan, cover with one pint of water; stew slowly 
until apples are tender. While these are stewing, cover one 
package of Knox gelatine with one-half cup water and allow 
it to soak for one-half hour. 

Add this to the hot apples; press through a colander, add one 
cupful of sugar and the juice of one lemon. When the mix- 
ture begins to congeal and is not yet thick, stir in carefully 
the well beaten whites of three eggs, turn into a mold to harden. 
Serve with a soft custard made of yolks of the three eggs. 

Miss GertrupEe Royster. 


Brown Sauce 


Served with puddings, baked apples and desserts. 
2 cups brown sugar. 14 cup granulated sugar. 
1 cup milk. 
Mix two tablespoons flour and one tablespoon butter to a 
paste. Let sugar and milk boil, then add the mixed paste. 
Miss Mary D. George. 


Milk Sauce 


Rub one tablespoon of butter into a large cup of sugar, add 
two beaten eggs and mix to a froth. Wet one-half teaspoon of 
cornstarch and stir into the mixture, then stir in five tablespoons 
of boiling milk, beating well all the time. Let the dish in a pan 
of boiling water simmer five minutes. Flavor to taste. 


NES ater hony. 


Cranberry Sauce 


1 quart cranberries. 11% cups water. 
2 cups sugar. 

Cook the cranberries and water till the berries are tender; 
then rub through seive to keep back the skins and seeds. Re- 
turn to the fire, add the sugar and cook until it is melted. 
Chill and serve. Mrs. H. Buarr STEVICK. 


101 


Try the KNOX GELATINE recipes found in this book 





Cheese Sauce 


2 tablespoons butter. 1 cupful grated American cheese. 
2 tablespoons flour. l4 teaspoonful salt. 
1 cupful milk. lf teaspoonful paprika. 


Melt the butter, add the flour and seasonings. When 
bubbling, add the milk gradually, stirring constantly. Cook 
until smooth and thickened. Add the cheese, place over hot 
water, and cook until the cheese has melted. 

Miss RutH W#HatHeERty. 


Chocolate Custard 


1 square Baker’s chocolate. 2 eggs. 
1 pint milk. 34 cup sugar. 
3 tablespoonfuls flour. Butter size walnut. 


Heat the milk and combine carefully with the melted choco- 
late. Stir constantly till the mixture boils; beat the yolks of 
eggs and sugar together. Add enough milk to the flour to 
make a smooth paste. Beat all together and pour gradually 
into the boiling milk. Stir until thick then add the butter 
and a teaspoon vanilla. Make a meringue by beating together 
the whites of eggs with two tablespoons sugar. Pour boiling 
custard into baking dish, cover with meringue and brown. 


Mrs. J. W. WEAVER. 


Boiled Custard 


1 quart milk. 3 eggs. 
1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon of cornstarch. 
Fiavoring. 


Mix cornstarch with sugar, beat into it the eggs, bring milk 
to boiling point in a double boiler. Add the mixture of sugar, 
starch, and eggs, and cook until thick. When cool add flavor- 
ing. Serve cold. This will serve six. 

Mrs. W. J. Ricnarpson. 


Cocoanut Cream 


¥% envelope Knox sparkling gelatine. 1 cup shredded cocoanut. 


4 cup cold water. 3 eggs. 
Few grains salt. 1/3 cup sugar. 
2 cups milk. 1 teaspoonful vanilla. 


Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Make custard of 
yolks of eggs, sugar and milk; remove from range and add 
soaked gelatine. When mixture begins to set, add cocoanut, 
whites of eggs beaten until stiff, salt and flavoring. Line a 
mold with sections of orange, pour in mixture and chill. 


102 


KNOX GELATINE—Economy with highest Quality 


Hard Sauce (for Puddings) 


4g cup butter. __ 1 cup XXXX sugar. 
2 tablespoons boiling water. Flavoring to taste. 


Beat the butter until creamy, then add half the sugar and 
water, beat well, and add the remainder of the sugar and water. 
When light and fluffy add flavoring and set aside in a cool 
place until wanted. If desired the flavoring may be omitted 
and a little grated nutmeg used. Miss Mary D. Gerores. 


Peach Polly 


1 quart can peaches. 1 tablespoonful lemon juice. 
2 cupfuls soft stale bread crumbs. Vf cupful sugar. 
1 tablespoonful butter. 

Arrange a layer of canned peaches in a greased baking dish, 
sprinkle with the sugar, dot with bits of butter, and add the 
crumbs. Pour over the top the juice from the peaches, to 
which the lemon juice has been added. Bake thirty minutes 
and serve with cream or any favorite sauce. The fruit juice 
may be reserved for use in the sauce if desired and one cupful 
of water used in its place in the pudding. 

Miss RutH WEATHERLY. 


Chocolate Plum Pudding 


1 envelope Knox sparkling gelatine. 14 cup sliced citron or nuts, as 


34 cup cold water. preferred. 

1 cup sugar. 14 cup currants. 

¥% teaspoonful vanilla. 114 squares chocolate. 
1 cupful seeded raisins. 1 pint milk. 

¥g cup dates or figs, if desired. Pinch salt. 


Soak gelatine in cold water five minutes. Put milk in double 
boiler, add melted chocolate, and when scalding point is reached 
add sugar, salt and soaked gelatine. Remove from fire and 
when mixture begins to thicken add vanilla, fruit and nut 
meats. Turn into mold, first dipped in cold water, and chill. 
Remove to serving dish and garnish with holly. Serve with 
whipped cream, sweetened, and flavored with vanilla. 


| McELWEE-TEMPLETON MOTOR CO. | 
Dodge Brothers Motor Cars | 
Graham Brothers Motor Trucks : 
| 116 E. Morgan St. RALEIGH, N.C. | 
ean ns OE Ie 


103 


KNOX GELATINE is the one dessert for all appetites 





ICES AND ICE CREAM 


Frozen Fruit 


Shake a can of peeled apricots well to mix the fruit through 
the juice, and lay it lengthwise in a pan or pail of finely 
chopped ice and salt, using equal parts of salt and ice; com- 
pletely cover and set aside for three hours. When opening the 
can, lay it on the side and cut the top off, so the fruit may be 
turned out on a plate, and cut in slices and serve. If it doesn’t 
come out easily, wet a cloth in warm water and lay on it just a 
second. Other fruits may be used instead of apricots. 


Miss Mary D. Groran. 


\ 
Orange Ice 


2 cups water. 1 cup orange juice. _ 
1 cup sugar. 1 tablespoon orange rind grated. 
1/3 cup lemon juice. 
Boil water, sugar, and orange rind five minutes, cool, add 
lemon and orange juice, strain and freeze. 
Mrs. R. B. Tempreron. 


Pineapple Sherbet 


One tablespoon of Knox gelatine soaked in one cup of cold 
water for fifteen minutes. Dissolve with one cup of boiling 
water. Take one-half can grated pineapple, one and one-half 
cups of sugar, juice of one lemon. Add the strained gelatine 
and freeze. (Double quantity if desired.) 

Mrs. W. L. Nevrns. 


Vanilla Ice Cream (Custard Foundation) 


2 cups scalded milk. 1 egg. 
1 teaspoon flour. 1/8 teaspoon salt. 
1 cup sugar. 1 quart thin cream. 


Mix flour, sugar and salt, add the egg slightly beaten, and 
then the scalded milk, gradually. Cook over hot water in a 
double boiler for fifteen to twenty minutes, stirring constantly 
at first. Remove from the fire, cool, add the cream and flavor- 
ing, strain and freeze. If custard has a curdled appearance, it 
will disappear in the freezing. 

Any desired fruit may be added to the custard just before 
placing in the freezer. Miss Ruta WeatTHERLY. 


104 


See that the name KNOX is on each package of Gelatine you buy 


One Gallon of Ice Cream 


‘Three quarts single cream, two pounds sugar; flavor to taste 
with vanilla or fruits. Cook to boiling point, add yolks of six- 
teen eggs, mix and strain; let cool and put in freezer. Freeze 


semi-hard, remove dasher, pack with salt and ice until hard. 
Mrs. C. A. Wattin. 


Water Ice 


1 can apricots (run thru sieve). 8 oranges, juice. 
8 lemons, juice. 4 cups sugar. 


Make syrup of sugar and boiling water. Add fruit juice to 
make a gallon of mixture. Freeze. Mrs. C. E. GLenn. 


Philadelphia Vanilla Ice Cream 


1 quart thin or single cream. 84 cup sugar. 
11% tablespoons Bee Brand vanilla. 
‘Mix ingredients and freeze. Miss Mary D. Guorce. 


Chocolate Sauce to Be Served with Ice Cream 


11% cups water. 14 cup sugar. 
1 tablespoon arrow-root. 14 cup cold water. 
6 tablespoons grated chocolate. Few grains of salt. 


¥4 teaspoon Bee Brand vanilla. 
Boil water and sugar five minutes, mix chocolate with arrow- 


root to which water has been added. Combine mixtures, add 


salt, and boil three minutes, add vanilla, and serve hot. 
Miss Mary D. Guorce. 


Hot Fudge Chocolate Sauce for Ice Cream or Cake 


¥4 cup sugar. 2 cups water. 
2 squares chocolate 2 teaspoons cornstarch. 


Vf teaspoon salt. 
2, teaspoons Bee Brand vanilla. 


Mix together the sugar, water and grated chocolate, cook 
together until the sugar is dissolved and chocolate melted, then 
add the cornstarch which has been mixed thoroughly with the 
cold water, and cook five minutes, stirring constantly. Add 
salt and vanilla. Serve hot. Miss Mary D. Groree. 


4 cup cold water. 


Lemon Water Ice 


Five lemons, one quart water, one pound sugar and lemon 
rind. When cool, add the lemon juice, strain and freeze. 


Mrs. W. L. NeEvIns. 
105 


See that the name KNOX is on each package of Gelatine you buy 


Pineapple Sherbet 


One lemon peel (peeled as you would an apple), add water 
enough to dissolve one and one-half cups sugar, cook a little, 
and cool. Take out peel, squeeze in juice of the lemon, and 
add one small can of shredded pineapple. Put in half-gallon 
freezer and fill with water nearly to the top (about four inches). 
When it is frozen a little, add the beaten white of two eggs, and 
freeze harder. Miss Mary D. Guorer. 


Nut Frappe 


14 envelope Knox sparkling gelatine. 1 cup cream. 


4 cup cold water. 34 cup milk. 

¥ cup sugar. White of 1 egg. 

1 cup cooked pineapple and 1 cup chopped nuts. 
strawberries. 


Soak gelatine in the cold water five minutes and dissolve over 
hot water. Add dissolved gelatine to cream, milk and sugar 
and stir in beaten white of egg. When cold, add the pineapple 
and strawberries which have been chopped in small pieces, also 
the chopped nuts. Serve ice-cold in sherbet glasses. 


Fruit Sherbet 
1% envelope Knox sparkling gelatine (scant measure). 


114 cups sugar. 3 cups rich milk. 
1 orange. 1 lemon. 


Grate the outside of both orange and lemon. Squeeze out the 
juice and add to this the sugar. Soak the gelatine in part of a 
cup of milk for five minutes and dissolve by standing in pan of 
hot water. Stir into the rest of the milk. When it begins to 
freeze, add the fruit juice and sugar, and fruit of any kind if 
desired. This makes a large allowance for five persons. 


Vanilla Ice Cream 


1 pint milk. 3 eggs. 
1 cup sugar. 2 teaspoons Bee Brand vanilla. 
1/3 teaspoon salt. 2 cups thin cream. 


Scald the milk, add the well-beaten eggs to it, and cook in a 
double boiler till as thick as boiled custard. Remove from the 
fire, add the sugar and, when cold, the vanilla, salt and cream. 
Freeze and set aside to ripen before serving. Two squares of 
chocolate melted over hot water may be added to the scalded 
milk before the eggs are put in, to give chocolate cream. 

Miss Mary D. Groras. 


106 





Free cook book offer in each package of Knox Gelatine 


Strawberry Frappe 


2 quarts strawberries. 4 cups water. 
21% cups sugar. 
Boil sugar and water for five minutes; wash and press straw- 
berries through a sieve; measure three cups of juice and pulp; 
add to syrup. When cold, freeze to mushy consistency. Serve 


in frappé glasses with whipped cream. 
Mrs. T. T. Wettons. 


Fruit Sherbet 


% cup banana pulp. 4 cup orange juice. 
4 cup grated pineapple. 14 cup lemon Juice. 
2 cups sugar. 214 cups milk. 


11% cups cream. 
Crush bananas to a pulp with a silver fork, add sugar, 
strained fruit juice and pineapple. Scald milk and, when cold, 


stir in the fruit. Whip cream and add. Freeze. 
Mrs. T. T. WeEtxLons. 


107 


Knox Sparkling Gelatine makes dainty desserts for dainty people 





PRESERVES 
Orange and Pear Marmalade 
1 peck pears. 6 oranges. 
5 pounds sugar. 2 lemons. 


Grind one orange, including the peeling, with pears, through 
meat chopper. Squeeze juice and pulp of other five oranges. 
Juice two lemons. Use no water. Be careful not to let orange 
seed get in. Cook two hours and stir often to avoid burning or 
sticking. Mrs. A. P. Hepricx. 


Preserved Figs 


Take two tablespoons of ground ginger and tie in a muslin 
bag. Use enough cold water to cover the figs. Do not take the 
stems off of figs. Put all on the fire and let come to a boil. 
Cover with a plate to keep them under the water. As soon as 
they are clear, take out and put on a plate. Make a syrup— 
four pounds of sugar to five quarts of figs, very little water, 
juice of one lemon. As soon as syrup is cooked, put figs in 
and cover with a plate. Cook until fruit is thoroughly done. 
Take out fruit and cook syrup down, put the fruit back in and 
heat, then seal. Mrs. H. E. Gores. 


Watermelon Rind Pickle 


Peel the green and red off of a thick rind, cut in small squares 
or strips. Soak in weak brine twelve hours then in fresh water 
twelve hours, changing water twice. Boil thirty minutes in 
alum water, a lump about the size of a hickory nut, next in 
strong ginger water thirty minutes. To eight pounds of rind 
(after soaking and boiling) put five pounds of sugar and one 
quart of vinegar, one ounce each of spice, cloves and cinnamon. 
Boil until syrup is thick and rind clear. In changing rind 
(from boiling alum water, ginger water) drop in cold water 
each time to keep brittle. Mrs. W. L. Nevins. 


Pineapple and Strawberry Preserves 


Two baskets of strawberries and one pineapple. Hull the 
berries, peel the pineapple, and put through the meat chopper; 
mix the two together, add one cup sugar to each cup fruit, let 
stand a few minutes until sugar is thoroughly dissolved, then 
cook over a slow fire until it starts to boil, then boil just fifteen 
minutes, and seal with paraffin in glasses. 

Mrs. H. E. Georges. 


108 


Give the growing children Knox Sparkling Gelatine 





Strawberry Jam 


To one pound fresh strawberries add one pound sugar. Cook 
slowly till sugar is dissolved, then boil ten minutes. Take out 
the fruit, boil syrup until thick, replace fruit and boil five min- 
utes. Put in jars and, when cold, pour melted paraffin over 
top. It is best to cook only two quarts of berries at one time. 


Mrs. J. W. WraAver. 


Orange Marmalade 
6 oranges. 4 lemons. 


Wash fruit carefully, and slice, adding to each pint three 
pints cold water. Let stand twenty-four hours. Cook this 
until the rinds are tender, then let stand again overnight, then 
add an equal amount of sugar, and boil until it jellies. 

Mrs. W. P. Barrarp. 


Lemon Butter 


6 eggs. 1 pound sugar. 
4 pound butter. 3 lemons. 

Beat eggs thoroughly, add sugar and butter, juice of three 
lemons and grated rind of two. Cook till thick like honey. 
Strain. Mrs. C. E. Guewy. 


Strawberry Preserves 


Hull and wash strawberries, mash just a little. Take one 
cup fruit, two cups sugar, when starting to boil good, cook 
from twelve to fifteen minutes, put in glasses, cover with para- 


fine. Miss Mary D. Gerorer. 
Sweet Pickle Peaches or Pears 

6 pounds of fruit. 3 pounds of sugar. 

1 quart apple vinegar. Spice to suit taste. 


Mrs. T. T. Wetnons. 


Preserved Citron or Watermelon Rind 


Pare and cut in strips the rind of ripe melons. Soak in 
alum water to cover, allowing two teaspoons of powdered alum 
to each quart of water, heat gradually to boiling point and 
cook slowly ten minutes, drain, cover with ice water, let stand 
two hours, again drain and dry between towels. Weigh, allow 
one pound of sugar to each pound of fruit, one cup of water to 
each pound of sugar. Boil sugar and water ten minutes. Add 
melon rind and cook until tender. Remove rind to jars and 
cover with syrup. Mrs. H. E. Groree. 


109 


Knox Sparkling Gelatine improves Soups and Gravies 


Sweet Pickle Peaches 


8 pounds of fruit. 1 quart vinegar. _ 
4 pounds sugar. Stick cinnamon, ginger, cloves, mace, 
allspice. 


Boil vinegar, sugar and spices together, add fruit, boil up 
good once or twice, remove from the kettle. In one week’s time 
return the fruit and juice to kettle and boil as soft as you like. 

Miss Netxure Stern. 


Sweet Pickles 


12 pounds fruit. 6 pounds sugar. 
1 pint vinegar. Cloves and spice to suit the taste. 
Boil vinegar, sugar and spices together three successive morn- 
ings and the third morning cook all together. 
Miss JANIE Harrineton. 


Peach Jelly 


Pare the peaches, take out the stones, then slice them. Add 
to them about a quarter of the kernels. Place them in a kettle 
with enough water to cover them. Stir them often until the 
fruit is well cooked. Then strain and to every pint of the 
juice add the juice of a lemon. Measure again and allow 
one pound of sugar to each pint of juice. Heat the sugar 
very hot and add, when the juice has boiled, twenty minutes. 
Let come to a boil and take instantly from fire. 

Mrs. J. E. Sawyer. 


Orange Marmalade 


6 oranges. 11 cups cold water. 
1 lemon. 7 cups sugar. 

Peel oranges, removing skins, and slice thin. Slice lemon 
with rind on, cover orange and lemon slices with cold water, 
let stand twenty-four hours. Boil three hours, add sugar and 
boil one hour. Pour into glasses, cool and cover. 

Mrs. R. B. Tempreron. 


Ginger Pear 
8 pounds pears (hard preferred). 1 quart cold water. 
6 pounds sugar. 3 lemons. 


1 pound preserved ginger. 


Pare, core and cut pears in small squares. Heat water and 
sugar, put in pears and lemons sliced thin, also ginger cut fine. 
Boil slowly two hours. Good for vanilla ice cream. 


Mrs. W. P. Barwarp. 
110 


Ask your grocer for Knox Gelatine—take no other 





Fruit Butters 


If apples of coarse texture are used it is desirable to cook 
them and put them through a colander or coarse wire strainer 
before adding them to the boiled cider. Sweet apples are 
sometimes used with tart ones. Over-ripe apples are not de 
sirable. 

Apple butter is made by boiling down fresh sweet cider to half 
its original quantity, then adding apples which have been peeled 
and sliced. ‘The apples either are added directly to the boiled 
cider and cooked in it until the apple butter is done or are 
made into apple sauce which is cooked in the boiled cider. The 
cooking should be continued until the cider and apple pulp do 
not separate, then the butter will be of the right thickness 
when cold. 

To one gallon of cider boiled down to one-half gallon add one 
gallon of fruit. Sugar should be added after the cooking of 
cider and apples is about two-thirds done. They should be 
cooked from four to six hours. About one pound of sugar is 
used to one gallon of apple butter. It is spiced aceording to 
one’s perference, about one-half teaspoon each of ground cinna- 
mon, cloves and allspice for each gallon being a common mix- 
ture. _ These are stirred into it when the cooking is finished. 

Pear butter can be made the same way, and is very delicious. 

Miss Ruta WeratTHERLy. 


Pickled Pears 


10 pounds pears, pealed. 1 quart vinegar. 
416 pounds sugar. 4 cup water. 


4 cup broken cinnamon and cloves mixed. 

Place peeled pears (sickle pears are best), leaving stems on, 
in a crock alternately with layers of sugar, cover with the water 
and vinegar, let stand over night, drain and to the liquid add 
spices tied in a bag, soft heads of cloves removed. Heat slowly 
to the boiling point, when clear add the pears, boil until tender 
but not soft, place in heated glass jars, using perforated skim- 
mer and cover; when fruit is all cooked and in the can Iift 


covers and pour the boiling syrup over fruit and seal at once. 
Miss Berriz Ruta. 


Pineapple and Pear Marmalade 
1 peck pears. 5 pounds sugar. 
50-cent can grated pineapple. Juice of 2 lemons. 
Grind pears through meat chopper and cook one hour. Put 
in pineapple and cook another hour. Use no water. Stir often 


to prevent burning or sticking to kettle. 
Mrs. A, P. Hepricx. 


111 


KNOX GELATINE makes a transparent, tender, quivering jelly 





PICKLES 
Chow Chow 
1 gallon chopped cabbage. 4 gallon chopped green tomatoes. 
1 dozen large onions, chopped 1 dozen green sweet bell peppers, 
4 dozen red sweet bell peppers, chopped. 
chopped. 2 pounds sugar. 


Ground mustard, and celery seed, cloves and ginger (ground) to taste 


Sprinkle lightly with salt the chopped ingredients, putting 
each in a separate bowl. Let stand over night. Press the 
juice from éach in a bag. Mix all ingredients together, cover 
with vinegar. Boil slowly for one hour or more and can and 
seal while on the stove. Mrs. J. B. Marrrn. 


Cucumber Pickles 


Twelve large cucumbers, cut size desired and leave to drain. 
Mix vinegar, sugar and spices to suit taste (for real sweet 
pickles boil to a syrup), for ordinary cucumber pickles boil and 
set off to cool. Place cucumbers in jars and pour the mixture 
in. This number will make three full quarts. 


Mrs. W. I. Werttons. 


Pepper Hash 


3 dozen sweet bell peppers, red 5 pods hot green peppers. 
and green. 15 or 20 small onions. 
1 quart vinegar. 2 cups sugar. 


2 tablespoonsful salt. 


Run peppers and onions through meat chopper. Cover with 
boiling water and let stand five minutes. Drain, add vinegar, 
sugar and salt and boil about twenty minutes. Stir while 
boiling. Miss Netire Royster. 


Mustard Pickle 


Cut up and mix: 

2 quarts green tomatoes. 3 quarts cucumbers. 
1'quart onions. 1 head cabbage. 

Mix with one cup salt, let stand over night. Mix four cups 
sugar and two quarts or less of vinegar. Make a paste of three 
tablespoons mustard, two tablespoons turmeric, one cup flour 
and little cold vinegar, stir this into vinegar and sugar, let 
come to boil, pour little water over vegetables, squeeze out and 
add to vinegar, boil twenty minutes. Put in jars. 


Mrs. T. T. Wettons. 
112 





















: 
th ida 
ii 
; f i 
Ros sein } 
Se a 4 ri ee | y Ai 
ie ad, eee ORs aan ed ae if ‘ 
Th HELA le ade TE ay | " 
ys pitt Heady me ha ie 
OTE oY ett ae “« : 
Ung Al oe Aid otiyal re ¢ 
‘ad a sain H chains) abc Le rredi sy 4 i i Beedle hh 
‘ fee 7 f ae IN ie : 
if a. ¥ t 
ag, a | if 4) 
Ce Sia v ym Ue i 4 j 
eae Be VREIN UNF aN nari 
\ Y A 
; 1 J of 4 f 
uty) Sere , 
; A ed, i ae F 
, i J i nS ¥ 
ef, xi url he: ee a , ; ie 
by) sed wie ‘ i } < Ne 4 
i ’ a. ~~ * hee TRS a 
Tle a y ay . { h 
PSP RE eae POL, 4 OTR CMV | ‘ ) 
: ny f 
{ 4 as ‘ 


aah Kohat aft y, 1 { of yee , Th Wey : . Pn 


























a Sain at ee Ae * 
Dey a TORN TE aah 
y 1 eri ak ey 


a) a | ahd 


ee ® 









heey 


THe aie ed 
ape she) 
Sie 





KNOX GELATINE is GUARANTEED to please or money back 


Green Tomato Catsup 


7 pounds green tomatoes. 1 quart vinegar. 
| 4 red peppers. 
Add 1 pound brown sugar. 2 tablespoons mustard. 
1 teaspoon ground cloves. 2 tablespoons salt. 
1 tablespoon allspice. 1 tablespoon cinnamon. 


Boil about three hours and can in glass jars. 
Mrs. P. B. Maerupmr. 


Chow Chow 
2 heads cabbage. 1 peck green tomatoes. 
24 onions. 14 dozen red sweet peppers. 
Chop fine and salt over night. 
1 gallon vinegar. 2 pounds brown sugar. 
1 box mixed spices. 1 box ground mustard. 


Let this mixture boil five minutes, stir in pickles. Let come 


to boil and can, makes about eight quarts. 
Mrs. C. E. Guewn. 


Relish . 
2 dozen green bell peppers. 1 dozen red. bell peppers. 
9 onions. 1 cup of sugar. 


Grind and pour boiling water over and squeeze out. Add 


vinegar to moisten, cook ten to fifteen minutes. Seal. 
Mrs. J. C. Lynpon. 


Pepper Relish 


12 bell peppers. 10 onions. 
4 red-hot peppers. 1 tablespoon salt. 
1 tablespoon celery seed. 1 tablespoon white mustard seed. 


1 cup sugar. 


Grind the peppers and onions, salt, pour hot water over and 
let stand one-half hour, drain off, add celery seed, mustard 
seed and sugar and one pint of vinegar. Cook three-fourths 


hour. Miss Mary D. Groree. 
Pepper Relish (Sweet Pepper) 

12 red peppers. 1 pint vinegar. 

12 green peppers. 1 cup sugar. 

12 onions. 3 tablespoons salt. 


Remove seeds from peppers and chop with onions, cover with 
boiling water and cook five minutes. Drain, add other in- 
gredients and cook five or ten minutes. Pour into clean hot 
jars and seal. A few celery or white mustard seed added 1m- 
proves this relish. Mrs. Citarence Howe Lt. 


8 113 


KNOX GELATINE is measured ready for use—two envelopes in 
each package 





Green Tomato Mince Meat 


1 peck green tomatoes. 14 peck apples. 

2 lemons. 4 pounds brown sugar. 

2 pounds raisins. 14 pound citron (cut fine). 
1 pint cider (or weak vinegar). 1 teaspoon nutmeg. 

1 tablespoon cloves. 1 tablespoon cinnamon. 


2 teaspoons salt. 


Chop tomatoes, apples and lemons fine, cook tomatoes, lemons 
and sugar three hours, then add boiled cider, other fruits and 
spices and salt. Cook about one-half hour longer, seal in fruit 


jars while hot. Mrs. Crarence Howe tt. 
Chili Sauce 

2 dozen tomatoes. 2 tablespoons salt. 

3 green peppers. 1 tablespoon each of ground Bee 

3 onions. Brand spices: Cloves, nutmeg, 

7 small hot peppers with seeds. ginger and allspice. 


1 quart vinegar. 


Scald and peel the tomatoes, cut them in small pieces and put 
with all the other ingredients into a granite saucepan. Cook 
very slowly for three hours, then bottle and seal. 

Miss Mary D. Gerorer. 


Universal Pickle 


1 gallon of vinegar. 34 pound of ground mustard. 
4 pounds of brown sugar. 34 pound of salt. 
2 tablespoons each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice, mace, nutmeg, ginger, 
mustard seed, celery seed, black pepper, horse radish. 
1 quart of onions. 


Rub mustard, salt and sugar together, add vinegar and other 
ingredients. Cucumbers, peaches, or vegetables may be added 
as they are gathered, add salt and vinegar if it weakens. Stir 


up well every other day. Mrs. H. I. Grass. 
Hedda Pickle 

1 quart small cucumbers. 1 quart large cucumbers cut in pieces. 

1 quart celery cut in pieces. 1 quart green tomatoes. 

1 quart beans. 1 quart green peppers. 

1 quart small onions. 1 quart cabbage. 


Put in salt water twenty-four hours. Scald in same water 
and drain. Dressing for Hedda Pickles: 


6 tablespoons of powdered mustard. 1 tablespoon of tumeric. 


1 tablespoon celery seed. 3 quarts cider vinegar. 
4 cups of sugar. 11% cups of flour. 


Mix and let boil three-fourths of an hour. Put in remainder 
of ingredients, then boil up and can. Mrs. E. A. Martin. 


114 





KNOX GELATINE makes Desserts, Salads, Candies, Puddings, 





Ices, Etc. 

Chow Chow 
1 gallon cabbage, chopped fine. 14 gallon green tomatoes. 
1 quart onions. 8 pods green pepper. 
4 tablespoons mustard. 2 tablespoons ginger. 
1 tablespoon cloves. 1 tablespoon cinnamon. 
1 tablespoon celery seed. 2 tablespoons salt. 
2 pounds sugar. 3 pints vinegar. 


Boil until tender and then put in jars. 
Mrs. M. M. Murcutson. 


Pickled Cucumber Rings 


Make a brine of salt and water to hold up an egg. Soak 
twelve large cucumbers, whole, three days, then soak in clear 
water three days, change water every day at the same time, 
then cut pickles in one-half inch slices taking out seeds (don’t 
scrape out the pulp any more than possible). Cover with 
vinegar, if strong, dilute it, and cook until tender, don’t cook 
too long, let stand in liquid you cook them in three days, then 
drain off and use it to make the syrup. To every one and one- 
half pints of liquid drained off add three pounds of brown 
sugar. To each one and one-half pints of liquid add Bee Brand 
spices, one tablespoon of broken cinnamon, one tablespoon mus- 
tard seed, one-half tablespoon of allspice, one-half tablespoon 
ground cloves. Boil liquid, spices and sugar and pour over 
rings. Do this three days, the last time heat rings and put in 
glass jars. Mrs. H. E. Groree. 


115 


The KNOX ACIDULATED package contains Lemon Flavoring 





SANDWICHES 


Peanut-Butter Mixtures 


Peanut butter moistened with a little cream salad dressing 
or butter is a favorite sandwich filling. The flavor blends par- 
ticularly well with preserved fruits, nuts and with such succu- 
lent vegetables as celery or onions. Peanut butter mixed with 
the following combinations is pleasing: 

Chopped dill, sweet or sour pickles, raisins, dates, figs or 
bananas; minced preserved ginger and lemon juice; cream 
cheese currant jelly, cream cheese and dates chopped and rubbed 
to a paste; thin slices of tomato, thin slices of sweet onion, 
chopped olive and celery. 


Cheese and Nut Sandwiches 


Cream cheese by adding enough hot water to make it soft 
enough to spread, chop nuts fine, add salad dressing and sprinkle 
with cayenne pepper, spread on thin slices of bread. 

Mrs. R. B. Tempreton. 


Tomato Mixtures 


A great variety of excellent sandwich mixtures may be made 
with tomato soup and cheese. This must, however, be well 
seasoned. 

BASIC RECIPE 
1 can tomato soup. 144 pound American cheese cut in 
2 or more egg yolks. small pieces. 

Simmer the soup until quite thick. Add the cheese and stir 
or beat with an egg beater until the cheese is melted. Add the 
beaten egg yolk and beat until it is cooked. Remove and cool. 
This makes about one pint. 

This may be varied by adding any of the following: 

Two tablespoons of capers; three or more finely minced 
pimientoes; two tablespoons or more of horseradish; finely 
minced green pepper; three or four chopped green pickles, or 
combinations of any of the above. 

Other seasonings that may be added are horseradish, onion 
juice, lemon juice, chopped celery, Worchestershire, or any 
meat sauce. 

Sandwiches made from any of the above mixtures are de- 
licious if the bread is first spread with butter seasoned with 
anchovy or sardine paste, or with plain butter and one of the 
prepared sardine, caviar or anchovy pastes. 


116 





Mam i umGeinicIn i hr or 


STAUDT’S BAKERY 


HARRISON AVENUE 


My Mother’s Bread 


Pies and Cakes — None Better 
Telephone 563 Established 1896 


CF 1 ie em tm Hm 


84 cece ff ff cerca ff {J cms fy [fmm fj } macs ff jf comm fff comer 9 ff exmcema |} }f comme ff }] eam fff ommeman f }] comeseem fi jf cormmmm jf |] excam ff |} commas fff} camesmcm ff} exer ff }] como ff fj ees ff fj samme ff Hf amma ff ff comers ft 


Cee ee el ee ee ee ee 


Egg Mixtures 


In egg mixtures allow one egg for every two or three sand- 
wiches. Five eggs make about one cup. 

The basis of the egg mixture is hard-cooked eggs mashed to 
a paste, moistened with cream, mayonnaise, melted butter or 
French dressing, allowing one-quarter cup of these to one cup 
of eggs, and seasoned with any of the following: 

Finely minced capers and pickles; equal parts of well-drained 
spinach seasoned with sauce instead of mayonnaise; mashed 
anchovies and chopped pickle; chopped olives; equal parts of 
ground cheese, chopped pimientoes or chopped green peppers 
and chives. 

When possible, serve fresh watercress with egg sandwiches. 


Ham Mixtures 


1. Substitute ham for chicken in any of the above mixtures. 

2. Put two cups of ham through the meat chopper, add 
sauce tartare to make a paste to spread, or one-half cup of 
chopped onions or a few drops of tabasco sauce. 

8. Put one cup of ham through the food chopper and three 
hard cooked eggs diced fine; add three or four tablespoons of 
capers or cream, with sufficient mayonnaise to moisten. Spread 
on slices of bread buttered with anchovy butter. 

4. Use two teaspoons of prepared mustard instead of capers. 

5. Put one cup of ham through the meat chopper and season 
with enough prepared mustard and mayonnaise or melted butter 
to moisten. 


Club Sandwich 


On a thin slice of buttered toast place a lettuce leaf, then a 
layer of sliced chicken. Spread over this a salad dressing, 
preferably mayonnaise. Place strip of bacon over this, then 
a second slice of toast. On top of this place a lettuce leaf, 
slice of tomato and sliced cucumber; spread with mayonnaise. 
Place the third slice of toast over this. Mrs. G. C. Henson. 


117 


Try KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE with the Lemon Flavor 
enclosed 


EKgg Sandwiches 


4 hard-boiled eggs. 1 tablespoon mustard. 
1 tablespoon butter. 14 teaspoon salt. 
14 teaspoon pepper. 1 tablespoon mayonnaise dressing. 


Mash all up fine together, spread on thin slices of bread. 
Mrs. C. D. Luavister. 


Bean Mixtures 


Other unusual sandwich mixtures suitable for the hearty 
picnic sandwich are made from canned beans, either navy or 
kidney, well drained and then put through the meat chopper. 

1. Use one cup of bean pulp and season with green pepper, 
onion, a few drops of tabasco, a little celery salt and a table- 
spoon of canned tomato soup, mayonnaise or cream. 

2. Add one-fourth cup or more of finely chopped lean crisp 
bacon to the above. 

Add one-half cup of chopped ham and one teaspoon of pre- 
pared mustard to the first mixture. 


Sandwiches 
Lettuce. Onions. Celery. 
Tomato. Cheese. 

Dice and mix well with mayonnaise, salt and pepper to suit 

taste. Mrs. W. I. Wettons. 
Sardine and Egg Sandwich 

1 can sardines. 1 dill pickle. 
3 boiled eggs. 3 tablespoon mayonnaise. 


Chop sardines and eggs together, add pickle and mix with 
mayonnaise, spread on toasted bread. Mrs. R. B. Temprzton. 


Cheese Filling for Sandwiches 


2 tablespoon melted butter. V4 pint of sweet milk. 
114 tablespoon flour. 1 cup of grated cheese. 


14 teaspoon of French mustard. 


Cook to a paste, remove from fire, add salt and paprika to 
taste, mustard and cheese. Stir until thoroughly mixed and 
smooth. Keeps a week. Mrs. Frep ALLEN. 


Cheese and Nut Salad or Sandwich Filling 


Grated cheese and finely chopped nuts, about equal parts, with 
mayonnaise or French’s salad dressing. Serve on lettuce or be- 
tween slices of bread. Mrs. U. B. Atexanper. 


118 


KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE saves the cost, time and bother 
of squeezing lemons 





Sandwiches 


Equal portions of figs, dates, prunes and raisins. Put in 
saucepan, add a little hot water, place on fire, stirring con- 
stantly. When of a smooth, soft consistency remove from fire. 
When cool add English walnuts finely cut, spread thinly on 
pieces of thin unbuttered bread. This sandwich is delicious 
with either hot chocolate, tea or coffee. 

Mrs. T. T. Wettons. 


Sandwich Fillings 


SUGGESTIONS FOR SANDWICH FILLINGS 
Peanut butter and bananas. 
Chopped peanuts with banana pulp, scraped. 
Hard-boiled eggs chopped fine. 
Season with salt, pepper and a speck of mustard, oil and 
vinegar, and a finely minced green or red pepper. 


Egg Sandwich 


Cut two slices of bread, on one put thin slices of onion and 
on the other put thin slices of sour pickle. Break one egg in 
a bowl with salt and pepper and beat until very light and 
cook in deep, hot fat and lay in between the slices of bread 
and serve hot. Mrs. A. P. Hepricx. 


Chicken Mixtures 

1. Put one cup of diced chicken with one or more of finely 
minced celery through the meat chopper. Add mayonnaise 
sufficient to moisten and salt and pepper to taste. 

2. Put one cup of diced chicken, one cup of diced celery 
and one-half cup of olives through the food chopper, add mayon- 
naise to moisten and celery salt to season. 

3. Use either peppers or pimientoes instead of olives. 


A Sardine Mixture 
Mix thoroughly one cup of boned sardines with one-quarter 
cup of tomato puree, mayonnaise or melted butter and pimiento, 
green pepper, lemon juice, or onion juice, tabasco sauce and 


celery salt to taste. 
Add one or two hard cooked egg yolks mashed to a paste with 


melted butter. 


hud 


Use KNOX GELATINE if you would be sure of results 





CANDY 
Nut Praline 
2 cups brown sugar. 34 cup boiling water. 
4 cup walnuts. Pinch of cream of tartar. 


Little vanilla. 


Boil sugar, water and cream of tartar until it forms soft ball 
in water. Set in a pan of cold water until it is cold. Beat 
until creamy. Add nuts and vanilla. Drop from spoon on 


buttered plate. Mrs. R. B. Temrreron. 
Fudge 

3 cups sugar. 1 cup milk or cream. 

1 tablespoon butter. 1 teaspoon vanilla, Bee Brand. 


4 or 5 tablespoons cocoa or 2 ounces unsweetened chocolate. 


Put sugar, milk, cocoa or chocolate into pan; stir and boil 
until it makes soft ball when tested in cold water; take from 
fire, add butter and vanilla, cool and stir until creamy. Pour 
on buttered plates and cut in squares. 


Mrs. W. H. Harris. 


Chocolate Fudge 


2 cups sugar. 1% cake chocolate. 
4 cup milk. 2 large tablespoons of butter. 
Pinch of cream of tartar. 1 tablespoon vanilla, Bee Brand. 


Cook sugar and milk until it comes to a boiling point, add 
cream of tartar melted in water, let it stand in cold water until 
cool, then beat until creamy. 


Cocoanut Divinity Candy 


1 can cocoanut, shredded. _ 3 cups granulated sugar. 
1 cup Karo corn syrup (white). 1 cup water. 
2 eggs (whites only). 1 teaspoon vanilla. 


Boil sugar, syrup and water together until it spins a thread. 
Remove one cup of this syrup and stand aside. Boil remaining 
syrup until it cracks in ice water. To the stiffly beaten egg 
whites slowly add the first cup of syrup, then the remaining 
syrup, beating constantly. As the beating becomes difficult, 
add the flavoring and cocoanut. When the mass can no longer 
be stirred, form in a loaf, or drop by spoonfuls on oiled paper. 
After the cocoanut has been added, the candy can be divided 
into two parts, coloring one-half a delicate pink. 

3 Miss Ruta WeatTHeERrty. 


120 


All you add is water and sugar to the Knox Acidulated Package 








Divinity Fudge 


21% cups sugar. ¥% cup Karo corn syrup (white). 
4 cup water. Whites of 2 eggs. 


1 cup broken walnuts. 


Boil sugar, syrup and water until it spins a thread. Begin 
pouring the syrup over the stiffly beaten egg whites—a very 
small amount each time—until the syrup is all beaten into the 
eggs. Beat constantly and, when the mass begins to hold its 
shape, drop by spoonfuls on oiled paper or place in a buttered 


platter and cut in squares. Miss Ruta WeatHerty. 
Pralines II 
1 cup nuts. 1 pound brown sugar. 


1 cup boiling water. 


Boil until a thick syrup is formed, remove from the fire and 
gradually add the nut meats. Place the mixture over the flame 
for-two minutes. Remove and stir. Pour or drop on waxed 
paper. Miss Mary D. Grores. 


Kondant for Centers 


2 pounds granulated sugar. 14 pint water. 
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar. 

Melt the sugar in cold water, add the cream of tartar and, 
when dissolved, boil up and skim; then place the lid on the 
saucepan for a few minutes. When the syrup is boiling at its 
own level, put in the candy thermometer and boil it to 240 
degrees or until it forms a soft ball. Sprinkle a platter with 
warm water, pour the syrup on it and again sprinkle with water 
to prevent crust forming. As soon as the syrup has slightly 
cooled, gather it up with a scraper into a heap and work it 
evenly and smoothly with the spatula or wooden spoon until it 
becomes creamy and solid. Knead it smooth and free from 
lumps. Fondant is better if allowed to ripen at least one hour 
(several days is better). It may be covered with a damp cloth 
and put away in acool place. From this foundation cream may 
be made any number of different candies. 


Miss Mary D. Gerorae. 


Cocoanut Candy 
1 egg white. 2 pounds XXXX or confectioners 
Shredded or grated cocoanut. sugar. 
Beat white of egg well, add sugar, and stir until smooth; roll 
as preferred. Nuts may be used instead of cocoanut. 
Mrs. W. I. WEttons. 


121 


Dainty Recipes in each Knox Gelatine package 


Delicious Candy 


2 cups of white sugar. 1 cup of milk. 
34 pound of dates. 44 pound or more of crystalized 
1 cup of pecans. cherries. 


Cook milk and sugar until hard ball forms in water; seed 
dates, break up nuts, and cut cherries rather fine. When candy 
has formed hard ball, take off stove and drop in cherries, dates 
and nuts immediately while still boiling. Stir hard and fast 
until dates melt. Then roll in wet towel. When hard, cover in 
powdered sugar and cut in slices with knife. 


Mrs. H. I. Grass. 


Cream Candy 


1 pound white sugar. 3 tablespoons vinegar. 
1 teaspoon extract lemon. 1 teaspoon cream of tartar. 


Add a little water to moisten sugar. Boil until brittle. Add 
extract. Pour quickly in buttered plates to cool. Pull until 


white, and cut into squares. Mrs. J. EH. Ropy. 
Pralines 

2 cups XX XX sugar. 4 cup milk. 

1 cup maple syrup. 2 cups nut meats. 


Boil the sugar, maple syrup and milk together till it forms a 
soft ball, in cold water. Cool and beat till creamy, add nuts 
and drop the mixture by spoonfuls on waxed paper. 

Miss Mary D. Georce. 


Chocolate Marshmallow Fudge 


2 cups sugar. 3 tablespoons butter. 
1 cup milk. 14 teaspoon salt. 
2 squares chocolate. 10 marshmallows. 


2 drops vanilla. 

_ Melt chocolate over boiling water, add sugar and milk, stir- 
ring until sugar is dissolved. Cook slowly, without stirring 
(this causes it to be grainy), until it forms a soft ball in cold 
water. Remove from fire, add marshmallows and vanilla and 
butter. Let cool, and beat until creamy. Turn in buttered plate 
and cut in squares. Mrs. R. B. Tempreton. © 


Milk Chocolate Fudge 


1 pound brown sugar. 1 cup white sugar. 
1 cup milk. 1 teaspoon butter. 
4 pound Baker’s chocolate. 


Mix and cook till it forms soft ball when dropped in cup of 
cold water. Treat as plain fudge. Mrs. W. I. Wettons. 


122 


KNOX GELATINE is highest quality and worth its price 





Chocolate Cocoanut Fudge 


1 cupful canned cocoanut (being sure the milk has been pressed out.) 
2 cups granulated sugar. 4 or 5 tablespoons grated chocolate 
¥4 cup cocoanut milk. added to sugar. 

Butter size of walnut. 

Put sugar, chocolate and milk in saucepan and boil twelve to 
fifteen minutes, stirring constantly. Before removing from 
fire, add cocoanut and butter, and beat until cool. Pour into a 
small buttered tin and cut into squares before it hardens. For 
“plain fudge omit cocoanut. Miss Mary D. Grorez. 


Peanut Brittle 


2 cups granulated sugar. 1 teaspoon butter. 
1 cup coarsely chopped nuts. 

Put the sugar into an iron saucepan and let it melt over a 
moderately hot fire; add the butter and nuts, and immediately 
pour into a well-greased pan. Cut into squares when sufficiently 
cool. Miss Annie Ricuarpson. 


Cocoanut Candy 


2 cocoanuts. 21% pounds sugar. 
1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Wet sugar with milk of cocoanuts and let cook as for icing 
until it ropes; then add grated cocoanut and cook a few min- 
utes, stirring constantly; pour into a bowl, add vanilla, and stir 
until it begins to harden. Spread on buttered dish and cut into 


squares. Miss Neture Stein. 
Sea Foam 

2 cups brown sugar. 4 cup water. 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract. 14 cup chopped nuts. 
1 egg white. 


Boil sugar and water till a little dropped in cold water forms 
a soft ball. Pour the hot mixture over the stiffly beaten white 
of the egg, beating while pouring; add nuts and extract, and 
beat vigorously till the candy stiffens. When nearly set, drop 
by spoonfuls on paper. Miss Anniz Ricwarpson. 


Peanut Penuche 
1 tablespoon butter. 34 cup peanuts (chopped). 
1/3 cup milk. 1/3 teaspoon salt. 

Melt butter, add sugar and milk. Boil until mixture forms 
soft ball in water. Remove from fire, cool, and beat until 
creamy; add nuts sprinkled with salt. Turn in buttered plate. 
Cut in squares. Mrs. R. B. TEMPLETON. 


123 


Each package of KNOX GELATINE makes FOUR PINTS of jelly 


Mints 
2 cups granulated sugar. ¥ cup water. 
1/8 pound butter. 

Boil until it forms a hard, brittle lump that will ring against 
the side of a cup, or shatter off when struck against the table. 
If using a thermometer, boil candy to 260 degrees. Pour on 
platter that has been dipped in cold water. Almost before it 
has had time to cool, it must be pulled. Flavoring and coloring 
must be worked in immediately. Use pink for wintergreen, and 
green for peppermint, or leave the candy white and flavor with 
peppermint. Cut with scissors. After they are cold, the mints 


should be packed in an air-tight box until they are creamy. 
Miss Mary D. George. 


Sea Foam 
2 cups brown sugar. 1 egg white. 
4 cup water. 14 teaspoon vanilla. 
1 tablespoon vinegar. 4 cup walnuts or pecans. 


Dissolve sugar thoroughly in water, add vinegar, and cook 
slowly until syrup will form a rather hard ball when dropped 
in cold water. Have egg white stiffly beaten, and add syrup 
slowly, beating mixture constantly; then add flavoring and 
nuts, and beat steadily until candy is stiff enough to drop well. 
Drop from spoon on oiled paper, or pour into buttered dish 
and cut when cool. If strong vinegar is used, use only one-half 
tablespoon. Miss EsteLtte Crowner. 


Nut Loaf 
2 cups granulated sugar. 1 tablespoon Karo syrup. 
6 tablespoons water. 

Boil until it forms soft ball in water, let cool, then beat until 
creamy and add one cup of nuts (pecans or walnuts), well 
worked in. If the candy hardens or crumbles work small 
amount with the hands and add more to it until all is creamy. 
Then form in long ropes about one inch thick and cut in one- 
half inch slices. Miss Mary D. Gerorez. 


Fruit Roll 


Take two cups sugar, one cup milk and butter the size of 
an egg, cook until it will set in cold water, then take off and 
beat until it begins to thicken, then pour in one cup nuts, one 
cup dates and ten cents worth of cherries. Stir them in thor- 
oughly and pour upon a damp napkin and roll. Pat it down 
so it will be firm and hard. Slice with a sharp knife. 

Miss Mary D. Georges. 


124 


Where recipes call for Gelatine, use KNOX SPARKLING 
GELATINE 





Peanut Brittle 


2 cups sugar. 1 teaspoon soda. 
1 cup chopped roasted peanuts. 


Heat sugar until dissolved in liquid form. Add soda and 
while foaming add peanuts. Pour on buttered board. Roll 
very thin, quickly. Break into pieces. Mrs. OC. E. Guenn. 


Butter Scotch 


2 cups sugar. 2 tablespoons water. 
2 tablespoons butter. 


Boil without stirring until brittle when tested in cold water. 
Pour out on buttered plates to cool. Mrs. W. H. Harris. 


Divinity Fudge 


4 cups granulated sugar. 1 cup water. 
4 tablespoonsful Karo syrup 4 eggs (whites). 
‘ (red label). 11% cups walnut meats. 


Put sugar, syrup and water in saucepan, stir until sugar 
melts, then cook until, when dropped in cup cold water, it 
forms soft ball, then pour one-third of this into the stiffly beaten 
whites of the four eggs, then place pan back on stove and cook 
sugar again until when dropped in water it forms a hard ball. 
Now pour one-half of this into the egg whites, beating all the 
time, then place the pan again on fire and cook the third time, 
this time until when dropped in water it forms a very hard ball, 
then pour the balance of sugar into the eggs and beat hard until 
creamy. Drop on a tray or dish in large lumps and cut into 
small pieces. Real good. Mrs. W. R. Dorserr. 


Peppermints 


2 cups sugar. 1 cup water. 
2 tablespoons butter. 

Boil without stirring until a soft ball is formed in cold water. 
Pour out on greased platter. When cool add two or three drops 
of mint and coloring water. Work with hands until creamed. 

Miss RutuH W8aATHERLY. 


Cocoanut Candy 


Mix four cups powdered sugar, one egg white and four table- 
spoons water, then add one cup grated cocoanut, one teaspoon 
Bee Brand vanilla extract and one-half teaspoon lemon extract. 
Beat until stiff, then mold into balls. Set away to harden. 

Miss Mary D. Georce. 


125 


KNOX GELATINE solves the problem of ‘‘What to have for 
dessert”’ 





Molasses Taffy 


2 cups granulated sugar. 2 cups molasses. 
14 teaspoon soda. 2 tablespoons vinegar. 


2 tablespoons butter. 


Boil the sugar, molasses, vinegar and butter over a slow fire 
to 255 degrees (candy thermometer), or to a hard ball when 
dropped in cold water. Stir constantly during last part of 
cooking. Just before removing from the fire stir in one-fourth 
teaspoon of soda. Pour into buttered tins and when cool 
enough to handle butter the hands lightly and pull until light 
and firm. Draw out and cut into one inch lengths. 

Miss Mary D. Gerorer. 


Fondant 
21% pounds sugar. 14 teaspoon cream of tartar. 


114 cups water (hot). 


Put ingredients in pan and mix well. Stir until it begins 
to boil and then boil slowly until it forms a soft ball in cold 
water. Pour slowly on buttered platter and allow this to stand 
for a minute to cool but not long enough to harden around 
edges. Work with wooden spoon until white and creamy. It 
will begin to lump quickly but this can be avoided by kneading 
until smooth. Put in bowl, cover with oil paper and let stand 
for twenty-four hours. Mrs. R. B. Tempreron. 


Divinity Candy 


2 cups sugar. 14 cup Karo corn syrup. 
¥% cup water. Pinch salt. 


Whites of 2 eggs. 


Boil until it hardens in water. Then pour over the whites, 
beaten very stiff. Beat all together until creamy. Add nuts 
or candied cherries, or both. Mrs. W. H. Harris. 


Martha Washington Candy 


Melt two ten cent cakes of chocolate and one inch of parafine 
in double boiler. Keep warm while preparing filling, five cups 
sugar three cups water, one and one-half tablespoons vinegar. 
Let boil with candy thermometer standing in pan until it regis- 
ters 240 degrees, while cooking take whites of three eggs beaten 
stiff, add two tablespoons vanilla, pour sugar and water over 
(which has been cooking at proper temperature), and let it 
set to cool until it stops bubbling, then beat vigorously for a 
few minutes. Beat with a wooden spoon until it is creamy 
aud can be pinched off in balls the size of walnuts, dip hands 


126 


Use KNOX GELATINE—the Four-pint package 


in cornstarch while forming balls, have the chocolate mixture 
warm, take dipper, put cream balls in dipper and plunge in 
chocolate, drop on wax paper and put pieces of English walnuts 
on top of each ball. Don’t handle at once. Very good candy 
thermometers can be purchased at candy stores or drug stores. 


Mrs. J. A. CoLemMan. 


French Dainties (Candy) 
2 envelopes Knox Acidulated gelatine. 4 cups granulated sugar. 
14% cups boiling water. 1 cup cold water. 

Soak the gelatine in the cold water five minutes. Add the 
boiling water. When dissolved add the sugar and boil slowly 
for fifteen minutes. Divide into two equal parts. When some- 
what cooled add to one part one-half teaspoonful of the lemon 
flavoring, found in separate envelope, dissolve in one tablespoon- 
ful of water and one tablespoonful lemon extract. To the 
other part add one-half teaspoonful extract of cloves. Pour 
into shallow tins that have been dipped in cold water. Let 
stand overnight. Cut into squares with a knife dipped in hot 
water. Koll in fine granulated or powdered sugar and let stand 
until crystallized. Vary by using different flavors such as 
lemon, orange, peppermint, wintergreen, etc., and different 
colors, and adding chopped nuts, dates or figs. 

Mrs. T. T. Wettons. 


Chocolate Drops 


Yy pound chocolate. 2 cups granulated sugar. 
2/3 cup milk. 114 tablespoons butter. 


1 teaspoon Bee Brand vanilla. 


Put sugar and milk in a saucepan and stir until dissolved 
over quick fire. When boiling add chocolate, melted or grated, 
let boil just three minutes, then drop in butter and remove from 
fire. Add vanilla and pour on shallow ungreased dish. Beat 
until thick enough to drop without spreading. Drop on waxed 


paper. Let stand to harden. Miss Mary D. Guroree. 
| French Cream 

White of 1 egg. 14 teaspoon cold water. 

1 teaspoon vanilla, Bee Brand. 1 pound XX XX sugar. 


Mix white of egg, water and vanilla, beat until thoroughly 
mixed, then add gradually the sugar until the mixture is stiff 
enough to knead. This cream may be used instead of cream 
fondant for such things as cream walnuts and dates. 


Miss Mary D. Gerorcr. 
L237 


KNOX GELATINE makes a transparent, tender, quivering jelly 


Peanut Butter Fudge 


3 cups sugar. 10 tablespoons peanut butter. 
34 cup water. 3 tablespoons butter. 

Mix sugar and water and peanut butter and cook to soft ball 
stage. Remove from fire and add butter, set in pan of cold 
water. Do not move or stir until cool. When cool beat until 
creamy, pour into a buttered pan and cut into squares. A 
pinch of salt added when removed from fire takes away the 
flat taste. (Try lining buttered pan with waxed paper and see 
how easy it 1s to cut candy into squares without tearing it up.) 


Miss Rutn Dew. 


Turkish Delight 


3 tablespoons Knox’s gelatine. 2 cups sugar. 
Grated rind and juice 1 lemon. Grated rind and juice 1 orange. 
4 cup cold water. 4 cup hot water. 


Red, yellow or green coloring. 


Soak the gelatine in cold water. Put the sugar and hot 
water in a saucepan. When it reaches the boiling point add 
the gelatine and simmer twenty minutes. Add color and flavor- 
ing. Strain into a bread pan which has been rinsed in cold 
water. The mixture should be from one-half to one inch in 
depth. When it is cold turn it onto a board, cut into cubes 
or other shapes and sprinkle or roll in XX XX sugar. 

Miss Mary D. Gerores. 


128 





TE a Se Ree lee a | Kabhie mPa dat AGT Ma Ty, : 
Weal ‘ SOY 18 Le’ ; 


e ay) « 


04 
ay, 
t 
x 


‘ 
44 
Lar 
ne 
j 





a 
sit Ke 


oy 









hae 
Ure 


RN oat! 
ee 
: 





fy a 
Se tha es 
PRR lhe, r 
aga . 








KNOX stands for Quality and Quantity in Gelatine 





BEVERAGES 
Milk Julep 
1 egg. 1 cup milk. 
1 tablespoon sugar. Salt. 
Vanilla. 


Beat the egg until light, add the sugar, beat, then add the 
other ingredients. Mix or shake well and chill. When ready 
to serve beat or shake until foamy. 

Variations: Add one tablespoon of chocolate syrup; sprays 
of mint; grated nutmeg or cinnamon; whipped cream; one tea- 


spoon of caramel and one tablespoon of ice cream. 
Miss Mary D. Grorer. 


Chocolate Syrup 


3 squares chocolate, grated. 11% cups sugar. 
114 cups boiling water. 1 tablespoon cornstarch. 
Salt. Vanilla. 


Place the chocolate in a double boiler and pour boiling water 
over it. When it is melted add the dry ingredients which have 
been mixed together. Cook the mixture for about ten minutes, 
or until smooth and creamy. The syrup will keep in a cool 


place indefinitely. Miss Mary D. Gxores. 
Drinks 

Juice from 1 can pineapple. 1 quart ice water. 

Juice from 1 can pears. Juice of 2 lemons. 


A very little sugar will be needed, just enough to kill the 
sour taste. Mix and add enough ice to make very cold. 

The juice of any canned fruits combined with lemon juice 
will make a very good drink and will also save the syrup that 
would otherwise be thrown away. 

Miss RurnH WEaTHERLY. 


Cocoa 
3 tablespoons cocoa. 3 tablespoons sugar. 
3 cups boiling water. 1 cup condensed milk. 


Pinch of salt. 
Mix the cocoa, sugar and salt, and dilute with water, adding 
a little at a time. Boil about two minutes, pour in the milk 
and beat with an egg beater to prevent scum from forming on 
top. Improved by adding one-half teaspoon of Bee Brand 
vanilla just before serving. Miss Mary D. Georee. 


9 129 


+ 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
~ 





























VICTROLAS— RECORDS 


DARNELL & THOMAS 


118 Fayetteville St. RALEIGH, N.C. 























OF th am He 


Of 1) ee ht) FH eH 


Sugar Syrup 


Put two cups sugar and two cups water in saucepan, stir 
until sugar is dissolved; boil five minutes, cool and bottle. The 
syrup may be kept in the refrigerator and will be found much 
more satisfactory than sugar for sweetening lemon and orange- 


ade and fruit beverages. Miss Mary D. Grorae. 
Cocoa 

1 pint scalded milk. 1 pint boiling water. 

2 tablespoons cocoa. 2 to 4 tablespoons sugar. 


Mix cocoa and sugar. Stir in water and boil five minutes, 
add milk and cook five minutes longer. 


Mrs. T. T. Wettons. 


Orange Sparkle 


Take one-half glass of orange juice and fill to the top with 
cracked ice and add ginger ale. Miss Mary D. Groras. 


Grape Juice Punch 


Make a syrup of two cups of sugar and a cup of water, when 
cool add juice of six lemons and a pint of grape juice. Pour 
over a lump of ice a few minutes before serving. 


Mrs. W. L. Nevins. 


Peach Punch 
1 cupful sugar. 2 cupfuls sliced peaches and juice. 
2 cupfuls water. | 14 cupful lemon juice. 
4 cupful orange juice. Ice water. 


Boil the water and sugar together for one minute; set aside 
to cool. Force the peaches through a purée sieve and combine 
the pulp with the orange and lemon juice. Add to the cold 
syrup and let chill thoroughly. Just before serving, strain 
and dilute to taste with ice water. 

Miss RutH W#atTHERLY. 


130 





Desserts can be made in a short time with KNOX GELATINE 


Punch Recipe 
This will serve 75 people: 


Juice of 44% dozen lemons. Juice of 10 oranges. 
4 cans sliced pineapple cut up, 1 quart red cherries and juice. 
using juice also. 1 quart grape juice. 


3 or 4 bottles ginger ale. 


Make a syrup of sugar and water and sweeten to taste. Add 
enough water to make four gallons, allowing for ice to melt. 


Mrs. A. P. Hepricx. 


Lemonade 


Juice of 1 lemon. 34 cup water. 
2 tablespoons sugar. 
Put sugar in cup; add ice water; stir until sugar is dis- 
solved; add lemon juice and serve in glass with cracked ice. 


Miss Mary D. Gerorae. 


Delicious Coffee 


Use one heaping tablespoon of coffee to each cup. Use only 
fresh water and pour it over the coffee when it begins to boil. 
Allow it to stand at the boiling point, simmer two minutes. 
Scald the coffee pot. Miss Miuprep H. Smiru. 


Lemon Syrup 


Mix one cup sugar syrup and two-thirds cup lemon juice, 
strain and bottle, and keep in the refrigerator. When wanted 
dilute with six parts ice water to one part lemon syrup. Garnish 
glasses with slice of lemon, orange, maraschino cherry or sprig 
of mint. Miss Mary D. Gerorce. 


Chocolate-Egg Milk Shake 


1 egg. 1 cup milk. 
1 tablespoon chocolate syrup. 


Beat the egg, add the milk and the syrup. Shake thoroughly 


and serve. Miss Mary D. Groree. 
Fruit Punch 
Y¥% cup lemon juice. 34 cup sugar. 
Grated rind of half orange. | 1 cup orange Juice. 
1 tablespoon grated lemon rind. 1 quart water. 
Boil sugar and water for three minutes, cool and add other 
ingredients. Mrs. R. B. Tempieton. 


131 


KNOX ACIDULATED GELATINE—no bother—no trouble—no 
squeezing lemons 





RECIPES FOR THE SICK 


Invalid Muffins 


1 cup flour. 4 cup milk. 
1 teaspoon baking powder. 2 eggs (whites). 
4 teaspoon salt. 2 tablespoons melted butter. 


Mix and sift the dry ingredients, add the milk gradually, 
the whites of eggs well beaten, and lastly the melted butter. 
Bake in a moderate oven in buttered gem pans. After baking, 
let stand in the oven, with door open, until the crust is dry 


and crisp. Serve hot or cold. Miss Ruta Waatuerty. 
Apple Float 

1 dozen apples or a can of apples. 1% cups of sugar. 

2 lemons. 2 eggs (whites). 


Beat up apples, add sugar, and then grated rind and juice 
of lemons, the beaten whites of the eggs. Set in stove and 
brown. Miss Rut WEatTHERLY. 


Brown Betty 


Cut several apples into thin slices, have ready a buttered 
pudding pan. Put into this a layer of browned bread crumbs, 
then a layer of the apples, and continue until the pan is full. 
Let bread crumbs be the top layer. Put several small pieces 
of butter on top and set in oven to brown. Serve with a sauce. 

Miss Este~tte Crowner. 


Invalids Tea 


1 teaspoon tea. 1 cup scalded milk. 
Sugar to taste. 

Bring the milk quickly to the scalding point and pour it 
over the tea. Let the two infuse four minutes, strain and serve 
with or without sugar just as patient prefers. Tea made this 
way is nourishing as well as stimulating. 

Mrs. Kennetu Youncer. 


Hot Cocoa or Chocolate 


One teaspoonful of cocoa, or bar chocolate, same amount. 
Two teaspoonsful sugar, mix with a very little hot water. Then 
add one-half cup sweet milk, one-half cup hot water. Let come 
to boil, serve at once with a marshmallow on top, or whipped 
cream. Miss Esterux Crowver. 


132 





FOUR separate Desserts or Salads from one package of Knox 
Gelatine 


Stuffed Prunes 


Boil until tender, stone and stuff with English walnuts and 
serve with sugar and cream. Any amount can be used. 
Miss Ruta WatTHeErty. 


Baked Apples 


Wash and core good, uniform apples. Put into a baking pan, 
fill the center of each apple with sugar, and add a bit of butter 
on the top. Add enough water to cover the bottom of the pan. 
Cinnamon or nutmeg may be sprinkled on top if desired. Bake 
in a hot oven until soft; baste with the juice in the pan. If 
desired fill the centers with whipped cream and serve. 

Miss Ruta WeraTHERLY. 


Apple Snow 


Take two cupfuls of well sweetened stewed apples, beat to a 
pulp and add the white of one egg. Beat for half an hour, 
the longer it is beaten the whiter it will be. 

Miss Esterte Crowner. 


Beef Juice 


One-half pound beef yields two ounces of juice. Cut top 
round of beef in small pieces. Heat in ungreased frying pan 
over moderate heat two minutes to start juices. Press out 
juices with meat press. Serve in warm cup. Add salt to 
taste. Prepare enough for one serving as juice does not keep. 

Mrs. KennetH Younaer. 


Chocolate Milk Shake 


1 teaspoon cocoa or chocolate. 2 teaspoons sugar. 
Y4 cup water. 
Boil for two minutes, cool, add to two glasses of milk and 
one-half cup chipped ice. Shake well. 
, Miss Mary D. Grorae. 


Egg Omelet 


Beat the yolk of an egg until light, add salt and pepper to 
taste. Beat the white very light and add to yolk. Have a hot 
griddle well buttered and turn onto this browning well, set in 
oven a minute until the top crusts over. Score it across the 
center with a knife, fold it over and turn out on a dish gar- 
nished with lettuce or parsley. Miss Estetite CrowveEr. 


133 


KNOX GELATINE is economical—one package makes FOUR 
PINTS of jelly 





Baking Powder Biscuits 


1 cup flour. 1 teaspoon baking powder. 
14 teaspoon salt. 1 tablespoon lard. 


1/3 cup milk (sour). 

Sift dry ingredients, add lard, mixing well to dry ingredients 
before adding milk, then add milk and knead until a firm 
dough. Bake in hot oven. This makes eight biscuits. 

Mrs. R. B. Tumereton. 


Junket 
1 cup milk. Vy junket tablet. 
2 tablespoons sugar. 2 teaspoons cold water. 


1% teaspoon vanilla. 


Heat milk in double boiler until lukewarm. Stir in sugar 
and flavoring. Dissolve junket tablet in cold water and stir 
into milk. Let stand until cold and set. Put in refrigerator 
until ready to serve. Plain or whipped cream may be served 
with junket if desired. Junket may be flavored with nutmeg, 
cocoa or coffee. Mrs. KennetH Youncer. 


Apple Float 


Beat the whites of two eggs, with three-fourths cup of sugar 
until stiff, then beat into this three cupfuls of steamed apples 
slightly sweetened. The apples should not be juicy, but cooked 
with as little water as possible, pressed through a sieve; re- 
turned to the stove and added to the beaten egg whites while 
hot. This will keep several hours. 

Miss Este~tte Crowner. 


Oatmeal Gruel 


4 teaspoon salt. 1% cups boiling water. 
4 tablespoons oatmeal. 

Add salt to boiling water, stir in oatmeal, cook ten minutes 
over slow, direct heat, stirring to prevent sticking. Place in 
double boiler and cook one hour. Strain, add milk if desired. 
Reheat and serve. Mrs. Kennetu Younaer. 


Prune Whip 


Take three cups of prunes thoroughly cooked, remove seed 
and put through sieve. Sweeten to taste, but if cooked with 
a very little water they will not need much sugar. Beat the 
whites of two eggs until stiff, add the prunes and continue to 
beat until it is all very light. Miss Esterte Crowner. 


134 


KNOX GELATINE is measured ready for use—two envelopes in 
each package 


Invalid Rolls 


1 cake yeast dissolved in half-cup 1 cup of sweet milk (let boil up). 
warm water. 1 tablespoon lard. 
1 teaspoon sugar. 2 teaspoons salt. 

White of one egg beaten stiff, dissolve lard, sugar and salt 
in milk, then add the whites of eggs after milk cools, then add 
yeast dissolved in warm water, add flour enough to make a 
stiff dough, then set and let rise for two or two and one-half 
hours. Then knead again and make into rolls. Let rise again. 
Then bake in a moderately hot oven. 

Mrs. T. T. Wettons. 


Beef Tea 
14 pound round steak. Vg pint water. 


1/3 teaspoon salt. 


Cut the meat in small pieces, add the cold water and stand 
aside for half an hour. Then place in a glass jar, cover and 
stand in a saucepan of cold water, let it heat slowly and cook 
two hours. It is better to have the jar raised from the bottom 
of the saucepan that it may not come in contact with the heat 
of the range. You can use a saucer upside down. 


Mrs. H. E. Grorees. 


Egg-in-Nest 


Make toast crisp brown, using butter as desired. Beat the 
white of an egg, with a little salt, until stiff. Pile lightly on 
a piece of toast and slip back in oven to brown the top lightly. 
Place the unbroken yolk in the center and add a bit of salt 
and black pepper if desired. Serve this while hot. 

Miss Estate CrowbveEr. 


Grape Fruit Jelly (Individual) 


14 tablespoon Knox sparkling ¥4 tablespoon cold water. 
gelatine. 1 tablespoon boiling water. 
1 tablespoon sugar. 1/3 cup grapefruit juice. 


Soak gelatine in cold water three minutes, add boiling water 
and sugar, place over hot water and let stand until gelatine 
has dissolved; then add grapefruit juice, strain into a wet mold, 
and chill. Miss Mary D. Guroree. 


135 


A KNOX GELATINE Dessert or Salad is attractive and appetizing 





HOUSEHOLD HINTS 
WHEN COOKING MEATS, REMEMBER— 


Roast Meat 


Time per pound for cooking: ; 
Fifteen minutes for beef; eighteen minutes for lamb and 
chicken; twenty-two minutes for pork or veal. 


Boiled or Braised Meat 


Time per pound for cooking: 
Twenty-five minutes for fresh meats, fowl and ham; thirty- 
five minutes for corned meats. 


Broiled or Fried Meat 


Time for cooking: 

Five to ten minutes for lamb chops, beefsteak or liver; twenty 
minutes for chicken, veal or pork; from eight to ten minutes 
for breaded cutlets, or chops; twenty minutes for breaded 
chicken. 


WHEN COOKING VEGETABLES, REMEMBER— 


Green Vegetables 


Green vegetables should be put into boiling water and cooked 
rapidly. Long, slow cooking destroys flavor and vitamins. 
Season just before removing from fire. 


Winter Vegetables 
Winter vegetables should be put into boiling water in order 
to retain flavor. 
Dried Vegetables 


Dried vegetables should be soaked over night in cold water, 
and then placed on the stove in cold water. If necessary to 
add more water, add boiling water only. 


Time For Cooking Vegetables 


Although no exact time can be given for cooking the various 
vegetables (as much depends upon the age and freshness) yet 
the following table will help to some extent the inexperienced 
cook. But it is always best to test with a fork or taste. 


136 


Try the KNOX GELATINE recipes found in this book 


Potatoes, boiled, twenty-five minutes. 
Potatoes, baked, forty-five minutes. 
Sweet potatoes, boiled, forty-five minutes. 
Sweet potatoes, baked, one hour. 

Squash, boiled, twenty-five minutes. 
Squash, baked, one hour. 

Green peas, boiled, twenty to forty minutes. 
Shelled beans, boiled, one hour. 

String beans, boiled, one hour. 

Green corn, boil quickly, twenty minutes. 
Asparagus, fifteen to thirty minutes. 
Spinach, one hour. 

Tomatoes, fresh, one-half hour. 
Tomatoes, canned, one-fourth hour. 
Cabbage, three-fourths to one hour. 
Cauliflower, one hour. 

Dandelions, two hours. 

Onions, one and one-fourth hours. 
Beets, two hours. 

Turnips, white, forty-five minutes. 
Turnips, yellow, one and one-half hours. 
Parsnips, one and one-half hours. 
Carrots, one hour. 


Nearly all these vegetables are dressed with salt, pepper and 
butter, but sometimes a small piece of salt pork is boiled with 
them and seasons them nicely. 


For White Felt Hats 


Clean with a piece of fine sandpaper. Rub gently and it 
will remove dirt and spots. 


Boric Acid Solution Eye Wash 
About a teaspoonful to a pint of boiled water. 


Paste That Will Keep 


_ Mix four tablespoons of flour in cold water, making the 
consistency of cream. Add four cloves to a small saucepan of 
water and boil, then pour gently into the flour and water, 
stirring constantly until it thickens. Turn the mixture into 
the saucepan and boil for five minutes. Pour into a wide 
mouth bottle and pass the handle of a paste brush through a 
hole in the cork. 


a pair of shears in the kitchen will do lots for you, in the 


place of a knife. 
137 


KNOX GELATINE—Economy with highest Quality 


Instead of rolling chicken in flour for frying, put flour and 
chicken in a paper bag, and a few shakes will do the work. 


Save Time In Cleaning Pans 


When poaching or scrambling eggs, grease the pan before 
the egg is added or before the water is added for the poached 
egg and the eggs will not stick to the bottom of the pan. 


Save Tears When Handling Onions 


Every housekeeper knows that if onions are peeled under 
water they do not cause the eyes to smart. But does every 
housekeeper know that if the onions are placed on a wet cloth 
when they are being cut into pieces the result is quite as 
satisfactory? This method is a great help when dicing onions 
or cutting them into small pieces to be used as a seasoning. 


Left-Over Pie Crust 


If you have made up too much pie crust, place it in a cup 
and grease the top with lard and set in cool place. It will 
keep for several days, and putting lard on top prevents a crust 
from forming. Some people really prefer pie crust that has 
been made for several days. 


A Salad Suggestion 


Mothers with large families, try arranging individual salads 
on a large flat dish by placing the salad in nests of lettuce 
leaves, the same as when individual salad plates are used. Much 
time is saved washing and drying the many little plates where 
mothers do not have hired help. 


White Furniture May Be Cleaned 


_ White furniture may be cleaned by dissolving baking soda 
in warm water, a teaspoonful to a pint of water, and applying 
the solution to the furniture with a soft cloth, rubbing with 


a dry cloth afterward. Finger marks and dirt are easily re- 
moved in this simple way. 


To Keep The Cook Book Clean 


I have a piece of glass the exact size of my cook book when 
open. This is bound in inch-wide gummed paper. When I 
turn to a favorite recipe I place the glass over my book and 
thus save finger prints and grease spots from my most-used 
book. If you ever try this you will never be without a glass 
to use over your cook book while baking. 


138 


KNOX GELATINE is the one dessert for all appetites 





When Making Sandwiches 


When making a quantity of sandwiches, mix milk with the 
butter until it is of creamy consistency. This will spread 
easily and go much farther. 


To Make A Clean Cut 


Wet the knife before cutting pie with meringue on it and 
the result will be a clean, smooth slice. 


Nice Way to Peel Tomatoes For Serving 


Put tomatoes in colander, sieve, or sink and pour boiling 
water over them. Put in ice box or let cool, and when ready 
to slice the skin comes off and leaves tomatoes whole and un- 
broken. This is economical, too, as you lose none of the tomato. 


For Grease 


.To remove grease from a stone hearth or stone steps, pour 
on a strong solution of washing soda in boiling water, then cover 
the stain with a paste of fullers earth and let it remain over 
night. Brush off in the morning and repeat the process if the 
stain is not entirely removed. 


Provide Drainage 


Your house ferns will get good drainage if you put an inch 
layer of broken crockery in the bottom of the pot. 


Good For Salads 
Celery tops may be utilized for garnishing salads or cold 
meats. 
Home-Made Glue 


A good glue for sticking labels on to glass or tin is made 
by mixing one part of powdered gum arabic with one of starch 
and four of sugar. 


White or Cream Sauce 


When making white or cream sauce it is advisable to make 
more than you will need and keep the rest in the icebox for 
use another day. 


Sharpening Needles 


When the needle on your sewing machine has become dull 
stitch for several inches through a very fine piece of sandpaper. 


139 


See that the name KNOX is on each package of Gelatine you buy 





Soak In Borax 


Remove stains made by chocolate or cocoa by soaking in cold 
strong borax water for a while and then pouring boiling water 
through in the usual manner. 


Don’t Begin To Save On Milk 


Children must have it; adults ought to. Mulk builds bone 
and muscle better than any other food. 


Spend At Least As Much For Milk As For Meat 


Remember that a quart of milk is equal in food value to a 
pound of steak. “A quart of milk a day for every child” is a 
good rule—easy to remember. At least try to provide a quart 
of milk a day for every member of the family. 


Baking By Temperature 


For the benefit of housewives who follow the new method 
of temperature cooking, and for those who wish to learn how, 
the following table is given: 


Food Oven Temperature Time 
Cake,layers boo ae Hot or quick__ 450°F_10 to 15 minutes 
Drop or cup cake___-.____- Moderate___. 380°F_30 to 35 minutes 
Loal cake shear meta Moderate_._. 850°F_45 to 50 minutes 
Print icakesee sare cee at Slowien s.aee 275°F_1 to 6 hours 
Sponge cake or angel food__Moderate__.. 325°F_30 to 45 minutes 
Muffins and corn bread___Moderate____ 400°F_25 to 30 minutes 
Biseittite eee aaa Hot or quick__ 450°F_10 to 15 minutes 
Gaingerbreaduece. 2c Moderate___. 325°F_30 to 35 minutes 
Quick loaf bread. __2__ 24) Moderate____ 350°F_45 minutes to 1 hour 
Cookies yeast /cid rae nae Moderate____ 380°F_12 to 15 minutes 
Cookies, molasses or 

chocolatey? fii ewes Moderate____ 350°F_15 to 20 minutes 


Double crust pie 
(uncooked filling) 


Double crust pie 


, 450°F _for 10 minutes and then 
Hot or quick. \400°R for 80 46/40 tninutes 


: ‘ 450°F _for 10 minutes and then 
(cooked filling)________- Hot or quick._{ 400° TH . for 20 neonates 
Pastry shellyni cm ae Hot or quick_. 500°F_12 to 15 minutes 
Custards (individual) __.__ Moderate____ 325°F_35 to 40 minutes 


Custards (baking dish)_._.Moderate.__. 325°F_60 to 70 minutes 


All the temperatures given on this page are for use with a 
gas range. If a coal range is used it will be necessary to de- 
duct 85°F in each case from the oven temperatures that are 
given. 


140 


et 


Free cook book offer in each package of Knox Gelatine 


How To Steam Fruit Cakes Or Puddings 


Place a wire rack in large pan with water or turn dish up- 
side down and place the pan containing cake on top of that 
to prevent burning. 


A Table of Measures 


2 Papa NicCH (DACKEG SOUGIY). boaters koe iis — 1 pound 
4 BR OSeOLOMU DONO) Sole os tem — 1 pound 
2 Piiesorenuiated sudan L ooumcu oN — 1 pound 
2 Plime DOWoeren sucaro smal a eo — 1 pound 
2 et LEON SU A ed eee fyi 7) ace 2 Siac — 1 pound 
2 PETG ACRES STONE E17 rag ALT hee pa ee — 1 pound 
PCS TOLEU ORts seca ee eee oy ee — 1 pound 
a Supa eranulated commeal ooo ev 2 — 1 pound 
Peirce ve meals ee Pau Ok — 1 pound 
PRMD ICO te cc ea i ke he — 1 pound 
Areca MaTanain UOun. owl cue ee NO Bua — 1 pound 
Be CUD RCO CC eet Oe gu ulrc ra ae Ct — 1 pound 
2 cups finely chopped meat__._........-.------- = 1 pound 
9 TESORO SPUR EARN Ms elo 0 eR = 1 pound 
1 Bauare Isaner s: chocolatey lea a — 1 ounce 

1/3 cup almonds, blanched and chopped_-_-_---_------ — 1 ounce 
3 Be ee OG ORCTYy Jet ate ct eh en Se Sg =—- 1 tablespoon 
6 AEN UTESIIT (0) 0 (CL) x ae Rag al cpa er 7 AN gr ee == 1 cup 
2 PalesOCnerOUteer snubs Oe ee = 1 ounce 
4 Rates POOmn ALOUT sii eins et a == 1 ounce 
4 PES OO Tem) © scene tS ee ee a Uy aes — 1 tablespoon 
4 TADIesDOOURe MO UI) OL. 1b. ee == 1 wine glass 
2 IG eases ne ae ek, ms ee ee — | gill 
2 ig BESN ACIS GPVAG | Ge Ome y googe Cah et anon MN pene TUE Fey all cup 
2 ie Re IM eG aoa AAT ony WLI An UteeR Pave = 1 pint 
2 Sealy @ tetas Gul tes te, Lt aS eg Re OG ROR MP aa ag LL Ac a = 1 quart 
1 tip "qiauiay) RMN ere ete PREC ANE ORD RUS ALUN) ORR Ta i, oi ay, pint 


A grain is less than 4% teaspoon. 


Salads To Serve With Light Meats 


Celery-grape-apple. 
Walnut-pimiento-apple. 
Endive; romaine; radish. 
Lettuce; asparagus. 
Orange-grapefruit-pimiento. 
Grapefruit-peach-lettuce. 
Lettuce-pineapple-cheese. 
Stringbean-green pepper-onion. 
Tomato-pepper. 
Celery-pecan. 
Cabbage-tomato-peppers. 
Cabbage-carrot-stringbeans. 
Cabbage-celery-beet. 

Jellied vegetables. 


141 


Knox Sparkling Gelatine makes dainty desserts for dainty people 





Salads To Serve With Heavy Meats 


Celery-pepper. Potato-cabbage-pimiento. 
Tomato-cabbage-pepper. Horseradish-tomato. 
Beet-pickle-olive. Cold Slaw; cabbage-celery- 
Cabbage-beet. apple. 
Chestnut-celery-beet. Cabbage-bacon-beet (hot). 


Potato-apple-pepper. 
Salads To Serve With Fish 


Celery-olive. Cress. 

Cucumber-radish. Romaine. 

Celery-pepper. Endive. 
Tomato-pepper-cabbage. Stringbean-onion-pepper. 
Cabbage-beet. Cucumber-celery-pepper. 
Asparagus. Cabbage-cucumber. 
Pepper. Tomato-pimiento-cabbage. 
Beet. 


Salads To Serve As Refreshments 


Chicken-Celery-Egg. Chicken-Pea-Cucumber-Nuts. Chicken-Aspara- 
gus-Mushroom. Sweetbread-Celery-White Grape. Sweetbread-Cucumber- 
Celery. Crab. Shrimp. Lobster. Lobster-Celery-Egg. Oyster-Celery- 
Egg. Tuna or Halibut-Celery-Egg. Celery-Grapes-Nuts. Banana-Pine- 
apple-Grapes. Pineapple-Orange-Fig-Date. | Peach-Pecan-Maraschino 
Cherry. Banana-Peanut. Pear-Cheese-Nuts. Date-Cheese-Pineapple. 


Substantial Salads 


Egg. Potato. Nut-Cheese. Ham-Egg. Chicken. Tongue. Ham. 
Salmon. Potato-Tongue. Potato-Egg-Pimento. Lima Bean-Egg-Cucumber. 
Cream Cheese-Peanut Butter. Cabbage-Chestnut-Egg. Salmon-Celery. 
Salmon-Cucumber. Shadroe-Cucumber. Sardine-Potato. 


Sandwiches Which May Be Served With Salad 


Moisten with salad dressing: Chopped, hard-boiled eggs; chopped meat; 
chopped meat and chopped pickle; chopped nuts and dates; chopped olives 
and celery; chopped ripe olives and walnuts; chopped cheese and pimento; 
peanut butter sandwiches; sliced ham and mustard; sliced beef and dill; 
sliced chicken and tomato; cubed cucumbers and radishes. 


How To Remove Water Stains From Mahogany 
or Walnut Furniture 
Rub plain liquid camphor on stained places and it will dis- 
appear immediately. 
How To Rid House of Roaches 


Clean places they frequent, then sprinkle powdered borax 
and they will leave. 


142 


Give the growing children Knox Sparkling Gelatine 


Perfectly Balanced Menus 


Choose only one from each group—. e., one soup, one meat, 
one watery vegetable, one starchy vegetable, one salad, one des- 


sert. 
courses. 
1, Soups. 2, Meats. 
5, Salads. 6, Desserts. 
Menu 1 


Cream Tomato. 
Vegetable. 


Mutton, Lamb, Roast, 
Stew, Flank, Shoulder. 


White Potatoes, Rice, 
Hominy, Parsnips. 


Carrots, Onions, 
Spinach, Beets. 


Mint, Current Jelly, 
Cucumber, Cress, 
Lettuce, Orange. 


Stewed Fruits, Gelatines, 
Light Steamed Puddings. 


Menu 2 


Bouillon. 
Consomme. 


Pork, Roast, Chops. 
Shoulder, Spare Ribs. 


White Potatoes, Rice, 
Navy Beans, Parsnips. 


Cabbage, Beets, 
Squash, Onions. 


Apple-Celery. 
Cold Slaw. 
Lettuce, Tomato, 


Acid Gelatines. 
Fruit Sherbets. 
Fresh Fruits. 


3, Starchy Vegetables. 


143 


Do not repeat the same flavor, as “tomatoes,” in two 


4, Watery Vegetables. 


Menu 3 


Cream of Onion. 
Cream of Asparagus. 
Cream of Cucumber. 


Veal, Roast. 
Shoulder, Chops, Cutlets. 


Sweet Potatoes, Corn, 
Egg Plant, Oyster Plant. 


Asparagus, Tomatoes, 
Cauliflower, Onions. 


Tomato-Mayonnaise, 
Cabbage-Pepper. 


Stewed Fruits. 
Light Steamed Puddings. 
Cornstarch, Custards. 


Menu 4 


Cream of Pea. 
Tomato, Okra. 
Cream of Corn. 


Chicken, Roast. 
Fricasse, Pot Pie, Fried. 


Sweet Potatoes, Peas, Rice, 
Lima or Butter Beans, Corn. 


Mushrooms, Cauliflower, 
Brussels Sprouts, Peppers. 


Apple-Nut-Mayonnaise. 
Raisins-Egg-Sardine. 


Custards. 
Fruit Souffles. 
Pastry. 


Knox Sparkling Gelatine improves Soups and Gravies 


Menu 5 


Oyster. 
Cream of Asparagus. 
Cream of Cauliflower. 


Turkey, Duck, 
Goose, Squab. 


White Potatoes, Corn, 
Rice, Hominy. 


Asparagus, Onions, 
Tomatoes, Squash. 


Grape, Currant Jelly, 
Apple-Celery, Cress, 
Lettuce, Orange. 


Acid Gelatines, 
Fruit Ices, 
Stewed Fruits. 


Menu 6 


Cream of Pea. 
Ox Tail: 
Clam Broth. 


Sweetbreads, Brains, 
Tripe, Kidneys. 


Butterbeans, String Beans, 
Peas, Rice, Oyster Plant. 


Spinach, Carrots, 
Celery, Beets. 


Egg, Sardine, 
Apple-Celery-Nut, 
Lettuce-Cheese-Nut. 


Custards. 
Fruit Souffles. 
Pastry. 


Menu 


Cream of Cauliflower. 
Cream of Spinach. 
Cream of Carrot. 
Oysters, Clams, Lobsters. 


Sweet Potatoes, Beans, 
White Potatoes, Corn. 


144 





Menu 7 


Consomme, 
Bouillon. 


Ham, Tongue, 
Baked or Casserole. 


White Potatoes, Rice, 
Hominy, Snaps (String Beans). 


Spinach, Carrots, 
Onions. 


Orange-Grapefruit, 
Cress, Beet Relish, 
Lettuce. 


Stewed Fruits, F 
Cornstarches, 
Tapiocas. 


Menu 8 


Cream of Onion, 
Cream of Tomato, 
Cream of Celery. 


Fish, Fresh Baked, 
Planked, Broiled. 


White Potatoes, Corn, 
Egg Plant, Rice. 


Asparagus, Carrots, 
Tomatoes, Beets. 


Cucumbers, Radishes, 
Lettuce—Cheese. 
Egg—Potato. 





Shortcakes, 
Cornstarches, 
Light Steamed Puddings. 


9 


Cauliflower, Celery, 
Spinach, Carrots. 


Lettuce—Cheese—Nut. 
Apple—Celery—Nut. 


Custards. 
Pastry. 


fete ody pes i aki eae 
f hh fie “id be hal ad Vipridelshde dra WAT 
ss Me specter 


+ ¢/ 
(Adee 


peep e 


he HA in? 


ie Bo Gy 


TARRY OF 
ET ye 


{ ‘ 


m 


Ww Nel y 
SHOE i 























Ud sis 4 
-, | 
peaeian + 


4) , F ; 
, Le ee Lee 
TAs fie PAN 
t 3 , s 
f c } ae 


" 








Ask your grocer for Knox Gelatine—take no other 


Menu 10 


Clear Vegetable. 
Clear Tomato. 


Baked Beans, Nut Loaf, 
Croquettes. 


White Potatoes. 


Squash, Onions, 
Tomatoes, Cabbage. 


Cold Slaw, Cucumbers, 
Lettuce, Beet—Relish. 


Cornstarches, 
Stewed Fruits, 
Tapioca. 


Menu 11 


Vegetable. 
Brunswick Stew. 


Creamed Chipped Beef. 


Creamed Hggs with Cheese. 


White Potatoes. 


Cabbage, Squash, 
Onions, Spinach. 


Egg—Sardine, 
Tomato, Lettuce, 
Cold Slaw. 


Cornstarches, 
Short Cakes, 
Pastry. 





Menu 12 


Clear Tomato. 
Cream of Spinach. 
Cream of Celery. 


Beef Roast, 
Fillet, Flank, Rump. 


White Potatoes, Rice, 
Hominy, Parsnips. 


Cabbage, Tomatoes, 
Brussels Sprouts, Onions. 


Lettuce, Grapefruit, Orange, 
Cucumber, Olives. 


Fruit Ices, 
Gelatines, 
Fresh Fruits. 


Menu 13 


Cream of Potato. 
Cream of Corn. 
Cream of Oyster Plant. 


Beef, Pot Roast, 
Meat Loaf. 


Macaroni, Egg Plant, 
White Potatoes, Rice. 


Carrots, Turnips, 
Onions, Squash. 


Lettuce—Tomato, 
Cress, Cucumber, 
Radishes. 


Cornstarches, 
Rice Puddings. 
Short Cakes. 


Menu 14 


Cream of Asparagus. 
Cream of Carrot. 
Cream of Onion. 


Beefsteak, Porterhouse, 
Hamburg, Round. 


Sweet Potatoes, Corn, 
Parsnips. 


10 


145 


Asparagus, Tomatoes, 
Cauliflower, Peppers. 


Lettuce, Pimentos, 
Sardines, Radishes. 


Cornstarches, 
Short Cakes, 
Tapiocas. 


INDEX 


Bread and Rolls 


Page 
Boston Brown Bread_------- 49 
Diabetic bread 2 ap ae eee 51 
Invaldvitolistesroees ceca 135 
Lightning Bread Recipe- ---- 52 
Nut. Breads somee his were ee 51 
Relig ya ae eee 48 
Raisins Bread gee el Ui eee 50 
Raised Rolle sos ae 49 

Biscuits 
Baking Powder Biscuit___---- 134 
Beaten Biscuite os soe 48 
Buttermilk Biscuit seco 52 
Drop Powder Biscuit - - - — ~~ 50 
Good Biscuttiz: eae eee 48 
Sweet Potato Biscuit_______- 49 
Corn Breads 
Baked Corn or Soft Egg Bread 48 
CorniBread:s pee Lee a 50 
Corn Sticks 2 eae ee eee 50 
Corn or Johnny Cake____-__- 49 
Kentucky Spoon Bread____-- 51 
Southern Spoon Bread_-_-_-_- 51 
Southern Corn Bread_______ 50 
Beverages 
COSCON eae eee 129-130-132 
Chocolate Milk Shake_______ 133 
Chocolate Egg Milk Shake___ 131 
Chocolate Syrup ei ees 129 
Delicious’ Catleercs see uaer as 131 
Poriavles 5d SGC AS cau 129 
Prd Punch een oe 131 
Grape Fruit Punch_________ 130 
Invalidis) Teaver reee are 1382 
Demonddes esau a) ieee cae 131 
Lemon Syren 131 
Milk. Julep Slee a ie othe 129 
Orange Sparkles ae 130 
Pesch Punch) sens oscar ae 130 
Punch Hecipese. ere 131 
UME ss Vr eee ee oe oe 130 
Cakes 

Angel ‘Cake, (7 tue ups 65-66 
Angel Food Cakegoes. 3) 3 70 
Apple Sauce Cake__________ 58 


Page 
Brown Stone Front___.----- ave 
Cake Making #2: siete 54 
CramblesLarta eee fee a 67 
Cheap Calelun te ahve hone 57 
Oacos Cakes. sie 3504 59 
Cream. Cake. oeens ako 61-65 
Cocoanut Layer Cake___-__-- 68 
Chocolate Angel Cake___---_- 61 
Chocolate Cake_ -_.__.- 55-63-66 
Chocolate Layer Cake___-- 64-71 
Coffee Cake ites 0 aa 63 
Cottee Cakesusy i) Ueber ey 63 
Delishtiul Cakews ui 55 
Date-Nut)Loat 2 o22 5 eee se ae 
Devil’s Food Cake_-_--- 63-67-72 
Devil: Cakexti 2a) se ee 64 
Eipgless;Cakesis) Oe ane eee. 
Rruity Cake caucs eeee 56-69 
Favorite @Gakeusecg aaa. (2 
ih aie cee ee etal at 56-70 
Jelly Roll ts 7 ee 57 
Lady Baltimore Cake_-_-_-___- 55 
Lermon.Cakeei ie eee ee 71 
Maple Walnut Cake________ 59 
Molasses Cake________--- 61-69 
Marble Cakes sates 68-71 
One, Two, Three, Four Cake. 62 
Orange: Cake a Sey. ee ues 4—58 
Plain Cup Gate 2 oes 69 
Pound Cake (Virginia) ____-_- 54 
Pineapple: Cakew iis deen ewe 8 


5 
Plain Cake.4. 2) 64—65-66-67-70 
Queen’ 8 Cake lacey tee ee 62 

Sponge Cakell sso 56-64-69 
Simple Butter Cake_________ 62 


Spite Cakes ee Cusine 67 
Strawberry Shortcake-_ -__-__-__ 60° 
White Cakese2 5 a ee ee 58 
White Layer Cake_______- 59-60 
Cheese Dishes 
Baked Macaroni_______-_-- 45 
Cheese Omelet______-______- 45 
Cheese Balls) 2 eee 45 
Creole Spaghetti_____-_-___ 45 
Cheese Straws___..-_--_- 46-47 
Cheese Apples____._------- 46 
Cheese Soufflé___.__-_____ 46-47 
Homemade Spaghetti-_ - __--- 47 
Macaroni AuGratin_______-- 47 
Rictum Ditty (Rarebit) ____- 46 


INDEX 


Candy 

Page 
UESWE ALP O10 He! «Ine eee 125 
(rovmmeandye. A eels 12 
Chocolate Fudge___._.____- 120 
Chocolate Cocoanut Fudge._ 123 
Chocelate Drops... 2.222 _- 127 

Chocolate Marshmallow 
PENCE eames) oll ic 8 ah i222 
Cocoanut Divinity Candy___ 120 
Cocoanut Candy... 121-123-125 
foivinigy Pudge. 22. 121-125 
Pavinity Candy 2. io 126 
etrcious Candy 22. ob 252 122 
OO BERS OO aes ee ea 120 
Fondant for Centers_______- Dal 
1 SET OT ALY a aaa 126 
ORSEIMLVOMEL eh sie habe kai th 124 
Preneh Dainties: 2.02022. 127 
Heencm ream 00.) 2) 127 
Pirie eet i a 124 
Milk Chocolate Fudge---_-_-_- 122 
Pyiginsces slaty Ou! ia 126 
Martha Washington Candy__ 126 
LS Kod Eg Wa Te eS 120 
toner ee 124 
eraliviensiie woo wes Ne 121-122 
Peanut Brittle. ooo... 123-125 
Reanutrenuchetj. oo... 123 
Peppermmisa wes ee ee £25 
Peanut Butter Fudge- -_-_-___- 128 
BeantOAni oe mt. |.) 123-124 
murkishtijelehtsvon. S280 128 


Cookies and Doughnuts 


BO OKNCS Ue ee hk 74-78 
BU OU OI TNTILS mye peraty wll 15-77-78 
Doughnuts (Sour Milk) _____ Pit 
RAUCOUS ADS cc ta) cain 76 
INVerbread.. cote ele elles 78 
heritage er Liars aaa ete) 74 
Molasses Gingerbread___-____ 74 
Oatmeal Drop Cookies -___-__- 76 
Oatmeal Cookieseiit usta | 76 
Buea Cookies io! = ae NEw lh. 2 78 
mmpice Wakes. ae o reac sh rare 
Sot Cinger Dread = 24a e. 4 TO 
Oa: Ca k ers ye Bin iy ok 74-75-76 
NY ODCLerss ee Net eae eas 8 
Waliut Cakes) oy eu 74 
Kgg Dishes and Omelets 
Baked Eggs on Toast_--_-___- 16 
Cheese and Egg Dish_-_-_-__~- Le 


Coddled Hees wt eee sre 1D 
Deviled Egogn! 2 orgs ee 18 


Page 
Mag ineNest rye 135 
Escalloped Eggs___________- 105) 
Golden: Rod eg iii Ws Ce 17 
Hard: Boiled Higes oo i 17 
Orelete Wiaes bg Naan: 17-18-1338 
Resch Omeletaiicn ie ie hii 15 
Pink Pickled: Heese Wc sous 16 
Scrambled Wggs sos. une 15 
BUted Higgs. shih) yes eben 17 
omoato Omelet was, mas aon 16 

Fish and Oysters 
Baked: Higher sol) 2 ae 12 
paked Shadi oie suis 12-13 
Baked Halibutea ie aw re 14 
Codabish: Cakes naan ein iess 14 
ried: Oyeterscit shy ee 11 
Hollenden Halibut_________- 14 
OR CUT yee tan ores Bonn GUE CEN RN 12 
CV SCEIR OLE Ws hes see nun 11 
Oyster Dressing____________ 11 
Ovecery Pies ey uals tle ene s 1 
Salmon Croquettes _ _____- 11-13 
malmoneCakeseg (0. 0 Yop eo. 12 
Scalloped Oysters... .21-..- ed. 
SHC e Wee Ne oy a Meas 13 

Household Hints 

Baking by Temperature _--_- 140 


Household Hints 
136-137-138-139-140-141-142 
IVE eritiete Serre ty te ne ot Se 143 


Table of Measures_________-_ 141 
Time for Cooking Vegetables. 137 
Time for Cooking Meats._.__. 136 
Ices and Ice Cream 
Hrozemelpitiee soy gee epee ner eee 104 
Hrowsher betaewce sce 106-107 
Lemon Water Ice_____-__-_- 105 
IN UGRE FAD DOOM. lac ci Vetere 106 
Orange leew Moat) ore es 104 
One Gallon of Ice Cream__._ 105 
Pineapple Sherbet -_ _ __-_- 104-106 
Philadelphia Vanilla Ice 
jot 1 6d Wpiepe QaMle sap ievedee back Ets bi (5 105 
Strawberry Frappé--------- 107 
Vanilla Ice Cream ___-_-_- 104-106 
VWViSberU Gee namie dante Mente ware) 105 
Icings and Fillings 
Bouled Frostings... 2 eee 
Chocolate Teme os 2 te 67-71-72 
Cocoanut. Hillingoe 2 ss 68 


147 


INDEX 


Icings and Fillings—Continued 


Page 
Cream Cake Filling. __-_--- 65-71 
Caramel! Hilling seri ven 69 
Rulings os eo eee ee ee 67-72 
Fudge Millings ys seen, 66 
Foundation) Pillingses tease. 56 
Pera ge VA eee) aa 55-60-61—62 
Icing for Cocoanut Cake__.. 71 
Lemon Filling Saris 70-71 
Mocha Filling and Icing__--_- 68 
Marshmallow Filling. _-____-_- 60 
Orange Filling sie oes 60 
Pineapple Filling. __________ 58 
Raisin Cream Icing________- 60 
Sea Foam (eine: oa cee 62 
Sea Foam) Filling )o 5 oe es 70 
Menus 

Perfectly Balanced 

Menus) 2eecuc gus 143-144-145 


Muffins and Waffles 


Butter Cakes: Cure tana. os 82 
Corn Meal Muffins. ________ 79 
Creany Mutins ie ie 80 
DropsDutaplings eee ae 81 
Griddle Cakes kien aay 80 
Invahde-Muthins i: 2940 co) 132 
DVGuti ps ee ree eee yee 79-80-81 
Pop-Overs iat on sala ron 48 
HiceVivthinees te tou ee 80 
pally sain inewenceserne 2 paar 81-82 
AW sud T ees See ee Yh ce OW 79-80-8 1-82 
Poultry and Meats 
Bewitched Veal______._____ 20 
Beet: Toate ei ee 19 
Béetsteski a) Pie ee Ob Dee 20 
Broiled (Steak: a) wogeca menu: Pasi 
BakedsHenucm oe wh eon 22 
COGUGL DOS ii Maret eee Jame 21 
Chicken Rioastic Wao es wees 22 
Chicken: Pigsiee rane as 23 
Chicken Croquettes_________ 23 
Creamed Chicken__________ 26 
Creamed Ham ue en evi 24 
Dried Beis te jaieera te ir 23 
Bried Chickencieenes wie ae 
Pricdslrog a legs, eee a ne 25 
Hungarian Goulash________-_ 22 
Left Over Beettare se 00a 23 
Meat Liaati cy ae Ry ae 19-20 
Mes: Birds pie ay pak 26 
Potehoagtives tee ues pe ae 20-25 


Page 
PorktRosstouc ne) eee 21 
Pork Chops? sss 1a Seen a 
Pork Sausage! soo eae 24 
Pork Corn-Meal Mush-_-___-- 26 
Roast abbots Gel aw eens 20 
Roast), burke yrenver tonnes 26 
Roast Belvo yee ee 21 
Round Steaks Roast 2202. o. 24 
Second Missouri. so 5.226 4o. 24 
Stuffing (Chestnut) -_-_----- 25 
Siuling (Oyster) sane onus as 1 
Smothered Chicken_____-_--- 25 
Toadhin-a-Holew. 27 us Sa 24 
Pies and Pie Crusts 
Apple:Pieksi i Py eee 88-89 
Buttermilk Custarduces 22s 83 
Brown Sugar Custard_-_--__- 90 
Buttermilk Pies ee 92 
Chessi@tstarder veo acess 85 
Cream Piet ces ie tee 88 
CoOCHanUtee lest igen ease 88-89 
Chocolate Cream Pie_-_---_-_- 90 
Chocolate and Blackberry 
ste rol enn ce ks eee Merges 90 
Chocolate Pieces Vira tae 92 
Crista 2 ae rere aah es 90-91 
Delicious: Pie? <--ee ee 90 
Eight-Minute Meringue - __-_- 91 
Lemon’ GCustardzaa see 83-88 
Lemon Gream:Pie2_ 22. 86 
Lemon Pie?" sn eee 87-91 
Molisses' Pierre nae te 85 
Meringue ogee free oe 85-89 
Molasses Custard_-_._._._--- 91 
Orange Pie Fillings. ___.__~- 89 
Plain Pasteyc eet ue aie eae 83 
Pie Crust 2c oe oar 83-85 
Pie: Pastais ata ae Se eee 85 
Pineapple Pieluwees aaa 85-86 


Pineapple Meringue Pie___ 87-89 


Raisin Pis- 2 ee 86-92 
Sweet Potato Custard____- 83-91 
Preserves 
Fruit, Butters eae ee eee 111 
Ginger Pearut> 2. eee 110 
Lemon’ Butter 22 109 
Orange and Pear Marmalade. 108 
Orange Marmalade- __-_- 109-110 
Preserved Figs___._._..---- 108 

Pineapple and Strawberry 

Preserve) 4.0 sae 108 
Preserved Citron or Water- 

melon Rind]. 109 


INDEX 


Page 
PeRere ly aes nein Wawa dye 110 
PACMIGOP CATS ee Mee 111 
Pineapple and Pear Marma- 

PRELOMEn ete et I hg to 111 
merawbperry Jamo. ie ok. 109 
Strawberry Preserve_-_-___-__- 109 
Sweet Pickle Peaches or Pears 109 
Sweet Pickle Peaches__-__-_-_ 110 
Swmorirbickles oe ye 110 
Watermelon Rind Pickle____ 108 

Pickles 
Chow Chow. .._ 2. 112-113-115 
Cucumber, Pickles: 02200. 112 
PMI SAUCE ees re 114 
Green Tomato Catsup-_--_--_- 113 
Green Tomato Mince Meat__ 114 
Piendaeicklesue ts! Hockh 114 
NMiustardericklen. oo) oY 1 
fepperrissh woul 112 
Pep porRelisnove hs 113 
Pickled Cucumber Rings___. 115 
JG) CH I a De? ES 113 
Diniversal Pickers es. i608: L4 
Puddings 
PDple PlOAt.. sales. oi 132-134 
PPO oO Wau eras i 133 
Apple Sponge...____.._._.- 101 


Apple Dumplings___________ 99 


IDAKeOLA DDG: omit Ii a 133 
Brown, betty. ioc. oo) 3 93-1382 
Bahan, Pudding 2... 97 
moiled Custard’. iL Se 102 
Cottage Pudding. ._.....__- 99 
Chocolate Custard... 2.2 - 102 
Wocoanit Creamy foc) 250) 102 
Chocolate Plum Pudding____ 103 
Ura pererulte ellyiccey eeeue 135 
STabstii PUCdING. 2 Mk woh 99 
Lemon Sponge or Snow 
A SAUCo ernst gee pow publ) py Ck 93 
Orange Pudding yo wae sk 98 
Pruner W iipaeus oe oe 93-134 
' Persimmon Pudding__---_-_--- 97 
Peachr Polly ie ea nee 103 
ice Puddin gee aes ee 98 
Spanish Creamucwuewee een 93 
Wevy, Pudding aia te yee a re 97 
Wistel: PU CIN GEE wiems ceonme 98 
Recipes for the Sick 
Apple Moats WU ees 132-134 
A DDIEISNO We Lec tans eeu 133 


149 


Page 
USFO WE EC Uy LU iN Uc oe mina an 132 
Baked VAD ples ve sy eee Wate 
Baking Powder Biscuit______ 134 
Beatie ea, OM UN Co bis its tN i 135 
IDeGR ICL 24 Vitel ayy na 133 
Chocolate Milk Shake______- 133 
BiceiOmelety ee wien hey sii 133 
Boesin-Nesty jug Ve 135 
Grape Kru Jelly uu any 135 
Hot Cocoa or Chocolate_---- 132 
Tnvalic’s, Rolle Wales iwi cmaly 135 
invelia’s Mufins 2 eu oaos 132 
valid’ se Tedaee il Nowe. es 132 
RPULELIC EG) My bee ee OL NU et neue ay 134 
Oatmeal Grueljaues gauss 134 
PRU Od VV ID We) bees ay a Ue ee 134 
stiited Primes 2 Ve av oes 133 

Salads 

Asparagus Salads! 2200 22% 5 34 
Apple and Raisin Salad - - - - 43 
Bird's Nest salad cot Lit aks 34 
Banana salad ey) gee ww 35 
Chicken Saladdiow clus hh 35-39 
Diesen ope Eee ROMY a Nat SRN A Ala 40 
HLL baa. lace eo we 34-35-37-38 
Grape Fruit and Orange Salad 40 
PPA A Oa lac wee aon oa 42 
Moulded Fruit Salad___-___— 42 
Orange Pecan Salad _-- ----- 36 
Orange and Cheese Salad____ 48 
Pineapple Salad____-..----- 34 
Pobatoloaladss neue ae 37-38-39 
LEY ATID cbs gh eel ME Pe pag ahe 36 
Salmon and Pea Salad _- - - -- 40 
Salmanyedisch yews h Gent ye 41 
Surprise Egg Salad _-_------- 40 
Stuffed Celery Sticks_-_-_---- 41 
String Bean Salad___--_---- 43 


String Bean and Cheese Salad 43 
Salads to Serve with Light 
1 (C7 = nae a aa 2 
Salads to Serve with Heavy 
IV CATS ai he VO a ete 142 
Salads to Serve with Fish__.__ 142 
Salad to Serve as Refreshment 142 


Substantial Salad_______---- 142 

una Fish Saladeows sje e pale 40 

Waldorisaladse: 200) (Narn 41 
Salad Dressings 

Boiled Salad Dressing_---_- 34-42 

Cold Slaw Dressing__-------- 35 


INDEX 


Salad Dressings—Continued 


Page 
Cream Dressing 2G), 0052 2 36 
Fruit Salad Dressing, No. 1.. 37 
EHrench (Dressing 722 eee 42 
Mayonnaise... 21 36-37 
Pineapple Dressing- ___-__-_- 36 
Russian Salad Dressing_____- 41 
Salad S05 Yee: wee 35-38-42 
Sauces 
Brown Sauce ah ses ee 101 
Cranberry Sauce________ 98-101 
Cheese Sauces te) Oo Fie 102 
Caramel Sauces epee ee 99 
Chocolate Sauce. 2 nay ee 105 
Hard Sauces ite ss see aoe 103 
Hot Fudge Chocolate Sauce. 105 
Icing: for7Pudding -2..u. ae 97 
Mint Salicelleuy cee anaes 101 
Milk Sauces oye uci pie ious 101 
Sauce for Pudding________ 97-98 
Sauce for Suet Pudding. ____ 97 
Tomato Sauce eae pee ee 100 
White Satcesfui ie rt 100 
Sandwiches 
Bean Maxtures ae oi wees 118 
Cheese and Nut________ 116-118 
Club Sandwich 3 Sy 117 
Chicken Mixture___________ 119 
Cheesechaliin gue an i) a ae aan 118 
Bee Voxvarem wat ae 117 
Egg Sandwich__________ 118-119 
Harm Mixtures 220 Vor wen 117 
Peanut Butterdane cae 116 
pandwiches. 017 pia 118-119 
Sandwich Fillings__.________ 119 
pardine and Hes) eo au sie us 118 
Sardine Mixture____________ 119 
Sandwiches to Serve with 
Salads ts oan yay aes 142 
Tomato Mixtures___________ 116 


150 


Soups 

Page 
BronswiekiStewss 225. ee 7-9 
Chicken *‘Soupuek woes 8 
Chuck Beehistew.u eee cea 9 
Trish Stew wis: 2 ee eee 9 
Quick Potato Soup ey sow sae i 
Dtew beclacis win mean oe 9 
Soup UNoodies. tt bs aa ee 8 
Vesetable Soups 2. a seque ee i738 

Vegetables 

Asparagiis2 (0s) att) ae ene 29 
Asparagus on Toast____-___- 29 
Boston Baked Beans________ 29 
Baked*Potatoess cee eee ol 
Boiled: Corn2 2 eee 30 
Botled@Rice Ata 33 
Beéte ast Wale ee ee eae Ve 
Cooking Vegetables_________ 136 
Corn; Puddings ae 30-31 
Creamed Irish Potatoes_ ____ ot 
Cold Slawas O02 aay Waa ae oe 
Cabbage. 22 x0 hres ane ening 32 
Candied Sweet Potatoes_____ 33 
Carrote. 1 lc beeen 32 
Escalloped Sweet Potatoes... 31 
Egg Plantae ae eee ene 32 
Fried Irish Potatoes________ 30 
Hot! Rlaiw ii Aves eae hans 28 
Hash in Green Peppers-__.-__- 32 
Irish Potatoes with Roast____ 28 
Trish  Potatoes#a7 3 ae ee oo 
Lima Beans {2G aes 29 
Macaroni stews see ee 30 
Potato ‘Pat {ee ieee aes 29 
Potato, Chins) 4(ite als mare aden 30 
Pegg s 2) Vie Shii es 066 Ua a 32 
Seqiiseh 220 hee a ae ae 28 
Stuffed Potatoesa41.0 | ae 28 
Sweet Potato Croquettes._.__ 30 
Stuffed Tomatoes: veuseuoe 31 
Stewed Tomatoes___________ 33 
Tomato’ Losst.2 eee eee 28 





ant 


ie ai ee ee) ee 


ene | \ 


aie 


se an: 





ae . ba Raat 
; & geet A 
ae eg 
ad 
# 
,: 





(ler ‘Ford k jecedel the world a ao 
in value and sales _ s 


More than nine million 
have been sold “ee 


© Ger Yours from : 


The Ford Place 


Let us Furnish your Home | 2 
“on easy payments. oS 
222 


art & Boneak 
F urniture Co. 


127 Fayctavillc Street ove 
128 S. Wilmington Str a 


Telephone 266 fs 


| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
for | i Rawls Motor Co. { oe 
8 
| 
| 
. 
| 
ey 
ie 
[ 
[ 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 
| 





if ir 


ea Ar) ae ‘ 
a pa in y 
{ pie hf Pap Nie Pa 


Paniwein 
| ‘ iy 
i Teal 


Min 





wie y - 
Wile il) Pi By 


AP cs 
as 


a I 


5 ry ad | 
7 : qi Rag z 





ee, Sear ees ate TEC : 
Sa eae ee 2 So ue ei 
pea ree ue wee 


SRF SS 
Site ae oe eee 
Sai Seas es fg on Secale spe Sa ca Ie ari 
Sir ee a UN Ry ee Se 
SA a et Bs tai ee ee 3 - 
Se a a a = 3 ie ne : St wet 3 aye aoe re 95 pr reened ea RAR nt Se Sea oc Ae 
ae feared Sed SIR AE AE tae FeO IA to s ae Me ede x3 en i rh 2 3 ‘ Rats wertig’s Fi bagnsig eis eas ; ae Spline ie Tt ie Sellen 
A Geel fo eae Tole poeta Ht Sy i hohe a ee Doles ee er oe artes: eee ore Fase ete etme ne i wry mngtensaha *y ec Set VAL Hem he 
Ses Fanatics Ee haed Py se ¢ Sey bey Mrveieageee : x 5 P ‘ ! a oA é 4 PE Tee ; = : 


Mum Ay SN 


ie Ite at 


PSEA aa 
et ih oh si emt ae tad js s oe 
deine ACTOS Lindh CAREY RPC BE enter entire ee 
el Se Ry = IE ENR OS Ses Sos a Rees y eed Nabi ctaretastas in Tae Nes aa = : == 
Pie aS awed dae a Le a rn a eat ae Fy ONL iy foe aes GF olay 059 : pS red Aten 

i eh tai eae edie Saas ack 2 2 Ee sk lg cai Reine Regs ian US rent, = EE 


Free Sy ewes 


SARE A oa 2 SIPS MM, RUM Rg eee So 
es ai See itkeon ieee 


st fegiath ys f re am OLE A EEN ey AION gk A A Se, Bm ee ~ 
, aia valle oe aL oer ne are ie ek eit ee Se, SESS ii ie ee as oa i . Pn ee ae Bom, 
= Cae a eet ee ih ATs IE ct le Se Ree DN ea I ch os aed aE st Ste oe oe ee oe ae oe 
Death et TAS RTT Dh ATL IS A eg ech tet To sislooae He AA AE GSI HAE IE Te — : 
rea a eee ard ate FFT I AP EA A Ge le eae AE TEE EE : : ees 
aS a al a a was : cal Sg SS sy, Spm eu aes wits ~ = . “ . we - ‘ 2s yi Psa ae % Pues < ; SUSI SE See hn Pury AAeers 
Ms sh é a ae, : / me Aah ecient ah ae aS See ET YS 8 A A te el my ae . SESS Sse Or Re a 
; sie eT SIL ER Rig NAL iy ae SE IN My Nye GUM SE ayes ALR aye Resin aap ne ay Sn a Leer 4 Scag quand oEi 
: a Ete Re Ue aad eas ehh oes a eT eer ‘ — ea ie Dyrdtardrisdine deguageane 
RN Ae et Lt ESR TIA eGR at Sa a se, SI SE EU nL RR : ; 2 : 
SEALE RS Tell AD IAL ea RIES i aa be aioe ari PTE ie oh ook orn ee ae es ee ERS UR Ete yd a Re Ea arg aga ey ty, np EOP baa 
a : ; ep Ne Ree ate et een Ao eB hag hae oe he ee EE Ga SI a Oe sees ps RE - -ii-abeihin esate acl pMatiath. cia casein Se am anos anh sence 
een et PE ARP AEA RS Me ES sree sictes eis The Adie hae as Ba ea ome es ee ee pak-eseane Rieti moma t oe ieee Spe ea Sidhu een Se aa ee ee Let a cE hh 
isiere iets i : EI I A I CLR RR IEEE AR AER EA EI Ba Pe EE a Sou USES By Seno Qe et tag ye Sho ES SE ERIE EH bg on ed ag Ge yee 
exis ESA RR BRET LR SEE RSE ES OEE EI QE AiR LIP RARE BEA LE SRI SEI ytd Babe By ig Se PAST SEERA LS A yy Pea tea on arti Gee AAA Aig eienl EEG 
> tetas REVOLT hy Aa ea RAS, BE A eg USER ess SU Sel ea Pe Ra ig Se a a Sy aE se Syne ae ha, Ste ee Ae nfl, TEPESG, 7 
ie ae Ne a al Sa SSS SS eS NS i id rm BRE Pen LEA Oe ee ert EQ AN led Ey pease wae 
mee EEE HOR ST St lig ne EL A GS OEE ER A Teal Ay al RLS he bay SEE, ALE es a 
: zs RE SS ARAL ES RO SE ee es a EL LH he CRON GME ya EY RG aE oe SEL HL 
RE ei Sig ARE EIR RO EE SSB a a ER el ON ee i G8 Sed Se SR wel gL LO TUE gS 
BSE SEP Bi) HS Sol RAR ET A aR OS PE Ss ore) ER A ea NES II OEE EE ASH) 


et Ses PERN SR SEARS RE Og BG BGS Cand Be SE rs Sd Sa Ge 
x a HS gts Sig UAL RH RY PCI mg Ss PPO SAR Hh ws Sh IS OS ao : 
SR SE A I SEAS RE SH ER NALS Chg me SI A Ek LS SL 
EES SS PROSE Ay Oe Roe SE = 

ee athe ary : v ‘ 5 ’ STE LE EE ET SES CUR UR MLN FH Na he Sy ym Saye AL mee, | GEAR Sega = 

ie 5 Sires safe Rio ? Radic esichnciie ets fa ee FEE Pet aN z a Basi tas ‘Fs = maui RSE a hee SSE = : SNS SEES ENE EEA ESAS BOR Ol Ca FEM ESN a a 

* uso - Ee eenicinanion ss ay 2 2 eeateetse Pets ‘ Seay sGscansrsicaanG. 5 Libs cuzin, LuRee re BS Ee She tis HEN : ES SEAS a Lae Es NE ONL RUS Omg, MH gy: 
gee Re OAS i anon fj : : SAS eek nie ee Fe igh ie he ae an as mae Pai nat be ad By cae SE an RSS PERO wa wy) A Si sede Sew TAREE eee. 
iE SL Ss NG Sm rn AR A Sig Srl t fa i S else! siete = ae ; Fras A satel . sys ¥ Er 3 s ayede - rn us AES SESS: SE Ce FN IL on sie 
Decl Gi tink oD ila SMC ip : 4 = Suara E is Crepe eres ea os 4 . - SES ee SA EARNS AR Si s a2 2 SAE IN NREL aH SH SET, 
: ea NSTC MES : om Petipa aes = za ° ee ime Se ae Sapa a : Baton : “ ; > SS RATES PRAT ESS SN RNAS a RES, SL GH 





