CHAFIMO  DI5H 
POSSIBILITIES... 


FANNIE  *  A\ERRITT-  FARnER 

AUTHOR.  OP 
•the- BOSTON- COOKING  SCHOOL' COOK-BOOK* 


CHAFING  DISH  POSSIBILITIES 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 


BY 


FANNIE    MERRITT    FARMER 

Principal  of  the  Boston  Cooking  School 

AND   AUTHOR   OF 

"the  boston  cooking  school  cook  book** 


They  eat,  they  drink,  and  in  communion  sweet 
•  Quaff  immortality  and  joy 

Milton 


BOSTON  COLLEGE  llBRAJFit 

CHKbTNUT  mtL.  MAfeS, 


BOSTON 
LITTLE,  BROWN,  AND   COMPANY 

1914 


/ 


Copyrighty  1898, 
By  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer. 


All  rights  reserved* 


S.  J,  Parkhili,  a  Co..  J^osToif,  U,  S,  A. 


STo  tfje  iIHetn0t2  of 
CARRIE   M.  DEARBORN 

MY   DEVOTED  FRIEND  AND   EARNEST  CO-WORKER, 

THIS  BOOK  IS  LOVINGLY  DEDICATED 

BY  THE  AUTHOR 


Blest  he  the  spot,  where  cheerful  guests  retire^ 
To  pause  from  toil,  and  trim  their  evening  fire ; 
Blest  that  abode^  where  want  and  pain  repair. 
And  every  stranger  finds  a  ready  chair; 
Blest  be  those  feasts  with  simple  plenty  crown'd. 
Where  all  the  ruddy  family  around 
Laugh  at  the  jests  of  pranks  that  never  fail, 
Or  sigh  with  pity  at  some  mournful  tale. 
Or  press  the  bashful  stranger  to  his  food, 
And  learn  the  luxury  of  doing  good  I 


Goldsmith 


We  may  live  without  poetry^  music ^  and  art; 

We  may  live  without  conscience^  and  live  without  heart; 

We  may  live  without  friends^  we  may  live  without  books; 

But  civilized  ma7t  cannot  live  without  cooks. 

He  may  live  without  books,  —  what  is  knowledge  but 

grieving  ? 
He  may  live  without  hope,  —  what  is  hope  but  deceiving  ? 
He  may  live  without  love^  —  what  is  passion  but  pining  f 
But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  dining? 

Owen  Meredith 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


Chapter  Pagb 

I.  Glimpses  of  Chafing  Dishes  in  the 

Past ii 

II.   Chafing  Dish  Suggestions     ....  17 

III.  Toast,  Griddle  Cakes,  and  Fritters  25 

IV.  Eggs 31 

V.  Oysters 43 

VI.  Lobsters 53 

VII.  Some  Other  Shell-Fish 61 

VIII.   Fish  R6chauff6s 69 

IX.   Beef ys 

X.  Lamb  and  Mutton 83 

XI.   Chicken      .     .    • 89 

XII.   Sweetbreads 97 

XIII.  With  the  Epicure 103 

XIV.  Vegetables 117 

XV.   Cheese  Dishes 129 

XVI.  Relishes  and  Sweets 135 

XVII.   Candies 143 

INDEX 151 


GLIMPSES   OF   CHAFING  DISHES 
IN   THE   PAST 


II 


And  qf tin  a  ntrospect  Mights  the^  mind 

Dants 


M 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

I 

GLIMPSES   OF  CHAFING  DISHES  IN 
THE    PAST 

There  seems  to  exist  in  the  minds  of  many 
the  wholly  to  be  contradicted  notion  that  the 
chafing  dish  is  a  utensil  of  modern  invention. 
Although  its  origin  is  enveloped  in  darkness, 
"  looking  backward  o'er  the  ages "  many  allu- 
sions are  made  to  its  use. 

Imagine,  if  you  can,  the  Israelites,  those  dwell- 
ers in  tents,  feasting  upon  the  locusts  of  Egypt 
and  Palestine  cooked  in  a  utensil  corresponding 
in  many  particulars  to  the  chafing  dish  of  the 
present  day. 

Among  the  ruins  of  Pompeii  have  been  found 
bronze  chafing  dishes  of  unique  designs  and  care- 
ful workmanship,  which  give  undisputed  proof 
of  their  use  in  this  city,  which  contained  the 
villas  of  many  wealthy  Romans.  What  a  rich 
store  of  knowledge  concerning  Roman  home 
life  has  been  gained  from  these  excavations  I 

13 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Mommsen,  in  his  "Romische  Geschichte," 
refers  to  the  lavish  display  at  the  tables  of  the 
Romans,  and  affirms  that  expense  was  never 
considered  in  their  hospitality.  In  those  days, 
he  asserts,  "A  well-wrought  bronze  cooking 
machine  came  to  cost  more  than  an  estate." 
What  a  trifling  difference  between  these  and 
our  modern  chafing  dishes ! 

The  history  of  France,  that  land  to  which  we 
ever  look  for  gastronomic  delights,  furnishes 
many  an  illustration  of  the  high  esteem  in 
which  chafing  dishes  have  been  held  by  many 
of  the  mightiest  of  their  land. 

Louis  XV.,  according  to  Goncourt,  took 
much  delight  in  cooking,  and  often  amused 
himself  *^  by  making  quintessential  stews  in  sil- 
ver pans."  The  palate  of  Louis  XVL  was  often 
tickled  by  *'  piping  hot  dishes,  brought  in  on  a 
chafing  dish." 

Napoleon  Bonaparte,  when  laying  down  the 
affairs  of  war  and  enjoying  for  a  short  period 
the  joys  of  home  life,  has  cooked,  —  as  Baron 
Meneval  writes, —  in  a  silver  chafing  dish,  an 
omelet  for  the  enjoyment  of  the  empress  and 
himself. 

Madame  R6camier,  the  beautiful  and  intel- 
lectual society  leader,  whose  salon  was  always 
filled  with  a  brilliant  circle,  entertained  by  the 

14 


Chafing  Dishes  in  the  Past 

use  of  a  chafing  dish ;  and  many  an  historic 
speech  has  been  made  during  the  preparation 
of  some  viand  fit  for  the  gods. 

Madame  de  Stael,  **  the  greatest  woman  in 
literary  history,"  when  exiled  by  Napoleon 
Bonaparte  from  her  beloved  France,  took  with 
her,  among  household  treasures,  the  chafing 
dish  which  played  a  not  unimportant  part  in 
her  Paris  entertainments. 

Glancing  at  the  lives  of  some  of  England's 
greatest  literary  men,  it  is  found  that  a  faithful 
history  of  the  London  clubs  to  which  they 
belonged,  reveals  the  history  of  their  manners 
and  their  ways.  From  the  time  that  Sir  Walter 
Raleigh  founded  the  **  Mermaid ''  to  the  days 
of  the  famous  *'  Literary  Club,*'  chafing  dishes 
have  appeared  more  or  less  conspicuously  on 
the  tables  of  those  giants  of  old,  where  — 

"Mingled  with  the  friendly  bowl, 
The  feast  of  reason  and  the  flow  of  soul." 

'*  I  regard  the  discovery  of  a  new  dish  as  a 
far  more  interesting  event  than  the  discovery 
of  a  star;  for  we  have  always  stars  enough,  but 
we  can  never  have  too  many  dishes.*'  If  there 
are  still  those  of  this  same  opinion,  with  a  chaf- 
ing dish  for  a  companion,  cannot  they  work 
their  way  to  fame  ? 

IS 


CHAFING  DISH  SUGGESTIONS 


He  who  receives  friends  without  himself  bestowing 

some  pains  upon  the  repast  prepared  for  them^  does  not 

deserve  to  have  friends 

Brill  A  t-Sa  varin 


l8 


II 

CHAFING   DISH   SUGGESTIONS 

The  chafing  dish  of  to-day  has  accompHshed 
much  as  a  civilizer,  seeming  to  rekindle  the 
flames  of  hospitality  and  to  elevate  the  stand- 
ard of  cookery.  Who  can  doubt  its  permanent 
stay! 

The  bachelor  feels  himself  proud  to  be  called 
the  pioneer  in  the  use  of  this  utensil.  All  must 
agree  that  epicureanism  belongs  to  the  lords  of 
creation,  and  many  an  one  has  made  himself 
quite  famous  by  compounding  some  dish  for 
**  those  palates  who  must  have  inventions  to 
delight  the  taste." 

The  broader  and  more  valuable  use  of  the 
chafing  dish  has  asserted  itself,  and  now  it  is 
found  in  the  well-conducted  home,  where  its 
appearance  at  the  breakfast  table  means  the 
cooking  of  eggs  to  perfection;  at  the  lunch 
table,  the  savory  rechauffe.  The  chafing  dish 
should  not  find  a  place  on  the  table  when  a 
ceremonial  dinner  is  served  ;  but  in  the  house- 
hold where  but  one  maid  is  kept,  the  Thursday 
night  meal  is  often  anticipated  on  account  of 

19 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

its  use.  When  the  eye  of  the  convalescent 
brightens  and  his  appetite  is  stimulated  by  a 
choice  tidbit  prepared  on  the  chafing  dish,  then 
its  value  is  most  appreciated,  and  it  is  consid- 
ered among  the  indispensables.  All  in  all,  the 
chafing  dish  is  most  happily  in  evidence  when 
congenial  spirits  meet  to  make  glad  after  **  the 
lamps  are  lit,**  and  **  small  cheer  and  great  wel- 
come make  a  merry  feast** 

So  many  and  varied  are  the  styles  of  chafing 
dishes,  one  must  be  governed  by  his  taste  and 
the  extent  of  his  purse  strings  in  making  a 
selection.  Comparatively  few  can  enjoy  the 
luxury  of  a  silver  or  silver-plated  dish,  so  the 
choice  lies  between  agate  ware,  nickel-plated, 
copper,  or  brass  ones.  The  last  two  kinds  men- 
tioned are  not  recommended,  as  much  time 
needs  be  expended  to  keep  them  brightly  pol- 
ished. If  a  moderate-priced  dish  is  desired, 
preference  is  shown  for  the  nickel-plated.  Nickel- 
plated  dishes  are  very  attractive  and  may  be 
easily  kept  clean  and  bright  by  washing  in  hot, 
soapy  water,  wiping  dry  with  a  soft  towel,  and 
rubbing  with  a  piece  of  chamois  skin  or  cotton 
flannel. 

The  lower  pan  of  the  late  chafing  dish  (known 
as  the  hot-water  pan  or  bath)  is  supplied  with 
two  handles,  which  prove  of  great  advantage 

20 


Chafing  Dish  Suggestions 

in  moving  the  pan  when  heated.  An  accident 
from  burning,  in  the  household  of  a  manufac- 
turer, suggested  this  valuable  addition  of  handles, 
and  also  the  addition  of  a  tray  on  which  to 
place  this  pan. 

The  upper  pan,  familiarly  called  the  blazer, 
is  furnished  with  a  long  wooden  handle,  and  is 
more  often  used  alone  than  with  the  hot-water 
pan.  The  hot-water  pan,  however,  plays  a  ne- 
cessary part,  when  the  dish  to  be  prepared  con- 
tains eggs,  or  eggs  and  milk  in  combination, 
which  should  always  be  cooked  at  a  low  tem- 
perature. It  is  also  of  use  to  keep  the  viand 
hot,  without  further  cooking,  that  a  second  serve 
may  be  as  satisfactory  as  the  first.  The  flame  of 
the  lamp  should  always  be  extinguished,  as  soon 
as  the  cooking  is  accomplished. 

A  circular  chafing  dish  is  supplied  with  one 
lamp,  the  wick  of  which  is  asbestos,  covered 
with  a  fine  wire  netting.  The  flame  is  regu- 
lated by  metal  sHdes,  which  are  controlled  by 
an  adjustable  screw.  The  average  lamp  holds 
about  one  gill  of  alcohol,  and  will  burn  about 
one  and  one-half  hours.  Oval  chafing  dishes, 
which  are  not  commonly  used,  are  supplied  with 
two  or  three  lamps,  the  wicks  of  which  are  cotton 
lamp-wicking.  The  flame  is  regulated  by  turning 
the  wicks  by  means  of  an  adjustable  screw. 

21 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

The  best  grade  of  alcohol,  known  as  high 
proof  spirits,  is  recommended  for  chafing  dish 
use.  It  gives  more  heat,  burns  without  an  odor, 
and  proves  less  expensive  than  an  inferior  qual- 
ity. It  is  taken  for  granted  that  alcohol  is  to 
furnish  the  fuel,  for  the  days  of  live  coals  and 
oil  have  passed  away,  and  the  days  of  gas  and 
electricity  are  not  yet  at  hand  for  those  of  mod- 
erate means. 

With  a  chafing  dish  outfit,  an  ambition  natu- 
rally arises  to  collect  pretty  bowls  and  odd 
pitchers  of  various  sizes,  dainty  jars  and  covered 
dishes  to  hold  seasonings  and  condiments,  and 
other  unique  choice  pieces  of  china  that  may 
prove  useful. 

The  glass  or  granite  ware  measuring  cups, 
divided  into  thirds  and  quarters,  are  absolutely 
necessary,  as  are  tea  and  table  spoons  for  meas- 
uring. Let  it  be  remembered  that  level  meas- 
urements are  called  for  in  the  recipes  con- 
tained in  the  following  chapters  of  this  little 
book.  It  must  never  be  forgotten  that  accurate 
measurements  are  essential  for  good  results. 
*' Trifles  make  perfection,  but  perfection  is  no 
Irifle." 

As  chafing  dish  cookery  should  be  done  as 
noiselessly  as  possible,  a  long-handled  wooden 
spoon  proves  a  desirable  utensil  during  the  prep- 

22 


Chafing  Dish  Suggestions 

aration  of  the  dish ;  while  the  large  spoon  with 
ebony  handle  may  be  reserved  for  the  serving. 

The  chafing  dish  should  be  placed  on  a  metal 
tray,  previous  to  the  filling  of  the  lamp,  thus 
avoiding  all  danger  of  accident  after  lighting, 
should  a  draft  of  air  or  the  expansion  of  the 
heated  fuel  cause  the  flame  to  spread  outward 
and  downward.  This  tray  also  serves  as  a  pro- 
tection for  the  table,  and  admits  of  an  easy 
removal  of  the  dish  when  desired. 

He  who  most  carefully  anticipates  the  pleas- 
ure of  his  family  or  guests  has  much  pre- 
paratory work  done.  As  far  as  possible  the 
ingredients  should  be  measured  and  mixed  be- 
fore the  assembly  of  the  party,  and  it  is  well  if 
they  be  placed  on  the  table  or  tray  by  the 
hands  of  the  one  who  is  to  do  the  cooking,  that 
"  he  may  laugh  as  the  play  goes  on.'* 

Accept  as  a  final  suggestion  the  plan  of  meas- 
uring butter  by  tablespoons  and  making  into 
balls  by  the  use  of  butter  hands.  These  balls 
will  keep  in  good  shape  if  allowed  to  remain 
in  a  cold  place  until  needed. 


»3 


TOAST,  GRIDDLE  CAKES,  AND 
FRITTERS 


He  that  will  have  a  cake  out  of  wheats  must  needs 
tarry  at  the  grinding 

Shakespeare 


96 


Ill 

TOAST,  GRIDDLE  CAKES,  AND  FRITTERS 

Milk  Toast 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  and 
one-half  tablespoons  flour,  and,  when  well  mixed, 
pour  on  gradually  two  cups  milk.  Season  with 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  stir  constantly  until 
mixture  thickens.  Have  at  hand  six  slices  of 
toasted  bread.  Dip  slices  separately  in  sauce, 
when  soft  remove  to  serving  plate,  and  pour 
over  each  slice  one  tablespoon  sauce. 

Tomato  Cream  Toast 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  table- 
spoons flour,  mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
and  pour  on  gradually  one  and  one-half  cups 
stewed  and  strained  tomatoes,  to  which  has 
been  added  one-fourth  teaspoon  soda;  then  add 
one-half  cup  cream.  Dip  slices  of  toasted  bread 
in  sauce,  and  serve  same  as  Milk  Toast.  This 
sauce  should  be  cooked  over  hot  water, 

«7 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Egg  Toast 

Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one  table- 
spoon flour  mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt 
and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  and  pour  on 
gradually  one  cup  milk.  Add  the  whites  of 
three  hard-boiled  eggs,  finely  chopped.  Pour 
over  four  slices  of  toasted  bread,  and  sprinkle 
the  top  with  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled 
eggs  forced  through  a  potato  ricer  or  strainer. 

Anchovy  Toast 

Toast  four  slices  of  bread  from  which  the 
crusts  have  been  removed  and  spread  with  an- 
chovy paste.  Scald  one  cup  milk,  add  two  egg 
yolks,  and  stir  constantly  until  the  mixture 
thickens.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  until 
stiff,  add  to  the  thickened  milk,  beat  thoroughly 
and  pour  over  the  toast. 

German  Toast 

Beat  two  eggs  slightly,  add  one-third  teaspoon 
salt,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  sugar  and  two- 
thirds  cup  milk;  strain.  Soak  four  slices  stale 
bread  in  mixture  until  soft.  Heat  and  brown 
delicately  on  both  sides  in  a  hot  blazer,  using 
enough  butter  to  prevent  burning. 

28 


Toast,  Griddle  Cakes,  and  Fritters 

Brewis 

Break  stale  pieces  of  brown  bread  in  small 
pieces.  Butter  a  hot  chafing  dish,  put  in  bread, 
and  add  milk  to  cover.  Cook  until  mixture  is 
smooth,  which  may  be  accomplished  by  mashing 
pieces  with  a  fork  during  the  cooking;  season 
with  butter  and  salt 

Entire  Wheat  Griddle  Cakes 

Mix  and  sift  one-half  cup  flour,  one-fourth 
cup  coarse  entire  wheat  or  Graham  flour,  one 
and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  and 
one-half  tablespoons  sugar,  and  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt.  Add  one-half  cup  milk,  one  egg 
slightly  beaten,  and  one-half  tablespoon  melted 
butter.  Drop  from  the  tip  of  a  spoon  on  a  hot, 
well-buttered  blazer.  Cook  on  one  side  until 
delicately  browned ;  turn  and  cook  on  the  other 

side. 

French  Fritters 

Mix  and  sift  one  cup  flour,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt,  and  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Add  three-fourths  cup  milk,  one  egg  well  beaten, 
and  one  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Fry  same 
as  griddle  cakes.  When  cooked,  spread  with 
currant  jelly,  roll,  and  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar.  Beat  jelly  with  a  fork,  before  attempting 
to  spread. 

29 


EGGS 


3» 


And  eggs  —  even  they  have  their  moral.  See  how 
they  come  and  go.  Eve^y  pleasure  is  transitory.  We 
can't  even  eat  long 

Dickens 


3* 


IV 

EGGS 

Boiled  Eggs 

When  water  boils  in  blazer  carefully  put  in 
with  a  spoon  the  number  of  eggs  desired, 
having  sufficient  water  to  cover  them.  Cover 
and  place  over  hot-water  pan,  that  eggs  may 
cook  in  water  at  the  proper  temperature.  Cook 
from  seven  to  eight  minutes  if  preferred  **  soft 
boiled/' 

Poached  Eggs 

Have  blazer  two-thirds  full  of  boiling  water. 
Break  each  egg  separately  into  a  saucer,  and 
slip  into  the  pan.  Cover  and  place  blazer  over 
hot  water  pan.  Let  stand  until  whites  of  eggs 
are  firm.  Remove  from  pan  to  circular  pieces 
of  buttered  toast.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  place  on  top  of  each  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon butter. 

Eggs  k  la  Finoise 

Prepare  Poached  Eggs  and  serve  with  to* 
mato  sauce. 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Buttered  Eggs 

Melt  three-fourths  tablespoon  butter  in  a  hot 
blazer,  slip  in  carefully  one  egg,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  until  the  white  is 
firm,  turning  once  during  the  cooking.  Attempt 
to  cook  but  one  egg  at  a  time. 

Eggs  k  la  Suisse 

Melt  one  tablespoon  butter  in  blazer,  add 
one-half  cup  thin  cream,  and  as  soon  as  cream 
reaches  the  boiling  point,  slip  in  carefully  three 
eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Place  over  hot  water  pan, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  few  grains 
cayenne.  When  whites  are  nearly  firm,  sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese  and  finish  the  cooking. 
Serve  on  circular  pieces  of  buttered  toast 
Strain  cream  remaining  in  pan  over  eggs. 

Eggs  in  Brown  Butter 

Melt  one-half  tablespoon  each  lard  and  butter 
in  hot  blazer.  Break  one  egg  in  a  saucer,  and 
slip  carefully  into  dish.  Cook  until  white  is 
firm,  turning  egg  once.  So  continue  until  a 
sufficient  number  are  cooked.  Brown  four 
tablespoons  butter,  add  one  tablespoon  Tar- 
ragon vinegar,  one  teaspoon  Chili  sauce,  one 
teaspoon  lemon  juice,  and  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt.     Strain  over  eggs. 

34 


Eggs 

Eggs  au  Beurre  Noir 

Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  and  slip  in  care- 
fully four  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  until  whites  are  firm, 
adding  more  butter  if  needed.  Turn  once  dur- 
ing the  cooking.  Brown  two  tablespoons  butter, 
add  one-half  teaspoon  vinegar,  and  strain  over 
eggs. 

Scuffled  Egg 

Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  until  stiff,  and  sea- 
son with  salt.  Put  into  a  tumbler,  and  place 
tumbler  in  pan  of  warm  water,  allowing  water  to 
heat  gradually  until  boiling  point  is  reached, 
when  egg  is  cooked.  As  the  white  of  egg  rises, 
make  a  depression  and  drop  in  the  yolk. 

Scrambled  Eggs 

Beat  five  eggs  slightly,  add  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  one  eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  and  one-half 
cup  milk  or  cream.  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter, 
pour  in  egg  mixture,  and  cook  until  of  a  creamy 
consistency,  stirring  constantly  and  scraping 
from  bottom  of  pan.  Many  prefer  to  omit  the 
milk,  and  use  three  tablespoons  butter  in  place 
of  two  tablespoons. 

35 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Tomatoes 

Fry  one  small  slice  onion  in  two  tablespoons 
butter,  five  minutes.  Add  one  cup  tomatoes, 
one  teaspoon  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  a 
few  grains  pepper,  and  cook  five  minutes.  Add 
four  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  cook  same  as 
Scrambled  Eggs.  Serve  with  entire  wheat  or 
brown  bread  toast. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Anchovy  Toast 

Spread  thin  slices  of  buttered  toast  with  an- 
chovy paste,  and  cover  with  scrambled  eggs. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Asparagus  Tips 

Prepare  Scrambled  Eggs,  and  add  one  cup 
cooked  asparagus  tips.  If  the  canned  vegeta- 
ble is  used,  rinse  thoroughly  and  drain. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Cheese 

Prepare  Scrambled  Eggs,  and  just  before  serv- 
ing add  four  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  mixed 
with  one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika. 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Mushrooms 

Clean  mushrooms ;  remove  stems,  scrape,  and 
break  in  pieces ;  peel  caps  and  break  in  pieces. 

36 


Eggs 

Melt  four  tablespoons  butter,  add  one  and  one- 
half  cups  mushrooms,  previously  dredged  with 
flour,  a  few  drops  onion  juice,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Cook 
eight  minutes.  Beat  four  eggs  slightly,  add 
one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon 
pepper;  then  add  to  mushrooms  and  cook 
until  eggs  are  of  a  creamy  consistency,  stirring 
constantly  and  scraping  from  bottom  of  pan. 

Eggs  a  la  Creole 

Cook  three  tablespoons  butter  with  one  ta- 
blespoon finely  chopped  onion,  three  minutes. 
Add  one  and  three-fourths  cups  tomatoes, 
drained  from  their  liquor,  and  cook  eight  min- 
utes. Add  one  tablespoon  sliced  mushrooms, 
one  tablespoon  capers,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt, 
a  few  grains  of  cayenne,  and  five  eggs  beaten 
slightly.  Cook  until  of  a  creamy  consistency, 
stirring  constantly  and  scraping  from  bottom 
of  pan. 

Eggs  k  la  Caracas 

Chop  finely  two  ounces  smoked,  dried  beef, 
freed  from  fat  and  outside  skin.  Add  one 
cup  tomatoes,  one-fourth  cup  grated  old  Eng- 
lish cheese,  a  few  drops  onion  juice,  and  a  few 
grains  each   of  cinnamon  and  cayenne.     Melt 

27 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

two  tablespoons  butter,  add  mixture,  and  when 
heated  add  three  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Cook 
until  of  a  creamy  consistency,  stirring  con- 
stantly and  scraping  from  bottom  of  pan. 


Venetian  Eggs 

Cook  two  tablespoons  butter  with  one  table 
spoon  finely  chopped  onion,  a  bit  of  bay  leaf, 
and  a  blade  of  mace,  until  yellow.  Remove  bay 
leaf  and  mace ;  then  add  one  and  one-half  cups 
tomatoes,  one-fourth  cup  cheese  cut  in  small 
pieces,  three  eggs  slightly  beaten,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika.  Cook 
until  eggs  are  of  a  creamy  consistency,  stirring 
constantly  and  scraping  from  bottom  of  pan. 
Pour  over  slices  of  toasted  bread. 


Eggs  k  TEspagnole 

Cook  a  clove  of  garlic  finely  chopped,  and 
one-half  green  pepper  finely  chopped,  in  two 
tablespoons  olive  oil,  five  minutes.  Add  three 
tomatoes  cut  in  small  pieces,  eight  sliced  mush- 
rooms, and  one-half  cup  cold  cooked  meat, 
finely  chopped.  Cook  five  minutes,  add  four 
eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  cook  until  the  eggs 
are  set. 

3S 


Eggs 

Curried  Eggs 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  table- 
spoons flour  mixed  with  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  one-half  teaspoon  curry  powder,  and  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  paprika.  Stir  until  well  mixed, 
then  pour  on  gradually  one  cup  milk.  Add 
three  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  eighths  length- 
wise, and  reheat  in  sauce. 

Eggs  k  la  B6chamel 

Fry  three  tablespoons  butter  with  one  slice 
each  carrot  and  onion  cut  in  pieces,  a  sprig  of 
parsley  and  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  five  minutes.  Add 
three  tablespoons  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika ;  then  add 
one  cup  chicken  stock,  strain,  reheat,  and  add 
four  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  eighths  lengthwise. 
Just  before  serving,  add  one-half  cup  cream  and 
a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg. 

Eggs  k  la  Soubise 

Boil  onions  and  rub  through  a  sieve ;  there 
should  be  one  cup  of  onion  pur^e.  Melt  two 
tablespoons  butter,  add  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons flour  and  the  onion  puree.  As  soon  as 
heated,  add  one-third  cup  milk  and  the  yolks 
of  two   eggs.     Season  with  salt   and   paprika, 

39 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Add  five  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  slices.     Just 

before  serving,  sprinkle    with    finely   chopped 

parsley. 

Scotch  W^oodcock 

Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  one  and 
one-half  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradu- 
ally one  cup  milk.  Add  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  and  anchovy 
essence.  Add  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  finely 
chopped,  and  serve  on  slices  of  toast. 

Fricasseed  Eggs 

Cook  two  tablespoons  butter  with  one  and 
one-half  tablespoons  finely  chopped  mushrooms, 
and  one-half  shallot,  finely  chopped.  Add  one 
and  one-half  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on 
gradually  one  cup  white  stock.  Add  five  hard- 
boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices. 

Steamed  Eggs 

Butter  small  dario  moulds  and  sprinkle  with 
finely  chopped  parsley.  Carefully  slip  an  egg 
into  each  mould,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Put  moulds  in  blazer,  and  pour  around 
boiling  water  to  three-fourths  the  depth  of  the 
moulds.  Let  cook  until  whites  are  firm,  keep- 
ing water  below  the  boiling  point.  Remove 
from  moulds  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

40 


Eggs 

Egg  Timbales 

Beat  four  eggs  slightly  ;  add  one-fourth  cup 
cream,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt,  and  a  few  grains  each  of  celery  salt 
and  paprika.  Turn  the  mixture  into  small  but- 
tered dario  moulds.  Set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water 
and  cook  until  firm.  Turn  from  moulds  and 
serve  with  a  thin  tomato  or  Bechamel  sauce. 

Plain  Omelet 

Beat  three  eggs  slightly;  add  three  table- 
spoons milk,  one-third  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  few 
grains  pepper.  Melt  one  tablespoon  butter, 
turn  in  the  mixture,  and  cook  until  of  a  creamy 
consistency,  using  a  spatula  to  scrape  cooked 
mixture  from  bottom  of  pan,  that  it  may  mix 
with  the  uncooked  part,  and  thus  prevent  any 
portion  from  being  overdone.  Loosen  omelet 
by  running  spatula  around  side  and  bottom  of 
pan.     Fold  and  turn. 

Cheese  Omelet 

Beat  two  eggs  slightly;  add  one-eighth  tea- 
spoon salt  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne.  Melt 
three-fourths  tablespooa  butter,  pour  in  mixture, 
and  cook  until  firm,  without  stirring.  Loosen 
from  pan,  roll,  and  sprinkle  with  one  tablespoon 
grated  cheese. 

4J 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Oyster  Omelet 

Prepare  a  Plain  Omelet.  Clean  one  cup 
oysters,  and  cook  until  plump;  drain  and  re- 
serve liquor.  Spread  oysters  on  omelet  just 
before  folding.  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter; 
add  two  tablespoons  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  and  a  few  grains  of  pepper.  Pour  on  grad- 
ually oyster  liquor  and  enough  milk  to  make 
one  cup  liquid.     Pour  sauce  around  omelet. 

Spanish  Omelet 

Prepare  a  Plain  Omelet  and  serve  with  Span- 
ish Sauce. 

Spanish  Sauce 

Cook  two  tablespoons  butter  with  one  table- 
spoon finely  chopped  onion,  and  one-fourth 
green  pepper  (from  which  the  seeds  have  been 
removed)  finely  chopped,  five  minutes.  Add  one 
and  three-fourths  cups  tomatoes,  drained  from 
their  liquor;  cook  until  moisture  has  nearly 
evaporated,  then  add  one  tablespoon  sliced 
mushrooms,  one  tablespoon  capers,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  salt,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne. 


4t 


OYSTERS 


43 


Whom  sea-green  Sirens  from  the  rocks  lament 

Dryden 


44 


OYSTERS 

Grilled  Oysters 

Clean  one  pint  oysters  and  drain  off  all  the 
liquor  possible.  Put  oysters  in  blazer,  and  as 
fast  as  liquor  flows  from  them,  remove  it  with 
a  spoon.  So  continue  until  oysters  are  plump. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  two  table- 
spoons butter,  and  serve  on  zephyrettes. 

Panned  Oysters 

Melt  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter, 
add  two  tablespoons  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  and  one-half 
tablespoon  Chili  sauce.  Clean  one  pint  oysters 
and  add.  Cook  until  edges  curl,  then  add  one 
tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and  two  table- 
spoons chopped  celery.     Serve  with  toast. 

Fancy  Roast 

Clean  and  drain  one  pint  oysters.  Put  into  a 
blazer  and  cook  until  plump,  stirring  occasion- 

45 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

ally  with  a  fork.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  add  two  tablespoons  butter.  Pour  over 
small  slices  of  toast. 


Oyster  Fricassee 

Clean  one  pint  oysters,  reserve  liquor,  heat 
to  boiling  point,  and  strain  through  double  thick- 
ness of  cheese-cloth.  Add  oysters  to  liquor, 
and  cook  until  plump,  then  remove  with  a  skim- 
mer. Add  enough  cream  to  liquor  to  make 
one  cup.  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two 
tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  the 
liquid.  Add  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  a  few 
grains  cayenne,  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
parsley,  the  oysters,  and  one  egg  slightly  beaten. 
Serve  on  toast. 

Creamed  Oysters 

Clean  one  pint  oysters,  and  cook  until  plump. 
Drain,  strain  the  liquor,  and  add  enough  milk 
to  make  one  and  one-half  cups.  Melt  three 
tablespoons  butter,  add  five  tablespoons  flour, 
and  pour  on  gradually  the  liquid.  Season  with 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon 
each  pepper  and  celery  salt.  Add  the  oysters, 
and  as  soon  as  heated  pour  over  slices  of  toast. 

46 


Oysters 

Celeried  Oysters 
Prepare  same  as  Creamed  Oysters,  and  after 
pouring  oysters  over  toast,  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  celery. 

Oysters  in  Brown  Sauce 
Clean  one  pint  oysters  and  cook  until  plump ; 
drain,  and  strain  the  liquor.  Melt  one-fourth 
cup  butter,  and  stir  until  well  browned,  add  one- 
fourth  cup  flour,  and  stir  until  flour  is  browned. 
Pour  on  gradually  one  cup  oyster  liquor  and 
one-half  cup  milk.  Season  with  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  and 
one  teaspoon  anchovy  essence.  Serve  on  toast 
or  zephyrettes. 

Saut6  of  Oysters 
Clean  one  pint  oysters  and  cook  until  plump; 
drain  thoroughly  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Lift  each  oyster  separately,  and  dip 
in  cracker  crumbs.  Put  three  tablespoons  butter 
in  blazer,  add  oysters,  brown  on  one  side,  turn 
and  brown  other  side.  Serve  with  horse-radish 
mustard,  which  may  be  bought  put  up  in  small 
jars,  of  first-class  grocers. 

Oyster  Stew 
Clean  and  drain  one  pint  oysters,  reserving 
hquor.    Heat  liquor  to  boiling  point,  add  oysters 

47 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

and  cook  until  plump,  care  being  taken  that 
they  are  not  overdone.  Remove  oysters  with 
a  skimmer,  strain  liquor  a  second  time,  and  add 
to  oysters.  Scald  one  pint  milk,  add  oysters 
with  liquor,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  and  a  few  grains  pepper.  Serve 
with  oyster  crackers,  or  small  pieces  of  bread, 
thoroughly  toasted.  To  many  the  flavor  is  much 
improved  by  cooking  with  milk  a  small  slice  of 
onion  and  a  stalk  of  celery  broken  in  pieces; 
both  to  be  removed  as  soon  as  milk  is  scalded. 

Oysters  k  la  Thorndike 

Clean  and  drain  one  pint  oysters.  Melt  three 
tablespoons  butter,  add  oysters,  and  cook  until 
plump;  then  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one- 
eighth  tea-spoon  paprika,  a  slight  grating  nut- 
meg, one-fourth  cup  cream,  and  yolks  of  two 
eggs.  Cook  until  slightly  thickened,  and  serve 
on  zephyrettes. 

Devilled  Oysters,  I. 

Clean  one  pint  oysters,  drain,  and  cook  until 
plump.  Remove  tough  muscles  from  oysters 
and  reserve  oyster  liquor.  Melt  three  table- 
spoons butter,  add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and 
pour  on  gradually  the  oyster  liquor  with  enough 
water  to  make  one  cup  liquid.    Season  with  one- 

48 


Oysters 

half  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  mustard, 
a  few  grains  cayenne,  and  one  teaspoon  lemon 
juice.  As  soon  as  oysters  are  heated,  add  the 
yolk  of  one  egg  and  one  teaspoon  finely 
chopped  parsley. 

Devilled  Oysters,  II. 

Clean  one  pint  oysters,  cook  until  plump, 
drain,  and  reserve  liquor.  Strain  liquor  through 
cheese-cloth.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter, 
add  four  tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  one-half 
teaspoon  each  salt  and  curry  powder,  and  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  paprika.  Pour  on  gradually 
the  oyster  liquor  with  enough  water  to  make 
one  and  one-half  cups  liquid.  Add  oysters  and 
season  with  one  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce, 
one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  ten  drops  Tabasco 
sauce,  and  salt  to  taste.  Serve  on  Graham 
toast. 

Oysters  k  la  D'Uxelles 

Clean  one  pint  oysters,  heat  to  boiling  point, 
drain,  and  reserve  liquor.  Strain  liquor  through 
cheese-cloth;  there  should  be  three-fourths  cup. 
Cook  two  tablespoons  butter  with  two  table- 
spoons chopped  canned  mushroons,  five  minutes. 
Add  two  tablespoons  flour  and  pour  on  grad- 
ually the  oyster  liquor.     Season  with  one-half 

49 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  cayenne,  and  one 
teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Add  oysters,  and,  as  soon 
as  heated,  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  one  table- 
spoon sherry  wine. 

Oysters  k  la  B6chamel 

Clean  one  pint  oysters  and  cook  until  plump. 
Drain,  reserve  liquor,  and  strain  through  cheese- 
cloth. Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three 
tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one- 
half  cup  each  oyster  liquor  and  highly  seasoned 
chicken  stock.  Add  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  the  oysters,  and  one- 
half  cup  cream.     Serve  on  zephyrettes. 

Curried  Oysters 

Clean  one  pint  oysters  and  cook  until  plump. 
Drain,  reserve  liquor,  and  strain  through  cheese- 
cloth. Cook  three  tablespoons  butter  with  one- 
half  tablespoon  onion  until  yellow.  Add  four 
tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  one  and  one-half 
teaspoons  curry  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
and  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika.  Pour  on 
gradually  oyster  liquor  and  enough  milk  to 
make  one  and  one-half  cups  liquid.  Add  oys- 
ters, and  as  soon  as  heated  pour  over  toasted 
crackers. 

SO 


Oysters 

Oysters  k  la  Creole 

Clean  one  pint  oysters,  cook  until  plump, 
drain,  and  reserve  liquor.  Cook  three  table- 
spoons butter  with  three  cloves,  a  bit  of  bay 
leaf,  a  slice  each  of  carrot  and  onion,  and  a 
stalk  of  celery,  five  minutes.  Add  three  table- 
spoons flour  and  pour  on  gradually  one-half  cup 
oyster  liquor  and  one  cup  stewed  and  strained 
tomatoes.  Reheat  oysters  in  sauce,  and  add 
salt,  pepper,  a  few  drops  Tabasco  sauce,  and 
one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley.  Serve  on 
toast.  The  vegetables  may  be  cooked  with  the 
tomatoes  before  the  preparation  of  the  dish; 
then  the  tomatoes  may  be  strained  ready  for 
use. 


Sx 


LOBSTERS 


Si 


'^Tis  very  fresh  and  sweety  sir  ; 
The  fish  was  taken  but  this  night 

Beaumont  and  Fletcher 


Si 


VI 

LOBSTERS 

Buttered  Lobster 

Remove  the  meat  from  a  two-pound  lobster, 
and  chop  slightly.  Melt  three  tablespoons 
butter,  add  lobster,  and  cook  until  thoroughly 
heated.  Season  with  salt,  paprika,  and  lemon 
juice. 

Devilled  Lobster 

Mix  one  and  one-half  cups  lobster  meat,  cut 
in  dice,  with  two  tablespoons  olive  oil  and  one 
tablespoon  vinegar.  Melt  three  tablespoons 
butter,  add  four  tablespoons  tomato  catsup  and 
the  lobster  dice.  Season  with  one-half  teaspoon 
mustard,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  lemon  juice, 
salt,  and  cayenne.  Serve  as  soon  as  thoroughly 
heated, 

Saut6d  Lobster 

Remove  tail  meat  from  a  two-pound  lobster, 
and  cut  in  four  pieces ;  also  remove  meat  from 
large  claws.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  paprika,  and 
lemon  juice.     Dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs, 

55 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

and  saute,  using  enough  butter  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Lobster  becomes  tough  if  over-cooked. 
Serve  with  sauce  Tartare. 

Creamed  Lobster 

Remove  the  meat  from  a  two-pound  lobster, 
and  cut  in  cubes.  Melt  three  tablespoons 
butter,  add  four  tablespoons  flour  mixed  with 
one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon 
paprika.  Pour  on  gradually  one  and  one-half 
cups  milk.  As  soon  as  sauce  thickens,  add 
lobster  meat  and  two  teaspoons  lemon  juice. 
Serve  with  brown  bread  or  Graham  bread  sand- 
wiches. 

Curried  Lobster,  I 

Prepare  same  as  Creamed  Lobster,  adding 
one  teaspoon  curry  powder  to  flour  when  mak- 
ing sauce. 

Curried  Lobster,  II 

Remove  the  meat  from  a  two-pound  lobster 
and  cut  in  cubes.  Cook  three  tablespoons 
butter  with  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
onion  until  yellow.  Add  three  tablespoons 
flour  mixed  with  one-half  tablespoon  curry 
powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-eighth 
teaspoon  paprika.  Pour  on  gradually  two  cups 
milk.     Mash   the   yolks    of  three    hard-boiled 

S6 


Lobsters 

eggs,  and  mix  with  the  liver  of  the  lobster. 
Add  lobster  cubes  to  sauce,  and,  as  soon  as 
heated,  the  egg  mixture.  Serve  with  boiled 
rice. 

Fricassee  of  Lobster 

Remove  the  meat  from  a  two-pound  lobster, 
and  chop.  Add  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled 
eggs  rubbed  to  a  paste,  one-half  teaspoon  finely 
chopped  parsley,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  and  a  sh'ght  grating 
nutmeg.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add 
four  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually 
one  and  one-half  cups  milk.  Heat  lobster  with 
seasonings  in  sauce.     Serve  with  saltines. 

Lobster  k  la  B6chamel 

Remove  the  meat  from  a  two-pound  lobster, 
and  cut  in  cubes.  Scald  two  cups  milk  with 
one-half  slice  onion  and  a  bit  of  bay  leaf;  re- 
move seasonings.  Melt  three  tablespoons  but- 
ter, add  four  tablespoons  flour  mixed  with 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  cayenne, 
and  a  slight  grating  nutmeg.  Pour  on  gradu* 
ally  the  scalded  milk.  Heat  lobster  in  sauce, 
add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly  beaten,  one 
and  one-half  teaspoons  lemon  juice  and  one 
teaspoon  parsley  finely  chopped. 

57 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Lobster  k  la  Poulette 

Remove  the  meat  from  a  two-pound  lobster, 
and  cut  in  cubes.  Season  with  salt,  paprika,  and 
lemon  juice.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter, 
add  three  tablespoons  flour,  mixed  with  one 
half  teaspoon  salt,  and  pour  on  gradually  three- 
fourths  cup  highly  seasoned  chicken  stock. 
Add  lobster  meat,  and,  as  soon  as  heated,  three- 
fourths  cup  cream.  Have  ready  the  yolks  of 
two  hard-boiled  eggs  and  the  lobster  coral 
forced  through  a  potato  ricer.  Serve  lobster 
on  zephyrettes,  and  sprinkle  with  egg  and 
coral. 

Lobster  k  la  Am6ricaine 

Cook  two  tablespoons  butter  with  one-half 
tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  until  yellow. 
Add  two  tablespoons  flour  and  pour  on  grad- 
ually one  cup  stewed  and  strained  tomatoes. 
To  lobster  liver  add  one  tablespoon  sherry  wine 
and  add  to  sauce.  Season  with  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika. 
Add  one  and  one-half  cups  lobster  meat  cut  in 
dice.  As  soon  as  heated,  add  one  tablespoon 
sherry  wine. 

Lobster  ^  la  Delmonico 

Melt  one-fourth  cup  butter,  add  one  table- 
spoon flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains 

S8 


Lobsters 

cayenne,  and  a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg.  Pour 
on  gradually  one  cup  thin  cream.  Add  the 
meat  from  a  two-pound  lobster  cut  in  dice,  and 
when  heated  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and 
two  tablespoons  sherry  wine. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg 

Remove  the  meat  from  a  two-pound  lobster, 
and  cut  in  slices  or  cubes.  Melt  one-fourth  cup 
butter,  add  the  lobster,  and  cook  until  thoroughly 
heated.  Season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  a 
few  grains  cayenne,  a  slight  grating  nutmeg,  and 
one  tablespoon  each  sherry  wine  and  brandy. 
Cook  one  minute,  and  add  one-third  cup  thin 
cream  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly  beaten. 
Stir  until  sauce  is  thickened.  Serve  with  toast 
or  puff  paste  points. 

Lobster  and  Mushroom  Fricassee 

Cook  one  cup  mushrooms,  cleaned  and  broken 
in  pieces,  in  one-fourth  cup  butter,  with  a  few 
drops  onion  juice,  three  minutes.  Add  one- 
fourth  cup  flour,  mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon 
salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  and  one 
and  one-half  cups  milk.  Reheat  one  and  one- 
half  cups  lobster  meat  cut  in  dice  in  the  sauce. 
Just  before  serving  add  two  tablespoons  sherry 
wine. 

59 


SOME  OTHER  SHELL-FISH 


$t 


Variety 's  the  very  spice  of  life 

That  i^ives  it  all  its  flavor 

^  Cow  PER 


61 


VII 

SOME   OTHER   SHELL-FISH 

Clams  k  la  Newburg 

Clean  one  pint  clams,  remove  soft  parts,  and 
finely  chop  hard  parts.  Melt  three  tablespoons 
butter,  add  chopped  clams,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  a  few  grains  cayenne,  and  three  tablespoons 
sherry  wine.  Cook  eight  minutes  ;  add  soft 
part  of  clams  and  one-half  cup  thin  cream. 
Cook  two  minutes,  then  add  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  slightly  beaten,  diluted  with  some  of  the 
hot  sauce. 

Creamed  Crabs 

Remove  the  meat  from  one  dozen  hard- 
shelled  crabs.  Cook  four  tablespoons  butter 
with  one-half  shallot,  finely  chopped,  until  yel- 
low; add  four  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on 
gradually  two  cups  cream.  Add  crab  meat, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pa- 
prika, a  slight  grating  nutmeg,  and  two  table* 
spoons  sherry  wine. 

63 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Devilled  Crabs 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  table- 
spoons flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one  and 
one-fourth  cups  chicken  stock.  As  soon  as 
mixture  thickens,  add  one  cup  crab  meat,  one- 
fourth  cup  finely  chopped  mushrooms,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika,  two 
tablespoons  sherry  wine,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and 
one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley.  Serve 
with  saltines. 

Crabs  k  la  Richmond 

Cook  one  cup  crab  meat  in  one  teaspoon 
butter  and  two  tablespoons  sherry  wine,  two 
minutes.  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two 
tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one- 
third  cup  milk  and  one-third  cup  clam  broth. 
Add  crab  meat  and  the  soft  part  of  eighteen 
clams  to  sauce.  When  thoroughly  heated,  sea- 
son with  salt  and  paprika.  Just  before  serving 
add  one  tablespoon  brandy  and  the  yolk  of 
one  egg,  slightly  beaten. 

Stewed  Scallops 

Clean  and  cut  in  halves  one  pint  scallops. 
Cook  in  chafing  dish  until  liquor  flows  freely. 
Avoid  cooking  too  long,  for  by  so  doing  seal 
lops   become   tough.      Strain   Hquor,  add  two 

64 


Some  Other  Shell-Fish 

cups  milk,  and,  as  soon  as  heated,  scallops. 
Season  with  two  tablespoons  butter,  salt  and 
pepper.     Serve  with  small  crackers. 

Devilled  Scallops 

Clean  one  pint  scallops,  heat  to  boiling  point, 
drain,  and  reserve  liquor.  Melt  three  table- 
spoons butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour, 
mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  mustard,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne. 
Pour  on  gradually  the  reserved  liquor.  When 
sauce  begins  to  thicken,  add  the  scallops. 
Serve  with  brown  bread  sandwiches. 

Fried  Scallops 

Cook  one  pint  selected  scallops  in  blazer, 
until  liquor  flows  freely  from  them.  Drain,  and 
dry  on  a  towel.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  a 
small  quantity  of  hot  fat,  being  careful  to  do 
but  few  at  a  time.  Serve  with  mayonnaise 
dressing  or  sauce  Tartare. 

Shrimps  with  Curried  Rice 

Cook  three  tablespoons  butter  with  one-half 
tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  until  yellow; 
then  add  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  corn- 
starch mixed  with  two  teaspoons  curry  powder, 

6s 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

one  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pa- 
prika. Pour  on  gradually  two  cups  milk,  then 
add  one  and  one-half  cups  shrimps,  broken  in 
pieces,  and  one  cup  warm,  boiled  rice. 

Shrimp  Wiggle 

Melt  four  tablespoons  butter,  and  add  three 
tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon 
salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper.  Pour  on 
gradually  one  and  one-half  cups  milk.  As 
soon  as  sauce  thickens,  add  one  cup  shrimps, 
broken  in  pieces,  and  one  cup  canned  peas, 
drained  from  their  liquor  and  thoroughly 
rinsed. 

Creamed  Shrimps  with  Mushrooms 

Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  and  add  three 
tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon 
salt  and  a  few  grains  paprika.  Pour  on  gradu- 
ally one  and  one-half  cups  milk.  As  soon  as 
mixture  thickens,  add  one  cup  shrimps,  broken 
in  pieces,  and  one-half  cup  canned  mushrooms 
cut  in  quarters. 

Shrimps  k  la  B6chamel 

Cook' three  tablespoons  butter  with  one-half 
tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  five  minutes, 
add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  grad- 

66 


Some  Other  Shell-Fish 

ually  three-fourths  cup  each  highly  seasoned 
chicken  stock  and  milk.  Add  one  and  one-half 
cups  shrimps,  broken  in  pieces,  and  when  thor- 
oughly heated  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  slightly 
beaten. 

Devilled  Shrimps 

Cook  two  tablespoons  butter  with  one-half 
shallot,  finely  chopped,  five  minutes.  Cream 
two  tablespoons  butter,  add  four  tablespoons 
flour  and  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs 
rubbed  to  a  paste.  Add  to  melted  butter,  and 
when  well  mixed  pour  on  gradually  two  cups 
milk.  Add  one  can  shrimps,  broken  in  pieces, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
mustard,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper. 
Serve  with  puff  paste  points  or  Graham  toast. 

Shrimps  in  Tomato  Sauce 

Fry  one  small  onion  in  three  tablespoons 
butter,  until  yellow;  add  three  tablespoons 
flour  and  stir  until  mixture  is  smooth.  Pour 
on  gradually  one  and  one-half  cups  stewed  and 
strained  tomatoes,  and  add  one  can  shrimps, 
rinsed,  drained,  cleaned,  and  broken  in  pieces. 
Season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  paprika.  Serve  as  soon  as 
shrimps  are  heated. 

67 


FISH    RECHAUFFES 


69 


This  dish  of  meat  is  too  good  for  any  hut  anglers  or 
very  honest  men 

Walton 


JO 


VIII 

FISH    RECHAUFFES 

Creamed  Salmon 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  table- 
spoons flour  mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Pour  on  gradually 
three-fourths  cup  milk.  Add  one  cup  canned 
salmon,  drained  and  flaked.  Just  before  serv- 
ing add  yolks  of  two  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and 
a  slight  grating  of  nutmeg. 

Saut6d  Fillets  of  Salmon 

Sprinkle  small  slices  of  salmon  with  salt  and 
pepper;  saute  in  a  hot  blazer,  using  enough 
butter  to  prevent  burning.  Season  with  lemon 
juice  and  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Fish  k  la  Provengale 

Melt  one-fourth  cup  butter,  add  two  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually 
two  cups  milk.  Mash  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled 
eggs,  and  mix  with  one  teaspoon  anchovy  es" 

71 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

sencc,  add  to   sauce,  then  add  two  cups  cold 
boiled,  flaked  fish. 

Creamed  Salt  Codfish 

Pick  in  pieces  and  soak  in  lukewarm  water 
one  and  one-half  cups  fish;  drain  as  soon  as 
soft.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  two 
tablespoons  flour  and  a  few  grains  pepper. 
Pour  on  gradually  one  and  one-half  cups  tnilk. 
Add  fish  and  one  egg,  slightly  beaten.  Pour 
over  slices  of  toasted  bread,  covered  with  slices 
of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Salt  Codfish  with  Cheese 

Prepare  codfish  as  in  preceding  recipe. 
Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  one-eighth 
teaspoon  paprika,  and  pour  on  gradually  one 
cup  milk.  Add  fish  and  one-half  cup  grated 
cheese.  As  soon  as  cheese  is  melted,  add  one 
egg,  slightly  beaten. 

Grilled  Sardines 

Drain  twelve  sardines  and  cook  until  heated, 
turning  frequently.  Arrange  on  small  oblong 
pieces  of  dry  toast  and  serve  with  Maitre 
d'H6tel  butter. 

72 


Fish  Rechauffes 

Ragout  of  Sardines,  I 

Drain  sardines,  remove  backbones,  and  sepa- 
rate in  pieces.  Heat  in  blazer,  season  with  salt 
and  paprika,  and  add  sherry  wine  to  moisten. 
Serve  on  zephyrettes. 

Ragout  of  Sardines,  II 

Drain  sardines,  remove  backbones,  and  sepa- 
rate in  pieces.  Heat  in  blazer,  using  enough 
butter  to  moisten.  Season  with  Worcestershire 
sauce  and  cayenne,  allowing  one  teaspoon  sauce 
and  one-eighth  teaspoon  cayenne  for  twelve 
fish. 

Sardines  with  Anchovy  Sauce 

Drain  twelve  sardines  and  cook  until  heated, 
turning  frequently.  Make  one  cup  brown  sauce 
with  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  sardine  oil, 
two  tablespoons  flour,  one  cup  brown  stock,  and 
anchovy  essence  to  taste.  Reheat  sardines  in 
sauce.     Serve  with  brown  bread  sandwiches. 

Sardines  k  la  Hollandaise 

Drain  twelve  sardines,  heat  and  arrange  on 
oblong  pieces  of  toast.  Melt  two  tablespoons 
butter,  add  one-half  tablespoon  Chutney,  one- 
fourth     teaspoon     salt,     one-eighth     teaspoon 

7^ 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

paprika,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  one-half 
tablespoon  lemon  juice.  Stir  constantly  until 
sauce  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  two  table- 
spoons butter  and  one-fourth  cup  boiling  water. 
Pour  sauce  over  sardines. 

Devilled  Sardines 

Drain  twelve  sardines,  and  cook  until  heated. 
Mix  two  tablespoons  sardine  oil,  one-half  table- 
spoon Worcestershire  sauce,  one-half  tablespoon 
vinegar,  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  salt,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika. 
Heat  and  pour  over  sardines. 


7i 


BEEF 


75 


The  empty  spit 
Ne  Vr  cherished  wit : 
Minerva  loves  the  larder 

W.  Cartwright 


76 


IX 

BEEF 

Warmed  Over  Beef 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  table- 
spoons flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one-half  cup 
stewed  and  strained  tomatoes  and  one-fourth 
cup  stock  or  water.  Season  with  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  and 
a  few  drops  onion  juice.  Add  one  cup  rare 
chopped  beef;  cook  one  minute,  and  serve. 

Rechauff6  of  Beef 

Brown  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  three 
tablespoons  flour,  and,  when  well  browned,  pour 
on  gradually  one  cup  stock.  Season  with 
one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon 
paprika,  a  few  grains  each  of  mustard  and  curry 
powder,  and  two  tablespoons  sherry  wine.  Pour 
sauce  over  thin  slices  of  rare  roast  beef. 

Beef  Balls 

Cut  one-half  pound  beef  from  top  of  round, 
in  one-third  inch  strips,  and  scrape  with  a  rather 
dull  knife.     Remove  all  soft  part  of  beef  from 

77 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

freshly  cut  side;  turn,  and  scrape  other  side. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  shape  into 
small  balls,  about  the  size  of  filberts,  using  as 
little  pressure  as  possible.  Drop  balls  into  a 
hot  blazer,  generously  sprinkled  with  salt,  shak- 
ing pan  constantly  until  the  entire  surface  of  the 
balls  is  seared.  Serve  on  oblong  pieces  of 
buttered  toast. 

Cecils,  I 

Brown  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter, 
add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  grad- 
ually one-half  cup  milk.  Then  add  one  cup 
raw  beef,  finely  chopped,  one-half  teaspoon 
lemon  juice,  a  few  drops  onion  juice,  and  salt 
and  pepper.  Chill  mixture,  shape  in  small  cakes, 
dip  in  crnmbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  and  saute  in 
hot  blaz  r,  using  enough  butter  to  prevent 
burning. 

Cecils,  II 

Season  one  cup  rare  roast  beef,  finely  chopped, 
with  salt,  pepper,  onion  juice,  and  Worcester- 
shire sauce.  Add  two  tablespoons  stale  bread- 
crumbs, one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  and  one 
egg  yolk,  slightly  beaten.  Shape  into  very 
small  croquettes,  roll  in  flour,  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  saut6  in  hot  blazer,  turning  often,  and  using 
enough  butter  to  prevent  burning. 

78 


Beef 

Hamburg  Steaks 

Chop  finely  one-half  pound  lean,  raw  beef, 
and  season  highly  with  salt,  pepper,  and  onion 
juice.  Shape  into  small  steaks,  using  as  little 
pressure  as  possible.  Put  into  a  hot  buttered 
blazer;  sear  on  one  side,  turn  and  sear  other 
side.  Cook  five  minutes,  turning  frequently. 
Spread  with  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter, 
which  has  been  creamed  and  mixed  with  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  salt  and  a  few  grains  pepper. 


Vienna  Steaks 

Chop  one-fourth  pound  each  of  raw,  lean 
beef  and  veal,  taking  care  to  remove  all  fat  and 
membrane.  Season  with  three-fourths  teaspoon 
salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  each  paprika  and 
celery  salt,  a  few  gratings  nutmeg,  one  tea- 
spoon lemon  juice,  and  a  few  drops  onion  juice. 
Add  one  egg,  well  beaten,  let  stand  several 
hours,  then  shape  into  small  steaks.  Put  into 
a  hot,  buttered  blazer,  sear  on  one  side,  turn 
and  sear  other  side.  Cook  six  to  eight  minutes, 
turning  frequently.  Cream  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  butter,  mix  with  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt  and  a  few  grains  pepper.  Spread 
on  steaks. 

79 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Broiled  Fillet  of  Beef 

Put  slices  of  tenderloin  steak,  cut  three- 
fourths  inch  thick,  into  a  hot  blazer  which  has 
been  rubbed  over  with  a  piece  of  beef  fat  Sear 
on  one  side,  turn  and  sear  other  side.  Cook 
four  minutes,  turning  frequently.  Spread  with 
soft  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Broiled  Fillet  of  Beef  with  Horse-radish 

Sauce 

Serve  broiled  fillet  of  beef  with  horse-radish 
sauce. 

Horse-radish  Sauce 

Beat  four  tablespoons  heavy  cream  until  stiff, 
add  three  tablespoons  grated  horse-radish  root, 
mixed  with  one  tablespoon  vinegar,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  salt,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne. 

Broiled  Steaks  ^  la  Creole 

Broil  tenderloin  steaks  and  serve  with  Creole 
sauce. 

Creole  Sauce 

Cook  two  tablespoons  butter  with  two  table- 
spoons onion  and  four  tablespoons  green  pep- 
per, both  finely  chopped,  five  minutes.  Add 
one  and  one-half  cups  canned  tomatoes,  drained 

80 


Beef 

from  their  liquor,  and  six  olives  from  which  the 
stones  have  been  removed ;  then  add  one  cup 
brown  sauce,  which  has  been  prepared  pre- 
viously. Bring  to  boiling  point,  and  add  salt, 
pepper,  and  sherry  wine. 

Dried  Beef  with  Cream  Sauce 

Remove  skin  from  one-fourth  pound  smoked, 
dried  beef;  separate  in  pieces,  cover  with  hot 
water,  let  stand  ten  minutes,  and  drain.  Melt 
two  tablespoons  butter,  add  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one 
cup  milk.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Re- 
heat beef  in  sauce,  and  pour  over  strips  of 
toasted  bread.  If  preferred  richer,  add  the  yolk 
of  one  egg  just  before  serving. 

Hash  Balls 

Chop  cold  cooked,  corned  beef  from  which 
the  skin,  gristle,  and  most  of  the  fat  have  been 
removed.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of  cold  boiled 
potatoes,  chopped  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pep- 
per, and  onion  juice.  Moisten  with  milk  or 
cream,  make  into  small  flat  cakes,  and  cook  in 
a  hot  buttered  blazer.  Brown  on  one  side,  turn, 
and  brown  other  side. 


8i 


LAMB  AND   MUTTON 


83 


*A  little  pot  IS  soon  hoi  * 


84 


X 

LAMB  AND  MUTTON 

Lamb  Chops,  Pan  Broiled 

Wipe  chops,  and  trim  off  superfluous  fat. 
Rub  over  the  blazer  with  some  of  the  fat.  Put 
chops  in  blazer,  sear  on  one  side,  turn  and  sear 
other  side.  Cook  from  six  to  eight  minutes, 
turning  occasionally.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  when  half  cooked.  Drain  and  spread 
with  soft  butter. 

Breaded   Chops 

Prepare  chops  as  for  Pan  Broiled  Chops. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  crumbs, 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  saute  from  six  to  eight 
minutes  in  a  small  quantity  of  hot  fat.  Serve 
with  tomato  sauce. 

Hashed   Mutton 

Cook  two  tablespoons  butter  with  one  table- 
spoon finely  chopped  onion,  five  minutes.  Add 
two  tablespoons  flour,   and  pour  on  gradually 

85 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

one  cup  stock.  Add  one  cup  cold  chopped, 
cooked  mutton,  one-half  cup  cold  boiled  pota- 
toes, cut  in  dice,  and  one  tomato,  skinned  and 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  celery  salt ;  cover  and  cook  over  hot  water, 
ten  minutes. 

Minced   Lamb 

Chop  remnants  of  cold  roast  lamb;  there 
should  be  one  cup.  Put  two  tablespoons  butter 
in  hot  blazer,  add  lamb,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  celery  salt,  and  dredge  thoroughly 
w^ith  flour;  then  add  enough  stock  or  water  to 
moisten.  Serve  on  small  slices  of  buttered 
toast. 

Lamb    Collops   with   Tomato   Sauce 

Take  small,  thick  pieces  of  roast  lamb  or 
boiled  mutton.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  and  saute  in  a 
hot  blazer,  using  enough  butter  to  prevent 
burning.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Blanquette   of   Lamb 

Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three 
tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  two- 
thirds  cup  each  milk  and  white  stock.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  three-fourths  tablespoon 

86 


Lamb  and  Mutton 

mushroom  catsup.  Cut  cold  ,  roast  lamb  in 
strips  or  cubes  (there  should  be  one  and  one- 
half  cups)  and  reheat  in  sauce.  Serve  with 
entire  wheat  bread  sandwiches. 

Mutton   Ragout 

Beat  currant  jelly,  that  it  may  be  easily  meas- 
ured. Put  three  tablespoons  jelly  in  hot  blazer, 
add  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  two  table- 
spoons butter.  When  butter  is  melted,  reheat 
thin  slices  of  cold  boiled  mutton  in  sauce. 
Season  with  salt  and  paprika. 

Mock   Terrapin 

Mash  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half 
teaspoon  mixed  mustard,  and  one-eighth  tea- 
spoon paprika.  Add  one  cup  chopped,  cooked 
mutton  and  one-half  cup  cream.  Put  into  a 
hot  blazer,  and  when  thoroughly  heated  add  two 
tablespoons  sherry  wine.     Serve  on  toast. 

Mutton  with   Currant  Jelly   Sauce 

Brown  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  three 
tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika, 
and  when  well  browned  pour  on  gradually  one 
cup  brown  stock.     Add  one-third  cup  currant 

87 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Jelly  and  six  slices  of  cold  cooked  mutton. 
When  meat  is  heated,  add  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  sherry  wine. 

Lamb,   Sauce  Piquante 

Cook  three  tablespoons  butter  with  one-half 
shallot,  finely  chopped,  five  minutes.  Add  four 
tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one 
and  one-half  cups  brown  stock.  Add  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one^eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  one- 
half  tablespoon  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  capers, 
and  six  sliced,  canned  mushrooms.  Reheat 
slices  of  cold  cooked  mutton  in  sauce. 

Salmi   of  Lamb 

Cook  two  tablespoons  butter,  with  one-half 
tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  five  minutes. 
Add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and  cook  until 
well  browned,  then  pour  on  gradually  one  cup 
brown  stock.  Season  with  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  and  one  tea- 
spoon Worcestershire,  Harvey,  or  Elizabeth 
sauce.  Reheat  slices  of  cold  roast  lamb  in 
sauce.  This  dish  is  greatly  improved  by  the 
addition  of  one-third  cup  mushrooms,  cut  in 
quarters,  or  ten  olives  from  which  the  stones 
have  been  removed. 


SS 


CHICKEN 


89 


There  V  no  want  of  meat ^  sir ; 

Portly  and  curious  viands  are  prepared^ 

To  please  all  kinas  of  appetite 

Massinger 


90 


XI 

CHICKEN 

Creamed   Chicken  and  Peas 

Melt  four  tablespoons  butter,  add  five  table- 
spoons flour,  mixed  with  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper.  Pour  on 
gradually  one  and  three-fourths  cups  milk. 
When  sauce  thickens,  add  one  and  one-half 
cups  cold  boiled  fowl,  cut  in  dice,  and  two- 
thirds  cup  canned  peas,  drained  and  rinsed. 

Chicken  and  Oysters,  k  la  M6tropole 

Melt  four  tablespoons  butter,  and  add  four 
tablespoons  flour,  mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon 
salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper.  Pour  on 
gradually  one  and  three-fourths  cups  milk, 
then  add  two  cups  cold  boiled  fowl,  cut  in 
dice,  and  one  pint  oysters,  cleaned  and  drained. 
Cook  until  oysters  are  plump.  Serve  on  zephy- 
rettes,  and  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  celery. 

Chicken   Hollandaise 

Cook  three  tablespoons  butter  with  one  tea- 
spoon finely  chopped  onion,  until  yellow;   add 

91 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

one  tablespoon  cornstarch,  and  pour  on  gradu 
ally  one  and  one-half  cups  chicken  stock.  Stir 
until  mixture  thickens  slightly,  then  add  one- 
half  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  three-fourths  tea- 
spoon salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  one-half 
cup  finely  chopped  celery,  and  one  and  one- 
half  cups  chopped,  cooked  chicken.  When 
thoroughly  heated,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  and  cook  one  minute.  Serve  with  buttered 
Graham  toast. 

Chicken  with  Tomatoes 

Cook  four  tablespoons  butter,  with  one-half 
shallot,  finely  chopped,  five  minutes.  Add  five 
tablespoons  flour,  and  stir  until  slightly  browned. 
Pour  on  gradually  three-fourths  cup  each 
chicken  stock  and  stewed  and  strained  toma- 
toes. Add  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika. 
Reheat  one  and  one-half  cups  cold  boiled  fowl, 
:ut  in  cubes  in  the  sauce. 

Chicken  i  la  Reine 

Cream  two  tablespoons  butter  and  add  the 
yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  rubbed  to  a 
paste.  Soak  one-fourth  cup  cracker  crumbs  in 
one-fourth  cup  milk  and  add  to  the  egg  mix- 
ture.    Pour  on  gradually  one  cup  hot  chicken 

92 


Chicken 

stock,  then  add  one  cup  cooked  chicken,  finely 
cut.  Season  with  salt,  paprika,  and  celery  salt. 
Serve  on  toast. 

Minced  Chicken  with  Green  Peppers 

Boil  two  green  peppers  ten  minutes,  remove 
seeds,  and  cut  in  small  strips.  Mix  with  two 
cups  cold  cooked  fowl,  cut  in  dice.  Melt  three 
tablespoons  butter,  add  three  tablespoons  flour, 
and  pour  on  gradually  one  and  one-third  cups 
chicken  stock.  Add  chicken  and  peppers. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  on 
circular  pieces  of  toast. 

Devilled  Bones 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  one  table- 
spoon each  Chili  sauce,  Worcestershire  sauce, 
and  walnut  catsup,  one  teaspoon  made  mustard, 
and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Cut  four  small 
gashes  in  the  drumsticks,  second  joints,  and 
wings  of  a  cooked  chicken.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  cook  in  the 
seasoned  butter  until  well  browned.  Add  one- 
half  cup  stock,  simmer  five  minutes,  and  sprinkle 
with  finely  chopped  parsley. 

India   Curry 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  and  add  the 
breast  and  second  joints  of  a  cooked  chicken. 

93 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

cut  in  small  pieces.  When  chicken  is  thoroughly 
heated  remove,  and  in  the  same  dish  make  the 
following  sauce.  Cook  two  tablespoons  butter 
with  one-half  small  onion,  finely  chopped,  one 
clove  garhc,  finely  chopped,  and  three-fourths 
teaspoon  grated  ginger  root,  five  minutes.  Add 
two  tablespoons  cornstarch  mixed  with  one 
tablespoon  curry  powder.  Grate  a  cocoanut 
and  add  two  cups  milk,  let  stand  one  hour,  and 
drain  through  cheese-cloth.  Add  milk  thus 
obtained  to  butter  and  cornstarch  mixture  to 
complete  sauce.  Reheat  chicken  in  sauce. 
Cocoanuts  often  may  be  bought  of  a  caterer, 
who  will  prepare  them  as  desired.  One  is  well 
repaid  for  the  time  spent  in  preparing  this  dish. 

Sauted  Chickens*  Livers 

Cut  one  slice  bacon  in  small  pieces,  and  cook 
with  two  tablespoons  butter,  five  minutes.  Re- 
move bacon,  add  one  shallot,  finely  chopped, 
and  fry  five  minutes;  then  add  six  chickens' 
livers  cleaned  and  separated,  and  cook  five  min- 
utes. Add  two  tablespoons  flour,  mix  thor- 
oughly, then  add  one  cup  brown  stock,  one  tea- 
spoon lemon  juice,  and  one-fourth  cup  sliced 
mushrooms.  Cook  two  minutes,  and  sprinkle 
with  finely  chopped  parsley.  In  cleaning  livers 
carefully  remove  gall  bladder. 

94 


Chicken 

Chickens'  Livers  with   Curry 

Clean  and  separate  six  chickens*  livers.  Dip 
in  seasoned  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  and  saute 
in  butter.  Remove  livers,  and  to  fat  in  blazer 
add  two  tablespoons  butter  and  one-half  table- 
spoon finely  chopped  onion ;  cook  five  minutes. 
Add  three  tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  one-half 
teaspoon  curry  powder,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika.  Strain 
sauce  over  livers. 

Chickens'   Livers  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Saute  chickens'  livers,  and  serve  with  tomato 
sauce. 

Tomato   Sauce 

Brown  two  tablespoons  butter  with  one-half 
tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  two  cloves,  a 
bit  of  bay  leaf,  and  a  sprig  of  parsley.  Add 
three  tablespoons  flour  and  continue  browning. 
Pour  on  gradually  one-half  cup  each  stock  and 
stewed  and  strained  tomatoes.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne. 
Strain  before  serving. 

Chickens'  Livers  with  Bacon 

Clean  livers,  separate  into  six  pieces,  and 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.   Wrap  each  piece 

95 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

separately  in  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  and  fasten 
with  a  small  wooden  skewer.  Put  into  a  hot 
blazer  and  cook  until  bacon  is  brown,  turning 
frequently  and  removing  some  of  the  fat  if 
necessary. 

Chickens'  Livers  with  Madeira  Sauce 

Clean  and  separate  livers,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  saute  in 
butter.  Brown  two  tablespoons  butter,  add 
three  tablespoons  flour,  and  when  well  browned 
pour  on  gradually  one  cup  brown  stock.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper.  Reheat  livers  in 
sauce,  and  add  two  tablespoons  Madeira  wine. 

Chickens'  Livers  with  Olive  Sauce 

Prepare  livers  same  as  Chickens'  Livers  with 
Madeira  Sauce.  Brown  two  tablespoons  butter, 
add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and  when  well 
browned  pour  on  gradually  one  cup  highly 
seasoned  brown  stock.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  add  twelve  olives,  from  which  the  stones 
have  been  removed,  and  cook  three  minutes. 
Pour  around  livers. 


96 


SWEETBREADS 


97 


Not  to  know  me  argues  yourself  unknown 

MlLTO» 


oS 


XII 

SWEETBREADS 

Creamed  Sweetbreada 

Remove  tubes  and  membrane  fronts  one  pair 
sweetbreads,  clean  and  parboil  in  boUing,  salted, 
acidulated  water,  twenty  minutes ;  allowing  one- 
half  tablespoon  each  salt,  and  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice,  to  each  pair  sweetbreads.  Drain  and 
plunge  into  cold  water;  as  soon  as  cool,  re- 
move from  water  and  cut  in  one-half  inch  cubes. 
Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  flour,  mixed  with  one-fourth 
teaspoon  salt  and  a  few  grains  of  pepper.  Pour 
on  gradually  one  cup  milk,  then  reheat  sweet- 
breads in  sauce. 

Creamed  Sweetbreads  and  Chicken 

Prepare  same  as  Creamed  Sweetbreads,  using 
equal  parts  of  cold  cooked  chicken,  cut  in  dice, 
and  sweetbreads,  cut  in  dice. 

99 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Sweetbreads  k  la  Poulette 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  table- 
spoons flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one-half 
cup  each  chicken  stock  and  milk.  Reheat 
sweetbreads,  cut  in  dice,  in  sauce.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  just  before  serving  add 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a  slight  grating  of 
nutmeg. 

Sweetbreads  with   Mushrooms 

Parboil  one  pair  sweetbreads  and  cut  in  dice. 
Cook  two  tablespoons  chopped  mushrooms  in 
three  tablespoons  butter,  five  minutes.  Add 
two  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour,  mixed  with 
one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon 
paprika,  and  pour  on  gradually  one  cup  milk 
and  one-fourth  cup  mushroom  liquor.  Add  the 
sweetbread  dice  and  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice. 
Just  before  serving,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
and  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Sweetbreads  with  Peas 

Parboil  one  pair  sweetbreads  and  cut  in 
cubes.  Drain  three-fourths  cup  canned  peas 
from  their  liquor,  rinse,  and  add  to  sweetbreads. 
Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  table- 
spoons flour,  mixed  with  three-fourths  teaspoon 
salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika.     Pour  on 

lOO 


Sweetbreads 

gradually  one  cup  milk.  Reheat  sweetbreads 
and  peas  in  sauce,  and  just  before  serving  add 
one-half  cup  cream. 

Sweetbreads,  Spanish  Style 

Parboil  one  pair  sweetbreads,  and  cut  in  slices. 
Cook  two  tablespoons  butter,  with  one-half 
shallot  finely  chopped,  one-fourth  green  pepper, 
freed  from  seeds  and  finely  chopped,  and  two 
tomatoes,  skinned  and  cut  in  pieces,  ten  minutes. 
Add  one  cup  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  in  cubes, 
and  the  sweetbreads.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper. 

Sweetbreads  and  Bacon 

Cut  thin  slices  of  bacon  in  strips.  Put  into  a 
hot  blazer,  and  fry  until  brown.  Remove  bacon, 
and  use  fat  in  pan  for  sauteing  sweetbreads. 
Parboil  sweetbreads,  and  cut  in  one-third  inch 
slices.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in 
crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  and  saute  until  deli^ 
cately  browned.     Drain  and  serve  with  bacon. 

Sweetbreads  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Parboil  sweetbreads,  cut  in  one-third  inch 
slices,  and  dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs. 
Put  into  a  hot,  buttered  blazer,  and  saute  until 
delicately  browned,  using  enough  butter  to  pre- 
vent burning.     Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

lOI 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Tomato  Sauce 

Cook  one  cup  canned  tomatoes  with  one  tea- 
spoon sugar,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  and  a 
bit  of  bay  leaf,  five  minutes.  Strain  and  add 
one-half  cup  brown  stock.  Brown  two  table- 
spoons butter,  add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and 
pour  on  gradually  the  liquid.     Season  with  salt 

Sweetbreads  with  Asparagus  Tips 

Prepare  and  saut6  one  pair  sweetbreads.  Melt 
two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  tablespoons 
flour  mixed  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt  and 
a  few  grains  of  pepper.  Pour  on  gradually  one 
cup  milk,  then  add  one  cup  asparagus  tips, 
rinsed  and  drained.  Pour  around  sweetbreads 
just  before  serving. 

Sweetbreads,  Olive  Sauce 

Prepare  and  saut6  one  pair  sweetbreads. 
Cook  two  tablespoons  butter  with  one  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  onion,  until  slightly  browned. 
Add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and  cook  until 
well  browned.  Pour  on  gradually  one  cup 
brown  stock,  then  add  one  dozen  olives  from 
which  the  stones  have  been  removed.  Cook 
three  minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
pour  around  sweetbreads. 

1 02 


WITH  THE  EPICURE 


f»3 


Not  all  on  books  their  criticism  waste  : 
The  genitis  of  a  dish  some  justly  taste ^ 
And  eat  their  way  to  fame 

Young 


104. 


XIII 

WITH    THE   EPICURE 

Stewed  Frogs'  Legs 

Clean  and  trim  one  dozen  frogs'  hind  legs. 
Melt  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter,  add 
frogs'  legs,  and  cook  five  minutes.  Dredge 
with  two  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  gradu- 
ally three-fourths  cup  chicken  stock  ;  cover, 
and  simmer  twelve  minutes.  Add  one-fourth 
cup  cream,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Fried  Frogs'  Legs 

Clean  and  trim  one  dozen  frogs'  hind  legs. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  crumbs, 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  saute  in  a  hot  blazer,  using 
enough  butter  to  prevent  burning.  Do  not 
attempt  to  cook  too  many  at  a  time,  as  they 
should  be  well  browned.  Serve  with  Sauce 
Tartare. 

Stewed  Lambs'  Kidneys 

Soak  in  cold  water,  pare,  remove  fat  from 
centres,  and  cut  in  slices  six  kidneys;  sprinkle 

1^5 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  two  tablespoons 
butter,  add  kidneys,  and  cook  eight  minutes. 
Dredge  thoroughly  with  flour,  pour  on  gradu- 
ally two-thirds  cup  water  or  brown  stock,  and 
cook  six  minutes.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
a  few  drops  onion  juice  and  Worcestershire 
sauce. 

Lambs'  Kidneys,  Madeira  Sauce 

Prepare  kidneys  as  for  stewed  kidneys. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  flour,  and 
saut6  in  a  hot  blazer,  using  enough  butter  to  pre- 
vent burning.  Cook  two  tablespoons  butter 
with  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion, 
until  slightly  browned;  add  four  tablespoons 
flour,  and  cook  until  well  browned ;  then  pour 
on  gradually  one  and  one-half  cups  brown  stock. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  strain,  add  kid- 
neys and  one  tablespoon  Madeira  wine. 

Kidney  Toast 

Soak  in  cold  water,  pare,  remove  fat  from 
centres,  and  chop  four  lambs*  kidneys.  Cook 
three  tablespoons  butter  with  one-half  table- 
spoon finely  chopped  onion  and  one  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  parsley,  five  minutes.  Add 
kidneys,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  one-half 
tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  one  tea- 

io6 


With  the  Epicure 

spoon  lemon  juice.  Dredge  with  one  table- 
spoon flour,  stir  until  well  mixed,  and  add 
gradually  one-half  cup  stock.  When  thoroughly 
heated  add  four  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  and 
as  soon  as  cheese  has  melted  serve  on  pieces  of 
toast 

Calf's  Brains  with  Scrambled  Eggs 

Prepare  brains  for  subsequent  cooking  same 
as  sweetbreads  are  prepared,  then  separate  into 
pieces.     Add  to  scrambled  eggs. 

Calf's  Brains,  Vinaigrette  Sauce 

Prepare  brains  same  as  sweetbreads,  reheat 
in  boiling  water,  drain,  and  separate  into  pieces. 
Mix  three  tablespoons  olive  oil,  one  tablespoon 
vinegar,  one  teaspoon  each  grated  onion, 
chopped  parsley,  and  chopped  capers,  and 
one-fourth  teaspoon  each  salt  and  pepper. 
Pour  sauce  over  brains. 

Fried  Calf's  Brains,  Sauce  Tartare 

Prepare  brains  same  as  sweetbreads,  and  cut 
in  four  pieces.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
roll  in  flour,  dip  in  egg  and  stale  bread  crumbs, 
and  saut6,  using  enough  butter  to  prevent  burn- 
ing.    Serve  with  Sauce  Tartare. 

107 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Tripe  in  Batter 

Wipe  tripe  and  cut  in  pieces  for  serving, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dip  in  batter 
made  of  one  cup  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  one-half  cup  cold  water,  one  egg  well 
beaten,  and  one  teaspoon  olive  oil  or  melted 
butter.  Saut6  in  a  small  quantity  of  hot  fat. 
In  tripe  recipes  use  fresh  honeycomb  tripe, 
unless  otherwise  specified. 

Fried  Tripe 

Wipe  tripe  and  cut  in  pieces  for  serving. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  flour,  egg, 
and  crumbs,  and  saut6  in  a  small  quantity  of 
hot  fat  until  delicately  browned. 

Tripe  with  Bacon 

Cut  slices  of  bacon  in  strips,  and  fry  until 
crisp  ;  then  remove  bacon.  Wipe  pickled  tripe 
and  cut  in  pieces  for  serving.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  corn  meal,  and  saut6  in 
bacon  fat.     Serve  with  the  crisp  bacon. 

Lyonnaise  Tripe 

Wipe  tripe  and  cut  in  pieces  two  inches  long 
by  one  and  one-half  inches  wide ;  there  should 
be  three  cups.     Put  in  blazer,  cover,  let  stand 

io8 


With  the  Epicure 

one  minute,  that  some  of  the  moisture  may  be 
withdrawn,  and  drain.  Cook  two  tablespoons 
butter  with  one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion, 
until  yellow,  add  tripe  and  cook  eight  minutes, 
using  more  butter  if  necessary.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped 
parsley. 

Tripe  k  la  Provengale 

To  Lyonnaise  Tripe  from  which  the  parsley 
has  been  omitted,  add  one  tablespoon  white 
wine.  Cook  until  quite  dry,  then  add  one-half 
cup  tomato  sauce. 

Tripe  k  la  Creole 

Cut  tripe  in  pieces  as  for  Lyonnaise  Tripe. 
Cook  two  tablespoons  butter  with  one  table- 
spoon finely  chopped  onion  and  one-eighth 
green  pepper,  finely  chopped,  five  minutes. 
Add  one  tablespoon  flour,  one-half  cup  stock, 
one-fourth  cup  drained  tomatoes,  and  one  fresh 
mushroom,  cut  in  slices.  Add  tripe  and  cook 
eight  minutes.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Tripe  k  la  Bordelaise 

Prepare  tripe  as  for  Lyonnaise  Tripe.  Cook 
two  tablespoons  butter  with  one  tablespoon 
chopped  onion,  five  minutes.     Add  tripe  and 

109 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

cook  until  slightly  browned.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  add  one  teaspoon  finely 
chopped  parsley.     Serve  with  sliced  tomatoes. 

Curried  Tripe 

Prepare  tripe  as  for  Lyonnaise  Tripe.  Cook 
three  tablespoons  butter  with  one  tablespoon 
finely  chopped  onion,  five  minutes.  Add  two 
tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  two  teaspoons 
curry  powder,  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt. 
Pour  on  gradually  three-fourths  cup  cream,  add 
the  tripe,  and  cook  eight  minutes. 

Shad  Roe,  Tomato  Sauce 

Cook  shad  roe  in  boiling,  salted,  acidulated 
water,  fifteen  minutes.  Drain,  cover  with  cold 
water,  let  stand  five  minutes,  again  drain,  and 
dry  in  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  flour,  egg  and  crumbs, 
and  saut6  in  butter.      Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

Shad  Roe  with  Bacon 

Trim  six  slices  of  bacon,  put  into  a  hot  blazer, 
and  cook  until  well  browned.  Cook  shad  roe 
as  for  Shad  Roe  with  Tomato  Sauce.  Rub  the 
yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  paste,  add 
one-half  teaspoon  mustard,  one-fourth  teaspoon 

no 


With  the  Epicure 


salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  three-fourths 
teaspoon  lemon  juice,  and  enough  thick  cream 
to  moisten.  Spread  roe  with  mixture,  roll  in 
flour,  egg  and  crumbs,  and  saut^  in  bacon  fat 
Serve  with  the  bacon. 

Ragout  of  Shad  Roe 

Clean  a  shad  roe  and  parboil  in  boiling, 
salted,  acidulated  water,  to  which  has  been 
added  a  slice  of  onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  and  a 
bit  of  bay  leaf.  Drain,  and  plunge  into  cold 
water;  remove  membrane  and  separate  roe  in 
pieces.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  roe, 
and,  when  thoroughly  heated,  one-third  cup 
cream.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  just 
before  serving  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly 
beaten;  if  preferred  more  highly  seasoned, 
add  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  one  table- 
spoon sherry  wine,  and  a  slight  grating  nutmeg. 

Mackerel  Roe  with  Mattre  d' Hotel  Butter 

Prepare  and  cook  mackerel  roe  same  as  shad 
roe.     Serve  with  Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter. 

Maltre  d^Hotel  Butter 

Cream  one-fourth  cup  butter,  add  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  and 

III 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

very  slowly  one-fourth  tablespoon  lemon  juice ; 
then  add  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
parsley. 

Mackerel  Roe,  Egg  Sauce 

Saut6  two  mackerel  roes.  Melt  two  table- 
spoons butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour,  and 
pour  on  gradually  one  cup  milk.  Season  with 
one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  cayenne, 
one  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  and  just  before  serv- 
ing add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly  beaten. 
Pour  over  roes. 

Venison  Steak 

Remove  fat  and  trim  slices  of  venison. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  into  a 
hot,  slightly  buttered  blazer.  Sear  on  one  side, 
turn  and  sear  other  side.  Cook  four  minutes, 
turning  frequently.  Spread  with  Maitre  d'H6tel 
Butter. 

Venison  Steak  with  Currant  Jelly 

Cook  venison  steak  and  remove  from  blazer. 
Melt  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter,  add 
a  few  grains  paprika  and  two  tablespoons  cur- 
rant jelly,  and  as  soon  as  jelly  has  melted  pour 
sauce  over  steak. 

112 


With  the  Epicure 

Venison  Cutlets  with  Apples 

Wipe,  core,  and  cut  in  one-half  inch  slices 
four  sour  apples.  Sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar  and  cover  with  port  wine ;  let  stand  one 
hour,  drain,  and  saute  in  butter.  Cut  venison 
steak  in  pieces  for  serving,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  cook  in  a  hot,  buttered  blazer, 
four  minutes.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter, 
add  wine  drained  from  apples  and  twelve  candied 
cherries  cut  in  halves.  Reheat  cutlets  in  sauce, 
and  serve  with  apples. 

Frankfort  Sausages 

Cook  four  sausages  in  boiling  water  to  cover, 
twenty  minutes ;  drain  and  cut  in  pieces.  Re- 
heat in  a  white  sauce  made  of  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  each  flour  and  butter  and  one  cup 
milk.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Fried  Sausages 

Cut  large  sausages  in  one-fourth  inch  slices, 
put  into  a  hot  blazer,  and  cook  until  heated  and 
slightly  browned  on  both  sides.  Spread  with 
Horse-radish  Mustard  and  serve  on  circular 
pieces  of  toast. 

113 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Bean  Rarebit 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  one 
cup  cold  baked  beans  mashed,  and  one-half 
cup  milk  or  cream.  When  thoroughly  heated, 
add  one-half  cup  grated  cheese.  Serve  on  toast 
or  zephyrettes. 

Ragout  of  Veal 

Cook  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter 
with  one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  canned 
mushrooms  and  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
onion,  three  minutes.  Add  three  tablespoons 
flour  and  cook  until  browned.  Pour  on  gradu- 
ally one  cup  brown  stock,  and  add  one  cup 
cold  roast  veal  cut  in  cubes.  Season  with  one- 
half  tablespoon  each  Worcestershire  sauce  and 
mushroom  catsup,  salt  and  pepper. 

Ragout  of   Duck 

Marinate  pieces  of  cold  roast  duck,  cut  in 
pieces  for  serving  with  French  dressing;  cover 
and  let  stand  one  hour.  Cook  three  table- 
spoons butter  with  one-half  shallot  finely 
chopped  until  brown.  Add  four  tablespoons 
flour,  and  when  well  browned  pour  on  gradually 
one  and  one-half  cups   brown   stock.     Season 

H4 


With  the  Epicure 

with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  cay- 
enne, one  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  and  two  table- 
spoons tomato  catsup.  Reheat  duck  in  sauce, 
and  add  three  tablespoons  port  wine  and  one- 
half  cup  canned  mushroom,  sliced  lengthwise. 

Salmi  of  Grouse 

Cut  cold  roast  grouse  in  pieces  for  serving. 
Melt  one-fourth  cup  butter,  add  one  tablespoon 
finely  chopped  onion,  a  stalk  of  celery,  two 
slices  carrot  cut  in  pieces,  and  two  tablespoons 
chopped,  lean  raw  ham.  Cook  until  butter  is 
browned,  then  add  one-fourth  cup  flour,  and 
when  well  browned  add  two  cups  brown  stock, 
a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  blade  of 
mace,  two  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and 
one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper.  Cook  five  min- 
utes, strain,  add  duck,  and  as  soon  as  duck  is 
heated  add  sherry  wine,  stoned  olives,  and 
mushrooms  cut  in  quarters. 


"5 


VEGETABLES 


117 


The  common  growth  of  Mother  Earth 
Suffices  m.' 


iVORDSWORTH 


iiS 


XIV 

VEGETABLES 

Hashed  Potatoes 

Cut  fat  salt  pork  in  small  cubes,  try  out,  and 
remove  scraps ;  there  should  be  about  one-third 
cup  fat.  Add  two  cups  cold  boiled  potatoes, 
finely  chopped,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper, 
and  salt  if  necessary.  Mix  potatoes  thoroughly 
with  fat;  cook  four  minutes,  stirring  constantly; 
\hen  let  stand  until  browned  underneath. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes 

Cook  one  ?'id  one-half  tablespoons  butter  and 
one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  five  min- 
utes. Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  two 
cups  cold  sliced  boiled  potatoes,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  until  potatoes  have 
absorbed  butter.  Add  butter  and  onion,  and 
when  well  mixed  add  one-half  tablespoon  finely 
chopped  parsley. 

Creamed  Peas 

Drain  one  can  small  peas,  rinse  thoroughly^ 
cover  with  boiling  water,  boil  one  minute,  and 

119 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

again  drain.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add 
the  peas,  and  cook  five  minutes.  Dredge  with 
one  tablespoon  flour  mixed  with  one  teaspoon 
sugar;  cook  one  minute.  Add  one-third  cup 
cream,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

String  Beans  a  la  Maitre  d' Hotel 

Drain  and  rinse  one  can  small  French  beans, 
and  cut  each  bean  in  three  pieces.  Put  into  a 
hot  blazer  and  heat  thoroughly,  adding  just 
enough  water  or  stock  to  prevent  beans  from 
burning.  Cream  two  and  one-half  tablespoons 
butter,  add  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  salt,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika. 
Add  prepared  butter  to  beans  and  sprinkle  with 
one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Smothered  Tomatoes 

Cut  three  small  tomatoes  in  halves  crosswise. 
Melt  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter  in  hot 
blazer,  arrange  tomatoes  in  pan,  skin  side  down, 
cover,  and  cook  until  soft.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Tomatoes  in  White  Sauce 

Wipe  and  peel  three  tomatoes  and  slice  cross- 
wise.    Sprinkle  with   salt   and   pepper,  roll  in 

120 


Vegetables 

flour  and  heat  in  blazer,  using  enough  butter  to 
prevent  burning.  Tomatoes  should  be  watched 
carefully  and  turned  during  heating.  Melt  two 
tablespoons  butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour 
mixed  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  and  pour 
on  gradually  one  and  one-third  cups  milk.  Stir 
constantly  until  sauce  thickens,  then  pour  over 
tomatoes. 

Devilled  Tomatoes 

Wipe,  peel,  and  slice  crosswise  three  toma- 
toes. Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  coat  with 
flour,  and  cook  in  a  hot  blazer  until  thoroughly 
heated,  using  enough  butter  to  prevent  burning. 
Cream  one-fourth  cup  butter,  add  two  teaspoons 
powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  cayenne,  the 
yolk  of  one  hard-boiled  egg,  one  egg  slightly 
beaten,  and  two  tablespoons  vinegar.  Cook 
over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly,  until  it 
thickens.     Pour  over  tomatoes. 


Tomato  Curry 

Cook  two  tablespoons  butter  with  one-half 
tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  until  yellow. 
Add  one  sour  apple,  pared,  cored,  and  cut  in 
small   pieces,    and    cook   eight   minutes.     Add 

121 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

one-half  cup  stock,  two  cups  canned  tomatoes, 
one-half  tablespoon  curry  powder,  one  teaspoon 
vinegar,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  As  soon 
as  boiling  point  is  reached,  add  one  cup  boiled 
rice,  and  cook  five  minutes. 


Curried  Vegetables 

Have  previously  prepared  one  cup  boiled 
potato  balls,  one  cup  boiled  carrots,  cut  in  dice, 
one-half  cup  boiled  turnips  cut  in  dice,  and 
one-half  cup  canned  peas,  rinsed  and  drained. 
Cook  two  slices  onion  in  three  tablespoons 
butter  five  minutes.  Remove  onion,  and  add 
three  tablespoons  flour,  one  teaspoon  curry 
powder,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
celery  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper,  and  one 
and  one-half  cups  milk.  Stir  until  smooth,  then 
reheat  vegetables  in  sauce. 

Corn  Fritters 

To  one  cup  finely  chopped  canned  corn  add 
one  egg,  well  beaten,  one-fourth  cup  flour,  and 
salt  and  pepper.  Drop  by  small  spoonfuls  in  a 
hot,  well-greased  blazer.  Brown  on  one  side, 
turn,  and  brown  on  the  other.  The  fritters 
should  be  about  the  size  of  large  oysters. 

122 


Vegetables 

Corn  and  Celery  Fritters 

Prepare  and  cook  same  as  Corn  Fritters,  sub- 
stituting one-half  cup  finely  chopped  celery  in 
place  of  one-half  of  the  corn. 

Rice  Fritters 

Wash  one-half  cup  rice,  add  to  one-half  cup 
boiling  water  with  one  teaspoon  salt.  Cover, 
and  steam  until  rice  has  absorbed  water ;  then 
add  one  cup  milk  and  steam  until  rice  is  soft. 
Add  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  one  tablespoon 
butter.  Spread  in  a  shallow  pan  to  cool.  The 
steaming  of  the  rice  should  be  accomplished 
over  the  kitchen  range.  Cut  in  small  squares, 
dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  and  saut6  in  a 
small  quantity  of  hot  fat.  Serve  with  currant 
jelly  to  accompany  cold  meat,  or  as  a  dessert, 
with  wine  sauce. 

Stewed  Mushrooms 

Wash  one-half  pound  mushrooms;  remove 
stems,  scrape  and  cut  in  pieces ;  peel  caps  and 
break  in  pieces.  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter 
in  blazer,  add  mushrooms,  and  cook  four  minutes. 
Dredge  with  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  one-half  cup 
stock,  and  cook  eight  minutes. 

123 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Stewed  Mushrooms  in  Cream 

Prepare  one-half  pound  mushrooms.  Melt  two 
tablespoons  butter,  add  mushrooms,  and  cook 
four  minutes.  Dredge  with  one  tablespoon  flour, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  paprika,  and  nutmeg,  add 
three-fourths  cup  cream,  and  cook  eight  minutes. 

Creamed  Mushrooms 

Prepare  one-half  pound  mushrooms,  and  cook 
in  two  tablespoons  butter,  eight  minutes.  Add 
one  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour,  and  when 
well  mixed  add  two-thirds  cup  cream.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  when  boiling  point  is 
reached  add  one-half  tablespoon  wine.  Serve 
on  toast. 

Smothered  Mushrooms 

Prepare  one-half  pound  mushrooms.  Melt 
three  tablespoons  butter,  add  mushrooms,  sprin- 
kle with  salt  and  paprika,  cover  and  cook  slowly 
fifteen  minutes.  Dredge  with  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  flour,  and  add  one-half  cup  chicken 
stock.  As  soon  as  heated,  add  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  a  slight  grating 
nutmeg. 

Saut6d  Mushrooms 

Prepare  one-half  pound  mushrooms.  Melt 
three     tablespoons     butter,    add     mushrooms, 

T24 


Vegetables 

dredged  with  flour,  a  few  drops  onion  juice,  salt, 
and  paprika;  cook  six  minutes,  then  add  one- 
third  cup  boiling  water  and  cook  four  minutes. 
Sprinkle  with  one-teaspoon  finely  chopped  par- 
sley and  serve  on  toast. 

Fried  Puff  Balls 

Clean  mushrooms ;  remove  outer  skin  and  cut 
in  one-half  inch  slices.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dip  in  flour,  egg,  and  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  olive  oil  or  clarified  butter  until  tender  and 
thoroughly  browned. 

Mushrooms  k  la  Sabine 

Prepare  one-half  pound  mushrooms ;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and 
cook  with  two  tablespoons  butter,  three  minutes. 
Make  one  and  one-fourth  cups  brown  sauce,  using 
two  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter,  three  table- 
spoons flour,  and  one  and  one-fourth  cups  brown 
stock.  Add  sauce  to  mushrooms ;  cook  eight 
minutes,  and  sprinkle  with  three  tablespoons 
grated  cheese.  Arrange  on  circular  pieces  of 
toast. 

Mushrooms  k  Tltalienne 

Cook  three  tablespoons  butter  with  one-half 
shallot,  finely  chopped,  five  minutes;  add  one- 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

half  pound  mushrooms,  and  cook  five  minutes. 
Then  add  one  and  one-half  cups  canned  toma- 
toes, drained  from  their  liquor,  and  two  table- 
spoons rolled  and  sifted  cracker  crumbs.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  just  before  serving 
add  one-third  cup  grated  cheese  and  one  and 
one-half  tablespoons  sherry  wine.  Serve  on 
toast. 

Mushrooms  with  Oysters 

Clean  twelve  large,  selected  mushrooms ;  re- 
move stems  and  discard;  peel  caps  and  saut6 
in  butter.  Clean  one  and  one-half  cups  oysters, 
and  cook  until  plump ;  drain,  and  reserve  liquor. 
Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  table- 
spoons flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  the  oyster 
liquor,  with  enough  water  to  make  one  cup 
liquid.  Add  oysters,  and  season  with  one-fourth 
teaspoon  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  each 
celery  salt  and  paprika.  As  soon  as  oysters 
are  reheated  pour  over  mushrooms. 

Mushrooms  and  Bacon 

Cut  five  thin  slices  of  bacon  into  strips ;  put 
into  a  hot  blazer,  and  cook  until  bacon  is  well 
browned,  then  remove  bacon.  Remove,  and 
peel  caps  from  eight  selected  mushrooms ;  saut^ 
in  bacon  fat,  and  serve  on  circular  pieces  of 

126 


Vegetables 

toast.  Season  with  salt,  paprika,  and  a  few 
drops  onion  juice ;  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped 
parsley. 

Mushrooms  with  Wine 

Prepare  one-half  pound  mushrooms;  add 
three  tablespoons  butter  and  one-third  cup  boil- 
ing water ;  cover  and  cook  slowly  twelve  min- 
utes. Add  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth 
teaspoon  paprika,  a  slight  grating  nutmeg,  and 
one-third  cup  claret  or  hot  sauterne.  Serve  on 
zephyrettes. 


127 


CHEESE  DISHES 


lao 


Now  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite^ 

And  health  on  both 

Shakespearb 


ISO 


XV 

CHEESE    DISHES 

Ale  Posset 

Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one  table- 
spoon flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  one  cup 
milk  mixed  with  one  egg,  slightly  beaten.  As 
soon  as  mixture  thickens,  add  gradually  one 
cup  ale,  stirring  constantly.  Season  with  salt 
and  cayenne.  This  is  a  popular  English  drink 
on  a  cold  winter's  night,  and  is  accompanied 
with  toasted  crackers  and  cheese. 

English  Monkey 

Soak  one  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  in  one  cup 
milk,  fifteen  minutes.  Melt  one  tablespoon 
butter,  add  one-half  cup  soft,  mild  cheese  cut  in 
small  pieces,  and  stir  until  cheese  has  melted ; 
then  add  soaked  crumbs,  and  just  before  serv- 
ing, one  egg,  slightly  beaten,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Pour  over 
toasted  crackers. 

131 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Welsh  Rarebit,  I 

Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one  tea- 
spoon cornstarch,  and  stir  until  well  mixed ;  then 
add  one-half  cup  thin  cream  and  cook  two  min- 
utes. Add  one-half  pound  soft,  mild  cheese, 
cut  in  small  pieces,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt, 
one-half  teaspoon  mustard,  and  a  few  grains 
cayenne.  Stir  until  cheese  has  melted,  and  mix- 
ture is  of  a  creamy  consistency.  Pour  over 
zephyrettes,  or  slices  of  bread  toasted  on  one 
side,  rarebit  being  poured  over  untoasted  side. 
Rarebits  may  be  cooked  directly  over  the  flame 
or  over  the  hot  water  pan.  An  unskilled  person 
would  better  select  the  latter. 

Welsh  Rarebit,  II 

Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one-fourth 
teaspoon  each  salt  and  paprika,  one-half  tea- 
spoon mustard  and  one-third  cup  ale  or  lager 
beer.  Stir  constantly,  and  when  well  heated  add 
one-half  pound  mild,  soft  cheese  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Stir  constantly  until  cheese  becomes 
melted,  and  mixture  is  of  a  creamy  consistency. 
With  some  cheese  it  is  necessary  to  use  one- 
half  cup  ale,  and  the  additional  quantity  may 
be  added  during  the  preparation  of  the  rarebit 
if  the  mixture  seems  of  too  thick  a  consistency. 

132 


Cheese  Dishes 

Many  prefer  the  addition  of  one  egg,  slightly 
beaten,  just  before  serving. 

Golden  Buck 

Serve  a  poached  egg  on  each  portion  of  welsh 
rarebit. 

Macaroni   Rarebit 

Follow  recipe  for  Welsh  Rarebit,  I.,  using 
Young  American  cheese.  Stir  in  one  cup  cold, 
cooked  macaroni,  broken  in  one-half  inch 
pieces. 

Oyster   Rarebit 

Clean,  parboil,  and  drain  one  pint  oysters,  re- 
serving the  liquor.  Remove  and  discard  tough 
muscles.  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
paprika,  and  pour  on  gradually  one-half  cup 
oyster  liquor.  When  heated,  add  one-half 
pound  soft,  mild  cheese  cut  in  small  pieces. 
Stir  until  mixture  is  smooth,  then  add  two  eggs, 
slightly  beaten,  and  the  oysters. 

Halibut   Rarebit 

Rub  over  the  inner  surface  of  the  chafing 
dish  with  a  clove  of  garlic  first  dipped  in  salt. 
Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one  tablespoon 

^33 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

cornstarch,  mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt 
and  one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika,  then  pour  on 
gradually  one-half  cup  each  milk  and  chicken 
stock.  Add  three-fourths  cup  soft,  mild  cheese 
cut  in  small  pieces,  and  one  cup  cold,  flaked, 
cooked  halibut.  As  soon  as  cheese  is  melted 
add  one  egg  slightly  beaten  and  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  sherry  wine.  Serve  on  slices 
of  toast. 

Cheese   Fritters 

Mix  four  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
with  two  tablespoons  stale  bread  crumbs.  Beat 
four  eggs  thoroughly  and  add  to  first  mixture. 
Season  with  salt  and  paprika.  Drop  from  tip 
of  spoon  in  small  cakes  on  a  hot,  buttered 
blazer.  Brown  on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  on 
the  other  side. 

Cheese  Boxes 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-third  inch  slices,  remove 
crusts,  and  cut  slices  in  pieces  three  by  one  and 
one-half  inches.  Remove  centres,  leaving  bread 
in  box-shaped  pieces.  Fit  in  each  box  a  slice 
of  mild  cheese,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  paprika, 
and  cover  with  a  thin  piece  of  bread  which  was 
removed  with  the  centre.  Saute  in  a  hot  blazer, 
using  enough  butter  to  prevent  burning. 


134 


RELISHES   AND   SVv^EETS 


1.15 


Who  pepper* d  the  highest  was  surest  to  please 

Goldsmith 

Nor  waste  tfieir  sweetness  in  the  desert  air 

Churchill 


136 


XVI 

RELISHES  AND  SWEETS 

Salted  Almonds 

Melt  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter  and 
add  one-fourth  pound  blanched  Jordan  almonds. 
Stir  constantly  and  cook  slowly  until  almonds 
are  delicately  browned.  Drain  on  brown  paper 
and  sprinkle  with  salt.  It  may  be  necessary  to 
remove  some  of  the  salt  by  wiping  the  nuts  with 
an  old  napkin. 

To  Blanch  Almonds 

Cover  almonds  with  boiling  water  and  let 
stand  two  minutes ;  drain,  put  into  cold  water, 
and  rub  off  skins.     Dry  between  towels. 

Devilled  Almonds 

Blanch  and  shred  two  ounces  almonds.  Cook 
until  brown,  using  enough  butter  to  prevent 
burning.  Mix  two  tablespoons  chopped  pickles, 
one  tablespoon  each  Chutney  and  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  few 
grains  cayenne.  Add  to  nuts,  and  serve  as 
soon  as  thoroughly  heated. 

137 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Devilled  Chestnuts 

Shell  one  cup  chestnuts  and  cut  in  thin  slices. 
Fry  until  well  browned,  using  enough  butter  to 
prevent  burning.     Season  with  Tabasco  sauce. 

Hamburg  Cream 

Mix  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one-half 
lemon ;  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten, 
mixed  with  one-half  cup  sugar,  and  cook  over 
hot  water  until  mixture  thickens.  Stir  in  the 
whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  small 
glasses,  chill,  and  serve  with  lady  fingers. 

Coffee  Souffl6 

Mix  one  and  one-half  cups  coffee  infusion  and 
one  cup  hot  milk,  in  which  one  tablespoon 
granulated  gelatine  has  been  dissolved.  Cook 
over  hot  water  until  thoroughly  scalded,  then 
add  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  slightly  beaten. 
Stir  until  mixture  thickens,  then  add  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Turn  into  small 
moulds,  previously  dipped  in  cold  water.  Chill, 
remove  from  moulds,  and  serve  with  sugar 
and  cream. 

138 


Relishes  and  Sweets 

Macaroon  Pudding 

Soak  twelve  macaroons  in  sherry  wine,  ten 
minutes.  Beat  two  eggs  slightly,  add  four  and 
one-half  tablespoons  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  and  one  cup  each  milk  and  thin  cream ; 
then  add  two  tablespoons  blanched  and  chopped 
almonds,  one-fourth  teaspoon  almond  extract, 
and  four  finely  pounded  macaroons.  Turn  mix- 
ture into  chafing  dish,  arrange  soaked  maca- 
roons on  top,  cover,  and  cook  over  hot  water 
thirty  minutes. 

Quick  Bavarian  Cream 

Mix  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one-half 
lemon,  one-half  cup  orange  juice,  one-half  cup 
sugar,  and  the  unbeaten  yolks  of  three  eggs. 
Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until 
mixture  thickens,  then  add  the  whites  of  two 
eggs,  well  beaten.  Remove  from  heat,  and  add 
one-half  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  soaked 
in  two  tablespoons  cold  water.  Set  in  a  pan  of 
cold  water  to  cool,  stirring  occasionally  that 
mixture  may  be  smooth.  Line  individual  moulds 
with  lady  fingers,  fill  with  mixture,  and  chill. 

Fig  Cups 

Stuff  one-half  pound  washed  figs  with  chopped 
salted  almonds.     Put  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one 

139 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

teaspoon  lemon  juice,  and  one-half  cup  wine  in 
blazer;  when  heated  add  figs,  cover,  and  cook 
until  figs  are  tender,  turning  and  basting  often. 
Serve  with  lady  fingers. 

Peach  Canap6s 

Saute  circular  pieces  of  sponge  cake  in  butter 
until  delicately  browned.  Drain  canned  peaches, 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  a  few  drops  lemon 
juice,  and  a  slight  grating  nutmeg.  Melt  one 
tablespoon  butter,  add  peaches,  and  when  heated 
serve  on  cake. 

Bananas  Cooked  in  the  Skins 

Loosen  one  of  the  sections  of  skin  from  each 
banana.  Put  into  blazer,  cover,  and  let  cook 
until  skins  are  discolored  and  pulp  soft.  Re- 
move from  skins  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Serve 
with  lady  fingers. 

Saut6d  Bananas 

Remove  skins  from  three  bananas,  cut  in 
halves  lengthwise,  and  again  cut  in  halves  cross- 
wise. Put  one  tablespoon  butter  in  blazer;  when 
hot  add  bananas  and  cook  until  soft,  turning 
once.  Drain,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar, 
and  a  few  drops  lemon  juice;  orange  juice 
or  sherry  wine  may  be  used  if  preferred. 

140 


Relishes  and  Sweets 

SoufH6  au  Rhum 
Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  until  thick  and 
lemon-colored.  Add  three  tablespoons  pow- 
dered sugar  and  one  tablespoon  rum.  Beat  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  until  stiff  and  dry,  and  cut 
and  fold  into  the  mixture.  Grease  blazer  with 
clarified  butter,  pour  in  one-half  the  mixture 
and  brown  delicately.  Fold  and  turn  same  as 
an  omelet.  Care  should  be  taken  to  lift  the 
blazer  that  the  souffle  may  brown  evenly.  Pour 
in  remaining  mixture  and  proceed  as  before. 

Sicilian  Omelet 

Beat  three  eggs  slightly,  add  one  teaspoon 
sugar  and  a  few  grains  salt.  Grease  the  sides 
and  bottom  of  blazer,  using  one-half  tablespoon 
butter.  Strain  in  the  mixture  and  cook  until  of  a 
creamy  consistency,  using  a  spatula  to  scrape 
cooked  mixture  from  bottom  of  pan,  that  it 
may  mix  with  the  uncooked  part  and  thus  pre- 
vent any  part  from  being  overdone.  Loosen 
omelet  by  running  spatula  around  side  and  bot- 
tom of  pan.     Fold,  turn,  and  serve  with  Sicilian 

sauce. 

Sicilian  Sauce 

Beat  one-half  cup  heavy  cream,  add  one  table- 
spoon powdered  sugar,  one  tablespoon  currant 
jelly,  melted,  and  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
powdered  macaroons. 

141 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Mince  Pie 

Cook  one  and  one-half  cups  chopped  apple 
with  one  tablespoon  butter,  until  soft.  Add 
one-third  cup  each  molasses  and  cider;  then 
add  two-thirds  cup  sugar  mixed  with  one-fourth 
teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  clove,  and  nutmeg, 
and  one-eighth  teaspoon  mace.  Add  juice  and 
rind  of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoon  vinegar,  one- 
half  cup  cracker  crumbs,  one-third  cup  currants, 
one-third  cup  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  pieces, 
one-fourth  cup  citron,  cut  in  small  strips,  and 
salt  to  taste.  Heat  to  boiling  point,  add  three 
tablespoons  brandy,  and  serve  in  patty  shells. 

Slip  On 
Pour  welsh  rarebit  over  mince  pie. 


142 


CANDIES 


**i 


The  superfluous^  a  very  necessary  thing 

Voltaire 

Sweets  to  the  sweet  j  farewell ! 

Shakespeare 


»44 


XVII 

CANDIES 

Fudge 

Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one-half 
cup  milk  and  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar;  stir 
until  sufjar  is  dissolved,  then  add  five  table- 
spoons prepared  cocoa,  or  two  squares  unsweet- 
ened chocolate.  Stir  constantly  until  chocolate 
is  melted.  Heat  to  boiling  point  and  boil  twelve 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. Extinguish  flame,  add  one  teaspoon  vanilla, 
and  beat  until  the  mixture  is  creamy.  Pour  into 
a  buttered  pan,  cool,  and  mark  in  squares. 

Cocoanut  Cream  Candy 

Melt  two  teaspoons  butter,  add  one-half  cup 
milk  and  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar.  Heat  to 
boihng  point  and  boil  twelve  minutes,  stirring 
occasionally  to  prevent  burning.  Extinguish 
flame,  add  one-third  cup  shredded  cocoanut  and 
one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  until  the  mix- 
ture is  creamy.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan,  cool, 
and  mark  in  squares. 

U5 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

Lemon  Taffy 

Melt  three-fourths  tablespoon  butter,  and  add 
three-fourths  cup  each  molasses  and  brown 
sugar.  Heat  to  boiling  point,  add  one-eighth 
teaspoon  cream-of-tartar,  then  boil  twelve  min- 
utes, stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  burning. 
Extinguish  flame,  add  three-fourths  teaspoon 
lemon  extract,  and  beat  until  the  mixture  is 
creamy.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan,  cool,  and 
mark  in  squares. 

Peanut  Drops 

Make  same  as  Lemon  Taffy,  substituting  va- 
nilla for  lemon  extract,  and  adding  one-half  cup 
peanuts,  shelled  and  separated  in  halves.  Drop 
by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  paper. 


Maple  Walnuts 

Break  three-fourths  pound  soft  maple  sugar 
in  pieces.  Put  in  blazer  with  three  tablespoons 
boiling  water  and  one-half  cup  thin  cream. 
Heat  to  boiling  point  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 
Extinguish  flame,  add  one-half  cup  English  wal- 
nut meat,  broken  in  pieces,  and  beat  until  the 
mixture  is  creamy.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan, 
cool,  and  mark  in  squares, 

146 


Candies 

Sultana  Caramels 

Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  table- 
spoons molasses,  one-third  cup  milk,  and  one 
and  one-half  cups  sugar.  Heat  to  boiling  point 
and  boil  eight  minutes,  stirring  occasionally  to 
prevent  burning.  Add  four  tablespoons  pre- 
pared cocoa  or  one  and  one-half  squares  un- 
sweetened chocolate,  and  stir  until  chocolate  is 
melted;  then  boil  seven  minutes.  Extinguish 
flame,  add  one-third  cup  English  walnut  meat 
broken  in  pieces,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
Sultana  raisins,  and  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Beat  until  the  mixture  is  creamy,  pour  into  a 
buttered  pan,  cool,  and  mark  in  squares. 

Praulines 

Heat  one  cup  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup 
maple  syrup,  and  one-fourth  cup  cream  to  boil- 
ing point,  and  boil  until  a  soft  ball  may  be 
formed  when  mixture  is  tried  in  cold  water. 
Extinguish  flame,  and  beat  until  the  mixture 
is  creamy.  Add  one  cup  pecan  meat,  cut  in 
pieces,  and  drop  from  tip  of  spoon  in  small 
piles,  on  buttered  paper. 

Peppermints 

Put  one-half  cup  water  and  one  and  one-half 
cups  sugar  in  blazer,  and  stir  constantly  until 

147 


Chafing  Dish  Possibilities 

sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  ten  minutes.  Beat 
until  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  and  add  six 
drops  oil  of  peppermint.  Drop  from  tip  of 
spoon  on  buttered  paper,  working  rapidly. 
Should  mixture  become  too  stiff  to  drop,  add 
a  small  quantity  of  boiling  water. 

Checkermints 

Make  same  as  Peppermints,  adding  oil  of 
wintergreen  instead  of  oil  of  peppermint. 

Butter  Taffy 

Boil  together  one  and  one-half  cups  light 
brown  sugar,  three  tablespoons  molasses,  one 
and  one-half  tablespoons  each  vinegar  and  hot 
water,  and  one  half  teaspoon  salt.  Cook  until 
brittle  when  tried  in  cold  w^ater.  Add  three 
tablespoons  butter,  cook  one  minute,  and  add 
one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan, 
cool,  and  mark  in  squares. 

Peanut  Nougat 

Put  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar  in  blazer,  and 
stir  constantly  until  melted.  Extinguish  flame, 
add  one  cup  peanut  meat,  chopped  and  sprin- 
kled with  salt.  Pour  into  a  hot  buttered  pan, 
that  mixture  may  spread  easily.  Cool  slightly, 
and  mark  in  squares 

T4S 


Candies 

Nut  Bar 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  shallow  pan 
with  one  and  one-third  cups  nut  meat,  broken 
in  pieces.  Melt  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar 
and  pour  over  the  nut  meat  Cool  slightly,  and 
mark  in  bars. 

French  Nougat 

Put  one  cup  sugar  in  blazer,  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  melted,  then  add  one-fourth  pound 
Jordan  almonds,  blanched  and  finely  chopped. 
Extinguish  flame,  add  three  tablespoons  pre- 
pared cocoa,  and  stir  until  well  mixed.  Drop 
by  spoonfuls  on  a  buttered  paper. 


I4Q 


INDEX 


INDEX 

FACB 

Ale  Posset 131 

Almonds,  Devilled 137 

Salted , 137 

Anchovy  Toast 28 

Bacon,  Mushrooms,  anc^ 126 

Bananas,  Cooked  in  Skins 140 

Sauted 140 

Bavarian  Cream 139 

Bean  Rarebit 114 

Beans,  String,  k  la  Maitre  d*H6tel 120 

Beef,  Balls 77 

Cecils,  1 78 

Cecils,  II yS 

Dried,  with  Cream  Sauce      .    •    . 81 

Fillets  of,  Broiled 80 

Fillets  of.  Horse-radish  Sauce 80 

Hamburg  Steaks 79 

Hash  Balls 81 

Rechauffe  of 77 

Steak  k  la  Creole 80 

Vienna  Steaks 79 

Warmed  over - .  77 

Blanquette  of  Lamb 86 

Bones,  Devilled 93 

Breaded  Chops 85 

Brewis 29 

Buttered  Eggs 34 

Buttered  Lobster 55 

153 


Index 

PAGE 

Calf's  Brains,  Fried,  Sauce  Tartare 107 

Scrambled  Eggs,  with 107 

Vinaigrette  Sauce 107 

Canapes,  Peach 140 

Candies,  Butter  Taffy 148 

Checkermints      .    •    , 148 

Cocoanut  Cream 145 

French  Nougat 149 

Fudge 145 

Lemon  Taffy  ....         146 

Maple  Walnuts 146 

Nut  Bar 149 

Peanut  Drops 146 

Peanut  Nougat 148 

Peppermints 147 

Praulines    .     .     .    s 147 

Sultana  Caramels 147 

Celeried  Oysters 47 

Cheese  Boxes 134 

Fritters 134 

Omelet 41 

Chestnuts,  Devilled 138 

Chicken,  a  la  Reine 92 

Bones,  Devilled 93 

Creamed,  with  Peas 91 

HoUandaise 91 

India  Curry 93 

Minced,  with  Green  Peppers 93 

Oysters  a  la  Metropole,  and 91 

Tomatoes,  with 92 

Chickens'  Livers,  Bacon,  with 95 

Curry,  with 95 

Madeira  Sauce,  with 96 

Olive  Sauce 96 

Sauted 94 

Tomato  Sauce 95 

Clams  k  la  Newburg 6^ 


Index 

PAGB 

Codfish,  Cheese 72 

Creamed 72 

Coffee  Souffle , i-^g 

Corn  and  Celery  Fritters 123 

Corn  Fritters 122 

Crabs,  k  la  Richmond 64 

Creamed 6^ 

Devilled 64 

Duck,  Ragout  of 114 

Egg  SouFFLi^D 35 

Timbales 41 

Toast 28 

Eggs,  a  la  Bechamel 39 

k  la  Caracas ^7 

a  la  Creole 37 

a  la  Finoise 33 

h  1  'Espagnole ♦ 38 

k  la  Soubise 39 

k  la  Suisse 34 

au  Beurre  Noir 35 

Boiled 23 

Buttered 34 

Curried 39 

Fricasseed 40 

Omelet,  Cheese 41 

Oyster 42 

Plain 41 

Sicilian 141 

Spanish 42 

Poached 33 

Scotch  Woodcock 40 

Scrambled 35 

Anchovy  Toast,  with 36 

Asparagus  Tips,  with 36 

Cheese,  with •    •    •  2^ 


Index 

PAGB 

Eggs,  Scrambled,  Mushrooms  with 36 

Tomatoes,  with 36 

Steamed 40 

Venetian 38 

English  Monkey  ...» 131 

Fancy  Roast 45 

Fig  Cups 139 

Fish,  h,  la  Proven9ale , 71 

Cod,  Cheese,  with 72 

Cod,  Creamed 72 

Salmon,  Creamed 71 

Salmon,  Sauted  Fillets  of 71 

Frankfort  Sausages 113 

Fritters,  Cheese    .     .     , 134 

Corn 122 

Corn  and  Celery ,    ...  123 

French , 29 

Rice 123 

Frogs'  Legs,  Fried 105 

Stewed 105 

Fruit  Canapes,  Peach 140 

Fudge   .  .  .  c 145 

German  Toast 28 

Golden  Buck 133 

Griddle  Cakes,  Entire  Wheat    . 29 

Grouse,  Salmi  of #.115 

Halibut  Rarebit 133 

Hamburg  Cream ,.    • 138 

Hamburg  Steak * 79 

Hash  Balls       81 

Hashed  Potatoes •  I19 

India  Curry qx 

156 


Index 

PAGB 

Kidney  Toast io6 

Kidneys,  Lambs*,  Madeira  Sauce  with to6 

Stewed 105 

Lamb,  Blanquette  of 86 

Chops,  Breaded 85 

Chops,  Pan  Broiled 85 

Collops,  Tomato  Sauce 86 

Minced 86 

Salmi  of 88 

Sauce  Piquante,  with 88 

Lemon  Taffy 146 

Livers,  Chickens',  Bacon,  with 95 

Curry,  with 95 

Madeira  Sauce 96 

Olive  Sauce 96 

Sauted 94 

Tomato  Sauce 95 

Lobster,  k  TAmericaine 58 

a  la  Bechamel     .     .    .    • 57 

a  la  Delmonico 58 

k  la  Newburg 59 

k  la  Poulette 58 

Buttered 55 

Creamed 56 

Curried,  I 56 

Curried,  II ,.•....  56 

Devilled 55 

Fricasseed 57 

Mushrooms,  with 59 

Sauted 55 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes 119 

Macaroni  Rarebit J33 

Macaroon  Pudding 139 

Mackerel  Roe,  Egg  Sauce .112 

Mackerel  Roe,  Maitre  d'H6tel  Butter ill 

IS7 


Index 

PAGE 

Milk  Toast       27 

Mince  Pie 142 

Minced  Chicken  with  Green  Peppers     •••••••  93 

Minced  Lamb .    •    .  86 

Mock  Terrapin S7 

Mushrooms,  a  la  Sabine •••••  125 

a  ITtalienne •••••  125 

and  Bacon •«  126 

Creamed 124 

in  Cream • 124 

Oysters,  with 126 

Puff  Balls,  Fried 125 

Sauted 124 

Smothered 124 

Stewed       123 

with  Wine 127 

Mutton,  Currant  Jelly  Sauce,  with 87 

Hashed 85 

Ragout  of 87 

Nougat,  French 149 

Peanut ••• 148 

Omelet,  Cheese 41 

Oyster •    •    •    •    .  42 

Plain       41 

Sicilian       141 

Spanish ••.,  42 

Oysters,  k  la  Bechamel       50 

k  la  Creole •    •    •  51 

a  la  D'Uxelles 49 

k  la  Thorndike •    •    •    •    .  48 

Brown  Sauce,  in 47 

Celeried 47 

Creamed 46 

Curried •    .  50 

158 


Index 

FAGB 

Oysters,  Devilled,  I 48 

Devilled,  II.       •    • «    •    .  49 

Fancy  Roast 45 

Fricasseed •    •    •    .  40 

Grilled 45 

Panned 45 

Sauted 47 

Stewed 47 

Peanut  Drops      .....•• 146 

Nougat 148 

Peas,  Creamed , iig 

Peppermints 147 

Potatoes,  Hashed 119 

Lyonnaise 119 

Praulines 147 

Puff  Balls,  Fried 125 

Ragout,  Duck,  of      114 

Mutton,  of Zy 

Sardines,  of 73 

Shad  Roe,  of 1 1 1 

Veal,  of 114 

Rarebit,  Bean 114 

Halibut       133 

Macaroni 133 

Oyster 133 

Welsh,   1 132 

Welsh,  II 132 

Rechauffe,  Beef  of       -jj 

Rice  Fritters 123 

Salmi,  Grouse,  of 115 

Lamb,  of ••••••  88 

Salmon  (see  Fish), 

Salted  Almonds 137 

IS9 


Index 

PAGB 

Sardines,  Anchovy  Sauce,  with 73 

k  la  Hollandaise 73 

Devilled 74 

Grilled 72 

Ragout  of,  1 73 

Ragout  of,  II 73 

Sausages,  Frankfort 113 

Fried 113 

Scallops,  Devilled 65 

Fried 65 

Stewed 64 

Scotch  Woodcock 40 

Shad  Roe,  Bacon,  with no 

Ragout  of Ill 

Tomato  Sauce no 

Shrimps,  k  la  Bechamel 66 

Creamed,  with  Mushrooms 66 

Curried  Rice,  with 65 

Devilled 67 

Tomato  Sauce,  with 67 

Wiggle 66 

Sicilian  Omelet 141 

Slip  On 142 

Souffle  au  Rhum 141 

Coffee 138 

Souffled  Egg 35 

Spanish  Omelet 42 

Sultana  Caramels 147 

Sweetbreads,  a  la  Poulette 100 

Asparagus  Tips,  with 102 

Bacon  and loi 

Creamed 99 

Creamed  Chicken  with 99 

Mushrooms,  with 100 

Olive  Sauce 102 

Spanish  Style loi 

Tomatoes,  with loi 

160 


Index 

FAGB 

Toast,  Anchovy 28 

Egg 28 

German 28 

Kidney    •.<.,.•......•.,.  106 

Milk 27 

Tomato  Cream 27 

Tomatoes,  Curried , 121 

Devilled      » 121 

Smothered       120 

in  White  Sauce 120 

Timbales,  Egg 41 

Tripe,  a  la  Creole 109 

a  la  Bordelaise 109 

a  la  Proven9ale       109 

Bacon,  with 108 

Batter,  in 108 

Curried no 

Fried     .,.,,.,., 108 

Lyonnaise 108 

Veal,  Ragout  of 114 

Venison  Cutlets,  with  Apples •    .  113 

Steak 112 

Steak,  with  Currant  Jelly 112 

Vegetables,  Corn  Fritters •    .    .    •    •  122 

Corn  and  Celery  Fritters 123 

Curried 122 

Peas,  Creamed        . 119 

Potatoes,  Hashed        119 

Potatoes,  Lyonnaise 119 

String  Beans  a  la  Maitre  d'Hotel     .     ...  120 

Tomatoes 120 

Welsh  Rarebit,  1 132 

Welsh  Rarebit,  II 132 

vVigglc,  Shrimp ....•.«.  66 

161 


Date  Due 


}»f- 


oots-^^"* 


BOSTON 


COLLEGE 


I 


|»ffTlSSi574  5 


DOES  NOT  CIRCULATE 


c^B^^S^ti^m^^m 


'y'^\i-i&^\^.^ns^:' 


ms 


NOT 
or  CIRCULATE 


ATE 


BOSTON  COLLEGE  LIBRARY 

UNIVERSITY  HEIGHTS 
CHESTNUT  HILL.  MASS. 

Books  may  be  kept  for  two   weeks   and  may  be 
renewed  for  the  same  period,  unless  reserved. 

Two  cents  a  day  is   charged  for  each  book  kept 
overtime. 

If    you    cannot    find    what  you    want,  ask    the 
Librarian  who  will  be  glad  to  help  you. 

The   borrower  is  responsible  for  books  drawn 
on  his  card  and  for  all  fines  accruing  on  the  same. 


