The  Chapel  Hill 
COOK  BOOK 


1939 


rmikmj  rnllwtiott  rtf 
$c  Murium  Olnnk 


The 

Bank  of  Chapel  Hill 

Capital  ...  $  60,000.00 
Surplus  .   .   .  150,000.00 

Oldest  and  Strongest  Unit  Bank  in 
Orange  County 


Resources  Over  Three  Million  Dollars 


We  Earnestly  Solicit  Your  Banking  Business 
and  promise  you 
Every  Service  Consistent  with  Sound  Banking 

M.  C.  S.  NOBLE,  President  W.  E.  THOMPSON,  Cashier 

CLYDE  EUBANKS,  Vice-Pres.         J.  T.  GOBBEL,  Asst.  Cashier 
W.  O.  SPARROW,  Asst.  Cashier 

Member  Federal  Deposit  Insurance 
Corporation 


As  Independent 

GROCERS 


We  individually  choose  and  buy  the 
finest  foods,  and  offer  them  for  your 
approval  at  reasonable,  economical 
prices. 


Model  Market  and 
Grocery 

"Where  Service  Is  A  Saving" 

PHONES:    9831    -  9841 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 

Compiled  by 

The  Woman's  Auxiliary  of  the 
Presbyterian  Church 

Chapel  Hill,  N.  C. 


First  Printing,  1935 
Second  Printing,  1939 


Presses  of 
ORANGE  PRINTSHOP 

CHAPEL  HILL,  N.  C. 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


Compiled  by 

The  Woman's  Auxiliary  of  the 
Presbyterian  Church 

CHAPEL  HILL,  N.  C. 


Let  us  furnish  you  an  electric  range  to 
cook  with  and  a  Frigidaire  to  cool  with. 

Bennett  &  Blocksidge,  Inc. 

PHONE  6161 


"Say  it  with  Flowers" 

from 

CHAPEL  HILL  FLOWER  SHOP 

We  specialize  in  cut  flowers,  designs,  corsages,  and 
pot  plants. 

Novelties  Greeting  Cards 

PHONE  4851        —        —        —        —  6841 


EUBANKS  DRUG  COMPANY 

Dependable  Druggists 
Since  1892 


University  Hardware  Company 

ALL  KINDS  OF  HARDWARE 

Paints  and  Varnish 
And  Kitchen  Ware 

CHAPEL  HILL,  N.  C.  PHONE  6981 


Table  of  Contents 


Page 

Breads    41 

Cakes   !   62 

Candies    87 

Cookies    71 

Danziger's  Recipes    57 

Desserts — Frozen    54 

Desserts  and  Puddings    47 

Drinks  and  Beverages    83 

Entrees,  Eggs,  Cheese    14 

Frostings  and  Fillings    69 

Hors  d'Oeuvres   7 

Jams  and  Marmalades    78 

Meats    21 

Pastry  and  Pies    58 

Pickles    79 

Poultry  and  Game   17 

Salads    33 

Sandwiches    84 

Sauces  for  Meats  and  Vegetables   38 

Sauces  for  Puddings    53 

Sea  Foods    11 

Soups    9 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures    8 

Vegetables    27 

All  recipes  under  each  division  are  listed  alphabetically. 


And  rews-Henninger  Co 

Chapel  Hill's  "Leading  Store"  of 
Better  Qualities 


Ready-to-wear,  Furnishings,  and  Shoes 


Agents  for 

Nelly  Don  Dresses      — —      Kayser  Silk  Hose 


For  Better  Cooking  Results  . . . 


GENERAL    fflL^4R]  ELECTRIC 


RANGE 

— Sales —  — Service- 

JOHN  KENFIELD'S 

Carolina  Sport  Shop 

Phone  7851 


Foreword 

In  compiling  this  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book,  the  women  of 
Mrs.  Frank  Miller's  and  Mrs.  R.  W.  Bost's  circles  of  the  Pres- 
byterian Church  have  attempted  to  catch  and  keep  some  of 
the  originality  and  appeal  of  dishes  served  in  the  homes  of 
the  village,  and  to  preserve  some  of  those  for  which  older 
hostesses  have  a  gentle  fame.  All  the  modest  cooks  wish  to 
disclaim  originating  the  recipes  they  furnished.  Their  signa- 
ture attests  in  most  cases,  they  say,  their  successful  experience 
with  the  recipe  and  their  approval  of  it.  In  a  book  of  this  size, 
no  real  effort  could  be  made  at  completeness:  therefore,  the 
editors  have  tried  to  be  selective  and  to  include  as  great  a 
variety  of  types  as  possible.  Good  luck  to  all  who  try  them! 

OUR  ADVERTISERS 
Please  patronize  with  appreciation  the  good  friends  who 
made  our  book  possible,  those  firms  and  business  men  in  Chapel 
Hill  who  have  cooperated  with  us. 


ADDITIONAL  RECIPES 


New  or  favorite  recipes  may  be  written  here. 


Hors  d'Oeuvres 


MISTLETOE  CANAPE 
Mix  sardine  paste  and  minced  bacon.    Spread  on  rounds  of  toast 
and  garnish  with  leaves  cut  from  green  pepper  and  several  pearl  onions 
for  berries. 

HOLLY  CANAPE 
Mix  deviled  ham  with  a  little  cream.    Spread  on  diamond-shaped 
pieces  of  toast.    Garnish  with  holly  leaves  cut  from  green  pepper  and 
pieces  of  pimento  for  berries. 

ANCHOVY  TRIANGLES 

Mix  anchovy  paste  with  cream  cheese,  a  little  cream  to  soften. 
Spread  on  triangles  of  puff  paste.    Garnish  with  a  dash  of  paprika. 

ROQUEFORT  CHEESE  SQUARES 

Mix  Roquefort  and  cream  cheese  (1  to  2)  with  a  little  cream.  Spread 
on  square  crackers.    Garnish  with  a  slice  of  stuffed  olive. 

YELLOW  CHEESE  ROLLS 

Spread  thin  slices  of  bread  with  snappy  cheese  mixed  with  mayon- 
naise. Roll  up  and  fasten  with  tooth  pick.  Toast  in  oven.  Remove 
tooth  pick  and  serve  at  once. 

CRAB  CANAPE 

Mix  minced  crab  flakes  and  minced  pickled  onions  with  mayonnaise. 
Spread  on  pieces  of  pastry  (2  in.  x  1  in.).    Garnish  with  capers. 

SARDINE  CANAPE 

Put  small  sardines  on  pieces  of  bread  (2  in.  x  1  in.)  toasted  on  one 
side.    Toast  under  the  broiler  and  serve  hot. 

With  any  of  the  above  hors  d'oeuvres  serve — 
Pickled  onions  on  tooth  picks. 

Small  codfish  balls  fried  in  butter  (serve  hot).    Stuffed  olives. 
Cocktail  sausage  (serve  hot).  Tiny  pickles 

Dried  beef — cut  in  pieces  (2  in.  x  1  in.)  and  spread  with  Roquefort 

cheese — roll  up  and  allow  to  stand  in  frigidaire  one  hour.    Serve  on 

cocktail  sticks. 

Mrs.  S.  H.  Hobbs,  Jr. 

BACON-PEANUT  CANAPES 

Toast  rounds  of  bread  and  spread  with  the  following  mixture: 

Chopped  peanuts 

Chopped  bacon  (fried) 

Mayonnaise 
Very  tasty  with  tomato  juice  cocktail. 

Mrs.  Donald  Stewart. 


8  The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 

CHEESE  CANAPE 

1  cup  butter  2  tablespoons  Worcester- 

1  cup  Roquefort  cheese  shire  sauce 

5  drops  Tabasco 

Cream  butter  and  cheese  together,  adding  seasoning.  Spread  as 
appetizer  on  salted  crackers.    Can  be  kept  in  ice  box  for  several  days. 

Mrs.  Shipp  Sanders. 

MISCELLANEOUS  SUGGESTIONS 

Hors  d'oeuvres  are  comparatively  easy  to  prepare  and  make  at- 
tractive trays  or  compartment  platters.  For  Sunday  night  suppers  they 
can  be  quite  the  most  important  item  on  the  menu.  Followed  by  one 
hot  dish,  such  as  deviled  crab  or  cheese  souffle,  and  a  simple  dessert  of 
fruit,  you  have  a  very  substantial  supper  and  one  to  delight  the  most 
fastidious  guest.  Suggestions  in  addition  to  the  recipes  already  given 
are:  Pimento  cups  stuffed  with  cheese;  caviar  canapes  decorated  with 
pearl  onions ;  halves  of  hard-cooked  eggs  stuffed  with  sifted  egg  yolk 
mixed  with  mayonnaise  and  pimentos;  mashed  grilled  sardines  on  toast; 
tomato  and  anchovy  canapes;  green  stuffed  olives;  California  ripe  olives; 
crisp  celery  stuffed  with  Roquefort  cheese;  stuffed  olives  wrapped  with 
bacon ;  tiny  link  sausage,  broiled  and  drained  served  on  tooth  picks ;  arti- 
choke hearts  marinated  in  lemon  French  dressing;  potato  salad  with 
pearl  onions ;  small  red  beets,  marinated ;  antipasto,  anchovy,  filets, 
tuna  fish,  green  asparagus  tips,  marinated;  crab  meat  salad;  yellow  to- 
matoes stuffed  with  caviar;  cucumbers  stuffed  with  cheese  and  sliced. 
Garnish  with  water-cress,  parsley,  and  green  pepper  rings;  green  pep- 
pers, stuffed  with  highly  seasoned  cream  cheese  and  put  in  refrigerator 
to  harden,  then  sliced. 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures 

%sp  (  ;    ..  ,r  r.:  ■■■ )        Dry     ■  -y: " 

2  cups=l  pound  sugar,  salt,  fruit,  butter  or  meat 

2  round  tablespoons  of  flour  =  1  ounce 

1  tablespoon  of  salt=zl  ounce 
16  ounces  =  1  pound 

4  cups  sifted  flour =1  pound  or  1  quart 
10  medium  eggs  =  l  pound 

3  cups  meal  — 1  pound 

"Butter  the  size  of  an  egg"=2  ounces,  %  cup 

2  round  tablespoons  of  coffees  1  ounce 
v          3  teaspoons  =  1  tablespoon 

12  tablespoons  =  1  cup 

Liquid 

60  drops  =  1  teaspoon 
16  tablespoons  =  1  cup 

2  gills  =  1  cup  or  V2  pint 

2  tablespoons  =  1  ounce 

1  pint  liquid  =  1  pound 


Soups 


CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS 

%  bunch  Asparagus  2  tablespoons  of  butter 

3  pt.  stock  or  water  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  onion  1  cup  cream 

3  sprigs  parsley  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

a  little  celery- 
Remove  tips  from  asparagus,  cook  in  a  little  stock  or  water  until 
tender.    Fry  onions  in  a  little  butter. 

Cook  slowly  asparagus  stalks,  parsley,  celery  and  fried  onions  in 
stock.  (35  minutes).  Strain  this,  pressing  as  much  of  asparagus 
through  sieve  as  possible.  Place  soup  on  stove  and  add  blended  butter 
and  flour.    Cook  slowly  10  minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 

Now  add  hot  asparagus  tips,  cream,  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  im- 
mediately. 

Mrs.  Robt.  W.  Madry. 

CLAM  CHOWDER 

6  medium-sized  potatoes,  1  slice  salt  pork  1/3 
diced  inch  thick 

2  qts.  cold  water  2  tablespoons  flour 
few  sprigs  parsley  1  qt.  clams  (or  2  doz.) 

1  medium-sized  onion  and  juice 

2  or  3  stalks  celery  1  tablespoon  Worcester- 
1  tablespoon  butter  shire  or  Al  sauce 
V2  teaspoon  thyme  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Small  can  tomatoes 

Cook  diced  potatoes  in  the  2  quarts  water.  Chop  parsley,  onion  and 
celery  and  add  to  the  potatoes.  Then  add  butter  and  thyme.  Cook 
about  20  minutes.  Cut  pork  in  small  pieces  and  fry  about  5  minutes. 
Stir  in  flour  and  1  cup  liquid  from  the  pot.  Cut  clams  in  quarters  and 
add  to  the  boiling  mixture  with  the  clam  juice.  Boil  two  minutes,  add 
sauce  (Worcestershire),  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Breckenridge. 

ONION  SOUP 

Put  into  saucepan  butter  size  of  egg.  When  hot  add  two  or  three 
large  onions  sliced  thin,  stir,  and  cook  well,  until  they  are  red;  then  stir 
a  full  half  teaspoon  of  flour  into  this,  watching  it  constantly  so  that  it 
does  not  burn.  Pour  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  add  pepper  and  salt. 
Mix  well  and  let  it  boil  a  minute,  then  pour  into  soup  kettle  and  place 
at  back  of  stove  until  ready  to  serve.  Add  IV2  pints  or  1  quart  boiling 
milk,  3  well  mashed  potatoes;  let  simmer  a  few  minutes  and  serve  with 
toast  squares. 

Mrs.  Wm.  MacNider. 

OYSTER  SOUP 

Put  1  quart  of  oysters  in  colander  and  pour  cold  water  over  them. 
Put  into  a  stew  pan  1  quart  of  sweet  milk  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil. 
Then  put  in  oysters  and  cook  until  edges  curl.  Just  before  removing 
from  fire  add  large  piece  of  butter,  salt  and  white  pepper  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Robt.  W.  Madry. 


10 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


TOMATO  BISQUE 

1  qt.  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  qt.  milk  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  level  teaspoon  soda  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Place  tomatoes  on  fire  to  cook  and  keep  them  quietly  boiling  until 
wanted.  Ten  minutes  before  dinner  place  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a 
frying  pan  and  when  melted  put  in  the  2  tablespoons  flour  and  con- 
tinue to  stir  until  thoroughly  cooked  but  not  browned.  Now  put  1  level 
teaspoon  soda  into  the  tomatoes  and  add  the  butter  and  flour  mixture. 
When  mixed  well,  add  the  1  quart  milk  and  let  all  come  to  a  boil.  It  is 
then  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  R.  B.  House. 


SOUP 

1  cup  Campbell's  tomato  1  small  can  corn 

soup 

Add  salt,  pepper  and  milk  to  thin,  and  a  pinch  of  baking  soda. 
Beaten  white  of  egg,  parsley  and  paprika  on  top.. 

Agnes  Harland. 


TOMATO  SOUP  WITH  CROUTONS 

1  can  tomatoes  8  whole  cloves 

Equal  amount  of  water  Salt  and  pepper 

1  sliced  onion  3  tablespoons  sugar 

Cook  for  l%-2  hours.   Pick  out  cloves  and  strain  through  fine  sieve. 

Melt  %  stick  of  butter  in  pan  and  add  full  tablespoon  flour.  Stir 
until  smooth  and  gradually  add  strained  liquid,  stirring  constantly.  Let 
come  to  boil. 

Cut  small  cubes  of  bread  and  fry  in  butter  until  brown.  When 
serving  add  croutons.    Serves  4. 

Mrs.  E.  Y.  Woodworth. 


VEGETABLE  SOUP  (SCOTCH  POT) 

2  lbs.  beef  knuckle  with  Beans,  peas,  or  butterbeans 

some  meat  on  it  either  fresh  or  small 

1  can  tomatoes  No.  2  can 

1  bunch  carrots  (5  to  6  V2  cup  rice 

small)  4  large  potatoes,  boiled 

1  head  celery,  cut  fine  or  creamed 

2  medium  sized  onions  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
6  pods  okra  or  small  can 

Put  soup  bone  and  meat  on  to  cook  five  hours  before  soup  is  to  be 
served.  When  it  has  boiled  two  hours  at  a  low  temperature,  add  cut 
up  carrots,  celery,  whole  onions,  beans  or  butterbeans,  okra,  tomatoes. 
One  hour  before  serving  add  rice  and  reduce  heat.  If  a  very  thick  soup 
is  desired,  creamed  potatoes  can  be  added  15  minutes  before  serving. 
The  seasoning  should  all  be  in  for  the  last  hour  of  cooking.  This  soup 
(without  pepper)  is  perfect  for  babies  from  six  months  on,  when 
strained,  and  is  a  full  luncheon  menu  in  one  dish. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Carroll. 


Sea  Foods 


DEVILLED  CRABS 

2  cans  or  1  pt.  crab  1  tablespoon  chopped 

meat  (steamed)  parsley 
1  pt.  milk  Yolks  of-  4  hard-boiled  eggs 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  small  grated  onion 

2  tablespoons  fiour  2  teaspoons  salt 

(scant)  %  teaspoon  cayenne 

1  teaspoon  Worcestershire 
Melt  butter,  add  flour.  Pour  in  hot  milk  and  stir  until  mixture 
thickens.  Mash  yolks  of  eggs  through  vegetable  press,  and  work  into 
hot  sauce.  Add  all  seasonings  to  the  crab  meat.  Mix  sauce  with  meat, 
being  careful  to  let  crab  meat  remain  in  as  large  pieces  as  possible. 
Fill  crab  shells  or  scallop  shells  with  mixture.  Beat  two  eggs,  add  2 
tablespoons  warm  water.  Cover  crabs  carefully  with  this  and  dust  with 
bread  crumbs.    Bake  in  hot  oven  until  golden  brown. 

Mrs.  Harry  McMullan. 

LOBSTER  CUTLETS  OR  FISH  CHOPS 

1  pt.  shredded  lobster  (or  1  cup  milk 

1  pt.  fish  meat)  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  rounded  tablespoons  flour 

1  teaspoon  pepper  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

Y2  teaspoon  onion  juice  XA  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

1  tablespoon  chopped 
parsley 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  then  milk.  Stir  with  wire  whip  until  smooth 
and  thick.  Remove  from  fire,  after  cooking  one  minute,  stirring  con- 
stantly. 

Take  the  lobster  or  shredded  fish  (flounder  or  any  large  fish  having 
few  bones).  Sprinkle  seasonings  and  10  drops  of  lemon  juice  over  it. 

Mix  seasoned  fish  and  sauce  together.  Cool.  When  stiff  enough  to 
mold,  form  in  the  shape  of  chops.  Dip  into  beaten  egg  with  1  tablespoon 
water  added,  then  dip  into  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat  until  golden 
brown.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and  garnish  with  sprig  of  parsley  on 
small  end  of  chop. 

Serve  with  hot  egg  sauce  or  hot  Tartar  Sauce. 

Hot  Egg  Sauce 

1  cup  white  sauce  V2  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
4  chopped  hard-boiled  olives 

eggs,  yolks  run  Y2  tablespoon  finely  chopped 

through  potato  ricer  parsley 
Vz  tablespoon  capers  or 
dill  pickle 

Season  highly  with  salt,  freshly  ground  whole  black  pepper  corns, 
cayenne.  Save  out  small  quantity  of  riced  egg  yolks  to  sprinkle  on  top 
of  sauce.  Mrs.  Harry  McMullan. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL 

%  cup  lemon  juice  2  tablespoons  onion 
xk  cup  tomato  catsup  ground  fine  or 

V2  cup  tomato  juice  1  teaspoon  onion  juice 

2  tablespoons  Worcester-  2  teaspoons  celery  salt 

shire  sauce  V2  teaspoon  soda 

1  tablespoon  Tabasco  sauce  2  tablespoons  grated 

horseradish 

Mix  thoroughly,  place  on  ice  and  serve  with  oysters  in  glasses^ 
Also  good  for  shrimp  or  crabmeat.  Mrs.  M.  H.  Stacy.  \/ 


12 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


OYSTERS  (FRIED) 

Wash  oysters  thoroughly  and  drain.  Roll  in  egg,  then  in  cracker 
dust,  to  which  plenty  of  salt  and  pepper  has  been  added.  If  oysters  are 
small,-  roll  three  or  four  together.    Fry  in  deep  Crisco  or  broil  in  butter. 

Mrs.  Bruce  Whitmire. 
PANNED  OYSTERS 
Melt  one  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  pan.    Add  1  teaspoon  minced 
parsley  and  well-drained  oysters.    Season.    As  soon  as  gills  curl,  re- 
move and  serve  on  buttered  toast.  Mrs.  J.  P.  Harland. 

SCALLOPED  OYSTERS 

1  pt.  oysters  Dash  of  Tabasco  sauce 

Vz  cup  melted  butter  1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste  %  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  Worcester- 
shire sauce 

Cover  bottom  of  buttered  baking  dish  with  bread  crumbs.  Lay  care- 
fully over  it  the  oysters  lifted  from  the  liquor.  Cover  with  another 
layer  of  crumbs  dusted  with  pepper  and  salt;  then  more  oysters.  Make 
the  top  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Strain  the  oyster  liquor,  add  to  it  the 
Worcestershire  and  Tabasco  sauces,  melted  butter,  and  milk,  scalding 
hot.  Pour  over  the  dish.  Sprinkle  over  the  top  a  layer  of  crumbs 
moistened  with  melted  butter.    Bake  in  oven  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  White. 

SALMON  LOAF 

1  can  salmon  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  1  medium-sized  onion 
1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  chopped  fine 

1  cup  stale  bread  or  %  cup  celery  chopped  fine 

cracker  crumbs  2  sweet,  green  peppers 

Y2  cup  sweet  milk  chopped  fine 

Mince  salmon,  add  cup  of  crumbs,  eggs  well  beaten  and  the  milk. 
Pour  into  well  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  30  minutes  in  medium  hot 
oven.    Serve  hot  or  cold.  Mrs.  L.  L.  Garner. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES 

1  can  salmon  1  cup  cracker  crumbs 

1  teaspoon  grated  onion  Butter  or  fat  to  fry 

1  teaspoon  Worcester-  2  beaten  eggs 

shire  sauce  Y2  cup  milk 

Juice  %  lemon 

Combine  the  salmon,  grated  onion,  Worcestershire  sauce,  lemon 
juice,  pepper  and  cracker  crumbs.  Mix  well,  then  add  beaten  eggs  and 
milk.    Mix  again  and  form  into  croquettes  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  Bruce  Whitmire. 
SHAD  (BAKED) 

3  lbs.  fish  1  cup  bread  crumbs 

1  small  onion  (chopped)  6  tablespoons  chopped 

4  tablespoons  Worcester-  parsley 

shire  1  egg 

6  tablespoons  bacon  3  tablespoons  meal 

drippings  Salt  and  pepper 

1  cup  boiling  water 
Dress  and  salt  fish.   Combine  bread  crumbs,  onion  and  3  tablespoons 
parsley,  2  tablespoons  of  Worcestershire,  egg,  teaspoon  salt  and  a  little 
black  pepper.    Stuff  fish  with  this  dressing.    Place  fish  in  baking  pan. 
Sprinkle  fish  and  baking  pan  with  meal  and  the  rest  of  the  parsley, 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book  13 

add  fat  and  place  in  medium  oven.   Cook  with  increasing  heat  until  meal 
is  well  browned,  then  add  boiling  water  and  remainder  of  Worcester- 
shire.    Reduce  heat  slightly,  baste  frequently  and  cook  until  done. 
(This  is  equally  good  for  baking  trout).         Mrs.  R.  W.  Madry. 
STUFFED  PEPPER  WITH  SHRIMP 
6  medium-sized  peppers  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

2  cups  canned  shrimp  V2  cup  tomato  juice 

1  teaspoon  minced  onion  1  beaten  egg 

Salt  3  cups  bread  crumbs 

Cut  off  tops  of  peppers  at  stem  end,  remove  seeds,  cover  with  hot 
water  and  boil  10  minutes.  Drain. 

Mix  egg  and  tomato  juice  and  add  to  crumbs,  butter,  onion  and  salt. 
Add  shrimp  and  place  in  pepper  cups.  Place  in  lightly  greased  cas- 
serole and  brown  in  hot  oven.  Mrs.  M.  H.  Stacy. 

SHRIMP  POILAN 
Empty  one  large  can  tomatoes  in  saucepan.  Add  one  chopped  onion, 
one  chopped  green  bell  pepper  and  4  strips  bacon.  Cook  together  % 
hour.  Add  1  quart  boiling  water.  Then  put  in  1  cup  well  washed  rice. 
Cook  slowly  for  an  hour.  Add  %  quart  freshly  cooked  shrimp  or  2 
cans  of  shrimp  (strained  of  liquor).  Season  lightly  with  tabasco,  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  salt.  Can  be  served  plain  or  if  preferred,  placed  in 
baking  dish,  covered  with  buttered  crumbs  and  run  into  oven  to  brown. 

Mrs.  Harry  McMullan. 
TUNA  FISH  A  LA  KING 
1  lb.  can  tuna  6  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  mushrooms  3  cups  milk 

(or  peas)  1  cup  buttered  bread 

4  eggs,  hard  cooked  crumbs 

1  4-oz.  can  pimento  Seasoning 
6  tablespoons  flour 

Make  white  sauce.  Flake  fish.  Stir  all  ingredients  into  white  sauce 
except  bread  crumbs.  Place  in  baking  dish  and  cover  with  crumbs. 
Bake  long  enough  to  brown  crumbs. 

This  dish  can  be  prepared  the  day  before  serving  and  baked  just  be- 
fore serving.    Serves  from  6  to  8.  Mrs.  Frank  W.  Hanft. 

TUNA  FISH  LOAF 

2  cups  tuna  flaked  1  tablespoon  pimento  cut 
IV2  cups  grated  cheese  in  tiny  pieces 

1  egg  well  beaten  3  tablespoons  milk 

V2  teaspoon  salt  Cracker  or  bread  crumbs 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter  Few  grains  pepper 

Combine,  using  crumbs  to  make  stiff  mixture.  Shape  in  baking 
pan.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (375°  F). 
Serve  hot  or  cold.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Preston. 

NOODLES  AND  TUNA  EN  CASSEROLE 
1  package  noodles  1  small  can  mushrooms 

1  can  Heinz  mushroom  3  hard-boiled  eggs 

soup  y2  teaspoon  salt 

1  package  pimento  cheese  White  pepper 

1  small  can  Tuna  fish 
Cook  noodles  until  tender,  about  15  minutes.  Heat  undiluted  soup, 
add  pimento  cheese,  cut  in  pieces,  stirring  until  melted.  Add  Tuna 
fish,  mushrooms  which  have  been  cut  and  sauted  in  butter,  and  eggs 
cut  in  pieces.  Mix  all  together  and  bake  in  casserole  in  moderate  oven 
30  minutes.    Serves  8.  Mrs.  Rose  Wagstaff. 


SHIELDS1 

Home  -  Owned 
Food  Store 

Locally  Owned  and  Operated 


SELF  SERVICE  -  ECONOMY 


Standard  Groceries  at 
Low  Prices 


Entrees,  Eggs,  Cheese 


BREAKFAST  SOUFFLE 

Melt  3  tablespoons  butter,  add  3  tablespoons  flour,  1  cup  milk.  Bring 
to  boiling  point.  Season  with  %  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  dash  of  pepper. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten  thick  and  smooth. 
Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Turn  in  buttered  baking 
dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  25  minutes.  Serve  immediately 
with  butter. 

Delicious  for  breakfast.  Mrs.  Fred  Patterson. 

BAKED  CHEESE  DISH 

4  slices  bread  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  V±  teaspoon  paprika 

1  teaspoon  prepared  IV2  cup  milk 

mustard  %  lb.  cheese 

2  eggs  4  slices  bacon 

Mix  the  mustard  and  butter  and  spread  on  the  bread.  Cut  the 
bread  in  pieces  to  fit  a  greased  baking  dish.  Grate  cheese  and  sprinkle 
over  bread.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  salt,  paprika,  and  milk  and  pour  this 
mixture  over  the  bread.  Cut  bacon  in  2-inch  pieces  and  lay  on  top. 
Bake  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven  (350°). 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Thompson. 

CHEESE  FONDUE 

1  cup  milk  V2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  Vs  teaspoon  white  pepper 

1  cup  grated  cheese  2  egg  yolks 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  egg  whites 
^4  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Scald  the  milk,  add  bread  crumbs,  cheese,  butter,  baking  powder, 
salt  and  pepper,  then  add  egg  yolks  well  beaten. 

Fold  in  the  beaten  egg  whites  and  bake  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  for  almost  30  minutes  at  350°. 

Mrs.  P.  E.  Davenport. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  grated  cheese 

3  tablespoons  flour  3  egg  yolks 
%  cup  scalded  milk  3  egg  whites 

V2  teaspoon  salt  Few  grains  cayenne 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  and  when  well  mixed  add  gradually  scalded 
milk,  then  salt,  cayenne,  and  cheese. 

Remove  from  fire,  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  till  lemon  colored.  Cool 
mixture,  cut  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  dry.  Pour  into 
well  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  20  minutes  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Bain. 

ANCHOVY  EGGS 
Hardboil  12  or  16  eggs.  Devil  yolks  with  anchovy  paste.  Make 
cream  sauce  and  add  V2  pound  fresh  mushrooms  or  1  medium  size  can 
of  mushrooms  and  one  can  tomato  paste.  Place  eggs  either  halved  or 
quartered  in  casserole  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them.  Use  bread  crumbs 
on  top  and  bake  in  hot  oven  a  few  minutes.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Charles  G.  Snow. 


16 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


CREOLE  EGGS 

One  large  onion  fried  in  a  little  butter.  One  green  pepper  chopped 
and  one  can  of  tomatoes.  Salt  and  pepper.  Cook  until  thick.  Into  a 
baking  dish  put  a  layer  of  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  large  pieces,  Y2  can 
of  small  green  peas  drained,  V2  of  the  above  sauce  and  1  tablespoon 
of  white  sauce.  Repeat  until  dish  is  full.  Cover  top  with  bread  crumbs 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 


ESCALLOPED  EGGS  WITH  CHEESE 

2  tablespoons  butter  V2  cup  cheese,  in  small 

2  tablespoons  flour  cubes 

1  cup  milk  1  cup  bread  crumbs 

3  eggs,  hard  cooked 

and  sliced 

Make  white  sauce.  Add  cheese  and  eggs.  Place  one-half  of  the 
crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  well  buttered  baking  dish.  Cover  with  egg 
mixture.  Sprinkle  with  remaining  crumbs.  Bake  until  brown.    Serves  3. 

Mrs.  Frank  W.  Hanft. 


EGGS  (ESCALLOPED  WITH  CHEESE) 

6  eggs  boiled  and  cut  in  halves.  Take  out  yolks  and  add:  1  table- 
spoon mustard,  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  salt,  pepper  and 
celery  seed  to  taste. 

Fill  halves  with  above  mixture. 

Mix  IV2  cups  of  grated  cheese  with  1  cup  of  white  sauce.  Place 
eggs  in  baking  dish,  which  has  been  well  greased  with  butter.  Pour 
white  sauce  and  cheese  over  eggs  and  dot  top  with  toasted  bread  crumbs. 

Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 


NOODLE  SOUFFLE 

2  cups  cooked  noodles  %  cup  melted  butter 

1 V2  cups  cream  3  eggs,  beaten  separately 

V2  cup  grated  cheese 

Fold  in  beaten  white  last;  add  a  little  chopped  parsley,  grease  pan 
well  and  bake  in  a  pan  of  water.  Serve  with  cream  sauce,  to  which 
mushrooms,  lobster,  or  shrimps  can  be  added  if  desired. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Kenfield. 


WELSH  RAREBIT 

1  tablespoon  butter  Vs  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  V2  cup  milk 

V8  teaspoon  pepper  5  slices  bread  toasted 

V±  teaspoon  soda  on  one  side 

%  lb.  cheese 

Melt  butter  and  add  cheese  broken  into  small  pieces.  Stir  until 
cheese  is  melted;  add  egg,  beaten  and  diluted  with  the  milk,  then  the 
salt,  pepper  and  soda.    Serve  on  toast,  untoasted  side  up.    Serves  5. 

Mrs.  George  Bason. 


Poultry  and  Game 


BRUNSWICK  STEW 

1  qt.  corn  6  lb.  Chicken 

8  large  white  potatoes  2  lb.  veal 

1  stick  of  butter  1  lb.  lean  pork  (if  desired) 
xk  bottle  Lea  &  Perrin  1  qt.  tomatoes 

Sauce  1  qt.  green  lima  beans 

2  tablespoons  sugar  8  large  onions  (cut  into 

1  pod  red  pepper  small  pieces) 
Salt  and  black  pepper 

Cover  chicken  and  meat  with  water.  Boil  until  tender.  Remove 
bones  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Add  tomatoes,  onions,  lima  beans,  and 
red  pepper.  Cook  slowly  until  vegetables  are  tender.  Add  corn  and 
sugar.  Cook  potatoes,  mash  well,  season  with  butter,  salt  and  black 
pepper  and  add  to  stew,  stirring  constantly  to  keep  from  sticking.  Leave 
top  off  of  pot  after  potatoes  are  added.  Cook  slowly  until  thick.  Add 
Lea  and  Perrin  sauce  before  serving.    (Makes  eight  quarts). 

Mrs.  Leonard  E.  Fields. 

CHICKEN  A  LA  KING 

2  cups  of  diced  chicken  IV2  cups  fresh  mushrooms 

meat  or  1  can 

5  tablespoons  salad  oil  %  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  chopped  3  cups  rich  cream 

pimentoes  2%  tablespoons  flour 

6  tablespoons  chopped  1  tablespoon  butter 

green  peppers  2  egg-yolks 

1  tablespoon  capers  Paprika 
Cook  mushrooms  5  minutes  in  salad  oil,  then  add  mixture  to  the 
chicken,  caper,  peppers  and  pimentoes.  Add  paprika  and  salt  to  taste. 
Beat  egg  yolks.  Prepare  a  white  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour,  and  cream. 
Pour  sauce  into  egg  yolks.  Add  the  chicken  mixture  and  beat  thor- 
oughly. 

Serve  in  patty  shells  or  on  rounds  of  toast.  This  quantity  serves 
from  4  to  6.  Mrs.  Ralph  W.  Bost. 

BARBECUED  CHICKEN 

1  young  chicken  about  1  scant  teaspoon  salt 

2V2  lbs.  2  teacpoons  sugar 

1  cup  of  vinegar  %  stick  or  nearly  %  lb. 

1  cup  of  water  butter 

1  small  pod  red  pepper 
Split  chicken  on  back  and  place  skin  up  in  a  roaster  or  steamer. 
Sprinkle  with  a  little  flour,  then  salt  and  sugar.  Cut  up  pepper  in  fine 
pieces  over  chicken.  Pour  water  and  vinegar  into  which  butter  has  been 
melted  over  all.  Cover  and  steam  about  40  minutes.  Take  cover  off 
and  put  inside  oven.  Baste  the  chicken  often  with  the  liquid  or  gravy 
in  the  container  until  all  gravy  is  used  up.  The  secret  of  good  barbecued 
chicken  is  in  the  basting.  Cook  about  two  hours  or  until  very  dark 
brown.  Mrs.  T.  J.  Wilson. 

CHICKEN  CREOLE 

1  cup  chopped  onions  1  can  tomato  soup 

1  clove  garlic  3  cups  chicken  broth 

4  tablespoons  shortening  1  chicken,  boiled  and  boned 

2  teaspoons  salt  1  package  cooked  spaghetti 
XA  teaspoon  cloves  Parmesan  cheese 

XA  teaspoon  chili  powder 


Service  Insurance  and  Realty 
Company 

COLLIER  COBB,  JR.,  Pres.  W.  DeR.  SCOTT,  Sec.-Treas. 

General  Insurance 

Real  Estate 
Rental  Management 

TELEPHONE  5721 


Let  Us  Do  Your  Car  Needs  While  You  Shop 

We  Appreciate  Your  Business 

STROWD  MOTOR  CO. 

Ford  Products  Since  1914 


The  Bull's  Head  Bookshop 

You  are  invited  to  come  here  and 
browse,  borrow,  or  buy. 

Ground  Floor,  University  Library,  West  Door 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


19 


Cook  the  onions  and  garlic  gently  in  the  shortening  until  tender  but 
not  brown.  Add  the  seasonings,  tomato  soup,  and  chicken  broth  and 
cook  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes.  Add  the  chicken  and  spaghetti  and 
cook  slowly  for  another  fifteen  minutes.    Serve  with  Parmesan  cheese. 

Mrs.  Guy  B.  Johnson. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 

1  pt.  chicken  ground  V2  cup  almonds  chopped 

1  tablespoon  chopped  fine 

parsley  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  onion  juice  1  teaspoon  pepper 

Mix  with  white  sauce  and  mold  into  shape.  Roll  in  cracker  crumbs 
and  eggs  and  fry  a  golden  brown  in  deep  fat. 

Tomato  Sauce  for  Croquettes 

1  can  tomatoes  (3  lbs.)  IY2  tablespoons  flour 

1  teaspooon  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  Wine  glass  of  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  Worcester-  1  clove  or  onion, 

shire  sauce  stalk  of  celery 

Cook  slowly  V2  hour.    When  done,  add  mushrooms  if  desired. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Branson. 

CHICKEN  AND  HAM  TIMBALES 

1  cup  chopped  chicken  %  cup  milk 

(or  veal)  2  teaspoons  parsley 

1  cup  chopped  ham  2  eggs 

1/3  cup  stale  bread  2  tablespoons  butter 

crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

Melt  butter.  Add  crumbs  and  milk.  Cook  5  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  meat,  parsley  and  slightly  beaten  eggs  and  salt.  Turn 
into  buttered  molds  (two-thirds  full).  Put  in  pan  of  hot  water  and 
cover  with  buttered  brown  paper.    Bake  30  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  John  M.  Booker. 

CHICKEN  MERINGUE 

1  4-lb.  fowl  (when  %  cup  pimento 

dressed)  4  well  beaten  eggs 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  XA  cup  butter  or  chicken 
1  cup  cooked  rice  fat 

1  teaspoon  salt  l1^  pts.  chicken  broth 

V2  teaspoon  paprika 
Mix  all  together  and  bake  slowly  one  hour.    Cut  in  squares  and 
serve  with  sauce.    I  use  a  pan  9  in.  x  13  in.  by  about  2  in.  deep. 

Sauce 

%  cup  butter  or  chicken  %  cup  cream  or  milk 

fat  Vz  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

V±  cup  flour  V2  teaspoon  parsley 

1  pt.  chicken  broth  Y2  lb.  or  a  No.  2  can 

2  egg  yolks  of  mushrooms 
Salt  to  taste 

Brown  mushrooms  in  butter.  Add  lemon  juice  and  parsley  at  the 
very  last.  Mix  all  ingredients  and  cook  until  thick.  Serves  from  12 
to  14.  Mrs.  M.  L.  Jacobs. 

ROAST  CHICKEN 

Clean  and  dress  chicken.  Dust  chicken  with  flour,  pepper  and  salt; 
add  Y2  cup  of  butter.    One-fourth  cup  of  water  may  be  added  when 


20 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


chicken  has  been  in  the  oven  Vz  hour.  The  chicken  may  be  covered  at 
this  time,  although  it  will  be  quite  satisfactory  in  the  open  pan.  Baste 
chicken  thoroughly  before  dishing.  To  make  the  gravy,  remove  chicken, 
skim  off  the  fat  and  add  2%  tablespoons  of  flour  to  liquid  in  pan  and 
blend  carefully.  Then  add  water  in  which  the  giblets  have  been  cooked. 
Stir  until  boiling;  cook  5  minutes. 

The  average  takes  from  one  to  two  hours  to  roast. 

SALAD  (CHICKEN) 

Cut  cold  chicken  into  pieces,  cut  celery  into  pieces.  Use  2  parts 
chicken  to  1  of  celery,  sprinkle  with  salt,  a  little  red  pepper  and  lemon 
juice.  Stir  in  lightly  with  a  fork,  mayonnaise  (or  half  mayonnaise  and 
half  cooked  salad  dressing)  sufficient  to  season  well.  Whipped  cream 
can  be  added  to  dressing  if  desired.  Turkey  can  be  used  as  well  as 
chicken.  For  football  menus  fill  finger  rolls  with  the  salad.  Heat 
thoroughly  and  serve  immediately. 

STEWED  CHICKEN  (CZECHOSLOVAKIAN) 

Clean  the  chickens  and  cut  them  into  four  or  eight  pieces.  Melt  fat 
in  a  frying  pan  and  let  cut  up  onions  braise  in  it,  but  not  until  the 
onions  get  brown,  then  mix  in  some  sweet  red  pepper.  Put  in  the 
chickens  and  a  little  water  and  braise  them  in  this  until  they  are  quite 
soft.  Now  put  in  some  sour  cream  in  which  you  have  mixed  a  little 
flour,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  after  the  cream  has  been  added. 

Elinor  Henderson  from  Mrs.  M.  S.  White. 

TURKEY  (ROASTED  WITH  DRESSING) 

For  a  10-pound  turkey  use  2  small  loaves  of  bread.  Tear  bread 
apart  and  toast  slightly  and  grind  in  meat  chopper.  The  foundation  of 
the  stuffing  is: 

Soft  bread  crumbs  V2  teaspoon  sage 

1  teaspoon  pepper  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

Mix  lightly  all  ingredients  with  hand.  Mix  small  bits  of  hard  butter 
all  through  dressing.  Stuff  the  turkey  with  this,  then  sew  it  up.  Also 
fill  loose  part  of  neck. 

Rub  turkey  with  butter  and  dredge  with  flour,  after  placing  it  on 
its  side  on  the  meat  rack.  When  the  flour  in  the  baking  pan  browns 
pour  in  water  and  begin  basting.  When  it  has  cooked  V2  hour  on  one 
side  turn  on  its  back  to  brown  the  breast.  Success  in  roasting  depends 
on  a  brisk  oven  and  faithful  basting.  Mrs.  Wm.  MacNider. 


UNIVERSITY  SERVICE  STATION 

Texaco  Products,  Marf  ak  Lubrication, 
Firestone  Tires,  Exide  Batteries 

H.  S.  Pendergraft,  Proprietor 


Meats 


CHILI  CON  CARNE 

2  lbs.  beef,  cut  small  4  tablespoons  (or  more) 
1  onion  Chili  powder 

1  clove  of  garlic  About  2  tablespoons  salt 
4  tablespoons  fat  2  tablespoons  flour 

Black  pepper  to  taste 

Melt  the  fat  and  cook  onion  and  garlic  slightly.  Add  meat  and  sear. 
Mix  flour  and  chili  powder  into  meat.  Add  salt.  When  well  mixed,  add 
2  quarts  of  boiling  water  and  simmer  several  hours. 

Mrs.  Harry  F.  Comer. 

CHOP  SUEY 
Season  1  lb.  veal  and  1  lb.  pork,  cut  small. 
Put  in  kettle  with  cover  on  and  stir  and  brown. 
Take  off  stock  as  it  simmers. 

Put  3  bunches  celery,  cut  about  an  inch  long,  6  big  onions,  cut  not 
too  small  in  with  meat  and  stock. 

To  2  tablespoons  bead  molasses,  3  good  tablespoons  chop  suey  sauce, 
1  teaspoon  sugar,  add  about  3  tablespoons  of  flour.  Combine  mixture, 
and  15  minutes  before  serving,  add  a  can  of  mushrooms  and  juice. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Kenfield. 

CHOW  MEIN 

%  cup  onions  cut  fine  1  can  Chinese  bean 

3  tablespoons  fat  sprouts 

%  teaspoon  salt  1  can  mushrooms 

Vs  teaspoon  pepper  1  can  water  chestnuts 

IV2  cups  celery  cut  fine  1  can  bamboo  shoots 

2  cups  cooked  chicken  2  tablespoons  Shoyo  sauce 
2  cups  chicken  stock  or  Soy  sauce 

Saute  the  onions  in  the  fat;  add  salt,  pepper,  celery,  and  meat,  then 
the  thickened  chicken  broth.  Cook  slowly  for  about  thirty  minutes. 
Then  add  the  canned  materials  and  a  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar. 
Heat  thoroughly  and  then  add  Soy  sauce.  Serve  with  Chinese  noodles 
or  rice.    Serves  8.  Mrs.  M.  S.  Breckenridge. 

GOULASH 

1  lb.  round  steak  6  onions 

(ground)  1  No.  2  can  tomatoes 

V2  box  macaroni  or  Grated  cheese 

spaghetti  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Slice  onions  and  fry  brown;  add  steak  and  let  simmer  with  onions. 
Cook  macaroni  in  salt  water  and  drain;  add  tomatoes  to  macaroni. 
Place  in  baking  dish,  alternating  layers  of  meat  and  onions,  and  maca- 
roni and  tomatoes.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  on  top  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  about  45  minutes.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Linker. 

TO  BOIL  A  HAM 

Let  the  ham  soak  all  night  skin  side  up.  To  boil,  put  in  cold  water, 
skin  side  down.  Count  time  for  cooking  after  it  comes  to  boiling  point. 
For  a  thick  ham  allow  25  minutes  to  the  pound.  Keep  at  boiling  point. 
Never  allow  hard  boiling,  only  an  occasional  bubble.  Leave  in  water 
until  the  next  morning.    Take  out  and  slip  the  skin,  remove  the  loose 


The  Carolina  Inn 

Chapel  Hill,  N.  C. 


WHITEHALL  GIFT  SHOP 

(Opposite  the  Episcopal  Church) 


Antiques 


Distinctive  Gifts 
Hand  Made 
From  All  Parts  of  the  World 

Pewter — Weaving — Woodcarving — Audubon  and  Gould  Prints 
Homespuns — Etchings — Pottery — Glass — Silk  Damask  Lingerie 

Famous  Sugared  Black  Walnuts 

(Delicious) 

Mrs.  George  Bason  Chapel  Hill 

307  E.  Franklin  North  Carolina 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


23 


bone,  cover  lightly  with  brown  sugar  and  stick  cloves  over  the  surface. 
Brown  in  oven.    When  cold  put  in  refrigerator  to  become  firm. 

Mrs.  Wm.  MacNider. 

HAM 

When  cooking  a  medium  sized  ham  of  the  Smithfield  variety,  there 
is  no  need  to  soak  it.  Put  it  on  top  of  the  stove  and  simmer  for  about 
six  hours,  or  until  the  little  bone  is  loose.  Skin,  put  brown  sugar,  cloves 
and  pepper  on  top,  and  bake  until  sugar  is  brown. 

Mrs.  C.  T.  Woollen. 

HAM 

Thick  slice  of  ham.  Little  water  in  bottom  of  baking  dish.  Put 
ham  in.  Peel  and  core  some  apples  and  stuff  with  raisins.  Peel  and 
quarter  nice  yellow  yams.  Sprinkle  white  or  brown  sugar  over  all  and 
bake  slowly.    Serve  with  salty  salad  and  no  dessert. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Harland. 

HAM  FRITTERS  WITH  BANANAS 

2  eggs  3  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  milk  Salt  if  needed 

XA  teaspoon  pepper  Chopped  onion 
2  cups  ground  ham 

Beat  eggs,  add  flour,  milk,  seasoning  and  ground  ham.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  into  deep  hot  fat  (375-385  deg.  F.).  Fry  until  brown.  Drain 
on  paper.  Arrange  on  center  of  platter  and  surround  with  bananas 
fried  as  follows: 

Peel  6  small  bananas,  cut  in  half,  dip  in  lemon  juice,  dredge  with 
flour  and  fry  until  brown.  Mrs.  William  M.  Pugh. 

HAM  LOAF 

Wz  lb.  ham,  ground  1  egg 

l1/^  lb.  pork,  ground  1  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs 

Make  into  loaf  for  baking.    On  top  of  loaf  put: 

%  cup  bread  crumbs  1  cup  pineapple  juice 

and  bake  1  hour.  Then  remove  loaf  from  oven  and  add  slices  of  pine- 
apple to  top  of  loaf.  Sprinkle  slices  with  a  little  sugar  and  bake 
another  hour.  Mrs.  E.  C.  Penn. 

HAMBURGER  SUPREME 

1  lb.  hamburger  steak  1  can  corn 

%  lb.  onions  Hot  mashed  potatoes 

Cook  hamburger  and  onions  until  done.  Add  corn  and  put  mixture 
in  a  pie  dish.  Cover  with  hot  mashed,  seasoned  potatoes  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  until  brown. 

Mrs.  George  Logan. 

ROAST  LAMB 

Wash  and  scrub  one  forequarter  of  lamb  to  remove  any  unpleasant 
taste;  dry  and  chop  for  handling.  Rub  over  with  cooking  oil  or  bacon 
fat.  Sprinkle  with  flour  and  brown  well  on  both  sides.  Add  two  or 
three  cups  of  hot  water.   Cover  and  cook  slowly  until  very  tender.  More 


24 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


water  may  be  added.  Season  last  with  salt  and  pepper.  Have  ready 
the  sauce  and  baste  with  this  and  continue  browning,  turning  on  all 
sides.    Any  meat  may  be  used  with  the  sauce. 

Sauce 

1/3  cup  each:  vinegar,  tomato  catsup.  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  cup 
water.    2  teaspoons  mustard,  cayenne  and  salt  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Arthur  L.  Woods. 

MEAT  LOAF 

1  lb.  beef         )  around  tntrethrr  2  eg£s>  sliShtly  beaten 

1  lb.  veal  H£e?v       g  %  cup  milk  or  cream 

1  lb.  lean  pork  J       y  Y2  cup  tomato  juice 

Salt,  pepper,  bread  crumbs,  about  V2  cup  mixture.  Roll  loaves  in 
crumbs.    Cook  about  40  minutes,  at  400  degrees. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Preston. 

PORK  CHOPS 

Brown  4  to  6  pork  chops  in  the  frying  pan. 
Arrange  in  pyrex  baking  dish. 

Add  1  onion  sliced,  1  can  of  peas  and  juice,  and  1  can  of  Camp- 
bell's tomato  soup.  Bake  until  meat  is  well  done.  Baked  white  pota- 
toes go  well  with  this.  Mrs.  J.  P.  Harland. 

STUFFED  PORK  CHOPS 

Have  butcher  cut  pork  chops  one  inch  thick  and  cut  pocket  in  thick 
part.  Fill  pocket  with  dressing  made  of  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with 
salt,  pepper,  butter  and  a  little  onion  juice.  Pin  opening  together  with 
tooth  picks.  Place  in  pan  with  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning 
and  roast  in  moderate  oven. 

POT  ROAST  DE  LUXE 

Heat  in  Dutch  oven  on  top  of  stove  2  tablespoons  of  fat  and  in  it 
place  3  lbs.  of  beef  (a  piece  of  rump  or  top  of  round),  which  has  been 
well  rubbed  with  garlic,  salt  and  pepper. 

Brown  meat  in  hot  fat  turning  until  all  sides  are  brown,  and  re- 
move to  a  plate. 

In  above  fat,  place  2  onions  peeled  and  diced  and  brown  without 
allowing  them  to  get  hard.  .  To  this  add  chopped  celery,  parsley,  carrots, 
2  bay  leaves,  2  black  peppers  and  1  can  of  tomatoes. 

Replace  meat  in  Dutch  oven  and  cook  all  together  in  moderate  oven 
for  4  hours,  basting  frequently. 

For  gravy  put  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  skillet,  with  one  lump  of 
sugar,  stir  until  brown.  To  this  add  one  tablespoonful  well  browned 
flour  and  the  same  of  vinegar.    Stir  until  smooth. 

Place  hot  roast  on  platter.  Drain  off  most  of  fat  from  gravy,  add 
sugar  mixture,  and  again  stir  until  smooth. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Harland. 
PAN  BROILED  STEAK 

Porterhouse  steak. 

Salt,  paprika,  chopped  parsley,  butter. 

Heat  your  pan  quite  hot,  lay  steak  in  the  hot  dry  pan,  and  cover 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


25 


instantly.  Turn  steak  quickly  every  half  minute,  keeping  it  covered  as 
much  as  possible.  Cook  five  minutes  or  till  done.  When  done,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  paprika,  put  a  piece  of  butter  on  top  and  sprinkle  with 
parsley.  Mrs.  Wm.  MacNider. 

SPANISH  STEAK 

One  pound  of  round  steak,  2  cups  tomatoes,  1  diced  onion,  2  cups  of 
diced  celery.  Pound  steak,  then  salt,  pepper  and  flour  it.  Fry  in  meat 
drippings  until  nicely  browned,  then  put  in  buttered  baking  dish,  and 
place  over  the  steak,  the  tomatoes,  onions,  and  celery  in  order  given. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour.  The  tomatoes  will  make  a  tough 
steak  tender,  and  the  celery  makes  a  delicious  brown  covering. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Hobbs. 

SWISS  STEAK 

Cut  steak  in  individual  portions.  Mix  flour,  pepper,  salt,  and  any 
other  seasoning  desired.  Beat  this  mixture  into  the  steak  until  it  is 
well  coated.  Brown  meat  on  both  sides.  Add  enough  water  or  stock 
to  make  gravy  and  simmer  for  two  or  three  hours. 

Mrs.  George  Logan. 

VEAL-HAM  PIE  , 

1  lb.  cooked  veal  V2  pt.  veal  stock 

4  oz.  cooked  ham  1  tablespoon  Knox  Gelatin 

Juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon  2  hard-boiled  eggs 

V2  lb.  mushrooms  Tablespoon  flour  with 

Little  parsley  pepper  and  salt 

Cut  meat  in  small  pieces,  and  dust  with  flour  mixture.  Put  in  a 
deep  baking  dish,  and  cover  with  pastry  with  hole  in  center  to  let  steam 
out.   Cook  IV2  hours.  Mrs.  C.  T.  Woollen. 

VEAL  LOAF 

1  lb.  veal,  ground  1  tablespoon  chopped 

V2  cup  crumbs  green  pepper 

1  egg  1/3  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  chopped  %  teaspoon  paprika  or 

onions  black  pepper 

1  tablespoon  chopped  2  tablespoons  melted  fat 

celery 

Mix,  shape  into  loaf  not  quite  as  large  as  baking  pan.  Add  %  inch 
water.    Bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven,  basting  frequently. 


Willie  Ames. 


VEAL  PIE 


IV2  lbs.  veal  2  cups  water 

3  tablespoons  fat  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  onions,  minced  %  teaspoon  pepper 

IV2  cups  diced  celery  3  tablespoons  flour 

Trim  and  cut  the  veal  in  small  cubes.  Brown  in  fat.  Add  onions, 
celery  and  water  and  cover  closely.  Cook  slowly  until  tender.  Add  salt, 
pepper  and  flour,  which  has  been  smoothed  to  a  paste  in  a  little  cold 
water.  Stir  until  sauce  thickens.  Pour  into  baking  dish.  Cover  with 
small  biscuits  placed  close  together.   Bake  at  425  degrees  for  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  H.  F,  Munch. 


SMITH  &  WATTS 


Dry  CI 


eaners 


Phone  3531  110  N.  Columbia  St. 


PHONE  5281  P.O.  BOX  266 

A.  S.  Blackwood 

PLUMBING  AND  HEATING  CONTRACTOR 
Stokers  and  Oil-Burners 
CHAPEL  HILL,  N.  C. 

Call  5281 — For  Your  Plumbing,  Heating  Repairs, 
and  Insulation 


Poe-Mangum  Auto  Service 

PHONE  6581 

DeSoto  Plymouth 

Sales  &  Service 


Vegetables 


CREOLE  BEANS 

2  lbs.  string  beans  Vz  cup  tomato  catsup 

1  stick  (%  lb.)  butter  Salt  to  taste 

V2  cup  Chili  sauce 

Slice  beans  lengthwise  in  quarters,  and  boil  hard  30  to  40  minutes. 
Drain  water,  and  add  the  combined  melted  butter  and  sauces  just  before 
serving.  Mrs.  Milton  Heath. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  AU  GRATIN 

1  qt.  Brussels  sprouts  IV2  cups  cream  sauce 
V2  cup  grated  cheese                      Bread  crumbs 

Cook  Brussels  sprouts  in  salted  water  until  tender,  drain  and  season 
with  melted  butter.  Mix  cheese  and  cream  sauce  and  pour  over  Brussels 
sprouts.  Place  in  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  toasted  bread  crumbs 
and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Cauliflower  or  cabbage  can  be  used  in  place  of  Brussels  sprouts  if 
preferred.  Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 

CARROT  RING 

2  cups  carrot  pulp  1  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  sugar 

XA  teaspoon  pepper  3  tablespoons  butter 

3  eggs  1  tablespoon  flour 

Cook  a  number  of  carrots  until  tender.  Press  through  a  ricer  and 
measure  2  cupfuls.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  onion.  Beat 
eggs  slightly,  add  milk,  then  blend  well  with  carrot  mixture,  flour, 
sugar  and  butter.  Pour  into  a  well  greased  ring  mold  and  set  in  pan  of 
warm  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  35-45  minutes.  Turn  out  on 
platter  and  fill  center  with  buttered  peas.  Mrs.  Bason. 

CARROT  SOUFFLE 

3  tablespoons  melted  %  teaspoon  each  salt 

butter  and  paprika 

3  tablespoons  flour 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  seasoning,  and,  slowly,  1  cup  of  rich 
milk.  Stir  and  let  boil  3  minutes  or  till  thickened.  Add  2  cups  cooked 
strained  carrots  (sieved),  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  thick.  Then  fold 
in  3  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Turn  into  buttered  baking  dish,  cover 
with  %  cup  soft  sifted  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  %  cup  of  melted 
butter.  Set  dish  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  slowly  %  hour.  This 
makes  a  good  luncheon  dish.  Like  any  souffle  it  must  be  eaten  at  once 
or  it  will  fall.  Mrs.  Paul  Green. 

CELERY,  CHEESE  AND  NUT  DISH 

2  cups  blanched  almonds  3  cups  white  sauce 

1  cup  chopped  celery  1  cup  bread  crumbs 

2  cups  grated  cheese 

Chop  almonds,  and  arrange  celery,  almonds,  and  cheese  in  layers,  in 
a  baking  dish  which  has  been  buttered.  Cover  with  a  medium  white 
sauce,  and  sprinkle  top  with  bread  crumbs.  Set  in  a  medium  oven  30 
or  40  minutes,  and  serve  hot.  Mrs.  Milton  Heath. 


28 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


CORN  CHOWDER 

2  cans  corn  3  or  4  good  sized  potatoes 

1  qt.  milk  sliced 

2  large  onions  sliced  12  butter  flake  crackers 
Fat  pork  or  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Fry  out  6  very  thin  slices  of  fat  pork,  add  the  sliced  onions,  a  quart 
of  water  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  cook  15  or  20  minutes.  Add 
the  potatoes,  and  cook  until  tender.  Add  corn;  in  5  minutes  add  milk 
and  crackers  with  good  size  piece  of  butter. 

The  recipe  is  used  for  both  clam  and  fish  chowders,  using  less  salt 
for  clam  chowder.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Preston. 

EGGPLANT  CASSEROLE 

1  medium-sized  egg-  1  cup  canned  tomatoes 

plant,  peeled  and  1  cup  cold  rice 

diced  3  tablespoons  drippings 

1  large  onion,  chopped  1  teaspoon  salt 

fine  Bread  crumbs 

%  lb.  hamburger 

Using  a  frying  pan,  brown  onion  and  eggplant  in  the  drippings. 
Add  hamburger  and  allow  to  sear,  then  add  tomatoes  and  cook  until  all 
is  tender.  Add  the  cold  rice  and  salt  and  mix  well.  Turn  into  baking 
dish,  cover  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  and  heat  in  oven  until  browned. 

Mrs.  John  Woosley. 

EGGPLANT  FRITTERS 

1  pt.  eggplant  pulp  V2  teaspoon  salt 

V2  cup  sifted  flour  Vs  teaspoon  pepper 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  Few  drops  onion  juice 

Cut  eggplant  in  pieces  and  drop  in  boiling  salted  water  to  which  a 
tablespoon  of  vinegar  has  been  added.  Boil  until  soft.  Drain  thoroughly 
and  wash.  To  one  pint  of  eggplant  pulp,  add  the  sifted  flour,  well  beat- 
en eggs,  salt,  pepper  and  onion  juice.  Fry  in  small  cakes  in  hot  fat, 
browning  on  both  sides.    Drain  on  paper.     Mary  T.  Henderson. 

FRIOLIK 

Fry  8  slices  bacon.  Add  6  onions  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Stew 
down  1  quart  can  of  tomatoes.  Add  3  small  cans  red  kidney  beans. 
Before  serving  add  %  pound  of  cheese  and  stir  till  melted. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Wheeler. 

"MAH  JONG" 

4  cups  tomatoes  1  cup  cheese 

1  cup  rice  Y2  cup  oil  (Wesson  or 

1  cup  boiling  water  Mazola) 

1  cup  olives  3  teaspoons  salt 

V2  cup  onions 

Mix  all  together,  put  in  pan  and  cook  in  hot  oven  2  hours. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Dey. 

NOODLE  RING 

1  package  fine  noodles  XA  cup  butter 

4  eggs  beaten  separately  Y2  teaspoon  salt 

V2  cup  milk 

Boil  noodles  20  minutes  in  salted  water.    Add  them  to  yolks  of  egg, 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


29 


Y2  cup  milk  and  V2  teaspoon  salt.  Lastly  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites. 

Melt  butter  in  noodle  ring,  fill  with  mixture  and  bake  Y2  hour  in  pan 
of  water  in  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  A.  S.  Wheeler. 

STUFFED  ONIONS 

Select  6  large  onions,  without  peeling,  soak  in  water  1  hour.  Drain, 
remove  skins,  and  with  sharp  knife  cut  out  center  of  each.  Mix  2 
tablespoons  of  finely  minced  ham,  or  other  cold  meat  with  half  cup  bread 
crumbs,  pour  over  this  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  tablespoon  cream, 
V2  teaspoon  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Fill  onions  with  this  mixture, 
place  in  baking  dish,  baste  with  melted  butter,  dust  crumbs  over  top  and 
bake  in  slow  oven  1  hour.    Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

PEAS,  CARROTS,  MUSHROOMS 

1  small  onion  chopped  fine  1  No.  2  can  peas 

1  teaspoon  salt  ^-lb.  can  mushrooms 

Vs  teaspoon  pepper  1  cup  carrots  (cut  very  fine 

Vs  teaspoon  paprika  and  cooked  tender) 

3  teaspoons  fat  1  No.  2  can  of  tomatoes  (op- 
V2  cup  mushroom  liquor  tional) 

V2  cup  milk  3  teaspoons  flour 

Combine  seasonings  and  flour  with  mushroom  liquor  for  a  sauce. 
Add  onion  and  cook  slowly  10  minutes.  Add  milk  and  cook  10  minutes 
longer. 

Slice  mushrooms  and  add  to  sauce  with  carrots  and  peas. 
Put  in  custard  cups  and  cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs.    Set  in 
oven  about  10  minutes.    Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

Mrs.  Ben  Warren. 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS 
Boil  8  green  peppers  5  minutes  in  quart  of  water  in  covered  pan, 
adding  1  teaspoon  salt.    Remove  from  pan  and  drain  in  sieve. 

Filling 

IY2  cup  cold  minced  cricken  3  tablespoons  green  pepper 

Y2  cup  cooked  celery,  diced  diced 
V2  cup  mushrooms  2  tablespoons  pimento 

Cream  Sauce 

4  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  paprika 
6  tablespoons  flour                         1  cup  chicken  stock 
1  teaspoon  salt                              2  cups  sweet  milk 

Boil  sauce  until  smooth  and  the  proper  consistency;  mix  with  filling, 
stuff  pepper,  and  bake  in  buttered  pan.         Mrs.  E.  W.  Knight. 

POTATO  PUFF 

Beat  2  cups  hot  mashed  Irish  potatoes  with  2  eggs  and  1  cup  cream 
until  light.  Add  2  tablespoons  melted  butter  and  1  scant  teaspoon  salt. 
Turn  into  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  well  puffed 
and  delicately  browned.  Mrs.  Harold  Meyer. 

BAKED  RICE  AND  CELERY— Serves  6 

1  cup  cooked  rice  1  cup  drawn  butter  sauce 

2  cups  cooked  diced  celery  1  tablespoon  minced  onion 
2  hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  small 

Mix  together  lightly  but  thoroughly;  cover  with  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter.    Bake.  Mrs.  A.  S.  Wheeler. 


30 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


SPANISH  RICE 

1  lb.  ground  veal  2  small  onions 

2  cups  cooked  rice  4  tablespoons  butter 

1  No.  2  can  tomatoes  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  small  green  peppers 

Brown  veal  in  the  butter,  then  add  chopped  peppers,  and  onions. 
Cook  until  peppers  are  soft.  Then  add  rice  and  tomatoes  and  cook  until 
thick.    Stir  often  to  keep  from  sticking. 


Mrs.  R.  W.  Bost. 


RISOTTO 


1  cup  rice  (uncooked)  1  can  Campbell's  Con- 

%  small  onion  somme  and  some 

1  tablespoon  butter  water 

6  medium  mushrooms 

Salt,  pepper  and  one  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 

Put  butter,  finely  cut  onions  and  rice  in  a  pan  and  cook  until  light 
brown.    Put  can  of  soup  into  quart  container  and  fill  up  with  water. 

Add  xh  this  to  rice  and  cook  20  minutes.  Add  rest  and  cook  until 
rice  is  done  but  not  mushy. 

Add  chopped  mushrooms,  salt,  pepper  and  cheese.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Lawson. 

ITALIAN  SPAGHETTI 
Sauce 

2  large  cans  tomatoes  2  cans  mushrooms 
2  cans  tomato  soup  Paprika 

Pinch  salt  1  lb.  round  steak  (ground) 

V2  teaspoon  celery  salt  1  medium  size  onion 

1  small  bayleaf  Pepper 
1  small  clove  garlic 

Boil  together  tomatoes  and  soup  for  V2  hour  (slowly).  Slice  and 
fry  onion  in  butter — not  too  brown — add  onions  to  sauce.  Fry  ham- 
burger in  same  pan,  stirring  constantly.  Add  to  sauce.  Add  salt,  celery 
salt,  bayleaf,  paprika,  and  garlic  (chopped  and  mashed).  Let  sauce 
boil  slowly  for  2  hours.    Add  mushrooms  and  let  boil  for  V2  hour. 

Spaghetti 

If  possible  use  extra  long  spaghetti.  Let  water  come  to  boil,  add  2 
or  3  teaspoons  salt.  Put  spaghetti  into  the  boiling  water,  stir  often 
enough  to  keep  from  sticking.  Don't  cook  until  quite  soft  because 
flavor  will  be  spoiled.  Drain,  then  allow  warm  water  to  run  through 
it.    Serve  with  sauce  and  grated  cheese. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Lyons. 


SPINACH  CASSEROLE 

1  cup  diced  chicken  1  large  can  spinach 

1  cup  rich  white  sauce 

Mix  chicken  and  sauce;  put  one  layer  of  chicken;  dot  with  butter; 
add  one  layer  of  spinach,  and  so  on  to  the  top  of  the  baking  dish.  Cover 
with  bread  crumbs  and  bake. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  McIntosh. 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


31 


SPINACH  GENOVESE 

%  peck  spinach  XA  cup  olive  oil 

3  chopped  anchovy  fillets 

Boil  spinach  till  tender  and  drain.  Have  saucepan  ready  with  the 
olive  oil  and  finely  chopped  anchovy  fillets,  and  cook  5  minutes.  Add 
spinach,  heat  well,  and  serve  garnished  with  slices  of  hard-cooked  egg. 

Mrs.  Harold  Meyer. 

SPINACH  RING 

Cook  spinach  in  usual  way.  Chop  fine  and  season  well.  Press  into 
well  buttered  ring  mold.  Place  in  pan  of  hot  water  to  keep  very  hot. 
To  serve  turn  out  on  hot  platter  and  fill  center  of  ring  with  tiny  whole- 
cooked  beets  seasoned  with  melted  butter.  Surround  mold  with  thick 
white  sauce  combined  with  chopped  pimento.  Ring  can  also  be  filled 
with  creamed  mushrooms  and  surrounded  with  cheese  sauce. 

Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 

SPINACH  SOUFFLE 

2  lbs.  spinach  sieved  1  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  grated  cheese 

3  tablespoons  flour  3  eggs 

Make  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour  and  milk.  Add  cheese.  Cool.  Add 
3  unbeaten  egg  yolks  and  spinach.  Then  add  3  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake 
at  350  degrees,  30  or  40  minutes.  Mrs.  John  M.  Booker. 

SWEET  POTATOES  WITH  ORANGE 

4  medium  sized  sweet  1  orange 

potatoes  8  marshmallows 

Cream  with  butter  the  sweet  potatoes  that  have  been  baked.  Sweeten 
to  taste.  Add  to  the  potatoes  juice  of  the  orange  and  the  grated  rind  of 
one-half  of  the  orange.  Butter  the  baking  dish,  then  put  the  potato 
mixture  in  oven  to  heat.  After  thoroughly  heating,  dot  marshmallows 
on  top  and  reheat.    Serve  immediately.        Mrs.  Frank  Graham. 

SWEET  POTATO  PONE 

2  cups  grated  raw  potato  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  milk  V2  cup  chopped  nuts 

2  eggs  well  beaten 

Blend  potato  with  sugar,  milk,  chopped  nuts,  eggs,  and  nutmeg. 
Pour  into  well  greased  glass  pie  plate — 10  inches  in  diameter — and  dot 
top  with  butter.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  (350  degrees)  until  set. 

Mrs.  M.  H.  Stacy. 


SQUASH  RING 

2  lbs.  yellow  squash  2  tablespoons  top  milk 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  (or  evaporated  milk, 

1  egg  undiluted) 

2  tablespoons  butter,  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

melted 

Boil  the  squash  until  tender.  Add  other  ingredients,  and  bake  until 
brown  (25  or  30  minutes)  in  a  moderate  oven  in  a  ring  or  any  mold 
desired.  Mrs.  Milton  Heath. 


32 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


MEXICAN  TOMATOES 


6  tomatoes,  sliced 

6  green  peppers,  sliced 

Salt  and  pepper 


6  onions 

2  cups  cracker  crumbs 
1/3  cup  bacon  fat 


In  greased  baking  dish  arrange  layers  of  tomatoes,  peppers,  onions 
and  season.  Cover  with  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs,  dot  with  bacon  fat 
and  repeat.  Bake  covered  in  a  hot  oven  (425  degrees  F.)  twenty  min- 
utes.   Uncover  and  brown.    Serves  six.         Mrs.  A.  D.  Perkins. 

BAKED  TOMATOES  WITH  MUSHROOMS 


1  large  can  mushrooms 

2  cups  coarse  toasted 

bread  crumbs 
4  tablespoons  butter 


4  tablespoons  chopped 

celery 
6  large  tomatoes 
Salt  and  pepper 


Melt  butter,  add  celery  and  onion,  cook  until  tender.  Add  chopped 
mushrooms  and  season  to  taste.  Add  crumbs,  simmer  three  minutes, 
then  add  pulp  from  scooped  out  tomatoes.  Stuff  tomatoes  with  this  mix- 
lure  and  place  in  well  buttered  casserole.  Baste  and  bake  about  30 
minutes.  Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 

TOMATOES  DE  LUXE 

Hollow  out  large,  firm  tomatoes,  put  an  egg  in  each.  Sprinkle  with 
salt,  pepper,  grated  cheese  and  a  strip  of  bacon  over  the  top.  Bake  20 
minutes  in  moderate  oven.    Serve  on  toast.     Mrs.  J.  P.  Harland. 


THE 
LITTLE  SHOP 

Specializes  in 

Sport,  Afternoon 

and 

Evening  Clothes 


Dr.  J.  P.  Jones 

Dentist 

Phone  5761 


Salads 


BILTMORE 

2  egg  yolks 
1  tablespoon  vinegar 
1  tablespoon  sugar 
Vz  lb.  marshmallows 

Cook  eggs,  vinegar  and  sugar  in 
until  quite  thick.  Cool  slightly  and 
then  gradually  add  the  pineapple  and 
in  chopped  nut  meats  last.    Serves  6 


SALAD 

5  slices  pineapple 

1  cup  nut  meats 

1  pt.  whipped  cream 

double  boiler,  stirring  constantly 
fold  in  the  whipped  cream  and 
marshmallows  cut  in  pieces.  Put 
or  8.    Mrs.  A.  R.  Newsome. 


JELLIED  CABBAGE  SALAD 

1  cup  shredded  cabbage  1  cup  hot  water 

1  cup  green  peas  3  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  cup  chopped  celery  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2^  tablespoons  gelatine  %  cup  sugar 

dissolved  in  %  cup  1  teaspoon  salt 

water  then  added  to 

Serve  with  mayonnaise.  Mrs.  H.  W.  Odum. 


CARROT  SALAD 

2  bunches  carrots  1  medium  onion 

1  whole  stalk  celery  2  hard-boiled  eggs 

Chop  mixture  with  mayonnaise,  and  serve  on  lettuce. 


CRANBERRY  SALAD 

2  cups  raw  cranberries  1  small  orange  (seeded) 

Run  through  food  chopper.  Cover  with  %  cup  sugar.  Let  stand  1 
hour.  Add  to  1  box  lemon  jello,  made  as  usual.  Add  %  cup  nuts  if 
desired.    Mold.  Mrs.  H.  W.  Odum. 


CHEESE  AND  FRUIT  SALAD 

Y2  cup  chopped  dates  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

V2  cup  crushed  pineapple  V2  cup  mayonnaise 

3  oz.  cream  cheese  Y2  cup  whipping  cream 

Mash  cheese,  add  mayonnaise,  and  blend  until  smooth  and  soft.  Fold 
into  whipped  cream.  Add  fruit  and  mix  lightly  but  thoroughly.  Pour 
into  freezing  tray  and  freeze  as  rapidly  as  possible.    Serves  6. 

Mrs.  R.  W.  Bost. 


BLACK  CHERRY  SALAD 

1  can  black  cherries  3  cakes  cream  cheese 

3  packages  orange  jello  4  oranges 

Drain  cherries  well,  pour  in  ring  mold.  Dissolve  jello  as  directed  on 
package.  Pour  Y2  over  cherries  and  let  congeal.  Mix  cheese  with 
Worcestershire  sauce,  a  little  salt  and  mayonnaise.  Spread  this  on  top 
of  cherries  and  place  sections  of  4  oranges  on  cheese;  then  pour  remain- 
ing half  of  jello,  and  congeal.  Serve  with  mayonnaise,  combined  with 
whipped  cream  to  which  chopped  toasted  almonds  have  been  added. 

Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 


34 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


CUCUMBER  JELLY  SALAD 

1  pt.  grated  cucumber  2  teaspoons  cold  water 
Salt  and  paprika  6  halves  walnut-meats 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  Mayonnaise 

1  tablespoon  oil  .  Lettuce  leaves 

1  teaspoon  gelatin 

Peel  cucumber,  removing  most  of  the  white  along  with  the  green 
skin.  Grate  enough  to  give  1  pt.  and  season  with  salt,  paprika,  vinegar 
and  oil.  Add  gelatine  mixed  with  cold  water.  Place  over  fire  until  warm 
and  well  mixed,  not  boiled.  In  the  bottom  of  individual  molds  put  a  half 
kernel  of  walnut,  then  pour  in  the  cucumber  mixture  and  set  in  re- 
frigerator to  cool.  When  ready  to  serve,  turn  each  mold  on  to  a  nest 
of  young  lettuce  leaves  and  add  mayonnaise.   Mrs.  J.  S.  Henninger. 

FROZEN  SALAD 

1  large  can  grated  1  package  cream  cheese 

pineapple  1  cup  whipped  cream 

12  marshmallows  %  cup  mayonnaise 

Cut  marshmallows  in  small  pieces,  mash  cream  cheese,  mix  all  to- 
gether. Add  pineapple,  cream  stiffly  whipped  and  dressing.  Mix  well. 
Fill  one  large  or  two  small  electric  refrigerator  pans  and  let  freeze  until 
firm.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaf  topped  with  mayonnaise  mixed  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Susan  C.  Southerland. 

PINEAPPLE,  CELERY  AND  NUT  SALAD 

iy2  cupfuls  canned  pine-  IV2  cupfuls  celery, 

apple,  cut  in  cubes  cut  in  pieces 

1  cupful  chopped  nuts 

Combine  pineapple,  celery  and  nuts.  Mix  with  Fruit  Salad  Dressing. 
Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with  cream  cheese  balls,  sprinkled 
with  paprika,  and  strips  of  green  pepper. 

FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

1  large  can  crushed  1  cup  blanched  almonds 

pineapple  24  marshmallows  cut  small 

1  large  can  white  Maraschino  cherries 

cherries — remove 
seed 

Mix  above. 

4  egg  yolks.  Beat  well  4  tablespoons  sugar 

4  tablespoons  taragon 
vinegar 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Stir  constantly  with  wooden 
spoon.  When  cold  mix  with  one  pint  stiffly  beaten  cream.  Add  to  fruit 
mixture  and  turn  into  freezing  pans.   Mrs.  Lawrence  Thompson. 

GINGER  ALE  SALAD 

1  can  sliced  pineapple  2  packages  lemon  Jello 

(cut)  %  lb.  blanched  almonds 

1  can  white  cherries  (cut) 

(cut)  1  bottle  ginger  ale 

Dissolve  Jello  in  fruit  juice  and  add  cup  of  hot  water.  After  it 
cools  add  other  ingredients.  Pour  in  mold  that  has  been  dipped  in  cold 
water.    Serve  with  mayonnaise.  Mrs.  H.  M.  Wagstaff. 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


35 


GOLDEN  GLOW  SALAD 

1  package  lemon  Jello  1  cup  crushed  pineapple 

2  cups  hot  water  1  cup  grated  carrots 
Juice  of  1  lemon  %  cup  chopped  nuts 

Dissolve  the  Jello  in  the  hot  water.  Add  the  lemon  juice  and  let 
stand  until  cool,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and  pour  into  wet 
molds.  Mrs.  R.  H.  Sherrill. 

GRAPE  SALAD 

1  package  lime  Jello  1  doz.  marshmallows 

1  lb.  white  grapes 

(seedless) 

Cut  grapes  and  marshmallows  fine.  Let  lime  Jello  nearly  congeal, 
then  add  grapes  and  marshmallows.  Place  in  refrigerator,  not  in  ice- 
tray.    Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise.    Mrs.  Edward  J.  Snow. 

MATALEA'S  SALAD 

2  cups  cottage  cheese  2  tablespoons  gelatine, 
1  cup  tomato  catsup  plain 

2/3  cup  French  dressing  1  package  lime  Jello 

1  cup  mayonnaise  1  small  bottle  stuffed 

olives,  sliced 

Make  Jello  according  to  directions  on  package.  When  cool,  pour 
into  wet  mold,  add  sliced  olives  and  put  aside  to  congeal.  Mix  cheese, 
tomato  catsup,  French  dressing  and  mayonnaise,  blending  well.  When 
jelly  is  firm,  pour  cheese  mixture  over  jelly  and  set  in  ice  box  until 
ready  to  serve.  Unmold,  garnish  with  slices  of  avocado  pear,  grape- 
fruit and  crisp  lettuce  leaves.    Serve  with  mayonnaise.    Serves  12. 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Perkins. 

MAYONNAISED  CHICKEN 

1  hen  2  cups  stiff  mayonnaise 

1  cup  celery  1  cup  skimmed  stock 

1  cup  almonds  2  envelopes  Knox  Gelatin 

4  hard-boiled  eggs  2  cups  sweet  Chow  Chow 


2  cups  English  peas 
1  cup  boiling  water 


(not  drained) 
cup  cold  water 


Boil  chicken  until  tender.  Dice  chicken,  celery,  almonds,  and  eggs. 
Drain  peas.  Dissolve  gelatin  in  cold  water.  Then  add  boiling  water 
and  hot  stock.  Cool  and  then  add  mayonnaise  and  mix  well.  Add  re- 
maining ingredients.  Put  in  Mary  Ann  cake  shell  molds  to  congeal. 
When  ready  to  serve  turn  out  and  fill  centers  with  tomato  aspic  cut  in 
blocks.  Place  pimentos  diced  and  whole  stuffed  olives  on  top  of  may- 
onnaise.   Serves  20  people.  Mrs.  Frank  Graham's  Cook. 


BLUSHING  PEAR  SALAD 

Use  two  cans  of  halved  pears.  Dry  pears  thoroughly  and  with  soft 
camel's  hair  paint  brush  tint  the  pear,  starting  at  the  large  end  and 
shading  up  to  natural  color.  Use  red  vegetable  coloring.  Rub  up  Phila- 
delphia cream  cheese  with  pepper,  salt,  celery  seed  and  chopped  nuts. 
Make  a  ball  of  cheese  and  put  in  hollow  of  pear.  Squeeze  gently  two 
halves  together.  Stick  a  clove  in  large  bottom  end  and  a  green  leaf 
in  other  end.    Serve  on  platter  with  lettuce  and  mayonnaise. 


36 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


MRS.  PAT'S  SLAW 

To  shredded  cabbage  add  a  suggestion  of  onion.  Marinate  with 
sugar  and  vinegar  to  taste.  When  ready  to  serve,  drain  well  and  mix 
with  homemade  mayonnaise. 

TOMATO  ASPIC 

1  qt.  can  tomatoes  2  stalks  celery 

6  cloves  2  tablespoons  tomato 

1  small  onion  catsup 

2  teaspoons  salt  1  box  Gelatin 

2  teaspoons  sugar  1  cup  cold  water 
xk  teaspoon  black  pepper  Cayenne  to  taste 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  cold  water.  Boil  other  ingredients  together  until 
onion,  tomatoes,  and  celery  are  soft,  then  while  boiling  hot  stir  in  gela- 
tin. Strain,  pour  in  individual  molds.  Chill.  Serve  on  lettuce  with 
mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Bruce  Whitmire. 

TOMATO-CHEESE  SALAD 

Serves  Eight 

1  cup  (small  can)  tomato  %  cup  cold  water 

soup  1  cup  mayonnaise 

3  packages  Philadelphia  IV2  cups  chopped  celery, 

cream  cheese  green  pepper  and 

2  tablespoons  gelatin  onion 

Boil  soup,  add  cheese,  and  whip  until  melted.  Add  gelatin  which 
has  been  soaked  in  cold  water.  Cool.  Add  last  two  ingredients  and 
pour  into  shallow  pan  and  chill.    Cut  in  squares  and  serve  on  lettuce. 

Mrs.  Y.  Z.  Cannon. 

WALDORF  SALAD 

Cut  sour  crisp  apples  into  half  inch  dice,  add  an  equal  quantity  of 
chopped  celery,  salt  to  taste  and  mix  with  mayonnaise.  If  liked  add 
1  cup  sliced  English  walnuts  to  each  cup  of  the  apples  and  celery. 

MISCELLANEOUS  SUGGESTIONS 

The  following  will  also  be  found  good  combinations  for  salads.  Ar- 
range in  an  attractive  way  on  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  French, 
mayonnaise,  or  boiled  dressing  as  preferred. 

Asparagus  and  pimentos. 

Sliced  cucumber  and  tomato. 

Sliced  tomato,  finely  minced  onion,  and  shreds  of  green  pepper. 
Cubes  of  cold  Irish  potato,  chopped  hard-boiled  eggs  and  celery. 
Ring  of  green  peas  with  minced  chicken  and  celery  in  center. 
Nuts  and  green  peas  in  tomato  shells. 
Sweetbreads  and  celery. 

Chicken,  firm  portion  of  tomato  cut  in  small  pieces,  celery. 
Cream  cheese,  nuts  and  parsley  mixed  well  and  molded  in  balls. 
Grapefruit  and  strawberries,  or  grapefruit  and  bananas. 
Malaga  grapes,  seeded  and  cut  in  half,  celery  and  nuts. 
Pineapple,  maraschino  cherries  and  crystallized  ginger. 
Large  peaches,  peeled  and  halved,  seed  cavities  filled  with  chopped 
almonds. 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


37 


DRESSING  FOR  COLE  SLAW 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  Yz  cup  vinegar 

%  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter 

Beat  eggs,  melted  butter  and  sugar,  add  vinegar,  cook  until  thick. 
Add  celery  seed,  salt,  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  thin  with  a  little  cream. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  White. 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

%  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  vinegar 

%  teaspoon  pepper  or  lemon 

%  cup  olive  oil 

Rub  bowl  with  garlic  or  onion.    Have  all  ingredients  cold.  Beat. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

1/3  cup  lemon  juice  Yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten 

V2  cup  orange  juice  1  cup  sugar 

1/3  cup  pineapple  juice 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Cool.  Fold  in  %  pint  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  E.  E.  Peacock. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

1  cup  whipping  cream  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoon  powdered  Pinch  of  salt 

sugar  1  ripe  banana 

Add  sugar  to  cream  and  whip.  Add  lemon  juice  to  bananas,  after 
they  have  been  well  mashed,  and  combine  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Harry  F.  Comer. 

MAGIC  MAYONNAISE 

2/3  cup  sweetened  con-  rA  cup  salad  oil  or  melted 

densed  milk  (not  butter 
evaporated)  1  egg  yolk 

%  cup  vinegar  or  lemon  %  teaspoon  salt 

juice  Few  grains  cayenne 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

Place  ingredients  in  mixing  bowl.  Beat  with  rotary  egg  beater  until 
mixture  thickens.  If  thicker  consistency  is  desired,  place  in  refrigerator 
to  chill  before  serving.    Makes  l1/*  cups.  Mrs.  E.  C.  Penn. 


ELECTRIC  CONSTRUCTION  CO. 

108  N.  Columbia  St.— T.  A.  Rosemond,  Mgr. 
ELECTRICAL  CONTRACTING  APPLIANCES 

Service  on  Electric  Ranges  a  Specialty 
All  Service  Calls  Handled  Promptly 

Phone  6901 


38  The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 

SALAD  DRESSING 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  large  teaspoon  celery 
1  teaspoon  sugar  seed 

V2  teaspoon  mustard  Yz  teaspoon  Worcester- 
1  large  teaspoon  white  shire  sauce 

mustard  seed  1  pinch  red  pepper 

Stir  all  together.  Add  2  tablespoonfuls  tomato  catsup.  Drop  in 
oil  slowly,  using  y2  pint  Wesson  oil,  juice  of  V2  lemon,  2  tablespoons 
vinegar.  Mrs.  Fred  Hanes,  Durham. 

Through  Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 

RUSSIAN  DRESSING 

To  a  stiff  mayonnaise  add  enough  chili  sauce  to  make  right  con- 
sistency. Then  add  chopped  green  peppers  and  hard-boiled  eggs.  This 
is  delicious  served  over  head  of  lettuce.         Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 

TARTAR  SAUCE 

1  cup  mayonnaise  1  tablespoon  chopped 

2  tablespoons  chopped  olives 

sweet  pickle  1  tablespoon  finely 

1  tablespoon  chopped  chopped  chives 

capers 

Combine  and  serve  with  egg  and  fish  salads.  Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 

THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING 

2  tablespoons  finely  2  tablespoons  Chili  sauce 

chopped  pimentos  2  hardcooked  eggs,  chopped 

2  tablespoons  minced  chives  V2  cup  heavy  cream 

2  tablespoons  tomato 

catsup 

Mix  in  order  given  and  add  to  1  cup  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Carroll. 


Sauces  for  Meats  and  Vegetables 

MILLER  SAUCE  FOR  BARBECUED  MEATS 

1  cup  tomato  catsup  1  lemon 

V2  cup  vinegar  Tabasco  sauce  or  red 

2  tablespoons  butter  pepper  to  taste 

Let  boil  in  sauce  pan  for  few  minutes  and  baste  meat  with  this 
while  roasting.  Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 

COCKTAIL  SAUCE 

1  tablespoon  mayonnaise  1  teaspoon  horseradish 
Juice  of  half  a  lemon  (soaked  for  10 

4  tablespoons  Chili  sauce  minutes  in  1  table- 

V2  teaspoon  Worcester-  spoon  cold  water) 
shire  sauce 

Mix  and  chill  thoroughly  before  serving.  Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 

CRANBERRY  CONSERVE 

2  cups  cranberries  %  cup  English  walnut 

3  cups  sugar  meats,  cut  coarse 
1  large  orange 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


39 


Add  orange  juice  to  cranberries.  Put  rind  of  orange  through  food 
chopper.  Mix  all  ingredients.  Boil  twenty  minutes,  watching  con- 
stantly that  it  does  not  burn. 

Gooseberries  may  be  used  instead  of  cranberries  and  the  recipe 
makes  a  delicious  gooseberry  conserve.      Mrs.  Frank  W.  Hanft. 

CUCUMBER  SAUCE 
Grind  peeled  cucumber  fine.    Drain  through  colander  or  cloth  for  10 
hours  or  overnight.    To  every  pint,  add: 

1  tablespoon  salt  1  teaspoon  ground  mustard 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  large  or  2  small  onions 

2  tablespoons  white  grated  or  ground  fine 

mustard  seed  %  pt.  vinegar 

Mix  and  put  in  small  jars  and  cover  well  with  the  vinegar. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Lay. 


SAUCE  FOR  HARVARD  BEETS 

1  tablespoon  butter 

V2  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  corn  starch 

Cook  until  thick.  Pour  while  hot  over  cooked  diced  beets,  and  let 
stand  for  few  minutes.  Mrs.  Irene  F.  Lee. 

NEVER  FAIL  HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

%  cup  water  %  stick  butter 

Juice  from  one  lemon  XA  teaspoon  salt 

2  egg  yolks — beat  well  Dash  red  pepper 
2  tablespoons  corn  starch  Paprika 

Heat  water  and  lemon  juice  and  pour  over  other  ingredients  which 
have  been  creamed.  Put  into  double  boiler  and  cook  until  proper  con- 
sistency. Stir  constantly  with  wooden  spoon.  If  lumpy,  beat  with  egg 
beater.  Mrs.  Lawrence  Thompson. 


ORANGE-CRANBERRY  RELISH 

1  lb.  cranberries  Granulated  sugar 

1  large  or  two  small 
oranges 

Wash  fruit,  and  dry.  Remove  seed  from  oranges.  Grind  oranges, 
rind  and  pulp,  through  food  chopper.  Grind  berries.  Take  cup  for 
cup  fruit  pulp  and  granulated  sugar,  mix  thoroughly.  Allow  to  stand 
24  to  48  hours  in  refrigerator  before  using.  Will  keep  for  weeks  if 
kept  in  icebox.    Use  with  turkey  or  meat.  Mrs.  Grace  N.  Mangum. 


PEPPER  SAUCE 

12  green  peppers  3  cups  sugar 

12  red  peppers  3  tablespoons  salt 

12  large  white  onions  3  tablespoons  mustard  seed 

1  qt.  vinegar 

Wash  peppers  and  remove  seeds  and  white  part.  Peel  onions.  Chop 
peppers  and  onions  fine  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Let  stand  15 
minutes  and  drain.  Add  other  ingredients  to  the  peppers  and  onions, 
mix  thoroughly  and  boil  15  minutes.    Seal  in  hot  sterilized  jar. 

Mrs.  John  Woosley. 


Printing 

Is  the  Inevitable 

Companion  of 

Achievement 

The 

♦ 

Orange  Printshop 

A  Complete  Printing  Service 

Box  271 

CHAPEUHILL,  N.  C.           Phone  3781 

Breads 


BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT 

2  cups  flour  4  tablespoons  shortening 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  2/3  cup  milk 

Y2  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  and  sift  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Work  in  shortening 
with  finger  tips  until  mixture  looks  like  coarse  meal.  Make  a  well  in 
center,  add  the  milk  all  at  once  and  stir  until  well  mixed.  (This  should 
form  a  soft  dough;  if  it  does  not,  add  a  little  more  milk).  Turn  out  on 
lightly  floured  board  and  knead  quickly  while  you  count  ten.  Pat  or 
roll  out  lightly  to  about  one-half  the  thickness  you  desire  your  baked 
biscuit  to  be.  Cut  and  place  on  baking  sheet.  Bake  in  quick  oven  (450 
degrees  F.)  about  12  minutes.  Mrs.  W.  M.  Pugh. 

BEATEN  BISCUIT 

1  lb.  flour  1  cup  ice  water 

%  lb.  lard  1  tablespoon  salt 

Make  stiff  dough  that  is  pliable  but  not  hard  or  dry.  I  use  South- 
ern flour.  I  also  use  only  pure  lard.  You'll  have  to  use  a  little  extra 
flour  to  work  with.    Work  well,  put  in  hot  oven  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

Mrs.  Julia  Graves. 

BISCUIT  (SOUR  MILK) 

1  teaspoon  salt  x/4  teaspoon  soda  (if 
2%  cups  flour  milk  is  fresh) 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  %  teaspoon  soda  (if 
1  cup  milk  milk  is  sour) 

%  cup  shortening 

Sift  dry  ingredients.  Cut  in  shortening  and  add  milk.  Roll  to  any 
desired  size  and  bake.  Mrs.  R.  W.  Madry. 

BISCUIT  (TEA) 

IV2  pts.  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  sugar  2  level  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  milk  (or  more)  2  level  tablespoons 

1  egg  snowdrift 

Sift  dry  ingredients.  Cut  in  shortening  and  add  milk  and  egg.  Roll 
and  cut  desired  size  and  bake.  Mrs.  R.  W.  Madry. 

BREAKFAST  CAKE 

4  cups  flour  (all  purpose)  1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
%  cup  shortening  3  eggs 

(butter  and  lard)  Pinch  of  ground  nutmeg 

1  cup  chopped  nuts 
Mix  flour,  sugar,  shortening  and  baking  powder  together  until  they 
form  crumbs.    Save  enough  crumbs  to  sprinkle  on  top  of  cake.  Then 
add  eggs  (well  beaten),  milk,  nuts  and  nutmeg.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  McG.  Hedgpeth. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD 

2  cups  buttermilk  1  tablespoon  soda 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  baking-powder 

1  cup  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  meal  1  cup  raisins 

1  cup  Graham  flour 


42 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


Sift  meal,  flour  and  Graham  flour,  baking  powder,  soda  and  salt. 
Add  mixed  molasses  and  buttermilk.  Beat  well.  Fill  greased  cans  2/3 
full  with  top  lightly  on.    Steam  3  hours.    Mrs.  John  M.  Booker. 

CHEESE  BISCUITS 

1  lb.  cheese,  American  %  teaspoon  mustard 

%  lb.  butter  %  teaspoon  salt  and 

1  lb.  flour  (4  cups)  cayenne  pepper 

1  teaspoon  sugar 

Cream  butter  in  a  bowl  sitting  in  a  pan  of  hot  water;  grate  cheese 
and  mix  gradually  with  butter,  blending  well.  Add  seasoning,  then  sift 
in  flour  gradually  and  mix  well.  Place  in  refrigerator  at  least  half  an 
hour  to  chill;  roll  out  XA  inch  in  thickness  and  cut  out  biscuits.  Bake 
in  stove  at  about  400  degrees  F.  from  12  to  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  M.  R.  Eason. 

CHEESE  STRAWS 

1  lb.  cheese  %  lb.  butter 

1  lb.  flour  Salt  and  red  pepper 

Work  into  very  stiff  dough  and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven.  Make 
either  biscuits  or  sticks.  Mrs.  C.  T.  Woollen. 

CORN  BATTER  CAKES 

2  cups  sifted  cornmeal  1  tablespoon  lard,  melted 
%  cup  flour  1  egg 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  l1^  cups  milk  (ap- 

y2  teaspoon  salt  proximately) 
1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  one  cup  of  milk  to  the  egg 
and  add  to  the  dry  ingredients.  Then  add  the  melted  shortening  and 
enough  more  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.    Bake  as  griddle  cakes. 

Mrs.  Paul  Green. 

DATE  BREAD 

I  1  cup  sugar  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

*  1  xk  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

%  cup  boiling  water  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  dates  chopped  V2  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  Vanilla 

Pour  boiling  water  over  dates.  Mix  butter,  sugar,  egg.  Add  alter- 
nately flour  and  dates.  Add  salt,  soda,  vanilla  and  nuts.  Bake  in  loaf 
pans  about  45  minutes  to  1  hour.    300-400  degrees. 

Mrs.  Quinlan  from  Mrs.  Butler. 

MELROSE  BANANA  TOAST 
Thick  slices  bread  well  buttered.    Cover  with  sliced  bananas  and 
sugar.    Broil  until  nicely  browned.    Serve  with  cream  and  brown  sugar 
_hot.  Mrs-  j-  p-  Harland. 

BRAN  MUFFINS 

1  cup  flour  lA/4  cups  milk 

1  teaspoon  soda  Y2  cup  molasses 

1  teaspoon  salt  M.  cup  melted  butter 

2  cups  bran  1  egg 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


43 


Mix  and  sift  flour,  soda,  and  salt.  Add  bran,  milk  and  molasses. 
Add  egg,  well  beaten.   Add  butter.    Bake  in  moderate  oven,  375  degrees. 

Mrs.  John  M.  Booker. 

MUFFINS— CORN 

1  cup  meal  2  tablespoons  shortening 

1  cup  flour  XA  cup  sugar 

2  eggs  IV2  cups  milk 
5  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar.  Add  well  beaten  eggs,  then  meal  and 
flour  which  have  been  sifted  with  baking  powder  and  salt.  Melt  short- 
ening until  it  smokes  in  muffin  pans  and  fill  half  full.  Bake  at  400 
degrees  for  20  minutes.  Mrs.  Carroll's  Cook. 

PECAN  MUFFINS 

1/3  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

4  tablespoons  shortening  3  tablespoons  corn  meal 

2  eggs  1  cup  milk 

2%  cups  flour  V2  cup  pecans  (finely 
Y2    teaspoon  salt  chopped) 

Cream  the  sugar  and  shortening  together.  Add  the  egg  yolks  and 
beat  well.  Sift  together  the  flour,  baking  powder  and  cornmeal,  and 
add  to  the  first  mixture  alternately  with  the  milk.  Beat  until  smooth, 
then  add  nuts  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  until  stiff.  Bake  in 
well  greased  muffin  pans  about  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  T.  Brown. 

NUT  BREAD 

2  eggs  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  melted 

3  cups  sifted  flour  shortening  (butter) 
1  cup  sugar                                  1  cup  ground  black 

1  teaspoon  salt  walnuts,  floured 

Beat  eggs  very  light,  add  sugar,  beat  well.  Then  add  milk  and 
flour  (sifted  with  the  salt  and  baking  powder)  alternately.  Add  melted 
butter.  The  secret  of  this  recipe  is  to  grind  the  nuts,  not  chop  them. 
If  desired,  about  one-fourth  the  cup  of  nuts  may  be  chopped,  but  the 
remainder  should  be  run  through  the  meat  grinder.  Add  the  nuts,  then 
set  to  rise  in  warm  place  (in  buttered  bread  pan)  for  twenty  minutes. 
This  bread  doubles  itself  in  size.  Bake  in  oven  at  350  degrees  for  about 
one  hour.  Mrs.  T.  S.  Graves. 

ORANGE  NUT  BREAD 

2  eggs  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  cup  sugar                                   2  tablespoons  Crisco 

%  cup  milk  %  cup  nut  meats 

3  cups  flour  V2  cup  chopped  orange 
1  teaspoon  salt  peel  (fresh) 

Beat  eggs  with  sugar.  Stir  in  milk  alternately  with  flour,  salt,  and 
baking  powder  sifted  together.  Add  melted  Crisco  and  chopped  nut 
meats  and  orange  peel  dredged  with  flour.  Pour  into  greased  pan. 
Allow  to  stand  15  minutes  before  putting  in  oven.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  (350  degrees  F.)  for  40  minutes  or  longer.  If  more  orange  peel 
is  desired,  decrease  the  nuts  accordingly.    Mrs.  Dudley  Cowden. 


44 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


ICE-BOX  ROLLS 

Dissolve  1  yeast  cake  in  1/6  cup  lukewarm,  water.  Take  Yk  cup 
sugar,  Vz  tablespoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  put  in  a  deep 
bowl.    Pour  over  this  1  cup  boiling  water.    Let  cool. 

When  lukewarm  add  to  it  the  yeast  cake  and  1  beaten  egg  yolk,  2 
cups  flour.  Stir  this  mixture  well.  Now  add  iy2  cups  flour  and  well- 
beaten  egg  white.  Make  into  soft  sponge,  put  in  icebox  immediately, 
and  keep  over  night. 

Grease  hands  with  melted  butter  and  make  out  into  rolls,  using  a 
little  flour,  and  let  rise  3  hours  before  baking. 

Mrs.  S.  G.  Sanders. 

QUICK  ROLLS 

1  cake  yeast  V2  cup  lard  or  butter  melted 

1  pint  milk  1  tablespoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar  IY2  pts.  sifted  flour 

Dissolve  the  yeast  in  the  lukewarm  milk.  Add  the  sugar,  butter, 
and  salt.  Stir  in  the  flour  and  mix  well.  Set  in  a  warm  place  for  30 
minutes  to  rise.  Then  knead  in  enough  flour  to  keep  dough  from  being 
sticky.  Turn  on  floured  board  and  knead  until  dough  is  smooth.  Let 
rise  until  double  in  bulk.  Then  turn  on  board  and  roll  one  inch  thick, 
cut  and  form  rolls,  and  let  double  in  bulk  again  and  bake  at  400  de- 
grees. Mrs.  R.  W.  Bost. 

SALLY  LUNN 

2  cups  flour  Pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  milk  Nutmeg  to  taste 

1  egg  yolk  2  rounding  teaspoons 
Y2  cup  sugar  baking  powder 

2  heaping  tablespoons 

butter 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt  together.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar  together,  and  add  alternately  flour  mixture  and  milk.  Batter 
should  be  thick.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  20-30  minutes. 

Mrs.  P.  J.  Sinclair. 

SOUTHERN  PANCAKES 

1  pt.  buttermilk  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  eggs  1  tablespoon  sugar 
Y2  teaspoon  salt 


Do  Your  Trading  with 

G.  H.  Ray 

The  Friendly  Market 

Best  Prices  in  Town  We  Deliver  Phone  7841 

We  Appreciate  Your  Business 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


45 


Beat  egg  yolks  well.  Add  milk,  to  which  soda  has  been  added.  Sift 
dry  ingredients  and  add  to  milk  and  egg  mixture.  Fold  in  egg  whites 
stiffly  beaten. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Henninger. 

SPOON  BREAD 

2  cups  scalded  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

Y2  cup  corn  meal  2  tablespoons  melted 
2  eggs  butter 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Add  meal  gradually  to  scalded  milk,  mixing  well.  Let  stand  until 
cool.  Add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  baking  powder,  salt,  and  butter,  then 
beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  well  buttered  shallow  baking  dish,  and 
bake  in  moderate  (300  degrees)  oven  for  1  hour.    Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Lily  H.  Brown. 


WAR-TIME  BATTER  BREAD  OR  SPOON  BREAD 

1  cup  corn  meal  (  white)  1  tablespoon  shortening, 

2  cups  boiling  water  butter  preferred 
V2  teaspoon  salt,  or  to  taste               2  eggs 

Milk  as  directed 

Scald  meal,  adding  salt  and  working  smooth  with  back  of  spoon 
Melt  butter  in  baking  dish,  shaking  around  to  prevent  sticking  on  side, 
pouring  what  is  left  into  scalded  meal.  Break  into  tea  cup  the  eggs, 
beat  thoroughly,  add  milk  to  fill  cup.  Stir  again  and  pour  into  meal, 
after  which  pour  whole  into  baking  dish  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until 
set  and  brown. 

One  teaspoon  baking  powder  may  be  added  but  this  is  not  needed  if 
the  oven  is  very  hot. 

Mrs.  Walter  D.  Toy. 


VELVET  WAFFLES 

2  cups  flour  3  egg  yolks,  well  beaten 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  1%  cups  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  Wesson  oil 

1  tablespoon  sugar  3  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 

Sift  flour  and  measure.  Resift  into  a  mixing  bowl  with  baking 
powder,  salt  and  sugar.  Mix  the  milk  and  Wesson  oil  with  the  well 
beaten  egg  yolks.  Turn  all  at  once  into  sifted  dry  ingredients  and  beat 
until  smooth.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  white.  Bake  on  hot  waffle 
iron.    Serve  hot  with  honey,  jam,  maple  or  cane  syrup. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  Hogan. 


WAFFLES  (SOUR  MILK) 

1  pt.  sour  milk,  1  pt.  flour 

clabbered  1  small  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  and  let  stand  over  night,  then  add  2  eggs  beaten  together,  1 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and  1  heaping  tablespoon 
butter  melted.    Can  be  used  at  once. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Lay. 


Telephone 

7766 

for 

Gold  Seal  Gra< 

de  A  Milk 

Gold  Seal  Ice  Cream 

Golden  Flake  Buttermilk 
;         Whipping  Cream 
!          Coffee  Cream 

Golden  Guernsey  Milk 

Lactic  Milk 

Cottage  Cheese 
Chocolate  Milk 
Butter 
Mellow  Milk 
Buttermilk 
Mel-o-rich 

Durham  Dairy 

Products 

140  East  Franklin  Street 

"CHAPEL  HILL'S  COMPLETE  DAIRY  SERVICE" 

Compliments  of 

CAROLINA  COFFEE  SHOP 

Chapel  Hill,  N.  C. 


John  Foushee 

General  Insurance 

LIFE— Phone  9821  FIRE,  AUTO— Phone  9461 

136  E.  Franklin  St.  Modinos  Building 


Desserts  and  Puddings 


APPLE  CRISP  PUDDING 

Peel  and  core  6  or  8  apples  and  cut  in  slices  %  inch  thick  to  make 
4  cups  of  apples. 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  %  cup  water 

7  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  sugar 

(V2  cup)  %  cup  flour  (cake 

preferred) 

Butter  casserole,  add  apples  and  pour  over  the  water  and  cinnamon 
mixed.  Work  together  sugar,  flour,  and  butter  with  finger  tips  until 
crumbly,  spread  over  the  apple  mixture,  and  bake  uncovered  for  one 
hour.    Serve  warm  topped  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Harland. 

BANANA  ICE-BOX  CAKE 

1  package  Graham  wafers  1  pt.  heavy  cream 

6  bananas 

Whip  cream,  sweeten,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Crush  wafers  with 
rolling  pin  to  fine  crumbs.  Line  a  square  baking  dish  with  waxed  paper. 
Fill  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  crumbs,  sliced  bananas  (fairly  thin) 
and  whipped  cream,  being  sure  the  top  and  bottom  layers  are  crumbs. 
Place  in  refrigerator  at  least  12  hours  before  using.  Cut  in  squares. 
Top  each  with  rosette  of  whipped  cream  and  a  cherry. 

Mrs.  Grace  N.  Mangum. 

BLACKBERRY  PUDDING 

xk  cup  sugar  1  egg 

1  cup  sour  milk  Y2  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  soda  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

IY2  cups  flour  1  qt.  blackberries  or 

1  tablespoon  lard  dewberries 
Dissolve  soda  in  milk.  Add  to  beaten  egg.    Sift  dry  ingredients  and 

add.  Crush  berries,  melt  lard,  and  add.  Beat  well.  Put  in  greased 
baking  dish.  Cook  45  minutes  in  moderate  oven,  covering  the  first 
15  minutes  to  prevent  browning  too  early.    Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  T.  D.  Rose. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE-BOX  PUDDING 

2  cakes  German  sweet  3  tablespoons  boiling 

chocolate  (or  Y2  lb.  water 

Dot  chocolate)  4  eggs 

2  doz.  lady  fingers  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  powdered 

sugar 

Melt  the  chocolate  in  a  double  boiler.  Line  a  pan  with  wax  paper 
and  then  lady  fingers.  Save  at  least  1  dozen  for  crumbling  into  the 
chocolate.  Add  to  chocolate  the  sugar  and  water.  Then  add  one  at  a 
time  the  yolks  of  the  four  eggs,  beating  after  each  yolk.  Remove  from 
the  stove  and  add  the  vanilla  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  four  egg 
whites  and  the  crumbled  lady  fingers.  Pour  into  the  lined  pan  and  set 
in  the  refrigerator  for  several  hours,  then  unmold  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream.  Mrs.  M.  S.  Breckenridge. 

CHOCOLATE  ROLL 

Cream  together  6  egg  yolks,  and  6  tablespoons  of  confectioner's 
sugar,  and  add  2  squares  of  chocolate  melted;  1  tablespoon  of  pastry 


48 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


flour;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  1  teaspoon  soda.  Whip  6  egg 
whites  very  stiff  and  add  to  mixture.  Butter  and  flour  baking  sheet. 
Spread  mixture  on  sheet  and  bake  7  to  10  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
When  baked  turn  on  damp  cloth  and  cover  with  damp  cloth. 

Filling:  Whip  pint  cream,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  powdered  sugar 
to  taste.  Spread  on  the  cake.  Roll  the  cake  over  with  bottom  cloth. 
Cover  with  chocolate  icing.  Sprinkle  with  nuts  and  put  in  ice  box  for 
an  hour  or  two  before  serving.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Mebane. 

STEAMED  CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

1  tablespoon  butter  j  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
%  cup  sugar          ) cream  Y2  square  chocolate  or 
Add  1  egg  well  beaten  2  tablespoons  cocoa 
1/3  cup  milk — %  cup  flour  %  teaspoon  salt 

Pour  into  buttered  mold.  Cover  and  steam  1  to  IY2  hours.  Serve 
with  sauce. 

Sauce  for  Above 

%  cup  butter,  1  cup  XXXX  sugar.  Cream  and  add  V2  teaspoon 
vanilla  and  XA  cup  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Bullitt. 

DATE  PUDDING 

2  eggs  1  heaping  tablespoon  flour 
1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
1  cup  walnuts  Vanilla 

1  cup  dates  (cut) 

Mix  in  order  given  after  beating  eggs  well.  Bake  20  minutes  in 
moderate  oven  (375  degrees).  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  (If  baked  in 
9-inch-square  cake  pan  it  cuts  9  pieces).  It  may  be  broken  up  and 
served  in  sherbet  glasses  with  cream  on  top.  Be  sure  to  let  cool  before 
removing  from  pan.    Can  be  baked  the  day  before. 

Mrs.  M.  L.  Jacobs. 
GRAHAM  CRACKER  PUDDING 

16  graham  crackers —  V2  to  2/3  box  dates  cut 
crumble  and  save  coarsely 

some  to  roll  on  outside  1  cup  chopped  nuts 
1  small  box  marshmallows 
cut  in  half 

Bind  together  with  cream  or  1  cup  wine.    Let  stand.    Serve  with 

whipped  cream.  Mrs.  J.  P.  Harland. 

LEMON  SPONGETTES 

1  cup  sugar  4  tablespoons  flour 

IV2  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  butter 

Grated  rind  and  juice  Pinch  of  salt 

of  one  lemon  3  eggs 

Cream  butter;  add  sugar,  flour,  salt,  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Stir  in 
beaten  yolks  mixed  with  milk.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Pour 
into  custard  cups  and  set  in  pan  of  hot  water  in  moderate  oven.  Bake 
about  45  minutes.  When  done  each  cup  will  contain  custard  at  bottom 
and  sponge  cake  on  top. 

Mrs.  M.  H.  Stacy. 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


49 


MARY'S  PUDDING 

3  cups  water  Butter  size  of  an  egg 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  these  in  a  shallow  pan  and  boil  10  minutes. 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cocoa 

IV2  cups  flour  1  cup  dates  or  raisins 

2  tablespoons  baking  1  cup  nuts 

powder  V2  cup  milk 

Mix  these  ingredients  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  in  the  sauce.  Bake 
in  oven  25  minutes.    Serve  hot  in  sauce  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Fred  Patterson. 


BOILED  MOLASSES  PUDDING 

%  cup  molasses  1  rounded  tablespoon 
1  or  slightly  more  than  soda  put  in  milk 

1  cup  milk  1  package  seeded  raisins 
4  cups  flour  chopped 
Butter  size  of  egg 

Put  mixture  in  coffee  cans  and  cook  for  about  four  hours.  (Put 
cans  in  large  vessel  and  under  each  can  place  a  pan).  Be  sure  both 
the  cans  and  the  lids  are  well  greased. 

Serve  pudding  with  wine  sauce. 

Miss  Alice  Noble. 


ORANGE  BAVARIAN  CREAM  (UNCOOKED) 

To  juice  of  three  oranges  and  grated  rind  of  1  orange  add  2  level 
tablespoons  gelatin,  stir.  To  3  egg  yolks  well  beaten  add  %  cup  granu- 
lated sugar,  stir  and  add  juice  1  lemon,  add  orange  and  gelatin  mixture 
slowly,  stirring  while  adding  same. 

3  egg  whites  beaten  and 

V2  cup  whipping  cream,  whipped.  Fold  these  into  the  above  mix- 
ture when  it  begins  to  thicken. 

If  the  gelatin  does  not  dissolve  sufficiently  in  the  orange  juice,  the 
bowl  can  be  placed  over  hot  water  for  a  few  minutes. 

Mrs.  James  M.  Bell. 


24-HOUR  SALAD  DESSERT 

2  cups  white  cherries  2  cups  quartered  marsh- 
halved  and  seeded  mallows 

2  cups  diced  pineapple  %  lb.  blanched  almonds, 
2  cups  orange  sections  chopped 

Make  dressing  of  2  eggs  beaten  until  light,  2  tablespoons  sugar 
added  to  eggs.  Add  XA  cup  cream  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly,  until  thick  and 
smooth.  Cool,  and  add  1  cup  cream,  whipped.  Pour  dressing  over 
fruit  mixture  and  mix  lightly.  Let  stand  in  refrigerator  (not  in  freez- 
ing tray)  24  hours.  Serve  on  lettuce,  garnish  with  whipped  cream. 
Serves  10  or  12. 

Mrs.  Eugene  Andrews. 


50 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


ORANGE  ICE-BOX  PUDDING 

2  cups  water  2  tablespoons  gelatin, 
1  cup  sugar  dissolved  in  1/3 

1  cup  orange  juice  cup  water 

1  cup  orange  pulp  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

shredded  %  lb.  marshmallows, 

2  cups  cream  chopped 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  24  ladyfingers 

Boil  sugar  and  water  to  syrup  (10-15  minutes).  Soak  gelatin  in 
cold  water  5  minutes  and  add  to  syrup.  Add  lemon  juice,  strain.  Add 
orange  juice  and  pulp.  Chill.  After  it  is  cold,  set  in  pan  of  ice  and  beat 
until  fluffy.  Whip  cream  and  add  marshmallow;  then  fold  into  gelatin 
mixture. 

Line  cake  pan  with  oil  paper  and  with  ladyfingers.  Crumble  re- 
maining ladyfingers  into  mixture.  Put  in  a  layer  of  mixture,  then  a 
layer  of  nuts. 

Mrs.  H.  M.  Wagstaff. 

ORIENTAL  PUDDING 

2  eggs  2/3  cup  chopped  dates 
%  cup  sugar  5  tablespoons  flour 

%  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  pecan  halves  Whipped  cream 

1/3  cup  dry  cocoanut 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  until  light  and  add  milk,  dates,  nuts,  and 
cocoanut,  then  sifted  flour  and  baking  powder.  Blend  thoroughly,  turn 
into  shallow  greased  baking  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  40  min- 
utes. When  cool,  cut  into  squares  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 
Serves  8. 

Mrs.  A.  D.  Perkins. 

PERSIMMON  PUDDING 

1  qt.  persimmons  V2  cup  meal 

1  pt.  sweet  milk  1  level  teaspoon  baking 
4  eggs  powder 

2  cups  sugar  XA  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  flour  Butter  size  of  large  egg 

Mash  persimmons  through  colander,  adding  milk  a  little  at  a  time 
(heating  the  milk  facilitates  straining).  Add  sugar,  eggs,  meal,  and 
flour  sifted  with  salt  and  baking  powder,  then  melted  butter.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  George  Howard. 

PINEAPPLE  DELIGHT 

23  marshmallows  1  small  can  crushed  pine- 
Y2  cup  boiling  water  apple  including  juice 

Juice  of  1  lemon  Whites  of  2  eggs 

3  tablespoons  sugar  Vz  pt.  cream  whipped 

Chop  marshmallows  and  add  Y2  cup  boiling  water.  Add  sugar, 
lemon  juice,  and  pineapple.  Beat  eggs  and  mix  above.  Add  cream  last 
and  place  in  ice  tray  for  four  hours. 

Mrs.  Edward  J.  Snow. 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


51 


PLUM  PUDDING 

Put  into  a  bowl  the  following: 

1  cup  chopped  suet  1  cup  shredded  citron  and 
1  cup  seeded  raisins  orange  peel 

1  cup  cleaned  currants  3  cups  grated  soft 
1  cup  granulated  sugar  bread  crumbs 

Add  4  eggs,  mixing  in  one  at  a  time  thoroughly.    Then  add — 

Vz  cup  milk  The  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

%  cup  brandy  or  whiskey  A  little  grated  orange  rind 

1  teaspoon  ground  and  a  little  orange 

cinnamon  juice 
1  teaspoon  ground  nutmeg 

Mix  thoroughly  with  the  hands  and  pack  in  buttered  mold.  Put 
oiled  paper  over  top  and  fit  cover  on  tight  and  steam  for  seven  hours 
keeping  water  boiling.  Can  be  made  early  and  heated  in  same  mold. 
When  used,  put  a  piece  of  holly  on  top.  Pour  over  the  pudding  a  quar- 
ter cup  of  rum  and  set  on  fire  as  it  is  brought  to  the  table. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Lay. 

PRUNE  PUDDING 

1  cup  cooled  prunes,  un-  1  tablespoon  butter 

sweetened  and  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

chopped  fine  3  crackers  rolled  fine 

1  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  chopped  nuts  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Vz  cup  milk 

Bake  in  buttered  pan  for  about  20  minutes.  Have  oven  at  a  moder- 
ate heat.    Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Wm.  M.  Dey. 

PRUNE  WHIP 

2/3  cup  stewed  prunes,  %  cup  sugar 

pitted  Vz  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

5  egg  whites  V&  teaspoon  salt 

Grind  stewed  prunes  in  meat  grinder.  Add  sugar.  Beat  egg  whites 
until  stiff,  to  which  you  have  added  salt.  After  mixture  is  cold  fold 
in  beaten  whites,  then  add  lemon  juice.  Pile  lightly  in  baking  dish. 
Put  baking  dish  in  pan  of  simmering  water  on  stove.  Simmer  for  Vz  an 
hour.    Put  in  slow  oven  and  complete  baking. 

Mary  Henderson. 

STEAMED  PUDDING 

3  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  each,  salt, 

Vz  cup  molasses  cloves,  allspice, 

Vz  cup  milk  nutmeg 
1  2/3  cup  flour  Vz  teaspoon  soda 

Vz  lb.  dates  cut  in  small 
pieces 

Melt  butter,  add  molasses,  milk,  and  dry  ingredients  mixed  and 
sifted.    Turn  into  buttered  mold  and  steam  2Y2  hours. 

Mrs.  George  Bason. 


52  The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 

2  cups  grated  raw  potatoes  xk  cup  melted  butter 

1  cup  sugar  3  eggs 

1 V2  cups  milk  Add  spices  to  taste 

Bake  slowly.    Serve  with  or  without  cream. 

Mrs.  Lily  H.  Brown. 


TIPSY  PUDDING 

5  eggs,  white  beaten  %  lb.  sugar 

separately  Y2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

XA  lb.  flour  Vanilla 
Vz  teaspoon  salt 

Dip  this  cake  in  aged  wine.    Make  a  custard  of  the  following: 
5  tablespoons  of  sugar  1    tablespoon  cornstarch 

2  eggs  Vanilla 
1  pt.  milk 

Stick  as  many  blanched  almonds  as  possible  in  cake  and  then  pour 
the  custard  over  it. 

Mrs.  Clyde  Dunn. 


Fresh  Fruit  and  Vegetables  at  All  Times 

See  Your  A  &  P  Store  at  Chapel  Hill 

Birds  Eye  Frosted  Foods 

The  A  &  P  Tea  Co. 


A  Receipt  for  Economy  .  . 

BRUCE'S 

5c  to  $1.00  Store 


Sauces  for  Puddings 


CARAMEL  SAUCE 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  2  tablespoons  cold  water 

4  tablespoons  caramel  1  cup  boiling  water 

syrup  1  teaspoon  butter 

Blend  cornstarch  and  cold  water.  Combine  the  syrup  and  boiling 
water  and  add  the  cornstarch  to  this  mixture.  Cook  25  minutes  in  a 
double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  thickened.  Add  butter  and  va- 
nilla.   Serves  6.    Serve  with  ice  cream,  baked  custard. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Carroll. 

HARD  SAUCE 

Cream  together —  2  tablespoons  cream 

4  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  %  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

Or  substitute  any  of  your  favorite  flavorings. 

Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 

HOT  CHOCOLATE  SAUCE 
Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  to  it  IV2  squares  of  chocolate.  Stir 
until  chocolate  is  dissolved,  then  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  1/3 
cup  boiling  water.    Boil  15  minutes.    Add  V2  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Mrs.  S.  G.  Sanders. 

LEMON  SAUCE  (GOOD  ON  SPONGE  CAKE) 

1  lemon  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  vinegar 

1  cup  sugar 

Put  sugar,  water,  vinegar  on  to  boil.  Beat  egg  thoroughly.  Pour 
syrup  into  egg  slowly.  Stir  well.  Cut  lemon  very  thin  and  put  in 
syrup.    Let  mixture  boil  2  minutes. 

Mrs.  S.  G.  Sanders. 

MOCK  WHIPPED  CREAM 

1  cup  sugar  1  large  apple,  grated 

White  of  1  egg  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  this  for  5  minutes  and  serve  on  plain  cake  or  puddings. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Preston. 


Dr.  Nathan,  Veterinarian 

Residence  Telephone  .  .  .  4831 
Hospital  Telephone   ....  4531 


Desserts — Frozen 


COFFEE  PECAN  ICE  CREAM 

V2  cup  sweetened  con-  %  pt.  whipped  cream 

densed  milk  1  egg  white 

Vz  cup  coffee  or  water 

Dilute  condensed  milk  with  coffee,  add  to  whipped  cream  and  add 
as  many  pecans  as  desired.  Place  in  freezing  unit  of  mechanical  re- 
frigerator. Mrs.  Dudley  Cowden. 

ICE  CREAM 

3  egg  yolks  3  egg  whites 

1  cup  milk  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

1  cup  whipping  cream 

Make  custard  of  egg  yolks,  milk,  and  sugar.  Cool.  Fold  in  whipped 
cream  and  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  to  which  salt  has  been  added.  Add 
vanilla  and  freeze  as  fast  as  possible.  One  cup  of  macaroon  crumbs  or 
one  cup  of  any  fruit  may  be  added.  Sherry  wine  flavoring  may  also  be 
used.  Mrs.  R.  W.  Bost. 

FOUNDATION  RECIPE  FOR  REFRIGERATOR  ICE  CREAM 

1  tall  can  evaporated  milk  1  cup  sugar 

1    pt.  cream  Flavoring 
1  or  2  egg  whites 

Beat  egg  whites  stiff.  Add  2  tablespoons  sugar.  Whip  milk,  which 
has  previously  been  heated  to  boiling,  then  chilled  thoroughly,  and  cream. 
Add  remaining  sugar.  Flavor  as  desired  and  fold  in  egg  whites.  Pour 
into  trays  and  freeze,  stirring  once  after  about  30  or  40  minutes. 

Mrs.  H.  F.  Munch. 

ICE  CREAM 

15  marshmallows  1  pt.  cream  (coffee  cream 

1  cup  milk  may  be  used) 

Dissolve  marshmallows  in  milk  by  heating  slightly.  When  cool, 
add  cream  beaten,  season,  and  place  in  refrigerator  to  freeze.  Stir  once 
with  wooden  spoon,  when  cream  is  partially  frozen.  This  makes  an 
excellent  base  for  any  flavor  desired. 

Mrs.  Donald  H.  Stewart. 


ANDREWS  FUNERAL  HOME 

Corner  Franklin  and  Mallette  Sts. 
CHAPEL  HILL,  N.  C. 

— [  Phone  6311  ]— 

FUNERAL  DIRECTORS  and  EMBALMERS 

Ambulance  Service — Anywhere,  Anytime 

WOMAN  EMBALMER 

Let  Us  Explain  Our  Burial  Association  Plan 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


55 


MOUSSE 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  scant  cup  sugar 

Mix  this  thoroughly.  Pour  into  tray  and  let  get  real  cold  (about 
20  minutes).  Whip  %  pint  cream.  Add  1  small  can  pineapple,  apricots, 
or  any  fruit.  Add  this  to  the  contents  of  the  tray.  Beat  well.  Pour 
back  in  tray;  after  1  hour,  stir  in  tray  and  replace  to  freeze. 

Mrs.  I.  C.  Griffin. 


STRAWBERRY  BAVARIAN  CREAM 

1  pt.  whipping  cream  1  cup  sugar 

Vst  package  Knox  gelatin  1  qt.  crushed  strawberries 

1  pt.  sweet  milk  18  lady  fingers 

Soak  gelatin  in  1/3  pint  milk.  Scald  remainder  of  milk.  Pour 
over  gelatin  and  strain.  Put  aside  to  cool.  Crush  strawberries  with 
cup  of  sugar.  Whip  cream  stiffly,  and  add  remainder  of  sugar.  Mix 
with  strawberries.  When  gelatin  is  thoroughly  chilled,  drop  slowly 
into  mixture,  beating  constantly.  Line  deep  pan  or  mold  with  lady 
fingers,  and  pour  mixture  over  same.  When  congealed  cut  in  squares, 
top  with  whipped  cream,  placing  one  large  strawberry  in  center  of 
cream. 

Mrs.  Susan  C.  Southerland. 

MRS.  EWART'S  LEMON  MILK  SHERBET 

1  qt.  sweet  milk  %  cup  lemon  juice 

2  cups  sugar  V2  pt.  heavy  whipping 
Grated  rind  1  lemon  cream 

Scald  milk,  sugar  and  lemon  rind.  Cool.  Freeze  almost  solid,  then 
add  whipped  cream.  Freeze  again,  then  stir  in  lemon  juice,  freezing  to 
desired  consistency. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Linker. 


ORANGE  ICE 

1  teaspoon  gelatin  or  2  cups  sugar 

1  tablespoon  jello  2  cups  orange  juice 

xk  cup  cold  water  rA  cup  lemon  juice 

4  cups  hot  water  Grated  rind  of  2  oranges 

Soak  gelatin  in  cold  water  while  you  make  syrup  of  sugar,  water, 
and  grated  rind.  Add  gelatin  to  hot  syrup,  cool;  add  fruit  juices,  strain, 
and  freeze  as  rapidly  as  possible. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Carroll. 


ICE— STRAWBERRY 

1  qt.  strawberries  1  cup  orange  juice 

%  cup  sugar 

Boil  berries  and  sugar  for  ten  minutes.  Strain,  cool  and  add  or- 
ange juice.    Place  in  refrigerator  tray.    Serves  6. 


Note:  Either  of  these  last  two  recipes  may  be  used  as  a  base  for 
cranberry,  pineapple,  grapejuice,  raspberry,  loganberry,  or  lime  sherbet. 


We  Offer  Free  of 
Charge 

Advice  on  French,  Austrian  and  Italian 
Cooking  from  the  Experience  of 
two  generations. 


iiiiiiiifi 


DAHZICER 


If  you  are  giving  a  party  and  are  too 
tired  to  bake  your  cakes  and  cookies 
yourself  .  .  . 

Let  Us  Do  It  For  You 


Viennese  Candies,  Almond  Paste  (Marzipan)  and 
Candied  Fruit  Freshly  Made  Every  Day 


DANZIGER'S  RECIPES 


BEEF  GOULASH 

3  lbs.  beef — any  good  cut  or  2  or  3  teaspoons  of  paprika 

chuck  Salt  to  taste 

2  lbs.  onions  Soup  or  water 

Cut  onions  in  rings  and  saute  to  a  light  yellow  in  shortening.  Cut 
meat  in  large  squares  and  add  to  onions,  salt  and  paprika  and  roast  until 
the  juices  are  cooked  nearly  dry.  Then  pour  in  the  soup  or  hot  water  until 
meat  is  covered,  cover  with  a  lid  and  let  simmer  until  meat  is  done.  Mix 
one  tablespoon  of  flour  with  enough  water  to  make  a  smooth  thin  paste 
and  thicken  the  juices.  Cook  a  few  minutes  longer  until  flour  is  done, 
pour  gravy  over  meat  and  serve  with  potatoes. 


APPLE  STRUDEL 

Pastry  Filling 

xk  lb.  of  flour  4  lbs.  of  apples,  sliced 

1  egg  x/4  lb.  of  raisins 

Salt  to  taste  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

Dash  of  vinegar  xk  lb.  of  sugar 

Vs  lb.  of  almonds,  sliced 

%  lb.  of  soft  butter — %  lb.  of  stale  white  bread  crumbs. 

Pile  flour  on  the  bread-board,  making  a  hole  in  the  center.  Mix  well 
the  egg,  water,  salt  and  vinegar  and  pour  in  the  hole  in  the  flour,  working 
it  first  with  a  knife,  then  with  the  hands  until  the  flour  is  used  up.  Then 
throw  the  dough  on  the  board  until  bubbles  appear.  Form  it  in  a  ball  and 
cover  with  a  warm  pot,  letting  it  stand  a  half -hour,  or  longer.  In  the 
meantime  prepare  the  filling. 

Spread  a  large  cloth  over  bread-board  and  sift  flour  over  it.  Put 
dough  on  cloth  and  roll  from  the  center  on  all  sides.  Flour  the  hands  and 
stretch  dough  quickly  and  carefully  until  it  becomes  transparent.  Trim 
away  the  thick  edge  with  a  knife,  then  spread  softened  butter  over  the 
dough,  and  over  that  the  bread  crumbs,  covering  one-fifth  of  the  sheet. 
Then  spread  the  filling  on  three-fourths  of  the  sheet,  lift  the  lower  edge 
and  start  the  roll,  using  the  cloth  in  rolling  as  in  making  a  jelly-roll. 
Lay  in  buttered  baking  pan  in  shape  of  a  horse-shoe  and  bake  about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  until  crisp. 


Pastry  and  Pies 


HOT  WATER  PASTRY 

1  cup  shortening  1  teaspoon  salt 

2/3  cup  boiling  water  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

3  cups  pastry  flour 

(measured  after 

sifting) 

Put  the  shortening  into  a  bowl  and  add  the  boiling  water.  Let 
stand  until  the  shortening  melts  or  is  very  soft.  Then  sift  into  this 
mixture  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Put  in 
covered  container  and  place  in  refrigerator  over  night.  This  makes  six 
pastry  shells  or  three  pies  with  top  crusts.  A  few  days  keeping  in  re- 
frigerator improves  it.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Henninger. 

PASTRY— PLAIN 

1  cup  flour  Ice  water  to  make  stiff 

1/3  cup  Crisco  or  fat  dough 

V±  teaspoon  salt 

Have  all  ingredients  as  cold  as  possible  and  handle  as  little  as 
possible.    This  makes  one  shell.    Bake  at  450  degrees. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  Carroll. 

WASHINGTON  APPLE  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  cornstarch 

1  cup  unsweetened  %  teaspoon  salt 

pineapple  juice  V2  teaspoon  vanilla 

6  medium-sized  tart  apples  1  tablespoon  butter 

Boil  sugar  and  pineapple  juice,  add  apples  which  have  been  pared, 
cored,  and  cut  in  fourths.  Keep  fruit  whole  by  cooking  slowly  un- 
covered, until  tender.  Lift  the  apples  out  carefully  and  lay  them  in  a 
pie  pan  lined  with  unbaked  pastry.  Dissolve  the  cornstarch  in  2  tea- 
spoons cold  water  and  add  to  the  syrup.  Cook  until  it  thickens.  Add 
vanilla  and  butter  and  pour  over  the  apples  in  the  pastry-lined  pan. 
Cut  strips  of  pastry  %  inch  wide,  brush  lightly  with  cream.  Place 
criss-cross  over  the  pie.  Bake  at  450  degrees  for  ten  minutes,  then 
reduce  the  heat  and  finish  baking  at  350  degrees. 

Mrs.  H.  F.  Munch. 

BROWN  SUGAR  PIE 

3  cups  brown  sugar  V2  cup  melted  butter 

V2  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  eggs 

Pour  milk  over  sugar.  Add  beaten  eggs  and  melted  butter  and 
vanilla.  Put  mixture  into  uncooked  pastry  shell.  Cook  about  20  min- 
utes or  until  filling  becomes  firm.  Mrs.  Hugh  Lefler. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE 

IV2  cups  brown  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

IV2  cups  water  3  egg  yolks 

4  tablespoons  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 
4  tablespoons  cornstarch  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Heat  brown  sugar  and  1%  cups  water  to  the  boiling  point.  Mix 
together  flour,  cornstarch  and  salt  with  XA  cup  water  and  pour  the  syrup 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


59 


over  this,  slowly  stirring  constantly.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick. 
Add  the  beaten  egg  yolks,  butter,  and  vanilla  and  cook  2  minutes  longer. 
€ool  and  pour  into  a  baked  shell.  Mrs.  J.  P.  Harland. 

CARAMEL  PECAN  PIES 

Cream  1%  cups  brown  sugar  with  Mi  stick  butter.  Stir  in  2  eggs, 
#dd  vanilla.  Sprinkle  pecans  on  top.  Bake  in  muffin  tins  in  a  medium 
oven  in  unbaked  shells.    Makes  6  or  8  pies.  Mrs.  Eason. 

KARO  PIE 

1  cup  white  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  Blue  Label  Karo  4  eggs 

Syrup  XA  cup  nut  meats  (pecans 
1  tablespoon  flour  preferred) 
4  tablespoons  melted  butter 

Beat  eggs  thoroughly  and  add  other  ingredients.  Pour  into  un- 
cooked pastry  shell  and  bake  slowly.         Laura  Fuller  Bryant. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  IV2  squares  chocolate  and 

2  heaping  tablespoons  enough  water  or  milk 

flour  to  make  enough 

2  eggs  filling  for  a  pie 

Boil  until  thick.  Add  butter  after  taking  from  stove,  and  beat. 
Put  in  baked  pie  crust  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Kenfield. 

GRAHAM  CRACKER  LEMON  PIE 

18  Graham  crackers  V2  cup  soft  butter 

Mix  and  press  into  pie  pan  with  fingers 

1  cup  milk  Juice  of  1  orange 

1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  butter 

2  egg  yolks  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
V2  cup  flour 

Cook  until  thick.  Cool  slightly,  and  put  in  pie  shell  formed  of 
Graham  crackers.    Top  with  meringue  and  brown. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Buchanan. 

JEFF  DAVIS  PIE 

IV2  cups  sugar  3  eggs  beaten  separately, 
V2  cup  butter  with  whites  folded 

V2  cup  milk  in  last 

2  tablespoons  flour — 

mixed  in  sugar 

This  will  make  filling  for  one  large  pie. 

Mrs.  John  Umstead,  Jr. 

LEMON  CHIFFON  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  4  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

3  eggs  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 
Beat  yolks  till  lemon  color.    Add  V2  cup  sugar  and  beat  till  every 

grain  of  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind.  Cook 
over  hot  water  till  stiff.  Beat  whites  till  stiff,  add  V2  cup  sugar  and 
beat  5  minutes  or  till  all  sugar  is  dissolved.  Fold  in  cooked  mixture. 
Put  in  baked  crust  and  brown  in  oven.    Very  good  if  well  beaten. 

Mrs.  Fred  Patterson. 


The  Hill  Bakery 

Special  Orders 

for  small  rolls  and  biscuits — also 
for  small  cup  cakes  and  sheet  cake 
for  teas  and  dinners.  Iced  or  ready 
for  your  own  icing. 


THE  TRUE  SUCCESS  OF  A  RECIPE 

depends  on  selecting*  quality  foods.  More  than 
three  quarters  of  a  million  women  each  week 
buy  from  Penders,  secure  in  the  knowledge  that 
they  are  getting  the  full  value  for  every  dollar. 

Pender  Food  Stores 


V — -6 

'     FOR  BEST  RESULTS  ... 

Use 

\          Red  Band  Flour 

M  ■  RED  BAND 

1  PLAIN  FLOUR 

The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


61 


OLD-FASHIONED  LEMON  PIE 

1  cup  sugar    Lrpamwj  2  lemons,  rind  and  juice 

%  cup  butter  [creamed  i  pinch  salt 

3  yolks  well  beaten  3  whites  well  beaten 

Bake  at  350  degrees,  40  minutes. 


Mrs.  J.  M.  Booker. 


MOLASSES  PIE 


1  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  sweet  milk 

1  cup  New  Orleans  Nutmeg  to  taste 

molasses  Vz  cup  black  walnuts  or 

2  eggs  any  nuts  you  like 
Butter  size  of  a  walnut 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  well.  Add  molasses,  butter,  milk,  and  nut- 
meg. Put  in  uncooked  crust  and  bake.  Sprinkle  nuts  on  top  before 
putting  in  stove. 

Mrs.  Fred  Patterson. 


PEACH-RAISIN  PIE 

(For  two  pies) 

%  can  soft  peaches 
2  cups  sugar  %  lb.  raisins 

6  eggs  Nutmeg 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately.  Drain  peaches  and  chop 
fine.  Add  sugar  and  raisins.  Stir  fruit  and  sugar  with  well  beaten 
yolks.  Add  nutmeg  and  lastly  butter  melted.  Pour  this  mixture  into 
rather  thick  crust  and  bake  to  a  rich  brown. 

Flavor  meringue  with  lemon.  Spread  on  thick,  and  heat  through 
in  hot  oven.    Makes  two  pies. 

Mrs.  David  Sessoms. 


PUMPKIN  PIE 

Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  1  cup  of  white  sugar  to  2  cups 
of  pumpkin  which  has  been  stewed  and  put  through  a  colander.  With 
this  mix  1  quart  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  mace,  and  nutmeg  mixed 
with  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Line  a  very  deep  pie  dish  with  a 
good  paste.  Cut  slashes  in  it  here  and  there.  Stir  the  pumpkin  custard 
well  from  the  bottom  and  put  in  into  the  pastry.    Bake  in  a  steady  oven. 

Miss  Alice  Noble. 

SWEET  POTATO  CUSTARD  PIE 

2  cups  mashed  sweet  1  rounding  teaspoon  spice 

potatoes  1  rounding  teaspoon 

3  eggs,  well  beaten  cinnamon 
V2  cup  melted  butter  Milk 

IV2  cups  sugar 

Mix  ingredients  together,  adding  enough  milk  to  make  a  thin  cus- 
tard. Bake  in  an  uncooked  crust  about  30  minutes  at  400  degrees. 
(Makes  two  pies). 

Mrs.  Leonard  E.  Fields. 


Cakes 


ALL-PURPOSE  CAKE 

2Vz  cups  flour  4  eggs 

2%  teaspoons  baking  %  cup  butter 

powder  2  cups  sugar 

Pinch  of  salt  1  cup  milk 

Sift  together  dry  ingredients.  Separate  eggs,  and  beat.  Do  not 
beat  whites  too  dry.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg  yolk,  and  then 
the  flour  and  milk  alternately.  Flavor  and  add  egg  whites  last.  Pour 
in  greased  and  floured  cake  pans.  Bake  25  minutes  at  375  degrees. 
(Sheet  or  layer  cake). 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Dashiell. 

ANGEL  CUP  CAKES 

%  cup  sugar  Vs  teaspoon  salt 

V2  cup  flour  V2  teaspoon  vanilla 

%  cup  egg  whites  1  teaspoon  almond  extract 

Vz  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar 

Sift  sugar  and  flour  4  times  each.  Beat  eggs.  Add  cream  of  tartar. 
Fold  in  sugar  gradually;  then  add  flour  and  salt,  and  flavoring.  Put 
into  ungreased  muffin  pans,  or  paper  cups.  Bake  slowly  about  25  min- 
utes. 

Mrs.  Lily  H.  Brown. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

1%  cups  sifted  cake  flour  1  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  1  egg  well  beaten 

V2  teaspoon  soda  1  cup  raisins  finely  cut 

x/4  teaspoon  salt  and  floured 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  cup  nuts,'  chopped 

V2  teaspoon  cloves  %  cup  hot,  thick  apple 

V2  cup  shortening  sauce,  strained 

Sift  flour  once,  measure,  add  baking  powder,  soda,  salt  and  spices, 
and  sift  together  three  times.  Cream  butter  thoroughly,  add  sugar 
gradually,  and  cream  together  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  egg,  raisins, 
and  nuts.  Add  flour  mixture,  alternately  with  apple  sauce,  a  small 
amount  at  a  time.  Beat  after  each  addition  until  smooth.  Bake  in 
greased  loaf  pan  7x5x3  inches,  in  moderate  oven  (350  degrees  F.)  about 
1  hour. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Winsor. 

CHINESE  CAKE 

1  cup  dates  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  nuts  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  2  well  beaten  eggs 

%  cup  flour 

Mix  all  ingredients  together;  add  dates,  walnuts  or  any  kind  of 
nuts,  also  the  well  beaten  eggs.  Grease  pan  and  spread  very  thinly  and 
bake.  Cut  in  blocks  while  hot  and  when  done  roll  in  balls,  then  in 
powdered  sugar.  Can  be  rolled  up  and  cut  to  represent  a  stump  and 
use  hatchet  and  flag  for  favors. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Hodges. 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book  63 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

%  lb.  butter  1  cup  milk 

2  cups  sugar  3  level  teaspoon  baking 
%  cake  chocolate  powder 

4  eggs  A/4  teaspoon  soda 

%  teaspoon  salt  Vanilla 

3  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Alternate  flour  and  milk.  Add  baking 
powder,  then  melted  chocolate.  Add  soda  dissolved  in  Y2  teaspoon  of 
hot  water.  Add  eggs  which  have  been  well  beaten.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla. Bake  fairly  quickly  in  layers.  Put  together  with  white  icing  or 
chocolate  filling.  Willie  Ames. 

COFFEE  CAKE 

2  tablespoons  butter  Pinch  salt 

1  egg  1  cup  milk 

V2  cup  raisins  or  citron  4  teaspoons  baking 

2  cups  flour  powder 

3  tablespoons  sugar 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg  and  milk  then  fruit.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  30  minutes.  Frost. 

Frosting 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  (heaping) 

%  cup  nuts  flour 
1  heaping  tablespoon 
butter 

If  desired  instead  of  raisins,  peel  an  apple  and  cut  in  small  pieces 
and  stick  into  the  dough  before  frosting. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Borgman. 

QUICK  DATE  CAKE 

3  tablespoons  soft  butter  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

or  nucoa  xk  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2/3  cup  brown  sugar  Few  grains  nutmeg 

1  egg  V2  cup  dates  cut  in  small 

%  cup  milk  pieces 
%  cup  flour  or  14 
tablespoons 

Put  ingredients  in  bowl  and  beat  together  about  three  minutes.  Put 

in  small  greased  and  floured  muffin  tins  and  bake  about  20  minutes  at 

350  degrees.  Mrs.  P.  E.  Davenport. 

FILLED  COFFEE  CAKE 

1  cup  sugar  3  cups  flour  (approxi- 

1  tablespoon  butter  mately) 

(rounded)  3  teaspoons  baking 

2  eggs — beaten  powder 
1  cup  sweet  milk  1  pinch  salt 

Filling 

IV2  cups  light  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  large  tablespoon  %  cup  nuts 

cinnamon 


Dot  with  lots  of  butter  on  each  layer. 


Mrs.  J.  F.  Kenfield. 


64 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


CRAZY  CAKE 

Mix  ingredients  as  listed.  Do  not  beat  until  all  materials  are  in 
the  mixing  bowl. 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  egg  (break  and  drop  in)  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  sour  milk  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

V2  cup  cocoa  IV2  cups  flour 

V2  cup  butter  V2  cup  water 

1  teaspoon  soda 


Beat  until  fine  texture, 
grees. 


Bake  in  2  pans — 30  minutes  at  350  de- 
Mrs.  P.  H.  Quinlan. 


PRIZE  DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 


2  cups  cake  flour 
2%  teaspoons  baking 

powder 
%  teaspoon  salt 
2/3  cup  butter  or  other 

shortening 


IV2  cups  sugar 
3  eggs,  well  beaten 
3  squares  unsweetened 
chocolate  melted 
%  cup  milk 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Sift  flour  once,  measure,  add  baking  powder  and  salt,  and  sift  to- 
gether three  times.  Cream  butter  thoroughly,  add  sugar  gradually,  and 
cream  together  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  eggs  and  beat  well;  then 
chocolate  and  blend.  Add  flour  alternately  with  milk,  small  amount  at  a 
time.  Beat  after  each  addition  until  smooth.  Add  vanilla.  Bake  in 
two  9-inch  pans  in  moderate  oven  (350  degrees)  35  minutes  or  until 
done.  Mrs.  W.  E.  Thompson. 


DARK  FRUIT  CAKE  (16  LB.) 


3  lbs. 


Juice  two  lemons,  grated 

rind  of  one 
%  lb.  almonds 
IV2  lbs.  flour 

1  lb.  butter 

2  lbs.  sugar 
IV2  doz.  eggs 
1  glass  brandy 
1  nutmeg 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon 
Soak  fruit  over  night.    Cream  butter  and  flour  together,  beat  yolks 
of  eggs  and  sugar  and  add  to  batter.    Dredge  fruit  with  flour  (part 
of  amount  above).    Mix  slowly  and  add  to  batter.    Fold  in  well  beaten 
egg  whites.    Add  brandy  last.    Bake  slowly  6  hours. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Lefler. 


raisins — one 
seedless,  2  seeded 
1  lb.  currants 
l1/*  lbs.  citron 
1  lb.  crystallized  cherries 
%  lb.  figs 

V±  lb.  candied  lemon  peel 
XA  lb.  orange  peel 
V2  lb.  pecans 


DARK  FRUIT  CAKE 


XA  lb.  crystallized 

cherries 
V2  lb.  dried  figs 
3  V2  cups  cake  flour 
V2  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  teaspoons  soda 
2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  cloves 

2  teaspoons  nutmeg 
2  cups  hot  apple  sauce 

Cream  the  shortening,  beat  in  the  sugar  gradually,  then  add  the 


%  lb.  butter 

2  cups  sugar 

3  eggs 

1  package  raisins 
1  package  currants 
1  cup  black  walnuts 
1  cup  pecans 
V2  lb.  citron 
V2  lb.  crystallized 
pineapple 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


65 


well  beaten  eggs,  and  the  fruit,  chopped  and  floured.  Add  the  flour, 
sifted  with  the  soda,  baking  powder,  salt  and  spices;  next  the  apple 
sauce,  which  should  be  strained  and  in  the  form  of  a  thick  puree.  Bake 
in  two  loaf  pans  or  two  tube  pans  lined  with  greased  paper  in  a  slow 
oven  (300)  about  three  hours.    Makes  eight  pounds. 

Mrs.  Guy  B.  Johnson. 

GINGERBREAD 

1  cup  sour  milk  2  teaspoons  ginger 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  salt 

2%  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1%  teaspoons  soda 

Mix  soda  with  sour  milk  and  add  to  molasses.  Sift  together  flour, 
salt  and  ginger.  Combine  two  mixtures,  and  add  butter.  Bake  in 
greased  pans  in  moderate  oven  (350  degrees  F.)  about  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Markham. 

MARTHA  WASHINGTON'S  GINGERBREAD 

(Made  for  La  Fayette  in  1824  in  Fredericksburg,  Va.) 

xk  lb.  butter  %  tablespoon  cinnamon 

xk  lb.  sugar  %  teaspoon  soda  in  little 

Vz  pt.  molasses  water 

%  pt.  milk  Grated  rind  of  one  lemon 

3  eggs,  beaten  separately  Add  soda  last 

3  cups  flour  (Red  Band)  V2  lb.  raisins  may  be  added 

2  tablespoons  ginger 

Lily  H.  Brown. 

HOT  MILK  CAKE 

4  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking 
2  cups  granulated  sugar  powder 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  V2  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  flour  (measure  1  cup  milk 

after  sifted)  2  rounded  tablespoons 

butter 

Beat  eggs  well,  yolks  and  whites  together;  then  add  gradually  the 
sugar  and  vanilla.  Add  2  cups  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  which  have 
been  sifted  together  twice.  Sift  flour  into  mixture  instead  of  pouring  it. 
Last  of  all  add  milk  which  has  been  heated  and  in  which  the  butter  has 
been  melted.  Have  milk  lukewarm.  Bake  in  moderately  hot  oven.  Do 
not  let  batter  set  after  putting  in  pans.    Bake  at  once. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Hodges. 


DURHAM  ROAD  DAIRY 

T.  R.  Harward,  Proprietor 
CHAPEL  HILL,  N.  C. 

Pasteurized  Dairy  Products 

Phone  3722 


CALL  3791 

LLOYD-RAY  CO. 

Carrboro 

Furniture  and 
Hardware 

We  specialize  in  installing 
Inlaid  Linoleum  and 
Sanding  Floors 

Philco  Radios 

Sherwin-Williams  Paint 


PHONE  5841 

Community 
Cleaners 

Quality  Cleaning — 
Quickly 

• 

— We  Deliver — 


Fitch  Lumber  Co. 
Hi  Heat  COAL   Hi  Heat 

PHONE  7291  PHONE  7291 


WALKER'S  SERVICE 

120  W.  Franklin  St. 

Efficient  Day  and  Night  Service 
Packard  Ambulance 

Funerals  Conducted  by  Experienced  Men 
PHONE  8731  PHONE  8731 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


67 


MOLASSES  CAKE 

1/3  cup  butter  XA  teaspoon  ginger 

1  cup  sugar  hi  teaspoon  cloves 

1  cup  molasses  teaspoon  allspice 

2  cups  flour  (heaping)  1  egg 

1  cup  boiling  water  Pinch  of  salt 

1  level  teaspoon  baking 
soda 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  molasses.  Dissolve  soda  in  hot 
water  and  add  flour  and  water  alternately.  Last  add  egg  well  beaten. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  C.  W.  Bain. 

1-2-3-4  CAKE  WITH  LEMON  FILLING 

1  cup  butter  3  teaspoons  baking 

2  cups  sugar  powder 

3  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

4  eggs  1  cup  sweet  milk 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  and  add  1  egg  at  time  unbeaten.  After 
sifting  flour  once,  add  baking  powder  and  sift  twice.  Add  a  little  flour 
and  a  little  milk  at  a  time  and  mix  thoroughly,  and  then  the  vanilla. 
This  makes  two  thick  layers  or  three  thin  ones. 

Use  lemon  filling.  Mrs.  J.  L.  Bennett. 

ORANGE  DUMPLINGS 
Sauce 

4  oranges  1  tablespoon  butter 

IY2  cups  sugar  2  cups  boiling  water 

Make  into  syrup  in  deep  frying  pan,  free  from  grease. 

Dumplings 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  teaspoons  baking 

Vz  cup  sugar  powder 
IV2  cups  flour  V2  cup  milk 

V2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together 
and  add  alternately  with  the  milk.  Add  vanilla.  The  batter  should  be 
very  stiff.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  orange  sauce.  Place  in  moderate 
oven   (400  degrees)   and  bake  10  minutes. 

Put  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  top. 

Mrs.  Harry  McMullan. 

POUND  CAKE 

1  doz.  eggs  1  lb.  sugar 

1  lb.  butter  2  cups  flour 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  and  cream  till  light.  Add  beaten  egg 
yolks  and  flour.    Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  M.  B.  Utley. 

PRUNE  CAKE 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  cooked  prunes 

1  egg  %  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  large  tablespoon  butter  *4  teaspoon  cloves 

%  cup  sour  milk  IV2  teaspoons  soda 
IV2  cups  sifted  flour 

Mix  in  usual  order,  butter,  sugar,  egg,  milk,  prunes,  spices,  soda. 


68 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 
Filling 


V2  cup  sugar 

1/3  cup  sour  cream 

1  teaspoon  flour 

Cook  for  a  few  minutes. 


%  cup  chopped  raisins 
Butter,  size  of  an  egg 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Kenfield. 


RUM  CAKE 


1  cup  butter 

%  cup  buttermilk 

1  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
1  teaspoon  soda 


2  eggs 

2  cups  cake  flour 

1  cup  seedless  raisins 

Rind  of  1  orange 


Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  well  beaten  eggs  and  mixed  dry  in- 
gredients. Put  raisins  and  orange  rind  through  a  fine  grinder,  then 
mix  with  little  flour  and  add.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Rum  Sauce 

Boil  1  cup  sugar  and  V2  cup  water  15  minutes.  Let  cool  and  add  % 
cup  rum,  pinch  salt.  Pour  over  cake  while  cake  is  still  warm.  Then 
ice  cake  with  any  good  icing.  Mrs.  J.  C.  Lyons. 


SPICE  CAKE 

1/3  cup  butter  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sour  milk  Vs  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon  2  cups  flour 

V2  teaspoon  cloves  1  teaspoon  soda 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  rest  of  ingredients  and  beat  two 
minutes.  Bake  in  shallow  pan  for  30  minutes  in  slow  oven.  Ice  with 
creamy  frosting.  Mrs.  J.  S.  Henninger. 


TUTTI  FRUTTI  CAKE 
Cream  1  cup  each  of  sugar  and  butter;  add  cup  of  milk.    2V2  cups 
of  flour  and  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

1  lb.  raisins  1  lb.  English  walnuts 

1  lb.  figs  V±  lb.  citron 

1  lb.  dates  Whites  of  7  eggs 

Mix  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mix  and  bake  in  slow  oven.  Miss  Alice  Noble. 


WHITE  F 

1  lb.  butter 
1  lb.  sugar 
1  doz.  eggs  (beaten 
separately) 

1  lb.  flour 

2  lbs.  citron 

2  cocoanuts  (grated) 
1  lb.  blanched  almonds 

(chopped) 
1  box  Sultana  raisins 

Cream  butter  thoroughly,  add 


CAKE 

1  small  box  candied 

red  cherries 
1  lb.  candied  pineapple 
Y2  lb.  candied  orange  peel 
V2  lb.  lemon  peel 
*/i  lb.  candied  ginger 
1  small  nutmeg  (grated) 
1  teaspoon  mace  (ground) 
1  tumbler  brandy 
V2  tumbler  sherry  wine 

*  gradually,  and  add  egg  yolks 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


69 


well  beaten  to  this,  then  flour  gradually.    Add  the  liquids.    Lastly  add 
fruit  which  has  been  well  floured  and  mixed,  then  white  of  eggs,  which 
have  been  well  beaten.    Bake  in  slow  oven  for  at  least  four  hours. 
If  you  haven't  the  brandy  and  wine,  use  fruit  juices. 

Mrs.  Grady  Pritchard. 


Frostings  and  Fillings 


BANBURY  FILLING 
(For  8  Tarts) 

Vi  cup  chopped  raisins  3  tablespoons  orange  juice 

%  cup  chopped  dates  Y2  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  chopped  citron  1  tablespoon  butter 

V2  cup  sugar  1  egg  yolk 

Mix  fruits  and  sugar.  Add  fruit  juices  and  salt.  Cook  slowly, 
stirring  often  until  mixture  thickens.  Add  rest  of  ingredients  and  cook 
one  minute,  cool.  Spread  portions  on  4-inch  squares  of  unbaked  pastry. 
Fold  over  three-corner-wise  and  prick  with  fork.  Place  on  baking  sheet, 
and  bake  25  minutes  in  moderate  oven.    Makes  8  tarts. 

Mrs.  Fred  Patterson. 

BOILED  WHITE  ICING  (FOOL-PROOF) 

1  cup  sugar  V2  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  egg  whites  %  teaspoon  cream  of 

2  tablespoons  water  tartar 

Place  bottom  part  of  double  boiler  half  filled  with  water  on  surface 
unit  and  turn  switch  to  high.  When  water  begins  to  boil,  place  un- 
beaten egg  whites,  sugar,  cream  of  tartar  and  water  in  top  part  of 
double  boiler.  Beat  constantly  with  rotary  egg  beater  until  the  mixture 
gathers  inside  the  blades  on  beater  and  is  thick  and  creamy.  Remove 
from  range,  add  vanilla,  and  mix  thoroughly. 

Mrs.  J.  P.  Harland. 

CARAMEL  ICING 

2%  cups  sugar  and  1  cup  milk 

%  cup  sugar  1  piece  butter  size  of  egg 

1  egg  yolk 

Beat  yolk  of  egg,  add  to  milk,  then  add  2x/4  cups  sugar  and  butter. 
Place  in  boiler  and  let  cook  while  you  melt  %  cup  sugar  in  an  iron  or 
heavy  pan.  Be  sure  there  are  no  lumps.  When  entirely  melted,  pour 
into  boiling-milk  mixture.  Cook  to  temperature  232  degrees.  Let  cool 
and  beat  in  1  cup  broken  nut  meats. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Hodges. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING 
(For  a  Two-Layer  Cake) 

IV2  cup  of  sugar  %  cup  of  milk 

3  tablespoons  of  cocoa  1  teaspoon  (rounded)  of 
1  tablespoon  (rounded)  butter 

of  flour  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

Mix  sugar,  cocoa,  flour  and  milk.  Cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  a 
firm  ball  is  formed  by  dropping  a  little  in  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Remove 


70 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


from  stove,  add  butter  and  vanilla.  Cool.  Beat  until  thick  and  creamy. 
Spread  between  layers  of  cake  and  on  top  and  sides.  Makes  2-layer 
cake. 

Mrs.  G.  Wallace  Smith. 

CHOCOLATE  MINUTE  FUDGE  ICING 

Boil  for  one  minute — 

Vz  cup  cocoa  1  cup  sugar 

%  cup  butter  Pinch  of  salt 

x/4  cup  milk 

Beat  till  creamy. 

Lily  H.  Brown. 

CREAMY  FROSTING  (MOCHA) 

3  tablespoons  butter  Va  teaspoon  salt 

(melted)  1  cup  sifted  confectioner's 

2  tablespoons  hot  coffee  sugar 
%  teaspoon  vanilla 

To  1  cup  or  more  confectioner's  sugar  add  rest  of  ingredients.  Beat 
8  minutes.    Let  stand  5  minutes.    Beat  until  creamy  and  frost  cake. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Henninger. 

LEMON  FILLING 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  butter 

3  tablespoons  flour  xk  teaspoon  salt 
1  egg 

Grate  rind  of  one  lemon  and  juice  of  two  lemons.  Mix  ingredients 
in  order  given.  Cook,  stirring  constantly  until  boiling,  over  double 
boiler.    Cool,  beating  or  stirring  all  the  time. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Bennett. 

SEVEN  MINUTE  ICING 

1  egg  white  (unbeaten)  3  tablespoons  cold  water 

%  cup  sugar  12  marshmallows 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  egg  white,  sugar,  and  water  in  top  of  double  boiler  and  set 
over  rapidly  boiling  water.  Beat  constantly  with  Dover  egg  beater  for 
seven  minutes.  Remove  from  stove  and  add  marshmallows  and  vanilla. 
Beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread  without  running. 


Shop  at 

BERMAN'S  DEPARTMENT  STORE 

For  the  Entire  Family 

BERMAN'S  DEPARTMENT  STORE 

Phone  6921 


Cookies 


BROWN  SUGAR  ICE-BOX  COOKIES 

1  lb.  butter  4  cups  flour 

1  lb.  brown  sugar 
Cream  butter  and  sugar  well;  add  flour.    Form  in  two  long  rolls, 
chill  in  ice  box  thoroughly,  slice  very  thin  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
(250  to  300  degrees).     Sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar  and  put  in 
cookie  jar.  Mrs.  F.  O.  Bowman. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  PECAN  SQUARES 

%  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  baking  powdei 

1  cup  brown  sugar  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  %  cup  pecan  meats 

1  cup  flour 

Melt  the  butter  and  blend  with  the  sugar.  Add  egg  and  mix  thor- 
oughly. Add  dry  ingredients  which  have  been  sifted  together,  then 
stir  in  nutmeats.  Spread  in  a  greased  pan  (8x8  inches),  bake  30  min- 
utes in  moderate  oven  (350  degrees),  cut  into  squares  and  let  cool  in 
the  pan.  Mrs.  I.  W.  Rose. 

CHEESE  CRUMPETS 

3  oz.  cream  cheese  %  cup  sliced  ripe  olives 

1 V2  oz.  of  Roquefort  1  teaspoon  milk 

cheese  Pinch  of  salt 

%  cup  chopped  pecan 

meats 

Blend  all  together  and  spread  on  thin  slices  of  fresh  loaf  bread 
(six  inches  long  and  three  inches  wide).  Roll  up  like  jelly  roll.  Slip  a 
narrow  ring  of  green  pepper  over  each  roll  and  toast  under  broiler 
until  light  brown  on  all  sides.  Serve  while  hot.  Serve  with  tea  or 
salad.  Mrs.  F.  H.  Edmister. 

CHEESE  PIN  WHEELS 

V2  lb.  cheese  Dash  cayenne 

XA  lb.  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  flour 

Sift  dry  ingredients.  Run  cheese  through  meat  chopper.  Cut 
cheese  and  butter  into  flour.  Roll  in  thin  sheet.  Spread  with  apple 
jelly,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  %  cup  chopped  pecans. 
Roll  like  jelly  roll.    Slice  in  thin  slices.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  A.  P.  Hudson. 

CHEESE  WAFERS 

V2  lb.  cheese  (yellow)  A  little  red  pepper  and 

%  lb.  butter  salt  to  season 

2  cups  flour  (or  enough  to 
make  stiff  dough) 
Mix  together  and  put  in  ice  box  in  a  roll  that  can  be  sliced.  Chill, 
then  cut  in  thin  slices,  put  one  or  a  half  pecan  on  each  wafer  and  cook. 
When  done  sprinkle  with  sugar.    Good  with  salads. 

Mrs.  I.  W.  Rose. 

CHOCOLATE  BROWNIES 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  melted  butter 

2  eggs  unbeaten  1  cup  walnuts 

1  cup  flour  Vanilla 

2  squares  Baker's 

chocolate 

Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  30  minutes.    Cut  in  squares  like  fudge. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  Hogan. 


72 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


CHOCOLATE  NUT  DROP  COOKIES 

1  heaping  tablespoon  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

butter  (or  chicken  IV2  teaspoons  baking 
fat)  powder 
1  cup  sugar  4  teaspoons  cocoa  or  1 
%  teaspoon  salt  square  chocolate 
1  cup  milk  2  eggs  (good  with  one 
1%  cup  flour  egg) 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  salt,  vanilla.    Stir  together; 
add  flour,  chocolate,  baking  powder.  Drop  on  buttered  pan  with  a  tea- 
spoon; cover  with  nuts  as  desired.  Bake  in  hot  oven  (400  degrees)  ten 
minutes.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Preston. 

CHOCOLATE  RING  COOKIES 

1  cup  shortening  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  white  sugar  V2  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract 

3  cups  flour  2  squares  bitter  chocolate 
%  cup  milk  V2  cup  butter 

Have  shortening  room  temperature  and  put  into  the  mixing  bowl 
with  the  sugar  and  one  egg.  Mix  thoroughly  and  add  the  second  egg. 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  into  the  mixture.  Add  the  vanilla  and 
sufficient  milk  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Melt  the  chocolate  with  the 
butter  and  when  cool  spread  over  the  cooky  dough.  Roll  up  as  you 
would  a  jelly  roll.  Place  in  the  ice  box  until  very  cold.  Cut  in  rather 
thin  slices  and  bake  on  the  greased  broiler  pan  at  425  degrees  for  ten 
minutes.    Damper  first  notch.  Mrs.  A.  S.  Winsor. 

ICE-BOX  COOKIES 

V2  cup  butter  1  egg 

V2  cup  Crisco  2  cups  flour 

V2  cup  sugar 

Cream  butter  and  crisco  with  the  sugar.  Add  the  egg  and  the 
flour.  Mix  well  and  form  into  long  rolls  and  place  in  the  ice  box  over 
night.  Cut  thin,  brush  with  white  of  an  egg  and  sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  chopped  nuts.    Bake  at  350°  oven.  Miss  Amy  Knefler. 

CREAM  CAKES 

V2  cup  butter  4  eggs 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  cup  flour 

Heat  butter  and  water  until  boiling,  then  add  flour.  When  mixed, 
remove  from  range  and  add  unbeaten  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  well 
after  each  egg  is  added.  Drop  in  circular  shapes  on  a  buttered  sheet 
IY2  inches  apart,  having  each  cake  slightly  heaped  in  the  center.  Bake 
thirty  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Fill  with  cream  filling  just  before 
serving. 

Cream  Filling 

1/3  cup  flour  2  cups  scalded  milk 

%  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla  or  Y2 

Vs  teaspoon  salt  teaspoon  lemon 

2  eggs  extract 

Mix  flour,  sugar  and  salt.  Add  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  add  scalded 
milk.  Cook  fifteen  minutes  in  a  double  boiler,  and  stir  until  thickened. 
Cool  and  flavor.  Mrs.  Sturgis  E.  Leavitt. 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


73 


DATE  BARS 

1  cup  sugar  1%  teaspoons  baking 

1V2  cups  flour  powder 

1  cup  nuts  3  eggs,  beaten  separately 

1  lb.  dates  Pinch  of  salt 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 
Bake  45  minutes  in  moderate  oven.    Cut  in  bars  about  1  inch  wide. 
Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  them  while  warm.         Mrs.  Woollen. 

DOUGHNUTS 

2  cups  mashed  potatoes  1  cup  milk 

3  eggs  well  beaten  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  cups  sugar  5  cups  flour 

Beat  eggs  well,  add  sugar,  and  continue  beating  until  light.  Add 
melted  shortening  and  cold  mashed  potatoes.  Next  add  milk  and  mix 
until  smooth.  Add  dry  ingredients  which  have  been  sifted  together. 
Beat  well  but  always  keep  soft  dough.    Fry  in  hot  fat,  turning  often. 

Mrs.  H.  D.  Wolf. 

FRUITED  CRISPS 

2  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

1*4  cups  flour  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  1  cup  raisins  washed  and 

1  cup  almonds  cut  in  chopped 

strips 

Break  eggs  into  mixing  bowl,  beat  until  very  light.  Add  sugar  and 
blend  thoroughly.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  into  this  mixture. 
Add  the  raisins  and  almonds.  Grease  and  flour  boiler  pan  that  comes 
with  Universal  range,  and  spread  the  mixture  on  it  evenly.  Pan  on 
third  rack  up  from  bottom  of  oven.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  40  min- 
utes. Damper  first  notch.  To  remove  from  the  pan,  loosen  the  edges 
with  spatula  and  then  cut  into  sticks;  use  cake  turner  that  comes  with 
kitchen  set  to  remove  them.  This  recipe  makes  36  sticks  or  crisps  one 
inch  wide,  six  inches  long.    Keep  tightly  covered  in  coffee  can. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Winsor. 

FUDGE  CAKE 

4  eggs  2  cups  white  sugar 

2  cups  flour  XA  lb.  butter 

%  lb.  chocolate  (V2  cake)  2  cups  nuts  (%  lb.) 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  butter  and  chocolate  in  double  boiler.  Beat  eggs,  add  sugar 
and  flour.  Grease  pan.  Mix  all  together  and  spread  thin.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  about  20  or  30  minutes.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Mebane. 

GINGER  SPICE  CAKES 

V2  lb.  butter  V2  lb.  sugar 

2  tablespoons  lard  2  well  beaten  eggs 
Mix  together  and  add  to  the  above : 

1  pt.  New  Orleans  XA  teaspoon  ground  allspice 

molasses  %  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

1  tablespoon  ginger  2  tablespoons  ground 

1  teaspoon  ground  nutmeg  cinnamon 
Add  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  having  first  sifted  the 
flour  with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt.    Roll  on  board 
and  cut  with  cutters.    Bake  6  minutes  at  375  degrees  F. 

Mrs.  English  Bagby. 


74 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


ICE-BOX  COOKIES 


1  stick  of  butter 
1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  white  sugar 

2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 


x/z  teaspoon  soda 
1  tablespoon  hot  water 
1  cup  of  chopped  nuts 
Pinch  of  salt 
4Y2  cups  (Red  Band) 
flour 


Mix  well  and  make  into  three  long  rolls.  Put  into  ice  box  and 
make  the  next  day,  or  as  desired. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Grisette. 


IOWA  BUTTERSCOTCH  COOKIES 

1  cup  Crisco  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  brown  sugar  3  cups  pastry  flour 
2  eggs  unbeaten  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  nutmeats,  chopped  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

fine  Vz  teaspoon  soda 

Cream  Crisco  and  sugar  thoroughly.  Add  eggs.  Sift  flour,  salt, 
baking  powder  and  soda  together.  Add  to  the  first  and  mix  well.  Add 
nuts  and  vanilla.  Turn  onto  floured  board  and  knead.  Divide  into  rolls 
3  inches  in  diameter.  Roll  in  wax  paper  and  place  in  ice  box.  Slice 
thin  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  (350  degrees)  10  minutes.  This  makes 
at  least  75  cookies. 

Mrs.  George  Howard. 


Cfjames  Clotjjtng  §)|)op 

and 

Dry  Cleaning  Service 

RUSSELL  S.  SMITH,  Mgr. 


FOISTER  PHOTO  COMPANY 

Kodaks  —  Supplies  —  Finishing 

Chapel  Hill,  N.  C. 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


75 


JELLY  JUMBLES 

%  lb.  butter  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

2  eggs  Red  jelly 
SV2  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  egg  yolks  and  vanilla.  Put  baking 
powder  in  flour  and  add  last.  This  will  make  a  soft  dough  which  can 
be  rolled  and  cut  into  any  shape.  If  cut  round,  indent  with  bottle 
stopper  and  put  red  jelly  about  the  size  of  a  pea  in  the  center. 

Mrs.  N.  D.  Elliott. 

MERINGUES 

7  eggs  (whites  only)  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  sugar 

Beat  eggs  as  stiff  as  possible.  Fold  in  sugar.  Grease  cookie  sheet 
and  drop  on  with  tablespoon.  Set  oven  at  250.  Cook  40  minutes. 
Remove.  Scoop  out  center  of  uncooked  egg.  Fill  with  whipped  cream 
or  ice  cream,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  George  Howard. 

SOFT  MOLASSES  COOKIES 

1*  cup  shortening  V2  teaspoon  cloves 

1  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  salt 
4  teaspoons  soda  2  to  6  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  ginger  1  cup  sour  milk  or 
2  teaspoons  cinnamon  buttermilk 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar.  Add  molasses.  Sift  2  cups  of  the 
flour  with  the  other  dry  ingredients  and  add  alternately  to  first  mixture 
with  the  sour  milk.  Add  enough  more  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll 
and  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  sprinkle  sugar  on  top  and  bake  5  to  8  minutes 
in  rather  quick  oven  (375  to  400  degrees). 

Mrs.  G.  A.  Harrer. 

NUTTY  FINGERS 

lVi  sticks  creamery  butter  1  tablespoon  ice  water 

4  tablespoons  powdered  1  cup  nuts 

sugar,  cream  2  cups  flour 

1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Mold  and  cook  25  minutes  in  slow  oven,  300  degrees.  Dip  in  pow- 
dered sugar  and  serve. 

Mrs.  John  M.  Booker. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  COOKIES 

2/3  cup  shortening  SY2  cups  flour 

2  cups  brown  sugar  *4  teaspoon  salt 
2  eggs  2  teaspoons  soda 
2/3  cup  peanut  butter  3  tablespoons  cream 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  and  peanut  butter  and  beat 
until  soft  and  creamy.  Add  cream  and  dry  ingredients  (sifted  together). 
Mix  lightly.  Put  small  portions  on  greased  baking  sheet  and  flatten  with 
spoon.    Bake  12  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  E.  Peacock. 


76 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


PEANUT 

1  egg 

V2  cup  sugar 
XA  cup  butter 

2  tablespoons  milk 
1  cup  fine  peanuts 

Drop  from  teaspoon  on  greased 


COOKIES 

1  cup  flour 
1  tablespoon  baking 
powder 

Salt 


pan.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Preston. 


PECAN  BUTTERSCOTCH  COOKIES 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2  cups  flour 

Vz  lb.  butter  1  cup  pecans  chopped 

2  eggs  well  beaten 

Cream  butter  and  1  cup  sugar,  add  1  well  beaten  egg  and  mix  well. 
Add  flour,  work  in  gradually.  Now  spread  this  mixture  to  thickness  of 
pie  crust  on  buttered  baking  sheets.  Brush  thoroughly  with  the  other 
well  beaten  egg.  Sprinkle  with  V2  of  the  remaining  cup  of  sugar,  then 
with  the  cup  of  pecans.  Now  sprinkle  remaining  sugar  over  all.  Bake 
until  brown  in  350-degree  oven.  Cut  in  bars  but  do  not  remove  from  pan 
until  cookies  are  partly  cooled.  Mrs.  Pugh. 

PECAN  DREAMS 

%  lb.  butter  1  cup  pecans,  cut  coarse 

4  tablespoons  conf  ec-  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

tioner's  sugar  1  teaspoon  water 
1  cup  flour 

Cream  butter.  Mix  ingredients  well.  Roll  the  confections  in  palm 
of  hand  to  the  size  of  a  date.    Bake  in  slow  oven  (250  degrees).    Roll  in 

confectioner's  sugar  if  you  like.  Mrs.  Frank  W.  Hanft. 

PETIT-FOURS 

Break  three  large  eggs  into  top  part  of  double  boiler. 

Add  %  cup  sugar.  Set  over  hot  water  on  low  fire.  Beat  with  egg 
beater  until  light  and  frothy,  never  allowing  mixture  to  get  too  hot. 

Sift  pastry  flour.  Measure  %  cup  and  sift  again  with  %  teaspoon 
baking  powder.   Melt  V2  cup  of  butter. 

Remove  the  eggs  and  sugar  from  fire  and  add  butter  and  flour  alter- 
nately, working  quickly.  Add  teaspoon  vanilla.  Pour  into  well  greased 
shallow  pans  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes.  Cut  into  small 
squares  while  warm,  split  and  fill  with  jam  or  marmalade  and  frost. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Bullitt. 


RAISIN  TARTS 

1  cup  raisins  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  cup  sugar  Lemon  rind 

1  egg  Pastry 

1  soda  cracker  (crushed) 

Chop  raisins,  add  sugar,  egg  slightly  beaten,  cracker  crumbs,  lemon 
juice,  and  grated  rind.  Roll  pastry  and  cut  in  four-inch  squares.  On 
each  put  a  spoonful  of  filling.  Fold  pastry  over,  making  a  triangle.  Press 
the  edges  with  a  fork.   Bake  20  minutes  at  400  degrees. 

Mrs.  H.  F.  Munch. 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


77 


RASPBERRY  TARTLETS 

*4  lb.  cream  cheese  1  cup  flour 

%  lb.  butter 

Cream  cheese  in  butter  well,  then  add  sifted  flour.  Chill  in  ice  box 
over  night,  roll  thin  and  cut  with  cookie  cutter.  Bake  at  450  degrees  for 
15  minutes.  While  still  warm  make  dent  and  fill  with  raspberry  jam. 
Good  with  salads. 

Mrs.  R.  W.  Bost. 


SAND  TARTS 

Y2  lb.  butter  and  1  cup  sugar  mixed.  Add  yolks  of  3  eggs,  white  of 
one  egg  beaten  together.  Add  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  a 
little  salt  having  been  added  but  no  baking  powder.  Roll  out  thin  and 
cut  in  diamond  shape.  Brush  over  each  cake  with  white  of  the  eggs  not 
used  in  dough.  Place  %  blanched  almond  in  each  corner.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top.    Bake  450  degrees  F.  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  English  Bagby. 

SCOTCH  SHORTBREAD 

>  V2  lb.  flour  2  oz.  sugar 

%  lb.  butter 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  with  hand,  add  flour  and  continue  to  mix  with 
hand  until  all  flour  is  well  mixed.  Pat  mixture  on  baking  board  into  a 
square  %  inch  thick,  cut  into  "fingers"  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
light  brown. 

Mrs.  George  Logan. 

SOUTHERN  TEA  CAKES 

1  cup  shortening  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1%  cup  sugar  V2  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  V2  cup  milk 

3  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar.  Add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Sift  to- 
gether flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt  and  add  alternately  with  milk.  Add 
vanilla.  Let  stand  several  hours,  or  overnight,  in  refrigerator  before 
rolling.   Bake  at  450'  degrees  10  to  12  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Linker. 


SUGAR  COOKIES 

1%  cups  granulated  sugar  1  egg 

IY2  sticks  butter  V2  cup  sweet  milk 

%  cups  crisco  Nutmeg  sufficient  to  season 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar;  add  egg  and  stir;  add  milk  in  which 
soda  has  been  dissolved;  add  nutmeg  and  sufficient  flour  for  soft  dough. 
Roll  very  thin  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Bake  in  very  hot  oven  until 
golden  brown. 

Mrs.  James  M.  Bell. 


Jams  and  Marmalades 


APRICOT  MARMALADE 

Soak  1  pound  of  evaporated  apricots  in  4  cups  of  water  for  2  days. 
Then  add  1  cup  of  juice  from  a  can  of  pineapple  and  boil  gently  for  1 
hour.  Then  add  8  cups  sugar  and  1  cup  of  pineapple  diced,  and  a  little 
orange  peel  grated.  Simmer  until  mixture  will  jell  when  tried  on  cold 
plate.   Stir  constantly  at  the  last  and  put  in  small  jars. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Lay. 

GRAPE  CONSERVE 

Basket  of  Concord  Grapes  3  oranges  (cut  fine  with 

1  box  raisins  skins) 

3  lbs.  sugar 

Cook  as  for  peach  conserve.  Add  %  pound  nut  meats  and  seal  in  jars. 

Mrs.  S.  H.  Hobbs. 

JAPANESE  QUINCE  AND  APPLE  JELLY 

Japanese  quinces  from  our  decorative  shrubs  make  an  excellent  jelly, 
more  tart  than  that  from  ordinary  quinces.  An  equal  quantity  of  apple 
juice  should  be  used  with  the  quince  juice  unless  a  very  tart  jelly  is  de- 
sired. Cover  the  fruit  with  water  and  cook  until  tender.  To  the  strained 
juice  add  two-thirds  as  much  sugar  as  juice,  by  measure.  Finish  as  any 
jelly.  Mrs.  Paul  Green. 

PEACH  CONSERVE 
6  lbs.  peaches  (skinned  3  large  oranges  (cut  fine 

and  stoned)  with  skins  on) 

1  large  can  shredded  5  lbs.  sugar 

pineapple 

Put  all  ingredients  into  pot  and  cook  slowly  until  thick.  Remove 
from  fire,  add  A/4  pound  nut  meats  (chopped).    Seal  in  jars. 

Mrs.  S.  H.  Hobbs. 

PEACH  MARMALADE 

10  lbs.  of  fruit,  cut  up  Chopped  rind  of  1  orange 

%  lb.  of  sugar  to  each  to  every  3  lbs.  of 

lb.  of  peaches  fruit. 

Let  sugar  and  fruit  heat.    Add  rind  and  cook  slowly  until  thick. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Lay. 

PLUM  CONSERVE 

3  lbs.  of  seeded  plums  3  lbs.  sugar 

(Damsons  are  best.  3  oranges,  put  through 
Canned  will  do)  the  grinder  entire 

1  lb.  raisins  (omit  if  Juice  of  2  lemons  and 
desired)  grated  rind 

Cook  till  thick  and  add  %  of  a  pound  of  pecans,  chopped,  just  before 
taking  from  the  fire.  (If  the  orange  peel  should  be  tough  and  dry  in  the 
summer,  grate  the  peel  before  putting  the  oranges  through  the  grinder)  ► 

Mrs.  Paul  Green. 

STRAWBERRY  JELLY 

4  cups  berries  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
4  cups  sugar 

Wash  and  hull  the  strawberries.    Put  in  large  kettle,  add  the  sugar 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


79 


and  lemon  juice,  and  place  over  a  slow  fire  until  enough  juice  is  drawn  out 
to  prevent  burning.  Increase  the  heat  to  a  rolling  boil,  skimming  fre- 
quently. Boil  15  minutes  or  until  a  little  dropped  on  a  cold  plate  will  jelly. 
Pour  into  large  shallow  pan  and  set  in  the  sun  for  about  a  day,  dipping 
it  up  from  the  sides  occasionally  to  aid  evaporation.  When  thickened, 
dip  into  hot  sterilized  glasses  and  cover  with  paraffin. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Woosley. 
SUNFLOWER  MARMALADE 

Yz  medium  sized  2  lemons 

watermelon  5  lbs.  sugar 

4  oranges 

Use  only  rind  of  melon.  Prepare  as  if  making  watermelon  pickle. 
Grind  in  food  chopper.  Let  stand  over  night  in  just  enough  water  to 
cover.  Next  morning  drain  and  add  enough  water  to  cover  and  bring  to  a 
boil.  Do  this  twice.  Squeeze  juice  from  oranges  and  lemons  and  save. 
Bring  orange  and  lemon  peel  to  a  boil  twice.  Grind  in  food  chopper.  Add 
all  together  and  cook  for  two  hours.  Mrs.  M.  E.  Hogan. 

UNCOOKED  STRAWBERRY  JAM 

Use  lhi  pounds  of  sugar  for  each  pound  of  strawberries.  Add  the 
sugar  to  the  berries  and  crush  them  with  a  potato  masher.  Each  berry 
must  be  completely  crushed  to  a  pulp.  Put  the  fruit  in  a  cool  place  for 
24  hours,  stirring  occasionally.  When  all  the  sugar  is  dissolved  in  the 
juice,  fill  sterilized  jars,  seal  them,  and  store  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  Rasp- 
berries may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way.  Mrs.  Paul  Green. 

Pickles 

ARTICHOKE  CHOW  CHOW 

Yz  peck  artichokes  2  tablespoons  white 
4  large  onions  mustard  seed 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  2  tablespoons  celery  seed 

3  pts.  vinegar  3  tablespoons  salt 

1  tablespoon  turmeric  1  teaspoon  red  pepper 

Scrape  and  grind  coarsely  onions  and  artichokes.  Mix  with  seasoning 
and  vinegar.    Simmer  Yz  hour.    Seal  in  glass  jars. 

Mrs.  Wm.  MacNider. 
ARTICHOKE  PICKLE 
1  peck  artichokes  4  25c  bottles  sweet 

cucumber  pickle 

Dressing 

4  qts.  vinegar  2Yz  cups  flour 

10  cups  sugar  2  tablespoons  mustard 

3  tablespoons  salt  Y2  oz.  turmeric 

Scrape  and  cut  artichokes  and  let  stand  in  salt  water  over  night.  Soak 
well  next  morning. 

To  the  artichokes  and  pickles  add  the  above  dressing  and  cook  twenty 
minutes.  Mrs.  M.  H.  Stacy. 

CHOW  CHOW  PICKLES 
1  gal.  shredded  cabbage  2  tablespoons  salt 

Yz  gal.  green  tomatoes —  4  tablespoons  white 

cut  in  small  pieces  mustard  seed 

1  qt.  onions  Green  and  red  peppers  mixed 

1  qt.  vinegar  (any  amount  desired) 

3  cups  sugar  4  tablespoons  celery  seed 

Put  on  all  at  once  and  let  cook  until  tender.    Mrs.  Irene  F.  Lee. 


80 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES 

Vz  peck  green  tomatoes  3  teaspoons  cinnamon 

4  onions  3  teaspoons  allspice 

4  green  peppers  3  teaspoons  cloves 

1  cup  salt  2  qts.  vinegar 

%  cup  white  mustard  seed  1  lb.  brown  sugar 

2  teaspoons  pepper 

Chop  tomatoes,  onions,  and  peppers;  cover  with  salt  and  allow  to 
stand  over  night.  Drain;  and  add  to  vinegar,  spices,  and  sugar  which  have 
been  heated  to  boiling.    Cook  15  minutes  and  seal  in  sterilized  jars. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Page. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE 

1  peck  green  tomatoes  1  cup  salt 
6  large  onions 

Slice  tomatoes  and  onions,  sprinkle  with  the  salt,  and  let  stand  over 
night.    In  the  morning  drain  and  add 

2  qts.  water  1  qt.  vinegar 

Boil  15  minutes,  drain  and  throw  away  vinegar  and  water.  Then 
make  a  syrup  of — 

2  lbs.  sugar  2  tablespoons  allspice 

2  qts.  vinegar  2  tablespoons  ginger 

2  tablespoons  cloves 
When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  IV2  pounds  seeded  raisins  and  cook  until 
they  begin  to  get  a  little  tender.   Then  add  tomato  and  onion  mixture  and 
cook  all  together  until  tender.  Mrs.  R.  J.  M.  Hobbs. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES 

1  qt.  green  tomatoes  4  green  and  2  red  peppers 

2  qts.  white  onions  1  bunch  celery 
1  large  head  cauliflower 

Chop  all  together  and  let  stand  over  night  in  brine  made  of  1  pint 
salt  to  4  quarts  water.   In  the  morning  scald  in  brine  and  drain. 

Mix:  1  tablespoon  celery  seed 

4  tablespoons  mustard  in  cold  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  turmeric  1  cup  flour 

powder  2  cups  sugar 

Add  whole  to  2  quarts  boiling  vinegar.  Stir  until  thickened,  then  add 
to  chopped  vegetables  and  boil  five  minutes.    Mrs.  R.  J.  M.  Hobbs. 

PEPPER  AND  CABBAGE  RELISH-5  MINUTE 

24  red  bell  peppers,  sweet  2  medium-sized  cabbages 

18  green  bell  peppers  12  large  onions 

2  pods  hot  pepper 

Chop  each  vegetable  coarsely  and  put  each  in  a  separate  container, 
sprinkling  liberally  with  salt.  Cover  each  with  boiling  water.  Stand 
over  night.  Squeeze  dry  in  the  morning,  stir  together  and  add  enough 
vinegar,  spiced  and  sweetened  to  taste  and  heated,  to  cover  the  mixture 
well.  Cook  for  about  5  minutes.  If  a  red  color  is  desired  use  only  whole 
mustard  seed  with  a  little  whole  celery  seed.  The  vegetables  may  be  put 
through  the  food  chopper  if  a  finely  chopped  relish  is  desired. 

Mrs.  Paul  Green. 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


PEPPER  RELISH 

24  sweet  peppers  (red  6  hot  peppers 

and  green)  15  onions 

Grind  all  together  and  pour  hot  water  over  it  and  let  stand  5  minutes, 
then  drain  off  all  water.  Add 

1  qt.  vinegar  2  tablespoons  salt 
IY2  cups  sugar 

Let  boil  a  few  minutes  and  put  in  jars.    (Makes  about  Y2  gal.). 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Thompson. 

PICKLETTE 

Four  large  cabbage  heads,  one  quart  of  onions,  cut  up  together. 
Sprinkle  a  little  salt  now  and  then.  Let  stand  till  morning.  Then  take  2 
quarts  of  vinegar,  2  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  mustard, 
2  of  black  pepper,  1  of  cinnamon,  2  of  spice,  and  1  of  celery  seed. 

Place  on  the  stove  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  scald  cabbage  and 
onions.  Do  this  3  mornings,  the  third  morning  putting  all  in  a  kettle,  and 
letting  it  come  to  a  boil.  Mrs.  N.  H.  D.  Wilson. 

SAVORY  RELISH 

2  qts.  of  chopped  green  6  medium-sized  onions 

tomatoes  1  small  head  of  cabbage 

12  green  peppers 

Grind  in  meat  grinder,  add  1  cup  of  salt,  and  let  stand  overnight; 
drain  and  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  Y2  cup  of  mustard  seeds,  1  tablespoonful  of 
ground  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  of  celery  seeds,  and  3  cups  of  vinegar. 
Let  boil  5  minutes,  and  put  in  jars.  Mrs.  A.  C.  McIntosh. 

SLICED  TOMATO  PICKLE 

2Y2  gals,  sliced  tomatoes  1  doz.  large  green 

5  onions  size  of  large  peppers 
orange 

Cut  these,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  stand  over  night. 
Drain,  add  the  following,  and  cook  slowly  till  tender. 

1  lb.  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  cloves  ground 

1  lb.  granulated  sugar  1  teaspoon  allspice  ground 

Y2  gal.  vinegar  1  teaspoon  pepper  ground 

4  tablespoons  white  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

mustard  seed  ground 

5  tablespoons  celery  seed  1  teaspoon  ginger  ground 
1  tablespoon  ground 

mustard 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Lay. 

SWEET  PICKLES 

(Made  of  Canned  Peaches) 

Put  into  a  saucepan  2  sticks  of  cinnamon, 
1  cup  vinegar  broken  up 

1  cup  water  2  teaspoons  whole  cloves 

1  cup  brown  (or  white)  2  teaspoons  whole  allspice 

sugar  1  teaspoon  whole  mace 

When  this  comes  to  a  hard  boil,  drop  in  peaches  from  one  large 


82 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


can.  I  cut  mine  into  2  or  more  pieces.  Let  them  boil  gently  for  15  minutes. 
I  do  not  use  the  syrup  of  the  can. 

I  use  this  juice  over  and  over  just  adding  a  little  vinegar  now  and 
then. 

Mrs.  Julia  C.  Graves. 


VEGETABLE  HASH 

12  ears  corn  4  large  green  peppers 

head  cabbage  IV2  qts.  vinegar 

3  large  onions  2  cups  sugar 

4  large  red  peppers 

Cut  vegetables  fine.  Let  soak  in  salt  water  one  hour,  drain  well,  add 
to  vinegar  and  sugar  and  cook  for  30  minutes.    Seal  while  hot. 

Mrs.  Grady  Pritchard. 


WATERMELON  RIND  PICKLE 

6  lbs.  watermelon  rind  %  gal.  water 

Y2  bottle  Lilly's  Lime 

Prepare  rinds  and  let  stand  in  lime  water  overnight.  Boil  in  clear 
water  1  hour.  Cool  quickly  (under  running  water).  Boil  in  water  1  hour 
with  several  pieces  ginger.   Cool  and  cook  in  syrup  made  of — 

3  lbs.  sugar  1  tablespoon  whole  cloves 

1  qt.  vinegar  1  tablespoon  whole  allspice 

Put  spices  in  bag  before  placing  in  syrup.   Cook  until  transparent. 

Mrs.  M.  B.  Utley. 

WATERMELON  RIND  PICKLE 

Pare  and  cube  10  pounds  of  watermelon  rind.  Soak  over  night  in 
water  to  cover.  Add  one  bottle  of  Lilly's  Lime.  Next  morning  rinse  and 
boil  in  salt  water  20  minutes  (about  2  tablespoons  salt  to  gallon  water). 
Drain  and  boil  20  minutes  in  fresh  water.  Drain,  and  boil  in  syrup  made 
of  2  quarts  vinegar,  8  pounds  sugar,  with  tablespoon  allspice  and  table- 
spoon cloves  and  2  sticks  cinnamon.  Cook  until  rind  is  transparent  (about 
1  hour). 

When  nearly  cool,  place  in  jars  and  cover  with  syrup. 

Laura  Fuller  Bryant. 


Jefferson  Standard  Life  Insurance  Co. 

Greensboro,  N.  C. 


Representatives : 

JOHN  UMSTEAD 
JOHN  FOUSHEE 
W.  H.  BRANCH 


Drinks  and  Beverages 


DRIP  COFFEE 

Two  level  tablespoons  of  coffee  for  each  8-ounce  cup  of  boiling  water* 
ICED  COFFEE 

Fill  tall  glass  1-3  full  of  vanilla  ice  cream  and  one  tablespoon  cracked 
ice.   Fill  glass  with  strong  coffee. 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Lawson. 

PERCOLATOR  COFFEE 

Use  1  tablespoon  of  coffee  for  each  cup  of  water  and  allow  extra 
tablespoon  for  pot.    Percolate  10  or  12  minutes. 

COUNTRY  CLUB  PUNCH 

5  lbs.  sugar  %  cup  tea  or  small 

6  cups  water  package  Liptons 

6  cups  boiling  water 

Let  steep  5  minutes,  strain  into  sugar  and  syrup  and  cool. 

1  pt.  concentrated  Juice  of  3  doz.  lemons 

cherry  juice  Few  drops  of  peppermint 

2  large  cans  pineapple  oil 

(crushed) 

Combine,  serve  with  ice  in  punch  bowl,  and  have  slices  of  lemon  with: 
cloves  and  sprigs  of  mint.  Pour  2  bottles  of  ginger  ale  over  ice  for  med- 
ium-sized bowl.   Makes  about  5  bowls  full  or  enough  to  serve  100  people. 

Mrs.  E.  Carrington  Smith. 

PUNCH  FOR  100  PEOPLE 

3  doz.  lemons  1  cup  tea  leaves 

1  doz.  oranges  2  gals,  boiling  water 

1  can  red  cherries  8  lbs.  sugar 

2  cans  grated  pineapple  2  qts.  carbonated  water 
1  can  white  cherries  1  qt.  ginger  ale 

1  pt.  bottle  maraschino 
cherries 

NEHI  PUNCH 

1  can  small  diced  2  qts.  Par-T-Pak 

pineapple  Ginger  Ale 

1  small  jar  cherries  1  qt.  Par-T-Pak  Orange 

1  cup  sugar  1  qt.  Par-T-Pak  Grape 

Juice  of  2  lemons  2  qts.  Par-T-Pak 

Lime  Rickey 

Hoping  this  will  be  of  some  service,  I  remain 

Durham  Nehi  Bottling  Co- 

SUMMER  DRINK 

4  qts.  water  4  cups  sugar 
Boil  hard  20  minutes  and  let  stand  over  night; 

1  qt.  cranberries  1  cup  sugar 

3  cups  water 

Boil  and  strain  through  cheese  cloth,  combine  the  two. 

Add  to  it  juice  of  12  lemons,  grated  rind  of  4.    Heat,  strain,  bottle* 


84 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


and  seal,  and  put  in  cool  place.  Will  keep  indefinitely.  Serve  with  ice, 
and  if  too  sweet  dilute  with  water  and  fresh  lemon. 

Mrs.  Frank  Miller. 

RUSSIAN  TEA 

Make  1  quart  of  tea  first.  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves 

3  oranges  (tied  in  thick  cloth) 

2  lemons  1  teaspoon  grated  orange 

%  cup  sugar  peel 
Y2  cup  water 

Make  syrup  of  sugar  and  water.  Stir  this  into  tea.  Just  before  serv- 
ing add  juices  and  orange  peel  and  cloves  to  tea.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil. 
Strain  through  cheese  cloth. 

Note:  This  quantity  makes  8  teacups.         Mrs.  S.  G.  Sanders. 

Sandwiches 

CLUB  SANDWICHES 

Three  slices  of  bread  thinly  cut  in  desired  shape,  toasted  and  but- 
tered. Place  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf  on  lower  slice  and  on  it  put  thin  slices  of 
chicken  breast  and  tomatoes.  Put  on  this  a  second  slice  of  bread  (spread 
with  mayonnaise)  and  on  it  a  lettuce  leaf,  and  then  slices  of  broiled  bacon 
and  sliced  pickle  and  tomatoes.  Cover  with  third  slice  of  bread  that  has 
been  spread  with  mayonnaise  and  finish  with  the  long  slices  of  cucumber 
pickle. 

CREAM  CHEESE  AND  GUAVA  JELLY  SANDWICH 

1  slice  white  bread  Cream  cheese 

1  slice  brown  bread  Guava  jelly 

Spread  each  slice  with  butter.  Cover  the  slice  of  white  bread  with 
guava  jelly,  the  slice  of  brown  bread  with  cream  cheese.  Combine  and  cut 
into  attractive  shapes. 

HIGHLY  SEASONED  CHEESE  SANDWICHES 

To  2  pounds  of  cheese  add  1  large  green  pepper  and  1  onion.  Grind 
all.  Moisten  well  with  mayonnaise.  Season  to  taste.  Add  salt,  pepper, 
red  pepper,  tomato  catsup,  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  cream  mustard. 

TIDBITS  FOR  TEA 

Any  number  of  saltine  crackers,  marshmallows,  and  English  walnut 
kernels.  On  each  saltine  place  a  marshmallow  (breaking  the  marsh- 
mallow  slightly  so  it  will  stick  to  the  saltine). 

On  top  of  the  marshmallow  place  the  nut,  place  under  the  broiler 
until  marshmallow  is  toasted.   Remove,  cool  and  serve. 

Mrs.  English  Bagby. 

TOASTED  CHEESE  ROLL 
Into  a  pound  of  grated  cheese  stir  enough  cream  to  make  a  smooth 
paste.  Add  salt  and  pepper  or  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce.  Cut  fresh 
bread  into  thin  slices,  keep  in  damp  cloth  until  spread  with  mayonnaise 
and  cheese  paste.  Roll  and  fasten  with  tooth  pick.  Toast  in  moderate 
oven,  remove  tooth  picik  and  serve  immediately. 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


85 


CHEESE  AND  PEPPER  RELISH 

1  cup  grated  American  1  tablespoon  finely 

cheese  chopped  onion 

2  medium  size  green 

sweet  peppers 

Mix  with  any  food  salad  dressing.  Mrs.  I.  C.  Griffin. 

TOASTED  FRUIT  SANDWICHES 

1  cup  raisins  1  cup  figs 

1  cup  dates  1  cup  nuts 

Put  through  chopper  and  moisten  with  cream.    Spread  between  slices 

of  bread. 

SANDWICH 
(Ham  Open  Face) 

Grind  ham,  season  with  chutney.  Spread  on  thin  slice  of  bread.  Dot 
the  top  with  grated  cheese.    Toast  and  serve  immediately. 

HOT  LAMB  SANDWICH 

Four  slices  of  buttered  toast.  Place  on  each  slice  of  bread  pieces  left 
over  lamb.  Take  1  tablespoon  butter  blended  with  2  tablespoons  flour, 
add  1  can  mushroom  soup.    Cook  till  thick  and  pour  over  sandwich. 

CUCUMBER  SANDWICHES 

4  cucumbers  (2  lbs.).  Peel  and  dice  fine.  Put  ice  on  top  of  cucumbers 
and  set  in  refrigerator  1  hour.  Drain  well  and  salt.  Mix  1  package 
cream  cheese  with  1  pt.  Wilson's  savory  boiled  dressing.  Add  cayenne 
pepper,  and  little  vinegar.    Makes  2  sandwich  loaves  sliced  medium  thin. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Shields. 

MEAT  SANDWICH  FILLING 

%  lb.  lean  steak  %    tube  anchovy  paste 

%  lb.  smoked  ham 

Steam  meats  in  double  boiler  until  tender,  and  then  put  through  fine 
grinder.  Into  the  liquid  from  meats  stir  the  anchovy  paste,  add  ground 
meat.  Mix  well  and  cool.   Can  be  kept  in  closed  jars. 

TOASTED  MUSHROOM  SANDWICH 

Melt  3  tablespoons  butter,  add  4  tablespoons  flour  and  1  cup  cream. 
Bring  to  boiling  point  and  add  chopped  sauteed  mushrooms.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  paprika.  Add  dash  of  nutmeg  and  use  just  enough  sauce 
to  hold  mixture  together.  Remove  crusts  from  slices  of  stale  bread. 
Spread  with  mushroom  mixture,  put  together  and  cut  in  finger  shaped 
pieces.  Saute  in  butter  till  brown  and  toast  under  flame  of  oven.  Serve 
very  hot. 

OPEN-FACED  SANDWICH 

Open  sandwiches  may  be  cut  to  a  great  variety  of  shapes,  with  cookie 
cutters,  or  knife  and  decorated  according  to  personal  preference.  Cream 
cheese,  faintly  tinted,  makes  a  good  spread.  They  may  be  decorated 
with  chopped  pickles,  pimento,  candied  cherries  or  sliced  stuffed  olives. 

Mrs.  Les  Forgrave. 


86  The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 

RAISIN  SANDWICHES 

1  cup  ground  raisins  1  cup  sugar 

1  lemon  rind  ground  1  cup  mayonnaise 

(squeeze  out  juice  1  egg 

first) 

Beat  egg  and  add  lemon  juice,  rind  and  sugar,  put  on  stove  and  boil 
until  dissolved.  Add  raisins  and  mayonnaise  and  cook  10  minutes  or  until 
it  thickens.    Stir  constantly.  Mrs.  M.  E.  Hogan. 

RAISIN  AND  NUT  SANDWICHES 

Grind  seeded  raisins  and  pecans  or  English  walnuts  through  meat 
chopper.  Take  equal  quantities  of  each.  Mix  with  orange  juice  and  spread 
between  very  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

ROLLED  SANDWICHES 

Cut  fresh  bread  very  thin.    Remove  crusts  and  spread  with  desired 
filling.   Roll.   Fasten  with  tooth  pick.   Wring  a  cloth  out  in  cold  water 
and  cover  until  time  to  serve.    Remove  tooth  pick  before  serving. 
Suggested  fillings: 

Cream  cheese  with  chopped  nuts  or  olives 
Peanut  butter  creamed  with  mayonnaise 
Salmon  or  crabmeat  mixed  with  mayonnaise 
Orange  marmalade  or  your  favorite  jelly 
Minced  onion,  cucumber  or  celery  moistened  with  mayonnaise 
Spread  bread  with  mayonnaise  and  roll  around  stalk  of  asparagus. 

RIBBON  SANDWICHES 

Slice  whole  wheat  bread  and  white  bread  thinly.  Make  pimento  cheese 
filling  into  thin  paste.  Spread  on  bread.  Place  three  slices  of  white  and 
two  of  the  whole  wheat  alternately  on  top  of  one  another.  Trim  off  crusts 
and  slice  down  through  the  thicknesses.  Repeat. 

ROQUEFORT  CHEESE  AND  GUAVA  JELLY  SANDWICH 

Mix  xk  pound  Roquefort  cheese  with  butter  and  cream  to  reduce  to 
soft  paste.  Season  with  Worcestershire  sauce.  Spread  this  mixture  on  a 
slice  of  buttered  white  bread  and  spread  the  Guava  jelly  on  buttered 
brown  bread.    Combine  both  slices  and  cut  into  fancy  shapes. 

SARDINE  SANDWICHES  (OPEN  FACE) 

Empty  one  box  of  sardines,  remove  skin  and  bone  and  rub  to  paste; 
add  one  teaspoon  of  prepared  mustard,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  melted 
butter,  xk  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little  cayenne,  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  mix 
well.  Cut  bread  in  thin  slices  and  spread  first  with  butter,  then  with  a 
thin  layer  of  the  mixture.  Do  not  put  slices  together  but  garnish  with  thin 
slices  of  olive  and  arrange  on  platter. 

SANDWICH  FILLINGS 
Pepper  Sandwiches 

One  small  can  of  sweet  red  pepper,  IV2  small  cans  potted  ham.  Mix 
and  add  mayonnaise. 

Cheese  and  Olive  Sandwiches 

Chop  olives,  mix  with  highly  seasoned  cheese  and  spread. 


Candies 


DATE  NUT  ROLL  CANDY 

Small  lump  butter  (size  1  cup  shredded  dates 

of  an  egg)  (pulled  apart  by 

1  cup  white  sugar  fingers) 
1  cup  brown  sugar  xk  cup  nuts  or  more 

1  cup  milk 

Boil  sugar  and  milk,  add  dates  and  when  it  starts  boiling,  STIR.  To 
test  stir  a  spoonful  in  saucer  occasionally  until  it  creams.  Take  off  fire 
when  it  creams  in  saucer  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  be  very  thick.  Roll 
in  wet  towel.  Mrs.  Watt  Cooper. 

BEST  OF  ALL  FUDGE 

V±  cup  butter  V2  cup  thin  cream 

1  cup  white  sugar  1  %  teaspoons  vanilla 

1  cup  brown  sugar  3  squares  (3  oz.) 

%  cup  white  syrup  chocolate 

1  cup  nut  meats 

Melt  butter  over  slow  heat.  In  another  vessel  mix  sugar,  syrup  and 
cream.  Add  this  to  butter  and  bring  to  boiling  point,  stirring  constantly. 
When  mixture  is  boiling  add  melted  chocolate.  Stir  steadily  and  cook  to 
soft-ball  stage.  Remove  from  fire,  add  nuts  and  vanilla  and  stir  until  it 
thickens.   Pour  in  greased  pan,  and  when  cool  cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  Harold  Meyer. 

DIVINITY  FUDGE 

2  cups  sugar  Yz  cup  water 
Y2  cup  white  Karo  syrup 

Boil  until  brittle  in  cold  water,  then  pour  slowly  over  the  beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs,  and  beat  until  almost  cold.  Add  cup  of  walnuts,  little  vanilla, 
and  pour  into  buttered  pan. 

"FOOL-PROOF  FUDGE" 

1  lb.  Confectioner's  sugar  1  small  jar  Hip-O-Lite 

1  small  can  Pet  milk  1  cup  nuts 

1  small  cake  Baker's  Butter  (size  of  egg) 

Chocolate  1  teaspoon  vanilla  flavoring 

Cook  sugar,  milk  and  chocolate  to  soft-ball  stage.  Set  to  cool,  after 
adding  Hip-O-Lite,  butter  and  flavoring.  Beat  until  ready  to  spread, 
adding  nuts  just  before  pouring  on  the  platter. 

Mrs.  Phil  S.  Randolph. 

MEXICAN  CANDY 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2  cups  of  pecans 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  tablespoon  vanilla 
V2  cup  cream  (or                            A  pinch  of  salt 

evaporated  milk) 

Cook  the  first  four  ingredients  to  the  soft-ball  stage.  Cool,  then  beat 
until  the  candy  thickens.  Add  vanilla  and  nuts.  Drop  on  waxed  paper. 
This  candy  must  not  be  cooked  too  long,  nor  beaten  after  it  has  begun 
to  set. 

MOLASSES  CREAM  COCOANUT  PATTIES 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  cup  dry  cocoanut 

1  cup  thick  dark  molasses  A  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar 

Y2  cup  milk 

Cook,  stirring  constantly,  to  the  firm-ball  stage.   Allow  to  cool  in  a 


88 


The  Chapel  Hill  Cook  Book 


platter,  then  beat  and  knead  like  fondant.  If  cocoanut  is  omitted,  there 
is  less  danger  of  burning  while  cooking  and  the  balls  of  fondant  may  be 
rolled  in  cocoanut.  This  makes  a  smooth  creamy  candy.  It  may  be  formed 
into  balls  with  nuts  pressed  into  them,  or  it  may  be  coated  with  chocolate. 

Mrs.  Paul  Green. 

CANDIED  NUTS 

1  cup  sugar  Lump  of  butter 

V2  cup  milk 

Cook  these  until  they  make  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Add  vanilla  and 
while  hot,  pour  and  stir  in  nuts  until  they  separate. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Kenfield. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  CANDY 

Blend  together  2  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  V2  cup  of  milk  and  2  table- 
spoonsful  of  peanut  butter.  Boil  5  minutes,  remove  from  the  fire,  and 
beat  steadily  until  cool.  Pour  in  buttered  plate  and  cut  in  squares.  Very 
simple,  but  very  good. 

Mrs.  Fred  Patterson. 

GINGERED  PECANS 

1  lb.  pecans  or  other  nuts  %  cup  boiling  water 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  ground  ginger 

Have  nut  meats  as  near  whole  as  possible.  Boil  sugar  and  water 
until  it  makes  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  ginger 
and  nut  meats.  Stir  quickly.  When  the  syrup  begins  to  sugar  on  the 
nuts,  turn  out  on  a  platter  to  cool.  When  they  are  cool  enough  to  handle, 
pull  the  nuts  apart. 

Cinnamon  may  be  substituted  for  the  ginger. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Grisette. 

PRALINES 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  %  teaspoon  of  soda 
1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  raw                  2  cups  of  pecans 

Cook  sugar  and  milk  till  it  bubbles,  then  add  soda.  Simmer  very 
slowly,  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball  in  water  (it  should  require  about  an 
hour).  Beat  until  it  is  creamy,  add  nuts,  which  are  left  whole,  and  drop 
on  waxed  paper. 

Mrs  Milton  Heath. 

TURKISH  DELIGHT  CANDY 

1  oz.  gelatin  Rind  of  1  lemon 

V2  cup  cold  water  Juice  of  1  orange 

1  lb.  sugar  y2  cup  nut  meats 

V2  cup  boiling  water  Pink  coloring  matter 
Rind  of  orange,  grated 

Soak  gelatin  in  cold  water,  boil  sugar  with  water  and  add  to  gelatin 
mixture.  Let  simmer  20  minutes.  Add  flavoring,  coloring  and  strain. 
Add  nuts  and  turn  into  bread  tin  to  one  inch  thickness.  Let  cool,  cut  in 
cubes  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.  Watt  Cooper. 


ADDITIONAL  RECIPES 


New  or  favorite  recipes  may  be  written  here. 


ADDITIONAL  RECIPES 


New  or  favorite  recipes  may  be  written  here. 


ADDITIONAL  RECIPES 


New  or  favorite  recipes  may  be  written  here. 


ADDITIONAL  RECIPES 


New  or  favorite  recipes  may  be  written  here. 


JIB  SSL 

DUU426996- 


iioi866iz:oa 


