ms hai ce 
: | Po ESS fe ae SONG * 


: THARLEST 


ys oe (my RTLE eS 
ee % n 
Cine : 
x 


Wi 
Oe 


KINGSTREE 
I Ss aint = 


a er 


i 


: \ 
TY SUMMERVIELE Na)! 
MLEBA G GARDENS — 


Aw? 


nr 


STN IL 


WALTERBORO 


GX23054 


SNE EE / >I sy Yr ae, wh 7 BK aE CW. YY GAT BOT 


pe 
#8 


i 


PATE 


a J 


- 


» gael 7 


Proceeds from the sale of CHARLESTON RECEIPTS go to 
all community projects of the Junior League of Charleston. 


If Unable to Obtain 
“CHARLESTON RECEIPTS” 
Through your Local Dealer 


Send $2.75 plus .20 Mailing Charges to 
“CHARLESTON RECEIPTS” 
P. O. Box 177 Charleston, S. C. 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 
COLLECTED 


BY 
THE JUNIOR LEAGUE 
OF 


CHARLESTON 


1950 


Corrnzicut 1950 


THE JUNIOR LEAGUE OF CHARLESTON, INC. 


First PRINTING 

SECOND PRINTING 

Tarp PRINTING 

FourTH PRINTING 

Firrs PRINTING 

SrxtH PRINTING (REVISED) 
SEVENTH PRINTING 
EicHTH PRINTING 

NINTH PRINTING 

TENTH PRINTING 


ELEVENTH PRINTING 


NovEMBER 1950 
DECEMBER 1950 
MarcH 1951 
June 1951 
NOVEMBER 1951 
OcrToBER 1952 
Aprit 1953 
OctoBEer 1954 
DECEMBER 1956 
Aprit 1958 
Marcu 1961 


Printed by 


WALKER, EVANS & COGSWELL CO. 
Cwarireston, Sours CaARroLina 


2,000 
3,000 
5,000 
5,000 
10,000 
15,000 
15,000 
15,000 
15,000 
25,000 
25,000 


Receipt vs. Recipe 


Throughout this book, as you will see, 
We never mention recipe,— 

The reason being that we felt, 
(Though well aware how it is spelt!), 
That it is modern and not meet 

To use in place of old receipt 

To designate time-honored dishes 


According to ancestral wishes. 
1 ek 


COOK BOOK COMMITTEE 
The Sustaining Members of the Junior League of Charleston 
EDITORS 


Mary Vereen Huguenin Anne Montague Stoney 


MIDDLETON PLACE 1741 


Foreword 


There was a time when folks had cooks, 
Who never did depend on books 
To learn the art of cooking. 

The help knew all the tunes by ear, 
And no one dared to interfere; 
They brooked no overlooking. 


But times have changed, for worse we fear, 
Housewives handle the kitchen ware, 
And must learn how to cook. 
With that in mind, we've dug and delved, 
_ And unearthed treasures long been shelved, 
And placed them in this book. 


It represents a world of toil, 
And burning of the midnight oil; 
Correction and suggestion. 

At long last it’s completed now, 
And offered with the hope, somehow 
‘Twill aid to good digestion. 


People have been more than kind, 
In writing us on what they dine, 
And just how you should cook it. 

If at times a family tree, 

Has intruded for all to see, 
Why you must overlook it. 


Gifted artists have unstinting, 
Lent their works for our printing 
In this volume new. 

You may feast your eyes while reading 
Some receipt you may be needing, 
For the punch you wish to brew. 


The proceeds from this book will go, 
To projects of the League, you know: 
That is why we sell it. 
"Twas lots of work, but a lot of fun, 
And if you think our book’s well done, 
Don't hesitate to tell it. 
Ae ao: 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


Cover—Elizabeth O’Neill Verner 
Helen Devereux O’Neill 
Frontispiece—Minnie Robertson Mikell 


Page 
Miles Brewton House—Mark Young —.-_ CB 
St. Philip's Church—Elizabeth O’Neill Verner _ 32 
Old Saint Andrews Church—Alfred Hutty ____ ee 80 
Harvesting Rice—Anna Heyward Taylor ___...__-_-s dA 
Snow's Island in the Pee Dee—Alice Huger Smith __... 157 


American Red Cross Headquarters—Mary Agnes Lansdowne _.185 
Sword Gates—Julia Homer Wilson 220 
St. Michael's Church—Elizabeth O’Neill Verner 244 


Gullah Lines—Mary Deas Ravenel 


Louise Frierson Kerr 


Chapter Verses—Louise Frierson Kerr 


References concerning the literary works of our contributors 


were composed by the Cook Book Committee. 


CONTENTS 


. Here’s how we read our Gullah locatty, 
To understand, pronounce it vocally. 


; Page 
PE RAGES ME eae ata Ee Bey 7 
BE NAPE Sto. = 0 Pibene Sic Pee OT 
SOLED guess ot Oe a Sask a 
ERAT OODS Ge aia eee OMEEe eS te. 4p 
BEAT Sete ead reel os a i eR BT 
AME eee ae Bee eA hd ee wT 
POMINYSAND RICE eee oder 1 eS os 
Be ETA BLS fae eit a MIR ree ee TAO 
ReuEBRE ADS 0 Seer nee a eh ee ee e158 
BREADS). 1 cde 2) eee ARR AL! 7-179 
DESSERTS oom. so meme ey ean (SP 8766 
Re RICREAMS 2 = ee o> Boe Wet edee, CAI, 509 
Leen SER, See Se S| 
eT a eS iy ee A 
EOGKIES =! alee ee cadens eae tere, ( F O4F 
CANDIES). Steet ey EE oe as te. x7 769 
PIEKLESIAND RELISHES = aueeeeetat Sv 974 
SHORTGCUTS Wet eee ee as! Bong 
IAPEENDIX® 2 eek to 6. a is SONG 
INDEX pMeihld do tae ce eee ae 323 


In order to insure the greatest possible accuracy, finished proofs 
of receipts were submitted to contributors for correction before 
being sent to press. 


Trade names of products are given only when necessary. 


«a 
Vy 


‘ 
i] 


Ca 
S 


MILES BREWTON HOUSE 1765 


BEVERAGES 


“Ef yuh teck a heapa haa‘d likker, yuh gwine tink deep en’ talk 
strong.” 
Ratifia is a drink 
That ought to make you pause and think. 
The drink is thimble-sized, it’s true, 

But what that thimble does to you ! ! ! 
Remember, e’er you grow too bold, 
That David knocked Goliath cold! 


Beverages 


Most of these old Charleston receipts, reflecting the pleasant 
living of past generations, are here presented for the first time. In 
adapting the punch formulas to modern use, the following com- 
ments may prove helpful. 

The unit of measure designated herein is the quart, since most 
of the “spirits” used by our ancestors were imported in casks and 
bottled in this country in quarts. (The contents of the casks were 
partially aged by the rolling in the holds of sailing ships—even our 
domestic liquors were shipped around the Horn for “improvement”. 
Now most spirits, imported and domestic, come in “fifths.” 

Many of these original receipts specified Jamaican rum, how- 
ever, today Puerto Rican and other good rums are often used. Now- 
adays triple sec is frequently substituted for curacao, and brandy for 
cognac. 

And never forget that punch stock should be poured over a 
block of ice and served cold, cold, cold! 


St. Cecilia Punch 


6 lemons 1 quart green tea 

1 quart brandy 1 pint heavy rum 

1 pineapple 1 quart peach brandy 
114 pounds sugar 4 quarts champagne 


2 quarts carbonated water 


Slice lemons thin and cover with brandy. Allow to steep for 24 
hours. Several hours before ready to serve, slice the pineapple into 
the bowl with the lemon slices, then add the sugar, tea, rum and 
peach brandy. Stir well. When ready to serve, add the champagne 
and water. 80-90 servings. 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Charleston Light Dragoon Punch 


1 quart grenadine syrup 1 quart bottle red cherries 

1 bottle curacao syrup 1 quart can white cherries 

1 quart raspberry syrup 1 quart can sliced pineapple 
8 gallons rye whiskey 6 dozen oranges 

2 quarts light rum 6 dozen lemons 

14 pound green tea leaves Carbonated water 


First secure an 8 gallon crock. Put in the juice of the oranges 
and lemons and stir thoroughly. Continue to stir and slowly pour 
in the grenadine, curacao and raspberry syrups, then the green tea, 
which is made as described below. Add red cherries, white cherries, 
pineapple and their juices. Stir thoroughly, and slowly add the rye 
whiskey and light rum. Bear in mind the necessity of constantly 
stirring as this is the only way to blend the punch properly. 


To make the tea: Boil the orange and lemon skins in 2 quarts of 
water, then use the orange and lemon flavored water to draw the tea. 
Cool before using. 


This punch stock (6% gallons) should be made at least 4 days 
before using and stirred from time to time. First serving should be 
2 parts of punch stock to 1 part carbonated water poured over ice. 
Then | part punch stock to 1 part carbonated water can be served. 
300-350 servings. 

Joun Laurens 


Otranto Club Punch 


1 pound loaf sugar 1 pint peach brandy 

1 quart strong green tea 1 quart heavy or light rum 
Juice of 12 lemons, strained 2 quarts brandy or 

1-3 quarts carbonated water rye whiskey 


Dissolve the sugar in the tea; add the lemon juice, peach 
brandy, rum and the brandy or whiskey. Use an abundance of ice, 
adding a liberal quantity of carbonated water. 50-70 servings. 

Louis Y. Dawson, Jr. 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cotillion Club Punch 


(As served at the Club’s last dance some years ago.) 


% lb. gun powder (green) 12 quarts carbonated water 
tea (makes 5 quarts) 6 or 8 qts. rye whiskey 

1 quart cherries % pint rum 

2 dozen lemons (juice) 1 lb. sugar made into 

Fruit syrup (about 14 pint) thick syrup 


Pour 5 quarts boiling water onto the tea, bring this to a boil; 
remove from fire at once and let stand until strong enough. Strain 
and, when cool, add juice of lemons, syrup from the cherries and 
also the rye and rum. Sweeten to taste with any fruit syrup; add 
sugar syrup and cherries. Bottle this stock and keep on ice until 
ready to serve. Pour over block of ice, add 1 quart of carbonated 
water to 1 quart of stock. This stock can be kept indefinitely if 
bottled and sealed. Yield: 275-800 servings. 

A CHARLESTON GENTLEMAN 


Champagne Punch 


¥% pound best green tea 12 pounds sugar 

(makes 10 qts.) 12 quarts carbonated water 
10 bottles brandy 12 quarts champagne 
10 bottles light rum 1 quart maraschino cherries 
5 dozen lemons 2 cans pineapple chunks 


Make syrup of the sugar with 1 quart of water and boil until 
slightly thick, add the juice from the pineapple chunks and let come 
to a boil. To make tea, bring 10 parts of water to a boil and pour 
onto tea; Jet stand until strong, then strain and when cool add syrup, 
rum, brandy, juice of lemons, cherries, and pineapple chunks. Make 
this at least 5 days before using. Chill stock and champagne, and 
when ready to serve, mix 3 quarts stock to 1 quart champagne and 
1 quart carbonated water. (Three quarts of carbonated water may 
be used for the ladies’ punch.) Stock should be kept in tightly 
corked bottles. 600-650 servings. 

(From A CHar.eston Lapy’s Receret Boox oF THE 1890's) 


9 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Regent’s Punch 
(As mixed at Lewisfield Plantation, 1788) 


% pound rock candy ¥% bottle sherry 
High grade green tea 1 tumbler brandy 
1 bottle champagne 1 lemon, sliced 


Dissolve rock candy in approximately 1 pint hot tea. When 
cold, add other ingredients and serve with ice. 20-25 servings. 
R. BENTHAM SIMONS 


Legaré Street Punch 


“This mixture makes a very palatable drink with plenty of authority” 


1 quart sauterne 1 pint cognac 
2 quarts champagne Ice 
1 quart carbonated water 


Mix the sauterne and cognac, adding last the champagne and 
carbonated water. Pour over ice and serve immediately. 36-40 
servings. 

Wri1amM A. HurTcHINson 


Frost Punch 


1 pint strong green tea 1 wineglass of curacao 

Peel of 4 lemons, pared thin 1 pint brandy (cognac) 
Juice of 8 lemons Y% pint heavy rum 

1 pineapple, sliced thin 2 pints soda water 

1 pound sugar 2 quarts champagne, chilled 


Mix all ingredients but soda water and champagne. Add soda 
water and champagne just before serving. 50-60 servings. 
Miss ELLEN PARKER 


10 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Rum Punch 


“This was the punch my father made for all the debutante 
parties of my generation.” 


1 gallon brandy 2 quarts black tea 
¥ gallon heavy or light rum 2 dozen lemons 
1 pint peach brandy Sugar to taste 


5-6 quarts carbonated water 


Add carbonated water just before serving, more or less accord- 
ing to the strength punch is to have. 1 pint curacao or maraschino 
as well as strawberries, cherries or a few slices of pineapple may be 
added. 130-140 servings. 

Mrs. Ratpo Hanson (Eleanor Rutledge) 


Simons’ Special 
If using heavy rum: 
1 part rum 
3 parts gin 
If using light rum: 
1 part rum 
2 parts gin 
Lemon mixture: 
1 part lemon juice 
3 parts water 
Sugar to taste 


Using the gin and rum mixture as above; use 1 part of this and 
add 3 parts lemon mixture sweetened so it is just off the tart side. 
Do not sweeten too much as a rum drink does not need much sugar. 


W. Lucas Simons 


1] 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Charleston Cup (winter version) 


For each serving: 


2 ounces light rum Y% ounce orange juice 
1 ounce orange curacao 1 teaspoon sugar 


To the rum, add curacao, then orange juice with sugar dis- 
solved. Mix well and pour over ice in a bowl. Serve in chilled cups. 
DANIEL RAVENEL 


Cool o’ the Evening (summer version) 


For each serving: 


1 sprig mint ¥% teaspoon sugar 
Juice of 1%4 lemon 2 ounces light rum 


Crush mint in shaker; add other ingredients, using finely 
chopped ice, and shake until frost forms. Serve in chilled glasses. 
DANIEL RAVENEL 


Lazy Man’s Old Fashioned 


For each serving: 


1 teaspoon orange marma- 1 finger (measured hori- 
lade zontally) light (dark) 
3 dashes angostura bitters rum or whiskey 


Crushed ice (not too fine) to fill glass 


Stir until it tastes right, add spirits, if necessary, to the result. 
y SAMUEL GAILLARD STONEY 


Gin and Sherry Cocktail 


1 part gin Dash angostura bitters 
1 part dry sherry Ice 
Shake well with ice and serve immediately. 

Mrs. Aucustine T. S. Srongy (Louisa Jenkins) 


12 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mint Julep 


For each cold goblet use: 


Several mint leaves Crushed, dry ice 
Sugar syrup 2 ounces bourbon 
(2 or 3 teaspoons) 1 sprig mint 


Crush leaves and let stand in syrup. Put this into a cold, silver 
julep cup or glass and add ice, which has been crushed and rolled in 
a towel to dry. Pour in whiskey. Stir, not touching the glass, and 
add sprig of mint. Serve immediately. 

Mrs. Cuarues S. Dwicut (Lucille Lebby) 


Colonel Aiken Simons’ Mint Julep 


Having ready as many thin highball glasses as necessary, pro- 
ceed as follows: 


Take a pitcher or jug of suitable size and place therein a tea- 
spoonful of sugar for each julep to be mixed, add just enough water 
to dissolve the sugar: about an equal volume of water to the sugar 
will do if you stir enough. Then pour in a whiskey glass of spirits 
for each julep and stir up with the syrup. Select 4 or 5 fine sprigs of 
mint and put them into the mixture. Whether this mint is to be 
crushed or not is controversial and depends on the strength of the 
mint and the taste of individuals. Crush the mint and let stand 
awhile. 


Then fill each glass with broken ice, taking care not to get the 
outside of the glass wet as that would interfere with frosting. Divide 
the contents of the pitcher among the glasses and stir each vigorous- 
ly. The ice will have subsided and the glasses must be filled up 
with ice and again stirred briskly. The frost by this time has formed 
a thick white coating on the glass, so the glass should be handled 
cautiously to avoid marring the frost which is the pride and joy of 
a Julep Artifex. Then choose very fine sprigs of mint for the gar- 
nishing; stick one in each glass and serve. 

ALBERT SIMONS 


13 


Plantation Toddy 
1 lump sugar Small piece lemon skin 
2 cloves 1 pony rye whiskey 
Pour into toddy glass with a little cracked ice. Adda 
nutmeg. ie me 


Wituiam A. Hurcut 
Plantation Greeter “a 
1 jigger of bourbon or rye Dash of grenadine 
Dash of lemon juice Dash of Benedictine 
Sur in ice until cold and serve in a stem glass with a mar 
cherry. a 
| DanteL Ra ED i 
Captain S. G. Stoney’s Claret Sanger 
2 claret glasses of claret — Juice of one small lime 


Sugar to taste 
Pour into large goblet and serve with crushed ice. 
Mrs. ALBerr Simons (Harriet Sto 


Sherry Bolo 


3 sherry glasses of sherry _ Juice of 1 lime 
Sugar to taste 


Serve with crushed ice. 


Sauterne Cup 3 

1 bottle sauterne or 3 lemons or 6 limes 

white wine 1 tablespoon marasc 

1 quart carbonated water Bunch of mint 

Sugar 3 ee 

Make a syrup to taste of lime or lemon juice and sugar. ye 
wine and water on ice. Mix just before serving. Put mint in te 0 Of 

pitcher. 20 servings. 


14 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Flip 
This refreshing drink was in vogue in England in the 18th cen- 
tury and was brought to Carolina when settled by the Lords Pro- 
prietors. The South Carolina Society of Colonial Dames owns a 


Flip bowl or glass. It is of glass, small at the bottom and gradually 
widens to the top. It holds about a quart. 


4 jiggers whiskey 4 teaspoons sugar 
4 egg yolks 1 quart rich milk 
' Nutmeg to taste 
Beat yolks, sugar, and seasoning together. Add milk and 
whiskey. Shake well with crushed ice, strain and serve in stemmed 


glasses with a dash of nutmeg on top. 8-10 servings. 
Miss ELLEN PARKER 


Cherry Bounce 


1 quart wild cherries 1 quart whiskey 
1 cup sugar 


Go to Old Market in June and get a quart of wild cherries. Wash 
same and put in a Jarge-mouthed jar with a full cup of sugar. Let 
stand until juice draws, then add a quart of whiskey. Cover lightly 
and steep about ten days, then pour off liquor and bottle. 


R. BENTHAM SIMONS 


Mrs. William Huger’s Orange Cordial 


50 oranges 4 pounds sugar 
1 gallon whiskey 


Peel oranges very thin. Put peels in the gallon of whiskey and 
let them soak for 6 weeks. Pour off whiskey and then make a syrup 
of 4 pounds of sugar with just enough water to keep sugar from burn- 
ing. While hot, add to whiskey and stir. 


Mrs. Witt1aM S. PorHam (Louisa Stoney ) 


15 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cotton Hall Plantation Egenog 


5 dozen eggs 1 pint coffee cream 
4 cups granulated sugar 1% quarts rye whiskey 
114 quarts whipping cream 1 pint rum 


¥% teaspoon salt 
Beat egg yolks with sugar; add liquor, then whites of eggs 
beaten very stiff, and salt. Whip cream and add last. 90-100 sery- 
ings. 
$ Miss May Martin 
Charleston Eggnog 
1 pint rye whiskey 10 egg whites 
1 quart heavy cream 10 egg yolks 
34 cup granulated sugar 


Cream sugar and egg yolks thoroughly. Add whiskey slowly, 
stirring constantly, the cream (unwhipped), then the stiffly beaten 
egg whites. 20-25 servings. 

Mrs. GAMMELL Wanrinc (Annie Gammell) 


Simple Eggnog 


1 fresh country egg 1 tablespoon good whiskey 
Sugar to taste or brandy 
1 cup rich milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Pinch of salt 
Separate the egg, beating both the yolk and white. Add the 
sugar and salt to the yolk, then the whiskey or brandy, milk and 
vanilla. Lastly add the white of the egg. Mix and strain into a 
tall glass and serve cold. Grate a touch of nutmeg on top. 
Mrs. Aucustine T. S. Srongy (Louisa Jenkins ) 


Mrs. A. H. Mazyck’s Ratifid (c. 1830) 
Take 1 gallon best brandy, 1 quart madeira wine, 1 quart mus- 
cat wine, 1 pint orange-flower water, 3 pounds loaf sugar, 1 pint 


rose water, 1000 peach kernels. Put in a crock and keep in the sun 
for 4 or 5 weeks. 


Mrs. Rozert L. Kerr (Louise Mazyck Frierson) 


16 


CHARLESTON RECEIP’1S 


Rice Wine 


1 box seeded raisins 1 orange, sliced 
14 pounds of raw rice 1 yeast cake 


2% pounds granulated sugar 1 gallon tepid water 


Put in stone crock and cover three weeks to one month, de- 
pending on temperature. Stir with wooden spoon daily for a week, 
every other day the second week, then not at all. Strain. Next 
day, filter. Set aside six months to a year. 

FREDERICK A. TRAUT 


Blackberry Wine 


7 quarts blackberries 1 egg white 
3% quarts water 7 pounds sugar 
2 quarts water 


To mashed blackberries, add 314 quarts water and let stand for 
24 hours, then strain through thin cloth. Beat egg white, add sugar 
and 2 quarts water. Boil 5 minutes. Skim. When syrup is cool, 
add to blackberry juice. Stir well and place in jar. Skim each 
morning for 10 days, followed by a good stir each time; then put in 
demi-john. (Do not cork.) Cover with cloth and leave until it 
ceases to ferment. Siphon off and bottle. 

Mrs. WiLL1AM B. GapspENn (Ruth Walker) 


Mrs. L. J. Walker’s Scuppernong Wine 


8 quarts grapes 2 quarts boiling water 
3 pounds sugar 


Mash the grapes. Pour on the boiling water. Let stand 86 
hours. Strain and add sugar. Bottle and let stand uncorked until 


all fermentation is over, keeping bottles full. 
Miss MARGARET B. WALKER 


17 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Elderberry Flower Wine 


1 quart flowers 3 gallons boiling water 
9 pounds sugar 3 pounds raisins 
2 yeast cakes 2 teaspoons lemon juice 


Cut blossoms from stems with scissors leaving as little stem as 
possible. Put blossoms in jar, cover with boiling water and sugar 
which have been boiled togethér. When cool, add yeast and lemon 
juice. After 9 days, strain through double cheese cloth then put in 
keg; add raisins. SHAKE, SHAKE, SHAKE for several days, then 
put in a firm spot where it will not be disturbed until December. 
Bottle then. 

Mrs. Witi1aM B. Gapspen (Ruth Walker) 


Southern Spiced Tea 


8 cups boiling water Juice of 6 oranges 
5 tablespoons tea leaves 2 cups of sugar 
Juice of 1 lemon 8 cups of water 


1 teaspoon whole cloves 


Add the boiling water to the tea leaves, let stand 5 minutes and 
strain. Make a syrup by boiling the sugar, cloves, and water to- 
gether; add this and the fruit juice to the tea. (About 18 cups). 


Mrs. S. Epwarp Izarp, Jr. (Anne Kirk) 


Coffee Punch 


1 gallon strong coffee 2 quarts vanilla ice cream 
1 quart cream 5 teaspoons vanilla 
3 tablespoons sugar 


Chill coffee. Whip cream; add sugar and vanilla. Place ice 
cream and whipped cream in punch bowl and pour coffee over it. 
Mix well before serving. (If block ice cream is used, slice it into 
thin slices before placing in the punch bowl.) 50-60 servings. 


Mrs. Louis Y. Dawson, Jr. (Virginia Walker) 
18 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Fruit Punch 
6 oranges 1 large bottle maraschino 
6 lemons cherries 
2 quarts tea or grape juice 2 cups sugar 
1 qt. can pineapple juice 4 quarts ginger ale 
or grated pineapple Large lump of ice 


Squeeze oranges and lemons; cover skins with boiling water and 
let stand until cool. Strain. Use this water with sugar to make 


syrup; add tea and fruit. Add ginger ale just before serving. 70-80 
cups. 


Mrs. Louis T. Parker (Josephine Walker) 


Fruit Punch with Sherbet 


1 pint fresh orange juice 2 cups fresh lime juice 
| pint canned pineapple 2 quarts ginger ale 
juice 1 quart orange ice 


Mix fruit juices, pour over a block of ice and add a quart of 
orange ice. When ready to serve, add the ginger ale. Garnish with 
eck mint and slices of orange. 40-45 servings. 


Mrs. T. Lapson Wess, Jr. (Ann Moore) 


Combination Punch 


] quart can pineapple 1 quart can orange juice 
juice 1 quart apple juice 
2 quarts ginger ale 


Mix the juices and let stand an hour or two to blend the flavors. 
Pour in ginger ale and serve over ice. This is a delicious and re- 
freshing summer drink. 50-60 servings. 


Mrs. Matcotm L. McCrar (Ena Mae Black) 
19 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Blackberry Acid 


1 gallon blackberries 1 oz. tartaric acid 
(unwashed ) Sugar 


Put berries in stone jar, cover with water and add acid. Let 
stand for 24 hours, then strain. To each pint of liquid add a pound 
of sugar; boil 20 minutes. Bottle hot, and keep in a dry, cool place. 
Serve ice cold, diluted with water or else over crushed ice. 

Mrs. AucustTinE T. S. Stoney (Louisa Jenkins) 


Strawberry Shrub 


12 pounds fruit 5 ounces tartaric acid 
2 quarts water 114 pounds powdered sugar 


to each pint of juice 


Acidulate water with tartaric acid; place fruit in jar, cover with 
the acidulated water and let remain 48 hours. Strain without bruis- 
ing fruit. Measure juice and add sugar proportionately. Stir to 
dissolve sugar and leave a few days. Bottle and cork lightly. If 
slight fermentation takes place, leave cork out a few days. Process 
all cold. Stand bottles erect. 

Mrs. NATHANIEL I. Bax, Jr., (Anne Barnwell) 


Cassina Tea 


This is one of the most delicious native drinks and compares 
favorably with most imported teas if brewed properly. 


In the spring of the year, strip the young green leaves from the 
Cassina or Christmas Berry Bush. Toast them in a hot oven, turning 
them constantly with a fork until they are brown and crisp enough 
to crumble in the hand. Put them immediately into cans, covering 


tightly. 


To make the tea, pour boiling water over the leaves in the morn- 
ing and let them steep all day long. Serve hot or iced in the evening. 


Maria Green (from the Belleview-Bermuda Plantation) 


20 


CANAPES 


“Young married ’ooman een dis day she nebbuh sattify wid ole 
time dish; dey allways want fuh mek some kine ob new mixture.” 


The guests arrive at cocktail time. 

On tempting trays, my board displays 
Delectable varieties 

Of canapés. I yearn for praise 

But none comes forth. My busy guests 
They talk and laugh and gaily quaff 
And stretch unseeing hands to take 

My handicraft as though ’twere chaff! 


Benne (Sesame) Seed “Cocktailers” 


This is the original benne seed biscuit of which the New York 
Times says, “A cocktail biscuit that should revolutionize cocktail 
parties.” 


2 cups flour (unsifted) 34 cup shortening or oleo 

1 teaspoon salt Ice water (14 cup, approx.) 

Dash of cayenne pepper 1 cup roasted benne seed 
Additional salt 


Mix dry ingredients; cut in shortening; add enough ice water to 
make a dough the consistency of pie crust, add seed. Roll thin, cut 
into small round wafers. Place in biscuit pan and cook slowly in 
oven (about 300°) for 15 or 20 minutes. Before removing from 
pan and while hot, sprinkle with salt. These may be kept in a 
covered tin or cracker jar, and before serving, run into a slow oven 
to crisp. Makes several dozen. 

W. Lucas SrmMons 


Benne Seed Canapé 


Squares of melba toast Benne seed 
Butter Salt 


Butter toast generously. Sprinkle benne seed to cover. Sprinkle 
with salt to taste. Heat in oven until seeds are brown. 
Mrs. Davip MayBANK (Marion Taber) 


21 


cd 
U 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Shrimp Paste 


1 plate or 1% pounds %4 to % teaspoon dry 
shrimp mustard 

% pound butter Salt and black pepper 

Mace 10 drops onion juice 


1 tablespoon sherry wine 


Boil shrimp in salted water, peel and pound in mortar or run 
through fine meat grinder. Mix thoroughly with butter and add rest ~ 
of ingredients. Let chill in refrigerator until ready to serve. 

Mrs. Lawrence Lucas (Nell Hall) 


Shrimp Mold or Paste 


2 pounds shrimp 3 tablespoons mayonnaise 

% pound butter 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

¥%4 teaspoon lemon juice sauce 

Mace Few drops red pepper sauce 


Salt and black pepper 

Put shrimp through meat grinder twice. Then rub butter and 
shrimp well together and add enough mayonnaise to soften slightly. 
Season well with ground mace, lemon juice, salt, pepper and sauces 
to taste. Chill mixture and serve with crackers or thin, crisp toast. 
Mayonnaise may be omitted and celery seed used instead of mace. 
This makes a delicious dish served with hominy for breakfast. 

Mrs. C. Stuarr Dawson (May Hutson) 


Shrimp and Curry Mold 


4 pounds shrimp 2 teaspoons curry powder 
3 slices lemon 1% cups mayonnaise 

2 bay leaves Juice of 2 lemons 

1 onion (chopped) 2 onions (grated) 

1 teaspoon salt Salt and pepper 


Grind shrimp which have been cooked with 8 slices of lemon, 
bay leaves, 1 chopped onion and teaspoon of salt. Add curry powder, 
mayonnaise, grated onion and juice of lemons, salt and pepper to 
taste. Mix well. Cut a square of cheesecloth that will overlap mold, 


22 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


wet it and lay it loosely in mold. Pack shrimp in this, and place in 
ice box several hours before serving. Unmold and serve on bed of 
lettuce with crackers or melba toast. 

Mrs. MicuaEL Groves (Margaret Trouche) 


Shrimp Remoulade 


3 cups or 2 pounds shrimp 2 tablespoons chopped onion 
(boiled and picked) 5 tablespoons chopped 

1 cup olive oil parsley 
(or salad oil) 34 cup creole mustard, or 

l% cup tarragon vinegar mustard and horseradish 

14% cups chopped celery 2% teaspoons salt 

24% teaspoons chopped % teaspoon black pepper 
green pepper % cup paprika 


Mix all ingredients and let marinate in refrigerator for twenty- 
four hours, stirring often. Use as salad, or on toast or crackers. 
Mrs. C. Norwoop Hast (Sara Simons) 


Spiced Pickled Shrimp 


2 pounds shrimp 1% teaspoon dry mustard 
Bay leaves 1 teaspoon sugar 

6 small white onions 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
1 cup olive oil sauce 

% cup tarragon vinegar Cayenne 

2 teaspoons salt Handful of pickling spices 


In a crock, put a layer of boiled shrimp, a layer of bay leaves 
(about 5 to a layer) and a layer of very thin Fie onions. Alter- 
nate until all shrimp are used. Make a French dressing of the 
other ingredients and pour over shrimp, ete. Cover and put in 
refrigerator for 24 hours, stirring occasionally. Serve with tooth- 
picks in a bowl over ice for a cocktail party or as a salad with 
lettuce. 

Mrs. Jack Maypank (Lavinia Huguenin) 


23 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cheese or Paté in Aspic 


2 cans consommé 6 tablespoons cold water 
2 envelopes gelatine 2 tablespoons sherry 


Heat consommé and add gelatine, which has been dissolved in 
cold water. Add sherry and set aside to cool. Pour consommé mix- 
ture about an inch deep in a lightly greased, round, oblong or melon 
mold. Put in ice box to congeal. When set, put either cheese or 
liverwurst mixture in center of mold and cover top and sides with 
the remaining liquid. Chill. Unmold and serve with crackers or 
melba toast. 


CHEESE CENTER 


3 (3 ounce) packages cream 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
cheese ¥% teaspoon hot sauce 
Y% cup Roquefort cheese 2 tablespoons sherry, or 
brandy or chives 


LIVERWURST CENTER 


1 pound liverwurst 2 (3 oz.) pkgs. cream 
2 tablespoons Worcester- cheese 
shire 2 tablespoons whiskey 


1 small onion, grated 
Mrs. THomas A. Hucuenrn (Mary Vereen) 


Cream Cheese Spread 


2 (8 ounce) packages 2 teaspoons Worcestershire 
cream cheese % pint mayonnaise 

2 tablespoons milk Fine minced onion 
or cream Dash of hot sauce 


Blend cheese and mayonnaise well. Thin with milk or cream 
until very soft. Season to taste. Put in bowl in refrigerator to chill 
and serve on dish surrounded with potato chips. Serves fifteen. 

Mrs. Stuart Dawson (May Hutson) 


24 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Brandied Cheese Balls 


1 pound sharp cheese 2 dashes bitters 

3 tablespoons mayonnaise Salt to taste 

2 ounces good brandy Red pepper—dash or two 
or bourbon 


Let the cheese stand at room temperature for several hours, 
then put through meat grinder. Cream this thoroughly with other 
ingredients. Chill before rolling into small balls. Touch on one 
side with paprika and top with a sprig of green. Stores in ice box 
until ready to use. 

Mrs. KATHERINE HERMAN (Katherine Sheridan) 


Cheese Balls 


1 cup grated sharp cheese % teaspoon Worcestershire 

Y% cup fine dry 1 egg yolk (slightly beaten) 
bread crumbs 1 egg white 

Y% teaspoon salt (stiffly beaten) 

4 teaspoon paprika Cayenne pepper 


Combine cheese with bread crumbs and seasonings. Blend 
thoroughly. Add egg yolk and mix well. Fold in egg white. Shape 
into small balls about 34 of an inch in diameter and roll in more 
bread crumbs. Fry in deep hot fat until golden brown. Drain on 
soft paper. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Haron Pertir (Corinne Neely) 


Chipped Beef and Cream Cheese Spread 


1 jar chipped beef Y% cup cream 
2 (3 ounce) packages Onion juice 


cream cheese 


Fry beef in butter until crisp. Allow to cool and crumble. 
Mash cheese, and thin with cream. Season to taste with onion juice 
and add beef. Serve with potato chips, crackers or thin toast. 
Serves 12. 

Mrs. M. B. ALEXANDER (Ferdinand Williams) 


25 


& 
WJ 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cheese Roll 


Y% pound sharp cheese Worcestershire sauce 
6 packages (small) Garlic 
cream cheese Grated onion 


Chopped nuts 


Grate the American cheese and combine with softened cream 
cheese, preferably in electric mixer. If too stiff to blend well, add a 
little cream or milk. Add grated onion and Worcestershire sauce, 
about two teaspoons of each, and a little very finely minced garlic. 
Mix well and let stand, covered, in the ice box for several hours. 
Shape into a ball and roll in chopped pecans. Chill again and serve 
with crisp crackers. 

Mrs. PrioLeau Batt (Teresa Daniel) 


Cheese Straws 


1 pound sharp cheese 14 pound butter, creamed 
134 cups plain flour 4 teaspoon salt 
4, teaspoon red pepper 


Run cheese through meat chopper. Mix all ingredients 
thoroughly and put in cookie press or roll thin and cut in narrow 
strips about four inches long. Bake in oven at 350° for twenty-five 
minutes or until light brown. Makes about 100. 

Mrs. Henry ELLerse (Margaret Lucas) 


Ice Box Cheese Wafers 


Yz pound grated sharp 1% cups sifted flour 
cheese Heavy pinch cayenne pepper 
% pound butter, creamed ¥% teaspoon salt 


Cream together cheese, butter, salt and pepper—add flour. 
Make into roll. Wrap in waxed paper and put in ice box. Will keep 
amonth. When needed, slice into thin wafers and bake in moderate 
oven. A pecan half, baked on each wafer, is decorative. 6-8 dozen. 

Mrs. W. H. BarnweE.t (Mary Royall) 


26 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Celery Rings 


1 stalk celery 3 tablespoons tomato paste 
3 tablespoons butter Salt and pepper 
1 (3 ounce) package 

cream cheese 


Cream butter, add cheese and tomato paste and season to taste 
with salt and red pepper. Stuff all pieces of celery with mixture. 
First put celery hearts together, then place other pieces of celery 
around and make the stalk to original shape. Wrap in wax paper 
and chill. Slice, making rings. 

Mrs. Louis Y, Dawson, Jr. (Virginia Walker) 


lige Balls 


4 eggs Worcestershire sauce 
Y% pound butter Celery seed 
Salt and red pepper Bread crumbs 


Cream hard boiled eggs with butter. Season to taste with red 
pepper, Worcestershire sauce and celery seed. Make into balls, put 
in ice box to set, then roll in rich bread crumbs that have been 
browned in oven. Equal parts of mashed fish and a few pinches of 
chopped parsley may be added to creamed eggs and rolled in bread 
crumbs. Makes 16-18 balls. 

Mrs. Cuar_es Warinc (Margaret Simonds) 


_A South Sea Spread 


2 ripe avocados 1 teaspoon salt 
3 teaspoons of lemon juice 2 tablespoons of onion juice 


Mash avocados with lemon juice; add other ingredients. This 
is an excellent spread for large potato chips. 
Mrs. OwEN GEER (Louisa Farrow) 


27 


e 
i) 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Anchovy Puffs 


Y% cup butter 1 cup flour 
1 (3 ounce) package 1 tube anchovy paste 
cream cheese ¥% cup pecans (chopped) 


Blend butter and cheese, add flour. Chill and roll very thin 
and cut with small biscuit cutter. Spread each round with anchovy 
paste and a few pieces of chopped pecans. Fold over, making 
a puff. Bake in hot oven (400°) for about ten minutes. Serve hot. 
Makes about 45. 

Mrs. Louis Y. Dawson, Jr. (Virginia Walker) 


Chicken and Almond Sandwich Spread 


1 cup chopped chicken 8 tablespoons cream 
1 cup chopped almonds Salt and pepper to taste 


Mix chopped chicken with finely chopped almonds and cream. 


Season to taste and make into sandwiches. 
Mrs. Joun BENNETT (Susan Smythe) 


Chicken Liver Spread 


¥% pound chicken livers Salt and pepper 
% cup fresh mushrooms Onion and lemon juice 
1 tablespoon butter Monosodium glutomate 


Boil livers until soft. Drain and mash. Sauté mushrooms in 
butter for about 4 minutes. Chop fine and add to livers. Add salt, 
pepper, monosodium glutomate and juices to taste. Spread on ice 
box rye. 

Mrs. KATHERINE HERMAN (Katherine Sheridan ) 


28 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Crab Meat Canapé 


1 pound crab meat 114 teaspoons mace 
(2 cups) 1 teaspoon black pepper 

2 cups finely chopped celery 1 tablespoon grated onion 
(washed and dried ) and juice 

2 hard boiled eggs, 34 cup mayonnaise 
finely chopped Salt to taste 


Mound on small rounds of white bread and top with a parsley 
leaf, or pile in tiny paté shells. This may be varied by using rounds 
of toast and sprinkling top with grated American cheese and running 
in oven for a few minutes. 

Mrs. KATHERINE HERMAN (Katherine Sheridan) 


Sardine Canapé 


2 small cans of sardines Y% teaspoon Worcestershire 
(skin and bone) 1% teaspoon monosodium 

3 tablespoons lemon juice glutomate 

1 tablespoon tarragon 2 tablespoons melted butter 
vinegar Salt and pepper to taste 


Spread on buttered and toasted fingers of bread. Garnish with 
a border of finely chopped egg whites and top with olive rings. 
Serves 15. 
Mrs. KATHERINE HERMAN (Katherine Sheridan) 


Clam Canapé 


2 small cans minced clams Hot sauce, lemon juice, and 
2 (8 ounce) packages salt to taste 
cream cheese 


Drain clams. Mix all ingredients. Heat in double boiler or 
chafing dish. Serve with melba toast or crackers. 
Mrs. THomas A. HucuENIN (Mary Vereen) 


29 


: CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Ham and Chutney Canapé 


1 cup Virginia ham Y% cup heavy cream 
(ground ) Parmesan cheese 


1 cup chutney 


Mix ham and chutney thoroughly. Moisten with cream and 
spread heavily on rounds of toast, about % inch thick. Sprinkle 
with grated cheese and heat in moderate oven for a few minutes. 


Yield: 18. 
Miss I. L. DAwson 


Bacon and Cheese Canapé 


1 egg, beaten 10 dashes hot sauce 

2 cups grated sharp cheese 2 teaspoons Worcestershire 
2 loaves bread sauce 

¥Y pound bacon 1 teaspoon salt 


Mix egg, grated cheese and seasonings thoroughly. Cut crust 
from bread and place 1 teaspoon of mixture on each one-inch piece 
of bread. Cover with pieces of bacon and bake in oven until bacon 


is done. Serves 80. 
Mrs. SAMUEL LapHAM (Lydia Thomas) 


Cocktail Sauce For Shrimp 
Crab or Raw Vegetables 


1 cup mayonnaise ¥% teaspoon Worcestershire 
1 teaspoon lemon juice sauce 
1 teaspoon curry powder Y2 teaspoon red pepper 
Y% teaspoon finely minced sauce 
onion % cup chili sauce 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Mix well and keep in ice box until ready to serve. 
Mrs. Horace L. Jones (Louise Dixon) 


30 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


OTe ae oe 


Suggestions for Mixtures to 
be used in Making Canapés 


Chopped cooked lobster, cucumber, hard-cooked eggs and al. 
monds mixed with mayonnaise. 


Whole broiled mushroom topped with slice of stuffed olive, 
served. hot. 


Deviled ham mixed with chopped hard-cooked egg and horse- 
radish. 


Highly seasoned cheese topped with pecan, served hot. 


Sliced tomato topped with thin slice of smoked cheese melted 
under flame and served hot. 


Slice of hard-cooked egg with anchovy center. 
Artichoke hearts marinated in tart French dressing. 
Peanut butter covered with chutney. 


A layer of anchovy paste covered with a paste of shredded crab 
meat, cream cheese and butter, seasoned with salt and pepper. 


Shredded tuna fish mixed with lemon juice and mayonnaise. 


Aspic jelly with anchovies or sardines included, on toasted bits 


of rye bread. 
Large olives filled with cheese, wrapped in bacon; broiled. 


Celery stuffed with cream cheese, mayonnaise and Roquefort 


cheese and topped with paprika. 
Chicken liver balls rolled in minced chipped beef. 


Anchovies on small triangles of toast spread with lemon butter. 


. Oysters or chicken livers wrapped in bacon; broiled. 


Apples cut finger size, wrapped with chicken livers; broiled. 


Pastry turnovers with anchovy paste, meat spreads, mincemeat, 
cheese. 


31 


St. Philip’s Church 1835 


32 


SOUPS 


“.... Crab got tuh walk een duh pot demself or dey ain’ wut.” 


She-Crab Soup 
A soup to remember! 
The feminine gender 
Of crabs is expedient— 
The secret ingredient. 
The flavor essential 
Makes men reverential 
Who taste this collation 
And cry acclamation. 


She-Crab Soup 


“She-crab” is much more of a delicacy than “he-crab,” as the 
eggs add a special flavor to the soup. The street vendors make a 
point of calling “she-crab” loudly and of charging extra for them. 


1 tablespoon butter ¥% teaspoon Worcestershire 
1 quart milk 1 teaspoon flour 

\% pint cream (whipped) 2 cups white crab meat 
Few drops onion juice and crab eggs 

Y% teaspoon mace Y% teaspoon salt 

Y% teaspoon pepper 4 tablespoons dry sherry 


Melt butter in top of double boiler and blend with flour until 
smooth. Add the milk gradually, stirring constantly. To this add 
crab meat and eggs and all seasonings except sherry. Cook slowly 
over hot water for 20 minutes. To serve, place one tablespoon of 
warmed sherry in individual soup bowls, then add soup and top with 
whipped cream. Sprinkle with paprika or finely chopped parsley. 
Secret: if unable to obtain “she-crabs,” crumble yolk of hard boiled 
eggs in bottom of soup plates. Serves 4-6. 


Mrs. Henry F. Cuurcu (Rea Bryant) 
33 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Carolina or She-Crab Soup 


1 pound white crab meat 2 teaspoons sherry 

1 pint milk 4 blades whole mace 
1 pint cream 2 pieces lemon peel 

Y% stick of butter 1% cup cracker crumbs 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Put milk in top of double-boiler with mace and lemon peel and 
allow to simmer for a few minutes. Then add crab, butter and 
cream and cook for 15 minutes. Thicken with cracker crumbs; 
season with salt and pepper and allow to stand on back of stove 
for a few minutes to bring out the flavor. Just before serving, add 
sherry. This same soup can be made with shrimp, which should 
be ground. Serves 6. 

Mrs. C. Stuart Dawson (May E. Hutson) 


Shrimp Soup 


2 plates (214 pounds) 4 cups milk 

cooked shrimp Salt and pepper to taste 
4 tablespoons butter 1 pint cream 
Sherry to taste 2 tablespoons flour 


Grind shrimp and add to milk. Place in top of double-boiler 
and cook over hot water for 14 hour. Remove from fire and add 
cream, butter, flour, salt and pepper which have been rubbed to a 
smooth paste. Sherry added just before serving improves the flavor. 
Serves 8. 

Mrs. Lawrence Lucas (Nell Hall) 


Oyster Stew 


1 quart milk Ya teaspoon pepper 

1 cup cream 8 saltines, crumbled 

1 quart oysters 1 cup steamed, diced celery 
1 tablespoon butter A little whole mace, if 

14 teaspoons salt desired 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Heat milk, cream, butter, saltine crumbs, soft celery and season- 
ings in top of double-boiler. Add oysters and cook until they curl 
on the edges. Serves 6. 


Mrs. WittiaM H. BarnweE i (Mary Royall) 


Brown Oyster Stew with Benne Seed 


4 slices bacon 2 cups oysters 
1 large onion, sliced 2 tablespoons parched 
2 tablespoons flour benne 


1% cups oyster liquor 


Fry the bacon and onion until brown and remove from pan. 
Into the hot grease shake the flour and stir vigorously until flour is 
brown. Remove from stove and add oyster liquor or water slowly 
until the mixture is smooth. Return to fire and stir until slightly 
thickened. Pound the benne seed, using pestle and mortar, if 
available, and add to sauce. Lastly, add the oysters and cook until 
the edges curl. Serve immediately on rice or hominy. Serves 6. 


Mrs. AucusTINE T. S. Stoney (Louisa Jenkins) 


Oyster Bisque 


2 quarts oysters 1% cups oyster liquor 
1 cup thinly sliced onions Y% cup butter 
2 small cloves garlic 2% cups light cream 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Drain the oysters; cook till the edges curl. Chop fine and put 
through a sieve. Add oyster liquor to the purée. Fry onions and 
garlic (minced fine) in butter until transparent but not brown. Add 
the cream, oyster purée and liquor. Heat together with seasoning, 
but do not boil. Serves 14. 


Mrs. Francis J. Pewzer, Jr. (Mary Branch Chisolm) 
35 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Clam Bisque 


1 pint clams Sprig of parsley 
1 quart soup stock 1 bay leaf 
(veal or chicken) 1 cup cream 
Y% cup uncooked rice Salt and pepper to taste 


Boil clams in their own liquor until they are done. Chop them 
very fine and return to liquor. Add soup stock, rice, parsley and bay 
leaf. Boil until the rice is tender. Strain the soup, mashing as 
much of the rice and clams through the strainer as possible. Strain 
again. To serve, heat the soup, add the cream and seasoning and 
beat with an egg whip. Serves 6-8. 


Mrs. JOHN Simonps (Frances Rees) 


Clam Chowder 


8 dozen clams in the shell 4 cups milk 

3 cups of clam broth Salt and pepper to taste 
4 slices bacon 2 tablespoons flour 

4 tablespoons butter 2 medium onions 


2% cups diced raw potatoes 


Scrub clams clean with hard brush. Open with clam knife, 
being careful not to lose any of the liquor in the shell. Strain liquor 
through two thicknesses of cheese cloth. Grind clams. Chip bacon 
and onions and fry until brown. Put ground clams, potatoes, bacon 
and onions in kettle and cover with just enough water to cook 
potatoes and clams. When done, add clam liquor, milk and sea- 
sonings. If a thick chowder is desired, make a paste of melted 
butter and flour and thicken to desired consistency. Add butter, 
salt and pepper. Serves 8-10. 


Mrs. Cariton G. Davies (Harriet Goodacre ) 


36 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Creamy Fish Chowder 


6 pounds of fish 3 large Irish potatoes 
1 bay leaf 2 cups cream 
1 stalk celery (with tops) Salt to taste 
3 cups milk 3 onions 
Fat from 2-inch square of 
salt pork 


Select whiting, flounder or blackfish. The last is my choice. 
Buy almost 1 pound of fish per person if the chowder is to be the 
main dish and served in large bowls. Cut all amounts in half for 
ordinary portions. 

Clean and scale fish, leaving on heads, tails and fins. Wash 
thoroughly and place in cold water to cover. Chop celery and 
onions very fine. Add these, bay leaf and salt to fish. Bring to a 
boil and simmer for 20 minutes. Remove from fire; when cool, 
bone and skin the fish. Strain broth. To broth, add tried out fat 
from diced salt pork, and potatoes, diced very small. Boil until 
potatoes are done. Add fish, cream and milk. Simmer for 5 minutes 
and serve with crackers. Serves 8-10. 

Mrs. JoHN McGowan (Elizabeth Calvin) 


Sea-Food Gumbo 


\% pound butter 2 pounds fresh raw shrimp 
2 quarts water Salt and pepper to taste 

2 pounds fresh okra 5 fresh tomatoes 

1 pint raw oysters 1 pound fresh crab meat 
4 tablespoons flour 2 pounds fresh fish 


Melt butter and add flour. Make a smooth paste and stir con- 
stantly over fire until a rich brown, being careful not to burn. Add 
water, tomatoes and okra (chopped fine). Cook slowly for one 
hour. Add crab meat, oysters, shrimp (picked and de-veined) and 
fish (minus bones and skin). Cook 15 minutes; add seasonings. 
Soup should be thick. Add steamed rice to each serving. Serves 8. 


Mrs. Carton G. Davies (Harriet Goodacre) 


37 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


New Cut Plantation Gumbo 


¥, pound raw ham 1 large bell pepper 

¥Y pound raw veal 1 clove garlic 

1 pound raw shrimp 2 bay leaves 

1 pound fresh crab meat Few sprigs of parsley 
(dark) A little thyme 

3 medium onions 2 tablespoons filé powder 

2 large cans tomatoes 3 quarts water 

¥, pound fresh okra Salt and pepper to taste 


Cut ham, veal, okra, onion, bell pepper and parsley into small 
pieces and fry in bacon drippings. When brown, add boiling water, 
tomatoes, thyme, garlic, (cut fine) bay leaves, salt and pepper. 
Cook 80 minutes, then add shrimp and crab and cook 30 minutes 
longer. Add filé powder, stirring well. This is better made the ey 
before and re-heated to allow the gumbo to become well-seasoned. 
Serve with steamed rice. Serves 16. 

Mrs. Rosert GAMBLE (Mildred Franklin) 


Gumbo with Sassafras 


1 four-pound hen or capon 2 large onions 

2 tablespoons butter 3 dozen oysters 

Y% pound lean ham 1 tablespoon filé 

2 teaspoons creole (ground sassafras 
herb blend leaves ) 

\% pod red pepper 1 teaspoon salt 
(remove seeds) 1 quart plain water and 

Y% teaspoon garlic salt liquor from oysters 


Chop ham fine. Cut chicken fine. Put butter, ham and chicken 
in soup kettle, cover tightly and fry 10 minutes. Add onions, salt, 
garlic salt, red pepper, herb blend, and stir until brown; add water 
slowly; add oyster liquor. Cook 1%4 hours or until meat is tender. 
When ready to serve, and still boiling, add oysters and cook 8 
minutes. Mix in filé just before serving. A tablespoon of steamed 
hot rice may be served in each soup plate. Serves 8-10. 

Mrs. Simons VANDER Horst Waninc (Louisa Johnson) 


88 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cooter Soup 


1 large or 2 small Red pepper to taste 
“yellow belly” cooters 3 tablespoons dry sherry 
(preferably female) 4 quarts of water 

1 large onion 1 small Irish potato 

Salt to taste 12 whole cloves 

2 teaspoons allspice 2 tablespoons Worcestershire 


Flour to thicken 


Kill cooter by chopping off head. Let it stand inverted until 
thoroughly drained, then plunge into boiling water for five minutes. 
Crack the shell all around very carefully, so as not to cut the eggs 
which are lodged near surface. The edible parts are the front and 
hind quarters and a strip of white meat adhering to the back of the 
shell, the liver and the eggs. Remove all outer skin which peels very 
easily if water is hot enough. Wash thoroughly and allow to stand 
in cold water a short while, or place in refrigerator over night. 

Put cooter meat on to boil in water, and cook until meat drops 
from bones—about 2 hours. Remove all bones and skin and cut meat 
up with scissors. Return meat to stock, add spices and simmer. 

Brown flour in skillet, mix with 1 cup of stock to smooth paste and 
thicken soup. Twenty minutes before serving add cooter eggs. 
Add sherry and garnish with thin slices of lemon. Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. CLARENCE STEINHART (Kitty Ford) 


Brown Soup 


1 beef soup-shank Few whole spice 

2 quarts water Salt and pepper to taste 
2 tablespoons lard 2 hard boiled eggs, sliced 
1 large onion, chopped fine 1 lemon, sliced 

2 potatoes, diced small Sherry 


Brown meat, then chopped onions, in lard. To this add pota- 
toes, salt, pepper and spices. Cook slowly for several hours. Add 
sliced egg, or a lemon slice to each serving, or a bit a sherry, if 
desired. Serves 8. 

Mrs. I. G. Batt (Janie Johnson) 


39 


e 
U 


Mrs. Alston Pringle’s Mock Terrapin Soup 


Mrs. Alston Pringle’s reputation as a fine cook was so well- 
established that it is still spoken of almost reverentially. In fact, a 
colored cook who worked in her household once remarked, “When 
she puts in de buttah, ah turns ma back.” 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


3 pounds lean beef Y% teaspoon dry mustard 
1 pint milk 1% quarts water 

1 tablespoon flour Y% pound of butter 

Y% teaspoon mace Y% pint cream 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Boil meat and water until 1 quart of liquid remains. Add 1 pint 
of milk and 4% pound butter. Remove meat, allow to cool, grind 
and return to stock. Let it cook down a little more. Add flour 
dissolved in cream. Add seasonings. Serves 8. 

Mrs. JoHN Simonps (Frances Rees) 


Mrs. Alston Pringle’s Calf’s Head Soup 


1 calf’s head 4 quarts water 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon red and 
1 teaspoon allspice black pepper 
1 rib celery 1 small onion 

1 tablespoon flour Few sprigs parsley 


Sherry to taste 


Remove brain from calf’s head, wash head thoroughly, and boil 
in four quarts of water until tender. Remove all bones, cut meat very 
fine, and return to stock. Add all seasonings and boil one hour. 
Thicken with browned flour and boil one-half hour longer. Add 
sherry just before serving. Serves 8-10. 

Mrs. C. O. SparkMAN (Mary Rhett Simonds) 


40 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. Alston Pringle’s White Soup 


1 five-pound fowl 5 quarts water 

8 blades mace 6 blanched almonds 
1 quart cream 8 slices bread 

1 pint milk 1 tablespoon flour 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Cut up the fowl, add mace and water. Boil until very tender. 
Remove meat and bones from stock. Cut meat very fine. Beat al- 
monds to a paste and mix with chicken. Break bread in small 
pieces and add to 1 quart of stock and 1 quart of cream. Add this 
to chicken and work into a paste, add more liquor if it needs thin- 
ning. Bring to a boil, thicken with flour, season and add milk. 
Serves 10-12. 

Mrs. C. O. SpaRKMAN (Mary Rhett Simonds) 


Mrs. Alston Pringle’s Onion Soup 

3 pounds lean beef 2 cups vermicelli 

1% quarts water 2 cups crisp, fried onions. 

Cover beef with water and cook until meat is very well done. 
Add vermicelli and let boil until it is tender; add onions. Stir 
swiftly until it thickens, then season to taste with salt and pepper. 
Serves 8. 

Mrs. JoHN Simonps (Frances Rees) 


Chicken Soup 


A 5-pound fowl, cut up 3 teaspoons salt 

4 quarts water 3 tablespoons flour 

1 stalk of celery 5 medium onions 
(tops also) 5 sprigs parsley 


] teaspoon pepper 


Chop onions, celery, parsley and add to chicken and water. 
Add salt and pepper as soon as boiling begins. Cook until meat 
falls from bones (at least 2 hours) then remove bones. Make a 
smooth paste of flour and 1 cup of broth and thicken soup. Steamed 
rice may be added if desired. Serves 8-10. 

Mrs. CaruTon G. Davies (Harriet Goodacre) 


41 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Charleston Okra Soup 


1 large beef bone Salt and pepper, bay leaf 
(plenty of meat) 3 quarts water 

2 medium onions (chopped) — 1 piece breakfast bacon 

3 pounds fresh okra, 8 large, fresh tomatoes, or 2 
chopped fine (No. 2% ) cans tomatoes 


Cook meat in water slowly for two hours. Add okra, bacon, 
and peeled tomatoes, bay leaf, onions, salt and pepper to taste; 
let cook another two hours; add more water, if needed. Hot rice 
and buttered cornsticks are a tasty accompaniment. Serves 8-10. 

Mrs. DanieL E. Hucer (Louise Chisolm) 


Turkey Stew 


1 turkey carcass with 1 large onion 
considerable meat Salt and pepper to taste 
2 tablespoons flour Sprig of thyme 


Break up turkey carcass, place in kettle with seasonings and 
just enough water to cover. Cook until meat falls off the bones. 
Remove all bones and cut meat up in very small pieces. Mix flour 
with % cup of the broth to make a smooth paste. Add to boiling 
soup; add cut-up meat and cook until a little thicker. Serves 6. 

Mrs. F. MrrcHeLt JoHNson (Margaret Silcox) 


Split Pea Soup 


1 meaty ham bone 1 package green or 
3 quarts water yellow split peas 
¥2 cup chopped celery 2 medium onions 


Salt and pepper to taste 
If you wish the soup to cook quickly, soak the peas in water 
overnight. Drain. Put peas and ham bone in water, add onions and 
celery. Bring to a boil and simmer slowly, stirring occasionally 
until peas have disintegrated and turned to mush. Add season- 
ings. Serves 8-10. 
Mrs. Writ1aM Dorrerer (Sue Bolt) 


49 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Black Bean Soup 


2 cups black beans 2 quarts water 

1 ham bone 2 tablespoons chopped onion 
2 ribs celery 2 teaspoons salt 

4 teaspoon pepper ¥4 teaspoon dry mustard 

4 tablespoons butter 14 tablespoons flour 

3 tablespoons sherry 1 lemon, thin-sliced 


Soak beans overnight. Drain. Add to water and ham bone. 
Cook onion in one-half the butter (2 tablespoons). Add onion and 
celery to beans and simmer three to four hours in covered kettle 
(until beans are soft). Put through fine strainer for a smooth soup. 
Re-heat to boiling, add salt, pepper, mustard and remaining butter, 
and flour. Add sherry when ready to serve and garnish with lemon. 
Serves 8-10. 

Mrs. Eric Brancut (Kay Dennison) 


Cream of Mushroom Soup 


¥, pound fresh mushrooms Y%4 teaspoon paprika 
4 cups water 4 tablespoons butter 
Y% small onion 4 tablespoons flour 
Sprinkle cayenne pepper 1 cup milk 


Y% cup cream 


(Save a few mushroom caps to add to soup). 

Cover mushroom caps and stems (which have been peeled and 
chopped) with water. Add sliced onion and salt and boil slowly for 
4 hour. Melt butter in top of double-boiler and add remainder of 
mushroom caps, chopped. Cook 3 minutes, add flour and milk to 
make a smooth, thick sauce. Add mushroom liquor and mushrooms 
rubbed through a sieve. Just before serving add cayenne pepper, 
paprika and cream. Serves 6. 

Mrs. C. O. SPARKMAN (Mary Rhett Simonds) 


43 


e 
U 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cream of Spinach Soup 


2 quarts fresh spinach or Y teaspoon salt 
1 package frozen spinach = 1_ quart milk 
2 tablespoons butter ¥% cup chopped onion 
2 tablespoons flour Cayenne pepper to taste 


Blend melted butter and flour, add salt and cook 5 minutes. 
Add the milk slowly. Cook fresh or frozen spinach your favorite 
way. Mash spinach through a wire strainer with onion. Add to 
milk, with seasoning. Serve hot with or without a topping of 
whipped cream and paprika. Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. LioneL Lecce (Dorothy H. Porcher) 


Cream of Cheese Soup 


1 quart milk 2 tablespoons flour 

1 slice carrot 2 heaping tablespoons 

1 slice onion grated cheese 

1 blade mace Yolks of 2 eggs 

2 tablespoons butter Salt and pepper to taste 


Boil carrot, onion, and mace in milk until carrot and onions are 
soft, being very careful not to burn. Remove carrot, onion and 
mace from milk. Place milk in top of double boiler, and thicken 
with butter and flour which have been combined to a smooth paste. 
Stir constantly until thickened. Add cheese and stir three minutes. 
Remove from fire, add beaten egg yolks, salt and pepper. This 
soup cannot be reheated, as it may crudle. (Veal stock may be 
used in place of milk.) Serves 6. 

Mrs. T. Lapson Wess, Jr. (Ann Moore) 


Seasoning for Soup 


2 ounces onions 1 bouquet of herbs 

5 ounces carrots (parsley may be sub- 
5 ounces leeks (stituted ) 

1 ounce celery Any herbs may be used 

2 quarts water except sage 


2 pounds beef soup-shank 


44 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Boil down to 3% pints. 
Mrs. W. Turner Locan, Sr. (Louise Lesesne) 


Iced Spinach Soup 


1% pounds fresh spinach 1 cup chicken stock 

or 1 package frozen 1 cup cream 

spinach Salt and cayenne pepper 
1 cup milk to taste 


Cook fresh or frozen spinach your favorite way. When cool, 
put through a fine meat grinder. Add milk, cream, and stock; 
season and chill thoroughly before serving. Serves 5-6. 

Mrs. EucENE JOHNSON, JR. (Mary Atmar Smith) 


Tradd Street Cucumber Soup 


2, cucumbers 1 quart milk 

Salted water 1 can consomme 

Y% pound butter Salt and pepper, to taste 
4 tablespoons flour Paprika or chives 


Peel and dice cucumbers. Boil until clear in sufficient salted 
water to cover, then drain. Melt butter and cook cucumbers in 
this for ten minutes. Add flour and stir well. Add milk slowly. 
Cook until fairly thick, then add consomme, salt and pepper. Serve 
hot with paprika or cold with chopped chives. Serves 6. 


Mrs. Martin Ropertson (Mary Martin) 


Cold Cucumber Soup 


2 medium-sized 1 pint milk 

Irish potatoes 4 pint cream 
2 medium-sized cucumbers Y% teaspoon onion juice 
1 cup chicken stock Salt and pepper to taste 


Boil potatoes in just enough water to cover. When done, mash 
through a strainer with the water in which they were cooked. Put 
cucumbers through a fine meat grinder, not losing any of the liquid. 
Add chicken stock, milk, cream, and seasonings. Chill thoroughly 
before serving. Serves 6. 


Mrs. Hucu Lane (Beverly Glover) 


45 


3 CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Créme Vichyssoise 


6 leeks (white part only) 2 quarts chicken stock 
2 medium onions 1 cup sweet cream 

\%4 pound butter Salt and white pepper 
34 pound white potatoes Chives 


Chop onions and leeks fine, cook them very slowly in 4 pound 
butter. Do not brown, just cook until soft, then add stock and 
potatoes peeled and cut in small pieces. Add salt and pepper to 
taste and cook until potatoes are done. Put through a very fine 
strainer. Add cream. Chill thoroughly. When serving, sprinkle 
finely chopped chives on top. Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. Louis DEB. McCrapy (Eleanor Laurens) 


Créme Vichyssoise with Curry 


Delicious for a “Three O'clock Dinner.” 


6 tablespoons butter 2 quarts chicken broth 

10 leeks (white portion Y teaspoon curry powder 
only ) 2 cups light cream 

1 pound potatoes 3 tablespoons chopped 
(finely sliced ) chives 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Melt butter and simmer cut-up leeks in covered pot for 10 
minutes. Add sliced potatoes and continue to simmer for 10 
minutes more, being careful not to brown the leeks and potatoes. 
Add chicken broth, salt and pepper and boil gently in covered pot 
for 45 minutes. Mash through a fine strainer, add curry and 1 cup 
of cream. Boil 5 minutes more, then set aside to chill. Before 
serving, stir in remaining cream and half of the chives. Garnish 
each serving with remaining chives and serve icy cold. For an 
interesting variation use sour cream for the second cup—the one 
stirred in before serving. Serves 8. 


Miss JOSEPHINE PINCKNEY 


46 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Chilled Shrimp Soup 


1% pounds | 1 tablespoon butter 
fresh raw shrimp 3 tablespoons sherry 
1 quart milk 1 teaspoon salt 


1 cup cream 


Heat milk in top of double-boiler, add butter and salt. Pick and 
de-vein raw shrimp and grind. Add shrimp to milk and continue to 
cook 20 minutes. Remove shrimp from milk, setting aside a small 
portion to sprinkle over each serving. Mash remainder of shrimp 
through a strainer and return to milk. Set aside to cool, add cream 
and sherry and allow to become icy cold. Top each serving with a 
sprinkling of ground shrimp and grated parsley and serve as cold as 
possible. Serves 6. 

Mrs. MarcueriteE S. VALK (Marguerite Sinkler ) 


Tomato-Cheese Ice 


2 tablespoons grated 1 teaspoon salt 

Roquefort cheese ¥ teaspoon pepper 

1 three-ounce package 2 tablespoons lemon juice 
cream cheese 2 cups tomato juice 

\%4 teaspoon grated onion 2 stiffly beaten egg whites 


1 teaspoon Worcestershire 


Cream together grated Roquefort cheese and cream cheese. Add 
onion, Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper and lemon juice. Add 
gradually tomato juice, blending smoothly. Pour into freezing tray 
and freeze until all but a portion of the center is frozen. Then re- 
move from tray, break up in a bowl and beat smooth with a chilled 
rotary beater. Quickly fold in beaten egg whites, return to freezing 
tray and serve in sherbet glasses when frozen. This is a delicious 
first course. Serves 6. 

Mrs. Wriut1am McG. Morrison (Caroline Sams) 


47 


SEAFOODS 


“‘F hab uh hebby pan full uh mullet, en’ ’e hab swimp en’ crab 
all two, en’ ’e hab hominy en’ ting.” 


“Lady, git yo dishpan— 
“Yuh come de swimp-man! f 
“Swimpee! Swimpee! Raw, raw, swi-i-mp! 


“Fi-ish! Fresh Fish! I got de porgy! 
“Oh, de porgy walk an’ de porgy talk, 
“De porgy eat wid de knife an’ fork! 
“Porgy! Porgy! Fresh fish!” 


Shrimp 


The very small shrimp caught in the creeks and inlets abounding 
the Carolina Low-Country are most delicious. They cannot be pur- 
chased from the markets but from the negro hucksters who cry their 
wares through the old city’s streets: “Swimpee, raw, raw swimp!” 
These shrimp give the following receipts that extra flavor and dis- 
tinction so much enjoyed. 


Most receipts call for cooked or boiled shrimp. To cook shrimp: 
Wash the shrimp thoroughly and boil 4 or 5 minutes in a covered 
pot, using just enough salted water to cover them. As soon as they 
cool, they are “picked” or peeled. Large shrimp are cooked longer; 
the black line removed and the shrimp cut into pieces. Black pepper, 
celery, onion, or paprika can be boiled with shrimp for added flavor. 
Beer is sometimes substituted for water in cooking shrimp. To pick 
a shrimp any local person will tell you to “pull, peel, pinch”—you pull 
as the heads, peel shell off the body, and pinch shrimp out of the 
tail. 


48 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Shrimp for Breakfast 


Shrimp prepared in various ways have long been a breakfast 
favorite in the coastal region, and they are always served with 
hominy. Many of the following receipts have been handed down 
for generations. The simplest and easiest way of serving breakfast 
shrimp is to sauté them in melted butter and serve hot. Use either 
cooked shrimp for this or shrimp that have been peeled raw. Slices 
of shrimp paste are a good breakfast accompaniment with hominy. 
(See receipt for shrimp paste under Canapés). 


Breakfast Shrimp 


1% cups small, peeled Salt and pepper to taste 
raw shrimp 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

2 tablespoons chopped onion sauce 

2 teaspoons chopped 1 tablespoon tomato catsup 
green pepper 1% tablespoons flour 

3 tablespoons bacon grease 1 cup water or more 


Fry onion and green pepper in bacon grease. When onion is 
golden, add shrimp; turn these several times with onion and pepper. 
Add enough water to make a sauce—about 1 cup. Do not cover 
shrimp with water or your sauce will be tasteless. Simmer 2 or 8 
minutes and thicken with flour and a little water made into a paste. 
Add seasoning, Worcestershire sauce and catsup. Cook slowly until 
sauce thickens. Serve with hominy. Serves 4. 


Mrs. Ben Scotr Wuatey (Emily Fishburne) 


Variation: A variation to the above receipt says that cooked shrimp 
may be flourcd and fried with onions browned in butter. Hot water 
is slowly added and shrimp allowed to simmer under cover for 
several minutes or until a thick gravy forms. Stir constantly. 


49 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Charleston Shrimp Pie 


2, pounds shrimp 3 tablespoons butter 

2 cups bread crumbs 1 tablespoon hot sauce 

2 cups tomato juice 2 tablespoons Worcestershire 
Y% teaspoon salt 1 cup tomato catsup 


Cook and peel shrimp. Mix all ingredients together and bake 
in casserole for 30 minutes at 850°. Serves 8. 
Mrs. Owen Geer (Louisa Farrow) 


Edisto Shrimp Pie 


2 cups peeled cooked shrimp 2 tablespoons sherry wine 


2 cups bread crumbs Salt and pepper to taste 
(about 3 large slices) 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

1 cup milk 2 tablespoons butter 

1 tablespoon chopped celery Pinch of nutmeg or mace, 
or parsley if desired 


Soak bread in milk, add shrimp, butter and seasonings; place in 
buttered baking dish and bake in moderate oven ( 375°) for 80 


minutes. Serves 6. 


Miss MARGARET READ 


Beaufort Stewed Shrimp 


1 pound or | plate raw 1 heaping tablespoon butter 
shrimp 2 tablespoons vinegar 
Y% cup water Salt and black pepper 


Boil shrimp in salted water until tender. When cool enough, 
peel shrimp and put in saucepan with water, pepper, salt and butter. 
Let simmer for a few minutes and then add vinegar. Continue to 
let them simmer for another five minutes or so longer. Serve either 
hot or cold for breakfast with hominy. Serves 4. 

Mrs. Stuarr Dawson (May Elliott Hutson) 


50 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


James Island Shrimp Pie 


This receipt came originally from Mrs. Robert Lebby, Sr. of 
James Island, about 1860. 


1 cup of raw rice 5 tablespoons tomato catsup 
2 cups water 2% tablespoons Worcester- 
1 teaspoon salt shire 

Y% cup butter Salt and pepper to taste 

2 eggs : 2 pounds shrimp 

Pinch of mace 1 cup milk (approximately ) 


Cook rice in salted water until very soft and stir butter into it. 
Combine all ingredients with cooked shrimp, adding enough milk to 
make mixture the consistency of thick custard. Put in buttered cas- 
serole and bake in moderate oven until brown on top (about 380 
minutes). Serves 8. 

Mrs. Joun T. Jenkins (Hess Lebby) 


Popham Shrimp Pie 


1 quart canned tomatoes 2 or 3 pounds shrimp 

Y4 pound shortening 6 strips bacon 

1 quart cooked rice 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
Y, pound onions Red pepper, salt, paprika, 


mace, to taste 


Fry the onions, grated fine, the tomatoes, the shrimp (which 
have been picked while raw) and all the seasoning in the shortening. 
Cook these at a very low heat. Add boiled rice (must be dry and 
fluffy) to the cooked sauce of shrimp and tomatoes and place in a 
baking dish. On top of the mixture add 6 or 8 strips of raw bacon 
and place the dish in oven, preheated to 375°, and cook until bacon 
is crisp. If preferred, the dish may be kept in oven at 250° for two 
hours or more so as to be ready at any time for an evening dish. 

Mrs. Witt1AM Poruam (Louisa Stoney) 


51 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Old Receipt for Corn and Shrimp 


2 pounds shrimp 1 teaspoon each prepared 
3 eggs mustard and 
3 cups sweet milk Worcestershire 
Y cup chopped celery y, stick butter (%4 cup) 
Y% cup chopped onion Salt, pepper 
\%4 cup chopped green Milk biscuits or 
ell pepper lunch crackers 
1 cup chopped green corn Cracker crumbs 


Beat eggs slightly. Mix all ingredients together. (Wash shrimp 
and pick raw. They may be put in raw, or cooked 5 minutes in 
double boiler. Put in juices if they are cooked.) Season to taste. 
Line buttered casserole with milk biscuits or lunch crackers. Pour in 
mixture. Sprinkle top with buttered cracker crumbs. Bake at 
800° for one hour. Serves 10. 

Mrs. M. L. McCrak (Ena Mae Black) 


Shrimp Casserole 


Y% pound sliced mushrooms % cup sherry 

2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
1 minced onion 3 pounds shrim 

2 tomatoes, cut up ¥% cup buttered bread 

% cup thin cream crumbs 

2 tablespoons flour Salt, pepper and paprika 


Sauté mushrooms in butter. Add onion and tomatoes and sim- 
mer for ten minutes. Blend cream and flour and add along with 
sherry, Worcestershire, salt, pepper and paprika, to taste. Add 
shrimp, cooked and peeled, and put in large buttered casserole. 
nee ue crumbs and bake in 350° oven until brown (20 minutes) 

erves 8. 


Mrs. KennetH Lyncu (Lyall Wannamaker) 


52 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Shrimp and Corn Pie 


2 cups corn, grated from cob % cup milk 


or 1 can of corn 1 cup cooked shrimp 
2 eggs, slightly beaten 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
1 tablespoon butter Salt, pepper and mace to 
taste 


To grated corn, add eggs, butter, milk, shrimp and seasoning. 
Bake in buttered casserole in 300° oven for 80 minutes. Serves 6. 
Variation: Some prefer to use corn cut from cob and not grated. 


Mrs. Rees F. Fraser (Mary Maybank) 


Shrimp Stuffed in Bell Peppers 


6 bell peppers (medium) 3 tablespoons chopped celery 

2 cups shrimp, cooked 1 tablespoon chopped onion 
and picked 1 tablespoon chopped 

1 cup bread crumbs bell pepper 

2 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon salt 

Y% cup milk ¥% teaspoon black pepper 

3 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 


Cut off tops and remove seeds from peppers. Cook pepper 
shells in boiling water for five minutes and then put at once into 
cold water. Cut shrimp slightly. Combine with eggs, crumbs and 
milk. Sauté chopped ingredients in butter for three minutes, and 
add to shrimp mixture. Add seasonings and stuff into pepper shells, 
putting a few bread crumbs and a dot of butter on top of each. 
Bake 30 to 40 minutes in moderate oven (875°). Serves 6. 


Mrs. Louis T. PARKER (Josephine Walker) 
53 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Shrimp in Guinea Squash 


1 guinea squash Dash hot sauce and mace 
(eggplant) medium 1 cup finely crumbled bread 

1 pound shrimp 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 

2 eggs ¥% teaspoon black pepper 

1 teaspoon salt, scant Toast crumbs 


Small piece of butter 


Cut guinea squash in half, lengthwise. Scoop out pulp, taking 
care not to pierce shell. Steam or boil pulp until tender, mash 
thoroughly. Add cooked shrimp, bread crumbs, and seasoning, 
then the well-beaten eggs. Pour into squash shells which have been 
wiped outside with oil. Sprinkle tops with toast crumbs, dot with 
butter. Bake in moderate oven about 80 minutes. Serves 4-6. 


Mrs. ArTuur J. Sroney (Anne Montague) 


Baked Shrimp Paste 


3 pounds shrimp Salt and pepper (red and 


6 baking powder biscuits black) to taste 
Y% pound butter 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
¥% small bell pepper Pinch dry mustard 


Boil and peel shrimp. Grind them thoroughly in a meat 
chopper with biscuits and bell pepper. Add seasoning and Wor- 
cestershire sauce. Mix with hands until well blended. Add melted 
butter to this. Use hands to pat and press this mixture into a greased 
loaf-shaped pan. Bake at 400° for 15 minutes. Turn out when 
wold ane cut in thin slices. (See Canapé chapter for shrimp paste). 

erves 8. 


Mrs. THappeus Street (Mary Leize Simons) 


34 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Hampton Plantation Shrimp Pilau 


4 slices bacon 2 tablespoons chopped 

1 cup rice (raw) bell pepper 

3 tablespoons butter Salt and pepper to taste 
Y cup celery cut small 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
2 cups shrimp (cleaned ) 1 tablespoon flour 


Water for rice (pg. 129) 


Fry bacon until crisp. Save to use later. Add bacon grease to 
water in which you cook rice. In another pot, melt butter, add celery 
and bell pepper. Cook a few minutes; add shrimp which have been 
sprinkled with Worcestershire sauce and dredged with flour. Stir 
and simmer until flour is cooked. Season with salt and pepper. 
Now add cooked rice and mix until rice is “all buttery” and 
“shrimpy.” You may want to add more butter. Into this stir the 
crisp bacon, crumbled. Serve hot. Serves 6. 

Mrs. Paut Seasrooxk (Harriott Horry Rutledge) 


Shrimp Croquettes 


3 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon grated onion 

5 tablespoons flour 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
1 cup milk 2 eggs 

¥% teaspoon salt 2 cups cooked, ground 
Pepper shrimp 


Bread or cracker crumbs 


Make a thick cream sauce of butter, flour and milk; add season- 
ing. Remove from stove, stir in one raw egg. Add shrimp and 
refrigerate until firm enough to shape into oblong croquettes. Roll 
in fine crumbs, then in beaten egg, and again in crumbs. Fry in deep 
fat. 

Variation: Crab meat can be used instead of shrimp. Serves 6. 
Mrs. Frepertck Ricuarps (Sarah Lee Watkins) 


55 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Jehossee Plantation Fried Shrimp 


1 pound shrimp Salt and pepper 
2 egg whites, beaten Cracker crumbs 


Peel shrimp raw and leave tails on. Spread tails with a rolling 
pin. Salt and pepper shrimp, dip in egg whites, then cracker crumbs, 
and egg whites again. Fry in deep fat until lightly brown. Serves 4. 

Mrs. Jack Maysanxk (Lavinia Huguenin) 


Fried Shrimp 


1 pound raw shrimp Cracker meal 
2 eggs Fat for frying 
2 tablespoons milk or water Salt and pepper 


Remove the heads and peel shrimp, leaving last segment and 
tail on. Dip each shrimp in egg which has been beaten and mixed 
with milk or water. Roll in cracker crumbs to which salt and pepper 
have been added. Fry in hot deep fat until golden brown. Drain 
and serve hot with cocktail sauce (receipt found under sauces). 
Serves 4. 

Mrs. Henry Cuisotm (Elizabeth Edwards) 


Shrimp or Lobster Cutlets 


1 cup milk Bread crumbs 

1% tablespoons flour Flour for rolling cutlets 

yY stick of butter 1% pounds shrimp 

Salt, hot sauce, and (ground) or 1 can 
sherry, to taste lobster 


1 egg (beaten) 


Make thick cream sauce of milk, flour, butter, salt and hot sauce. 
Add shrimp, then sherry. Shape like croquettes, then mash flat. 
Dip lightly in flour, then egg, then bread crumbs. Fry in deep fat. 

Mrs. Kintocw McDowe tt (Annie Bissell) 


58 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Buffet Supper Shrimp 


2 pounds shrimp 1 teaspoon salt 
1 cup cracker meal \% teaspoon red pepper 
1 small can evaporated milk 1 cup fat for frying 


Boil and shell shrimp. Make a batter of cracker meal, milk, 
salt and pepper. Dip shrimp in batter and fry in hot fat. 


DRESSING 
2 hard boiled eggs, 4 teaspoons chopped celery 
chopped Y% cup sweet pickles, 
1 teaspoon grated onion chopped 
% cup tomato catsup Y% cup mayonnaise 


Mix in order given and place in refrigerator until very cold. 
Serve the fried shrimp hot with cold dressing. Serves 6. 
Mrs. SAMUEL LapHAM (Lydia Thomas) 


Shrimp Curry 


4 tablespoons butter 3 pounds shrimp, boiled and 
1 large onion chopped fine cleaned 

Y cup apple chopped fine 2 tablespoons curry powder 
Y, cup celery chopped fine 1 pint cream 

1%4 cups water Salt and pepper to taste 


Put butter in a frying pan. When melted, add onion, apple 
and celery. Simmer these, then add water. Let all simmer gently 
until apple and celery are tender and most of the liquid has cooked 
away. Stir into the mixture the seasonings. Add the cream and 
shrimp. Cook gently until cream is reduced to sauce consistency. 
Serve with plenty of well-cooked rice. Have small bowls of grated 
coconut, chutney, chopped almonds, and pickle relish. Serves 8. 

Mrs. Rosert M. Hore (Nellie Rivers) 


57 


& 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Shrimp Royale 


3 onions, sliced 2 cups canned tomatoes 
2/3 cup diced celery 2 tablespoons canned peas 
1 tablespoon flour 1 tablespoon vinegar 

2 tablespoons shortening 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 2 cups cooked shrimp 

2 tablespoons chili powder 3 cups hot boiled rice 

1 cup water % cup sherry 


Cook onions and celery in the fat until brown. Add flour and 
seasonings. Add water slowly; cook 15 minutes. Add tomatoes, 
peas, vinegar, sugar and shrimp. Cook for 10 minutes, or until 
shrimp are thoroughly heated. Add sherry at last minute. After 
the rice is cooked, mould it into a ring and fill the center with the 
shrimp mixture. Serves 6. 

Mrs. JoHN Bennetr (Susan Smythe) 


My Grandmother’s Stewed Shrimp 


2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon fresh thyme 

1 tablespoon flour (or 14 teaspoon dried 

2 onions, finely chopped thyme ) 

2 pounds peeled shrimp 2 teaspoons chopped parsley 

6 tomatoes (or 134 cups 1 bay leaf (or % teaspoon 
canned tomatoes) powdered bay leaves) 

1 cup water Ya_teaspoon garlic salt 

1 green pepper, diced Salt and pepper to taste 


Melt butter, add flour gradually, cook to a light brown. Add 
onions and sauté until golden. Add shrimp and mix well. Let cool 
slightly, add tomatoes, water, green pepper, and seasoning. Cook, 
stirring frequently, for 10 minutes. Serve over rice. Serves 8. 

Mrs. Lawrence Lanve (Caroline Mullally ) 


58 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Brewton Inn Creole Shrimp 


4 tablespoons bacon drip- 1 quart can tomatoes 
pings 3 tablespoons tomato paste 

2 medium size onions Salt and pepper to taste 

1 green Pepper 3 cups cooked shrimp 

1% cups celery 1 teaspoon sugar 


Cut up onions, green pepper, and celery and fry in bacon drip- 
pings 15 or 20 minutes. Add quart can of tomatoes, sugar and 
paste. Let this mixture simmer slowly to thick consistency for 30 
to 45 minutes. Add pepper and salt. Fifteen minutes before 
serving, add cooked shrimp. This should be served with rice. 
Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. HersertT McNurra (Kathryn Deeds) 


Shrimp Supreme 


2 pounds shrimp 4 tablespoons butter 

1 bay leaf 4 tablespoons flour 

Red pepper (dash) 8 tablespoons tomato catsup 
Y% lemon (juice) 1% cups milk 

Salt and pepper to taste 4 tablespoons Worcestershire 


Cream butter and flour. Add milk and make a thick cream 
sauce. Add Worcestershire sauce, catsup, bay leaf, red pepper and 
lemon juice. Salt and pepper to taste. Add cooked shrimp and 
allow to get very hot. Serve in a ring of rice. Serves 6. 

Mrs. Davin MayBank (Marion Taber) 


Pickled Shrimp 


1 pint cooked shrimp 1 teaspoon salt 

34 cup cider vinegar 1 tablespoon salad oil or 

Y% cup water in which melted butter 
shrimp were boiled Pickling spices 


Bring vinegar and “shrimp water” to boil, drop in shrimp and 
cook until liquid reaches the boiling point. Put into sterilized jars 
immediately. Add salt, then salad oil to exclude air—seal. Do not 
boil shrimp in vinegar liquid as it will toughen them. A pinch of 
pickling spices may be added, if desired. Yield: 1 pint. 

Mrs. W. H. BARNWELL (Mary M. Royall) 


59 


¢ 
0) 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Sea Food Ragout 


2 pounds cooked shrimp Few drops of onion juice 

Y% cup ot butter 4 teaspoon pepper 

34 pound of mushrooms 1 pint oysters 

34 cup of cream 34 cup diced cooked chicken 
% cup of flour 2 tablespoons sherry 

Few grains of cayenne 1 tablespoon finely 

Salt to taste chopped parsley 


Parboil oysters. Make sauce of cream, flour and butter. Add 
seasoning, then the shrimp, mushrooms, chicken, oysters, wine and 


parsley. Serve hot. Serves 8. 
Mrs. Ress F. Fraser (Mary Maybank) 


Carolina Deviled Sea Food 


1 pound shrimp Salt, red pepper and 

Y pound fresh flaked Worcestershire to taste 
crab meat 1 onion, size of an egg 

1 pint small oysters 1 cup celery chopped 

Y pint fresh scallops 1 cup mashed potato 

1 bell pepper 1 cup canned tomatoes 

1 or 2 eggs Cracker crumbs 


Prepare all sea food and cook until tender, adding oysters after- 
wards. Cut up vegetables and cook celery, onions, and pepper until 
tender and add to sea food with the mashed potatoes, red pepper, 
salt and Worcestershire to taste. Now add 1 or 2 eggs with sufficient 
cracker crumbs to make right consistency to fill ramekins or shells, 
which have been greased with a little butter. After filling, sprinkle 
with cracker crumbs and dot with butter. Bake about 10 minutes 
in a hot oven and serve with lemon as a garnish. Serves 8. 

Mrs. Horace G. Smiruy, Jr. (Sara Rankin) 


60 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


How to Cook Crabs 


Have one inch of water in the pot in which crabs are to be 
cooked. Add 2 or 3 tablespoons of vinegar and salt to this. Put 
in crabs when water boils. Steam crabs for 25 to 30 minutes. The 
vinegar and steam make the crabs easy to pick. Keep clean crab 
shells in the refrigerator before using. 


Deviled Crabs 


4 tablespoons butter 2. teaspoons lemon juice 
2 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon chopped 
1 cup milk parsley 


1 teaspoon prepared mustard 2 cups crab meat 
4 cup bread crumbs toasted 2 hard-boiled eggs, minced 
Salt and pepper to taste 


Make a rich cream sauce with butter, flour and milk. Add other 
ingredients, putting in chunks of crab meat last. Put in shells with 
buttered toast crumbs on top. Bake in 400° oven for 30 minutes. 
This fills about 6 large crab shells. 

DESAUSSURE DEHON 


Variation: Mix 1 beaten egg and 1 tablespoon of Worcestershire 
sauce with other ingredients before adding crab meat, if desired, 
omitting hard boiled eggs. 


Deviled Crabs 


1 pound crab meat 2 hard-boiled eggs 

1 can condensed %4 cup grated sharp cheese 
mushroom soup Y% cup sherry 

Y% cup bread crumbs ¥% stick butter, melted 

1 egg (raw) Salt and pepper to taste 


Mix all together. Put in shells. Add more bread crumbs, dot 
with butter and grated cheese. Bake 30 minutes in moderate oven. 
Mrs. KintocH McDoweE tt (Annie Bissell) 


61 


| . CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Deviled Crabs 


1 pound crab meat 2 tablespoons sherry 

12 saltines (mashed) Pinch dry mustard 

Y% pound butter Pinch minced parsley 

1 tablespoon mayonnaise 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 


Salt, pepper to taste 


Pour melted butter over cracker crumbs, saving out 4 teaspoons 
to put on top of the stuffed crabs. Add mayonnaise, and other 
seasoning, then mix in crab meat with fork to keep from breaking 
up. Fill 6 large backs generously, then sprinkle with cracker 
crumbs, pouring the remaining butter on top. Bake in 400° oven 
for 30 minutes. Serve piping hot. 

Mrs. THADDEUS STREET (Mary Leize Simons) 


Crab Meat Casserole 


Make this dish in an earthenware or glass shallow cassercle 
which can be placed over a fire. Serve in the dish in which it is 
cooked. 


4 


1 pound fresh crab meat 2 teaspoons parsley, 
2 teaspoons mild finely minced 
grated onion 1 teaspoon chives, finely cut 
4 large mushrooms, 2 large tablespoons butter 
sliced thin 1% cups heavy sweet cream 
2 fresh tomatoes, peeled 1 jigger of brandy 
and cut in pieces Salt and cayenne to taste 


Melt butter in casserole; add sliced mushrooms and cook 5 
minutes. Add onion and tomatoes and cook another 5 minutes. Then 
add crab meat, leaving it in as large lumps as possible. Season and 
heat, then add the cream, stirring gently. Let boil 1 minute, no 
longer, then add parsley, chives and brandy. Serve at once from 
the casserole into shallow soup plates into which one has put a 
spoon of cooked rice. Serves 4 to 6. 

Mrs. H. P. Sraats (Juliette Wiles) 


62 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Crab Soufflé 


1 pound crab meat Y% pint milk 

1 tablespoon butter 4 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour Nutmeg to taste 

2 eggs White or cayenne pepper 


2 tablespoons sherry 


Melt butter and rub in flour to a paste. Add milk, salt, pepper 
and nutmeg. Cook in double-boiler until thick. When cool, stir in 
the yolks of eggs, slightly beaten. Add sherry. Now fold in the 
stiffly beaten whites and crab meat. Put in baking dish with 
crumbs on top and cook at once in pan of hot water in moderate 
oven 45 minutes. Serve immediately. Serves 6. 

Mrs. T. Lapson WEsB, Jr. (Anne Moore) 


Crab with Curried Rice 


1 pound crab meat 1% cups sharp cheese— 

1 quart thick white sauce grated coarsely 

¥% cup finely cut bell pepper 2 tablespoons Worcestershire 
Y cup chopped pimientos 2 tablespoons sherry 

1 cup finely cut celery Paprika, salt and pepper 


Season sauce with salt, pepper, Worcestershire and sherry. 
Combine all ingredients or arrange in layers in casserole dish, keep- 
ing back 4 cup cheese for top of dish. Sprinkle paprika over top 
and bake for one hour in moderate oven. Serves 8. 

Serve with rice curry, prepared as follows: 


2 cups rice 1 tablespoon curry powder 
2 cups chicken stock Salt 


Steam for one hour. 
Mrs. Jack W. Simmons (Irene Robinson) 


63 


CHARLESTON . RECEIPTS 


Crab Mousse 


1 pound white crab meat 1 tablespoon powdered 

¥Y bottle capers | mustard 

¥% cup chopped olives 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
(whole ones chopped) 1 envelope plain gelatine 

1 cup mayonnaise % cup cold water 

¥% cup cream or milk, 1 cup finely chopped celery 
heated Vinegar 


Mix crab, celery, capers and olives. Stir in mayonnaise, Wor- 
cestershire and mustard dissolved in a little vinegar. Soften gelatine 
in cold water and add to hot milk or cream. Pour this in your 
mixture and beat well. Put in oiled mold. Good with green or 
vegetable salad with French dressing. Serves 6. 


Mrs. Francis B. Stewart (Katherine Felder) 


Meeting Street Crab Meat 


1 pound white crab meat ¥% pint cream 
4 tablespoons butter 4 tablespoons sherry 
4 tablespoons flour 34 cup sharp grated cheese 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Make a cream sauce with the butter, flour and cream. Add salt, 
pepper and sherry. Remove from fire and add crab meat. Pour 
the mixture into a buttered casserole or individual baking dishes. 
Sprinkle with grated cheese and cook in a hot oven until cheese 
melts. Do not overcook. Serves 4. (114 pounds of shrimp may 
be substituted for the crab). 


Mrs. THomas A. HucuENIN (Mary Vereen) 


64 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Soft Shell Crabs 


How to clean a soft shell crab: lift and bend back the tapering 
points on each end of the crab’s soft shelled back. Remove the 
spongy. substance under them. This is locally called the “dead 
man. (That's what you'll be if you eat it—so it’s said.) Remove the 
eyes and the sand bag found behind the eyes. Then turn crab on 
its back and remove the long narrow piece which starts at lower 
center of shell and ends in a point—this is called the apron. 


Fried Soft Shell Crabs 


1 egg 1 teaspoon baking powder 
¥% cup milk Fat for frying 
¥, cup (or little more) Pinch of salt 

flour © 


Beat egg and milk. Add salt. Dip crabs thoroughly in egg and 
milk mixture, then in flour and baking powder which have been 
mixed. Have hot fat about % inch deep and cook until golden 
brown. Serve with tartare sauce. 

Mrs. JoHN Srmonps (Frances Rees) 


Charlotte’s Broiled Soft Shell Crabs 


(From her San Domingan Grandmother) 


Lay crabs in shallow baking pan, tucking claws close to body. 
Put a teaspoon of butter on each crab; put under broiler for ten 
minutes; then in top oven for ten minutes. If lemon juice is liked, 
pour over % cup to each dozen crabs before cooking—use no sea- 
soning. Salt in crabs and butter is sufficient. Can be served on 
toast and garnished with parsley and lemon slices. 
Mrs. W. Turner Locan, Sr. (Louise Lesesne) 


65 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Scalloped Oysters 


1 quart oysters Y% cup butter 
Milk 2 salt spoons of pepper 
1 pint cracker crumbs 2 salt spoons of mace 


Salt to taste 


Drain oysters and add to the liquor enough milk to make one 
pint. Salt to flavor and set where it will heat. Mix pepper and mace 
with cracker crumbs. Melt butter and add to crumbs. Put oysters 
and crumbs in baking dish in layers—crumbs first and then oysters. 
Pour the liquor over the top and bake in a moderate oven for 20 
to 30 minutes. Serves 6-8. 

Miss JANE CuristiE HAMMOND 


Broiled Oysters 


1 pint oysters 1 cup cracker crumbs (fine) 
Y cup salad oil ¥Y% teaspoon salt 
4 teaspoon pepper 

Drain oysters then dry in towel. Dip in oil and then cracker 
crumbs to which salt and pepper have been added. Broil in hot 
oven (425°) until oysters are golden brown on one side. Turn each 
oysters and cook on other side until done. Serve at once with tomato 
catsup. Serves 4-6. 

Mrs. JoHN MiTcHELL, Jr. (Edith LaBruce) 


Fried Oysters 
Salt and pepper 


1 quart oysters 1 cup bread crumbs, 
2 eggs, beaten cracker crumbs or 
2 tablespoons milk corm meal 


Drain oysters; mix eggs, milk, seasonings. Dip oysters in egg 
mixture and roll in crumbs. Fry in deep fat (875°F) about 2 
minutes or until brown. Or fry in shallow fat about 2 minutes on 
one side, turn and brown on other side. Serves 6. 

Mrs. Tomas E. Myers (Elizabeth Norcross) 


66 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. C. C. Calhoun’s Chafing Dish Oysters 


4 tablespoons butter 1 pint small oysters 
Y% cup thick cream 1 wineglass sherry 
6 waffle squares Cayenne, mace, celery, salt 


Melt butter in a chafing dish. Add the oysters and cook for 
3 or 4 minutes. Pour the cream in slowly and carefully and bring 
just to the boiling point. When ready to serve add the sherry. 
Before ladling onto the crisp, hot waffles, dust with seasonings. 
Mrs. Laurens Patrerson (Martha Laurens) 


Oyster Fritters 


1 cup chopped, drained Y% teaspoon salt 
oysters 6 tablespoons flour 

4 eggs, separated 1 tablespoon minced 

Ym teaspoon pepper onion (optional) 


Beat egg yolks until thick and creamy. Add onions, salt and 
pepper, then flour (a little at a time). Fold in oysters and stiffly 
beaten egg whites. Drop by spoonfuls in hot fat. Serves 5. 

Mrs. Ropert Witson, JR. (Gabrielle McColl) 


Corn Oysters 


1 cup raw corn, grated, 1 well beaten egg 
or canned corn % cup flour 
(creamed style) 1 pint large oysters 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Combine corn, egg and flour—season. To each tablespoon of 
this mixture add one oyster. Drop in deep fat or cook on a hot, 


well greased grill. Serves 4. 
Mrs. Rees F. Fraser (Mary Maybank) 


67 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Baalam’s Oysters 


1 pint oysters 1 or 2 teaspoons 

1 cup rich cream sauce prepared mustard 

1 teaspoon red pepper 12 or 14 crackers 
sauce 4 teaspoon salt 


1 or 2eggs, beaten 
1 teaspoon Worcestershire 


Add everything except crackers to cream sauce. Cover bottom 
of shallow casserole with crumbled crackers. Pour in mixture of 
sauce and oysters; cover with more crumbs and dot with butter. 
Bake in hot oven until crumbs look pretty and brown. Sherry may 
be used in place of hot seasoning and is nice for a change. Serves 6. 


Mrs. T. M. Uzzexu (Marjorie McColl) 


Oysters with Macaroni 


1 pint oysters 3 tablespoons butter 
1 small box macaroni 1 teaspoon salt 
2 cups milk 1 teaspoon black pepper 


Cracker crumbs 


Boil macaroni in water and when cooked pour off water. Place 
1 layer of macaroni in baking dish and then 1 layer of oysters, con- 
tinuing until the oysters and macaroni have been used up. Pour 
milk into baking dish and put pieces of butter around sides of dish. 
Add salt and pepper and cover top with cracker crumbs. Bake for 
30 minutes in 850° oven. Serves 8. 


Mrs. JAMEs D. Lucas (Janie Larsen) 


Variation: Milk may be omitted and more butter added—servings 
will be less juicy. 


68 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Low-Country Oysters with Mushrooms 


1 pound fresh mushrooms 2 small cans pimientos 
(sliced ) (sliced ) 

1% quarts oysters 4 cups cream 

8 tablespoons butter 8 tablespoons flour 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Sauté mushrooms and pimientos in butter. After mushrooms 
have cooked a few minutes, sift flour over mixture and when it 
begins to thicken, add cream, salt and pepper. Let oysters simmer 
in their own liquor in another pan until the edges curl. Add oysters 
to mushroom sauce and add more cream if too dry. Serve from 
chafing dish or on a platter surrounded by toast triangles. Serves 8. 


Mrs. THomas A. HucuENin (Mary Vereen) 


Oysters and Sweetbreads in Patty Shells 


1 quart oysters 2 tablespoons butter 
1 pair sweetbreads ¥% to 1 cup thick cream 
1 level tablespoon flour 1 cup oyster liquor 


Salt, pepper, cayenne to taste 


Blanch and chill sweetbreads; remove membrane and chop 
quite fine. Heat oysters in their own liquor about 8 minutes. Drain 
and chop fine. Rub together the flour, butter, salt, pepper and 
cayenne. Put oyster liquor in double boiler with butter-flour mix- 
ture. Stir constantly until thickened, then add cream. Add sweet- 
breads and oysters to sauce. Mixture must not be too stiff. Fill 
patty shells with mixture. Serves 6. 


Mrs. JouN D. Wine (Elizabeth Hoffman) 
69 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Curried Oysters 


1 quart oysters 2 teaspoons curry powder 
2 tablespoons butter % pint oyster liquor 

4 teaspoon onion juice % pint milk 

1 tablespoon flour 1 small teaspoon salt 


Put butter and onion juice in pan, add flour and curry powder 
and when mixture bubbles, stir in oyster liquor, milk and salt. 
When the sauce is smooth and boils, put in oysters and cook until 
they are plump and the edges crimp. This will take about 4 
minutes. Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. Natuanteu I. Batti, Jr. (Anne Barnwell) 


Clams Southside 


1 quart hard-shell clams % cup butter 
(not in shell) Salt and pepper 
1 small onion Worcestershire to taste 
Y% pint heavy cream Chopped green fresh pepper 
Toast 


Put clams through coarse meat chopper. Sauté finely chopped 
onion in butter until gold in color. Cook clams and onion in double- 
boiler 20 minutes. Add salt, pepper and Worcestershire, then cream. 
Garnish with peppers and serve on toast. Serves 4. 

Mrs. Joun D. Wine (Elizabeth Hoffman) 


Clams and Guinea Squash 


1 large guinea squash Y% cup milk 
1 (10% oz.) can minced 3 tablespoons butter 
clams Salt and pepper to taste 


1 cup cracker crumbs 

Peel, slice and boil guinea squash in salty water until tender. 
Drain and mash well; stir in 2 tablespoons butter. Drain clams 
and reserve the juice. Place thin layers of guinea squash, clams 
and cracker crumbs dotted with butter in casserole. Continue until 
all ingredients are used. Mix the milk with the clam juice and 
season with salt and pepper, then pour over the mixture in cas- 
serole. Cook uncovered in oven 350° about 30 minutes. Serves 6. 

Mrs. Hucu Carucarr (Marguerite McDonald) 


70 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


John C. Calhoun’s Lobster Newburg 


4 lobsters 1% pints cream 
¥Y% pound butter 1 tablespoon flour 
1 teaspoon paprika (or more) 

Y% teaspoon salt 1 wineglass sherry 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Cook lobsters in boiling water for half hour. Cut meat from 
tails and dice. Cook slowly in %4 pound of butter on side of stove. 
Add paprika and salt. Let cream come to a boil, add % pound 
butter that has been mixed with flour. Put on knife blade to test 
for thickness. Stir in lobster and lastly sherry and more salt and 
paprika, if desired. Serves 6. 


Mrs. Louis D. Simonps (Mary Rhett) 


My Great-Grandmother’s Lobster N ewburg 


Meat of 4-pound lobster Y% pint cream 
4 tablespoons butter 2 teaspoons salt 
2 tablespoons brandy ¥%4 teaspoon red pepper 
2 tablespoons sherry %4 teaspoon nutmeg 
4 egg yolks 


Cut meat of lobster into small, delicate pieces. Put the butter 
in a frying pan. When hot, put in lobster. Cook slowly for 5 
minutes. Then add salt, pepper, and nutmeg, stirring constantly, 
adding the cream with the beaten egg yolks. Add brandy and 
sherry at the last as mass begins to thicken. Serve on puff paste 
or toast. 
Variation: Shrimp or crab meat may be substituted. Serves 6-8. 


Mrs. J. Ross HANAHAN, Jr. (Muriel Viglini) 
71 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Otranto Pine Bark Stew 
“As told me by my Father” 

Arise early and go on the Lake and catch about eighteen Big- 
Mouth Bass, Bream or Red Breast. 

Have “Patsie” make an outdoor fire of pine bark—then have her 
slice about one dozen Irish potatoes and about one dozen small 
onions. 

Place a large deep iron saucepan over the fire and fry one pound 
of bacon. Remove bacon and leave grease in bottom of saucepan. 
Place a layer of sliced potatoes and then a layer of sliced onion in 
saucepan (using 1/3 of potatoes and 1/3 of onions). Cover with 
boiling salted water. Let simmer for 10 minutes, then place a layer 
of whole fish on top. Sprinkle about 1 tablespoon curry powder on 
fish. Then place a second layer of potatoes, onion and fish and add 
boiling salted water to cover. Top with third layer of potatoes and 
onions. Place top on saucepan and cook very slowly all morning. 
It is done when the top layer of potatoes is soft. 


SAUCE 

Melt 12 pound of butter in saucepan. Add about % bottle of 
Worcestershire sauce, 2 bottle tomato catsup, 1 tablespoon curry 
powder, ¥2 teaspoon red pepper, and 4 teaspoon black pepper. Add 
to this several cups of the extract from stew and mix well. Pour 
sauce over Pine Bark Stew and place bacon on top and serve with 
rice. Serves 12. 

Louis Y. Dawson, Jr. (President of Otranto Club) 


Soused Fish 


“This is from an old book of Maria Bachman, the wife of my 
great-grandfather, the Rev. John Bachman. It was she who ainted 
many of the backgrounds for Audubon’s famous paintings. 


Sprinkle any fish with salt and pepper as if you were going to 
fry it. Then boil the fish in vinegar instead of water. Season with 
cloves, mace, pepper and Worcestershire sauce. Put fish and sauce 
into mould. The bones will all become soft, and the whole will 
turn out in a form like jelly. 

Mrs. LioneL K. Leccr (Dorothy Porcher) 


72 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Channel Bass 


(Any fillet of fish can be used) 


“Until Mrs. S. James O’Hear gave me this receipt, I had always 
thought channel bass a rather uninteresting fish to eat, but now I no 
longer give my catch away.” 


2 or 3 pound bass 1 tablespoon dry white wine 
% pound butter Salt, pepper, and paprika 
Lemon juice Parmesan cheese 


Fillet fish and salt and pepper them. Put butter in shallow 
baking dish in hot oven (400° to 500°) until it is browned. This 
gives the distinctive flavor. Place fillets flesh side down in sizzling 
hot butter and return to oven for 10 or 15 minutes. Turn with 
spatula and baste with juice. Sprinkle each piece with lemon juice 
and dry white wine, Parmesan cheese and paprika. Return to oven 
until done—approximately 5 minutes. Run under broiler and broil 
quickly. Baste fish with sauce and serve in the sauce. This receipt 
is good for any fish fillet. Serves 4. 

Mrs. CHartes W. Warinc (Margaret Simonds) 


Fillet of Sole Marguery 


1 large sole or flounder 1 pound cooked shrimp 
2/3 cup white wine ¥% pound fresh mushrooms 
1 tablespoon flour 2 tablespoons butter 

2 cups heavy cream Salt 


Fillet sole or flounder; place in buttered pan, sprinkle with salt 
and pour % cup white wine over fish. Bake 20 minutes, basting 
aften. Remove fillets to platter. Thicken stock, in which fish has 
been baking, with flour. When well blended, add cream, shrimp, 
mushrooms (chopped fine and sauté in butter). Now add remain- 
ing wine. Pour this over fillets; garnish with parsley and serve 
piping hot. Serves 4-6. 

Mrs. RoBert SMALL (Louise Johnson) 


73 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Pompano with Shrimp Sauce 


6 pompano fillets ¥, clove garlic, minced 

2 cups thick white sauce 4 tablespoons onion, minced 
¥% cup chopped shrimp 4 tablespoons green pepper, 
Salt to taste chopped 


Season sauce with shrimp, garlic, onion, pepper and salt. 
Spread fillets with sauce. Place each one on a square of parchment 
or cooking paper. Wrap so that no steam will escape and bake in 
350° oven for 45 minutes. Serve directly from paper. Flounder or 
bass fillets may be substituted for pompano. 

Mrs. Witt1amM Gransy Dopps (Louise Hutson) 


Pompano a la Gherardi 


“An original creation of Henry's and named for Admiral 
Gherardi.” 


1 pompano 4 ounces stuffing 
Salt and pepper Bacon strips 
Small shrimp Chopped olives 


Select a firm whole pompano. Remove head and split down 
flat side, removing center bone structure in order to provide pocket. 
Salt and pepper fish then stuff with the following stuffing, topping 
pocket opening with whole shrimp, chopped olives and strip bacon. 
Place in covered vessel and bake for 15 minutes. 


STUFFING 
2 pounds cooked shrimp Y% cup sherry 
1 pound white crab meat 1 cup butter 
1 loaf bread 4 bunch parsley 
1 bunch green onions 2 eggs 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Mince above ingredients and mix well. Cook slowly to prevent 


scorching. Stuff pompano. (Above stuffing receipt sufficient for 12 
small pompano). 


Watter L. SHAFFER (Henry’s Restaurant) 


74 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Boneless Baked Shad 


3 or 4 pound shad 1 tablespoon vinegar 
1 quart water Salt and pepper to taste 
4 or 5 strips bacon 

Boil shad in water and vinegar with seasonings for 20 minutes. 
Drain off water; put in a heavy, tightly covered roaster and cook in 
oven slowly (200°) for 5 or 6 hours. Add roe about 80 minutes 
before fish is done. Put strips of bacon across the shad and place 
under broiler for bacon to brown. This is delicious. When done, 
the bones are completely dissolved. Serves 6. 


Mrs. Jennincs W. P. Foster (Mary Leiper) 


Planked Shad 


Scale and clean a 4-or 5-pound shad, preferably a roe shad. 
Remove head and fins and with very sharp knife cut along back- 
bone on either side, making two fillets. Backbone portion with 
flesh adhering may be reserved for frying. Salt and pepper fillets. 
Grease well a large oak plank about 18 inches long (can be pur- 
chased in hardware stores) and place fillets skin side down on 
plank. Dot with butter and broil under medium flame until done 
(20 to 30 minutes). When done, fish flakes easily when touched 
with fork. Add more butter just before removing from oven. 
Finely chopped parsley may be sprinkled over fish or parsley sprigs 
and lemon slices used as a garnish. Whipped and creamed Irish 
potatoes may be also used as edge around plank just before re- 
moving from oven. The roe may be broiled separately and added 
to the plank if desired. Serve with sauce tartare. Serves 6, gen- 
erously. 


Mrs. Joun A. Hertz (Adele B. Mathewes) 
75 


¢ 
0) 


CHARLESTON RECEJPTS 


Boiled Sheepshead or 


Blackfish with Egg Sauce 
1 large or 2 medium sheeps- _1 bay leaf 


head or blackfish 2 large slices onion 
(4 pounds) %4 cup celery 
Sauce: 
2% tablespoons butter %4 cup chopped parsley 
1 tablespoon flour 2 hard boiled eggs 
Lemon slices Salt and pepper to taste 


Clean and scale, leaving fish whole; salt and pepper thoroughly. 
Place fish in heavy covered roaster or baking pan with about % 
inch of water, bay leaf, onion and celery. Simmer gently in 
medium oven or on top of stove until fish is thoroughly cooked. Now 
make a thickened sauce as follows: melt the butter in saucepan, 
add flour, stir smooth and add liquid in which fish was cooked. 
(There should be about 1% cups.) Return to roaster and add 
parsley and baste fish with sauce for a few minutes. Carefully 
remove fish whole to large deep platter. Slice hard boiled eggs 
over fish and pour sauce over whole. Garnish with parsley and 
lemon. Serve with hot rice. Serves 6. 

Miss JEANNIE T. Cason 


Barbecued Fish 


One, 3 or 4-pound fish 1 cup tomato catsup 

2 tablespoons chopped 1 tablespoon fat or 
onions bacon grease 

2 tablespoons vinegar ¥% cup lemon juice 

2 tablespoons brown sugar Y teaspoon salt 


3 tablespoons Worcestershire Dash pepper 


Place fish in greased shallow pan, sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
Lightly brown onions in fat, add remaining ingredients. Simmer 5 
minutes then pour over fish. Bake in hot oven (425°) 85 to 40 
minutes. Baste fish with sauce while cooking. Serves 6. 

Miss Vircinta MITCHELL 


76 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


The Bluff Plantation Cooter Pie 


1 medium sized cooter 2 hard-boiled eggs, cut up 
(terrapin ) 2 slices toasted bread 

Y% cup stewed tomatoes (crumbed ) 

1 cup milk Worcestershire sauce 

1 cup liquor from stew pot Celery salt 

2 tablespoons butter Mace 

1 tablespoon whiskey Red pepper 

1 tablespoon sherry Black pepper to taste 


Drop live cooter in the pot of boiling water. Cook 45 minutes. 
Open shell with a saw and take out meat, fat, liver and eggs. Be 
careful not to break the gall. Remove meat from the feet and legs. 
Put all this in a pot with a little water and salt and stew until 
tender, usually about one hour. Then cut up meat, liver and eggs 
and add stewed tomatoes, milk, liquor from stew pot, butter, 
whiskey, sherry, eggs (cut up), bread crumbs and seasonings. Put 
in shell which has been thoroughly cleaned, cover with cracker 
crumbs, dot with butter and bake in 375° oven about 45 minutes. 
Serves 6. 

Mrs. Henry H. Ficken (Julia Ball) 


Fish Mousse 


1 pound halibut or any fish 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
Salt and pepper to taste ¥% cup cream 
3 egg whites, stiffly beaten 


Boil fish until tender. Drain and put through a sieve. Season 
and add lemon juice. Beat cream to a stiff froth and add to the 
fish; then fold in egg whites. Put in a buttered mold and cook in 
hot water in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. Turn out and serve 
with any preferred sauce around it. Serves 6. 


Miss EuGENIA FROST 


ys 


o 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Shrimp Cocktail Sauce 


The famous Brewton Inn receipt which gourmets the world 
over have long sought. 


4 egg yolks (raw) Y% teaspoon hot sauce 
1 quart salad oil Juice of 2 lemons 
] teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon vinegar 


1 bottle tomato catsup 


Beat egg yolks. Make a sauce in a separate bowl of the salt, 
hot sauce, lemon juice and vinegar. Gradually add oil and sauce to 
eggs. Mix well and add catsup. Will keep several weeks in re- 
frigerator. 

Mrs. Kintoch McDoweE Lt (Annie Bissell) 


D. P. L.’s Cocktail Sauce 
(for Shrimp or Crabs) 


1 cup good mayonnaise 3 tablespoons chili sauce 

1 tablespoon lemon juice 2 tablespoons horseradish 

3 tablespoons tomato catsup 2: tablespoons whipped 
cream 


Mix ingredients. Add hot sauce, mace, celery salt, cayenne, 
and nutmeg to taste. 
Mrs. Lionen K. Leccr (Dorothy H. Porcher) 


Tartare Sauce 


1 cup mayonnaise 1 tablespoon chopped capers 
3 tablespoons chopped pickle 2. tablespoons chopped 
1 tablespoon chopped stuffed olives 

parsley 1 teaspoon chopped onion 


Mix all ingredients and chill. Serve with soft shelled or deviled 
crabs and fish. 


Mrs. F. Mrrcuett Jounson (Margaret Silcox) 


78 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Onion Sherry 


Slice onions, put in jar or bottle and cover with cooking sherry. 
Receptacle can be refilled twice. For creamed shrimp, crab, fish or 
chicken. Keep well corked. 

Mrs. W. Turner Locan, Sr. (Louise Lesesne ) 


Shrimp Sauce 


11% cups olive oil Powdered mustard “to 

% cup vinegar desired temperature” 

1 teaspoon onion juice 1 or 2 cloves of garlic 

Salt, pepper and paprika Few drops of hot sauce 
to taste 


Make two or three days ahead of time and shake well before 
using. Keeps well in refrigerator. 
Mrs. D. R. STEVENson (Kate Waring) 


Oyster Cocktail Sauce 


4 tablespoons tomato catsup _ Salt 


or chili sauce Few grains red pepper 

2 teaspoons lemon juice 114 teaspoons grated 

114 teaspoons Worcester- horseradish (optional) 
shire 


Mix and pour over oysters just before serving. Serves 4. 
Mrs. W. H. BARNWELL (Mary M. Royall) 


Horseradish Sauce 


2 tablespoons grated 1%4 teaspoon salt 
horseradish \%4 teaspoon Berpes 
1 tablespoon vinegar 4 tablespoons whipped 
cream 


Mix horseradish with vinegar, add seasonings and stir in cream, 
whipped stiff. 
Mrs. J. Ross HANAHAN, Jr. (Muriel Viglini) 


79 


- OLD SAINT ANDREWS 
: 1706 


CHURCH 


j ee Tal 


| Alfred H utty 


MEATS 


EE ie ain’ bin n meet ‘Ti de eiie.dlartanit ain’ wut! 


PesSeeie yt ayverea 


or ane a song 6f ab bis baked in a: smal. 
Serve with a gravy, or sauce with ‘a zing: - 
When the dish-is served, the Beene poo to > sing. 


Beef a la Mode 


“My Pater "methods which he: brought back re France, 
where he was educated.” 


en 6) pounds beef off the round- Apple cider vinegar - 


| -or-a haunch of venison — ‘Ground: cloves, whole black 
~*~ pound bacon (cut up) “pepper, and allspice 
~ 8 large ‘onions: (chopped) _ Bay leaf 


ei cup ean (approx.) | Red pepper 
Salt and pepper 


Use a very castnill: selected cut of beef off the round, no bone 
(costs now about one million dollars). Put this, the night before, 
in an earthen bowl and just cover with vinegar after having stuffed 
it with bacon, onions, spices and a bit of bay leaves—no salt. It is 
stuffed by piercing meat with sharp knife and ramming down the 
mixed seasonings. These gashes are cut in the top of the beef as 
well as both sides. When the beef is fairly bursting and as swollen 
as a pouter pigeon, then all is well. Bind cord around the meat 
to keep seasonings in. Next morning the meat is lifted out, rubbed 
with salt and pepper, covered heavily with shortening and coated 
with flour.. Sear on top of the stove until a:rich"brown: Pour the 
same ‘vinegar (no: water) over it and cook in a covered roaster in 
a 800 degree oven 20 minutes to the pound, The ‘gravy can be 
thickened, if necessary, after the meat is: taken out. It is good 
eaten hot and served with rice or Hoppin’ John or sliced cold, for 
weeks: (but’it will not last that long). My daughter. tells me she 
has tiséd chuck meat, instead of the more e“expenstve round. Serves 
about 25.° rr 

er ee eT ee Te as O'NEILL VERNER 


81 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Spaghetti with Beef 


1 pound ground round steak _—1 large box spaghetti 


5 slices bacon, cut in 1 large onion, chopped 
small pieces 1 large bell pepper, chopped 

1 medium can mushrooms 1 small bottle stuffed olives, 
(stems and pieces) chopped 

4 tablespoons olive oil Salt 

2 tablespoons tomato catsup Paprika 

3 cups grated cheese Cayenne Pepper 


1 quart can tomatoes 


Put bacon in frying pan, cook with onions and bell pepper until 
slightly brown. Add olive oil and ground meat. Cook until meat 
begins to brown. Add rest of ingredients, tomatoes, chopped olives, 
tomato sauce, salt, pepper and mushrooms. Cook until it thickens; 
then pour over cooked spaghetti. Cover with grated cheese. Serves 
6-8. 

Mrs. J. WALKER CoLEMAN (Felicia Chisolm) 


Meat Loaf on Top of Stove 


1 pound ground beef 1 teaspoon tomato catsup 
Season to taste ¥% teaspoon Worcestershire 
1 bay leaf sauce 


Small grated onion 


Mix, shape in loaf, put in heavy-bottomed pot. Cover, cook on 
medium heat about 45 minutes, basting often with juice from meat. 
When brown, thicken gravy with 1 tablespoon flour. Serves 6. 


Mrs. A. T. SMyTue (Harriott Buist) 
82 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Corned Beef or Pork 


5 pounds good round of 1 tumbler (cup) salt 
beef or leg of pork 1 tablespoon brown sugar 
1 tablespoon saltpeter 


Rub salt, sugar and saltpeter thoroughly into the meat. Leave 
in this pickle 7 days. Add no liquid. Turn meat from time to 
time. After 7 days, wash meat with cold water; place in pot and 
cover with water. Boil covered about 3 hours or until tender. Do 
not brown the beef, but dress the pork as a ham, with brown sugar 
and cloves, and run in the oven to brown. Serves 10. 

Miss ELLEN PARKER 


Beef Strogonoff 


2 pounds lean round steak 2 cups sour cream 

3 small onions Y% pound fresh mushrooms 

1 or 2 tablespoons or 1 large can 
tomato paste Soy sauce to taste 

Consommé or beef stock Salt, pepper and flour 


Cut beef in thinnest possible slices. Pound in flour, salt and 
pepper. Cut into strips about 8 inches by %4 inch. Dice onions 
and fry slowly until soft and just turning yellow. Then add meat 
and sauté until well seared. Add tomato paste and enough con- 
sommé or beef stock to just cover. Add soy sauce to taste. Sim- 
mer until tender. Transfer to top of double-boiler and add sour 
cream and mushrooms. Re-heat in double-boiler when ready to 
serve. Serve on rice or red rice. Serves 6. 


Mrs. JOHN E. FLoRANCE (Mary Elizabeth Warley) 
83 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Baked Calf’s Head 


1 calf’s head 1 pinch of nutmeg 
2 sprigs parsley 3 hard-boiled eggs 
1 pinch of thyme 1 cup of bread crumbs 


Pepper and salt to taste 


Soak calf’s head overnight in salt water. Boil with parsley, 
thyme, and nutmeg until thoroughly done. Cool and cut it up into 
small pieces. Make brown gravy, put bread crumbs and chopped-up 
hard-boiled eggs in it. Mix chopped calf’s head thoroughly with 
the gravy. Put mixture into greased baking dish, cover lightly with 
cracker crumbs, and bake in oven 850° until browned, about 35 
minutes. Serves 6. 

WiLMER HOFFMAN 


Flanders Tongue 


2 fresh tongues ¥2, teaspoon thyme 

1 quart stock 1 pound mushrooms 

6 crushed peppercorns 2 tablespoons butter 

4 cloves 4 teaspoons flour 

4 bay leaves Ye cup tarragon vinegar 
1 teaspoon nutmeg ¥% cup sherry 


Boil tongues in salted water until tender. Skin, cool and slice 
fairly thin. Add peppercorns, cloves, bay leaves, nutmeg and thyme 
to stock. Boil 5 minutes and strain. Sauté mushrooms in butter. 
Remove from grease and add flour to brown. Add tongue stock. 
When thickened, add tongue and mushrooms. Add vinegar and 
simmer for half an hour. Before serving, add 14 cup sherry. Serve 
with mashed potatoes. Serves 10-12. 


Mrs. Cuartes W. Warinc (Margaret Simonds) 


84 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Creamed Sweetbreads with Sherry 


2 pairs sweetbreads 4 tablespoons of good sherry 

1 teaspoon lemon juice 2 egg yolks 

Y% cup small mushroom 4 tablespoons of butter 
buttons or margarine 


1 teaspoon finely chopped 1 cup of whipping cream 
spring onion, tops and Salt, pepper, paprika, and 
all a dash of curry powder 


Parboil the sweetbreads. Then cover with ice cold water for 
thirty minutes, and remove loose membranes. A few drops of 
lemon juice in the cold water will keep the sweetbreads snowy 
white. Cut the sweetbreads into medium slices. Season with salt 
and pepper and sauté for three minutes in the butter. Add the 
drained mushrooms and sauté five minutes longer. Add the minced 
onions and sherry and let the whole simmer for fifteen minutes. 
Blend together the egg yolk, 14 teaspoon of lemon juice and two 
tablespoons cream. Remove the sweetbreads from the fire and 
stir in the egg yolk mixture very slowly, stirring gently from 
bottom of pan. Place in oven-proof dish. Whip the remaining 
cream, flavored with salt, paprika and dash of curry. Spread over 
sweetbreads. Set under flame of broiling oven for a minute to 
glaze. Serves 4. 

Mrs. WALTER Metts (Jane Stauffer) 


Corned Tongue 


1 large tongue 1 light tablespoon 
2 tablespoons salt brown sugar 
1 pint hot water Saltpeter size of a pea 


Melt saltpeter and sugar in hot water. Salt tongue and place 
in the bottom of a crock and cover when water is cool. Turn tongue 
over after a day or two. Boil slowly. Serve cold. Keeps in- 
definitely. Serves 6. 


Mrs. LioneL K. Lecce (Dorothy Porcher) 
85 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Roast Pork 


In the days of good Queen Bess, “Master Skylark” undoubtedly 
enjoyed this dish. 


1 leg pork, 8 to 10 1 quart can tomatoes 
pounds or smaller 3 sliced onions 

1 cup brown sugar 1 tablespoon hot sauce 

1 tablespoon salt 1 cup tomato catsup 

1 tablespoon black pepper 1 cup water 


Rub into pork the brown sugar, salt and black pepper. Add to 
the pan for basting: the tomatoes, onions, hot sauce, catsup, water. 
Roast slowly about 3%4 hours, preferably in a double roaster, in a 
350° oven, 30 minutes per pound. Serves 8 to 10. 

Mrs. JoHN BENNETT (Susan Smythe) 


Pork Supreme 


3 strips of bacon 1 cup of diced onion 
1 pound of lean pork which _—1 cup of diced celery 
has been coarsely ground _—_2_ teaspoons of ground ginger 
1 egg plant (diced) % of a cup of soy sauce 
1 cup of diced green pepper _—1 can of bean sprouts 
Y cup of pecans 
Fry bacon, remove from pan and add pork, stirring constantly 
until it is well cooked, but not brown. Add diced vegetables and 
two cups of water. Mix well. Add ginger and soy sauce. Cook until 
tender, then add bean sprouts and pecans and cook for five minutes. 
Serve over steamed rice. This receipt calls for NO salt. Serves 6. 


Mrs. W. T. Hartman (Betty Blaydes) 
88 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Sweet and Sour Pork 


“During World War II my husband, Colonel Louis Y. Dawson, 
Jr., was stationed in China. He had the pleasure of attending a 
dinner given by Madame Kung (one of the Soong sisters). He en- 
joyed so much the “Sweet and Sour Pork,” which was served, that 
he asked a friend, General Ho Shi Li, to obtain the receipt for him.” 


1 pound lean pork Pea flour (plain flour will 
Salt do) 
Pepper Peanut oil (vegetable oil) 
1 teaspoon soy sauce Carrots, 1 cup finely 
Seanium oil (vegetable chopped 
oil) ¥% cup of diced green 
bell peppers 


Cut one pound of lean pork into pieces about 14” thick, 1” long 
and 4” wide. Add salt and pepper to taste, and soy sauce. Fry 
the pieces of pork in seanium oil. When well done, roll the pork in 
pea flour, and broil for five minutes in boiling peanut oil. Remove 
the pork and broil the carrots and bell peppers for one minute 
in the boiling peanut oil. Mix the pork, carrots and bell peppers 
and serve with the hot Sweet and Sour Sauce. Serves 6. 


SWEET AND SOUR SAUCE 


1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon lemon juice 
¥% cup white vinegar 1 teaspoon catsup 

1 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon garlic, finely 
1 teaspoon soy sauce chopped 


Mrs. Louis Y. Dawson, Jr. (Virginia Walker) 


87 


¢ 
i) 


“Cheaper by the Dozen” Spare Ribs 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


3 or 4 pounds spare ribs 1 teaspoon paprika 

2 onions (sliced) 4 teaspoon red pepper 

2 teaspoons vinegar ¥% teaspoon black pepper * 

2 teaspoons Worcestershire 1 teaspoon chili powder 
sauce 34 cup catsup 

1 teaspoon salt 34 cup water 


Select meaty spare ribs. Cut into servings or leave uncut. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place in roaster and cover with 
onions. Combine remaining ingredients and pour over meat. Cover 
and bake in moderate oven (350 degrees) about 1% hours. Baste 
occasionally, turning spareribs once or twice. Remove cover last 
15 minutes to brown ribs. Serves 6. 


Mrs. Frank B. Grisretu, Jr. (Elizabeth Cauthen) 


Baked Ham Slices 


2 slices tenderized ham, 1 cup sherry 
114” thick % cup honey 

2 cups fruit juice (apricot, Apricot halves 
pineapple or orange) Mustard 


Peanut butter 


Spread ham slices with prepared mustard and peanut butter 
and put 1 slice on top of other. Pour 2 cups fruit juice over ham. 
Bake }% hour at 825°. Add wine. Bake another hour. Place apricot 
halves (or cherries) on top and pour on 4 cup honey and bake 20 
minutes longer. Serves 10. 


Mrs. Cuarves E. Prioceau (Anne Little) 
88 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Baked Ham 


“This is contributed by a friend of the Junior League from 
Georgia and is often served at Colonial Dames Meetings at the 
Powder Magazine in Charleston. It is superlative for Country—not 
Smithfield ham—but good for any standard ham.” 


The ham is baked in a dough blanket, made as follows: 


4 cups flour 2 tablespoons dried mustard 
1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon black pepper 
2 tablespoons ground cloves _ Peach pickle juice or 
2 tablespoons powdered apple cider 
cinnamon 


Cut rind off ham. Combine dry ingredients and add enough 
juice to make a dough which can be rolled. Cover fat part of ham 
with the dough, put in a cold oven and bake at 325°, about 20 or 25 
minutes per pound—four or five hours for a 15 pound ham—basting 
every 30 minutes. Take dough off and finish with brown sugar or 
any favorite way of browning ham. 


Mrs. M. B. ALEXANDER (Ferdinand Williams) 


Ham Loaf 


114 pounds lean pork, 1 can tomato soup 
cooked and ground 1% cups milk 
1%4 pounds ham, cooked 2 eggs 
and ground 1 cup cracker crumbs 
Pepper 


Combine and put in loaf pan, pour 1 can tomato soup over loaf. 
Bake at 350 ° for 11%4 hours. Serve with mustard sauce. Serves 6. 


Mrs. AprIAN R. Marron (Polly Ficken) 
89 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Hog’s Head Cheese 


“This receipt has been handed down through generations of the 
Huger family and is a favorite with old Charlestonians. It is a best 
seller at the St. Michael’s bazaar. The traditional Christmas and 
New Year's Day breakfast is Hog’s Head Cheese and hominy. It és 
also delicious with crackers.” 


Y, hog’s head Salt to taste 
2 tablespoons allspice Hot pepper, catsup or 
% cup vinegar hot sauce to taste 


Have butcher clean hog’s head. Boil the head in water to cover 
until meat falls off bones. Mince the hog’s head fine, removing all 
small bones. Take water the head was boiled in and add to meat 
until consistency of thin pudding, season and pour in molds. This 
will harden into a jelly which can be sliced. Serves 12 or more. 


Mrs. W. B. ALEXANDER (Ferdinand Williams) 


Fillet of Veal 


4 or 5-pound veal roast cut 2 small onions, chopped fine 
from the middle round Lard 

1 pound white side meat Pepper 
(salt pork) diced Flour 


Tie string around meat using skewers, if necessary, before pre- 
paring. Cut small holes in veal halfway through meat, using small 
paring knife. Fill these holes with bacon, onions, and pepper, 
which have been combined. Repeat process on other side of meat. 
Cover top side with a thick layer of lard. Dredge with flour. Put 
about 34 cup of water in bottom of roaster, after adding meat. 
Cook in 325 degree oven, 25 to 30 minutes per pound. Add more 
water when needed. Baste frequently. A haunch of venison may 
be prepared the same as above. Serves 10. 


Mrs. Davy Hucuenin (Lavinia Inglesby) 


90 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Kidney Stew 


2 veal kidneys, or 8, Seasoning to taste (salt, 

if very small pepper, Worcestershire, 
2 medium sized onions hot sauce, chives, herbs, 
2 rounded tablespoons butter if desired ) 
2 level tablespoons flour 1 jigger wine (sherry or 


burgundy ), optional 


Wash kidneys and simmer very slowly until tender in several 
cups of water with salt and pepper to suit individual taste. A small 
onion, or a piece of one, and a bit of celery can be used, also. The 
kidneys should simmer at least an hour or more. Remove kidneys 
when tender and save the broth. There should be at least two cups 
of broth. Cut up kidneys in small pieces and put aside. Mince the 
onions and sauté a few minutes in one tablespoon of butter, brown- 
ing very, very lightly. Add to the onions the other tablespoon of 
butter and when melted add the cut-up kidneys and sauté together 
but do not let kidneys brown. Dredge lightly with the flour in 
proportion to the amount of liquid, about one tablespoon of flour 
to one cup of broth. Let the onions, kidneys (lightly dredged with 
flour), cook one or two minutes together and add broth (not too 
hot) from the kidneys very slowly so the kidney stew will not lump. 
Cook stew very slowly. Add Worcestershire and hot sauce, minced 
chives and a jigger of cooking sherry, if served as a luncheon or 
supper dish. Delicious with waffles. Serves 4 to 6. 


Miss JANE CurisTrE HAMMOND 


91 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Liver Terrapin 


1 pound veal liver 2 tablespoons browned flour 
1 tablespoon butter 3 hard boiled eggs 
1 teaspoon dry mustard Sherry to taste 


Salt and pepper to taste 
Parboil the liver, keeping the liquor for gravy. Cut liver into 
small pieces and return to saucepan with the liquor. Season with 
salt, pepper, and butter. Mix mustard and flour and add. Chop 
eggs, and add these, along with sherry to taste. Serves 4. 


Mrs. ALEXANDER Martin (Elizabeth Stevens) 


Roast of Lamb, with Anchovies 


1 leg of lamb Wide noodles 

1 small can anchovie: Parsley 

1 can consommé Salt, pepper, butter 
1 can pimientos Garlic 


Have butcher pierce small holes in surface of lamb, as for lard- 
ing. Rub with garlic, lightly salt and pepper and stuff holes with 
chopped anchovies. Sear the lamb in plenty of butter, add con- 
sommé and roast slowly, basting often (300° oven, 30 to 35 minutes 
per pound). Boil noodles, not over 9 minutes, drain, dress in melted 
eae pene with pimiento and parsley and serve around lamb. 

erves 8. 


Mrs. JoseEpH Henry Moore (Sally Horton) 
92 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Baked Lamb Steaks 


1 leg of lamb ’ Y% pint heavy cream 
1 large Bermuda onion Parmesan cheese 


Butter, salt and pepper 


Cut steaks off leg 34 to 1 inch thick. Pepper steaks on both 
sides. Butter bottom of baking dish. Place slice of onion about % 
inch thick on top of each steak. Pour 1 tablespoon heavy cream over 
each onion. Sprinkle heavily with Parmesan cheese. Bake for 40 
minutes in 325° oven. Remove to platter. Add water and salt 
in bottom of pan to make gravy. Add gravy to platter. Serves 8. 


PETER GETHING 
Hobotee 

2 pounds meat 1 dessertspoon sugar 

2, onions Juice of lemon or 2 table- 
Large slice of bread spoons vinegar 

1 cup milk 6-8 almonds, chopped, or 
2 eggs Y% cup coconut 

2 tablespoons curry powder 2 tablespoons cooking oil 


Mince the meat, soak bread in milk and squeeze dry. Fry 
chopped onion in oil and when nicely browned sprinkle in curry 
powder and cook for a few minutes, being careful not to burn. 
Mix all ingredients with minced meat and bread, adding 1 egg. 
Whisk up other egg with milk, and after putting curry mixture 
into greased cups, pour some of this over it, sticking a slice of 
lemon or bay leaf into each little cup. Bake for 30 minutes and 
serve (in cups) with rice and chutney. May be baked in a cas- 
serole and any left over meat may be used instead of fresh. Cook 
in moderate oven. Serves 8. 

Mrs. Ricuarp C. Mutxin (Hasell Townsend) 


93 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. Norman Scott’s Curry 


1 chicken (boiled or baked) 1 can evaporated milk 


2 onions (finely grated ) Y% pound butter 
1 tablespoon (large) 1 clove garlic 
curry powder 4 chicken bouillon cubes 


2 tablespoons flour 


Fry finely grated onion in butter and add the whole clove of 
garlic and remove it when the clove is brown. Add flour, curry, 
then milk. When this begins to thicken, add chicken gravy or broth 
and the bouillon cubes dissolved in 2 cups warm water. Place cut- 
up chicken in the sauce and simmer for at least an hour, thickening 
and thinning sauce at cook’s discretion. Turkey or shrimp may be 
used instead of chicken. A 6-pound chicken serves 8. 


CONDIMENTS 


1 pound of bacon, fried and crumbled in small bits; 1 pint 
chutney; crisp fried onion rings; 4 hard-boiled eggs, with whites 
and yolks put separately through ricer; 1 box grated coconut, 
browned till dry in oven; 1 can lichee nuts, cut in half; chopped pea- 


nuts. Optional: Bombay duck; 4 green peppers cut small, small 
bits of fried banana; and good pickle. 


All these condiments are arranged in small separate dishes and 
the guests serve themselves with their own desired mixture on 
top of mound of boiled rice, which has been liberally covered with 
curry sauce and meat. 


Mrs. WiLL1aM Popuam (Louisa Stoney ) 


94 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Hampton Plantation Smothered Chicken 


Cut chicken in pieces. Place gizzard, neck and tips of wings in 
saucepan. Cover well with water. Add chopped celery, onion and 
salt. Simmer about 20 minutes. Then put grease in frying pan, 
using a good tablespoon or more. When hot, not too hot, add 
chicken, which has been salted and rolled in flour. Cover and cook 
about 25 minutes over medium flame. Turn pieces several times. 
Pour off grease, add the simmered gravy, cover closely and cook 
on very low fire for 5-10 minutes. Serves 4 to 6. 

Miss CaRoLine RUTLEDGE 


Fried Chicken 


1 fryer (11% to 2% lbs.) Y teaspoon salt 
1 cup flour \%4 teaspoon pepper 


Fat for frying 


Dress and disjoint fryer. Chill in ice box overnight, if possible. 
Sift flour and mix with salt and pepper. Put flour mixture in paper 
bag and add several pieces of chicken to this at a time, to coat 
chicken with flour. Have about 2 inches of grease in large hot fry- 
ing pan. When all chicken is in, cover for 5-7 minutes. Uncover 
and turn chicken when underside is golden brown. Cover again 
for 5-7 minutes, then remove top and cook until bottom side is 
brown. Reduce heat and cook 20 minutes longer. Turn chicken 
only once. 


FRIED CHICKEN GRAVY 


Pour off most of the fat, leaving the brown crumbs. Add a 
little flour and brown. Add hot water and stir until smooth and 
thickened. Season with salt and pepper. 

Mrs. Harry Satmons (Rosamond Waring) 


95 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Ida’s Broiled Chicken 


2 to 2%4-pound chicken 2 tablespoons butter. 
Salt, pepper ; 1 tablespoon flour 


Place chicken breast down in shallow covered pan. Dot with 
butter, salt and pepper. Cover. Cook 15 minutes in oven 375-400". 
Remove cover. Reverse chicken. Broil under low light for about 
15 minutes, basting often. If desired, thicken gravy with 1 table- 
spoon flour and ¥% cup stock. This gravy should be a light brown 
and have very good flavor. Serves 4. pies hey 


Mrs. A. T. SMyTueE (Harriott Buist) 


Chicken Hemingway 


2-pound broiler, 2 tablespoons bacon grease 
split in half 2 tablespoons olive oil 
Salt 2 tablespoons lemon juice 
2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons grated onion 
1% cups sherry ~ 1 teaspoon salt ihe 


Boil last 6 ingredients, cool and pour over salted broiler cut 
side up and soak for several hours or overnight. Cook 15 minutes 
in 850° oven, browning slightly, then under broiler flame, basting 
with sauce frequently at all times. Serves 4. ae 

Mrs. JosepH Henry Moore (Sally Horton) *" 


Chicken with Brandy 


1 chicken (cut for frying) rigs heaping teaspoons curry 
% pound butter 2 cupfuls fresh cream — 


4 medium sized diced onions _— 3. ounces brandy or rum” 
Salt and pepper to taste 


Brown onions in butter, add chicken, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper and cook slowly for 35 minutes. Just before serving’remove 
chicken from pan; mix and add cream, spirits and curry, bring to 
boil in same pan and pour over chicken. Serve with rice. Serves 4. 

Mrs. G. Simms McDowetx (Henrietta Phillips) 


96 


CHARLESTON. RECEIPTS 


Faber’s Pilau 


“Samuel Faber, who has always been with our family and of- 
ficiates as doorman at the St. Cecilia Balls, is a superior cook besides 
being a leader among his people, particularly among the farmers of 
Charleston county.” ad 


One 6-or 7-pound rooster 2 No. 2 cans tomatoes 
~ Neck : 1 tablespoon whole black 
Giblets , pepper 
Liver 2 or 3 twigs of thyme 
One large onion, chopped % pound of margarine 
fine 3 cup rice 
2 tablespoons salt 3 tablespoons flour 


Take a six or seven-pound rooster, wash, put in roasting pan on 
top of stove. Cover two-thirds of rooster with hot water. Put neck, 
giblets and liver in water, also. Add onion, salt, thyme and tomatoes 
put through a colander. Cover and boil hard. After one hour, add 
whole black peppers, and margarine. Turn down to simmer. Baste 
and turn fowl occasionally. After 214 hours of cooking, take out 
2¥ cups of liquid, -Put in separate pot, bring to boil, then into that 
washed, unsalted rice and cook. After 3!4 hours cooking, remove 
rooster from roasting pan, thicken liquid in pan with flour, after 
that is thoroughly mixed, return rooster to roasting pan for thorough 
hating before serving. Serve with rice spread on big platter and 
rooster in nest of rice. Serves 10.. When using hens for this pilau, 
cut. down cooking time and do not put in margarine if hens are fat. 


Mrs. ALBERT Simons (Harriet Stoney) 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. S. G. Stoney’s Chicken in Corn 


Y, pound butter 12 ears small tender 
1 jointed frying-size green corn—raw 
chicken Salt and pepper 


Fry the chicken lightly and flavour with pepper and salt. Place 
chicken and part of butter in glass baking dish, and grate the corn 
over it. Put the rest of the butter on the corn with more salt and 
pepper and bake in a slow (300°) oven till a nice brown. Do not © 
let it get too dry. More butter may be added if necessary. Serves 4. 


Mrs. W. S. PopHaM (Louisa Stoney) 


Chicken Tetrazzini 


6 or 8 large mushrooms 1 cup thick cream 

4 tablespoons butter 2 egg yolks 

¥, cup good sherry 5 cups diced cooked chicken 
2 tablespoons flour 1 nine-ounce package 

2 cups hot milk thin spaghetti 

Salt and pepper to taste 1 cup grated Parmesan 
Sprinkling of nutmeg cheese 


Sauté mushrooms in 2 tablespoons butter. Add sherry and cook 
for a few minutes. Make a cream sauce of 2 tablespoons butter 
and 2 tablespoons flour. Rub these together and add hot milk. 
Cook in a double-boiler, stirring constantly until smooth and of a 
good body—about 20 minutes. Season with salt and pepper and 
nutmeg. Beat the yolks of the eggs into the cream and add to the 
sauce. Continue to stir. After 5 minutes, add chicken. Season to 
taste. Add mushrooms. Cook spaghetti. Butter a shallow casserole 
and put the cooked spaghetti in the bottom. Cover with the 
creamed chicken mixture. Sprinkle cheese over top and put under 
broiler until golden brown and bubbling. Serves 6-8. 


Mrs. Henry P. Staats (Juliette Wiles) 
98 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Hunter’s Chicken 


1 fryer, weighing in the 1¥, pounds tomatoes, peeled, 
vicinity of three pounds seeded and chopped 

Cooking oil ¥% to 34 cup dry wine 

2 shallots, thinly sliced, or 2 tablespoons tomato purée 
four tablespoons Salt and pepper to taste 
chopped onion Bay leaf 

¥, clove of garlic, thinly 1 tablespoon each butter 
sliced and minced parsley 


¥Y, pound mushrooms 


Disjoint fryer and brown in hot oil (enough to cover bottom of 
pan). When brown, remove from pan and sauté shallots, garlic and 
mushrooms in the oil, adding more if necessary. Put the chicken 
back in the pan and add remaining ingredients, except butter and 
parsley. Cook covered, over simmering heat, until chicken is tender, 
about 85 minutes. Arrange chicken on platter, add butter and 
parsley to sauce in pan and pour over bird. Serve over rice or plain 
potatoes. Serves 4. 

Mrs. THADDEUS STREET, JR. (Margie Lee) 


Chicken Specialty 


1 large chicken, or 2 frying 1 garlic clove, minced 


chickens, disjointed 1 green pepper, diced 
(4-5 Ibs.) 1 No. 8 can tomatoes 
Seasoned flour 1 cup beer 
Salad oil 1 tablespoon salt 
8 large onions, sliced \% cup seedless raisins 


4 cups cooked rice 


Dust chicken with seasoned flour; brown on all sides in salad 
oil. Remove chicken; add onions, garlic and green pepper to fat 
in pan; cook until soft, but not brown. Return chicken to pan; 
add tomatoes, beer and salt. Cover; simmer 1 hour or until tender. 
Add raisins; cook 10 minutes longer. Serve with paprika or red rice. 


Serves 6-8. 
Mars. Greorcr PALMER (Frances Kirk) 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


My Grandmother’s Chicken Croquettes 


1 quart chopped, cooked 1 tablespoon parsley, chop- 
chicken ed 

Salt \% whole nutmeg, grated 

Black pepper Y, pound butter 

Red pepper to taste 1 tablespoon (rounded) 

1 quart milk cornstarch 

¥Y, onion, sliced very thin 3 tablespoons flour 

Rind of 1 lemon 8 tablespoons milk 

3 eggs 


Bread crumbs 


Put the onion and lemon rind into 1 quart of milk and let it 
come almost to a boil. Break into a bowl the eggs, minus the yolk 
of one, add parsley, nutmeg and red pepper. Into a large saucepan 
put butter, cornstarch, and flour. Cream these. As soon as milk 
comes nearly to a boil, remove onion and lemon rind; pour over 
creamed butter and flour, stirring all the time. Add eggs, parsley, 
and seasoning, and when thickened, add the meat. Taste for season- 
ing, and pour on flat dish to cool. Mold into croquettes using large 
pointed wine-glass and dip into yolk of egg which was put aside. 
Mix with three tablespoons of milk, roll in bread crumbs and fry 
in deep hot lard. Serves 10. 

Miss NATHALIE DoTTERER 


White Fricassee Chicken 


1 large hen 1 bay leaf 
2 hard-boiled eggs 4 tablespoons flour 
1 onion Salt and pepper to taste 


Cut hen as for frying. Place in pot covered with cold water. 
Boil slowly until tender. Make sauce from liquor after removing 
chicken from pot. Add to liquor, flour, eggs (mashed with fork), 
onion chopped fine, bay leaf, and salt and pepper. Place chicken 
on platter, garnishing with a slice of hard-boiled egg on top of each 
piece. Serve sauce separately. Serves 6. 


Mrs. WiLiiaM V. Hutcuinson (Eva Austin) 


100 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Chicken. Ring 


1 hen (5 pounds) 3 chopped hard boiled eggs 
¥% pound almonds Cream sauce 
Salt and pepper to taste 


Boil hen until meat falls from bones, then grind with almonds 
in meat grinder. Add 8 chopped hard boiled eggs and mix with 
enough cream sauce to hold it together. Fill a buttered ring mold 
and steam 1 hour. Serves 8. 

Mrs. JosEpH HeNry Moore (Sally Horton) 


Chicken Mousse with Cream 


1 cup chicken, cut fine Cayenne pepper 

1 cup well seasoned stock 1 tablespoon gelatine 
2 egg yolks, well beaten 1 cup whipped cream 
Celery salt 3 egg whites 


Salt to taste 


Combine first 5 ingredients, bring to a simmer, just enough to 
cook yolks. Cool. Then add gelatine (which has soaked in %4 cup 
cold water and dissolved in a little hot water), the whipped cream, 
eggs (beaten dry) and salt. Beat well. Pour into wet mold to 
congeal. Unmold, serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. Serves 4. 

Mrs. ANDREW JACKSON GEER (Mary Owen) 


Chicken Mousse 


1 large fowl 1 quart chicken stock 
(about 5 pounds) 1 green pepper 

1 small stalk of celery Hot sauce, salt and onion 

2 packages gelatine juice to taste 


Boil fowl until tender. Run meat and celery through smallest 
grinder. Put stock back on stove with onion juice, pepper, (chop- 
ped), salt and hot sauce. Dissolve gelatine in % cup cold water, 
and add to stock while hot. Season highly. Strain stock and mix 
with ground chicken. Put in moulds. Makes 12 individual moulds. 


Mrs. Norwoop Hastie (Sara Simons) 


101 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Jellied Chicken Loaf 


1 rooster or hen Salt, red and black 
(4 or 5 pounds) pepper to taste 
8 hard cooked eggs 1 stalk celery 


2 packages plain gelatine 

Boil chicken in slightly salted water until it is ready to fall apart. 
Take it from pot, and separate white and dark meat. Cut each pile 
of meat into very small bits. Slice 2 eggs, lengthwise. Chop up 
other six, season lightly with salt and pepper. Cut one stalk celery 
into small pieces. Line bottom of loaf pan with sliced eggs. Then 
place one layer of dark meat, one layer of celery, one layer of white 
meat, and one layer of chopped eggs. Repeat this until all in- 
gredients are used. In the meantime, add seasoning, more salt if 
needed, red pepper, a little black pepper to stock, and turn on low 
light until this comes to a boil. Dissolve gelatine in % cup cold 
water. Next, pour boiling stock over gelatine. Then pour this over 
solids in loaf pan, making sure that liquid permeates all layers. 
Press down tightly with large spoon and when cool put in ice box 
four or five hours. Turn out on platter decorated with lettuce, ripe 
or stuffed olives, and strips of red pimientos. Slice and serve on 
lettuce with mayonnaise. Serves 8. 

Mrs. ASHLEY Hatsey (Eleanor Loeb) 


Ham Mousse 


% pound butter 2 eggs 

1 can consommé ¥% cup finely chopped 
1 tablespoon gelatine green pepper 

2 cups ground ham ¥ cup finely chopped 
1 tablespoon mustard celery 


Separate eggs, beat yolks well, put with mustard, consommé 
and butter in double-boiler. Cook slowly until consistency of cus- 
tard. Stir in ham, celery, pepper and gelatine, which has first been 
softened in 4 cup water. Let cool, then fold in stiffly beaten egg 
whites. Put in wet mold. May be garnished with hard-boiled egg 
(sliced), green pepper, etc. Good with either tomato jelly or green 
salad. The basic receipt is good for shrimp or lobster instead of 
ham. Serves 8. 

Mrs. Francis B. Srewart (Katherine Felder) 


102 


—, 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Pressed Chicken 


Two 5-pound hens Several pieces of celery 

1% cups finely chopped 1 small onion (chopped) 
celery 4 tablespoons gelatine 

1 small jar stuffed olives, 1 tablespoon chopped 
chopped green pepper 

X% pepoune ad 6 almonds Salt, pepper and cayenne 

4 chopped hard boiled eggs to taste 

1 quart stock _ 1 lemon (juice) 


Boil hens in water to cover until meat falls off bones, with sev- 
eral pieces of celery and the onion. Boil stock down, skimming off 
fat, until it makes 1 quart of stock. Soak gelatine in 34 cup of 
water and add to hot stock, stir, add lemon juice. Cut chicken up 
coarsely, removing skin and gristle. Mix all ingredients and chill 
in refrigerator in mold. Slice and serve with mayonnaise and let- 
tuce. Serves 12. 

Mrs. JosEPpH HENRY Moore (Sally Horton) 


Jellied Daube Glacé 


3 pounds of round or ¥% clove garlic, bay leaf, 
rump of beef sprig of thyme 
2 pound of veal steak 1 onion, minced fine 
2 well-cleaned pig’s feet 2 whole cloves, pounded 
5% quarts of water ¥Y, cup of cooking sherry 
Salt and pepper to taste 1 tablespoon Dah’s Browning 
(Page 104) 


Put beef (bone removed) in sauce pan, cover with 114 quarts 
cold water, bring to a boil slowly, reduce the heat and keep sim- 
mering 4 hours. In another pan, put veal steaks and pig’s feet with 
four quarts of water, garlic, bay leaf, thyme, onion, cloves, salt and 
pepper. Keep boiling until the meat falls from the bones. Mince 
the meat. Strain the liquor, remove bones, add sherry and brown- 
ing. Place the whole beef, which has been simmering for four 
hours, in a deep bowl. Pour the beef stock and minced meat over 
the beef. Put in a cool place to harden. It will be completely set 
in about six hours. Turn out on platter, slice thin with a sharp knife. 
Delicious with hominy for supper or breakfast. Makes 50 thin slices. 

Mrs. WALTER MEtrTs (Jane Stauffer) 


108 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Veal Paté 


2 pounds lean veal; free 2 baking powder biscuits 
from strings and rolled into crumbs 
chopped fine (or equivalent amount 

1 pound fat salt pork, of coarse cracker 
chopped fine meal ) 

1 (large) can mushrooms; 1 egg, salt, pepper and 
put through chopper, nutmeg to taste 
cut fine : 


Mix thoroughly, mould into oval loaf form, place in baking pan 
(not greased), sprinkle with biscuit crumbs; put a little water, in 
pan. Bake in a moderate oven until cooked through, basting from 
time to time with the water. When necessary, add a little more hot 
water. Venison, beef or other meats may be used instead of the 
veal. Serves 12. a 


FOR THE JELLY 


1 box gelatine 1 tablespoon beef extract 
1 pint cold water Salt | 
1 pint hot water Pepper 


Dissolve gelatine in cold water, let stand for five minutes. Add 
hot water, beef extract, salt and pepper. When paté is cold and jelly 
nearly so, pour jelly over plate and chill. 

Miss Mary A. SPARKMAN 


Dah’s Browning 
(For Making Gravy) 


“Dah is a colloquial expression for a colored nursemaid, who, in 
this case, was Fields Parker.” 

Heat iron skillet very hot, then put in %4 pound white sugar, stir 
constantly over fire until a dark brown. Pour in ¥% pint of boiling 
water and stir until dissolved. Use a long-handled spoon and pour 
water in slowly, as it foams and splashes. Bottle when cold. Keeps 
indefinitely. | ‘toi 
Mrs. W. Turner Locan, Sr. (Louise Lesesne) 


104 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Bread Stuffing 


‘ FOR FISH OR FOWL 


3 cups soft bread crumbs Y% teaspoon salt 

¥% medium onion, well- \% teaspoon pepper 
chop ed \%4 teaspoon poultry 

% cup oi seasoning 


Mix crumbs, onion and seasonings. Add oil and toss well. This 
makes about 314 cups. Oysters may be added, if desired. 
| : Miss MARGARET WALKER 


Turkey Stuffing 


3 pounds chestnuts 1 pound mushrooms 
1% pounds fillet of 1 pan cooked cornbread 
tender veal 2 tablespoons butter 


Boil, peel and mash chestnuts. Cook veal until tender and 
grind. Slice and sauté mushrooms in butter. Mix all these ingre- 
dients with cornbread, using a little milk if necessary. Truffles may 


be added. . Stuffs a 15-pound turkey. 
Mrs. Harrison RANDOLPH (Louise Wabenes) 


Sausage Stuffing for Turkey 


Y2 cup butter 1 pound sausage meat 
1 onion chopped 1 cup milk 
1 pe cracker crumbs 2 tablespoons sherry 


Salt and pepper 


Let onion brown in butter. Add other ingredients and cook a 


few minutes. 
Mrs. KintocH McDowE ut (Annie Bissell) 


105 


CHARLESTON RECEJPTS 


Peanut Dressing 


1 cup shelled, parched 2 tablespoons melted butter 
peanuts (or peanut 1 egg yolk 
butter ) Broth from turkey 

2 cups ground-up Salt and pepper 
cornbread 


Grind peanuts; add crumbs, melted butter and egg yolk. 
Moisten with a little broth made by cooking the giblets and neck. 
Season with salt and pepper. This makes pe stuffing for the 
neck end of a turkey. Variation: 1 lb. ground salted peanuts, with- 
out other ingredients. 

WALKER FAMILY RECEIPT 


(OTHER STUFFINGS IN GAME CHAPTER) 


Steak Sauce 


% pound butter 1 teaspoon paprika 

1 tablespoon catsup Y% teaspoon dry mustard 

1 tablespoon Worcestershire 2 teaspoons vinegar or 
sauce lemon juice 


Place pan over low heat and stir until butter is blended with 
condiments. Be careful not to let curdle. Pour over steak before 
serving. 

Mrs. ApriAN R. Marron (Polly Ficken) 


Béarnaise Sauce 


1 bunch parsley (chopped) 1 teaspoon grated onion 
Small bottle of stuffed 1 cup neyo 


olives (chopped) Touch of garlic 


Mix and serve on seafood or steak. 
Mrs. Exxuiotr Hutson, Jr. (Mary B. Means) 


106 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Egg Sauce for Boiled Fowl 


1 pint chicken stock 1 tablespoon flour 
3 or 4 eggs 1 tablespoon butter 


Hard boil eggs. Rub egg yolks, flour and butter together. Add 
hot stock slowly and let boil very slowly for about five minutes. 
Take from fire, and add whites of eggs mashed with a fork. Serve. 


Mrs. GABRIEL CANNON (Jennie Heyward) 


Tomato and Chicken Sauce 
or Gravy for Fried Chicken 


Trimmings from 2 or 3 Pepper 
chickens (necks, Salt 
backs, gizzards, Bacon grease 
tips of wings) Minced onion 
1 quart can tomatoes Pinch of sugar 


Salt and pepper the trimmings. Dip in flour and fry in bacon 
grease. Mash tomatoes through a colander. Add 1 quart of water, 
onion, pepper, salt, and pinch of sugar. Also add chicken and bacon 
grease and boil slowly for two hours or more. (If no bacon grease 
is on hand and bacon has been fried to obtain same, then add strip 
bacon to above before boiling. ) 


Mrs. THADDEUS STREET (Mary Leize Simons) 


Apple Rings for Garnishing Pork 


Using 1 cup sugar, 34 cup water, % lemon (sliced) and % tea- 
spoon red food coloring to every 3 apples: wash and cut apples cross- 
wise into rings, leaving skin and core. Boil sugar and water till 
syrup spins a thread; add coloring, then fruit. Skim out rings sepa- 
rately after 10 minutes, and serve cold. Yield: 12 rings. 


Mrs. Louis T. PARKER (Josephine Walker) 
107 


e 
0) 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Barbecue Sauce 


% cup Worcestershire sauce 14 cup water 


%4 cup brown sugar 1 large teaspoon chili 
4 cup vinegar powder 


% cup tomato sauce 


Boil until thick, pour over meat ¥, hour before being done, 
basting constantly. 


Mrs. M. B. ALEXANDER (Ferdinand Williams) 


Curry Sauce 


1 onion 1 tablespoon flour 
1 apple 1 tablespoon butter 
1 cup tomato juice 1 tablespoon curry 


1 cup cream 


Chop onion and apple fine, and fry in butter. Add tomato juice 
and cook slowly. Mix flour, butter and curry and add to mixture. 
Then add cream. Strain and serve over shrimp and rice, or chicken 
and rice. Chutney and French fried onions should be served with it 


Miss CAROLINE S. PORCHER © 


Ham Gravy 


3 tablespoons butter 134 cups water 
¥% cup flour Sherry to taste 
2 teaspoons concentrated 

beef extract 


Melt butter. Add flour and extract. Mix thoroughly. Slowly 
add water. Cook until smooth and thick. Add sherry to taste. 


Mrs. Mary H. Bamey (Mary Huguenin) 
108 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Honey Glaze 


1 cup honey - Grated peel of %4 orange 


Mix ingredients and spread on ham about forty-five (45) min- 
utes before removing from oven. 


Jelly Glaze 


1% cups red jelly ¥% cup hot water 


Mix ingredients and spread on ham about thirty (30) minutes 
before removing from oven—Score the ham and stud with cloves. 


Orange Glaze 


1 cup brown sugar Grated peel of one orange 
Juice of one orange Grated peel of %4 lemon 


Mix ingredients and spread on ham about thirty (30) minutes 
before removing from the oven. 


Mrs. Louts Y. Dawson, Jr. (Virginia Walker) 


Raisin Sauce for Ham 


1 cup raisins Y4 teaspoon salt 

1 cup water Pinch of pepper 

5 whole cloves 1 tablespoon butter 

34 cup brown sugar 1 tablespoon vinegar 

1 teaspoon corn starch Y%4 teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce 


Cover raisins with water, add cloves and simmer for ten min- 
utes. Add the sugar, cornstarch, salt and pepper which have al- 
ready been mixed together. Stir until slightly thickened, then add 
the remaining ingredients. 

Mrs. KENNETH Lyncu (Lyall Wannamaker) 


109 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mustard Sauce 


1 tablespoon flour 4 cup powdered mustard 
Y% cup butter ¥% cup sugar 

¥% cup vinegar | 1 bouillon cube 

¥, cup boiling water 2 eggs, well beaten 


Cream together flour and butter. Add vinegar, boiling water, 
mustard, sugar, bouillon cube, eggs. Cook 10 minutes in double 
boiler. Serve hot or cold with ham loaf. 


Mrs. ApriaN R. Marron (Polly Ficken) 


Ham Paste 
1 pound prunes 2 tablespoons ground cloves 
1 cup water 2 teaspoons ginger 
Small can of shredded 2 teaspoons cinnamon 
pineapple (not too wet) 1 tablespoon molasses 
1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon mustard 


Soak prunes in water over night. Take out stones and pour off 
water in morning. Put all ingredients in wooden mixing bow] and 
make a paste. Apply this to the cooked ham after it is skinned. 
Then put in oven for about a half-hour or until nicely glazed. 

Mrs. Witt1aM S. PopHam (Louisa Stoney) 


Stuffed Oranges 


6 oranges ¥% cup shredded coconut 
% cup stewed dates 1 egg white 
¥% cup chopped nuts Y2 cup powdered sugar 


Cut a slice from end of each orange and carefully remove pulp. 
Discard all tough membrane. Clean and chop dates. Mix dates, 
nuts, orange pulp and coconut together. Refill orange shells. Beat 
egg white until stiff, add sugar gradually. Continue beating. Pile 
on top of oranges. Brown. Serve hot. Serve around ham or other 
meat. 


Mrs. Kintoco McDowetu (Annie Bissell ) 


110 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


“One time uh huntuh-man git up soon de mawnin’, load ’e gun, 
en’ gone out fuh hunt ....’E tell ’e wife... “Uh fuh cock me gun, 
en me yeye en me yez.... Den uh fuh sneak. Ef you ebbuh see 
cat creep ‘pun bud, da’ duh me! Uh nebbuh fuh mek no soun’’” 


Unluckily, I can not bear 

To shoot a duck or dove or deer 

Myself; but, when my friends bring game, 
I heartily partake of same, 
And raptly study how to do 

A partridge pie or cooter stew! 


Roast Wild Turkey 


Prepare for roasting, wipe clean with damp cloth. Stuff with 
any desired stuffing. Put strips of fat bacon on the breast. Truss 
and roast uncovered in a moderately slow oven (325-350°) until 
tender, basting frequently. Allow 20-25 minutes per pound for total 
roasting time. To make gravy, remove turkey to a hot platter when 
done, and thicken the liquid in the pan on top of the stove with a 
flour and water mixture (2 tablespoons flour to 1 cup water). 


Mrs. W. W. Humpureys (Martha Lynch) 


Chestnut Stuffing for Wild Turkey 


3 cups chestnuts Cream 
2 tablespoons butter Salt and pepper to taste 
1 cup cracker crumbs 


Cook chestnuts until very tender and put through colander. 
Add butter, salt and pepper, then cracker crumbs. Moisten to de- 
sired consistency with sweet cream. If more dressing is required, 


make up in same proportion. 
Mrs. Kirk Lyncu (Juanita Kirk) 


coal 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Corn Bread Stuffing 


2 cups corn meal 2 eggs 

1 cup flour 1 cup chopped celery 

2 large tablespoons 1 cup chopped onion 
shortening 2 slices toast (crumbled) 

1 teaspoon salt Salt and pepper to taste 

1 teaspoon baking powder 2 cups (approx.) turkey 

1 cup milk stock 


Mix corn meal, flour, shortening, salt, baking powder, milk and 
eggs. Bake at 350° for 34 hour. Crumble bread when cold. Add 
celery, onion, toast, seasonings and moisten with stock to desired 
consistency. 

Mrs. Frank Forp, Jr. (Elizabeth Coker) 


Oyster Mushroom Stuffing 


2 cups grated bread 7% pound mushroom caps, 
crumbs halved and sauté 
34 cup chopped celery 2 teaspoons salt 
leaves ¥ teaspoon paprika 
3 tablespoons diced bacon 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
1 quart oysters, sauce 
cut in pieces 2 tablespoons walnut 
catsu 


Mix ingredients by tossing lightly with a fork: pack loosely in 
cavity. 


Miss Marcaret B. WALKER 


Orange Stuffing for Wild Ducks 


3 cups toasted bread cubes 2 cups diced celery 
1% cups hot water % cup melted butter 
2 teaspoons grated 1 beaten egg 
orange rind ¥2 teaspoon salt, pepper 
2/3 cup orange pulp to taste 


Soak bread cubes in hot water for 15 minutes. Add other in- 
gredients. Mix well and stuff in ducks. 


Mrs. Joun Stmonps (Frances Rees) 


112 


——,_ ———s sd 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Lavington Plantation Roasted Wild Duck 


Prepare ducks for roasting. Stuff with Irish potato dressing or 
any other desired dressing. Dust with flour, salt and pepper and 
place several strips of bacon or thin slices of fat pork over the 
breast. Place in roaster and add one cup of water. Cook uncovered 
in a hot oven (400°) for about one hour. Baste frequently. 


IRISH POTATO DRESSING 


To 1 cup of mashed potato, add 1 tablespoon of finely chopped 
onion, 2 tablespoons of finely chopped celery, salt and pepper. 


Mrs. Davip Mayank (Marion Taber) 


Wild Duck with Mushrooms 


One duck 1 cup fresh mushrooms, 

1 onion, sliced sliced 

Y, cup butter or drippings 2 tablespoons flour 

Salt and pepper ¥ teaspoon powdered thyme 
2 cups water 1 bay leaf 


Prepare and disjoint duck, brown with onion and fat. Add salt 
and pepper and 2 cups water and 1 bay leaf. Cook 114 hours slow- 
ly. Sauté mushrooms, add flour and thyme. Add to duck and 
continue to cook 30 minutes. Serve on chop plate and border with 
wild rice or sausage and rice pilau. 


Mrs. HERBERT RAVENEL Sass (Marion Hutson) 


113 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Wild Duck Roasted 


Method 1: 


Dress, clean, stuff with sliced apple or whole peeled onion. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper, cover breast with two very thin slices 
of fat pork, and truss. Place breast side up in roaster, and bake 
15 to 80 minutes according to size in a very hot oven (500° ) basting 
every 5 minutes with fat from pan. Remove apple or onion. Serve 
with a tart jelly or game sauce made by warming a glass of currant 
jelly in half as much port wine. 


Method 2: 


Ducks may be stuffed as above, or with wild rice dressing made 
by boiling wild rice and seasoning with salt, pepper and chopped 
onion; or any favorite dressing may be used. Salt and pepper the 
outside of the ducks and place them breast side up in a roaster. 
Cover the bottom of the roaster with water and cover tightly. 
Roast at 450° for the first 15 minutes then reduce heat to 350°. 
Baste every 15 minutes with the liquid in the pan. When almost 
tender, remove cover from pan (for last 15 minutes or so )to allow 
skin to brown. 


LAWRENCE A. WALKER 


Mrs. B. A. Hagood’s Quail and Oysters 


Quail | Corn meal 
3 oysters per quail Flour 
Melted butter Butter 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Wipe birds inside and out with damp cloth. Dip oysters in 
melted butter, then in corn meal and place inside bird. Make flour 
and butter into a paste and rub breasts well with the paste. Put 
birds in baking dish with a strip of bacon across each bird. Bake 
30 minutes, basting well with butter. Serve on toast. 


Mrs. James Hacoop (Antoinette Camp) 


114 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. H. C. Mazyck’s Partridge Pie 


12 partridges (doves, ¥% pound salt pork, diced 
snipe, etc.) 2 tablespoons browned 

1 bunch minced parsley flour 

1 onion, chopped fine Butter size of an egg 

3 whole cloves 1 pint potatoes, diced 

Salt and pepper to taste small 


Rich pie crust 


Split birds in half, put in saucepan with about 2 quarts of water. 
When it boils, skim off all scum that rises, then add salt and pepper, 
parsley, onion, cloves and salt pork. Let all boil until tender, using 
care that there be enough water to cover the birds. Thicken with 
flour and let boil up. Stir in butter. Remove from fire and let cool. 
Line sides of a buttered pudding dish with the crust. Lay in birds, 
then some of the potatoes, then birds and so on until the dish is 
full. Pour over the gravy. Put on the top crust with a split cut in 
the center and bake in hot oven 15-20 minutes. Serves 12. 

Mes. Ropert L. Kerr (Louise Mazyck Frierson) 


Deep Fried Quail 


Clean quail thoroughly. Salt and flour each bird then place a 
lump of butter and a few grains of basil in the cavity. Fry in deep 
fat, fast at first until birds are brown all over, then slower for about 
20 minutes. Do not cover. Place on brown paper to drain and 


serve while hot. 
Mrs. Kart Montcomery (Rose Jenkins) 


Roasted Quail 


Clean quail thoroughly. Salt lightly, and place lump of butter 
inside each bird. Rub birds with mixture of flour and butter. 
Place in baking pan and bake in slow oven for about 1 hour, basting 
frequently with a little water, melted butter and sherry wine, to 
which 4 teaspoon of marjoram or tarragon has been added. 


Mrs. Kart Montcomery (Rose Jenkins) 


115 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Halidon Hill Potted Birds 


Wipe birds inside and out with a damp cloth, then stuff lightly. 
salt, pepper and flour birds. Melt about 2% kitchen spoons of lard 
in an iron pot or skillet. Brown birds, then add a little water and 
rook (covered) very slowly on back of stove until tender. Add 
additional water when necessary. 


STUFFING 
(for 6 birds) 


6 slices toasted stale 4 slices breakfast bacon 
bread Salt and pepper to taste 
% small onion, minced 34 cup hot water 


Fry bacon and chip fine. Add onion and cook until golden, 
then add bread, broken into small pieces, salt, pepper and hot 
water. Stir well. 

Mrs. THomas A. HucuENin (Mary Vereen) 


Potted Doves 


6 doves 3 tablespoons Worcestershire 
6 slices bacon 1 tablespoon butter 

1 cup catsup Red pepper or hot sauce 

1 small onion, sliced Salt and pepper 


Steam birds for 20 minutes on top of stove with a little water. 
Then add seasoning and catsup, and lay the bacon on top of the 
birds. Cook covered for about 134 hours or until very tender. Re- 
move cover and brown in oven. 

Mrs. Davip Mayank (Marion Taber) 


Quail in Milk and Celery 


I pint sweet milk 2 slices onion 

% pound butter 1 teaspoon salt 

2 pieces chopped celery 2 teaspoon black pepper 
1 cup sherry 1 dozen quail 


116 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Pour ingredients mixed together over quail. Cover vessel and 
cook slowly 2 hours. Add milk, if necessary. 


Miss Vircinta MITCHELL 


Smothered Marsh Hens 


Parboil eight skinned birds in salt water just long enough to take 
out the blood and keep the shape. Drain and put in deep frying 
pan on top of stove. Add the following gravy: 


2 cups chicken stock or 6 tablespoons of bacon 
1 can chicken soup grease 

6 tablespoons of browned Salt and pepper 
flour 


Cover and cook about 1 hour, then uncover and slip under the 
broiler flame for 15 minutes. 


Mrs. JoHN Laurens (May Rose) 


Marsh Hens 


3 marsh hens 2 onions, sliced 
3 tablespoons shortening or 34 cup flour 
bacon grease 1%4 cups water 
Salt and pepper 


Soak skinned birds in cold salted water from 2 to 8 hours. 
Fry onions in shortening until golden brown. Salt, pepper, and 
flour the birds, then fry them with the onions until they are browned. 
Add water, cover, and let simmer slowly until tender. Stir oc- 
casionally. Serve in the gravy. Serves six. 


Mrs. W. H. BARNWELL (Mary M. Royall) 
117 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Venison 


The loin gives the best roasts or steaks (sirloin or porterhouse). 
The chuck and rump are good for pot roasts and ground meat. 

The round will make good steak unless the animal is particularly 
tough and then it may be used as Swiss steaks or ground up. 

If the leg is small, it may be roasted all in one piece like a leg of 
lamb. 

The shank, neck, flank and spareribs can be best used for soups, 
stews, and ground meat. The neck will be tender if the tendons are 
removed and will make good roast. 

The characteristic venison flavor is concentrated largely in the 
fat and the removal of the bulk of the fat will make it less “gamey.” 


LAWRENCE A. WALKER 


Venison Roast 


1 haunch of venison 1 onion, chopped 
Y% pound of bacon Salt and pepper to taste 


Wash in tepid water, dry thoroughly with cloth. Make dress- 
ing with chopped onion, salt and pepper. Cut slits in meat and 
stuff meat with dressing. Cover with strips of bacon. Use 1 cup 
of hot water, cover and cook until done in slow oven allowing 25 
minutes per pound, basting frequently. 


Mrs. Evtior Hutson, Jr. (Mary B. Means) 


“The Laurels” Roast of Venison 


1 haunch of venison 1 bottle of port wine 
(hung for 4 or 5 days, 1 large jar crabapple 
or in ice box 1 week) jelly, melted 


Cook venison as for rare roast beef. Baste venison while cook- 
ing with sauce made of the wine and jelly. Serve with sauce poured 
over the venison. 


Mrs. Stmons VANDER Horst Warine (Louisa Johnson) 


118 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Venison Cutlets 


2 pounds venison steak Flour 

2 tablespoons butter Salt and pepper 
YZ cup sour cream Celery salt 
Worcestershire sauce Bay leaf 


Cut venison into individual cutlets and roll in well seasoned 
flour. Melt butter in heavy skillet and brown cutlets on both sides 
over medium heat. When nicely browned, pour sour cream over 
cutlets and season with salt and pepper, Worcestershire sauce, celery 
salt and bay leaf. Cover skillet and cook about an hour over low 
heat or until tender. Serves 6-8. 

PETER GETHING 


Venison Meat Loaf 
(For neck, flank and shoulder) 


1 pound ground venison Y% cup dried bread crumbs 
¥% pound ground pork 1 cup milk 
1 egg 1% teaspoons salt 


¥Y, tablespoon minced onion 


After mixing the meats thoroughly, add egg, milk, bread crumbs 
and seasonings. Place in greased pan and bake for | hour in a 
medium oven (850°). Serves 4. 
Mrs. W. W. Humpureys (Martha Lynch) 


Potted Venison 


3 cups cooked venison Red and black pepper and 
( ground ) salt 
1 cup butter or shortening Pan gravy 


1 onion, chopped 

Allow butter to soften and mix well with venison. Add gravy, 
if not sufficiently moist. Add freely, onion and seasoning to taste. 
Mix thoroughly again. Put mixture in a biscuit pan and bake in a 
moderate oven until lightly browned. Allow to cool, then cut into 
squares. Serve with hominy for breakfast. 


Mrs. C, Stuart Dawson (May Elliott Hutson) 


119 


¢ 
in) 


Mrs. W. W. Elliott’s Venison 4 la Blaise 


4 cups chopped venison 1 heaping tablespoon butter 
1 large onion 1 cup tomato catsup 
Salt, black and red pepper 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cut left-over venison into small pieces and put in saucepan 
with finely chopped onion, black and red pepper, salt and butter. 
Add tomato catsup (preferably home made). Let boil slowly until 
sauce is thick. If more seasoning is desired a pinch of ground 
cloves and mace may be added. Serves 6-8. 


Mrs. C. Stuart Dawson (May Elliott Hutson) 


Venison Savory Meat 


From The Centennial Receipt Book by a Southern Lady (Miss 
Joe Waring) published in 1876. 


Chop fine, some cold cooked venison, moisten it well with a 
large spoonful of butter, and the yolk of an egg. Season it with 
thyme, pepper, salt, and a little allspice; beat fine, mix well to- 
gether, put in a pan and bake. 


Venison Balls 


From The Centennial Receipt Book 


He oe the venison in the same way as for savory meat, leaving 
out the butter, and adding a little bacon or cold ham chopped fine 
with an onion. Make into balls; fry in lard. 


Mrs. Dav Maysanx (Marion Taber ) 


120 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. Samuel G. Stoney’s 


“Back River Paté” 


“An old French Huguenot dish which has been in our family 
tor years.” 


Left-over venison Butter (1% the amount of 
the venison used ) 


Coarse black pepper and salt 


Put left-over venison and all scraps from bones through finest 
blade of the meat grinder twice. Add butter. Work pepper into 
this and add salt to taste. Place in pyrex dish and pound down 
with a wooden mallet until it is a solid mass. Cook slowly at about 
325° until a golden brown. Chill. Take out and cut in thin slices. 
Keeps indefinitely in ice box. Serve with hominy or salad. 


Mrs. Wii1aM S. PorHaM (Louisa Stoney) 


Broiled Venison Steak 


Cut haunch of young buck into steaks. Sprinkle with black 
pepper and lightly flour. Dot with butter. Cook under flame or 
in sizzling hot iron frying pan. Sprinkle with salt as you turn. Cook 
10 to 15 minutes. Add enough water to pan for gravy and serve 
sizzling hot with rice, or wild rice. 


Mrs. Lionet Lecce (Dorothy Porcher) 


121 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Opossum 


Opossum should be cleaned as soon as possible after shooting. 
It should be hung for 48 hours and is then ready to be skinned and 
cooked. The meat is light colored and tender. Excess fat may be 
removed, but there is no strong flavor or odor contained in the fat. 


Mrs. W. W. Humpureys (Martha Lynch) 


Roast *possum 


1 opossum 1 cup bread crumbs 
1 onion, chopped 1 hard-boiled egg 
1 tablespoon fat 1 teaspoon salt 
% teaspoon Worcestershire Water 
sauce 


Rub opossum with salt and pepper. Brown onion in fat. Add 
opossum liver and cook until tender. Add bread crumbs, Worcester- 
shire sauce, egg, salt and water. Mix thoroughly and stuff opossum. 
Truss like a fowl. Put in roasting pan with bacon across back and 
pour 1 quart of water into pan. Roast uncovered in moderate oven 
(350°) until tender. (About 2% hours). Serve with sweet 
potatoes. 

R. O. Dion 


Rabbit Pie 


Rabbits should be decapitated and dressed immediately after 
shooting. After skinning, wipe the carcass with a cloth dipped in 
scalding water to remove loose hair. Cut rabbit into serving pieces. 
Soak in equal parts of vinegar and water for 12-24 hours. Drain 
and wipe dry. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and dredge with 
flour. Sear quickly in frying pan. Add water to cover and simmer 
slowly in covered pot for 11%4 hours. Add 2 onions, 2 medium sized 
carrots and 2 or 3 potatoes, all cut in pieces. Cook until vegetables 
are done. Thicken with flour. Cook in a greased baking dish in a 
hot oven until bubbling. Cover with biscuit dough and return to 
oven to bake until dough is done. 


Miss Marcaret B. WALKER 


122 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Hasenpfeffer 


1 rabbit ; 83 cloves 

Vinegar and water 1 bay leaf 

1 sliced onion 1 cup thick sour cream 
Butter Salt and pepper 


Disjoint rabbit, wash and place in crock or jar with enough 
vinegar and water in equal parts to cover. Add onion, a few cloves, 
bay leaf, salt and pepper to taste. Let the meat soak for 2 days. 
Then wipe dry and brown in hot butter, turning frequently. Slowly 
add some of the solution used for soaking the meat to the depth 
of %4 of an inch. Cover tightly and simmer until done (about 30 
minutes). Do not boil. Just before serving stir sour cream into 
sauce. 


Mrs. R. O. Dion (Eleanor Walker) 


Squirrel 


Squirrel is one of the finest and tenderest of all wild meats. | Its 
flavor is mild, rarely gamey. There is no need for soaking, and 
seldom any need for parboiling. They should be cleaned as soon 
as possible after shooting, but skinning may wait until they are to 


be cooked. 


Miss MARGARET WALKER 


Broiled Squirrel 


Clean squirrels and rub with salt and pepper. Brush with fat 
and place on hot broiling rack. Broil 40 minutes, turning frequently 
and basting with drippings every 10 minutes. Serve with gravy 
from drippings and season with | to 2 tablespoons of lemon juice. 

Mrs. W. W. Humpureys (Martha Lynch) 


128 


—Anna Heyward Taylor 


HARVESTING RICE 


rIOMINY & RICE 
CrlgeESE & EGGS 


Man, wen ’e hongry, ‘e teck sum egg or cheese an’ ting an’ eat 
till e' full. But ’ooman boun’ fuh meck wuck an’ trouble. ’E duh 
cook! 


Never call it “Hominy Grits” 

Or you will give Charlestonians fits! 
When it comes from the mill, it’s “grist”; 
After you cook it well, I wist, 

You serve “hominy”! Do not skimp; 
Serve butter with it and lots of shrimp. 


Hominy 


Hominy has long been a favorite in the Carolina Low-Country. 
This corn preparation, boiled with water and salt, was served in al- 
most every household for breakfast—not as a cereal with sugar 
and cream, but mixed with butter and eaten with a relish such as 
bacon, eggs or fish cakes. It was not frequently used for dinner, but 
was often on the supper table, either cooked in the same manner, 
or, more often, in the form of fried hominy, baked hominy or 
“Awendaw.” These concoctions were usually made from the hominy 
left “in the pot” after breakfast and were served for the evening 
meal with ham, shrimp, crab, or the like. Hominy is still used a 
great deal in Charleston and its vicinity, and may be prepared in 
any of the following ways: 


125 


& 
U 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Boiled Hominy 


1 cup grist 4’4 cups water 
1 rounded teaspoon salt 


Formerly, the grist which could be procured in fine, medium, 
or coarse grind, according to preference, had to be washed in sev- 
eral waters. It was often soaked overnight or for several hours in 
a pot and then boiled in that utensil with the same water. When 
it began to cook, it was allowed to boil hard, uncovered, bein 
stirred constantly to keep from scorching. It was then covered an 
cooked on a slower heat, stirred from time to time for the last 4 
hour. The hominy was sometimes beaten up with butter before 
being served. Today, the packaged “grits” may be added directly 
to boiling water and cooked for a shorter time, but should still be 
stirred frequently until done. (Hot water may be added if it be- 
comes thicker than desired.) Serves 4. 


Mrs. Louis T. PARKER (Josephine Walker) 


Pressure Cooked Hominy 


A modern way of cooking an old favorite. 


1 cup grist 1 teaspoon salt 
314 cups water ¥ stick butter or 


margarine (optional) 


This may be started with either hot or cold water. It should be 
allowed to boil hard, uncovered, and stirred frequently for about 5 
minutes. It can then be covered and cooked at lowest possible 
temperature 30 to 45 minutes. When cover is removed, according 
to pressure cooker directions, the hominy should be well stirred 
with a wooden spoon. The butter may be beaten in for extra good- 
ness. When cooked in this way, the necessity of frequent stirring 
during cooking is eliminated and the result is a smooth and creamy 
hominy. Serves 4. 


Mrs. Louis T. Parker (Josephine Walker) 
126 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Baked Hominy 


2 cups cooked hominy, 2/3 cup milk 
preferably hot ¥% stick butter 
2 eggs 


Beat butter into hot hominy (if using cold hominy, melt butter 
before adding). Beat eggs until light, add milk to eggs, then stir 
this mixture into hominy. Put in oven dish and set in pan of water. 
Bake in moderate oven (375°) for about an hour. (A little more 
butter and another egg may be added for extra richness.) Serves 6. 


Mrs. Louis T. PARKER (Josephine Walker) 


Fried Hominy 


1 tall glass cold hominy Y% cup of fine cracker 
1 egg, beaten meal 
1 tablespoon milk or water Y4 teaspoon salt 


4 tablespoons shortening 


Pour cooked hominy, while hot, into a thick tall glass, first 
rinsed in cold water, and put it into refrigerator to chill. When 
cold, turn it out and cut into slices about % inch thick. In mean- 
time, put shortening into heavy skillet to heat. Dip each piece of 
hominy into egg which has been beaten with milk or water, and 
then in cracker meal to which salt has been added. Fry in hot fat 
over medium heat until golden brown on both sides (turning once). 
(This is often served with bacon for breakfast and seldom sweetened 
with syrup in this section of the country). Serves 4 to 6. 


Mrs. Louis T. ParkER (Josephine Walker) 


127 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. Ralph Izard’s “Awendaw” 


14 cups hominy, cooked 1% cups milk 
1 heaping tablespoon butter 34 cup corn meal 
3 eggs Y% teaspoon salt 


While hominy is still hot, add butter and eggs beaten very light. 
Then gradually add milk and when well mixed, add corn meal and 
salt. The batter should be like thick custard. Pour in deep greased 
pan, bake in moderate oven. (375°). Serves 6-8. 


Miss EMMA GAILLARD WITSELL 


Grainy Hominy 
2 cups raw grist Salt to taste 


Wash grist and drain carefully; place in double-boiler, cook for 
2 hours, stirring frequently with a fork. Add salt after 11%4 hours of 
cooking time. When done, hominy should be white and flaky with 
every grain apart. This is an old plantation dish and is served with 
gravy. It is delicious. Serves 4-6. 
Mrs. Stuart Dawson (May Hutson) 


Hominy Surprise 
2 cups grist 1 tablespoon salt 
8 cups water 


Cook grist until thick (about 30 or 40 minutes). Pour into 
large mixing bowl and add: 


2 raw eggs 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
1 cup grated sharp cheese 1 cup milk 
1 tablespoon black pepper 1 tablespoon butter 


Mix thoroughly and pour into baking dish, reserving enough 
cheese to cover top. Sprinkle with paprika. Bake 1 hour, or longer, 
in moderate oven. This is good with cold sliced ham. Serves 8. 

Mrs. Jack W. Smmmons (Irene Robinson) 


128 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Rice 

Charleston was the birthplace of rice in America. The first seed 
was brought to the province of Carolina about 1685. This rice had 
been raised in Madagascar, and a ship sailing from that island put 
into the port of Charles Town when in distress. The captain of 
the ship, John Thurber, made the acquaintance of Dr. Henry Wood- 
ward, one of the leading citizens. He gave Dr. Woodward a small 
quantity of rice, less than a bushel. This started the rice industry, 
which flourished for over two centuries. These seeds were cultivated, 
due to soil and climate, to the highest perfection, and became world 
famous as Carolina Gold Rice. Some of the following receipts have 
been in constant use for over a century and a half, passing from 
generation to generation. 


Southern Rice 


1 cup rice 134 cups water 
(washed thoroughly ) 1 teaspoon salt 


Combine all ingredients and boil hard, uncovered, until water is 
absorbed (about 15 minutes). Steam about 45 minutes: either in 
same pot, tightly covered, and placed over very low heat or put into 
a colander (covered) over boiling water, forking when necessary. 


Serves 4. 
Mrs. Louis T. Parker (Josephine Walker ) 


Steamed Rice 


1% cups rice 1 teaspoon salt 
1% cups water 


Wash 114 cups rice thoroughly in cold water. Place in rice 
steamer or double-boiler. Add enough water to come to top of rice, 
but not cover it. Add salt; cover and cook over hot water for 40 
minutes or until done. After first 80 minutes of cooking, remove 
lid and fluff up rice with a fork so that each grain is allowed to stand 
up and keep its shape. Replace lid and finish cooking. Approximate 
yield: 4 to 6 servings. Serve with meat gravy. If served with fish 
dinner, use egg sauce, capers sauce, or appropriate substitute. 

Mrs. Francis L. Parker (Elizabeth Middleton) 


129 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Red Rice 


1 can tomato paste 2-3 teaspoons sugar 

14-2 cans water 4 strips bacon (cubed) 

2 onions (chopped fine) 8 tablespoons bacon grease 
3 teaspoons salt Good dash of pepper 


2 cups raw rice 


Fry bacon, remove from pan; sauté onions in grease; add toma- 
to paste, water, salt, sugar and pepper. Cook uncovered slowly 
(about 10 minutes) until mixture measures 2 cups, then add it to 
rice in top section of steamer. Add the %4 cup additional grease; 
steam for % hour, then add bacon, crumbled, and stir with a fork. 
Cook 30-45 minutes longer. Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. CHArRLEs Grsgs (Wilmot Welch) 


Okra Pilau (Limping Susan) 


3 or 4 slices of bacon, 1 cup washed rice 
chopped Salt and pepper to taste 
1 pint okra 1 cup water 


Fry bacon with okra cut in rings. When okra is tender, add rice 
and water, salt and pepper. Put in rice steamer and cook until dry 
.. about 1% hours. Serves 4-6. 


Mrs. W. H. Barnwett (Mary Royall) 
Adele’s Tomato Pilau 


2 slices bacon (chipped) 4 teaspoon sugar 
1 onion, chopped fine 1¥% teaspoons salt 
1 (No. 3) can tomatoes % teaspoon black pepper 


2% cups rice 


Cook bacon in frying pan until brown, add onion and sauté 
lightly with pan covered; add tomatoes, sugar, salt, pepper. Cook 
over low heat 4 hour, stirring frequently. Add rice and cook 5-10 
minutes. Transfer to steamer; cook 45 minutes; 10 minutes before 
serving, stir with fork; uncover steamer to dry rice. Serves 8-10. 

Mrs. Rees F. Fraser (Mary Maybank) 


130 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


T omato Okra Pilau 


3 slices bacon 2 quarts water 
1 small onion 1 teaspoon salt 
2 cups stewed tomatoes 2 cups rice 

2 cups thinly sliced okra Pepper to taste 


Cook chopped bacon in deep frying pan until brown; remove 
bacon and fry onion in bacon fat until brown. Add tomatoes and 
okra and let them cook, stirring occasionally; add salt and pepper. 
Cook rice in 2 quarts of water with 1 teaspoon salt added; after 12 
minutes, drain and mix with tomato mixture and put in top of 
double-boiler. Let steam for 15 or 20 minutes; add bacon just 
before serving. Serves 8. 


Mrs. Rivers T. JenKins (Lewis Murchison ) 


| Hopping John 


Hopping John, made of cow peas and rice, is eaten in the 
stateliest of Charleston houses and in the humblest cabins and al- 
ways on New Years Day. “Hoppin John eaten then will bring 
good luck” is an old tradition. 


1 cup raw cow peas 1 cup raw rice 
(dried field peas) 4 slices bacon fried with 
4 cups water 1 medium onion, chopped 


2 teaspoons salt 


Boil peas in salted water until tender. Add peas and 1 cup of 
the pea liquid to rice, bacon with grease and onion. Put in rice 
steamer or double-boiler and cook for 1 hour or until rice is 
thoroughly done. Serves 8. 


Mrs. W. H. Barnwe tu (Mary Royall) 
131 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Curried Rice 
2 cups rice 1 teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons curry powder 134 cups chicken stock 


Pick rice, but do not wash. Place all ingredients in rice steam- 
er for 134 hours, stirring several times with 2-tined fork. For 
chicken stock, canned consommé may be used, but I prefer to 
use stock obtained from boiling 1 pound chicken necks with sea- 
sonings, such as celery, onion, and bay leaf. Bits of chicken may be 
cut from the chicken necks and added to the curried rice after it 
is done. 

To cook in double-boiler instead of rice steamer, use 2 cups of 
chicken stock, other ingredients the same. Serves 8. 


Mrs. MatrHew Bark.ey (Helen Lebby) 


Baked Rice 


4 pint rice 1 pint milk 
1 dessertspoonful butter 1 egg 
1 teaspoon salt 


Cook rice dry and fluffy; put in a quart baking-dish with butter 
and milk, a beaten egg and salt. Bake 14 hour in moderate oven. 
Serves 4. 


Mrs. FRANK Cain (Parham Atkins) 


Fried Rice 


4 slices bacon 1 teaspoon soy sauce 

1 medium onion 2 cups cooked rice 

Fry bacon until crisp in heavy skillet. Remove bacon; fry 
chopped onion until brown. Add rice, stirring constantly until 
browned; add crumbled bacon and season with 1 teaspoon of soy 
sauce. Green peppers, celery, pimiento, or chopped mushrooms 


may be added if desired. Serves 4. 
Mrs. MATTHEW Barxiey (Helen Lebby) 


182 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


_ Rice Croquettes 


1% cups rice A little butter 
Y cup wheat flour 2 eggs 


¥Y teaspoon salt 


To 1% cups of soft boiled rice, add %4 cup wheat flour, 4% 
teaspoon salt, 2 eggs and a little butter. Mix well and mould into 
shapes. Fry in boiling lard. 

From Mrs. S. G. Stoney’s “Carolina Rice Cook Book” 


Rice Omelet 


1 cup rice, boiled in milk 3 eggs 
Y teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons milk 


Cover rice with milk and cook in a steamer until tender. Add 8 
tablespoons of milk and the salt to thoroughly beaten egg yolks. Add 
rice. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Cook until set in a hot but- 
tered frying pan. Lift up with spatula occasionally until moisture 
is taken up. Set in oven for about 5 minutes until mixture rises, 
take out and fold over. Pour cheese sauce over omelet. Serves 4. 


Mrs. Ratpu Mus (Elisabeth Stevens ) 


Rice, Cheese and Olives 


4 cup rice 1 egg, beaten 
Y pound sharp cheese 1% teaspoon salt 
1 cup milk Pepper 

Stuffed olives 


Wash and boil rice; melt cheese in milk, add egg, salt and 
pepper; fold in rice. Put a layer of rice mixture in buttered cas- 
serole, over this put a layer of stuffed olives. Alternate the layers 
of rice and olives and cover with buttered crumbs. Bake in mod- 
erate oven. Serves 4. 


Mrs. Ratpu Mitts (Elisabeth Stevens) 
133 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Picnic Pride Rice 


Delicious for picnics with cold meat or hash. 


11% cups rice 4 cup chopped peanuts 
1 cup water Y% cup chopped raisins 

2 bouillon cubes % cup cut-up celery 

2 tablespoons bacon grease Salt and pepper to taste 


1 teaspoon concentrated beef extract 


Wash rice. Cook in steamer with water in which bouillon cubes 
are dissolved, and bacon grease, salt and pepper added. When half 
cooked, or when rice has soaked up all the water, add peanuts 
(which have been mashed with a rolling pin), raisins and celery. 
A ham skin may be cooked with the rice, if desired. Cook about 
1% hours or until done. Serves 6 eaters - 8 munchers! 


Mrs. Henry Epmunps (Frances Smythe) 


Rice Ring 
Cook 2 cups raw rice according to directions in this chapter or 
cook in a rice steamer. Pack in a greased 1% quart ring mold, 


then set in a pan of hot water and simmer for 10 minutes, or until 
tice is hot. Unmold on a hot platter. Serves 8. 


Mrs. D. A. Geer (Nancy Kollock) 
Browned Rice 


1% cups rice 3% cups water 
2 tablespoons butter 1% teaspoons salt 


¥ teaspoon pepper 
Sort, but do not wash rice. Place dry rice in frying pan with 

butter and stir over moderate fire until golden brown. Add water 
and seasonings and let come to a boil. Put in covered casserole and 
let bake in a 850° oven 80 or 40 minutes, or until dry and ‘ 
Add more butter or ham drippings and dash of paprika and serve 
HOT. Serves 4. 

Mrs. PriotEau Bau (Teresa Daniel) 


184 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Wild Rice Casserole 


1 cup wild rice Salt and pepper to taste 
1 10-ounce can condensed 1 tablespoon butter 
consommeé Y% pound mushrooms 


Wash rice carefully, pick over and remove chaff. Place in a 
broad shallow casserole and cover with can of consommé—let stand 
3 hours. Then bake, covered, in oven (850°F.) for about 45 min- 
utes, adding a little water if rice becomes too dry. Add 1 tablespoon 
butter and 14 pound small mushrooms which have been sauté in a 
little butter. Lightly mix with a fork. Uncover rice at the last and 
let dry out a little; lower oven to 300° F. No crust should form but 
all liquid should be absorbed. This is a delicious buffet supper dish. 
Serves 4. 


Mrs. Henry P. Staats (Juliette Wiles) 


Cheese Croquettes 


2 tablespoons cornstarch 2 tablespoons butter 

1 cup cream 1 cup sharp cheese 

¥Y%, teaspoon mustard 2 eggs (yolks) 

Salt to taste 1 tablespoon Parmesan 
Pinch of cayenne cheese 


Bread crumbs 


Cook cornstarch in hot butter. Add hot cream, gradually. 
When thick and smooth, season with salt, cayenne, mustard and 
grated Parmesan cheese. Then stir in sharp cheese, diced; when 
melted, add yolks. Turn into shallow pan; when cold, cut into small 
oblong pieces. Cover with crumbs, egg, and crumbs and fry in 
smoking hot deep fat. Drain and serve hot. Serves 5. 

Mrs. T. Lapson Wess (Anne Moore) 


185 


© 
U _— 


Cheese Pudding 


10 slices bread 1 teaspoon salt 
Y pound cheese 3 eggs 
2 cups milk Butter 


Take ten slices of bread, crusts removed, butter well and cut 
in cubes. Put in baking dish, alternating with grated cheese, then 
pour over the following: milk, salt, eggs, beaten. Let stand several 
hours before baking. Bake in 275° oven for about 45 minutes. 
Serves 6. 


Mrs. Bacuman S. Smiru (Irene Gaillard) 


Cheese Puffit 


1 cup left-over cooked ham 2 eggs, separated 

1 teaspoon chopped onion Y% teaspoon paprika 
(optional ) Y% teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons lard 1% cups hot milk 

2 slices soft bread 1 tablespoon lard (extra) 
¥%, inch thick 1 tablespoon parsley, 

¥%4 pound yellow cheese minced 


Put ham and onion through grinder. Pan-fry gently 3 minutes 
with the lard. Put in greased baking-dish. Crumble bread (crust 
too) into small pieces; sliver cheese into small thin slices or grate 
coarsely. Combine bread, cheese, beaten egg yolks and heated 
milk; add extra tablespoon lard, salt and paprika. Let stand 20 
minutes or until ready to bake. Add parsley, then fold in stiffly 
beaten egg whites. Pour into baking-dish over ham. Bake in slow 
oven (825°) 45 minutes, or until silver knife inserted in center comes 
out clean. This soufflé does not fall if left in warm oven with door 
open for a short time. Serves about 6. 


Mrs. ArTHur Stoney (Anne Montague) 
136 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


St. Michael’s Alley Cheese Soufflé 


1 tablespoon of flour %4 pound sharp cheese 

1 tablespoon of butter 1 cup milk 

3 eggs ¥Y teaspoon baking powder 
Y teaspoon salt Dash of cayenne 


Make sauce of flour and melted butter; add milk, beaten yolks, 
then cheese. Cook until smooth and thick. Beat whites stiff, adding 
baking powder—mix all together—pour into a well-greased baking 
dish; bake %4 hour in a moderate oven. Serves 4. 


Miss MarGARET FELL Lyon 


Macaroni Pie 


Y% pound macaroni, broken Salt and pepper to taste 

1 heaping tablespoon butter Y, teaspoon dry mustard 

1% cups sharp cheese, cubed 3 eggs 

1 pint milk 

Cook macaroni in rapidly boiling water for ten minutes. Drain. 
Stir butter and cheese—leaving about %4 cup cheese to sprinkle 
over top of pie—into the het macaroni; add salt, pepper, and mus- 
tard. Beat eggs into mixture, add milk and mix well. Put in greased 
baking dish, sprinkle top with cheese and dot with butter. Bake 
in moderate oven. Serves about 6. 


Mrs. Rivers JENKINS (Lewis Murchison) 


Cheese Sauce 


4 tablespoons butter 1% teaspoon salt 
4 tablespoons flour ¥ teaspoon pepper 
1 cup milk Y% cup grated cheese 


Melt butter in top of double-boiler, blend in flour until smooth. 
Add milk gradually and stir until thick. Add other ingredients, stir- 


ring constantly. Serves 4. 
Mrs. Ratpu Mus (Elisabeth Stevens) 


187 


CHARLESTON RECEJPTS 


Basic Omelet 
6 eggs 134 cups milk 
Salt and pepper to taste 


Preheat oven to 350°. Beat yolks of eggs with milk; beat the 
whites and pour yolks and milk into them. Pour into greased heavy 
skillet and cook in oven until firm and golden (12-20 minutes). 
Serves 6. 


Mrs. THoMas N. CarruTHeErs (Ellen Douglas Everett) 


Creamed Stuffed Eggs 


8 hard-boiled eggs 4 tablespoons pecans 

1 cup cooked chicken 1 cup white sauce, made 

4 teaspoon onion juice with chicken broth 
Salt and pepper 


Cut eggs in half, remove yolks and mash. Grind chicken and 
pecans and add to egg yolks with onion juice, salt and pepper, and 
enough white sauce to moisten. Fill egg whites with this mixture; 
place in casserole, stuffed side up, and pour over remaining sauce. 
Bake covered in oven 375°. Serve on toast with mushroom sauce. 


MUSHROOM SAUCE 


Y% cup mushrooms _ 1 cup chicken stock or 
3 tablespoons butter 1 can chicken soup 
2 tablespoons flour Paprika 

% cup cream Salt and pepper 


Slice mushrooms thin and sauté in melted butter. Blend in 
flour. Heat chicken stock and cream and add to mushroom mixture. 
Season with salt, pepper and paprika. Serves 6. 


Mrs. Ratpu Mitts (Elisabeth Stevens) 


138 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Plantation Egg Pie 


4 slices white bread 1 teaspoon salt 

1 quart milk 8 eggs (4 hard-boiled, 

1 teaspoon dry mustard 4 raw) 

1 tablespoon butter Black, cayenne peppers, 
to taste 


Soak the bread in milk and mustard. Add raw eggs and salt. 
Slice hard-boiled eggs; add butter and sliced eggs. Season with 
black pepper and bake in deep pan about 45 minutes at 350°. 
Serves 6-8. 


Mrs. LioneL LeccE (Dorothy Porcher) 


Aunt Julie Gadsden’s Egg Soufflé 


1 cup milk 1 tablespoon butter 
1 tablespoon flour 3-5 eggs 
Salt to taste 


Make a cream sauce of the milk, butter and flour. When cold, 
add the egg yolks then the stiffly beaten egg whites. Salt to taste 
and bake in greased casserole for 10 minutes in 825° oven, then in- 
crease the heat slightly and bake for 20 minutes longer. Serves 4. 

Mrs. T. Witpur THornurLL (Ama Van Noy Smith) 


Eggs with Anchovy 


6 hard-boiled eggs, 1 tablespoon flour 

coarsely chopped 1 cup milk 
2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon anchovy paste 
Pinch of cayenne Salt to taste 


Cook butter and flour together until they bubble. Add milk and 
stir until smooth. Put in anchovy and cayenne and 1 minute later 
the eggs. Simmer 3 minutes and serve on toast. Serves 4. 


Mrs. NaTHANTEL I. BALL, JR. (Anne Barnwell) 


139 


& VEGETABLES 


“T's got okra, tomata an’ sweet puhtatuh! 
Soo-oup! Carrot! Carrot! 

Fresh Cabbage! Veg-e-tubble! 
Veg-e-tubble man!” 


In tangles, wild asparagus grows. 

Its rightful name nobody knows 

Who isn’t Charleston’s son or daughter 
Or never tasted Goose Creek water. 
Mature, it’s tough as chicken wire; 
When young, no spinach can aspire 
To equal tender “Chainey Briar! 


“Chainey Briar” (Wild Asparagus) 


2 bunches of chainey briar 1 tablespoon butter 
Salt and pepper to taste 


Scrape the chainey briar. Put in boiling water, with the salt, 
and cook as fresh asparagus. Serve with drawn butter and pepper. 
Serves 5. 

Mrs. Jonn T. Jenkins (Hess Lebby) 


Asparagus Casserole 


1 can asparagus ¥% cup split blanched 
1 cup grated sharp cheese almonds 

Salt and pepper to taste 1% cups heavy cream 
Worcestershire to taste sauce 


Cut asparagus in thirds, flavor cream sauce with Worcestershire 
sauce, salt and pepper. Put all ingredients together in layers in a 
casserole dish and bake for 40 minutes at 325°. Serves 4. 


Mrs. JosepH Henry Moore (Sally Horton) 


140 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Asparagus and Egg Casserole 
1 large can asparagus spears 14 cup grated Cheddar 


4 hard-boiled eggs— cheese 
sliced Y% cup buttered bread 
1 cup medium white sauce crumbs 


Salt and pepper 


Arrange half of the asparagus in bottom of greased 114 quart 
casserole. Top with slices of egg, pepper, and salt, and sprinkle with 
cheese. Spoon in half of white sauce. Repeat in alternate layers. 
Top with bread crumbs and bake in moderate oven (350°) about 
30 minutes. Serves 6. 


Mrs. ArTHUR W. ALLISON, JR. (Elizabeth Mastin) 


Asparagus au Gratin 
1 pee frozen asparagus 1 cup grated cheese 
5 


ard-boiled eggs— 2 cups white sauce 
deviled Y, teaspoon Worcestershire 
5 slices buttered toast sauce 


Cook asparagus by directions on package. Add cheese and 
Worcestershire sauce to white sauce. Place some asparagus on 
hot buttered toast. Place one half deviled egg on either side of 
the asparagus and cover with cheese sauce. Serves 5. 


Mrs. GERALD THomas (Lottie Johnson) 


Creamed Artichokes 


1 pound of artichokes Salt to taste 
(Jerusalem ) 2 cups of water 
washed and scraped 1 cup cream sauce 


Cook in boiling salted water until tender. Serve with cream 


sauce. Serves 4. 
Mrs. Davi A. Grrr (Nancy Kollock) 


141 


& 
U _ 


New Cut Plantation String Beans 


1 pound stringless beans Salt and pepper 
6 green onions (chopped) 4 slices bacon (minced ) 


Fry bacon crisp in heavy pan, then remove bacon. Cook onions 
in fat. When onions are slightly wilted, add beans, stir well, cook 
one minute. Add one tablespoon water, cover, cook three minutes, 
then uncover. Beans should be bright green. Stir over burner until 
done to suit taste—about two or three minutes. Season to taste with 
salt and pepper, and add crisp bacon just before serving. Serves 4. 


Mrs. RoBeRT GAMBLE (Mildred Franklin) 


String Beans with Almonds 


1 package frozen French-cut 2 tablespoons almonds 
string beans (blanched ) 
1 small can mushrooms 2 tablespoons butter 


Cook string beans by directions on package. Sliver almonds; 
brown in butter, on low light. Add mushrooms and liquor. When 
mushrooms brown, add drained beans. Serve immediately. Serves 
4 to 6. 

Mrs. Geratp THomas (Lottie Johnson) 


Best Beets 
2 cups beets ¥%4 teaspoon salt 
34 tablespoon flour Ya cup cider vinegar 
Y% cup sugar 2 tablespoons butter 


Cook whole beets until tender . . . if baby beets, leave whole, 
otherwise slice. Then cover with the following sauce: Mix flour 
with sugar and salt. Pour on vinegar and stir until dissolved. Let 
come to a boil, stirring constantly. Cook for 5 minutes and add 
butter. Pour the sauce over beets and serve hot. Serves 4. 


Mrs. Henry P. Staats (Juliette Wiles) 
142 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Orange Sauce for Beets 


1 cup orange juice 2 level tablespoons 
¥3 cup sugar cornstarch 
1 tablespoon butter Salt to taste 


Combine sugar, salt and cornstarch, blending well. Add juice 
and butter. Cook in top of double boiler 5 minutes. Serve over 
sliced boiled beets. 

Mrs. ALLAN Dunninc (Isabel Goodloe) 


Corn Pie 
5 ears of corn (grated) 2 tablespoons butter 
1 pint sweet milk 1 tablespoon corn meal 
(heated ) (optional ) 
2 eggs Salt and pepper to taste 


Beat eggs, add to corn. Then add milk, melted butter, salt, 
pepper, and corn meal. Bake in greased casserole in moderate oven 
for 25 minutes. Set pan in boiling water to prevent over-cooking. 
Serves 6. 

Mrs. VAN Noy TuHornuity (Jane Lucas) 


Middleburg Plantation Corn Pudding 


1 pint scraped corn 2 cups cream 
4 well-beaten eggs 1 tablespoon butter 
Pepper and salt to taste 


Bake in buttered dish. Place in pan of hot water 30 to 40 min- 
utes in moderate oven. Serves 6. 


Mrs. CHar.es Gress (Wilmot Welch) 
148 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Corn Fritters 


6 fresh ears of corn 1 scant cup of flour 
grated (or 1 can cream- __1 teaspoon paprika 
style corn) 1 tablespoon sugar 
3 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 


1 teaspoon salt 


Beat egg yolks. Add corn, flour and seasonings, fold in stiffly 
beaten egg whites, then baking powder. Drop in deep hot grease. 


Serves 6. 
Mrs. Krntoch McDowetui (Annie Bissell) 


Boiled Red Cabbage 
2 large heads red cabbage 2-3 apples, peeled and 
s 


2-4 tablespoons butter iced 
1-3 tablespoons molasses 1 onion, grated 
Y cup red wine Juice of one lemon 


Salt to taste 


Melt butter in iron skillet. Add shredded cabbage and molas- 
ses. Brown over slow fire, stirring constantly. Add apples, onion, 
lemon juice and salt. Simmer covered 1 to 2% hours, stirring oc- 
casionally. Add wine after cooking 1% hours. Serve with wild 
duck. Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. T. W. THornniti (Ama Van Noy Smith) 


Cabbage au Gratin 
1 small cabbage, shredded 1 cup cream sauce 
Y% cup grated cheese 


Boil cabbage and drain. Place in casserole in layers; first the 
cabbage, then the cream sauce, then the grated cheese, until all 
are used up. Be sure there is a layer of cheese on the top. Run 
in 400° oven until bubbly, about 15 minutes. Serves 4. 


Mrs. J. S. Srevens (Caroline Simonds) 
144 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Hot Slaw 


1 medium sized cabbage % cup brown sugar 

(2 pounds) Y% teaspoon dry mustard 
6 strips of bacon % cup vinegar 
Y% teaspoon celery seed Y% teaspoon salt 


Shred cabbage as for cole slaw and set aside. Cut bacon in 
pieces and cook to crispness in large frying pan; when done, re- 
move bacon bits, leaving grease. To this add sugar, celery seed, 
mustard, salt, and vinegar. When this mixture is very hot add the 
cabbage, turning it over until well mixed but not cooked. Add 
bacon bits. Serves 4. (Excellent with hot or cold beef). 


Mrs. R. BENTHAM Simons (E. Marion Small) 


Stuffed Cabbage Leaves 


A number of large 2 cups bouillon 
cabbage leaves 1 pound finely chopped 

1 small onion beef 

2% tablespoons fat 1 can tomato soup 

Y% pound of rice Salt and pepper 


Pour boiling water over cabbage leaves, leave 5 minutes then 
drain. Fry beef in fat. Fry finely chopped onion. Boil rice until 
tender, drain. Mix beef, onion, rice, and season with salt and pep- 
per. Put tablespoon of this mixture in each leaf, wrap up like short 
thick sausage. Stew in bouillon until tender. Drain. Place in 
casserole and cover with can of tomato soup and reheat in oven. 
Serves 6. 


Mrs. Joun H. Davis (Elizabeth Malloch) 
145 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Baked Guinea Squash (Eggplant) 


1 large (or 2 medium) Y% cup blanched slivered 
squash almonds 

¥Y teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon chopped onions 

2 eggs Pepper 

2 tablespoons peanut butter Crackers 


Boil squash in salted water until tender. Remove skin, mash 
squash in bowl. Add eggs, salt, pepper, onions, peanut butter and 
almonds. Mix and put in pyrex. Cover with crackers, crushed by 
hand, and some almonds. Bake about 20 minutes in 350° oven. 
Serves 6. 


Mrs. Lionen K. Lecce (Dorothy Porcher) 


Stuffed Eggplant 


1 large eggplant ¥% cup minced ham 
1 tablespoon butter Y onion, minced 
2 tablespoons grated Salt and pepper 


bread crumbs 


Cut eggplant in two. Scrape out inside and put in saucepan 
with minced ham. Cover with water and boil until soft. Drain 
and add crumbs, butter, onion, salt and pepper to taste. Fill each 
half of hull with mixture. Add small lunp of butter and bake 
for 15 minutes, or if preferred, omit ham, using more bread crumbs 
and mixing with beaten yolks of two eggs. Serves 4. 


Mrs. Frank Cain (Parham Atkins) 
146 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Eggplant au Gratin 


4 small eggplants 1 pound sharp cheese 
2 large onions 2 eggs 
Cracker crumbs and butter Salt and pepper 


Peel and boil eggplants in salted water until soft; strain off 
water and mash. Fry sliced onions in butter. Beat eggs. Grate 
cheese, combine ingredients. Salt and pepper to taste. Place in 
greased casserole, cover with crumbs, dot with butter. Bake in 
moderate oven for 45 minutes. Serves 8 to 10. 


Mrs. GeraLp THomas (Lottie Johnson) 


Scalloped Cucumbers 


Several slices of bread Salt 
3 large cucumbers Pepper 
Milk Butter 


Into a buttered baking dish crumble a slice of bread. Add thick 
large slices of cucumber, pepper, salt and butter. Repeat until 
dish is full. Make hole in middle with a knife and pour milk until 
it shows around edge. Sprinkle on top bread crumbs stirred with 
melted butter. Bake 14 hour in moderate oven. Serves 6. 


Mrs. Cuares S. Dwicur (Lucille Lebby) 


Baked Squash 


6 large yellow squash Bread crumbs 

2 slices bacon (fried 2 tablespoons butter 
crisp ) Minced green pepper 

1 onion Salt and pepper 


Cut squash in half lengthwise (Do not remove skin). Boil in 
salted water 10 to 15 minutes, drain, scoop out, leaving 14 inch shell. 
Mash scooped out part and season with chopped onion, minced pep- 
per, salt and pepper. Add crumbled bacon and butter. Fill shells, 
sprinkle with buttered crumbs. Bake 20 minutes at 375°. Serves 6. 


Mrs. GeRALD THomas (Lottie Johnson) 


147 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Charleston Gumbo 


Good on your rice the day there is no gravy. 


1 quart okra ¥% small onion chopped 
1 pint can tomatoes Salt, pepper and 
2 slices of bacon Worcestershire to taste 


Broil bacon, add tomatoes, chopped okra and onion, salt, pepper 
and Worcestershire. Let simmer for two hours. Serves 6. 


Mrs. Joun T. Jenkins (Hess Lebby) 


Gumbo 


1 quart okra 2 large onions 
2 No. 2 cans tomatoes Salt, pepper and thyme 
3 slices bacon to taste 


Grind okra and onions coarsely in meat grinder. Cook bacon 
and remove from pan. Add okra and onions to bacon grease and 
took until all juice is cooked out, then add tomatoes, salt, pepper 
and thyme. Let this simmer for 3 or 4 hours, add a little water if 
necessary. When cooked, serve with rice with bacon crumbled on 
top. Shrimp or seafood of any kind may be added to make a seafood 
gumbo. The seafood should be cooked then added after the gumbo 
is finished. Serves 6. 

Mrs. Cuartes H. Burn (Nina McAdoo) 


Succotash 


This is a very old dish, first served by the Indians to white 
settlers in America. 


Y% cup sieva (or 2 tablespoons butter 
butter) beans 1%4 cups water 
Y% cup raw corn 1 teaspoon salt 


¥ teaspoon pepper 


Boil sieva beans in salted water until almost done, add tender 
taw corn, cut from cob, and cook until both are tender. Drain, add 
butter, seasoning and serve. Serves 4. 

Mrs. Louis T. Parker (Josephine Walker) 


148 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Scalloped Irish Potatoes and Onions 


4 or 5 large potatoes 2 cups milk 
2 large onions Salt and pepper 
4 tablespoons butter 


Into a baking dish put a layer of thin sliced potatoes, salt, 
pepper, and dots of butter. Then add a layer of thin sliced onions. 
Cover these with dots of butter, salt and pepper. Repeat until all 
potatoes and onions are used. Pour enough milk over potatoes and 
onions to cover them. Cook in a moderate oven until potatoes are 
well browned. These proportions may be varied according to the 
size of the casserole. Serves 6. (Cook immediately, so potatoes 
wont darken). 

Mrs. JAck Maysanx (Lavinia Huguenin ) 


Potato Apples 


4 medium Irish potatoes Paprika 
2 egg yolks Salt and pepper to taste 
Cloves Butter to taste 


Shape well seasoned mashed potatoes into small apples, using 
clove in place of stem. Brush one side with egg yolks diluted with 
a little water and dust with paprika. Brown in hot oven and serve 
around sliced meat or ham. 

Miss EuGENIA FROST 


Candied Sweet Potatoes 


3 large sweet potatoes 4 cup water 
1 cup brown sugar 4 tablespoons butter 
6 pieces orange peel Cinnamon 


Boil whole potatoes until tender. Take off skin and slice thin. 
Put in buttered pyrex dish a layer of potatoes sprinkled with sugar 
and cinnamon and butter; when dish is filled sprinkle top layer of 
potatoes with sugar, butter, cinnamon and orange peel. Add water 
and bake until brown and well candied. About 30 minutes at 350°. 
Serves 4. 
Mrs. J. T. Jenkins (Hess Lebby) 


149 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


“Likker Pudding” 


2% cups milk 3 eggs 

3 medium sized yams % stick butter 

2 cups sugar ¥% cup blanched, slivered 
2 teaspoons cinnamon almonds 


¥% cup whiskey or rum 


Put milk into 2-quart casserole. Grate yams, adding to milk as 
you grate to prevent potatoes from turning dark. Beat eggs well 
and add sugar gradually. Add cinnamon and almonds and mix 
well with potatoes. Dot generously with butter and bake in a 800° 
oven for two hours. Just before serving, pour the whiskey or rum 
over the pudding. Delicious with turkey. Serves 6. May be used 
without “likker.” 


Mrs. W. T. Hartman (Betty Blaydes) 


French-Fried Onions 


6 large Spanish or Vegetable fat or lard 
Bermuda onions Flour 
1 pint of milk Salt and pepper 


Peel onions and cut into 1% inch slices, cover rings with milk 
and let stand for thirty minutes. Drain and dredge with flour sea- 
soned with salt and pepper. Put some of the rings in a wire basket, 
shake basket gently to remove any surplus flour. Plunge the basket 
in deep fat 370° F. and let the rings brown delicately, shaking basket 
occasionally to prevent onion rings from sticking together. Lift 
basket out, drain for a minute. Then turn onions into a paper lined 
pan to keep hot, while the remaining onions are fried. Be sure 
the fat is hot before each cooking. Delicious with steak or roast. 


Mrs. WauTer Metts (Jane Stauffer) 


150 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Spinach Soufflé 


1 tablespoon butter 4 egg yolks 
1 tablespoon chopped onions 4 egg whites (beaten) 
2 tablespoons grated cheese 34 teaspoon salt 


11% tablespoons flour Pepper 
1 cup milk 2 cups cooked, chopped 
spinach 


Brown onions in butter. Stir in flour, add milk slowly. Add 
spinach, cheese, seasonings. Heat, remove from fire. Mix in un- 
beaten yolks. Cool, fold in whites. Pour into greased baking dish 
and set dish in pan of water in a moderate oven. Bake until mix- 
ture rises and sets. (about 80 minutes). Serves 8. 


Mrs. Davip Maysank (Marion Taber) 


Spinach Ring 


14 cups cooked, chopped Salt and pepper to taste 


spinach % cup milk 
2 tablespoons butter 3 eggs 
2 tablespoons flour 1 tablespoon grated onion 


Make a white sauce of the butter, flour, and milk. Cook until 
thick, stirring constantly. Pour over the beaten egg yolks. Add 
salt and pepper. Add spinach, grated onion, then cool. Fold in 
the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Grease a ring pan well and set 
in a shallow pan of water to bake in a 850° oven. Bake about 30 
minutes. Turn out carefully on a platter and fill the center with 
creamed eggs, mushrooms or carrots. Serves 8. 


Mrs. Henry P. Staats (Juliette Wiles) 
151 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Spinach Casserole 


1 cup chopped, cooked 1 cup milk 
spinach Salt to taste 
3 tablespoons butter 3 egg yolks, beaten 
3 tablespoons flour 3 egg whites, beaten stiff 


Make cream sauce with butter, flour, milk, and salt. Add 
cooked spinach when cool. Stir in yolks, fold in egg whites; pour 
in buttered casserole. Place in pan of hot water and bake at 350° 
for 80 minutes. Nice served with cheese or mushroom sauce. 
Serves 6. 


Mrs. D. TRowsBRIDGE ELLIMAN (Mildred Leisy) 


Spinach au Gratin 


2 pounds fresh spinach 1% cups sharp cheese 

4 tablespoons melted butter (grated ) 

2 tablespoons flour 4 hard-boiled eggs 
(chopped ) 


Salt and cayenne to taste 


Wash spinach thoroughly, then place moist spinach in a sauce- 
pan without adding additional water. Cover and cook for 7 minutes 
or until tender. Drain well. Mix 2 tablespoons butter and the flour 
and add spinach. Season well with salt and cayenne. Add the 
other tablespoons melted butter, chopped eggs and 1 cup grated 
cheese. Mix well. Put in buttered casserole and cover with Y, 
cup grated cheese. Brown for 25 minutes at 350°. Serves 6. 


Mrs. THomas A. Hucuenin (Mary Vereen) 


152 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Spinach in Cream 


3 pounds young ’tender 1 tablespoon finely grated 
spinach onion 

1 heaping tablespoon butter %4 cup heavy whipping 

1 tablespoon flour cream 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Prepare spinach by washing carefully and discarding all tough 
stems. Throw spinach into a kettle of boiling water and boil 3 
minutes—no longer. Remove from fire and drain; in a heavy pan 
put butter. Shake on it the flour. Blend well. Add spinach, onion, 
cream, salt and pepper. Heat thoroughly and serve immediately. 
This is equally good if thick sour cream is used in place of the whip- 
ping cream. Serves 8. 

Mrs. Henry P. Staats (Juliette Wiles) 


Mushroom Casserole 


¥% cup butter Y% teaspoon cayenne pepper 

1 teaspoon finely minced 1 nutmeg grated 
parsley (medium size) 

1 teaspoon finely minced 1 pinch dried tarragon 
chives 1 cup heavy sweet cream 

1 teaspoon finely minced Salt and pepper to taste 
shallots 18 large mushrooms 

1 teaspoon onion juice (washed and stemmed) 


1 teaspoon salt 


Cream seasonings thoroughly into butter. Spread a part of 
this butter mixture on the bottom of a casserole, arrange on mixture 
18 large mushroom caps, open side up. Dot each cap with some 
of the remaining butter mixture until all is used. Add the cream 
and salt and pepper. Bake in a very hot oven (450°) for 10 min- 
utes. Then serve at once in casserole in which they are cooked. 
Serves 6. 

Mrs. Henry P. Staats (Juliette Wiles) 


158 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Whole Broiled Tomatoes 


6 whole fresh tomatoes 6 teaspoons of brown 
6 teaspoons of vinegar sugar 
6 whole cloves 


Leave skins on tomatoes and cut out center. Put 1 teaspoonful 
of vinegar, and brown sugar, and 1 clove in each (more cloves can 
be added to make tomatoes more spicy). Put tomatoes in a pyrex 
dish and cook for 4 hours in slow oven. They should tur a little 
black. Delicious! Serves 6. 


Mrs. WituiaM B. FRANKLIN (Ellen Fordney) 


Fried Tomatoes 


2 firm tomatoes (medium % cup cracker meal 
size) Y% teaspoon salt 
1 egg 4 teaspoon black pepper 


3 tablespoons shortening 


Slice tomatoes, dip in beaten egg and then in cracker meal to 
which salt and pepper have been added. Cook in hot fat until 
golden brown on both sides, turning once. Serve hot. Serves 4. 


Mrs. Louis T. Parker (Josephine Walker) 


Glazed Tomatoes 


1 No. 2% can tomatoes 1 cup sugar 
(raw tomatoes used Y2 cup vinegar 
originally ) 


Place all in an iron skillet. Bring to a boil. Let simmer for 
one hour stirring occasionally. Serve in vegetable dish. Delicious 
served as an accompaniment to snap beans. Serves 4. 


Mrs. ANDREW GEER (Mary Owen) 
154 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS . 


Tanyah (or Elephant’s Ear) 


Pare the tanyali root as you would a turnip. Cook in saucepan 
with cold water and bring to a boil. Pour the water off, add more 
cold water and a little salt, and cook until tender. Slice and serve 
hot with drawn butter. 

FroM “THE RuraL CAROLINIAN,” 1874 


Green Peas 


1 pint shelled peas 2 tablespoons cream 

1 head of lettuce (shredded) 1 lump butter 

1 sprig of mint and parsley 1 teaspoon sugar 
tied together Y% teaspoon salt 


3 onions (white part of 
green onions sliced fine) 


Cook peas in small amount of water until tender, with the 
above ingredients, except cream and butter. Remove mint and 
parsley. If too much liquid, drain and cook down to % pint. Add 
cream and butter before serving. Serves 4. 


Mrs. JoHN Bennetr (Susan Smythe) 


Carrot Ring Mold 


1 pint scraped, chopped 4 teaspoon salt 
carrots 4 teaspoon black pepper 
2 well beaten eggs 2 level teaspoons sugar 


Y% cup cream 


Boil carrots in sweetened water until tender, then mash as well 
as possible. Add other ingredients and pour into a buttered ring 
mold. Place mold in a pan of hot water and bake in a moderate 
oven about 30 minutes. Can be served with creamed peas adding 
¥Y, cup of finely cut blanched almonds to peas. Serves 6. 


Mrs. Water A. Davis (Genevieve Lockwood) 


155 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Meatless Spaghetti Sauce 


2 large onions 4 teaspoons olive oil 

3 ribs celery 2 leaves basil 

1 pepper 2 pieces parsley 

1 small eggplant 1 No. 2% can of tomatoes 
4, teaspoon sugar 1 can of tomato paste 
Dash of cinnamon Salt and pepper 


Chop above ingredients. Brown onions and pepper in olive oil 
or bacon fat. Add other fresh vegetables and cook down. Add 
tomatoes and tomato paste with an equal amount of water. Season 
with salt and pepper, sugar, cinnamon. Cook for several hours, the 
longer the better. 

J. S. Maruro 


Hollandaise Sauce 


This hollandaise sauce never fails. It may be kept and re- 
heated. 


4 egg yolks 4 teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons lemon juice Dash of cayenne 
¥% cup butter %4 cup boiling water 


Divide the butter into three parts. Beat the egg yolks and 
lemon juice together. Add one piece of butter and cook in a double 
boiler, stirring constantly until the mixture begins to thicken. Re- 
move from stove, add a second piece of butter and stir rapidly. 
Then add the remaining butter and continue to stir until the mix- 
ture is completely blended. Add the salt, cayenne and boiling 
water. Return to double-boiler and stir until the sauce thickens. 
(Note: Cook sauce over small amount of water in bottom of double- 
boiler and do not let the water boil.) 


Mrs. Rap Mutts (Elisabeth Stevens) 


156 


ynwsS saan ‘Yy a0yy— 
soHaTeD esnoy xu AseyMoQ—FAC Add AHL NI GNV'ISI S.MONS 


1 
: 


rlOT BREADS 


“,... gal fetch um one big plate pile’ up wid baddle cake. Him 
pit two-t’ree ‘pun ’e plate en’ kibbuhr’um wid mublassis, en’ staat 
fuh eat.” 


The muffins and rolls melt in your mouth; 

The waffles and biscuits hit the spot. 

Oh, hear the table-call of the South: 

“Take two! And butter them while they're hot!” 


Biscuits 
1 cup all purpose flour 4 teaspoon salt 
1 heaping teaspoon baking 2 heaping tablespoons 
powder shortening 


Y% cup milk (scant) 


Sift flour, then measure, add baking powder and salt, sift into 
bowl. Cut in shortening with a fork until fine meal; add milk 
slowly until right consistency, not too sticky. Take a good forkful 
of dough, roll between floured hands quickly to oblong shape two 
inches long. Prick with fork. Put on ungreased sheet in oven 500° 
F. for 12 to 15 minutes. Makes a dozen biscuits. 


Mrs. JoHN Laurens (May Rose) 


Middleton Gardens’ Benne Seed Biscuits 


2 cups flour ¥% cup roasted benne seed 
¥% cup shortening 1 teaspoon baking 
¥% teaspoon salt powder 


Y% cup cold milk 


Cream shortening and flour, baking powder and salt. Add milk. 
Mix in benne seed. Then cream again thoroughly. Roll out on 
floured bread board very thin. Cut out with small biscuit cutter. 
Bake in 350° oven 7 to 9 min. Sprinkle with salt while hot. 


Mrs. J. J. PrincLE Smita (Heningham Ellett ) 
158 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cheese Daisies 


34 cup butter or oleo % cup Parmesan cheese 
1% cups sharp cheese, Y% teaspoon red pepper 
grated 1 teaspoon salt 


1% cups flour 


Cream shortening and cheese together. Sift pepper and salt 
with flour, and add. Chill for %4 hour before rolling out. Cut with 
small biscuit cutter. Bake at 350° for about 12 minutes. Yield: 24. 


Mrs. WILLIAM ELLison (Ruth Welton) 


Mrs. Alston Pringle’s Beaten Biscuits 


6 cups flour 1 teaspoon sugar 
2/3 cup butter 2 cups cold water 
1 teaspoon salt 


Mix all ingredients and knead for 15 minutes. Then beat with 
puttle for 20 minutes or until dough is soft. Roll 4 inch thick and 
cut with biscuit cutter. Pierce biscuits with a fork. Bake in 325° 
oven for 30 minutes. 

Mrs. C. O. SPARKMAN (Mary Rhett Simonds) 


Grandma’s French Biscuits 


3 cups plain flour Y% cup milk 

Y% cup butter 114 teaspoons baking 
% cup lard powder 

2 eggs Y% tablespoon sug 


Y% teaspoon salt 


Sift flour, baking powder, sugar and salt on a biscuit board. 
Add lard and butter and mash thoroughly together. Beat eggs in 
large bowl, add milk, then stir in flour mixture. Mix to a good con- 
sistency. Knead as little as possible. Roll out on biscuit board and 
cut thick. Then put in baking pan. Bake in hot oven (450°) for 15 
to 17 minutes. Yield: approximately 30. 

Mrs. THomas R. Warne (Laura Witte) 


159 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Loaf Bread 


1 cake yeast 2 teaspoons salt 

% cup lukewarm water 1 tablespoon shortening 
2 cups milk 6 cups sifted enriched 
2 tablespoons sugar flour 


4 tablespoons wheatgerm 


Soften yeast in lukewarm water. Scald milk and cool to luke- 
warm. Add sugar, salt, and two cups flour. Mix thoroughly. Stir 
in softened yeast, then melted shortening. Add remaining flour and 
wheatgerm to form soft dough. Turn out on lightly floured board 
and knead until dough is smooth and satiny (about 8 minutes). 
Form into smooth ball, place in lightly greased bowl, cover and let 
rise in warm place (80° to 85° F.) until doubled in bulk. Punch 
down. Let rise again. When light, punch down and divide into 
equal portions. Shape each into ball, cover well and let rest for five 
to ten minutes. Shape into loaves. Place in greased pans. Cover 
and let rise until doubled. Bake in moderately hot oven (400° to 
425° F.) forty-five minutes. Yield: Two one-pound loaves. 


Mrs. CLeMENts Riptey (Katherine Ball) 


Banana Bread 


1% cups sifted flour % cup shortening 

2 teaspoons baking powder 7% cup sugar 

%4 teaspoon baking soda 2 eggs, well beaten 

¥Y teaspoon salt 1 cup mashed ripe 
bananas 


Sift flour, baking powder, soda and salt. Cream shortenin 
well, add sugar and beat. Add eggs and beat again. Add flour 
and bananas alternately. Cook in bread pan (8% by 4% by 8). 
Moderate oven (850°) about 70 minutes. 


Mrs. Rosert Wirson, Jr. (Gabrielle McColl) 
160 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cinnamon Flip 


A good sweet bread for supper 


1 heaping cup of sugar 1 cup of milk 
1 rounded mixing spoon 1 egg 
of shortening 2 teaspoons baking powder 


1% cups flour 


Cream sugar and shortening; add milk, egg, flour, and baking 
powder. Grease 9 by 12 baking pan; add mixture, smoothed even 
with spatula. Sift a sprinkling of flour lightly over top, dot gen- 
erously with brown sugar, butter and cinnamon. Bake 40 minutes 
in moderate oven. Serve hot or cold. Makes 15 large servings. 


Mrs. WaLTER MEtrTs (Jane Stauffer) 


Church Street Nut Bread 


2 cups flour, sifted 4 tablespoons of shortening 
4 slight teaspoons baking 1 cup sugar 
powder Pinch of salt 
1 egg Y% cup raisins 
1 cup milk YZ cup nuts 


Mix shortening, sugar and egg. Add milk and flour combined 
with baking powder and salt, alternately. Then add raisins and 
nuts. Bake for 45 minutes at 350° in loaf pan. 


Mrs. W. Dewar Gorpon (Phoebe Gadsden) 


Short’nin’ Bread 


1% cups flour ¥Y% cup light brown sugar 
Y% pound butter (soft) 


Cream the butter and sugar. Add the flour and mix thoroughly. 
Roll out quickly (on floured board) about % inch thick. Cut shapes 
with small biscuit cutter. Bake on lightly greased and floured 
shallow pan at 350° for about 20 minutes. 


Mrs. Henry F. Cuurcy (Rea Bryant) 
161 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Crisp Corn Sticks 


1 cup corn meal 4 tablespoons cooking oil 

% teaspoon salt 1 cup buttermilk 

%4 teaspoon soda 2 tablespoons white corn 
syrup 


Sift corn meal, add salt and soda and mix. Add oil, stir. Add 
buttermilk and syrup. Stir well, fill thoroughly greased iron corn- 
stick pans and bake at 400° F., for half hour. Makes 5 sticks, easy 
to add to for large family. _ 

“a Miss Susan LownpeEs ALLSTON 


Corn Bread Muffins 


1 cup corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup bread flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 

2 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons melted butter 
1% cups milk or fat 


2 well-beaten eggs 


__ Sift dry ingredients; beat in separate bowl milk, shortening 
and eggs—add to dry ingredients. Beat lightly until thoroughly 
mixed. Partly fill hot muffin tins. Bake in quick oven 450° for 15 
to 20 minutes. Yield; 214 dozen small muffins. 


Mrs. R. C. Mutuin (Hasell Townsend) 


Com: Bread Sticks 


legg ¥% cup wheat flour 

1% tablespoons shortening 1 cup corn meal 2 
I teaspoon sugar 1 cup clabber. (or sour — 

1 teaspoon salt milk | 


: ) 
1% teaspoons baking powder 
162 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Beat egg, sugar and shortening together. Sift flour and meal 
together with salt and baking powder, then gradually add to other 
mixture, alternating with the clabber. Pour into iron cornstick pans 
and bake at 400° for 20 minutes. Makes one dozen. 


Mrs. CLARENCE STEINHART (Kitty Ford) 


Old Time Hominy Bread 


1 cup cooked hominy 1 large tablespoon 
1 cup raw washed hominy shortening 
1 egg ¥ teaspoon salt 


Combine cooked hominy, egg, shortening, and salt, rubbing 
until smooth. Add raw hominy that has been washed and drained 
fairly dry. Bake in moderate oven (350°) for about 30 minutes or 
until nicely browned. This can be baked either in a sheet or muffin 
rings. Serves 6. 


Miss HENRIETTE WITTE 


Batter (Spoon) Bread 


1 cup corn meal 2 cups milk (apprx.) 

1 teaspoon salt 1 or 2 eggs 

1 heaping teaspoon baking 1 cup boiling water (apprx. ) 
powder 1 tablespoon melted butter 


1 tablespoon melted lard 


Mix meal, salt and baking powder. Add egg, beaten lightly, 
sweet milk and enough boiling water to make a very thin batter, 
then add butter and lard. Put in well-greased baking dish and 
cook 30 to 40 minutes in moderate oven. (375°). Serves 6. 


Mrs. ALEX Mike (Minnie Robertson) 
163 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mother’s Sally Lunn 


2 cups flour (plain) 4 teaspoon salt 
4 cup sugar 2 eggs beaten separately 
3 teaspoons baking powder 34 cup milk 

2 tablespoons melted butter 


Add sugar to beaten egg yolks. Mix other dry ingredients and 
mix alternately with milk into egg and sugar mixture, then add 
melted butter. Beat egg whites until stiff, (not dry), fold in. Bake 
in well greased oblong or square pan or muffin tins. For the loaf 
allow 10 min. in moderate oven (350°). 
Miss IpA RAVENEL 


Flour Muffins 


1 tablespoon lard 2 cups flour, sifted 

1 dessertspoon butter Pinch salt 

1 teaspoon sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 
2 eggs . Milk 


Cream together lard, butter and sugar, add eggs well beaten, 
then dry ingredients, with enough milk to make a stiff batter. Put 
in well-greased muffin tins. Bake in hot oven 425° F. for 20 to 25 
minutes. Yield: 1% dozen. 


Miss EMMA GarLLARD WITSELL 


Bran Muffins 


1 cup bran 2 tablespoons sugar 
2 cups plain flour 3 tablespoons bakin powder 
1 cup buttermilk ¥Y% teaspoon salt 
3 tablespoons shortening 1 cup seedless raisins 
2 eggs 


’ Sift and mix all dry ingredients; then add buttermilk and eggs, 
then shortening. Bake in hot oven 350° F. for about 20 to 30 
minutes. Grease tins well. Makes about 20 small muffins. 


Mrs. R. C. Mutu (Hasell Townsend) 
164 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Hominy or Rice Muflins 
1 cup cold hominy or rice 4 teaspoons baking powder 
1 cup milk 2 eggs 
1 cup flour 4 teaspoon salt 


Soften cereal by adding milk gradually. Add flour, baking 
powder, and salt sifted together. Add eggs, well beaten. Pour 
into greased muffin pans. Bake in quick oven % hour. 


Mrs. ALEX MIKELL (Minnie Robertson) 


Huckleberry Muffins 


2 cups flour 1 BP huckleberries or 

\%4 cup shortening lueberries 

Y% cup sugar ¥Y4 teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 4 teaspoons baking powder 
1 egg 


Sprinkle berries with a little of the flour. Sift remaining flour 
with other dry ingredients. Melt shortening and combine with 
milk and beaten egg yolk. Mix dry and liquid mixtures quickly, 
and fold in stiffly beaten egg white. Bake % hour in 400° oven. 
Yield: 18. 

Mrs. LEGARE WALKER, JR. (Suzannah Dwight) 


Plantation Muffins 


2 cups flour 1 cup cold cooked rice 
4 teaspoons baking powder 2 eggs, well beaten 
¥% teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 


3 tablespoons melted butter 


Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add the rice, stirring well, and 
then combine with the milk and eggs which have been mixed to- 
gether. Lastely, stir in the melted butter. Turn into well-greased 
muffin tins and bake in a quick oven (425°) for 25 minutes. This 
receipt makes 12 muffins. 

Mrs. S. Epwarp Izarp, Jr. (Anne Kirk) 


165 


CHARLESTON. RECEIPTS 


Pancakes 


“My Father's Receipt for Buckwheat Cakes” 


2 cups lukewarm water 1 teaspoon sugar 
2 cups buckwheat flour 1 yeast cake 
(approx. ) 1 tablespoon molasses 
1 tablespoon melted butter 4 teaspoon soda 
1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 


To 1% cups of lukewarm water, add enough sifted buckwheat 
flour to make mixture stiff enough to stir easily. To this, add melted 
butter, salt and sugar, and yeast cake which has been dissolved in 
¥% cup of lukewarm water. When this has been added, the batter 
should be a little softer than muffin batter (it must pour from the 
spoon easily). If too thick, add a little more lukewarm water; if 
too thin, add a little more buckwheat flour. Set aside in warm 
place to rise overnight. In morning, add molasses, soda, and egg. 
Beat thoroughly. Pour by tablespoonful onto hot griddle, turning 
once. Serves 6 to 8. 


Mrs. Atston Ramsey (Hazel Hunter) 


Mrs. Fishburne’s Corn Pancakes 


1 cup yellow corn meal 134 cups milk 

1 cup boiling water Y% cup flour 

2 tablespoons bacon grease 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 egg 


Scald corn meal in boiling water. Add bacon grease and sugar. 
Sift in flour, salt and baking powder alternating this with milk. Add 
the egg. Drop by dessertspoonful on the griddle. Make pancakes 
small. These with honey are something special. Serves 4-6. 


Mrs. Ben Scorr Wuatey (Emily Fishburne) 
166 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Corn Meal Griddle Cakes 


1 cup corn meal 2/3 teaspoon salt 
Boiling water 1 egg 
4 level tablespoons flour 1 cup milk 


3 level teaspoons baking powder 


Scald meal with enough boiling water to cover it. Let stand 
5 minutes, then add flour and salt. Thin to a batter with beaten egg 
and milk, add baking powder last, beating it in well. Cook at once 
on hot, well-greased griddle. Serves 4-6. 


Mrs. T. Lapson Wess (Anne Moore) 


Corn Meal Cakes 


“Fried fish, corn meal cakes, and hot coffee, are coastal tradition.” 


1 cup corn meal ¥Y teaspoon salt 

% cup flour 1 egg 

1 teaspoon sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 
Sweet milk 3 tablespoons shortening 


Red pepper to taste 


Sift dry ingredients. Add egg and stir in well. Melt shorten- 
ing and add. Use enough sweet milk to make a soft batter. Pour 
off most of the fat in which the fish was fried, then fry cakes in 
same pan. Serve with plenty of butter. Serves 4. 


Mrs. J. Ross HANAHAN, JR. (Muriel Viglini) 
167 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Hush Puppies 


“This name originated around the campfire when they were 
tossed to the hounds to keep them quiet.” 


2 cups corn meal 2 tablespoons flour 
1 teaspoon soda 1 tablespoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon salt 1 egg 
6 tablespoons chopped 2 cups buttermilk 
onion Red pepper, to taste 


Mix all dry ingredients, add chopped onion; then milk and egg, 
beaten together. Drop by small spoonfuls into boiling deep fat. 
They will float when done. Drain on brown paper. Serves 8. 


Mrs. Tarr WALKER (Mary Taft) 


Pop-Overs 


1% cups flour 2 whole eggs 
¥Y teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons melted butter 
1% cups milk or lard 


Put flour and salt in bowl. Add milk and eggs. Beat with a 
rotary beater for 8 minutes. Add melted butter and stir. Put in 
well-greased muffin tins. Have tins hot. Bake in hot oven 350° 
for 40 minutes. Make 12 muffins. 


CHEESE-POPS 


Mix ¥% cup grated sharp cheese with % teaspoon salt, few 
grains cayenne. Put small amount of batter in each pan, cover 
with cheese, then with batter. 


Mrs. Wiu1aM Exuison (Ruth Welton) 
168 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Plantation Puffs 


2 cups four. Milk 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

2 rounded teaspoons 1 tablespoon melted butter 
baking powder 1 egg 


Sift dry ingredients together, add egg and enough milk to make 
a thick batter. Add melted butter, and drop by spoonfuls into 
boiling hot shortening. Cook until brown and done in center. 
Serve hot, sprinkled with powdered sugar. Serves 6—maybel! De- 
licious for Sunday breakfast. 


Mrs. Lione K. Lecce (Dorothy H. Porcher) 


Light Flour Puffs for Breakfast 


1 cup sifted flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup milk Small amount of salt 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon melted butter 
or lard 


Put baking powder and salt in flour before sifting. Beat eggs 
separately, mix all together, add shortening just before baking in 
small fancy hot greased pans. Bake as quickly as possible in a hot 
oven, 450°. Serves 4. 

Mrs. FRANK Cain, Sr. (Parham Atkins) 


Puffit 


1 egg (separated) 1 cup sweet milk 
1 tablespoon white sugar 2 heaping teaspoons 
1 tablespoon melted butter baking powder 


1 pint sifted flour 


Beat egg yolk, add sugar, melted butter. Add flour and baking 
powder alternately with milk, then egg white beaten stiff. Put in 
greased pan; bake at 450° F. for 20 minutes. Serves 6. 


Miss FRANCES CANNON 
169 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Rolls 


1 yeast cake 1 egg 
1% cups milk 1 teaspoon salt 
4 cups flour, sifted 1 tablespoon sugar 


4 level teaspoons of shortening 


Soak yeast cake in lukewarm milk for 10 minutes, add all other 
ingredients, stirring mixture into soft dough. (Add more milk if 
needed). Let rise until mixture has doubled in bulk (about 2 
hours). Knead or stir well, shape into rolls and place in well- 
greased pan. Let rise until rolls have doubled in bulk. (About one 
hour) . Bake in moderate oven for 20-25 minutes. Yield: 24 rolls. 


Mrs. Hampton Locan, Jr. (Virginia W. Watson) 


Refrigerator Rolls 


2 yeast cakes 3 teaspoons salt 
1 cup lukewarm water 2 cups mashed potatoes 
1% cups shortening 2 cups potato water 
1¥% cups sugar 3 eggs 

Flour 


Dissolve yeast in lukewarm water. Add the shortening, sugar, 
salt, and mashed potatoes to hot potato water. When cold add yeast 
and eggs. Sift in enough flour to make a stiff dough. Turn out on 
slightly floured board and knead well. Put into greased bowl and 
put in refrigerator and cover tightly. This dough will keep in the 
refrigerator a week or more. Yield: 30 rolls. 


Mrs. T. Lapson Wess, Jr. (Anne Moore) 
170 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Magic Butter Rolls 


3 cups bread flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

1 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 

Y% cup butter or oleo 1 teaspoon vanilla 

4 cup evaporated milk 1 cup chopped nuts and 
% cup hot water 4 cup sugar 


2 cakes yeast (or packages) 


To 1% cups sifted flour add salt and butter, combining as for 
pastry. Combine milk and hot water. When lukewarm put in 
east and 1 tablespoon sugar. Soak until yeast dissolves, then 
lend and stir into first mixture. Beat smooth. Cover and let 
stand 20 minutes. Add eggs, beating vigorously. Beat in vanilla 
and remaining 114 cups flour. Tie the dough into a square of 
cheesecloth, loosely, and drop it into a pail of cool water (70° to 
80° F.). 


In about an hour, the dough will rise to the top of the water. 
When it does, remove it from the pail and turn out onto a platter. 
Cut off pieces the size of an egg, using a tablespoon, and roll each 
one in the %4 cup sugar mixed with the nuts. Twist each piece 
into a figure 8 and place on a greased cookie sheet. Let stand 5 
minutes; then bake in 425° oven 10 to 15 minutes. 


Mrs. M. L. McCrat (Ena Mae Black) 


Egegless Waffles 


2 level cups sifted plain 1 tablespoon sugar 
flour 2 rounded tablespoons 

4 teaspoons baking powder shortening 

1 teaspoon salt Mi 


Cut shortening into flour and other ingredients well. Add 
enough milk to make a thin batter. Serves 4-6. 


Mrs. D. S. McAuIsTER (Dorothy Mitchell) 


171 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Crisp Waffles 


These crisp waffles of the days before the War delighted the 
people of “Look Back to Glory.” 


¥% cup cooked hominy 114 cups sifted flour 

1 heaping teaspoon 1 heaping teaspoon baking 
shortening powder 

¥% cup milk ¥Y% level teaspoon salt 

4 cup water, or more 1 level teaspoon sugar 


Stir shortening into hot hominy, add liquids. Then add flour, 
baking powder, salt and sugar. The batter should be the consistency 
of thin cream. Grease iron only the first time. Waffles should be 
wafer thin. Yield: 5 waffles. 


Mrs. HERBERT RAVENEL Sass (Marion Hutson) 


Waffles 


3 cups flour, sifted 2 heaping tablespoons 
4 teaspoons baking powder butter, melted 

2 teaspoons salt 1 egg (separated) 

¥4 tablespoon sugar Milk 


2 heaping tablespoons shortening (melted) 


Sift flour, baking powder, sugar and salt together. Add butter, 
shortening and egg yolk, then add enough milk to make a thin batter 
and beat for 5 minutes. Add beaten egg white last. Serves 6-8. 


Mrs. Cuartes S. Dwicut (Lucille Lebby) 
172 


. Salaps & 


Salad? Da’ w’en dey teck grass an’ ting an’ put fancy dress on 
um lukkuh gal gwine tuh chu’ch. 


Defiant men, who stubbornly refuse to eat your salad, 

Reflect! The lack of vitamins will make you thin and pallid! 
The Charleston Navy Yard is full of lusty sailor-men 

Who demonstrate their bursting health and make you think again 
Of how Popeye, the Sailor-man, achieved his vim and vigor. 
‘Twas salad greens that amplified his muscles and his figger! 


Fiddler’s Green Stuffed Avocados 


(Good as First Course) 


Cut avocados lengthwise, leaving skin on. Remove seed, fill 
with small creek shrimp or crab meat mixed with sauce made of: 


¥% chili sauce Dash of lemon juice 
73 mayonnaise Capers (if desired) 


Mrs. Joun P. Frost (Laura Green) 


“Crowded House” Cucumber Salad 


“This receipt was brought home to Charleston from Hollywood, 
where it is a favorite with the movie colony.” 


2 tender cucumbers, peeled § 2 tablespoons lemon juice 


and cut in paper- ¥Y% teaspoon salt 
thin slices Y% teaspoon sugar 
4 cup sour cream Dash of cayenne pepper 


Combine and chill well. Serves 4-6. 
Mrs. CLEMENTS Riptey (Katharine Ball) 


173 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


John Dent’s Cole Slaw 


“John Dent was Mr. Augustine Smythe’s body servant during 
the War.” 


For a small head of cabbage: 


1 tablespoon butter (full) 1 or 2 eggs 

3 tablespoons vinegar 1 teaspoon dry mustard 
1 teaspoon salt Black and red pepper, 
1 teaspoon celery seed to taste 


Put butter, vinegar, and seasoning in same pan on fire. Beat up 
eggs until light. Add boiling vinegar. Stir until thick. Add celery 
seed when off fire. Serves 6. 

Mrs. JoHN BENNETT (Susan Smythe) 


Tossed Green Salad 


2 heads of lettuce 3 tomatoes, diced 
¥% pound spinach 1 alligator pear 
1 jar artichoke hearts French dressing 


Be sure to dry lettuce and spinach thoroughly. Add other in- 
gredients and toss with French dressing. Serves 6. 


Mrs. I. Mayo Reap (Posey Myers) 


Crab Meat Salad 


1 pound crab meat 2 hard-cooked eggs, 

1 cup celery, diced diced 

¥% teaspoon pepper Y% cup mayonnaise or 
Lettuce salad dressing 

1 green pepper, chopped Y% teaspoon salt 


Remove any shell from the crab meat. Combine all the in- 
gredients and serve on lettuce. Shrimp may be used instead of 
crab meat. Serves 6. 


Miss ExvrzaBeTH R. WILLIAMS 


174 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Caesar Salad 


_(Charleston’s Adaptation) 


1 head of lettuce, pulled Tin anchovy fillets, cut in 
1 head of romaine— small pieces 
cut in 2” pieces Y% cup of Parmesan 
2 eggs, raw cheese, more if desired 
CROUTONS 


Previously made—from three slices of bread (preferably 
French) cut in cubes and fried in olive or vegetable oil with 2 
cloves of garlic, split. Drain on brown paper until crisp. 


Juice of % lemon Tarragon vinegar and olive 
Cracked fresh black pepper oil (enough to coat 
(lots and lots) leaves well but leave 
Salt--to taste no excess in bottom 
(remember, anchovies of bowl) 
are salty) 


In a salad bowl rubbed with garlic, toss the above. I sprinkle 
the cheese, salt and pepper through the salad as I toss, so that it 
doesn’t concentrate on a few leaves. This salad should be made 
to the maker’s taste, but it should be very rich and highly seasoned. 
I personally like more cheese. Add croutons just before serving. 
Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. Joun McGowan (Elizabeth Calvin) 


Cream Cheese Aspic 


1 can tomato soup 1 package gelatine 
Y% can water 1 cup celery, green pepper, 
1 (3 oz.) pkg. cream cheese and nuts 


¥% of a small onion, grated 


Boil soup and water. Soak gelatine in cold water. When soup 
boils, stir in cream cheese until all is melted. Add gelatine and stir 
until melted. Pour into salad mold. When cool, add vegetables. 
Serves 4. 

Mrs. THEoporE J. Srmons (Laura Douglas) 


175 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cheese Aspic with Curry Dressing 
2 (3 oz.) pkgs. cream cheese 4% cup sharp cheese 


Y% cup cream or milk (grated ) 

34 tablespoon gelatine 1 cup whipped cream 
soaked in 1 tablespoon Salt and paprika 
cold water 


Rub the cream cheese smooth, moistening with the cream or 
milk, in which the gelatine has been dissolved. Add the cheese 
and whipped cream. Season with salt and paprika. (Dressing 
listed at end of chapter.) Serves 6. 

Mrs. R. S. CatucarT (Katherine Morrow) 


Grapefruit Salad 


1 (No. 2) can grapefruit 1 cup almonds 

1 (No. 2) can white cherries (blanched and chopped 
(seeded ) coarsely ) 

1 (No. 2) can sliced pine- 2 envelopes gelatine 
apple dissolved in % cup 

1 lemon (juice) of cold water 

Salt 


Drain off all juices and let them come to boil. Add gelatine 
and juice of one lemon, add fruit and almonds. Salt to taste. 
Pour into molds and let harden. Serve on lettuce with mayonnaise. 
Serves 6. 

Mrs. EvizabeTH HANAHAN (Elizabeth B. Lucas) 


Cucumber Jelly 


4 large cucumbers Y% cup water 

4 tablespoons of vinegar Dash cayenne pepper 
¥ teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon grated onion 
4 tablespoons gelatine 2 cups boiling water 


2 tablespoons lemon juice 
Peel, remove seeds and grate cucumbers. Soak gelatine in small 
amount of water; when soft, add boiling water; then vinegar and 
lemon juice; then the cucumbers and seasoning. Put in ice box to 
jell. Serves 8. 


Mrs. A. T. S. Stongy (Loulie Jenkins) 
176 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Jellied Cucumber Salad 


3 or 4 cucumbers 3 (3 ounce) packages 

% cup vinegar cream cheese 

Sugar to taste 2 tablespoons gelatine 

34 teaspoon salt % cup cold water 

1 envelope gelatine 1 can pimiento, chopped 
1 cup cold water 1 cup chopped nuts 

1 cup boiling water Green vegetable coloring 
Cream to soften cheese Salt and pepper to taste 


Peel and grate cucumbers. Strain and add vinegar and sugar to 
taste. Add salt, then gelatine dissolved in 1 cup cold water and 1 
cup boiling water (or 1 pint liquid). Color with green coloring 
and pour in mold. Let partly jell for 14 hour. Mix cream cheese, 
cream, 2 tablespoons gelatine dissolved in 14 cup cold water (dis- 
solved over hot water ), pimientos, chopped nuts and salt and pepper 
to taste. After cucumber part has jellied put this mixture on top 
and let stand overnight to mold. Serve with mayonnaise and let- 
tuce. This serves 12. The first half may also be made with lime 
gelatine, vinegar added. Given me by Kitty Cathcart Hamm. 


Mrs. LioneL K. Lecce (Dorothy H. Porcher) 


Tomato Aspic 


2 envelopes gelatine 2 cans tomato juice 

Few bay leaves (small size) 

6 whole pepper corns 2 or 3 ribs celery 

1 large onion, sliced 2 teaspoons tarragon vinegar 
Salt to taste 


Soak gelatine in 14 cup cold water. Put other ingredients in 
saucepan to boil and simmer slowly for fifteen minutes, which will 
reduce the juice to a pint. Add gelatine and vinegar. Strain, put in 
tin or glass mold. I always wipe out any mold with salad oil, makes 
it much easier to turn out. Serves 4. 


Mrs. Francis B. Stewart (Katherine Felder) 
177 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Asparagus Mousseline 


! can asparagus tips 2 sprigs parsley 

Y rib celery 2 small onions 

1 cup consommé 4 slices carrot 

1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon gelatine 
Y teaspoon paprika % cup cold water 


1 cup cream (whipped stiff) 

Line small molds with top half of tips. Cook together for 15 
minutes remainder of asparagus, celery, consommé, parsley, onion 
and carrot. Put all through sieve, making 1 cup liquid. Add salt, 
paprika and gelatine which has been soaked in cold water and dis- 
solved over heat. Put mixture on ice to cool. When it begins 
to set, gently but thoroughly, stir in whipped cream. Pour into 
molds over tips. Set to congeal. Unmold and serve on lettuce 
with mayonnaise. Serves 6. 

Mrs. James Hacoop (Antoinette Camp) 


Vegetable Salad 


6 potatoes 2 slices cooked ham or 

6 beets 1 can deviled ham 

5 carrots 1 teaspoon mustard (p. 281) 
1 large onion Y% pint mayonnaise 


Cut up boiled potatoes and beets. Grind raw carrots and onicn 
through fine meat chopper. Grind ham (if slices are used). Mix 
prepared mustard with mayonnaise and thoroughly mix through 
salad. Add all together, and pour into mold. Serve ice cold. 
Serves 8-10. 

Mrs. Stmons VanpeR Horst Warinc (Louisa Johnson) 


Ginger Ale Fruit Salad 


1 package lemon gelatine 1% cups ginger ale 
Y% cup hot water ¥2 cup chopped pecans 


1 (No. 2) can fruit cocktail 
Dissolve gelatine in hot water. Add fruit cocktail (without 


juice), ginger ale, and pecans to gelatine. Pour into mold. A dash 
of ginger adds to the flavor. Serves 5. 


Mrs. Henry J. Mann (Florence Hossley ) 
178 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Bing Cherry Mold 


One No. 2 can bing 1 cup port wine 
cherries 1 envelope gelatine 
1 package cherry gelatine 1 (3 oz.) pkg. cream cheese 
Cream 


Heat one cup cherry juice and the port. Pour remaining cherry 
juice over plain gelatine. Put both gelatines together and dissolve 
in the hot cherry juice and port. Stir and mix together. Add 
cherries that have been cut in half and pitted. Put in ring mold. 
Serve with cream cheese that has been softened with cream. Serves 
6. 

Mrs. Cuartes Paut III (Selby Fechtig) 


Aunt Julia’s Molded Salad 


1 package lemon gelatine Y% cup chopped nuts 
1 tablespoon vinegar 1 cup chopped cucumber 
1 cup hot water 1 cup celery (diced fine) 


Dissolve gelatine in hot water. Add vinegar. Allow to cool 
and then add nuts, cucumber and celery. Mold. Serves 8. 
Mrs. Cuartes Lyon (Leila Storm Jones) 


Frozen Heavenly Hash 


1 can shredded pineapple ¥, pound almonds that have 
Y pound marshmallows, cut been blanched and cut 
into quarters with scissors into 


long slender slips. 


This mixture is allowed to stand in refrigerator overnight. 


Next morning a dressing is made with the yolks of 4 eggs, 4 
tablespoons of sugar and 2 tablespoons of vinegar mixed together 
in a double boiler and cooked until the mixture is thick and smooth. 
This dressing is added to the above salad mixture and ¥% pint of 
heavy sweet cream is whipped and folded in. The final mixture is 
turned into a mold and frozen 4 hours. Serves 6. 

Miss Eva BLACKEMER 


179 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mayonnaise 


“A French receipt which came into our family in the Eighteen 
Seventies.” 


1 egg yolk-raw 1 cup olive oil 
1 egg yolk—hard-boiled 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
and chilled 4 teaspoon salt 
1 egg Re Era 
and chopped fine 


Combine yolk of raw egg and yolk of hard-boiled egg. Add 
salt and lemon juice. Whip with a fork. Add olive oil, a teaspoon 
at a time, whipping meantime and being careful not to curdle 
mixture. Add chopped white of egg. Yield: 1 pint. 


Mrs. CLEMENTS Ripey (Katherine Ball) 


Bahamian Salad Dressing 


4 tablespoon salt ¥% tablespoon mustard 

34 tablespoon sugar (page 281) 

2% tablespoons melted 1 egg, slightly beaten 
butter 34 cup cream 


Mix the ingredients in the order given (reading across). Cook 
over boiling water stirring all the time until it thickens. Then strain, 
if necessary, and cool before mixing it on salad or cole slaw. This 
is very good served with hearts of artichoke salad. 

Mrs. Francis J. Petzer (Mary Randolph) 


Curry Dressing 


34 teaspoon salt ¥%4 teaspoon pepper 
74 teaspoon curry powder 5 tablespoons olive oil 


3 tablespoons vinegar 


Mix ingredients in order given and beat until well blended. 
Mrs. R. S. Carucart (Katherine Morrow) 


180 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Dressing for Grapefruit Salad 


1 cup catsup 1 cup pecans 
1 cup onions, (small 1 cup salad oil 
pickled pearl onions Y% cup parsley 
are best) 1 cup hard-boiled egg 
Salt and pepper 


Cut onions fine and chop parsley with hard-boiled egg and 
pecans. Mix with other ingredients, season with salt and pepper 
and serve on grapefruit sections with lettuce. 


Mrs. M. BisHop ALEXANDER (Ferdinand Williams) 


Minute Egg Dressing 


1¥% slices bread ™% teaspoon salt—to taste 
1 egg ¥% tablespoon butter or 
Y% cup olive or salad margarine 

oi 1 clove garlic 
\%4 teaspoon red pepper— 34 cup grated Italian 

to taste cheese,—Parmesan 


1 tablespoon vinegar (approx. ) 


Cut bread into tiny cubes. Place butter in iron frying pan over 
lowest heat. Add bread and cook until crisp, stirring occasionally 
to prevent burning. Put egg into bowl, mince garlic and add. Beat 
well with rotary beater. Add oil, a little at a time, and continue 
beating until mixture begins to thicken. (In order to get the mix- 
ture to thicken, it may be necessary to use a little less or a little 
more than % cup oil). Add cheese, red pepper and salt. Beat 
well. Add vinegar. Beat well. Just before serving, add bread 
cubes. Pour over lettuce and toss well. Serves 4. The lettuce 
may be romaine or iceberg and should be coarsely cut or torn into 
pieces. 


Mrs. Atston Ramsay (Hazel Hunter) 


181 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Sour Cream Dressing 


1 cup sour cream 11% tablespoons lemon juice 
\%4 teaspoon salt % cup honey 


Combine and beat stiff. 


French Dressing 


2 round teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
1 round teaspoon sugar sauce 

¥Y, teaspoon mustar 1 clove garlic 

¥% teaspoon black pepper 1 cup olive oil 

¥% teaspoon celery salt \% cup vinegar 


Put in quart jar and shake well before using. Half malt and 
half tarragon vinegar is good. 


Roquefort Cheese Dressing 


1 (8 oz.) pkg. cream cheese 1 cup French dressing 
¥% pound Roquefort cheese % cup mayonnaise 


¥Y, pint whipped cream 


Mix together and serve at once. 
Mrs. T. Lapson Wess, Jr. (Anne Moore) 


French Dressing 


5 tablespoons olive oil 2 tablespoons sweet wine 
3 tablespoons tarragon Salt 
vinegar 


Mix thoroughly. Other seasoning may be added according to 
taste. 


Mrs. Aucustine T. S. Stoney (Loulie Jenkins) 
182 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Anchovy Salad Dressing 


1 can anchovies 2 green onions 
1 clove garlic (medium size) 1 cup parsley 
Anchovy paste 1 cup stiff mayonnaise 


Tarragon or wine vinegar 


In a chopping bowl, chop anchovies, onions, garlic and parsley 
until they are almost a paste. Add two or three tablespoons anchovy 
paste. Add this mixture to the mayonnaise. Put into the refrigerator 
at least overnight. When ready to use, season and thin with tarragon 
or wine vinegar. Consistency should be that of thin mayonnaise. 
Keep in refrigerator until ready to serve. This is best used over a 
bowl of mixed salad greens. The more kinds the better. Toss 
lightly, as dressing must stay on greens, and salad must be served 
immediately. 

Mrs. LAWRENCE A. WALKER, JR. (Phyllis Corson) 


Aunt Em’s Salad Dressing 


1 can tomato sauce Red pepper 
1 grated onion 1% cup sugar 
1 tablespoon celery seed 34 cup vinegar 
Y% cup catsup Dash Worcestershire sauce 
1 teaspoon salt 2 cups oil 
Dry mustard 


Mix well and serve. 
Mrs. LaurENCcE O. Stoney (Jane H. Saunders) 


Cream Salad Dressing 


2 eggs (yolks only) Y, teaspoon mustard 
1 tablespoon sugar Salt and pepper 

3 tablespoons vinegar Y cup cream (well 
1 teaspoon butter whipped ) 


Beat eggs well, add sugar and seasonings, then vinegar. Cook 
in double boiler, stirring all the time until about the thickness of rich 
cream. Take from the fire and beat in cream. 

Mrs. Louis T. PARKER (Josephine Walker) 


183 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


French Dressing 
(For Fruit Salad only) 


¥% cup sugar 1 teaspoon salt 

1 teaspoon celery seed 1 teaspoon paprika 

1 cup cold oil 4 teaspoon onion juice 
4 tablespoons vinegar 1 teaspoon dry mustard 


Mix dry ingredients. Add onion juice and % of vinegar. Add 
oil and beat with rotary or electric beater. Add remaining vinegar 
and beat. Let stand several hours in refrigerator before ay 
This should be very thick and is delicious for all types of fruit salad. 

Mrs. Caritron G. Davies (Harriet Goodacre) 


Victor Hugo Salad Dressing 


1 tablespoon grated onion ¥% cup catsup 

Dash of cayenne pepper 1 teaspoon salt 

Y, cup oil (olive and % cup sugar 
salad) % cup vinegar 


Juice of one lemon 


Combine and beat well with rotary beater. 
Mrs. Harotp Periir (Corinne Neely ) 


Sauce a la Russe 


¥% cup catsup 1 tablespoon vinegar 

2 tablespoons lemon juice 2 tablespoons horseradish 

3 good dashes hot sauce 1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
¥Y% teaspoon salt sauce 

11% cups mayonnaise 1 tablespoon grated onion 


Mix together. Chill overnight and do not stir when you empty 
sauce into serving bowl. Dot the top with about five teaspoons of 
red or black caviar. Serve with quarters of crisp lettuce. 

Mrs. W. W. Humpureys (Martha Lynch) 


184 


HOME OF THE AMERICAN RED CROSS 
CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA 


185 


SERTS 


2 
77 
C9 


“,... wen de preachuh eat to de ‘ooman house, him fuh nyam 
de bes! Nuttin’ but de bes’ fuh suit.” 


Now some receipts say “Stir”,—some “Whisk” 
With rapid motion, light and brisk. 

But whether whisk or whether stir, 

Result is soft as kitten’s fur. 

No man can stay depressed or wroth 


While eating Syllabub’s fragrant froth! 


Eve’s Pudding and the 
Christmas Plum Pudding 


“Eve's Pudding and the Christmas Plum Pudding we have al- 
ways been told were brought to America in 1799 by Mrs. de Ber- 
niere, wife of Col. John Anthony de Berniere, retired officer of the 
British Army. It has been used by the descendants—the de Ber- 
niere’s in America ever since through at least six generations. How 
long it was in use in the family before their coming to America I 
do not know.” 

Miss Mary DE BERNIERE BARNWELL 


Eve’s Pudding 


If you want a good pudding mind what you're taught, 

Take of eggs six in number when bought for a groat, 

Of the fruit with which Eve her husband did cozen : 
Well pared and well chopped at least half a dozen. 

Six ounces of bread, let Moll eat the crust, 

And crumble the other as fine as the dust. : 


Six ounces of currants from the stones you must sort 
Lest you break out your teeth and spoil all the sport. 
Six ounces of sugar won't make it too sweet, 
Some salt and some nutmeg will make it complete. | 
Three hours let it boil without haste or flutter 
But Adam won’t eat it without wine and butter. 
Mrs. Epwarp K. PrrrcHarp (Julia Myers) | 


186 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Eve’s Pudding 


6 large apples (pared 6 ounces currants 
and chopped fine) 6 ounces sugar 

6 eggs Salt and nutmeg 

6 ounces finely to taste 


crumbled bread 
Boil three hours in a floured cloth tied very tight. Serve with 
hard sauce flavored with wine. Serves 6. 
_ Mrs. ALEx MIKELL (Minnie Robertson ) 
Great Aunt Janie’s 


Christmas Plum Pudding 


1 Ib. chopped raisins 8 eggs (slightly beaten) 
1 Ib. chopped suet 1 cup brandy 
1 Ib. grated stale bread 1 cup wine 

or half bread and 1 pint milk 

flour 2 grated nutmegs 
1 Ib. currants 1 tablespoon mixed spices 
1 Ib. sugar 1 saltspoon of salt 


Mix the above thoroughly. Boil 6 hours in a floured cloth tied 
tight. It should be served with burning brandy or plum pudding 
sauce. Serves 12. 

Miss Mary DE BERNIERE BARNWELL 


Brandy Pudding 


1 cup granulated sugar 1 cup brandy 
4 eggs, separated 1 pint cream, whipped 
12 lady fingers 


Cream egg yolks and sugar. Add brandy slowly. Cook in top 
of double boiler stirring constantly. Remove from fire and fold in 
the stiffly beaten egg whites. When the mixture cools, fold in the 
whipped cream and pour into a mold which has been lined with 
lady fingers. Let stand several hours in ice box before serving. 
Serves 6. 

Mrs. Henry F. Cuurcu (Rea Bryant) 


187 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Plantation Plum Pudding 


1 pint bread crumbs 2 wine glasses sherry or 

1 pint brown sugar brandy 

1 pint finely chopped suet 1 teaspoon powdered cloves 
2 lbs. seeded raisins 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

1 lb. currants 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

% |b. finely cut citron 1 teaspoon soda 

5 eggs % pint flour 


% |b. coarsely chopped almonds 


Sift flour on fruit, mix eggs and brown sugar and add other in- 
gredients. Put in four one-pound coffee cans, tie covers on with 
string and steam on a rack with the water-level just below the rack 
in a large pot for about three hours. Serve with vanilla ice cream 
and sherry sauce. Serves 10-12. 

Mrs. M. B. ALEXANDER (Ferdinand Williams) 


Sweet Potato Pudding 


1 pint grated sweet potato 3 eggs, separated and 
Y% cup sugar beaten 
Y% cup syrup 1 pint milk, % pint water 
¥% cup butter or margarine, ¥ cup each citron, raisins, 
melted currants, dredged with 
flour 


Cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg 


Season to taste with cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg. Mix in 
order given, except the stiffly beaten whites, which go in last. Bake 
thoroughly in moderate oven, at least 114 hours. Serve with hard 
sauce, made of 1 large spoonful butter or margarine rubbed up with 
granulated sugar and seasoned with brandy or sherry wine. Serves 

-8. 


Miss Mary A. SPARKMAN 


188 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Sweet Potato Pone 


4 cups grated raw yams 1 cup warm water 

2 cups molasses or dark 1 cup chopped citron 
com syrup Grated rind of 1 orange 

1 cup brown sugar Grated rind of 1 lemon 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon chopped or 

\% cup seeded raisins powdered ginge 

2 tablespoons coconut | 
(optional ) 


Mix ingredients; pour into greased baking dish. Bake in mod- 
erate oven until nice crust forms on top (about 45 minutes). Serve 
hot with unsweetened cream, plain or whipped. Serves 6. 


Miss SALLIE CARRINGTON 


Date Pudding 


1 cup dates 3 tablespoons flour 

1 cup pecans 3 tablespoons sweet milk 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 egg Y pint whipping cream 


Cut dates fine with knife. Chop nuts not so fine. Mix dates 
and nuts with flour and baking powder. Beat egg and sugar well 
and stir in milk. Combine with first mixture. Grease shallow 
pudding pan and set in water to steam for 45 minutes in 325° oven. 
Cool and serve with whipped cream. Serves 8. 


Mrs. A. W. Atuison (Moneta Slaton) 


189 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Hampton Polonaise 


“A bride of 1865 brought this receipt from Columbia to Char- 
leston. It is still to be met on gala occasions in the homes of her 
children.” 


1 medium size oblong cake 1% tablespoons cornstarch 
(preferably cup or 1 pound almonds 
pound ) 34 pound citron 

3 gills (1% cups) milk 2 ounces chocolate 

3 eggs Rose water 


4 large tablespoons sugar 


Slice cake as thin as possible across, making 8 layers. Grind 
citron and almonds together with a few drops of rose water. Leave 
some whole almonds and sliced citron for decoration. Make a 
custard with milk, eggs, sugar and cornstarch. Divide into two 
parts. To one half add grated chocolate, dissolving it in the hot 
custard. To the other add the citron and almond paste. Put this 
filling alternately between layers of cake, first chocolate then al- 
mond. Cover entire cake with white icing using a lemon flavoring. 
(See Icings in Cake chapter.) Decorate top and sides with strips 
of citron and almonds stood on end. Serves 10 to 12. 

Mrs. A. T. SMyTHE (Harriott R. Buist) 


Coconut Pudding 


2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 
6 eggs % cup butter 
1 fresh coconut, grated 


Cream sugar and butter; add beaten eggs, then milk and coco- 
nut. Bake in 375° oven. Watch closely and as soon as it begins 
to brown, stir thoroughly. Repeat this about four or five times 
until pudding is thoroughly brown. This is very rich but delicious. 
Should be eaten sparingly. Serves 6. 

Mrs. WitL1AM PopHaM (Louisa Stoney) 


190 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Syllabub 


From “The Carolina Housewife” by a Lady of Charleston (Miss 
Sara Rutledge, daughter of Edward Rutledge, signer of the Declara- 
tion of Independence). 

To 1 quart of cream put %4 pint of sweet wine and 4 pint of 
Madeira, the juice of 2 lemons, a little finely powdered spice, and 
sugar to taste. The peel of the lemon must be steeped in the wine 
until the flavor is extracted. Whisk all these ingredients together, 
and as the froth rises, take it off with a spoon, lay it upon a fine 
sieve. What drains from it put into your pan and whisk again. 
Put the froth into glasses. Serves 12. 

Miss JENNIE RosE PORCHER 


Country Syllabub 


From “Directions for Cookery in its Various Branches” by Miss 
Leslie, Seventh Edition 1889. 

Mix half a pound of white sugar with a pint of fine cider, or of 
white wine, and grate in a nutmeg. Prepare them in a large bowl, 
just before milking time. Then let it be taken to the cow, and have 
about three pints milked into it, stirring it occasionally with a spoon. 
Let it be eaten before the froth subsides. If you use cider, a little 
brandy will improve it. 

Miss Mary Deas RAVENEL 


Lemon Pudding 


1 cup sugar 2 eggs, separated 
3 tablespoons flour 1 lemon 
1 cup milk 4 teaspoon salt 


Combine sugar and flour. Add milk, well-beaten egg yolks, 
salt, lemon juice and grated rind. Carefully fold in stiffly beaten egg 
whites. Pour into buttered baking dish. Set in pan of warm water. 
Bake in slow oven 350° about 35 minutes, or until a knife blade in- 
serted comes out clean. When done, this pudding forms a light 
fluffy cake on top and a rich sauce on bottom. Serve warm. Serves 4. 

Mrs. JAMES Perry (Llewellyn La Bruce) 


191] 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Angel Food Charlotte Russe Cake 


114 cups egg whites 114 teaspoons cream of 

1 cup sifted cake flour tartar 

114 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
Y teaspoon salt \%4 teaspoon almond extract 


Sift flour before measuring, then sift four times with % cup of 
the sugar. Sift remaining cup of sugar. Add salt to egg whites and 
beat until foamy. Add cream of tartar, beat until they hold in peaks. 
Add sifted sugar a few tablespoons at a time, beating after each 
addition. Fold in vanilla and almond extracts. Fold in flour and 
sugar mixture 4 cup ata time. Pour into angel food cake pan and 
bake in moderate oven of 375° for 35 minutes. Turn pan upside 
down and let cake cool for an hour before removing. 


FILLING 
% cup cool water 34 cup sherry 
1 envelope gelatine 1 cup whipping cream 


Y% cup sugar 


Dissolve gelatine in water. Heat sherry to boiling point, stir 
into gelatine mixture. Let cool. Whip cream, add sugar and fold 
into cooled gelatine mixture. Let congeal in refrigerator. Cut cake 
into two layers and place filling between layers and in hole. Ice 
with the following icing: 


ICING 
4 egg whites 1 tablespoon corn syrup 
1 cup sugar (white ) 


Y teaspoon cream of tartar 


Place all ingredients in top of double-boiler and heat, stirring 
occasionally, until very hot. Pour into small bowl of electric mixer 
and beat at high speed ten minutes or until it holds in peaks. Let 
cake stand overnight in refrigerator before serving. Serves 8-10. 
This cake can be frozen very successfully if wrapped in heavy paper. 
Remove paper before starting to thaw cake to keep icing intact. 

Mrs. Rupotpx Siecuine (Elizabeth Carter) 


192 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Charlotte Russe 


1 pint whipping cream % cup cold milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla 4% cup warm milk 

5 egg whites Y% cup sugar 

Sherry Y, tablespoon gelatine 


Lady fingers, split 
Whip cream until stiff, add vanilla and sugar, also sherry to 
taste. Soften gelatine in cold milk, then dissolve in warm milk. 
When cool add to above mixture, beating the cream all of the time. 
Add beaten egg whites. Pour in bowl or dessert glasses lined with 


lady fingers. Serves 6. 
Mrs. J. STANYARNE STEVENS (Caroline Simonds) 


Mrs. Edmund Felder’s 
Caramel Charlotte Russe 


¥% envelope gelatine 1 pint cream, whipped 
1 cup white sugar %4 cup sugar 

¥, cup boiling water 1 teaspoon vanilla 

\%4 cup cold water 6 or 8 lady fingers, split 


1 cup blanched almonds, chopped 


Soak gelatine in 14 cup cold water. Caramel 1 cup white sugar 
well by browning in frying pan. Add boiling water to sugar and 
stir. Pour this into bowl and add gelatine and almonds. Cool, 
then add cream whipped with sugar and vanilla. Pour into bowl 
lined with lady fingers. Chill and serve, with or without whipped 


cream on top. Serves 6. 
Mrs. Lionet Lecce (Dorothy H. Porcher) 


198 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Angel Ice Box Cake 


1 angel cake Y% cup nuts 
1% pints cream, whipped Sherry wine 


3 slices crystallized pineapple Sugar to taste 
Y% cup crystallized cherries 


Cut top off cake to depth of % inch and scoop out the inside 
of the cake leaving a shell, but saving the inside. Cut up fruit and 
nuts and soak overnight or for several hours in sherry, saving a few 
cherries for a garnish. Drain well, add whipped cream, flavored 
with sherry and sugar, reserving enough cream to “ice” outside of 
cake; mix in crumbled inside of cake and stuff this mixture into the 
shell; top with piece cut off top then cover the whole cake with 
rest of whipped cream and decorate with cut-up cherries. Serves 
12 or more. 

Mrs. JoseEpH Henry Moore (Sally Horton) 


Huguenot Torte 


4 eggs 2 cups chopped tart 

3 cups sugar cooking apples 

8 tablespoons flour 2 cups chopped pecans 
5 teaspoons baking powder or walnuts 

Y% teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons vanilla 


Beat whole eggs in electric mixer or with rotary beater until 
very frothy and lemon-colored. Add other ingredients in above or- 
Jer. Pour into two well-buttered baking pans about 8 by 12 inches. 
Bake in 825° oven about 45 minutes or until crusty and brown. To 
serve, scoop up with pancake turner (keeping crusty part on top), 
pile on large plate and cover with whipped cream and a sprinkling 
of the chopped nuts, or make 16 individual servings. 

Mrs. Cornettus Hucuenn (Evelyn Anderson) 


194 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


TORTES 


Almond 


¥Y% pound powdered sugar Y% pound dates 
Y pound almonds, blanched _5 eggs, separated 

and ground 2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 pint heavy cream Sliced almonds 


Beat egg yolks; add date pulp, sugar and almonds. Sprinkle 
baking powder over egg whites, beaten stiff, and fold in. Fold stiff 
whites into yolk mixture. Bake in 350° oven for 45 minutes in 
detachable-rim pie plate. When cool, split in 2 layers and put 
whipped cream and sliced almonds between and on top. Serves 6. 


Black Walnut 


1 cup zweibach crumbs 1 cup powdered sugar 
114 cups chopped nuts 1 teaspoon vanilla 
6 eggs Pinch of salt 


Roll zweibach to make 1 full cup crumbs. Add chopped nuts, 
beaten egg yolks, and fold in beaten egg whites last, after sugar, 
vanilla and salt. Butter pans, do not flour. Bake in 2 layer cake 
pans 12 to 15 minutes in a 350° oven. Let stand 24 hours. Top 
with sweetened whipped cream, sprinkle with nuts. Serves 6. 


Macaroon Filling for Torten Crust 


7 egg whites Juice and grated rind 
34 pound almonds of 1 lemon 
¥, pound powdered sugar 


Steam sugar (sifted) and egg whites in double-boiler 5 minutes, 
stirring constantly. Cool. Blanch and grind almonds, add sugar, 
eggs and lemon. Bake 45 minutes in 350° oven. Serves 6. 

Miss SYDNEY DENT 


195 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Apple Torte 


1 egg 1 cup finely chopped 

34 cup sugar tart apples 

Y% cup flour 4 cup chopped California 
¥Y% teaspoon salt walnuts 

1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon almond extract 


Beat egg until light and fluffy. Add sugar gradually and beat 
until it is dissolved. Sift dry ingredients together and fold into egg 
and sugar mixture. Stir in apple, nuts and almond extract. Lightly 
grease the bottom of an 8” x 8” pan. Pour in mixture and bake 35 
to 40 minutes in 350° oven. Serve warm with whipped cream. 
Serves 6. 

Mrs. M. L. McCrak (Ena Mae Black) 


Meringue Dessert with Lemon Filling 
MERINGUE 


8 egg whites 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 teaspoon cream of tartar 2 cups of sugar 
1 teaspoon vinegar 


Beat egg whites, add sugar and cream of tartar, then vinegar, 
and vanilla. Put in an ungreased spring-form pan and bake in 275° 
oven for about 2 hours. Top with lemon filling. 


FILLING 
5 egg yolks 1 cup sugar 
Juice of 3 lemons 2 tablespoons flour or 
1 tablespoon butter cornstarch 


Mix all ingredients together and cook in double-boiler until 
thick, cool a little and top the meringue with this filling. Ice the 
whole dessert with whipped cream (1 pint). Serves 10-12. 


Mrs. Harotp G. Dorrerer (Harriet Lipscomb) 


196 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Apple Meringue 


6 large apples . 1% cups confectioners 
4 egg whites sugar 
Currant jelly 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Boil the apples after having peeled and cored them. Make a 
meringue of the whites, sugar, and vanilla. Stuff the holes of the 
apples with currant jelly, then cover the apples with the meringue. 
Brown in a moderate oven for three minutes. Serves 6. 


Mrs. Tuomas R. Warinc (Laura Witte) 


Snow Peaks 


¥% cup milk 1 egg 

2 squares chocolate Y% cup flour 

3 tablespoons shortening ¥Y teaspoon salt 

Y% cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 


Y, teaspoon vanilla 


Heat milk over hot water. Add coarsely grated chocolate and 
cook until thick. Stir to keep smooth. Blend shortening, sugar and 
egg until light. Add chocolate mixture, then the sifted dry ingredi- 
ents and vanilla. Pour into 6 greased custard cups. Bake in 350° 
oven about 20 minutes. Serve warm with Mallow Mint Sauce. 
Serves 6. 


MALLOW MINT SAUCE 


Y% cup sugar 8 marshmallows 
Y% cup water Few drops peppermint or 
Y% teaspoon cream of tartar crushed mint candy 


Boil sugar and water 8 minutes. Add cream of tartar. Put in 
the marshmallows which have been cut into pieces. Stir till smooth. 
Flavor with peppermint. 

Mrs. M. L. McCrakr (Ena Mae Black) 


197 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mocha Sponge 


6 squares unsweetened 1 teaspoon vanilla 
chocolate Pinch salt 

6 eggs 1% cups granulated sugar 

1 envelope gelatine 1 pint whipped cream 

Y% cup cold water Heavy rum, to taste 


1 cup very strong hot coffee 


Melt chocolate in double-boiler. Separate eggs. Beat yolks 
until lemon-colored, add sugar slowly, beat some more, adding 
chocolate slowly. Dissolve gelatine in water, then pour into hot 
coffee, stir and strain into mixture, beat well, add vanilla and salt. 
Fold in whites of eggs beaten until stiff. Beat mixture thoroughly, 
put into oiled ring mold. Chill. Serve with whipped cream flavored 
with heavy rum. Serves 6. 

Mrs. Francis B. Stewart (Katherine Felder) 


Coeur a la Créme 


6 (3 oz.) packages Y% cup cold water 
cream cheese 1% cups sugar 
1 pint heavy cream ¥%4 cup sweet or cream 
1 cup coffee cream she 
1 envelope of gelatine Strawberries or raspberries 


Soften cheese, one package at a time, with heavy cream, stirrin 
until smooth. Add sugar and sherry. Dissolve gelatine in col 
water, heat the coffee cream (do not boil), pour on gelatine, strain 
into mixture, and stir thoroughly. Pour into an oiled mold. Chill. 
Serve with strawberries or raspberries. Serves 6. 

Mrs. Francis B. Stewart (Katherine Felder) 


198 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Baba au Rhum 


1 package yeast Y% teaspoon salt 

% cup lukewarm water 1 cup sifted flour 

% cup milk, scalded 3 eggs 

Y cup butter 1 tablespoon rum 

2 tablespoons sugar ¥% cup citron, chopped 
Y% cup flour 


Dissolve yeast in water. Heat milk and butter, pour into large 
bowl, stir in salt and sugar, add yeast, and stir in one cup flour. 
Add eggs, beating in one by one, add rum and citron, and % cup 
flour. Cover and let rise in warm place until double in bulk. Put 
in greased muffin pans and let rise until double. Bake in preheated 
oven at 400° for 10 minutes. Remove and pour over them the fol- 
lowing sauce. Yield: 1 dozen. 


SAUCE 
1 cup brown sugar Y% cup water 
1 cup white corm syrup 1 tablespoon butter 


Y cup rum 
Place first four ingredients in saucepan and heat to boiling 
point, stirring occasionally. Add rum. Babas can be frozen. Pack 
lightly in jars. To thaw—place in top of double-boiler and heat. 
Serve hot with whipped cream or with a spoonful of whipped-up 


ice cream on top. 
Mrs. Rupo.py Siecuine (Elizabeth Carter) 


Never-Fail Baked Custard 


5 eggs 5 heaping tablespoons 
1 quart milk sugar 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
Heat milk; cream yolks and sugar thoroughly. Add milk slow- 
ly. Beat egg whites until foamy (not too stiff), fold into mixture. 
Add vanilla. Pour in casserole; set in pan of hot water. Bake 
slowly in 325° oven. When done, inserted knife comes out clean. 


Serves 6. 
Mrs. Mary H. Bamey (Mary Huguenin) 


199 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Rum - Bumble 


11% tablespoons gelatine % cup rum 

2 tablespoons cold water 4 tablespoons rye whiskey 
6 tablespoons boiling water 2 egg whites 

1 cup sugar 1 pint cream 


Y, cup almonds 


Soften gelatine in cold water. After 5 minutes dissolve in boil- 
ing water. Add sugar, rum and whiskey, stirring until sugar melts. 
Strain; when it begins to thicken, beat till frothy. Add well beaten 
egg whites, then cream, beaten, and gradually put in all of it. Beat 
very light. Put in mold and chill. Serve with whipped cream and 
sprinkled with 14 cup chopped toasted almonds. Serves 6. 

Mrs. JoHN BENNETT (Susan Smythe) 


Chocolate Pots de Créme 


1 pound triple 2 cups milk 
vanilla sweet chocolate 6 egg yolks 
1 tablespoon sugar 


Melt chocolate and milk in double boiler. Beat eggs and sugar 
until thick. When chocolate is melted and thickened, pour over 
beaten egg yolks, stirring constantly. Pour into individual pots de 
créme dishes and put in shallow pan of water. Cook in 850° oven 
until custards are firm. Cool and place in refrigerator and serve with 
Mocha Sauce. Serves 10. 


MOCHA SAUCE 


1% tablespoons instant 2 egg yolks 
coffee %4 cup sugar 
Y% cup hot water Pinch salt 


¥, pint cream (whipped) 

Dissolve instant coffee in hot water. Beat egg yolks with sugar 
and salt. Add coffee and cook in double-boiler, stirring constantly 
until custard is very thick. Cool. Chill in refrigerator and fold in 
whipped cream just before serving. 

Mrs. Henry P. Staats (Juliette Wiles) 


200 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Strawberry Short Cake 


2 cups flour (measured 4 tablespoons butter 
before sifting ) 1 cup milk 

3 teaspoons baking powder 1 quart strawberries with 

%4 teaspoon salt 34 cup sugar 

2 tablespoons sugar Butter to spread 


Pulverized sugar 


Mix dry ingredients and sift; rub in the butter and add milk. 
Grease 2 pans and spread with the mixture. Bake 20 minutes in a 
quick oven. Reserve a few large berries and mash the others with 
sugar. Take cakes from oven and spread with butter, then fill with 
berries (after draining them). Put some of the whole berries on top 
of the cake and sprinkle with pulverized sugar. Serve (hot or cold) 
with the juice as a sauce, or with whipped cream, or both. Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. Louis T. Parker (Josephine Walker) 


Coffee Jelly with Macaroon Cream 


4 teaspoons of granulated 1% tablespoons of sugar 
gelatine 2 cups strong coffee 

Y% cup cold water ¥% teaspoon of vanilla 

1 cup boiling water extract 


Dissolve gelatine in cold water. Add boiling water and sugar. 
Stir well. Let cool for thirty minutes, then add the coffee, and 
vanilla, stir again and put in a nine (9) inch ring mold. Chill for 5 
hours. Turn jellied coffee onto chilled plate and fill the center with 
macaroon cream. 


MACAROON CREAM 


114 cups whipping cream 1 jigger good rum 
3 tablespoons sugar 1 cup crumbled macaroons 


Whip cream, add sugar, rum and macaroons. Serves 6. 
Mrs. WALTER Metts (Jane Stauffer) 


201 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Macaroon Soufflé 


1 dozen macaroons, 3 egg whites 
crumbled ¥Y, cup chopped fresh 

1 cup milk fruits 

3 egg yolks 


¥, pint whipping cream 
Scald macaroons in milk, pour gradually over beaten egg yolks 
and cook over hot water until slightly thickened. Fold into the mix- 
ture the stiffly beaten egg whites and bake in a buttered mold set in 
a pan of water. Bake at 375° about 20 minutes. Turn out and sprinkle 
with chopped fresh fruits and surround with whipped cream. 
Serves 6. 


Miss EuGENIA FROST 


Wine Soufflé 


This dessert is particularly good after Christmas, or any other 
heavy dinner. 


7 egg whites 7 tablespoons sugar 

Pinch of baking powder ¥Y cup of raisins 

¥% cup of broken English Sherry wine 
walnuts 


Soak walnuts and raisins in sherry wine the night before using. 
Beat egg whites stiff and add suyar gradually, then baking powder 
and lastly nuts and raisins which have been removed from the wine. 
The nuts and raisins should be folded in lightly and the entire mix- 
ture put in a greased baking dish. This must be placed in a pan of 
hot water and cooked in a 375° oven for 15 or 20 minutes. Serve 
immediately. Serves 6. 


Mrs. JoHN Srmonps (Frances Rees) 


202 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Chocolate Soufflé 


2 tablespoons butter 3 egg whites 
2 tablespoons flour 1% cups sugar 
34 cup milk 2 tablespoons hot water 
1% squares bitter 3 egg yolks 
chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Blend butter and flour. Gradually add milk, stirring until it 
reaches the boiling point. Mix chocolate, sugar and hot water to- 
gether. Then add to milk mixture. Add egg yolks (well beaten), 
vanilla and lastly the stiffly beaten egg whites. Put in buttered 
ramekins or baking dishes. Bake 25 minutes in 350° oven. Serves 6. 


Mrs. Mary H. Bartey (Mary Huguenin) 


Orange Cake with Whipped Cream 


1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon soda 
4 cup butter 1 cup raisins 
2 eggs Rind of 1 large orange 
2 cups flour 1 pint whipping cream 
¥, teaspoon baking powder 4 cup orange juice with 
1 cup sour milk . Y% cup sugar 

Salt 


Cream butter and sugar. Beat eggs and add to mixture. Sift 
soda and a pinch of salt and baking powder with flour. Add to mix- 
ture, alternating with sour milk. Put orange rind and raisins through 
food chopper and add. Bake 40 minutes in moderate oven (350° ) 
in flat glass baking dish (greased with shortening). When cool 
pour over cake %4 cup orange juice mixed with % cup sugar. Cut 
in squares and serve with whipped cream. Serves 10 or more. 


Mrs. ARTHUR Hopxmns (Martha Carrington) 
208 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Wine Jelly 


2 cups sugar 2 cups sherry 
473 cups cold water 1 cup rum 
2 lemons (rind cut in pieces) Juice of 3 lemons 


3 envelopes gelatine 


Bring sugar, 2 cups cold water and rind of lemons to a boil and 
boil for 15 minutes. While this is cooking, soak gelatine in % cup 
cold water. Pour hot mixture on gelatine and stir until dissolved. 
Add 2 cups cold water, strain to remove lemon peel. Add sherry, 
rum and lemon juice. This makes one-half gallon. 


Mrs. Francis J. PeLzer (Mary Randolph) 


Wine Jelly 


2 envelopes gelatine \% cup lemon juice, 
Y% cup cold water strained 
1 cup boiling water %4 cup orange juice, 
2 cups sweet sherry wine strained 
Pinch of salt 7% cup sugar 


Soak gelatine in cold water about 10 minutes. Add boiling water; 
stir well; cool partially. Then add sugar, salt, lemon juice, orange 
juice and wine. Place in mold to congeal. Serves 6. 


Mrs. THappeus STREET (Mary Leize Simons) 


Tropical Gingerbread 


% cup butter 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
Y% cup sugar 1 tablespoon ginger 

Y% cup molasses 4 teaspoon each: 

1 teaspoon soda allspice, cloves and 
2 eggs nutmeg 

1% cups flour Y% cup cold water 


1 can moist coconut 


204 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cream butter and sugar, add all other ingredients in above 
order. Bake in a greased shallow pan in 850° oven for 30 to 40 min- 
utes. Cut in squares and serve with cream (whipped). Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. A. KintocH McDoweE tt (Annie Bissell) 


Bossis Plantation Molasses 
Cake in Casserole 


¥% cup butter © 

4 cup molasses 

Y% cup brown sugar 
I egg 

¥ teaspoon soda 


4 cup hot water 

2 cups flour (sifted) 

1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon each: cinnamon, 
cloves, ginger (mixed) 

Raisins, (optional) 


Cream butter and sugar. Add sifted flour, baking powder, spices. 
Then add egg and molasses. When ready to bake, add soda, water 
and raisins. Cook in 350° oven for 30 minutes. Serve with hot 


melted butter or lemon sauce. 


Serves 6. 


Mrs. THoMAS PorcHER WuiTE (Gulie Simmons) 


Southern Spicy Gingerbread 


2 eggs 

34 cup brown sugar 

34 cup dark molasses 

34 cup shortening 
(14 butter) 

2% cups flour 


1 cup boiling water 

2 teaspoons soda 

2 teaspoons ginger 

1% teaspoons cinnamon 
Y% teaspoon cloves 

Y% teaspoon nutmeg 


¥4 teaspoon baking powder 


Add beaten egg to sugar, molasses and melted shortening and 
beat well. Add dry ingredients which have been mixed and sifted, 
then the boiling water. Bake in small individual pans or shallow 
pan, greased, in moderate oven 350° for 80 or 40 minutes. Serve 


with lemon sauce. Serves 8. 


Mrs. Ricuarps Lewis (Gabriella Parker) 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. Dill’s Bucket Dumpling 


1 pint of flour 1 large tablespoon butter 
2 eggs 1 large tablespoon shortening 
2 level teaspoons baking ¥% cup milk 

powder 1 qt. sweetened blackberries 


Mix butter, lard, flour and baking powder. Add eggs, slightly 
beaten, then milk. Put in a lard can or mold and smear around 
sides. Place one quart of berries in center. Cover mold and steam 
in boiling water for three hours. Serve with hard sauce. This 
dumpling is more delicious than when made with biscuit dough. If 
berries are sour, you may add a little sugar. Any other fruit in 
season, such as apples, peaches or huckleberries may be substituted 
for blackberries. Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. W. Davis Rocers (Julia Dill) 


Peach Upside-Down Cake 


¥% cup shortening 2 eggs 

% cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 
¥% cup milk 1% cups flour 

1 teaspoon vanilla ¥ teaspoon salt 


Y% teaspoon almond flavoring 


Cream shortening and sugar. Add remaining ingredients and 
beat well. Pour over peach mixture. Serves 6. 


PEACH MIXTURE 
% cup butter 1 cup light brown sugar 
1% cups sliced peaches 


Place butter and sugar in a sheet cake pan and heat slowly, 
stirring constantly until well browned. Add peaches. Cover with 
cake batter; bake 34 hour at 350°. Turn out peach side up. Serve 
hot or cold with whipped cream. Other fruits may be substituted 
for the peaches. 


Mrs. S. Epwarp Izarp, Jr. (Anne Kirk) 
206 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Pineapple Fritters 


These fritters are a specialty at the old Caesar's Head Hotel, 
Caesar's Head, South Carolina, where many Charlestonians summer. 


1 egg 1 cup crushed and drained 

1 cup milk (scant) pineapple 

3 tablespoons sugar 2 tablespoons butter, melted 

21% teaspoons baking 2% cups flour to make 
powder stiff batter 


Combine in order given. Add pineapple to batter last. Drop a 
tablespoonful at a time in hot, deep fat. Serves 6-8. 


SAUCE FOR PINEAPPLE FRITTERS 


1 cup brown sugar 1 cup water 
(light) 1 cup pineapple juice 
2 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons butter 


Y% lemon (juice) 
Combine and cook until clear. 
Mrs. EucENE Geer (Winifred Williams) 


Plum Pudding Sauce 


1 cup sugar 1 egg 
Y stick butter Rum, whiskey or sherry 
to taste 


Add just enough water to wet sugar and cook until it begins to 
thicken. Take off heat, add butter then pour slowly over beaten 
whole egg and bring to a boil. Then add rum, whiskey or sherry 
to taste. 

Mrs. WALKER COLEMAN (Felicia Chisolm) 


207 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. W. Lucas Simons’ 
Orange and Lemon Sauce 


Grated rind of 2 oranges Juice of 2 lemons 
Juice of 4 oranges 1 cup sugar 
Enough water to make 4 egg yo 
1 pint liquid 2 tablespoons corn starch. 


Boil together for five minutes all ingredients except egg yolks 
and starch, then pour over egg yolks into which paste made with 
corn starch and a little water has been beaten. Boil again for 5 
minutes or until thick and clear. 


LEMON SAUCE 


¥% cup lemon juice instead of orange and lemon. 
Mrs. Arruur J. Stoney (Anne Montague) 


Wine Sauce 
2 tablespoons butter 1 egg white 
Ya Cup powdered sugar 3 tablespoons of sherry 


Cream butter and sugar. Add white of egg well beaten and 
beat for a minute. Add wine, a little at a time. Place bowl con- 
taining mixture in a pan of boiling water and stir for 8 minutes. 

Mrs. J. App1son INctE (Nell Jervey) 


Hard Sauce 
1 stick butter (real) 1 egg white 
1 cup white sugar ¥% cup rum or whiskey 


Cream butter and sugar until very light, add beaten egg white, 
continue beating and add flavoring a little at a time until sauce is 
very fluffy. Sprinkle grated nutmeg on top of sauce. 

Mrs. A. Kintoch McDowELi (Annie Bissell ) 


208 


ICE CREAMS 


Miss Sally, ef uh chun um fuh yuh, kin uh lick de dashuh? 


The summertime in Charleston 

Can be a pleasant season. 

No need to let the temperature 
Deprive you of your reason! 

Dress coolly then, and bow the blinds 
Against the heat and gleam; 

And leisurely consume a dish 

Of frosty fig ice cream. 


Fig Ice Cream 


2 eggs 34 cup sugar 
¥, pint milk 3 quarts figs 
1 quart whipping cream 1 tablespoon lemon juice 


1 teaspoon vanilla 


Make custard of milk and eggs. Whip cream until frothy on top. 
Add custard when cold, figs which have been peeled and mashed 
through a potato ricer or sieve, and sprinkled with the lemon juice, 
sugar, and vanilla. Freeze in churn. (If no churn is available this 
may be frozen in a refrigerator provided it is taken out and beaten 
with an egg beater when it is partly frozen and returned to freezing 
tray.) This ice cream can be made with any fruit. Serves 16. 

Mrs. J. STANYARNE STEVENS (Caroline Simonds) 


Frozen Eggnog 


5 eggs 1 pint whipping cream 
% cup sugar 4 jiggers of rum 
2 jiggers of rye 


Separate egg yolks and whites. Beat yolks well. Add about 4 
the sugar, then rum, and rye. Let this stand, stirring occasionally, 
while beating the whites very stiff and gradually adding rest of 
sugar. Whip cream and add all together. Put in freezing tray in 
refrigerator. This will never freeze very stiff. Serves 8. 


Mrs. WALKER COLEMAN (Felicia Chisolm) 
209 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cherry Bisque Ice Cream 


1 pint milk (scalded) 6 or 8 tablespoons rum 
2 eggs (well beaten) or whiskey 

1 cup sugar (or more) 1 dozen macaroons 
Pinch of salt (crumbled ) 

1 heaping tablespoon flour %4 pound crystallized 
1 teaspoon vanilla cherries (cut in 

1 quart single cream small pieces ) 


Beat egg; add sugar, flour and salt. Stir in milk while hot. 
Return to stove and let thicken, stirring all the time to keep from 
lumping. Set aside to cool. (If any lumps, strain custard.) Whip 
cream (not stiff) and stir into custard; add vanilla and rum or 
whiskey and freeze. When almost frozen open freezer and mix in 
macaroons and cherries. Freeze again until hard. Yield: 1% qts. 
Serves 10-12. 


Mrs. ANDREW Simons (Katherine Hunt) 


Coconut Ice Cream 


1 tablespoon flour 1 egg 

2 tablespoons milk Y% cup top milk 

1 cup milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 

73 cup light corn syrup ¥% cup shredded coconut 


Extra coconut for toasting 


Blend flour with 2 tablespoons milk. Add 1 cup milk and syrup. 
Beat egg whole, add. Cook over hot water, stirring until thick. Cool. 
Add top milk, vanilla and coconut. Freeze to mush, using 8 parts 
crushed ice to 1 part ice cream salt. Remove dasher. Cover. Pack 
in 4 parts ice to 1 part salt for three hours. When serving, sprinkle 
toasted coconut over top. Makes 1 quart. May be frozen in electric 
refrigerator, stirring once after mush has formed. Serves 8. 


Mrs. Artuur J. Stoney (Anne Montague) 
210 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Peppermint-Stick Ice Cream 


leup milk — Y% pound peppermint 

1 pint heavy cream stick candy, crushed 

Heat milk in top of double-boiler; add candy and stir constantly 
until dissolved. Pour into tray of refrigerator and chill. Whip cream 
until thickened, but not stiff, and fold into chilled candy mixture. 
Pour back into tray and freeze, with control set at coldest point, 
until firm. Stir once or twice during freezing. Serve with hot fudge 
sauce. Serves 6 to 8. 


Mrs, JOHN Laurens (May Rose) 


Chilled Pineapple Ice Cream 


1 pint cream, whipped Sugar to taste 
1 fresh pineapple, diced Flavor with rum 
(about 2 cups) 
Mix. Put in refrigerator tray 12 hours before using. Serves 6-8. 
Mrs. JOHN BENNETT (Susan Smythe) 


My Mother’s Lemon Ice Cream 


2 lemons 2 cups milk 
2 cups cream 1 cup sugar 
1 egg white 


Squeeze juice of one lemon, cut other lemon into very thin 
slices; add juice and sliced lemon to cup of sugar and let stand for 
one hour, stirring until sugar is dissolved. 

Whip cream, add milk and chill, then add lemon and sugar mix- 
ture and stiffly beaten egg white. 

If made in refrigerator, ice cream should be beaten thoroughly 
when it is of mushy consistency. If made in dasher-type ice cream 
freezer, it is not necessary to whip cream. Serves 6. 


Miss MARGARET WATSON 


211 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Custard Ice Cream 


1 cup milk 2 cups heavy cream 
1 cup light cream 34 cup sugar 
6 egg yolks 1% teaspoon salt 


11% teaspoons vanilla 


Scald 1 cup milk and 1 cup light cream. Add gradually to the 
slightly beaten egg yolks, mixed with the sugar and salt. Cook in 
double-boiler, stirring constantly, until the custard thickens and 
coats a spoon. Pour into a bowl and flavor with the vanilla. Cool. 
Beat the heavy cream until thick but not stiff. Fold into the cus- 
tard. Pour into freezing tray, set the refrigerator to coldest point, 
and freeze until firm. Remove from refrigerator, beat and mash 
mixture in tray until smooth. Freeze again until firm. Remove 
and beat and mash again. Freeze until firm. Set control back to 
normal position. Serve with hot fudge sauce or fruit sauce. Serves 
8 to 10. 


Mrs. JoHN Laurens (May Rose) 


Vanilla Ice Cream 


1 pint heavy cream ¥% teaspoon vanilla 
% cup sugar Pinch of salt 
¥% cup milk 1 egg 


Beat cream until thick, then add rest of the ingredients. Freeze 
one hour or until hard. Then remove mixture to bowl and beat it 
again. Re-freeze. Serves 4-6. 

Mrs. J. K. Donanve (Esther Laushe) 


Buttermilk Ice Cream 


1 quart buttermilk 1% cups sugar 
1 pint cream Flavor with vanilla 
or wine. 


Blend these ingredients and put in freezing unit of refrigerator. 
Stir well after it begins to freeze and return to refrigerator. Serves 8. 


Mrs. Cuartes Dwicut (Lucille Lebby) 
212 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Macaroon Ice Cream 


1 pound macaroons 1 pint whipping cream 
Y% cup sherry Sugar to taste 


Crumble macaroons and soak them in sherry. Add cream, beat- 
en stiff. Sweeten to taste. Put in pan and let stay in freezer for half 
an hour. Take out and beat mixture with a fork. Put back in 
freezer for another half hour. Cover with wax paper and leave in 
box until ready to serve. The sherry wine in the cream takes longer 
to freeze; about three hours. Serves 6. 

Miss I. L. Dawson 


Macaroon-Apricot Ice Cream 


1 pint whipping cream 1 can apricots (about 
1 pint coffee cream 2 cups) 
12 macaroons if large, Sugar to taste 


more if small 


Lit’ , wuip heavy cream, adding coffee cream, and crumble 
the macaroons into this. Add the apricots which have been mashed 
through strainer. Use all the juice and pulp. Sweeten to taste. 
Freeze. Stir before it begins to freeze hard. Serves 8. 


Mrs. J. P. Frost (Laura Green) 


Biscuit Tortoni 


1 cup sugar 3 eggs 
3 tablespoons water 1 pint cream 
1 dozen stale macaroons 1 teaspoon vanilla 


1 tablespoon sweet sherry 


Cook sugar and water until it makes a syrup. Beat the eggs 
separately. Beat syrup into egg whites. Then fold in the beaten 
egg yolks, and the whipped cream. Season with vanilla and sherry. 
Cut wax paper and line freezing trays. Put layer of macaroons, 
crumbled, layer of mixture, etc. Top with macaroon crumbs. If 
serving at night prepare in the morning. Freeze. Serves 4-6. 


Mrs. G. Simms McDoweE tt (Henrietta Phillips) 
2138 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Pistachio Ice Cream 


4 cups light cream 4 teaspoon salt 

1 cup sugar ¥Y, cup pistachio nuts 

1 tablespoon almond 1 cup almonds 
extract Green coloring 


Chop pistachio nuts and almonds fine. Whip cream, then add 
other ingredients, and nuts. Color with delicate green coloring, 
freeze. Good served with peach sauce made as follows: Turn 1 can 
of peaches into a saucepan. Add % cup of sugar, and cook slowly 
until syrup is thick. Cool and cut the fruit into small pieces. Serves 
4-6. 

Mrs. Lionet Lecce (Dorothy H. Porcher) 


Mrs. Alston Pringle’s 
Marshmallow Ice Cream 


1 pound marshmallows, cut up 1 pint cream, whipped 
1 large can grated pineapple 1 cup sherry 


Put marshmallows and pineapple together and let stand over- 
night. When ready to freeze, add whipped cream and sherry. 
Serves 12-14. 


Mrs. JoHN Srmonps (Frances Rees) 


Mint Parfait 


16 marshmallows 5 drops essence of 
344 cup milk peppermint 
\% pint whipping cream Green coloring, if desired 


3-ounce bottle créme de menthe cherries 
Steam marshmallows and milk together over hot water until 
mixture is smooth. Add cherries (finely chopped) and juice. Add 
peppermint essence. Cool, and when slightly stiffened, combine 
carefully with stiffly beaten cream. Pour into trays and freeze with- 
out stirring. Serve in sherbet, or parfait glasses. Serves 6. 


Mrs. Arrur J. Stoney (Anne Montague) 
214 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Coffee Mousse 


1 quart whipping cream 2 cups strong coffee 
1 cup sugar 2 eggs 
Tiny pinch of salt 


Melt sugar and salt in cold coffee. Beat cream until stiff. Add 
sugar and coffee mixture slowly. Beat in the raw eggs. Freeze in 
deep ice tray. Serves 8. 


- Mrs. ALBERT Simons (Harriet Stoney) 


Peach Mousse 


1 cup sugar % cup water 
1 cup mashed peaches 2 cups heavy cream 
y, tablespoon gelatine 2 tablespoons lemon juice 


Mash fruit and put through sieve. Soak gelatine 5 minutes in 
Y% cup cold water. Dissolve thoroughly by placing it over a pan of 
boiling water. Add gelatine, lemon juice, and sugar to crushed fruit. 
Place in refrigerator. When mixture is thoroughly chilled and be- 
ginning to congeal, fold in cream, which has been whipped stiff. 
Pour into refrigerator tray and chill. Serves 6 to 8. 


Mrs. W. Hampton Locan, Jr. (Virginia Watson) 


Orange Ice and Vanilla Mousse 


Tuice of 8 large oranges 1 pint cream, whipped 
Juice of 2 lemons 1 teaspoon gelatine, 

\% cup sugar dissolved in water 
1 egg white, beaten stiff 14 cup sugar 


1 teaspoon vanilla 


Mix orange and lemon juice and ¥4 cup sugar. Place in freezer 
When nearly hard remove from freezer and beat in the beaten egg 
white. Place back in freezer and when hard add mousse. To make 
mousse, whip the cream, add % cup sugar, gelatine and vanilla. 
Place on top of orange ice and freeze. Serves 6. 

Mrs. Witu1aAM A. Hutcuinson (Eva Austin) 


215 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Raspberry Mousse 


2 eggs 2% tablespoons gelatine 
1 quart cream 1 quart milk 
1 pint raspberry jam Y% cup cold water 


Beat eggs into cream and jam. Soften gelatine in cold water, 
then dissolve in hot milk. After that cools, pour in the mixture and 
put in refrigerator. Serves 8. 

Miss CAROLINE RUTLEDGE 


Pineapple Sherbet 


2 cups buttermilk 1 egg white, beaten stiff 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 nine-ounce can crushed Y% teaspoon unflavored 
pineapple gelatine 


2 teaspoons cold water 


Drain pineapple. Combine buttermilk, sugar, pineapple, and 
vanilla. Add gelatine, which has been soaked in cold water and dis- 
solved over hot water. Fold in egg white. Freeze firm 8 to 4 
hours. Stir once during freezing. Serves 6. 


Mrs. J. K. Donauve (Esther Laushe) 


Fruit and Milk Sherbet 


3 lemons, juice Y2 cup white syrup 
3 oranges, juice and pulp Y% cup sugar 


3 large bananas, mashed fine 1 pint milk 


To mashed bananas add fruit pulp, juices, sugar, and syrup. 
Stir into the milk. Pour into refrigerator tray and freeze until firm. 
Stir twice during freezing. Serves 6. 


Mrs. JoHN LAuRENS (May Rose) 
216 


© 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Pineapple Milk Sherbet 
1 cup pineapple juice 7% cup sugar 
3 tablespoons lemon juice 2 cups milk 
Mix pineapple juice, lemon juice, and sugar. Chill, then add to 
milk. Freeze one hour, beat thoroughly, then freeze about 8 hours. 


Serves 4. 
Mrs. Louis T. ParKER (Josephine Walker) 


The Ravenel Twins’ Delectable 


1 cup chopped pecans 1 cup preserved ginger, 
1 cup maraschino cherries, chopped 
chopped Syrup from ginger 


2 quarts orange sherbet 


Mix pecans, cherries, ginger and syrup. Place a large table- 
spoon of the sherbet in a punch cup, top with a teaspoon of the 
sauce. Serve with a small coffee spoon. Delicious at a reception 
or tea, with sherbet in punch bowl and sauce in small bowl. Serves 
about 50. 

Miss M. Deas RAVENEL 


Mrs. 8. G. Stoney’s Watermelon deLuxe 


1 good, well-shaped 1 dozen limes 
watermelon 3 pounds sugar 
1 bottle claret 3 quarts water 


Cut melon in half, length-wise, and chill. (Only half of melon 
is used). Take out the heart in pieces, removing seeds. Have ready 
sherbet given below, pile into melon shell with pieces of melon 
mixed into sherbet. 


SHERBET: 


Boil sugar and lime skins with water until syrup is pleasantly 
flavored. Pour in claret, lime juice, and enough water to fill a 6- 
quart churn. Serves 12-14. 

Mrs. W. S. PorpHam (Louisa Stoney) 


217 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Watermelon Balls with Raspberry Ice 


1 well-shaped watermelon Sugar 
Anisette liqueur Mint leaves 
3 quarts raspberry ice 


Choose well-shaped watermelon, chill well, then cut lengthwise. 
With ball cutter cut out as many balls as possible. Sprinkle balls 
with small amount of sugar, a very little of the liqueur and a few 
fresh mint leaves very finely cut. Using the most uniform half, 
trim out uneven bits of melon left from the balling process, then 
pack well with red raspberry ice (three quarts of ice are sufficient 
for ordinary sized melon). Decorate top with semi-sweet chocolate 
drops in seed pattern. To serve: Place packed melon half on 
large silver platter or tray and surround with few small magnolia 
leaves and mounds of melon balls. Serves 12-14. 


Mrs. JoHN McGowan (Elizabeth Calvin) 


Chocolate Sauce 


2 ounces bitter chocolate 4 tablespoons butter 
1 cup boiling water 1 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon vanilla Pinch of salt 


Melt chocolate in top of double-boiler. Add butter and stir. 
When melted, add cup of boiling water slowly, stirring constantly. 
Then add sugar. Take off double-boiler and put over fire. Bring 
to a boil and cook about five minutes. Add pinch of salt and 
vanilla. 

Mrs. WALKER CoLEMAN (Felicia Chisolm) 


Caramel Sauce 
1% cups sugar 34 cup cream 
1 tablespoon butter 
Put 1 cup sugar and the cream in top of double-boiler. When 
thoroughly heated, add 14 cup of the sugar that has been browned 
into liquid in skillet. Stir until fully dissolved and add the butter. 
Serve hot on vanilla ice cream, cake, etc. Yield: 34 pint. 
Mrs. THomMas Carrutuers (Ellen D. Everett ) 


218 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


-Tutti-Frutti Sauce 


1 quart grain alcohol 1 cup fresh fruit 
1 cup sugar 


Use 1 gallon crock with a tight cover. Begin in March; put 
alcohol in, then equal sugar to fruit, one cup of each, as the fresh 
fruits come in the market except peaches, pears, bananas and apples. 
Start first with pineapple, then use your own ingenuity in procuring 
a variety of fruits and berries. Always remove seeds or stones. In 
November add 1 cup seeded raisins and 1 cup broken pecan meats 
(no sugar for these last two). Heavy rum may be substituted for 
alcohol. Stir after addition of fruit with wooden spoon. This 
is ready for Christmas. 

Mrs. ANDREW J. GEER (Mary Owen) 


Sugarless Fudge Sauce 


% cup cocoa Y teaspoon salt 
¥% cup cold water 1 tablespoon oleo 
1% cups light corn syrup 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Mix cocoa, water, syrup and salt. Cook, stirring often, until 
mixture becomes a heavy syrup. Stir in margarine and vanilla. 
Serve hot or cold. If desired sweeter, add honey to taste after 
sauce has finished cooking. Makes 1% cups. 


Mrs. R. M. ANDERSON (Dorothy Middleton) 


Sherry Sauce 


“This sauce is so easily and quickly made and makes something 
really special of vanilla ice cream.” 


¥Y, cup milk 1 cup sugar 
2 tablespoons sherry 4 tablespoons butter 


Boil milk, sugar and butter together for five minutes. Add 
sherry. 


Mrs. PRIOLEAU Batu (Teresa Daniel) 


219 


ae Te 


Ayys in Ubon? 
bf nea 
Meee tt 
at ae 


{ 


(je 


i=l 


= 


LF] 


SWORD GATES 1849 


es 


f 


“W'en unnuh fuh mek pie-crus’, tek yuh flour en’ put een ‘nuf 
fuh tek up de slack.” 


Your fav'rite man demands an apple pie? 

Then scan the best receipts with searching eye,— 
Transparent Tarts, Rum Pie, or Bakewell Tart? 
What matter if it seems to satisfy? 

For often, by ignoring his behest, 

You may convince him Wifie knoweth best! 


Plain Pastry 


DOUBLE CRUST 


2% cups sifted flour 1 teaspoon salt 

34 cup shortening % cup water 

Sift flour and salt into bowl. Reserve % cup flour. Cut 
shortening into remaining flour with two knives or with pastry mixer. 
When lumps are size of small peas, add the %4 cup flour blended to 
paste with the water. Mix thoroughly but lightly until mixture can 
be formed into a ball. Put wax paper over biscuit board, or any 
smooth surface. Place half of dough on it, cover with another sheet 
of wax paper. Roll with short, light strokes to 12 inch round and 
¥% inch thickness. Place lightly in pie plate, easing into angle at 
base. Trim 4 inch beyond outer edge of plate. After filling and 
upper crust are in place, crimp this edge as desired. 


SINGLE CRUST 


1% cups flour ¥%, cup shortening 
4 teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons water 


Proceed as above. Reserve %4 cup flour. Bake 8-10 minutes 
at 475°. 


Mrs. JoHN Boone (Ellen Gleason) 


221 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Torten Crust 
% cup butter 1 tablespoon sugar 
1 cup flour 1 egg yolk 
Pinch salt 


Cream butter and sugar, add other ingredients, pat % inch 
thick in pie pan, fill with pie filling and bake. (See filling page 195). 
Miss SYDNEY DENT 


New Pie Crust 


2 cups sifted flour Y% cup vegetable oil 
1% teaspoons salt % cup cold milk 


Blend all together thoroughly but lightly with knives or pastry 
mixer. Divide and roll between sheets of wax paper as plain pastry. 
This amount makes enough for a 2-crust pie. For one-crust pie 
shell use 2 the measurements. Place rolled dough in pie plate. 
Prick thoroughly with fork. Bake 8-10 minutes in very hot oven 
(475°). 

Mrs. WatTer Prince III (Adelaide Godfrey) 


Lemon Meringue Pie 


4 eggs 1 cup sugar 
1 tablespoon flour 1 large lemon 


Separate eggs. Beat yolks until very light. Add %4 cup sugar 
and the flour well blended. Add juice and grated rind of lemon. 
Cook over flame until it thickens. Stir constantly, as it scorches 
easily. Cool. Beat egg whites very stiff. Add % cup sugar slowly, 
beating all the while. Leave half of whites for meringue. Add 
other half to yolk mixture folding gently. Fill partly cooked pie 
crust with mixture. Top with meringue. Bake slowly in medium 
oven for 20 minutes. 


Mrs. Water A. Davis (Genevieve Lockwood ) 
eo2g 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Chocolate Meringue Pie 


34 cup sugar 2% cups milk 

3 tablespoons cornstarch 2 squares chocolate 
3 tablespoons flour 2 egg yolks 

Y% teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Grate or cut chocolate into 2 cups milk, place over hot water to 
melt. Combine first four ingredients and blend with % cup milk. 
When chocolate is melted and milk is scalded, add to egg yolks well 
beaten. Stir constantly. Add flour and sugar mixture. Cook over 
boiling water stirring constantly until thick, add vanilla. Cool. 
Place in pastry shell and top with meringue made of: 


3 egg whites 6 tablespoons sugar 


Beat eggs until stiff, then add sugar gradually. Spread on pie. 
Bake in oven 300° about 7 minutes. 
Mrs. Lionet K. Lecce (Dorothy Porcher) 


Coconut Cream Pie 


1 cup sugar and 4 3 rounded tablespoons 
tablespoons cornstarch 

Y% teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons vanilla 

234 cups milk Y%4 cup coconut juice 

4 eggs (separated ) Y% stick real butter 


1 large coconut (finely grated) 


Scald milk, pour slowly over 1 cup sugar, cornstarch and salt 
mixed together, then pour this mixture slowly over beaten egg yolks. 
Return to double-boiler, add coconut juice and cook until thick, stir- 
ring constantly. Remove from heat, add butter, vanilla and coconut 
(reserving 14 cup). Cool, pour into baked pie shell. Beat egg 
whites until stiff, add 4 tablespoons sugar and spread meringue 
over pie, touching crust. Sprinkle coconut on top and bake at 300° 
until brown. Serves 8. 

Mrs. Cornetius Hucuentn (Evelyn Anderson) 


223 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Peach Meringue Pie 


5-6 ripe peaches 2 egg whites 
1-2 tablespoons sugar 4 tablespoons confectioners 
Few drops lemon juice or granulated sugar 


Prepare a baked pie shell—7 inch. Peel and slice fresh peaches, 
sprinkling a little sugar over them according to their sweetness, also 
the lemon juice. 

Whip eggs until stiff, then beat in the sugar, % teaspoon at a 
time—this is important. Continue beating until mixture is very 
heavy and stands in peaks. Place the peaches in the shell, cover 
with meringue. Bake in slow oven (300°) for 15 minutes or a little 
longer, until top of meringue is brownish. 

Mrs. PETER GETHING (Janet Quinn) 


Huckleberry Pie 


3% cups berries, fresh or 1 tablespoon flour 
canned Little butter 

34 cups sugar and 2 1 lemon 
teaspoons Little cream 


Wash and drain fresh berries or drain canned ones. Put in 
pastry-lined 9-inch pie plate. Mix flour with 34 cup sugar. Pour 
over berries. Dot with butter. Sprinkle with lemon juice and some 
of rind cut in small pieces. Cover with top crust, brush with cream, 
sprinkle with sugar. Bake in hot oven (425°) 15 minutes, decrease 
heat to moderate (350°) and bake 20-30 minutes longer. 

Mrs. THoMas Lecarg, Jr. (Laura Hasell) 


Apple Crumb Pie 


5-6 tart apples 1 cup flour 
2 tablespoons sugar 1 cup brown sugar 
1 teaspoon nutmeg Y% cup butter 


8 tablespoons milk 
Mix sugar and nutmeg. Pour over apples sliced very thin into 
pie pan lined with pastry. Place brown sugar and flour in a bowl, 
cut butter into this until crumbly. Pour this over apples, and on 
top, pour milk. Bake in moderate oven (850°) until done. 
Mrs. JAMES SNOWDEN, Jr. (Anne Hutchins) 


224 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Pecan Pie 
Y% cup pecan meats 3 eggs, beaten lightly 
1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon melted butter 
1 cup dark corn syrup 1 teaspoon vanilla, scant 


Mix sugar, butter, syrup and vanilla. Add to beaten eggs. Then 
add pecans. Pour into pie pan lined with good rich pastry. Bake in 
375° oven for 30 minutes. May be served with whipped cream. 

Mrs. JAMES Hacoop (Antoinette Camp) 


Pecan Pie 
% cup brown sugar 1 egg 
Y% cup white cane syrup 1 pinch salt 
2 tablespoons milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 heaping tablespoon corn 1 cup pecan meats 
meal Butter size of an egg 


Mix in order listed, pour into pie pan lined with pastry. Bake 
in 875° oven for 25 minutes. 
Mrs. RicHarp HaNnckeL (Ruth Farmer) 


Pumpkin Pie 


1 cup stewed pumpkin Y% teaspoon salt 
1 cup brown sugar 2 cups milk 
1 teaspoon ground ginger 2 tablespoons melted 
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon butter 
2 eggs 


Add sugar and seasonings to the pumpkin and mix well. Add 
slightly beaten eggs and milk. Lastly, stir in melted butter. Turn 
into pie plate lined with pastry and bake in hot oven (425°) for 5 
minutes. Lower heat to moderate (350°) and bake until filling is 
set. A knife inserted in center will come out clean when center is 
done. Serve thoroughly cold. 

Mrs. S. Epwarp Izarp, Jr. (Anne Kirk) 


225 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. Coleock’s Mince Meat 


1 beef tongue 2 pounds sugar 

2 pounds raisins 1 dozen apples 

1 pound citron ¥Y% ounce cinnamon 
2 pounds beef suet 4 ounce mace 

1 quart wine (sherry) % ounce nutmeg 
1 pint whiskey 1 teaspoon salt 


Cover tongue with boiling water and simmer gently until tend- 
er, stand aside to cool. Shred the suet and chop it fine. Pare, core 
and chop apples, stone raisins, shred citron. When meat is perfectly 
cold, chop it fine. Mix thoroughly with other prepared ingredients, 
adding the spices. Pack in stone jar. Pour wine and whiskey over 
mixture. Cover closely and store in a cool place. It will kee 
all winter. When ready to use, dip out quantity desired, thin wi 
cider or wine, if necessary. Place in pie pan lined with pastry, 
cover with top crust, pricking or cutting designs in cover to allow 
steam to escape. Bake in a hot oven 450° for 30 minutes. For 
special occasions serve vanilla ice cream on slices of steaming hot 
nince pie. 

Mrs. GaBriEL CANNON (Jeannie Heyward) 


Chocolate Angel Pie 


2 egg whites 1% teaspoons vanilla 
Y teaspoon salt 1 cake sweet chocolate 
¥ teaspoon cream of tartar (14 pound) 

Y% cup sugar 3 tablespoons hot water 
Y% cup chopped nuts 1 cup cream 


Beat egg whites until foamy, add salt and cream of tartar. Beat 
until mixture stands in soft peaks. Add sugar gradually, beat until 
very stiff. Fold in chopped nuts and 1% teaspoon vanilla. Turn 
into lightly greased 8-inch pie plate. Make a nest-like shell, build- 
ing up side above edge of plate. Bake in a slow oven (300°) for 35 
minutes. Cool. 

Melt chocolate in double-boiler, add hot water and blend. Cool. 
Add 1 teaspoon vanilla. Fold in whipped cream. Turn into mer- 
ingue shell. Chill. Serves 6. 

Mrs. Joun E. Burrows (Bess Smith) 


226 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mulberry Plantation 


Lemon Cream Meringue 


4 egg whites (at room Y% cup sugar 

temperature ) 2 teaspoons grated lemon 
Y% teaspoon cream of tartar rind 
1 cup sugar 3 tablespoons lemon juice 
4 egg yolks 2 cups cream 


1 tablespoon sugar 


Beat whites until foamy. Add cream of tartar and beat until 
they start to stiffen. Add cup of sugar gradually (about 2 table- 
spoons at a time), and continue beating until meringue is glossy 
and stiff enough to hold its shape. Spread on a lightly buttered 9 
inch pie or cake pan. Make outside rim higher than middle. Bake 
in a slow oven (800°) 40 minutes. While this is cooling, beat yolks 
until thick and lemon colored. Beat in %4 cup sugar, lemon juice 
and rind. Cook in double-boiler about 15 to 20 minutes until thick. 
Cool. Whip 1 cup cream. Fold it into lemon mixture blending 
thoroughly. Fill center of meringue with this mixture and chill in 
refrigerator 8 to 16 hours. When ready to serve, cover top with 
cup of cream whipped with tablespoon of sugar. 

Mrs. LAwRENCE A. WALKER, JR. (Phyllis Corson) 


Caramel Pie 


1% cups sugar 1%4 cups water 
1 stick butter (14 cup) 2 eggs 
8 tablespoons cornstarch 1 teaspoon vanilla 


1 tablespoon sugar 


Scorch one half the sugar, pour water in and add rest of sugar 
and butter. When butter is melted, mix cornstarch with a little 
water and add, stirring constantly. Take off and cool. Add beaten 
egg yolks and vanilla. Put caramel filling on baked crust in pie 
plate. Make meringue of egg whites and extra tablespoon of sugar. 
Place on top of pie, run in oven (800°) to brown. 

Mrs. J. STANYARNE STEVENS (Caroline Simonds) 


227 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Rum Pie 
1 tablespoon gelatine 2 tablespoons rum 
Y% cup cold water 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 cups cream Pinch of salt 
2 eggs—separated 1 baked 9” pie shell or 
Y% cup and 6 tablespoons 8-10 baked tart shells 
sugar 1 square of chocolate 


Soak gelatine in water 5 minutes. Scald cream in top of 
double-boiler. Beat egg yolks with fork; stir in salt and %4 cup 
sugar. Add scalded cream slowly to yolks, stirring constantly. 
Place over boiling water, continue stirring until smooth and slightly 
thickened, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat, add gelatine, stir 
until dissolved. Pour into a bowl and chill until it begins to thick- 
en. Beat egg whites stiff, gradually add 6 tablespoons sugar, con- 
tinue beating until stiff. Fold whites into custard with rum and 
vanilla. Pour in baked shell, chill until set. Just before serving, 
shave a square of chocolate with a sharp straight edged knife, 
sprinkle shavings on pie. 

Mrs. JoHN Laurens (May Rose) 


Sweet Potato Pie 


3 large sweet potatoes Y, teaspoon nutmeg 
2 tablespoons butter 1 egg 

Y% cup sugar 2 egg whites 

Y% teaspoon cinnamon 4 teaspoons sugar 


Boil potatoes until soft. Peel and mash well with 2 tablespoons 
butter. Add sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg and egg, well beaten. Fill 
cooked pastry shell and cover with meringue made of beaten egg 
whites and 4 teaspoons of sugar. Brown in medium oven. Serves 6. 


Mrs. THomas WarInG, Jr. (Clelia Mathewes) 


Transparent Tarts 


Y% cup butter 1 pound citron, chopped 
2 cups brown sugar 5 eggs (or more) 
1 cup cream, whipped 


228 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Melt butter, add sugar and citron. Beat in eggs, one at a time. 
Cook in double-boiler, stirring until consistency of thick custard. 
Fills about 12 small tart shells. Serve with unsweetened whipped 
cream. 

Miss MARTHA CARRINGTON 


Bakewell Tart 


¥Y% pound short pie crust 2 egg yolks 

2 ounces ground almonds 1 egg white 

2 ounces sugar Essence of almonds 
2 ounces butter Raspberry jam 


Cream butter and sugar until smooth and thick. Add egg yolks 
and white of egg, also almonds and essence. Beat well. Line 
a pie plate with pastry. Place a good layer of jam on bottom and 
cover with the butter and egg mixture. Bake in a quick oven for 
80 minutes. Serve hot or cold. 

Miss Jutia C. CONNER 


Sherry Tarts 


% cup sugar ¥% cup milk 

¥% cup flour 3 tablespoons sherry 

Y%% teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon sugar 

2 eggs Grated nutmeg 

2 cups cream 8 tart shells, medium size 


Mix dry ingredients. Add eggs, slightly beaten. Blend thor- 
oughly. Reserve % cup cream. Scald rest of cream and milk then 
pour it gradually over egg mixture, stirring constantly. Cook about 
15 minutes in top of double-boiler, continuing to stir so flour will 
not lump. Cool, add sherry. Whip reserved cream with teaspoon 
of sugar until it is thick but not quite stiff. Fill shells with custard, 
top with cream and grate a dash of nutmeg over each. Rum may 
be substituted for sherry, using only 2 tablespoons. 

Mrs. ArTHur J. Stoney (Anne Montague) 


229 


CAKES 


“No, Ma’am’, I ain’ fuh measure. I jes’ jedge by my own repin- 
ion. I teck muh flour en’ muh brown sugah, en’ two-tree glub uh 
muhlassis.” “What do you mean by glub?” “You know de soun’ 
muhlassis meck w’en ’e come fum de jug? Glub! Glubl” 


Whenever I boil or brew or bake, 

How hard I try! What pains I takel 

There isn’t a step I don't discuss. 

My measuring is meticulous. 

And what’s the result of the fuss and fiddle? 
My cake sinks heavily in the middle 

Then old Maria follows me 

With a hand that’s deft and a smile of glee. 
With a touch as light as an angel’s kiss, 

She stirs in a little of that or this, 

With lavish seasoning “to taste” 

And calm indifference to waste. 

Though her method is all a grave mistake, 
The result is always a super-cakel 


Lady Baltimore Cake 
Owen Wister immortalized Charleston’s Lady Baltimore Tea 
Room and its glamorous cake in his book “Lady Baltimore.” This 


is the frst time this long sought after and particular receipt for it 
has been given. 


1 cup butter 3% cups cake flour 
3 cups sugar 4 teaspoons baking powder 
4 eggs 2 teaspoons vanilla 
1 cup milk 2 teaspoons almond extract 


% cup water 


Use electric mixer, if possible; cream butter, add 2 cups sugar 
gradually and beat until the consistency of whipped cream. Add 
eggs, one at a time, and beat thoroughly. Stiff baking powder and 
flour three times and add alternately with milk, using a wooden 
spoon for blending. Bake in two 11” greased cake pans in 350° 
oven 30 minutes. Make a thick syrup of 1 cup of sugar and % cup 
of water. Flavor with almond and vanilla. Spread this over your 
layers as soon as you remove them from the pans. 


230 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


FROSTING 
2 cups sugar * 2 cups seeded raisins 
73 cup water 2 cups pecans or walnuts 
2 egg whites (beaten stiff) 12 figs 
2 teaspoons corn syrup Almond and vanilla extract 


Mix sugar, water and syrup. Cook until it forms a firm ball in 
cold water. Pour gradually into the stiff egg whites, beating con- 
stantly. Now add raisins, pecan nuts, and figs all cut fine. Raisins 
and figs may be soaked overnight in small amount of sherry or 
brandy, if desired. Add almond and vanilla extracts to taste. Spread 
between layers, on top and sides of cake. 

Mrs. Howarp Reap (Adelaide Higgins) 


Charleston Devils 


Another specialty of the Lady Baltimore Tea Room were these 
delectable chocolate cakes. 


¥Y, stick butter 34 cup buttermilk 
1 cup sugar 2 cups flour 

1 egg 1 teaspoon soda 
4 squares chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup sweet milk Pinch of salt 


Cook sweet milk, chocolate and butter in top of double-boiler, 
stirring until thick. Set aside to cool. Cream sugar and egg to- 
gether; add to cooled chocolate mixture. Sift flour, soda and salt 
three times; add to mixture alternately with buttermilk. Add 
vanilla. Cook in pan lined with wax paper 25 minutes in a slow 
oven. Cut into squares. Makes 3 dozen cakes. 


ICING 
1 box confectioners sugar ¥% block butter or oleo 
4 heaping tablespoons cocoa 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Add boiling water enough to mix. Stir until smooth and add 
vanilla. If icing is runny add more sugar. Spread on cakes. 
Mrs. EvizaBETH L. HaNanan (Elizabeth Lucas) 


231 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mocha Cakes 


¥% cup butter 3 level teaspoons baking 
1 cup sugar powder 

2 cups sifted flour (scant) Saltspoon of salt 

3 eggs (small) 

1 teaspoon vanilla % cup milk 


Lemon peel, grated 


Cream butter and sugar very light. Add eggs, one at a time. 
Beat very light. Sift in flour, baking powder and salt. Add milk 
and vanilla and a small amount of grated peel. Bake in shallow 
square pans in moderate oven 30-40 minutes. Cut in small squares; 
ice. Yield: 6 doz. 


MOCHA ICING 


¥% pound butter 1¥, tablespoons brandy, rum, 
10 ounces x x x x sugar coffee or whiskey 


Y% pound shelled almonds 


Add sugar to butter gradually and beat to a light cream. Add 
the spirits or coffee. Blanch and parch almonds, grind rather fine. 
Spread butter mixture on top and sides, a little thicker on top. 
Then sprinkle generously with ground almonds which should be 
light brown, but thoroughly parched. Icing melts in hot weather. 

Miss VaLERIA CHISOLM 


Mrs. Fairfax Montague’s 
Old Time Sponge Cake 


8 eggs 2 cups flour (sifted) 
2 cups sugar 1¥ teaspoons vinegar 


1 dessertspoon vanilla 


Separate eggs and beat in different bowls, adding 1 cup of 
sugar to each mixture. Put together and add the vinegar and sifted 
flour. Add vanilla and bake in slow oven (250°) for 80 minutes 
and in quicker oven for 30 minutes longer, in an angel food cake pan. 

Mrs. Lionet Lecce (Dorothy H. Porcher) 


232 


— 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Old-Fashioned Pound Cake 


1 pound granulated sugar Y% teaspoon mace 

1 pound butter Y% teaspoon vanilla 

10 eggs 1 teaspoon lemon extract 
1 pound plain flour 1 teaspoon almond extract 


1 teaspoon baking powder 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and continue beating; then 
add egg yolks beaten until thick and lemon colored. Sift flour and 
baking powder together and add gradually to mixture, beating after 
each addition; then add mace and extracts to taste; lastly fold in 
egg whites which have been beaten until stiff. 

Beat vigorously for five minutes. Then put into a well-buttered 
tube pan (or plain baking pan which has been lined with two thick- 
nesses of buttered brown paper.) 

Bake in slow oven (250°) for about 11%4 hours in tube pan, or 
2 hours in lined pan. (If cake seems a little too brown during last 
part of baking period, place a large piece of brown paper lightly on 
top of pan for a little while). 

Miss HELEN O’SHAUGHNESSY 


Coconut Cake 
34 cup butter (1% blocks) 34 cup milk 


2 cups sugar 3 cups flour 
4 eggs (separated) 3 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar. Add well-beaten egg yolks. Then 
alternately add milk and flour which has been sifted with the baking 
powder. Then add stiffly beaten egg whites and vanilla. Bake in 
two 9” layer pans, greased and lined on bottom with waxed paper, 
in 375° oven for 25 to 30 minutes. 

ICING 
3 cups sugar 3 egg whites 
1 coconut (grated) 

Moisten sugar with cold water and boil until it threads. Then 
pour over stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Spread on cake and sprinkle 
generously with coconut. 

Mrs. N. I. Baxi, Jr. (Anne Barnwell) 


233 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Chocolate Angel Food Cake 


114 cups egg whites 1 teaspoon cream of tartar 
114 cups sugar 4 teaspoon salt 

34 cup flour 1 teaspoon vanilla 

Yq cup cocoa Few drops lemon extract 


Beat egg whites until foamy, add cream of tartar and continue 
beating until stiff, but not dry. Gradually beat in sugar. Add vanilla 
and lemon extract and cut and fold in flour and cocoa which have 
been sifted together five times. Turn into angel food tin and bake 
in moderate oven about | hour and 15 minutes. Set oven at 275° 
and gradually increase heat until 325° is reached. Cover with 
seven-minute frosting to which has been added 8-10 marshmallows. 


Mrs. CorNELIUS HucuENin (Evelyn Anderson) 


Chocolate Cake with Mocha Frosting 


2 cups brown sugar 14 cup warm water with 

¥Y% cup butter, creamed 1 teaspoon soda 

2 eggs, beaten together dissolved in it 

¥Y% cup sour milk 2 cups flour, sifted with 

2 squares chocolate, melted Y% teaspoon baking 
powder 


1 teaspoon vanilla 


Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, then add milk, water, and 
flour, alternating liquids and flour, beating until smooth each time. 
Add vanilla and chocolate and bake in greased tins in 850° oven 
Y hour. 


FROSTING 
3 cups confectioners sugar, creamed with 3 tablespoons butter. 


Use 5 or 6 tablespoons cold strong coffee to soften while creaming. 


Add 6 teaspoons dry cocoa and a little vanilla. Cool cake before 
frosting. 


Mrs. Parker Jones (Elisabeth Howard ) 


234 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Scripture Cake 


42 cups (Ist Kings 4—22) Flour 
1 cup (Judges 5—25 

last clause) Butter 
2 cups (jeremiah 6—20) Sugar 
2 cups (1st Samuel 80—12) Raisins 
2 cups (Nahum 3—12) Figs 
2 cups (Numbers 17—18) Almonds 
2 tablespoons (Ist Samuel 

14-18) Honey 
1 pinch (Leviticus 2—-18) Salt 
6 (Jeremiah 17-11) Eggs 
% cup (Judges 4—19) Milk 


(last clause) 
2 tablespoons (Amos 4—5) Leaven 
Season to taste with (2nd Chronicles 9—9) spices. Mix like 
a fruit cake and bake. 
Mrs. Haroip G. DotTerer (Harriet Lipscomb) 


Black Fruit Cake 


1% pounds butter 1 tablespoon powdered mace 
1% pounds brown sugar 3 tablespoons powdered 

1% pounds flour cinnamon 

3 pounds seeded raisins 1 tablespoon powdered 

3 pounds currants cloves 

2 pounds chopped citron 2 wine glasses whiskey 

12 eggs or brandy 

1 cup strong coffee 1 wine glass rose water 


Soften butter by soaking in tepid water in covered bowl for a 
few minutes. Drain. Cream butter, rub in sugar slowly. Add eggs, 
one at a time, beating each before adding. Sift in half of flour. 
Mix fruit with rest of flour and spices. Stir in floured fruit, add 
coffee and flavoring. Pre-heat oven to 350°. Turn down after 10 
minutes to as low as it will burn. Bake 5 to 6 hours, testing with a 
straw. This is a fine wedding or Christmas cake. Weighs about - 
15 pounds when iced. 

Mrs. McIver Wizur (Susan Prioleau) 


235 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


White Fruit Cake 


1% pounds citron (cut fine) 1 pound butter 


1% pounds sultana raisins, 1 pound sugar 
washed and dried 1 pound flour 
1% pounds blanched ground _— 2. tablespoons nutmeg 
almonds 1 teaspoon almond extract 
1 small grated coconut 1 tablespoon vanilla extract 
1% pounds crystallized Y% pint sherry or coconut 
pineapple (cut fine) milk 
6 eggs 


Cream butter and sugar and add eggs one by one, beating well 
after each egg is added. Put half of flour over fruit and other half 
over butter mixture. Mix all ingredients well. 

Line the sides and bottom of the greased cake pan with greased 
brown paper. Place cake in pan of water, cover and steam for 
3% hours in oven at 875°. Remove cover, also pan with water, 
and bake for %4 hour at 325°. Cake will weigh about 8 pounds. 

Mrs. FeLrx Cutso.m (Elizabeth Simonds) 


White Fruit Cake 


‘1 pound butter 1% pounds almonds 
1 pound sugar 1 tablespoonful rose water 
1 pound flour 1 cup good sherry wine 
10 eggs 4 teaspoons baking 
2 pounds candied pineapple powder 

(scrape off sugar) 1 grated fresh coconut 
1% pounds citron (optional ) 


2 pounds candied cherries 

Blanch almonds. Cut up fruit and nuts. Cream butter and 
sugar. Add eggs, two at a time, beating after each addition. Add 
flavoring. Sift flour and baking powder over finely cut-up fruit 
and nuts. Mix in thoroughly. Pour batter over fruit mixture and 
mix well. (I use hands.) Line two tube pans with well-greased 
brown paper. (Any good baking utensil may be used as long 
as it is proper depth.) Steam three hours. Bake in oven %4 hour 
at 325°. 

Mrs. Artuur Rivers (Louisa Taber) 


236 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Old Time Wedding Cake 


“Old Time Wedding Cake has been used by members of my 
family for upwards of seventy years. More often at Christmas sea- 
son than weddings.” 


2 pounds raisins 1 pound butter 

21% pounds currants 9 eggs 

1 pound citron 1 wine glass whiskey 
1%4 pounds sugar 1 wine glass sherry 

34 pound flour 1 teaspoon mixed spices 


1 teaspoon baking powder 


Chop raisins and citron, wash and drain currants. Sift flour 
with baking powder into fruit and mix thoroughly. Separate eggs. 
Cream yolks, butter and sugar thoroughly. Add stiffly beaten egg 
whites and then fruit mixture. Mix and knead with hands. Stir 
in liquor and spices. Divide into two deep 10-inch cake pans lined 
with well greased wax paper. Cook in covered steamer four and a 
half to five hours. If you have no steamer, put in a dish pan of 
water (cover well, and let boil on top of stove). 

Mrs. Pure G. PorcHER, Sr. (Mary Cordes) 


“Carolina Housewife” 


Wedding Cake of 1850! 


20 pounds butter 20 nutmegs 

20 pounds sugar 1 ounce mace 

20 pounds flour 4 ounces cinnamon 
20 pounds raisins 20 glasses wine 

40 pounds currants 20 glasses brandy 
12 pounds citron 10 eggs to the pound 


Add cloves to your taste. If you wish it richer, add 2 pounds 
of currants, and 1 pound of raisins to each pound of flour. 
Miss Mary Deas RAVENEL 


237 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cheese Cake 


34 package zwieback (or ¥Y, teaspoon salt 
graham crackers) 5¥2 packages (3 oz.) 


cream cheese 
2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Sugar (4 cup plus 2 4 egg yolks 
tablespoons ) 1 cup heavy cream 
2 tablespoons of flour 4 egg whites 


Roll zwiebacks into fine crumbs and blend with butter and 2 
tablespoons of sugar. Press mixture into bottom and sides of a 9- 
inch spring-form mold. Blend together %4 cup sugar, flour, salt and 
cream cheese, add vanilla and egg yolks. Mix well, add heavy 
cream and mix again. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into 
mold on top of crumbs and bake in a moderate oven 325° to 350°, 
about 114 hours or until “set” in the middle. Cool before serving. 

| Mrs. Jack Krawcueck (Esther Bielsky) 


Sour Milk Ginger Cake 


% cup butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 
Y% cup sugar 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 egg well beaten Y% teaspoon salt 

Y% cup molasses % cup sour milk 

1% cups flour 2 tablespoons sugar 

¥% teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon cinnamon 


Cream butter and sugar thoroughly, add egg and molasses, 
blend. Add next five ingredients, sifted, alternately with milk, 
beat until smooth. Pour into buttered pan and sprinkle top with 
sugar and cinnamon. Bake in moderate oven (350° F.) for 45 
minutes. Serves about 15 people. 

Mrs. R. C. Muiuin (Hasell Townsend) 


238 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Almond Cake 


3 eggs 34 cup sugar 

1¥% sticks butter 3 oz. ground almonds, 

Few drops of almond (ground very fine) 
extract 1 cup flour (sifted) 


Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add eggs, well beaten, then 
flour, almonds and extract. Put in greased loaf-tin lined with grease- 
proof paper and cover top with grease-proof paper. Bake 1 hour 
in moderate oven. 

~ Mrs. Louis McCrapy (Eleanor Laurens) 


Chocolate Waldorf Cake 


1 cup sugar Pinch of salt 

2 cups plain flour 1 cup cold water 
(unsifted ) 1 teaspoon vanilla 

4 level tablespoons cocoa 1 cup mayonnaise 

2 level teaspoons baking (commercial brand) 
soda 2 heaping tablespoons 


seeded blackberry jam 
Sift sugar, flour, cocoa, soda and salt together. Add mayon- 
naise, water, vanilla, blackberry jam. Stir and beat 1 minute. Bake 
in two layers in 350° oven for 25 or 30 minutes. Cover with Seven- 
Minute Icing. 
Mrs. W. E. Amos (Marie Weatherford) 


Egeless-Butterless Cake 


2 cups flour 1% teaspoons baking 
1 cup sugar powder 

1% teaspoons soda 4 tablespoons cocoa 
1 cup salad dressing 1 cup cold water 


(commercial brand) 

Blend all dry ingredients well. Then add mayonnaise well 
mixed with 1 cup cold water. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes in two 
layer pans. 

Ice with rich chocolate icing. 

Mrs. Kirk Lyncu (Juanita Kirk) 


239 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Sugarless Yellow Cake 


3 cups flour 2 teaspoons grated orange 
YZ, teaspoon salt rind 
4 teaspoons baking powder ¥% teaspoon almond extract 
% cup butter or 2 teaspoons vanilla 
114 cups white corn syrup 3 eggs 

1 cup milk 


Orange marmalade or other preserves 


Sift flour once before measuring; resift twice with salt and 
baking powder. Beat butter until creamy; beat 1 cup corn syrup, 
orange rind and flavoring into butter gradually. Beat egg yolks 
until light, then add to batter. Beat for one minute. Add sifted 
ingredients in three parts, alternately with the milk. Beat batter 
after each addition until well blended. Beat egg whites until stiff 
but not dry and add % cup corn syrup. Fold into batter. Bake in 
two 9-inch greased pans about 25 minutes in 375° oven. Place 
marmalade or preserves between layers. 


Mrs. R. M. AnpEerson (Dorothy Middleton) 


Kiggless, Milkless, Butterless Cake 


2 cups brown sugar 1 package seedless raisins 
2 cups hot water 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 tablespoons shortening 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon salt 3 cups sifted flour 

1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon hot water 


Boil together sugar, water, lard, salt, raisins and spices for 
five minutes. When cold add the flour and the soda dissolved in 
a teaspoon of hot water. This makes two loaves, bread pan size. 
Bake in 325° oven about 45 minutes. This cake is good texture and 
keeps moist for some time. 


Mrs. Joun Laurens (May Rose) 
240 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Almond Paste for Fruit Cake 


1 pound blanched almonds, 2 egg whites, unbeaten 
ground fine 1 teaspoon rose water 
1 pound confectioners sugar § 2 teaspoons almond extract 


Combine egg whites with the sugar; add flavorings and cream 
well; add almonds. This covers top of a 6-pound fruit cake gen- 


erously. 
Mrs. JoHN Laurens (May Rose) 


Uncooked Fruit Cake Icing 


2 pounds xxxx sugar Orange or almond extract 
3 small or 2 large egg or rose water may 
whites be added 


Juice of 1 or 2 lemons 


Combine ingredients. Beat and continue beating until con- 
sistency to use for spreading and decorating. Flavor to taste. 


Should cover 10-pound cake. 
Miss VALERIA CHISOLM 


White Icing for Fruit Cake 


2 cups granulated sugar 2 egg whites 
1 cup water 8 marshmallows 
3 tablespoons lemon juice 


Beat egg whites stiff. Boil sugar and water until it will spin a 
thread. Add half of this to egg whites. Leave other half to sim- 
mer slowly. Beat syrup and eggs, add flavoring and marshmallows, 
one at a time. Add remaining syrup and continue to beat until 
creamy, then spread over cake. Will cover top and sides of 10-pound 


Mas. Wrt1aM Martin (Bettina Parker) 


241 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Never-Fail Icing (Seven Minute) 


1 cup granulated sugar 3 tablespoons water 
Y% teaspoon cream of tartar 2 unbeaten egg whites 
1 teaspoon vanilla 


Put all ingredients but vanilla in top of double boiler under 
which water is already boiling. Beat until it stands in peaks. 
For fruit icings (such as orange, pineapple, etc.), use 3 table- 
spoons of the juice in place of water and 3 tablespoons grated or 
chopped fruit in place of vanilla. 
Mrs. Jack T. WALKER (Margaret Ficken) 


Orange Icing 


134 cups granulated sugar Zest (rind) of % orange 
¥% cup cold water Zest (rind) of % lemon 
Yolks of 3 eggs 1 teaspoon orange juice 


1 teaspoon lemon juice 


Dissolve granulated sugar in cold water. Stir until partly dis- 
solved, then boil without stirring until it spins long hairs when a 
fork is dipped into it. Into the thoroughly beaten yolks, vigorously 
stir the zest of orange and the zest of lemon. Pour syrup very slowly 
over the eggs and when it begins to thicken, add orange and lemon 
juices. 

Mrs. T. Lapson Wess, Jr. (Anne Moore) 


Easy Caramel Frosting 


34 cup firmly packed “4 cup granulated sugar 
brown sugar % cup mi 


1 tablespoon butter or oleo 


Boil first 3 ingredients until syrup forms a soft ball in cold 
water (232°). Add butter. Cool to lukewarm (110°). Beat until 
thick and creamy. If icing has been cooked too long add a few drops 
of heavy cream. If using this receipt for a large layer cake, double 
the ingredients. 


Mrs. Harotp Perrrr (Corinne Neely) 
242 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Chocolate Icing (For Cakes or Layer-Cake) 


“This is a receipt from the famous Theus family of bakers. The 
Theus trio came to Charleston from New Orleans. They sold 
cookies and cakes, pies and pastries here in the eighteen seventies 
and eighties. Even in those days their special cake, which had to 
be ordered days in advance, cost three dollars!|—and you furnished 
your own quart of cream! This chocolate icing was for a lesser cake, 
but, as far as my knowledge goes, this is the only receipt of theirs 
which has survived.” 


1 cup granulated sugar 1 tablespoon vanilla essence 
\% pound bitter pinch salt 
cake-chocolate 4 tablespoons (approx.) 
¥ pound butter cream 
2 egg yolks 


Dissolve sugar in cream. Add chocolate, butter and salt. Cook 
very slowly until all ingredients are dissolved. (Beginners may 
prefer to use a double-boiler). Add beaten egg yolks by first pour- 
ing hot mixture over them and then returning to saucepan. Con- 
tinue to cook very slowly—do not boil—until mixture is thick. This 
will be about five minutes. Remove from stove. Add vanilla essence 
and beat until cool enough to spread on cake. This will ice, thickly, 
a two layer cake. 

Mrs. CLEMENTS Ripiey (Katherine Ball) 


Smooth Fudge Frosting 


2 tablespoons shortening 7 tablespoons milk 
2 tablespoons margarine 1% cups sugar 
1 tablespoon corn syrup Yé teaspoon salt 
2 squares chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Combine all ingredients except vanilla. Cook in heavy sauce- 
pan until it boils rapidly (low heat) and boil 1 minute only. Cool 
before adding vanilla, then beat till smooth. Will frost two 9” layers. 

Mrs. A. Franz Wirre, Jr. (Lula Thomas Jenkins) 


243 


MS 
“S 


SO 


—Elizabeth O’Neill Verner 
ST. MICHAEL’S CHURCH 1752 


COOKIES 


Do, Chile! I ain’ got time fuh mek fancy cooky. Teck dis penny 
en go git uh horse-gunjuh. 


I do respect that iron man 

Who, when he’s faced with cookies, can 
Confine himself to one or two 

And leave the rest for me and youl 


Rolled Sweet Wafers 


Cream ¥% cup of butter and % cup (little over) of sugar then 


add: 
One egg One teaspoon vanilla 
¥% cup milk (or enough One cup plain flour, 
to make it like cake by degrees. 
batter ) 


Put batter in hot wafer iron (greased on both sides) with tea- 
spoon. Turn to cook on each side. Take out with knife and roll at 
once. Keep in tin can, or will get soft immediately. Yield: 134 doz. 

Miss THEODORA GREGORIE 


Scones 


“Among the rich and crumbly delights to serve with jams and 
marmalade, are Scones, those our Grandmothers loved to make; 
not too sweet, not too hearty, but just right as a morsel of goodness 
to go with the hospitable gesture of a cup of tea and a good gossip.” 


2 cups flour 4 tablespoons butter 
2 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 
4 cup cream 5 teaspoons sugar 


3 teaspoons baking powder 


Sift dry ingredients, rub in the butter with fingertips. Beat 
eggs, add cream and mix gently with flour mixture. Roll out to one 
half inch in thickness; cut in shapes. Brush with white of egg. Bake 
about 15 minutes in a moderate oven 375°. Yield: 2 dozen. 

Mrs. Louis Y. Dawson, Jr. (Virginia Walker) 


245 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Benne (Sesame) 


“According to legend among descendants of negro slaves along 
the coast of Charleston, benne is a good luck plant for those who 
eat thereof or plant in their gardens. It was originally brought in 
by the slaves from West Africa to this Coastal region.” 


Benne Seed Wafers 


2 cups brown sugar 1 egg, beaten 

1 cup plain flour 1 block butter, or 34 cup 
¥% teaspoon baking powder cooking oil or oleo 
\% teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 


34 cup benne seed (toasted) 


Cream the butter and sugar, add beaten egg, then flour sifted 
with salt and baking powder. Add vanilla and benne seed. Drop 
by teaspoon on greased cookie sheet. Bake in moderate oven 325°. 
Cook quickly. Allow to cool one minute before removing from pan. 
This makes a transparent wafer. Yield: about 100. 


Mrs. Gustave P. Ricuarps (Lizetta Wagener) 


Benne Cookies 


34 cup butter 1% cups flour 
1% cups of brown sugar ¥% cup benne (toasted) 
2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Y% teaspoon baking powder 


Cream butter and sugar together and mix with other ingre- 
dients, in the order given. Drop with a teaspoon on waxed paper in 
pan far enough apart to allow spreading. Bake in moderate oven 
325° for 30 minutes. Yield: 7 dozen. | 


Mrs. Maynard Marsuatu (Harriott Simons) 


246 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Very Thin Benne Cookies 


34 cup melted butter 1 egg 

34 cup flour 1 cup benne seed 

1% cups light brown sugar Y% teaspoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon vanilla % teaspoon salt 


Mix and drop on greased pan; let in run. Bake in 875° oven 
and cook till brown. Remove from pan while hot. Yield: about 50. 


Mrs. L. L. Oxiveros (Evelyn Kenan) 


Cookies 


: 1 cup butter & “Ya. teaspoon of salt 
4 ¥, cup brown sugar J ¥ teaspoon soda 
¥%, cup white sugar % teaspoon of vanilla 
) I, egg beaten 1. cup finely cut pecan nut 
, 2 cups of flour meats 
Cream butter; add sugar and egg. Sift in flour which has been 
sifted with soda and salt, then add nuts and vanilla. Form in rolls, 
wrap in waxed paper and allow to stand in refrigerator over night. 
Slice and bake in hot oven. (400°F.). Yield: 90 cookies. 
Coconut can be used instead of nuts. A teaspoon of cinnamon 
can be added when nuts are used for variety. Or sprinkle sugar, 
cinnamon and nutmeg on cookies before baking. 


Mrs. Water A. Davis (Genevieve Lockwood ) 


Nut Cookies 


Y% pound butter ¥% cup flour 
4 cup brown sugar 1 egg 
Y% cup white sugar % pound pecans, cut fine 


Cream butter and sugar. Add egg, then flour sifted, then the 
nut meats cut fine. Drop on greased cookie sheet with teaspoon. 
Bake in moderate oven (350°); cook quickly. Yield: 50 cookies 


Mprs. J. WALKER CoLEMAN (Felicia Chisolm) 


247 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Brownies 
1% sticks butter 1 cup nut meats 
2 cups sugar 1 heaping cup flour 
4 squares chocolate ¥% teaspoon salt 
4 eggs (beaten together) 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Cream butter, add melted chocolate and all other ingredients. 
Spread on greased cookie pan and bake 20 to 25 minutes in 350° 
oven. Cut in squares while hot. Yield: about 20. 

Mrs. W. Lucas VENNiNG (Ruth Gibson) 


Brownies 
% pound butter 2 cups sugar 
2 or 3 squares unsweetened 1 cup flour 
chocolate 1 cup nuts chopped 
2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Melt butter and chocolate over low flame. Pour over sugar and 
mix. Add eggs, and flour which has been sifted, vanilla and chop- 
ped nuts. Put in greased pan (about 7x10) and bake very slowly 
for about 30 minutes in oven at 350°. Cut into squares when taken 
from oven. Let cool before removing from pan. Yield: about 30. 


Mrs. Gustave P. Ricarps (Lizetta Wagener) 


Brown Sugar Brownies 


1 cup dark brown sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 
% cup melted butter Y3 teaspoon salt 

1 egg, well beaten 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 scant cup flour 34 cup nut meats 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cream together brown sugar and butter. Add the egg. Sift 
together the flour, baking powder and salt. Add and mix with sugar 
and butter. Add vanilla and nuts. Pour into greased 8-inch square 
tin. Bake 20 to 25 minutes in 350° oven. Cut in squares. Yield: 16. 


Mrs. Tuomas P. Stoney (Beverly DuBose) 


Coconut Brownies 


Y% cup soft butter or oleo 2 eggs, beaten 
1 cup sifted flour 4 teaspoon vanilla 
4 tablespoons brown sugar 1 cup coconut 
114 cups brown sugar 1 cup pecans 


¥Y% teaspoon baking powder 


Mix first three ingredients (butter, flour, 4 tablespoons brown 
sugar.) Bake in 9” square pan in 375° oven for 20 minutes. Then 
mix other ingredients, adiling each in the order listed. Spread this 
on top of first mixture and bake again for a half hour. Makes 2 doz. 


Mrs. A. Franz Wirte, Jr. (Lula Thomas Jenkins) 


“Lady Baltimore” Cookies 


1 cup shortening 114 teaspoons salt 
1% cups sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
3 eggs 1 teaspoon allspice 
Y teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon cloves 

2 teaspoons water 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
3 cups flour 1% cups raisins 


4 cup broken nut meats 


Cream shortening, sugar and eggs together. Dissolve soda in 
water and add. Mix and sift flour, salt and spices and add to the 
first mixture. Add raisins and nuts and mix thoroughly. Drop by 
teaspoons on greased pans. Bake in 350° oven 15 or 20 minutes. 
This receipt makes about 70 cookies. 


Mrs. Witson WALKER (Gladys Hay) 
249 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Kiss Cakes 


2 light cups of sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
4 egg whites Dash of almond extract 


1 level tablespoon cornstarch 1 cup broken pecans 


Beat egg whites very stiff. Add sugar a little at a time and 
beat well after each adding. Very important to add only small 
amount of sugar at a time! Sprinkle in cornstarch. Flavor with 
vanilla and a dash of almond extract. Then add the pecans. Drop 
on waxed paper by the tablespoon and bake in a very slow oven 
250° about 45 minutes. (The longer they cook, the better.) They 
are done when you can lift them off paper without breaking. Yield: 
2%4 dozen. 

Mrs. J. WaLKER CoLeMAN (Felicia Chisolm) 


Brown Sugar Nut Kiss Cakes 


1 egg white 1 cup pecans, chopped fine 
1 cup light brown sugar, well packed 


Beat egg white stiff but not dry. Mash out sugar smooth, add 
to egg white slowly, beating all the while with egg beater. Add 
the nuts and stir in well. Drop on well-buttered cookie sheet small 
teaspoonfuls about two inches apart. Bake 15 minutes in oven 350°. 
Makes 24-28 cookies. 

Mrs. Joun Laurens (May Rose) 


Date Kisses 


1 cup white sugar Y2 pound of pecans 
3 egg whites 1 package dates 
1 teaspoon vanilla 


Beat eggs until stiff; add sugar. Cook in double boiler until it 
will stand in points when dropped from spoon. Then remove from 
fire, add nuts, dates, and vanilla. Drop on well-greased cookie sheet 
aa 2 Pace apart. Bake 45 minutes in a slow oven (300°F.). 

ield: 86. 


Mrs. Waurer A. Davis (Genevieve Lockwood ) 
250 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Groundnut (Peanut) Cakes 


From “The Carolina Housewife,” a very early and rare cook 
book published in Charleston between 1850-1860. 


Blanch 1 pound of groundnuts; beat them very fine in a marble 
mortar, adding a little brandy while pounding to prevent oiling. 
Then add ten eggs, one pound of sugar, and one pound of butter. 
Beat the whole well together; make a puff paste, lay it on your 
tins, and fill them with the mixture; grate lump sugar over them, 
and bake in a slow oven. 

Mrs. H. P. Staats (Juliette Wiles) 


Ginger Bread Man or Ginger Cookies 


¥Y, cup shortening 1 teaspoon ginger 

Y% cup brown sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 
Y% cup molasses 3% cups flour 

Y% cup sour milk Y% teaspoon salt 

¥% teaspoon vinegar 1 teaspoon soda 


Cream shortening, add sugar gradually. Stir in molasses, add 
1% cups flour sifted with soda, salt and spices. Stir thoroughly 
and add remaining flour alternately with milk and vinegar (mixed). 
Chill dough; roll about % inch thick on floured board; use ginger- 
boy cutter. Place on baking sheet and bake at 375° for 10-15 
minutes. Yield: 26 boys. 
Mrs. I. Rrpon Witson, Jr. (Marguerite Bennett) 


Moldy Mice (Sand Tarts) 


1 stick butter 1 tablespoon sugar 
1 cup flour Y% cup chopped pecans 
114 teaspoons vanilla XX XX sugar 


Mix butter and sugar. Flour nuts and put together. Roll in 
small bars about the size of your thumb. Bake 425° about 15 min- 
utes. When done roll in sugar while very hot. Yield: 8 dozen. 

Mrs. W. H. BARNWELL (Mary Royall) 


25] 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Praline Cookies 


3 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon vanilla 
1 cup medium brown sugar 1 cup pecan halves 
1 egg, well beaten 2 tablespoons flour 


Melt butter and blend in sugar, add egg, nuts, flour, vanilla and 
mix well. Prepare a well-greased heavy cookie sheet, drop one half 
teaspoon of batter for each cookie, placing them five inches apart. 
Bake about ten minutes in a moderate oven, then loosen edges of 
each cookie with wide spatula and lift onto wire cake rack to cool 
and crisp. This delicious receipt, a truly Southern treat, makes 2% 
dozen cookies. 

Mrs. Howarp Reap (Adelaide Higgins) 


Walnut Wafers 


4 pound brown sugar 5 tablespoons flour 
1% pound walnuts (broken, ¥%4 teaspoon baking powder 
not chopped) 2 eggs 


Pinch of salt 


Mix brown sugar and eggs, beat, and add other ingredients. 
Drop on buttered pan with teaspoon. Bake in moderate oven 350° 
for 8-12 minutes. Yield: 3-4 dozen. 

Mrs. Henry ELLERBE (Margaret Lucas) 


Stickies 


Make a biscuit dough and roll out thin. Spread with butter or 
margarine and cover with brown sugar. On top of this sprinkle 
cinnamon. Start from side and roll (like jelly roll). Cut roll into 
slices about % inch thick. Place in well-buttered pan and on top of 
each slice put a little brown sugar and cinnamon. (This is for 
those who really like Stickies sticky!) Bake in moderate oven 450° 
until brown; remove from pan while hot . Dough, using 2 cups 
flour, yields 24. 

Mrs. I. Ripon Wirson, Jr. (Marguerite Bennett) 


252 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Rum Cookies 


1 pound of brown sugar 2 cups flour 

%4 pint brown corn syrup 14 teaspoon soda 

1 coconut (medium), 1 tablespoon good rum 
grated 


Mix in order listed. Drop on greased tins by teaspoons and 
bake in a moderate oven 350° to a golden brown. When slightly 
cooled, loosen from tin. (If allowed to become cold on tin, they 
become brittle and break). Yield: 100. 

Mrs. WALTER B. Metts (Jane Stauffer) 


Whiskey Cookies 


8 small boxes of vanilla 1 cup chopped pecans 
wafers 4 tablespoons dark corn 

2 tablespoons cocoa 

1% ounces whiskey Powdered sugar 


Roll wafers on a board with rolling pin until pulverized. Mix 
other ingredients and blend thoroughly with wafers. Form into 
small balls and roll in powdered sugar. Yield: 2 dozen. 


Mrs. Mary H. Barry (Mary Huguenin) 


Male Cookies 


1% sticks butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 cups brown sugar Pinch salt 

1 cup flour (measure 2 eggs, beaten together 
before sifting) 1 cup chopped nuts 


Cream butter and sugar; add eggs and flour, vanilla and nuts. 
Cook in biscuit pan in a slow oven (250°) about 40 minutes. When 
cold cut in small pieces and roll in powdered sugar. Yield: 214 doz. 


Mrs. A. L. Warptaw (Lelia Elliot) 


258 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Magnolia Gardens’ Pancake Cookies 


1 egg, separated % cup finely chopped 
4 cup brown sugar pecans 

% cup white sugar 1 cup sifted flour 

% teaspoon vanilla 1 tablespoon flour 

\%4 pound butter Pinch of salt 


Cream butter and sugar together. Add yolk of egg. Then add 
1 cup flour and a pinch of salt. Mix pecans with a tablespoon of 
flour and add to above mixture. Beat egg white until stiff. Add that 
and vanilla last of all. Take a teaspoon of the mixture, dip in ice 
water, and spread with a spatula on greased cookie pan. Heat oven 
to 850°. Turn off oven as soon as cookies are put in. Bake until 
lightly browned. Yield: 21 cookies. 

Mrs. Norwoop Hastie (Sara Simons) 


Almond Cookies 


Y% cup butter Frosting 

1 cup sugar 1 egg white 

1 egg Blanched almonds 

134 cups flour 1 tablespoon sugar 

2 teaspoons baking powder %4 teaspoon cinnamon 


Pinch of Salt 


Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and the egg, well beaten; 
then flour sifted with baking powder and a little salt. Chill, toss 
one half of mixture on floured board and roll 1% inch thickness, and 
cut with doughnut cutter. Then proceed with other half of mixture 
in same manner. Brush over with white of egg mixed with sugar 
and cinnamon. Split almonds and arrange three halves at equal 
distances on each. Place on cookie sheet and bake in slow oven 
for 8 minutes. Yield: 2 dozen. 

Miss NANNIE P. DESAUSSURE 


Queen Anne Cookies 


% pound butter 2 eggs 
% pound sugar ¥%2 teaspoon baking powder 
% pound flour Chopped nuts 


@ 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cream butter and sugar thoroughly. Add eggs one at a time, 
then flour and baking powder. Have cookie sheets greased and 
floured lightly. Spread the mixture very thin with spatula. Sprinkle 
with chopped nuts (pecans, peanuts or almonds) then with sugar, 
bake in a moderate oven about 400° until a delicate brown. Cut in 
squares and remove from baking sheet immediately. Makes about 
80 two-inch cookies. Store in air-tight tins. 

Mrs. WatteER B. Metts (Jane Stauffer) 


Chocolate Crispies 


2 squares of unsweetened 2 eggs, unbeaten 
chocolate Y% teaspoon vanilla 

Y% cup butter or shortening 1% cup nut meats, 

Y% cup sifted flour finely chopped 


1 cup sugar 


To melted chocolate, add butter, sugar, eggs, flour and vanilla, 
beating well. Spread mixture on baking sheet 12x16 inches or in 
three 8x6 pans. Sprinkle with nuts. Bake in hot oven 15 minutes. 
While warm, mark into 2-inch squares. Cool, then break into the 
squares. Makes 9 crispies. (Secret—spread as thin as possible.) 
These keep well for several days. 


Mrs. KintocH McDoweE Lt (Annie Bissell) 


Butter Cookies 


Y% cup butter (1 stick) 1 egg yolk 
Y% cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup flour Good pinch salt 


Soften butter to room temperature and mix other ingredients 
thoroughly into butter; use hands if necessary. Pinch off small pieces 
of mixture and roll into balls the size of large marble. Place on 
cookie sheet. Make a small depression in each. Fill this with some 
tart pelly or preserves. Bake in 350° oven. Watch carefully as they 
burn easily. (Cooking time: 20-30 minutes). Yield: 24. 

Mrs. WituiAM Haske (Jeannie Heyward) 


255 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Ice Box Cookies 


1 cup butter or substitute 3% cups sifted flour 
2 cups brown sugar 2 eggs 
1 cup chopped pecans 4 teaspoon salt 


1 teaspoon soda 


Cream butter and sugar, add eggs and mix well. Sift salt and 
soda into flour. Add nuts, add to first part and mix. Put dough on 
well-floured board and knead until smooth. Roll into round roll of 
desired size; roll in wax paper. Place in refrigerator over night. 
When ready to bake, slice very thin and bake in moderate oven 
(350°) until crisp. Makes about 5 dozen cookies. 

Mrs. E. H. B. Perry (A. Ruth Perry) 


Butterscotch Squares 


1% cup butter 34 cup flour 
1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 egg Y% teaspoon vanilla 


14 cup nuts 
Cook butter and sugar together until smooth and well blended. 
Cool until lukewarm. Add egg (unbeaten) and beat well. Add 
flour sifted with baking powder. Add vanilla and nuts and bake in 
oven at 350° until done. Cut in squares, cool before removing from 
pan. Yield: 24. 
Mrs. Henry ELLERBE (Margaret Lucas) 


Oatmeal Cookies 


1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 eggs 1 tablespoon butter 
2 teaspoons baking powder 214 cups raw oatmeal 


Cream butter and sugar; add yolks of eggs, oatmeal, baking 
powder and vanilla. Beat egg whites stiff and add last. Drop on 
buttered tin far apart, and bake in 325° oven until golden brown. 
Yield: 4 dozen. 


Mrs. Louis T. Parker (Josephine Walker) 
256 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Louise Boller 
1 heaping cup’ sugar 2 sticks butter or oleo 
4 cups cake flour (sifted) 1 beaten egg 


Sift sugar and flour in large bowl; mix butter in with fingers, 
then add the egg, and knead well. Roll into little balls, press an 
almond on top and bake on greased cookie sheets at 300° until 
light brown. Yield: 100. 


Mrs. ASHMEAD F. PRINGLE, JR. (Helen Johansen) 
Lemon Cookies 


Juice and gratings of 1 quart of flour (4 cups) 
one lemon \% teaspoon soda dissolved 

1 cup butter in % cup milk or water 

2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

2 eggs 2 tablespoons baking powder 


Cream butter and sugar; add eggs, soda, milk (or water) bak- 
ing powder and flour sifted together; also lemon juice, rind and 
extract. Roll out thin, adding more flour. Cut with cookie cutter. 
Bake on greased cookie sheet in slow oven for 20 minutes. Yield: 
about 100. 


Mrs. HERBERT RAVENEL Sass (Marion Hutson) 


Hillsborough Plantation Date Squares 


1 cup granulated sugar \% teaspoon baking powder 
¥% cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 eggs, well beaten 1 cup dates, cut up fine 

3% cup flour 1 cup nuts, chopped fine 


Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, then flour and baking 
powder, which have been sifted together. Add vanilla, then dates 
and nuts. Put into a well-greased baking pan, spreading thin 
enough to cover the bottom of the pan. Bake in 325° oven 15 or 
20 minutes. Cut in 14 inch squares while still warm. Yield: 36 
squares. 

Mrs. Ernest W. Krnc (Isabel Simmons) 


257 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Pfeffernuss 
1 pound butter ¥Y, can mixed cake spice 
1 pound shortening Grated rind of two oranges 
2 pounds blanched and 114 ounces of potash 
ground almonds 1 ounce cardamon seed 
2 pounds light brown 2 lumps of hartshorn 
sugar 6 pounds plain flour 
2 cans dark corn syrup 3 eggs 
3 teaspoons baking soda Warm water 


Warm shortening and butter, add sugar and eggs, then syrup 
which has been warmed. Then add baking soda mixed with a 
little warm water, then the ground almonds and orange peel. Add 
the flour, to which the potash, cardamon seed, spice, and harts- 
horn have been added. Mix well. This takes strong hands, but 
can be partly mixed with electric beater. Pack in a large bowl. 
Tke whole mixture does not have to be cooked at once. When 
finished they are delicious. Make a month before Christmas. Roll 
very thin, cut with small cookie cutters and cook in oven 300° 
about 15 or 20 minutes, depending upon your oven. Keep in tin 
cans. This makes a large amount of cookies. For a small family 
it is advisable to cut the receipt in half. Yield: several hundred. 

Mrs. Henry J. Mann (Florence Hossley) 


Christmas Cookies with Almonds 


34 pound butter 2 eggs 

Y% pound sugar Almonds 

34 pound flour (3 cups Cinnamon 
sifted ) 


Sift together flour and sugar, cut butter in and knead thorough- 
ly. Add one egg and knead again; let stand covered in ice box 
one hour. Roll out as thin as possible on floured board and cut 
with round cutter. Put a little beaten egg on middle of each 
cookie, add a few thin slices of almond and sprinkle with sugar 
and cinnamon mixed. Bake in medium oven until light brown. 

Mrs. AsHMEAD F. Princie, JR. (Helen Johansen) 


208 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Anise Christmas Cookies 


1 pound butter 2 eggs 

1 pound shortening 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup granulated sugar 3 pounds flour or more 
Y, teaspoon salt 1 lemon rind, grated 

1 cup brown sugar 1 nutmeg, grated 

2 cups black molasses 2 ounces cardamon 


1% ounces anise 


Cream butter, shortening and sugar; add eggs, molasses, then 
dry ingredients. Allow to stand in refrigerator for two days, to 
allow spice to go through. Roil out on floured board and cut with 
fancy Christmas cutters. Bake on cookie sheets in hot oven until 
golden brown (about 10 minutes.) Place in air-tight cans until 
ready to serve. Yield: several hundred. 


Mrs. Witt1am McG. Morrison (Caroline Sams) 


Butter Fingers (Christmas Cookies) 


1% sticks butter 2 teaspoons cold water 
\% cup white sugar or 9 tea- 2 cups flour (plain) that 
spoons Xxxx sugar has been sifted 
1 cup black walnuts or 2 teaspoons vanilla 

blanched almonds Dask of salt 


Cream sugar and butter well, add vanilla and grind the nuts 
and add to this. Add the cold water, then the flour and salt and 
knead thoroughly. Roll small amount at a time by hand in a roll 
the size of your finger, cut in pieces about an inch long. Cook in 
preheated oven 300°. Cook until light brown, about half an hour, 
depending on your oven. When cool, dust cookies with powdered 
sugar. Make only one batch at a time. When cool store in a tight 
can lined with wax paper. These keep a long time and the flavor 
improves with age. Yield: 24. 


Mrs. Henry J. Mann (Florence Hossley) 
259 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Date Dainties 


1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 
2 eggs 1 cup dates (chopped) 
1 cup flour 1 cup nuts (chopped) 


Separate eggs, beat yolks and add sugar, then cream together. 
Add flour, baking powder, nuts and dates. Mix well. Fold into 
stiffly beaten egg whites and bake in waxed paper lined pan in 350° 
oven for 385 minutes. Yield: 3 dozen. 

Mrs. Witson WaLKER (Gladys Hay) 


Defense Cookies 


Y% cup white sugar 1 cup plain flour 
%4 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
¥% cup shortening ¥% teaspoon soda 
1 egg \% teaspoon salt 


1 bag chocolate morsels 


Blend white and brown sugar. Cut in shortening and mix well. 
Sift flour, measure, then add soda and salt. Sift again. Stir flour 
well into shortening and sugar mixture. Beat egg well and add to 
sugar, shortening, flour mixture. Add vanilla, then morsels. Have 
cookie pans well greased and floured. Drop from teaspoon about 
an inch apart. Bake in moderate oven 350° about 12 minutes. 
Yield: 86. 

Mrs. Ropert Carucart (Katherine Morrow) 


Sugarless Drop Cookies 


Y% cup shortening 2% cups flour, sifted 
Y cup light corn syrup 2% teaspoons baking 
2 tablespoons honey powder 

1 beaten egg % teaspoon salt 


1 teaspoon vanilla 
Add honey, egg and syrup to creamed shortening. Mix well. 
Sift dry ingredients and add to creamed mixture (about a third at 
a time) mixing well after each addition. Add vanilla and drop 
from a teaspoon onto a greased baking sheet. Bake about 12 
minutes, or until brown, at 400°. Makes 5 dozen. 


280 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


ORANGE OR LEMON COOKIES: Omit vanilla and add grated 
rind of 1 orange or lemon to creamed shortening. SPICE FRUIT 
COOKIES: Sift with dry ingredients: 1 teaspoon cinnamon, % 
teaspoon allspice, 1% teaspoon cloves or nutmeg. Add 3% cup raisins 
to finished batter before baking. 

Mrs. R. M. ANperson (Dorothy Middleton) 


Harbor View Apiaries’ Honey Bars 


1 cup honey ~ 1 cup chopped nuts 
3 eggs, well beaten 1 pound chopped dates 
1 teaspoon baking powder 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1% cups flour 


Mix honey and well-beaten eggs together. Add baking powder 
and flour sifted together, then the chopped nuts, dates and flavoring. 
Bake in a long flat tin. Mixture should be % inch deep. Cut in 
strips % inch wide and 8 inches long. Before serving, roll in 
powdered sugar. These are fine for the holidays as they can be 
made ahead of time and will improve in flavor. Bake at 350° for 
15-20 minutes. Yield: 72. 

Mrs. Witmer THompson (Mary B. Mclver) 


Sugarless Chocolate Chip Cookies 


¥% cup butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 
% cup honey \% teaspoon salt 

1 small egg Y teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup sifted flour Y% cup semi-sweet 

Y% cup nut meats, chopped chocolate chips 


Cream butter and honey until light and fluffy. Add egg and 
beat well. Sift flour, baking powder and salt twice. Add flour 
mixture to butter mixture; then add vanilla and blend all well. Fold 
in chocolate chips and nuts. Chill and drop by teaspoonfuls on 
greased cooky sheet. Bake at 375° for 12 minutes. Yield: 3 dozen. 


Mrs. WitMER THOMPSON (Mary B. Mclver) 
261 


i CANDIES 


Unnuh got de sweet toof, enty? 


Now there is grape-fruit, crystallized, 
And candied orange-peel, 

And sugared lemon-rind is found 
‘Most anywhere you deal. 

But you need dry and sunny weather 
To manufacture good peach leather. 
Also, I've heard, (without negation), 
You have to use an incantation! 


Benne (Sesame) Brittle 


2 cups granulated sugar 2 cups parched benne seed 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 


Melt the sugar in a heavy frying pan or saucepan over a low 
heat, stirring constantly. When sugar is melted, remove from stove 
and add benne seed and vanilla quickly. Pour into a well-buttered 
pan to about 1% inch depth (a medium size biscuit pan is right.) 
Mark into squares while warm and break along lines when cold. 


Mrs. R. W. AcHurcH (Sue R. Thomas) 


Soft Benne Candy 


Good now and during “The Running Thread” era. 
1 pound light brown sugar 1 cup water 


or ¥% pound dark ¥3 cup freshly toasted 

brown and ¥% pound benne seed 

granulated 1 teaspoon butter 
Pinch of salt 


Boil sugar and water as if for fudge, testing by beating a little 
in a saucer. When it is the right consistency, add the butter and a 
pinch of salt. Beat until it is thick enough to mix in benne seed, 
and pour on waxed paper. Cut into large squares, as it breaks 
easily. 
Miss KATHERINE DrayToN MayraNT SIMONS 


262 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Peach or Apricot Leather 


“This conserve is a favorite in Charleston. It is usually made 
with dried peaches, but I prefer apricots.” 


1 pound dried peaches or 1 cup sugar 
apricots 

Wash the peaches or apricots and soak in water overnight. 
Cover with water (allow room, for they will swell) and boil as 
they are, until tender. Drain. Then run them through meat chop- 
per, add the sugar, mix well and return to the stove to melt the 
sugar. Spread the mixture fairly thin on tin cookie sheets. Next 
you will substitute, as best you can, the conveniences—I have a 
table with a galvanized iron top and screen frame to cover it. 
Place sheets on table in hot sunshine and move with the sun. Tin 
attracts it. When not too dry, sprinkle with granulated sugar. 
Cut in strips, roll into little rolls. Then roll in sugar and enjoy. 

Miss ELLEN PARKER 


Groundnut Cakes 
(from Carolina Housewife) 


“This is really a candy” 

“Formerly these groundnut cakes were sold by our Maumas on 
street corners or on the Battery on July 4th and other special oc- 
casions. The Maumas were picturesque, with their turbaned heads, 
waving a short fly brush made of dried grasses.” 


1 quart molasses 1 cup brown sugar 
4 cups shelled peanuts ¥% cup butter 
(roasted ) 


Combine all ingredients, except nuts, and boil for one half 
hour over a slow fire. Then add the roasted and shelled peanuts 
and continue cooking for fifteen minutes. Drop on lightly greased 
cookie sheets, or on a piece of marble. Make little cakes of the 
candy and let harden. For peanuts you may substitute benne seed. 

Miss ELLEN PARKER 


263 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Peanut Brittle 


From “De Bonnes Choses a Manger” 


3 cups sugar Small piece paraffin 
3 teaspoons soda 1 cup corn syrup (light) 
73 cup vinegar 73 cup water 


1 quart raw peanuts 


Mix sugar, water, syrup and vinegar. Add raw peanuts and 
paraffin. Boil until brown and peanuts pop or until it is very brittle 
in water. Take from fire, add soda. Stir well and pour on buttered 
slab. When cold, break into pieces. 

Mrs. DaNniEL RAVENEL (Ruth Howe) 


Khandova 


2 cups granulated sugar 1 heaping tablespoon 
2 tablespoons cornstarch butter 
% cup milk 12 English walnuts 
1 heaping tablespoon (chopped ) 
coconut 18 large chopped raisins 


Mix sugar and cornstarch and moisten with milk. Cook to soft 
ball stage. Add other ingredients and cook a minute. Take from 
fire and beat until cool, then knead smooth and form into balls. Roll 
in granulated sugar. 

Mrs. Joun M. MrrcHety (St. Clair Thomlinson) 


To Crystallize Grapefruit 

Clean grapefruit skins and cut in strips. Cover with salted 
water (1 pint of water to each tablespoon of salt). Let boil 20 
minutes. Drain off this water and cover with fresh water (do not 
measure) and boil 20 minutes. Do this again with fresh water. 
Drain off the third water and for every whole grapefruit use 1 cup 
granulated sugar. Let simmer until all the sugar is taken up and 
skins are clear. Roll in dry sugar and put in sun or heated oven 
(which has been turned out) to dry . 

Mrs. Henry ELLERBE (Margaret Lucas) 


264 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Scotch Toffee 


2 cups sugar 2 large cakes bitter 
2 cups nuts chocolate 
34 pound creamery butter 


Put sugar and butter in heavy saucepan over fire; when butter 
has melted, add 1 cup chopped nuts, folding mixture constantly 
with wooden spoon, on low heat for 20 to 25 minutes; this should 
become very thick. Pour on cookie tin that has been placed on 
top of four wide magazines. Use spatula to spread as thin as pos- 
sible. When cool it should be brittle. Turn candy completely 
over with spatula. Spread half of melted chocolate over this and 
cover with %4 cup finely chopped nuts and press in. Turn this 
again and spread remaining chocolate and cover with nuts. 

Mrs. M. Bishop ALEXANDER (Ferdinand Williams) 


To Glaze Nuts 


1 cup sugar Y% cup of water 
% cup light corn syrup 

If almonds or pistachio nuts are to be used, they should be 
blanched and the almonds should be delicately browned in the 
oven. Freshen other nuts in the same way if necessary. 

Cook the sugar, corn syrup and water, stirring until the sugar 
is dissolved. Continue cooking without stirring until 300° F. 
temperature is reached. As sugar crystals form on the sides of the 
pan, they must be wiped away with a wet cloth. This cooking 
should be done in a small saucepan, and the latter part of the cook- 
ing done over a low flame, so that the syrup will not discolor. The 
proper shade is a delicate straw color. When the syrup is done. 
remove from the flame and set into boiling water to prevent hard- 
ening. Stir the syrup as little as possible when dipping nuts to 
prevent crystallization. When the syrup becomes too thick for dip- 
ping, it can be reheated but care must be taken that it does not 
brown. 

Miss Jurra M. Rees 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Homemade Fruit Candy 


“One Christmas of my childhood in Summerville we were un- 
able to get Ladevese’s Fruit Bars. My Mother did not like choco- 
late, which was all the Christmas candy we had, and I made this 
in a hurry and by ear for her. I like it better than the bought bars 
because the sugar foundation is soft and not of the groundnut-cake 
hardness of the bars sold in shops.” 


1 pound dark brown sugar 1 cup granulated sugar 
2 cups of chopped and Water 

mixed nuts, raisins, 

citron, dried figs (and 

cherries, if you like) 

Cut fruit and nuts very small, as if for black fruit cake. Al- 
monds, pecans, walnuts may be used (not peanuts). Mix them 
well with the different kinds of fruit. Cover sugar with water and 
boil until ready to be beaten to fudge-like consistency. Do not 
beat too long, as this quantity of nuts and fruit will cool and 
harden it quickly. Add nuts and fruit and pour on waxed paper, 
making it as thick as mixture allows. Cut into bars of what ever 
size desired and wrap in waxed paper as soon as cool. 


Miss KATHERINE DRAYTON MAYRANT SIMONS 


The Piper of Hamlin blew tunes that were dandy 
And lured all the children as slick as you please,— 
But he was a piker compared to the candy- 
Confectioner, Charleston’s beloved Ladeveze! 
Three generations, with jump, skip and hop, 

Sped, clutching their pennies, to Ladeveze’ shop! 


266 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. Pierre Stoney’s Mint Drops 


“These mints are similar to those which were made and sold by 
Ladeveze. They are delicate enough for very small children.” 


1 pound fine granulated 6 drops oil of peppermint 
sugar Little over 14 teaspoon 
6 tablespoons cold water cream of tartar 


Put sugar in a porcelain saucepan with the cold water—first 
laying aside 3 spoonfuls of the sugar ina bowl to which add 
enough water to moisten (2 - 8 teaspoonfuls—this is not part of the 
water measure above) also the cream of tartar and the mint. Mix 
sugar and water in saucepan and set to boil. Let it boil 3 minutes, 
then stir in the mixture from the bowl and stir until it gets thick 
and white, like icing. Drop quickly by teaspoon on marble slab 
and leave until pretty hard. You can then easily slip them off 
with your fingers. 

Mrs. ArTHUR J. STONEY (Anne Montague) 


Good Mint Drops 


21% cups sugar 2 egg whites 
Y% cup water 10 drops mint extract 


4 teaspoon cream of tartar 
Boil sugar and water until it threads. Pour onto stiffiy beaten 
egg whites and beat with cream of tartar until stiff enough to drop 
from a spoon. Add mint. Use two teaspoons together and drop 
onto buttered marble slab or dish. 
Mrs. Lionet K. Lecce (Dorothy Porcher) 


Cream Candy 

1 quart of sugar 4 teaspoon of vanilla or 

1 teaspoon butter (level) few drops mint extract 

Y% pint of milk 

Cook all ingredients together until syrup will form a soft ball 
when dropped in cold water. Pour on buttered plates and pull 
with floured fingers. When the mixture begins to harden, pull in 
strips the size of little finger and cut with scissors into inch lengths. 

Miss Jutia M. REEs 


267 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Super Fudge 


1 cup creamy milk 2% cups sugar 
4 squares bitter chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Dash salt 1 cup pecans 


Small lump of butter 


Blend chocolate and milk together over low heat. When 
melted, beat with egg beater. Add sugar and salt and beat with 
egg beater over a low heat until mixture starts to boil. Remove 
beater and do not touch after the boiling begins. Cook until mix- 
ture is thick and makes a very firm ball when dropped in cold 
water. Remove from heat and place pan in cold water and allow 
to cool. Add butter. When candy is cool, add vanilla and beat 
with a wooden spoon until it is creamy. Add nuts and pour into 
a slightly greased pan. (This fudge takes more time and care but 
the extra beating adds to its velvety smoothness. ) 

Mrs. W. T. Hartman (Betty Blaydes) 


Vanilla Fudge 


A boon to those allergic to chocolate. 


2 cups granulated sugar 4 teaspoon salt 
4 tablespoons light corn 1 cup milk 
syrup 73 cup cream 


1 teaspoon vanilla 


Place sugar, cream, milk, syrup and salt in saucepan. Cook 
slowly, stirring constantly until mixture boils. Continue cooking, 
stirring occasionally, until soft-ball stage is reached. Cool and add 
vanilla. Beat until mixture thickens and loses its gloss. Pour into 
greased pan and when cool cut in squares. 


Mrs. Joun M. Mrticuety (St. Clair Thomlinson) 


268 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Divinity Fudge 


3 cups brown sugar 34 cups corn syrup (white) 
(dissolved in one cup 2 stiffly beaten egg whites 
of boiling water) 1 teaspoon vinegar 


1 cup chopped walnuts 


Let sugar, water and syrup cook slowly until it strings. Pour 
on egg whites, to which the vinegar has been added. Beat until 
it is stiff enough to stand when dropped on a dish, add nuts and 
pour out. s 

Mrs. Joun C. Simonps (Frances Rees) 


Walnut Fudge 


3 cups granulated sugar 1 cup of walnuts 
1 cup sweet milk (chopped ) 


Butter the size of an egg 


Put 2 cups of sugar, milk and butter over the fire and let this 
mixture come to a boil. Put the other cup of sugar into a saucepan 
and set over the fire and stir constantly. When melted and a rich 
brown color, slowly pour the first mixture, while boiling, into it, 
beating all the time. Cook to the soft-ball stage. Remove from 
fire and beat, then add nuts. Pour out and mark into squares. 

Miss Vircinta MITCHELL 


Peanut Butter Fudge Dreams 


1 cup white sugar 1 cup brown sugar 
2 tablespoons. butter 1 cup marshmallows 
\%4 pound peanut butter 1 cup milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla Few grains salt 


Cook sugar, milk and salt to the soft-ball stage. Add marsh- 
mallows, peanut butter and butter, just before removing from the 
stove. Cool, add vanilla and beat, then pour into a buttered pan. 

Mrs. Jonn M. Mrrcnett (St. Clair Thomlinson) 


269 


CHARLESTON RECEJPTS 


Chocolate Roll 


1 cup nuts 1 cup seedless raisins 
¥% pound dipping chocolate 2 tablespoons milk 
16 marshmallows Few drops peppermint 


Melt marshmallows in milk over kot water. Stir until creamy, 
then stir in the melted chocolate, seedless raisins, nuts, and pepper- 
mint. Form into roll, cool and slice. 


Mrs. M. L. McCrar (Ena Mae Black) 


Sticky Chocolate Caramels 


Y% pound bitter chocolate Y pound of butter 
2 pounds brown sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla 
Enough milk or water to moisten 


Put all ingredients, except vanilla, in pot. Boil, stirring con- 
stantly. Test by dropping a little from spoon on marble slab. 
When it is chewy, remove from fire; add vanilla and pour on well 
buttered marble slab. Cut in squares. 


Mrs. E. K. Prirrcuarp (Julia Myers) 


Martha Washington Candy 


¥% pound confectioners sugar Y% teaspoon hot water 
¥% pound butter ¥Y4 teaspoon vanilla 


3-4 squares bitter chocolate 


Combine ingredients and knead until mixture can be rolled out. 
Form into balls and dip in melted bitter chocolate. 


Miss Vircinta MrrcHeEL. 


270 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Nut Patties 
1 cup sugar ° \% teaspoon of salt 
% cup light corn syrup Y% cup brown sugar 
2 tablespoons of butter ¥% cup of water 


1% cups of nut meats 


Cook sugar, corn syrup, and water together, stirring until sugar 
is dissolved. Continue cooking, stirring enough to prevent scorch- 
ing, until the temperature of 300° F. is reached. Remove from 
fire, add salt, butter, and nut meats, stir only enough to mix well. 
(If much stirring is done it will sugar the brittle). It is desirable 
to have the nut meats warm before adding so that the candy will 
not harden before it can be put in the pans. Set in a pan of hot 
water and, with a large spoon dip out the candy and drop into 
lightly buttered patty tins, making the candy about one-fourth inch 
thick. When thoroughly cold, invert the tins, and tap with knife 
handle to loosen the patties. It is customary to use unbroken nuts. 
A mixture of different nuts is good. 


Mrs. Joun C. Srmonps (Frances Rees) 


- Soft Pop-Corn Balls 


% cup sugar 114 quarts of popped corn 
2 tablespoons light corn Y cup brown sugar 

syrup % cup of water 
Y% tablespoon butter % teaspoon salt 


Cook the sugars, syrup, and water, stirring until the sugar is 
dissolved. Continue cooking, without stirring, until a temperature 
of 240° F. is reached. Add the butter and stir only enough to mix 
it through the candy. Have the pop-corn in a large bowl so that 
when the syrup is added, there will be enough room for thorough 
mixing. Pour the cooked syrup slowly on the salted pop-corn. 
Mix well and form into balls with the hands, using as little pres- 
sure as possible. These balls are rather soft; if firmer balls are 
desired, cook syrup to 242° F. 

Mrs. Joun C. Stmonps (Frances Rees) 


271 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Pecan Pralines 


4 cups granulated sugar 5 cups chopped pecans 
1 cup light cream 1 teaspoon salt 


Boil 3 cups of sugar with cream until it forms a soft ball. 
Meanwhile, caramelize the remaining cup of sugar in an iron skillet. 
Combine boiled sugar and cream with the caramelized sugar, being 
sure the pot is very large as the caramelized sugar foams a great 
deal when added to the cream and sugar. Add salt and nuts and 
beat vigorously until creamy. Drop by spoonfuls on buttered 
paper. 

Mrs. Car_ton G. Davies (Harriet Goodacre ) 


Fondant 
1 egg white 2 squares unsweetened 
2 tablespoons cold water chocolate (melted ) 
3%4 cups sifted confectioners 1 teaspoon vanilla 
sugar (about ) Walnut meats 


Beat egg white slightly and add water, chocolate, vanilla and 
enough sugar to make fondant shape. Roll into small balls, flatten 
and put half of a walnut on each. 

Mrs. Joun M. Mircue.t (St. Clair Thomlinson) 


Coconut Bars 


2 cups granulated sugar \% pound shredded 
Y% teaspoon cream of tartar coconut 
Y cup water 


Mix sugar, cream of tartar and water; put this mixture over 
the fire and stir until it comes to a boil, then stop stirring and cook 
until it forms a ball when dropped into water. Take from the fire 
and beat until it whitens, then add the shredded coconut and con- 
tinue beating until it becomes thick. Pour into buttered pan and 
when cool cut into bars. 

Mrs. Harotp G. Dotrerer (Harriet Lipscomb) 


272 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. Rees’ Nougat 


1 cup sugar Y% cup water 

Y% cup strained honey 3 tablespoons light corn 
2 egg whites syrup 

¥% cup pistachio nuts 2% cups almonds 


1 teaspoon vanilla 


Blanch the almonds and pistachio nuts and shred coarsely. 
Brown almonds in a slow oven. Cook the sugar, water and % 
of the corn syrup together, stirring until the sugar is dissolved. 
Continue cooking to the temperature 290° F. Remove from the 
fire. During the last few minutes of cooking the syrup, beat the 
egg whites until stiff. Add the hot syrup gradually to the egg 
whites, beating all the while. While adding the first syrup to the 
egg whites, begin cooking the honey and remainder of the corn 
syrup together. Continue cooking until 290° F. is reached. Re- 
move from the fire and add at once to the egg white mixture, 
pouring it in gradually and beating continuously. Add nuts and 
cook over hot water until the mixture dries, stirring while cooking. 
Test the candy by taking a small amount out in a spoon. When it 
holds its shape when cold, and is not sticky to the touch, it is 
done. Add vanilla, pour into pans which have been lined with 
nougat wafers (gold-fish food), cover with wafers. Place a smooth 
pan or board on this, with a heavy weight upon it. Let stand for 
twelve hours or longer. Cut in pieces and wrap in waxed paper. 

Mrs. Joun C. Srmonps (Frances Rees) 


Coconut Drops 


134 pounds sugar 1 grated coconut 
1% gills water (34 cup) Few drops rose water 


Put the sugar and water on the fire to boil and when the syrup 
becomes sugary, add the coconut and cook until it bubbles and 
the grease boils out. Take off fire and flavor with the rose water 
and drop on greased pan. 

Mrs. Haroitp G. Dotrerer (Harriet Lipscomb) 


273 


PICKLES & REL St 


) 


People ain’ fuh know groun’ artichoke good fuh mek pickle; 
‘stead dey gib um tuh de pig! 


Almost too numerous to choose 

Are condiments that people use 

To titillate or prickle; 

But Charleston views the rest with calm 
And firmly sticks to heart-of-palm, 

The tart palmetto pickle. 


Palmetto (Heart of Palm) Pickle 


4 quarts heart of palm 1% pounds sugar 

14 gallon vinegar 1 lemon (juice) 

1 ounce celery seed 2 tablespoons turmeric 

1 ounce mustard seed 1% cups flour 

1% ounces powdered Red pepper (to taste) 
mustard 


Trim the heart of the palmetto palm until you reach the 
tender white part. (The upper portion is white and tender and 
usually used for pickle; however the lower portion, though bitter 
to taste, may be used also.) Cut the tender white portion into 
small pieces. Soak in salted water (two tablespoons salt to one 
quart of water) for two days. Drain. Wash well. Drain again. 
Mix all other ingredients and boil slowly for ten minutes. Add 
heart of palm and heat through. Put in sterilized jars and seal 
while hot. Yield: 8 pints. 


Mrs. E. M. Srasroox (Fannie Lee Anderson) 


274 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Plain Whole Artichoke Pickles 


1 peck Jerusalem artichokes 1 cup salt 
1 gallon vinegar String of hot peppers or 
1 pound brown sugar bell peppers 

1 ounce whole black peppers 


Wash and clean artichokes. Dry with a cloth. Fill jars, add- 
ing a hot pepper or a ring of bell pepper. Boil other ingredients 
for 5 minutes, then cover the artichokes with this mixture and seal 
while hot. Yield: 8 quarts. 

Mrs. Mary H. Bamtey (Mary Huguenin) 


Chopped Artichoke Pickle 


8 quarts Jerusalem For sauce: 
artichokes 1 cup flour 
1 quart onions 6 tablespoons dry mustard 
1 large cauliflower 1 tablespoon turmeric 
6 green peppers 2 quarts vinegar 
1 gallon water 4 cups sugar 
1 pint salt 


Slice or chop artichokes and onions. Cut peppers fine and 
break cauliflower into flowerets. Mix all together and cover with 
salt and water. Let stand twenty-four hours. Pour into colander 
and drain well. Mix all dry ingredients for sauce and add enough 
vinegar to make a paste. Heat rest of vinegar and pour over mus- 
tard mixture. Return to stove and boil until it thickens, stirring 
constantly. Add vegetables, bring to boil and seal in jars while 
hot. Yield: 8-10 pints. 


Mrs. Epwarp M. Royaty (Harriet Maybank) 
275 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Whole Artichoke Pickles 


1 peck Jerusalem (root) 2 teaspoons turmeric 
artichokes 3 pounds sugar 

1 cup olive or cooking oil 1 gallon cider vinegar 

1 package mustard seed 1 or 2 red pepper pods 

1 package celery seed Y% pound powdered mustard 


2 tablespoons whole black peppercorns 


Scrub artichokes with a wire brush, cutting off any soft spots. 
Soak in strong brine for three days. Rub dry with a rough cloth. 
Pack in sterile jars. Sauce: Mix oil and mustard thoroughly. Add 
vinegar by degrees until half is used. Mix in sugar and when dis- 
solved add rest of ingredients. Bring to a boil, and pour im- 
nediately on artichokes and seal. Let stand 6 weeks before using. 


Mrs. McIver Wixpur (Susan Prioleau Wilbur) 


Great Grandmother’s Whole 
Artichoke Pickle 


“This receipt has long been a family favorite.” 


1 peck Jerusalem 1 small lump alum 
artichokes 2 tablespoons celery seed 

1 gallon vinegar 2 tablespoons allspice 

1 cup brown sugar 2 tablespoons cloves 

1 cup powdered mustard 4 tablespoons mustard seed 


Wash and scrape artichokes and let them stand over night in 
water to which salt has been added (1 tablespoon to each quart). 
Drain. Soak for a day in water to which the alum has been added. 
Rinse well. Soak mustard seed in small amount of vinegar. Boil 
rest of vinegar and spices a few minutes. Let cool; add mustard 
and mustard seed. Put artichokes in a crock and add liquid mix- 
ture. Let stand at least a week before using. Dip artichokes out 
as desired. When supply is exhausted, more artichokes may be 
added to same liquid. 


Mrs. Louis T. Parker (Josephine Walker) 
276 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. J. H. Holmes’ Cabbage Pickle 


4 pounds cabbage For sauce: 

2 stalks celery 2 quarts vinegar 

1 quart onions 1 pound granulated sugar 
1 cup salt 6 tablespoons dry mustard 


1 tablespoon cornstarch 
1 tablespoon celery seed 
1 tablespoon turmeric 


Chop vegetables and sprinkle with salt. Combine dry in- 
gredients and add enough vinegar to make a paste. Heat rest of 
vinegar to boiling point. Add paste; cook until sauce thickens. 
Add vegetables and cook over slow fire, stirring constantly, for ten 
minutes. Put in jars and seal while hot. Yield: approximately 6 

ints. 
: Mrs. A. Baron Hotes, III (Dewar Gordon) 


Cabbage Pickle 


6 pounds hard cabbage 1 cup water 
4 quarts green peppers 5 cups sugar 
(about 1 dozen) 2 ounces pickling spice 
3 quarts white onions (put in cloth bag) 
1 cup salt 1% tablespoons celery seed 
1% quarts cider vinegar 1] teaspoon turmeric 


Cut vegetables fine, sprinkle with the salt and let stand over 
night. In the morning, drain off all water. Add 1 cup water to 
vinegar. Let all ingredients come to a boil, pour over vegetables 
and cook for 25 minutes (about) after it starts boiling. Pour into 
sterilized jars and seal. Yield: 8-10 pints. 

Mrs. THomas P. Stoney (Beverly DuBose) 


277 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. Robinson’s Bread and Butter Pickles 


1 gallon cucumbers (small) Pickling syrup: 


2 green peppers 3 cups sugar 
8 small white onions 14 teaspoons turmeric 
¥% cup salt 14 teaspoon ground cloves 


1 teaspoon celery seed 
2 tablespoons mustard seed 
5 cups vinegar 


Select crisp, fresh cucumbers. Wash, but do not pare. Slice 
cucumbers and onions paper thin and cut peppers into fine shreds. 
Mix salt with the vegetables and bury pieces of cracked ice in the 
mixture. Cover with weighted lid and let stand for three hours. 
Drain thoroughly. Mix dry ingredients with vinegar and pour over 
vegetables. Place over low heat and paddle occasionally, using a 
wooden spoon. Heat the mixture to scalding, but do not boil. Pour 
into hot jars and seal. Yield: 7 pints. 

Mrs. J. M. Rivers (Martha Robinson) 


Pickled Onions 


UNCOOKED 
5 medium onions 12 whole black peppers 
1 cup salt 1 small clove garlic 
2 quarts water (optional ) 


White vinegar (about 1 cup) 


Peel and slice onions paper thin. Dissolve salt in water and 
soak onions one hour. Remove to colander and wash well. Add 
black peppers. Put in quart jar and cover with vinegar. Add 
garlic, if desired. Excellent for green salads and easy on the 
digestion. 

Mrs. ArrHur L. Rivers (Louisa Taber) 


278 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cranberry Sauce 


1 pound cranberries 2 cups sugar 


Wash and remove over-ripe berries. Drain thoroughly, and 
put in saucepan. Water adhering to berries is all that is needed. 
Add sugar and cook over low flame. Cook 8 minutes after boiling 
begins. Cover and remove from fire. Do not remove cover for at 
least 20 minutes. Yield: 2 pints. 

Mrs. Davip MayBank (Marion Taber) 


Cranberry Sauce 
UNCOOKED 


2 cups cranberries 1 large orange 
1 cup sugar 


Quarter orange; remove seed and core. Put all fruit through 
meat grinder. Add sugar. Let stand in refrigerator for a day or 
two. 

Mrs. J. WALKER CoLEMAN (Felicia Chisolm) 


Spiced Grapes 


8 pounds grapes 4 sticks cinnamon 
4 pounds sugar 1 ounce whole cloves 
3 cups vinegar 2 blades mace 


Remove and set aside skins of grapes. Cook pulp in vinegar 
with spices tied in cheese cloth until grapes are soft. Mash 
through fine sieve, keeping out seeds. Add skins. Bring to a boil 
and add sugar, bag of spices. Cook until thick. Put into glasses 
and seal. Delicious with venison. 

Mrs. LAwrENCE Lucas (Nell Hall) 


279 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Spiced Red Tomatoes 


4 pounds ripe tomatoes 2 pounds sugar 
1 quart vinegar 1 ounce allspice 
1 ounce whole cloves 


Weigh tomatoes after peeling and then crush. Boil all ingre- 
dients until thick enough to serve with meat. Seal in jars while hot. 
Mrs. Henry Cray Ropertson, Jr. (Elizabeth Lebby) 


Red Pepper Jam 


1 dozen red peppers 1% pounds sugar 
1 pint vinegar 1 tablespoon salt 


Chop peppers fine, and sprinkle with salt. Let stand three or 
four hours. Rinse well, then cover with sugar and vinegar. Boil 
slowly until thick, stirring often to prevent sticking. Makes four or 
five glasses. Delicious served with cream cheese and crackers. 


Mrs. JoHNnson Hacoop (Jean Small) 


Pepper Relish 


12 red peppers 1 pint vinegar 
12 green peppers 2 cups sugar 
12 medium size onions 3 tablespoons salt 


Run peppers and onions through meat chopper. Cover witk 
boiling water and let stand for five minutes. Drain and add vinegar, 
sugar, and salt. Boil for five minutes. Put in jars and seal. 


Mrs. W. T. Hartman (Betty Blaydes) 
280 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Tomato Catsup 


4 quarts tomatoes 3 tablespoons mustard 
1 quart vinegar 1 tablespoon allspice 
4 tablespoons black pepper 3 or 4 pods of red 

4 tablespoons salt peppers 


Wash and cut tomatoes. Add other ingredients. Boil 6 or 8 
hours, or until quite thick, stirring regularly to avoid sticking, then 
rub through a coarse sieve. Bottle and cork while warm. 


~ Mrs. Wittiam GapsdEN (Ruth Walker) 


Chili Sauce 


2 pecks tomatoes 2 teaspoons mustard 

18 green peppers 2 teaspoons celery seed 
3 pints vinegar 1 teaspoon allspice 

8 tablespoons salt 18 cloves 

9 tablespoons sugar 1 tablespoon mace 


Pinch of cayenne pepper 


Scald tomatoes and add all other ingredients. Boil steadily 
for 2 hours. Put into clean hot jars and seal at once. 


Miss MARGARET WALKER 


Mustard 


1% ounces powdered Y% teaspoon Worcestershire 
mustard 1 teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 tablespoon olive oil 

2 tablespoons vinegar Few drops hot sauce 


Blend mustard, sugar and salt. Add vinegar and remaining 
ingredients. Mix well, making a smooth paste. 


Mrs. Mary H. Bartey (Mary Huguenin) 
281 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Green Tomato Pickle 


1 peck green tomatoes 2 pounds brown sugar 

2 quarts onions 4 pound white mustard 

2 quarts vinegar seed 

Y% tablespoon cayenne 14 ounce ground mace. 
pepper 1 tablespoon celery seed 

1 tablespoon dry mustard 1 tablespoon ground cloves 

1 teaspoon turmeric % cup olive oil 


Slice tomatoes and onions very thin. Place on large platters — 
and sprinkle with salt. Let stand overnight. Drain through col- 
lander. Add one quart vinegar to vegetables and boil slowly until 
tender and clear. Drain. Mix sugar, mustard seed, celery seed 
and cloves with vinegar and boil five minutes. Mix drained vege- 
tables with cayenne pepper, mustard and turmeric and add to 
vinegar mixture. Mix well, add olive oil, and seal in jars. Yield: 
8 quarts. 

Mrs. EpMunp Ruetr Heywarp (Sarah Boykin) 


Sweet Green Tomato Pickle 


Y% peck green tomatoes 3% quarts white vinegar 
(20) 8 pounds brown sugar 

2 stalks celery 3 tablespoons whole cloves 

10 green peppers 16 tablespoons mustard 

24 large white onions 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

2 large cabbages 4 teaspoon red pepper 

1 cup salt 8 tablespoons ginger 


Pare tomatoes and chop fine; cut stem from green peppers, 
remove seeds and chop fine, shred the cabbage, chop onions and 
celery fine. 

Mix ingredients. Add salt and let stand overnight. Drain. 
Make a syrup of vinegar, brown sugar and spices. Scald the 
syrup, add the chopped mixture and simmer, after it has been 
brought to boiling, for forty minutes. Yield: 8 pints. 

Mrs. Louis Y. Dawson, Jr. (Virginia Walker) 


282 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Chow-Chow 


“Long have gourmets desired this receipt and now we think 
it’s “High Time to Tell It’”. 


4 quarts green tomatoes For dressing: 
2 quarts small white onions 2 quarts vinegar 
12 green peppers (sweet) 5 tablespoons ground 
Several small hot red peppers mustard 
(according to taste) 5 tablespoons turmeric 
6 red peppers (sweet) 6 tablespoons flour 
1 head cauliflower 5 cups granulated sugar 
water 1 tablespoon celery seed 
2 cups salt 1 tablespoon mustard seed 


1 bottle of little sour gherkins —_1 pint water 


Cut up vegetables; cover with water and salt and let stand 
over night. Next morning boil three minutes and drain for quite 
a while. Combine all ingredients for dressing. Boil until creamy, 
pour over pickles and add gherkins. Yield: 8 quarts. 

Miss ALvEs LONG 


Green Tomato Chow-Chow 


1 head hard cabbage 4 tablespoons flour 

1 quart onions 3 tablespoons ground 

1 quart bell peppers mustard 

1 gallon green tomatoes 2 tablespoons white mustard 
2 quarts vinegar seed 

1 cup salt 1 tablespoon celery seed 

2 tablespoons turmeric 3 cups sugar 


Chop vegetables fine. Sprinkle with salt and let stand over 
night. Drain. Mix turmeric, flour and mustard with enough water 
to make smooth paste. Let vinegar come to boil and add mixture. 
Add all other ingredients including vegetables. Boil 10 minutes. 
Seal in jars while hot. Yield: 12 pints. 

Mrs. Wiit1AM BARNWELL (Mary Royall) 


283 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Iced Green Tomato Pickles 


(From Mt. Pleasant’s Famous Recipes) 


7 pounds green tomatoes 1 teaspoon cloves 

2 gallons water 1 teaspoon ginger 

3 cups powdered lime 1 teaspoon allspice 

5 pounds sugar 1 teaspoon celery seed 
3 pints vinegar 1 teaspoon mace 


1 teaspoon cinnamon 


Soak sliced tomatoes in lime water 24 hours. Drain. Soak in 
fresh water for 4 hours, changing water every half hour. Drain 
well. Make a syrup of sugar and vinegar and add spices. Bring 
syrup to a boil and pour over tomatoes. Let stand overnight. 
Next morning boil for an hour or until tomatoes are clear. Seal 
in jars while hot. Yield: 7 pints. (Use plain yard lime.) 

Mrs. Joun Gray (Esther Gregorie) 


Crisp Watermelon Rind Pickle 


1 watermelon rind 1 ounce stick cinnamon 
1 quart vinegar 1 ounce whole cloves 
5 pounds sugar 1 vial lime 


Prepare rind by removing all red and green. Cut in squares. 
Soak over night in water to which lime has been added. Drain, 
but do not wash. Cover with water and cook two hours. Drain 
again and cook slowly for 1 hour in syrup made of remaining 
ingredients. Syrup should cover rind. Seal in jars while hot. 
(Lime available at drug stores). 

Mrs. Francis C. Forn, Jr. (Elizabeth Coker ) 


284 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Sweet Pickled Watermelon 


1 watermelon ririd 4 tablespoons whole cloves 
4 cups vinegar 4 tablespoons cinnamon 
§ pounds sugar sticks 


Cut skin from watermelon; cut rind into small pieces about 2 
inches square. After cutting melon, soak in 1 cup salt and enough 
water to cover for 12 to 15 hours, then pour off and boil in fresh 
water. Boil sugar and vinegar 10 minutes. Add spices tied in bag. 
Simmer until syrupy, about two hours. Add melon and simmer 1 
hour. Fill jars and seal. Yield: 12 pints. 

Mrs. A. Kintocz McDoweE tt (Annie Bissell ) 


Pickled Peaches 


2 pounds sugar 2 sticks cinnamon 
2 cups vinegar 2 tablespoons whole cloves 
4 quarts peaches 


Boil sugar, vinegar, and spices for 20 minutes. Drop fruit in 
a few at a time, and cook until tender. Pack in hot sterilized jars, 
adding syrup to 4 inch of the top; seal. Yield: 4 quarts. 
Mrs. R. C. Stonry (Della Holmes) 


Sweet Pickled Figs 


5 quarts ripe figs 1 pint apple vinegar 
Alum (size of pigeon egg) 1 pound sugar 
Water (to cover) 1 tablespoon cloves 


Leave stems on figs. Let stand overnight in 2 quarts water 
and 2 tablespoons salt. Dry carefully, bring to boil in alum water 
Wash thoroughly in several waters. Lift out and dry on towel 
Add spices and sugar to vinegar and bring to a good boil. After 
five minutes add figs and boil three minutes. Remove from fire 
and pack in jars. 

Mrs. Tuomas B. BENNETT (Margaret R. Fraser) 


285 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. Mayberry’s Chutney 


12 green tart apples 1 pound brown sugar 

12 large green tomatoes, or 2 tablespoons salt 

24 small green tomatoes ¥ teaspoon red pepper 

4 onions (sliced thin) 1% tablespoons curry 

1 pound seeded raisins powder 

1 quart vinegar 2 tablespoons pickling spice 


Core and chop apples and tomatoes. Tie pickling spice in 
bag. Add other ingredients. Boil about twenty minutes, or until 
apples look transparent. Take out fruit and let syrup boil until it 
thickens. Pack in jars and seal while hot. Yield: approximately 
12 pints. 

Mrs. Francis McIntme (Emmie Mayberry) 


Chutney 


4 pounds mangoes or 1 pound preserved ginger, 
peaches in syrup 

2 tablespoons white mustard 2 pounds sugar 
seed 2 quarts vinegar 

1 tablespoon ground dried 1% cups raisins 
chile pepper 1 clove garlic 


Peel and cut fruit, and add one quart vinegar. Boil for 20 
minutes. Combine sugar and second quart of vinegar and boil until 
it is a thick syrup. Pour off most of the liquid from the fruit and 
add to this syrup. Boil this combination until it is thick. Com- 
bine this thick syrup with the rest of the ingredients and fruit 
except the ginger, and cook thirty minutes. Add chopped ginger 
and its syrup and cook ten minutes longer. Bottle. The flavor is 
improved if it is placed in the sun for several days. This India 
Chutney is almost identical with a very famous brand of chutney. 
Yield: 4-5 pints. 

Mrs. Aprian R. Marron ( Polly Ficken) 


288 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Pompion (Pumpkin) Chips 


1 firm, medium-size, 1 dozen lemons 
dry pumpkin 1 cup sugar to each 
2 cups chips 


Peel pumpkin and cut into thin pieces, one-half inch square. 
Add sugar and the lemon juice (save the skins). Let stand over- 
night. Boil until the chips look clear and transparent. Take chips 
out and boil syrup until it thickens a little. Cut up lemon skins 
and boil separately until soft. Add the chips and lemon skins to 
the thickened syrup and bring to a boil. Place in jars and seal. 
Yield: 6-8 pints. 

Mrs. Pure G. Porcuer, Sr. (Mary Cordes) 


Three Fruit Marmalade 


1 grapefruit 1 lemon 
1 orange Sugar 
Cold water 


Grate lightly the rind of each whole fruit. Cut rind in very 
thin narrow pieces and chop pulp, except center. Keep this cen- 
ter and the seeds of all fruit separate and tie in a cloth bag. Meas- 
ure the mixture of pulp and rind and add three times the amount 
of cold water. Let stand overnight and next day boil rapidly for 
thirty minutes. Boil with bag of seed, remove seed after boiling, 
weigh and add its equal weight of granulated sugar. Let stand 
several hours, then boil rapidly, stirring constantly. Test frequent- 
ly until it jells. Put in glasses or jars and seal while hot. 


Miss Louisa B. PopPpENHEIM 


287 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Fig Preserves 


2 quarts firm figs 2 lemons, sliced 
4 pounds sugar 1 ounce cinnamon 
1% cups water 24 cloves 


Wash fruit carefully in colander. Let sugar and water come 
to a boil. Add lemons and figs, and spices tied in a bag. Boil 
slowly until figs are tender and clear, about one hour. Lift fruit 
carefully into sterilized jars and cover with juice. Seal while hot. 
Yield: 3 pts. 

Mrs. Jonn WE cH (Julie Pringle) 


Pear Chips 


8 pounds pears, peeled 1 box root ginger (whole) 
and sliced 2 lemons 
7 pounds sugar 3 oranges 


1 pint water 
Grind oranges and lemons, using all except seeds. Dissolve 
sugar in water; add all ingredients and cook until pears are clear 
and syrup thickens. Seal in jars while hot. Delicious on ice cream. 
Yield: 10 pts. 
Mrs. LawrENcE Stoney (Jane Saunders) 


Ginger Pears 


9 pounds pears 3 ounces crystallized 
6 pounds sugar ginger 
4 lemons 
Pare fruit; cut in thin slices after removing core. Mix pears 
and sugar. Place over low heat in large kettle. Stir until sugar is 
melted and syrup formed. Simmer until fruit is clear, stirring oc- 
casionally. Add grated rind of two lemons and juice of all four. 
Add ginger cut in small pieces and simmer until thick. Put in ster- 
ilized jelly glasses and cover with paraffin, or seal in sterilized pint 
jars, while hot. Approximate yield: 18 jelly glasses. 
Mrs. Jonn Laurens (Mav Rose) 


288 


SelORT CUTS 


W’en you ain’ got time fuh tarry, bus’ open a can! 


The soup is served, the candles lit, 

The family ‘prepares to sit, 

When suddenly three guests arrive; 

(Which makes you eight. You've chops for fivel) 
Don't blench with fear or flush with rage; 

Turn swiftly to the proper page; 

Select a quick receipt to serve 

And dish it up with joy and verve! 


SHORT CUT RECEIPTS 
c= cup T= tablespoon t= teaspoon Ib. = pound 


CLARET PUNCH—Combine equal amounts of domestic claret 
and dry ginger ale. Serve very cold. 
Mrs. JoHN BENNETT (Susan Smythe) 


TEEN AGE PUNCH—Combine equal amounts of grape juice 
and ginger ale. Pour over a large lump of ice in punch bowl and 
serve. 

Mrs. Davi MayBank (Marion Taber) 


CHEESE STRAWS-—To a package of pie crust mix add 1 c. 
grated cheese, %4 to 1 t. red pepper, blend thoroughly and add 
amount of water called for on pie crust package. Roll dough thin 
and cut in strips. Bake for eight minutes in a hot oven (450°). 

Mrs. Frank B. Grpretu, Jr. (Elizabeth Cauthen) 


CINNAMON WHEELS—Make pastry from pie crust mix. 
Roll dough thin, sprinkle with two T. cinnamon and spread gen- 
erously with soft butter and 14 T. of sugar. Roll up and cut in 
1” sections. Dot top of each with butter. Bake 8-10 min. in a hot 
oven (450°). 

Mrs. Frank B. Grtpretu, JR. (Elizabeth Cauthen) 


HORS-D’OEUVRE BISCUIT—Mix pastry from one package 
of pie crust mix. Roll in small balls and press each with bottom 
of a jigger glass to make a depression. Bake in hot oven. Fill with 
caviar, anchovy paste or if a sweet is desired, marmalade or jelly. 

Mrs. ArTHuR J. Stoney (Anne Montague) 


289 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


CHEESE BISCUIT—Blend one package of pie crust mix (dry) 
with one jar of sharp cocktail cheese and % t. of red pepper. Roll 
thin and cut with small biscuit cutter. Press % nut on each. 
Bake in hot over until golden brown. Yield: 36. 

Mrs. Roperr W. AcuurcH (Sue Thomas) 


BENNE WAFERS—Prepare pie crust mix as directed on pack- 
age, add 1 c. parched benne seed. Roll thin and cut in rounds. 
Bake in hot oven and salt while hot. Yield: several dozen. 

Mrs. Bouun B. Kintocu (Betty Austin) 


CRAB SOUP—Combine 2 cans of cream of celery soup, equal 
amount of milk, 1 lb. of crab meat, salt, pepper and a pinch of 
mace. Heat and add sherry to taste. Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. WALKER CoLEMAN (Felicia Chisilm) 


BORSCH-—Save all juice from 2 bunches of boiled beets; add 
an equal amount of canned consommé. Simmer for half hour; add 
1 t. vinegar and a few pieces of beets cut small. Add sherry to 
taste and serve topped with a daub of sour cream. Serves 4. 

Mrs. CHarLes W. Warinc (Margaret Simonds) 


ONION SOUP-—Sauté 6 large onions, sliced, in butter; cover 
with water and simmer gently for about % hour. Add 2 cans of 
bouillon or consommé and serve with a piece of toast in each bowl 
well sprinkled with Parmesan cheese. Serves 4. 

Mrs. Cuartes W. Warinc (Margaret Simonds) 


CRAB SOUP—Combine 1 lb. crab meat, 1 can tomato soup, 
1 can green pea soup, | can bouillon. Let come to a boil and add 
Y% c. sherry wine. Serves 6-8. 
DESAUSSURE DEHON 


OYSTER STEW—Heat 1 can of ready-to-serve celery soup to 
boiling point. Add % pint small oysters. Bring to boiling point 
again, add sherry to taste and serve. Serves 2. 


Mrs. Roperr W. AcHurcn (Sue Thomas) 


290 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


TUNA SURPRISE—Combine 2 cans of condensed mushroom 
soup, 1 can tuna fish and % cup sherry wine. Place in casserole 
and cover top with potato chips. Bake in moderate oven. Serves 
4-6, Mrs. Frank B. Birturicur (Lila Rhett) 


CRAB OR SHRIMP CROQUETTES—Mix 2 cups of crab meat 
or ground shrimp, or 1 of each, with 1 can of condensed cream of 
mushroom soup. Season with 1% t. mace, 1 T. Worcestershire and 
sherry to taste. Add cracker meal to stiffen enough to form flat 
cakes. Coat cakes with more cracker meal and brown in butter. 
Serves 4. Mrs. Roperr W. AcHurcH (Sue Thomas) 

DEVILED CRABS—Combine 1 lb. crab meat, 2 T. melted 
butter and 1 c. mayonnaise dressing. Add 2 eggs, well beaten, salt, 
pepper and Worcestershire to taste. Fill crab shells, sprinkle with 
bread crumbs and bake 5 minutes in a hot oven. Yields: 8-10. 

Mrs. Wi.1AM A. Hutcainson (Eva Austin) 


EASY LOBSTER NEWBURG—Melt 1 T. butter, add 1 T. flour 
and cook a few minutes. Mix 1 egg yolk and 1 c. light cream and 
add to butter and flour, stirring constantly. Add salt, pepper, mace, 
nutmeg, Worcestershire to taste, 1 large can lobster and lastly 1 
wine-glass of sherry. Serve on toast. Serves 4. 

Mrs. Lionet Lecce (Dorothy Porcher) 

SHRIMP AND CRAB MEAT CREOLE—Alternate in glass 
baking dish, 1 pound cooked shrimp, 2 T. butter, buttered and 
toasted bread crumbs and 1 pound crab meat. To one can con- 
densed mushroom soup add 2 t. catsup, 1 T. Worcestershire, 1 
pinch cayenne pepper, ¥% t. salt and pour over all. Top with more 
crumbs and bake in oven for 20 to 80 minutes. Serves 10. 

Miss Caro.ine L. PoRcHER 

BROILED OYSTERS—Toast 1 or 2 pieces of bread for each 
serving. Butter toast, cover each piece with as many raw oysters 
as it will hold. Salt and pepper lightly. Cut bacon strips in half 
and cover oysters. Put under flame to broil bacon. Garnish with 
lemon slices and serve with dressing made by blending 2 T. each 
of tarragon vinegar, chile sauce, tomato catsup, 1 T. of Worcester- 
shire sauce and a little hot sauce, and heating thoroughly. 

Mrs. ArtrHur J. Stoney (Anne Montague) 


291 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


FISH CASSEROLE—Into a casserole, put in layers, 1 can flak- 
ed fish, 1 can condensed mushroom soup, | small package potato 
chips crumbled. Bake covered in moderate oven until thoroughly 
heated. Do not overcook. Serves 4-6. 

Mrs. ArtHur J. Stoney (Anne Montague) 


FRIED OKRA—Chop fresh okra fine and fry in bacon grease 
until brown, stirring constantly. Salt to taste. 
Mrs. Ernest Kine, Jr. (Mary Elizabeth Johnson) 


FRENCH-FRIED ONIONS—Make a thick batter of prepared 
pancake flour and evaporated milk. Soak Bermuda onions, thinly 
sliced, in ice water until crisp. Dip rings in batter and fry in deep 
hot fat. 

Mrs. Wi.Mer L. THompson (Mary Bissell McIver) 


QUICK HOPPING JOHN—Fry 2 slices of bacon and 1 slice 
of onion; add to 1 can field peas. Wash 1 c. rice, add to other 
ingredients with salt and pepper to taste. Steam 2 hour. Serves 6. 

Mrs. GERALD Tuomas (Lottie Johnson) 


RICE AND CHICKEN CASSEROLE—Combine 2 ec. cold 
chicken, 2 c. cooked rice, 1 green pepper, cut in strips and put in 
greased casserole . Mix 1 can condensed mushroom soup with 1 c. 
chicken gravy and 1% c. water. Pour over mixture in casserole. 
Bake in moderate oven 30 min. Serves 6. 

Mrs. GreraLp Tuomas (Lottie Johnson) 


LUNCHEON DISH—Add 1 c. cream sauce or 1 can condensed 
cream of chicken soup to any left over vegetables. Put in buttered 
ramekins. Place a poached egg on top and sprinkle with grated 
cheese. Place under broiler until cheese has melted. 

Mrs. Ratpu Mus (Elisabeth Stevens) 

SPOON BREAD—Mix 1% c. corn meal, 34 t. salt, 2 level t. 
baking powder, 1 level t. sugar, 3 c. milk, 1 egg. Have heating in 
a 500° oven, 2 heaping T. butter in a casserole. Add this melted 
butter to mixture and cook in same casserole 15 min. at 450°. Heat 
I c. milk while this bakes, and pour over mixture just as cooking 
S finished. Serves 6. 

Mrs. James Hacoop (Antoinette Camp) 


292 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


SPANISH RICE—Fry 4 strips of bacon, remove from pan and 
brown | large, or 2 or 8 small onions and 2 chopped green peppers 
in drippings. Add drained tomatoes from No. 2 can. Salt and 
pepper to taste and simmer until blended. Alternate cooked rice 
(left over or minute) and left over meat or chicken, cut in small 
pieces, in greased casserole. Pour tomato, onion and pepper mix- 
ture, to which has been added bacon broken in pieces, over rice 
and meat. Bake in moderate oven about 30 min. 

Mrs. WiLL1aAM L. MENGEBIER (Clelia Matthew) 


QUICK CHICKEN a la KING—Heat I can of condensed mush- 
room soup. Add 2 cans chicken and 2 drained pimientos cut fine. 
Season to taste. Serve in patty shells or on toast. Serves 4. 

Miss Nancy McIver 


BLUSHING BUNNY —Put 1 can condensed tomato soup and 
1 c. grated cheese in double boiler and cook until smooth. Add 1 
beaten egg, Worcestershire, salt and pepper to taste. Pour hot 
over toast. Serves 4. 
Mrs. Frank B. Birruricur (Lila Rhett) 


A QUICKIE—Heat together 1 can condensed cream of chicken 
soup, 4 hard cooked eggs, chopped, and 2 to 4 slices of bacon fried 
crisp. Serve hot on toast. Serves 4. 

Mrs. Frank B. Birruricur (Lila Rhett) 


CRANBERRY AND APPLE TARTS—Grind 1 Ib. raw cran- 
berries, picked over and washed, and 4 crisp apples. Combine 
and add sugar to taste. Use in patty shells made of prepared pie- 
crust-mix. Top with whipped cream. The apple and cranberry 
mixture makes a wonderful molded salad, using orange juice for 
liquid and adding chopped nuts. 

Mrs. Rosert W. AcHurcH (Sue Thomas) 

MINCEMEAT OR MARMALADE TURNOVERS-—Mix 1 
package of prepared pastry; roll thin and cut in rounds. Place 
1 t. of prepared mincemeat or marmalade on each round, fold into 
semicircles and crimp edges with fork. Bake in hot oven until 


brown. 
Mrs. JoserH Younc (Elizabeth Jenkins) 


298 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


TIPSY PARSON—Soak squares of sponge cake with rum. 
Cover with sherry flavored, sweetened whipped cream. Top with 
a cherry. 

Mrs. DaNiEL RAVENEL (Ruth Howe) 


CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM—Mix 1 pt. of cream, whipped, 
and ¥% pt. prepared chocolate sauce. Freeze in refrigerator. 
Mrs. JoHN BENNETT (Susan Smythe) 


SYLLABUB—Whisk together 1 qt. heavy cream, % pt. sweet 
milk, % pt. sherry wine and sugar to taste. 
From “Over THE TEACUPS” 


ORANGE SPONGE-Saturate a sponge cake layer with orange 
juice, cover with sweetened whipped cream. Decorate with grated 
nuts or orange rind. 

Mrs. ARTHUR J. Stoney (Anne Montague) 


KITTY’S COFFEE DESSERT—Melt 40 marshallows in % pt. 
black coffee over hot water. Cool. Then stir in % pt. cream 
whipped. Set to jell for three hours and serve topped with whip- 
ped cream. Serves 6. 

Mrs. WiLL1aM PorpHAM (Louisa Stoney) 


PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM—Whip 1 pint of heavy cream 
lightly, add 1 pint coffee cream and 1 can crushed pineapple. 
Sweeten to taste. Freeze in refrigerator, stirring once during freez- 
ing. Serves 6-8. ) 
Mrs. Joun Frost (Laura Green) 


LEMON SHERBET—To 1 quart of milk add slowly, stirring 
constantly, % c. lemon juice with sugar to taste. When partially 
frozen, beat well and return to refrigerator. Cut down on sugar if 
less sweet sherbet is desired. Serves 6. 


Miss SALLIE CARRINGTON 


ORANGE MOUSSE-—To 1 pint of heavy cream whipped, add 
1 6-oz. can of frozen orange juice concentrate and 1 pint coffee 
cream. Sweeten to taste and freeze. Serves 6. 
Mrs. Wm. H. Barnweiut (Suzanne Pringle) 


294 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


UPSIDE UP CAKE—Preheat oven to 450°. Mix 2 c. prepared 
biscuit mix with 34 c. cream and 2 T. sugar. Drop lightly into 
buttered square or oblong baking dish. Cover dough with fruit 
or berries which have been sprinkled with sugar. Dot top of fruit 
with sugar and butter creamed together. Bake 15 or 20 min. or 
until dough appears done. Serve with slightly sweetened whipped 
cream, or two t. of sugar to a cup of cream warmed, makes a nice 
sauce; season with almond, nutmeg or vanilla, depending on fruit. 
Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. ARTHUR J. Stoney (Anne Montague) 


STRAWBERRY ANGEL—Split a bought angel food cake in 
half crosswise. Spread top of one section with sliced strawberries 
(frozen or fresh); cover with sweetened whipped cream. Place 
second section on top, covering all with whipped cream and filling 


center with strawberries. Serves 8. 
Mrs. Joun WeEtcH (Julie Pringle) 


QUICKIE BROWNIES—Melt 3 squares of unsweetened choco- 
late and add 1 can condensed milk, 2 c. of vanilla wafer crumbs 
and 1 c. chopped nuts. Spread 34 in. thick in buttered pan and 
bake in oven at 300° about 30 min. 

Mrs. T. PriotEau Batu (Teresa Daniel) 


STICKIES—Mix prepared pastry and roll out to about % inch. 
Spread with brown sugar and chopped nuts and dot liberally with 
butter. Roll up and cut in ¥% in. slices. Bake in medium hot oven 
until brown. These must be removed from pan while hot to keep 
from breaking. 

Miss FRANCES JENKINS 


BENNE COOKIES—Beat an egg; add ¥% c. sugar, 2 T. flour, 
2 T. melted butter, 1 t. vanilla and enough parched benne seed to 
make a stiff mixture. Drop on a pan that has been greased and 
dredged with flour. Bake in moderate oven. Remove from pan 
after slightly cooled, but not cold. They become brittle very 
quickly. Chopped nuts or rice flakes may be substituted for benne 
seed. Yield: 3 dozen. 

Mrs. Rosert W. Acnurcu (Sue Thomas) 


295 


- NV 
APPENDIX 
Do, gracious! Dese bin all de ting wuh I done fergitl 


Appendices are postscripts with added information, 

Yet modern books possessing them create a mild sensation. 
Still, Charleston hostesses have found these items applicable 
And so we have included tkem in hopes they're serviceable. 
We trust youll read and will approve 

The appendix we did not remove. 


TABLES OF MEASURE 


Dry Measure Liquid Measure 
3 teaspoons—1 tablespoon 3 teaspoons—1 tablespoon 
16 tablespoons—1 cup ¥% fl. ounce—1 tablespoon 
2 cups—1 pint 16 tablespoons—1 cup 
2 pints—1 quart % cup—l gill 
8 quarts—l peck 4 fl. ounces—1 gill 
4 pecks—1 bushel 4 gills—1 pint 
1 barspoon—34 teaspoon 2 pints—l quart 


4 quarts—1 gallon 
1 jigger—14%4 ounces 
1 pony—1 ounce 


Average Can Size 


No. 1—1¥% cups 
No. 2—2% cups 
No. 24-83% cups 
No. 8—4 cups 

No. 10—13 cups 


298 


Me 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


TABLE OF EQUIVALENTS 


Almonds, chopped 
Asparagus 


Butter 
Butter 


Butter 
Chocolate, bitter 


Dates, pitted 
Eggs, whole 
Egg whites 
Egg yolks 
Figs, chopped 
our, bread 
Flour, whole wheat 
Flour, cake, sifted 
Lard 


Lemon, juiced 
ilk, skim 


M 
Nut pe. chopped 


Okra, cho sped 
Okra, whole 
Orange, juiced 
Peanuts, chopped 


Tomatoes, average 
Walnuts, black 
Walnuts, English 


Water 


AM COPSi2-- ee eo oe ee ee ee Os: Ibs=amshelled 
BU) Stalks ye dn Soe ate = ee Thy, 
SLISTG6 yee ee ee oe yo hy, 
TR Ge ee ee 3 hye" 
Ly CHD) Saree Lake een Se ye 
cp 2 a Pc a ORE OZ: 
2 Lcupsae See oo Sh: Sree ee eee tp: 
destickte: # ee ee ey CUT 
size leg yg yee oe Ps about % cup 
1 square ____ Re ee a ee OZ: 
% |b., pirated poe ene ee 1 cup 

5 cups ee eee by, 

Er eae Se See es: eee 40-50 cups 

SuCUpSia 24 eerie 92 eae | Ih: 
Dt CAUDS ie oa ee ae Bes eth, 
2% CUDS te ee 1 Ib. 
DL CUTE es ee 1 Ib. 
5p alan BI «ok Sit i 1 cup 
Sy Str) ee ee about 1 cup 
1 Ying Sse a a Nha __about 1 cup 
Oo LCUDS eee ee ee eee) ITY, 
O36 (CUDS pee ee 1b: 
4) Crips We aed eae 1 Ib. 
AR CUDS Fee 1 Ib. 
Te Cups cet ea ee ee 2% tb: 
J pee ee ee ee eee eer 163 tis 
Oni. SCAT fs ce oe ee ee ee IN) 
Av Clips fee ewes 1 bb. 


1 Ib. 
le te eee eee Soe lh, 
3% vate sifted (32 eee 1 Ib. 
2% cups packed firmly __ 1 lb. 
55 to 70 lumps _____ rae te 
4 pe we) eee ; 
3 cups chopped ___.__ 5% Ibs. unshelled 


4 cups choppe 2% lbs. unshelled 
Li Cups comet, ee ee ee eee eee) 1b: 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


HELPFUL COOKING HINTS 
1. To whip % pt. coffee cream: soak 1 t. gelatin in 1 T. cold water. Heat 3 T. 
coffee cream and pour over gelatin stirring until dissolved; cool and add remaining 


% pt. coffee cream. Whip when very cold. Use same proportions for larger amounts 
of cream. 


2. Corn syrup or honey may be substituted for % amount of sugar called for, if 
% less liquid is used. 


3. To bring out flavor of fowl and make it tender: rub fowl inside and out with 
1 t. each of salt, pepper and soda. Keep in refrigerator overnight. 


4. To keep cakes fresh put an apple cut in half in container. 


5. To bake ham: put ham in paper bag, twisting ends of bag and place in biscuit 
pan. Remove bag % hour before ham is done, skin and decorate ham as desired. 


6. To clear bacon grease for subsequent use: pour while liquid, but not hot, into 
a can containing cold water. Burnt portion will drop to bottom of can. 


7. To flour chicken for frying: shake in paper bag with flour. Cookles may be 
covered with confectioner’s sugar in the same way. 


8. Put a clove of garlic in a bottle of bought French dressing to improve favor. 


9. Left over cheeses of all kinds aa’ be put from time to time into a jar con- 
taining a little wine. When enough to be used has accumulated it will have a very 
intriguing flavor. 

10. Season sea food, especially crab and shrimp dishes, with a little mace. 

11. Cut down odor of cabbage, cauliflower, etc. when cooking by adding a little 
sear to cooking water. Vinegar also prevents white of poached eggs from 
spreading. 


12, Add 1 t. of salt to water to keep egg white from escaping a cracked shell 
when being boiled. 


13. Roll pastry between two sheets of wax paper. When the top paper is ea 
off, the pastry may be easily turned into a pie pan and other paper removed. 


14. To make fresh bread slice easily: place loaf in ice box and chill thoroughly. 


15. To melt chocolate: grease pot in which it is to be melted and place over 
boiling water. 


16. To make croquettes light and creamy inside: use cream sauce instead of eggs. 


Wes MiG) l a coconut: drain milk, place nut in oven until hot to touch, remove 
and tap all over with a hammer, particularly at ends, give one hard knock and shell 
will crack open. Lift shell off, peel brown skin and cool before grating or grinding. 


298 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


18. To measure molasses: grease cup in which it is to be measured. 


19. To measure shortening: subtract amount of shortening required from 1 cup; 
fill cup with water to amount of difference and add shortening until water level 
measures 1 cup. Lift shortening from water and you will not have wasted any 
on sides of cup. 


20. To vary taste of vegetables: add a oe of dried thyme to fresh carrots; cook a 
sprig of fresh mint with green peas; add % t. minced fresh marjoram to butter when 
melting and pour over cooked spinach. 


21. To remove excessive taste of salt from food: while cooking add 1 t. each of 
vinegar and sugar, or in soup, add a few slices of raw potato. 


ae te bit of sugar in batter of pancakes or waffles will make them brown more 
quickly. 


23. Sugar may be softened by placing in warm oven for 10 or 15 minutes. 


24. “ee make nut meats come out whole: soak nuts in salt water overnight before 
cracking. 


25. Sprinkle salt in frying pan before frying meat to prevent fat from splashing. 


26. To sour sweet milk: add 1 T. vinegar or lemon juice to each cup and let 
stand for a few minutes. 


27. To freshen sour milk: add % t. baking soda and use 2 t. less of baking powder 
than receipt calls for. 


28. Peel an onion under running water to keep back the tears. 


29. To rid vegetables of insects: add a pinch of borax and a little vinegar to the 
water in which they are washed. 


30. To peel dried fruits: wash in warm water, drain, then cover with boiling water 
and let stand until cool. 


31. To freshen wilted greens: douse quickly in hot and then ice water, with a 
little vinegar added. 


32. To keep parsley fresh for a long time: wash and store in tightly covered jar 
in refrigerator. 


33. To blanch almonds: cover shelled almonds with boiling water, allow to cool, 
slip off skins. 


34, Wrap a cloth moistened with vinegar around cheese to keep it fresh. 


35. To keep macaroni from boiling over: put a T. of butter in water. 


299 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


36. To make potatoes light and fluffy: add a pinch of baking soda as well as hot 
milk and butter. 


37. Add a little salt to flour before mixing to prevent lumping. 
38. Use a nutmeg grater to remove burnt edges from cake. 


39. Heat molasses and butter together—1 T. butter to each cup of molasses—for 
use on waffles or pancakes. Tastes good and saves butter. 


40. Adding sugar to water in which some vegetables are cooked improves flavor: 
for art potatoes add 1 heaping t.; for peas, cabbage, turnips, beets and corn add 
1 level t. 


41. To preserve yolks of eggs in refrigerator: slide into a bowl and cover with 
cold water. 


42. Dry celery in warm oven and store in tightly covered jar for use as seasoning. 


43. To keep layer cake from crumbling when being sliced: cut square in center 
of cake before slicing from outside edge. 


44, Dipping citrus fruit in hot water before squeezing will increase amount of 
juice that can be obtained. 


45. A pinch of salt added to the sugar in making icings will prevent graining. 


46. 12 qts. punch makes 96 cups. 
One gal. of punch, 32 servings. 
A 12 Ib. ham serves 20. 
To serve cold sliced turkey or chicken to 25 people, allow 20 lbs. of poultry, 
drawn weight. 
A 4 lb. chicken—drawn weight—makes 4 cups of diced chicken. 
One gal. of ice cream will serve 30 people if served with scoop. 
An 11 in. casserole of scalloped potatoes serves 8 generously. 


47. Fruit cake almond paste may be quickly made by buying the almond paste 
from a pastry shop; adding an equal amount of granulated sugar and diluting to 
proper consistency with rose water. 


48. French fry carrots like potatoes for a change. 


49. Wild ducks are easier to pick if dipped in, or painted with, melted paraffin. 
When it is cool ier the paraffin off; site feathers come too. Allow 1 cake of 
paraffin for each duck 


50. If water called for in package pie-crust mix is reduced, a much tenderer 
pene will result. In a damp climate the liquid may be reduced as much as one 


800 


SUPPLEMENT 


Do, goodness! Ent I bin tell yo’ bout dese, too? 


Our friends are generous and kind; 
They recently bethougkt them 

Of fine ‘receipts they had forgot 

When first we called and sought them. 
This chapter holds the precepts which 
They have so kindly brought. 

We think you'll share our pleasure in 
Each tasty afterthough. 


Kinloch Plantation Special 


For each serving: 
¥Y heaping teaspoon orange A little water 

marmalade Generous portion of whiskey 
Nutmeg Cracked ice 


Dissolve marmalade with a dash of nutmeg in water; add 
whiskey, more nutmeg, ice and shake well. Serve in an old- 
fashioned glass with another dash of nutmeg on top. 

EUGENE DUPONT 


Potent Potion 
Y% pint water 1 teaspoon angostura bitters 
Y4 pint vermouth 5 teaspoons sugar 
1 pint rye whiskey Rind of %4 lemon 


This can be kept indefinitely, but lemon rind should be taken 


out after three days. 16 servings. 
Miss Mary Deas RAVENEL 


Tradd Alley Punch 


2 quarts sherry 4 tablespoons sugar 
Y% pint good brandy Juice of 2 lemons 
Y% pint rum Maraschino cherries 


Add cherries to stock and pour over ice in punch bowl. 25-30 


servings. 
Miss Mary Deas RAVENEL 


301 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Champagne Punch for the Wedding 


1 bottle champagne 1 ounce cognac 
YZ ounce curacao 

To every bottle of champagne: use cognac and curacao in 
above proportions, mixed several hours beforehand. When ready 
to serve, pour necessary amount of this mixture over a block of 
ice in a cold punch bowl and add thoroughly chilled champagne. 
Stir and serve at once without ladling back and forth over ice, 
as this eliminates the bubbles. (1 bottle good dry white wine, 
chilled, may be substituted for every third bottle of champagne.) 
Allow 83 servings per guest, 3 ounces to the punch cup. 

A ConNoIssEUR 


Francis Marion Reception Punch 


1 quart can frozen 2 (No. 5) cans pineapple 
orange juice juice 
3 quarts ice water 4 quarts carbonated water 
1 (6 ounce) can frozen or ginger ale 
lemon juice or juice 2 cups sugar, dissolved in 
of 18 lemons 2 cups water (if 
desired ) 


Mix stock thoroughly and chill. When ready to serve, pour 
half the quantity over large lump of ice in punch bowl and add 
2 quarts carbonated water or ginger ale. Use other half of stock 
and two more quarts of carbonated water or ginger ale as needed. 
(This keeps the punch “alive”). Add the sugar only if more 
sweetening is desired. (If to be used as a base for punch “with 
spirits”, omit sugar and substitute alcoholic beverage for pineapple 
juice—about 4 quarts). 100 servings. 

Mrs. KaTHeRIne Herman (Katherine Sheridan) 


Soirée Punch 


2 quarts ginger ale 1 quart orange sherbet 
Have ginger ale very cold. Pour one quart over sherbet in 
punch bowl ¥% hour before serving: add second quart when ready 
to serve. 16-20 servings. 
Mrs. Henry C. Rosertson, Jr. (Elizabeth Lebby) 


802 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cocktail Biscuits 
1 cup sifted flour ¥% cup milk 
2 teaspoons baking powder 3-4 tablespoons cooking oil 
¥% level teaspoon salt 1 cup ground country ham 
3 level tablespoons shorten- % pound grated sharp 
ing cheese 


Mix dry ingredients. Cut in shortening with knife. Add 
liquid gradually. Roll on floured board to 34” thickness. Shape 
with small biscuit cutter. Place in shallow pan into which cooking 
oil has been poured 14” the depth of the pan. Bake in 450° oven 
12-15 minutes. Variation: Add ham or cheese to dough. Yield: 
18 biscuits. 

Mrs. Traprer JERVEY (Mary Trott) 


Caraway Sticks 


2 cups flour 1 egg white 
1 cup shortening Water 
1 yeast cake Caraway seeds 


Cut shortening into flour, rub with fingers. When thoroughly 
mixed, crumble the yeast over it and work with a pastry blender. 
Let stand one hour. Roll pieces of the dough into very thin sticks. 
Place on cookie sheet; brush with egg white that has been mixed 
with a little water; place on each stick a line of caraway seeds. Let 
rise until double in size. Cook in 400° oven 15 minutes. Makes 
many dozen. 

Mrs. Joun ANpREw Hamiiton (Elizabeth Verner) 


Mock Paté de Foie Gras Canapé 


1 pound chicken livers 1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
1 teaspoon salt 1 tablespoon brandy 

1 clove garlic 1 wineglass sherry 

Y, pound butter 2 drops hot sauce 


Salt and pepper to taste 
Boil livers with salt and garlic until tender. When cool, put 
livers through ricer. Cream butter, add liver and seasoning. Yield: 


48 canapés. 
Miss I. L. Dawson 


803 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Shrimp Canapé au Rhum 


1% pounds shrimp ¥% teaspoon onion juice 
¥% cup light rum Y% teaspoon dry mustard 
Y% pound butter Lemon juice to taste 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Marinate boiled, peeled shrimp in rum for one hour or more. 
Run twice through a fine meat grinder. Cream butter. Combine 
with shrimp, onion juice, dry mustard, lemon juice, salt and pepper. 
Mix thoroughly. Chill and serve on small bread squares or potato 
chips. 

Mrs. Henry Epmunps (Frances Smythe) 


Aunt Blanche’s She-Crab Soup 


As given to me by my aunt, Mrs. R. Goodwyn Rhett. 


1 cup white crab meat 2 cups milk 

2 tablespoons butter Y% cup cream 

1 small onion, grated 2 tablespoons Worcestershire | 
Salt and pepper to taste 2 teaspoons flour 

¥% teaspoon mace 1 tablespoon water 

3 ribs celery, grated 3 tablespoons sherry 


Put crab in double boiler; add butter, onion, salt, pepper, mace 
and celery. Let simmer for 5 minutes. Heat milk and add to crab 
mixture. Stir, add cream and Worcestershire sauce. Thicken with 
paste made of flour and water. Add sherry. Cook over low heat 
for % hour. Serves 4. 

Mrs. C. O. SpaRKMAN (Mary Simonds) 


Company Oyster Stew 


1 quart small oysters Y% pint heavy cream 
Suggestion of grated onion 3 tablespoons butter 

% cup finely cut celery Salt, pepper and paprika 
% cup milk 1 tablespoon dry sherry 


304 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Strain oysters, saving liquor. Add onion to oysters and heat 
in liquor until edges’ curl. Into a heavy saucepan put celery and 
milk; simmer about 3 minutes. Add cream and butter, bring to 
the boiling point. Turn off heat and slowly add oysters and liquor. 
Add seasonings. Keep hot, but never let boil from this point. 
Heated sherry may be added, but try first without. Serve in hot 
soup plates with oyster crackers. Good with grapefruit-avocado 
salad and coffee. Serves 3-4, if the main dish. 

Mrs. R. BARNWELL RueETT (Virginia Prettyman) 


Oyster Soup 


3 tablespoons butter Y% teaspoon black pepper 
34 cup diced celery 4 teaspoon monosodium 
2 tablespoons flour glutamate 

1 quart whole milk 1 blade mace 

1 pint oysters ¥% teaspoon onion juice 

1 teaspoon salt (optional ) 


Over medium heat, melt butter and cook celery until tender. 
Shake in flour, stirring constantly. Pour in a little milk and stir until 
smooth, then slowly add remainder of milk. Add dry seasonings 
and cook until boiling point is reached. Add oysters and oyster 
liquor and onion juice, if desired. Serve as soon as oysters are 
thoroughly hot and plump. Serves 4-6. 

Mrs. Louis T. Parker (Josephine Walker) 


Okra Soup 


1 large beef shank 1 (No. 2) can tomatoes 

4 quarts water 1 (No. 2% ) can tomatoes 
Salt and pepper 1 medium onion, chopped 
3 quarts okra, cut small 1 teaspoon sugar 


1 extra quart water 
Boil shank in 4 quarts of salted water until tender. Add okra, 
tomatoes, onion, sugar, salt and pepper. Cook slowly about 5 
hours, adding extra water as soup cooks down. Yield: about 5 
quarts. 
Mrs. Dav Hucvuent (Lavinia Inglesby) 


305 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Grouper Cubillon 


3 pounds grouper 2 green peppers, chopped 
1 quart water 6 medium onions, chopped 
2 ribs celery ¥, pound butter or 34 cup 
1 onion, quartered olive oil 

1 bay leaf 3 (No. 2) cans tomatoes 
134 teaspoons salt 1 clove garlic, crushed 

6 peppercorns 3 bay leaves 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Cut fish into small cubes, reserving heads and large bones for 
stock. Use them with 6 ingredients, next listed, and simmer to- 
gether until stock is reduced to half. In a deep skillet, cook peppers 
and onions in the fat until tender. Add remaining ingredients and 
cook 10 minutes more. Add stock until the mixture is of chowder 
consistency and gently place fish on top. Let simmer, without 
boiling, for 10 minutes. Do not stir. When fish is cooked, mix 
together and serve in soup plates with French bread. (Any chowder 
fish may be used.) Serves 8. 


Mrs. SerceE PouTiaTINE (Shirley Manning) 


Tomato Emincé 


7 very large tomatoes 5 tablespoons mayonnaise 
1 small onion, grated 1 heaping tablespoon minced 
134 teaspoons salt parsley 


14 teaspoon ground pepper 1 teaspoon curry powder 


Scald, skin and chop tomatoes. Add onion, salt and pepper. 
Chill in freezing tray of refrigerator until very cold, but not frozen. 
Mix mayonnaise, parsley and curry thoroughly. Serve tomato mix- 
ture in chilled bouillon cups and top each with 2 teaspoons of the 
curried mayonnaise. Serves 4-5. 


Mrs. SercE Poutiatine (Shirley Manning) 


306 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


My Favorite Shrimp Pie 


8 slices bread, cubed 3 eggs, well beaten 
1 cup milk 1 cup chopped green pepper 
2 cups cooked shrimp and celery, mixed 


2 tablespoons melted butter Salt and pepper to taste 
Soak bread in milk and mash with fork. Add shrimp, butter, 
eggs and other seasonings. Turn it into buttered casserole and 
bake in moderately hot oven about 20 minutes. Serves 4-6. 
James F. Byrnes, Governor or SOUTH CAROLINA 


Sullivan’s Island Shrimp 


1 pound sliced bacon, chop- _—2 cloves garlic 


ped 1 teaspoon celery seed 
Y% pound butter 1 teaspoon powdered allspice 
2 cups chopped onions 1 teaspoon curry powder 
2 cups chopped celery 1 lemon, sliced thin 
2 (No. 2%) cans tomatoes Hot sauce to taste 
1 can water 5 pounds raw dressed shrimp 
1 can condensed tomato soup _—1 cup crushed saltine crack- 
1 bottle tomato catsup ers 
1 tablespoon salt 1 cup sherry 


Cook bacon in frying pan until crisp, remove. Add butter, 
onion and celery to grease in pan; sauté until tender. Transfer 
bacon and this mixture to large pot, add remaining ingredients 
(except shrimp, cracker crumbs and sherry) and cook slowly for 
2 hours until mixture thickens. Add raw shrimp and cook until 
shrimp are done. Add cracker crumbs and sherry and serve with 
fluffy rice. Serves 16. . 

Mrs. Cornetrus Hucuentn (Evelyn Anderson 


Deviled Crabs 
(Quickly prepared and eaten) 


Mix 1 pound crab meat with 1 cup mayonnaise (a commercial 
brand may be used); season with juice of 1 lemon, % teaspoon Wor- 
cestershire sauce, 2 tablespoons chopped parsley, hot sauce, salt and 
pepper. Put in shells, cover with buttered crumbs, bake in 400° 
oven 30 minutes. Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. R. BARNWELL Ruetr (Virginia Prettyman) 


207 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


ye ohy 


“Maum Nancy’s” Scalloped Oysters 


This receipt was obtained by my father from his cook, “Maum 
Nancy”—a former slave. 


1 cup toasted bread crumbs Black and red pepper to taste 
¥% teaspoon grated nutmeg 1 quart oysters (drained) 


Pinch of mace 1 wineglass sherry 
4 or 5 cloves (beaten) 34 cup liquor from oysters 
Salt to taste Butter 


Mix crumbs and dry seasonings. Into a baking dish put, alter- 
nately, a layer of crumb mixture, then one of oysters and small 
pieces of butter. Pour wine and oyster liquor (mixed) over each 
layer to moisten. Finish with a layer of crumbs, dotted with butter. 
Bake slowly in a moderate oven about 45 minutes . Serves 6. 


Mrs. WitL1AM Henry Parker (Elizabeth E. Robertson) 


Cream Sauce for Shrimp, 
Lobster or Chicken 


134 cups milk Dash of red pepper 

3 tablespoons flour 34 teaspoon salt 

% pound butter 2 egg yolks, beaten 

1 tablespoon green pepper, 34 cup heavy cream 
chopped 1 cup mushrooms, chopped 

1 tablespoon pimiento, 3 pounds shrimp or 
chopped 3 pounds lobsters, picked, or 

¥% small onion, chopped 1 (4 pound) hen (diced, 

1 teaspoon Worcestershire cooked meat) 
sauce 


Using double boiler, make a thick white sauce of the milk, flour, 
butter; then add green pepper, pimiento, onion, Worcestershire, red 
pepper and salt. Mix egg yolks and cream, then add to sauce just 
before stirring in mushrooms and shrimp, lobster or chicken . Make 
just before serving. Delicious with curried rice. Serves 8. 


Mrs. Henry J. Mann (Florence Hossley) 
308 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Carolina Barbecued Chicken 


Juice of 1 lemon Salt to taste 
Vinegar Black and red pepper to taste 
Water \%4 pound butter 


1 broiling-size chicken 


Measure lemon juice, add equal amount of vinegar; measure 
lemon juice and vinegar, add equal amount of water. Add season- 
ings, then melted butter. Split chicken in half; cover with above 
liquid ingredients; place breast side down in oven bottom under 
flame; set broiler at 300°. Baste frequently, turning chicken after 
1 hour, cooking about 2 hours altogether. Turn broiler higher last 
Y% hour to brown chicken. Serves 2. 


Mrs. Aston Ramsay (Hazel Hunter) 


Chicken Country Captain 


1 bunch parsley (chopped) Salt and pepper to taste 
4 green peppers (chopped) 1 clove garlic (chopped) 


2 large onions (chopped) 2 fryers, cut in pieces 
Cooking oil Paprika and flour 

1 (No. 2%4) can tomatoes 4 box currants 

1 teaspoon mace Cooked rice 


2 teaspoons curry powder ¥% pound blanched almonds 


Fry parsley, green peppers and onions in cooking oil slowly for 
15 minutes. Put this mixture in roaster and add tomatoes, spices, 
salt and pepper. Simmer 15 minutes, then add garlic. Dredge 
chicken in a mixture of flour, salt, pepper and paprika. Fry till 
brown. Lay chicken in the sauce and simmer at 275° in a covered 
roaster for 11%4 to 2 hours. Add currants % hour before serving. 
Arrange rice on a large platter, pour sauce over this and place 
pieces of chicken on top. Sprinkle toasted almonds on chicken. 
Serves 8. 

Mrs. E. H. peSaussurE (Eleanor Charlton) 


309 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Chicken Soufflé 


Part I 
6 tablespoons butter Salt and pepper to taste 
6 tablespoons flour 4 cup minced mushrooms 
2 cups milk 1% cups diced chicken 


Make heavy cream sauce of above ingredients except the 
chicken, adding this when sauce has been cooked. Allow to cool. 


Part II 


3 tablespoons butter Salt and pepper to taste 
3 tablespoons flour 4 egg yolks (beaten) 
1 cup milk 4 egg whites (beaten) 


Make a second cream sauce of the butter, flour, milk, salt and 
pepper. Pour slowly on beaten yolks. Fold in stiffly beaten egg 
whites. Put mixture of Part I in bottom of buttered baking dish, 
then pour soufflé mixture on top. Set baking dish in pan of hot 
water. Bake in 325° oven 40 minutes. (A 10%-ounce can of 
condensed cream of mushroom soup may be substituted for the 
mushroom sauce of Part I, but it is not as good). Serves 6. 

Miss CAROLINE ALSTON 


Hot Apple Sauce with Rum 


1 (No. 2) can apple sauce Dash of cinnamon, cloves, 
1 (No. 1) can sliced nutmeg 
pineapple 2 tablespoons rum 
1 tablespoon lemon juice \% cup toasted slivered 
1 tablespoon (or more) almonds 
cornstarch 


Heat apple sauce and drained pineapple (cut in small pieces). 
In a separate pan mix pineapple and lemon juice, add cornstarch 
and cook until it thickens. Add spices and rum. Just before sery- 
ing, sprinkle with almonds. Serves 4. 
Mrs. W. Jervey RaveneL (Kathryn Martin) 


310 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Black Magic with Gravies 


Remember the redoubtable cook on Blue Brook Plantation in 
Julia Peterkin’s novel, “Black April’? I am sure her gravies were of 
a thinness, brownness and piquancy evolved in an earlier time when 
meats and fowl were roasted on a turning spit before a blazing fire, 
their precious juices caught in the tin trough of the spit. Here is a 
formula I like to think she followed and which applies to beef, 
pork, lamb, turkey or chicken gravy: 

4 tbs. drippings, 3 tbs. flour, 2% cups liquid, seasonings. 

Here's how. When meat or fowl is done, remove from roasting 
pan and pour off all fat, being careful not to lose any of the brown 
sediment. Place pan over top-stove heat, measure back the fat, 
stir in flour to make a smooth roux; then, SLOWLY, add liquid, 
stirring all the while and scraping bottom of pan for brown color- 
ing. Let boil up, cut off heat, add salt and pepper to taste. Com- 
mercial seasonings, liquid or powder, may be added if desired. 

Water is the liquid used for meat gravy. For fowl, simmer 
neck and giblets in three cups water with two ribs minced celery. 
Use this stock, with celery and enough water to make three cups 
liquid, for gravy. Add giblets and two hard-boiled eggs, chopped. 
A trick which insures richer, browner gravy and a prettier bird is 
to cover entire outside of turkey or chicken with a thick paste of 
melted butter, (margarine) and flour. Place fowl in open roasting 
pan in 500° oven and bring to a deep, golden brown, then reduce 
temperature to 325° and finish cooking, covered, basting now and 
then. When done, liquid in pan will be full of dark-brown crumbs 
which will much improve the gravy. 

This buttery paste works wonders on broilers, allowing 14 chick- 
en per serving. Split front and back, rub in salt and pepper, cover 
with paste and brown as above. Reduce heat, add a little diced 
celery with %4 cup of water, and cook, covered, 45 minutes longer. 
When making gravy, add one small can cut mushrooms, with liquor. 
Serve on big chop dish, surrounding a mound of dry rice, and gar- 
nish with pickled peaches. 

Try thinly-sliced onions to cover beef roast while cooking, then 
add to gravy; try capers with lamb; try a pinch of sage for pork. 
Try minced parsley, oregano, thyme—experiment and enjoy it. 

Mrs. Dean M. Docxstaver (Mary Ralls) 
811 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cypress Gardens’ Eggplant and Cauliflower 

1 eggplant, fried 1 cup hollandaise sauce 

1 cauliflower, boiled (page 156) 

Tarragon, dry or grated 

To fry eggplant: peel, then cut in % inch slices; soak in salted 
water 30 minutes, drain and wipe dry; add salt and pepper; dredge 
with flour; dip in mixture of 1 beaten egg and 1% tablespoons 
water; roll in bread crumbs; fry in hot fat until deep brown; drain 
on brown paper. 

Using one slice of fried eggplant per person, arrange small 
flowerets of cauliflower in a mound on eggplant. Cover this with 
hollandaise sauce to which a little tarragon has been added. Use 
as a first course, followed by cold meat and a salad. Serves 4-6. 

Mrs. BENJAMIN KirrrepcE, Jr. (Carola Kip) 


Lowndes Street Potatoes au Gratin 


5-6 potatoes 2 cups cream sauce 
¥% pound grated sharp cheese 

Cover whole peeled potatoes with boiling salted water and 
cook about 85 minutes. To make cream sauce: use 4 tablespoons 
butter, 4 tablespoons flour, 2 cups milk, salt and pepper. Add half 
of cheese to sauce. Slice and place layer of potatoes in casserole, 
cover with part of sauce, continue thus until all potatoes and sauce 
are used. Cover top with remaining cheese and bake in 875° oven 
15 to 20 minutes. Serves 6. 

Mrs. C. Stuart Dawson (May Hutson) 


Corn Soufflé 


2 cups corn (raw) 1% tablespoons butter 
2 eggs, separated (melted ) 


Salt and pepper to taste 
2 cups scalded milk 
Grate enough raw corn (including juice) for 2 cups. Add 
thickly beaten yolks, butter and seasonings; add scalded milk; then 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in buttered dish in 375° oven until 
firm, (50-60 minutes). Serves 4-6. 


Mrs. Epwarp Manicautt (Mary Hamilton) 
$12 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Bread 


1 package dry yeast 4 tablespoons cooking oil 
34 cup lukewarm water 2 eggs 
3 tablespoons sugar 1 tablespoon salt 


1 can (14% oz.) evaporated 6-7 (approx.) cups flour 
milk Cooking oil (small amount) 


Dissolve yeast in water in large bowl of electric mixer. Add 
sugar, beat 5 minutes, add milk, then cooking oil, then eggs. Con- 
tinue beating at high speed. (Go dust the dining room or make a 
couple of beds—fifteen minutes is not too long at this stage). Add 
salt. Add flour in following manner: with the beater going very 
slowly, add flour a little at a time; let the speed increase and beat 
for 5 minutes after adding 1% cups; then continue adding until 
dough becomes too stiff for beater. Remove from beaters and add 
remaining flour and stir with wooden spoon. When little pockets 
no longer form in the dough, pat a little cooking oil on top and 
place in ice box! There it will rise like mad for several hours until 
it reaches the top of the bowl. Rolls, coffee cake or bread can 
now be made. 


LOAF BREAD 
Divide dough into 2 parts and put in oiled loaf pans. Let rise 
until it nearly reaches the top of the pans. Bake in 250° oven for 
one hour; the smell of it makes your family feel home is really the 
place it’s cracked up to be. 


ROLLS 
Dip your fingers in oil. Pick up small balls of dough, put them 
in muffin tins, 3 ata time. Let rise. Bake in hot oven until brown. 


COFFEE CAKE 
Put half the dough on a well floured board. Knead more flour 
into it until it becomes elastic and easy to handle. Roll, with rolling 
pin, as thin as possible. Dot with butter, brown sugar, cinnamon, 
raisins, nuts. Roll up, place on a cookie sheet. shape into a crescent, 
slash the top and sprinkle with cinnamon and brown sugar rubbed 
together. Let rise. Bake in moderately hot oven about 25 minutes. 
Mrs. Joun ANDREW Hamiton (Elizabeth Verner) 


313 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


“Melmore” Sally Lunn 


¥%4 cake compressed yeast 134 cups new milk 
% cup new milk, scalded 4 cups bread flour 
and cooled to lukewarm _1 teaspoon salt 
2 eggs 2 tablespoons butter 
2 tablespoons sugar softened, but not hot 


Soften yeast in the lukewarm milk. Beat eggs, add sugar, milk 
and yeast mixture. Sift in flour and salt and beat until perfectly 
smooth. Add butter and beat again. Let rise until almost double 
in bulk. Beat down with a spoon, and this time pour in a well 
buttered cake pan, one with center funnel is prettiest. Let rise to 
almost double in bulk, and bake in moderate oven for 1 hour, cov- 
ering after the first 14 hour. Turn from the pan and serve hot. 
(4 hours for the entire process). Serves 8-10. 

Mrs. ArtHur J. Stoney (Anne Montague) 


Spoon Corn Bread 


1 scant cup corn meal 1 teaspoon salt 
3 cups milk 3 level teaspoons baking 
3 eggs, well beaten powder 


1 rounded tablespoon butter 
Stir meal into 2 cups milk, let come to a boil, stirring con- 
stantly, making a mush. Then add balance of milk, well beaten 
eggs, salt, baking powder and butter, melted. Turn at once into a 
quart size, well greased, glass baking dish. Bake in 400° oven 
about 82 minutes or until done. Serves 6. 
Mrs. Joun Laurens (May Rose) 


Garlic Bread 


Mince 1 clove garlic and add to % pound butter (melted). 
Cut loaf of French bread in % inch slices, leaving loaf intact at 
bottom. Brush slices and top of loaf with garlic butter; heat in 
350° oven 15 minutes. Serves 6-8. 

Mrs. Toomas A. Hucuenin (Mary Vereen) 


314 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Philpy 


% cup milk ’ 34 cup soft, cooked rice 
¥% cup flour 2 teaspoons melted butter 
¥% teaspoon salt 1 egg, well beaten 


Add milk slowly to flour and salt, beating to avoid lumping. 
Mash rice until fairly smooth. Combine with flour mixture; add 
butter and egg; bake in a greased layer cake tin in a 450° oven for 
30 minutes. When done, slice, split open and butter generously. 
Serves 4-6. 

Mrs. Aston Ramsey (Hazel Hunter) 


Miss Adkins’ Crisp Buttermilk Waffles 


34 cup flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 
¥%4 teaspoon soda 2 eggs, well beaten 
Y4 teaspoon salt 34 cup (approx.) buttermilk 


5 tablespoons cooking oil 


Sift together the flour, soda, salt and baking powder. To the 
beaten eggs add a portion of the above dry mixture, then a small 
amount of buttermilk, mixing well. Continue to alternate three 
times, using all flour mixture and enough buttermilk to make a thin 
batter. Add cooking oil and stir well, just blending. Cook im- 
mediately. Yield: 4 waffles. 

Miss L. A. PASSATLAIGUE 


Fruit Salad 


Ingredients: 2 (No. 2) cans orange and grapefruit sections, 1 
(No. 2) can pineapple chunks, 1 box plain gelatine, juice of 1 
lemon. Add 3% cup of the liquid from the cans to the 4 envelopes 
of gelatine. Heat 34 cup of the liquid from the cans. Dissolve 
the gelatine mixture in the hot liquid and add to the fruit and 
lemon juice. Pour into greased molds. Serves 8-10. 

Mrs. Krntoch McDowe Lt (Annie Bissell) 


315 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Plum Pudding (without suet) 


1 pound seeded raisins 6 eggs (well beaten) 

1 pound currants 4 pound bread crumbs 
Y pound citron, chopped ¥% pint milk 

% pound flour 1 whole nutmeg, grated 
¥% pound butter 4 tablespoons sherry or 
Y% teaspoon salt brandy 

4 pound brown sugar Rum 


Dredge fruit in most of the flour. Cream butter and sugar, add 
eggs, any remaining flour and bread crumbs scalded in milk. Add 
fruit, nutmeg, spirits and mix well. Pour into well greased tins 
covered tightly and steam for 6 hours. Serve with hard sauce. If 
the pudding is not used immediately, it should be steamed for 1 
hour again before serving. Fills two 1-pound coffee tins or 1 large 
melon mold. Rum may be poured around the pudding and ignited 
before serving . Serves 8-10. 

Mrs. J. Apptson INcLE (Helen Jervey) 


Rum Regale 


1 quart milk 8 tablespoons cornstarch 
1 cup sugar 4 eggs 
4 teaspoon salt ¥4 stick butter 


2 teaspoons vanilla 


Heat milk in top of double boiler. Mix sugar, salt, and cornstarch 
in large bowl and slowly add scalded milk. Pour this mixture slowly 
into beaten eggs, return to double boiler and cook until very thick, 
stirring constantly. Add butter, vanilla and beat until smooth. 
Cool. 


2 nine-inch sponge layers 1 pint whipping cream 
Y% cup light rum 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Split sponge layers in half. Pour %4 of the rum in dinner plate 
and place one layer on plate to absorb rum. Repeat for remaining 
layers. Put cake together with custard filling and chill for 24 hours. 
Tce with sweetened whipped cream. Serves 10-12. 
Mrs. Cornetius Hucuentn (Evelyn Anderson) 


316 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Charleston Mud Hens 


1 cup sugar Pinch of salt 

% pound butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 large eggs 1 pound brown sugar 

1% cups plain flour 1 teaspoon lemon juice 

1 level teaspoon baking 1 cup nuts, broken 
powder 


Cream sugar and butter, add 8 yolks and 1 white of egg, add 
flour which has been sifted with baking powder and salt. Add 
vanilla. Pat evenly with floured hand on 1714” x 1114” greased, 
floured cookie sheet. Cream brown sugar, lemon juice and 2 egg 
whites, then spread evenly on top of first mixture. Sprinkle nuts 
on top. Bake in 375° oven about 20 minutes. Cut in 35 squares 
or break in small pieces (serving 24) and top with whipped cream 


(1 pint). 
Mrs. Mary H. Barry (Mary Huguenin) 


Berry Dumpling 


1% cups flour 1 egg 

1 teaspoon baking powder % cup milk 

Y4 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 tablespoons shortening 4 cup sugar 


1 quart berries (blackberries or huckleberries) 


Mix and sift dry ingredients; cut in shortening; add beaten egg 
and milk. Mash berries thoroughly, mix well with sugar and vanilla. 
Combine the two mixtures until completely blended. Pour into a 
floured cloth, tie securely, and place in large pot of boiling water; 
boil for about two hours. Serve with generous portion of hard 
sauce flavored with rum or whiskey. (A 80-inch square of un- 
bleached muslin makes a good dumpling cloth). The dumpling 
will be semi-soft, not stiff. Serves 6. 


Mrs. Harry M. Rusm (Ruth Ensel) 


317 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Lady Baltimore Cake 


¥% cup butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 
1% cups sugar \%4 teaspoon salt 

2 cups sifted cake flour 1 teaspoon almond extract 
¥% cup milk 3 egg whites 


Cream butter, add sugar gradually. Cream until light. Add 
baking powder and salt to sifted flour; sift three times. Add flour 
mixture alternately with milk in small amounts, beating after each 
addition. Add almond extract. Beat whites of eggs until they 
stand in moist peaks, fold well in flour mixture. Bake in 2 greased 
8” layer pans in 375° oven 20 to 25 minutes. Serves 12. Double 
quantity makes three 9” layers and serves 16-20. 


ICING AND FILLING 


1 cup seeded raisins, Y% cup water 

chopped. Y% teaspoon cream of tartar 
1 cup English walnuts, 2 egg whites 

chopped 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
Y% cup sherry wine 1 teaspoon almond extract 


2 cups sugar 


Soak raisins and nuts in wine overnight. Boil sugar and water 
until the syrup ropes a heavy thread. Add cream of tartar to egg 
whites and beat until they stand in moist peaks, slowly pour the hot 
syrup onto the whites while beating constantly, add flavoring and 
beat until stiff enough to spread, then add raisins and nuts (well 
drained) and beat again until glazed looking. Spread between 
layers, on top and sides. Double quantity for 3 layer 9” cake. 

Mrs. JoHN Laurens (May Rose) 


Yummy Cake 


¥Y, cup shortening 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Y% cup sugar 1% cups flour, sifted 
1 egg 1 cup brown sugar 
2 eggs, separated Y% cup nut meats 


318 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Cream shortening, add sugar and continue creaming. Add 
separately, 1 egg and 2 yolks. Beat well. Add vanilla, then flour. 
Pour batter in greased 9” x 18” pan and cover with meringue (Meth- 
od: beat 2 egg whites stiff; add brown sugar slowly and beat until 
mixture forms heavy peaks; add nuts). Bake in 350° oven 80 or 
40 minutes. Cut in squares. Yield: 15 squares. 

Miss MatiLpA BELL 


My Mother’s Nut Cake 


114 sticks butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 
2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon nutmeg, grated 
6 eggs, beaten Flour, for nuts 

4Y cups flour 1 quart pecans, not chopped 


Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs, then sifted dry ingredients. 
Dredge pecans with flour and fold into mixture. Bake in greased 
tube pan 1 hour and 15 minutes in 325° oven. When done, turn 
pan upside down and cool before removing. This cake is not very 
sweet and keeps indefinitely. Delicious with tea or sherry. 

Mrs. CHARLES Prioteau (Anne Little) 


Slann’s Island “Legaré Sauce” 


1 (No. 2% can tomatoes 1 ounce white mustard seed 
1 quart onions, cut fine 1 ounce cloves 

1 clove garlic, cut fine 1 ounce allspice 

1 nutmeg, grated 2 pounds light brown sugar 
8 tablespoons salt 2 tablespoons curry powder 
1 ounce celery seed 2 quarts vinegar 


Put all ingredients into an agate vessel and boil on a slow fire 
until tomatoes are pulp. Pour through a strainer and bottle. De- 


licious with meat or fish. 
Mrs. Ernest W. Kine (Isabel Simmons) 


Monosodium glutamate added to any food, except sweets and 
egg dishes, improves the flavor. 


319 


MENUS 


Dis-yah de way de buckra like he bittle su’b-tuh-um. 


Charlestonians dine at two o'clock, 

An early English custom. 

(Suggestions that they dine at eight 
Apparently disgust ’em!) 

But call it dinner, supper, lunch,— 

The hour does not matter,— 

Sometimes the strain of planning meals 
Can cause the nerves to shatter! 

These menus, planned for eating, drinking, 
Will spare you hours of painful thinking] 


“TWO O’CLOCK” DINNER 
She-Crab Soup (p. 304) or Carolina Crab Soup (p. 34) 


Chicken with Brandy (p. 96) Rice (p. 129) 
Spinach Soufflé (p. 151) Best Beets (p. 142) 
Mate (p. 164) 
Plain Whole Artichoke Bickle (p. 275 
Wine Jelly (p. 204) Benne eee (p. 246) 
Shrim pe Cocktail with Sauce (p. 78) 
| .avington Plantation Wild Duck (p. 113) Wild Rice Casserole (p. 135) 


Spiced Grapes (p. 279) 
Boiled Red Cabbage (p. 144) or Beets with Orange Sauce § p. 143) 
Celery and Green Olives Rum Bumble (p. 200) 
Brown Soup (p. 39)\)) 0) staan Supreme pe 59) 


Rice Ring (p. 134) Green Peas ( 
Biscuits (small) (p. 158) suflabub (p. 191) 


Okra Soup (p. 42 or p. 305) 
Ida’s Broiled Chicken (p. Re) or Chicken Hemingway (p. 96) 
Rice (p. 129) and Gravy (p. cy Candied Sweet Potatoes (p. 149) 
Spinach in Cream (p. 153) 

Fig Ice Cream (p. 209) Lemon Cookies (p. 257) 

Shrimp Soup (p. 3 
Fillet of Veal (p. 90) Rice (p. 3) aa pera (p. 311) 
Beans with Almonds (p. 142) 
Fresh Cot cut off cob, with dice aie epper ) 


Magic Butter Rolls (p. 171) Chow-Chow Pickle (p. 283) 
Lemon Ice Cream (a it) Rum Cookies (p. 253) 
rab Cocktail with Sauce (p. 78) 
Baked Laake Steaks (p. 93) Rice Croquettes (p. 133) 
Succotash (p. 148) 
Rolls (p. 171) Apple Meringue (p. 197) 


320 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


Mrs. Alston Pringle’s Mock Terrapin Soup (p. 40) 
. Channel Bass (p. 73) 

Scalloped Irish Potatoes ane: Onions (p. 149) 
New Cut Plantation String Beans (p. 142) 
Cole Slaw with Cream Dressing (p. 183) 
Pineapple Fritters with Sauce (p. 207) 


Créme Vichyssoise (p. 46) Shrimp Croquettes (p. 55) 

Ring of Red Rice (p. 130 and 134) with Giceh Peas in center 
Middleburg Plantation Corn Pudding (p. 143) 

Chopped Artichoke Pickle (p. 275) 

Grandma’s French Biscuits Cspaatl) p. 159) 

Pineapple Sherbet (p. 216) (double receipt) in melon mold, surrounded by 

pitted black cherries, with fresh green seedless grapes at each end of platter. 


LUNCHEON OR SUPPER 


Mrs. C. C. Calhoun’s Chafing Dish Oysters (p. 67) 
Green Salad with Minute Egg Dressing (p. 181) 
Waffles (p. 172) Rum Pie (p. 228) 


Cream of Spinach Soup (p. 44) 
Hunter’s Chicken (p. 99) and Rice (p. 129) 
Mixed Green Salad with French Dressing (p. 182) 

Rolls (p. 313) Lemon Pudding (p. 191) 
Creamy Fish Chowder (p. 37) (served from tureen ) 
Grapefruit and Avocado Salad with Grapefruit Dressing (p. 181) 
Cheese Daises (p. 159) Pecan Pie (p. 225) 


Oysters and Sweetbreads in Patty Shells (p. 69) Spoon Bread (p. 314) 
Asparagus Mousseline (p. 178) 
Southern Spicy Gingerbread with Lemon Sauce (p. 205) 


Cypress Gardens’ Egg Plant and Cauliflower (p. 312) (first course) 


Veal Paté (p. 104) “Crowded House” Cucumber Salad (p. 173) 
Biscuits (p. 158) Chocolate Soufflé (p. 203) 
Chicken Croquettes (p. 100) Hominy Surprise (p. 128) 


Mixed Green Salad with Anchovy Dressing (p. 183) 
Chopped Artichoke Pickle (p. 275) 
Orange Ice and Vanilla Mousse (p. 215) Mocha Cakes (p. 232) 


Chicken Tetrazzini ( p. 98 ) 
Ring of Cucumber Jelly (p. 176); center filled with Purple Cabbage Slaw 
and Cream Salad Dressing (p. 183) 
Biscuits (p. 158) Mrs. Dill’s Bucket Dumpling (p. 206) 


Créme Vichyssoise with Curry (p. 46) 

Fiddler’s Green Stuffed Avocados (p. 173) Hot Rolls (p. 170) 
Peppermint-Stick Ice Cream (p. 211) Chocolate Sauce (p. 218) 
Iced Spinach Soup (p. 45) 

Meeting Street Crab Meat (p. 64) in individual baking dishes 
Hearts of Artichoke Salad with Bahamian Salad Dressing (p. 180) 
Sherry Tarts (p. 229) 


321 


CHARLESTON RECEIPTS 


BUFFET SUPPER OR LUNCHEON 


Es Oysters with Mushrooms (p. 69) and/or 
Baked Ham with Ham Paste (p. 110) 


Red Rice (p. 130) Green Tomato Chow- a (p. 283) 
Mixed Green Salad with Roquefort Dressing (p. 182) 
Hot Rolls (p. 313) Angel Food Charlotte fae rer (p. 192) 


Buffet Supper Shrimp (p. 57) and/or ee Mousse (p. 101) 
Asparagus Casserole (p. 
Tossed Green Salad (p. 174) with Aunt Em’s ae ad wie: (p. 183) 
Hot Rolls (p. 170) Hampton Polonaise (p. 90). 


Jellied Chicken Loaf (p. 102) an 
Deviled Crabs (p. 307) or Shaimp Salad fe 174) 
Picnic Pride Rice (p. 134) 
Whole Tomatoes filled with Chopped Celery, Green Pepper, pe (p. 180) 
old Asparagus on Lettuce, French Dressing (p. I 
Cheese Biscuits (p. 303) Lady Baltimore Cake (p. 330 or p. 318) 


Jellied Daube Glacé (p. ates 
Carolina Deviled Sea Food (p. 
Tomato Aspic Ring (p. 177) (double receipt) Pak Maye (p. 180) 
Curried Rice (p. 132) 


Grandma’s French Biscuits (p. 159) Huguenot Torte (p. 194) 

Popham Shrimp Pie (p. 51) Baked risa fp 89) 
Tossed Green Salad (p. 174) with French Dressing (p. 

Garlic French Bread (p. 314) Coffee Mousse te 215) 


Chicken Country Captain (p. 309) and/or Ham Mousse (p. 102) 
Asparagus and Egg Casserole (p. 141) Fruit Salad (p. 315) Rolls (p. 171) 
Angel Ice Box Cake (p. 194) or Baba au Rhum (p. 199) 


Sullivan’s Island Shrim map wee Rice ( 
Beef a la Mode (ation and cold) ook a1) 
Mixed Green Salad with French Dressing ( 2) 
Rolls (p. 170) Watermelon Balls with Ras a Be Ice (p. 218) 
Shrimp C ( Me Rice (p. 129) 
Green Tomato Pickle (p. 28 Corned Tongue (p. 85) 
Tossed Green Salad te re) with French Dressing (p. 182) 

Magic Butter Rolls (p. 1 Charlotte Russe (p. 193 


822 


INDEX 


APPENDIX 
Sigg Cooking Hints _______298 
Table of Equivalents 297 


Tables of Measures __..__——s—« 2.96 


BEVERAGES WITH SPIRITS 


Muery Bounce et 15 
BPMN SIVED 222 ht i ed 
meee Orange eB 
Cocktail: 
Charleston CUD 5 a LS 
Cool o’ the Evening sd 


Gin and She ee 1D 

Lazy Man’s Old Fashioned _____ 12 

Plantation Greeter _____....__._ 14 
Eggnog: 

Charleston _____ el eee 16. 


Cotton Hall Plantation ————«*d 


punplie Eigynog .._._ 2 a 16 
ES See eat SOUP OES 5 Fo 


Julep: 
ferme? Dwight) £2 sess eet 1G 
maint 4 Simons )) 2 ore IS 
Punch: 
mermrnnnone se OD 
Charleston de Dragoons... 8 


Cotillion C eRe ete D 
Frost ae Cn et ee ee At, 
Seeare Street. at 0 
Mrranto. Glubs: =. 22 see ee eee 8 


Bratt eG 
Preerents oe 888 ae Se 1) 
eT ee eee et ee ee 
amt cociia 2. wee ee L 
Pints + Special ) = Saher’ See eh 
mere Cup ee jon en alt 
Batty Bolo 2 Ser ee A 
ety. Plantation 2423. eee Le 
Win 
Re herry 
Elderberry Flower ______--___ 18 
one oy) ee oe 17. 
Bermvernong 2 os. ees 


BEVERAGES 
WITHOUT SPIRITS 


Blackberry Acid ___.________ 20 
assinay. | ea ee ee 20 
Piites Pancha ans 
Combination Punch ___._______ 19 
Mratt Panch) oo ea ees TD 
Fruit Punch with Sherbet 19 
Southern Spiced Tea ______--_-__- 18 
Strawberry Shrub _________ 20 


BREADS 
FRUIT sac oa ge ___160 
Batter: ({ Spoon oe 22103 
Biscuits: 
Beaten) Biscuits’ LOO 
Benne seed a se 1S 
Biscuits sree ee == 158 
Cheese Daisies _...- Cid‘ 
French Biscuits 18S 
ROnginOUl Mink ne ee 
Corn Breads: 
Corn aCe Ora hs pean meets sal {5 
Muffins. Se" ee ee 162 


SHCks <a ee eee ee OD 
Hominy Bread _——SS—s—S=~dCi 
Lo. =m 160 


Huckleberry «dS 
Plantation ee IGS 
Rice and Hominy ___________165 
INU bee eee ee, wee ee eee OL 


Pancakes; 
Buckwheatw eee en 1 OO 
Cormier ee ee ee eae 166 
Cornmeal! Gakesp = = 167 
Cornmeal Griddle Cakes _.___ 167 
Hush? Puppies. = 165 
Popovers: : 


Light Flour Puffs for Breakfast _.169 
Plantation Puff: ee LO. 


Sy be 


PODOVETS ee ee OS 

Paint eee eet 169 
Rolls: 

Mavict Butters eee ey 

Refrigerator Rolls _.._. __. 170 

Rolls ee ee ee 
Sally aLaiowsce- See te 164 
Short ningebready =e een 
Waffles: 

Crisp: Wattles = eee en Te 


Fggiess Wattles = Ss ee 
Wallet 8 fees eee 172 


Almond 
Angel Food Cake “(Chocolate ) 
Vils i Beeld Sey: Bev D3) 

See O38 


Charleston De 
Gheese te rec Le ee ‘mtd 

Chocolate Waldorf —.....- 239 
Chocolate with Mocha Frosting ___.234 
Coconulbiem 6) tina ae ee 


328 


Eggless-Butterless 
Eggless-Milkless-Butterless 
Fruit Cake: 
Black Vee 90 stepet Soe ea 
White (Chisolm) __.._________.236 
White: (Rivers <2. wee 236 
Ginger Cake (Sour Milk) — 238 
Dady "Baltimore oe: ee =e eee O 


Mocha st etre aie aoe s. oe eee 232 
Pound-Cake ee 4. ee 
SCripttire see oe OE 
Sponge Cake, Ofd Time _._-__-__ 232 
Sugarless, Yellow: 2c) eae 240 
Wedding Cake: 

Carolina Housewife 237 

Old “tine? = a eee PAY, 
Icings: 

Almond? Paste: =. 4 =). =e 241 


Caramel Frosting, Easy _.______ 
Chocolate: ees 
Fruit Cake, Uncooked ____ 241 


Fudge Frosting, Smooth ____.____. 243 

Never Fail (Seven Mie een § 2492, 

Orange. eae See 42 

White Icing for Fruit Cake 241 
CANAPES 


Anchovy "Pulfs j= eee eee 


Bacon and Cheese. :é«2 
Benne ‘Seed*t 2 ieee pat 
Benne Seed Cocktailers _... === sa: 
Celery Rings eee oT 
Cheese Balls OS 
Cheese Balls Brandied 25 
Cheese or Paté in Aspic _. 24 
Cheese, Cream Spread _........ 24 
Gheese * Roll 922 = 3 es eG 
Cheese Straws _____ Ee eeeoG 
Chicken and Almond Spread 28 
Chicken Liver Spread 


28 
Chipped Beef and Creamed Cheese .. 25 
Clam ° (2 Oe 29 
Cocktail” Sauce: = eee _ 30 
Crab (Meat) 22.4 40 fe 09 
Egg Balls. 22st eee ge ee 


Ham and Chutmey _... 30 
Ice Bor Cheese Wafers _..- 26 
Sardines... 92 Se ae 291 
Shviang "Mold or Paste 4.22% Bat ee 22, 
Shrimp and Curry Mold _.__ a pe} 
Shrimp . Paste #2 Oy 
Shrimp Remoulade _.... pH | 
Spiced Pickled Shrimp 23 
South Sea Spread _.. DAE 
Suggestions 3.293 252 2 ee eee ee yh 


CANDY 


Benne: 

Benne Brittle _.......__..-_= iB. 

Benne Candy, Soft _______.__________ 262 
Chocolate Caramels __..________270 
Chocolate Roll __ ae 270 
Coconut Bars ._. Sige 
Coconut Drops —___._ 
Cream Candy —._._ _ eg 


Crystallized Grapefruit sign G4 
Fondant —....._.. 
Fruit Candy _ ai eB 
Fudge: 
Divinity .... 269 
Peanut Butter ____ +, SI G6S 


Super (Chocolate) - Seer 


Vanilla ___._ 
Walnut ___._... 269 
Groundnut Cake —.. eee 263 
Khandova 264 
Martha Washington 270 
Mint Drops (Stoney) 267 


Mint Drops 


Nougat —__..._._._ 
Nuts: 
Glacé __.... 4) See 265 
Patties ______ 2 A eo 
Peach or Apricot ‘Leather __——«263 
Peanut Brittle _.._... =e ___.264 
Pop-Corn Balls. ____ ee 
Pralines, Pecan _.....-_ ee OTS 
Scotch Toffee __......_ = ee _265 
COOKIES 
Almond Cookies _.. oe GY) 


Anise Christmas Cookies _______259 

Benne: 
Cookies... 
Cookies, Thin 
Seed Wafers __......__ =e 


Brownies: 
Brown ‘Sugar |... eee 
Coconut. Eee __..249 
Goperte | eas 
(Venning) —... ee 248 
Butter Cookies _.-... 23a 
Butter Fingers _.______ eee 
Butterscotch Hoe ii ___256 


Chocolate Crispies een 55 
Christmas Coo es with Almonds __258 
Cookies” = == aa 
Date Dainties 

Date Kisses ........J= =) ee 
Date Squares 
Defense Cookies ___260 
Gingerbread Man or Ginger Cookies_251 


324 


Groundnut Cakes __- 
SemermeeBars. 22 ee ORT 
Ice Box Cookies ____.._—s—s— 5G 
meokes ow kt es OBO 
Kiss Cakes, Brown Sugar 250 
Lady Baltimore Cookies 

Lemon Cookies 
foisesboller =. oe 257 
Male Cookies _ 
Moldy Mice (Sand Tarts) 951 


DGEOOKIeS. 2. OAT 
Oatmeal Cookies ___ 2 a O56 


Pan Cake Cookies _......._-—=—— 
Peecermeuts . = OB 
Beme. Cookies ©. pds) 
Queen Anne Cookies 2... 254 
emneGookies 2 OBS 
STG ee eee eee 245 
Perareiiectie 62 os ee 952, 
Sugarless Chocolate Chips _._____ 261 
Sugarless Drop Cookies ___..__. 260 
Wafers, Rolled Sweet _......_.-_- 9A5 
MMeTitIte VV ateTS))22-= ents nad be 252 


Whiskey Cookies __......._= 23 


DESSERTS AND SAUCES 


Angel Ice Box Cake _______.____194 
mana aw. Rhum 2222-199 
packet Dumpling _____...__-_-__ 206 
Chocolate Pots de Créme —_. ___200 
Woeur a la Creme: 2) ee 
Custard, Baked, Never Fail 199 
Ginger Bread: 
Southern Spicy ——________-205 
ieereroa ls eet er oe ee a 4 
Hampton Polonaise —____________.190 
Jelly: 
Coffee with Macaroon Cream ___201 
Wine, (Pelzer) —..-___ 204 
anes Coirect 04 
Meringue: 
presen ee ee ce Ty ee 
Dessert with Lemon Filling ____196 
Molasses, in Casserole 05 
Orange, with Whipped Cream ___203 
Peach, Upside Down, Mixture —_206 
Pineapple Fritters and Sauce ______ 207 


Puddings 
Bran y ak ee aaa oats ae eee SEEN BY | 
ee sree 1 ee eee | O) 


Dat __189 
Eve's ‘Pudding “(Mikell ) | D2 1 RF 
Eves Pocding 22-3 186 
Reais See eee 101 
Plum, Christmas ~~ 187 
Plum, Plantation 


Sweet Potato 2.2 188 
Russe: 
Angel Food Charlotte Russe ___ 192, 
Caramel Charlotte _.._---=-=——— i193 
Charlotte ea = eee ae a 199 
Rum-bumblew2 ee eee 200 
Sauces: 
Hard pgs ee 2 ee EDS 
Mallow-Mint _.... = ik yf 
Mocha: Sauces... par is eae 200 
Orange and Lemon Sauce __.__. 208 
Pineapple Fritter 207 
Plum Pudding _________.._ 207 
Wine foe ee O08 
SNOW. beakse.- 5 ee eee S23197 
Soufflé: 
Chocolates .5. 2 es 203 
Macaroon.-= = eee 202 
Wine ge oe eee oa ee ain OD, 
Sponge, Mocha ___ Ces S908 
Strawberry Short Paked. sees) es 201 
Sweet. Potato Poness == a aes 189 
Syllabub, ‘Country 3 ase 191 
Syllabub, (Porcher) 222. 191 
Tortes: 

O00 6 ee re eee LOD 
ADDIG: fe Ie ee ee _196 
B be Walnut:2=< 2. 86 = _195 
FI Puente hoe hn en 194 
Macaroon, Filling =. 2 195 

EGG AND CHEESE 
Cheese: 
Croquettes 2 Se es 135 
PuOGing 22 ee et LOO 


Pull e oe ee ae Oe 

Sauce pees 2 SS eae we ee 1 OF 

Sutil Gentle ae ee NO, 
Eggs: 


With ASCROVY oon ee _139 
Basic Omelet ___- thy _.138 
Egg Pie, Plantation 139 
Egg Ranitlx ee a) 
Stuffed and Creamed _ S138 
Macaroni) Pie ee Pala, 
GAME 
Birds: *Potted* ee 2 2 Serie 
Doves, Potted ae eo St 2 eee __116 
Duck: 
Wilde RGasteda. = = ae oes 113 
Wild, Roasted (Walker) ..<._.114 
Wild. with Mushrooms __.._ 113 
Marsh Hens: 
(Barmwell) 2 = ee Ab ly/ 


Smothered #2 = Se eee 17, 


$25 


Possum Roast ID 
Partridg6 Pie ce 2 2 eee 
Quail: 
Deep’! Fried (422 ie eS 
In Milk and Celery ___.______116 
Quail and Oysters _...____.__.___114 
Roasted, = ED 
Rabbit: 
Hasenpteffer? 
Pig ont oe Ai ren OS, 
Squirrel, Broiled 4 et en ee OS 
Stuffings (See Meats) 
Turkey, Wild, Roast __.___ 111 
Venison: 
a la Blaise - en ee 
Back River Paté _...__--——S—<COSd DT. 
Balls? eee 
Cutlets 119 
Meatslioatwe = ene 119 
Potted =e 119 
Roast he. -o7 wee ___118 
Roast, “The Laurels” 118 
Savory Meat. 2c) so ee eee ee 
Steaks, Brotled. 2S Je ee 121 
HOMINY AND RICE 
Hominy: 
Awendaw . es 
Baked...) eee eee 
Boiled 2 126 
Fried 2. eee 127 
Grainy Se ee ee 
Pressure-Cooked _....__126 
Surprise 6. eee 
Rice: 
Baked _.-- eee tL Ky 
Browned. 2822-2) eee 
Croquettes "es 
Curried 2222 a eee 
Fried 22 Se eee. 132 
Hopping John _____—CC—C 31 
Okra Pilags2 ee 130 
Omelet _ 133 
Picnic Pride _ 134 
Réd 2.3.2 ea = eee 130 
Rice, Cheese and Olives __ 133 
Ring. 2h ee ct 134 
Southern ___ 129 
Steamed <a Ss 129 
Tomato Okra Pilau pene Bact wee ee 
Tomato Pilau ___ 130 
Wild Rice Casserole 135 
ICE CREAM AND ICES 
Ice Cream: 
Biscuit Tortoni __ __213 
Buttermilk _____ J Se ee TS 


Cherry Bisque ———————<210 


Macaroon _____. 13 
Macaroon-Apricot _______.__213 
Marshmallow _.....__-_——a4 
Peppermint-Stick _____._...-_=——s—Ss 1 
sineeye en Pl 
Pista ae NY! 
Vanilla _____ 
Mousse: 
Coffee ____________ eee 
Orange Ice and Vanilla ___._215 
Peach ___ pune eh, 


Mint 
Sauce: 

Caramel ______ aan 

Chocolate —______ 

Sherry —__=.. = ee 

Sugarless Fudge ______-_____219 

Tutti-Frutti a eee 
Sherbet: 

Fruit and Milk _.___.._=Ss(tsCi 

Pineapple _______ ee 

Pineapple-Milk _ 


5 ETT 
Twins Delectable ______217 


Ravene 
Watermelon Balls with 
Raspberry Ice _______.____-218 
Watermelon deLuxe 2a 7 
MEATS 
Beef: 
a la Mode _____ ee 
Corned Beef or Pork _________. 83 
Meat Loaf _______ eae 
Spaghetti with Beef __________ 82 
Strogonoff ___.__ ees 
Calf’s Head (Baked) ____ ae 
Chicken: 
Broiled _.______ __ ae 
Chicken Country Captain _______309 


Chicken with Brandy _____ 96 

Croquettes ae 
WUITy .._. . a 

Faber’s Pilan —. ee 


Fricassee, White 100 
Fried on 
Hemingway eeumeeear 
Hunter's Chicken _________-_—s«q9 
In Corn —22 Wee 


98 
Ring SS eee 
Smothered. 
Specialty —________ agg 
Tetrazzini = ees 


826 


Ham: 
Baked in Dough Blanket _______ 89 


Baked Slices _____ _ 88 

aT a ea 
Hobotee thas.) en a OF 
Jellied Meats: 

Chicken Mousse ___ = ————s—C—~SYS' DT 


Chicken Mousse with Cream ___101 
mamma ousse 92 bt) ire 


Jellied Chicken Loaf ____ 102 
Jellied Daube Glacé __.__————*108 
Pressed Chicken _..__ SOS 
Remribe 2 104 
Migney Stew 
Lamb: 
Baked Steaks _... 93 
Roast with Anchovies __ 92 
maver lerrapin 22+). 98 
Pork: 
Hog’s Head Cheese __...________-—-« 90 
TENSES pe Pc evi Re te SG 
Spare Ribs (Barbecued ) aatideen B-OO 
paereme BB 
Sweet and Sour____—=———SSSS—S—«<SS?7 
Sweetbreads, Creamed =a OO 
Tongue: 
RL ee ee 
Flanders _________ ee 


Weal. Fillet of 90 
Garnishes and Glazes: 


opie Rings. _____§_ 107 
eae Este a ee ee ee 0 
Honey Glaze _._ 109 
Jelly Glaze 109 
Orange Glaze _______._____109 
Stuffed Oranges ___.___________110 
Sauces: 

Barbecue te Pe ee eee O8 
nama ee ee eee ee eee LOD 

____108 
Dah’s Browning ____________104 
eee 107 
Pram Gravy yo OO 
MTSERTO eee ee 110 
Raisin for Ham ______ 109 
ree Pe ee ee 
Tomato and Chicken __________107 

Stuffings: 

Bread pee 105 
(Chesinut< eee 111 
Cornbread — 112 
Oranges 112 
Oyster-Mushroom __— 112 
Peanut — 106 
Potato 113 
Sausage - 105 
Turkey — 105 


PICKLES AND RELISHES 


Pickles: 
Artichoke, chopped _.________——275 
Artichoke, whole __....__-_-___—s——s 276 
Artichoke, whole plain _.._.____-_— 275 
Artichoke, whole, (Parker ) 

Bread and Butter - — ee78 
Cabbage, (Holmes) ________———277 


Cabbage, (Stoney ead 
Chutney, Pe ee Oe 
Chutney, (Mayberry) Sao 
Figs, Sweet Pickled _...__ 

Onions, pickled pedemeeeric, 7 
Palinetion ok ce oS __274 
Peaches se tee ee ee ORR 
Tomato, green __ CBD. 
Tomato, iced green __________—-284 
Tomato, sweet green _____ ss. 82. 


Watermelon, rind, crisp ___ Peed F | 
Watermelon, sweet 84 


os 
Bevel anaes} 
Sicamindad ‘Three Fruit __287 
Peak Chips 2 ee ee as 


___288 
Pumpkin Chips ______ ste oe se 37s 
Red Pepper Jam _...____________ 280 
Relish: 
Chow-Chow 
Chow-Chow Green Tomato ____ 283 
Moa a Eee er on | 
epper 
Spiced Grapes _______________ 279 
Tomatoes, Spiced Red __. 
Sauce: 
Chile 4 ee ee ee eee aL 
Cranberry, (Maybank) _______ 279 
Cranberry, uncooked _..___ __279 


Tomato Catsup fee BE ewe Af | 
PIES 

Anole Crmb o- eee 

Caramel ane ee ite, Ree sy f 

Chocolate Angel _.._ CG 


Chocolate Meringue _._________-293 
Coconut Cream £25) SS 299 
Huckleberry Ree een | 
Lemon Meringue _________ 222 
Lemon Cream Meringue _______ 227 
Mince. Meat eee ee eon 
Peach Meringue 

Pecan, (Hagood) —.___________ 995 
Pecan, (Hanckel),, > ee 808 
Pump pe ee ee ee 
TOT eo ee 


327 


Sweet; Potato 2.2. gs 5 908 
Pastry: 


New: Pie "Crust D9 

Plain”. ee eee UPA 

Torten’ Crust¢2 = ee eS 
Tarts: 

Bakewell ID 

Sherry 


Se ee een 
Transparent, 29 9 ees ee 908 


SALADS 


Asparagus (cz ee ee LS 
Avocado! 2) 0 ees 
Aspie: 

Cheese with Curry Dressing ____176 


Cream Cheese _..._ 175 
"lomato (22522 2 eee ee ibgeré 
Bing Cherry Mold _....._ 179. 


Caesar Salad (Charleston’s 
adaptation)" 2-6 0 ee ety 
Cole Slaw ___ See eee A 


Crab ‘ Meat = i eee _174 
Cucumber: 
Jellied - =... eee 7, 
Jelly — 2 eee eer 


with Sour Cream 1 Oe er aa 173 
Ginger Ale Fruit a 

Grapefruit: 2 eee 
Green, tossed 


Heavenly Hash _.._ _179 
Molded © 3 a ee ee 
Vegetable 2 2 eee _178 
DRESSINGS: 
Anchovy’ 22.3 2 26 
Aunt’ Ein’s 22222) 3) oe eee 183 


Bahamian’ so ee 80) 
Cream, 22 ee eee 83 


UITY eee ee OO 
French Dressing ee aaa 184 
French Dressing (Stoney) 182 
French Dressing (Webb) 182 
Grapefruit (2.2.0 3 ee 181 
Mayonnaise «2... See 
Minute: Egg. 2222222 ee 181 
Roquefort Gheese™ 2/24. aie 182 


Sauce a la Russe __.__ ss tt(‘(‘z 


Sour® Cream <2. Cea ee 182 
Victor Hugo * 2.23) 2 eee 
SEAFOODS AND SAUCES 
Carolina Deviled __.._. ._ 60 
Clams: 
Clams and Guinea Squash ___.___ 70 
Southside, 2-250 0 


Cooter Pie ____ = ey 


Crabs: 
Crab Meat Casserole 62 
Deviled (Dehon) 22a 61 
Deviled (McDowell) 61 
Deviled (Street) 2 a 22 BD, 


Mousse _..___ 25) Senn 4 
Soft Shell, Broiled __ 2 Gs 
nee Shell, Fried. _.. 33a — 65 

e: ee Jat Bee See OS 


With Curried Rice _. 4. Jed EOS 
Fish: 


Barbecued ____ 


ai SO EO 
Bass ( Channel) 


ace ee 
Fillet of Sole ____ ee 
Mousse ___._.- = TT 
Pine Bark Stew and Sauce ____ pA 
Pompano 4 la Gherardi __.-_____—_—s«—'74 
Pompano with Shrimp Sauce _._ 74 
Shad, Boneless, baked _.____-__—s 75 
Shad, Planked ... 2 Se 5 
Sheepshead or Blackfish _____.___. 76 
Souse a Te 
Lobster: 
Newburg, Calhoun _.......--sS7/1 
Newburg —._____ 
Oysters: 
ae Sweetbreads _______-—————S———s«*a3™>F 


aalam’s __.__ 
Broiled _.._____- 
Chafing’ Dish —_— = 0 eee 
orn Panera ee GY / 


Cunied (CF Se 
Fried MI SE 
Fritters =G 7) 
Low-Country with Mushrooms __ 69 
Scalloped oa 
with Macaroni __________——S—s«a668 
Ragout, Seafood ________._____. 60 


sta 
and Com Pie 2 
Buffet, Supper _ 


Casserole 
Corn, Old Receipt -.. Baie ye 
Creol _ eS 
Croquettes ee __ a 
Cutlets (or Lobster) —— 
For Breakfast. ________ eee 
Fried, pes a eS 
Fried, (Jehossee) _._______________. 56 
In Guinea Squash 54 
Paste, baked »..____ a 
Pickled 2s oe ee 
Pie, Charleston _......_._-_-»=_SSsé«<'OD 
Pie, Edisto —.....____. 


$28 


Pie, James Island _..__—=—=—ss———~Ssé~&@i'‘ I 


Beer Opnam po BOL 
ME Et oe ead Seca _. 55 
ee. Sl ee =. 00 
Stewed, Beaufort ____’ ee fe = 50 
BeeNP ea a == 58 
Stuffed in Bell Peppers — ss} 
MERIT) ar ce ee cy TTD _ 59 
Sauces: 
Bereta a1), P.éL-non 2 2 O7g 
Cocktail Oyster ark!) 
Spektal, Shrimp... ma {<} 
MMPS Sh | S088 sce ys 9 FOF _ 79 
Pinon sherry’ 79 
iS ee os _ 79 
Tartare hes cl ashe ns, BEN YS 


SHORT CUT RECEIPTS 


Biscuits, Brownies, etc.: 


penne Cookies 2... 8 a AT5) 
Benne Wafers _......__.___._____.290 
BETA UTIIOS We oe bc cet al 295 
Cheese Biscuits = ___290 
Cheese Straws __..___.__._ 889 
Cinnamon Wheels __.....__- __289 
Hors-D’oeuvre Biscuit __ 289 
Sia to ae eee 295 
Desserts: 
Chocolate Ice Cream _...._...____ 294 
Cranberry and Apple Tarts 293 
Kitty’s Coffee Dessert _._____ 294 
fecrnon sherbet ....-- = 2. 94 
Mince Meat or Marmalade ______ 293 
range Mousse *2 294 
Perange Sponge nc. ee 294 
Pineapple Ice Cream ____---.. 294 
ie berry Angel tee 2 295 
Seertaeseity eee eae eee eg. 294 
Tipsy Parson _.... #225204 


Upside Up Cake _. 
Miscellaneous Specials: 


es e205 


A fae cleaned A ETS 293 
Blushing Bunny —__________293 
Chicken a la King 293 
Ma OUT eee 292 
Luncheon Dish __-_______--_-___---292 
Shee agit acs a aS 292, 
Onions, French Fried _..._._______ 292 
Rice and Chicken Casserole 292 
ice-+ ppanish jeer =e 293 


Spoon Bread ccs pe a 
Punch: 


are la ee A es 289 

Teen Age aces, Ubon, eee 
Seafoods: 

Crab or Shrimp gta, eet es 291 

Crabs, Deviled#22= > Js S291 


Fish Casserole _....__-—===s— 29 
Lobster Newburg, Easy 291 
Oysters, Broiled _... CG 
hrimp and Crab Meat Creole ___291 
Tuna Surprise 22 = 291 
Soups: 
Borsch ee ee 290 
Crab’ (Coleman) (2-4 290 
Crab (Dehon)) —..... — ___.290 
Onion seen Se ee ek 290 
OYStER co el ee ee 290 
SOUPS 
Black Bean Bish EOP oe AS 
TOW) 62 ee ee ee 39 
Galfisw Head 6, ae ee _ 40 
Cheese nce careerte dens a _ 44 
Chicken «20a ee eee 4] 
Clam: Bisque see SR 36 
Glam: Chowder san 2 36 
Cooter __ phe dl abding |) 


Crab, Carolina or She-Crab _____ 34 
Cucumber, Cold gets en ie ee 
Fish Chowder, Creamy nan eee eon 
Gumbo, ( Gamb LS) en oe oe ee . 38 
Gumbo, Seatcod pa eer 37, 
Gumbo, (Waring) _. Bete ok OS 


Mushroom, Cream of _ 43 
Okra 2k he Be, Bik oe ER 242 
Onion -_ 


Oyster Bisque es 
Oyster Stew __.. oe AE 
Oyster Stew with Benne Ss 


Pease Split eye 
Seasoning for Soup 44 
She-Crab (ett ee ee 33 
Spinach, Iced - ee fe ee 
Spinach, Crean of _. 44 


SHrirn tips eee eee ees ___ 34 
Shimc! Chilled = at aes 0 te a7 
Terrapin (Mock) Py dans et ana 


TL omato-Gheese rs ee 47 
Tradd Street Cucumber Soup — 45 
Tarkey Stew. _ 42 
Vichyssoise, Créme -________ _ 46 
Wichyssoise, \Curry. += ese _ 46 


ite See oe ie ee eee A) 


VEGETABLES. AND SAUCES 


Artichokes, Creamed —___________141 
Asparagus: 
Ton Se 

Casserole ___- ee 

Egg Casserole 222. 
Beans: 

String with Almonds _______142 

New Cut Plantation String — 142 


Cabbage: 

au) Gratin, 222 eee eee 

Hot Slaw eee 

Leaves Stuffed ___._..._—>>s—SsCidDS 

Red; Bolled eee 144 
Carrot Ring Mold —______ 155 
Chainey Briar ________________140 
Corn: 

Pritters 222s eee 144 

Pie 2 ere th ee ee 

Padding 143 
Ciagabers “Scalloped __ 147 
Eggplant: 

au Gratin 22 ee 147 

Guinea, Baked __ 146 

Stiffedg-= = 146 
Gumbo: 

Charlestonz=—— = 148 

Gunbor 2 ae ee 48 
Mushroom, Casserole ___________.153 
Onions, French Fried _____ 150 
Peas, Crsen toe ee 155 


INDEX TO SUPPLEMENT 


BEVERAGES 
Champagne Punch for the Wedding _ 302 


Francis Marion Reception Punch __302 
Kinloch Plantation Special _________301 
Potent Potion Cocktail _________. 301 
Soirée ‘Panch 2222 ee e008 
Tradd Alley Punch ___._._________301 
BREADS 
Bread eee ee Oe ele 
Coffee: Cake! 2 ls 
(carte Bread oe 4 
Loati Bread ee le 
Pollipy wee eee ee eee ea te 
Ralls Ween ce eee eee ES 
“Melmore” Sally Lunn _____.______314 
Spoon Corn Bread __.__-__SSSSsS TAA 
Waffles (Buttermilk) 315 
CAKES 
Lady Baltimore __..____-___—S—S'18 
Nut’ Cake = 2) 2.2 ee A199 
Yammy. Cake 72 ees 
CANAPES 
Caraway Sticks __..__ = =—s——st(ststs(CstéCS/O 
Cocktail Biscults22 ee OOS 
Mock Paté de Foies Gras _____303 
Shrimp Canapé au Rhum _____304 
DESSERTS 
Berry Dumpling 317 
Mud Hens 7) oh ge eee 17 
Plum Pudding (without suet) _____316 
Rum Regale —..___._-.__.___316 


Potatoes: 
Apples wenn i eee 
Trish and Onions | Scalloped _____149 
“Likker Pudding” __._._____150 
(Sweet) Candied ___ 149 
Spinach: 
au Gratin 152 
Casserole _____ 152 
In Cream _ 153 
ee 151 
Soutflé; 32 Sas 151 
Squash, Baked __ 147 
Succotash 148 
Tanyah or Elephant’s Ear 155 
Tomatoes: 
Fried ).5 154 
Glazed 154 
Whole Broiled __ 154 
Sauces: 
Hollandaise ______ 156 
Meatless Spaghetti ______..____.156 
Mushroom. ___._ SS 
Orange Sauce for Beets __ 143 
MEATS 
Carolina Barbecued Chicken ____.309 
Chicken Country Captain __________309 
Chicken Soufflé _- = Selo 
Sauces: 
Hot Apple Sauce with Rum oe 
Magic with Gravies ___.__________.3 
MENUS___———si320 
PICKLES AND RELISHES 
“Legaré Sauce” ___.___s— 319 
Fruit Salad - 315 
SEAFOODS AND SAUCES” 
Deviled Crabs Se 307 
Shrimp Pie ( ) 
Sullivan's o (Eyre) Shrimp —.-__  30T 


“Maum Nancy’s” Scalloped Oysters _308 


Sauces: 


Cream Sauce for Shrimp, etc. ___308 
SOUPS 


Grouper Cubillon ____._____ 306 
Okra __.._ 
Oyster 2s See ees 
ee Oyster Stew _____________.304 
She- 304 
Tomato Emincé_ 
VEGETABLES 
Corn Soufflé ___ 312 
Eggplant and Cauliflower _ 312 
Potatoes au Gratin a TS 


3380 


+Fids i? 


ce cerry cms were cr ce cs cre ce ms ws ws ee ee ee a ee ee es ee ee ee es 


Charleston Rervipts 


P. O. Box 177 
Charleston, S. C. 


a copies of your book at $2.95 per copy, postpaid. Enclosed 
is my check or money order for $. 
neers ke, eh ee Bee ee 


NI eC oy Oe ee ee ee 


Charleston Receipts 


P. O. Box 177 
Charleston, S. C. 


eetme copies of your book at $2.95 per copy, postpaid. Enclosed 
is my check or money order for $....--... 
de a RR a ese Sn eli lh oR tis EA oe ec aoe nee, 


cael i SRT Oe eal SrtA ee A as A) i oS ee ene Aan nr er 


Charleston Rereipts 


P. O. Box 177 
Charleston, S. C. 


St copies of your book at $2.95 per copy, postpaid. Enclosed 


is my check or money order for $________. 


italy pease Me Saami aa adeg v0 OU onaeeete ok AS Owen 


2 (ota ee ae es ees 


a ee te _ 


1 Ay icy ee pata Le ao ry 
My ~~ 7 “a ma CD | 7s =. ‘ hd 
‘ f 4 
* . 1 4% ‘ : ; ee a i a Ff 
< : Ve La 


. wi . fe_~ S- ae Be te 
; Ps b ‘ 
> * * « 
‘ 7 " -™/ *v \ 
B % 
- a e- 
| 2 * 7 tt 
~ = ad 1 Oe ~ 
# 
2 + : « 
Sere Myr) A try pod 
ee . ¥ 
i 
7 P 
r Zé 
wee a bn on " “ 
Pease rene 5 , conte a ee - 5 2 = 
wt Di aaron es pear nces o = - 
Sin EA 
seal one Samrs wien, GAS Cplies ire Casale” ier wiles wae sin, ee deem he vd = 
cided ao ae sae 
: — — 
3 i ‘ ‘ 


% e 
a 
t 
5 
7 . 4 
oa 3p? 
te a 
4 —_ _ ~e 
op ~ 
A a ene ia 
+ : 


Ly 
é 
: - c 
‘ ' : 
\ A — 
oN 
- “”’ 
: : é mW een oS 
‘ a’ 
* a? 
/ : , al 
Us 
: 
iy . 
—_ ’ ~ 
. v2 % 
: bene le - } 
‘< ‘ 
: - 4 
my pe 
P J = re 
A ' 


ro09g0zse0d 


WAU 


seuesgr Aysienlun) on 


tl 


ill 


