'^.^'i' 


*s»'>^ 


K.  ^.  KiN.d^ve;\^%  &t  to.^ 


jManu-factiarers  ot 


Office  ^  School  Furniture, 

195  and  197  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


A\\  VTork  taWj  Guaranteed  of  Best  Klln-Drieil  Inmber. 

Samples  of  work  §een  in  the  new  Custom  Hoase  and  Cook  Co.  Court  House  furnished  by  this  Arm. 


Wo.  43.    IiOTV  Curtain. 


ETo.  498.    Library  Table. 


Polygon,    Closed. 


Bank  |  Office  Fittings 


in  elegant  styles,  and  special  designs, 
in  all  hinds  of  Hardwoods. 


Bank  Counters,  Wood  Mantels,  Library  Fittings,  Ladles'  Desks,  Etc. 


Opera    Chairs. 

See  tlieae  chairs  in  Central 
Music  Hall^  New  Academy  of 
Music^  Grand  Opera  House, 
Haverly's,  and  elseixihere  They 
have  Hat-rack,  Foot-rest,  Tilt 
ing-back.  Umbrella  and  Cane- 
rest. 

Settees  and  Assembly  Chairs 
for  Hall  and  Church  Seating 


School  Furniture  and  Apparatus,  such  as  Blackboards  (all  kinds) 
Globes,  by  far  the  largest  variety  in  this  country. 


stationary  Top, 

Andrews' 

Triumpli  School  Desk, 

Highest  Centennial  and 
Paris  Awards. 


Folding  Top. 


This  Deak,  irith 

Folding  Lid  and  Seat, 

Is  the  most  important  improve^ 
raent  of  the  age  in  School 
Desks. 


Andrews'  Lunar  Tellurian  Globe  is  the  most  remarkable  and  perfect  invention 
ever  produced,  for  showing  in  addition  to  Geography,  the  changes  of  Season  and 
Causes,  Twilight,  Phases  of  the  Moon,  Eclipses,  Tides,  etc.  Jt  shows  the  revolution 
of  Earth  about  the  Sun  ;  also,  that  of  Moon  around  Earth. 


ANDREWS'  PARLOR  FOLDING  BEDS. 


Occupy  one-fourth  the  space 
of  the  clumsy  common  beds, 
hence  save  room-rent  !  All 
the  bedding,  pillows  and 
mattress  fold  out  of  sight 
instantly.  The  improved 
woven  wire  mattress  goes 
with  each  bed,  ensuring 
comfort. 

Made  in  form  of  Book- 
cases, Dressing-cases,  Secre- 
taries, etc.  Parties  interested 
are  invited  to  call  and  see 
these  beds  at  our  warerooms. 


Price,  from  $25  Upward. 


Biu-r  P»at.    M:a,dle  in  SS  Styles. 


Secretary  Bed  Open. 


Secretary  Bed  Closed  and  Writing  Leaf  Open. 

These  beds  have  tli£  most  perfect  ventila- 
tion of  any  bed   ever  made  ;  see  cut  show- 
ing   the    bed    constantly 
open    to    the    air    when 
folded.        They    are    on 
casters    and     easily    roll 
from  one  room  to  another. 
The   main    points  of  ex- 
cellence in  these  beds  no 
other  beds  have,  nor  can 
have. 
When  moving,  or  in  case  of  fire, 
bed  and  bedding  can  be  instantly 
rolled  out  of  the  room. 


THE    BEDS    ARE 
Liglit  : 

X^leg'a.iit  I 

Portable  I 

Coiii±t>rta.tole  I 


After  six  years' trial  the  demand 
is  unprecedented.  See  published 
commendations  from  many  first- 
i  class  families  in  this  city  and 
elsev/here. 

KearView  of  Folding  Bed  No.  9.  Call  aild  SfiB  TlieHl. 

Mmfd  only  by  J^.,  H.  AndPCWS  &  Co., 

195  <&  197  Wabash  Ave.,  CHICAGO. 


THE 


CHICAGO'S  BEST  DAILY. 


All  tli8  Seis  for  TWO  CENTS. 
FIFTY  CENTS  psrffloiitliliyMaa. 


THE 


EMID, 


Eight  Pages.     Five  Cents. 
By  Mail,  $2.00  per  Year. 

Jessup  Whitehead,  the  author  of  this  book,  is  a 
regular  contributor  to  this  Edition  of  the  Herald. 


CHICAGO 


An  Eight  Page  Newspaper  for  $1. 


Address     THE  CHICAGO  HERALD, 

120  and  122  Fifth-av.,  Chicago,  III. 
JAMES  W.  SCOTT,  Publisher. 


American  Pastry  Cook,  $2.00. 

3S\X&W^mmtPi  Hotel  Meat  Cocking,  $150. 

(-^UK  ^ti.lUUll»  Herald  Cooking  School,  a  First  Glass 

''©WCtt    aiX^    ilange''  PamilyCook  Book,  $1.50. 

©0011  ^00feB.  Address  Daily  Herald  or  National 

Hotel   Eepobtee,  Chicago,  or,  order 
By  Jesstjp  'WhitehBAD,  through  any  bookseller. 

These  are  called  the  '  'Oven  and  Range"  cook  books,  from  the  fact  that  the 
recipes  have  been  during  a  period  of  several  years  contributed  in  weekly  installments 
to  a  copyrighted  column  of  the  Caily  National  Hotel  Reporter,  headed  "Oven  and 
Range  Depaetment." 

This  method  continued  for  a  long  time,  while  it  made  it  very  necessary  for  the 
author  to  test  and  prove  everything  before  committing  it  to  print,  has  also  made  it 
generally  known  that  the  "Oven  and  Range"  recipes  are  absolutely  perfect,  and  the 
Hebald  Cooking  School  being  composed  of  the  same  recipes  reduced  to  small 
quantities  to  suit  the  requirements  of  famUies,  carries  the  same  guarantee  of  excell- 
ence by  bearing  the  same  stamp — the  book  is  commended  to  your  favor  by  the  repu- 
tation already  earned  by  its  predecessors. 


The  only  comprehensible  and  practical  cook  books  extant. 

— New  York  Hotel  Mail. 


"  The  best  receipts  for  making  all  sorts  of  nice  dishes  ever  contributed 
to  the  American  press." — Boston  Saturday  Evening  Gazette. 


THE 


CHICAGO  HERALD 


■^COOKING!  SCHOOLS' 


_&   PRDFESSIQNAL    CDDK'S    HaDK 
FDR  HDUSEHDLn  USE, 


CONSISTING   OF 


A  Sarlas  nf  Manus  for  Every  nay  IVEeals  and  for  Private  Entartaln- 
mants,  -w/itli  Minute  Instructions  for  making 
.A  Every  iirticle  Named, 


OEIGINALLY    PUBLISHED    IN    THE    CHICAGO   DAILY   HERALD. 


JESSUP  WHITEHEAD, 

Author  of  the  'Ouen  and  Range,"  Hotel  Cook  Books  and  "Cooking  for  Profit' 


CHICiiG-D 

iBBa, 


'    V  CFCO, 

jii^'i  9£>  1883  ,  , 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1S82,  by  Jessup  Whitehead,  in  the 
Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington. 


ALL  RIGHTS  RESERVED. 


^ 


PUBLISHED  BT  THE  AUTHOK 

At  the  Office  of  the  Daily  National  Hotel  Beporter, 
180  &  182  Washln^on  Street, 

,  CHICAGO,  LLLS. 


Eleotkottped  BT  Blomgken  Bkob.  &  Co.  Pbinted  and  Bound  Br  John  Anderson  &  Co. 

162  and  164  Clark  Street,  87  and  89  TrankUn  Street, 

Chicago.  Chicago. 


-^DEniCATIDNi^-. 


^^F  THE  matters  herein  contained  prove  useful  in  book  form  as  we 
'^  are  assured  they  have  already  heenl  found  in  their  serial  puhli- 
cation,  the  credit  is  due  to  Mr.  Jahes  W.  Scott,  publisher  of  the 
Chicago  Daily  Herald,  who  first  admitted  me  to  print  before'  the 
Herald's  day,  and  has  been  constant  with  generous  aid  and  encour- 
agement for  a  task  of  several  j^ears'  continuance. 

THE    AUTHOR. 


•»*l>REFflGE'N- 


MLL  THE  BOOKS  of  this  des(tription  that  have  oeen  worthy  of  consid- 
eration seem  to  have  had  a  leading  motive  for  their  composition, 
either  to  introduce  foreign  modes,  to  teach  new  schools  of  cookery 
or  new  extremes  of  ornamentation,  to  teach  manners,  or  to  put  in  practice 
the  theories  of  great  chemists  and  new  idea  doctors-^Leibig,  Graham, 
the  YSgetarians,  and  others.  If  a  motive  can  be  found  for  the  work  in 
hand,  it  is  to  make  good  cooks;  such  as  are  always  in  demand  at  good 
wages.  It  was  commenced  in  a  persistent  endeavor  of  the  writer,  to 
break  in  imtrained  assistants  to  do  cooking  as  it  should  be  done,  and  the 
utmost  plainness  of  language  and  exactness  of  quantities  that  were  neces- 
sary in  such  cases  have  been  preserved  as  the  main  requisites  to  the 
usefulness  of  the  book.  Already,  before  the  appearance  of  the  Goohing 
School  in  book  form,  a  sort  of  wondering  surprise  had  been  expressed 
that  fine  cooking  could  be  such  a  plain  and  easy  matter,  as  if  there  was 
an  expectation  that  the  mysterious  part  would  begin  after  awhile;  but 
doubtless  the  day  is  past  for  the  most  necessary'  art  of  cookery  to  be 
hidden  and  made  unintelligible  by  the  use  of  unknown  words  and  phrases. 
At  least,  when  the  writer  wanted  assistants  to  do  something  in  a  certain 
way,  he  used  the  kind  of  language  to  make  them  understand.  Perhaps 
that  is  why  this  is  called  a  cooking  school. 

In  regard  to  the  reliability  of  the  recipes,  it  would  be  expressing 
but  little  to  say  they  have  all  been  tried,  for  they  have  been  matters  of 
daily  practice  for  years,  and  BJOSt  of  them  ha^ve  been  changed  and  im- 


proved  until  it  is  believed  the  highest  pitch  of  excellence  has  been 
reached  and  may  always  be  by  those  who  carefully  follow  the  directions. 
There  is  much  more  in  the  book  than  at  first  may  appear,  for  nothing  is 
repeated  and  almost  every  dish — every  meat  dish  and  soup  at  any  rate 
is  a  model  for  a  number  of  other  articles  to  be  prepared  in  the  same 
way,  for  example  :  there  is  one  real  fricassee  thickened  with  eggs,  that 
of  frogs ;  one  stew  with  wine,  that  of  terrapin ;  one  bird  pie  with  brown 
gravy,  one  with  common  stew  gravy;  one  example  of  a  blanquette  or 
white  dish,  the  supreme  of  fowl,  and  so  it  will  be  found  all  through. 
There  has  been  a  special  avoidance  of  the  terrible  "or"  of  most  cook 
books,  which  invariably  leads  off  to  different  persons'  ways  of  doing  the 
same  thing  and  to  the  inquirer  who  docs  know  something  when  she  has 
read  the  first  recipe,  ending  by  knowing  nothing  after  perusing  them 
all.  Where  there  are  more  ways  than  one,  one  of  them  must  be  the 
best,  and  the  author  of  a  cook  book  should  be  able  to  say  which  it  is. 
As  to  the  menus,  the  writer  has  never  during  an  extended  experi  • 
ence  found  it  practicable  or  desirable  to  follow  a  pattern  bill-of-fare  in 
every  particular,  there  are  too  many  reasons  for  changing  the  intentions ; 
either  there  is  something  in  the  house  that  must  be  used,  or  the  dealer 
who  supplies  the  house  has  not  the  particular  article  on  hand  or  some- 
thing else  is  in  the  way,  so  that,  at  best,  a  pattern  menu  can  only  serve 
as  a  suggestion  of  dishes  to  choose  from.  As  nothing  is  repeated  in  the 
lists  of  available  dishes  here  presented,  the  number  of  changes  and 
substitutions  that  can  be  made  will  be  found  very  considerable. 


THE  HERALD  COOKING  SCHOOL. 


This  hungry  man's  delight  which  we  have  be- 
fore US  is  the  New  England  Boiled  Dinner.  H  is 
much  more  pleasant  to  treat  of  a  thing  as  the 
very  article  than  to  iiave  it  appear  vaguely  as  one 
of  the  indefinite  number  and  variety  of  boiled 
dinners.  It  gives  one  a  sense  of  possession. 
Doubtless  there  were  in  the  long  ago  other 
boiled  dinners,  but  they  lacked  the  staying 
quality,  and  were  incomplete  in  some  important 
particulars;  this  has  come  down  the  stream  from 
the  grauite  hills  liice  a  rock  in  a  river,  jostled  and 
chipped  and  woru  smooth  and  rounded  up  into 
an  entity  with  a  name  just  like  a  boulder.  It 
would  be  interesting  to  inquire  how  comes  it 
just  this,  neither  more  nor  less,  a  rounded  up 
dishful,  symmetrical  in  its  proportions,  passing 
current  in  the  market  of  meals  over  the  city 
counters  as  a  pumpkin  or  melon  or  cabbage  head 
in  the  vegetable  ma;'ket,  although  made  up  of 
parts.  Suppose  it  to  have  originated  where  the 
soil  was  thin,  where  the  potatoes  were  small  and 
few  in  a  hill,  and  had  to  battle  with  the  stones  to 
grow  at  all,  and  the  parsnips  and  carrots  found 
no  place  to  push  their  long  roots  down  and 
so  gave  it  up  and  stopped  short :  where  the  vege- 
tables were  habitually  small  and  could  be  crowd- 
ed many  in  a  dish ;  where  the  pork  had  always 
two  streaks  of  lean  to  one  of  fat,  and  the  beef 
only  appeared  when  a  neighbor  killed  and  lent  a 
quarter  till  the  other  neighbor  should  kill  and 
pay  it  back,  what  preservative  principle  has 
enabled  the  New  England  Boiled  Dinner  to  keep 
itself  together  through  all  the  changes  encoun- 
tered while  spreading  over  this  great  country? 
Why  did  it  not  lose  one  thing  here,  and 
another  there  and  get  mixed  up  and  obliterated? 
How  did  it  get  over  the  difficulties  in  the  rich 
valleys  of  the  West  when  it  found  the  vegetables 
growing  to  enormous  sizes  and  the  corn-fed  beef 
and  pork  all  fat?  How  often  must  there  have 
been  spoonfuls  of  succotash  or  of  beans,  or  a  sec- 
tion of  squash  or  pumpkin,  or  peas  or  corn  sur- 
reptitiously crowded  into  the  dish?  Why  did 
they  not  remain?  How  did  the  New  England 
Boiied  Dinner  get  rid  of  them  and  come  out 
clean  as  we  see  it  to-day?  And  having  passed 
through  so  much,  how  much  more  could  it 
endure  and  come  out  intact?  In  going  South 
how  much  of  an  addition  of  corn,  peas,  butter 
beans,  rice,  and  sweet  potatoes  can  it  bear  and 
still  be  itself?    In  going  down  the  Pacific,  at 


what  degree  of  mixture  with  water  and  Chili 
pepper  will  it  cease  to  be  itself  aud  become  Mb.x.- 
ican  stew  ?  "Take  away  my  first,  take  away  my 
second,  take  away  my  all,  and  I  am  still  the 
same,"  says  the  riddle,  but  can  the  New  England 
Boiled  Dinner  say  the  same  ? 

Let  us  take  it  apart  and  see  what  it  is  composed 
of.  How  many  of  its  parts,  if  any,  could  be  lopped 
off  before  it  would  cease  to  be? 


MENU    NO.   I— DINNER. 


1— New  England  Boiled  Oinnei' 

Consists  of: 

2  portions  of  corned  beef. 

1  portion  of  salt  pork 

1  portion  of  cabbage 

1  potato. 

1  parsnip. 

1  carrot. 

1  turnip. 

1  onion. 

1  beet. 

For  five  persons  the  average  required  will  be 
two  pounds  of  corned  beef  (raw  weight)  and  one 
half-pound  of  pork.  Wash  the  beef  in  plenty  of 
cold  water  and  put  it  on  in  cold  water  to  cook. 
Shave  off  whatever  of  the  outside  of  the  pork 
you  would  not  like  in  soup,  and  boil  the  pork 
with  the  beef,  but  for  a  much  shorter  time. 

Cut  the  vegetables  in  pieces  and  cook  each 
kind  separately  if  practicable;  the  beets  at  any 
rate  must  be  kept  apart,  and  the  cabbage  should 
be  drained  of  the  first  water  and  finished  boiling 
in  a  second  or  with  the  meat.  Pare  the  potatoes 
before  cooking,  steam  them  and  serve  them 
whole. 

When  all  are  done  place  all  the  vegetables  in 
sections  to  themselves  on  a  large  platter,  slice 
the  beef  and  pork  and  lay  on  the  top  and  send  to 
table  hot. 


To  cook'  such  a  dish  as  that  properly  is  mora 
of  a  triumph  of  common  sense  than  of  skill.  Had 
the  New  England  Boiled  Dinner  been  left  to 
depend  for  its  preservation  upon  us,  the  very 
fine  cooks,  it  would  have  perished  and  been  for- 
gotten long  ago,  for  through  the  division  of  labor 
in  large  houses  it  often  occurs  that  the  cook  who 
makes  the  compounds  knows  nothing  about  the 
plain  vegetables.      So  the  boiled  dinner  that  has 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


survived  so  much  would  have  come  up  with  the 
oorued  beef  half  done  and  tough  enough  to 
spring  off  the  dish — for  the  corned  pieces  nine 
times  out  of  ten  are  such  as  would  not  do  to 
roast  or  broil— and  the  pork  would  be  too  soft  to 
slice.  The  potatoes  tliat  will  steam  in  thirty 
minutes  would  be  spoiled  while  waiting  for  the 
carrots,  which  take  two  hours,  or  the  parsnips 
and  onions,  which  require  one  hour  and  a  half, 
or  the  turnips,  one  hour,  or  the  cabbage,  which 
one  day  may  cook  soft  in  twenty  minutes  and  an- 
other day  take  an  hour  or  more — owing  to  the  kind 
and  the  season  of  the  year.  The  corned  beef 
generally  requires  three  hours  boiling  to  make 
it  good,  depending,  however,  upon  the  quaUty 
and  size  of  the  beef. 


It  willbe  seen  from  the  above  examples  that  to 
cook  by  boiling  a  good  deal  of  head  work  is  nec- 
essary, if  not  much  skill.  It  is  not  a  sort  of 
knowledge  that  will  come  of  itself,  as  a  knowl- 
edge of  broiling  might.  Somebody  has  observed 
that  Homer  in  all  his  writmgs  never  once  men- 
tions boiling  as  a  mode  of  cooking,  although  he 
describes  a  number  of  feasts  and  in  one  place 
has  Achilles  doing  the  broihng  for  a  party  of 
Kings,  his  guests.  So  it  is  inferred  that  boiled 
dinners  were  at  that  time  unknown.  People 
were  not  wise  enous;h. 


The  most  difficult  vegetable  we  have  to  over- 
come by  boiling  is  the  beet,  and  because  it  takes 
a  long  time  its  luck  is,  generally,  to  be  left  un- 
covered and  neaxiy  boiled  dry,  open  to  the  ai  r 
with  neither  steam  nor  water,  and  somebody  goes 
about  fuming  because  there  is  no  end  to  the 
boiling.  The  time  can  be  reduced  one-half  by 
covering  with  a  tight  lid.  A  subscriber  writes  to 
an  editor  asking  if  it  be  true  that  certain  articles 
take  longer  to  boil,  or  cannot  be  boiled  at  all,  at 
great  elevations,  and  is  answered  in  the  affirma- 
tive, and  instances  quoted  from  the  Baron  Von 
Humboldt,  who  could  not  cook  potatoes  on  the  top 
of  a  certain  mountain  range.  But  it  should  be  ob- 
served the  experiments  only  referred  to  the  low 
boiling  point  of  water  in  open  vessels,  and  took 
no  account  of  confined  and  superheated  steam. 
In  point  of  fact,  the  people  who  live  in  very  ele- 
vated localities  find  very  little  difference  in  the 
time  required  for  cooking  any  article  over  lower 
elevations,  provided  they  keep  the  lid  on  the  ket- 
tle. 

The  liquor  in  which  corned  beef  and 
salt  pork  has  been  boiled  may  not  be 
very  commendable  as  stock  to  make  soup  out  of, 
yet  it  may  be  so  available  in  some  oases  if  not 
too  salt.  The  meat  loses  from  a  fourth  to  a  third 
of  its  weight  in  boiling,  and  a  portion  of  the  loss 
is  prevented  when  the  liquor  can  be  put  to  use. 


If  not  for  that  purpose,  let  it  become  cold  for  the 
fat  to  be  taken  off  for  use  in  frying. 


2.— Apple   Duinplings   Cooked  in   Sauce. 

First  make  the  short  paste  with  one  pound  of 
flour — a  heaping  quart  after  sifting — four  ounces 
of  shortening,  a  rounded-up  cupful  of  minced 
suet,  or  a  level  cup  of  cold  butter  or  lard,  one 
cupful  of  water,  salt.  Keep  out  a  handful  of 
flour  to  dust  with.  Rub  the  lard  into  the  flour 
dry  till  thoroughly  mixed.  Put  in  the  salt  and 
all  the  water ;  work  it  up  to  a  smooth  caste ;  roll 
it  out  once  on  the  table  like  pie  paste;  fold  it  in 
three  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  The  water  should 
always  be  poured  into  a  hollow  in  the  middle  of 
the  flour  when  making  any  kind  of  paste,  and  the 
flour  drawn  in  gradually  while  stirring,  other- 
wise the  paste  may  be  rough  and  lumpy,  and 
much  working  to  correct  the  fault  will  make  it 
hard. 

The  above  is  the  kind  and  quality  of  paste 
used  in  most  of  the  bakeries  for  pies;  it  is  the 
universally  useful  sort.  DumpUngs  made  of  it 
do  not  break  when  boiled  in  water.  But  while 
the  top  of  the  range  is  occupied  with  the  boiled 
dinner  the  empty  oven  will  do  for  the  dumplings. 
Half  fill  a  bright  tin  pan  with  milk  and  water 
and  set  it  in  the  oven  to  boil.  Pare  and  core 
small  bui  good  and  easy  cooking  apples.  Roll 
out  the  paste  in  one  large  sheet,  put  an  apple  un- 
der and  close  and  pinch  off  the  paste  underneath 
the  apple — quickest  way — and  cook  the  dump- 
lings in  the  pan.  They  take  about  half  an  hour. 
Brush  a  sheet  of  paper  over  with  melted  drip- 
pings and  lay  it  on  top  to  keep  the  dumplings 
from  baking  at  first,  and  take  it  off,  baste  and 
brown  them  when  nearly  done.  Add  sugar  and  a 
little  butter  and  nutmeg  to  the  liquor  in  the  pan; 
strain  and  use  it  for  sauce. 


I  know  a  gentleman  who,  both  for  his  own 
gratification  and  to  perpetuate  the  custom  of  his 
father,  always  orders  his  apple  dumplings  when 
made  as  above,  brought  to  him  on  a  soup  plate, 
and  all  it  will  hold.  That  is  why  there  is  no  par- 
ticular number  of  apples  specified. 


3 — Tapioca  Jelly  with  Cream. 

13»2  pints  of  water — S  large  cupfuls. 

3  ounces  of  pearl  tapioca — J.^  teacupful. 

(i  ounces  of  sugar — a  teacupfuL 

l-^  a  lemon. 

StBep  the  tapioca  in  one  cupful  of  the  water 
for  two  hours.  The  water  is  to  be  cold  when 
added,  but  the  bowl  may  be  set  in  a  warm  place. 
Then  boil  the  other  two  cups  of  water  with  the 
sugar  in  it;  cut  the  lemon  rind,  or  part  of  it,  into 
shreds  and  throw  it  in  and  add  the  juice.  Stir 
in  the  steeped  tapioca,  and  let  cook  at  the  side  of 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


the  range  till  transparent — about  twenty  min- 
utes. May  be  colored  with  burnt  sugar  or  cran- 
berry syrup.  Set  in  wetted  cups  or  a  mold. 
Serve  cold,  with  sweetened  cream.  The  rough 
tapioca  can  be  used  as  well,  but  should  be 
crushed  by  rolling. 


4— Sugar  Cakes  or  Cookies. 

1  cupful  of  sugar — 8  ounces. 
J^  cupful  of  butter — 4  ounces. 
Seggs 

3^  cupful  of  milk. 

2  teaspoonf uls  of  baking  powder. 
1  pound  of  flour. 

Mix  in  the  order  as  prmted.     Sif  i  sugar  over 
before  cutting  out. 


5— Cup  aid  Spoon  Measurp. 

There  can  be  very  little  good  cooking  without 
exact  measures  and  weights  If  scales  accurate 
enough  to  weigh  by  ounces  cannjt  be  had  it  is 
possible  to  get  along  and  do  fine  work  even  by 
just  finding  a  cup  or  tumbler  that  holds  }^  pint 
and  then  learning  how  much  a  cup  of  each  arti- 
cle is  in  weight. 

A  teacupful  when  it  may  occur  in  this  book 
means  something  less  than  a  cup. 

A  CUP  is  a  }{  pint  coffee  cup. 

Water — A  cup  is  }^  pint,  which  is  8  ounces. 

Milk — Same  as  water,  vinegar  the  same. 

MoLA  SEs — A  cup  weighs  12  ounces. 

Sugar — A  rounded  oup  is  8  ounces. 

Butter — A  pressed-in  oup,  or  melted,  is  7 
ounces. 

Flour — A  level  cup  is  4  ounces,  heaped  6 
ounces. 

Suet — Minced  fine,  a  cup  is  4  ounces. 

Laed — A  cup  is  7  ounces,  pressed  or  melted. 

Raisins — A  heaped  cup,  without  stems,  is  8 
ounces.     A  quart  is  a  pouud. 

Currants — A  heaped  cup  is  6  ounces. 

Eggs — A  cup  of  raw  egg  is  .5  egsts. 

TOLKS — A  cup  holds  lo  raw  yolks. 

Whites — A  cup  holds  9  raw  whites. 

Whole  Eggs— 10  average  a  pound. 

Rice — A  oup  of  raw  rice  is  7  ounces. 

Ground  Coffee — A  heaping  cup  is  4  ounces. 

Tea — A"heaping  cup  is  2  ounces. 

A  Basting  SPOON  holds  4  tablespoonfuls;  it 
holds  2  ounces  of  molasses,  or  1  ounce  of  melted 
butter  or  lard. 

A  Tablespoon  holds  1  ounce,  heaped,  of  sugar, 
flour,  starch,  rice,  barley,  sago,  corn-meal;  or  }^ 
ounce  of  ground  coffee.  Fourteen  tablespoon- 
fuls are  i^  pint  or  cup.  liquid  measure. 

A  Teaspoonful  is  half  as  much  as  a  table- 
spoonful  ;  it  is  J^  ounce  of  many  articles ;  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  tea  is  J|  ounce;  of  ground  coffee 
^  ounce. 

Size  of  an  egg  of  butter  or  lard  is  anything 
from  1  to  3  ounces. 

Oysters — A  cup  is  1  dozen  selects  or  2  dozen 


small ;  4  cups  are  a  quart.     A  can  of   oysters 
contains  from  3  to  i}{  dozen. 


Apples  average  i  to  a  pound. 

Potatoes — Average  6  to  a  pound;  they  lose 
from  one-third  to  one-half  their  weight  by  par- 
ing raw,  but  only  15  pounds  out  of  100  if  cooked 
and  peeled  afterwards. 

Potatoes — 2,  as  usually  served  with  a  meal, 
cost  less  than  J^  cent. 

Coffee— To  the  gallon  }{  pound  is  the  usual 
allowance;  1  tablespooiiful  makes  a  good  cup. 

Tea — To  the  gallon  3^  pound  is  the  usual  al- 
lowance; 1  teaspoonful  makes  a  good  cup. 

Sugar — 3  teaspoonfuls  sweetens  J^  pint;  al- 
low a  pound  to  a  gallon  of  coffee  or  tea. 

The  cheapest  dishes  that  are  good  as  well  as 
cheap  are  Irish  stew,  soup,  macaroni,  potpies, 
apple  dumplings.     The  dearest  are  fried  meats. 


MENU     NO.     n.— SUPPER. 


6-Cratked  Wheat,  Musli  anil  Milk. 

8  cupfuls  of  water. 

1  cupful  of  cracked  wheat,  large. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt 

Use  a  flat-bottomed,  bright  iron  saucepan. 
Brush  the  inside  with  the  least  possible  amount 
of  melted  lard.  This  reduces  the  tendency  to 
burn  and  lessens  the  waste.  Let  the  water  boil 
and  stir  in  the  wheat  and  salt,  and  after  a  few 
minutes'  boiling  again  push  the  saucepan  to  the 
back  of  the  stove  and  let  it  eiraraer  with  the 
steam  shut  in  for  three  honre.  Peopje  who  re- 
member to  do  everything  at  the  right  time  steep 
the  wheat  before  cooking. 


It  is  not  the  wheat  itself  that  burns  on  the  bot- 
tom, but  the  dust  or  flour  in  it  that  has  nothing 
else  to  do  but  sink  and  stick  and  burn  even  be- 
fore the  water  gets  into  motion  by  boiling.  Wash 
the  wheat  in  two  waters  as  you  would  rice  to  get 
rid  of  the  fine  dust,  and  it  will  not  scorch.  An- 
other expedient  is  to  set  the  saucepan  on  a  brick 
when  the  top  of  the  range  is  too  hot  Cracked 
wheat  mush  is  served  in  a  bowl  by  itself,  and 
another  bowl  containing  cream,  set  in  a  plate. 


Most  people  in  Chicago  are  familiar  with  the 
appearance  of  the  kind  of  rolls  shown  in  the  cut, 
for  they  are  made  in  vast  quantities  and  in  great 
perfection  at  some  of  the  city  bakeries,  where 
they  are  generally  called  cream  rolls,  but  made 
of  varying  degrees  of  richness  they  are  known 
the  country  over  as  French  rolls,  or  Parker 
House,  or  by  bakers  generally  as  split  rolls,  be- 
cause they  part  open  in  the  middle.  The  parting 
can  be  caused  in  any  shape  or  kind  of  bread  by 
brushing  the  dough  where  it  is  doubled  together 
with  a  touch  of  melted  lard  or  butter,  no  matter 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


how  little.  Plaiu  rolls  placed  close  together  in 
the  pans  will  part  clean  and  even  wherever  they 
are  so  greased  between. 


7- French  Rolls. 

For  fifteen  and  tweutv  rolls  take 

1  coffeecupful  of  milk  or  water. 

\i  cupful  of  potato  yeast. 

1  egg  ov  the  yolk  only. 

3  tablespoonfula  of  melted  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

IM  pounds  of  flour — 6  cupf  uls. 

Sift  the  flour  into  a  pan,  make  a  hollow  in  the 
middle,  mix  the  yeast  and  water  together  and 
pour  them  in  through  a  strainer.  Throw  in  the 
sugar,  salt,  egg  and  melted  butter;  stir  around 
till  half  the  flour  is  taken  in,  and  then  beat  the 
batter  thoroughly.  Draw  in  the  rest  of  the  flour, 
beating  all  the  while,  and  then  scrape  out  the 
pan  and  knead  the  dough  smooth  on  the  table. 
Brush  the  inside  of  the  pan  with  the  least  poasi- 
ble  amount  of  melted  lard,  and  when  the  lump 
of  dough  is  put  back  in  it  brush  over  the  top  of 
that  likewise.  This  prevents  a  crust  forming  on 
the  dough,  and  prevents  sticking  to  the  pan. 
Cover  with  a  cloth  and  set  in  a  moderately  warm 
place  to  rise. 


The  dough  should  be  made  at  8  or  9  in  the 
morning.  The  milk  or  water  should  be  milk- 
warm,  but  must  not  be  hot  enough  to  kill  the 
yeast.  In  the  city  almost  everybody  uses  com- 
pressed yeast  and  one  cake  dissolved  in  half  a 
cup  of  water  will  be  the  same  as  the  potato  yeast 
called  for.  In  the  country  the  home-made  or 
else  the  yeast  cakes  have  to  be  used.  One  of 
the  great  city  bakers  told  me  the  other  day  in  a 
half  confidential  way,  not  knowing  that  I  under- 
stood the  business,  that  the  best  potato  yeast 
started  with  baker's  stock  yeast  is  far  better  than 
the  compressed,  and  he  always  keeps  a  little  on 
hand,  though  the  bulk  of  his  bread  is  made  with 
the  compressed.  The  trouble  in  buying  baker's 
yeast  is  they  water  it  too  much,  and  nearly  all 
yeast  and  no  water  has  to  be  used  to  raise  rolls 
quick  and  well. 


At  2  o'clock  knead  the  dough  on  the  table 
again  for  a  few  minutes;  then  put  it  back  in  the 
pan  to  rise  a  second  time.  At  4  knead  it  once 
more  and  make  it  into  rolls.  It  makes  the  great- 
est difference  in  the  quality  of  bread  and  rolls 
how  the  dough  is  kneaded.  If  you  make  it  up  in 
a  round  ball  on  the  table  and  keep  pressing  it 
under  the  wrists,  breaking  it  and  pulling  it  over, 
it  will  make  poor  bread,  short  and  crumbly  and 
mealy,  and  not  sweet  ealhig.  The  right  way, 
and  really  the  greatest  point  in  bread  mak.ng,  is 
to  press  out  the  dough  flat  with  the  knuckles, 
then  double  it  and  press  out  again,  and  so  on  for 
several  minutes.  The  best  city  bakeries  sell  a 
yellow  twisted  shape  of  sweetened  bread,  a  rusk 
or  coffee  cake,  that  can  be  pulled  apart  almost  in 
strings,  and  it  is  made  so  solely  by  the  way  of 
working  the  dough  above  recommended. 


The  dough,  having  been  sufficiently  kneaded, 
roll  it  up  in  round  balls,  roll  a  depression  across 
in  the  middle  with  a  round  stick  like  a  piece  of 
new  broom  handle,  brash  over  in  the  hollow 
with  a  touch  of  melted  lard  or  tratter,  double 
over  the  two  sides  together,  prena  down  nearly 
flat,  place  the  rolls  diagonally  in  a  baking  pan, 
not  touching  each  other,  brush  over  the  tops 
and  set  them  to  rise  nearly  an  hour,  then  bake  in 
a  hot  oven  about  ten  minutes.  Brush  over  with 
clear  water  when  they  come  out,  and  cover  them 
with  a  white  cloth  till  served. 


The  preceding  constitutes  the  programme  of 
bread-making,  and  will  serve  for  reference  for 
numerous  fancy  breads  to  come.  In  warm 
weather  the  safer  way  is  to  set  sponge  (make  bat- 
ter) first,  and  add  the  enriching  ingredients  and 
the  rest  of  the  flour  at  the  2  o'clocK  working.  It  is 
safer  as  a  precaution  against  souring  or  over- 
fermentation. 


8— RechauftB  of  Beef,  Muttan  or  Veal. 

1  large  cupful  of  meat  cut  in  dice. 

IJ^  cupfuls  of  raw  potatoes  same  way. 

1  small  onion  cut  or  chopped. 

Butter  size  of  a  walnut. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  as  much  pepper. 

Parsley,  and  flour  to  thickea 

Nothing  is  better  for  this  than  cold  corned  beef, 
and  it  should  be  one-fourth  fat.  Whatever  the 
meat  may  be,  shave  off  whatever  of  the  outside 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


looks  black  or  torn  that  the  dice  shapes  may  be 
even  and  not  discolored.  Set  the  meat  on  two  hours 
before  the  meal,  with  "water  enough  to  cover  it, 
and  let  it  simmer  an  hour.  Then  add  the  onion, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  the  potatoes.  Cook  half  an 
hour  longer  and  throw  in  the  butter  and  a  little 
chopped  parsley.  It  is  best  when  two  or  three 
turns  of  a  spoon  amongst  the  potatoes  thickens 
it  sufticiently,  otherwise  a  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  flour  worked  up  with  the  butter  can  be  added. 


A  Dish  of  Cold  Meat 

Looks  very  much  more  inviting  when  the  meat 
is  thinly  sliced,  with  a  knife  that  is  ground  more 
than  once  a  year,  and  laid  in  neat  order  on  a  plat- 
ter with  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  or  cress,  and  a 
dish  of  beets  in  vinegar  set  near  than  when  the 
misshapen  lump  is  set  on  the  table  as  it  is,  for 
some  one  to  carve  in  pain  and  tribulation. 


9— Potato  Salad  Plain. 

A  pint  bowl  of  cooked  and  sliced  potatoes. 

1  small  onion,  sliced  or  chopped. 

%  cupful  of  vinegar. 

Parsley,  salt,  pepper. 

1  tablespoonful  of  salad  oil,  or  of  fried  bacon 
fat. 

Jlix  all  together  by  pouring  from  one  bowl  to 
another  and  shaking  up. 


10 — A  licsson  in  Braising:. 

Braising  is  a  little  process  in  cookery  that  is 
but  little  known — by  that  name — but  without 
understanding  it  it  is  impossible  to  be  a  very 
good  cook.  But  many  an  old  Virginia  black 
a.unty,  and  many  another  in  the  places  where 
open  fire  places  prevail,  bakes  something  that 
has  a  wonderfully  savory  smell  while  cooking 
and  delicious  juciness  when  done  in  her  old- 
fashioned  oven  or  skillet,  or  whatever  it  is  on  the 
hearth  with  a  lid  and  coals  on  top  of  it,  without 
ever  dreaming  that  she  is  carrying  on  the 
process  of  braisiug,  one  of  the  chief  methods  of 
French  cookery,  and  in  a  manner  more  success- 
ful through  her  constant  practice  than  the  imita- 
tion done  on  top  of  a  range  can  generally  be. 
Braise  is  still  very  often  spelt  braize.  It  is  from  i 
the  name  of  the  vessel  formerly  used,  a  brazier,  | 
having  hot  coals  on  top  as  well  as  underneath. 
An  article  so  cooked  is  described  in  French 
menus  aa  "braise,"  with  an  accent  on  the  e,  but 
whether  in  that  form  or  as  "braised"  there  are 
few  commonly-appearing  words  that  are  so  little 
understood.  The  English  substitutes  used  are 
"potted"  and  "smothered,"  which,  however,  are 
not  equivalents  and  not  of  single  meaning.  We 
are  particular  in  trying  to  lay  this  down  plainly, 
because  any  one  who  is  familiar  with  the  tradi- 
tions of  that  savory  home  cooking  that  mnde  the 
■urjiey    or   duck    or    suckling  pig,   or   Dinah's 


'coon  or  'possum  with  sweet  potatoes  browning 
alongside  of  it,  that  cooking  that  was  done  in  the 
oven  on  the  hearth,  with  coals  under  and  on  top, 
and  that  has  always  been  declared  to  beat  any- 
thing the  city  cooks  ever  do,  now  knows  better 
what  we  are  trying  to  do  when  we  set  about 
"braising,"  in  one  minute,  than  if  they  had  fol- 
lowed us  through  the  possible  mystifications  of 
French  cooks'  terms  for  months.  It  may  aa  well 
be  stated  at  once  that  there  is  no  method  that  is 
good  that  the  masters  of  French  cookery  have  not 
adopted,  and  where  possible  improved  upon, 
and  they  have  made  the  best  possible  use  of  this 
method  of  cooking  with  the  steam  shut  in  and 
little  or  no  water,  simmering  the  meat  in  its  own 
gravy  and  fat,  keeping  the  outside  soft  and  free 
from  crust  and  discoloration,  even  while  gettmg 
it  shining  brown.  And  not  content  only  to  make 
the  meat  tender),  for  the  toughest  goose  even 
can  be  dissolved  into  soup  meat  by  this  way  of 
cooking),  they  delighted  to  change  the  flavors  of 
the  meats  and  make  them  seem  like  something 
else  Ijy  adding  large  proportions  of  vegetables 
and  an  undue  allowance  of  spices.  The  great 
use  of  braising  with  us  ia  to  mako  the  tough  and 
dry  and  undesirable  pieces  of  meat  or  fowl  or 
game  tender  and  even  delicious  eating  by  slow 
cookmg  in  little  more  liquor  than  their  own 
gravy.  And  we  shall  do  well,  if  we  would  please 
the  taste  of  the  generality  of  neople,  not  to 
throw  into  the  skillet  or  oven  the  multifarious 
seasonings  of  the  French  style,  but  to  follow  the 
home  practice  of  only  an  onion,  pepper  and  salt, 
and  perhaps  a  few  sprigs  of  garden  herbs. 


MENU    NO.    III.— BREAKFAST. 


11— Braised  Beef  Rolls  and  Mashed  Potatoes. 

People  who  buy  round  steaks  of  the  butchers 
find  over  half  of  it  tender  and  juicy,  fit  for  broil- 
ing; but  there  is  a  tough  side,  the  smaller  half  of 
the  steak,  that  it  ia  difiicult  to  serve  acceptably. 
Take  such  pieces  and  split  them  thinner,  lay- 
ing the  meat  on  the  board,  the  hand  on  top  of  It, 
and  cutting  through  the  flat  way  with  a  sharp 
knife.  Sprinkle  over  these  thin  slices  a  little 
minced  onion  and  a  plentiful  seasoning  of  pepper. 
The  salt  goes  in  the  saucepan,  for  a  good  reason. 
Then  roll  up  the  pieces  like  thick  sausages. 
They  will  do  without  tying  if  held  down  in  the 
saucepan  by  a  plate  resting  on  them,  but  it  ia 
neater  to  tie  with  thread  and  take  off  the  thread 
when  they  are  done.  Lay  the  bits  of  fat  or  suet 
or  a  thin  slice  of  salt  pork  on  the  bottom  of  the 
.saucepan  and  place  the  beef  rolls  on  that ;  add 
about  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and,  if  liked, 
a  piece  of  tiirnip  and  three  or  four  grains 
of  allspice  oru  little  thyme.  Grease  with  drippings 
a  round  piece  of  paper  and  lay  that  on  top  of  the 
meat,  pour  in  a  cupful  or  two  of   broth  or  water, 


10 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


put  on  the  lid  and  cook  very  slowly  for  about  two 
hours. 

The  particular  differeuce  between  braising  and 
boiling  ia  that  in  braising  there  is  never  enough 
liquor  to  allow  the  meat  to  rise  and  tumble  about ; 
the  cooking  is  done  by  slow  simmering  at  the' 
back  of  the  range  or  set  on  bricks,  or  possibly, 
still  covered  with  paper  and  lid  in  the  oven,  and 
the  essence  is  always  ready  to  be  quickly  con- 
verted into  gravy.  When  the  meat  is  done  ten- 
der, the  water  all  evaporated,  the  grease  clear 
and  the  gravy  o(  the  meat  aduering  to  the  sauce- 
pan bottom,  before  it  gets  too  dark  to  taste  well, 
take  otit  the  rolls,  pour  the  fat  into  your  jar  of 
drippings,  put  a  cup  of  water  into  the  saucepan 
and  let  it  boil  up ;  thicken  and  strain  for  gravy, 
to  be  poured  over  the  meat  rolls  at  last. 

That  is  braizing.  In  some  places  whole  hams 
are  braized  iu  a  gallon  of  wine  in  the  same  way 
and  the  condensed  wine  and  meat  juice  at  the 
last  becomes  the  sauce.  We  cannot,  with  our 
stove  or  rauge  to  cook  on,  put  the  hot  coals  on 
top  of  the  brazier  and  cannot  in  that  way  bake 
the  rick  brown  on  top  that  comes  after  the  water 
has  dried  out  by  boiling,  but  the  same  effect  is 
obtained  by  I'olUng  the  meats  over  on  the  brown- 
ing gravy  at  the  bottom.  And  if  a  suitable  pot 
and  lid  be  at  command  the  watching  and 
trouble  of  this  method  ia  considerably  lessened 
by  setting  it  inside  the  oven  and  letting  the  pro- 
cess go  on  at  a  moderate  heat  or  with  the  oven 
door  open. 

Supposing  our  beef  roll  to  have  been  done  in 
that  way,  to  dish  up  jjlace  some  mashed  potatoes 
on  a  family  platter,  smooth  over,  lay  the  beef 
rolls  crosswise  on  top  and  press  them  down  a 
little  and  pour  part  of  the  gravy  over  alk 


Articles  that  need  all  the  time  in  the  morning 
to  cook  should  be  made  ready  over  night  and  the 
fragments  of  that  day's  provisions  so  cleaned  up 
and  put  to  use. 

13— Fried  Corn  or  Mock  Oysters. 

1  pint  of  green  corn  or  X  can. 

1  egg- 

1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Take  half  a  can  or  less  of  the  corn  that  is  solid 
packed  and  pasty,  and  mash  h  in  a  pan  to  make 
it  imitate  the  green  corn  when  it  is  grated, 
mix  in  the  other  Ingredients.  Have  a  f rymg  pan 
ready,  hot,  with  a  httle  drippings,  lard  or  Ijutter 
in  it,  shape  up  the  corn  with  a  tablespoon,  drop 
in  the  pan  and  flatten  down  and  fry  on  both  sides. 
The  grated  fresh  corn  has  the  closestresemblance 
to  the  oyster  taste. 

13— Graham  MiifiHns  Raised  with  Yeast. 

8  ounces  of  graham  flour — 3  cupfuls. 

4  ounces  of  white  flour — 1  cupful. 

1 J^  cupfuls  of  liquor — milk  and  yeast  mixed. 


1  tablespoonful  of  molasses. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter. 
1  egg.     Salt  J^  teaspooQful. 

Mix  these  things  together  over  night;  they 
make  a  stiff  batter  The  milk  should  be  luke- 
warm when  the  yeast  is  mixed  with  it,  not  hot 
Beat  the  mixture  a  minute  or  two.  Scrape  down 
the  sides  of  the  pan,  smooth  over  the  top  with 
the  back  of  a  spoon,  dipped  in  melted  lard  to  pre- 
vent a  crust  drying  on  the  top,  then  set  the  bat- 
ter in  a  moderately  warm  place  to  rise.  In  the 
morning  beat  up  again,  put  iu  greased  gem  pans 
or  muffin  rings,  rise  half  an  hour,  and  bake. 

But  if  you  have  Graham  bread  dough  already 
made — plain  dough  for  loaves,  we  mean — and 
wish  to  make  some  mnffiins  for  breakfast  of  part 
of  it,  use  these  proportions. 

14^Graham  M-iiffins  Made  with  Li;rht  Dough. 

1  pound  of  dough,  already  light. 

2  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  melted. 
1  tablespoonful  of  molasses. 

}4  cupful  of  warm  milk. 

1  egg  or  3  yolks.     Salt. 

Put  the  piece  of  dough  in  a  pan  with  all  the 
other  ingredients  and  set  them  in  a  moderately 
warm  place  awhile,  then  mix  well  together  and 
beat  the  mixture  several  mmutes.  Half  fill 
greased  mufSn  rings  with  the  batter,  let  rise  till 
the  rings  are  full,  and  bake  about  eight  minutes. 
Brush  over  with  a  little  hot  water  and  butter 
when  done.  Make  ten  to  fifteen,  according  to 
size. 


15— Rice  Batter  Calces. 

1  heaping  pint  of  dry  cooked  rice. 

1  lai'ge  cupful  of  milk  or  water. 

()  ounces  of  flour — 3  level  cupfuls. 

2  eggs  (or  5  yolks  for  best  quality). 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  syrup. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.    Salt. 

The  amount  of  rice  to  be  cooked  specially  fur 
this  is  one  teacupf  ul,  boiled  in  a  pint  of  water, 
with  the  steam  shut  in.  If  ready  cooked  cold 
rice,  warm  the  milk  and  mash  the  rice  with  it 
free  from  lumps,  adding  flour  at  the  same  time. 
Then  mix  in  the  other  ingredients ;  the  eggs 
well  beaten  first  Bake  on  a  griddle,  Butter- 
milk and  soda  can  be  used  instead  of  the  powder 
and  sweet  milk. 


16— Best  Uoiighnuts,  Yoast-Raised. 

3  pounds  of  light  bread  dough. 

i  ounces  of  sugar  or  syrup — }>{  cupfuL 
legg. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  lard. 
Lard  or  other  fat  to  fry  in. 

Put  the  lump  of  dough  in  a  pan  and  the  other  in- 
gredients with  it,  and  set  them  iu  a  warm  place. 
When  aU  warmed  and  the  dough  light,  work  them 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


11 


all  together.  Let  staud  half  an  hour  longer, 
then  it  can  be  beaten  sraooth  and  a  handful 
of  flour  added  to  make  it  soft  dough.  Let  it 
Btand  to  rise  four  hours  if  in  the  day  time,  but  if 
the  dough  is  made  at  night  with  a  piece  of  the 
roll  dough  left  over  from  the  supper  breads  it 
should  be  left  all  night  to  rise  and  be  fried  next 
morning. 

Knead  by  pressing  out  and  folding  over  a  few- 
times,  roll  out  to  a  thin  sheet,  brush  all  over 
with  the  least  possible  melted  lard  and  then  cut 
out  ring  shapes.  Place  these  on  pans  to  rise 
half  an  hour,  then  drop  them  in  hot  lard  to  fry. 
They  cook  quicker  than  the  kind  made  with  pow- 
der or  with  buttermilk  and  are  much  larger  for 
their  weight.  Should  not  be  allowed  to  get  too 
light  in  the  pans,  as  that  is  one  reason  why 
doughnuts  soak  up  fat  instead  of  coming  out 
di'y  and  wholesome.  It  is  necessary  to  be  strict 
about  the  weight  of  sugar,  not  to  get  too  much, 
for  that  makes  them  fry  too  dark  and  be  doughy 
eating  and  greasy. 


17— Ginger 

12  ounces  of  white  sugar. 
8  ounces  of  butter. 
3  eggs. 

1  small  cupful  of  milk. 

2  ounces  of  ground  ginger. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

1)4  pounds  of  flour,  or  enough  to  roll  out. 

Warm  the  butter  and  sugar  and  stir  to  a 
cream.  Add  the  eggs,  then  the  milk  slightly 
warmed,  then  the  ginger  and  powder  and  the 
most  of  the  flour.  Work  the  dough  on  the  table 
by  pressing  it  together  with  the  flat  hands.  To 
be  perfect  the  cakes  mustbe  cut  out  of  the  dough 
as  soft  as  it  can  be  handled.  When  the  sheet  of 
dough  is  rolled  out  sift  granulated  sugar  all  over 
and  run  the  rolling-pin  over  it.  Cut  out  and 
bake  carefully. 


We  shall  present  recipes  for  making  many 
richer  articles,  but  the  two  just  preceding  are 
the  very  best  possible  for  their  kind  and  degree. 
But  we  all  know  that  there  is  a  knack  to  be  ac- 
quired in  working  any  kind  of  dough  that  makes 
one  person's  cookies  or  doughnuts  very  much 
better  than  another's  made  by  the  same  recipe. 
The  light  dough  miist  be  really  light  and  lively, 
not  sour,  not  too  much  fermented,  and  the  frying 
fat  sweet,  not  tasting  of  onions,  etc.  The  ginger 
cookies  will  run  out  of  shape  with  too  much 
baking  powder,  or  be  as  hard  as  pieces  of 
crockery  with  too  much-  flour  and  sugar. 


18~About  Soup  Stock  Management. 

A  really  good  cook  does  not  know  how  to  get 
along  without  a  stock  boiler  or  something  that 
serves  for  one,  it  is  such  a  help  toward  good 
cooking,    and   makes   the  work   easier.     There 


may  be  times  wh«n  bouillon  or  some  other  clear 
soup  is  to  be  served  in  cups  at  luncheon  that 
special  kinds  of  meat  will  be  chosen  to  make  it 
with.  Ordinarily,  we  have  come  to  believe  any 
directions  that  may  be  given  to  use 
a  rabbit,  a  chicken,  a  piece  of  veal  and  a 
sample  of  all  the  rest  of  the  butcher's 
stock  do  no  good  whatever  and  the  domestic 
cook  goes  on  serenely  making  a  very  passable 
soup  with  a  broken  marrowbone  and  a  handful 
of  rough  cut  or  chopped  vegetables,  and  thinks 
it  no  detriment  if  a  little  of  the  marrow  fat  still 
floats  on  the  top.  That  is  all  right,  only  instead 
of  one  kind  of  soup  always,  we  are  going  to 
make  a  good  many.  Where  the  best  manage- 
ment prevails  and  the  work  goes  on  like  ma- 
chinery, one  wheel  within  another,  there  is  a 
regular  time  of  day  to  set  the  stock  boiler  on,  it 
may  be  in  the  evening  to  simmer  till  the  last,  and 
then  the  liquor  strained  off  is  set  away  till  the 
next  day.  or  it  may  be  early  in  the  morning.  The 
boiler  should  be  larger  than  the  ordinary  stove 
pots.    Put  into  it  a  gallon  of  clear,  cold  water. 

The  meats  to  be  cooked  during  the  day  are 
trimmed  of  all  the  tough  and  gristly  ends,  such 
as  are  sure  to  be  thrown  away  if  fried,  broiled  or 
roasted,  and  all  the  bones  are  taken  from  the 
meat  that  can  be  without  detriment  to  the  joint, 
and  these  scraps,  after  washing  in  clear  water, 
are  put  into  the  boiler.  Then,  if  there  is  a  soup 
bone  beside,  or  a  chicken  to  be  boiled,  or  a  leg  of 
mutton  it  will  be  so  much  the  richer  stock. 
Some  days  there  will  be  reason  to  choose  which 
kind  of  soup  to  make,  according  to  the  contents 
of  the  stock  boiler,  which  is  a  more  economical 
way  to  look  at  it  than  if  the  boiler  was  to  be  fur- 
nished to  suit  the  soup.  A  cream  soup,  for  ex- 
ample, may  be  made  when  the  stock  is  thin,  and 
when  it  is  rich  as  jelly  make  beef  gravy  soup  or 
mock  turtle. 

The  available  meat  being  in  next,  throw  in  a 
little  vegetable  seasoning,  such  as  a  small  onion 
and  piece  of  turnip  and  carrot.  But  these  are 
not  indispensable  for  the  soup  will  be  seasoned 
afterwards. 

Let  the  boiler  heat  slowly  and  when  at  last  it 
boils,  skim  carefully  two  or  three  times,  put  the 
lid  on  and  let  simmer  4  or  5  hours,  when  there 
will  probably  be  2  quarts  of  rich  stock  ready 
when  strained,  to  he  used  in  soup  or  to  make 
gravies  and  sauces. 

The  strainer  fine  enough  for  ordinary  use  is 
made  of  perforated  tin,  or  a  pan  with  a  perfor- 
ated tin  bottom.  Strike  the  edge  of  the  pan 
rapidly  to  make  the  soup  go  through. 


MENU    NO.   IV.— DINNER. 


19— Celery  Cream  Soup. 

3  p-ints  of  soup  stock. 

1  pint  of  rich  milk. 

Outside  stalks  of  celery,  about  4. 


12 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


1  small  onion,  minced. 

Small  piece  of  lean  cooked  ham. 

1  tablespoonf  ul  of  flour. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Salt  and  white  pepper. 

Boil  the  soup  stock  with  the  onion  and  scrap  of 
ham  in  it  for  flavor.  Cut  up  the  celery — about 
enough  to  fill  a  large  cup — in  dice  shapes,  and 
boil  it  ten  minutes  in  water;  then  strain  the 
water  away.  Mix  the  butter  and  flour  together, 
and  stir  them  into  the  boiling  stock  to  thicken  it 
slightly,  then  strain  it  into  another  saucepan  and 
put  in  the  parboiled  celery  and  the  pint  of  milk. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Let  it 
simmer  ten  minutes  or  more  after  the  celery 
is  in. 

Mince  a  piece  of  green  leaf  of  celery  very  fine, 
and  sprinkle  it  from  a  knife  point  into  the  soup. 
This  makes  six  or  seven  plates. 


Butter  and  flour  for  thickening  is  the  orthodox 
article  (roux),  but  should  the  butter  fail  to  arrive 
punctually  at  the  time  the  flour  can  be  mixed 
with  a  little  water  instead.  The  stock  used 
should  have  been  skimmed  free  from  fat,  if  not 
the  soup  must  be. 

30— Boiled  Salmon  Steak. 

Boil  a  pint  of  broth  or  water  with  a  small  piece 
of  celery  in  it  and  half  a  handful  of  parsley, 
pepper  and  salt  to  season,  and  a  gill  of  white 
wine  Cut  the  salmon  steaks  in  suitable  pieces, 
and  put  the  fragments  and  bone  in  the  boiling 
liquor  Place  the  salmon  pieces  in  a  shallow, 
bright  saucepan,  strain  the  seasoned  broth  over 
them  and  cook  by  brisk  boiling,  with  a  lid  or 
plate  on  top,  eight  or  ten  minutes.  Serve  in  a 
deep  dish  or  tureen,  with  the  remaining  liquor 
instead  of  a  sauce.  To  be  eaten  with  bread  and 
butter. 

The  merit  of  this  dish  is  in  the  full  preserva- 
tion of  the  flavor  and  richness  of  the  fish. 

A  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  may  be  used 
instead  of  the  wme. 


21— Hollandaise  Potatoes. 

Generally  served  with  fish  on  the  same  small 
plate.  The  name  is  derived  from  the  sauce  hol- 
landaise. 

The  potatoes  should  be  cut  all  mto  one  neat 
shape  before  cooking.  There  are  potato  spoons 
or  scoops  sold  that  cut  out  marbles  or  boulettes, 
and  the  remainder  of  the  potato  does  to  steam 
and  mash.  Another  way  is  to  cut  cores  out  of 
the  potatoes  with  an  apple  corer,  or  even  with  a 
tin  funnel,  and  cut  these  across  in  pieces  Uke 
lozenges.  PerhajDS  a  large  cupful  of  these  will 
be  enough.  The  remaining  alternative  is  to  cut 
the  potatoes  in  large  dice. 

Set  the  potatoes  on  the  range  in  cold  water 
with  a  little  salt  in.  Boil  very  gently  about 
twenty  minutes,  taking  care  lest  they  break  and 


boil  away,  then  pour  off  the  hot  water  and  let 
them  cool  and  dry  a  little,  and  when  to  be  served 
pour  over  them  a  cupful  of  hoUandaise  sauce. 
Sprinkle  a  little  pinch  of  chopped  parsley  over 
the  top. 

23— HoUandaise  Sauce,  English  Way. 

For  fish,  cauliflower,  asparagus  and  any  vege- 
tables. It  is  golden  yellow,  shining  and  smooth, 
just  thick  enough  to  be  taken  up  on  the  point  of 
a  knife,  if  for  fish,  but  needs  to  be  thinner  for 
vegetable  dressing. 

}4  cupful  of  broth,  milk  or  water. 

4  ounces  of  butter — a  teacupful. 

4  yolks  of  eggs. 

1  lemon — juice  only. 

Peppercorns,  nutmeg,  salt. 

Boil  the  broth  with  the  peppercorns— about  a 
dozen— in  it  and  a  scrap  of  broken  nutmeg  and 
level  teaapoonful  of  salt.  When  flavored  strain 
the  broth  into  another  saucepan  or  a  tin  cup. 
Put  in  two-thirds  of  the  butter  and  the  4  yolks 
and  beat  it  with  a  fork  over  the  fire  until  it 
thickens  like  cream.  Then  take  it  off  and  beat 
in  the  rest  of  the  butter  in  Utile  bits,  still  beating 
until  all  is  melted.  Then  squeeze  in  the  lemon 
juice,  or  use  vinegar  for  a  substitute. 


The  sauce  must  never  fairly  boil,  only  just 
begin  to.  There  is  a  moment,  about  a  minute 
after  the  cup  is  set  on  the  fire,  that  the  sauce  is 
at  its  thickest  degree,  like  softened  butter.  After 
that  a  separation  or  curdling  takes  place,  not 
very  plain  to  the  eye,  but  that  makes  the  sauce 
thin  and  spoils  it. 

33— Koast  Chicken— Oyster  Oressins:- 

In  order  to  know  how  long  to  cook  a  fowl  it  is 
necessary  to  know  something  about  the  age  of 
it.  We  hold  that  skill  in  cooliery  should  be  skill 
to  equalize  provisions,  and  while  the  cook  should 
know  what  things  are  best  and  when  there 
should  be  but  little  preference  for  one  over  an- 
other from  the  cook's  point  of  view,  it  is,  given 
the  kind  of  provisions,  what  is  the  best  method 
to  apply  to  make  the  best  of  itV 

The  best  fowls  f  cr  roasting  are  nearly  a  year 
old,  nearly  full  grown  and  fat.  When  the  age 
cannot  be  told  from  the  appearance  after  dress- 
ing, try  if  the  thumb  can  be  pushed  through  the 
skin  that  stretches  between  the  wing  joint  and 
pinion.  The  ease  with  which  this  can  be  broken 
is  according  to  the  tenderness  of  the  fowl. 

Singe  it  and  pick  over,  draw  and  wash  the 
fowl,  cut  the  neck  off  short  and  tie  the  skin  over 
it,  and  truss  the  fowl  with  the  wings  Dent  over 
backwards  and  legs  held  either  by  means  of  a 
skewer  thrust  through  them  and  the  body  or  with 
twine.  Previously  to  which,  however,  the  inside 
should  be  filled  with  stufiing. 

It  is  a  mistake  to  press  in  the  stuffing  too  solid. 
One  object  of  the  stuffing  is  the  absorption  into 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


13 


it  of  the  gravy  of  the  fowl.  Epicures  have 
adopted  various  expedienta  to  save  and  secure 
these  juices,  such  as  placing  slices  of  toast  to 
catch  the  dri'ppings  of  birds  roasting  on  the  spit, 
and  baking  puddings  under  meat  to  catch  the 
gravy.  Beside  that  the  stuffiing,  if  not  too  solid 
to  get  hot  and  give  out  steam,  imparts  the  flavor 
of  its  seasonings  to  the  meat. 


24— Oyster  Stutfing  for  Chickens,  Etc. 

2  doz  small  oysters  and  their  liquor. 

1  cupful  of  white  bread  crumbs. 

1  cupful  of  oyster  crackers  rolled  small. 

4  ounces  of  best  butter — level  teacupful. 

1  egg.     Salt  and  pepper  mixed,  1  teaspoonful. 

Melt  the  butter  and  pour  it  over  the  bread  and 
cracker  crumbs  in  a  pan,  and  then  stram  the 
oyster  liquor  in,  add  the  egg,  pepper  and  salt. 
Stir  up  a  little  to  mix  but  not  make  it  pasty,  and 
then  mix  in  the  oysters  whole. 


The  above  is  sufficient  for  one  large  fowl  or 
two  small  ones,  or  a  small  turkey  or  a  goose. 


The  admixture  of  bread  and  cracker  crumbs 
is  not  a  matter  of  fancy,  but  affords  a  richer 
flavor  than  bread  alone. 


The  fowl  having  been  prepared,  place  it  in  a 
small  pan  with  some  salt  strewn  over  the  bottom, 
and  put  in  the  gizzard  and  heart  or  any  otiier  pieces 
of  meat  too  small  to  cook  alone  and  a  cupful  of 
drippings.  Put  in  a  cupful  of  hot  water,  lay  a 
greased  paper  on  top  of  the  fowl,  set  it  in  the  oven 
and  cook  about  an  hour.  Then  take  off  the  paper 
and  baste  the  fowl  with  a  little  softened  butter, 
which  will  froth  up  on  the  surface  and  cause  it 
to  brown  nicely.  After  the  fowl  has  been  taken 
out  pour  off  all  the  grease,  put  water  in  the  pan, 
boil  and  thicken,  and  strain  it  for  gravy. 

35— Asparagrus  on  Toast. 

Cut  off  an  inch  length  of  the  bottom  of  the 
bunch  of  asparagus  to  make  the  stalks  even  and 
let  it  remain  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  till  near  din- 
ner time.  To  have  this  vegetable  beautifully 
green  it  is  necessary  besides  to  put  into  the  water 
it  IS  boiled  in  a  pinch  of  soda  or  of  carbonate  of 
ammonia,  say  about  the  weight  of  a  pea ;  it  does 
harm  to  have  too  much.  Take  the  asparagus 
from  the  cold  straight  into  the  boiling  water  and 
let  it  cook  from  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes,  accord- 
ing to  its  thickness  and  the  rate  of  bailing,  and 
then  draining  the  water,  take  the  twine  from  the 
bunch  and  serve.  There  should  be  salt  in  the 
water  it  is  boiled  in. 

Make  a  piece  of  thin  toast  for  each  individual 
dish.  Place  the  white  end  of  the  asparagus  on 
the  toast  and  pour  a  tableapoonful  of  melted 
fresh  butter  on  the  green  ends  on  the  dish. 


36— Sweetbreads  Sautes—Milanaise, 

3  calves'  sweetbreads. 

8  ounces  of  butter. 

1  lemon. 

J^  can  of  French  green  peas. 

Flour  and  seasoning. 

First  boil  the  sweetbreads,  after  washing  them 
in  water  for  an  hour,  if  small,  but  twice  as  long 
if  large,  and  then  let  them  get  quite  cold,  pressed 
between  two  dishes.  When  boiling  them  it  is 
best  to  season  the  water  with  salt  and  a  dash  of 


split  them  into  two  flat  halves.  Pepper  and  salt 
them,  roll  well  in  flour,  and  a  little  before  dinner 
time  melt  the  half-pound  of  butter  in  a  large 
frying-pan  and  fry  the  sweetbreads  in  it  brown 
on  both  sides.  The  butter  froths  in  the  pan  and 
over  the  sweetbreads,  and  they  should,  if  it  can 
be  so  managed,  be  sent  to  the  table  before  it  ail 
subsides.  Warm  the  French  peas  in  a  saucepan, 
place  the  sweetbreads  on  a  dish  and  the  peas 
around  them  and  ornament  with  the  lemou  cut  in 
quarters. 

Sweetbreads  are  the  white,  fat  looking  pieces, 
glands,  probably,  found  near  the  heart  of  the  an- 
imal and  smaller  ones  are  found  at  the  root  of 
the  tongue.  While  calves'  sweetbreads  are  al- 
ways to  be  chosen  if  choice  is  given,  those  of  full 
grown  animals  are  used  as  well. 


37— Macaroni  and  Cheese— Becliamel. 

5  ounces  of  macaroni, 

2  ounces  of  cheese. 

3  ounces  of  butter. 

IJ^  pints  of  milk,  or  water. 

2  eggs.     Salt. 

Parsley,  and  flour  thickening. 

Boil  the  macaroni  by  itself  first,  throwing  it 
into  water  that  is  already  boiling  and  salted.  Let 
it  cook  only  20  minutes.  Then  drain  it  dry 
and  put  it  into  a  pan  or  baking  dish  holding  about 
three  pints. 

Chop  the  cheese,  not  very  fine,  and  mix  it  with 
the  macaroni,  likewise  the  butter.  Beat  the  two 
eggs  and  the  pint  of  water  or  milk  together, 
pour  them  on  the  macaroni  and  set  in  the  oven  to 
bake.  While  it  is  getting  hot  boil  a  cup  of  milk 
(the  remaining  half  pint  of  the  recipe),  and 
thicken  it  with  a  rounded  tablespoonf  ul  of  flour 
mixed  up  with  part  of  it  in  a  cup,  add  salt  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  when  the 
macaroni  in  the  oven  is  set  so  that  the  two  can- 
not mix,  pour  this  white  cream  sauce  on  top  of 
it,  shut  up  the  oven,  and  let  it  bake  a  yellow 
brown.  This  makes  a  very  attractive  dish,  as 
the  yellow  cheese  and  custard  boils  up  in  spots 
among  the  white  sauce  and  parsley. 


14 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


38— Roman  Punch. 

1  pint  of  water. 

10  ounces  of  sugar. 

1  lemon,  juice  and  rind. 

1  orange,  juice  only. 

2  whites  of  eggs. 

Few  spoonfuls  of  rum  or  chablis. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  water,  hot ;  grate  the 
rind  of  the  lemon — the  yellow  part  only — into  a 
bowl,  and  squeeze  in  the  juice  and  that  of  the  or- 
ange and  pour  the  hot  syrup  to  them.  Let  stand 
awhile,  then  strain  into  a  freezer.  Freeze,  and 
when  nearly  finished  whip  the  two  whites  and 
stir  them  in  and  beat  up  well.  Add  the  rum,  or 
the  mixture  of  rum  and  wine,  or  the  wine  substi- 
tute for  rum,  at  last.     Serve  in  glasses. 


39~Mallar(l  Duck — Apple  Sauce. 

The  mallard  is  one  of  the  best  ducks  to  roast, 
being  nearly  always  tender  and  easy  to  cook. 
Epicures  say  that  wild  ducks  should  never  be 
washed,  only  wiped  dry  inside  and  out.  That 
must  be  as  people  may  please.  The  mallard, 
though  well  flavored,  is  not  so  deUcate  that  wash- 
ing in  cold  water  could  injure  it  seriously. 
Besides,  we  are  going  to  add  to  it  a  little  flavor 
of  the  dressing. 

30 — Bread  Stuffing:  for  Oucks  and  Geese. 

1  quart  of  finely  minced  bread  crumbs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion. 

1  level  teaspoonful  each  or  salt,   pepper  and 


J^  cupful  of  warm  watei-. 

}^  cupful  of  the  fat  from  fried  sausage,  or  of 
lard. 

Mis  the  ingredients  all  together  in  a  pan,  not 
trying  to  make  the  dressing  too  moist,  as  it  will 
absorb  gravy  while  baking.  The  egg  should  be 
mixed  with  the  water  first. 


Singe  the  duck,  pick  it  over,  draw,  and  wash  it 
in  cold  water,  dry  it  out,  and  then  stuff  it  Chop 
off  the  wings,  except  the  main  joints,  which  tie 
close  to  the  sides  with  twine ;  also  tie  down  the 
legs,  and  bake  the  duck  in  a  hot  oven  from  thirty 
to  forty  minutes.  Baste  frequently  with  fat 
from  the  pan.  It  spoils  these  ducks  to  put  them 
in  an  oven  that  ia  nearly  cold.  All  the  gravy 
oozes  out.  Let  them  be  made  hot  quickly  at 
first,  and  slack  down  afterward. 


31— Apple  Sauce  for  Meats. 

Pare  good,  npe  apples  and  slice  them  into  a 
bright  saucepan.  Add  water  enough  to  come  up 
level  with  the  apples  and  stew  with  a  lid  on  till 
done — about  thirty  minutes.  While  they  are 
stewing  throw  in  a  little  butter.  Masii  at  last 
with  the  back  of  a  spoon.     No  sugar. 


33-Celery  Salad. 

Chop  equal  parts  of  outside  stalks  of  celery — 
about  four — and  tender  white  cabbage  together 
in  a  chopping  bowl,  and  throw  in  a  green  leaf  of 
celery  that  has  been  dipped  in  boiling  water  to 
give  it  all  a  green  color.  Mix  with  the  minced 
celery  in  a  dish  a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  a  little 
salt,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  two  or  three  spoon- 
fuls of  the  HoUandaise  sauce  (No.  23).  It  makes 
a  rich  buttery  salad  that  can  be  piled  on  a  dish 
or  in  individual  plates. 


33— Queen  Frittel-s- Beigrnets  Souffles. 

3^  pint  of  water — a  coffee  cupful. 

2  ounces  of  butter,  large — size  of  a  duck's  egg. 

4  ounces  of  flour — large  cupf  uL 

.5  eggs. 

Set  the  water  on  to  boil  in  a  little  saucepan  and 
the  butter  (or  lard  will  do)  in  it.  Stir  in  the  flour 
all  at  once  and  work  the  paste  thus  made  with  a 
spoon  till  smooth  and  well  cooked.  Take  it  from 
the  fire  and  work  in  the  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beat- 
ing in  one  well  before  adding  another,  and  when 
all  are  in  beat  the  mixture  thoroughly  against 
the  side  of  the  saucepan.  Make  some  lard 
hot,  It  will  take  half  a  saueepanful.  Drop 
pieces  of  the  batter  about  as  large  as  eggs  and 
watch  them  swell  and  expand  in  the  hot  lard  and 
become  hollow  and  light.  Only  four  or  five  at  a 
time  can  be  fried  because  they  need  lots  of  room. 


34— Transparent  Sauce  for  Fritters. 

1  cupful  of  water. 

4  ounces  of  sugar — J^  cup. 

1  rounded  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch. 

14  a  lemon.    Bit  of  butter. 

Boil  the  water.  Mix  the  starch  with  the  sugar 
dry  and  stir  them  in.  Slice  the  lemon  and  throw 
it  in,  and  a  speck  of  butter.  Let  boil  transparent. 
Pour  a  large  spoonful  over  each  fritter  as  they 
are  dished  up. 


35— White  Cocoanut  Fie. 

1  cupful  of  milk. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

1  rounded  tablespoonful  of  starch. 

2  or  3  ounces  of  grated  cocoanut 

3  or  4  whites  of  eggs. 
Small  piece  of  butter. 
Pinch  of  salt 

Boil  the  milk  alone.  Mix  the  starch  and  sugar 
together  dry  and  stir  them  in ;  then  the  butter  and 
cocoanut  Set  it  away  to  get  cold.  Whip  the 
whites  (that  were  left  from  making  HoUandaise) 
to  a  firm  froth  and  mix  them  with  the  p  le- 
mixture.  Bake  in  thin  crusts  of  puff  paste. 
Makes  two  small  pies. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


15 


36— Jelly  Cake. 

8  ounces  of  granulated  sugar. 
5  eggs. 

4  ounces  of  butter,  melted. 
^  cup  of  milk. 

13  ounces  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  together  a  minute  or 
two,  add  the  melted  butter,  the  milk,  the  powder 
and  the  flour.  Bake  on  jelly-cake  pans  as  thin 
as  it  can  be  spread.  Have  three  sheets  and 
spread  jelly  between  and  powdered  sugar  on 
top. 

37— Pear   Salad— Dessert  Dish. 

5  large  mellow  pears. 

4  tablespoonf  uls  of  powdered  sugar. 

1  lemon — juice  only. 

4  tabiespoonfuls  of  kirschenwasser. 

Pare  ana  core  the  pears  and  slice  them  into  a 
glass  bowl,  squeeze  the  lemon  juice  over  the 
slices  and  cover  with  the  powdered  sugar.  Keep 
cold,  and  when  to  be  served  add  the  wineglassful 
of  kirschenwasser  and  shake  to  mix.  Serve  in 
glass  ice  dishes. 


38— Coffee   Ice   Cream. 

IJ^  pints  of  cream. 

J^  pint  of  coffee. 

13  ounces  of  sugar. 

Make  a  cold  infusion  of  coffee  by  steeping  a 
cupful  of  coarsely  ground  Java  or  Mocha  in  one 
and  a  half  cups  of  cold  water  and  letting  it  re- 
main over  night  in  a  bottle.  Strain  off  the  I'e- 
quired  amount  through  a  napkin  previously 
rinsed  in  hot  water,  and  mix  it  with  sweetened 
cream.  This  is  the  better  way,  but  a  fair  article 
can  be  made  with  clear  coffee  from  the  breakfast 
urn.  Freeze,  and  when  frozen  beat  the  cream 
hght  with  a  long  wooden  spoon. 


To  freeze  a  quart  of  cream  need  be  no  more 
than  a  trifling  incident  to  any  dinner,  there  being 
a  suitable  tub  to  break  ice  in  always  ready  and  a 
pail  of  coarse  salt.  Almost  any  deep  tin  vessel  will 
do  to  freeze  so  small  a  quantity  in,  especially 
in  winter,  independently  of  the  cog-wheeled  and 
porcelain-lined  arrangements  for  making  ice- 
cream in  large  amounts,  that  present  such  a  bar- 
rier of  expense  to  the  private  ice-cream  maker. 
Pound  the  ice  very  fine  and  mix  some  snow  with 
it.  If  you  have  no  freezer  put  the  prepared 
cream  in  a  3-quart  tin  pail,  set  it  in  the  tub  or 
pail  of  pounded  ice  and  snow,  mix  about  a  sixth 
as  much  salt  in  and  add  cold  water  tiU  the  ice- 
cream pail  will  go  down  into  the  freezing  mix- 
ture. By  turning  the  pail  about  with  one  hand 
and  stirring  the  cream  with  a  long  wooden  spoon 
in  the  other  a  quart  of  cream  may  be  frozen  in  a 
fev^  minutes.    Three  kinds  and  colors  for  a  brick 


may  be  frozen  with  equal  ease  at  the  same  time, 
the  quantity  of  each  being  small. 


"And  what  is  the  use  of  that?"  say  some  quiz- 
zical people  who  are  altogether  too  practical  in 
their  ideas ;  "does  a  lamb  chop  taste  any  better 
for  being  trimmed  up  so,  or  are  the  potal^es  any- 
thing but  potatoes  because  they  are  in  fancy 
shapes?" 

We  have  nothing  to  say  to  such  people  except 
that  there  is  such  a  thing  as  art  in  cooking  as 
there  is  art  in  dress,  and  it  consists  likewise 
partly  in  cutting  and  trimming  and  setting  off 
and  fixing  up. 


MENU    NO.    V— TEA 


39— A  Dish  of  I.ainb  Cutlets  and  Toast. 

Ontly  the  "rack"  or  ribs  can  be  used  this  way 
with  good  effect — a  reason  why  the  dish  of  cote- 
lettes  d'agneau  is  accounted  choice  above  its 
merits.  The'  necessary  selection  makes  it  dear. 
Take  the  rack  and  cut  the  chops  at  home ;  few 
butchers  will  trim  them  right.  First  cut  and 
chop  off  all  the  backbone  at  once.  Saw  or  chop 
off  the  ends  of  the  ribs  so  that  all  the  cutlets  will 
be  of  one  length — but  little  longer  than  the  mid- 
dle finger.  Then  cut  through,  havmg  two  rib 
bones  in  each  chop ;  carefully  cut  out  one  bone, 
leaving  the  double  allowance  of  meat  to  the 
other,  and  trim  and  scrape  the  end  of  that  clean 
for  about  an  iuoh.  Then  flatten  the  cutlets  with 
the  side  of  the  cleaver,  and  finally  trim  off  the 
ragged  edges  to  neat  and  compact  proportions. 

And  now,  once  for  all,  we  have  the  lamb  cut- 
lets trimmed  the  way  people  like  them  and  ready 
for  cooking.  The  different  accompaniments  and 
sauces  for  them  make  the  great  number  of 
"styles"  in  which  they  are  served. 


40— Plain  Broilingr. 

The  obstacles  in  the  way  of  broiling  meat  are 
not  really  very  great  in  any  place  where  a  stove  is 
used.  It  might  be  useless  to  recommend  any 
particular  api^liances,  for  the  best  contrivance  of 
to-day  may  soon  be  superseded  by  a  better  in- 
vention. Our  concern  is  to  get  a  broiling  fire, 
and  the  first  requisite  for  that  is  to  have  a  sack 
of  small  charcoal  in  the  coal  house.  About  half 
an  hour  before  the  meal  take  the  ashes  out  of 
the  ashpan  and  lay  in  a  bed  of  charcoal.  Place 
a  few  live  coals  on  it,  and  cover  with  something 
— say  an  inverted  pan — to  cause  a  draft  to  the 
fire. 

Neat  and  easy  broiling  requires  it,  and  this  is 
the  way  that  is  practiced  in  the  places  where  it  is 
made  a  constant  business.  Have  always  ready  a 
little  flat  tin-bound  brush,  like  a  varnish  brush, 
but  a  very  cheap  kind,  in  a  tin  cup  with'either 
nice  drippmgs  or  melted  butter  in  it.  Lay  the 
meat  to  be  broiled  on  a  plate  and  slightly  brush 


16 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


over  both  sides.  Place  them  on  a  wire  broiler  or 
the  gridiron  and  cook  qtiickly  without  smoking  or 
burning  them.  A  little  coarse  salt  sprinkled  on 
the  charcoal  will  put  out  flames  and  make  the 
fire  clear.  Never  stick  a  fork  into  broiling  meat, 
at  least  not  in  the  lean  part  that  is  full  of  gravy. 
A  lamb  chop  or  cutlet  will  cook  in  about  the 
same  time  that  an  egg  will  boil  soft. 


I'or  tea  one  such  double  chop  is  usually  enough 
for  each  person,  though  it  takes  five  to  make  a 
restaurant  meal.  Cut  as  many  pear-shaped  thin 
shoes  of  bread  as  there  are  cutlets,  toast  and 
butter  them  and  set  them  upon  end  alternately 
with  the  cutlets,  one  toast  and  one  cutlet,  on  a 
large  dish,  and  serve  without  sauce,  except  ta- 
ble sauces,  and  pickles. 


41— Minced  Potatoes, 

Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  small,  and  season 
with  salt.  Spread  a  spoonful  of  drippings  or 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  place  the  minced  po- 
tatoes about  an  inch  deep.  Cook  on  top  of  the 
range  like  a  cake,  without  stirring.  Invert  a 
bowl  or  plate  over  the  potatoes,  let  them  brown 
nicely  and  slowly,  then  turn  over  on  to  the  plate, 
set  in  another  plate  and  serve  with  the  brown 
side  up. 

4a— Shrimp  Salad. 

Shred  one  large  head  of  lettuce  as  fine  as  pos- 
sible with  a  sharp  knife  on  a  board.  Pick  two 
dozen  large  shrimps  or  rinse  a  can  of  shrimps  in 
cold  water ;  put  them  in  a  bowl  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil  and  the  same  of  vinegar, 
and  shake  about  to  make  them  look  shining  and 
moist  Cover  a  flat  dish  with  the  shred  lettuce. 
Pile  the  shrimps  neatly  in  the  middle,  and 
spread  over  the  top,  or  at  least  across  it  so  as 
not  to  bide  the  shrimns,  some  mayonaise  dress- 
ing. Shrimps  that  are  so  shaken  up  with  oil  will 
generally  keep  the  shape  if  pressed  a  little  in  a 
deep  dish,  and  can  be  turned  out  in  form. 


43— German  Mayonaise. 

We  are  not  responsible  for  the  name.  That  is 
the  name  the  cooks  know  it  by  in  distinction 
from  French  mayonaise.  This  has  cold  white 
sauce  for  a  base  instead  of  yolk  of  eggs.  It  is 
handiest  to  make  when  there  is  "drawn  butter" 
or  butter  sauce,  or  cream  sauce  left  over  from  a 
dinner  dish.     If  from  the  beginning  take : 

44— Butter  Sauce. 

1  rounded  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
About  the  same  of  butter. 
3^  cupful  of  boiling  water  or  broth. 
Salt. 

Warm  the  butter  in  a  small,  deep  saucepan  and 
mix  the  dry  flour  with  it  while  on  the  fire.   When 


hot  and  bubbling  add  the  broth  a  little  at  time 
and  a  little  salt  and  let  boil  up  thick.  It  not  per- 
fectly smooth  it  must  be  strained.  Let  the  sauce 
get  cold. 

Now  we  have  a  thick,  white  sauce,  whether  left 
over  or  made  for  the  purpose.  The  salad  dress- 
ing is  made  this  way: 

Drop  half  a  raw  egg  into  the  cold  sauce  and 
stir  around  rapidly  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Add  a 
tablespoonful  of  salad  oil  and  stir  again,  then  a 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  then  the  rest  of  the  egg  and 
more  oil  and  vinegar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  made 
mustard  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  It  is  light  yel- 
low, just  thin  enough  to  spread  over  the  salad 
material  and  not  thin  enough  to  run.  Por  a 
larger  quantity  more  eggs,  oil  and  vinegar  can 
be  stirred  into  the  same   beginning  indefinitely 

46 — French  Kusks. 

1  pound  of  light  bread  dough. 
3  ounces  of  sugar. 

S  ounces  of  butter. 
Lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring. 

2  yolks  of  eggs. 
Small  half  cup  of  milk. 
Plour  to  make  it  soft  dough. 

These  rusks  are  more  of  a  simple  but  showy 
kind  of  warm  cake  than  they  are  breaa. 
Should  only  be  attempted  with  the  strongest 
yeast  or  the  lightest  dough,  because  to  be  really 
fine  and  not  sticky  they  must  be  more  than  light 
— spongy,  dry,  and  almost  in  strings  of  layers, 
like  French  loaves.  In  short,  to  make  rusks 
good  is  a  mark  of  skill  in  bread-making.  They 
can  be  made  much  richer  than  this  recipe — by 
skillful  cooks. 

If  for  afternoon  tea  take  the  dough  at  break- 
fast time  and  warm  it  and  the  butter,  sugar  and 
milk  (or  cream)  together  by  setting  in  a  pan  in  a 
warm  corner.  Then  mix  them  together  thor- 
oughly and  add  the  yolks  and  beat  up  thor- 
oughly, and  then  the  necessary  flour  to  make 
dough  of  it.  Knead  on  the  table  by  pressing  out 
and  folding  over.  (See  directions  for  French 
rolls.  No.  5. )  Set  the  dough  in  a  warm  place  for 
3  hours  to  rise.  Then  knead  it  the  second  time. 
Every  time  the  dough  is  doubled  over  on  itself 
the  edges  should  be  pressed  together  first.  When 
good  and  finished  it  looks  silky,  and  air  will  snap 
from  the  edges  when  pinched.  After  this  second 
kneading  the  dough  should  stand  an  nour  and 
then  be  made  into  shapes,  buns,  oblongs,  twists, 
or  split  rolls  notched  at  the  edges  with  a  knife. 
Rise  in  the  pans  an  hour  and  a  half  longer,  then 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  20  minutes.  When 
done  brush  over  while  hot  with  thick  syrup  of 
sugar  and  water  flavored  with  vanilla. 


The  directions  for  so  many  workings  of  the 
dough  may  seem  to  make  this  a  oomphcated 
process.     In  fact,  however,  each  kneading  takes 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


17 


no  longer  to  perform  than  it  does  to  write  about 
it.  Tlie  reason  for  it  is  that  the  oftener  dough  is 
kueaded,  m  moderation,  tlie  more  elastic  and 
better  it  becomes.  The  more  sugar  there  is  in 
it,  the  slower  the  dough  will  be  to  rise,  hence  the 
richer  sorts  are  the  harder  to  make  good. 


46— Cranberry  Sauce. 

Throw  a  quart  of  cranberries  into  a  pan  of 
cold  water  and  wash  and  pick  them  over.  Put 
them  in  a  bright  saucepan.  Spread  eight  ounces 
of  sugar  over  them,  pour  in  half  a  cupful  of 
water  and  simmer  at  the  side  of  the  range  with 
the  lid  on  for  about  half  an  hour.  Cranberries 
have  the  best  color  when  cooked  with  the  sugar 
in  them,  though  the  chemists  find  some  objec- 
tion through  an  alleged  change  in  the  sugar  and 
loss  of  sweetness.  There  is  nothing  that  burns 
on  the  bottom  quicker  than  cranberries.  They 
should  not  be  set  in  a  very  hot  place,  and  should 
never  be  stirred  till  taken  from  the  Are.  The 
syrup  that  can  be  poured  from  the  cranberries 
before  they  are  stirred  up  forms  the  brightest 
jelly  when  cold. 

Allowing  that  almost  anybody  can  make  a 
plain  soup,  it  is  no  less  true  that  to  make  a  clear 
consomme  or  broth  requires  skill.  The  plain 
bouillon  or  beef  broth  served  on  certain  occasions 
in  china  cups  will  serve  as  an  example  of  the 
way  the  clear  consommes  are  made,  this  being 
specially  of  beef,  while  other  kinds  may  be  of 
veal,  chicken,  etc. ,  and  have  various  additions, 
both  farinaceous  and  vegetable. 


MENU    NO.    VI.— RECEPTION. 


23^  quarts  of  soup  stock,  or  broth. 

2  or  0  pounds  of  lean  beef. 

S  whites  of  eggs  and  clean  shells. 

1  teaspoontul  of  black  pepper. 

2  teaspoonf  uls  of  salt. 

Chop  the  beef,  after  cutting  in  small  pieces,  in 
a  chopping  bowl  till  it  is  like  sausage  meat  Add 
the  salt  and  pepper,  put  it  in  a  saucepan,  pour  in 
the  broth,  stir  up  and  set  it  on  to  boil,  but  in  a 
place  where  it  will  heat  up  slowly,  and  as  it  boils 
skim  off  the  scum  that  will  rise  on  top.  It  is  like 
beef  tea,  and  may  be  liept  simmei'ing  an  hour  or 
two  if  the  time  allows.  Then  &train  it  through  a 
colander  first  to  get  out  the  meat,  and  through 
a  napkin  which  may  cover  the  clean  saucepan 
under  the  colander  to  clear  the  bouillon  of 
gravy. 

Set  the  bouillon  away  to  get  cold,  in  a  pan  of 
ice  water,  if  necessary  tohurry  it,  because  when 
cold  every  crumb  of  grease  can  be  taken  off  in 


an  instant  much  better  than  by  skimming  while 
hot 

The  remaining  operation  is  to  make  it  abso- 
lutely clear  and  bright 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  and  break  up  the 
shells  into  the  cold  bouillon  and  boil  it  again, 
stirring  sometimes  to  make  sure  that  the  white  of 
egg  is  well  cooked  and  coagulated,  and  when  it 
has  boiled  about  thirty  minutes  strain  it  through 
a  jelly  bag  or  a  napkin,  two  or  three  times. 
Keep  hot  till  served. 


Cooks  who  become  expert  through  constant 
practice  shorten  the  above  thorough  method  by 
mixing  the  white  of  eggs  with  the  raw  beef  and 
filtering  the  bouillon  once  for  all  straight  from 
the  beef  into  a  bowl.  This  makes  the  beef  use- 
less for  further  soup  stock  purposes,  however. 
In  either  case  the  bouillon  should  be  allowed  to 
become  cold  in  order  to  free  it  from  grease. 


Perhaps  the  neat  and  symmetrical  array  of  a 
dish  of  lamb  cutlets  trimmed  up  as  we  had  them 
last  week  first  set  somebody  wishing  that  chick- 
ens could  be  cut  up  the  same  way  and  led  to  imi- 
tations. 

The  croquette  of  minced  chicken  made  in 
cutlet  shape  with  a  bone  pushed  into  the  mince, 
is  only  a  sham,  but  real  cutlets  of  partridge, 
grouse  and  chicken  are  made  in  this  way. 


48- Chicken  Cutlets. 

Take  a  chicken  and  cut  off  the  two  legs  with 
all  the  meat  that  can  be  got  by  cutting  close  to 
the  carcass,  and  also  cut  off  the  wings  with  all 
the  breast  meat  attached.  What  we  have  t@  do 
is  to  get  four  pieces  off  each  chicken  that  shall 
have  a  bone  in  each  one  to  be  scraped  up  like  a 
outlet  bone,  and  plenty  of  meat  at  the  end  of  it, 
the  same  as  a  lamb  chop.  The  leg  cutlets  con- 
sist of  drumstick  and  second  joint;  the  others 
have  the  fillet  or  breast  and  the  wing  bone. 
Chop  off  the  knobby  ends.  The  bone  of  the 
second  joint  should  be  loosened  from  the  meat, 
all  the  meat  pushed  to  one  side  of  it,  and  the 
bone  pushed  through  a  hole  made  in  the  edge  of 
the  meat — all  to  make  it  look  like  a  lamb  chop — 
and  the  ends  of  all  the  bones  should  be  scraped 
clean  for  about  an  inch.  When  all  are  prepared 
parboil  by  dropping  the  cutlets  in  boiling  water 
or  broth  well  seasoned.  They  lose  their  shape 
if  not  so  managed.  When  they  have  boiled  five 
minutes  lay  them  flat  on  dishes  or  pans,  put  other 
dishes  on  top  and  a  heavy  weight  and  let  them 
get  quite  cold.  After  that  trim  and  shape  them 
neatly.  Dip  each  cutlet  in  a  little  beaten  egg 
and  water ;  then  in  cracker  meal,  and  fry  in  hot 
lard  in  a  frying-pan,  or  in  a  smaller  quantity  of 
butter,  much  the  same  as  the  sweetbreads  at 
No.  26. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


49— Fried  Parsley. 

One  of  the  moat  desirable  adjuncts  to  dishes 
like  fried  cutlets  when  they  are  not  served  with  a 
sauce. 

Heat  some  lard  in  the  potato  frier,  but  not  hot 
enough  to  smoke,  for  too  much  heat  takes  all  the 
color  out  of  parsley.  Put  the  parsley  in  the  wire 
basket  and  immerse  it  in  the  hot  lard  about  one 
minute,  when  it  should  be  crisp,  but  still  green. 
Drain  it  on  a  sheet  of  paper  and  set  for  a  minute 
in  the  open  oven. 


50— Potato  Croquettes  en  Petites  Boiiles. 

The  reason  why  the  ordinary  mashed  potatoes 
will  not  do  for  croquettes  is,  the  milk  or  water 
that  is  mixed  with  them  when  mashing,  when 
hot  makes  thetcroquette  melt  away  in  the  frying 
fat.     Take 

1  pound  of  pared  potatoes. 

1  ounce  of  outter. 

1  yolk  of  egg. 

Salt  and  pejjper. 

Flour  to  ball  up  with. 

Use  dry  and  mealy  potatoes.  Steam  or  boil 
well  done,  drain,  mash  and  mix  in  the  butter  and 
yolk,  and  season  to  taste.  No  milk  or  other 
liquid  to  be  added.  Make  up,  with  plenty  of 
flour  on  the  hands,  into  little  balls  not  larger 
than  walnuts.  Make  as  much  flour  stick  to  the 
croquettes  as  possible.  Put  them  into  the  wire 
basket  or  potato  frier  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard. 


There  is  probably  no  way  of  making  that  will 
prevent  potato  croquettes  from  breaking  open  in 
the  grease  if  cooked  long.  Fry  them  quickly, 
and  take  out  when  they  are  of  a  deep  yellow 
color.    Drain  on  a  sieve. 


The  chicken  cutlets,  the  parsley  and  the  potato 
croquettes  having  been  prepared  pile  the  cro- 
quettes in  the  middle  of  a  large  platter,  place  the 
cutlets  in  order  around  and  decorate  with  the 
fried  parsley. 


51— Lobster  Salad. 

Take  the  meat  of  one  large  lobster  and  cut  it 
as  near  as  may  be  in  large  dice  shapes,  or  at  least 
to  uniform  size,  and  keep  the  reddest  pieces  in  a 
dish  separate.  Chop  two  heads  of  celery.  Par- 
boil two  or  three  green  leaves  of  celery  to  make 
them  a  deeper  green  and  chop  them  with  the 
celery  likewise  to  color  the  whole. 

Spread  a  layer  of  the  celery  on  a  flat  dish  or 
platter,  then  the  lobster  ou  that  with  the  red 
pieces  around  the  edge,  where  they  will  show 
among  the  green,  another  layer  of  chopped 
celery  on  top,  level  over  the  top  surface  and  pour 
and  spread  upon  it  some  mayonaise  dressing  that 
is  almost   thin    enough    to   run.     The  dressing 


should  be  sufiSciently  seasoned  to  season  all  the 
rest 


No  single  book  could  contain  all  the  names  and 
variations  that  are  made  by  different  persons 
combining  a  few  well  known  compounds  in 
different  forms.  In  our  hotel  cook  book  the 
attempt  has  been  m'ade  to  familiarize  the 
reader  with  the  principal  compounds, 
pastes,  creams,  etc.,  used,  in  order  that  he 
may  at  once  understand  the  composition  of 
any  new  article  he  may  meet  with,  that  seeming 
to  be  a  much  more  thorough  plan  of  teaching 
than  a  gathering  of  all  the  possible  names  into  a 
bulky  but  uninteresting  mass  of  repetitions.  A 
similar  course  is  being  followed  in  this  series,  as 
may  be  shown  in  the  instance  following :  The 
puff  paste  now  to  be  made  is  the  same  that  is 
used  for  a  great  number  of  forms  of  pies  and 
fancy  pastries ;  the  pastry  cream  is  the  same  that 
is  used  to  fill  cream  puffs,  to  make  lemon  cream 
pies,  to  serve  as  sauce  to  fritters  and  to  spread 
between  layers  of  other  Itinds  of  cakes,  and  the 
glazing  is  but  candy  poured  very  thin,  and  often 
is  substituted  by  other  kinds  of  frosting,  each 
change  serving  to  give  the  article  a  new  name  at 
the  fine  bakery  or  in  the  French  menu. 


53 — Napoleon  Cake. 

Two  sheets  of  puff  paste  baked  in  shallow 
baking  pans.  Pastry  cream  spread  between  and 
sugar  glaze  over  the  top.  Cut  in  squares  and 
serve  on  plates. 

53-Putr  Paste. 

1  pound  of  cold  flour,  , 

15  ounces  of  cold  butter. 
1  cupful  of  ice-water. 

Get  quite  ready  to  mak-e  the  paste  before  you 
begin,  that  it  may  be  done  quickly.  It  will  not, 
perhaps,  be  light  and  good  if  allowed  to  stand 
long  in  a  warm  room.  Leave  out  a  handful 
of  flour  to  dust  with.  Make  a  hollow 
in  the  middle  of  the  rest  in  a  pan,  pour  in 
the  ice  water  and  mix  up  gradually  with  the 
fingers.  Turn  the  paste  on  the  table,  double 
and  press  a  little  to  make  it  smooth.  Roll  it  out 
to  half  an  inch  thickness,  pound  the  butter  with 
a  potato  masher  to  make  it  pliable,  drop  half  of 
it  in  lumps  all  over  the  sheet  of  paste,  sift  a  very 
little  flour  over,  press  down  the  lumps  of  butter, 
fold  over  in  three  and  turn  the  broad  side  to- 
ward you.  Roil  out  again,  drop  the  rest  of  tne 
butter  as  before,  fold  in  three  and  count  that 
one.  EoU  out  evenly  with  plenty  of  flour  to 
prevent  sticking,  fold  over  in  three  and  count 
that  two.  Do  the  same  four  times  more,  making 
six  folds  (beside  the  first  one  not  counted)  and 
it  is  ready  for  use;   but  let    it   stand    a    while. 

Roll  out  thin  sheets,  take  them  up  by  winding 
on  the  rolling-pm  and  spread  on  two  baking 
pans.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  eight  or  ten  minutes. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


10 


54— rastry  Cream. 

1  quart  of  millc. 
8  ounces  of  sugar.  - 
4  ouncea  of  flour. 
1  ounce  of  butter. 

LemoD  extract  to  flayor. 

Boil  the  milk  witii  a  little  of  the  sugar  iu  it  to 
prevent  burning.  Mix  tne  rest  of  the  sugar  and 
the  Hour  together  dry,  dredge  them  into  the  boil- 
ing milk,  beating  all  the  while,  and  let  cook  five 
minutes  Throw  in  the  butter  and  beat  the  eggs 
a  little  and  stir  in.  Put  the  lid  on  and  let  cook 
at  the  back  of  the  range  about  ten  minutes 
longer.    Flavor  when  nearly  cold. 


55— Plain  Sazar  Glaze. 

The  simplest  is  a  cupful  of  granulated  sugar 
and  a  quarter-cupful  of  water  boiled  in  a  tin  cup 
together  to  very  strong  syrup,  almost  candy. 
Stir  it  around  about  twelve  times  to  partly 
whiten  it,  and  pour  it  on  top  of  the  cake.  It  will 
set  when  cold,  if  boiled  enough.  Sugar  dissolved 
in  red  fruit  juice  boiling  on  the  fire  makes  glaze 
of  the  same  kin4  colored. 


Spread  the  pastry  cream  over  one  of  the  baked 
sheets  of  puff  paste,  place  the  other  on  top,  and 
pour  and  spread  the  sugar  glaze  upon  it.  Cut 
when  cold. 


50— Macaroon  Cake. 

Commonly  called  macaroni  cake.  A  sheet  of 
cake  with  macaroon  paste  baked  on  top  and  fruit 
jelly  in  spots.     Fur  the  cake  take 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

8  ounces  of  butter. 

6  eggs. 

1  small  cupful  of  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Flour  to  roll  out — about  3  pounds. 

Warm  the  butter  and  sugar  and  stir  them  to- 
KOther  to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs  two  at  a  time, 
then  the  milk,  then  the  powder  and  most  of  the 
flour.  Work  the  dough  on  the  table  by  pressing 
out  and  folding  it  until  it  can  be  rolled  out  to  a 
sheet.  EoU  it  thin,  as  if  for  cookies,  out  to  the 
size  of  your  baking  pans,  roll  up  the  piece  of 
dough  on  the  rolling-pin  and  unroll  it  on  the  pan, 
previously  well  greased.  Bake  very  light  col 
ored  and  not  quite  done,  because  it  has  to  be 
cooked  again. 


57— Macaroon  Paste. 

12  ounces  of  grated  cocoanuti 

8  ounces  of  powdered  sugar. 

2  whites  of  eggs. 

Little  lemon  extract. 

Stir  the  above  ingredients  together  in  a  bowl, 
the  sugar  and  whites  first  and  the  cocoauut 
added 

Place  the  paste,  either  with  a  teasooon  or  with 
ft  tube  and  forcing  sack,  m  \oa^  ccrrjt)  »pn>s3  tlin 


sheets  of  cake,  and  then  diagonally  across  to 
form  diamond-shaped  hollows.  The  cord  of 
macaro  jn  paste  need  be  no  thicker  than  a  pencil. 
Then  bake  in  a  sla.'k  oven  with  the  door  open 
till  top  is  brown.  Wiieii  cold  drop  spots  of  clear 
fruit  jelly  in  the  hullowa  between  tbe  ridges  of 
macaroon  naste. 


58-  .S.ida  Water  Jellius. 

1  quart  of  water  and  a  cupful  over. 

1}4  ounces  of  gelatine. 

8  ounces  of  sugar. 

1  large  or  3  small  lemons. 

1  teaspoonful  of  whole  mixed  spices. 

3  whites  of  egKS  and  clean  shells. 

Cooper's  sheet  gelatine  is  only  half  the  price 
of  Cox's,  and  is  every  whit  as  good  for  jellies, 
and  the  better  because  it  will  not  sink  and  burn. 

Shave  off  the  rindof  one  lemon  very  thin,  use 
the  juice  of  both,  careful  not  to  boil  any  lemon 
seeds  with  the  rest,  and  mix  these  and  all  the 
other  ingredients  named  with  the  cold  water. 
Set  on  to  boil  in  a  place  where  it  will  heat 
slowly,  giving  the  gelatins  tinio  to  dissolve,  and 
beat  the  mixture  with  a  spoon  occasionally. 


One  reason  why  people  have  trouble  in  making 
jelly  of  this  sort  is  the  diflieulty  of  gettiug  the 
white  of  egg  in  it  thoroughly  cooked,  as  it  floats 
on  top  in  the  form  of  scum.  If  not  cuoked  hard 
it  runs  through  the  strainer  with  the  jelly  and 
destroys  its  clearness  with  a  milky  appearance. 
Another  thing  is,  the  jolly  does  not  run  thiough 
a  jelly  bag  easily  unless  there  is  lemon  juice  or 
other  acid  in  it.  Table  je  lies  slould  be  as  cleir 
as  glass  and  as  rich  colored  or  they  are  failures. 

When  the  jelly  has  boiled  about  half  an  hour 
pour  it  through  a  flannel  jelly  hag,  made  funnel- 
shaped  and  suspended  by  strings,  and  repeat  the 
running  through  three  or  four  times.  When  all 
has  dripped  through  divide  it  in  cups,  flavor 
with  extracts,  color  delicately  with  burnt  sugar 
and  prepared  cochineal,  then  nearly  fill  slender 
wine-glasses  with  it  and  set  them  in  a  cold  place 
for  the  jelly  to  harden. 

Pour  one  glassful  of  jelly  into  a  soup  plats 
and  beat  it  with  a  lork,  beat  the  white  of  an  egg 
the  same  way,  mix  them  together  and  pile  the 
frothed  jelly  on  top  of  the  glasses  and  let  it  like- 
wise solidify  in  a  cold  place. 


69— White  Citron  Cake. 

H  ounces  of  granulated  sugar. 

13  ounces  of  butter. 

13  ounces  of  white  of  eggs. 

1  pound  of  flour. 

1  small  lemon. 

1.J  teacupful  of  milk. 

1  pound  of  candied  citron. 

Use  unoolored  dairy  butter.  Warm  the  sugar 
and  butter  slightly  and  stir  them  till  white 
W]  creamy,    Ailc!  tb?  esg  wbjt??  ft  Jittle  »t  ft 


20 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


time  and  after  that  the  flour.  Don't  beat  the 
white  of  the  eggs  before  mixing,  but  beat  the 
whole  mixture  thoroughl.y  aftyr  the  ilour  is  in. 
Then  mix  in  the  grated  rind  of  the  lemon  and 
the  juice,  and  last  of  all  the  railli. 

Cut  the  citron  in  tine  shreds,  mix  in,  and  bake 
the  cake  in  a  mold  lined  with  buttered  paper. 
It  is  not  one  of  the  hardest  cakes  to  bake,  but 
should  be  done  in  an  hour,  less  or  more,  accord- 
ing to  thickness. 

60— Frosting  for  Cakes. 

1  pound  of  fine  granulated  sugar. 

6  whites  of  eggs. 

Juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Flavoring. 

Have  the  ingredients  and  the  bowl  all  cold  and 
do  the  beating  in  a  cold  place.  Put  four  of  the 
whites  into  a  deep  bowl  holding  about  a  quart 
and  all  the  sugar  with  them,  and  beat  them  to- 
gether with  a  wooden  paddle  rapidly  for  about 
fifteen  minute.s.  Then  add  one  more  white  and 
beat  till  the  frosting  is  again  stiff  and  tenacious 
— abont  five  minutes  more.  Then  squeeze  in  a 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  which  whitens  and 
stiffens  the  icing,  and  add  flavoring.  At  last  put 
in  the  remaining  white  of  egg  and  beat  up  only  a 
little,  as  this  last  makes  the  frosting  glossy  and 
smooth  and  with  a  tendency  to  settle  down 
evenly  ou  the  cake. 

Trim  the  cake  a  little,  cover  the  hole  left  by  the 
mold  in  the  middle  with  a  patch  of  writing  paper, 
and  spread  and  smooth  the  frosting  over  the  top 
and  sides  with  a  knife.  Any  icing  left  over  may 
be  baked  on  pans  at  a  gentle  heat,  in  egg-shaped 
kisses. 


Gl— Oranjje  Ice. 

3  pints  of  water. 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

4,  5  or  6  oranges,  according  to  size. 

1  lemon,  juice  only,  if  tlie  oranges  are  sweet 

•t  whites  of  eggs. 

Make  a  thick  syrup  by  boiling  the  sugar  with 
very  little  water,  pull  two  or  tliree  of  the  oranges 
apart,  after  peeling,  by  the  natural  divisions,  and 
drop  the  pieces  into  the  boiling  syrup,  carefully 
excluding  the  seeds,  however. 

Grate  the  yellow  zest  of  the  remaining  oranges 
into  a  bowl  and  squeeze  in  the  juice;  then  pour 
the  syrup  from  the  scalded  slices  into  the  bowl, 
and  keep  the  slices  on  ice,  to  be  mixed  iu  at  last 

Add  the  water  and  lemon  juice  to  the  syrux^ 
in  the  bowl;  strain  into  a  freezer  and  freeze. 
When  nearly  frozen  whip  the  four  whites  firm; 
stir  them  in  and  beat  up  the  ice  till  it  looks  like 
cream  ;  cover  down  and  pack  with  more  ice  and 
salt,  and  when  the  ice  has  become  firm  enough 
mix  in  the  sugared  orange  slices  gently,  without 
b"eakin£r  them.     Serve  in  ice-cups,   glasses  or 


MENU    NO.   VII— GENTLEMEN'S    SUPPER. 


63— Broiled  Porter-house  Steak. 


The  cuts  show  two  porter-house  steaks ;  the 
upper  is  the  first  that  is  cut,  nearest  to  the  ribs 
of  beef,  the  lower  is  the  last  porter-house,  and 
has  a  piece  of  the  large  hip  bone.  The  steaks  cut 
beyond  that  are  the  large  sirloins.  The  small 
lower  portions  of  lean  on  the  left  are  slices  of  the 
tenderloin  or  fillet,  of  which  every  porter-house 
and  also  every  sirloin  steak  carries  a  part.  This 
tenderloin  is  thinnest  near  the  ribs  and  thickest 
in  the  middle  of  the  sirloin.  To  make  satis- 
factory sizes  of  beefsteak  of  it,  the  fillet  has  to 
be  out  entire  out  of  the  loin  of  beef,  sliced  two  or 
three  times  the  ordinary  thickness,  and  then  flat- 
tened and  spread  by  beating  with  the  side  of  the 
cleaver.  This,  it  is  to  be  understood,  is  for  a 
stylish  dish  of  tenderloin  steaks,  the  slice  of  fillet 
of  the  common  thickness,  or  less  than  an  inch, 
being  amply  suificient  for  each  person  for  ordin- 
ary meals.  The  porter-house  as  shown  in  the 
cuts  is,  however,  our  present  order,  and  is,  taking 
it  alt  together,  more  of  a  favorite  than  the  tender- 
loin itself. 

When  cut  very  long  and  very  fat  the  beefsteak 
may  be  shortened  and  trimmed  a  little,  but  it 
should  not  be  beaten  or  flattened  unless  when 
required  to  be  very  well  done.  Brush  over 
slightly  with  the  butter  brush  to  prevent  stick- 
ing to  the  bars.  Lay  it  on  the  sridiron  over  a 
clear  fire  (see  No.  40),  place  a  hot,  well-polished 
brick  on  top  and  let  the  steak  broil  about  three 
minutes.  Then  put  away  the  brick,  turn  the 
steak  over  without  sticking  a  fork  into  the  lean 
and  let  it  broil  from  three  to  six  minutes  longer, 
according  to'thickness,  and  briskness  of  the  fire. 
When  done  draw  it  on  to  a  hot  dish  without 
losing  the  natural  gravy  that  will  have  collected 
on  top,  and  dredge  with  mixed  salt  and  pepper. 

63— Fiesli  Mushrooms. 

For  an  accompaniment  to  broiled  meat  the 
canned  button  mushrooms  bear  no  comparison 
in  richness  with  the  large,  wide-open,  fresh 
mushrooms  from  the  fields     At  least  fifty  varie- 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


21 


ties  of  mushrooms  are  eaten  in  European  coun- 
tries, and  there  are  kinds  that  are  poisonous. 
We  Itnow  but  one  l:iud  and  take  no  riskg  on  the 
others.  The  trne  mushroom  is  of  a  deUoate  pink 
or  flesh  color  on  the  imder  side  when  it  tirst 
opens,  and  darkens  to  chocolate  color  and  then 
black,  according  to  the  time  it  continues  grow- 
iug. 

When  such  can  be  obtained  cut  off  most  of  the 
stem,  peel  the  top  of  the  mushroom,  shake 
about  in  cold  water  to  free  it  from  grit  or  sand 
and  fry  (saute)  enough  of  them  together  in 
a  little  butter  in  a  frying  pan  to  touch  aud 
cover  the  bottom  while  cooking.  They 
shrink  very  much,  but  give  out  a  gravy 
of  the  richest  description,  which  should 
not  be  allowed  to  dry  up  in  the  pan.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  "When  the  mushrooms  are 
done — in  three  or  four  minutes — place  them  on 
top  of  the  beefsteak  and  pour  the  gravy  and  but- 
ter over  likewise. 

Another  way,  most  suitable  when  the  mush- 
rooms are  to  form  a  dish  alone,  is  to  place  them 
top  downwards  on  the  wire  broiler,  dredge  with 
salt  and  pepper,  put  a  small  pii^e  of  butter  in 
each,  broil  and  serve  without  turning  over,  as 
soon  as  the  butter  is  melted. 


64 — Canned  Mushrooms  in  Sauce. 

About  half  a  can  with  two  beefsteaks.  Drain 
the  mushrooms  from  their  liquor  and  fry  (aau;e) 
them  in  a  small  frying  pan  with  a  little  butter. 
Add  pepper  and  salt.  When  they  have  acquii-ed 
a  slight  color  draw  them  to  one  side  of  the  pan, 
put  in  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  rub  it 
smooth  in  the  hot  butter,  still  keeping  the  pan 
over  the  fire,  and  when  the  flour  has  become 
slightly  browned  pour  in  the  mushroom  liquor 
gradually  and  a  few  spoonfuls  of  water.  Shake 
in  the  mushrooms,  let  all  boil  up,  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  a  quarter  of  a  lemon  and  pour  over  the 
beefsteak  in  the  dish. 


65— Frizzed  or  Shoestring  Potatoes. 

Raw  potatoes  cut  into  shreds  and  fried. 

The  cook  is  not  always  to  blame  for  the  poor 
appearance  of  fried  potatoes,  there  being  a  great 
difference  in  the  quality  of  the  potatoes  raw.  A 
watery,  waxy  potato  never  has  the  bright  ap- 
pearance and  crisp  floury  taste  when  fried  that  a 
dry  potato  has,  no  matter  how  carefully  the  fry- 
ing may  be  done.  Pare  your  potatoes,  slice 
them  thin  and  cut  in  shreds  anywhere  in 
thickness  from  a  shoestring  to  a  pencil,  only  all 
alike,  and  the  longer  the  better.  Throw  them 
into  hot  frying  fat  or  lard  and  letfry  three  or  four 
minutes. 


The  infallible  rule  to  know  when  fried  potatoes 
are  done  is  this:  When  first  thrown  into  the  fat 
they  sink,  when  done  they  rise  aud  float.  After 
ihsit   it  is  only  a    question  of    how  much  color 


when  they  should  be  taken  out.  Drain  well  in  a 
strainer.  Dredge  fine  salt  over  and  a  sprinkling 
of  chopped  parsley. 

The  porterhouse  steak  with  ranshrooms  being 
ready  on  a  large  hot  platter,  place  the  frizzed  po- 
tatoes around  it  on  the  same  dish  and  serve. 


66— Oyser  Omelet— For  Two  or  Three. 

1  .^  oysters. 
4  eggs. 

2  large  basting  spoonfuls  of  milk. 
Seasonings. 

Cook  the  oysters  rare  done  in  a  little  suacepan 
separately,  with  a  spoonful  of  milk,  scrap  of 
butter,  and  thickening  to  make  white  sauce  of 
the  liquor. 

Break  the  four  eggs  in  a  bowl,  put  in  a  spoon- 
ful of  milk  and  beat  with  the  wire  egg  whisk. 
Add  a  pinch  of  salt 

Shake  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  lard  about  in 
the  large  omelet  fi-ying  pan  and  before  it  gets 
very  hot  pour  in  the  omelet  and  let  it  cook  rather 
slowly. 

Properly  made  omelets  are  not  exactly  rolled 
up,  but  there  is  a  knack  to  be  learned  of  shaxjing 
them  in  the  pan  by  shaking  while  cooking  iuto 
one  side  of  it,  the  side  farthest  from  you,  while 
you  keep  the  handle  toward  you  raised  higher. 
Loosen  the  edges  with  a  knife  when  it  ia  nearly 
cooked  enough  to  shake. 

When  the  omelet  is  nearly  done  in  the  center 
place  the  oysters  with  a  spoon  in  the  hollow  mid- 
dle and  pull  over  the  further  edge  to  cover  them 
in.  Slide  on  to  the  dish,  smooth  side  up.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley  and  lemon. 


One  reason  of  omelets  and  all  fried  eggs  stick- 
ing to  the  frying  pan  is  allowing  the  pan  to  get 
too  hot.  They  seldom  stick  when  poured  into  a 
pan  that  is  only  kept  warm  till  wanted.  The 
pans  should  be  kept  for  no  other  purpose,  and 
be  rubbed  smooth  after  using,  if  not  bright 


67— Turkey  Sala<l. 

Take  the  remainder  of  a  cooked  turkey  or  naif 
a  boiled  turkey,  if  cooked  for  the  purpose,  pick 
all  the  meat  from  the  bones  aud  remove  the 
thick  fat  aud  skin,  cut  the  meat  into  long  shreds 
and  then  across,  making  the  smallest  possible 
dice  shapes.  Cnt  celery,  if  in  season,  the  same 
way,  about  two-thu'ds  as  much  celery  as  there 
is  turkey,  or  if  that  is  not  in  Reason  use  crisp 
lettuce  or  admixture  of  lettuce  andfinely  chopped 
white  cabbage,  and  add  celery  salt  or  extract  or 
celery  vinegar.  Mix  meat  and  vegetables  to- 
gether, season  slightly  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Pour  in  a  little  salad  oil — say  a  quarter  cupful, 
stir  about  and  then  stir  in  as  much  vinegar. 
Heap  and  smooth  over  the  salad  in  a  lai'ge 
platter — it  will  adhere  and  keep    shape   woi! — 


22 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


then  pom-  aucl    spreai 
iiiavonaiso. 


il    over  it  a   well-aeasnnecl      cheese  a  good  deal  whether  it  will  prove  satia- 
factorj'. 

1  I)..-.-   ™  •*-"'l  "■'^    addition  to  canapes  aii  fromage  ia 

'■  -     <•■  Bometimea  made  in  the  form  of  a  nicely-poaohed 

egg  on  top  of  each  canape,  in  the  hot  oheeae. 


G8-M!iy 

3  ra^y  yolica  of  eggs. 

J^  teacupful  of  olive  oil. 

About  half  as  much  vinegar  or  lemon  juice. 

A  level  teaspoonf  nl  of  salt. 

Same  of  made  muatard. 

Pinch  of  Ciyenue. 

Put  the  two  raw  yolka  in  a  pint  bnwl,  add  two 
tableapoonfuis  of  oil,  set  the  bowl  in  ice'water  or 
otherwise  make  it  cold,  and  beat  with  a  Dover 
egg-beater  about  half  a  minute.  Then  add  more 
oil  and  whip,  and  then  throw  in  the  salt,  and  on 
whipping  again  tho  mixture  will  at  once  thicken 
up,  looking  like  softened  butter.  Tnen  add  a 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  then  oil  and  so 
on  alternately  till  all  ia  in.  Add  the 
mustard  and  cayenne  for  seasoumg.  The 
best  mayonaise  is  made  .  with  lemon 
juice  instead  of  part  of  the  vinegar,  and  when  it 
will  not  thicken  as  desired  the  lemon  juice  in- 
variably corrects  the  trouble  aud  gives  the  dress- 
ing the  dciircd  coiiaistenoy.  It  should  not  be 
thin  enough  to  run,  l>ut  should  coat  over  the  pile 
of  salad  material  it  is  spread  upon. 


The  foregoing  shows  the  improved  and  quickest 
method  of  making  this  important  sauce  or  dress- 
ing; the  egg-beater  or  the  want  of  it  need  not, 
however,  be  an  oljstacle  in  tho  way,  for  simply 
stirring  around  in  Ihe  liow.l  with  a  wooden  .spoon 
18  the  way  moat  commonly  practiced. 


After  spreading  the  mayonaise  over  the  turkey 
salad,  ornament  with  quarters  of  hard-boiled 
eggs  or  with  chopped  yolka  and  parsley,  olives, 
cut  lemons  or  shapes  stamped  out  of  cooked 
beets. 

6D— ^%'^'lsll  Karebit— Canapes  au  Fromage. 

4  ounces  of  cheese. 

2  ounces  of  butter. 
Quarter  cupful  of  milk  or  ale. 

3  yolks  of  eggs. 

Little  cayenne  pepper  and  salt. 

4  thin  pieces  of  toast. 

Chop  the  cheese  small,  throw  it  and  the  butter 
into  a  little  saucepan  and  as  they  get  warm  mash 
them  together.  When  softened  add  the  yolks 
and  ale  and  pinch  of  cayenne  aud  salt.  Stir  till 
it  is  creamy,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  for  that  would 
apoil  it.  Place  tfie  slices  of  toast  on  a  dish,  pour 
the  creamed  cheese  upon  them  and  set  inside  the 
oven  about  two  minutes.  The  ale  only  heightens 
the  flavor,  and  some  prefer  to  use  milk. 


The  simplest  form  of  Welsh  rarebit  is  a  slice  of 
cheese  placed  on  a  slice  of  bread  and  baked  in 
the  oven,    li  depends  upon  t)ie  quiility  of  tho 


■JO— Macaroon  Tarts. 

Commonly  miscalled  macaroni  tarts.  Patty 
pans  lined  with  sweet  paste,  partly  filled  with 
almond  macaroon  mixture  aud  baked. 


71— Sweet  Tart  Pastn. 

S  ounces  of  ilour — a  pint. 

3  ounces  of  butter — }4  cupful 

1  tablespoonf  ul  of  powdered  sugar. 

1  egg.     Little  salt. 

Quarter  cupful  of  water. 

Bub  the  butter  into  the  flour  as  in  making 
short  paste,  add  the  egg,  sugar  and  salt  with  the 
water,  mix  and  knead  it  smooth.  EoU  out  very 
thin,  cut  out  pieces  and  line  the  patty  pans. 

73— -Almoiid  Macaroon  Mixture. 

8  ounces  of  granulated  sugar, 

4  whites  of  eggs. 

8  ounces  of  almonds. 

1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

Put  the  sugar  and  two  of  the  whites  in  a  deep 
bowl  together,  and  beat  with  a  wooden  paddle 
about  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  another  white 
and  beat  again,  then  the  lemon  juice  and  then 
the  last  white.  Crush  the  almonds  by  rolling 
them  with  the  rolling-pin  on  the  table.  They 
need  not  be  blanched  (freed  from  the  skins)  un- 
less so  preferred.  When  they  are  reduced  to 
meal  mix  them  with  the  contents  of  the  bowl. 
This  mixture,  as  well  as  cake  icing,  should  al- 
ways be  started  with  bowl  and  ingredients  all 
cold,  for  if  warm  they  cannot  be  beaten  to  the 
requisite  d.gree  of  firmness. 


The  patty  pane  or  gem  pans  being  already 
lined  with  the  tart  paste,  half  fill  with  the  maca- 
roon paste,  smooth  over  and  bake  in  a  very  slack 
oven.  The  baking  is  the  most  difficult  part,  for 
with  too  much  heat  the  macaroon  mixture  melts 
away  to  candy.  These  tarts,  when  right,  rise 
smooth  and  rounded  in  the  crusts,  and  are  partly 
hollow  underneath. 


73— Nesselrode  Ice  Cream. 

Glace  Nesselrode  or  iced  pudding.  A  frozen 
custard  made  of  pounded  chestnuts,  with  fruit 
and  flavorings : 

1  pound  of  large  chestnuts. 

1  pint  of  rich  boiled  custard. 

1  cup  of  sweet  cream, 

3  ou'.icos  of  citron. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


23 


2  ounces  of  sultana  raisins. 

2  ounces  of  stewed  pineapple. 

!'.<  cupful  of  marascliioo. 

1  teaspoonf  ul  of  vanilla  extract. 

Pinch  of  salt  in  the  chestnut  pulp. 

Slit  the  shells  of  the  chestnuts,  boil  them  half 
an  hour,  peel  clean,  and  pound  the  nuts  to  a 
paste,  and  rub  it  through  a  fine  sieve,  moisten- 
ing with  cream.  Then  mix  it  with  the  boiled 
custard.  Freeze  this  mixture,  and  when  firm 
whip  the  cup  of  cream,  and  stir  it  in  and  freeze 
again.  Then  add  the  citron  cut  in  shreds,  the 
stewed  or  candied  pineapple,  likewise  the  raisins, 
maraschino,  and  vanilla  e.ttract.  Beat  up  and 
freeze  again,  and  either  serve  in  ice  cream  plates 
out  of  the  freezer,  or  pack  the  cream  in  a  mold, 
and  when  well  frozen  send  to  table  whole,  turned 
out  of  the  mold  on  to  a  folded  napkin  on  a  dish. 


74— Pound  Cake. 

14  ounces  of  sugar. 

13  ounces  of  butter. 

10  eggs. 

1  pound  of  flour. 

Warm  the  butter  and  sugar  and  stir  them  to- 
gether to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs  two  at  a  time, 
beating  well,  then  the  flour  hy  degrees.  When 
all  the  flour  is  in  it  is  finished.  There  should  be 
no  baking  powder  nor  flavorings  in  pound  cake. 


75— Coffee. 

In  the  city  the  right  way  they  have  of  grinding 
coffee  makes  the  retail  grocery  merchants  greater 
correctors  of  the  bad  coffee  makers  than  all  the 
tirades  that  have  ever  been  written.  For  coffee 
should  be  ground  coarse,  about  like  oatmeal,  and 
then  when  boiled  it  clears  itself  naturally,  but 
most  people  who  grind  at  home  reduce  it  to  fine 
powder,  making  it  difficult  to  clarify.  The  idea 
is,  probably,  that  fine  grinding  insures  the  ex- 
traction of  all  the  strength  of  the  coffee,  but  the 
same  is  obtained  when  it  is  coarsely  ground,  for 
the  berry  is  porous  and  the  water  penetrates 
it  all. 

The  ease  with  which  coarse  ground  cofi'ee  can 
be  made  clear  by  only  allowing  it  to  stand  a  while 
after  a  minute  or  two  of  boiling,  acts  very  much 
against  the  adoption  of  any  of  the  newly-con- 
trived coffee  pots.  I  knew  of  a  gentlemen's  club 
once  whose  members,  above  everything,  were 
proud  of  the  excellence  of  their  coffee,  and  I 
found  their  cook  making  it  in  as  simple  a  man- 
ner as  the  Turks  did  at  the  Centennial  celebra- 
tion. He  boiled  the  coarsely  ground  coffee  in  a 
boiler  of  water,  set  it  off  the  fire  a  few  minutes, 
and  then  dipped  it  out  of  the  top  hy  cupfuls, 
without  touching  the  sediment.  That  was  not 
science  in  hia  case,  but  laziness,  mere  letting 
well  enough  alone,  and  he  had  to  waste  all  the 
coffee  at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel.     That  only 


shows  how  easy  it  is  to  have  coffee  clear  and  of 
fine  flavor. 

One  of  the  best  arrangements  is  the  urn  with  a 
muslin  bag  suspended  inside,  which  holds  the 
coffee  grounds,  the  coffee  being  drawn  off  and 
poured  into  the  sack  repeatedly  till  all  the 
strength  is  extracted.  A  coft'ee  pot  with  the 
same  inside  contrivance  is  defective,  because 
should  there,  after  all,  be  a  fine  sediment  at  the 
bottom  it  will  be  disturbed  every  time  the  coffee 
pot  is  tilted. 

The  rule  for  good  coffee  is  two  ounces  of  coffee 
to  a  quart  of  water — making  about  five  cups. 

Old  government  Java  is  commonly  considered 
the  best  kind;  a  mixture  of  Java  and  Rio  the 
most  serviceable.  Eio  coffee  is  the  cheapest, 
strongest,  and  by  many  preferred  to  the  other 
kinds. 

French  dripped  coffee  is  never  boiled,  but 
boiling  water  is  poured  over  tha  coarse  ground 
coffee  in  a  perforated  vessel  set  in  the  top  of  the 
coffee-pot.  Double  the  quantity  of  coffee  is  re- 
quired to  make  it  that  way. 

French  dripped  coffee  has  no  eggs  or  other  ar- 
ticles added  to  clear  it,  neither  has  Turkish  coffee, 
They  are  not  necessary.  If  let  alone  I  use  no 
eggs  for  such  a  purpose,  but  the  custom  to  the 
contrary  is  prevalent,  and  it  is  not  worth  con- 
tending against. 

Have  the  coffee  fresh  roasted  and  fresh  ground, 
pour  cold  water  to  it  in  a  bowl,  just  enough  to 
wet  it,  put  in  the  white  of  an  egg  and  stir  up, 
then  pour  it  to  hot  water  in  the  coffee-pot.  When 
it  has  boiled  a  minute  take  it  off  and  eitlier  pour 
the  whole  contents  into  the  strainer  in  the  urn  or 
else  put  in  hilf  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  let  it 
settle  in  the  pot. 

And  once  I  went  to.  a  restaurant  where  the 
coffee  in  former  times  had  been  most  excellent, 
but  now  it  was  detestable,  being  always  like  ink 
in  color  and  of  a  vile  cankerous  taste.  I  ad- 
vised throwing  away  the  urn,  w^hich  had  been  in 
use  night  and  day,  always  with  hot  coffee  in  it, 
for  over  two  years.  It  was  a  good-looking  affair 
outside,  but  inside  was  tin-corroded  and  black- 
ened. But  to  save  it  a  course  of  scouring  and 
intervals  of  dryness  and  new  ways  of  making  the 
coffee  were  instituted,  but  all  to  no  purpose,  and 
at  last,  from  sheer  necessity,  the  used-up  urn 
was  thrown  away,  and  a  new  one,  bright  and 
shining,  took  its  place,  and  once  more  there  was 
delicious  coffee.  People  who  find  coffee-making 
difficult,  and  think  there  must  be  a  secret  art  in 
it  that  they  have  never  found  out,  will  perhaps 
do  well  to  see  that  the  inside  of  the  much-used 
coffee-pot  or  urn  has  not  become  corroded  and 
iron-rusted  unawares.  There  are  strong  chemi-, 
cal  properties  in  coffee  that  make  it  necessary  to 
keep  it,  if  kept  at  all,  in  earthenware,  or  some- 
thing that  is  not  metal. 


24 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


lENU     NO.    VIII— BREAKFAST. 


76— Stewed  Chicken  With  Egs  Dumplinss. 

It  is  a  convenient  ouatom  that  prevails  of  call- 
ing every  fowl  a  chicken,  although  some  of  them 
could  not  be  any  tougner  by  any  other  name. 
Really  young  chickens  are  not  very  interesting, 
because  they  ca  n  be  so  easily  broiled  or  fried ; 
but  on  the  same  principle  that  an  angler  prizes 
most  the  kind  of  fish  that  it  is  the  hardest  to 
wrestle  with  when  caught,  we  should  accord  the 
greatest  consideration  to  the  very  mature  fowl 
and  measure  our  skill  by  our  success  in  making 
her  once  more  a  tender  chicken,  if  not  a  young  or 
small  one. 


■77- How  to  Cut  Up  a  Fowl. 

It  saves  a  good  deal  of  embarrassment  to  the 
person  who  must  serve  out  the  stewed  chicken  or 
pot-pie,  if  the  fowl  be  divided  in  proper  pieces 
before  cooking,  the  object  in  cutting  up  being  to 
make  every  piece  presentable.  For  this  reason 
the  proper  way  is  to  chop  it  apart,  neatly,  and 
with  clean  cuts  with  a  heavy  knife,  for  it  divided 
according  to  the  joints  some  portions  will  be  bare 
of  meat  and  might   as  well   have  been   kept  out 


First,  split  the  fowl  in  halves  lengthwise.  This 
can  be  done  by  cutting  down  the  middle  of  the 
back  with  a  sharp  kitchen  knife,  laying  the  fowl 
wide  open  and  chopping  through  the  breast  bone 
inside.  Lay  a  half  on  the  board  and  sever  the 
drumstick  by  chopping  through  the  joint.  Chop 
through  the  hip  joint,  or  a  little  on  the  meaty 
side  of  it,  and  slantwise,  taking  at  that  cut  the 
side  bone  and  tail  end,  all  sufficiently  covered 
with  meat,  a  little  derived  from  the  second  joint, 
and  then  cut  off  the  second  joint  by  chopping 
straight  across  the  fowl,  making  three  pieces  of 
equal  weight  of  that  quarter. 

Cut  off  the  two  small  joints  of  the  wing.  Chop 
off  the  main  joint  slantwise,  so  that  it  will  have 
attached  to  it  tne  piece  of  neck  bone  and  a  small 
portion  of  the  breast.  There  will  remain  nearly 
the  entire  breast,  which  should  be  chopped 
straight  across  and  make  two  pieces. 

Cut  up  the  other  half  of  the  fowl  in  the  same 
way.  It  is  just  like  skillful  carving  of  a  cooked 
fowl  in  results ;  a  proper  method  of  cutting  up 
gives  to  each  person  at  table  a  piece  of  meat  of 
equally  good  appearance,  and  not  to  one  all  the 
meat  and  to  the  next  a  dark-looking  piece  of 
bone,  already  stripped. 


The  fowl  having  been  out  up,  wash  the  pieces 
in  cold  water  with  care  to  free  them  from  any 
fragments  of  bone  left  by  the  chopping.  Put 
the  pieces  into   a  saucepan,    with   cold   water 


enough  to  cover  them — about  a  quart — and  boil 
with  the  lid  on  till  tender. 

A  very  young  chicken  may  be  done  in  15  or  20 
minutes.  One  a  year  old  takes  an  hour  or  more. 
But  some  that  are  of  mature  years,  if  fat,  are  as 
good  as  any  if  only  cooked  long  enough — prob- 
ably three  hours.  The  cook's  concern  is  only 
to  know  how  long  before  the  meal  to  commence 
the-oooking,  in  order  to  have  it  just  right,  for 
too  much  boiling  is  as  bad  as  too  little.  (See 
No.  33.)  

78— Stewing  and  Boiling  Fowls. 

Stewed  chicken  should  be  commenced  in  cold 
water,  as  above  directed,  the  liquor  becoming  the 
richer  for  it ;  but  when  a  fowl  is  boiled  whole  it 
is  desirable  to  have  it  juicy,  so  that  the  gravy 
will  run  out  of  it  when  cut,  and  for  that  reason 
it  should  he  dropped  into  water  (or  soup)  that  is 
already  boiling,  the  heat  of  the  water  imme- 
diately cooking  the  outside  prevents  the  juices 
oozing  out,  as  would  be  the  case  if  it  were  set  on 
cold  and  gradually  heated  to  the  boiling  pomt. 


While  the  chicken  is  stewing  throw  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  onion,  a  piece  of  pickled 
pork  as  big  as  an  egg,  out  into  shreds,  about  a 
level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  as  much  black 
pepper  and  a  cupful  of  milk.  Mix  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  with  a  little  water  and  stir 
that  in  to  thicken  it.  Then  make  the  egg 
dumplings,  cook  them  separately  if  you  care  to 
have  the  dish  look  attractive,  dish  up  the  chicken 
in  a  large  platter,  lay  tlie  dumplings  across  the 
top,  pour  in  what  gravy  the  dish  will  hold  and 
set  a  bowlful  on  the  table  beside. 


79— Ess:  OuinpUngs. 

1  heaping  cupful  of  flour. 

3  yolks  or  1  whole  egg. 

3  or  4  tabiespoonfuls  of  water, 

Little  salt. 

Have  the  flour  in  a  bowl  or  small  pan,  make  a 
hole  in  the  middle  and  throw  in  the  salt,  mix  the 
3  yolks  with  about  their  bulk  of  water  or  a  little 
more,  pour  into  the  flour  and  mix  up  to  smooth 
yellow  dough.  Roll  it  out  thin,  cut  in  ribbons 
and  drop  tliem  into  the  boiling  liquor — either  the 
chicken  stew  or  a  sauoenan  of  salted  water  ready 
for  the  purpose.  Keep  the  lid  on  and  cook  for 
about  ten  minutes. 


SO-Codlish  ISalls. 

8  ounces  of  raw  pared  potatoes. 
6  ounces  of  boneless  salt  codfish. 
I  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter,  melt«d. 
legg. 

Pinch  of  black  pepper. 
Flour  to  ball  up  with. 

Soak  the  codfish,  if    convenient,  a    little  wliile 
before    cooking.     Boil    it  about    lialf    an    h.iur. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


Pick  it  over  for  bones,  then  pound  it  in  a  pan 
"with  the  potato  masher.  iSoii  or  steam  the 
potatoes,  and  when  done  and  well  drained  of 
water  mash  them  with  the  fish,  add  the  butter, 
pepper  and  egg,  make  up  into  balls  either  rouud 
or  flattened,  with  plenty  of  flour  on  the  hands, 
drop  them  into  hot  frying  fat  and  fry  of  a  nice 
brown  color. 

When  the  common  large  salt  codfish  is  used 
chop  it  into  pieces  suitable  to  the  saucepan,  and. 
whether  steeped  in  water  first  or  not,  always 
pour  off  the  first  water  as  soon  as  it  boils  and  fill 
up  with  plenty  of  fresh.  This  takes  away  the 
rank  taste.  Good  codfish  balls  cannot  generally 
be  made  with  the  mashed  potatoes  left  from  din- 
ner because  of  the  moisture  in  them.  The  ar- 
ticle properly  made  is  rather  dry  and  has  a  per- 
ceptible flavor  of  good  black  pepper. 


81— Boston  Brown  Bread. 

1  pint  cupful  of  corn  meal— large. 

1  pint  of  boiling  water. 

}{  coffeecupful  of  black  molasses. 

;<f  pint  of  cold  water. 

1  small  teaspoonf ul  of  salt 

0  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

1  lieaping  pint  of  Graham  flour. 
1  heaping  pint  of  white  flour. 

Pour  the  boiling  water  into  the  corn  meal  iu  a 
pan  to  scald  it,  add  the  molasses,  then  the  rest  of 
the  ingredients,  the  powder  mixed  iu  the  flour. 
Beat  up  thoroughly.  It  makes  a  stiff  batter  or 
dough  too  soft  to  be  handled.  Put  it  into  a  tin 
or  iron  pail  having  a  tight  lid  and  steam  it  at 
least  four  hours.  It  may  then  be  turned  out  of 
the  pail  and  baked  about  fifteen  minutes. 


When  the  old-fashioned  black  molasses  cannot 
be  had,  a  little  burnt  sugar  coloring  ough  t  to  be 
added  to  make  the  bread  of  the  proper  color.  A 
pail  or  two  might  well  be  provided,  such  as  the 
bakers  use  to  bake  the  bread  in  as  well  as  steam 
it  They  are  made  to  hold  about  two  quarts,  in 
shape  like  a  piece  of  stovepipe,  but  halt  an  inch 
wider  at  the  top  than  at  the  bottom.  Russia  iron 
is  the  material.  Should  the  loaves  become  dis- 
colored in  the  pails,  prevent  it  by  lining  the  pails 
first  with  greased  manilla  paper. 


Instead  of  the  baking-powder  iu  the  brown- 
bread  recipe,  a  pint  of  buttermilk  can  be  used 
instead  of  that  much  water,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda  added. 

83-  Bread  Batter  Cakes. 

4  pressed  cupfuls  of  white  bread  crumbs. 

1  cupful  of  flour. 

2  cupfuls  of  buttermilk. 
1  egg ;  little  salt 

1  teaspoouful  of  soda. 

Remove  the  dark  crust  from  the  bread  before 
cutting  up.    Mince  it  small ;  pour  the  buttermil 


over  it  and  let  remain  a  while  to  soften ;  then  mix 
in  the  flour  and  egg  and  soda. 


If  no  buttermilk,  use  water  and  a  teaspoouful 
of  baking-powder;  but  bread-crumbs  mixed  up 
without  scalding  make  a  mixture  light  already, 
and  the  powder  is  of  little  consequence. 


83— Crullers  or  Fried  Calces. 

1  pound  or  quart  of  flour. 

3  small  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

1  teacupful  of  milk. 
Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

2  eggs ;  little  salt. 

Mix  the  powder  in  the  flour.  Melt  the  butter 
in  a  tin  cup  and  add  the  milk  to  it  and  the  sugar, 
eggs  and  salt.  Pour  this  fluid  mixture  into  the 
middle  of  the  flour,  ana  mix  up  like  biscuit. 
Knead  the  dough  on  the  table  a  little  by  pressing 
out  with  the  flat  hauas.  EoU  out,  cut  and  fry 
the  cakes  right  away.  Almost  any  shape  does 
for  these.  They  take  longer  to  get  done  than 
yeast  doughnuts,  and,  therefore,  should  be  rolled 
thin.  Cut  out  rings,  or  long  bands  and  twist 
them. 

When  making  fried  cakes  be  sure  that  the 
sugar  is  dissolved  in  the  liquid  the  flour  is  mixed 
with,  as  otherwise  they  will  be  greasy  when 
done.  Buttermilk  and  a  level  teaspoonful  of 
soda  may  be  used  instead  of  the  milk  and 
powder. 

84-Clarifyins  Fat  for  Fryinff. 

We  have  had  in  this  menu  two  articles  to  be 
fried  by  immersion  in  hot  fat.  The  codfish  balls 
might  be  fried  in  the  drippings  from  any  kind  of 
roast  meat  They  make  the  fat  they  are  fried  in 
unfit  almost  for  any  other  use.  Crullers  ought 
to  be  fried  in  fresh  lard,  and  they  do  not  injure 
it  much. 

But  it  is  necessary  that  the  cook  should  un- 
derstand how  to  prepare  the  fat  that  is  saved  in 
cooking  to  make  it  fit  for  these  purposes.  The 
fat  that  is  skimmed  from  gravies  or  taken  out  of 
the  roast  meat  pan,  or  off  the  soup  all  contains 
water  and  cannot  be  used  to  fry  with  until  the 
water  is  expelled  by  boiling.  And  when  the 
water  is  expelled,  if  there  has  been  much  of  it,  a 
sediment  like  gravy  will  be  found  slicking  on  the 
bottom,  and  the  grease  must  be  poured  from  that 
into  a  clean  saucepan  before  good  frying  can  be 
done  with  it  Much  of  the  bad  cooking  of  fish, 
and  the  difliculty  found  in  frying  breaded  cutlets 
is  attributable  to  the  want  of  knowledge  of  this 
apparently  trifling  matter.  Fat  to  have  articles 
fried  in  it  must  be  hotter  than  boiling  water,  so 
much  hotter  that  it  will  hiss  when  water  is 
dropped  into  it,  but  it  cannot  be  until  the  soup 
or  gravy  is  boiled  out.    So  when  breaded  articles 


26 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


or  doughnuts  are  dropped  in  they  simply  stew  in 
it,  the  breading  cornea  off  and  they  come  out 
after  a  long  time  soalied  full  of  grease  and 
smoky,  with  the  taste  of  the  sediment  on  the  bot- 
tom. Properly  fried  articles,  when  well  drained, 
have  no  more  grease  about  them  than  the  crust 
of  corn  bread.  "When  meat  is  roasted,  if  the  pan 
is  allowed  to  bake  after  the  meat  has  been  taken 
out  until  the  gravy  on  the  bottom  is  brown,  then 
the  fat  poured  off  is  already  clarified  and  ready 
for  use  in  frying. 


MENU     NO.    IX.— LUNCHEON. 


85— Articles  En  Caisse. 

The  first  dish  in  this  menu  requires  paper 
oases,  which  mav,  perhaps,  be  found  made  of  the 
proper  shape  of  rice  paper,  very  ornamental, 
aud  of  no  great  cost;  but  if  not,  they  can  be 
made  of  fine  cap,  like  writing  paper  not  ruled. 
The  cases  should  be  from  three  to  four  inches 
long,  one  to  one  and  a  half  inches  wide,  or  there- 
about, and  the  sides  only  half  an  inch  high.  It  is 
worth  while  to  give  the  details  here,  because  such 
cases,  but  of  varying  shapes,  are  needed  also  for 
game  souffles  and  for  biscuit  glaces. 

To  get  the  right  size  in  this  case  take  a  half 
sheet  of  ordinary  commercial  note  paper  and  cut 
off  one-third  of  its  width  a.nd  one-third  of  its 
length.  Fold  over  the  two  sides  of  the  remaining 
piece  of  paper  to  meet  down  the  middle  and  fold 
over  the  two  ends  to  the  same  width  as  the  sides ; 
cut  the  edges  serrated  all  around  and  bend  them 
outward  for  ornament;  clip  once  at  each  corner 
and  paste  the  case  box-like,  or,  rather,  tray-like, 
into  the  required  shape. 


86— Brook  Trout  in  Cases. 

Take  the  smallest  trout,  one  for  each  case  re- 
quired, dip  in  boiling  water  a  moment,  and  then 
pull  off  the  skin,  beginning  at  the  gills.  Chop  off 
the  head  aud  tail,  slit  down  the  back  with  a  pen- 
knife, and  take  out  the  bone  and  trail.  Wipe 
clean,  sijread  a  httle  of  the  fish  forcemeat  (No. 
87),  to  restore  the  plump  appearance  of  the  fish, 
double  it  m  natural  form  again,  and  place  it  in 
a  baking  pan  previously  brushed  over  with  soft- 
ened butter;  aud  so  continue  until  the  pan  is 
filled  with  the  required  number.  Mince  a  few 
mushrooms  and  sprinkle  over  the  fish,  aud  some 
parsley  and  a  very  little  minced  omon,  pepper 
and  salt.  Pour  in  broth  and  sherry  in  equal 
proportions,  enough  to  moisten  the  bottom  of  the 
pan,  set  the  pan  in  the  oven,  and  bake  about  fif- 
teen minutes,  basting  with  the  liquor  from  a  cor- 
ner of  the  pan  once  or  twice. 

Brush  tlio  paper  cases  inside  with  a  touch  of  the 
clear  part  of  melted  butter,  spread  a  verj' 
thin  layer  of  fish  forcemeat  oii   tl-e   bQlti'n?  ^rf 


each  one  by  means  of  two  spoons,  and  bake  them 
in  the  oven  with  the  door  partly  open  for  about 
ten  minutes.  Take  up  the  trout  with  a  broad 
knife  and  place  each  in  its  case.  Pour  a  little 
more  sherry  and  twice  as  much  brown  gravy  into 
the  fish  pan,  boil  up,  thicken  slightly  if  neces- 
sary, strain,  and  pour  a  spoonful  over  each  fish. 


87- Fisli  Forcemeat. 

8  or  10  ounces  of  whitefish,  raw. 
G  ounces  of  fine  bread  crumbs. 
4  ounces  of  butter. 
3  yolks  of  eggs. 

0  tablospoonfuls  of  milk. 

1  tablespoonf  ul  of  chopped  parsley. 
Lemon  Juice,  nutmeg,  pepper,  salt. 

See  that  the  fish  is  free  from  bones,  take  off 
the  skin,  cut  up  and  potind  the  fish  to  a  paste. 
Throw  in  the  other  ingredients  and  pound  them 
all  together  till  well  mixed  and  smooth.  Use  the 
nutmeg  very  sparingly.  Should  any  of  this 
forcemeat  be  left  over  from  its  first  purpose  it 
can  be  made  over  into  fish  croquettes. 


Brown  bread  and  butter  is  served  with  fish  in 
cases,  not  the  partly-sweetened  Boston  brown, 
but  brown  home-made  graham  bread. 


88- Bn^flish  Home-IVIade  Bread. 

3  pounds  of  sifted  graham  flour. 

1  quart  of  warm  water. 

}{  ounce  of  compressed  yeast. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

By  sifted  graham  is  meant  flour  with  the 
coarsest  bran  taken  out.  Commence  7  or  8  hours 
before  time  to  bake.  Dissolve  the  yeast  in  the 
water  aud  mix  up  half  the  flour  with  it,  that  is 
"setting  sponge."  Place  the  pan  in  a  warm  cor  • 
ner,  to  remain  4  hours.  Then  throw  in  the  salt, 
mix  up  to  stiff  dough,  scrape  out  the  pan  and 
knead  smooth.  Brush  over  the  pan  with  the 
least  possible  amount  of  melted  lard,  or  lard  and 
hot  water,  to  prevent  sticking,  put  in  the  lump 
of  dough  and  brash  it  over,  aud  let  rise  ii  hours 
more.  Then  knead,  make  into  loaves,  rise  again 
and  bake. 


Where  potato  yeast  is  used  instead  of  com- 
pressed, take  about  one-foturth  as  much  yeast  as 
water. 

89— Boned  Ducks  Witli  Jelly. 

Take  two  plump  tame  ducks  that  have  not  been 
drawn,  singe,  aud  pick  out  the  pinfeathers,  cut 
the  skin  down  the  whole  length  of  the  back  from 
end  to  end,  and  with  the  point  of  a  sharp  knife 
cut  the  meat  and  skin  from  the  bones  of  the  car- 
cass without  cutting  through.  Wheu  the  middle 
of  the  l.'Rc}!  lifvs  been  }ai4  b^re  and  the  hip  joints 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


27 


and  wing  joints  are  reached,  chop  through  them 
with  the  heavy  end  of  a  carving  Imife,  and  keep 
on  with  the  boning  knife  close  to  the  breast  bone 
till  all  the  meat  of  the  duck  is  taken  off  in  one 
piece.  Then  bone  part  way  down  the  legs  and 
wings,  chop  off  the  rest  and  tuck  the  meat  into 
the  carcass.  Wash  in  cold  water  and  dry  with  a 
cloth.  Lay  the  ducks,  skin  downwards,  on  the 
table  and  take  scraps  of  the  meat  from  the  thick 
parts  and  lay  over  the  thin,  that  it  may  out  all 
aJike  when  cooked. 

Next  dredge  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and 
epread  the  galantine  forcemeat  of  the  next  recipe 
evenly  over  them.  Pull  up  the  two  sides  to- 
gether in  the  natural  shape  of  the  ducks  before 
the  bones  were  taken  out.  Sew  ihem  up  with 
coarse  thread  or  twine,  roll  them  up  in  separate, 
clean  muslin  pudding  cloths,  pin  and  tie  the  ends 
and  boil  about  V4  or  3  hours. 

When  they  are  done  place  them  in  a  pan  or 
bowl  of  some  sort  that  will  give  them  a  good 
shape,  set  another  pan  on  top  and  a  heavy  weight 
on  that  and  leave  them  to  get  cold  in  the  cloths. 

When  they  are  to  be  used  take  off  the  wrap- 
pings, wipe  the  ducks  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  hot 
water,  trim  off  ragged  edges,  then  brush  them 
over  with  a  brush  dipped  in  melted  butter,  which, 
setting  on  the  cold  meat,  gives  it  a  smooth  and 
fat  appearance. 

The  boned  ducks  may  be  ornamented  and  set 
on  the  table  whole,  but  are  very  suitable  to  be 
sliced  and  placed  on  a  dish,  the  forcemeat  being 
quite  ornamental,  with  a  mottled  appearance,  ■ 
and  jelly  can  be  used  to  decorate  with  besides. 


90— Galantine  Stuffins  for  Ducks,  etc. 

2  ducks  or  fowls  boiled  tender. 
12  ounces  of  white  bread  crumbs. 
1  small  onion. 

3  hard  boiled  eggs. 

3  raw  eggs. 

}4  cupful  of  melted  poultry  fat 
1  cupful  of  meat  jelly. 

4  teaspoonf ul3  of  aromatic  salt,  or  pepper, 
salt  and  sage. 

Strip  the  meat  from  the  boiled  chickens  or 
ducks  when  cold — there  should  be  IJ^  pounds  of 
it — cut  it  in  very  small  dice  as  if  for  salad,  like- 
wise the  boiled  eggs  and  onion  and  bread 
crumbs.  Mix  all,  moisten  with  the  raw 
eggs  and  poultry  fat  or  butter,  chop  the 
meat  jelly  and  strew  it  over  the  forcemeat  after  it 
is  spread  in  the  boned  ducks.  It  remains  in 
them  and  sets  in  the  forcemeat.  It  is  not  essen- 
tial, however. 


Directions  for  making  aspic  jelly  for  cold  meat 
dishes  we  will  give  furthejr  on  wljieti  we  come  to 
boned  turkeys, 


91— Orange  Transparent  Tarts. 

4  ounces  of  sugar. 

4  ounces  of  best  fresh  butter. 

5  eggs. 

1  large  orange. 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  orange — only  the  thin 
yellow  part — into  a  deep  saucepan,  using  a  tin 
grater,  and  scraping  off  with  a  fork  what  ad- 
heres. Throw  in  the  sugar,  squeeze  in  the  juice, 
add  the  butter  and  'the  eggs  slightly  beaten. 
Stir  the  mixture  over  the  fire  till  it  becomes 
thick  and  ropy,  like  melted  cheese.  Then  take 
it  from  the  fire  and  beat  it  a  minute  with  the 
wire  egg-beater.  The  cooking  of  this  mixture  in 
the  saucepan  causes  it  to  remain  light  and  thick 
and  rounded  in  the  tarts,  instead  of  waxy,  as  it 
otherwise  would  do. 


Make  the  sweet  tart  paste,  No.  71,  and  line 
patty  pans  or  gem  pans  with  it,  half  till  witli 
orange  mixture  and  bake  on  the  bottom  of  a  very 
slack  oven.  Sometimes  it  is  necessary  to  have  n 
pan  on  the  shelf  above  to  ward  off  tiie  heat. 
The  quantity  of  the  recipe  should  make  ten  or 
twelve  tarts,  depending,  of  course,  upon  their 
size.  Powdered  sugar  miy  be  dredged  over 
when  cold. 


MENU     NO.  X— DINNER. 


There  are  some  immense  steam  stock  boilers  in 
use  in  the  large  establishments  of  this  city — in 
the  Tremont  House  and  Kinsley's — that  would 
surprise  some  people,  showing  what  importance 
is  attached  to  the  making  of  good  soup.  Two 
eighty-gallon  boilers  bubble  and  steam  at  once, 
reducing  meat  to  the  state  of  jelly,  extractin.g  the 
essence  of  poultry  and  game,  all  these  large 
amounts  to  be  dipped  up  at  last  by  spoonfuls  at 
the  table.  But  these  boilers  have  to  fill  a  great 
many  mouths,  and  if  we  examine  it  will  appear 
that  the  eighty-gallon  space  is  two-thirds  taken 
up  with  the  bones  and  frames  of  fowls  and 
shanks  of  veal,  and  there  will  only  be  a  small 
barrel  or  two  of  soup  after  all  when  it  is  drawn 
off  at  the  stock-boiler  faucets. 


93— ScotcU  Barle5  Soup. 

3  or  4  pints  of  souo  stock. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  barley. 

Turnip,  carrot,  onion,  parsley. 

A  piece  of  boiled  meat. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

When  there  is  choice  of  meat  this  soup  should 
be  made  with  mutton ;  or,  a  piece  ot  cold  mutton 
may  be  cut  up  in  it,  the  stock  having  been  made 
of  any  other  kind. 

Wash  the  barley  in  two  waters  and  boil  it  in 
plenty  of  water  for  about  two  hours,  then  strain 
away  the  blue  looking  liquor  from   it,    rinse   ip 


28 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


cold  water,  and  have  the  barley  ready  to  put  in 
the  soup  at  last. 

Cut  two  slices  of  turnip  and  half  as  much  car- 
rot and  onion  in  small  dice,  all  of  a  size,  and 
boil  them  in  the  soup  until  tender — about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Cut  the  meat^about  as 
much  as  there  was  of  turnips,  and  all  lean — the 
same  way  and  throw  in,  and  the  cooked  barley 
and  chopped  parsley.  Season  slightly.  No 
thickening.  This  is  a  cheap  soup,  of  good  ap- 
pearance in  the  plates,  and  is  a  favorite  with 
most  people. 

If  any  one  doubts  that  a  soup  can  be  of  no- 
ticeably good  appearance,  even  ornamental,  they 
are  reminded  how  often  the  novelists  describe 
magnificent  entertamments  where  many-colored 
soups  are  served  in  porcelain  cups — soups  white 
with  cream,  green  with  pounded  peas  or  spinach, 
red  with  lobster  coral,  amber,  clear,  and  so  forth, 
^nd  with  all  sorts  of  colored  additions  of  egg- 
balls  and  pastes  in  them,  and  will  sea  that  it  is 
worth  while  to  select  colored  vegetables  and  cut 
them  in  neat  shapes,  even  for  the  simple  Scotch 
broth. 

93— Baked  Macldnaw  Trout, 

Chop  off  the  head,  tail  and  fins  of  the  trout  and 
scrape  it  The  scales  are  few  and  small,  but  the 
outward  fishiness  of  the  skin  needs  scraping  off, 
nevertheless.  Push  the  point  of  a  knife  down 
and  sever  the  bone  at  the  places  where  the  poi-- 
tions  are  to  be  taken  off  after  cooking,  so  that  the 
fish  will  not  have  to  be  torn  to  pieces.  Cleanse 
and  wash  it. 

Spread  drippings,  or  the  fat  taken  off  the  top  of 
the  soup  boiler,  in  a  narrow  baking  pan,  strew 
in  a  little  salt  and  add  a  few  shreds  of  onion,  tur- 
nip and  carrot,  half  a  cupful  of  broth  and  a 
spoonful  or  two  of  vinegar  (or  half  a  lemon  out 
up),  and  set  the  fish  in  it  to  bake  about  half  an 
hour.  The  style  of  cooking  is  known  as  Gene- 
voise  and  the  obi'ect  is  to  get  the  fish  coated  and 
glazed  over  with  its  own  gravy,  that  mixes  with 
the  contents  of  the  nan,  and  that  means  frequent 
basting  until  there  is  no  liquor  left  in  to  baste 
with.  Take  up  the  fish,  pour  a  httle  sherry  wine 
and  water  into  the  pan,  let  it  boil  a  minute,  then 
thicken  shghtly  and  strain  the  gravy  and  pour  it 
under  the  fish. 

94— Mashpd  Potatoes 

Are  generally  served,  a  little  on  the  same  plate, 
with  baked  fish.  Being  such  a  common  and  easy 
article  it  is  often  the  most  neglected  and  goes  to 
table  dark  and  full  of  lumps,  when  it  ought  to  be 
as  smooth  as  if  pressed  through  a  sieve.  Butter 
and  milk  to  mash  with  are  good  additions  in  thoir 
way,  but  vigorous  pounding  of  the  potatoes  with 
a  little  salt  and  not  water  or  perhaps  the  clear  fat 
from  the  top  of  the  soup  will  make  very  fine 
mashed  potatoes  when  neither  of  those  luxuries 


can  be  afforded.  The  longer  the  mashing  is  con- 
tinued, provided  the  potato  is  kept  hot  at  the 
same  time,  the  whiter  it  becomes.  It  is  an  im- 
provement, to  serve  with  fish,  to  bake  the  mashed 
potato  in  a  pie  pan,  brushing  the  top  over  with 
milk  to  cause  it  to  brown  easily. 


95-Boile(l  Mutton. 

Where  selection  can  be  made  the  leg  of  mutton 
is  always  the  piece  that  is  boiled.  This,  with 
caper  sauce,  is  one  of  the  peculiarly  English  din- 
ner dishes,  and  it  is  a  cont;inual  source  of  dissat- 
isfaction with  English  tourists  that  American, 
boiled  mutton  is  always  well  done  while  they  ex- 
pect it  to  be  as  underdone  as  our  rare  roast  beef. 
i?or  well-done  boiled  mutton  a  shoulder,  or  even 
a  coarser  piece,  does  nearly  as  well.  Take  the 
bone  out  of  a  shoulder  of  mutton  by  cutting  close 
with  the  point  of  a  knife  until  the  meat  comes  otT 
all  in  one  piece.  Boll  it  up,  tie  round  with 
thread,  wash  in  cold  wator,  then  drop  it  in  the 
boiling  soup  stock  and  let  boil  an  hour. 


96— Caper  Sauce. 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

Same  weight  of  butter. 

y^  cupful  of  boiling  water. 

1  tablespoonful  of  capers  and  vinegar. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  tin  cup  over  the  fire  and 
stir  the  flour  into  it,  and  when  it  bubbles  up  add 
the  water  a  little  at  a  time.  To  have  it  very  nice 
a  teaspoonf  ul  of  cold  butter  should  be  beaten  In 
after  the  sauce  is  removed  from  the  fire.  After 
that  mix  in  the  caper  vinegar  and  a  pinch  of  salt 
Pour  a  spoonful  of  sauce  over  the  slice  of  meat 
and  shake  some  capers  over  with  a  teaspoon. 
Pickles  are  often  used  instead  of  capers,  chopped 
to  the  same  size. 


-Kentueky  <;o 


L  Puddin 


A  vegetable  side  dish,  not  sweet. 

1  pint  of  grated  green  corn— or  %  can. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

}4  teaspoonful  of  salt 

Little  whit«  pepper. 

0  yolks  of  eggs. 

1  cupful  of  milk. 

If  canned  corn  is  used,  mash  it  a  little ;  warm 
the  butter  and  stir  in,  and  the  eggs  mixed  with 
the  milk.  Bake  in  a  pan  same  as  a  custard,  only 
till  the  pudding  is  just  fairly  set  in  the  middle. 
Serve  instead  of  other  vegetables.  Itis  a  country 
treat 

98— Kadisli  Greens. 

Pick  over  the  radish  leaves,  cut  off  the  thickest 
stems,  and  let  lie  in  cold  water.  Have  a  pot  of 
water  ready  boiling,  throw  in  soda  the  size  of  a 
bean  and  then  put  in  the  greens,    Boil  half   an 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


29 


hour.     They  will  retain  their  ereen  color.     Drain 
well,  season  and  chop  them  short  in  the  pan. 


99-Boiled  Suet  Fuddinff. 

y^  pound  of  flour — a  pint. 

3  ounces  of  chopped  suet — 1  cup. 

4  ounces  of  sugar — ^^  cup. 

4  ounces  of  currants  or  raisins. 

y^  cupful  of  milk. 

1  sgg. 

Pinch  of  soda.     Salt. 

Rub  the  suet  into  the  flour  first.  Stir  up  thor- 
oughly with  all  the  other  ingredients.  Tie  up  in 
a  floured  pudding  cloth,  drop  into  boiling  water 
and  let  boil  four  hours. 


100— White  Sauce  for  l>iiddln£.s. 

1  level  cupful  of  powdered  sugar. 

J^  cupful  of  butter. 

3  whites  of  eggs. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy  or  flavoring. 

Take  half  the  sugar  and  stir  it  up  with  the 
softened  butter  to  a  cream,  as  if  making  cake. 
Have  the  whites  (that were  leftover  from  maliing 
corn  pudding)  quite  cold,  that  they  may  whip 
easilj^;  whip  to  a  firm  froth  and  stir  in  the  re- 
maining sugar.  Mix  this  and  the  butter  mixture 
together  lightly,  without  beating;  add  the  brandy 
and  keep  the  sauce  on  ice  till  wanted.  It  should 
be  made  late. 


101— Lemon  Pie. 

4  ounces  of  sugar — 3^  cupful. 
1  large  lemon. 

J^  pint  of  water — 1  cupful. 

1  rounded  tableapoonful  of  corn  starch. 
3  yolks,  or  1  or  2  eggs. 

Put  the  sugar  in  a  saucepan,  grate  into  it  the 
yellow  rind  and  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  the 
lemon  without  the  bitter  seeds.  Add  the  water 
and  sei  over  the  fire.  Mix  the  starch  with  a 
spoonful  of  water  and  add  it  as  soon  as  the 
lemon  syi'up  begins  to  boil.  Take  off  immediately 
and  add  the  eggs,  which  are  not  to  be  cooked  in 
it,  but  in  the  pies.  This  makes  1  or  2  pies,  ac- 
cording to  size. 

103— Plain  Pie  Paste. 

5  rounded  oupfuls  of  flour. 

3^  cupful  of  butter,  or  lard,  drippings,  or 
minced  suet. 

J^  cupful  of  cold  water. 

Little  salt 

Keep  out  a  dusting  of  flour.  Kub  the  shorten- 
ing into  the  other,  dry.  Pour  the  water  in  the 
middle,  aud  mix  up  soft.  Pat  it  out  smooth  on 
the  table,  roll  out  once  and  fold  over,  and  it  is 
ready  for  use. 

103— Alering:acD  I'or  X.eljion  Pies. 

3  whites  of  eggs. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar. 
Flavoring. 


Whip  the  whites  with  a  wire  egg  whisk.  They 
must  be  cold,  to  whip  up  easily.  Stir  in  the 
sugar  and  few  drops  of  flavoring.  Use  imme- 
diately. 

Meringue  or  frosting  falls  flat  and  worthless  on 
lemon  pies  and  other  ai'ticles  generally  through 
too  much  baking.  When  the  pies  are  nearly 
done  spread  the  meringue  upon  them  in  the  oven 
as  they  are  by  means  of  a  long  spoon.  The  hot 
surface  cooks  the  frosting  at  bottom  at  once,  and 
prevents  its  melting  away.  Let  remain  with  the 
oven  door  open  till  the  top  is  straw-colored. 


104— Corn  Starch  lilauc-Mang:e. 

1  pint  of  milk — 2  large  cups. 

3  ounces  of  sugar — 3  tablespoonfuls. 

1}.^  ounces  of  starch — 2  tablespoonfuls. 

Butter  size  of  a  cnerry. 

Flavoring  extract 

Pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  the  milk  with  the  sugar  in  it  Mix  the 
starch  in  a  cup  with  a  little  cold  milk  extra,  stir 
into  the  boiling  milk  and  let  it  cook  a  minute  or 
two.  Take  from  the  fire,  beat  in  the  butter  to 
whiten  it;  salt  and  flavor,  aud  put  immediately 
into  cups  or  other  moulds  previously  wetted  with 
cold  water. 

Turn  out  when  cold  and  serve  with  sweetened 
cream  or  diluted  fruit  ielly.  A  small  peach  leaf 
boiled  in  the  milk  gives  a  good  flavor,  or  a  piece 
of  stick  cinnamon,  or  orange  peel — the  thin- 
shaved  yellow  zest  only.  These,  of  course,  are 
in  place  of  the  extracts. 


105— ScotcU  Seed  Calse. 

Takes  5  hours'  time  to  make,  raise  and  bake, 
using  dough  to  begin  with. 

1  pound  of  light  bread  dough. 
6  ounces  of  sugar. 

G  ounces  of  butter. 

2  eggs. 

1  small  teaspoonful  of  carraway  seeds. 

4  ounces  of  flour. 

Weigh  out  the  dough  at  7  or  8  in  the  morning, 
set  it  with  the  butter  and  sugar  in  the  same  pan 
in  a  warm  place.  At  about  9  work  all  together 
and  beat  in  the  eggs,  and  add  the  seeds.  Give  it 
another  half  hour  lo  become  smooth,  then  add 
the  flour  and  give  the  whole  .5  minutes'  beating. 
It  makes  a  stiff  batter — not  dough.  Let  it  rise  in 
the  pan  about  two  hours;  then  beat  again.  Put 
it  in  a  buttered  cake  mould.  Bise  about  an 
hour.    Bake  as  you  would  bread 


106— Corned   Beef   Brine. 

6  gallons  of  water— nearly  3  pailfuls. 

3  to  6  ounces  of  saltpeter,  in  large  crystals. 

1  pint  of  molasses  or  sugar. 

10  pounds  of  coarse  salt 

Boil  the  above  all  together  and  skim  while 
it  is  boiling.  Pour  it  into  two  stone  jars  or  a 
keg  or  barrel.    The  jars  are  best  in  places  where 


so 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


there  are  pieces  of  beef  unsuitable  for  roasting, 
to  be  rolled  up  and  tied  in  shape  and  dropped  in 
every  day,  one  jar  to  receive  the  fresh  additions 
and  the  other  to  use  out  of  that  which  is  suffi- 
ciently corned. 

For  this  use  the  larger  quantity  of  saltpeter  is 
needed.  Beef  dropped  in  this  pickle  will  be 
ready  for  use  iu  a  week. 

But  wheu  a  quarter  of  beet  is  to  be  cut  up  and 
put  down  iu  brine  to  remain  in  it  a  very  long 
time,  3  or  4  ounces  of  saltpeter  is  sufficient  For 
the  saltpeter  makes  the  red  color,,  and  we  do  not 
want  the  sliced  corned  beef  on  our  New  England 
boiled  dinner  to  look  as  red  as  the  beets.  The 
barrel  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  cellar.  Put 
a  board  on  top  of  the  meat  and  a  rock  upon  that. 
Keep  covered. 

107— Potato  Yeast. 

6  or  8  potatoes. 
1  handful  of  hops. 
1  pint  cupful  of  flour. 

1  tablespoouful  of  sugar. 

2  dry  yeast  cakes  to  start  it,  or  a  cupful  of 
yeast  from  the  baker's. 

Pare  the  potatoes  and  boil  them  in  plenty  of 
water,  and  tie  the  hops  in  a  piece  of  mosquito 
bar  and  boil  with  them.  Have  the  flour  in  a  pan, 
pour  the  boiling  potatoes  and  water  to  it  and 
mash  all  together.  Let  it  cool,  or  add  cold  water 
or  ice.  When  no  more  than  milk- warm  strain 
through  a  sieve,  mix  iu  the  sugar  and  the  yeast 
cakes  or  yeast,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  corner 
in  a  jar  to  ferment  for  twenty-four  hours. 


Yeast  of  this  sort  will  not  turn  sour  so  soon 
if  the  flour  is  well  scalded  as  above  directed. 
Sugar  makes  it  stronger  than  it  would  be  with- 
out This  having  been  started  witk  dry  yeast 
cakes  will  do  to  start  the  next  making  without 
using  yeast  cakes  agaiiL  Salt  is  not  needed  in 
yeast,  but  it  seems  to  do  no  harm.  The  very 
strongest,  sweetest  and  best  yeast  can  only  be 
made  by  starting  the  fermentation  in  it  with 
bakers'  stock  yeast,  which  sometimes  can  be 
obtained  of  them.  We  will  return  to  this  matter 
at  another  time.  Yeast  will  keep  good  in  cold 
weather  two  or  three  weeks  if  free  from  sour- 
ness at  the  start. 

lOS— Dry  Yeast  Cake.s. 

Take  a  quart  of  potato  yeast,  add  a  spoonful 
of  sugar  to  it  and  stir  in  a  quart  of  flour.  Wheu 
it  has  well  risen  in  the  pan  add  a  quart  of  meal, 
or  what  will  make  dough  of  it  all;  press  out, 
roll,  cut  out  like  biscuits  and  dry  as  quickly  as 
possible.  Hop  yeast  cakes  are  the  same  thing 
made  with  stock  yeast  instead  of  potato. 


109— Cream  Cheese. 

Take  a  quart  of  cream  that  has  become  sour 
and  thick,  mix  iu  a  tablespoonfnl  of  salt  and  pour 
into  it  a  piece  of  thin  muslin  (butter  wrapping) 


placed  in  a  sieve  or  basket  bottom.  Leave  it  in 
the  milk  house  or  other  cool  place  three  days,  to 
drain  and  ripen,  pouring  away  the  whey  from 
the  dish  it  stands  on  every  day.  Lift  the  cheese 
out  by  taking  hold  of  the  corners  of  the  cloth; 
invert  it  on  to  a  plate.  These  are  sometimes  in- 
verted on  to  a  large  cabbage  leaf  on  the  second 
day  and  taken  to  market  on  the  leaf  the  next  day 
by  those  who  make  them  for  sale. 


110— Sour  Milk  Cheese. 

Set  a  pan  of  clabbered  milk  on  the  stove  when 
there  is  not  much  fire,  and  let  it  heat  slowly  with- 
out burning  on  the  bottom.  When  it  shows 
signs  of  boiling  it  should  be  taken  off,  as  actual 
boiling  makes  the  curd  tough.  Pour  it  into  a 
piece  of  muslin,  tie  and  hang  on  a  nail  to  drip 
till  next  day.  Chop  up  the  ball  of  curd  and  mix 
with  salt,  pepper  and  cream  to  taste,  or  cream  or 
sweet  milk  and  sugar. 


Ill— Pickled  Nasturtium  Seeds. 

Substitute  for  capers  and  good  in  a  jar  of  mixed 
picklea. 

Gather  the  green  seed-pods  daily  and  throw 
them  into  brine  to  keep  till  there  is  enough. 
Wash  in  freah  water;  fill  pickle  bottles  with 
them ;  pour  in  boiling  vinegar  enough  to  cover 
them;  cork  when  cold,  and  seal  with  wax.  They 
improve  with  keeping.  Any  fence-corner  does 
for  nasturtium  flowers  and  seeds. 

113— Pickled  Radish  Pods. 

Pick  off  the  green  seed-pods  of  radishes  while 
they  are  tender  and  throw  them  into  a  jar  of  salt 
and  water.  When  you  have  enough  drain  the 
salt  and  water  from  them,  boil  it  and  pour  it  hot 
upon  the  nods ;  cover  down,  let  remain  till  cold, 
then  boil  and  pour  it  over  the  pods  again,  and 
after  that  twice  more ;  then  drain  them  dry  and 
put  them  back  in  the  jar. 

Boil  enough  good  vinegar  to  cover  the  pods 
with  a  small  piece  of  race  ginger  and  some  pep- 
per-corns in  it;  pour  it  hot  over  the  pods  and  let 
stand  till  cold.  Boil  and  repeat  twice  more.  Tie 
down  when  cold  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 


113— Fickletl  Sweet  Corn  Ears. 

Take  the  "iiubbins"  of  early  corn  where  there 
are  too  many  forming  on  the  stalk,  while  very 
small  and  tender.  Trim  neatly,  and  boil  them  H 
minutes  in  water  slightly  salted.  Drain  and  put 
them  in  a  jar.  Boil  good  white  vinegar  enough 
to  cover  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the  corn 
and  let  it  remain  so  until  next  day.  Then  boil 
the  vinegar  again,  adding  a  little  salt;  fill  up  the 
jar  with  it  when  partially  cold.  Cork  the  jar 
and  seal  it. 


114— Pickled  Celery  Roots. 

Save  the  solid  white  roots  of  celery,  that  are 
usually  thrown  away,  trim  and  cut  them  in  thick 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


31 


slices.  Boil  them  in  salted  water  about  ten  min- 
utes, drain,  and  put  them  into  a  jar. 

Boil  vinegar  enough  to  cover  them,  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  whole  pepper-corns  in  it  and 
pour  it  to  the  celerj'.  After  stindiug  a  day  drain 
off  the  vinegar,  mix  mustard  with  it  and  cayenne, 
and  pour  it  back  intj  the  jar. 

This  has  some  resemblance  to  chow-chow,  and 
other  kinds  of  pickles  can  be  added.  Cork  down 
and  seal  the  jar. 

115-PickIe<l  Carrots. 

Take  small  carrots,  such  as  first 
come  to  market  in  bunches  in  sum- 
mer. Scald  them  and  rub  and  wash 
off  the  skin.  Parboil  them  in  salted  water,  drain, 
and  put  them  in  a  jar.  Boil  vinegar  enough  to 
cover  them,  pour  it  in  and  let  remain  so  twenty- 
four  hours.  Then  drain  off  the  vinegar  and  boil 
it  again.  Put  one  bay  leaf  and  tliree  or  four 
cloves  in  witti  the  carrots,  add  a  httle  salt  to  the 
boiling  vinegar  and  pour  it  to  the  carrots  again. 
Cork  down  the  jar  when  nearly  cold  and  seal  it. 


These  pickled  young  carrots  are  as  good  as 
pickled  beets,  care  being  taken  not  to  get  them 
cooked  soft  when  parboiling  them,  and  they  add 
another  color  and  ornament  to  the  salad  dishes 
and  supper  table. 

116-Pickled  Beets. 

They  are  so  called  when  only  sliced  cooked 
beets  put  into  vinegar  as  wanted.  The  French, 
however,  cut  them  in  fancy  shapes  and  add  ilav- 
ormgB  to  the  vinegar. 

Having  cooked  the  beets  a  longer  or  shorter 
time,  according  to  the  size  and  kind,  cut  them 
into  pieces  of  even  size.  Boil  vinegar  enough  to 
cover  them  in  the  jar,  with  a  blade  of  mace,  a 
piece  of  ginger  and  a  piece  of  horseradish ;  pour 
it  boiling  hot  to  the  sliced  beets,  and  cork  down 
when  cold.  If  to  be  kept  long,  boil  the  vinegar 
again  in  a  week,  pour  it  to  the  beets,  cork  when 
cold,  and  seaL  The  bottles  or  glass  jars  should 
be  heated  gradually  by  setting  them  in  a  pan  of 
very  warm  water  to  prevent  breaking. 


It  IS  customary  to  say  when  giving  directions 
for  making  pickles,  because  so  many  have  said 
it,  that  nothing  but  the  best  cider  vinegar  should 
be  used.  In  spite  of  that,  however,  the  great 
firms  that  put  up  goods  for  the  trade  find  that 
the  keeping  quality  is  very  uncertain  of  pickles 
put  up  in  ihat  Kind  of  vinegar,  and  they  use  a 
colorless  vinegar  that  is  made  by  distillation  and 
other  processes  from  corn  and  barley,  the  same 
as  alcohol  is.  As  it  leaves  the  apparatus  where 
it  is  made  this  vinegar  is  strong  enough  to  dis- 
solve many  substances,  and  it  has  to  be  reduced 
considerably.  As  all  true  vinegar  is  the  result 
of  alcoholic  fermentation,  which  changes  to 
acetic  fermentation,  the  probabilities  are  that  this 
highwine  vinegar  is  as  wholesome  as  vinegar  of 


any  other  sort  There  is,  however,  a  spurious 
vinegar,  which  is  no  better  than  a  slow  poison, 
which  is  cheaply  made  and  sold  cheap,  being 
nothing  but  a  mixture  of  sulphuric  acid  with 
water.  Such  "vinegar"  will  "eat  up"  the  pickles 
made  with  it 

Cider  vinegar  is  the  best,  with  the  allowance 
made  for  its  uncertainty  mentioned  above.  Any 
kind  of  wine  will  cha,nge  to  vinegar  in  the  course 
of  time  it  left  with  the  bung  out  of  the  barrel  so 
that  the  air  can  reach  it. 

A  cheap  vinegar  is  made  at  the  factories  by 
letting  fermented  liquor,  such  as  sugar  and 
water,  trickle  slowly  through  a  cage  of  wood 
shavhigs  two  or  three  stories  high.  The  expos- 
ure to  the  atmosphere  changes  the  vinous  fer- 
mentation to  acetic  quickly.  By  the  following 
method  the  change  requires  about  six  months 
before  strong  vinegar  is  made.  The  vinegar  thus 
produced  is  good  for  most  household  purposes. 

IIT— Home-Made  Vinegar. 

14  pounds  of  the  coarsest  brown  sugar. 

10  gallons  of  water. 

1  cupful  of  brewers'  yeast  or  bakers'  stock. 

Boil  the  sugar  with  three  pailfuls  of  the  water 
and  skim  while  boiling.  Take  it  off  the  tire  and 
pour  in  a  pailful  of  cold  water.  Strain  it  into  a 
ten-gallon  keg  and  put  in  some  small  pieces  of 
toast  spread  with  the  yeast,  or  a  hop  yeast  cake 
will  do.  Stir  every  day  -for  a  week,  then  tack 
a  piece  of  gauze  over  the  bunghole,  set  the  keg 
where  the  sun  will  shine  on  it,  and  let  it  remain 
six  months,  by  which  time,  if  made  inithe  spring 
of  the  year,  it  will  be  good  vinegar.  It  shortens 
the  time  of  standing  if  a  vinegar  plant  or 
"mother"  from  a  former  keg  of  vinegar  can  be 
had  to  put  in  it 


Bay  leaf  for  flavoring  is  among  soups  and 
meats  what  vanilla  is  among  sweets.  Skillfully 
used  it  gives  that  flavor  of  French  cookery  that 
is  recognized  as  something  different  from  tlie 
ordinary  home-made  article,  even  by  those  who 
cannot  tell  wherein  the  difference  consists.  Of 
course  there  are  many  others,  just  as  there  are 
other  flavors  for  ice  cream  besides  vanilla;  we 
speak  of  its  relative  importance  to  advise  a  par- 
ticular discretion  in  its  use.  One  large  bay  leaf 
will  flavor  two  gallons  of  soup,  and  only  a  small 
piece  is  wanted  in  soup  for  a  family  dinner. 


118— Consomme  Royal. 

We  have  no  word  in  English  for  consomme 
but  broth,  and  that  is  not  an  equivalent,  but  only 
a  substitute.  French  cooks  understand  by  con- 
somme a  clear  soup  as  rich  as  melted  jelly. 
Consomme  royal  is  of  the  color  of  brandy,  with 
little  egg  custards  floating  in  it. 

Simmer  a  large  fowl  and  two  or  more  shanks 
of  veal  in  a  gallon  of  water  for  three  or  four 
hours,  and  while  it  is  cooking  add  the  vegetables 
and  seasonings.      These    should   be    the  usual 


32 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


soup  bunch  (without  parsuipa  or  green  onion 
tops,  however),  together  with  a  stalk  of  celery, 
half  a  bay  leaf,  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  bruised  pepper- 
corns and  a  sprig  of  green  thyme  or  marjoram. 
When  it  has  boiled  long  enough  strain  the 
broth  into  a  saucepan. 


Chop  a  pound  of  lean  beef  fine,  mix  with  it  two 
whites  of  eggs  and  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Then 
pour  the  broth  to  the  beef,  stir  up  and  boil  again. 
Strain  through  a  napkin  or  jelly  bag,  season 
with  salt,  color  with  a  teaspoonful  of  dissolved 
burnt  sugar  and  remove  every  particle  of 
grease. 

To  make  the  floating  custards  take  three  or 
four  yolks  of  eggs,  raw,  and  mix  with  them  a 
spoonful  of  the  consomme.  Pour  into  a  slightly 
buttered  saucer  and  steam  it  until  done — 10  min- 
utes. Cut  the  custard  in  diamond  shapes  and 
drop  three  or  four  in  each  soup  plate. 


Where  it  is  not  necessary  to  be  extremely  par- 
ticular good  clear  soup  can  be  obtained  by 
letting  the  soup-stock  get  cold  in  a  jar  and 
after  taking  off  the  fat,  pom-ing  it  off  without 
disturbing  the  sediment  Strain  through  a  nap- 
kin, make  hot  and  add  the  spoonful  of  coloring, 
and  salt  as  before. 


119— sliced   Tomatoes. 

Should  have  pieces  of  ice  scattered  on  top  in 
the  dishes.  Salad  dressing  and  oil  should  be 
ready  on  the  table. 


130— Broiled  Shad— Maitre  d'Hotel. 

It  looks  best  if  placed  on  the  dish  in  one  piece, 
split  open  down  the  back.  It  may  be  necessary 
in  most  places,  however,  to  divide  it  before 
cooking. 

Scale  the  fish ;  out  off  the  fins,  head  and  tail ; 
split  it  down  the  back  and  take  out  the  back- 
bone. Wash,  and  dry  it  on  a  cloth.  Brush  over 
slightly  with  butter  or  bacon  fat,  and  broil  it  in 
the  wire  toaster.  It  will  take  about  ten  minutes, 
or  fifteen  if  a  large  one.  It  should  be  moistened 
with  a  touch  of  the  butter  brush  while  cooking, 
to  prevent  blistering  and  sticking  to  the  wires. 
Sprinkle  with  salt.  Dish  on  a  hot  platter,  or  in- 
dividually in  pieces  on  small  fish-plates,  with  a 
slice  of  cold  maitre  d'hotel  butter  on  the  top  of 
each  and  a  spoonful  of  French  fried  potatoes. 


131— Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter  or  Cold  Sauce. 

4  ounces  of  fresh  butter. 

1  lemon — juice  only. 

1  tablespooiiful  of  chopped  parsley. 

A  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Soften  the  butter  by  warming  it  a  little.  In 
that  condition  it  will  absorb  liquids  added  grad- 
ually. Stir  in  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  the  pars- 
ley and  cayenne.  Set  on  ice.  Serve  slices  on 
hot  broiled  or  fried  fish. 


133-Freiich  Fried  Potatoes. 

Cut  raw  potatoes  in  fluted  strips  with  a  Saba  tier 
scollop  knife  and  try  them  light-colored  in  hot 
lard. 


133— Roast  Ham  and  Spinach. 

The  thick  end  of  a  ham  sawed  across  at  the 
bone  where  the  choice  slices  end  does  well  fur 
boiling  and  roasting.  Scrape  and  shave  off  the 
outside,  and,  if  convenient,  steep  the  piece  of 
ham  in  cold  water  some  hours  before  cooking. 
Boil  according  to  size — about  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  for  every  pound.  Take  it  out  and  remove 
the  rind;  bake  about  half  an  hour,  or  till  richly 
browned  Serve  it  thinly  shoed  on  a  bed  of 
spinach  in  a  dish. 

134^Boiled  Spinach. 

This  needs  the  least  cooking  of  any  kind  of 
greens,  and  will  boil  away  in  the  water  if  left  on 
too  long.  Pick  it  over,  wash  and  let  lie  in  a  pan 
of  cold  water.  Then  put  it  into  water  that  is 
already  boihng,  with  a  pinch  of  soda  or  ammo- 
nia to  keep  it  greeu,  and  boil  about  fifteen  min- 
utes. Let  it  drain  in  a  colander;  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter  or  corned  beef  fat 


Spinach  is  also  served  with  a  poached  egg  on 
top,  or  the  egg  and  spinach  slightly  chopped 
together;  also  with  good  cream  sauce  poured 
over,  and  in  other  ways;  with  boiled  jowl  and 
bacon. 


135— Parsnip    Fritters. 

1  cupful  of  dry  mashed  parsnip. 
1  ounce  of  butter — guinea  egg  size. 
1  ounce  of  flour — large  tablespoonfuL 
legg. 

1  teaspoonful  of  mixed  salt  and  pepper. 
Stir  all  together.     Drop  spoonfuls  in  a  frying 
pan  of  hot  lard  or  drippings  and  fry  browa 


136— Baked  Celery  with  Clieese  -Italian. 

A  way  of  using  the  outside  stalks  of  celery  to 
make  a  dish  that  finds  many  admirers  at  hotel 
tables. 

3  cupf  uls  of  celery  out  small. 

)4  cupful  of  grated  cheese. 

1^  cupful  of  butter  or  poultry  fat 

}^  cupful  of  gravy. 

Little  pepper  and  salt 

The  celery  should  be  in  pieces  about  an  inch 
long  and  split  to  look  like  macaroni.  Boil  ten 
minutes  iu  water.  Drain,  mix  in  the  cheese  and 
butter  and  pepper  and  little  salt  and  bake  it  in  a 
pan.  Baste  over  the  top  wiih  spoonfuls  of  meat 
gravy.  Serve  like  a  vegetable  in  tureen  or  indi- 
vidual dishes. 


137-BIrd's-Nest  Pudding 

No  doubt  derives  its  name  from  its  appearance 
when  baked  in  a  small  pudding  dish  and  set  on 
the  table    whole.     The   batter   rises   round   the 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


33 


edges  and  the  apples  might  be  supposed  to  re- 
semble eggs. 
y  large  tablespoonfula  of  flour. 

1  pint  of  miKc — 2  cupfuis. 
Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

2  tablespoonf  uls  of  sugar. 
2  eggs. 

Pinch  of  salt 

Nutmeg  or  cinnamon. 

Apples  enough  for  a  two-quart  pan. 

Pare  and  core  the  apples,  put  them  in  the  pan 
whole,  shake  a  spoonful  of  sugar  over  them  and 
half  the  butter  and  grate  nutmeg.  Add  water 
enough  to  wet  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  then  bake 
with  a  sheet  of  paper  over  the  pan  till  the  apples 
are  done,  basting  with  the  syrup  occasionally. 

Then  mis  the  flour,  milt  and  eggs  to  a  smooth 
batter,  melt  the  butter  and  beat  it  in  and  the 
sugar. 

Pour  the  batter  over  the  apples  and  bake  about 
half  an  hour. 


128— Cream  Pudding:  Sauce. 

1  cupful  of  thin  cream. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

1  large  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch. 

Same  of  butter. 

Flavoring  of  broken  nutmeg. 

Boil  the  cream  with  the  nutmeg  (or  stick  oin 
namon)  in  it  and  half  the  sugar,  which  prevents 
burning.  Mix  the  starch  in  the  remaining  sugar 
dry,  stir  into  the  boiling  cream  and  take  off  when 
it  thickens.  Beat  in  the  bit  of  butter  and  strain 
for  use. 


139— Rich.  Lemon  Pie. 

7  ounces  of  sugar — a  cupful. 

3  lemons. 

1  cupful  of  rich  eream. 

6  yolks  of  eggs  and  2  whites. 

Place  the  sugar  in  a  bowl  and  grate  the  lemon 
rinds  into  it  with  a  tin  grater,  and  then  squeeze 
in  the  juice.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  light  and 
mix  the  cream  with  them ;  pour  this  to  the  lemon 
and  sugar,  and  just  before  filling  the  pie  crusts 
with  the  mixture  whip  the  two  whites  to  a  froth 
and  stir  them  in. 

Use  pufli-paste  (No.  53),  to  hne  the  pie  pans. 
The  mixture  will  fill  two  pies,  or  three  if  small. 
It  is  hard  to  bake  without  browning  the  top  too 
much,  so  should  be  under  the  shelf  of  the  oven. 
These  rich  pies  do  not  need  frosting,  only  a 
dredging  of  powdered  sugar. 


smooth  cooked  paste.  Then  take  it  off  and  beat 
in  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Drop  small  spoonfuls 
of  the  paste  on  baking  pans  very  slightly  greased, 
alloAving  an  inch  or  more  of  space  between  them, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  min- 
utes. Cut  a  slit  in  the  side  and  fill  the  puffs  with 
pastry  cream  (No.  54).  This  makes  about  twenty 
putts.  The  pastry  cream  of  the  receipt  will  fill 
them,  and  enough  will  be  left  over  to  spread  be- 
tween two  layers  of  cake  or  bake  in  a  pie. 


The  difficult  part  in  makmg  cream  puffs  is 
the  baking  in  the  uneven  heat  of  a  stove  or  rantre. 
They  are  nothing  if  they  do  not  rise  round  and 
hollow,  and  the  stove  must  be  slacked  down  to 
suit. 

The  more  the  paste  is  beaten  against  the  side 
of  the  pan,  as  the  eggs  are  added  and  after,  the 
more  the  puffs  will  expand  in  baking. 

The  puffs  will  not  rise  at  all  if  the  paste  be  al- 
lowed to  get  cold  before  the  eggs  are  beaten 
into  it. 

The  handsomest  puffs  are  those  baked  done 
without  the  oven  door  ever  being  opened  in  the 
meantime. 


MENU  NO.  XII.— DINNER. 


130— Boston  Cream  Putt's. 

J^  pint  of  water — ooffee-cuoful. 
4  ounces  scant  of  lard  or  butter. 

4  ounces  of  flour — good  weight 

5  eggs. 
Pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  the  water  with  the  lard  and  salt  in  it.  Put 
in  the  flour  all  at  once,  and  stir  the  mixture  over 
the  Are  about  Ave  minutes,  or  till  it  becomes  a 


131— Consomme  Sevigrne. 

This  is  to  be  a  deep  brown  consomme  of  high 
flavor,  with  a  shape  or  two  of  bread  fried  in 
clear  butter  floating  in  each  plate. 

Roast  a  fowl  and  a  shank  or  two  of  veal  in  a 
bright  tin  baking  pan,  together,  having  a  little 
salt,  some  water,  one  onion  and  a  spoonful  of 
butter  or  other  fat  in  the  pan.  The  object  is  to 
get  a  nice  brown  color  as  well  as  flavor  to  impart 
to  the  soup.  Veal  makes  the  best  color,  both  of 
gravy  and  soup,  of  any  kind  of 
meat  The  gravy,  technically  called  glaze, 
that  will  adhere  to  the  pan  when  the  meat  is 
brown  is  soluble  when  salt  is  cooked  in  it  from 
the  first.  After  the  meats  are  browned  put  them 
on  to  boil  in  a  gallon  of  water  and  simmer  about 
four  hours.  Boil  a  little  of  the  liquor  in  tlie 
meat  pan  and  when  the  brown  glaze  is  dissolved 
add  that  to  the  stock.  Throw  in  also  a  little 
bunch  of  soup  vegetables,  some  parsley,  half  a 
bay  leaf  and  four  cloves,  and  a  few  broken  pep- 
per-corns. When  the  stock  has  boiled  long 
enough  strain  it,  remove  the  grease,  clarify  by 
boiling  a  little  choppedraw  beef  and  two  whites  of 
eggs  in  it  and  strain  again.  A  slice  of  good  bread 
for  each  plate  should  be  cut  out  with  a  biscuit; 
cutter,  then  fried  light  brown  in  the  clear  oil  of 
melted  butter.  One  at  a  lime  can  be  fried  in  the 
smallest  deep  saucepan,  as  they  only  take  a 
minute,  and  but  little  butter  will  be  required. 
Drain  them  on  paper  before  putting  them  on  the 
plates. 

The  reader  of  these  recipes  has  now  had  three 
or   four  examples  of  the  ways  of  making  the 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


bright  and  clear  consommea  that  are  served  at 
fashionable  dinners;  the  one  above  made  brown 
with  roast  meat;  that  last  week,  a  simpler  sort, 
artiflcialiy  colored;  a  plainer  vegetable  broth  be- 
fore that,  and  the  simple,  unflavored  bouillon  at 
the  beginning.  These  examples  are  enough  for  a 
complete  cook  book,  taken  with  the  various  thick 
soups  not  yet  mentioned. 

Consomme  au  riz  has  whole  grains  of  cooked 
rice  in  it.  A  spoonful  of  rice  must  be  boiled  in 
plenty  of  water  for  about  twenty  minutes,  then 
the  water  strained  away,  the  rice  rinsed  clear  and 
put  into  the  consomme.  The  grains  can  hardly 
sink  in  it,  and  look  quite  ornamental. 

Consomme  aux  pates  d'ltahe  has  the  little 
alphabet  macaroni  pastes  that  are  sold  at  the 
grocer's  treated  as  directed  for  rice,  but  not 
cooked  BO  much.  Then  there  is  consomme  with 
whole  green  peas,  with  pearl  tapioca — previously 
soaked  in  teped  water — with  vermicelli  and  other 
similar  additions.  There  is  a  harmless  trick  of 
the  trade  resorted  to  sometimes  to  give  density 
enough  so  that  the  things  added  will  seem  to 
swim  about  in  the  consomme  instead  of  sinking, 
and  that  is  to  add  a  teaspoonful  of,  corn  starch, 
which  does  not  injure  its  clearness. 


X3S— Boiled  Ked  Snapper— Shrimp  Sauce. 

There  should  be  a  proper  fish  kettle  for  boiling 
a  fish  whole,  having  a  perforated  false  bottom  or 
drainer,  that  can  be  lifted  out  witli  the  fish  upon 
it  when  done.  Where  there  is  no  such  article 
the  best  substitute  is  a  common  milk  pan  of  large 
size.  Cover  it  with  another  pan  that  the  fish 
may  get  steamed  if  not  quite  covered. 

Choose  a  small  fish,  scale  it,  draw,  chop  off  the 
fins,  wash  and  wipe  it  dry  on  a  cloth. 

Halt  fill  the  pan  with  water  and  put  in  a  little 
salt,  vinegar,  a  small  onion  and  four  cloves  stuck 
in  it  and  half  a  bay  leaf.  When  it  boils  jrat  in 
the  fish  and  simmer  it  at  the  side  of  the  range 
about  half  an  hour.  Then  pour  o£E  the  water, 
take  the  skin  off  the  upper  side,  slide  the  fish  on 
to  its  dish,  if  to  be  served  whole,  and  pour  over 
it  some  shrimp  sauce.  Butif  served  individually 
it  may  be  divided  with  a  fish  slice  in  the  pan  and 
sauce  poured  over  in  the  plates.  Small  and  ten- 
der fish,  like  fresh  mackerel,  are  best  rolled  up 
in  a  pudding-cioth  and  boiled  in  plain  salted 
water,  then  carefully  unrolled  onto  the  dish. 


133— Shrimp  Sauce. 

1  pint  of  clear  broth  or  water. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour — rather  large. 

Yolk  of  1  egg. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

1  can  of  Barataria  shrimps. 

Stir  the  flour  and  most  of  the  butter  together 
over  the  fire,  When  they  bubble  begin  adding 
the   hot  broth  or  water,  and  stir  it  till  cooked 


and  thick — about  two  minutes  longer.  Then 
drop  in  the  egg-yolk  and  beat,  and  next  the  re- 
maining small  piece  of  butter  and  teat  till  it  is 
melted.  Season  slightly  and  put  in  the  shrimps. 
They  are  already  cooked. 


134— l>ucliesse  Potatoes. 

Usually  served  with  fish,  on  the  same  plate. 
They  are  little  cakes  of  mashed  potatoes.  Take 
four  steamed  potatoes  and  mash  them  with  an 
ounce  of  butter,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  and  salt. 
Spread  on  a  pie  plate,  brush  over  with  the  yolk 
of  an  egg  mixed  with  a  spoonful  of  milk,  cut  in 
pieces  of  any  shape,  take  up  the  pieces  with  a 
knife  point,  place  them  on  a  greased  baking 
pan  and  bake  a  nice  color  on  top. 


135— Koast  lianil). 

Briefly,  the  piece  of  lamb  should  be  dusted 
with  flour,  and  roasted  just  done. 

But  meat  cutting  is  quite  an  art.  Very  few 
women  cooks  understand  it.  As  it  makes  meat 
"go  further"  at  the  carving  table  to  have  it  cut  up 
properly  before  cooking,  it  inay  easily  be  the  case 
that  the  low-priced  cook  costs  theemployermore 
than  the  really  skillful  one  at  twice  the  wages. 

In  dividing  a  side  of  lamb  get  the  ribs  ana  loin 
as  long  and  as  well  covered  with  moat  as  pos- 
sible by  catting  olf  the  shoulder  with  the  knife 
close  up  to  the  blade  bone.  People  who  choose 
almost  invariably  want  the  ribs — the  same  cut 
that  makes  chops — and  next  to  that  for  choice  is 
the  loin,  which  should  be  well  cut  downiuto  the 
leg 

vVith  the  point  of  the  kitchen  cleaver  hack 
through  the  backbone  at  one  or  two  ribs  apart, 
and  the  same  along  the  brisket,  and  chop  the 
ribs  once  across  the  breast,  and  all  without  di- 
viding the  meat  more  tlian  can  be  helped. 

Chop  off  the  shanks  and  end  of  neck,  wash  and 
put  them  in  the  stock  boiler. 

Put  a  little  salt  in  tho  baking  pan,  the  fat  from 
the  lamb,  and  a  very  little  water;  malieithot; 
dip  the  meat  in  flour  on  both  sides  and  lay  it  in 
the  hot  pan.  Keep  only  enough  water  in  to  pre- 
vent burning  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  A  little 
drippings  may  be  needed  for  bastintr.  The  ribs 
and  shoulder  should  be  done  in  twenty  minutes, 
the  leg  in  half  an  hoar. 

There  will  not  be  any  real  grav.y  in  the  pan 
worth  speaking  of  by  this  method,  the  juices  all 
being  retained  in  the  meat;  but  if  you  can  afford 
it  put  a  spoonful  of  fresh  butter  in  during  the 
last  few  minutes  and  baste  the  joint  with  it;  it 
gives  a  richer  brown  to  the  outside,  and  makes  a 
good  pan  gravy  when  water  is  added. 


Sauce  for  Roast  Hamb. 


The  preceding  directions  having  been  followed 
and  the  baking-pan    brown  already  with  flour 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


35 


and  butter,  and  not  burnt,  pour  off  all  the  clear 
fat,  and  instead  of  water  add  a  cup  of  milk.  Let 
cook  in  the  pan  a  few  minutes,  then  strain  it  and 
add  a  sprinkling  of  chopped  parsley,  and  juice  of 
half  a  lemon.  The  parsley  shotild  be  added  only 
when  the  sauce  is  to  be  sent  in,  as  it  loses  color 
by  standing. 

137— Mint  Sauce  for  Koast  Lamb. 

The  conventional  lamb  eauce.  No  other  sauce 
or  gravy  is  needed  when  this  is  used : 

3  tablespooufuls  of  green  mint. 

1  tablespoouful  of  sugar. 

)4  cupful  of  vinegar. 

Pick  the  leaves  of  mint  from  the  stems,  wash 
and  chop  tine,  and  mix  with  the  sugar  and  vine- 
gar in  a  bowl.     Serve  cold,  a  spoonful  to  each 


138— New  Green  Peas. 

Nothing  comes  to  market  that  is  so  uncertain 
in  quality  and  so  likely  to  prove  vexatious  iu  the 
cookmg  as  green  peas.  They  may  cook  one  day 
in  fifteen  minutes  and  would  break  and  dissolve 
in  the  water  if  kept  on  longer,  and  the  next  may 
still  be  hard  and  unsatisfactory  at  the  end  of  two 
hours'  boiliu','.  It  depends  mostly  upon  how 
young  or  nearly  ripe  they  are,  and  partly  upon 
the  kind  of  pea.  The  worst  for  the  cook  are  the 
mixed  lots,  that  part  boil  away  in  the  water  and 
the  rest  remain  like  beans.  Canned  peas  of  good 
brands  are  preferable  to  what  the  market  gar- 
deners generally  offer. 

To  cook  peas  green  in  color  when  done,  it  is 
necessary  to  drop  them  into  ivater  that  is  already 
boiling  and  has  a  little  salt  and  a  pinch  of  either 
soda  or  carbonate  of  ammonia  in  it.  The  ammo- 
nia evaporates  during  the  boiling.  A  piece  the 
size  of  a  pea  will  do,  of  either.  When  the  peas 
are  done,  drain  the  water  from  them 

Green  peas  are  said  to  be  dressed  a  I'Anglaise 
when  they  have  only  a  little  butter  and  salt  and 
spoonful  of  water  shaken  about  in  them.  They 
are  a  la  Francaise  when  they  have  cream  sauce 
mixed  ia 


139— Broivned  Potatoes. 

Pare  the  potatoes  and  steam  them,  and  the 
broken  ones  being  used  to  mash,  or  a  la 
duchesse,  put  the  others  in  a  small  pan  with 
some  of  the  drippings  from  the  roast  lamb  pan 
and  a  dredging  of  salt  and  bake  them  brown. 
Cold  boiled  or  baked  potatoes  are  not  lit  for  this 
purpose — they  can  be  used  better  for  breakfast 
dishes. 

140— Bread  Custard  l*udding. 

a  cupf  uls — pressed  in— of  fine  bread  crumbs. 
2  oupfuls  of  milk. 
1  ounce  of  butter — small  egg  size. 
1  tablespoouful  of  si(gar. 
3^  a  lemon. 

S  yolks,  or  1  whole  egg. 

Crumble  the  bread  fine  either  by  chopping  or 
grating;  grate  half  the  rind   of  a  lemon    into  it 


and  squeeze  a  little  of  the  juice  into  the  sugar. 
Mix  the  milk  with  the  yolks  and  sugar; 
melt  the  butter  and  mix  in  and  pour  the  mixture 
over  the  bread  crumbs  in  a  buttered  pudding- 
pan  or  bowl  and  halve  about  twenty-five  minutes. 
Various  changes  can  be  made  by  adding  raisins, 
currants  or  citron  to  this  pudding.  The  fruit 
must  be  sprinkled  in  after  the  pudding  is  in  tbe 
baking  pan.  It  will  sink  if  stirred.  Serve  a 
sauce  with  the  pudding. 


Calves'  heads  ought  not  to  be  thrown  away,  as 
they  are  in  the  country,  for  want  of  knowledge  of 
an  easy  way  of  cleaning  them.  They  are  com- 
paratively worthless  when  the  skin  is  removed 
(which  is  the  gelatinous  portion  that  makes 
calf's-head  soup,  almost  as  good  as  turtle),  and 
yet  that  is  the  way  they  are  generally  served  if 
saved  at  all. 

141. 

To  remove  the  hair  drop  the  head  and 
feet  into  a  tub  of  hot  water  that  has  had 
a  shovelful  of  wood  ashes  boiled  in  it,  or  a 
few  crumbs  of  concentrated  l;fe,  or  washing  soda. 
The  water  must  not  be  quite  boiling  hot,  as  that 
will  set  the  hair  and  make  cleaning  difficult. 
Churn  them  about  with  a  stick  of  wood  a  few 
minutes,  then  scrape  with  a  sharp  knife.  Koast 
the  hoofs  in  hot  coala  and  pry  them  off  with  a 
knife  point.  A  nicely  cleaned  head  and  feet 
bring  $1  or  $1,150  in  market. 


143— Calf  s  Head  Soup. 

Mock  turtle  soup  is  made  of  calf's  head,  but 
it  is  quite  an  elaborate  and  tedious  affair  to  make 
it  right  We  will  have  mock  turtle  next  week. 
This  is  much  more  simple. 

14  a  head  and  2  feet 

3  quarts  of  waier  or  stock. 

Small  slice  of  fried  ham. 

.},{  a  bayleaf,  3  cloves,  fragment  of  mace. 

A  soup  bunch  with  parsley  and  cives. 

Salt,  pepper  and  thickening. 

1  hard-boiled  yolk  of  egg. 

J^  a  lemon. 

As  these  seem  a  good  many  things  for  a 
simple  soup,  let  us  analyze:  The  head  gives  the 
richness  of  jelly,  but  it  is  insipid;  the  scrap  of 
ham,  the  spices,  herbs  and  vegetables  give  the 
necessary  flavor.  The  most  of  tbe  meat  is  to  be 
saved  for  the  entree,  the  rest  goes  back  iu  the 
soup  after  it  has  been  strained,  seasoned  and 
thickened.  Then  chop  the  hard-boiled  yolk  and 
sprinkle  it  in,  and  the  half  lemon  cut  in  small 
pieces.    Or,  to  state  it  in  order : 

Saw  the  calf's  head  in  two:  save  the  brain  and 
tongue,  steep  the  half  head  you  are  going  to  use 
in  cold  water.  Put  it  and  the  feet  on  in  cold 
water  or  stock  and  simmer  about  two  hours  with 
the  vegetables  and  spices,  then  strain  off,  season 
and  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Cut  the  beat  part 
of  the  head  into  oblong  pieces  and  reserve  them, 
and  take  what  is  left  to  chop  coarsely — or  cut  in 


36 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


dice — and  put  it  in  the  soup  with  the  egg  and 
lemon  and  a  little  minced  parsley. 


143— Cucumber  Salail. 

Slice  the  cucumbers  two  hours  before  they  are 
■wanted  and  sprinkle  the  slices  plentifully  with 
salt.  ,  Set  the  dish  in  the  refrigerator.  Just  be- 
fore dinner  drain  away  the  salt  liquor  from  the 
cucumbers  and  mix  them  with  oil  first,  and  then 
with  vinegar  and  pepper.  Serve  on  a  very  cold 
dish. 


144— Broiled  Salmon  Steak  vpitli  New  Potatoes. 

One  of  the  greatest  luxuries  that  can  be  pro- 
vided for  a  fine  breakfast  or  dinner,  not  only  for 
ts  high  price  but  because  the  salmon  is  calle  d 
the  king  of  fishes. 

Slice  the  fish  with  a  sharp  knife  and  sever  the 
bone  in  tlie  center  by  striking  the  point  of  the 
knife  with  a  hammer — not  to  break  or  tear  the 
meat  Lay  the  steaks  in  a  bright  tin  pan  or  dish, 
dredge  with  pepper  and  salt,  brush  them  over 
with  olive  oil,  if  you  can,  or  with  clear  melted 
butter  and  let  them  lie  till  wanted.  Then  broil 
in  the  hinged  wire  broiler  same  as  beefsteaks, 
about  ten  mmutes.  Dish  up  on  a  large  platter 
hot.  Have  some  new  potatoes  ready  boiled,  cut 
them  in  quarters  lengthwise  and  place  them  as  a 
border  around  the  steak.  Shake  a  teaspoonful 
of  chopped  parsley  over  the  salmon  steak,  melt 
a  piece  of  fresh  butter  in  an  omelet  pan  and 
pour  it  hot  over  it,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  half  a 
lemon  over  that.  Place  three  or  four  green  tufts 
of  parsley  among  the  potatoes  in  the  border  and 
send  it  in. 


Instead  of  having  the  rib  bones  taken  out  and 
the  thin  flap  of  meat  coiled  around  the  roast ; 
have  the  roast  shortened  by  sawing  off  the  ends. 
These  with  the  bones  in,  about  two  inches  in 
length,  make  a  very  popular  dish  if  cooked 
tender. 

Bake  them  in  a  deep  baking  pan  with  water 
and  drippings  and  a  good  allowance  of  salt  for 
two  or  three  hours. 

Manage  it  so  that  the  meat  will  be  stewing  in 
the  water  and  gravy  three-fourths  of  the  time, 
and  dry  out  and  brown  in  the  hot  glaze  on  the 
bottom  at  last.  Use  a  greased  paper  to  lay  on 
the  top  of  the  meat  to  keep  it  moist  during  the 
first  hour.  Roll  the  pieces  over  and  over  in  the 
glaze  during  the  last  five  minutes,  to  make  them 
shining  brown  with  it.  Pour  off  the  fat  after  the 
meat  is  removed  and  make  gravy  iu  the  pan. 


146— Yorkshire  Puddin:?. 

Originally  it  was  baked   in  front   of   the    fire 
under  the  meat  roasting  on  the   spit,  the  gravy 


dripping  upon  it  The  Yorkshire  pudding  that 
is  baked  in  a  range  is  good  enough,  however. 

1  cupful  of  flour — sifted,  heaping. 

1  pint  of  watei- — 3  cupfuls. 

3  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  drippings,  melted. 

Salt  and  baking  powder,  very  little. 

Mix  the  flour  and  water  (or  milk)  together 
gradually  by  stirring  in  the  middle.  When  it  is 
free  from  lumps  add  the  melted  drippings  or  but- 
ter, salt,  and  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  in  a 
shallow  pan,  half  an  inch  deep,  about  twenty 
minutes.  Cut  it  iu  squares  and  serve  it  with  the 
piece  of  meat  on  top,  in  a  hot  dish,  and  the  meat 
gravy  separately. 

The  batter,  as  above  made,  is  excellent  for 
sweet  puddings,  with  a  spoonful  of  golden  syrup 
added  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs  whipped  light. 
Strew  raisins  iu  tlie  batter  iu  the  pan  before  put- 
ting it  iu  the  oven,  or  quartered  apples  partly 
cooked  in  syrup  first 

147-Calf's  Head  Bieatled. 

Take  the  shapely  pieces  that  have  been  re- 
served from  the  souu-making,  pepper  and  salt 
them,  then  roll  in  beaten  egg  with  a  little  water 
added,  and  then  in  cracker  meal,  and  fry  them 
quickly  brown  in  hot  drippings  or  lard. 

Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 


148— Stewed  Oyster  Plant  or  Salsify. 

Scrape  the  roots  white,  wash  and  cut  them  in 
inch  lengths.  Boil  in  salted  water  till  tender. 
They  should  be  tried  with  a  fork,  as  the  time  re- 
quired varies.  Generally,  salsify  takes  about  an 
hour  to  cook.  Then  drain  away  the  water  and 
put  in  some  cream  sauce,  or  milk,  butter,  salt  and 
thickening. 


149— Lemon  <^ream  Pie. 

We  have  had  already  two  lemon  pies,  a  com- 
mon and  a  rich  kind  This  cream  pie  may  be 
made  in  a  crust  that  is  already  baked,  if  pre- 
ferred, or  baked  together  like  the  others. 

I.  Line  the  plates  with  pie  paste  and  bake  of 
a  light  color. 

Make  the  pastry  cream  (No.  54),  and  when  it  is 
cold  whip  a  cupful  of  thick  cream  in  a  whip- 
churn  to  a  iirm  froth  and  mix  part  of  it  in.  Use 
the  remaining  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored,  to  spread  over  the  top  after  filling  the 
crusts.  These  pies,  of  course,  do  not  need 
baking. 

n.     Make  a  special  cream  filling  this  way : 

1  pint  of  milk. 

4  ounces  of  sugar. 

2  ounces  of  flour — 2  heaping  tablespooufuls. 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

4  esge. 

}y£  a  lemon,  or  lemon  extract 

Boil  the   milk.    Mix  the  sugar,    the    grated 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


37 


lemon  rind,  and  flour  together  dry  and  stir 
them  into  the  boiling  milk  ivith  a  wire  whisk. 

Add  the  butter  and  juice  of  the  lemon  and 
then  the  yolka  of  the  eggs  well  beaten,  but  take 
from  the  fire  before  they  cook.  Line  pie  pans 
with  puff  paste  or  tart  paste.  Pour  in  the  cream 
and  bake  in  a  alack  oven.  When  done  meringue 
over  as  directed  at  No.  103. 

Variations  of  these  kinds  are  made  by  first 
spreading  fruit  jelly  or  marmalade  in  the  crusts 
and  the  lemon  cream  on  that,  and  by  making 
deep  patty  pan  sizes,  finished  in  the  same  way. 


150— Strawberry  Meringue. 

Bake  a  sheet  of  sponge  cake  on  a  jelly  cake 
pan,  take  it  off  warm  and  gently  press  it,  top  side 
down,  into  a  dinner  place  to  shape  it  hollow. 
Mix  half  a  cup  of  sugar  with  two  cups  of  straw- 
berries by  shaking  about  in  a  bowl,  and  spread 
them  on  the  cake.  Whip  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  firm,  mix  in  two  tablespoouf  ills  of  sugar, 
spread  the  meringue  over  the  berries  and  bake 
with  the  oven  door  open  about  five  minutes,  or 
until  it  is  lightly  colored.  A  piece  of  board 
hould  be  placed  under  the  plate  to  keep  it  froms 
getting  too  hot  in  the  oven,  as  it  is  not  intended 
to  bake  anything  but  the  top  covering.  Serve 
cold. 


151— Spouse  Cake. 

14  ounces  of  granulated  sugar. 

12  eggs. 

13  ounces  of  flour. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  together  with  a  stout 
wire  egg  whisk  for  half  an  hour.  Then  cut  in 
the  flour.  The  goodness  of  the  cake  depends  al- 
together upon  the  beating,  and  for  that  to  be 
effectual  the  ingredients  must  be  cold.  The  eggs 
need  not  be  separated,  the  whites  from  the  yolks. 
The  best  vessel  for  the  beating  is  a  bell-metal 
kettle,  but  a  deep  pan  or  tin  pail  will  do.  After 
the  flour  is  in  and  just  stirred  enough  to  be 
fairly  out  of  sight  it  is  finished,  and  should  not 
be  beaten  more.    Baiie  as  soon  as  possible. 

It  may  incerest  some  reaaers  to  know  that  at 
the  great  baiseries  wnere  almost  everything  else 
is  done  by  machinery,  the  sponge  cake,  one  of 
the  most  important  articles  in  the  trade,  is  still 
made  by  hand  as  above  described. 


153— Small  Sponare  Cakes. 

Brush  inside  some  small  sponge  cake  pans,  or 
gem  or  muffin  pans,  with  a  touch  of  melted  lard, 
and  sift  flour  in  them.  Shake  out,  and  half  fill 
them  with  the  sponge  cake  batter.  Sift  powdered 
sugar  over  the  tops — the  pans  being  set  on  a 
paper — and  bake  the  cakes  in  a  slack  oven  till  of 
a  light  brown  color. 


153— Neiv  York  Ice  Cream. 

1  quart  of  thin  cream. 

12  ounces  of  sugar. 

12  yolks  of  eggs. 

Vanilla  bean  or  extract  to  flavor. 

Boil  the  cream  with  the  sugar  and  a  vanilla 
bean  in  it  Beat  the  yolka  light  and  pour  the 
boilmg  cream  to  them.  Set  on  the  fire  again  for 
a  minute.  This  yellow  custard  will  not  become 
frothy,  rich  and  light  in  the  freezer  if  cooked 
much,  but  should  be  taken  off  and  strained  as 
soon  as  slightly  thickened.  Set  the  freezer  con- 
taining it  in  its  tub  and  pack  with  ice  pounded 
fine  and  mixed  with  one-fifth  as  much  coarse 
salt,  Tui'n  the  freezer,  and  when  the  contents  is 
nearly  frozen,  if  a  common  freezer  ia  used,  take 
off  the  lid  and  beat  up  the  cream  with  paddle  or 
spoon. 

154— Cocoanut  Candy  Drops. 

1  pound  of  granulated  sugar. 

8  ounces  of  grated  cocoanut 

One-third  cupful  of  water. 

Set  the  sugar  and  water  over  the  fire  in  a  small, 
bright  kettle  and  boil  about  five  minutes,  or  till 
the  ayrup  bubbles  up  and  ropes  from  the  spoon, 
and  do  not  stir  it.  Then  put  in  the  cocoanut, 
stir  to  mix,  and  begin  at  once  and  drop  the  cand3' 
by  tablespoonfuls  on  a  buttered  baking  pan. 
The  dry  dessicated  cocoanut  ia  the  eaaier  kind  to 
work  with.  With  the  moist,  fresh  grated  more 
time  should  be  given  for  the  augar  to  boil  to  the 
candy  point. 


MENU      NO.     XIV.— DINNER. 


155— Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

1  gallon  of  soup  stock  or  water. 

}4  a  calf's  head,  2  feet  and  tongue. 

Soup  bunch  of  vegetables  and  aweet  herbs. 

Flour  browned  with  butter,  for  thickenin.g. 

1  lemon.     Some  spices.     Bay  leaf. 

A  glass  of  sherry.     Cayenne.     Salt. 

Egg  balls  and  meat  balls. 

Simmer  the  meats  in  the  stock  about  two 
hours,  along  with  the  soup  bunch  and  thyme, 
savory  and  parsley,  and  half  a  bay  leaf  and  four 
cloves. 

While  this  ia  boiling  put  into  a  frying  pan  a 
small,  thin  slice  of  ham  and  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg.  Fry  the  ham  on  both  sides,  put  in  with  it 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  and  set  the  pan  in 
the  oven  for  the  flour  to  brown  nicely  in  the 
butter  without  getting  black.  Then  take  the 
calf's  head  out  of  the  soup  and  stir  the  browned 
flour  and  ham  into  it.  Let  cook  a  while  to 
thicken.  After  that  pass  the  soup,  which  should 
be  like  thin  gravy,  through  a  strainer  into  a- 
clean  saucepan,  and  when  it  boils  skim  it.     Mix 


3$ 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


the  juice  of  halt'  the  lemon  in  a  little  cold  water, 
pour  it  in  and  skim  ^vheu  it  boils  up  again.  This 
makes  the  soup  bright.  Season  with  salt  and 
cayenne.  Cut  some  scraps  of  the  head  m  neat 
dice  and  throw  them  in,  then  the  quenelles,  the 
remaining  lemon  sliced  thin,  and  the  glass  of 
sherry. 


a  hard  boiled  yolks  of  eggs. 

X  as  much  hot  boiled  potato. 

1  teaspoonf  ul  of  chopped  parsley. 

Cayenne  and  salt. 

1  raw  yolk. 

Mash  all  together.  Make  up  in  balls  size  of 
cherries,  with  flour  on  the  hands.  Poach  them  a 
minute  or  two  in  a  frying  pan  of  boiling  water. 
Take  up  on  a  skimmer  and  drop  them  into  the 
soup. 


3^  a  calf's  tongue,  cooked,  or  some  cold  veal. 

1^  the  weight  of  fine  bread  crumbs, 

a  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter. 

Seasoning  of  sweet  herbs,  and  nutmeg. 

Pepper  and  salt. 

1  raw  egg. 

Mince  the  meat  small,  add  the  other  in- 
gredients, and  pound  them  all  together.  Make 
up  in  little  balls,  with  flour  on  the  hands. 
Poach  them  in  boiling  water  and  put  them  in  the 
soup. 

The  above  two  mixtures  can  be  used  as  cro- 
quettes, made  into  shapes,  and  fried;  and  are 
good  to  place  as  ornamental  accessories  in  the 
sauces  to  fish  and  meats. 


158— Small  Patties  au  Salpicun. 

These  little  trifles  that  are  often  served  be- 
twixt the  soup  and  the  fish  are  made  in  a  dozen 
different  shapes  and  filled  with  as  many  different 
preparations.  The  word  salpicon  means  a  mince 
like  sausage  meat,  highly  seasoned,  and  may  be 
made  like  the  forcemeat  balls  preceding  of 
cooked  meat  as  well  as  raw,  with  chicken  minced 
as  if  for  croquettes,  and  the  like. 

Make  the  puff-paste  No.  .53,  and  roll  out  thin 
as  the  edge  of  a  plate;  cut  out  with  a  biscuit 
cutter.  Wet  one  flat  with  a  brush  dipped  in 
water,  place  a  teaspoonful  of  extra  high-seasoned 
sausage  meat  in  the  center  and  cover  with  an- 
other of  the  flats.  Press  the  edges  together 
lightly  all  around  and  bake  about  twenty  min- 
utes. 

159— Baked  Whitefish,  Tartar   Sauce. 

Split  the  fish,  after  cleaning,  down  the  back 
and  take  out  the  backbone.  Put  some  good, 
clear  drippings  to  get  hot  in  a  baking  pan.     Wipe 


the  fish,  dip  it  in  beaten  egg,  theu  dip  it  in  flour 
and  then  in  egg  again;  lay  it  in  the  pan  of  hot 
fat  and  bake  it  carefully  at  a  moderate  heat — 
perhaps  with  the  oven  door  open — for  about 
twenty  minutes.  Baste  the  exposed  surface  with 
the  fat.  Fish  look?  extremely  rich  cooked  this 
way,  yellow-brown  and  semi-transparent,  if  not 
allowed  to  get  too  hot  while  baking;  yet  the  fat 
must  be  hissing  hot  when  the  fish  is  put  in. 
Serve  cold  tartar  sauce  in  a  boat  separately. 
Garnish  the  fish  with  fried  parsley. 

160— Tartar  Sauce,  Cold. 

Make  the  mayonaise  sauce.  No.  68,   and  add  to 
it  a  little  finely-minced  onion  and  green  gherkin. 


161— I>aupliine  Potatoes. 

Served  with  fish,  in  the  same  plate.  Press 
mashed  potatoes  through  a  sieve;  mix  the  yolk 
of  au  egg  in  it;  drop  a  few  tablespoonfuls  on 
a  baking  pan,  in  shapes  like  little  drop-cakes, 
and  bake  them  a  light  color. 


163— Koast  Beef. 

"Cooks  are  born,  not  made;  but  it  requires 
genius  to  roast" — the  aphorism  of  a  noted  French 
gourmand,  so  often  quoted,  let  us  repeat  once 
again.  It  may  not  bear  to  be  construed  literally, 
but  it  expresses  the  idea  of  relative  importance. 
Was  it  not  really  a  genuine  expression  of  impa- 
tience at  the  dullness  of  apprehension  of  the 
good  man's  own  cook,  who,  likely  enough,  would 
keep  sticking  the  fork  into  the  meat  and  letting 
out  all  the  juices? 

.  To  roast  or  bake  meat  so  that,  however  small 
the  piece  may  be,  it  will  be  found  fuU  of  gravy 
when  cut,  it  is  necessary  to  have  the  pan  it  is 
baked  in  hot  before  the  meat  goes  in,  and 
although  there  must  be  liquor  in  tlie  pan  while 
it  is  baking,  that  should  be  added  after  the  meat 
has  become  hot  enough  outside  for  the  pores  to 
be  closed  and  the  juices  retained  inside. 

The  choice  roasting  piece  of  beef  is  the  ribs 
between  the  edge  of  the  shoulder-blade  and  the 
loin — the  short  ribs.  As  the  butchers  have  to 
sell  everything,  as  a  matter  of  business,  they 
take  out  the  ribs  and  coil  the  thin  meat  of  the 
breast  around  the  choice  upper  portion,  and 
make  a  neat  cushion-shaped  roast,  secured  with 
twine  and  skewers.  In  the  places  where  the 
highest  prices  are  paid,  however,  the  breast  por- 
tion has  to  be  cut  away  altogether  and  cooked 
separately,  as  in  our  example  last  week,  and  the 
choice  upper  portion  or  entee-cote  only  is  roasted. 
This  is  nearly  always  cooked  rare  done,  and  the 
plentiful  gravy  that  flows  from  it  when  cut 
is  caught  in  a  dish  and  is  the  only  gravy 
served  with  it.  As  to  time,  the  old  rule  is  the 
only  one :  Allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  for  each 
pound  of  meat,  and  less,  according  to  judgment, 
when  the  roast  is  of  thin  shape  or  required  to  be 
very  rare  done. 


Chicago  HERALt)  cooking  School. 


39 


When  a  made  gravy  is  required  to  go  with  the 
beef,  the  bones  and  trimmings  of  the  ruast  should 
be  put  ia  the  pan  with  it,  a  little  salt,  a  slice  of 
carrot  and  turnip,  and  a  little  hot  water,  and 
when  the  meat  is  done  and  the  water  all  dried 
out,  pour  off  the  grease,  add  some  broth  or  water 
to  the  glaze  on  the  bottom  of  tue  pan,  and  when 
it  is  dissolved  by  boiling  tnielien  it  slightly  with 
flour  and  strain  it.  This  is  called  sauce  brune ; 
but  when  made  richer  by  the  use  of  large  quan- 
tities of  meat,  and  highly  flavorad  with  spices 
and  herbs,  it  is  called  espaguole  by  the  cooks, 
who  then  subdivide  it,  and  by  adding  different 
ingredients  to  different  portions,  make  the  host 
of  sauces  with  unfamiliar  names  that  lead 
off  to  the  inextricable  entanglements  of  French 
cookery. 

163— Browned  Parsnips. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  parsnips ;  the  hollow- 
crown  or  sugar  parsnip  is  the  best,  and  will  take 
on  a  rich  brown  in  the  oven  when  the  other  kind 
comes  out  only  dried  and  tasteless.  Pare  the 
parsnips,  cut  in  pieces  lengthwise  and  steam 
about  an  hour.  Then  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  with  a 
little  salt  and  meat  drippings.  Drain  by  tipping 
up  one  end  of  the  pan. 


164— String  Beans. 

Snap  them  in  two  in  the  middle  and  pull  off 
the  strings.  Boil  in  salted  water  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Drain  the  water  away  and 
put  in  the  same  seasonings  as  in  green  peas, 
either  a  little  cream  sauce  or  butter,  salt  and 
pepper. 

165— Croquettes  of  Calves'  Brains. 

1  set  of  brains — about  }4  pound. 

1  cupful,  loose  measure,  of  bread  crumbs. 

1  ounce  of  butter. 

]4  an  egg— or  the  yolk. 

1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 

1  teaapoouf  ul  of  mixed  salt  and  pepper. 

Little  lemon  juice,  or  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 

Slight  gratmg  of  nutmeg. 

Simmer  the  brains  in  salted  water  for  about 
twenty  minutes,  then  put  them  in  cold  water  and 
peel  off  the  dark  outside,  cut  them  up  and  mash 
with  the  bread  crumbs  and  all  the  other  in- 
gredients. 

Make  up  in  shapes  with  flour  on  the  hands. 
Long  rolled  shapes  like  link  sausages,  with  the 
ends  cut  off  square,  are  best.  These,  if  well 
coated  with  flour,  can  be  fried  in  the  wire 
basket  in  hot  lard,  of  a  nice  yellow  color,  or  may 
be  rolled  first  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  cracker 
meal  and  fried.  Let  them  get  well  done.  Serve 
with  cream  sauce,  or  with  green  peas  dressed 
with  butter. 


166 -Ci- 


'  Bcchaini:!. 


2  rounded  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

1  cupful  of  boiling  milk  or  cream. 

Salt 

Mis  the  flour  with  most  of  the  butter  in  a  little 
saucepan  and  let  them  get  hot  and  bubbling  over 
the  fire  with  constant  stirring,  then  add  the  milk 
a  little  at  a  time  and  stir  it  up  smooth.  When  it 
is  cooked  thick  beat  in  the  remaining  portion  of 
butter.     Strain  if  not  quite  smooth. 


This  sauce  is  useful  in  fifty  ways,  for  codfish 
in  cream,  chipped  beef,  vegetables,  sauce  for 
fresh  boiled  fish,  etc.,  etc.  As  we  suppose  we 
are  writing  explanations  for  domestic  cooks,  as 
well  as  others,  who  should  know  how  to  cook  for 
the  wealthy  who  can  choose  the  best,  it  may  be 
stated  that  the  elaborately  prepared  Bechamel, 
that  is,  the  sauce  originated  by  a  cook  of  that 
name,  is  made  of  broth  with  all  the  vegetable 
seasonings  in  it  boiled  dow^n  very  strong  and 
rich,  then  thickened  as  above  shown  with  fiour 
and  butter,  and  thick  cream  added  at  last. 
Plain  people  will  hardly  care  for  such  niceties  in 
small  matters,  yet  when  club  men  vaunt  the  ex- 
cellence of  the  club  or  restaurant  table  it  must 
be  a  source  of  satisfaction  to  know  whereof 
they  boast; 


167— Cairs  Head,  Vinaisrette. 

Cut  the  calf's  head  that  was  reserved  from  the 
sotip-making  into  oblong  pieces  and  turn  off  the 
rough  ends  and  edges.  Keep  the  pieces  on  a 
plate  ready.     Make  the  sauce  of ; 

1  cupful  of  clear  broth  or  stock. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

6  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar, 

I  teaspoonf  ul  of  corn  starch. 

Salt  and  cayenne. 

1  pickled  gherkin,  chopped  small. 

Boil  and  thicken  slightly  with  the  starch.  It 
makes  a  clear  acid  sauce.  Put  in  the  pieces  of 
calf's  head  and  let  them  get  warm  through  with- 
out boiling.  Add  the  chopped  pickle.  Orna- 
ment the  dish  when  served  with  quarters  of 
hard-boiled  eggs,  or  a  little  chopped  egg  sprinkled 
over. 

The  same  dish  made  without  butter  is  also 
served  cold,  along  with  the  side  dishes  of  cucum- 
bers, cress,  etc.,  like  soused  head  or  feet. 


168— Potatoes  in  Cream. 

Buy  freshly  dugpotatoes  that  can  be  scraped,  if 
they  can  be  had  as  well  as  tiie  wilted  ones  that 
must  be  pared.  Steam  them  till  done,  about 
half  an  hour,  then  put  them  in  cream  sauce  made 
thin,  and  sprinkle  in  a  little  chopped  parsley. 


40 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


169— Banana    Fritters. 

Peel  the  bananaa,  cut  them  in  two  across  and 
steep  the  pieces  in  syrup  of  sugar  and  water. 
After  they  have  lain  iu  syrup  an  hour  or  two 
dram  them,  roll  well  in  flour,  making  a  good 
coating  stick  and  either  fry  in  hot  lard  or  bake 
and  baste  them  till  of  a  nice  light  brown  color 
and  crisp  outside.  Boil  the  syrup  and  strain  it 
for  sauce. 

no— Boiled  Plum  Pudding. 

]4  pound  of  white  bread  crumbs. 

4  ounces  of  sugar. 

4  ounces  of  chopped  suet. 

4  ounces  of  raisins. 

4  ounces  of  currants. 

]4  coffeeoupful  of  milk. 

1  egg. 

1  teaspoonful  of  mixed  ground  spices— cinna- 
mon, nutmeg  and  mace. 

Little  salt  and  a  pinch  of  soda. 

Mix  the  dry  articles  together  —  the  bread 
crumbs  being  grated  or  chopped  quite  fine — 
then  wet  with  the  milk  and  egg,  with  the  pinch 
of  salt  and  soda  dissolved  in  them ;  tie  up  in  a 
pudding  bag  and  boil  four  hours. 


171 -Brandy  Sauce  for  Plum  Pudding. 

]4  cupful  of  sugar. 

J^  cup  of  water. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

A  slice  of  lemon. 

1  teaspoonful  of  whole  spices — cloves,  mace, 
cinnamon. 

A  wineglaasful  of  brandy.  Boil  all,  except  the 
brandy,  together  for  five  minutes,  then  strain 
and  add  the  brandy. 


Another  half  cup  of  water  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  corn  starch  mixed  up  in  it  may  be  added  to 
the  above.  It  will  still  be  transparent  and 
cheaper  than  the  strong  syrup  sauce. 


173— Rhubarb  Pie. 

Ehubarb  should  be  peeled  and  cut  in  two-inch 
lengths,  and  cooked  with  only  water  enough  to 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  with  half  a  pound 
of  brown  sugar  to  each  pound  spread  over  the 
top  and  the  steam  shut  in.  It  burns  easily,  and 
should  be  cooked  at  the  side  of  the  range  or  set 
upon  a  brick  till  the  sugar  dissolves  with  the 
juice  to  form  a  syrup. 

Line  the  pie  pans  with  puff  paste,  made  not 
very  rich,  fill  with  the  stewed  rhubarb  and  place 
broad  strips  of  paste,  cut  with  a  paste  jagger 
across  and  bake ;  or  use  the  plain  pie  paste  and 
bake  with  a  top  crust.  Sift  powdered  sugar 
over. 


173— Chocolate    Cream    Tarts. 

This  is  pastry  cream  like  the  lemon  cream  pie 
filling  with  chocolate  in  it. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

4  ounces  of  sugar. 

3  ounces  of  flour 

1  ounce  of  chocolate — grated. 

1  ounce  of  butter. 

3  or  4  yolks  of  eggs. 

Boil  the  milk  with  the  chocolate  in  it  and  a  lit- 
tle sugar  to  nrevent  burning  on  the  bottom.  Mix 
the  flour  with  the  rest  of  the  sugar,  dry,  and  beat 
them  into  the  boiling  milk.  Then  add  the  butter 
and  the  yolks  well  beaten  and  take  the  mixture 
immediately  oS'  the  fire.  The  yolks  should  finish 
cooking  in  the  tarts.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Line 
deep  gem  pans  with  tart  paste,  fill  with  the  choc- 
olate cream  and  bake  in  a  slack  oven.  Whip  the 
whites  of  eggs,  add  two -spoonfuls  of  sugar, 
meringue  over  the  tops  of  the  tarts  and  let  them 
get  slightly  colored  on  top. 

The  same  cream  may  be  made  suitable  to  fill 
shells  of  pastry  already  baked,  by  letling  it  cook 
sufficiently  on  the  range  and  mixing  in  some 
whipped  cream  when  cold. 


174-Tutti  Frutti  Ice  Cream. 

Make  the  frozen  custard  of  the  menu  preced- 
ing and  add  to  it  a  wineglassful  of  maraschino 
for  flavor  acd  a  teaspoonful  or  two  of  burnt  su- 
gar coloring  to  give  it  a  darker  hue.  Then  cut  a 
pound  of  French  candied  fruits  in  small  pieces 
and  mix  in  and  freeze  again.  The  tutti  frutti 
may  either  be  dished  up  out  of  the  freezer  by 
spoonfuls,  or  pressed  into  a  brick-shaped  mould. 
In  the  latter  case,  it  should  be  prepared  several 
hours  before  it  is  wanted,  and  the  mould  when 
filled  should  be  packed  in  ice  and  salt  and  cov- 
ered down  to  remain  two  or  three  hours. 


175-Jel!y  KoU. 

Make  sponge  cake  mixture,  spread  it  thinly  on 
a  sheet  of  manilla  paper  and  bake  it  light  colored, 
on  a  baking  pan.  Lay  the  sheet  when  done, 
cake  downward  on  the  table,  brush  the  paper 
over  with  water  and  pull  it  oft  the  cake.  Spread 
with  jelly  and  roll  up. 


MENU     NO.     XV.— DINNER. 


176-Mutton  Stew  with  Vegetables. 

3  pounds  of  breast  or  neck  of  mutton. 
1  onion  and  a  little  of  the  green  tops. 

4  potatoes. 

Piece  of  turnip,  carrot  and  parsnip. 
Piece  of  pepper  pod  minced,  parsley  and  salt. 
The  meat   for   this    first-class   dish    can   be 
bought  for  4  or  5  cents  per  pound,   because   so 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


41 


few  know  how  good  it  is  when  stewed  loog 
enough.  Four  hours  before  the  meal  chop  the 
breast  of  mutton  in  pieces  of  even  size,  wash 
and  put  it  on  in  a  goocl  sized  saucepan  with  cold 
water  enough  to  cover.  When  it  boils  skim  it. 
Throw  in  the  vegetables  all  but  the  potatoes,  let 
stew,  with  the  lid  on,  two  hours,  then  add  the 
potatoes,  parsley,  red  pepper  and  salt,  and  sim- 
mer an  hour  longer.  The  vegetables  should  be 
cut  in  pieces  ot  even  size,  and  other  kinds  can  be 
added,  such  as  celery  and  peas.  Add  more  hot 
water  if  necessary,  thicken  with  a  spoonful  of 
flour  mixed  with  water. 


177— Buttermilk  Biscuits. 

1  pound  or  quart  of  flour. 

2  cupfuls  of  buttermilk. 

1  rounded  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Sift  the  soda  into  the  flour  dry,  add  salt,  and 
mix  with  the  buttermilk  poured  into  a  hollow  in 
the  middle.  Care  should  be  taken  to  keep  the 
dough  as  soft  as  it  is  possible  to  roll  it  out 
Knead  it  only  by  pressing  out  with  the  flat  hands. 
Let  stand  five  minutes  for  the  soda  to  be  well 
dissolved  in  the  dough,  then  knead  again  and 
cut  out. 


178— Baked  Klce  and  Milk  Pnddinz. 

1  cupful  of  rice. 

1  cupful  of  sugar. 

6  cupfuls  of  milk. 

Cinnamon  or  nutmeg.. 

A  pinch  of  salt 

Wash  the  rice  in  three  or  four  waters,  put  it 
into  a  tin  pudding  pan,  and  the  sugar,  milk,  salt 
and  piece  of  stick  cinnamon  with  it,  all  culd,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  three  or  four  hours.  It 
may  be  best  to  use  only  five  cups  of  milk  at  first, 
and  add  the  other  if  the  time  allows  the  pud 
ding  to  boil  down  dry  enough.  Cover  with  a 
sheet  of  greased  paper  to  keep  the  top  from 
scorching. 


MENU    NO.  XVI.— DINNER. 


179-Onion  Soup. 

3  or  4  pounds  of  breast  of  mutton. 

1  cupful  of  minced  onion. 

2  quarts  of  water. 
1  cupful  of  milk. 

Flour  thickening :  salt  and  pepper. 

Take  a  breast  of  mutton  and  two  shoulder 
shanks,  or  any  coarse  piece  beside,  and  four  hours 
before  dinner  time  put  them  on  without  chop- 
ping or  cutting  up,  in  three  quarts  of  water. 
Put  the  lid  on,  and  let  stew  for  three    hours. 

Then  tal;e  out  all  the  meat,  strain  the  broth, 
and  add  the  minced  onion,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  let  cook  some  time  longer,    then  thicken 


with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  up  with  the 
milk,  cold,  and  skim  the  fat  off  as  it  rises. 


180— Breast  of  Mutton,  Fried  or  Boiled. 

The  mutton  having  been  cooked  till  tender,  as 
directed  in  the  preceding  recipe,  pull  out  all  the 
bones  and  press  the  meat  between  two  dishes. 
Set  in  a  cold  place.  When  cold,  trim  off  rough 
edges;  pepper  and  salt  it;  then  either  dip  both 
sides  in  flour  and  fry  it  nicely  brown  (in  the  fat 
ekimmed  off  the  soup)  or  broil  or  bake  it  brown 
without  flour,  and  baste  with  a  little  fat  while  it 
is  cooking. 


181— Mashed  Kuta-Ra£as. 

Pare  one  large  ruta-baga  turnip,  cut  it  in  thin 
slices,  and  steam  about  an  hour  over  the  same 
kettle  the  breast  of  mutton  is  boiled  in.  Mash 
smooth  when  done,  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  add  milk,  if  available. 


183- I.ettuce  Salad, 

2  heads  of  lettuee. 

1  hard-boiled  egg. 

}4  cup  ot  vinegar. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Chop  the  lettuce  the  last  thing  before  dinner — 
that  it  may  not  have  time  to  wilt  and  turn  dark 
— and  chop  the  white  and  yolk  qf  the  egg  sepa- 
rately. Mix  lettuce,  vinegar,  salt'and  pepper,  and 
chopped  white  of  egg  together  in  a  bowl,  and 
sprinkle  the  minced  yolk  on  top. 


183-BoiIed  Corn  Meal  Puddinsr. 

2  level  cupfuls  of  white  corn  meal. 

3  cupfuls  of  water. 

1  cupful  of  minced  suet. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
1  egg.     Salt 

Lemon  or  orange  zest,  or  ground  ginger. 

Boil  the  water  with  the  sugar  in  it,  sprinkle  in 
the  meal  as  in  making  mush,  and  stir  it  over  the 
fire  for  five  minutes,  mix  in  the  suet,  salt,  beaten 
egg,  and  grated  riud  or  ginger.  Wet  and  flour  a 
pudding  cloth,  place  it  in  a  bowl,  pour  in  the 
mixture,  tie  loose  enough  for  it  to  swell  nearly 
double  its  bulk,  and  boil  it  five  hours.  Serve 
with  sauce  or  syrup. 


184— Plain  Puddins  Sauce. 

1  cupful  of  hot  water. 

1  cupful  of  brown  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

Little  butter. 

Stir  the  sugar  and  flour  together  dry,  pour  the 
water  to  them,  add  butter,  and  keep  stirring 
over  the  fire  till  it  boils. 


42 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


185— Cominon  Ginsrerbread. 

12  ounces  of  black  molasses— a  coffee  cupful 
4  ounces  of  butter  or  lard— a  small  cupful. 

1  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger. 

1  small  teaspoouful  of  soda. 

1  pound  or  quart  of  flour. 

1  cnpful  of  hot  water. 

Salt  when  lard  is  used. 
■  Melt  the  butter  and  stir  it  into  the  molasses 
and  then  the  esg,  ginger  and  soda. 

The  mixture  begins  to  foam.  Then  stir  in  the 
flour,  and  lastly  tlie  hot  water,  a  little  at  a  time. 
Bake  in  a  shallow  pan. 


186— C'ollops  of  Beef  ill  Glaze. 

By  long  stewing  and  with  care  at  the  finish,  we 
can  have  small  pieces  of  beef,  no  matter  how 
coarse  the  cut,  perfectly  tender  and  covered  with 
the  richest  natural  gravy  without  any  additions 
whatever  other  than  plain  seasoning. 

Take  two  pounds  of  the  neck  of  beef  and  cut 
it  into  small  but  thick  steaks.  Put  them  on  in 
sold  water  with  a  teaspoouful  of  salt  and  half  as 
much  black  pepper,  and  boil  with  the  lid  on  for 
three  hours.  As  the  water  boils  away  stir  up  the 
meat  from  the  bottom  lest  it  stick  and  burn. 
Move  the  saucepan  to  the  front  where  you  can 
watch  it,  and  as  soon  as  the  water  is  nearly  all 
expelled  and  before  the  saucepan  bottom  begins 
to  brown,  take  it  off.  Put  the  pieces  of  meat  on 
a  hot  dish.  There  will  perhaps  be  a  teacupful  of 
essence  of  meaffin  the  saucepan.  Skim  off  the 
fat  if  necessary  and  pour  the  essence  over  for 
gravy. 

187— Boasted  Onions. 

Peel  a  sufficient  number  of  onions  and  steam 
them  until  done,  which  may  take  an  hour  and  a 
half.  Then  bake  them  in  a  pan  with  a  little 
drippings  and  salt  and  a  sprinkling  of  sugar  or 
syrup  to  cause  them  to  brown  on  top.  Serve 
tiiem  in  the  same  dish  with  the  coUops  of  beef 
placed  around  the  edge. 

188— Hot  Slaw. 

1  quart  of  finely  shred  cabbage. 

1  cupful  of  mixed  vinegar  and  water. 

1  egg  or  2  or  :^  yolUs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Little  salt,  &ui,'ar  and  rod  pepper.  Mix  all  to- 
gether in  a  bright  saucepan  set  in  another  of 
boiling  water,  and  stir  uutil  it  is  at  boiling  heat, 
and  the  eggs  in  it  thicken  and  make  it  look 
creamy.     Do  not  let  it  cook. 

lS9-Boilea  Molasses  KsiU. 

For  the  paste : 

S  ounces  of  flour — 2  heaping  cuptuls. 

Lard  or  butter  size  of  an  egg. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Little  salt 

Water  to  mix — over  half  cupful. 

The  good  of   knowing    huw    much    water   by 


measure  is  that  it  saves  weighing  or  measuring 
flour,  as  so  much  water  will  take  up  so  much. 

Mix  the  flour  and  water  with  nothing  else  in 
but  salt.  Have  the  dough  as  soft  as  it  possibly 
can  be  worked.  Knead  it  on  the  table  a  little, 
roll  out  and  drop  the  lard  on  it  in  little  lumps, 
fold  over  in  three  and  roll  out  again.  Then 
strew  half  the  baking  powder  over  the  sheet  of 
paste  dry,  fold  up  and  rollout;  spread  the  rest 
of  the  powder  and  fold  and  roll  it  twice  more. 
That  makes  flaky  roly-noly  pudding  paste. 

}i'or  the  filling  take  half  a  cupful  of  molasses, 
stir  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Spread  the  preparation 
over  the  sheet  of  dough  rolled  out  thin,  roll  it 
up,  tie  in  a  pudding  cloth  and  pin  the  middle, 
and  boil  or  steam  it  one  hour.  Dip  the  pudding 
a  moment  in  cold  water  when  to  be  taken  out  of 
the  cloth.     Serve  with  plain  sauce. 


A  still  cheaper  paste  for  roll  puddings  is  the 
biscuit  dough  made  with  buttermilk  and  soda, 
as  at  No.  177. 

MENU    NO.   XVIII.— DINNER. 


190 -Btef  Pot-Pie. 

3  pounds  of  coarse  fat  beef. 

1  slice  of  salt  pork  or  bacon. 

1  onion. 

Salt,  black  pepper,  flour  thickening; 

Biscuit  dough  for  dumplings. 

Take  any  pieces  of  beef  not  suitable  for  steaks, 
cut  them  to  one  size,  put  on  in  cold  water,  and 
let  stew  at  least  two  hours,  with  the  lid  on. 
Throw  in  the  seasoning  of  pickled  pork  and 
onion,  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour  with  water  for  thickening. 


191— Lislit  JDumplinss   For  Pot-Pies. 

1  heaping  cupful  of  flour. 

1  small  teaspoonful  of  baking  power. 

14  cupful  of  water. 

Mix  the  powder  in  the  flour  dry,  add  a  Utile 
salt;  then  mix  up  wuth  a  spoon.  The  doagh  should 
be  a  little  too  soft  to  handle  and  the  dumplings 
then  will  remain  light  after  cooking  instead  of 
turning  heavy  as  they  often  do  after  being  good 
when  first  done.  Droji  the  dumplings  with  a 
spoon  all  over  the  top  of  the  stew,  put  on  the  lid 
and  when  they  are  nearly  cooked  set  the  sauce- 
pan ill  the  oven  without  the  lid  to  brown  the  top. 
Baste  once  with  the  stew  liquor. 


192— How  to  Boil  Potatoe.s. 

While  the  complaint  is  so  common  that  very 
few  cooks  know  how  to  boil  a  potato  properly,  it 
may  be  well  to  remember  that  some  kinds  of 
potatoes  are  so  bad  already  they  can  neither  be 
made  better  nor  worse,  no  matter  how  they  are 
cooked.  The  early  sorts,  that  grow  rapidly  and 
soon  become  low-priced,  are  usually  of  a  watery 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


nature.     If  a  potato  has  any  mealiness  in  it  at  all 
it  will  show  if  cooked  this  way; 

Pare  and  put  them  on  in  cold  water,  with ,  a 
little  salt  in  it.  Boil  with  the  lid  on  till  they  will 
leave  the  fork  when  tried — about  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes.  Drain  away  the  water,  and  keep  the 
potatoes  hot  with  the  lid  on,  but  not  quite  closed. 
The  next  best  way  is  to  steam  them ;  and  pota- 
toes with  their  jackets  on  are  still  in  favor  even 
at  the  best  tables.  Potatoes  to  be  baked  should 
have  the  ends  cut  off  and  blaclc  spots  removed. 
Cutting  off  the  ends  is  supposed  to  make  them 
mealy  by  allowing  the  inside  moisture  to  escape. 
Whether  that  be  true  or  not  they  look  the  better 
for  the  attention  bestowed. 


193— Koiled  Corn  Starch  FudiUus. 

1  pint  of  milk — 3  cupfuls. 

1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

3  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  starch. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

1  egg  or  the  yolk  only. 

Flavoring  and  little  salt. 

Boil  the  milk  with  the  sugar  in  it.  Mis  the 
starch  with  a  spoonful  of  cold  milk  and  some  of 
the  hot;  stir  it  in,  and  let  cook  with  constant 
stirring  about  two  minutes.  Beat  in  the  yolk 
and  butter,  and  take  it  at  once  from  the  fire.  For 
flavoring  a  piece  of  orange  zest,  pared  thin,  may 
be  used,  or  stick  cinnamon.  Serve  with  sweet- 
ened milk  or  cream. 

This  T3udding  should  be  made  only  just  before 
it  is  wanted,  and  not  kept  hot  enough  to  cook 
more  when  once  done. 


194— To  Stew  Evaporated  App'f  s. 

The  light  colored,  better  qualities  of  dried  ap- 
ples are  made  scarcely  distinguishable  froni 
fresh  fruit  by  cooking  a  little  acid  with  thein, 
such  as  lemon  juice,  in  the  watei-,  or  some  sour 
fruit.  They  should  be  steeped  in  cold  water  be 
fore  cooking,  and  be  cooked  in  plenty  of  water 
and  the  steam  shut  in.  The  apples  are  all  the 
richer  for  having  to  stew  till  the  surplus  water,  if 
any,  is  expelled.  Dried  pears  cannot  be  cooked 
soft  unless  of  a  special  kind,  but  need  to  steep 
awhile  and  then  cook  about  an  hour. 


MENU     NO.     XIX— DINNER. 


195— Beef  Heart,  Stuflfed  and  Baked. 

Boil  the  heart  tender  first,  allowing  about  two 
or  three  hours,  and  let  the  water  be  nearly  all 
boiled  away  at  the  finish,  tbat  the  remaining 
liquor  may  be  available  for  gravj. 

Make  the  bread  stuiSng  with  onion  and  sage 
in  it  as  at  No.  30,  but  it  will  do  without  the  egg. 
When  the  heart  has  boiled  long  enough  cut  out  a 
portion  of  the  middle  and  fill  the  cavity  with 
stufiing.  Set  the  heart  in  a  pan  in  the  oven  with 
the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in,  and  salt  and  pepper 
aud  bake  brown.  Cut  the  piece  of  heart  into 
small  pieces,  put  them  tq  the  liquor  rema.iniDg 


in  the  pan  and  stir  up  with  the  fragments  of 
dressing  and  a  spoonful  of  thickening,  making  a 
savory  thick  sauce  or  I'agout. 

196— Boiled  Navy  Beans. 
Steep  a  pint  of  beans  in  water  overnight.  Put 
them  on  in  plenty  of  cold  water  to  cook,  and 
throw  in  soda  or  saleratus  the  size  of  a  bean,  Let 
boil  an  hour  and  a  half,  then  drain  off  the  hot 
water  and  fill  up  again  with  cold.  Boil  again 
till  the  beans  are  well  done.  Drain  aud  season. 
The  foregoing  will  be  found  an  effectual  method 
for  cooking  beans  soft,  no  matter  how  difficult 
the  sample  furnished  may  be. 

197— Washington  Fie. 

As  there  are  other  articles  known  by  this 
name,  it  may  be  as  well  to  state  that  this  is  a  sort 
of  brown  bread  pudding  baked  in  a  crust,  such 
as  is  sold  at  the  bakeries.^ 

1  pound  of  bread  crumbs— a  pressed-in  quart. 

8  ounces  of  molasses  or  sugar — a  teacupful. 

8  ounces  of  currants  or  raisins. 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  mixed  ground  spices,  chiefly 
cinnamon. 

3  teacupfuls  of  water. 

1  small  cupful  of  vinegar  or  hard  cider. 

8  ounces  of  suet  chopped  fine. 

3  eggs — optional. 

Mix  everything  together.  Cover  the  bottom  of 
a  baking  pan  with  a  thin  sheet  of  common  short 
paste  (No.  103),  pour  in  the  mixture  to  be  an 
inch  and  a  half  deep,  cover  with  another  tniu 
crust,  brush  over  the  top  with  milk.  Bake  to  a 
light  color  in  a  slow  oven  about  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.     Cut  out  squares  either  hot  or  cold. 


MENU    NO.   XX.— DINNER. 


198- Polato  Cream  Soup. 

3  quarts  of  souij  stocli. 

1  medium-sized  onion. 

A^knuckle  of  boiled  ham. 

3  large  potatoes, 

1  cupful  of  milk  or  cream. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Boil  the  veal  bones  named  in  the  recipe  below, 
a  soup  bone  beside,  a  small  knuckle  bone  of 
boiled  ham  or  a  slice  of  pickled  pork  and  a  soup 
bunch  of  vegetables  in  three  quarts  of  water  un- 
til it  is  reduced  to  two  quarts.  Mince  an  onion 
very  small  and  throw  it  in. 

Boil  and  mash  the  potatoes,  mix  the  milk  with 
them,  add  this  to  the  soup,  and  then  strain  it 
through  a  colander.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per and  shake  in  a  teaspoouful  of  mixed  jjarsley. 

199-Baked  lickerel  wiih  Green  Peas. 

Split  the  fish,  after  scalding  it,  down  the  back, 
and  cut  out  the  backbone,  take  off  the  head,  tail 
and  fins. 

Lay  these  boneless  sides  in  a  baking  pan  with 
a  little  salt  in  the  bottom  ftnd  ft  half  cupful  g.'' 


44 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


water,  the  skin  side  of  the  fish  upward.  Bake  it 
about  ten  minutes  and  baste  it  once  with  the 
water  in  the  pan,  then  take  out  the  pan  and  re- 
move the  skin  from  the  fish — it  peels  off  easily. 
Beat  an  egg  in  a  teacup,  put  a  little  salt  in  and 
brush  it  all  over  the  surface  and  cover  that  with 
sifted  cracker  dust  or  very  finely  crushed  dried 
bread  crumbs.  Set  it  again  in  the  oven  and 
presently  baste  the  breading  with  either  clear 
dripping  lard  or  butter.  The  fish  should  be 
done  and  handsomely  browned  in  about  twenty 
minutes.  Serve  with  a  border  of  green  peas, 
either  in  a  large  dish — the  fish  being  taken  up 
with  two  cake  turners — or  in  individual  portions 
with  the  peas  in  the  same  plate. 


300-Stnffed  Brisket  of  Veal. 

The  breast  or  brisket  of  veal  is  a  low-priced 
cut,  at  least  when  the  veal  is  large,  but  is  most 
e.icellent  when  cooked  tender.  There  is  a  large 
proportion  of  gelatinous  bone  and  tendon  good 
for  soups  and  stews.  Take  the  entire  "plate," 
as  the  butchers  call  it,  and  take  out  the  bones  by 
cutting  down  the  sides  of  the  ribs  and  along  the 
brisket  edge  with  the  point  of  a  knife,  without 
cutting  through.  Then  chop  the  bones  in  pieces 
and  use  them  in  the  soup,  as  directed  in  a  pre- 
ceding recipe.  Make  the  bread  stuffing,  No.  30 
(without  the  onion),  lay  it  on  the  broad,  bone- 
less piece  of  veal — which  may  be  made  broader 
and  evener  by  splitting  the  breast  edge  part  way 
— then  roll  up  and  tie  it  in  good  shape  with 
twine.  Put  the  rolled  veal  into  a  baldng  pan, 
with  fat  skimmed  from  the  soup,  a  little  water 
and  salt,  and  bake  with  a  greased  paper  on  top 
for  a  time,  according  to  the  size  of  the  veal — 
probably  an  hour  and  a  half.  Baste  it  with  a 
little  drippings,  roll  it  over  in  the  glaze  or  gravy 
of  the  pan  when  that  becomes  brown  at  last,  and 
make  pan  gravy  when  the  meat  is  taken  out  in 
the  usual  way, 

201— Summer   Squash, 

This  vegetable  should  always  be  steamed,  or  at 
any  rate  not  boiled  in  water,  it  being  an  object  to 
get  it  as  dry  as  possible  so  as  to  allow  the  addi- 
tion of  milk  or  cream  when  it  is  mashed.  Shave 
off  the  outside  thinly  with  a  sharp  knife;  cut 
each  squash  in  six  or  eight  pieces.  It  depends 
upon  the  age  and  distinctness  of  the  seeds 
whether  they  shonld  be  out  out  or  not ;  if  large 
enough  to  show  prominently  in  the  mashed 
squash  take  out  the  entire  core.  Squash  cooks 
in  about  half  an  hour,  and  may  be  allowed  to 
simmer  and  dry  out  more  after  mashing  and 
seasoning,  in  a  pan  set  upon  a  couple  of  bricks. 


20JJ~Steamed    Cherry  Pudding. 

Make  a  light  dough  without  shortening,  either 
the  same  as  the  buttermilk  biscuit  at  No.  177,  or 
the  potpie  dumplings  at   No.  191,  only    in    each 


case  make  the  dough  carefully,  not  to 
get  too  much  flour  mixed  in,  as  very 
soft  dough  will  prove  to  be  much 
lighter  than  that  worked  up  hard.  Grease  the 
bottom  of  a  pan  or  dish  that  will  go  in  your 
steamer,  cover  it  with  a  thin  layer  of  the  paste, 
spread  over  that  a  cupful  of  pitted  cherries  (or 
other  fruit),  cover  with  another  thin  sheet  of 
paste,  then  another  layer  of  chei'ries  and  a  cover 
of  paste  on  top.  Steam  it  an  hour  and  a  half  or 
more.  Serve  with  sugar  dip  (No.  184)  or  the 
more  expensive  hard  sauce. 


303— Hani    Sauce. 

1  large  cupful  of  powdered  sugar. 

1  small  cupful  of  fresh  butter. 

Grared  nutmeg. 

Soften  the  butter  but  not  melt  it.  Stir  it  and 
the  sugar  together  to  a  cream  as  in  making  cake. 
The  more  it  is  stirred  (if  in  a  bowl  or  dish  and 
not  in  tin)  the  whiter  it  becomes.  Spread  it  on  a 
dish  and  grate  nutmeg  on  top.  Keep  it  cold  until 
wanted. 

Good  for  all  kinds  of  puddings,  and  can  be 
colored  pink  by  adding  while  steaming  a  little 
red  fruit  juice 

S04— Covei'ed  ]l«inon  Pie. 

Cheapest  kind,  as  made  by  the  bakers.  No 
eggs  needed. 

S  ounces  of  sugar — 1  large  cupful. 

3  ounces  of  flour — 1  small  cupful. 

1  lemon. 

1  pint  of  water — 3  cupfuis. 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  lemon  into  a  small  sauce- 
pan, using  a  tin  grater  and  scraping  off  with  a 
fork  what  adheres.  Squeeze  in  the  juice,  scrape 
out  the  pulp,  chop  it,  put  in  the  water  and  boil. 
Mix  the  sugar  and  flour  toeether  dry  and  stir 
them  into  the  boiling  liquor.  When  half  thick- 
ened take  it  off  and  let  finish  in  the  pies. 

The  above  makes  two  large  pies  or  three  small. 
It  is  necessary  to  be  particular  to  get  the  right 
amount  of  flour.  The  mixture  is  pale  yellow 
from  the  rind  and  sugar. 

For  the  crust  rub  half  a  pound  of  shortening 
into  a  pound  of  flour,  mix  with  cold  water  and 
roll  out  three  times.  Put  top  as  well  as  bottom 
crust  on  these  pies. 


805- Ice  Cream  With  Pure  Cream. 

1  quart  of  cream. 

13  ounces  of  sugar. 

Flavoring  extract. 

Mix,  whip  the  cream  partly  to  froth,  pour  into 
a  freezer  that  will  hold  twice  as  much,  freeze  it 
quickly,  and  if  in  a  common  freezer  turned  by 
hand  beat  it  up  light  afterward,  cover  down  and 
let  freeze  again. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


45 


MENU    NO.  XXI— DINNER. 

306— Cauliflower  Cream  .Soup. 

1  quart,  more  or  les8,  of  soup  stock. 

1  pint  of  rich  milk. 

1  pint  cupful  of  cooked  cauliflower. 

1  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion. 

1^  blade  of  mace. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 

Salt  and  white  pepper  or  cayenne. 

1  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley. 

Cauliflower  left  over  from  a  previous  dinner 
can  be  used. 

The  clear  white  brotli  that  has  had  an  old  fowl 
boiled  tender  in  it  is  beat  for  such  a  soup  as  this. 
Any  pieces  or  bones  from  the  breakfast  or  dinner 
meats  may  be  put  into  the  stock  pot  with  it  to 
make  it  richer.  Also  add  the  scrap  of  mace  and 
a  small  allowance  of  any  soup  vegetaoles  at 
hand.  The  cauliflower  is  to  be  the  principal 
article.  If  to  be  cooked  for  the  purpose,  pick 
the  caulifiovrer  into  little  branches  and  boil  it 
separately  in  salted  water  nearly  or  quite  half  an 
hour. 

Strain  off  a  quart  of  the  stock  clear  and  free 
from  grease  into  a  saucepan,  boil  it  with  the 
minced  onion  in  it,  mash  about  half  of  the  cauli- 
flower and  put  in,  boil  the  milk  and  add  that, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  thicken,  if  not 
thick  enough  already,  till  it  looks  like  thin 
cream,  with  flour-and-water  thickening,  add  the 
butter,  the  balance  of  the  cauliflower  branches 
whole  as  they  are,  and  the  green  sprinkling  of 
pastry. 

20t— Blueflsli  Stufted  and  Baked. 

Scale  and  cleanse  the  fish,  clip  or  chop  off  the 
fins,  and  that  it  may  be  easy  to  serve  in  good 
shape  drive  the  point  of  a  knife  into  it  through 
the  bone  where  the  portions  are  to  be  taken  off. 
Dry  the  fish  inside  and  out  with  a  clean  towel, 
fill  the  inside  with  the  bread  stuifing  of  the  fol- 
lowing recipe,  sew  it  up  and  lay  it  in  a  baking- 
pan.  Put  info  the  pan  beside  it  a  slice  of  pickled 
pork,  a  small  piece  of  onion,  some  salt,  drip- 
pings or  butter  and  put  enough  water  to  keep 
the  pan  from  burning.  Bake  the  fish 
from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
basting  frequently.  Butter  in  the  pan  gives 
the  best  color  and  makes  the  best  gravy.  When 
the  fish  is  done  take  it  up  on  two  batter-cake 
turners  and  place  it  on  its  dish,  then  make  gravy 
in  the  pan  in  the  usual  way,  add  pepper  and 
strain  it  for  sauce.  Serve  some  of  the  aressmg 
with  each  portion  in  lieu  of  potatoes. 


308— Bread  Stufflins:  for  Fish. 

3  pressed-in  cupfuls  of  bread  crumbs. 
A  sprinkling  of  thyme  and  savory. 
1  teaspoonful  of  mixed  salt  and  pepper. 
1  small  cupful  of  minced  suet. 


1  small  cupful  of  warm  water. 

legg. 

Mix  all  together  in  a  pan.  Let  the  dressing 
have  a  decided  seasoning  of  pepper,  which  im- 
proves the  flavor  of  the  fish. 


309-Squab  Pie. 

6  fledgeling  pigeons. 

4  ounces  of  butter. 

1  quart  of  broth  or  water. 

Flour,  pepper  and  salt. 

1  pound  of  pie  crust. 

The  squabs  can  be  picked  dry,  but  a  little 
easier  if  scalded  Singe  and  draw,  splitting 
them  down  the  back  first,  like  broiling 
chickens,  and  then  cut  in  halves.  Wash  and 
dry  them,  flatten  a  little  with  the  side  of  the 
cleaver,  pepper  and  salt  and  flour  on  both  sides, 
then  fry  them  slightly  in  the  butter  melted  in  the 
same  baking  pan  the  pie  is  to  be  made  in. 

When  the  squabs  have  acquired  a  light  brown 
on  both  sides  pour  into  the  pan  about  a  quart  of 
broth  or  water  and  set  in  in  the  stove  that  they 
may  stew  tender  while  you  make  the  crust.  See 
whether  the  flour  on  the  birds  has  thickened  the 
liquor  sufficiently,  and  add  salt  and  pepper. 
Cover  with  a  thin  sheet  of  dough  and  bake  twenty 
or  thirty  minutes  longer. 


The  short  paste,  as  made  for  lemon  pie,  No. 
204,  is  good  for  all  sorts  of  meat  pies ;  but  for  a 
handsome  family  dish  to  be  set  on  the  table 
whole  a  covering  of  well-made  light  and  dry  puff 
paste  is  not  too  good.  There  should  not  be 
enough  gravy  in  the  dish,  however,  to  reach  the 
paste  while  baking,  as  it  would  prevent  it  from 
rising,  but  the  reserved  portion  can  be  poured  in 
when  the  pie  is  done.  For  a  family  pie  of  this 
sort  the  birds,  of  course,  have  to  be  transferred 
from  pan  to  dish  before  the  crust  is  put  on, 


310— Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Put  the  tomatoes  in  a  pan  and  pour  boiling 
water  over  to  scald  the  skins.  Let  stand  till  cool 
enough  to  handle,  then  peel  them.  Place  the 
peeled  tomatoes  in  a  colander  that  some  of  the 
surplus  liquor  may  drain  away,  after  that  set 
them  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  and  break  them 
up  with  a  spoon.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt; 
let  stew  awhile,  and  add  a  few  fine  bread  crumbs 
if  desired.  The  bread  addition  is  only  a  device 
to  thicken  the  vegetable,  and  many  people  prefer 
to  omit  it  and  make  the  tomato  thick  enough  by 
draining  first  and  stewing  down. 


311— floating:  Islands. 

Small  sponge  cakes  sliced,  the  slices  spread 
with  fruit  jelly,  placed  in  ice  cream  saucers  and 
rich  boiled  custard  poured  in  to  float  them,  and 
a  spoonful  of  whippea  cream  piled  on  top. 
The  best  may  be  made  by  the   following  recipes: 


46 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


313— Italian   Cakes. 

Make  sponge  cake  mixture  like  No.  151,  by  the 
same  mode,  with  ingredients  as  follows: 

14  ounces  of  granulated  sugar. 

13  eggs. 

10  ounces  of  flour. 

1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Lemon  extract  to  flavor. 

When  ihe  eggs  and  sugar  have  been  beaten  up 
to  more  than  twice  their  original  bulk  beat  in  the 
cream  of  tartar,  flavor,  and  lightly  stir  in  the 
flour.  Drop  portions  of  the  batter  on  sheets  of 
paper,  either  with  a  teaspoon  or  through  a  cor- 
net made  of  a  sheet  of  paper  pinned  to  shape 
and  the  point  clipped  off.  As  soon  as  the  sheet 
is  lull  sift  xjowdered  sugar  all  over  the  cakes. 
Then  take  hold  of  two  corners  of  the  sheet  of 
paper,  shake  off  the  surplus  sugar  and  put  the 
sheet  of  cakes  on  the  baking  pan.  Bake  in  a 
slack  oven  until  light  brown.  Take  off  the 
paper  by  moistening  the  under  side  with  a  brush 
dipped  in  water. 

These  cakes  are  for  the  cake  baskets,  to  have 
jelly  spread  between  twos,  to  line  molds  for  char- 
lotte-russe  and  for  floating  islands,  etc. 


ai3— Wine  Custard. 

1  quart  of  rich  milk. 

1  a  yolks  of  eggs. 

13  ounces  of  sugar. 

1  cupful  of  sweet  wine. 

Boil  the  milk  with  about  half  the  sugar  in  it. 
Beat  the  yolks  with  the  rest  of  the  sugar  until 
light  and  thick,  pour  the  boiling  milk  to  them, 
set  ou  the  fire  again  and  let  it  thicken,  but  take 
off  at  the  first  sign  of  boiling,  as  it  will  curdle  if 
allowed  to  get  too  liot.  Strain  the  custard,  and 
when  cold  add  wine  or  maraschino  for  flavoring. 
Serve  ice  cold  in  custard  cups  or  glasses,  or  in  a 
large  glass  bowl  with  jelly  cake  floating  in  it,  and 
whipped  cream  on  top,  or  in  saucers  with  small, 
round  Italian  cakes  in  the  same  way,  but  in  in- 
dividual style. 

814- Frozen  Strawberry  Puiicli. 

1  quart  of  strawberries — red,  ripe  and  sweet 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

3  cupfuls  of  water. 

1  cupful  of  sweet  wine. 

Cover  the  strawberries  with  the  sugar  and  let 
remain  some  time  to  form  a  thick  red  syrup. 
Pick  out  a  few  of  the  berries  to  be  mixed  in  the 
ice  at  least.  Kub  the  rest  through  a  strainer 
into  the  freezer  with  tlie  syrnp  and  add  the  water 
and  wine.  Freeze  as  usual.  This  is  punch 
f rappe ;  but  if  to  be  a  la  Komaine  whip  the 
whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  firm,  froth  and  mix 
them  in  after  freezing  and  beat  up  weE  In 
either  case  mix  in  the  reserved  berries  lightly 
just  before  serving.  They  are  not  good  if  hard 
frozen  in  it     Serve  in  glasses. 


MENU   NO.   XXII— SUPPER. 


One  of  the  odd  institutions  of  the  city,  is  a 
"Cliioago  Mush  Company,"  brought  into  being,  of 
course  through  the  dislike  people  have  of  doing 
their  own  cooking,  or,  perhaps,  the  inconveni- 
ence of  carrying  on  prolonged  operations  like 
that  of  cooking  cornmeal  till  thoroughly  done. 
The  "Mush  Company"  furnishes  the  retail  stores 
with  pans  of  cold  mush,  presumably  well-cooked 
h\'  steam,  marked  into  five-cent  blocks,  and 
ready  for  the  purchaser  either  to  warm  up  with 
water,  or  slice  and  fry.  Some  people  will  still, 
probably,  continue  to  make  their  mush  at  home. 

Mu3h  or  porridge  of  cornmeal  is  by  no  means 
the  peculiarly  American  dish  it  is  generally  sup- 
posed to  be,  the  co-n-raising  peoples  of  Europe 
making  it  not  only  in  its  simple  form  but  in 
dishes  of  considerable  pretentions,  under  the 
name  of  polenta,  mixed  with  cheese,  with  meat, 
with  herbs  and  mushrooms  and  even  with  truffles, 
and  baked,  fried,  steamed  in  shape,  and  made 
the  most  of  in  every  way. 

Well  cooked  mush  is  one  of  the  things  most 
rarely  met  with,  but  when  to  be  had,  made  as 
good  as  it  can  be,  is  found  at  public  tables  to  be 
in  better  demand  than  many  articles  of  food  that 
cost  ten  times  as  much. 


31.5— Com  Meal  Mush. 

2  quarts  of  water. 

12  ounces  of  corn  meal — 2  cupfuls. 

1  rounded  tablespoonful  of  salt 

Where  the  mush  has  to  be  made  on  a  cook 
stove,  a  east  pot  with  feet,  to  raise  the  bottom  an 
inch  from  the  tire,  is  the  best  vessel  to  use.  It 
lessens  the  tendency  to  burn  and  reduces  the 
waste  if  the  inside  is  brushed  over  with  a  touch 
of  lard  or  drippings.  Put  the  salt  in  the  water, 
boil,  and  sprinkle  the  dry  meal  in  with  one  hand 
while  yoti  beat  with  an  egg-heater  or  spoon  in 
the  other  Put  on  the  lid,' and  let  simmer  with 
the  steam  shut  in  for  about  three  hours. 

Doitble  the  quantity  needed  for  one  meal 
should  be  made  and  half  put  away  to  become 
cold  to  fry.  For  this  purpose  very  slightly 
grease  a  pan,  press  the  mush  in  evenly,  and 
slightly  brush  over  with  melted  lard  again.  No 
matter  how  little  the  grease,  it  prevents  the 
formation  of  a  crust  by  drying  on  top. 

Each  quart  of  cold  mush  will  cut  into  about 
ten  slices  or  blocks  for  frying. 


31G— Smoked   Hatlilock,   or  Finnan   Haddies. 

The  favorite  way  of  cooking,  when  it  is 
cooked  at  all,  is  by  broiling.  Brush  the  fish 
over  with  butter  and  pepper  it  well,  then  broil 
or  toast  until  it  is  cooked  through.  But  it  is 
equally  good  this  way:  Pour  boiling  water  over 
the  fish  from  the  tea  kettle,  take  it  out  of  the 
water,  lay  it  in  a  baking  pan,  brush  over  with  a 
little  butter,  pepper  it  well  and  bake  in  ahotoven 
about  eight  or  ten  minutes. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


47 


317— Broiled    llvpr. 

Slice  the  liver  thinly,  pepper  and  salt  the 
slices,  die  them  iu  a  little  melted  drippings  on  a 
plate  and  broil  in  the  wire  toister  over  a  clear 
fire.  Where  there  is  no  convenience  for  broil- 
ing over  coals  the  slices,  after  being  dipped, 
may  be  laid  in  a  baking  pan,  baited  on  the  top 
shelf  iu  the  stove  oven,  and  when  the  top  is 
browned  turned  over,  and  the  liver  will  be  as 
good  as  if  broiled,  much  better  for  a  supper  dish 
than  if  fried  in  fat,  and  not  needing  bacon  to 
mane  it  palatable. 

318-Vienuii  KoUs. 

2  pounds  of  flour. 

2  cnpfuls  of  millt. 

J^  caite  of  eompresaed  yeast,  or  J^  cupful  of 
pstato  yeast. 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar. 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt. 

Make  the  milk  lukewarm  and  dissolve  the  yeast 
in  it.  Set  sponge  at  9  in  the  morning,  at  noon 
add  the  salt  and  sugar  and  make  up  stiff  dough. 
Let  rise  till  about  4.  Then  work  the  dough  well 
on  the  table  by  pressing  out  and  folding  over. 

Roll  out  the  dough  in  one  large  sheet  as  thin  as 
you  can,  which  will  be  about  the  thinness  of  a 
dinner  plate  edge;  then,  measuring  with  your 
hand,  cut  the  dough  into  strips  or  bands  as  wide 
across  as  your  hand  is  long.  Cut  tnese  again  into 
triangular  pieces  for  rolls,  not  equal  sided  but 
long  and  narrow  triangles.  Roll  these  triangular 
pieces  up,  beginning  at  the  broad  bottom  end. 
and  the  point  will  come  up  in  the  middle,  and 
there  will  be  a  spiral  mark  around  from  end  to 
end. 

Give  each  roll  a  few  turns  under  the  hands  to 
smooth  it  and  place  it  on  the  frying  pan  in  the 
the  form  of  a  crc-ioent — just  the  shape  and  size 
of  the  new  moon.  Brush  over  with  water  or 
melted  lard.  Let  rise  in  the  pans  about  half  an 
hour  and  bake  about  ten  minutes. 


VIENKA  KOLLS. 


219— Baked  Apples. 

10  apples. 
4  ounces  of  sugar. 
Butter  size  of  an  egg. 
Half-cup  of  water. 
Grating  of  nutmeg. 

Cut  oft  a  slice  of  paring  from  the  top  and  bot- 
tom of  each  apple,  core,  but  do  not  pare  them, 


place  in  a  pan,  put  the  sugar  in  the  cni-o  holes 
and  the  nutmeg  and  butter  on  tip,  add  tlie 
water  and  bake  and  baste  frequently  wuh  their 
own  syrup  till  done.  The  syrup  at  last  should 
be  thick  as  .jelly  and  may  be  served  with  the 
apples.  A  bright  pan  or  dish  should  he  used. 
A  sheet  of  greased  paper  laid  on  top  will  keep 
the  fruit  from  blistering  and  blackening  before 
it  is  baked  through. 


330-SiionsB  GliiKerbread. 

8  ounces  of  molasses — a  teacupf  ul. 

y  large  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

4  oimces  of  butter — a  teacupf  ul,  small. 

1  cupful  of  milk. 

H  eggs. 

1  large  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger. 

1  large  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

1  pound  or  quart  of  flour. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  milk  made  warm,  and 
pour  them  into  the  molasses  and  sugar,  mix, 
add  the  eggs,  the  ginger  and  iJowder,  and  lastly 
the  flour. 

It  is  a  great  improvement  to  beat  the  cake 
thoroughly  with  a  spoon.  It  is  too  soft  to  be 
handled.  Spread  it  an  inch  thick  in  a  buttered 
pan  or  mold.     Bake  twenty  or  thirty  minutes. 


231— Brown  Ginser  Co.ikirs,    Good  C 

Quarter  pound  of  buttei-. 
Quarter  pound  of  sugar. 
Quarter  pound  of  black  molasses. 
2  eggs. 

1  tablespoonful  of  ground  ginger. 
Quarter  cupfnl  of  water. 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

1  pound  or  quart  of  iiour,  or  enough  to  make 
soft  dough. 

Mix  the  ingredients  in  the  order  they  are  named 
in,  roll  out  and  cut  with  a  small  cutter. 

MENU  NO.  XXIII— BREAKFAST. 


220— About  BreadiriK. 

Breading  an  article  consists  in  making 
either  fine  bread  crumbs  or  the  meal  of  crushed 
crackers,  or  sometimes  corn  meal  adhere  to  the 
surface  while  it  is  fried,  giving  it  a  crisp  coating. 
It  is  usual  to  dip  the  article  first  in  egg  or  egg 
and  water,  but  experienced  cooks  have  several 
other  expedients  to  save  eggs,  such  as  dipping  in 
the  flour  and  water  batter,  or  in  cream  sauce,  or. 
when  the  thing  to  be  breaded  is  a  croquette  con- 
taining eggs  already  by  balling  them  up  in 
cracker  meal  without  dipping  at  all. 

Where  the  time  is  not  worth  more  than  the 
material,  the  dry  slices  of  bread  left  over  should 
be  dried  to  a  crisp  in  a  warm  place,  then  rolled 
or  pounded  fine  and  run  through  a  sieve.  Rolls 
and  gems  containing  sugar  will  not  answer  for 
the  purpose,  the  crumbs  soon  turniug  too  dark  in 
the  frying.  The  use  and  intention  of  breading 
meats  and  fish  is  to  inclose  the  juices  and  flavors 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


in  the  crisp  envelope  of  egg  and  orumba,  to  ac- 
complish which  the  articles  must  be  dropped 
into  clear  lard  or  other  fat  that  la  hot  enough  al- 
ready to  hiss  sharply  when  a  drop  of  water 
touches  it.  The  fat  is  too  hot  when  it  smokes, 
so  that  the  smoke  can  be  seen,  and  will  discolor 
anything  attempted  to  be  fried  in  it.  If  properly 
done,  breaded  fish  and  cutlets  come  out  as  dry 
and  free  from  grease  as  the  crust  of  a  loaf 

Sometimes,  when  potato  croquettes  or  cro- 
quettes of  chicken  or  rice,  or  codfish  balls  and 
the  like  are  made  accidentally  too  soft  to  be  fried 
by  merely  rolling  in  flour,  thi'V  can  be  finished 
very  satisfactorily  by  rolling  in  egg  and 
crumbs. 


231-Eels  Breaded  and  Frii  d. 

Eels,  eel-pouts,  and  similar  fish  can  al- 
ways be  had  ready  skinned  for  cooking,  in  the 
market.  Eels  of  large  size  should  lie  split  length 
wise,  and  the  bone  taken  out,  which  is  done  by 
pressing  the  fi.sh  on  the  table  with  one  hand 
while  the  knife  .in  the  other  is  guided  by  tlie 
spine  bone  and  run  along  horizontally  ou  both 
sides  of  it 

Then  cut  the  strips  into  three-inch  lengths, 
dredge  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip  each  piece  in  an 
egg  beaten  with  half  as  much  water,  tbea  in  the 
cracker  meal — with  cave  not  to  rub  and  make 
bare  spots,  which  will  spoil  the  breading— and 
when  the  lard  is  hot  drop  them  in  and  fry  about 
live  minutes.  Garnish  with  parsley  either  plain 
or  fried  and  serve  with  potatoes. 


282-Saratoffa  Chip  Potatoes. 

Potatoes  sliced  thick  are  not  Saratogas 
though  generally  so  called.  The  true  chips 
are  as  thin  as  paper  and  curl  ap  when  fried. 
Tliey  are  used  cold  as  well  as  hot,  and  may  be 
prepared  before  wanted  and  kept  a  considerable 
time.  It  is  necessary  to  have  clean  fi'esh  lard 
and  potatoes  of  good  quality  to  get  Saratoga 
chips  of  good  color  and  the  proper  crispness. 
They  should  be  put  in  before  the  lard  gets  very 
hot,  have  time  to  dry  out  in  it,  and  when  yellow 
should  be  drained  in  a  colander,  set  in  a  pan 
and  salt  sprinkled  over. 


2S3— Broiled  Liver  and  Bacon. 

It  is  too  wasteful  and  untidy  to  broil  the  bacon, 
unless  in  the  restaurants,  where  the  customers 
are  charged  for  the  waste.  Half  the  bacon  goes 
away  in  fat  and  flames.  Fry  the  slices  in  a  small 
frying  pan,  dip  the  liver  in  the  fat,  lay  it  on  the 
broiler  over  clear  coals,  pepper  and  salt  while  it 
is  cooking,  and  serve  a  slice  of  the  fried  bacon  on 
top  of  each  piece. 

224— Fried  Musli. 

The  mush  put  away  in  a  can  over  night  can  be 
turned  out  on  to  the  table  after  setting  the  pan 
a  moment  on  the  stove  top  tn  warm.  Cut  blocks 
or  slices,  dip   tht-m  in  egg  and   then  cover  with 


cracker  meal  or  fine  bread  crumbs  and  drop 
them  into  hot  lard  or  drippings. 


225— To  Fry  Musli  Without  Breadins. 

Roll  the  pieces  in  flour  and  let  them  lie  in  it 
a  while  to  become  well  coated,  then  drop  them 
into  lard  or  drippings  that  is  liot  enough  to  brown 
the  outside  instantly. 

Thin  slices  may  also  be  rolled  in  flour  and 
browned  on  a  greased  oalce  griddle. 


336-\Vheat    Muffins. 

These  are  very  fine  and  well  worth  knowing 
how  to  make. 

1  pound  of  light  bread  dough. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

1  basting  spoonful  of  milk. 

1  teaspoonful  of  sugai'. 

3  yolks — or  1  egg. 

1  ounce  of  flour. 

Little  salt. 

Take  tlie  piece  of  dough — about  two  large 
cupfuls — from  your  light  bread  that  was  set  to 
rise  over  night.  Two  hours  before  breakfast 
work  in  the  ingredients  named  and  beat  the  stiff 
batter  thus  made  against  the  side  of  the  pan 
until  it  is  very  elastic  and  smooth.  Let  rise  in  a 
warm  place  about  an  hour. 

The  nuiffiu  rings  should  be  two  inches  across 
and  one  inch  deep.  Grease  them,  set  in  a  greased 
pan,  half  fill  with  the  batter,  which  should  be 
thin  enough  to  settle  down  smooth,  but  thick 
enough  not  to  run  under  the  nngs;  let  rise  half 
an  hour,  bake  ten  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


237-Mufflns  from  the  Besrinninff. 

When  there  is  no  dough  ready  made  the  muffins 
can  be  mixed  over  night  with  these  ingredients 
and  thoroughly  beaten  in  the  morning: 

2  heaping  cupfuls  of  flour. 

1  small  cupful  of  yeast  and  water. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

2  yolks  of  eggs. 
Salt. 

The  batter  should  be  too  soft  to  handle,  yet  not 
thin  enough  to  run. 

228— Corn  Batter  Cakes. 

2  cupfuls  of  white  corn  meal. 

1  cupful  of  flour. 

2  cupfuls  of  milk  or  wafer, 
legg 

1  bastingspoonful  of  melted  lard. 

A  little  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Make  a  hollow  in  the  middle  of  the  meal  and 
floiu-,  put  in  all  the  other  ingredients  and  stir  up 
smooth. 

When  there  is  no  milk  to  mix  up  with  add  a 
spoonful  of  syrup  to  make  the  cakes  brown  easily 
on  the  griddle. 

It  is  practicable  to  bake    batter-cakes    without 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


40 


greasing  the  griddle.     It  need  only   be    rubbed 
with  a  cloth  after  each  baking. 


339-ChncoIate. 

1  quart  of  milk  and  water. 

1  ounce  of  chocolate. 

Boil  the  milk  and  water  in  a  small,  bright 
saucepan.  Scrape  down  an  ounce  aa  marked  on 
the  half-pound  cakes  of  common  chocolate, 
throw  it  in  and  beat  with  a  wire  egg  whisk  about 
one  minute,  or  till  the  chocolate  is  all  dissolved. 
Send  it  in  as  soon  as  made,  if  practicable;  but  if 
kept  on  hand  set  it  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but 
not  boil.  

MENU    NO.    XXIV.— DINNER. 
S33— Tomato  Soup. 

2  quarts  of  soup  stock. 

1  cupful  of  stewed  tomatoes. 

1  small  cupful  of  minced  vegetables. 

(5  cloves. 

1  tablespoonful  of  minced  parsley. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Little  flour  thickening. 

The  soup  stock  may  be  the  liquor  in  which  a 
piece  of  beet'  or  mutton  is  boiled  for  dinner, 
with  the  addition  of  other  raw  scaps  and  pieces, 
such  as  the  bones  and  gristly  ends  of  a  beef- 
steak. An  hour  before  dinner  time  take  out  the 
meat  and  strain  the  stock  through  a  tine  strainer 
into  the  soup  pot.  Cut  a  piece  of  carrot,  turnip 
and  onion  into  small  dice  and  throw  in  and  let 
cook  till  done,  add  the  cloves  and  cup  of 
tomatoes,  pepper  and  salt,  thickening  and  the 
parsley  at  last. 

It  is  generally  considered  a  reproach  to  say  the 
soup  is  thin,  and  our  people  have  to  be  educated 
up  to  the  appreciation  of  the  thin  soups  of  the 
French.  A  proper  medium  should  be  observed. 
A  spoonful  of  flour  gives  the  smoothness  and 
substance  required  without  destroying  the  clear- 
ness ot  the  soup. 

Tomatoes  stewed  down  after  seasoning  with 
salt,  pepper  and  butter,  are  a  different  article 
from  the  freshly  prepared  and  impart  a  new 
richness  to  soup. 

333— Fried  Bass  with  Hacoii. 

Scale  and  clean  the  fish,  chop  off  the  fins,  and 
if  small  cook  them  without  cutting;  if  large, 
split  them  lengthwise  and  out  across  making  four. 

Pepper  and  salt  the  pieces,  roll  them  in  flour 
and  let  lie  iu  it  imtil  the  last;  drop  them  into  a 
pan  of  hot  lard  and  let  fry  from  five  minutes  up- 
ward according  to  size. 

Fry  a  slice  of  breakfast  baoon  for  each  piece 
of  fish  in  another  pan  and  send  in  the  bacon  on 
the  fish  and  a  garnish  of  parsley  and  plain  boiled 
Ttotatoes. 

334  -Boiled  Beef  with  Hor-eradiih. 

A  fat,  unctuous,  gristly  piece  of  the  brisket  or 
"p  ate"  is  best  for  this,  or  the  rib  ends  that  are 


sawn  off  a  rib  roast.  Boil  it  slowly  for  at  least 
three  hours;  have  a  little  salt  in  the  water  (which 
is  afterwards  to  be  used  to  make  soup).  Grate 
or  finely  scrape  down  a  stick  of  horseradish,  put 
it  in  a  bowl  with  vinegar  and  water  enough  to 
cover,  and  use  it  for  sauce. 


335— Lnrded  Liver  with  Onions. 

Calf's  liver  is  the  best  Take  a  niece  of  liver 
and  about  one-third  as  much  bacon  or  salt  pork. 
Cut  the  bacon  into  strips  about  the  size  of  a  pen- 
cil and  draw  them  through  the  liver  with  a  lard- 
ing needle,  or  if  no  needle  is  haildy  push  the 
strips  of  bacon,  cut  pointed,  into  holes  made ' 
with  a  narrow  knife  or  a  steel.  The  closer  the 
strips  and  the  more  of  them  the  better,  and  let 
the  larding  be  done  so  that  the  slices  can  be 
cut  across  it  after  cooking;  place  the  liver  in 
the  oven  iu  a  baking  pan  .  with  a 
little  drippings  and  a  greased  paper  laid  on 
top  to  keep  it  moist,  and  cook  half  an  hour  or 
more,  according  1 1  size.  Serve  in  slices  either 
with  roasted  onions  (No.  187)  or  fried  onions,  or 
a  mild  onion  sauce  poured  under. 


336— J'an'aaovvei'  in  Cream. 

Cauliflower  takes  from  half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  to  cook  done.  It  should  not  boil 
rapidly  enough  to  destroy  the  small  flowerets. 
Try  the  stems  with  a  fork  and  take  off  when 
tender.  A  lump  of  baking  soda  the  size  of  a  bean 
in  the  water  will  hasten  the  cooking  without  in- 
juring the  vegetable. 

Divide  the  cauliflower  into  portions  of  con- 
venient size  before  cooking,  and  when  drained 
and  dished  up  pour  a  spoonful  or  two  of  good, 
strained  cream  sauce  (iSo.  106)  over  each  portion. 


337— Eks  I'laiit  Plain  Fvied-(Saute(!d.) 

Slice  the  egg  plant,  without  paring,  into  five 
or  six,  throwing  away  only  the  end  parings.  Boil 
the  slices  in  salted  water  a  few  minutes  to  extract 
the  strong  taste,  drain  tbem,  and  while  still  moist 
dip  both  sides  iu  flour,  then  fry  brown  in  a  fry- 
iugpan  with  a  little  drippings.  They  are  served 
as  a  vegetable,  like  fried  parsnips,  etc. 

338— Macaroni  with  Tomatoes. 

4  ounces  of  macaroni. 

1  ounce  of  grated  cheese. 

l{  cupful  of  thick  stewed  tomatoes. 

}^  cupful  of  brown  meat  gravy. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

This  is  a  favorite  way  with  the  Italians.  The 
dish  need  not  be  baked.  They  simply  boil  the 
macaroni  and  then  make  it  rich,  not  to  say 
greasy,  with  the  other  articles  and  gravy  from 
the  meat  dishes. 

Break  the  macaroni  into  three-inch  lengths, 
throw  it  into  boiling  water  and  let  cook  twenty 
minutes.  Draiu  it,  put  it  into  a  baking  jiau,  mix 
in  the  grated  cheese,  the  tamatoes,  the  gravy, 
salt  and    pepper    and,  if  necessary,  a   lump  oi 


50 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


butter.  Mix  up  and  let  simmer  together  about 
half  an  hour,  either  in  a  slack  oven  or  on  the 
stove  hearth.  It  will  be  all  eaten  if  not  made 
too  strong  flavored  with  tomatoes  or  too 
salt — the  common  mistakes. 


839— Spanish   Puff  Fritters. 

At  No.  33  we  had  queen  fritters,  or  puff 
fritters  of  a  rather  plain  sort  This  variety  is 
sweet,  and  the  harder  to  fry  without  burning, 
but  is  rich  and  round-shaped. 

1^  pint  of  water — 1  cupful. 

3}^  ounces  of  butter — }{  cupful. 

2  tablespoonsful  of  sugar — 1}4  ounces. 
5  ounces  of  iiour — a  heaping  cupful. 

3  large  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract 

Boil  the  water  with  the  sugar  and  butter  in  it 
in  a  deep  saucepan.  Drop  in  the  iiour  all  at 
once  and  stir  the  mixture  over  the  tire  till  you 
have  a  firm,  well-cooked  paste.  Take  it  from 
the  fire  and  work  in  the  eggs  one  at  a  time  with 
a  spoon,  and  beat  the  paste  well  against  the  side 
of   the  saucepan.     Add   the  vanilla  with  the  last 

egg- 
Drop  pieces  as  large  as  guinea  eggs  into  hot 
lard  in  a  saucepan  and  let  fry  slowly.  Only  four 
or  five  at  a  time,  as  they  expand  after  a  few 
minute's  cooking  and  need  all  the  room.  Serve 
either  with  powdered  sugar  sifted  over  or  a  rich 
pudding  sauce.     (No.  34. ) 


240— Sliced  Apple  Pie. 

Use  this  way  only  the  best  ripe  cooking  ap- 
ples. Pare  and  core  and  slice  them  thin  across 
the  core  hole,  making  rings.  Fill  paste-lined  pie 
pans  about  two  layers  deep.  Thinly  cover  the 
apple  slices  witli  sugar,  and  grate  nutmeg  over. 
Put  in  each  pie  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  a 
large  spoonful  of  water.  Bake  without  a  top 
crust  slowly  and  dry.  The  apples  become  trans- 
parent and  half  candied. 


^41-  Baked  Indian  Fuddiiie. 

This  is  the  richest  of  cornmeal  puddings,  and 
everybody's  favorite. 

1  quart  of  milk  or  water. 

6  ounces  of  corn  meal — a  teacupfuL 

.5  ounces  of  butter — a  teacupful. 

1  small  teacupful  of  black  molasses. 

1  small  lemon,  juice  andgratod  rind. 

6  ej^gs  well  beaten. 

Butter  the  bottom  of  a  kettle  and  make  mush 
in  it  of  the  milk  and  meal,  and  let  it  simmer  with 
the  steam  shut  in  an  hour  or  tMjO.  Then  mix  in 
the  other  ingredients  and  bake  about  half  an 
hour. 


343— Lemon  Sherbet. 

1  quart  of  water. 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

2  large  lemons. 

3  whites  of  eggs. 

Grate  the  rinds  of  the  lemons  into  a  bowl  and 
squeeze  in  the  juice.  Make  a  boiling  syritp  of 
the  sugar  and  half  the  water  and  pour  it  hot  to 
the  lemon  zest  and  juice  and  let  remain  bo  tdl 
cold,  or  as  long  as  convenient,  to  draw  the  flavor. 
Then  add  the  rest  of  the  water,  strain  into  a 
freezer,  freeze  as  usual,  and  when  it  is  pretty 
well  frozen  whip  the  whites  to  a  froth,  mix  them 
in,  beat  up  and  freeze  again. 


243-Sm;,lI   Ci 


Caki 


Make  the  cheap,  but  excellent  and  very  use- 
ful cake  mixture  at  No.  oO.  Slightly  grease  some 
baking  pans  and  drop  the  batter  by  tabiespoou- 
fuls  to  form  little  round  cakes.  Sprinkle  granu- 
lated sugar  on  top  of  each  one.  Bake  in  a  slack 
oven.  The  cakes  run  out  rather  thin  and  deli- 
cate and  should  have  plenty  of  room.  Take  off 
with  a  knife  when  cold  and  place  twos  together 
with  pastry  cream  (No.  54)  spread  between. 


MENU     NO.    XXV.— TEA. 


244-Salt  Macl£errl  Boiled. 

There  is  as  much  difference  between  njackerel 
boiled  soft  and  boiled  hard  as  between  eggs  sim- 
ilarly cooked.  If  you  would  have  mackerel  ten- 
der, as  well  as  of  good  color,  put  it  on  to  cook  in 
cold  water  and  take  it  off  as  soon  as  it  begins  to 
boil.  It  is  best  if  it  can  be  cooked  to  order,  or 
only  as  wanted,  as  it  becomes  hard  and  curls  out 
of  shape  with  standing  long  in  the  water.  Mack 
erel  looks  best  if  cut  across,  uot  lengthwise,  each 
fish  maliing  three  portions.  Disk  the  s!du  side 
up  and  a  spoonful  of  melted  butter  over  it 


Mackerel  put  in  water  to  freshen  will  hardly 
keep  sweet  twelve  hours  unless  ice  water  be 
used  or  the  vessel  set  in  the  refrigerator.  It 
should  remain  in  water  at  least  twenty-four 
hours,  and  be  changed  once  or  twice.  After  that 
if  any  are  wanted  to  brod,  they  should  be  hung 
up  to  dry  one  meal  ahead. 


345— Salt  Macl.eri-l  Broiled. 

Di/ide  the  fis'h  lengthwise,  and,  if  of  the 
largest  size,  again  into  quarters.  Broil  over 
clear  coals,  or  toast  before  the  fire  in  the  hinged 
wire  broder,  browning  the  inside  first  Serve  the 
brown  skin  side  uppermost,  with  a  spoonful  of 
melted  butter  poured  over.  It  should  cook  ia 
iivo  minutes. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


51 


246— Calf's  Liver  a  la  Brochette. 

Take  a  tbin  slice  of  liver  and  one  of  breakfast 
bacon  for  each  person  and  cut  them  into  little 
square  pieces  as  nearly  of  one  size  as  may  be 
and  place  them;  on  tinned  skewers,  a  piece  of 
liver  and  a  piece  of  bacon  alternately  till  the 
skewers  are  full.  Dredge  with  pepper,  place 
them  m  a  dripping  pan  in  the  oven,  turn  them 
over  two  or  three  times  while  they  are  cooking 
and  when  done  place  the  liver  and  bacon  on  long 
pieces  of  buttered  toast  already  in  a  dish,  hold 
in  place  with  a  fork  while  you  draw  out  the 
skewers,  then  send  it  in. 


S47— Potted  Veal,  or  Veal  Loaf. 

We  have  to  make  such  minced  dishes  as  this 
by  rule  and  measure,  lest  they  be  too  soft  to 
slice  when  cold  or  too  much  the  other  way  to  be 
good  eating: 

6  ounces  of  mixed  cold  veal — a  cupful 

1  ounce  of  bacon  or  knuckle  of  ham. 

1  ounce  of  butter. 

legg. 

Salt,  pepper,  grating  of  nutmeg,  and  little 
lemon  juice. 

Shave  all  the  outside  off  the  cooked  veal  (or 
other  white  meat)  before  mincing  it  Add  a  thin 
slice  of  raw  bacon  and  a  few  shreds 
of  cooked  lean  ham,  if  convenient,  for  flavor, 
and  when  all  are  finely  chopped  add  the  rest  of 
the  ingredients  and  season  well  with  pepper. 
Make  up  in  a  little  loaf  shape,  smooth  it  over 
and  bake  in  a  dripping  pr n  about  hall  an  hour. 
It  may  be  eaten  hot  with  gravy  or  kept  and 
sliced  cold  for  tea  or  supper. 


Various  kinds  of  sausages  are  made  with  part 
cooked  meat  and  part  raw,  and  with  additions  of 
bacon  or  ham  and  powdered  bay  leaf  for  season- 
ing. When  cold  meat  is  minced  there  must  be  a 
binding  ingredient  added,  else  it  will  fall  apart  in 
the  baking  and  be  unsavory  eating.  The  preced- 
ing recipe  requires  an  egg.  This  is  very  nice, 
and  firmer  to  slice  with  half  raw  meat  and  no  egg. 


348— Veal  Loaf,  or  Potted  Veal. 

4  ounces  of  cooked  meat^ 

4  ounces  of  raw  veal. 

1  ounce  of  raw  fat  bacon. 

Shreds  of  lean  ham  for  flavoring. 

A  pinch  of  powdered  bay  leaf. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Mince  and  mix  all  together ;  make  up  in  a  ball 
and  bake  half  an  hour.  To  be  eaten  either  hot 
or  cold. 


249— Cauliflower  Salad. 

Take  cauliflower  left  over  from  dinner,  or  else 
pull  a  head  apart  into  suitable  sized  bunches,  and 
boil  them  in  salted  water  about  three-quarters  of 
an  hour,  drain  and  set  away  to  get  oojd,     Then 


put  it  into  a  howl  containing  the  followiug  salad 
dressing,  and  when  to  be  sewed  dip  out  the 
pieces  well  coated  with  it  and  place  them  neatly 
in  a  pile  on  a  flat  dish  and  ornament  the  edges. 


2S0-Salad  DressiiiK  Without  Oil. 

J^  cupful  of  vinegar. 

y{  cupful  of  water. 

}4  cupful  of  butter — 3  ounces. 

J^  cupful  of  yolks  of  eggs — 5  yolks. 

1  fablespoonful  of  made  mustard 

Salt  and  cayenne. 

Boil  the  vinegar,  water,  butter  and  salt  to- 
gether in  a  bright  saucepan,  beat  the  yolks,  and 
add  to  them  some  of  the  boiling  liquid,  then  pour 
all  into  the  saucepan,  stir  rapidly,  and  in  a  few 
seconds,  or  as  soon  as  the  mixture  becomes 
thick  aud  smooth,  like  softened  butter,  take  it 
from  the  fire.  Add  the  mustard  aud  cayenne, 
and  make  it  ice  cold  for  use. 


251— Sally  Lunn  Tea  Cakes. 

30  ounces  of  light  dough — about  3  cupfula. 

3  ounces  of  butter — }4  cupful. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

1  whole  egg  and  1  yolk. 

}i  cupful  of  milk. 

1  cupful  of  flom- — 4  ounces. 

Take  the  dough  either  from  the  rolls  or  bread 
or  procured  from  the  baker's,  at  about  1  or  2 
o'clock,  and  work  in  the  enriching  ingredients, 
then  add  the  flour  and  beat  thoroughly.  It 
makes  dough  too  soft  to  be  kneaded,  and  like 
fritter  hatter. 

Rise  3  hours.  Beat  again.  Divide  it  into  3 
pie  pans.  Else  half  an  hour.  Bake  about  15 
minutes.  Brush  over  the  top  witli  a  little  good 
butter.  Cut  in  pieces  like  pie,  but  carefully 
with  up  and  down  strokes  witli  a  sharp  knife, 
not  to  crush  the  spongy  cake.     Serve  hot 


Excepting  only  ice  cream  the  pastrycooks 
produce  nothing  that  is  so  unusually  acceptable 
as  the  charlotte  russe.  Everywhere,  from  the 
places  of  the  grand  banquets  to  the  shops  where 
it  is  exchangeable  for  a  5-cent  piece,  it  is  seen 
constantly  in  one  form  or  another.  I'here  are 
several  varieties  to  be  made  m  tbis  article,  and 
since  it  must  appear  and  is  welcome  often,  we 
may  go  a  little  out  of  the  way  to  avoid  the  ready- 
made  appearance  of  tiie  shop  article  in  these  we 
make  ourselves.  The  prime  necessity  for  mak- 
ing charlotte  ruase  is  commonly  supposed  to 
be  pure  sweet  cream.  Nevertheless  it  is 
not  difficult  to  do  without  that  scarce 
article.  A  few  months  ago  a  pastry  cook  from 
Chicago  was  sent  for  to  take  a  situation  in  a  hotel 
in  another  city  some  600  miles  away,  his  fare  aud 
expenses  paid,  and  he  went  prepared  for  work. 
Yet  before  a  week  had  passed  he  was  hack  in 
Chicago    again— could  not  work  there.     There 


52 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


were  small  obstacles  in  the  way,  sncU  as  the  lack 
of  a  suitable  oven,  but  thesreat,  iusm-mountable 
difficulty  that  caused  him  to  travel  over  1,200 
miles  for  nothing  and  squander  his  cash  getting 
home  again  was,  tliey  Avanted  him  to  make  char- 
lotte russe  without  cream.  Yet,  the  other  day  I 
weut  into  tlie  ]iastry  room  of  one  of  the  largest 
Chicago  hotels  and  saw  there  over  150 
individual  charlottes  standing  ready  for  the  din- 
ner, and  being  apt  to  observe  such  things  I 
thought  a  large  number  wore  sliglitly  different 
in  the  color  of  the  cream  from  the  others  and 
looked  firmer,  and  the  pastry  cook  guessing  my 
question  said :  "I  hadn't  enough  cream,  and  had 
to  make  a  cream  for  the  rest "  So  it  shows  there 
are  ways  of  making  charlotte  russe  both  with 
and  without  cream,  which  it  will  be  useful  to 
know,  for  the  solid  fact  of  the  matter  is  that  at 
public  tables  the  charlottes  filled  with  the  vari- 
ous made  creams,  if  they  are  well  and  delicately 
made,  are  received  every  whit  as  well  as  "ihose 
filled  with  pure  whipped  cream ;  it  is  rather  a 
matter  of  more  or  less  trouble  in  making  than  a 
question  of  difference  of  quality,  in  this  and 
the  three  or  four  menus  next  to  follow  we  will 
show  the  various  ways  of  making  charlotte 
russe. 

S.'iS— Charlotte  Ku.sse. 

Individual  size.  White  cake  cases  filieu  with 
yellow  cream.     For  the  cake  take 

10  ounces  of  granulated  sugar. 

12  ounces  of  white  of  eggs— 13  whites. 
0  ounces  of  flotir. 
2  large  teaspoonfnls  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Flavoring  of  vanilla  extract 

This  is  a  very  delicate  white  sponge  cake. 
Have  the  ingredients  all  cold  to  begin  with. 
Put  the  sugar  and  white  of  eggs  into  a  brass 
kettle  or  deep  pan  and  beat  them  together  with 
the  wire  egg  whisk  for  about  twenty  minutes. 
If  bealen  rapidly  in  a  cool  place  the  mixture 
will  then  be  like  good  cane  frosting.  Then  add 
the  cream  of  tartar  and  flavoring  and  beat  a  min- 
ute longer,  then  lay  aside  the  whisk  and  stir  the 
flour  in  with  a  spoon.  As  soon  as  the  flour  is 
mixed  out  of  sight  it  is  ready  and  should  be 
baked  immediately. 

Lay  a  sheet  of  manilla  paper  on  the  largest 
baking-pan  and  spread  the  cake  batter  on  it  only 
dejp  enough  to  hide  the  paper.  Bake  about  five 
minutes.  Lay  the  sheet-cake  downwards  on  the 
table,  wet  the  paper  and  take  it  off.  Cut  the 
cake  into  pieces  that  will  fit  inside  your  tin  muf- 
fin rings  as  linings,  and  small  pieces  to  form  the 
bottoms.  Small  tumblers  or  cups  may  answer 
as  well  where  there  are  no  suitable  rings.  Then 
make  the  filling. 

353— Koiuaii  Cream. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

.5  ounces  of  su^'ar. 

1  ounce  of  gelatine — light  weight. 


Small  piece  of  stick  cinnamon. 

}4  cupful  of  thick  cream. 

6  yolks  of  eggs. 

J^  cupful  of  curaooa,  or  a  wine  substitute. 

Set  the  milk  over  the  side  of  the  fire,  with  the 
sugar,  cinnamon  and  gelatine  in  it,  and  beat 
often  with  the  wine  egg  whisk  till  the 
gelatine  is  all  dissolved,  which  will  be  at  about 
the  boiling  point.  Beat  the  yolks  light,  mix 
them  in  like  making  custard,  allow  a  few  mo- 
ments for  it  to  thicken  but  not  boil,  then  strain 
into  a  tin  pail  or  a  freezer  and  set  in  ice  water ; 
when  nearly  cold  whip  the  cream  to  froth  and 
beat  it  in  and  add  the  curacoa  or  other  flavoring; 
fill  up  the  charlotte  cases  and  set  them  in  the  re- 
frigerator to  remain  till  wanted. 


When  to  be  served  take  the  charlottes  out  of 
the  tin  rings ;  the  cream  being  set  will  hold  them 
together. 


The  preceding  white  sponge  cake  mixture  will 
be  enough  for  half  a  yard  square  of  sheet  cake, 
and  a  small  cake  in  a  mold  beside. 


Where  there  is  no  cream  whatever  to  be  used 
for  the  purpose  after  beating  up  the  gelatine 
cream  quite  light  as  it  cools  whip  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  to  froth  and  mix  in  by  beating.  Pour 
it  into  the  cases  while  fluid  enough  to  run  into 
the  form.  The  same  cream  can  of  course  be 
set  in  molds  without  cake. 

MENU     NO.     XXVI— RECEPTION. 


354— Consomme   With   Green    Feas. 

3  quarts  of  rich  seasoned  soup  stock. 

1  cupful  or  a  can  of  French  peas. 

To  make  stock,  as  it  is  called  before  it  is 
strained,  two  plump  young  chickens  should  bo 
boiled  in  a  gallon  of  Avater  along  with  some 
broken  up  veal  bones  and  a  piece  of  gravy  beef, 
etc.,  the  chickens  to  be  tal;en  out  within  an  hour 
to  be  used  for  patties  or  salad.  Throw  into  tho 
stockpot  after  that  a  teaspoonful  of  bruised  pep- 
percorns, a  small  bay  leaf,  half  blade  of  mace, 
a  bunch  of  soup  herbs  and  bunch  of  parsley. 
When  the  stock  has  simmered  about  three  hours 
strain  it  first  into  a  deep  vessel  such  as  a  tin  pail 
or  jar,  skim  it  free  from  grease,  pour  it  without 
the  sediment  through  a  broth  napkin  spread  in  a 
colander  or  thrcmgh  a  jelly  bag  twice  over  to  get 
it  as  clear  as  possible.  Then  boil  it  up  asain  in 
a  clean  vessel,  add  salt  to  taste,  a  tablesponnful 
of  starch  mixed  with  water,  a  little  burnt  sugar 
to  make  tho  consomme  of  the  color  of  strong 
tea;  then  wash  the  green  peas  in  a  strainer  under 
the  hot  Avater  faucet,  and  add  tbem  to  the  con- 
somme just  before  serving.  The  peas  must  be 
really  green.  They  have  a  pretty  effect  in  the 
rich,  brandy-colored  liquor,  in  which  they  will 
hardly  sink.     (See  Nos.  118  and  131.) 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


53 


:55— CIiiokKM  Fatties,  or  Rouchees  a  la  Keine. 

1  pint  cupful  of  chicken  out  in  dice. 
1  pint  cupful  of  rich  cream  sauce. 
SeaaoniugH. 


Yol-au-veut  patty  caaes. 

Pick  the  meat  from  one  or  two  boiled  chiok- 
ena,  out  it  into  long  strips  and  then  acroaa  into 
small  dice.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan,  season  with 
white  pepper  or  cayenne,  a  grating  of  uutmeg, 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  salt  and  an  ounce  of 
butter.  Next  pour  over  it  the  cream  sauce,  No. 
165,  and  let  it  gently  simmer  at  the  back  of  a 
range  or  on  a  brick  on  the  range  top  till  time  to 
dish  up,  then  till  the  patty  cases  with  it.  If  there 
is  no  cream  sauce  ready,  it  amounts  to  the  aame 
thmg  to  add  a  uintof  ricii  milk  and  a  spoonful 
of  thickening  to  the  chicken,  care  being  taken 
not  to  make  it  pasty,  nor  yet  so  thin  that  the 
sauce  will  run  out  of  the  patties. 


256 -Vol-au- Vent  X'atty  Cakes. 

These  are  shells  of  pastry  baked  witlMut  the 
iillinga,  opened  and  the  meat,  etc. ,  put  in  after- 
ward. 

Eoll  out  a  piece  of  puff  paste  (No.  53)  to  about 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  cut  out  tlata 
with  a  large  biacuit  cutter,  then  take  a  small 
cutter  and  cut  nearly  but  not  quite  through  the 
middle  of  each  one  and  bake  on  a  pan  in  a  briak 
oven.  The  paste  rises  and  the  inaide  out  be- 
ooraea  a  lid  that  may  be  lifted  out  with  a  knife 
point.  Remove  the  surplus  paste  from  the  in- 
aide, fill  with  the  prepared  chicken,  put  ou  the 
lid  and  ornament  with  a  aprig  of  paraley. 

Proper  cutters  for  these  patties  are  double,  the 
inside  cutter  edge  being  lower  than  the  other,  so 
that  it  does  not  cut  clear  through ;  and  the  eha  pe 
may  be  oval  to  fit  a  dish,  or  any  other  shape.  A 
round  tin  cutter  may  be  bent  to  cut  an  oval  patty. 


But  where  large  numbers  are  made  there  is 
something  slightly  exasperating  in  the  primness 
of  these  little  pies  with  their  little  lids,  e.S])eoiaily 
when  they  are  cut  with  a  scalloped  edge  cooky 
cutter,  and  to  get  away  from  their  prettiiiess  we 
often  cut  out  oval  flats,  quite  thm,  without  any 
inside  out,  brush  them  over  with  egg  and  wa(er, 
bake  and  then  split  them  w'ith  a  knife,  place  the 
spoonful  of  minced  chicken  on  the  bottom  piece 
and  the  top  crust  on  top. 


aST-FroBs'  Saddles  on  Toast. 

While  the  supply  of  this  delicacy  is  becoming 
greater  every  year,  frogs  are  still  sufficiently 
high  priced  to  be  accounted  an  article  of  luxury. 
It  is  very  probable  that  in  the  course  of  time  the 
frog  will  take  the  pla'je  in  the  summer  left  void 
by  the  long  vacation  of  the  oyster. 

There  are  two  varieties  of  frogs  in  market,  the 
small  ranging  in  price  from  about  30  cents  to 


150  cents  per  dozen,  and  the  large  at  about  |1 
to  fl..50  per  dozen.  The  prices  take  a  wide 
range  and  these  common  figures  are  only  intended 
tp  apprise  the  buyer  of  the  different  values  of  the 
two  sorts.  A  restaurant  order  requires  six  of  the 
small  saddles  for  each  person,  while  two  of  the 
large  kind  are  sufficient  and  contain  more  meat. 
Only  the  hind  quarters  or  saddles  of  frogs  are 
used.  Those  who  would  be  extremely  nice  in 
their  preparation  parboil  them  a  few  minutes  in 
the  same  kind  of  stock  that  fish  is  boiled  in,  that 
is  water  with  salt  and  a  little  vinegar  in  it,  and 
then  take  them  out  and  cook  them  in  the  various 
ways.  Commonly  at  the  restaurants  they  are 
treated  aimply  as  spring  chickens — steeped  in 
cold  water  till  wanted,  then  breaded  and  fried, 
broiled,  stewed,  or  otherwiae  ijrepared. 

Take  the  saddles  out  of  the  water  or  out  of  the 
boiling  liquor,  as  the  case  may  be,  and  roll  them 
in  flour,  then  in  an  egg  (beaten  a  little,  with  a 
spoonful  of  water  added),  and  then  in  cracker 
meal,  giving  them  a  good  coating,  pressing  but 
not  rubbing  off  the  breading,  which  will  not 
stick  a  second  time.  Fry  in  a  pan  of  hot  lard 
froni  four  to  six  or  eight  minutes. 

Cut  large  square  slices  of  buttered  teas;  across 
diagonally,  making  triangirlar  pieces ;  p'.ace  two 
on  a  diah,  the  broad  bases  together  in  the  middle 
and  points  at  the  ends  of  the  diah,  and  froga  on 
the  toaat  in  corresponding  manner.  Oruumeut 
with  cut  lemons  and  parsley.  Large  dishes  have 
the  frogs  placed  overlapping  down  the  middle 
like  cutlets. 

For  a  private  party  prepare  fringed,  spiral 
paper  handlea  before  the  froga  are  cooked,  and 
slip  one  over  the  end  of  each  pair  of  bones 
placed  together  aimilarly  to  the  fringed  paper 
handles  on  lamb  outlets.  Directions  for  making 
these  papers  will  be  found  at  another  place. 


258— Stewed  Com  and  Tomatoes. 

Boil  twelve  tender  roasting  ears  in  salted  water 
till  the  milk  is  set — about  fifteen  minutes — then 
out  the  corn  off  the  cob.  There  will  be  about  a 
heaping  pint,  according  to  the  size  of  corn. 

Take  three  cupfula  of  peeled  tomatoes,  out 
them  in  small  pieces,  season  with  talt,  pepper 
and  butter,  and  let  simmer  on  the  abelf  or  back 
of  the  range,  or  on  a  brick  on  the  slove  top,  till 
they  are  reduced  to  two  cupfula.  Then  mix  the 
corn  and  tomatoes  together,  and  keep  them  slowly 
cooking  till  wanted.     Serve  as  a  vegetable,  hot. 


259— Fried  Macaroni— GenoiSK. 

4  ounces  of  macaroni. 

3  ounces  of  cheese. 

1  egg  and  cracker  meal  for  breading. 

Take  the  best  macaroni  in  pound  papers; 
break  the  sticlta  only  ouce  in  the  middle.  Throw 
a  quarter  of    a  pound   into  salted  water  that  is 


54 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKlKG    SCHOOL. 


already  boiling,  and  let  it  cook  twenty-five  min- 
utes. 

Mmoe  the  cheese  fine.  Drain  the  macaroni 
and  mix  the  cheese  with  it  while  it  is  hot,  that  the 
cheeae  may  be  melted  in  it.  When  cold,  or 
nearly  so,  dip  each  string  of  macaroni  sep- 
arately into  the  egg  (beaten  a  little 
with  a  spoonful  of  water  added)  and 
then  in  cracker  meal.  A  short  time 
before  it  is  to  be  served  make  some  fresh  lard 
hot  in  a  frying-pan,  drop  in  the  macaroni  and 
fry  about  one  minute.  Drain  in  a  colander,  cut 
the  strings  in  two,  pile  loosely  on  a  dish ;  serve 
very  hot. 

seO-Esff  Salad. 

Border  of  green,  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs  in  the 
center  and  salad  dressing  poured  over. 

Chop  heart  lettuce,  it  at  hand,  or  else  tender 
cabbage  or  celery,  or  a  mixture,  and  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  vinegar,  and  oil  if  liked,  and 
place  it  with  a  teaspoon  as  a  border  on  the  dishes. 
Slice  hard-boiled  eggs  and  put  four  slices  to  each 
individual  dish  on  edge  leaning  and  overlapping 
in  the  middle  of  the  green.  Pour  over  the  eggs, 
either  the  salad  dressing,  made  without  oil,  or 
the  mayonaise  No.  68. 

861— Cold  Roast  Ham. 

Steep  a  small  ham  in  cold  water  over  night  if 
convenient,  wash  the  outside  in  warm  water,  put 
it  on  to  boil  and  let  it  slowly  cook  about  three 
hours.  Take  off  the  skin,  trim  around  the 
knuckle  bone,  and  if  necessary  to  make  a  neat 
shape  saw  off  the  bone  that  protrudes  from  the 
thick  end.  Then  bake  it  nearly  half  an  hour. 
Take  it  out  and  press  ou  to  the  brown  surface  all 
the  cracker  meal  or  powdered  dry  bread  crumbs 
that  can  be  made  to  adhere  and  bake  again  very 
carefully  till  the  breading  is  handsomely  browned 
all  over.  It  may  be  necessary  to  baste  the  bread- 
ing a  little  with  fat  enough  to  barely  moisten  it. 
When  cold  put  a  fringed  paper  on  the  clean 
knuckle  bone  and  place  the  ham  on  its  dish,  to  be 
sliced  cold  as  wanted. 


868— French  Cream  Pufl's. 

1  pint  of  water. 

7  ounces  of  butter. 

o  ounces  of  sugar. 

lU  ounces  of  flour. 

()  eggs— or  7  if  small. 

:i  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla  extract. 

Bull  the  water  with  the  sugar  and  butter  in  it 
in  a  deep  saucepan.  Drop  in  the  flour  all  at 
once  and  stir  the  mixture  over  the  fire  till  you 
have  a  firm,  well-eooked  paste.  Take  it  from 
the  fire  and  work  in  the  eggs  one  at  a  time 
with  a  spoon,  and  beat  the  paste  well 
against  the  side  of  the  saucepan.  Add  the 
vanilla  with  the  last  egg.  The  more  this  paste 
is  beaten  the  more  the  puffs  will  expand  in  the 
i)Ven.     Grease  the   baking  pans  and  then  rub 


them  clean  and  bright.  Place  the  paste  in  oval 
lumps  like  walnuts  with  plenty  of  room  between, 
using  a  lady-finger  sack  and  tube,  or  else  a 
spoon  and  knife  to  shape  them.  Bake  in  a  slack 
oveu  about  twenty  minutes,  The  puffs  will  be 
hollow.  Cut  them  open  at  tlie  side  and  iiU  with 
pastry  cream,  or,  more  suitably  for  these,  with 
fruit  jelly. 

263— Glazed  Eclairs, 

The  puffs  of  the  preceding  recipe    dipped  into 
sugar  glaze  of  different  colors  and  flavors. 


864— Quickest  and  Easiest  Iclna:  or    Glaze  for 
Cakes. 

8  ounces  of  fine  powdered  sugar. 

2  whites  of  eggs. 

Flavoring  extracts. 

Mix  the  sugar  and  whites  together  in  a  bowl 
by  merely  stirring  them  with  a  spoon,  cold.  Use 
part  of  it  wbi\eaud  semi-transparent  as  it  is,  and 
add  a  drop  of  prepared  cochineal  or  carmine  to 
the  rest,  and  also  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice 
to  brighten  the  color.  Dip  puffs  or  eclairs  and 
small  cakes  into  the  glaze,  and  allow  them  an 
hour  in  a  warm  place  to  dry.  Flat  cakes  spread 
with  a  knife. 


365— Yellow  Glaze  or  loins;. 

The  same  as  preceding,  but  the  sugar  moist- 
ened with  three  yolks  of  eggs  instead  of  two 
whites.     Flavor  with  lemon. 

866— Neapolitan  Ice  Cream,  or   Glace  Napoli- 
taine. 

Three  different  colored  ices  placed  in  lay- 
ers in  a  brick-shaped  mold,  and  frozen  solid 
enough  to  be  cut  in  slices. 

Neapolitan  molds  can  be  bought  at  the  bouse 
furnishing  stores.  They  are  of  about  the  size 
and  shape  of  a  cigar  box ;  both  top  and  bottom 
can  be  taken  off ;  some  have  the  top  lid  stamped 
in  a  fruit  shape  like  a  jelly  mold. 

There  is  no  particular  rule  as  to  what  kind  of 
ices  shall  be  used ;  they  may  be  caramel  ice 
cream,  which  is  brown,  or  chocolate,  coffee  or 
burnt  almond,  or  white  pure  cream  or  yellow 
custard,  with  a  pink,  red  or  pm-ple  fruit  ice  for 
the  middle  layer,     For  example: 

Make  the  yellow  boiled  custard  No-  153,  but 
half  the  quantity  may  suffice.  Also  make  the 
white  ice  cream  No.  205,  or  a  corn  starch  cream, 
quite  white,  and  for  the  red  make  the  following. 


867— Concord  Grape  Ice. 

4  ounces  of  ripe  Concord  grapes — a  cupfuL 
1  pound  of  sugar. 
1  quart  of  water. 
Juice  of  one  lemon. 

Mash  the  grapes  and  sugar  together   raw,  add 
the  lemon  juice    and  water,  strain  into  a  freezer 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


55 


with  all  the  pulp  obtainable  and  freeze  at  once. 
The  lemon  juice  brigbtena  the  color. 


Small  quantities  like  the  preceding  can  be 
frozen  in  tin  pail3  set  in  a  freezing  mixture  of 
finely  pounded  ice  and  salt  in  a  tub,  if  kept  con- 
stantly in  motion,  though  proper  freezers,  of 
course,  are  better. 

When  all  three  are  frozen  lay  a  sheet  of  thin 
paper  on  the  bottom  lid  of  the  mold  to  make  a 
tight  fit;  place  the  mold,  spread  in  the  three 
layers  with  a  spoon  evenly,  put  on  paper,  then 
the  lid ;  fill  the  crevice  along  the  edges  of  the 
papers  with  a  little  melted  butter  to  keep  out  the 
salt  water,  then  put  the  mold  down  in  the  f reez  - 
ing  mixture,  cover  it  well  with  ice  and  salt  and 
let  it  remain  two  or  three  hours. 

When  to  be  served  wash  off  the  mold  in  cold 
water  and  wipe  dry,  take  off  the  lids  and  paper 
and  place  the  tri-colored  brick  of  cream  on  a 
folded  napkin  on  a  dish,  or  on  a  silver  dish  hav- 
ing a  perforated  bottom  drainer. 


Where  a  large  quantity  of  this  fashionable  ice 
is  made  to  serve  at  dinners  that  last  for  hours 
the  bricks  are  all  taken  out  of  the  molds  early, 
wrapped  in  manilla  paper  and  packed  in  a  largo 
ioe  cream  freezer,  there  to  remain  frozen  until 
they  are  taken  out  one  by  one  as  wanted. 


368— .Ansel  Food. 

The  fanciful  name  for  white  sponge  cake — the 
whitest  cake  made. 

The  angel  food  recipe  was  given  sub  rosa  at 
No.  2.53.  Having  made  the  cake  mixture  as 
'  there  directed,  take  bright  tin  molds  hav- 
ing large  inside  tubes,  and  nearly  fill  without 
previously  greasing  them.  Bake  about  twenty- 
five  minutes  in  a  slack  oven.  Let  the  cakes  re- 
main in  the  mold  until  cold,  then  shake  them 
out.  This  cake  is  better  when  a  day  or  two  old 
than  when  freshly  baked. 

Make  the  quick  icing.  No.  2C4,  and  spread  over 
the  cakes. 


Make  like  cake  frosting,  No.  60,  with  choco- 
late mixed  in. 

8  ounces  of  granulated  sugar. 

3  whites  of  eggs. 

3  ounces,  or  a  li*tle  less,  of  grated  chocolate. 

A  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar  or  other  acid. 

Tanilla  flavoring. 

Use  common  chocolate,  and  have  it  cold  to 
grate.  Beat  the  sugar  and  two  whites  together 
in  a  bowl  with  a  wooden  paddle  for  about  fifteen 
minutes,  when,  if  it  has  been  kept  cold,  the  mix- 
ture will  be  white  and  firm  enough  to  draw  up  in 
points.    Then  add  the  other  white  and  beat  five 


minutes,  then  a  pinch  of  acid  or  lemon  juice, 
flavoring  and  the  grated  chocolate.  Stir  to  mix. 
Drop  pieces  large  as  walnuts  on  baking  pans 
slightly  greased,  and  bake  in  a  very  slack  oven. 
Tbe  baking  is  the  critical  part.  They  need  heat 
enough  to  cause  them  to  swell  and  become 
rounded  and  almost  hollow,  but  not  enough  to 
melt  or  color.  They  will  slip  oft'  the  pans  when 
cold. 


MENU  NO. XXVII— GENTLEMEN'S  SUPPER 


3~0-LittIe  Neck  Clams— Raw  on  Shell. 

Wash  the  clams  m  water,  using  a  brush,  and 
wipe  dry.  Open,  and  loosen  the  clams  from 
both  shells.  Serve  five  on  a  plate  on  the  half 
shell  with  half  a  lemon  placed  in  the  center. 
Oyster  crackers  and  a  small  dish  of  finely  shred 
cabbage  at  the  side. 

371— AiKlalusirtll  Soup. 

This  is  a  brown  tomato  soup   highly  seasoned. 
3  quarts  of  soup  stock. 
1  pint  of  dry  stewed  tomatoes — 3  cupfuls. 
1  cupful   of   minced  soup   vegetables,  mostly 
onions. 
1  small  capful  of  butter. 
The  same  of  flour. 


Make  the  soup  stock  rich  with  stewing  pieces 
of  beef,  out  small,  and  some  veal  or  veal  bones 
previously  roasted  brown  to  give  it  color. 

Fry  the  minced  vegetables  in  the  butter  in  a 
frying-pan,  and  when  the  butter  has  become 
light  brown  mix  the  flour  in  and  set  the  pan  in- 
side the  oven  for  the  mixture  to  brown  thor- 
oughly without  getting  the  least  burnt.  After 
that  scrape  the  contents  of  the  pan  into  the  soup 
stock.  Throw  in  eight  cloves,  half  a  bay  leaf,  a 
teaspoonful  of  black  pepper  and  a  slice  of 
broiled  ham.  Let  simmer  half  an  hour,  then 
strain  the  stock  through  a  gravy  strainer  into  the 
soup  pot,  add  the  tomatoe3,'rubbed  also  through 
the  strainer,  and  set  the  soup  on  the  side  of  the 
range  to  slowly  boil  for  half  an  hour  longer,  dur- 
ing which  time  skim  off  the  grease  as  it  rises  at 
one  side.  Season  with  salt  The  soup  should 
be  of  the  consistency  of  thin  brown  sauce. 


STS— Broiled  I'ouipano. 

The  pompano  is  a  Southern  sea  fish  somewhat 
rare  and  high  priced.  It  has  a  decided  flavor  of 
its  own  that  suggests  the  taste  of  black  walnuts 
when  broiled.  It  has  the  flattened  shape  of  the 
sunfish,  and  scales  almost  as  fine  as  those  of  the 
mackerek 

Scrape  the  skin  thoroughly.  The  smallest 
size,  weighing  about  one  pound,  may  be  broiled 
whole  in  the  wire  broiler  previously  greased. 
Split  the  large  ones  down  the  back  and  through 
the  head.  Broil  the  cut  side  first — eight  or  ten 
minutes — brush    over   with     fresh    butter   and 


b6 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


dred;,'e  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  broil  the  skin 
side  till  di)De.  Serve  ou  a  hot  dish.  Squeeze  a 
little  lemon  juice  over,  and  serve  cold  tartar 
sauce  ill  a  sauce  boat  separately,  or  for  indi- 
vidual orders,  the  hot  tartar  sauce  in  the  same 
dish. 


273-Tartar  .Sauce— Hot. 

J^  cupful  of  vinegar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  tinely  minced  onion. 

1  ounce  of  butter. 

Same  of  olive  oil — a  cooldng  spoonful. 

Bait  and  cayenne. 

4  yolks  of  eggs. 

Little  minced  pickled  gherkin. 

Boil  the  onion  in  the  vinegar  a  few  minutes, 
throw  in  the  butter  and  yollis  and  beat  until  it 
cooks  thick  and  like  softened  butter,  about  a 
minute.  Take  it  from  the  lire  and  beat  in  the 
oil  gradually.     Add  the  seasonings. 


374-Cliapin  &  Gore's  .Soanisli  .Stew. 

3  tat  pullets,  large  but  young. 

6  green  pepper  pods — or  1  or  3  red. 

1  good  sized  onion. 

1  slice  of  broiled  ham. 

1  can  of  louiatoes — or  a  quart. 

1  can  of  French  peas. 

Salt  and  some  more  pepper. 

Cut  the  chickens  into  joints,  and  stew  them 
till  the  bones  could  be  pulled  out  of  the  meat, 
in  just  enough  stock  or  water  to  cover  them,  to- 
gether with  the  six  peppers,  the  onion  and  slice 
of  ham.  Then  take  out  the  chicken  ou  to  a  large 
dish,  and  keep  it  hot,  strain  out  the  pods,  etc., 
put  the  tomatoes  into  the  liquor  and  stew  down 
thick,  seasoning  with  salt  and  perhaps  a  little 
cayenne,  if  the  pepper  pods  have  not  had  full 
eilect.  Make  the  peas  hot  in  a  saucepan  sepa- 
rately. Pour  the  thick-stewed  tomatoes  over  the 
chicken,  and  strew  the  peas  all  over  the  surface. 


375— niaslied  Potatoes  in  Form. 

Mash  some  potatoes  with  butter  and  salt,  but 
with  a  very  scant  addition  of  milk,  lest  they  be 
too  soft.  Make  up  in  two  pineapple  Shapes,  mark 
the  outsides  with  the  back  of  a  knife,  brush  over 
with  a  little  egg  and  water — not  to  make  them 
yellow,  but  only  to  bind  and  glaze — and  b^ke 
light  brown  on  pie  pans  in  a  hot  oven.  Send  in 
very  hot  on  flat  dishes. 


376-Clab  Salad. 

6  boiled  crabs,  common  size. 

1  cupful  of  finely  minced  white  cabbage. 

}^  cupful  of  salad  dressing. 

Pick  the  meat  out  of  the  crabs,  cut  all  that  can 
be  cut  into  pieces  of  even  size  and  rub  the  rest 
smooth  in  salad  dressing,  adaing  a  little  mustard. 
Mix  cabbage  and  dressing  thoroughly,  and  the 
crab  meat  mix  in  lightly  without  breaking  the 


pieces.  Fill  the  crab  shells  with  the  salad  and 
place  them  on  a  dish  previously  prepared  with  a 
bed  of  cress  or  other  green. 


877-Kuiu  Omelet— For  Three  or  Four. 

6  eggs. 

A  third  as  much  milk. 

}^  cupful  of  rum. 

Powdered  sugar. 

Put  the  eggs  and  milk  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  sugar  in  a  bowl  together,  and  beat 
enough  to  mix  but  not  to  make  the  omelet  too 
light.  Set  the  rum  where  it  will  get  warm.  Put 
a  teaspoonful  of  the  clear  oil  of  melted  butter  in 
the  large  frying-pan,  and  pour  in  the  omelet  be- 
fore the  pan  gets  hot  enough  to  make  it  stick 
ou  the  bottom.  An  omelet  should  not 
be  cooked  through  and  the  brown 
outside  rolled  in,  but  should  be 
shaken  and  shaped  in  the  further  side  of  the 
pan,  as  soon  as  the  edge  is  cooked  enough  to  fall 
over  from  the  edge  into  the  middle  shaken  fur- 
ther over',  so  that  the  omelet  is  not  a  cake  but  a 
soft  cooked  mass  with  thick  middle  and  pointed 
ends.  A  broad  hiaded  knife  is  useful  to  help 
sliape  it. 

Make  an  iron  wire  red  hot  in  the  fire. 

When  the  omelet  is  done  slip  it  on  to  a  hot 
dish,  dredge  the  top  with  powdered  sugar,  mark 
it  with  bars  across  with  the  hot  v/ire  laid  a  mo- 
ment on  the  sugared  top.  Pour  the  rum  around 
and  set  it  ou  fire  and  send  it  in. 

The  sugaring  and  marking  generally  causes 
too  much  delay  for  individual  omelets  in  large 
numbers,  and  has  to  be  omitted  in  such  cases. 


378— Charlotte  Kusse. 

Two- quart  size  in  a  mold  Lining  of  lady 
fingers  and  filling  of  maraschino  cream. 

2}4  pints  of  thin  cream. 

1  teacupful  of  maraschino. 

7  ounces  of  sugar. 

1  package  of  Cox's  gelatine — 114  ounces. 

Put  the  extra  half  pint  of  cream  in  a  small 
saucepan  and  the  gelatine  and  sugar  with  it,  set 
over  the  fire  and  beat  wjth  the  wire  egg  whisp 
till  the  gelatine  is  all  dissolved — the  quicker  the 
better.  Pour  the  maraschino  into  the  cream, 
then  strain  in  the  contents  of  the  saucepan,  set 
the  whole  in  a  pan  of  ice  water  with  salt  in  it 
and  whip  the  cream  mixture  till  it  begins  to  set, 
when  pour  it  into  the  prepared  mold. 

The  mold  should  be  made  ready  beforehand. 
A  two-quart  jelly  mold  will  do,  or  a  cake  mold. 
Line  it  with  lady  fingers  placed  edge  to  edge,  the 
edges  wetted  with  white  of  egg.  Ornament  the 
top  on  turning  out  with  whipped  cream  or 
meringue. 

The  less  gelatine  such  creams  as  the  preceding 
can  be  made  with,  and  the  lighter  and  spongier. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


57 


they  are  the  better,  but  as  they  are  then  the 
more  liable  to  break  out  of  shape  when  turned 
out,  only  shallow  molds  should  be  employed,  the 
ends  of  the  cakes  trimmed  off  level  with  the 
cream  and  the  charlottes  kept  very  cold  till  the 
last 

MENU  NO.XXVIII,GENTLEMEN'S  SUPPER. 


a79-Oyster  Soup— For  Twelve. 

1  quart  of  oysters,  or  1  can. 

1  quart  of  clear  broth  or  soup  stock. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

4  ounces  of  fresh  butter. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Same  of  white  pepper  or  cayenne. 

1^  cupful  of  crushed  oyster  crackers. 

If  there  is  no  good  clear  broth  at  hand  water 
will  do  instead.  The  things  to  be  guarded  against 
are  not  to  get  the  milk  curdled  by  boiling  it  with 
the  oysters,  and  to  avoid  having  the  skum  from 
the  oyster  liquor  floating  on  top  of  the  soup. 
Boil  the  stock  (or  water)  in  one  saucepan  and  the 
milk  in  another.  Pour  a  ladleful  of  the  hot 
liquor  over  the  oysters  in  a  colander,  and  when 
they  are  drained  boil  their  liquor  and  what  has 
run  through  in  a  little  saucepan  by  itself  and 
skim  it,  then  strain  it  into  the  soup  stock.  Put 
in  the  oysters,  and  just  as  it  begins  to  boil  take 
from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  rolled  crackers  for  thick- 
ening, the  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and  then  the 
milk.  Sprinkle  a  little  chopped  parsley  on  top 
when  about  to  serve  it.  The  oysters  should  not 
be  allowed  to  become  hard-boiled. 


Take  about  three  pounds  of  the  middle  cut  of 
a  small  Balrnon,  and,  having  scaled  and  cleaned 
it,  put  it  onto  cook  in  water  that  is  already  boil- 
ing and  strongly  salted.  The  fish  should  be 
placed  on  the  drainer  or  false  bottom  of  the  fish 
kettle,  but  where  there  is  no  such  utensil  the 
precaution  should  be  taken  to  wrap  and  pin  it 
in  a  buttered  napkin,  that  it  may  come  out  of  the 
water  unbroken.  Let  it  cook  very  gently  at  the 
side  of  the  range  for  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  Take  it  up,  remove  the  skin, 
and  place  it  carefully  on  a  hot  dish.  At 
tbemoment  that  it  is  sent  to  table  pour  over  it 
some  ot  the  fresh  butter  sauce  of  the  next  recipe, 
fill  the  remaining  space  around  it  in  the  dish 
with  a  pint  of  potato  boullettes,  and  send  :u 
some  more  of  the  sauce  in  a  sauce-boat 


281— Scotch  Fish  Sauce. 

Set  8  ounces  of  the  best  butter,  the  juice  of 
one  lemon,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  a  tablespoou- 
f  111  of  chopped  parsley  in  a  bowl  in  a  place  warm 
enough  to  soften  the  butter,  but  not  melt  it,  and 


when  the  sauce  is  wanted  for  use    stir  together 
until  creamy. 

383 — Potato  Boulettes. 

Scoop  balls  the  size  of  cherries  out  of  large 
potatoes  with  a  Parisian  potato  spoon  or  scoop 
(to  be  had  at  the  furnishing  stores)  and  set  a 
pint  of  them  on  to  stew  in  butter,  or  a  mixture 
of  butter  and  lard.  They  are  not  to  bo  fi-ied, 
but  only  to  be  simmered  in  the  melted  butter 
until  it  begins  to  fry  and  brown  the  bottom  ot 
the  saucepan.  Stir  them  when  first  put  in  lest 
they  stick  on  the  bottom  and  get  a  scorched 
taste.  When  done  drain  and  set  them  in  a  pan  in 
the  oven  to  acquire  a  very  slight  color.  Spriukie 
salt  and  parsley  and  shake  up. 

The  butter  remaining  can  be  used  in  cooking. 
The  potatoes  scooped  full  of  holes  will  do  to 
steam  and  mash. 


383— Double  Tenderloin  Steaks. 

Cut  a  fillet  of  beef  into  S-inch  lengths,  remove 
enough  of  the  skin  that  incases  the  outside  to 
allow  the  steaks  to  spread  when  flattened,  but 
be  careful  to  retain  a  good  border  of  the  fat  as 
well.  Beat  down  with  the  side  of  the  cleaver  to 
make  large  steaks  nearly  an  inch  thick. 

Fifteen  minutes  before  they  are  to  be  served 
brush  over  both  sides  with  the  butter  brush  and 
set  the  steaks  to  broil  over  clear  coals.  They 
will  be  medium  well  done  in  8  or  10  minutes. 
Take  them  from  the  gridiron  without  spilling 
the  gravy  that  collects  on  top,  place  on  a  hot 
dish  and  garnish  with  out  lemons  and  chip  po- 
tatoes. 

384-EsE  Plant  Fried  in  Batter. 

Slice  the  egg  plant,  without  paring,  into 
four  or  five,  throwing  away  only  the  end  parings. 
Boil  the  slices  in  salted  water  a  few  minutes  to 
extract  the  strong  taste.  Drain,  dip  them  iu  the 
frying  batter  of  the  next  recipe,  and  fry  them 
brown  in  a  pan  of  hot  lard.  Keep  the  slices  a 
minute  or  two  spread  on  a  pan  tilted  to  one  side 
in  the  oven,  to  become  free  from  grease  and  crisp 
on  the  outside. 

38S-FryiiiE     Batter     lor    Eke    Plamt,     Fruit 
Fritters,    Etc. 

1^  cupful  of  milk. 

1  egg. 

a  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  of  syrup  or  molasses. 

1  cupful  of  flour. 

3^  teaspoonful  ot  baking  powder. 

Put  all  into  a  pan  together,  the  flour  last  and 
the  powder  in  it,  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  work 
them  together  with  a  spoon. 

It  should  be  a  batter  that  is  thin  enough  to 
coat  the  article  dipped  iu  it  without  seeming  to 
make  it  all  dough  when  fried. 


58 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


386— Fat    tlver    Cake,    or    Pain    de  Foies   de 
Foulardes. 

8  ounces  of  poultry  livers. 

4  ounces  of  fat  hara  or  salt  pork. 

1  ounce  of  lean  cooked  ham. 

}4  cupful  of  sherry. 

}^  a  bayleaf,  pepper,  salt,  snap  of  mace. 


4  ounces  of  bread  panada  (rolls  soaked  in  water 
and  thet.  squeezed  dry  in  a  cloth). 

1  raw  egg. 

3  hard-boiled  yolks. 

1  corned  sheep's  tongue  or  part  of  a  large 
tongue,  cooked. 

A  spoonful  or  two  of  chopped  mushrooms. 

Aspic  jelly  to  garnish  with. 

This  is  an  article  of  the  head-cheese  order,  not 
so  formidable  on  trial  as  the  number  of  ingredi- 
ents make  it  appear.  In  the  first  part  are  the 
articles  to  be  cooked  together,  the  others  are  to 
be  added  to  the  paste  afterwards. 

Steep  the  poultry  livers  in  cold  water  to  whit- 
en them,  and  remove  all  gall  stains,  which  make 
them  bitter.  Setallthe  inij;redients  or  the  first  part 
to  simmer  in  a  saucepan  with  the  lid  on  at  the 
back  part  of  the  range,  and  let  remain  till  a 
convenient  time,  or  two  or  three  hours.  Then 
mash  to  a  paste.  The  livers,  etc.,  should  be 
nearly  dry  in  the  saucepan,  but  not  at  all  fried  or 
browned. 

Mix  the  raw  eggs  with  the  panada,  and  these 
with  the  pounded  liver.  Press  through  a  sieve. 
Cut  up  the  red  tongue,  the  hard-boiled  yolks  and 
mushrooms,  if  you  have  them,  and  mix  these  in 
the  paste.  Bake  about  an  hour  with  thin  slices 
of  fat  pork  first  laid  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan  or 
mold,  and  also  on  top  of  the  liver  cake,  and  a 
buttered  paper  over  that,  and  the  mold  set  in  a 
shallow  pan  of  water  in  the  oven. 

The  paste,  as  made  above,  can  be  taken  from 
the  pan  or  mold,  freed  from  fat  and  decorated 
like  boned  fowls. 


We  seem  to  need  some  mild  laws  to  make 
people  like  such  elaborate  compounds  as  the 
foregoing  (which  are  considered  very  fine  in  cer- 
tain places  across  the  seas  and  are  beautifully 
incased  in  jelly  and  oruamented),  or  at  least  to 
make  them  eat  them,  it  being  a  pity  that  the 
trouble  of  making  them  good  should  be  all  for 
nothing. 

There  were  some  dishes  of  the  sort  put  up  by 
the  bet3t  French  cooks  in  Chicago  at  their  ban- 
quet last  winter,  and  no  doubt  but  they  were  as 
good  as  could  be  made,  besides  being  extremely 
ornaraen^al,  yet  the  way  the  Philistines,  after 
tasting  with  their  knife  points,  pushed 
thom  away  and  took  their  plain  ham  and  beef 
instead  was  sad  for  the  artists  to  see.  However, 
our  fat  liver  cake  is  a  modified  preparation,  and 
instead  of  truffles  has  yolks  of  eegs  in  it  which 
show  up  when  it  is  cut  as  raisins  do  in  a  cake. 


It  is  nice  for  a  cold  luncheon  at  any  time,  if  care- 
fully made  and  kept,  and  served  cold  and  firm. 


38T-Lobstel-  .Salad. 

Pick  the  meat  out  of  one  or  two  lobsters,  all 
but  the  uneatable  portion,  cracking  the  claws 
carefully  to  get  the  red  meat  out  in  large  por- 
tions, and  line  a  melon  shaped  moid  with  it,  the 
best  pieces  at  the  sides. 

Mix  some  finely-minced  salad  material — 
either  tender  white  cabbage,  with  a  green 
celery  leaf  or  two  mixed  in,  or  heart 
lettuce,  or  celery  with  salad  dressing  (No.  350) 
sufficient  to  make  it  buttery  and  thick  enough  to 
keep  shape.  Fill  the  inside  of  the  mold  with 
this  and  press  it  into  the  lobster  lining.  Turn 
out  carefully  on  to  a  dish.  Spread  thick  mayon- 
naise upon  the  top  and  decorate  with  olives  and 
yolks  of  egg^,  and  the  edge  of  the  dish  with  the 
lobster,  clams  and  horns  and  parsley. 


3SS— Frozen  Alarascliino  Funcli. 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

1  quart  of  water. 

1  lemon — juice  only. 

1  orange — juice  only. 

}4  pint  (or  more)  of  maraschino. 

o  whites  of  eggs. 

Mix  all,  except  the  whites,  together  cold,  strain 
into  a  freezer,  freeze  as  usual,  whip  the  whites 
firm  and  stir  in  and  beat  up  well  and  freeze 
again.  It  is  a  snow-white  ice,  rich  and  tenacious 
like  pulled  candy.  The  fruit  juices  are  not 
essential,  but  an  improvement. 


389— Charlotte  Russe. 

Individual  size,  cases  of  yellow  cake  filled 
with  a  white  cream. 

For  the  cases  make  sponge  cake  batter  (No. 
212)  and  spread  it  on  sheets  of  paper  very  thinly. 
Bake  about  five  or  six  minutes.  Take  off  the 
paper  by  dampening  it  with  a  brush  dipped  in 
water  and  cut  the  sheet  of  cake  into  pieces  of  the 
right  size  to  line  tin  muffin  rings  and  small 
pieces  to  push  down  to  form  the  bottoms. 

The  rings  should  be  two  and  a  half  inches  in 
diameter  and  one  and  a  half  inches  deen. 


390— Bavarian  Cream— Ordinary. 

Three  oupfuls  of  rich  milk. 

One  cupful  of  cream  thick  enough  to  whip. 

Six  ounces  of  sugar — a  small  cupf  nl. 

One  ounce  of  gelatine — nearly  a  package  of  the 
shred. 

Three  whites  of  eggs. 

Flavoring. 

Bet  the  milk  over  the  fire  with  the  sugar  and 
gelatine  in  it,  and  stir  till  the  gelatine  is  all  dis- 
solved. Do  not  let  it  boil.  Strain  into  a  freezer 
placed  in  ice  Avater,  and  when  nearly  cold  enough 
to  set  add  half  the  cup  of  cream,  beat  ten  min- 
utes, whip  the  six  whites   firm,  stir    that  in  and 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


59 


bcLit  the  cream  five  minutes  more.  Flavor  while 
beating  with  lemon,  vanilla,  almond  or  other 
extract,  or  with  maraschino. 

The  cream  makes  the  preparation  richer,  but 
is  not  indispensable. 

Fill  the  charlotte  cases  vritU  the  Bavarian 
cream,  and  set  them  in  the  refrigerator  to  re- 
main till  wanted.  Then  take  them  out  of  the 
rings  and  place  them  on  a  dish.  Pile  a  spoonful 
of  whipped  cream  on  top  of  each  one. 


391— l»ouiid  Fruit  Cake. 

14  ounces  of  sugar. 

14  ounces  of  butter. 

11  eggs. 

18  ounces  of  flour. 

Mix  the  above  ingredients  together  the  same 
as  pound  cake,  then  add  to  it: 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  mixed  ground  spices,  mostly 
cinnamon  and  mac. 

1  lemon  grated  and  squeezed,  or  some  lemou 
extract, 

1  pound  of  seedless  raisins. 

1  pound  of  currants. 

l{  pound  of  citron. 

Mix  the  fruit  together  and  dust  it  well  with 
flour  before  stirring  it  into  the  batter.  The 
cakes  require  from  1  to  13^  hours  to  bake. 


MENU    NO.    XXIX.— BREAKFAST. 


293- Oatmeal   Mush. 

4  cupfuls  of  water. 

^^  cupful  of  oatmeal,  large  measure. 

1  small  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Boil  the  water,  sprinkle  in  the  oatmeal  while 
stirring  with  tlie  other  hand,  and  when  it  boils  up 
again  put  the  lid  on  the  saucepan  and  set  it  at  the 
back  of  the  stove  or  on  a  brick  to  simmer  with 
the  steam  shut  in  for  three  hours.  Stir  it  from 
the  bottom  occasionally. 


The  large  grained  oatmeal  is  the  best  and  the 
best  liked ;  the  finer  oatmeal  is  ground  the  poorer 
it  is  and  the  harder  to  cook.  There  are  several 
grades  sold.  If  the  large  sort  of  oatmeal  is 
mashed  like  rice  it  will  scarcely  ever  burn. 

When  mush  of  any  kind  has  become  burned  on 
the  bottom,  instead  of  making  the  whole  potful 
taste  by  stirring  it  up,  change  it  into  another  ves- 
sel by  inverting  it  without  the  interference  of  a 
spoon.  The  upper  part  will  seldom  be  the  worse 
for  the  accident  if  changed  immediately. 

Serve  the  mush  in  individual  deep  dishes,  and 
a  bowl  set  in  a  plate  and  a  pitcher  of  milk  or 
cream  with  it. 


chickens,  the  halves  are  small  enouj^h ;  if  larg:% 
cut  again  into  quarters.  Wash  well,  and  let  the 
pieces  lie  awhile  ia  fresh,  cold  water. 

If  only  one  or  two  chickens,  put  a  spoonful  of 
butter  and  a  spoonful  of  clear  drippings,  cu-  the 
fat  of  fried  salt  pork  into  a  baking  pan  that 
tlie  chickens  will  just  lie  in  without  overlapping; 
make  it  hot,  shake  the  water  from  the  pieces 
of  chicken,  dip  them  in  Hour  ou  both 
sides  and  lay  them  in  the  hot  lat 
with  the  skin  downwards.  Dredge  liberally 
with  fine  salt  and  good  home-ground 
black  pepper,  that  will  flavor  without  making 
the  chicken  look  dingy.  Shut  up  in  a  hot  oven, 
let  cook  a  few  minutes,  then  baste  well.  When 
the  upper  side  is  brown  turn  the  pioce.^  over 
and  brown  the  other. 

The  management  that  makes  chickens  done 
this  way  snch  good  eating  lies  m  so  covering  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  with  the  pieces  that  they  are 
lightly  browned  all  over  before  it  has  quite  dried 
up  all  the  moisture  that  runs  from  them  or  be- 
gan to  burn;  the  chickens  remain  moist  and 
juicy. 

Take  out  the  pieces  onto  a  hot  dish  Pour  off 
most  of  the  clear  grease  from  the  light  brown 
flour  and  gravy  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan ; 
put  in  a  cup  of  milk  and  let  it  boil  up.  The 
dredging  of  the  chicken  sufficiently  seasons  the 
gravy,  as  the  flour  they  are  dipped  in  thickens  it. 


393— Spring  Ciilcken,  Maryland  Style. 

Split  the  chickens  in  two  by  cutting  down  the 
back  and  then    through    the    breast;   if    small 


394— Poached  JEarffS. 

It  is  no  trouble  to  poach  eggg  handsomely  if 
two  or  three  rules  are  observed. 

Have  a  roomy  vessel  with  plenty  of  water,  the 
frying-pan  shape  is  good,  but  it  is  not  deep 
enough.  Have  a  little  salt  in  the  water.  Never 
let  the  water  boil  furiously  after  the  eggs  are  in, 
as  that  breaks  them:  keep  it  gently  simmering  at 
the  side. 

The  eggs  break  and  are  wasted  because  when 
first  dropped  they  go  heavily  to  the  hot  bottom 
and  there  sticl;,  to  prevent  which  set  the  water 
in  motion  by  stirring  it  around  with  a  spoon. 
The  eggs  dropped  iu  and  carried  around  a  mo- 
ment and  the  white  cooks  sufficiently  to  prevent 
adhesion. 

Break  the  eggs  carefully  into  little  dishes  and 
drop  into  the  water  one  at  a  time.  Take  them 
out  with  a  perforated  ladle. 

Serve  either  well  drained  in  a  small  deep  dish 
and  a  speck  of  butter  on  top  or  else  laid  neatly 
on  a  trimmed  slice  of  buttered  toast. 

295— Fl'ied   Sweet  I'otatoes. 

Cut  sweet  notatoes  into  slips  not  thicker  than  a 
pencil,  and  throw  them  into  hot  iard  in  a  frying- 
pan.  They  are  done  when  they  float  in  the  lard. 
Being  sweet,  they  are  apt  to  get  an  unpleasantly 
dark  color  if  not  watched  and  will  fry  best  with 
the  lard  only  moderately  hoti 


60 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


*/:96— Boston  Haht;d  Bpans. 

Live  and  learn.  The  adfertiaevs  of  the  canned 
beans  put  forth  a  statement  that  seemed  absurdly 
brazen-faced  to  some  of  us  when  they  said  that 
beans  put  up  in  Boston,  it  was  well 
known,  have  a  superior  flavor  to 
beans  put  up  anywhere  else — as  if  beans 
could  be  anything  more  or  less  than  beans  wher- 
ever they  might  hail  from.  However,  we  have 
since  seen  it  stated  by  another  authority  that 
10,000  bai'rel.3  of  beans  per  month  are  cooked  in 
Boston,  which  is  a  much  larger  amount  than 
New  York  consumes,  and  Boston  bakers  say  the 
New  Yorkers  do  not  soak  their  beans  sufficiently 
to  make  them  good.  The  advertisements  may 
be  right,  after  all,  for,  as  is  well  known,  seeds 
cut  in  soak  till  the  process  ot  growth  begins 
change  starch  to  sugar  and  acquire  a  sweet  taste, 
as  is  the  case  of  barley  when  it  changes  to  malt. 

Pick  over  and  wash  a  pint  of  beans,  and  lei 
them  steep  in  water  for  twenty-four  hours.  Put 
them  into  a  two-quart  earthen  jar,  fill  up  with 
water  ana  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  about  eight  hours, 
or  all  niaht,  to  have  them  warm  for  breakfast. 
Two  hours  before  they  are  to  be  taken  out  put 
into  the  jar  a  small  tablespoonful  of  molasses, 
the  same  of  salt,  and  a  square  block  of  salt  pork. 
Where  there  is  no  brick  oven  the  jar  may  be  set 
in  a  large  iron  pot  containmg  water,  and  baked 
in  that  manner  in  the  stove  during  the  afternoon 
and  evening,  and  made  hot  again  in  the  morn- 
ing. 


!S97— Boston    Brown   Breaa,  Teast-Kaised. 

At  No.  81  we  had  brown  bread  made  with  bak- 
ing powder,  and  that  may  be  made  as  well  with 
buttermilk  and  soda.  This  is  the  same  thing 
made  with  yeast.  The  scalding  of  the  meal  is  a 
great  improvement  to  the  quality  over  cold  mix- 
ing. 

1  pound  of  corn  meal— about  3  cupfula 

1  pint  of  boiling  water — 3  cupfula. 

J^  cupful  of  black  molasses. 

1  cupful  of  cold  water. 

1  cupful  of  yeast,  or  a  yeast  cake  in  water. 

J^  pound  of  either  rye  or  graham  flour. 

}^  pound  of  white  flour,  a  heaping  pint. 

Salt. 

Pour  the  Lolling  water  over  the  cornmeal  in  a 
pan  and  mix,  throw  in  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  add 
the  molasses  and  cold  water,  then  the  yeast  and 
then  the  two  kinds  of  Hour.  Line  two  sheet-iron 
brown  bread  paila  with  greased  paper,  put  in  the 
dough  and  let  rise  from  one  to  two  hours,  then 
bake  or  eteam  for  five  hours.  If  steamed,  bake 
the  loaves  afterward  long  enough  to  form  a 
light  crust. 

A  good  sort  of  bread  is  made  as  above  with  a 
pound  of  graham  sifted  through  a  common  flour 
sieve  to  remove  the  coarse  bran,  and  the  white 
flour  omitted ;  or  with  all  rye  flour  and  no  gra- 
ham or  wbite.    Care  should  be  taken  not  to  scald 


the  yeast  by  adding  it  to  the  hot  meal  before  the 
cold  water.  When  this  kind  of  bread  is  sticky 
when  sliced  it  shows  it  was  made  up  too  wet 
When  the  loaves  come  out  hollow  or  caved  in  it 
shows  too  much  fermentation. 


398-Fried  Apples. 

Fried  apples  with  salt  pork  is  the  restaurant 
dish,  but  there  is  no  particular  need  of  the  pork 
in  ordinary,  unless  when  the  fried  slices  are  left 
over  from  making  fat  for  cooking  chickens 
in.  Mice  good  ripe  apples  across  the  core  with- 
out paring,  throwing  away  only  the  end  slices, 
and  fry  five  or  six  slices  at  a  time  flat  in  a  large 
frying-pan  with  no  more  pork  fat  or  butter  than 
just  enough  to  cover  the  bottom.  When  the 
slices  are  brown  on  one  side  turn  over  with  a 
knife.  This  is  the  only  way  to  have  the  apples 
really  nice,  though,  it  being  too  slow  foranum 
ber  of  people,  they  are  commonly  tbro\vn  in 
quantities  into  a  dripping-pan  and  done  in  the 
oven,  when  it  depends  upon  the  luck  and  careful 
draining  from  grease  whether  they  come  out 
good.  With  some  kinds  of  apples  it  is  an  ad- 
vantage to  dip  the  slices  in  flour  before  frying. 
Both  methods  should  be  tried. 

Serve  the  fried  slices  neatly  placed  in  flat  indi- 
vidual dishes. 


^99— Buckwheat   Cakes. 

1  heaping  cupful  of  buckwheat  flour. 

2  cupfuls  of  warm  water. 

l{  cupful  of  yeast,  or  piece  of  compressed 
yeast  dissolved. 

1  small  teaspooufull  of  salt 

2  tablespoonful  of  syrup. 
Same  of  melted  lard. 

Make  a  sj)onge  or  batter  over  night  of  the 
warm  water,  yeast  and  flour.  In  the  morning 
add  the  enriching  ingredients;  beat  up  well,  and 
bake  thin  cakes  on  a  griddle. 

Most  people  like  buckwheat  cakes  with  a  little 
cornmeal  mixed  in  the  batter.  Eggs  are  not 
needed  except  when  accidentally  the  batter  fer- 
ments too  much,  when  an  egg  will  bind  and 
make  the  cakes  easier  to  bake.  Serve  with  but- 
ter and  syrup.  Naturalists  say  that  this  is  the 
kind  of  grub  that  makes  the  butterfly. 


300— Cookies— A  Kicb  Kind. 

X  pound  of  sugar. 

J^  pound  of  butter. 

6  eggs. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

l}{  pounds  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  soft 
dough. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sngar  together  the  same 
as  for  pound  cake.  Beat  the  eggs  and  mix  them 
in,  then  the  powder,  add  lemon  or  cinnamon 
flavoring,  then  flour  Let  the  dough,  after  it 
has    been    patted    smooth,  stand  on  the  table  a 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


61 


few  minutes  before  rolling  it  ou*.  Sift  sugar  over 
tlie  sheet  of  dough  before  cutting  out  the 
cakes.  Another  good  kind  less  rich  was  given  at 
No.  11. 


MENU     NO.     XXX.— LUNCHEON. 


301-Colisi>mme  aiix  Pates  d'ltalie. 

3  quarts  of  rich  soup  stock. 

A  shank  of  veak 

A  small  knuckle-bone  of  boiled  ham. 

2  or  3  tomatoes. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  alphabet  pastes. 
Salt  and  pepper. 

Take  about  3  quarts  of  soup  stock,  as  com- 
monly made  by  boiliiig  any  kind  of  fresh  meat 
bouf'S  and  fragments,  and  a  small  bunch  of 
v.jgetables  in  water,  and  to  give  it  color  and  rich- 
uess  roast  a  veal  shank  or  other  veal  bones 
nicely  brown  in  the  oven,  basting  with  a  little 
butter  if  convenient  to  help  the  coloring, 
and  then  boil  the  roasted  veal  in 
the  stock.  Add,  for  flavoring  the  ham  bone, 
tomatoes  broken  in  nieces  and  perhaps  a  little 
minced  onion,  if  not  ah'eady  in  the  stock.  Put 
in  also  a  teaspoonfal  of  black  pepper  and  the 
same  of  salt.  When  these  additions  have  been 
cooked  in  the  stock  abont  an  hour  strain  it  off  into 
a  jar  or  other  deep  vessel,  take  off  the  grease, 
and  when  the  coasomme  thus  made  has  settled, 
pour  it  through  either  a  broth  napkin  or  jelly 
bag  without  the  sediment,  then  set  it  over  the 
fire  to  get  hot  again. 

Boil  the  Italian  pastes  gently  in  water  for  not 
more  than  fifteen  minutes,  drain  off  and  put  the 
pastes  into  the  consomme.  For  directions  for 
the  super-elariticatioii  of  consommes  and  thick- 
ening— which  is  not  ordinarily  necessary — see 
Nos.  lis,  131  and  254 


302— To  Carl  Celery.    ' 

The  tops  of  the  stalks  of  celery  are  made 
to  curl  outward  for  ornamental  purposes 
by  slitting  them  with  a  penknife  as  closely 
as  the  fringe  is  desired  to  be  fine,  and  the  slits 
should  all  end  at  an  even  line.  Where  a  large 
amount  of  celery  is  used  every  day  set 
on  the  tables  in  celery  glasses.  A  kind  of 
rake  is  used  instead  of  the  pen- 
knife, made  by  driving  a  number  of 
the  three-edged  sacking  needles  of  the  smallest 
size  through  a  soft  piece  of  cigar  box  wood.  The 
celery  ends  are  combed  with  this  and  set  in 
glasses  of  ice-water  to  curl  at  leisure. 

303-L.r)bsier  in  the  Shell. 

Keep  the  lobster  on  ice  till  wanted.  Crack  the 
clams,  cut  in  two  lengthwise,  then  across,  and 
servo  the  quarters  with  crisp  lettuce  or  other 
green  in  the  dish,  and  oil  and  other  condiments 
iu  the  casters. 


Much  the  same  as  to  the  filling  as  the 
chicken  patties  No.  3.5.5,  but  brown  sauce  m- 
stead  of  cream  sauce  is  used. 

1  pmt  of  chicken  cut  in  dice. 

1  pint  of  blown  chicken  gravy. 

K<  cupful  of  mushrooms  cut  in  dice  seasonings. 

Light  rolls  or  mulBns  (No.  2.2fi)  cut  in  cup 
shapes,  hollowed  out  and  fried  light  browu. 

Remove  the  brown  skin  from  a  roast  chicken, 
cut  the  meat  into  squares,  season  with  i:)epper 
and  with  salt,  according  to  the  saltuess  of  the 
gravy,  mix  with  the  gravy  and  let  simmer  to- 
gether five  minutes.  Fill  the  shells  of  fried 
bread  just  as  they  are  to  be  served.  Garnish 
with  a  sprig  of  jjarsley  or  friof;ed  celery. 

To  make  the  chicken  gravy — supposing  none 
from  roast  chicken  or  veal  on  hand — boil  th.^ 
hones  of  the  chicken  in  a  little  soup  stock,  browu 
a  spoonful  of  fresh  butter  and  the  same  of  flour 
together  in  a  frying  pan,  add  the  chicken  liquor 
to  it,  stir  well,  let  boil  at  the  side  of  the  range 
and  skim,  then  strain  free  from  lumps  and  mi.^ 
the  chicken  with  it,  as  above  stated.   Send  in  hoi. 


305— KLssoles  of  Macaroni. 

These  are  little  rolls  of  macaroni  with  cheese 
cooked,  made  cold,  then  breaded  and  fried.  It 
is  necessary  to  boil  the  macaroni  in  full  ieugth 
sticks  that  the  tubes  may  be  kept  clear  and  open. 

8  or  10  sticks  of  macaroni — about  4-  ounces. 

3  ounces  of  cheese  and  little  butter  and  milk. 

1  egg  and  cracker  meal  for  breading. 

Roll  up  the  sticks  of  macaroni  (pound  paper 
length)  in  a  pudding  cloth,  pin  in  four  or  five 
places  without  quite  closing  the  ends,  as  the 
macaroni  will  swell  and  lengthen  in  cooking, 
and  boil  it  in  a  long  vessel,  like  a  drip- 
ping-pan, in  salted  water  for  twenty-five 
minutes,  then  set  it  away  to  get  cold. 
Chop  the  cheese,  add  }-<  ounce  of  butter  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk  and  melt  together  in  a 
frying-pan  without  letting  it  boil.  Take  the 
macaroni  out  of  the  cloth  and  dip  and  roll  it  in 
the  melted  chciese.  It  may  have  to  be  cut  in  two 
for  convenient  handling.  Afterward  roll  it  in 
the  egg  mi.-cod  with  a  spoonful  of  water,  then  in 
cracker  meal  and  fry  it  in  hot  lard.  Cut  in  2^4 
inch  lengths  to  serve.  Send  in  hot  May  have 
a  good  tomato  sauce  poured  under  or  a  garnish 
of  finely  grated  cheese  placed  as  a  border  in  the 
dish. 

306— Boned  Turkey. 

Singe  and  pick  over  a  fat  young  turkey,  and 
without  otherwise  opening  it,  cut  through  the 
skin  along  the  whole  length  of  the  back,  and 
with  the  point  of  a  knife  go  on  cutting  the  meat 
from  the  boue  on  both  sides  until  the  hip  joints 
and  wing  joints  are  reached.  Chop  through 
these    with  the    heavy  end  of    a    carving  iii'ifo, 


G2 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    ScHOOL. 


severing  the  legs  and  -wings  from  the  carcass  at 
tlie  socliets,  and  continue  cutting  close 
to  the  breaat  bone,  pulling  out  the  back 
lione  as  soon  as  it  ia  free  and  tak- 
ing out  the  gizzard  and  entrails,  and  on 
the  ridge  of  the  breast  bone  cut  carefully  and  a 
little  into  the  bone  to  avoid  cutting  the  skin. 
After  that  bone  the  legs  and  wings  half  way  and 
chop  off  the  rest.  The  meat  of  the  legs  and 
wings  ia  to  be  tucked  into  the  body,  which,  when 
done  up,  will  be  a  smooth  cushion  shape. 

Then  wash  the  turkey  in  cold  water  and  dry  it 
ou  a  cloth.  Spread  it  out  with  the  skin  side, 
down  on  the  table  and  cover  with  the  force- 
meat of  the  next  recipe;  draw  the  two  sides 
together,  sew  with  twine,  put  it  into  a  pud- 
ding cioth  previously  buttered  and  tie  and 
pin  it  securely.  Boil  the  turkey  in  salted  broth 
or  water  contaiaing  the  bones  and  any  other 
trimmings  left  from  the  forcemeat  besides  for 
from  two  to  three  hours,  according  to  size.  Let 
it  cool  in  the  liquor  it  is  boiled  in,  then  iiress  be- 
tween two  dishes  with  a  weight  on  top.  take  it 
out  of  the  cloth,  trim,  pull  out  the  twine,  wipe 
off  grease  and  jelly  with  a  napkin  dipped  in  hot 
water,  and  at  last  brush  over  with  clear,  melted 
butter  two  or  three  times  and  keep  it  cold.  To 
be  thinly  sliced  and  served  cold  ornamented  with 
aspic  jelly  in  the  dishes. 

307  —  ForCfincat     for     Boned     Turkey     and 
CliJcki'n. 

The  quantity  of  this  recipe  is  sufficient  for 
one  medium-sized  turkey  that  will  slice  into 
twenty-five  individual  dishes.  For  a  large 
chicken  the  amounts  may  be  one-half.  This 
makes  about  three  pounds  of  choice  meat,  in  ad- 
dition to  the  turkey. 

3  hens,  boiled  tender. 

6  ounces  of  fat  salt  pork. 

6  ounces  of  butter. 

6  ounces  of  white  bread  crumba. 

2  raw  eggs. 

8  hard  boiled  eggs. 

1  cupful  of  broth  or  water. 

1  lemon. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Take  the  dark  meat  of  the  fowls,  cut  it  in  very 
small  dice  and  keep  it  separate.  Take  off  the 
white  meat,  chop  tine  and  then  pound  to  a  soft 
paste.  Throw  in  the  fat  porli  minced,  the  tea- 
apoonful  of  pepper  and  salt  and  the  bread 
crumbs  and  mis  together,  and  soften  the  butter 
and  stir  in.  Mix  the  two  raw  egga  with  the  cup 
of  broth  and  add  the  juice  of  the  lemon,  and 
with  this  mixture  moisten  the  forcemeat  It  ia 
now  ready  for  use. 

Stew  over  the  turkey  about  half  the  dark  meat 
mince,  and  over  that  spread  half  the  white 
forcemeat.  Cut  the  yolks  of  the  hard  hniled 
egKS  in  quarters  and  scatter  some  over  the  layer 
of  forcemeat,  then  the  rest  of  the  minced  dark 


meat,  then  the  remaining  forcemeat  and  egg 
yolks.  Do  up  the  boned  turkey  thus  filled  as 
directed  in  the  preceding  recipe. 

When  sliced  cold  the  above  shows  little  dark 
squares  set  in  a  white  meat,  all  spotted  through 
with  the  yellow  egg  yoiks.  Thougii  lengthy  in 
directions  there  is  nothing  difficult  and  the  dish 
ia  one  of  the  finest  possible. 

308-Oy.ster  Salad. 

a  dozen  fresh  oysters. 

3  heads  of  celery  with  part  of  their  green  tops. 

About  half  as  much  tender  white  cabbage. 

The  mayonaise  salad  dressing.  No.  68. 

After  washing  the  celery  and  cabbage  throw 
them  into  boiling  salted  water,  let  boil  .5  min- 
utes, pour  off  the  hot  water  and  drain  and  chop 
theiu  fine.  The  green  celery  leaves  acquire  an 
intenaer  (;reen  in  the  boiling  water  and  when 
chopped  with  the  rest  give  a  color  to  the  whole. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  and  boil 
and  skim  it  Add  an  equal  quantity  of  vinegar, 
some  broKen  pepper-corns,  pepper-sauce  and 
salt.  Put  in  the  oysters  and  keep  shaking  the 
pan  while  they  are  scalding  that  they  may  sot  in 
round  and  jilump  shape  Do  not  let  them  boil. 
Drain  and  set  them  away  on  a  dish  to  become  ice 
cold. 

When  to  be  served  season  the  chopped  cel- 
ery slightly  with  oil  and  vinegar.  Spread  part 
of  in  a  dish  or  in  individual  dishes,  place  the 
oysters  in  it  aide  by  side  and  the  rest  of  the 
celery  on  top  of  them.  Smooth  the  top  a  little 
and  pour  mayonaise  over  just  thin  enough  to 
run. 


Pickled  or  spiced  oysters  answer  well  for  salad 
s  above  instead  of  the  fresh. 


309— Cheese  Curd  Puffs. 

3  ounces  of  cream   curd  (product  of   1   quart 
of  rich  milk  curdled  with  rennet). 
3^i  pint  of  milk — 14  coffee  cupful. 

1  ounce  of   bntter — size  of    an  egg, 
3  ounces  of  flour^a  teacupful. 

2  ounces  of  grated  cheese. 

3  eggs. 

Some  pie  paste  for  the  bottoms. 

This  is  a  mixtnre  that  puffs  up,  hollow  like 
cream  puffs,  and  is  made  into  a  cooked  paste  be- 
fore baking  as  follows : 

The  curd  must  have  been  scalded  and  drained 
dry,  as  in  making  cheese  or  smearkase. 

Boil  the  milk  with  the  butter  in  it ;  drop  in  the 
flour  all  at  once  and  stir  the  paste  over  the  fire 
a  few  minutes. 

Put  in  the  curd  and  the  grated  cheese  and 
pound  the  mixture  smooth;  then  add  the  egga 
one  at  a  time  and  beat  them  in. 

You  may  di*op  spoonfuls  of  this  cheese-fla- 
vored mixture  into  patty  pans,  lined  thinly  with 
pie  paste,  and  hake  in   a  slack  oven;    or  else  cut 


Chicago  heraLD  cooking  school. 


63 


out  flats,  very  thin  rolled;  put  a  spoonful  of  the 
mixture  in  the  middle  and  pinch  up  the  aides 
like  a  three-cornered  hat  and  bake  on  a  bisctut 
pan.  They  will  open  out  in  baking.  Good  to  eat 
with  apple  sauce. 

310— Orange  .  Honey    Tartlets. 

The  rich  sweetmeat  variously  known  as  orange 
paste,  honey,  or  conserve,  or  (airy  butter,  is 
made  as  follows: 

8  ounces  of  sugar. 

2  large  oranges. 

2  lemons — juice  only. 

2  ounces  of  butter. 

3  yollis  and  1  whole  eggs. 

Little  rose  water  or  extract,  if  at  hand. 

Put  the  sugar  and  butter  into  a  bright  sauce- 
pan, grate  in  the  yellow  rinds  (using  a  tin  grate 
and  scraping  off  with  a  fork  what  adheres),  and 
squeeze  in  the  juice  of  both  oranges  and 
lemons.  Stir  up  and  boil,  add  the  eggs  and  let 
cook  at  the  side  of  the  range  until  it  looks  lilie 
melted  cheese.  Use  cold  to  fill  tartleis  and 
spread  between  cakes. 


The  same  kind  of  vol-au-vent  patty  cases  de- 
scribed at  No.  2.56  are  used  for  filling  with  sweets. 
Cut  them  out  vound  or  in  diamond  shapes,  and 
cut  a  small  middle  not  quite  through.  When 
the  puff  paste  are  baked  take  out  the  middle  and 
put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  the  orange  honey. 


311— Charlotte  Russe 


Make   it    with    white   lady-fingers   and    pure 
whipped  cream.     Individual  size. 


313-WIiite  tady-Flnsers. 

7  or  8  whites  of  eggs — according  to  size. 

6  ounces  of  powdered  sugar — a  teacupful. 

4  ounces  of  flour — a  rounded  coffeecupful. 

1  rounded  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Lemon  extract  to  flavor 

Wbip  the  whites  to  a  perfectly  firm  froth ;  it 
will  take  ten  minutes'  beating  in  a  cool  place. 

Have  the  sugar,  flour  and  cream  of  tartar  all 
well  mixed  together  by  running  through  a  seive; 
add  them  and  the  extract  to  the  whites  and  stir 
without  beating  till  fairly  mixed. 

Fill  the  lady-flnger  sack  and  tube  with  the 
mixture  (or  use  a  paper  funnel) ;  press  out  tin  - 
ger  shapes  on  to  a  sheet  of  paper;  sift  powdered 
sugar  over  plentifully;  catch  up  two  corners  of 
the  paper,  shake  off  the  loose  sugar,  put  the 
sheet  on  a  baking-pau  and  bake  in  a  slack  oven. 
Dampen  the  paper,  under  side,  with  a  urush 
dipped  in  water  to  get  the  cakes  off.  This  mixt- 
ure may  also  be  baked  in  molds. 

Line  rings,  molds  or  teacups  with  the  lady- 
fingers,  the  edges  first  dipped  in  white  of  egg 
and   well   pressed   toget  .er,    and    fill    up  with 


whipped    cream,    concerning    which     see   next 
article. 


MISCELLANEOUS     RECIPES. 


313— .Ibout  Whipped  Cream. 

Good  thick  cream,  if  cold,  can  be  made  firm 
enough  by  beating  with  a  wire  egg  whisk  to  fill 
charlottes,  or  even  plates  lined  with  a  thin  sheet 
of  cake,  or  to  spread  over  a  cream  pie  without 
the  addition  of  gelatine  or  anything  else,  and 
once  so  whipped  to  firmness  it  will  not  go  down 
again  as  long  as  it  is  kept  cold — provided,  how- 
ever, that  there  is  not  much  sugar  mixed  with  it. 
A  half  pmt  cnpfuU  of  good  cream  will  increase 
in  volume,  when  beaten  sufficiently,  to  fill  about 
eight  of  the  small  charlotte  cases  previously 
mentioned.  A  tin  whip-churn  is  a  useful  article 
for  the  ],  urpose,  though  not  essential.  It  is  a 
tube  witli  a  dasher  in  it,  the  bottom  of  the  tube 
closed,  but  perforated  with  holes.  Any  tinner 
can  make  them.  It  is  useful  when  a  bowl  of 
thin  cream,  slightly  sweetened,  la  to  be  churned 
to  a  light  froth  for  piling  on  top  of  a  cake,  afloat 
in  a  custard  or  as  a  sort  of  sauce,  as  well  as  or- 
nament to  saucers  of  blanc  mange  and  chocolate 
cream. 


314— Bavarian  Cream— Best. 

But  whipped  cream  as  stated  in  the  foregoing 
not  being  capable  of  carrying  much  sugar  or 
flavoring  a  little  gelatine  has  to  be  added  to  give 
it  substance.  Half  an  ounce  to  a  quart  is  suf- 
ficient unless  there  is  to  be  an  addition  of  some 
flavoring  cordial  or  fruit  juice,  when  an  ounce  to 
a  quart  will  be  the  i  ule,  and  four  to  six  ounces 
of  sugar.  No  boiling  is  required,  but  set  the 
gelatine — a  broken  up  sheet  of  the  opaque  kind 
is  the  easiest  to  work  with — in  half  a  cup  of 
milk  or  cream  on  the  shelf  of  the  range  where  it 
will  gradually  get  hot.  When  it  is  dissolved 
whip  the  cream  in  a  deep  pan  set  in  ice  water 
and  pour  in  the  dissolved  gelatine  while  heating. 
The  cream  can  be  then  put  into  molds  very 
slightly  oiled,  and  left  to  become  firm,  or  used 
to  fill  cases  lined  with  cake  for  charlottes,  like 
any  other. 

315— About  Puff  Paste. 

As  whoever  teaches  cookery  labors  under  a 
disadvantage  when  trying  to  instruct  in  an 
article  but  little  known,  we  have  found  the  re- 
mark several  times  repeated  in  different  forms, 
"few  know  what  really  good  pastry  is,  and 
fewer  still  know  how  to  make  it."  There  are 
half  a  dozen  public  places  in  Chicago 
where  perfect  puff  paste  is  made  every 
day,  and  half  of  them  exhibit  their 
wares  so  that  any  one  may  see  what  puff  paste 
can  be  when  at  its  best.  It  is  strictly  an  article 
of  luxury  and  rather  expensive,  but  not  so  costly, 
because  light  and  large  for  its  wei^'ht,  when 
made    thoroughly   good,   as    it   is    when     half 


64 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


spoiled,  in  which  state  it  is  a  heavy  mass 
of  washed  butter  and  flour.  It  is  an 
article  that  if  rolled  out  to  an  eighth  of 
■du  inch  thickness  and  put  into  a  hot  oven 
will  rise  to  aljout  or  over  an  inch,  and  be  light 
and  flakey  enough  almost  to  blow  away.  As  to 
the  uecesKity  lor  such  an  article  we  are  not 
speaking;  the  mere  fact  of  its  being  only  a  lux- 
ury makes  its  appearance  so  rare.  But  it  is  cer- 
tainly a  very  gratifying  accomplishment  to  be 
able  to  mal;e  it  at  will;  and  then,  besides,  the 
one  who  makes  the  fluest  puff  paste  perfectly 
Irom  the  smi]ile  force  of  hahit  ia  sure  to  make 
the  ordinary  i  ie  pa^te,  only  half  as  rich,  much 
better  than  the  average,  through  the  observance 
of  the  same  simple  rules  in  both  cases. 

We  gave  the  plain  and  simple  formula,  such  as 
moat  pastry  cooks  follow,  at  No.  56,  and  have 
referred  to  it  since,  but  have  now  to  mention  the 
points,  often  of  more  consequence  than  the 
recipe  itself,  which  a  recipe  does  not  tell.  There 
are  other  ways  of  doing  the  same  thing.  The 
standing  rule  is  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  pound  of 
flour  and  ice-water  enough  to  wet  the  flour  into 
soft  dough. 

You  may  mix  the  flour  and  water  together 
with  nothing  else  whatever  in  them,  roll  out  to  a 
sheet  and  place  all  the  butter  at  once  in  the  mid- 
dle. Cover  up  with  the  edges  of  the  paste  and 
go  on  roUinx  out  and  folding  up  till  it  has  been 
rolled  and  folded  six  times,  when  it  is  ready  for 
use.  Or,  a  little  of  the  butter  may  be  rubbed 
into  the  flour  as  shortening,  and  all  the  rest  put 
in  the  middle  and  rolled  live  times.  Our  rule  at 
No.  53  amounts  to  this,  without  weighing  in- 
gredients. 

Pour  a  cup  of  ice-water  into  your  flour,  mix 
with  two  fingers,  and  take  the  piece  of  dough 
very  soft  and  patit  smooth  on  the  table.  EoU  it 
out  about  half  an  inch  thick.  Put  lumps  of 
butter  size  of  guinea  eggs  all  over  the  sheet  at 
the  width  of  two  fingers  apart,  dredge  a  little 
flour,  press  the  lumps  down  to  keep  their  place, 
fold  over  the  paste  in  three,  roll  out!  as  before 
and  place  lumps  of  butter  the  same  way  again. 
Fold  up  in  three  and  roll  out  either  five  or  six 
times.  At  five  times  the  flakes  after  baking  will 
be  the  more  distinct,  at  six  times  the  shorter  and 
better  eating. 

But  the  little  points  that  affect  success  are 
these : 

If  the  paste  be  kneaded  or  mixed  up  hard  with 
toe  much  flour  it  will  not  roll  out  easily,  but 
spring  back;  then  if  the  butter  be  soft  it  will  be 
squeezed  out  at  the  ends  and  there  will  be  no 
puff  paste.  The  layers  of  dough  and  layers  of 
butter  must  keep  their  places  and  roll  out  at 
even  pace;  that  is  whv  it  must  be  made  of  cold 
materials,  and  either  be  made  in  a  cold  place  or 
be  made  so  quickly  on  the  kitchen  table  that  it 
has  not  time  to  get  warm  enough  to  soften  the 
butter  before  it  is  finished. 

Agam,  when  the  dough  is  soft  and  the  butter 
in  hard  lumps  these  out  through  and  destroy  the 


flakes,  and  there  is  no  puff  paste.  When  the 
butter  is  not  ah'eady  pliable  so  that  it  will  roll 
into  sheets  easily  It  should  be  made  so,  not  by 
making  warcn  but  by  pounding  with  a  paddle  or 
potato  masber  in  a  ivoodeu  bowl. 

Those  are  the  particular  points.  Some  add  an 
egg  to  the  flour-and-water  paste,  but  it  is  doubt- 
ful if  it  does  any  good.  No  such  thing  as  baking 
powder  is  ever  needed  or  should  be  used  for 
puff  paste. 

It  is  an  improvement  when  there  is  a  good 
refrigerator  at  hand  to  place  the  half  finished 
puff  paste  in  it  on  a  dish  and  do  the  other  three 
rollings  after  it  has  stood  there  half  an  hour  and 
become  cold  all  through ;  also  to  keep  the  fin- 
ished paste  in  the  refrigerator  till  the  moment 
that  it  is  to  be  finally  rolled  out  and  baked. 

Lard  of  a  good,  firm,  tenacious  sort,  or  part 
lard  and  part  butter  can  be  used  and  will  mak  > 
nearly  as  good  puff  paste  as  butter  alone — a  little 
salt  being  added — but  soft  and  oily  lard  will  not  do. 


316— About  Aspic  or  Savory  Jelly. 

The  cooks  have  never  invented  anything 
else  so  good  for  ornamenting  cold  dishes  and 
making  common  articles  look  uncommon  as  this. 
Those  who  delight  in  colors  and  bright  objects 
like  to  test  its  capacity  for  making  the  table  shine. 
But  it  should  always  be  preserved  in  its  original 
condition  of  something  good  to  eat,  and  not  de- 
teriorated into  a  wasteful  matter  of  decorat;ou 
only.  For  the  real  savory  .ielly  is  the  jelly  formed 
by  boiling  meat  down  till  the  liquor  will  set 
when  cold,  the  jelly,  for  example,  of  head 
cheese,  or  of  boiled  chickens  when  the  liquor 
has  nearly  all  boiled  away,  and  if  it  is  the  inten- 
tion to  make  jelly  of  such  liquor  an  extra  calf's 
foot  or  pig's  foot  or  two  will  be  thrown  in  at  the 
beginning  of  the  boiling  and  make  the  liquor 
stronger.  This  being  the  je'.ly  in  the  rough 
state — seasoned  as  soup  would  be  to  make  it  taste 
good  and  relishing — in  order  to  change  its  ap- 
pearance from  dull  gray  into  an  article  of 
sparkling  transparency  it  is  necessary  to  clarify 
it  by  boiling  white  of  eggs  and  lemon  juice  in  it 
and  straining  it  through  a  flannel  jelly   bag. 

The  above  is  the  exnlanation  of  what  is  aimed 
at  and  is  to  show  that  the  making  of  savory  jelly 
is  not  an  abstruse  and  foreign  affair,  but  anyone 
who  takes  pleasure  in  such  things  finding  at 
hand  some  meat  liquor  that  has  set  in  jelly  firm 
enough  to  cut  with  a  kuife  can  clarify  it  and 
use  it  to  setoff  a  luncheon  or  supper  table  in  a 
way  that  is  by  no  mea  .s  common. 

■The  uses  of  spica  jelly  wid  be  understood 
from  these  instances..  A  dish  of  sliced  chicken 
or  turkey  or  veal  or  corned  beef,  the  slices  all 
being  cut  to  some  particular  shape  and  size, 
may  have  melted  jelly  poured  over,  just  enough 
to  cover,  and  some  leaves  of  parsley  or  cress 
dropped  here  and  there  on  the  white  meat. 
When  cold  and  set  the  slices  in  jelly  are  cut  out 
and  placed  on  other  dishes  to  serve. 

Dishes  of  sliced  ehiclcen  or  boned   turkey   are 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


65 


decorated  aroand  the  edges  and  on  top  of  the 
meat  with  shapes  of  the  jelly  colored  in  two  or 
three  tints,  cut  out  with  sometiiing,  perhaps  a 
fancy  cake  cutter,  or  wiih  a  Imife  in  diamonds 
and  triangles.  The  jelly  for  this  purpose  is  made 
cold  in  shallow  plattera. 

Jelly  molds  are  filled  partly  with  thin  slices  of 
meat  kept  apart  by  cut  or  chopped  hard-boiled 
egss  strewn  over  each  layer,  with  lemon  slices 
and  parsley  or  celery  put  in  for  ornament,  and 
the  whole  cemented  together  by  melted  jelly 
poured  in.  The  veal  or  chicken  or  tongue  or 
corned  beef  loaf,  as  the  above  is  called,  can  be 
turned  out  of  the  mold  when  cold  and  the  dish 
ornamenterl  at  pleasure. 

Solid  articles  like  the  boned  turkey,  No.  306, 
can  be  incased  in  jelly  by  fir.^t  coating  a  mold  or 
jar  (set  in  ice  water)  with  jelly,  somethin  ;  like 
lemon  slices  being  set  ia  the  bottom  to  keep  the 
turkey  from  displacing  the  coating,  putting  in 
the  cold  turkey  and  then  filling  around  and  over 
it  with  jelly  nearly  cold. 


aiT— To   Make  Aspic   Jelly. 

To  each  quart  of  meat  jelly,  or  chicken  liquor 
that  is  boiled  down  so  that  it  can  be  cut  with  a 
knife,  when  quite  cold,  allow : 

2  whites  of  eggs  and  the  clean  sheila. 

1  lemon — all  the  juice  and  small  piece  of 
thin-shaved  peel. 

3  cloves,  bit  of  celery  or  parsley. 
Salt  and  white  pepper  to  season. 

Take  every  particle  of  grease  off  the  meat 
jelly  while  it  is  cold,  and  wipe  off  the  top  beside 
with  a  cloth,  then  melt  it  and  pour  it  through 
a  fine  strainer.  Mix  the  above  ingredi- 
ents with  it,  beating  the  whites  first 
with  a  third  of  a  cupful  of  cold  water.  Boil  it 
gently  for  fifteen  minutes  or  more,  taking  the 
precaution  to  set  it  at  first  at  the  side  or  back  of 
the  range  to  heat  genily,  as  it  is  liable  to  burn  on 
the  bottom.  When  the  white  of  egg  in  it  is  thor- 
oughly cooked  and  looks  like  gray  curd  or  meat 
in  the  jelly  strain  through  a  jelly -bag,  and  re- 
peat the  pouring    through  three  or  four  times. 

But  when  there  is  no  meat  jelly  already  formed 
make  some  by  dissolving  an  ounce  of  sheet  gela- 
tine in  a  quart  of  good  soup  stock,  season  it 
nicely,  let  it  get  quite  cold  to  remove  the  grease, 
then  melt  and  clarify  it  as  above. 

Make  different  tints  by  adding  burnt  sugar  dis- 
solved in  boiling  water  for  amber  and  brown, 
and  cochineal  or  beet  juice  for  pink  and  red. 


MENU   NO.   XXXI— DINNER. 


Extra  fine  jelly,  raoro  brilliant  than  is  ever 
seen  in  the  restaurant  windows,  is  made  by  put- 
ting it  through  the  clarifying  process  twice, 
allowing  a  little  in  the  measure  for  the  inevitable 
loss  of  quantity  in  the  repeated  boiling  and  filter- 
ing; and  a  correspondingly  enhanced  flavor  is 
obtained  by  adding  a  proportion  of  sherry. 


318— Bean  Soup— Plain. 

This  is  designated  plain  because  the  be  ans  are 
added  whole,  like  any  other  vegetable,  and  there 
is  another  way  with  the  beans  mashed  to  make  a 
puree. 

3  quarts  of  soup  stock. 

}{  cupful  or  more  of  minced  vegetables. 

liif  cupfuls  of  cooked  navy  beans. 

A  small  piece  of  lean  ham  or  a  knuckle  bone. 

Salt  and  pepper,  thickening,  parsley. 

The  stock  may  be  made  by  boiling  a  shank  of 
beef  and  any  other  coarse  pieces  in  a  gallon  of 
water  till  the  meat  all  slips  off  the  bones,  then 
strain  off  the  remaining  liquor.  The  ham  or 
ham  hone  is  one  of  the  good  flavoring  materials 
for  soup,  but  of  course  can  be  done  without 
Cut  up  the  usual  soup  bunch  of  vegetables  small, 
with  care  to  have  a  large  proportiim  of  onion, 
and  put  them  into  the  strained  stock,  and  the 
beans  previously  cooked  in  a  separate  vessel. 
After  boiling  a  half  hour,  add  a  spoonful  of  flour 
mixed  up  with  water,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
sprinkling  of  chopped  parsley. 

319— Beans  fur  Soup. 

Pick  over  the  beans  and  wash  them.  Better 
soaked  in  water  overnight,  if  remembered  in 
time,  but  will  do  without.  Put  on  a  small  cup- 
ful to  boil  in  more  than  twice  as  much  water  and 
a  lump  of  baking  soda  as  big  as  a  pea  and  boil  for 
two  hours.  Pour  off  the  water,  fill  up  with  cold 
water  instead,  and  when  ttie  beans  boil  up  again 
they  will  be  done  and  ready  for  the  soup  or  to 
eat  as  a  vegetable. 


Overanxious  people  can  make  even  beans 
burn  on  the  bottom  by  repeatedly  stirring  them. 
It  1-1  best  to  let  ati  such  things  alone  and  not 
make  them  mushy  by  bruising  with  a  spoon 
Hominy,  rice,  pie  fruits,  and  a  score  of  articles 
of  the  same  character  come  under  this  rule. 


330-Salt  Wliiteiish-IiKU-  Sanc«. 

Put  the  whitefish  to  soak  in  fresh  cold  water 
early  in  the  morning  and  change  the  water  tAvioe. 
Tliis  fish  becomes  soft  and  hard  to  manage  if 
kept  in  water  too  long.  Skin  it,  cut  in  suitable 
pieces,  put  on  in  a  frying-pan  or  fish-kettle  with 
cold  water  to  cover.  When  it  bods  it  is  done. 
Make  butler  sauce  without  salt,  and  chop  a 
hard-boiled  egg  and  mix  in. 

331-Veal  and  Oy.ster  I'ic. 

1  pound  of  flank  or  neck  of  veal. 
1  green  onion,  or  onion  and  parsley. 
1  or  2  ounces  of  salt  pork. 
1  cupful  of  small  oysters. 
i{  cupful  of  milk. 
Pepper,  salt,  thickening. 
Common  pie  crust  to  cover. 
The  veal  may  be  any  piece  that  is  not  s\iitable 
to  roast  or  fry.     Cut  inn  small  pieces  and  stew 


66 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


it  an  hour,  or  till  tender,  in  just  water  enough  to 
cover  it.  Cho-D  the  onion  with  a  little  of  the 
green  and  put  it  in,  the  pork  also  cut 
up,  salt  and  pepper  and  at  laab  a  spoonful  of 
thickening  and  the  milk.  Take  it  from  the  fire 
and  turn  it  into  a  shallow  pan  that  will  hold  IJ^ 
or  2  quarts.  Then  scatter  the  oysters  and  their 
liquor  over  the  top,  sprinkle  a  little  more  pepper 
and  a  dust  of  flour  from  the  dredser,  and  cover 
with  a  crust  Bake  about  half  an  hour.  The 
cru!!t  may  be  made  by  rubbing  a  small  cupful  of 
minced  suet  with  a  hoapin;,'  cupful  of  flour  and 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  mixing  with  lukewarm 
water,  or  with  lard  and  flour  in  about  the  same 
measures,  mixed  up  very  cold. 


333— Coarse  Hoaiiny. 

Is  seldom  cooked  as  much  as  it  ought  to  bo 
and  should  be  put  in  water  overnight  to  soften. 
Wash  it  free  from  the  flour,  which  is  the  part 
that  burns  on  the  bottom,  and  [lut  it  on  to  cook 
with  four  times  as  much  water  early  in  the 
morning.  Keep  it  slowly  boiling  without  ever 
putting  a  spoon  in  it  till  nearly  ainner  time.  It 
should  either  be  in  a  stove  pot  with  feet  to  raise 
it  from  the  Are  or  be  set  on  a  couple  of  bricks. 
Season  with  salt  and  stir  up.  It  is  better  with 
butter  and  milk  added  indefinitely. 


333— Indian  Puauins— Clieap. 

A  rich  pudding  of  this  kind  was  given  at  No. 
341.  The  following,  though  cheaper,  is  among 
the  best: 

2  heaping  cupf  uls  of  cornmeal  mush. 

2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  minced  suot. 
Quarter  cupful  of  black  molasses. 

1^  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger. 

3  eggs. 

Mix  all  together  gradually,  so  as  to  break  all 
the  lumps  in  the  mush;  balse  about  half  an  hour. 

A  small  cupful  of  cornmeal.  boiled  in  o  cupf  uls 
of  water  or  milk  with  salt  will  make  the  mush. 


334— Golden  Sauce  for  Puddines. 

}^  cupful  of  sugar. 

1  small  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch. 

1  cupful  of  water. 

1  ounce  of  butter. 

Yolk  of  egg. 

14  a  nutmeg. 

Break  the  nutmeg  in  pieces  and  put  it  in  the 
water.  Mix  starch  and  sugar  together  dry  and 
stir  them  in  and  let  thicken,  then  beat  in  the  but- 
ter and  egg  yolk  just  mixed  and  heaten  with 
some  of  the  sauce.  Take  it  from  the  fire  before 
the  volk  has  time  to  curdle  in  it.     Strain  for  use. 


325— Squash  Pie— Cheap. 

1  large  cupful  of  dry  mashed  squash. 
1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
Butter  size  of  a  guinea  egg,  melted. 


1  egg. 

J^  cupful  of  mill;. 
Little  ground  cinnamon  to  flavor. 
Lino  two  pie-pans  with  common  paste  and  di- 
vide the  mixtiu'es  into  them. 


336— Pumpkin  Butter- Fine  Quality. 

3  pounds  or  pints  of  dry  mashed  pumpkin, 
1  pound  of  sugar. 

4  ounces  of  butter. 

Flavoring  either  of  shaved  lemon  rind,  cloves, 
nutmeg  or  race  ginger. 

The  pumpkin  must  be  dry,  either  baked  or 
steamed.  Mash  it  through  a  strainer,  mix  the 
sugar  and  butter  with  it  and  the  piece  of  ginger 
bruised,  or  thin  shaved  lemon  rind;  let  simmer 
at  tlie  side  or  set  upon  bricks  on  tbe  stove  for 
perhaps  an  hour.  It  becomes  thick  and  semi- 
transparent;  can  be  kept  in  jars  in  a  dark  place. 
Good  foi'  the  same  uses  as  fruit  jellies  and  mar- 
malades. 


MENU     NO.    XXXII.— TEA. 


337— Chicken  or  Turkey  SausMge. 

Talie  the  skin  off  a  large  fowl  by  first  cutting 
down  the  back  and  cutting  around  tbe  joints  to 
the  skin  as  nearly  whole  as  possible. 

Cut  all  ihe  meat  of  the  fowl  from  the  carcass 
without  bone  or  gristle,  chop  it  raw,  like  sausage 
meat,  and  then  pound  it  with  a  masher  in 
the  chopping  bowl.  Weigh  it,  and  take 
half  as  much  fat  bacon,  chop  aud 
pound  it  likewise.  Mix  the  two  .pastes 
together,  season  like  sausage-meat  with  pepper, 
sage  aud  salt  Eoll  up  in  the  skin  of  the  fowl 
and  then  in  a  napkin,  and  boil  the  sausage  in  sea- 
soned broth,  with  the  bones  of  the  fowl  in  it,  for 
an  hour.  When  done  put  it  on  a  dish  to  cool  in 
the  napkin  it  was  boiled  in,  and  another  dish  or 
other  weight  on  top  to  give  it  an  even  shape. 
Slice  cold  and  ornament  with  jelly  and  parsley. 


338- Grape  Sweet  Pickles. 

.5  pounds  of  grapes. 

2  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar. 

1  quart  of  vinegar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  whole  spices — cloves,  al- 
spice,  and  mace. 

The  solid,  dry,  white  grapes  of  California  will 
do  to  make  into  sweet  pickles  at  any  time;  the 
jucier  kinds  must  be  taken  before  they  become 
too  ripe. 

Boil  the  vinegar  and  sugar  together  gently  for 
ten  minutes.  Put  in  the  grapes,  and  let  simmer 
in  the  syrup  half  an  hour.  Pour  all  into  a 
colander  set  in  a  pan,  put  the  grape.',  into  a  jar, 
and  the  syrup  back  on  the  fire,  with  the  spices 
tied  up  in  a  piece  of  muslin  in  it;  boil  ten  min- 
utes aud  pour  over  the  grapes  in  the  jar. 

As  with  vinegar  pickles,  Nos.  113  and  113, 
after  staniling  a  day  or  two  the  pickle  must  be 
drained  from  tbe  grapes,   boiled  and  pour.d  hot 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


67 


over  them  again.       Tie  down,   keep  in  a  cold 
place. 

339— Cliipped  Beef  in  Creaiu. 

1  large  cupful  of  shaved  dried  beef. 

1  cupful  of  water. 

1  cupful  of  milk. 

Butter  size  of  a  walnut. 

1  tableapoouful  of  flour. 

Chip  the  dried  beef  either  with  a  sharp  knife 
or  a  plane  and  boil  it  a  short  time  in  the  cup  of 
water  and  then  add  most  of  the  milk  and  the 
butter.  Wet  the  flour  with  the  remaining  milk 
and  stir  it  in  to  thicken 


330-  Butter  Kolls  or  Tea  Cakes. 

}^  pound  of  light  bread  dough — a  large 
oupfuL 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar. 

1  ounce  of  butter — size  of  an  egg. 

Yolk  of  an  egg. 

}^  cupful  of  milk  or  cream. 

1  cupful  of  flour  to  work  in. 

When  dough  has  been  made  for  plain  bread 
take  out  the  cupful  four  hours  before  the  meal- 
time and  mix  in  all  the  above  ingredients  except 
a  small  part  of  the  flour,  which  will  be  left  over 
for  dusting.     Let  rise  two  houra 

Then  knead  the  dough  on  the  table  by  pressing 
it  out  with  the  knuckles,  doubling  over,  closing 
the  edges  and  pressing  out  again,  and  so  contin- 
uing for  several  minutes,  till  the  dough  is  worked 
full  of  air  bubbles  and  light  and  silky  looking. 

Make  out  the  dough  into  round  balls  and  when 
all  are  molded  roll  them  out  flat.  Brush  one 
with  melted  butter,  place  another  on  top,  press 
in  the  middle  and  place  in  a  baiting  pan.  Brush 
over  the  tops  with  a  very  little  clear  melted  but 
ter.  Rise  an  hour ;  bake  fifteen  or  twenty  min- 
utes   Butter  inside  and  out  in  quarters. 


331— Apple  Jelly. 

3  pounds  or  quarts  of  apples  pared  and  in 
slices. 

1  quart  of  water. 
12  cloves. 

2  pounds  of  sugar. 

Use  ripe,  mellow  apples,  such  as  dissolve  in  the 
water  after  a  few  minutes  cooking.  Have  the 
water  ready  boiling  in  a  brass  kettle  or  bright  pan 
and  throw  in  the  cloves  and  apples.  Let  simmer 
till  the  apples  are  dissolved.  Pour  the  contents 
of  the  kettle  into  a  flannel  jelly  bag,  and  the 
liquor  that  runs  through  first  pour  in  a,;ain  and 
let  all  drip  dry  without  pressing.  Measure  tue 
clear  juice  back  into  the  same  kettle,  boil  up, 
and  then  put  in  ten  ounces  of  white  sugar  for 
every  pint  (two  cupfuls).  Simmer  together  for 
about  half  an  hour.  Use  cold.  Keep  in  jars  or 
glasses  tied  down  with  paper. 


333— White  Butter  Spouse  Cake. 

Easy,  cheap  and  useful  kind. 

8  ounces  of  white  sugar. 

10  whites  of  eggs — or  9  ounces. 

4  ounces  of  melted  butter — a  teacupfuL 

}:,'  cupful  of  milk. 

1:3  ounces  of  flour — 'i  large  cups. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  white  of  eggs  together  a 
minute  or  two,  add  the  butter,  the  milk,  the 
powder  and  flour.  Beat  up  well.  Spread  thinly 
on  a  baking  pan,  greased  and  floured  previously, 
and  bake  about  ten  minutes.  Good  also  for  jelly 
roll.  Does  to  make  when  the  white  of  eggs  is 
left  over  from  other  cooking  that  has  used  up 
the  volks. 


MENU     XXXn I. -GENTLEMEN'S     SUPPER. 


333— Broiled    Kidneys. 

Sheep's  kidneys  are  the  best  for  broiling; 
calves'  are  the  next  best.  Procure  them,  if  you 
can,  with  the  suet  still  upon  them.  Slice  them 
through  the  fat,  then  pare  off  enough  of  it  just 
to  leave  a  border  around  the  slices  of  kidney. 
Pepper  and  salt  them,  and  broil  in  the  hinged 
wire  broiler  over  clear  coals.  They  should  be 
fairly  done  through  and  no  more,  and  should  be 
turned  over  only  once,  that  the  gravy  may  col- 
lect on  the  top. 

Dish  the  broiled  kidneys  on  broad,  thin  slices 
of  broiled  potatoes,  buttered,  and  drop  a  small 
piece  of  butter  on  the  top  of  each  slice. 


334— Broiled  Potatoes. 

Pare  the  largest  potatoes  and  cut  them  in 
slices  about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick.  Touch 
them  with  the  butter  brush,  and  broil  over  clear 
coals  at  a  good  height  above  the  fire.  Try  with 
a  fork  to  know  when  done.  Dip  in  butter  and 
sprinkle  with  fine  salt.  Serve  with  kidneys, 
chops,  steaks,  etc 

335-Broiled  Mutton  Chops. 

Cut  the  chops  from  the  rack  for  choice.  The 
rack  is  the  name  for  all  the  ribs  when  they  have 
been  shortened  by  taking  off  the  breast  and  the 
shoulder  has  been  removed.  The  next  best  is 
the  loin,  continuing  from  the  ribs  and  trimmed 
to  the  same  length.  Having  divided  the  ribs  into 
chops  take  off  the  piece  of  backbone,  cut  away 
an  inch  of  the  thin  meat  at  the  rib  end  and 
scrape  the  bone  clean.  Flatten  the  chop  slightly 
with  a  tap  of  the  cleaver.  Lay  the  chops  on  a 
plate  and  touch  both  sides  with  the  butter  brush. 
Brol  over  clear  coals  about  five  minutes,  turning 
over  only  once. 

Put  a  tablespoonfnl  of  butter  into  a  tin  pan, 
tosether  with  as  much  water  and  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  pepper.  Shake  together  and  when  the 
chops  are  done  let  them  lie  in  the  pan  and  form 
their  own  gravy  until  the  other  articles  for  tlia 


68 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL' 


supper  are  ready,  then  dish  the  chops  standing 
almost  on  end  in  tlie  dish,  with  thin,  triangular 
pieces  of  toast  between,  and  pour  the  butter 
gravy  from  the  pan  around  them. 


336-Prawns  in  Butter,  or  a  la  Slaltre  d'Hotel. 

Empty  a  can  of  Barataria  shrimps  (which  in 
reality  are  prawns)  into  a  frying  pan  and  put  m 
a  piece  of  fresh  butter.  Shake  about  over  the 
lire  till  they  are  hot  through,  but  they  are  not  to 
fry  or  begin  to  brown.  Sprinkle  a  small  table- 
spoonful  of  minced  parsley  over  them  and  a 
pinch  of  white  pepper  or  cayenne.  Dish  the 
shrimps  piled  in  the  center  of  a  hot  flat  platter 
with  whatever  butter  may  remain  in  the  pan 
poured  around,  and  cut  a  lemon  in  quarters  and 
place  around  the  edge. 


337— French  Peas  In  Sauce. 

Pour  the  liquor  away  from  a  can  of  French 
peas  and  set  them,  on  the  stove-hearth  to  get 
warm.  Boil  half  a  6up  of  milk  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  Mix  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  in  a 
cup  with  cold  milk  and  use  it  to  thicken  the  other. 
When  this  cream  sauce  has  boiled  a  minute  try  it 
to  see  whether  it  is  scorched,  and,  if  not,  put  the 
peas  into  it  and  let  them  become  thoroughly  hot. 
Dish  them  as  a  vegetable  to  go  with  tlie  fore- 
going me  er  in  scollops  or  deep  dishes  or 
a  tureen. 


338— Sweet   Omelet  with  Jelly. 

For  individual  omelets  break  for  each  dish  two 
egKS  and  put  into  the  bowl  with  them  about  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Beat  to  mix,  but  not 
make  it  too  light.  Put  a  tablespoouf  ul  of  the  clear 
part  of  melted  butter  into  the  frying  pan,  pour 
in  the  omelet  without  waiting  for  the  butter  to 
get  hot  and  discolored,  let  cook  gradually, 
shaking  it  frequently  to  the  further  side  of  the 
pan  until  the  thin  edge,  forced  upward,  falls  over 
into  the  middle.  When  it  is  nicely  browned  and 
the  upper  side  just  set,  put  currant  Jelly,  or 
other  fruit  jelly,  in  a  long  line  in  the  middle  that 
is  made  hollow  for  the  purpose  in  the  side  of  the 
pan.  Roll  over  so  as  to  shut  in  the  jelly,  slide  it 
smooth  side  up  onto  a  hot  dish.  Dredge  pow- 
pered  sugar  on  top  and  mark  it  with  crossbars 
by  touching  the  sugar  with  a  hot  wire. 


339— "Mauls  of  Honor." 

However  carefully  we  may  try  to  set  down  the 
quantity  of  any  given  article  that  should  be  pro- 
vided for  the  entertainment  of  about  half  a  dozen 
people,  it  must  be  owned  that  an  impossibility 
arises  when  it  is  required  to  say  how  many  Maids 
of  Honor  a  party  of  gentlemen  ought  to  devour 
at  one  sitting,  if,  indeed,  they  ought  to  be  allowed 
to  have  any.  But  as  Maids  of  Honor  have  be- 
come so  uncommon  at  these  entertainments,  per- 
haps a  little  e.s-pIanation  had  better  be  made. 

We  have  among  our  collected  facts  and  scraps 


a  little  menu  of  one  of  Washmgton's  dinners,  not- 
a  state  affair,  but  small  and  reherohe,  where 
perhaps  General  Washington  sat  at  the  head  of 
the  table  and  Lady  Martha  did  the  honors  at  the 
other  end.  There  is  green  goose  as  the  piece  de 
resistance,  olives  are  set  out  among  other  things, 
and  in  two  places,  both  on  the  right  hand  and  on 
the  left — not  of  the  table,  but  in  the  menu — are 
Maids  of  Honor.  We  never  serve  Maids  of 
Honor  for  dmner  or  supper  in  any  hotel  or  res- 
taurant nowadays,  but — 

Well,  we  have  another  menu  of  one  of  Ben- 
jamin Franklin's  dinners  that  is  almost  a  fac- 
simile of  the  other,  but  has  roast  forequarter  of 
lamb  in  place  of  the  green  goose,  and  in  the 
places  occupied  by  the  Maids  of  Honor  in  that 
we  find  dishes  of  cheesecakes  in  this.  Now,  per- 
haps, some  reader  will  remember  that  cheese- 
cakes, than  which  there  is  nothing  in  the 
pastry  department  better,  used  to  be  ever 
so  long  ago  great  favorites  with  those  who 
gave  entertainments  to  a  few  friends, 
and  among  the  varieties  of  little  tarts 
that  bore  the  name  one  kind  was 
called  Maids  of  Honor.  None  of  us  can  tell  why. 
The  only  peculiarity  that  made  these  cheese- 
cakes different  from  the  common  seems  to  be  in 
the  use  of  the  lightest  puff-paste  to  line  the 
patty-pans  with  instead  of  a  plain  and  unaspir- 
ing short  paste,  making  a  frilled-edged  and  be- 
ruifled  article  of  much  more  frivolous  appear- 
ance than  the  steady  everyday  sort  of  cheese- 
cake. The  following  preparation  does  for  the 
filling  of  both  kinds,  those  made  with  fine  puff- 
paste  and  those  with  common  short,  or  with 
sweet  tart  paste. 

340— Cheesecakes. 

Procure  a  calf's  rennet,  such  as  the  cheese- 
makers  use,  from  the  butcher,  put  a  piece  the 
size  of  two  fingers  into  a  vial,  fill  up  with  water. 
When  it  has  stood  a  few  hours  strain  the  rennet- 
water  into  a  pan  of  new  milk,  and  stir  to  mix. 
In  two  or  three  hours  the  milk  will  turn  to  curds 
and  whey.  Set  the  pan  over  a  slow  fire  to  get 
hot  without  scorching  at  bottom,  and  without 
stirring.  When  at  the  boiling  point  pour  the 
curd  into  a  napkin  set  in  a  strainer,  tie  and  hang 
up  to  drip  dry.  This  curd  is  good  for  a  number 
of  excellent  articles.     For  cheesecakes  take: 

12  ounces  of  curd — product  of  4  quarts  milk. 
4  ounces  of  sugar — f^2  teacupful. 

3  ounces  of  butter — same  measure. 

4  yolks  of  eggs. 

Lemon  rind  grated,  or  lemon  extraci 

Grated  nutmeg. 

Pinch  of  salt. 

Hub  the  curd,  as  taken  from  the  draining 
cloth,  through  a  flour  sieve,  mash  it  smooth,  add 
the  other  ingredients  and  pound  them  all  to- 
gether. Line  patty-pans  with  paste,  nearly  fill 
with  the  mixture,  bake  about  fifteen  minutes. 
The  curd  mixture,  though  seemingly  too  firm  at 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


69 


first,  melts  and  puffs  up  in  the  oven.     Dredge 
powdered  sugar  over  the  tops  when  done. 


As  substitutes  for  rennet  curd,  which  is  aa 
sweet  as  pounded  almonds,  the  curd  of  sour  milk 
and  the  curd  of  a  custard  that  is  spoiled  through 
letting  it  boil,  can  be  used  if  prepared  by  scald- 
ing and  draining  in  the  same  way,  but  will  not  be 
quite  BO  good. 


MENU     NO.    XXXIV— BREAKFAST. 


341— Melon  Salad. 

Pare  the  rind  from  half  a  musk  melon ;  out  the 
melon  slices  to  sizes  like  sliced  cucumbers;  place 
in  a  bowl ;  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper  and  shake 
about  with  3  or  4  tablespoonsful  of  olive  oil. 
When  that  is  well  distributed  sprinkle  with  vine- 
gar, a  spoonful  at  a  time,  enough  to  flavor  and 
moisten  without  leaving  any  residue  iu  the  bot- 
tom of  the  bowl.  Serve  heaped  in  the  middle  of 
a  flat  platter  and  garnish  with  green.  Takes  the 
place  of  fruit  at  the  beginning  of  breakfast. 


343— Fried  Oysters— SiiiKle  Breaded. 

Dry  the  oysters  by  pressing  with  a  napkin: 
drop  them  into  beaten  eg^^  in  which  is  a  little 
salt,  and  out  of  that  into  cracker  meal.  Give 
them  a  good  coating  by  pressing  with  care,  not  to 
rub  or  leave  a  bare  place  for  the  grease  to  get  in. 
Drop  them  singly  into  a  frying-pan  of  hot  lard. 
Pry  brown  in  3  or  3  minutes.  Dish  neatly  in  the 
middle  of  a  hot  platter,  with  a  quartered  lemon 
and  sprigs  of  parsley. 


343— Fried  Oysters— Double  Breaded. 

Out  of  their  own  liquor  into  cracker  meal, 
coat  well,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  cracker 
meal  again.  Fry  four  or  five  minutes.  Oysters 
look  twice  as  large  as  they  really  are  when 
double  breaded. 


Various  fancies  are  made  known  by  different 
people  in  regard  to  fried  oysters,  the  commonest 
being  a  preference  for  corn  meal  to  dip  them  in 
instead  of  cracker  meal.  Fried  oysters  never 
look  very  well  done  that  way  and  are  only  served 
so  when  so  ordered  A  hotelkeeper  of  con- 
siderable traveling  experience  used  to  say  the 
best  he  ever  ate  were  breaded  with  white  of  egg 
and  cracker  meal  and  patted  down  flat,  then 
served  set  on  edge  with  very  small  and  thin 
pieces  of  buttered  toast  between,  like  so  many 
'  lamb  chops  set  up  in  a  dish. 


344— Corn  Bread— Good  Common. 

1  cupful  of  white  corn  meal. 

1  large  cookins-spoonfnl  of  melted  lard. 

1  cupful  of  boiling  water. 

1  small  cupful  of  cold  water  or  milk. 

1  egg.     Little  salt. 

1  teaspoonful  of  caking  powder. 

Scald  most  of  the  meal  with  the  boiling  water- 


which  ia  the  most  essential  thing  in  making  first- 
rate  corn  bread — then  add  the  other  ingredients, 
the  powder  last,  and  beat  up  thoroughly.  Make 
baking  pan  hot  in  the  oven  without  greasing  it. 
When  the  batter  is  poured  into  a  pan  hissing  hot 
it  never  sticks,  and  there  will  be  no  discoloration 
of  burnt  grease.  It  should  be  over  an  inch  deep 
in  the  pan  and  bake  about  half  an  hour.  The 
top  crust  should  be  baked  quickly  that  the  bread 
may  rise  with  a  smooth  top,  not  cracked  open. 

Beally  good  corn  bread  makers  are  about  as 
scarce  as  are  the  makers  of  fine  puff-paste.  Few 
aeem  to  know  how  good  corn  bread  can  be,  and 
how  quickly  skillful  hands  can  make  the  people 
leave  all  other  kinds  of  bread  and  prefer  this. 

Buttermilk  and  aoda  can  be  used  instead  of 
the  cold  milk  and  powder. 


345— Ijiver  and  Salt  Fork,  witli  Gravy. 

Cut  three  slices  of  salt  or  pickled  pork,  then 
divide  them,  making  six  pieces,  and  fry  them  on 
both  sides.  Take  out  the  pork  and  fr}'  six  slices 
of  liver  in  the  fat,  and  pepper  it  well  while  cook- 
ing. When  done  on  both  sides  take  out  the  liver 
and  make  gravy  in  the  pan  by  putting  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  stirring  it  about  over  the 
fire  until  it  ia  well  mixed  with  the  fat  and  gravy, 
then  pour  in  a  cup  of  water,  and  let  boil  up. 
Strain  this  sauce  over  the  liver  and  pork  in  the 
dish.  If  not  salt  enough  from  the  pork,  aait 
should  be  added. 


346— Hominy    Grits,  Fine    Hominy   or  Sauip. 

Experiments  tried  for  the  purpose  with  this 
troublesome  article  have  proved  that  if  it  ia 
washed  free  from  the  flour  that  is  in  it,  put  into 
water  that  is  already  boiling,  and  kept  in  motion 
till  It  boils  again,  it  may  then  be  left  to  simmer 
with  the  lid  on  for  the  neceaaary  two  hours  with- 
out danger  of  burning;  and  also  that  It  does  as 
well  and  cooks  as  quickly  without  previous  soak- 
ing ill  water  as  with  it  Use  three  cupfuls  of 
water  to  one  of  hominy,  and  add  milk  and  salt 
when  it  boils  dry.  There  are  such  things  aa 
double  kettles  for  boiling  these  mealy  articles  of 
diet  in,  but  few  care  to  provide  them. 

Hominy  grits  cooked  as  above,  and  perhaps 
with  a  little  butt  r  stirred  in,  is  served  either  as 
mush  with  miik,  or  as  a  vegetable,  with  a  diah 
of  liver  and  salt  pork. 


347— Baked  Bananas. 

Peel  a  dozen  bananas  and  split  them  in  halves 
lengthwise.  Lay  these  strips  iu  close  order  m  a 
baking  pan,  strew  sugar  over,  and  some  bits  of 
fresh  butter,  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  about  20  minutes.  They  should 
come  out  glazed,  and  if  not  syrup  enough  in 
the  pan,  a  little  should  be  mixed  in  a  cup  to  baste 
them  with.  Serve  aa  a  last  course  with  cake  and 
milk. 


70 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


MENU  NO.  XXXV.— LUNCHEON. 


348-LeK  ot  Bunt  Soup. 

10  pounds  of  sbin  of  beef. 

4  quarts  of  water. 

1  medium  onion. 

1  ounce  of  butter. 

A  bunch  of  soup  vegetables. 

1  tomato  or  some  catsup. 

Salt,  pepper,  cloves,  flour. 

BreaU  the  marrow  bone  and  cut  the  meat  in 
pieces,  simmer  them  in  the  gallon  of  watei'  till 
it  is  reduced  to  two  quarts.  Skim  when  it  iirst 
boils,  and  then  throw  in  six  cloves.  When  the 
meat  is  quite  done  tender  strain  off  the  liquor 
into  another  saucepan  and  set  it  to  boil  again. 
Cut  the  onion  across  and  across  into  little  squares, 
and  fry  it  in  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  but  only 
till  it  is  yellow  and  not  burnt;  then  put  in  a  ta- 
blespoonf  ul  of  flour  and  stir  it  up  with  the  butter 
and  onion  and  set  the  pan  in  the  oven  for  a  min- 
ute or  two  to  brown  it  for  thickening. 

Cut  the  soup  bunch  vegetables  into  little 
squares,  and  throw  them  into  the  boiling  broth. 
Chop  some  of  the  lean  meat,  about  enough  to  fill 
a  teacup,  and  put  that  in  and  then  the  browned 
flour  and  onion  out  of  the  frying-pan.  Let  boil 
gently  for  about  half  an  hour.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste  and  add  at  least  either  a 
chopped  tomato,  a  spoonful  of  catsup,  or  a  quar- 
ter of  a  lemon  cut  small. 


349— OystiT  Pies. 

The  individual  oyster  piss  of  this  sort 
at  the  restaurants  are  made  of  about  the 
size  of  a  common  saucer  and  contain  a 
dozen  or  more  of  small  oysters.  They 
can  be  made  smaller,  of  course,  to  suit  other  lo- 
calities and  also  larger  to  admit  of  division.  Lay 
a  very  thin  crust  of  common  pie  paste  on  the 
plate,  putin  the  oysters  and  their  liquor,  dredge 
with  salt  and  pepper,  drop  in  a  piece  of  fresh 
butter,  cover  with  a  thin  top  crust  and  bake 
quickly  in  a  brisk  oven.  Serve  the  pie  in  a  soup 
plate  and  pour  a  little  thin  oyster  sauce  or  milk 
stew  liquor  around  it. 

350— Potatoes  Baked  in  Milk. 

Or  Dutch  baked  potatoes.  The  excellence  of 
potatoes  cooked  this  way  is  dependent  upon 
slow  baking  to  evaporate  the  milk  without  burn- 
ing it.  Cut  enough  potatoes  in  thick  slices  to 
half  fill  a  two-quart  pan  or  dish.  Drop  in  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  in  little  bits,  a  teaspoonf  ul  of 
salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
then  fill  up  the  pan  with  milk  and  bake  for  two 
hours.  The  milk  remaining  in  the  pan  should 
by  that  time  be  as  thick  as  cream,  ana  the  dish 
should  be  light  brown  on  top. 


351-Cnrned  Beef  In  Jelly. 

Take  some  streaked  pieces  of  corned  beef, 
either  thin  flank  or  brisket  with  the  bones  re- 
moved, wabh  in  cold  water,  then  roll  up  to  about 


the  thickness  of  a  wrist,  and  t.e  tightly  with  sev- 
eral turns  of  twine.  Boil  the  beef  gently  for 
at  least  three  hours,  then  set  it  away  to  get  cold. 
Slice  the  rolls,  lay  the  slices  on  a  iarge  platter, 
and  pour  clear  aspic  jelly  (No.  olT),  just  enough 
to  cover  them.  The  jehy  should  be  only  just 
warmed  sufficiently  to  run,  as  if  hot  it  will  melt 
the  fat  and  make  a  bad  appearance.  When  again 
cold  and  set  cut  out  tlie  slices  with  the  jelly  coat- 
ing them,  place  on  another  platter,  and  ornament 
with  parsley,  cress,  cooked  beets,  or  shred  pepper 
pods. 

352— I'nmatoes  in  Mayonaise. 

Select  smooth  apple  tomatoes,  pare  them, 
without  scalding,  with  a  sharp  knife,  out  eacli 
one  in  three  or  four  slices,  but  leave  them  in 
place,  the  tomatoes  appearing  whole  in  the  dish. 
Keep  cold  till  wanted,  then  serve  with  a  spoonful 
of  mayonaise  dressing  (No.  (58)  on  top  of  each 
tomato,  and  a  border  of  shred  lettuce,  cress  or 
other  salad  green  around  the  dish. 


353— Apjile  SoniHe. 

On  account  of  the  scarcity  of  culinary  terms, 
the  word  souffle  has  to  stand  for  a  great  number 
of  hght  articles  that  may  have  very  little  resem- 
blance to  eaoli  other.  This  consists  of  a  border 
of  dry  stewed  apple  raised  in  a  iarge  dish  or  an 
ice  cream  saucer,  as  the  case  may  be,  the  hollow 
middle  flUed  with  boilad  custard  and  whipped 
white  of  egg  and  sugar,  like  the  frosting  on 
lemon  pies,  piled  on  top.  It  need  not  be  baked, 
but  the  top  may  he  browned  by  holding  a  red  hot 
shovel  over  it  or  on  the  shelf  in  the  ovea  Serve 
cold. 


354— Wafer  Oiiigerbread. 

1  cupful  of  butter. 

2  cupfuls  of  light-brown  sugar. 
1  cupful  of  milk. 

4  cuptuls  of  flour, 

1  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger. 

Warm  the  butter  and  sugar  slightly  and  rub 
them  together  to  a  creanL  Add  the  milk,  gin- 
ger and  flour.  It  makes  a  paste  like  very  thick 
cream.  Spread  a  thin  coating  of  butter  on  the 
baking  pans,  let  it  get  quite  cold  and  set, 
then  spread  the  paste  on  it  no  thicker  th»n  a  visit 
ing  card,  barely  covering  the  pan  from  sight. 
Bake  in  a  slack  oven,  and  when  done  cut  the 
sheets  immediately  into  the  shape  and  size  of 
common  cards.  This  is  also  known  as  euchre 
gingerbread,  is  serves  in  packs  and  eaten  be- 
tween games. 


MENU   NO.  XXXVI— DINNER. 


355— Pure  Soups. 

A  puree  is  a  pulp  of  meat,  vegetables  or 
fruit  pressed  through  a  seive.  Mashed  potato 
is  a  puree  of  potatoes,  technically.  A  number 
of  soups  are  made  by  thickening  them  to  the 
consistency  of  gravy  with  these  smooth  pastes, 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


such  as  puree  of  chicken,  rabbit,  etc. ,  and  puree 
of  turnips,  peaa  and  beans 

As  these  soupa  are  imperfect  when  the  pure- 
sinlis  in  them  lilie  a  sediment  in  the  plates,  leave 
ing  the  liquor  thin  and  clear,  a  number  of  pre- 
cautions and  expedients  are  generally  attached 
to  the  directions  for  making  them,  to  the  extent 
of  causing  them  to  appear  very  formidable  and 
difficult,  as,  for  instance,  it  is  said  the  soup 
must  never  boil  after  the  puree  is 
added,  but  be  conatantly  stirred.  In  regard  to 
the  present  example,  only  two  little  points  need 
be  made,  and  nothing  is  easier  ihan  to  produce 
this  favorite  soup  in  perfection; 

Be  sure  that  the  beans  are  cooked  perfectly,  to 
a  state  of  musMness,  before  they  are  maslied, 
and  use,  beside,  a  very  little  flour  thicken- 
ing in  the  soup.  The  bean  purae  Trill 
then  never  sink  aa  long  as  the  soup  is  kept  hot 
whether  it  boila  or  not.  The  aame  hints  apply  to 
all  vegetable  purees. 

366— Puree  of  Bean  Soup  with  Crusts. 

The  special  aeasonings  that  make  this  soup 
good  are  mustard,  butter  aud  minced  red  pep- 
per, to  be  added  at  last.  A  little  of  the  liquor 
from  the  boiling  corned  beef  or  a  knuckle  bone 
of  ham  will  improve  the  flavor. 

2  quarts  of  soup  stock. 

1  cupful  of  nai  y  beans. 

1  tablesooonful  of  minced  onion. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg  (optional). 

1  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard. 

Parsley,  salt,  little  ijiinced  red  pepper. 

Make  the  soup  atock  by  boiling  almost  any 
kind  of  meat  and  marrow  bones  in  a  gallon  of 
water,  with  the  usual  soup  bunch  of  various 
vegetables  in  it,  untill  the  liquor  is  reduced  nearly 
one-half.    Then  strain  it  and  skim  off  the  fat. 

Boil  the  beans  as  directed  at  No.  319,  with  the 
pinch  of  soda  to  help  dissolve  them,  and  when 
perfectly  soft  mash  them  through  a  solve  or 
gravy  strainer.  Have  the  stock  boiling;  pour  it 
to  the  puree  gradually  and  stir  to 
mix.  Throw  in  the  minced  onion.  Set 
on  the  side  of  the  range  or  on  brioiis  on  the 
stove  top,  and  let  simmer  1.5  or  20  minutea.  Sea- 
aon  as  already  indicated.  Add  a  spoonful  ot 
thickening  along  with  the  mustard.  Sprinkle 
parsley  over  the  surface.     Serve  with  crusts. 


■357— Conde  Crusts  for  Soup. 

It  is  a  common  fault  to  make  these  large  and 
unsightly.  When,  in  addition,  they  are  burned 
in  the  oven,  they  spoil  any  soup,  however  well 
made. 

Shave  away  the  dark  crust  from  cold  rolls  or 
slices  of  bread ;  cut  the  bread  in  neat,  dice  shapes 
of  even  size,  and  toast  it  in  a  pan  in  the  oven  to 
a  light  brown  color  all  over.  Pour  from  six  to 
twelve  in  each  soul)  plate  before  the  soup.  It  is 
better  not  to  add  these  crusts  to  the  soup  in  the 


pot,   as   they  dissolve   and  give  it  a  bad  apps.ir- 
ance. 


358— Boilrd  Codlisli,  with  Oyster  Sauce. 

Boil  in  plain  salted  water  generally  about  half 
an  hour,  or  until  the  meat  of  the  iish  will  leave 
the  back  bone.     Serve  with  white  oyster  sauce. 


359-WliitB  Oyster  Sauce— Commoi 

1  cupful  of  stock,  or  liquor  from  boiling  fish. 

2  dozen  oysters  and  their  liquor. 
Butter,  size  of  an  egg. 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

Have  the  fish  liquor  boiling,  and  pour  it  to  the 
oysters  to  shrink  them,  strain  the  liquor  away 
from  them  and  boil  it.  Skim,  stir  in  the  flour 
madeinto  thickening  with  a  little  water,  then  the 
butter,  and  at  last  the  oysters.  As  soon  aa  it  be- 
gins to  boil  again  take  from  the  fire  before  the 
oysters  become  hard 

360— Koast  Turkey,  Willi  Cranberry  .«iauce. 

Choose  a  small,  fat  hen  turkey  or  young  but 
full-grown  gobbler  for  straight  roasting,  as  the 
largest  turkeys  are  tough  unless  boiled  before  be- 
ing roasted,  and  a  fowl  of  any  kind  is  never  quite 
so  good  done  that  way  as  if  cooked  entirely  in  the 
oven. 

Singe,  pick  over  and  wash  the  turkey  and  truss 
it  with  the  legs  in  the  body  aud  wings  bent  under 
the  back.  Put  it  in  a  pan  with  a  tablespoonful 
of  salt,  a  cup  of  water  and  any  ends  of  beef- 
steak or  trimmings  of  roasts  that  can  be  spared 
to  enrich  the  pan  gravy.  There  will  be  required, 
also,  a  cupful  of  sweet  drippings  from  the  pre- 
vious day's  roasting  or  fat  from  the  soup  atock 
or  lard  or  butter. 

Boast  the  turlioy  about  an  hour  and  a  half. 
Baste  frequently  with  the  liquor  from  a  corner 
of  the  pan.  Aa  soon  as  it  has  began  to  brown 
lay  a  greased  sheet  of  paper  on  top  to  keep  it 
from  blistering.  Roll  the  turkey  over  occa- 
sionally that  it  may  color  all  over  alilie,  but  do 
so  without  ever  sticidng  a  fork  into  the  meat.  It 
is  a  good  sign  that  a  turkey  is  done  when  little 
jets  of  steam  burst  out  of  the  breast  and  thick 
parts.  While  the  turkey  is  cooking  boil  the 
gizzard  and  heart  in  a  little  water,  and  when 
done  cut  them  into  dice.  Let  the  pan  gravy  dry 
down  after  the  turkey  is  taken  outuntiltliefatcan 
be  poured  off  quite  clear.  Pour  a  cup  of  water 
into  the  pan  and  let  it  boil  to  dissolve  the  brown 
glaze,  then  stir  in  a  spoonful  ot  flour  thickening. 
Strain  the  gravy  into  a  bowl,  and  add  the  out  up 
gizzard  to  it.  Serve  some  of  this  brown  gravy 
with  the  turkey  and  cranberry  sauce  in  indi- 
vidual sauce  dishes  separately. 


361— Crrinberry  Sauce  for  Turltey. 
3  large  cupfuls  of  cranberries. 
1  small  cupful  of  light  brown  sugar. 
1  cupful  of  water. 
Wash  the  berries,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with 


72 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


363— Browned  S'weet  Potatoes- 
If  the  potatoes  are  of  good  size  pare  them  be- 
fore cooniag,  split  lengthwise  and  steam  them 
until  done.  Turn  them  into  a  baliing  pan,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  moisten  wiih  spoonfuls  of  fat  from  the 
roast  meat  pan  and  bake  them  a  handsome  brown. 
Sweet  potatoes  will  not  bake  to  a  rich  color  and 
be  really  good  un'ess  they  are  first  steamed  or 
boiled  thoroughly  done.  Thin  and  stringy  po- 
tatoes can  be  steamed  first  and  peeled  afterward. 


the  water,  spread  the  sugar  oyer  the  top,  cook 
wilh  a  lid  on  for  half  an  hour.  Pour  off  a  glass- 
ful or  two  of  the  clear  syrup,  if  wanted  for  cold 
jelly,  before  stirring  up  the  berries,  then  mash  | 
them  with  a  spoon.  Sometimes,  from  motives  of 
economy,  the  stewed  cranberries  are  mixed  with 
an  equal  amount  of  brown  sauce  from  the  turkey 
pan  on  the  same  plan  as  some  of  the  game  sauces 
made  with  fruit  iu  gravy. 


363— Gookins:  Sweetbreads  and  Brains. 

It  IS  generally  agreed  that  a  knowledge  of  a 
number  of  wliat  are  called  side  dishes  iu  private 
houses  and  entrees  in  hotels  is  a  desirable  thing 
in  a  cook,  if  only  to  break  up  a  dreary  repetition 
of  dishes  in  the  daily  menu  in  one  case,  or  to 
surprise  the  home-coming  head  of  the  family 
with  a  little  freshness  and  variety  in  another,  yet 
this  knowledge  is  hard  to  acquire,  not  through 
the  real  difficulty  or  complication  of  the  matter 
itself,  but  because  of  the  incomprehensible 
nature  of  all  printed  directions  that  include  some 
three  or  four,  or  more,  separate  operatious  to 
produce  one  not  very  important  result,  causing 
the  mystified  and  impatient  reader  to  say,  with 
the  girl  in  the  play,  "Oh,  we'll  just  stuff 'em 
with  beans  and  ingnn-f,  and  let'em  stew." 

Thus  we  have  known  professed  cooks  in  good 
hotels,  who  never  mastered  more  than  ten  or 
twelve  of  these  entrees,  which  they  had  to  shuffle 
up  and  deal  out  as  variously  as  they  could,  while 
the  articles,  however  placed,  were  always  recog- 
nizable aa  the  same. 

Should  we  here,  in  directing  the  making  of  the 
following  little  dish,  which  really  in  the  main 
part  talies  but  a  few  minutes,  begin  at  the  begin- 
ning, with  steeping  the  sweetbreads  in  cold  water, 
there  would  be  in  all  five  different  opera- 
tions to  perform  to  prepare  two  sweet- 
breads for  the  table.  However,  if 
the  learner  will  remember  that  both 
sweetbreads  and  brains  are  always  boiled  first, 
before  any  of  the  little  dishes  are  made  of  them, 
and  that  they  may  and  ought  to  be  boiled  the 
day  before  they  are  wanted,  and  be  a'ready 
cold  to  cut  up  for  side  dishes,  then  the  dirjc- 
tions  are  shortened  one-half  and  may  begin  to 
appear  plain. 

Steep  and  wash  the  sweetbreads  in  cold  water, 
then  boil  them  until  tender.  If  calves'  sweet- 
breads,    tliey     will     be     done     in     half   an 


hour;  if  beef  sweetbreads  they  will 
take  twice  or  thrice  as  long.  There 
should  be  a  little  salt  and  vinegar,  or  lemon  juice 
in  the  water  tliey  are  boiled  in.  When  dona 
take  them  up  on  a  d^sh,  and  set  them  away  to  get 
cold.  Tlie  liquor  may  be  used  instead  of  water 
to  make  the  sauce  for  them  afterward,  the  fat 
being  removed  when  it  has  become  cold. 

With  brains,  proceed  in  the  same  way,  washing 
away  the  blood  before  cooking,  and  after  tliey 
are  boiled  picking  them  over,  and  peeling  off  the 
dark  places.  Brains  need  to  simmer  geutiy,  in 
salted  water  only,  twenty  or  thirty  minutes. 


364--Kaeout  of  Sweetbreads  and  MusUrooals. 

3  or  3  large  sweetbreads,  or  1  pound. 

3^  can  of  mushrooms. 

2  ounces  of  butter — size  of  an  egg. 

1  tablespoonful  of  floar. 

Little  minced  onion  and  ham  for  seasoning. 

Juice  of  1  lemon, 

Cayenne  and  salt 

Fried  shapes  of  bread  for  the  border. 

Take  the  sweetbreads  already  cooked  and  cold, 
and  cut  them  into  large  dice. 

Make  the  sauce  for  them  in  a  deep  saucepan, 
first  putting  in  half  the  butter,  a  large  teaspoonf  ul 
of  minced  onion  and  a  very  thin  slice  of  ham, 
and  when  these  are  cooked  enough  for  flavor 
without  browning  nut  in  the  flour  and  stir  the 
mixture  over  the  fire  until  it  begns  to  color. 
Then  add  gradually  the  mushroom  liquor  and  a 
cupful  of  the  liquor  the  sweetbreads  were  boiled 
in;  let  it  boil  up  and  become  thick.  Add  a  pinch 
of  cayenne.  Next,  melt  the  other  piece  of  butter 
in  a  frying-pan,  put  iu  the  mushrooms 
and  the  cut  up  sweetbreads  and  shake 
them  about  over  the  fire  until  they  begin 
to  show  color;  take  it  off,  squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  the  lemon  and  then  strain  in  the 
thick  sauce  from  the  other  vessel.  Diah  them 
heaped  up  in  the  center  of  a  flat  platter,  or  of 
small  dishes  for  individual  orders,  and  place  a 
border  of  thin  shapes  of  bread  fried  in  lard 
around  the  edge. 


365— Fried  Crusts   or   Shapes  for  Garnisliine. 

In  a  case  where  economy  is  not  in  question  the 
handsomest  shapes  for  a  border  can  be  made  by 
taking  a  stale,  long  and  narrow  loaf  of  bread  and 
trimming  down  on  both  sides  to  some  pattern 
{like  a  piece  of  carpenter's  molding),  so  that 
when  it  is  sliced  up  with  a  sharp  knife  the  slices 
will  be  heart-shaped,  or  leaf  or  club  or  spade- 
shaped,  etc.,  and  all  alike.  Simple  triangles 
may  be  set  up  on  edge  around  a  large  dish,  and 
fastened  to  stand  by  dirping  the  bottoms  in  egg 
and  then  making  the  dish  hot  enough  to  dry  it 
This  makes  a  raised  case,  into  which  a  ragout 
like  that  of  the  foregoing  recipe  may  be  poured. 
Or  a  long  and  slender  leaf  shape  may  be  laid  on 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


73 


the  small  dish,  projecting  well  over  the  side,  and 
the  ragout  or  fricassee  dished  upon  the  end  of  it. 
AU  these  shapes  are  first  to  be  fried,  either  in 
lard  or  the  clear  part  of  melted  butter.  They 
take  but  about  one  minute  in  the  fat,  when  it  is 
hot,  and  need  care  to  have  them  all  of  a  nice, 
even  color.  Cold  rolls  and  slices  can  be  used  in 
similar  ways. 

aOG-Stiiffed    Onions. 

6  or  8  large  onions. 

14  cupful  of  sausage  meat 

)4  cupful  of  bread  crumbs. 

1  egg. 

1  cupful  of  brown  sauce. 

Pepper  and  salt 

These  have  to  be  prepared  early,  as  it  takes  a 
long  time  to  cook  onions  tender. 

Peel  the  onions  and  boil  them  in  water  10 
minutes;  both  to  extract  some  of  the  strong  taste 
and  to  make  the  inside  easy  to  remove.  Then 
drain  them  and  push  out  about  half  the  insides; 
chop  these  and  mix  with  them  the  sausage  meat, 
and  bread  crumbs,  and  egg,  and  a  good 
pinch  of  black  pepper,  and  little  salt. 
Stuff  the  onions  with  the  mixture  and  heap  it  a 
little  on  top  to  use  up  the  surplus.  Place  them 
in  a  deep  pan  that  will  go  in  your  steamer  and 
let  steam  about  an  hour  and  a  half.  Then  brown 
them  off  in  the  oven  with  the  cup  of  gravy 
poured  in  the  pan. 

When  not  convenient  to  steam  they  can  be 
simmered  in  gravy  in  the  oven  if  kept  covered 
with  a  greased  sheet  of  paper.  Any  kmd  of 
minced  cold  meat,  or  part  raw  and  part  coolied 
without  an  egg,  can  be  made  into  a  savory  side 
dish  in  the  above  manner.  See  hints  at  Nos. 
247  and  348. 


367— Indian  Fruit  Pudding:. 

3  cupfuls  of  milk  or  water — l).^  pints. 

1  cupful  of  yellow  coru-meal — 6  ouncea 

1  teacupful  of  minced  suet — 3  ouncea. 

3^  teacupful  of  black  molasses — 3  ounces. 

3  eggs.     Little  salt. 

1  cupful  of  seedless  raisins — 1  ounces. 

Same  of  currants. 

J^  teaspoonf ul  of  ginger,  cinnamon,  or  grated 
lemon  rind. 

Make  mush  with  the  meat  and  water  and  let  it 
cook  well  with  the  steam  shut  in  for  an  hour  or 
two.  Then  mi.'c  in  all  the  other  ingredients,  the 
fruit  previously  dusted  with  flour,  and  bake  it  iu 
a  pan  or  moid  about  an  hour.  Cover  with 
greased  paper  to  keep  the  fruit  from  blistering. 
Three  heaping  cups  of  corn-meal  muah  ready 
made  will  do  as  well.  The  above  makes  a  quart 
of  pudding. 

36S~-ljenion  Butter  Sauce  for  Puddings 

14  cupful  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoonfnl  of  corn  starch. 

1  cupful  of  water. 


Butter  size  of  a  walnut  ' 

1  small  lemon. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs. 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  lemon  into  the  sugar, 
put  in  the  starch  and  mix  them  well  together  dry, 
stir  them  into  the  water  already  boiling  in  a 
saucepan.  Add  half  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and 
the  butter.  Pour  some  of  the  sauce  to  the  yolks, 
beat  up,  then  mix  all  and  almost  immediately 
take  the  sauce  from  the  fire  before  the  yolks 
curdle  in  it. 


Any  of  the  foregoing  sauce  that  may  be  left 
over  can  have  the  whipped  white  of  an  egg  added 
and  be  used  to  fill  paste-lined  patly  pans  for 
tarts  or  cheesecakes. 


369— Pumpkin  Custard  Pie. 

1  cupful  of  dry,  mashed  pumpkin. 

1  cupful  of  common  custard. 

A  common  custard  is  one  egg  to  a  cup  of  milk 
and  two  tablespoonfula  of  sugar.  Prepare  this 
mixture  iu  a  bowl,  and  stir  the  pumpkin  into  if. 
If  the  pumpkin  be  not  dry — either  baked  or 
steamed — another  egg  may  be  needed  to  make  the 
pie  set.  Add  a  grating  of  nutmeg  or  a  little  gin- 
ger. Bake  iu  two  deep  pie  pans  lined  with 
paste. 


370-Good  Common  Mincemeat. 

3  pounds  of  minced  beef  or  tongue. 

3  pounds  of  suet 

4  pounds  of  currants. 
3  pounds  of  apples. 

1  pound  of  raisins. 

1  pound  of  brown  sugar. 

1  ounce  of  mixed  ground  spices. 

1  pound  of  candied  citron,  or  the  same  of 
orange  and  lemon  rinds  boiled  tender. 

1  pint  of  common  brandy. 

3  quarts  of  cider,  or  enough  to  make  it  juicy. 

Put  the  raisins  iu  whole.  Mince  all  tlie  rest, 
seasoning  the  meat  and  suet  a  little  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Should  136  kept  three  or  four  weeks  be- 
fore using. 

Makes  about  2}4  gallons,  or  40  or  50  pies. 


Nothing  is  saved  by  buying  trashy  currants. 
They  have  to  be  well  washed  and  picked  over 
free  from  stones,  and  the  more  dirt  there  is  the 
more  will  wash  away.  Some  currants  are  like 
small  raisins,  nice  and  clean  and  large.  There 
is  no  waste  in  them. 

371— To  Clean  Currants. 

Put  them  into  a  colander  with  holes  not  too 
large;  set  that  down  in  a  pan  half  full  of  warm 
water  and  stir  the  currants  about  vigorously. 
The  dirt  will  go  through  the  holes.  Pour  the 
water  away  two  or  three  times.  This  is  the 
quickest  plan,  and  most  thorough.  Spread  the 
currants  out  in  a  baking  pan;  pick  them  over 
and  let  them  dry  for  use. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


373-To  Clean  Kaisins. 

When  sultana  seedless  are  furnished,  or  even 
the  larger  kind  of  seedless  raisins,  put  them  in 
a  colander  with  a  handful  of  flour  mixed  in,  and 
rub  off  the  fine  stems,  which  then,  by  sifting 
about,  will  fall  through  the  holes.  When  the 
greater  part  have  been  so  got  rid  of  the  raisins 
must  be  picked  over  separately,  especially  to  re- 
move the  gravel  stones  that  may  chance  to  be 
among  them.  Layer  raisins  have  to  be  seeded 
to  be  good  in  anything — a  most  tedious  oper- 
ation, and  requiring  such  help  as  can  be  had. 


MENU    NO.  XXXVII.— TEA 

373— Oy-sters  Sauteed  or  Fried  Without  Esss. 

Out  of  their  own  liquor  into  cracker  meal, 
press  and  coat  them  well  without  rubbing,  as  the 
ooatiug  will  not  stick  a  second  time 

Put  a  little  butter,  say  as  big  as  a  walnut,  iuto 
the  frying-pan  and  when  it  is  melted  lay  in  the 
oysters  close  together  and  fry  them  light  brown, 
and  the  quicker  the  better,  not  to  let  them  cook 
hard  and  tough.  One  side  being  done  invert  a 
plate  that  will  just  fit  upon  them  in  the  frying- 
pan,  turn  over— there  should  be  butter  enough 
in  the  pan  to  spill— and  then  slide  them  from  the 
plate  into  the  pau  again  to  brown  the  other  side. 
Dish  them  up  without  breaking  apart  and  garn- 
ish with  parsely  and  lemon. 


374— CliipDcd  Beef  in  Butter. 

Shave  dried  beef  very  thinly  either  with  a 
knife  or  inverted  plane.  Put  into  a  pan  enough 
butter  to  cover  the  bottom  when  melted  and  then 
a  cupful  of  the  shaved  beef.  Dredge  with  pep- 
per. Stir  about  Wheu  fairly  hot  through  it  is 
done.  May  be  served  heaped  up  on  thin  toast  or 
in  individual  deep  dishes. 


375— Chow-Ciiow-Home-Mjde. 

3  quarts  of  green  tomatoes. 
1  large  head  of  cabbage. 
1  dozen  large  cucumbers. 

1  dozen  ouions. 

Chop  fine,  sprinkle  plentifully  with  salt  and 
let  stand  over  night  Then  drain  off  and  cover 
with  weak  vinegar  and  let  stand  two  days. 
Drain  off  again  and  add 

3  quarta  of  cider  vinegar. 

3^  pint  of  grated  horseradish. 

4  ounces  of  white  mustard  seed. 
1^  ounce  of  celery  seed. 

IJ^  ounces  of  ground  cinnamon  seed. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  turmeric. 
Same  of  ground  mustard. 

3^  pound  of  ougar. 
a'tabiespoonfuls  of  black  pepper. 

3  sreeu  peppers  chopued  fine. 

Boil  up  all  together  a  few  minutes,  and  when 
cold  it  is  ready  for  the  table.  Keep  in  jars,  cov- 
ered down. 


376-S(.  Charles  Corn  Bread. 

A  sort  of  cornmeal  cake,  but  not  sweet,  once 
famous  on  the  lower  Mississippi. 
2  small  cupfuls  of  white    cornmeal— 8  ounces. 
Butter  size  of  an  egg — 2  ounces — melted. 

1  cupful  of  boiling  water— }^  pint. 
Same  of  cold  milk. 

2  eggs. 

%  teaspoonf  ul  of  salt 

1  teaspoouful  of  baking  powder. 

Pour  the  boiling  water  into  the  meal,  wetting 
and  scalding  it  all.  Then  add  the  melted  butter, 
salt  and  milk  and  then  the  eggs. 

Put  a  cake  mold  into  the  oven  to  get  hot.  Add 
the  powder  to  the  batter  and  beat  up  thoroughly 
with  an  egg  whisk;  then  pour  it  into  the  hot 
mold,  which  need  be  greased.  Bake  carefully, 
like  a  cake,  about  }-^  hour.  The  batter  for  this 
when  ready  to  be  baked  should  be  as  thin  as  if 
for  batter  cakes,  and  the  top  crust  should  be  the 
first  to  bake,  to  prevent  cracking  open.     Eat  hot. 


377— Comijote  of  Ai>ples. 

This  is  but  another  term  for  apples  stewed  in 
syrup.  A  compote  of  fruit  is  understood  to  be 
different  from  stewed  fruit,  in  being  richer  with 
sugar  and  the  fruit  being  either  whole  or  in  large 
pieces. 

Five  ripe  apples  of  a  kind  that  have  proved.to 
be  good  to  cook  make  a  delightful  sweet  dish  for 
tea  in  this  way: 

4  large  apples. 

1  cupful  of  sugar. 

14  cupful  of  water. 

Piece  of  orange  peel  or  lemon  peel,  or  cloves, 
or  stick  cinnamon  for  tlavoring. 

Put  the  sugar,  orange  peel  and  water  on  to  boil 
in  a  deep  saucepan.  Pare  the  apples,  cut  each 
one  in  three  and  out  out  the  cores.  Drop  three 
or  four  pieces  at  a  time  into  the  boiling  syrup, 
and  let  simmer  about  fifteen  minutes,  or  until 
done  and  almost  transparent:  take  them  outwiih 
a  fork,  and  cook  some  more  in  the  same  syrup, 
and  so  on  till  all  are  done.  Serve  in  dessert  sau- 
cers. The  apples  can  he  colored  pink  by  adding 
red  fruit  juice  or  currant  jelly  to  the  syrup. 


378— Water  Spongre  Cake. 

Valuable  recipe.    Excellent  sponge  cake  and 
cheap. 
}/i  cupful  of  sugar — 4  ounces. 

6  tablespoonfuls  of  water. 

1  cupful  of  flour — 4  ounces. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  . 

Separate  the  eggs — the  whites  in  a  bowl  or  dish, 
the  yolks  in  the  mixing  pan.  Put  the  sugar  and 
water  in  with  the  yolks,  and  beat  them  till  they 
are  a  thick  yellow  froth.  Mix  the  powder  in  the 
flour,  add  that  and  stir  up  well  Whip  the  whites 
firm,  add  them  last     Suitable  to  bake  in  a  cake 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


75 


mold,  or  in  gem  pans,  with  powdered  sugar  on 
top,  or  in  a  sheet  spread  on  paper  for  jelly  roll  or 
for  linmg  Charlotte  molds. 


MENU    NO.   XXXVIII— RECEPTION. 


379— Potase  aux  Amaudes. 

3  quarts  of  white  soup  stock. 

1  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion, 

A  slice  of  lean  ham. 

}4  blade  of  mace  and  piece  of  nutmeg. 

6  cloves. 

A  sprig  of  green  thyme. 

1  pound  of  almonds. 

1  pint  of  thick  sweet  cream. 

Make  the  stock  by  boiling  an  old  fowl  and 
about  ten  pounds  of  veal  and  veal  bones  in  about 
five  quarts  of  water  until  it  is  reduced  three 
quarts,  and  sets  in  jelly  wlien  cold — about  hve 
or  six  hours  of  gentle  boiling  at  the  side  of  tlie 
range.  Take  care  while  it  is  heating  at  first  that 
the  veal  does  not  burn  on  tbe  bottom. 

Never  put  raw  ham  in  a  soup  boiler  along 
with  raw  veal,  lest  it;  turn  the  stock  red;  but 
when  this  stock  is  nearly  ready  to  take  olf  put  in 
all  the  seasonmgs  named  in  the  list,  except  the 
almonds  and  cream,  and  let  boil  long  enough  to 
flavor.  Strain  off  into  a  jar  or  pail,  take  off  the 
fat,  then  again  pour  the  stock,  without  the  sedi- 
ment, into  a  clean  saucepan,  and  sot  it  over  a 
slow  fire. 

Boil  the  almonds  a  few  minutes  and  peel  them, 
cut  about  one-fourth  of  them  into  shreds  to  co 
into  the  soup  at  last  Pound  the  larger  portion 
to  a  paste,  a  few  at  a  time,  and  add  spoonfuls  of 
water  while  pounding;  add  the  paste  to  the  soup 
and  season  with  salt.  Boil  the  most  of  the 
cream  separately  and  add  it  to  the  soup  along 
with  the  reserved  almonds  just  before  servmg. 


Cream  or  milk  added  to  a  soup  that  is  rich 
enough  to  become  jelly  when  cold  will  turn  to 
curd,  fine  like  meal,  if  allowed  to  boil.  The 
same  takes  place  in  a  rich  stew  or  fricassee.  Al- 
though this  is  not  always  a  disadvantage  it  is 
undesirable  in  a  soup  that  should  be  smooth  and 
creamy,  hence  the  necessity  for  reserving  the 
boihug  cream  until  the  last  minute. 


Serve  the  foregoing  soup  hot  in  cups,  and  let 
some  one  be  ready  with  a  bowl  of  cold  cream 
whipped  to  a  froth  and  drop  a  tablespoonsul  m 
each  cup  as  it  goes  in.  There  will  be  about  25 
cups, 

380— Scalloped  Oysters  in  Silver  .Shells. 

7  or  8  dozen  oysters  and  their  liquor. 

1  pound  of  fine  bread  crumbs. 

1  pound  of  fresh  crushed  oyster  crackers. 

13  ounces  of  butter. 

1  pint  of  milk. 

Pepper  and  salt. 

From  16  to  20  silver  scallop  shells, 


Soften  the  butter  and  brush  a  coating  of  it  over 
the  bottom  of  the  shells  and  strew  a  layer  of  the 
mixed  bread  and  cracker  crumbs. 

Shake  the  o^'sters  about  in  their  own  liquor  in 
a  pan  over  the  fire  to  make  them  shrink  a  little 
without  boiling.  Take  out  with  a  drainer,  and 
place  4,  5  or  6  in  each  scallop.  Cover  with  the 
mixed  bread  and  cracker  crumbs. 

Strain  the  oyster  liquor,  mix  the  butter  and 
milk  with  it,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
divide  it  by  spoonfuls  into  the  scallops,  moisten- 
ing the  crumbs  all  over  Wipe  the  exposed 
edges  perfectly  clean.  Bake  light  brown  on  the 
middle  shelf  of  the  range. 


381 -Fillets  of  Trout— Italienne. 

Choose  brook  trout  weighing  about  eight 
ounces  each,  or  lake  herring  or  Cisco  or  otlier 
small  fish  in  tbeir  stead.  Dip  them  a  moment  in 
boiling  Avater  and  peel  off  the  skin.  Split  them 
lengthwise  and  take  away  the  bone  and  lay  the 
fillets  in  a  dish  with  enough  olive  oil  and  lemon 
juice  to  moisten  them. 

For  twenty  such  fillets  five  eggs  will  be  needed, 
a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  some 
flour.  Beat  the  eggs  slightly  and  mix  the  parsley 
in.  Drain  the  pieces  of  fish  from  the  oil,  dip 
them  in  flour  first,  then  in  egg.  then  fry  m  hot 
olive  oil  or  lard  for  about  five  minutes.  Drain 
on  a  sheet  of  paper  and  dredge  with  fine  salt  It 
is  all  in  the  trying  whether  they  come  out  of  a 
fine  golden  color  or  not  Serve  in  a  hot  dish  with 
a  little  Italian  sauce  poured  under. 


383— Italian  Sauce. 

1  cupful  of  brown  sauce  (roast  meat  gravy 
strained  and  skimmed). 

1  teaspoonful  of  mioced  onion. 

3  of  minced  mushrooms. 

Same  of  parsley. 

Juice  of  1  lemon. 

Cayenne  and  salt 

Pour  half  the  juice  from  a  can  of  mushrooms 
into  the  brown  sauce,  add  the  other  ingredients 
and  simmer  together  for  fifteen  minutes. 


383— IVIaslled  Potatoes  in  a  Mold. 

When  mashing  the  potatoes  add  one  or  twoeggs, 
with  the  usual  cup  of  milk,  to  enough  potato  to 
fill  a  3-quart  mold.  Butter  the  mold  well,  fill 
and  bake  it  half  an  hour  set  in  another  pan  con- 
taining water.     Turn  out  onto  a  dish. 


384- Kissoles  of  Partridge. 

3  roast  partridges. 
14  cupful  of  mushrooms. 
1  small  cupful  of  butter. 
Same  of  flour. 
1  cupful  of  cream. 
Same  of  broth  or  water. 
A  slight  grating  of  nutmeg, 
A  little  lemon  juice, 
Pepper  and  salt 


76 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


Cut  the  meat  of  the  roast  partridges  into  the 
emallest  poaaible  dice,  mince  the  mushrooms  and 
add,  sprinkle  with  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  pepper 
and  salt,  grate  a  little  nutmeg  and  squeeze  a 
lemon  over  it 

Make  cream  sauce  by  stirring  the  butter  and 
flour  together  in  a  saucepan  and  adding  the 
broth  and  cream  when  it  begins  to  bubble,  and 
when  the  sauce  is  ready  moisten  the  meat  with 
it,  stir  up  well  and  set  it  away  to  become  cold. 
Then  make  out  in  rolls  about  the  size  of  a  finger, 
roll  in  flour,  then  in  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs 
and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Pile  in  the  dish  and  gar- 
nish with  fried  parsley. 


385— Reed   Birds,   Kaasted. 

Pick  and  singe  them,  cut  off  the  heads  and 
feet,  wipe  clean  without  drawing  them.  Wrap 
a  very  thin  piece  of  fat  bacon  around  each  one 
and  run  a  skewer  through  about  a  dozen  of  them 
placed  side  by  side.  Make  the  oven  hot  and 
roast  them  with  the  ends  of  the  skewers  resting 
on  the  edges  of  a  shallow  pan  on  the  top  shelf. 
Turn  them  over  once  while  cooking  and  brush 
over  with  butter.  They  should  be  done  in  six 
or  eight  minutes.  Dish  up  on  a  bed  of  fried 
bread  crumbs,  withdrawing  the  skewers  when 
the  birds  are  in  place. 

To  prepare  the  bread  crumbs  out  two  slices  of 
bread  extremely  thin  and  out  them  again  into 
very  small  dice.  Fry  these  a  few  moments  in 
the  clear  part  of  melted  butter  made  hot  for  the 
purpose.    Take  up  with  a  skimmer  and  .drain. 


386— Stewed  Celery. 

Cut  tender,  white  outside  stalks  of  celery  into 
3-inch  lengths  and  boil  them  for  10  mioutes  in 
salted  water.  Then  throw  away  the  water  and 
fill  up  instead  with  clear  strained  soup  stock,  add 
minced  onion  and  parsley.  Boil  until  the  celery 
is  tender,  throw  in  a  piece  of  butter  softened  and 
stirred  up  with  flour,  and  shake  the  stew  until 
thickened.  Dish  the  pieces  m  straight  order 
and  pour  the  sauce  over  them. 


387— Turkey  in  Mayonaise  Jelly. 

Cut  the  breast  of  a  cooked  turkey  or  chicken 
into  slices  and  then,  either  with  a  round  tin  cut- 
ter or  a  knife,  cut  these  again  into  shapes  all 
alike. 

Make  some  good  mayonaise  sauce  with  lemon 
juice  (No.  68),  and  mix  with  it  nearly  an  equal 
amount  of  aspic  jelly  (No.  317),  barely  warmed 
enough  to  melt  it.  Cover  the  slices  of  turkey  in 
the  dish  with  the  raayonaise-jelly  and  set  the 
dish  in  the  refrigerator.  Mince  a  slice  of  cooked 
blood  beet  extremely  fine  and  some  parsley  the 
same.  Take  up  the  slices  of  turkey  on  a  fork, 
when  the  jelly  ia  set  quite  firm,  and  dip  the 
upper  side  lightly  into  the  minced  parsley,  and 
then  into  the  beet,  making  them  appear  sprinkled 


over,  and  place  in  neat  order  in  a  clean  dish. 
Garnish  the  edge  with  green,  such  as  shred 
lettuce. 


388— Snow  Cake  and  Fairy  Butter. 

For  the  cake  take : 

7  ounces  granulated  sugar — a  small  cup. 
6  ounces  uncolored  butter — the  same. 
9  whites  of  eggs — 8  ounces. 

4  ounces  of  flour — a  cupful. 

5  ounces  of  corn  starch — the  same. 
Little  lemon  juice  or  cream  tartar. 
}{  cupful  of  milk. 

Flavoring  extract. 

Warm  the  butter  enough  to  soften  it,  rub  it 
and  the  sugar  together  to  a  cream,  add  the  white 
of  eggs  a  little  at  a  time  without  previous  beat- 
ing, then  the  starch  and  flour.  When  these  are 
well  mixed  add  the  milk  and  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  or  a  small  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract  Grease  and 
flour  a  mold,  and  hake  the  cake  about  half  an 
hour.     It  is  best  when  not  too  deep  in  the  mold 


389- Fairy  Butter. 

The  yolks  of  4  hard  boiled  eggs. 

1  teacupf  ul  of  the  beat  butter. 

3  heaping  tablespoonfuls  powdered  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  orange  flower  water. 

Either  grate  the  yolks  or  pound  and  rub  them 
smooth  in  a  bowl,  mix  the  softened  butter  with 
them  and  the  sugar  and  flavoring.  Set  the  mixt- 
ure where  it  will  get  cold,  and  afterward  rub  it 
through  a  sieve.  It  looks  something  like  ver- 
micelli. 

Pile  the  fairy  butter  lightly  in  the  middle  of  a 
cake  dish,  cut  the  snow  cake  in  slices  and  lay 
around.  They  are  to  be  eaten  together  like 
bread  and  butter. 


390— Pineapple  Sweet  Salad. 

1  pineapple. 

1  teaoupful  of  powdered  sugar. 

i.<  cupful  of  maraschino. 

Peel  a  pineapple,  cut  it  into  uniform  slices 
and  cover  them  with  the  sugar  in  a  Rlass  dish. 
Let  it  remain  to  form  a  syrup,  and  when  to  be 
served  add  the  marasehin  \ 


391— Meiinsues  vpith  Wine  Jelly. 

i  whites  of  eggs. 

i  small  cupful  fine  granulated  sugar. 

Tanilla  or  lemon  ilavoring. 

Put  the  whites  into  a  deep  bowl,  pan  or  pail, 
have  them  cold  and  beat  with  a  bunch  of  wire 
until  the  froth  is  firm  enougli  to  bear  up  an  egg. 
Put  in  the  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  flavoring 
extract,  and  beat  about  half  a  minute  longer. 

These  meringues  are  to  be  lioUow,  mere  shells 
of  pasting,  and  to  make  them  so  they  are  ba  led 
on  pieces  of  board  that  will  not  let  the  bottom  i 
cook. 

Cut  some  strips  of  paper  two  inches  wide,  place 
them  on   boards  that  will  go  in  the  oven,   drop 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


i; 


large  spoonfuls  of  the  meringue  paste  on  the 
paper  and  form  them  in  egg  shapes  or  round, 
smoothing  them  with  a  knife  dipped  in  water. 
Sift  a  little  sugar  over  them,  and  dry  bake  in  a 
slack  oven  about  twenty  minutes.  Too  much  heat 
will  cause  them  to  melt  and  go  down.  When 
they  are  cold  take  them  off  the  paper,  and  with  a 
knife  scoop  out  the  soft  inside.  When  to  be  served 
out  different  colors  of  clear  wine  jelly  into 
small  dice,  mix  them  together,  and  pile  up  in 
the  meringues,  which  serve  as  cups.  Whipped 
cream  may  be  used  the  same  way  instead  of 
jelly.  These  meringues  can  also  have  a  little 
whipped  cream  inserted  and  be  joiued  by  twos 
tOijether  by  the  bottoms. 


393— Star  Kisses. 
A  simpler  form  of  meringue  made  of  the  same 
pasite  or  frosting  as  tlie  foregoing,  common  in 
shops  and  hotels :  Procure  a  tin  star  tube  from 
the  furnishing  store.  It  is  about  the  length  of  a 
finger  and  the  point  cut  serrated.  This  is  in- 
serted in  the  point  of  a  funnel  shaped  bag,  which  is 
then  filled  with  the  paste,  and  star-shaped  drops 
are  pressed  out  on  to  baking  pans  slightly 
greased.  They  are  baked  to  a  light  lawn  color 
and  slip  off  the  pans  easily  when  col '.  No  fill- 
ing required.  A  sheet  of  paper  can  be  pinned  in 
shape  and  the  point  cut  so  aa  to  do  duty  tem- 
porarily in  place  of  the  tube. 


393— Wine  and  Fruit  Jellies. 

To  make  the  brilliantly  clear,  many-hued,  and 
delicately  flavored  jellies  that  are  found  on  the 
tables  of  the  best  hotels  and  at  the  confectioners', 
the  simple  lemon  jelly  has  first  to  be  made  in 
perfection.  It  is  technically  called  stock  jelly, 
because,  when  finished,  it  can  be  mixed  witti 
wine  or  other  liquors  and  cordials,  or  be  flavored 
and  colored  to  make  as  many  varieties  as  may  be 
desired. 

It  may  be  as  well  to  explain  that  these  jellies 
are  transient  and  will  not  keep  over  two  or  three 
days,  not  like  the  boiled  fruit  jellies,  but  of  tlie 
same  nature  as  the  old-fashioned  calf's  foot  jelly, 
made  now  with  gelatine. 

Once  making  stock  jelly  should  serve  either 
for  a  large  party  or  two  or  three  meals. 

For  3  quarts  of  jelly  take : 

3X  quarts  of  water. 

13^  pounds  of  sugar. 

4  ounces  of  gelatine. 

5  lemons — juice  of  all,  thin  shaved  rinds  of  2 
or  3,  according  to  size. 

1  ounce  of  whole  spices — cloves,  mace,  and 
stick  cinnamon. 

5  whites  of  eggs  to  clarify  it. 

Put  the  water  in  a  bright  brass  kettle,  add  all 
the  other  insredients — the  lemon  juice  squeezed 
in  without  tlie  seeas,  the  yellow  rind  pared  very 
thin,  and  the  white  of  eggs  beaten  a  little  with 
some  water  mixed  in  first.    The  clean  egg  shells 


mav  be  put  in  also  to  assist  in  the  clarification 
Use  the  sheet  gelatine  that  floats,  for  preference. 
Then  set  the  kettle  on  the  side  of  a  range  and 
let  it  slowly  come  to  a  boil  with  occasional  stir- 
ring. 

Let  it  boil  about  half  an  hour,  and  above  all, 
to  avoid  the  trouble  and  waste  of  having  to  boil 
it  again,  be  sure  that  the  white  foam  of  egg  on 
top  becomes  thoroughly  cooked  so  that  it  will  go 
down  and  mix  with  the  jelly  again  like  so  much 
meal.  Sometimes,  to  accomplish  this,  as  a  lid 
cannot  be  kept  on  without  its  boiling  over,  it  is 
necessary  to  set  the  kettle  in  the  oven  a  few  min- 
utes to  get  heat  enough  ou  top. 

Then  run  it  through  a  jelly  bag  suspended  from 
a  hook.  The  boiling  having  been  properly  at- 
tended to,  there  should  not  be  the  slightest  diffi- 
culty m  getting  it  to  run  through  not  only  clear 
but  bright  and  transparent  as  glass.  The  first 
pouring  coats  the  inside  of  the  filtering  bag  with 
the  coagulated  white  of  egg.  and  each  succeeding 
running  through  brightens  the  jelly. 


It  may  be  set  down  as  a  rule  that  this  kind  of 
jelly  cannot  be  successfully  made  without  more 
or  less  lemon  juice,  or  some  acid  equivalent — -it 
will  not  run  through  a  filtering  bag  without.  A 
cheaper  quality  can  be  made  with  less  sugar  and 
lemons. 

The  stock  having  been  made,  it  can  now  be  di- 
vided into  as  many  kinds  as  may  he  wished.  But 
the  stock  jelly  is  already  good  and  mildly  fla- 
vored and  care  should  be  takea  n  ot  to  over  season 
it,  or  injure  its  bright  appearance. 

Jelly  is  quite  as  much  for  ornament  as  use. 
It  can  easily  be  made  to  attract  notice  at  the 
finest  table  for  ils  luster  and  rich  colors  even 
if  never  tasted,  therefore  its  appearance 
is  the  main  consideration.  Lemon  ex- 
tract cannot  be  put  into  jelly  because  it 
makes  a  milky  appearance  and  dims  its  brill- 
iancy. Orange  extract  the  same.  Most  of  the 
other  extracts  can  be  used  to  flavor.  Use  wine 
in  small  proportion  to  mix  with  some  of  the 
stock,  and  color  deep  red,  but  run  through  the 
jelly  bag  again  while  it  is  yet  warm.  Flavor 
some  with  vanilla,  and  color  it  either  amber  or 
brown  with  burnt  sugar.  Flavor  some  with 
strawberry  and  color  it  pink,  and  leave  some 
plain,  pale  yellow. 

394-One  Quart  ot  Jelly. 

The  rule  is,  for  good  quality: 

1  quart  of  water. 

IX  ounces  of  gelatine. 

8  ounces  of  sugar. 

1  or  2  lemons. 

1  teaspoonful  of  whole  mixed  spices. 

2  whites  of  eggs  and  the  clean  shells. 

But  a  cupful  of  water  must  be  added  to  allow 
for  evaporation  and  loss,  unless  it  is  intended  to 
add  J^  pint  of  wine  to  the  stock  jelly  produced. 


78 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


For  jellies  to  serve  ordinarily  at  dinner  peur 
them  iu  bright  pans  an  inch  or  more  in  depth, 
and  when  set  cut  out  little  diamond-shaped 
blocks  and  serve  two  such  pieces  of  different 
color  in  the  same  saucer. 


395--Apricot  Ice. 

3  cupfuls  of  apricots  cut  in  pieces. 

1  cupful  of  sugar — 8  ounces. 

2  cupfuls  of  water. 

The  kernels  of  halt  the  apricots. 

8  whites  of  eggs. 

The  ripest  and  sweetest  apricots,  if  the  fresh 
fruit  bo  used,  should  be  kept  out,  one  cupful  to 
be  mixed  in  the  ice  when  finished. 

Stew  the  other  3  cupfuls  and  the  peeled  ker- 
nels in  the  water  and  sugar  for  a  few  minutes, 
rub  the  fruit  then  with  the  back  of  a  spoon, 
through  a  strainer  into  the  freezer  along  with  the 
syrup.  Freeze  like  ice  cream  and  when  it  is 
nearly  finished  whip  the  two  whites  to  a  firm 
froth,  mix  them  in  and  turn  the  freezer  rapidly  a 
short  time  longer.  Stir  in  the  out  apricots  just 
before  serving.  Canned  apricots  can  be  used  as 
well,  and  if  in  syrup  that  can  be  mixed  in  also. 


396-EcUhart's  Wedding:  Cake. 

The  recipe  was  presented  by  the  caterer  to  a 
Chicago  belle  whose  marriage  feast  he  prepared, 
It  has  traveled  an  immense  distance  since,  and 
come  to  light  again  in  the  heart  of  a  great  wilder- 
ness. 

3  pounds  of  sugar. 
1}^  pounds  of  butter. 
13  eggs. 

2  pounds  of  flour. 

8  tablespoonfuls  of  winSo 
Same  of  brandy. 
6  nutmegs  ground  or  grated. 
.5  pounds  of  raisins. 

4  pounds  of  currants. 

3  pounds  of  citron. 

Stone  the  raisins,  wash  and  dry  the  currants, 
cut  the  citron  small,  then  mix  all  three  together 
and  dust  them  with  a  cupful  of  flour. 

Mix  the  flrst  four  ingredients  together  the  same 
as  if  for  pound  cake,  add  the  liquors,  nutmeg, 
and  then  the  fruit. 

Line  the  mold  with  buttered  paper,  and  wrap 
another  paper  around  the  outside  and  tie  it  with 
twine.     Bake  the  cake  about  three  hours. 


397— Iced   Tea. 

To  have  it  perfect  and  without  the  least  trace 
of  bitter,  put  tea  in  cold  water  hours  before  it  is 
to  be  used ;  the  delicate  flavor  of  the  tea  and 
abundant  strength  will  be  extracted,  and  there 
will  not  be  a  trace  of  the  tannic  acid,  which  ren- 
ders tea  so  often  disagreeable  and  undrinkable. 
You  need  not  use  more  than  the  usual  quantity 


of  tea.    Put  broken  ice  in  it  a  few  minutes  be- 
fore serving. 

Iced  tea  can  be  served  with  a  light  froth,  like 
that  of  ale,  on  top,  if  shaken  with  the  ice  in  it  in 
two  glasses  placed  one  over  the  other — the  brims 


MENU    NO.    XXXIX.— SUPPER. 


398— Oyster   Slew— Milk  Stew, 

Cook  the  oysters  and  the  milk  in  separate 
saucepans.  Dip  the  oysters  from  the  saucepan 
into  the  bowl  they  are  to  be  served  in,  add  a 
ladleful  of  milk  and  a  small  piece  of  fresh  but- 
ter. Serve  crackers,  butter  and  shred  cabbage 
separately  with  the  stew. 


Oysters  do  not  always  curdle  the  milk  when 
boiled  in  it,  but  there  is  always  a  danger  that 
they  may,  so  the  rule  is  not  to  run  any  risk.  Be- 
sides, to  cook  the  oysters  in  the  milk,  although 
good  for  flavor,  always  makes  a  dingy  lookmg 
stew,  with  a  scum  on  top.  To  obtain  the  beat 
quality  and  appearanee,  boil  some  oyster  liquor 
separately  and  keen  It  ready  for  orders.  As  it 
reaches  boiling  point  the  scum  on  top  can  be 
skimmed  off,  and  after  that  pour  it  through  a 
fine  strainer  into  a  clean  saucepan,  and  you  have 
the  oyster  essence  clear  and  ready  for  use  with- 
out detriment  to  the  appearances. 


It  is  with  cooking  an  oyster  as  with  cooking  an 
egg.  It  may  be  either  soft  boiled  or  hard  boiled, 
only  there  Is  the  difference  that  an  oyster  boiled 
hard  is  spoiled.  To  cook  oysters  ,for  stews  set 
some  of  the  liquor  that  has  been  boiled  as  above 
mentioned,  on  iu  a  little  saucepan  and  drop  iu 
the  oysters  with  a  fork.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
pepper,  shake  them  back  and  forth  while  heating 
and  as  soon  as  the  liquor  fairly  boils  they  are 
done.     Time  about  three  minutes   for  one  stew. 


399— Plain  Stew. 
The  oysters  cooked  as    above  with    the  liquor 
only  served  with  them,  and  no  milk. 


400— Dry  Stew— Restaurant   Order. 

The  same  as  plain  stew  without  the  liquor,  or 
with  only  a  spoonful. 


401— Boston  Fancy  Stew  —  Restaurant  Order. 

The  milk  stew  with  a  slice  of  buttered  toast 
floating  in  it  and  the  oysters  on  the  toast.  Use 
a  large,  shallow  bowl,  put  the  square  of  toast  in 
it  flrst,  drain  the  liquor  of  the  stew  into  it  and 
place  the  oysters  neatly. 


40a— Fried  Smelts. 

Draw  the  fish  through  the  gills  without  open- 
ing them  and  wipe  them  clean.  Dip  in  beaten 
egg  and  cracker  meak     Be  careful  not  to  rub  off 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


79 


the  breading,  as  it  will  not  stick  a  second  time, 
and  there  is  a  bad  appearance  when  fried.  Fry 
a  few  at  a  time  in  a  pan  of  hot  lard.  They  should 
be  done  and  of  a  handsome  light  brown  color  m 
4  minutes. 


403— Potato  Bouleltes  in  Cream. 

Scoop  out  a  cupful  of  potato  balls  the  size  of 
cherries  (See  JNo.  283),  steam  or  boil  them,  and 
when  just  done  and  before  they  break  pour  over 
them  some  hot  cream  sauce,  or  thickened  milk 
with  salt  and  butter  in  it. 


404— Teal  Ducks,  Broiled. 

There  are  blue-wing  and  green-wing  teal, 
nearly  alike,  though  the  blue-wing  seems  to  be 
preferred ;  and  the  butter-ball  duck  comes  next 
in  quality  and  size. 

Having  picked  and  singed  them,  split  them 
down  the  back  and  draw  them.  Cut  off  neck 
and  feet.  Wash  them  off  quickly  in  cold  water 
and  wipe  dry,  and  flatten  them  slightly  to  broil- 
ing shape  with  a  tap  of  the  cleaver.  Lay  the 
duck  on  a  plate,  dredge  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
brush  over  both  sides  with  butter.  Broil  on  the 
gridiron  over  clear  coals,  the  inside  first,  about 
15  minutes.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  with  a  border 
of  small  pieces  of  toast  or  chip  potatoes,  and 
■with  currant  jelly  or  a  quartered  lemon,  or  with 
the  following  sauce. 


iOB—Orause  Sauce  for  Game. 

1  orange. 

1  cupful  ot  brown  sauce. 

J^  cupful  of  claret. 

A  little  cayenne. 

Shave  off  very  thinly  the  yellow  rind  of  about 
a  quarter  of  the  orange  and  boil  it  in  the  brown 
sauce  about  10  minutes.  Cut  half  the  orange 
into  small  slices  and  remove  the  pith  and  seeds. 

iStrain  the  brown  sauce  from  the  peel,  throw 
into  it  the  orange  slices,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of 
the  remaining  half,  add  the  claret  and  cayenne, 
let  boil  up  and  skim  off  the  film  that  will  rise. 

If  there  is  no  brown  sauce  on  hand  soup  stock 
can  be  used  and  thickened  with  a  spoonful  of 
flour  worked  in  a  small  piece  of  soft  butter. 
Pour  the  sauce  under  the  ducks  in  the  dish  and 
dispose  the  juice  of  orange  around  them. 


406— Fried  Hominy  Cakes. 

1  large  cupful  of  cooked  coarse  hominy. 
1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 
1  egg- 
Take  cold  hominy   that   has  been  well  cooked 
and  IS  ary  (see  No.  333)  and  pouud  it  with  a  po- 
tato masher  to  make  it  adhesive,  mix  in  the  flour 
and  egg.     If  not  already  seasoned  it  will  require 
salt  and  a  little  butter.      Make  it  out  in  flat  bis- 
cuit shapes  with  floured  hands  and  fry  brown  in 
a  frying-pan. 


407  -Strins  Beans,  French  Way. 

Drain  away  the  water  from  a  can  of  string 
beans,  put  them  into  a  small  sauce-pan  and  shake 
them  over  the  fire,  without  water,  until  they  are 
quite  hot  Put  in  a  piece  of  fresh  butter,  the 
size  of  an  egg,  salt,  pepper  and  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon,  or  a  spoonful  of  vinegar.  When  the 
butter  has  melted  and  become  hot  they  are  ready 
to  serve. 


408— Chicken  Salad. 

Pick  the  meat  from  a  boiled  fowl  and  cut  it 
into  very  small  dice.  Cut  likewise  about  the 
same  quanitity  of  celery  not  quite  so  small  and 
put  them  into  separate  bowls.  Season  both  with 
salt  and  white  pepper,  and  a  few  tablespoonfuls 
of  olive  oil  and  the  same  amount  of  vinegar. 
Stir  to  mix  thoroughly.  When  to  be  served  heap 
the  chicken  in  the  middle  of  a  flat  dish  or  dishes, 
place  the  celery  around  it  as  a  border,  and  spread 
over  th"^  chicken  a  coating  of  thick  mayonaise. 
Garnish  with  quartered  hard-boiled  eggs.  In 
the  best  hotels  there  is  a  perpetual  change  in  the 
salads  and  ways  of  placing  them  in  the  dishes. 
The  celery  and  chicken  may  be  mixed  together, 
and,  again,  be  mixed  with  the  dressing,  made 
thin  as  cream  for  the  purpose,  but  part  left  thick 
for  the  top  covering.  The  chicken  should  always 
be  out,  if  possible,  and  not  chopped. 

409— Mock   Mayonaise. 

}4  cupful  of  thick  cream  sauce  or  butter  sauce, 
cold. 

Half  as  much  olive  oil 

Same  of  vinegar. 

legg. 

Salt,  made  mustard,  sugar,  cayenne,  a  small 
allowance  of  each. 

Any  white  sauce  that  may  have  been  made 
witu  flour  for  other  articles  will  answer  if  thick 
enough  and  cold.  Drop  in  the  egg  and  stir  it 
around  rapidly ;  add  a  tablespoonful  of  oil,  then 
one  of  vinegar,  and  keep  stirring  and  adding  by 
spoonfuls  till  all  is  mixed  in,  then  add  the  sea- 
sonings. 

This  dressing  will  be  thick  enough  to  coat 
over  a  salad.  It  is  best  to  set  the  pan  in  ice 
water  while  stiring,  as  it  thicliens  sooner  if  quite 
cold. 

410— Apple  Shortcake. 

Make  a  flaky  short  puff  paste  of  medium  rich- 
ness by  the  method  described  for  puff  paste. 
No.  .5J,  using 

1  cupful  of  butter  or  lard— 6  ounces. 

3  rounded  cupfuls  flour — 9  ounces. 

J,^  cupful  of  ice  water. 

When  the  paste  has  been  rolled  and  folded  six 
times  cover  two  jellycake  pans  with  it,  trim 
around  and  bake  them  plain.  When  done  spread 
a  thick  layer  of  apple  cream  on  one,  place  tlie 
other  on  top,  and  for  a  finish  wet  half  a  cupful  oi 


80 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


powdered  sugar  with  two  spoonfuls  of  water; 
spread  this  wet  sugar  over  the  surface  and  let  it 
drv. 


411  — Apple  Cream. 

2  cupfuls  of  grated  apples. 

1  small  cupful  of  sugar. 
Butter  size  of  a  walnut 

2  tableapoonf  uls  of  water, 
legs- 

Orange  or  lemon  peel  for  flavor. 

Either  grate  apples  on  a  tin  grater  or  finely 
mince  them;  put  the  specified  quantity  into  a 
saucepan  with  all  the  other  ingredients  and  stir 
them  over  the  fire  about  ten  minutes. 


413— Grapes  Glazed  with  Susar. 

Divide  some  bunches  of  grapes  into  small 
clusters. 

Put  into  a  deep  saucepan, 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

A  large  half  cupful  of  water. 

3^  teaepoonful  of  cream  lartar. 

Stir  to  dissolve  the  sugar,  then  set  it  on  to 
boil,  as  if  for  candy. 

When  the  syrup  has  boiled  10  minutes  try  a 
drop  in  cold  water.  When  it  sets  so  that  it  is 
hard  to  press  between  finger  and  thumb  and  the 
edges  of  drops  are  hard  and  brittle  it  is  ready. 

Take  it  from  the  fire,  dip  the  clusters  of  grapes 
in  (without  ever  stirring  tne  candy)  and  lay  them 
on  dishes  slightly  greased  to  dry.  Should  the 
candy  become  set  in  the  kettle  it  may  have  a 
spoonful  or  two  of  water  added  and  be  made  hot 
again. 

MENU  XL— BANQUET. 


413— Oysters  on  tile  Balr  Shell. 

The  small,  but  fat  and  shapely  oysters  are 
chosen  for  serving  in  the  shell,  preliminary  to  a 
dmner,  known  at  present  by  the  names  of  Blue 
Points,  Shrewsburys,  Morris  Elvers  and  others. 
Brush  them  clean  in  cold  water  before  opening. 
Place  four,  five  or  six  in  each  small  plate,  in 
whichever  shell  happens  to  be  the  best  shaped 
for  holding  them,  and  a  quarter  of  a  lemon  in 
the  center.  For  sale  by  the  dozen,  the  large 
oysters  are  naturally  preferred. 

As  to  the  grades  of  oysters  it  may  be  useful  to 
parties  in  business  to  state  that  "Counts"  or  New 
York  counts  are  the  largest  oysters  sold  by  count 
and  not  by  the  gallon.  "Culls"  are  the  largest  "se- 
lects. "  "Selects"  are  the  ordinarily  large  oysters 
sold  by  gallon  or  can.  "Straights"  are  sunposed 
to  De  of  all  sizes  unsorted.  "Standards"  are 
small  oysters,  and  there  is  a  grade  below  known 
as  "common."  Tliese  quotations — as  the  dealers 
in  perishable  articles  say — are  subject  to  altera- 
tion at  any  time.  A  can  that  will  hold  only  three 
dozen  of  the  largest  oysters  will  hold  eight  dozen 


of  the  small  grade,  which  makes  it  possible  for 
retailers  of  a  certain  class  to  sell  by  the  dozen  at 
apparently  a  very  low  price. 


414-Cold  Slaw. 
Shred  tender  white  cabbage  extremely  fine, 
put  it  into  a  bowl,  sprinkle  with  salt,  mince  half 
a  pod  of  red  pepper  very  small  and  add  that  and 
vinegar  enough  to  moisten.  Set  on  the  table  in 
pickle  dishes  or  in  individual  deep  scollops. 


415— Olives. 

Are  in  request  only  in  one  way,  that  is  raw,  in 
pickle  dishes  on  the  table,  where  they  should 
have  broken  ice  strewn  upon  them.  They  are 
used  to  some  extent  in  the  sauces  of  entrees  and 
for  ornamenting  salads,  but  seldom  eaten  other- 
wise than  as  a  cold  relish.  A  small  sort  can  be 
bought  by  the  keg  cheaper  for  secondary  pur- 
poses^ but  Spanish  olives  in  bottles  for  the  table. 


416-Winter  Salad. 

1  cupful  of  red  pickled  cabbage. 

1  cupful  of  cooked  salsify,  cut  small. 

1  cupful  of  leaves  of  water  cress. 

1  pickled  (salt  or  soused)  herring. 

Wash  the  herring,  and  without  cooking  it,  pick 
the  meat  from  the  bones  and  cut  it  small,  the 
cabbage  and  salsify  likewise,  mix  all  together, 
season  with  oil  and  vinegar,  pepper  sauce,  and 
perhaps  a  little  salt.  The  red  cabbage  is  for 
making  this  a  dish  of  mixed  colors;  when  not  at 
hand  some  substitute,  such  as  radishes  or  beets, 
can  be  used.  Set  it  in  pickle  dishes  on  the 
table. 


417— Potage  a  la  ReiDe. 

2  quarts  of  chicken  broth. 

3  solid  cupfuls  of  chicken  meat. 
1  cupful  of  boiled  rice. 

1  pint  of  cream  or  milk. 


This  is  a  puree  soup  like  the  potato,  cream  and 
puree  of  beans,  but  thickened,  instead,  with  the 
paste  or  puree  of  pounded  chicken  and  rice. 

Procure  a  pound,  or  3  cupfuls  of  clear  chicken 
meat  tender  enough  to  mash  to  a  paste,  either 
from  3  or  3  young  chickens  i-oasted,  or  1  large 
fowl  boiled.  Mince  it  fine,  pound  it  smooth,  add 
the  rice  to  it  while  poundins,  pour  in  some  of  the 
broth  to  moisten  it,  then  rub  it  through  a  per- 
forated tin  gravy  strainer  or  a  seive. . 

The  chicken  (or  veal)  broth  should  have  a 
small  bunch  of  parsley,  1  stalk  of  celery,  a  small 
piece  of  onion  and  piece  of  broken  nutmeg  boiled 
in  it,  and  if  obtainable  a  sprig  of  green  thyme, 
and  after  that  be  strained.  Mix  it  boiling  hot 
with  the  puree  of  chicken  and  rice;  set  on  bricks 
or  at  the  back  of  the  stove  to  keep  hot  without 
boiling,  and  boil  the  cream  separately  and  pour 
It  in  at  last.    Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


81 


41S— Consomme  JulieuBe. 

2  quarts  of  soup  stock. 

1  white  turuip. 

A  piece  of  yellow  ruta  baga  turnip. 

1  carrot 

1  onion. 

1  head  of  celery. 

Make  the  soup  stock  clear  by  letting  it  settle  in 
a  jar  or  pail  after  the  first  straining  from  the 
boiler,  removing  the  fat,  and  then,  without  dis- 
turbing the  sediment,  pouring  it  through  a  nap- 
kin set  in  a  colander  or  through  a  jelly  bag.  The 
size  and  quantity  of  the  vegetables  is  not  a  mat- 
ter of  much  consequence,  but  too  little  is  better 
than  too  much,  as  they  consume  time  in  the 
shredding.  Cut  them  first  into  very  thin  slices, 
then  into  shreds  an  inch  or  two  long  and  as  thin 
as  straws.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  but- 
ter size  of  an  egg  and  half  as  much  sugar,  sim- 
mer in  the  butter  with  the  steam  shut  in  until 
they  begin  to  brown  on  the  bottom,  then  pour  in 
the  stock  and  boil  about  half  an  hour.  Skim 
while  boiling.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  If 
not  of  a  light  brown  color  add  a  spoonful  of 
burnt  sugar  caramel.  It  is  a  clear  soup,  but  it 
does  no  harm  to  give  body  to  it  with  a  spoonful 
of  starch  wetted  with  broth. 


419— Baked  Stitr^feoii. 

As  only  two  or  three  ounces  of  fish  is  generally 
served  to  each  person  on  a  small  plate,  it  is  easy 
to  calculate  the  amount  to  be  provided,  allowing 
something  like  one-third  for  shrinkage  in  cook- 
ing. 

When  it  is  a  large  fish  it  is  better  for  this  way 
of  cooking  to  have  two  broad  and  not  very  thick 
cuts  across  the  fish  than  to  have  one  solid  sec- 
tion, that  each  person  may  receive  a  like  portion 
of  the  browned  surface — in  short,  for  con- 
venience of  serving. 

Let  the  fish  lie  in  cold  salted  water  a  while  be- 
fore cooking.  Put  it  on  in  boiling  water  or 
broth  that  has  an  onion  and  a  quarter  cupful  of 
vinegar  in  it,  boil  gently  at  the  side  of  the  range 
lor  about  forty-five  minutes.  Take  it  up  with- 
out breaking,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  sift 
on  all  the  cracker  meal  or  crushed  bread  crumbs 
that  will  stick,  put  it  in  a  pan  with  enough  of  the 
liquor  it  was  boiled  in  to  keep  the  pan  from 
burning,  and  when  the  surface  has  become  hot 
enough  to  set  the  breading  so  that  it  will  not 
wash  off,  basle  with  butter  and  let  it  brown. 
Serve  with  anchovy  sauce  and  a  small  portion  of 
potato  in  some  form  in  the  same  plate. 
430— -inchovy  Sauce. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

Same  weight  of  batter. 

1  cupful  of  liquor  the  fish  was  boiled  In. 

2  tablespoonf  uls  essence  of  anchovies. 
1  of  lemon  juice. 

A  pinch  of  cayenne. 

Warm  the  butter  and  flour,  stir  them  together 
in  a  frying-pan  and  bakeUgUt  brown  in  the  oven. 


Pour  in  the  liquor,  boil  up,  strain,  add  the  other 
ingredients.  When  there  is  brown  sauce  on 
hand  use  that  instead,  with  the  essence,  etc., 
added. 


431— Potato  CruUs. 

Pare  good,  smooth  potatoes  raw.  Cut  them 
into  thick  slices,  as  many  as  there  will  be  plates 
of  fish.  Cut  out  the  centers  with  an  apple  corer, 
making  rings.  Take  a  small  penknife  and  be- 
gin inside  and  cut  the  slice  all  around  into  a  coil 
or  string  as  thin  as  may  be  without  breaking 
through  till  the  knife  comes  out  at  the  outer 
edge.  Fry  the  cruUs  in  hot  lard,  light  colored. 
Drain,  and  sprinkle  with  fine  salt. 


433- Boiled  Corned  Tonsfue,  Caper  Sauce. 

Fresh  tongues  put  in  a  jar  and  covered  with 
the  brine  or  pickle  No.  100,  will  be  of  a  good 
pink  color  and  nicely  waited  m  from  a  week  to 
ten  days. 

Wash  off  the  corned  tongue  and  boil  it  three 
hours.  Plunge  it  in  cold  water  and  peel  off  the 
skm  then  set  it  in  a  hot  place.  In  carving  cut 
slantingly  to  make  long  slices  that  will  not  run 
out  too  small  at  the  thin  end.  Serve  with  caper 
sauce,  which  is  butter  sauce  with  a  little  of  the 
caper  vinegar  mixed  in  and  the  capers — about  a 
teaspoonful — dashed  on  top  of  the  sauce  on  the 
meat. 


483— Mashed  Parsnips. 

Pare  and  cut  them  small,  steam  an  hour  or 
more,  mash  and  season  the  same  as  potatoes  ex- 
cept that  a  little  white  pepper  should  be  added, 
or  cayenne  or  a  finely  minced  piece  of  red  pep- 
per if  that  is  not  to  be  had.  Keep  hot  in  a  sauce- 
pan. Whatever  is  left  over  will  make  parsnip 
fritters,  which  are  a  favorite  dish  if  well  made. 
See  No.  125, 

434— The  Fillet  of  Beef. 

The  fillet,  otherwise  known  as  the  tenderloin, 
of  beef  is  the  long  band  of  meat  inside  of  the 
loin  that,  beginning  in  a  thin  point  at  the  last 
rib,  extends  the  whole  length  of  the  loin,  almost 
to  the  end.  The  very  tender,  lower  meaty  por- 
tion of  every  porter  house  steak  and  sirloin  steak 
is  a  slice  of  the  fillet.  When  cut  out  of  a  loin  of 
beef  entire,  it  weighs  from  3  to  5  pounds,  accord- 
ing to  the  size  of  the  beef  and  closeness  of  trim- 
ming. When,  after  being  divested  of  fat  and 
•kin,  the  thin  end  is  out  away  and  the  thick  end 
trimmed  and  rounded,  the  smooth  fillet,  ready 
for  roasting,  will  weigh  about  3  pounds,  all  solid 
lean— enough  for  from  fifteen  to  twenty  cuts 
after  cooking. 

While  the  fillet,  on  account  of  both  its  tender- 
ness and  its  symmetrical  shape  for  serving 
whole  has  been  favored  with  greater  attention  by 
the  decorative  cooks  than  any  other  piece  of 
meat  whatsoever,  it  should  be  remembered  that 
when   it   is    served    at   dinner  to  the    average 


82 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


American  as  honest  beef,  and  not  so  much  as  a 
tiling  of  beauty,  it  had  better  not  be  much  fixed 
up  and  diSRuised,  but  only  splendidly  plain 
roasted,  with  the  thick  end  rare,  when  it  is 
not  the  only  reliance  for  roast  beef;  but  there  ia 
another  cut  ready  for  those  who  are  dissatisfied, 
The  fillet,  as  an  entree  (a  dish  that  the  majority 
are  unkind  enough  to  regard  as  not  a  principal, 
^ut  an  unimportant  side  dish,',  can  be  larded 
^ith  fat  bacon,  flavored  with  vegetables,  herbs 
ind  spices,  and  steeped  in  olive  oil  and  lemon 
juice,  as  we  will  show  in  detail  further  on. 


435— Koast  Fillet  of  Beef,  with   Mnshroorns. 

A  fillet,  to  be  plainly  yet  skillfully  roasted,  to 
he  carved  in  the  kitchen  and  not  sent  to  table 
whole,  need  not  have  all  the  fat  removed,  only 
cut  down  thin.  It  must  bo  cut  off  the  top  side, 
however,  which  means  the  side  that  had  tbe 
kidney  fat  upon  it,  and  a  ribbon-like  strip  of  the 
skin  covering  taken  off  the  meat  tbe  whole  length 
down,  as  otherwise  it  will  draw  up  in 
the  oven.  Make  the  pan  hot  first  and 
put  into  it  all  tbe  pieces  of  meat  and  a  little  of 
the  fat  that  has  been  trimmed  off  the  fillet,  and 
let  them  stew  and  bake  in  tue  pan  with  a  pint  of 
water  and  a  little  salt  to  make  a  glaze  or  gravy 
OQ  the  bottom  for  the  fillet  to  be  rolled  in  at  last. 
An  hour  after,  or  when  the  water  is  nearly  all 
gone  out  of  the  pan,  make  the  oven  hotter  and 
put  the  fillet  in  and  roast  off  quickly. 

It  may  be  done  enough  with  the  thickest  part 
medium  rare  in  a  hot  oven  in  half  an  hour  or 
three-quarters,  and  is  sure  to  be  done  through 
in  an  hour.  Never  stick  a  fork  in  it,  but  roll  it 
over  in  the  pan  by  means  of  a  broad  fork  and 
spoon  several  times,  which  will  make  it  shine 
with  the  lig  t  brown  glaze,  and  make  it  cut  full 
of  juice  when  done. 

Lift  out  the  roast  meat,  then  the  fat  pieces 
from  the  pan,  and  pour  off  the  grease,  which 
will  be  clear  if  the  water  has  been  allowed  to 
boil  away;  put  in  a  pint  of  soup  stock  and  let 
bod  up  in  the  range.  Thicken  either  with  fiour 
mixed  in  soft  butter  or  with  flour  and  water ; 
strain  into  a  saucepan.  Boil  it  on  top  of  the 
range,  and  put  in  some  of  the  liquor  from  a  can 
of  mushrooms,  cold  That  will  cause  fat  and 
scnm  to  rise.  Skim  off,  put  in  mushrooms,  and 
let  boil  again.  Serve  the  meat  with  the  natural 
gravy  on  the  slices,  and  mushrooms  in  sauce 
around. 


436— Oyster  Plant  Croquettes. 

Pare  the  salsify  or  oyster  plant  thinly,  and 
either  boil  or  steam  quite  tender,  which  may  take 
an  hour  and  a  half  in  the  tall,  but  a  shorter 
time  after  frost,  when  this  vegetable  is  at  its 
best  Cook  the  roots  whole,  or  only  cut  across, 
mash  plain  when  done,  and  take — 

1  cupful  of  dry  mashed  salsify. 

Butter,  size  of  a  walnut. 


1  teaspoonf  ul  of  mixed  salt  and  pepper. 

Yolk  of  egg. 

1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 

Mix  well  by  pounding  together,  make  up  in 
little  balls,  with  plenty  of  flour  on  the  haud8, 
and  fry  them  yellow  in  hot  lard. 


437— Koast  Turkey  Stufted  with  Chestnuts. 

Singe  and  draw  a  young  turkey.  Cut  off  the 
neck  about  midway,  and  when  the  crop  has  been 
taken  out,  without  cutting  the  skin  of  the  breast,  - 
shorten  the  neckbone  still  more  and  pull  the 
skin  over  the  end  and  tie  it.  When  the  turkey 
has  been  washed  and  prepared  make  the  follow- 
ing stuffing: 

3  cupfuls  of  pork  sausage  meat 

1  pressed  cupful  of  bread  crumbs. 

40  or  50  of  the  large  foreign  chestnuts. 

Mix  the  bread  crumbs  in  the  sausage  meat 
dry,  and  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper. 

Boil  the  chestnuts  3^3  hour,  peel  them,  scrape 
off  the  furry  inside  skin,  mix  them  with  the 
sausage  and  break  and  stuff  the  turkey  with  it. 

Roast  according  to  size  from  1}^  to  2V^  hours. 
If  a  large  turkey  that  must  stay  in  a  long  time, 
keep  a  sheet  of  greased  paper  over  it  in  the  oven 
to  prevent  bhstering  the  surface. 

438— Chestnut  Sauce  for  Koast  Turkey. 

Boil  chestnuts  tender,  peel,  cut  them  in  halves 
and  mix  them  in  the  brown  sauce  made  in  the 
turkey  pan. 

439-Bakecl  Winter  Squash. 

Bake  it  in  pieces  without  paring.  Those  with 
the  hardest  shell  are  oftenest  tbe  best  eating,  but 
difficult  to  divide  neatly.  The  common  expedient 
ia  to  put  a  whole  squash  in  a  steamer,  after  wash- 
ing off  the  outside,  and  let  it  stay  there  half  an 
hour.  That  softens  the  shell  sufficiently,  and  it 
can  be  cut  in  strips  about  the  width  of  two  fingers. 
Place  these  in  a  baking  pan,  brush  them  with  a 
brush  dipped  in  butter  and  sprinkled  with  a  little 
salt  and  a  little  sugar.  BaJie  without  burning, 
with  greased  paper,  if  necessary. 

430— Larded  Sweethreati-s. 

Having  boiled  the  sweetbreads  thirty  to  sixty 
minutes,  according  to  size,  and  allowed  them  to 
get  quite  cold,  according  to  directions  at  No.  363. 
Cut  them  for  this  dish  in  two,  or  possibly  three 
slices  if  large,  the  broad  way,  and  lard  them — 
that  is,  draw  them  full  of  little  strips  of  fat  ba- 
con. These  strips  should  be  scarcely  thicker 
than  a  pencil  and  not  so  long  as  the  little  finger. 
There  are  larding  needles  for  the  purpose,  cost- 
ing but  a  dime  or  two,  that  have  the  ends  split 
open  for  the  bacon  to  he  inserted  and  so  drawn 
through  the  meat^  The  easy  way  is  to  take  an- 
other large  needle  of  any  kind,  catch  up  the  end 
of  one  of  these  strips  of  bacon  on  the  point  and 
draw  it  by  that  means  into  the  open  end  of  the 
larding  needle,  and  then  with  the  larding  needle 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


83 


into  the  meat,  the  ends  showing  on  each  side  of 
the  shoe. 

When  the  sliced  sweetbreads  are  drawn 
full  of  strips  of  hacon  place  them  close 
together  in  a  baking-pan,  mince  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  onions  and  sprinkle  over  them,  and 
perhaps  a  little  green  herbs,  if  any 
at  hand,  pour  in  equal  parts  of  strong  soup 
stock  (made  strong  by  boiling  down  on  the 
range)  and  brown  meat  gravy,  but  only  enough 
altogether  to  come  up  level  with  the  sweet- 
breads, then  bake  them  until  brown  on  top. 
Baste  them  with  the  sauce  from  the  corner  of 
the  pan  and  let  bake  until  that  is  dried  on  them. 
Then  take  them  up  on  to  a  dish  or  dishes.  Warm 
some  olives  in  gravy  and  cut  a  lemon  in  small 
pieces,  and  dish  them  up  with  the  gravy  around 
the  sweetbreads. 


431— Stewed  liamb,  with  Tomatoes. 

2  pounds  of  breast  of  lamb. 

I  cupful  mixed  vegetables,  cut  in  dice. 

1  cupful  of  tomatoes. 

1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Saw  the  breast  or  brisket  of  lamb  lengthwise 
through  the  bones ;  then  divide  in  pieces,  wash, 
and  put  it  on  to  stew  in  water  or  broth  enough 
just  to  cover;  cut  carrots,  turnips  and  onions 
{enough  xo  fill  a  cup)  in  squares,  and  boil  them 
in  water  separately;  pour  off  the  water  when 
they  are  half  done  and  put  them  in  the  stew,  and 
also  the  tomatoes.  Boil  half  an  hour  longer, 
thicken  slightly  if  necessary,  season,  and  at  last 
throw  in  the  parsley. 

The  above  makes  a  very  pretty  dish.  In  dish- 
ing up  take  up  two  pieces  of  the  meat  for  each 
dish  and  place  them  square  in  the  middle  of  an 
individual  flat  platter,  and  dish  the  vegetables 
and  sauce  in  order  at  each  end. 


43S— Spaghetti  and  Clieese— Romaine. 

Spaghetti  is  macaroni  in  another  form,  a  solid 
cord  instead  of  a  tube. 
i  ounces  of  spaghetti — 2  cupfuls  when  broken. 
1  cupful  of  minced  cheese — 3  ounces. 

1  cupful  of  milk. 
Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

2  yolks  of  eggs. 

This  dish  ought  to  be  quite  yellow.  Throw  the 
spaghetti  into  water  that  is  already  boiling,  and 
salted.  After  cookiug  20  minutes  drain  it  dry, 
and  put  it  into  the  buttered  dish  it  is  to  be  baked 
in. 

Put  the  cheese  and  butter  and  half  the  milk 
into  a  saucepan  and  stir  them  over  the  fire  till 
the  cheese  is  nearly  melted,  mix  the  yolus  with 
the  rest  of  the  milk,  pour  that  into  the  saucepan, 
then  add  the  whole  to  the  spaghetti  in  the  pan, 
and  bake  it  a  yellow  brown  in  as  short  a  time  as 
possible.  It  loses  its  richness  if  cooked  too 
long,  through  the  toughenin;;  of  the  olieese. 


433— Russian    Pnnch. 

a  cupfuls  of  tea,  made  as  for  drinking. 
1  cupful  of  water. 

1  cupful  of  port  wine. 
3^  cupful  of  brandy. 

3  small  cupfuls  of  sugar., 

2  lemons — ripe  and  thin  skinned. 

Cut  the  lemons  without  grating  or  squeezing, 
in  small  slices  into  a  bowl,  make  a  boiling  syrup 
of  the  sugar  and  water  and  pour  over  them  and 
let  stand  until  cold.  Then  put  in  the  tea  and 
hquors  and  strain  the  punch  into  a  freezer  and 
freeze  as  hard  as  the  spirit  in  it  will  allow.  Save 
the  lemon  slices  and  mix  them  in  at  the  finish. 


434— Roast  Partridgre  witli  Cress. 

Cleanse  them  the  same  as  chickens  and  wipe 
di'y.  Bind  very  thin  bands  of  fat  bacon  on  the 
breasts,  and  roast  them  in  a  pan  in  the  oven  for 
about  20  or  .30  minutes.  Bemove  the  bacon,  roll 
them  in  the  pan  and  brown  the  surface  quickly. 
Serve  them  in  a  dish,  or  halves  in  individual 
dishes,  with  water  cress,  crisp  and  fresh,  but 
quite  free  from  water,  at  each  end. 


435— Dressed  Crab. 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  shell  and  claws,  cut 
the  solid  part  into  small  pieces,  dry  the  soft  part 
with  the  addition  of  a  spoonful  of  fine  bread 
crumbs,  mix  all  with  a  little  oil,  vinegar  and 
mustard.  Wash  and  dry  the  shells  and  serve 
the  meat  in  them,  placed  on  a  bed  of  something 
green — lettuce,  cress,  young  celery  plants  or 
parsley. 

436— Custard  Fritters  Glazed. 

A  sort  of  sliced  custard,  breaded  and  fried, 
very  rich  and  very  generally  liked,  made  of 

1  cupful  of  milk. 

2  tablespoonsfuls  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch. 
1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

3  yolks  of  eggs. 
Butter  size  of  a  walnut 
Flavoring.     Pinch  of  salt 

Boil  the  milk  with  the  sugar  in  it,  which  pre- 
vents burning.  Mix  the  starch  and  flour  in  a 
cup,  with  a  spoonful  of  cold  milk  extra,  and 
some  of  that  on  the  fire;  pour  in  when  the  milk 
boils  and  let  boil  thick.  Beat  in  the  butter  and 
yolks  and  take  it  off.  Flavor  with  lemon  or 
other  extract,  and  let  it  get  cold  like  mush,  in  a 
buttered  pan.  Cut  in  thick  slices  or  blocks,  roll 
in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  cracker  meal,  fry 
golden  yellow  in  hot  lard.  Pour  over  the  hot 
slices  when  they  are  served  a  thick,  transnarent 
glaze,  like  the  following: 


437-Rich  Sauce  lor  Fritters. 

1  cupful  of  water. 

J-^  cupful  of  sugar. 

1  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch, 


84 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


y^  cupful  of  ouraooa  or  rum. 

Mix  the  starch  in  the  sugar  dry,  boil  the  water 
and  stir  them  in.  Take  it  from  the  fire  and  add 
the  curacoa.  It  changes  to  a  pink  color.  Other 
flavormgs  can  be  used.  Have  it  thick  enough  to 
glaze  the  articles. 


438— liemon  Mince  Fatties. 

Koll  out  pie  paste  to  a  thm  sheet,  and  cut  out 
like  cookies  with  a  scallop-edge  cutter.  Line 
the  bottoms  of  patty  pans  or  gem  pans,  of  the 
right  size,  with  these,  half  fill  them  with  lemon 
mince  meat,  and  cover  with  another  of  the  cuts 
of  paste.  Tiie  bottom  piece  of  paste,  when  put 
in,  should  be  pressed  with  the  thumbs  up  the 
sides  of  the  pan,  to  spread  it  up  to  the  rim. 
Brush  the  tops  over  with  a  little  egg  and  water, 
dredge  sugar  on  top,  and  bake  the  patties  in  a 
slack  oven. 


439— Leniun  Mince  Meat. 

Has  no  meat  in  it,  but 
4  lemons. 

a  pounds  of  white  sugar. 
2  pounds  of  currants. 

1  pound  of  seedless  raisins. 

2  pounds  of  suet. 

1  ounce  of  mixed  ground  spices. 

}^  pint  of  brandy  and  port  wiuo  mixed. 

Use  lemons  that  are  ripe  and  thin-skinned,  not 
harsh  and  bitter.  Boil  them  in  a  quart  of  water 
till  the  water  is  half  boiled  away.  Then  squeeze 
the  juice  into  the  sugar,  throw  away  the  seeds, 
and  mince  the  lemon  rinds  and  pulp  small. 

Gut  or  chop  the  raisins,  mince  the  suet  fine, 
and  mix  all  the  ingredients  together.  Keep  in  a 
covered  jar. 

The  water  the  lemons  were  boiled  in  should  be 
added  to  the  mince. 


440— Rhubarb  Marmalade  for  Tarts. 
Rhubarb   flavored    with    oranges    and  boiled 
down  with  sugar. 
4  cupfuls  of  rhubarb  cut  very  small. 

2  cupfula  of  sugar. 

3  oranges — or  orange  peel  only. 

Grate  the  yellow  rind  of  the  oranges  into  the 
saucepan  and  then  cut  up  the  insides,  carefully 
excluding  the  seeds  and  white  pith.  Put  in  a 
spoonful  or  two  of  water  to  wet  the  bottom,  then 
the  sugar  and  rhubarb,  and  simmer  at  the  back 
of  the  rauge  with  a  lid  on  for  an  hour.  Keep  in 
a  jar.  Use  to  fill  tarts  or  spread  between  layers 
ef  cake. 


441— Frozen  Fie:  Puddintr. 

Figs  cut  small  and  mixed  in  caramel  ice  cream 
and  frozen  in  brick  molds  is  a  most  excellent 
combination — a  modified  tutti  frutti. 

1  quart  of  milk. 

8  yolks  of  eggs. 

14  ounces  of  sugar. 

1  pound  of  figa 

The  caramel  gives  the  flavor,  but  half  a  cup- 
ful of  curacoa  improves  it. 


Take  four  tablespoonfula  of  the  sugar  to 
make  caramel,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  or  fry 
mg-pan  over  the  fire  without  any  water,  and 
let  it  melt  ani3  become  a  medium  molasses 
color,  not  burnt,  however,  then  pour  in  half  a 
cupful  of  water,  and  let  boil  and  dissolve. 

Make  rich  boiled  custard  of  the  milk,  sugar 
and  yolks,  pour  the  caramel  into  it,  strain  into 
the  freezer,  and  freeze  as  usual.  Cut  the  figs 
small  as  raisins  and  mix  them  in.  Put  the  ice 
cream  into  Neapolitan  molds,  and  bed  them  in- 
ice  and  salt  for  two  hours.  See  Nos.  266  and 
267  for  details. 


443— Finger  Biscuits— X  iu  Kecipe, 

8  ounces  of  fine  granulated  sugar. 
4  egga. 

4  tablesDoonfuls  of  water. 

6  ounces  of  flour — a  heaping  cup. 

Separate  the  eggs,  the  whites  into  a  bowl,  the 
yolUa  into  the  mixing  pan.  Put  the  water  and 
sugar  in  with  the  yolks  and  beat  them  with  a 
bunch  of  wire  ten  minutes,  till  they  are  a  thick 
Ught  batter.  Have  the  flour  ready.  Whip  the 
whites  to  a  very  firm  froth,  then  mix  the  flour 
with  the  yolk  mixture  and  stir  the  whites  in  last 
Fill  a  stiff  paper  cornet  with  the  point  cut  off  (or 
a  lady  finger  sack  and  tube)  with  the  batter,  and 
press  out  finger  lengths  on  to  a  sheet  of  manilla 
paper.  Sift  powdered  sugar  over,  shake  off  the 
surplus  and  lay  the  sheet  on  a  baking  pan.  Bake 
about  six  minutes.  Dampen  the  paper  under 
side,  take  the  cakes  off  and  place  by  twos  to- 
gether. 

443— Ansel  Food,  or  White  Sponge  Cake. 

5  whites  of  eggs — or  6  if  small. 

.5  ounces  fine  granulated  sugar — }^  cup. 

2J^  ounces  flour— 1.<  cup. 

1  rounded  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla  or  lemon  extract 

Mix  the  cream  tartar  in  the  flour  by  sifting 
them  together.  Whip  the  whites  firm,  put  in 
the  sugar  and  beat  a  few  seconds,  add  the  fla- 
voring, then  stir  in  the  flour  lightly  without  beat- 
ing. Aa  soon  as  mixed  put  the  cake  in  the  ovea 
It  needs  careful  baking  like  a  meringue,  in  a 
slack  oven  and  should  stay  in  from  twenty  to 
thirty  miuutes.  A  small,  deep,  smooth  mold  is 
the  best  and  should  not  Ije  greased.  When  the 
cake  is  done  turn  it  upside  down  and  leave  it  to 
get  cold  in  the  mold  before  trying  to  take  it  out 

When  you  have  pure  cream  tartar  from  a  drug 
store  use  only  half  as  much  as  of  the  common 
leat  the  cake  taste  of  it 


444-Kich  Fruit  or  Wedding  Cabe. 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

1 "%  pounds  of  butter. 

10  eggs. 

V^/i  pounds  of  flour. 

Mix  the  above  like  polind  cake,  then  add: 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


85 


IJ^  pounds  of  seedlesa  raieius. 

13^  pounds  of  currants. 

1  pound  of  citron. 

8  ounces  of  almonds,  blanched. 

1  tablespoonful  of  mixed  ground  apices. 

Half  pint  of  brandy. 

1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind. 

Bake  in  molds  lined  with  buttered  paper. 
Takes  from  1  to  3  hours  according  to  depth. 
This  cake  cannot  be  cut  while  fresh  without 
crumbling,  but  becomes  moiater  and  firm  with  a 
few  days'  lieeping. 


445— Frosted  Grapes. 

Take  grapes  of  two  colors,  as  red  Tokays  and 
white  Muscadels  and  pull  the  bunches  apart  into 
clusters  of  three  or  four  grapes  each.  Prepare 
a  platter  with  the  sort  of  pulverized  sugar 
known  aa  fine  granulated,  and  make  it  warm. 
Whip  some  white  of  eggs  in  a  shallow  bowl, 
dip  the  grapes  in  it,  lay  them  on  the  sugar  and 
sift  more  sugar  on  top.  Lay  them  on  sieves  to 
dry. 

446— Brie  Cheese,  or  Fromaffe  de   Brie. 

Is  a  cream  cheese,  often  soft  when  cut,  and  of 
high  ilavor ;  is  round  and  shallow,  comes  in  a 
flat  box,  usually  weighs  four  jDounda,  and  retails 
at  SO  cents  per  pound.  The  cream  cheese  made 
by  the  recipe  No.  109  resembles  Brie  when  made 
large  enough  and  kept  until  ripe. 

447— Neufcliatel  Clieese. 

la  the  small  cheese,  weighing  about  four  ounces, 
done  up  in  tinfoil ;  sells  at  about  $1  per  dozen. 
The  sour  milk  cheese  made  by  the  recipe  110,  if 
made  with  a  proportion  of  cream  mixed  in,  and 
kept  some  time,  resembles  NeufchateL  This 
cheese  varies  in  character,  according  to  the  time 
it  is  kept,  from  the  mildness  of  sour  curd  when 
fresh  to  a  dry  mold  and  strong  flavor  when  aged. 
Some  who  will  condemn  it  in  one  state  will  be 
suited  with  another  sample  of  it.  The  foreign 
cheeses  bearing  these  designations  are  said  to  be 
made  with  proportions  of  goat's  milk,  or  have 
other  peculiarities. 

448— Roquelort  Cheese. 

A  dry  and  high-flavored  cheese,  of  the  common 
round  and  thick  shape ;  sells  at  about  the  same 
price  aa  Brie,  and  is  of  about  the  same  weight. 

These  three  are  the  oftenest  served  at  dinners 
where  something  less  common  than  Western 
cheese  is  desired.  The  hardest  water  crackers 
are  served  at  the  same  time. 


MENU    NO.   XLI.— BREAKFAST. 


449— .Inte-Breakfasl:  Oranees. 

When   an   orange   is   at  the   most  luscious 
stage  of  ripeness  it  must  seem  an  act  of  super- 


fluous care  to  serve  It  in  any  but  its  natural 
state,  particularly  at  the  morning  meal,  though 
there  are  well  known  ways  of  serving  it  sliced  in 
a  bowl  with  sugar  over,  as  a  sweet  salad,  and 
with  the  addition  of  a  liqueur,  and  later  it  has 
been  suggested  that  even  with  salad  oil,  lemon 
juice  and  cayenne  the  orange  is  delicious.  But 
while  the  preference  is  so  generally  for  keepiug 
the  natural  fruit  just  beyond  the  verge  of  the 
cook's  jurisdiction,  we  will  let  a  sprightly  writer 
— or  two  of  them — in  the  midst  of  the  groves  of 
Florida  discourse  upon  a  matter  of  which  we 
can  otlierwiae  know  nothing,  that  is  the  difficulty 
and  danger  there  is  in  eating  an  orange  with  its 
jacket  on.  • 

We  had  not  beard  of  any  written  rule  prescrib- 
iug  just  when  to  eat  an  orange,  and,  in  the  ab- 
sence of  any  time  card,  we  have  been  going  it 
wild,  on  the  restaurant  plan,  at  all  hours.  Now 
Sidney  Lanier  tells  us  how.     Hear  him: 

At  this  hour  in  the  morning,  in  Florida,  every- 
body is  eating  his  ante-breakfast  oranges  with  as 
much  vigor  as  if  he  saw  himself  growing  sud- 
denly wrinkled  and  flaccid,  like  the  gods  and 
goddesses  in  Wagner's  Rheingold,  when  they 
had,  in  their  agitation,  forgotten  to  eat  their 
daily  allowance  of  the  golden  fruit  which  grew 
in  Freya's  garden,  and  which  was  the  necessary 
condition  of  their  immortal  youth.  In  truth,  to 
eat  one's  orange  with  some  such  thought  as  this 
would  not  be  wholly  absurd. 

But  the  sight  of  dripping  flngers  reminds  one 
that  while  there  are  few  pleasanter  things  than 
the  eating  01  an  orange,  yet  it  is  also  in  the  order 
of  nature  that  difficulty  and  delight,  which  are 
essentially  birds  of  a  feather— should  fly  together, 
and  there  are,  therefore,  few  harder  things  than 
the  eating  of  an  orange  dry  fingered.  The  stick- 
ineaa  of  orange  juice  seems,  somehow,  at  once  one 
of  the  most  unavoidable  and  most  disagreeable 
of  all  the  earthly  bads  that  hang  by  the  goods ; 
and  we  can  never  help  regretting  that  neither 
the  author  of  "Problems  of  Life  and  Mmd"  nor 
the  author  of  "Kocks  Ahead"  has  thought  to  treat 
the  question,  "How  to  eat  an  orange."  Yet  it 
can  be  done  with  great  daintiness  if  the  proper 
appliances  are  at  hand.  By  appliances  I  mean  a 
lady.  It  is  notorious  that  women  can  manage  an 
orange  with  their  delicately  tactile  fingers  to  a 
marvel.  There  is  a  tradition  in  Jackson- 
ville of  one  who,  with  kid  gloves  on 
her  hands,  kept  the  same  wholly  unspotted 
during  the  entire  process  of  peeling,  dividing 
and  eating.  However  that  may  be,  it  is  certainly 
an  seathetio  delight  to  see  ten  white  fingers  deftly 
coaxing  apart  the  juicy  orange  aeotors.  Indeed, 
that  is  apples  of  gold  in  pictures  of  silver.  It 
has  been  suggested  that  the  reason  of  this  supe- 
rior skill  is  longer  experience ;  woman,  though 
younger  than  man,  commenced  to  handle  fruit 
sooner.  But  it  is  a  suggestion  that  I  make  a 
point  of  loudly  and  ostentatiously  scorning ;  for, 
as  has  been  said,  the  solution  of  the  problem  of 


86 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


"How  to  eat  an  orange,"  depends  on  being  on 
good  terms  with  woman. 

"First  get  your  orange;  and  you  will  at  least 
produce  an  implication  of  your  connoisseuraliip 
m  the  mind  of  the  dealer,  if,  in  doing  so,  you 
ask  for  Indian  Iliver  oranges,  which  many  per- 
sons hold  to  be  the  tropic  fruit.  Then  get  your 
sister,  or  any  available  womankind — another 
man's  sister  might  do — to  peel  your  orange; 
divide  it  into  sectors,  and  hand  you  these,  each 
lying  on  its  detached  arc  of  peel  as  on  a  small 
salver.  The  rest,  as  the  old  play  says,  can  be 
done  without  book."    *    *    * 

"It  may  be  all  very  well  for  Growly  to  have 
Mrs.  G.  peel  his  orange,  leaving  him  only  the 
arduous  duty  of  eating  it;  but  no  'knightly  lover' 
would  stand  by,  after  gathering  hia  sweetheart's 
roses,  and  permit  her  to  peel  the  breakfast 
oranges,  however  deftly.  Oh,  no!  if  his  'Dearie' 
was  a  little  lale,  which  she  might  sometimes  be, 
you  know,  she  would  find  the  oranges  peeled  in 
a  way  which  will  admit  of  her  handliog  them 
with  or  without  gloves.  The  'knightly  lover' 
finds  a  fresh  orange,  with  a  thin  brown  rind, 
carefully  cuts  the  rind  without  abrading  the 
inner  skin,  cutting  deftly  around  the  periphery, 
then  taking  a  teaspoon  passes  it  under  the  rind, 
then  gently  turn  it  wrong  side  out,  as  it  were, 
now  outs  the  orange  diagonally  across,  passing 
to  his  audience,  who  most  surely  will  give  him 
en  encore. " 

450— Fried  Chicken. 

Take  young  chickens  and  cut  them  into  joints. 
If  wanted  to  be  extremely  neat,  take  only  four 
joints  of  each  one,  cutting  oS  the  legs  at  the  hip 
joints,  getting  all  the  meat  that  belongs  with  a 
broad,  flat  cut  that  leaves  the  carcass  bare,  then 
chop  the  breast  part  from  the  back,  and  divide 
the  breast  in  two,  each  piece  having  the  lirat 
wing  joint  attached.  Wash  the  pieces,  wipe  dry, 
dredge  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  braad  them  by 
dipping  first  in  egg  and  then  m  cracker  meal, 
being  careful  not  to  rub  off  the  breading  or  leave 
a  hole  in  the  coat 

Fry  in  a  skillet  of  hot  lard,  a  few  pieces  at  a 
time,  with  care  not  to  let  the  under  side  burn 
unawares.  The  frying  takes  about  10  minutes. 
It  makes  all  the  difference  between  good  cooking 
and  bad  whether  the  chicken  comes  out  of  a  fine 
golden  brown  or  black  and  smoky. 

Pour  some  good  cream  sauce  in  the  dish  and 
lay  the  pieces  of  chicken  in  it  without  covering 
them. 


451— Water  Cress  Salad. 
Cut  away  the  rough  stems,  pick  off  the  root 
fibers,  and  wash  the  cress  carefully.  Drain,  out 
it  in  inch  lengths,  season  in  a  bowl  with  a  little 
salt  and  pepper,  and  when  they  are  mixed  in 
sprinkle  with  vinegar.  Serve  in  small  salad 
dishes  individually. 


453— Hominy  Cake. 

Use  the  fine  hominy,  or  grits,  as  it  is  called. 
Take  a  large  half-cupful  and  wash  the  dust  out 
of  it — like  washing  rice — to  prevent  burning. 
Put  it  on  to  boil  gently  in  two  oupfula  of  water, 
with  a  little  salt.  Let  it  cook  an  hour,  and  if  dry 
in  the  meantime  add  half  cupful  of  milk.  When 
done  measure — 

Two  cupf  uls  of  cooked  hominy. 

Butter  size  of  an  ettg. 

1  teaspoonfnl  of  sugar. 

1  or  3  eggs. 

X  cupful  of  milk. 

Stir  the  butter  in  while  the  hominy  is  warm, 
beat  the  eggs  and  milk  together,  mix  all;  bake  in 
a  shallow  pan.  Serve  as  a  vegetable  side  dish 
like  fried  mush. 


453— To  I>ress  Terrapin. 

When  there  is  a  question  of  the  quantity  re- 
quired for  a  given  number  of  persons,  it  may  be 
counted  about  the  same  as  of  young  chickens. 
Aa  they  ordinarily  run,  a  terrapin  weighs  from 
two  to  four  pounds  live.  There  are  larger  and 
better,  but  rarely  obtainable  away  from  the 
source  of  supply.  The  amount  of  meat  in  a 
terrapin  is  not  over  half  the  live  weight  It  is 
most  serviceable  stewed  or  in  soup.  Drop  the 
terrapin  alive  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  At 
the  end  of  fifteen  minutes  take  it  out  and  take 
off  the  bottom  shell  by  chipping  through  the 
thinnest  part,  where  it  joins  the  back  shell  be- 
tween the  openings.  This  can  be  done  with  the 
heavy  handle  end  of  a  stout  knife.  Cut  close  to 
the  shell,  not  to  bring  any  meat  away  with  it 
Pour  away  the  water  that  will  be  found  inside, 
but  save  the  blood  that  collects  in  the  deep  shell 
afterwards.  The  gall,  about  the  size  of  a  cherry, 
will  be  seen  near  the  center,  and  must  be  taken 
out  without  breaking;  also  take  out  the  single 
fish-bait  entrail.  Loosen  the  meat  from  the  back 
shell,  and  cut  through  the  spine  bone  that  at- 
taches to  the  shell  at  a  joint  above  the  tail. 
Empty  it  into  a  pan.  When  all  are  done  go  over 
them,  take  off  the  heads  and  put  them  with  the 
sheila  for  soup ;  separate  the  hind  and  fore  feet 
(or  fins  as  some  call  them),  making  four  pieces ; 
trim  off  the  claws  and  scrape  off  the  thin  outside 
cuticle.  It  is  worth  while  to  take  off  the  rich  fat 
that  will  be  found  at  the  shoulder-joints  of  the 
females,  because  it  boils  away  while  the  meat  is 
cooking  tender,  and  should  be  added  later.  It  is 
of  a  very  dark  green  color,  almost  black.  Pre- 
serve along  with  it  all  the  eggs,  both  large  and 
small.  Keep  all  the  pieces  of  meat,  fat  and  eggs 
in  cold  water.  Put  on  the  heads,  shells  and  re- 
maining scraps  in  water  enough  to  more  than 
cover,  boil  slowly  for  two  or  three  hours,  skim- 
ming when  it  first  boils,  then  strain  the  liquor  or 
stock  into  a  clean  saucepan,  put  the  pieces  of 
terranin  in  and  boil  them  one  hour.  The  pieces 
that  were  like  india-rubber  at  first  will  begin  to 

e  tender  by  that  time,  but  before  being  finished 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


87 


as  stew  or  soup,  or  otherwise,  ahonld  be  taken 
up  on  a  dish  to  cool,  and  the  liquor  strained  into 
a  bowl. 


The  terrapin  prepared  as  above  directed  is  at 
the  same  stage  as  canned  terrapin,  and,  lilte  that, 
it  can  be  seasoned  and  finished  for  the  table  in 
different  ways. 

454— Terrapin  in  Siiell,  Maryland  Style. 

Take  a  baking  pan  large  enough  to  hold  as 
many  terrapins  as  wanted,  half  fill  it  with  dry 
gravel  or  sand,  and  make  it  hot  in  the  oven,  Kill 
or  stun  the  terrapins,  wash  oS  and  bed  them 
back  downward  in  the  pan  of  gravel.  Bake 
about  an  hour.  Take  hold  with  a  towel,  pry  off 
the  belly  shell,  remove  the  gall  oag  and  entrail 
from  the  inside,  and  loosen  the  meat  from  the 
shell  without  taking  it  out  Work  a  lump  of  soft 
butter  with  a  little  flour,  pepper,  salt  and 
lemon  juice,  drop  a  spoonful  in  each  terrapin 
and  replace  them  in  the  oven  for  the  seasonings 
to  cook.     Serve  in  shell  on  a  folded  napkin. 


455— Stewed  Terrapin, 

The  meat  of  two  terrapins — about  3  pints. 

The  liquor  or  stock — about  3  pints. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

1  large  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

Herb  and  spice  seasonings. 

3^  cup  of  sherry  or  madeira. 

The  terrapin  and  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in 
being  ready  add  a  little  water  to  the  latter  and  set 
it  on  to  boil  with  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  bruised  pepper 
corns,  a  sprig  of  green  thyme,  three  or  four  of 
parsley,  two  cloves,  half  blade  of  mace,  and  tea- 
spoonful  of  onion.  Stir  the  butter  and  flour  to- 
gether in  a  small  saucepan  over  the  fire  until  it 
is  yellow  or  light  brown,  add  it  to  the  boiling 
stock,  and  also  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  When 
boiled  sufliciently  with  the  thickening  in  it, 
stram  it  into  a  clean  saucepan — that  is  the  sauce. 
Take  the  pieces  of  cooted  terrapin  and  chop  olf 
all  the  projecting  points  of  bones  and  otherwise 
trim  the  joints  smooth  and  shapely,  then  put 
them  into  the  sauce  to  simmer  at  the  side  of  the 
range;  add  the  wine  and  the  fat  pieces,  if  any 
saved,  also  the  eggs,  and  strew  them  over  the 
surface  of  the  stew  when  served. 


456- Corn  Meal  Muffins. 

These  can  be  made  with  yeast,  but  the  process 
is  longer.  Buttermilk  and  soda  will  do  instead 
of  the  sweet  milk  and  powder  named  below,  and 
either  way  the  muffins  take  no  longer  to  make 
than  corn  bread. 

1  heaping  cupful  of  white  corn  meal 

Butter  or  lard,  size  of  an  egg. 

1  cupful  of  boiling  water. 

IJ^  cupfuls  of  cold  milk. 

1  level  cupful  of  flour. 

2  yolks  or  1  egg. 

1  teaspoonful  ot  baking  powder. 


Same  of  salt. 

Boil  the  butter  or  lard  and  cup  of  water  to- 
gether and  pour  them  into  the  meal  to  scald  it 
all.  Add  salt.  Mix  in  the  cold  milk  and  fiour 
and  powder.  Beat  up  well  with  a  bunch  of  wire 
or  wire  egg-whisk.  Bake  in  greased  muffin 
rings  or  in  deep  gem  pans.  If  the  former,  make 
the  baking  pan  and  rings  both  hot  before  pour- 
ing in  the  batter,  then  it  wili  not  run  under ;  for 
the  mixture  has  to  be  quite  thin  to  make  the 
muffins  the  very  best. 


457— Marmalade  of  Canned  .^ijricots. 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar  to  3  cupfuls  of  apricot 
pulp. 

Drain  the  fruit  from  the  syrup  by  pouring  all 
into  a  colander  set  in  a  sauce-pan.  Press  the 
fruit  through  the  colander  into  another  vessel 
and  measure  it.  Put  as  much  sugar  by  measure 
into  the  apricot  juice  in  the  sauce-pan  and  boil 
them  gently  for  half  an  hour,  skimming  once; 
then  put  in  the  mashed  apricot  and  simmer 
down  thick. 

458— Omelet  Saufflee. 

A  soufHee  is  a  puff,  and  an  omelet  so  called  is 
one  whipped  very  light  in  the  raw  state,  cooked 
carefully  to  preserve  its  lightness  and  should  be 
eaten  as  soon  as  done. 

3  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  milk. 

Clear  butter  to  fry  in. 

Yolks  of  eggs  beat  up  lighter  and  better  with 
a  few  drops  of  liquid  added.  Beat  the  yolks  in 
a  small  bowl  aud  the  sugar  and  few  drops  of 
milk  with  them  until  thick  and  light  Whip  the 
whites  very  stiff  and  stir  them  into  the  yolks 
Put  a  spoonful  of  the  clear  part  of  melted  butter 
into  a  small  frying-pan,  put  in  the  omelet  and 
spread  it  out  level,  and  if  convenient  cook  it  in 
the  oven,  set  on  the  bottom.  This  kind  of 
omelet  is  very  apt  to  burn,  through  the  butter 
and  sugar,  and  needs  but  little  heat.  It  will 
bear  turning  over  with  a  broad  knife  if  it  has  to 
be  cooked  over  the  fire.  Dredge  powdered 
sugar  over  the  top  before  taking  from  the  fire. 
Slide  on  to  a  hot  dish. 


MENU     NO.    XLII.— LUNCHEON. 


459  -  Cream  of  Terrapin  Soup. 

Selected  meat  of  3  terrapins. 
3  quarts  of  terrapin  stock. 
1  quart  of  cream, 


Canned  terrapin  can  be  used  to  cut  up  into  a 
rich  cream  soup,  but  at  least  an  equal  portion 
should  be  taken  to  make  the  stock. 

When  the  terrapins  have  been  prepared  from 
the  first,  as  directed  at  No.  453,  there  will  be 
2  or  3  pints  of  strong  stock  already,  and  another 
quart  should  be  made  by  boiling  the  bones,  after 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


the  meat  has  been  cat  off,  until  all  the  glutinous 
parts  are  dissolved,  which  may  take  two  hours' 
slow  cooking,  starting  with  2  quarts  of  water. 
Add  seasonings,  as  before,  of  black  pepper- 
corns (bruised),  parsley  or  sliced  parsley  root,  a 
scrap  of  mace  and  teaspoonful  of  onion. 

Cut  the  meat  of  the  terrapin,  cold,  into  neat 
squares,  size  of  green  peas.  Strain  all  the  terra- 
pin stock  through  a  fine  strainer  into  a  clean 
saucepan,  throw  in  the  meat  and  let  boil  up. 
Boil  the  cream  separately,  and  while  it  is  heat- 
ing rub  a  tableapoonful  of  flour  and  butter,  size 
of  an  egg,  together  in  a  saucepan  and  pour  the 
cream  to  it,  then  through  a  strainer  add  it  to  the 
soup  just  before  serving.  Add  salt.  The  cream 
will  be  very  liable  to  curdle  in  the  soup  if  they 
are  allowed  to  boil  together. 


460— Truffled  Oysters. 

4  dozen  of  the  largest  oysters. 
1  small  can  of  truffles. 

6  ounces  of  breast  of  chicken,  cooked. 
3  ounces  of  fat  salt  pork,  raw. 
Bed  or  pickled  pepper. 

5  eggs,  flour,  toast. 

Mince  and  then  pound  to  a  paste  the  chicken 
and  salt  pork,  and  add  a  quarter  pod  of  re- 
pepper  very  finely  minced.  Cut  the  truffles  to 
the  size  of  peas  and  mix  them  in.  Lay  the  oys- 
ters out  on  a  napkin,  insert  a  penknife  at  the 
edge  and  split  each  oyster  up  and  down  inside 
without  making  the  opening  very  large,  then 
push  in  a  small  teaspoonful  of  the  truffle  force- 
meat 

As  the  oysters  are  stuffed  lay  them  in  flour 
and  coat  well  with  it,  then  dip  them  in  beaten 
egg  in  a  plate.  Drop  a  few  at  a  time  into  hot 
lard  or  oil  and  fry  for  three  or  four  minutes. 
The  lard  should  be  deep  enough  to  immerse 
them  and  hot  enough  to  hiss  sharply  but  not 
smoking.  When  the  oysters  are  of  a  golden 
brown  take  them  up  and  drain  on  blank  paper  in 
a  hot  place.     Dust  with  fine  salt. 

Cut  diamond  shaped  slices  of  thin  dry  toast 
and  serve  four  oysters  laid  diagonally  on  each 
slice. 


461— Stuffed  Oysters— Broiled. 

Grate  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs — 3  or  4  for 
every  dozen  of  the  largest  oysters — mince  half 
as  much  fat  salt  pork  or  bacon  and  mix  in,  also 
black  pepper  and  chopped  parsley.  Add  a  raw 
yolk  to  make  a  paste  of  it  Split  the  oysters  and 
stuff  them  according  to  the  preceding  directions. 
Dip  them  into  bread  crumbs  very  finely  minced 
and  sifted  through  a  colander,  then  into  butter 
melted  on  a  plate,  then  into  the  bread  crumbs 
again  and  broil  them  over  a  clear  fire. 


463-Potted  Ham. 

Take  the  remainder  of  a  ham  when  the  hand- 
somest slices  have  been  out  away ;  trim  off  all 


the  meat,  rejecting  whatever  of  the  outside  is 
dark  colored  or  strong,  and  apportion  one-third 
fat  to  two-thirds  lean.  Season  with  white  pep- 
per or  cayenne.  Mince  the  meat  fine,  the  lean 
first,  and  then  pound  it  to  a  paste  and  mix  both 
lean  and  fat  Rub  it  through  a  seive  with  the 
back  of  a  wooden  spoon.  Press  it  into  small 
jars,  and  pour  melted  butter  on  top  to  exclude 
the  air.  This  is  for  present  use.  If  to  be  kept 
some  time  make  the  potted  ham  hot  by  baking 
in  a  vessel  set  in  another  containing  boiling  wa- 
ter before  putting  into  jars,  and  stir  up  as  it 
cools. 

463— Sandwich  Rollb 

4  cupfuls  of  light  bread  dough. 

1  cupful  of  butter. 

Take  the  dough  from  the  bread.  If  set  with 
yeast  over  night  it  will  be  ready  for  this  purpose 
at  any  time  in  the  morning.  Spread  it  out  on  the 
table  with  the  knuckles  and  then  roll  thin  with 
the  rolling-pin.  Spread  the  butter  all  over  the 
sheet,  fold  it  up  and  roll  out  again ;  fold  in  three 
as  before  and  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes  in  a 
warm  place  to  lose  its  elasticity.  After  that  the 
dough  can  be  rolled  and  folded  twice  more. 
Give  it  another  short  interval  then  roll  out,  out 
out  biscuits,  place  them  in  pans  not  touching, 
brush  over  the  tops  with  a  little  lard  and  hoc 
water  in  a  cup.  Let  rise  an  hour  and  bake. 
These  are  light  rolls  that  will  pull  apart  in  flakes. 


464^Claret  Cup. 

1  bottle  of  claret. 

1  bottle  of  soda  water. 

}{  cupful  of  sherry. 

Peel  of  lemon. 

}{  pound  of  sugar. 

3  or  3  slices  of  cucumber  or  a  sprig  of  borage 
or  verbena. 

Ice. 

Either  grate  the  lemon  rind  or  pare  extremely 
thin  and  rub  it  and  the  sugar  and  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  water  together  in  a  bowL  Add  the 
liquors  and  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved  strain, 
add  ice  and  the  herbs  or  cucumber  slices. 


465-Truffled  Chicken. 

1  fat  pullet,  and  the  breasts  of  3  more. 
1  large  can  of  truffles. 
3»^  pound  of  fat  salt  pork. 


Bone  the  fowl  according  to  directions  at  No. 
306,  and  cut  off  the  fillets  or  white  meat  of  the 
other  two  and  lay  them  a!l  side  by  side  on  the 
table.  Cut  the  fat  pork  in  thin  strips,  score 
gashes  in  thick  parts  of  the  chicken  and  lay  the 
strips  in,  cut  the  truffles  and  dispose  the  pieces 
evenly  where  they  will  show  the  black  spots  in 
the  white  meat  when  the  chicken  is  sliced. 
Dredge  well  with  salt  and  white  pepper  and  a 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


89 


little  nutmeg  and  powdered  thyme.  Then  lay  the 
chiclcen  breasts  in  the  thin  places  of  the  fowl, 
bring  the  two  sides  together  and  sew  up  the 
fowl  mto  nearly  its  original  shape.  Do  it  up  in  a 
cloth,  tie  and  pin  it,  and  boil  it  two  hours  in  salted 
broth.  Press  it  while  cooliLg.  Take  off  the 
cloth  when  cold,  draw  out  the  thread  it  is  sewed 
with.  Serve  the  fowl  either  incased  in  aspic 
jelly,  or  coated  with  melted  butter,  or  slice  it  and 
display  the  slices  in  a  dish. 


466  -Pickled  Maxtsoes. 

These  are  small,  green  melons,  hollowed  out, 
filled  with  other  pickling  vegetables  and  all 
pickled  together. 

Take  the  youug  musk-melons,  the  last  on  the 
vmes,  out  off  one  end,  scoop  out  the  inside,  tie 
on  the  piece  and  put  them  into  a  keg  of  strong 
brine,  the  same  way  that  cucumbers  are  i;ept, 
for  a  day  or  two,  or  until  wanted.  Pi-epare  in 
like  manner  the  other  articles  named  in  these 
proportions :    To  every 

2  dozen  melon  mangoes 

1  pint  of  small  pickling  onions. 

1  pint  of  smallest  young  cucumbers, 

1  pint  of  smallest  green  peppers. 

1  pint  of  green  string  beans. 

J^  pint  of  shred  horseradish.  . 

1  tablespoonful  smallest  red  peppers. 

3  ounces  of  mustard  seed. 

1  ounce  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  whole 
black  pepper. 

Binse  the  small  vegetables  from  the  brine,  set 
them  over  the  fire  in  cold  water  in  separate 
vegetables,  and  as  soon  as  they  begin  to  boil  take 
them  off  and  drain  dry. 

Rinse  the  melons  in  fresh  water  and  wipe  them 
dry,  then  fill  them,  put  into  them  besides  the 
small  vegetables  a  little  horseradish  and 
mustard  seed.  Tie  on  the  end  pieces,  place  the 
mangoes  thus  finished  in  a  liree  gallon  jar. 
Boil  SIX  quarts  of  good  vinegar  with  the  pepper 
and  spices  in  it,  pour  over  the  mangoes,  cover 
and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Drain  off, 
boil  the  vinegar  again  and  pour  it  over,  and 
then  once  or  twice  more.  Keep  covered  in  a 
cool  place. 

467— Chocolate  Layer  Cake* 

Is  made  of  layers  of  delicate  cake,  very  white 
and  fine  grained,  with  chocolate  icing  spread 
between.    The  recipes  for  both  are  found  below. 


468— Delicate  Cake. 

14  ounces  granulated  sugar — 2  cupfuls. 

12  ounces  butter — 3  cupfuls,  small. 

13  ounces  of  white  of  eggs — 14  whites. 

1  pound  of  starch  and  flour  mixed — 2  cupfuls 
of  each. 
Juice  (if  a  lemon,  or  teaspoonful  cream  tartar. 


3^  cupful  of  milk. 

Flavoring  extract  to  fancy. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy  (optional). 

Soften  the  butter  and  rub  it  and  the  sugar 
together  to  a  cream,  add  the  white  of  eggs 
a  little  at  a  time  in  the  same  way  that  eggs 
are  added  in  making  pound  cake,  without  pre- 
vious beating,  then  add  the  mixed  starch  and 
flour  and  beat  most  thorougnly.  Put  in  then  the 
letnon  juice  or  other  acid,  the  flavorings  and 
milk  and  beat  again,  the  more  the  better  for 
whiteness  and  fine  texture.  Bake  either  in  a 
mold  or  on  jelly  cako  pans. 


The  use  of  baking-powder  has  become  so 
nearly  universal  the  writer  finds  that  the 
great  majority  of  people  are  unaware 
thac  the  beat  cakes  can  rise  and 
be  light  and  far  better  without  it  or  any  other 
raising  than  the  butter  or  eggs  that  is  in  them. 
In  the  following  very  fine  white  cake  the  cream 
tartar  and  soda  may  seem  to  be  the  same  thing 
as  using  baking  powder,  but  in  reaUty  they  have 
to  be  kept  apart  and  managed  as  directed,  or  the 
cake  will  not  be  the  deUcate  cake  it  is  intended 
to  be. 


469-Fine  White  Cake. 

18  ounces  granulated  sugar — 2J^  cups. 

8  ounces  white  butter — 1  large  cup. 

}^  pint  of  milk — 1  large  cup. 

5  ounces  of  corn  starch — 1  rounded  cup. 

12  ounces  of  fiour — 3  rounded  cuns. 

3  large  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar. 

1  small  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

12  whites  of  eggs. 

Vanilla  extract  to  flavor. 

Sift  the  cream  tartar  in  the  flour  three  or  four 
times  over. 

Mix  the  starch  in  a  small  bowl  with  the  cup  of 
milk. 

Get  the  whites  of  eggs  ready  in  a  tin  pail  or 
large  whipping  bowl. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  two  spoonfuls  of  milk  in 
a  cup. 

Put  the  sugar  and  butler  together  in  the 
mixing  pan,  warm  them  slightly  and  stir  till 
creamy  and  add  the  dissolved  soda.  Stir  in  the 
corn  starch  and  milk.  Whip  the  whites  to  a  firm 
froth  and  mix  them  and  the  prepared  flour  in  a 
portion  of  each  alternately.  Flavor.  Bake  as 
soon  as  mixed;  either  in  layers  for  chocolate 
cake  or  in  a  mold.  If  the  latter,  frost  over  when 
cold. 


470— Chocolate  Boiled  Icios— Best. 

For  spreading  between  layers  of  cake  and  for 
covering  the  top,  or  for  dipping  cream  puffs  in 
to  coat  them. 

1  pound  of  granulated  sugar— 3  cupfuls. 

3^  teaoupful  of  water. 

3  ounces  of  grated  chocolate — the  common  sort 
— a  small  cupful. 


90 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


4  whole  egga. 

Tanilla  flavoring  extract. 

Boil  tlie  Bugar  and  water  together  in  a  deep 
saucepan  for  five  minutes,  add  the  chocoelate. 

When  a  drop  in  cold  water  sets  hard  almost  as 
candy,  stir  in  the  eggs  rapidly,  beating  all  the 
while.  Let  coo!(  about  five  minutes  more  with 
constant  stirring.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat 
more  or  less  while  it  is  cooling.  Spread  or  pour 
it  over  sheets  of  cake.  It  is  called  best  because 
it  cuts  well,  and  does  not  crack  and  break  off  the 
cakes. 

471— Chocolate    Boiled    Icine    Without  Ebss. 

1  pound  of  sugar — 3  cupfuls. 

14  teacupful  of  water. 

4  ounces  of  common  chocolate,  graded — a  cup- 
ful. 

Boil  all  together  almost  to  candy  point,  flavor 
with  vanilla  when  navtly  cooled,  beat  a  short 
time,  spread  over  the  cake. 

473 — Chocolate  Icint;  Not  Boiled, 

1  pound  of  sugar — SJ  cups — either  granulated 
or  powdered  will  do. 

6  whites  of  eggs. 

4  ounces  of  grated  common  chocolate — a  cup- 
ful. 

3  teaspoonf  ula  of  vanilla  extract. 

Put  the  sugar  and  white  of  eggs  together  into 
a  bowl  and  beat  rapidly  with  a  wooden  spoon  or 
paddle  in  a  cool  place  for  about  tea  minutes,  or 
until  you  have  good  white  frosting.  Set  the 
grated  chocolate  on  the  side  of  tlie  stove  to 
melt  merely  by  the  heat,  without  anything  added 
to  it  Pour  it  to  the  frosting  in  the  bowl,  add 
flavor,  beat  up  and  use  to  cover  cakes  or  spread 
between  layers. 

473— Frosted  Oranges. 

Make  plain  white  icing  (see  former  portion  of 
preceding  recipe),  and  use  it  to  dip  orange 
slices  in  just  when  it  has  become  too  thick  with 
beating  not  to  run  off,  and  yet  thin  enough  to 
settle  to  smoothness.  Or,  if  so  good  that  it  has 
already  become  too  firm,  thin  it  by  adding  the 
white  of  another  egg  or  part  of  one. 

Prepare  the  oranges  by  peeling  and  separating 
by  the  natural  divisions,  without  breaking  the 
covering  or  getting  the  pieces  wet  Have  a  long 
splinter  or  thin  skewer  ready  for  each  one,  and 
fill  a  large  bowl  with  sugar  or  salt  and  stick 
them  in.  Stick  the  point  of  a  skewer  into  the 
edge  of  the  oran'^e  section,  dip  into  the  frosting, 
push  the  other  end  of  the  skewer  into  the  bowl 
of  salt,  and  let  the  pieces  hang  over  the  edge  of 
the  bowl  m  a  warm  place  to  dry. 


MENU  NO.  XLIII.— DINNER. 


474— Veeetible  Soup. 

S  quarts  of  soup  stock — S  or  10  cups. 
3  cuptuls  of  mixed  vegetables. 


Take  for  the  stock  the  liquor  in  which  almost 


any  kind  of  meat  has  been  boiled — beef  shank, 
mutton,  heart,  tongue,  fowl,  rabbit,  etc.,  and 
corned  beef  liquor  does  very  welL  The  richer 
the  stock  can  be,  of  course,  the  better  it  is. 
Strain  it  into  the  soup  pot.  Skim  off  most 
of  the  fat  Almost  every  kind  of  vegetable  can 
be  used.  Take  a  piece  of  each  and  cut  all  into 
dice  shapes,  or,  if  to  be  very  nice,  cut  vegetables 
in  slices  and  stamp  out  little  patterns  with  a  tin 
cutter  or  the  point  of  a  tin  funnel  There  should 
be  turnips  white  and  yellow,  carrot,  pumpkin, 
celery,  string  beans,  green  peas,  onions,  summer 
squash,  cauliflower.  If  vegetables  are  scarce,  a 
little  parsnip  and  cabbage  and  potatoes  can  be 
used,  but  the  latter  put  in  late  so  as  not  to  boil 
away. 

Boil  the  hard  vegetables,  such  as  carrots, 
turnips,  onions,  string  beans  and  celery,  together 
in  a  little  saucepan  first;  then  pour  the 
water  away  and  put  the  vegetables  in  the 
boiling  stock,  and  add  the  easy-cooking  kinds, 
such  as  cauliflower,  asparagus  heads  and  peas — 
whatever  may  be  on  hand  At  last  add  a  piece 
of  red  tomato,  out  small,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste  and  a  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  mixed 
in  a  cup  with  water. 


475-Soft-Shell  Crabs,  Boiled. 

Every  part  of  a  soft-shell  crab  is  eatable, 
shell,  claws  and  all,  except  the  sand  pouch  on 
the  under  side,  but  the  small  claws  should  be 
taken  off  when  the  crabs  are  to  be  cooked  by 
boiling. 

Drop  the  crabs  into  boiling  water  already  well 
salted,  cook  about  fifteen  minutes,  drain,  and 
serve  with  a  sauce  at  the  side. 

Mayonaise  sauce,  cold,  tomato  catsup,  hot 
cream  sauce,  butter  sauce  or  parsley  sauce  are 
suitable  kinds. 


476— Boiled  Bacon,  and  Cabbage. 

Cut  summer  cabbage  in  quarters  and  cut  out 
moat  of  the  thick  stem  part.  Let  it  lie  in  a  pan 
of  cold  water  until  wanted  to  cook.  Put  on  a 
saucepan  plenty  large  enough  with  water  and 
salt  and  a  vei'y  Kttle  baking  soda  in  it — about  the 
size  of  a  bean  for  two  cabbages — when  it  boils 
put  in  the  cabbage  and  let  it  cook  half  an  hour. 


Shave  the  smoky  outside  off  a  pound  of  baoon 
and  boil  the  bacon  in  a  saucepan  by  itself  for 
half  hour.  Then  drain  off  both  cabbage  and 
bacon  and  put  them  both  together  in  one  pot,  pour 
in  boiling  water  just  to  cover,  put  on  a  good- 
fitting  lid  and  let  them  slowly  cook  together  half 
hour  longer. 

The  quarters  of  cabbage,  nice  and  green  ap- 
pearing, should  be  drained  in  the  spoon  as  they 
are  taken  up  without  destroying  their  shape,  and 
placed  in  the  dish  with  the  bacon  sliced  on  top. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


91 


477— larded  rillet  ot  Bt  nf. 

This  13  rothing  if  not  neat,  nuiform,  precise 
and  workmanlike  in  appearance.  There  must 
be  a  pound  of  fat  bacon  for  larding,  cold  and 
firm,  so  that  it  can  bo  out  aright  Cut  the  slices 
a  quarter  inch  thick,  cut  these  in  lengths  of  1}'^ 
inches  and  then  into  strips  all  precisely  alike 
and  as  thick  as  a  common  pencil. 

Procure  the  iillet  or  tenderloin  of  beef  with 
the  fat  on  it,  that  is  ivith  the  coating  of  suet 
that  ooTers  the  upper  side  of  it,  and 
shave  that  down  until  the  cover- 
ing of  fat  is  about  as  thick  as  a  beefsteak  all 
over  it  Then  raise  the  edge  of  the  fat  at  one 
side,  skinning  the  fillet,  so  to  apeak,  and  lay  the 
sheet  of  fat  over  on  the  other  side  without  cut 
ting  it  off.  This  is  to  have  tln<  sheet  of  fat 
attached  ready  to  cover  over  the  fillet  again 
after  it  is  larded  with  the  strips  of  bacon.  Draw 
the  point  of  a  sharp  kuife  across  and  across  the 
skin  inside  the  fat,  to  score  it  so  that  it  will  not 
draw  up  in  cooking.  Trim  off  the  thin  end  of 
the  fillet  and  round  oft  tho  thick  end.  Com- 
mence at  the  thick  end  with  the  larding. 
Insert  a  piece  of  bacon  in  the  end 
of  the  larding  needle  (see  No.  430)  and  draw 
it  through  the  top  parts  of  the  meat  pinched  up 
with  the  left  thumb  and  finger  for  the  purpose, 
one  end  of  the  strip  of  bacon  so  inserted  wiil  be 
left  leaning  backward,  the  other  forward,  on  the 
surface.  Insert  6  or  more  of  these  strips  m  a 
row  across.  Begin  the  next  row  so  that  tho 
strips  will  come  alternately  between  those  of  the 
first,  and  the  exposed  ends  will  cross  the  others, 
and  so  continue,  with  the  regularity  of  stitching 
cloth,  to  the  other  end.  Cover  the  larded  fillet 
with  the  sheet  of  fat.  Make  a  long  and  narrow 
baking  pan  hot  in  the  oven,  with  a  tablespoonf  ul 
of  salt  and  a  cup  of  drippings  in  it.  and  enough 
water  to  keep  the  bottom  from  burning.  Put  in 
also  a  slice  of  turnip,  carrot  and  onion,  and  a 
piece  of  celery.  Have  the  oven  hot,  put  in  the 
fillet,  and  roast  it  with  the  fat,  covering  it  half 
an  hour ;  then  take  off  the  fat,  baste  the  fillet 
with  the  contents  of  the  pan,  and  let  cook  fifteen 
minutes  longer,  by  which  time  the  surface  of 
the  meat  should  he  brown,  and  bacon  strips 
brown  too,  witnout  being  burnt  at  the  ends. 

Filiets  of  beet  vary  in  weight  and  thickness, 
and  the  tinw  above  given  is  only  a  guide  to  the 
average.  Unless  specially  ordered  otherwise, 
the  thick  part  of  the  fillet  should  cut  slightly 
rare  in  the  middle,  while  the  thinner  portion  is 
well  done. 

In  carving,  the  fillet  should  be  sliced  across 
vertically  because  it  is  a  mass  of  strings  of  meat 
lying  Hide  by  side,  and  if  out  slantingly  the  slices 
begin  to  be  stringy  and  coarse.  A  fillet  that  is 
to  be  braised  along  with  herbs,  spices,  ve;:o- 
tables,  wine,  etc.,  is  larded  with  strips  of  bacon 
or  fat  pork  that  pass  clear  through  from  one 
side  to  the  oth^r  diagonally,  so  that  the  slices 


are  cut  across  when  done  and  show  the  larding 
all  through  the  meat. 


478— Brown  Gravr. 

Before  serving  the  fillet,  or  any  roast  meat,  let 
the  gravy  in  the  pan  dry  down  until  the  urease 
can  be  poured  off  clear,  while  the  glaze  remains 
adhering  to  the  pan;  pour  in  water  to  dissolve  it, 
and  when  it  has  boiled  add  a  trifle  of  brown 
fioiir  thickening  if  it  seems  to  need  it;  strain 
through  a  fine  strainer;  serve  some  in  the  dish 
with  the  fillet,  the  rest  in  a  sauceboat. 


479-Brown  Flom-  fur  Thickening-. 

While  butter  and  flour  mixed  in  equal  parts 
and  baked  brown  makes  the  best  tliiekening  for 
gravies,  plain  browned  flour  does  nearly  as  well 
aud  is  more  desirable  when  the  butter  is  not  very 
good.  Put  some  sifted  flour  dry  into  a  frying- 
pan  and  hake  deep  brown  in  the  oven.  Use  it 
at  the  rate  of  a  tahlespoonful  to  a  cupful  of 
liquid.  Wet  with  water  the  same  as  raw  flour, 
before  stirring  it  in.  It  may  be  kept  in  a  can 
always  ready. 


480— Slufled  lomatoes 

0  or  8  large  tomatoes. 

1  cupful  of  fine  bread  crumbs. 

1  rounded  tahlespoonful  of  minced  onion. 

1  heaping  tahlespoonful  minced  fat  bacon,  or 
butter  in  equal  amount. 

S.ight  grating  of  nutmeg. 

Cayenne  and  salt. 

Do  not  peel  the  tomatoes,  and  take  a  slice  off 
the  rou^h  stem  side  and  scoop  out  the  inside 
with  a  teaspoon  into  colander,  so  that  the  juice 
may  partly  drain  away.  Cat  a  thin  slice  or  two 
of  bread  ana  mince  it  across  to  make  a  cupful. 
Mix  the  crumbs  aud  tomato  pulp  together,  ba- 
con, onion,  very  little  salt,  if  any,  pepper,  and 
touch  of  nutmeg  or  mace. 

Fill  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixture  rounded  up 
on  top,  bake  in  small  pan  well  buttered,  with  a 
greased  sheet  of  paper  over,  one-half  hour. 
Then  moisten  over  the  tops  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon  dipped  in  butter,  dredge  fine  bread 
crumbs  on  top  and  bake  again  without  cover 
until  they  are  well  browned. 


481— Chicken   CroqUBlics. 

3  cupfuls  of  cut  chicken  meat — 8  ounces. 

1  small  cupful  of  bread  panada — 4  ounces. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

1  egg. 

1  tahlespoonful  of  chopped  parsley.. 

Lemnn  juice,  nntmes,  salt,  pepper. 

Cracker  meal  and  milk  fur  breading. 

Bread    panada  is  stale  bread   steeped  a  few 


92 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


minutes  in  cold  water  and  then  wrung  dry  in  a 
cloth.     One  roll  will  be  enougii  for  this  recipe. 

Cut  the  chiciien  meat  in  thin  a!rip3  and  then 
aorosB,  making  very  small  dice-shapes — a  way 
that  is  always  better  than  chopping  it 

Mix  the  meat,  panada,  cold  butter,  egg  an'l 
parsley  by  rubbing  together  with  a  spoon,  add 
a  squeeze  of  lemon  and  half  a  teaspoonf  ul  of 
mixed  salt  and  pepper  and  slignt  grating  of 
nutmeg. 

This  makes  seven  or  eight  croquettes  in  pear 
shape  or  round  or  flattened. 

To  bread  them,  mix  flonr  and  cracker  meal  in 
equal  parts  together  dry.  Koll  the  croquettes  in 
milk,  then  in  the  mixture,  then  in  milk  and  in 
tlie  mixture  again,  coating  them  well  without 
rubbing,  and  drop  them  into  a  deep  saucepan  of 
hot  lard.  Let  them  be  well  done  through  and 
brown. 

See,  also,  No.  384.  By  these  two  recipes  cro- 
quettes of  all  kinds  of  meat  can  be  made. 


483— Sauce  for  CrocjURttes. 

}4  cupful  of  brown  meat  gravy. 
J^l  cupful  of  fresh  butter 
14  teaspoonful  of  white  pepper. 
Salt,  if  not  in  the  gravy. 

Boil  all  together;  pour  a  spoonful  over  the 
croquette  when  served. 


483— Terrapin  Vol-an-Veiit. 

2  oupfuls  of  cut  terrapin  moat. 

1  cupful  of  terrapin  stock. 
y{  cupful  of  sherry. 

2  cloves  and  small  scrap  of  mace  and  a  sprig 
or  two  of  parsley  or  savory. 

1  tablespoonf  ul  of  butter. 

1  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour. 

Having  the  terrapin  meat  already  prepared 
and  cold  on  a  dish,  as  directed  in  the  latter  part 
of  No.  453,  and  the  liquor  it  was  boiled  in  like- 
wise, set  the  specified  amount  of  the  liquor  or 
stock  on  to  boil,  with  the  seasonings  in  it.  Mix 
the  butter  and  browned  flour  together  and 
thicken  the  liquor  with  them,  add  the  wine, 
strain  into  another  saucepan,  put  in  the  cut 
terrapin,  add  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  and  let 
simmer  a  short  time  at  the  back  of  the  range. 

Bake  six  or  eight  vol-au-vent  cases  of  puff 
paste  (see  No.  256)  an<l  fill  them  with  the  pre- 
pared terrapin. 


484— Stewed  Cucuniber.-i, 

Pare  throe  or  four  young  and  good  cucumbers, 
and  cut  them  ia  thick  slices,  boil  these  in  water, 
with  a  little  salt  and  vinegar  in  it — the  same  as 
for  egg-plant— for  about  fiftesn  minutes,  then 
pour  away  the  water.  Mako  a  cupful  of  cream 
sauce  in  another   saucepan,    and,  when  ready. 


beat  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar.  Pour  this  yellow  sauce  (HoUandaise) 
over  the  slices  of  cucumber,  after  they  have  been 
placed  neatly  in  their  dish. 


485— Angelica  Punch. 

2  cupfuls  of  California  angelica  wine. 

3  cupfuls  of  hot  water — a  pint. 
1  cupful  of  sugar — J^  pound. 

1  cupful  of  stemmed  raisins — y{  pound. 

1  lemon. 

2  whites  of  eggs  and  2  tablespoonfula  of  pow- 
dered sugar  to  beat  in. 

Chop  the  raisins,  grate  half  the  rind  of  the 
lemon,  squeeze  in  all  of  the  juice,  pour  the  hot 
water  to  them,  add  the  sugar,  and  stir  until  it  is 
all  dissolved.  Strain  the  flavored  syrup  thus 
obtained  into  a  freezer,  and  rub  the  moat  of  the 
raisin  pulp  through  as  well.  Add  the  wme  and 
freeze.  'When  nearly  frozen  whip  the  two 
whites  and  the  powdered  sugar  together  till 
thick,  add  them  to  the  punch  and  finish  freezing. 
It  is  like  cream.     Serve  in  stem  glasses. 


486— Koast  Prairie  Cliickeiis. 

Choose  small  prairie  chickens  when  choice  is 
given,  for  the  large  birds  are  likeliest  to  prove 
tough  and  can  be  cooked  in  stews  and  pies  instead 
of  roasted.  The  breast  is  the  principal  part.  Lard 
it  with  thm  strins  of  fat  bacon,  in  rows  as  di- 
rected at  No.  477.  Eoast  as  directed  for  larded 
fillet  of  beef,  with  a  greased  sheet  of  pa- 
per ^on  top,  to  protect  the  larding,  and  let  re- 
main in  the  oven  about  40  minutes. 

Prepare  a  border  of  water-cress  for  the  dish 
by  picking  it  over,  cutting  away  the  coarser 
stalks  and  shaking  it  free  from  water,  and  dish 
the  prairie  chickens  in  the  midst. 


487— Fine  Hominy  PudJiu^. 

2  large  cupfuls  of  cooked  fine  hominy — hom  ■ 
iny  grits  or  samp. 

Butter  size  of  an  egg — 1)^  ounces. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar — 2  ounofis. 

2  yolks  or  1  egg. 

1  small  cupful  of  milk. 

The  hominy  grits  already  cooked,  should  be 
dry  and  firm,  otherwise  use  less  milk  or  none. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  together,  the  butter  soft- 
ened first,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding  pan 
about  fifteen  minutes.  It  takes  a  quart  pan  to 
baliO  it  in.  Use  yolUs  of  eggs  if  a  rich  pudding 
is  wanted.  Serve  with  a  sauce.  If  no  hominy 
ready  put  on  a  large  half  cupful  in  full  cup  of  wa- 
ter, and  when  it  lias  boiled  nearly  dry  add  a 
small  cup  of  mill;  and  pinch  of  salt;  never  stir 
it,  but  let  cook  with  a  lid  on  one  half  hour 
longer,  at  the  back  of  the  range. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


93 


4gS-Caiacoa   Sauce. 

1  oupfnl  of  water 

yi  cupful  of  sugar 

1  rounded  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch 

A  slice  of  lemou 

1-^  cupful  of  curacoa. 

Boil  the  water,  mix  starch  and  sugar  together 
dry  and  stir  them  in  and  a  slice  or  two  of  lemon. 
Let  simmer  until  it  becomes  quite  clear.  Then 
add  the  curacoa.  The  sauce  changes  to  rose 
color  after  a  few  minutes.  Curacoa  is  a  cordial 
made  of  orange  peel,  cloves  and  spirits  of  wine. 


4S9— Sliced  Banana  Pie. 

Lay  a  crust  of  puff  paste  in  the  pie  pan,  rolling 
the  paste  so  that  the  middle  of  the  crust  will  be 
much  thinner  than  the  edge.  This  is  done  by 
doubling  the  paste  over  before  putting  it  on  the 
pan  and  rolling  the  part  that  will  be  the  middle 
with  the  end  of  the  rolling  pin,  having  flour 
enough  about  the  paste  to  prevent^  sticking,  then 
opening  it  and  pressing  it  in  the  plate  ail  around. 
Peel  3  or  4  bananas,  cut  them  lengthwise 
in  2  or  3  and  lay  the  slices  in  the  pie 
3  layers  deep,  cover  moderately  with  sugar, 
drop  a  blade  of  mace  broken  in  pieces 
and  some  little  lumps  of  fresh  butter  all  over 
the  banana  slices,  pour  in  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
wine  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  30  minutes. 
No  top  crust. 


490— Banana  C  euni  Pie. 

1  large  cupful  of  mashed  banana. 

8  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Butter,  size  of  ar  egg. 

3  eggs. 

1^  cupful  of  milk. 

X  cupful  of  angelica  or  sherry 

Separate  the  eggs  and  keep  the  whites  to  whip. 
Soften  the  butter,  mix  all  and  stir  weU.  Add 
the  whipped  whites  just  before  the  pies  are  to  be 
baked.  Bake  without  top  crust.  It  makes  2 
pies.  They  are  apt  to  bake  too  quickly  on  top 
and  should  be  guarded  with  something  on  the 
top  shelf  of  the  stove. 


MENU     NO.      XLIV— DINNER. 


491  -  Split  Fea  Soup. 

3}^  quarts  of  soup  stock. 

A  soup  bunch  of  vegetables. 

A  cupful  of  split  peas. 

The  stock  may  be  the  liquor  in  which  any  kind 
of  meat  has  been  boiled,  and  should  have  a 
flavoring  of  salt  meat,  such  as  a  cupful  of  liquor 
from  the  corned  beef  boiler  or  a  small  ham  bone 

Soak  the  peas  some  time  before  cooking,  if 
convenient.  Drain  them  and  boil  then  in  the 
soup  about  an  hour.  While  boiUng  add  a  small 
quantity  of  chopped  vegetables,    mostly  onions 


and  celery.  The  peas  should  partly  boil  away 
and  thicken  the  soup,  while  some  of  them  still 
remain  distinct;  when  this  is  not  satisfactorily 
accomplished,  add  a  spoonful  of  flour  thicken- 
ing. Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  a 
small  lump  of  butter  at  last 

Puree  of  pea  soup  can  be  made  as  directed 
for  puree  of  beans.  It  is  an  English  custom  to 
dry  mint  and  crumble  it  over  the  top  of  pea 
soup. 


493-  Boilea  Kabbic  and  Salt  Fork. 

Cut  the  rabbit  in  6  pieces,  first  across  the  hip 
joints,  and  separating  the  legs,  then  the  loms 
make  2  cuts,  and  at  last  divide  the  shoulders, 
throving  away  the  head  and  the  thin  edge  of 
the  ribs.  Steep  in  cold  water  to  draw  the  blood 
and  wash  carefully.  Boil  in  salted  water  until 
tender,  and  boil  J-^  pound  of  salt  or  pioliled  pork 
with  it.  Large  rabbits  usually  have  to  be  boiled 
2  hours  before  they  are  fit  to  eat ;  young  ones 
may  cook  in  the  same  time  as  chickens. 

When  done  place  the  pieces  iu  natural  order 
in  a  dish,  slice  the  pork  and  lay  it  on  top,  and 
pour  parsley  sauce  over  all. 


493-Koast  Suckius  Pie. 

The  pig  will  be  ready  trussed  when  it  comes 
from  the  butcher's,  with  the  toes  inserted  in  slits 
cut  in  the  skin.  Lay  it  on  its  back  and  drive  the 
point  of  a  sharp  knife  down  through  the  bone  of 
the  back,  dividing  it  convenient  for  carving,  and 
also  detach  the  ribs  along  one  side,  and  loosen 
the  inner  joints  of  the  hipa  and  legs,  which  can 
be  done  without  spoiling  the  outside  appearance 
of  the  pig.  Wash,  and  wipe  it  dry,  stuff  with 
the  bread  dressing  containing  sage  and  onions, 
No.  30,  and  sew  up  with  twine.  Koast  about  two 
hours,  covered  with  a  sheet  of  greased  paper  for 
part  of  the  time,  and  baste  with  butter  to  get  a 
fine  transparent  brown  color  on  the  skin  at  last 
Make  gravy  in  the  pan  to  pour  around  the  pig  in 
the  dish.  Serve  apple  sauce  separately  in  a 
sauce  dish.  It  is  a  time-honored  custom  to  in- 
sert a  small  apple  in  the  mouth  of  the  pig  be- 
fore sending  it  to  table. 


494— Boiled  Kale  or  Seakale. 

Wash  free  from  grit,  tie  it  in  bunches,  trim  off 
the  root  end  and  boil  it  in  salted  water,  like  win- 
ter spinnach,  about  twenty  minutes.  Drain  in  a 
colander.  Pour  a  spoonful  of  butter  sauce  over 
each  bunch  In  the  dish. 


495— Tapioca  Pudding. 

3  ounces  of  tapioca — large  3^  cupful. 
IJ^  pints  of  milk — 3  cups,  small 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
1  ounce  of  butter— small  egg  size. 


94 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


4  yollis  or  3  whole  eggs. 

YaniUa  extract  or  grated  lemon  rind  for  flavor 

Yolka  of  egsa  make  the  richest  puddings,  the 
■wliitea  are  only  like  so  much  corn  starch  added, 
unless  in  articles  that  require  them  whipped  up, 
when  they  add  ligbtness. 

The  pearl  tapioca,  in  round  grains,  is 
the  best  to  work  with.  The  other,  large 
and  rough,  cannot  well  be  measured,  bat 
should  be  weighed.  Crush  it  with  the 
rolling-pin,  and  sift  away  the  dust.  Soak 
it  in  half  the  milk  about  two  hours  in  a 
warm  place,  but  not  hot,  lest  it  cake  together  too 
much.  Boil  the  rest  of  the  milk  with  the  sugar 
in  it — which  prevents  burning— put  in  the  soaked 
tapioca  and  simmer  }<  hour.  Add  the  butter, 
beaten  yolks  and  flavor.  Bake  about  30  minutes. 
Serve  with  any  of  the  pudding  sauces. 


family  pudding  dishes  consist  of  a  tin  pan  or 
a  graniteware  pan,  holding  about  a  quart,  for 
baking  in,  with  another  pan  or  dish,  plated,  to 
set  the  baking  pan  m,  and  a  plated  ring  that  fits 
and  covers  the  edge  of  both,  thus  hiding  the 
baking  pan  itself  from  sight  when  set  on  the 
table  whole.  In  the  bast  hotels  the  puddings  are 
baked  in  pint  bowls  and  served  entire,  one  to 
each  person. 


496-Plaxn  Apple  Pie. 

For  the  crust: 

1  cupful  of  lard — }4  pound. 

3  oupfuls  of  flour,  large— 1  pound. 

Eub  the  lard  and  flour  together  dry  with  the 
hands  until  they  are  evenly  mixed  all  through, 
then  pour  cold  water  in  the  middle,  add  a  little 
salt,  and  stir  up  with  two  fingers,  drawing  in  the 
flour  gradually.  Spread  some  of  the  flour  on 
the  table  and  pat  the  paste  into  a  smooth  mass 
in.  it;  roll  out  the  paste  once,  fold  it  up  like 
doublmgi-up  a  napkin,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

Cover  a  pia  pan»with  a  layer  of  the  paste  rolled 
thin.  Peel  S  good  apples,  such  as  will  cook 
easily,  slice  Vnem  off  the  cores  into  the  pie,  cover 
with  another  crust,  out  off  the  paste  at  the  edges 
by  pressiug  with  both  hands  against  the  jjie  pan 
and  turning  it  around  at  the  same  time.  Bake  in 
a  slack  oven  until  the  apples  are  done,  from  15 
to  30  minutes.  Some  people  grate  nutmeg  or 
add  cinnamon  to  the  apples,  and  dredge  a  little 
flour  over  them  before  putting  on  the  top  crust 


497— Rice  Cup  Custard. 

The  right  Droportiou  of  rice,  or  tapioca,  or  sago 
to  mix  in  a  boiled  custard  for  a  cold  cup  custard 
of  this  sort  is  3  ounces  to  each  quart  of  milk — i 
ounces  to  a  quart  makes  a  pudding. 


3  cupfuls  of  milk— 1}^  pints. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  raw  rice- IJ^  ounces. 

5  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar— 5  ounces. 

3  eggs  (4  yolks  betten) 

y{  cupful  of  cream  to  whip. 

Flavoring  extract,  or  s&ak  cinnamon. 

Boil  the  milk  with  the  sugar  in  it,  wash  the 
rioe  aud  throw  it  in  and  let  simmer  slowly  until 
the  rioe  is  cooked  tenier — about  J^hour  or  more. 
Beat  the  eggs,  pour  a  little  of  the  rice-milk  to 
them,  add  them  to  the  milk  on  the  Sre,  stir,  and 
watch  till  ii  begins  to  boil  up  in  the  middle 
again,  when  instantly  take  it  off  and  pour  it  into 
annther  vessel  to  stop  the  cooking  lest  the  eggs 
curdle  in  it 

Make  the  r:oe  custard  ice  cold  and  flavor  it. 
Whip  the  half  cupful  of  cream  and  mix  It  in  just 
before  serving.     Serve  in  custard  cups. 


MENU  NO.  XLV.— SUPPER. 


498— Old-Fasliioned  Family  Beefsteak. 

Some  people  manage  very  well  to  broil  meat 
by  taking  off  a  stove  lid  and  placing  the  grid- 
iron or  wire  broiler  over  the  hole.  With  a  little 
forethought  to  let  the  fire  burn  down  clear  in 
time  it  does  very  well.  The  damper  should  bo 
turned  so  as  to  malie  a  strong  draft  and  draw 
the  smoke  and  flame  up  the  chimney,  especially 
when  it  is  aooaliire.  Some  of  the  best  hotels 
have  ranges  with  ilarge  openings  in  the  top  for 
the  very  same  purpose,  but  used  especially  for 
toasting  bread. 

The  better  way  is  to  put  a  layer  of  small 
broken  charcoal  in  the  ash-pan  and  some  live 
coals  on  top,  and  cover  all  exospt  an  opening  in 
front  with  an  inverted  baking-pan,  so  that  the 
draft  to  the  flre  must  pass  over  the  charcoal  un- 
der the  pan. 

Take  the  steak  as  bought  of  the  butcher  and 
notch  the  edges  to  prevent  drawing  up  in  cook- 
ing, and  beat  it  out  more  or  less  with  mallet  or 
cleaver,  lay  it  on  the  gridiron  and  place  it  over 
the  glowing  coals.  Sprinkle  coarse  salt  on  the 
fire  if  the  flame  is  troublesome;  the  salt  puts  it 
out  and  makes  the  fire  clear. 

Prepare  the  gravy  while  the  steak  is  broiling. 
Put  a  quarter  pound  of  butter  into  a  pan  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  same  of  salt,  and  % 
cupful  of  water.  When  the  steak  is  sufficiently 
done  on  both  sides  put  it  into  the  pan  with  the 
butter,  etc.,  and  press  it  and  turn  it  over  to 
thoroughly  season  it.  Set  pan  and  steak  over 
the  fire  a  minute,  and  the  gravy  will  presently 
be  found  to  be  as  thick  as  cream.  Serve  whole 
on  a  large,  hot  dish,  with  the  gravy  poured 
over. 

499-Baked  Sams. 

These  are  large,  yellow  sweet  potatoes,  some- 
I  what  course,  but  mealy  and  good,  that  grow  to 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


95 


an  enormona  size  in  the  far  Soutli.  Cut  or  cliop 
them  into  the  aize  of  ordioary  potatoes  and  bake 
in  the  same  way  with  the  skins  on,  about  an 
hour. 


600— Shrimp  Toast. 

1  cupful  of  picked  shrimps  or  canned  shrimps 
or  prawns. 

3^  cupful  of  fresh  butter. 

3  or  4  slices  of  thin  toast. 

Pound  a  quarter  of  the  shrimps  to  a  paste. 
A  porcelain  potato  maaher  and  a  round-bot- 
tomed saucepan  does  well  for  the  purpose  if  you 
have  no  mortar  and  pestle.  Mi.K  the  paste  with 
half  the  butter  and  spread  the  slices  of  toast 
with  it.  Warm  the  rest  of  the  butter  in  a  fry- 
ing-pan and  the  shrimps  in  it,  and  pile  them  on 
the  toast  in  a  dish.  The  toast  should  be  cut  to  a 
neat  shape,  without  rough  edges. 


501— German  Apple  Cake. 

2  cupfuls  of  light  bread  dough— 1  pound. 

2  tablespoonf  uls  of  sugar. 
Butter  or  lard  size  of  an  egg. 

3  or  3  apples. 

Sugar  and  cinnamon  to  dredge. 

Take  the  piece  of  light  dough — either  from  the 
bread  pan,  or  procured  from  the  baker,  or  started 
with  yeast  for  the  purpose — at  noon  and  work  in 
the  sugar  and  butter  slightly  warm.  Knead  it  on 
the  table  with  flour  sufScient  to  make  it  soft 
dough  again.  Set  it  away  to  rise  until  4  o'clock. 
Enead  it  then  on  the  table,  spreading  it  out  with 
the  knuckles,  folding  over  and  repeating  the 
process  for  several  minutes.  This  malcea  all 
kinds  of  raised  dough  good. 

Let  it  stand  a  few  minutes  to  lose  its  elastic 
tendency  to  draw  back  oat  of  shape,  then  roll  it 
out  and  cover  a  baking  pan  with  it.  Pare 
and  cut  the  apples  in  slices,  stick  them  into  the 
sheet  of  dough  and  Qredge  all  over  with  mixed 
sugar  and  cinnamon.  Let  rise  till  5  and  bake 
^  hour. 


60a~Peacli  Butter. 

8  cupfuls  of  sliced  peaches. 

4  cupfuls  of  Biigar. 

3  cupfuls  of  water. 

The  peaches  need  not  be  peeled,  but  should 
be  rubbed  in  a  coarse  towel  before  slicing. 

Put  the  water  into  a  kettle  or  bright  pan ;  then 
the  peaches;  shut  in  the  steam  and  let  cook  at 
the  back  of  the  stove,  or  set  on  bricks,  for  an 
hour  or  longer.  Then  add  the  sugar,  and  do  not 
leave  it,  as  it  burns  very  easily,  but  keep  stirring 
with  a  broad  wooden  paddle  while  it  boils  one- 
half  hour  more.     Keep  in  a  jar  in  a  cool  place. 


503— Family  Fruit  Cake. 

3  cupfuls  of  raisins — 1  pound. 

4  of  currants — 1  pound. 
1  of  sugar — 6  ounces. 

1  of  butter— 6  ounces. 
1  molasses — 13  ounces. 

3  eggs. 

1  cupful  of  sour  Uiilk. 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

4  large  cupfuls  of  flour — 18  ounces. 

Having  prepared  the  fruit,  make  the  butter 
soft,  mix  it  and  the  sugar,  molasses,  eggs  and 
sour  milk  together  in  a  pan,  and  beat  well;  mix 
the  soda  in  the  flour,  put  that  in  and  beat  again. 
Dust  the  fruit  with  flour,  atir  it,  bake  in  a  mold 
or  shallow  pan. 

Another  cake  of  the  same  sort  can  be  made  by 
mixing  fruit  in  the  sponge  ginger-bread,  No. 
220. 


MENU  NO.  XLVI.— BREAKFAST. 


504r-Stewed  Kabbit. 

1  rabbit 

1  slice  of  salt  pork. 

1  teaspoonful  of  minced  onion. 

Black  pepper  and  salt. 

Flour  thickening. 

Cut  the  rabbit  in  pieces,  according  to  its  size, 
and  let  them  lie  in  cold  water  overnight.  Put 
on  in  the  morning  with  enough  to  cover,  and  let 
stew  until  tender — about  two  hours,  unless  the 
rabbit  happens  to  be  young.  Toward  the  latter 
part  of  the  time  out  the  pork  in  small  pieces, 
and  put  in,  and  the  onion.  Season  with  a  tea- 
spoonful of  mixed  pepper  and  salt,  and  thicken 
with  a  spoonful  of   flour  stirred  up  with  water. 


505— Hamburg  Steak, 

1  pound  of  beef. 

1  clove  of  garlic,  minced. 

1  teaspoonful  of  minced  onion. 

1^  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper. 

Same  of  salt. 

Chop  the  beef  like  sausage  meat,  with  one- 
fourth  fat  to  three-fourths  lean.  Add  the 
seasonings.  Make  it  up  in  balls,  tlatten  out  to 
thin  cakes,  dust  with  flour  on  both  aidea  and  fry 
in  a  frying  pan  with  a  little  drippings. 


506— tyonaise  Potatoes, 

Lyonaise  potatoes  are  cold  boiled  potatoes 
sliced  in  a  frying-pan,  and  browned  with  a  little 
minced  onion  mixed  with  the  drippings.  But, 
on  account  of  the  very  general  objection  to 
onions,  at  least  among  business  people,  the  name 
of  lyonaise  is  often  given  to  the  plain  article, 
that  is,  to  cold  potatoes  fried  more  or  less  brown, 
in  a  little  fat  in  a  frying-pan  without  the  onions. 
Other  restaurant  names  for  this  favorite  way  of 
cooking  potatoes  are  sauteed  and  Dutch  fried. 


96 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


507— Oujelet  with  Onions  mid  Parsley. 

Slice  a  small  onion  aa  thin  aa  possible  and  fry 
it  in  a  small  frying-pan  with  a  spoonful  of  lard 
and  a  plate  inverted  over  it  to  hasten  the  cooking 
•without  getting  the  onion  brown.  Chop  a  spoon- 
ful ot  parsley 

Mix  2  eggs  with  a  tablespoonf  ul  of  milk  and 
pinch  of  salt  and  the  parsley,  and  pour  it  into 
the  omelet  frying-pan,  already  greased  with  a 
spoonful  ot  clear  butter,  and  set  it  over  the  fire 
Drain  the  cooked  onion  away  from  the  grease, 
strew  it  over  the  omelet,  shake  the  pan  to  keep 
the  omelet  loose  from  the  edges,  and  when  it  is 
nearly  set  in  tlie  middle  roll  it,  and  dish  with  tbe 
smooth  side  up. 


508— Yeast-Raised    Batter     Cakes,    Without 

Egss. 
1  heaping  cupful  of  flour. 

1  cupful  of  water  or  milk. 
1.^  cupful  of  yeast 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  lard. 
Same  of  syrup. 

Little  salt. 

Mix  all  together,  the  same  as  setting  sponge 
for  bread,  either  with  cold  water  over  night,  the 
batter  to  be  set  in  a  warm  place  in  the  morning 
to  rise  for  breakfast,  or  else  four  or  five  hours 
before  the  meal  with  warm  water  or  millc  Beat 
well,  the  more  the  better,  both  at  the  time  of 
mixing  and  just  before  baking. 


MENU  NO.  XLVII.— BUSINESS  LUNCH. 


509-Ox  Tail  Soup. 

33^  quarts  of  soup  stock. 

1  ox  tail. 

1  small  carrot. 

1  turnip. 

1  onion. 

Celery,  bay  leaf,  cloves,  salt  and  pepper. 

Make  the  stock  by  boiling  a  beef  shank  in  6 
quarts  of  water  several  hours,  until  it  is  reduced 
one-half 

While  the  stock  is  boiling  take  a  carrot,  turnip, 
onion  and  stalk  of  celery,  and,  with  any  kind  of  a 
round  cutter  or  an  apple-corer  and  knife,  cut 
enough  lozenge  shapes  to  fill  a  cup  with  the 
mixed  sorts.  Throw  a  few  of  the  remaining 
scraps  mto  the  boiling  stock  for  seasoning,  and 
J^  a  bay  leaf  and  3  cloves. 

Saw  the  ox  tail  into  thin  round  slices  and 
steep  them  an  hour  in  cold  water  The  ox  tail 
must  stew  at  least  2  or  3  hours  to  be  eatable  and 
so  far  dissolved  as  to  enrich  the  soup,  aud  it 
may  be  done  either  in  the  stock  boiler,  and  the 
pieces  picked  out  afterward  lo  go  in  the  soup 
plates,  or  may  be  stewed  in  some  of  the  stock  in 
a  separate  saucepan,  whichever  may  be  most 
convenient. 

At  last  strain  the  specified  amount  of  stock 
clear  into  the  soup  pot.  Boil  the  shapes  of 
vegetables  in  water  by  themselves  %  hour,  then 


drain  off  and  put  them  into  the  soup,  also  the  ox 
tail  slices.  Add  brown  butter  and  flour  thick- 
ening in  small  quantity,  let  the  soup  simmer 
slowly  until  it  becomes  smooth  and  clear  again, 
and  sldm  until  all  the  fat  is  removed.  Season 
with  salt  and  cayenne. 

Serve  a  slice  or  two  of  the  ox  tail  and  some  of 
the  vegetables  in  each  plate. 


When  a  soup  like  the  foregoing  has  not  a 
clear  syrup-like  sort  of  thickness  or  body,  but  is 
dull,  like  flour  gravy  it  may  he  cleared  by 
longer  simmering  and  adding  more  stock  with 
some  cold  tomato  juice,  or  lemon  juice,  or  even 
cold  water,  and  skimming  from  the  side. 

If  not  already  light  brown  add  a  spoonful  ot 
burnt  sugar  caramel. 


510— Oysters  and  Macaroni— Milanaise. 

A  third  of  a  package  of  macaroni — 5  ounces. 

1  cupful  of  oysters — 3  dozen. 

3^  cupful  of  butter — 3  ounces. 

1  cupful  of  milk — 3^  pint. 

legg. 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

Pepper  aud  salt. 

Boil  the  macaroni  by  itself  first,  throwing  it 
into  water  that  is  already  boiling  and  salted. 
Let  it  cook  only  twenty  minutes,  then  drain  it 
dry.  Butter  the  bottom  of  a  baking  or  pudding 
pan  that  will  hold  three  pints.  Put  in  half  the 
macaroni,  strew  the  oysters  over  it,  drop  in  the 
butter  in  small  pieces,  dredge  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  cover  with  the  rest  of  the  macaroni. 
Mix  the  spoonful  of  flour  with  a  little  milk, 
beat  in  the  egg,  then  the  i  est  of  the  milk,  and 
oyster  liquor,  if  any ;  pour  it  into  the  pan,  and 
bake  until  it  is  set,  or  about  twenty  minutes. 


511— Broiled  Guinea  Fowl. 

Prepare  young  guinea  fowls  like  young  chick- 
ens for  broiling ;  use  the  old  ones  in  pies  and 
stews.  Split  them  down  the  back,  draw,  wash, 
wipe  dry  and  flatten  them  with  a  stroke  of  the 
cleaver  on  the  back.  Pepper  and  salt  on  both 
sides,  dip  them  in  flour  and  place  them  on  the 
gridiron.  While  they  are  broiling  brush  them 
over  with  a  brush  dipped  in  butter.  They  re- 
quire about  fifteen  minutes  to  cook.  Serve  with 
potatoes  and  butter  gravy  in  the  dish. 


SIS- Chicken  Fie,  Plain. 

When  chicken  pie  or  any  similar  dish  is  writ- 
ten in  a  menu  as  of  some  partiular  style,  it,  ot 
course,  carries  the  implication  that  there  ara 
more  ways  than  one.  A  very  small  variation  or 
addition  ot  vegetables,  mushrooms  01  eggs  and 
wine  may  suffice  to  change  the  name  It  ii  only 
necessary  to  say  here  that  one  way  by  which 
young  chickens,  squirrels,  rabbits,  etc.,  are 
partly  fried  in  butter  before  being  covered  with 
a  crust,  and  the  gravy  in  the  pan  is  made  rich 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL 


97 


and  light  browD,  may  be  found  detailed  at  No. 
209,  for  pigeon  pie,  and  the  following  is  the 
other  principal  method,  or  country  stylo: 

1  large  fowl  or  2  chickens. 

1  slice  of  fat  salt  pork — 3  ounces. 

1  large  potato. 

1  teaspoonful  of  minced  onion. 

1  of  black  pepper 

1  of  salt. 

1  pound  of  pie  cruat 

2  tablespoonfuia  of  flour. 
A  little  parsley 

The  salt  pork  is  only  a  seasoning,  aud  may  be 
dispensed  with  or  substituted  with  butter. or  the 
tat  of  the  fowls. 

Cut  the  fowl  in  6  pieces  if  large,  first  divid- 
ing it  in  half  through  the  back  and  breast,  chop 
each  side  m  three,  taking  a  piece  out  between 
the  leg  and  the  wing.  Cook  the  gizzard  and 
heart  with  the  fowl,  but  leave  out  the  liver, 
which  is  apt  to  impart  its  flavor  to  the  whole 
dish.  Boil  the  meat  till  tender,  which  may  take 
anywhere  from  1  hour  to  4,  according  to  the 
kind  of  fowl.  It  does  not  make  much  difference 
how  old  the  fowl  is  if  it  be  boiled  accordingly 
vith  the  seasonings  added.  It  will  make  the 
liquor  rich  as  jelly  after  a  while. 

Half  an  hour  before  taking  the  fowl  from  the 
fire  put  in  the  potato,  cut  in  pieces,  and  after- 
ward thicken  the  liquor  with  flour  and  water  and 
mix  in  some  chopped  parsley. 

Turn  it  into  a  baking  pan,  dredge  a  little  more 
black  pepper  over  the  top  and  a  little  flour  over 
that,  then  cover  with  plain  pie  paste  and  bake  it 
X  hour. 

513-Clder  Punch. 

1  bottle  of  "champagne"  cider. 
1  cupful  of  sugar. 

1  of  sherry. 

2  lemons. 

y^  cupful  of  water. 

Mix  the  sugar,  water  and  wine  together  in  a 
pitcher,  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
slice  in  the  lemons  as  for  lemonade,  put  in  a 
lump  of  ice,  and  then  fill  up  with  cider. 


MENU    NO     XLVIII. 


Church  Festival  Dishes. 

Among  all  the  associations  that  have  been 
formed  for  the  amelioration  of  the  condition  of 
the  human  race,  is  it  nol  wonderful  that  there 
has  never  yet  appeared  a  '  Society  for  the  Im- 
provement of  the  Quality  ot  Church  Festival 
Suppers .' "  This,  oi  course,  would  embrace  all 
similar  affairs  gotten  up  tor  the  purpose  ol  rais- 
ing money,  such  as  lor  buying  books 
for  the  library,  furnishing  the  Lyceum 
Hall,  buying  instruments  tor  the  brass  band, 
buying  uniforms  for  the  fire  company,  or  for  the 
benefit  of  some  unfortunate  and  worthy  object 
of  compassion  and  charity     These  affairs  are 


taking  place  too  frequently  and  too  constantly  to 
be  ignored  by  any  one  who  is  at  all  interested  in 
the  subjecv  of  cookery  No  doubt  but,  if  they 
were  set  at  regular  intervals  apart,  one  or  more 
such  festival  takes  place  for  every  hour  in  the 
year,  and  so  far  as  the  cooking  ot  dishes  is  in- 
volved, there  is  nothing  needs  improvement  so 
much.  The  writer  has  had  something  to  do  with 
scores,  perhaps  hundreds,  of  them,  either  directly 
or  indirectly,  either  willingly  or  otherwise,  and 
this  desoript  on  of  the  very  latest  will  nearly  fit 
the  culinary  management  of  them  all. 

The  parties  interested  procure  the  use  of  a 
vacant  store  and  divide  themselves  into  commit- 
tees, and  the  Supper  Committee  subdivides  into 
a  committee  to  cook  the  oysters,  a  committee  to 
procure  and  put  up  the  stove,  another  to  pre- 
pare sandwiches,  another  cakes,  another  pickles 
and  preserves,  another  the  ice-cream,  the  coffee, 
and  so  forth  Some  of  the  articles  are  to  be 
made  at  the  members'  own  houses,  in  the  places 
and  with  the  ulensils  they  are  accustomed  to, 
and  that  part  goes  on  well.  A  candy  maker, 
who  is  a  member,  offers,  it  they  will 
furnish  the  sugar,  to  make  the  candy, 
this  is  done,  and  that  part  goes 
well ,  and  there  is  a  person  who  thipks  it  will  be 
good  fun  to  sell  the  candy,  and  goeSjand  borrows 
a  glass  show-case  and  scales  and  weights,  with- 
out wailing  to  be  appointed  a  committee;  so 
that  goes  well  too.  But  not  so  with  the  cooking. 
It  is  a  poor  festival  that  will  not  have  a  h  iin- 
dred  visitors,  and  perhaps  there  will  be  twice 
that  many.  They  all  come  with  the  special  in- 
tention of  eating  oysters,  if  it  be  in  the  oyster 
seasoh,  and  the  managers  always  undertake  to 
cook  for  them  on  one  rusty  little  old  castaway 
stove  that  is  not  really  large  enough  to  do  the 
cooking  for  a  family 

The  committee  finds  the  stove  in  a  woodshed 
where  they  are  directed  on  the  morning  of  the 
festival  day,  but  never  can  find  all  the  stove  pipe, 
and  by  the  time  the  missing  joint  or  elbow  is 
finally  put  in  place  it  is  pretty  well  along  in  the 
afternooa  The  different  committee,  drop  in  to 
see  whether  each  other  has  arrived  and  then 
drop  out  again  until,  about  sunset,  the  commit- 
tee on  setting  the  tables  grows  anxious  and  sets 
the  coffee  boiler  on  the  fire.  Then  a  spectator 
asks  what  time  they  will  have  the  oysters  ready, 
and  somebody  sets  on  the  tin  pail  full  of  milk, 
but  as  the  stove  is  too  small  to  hold  both,  the 
coffee-pot  has  to  be  set  back  against 
the  stove-pipe,  oi-,  perhaps,  on  the  hearth  in 
trout.  Then  the  committee  on  oysters  comes  in 
and  seem  surprised;  says  that  somebody  said 
tliere  was  plenty  of  help,  and  there  was  no  need 
to  come  any  earlier,  but  proceeded  at  once  to 
fill  th6  stove  with  chips  and  the  fat  rind  of  the 
sandwich  ham,  and  ten  minutes  later  a'.l  the 
milk  they  have  in  the  house  is  scorched  on  the 
bottom,  and  tastes  of  it.  Bat  it  has  to  go  in  all 
the  same,  and  in  go  the  oysters.     Before  many 


98 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


dishes  of  stewed  oysters  have  gone  in  the  ques- 
tion is  asked  more  and  more  frequently 
whether  oysters  cannot  be  had  in  other 
ways  beside  stewed  and  raw,  and  at  last  there 
is  a  determined  demand  for  fried,  and  the  com- 
mittee answers  yes,  they  can  have  them  in  a  few 
luiiiutea.  Then  some  one  discovers  that  the 
coffee  has  never  been  put  in  and  the  water  does 
not  boil;  but  it  is  hot  and  the  coffee  is  stirred  in, 
the  oyster  stew  kettle  or  pail  is  set  on  the  iloor, 
the  coffee-pot  is  put  in  the  hottest  place  for  three 
minutes,  then  fifteen  or  twenty  waiting  cups  are 
fiiUed,  the  coffee  still  floating  on  top  of  the  water 
because  not  cooked,  being  held  back  with  a  spoon. 
Meantime  a  skillet  has  been  found,  a  spoonful 
of  grease  is  put  in  it,  and  it  is  set  over 
the  fire.  Sjmebody  rolls  a  few  oyster 
crackers  on  the  table  with  a  bottle,  partly  crush- 
ing them,  but  there  is  ueither  eeive  nor  rolling- 
piu  in  the  house.  The  oysters  are  rolled  over  in 
the  crushed  crackers  and  the  slallei  is  half  filled 
with  them.  They  are  then  stirred  about  with  a 
spoon,  like  so  much  cold  sliced  potatoes  or  hash 
being  warmed  up,  and  sent  in  a  mess  of  grease, 
crackers  and  oysters  jumbled  together  Some- 
body ventures  to  ask  whether  they  would  not 
have  been  better  dipped  m  egg  first,  and  the 
committee  answers  that  it  would  have  been  too 
much  trouble  and  take  too  much  time,  and  that 
they  could  not  afford  the  eggs  any  way— which  is 
quite  true,  and  eggs  are  not  necessary  to  fry  oys- 
ters properly,  as  we  will  show  further  oil  While 
this  has  been  going  on,  the  discovery  has  been 
made  that  the  oyster  stew  is  all  gone,  except 
some  quarts  of  the  liquor,  but  there  are  no  oys- 
ters in  it,  and  half  the  tables  have  not  been 
served  yet;  so  the  oyster  pail  goes  on  the  fire 
again  and  some  raw  oysters  in  it  Tnere  ia  too 
much  clamor  for  more  for  it  to  be  allowed  to 
boil  again;  besides,  some  half  dozen  persons  or 
more  must  have  some  tea,  and  there  is  no  tea 
and  no  committee  on  tea.  But  the  water  must 
be  hurried  to  boil  and  the  oyster  frymg 
must  KO  on,  so  the  stew  is  pii.shed  back  and  is 
dialled  up  with  the  oysters  neither  cooked  nor 
raw,  but  warm  and  repulsive. 

We  "set  down  naught  in  malice,''  and  will  not 
ask  how  the  people  at  the  tables  like  the  pupper, 
nor  what  motives,  whether  of  policy  or  benevo- 
lence, they  have  for  paying  to  partake  ot  it,  but 
supposing  the  desire  all  around  is  to  have  the 
supper  good,  we  merely  describe  the  disorder 
before  pointing  out  our  part  of  the  remedy,  and 
would  suggest,  first,  that  al  every  festival  of  the 
kind  where  any  cooking,  coffee-making  or  dish- 
washing is  to  be  done,  there  should  be  two  stoves 
at  least,  and  plenty  of  boiling  water  ready 
for  all  purposes  in  a  reservoir,  or  some  vessel 
that  cannot  be  emptied  and  taken  tor  another 
purpose ;  second,  borrow  all  the  kitchen  tables 
that  there  is  room  to  place,  or  that  can  possibly 
be  used  for  setting  dishes  on,  for  provisions  and 
for  cooking  operations— the  dining-room  and  its 


tables  will  take  care  of  themselves ;  third,  have  it 
positively  decided  beforehand  what  is  to  be 
cooked,  and  in  what  way,  and  then  provide  both 
the  necessary  materials  and  the  proper  utensils; 
fourth,  make  the  closest  estimate  possible  of  the 
quantities  required,  based  upon  the  guide 
recipes  here  appended,  and  have  it  understood 
where  more  oysters,  more  milk,  butter,  coffee, 
ice,  salt,  fruit,  bread,  etc..  can  be  procured  if 
needed,  and  who  is  to  go  for  them,  and,  fifth, 
set  some  one  to  cook  oysters,  at  least,  who  has 
haa  experience  of  larger  demands  than  those  of 
a  family  table. 

51<t-Oyster  Stew  for  Fifty. 

A  quart  of  small  oysters  bulk,  "solid  meat,' 
contains  t5  dozen. 

A  quart  of  selects,  bulk,  "solid  meat,"  contains 
4  to  i}{  dozen. 

A  canof  selects  contains  SJ^  dozen,  generally. 

The  ordinary  conventional  oyster  stew,  such  as 
people  expect  to  receive  when  it  is  cooked  to 
order,  is  a  pint  bowl  nearly  full,  consisting  of  1 
dozen  oysters  and  1  or  IJ^  cups  of  milk,  or  milk 
aud  oyster  liquor. 

To  serve  this  according  to  the  letter  a  pint  o( 
small  oysters  should  be  sufficient  for  4  stews  or 
a  can  of  selects  for  S}{  or  4;  but  as  the  stews  for 
a  large  number  are  dipped  up  and  guessed  there 
is  always  a  discrepauoy,  and  a  pint  can  only  be 
relied  upon  for  3  diahea,  though  a  pint  ot  selects 
may  hold  out  on  account  of  their  larger  size. 

Proceeding  on  those  calculations  provide  for 
50  stews: 

9  quarts  of  small  oysters,  or  13  or  13  quarts  of 
selects,  or  14  or  15  cans  of  selects. 

1}.{  gallons  of  milk. 

3^  gallon  of  oyster  liquor  or  water. 

1  pound  of  fresh  butter. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  salt. 

Set  the  milk  on  in  good  time  that  it  may  heat 
gradually  and  not  burn,  and  put  in  the  required 
amount  of  salt,  which  also  helps  to  prevent 
burning.  A  thick  metal  pot  is  better  thau  a  thin 
tin  pail  for  such  a  purpose.  As  to  measures, 
it  may  be  remembered  that  a  commou 
wooden  pail  holds  2}4  gallons  or  10  quarts. 
Never  cook  oysters  and  milk  both  together  from 
the  first. 

If  it  can  be  done  conveniently,  instead  of  set- 
ting the  oysters  over  tne  fire  aa  they  are.  to  heat 
up  gradually,  and  some  to  cook  and  shrink  to 
nothing  before  others  are  fairly  warm,  and  prob- 
ably to  burn  on  the  bottom  besides,  drain  them 
in  a  sieve  or  colander,  and  pour  a  quart  of  boil- 
ing water  over  them.  The  liquor  will  then  run 
through  abundantly.  Set  it  on  tlje  fire,  boil  and 
skim,  then  put  the  oysters  in  and  add  the  boiling 
milk.  Drop  in  the  butter  and  take  the  kettle  of 
oyster  stow  off  the  fire  aud  do  not  let  it  boil  any 
more. 

For  oyster  soup,  made  with  half  as  many  oys- 
ters, see  No.  270. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


99 


515— Oysters  Fried  Without  Eggs. 

Mix  oraoker-meal  and  flour  together,  about 
half  and  half,  but  the  cracker-meal  rather  the 
larger.  If  none  to  be  bought  at  the  stores  crush 
oyster  crackers  and  put  them  through  a  flour 
aeive. 

Have  some  milk  in  a  shallow  dish. 

Dip  the  oysters  out  of  their  own  liquor  into 
the  mixed  meal  and  flour,  out  of  that  into  the 
milk,  then  into  the  mixture  again.  It  does  no 
harm  to  let  them  lie  a  while  before  frying. 
Handle  carefully,  not  to  nib  any  of  the  coating 
off,  as  it  will  not  adhere  a  second  time. 

Have  enough  lard  very  hot  in  a  dee^J  pan  to 
quite  cover  the  oysters.  Drop  in  a  few  at  a  time, 
fry  3  to  4  minutes,  take  out  with  a  skimmer  when 
light  brown  and  drain  free  from  grease  before 
sending  them  in. 

The  milk  causes  them  to  fry  to  the  same  fine 
browu  color  as  if  eggs  were  used.  If  they  are 
quite  immersed  and  fried  quickly  in  lard  that  is 
hissing  hot,  they  come  out  crisp  and  dry  ret  full 
of  the  juice  of  the  oyster.  If  simmered  in  lard 
that  13  only  half  deep  enough  the  breading  peels 
off  like  so  much  greasy  pudding. 

It  is  useless  to  try  to  hurry  up  a  large  quan- 
tity by  filling  the  pan  too  full:  that  must  be  done 
by  having  more  pans  or  deeper  ones  and  more 
hot  lard.  It  does  quite  as  well  to  put  a  deep  pan 
of  lard  iuside  the  oven  and  fry  them  that  way 
when  the  top  of  the  stove  is  otherwise  oocunied. 
For  the  sake  of  an  estimate  it  may  be  calculated 
that  two  ounces  of  lard  will  be  used  for  every 
dozen  oysters  fried — not  that  it  will  be  all  gone, 
but  it  becomes  black  with  sediment  and  foul 
with  the  gelatine  of  the  oysters  and  has  to  be  re- 
newed. 


516-Clam  B^itters  Without  Eges. 
Take  fresh  clams  and  their  liquor  in  a  separate 
pan  and  bread  them  in  a  mixture  of  cracker 
meal  and  flour,  as  directed  for  fried  oysters  in 
the  preceding  article.  Dip  the  clams,  however, 
in  the  meal  mixture  4  times,  giving  them  four 
coats,  three  of  them  with  their  own  liquor,  and 
the  last  dip  in  milk  before  the  cracker-meal. 
Glam  fritters  are  better  made  this  way  than  with 


517  -Clam  Chowder, 

2  cupf  uls  of  clams,  or  a  can. 
A  slice  of  salt  pork — 6  ounces. 
4  cupfuls  of  sliced  raw  potatoes. 
J.^  cupful  of  sliced  onion. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

14  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

2  cupfuls  of  milk  and  the  clam  liquor. 
1  cupful  of  broken  crackers. 

Cut  the  pork  small,  put  it  m  a  pan  that  will 
hold  over  2  quarts' and  baiieor  fry  it  light  brown. 
Put  the  potatoes,  onions  and  clams  on  too 
of      the    fried     pork     in     layers,       add    the 


milk  and  clam  liquor  with  the  seasoning  in, 
the  crushed  crackers  on  top,  and  bake  until  the 
potatoes  are  done,  or  over  an  hour.  The  sur- 
face should  be  moistened  with  spoonfuls  of  the 
liquor  and  a  greased  paper  laid  ou  top  to  pre- 
vent burning. 


518— Boiled  Ham. 

A  ham  that  weighs  14  pounds  as  bought  raw 
will  weigh  only  13  pounds  after  boiling,  and  will 
yield  9  pounds  of  meat  to  slice.  A -plate  of 
ham  is  about  4  ounces.  A  14-pound  ham  may  be 
expected  ti  make  about  forty  plates. 


519— Ham  Sandwiches. 

About  1  ounce  of  ham  is  enough  for  a  large 
biscuit  sandwich  for  a  party,  and  3  ounces  for 
the  larger  sort,  made  with  baker's  rods,  for  sale 
at  lunch  counters.  A  ham  that  weighs  14 
pounds  raw  will  make  about  140  of  the  festival 
sandwiches  or  75  for  lunch  counters.  Another 
way  besides  slicing  the  ham  for  sandwiches  is  to 
take  the  pieces  that  will  not  make  good  alices 
for  the  plates  and  chop  fine,  season  with  pepper 
and  warm  butter  and  a  little  made  mustard,  and 
spread  the  mince  between  the  split  biscuits. 

530— Baliing-Powder  Biscuits. 

Not  long  since  we  witnessed  what  seemed 
a  somewhat  odd  proceeding— the  sending  of 
a  sample  of  baking-powder  biscuits 
from  one  friend  to  another  some 
fifty  miles  away  as  a  present.  They  were  daintily 
packed  in  a  delicate  fringed  napkin,  in  a  dainty 
little  basket,  and  were  sent  carefully  by  rail. 
Just  biscuits!  But  these  were  almost  as  good  as 
fine  rolls ;  they  were  cut  out  rather  large,  just  right 
for  church  fair  sandwiches ;  they  were  white,  fine 
grained,  soft  and  flaky,  and,  come  to  think  of  it, 
what  with  the  seiting  aside  of  the  yeast-raised 
breads,  and  the  growing  forgetfuluess  of  how  to  • 
make  them,  and  the  misrepresentations  of  the 
baking-powder  makers,  really  fine  biscuits,  are 
getting  to  be  scarcer  than  diamonds,  and  are 
rising  in  value  accordingly.  If  things  keep 
growing  worse  in  the  domestic  bread  line  a  few 
years  longer,  Christmas  cards  will  go  out  of 
fashion  and  people  will  pay  high  prices  for  the 
few  fine  biscuits  that  will  be  attainable  and  send 
them  as  presents  instead.  This  mischief  is 
caused  by  the  baking-powder  manufacturers 
saying  that  two,  or  even  one,  teaspoonful  of 
powder  is  enough  for  a  q  uart  of  flor.r,  and  as 
most  people  use  only  a  level  teaspoonful,  or  at 
most  only  slightly  rounded,  it  ha-i  no  perceptible 
effect  at  all  and  the  biscuits  are  dreadful.  If  bis- 
cuits are  wanted  that  will  do  to  send  as  Christ- 
mas presents  you  must  use  three  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  the  best  powder  in  the  market.  Of 
course  it  is  expensive.     Baldng-powder   bread  is 


100 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


the  dearest  in  the  world.  But  this  is  the  way  to 
make  it  good: 

1  pound  or  quart  of  flour. 

Lard  size  of  an  egg,  melted ;  or  4  tablespoon- 
fula. 

3  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

1  small  teaapoonful  of  salt 

3  cupfuls  of  water  or  milk. 

Mix  the  powder  in  the  flour  dry.  Place  the 
melted  lard  in  a  hollow  in  the  middle,  the  salt 
and  water  or  milk  with  that,  and  stir  around, 
drawing  the  flour  in  gradually,  so  as  to  make  a 
smooth,  soft  dough.  Turn  out  on  the  floured 
table.  Press  the  dough  out  flat  with  the  hands, 
fold  it  over  again  and  again,  and  press  out  till 
it  is  compact,  even  and  smooth.  Let  stand  5 
minutes.  Boll  out  and  cut  into  biscuits.  Bake 
15  minutes. 


531— To  Make  Baklne  Powder, 

3  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar. 
1  teaspoonful  baking  soda. 
1  teaspoonful  corn  starch. 
Mix  all  together  by  sifting  and  it  is  ready  for 
use. 


533— Plain,  Sweet  Buns,  Made  Withont  Egcs. 

2  large  cupfuls  of  light  bread  dough — 1  pound. 
Butter  or  lard  size  of  an  egg — 3  ounces. 

3  heaping  tablespoonf  uls  of  sugar — 3  ounces. 
Extract  of  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  to  flavor. 
Take  the  light  dough  from  the  bread  pan  at 

about  noon  and  work  in  the  butter,  sugar  and 
flavoring.  Let  stand  an  hour;  then  knead  thor- 
oughly, observing  the  directions  already  several 
times  elsewhere  repeated,  to  spread  and  pound 
the  dough  with  the  flsts,  and  fold  over  and  repeat 
till  the  dough  is  full  of  air  bubbles,  silky-looking 
and  elastic. 

At  i  o'clock  knead  again,  mold 
into  round  balls,  flatten  them  slightly 
as  you  place  them  in  the  pan,  and  touch  each 
side  with  melted  lard  if  they  are  likely  to  touch 
each  other,  for  the  lard  prevents  sticking  to- 
gether. Rise  an  hour  in  the  pan,  bake  about 
SO  minutes.  Brush  them  over  tbe  tops  with 
syrup  when  done,  and  dredge  granulated  sugar 
upon  thenL 

533  -MerinfiTue  Cakes. 

Bake  sheets  of  cake  in  large  pans — Nos.  36  and 
332  are  good  kinds  of  cake— and  cover  them 
with  meringue  or  frosting  made  as  for  star 
kisses,  which  has  more  sugar  than  that  for  frost- 
ing lemon  pies,  and  consequently  is  firmer  to 
cut.  Bake  the  meringue  very  gently  with  the 
oven  door  open,  and  slip  a  board  under  the  pan 
to  keep  the  caUe  from  baking  too  much  on  the 
bottom.     Cut  the  cake  in  squares  when  done. 

Granulated  sugar  sifted  over  the  top  of  the 
frosting  before  baking  gives  it  a  finer  glazed 
Burface. 


534— Strawberry  Shortcake. 

It  is  a  cake  of  short  paste,  not  sweet,  as  large 
as  a  dinner  plate  and  thick  as  a  biscuit,  split  in 
two  after  baking,  strawberries  and  sugar  spread 
on  the  lower  half,  the  other  placed  on 
top  with  the  split  side  upward  and 
more  berries  spread  upon  that.  It  is 
eaten  with  cream.    The  ingredients  required  are : 

1  cupful  of  lard  or  butter — 8  ounces. 

3  cupfuls  of  flour — 12  ounces. 

i4  teaspoonful  of  salt 

1  cupful  of  ice  water. 

1  quart  of  strawberries. 

1  cupful  of  sugar — 8  ounces. 

Pick  the  stems  from  the  berries  before  making 
the  paste,  also  mix  the  sugar  with  them  by  shak- 
ing about  and  set  them  in  a  cool  nlace. 

Eub  the  butter  into  tbe  flour  thoroughly  with 
the  hands.  Salt  is  needed  only  when  lard  is 
uaed.  Make  a  hollow  in  the  middle,  pour  in  tlie 
water,  mix  up  sott,  roll  out  on  the  table  in  flour 
reserved  for  the  purpose.  It  makes  the  cake 
flaky  and  part  in  layers  to  roll  it  and  fold  it  a 
few  times  like  pie  paste. 

Then  make  it  up  round,  let  stand  five  minutes, 
roll  out  thick  as  biscuit  and  bake  on  a  jelly-cake 
pan.     Finish  with  fruit  as  above  stated. 


535--Gemian  Coffee  Cake. 

Make  the  sweetened  light  dough  the  same  as 
for  buns  at  No.  533,  and  at  4  o'clock,  instead  of 
making  it  into  round  buns  roll  it  out  very  thin — 
not  thicker  than  a  pencil — then  take  upon  the 
rolling-pin  and  unroll  it  on  a  large  baking-pan. 
Brush  over  the  surface  with  a  spoonful  of  lard 
melted  in  hot  water,  to  prevent  a  cruse  drying 
on  top,  and  let  it  rise  an  hour.  Before  setting 
the  light  cake  in  the  oven  mark  it  with  cuts  of  a 
knife  point  to  prevent  puffing  up.  Bake  ten 
minutes.  Brush  over  as  soon  as  done  with 
syrup  and  sift  mixed  powdered  sugar  and 
ground  cinnamon  all  over  it.     Cut  in  squares. 


536— German  Susar  Tops. 

Eich  cookies  sprinkled  with  gravel  sugar. 

1  cupful  of  sugar — 8  ounces. 

}{  cupful  of  butter,  large— 4  ounces. 

3  eggs. 

J^  cupful  of  milk. 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

4  cupfuls  of  flour — 1  pound. 

Work  the  softened  butter  and  sugar  together 
to  a  cream,  the  same  as  for  pound  cake,  beat  the 
eggs  and  mix  them  in,  then  the  milk,  and  the 
flour  with  the  powder  mixed  in  it  Keep  the 
dough  as  soft  as  it  can  be  handled.  After  it  has 
been  pressed  and  worked  smooth  on  the  table 
let  it  alone  a  few  minutes  before  rolling  out, 
then  the  cakes  will  not  draw  out  of  shape  when 
cut 

While  they  are  baking  mix  an  egg  and  some 
syrup  together  in  a  cup,  add  some  flavoring 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


101 


extract,  brush  the  hot  cakes  over  with  it  and 
dredge  gravel  sugar  on  top. 

Gravel  sugar  is  loaf  sugar  crushed  and  the 
dust  sifted  away,  then  again  sifted  in  a  colander. 
The  sugar  that  parses  through  the  holes  of  the 
colander  is  gravel  sugar. 

527-Cofleo  for  a  Festival. 

1  half  pint  cupful  of  ground  coffee  shaken  in 
and  heaped  up  is  4  ounces. 

4  ounces  of  ground  coffee  makes  8  half  pints 
or  10  cups,  as  they  are  commonly  filled,  of  good 
quality. 

1  pound  of  coffee  makes  3  gallons  or   40  cups 
3  teaspoonfula  of  sugar  on  an  average  is  used 

to  sweeten  a  cup  of  ooffe. 

3  teaapoonfuls  is  an  ounce. 

2}4  pounds  of  sugar,  or  40  ounces,  is  required 
for  every  pound  of  coffee,  or  forty  cups. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  on  an  average,  is 
required  to  each  cup  of  coffee. 

14  tablespoonfuls  make  J^  pint. 

1}',2  or  2  pints  of  cream  is  enough  for  every 
pound  of  coffee,  or  40  cups ;  provided,  however, 
the  cream  be  served  in  individual  small  pitchers. 


528— Ice  Cream  and  Stx^wberries. 

Four  quarts  of  cream  is  sufficient  for  fifty  com- 
mon plates  of  ice  cream.  It  will  increase  to  six 
quarts  in  bulk  if  properly  frozen,  and  there 
should  be  room  in  the  freezer  accordingly.  A 
little  difference  will  be  found  in  amount  re- 
quired when  berries  are  served  in  the  same  plate. 

Strawberries  generally  are  improved  by  being 
covered  with  sugar  some  hours  before  they  are 
to  be  used,  and  set  in  a  cold  place  to  form  their 
own  syrup. 

Eecipes  for  making  different  kmds  of  ice  cream 
and  frozen  custards  may  be  found  by  reference 
to  the  index. 

MENU  NO.  XLIX.— BREAKFAST. 


539— FresU  Strawberrie 

If  you  have  fine  freshly  gathered  strawberries 
properly  clipped  off  with  an  inch  of  the  stalk 
attached  do  not  pick  them  over,  but  serve  as  they 
are,  with  powdered  sugar  in  very  small  glass 
bowls  set  at  each  plate.  But  strawberries  that 
are  to  be  served  from  a  bowl  and  with,  cream  are 
generally  the  better  if  covered  with  powdered 
sugar  and  set  on  ice  some  time  before  the  meal. 


530-  Soft  Shell  Crabs,  Fried. 

Every  part  of  a  soft  shell  crab  is  eatable,  shell, 
claws  and  all  except  the  sand  scraper,  which  pnll 
off  and  wash  the  crab  and  dry  it.  Breaa  it  in 
the  usual  manner,  by  dipping  in  egg  in  which  a 
small  proportion  of  water  has  been  beaten,  then 
in  cracker-meal.  Drop  it  into  a  saucepan  of  hot 
lard  or  oil  and  fry  light  brown  in  about  ten 
minutes.  Mayonaise  sauce  may  be  served  at  the 
side  separately. 


531— Breaded  Teal  Cutlets,  Broiled. 

Cut  thin  chops  of  the  ribs,  scrape  the  end  of 
the  bone  clean  for  about  an  inch,  trim  off  the 
gristle  from  the  broad  end,  flatten  slightly  with 
the  cleaver,  dredge  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip  in 
melted  butter  on  a  plaie,  then  in  bread  crumbs 
minced  extremely  fine,  then  in  the  butter,  then 
in  the  bread  crumbs  agam.  Grease  a  sheet  of 
writing  paper  with  oil  or  butter  and  lay  it  on 
the  gridiron  over  clear  coals  and  the  cutlets 
upon  it,  thus  giving  them  lime  to  get  done  before 
the  breading  is  brown.  Throw  the  paper  away 
at  last  and  finish  the  cutlets  on  the  bars.  Serve 
garnished  with  parsley  and  lemon. 


533~Sauteed  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Slice  cold  steamed  sweet  potatoes  into  a  frying- 
pan  that  has  butter  m  it,  only  just  enough  to 
cover  the  bottoia  When  the  potatoes  have  be- 
come lightly  browned  underneath,  shake  the  pan 
and  toss  them  over.     Dredge  with  salt. 


533— Froffs*  LeiSB  Fricasseed. 

Take  the  frogs  out  of  the  cold  water  they  have 
been  steeping  in,  and,  having  trimmed  away  the 
feet,  place  them  in  a  broad-bottomed  saucepan 
with  a  little  fresh  butter  and  very  little  minced 
shalot,  and  let  them  stew  in  the  butter  until  it 
begins  to  brown,  then  pour  in  half  cup  of  sherry 
or  white  wine,  or  a  little  of  each  (for  a  dozen 
large  frogs  saddles)  and  twice  as  much  hot 
water.  Stew  with  the  lid  on  for  twenty  minutes, 
then  skim  off  moat  of  the  butter  and  add  a  sea- 
soning of  salt  and  cayenne.  Thicken  the  liquor 
with  four  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  with  two  spoon- 
fuls of  cream.  Pour  some  of  the  hot  liquor  to 
the  yolks  before  adding  them  to  the  contents  of 
the  saucepan,  and  take  it  from  the  fire  almost 
immediately,  or  as  soon  as  it  shows  the  first  sign 
of  boiling  again.  Place  the  frogs  in  order  in  the 
dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over  them  through  a 
strainer.  Progs  can  also  be  plainly  stewed  like 
chickens,  without  wine  and  without  the  egg 
thickening. 

534— Toneae  Toast. 

Make  some  thin  slices  of  toast,  cut  them  to  a 
shape  and  cut  off  rough  edges.  Spread  thinly 
with  butter,  then  with  a  layer  of  potted  tongue, 
and  set  in  the  oven  with  the  door  open  for  a  few 
minutes. 


535  -Potted  Tongue. 

Boil  a  corned  tongue  3  hours,  if  a  beef  tongue, 
cr  until  tender.  Dip  it  in  cold  water  and  peel 
off  the  skin.  Cut  up  and  mince  small,  then 
pound  it  to  a  paste.  Melt  two  large  oupf  uls  of  but- 
ter and  prepare  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  ground 
spices,  half  mace  and  the  rest  cloves,  nutmeg 
and  cayenne.  Add  the  spices  to  the  tongue,  and 
a  little  salt  besides,  and  most  of  the  clear  part  of 
the  melted  batter,    and   pound   it  all  together. 


102 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCPIOOL. 


Press  it  into  cups  or  small  jars  tightly  to  exclude 
the  air  and  pour  the  rest  of  the  clear  butter  on 
top.     Keep  covered  in  a  cool  place. 

SSe—Ham  and  lEsss- 

Cut  out  the  meaty  side  of  a  ham,  close  down 
by  the  boue,  all  in  one  piece,  then,  after  shaving 
off  all  the  outside,  cut  it  as  wanted  into  broart 
s.ioes  as  thin  as  they  can  be  cut  with  a  sharp 
knife.  Broil  a  slice  about  four  minutes  over 
clear  coals. 

Break  3  eggs  into  a  small,  deep  dish,  put  a 
teaspoonf  ul  of  clear  melted  lard  into  a  very  small 
frying-pan,  and  before  it  gets  very  hot  pour  in 
the  eggs  without  breaking  the  yolks.  When 
nearly  done,  dexterously  turn  one  half  over  onto 
the  other.  Place  the  broiled  ham  on  a  good- 
sized  dish,  well  up  toward  one  end  of  it,  and  the 
eggs  lying  on  the  edge  of  it  in  the  middle  of  the 
dish. 

537— Finest  Breakfast  Bolls. 

8  level  cupfuls  of  flour— 2  quarts  or  pounds. 
1  full  cup  of  milk — 1<  pint. 
}4  cup  of  yeast,  or  a  compressed  yeaat  cake  dis- 
solved. 
Butter  size  of  an  egg — 2  "ounces. 

1  tablespoonfnl  of  sugar — 1  ounce 

2  yolks  of  eggs. 

J^  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Keep  back  a  cupful  of  the  flour  to  knead  with. 
Sift  7  cupfuls  into  the  bread  pan,  put  all  the 
ingredients  named  info  the  hollow  middle,  the 
butter  melted  first,  and  mix  up  to  soft  dough 
and  knead  it  thoroughly  on  the  table.  Set  it 
away  to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  Before  the  dough 
is  put  back  in  the  pan,  however,  the  pan  should 
be  scraped  clean  and  the  inside  brushed  siightly 
with  melted  lard  or  butter,  and  the  lump  oX 
douRh  rolled  over  in  it  that  the  touch  may  pre- 
vent a  crust  forming,  or  sticking  to  the  pan. 
The  first  thing  in  the  morning,  knead  the  dough 
again,  pounding  and  folding  over  repeatedly, 
then  roll  out  to  a  sheet,  cut  out,  brush  one  side 
of  each  piece  with  melted  butter  and  double 
them  to  form  "pocket-book"  rolls.  Set  to  rise 
for  an  hour  or  longer.     Bake  10  minutes. 


538— Rice  Croquettes. 

3^  cupful  of  rice,  raw— or  3  cups  cooked. 
13^  cupfuls  of  water  and  milk. 
Butter  size  of  a  guinea  egg — an  ounce. 

1  tablespoonfnl  of  sugai'. 

2  yolks,  or  1  egg. 
Nutmeg. 

Put  the  rice  on  to  boil  in  a  measured  cupful  of 
water,  and  when  it  is  half  done  add  J.^  cupful  of 
milk.  It  is  an  object  to  have  the  rice  dry  when 
done,  and  yet  well  cooked.  Keep  the  steam  shut 
in  while  it  is  cooking.  When  soft  enough,  mash 
it  slightly  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  work  in  the 
other  ingredients  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Make  it 
in  shapes,  with  flour  on  the  hands,  like  small 


biscuits,  and  make  a  hollow  in  the  middle  tohold 
a  spoonful  of  jelly.  Having  coated  the  shapes 
well  with  flour,  fry  them  in  a  saucepan  of  hot 
lard.  They  will  do  without  breading  in  egg  and 
cracker  meal.  Put  currant  jelly  in  the  depres- 
sion when  dishing  up. 

539-\Faffle5,   Yeast  Raised. 

To  make  the  cheapest  waffles  without  eggs 
use  the  batter  made  by  the  recipe  No.  508,  and 
dry  them  well  in  the  wafSe  irons.  The  following 
makes  a  richer  and  better  sort: 

S  cupfuls  of  flour— 13  ounces. 

1}4  cupfuls  of  milk. 

'■4  cupful  of  yeast,  or  a  yeast  cake  in  water. 

1  tablespoonfnl  of  sugar  or  syrup. 
Lard  size  of  an  egg,  melted. 

2  eggs. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Mix  up  over  ni^'ht  with  the  milk  cold ;  early  in 
the  morning  set  the  batter  where  it  will  get 
warm,  and  when  it  is  well  risen  beat  it  thor- 
oughly. 

Put  a  spoonful  of  melted  lard  in  the  waiile 
iron  and  turn  it  over  to  grease  both  sides.  Pour 
the  batter  in  from  a  pitcher  and  bake  brown  on 
both  sides. 

540— Bakins    Powder     Waffles     and    Batter 
Cakes. 

3  cupfuls  of  flour — 8  ounces. 

2  of  water  or  milk. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  lard. 
1  of  syrup. 

1  egg.     Little  salt. 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Put  all  the  above  at  once,  except  about  half 
the  milk,  into  a  deep  pan  and  stir  up  hard.  Thin 
it  down  with  the  rest  of  the  milli. 


MENU     NO.    L.— DINNER. 


541— Clams  on  tbe  Half  Shell. 

The  smallest  clams  are  preferred.  Wash  the 
outside  thoroughly  before  opening.  Loosen  the 
clams  from  the  shell  they  are  served  in  and  re- 
tain all  the  liquor  the  shell  will  hold.  Place  i  or 
5  in  each  plate  and  half  a  lemon  in  the  middle. 

543— Terrapin  Soup. 

Meat  and  stock  of  3  terrapins. 

3  quarts  of  veal  and  chicken  stock. 

Herbs  and  seasonings. 

Light  butter-and-flour  thickening. 

Lemon  and  wine. 

To  prepare  the  terrapin  from  the  first  see 
directions  at  No.  453. 

There  will  be  3  or  8  pints  of  the  liquor  they 
were  boiled  in.  Make  as  much  more  by  boiling 
the  heads  in  water  until  dissolved,  also  cut  the 
meat  of  the  terrapins  into  p  eces  of  small  size 
and  put  most  of  the  bones  back  in  the  soup, 
keeping  the  meat  to  be  added  later. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


103 


Make  2  quarts  of  good  meat  stock  by  boiling  a 
veal  shank  and  a  chicken  in  4  quarts  of  -water 
until  reduced  to  3  quarts.  Add  while  it  is  boil- 
ing a  small  slice  of  ham,  a  green  onion,  3 
cloves,  yi  blade  of  mace,  4  or  .5  sprigs  of  parsley, 
1  each  of  green  thyme,  marjoram  and  savory,  if 
they  can  be  had.  When  it  ia  reduced  suf- 
ficiently take  out  the  chicken  and  veal,  pour 
the  terrapin  stock  into  the  veal  stock,  and  for 
every  quart  allow  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  and 
the  same  of  fresh  butter.  Work  these  together 
in  a  saucepan  over  the  flre  as  if  making  drawn 
butter,  pourinfi;  in  some  of  the  soup  when  it 
begins  to  brown  and  then  turning  the  whole  into 
the  soup  pot. 

Then  strain  the  soup  through  a  fine  strainer 
into  a  clean  saucepan,  let  it  simmer  slowly  and 
skim  it  until  clear.  Mix  J^  cup  of  Madeira, 
juice  of  14.  ^  lemon  and  a  large  spoonful  of  cold 
water  and  add  them  to  the  soup  and  also  the 
terrapin  meat  These  will  bring  up  the  scum 
when  the  soup  boils  again  and  make  it  clearer 
still  and  bright.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne 
and  add  the  terrapin  eggs. 


543-  Baked  Sea  Bass. 

Scale  and  clean  the  fish;  leave  the  head  on  it 
it  is  to  be  sent  to  table  whole.  Make  a  stuffinj; 
for  it  of  2  pressed  cupfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  a 
small  cupful  of  butter,  rind  of  a  quarter  of 
lemon  minced  fine,  parsley,  green  thyme  and 
marjoram,  and  pepper  and  salt,  and  two  eggs 
mixed  with  a  spoonful  of  water  to  moisten  it. 
Sew  up  the  fiah  when  stuffed.  Mark  it  in  slices 
as  it  is  to  be  carved,  on  both  sides,  by  cutting 
down  to  the  bone,  and  put  a  thin  slice  of  salt 
pork  in  each  incision.  Bake  in  a  long  pan,  with 
soup  stock  and  salt  and  pepper  in  it,  about  30  or 
40  minutes,  or  according  to  size.  Put  a  little 
strained  tomatoes  and  brown  gravy  into  the  fish 
pan,  and  water  it  necessary;  let  boil  up,  skim 
and  strain  for  sauce. 


544 — Roast  r<eg  of  Mutton. 

For  plain  roast  leg  of  mutton  proceed  in  the 
same  manner  as  for  roast  beef.  Read  remarks 
at  No.  163.  Whether  the  mutton  shall  be  rare 
done  or  well  done  must  depend  upon  the  prefer- 
ences of  those  it  is  cooked  for,  but  in  either  case 
the  method  is  the  same,  and  the  natural  gravy 
should  flow  from  a  well-done  leg  of  mutton  as 
well  as  one  under-done,  if  not  in  such  large 
quantity.  It  is  best  to  make  it  a  rule  to  always 
put  a  little  salt  in  the  pan  the  meat  is  roasted  i;i, 
and  water  enough  to  cover  the  bottom,  and  if  a 
made  gravy  is  wanted  some  scraps  and  trim- 
mings beside.  The  reason  is  that  the  gravy  that 
oozes  from  these  scraps,  and  that  will  escape 
from  the  meat,  too,  to  some  extent,  will  be  found 
at  the  end  of  the  roasting  sticl:ing  to  the  bottom 
of  the  pan,  while  the  grease  ia  above  it  as  clear 
as  water,  and  if  this  condensed  gravy  has  salt  in 


it  it  will  dissolve  as  soon  as  the  grease  is  poured 
off  and  water  reaches  it  instead,  but  if  tiiercis 
no  salt  it  is  slow  to  dissolve.  A  spoonful  of 
thickening  will  be  needed  in  it. 

Let  the  leg  of  mutton  have  a  good  brown  color 
on  the  outside,  even  if  not  done  through.  Turn 
it  over  by  lifting  the  projecting  bone,  and  do  not 
pierce  the  meat  with  a  fork.  From  1  hour  to  2 
will  be  required  to  roast  it,  according  to  size. 

545— New  Potatoes,  Maitre  d'Hotel. 
They  never  seem  so  good  when  they  have  to  be 
pared.  Take  potatoes  that  are  small  and  just 
out  of  the  ground  and  scrape  them,  keeping 
thepi  covered  with  cold  water  until  time  to  cook. 
Put  them  on  in  cold  water,  with  salt  in  it;  boil 
with  care,  not  to  let  them  break  when  done. 
Drain  off;  put  in  fresh  hot  water,  little  salt, 
lump  of  butter,  vinegar  to  make  taste  slightly, 
chopped  parsley,  and  when  these  have  boiled 
up,  a  spoonful  of  flour  thickening.  Shake  about, 
without  putting  a  spoon  in,  until  it  thickens.  All 
articles  that  are  a  la  maitre  d'hotel  have  an  acid 
and  some  green  in  the  sauce. 


546 — Roast  Green  €roose. 

Singe  and  pick  the  young  goose  free  from  pin- 
feathers  and  draw  it  If  to  be  sent  to  table 
whole,  the  pinions  should  be  out  off  before 
cooking  and  the  main  wing  Joints  skewered  to 
the  back,  and  the  legs  held  compactly  to 
the  side  either  with  skewers  or  twine. 
Fry  a  minced  onion  in  butter,  light 
yellow,  and  not  at  all  dark  and  strong,  and  mix 
it  with  some  dry  mashed  potatoes;  add  an  egg 
and  the  butter  that  the  onion  was  fried  in  and  a 
seasoning  ot  white  pepper.  Stuff  the  goose  with 
the  seasoned  potato,  sew  up,  bake  it  in  a  pan  for 
about  one  hour,  or  more,  if  large.  Dredga  the 
goose  over  with  flour  when  nearly  done,  and 
baste  it  with  butter,  which  will  produce  a  fins 
crust  and  brown  color. 

It  to  be  sent  in  whole,  bake  some  small  apples 
in  a  pan  covered  with  greased  paper  and  place 
them  around  the  goose  in  a  dish. 


547— SteTved  Bntter  Beans. 

Throw  Lima  or  butter  beans  into  a  sauce-pan 
of  water  that  is  already  boiling  and  has  salt  in 
it,  and  oook  about  half-hour,  if  green  beans, 
but  if  dried  they  will  take  one  and  a  half  hours, 
besides  a  previous  soaking  in  water.  Drain 
away  the  water,  and  mix  in  a  little  cream  sauce 
or  butter  sauce,  or  add  milk,  butter  and  salt,  and 
thicken  when  it  boils  up. 


54S— Artichokes  as  a  Tesetable. 

Let  the  artichokes  lie  in  a  pan  of  cold  water, 
the  same  as  is  the  rule  for  cauliflower,  spinach, 
etc.,  an  hour  or  two  before  they  are  to  be  cooked. 
Wash  well,  and  if  the  tips  of  the  leaves  are  dis- 
colored, clip  them;  cut  the  artichokes  in  4  aud 
remove  the  stringy  core.     Have  the  water  ready 


104 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


boiling,  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  aalt  and  baking 
Boda  the  size  of  a  bean,  boil  the  artichokes  about 
J^  hour  or  until  the  boft  end  of  tiie  leaf  when 
pulled  out  proves  to  be  tender.  Drain  and  serve 
like  cauliflower,  3  pieces  in  a  dish,  and  aspoonful 
of  butter  sauce  poured  over. 


649— Lambs'  Tong-ues  Tvith  Artichokes. 

Take,  for  preference,  corned  lambs'  or  sheeps' 
tongues  of  a  good  pink  color,  and  boil  them  not 
less  than  2  hours,  which  may  be  done  the  evening 
before  they  are  served,  if  more  convenient.  Put 
them  into  cold  water  and  peel  off  the  outside  and 
split  them  lengthwise  in  two. 

Having  the  halves  ready  in  a  dish  when  the 
roast  meat  is  done,  after  taking  it  out  lay  the 
tongues  in  the  fat  and  glaze  in  the  baking  pan 
for  about  5  minutes,  then  take  them  out  slightly 
browned  and  glazed  and  keep  hot. 

Cook  an  artichoke  for  each  dish,  as  directed  in 
the  preceding  article,  boiling  them,  that  is  to 
Bay,  like  summer  cabbage  or  oauliilower,  but  cut 
them  in  halves  instead  of  quarters ;  only  scoop 
out  the  fibrous  part  before  cooking.  Drain  them 
well.  Serve  a  half  tongue  in  the  small  dish  and 
a  half  artichoke  at  each  end,  and  a  spoonful  of 
brown  gravy  over  the  vegetable  without  cover- 
ing the  tongue.  Tongue  and  spinach  may  be 
served  the  same  way. 


S50— Supreme  of  Fillets  of  Fowl  wita  Aspara- 
g:as  Points. 

Takes  its  name  from  sauce  supreme,  which  is 
simply  the  richest  white  sauce  that  can  be  made ; 
and  when  the  breasts  of  chickens,  cut  and 
trimmed  perfectly  smooth  and  shapely,  are  cov- 
ered in  the  dish  with  sauce  looking  as  glossy  as 
■  white  aatm,  just  thin  enough  to  settle  down 
smooth,  yet  too  thick  to  run  off  the  meat,  and 
spotted  all  over  the  surface  with  green  heads  of 
asparagus  and  bordered  with  the  same,  it  makes 
a  very  attractive  dish.  There  is  no  probability 
that  such  a  name  for  a  dish  will  ever  he  accepted 
for  common  among  English-speaking  people,  the 
ideas  associated  with  the  word  supreme  making 
such  a  connection  seem  incongruous,  if  not 
ridiculous.  We  talk  about  it  here  because  the 
dish  is  one  of  the  most  prominent  in  the  banquets 
of  the  crowned  heads  and  dignitaries  of  Europe, 
and  it  is  desirable,  at  least,  to  know  what  it  is. 

Take  3  fat  pullets  and  cut  them  so  that  the 
breast  and  breast-bone  entire  will  be  one  piece 
and  the  back  and  legs  another.  The  latter  may 
be  chopped  in  small  pieces  to  make  the  essence, 
as  only  the  breasts  are  wanted  for  the  dish.  Boil 
all  in  about  4  quarts  of  water,  but  do  not  put  in 
the  breasts  until  the  other  is  boiling,  and  take 
them  out  at  the  end  of  an  hour,  or  sooner,  if 
done.  Then  set  them  away  to  get  cold.  Add 
vegetable  seasonings  to  tlie  liquor  the  pieces  are 
stewing  in,  but  very  little,  for  it  has  to  be  con- 
densed.    When  it  has  simmered  half  wav,  strain 


the  liquor  through  a  napkin,  set  it  on  again  in  a 
bright  saucepan,  thicken  it  with  two  tablespoons- 
ful  of  flour  and  as  much  butter,  that  have  been 
stirred  together  over  the  fire,  but  not  browned,  and 
keep  it  simmering  slowlyand  skim  often.  When 
it  is  down  to  a  quart  or  less  pour  in  the  liquor 
from  a  can  of  mushrooms  or  some  mushroom 
liquor  obtained  by  boiling  minced  button  mush- 
rooms for  the  purpose.  When,  after  that,  the 
sauce  is  again  reduced  to  less  than  a  quart,  and 
is  becoming  thick,  beat  in  a  spoonful  of  fresli 
butter,  a  squeeze  of  lemon  juice,  salt  and  cay- 
enne, and  boil  a  cup  of  cream  in  another  sauce- 
pan. Add  cream,  a  little  at  a  time,  to  the  sauce 
juat  before  it  is  wanted,  making  it  of  the  con- 
sistency required,  and  pass  it  through  a  fine 
strainer. 

The  breasts  of  the  fowls  are  to  be  brought  out 
a  suificient  time  before  the  meal,  cut  carefully 
off  the  bone  and  trimmed  to  a  good  form,  then 
made  hot  in  chicken  broth,  taken  up  and  placed 
on  the  dish  or  dishea,  and  the  sauce  poured 
over. 

The  asparagus  heads,  having  been  cut  from 
the  stalks  before  cooking  and  carefully  boiled 
like  green  peas,  are  to  be  drained  and  shaken 
about  in  butter,  and  placed  in  the  dish  with  a 
fork. 


551— Scrambled  Braius  Id  Fatties. 

1  pint  or  pound  of  brains. 

4  eggs. 

1  ounce  of  butter,  size  of  an  egg. 

Parsley,  pepper  and  salt. 

Simmer  the  brains  in  water,  with  salt  and  a 
little  vinegar  in  it,  about  20  minutes.  Take  out, 
pick  them  over  to  remove  the  dark  portions,  put 
them  into  a  frying-pan  with  the  butter,  break  in 
the  eggs,  add  a  little  obopped  parsley,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  stir  all  together  over  the  fire  until 
the  eggs  in  it  are  soft  cooked.  Then  fill  patty 
shells  made  of  puff  paste,  put  on  the  lids  (see 
No.  256)  and  ornament  with  a  sprig  of  parsley. 

Scrambled  brains  as  above  also  make  a  good 
breakfast  dish  wifcbout  the  patties.  It  is  com- 
mon to  put  the  brains  in  the  pan  raw,  but  not  a 
good  way,  for  it  is  difficult  to  get  them  cooked 
through  without  making  them  too  dry,  and 
almost  impossible  to  free  them  from  blood  dis- 
colorations. 


553- Rice  Custard  Fuddine. 

A  large  '%  cup  of  raw  rice — 4  ounces. 
Butter  size  of  an  egg — 1}^  ounces. 

2  tablespoonf uls  of  sugar-  2  oimoes. 

3  yolks  of  eggs. 
Vanilla  extract  to  flavor. 
1  cupful  of  milk. 

Wash  the  rice  and  put  it  on  to  boil  in  a  meas- 
ured cupful  of  water,  and  when  it  is  half  cooked 
pour  in  )^  cupful  of  milk.     Put  on  the  lid  and 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


105 


let  it  cook  gently  at  the  back  of  the  Btove.  Never 
Btir  it  and  it  will  not  be  very  apt  to  burn. 

Then  mix  in  the  other  ingredients— the  ]4  cup 
milk  remaining  to  be  beaten  m  with  the  yolks — 
and  pour  it  into  a  buttered  pudding  pan  that  will 
hold  a  quart  Bake  only  till  fairly  set  in  the 
middle,  as  too  much  baking  will  cause  the  eggs 
to  separate  and  make  it  watery.  Serve  with  a 
sauce. 


553— Raspberry  Tart. 

1  quart  of  fresh  raspberries. 

1  small  cupful  of  sugar. 

Puff  paste  for  the  crust. 

BoU  the  raspberries  with  the  sugar  spread 
over  the  top  and  only  a  spoonful  or  two  of  water 
in  the  pan  to  moisten  the  bottom  until  the  juice 
begins  to  run. 

Lay  a  crust  of  puff  paste  rolled  thinner  in  the 
middle  than  at  the  edges  in  a  very  small  pie  pan, 
or  as  many  of  them  as  are  needed,  fill  the  little 
pies  with  the  stewed  raspberries  and  bake  with- 
out a  top  crust  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  The 
puff  paste  edges  of  euoh  pies  as  these  rise  the 
better  if  the  oven  is  hot  when  they  are  first  put 
in,  and  then  allowed  to  cool  so  that  they  may  dry 
well  done. 


554-Ke<l  Cherry  Ice. 

4  oupfuls  of  sweet  red  or  black  enerries— 1 
quart. 

3  oupfuls  of  water— 1  pint 

2  level  cupfula  of  sugar — 12  ounces. 

Mash  the  fruit  raw  and  thoroughly  so  as  to 
break  the  stones — a  potato  masher  and  deep 
saucepan  will  do — and  strain  the  juice  through  a 
fine  strainer  into  the  freezer.  Boil  the  cherry 
pulp  with  some  of  the  sugar  and  water  to  extract 
the  flavor  from  the  kernels,  and  rub  that  also 
through  the  strainer,  add  the  other  pint  of  water 
and  balance  of  the  sugar  and  freeze.  Use  no 
white  of  eggs  in  this  ice,  as  the  color  is  not  good 
unless  frozen  natural.  Tliis  makes  a  good  ice 
for  the  third  color  in  a  Neapolitan. 


565— Queen  Cakes. 

1  level  cupful  of  granulated  sugar — 7  ounces. 

1  of  butter — 6  ounces. 

6  or  7  whites  of  eggs— 6  ounces. 

2  cupfuis  of  flour — 8  ounces. 
Grated  rind  and  peel  of  }^  a  lemon. 
5  tablespoonf  uls  of  sherry. 

1  cupful  of  cut  citron — 8  ounces. 

1  cupful  of  almonds,  peeled  and  split. 

1  onpful  of  sultana  seedless  raisins. 

This,  as  is  seen,  is  a  white  cake  mixture  with 
fruit  in  it  The  appearance  will  be  the  finer  if 
the  citron  can  be  procured  of  a  light  green  color, 
as  it  sometimes  is.    Ciet  the  fruit  ready  first 


Then  cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together, 
add  the  whites  a  very  little  at  a  time  without 
previous  beating.  "When  they  are  worked  in  add 
the  flour,  and  after  that  beat  the  cake  for  about 
10  minutes.  Add  the  flavorings  and  then 
the  fruit,  but  first  dust  it  well  with  flour  to  pre- 
vent sinkmg  in  the  cake. 

Bake  in  small  patty  pans  or  mufiin  rings,  and 
when  done  spread  the  tops  with  icing. 


MENU    NO.   LI.— TEA. 


556- Deviled  Crabs. 

Boil  the  crabs  in  salted  water  30  minutes, 
open,  crack  the  claws  and  take  out  the  meat, 
measure  it  with  a  spoon  into  a  bowl  and  add 
half  as  many  spoonfuls  of  fine  bread  crumbs. 
For  each  crab  add  a  teaspoonful  of  softened  but- 
ter, same  of  vinegar  mixed  with  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
cayenne.  Pack  the  mixture  in  the  crab  shells 
and  cover  the  surface  with  cracker  meal,  bake 
brown  in  a  brisk  oven  and  baste  the  tops  once 
with  butter  to  moisten  the  Dreading.  Serve  in 
the  shells. 


657— Buttered  Toast. 

Slice  the  bread  thin  and  toast  in  the  wire 
broiler  over  clear  coals,  or  over  the  stove  fire 
with  the  stove  lid  removed.  Cut  off  the  rough 
edges,  and  cut  the  toast  either  in  long  or  tri- 
angular pieces  all  alike.  Moisten  it  slightly  by 
pouring  a  very  little  boiling  water  over  it  with  a 
teaspoon,  especially  around  the  edges;  then 
spread  with  softened  butter  and  set  it  before  the 
fire  a  few  minutes. 


558— Kice  Waffles. 

1  cupful  of  dry,  cooked  rice. 
1  small  cupful  of  milk. 

1  of  flour. 

3  or  3  yolks  and  1  whole  egg. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter. 
1  of  syrup. 

Little  salt 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Mash  the  dry-cooked  rice  in  a  pan  with  a  little 
of  the  milk,  which  should  be  warm,  till  there  are 
no  lumps  left,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredi- 
ents all  at  once,  and  beat  up  thoroughly.  Bake 
in  a  waffle  iron. 

Sour  milk  and  soda  can  be  used  instead  of 
sweet  milk  and  baking  powder. 


659— Country   Pancakes. 

Bake  batter  cakes  on  a  large  griddle,  so  as  to 
get  a  number  at  once.  Snread  them  with  butter 
and  sugar,  and  pile  up  six  or  more  in  a  plate, 
Cut  in  quarters  when  served, 


106 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


560— Peaches  and  Cream. 

The  harder  kinds  of  peaches  should  be  chopped 
to  the  size  of  strawberries  and  mixed  with  sugar 
two  or  three  hours  before  the  meal.  Allow  about 
four  ounces  of  sugar  to  a  quart  Soft  peaclies, 
after  peeling,  are  best  only  quartered  or  sliced. 
If  admissible,  serve  them  in  large  glas9  bowls^ 
ornamented  with  quarters  of  red  or  yellow 
peaches  placed  in  order  and  a  pitcher  of  cream 
with  each  bowl  separately.  It  served  individu- 
ally in  saucers,  poui'  the  cream  oyer  only  as  they 
are  dished  up. 


MENU  NO.  LII.— BALL  SUPPER. 


561— Ecg:  IiemoiiaUe  fur  lifty. 

8  quarts  of  water — a  tin  milk  pail  fulL 

3  pounds  of  sugar — 6  or  7  cupfuls. 

2  dozen  lemons. 

2  oranges. 

8  or  10  whites  of  eggs. 

Shaved  or  broken  ice. 

Grate  the  rinds  of  8  or  10  of  the  lemons  and 
the  oranges  into  a  large  bowl,  using  a  tin  grater, 
and  take  less  or  more,  according  to  the  size  and 
degree  of  ripeness  or  greenness  of  the  fruit. 
Scrape  off  the  grated  rind  that  adheres.  Put  a 
little  sugar  in  the  bowl  and  rub  the  zest  and 
sugar  together  with  the  back  of  a  spoon. 
Squeeze  in  the  juice  of  all,  add  the  sugar  and 
some  water  and  then  the  whites  of  eggs,  and 
beat  the  mixture  till  the  sugar  is  dissolved ;  put 
in  water  to  make  the  specified  amount  and 
strain  the  lemonade  into  another  vessel  contain- 
ing ice. 

When  to  be  served  fill  a  glass  three  parts  full, 
invert  another  on  top,  the  rims  close  together, 
and  shake  up  to  make  the  foam. 


563— Plain  !Lemonade. 

Three  or  foui-  lemons,  according  to  size,  and  a 
small  cup  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  water.  Slice  the 
lemons  into  the  water  beforehand,  and  let  stand. 
Pui  shaved  ice  in  the  glasses  before  filling. 

Clear  lemonade  can  he  obtained  by  filtering  it, 
when  made,  through  blotting  paper  folded  to  fit 
in  a  glass  funnel 


563— Catawba  Cup. 

To  each  bottle  of  dry  catawba  allow  two  bottles 
of  soda  water  and  a  quarter  pint  of  curacoa,  mix 
in  a  pitcher,  and  add  ice  abundantly.  If  not  con- 
venient to  get  bottled  soda,  use  water  and  sugar 
or  lemonade  to  mix  with  the  wine  and  Uqueur. 


564— Turkey  Galantine,  or   Bonea   TarKey  in 

Jelly. 

Three  different  ways  of  preparing  either 
chickens,  turkeys  or  ducks  for  this  purpose  have 
been  described  at  Nos.  S9,  300  and  465. 

When  the  boned  and  stuffed  fowl  baa  been  suf- 
ficiently boiled  press  it,  still  in  the  cloth,  into  a 
pan  or  mold,  and  there  let  it  remain  with  a 
weight  on  top  until  cold.  Into  whatever  shape 
it  may  be,  there  should  be  another  vessel  a  size 
larger  precisely  like  it,  and  the  boned  turkey  or 
chicken,  being  taken  out  of  the  first  mold, 
and  the  cloth  taken  off  and  the  surface  wiped 
clean  with  a  napkin  dipped  in  hot  water,  is  then 
to  be  placed  in  the  larger  one ;  the  space  is  then 
filled  up  with  aspic  jelly,  poured  in  nearly  cold, 
and  when  set,  the  mold  being  dipped  a  few  mo- 
ments in  warm  water,  the  galantine  can  be 
turned  out  onto  its  dish  and  decorated. 

Two  fair-sized  turkeys,  prepared  as  above, 
either  stuffed  with  forcemeat  or  with  the  meat 
of  another  turkey  or  chicken,  will  slice  into  fifty 
plates. 


dG5— Sandwiches  of  Potted  Rabbit. 

Make  baking  powder  or  buttermilk  biscuits 
large  in  diameter,  but  thin  and  fiaky,  split  them, 
spread  one-half  with  butter,  the  other  with  pot- 
ted rabbit  and  place  them  together  again. 


566— Potted  Rabbit. 

Potted  meats  will  keep  for  months  if  required 
and  can  be  drawn  upon  as  the  occasion  arises. 

2  small  rabbits  or  1  large  one. 

1  pound  of  fat  bacon. 

1  pound  of  veal. 

Tlie  liver  of  the  rabbits. 

Salt,  pepper,  and  spleen. 

Cut  the  rabbit  in  pieces  and  put  it  in  a  stone 
jar;  cut  the  veal  and  bacon  in  large  dice,  mix 
them  and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mace, 
cloves,  and  black  pepper,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  fill  the  spaces  between  the  pieces  of 
rabbit.  Lay  a  thin  slice  or  two  of  bacon  on  top 
and  1  bay  leaf,  then  cover  with  a  lid  of  plain 
paste  made  of  flour  and  water  only,  set  the  jar 
in  a  pan  or  pot  containing  water  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  3  or  4  hours.  There  is  no  water 
needed  in  the  meat.  A  greased  paper  on  top 
will  keep  the  paste  from  burning. 

When  done,  set  the  jar  away  to  becoiiio  cold, 
pick  tho  meat  from  the  pieces  of  rabbit  and 
pound  them  to  a  paste  along  with  the  veal  and 
bacon  and  fat,  and  if  any  gravy  at  the  bottom, 
boil  down  almost  dry  and  mix  it  in.  Taste  for 
seasoning.  Press  solid  into  small  jars  or  cups, 
and  cover  the  top  with  the  clear  part  of  melted 
bulfer.    Keep  tightly  covered  in  a  cool  place. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


107 


567— SandwIcUes  of  Potted  Quail. 

Make  rolls,  either  split  or  rounded,  but  flat, 
and  place  inside  a  half  of  a  potted  quail,  pre- 
pared according  to  the  foDowing  recipe. 


S6S— Potted  Quail. 

1  dozen  quaiL 

1  pound  ot  veal. 

1  pound  of  fat  bacon. 

Seasonings  and  paste. 

Bone  the  birds  as  directed  for  boning  fowls ;  a 
penknife  may  be  used,  and  no  great  care  is  re- 
quired, except  to  get  all  the  meat  and  not  tear 
the  sides  lo  tatters.  Out  each  in  two.  Chop  the 
veal  and  bacon  together  into  sausage  meat,  and 
season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mace,  cloves 
and  white  pepper,  and  the  same  ot  salt,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  finely  minced  lemon  rind. 

Select  a  jar  or  two  small  ones  that  the  quail 
may  be  kept  in  after  cooking,  sijread  a  thin 
layer  of  the  veal  and  bacon  forcemeat  on  the 
bottom,  lay  the  halves  of  quail  in  order  on  that, 
spread  them  with  a  little  of  the  forcemeat  and  so 
on  till  all  are  in,  having  forcemeat  for  the  top. 
Cover  with  a  thin  slice  or  two  of  bacon,  then 
with  a  crust  of  flour  and  water  paste  and  bake 
by  setting  the  jar  in  a  pan  of  water  in  the  oven 
for  three  hours. 

When  done  take  off  the  crust  and  drain  away 
the  fat  and  gravy  and  press  by  placing  a  small 
plate  inside  on  the  meat  and  a  weight  on  that. 
When  cold  cover  with  clarified  batter  and 
cover  tightly  to  exclude  the  air. 

In  case  bacon  is  not  liked  in  such  pottings  as 
the  two  preceding,  fresh  butter  sufficient  to 
cover  and  bake  the  meat  or  birds  in  can  be  used 
instead. 


569— Smoked  Tonsue. 

Smoked  reindeer,  buffalo  or  ox-tongues 
should  be  soaked  in  water  a  day  or  two  before 
they  are  cooked.  Boil  them  about  three  hours, 
peel  off  the  outside  skin,  slice  very  thin,  when 
cold,  on  a  large  plattei'.  Around  the  edge  put  a 
border  of  green  pickled  peppers  and  gherkins, 
cut  in  strips  and  interspersed  with  shapes  of 
beeis  scooped  out  with  a  potato  spoon  and  previ- 
ously steeped  in  vinegar. 


570— Chicken  i 


Turkey  Salad  for  a  Handed 
Supper. 

6  or  8  fowls  or  3  turkeys,  or  both,  for  a  large 
party. 

12  to  24  heads  of  celery — according  to  size. 

1  dozen  hard- boiled  eggs. 

Salad  dressing  and  olives. 

Boil  the  fowls  until  tender  and  set  them  away 
to  cool.     Pick  off  all  the  meat  and  cut  it  first  in  j  gil  and  vinegar  alternately. 


strips  and  then  across  in  dice,  the    smaller  the 
better,  but  never  chop  it 

Cut  the  celery  stalks  lengthwise,  also,  and 
then  in  dice  not  so  small  as  the  chicken.  Mix 
them,  season  lightly  with  -pepper  and  salt  and 
moisten  with  a  sprinkling  of  oil  and  vmegar, 
then  pour  over  it  in  the  pan  or  bowl  the  salad 
dressing  of  the  annexed  recipe.  This  salad, 
that  being  ready-mixed,  will  be  placed  by  the 
spoonful  upon  the  plates  along  with  other 
meats,  should  be  moist  enough  not  to  be  a  com- 
pact paste,  as  it  is  when  the  chicken  is  mmced 
too  fine,  yet  the  dressing  must  not  run  like  a 
sauce.  If  the  dressing  or  the  salad  need  thin- 
ning use  a  cupful  of  the  broth  the  fowls  were 
boiled  in,  cold,  but  not  ice-cold,  lest  the  butter 
separate.  Round  up  the  salad  slightly  in  a  flat 
dish  or  shallow  bowl  and  border  with  olives  and 
quartered  eggs,  or  with  shred  green  lettuce. 


571— Best  Salad  Dressins. 

This  quantity  is  for  salad  for  a  party: 

6  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

3  raw  yolks. 

J<^  cupful  of  olive  oil. 

}4  cupful  melted  fresh  butter. 

1  cupful  of  vinegar. 

2  teaspoonf  uls  of  salt. 

1  tablespoonful  of  made  mustard. 

Little  pepper-sauce  and  cayenne. 

Grate  the  hard-boiled  yolks  or  pound  them 
quite  smooth  in  a  bowl  with  the  butter,  made 
soft  by  warming,  and  the  raw  yolks.  Add  the 
salt,  mustard,  cayenne,  and  then  a  little  oil  and  a 
little  vinegar  next,  working  in  first  one  and 
then  the  other,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  until  all  ot 
the  specified  amount  is  m.  The  bowl  should  be 
set  in  ice  water.  This  makes  a  buttery  com- 
pound that  may  either  be  mixed  with  the  salad 
material  or  spread  on  top. 


573— Poached  Tolks  for  Salad  Dressins. 

A  considerable  saving  may  be  effected  when 
preparing  for  a  party,  at  the  season  when  eggs 
are  dear,  by  separating  the  eggs  raw,  taking  the 
whites  for  the  many  articles  that  require  tnem, 
such  as  egg  lemonade,  meringues,  kisses,  frost- 
ings,  frozen  punches,  white  cakes,  etc.,  and 
dropping  the  yolks  into  boiling  water  to  poach 
them  for  salaas  and  salad  dressings,  stuffing  of 
boned  fowls  and  other  uses. 


73— nest  Salad  Dressing  in   Small  Quantity. 

2  hard  boiled  yolks. 

1  raw  yolk. 
Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

2  tablespoonluls  of  olive  oik 
.5  tablespoonf  uls  of  vinegar. 
Salt,  made  mustard  and  cayenne. 
Pound  the  hard  boiled  yolks   and  butter  to- 
gether warm,  add  the  raw  yolk,   the  seasonings, 


108 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


574— Tliree-Cornered  Tarts. 

To  be  neat  and  rich  and  fit  for  a  party  supper 
these  must  be  made  small,  baked  dry  and  have 
a  sugar  glaze  baked  ou  them. 

Have  some  stewed  apple  ready,  thick  and  -witli 
considerable  sugar  in  it— any  other  kind  of  jam 
will  do  as  well — and  some  puff-paste.  Roll  the 
paste  to  a  thin  sheet  and  cut  it  in  SJ^  inch 
squares,  that  is  about  the  length  of  a  middle 
finger  across. 

Put  a  teaspoonful  of  jam  in  the  center  and 
fold  over  so  as  to  make  a  three-cornered  tart 
Eun  the  paste  jagger  along  the  edges  to  close 
them  by  cuttiDg  off  a  shred,  or  pinch  them  to- 
gether with  the  fingers.  Brush  over  the  tops, 
after  placing  in  the  baking  pan,  with  egg  and 
water  and  sprinkle  granulated  sugar  upon  them. 
Bake  in  a  slack  oven. 


B7B_Paper  Cases  for  Individual  Charlottes. 

Procure  half  a  dozen  sheets  of  cap  or  fine 
book  paper,  which  is  like  writing  paper  not 
ruled,  and  make  a  pattern  for  the  paper  cases  by 
fitting  a  band  of  paper  to  the  outside  of  a  very 
small  tumbler,  such  as  is  need  for  Roman  punch, 
or  some  similar  small  shape.  The  band  of  pa- 
per, when  cut  to  fit,  will  form  a  curve.  Cut  as 
many  such  pieces  as  are  needed  from  the  sheets, 
and  then,  placing  three  or  four  together,  cut 
both  top  and  bottom  edges  into  fringe  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  or  less  in  depth.  Make  some  corn- 
starch paste  very  stiff,  and  paste  the  ends  of  the 
bands  together,  forming  cup  shapes,  then  cut 
around  the  edges,  press  the  fringed  bottom  edges 
of  the  cups  onto  the  paste,  the  fringe  bent  out- 
ward, and  the  shapes  are  made. 


576  —  Strawberry  Charlottes  in  Cases  for 
Fifty. 
Having  prepared  50  paper  cases  of  about  the 
capacity  of  very  small  tumblers,  according  to 
the  directions  in  the  preceding  article ;  next  bake 
6  sheets  of  cake  of  any  kind  that  is  suitable  to 
roll  up,  or  of  the  following,  which  is  right  in 
quantity  for  50  small  charlottes. 

3  rounded  oupfuis  of  granulated  sugar— 1^ 
pounds. 

15  eggs. 

J^  cup  of  water. 

4  rounded  cupfuls  of  flour — 18  ouncea 
Separate  ttie  eggs.     Beat  the  yolks,  sugar  and 

water  rapidly  for  10  minutes. 

Have  the  flour  weighed  or  measured  ready. 
Whip  the  whites  perfectly  firm.  Stir  the  flour 
into  the  beaten  yolks  and  the  whipped  whites 
last. 

Spread  thinly  on  sheets  of  blank  paper  not 
greased,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  6 
minutes. 


Careful  baking  is  required,  because  if  dried 
or  burnt  the  cake  will  break. 

Brush  the  paper,  under  side,  with  water,  and 
it  can  be  pulled  off  the  cake.  Should  any  of  the 
sheets  become  too  dry  to  roll  or  bend  in  spite  of 
care  in  baking,  lay  them  on  top  of  each  other 
after  wetting  the  paper,  and  let  lie  so  half  an 
hour. 

Cut  out  the  pieces  of  cake  by  the  same  paper 
pattern  the  cakes  were  cut  by,  but  a  trifle 
shorter,  and  put  the  lining  of  cake  in  the  paper 
cases.  No  bottom  of  cake  is  needed,  but  little 
square  pieces  can  be  pushed  down  inside  if 
wished. 

A  short  time  before  serving  fill  the  charlottes 
with  the  cream  intended  for  the  purpose. 


577— Strawberry  Wliipped    Cream    for  Fifty. 

1  quart  of  red  strawberries. 

3  pints  of  thick  sweet  cream. 

1  pound  of  sugar — 2  cupfuls. 

IJ^  ounces  of  gelatine — a  package. 

Cover  the  fruit  with  the  eusar  in  a  bowl, 
mash  together  and  rub  through  a  seive. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  millc  extra,  in 
a  small  vessel  set  in  a  place  where  it  will  warm 
gradually.  When  the  gelatine  is  dissolved  put 
the  cream  into  a  pail  or  pan,  take  the  large  wire 
egg  whisk  and  whip  it  to  a  froth,  pour  in  the 
gelatine,  and  continue  whipping,  with  the  pan 
set  on  Ice;  then  add  the  strawberry  pulp  or 
syrup,  and  when  it  is  firm  enough,  and  before  it 
is  quite  set,  fill  the  individual  charlottes  with  it, 
well  piled  above  the  edge. 

Cream  without  fruit,  and  only  flavored  with 
strawberry  extract,  does  not  need  any  gelatine. 
See  No.  313. 


578--lndian  Kiyer  Orange  Jelly. 

12  large  red-fleshed  oranges. 

l}4  pints  of  water— 3  cupfuls. 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

1  package  of  gelatine. 

1  lemon — juice  only. 

5  whites  of  eggs. 

Put  on  the  cold  water,  with  everything  in  it 
except  the  oranges,  and  let  heat  gradually,  with 
care  not  to  let  it  burn,  as  it  is  very  apt  to  do  at 
first.  Pare  off  the  yellow  zest  of  1  orange  and 
throw  that  in  for  flavor,  not  forgetting  the  lemon 
juice,  which  is  essential.  Squeeze  enough  of  the 
oranges  that  have  red  meat  aad  iuice  to  make 
a  quart. 

When  the  jelly  on  the  fire  has  boiled  about 
15  minutes  pour  it  through  the  jelly  bag  and 
pour  tbe  orange  juice  through  immediately 
after,  letting  them  mix,  and  run  through  several 
times,  the  object  being  to  filter  the  orange  juice 
to  brightness  by  passing  it  through  the  coagulated 
white  of  egg  without  boiling  it    If  not  of  good 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


109 


color  add  coobineaL  Can  be  set  in  molds  or 
served  in  glasaea  or  out  in  diamonda  in  meringue 
cups,  etc. 


Meringue   cups  for  fifty  will  be  made  with  15 
whites  and  a  pound  and  three-quarters  of  sugar. 


579— Ijemon  Butter  Drops. 

Make  the  cake  mixture  Wo.  442,  and  drop  in 
round  cakes  on  sheets  of  paper,  dredge  with 
sugar  and  Bake.  Spread  lemon  butter  between 
two  placed  together. 


5S0— Liemon  Butter,  or  Paste,  or  Cheese;:ake, 
or  Lieuiuu  Honey. 

A  world-wide  favorite,  made  of — 
1  cupful  of  sugar — 8  ounces. 

3  lemons. 

Butter,  size  of  an  egg — 3  ounces. 

4  to  0  yolks  or  3  whole  eggs — not  particular. 
Cut  the  sugar,  butter,  grated  rinds  and  juice 

into  a  saucepan  and  boil,   add  the  yolks  and  stir 
until  it  becomes  thick. 


5S1— %lliipped  Cream  Frozen  in  Glasses. 

For  a  party  supper  that  takes  place  at  a  time 
when  the  weather  is  extremely  cold,  it  is  easy  to 
freeze  glasses  of  variously  flavored  creams  by 
only  exposing  them  to  the  outer  air.  Otherwise 
it  may  be  found  inconvenient  to  prepare  them  in 
this  way  because  of  the  large  amount  of  room  in 
the  freezing  boxes  required. 


583— Coffee  Flavored  Whipped  Cream  Frozen. 

1  quart  of  thick  cream. 

1  cuptul  of  strong  black  coffee. 

1  cupful  of  sugar. 

Mix  these  in  a  tin  pail  or  deep  pan  and  whip 
with  the  wire  egg-whisk  until  it  is  all  froth. 
Pile  up  in  stem  glasses,  freeze  and  serve  in  the 
same  glasses.    See  No.  !581. 


583— Maraschino   Cream   Frozen  in    Glasses. 

1  quart  of  thick  cream. 
1  cupful  of  maraschino  liqueur. 
}4  cupful  of  sugar. 

Whip  to  a  froth  with  the    wire  egg-whisk,  pile 
in  glasses  and  freeze.    See  Na  581. 


cupful  grated. 


584— Chocolate  Creaui  Frozen  in  Glasses. 

1  quart  of  thick  cream. 

4  ounces  of  sweet  chocolate- 

1  cupful  of  sugar — 8  ounces. 

1  cupful  of  milk. 

Vanilla  flavoring. 

Sat  the  milk  over  the  fire  with  the  sugar  and 


grated  chocolate  in  it  and  beat  until  the  choco- 
late is  all  dissolved,  strain  it  into  another  vessel 
and  let  it  cool. 

Whip  the  cream  in  a  pail  or  pan,  set  on  ice, 
and  add  the  chocolate  milk  while  whipping. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  extract.  Heap  the  whipped 
in  stem  glasses  and  freeze  as  directed  in  preced- 
ing articles. 


585- Neapolitan  Cake. 

Sheets  of  pound  cake  mixture  baked  on  jelly- 
cake  pans,  a  good  number  of  them  with  jelly 
spread  between,  piled  high,  the  cake  trimmed 
and  ornamented. 


586— White  Mountain  Cake. 

Jelly  cake  sheets  like  the  foregoing  kind,  with 
cake  frosting,  the  same  as  made  for  meringues 
and  kisses,  spread  thickly  between  the  layers 
and  on  top.    Chopped  almonds  may  be  mixed  in. 


587— Layer  Fruit  Cake. 

Like  the  preceding,  but  minced  raisins,  cit- 
ron, almonds  and  currants  mixed  with  the  frost- 
ing between  the  layers. 


588- Tokay  Grape  Ice. 

5  pints  of  red  Tokay  grapes — 4  pounds. 
3  cupfuls  of  water. 

3  cupfula  of  sugar. 

1  lemon  and  1  orange. 

4  whites  of  eggs. 

Select  about  a  fourth  of  the  grapes,  to  be 
dropp'id  whole  into  the  ice  at  last  Scald  the 
rest  in  a  syrup  made  of  the  sugar  and  part  of 
the  water,  and  rub  the  pulp  through  a  strainer, 
with  the  syrup,  and  pour  the  remaining  water 
over  the  skins  while  pressing.  Add  the  juice, 
only,  of  the  orange  and  lemon,  freeze  in  a  freezer 
the  usual  way,  and  when  nearly  done  add  the 
whites  of  eggs  whipped  firm,  also  the  raw  grapes, 
and  finish  the  freezmg. 


589— Hickory  Nut  Ice  Cream. 

1  pound  of  hickory-nut  kernels. 

2  cups  of  sugar. 

1  quart  of  cream. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  burnt  brown. 

Pick  over  the  kernels  carefully  for  pieces  of 
shell,  then  pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  a  little 
sugar  and  water  added. 

Set  2  spoonfuls  of  sugar  over  the  fire  without 
water  and  let  it  melt  and  brown.  Pour  in  a  little 
water  to  dissolve  it,  then  add  it  to  the  cream 
with  the  sugar  and  nut  paste  and  freeze  in  ihe 
usual  manner. 

The  two  foregoing  ices  may  be  packed  in  brick 
molds  in  layers,  put  down  and  frozen  firm. 


ilO 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


590— Richest  Fruit  Cake  or  Black  Cake. 

Prepare  the  fruit  first, 

3}^  pounds  of  seedless  raisins. 

3M  pounds  of  clean  dry  currants. 

\}4  pounds  of  citron,  shred  fine. 

3  ounces  of  mixed  ground  apices — cinnamon, 
cloves,  nutmej^  and  mace. 

1  email  cupful  of  burnt  sugar  coloring. 

1  small  cupful  of  rebelled  molasses. 

1  small  cupful  of  brandy. 

1  tablespoonful  of  extract  of  lemon. 

A  small  addition  of  almonds,  nuts,  candy,  or 
cut  figs  can  be  made  if  wished. 

Then  mix  the  cake  batter: 

14  ounces  of  sugar. 

14  ounces  of  butter. 

10  eggs. 

18  ounces  of  flour. 

Mix  up  same  as  pound  cake ;  after  the  flour  ie 
all  in  add  the  3  ounces  of  spice,  then  the  caramel 
coloring,  molasses,  brandy  and  lemon  extract. 
The  batter  M'ill  then  be  quite  thin.  Dust  the 
fruit  well  with  flour  and  mix  it  in. 

Line  two  cake  molds  with  buttered  paper  and 
divide  the  mixture  into  them.  Set  the  molds  in 
the  middle  of  a  sheet  or  two  of  greased  paper, 
gather  it  up  around  them  and  tie  with  twine, 
thus  wrapping  the  molds  in  paper  to  shield  them 
from  too  much  heat  and  avoid  burning  the  fruit. 
Bake  from  3  to  3K  hours  in  a  slack  oven. 


The  black  cake  above  should  be  at  least  3  or  S 
days  old  before  it  is  cu  t.  The  amount  of  cake 
batter  only  serves  to  hold  the  fruit  together,  but, 
it  ought  to  be  mentioned,  the  quantity  of  the 
pound  cake  mixture  in  it  may  be  doubled  and  all 
the  other  ingredients  remain  the  same  and  it  will 
still  be  a  very  rich  black  cake. 


591— Tea  for  a  large  Party. 

To  make  what  tea-drinkers  call  a  real  good 
cup  of  tea  takes  nearly  a  teaspoonful  of  green 
tea  for  each  cup,  or  4  teaspoonf uls  to  5  cups  of 
water,  the  leaves  absorbing  1  cup.  But  then 
there  is  a  second  drawing  that  brings  this  out. 

Four  ounces  of  tea  contain  SB  teaspoonfuls  or 
2  cupfuls,  rounded  up.  Using  mixed  tea,  and 
allowing  time  to  draw  2  cupfuls  of  tea,  is  suffi- 
cient to  put  into  40  cups  of  water,  or  a  quarter- 
pound  of  tea  to  3J.<  gallons  of  water,  whioli  is  the 
same  thing  in  other  words. 

The  best  way  to  make  tea  for  a  number  is  to 
have  the  water  boiling  in  an  urn  and  put  the  tea 
in  a  box  made  of  perforated  tin  and  drop  it  into 
the  water,  which  must  then  be  stopped  from 
boiling. 


59a-WIilte    Coffee 

Is   made    with    coffee    that,    instead    of    being 
browned,  is  only  baked  to  a  slight   yellow    color 


and  is  not  ground,  or  at  most  the  berries  are 
only  bruised,  and  is  made  with  one-half  milk 
and  one-half  water.  It  requires  twice  as  much 
coffee  as  the  ordinary. 

For  8  cups  take : 

2  cupfuls  of  light  baked^coffee  berries. 

4  cupfuls  of  boiling  water. 

5  cupfuls  of  boiling  milk. 

The  berries  may  have  been  parched  before, 
but  when  wanted,  heat  them  over  again  and 
throw  them  hot  into  the  boiling  water.  Close 
the  lid  and  let  stand  to  draw  for  }^  hour,  then 
add  the  boiling  milk  through  a  strainer. 

When  the  milk  is  first  set  on  to  boil,  put  in  a 
tablespoonful  or  two  of  sugar  to  prevent  burn- 
ing at  the  bottom.  Serve  sugar  with  the  coffee 
as  usual,  and,  it  for  a  party,  a  spoonful  of 
whipped  cream  in  each  cup. 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECIPES. 


593--lcinsr  and  Ornamentmsr  Cakes. 

Fruit  cakes  always  need  two  coats  of  icing. 
Common  glaze  or  sugar  only,  melted  with  white 
of  egg,  may  do  for  the  first,  and  if  to  be  very 
nice,  mix  some  minced  almond  in  it.  The  first 
coat  will  dry  in  an  hour  in  a  warm  place. 

Cake  icing  is  the  same  as  the  star  kiss  mixture 
or  meringue,  at  No.  392,  only  it  is  surer  to  beat 
sugar  and  whites  together  in  a  bowl,  and  pow- 
dered sugar  makes  the  smoothest  icing.  Put 
into  a  deep  bowl  two  whites  and  a  cupful  of  su- 
gar, which  makes  a  stiff  paste,  and  beat  them 
with  a  wooden  paddle  fifteen  minutes.  Add 
some  flavoring  extract  To  smooth  over  the 
cake  cut  a  strip  of  writing  paper  an  inch  wide 
Bud,  stretching  it  between  the  hands,  draw  the 
edge  over  the  top  of  the  cake. 

To  make  a  border  put  some  of  the  icing  into  a 
cornet  made  of  writing  paper,  and  pinned.  Clip 
of  the  point,  and  the  pipe  of  icing  that  is  pressed 
out  can  be  laid  on  the  edge  of  the  cake  like  a 
braid.  Leaves  and  flowers  can  be  bought  ready 
made. 


Cut  a  sheet  of  note  paper  into  strips  two 
inches  wide,  and  double  them  lengthwise,  to 
make  the  width  of  a  knife  blade.  Cut  the  double 
edge  into  fringe  a  quarter  inch  deep.  Move  the 
edges  of  the  paper  one  higher  than  the  other, 
and  the  fringe  will  be  bowed  out  instead  of  lying 
flat.  Fasten  the  edge  that  way  with  a  touch  of 
corn  starch  paste  made  very  stiff.  Then  roll 
the  fringed  pieces  of  paper  around  a  pencil  and 
fasten  the  end  with  paste— if  to  be  slipped  over 
the  ends  of  frogs'  legs ;  but  if  for  cutlet  bones  of 
uncertain  size  wrap  them  just  before  serving, 
and  a  touch  of  the  very  stiff  paste  will  hold  them 
in  place. 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


ill 


596— Potted  Lake  Herrinir  or  Cisco. 

Take  one  dozen  small  lake  herring,  Cisco  or 
trout,  or  enougli  to  nearly  fill  the  jar  they  are  to 
tie  cooked  and  kept  in,  dresa  and  wipe  with  a 
dry  cloth;  strew  a  little  salt  in  and  over  them, 
and  let  them  lie  over  night ;  then  wipe  again  with 
a  dry  cloth  and  season  with  two  teaspoufuls  of 
white  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  o(  ground  cinves 
and  a  level  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  and  ground 
mace  together.  Then  put  the  fish,  with  their 
hacks  down,  in  the  Jar,  crowded  close  together. 
Melt  a  sufficient  quantity  of  fresh  butter,  probably 
three  pounds,  and  when  it  has  settled  pour  the 
clear  part  over  the  fish,  enough  to  cover  them. 
Put  a  greased  paper  and  a  lid  of  some  sort  on 
top  of  the  jar,  set  it  in  a  pan  of  water  and  bake 
it  so  in  a  slow  oven  about  four  hours.  Keep  in 
the  same  jar,  always  covered  with  butter,  in  a 
cool  place. 


596-  Curries. 

A  curry  may  be  described  as  a  brown  stew 
with  curry  powder  added  to  it. 

Cut  up  a  chicken,  veal,  lamb  or  whatever  is  to 
be  curried,  and  fry  the  pieces  in  cutter  until  the 
outside  of  them  is  a  very  light  brown,  and  while 
frying  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoonful  of  curry 
powder.  Then  put  in  a  minced  onion,  some  salt 
and  a  little  water  or  broth,  cover  with  the  lid  and 
simmer  until  the  meat  is  tender.  Take  the 
pieces  out  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  oft  the  grease  from 
the  pan  and  make  gravy  in  it  and  thicken  in  the 
usual  way  and  pour  it  over  the  meat.  It  is  cus- 
tomary to  serve  dry  boiled  rice  with  a  curry, 
and  a  border  to  the  dish  may  be  made  with  it 
and  the  curry  dished  in  the  center. 


597— Pressed  Corned  Beef. 

After  boiling  the  corned  beef  two  hours  take 
it  out  of  the  water — which  will  be  too  salt  when 
reduced  to  use  for  jelly — cut  in  pieces  size  of 
eggs  and  simmer  it  about  two  or  thiee  hours 
more,  using  fresh  water  if  no  clear  broth  is  to 
be  had,  and  only  just  enough  to  cover  it,  that  it 
may  stew  down  rich  enough  to  set  in  jelly 
when  cold.  Pour  it  into  a  deep  pan  when  done 
and  push  a  gravy  strainer  or  colander  down  into 
it;  the  liquor  will  rise  in  the  strainer,  and  the  fat 
can  be  skimmed  oil.  Put  a  plate  on  top  of  the 
meat  after  that  and  a  weight,  and  let  it  get  cold 
with  the  jelly  in  it. 

The  meat,  having  been  so  cut  in  pieces,  will 
be  evenly  mixed,  the  fat  with  the  lean,  all  through. 

Another  good  way  is  to  roll  up  streaiced  pieces 
and  tie  with  twine.  When  they  are  boiled  very 
tender  take  them  on  a  dish  and .  remove  the 
strings,  lay  them  in  a  long  mold  in  two  layers 
and  press  them  together  with  enough  of  the 
liquor  about  to  fill  up  the  spaces  with  jelly. 


59S--He:i(I  Cheese  and  BraTVJi. 

Much  the  same  as  pressed  corned  beef.  The  best 
or  the  variety  called  brawn  is  partly  corned  before 
boiling.  Where  it  would  take  a  week  in  pickle 
to  make  salt  pork  of  it,  let  the  head  to  be  made 
into  head  cheese  lie  in  it  only  3  days.  The 
pickle  or  brine  recipe  is  at  No.  106. 

Wash  the  head  and  boil  it  2  hours.  Cool  it, 
take  out  the  bones  and  cut  the  meat  in  pieces. 
Season  it  with  sage,  a  little  salt,  and  a  good  al- 
lowance of  pepper.  Strain  the  liquor  it  was  first 
boiled  in,  put  the  pieces  in  again  and  simmer  2 
hours  longer.  Press  in  a  pan,  or  else  put  it  into 
a  muslin  bag,  tie  and  press  in  a  pan  with  the 
honor  surrounding  it. 


599— Pork  Sausase. 

Twice  as  much  lean  as  fat.  To  fi  pounds  of 
the  chopped  meat  allow  a  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  the  same,  of  powdered  sage,  and  a  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  pepper  and  a  cup  of  water. 


600— Tomatii  Ketchup. 

^  bushel  of  tomatoes,  or  2.5  pounds. 

1  bay  leaf. 

3/<  head  of  garlic. 

-S  pints  of  vinegar 

1.^  cupful  of  salt 

I  tablespoonful  of  cayenne. 

1  ounce  of  bruised  peppercorns. 

1  of  blades  of  mace — i  tablespooufule. 

1  of  cloves — same. 

Wash  the  tomatoes  and  cut  out  the  green 
part  around  the  stem,  cook  them  at  the  side  of 
the  range  in  a  br  ght  kettlo  or  pan  and  a  lid  on, 
in  their  own  juice  and  steam  for  about  an  hour, 
and  the  spices,  garlic,  bay  leaf  and  pepper  vnth 
them.  Mash  them  through  a  colander  to  re- 
move the  skins,  then  put  the  pulp  through  a 
seive  that  will  not  let  the  seeds  go  throu^di.  Add 
the  vimgar  to  help  it  through,  for  the  siraining 
is  rather  tedious;  then  boil  it  down  to  half.  It 
is  difficult  to  keep  it  from  scorching  at  the  bot- 
tom. Use  a  broad  wouden  paddle  to  keep  it 
stirred  up  with,  and  make  the  catsup  at  a  time 
when  a  slow  fire  can  be  kept  for  it.  Bottle  it 
warm,  cork  down  and  seal. 


OBSERVATIONS    ON     TABLE     MANNERS. 


Fro7n  the  Chicago  Herald. 
More  people  receive  invitations  to  dinners 
and  receptions  that  know  how  to  accept  them. 
At  least  that  is  the  opinion  of  a  Chicago  lady, 
who,  to  cancel  her  social  obligations,  has  en- 
tertained very  largely  during  the  last  year.  It 
is  a  cruel  blow  to  upper-tendom,  and  all  the 
more  lamentable  because  of  its  truth.  Over- 
eating and  immoderate  drinking  are  the  most 
common  forms  of  bad  breeding,  and  the  raven- 


112 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


onsness  with  which  some  of  the  swells  gorge 
themselves  at  dinnei-  parties  and  luncheons 
■would  malie  a  cannibal  blush.  Ladies  who 
look  as  spiritual  as  though  they  lived  on 
dew  and  suulight  order  the  entire  menu, 
and  afterward  gorge  themselves  with  cream 
and  cake,  loading  their  pockets  with  the  fruits 
and  confections  which  they  cannot  devour.  Pre- 
cious young  men  are  frequently  seen  draining 
the  glasses  of  wine  which  some  waiter  has  left 
on  the  sideboard  for  half  a  dozen  guests.  It  is 
cusiomary  for  the  host  to  leave  a  supply  of  cigars 
in  the  gentlemen's  room  for  the  pleasure  of  such 
guests  aa  may  soon  find  the  hasty  compliments 
of  the  parlor  tedious.  One  such  thoughtful 
host  was  somewhat  nonplussed,  on  going  to  the 
guests'  chamber  for  a  quiet  smoke  with  a  friend, 
to  find  that  300  choice  Habanas  had  been  appro- 
priated by  the  gentlemen  who  honored  him  with 
their  company. 

let  all  guests  are  not  so  booiish,  and  for  the 
edification  of  the  timorous  the  following  obser- 
vations are  offered :  The  spirit  of  social  eti- 
quette in  olden  days  consisted  in  a  more  marked 
regard  for  ostentation  and  ceremony.  Modern 
hospitality  is  remarkable  for  simplicity,  avoiding 
all  unnecessary  display  of  plate,  raiments,  and 
the  manner  of  entertainment.  It  is  customary 
to  have  cards  presented  to  each  gentleman  sig- 
nifying the  lady  who  is  to  have  his  escort.  This 
saves  the  ladies  a  good  deal  of  embarrassment, 
as  it  is  never  proper  for  her  to  descend  to  the 
dining-room  alone,  and  even  though  her  neglect 
may  result  from  an  oversight,  it  is  none  the  less 
an  annoyance,  which  apologies  only  increase. 
When  dinner  is  aunounced  the  gentleman  offers 
his  left  arm,  when  possible,  to  keep  the  lady  next 
to  the  wall.  In  entering  the  dining-room,  if  the 
door-way  is  not  wide  enopgh  for  both  to  pass 
abreast,  the  gentleman  enters  first  taking  care 
not  to  turn  his  back  to  his  company ;  butswing- 
in,;  himself  in  with  a  graceful  bow  and  offering 
the  other  arm.  This  gives  the  lady  more  free- 
dom in  managing  her  train.  But  on  no  other 
occasion  should  a  gentleman  precede  a  lady. 
The  lady  of  the  house  should  always  be  es- 
corted to  the  table  by  the  most  honored  guest 
The  gentlemen  of  the  house  are  the  last  to  enter 
the  room.  If  the  company  is  small  the  carving 
is  done  by  the  host  No  more  difiicult  task  than 
that  ol  doing  the  honors  gracefully  could  be  im- 
posed. No  comments  should  be  made  by  the 
guests,  and  apologies  from  his  wife  or  daughter 
are  in  very  poor  taste,  as  well  as  aggravating. 

When  the  affair  is  conducted  on  a  grand  scale 
the  carving  is  done  by  the  servant  in  the  pantry, 
and  the  table  attendants  bring  in  the  plates  on  a 
silver  tray.  They  also  pass  round  the  table  with 
such  vegetables  or  table  luxuries  as  are  not 
served  individually.  The  table  is  tastefully 
dressed  with  fiowers  and  desserts,  in  which  case 
the  cloth  is  not  removed.     Great  display  is  never 


indicative  of  anything  but  shoddiness.  Good 
taste  suggest  simplicity  and  a  harmony  of  sur 
roundings  and  circumstances.  Insufficiency  of 
hght,  turning  off  part  of  the  burners,  making 
the  dining-room  fire  just  before  the  company 
enter  and  allowing  it  to  go  out  before  their  de- 
parture, is  certainly  a  sign  of  economy,  but 
may  be  instrumental  in  giving  the  host  a  sordid 
reputation.  The  guests  who  can  find  no  other 
topics  for  conversation  than  passing  compli- 
ments on  the  dishes,  viands  and  wines  are  cer- 
tainly to  be  pitied.  The  lady  of  the  house  is 
supposed  to  use  some  tact  in  leaving  the  table 
shortly  after  the  dessert  is  finished.  Some  hints 
given  to  the  ladies  at  either  side  are  telegraphed 
down  the  sides,  or  it  is  quite  proper  for  ladies 
who  are  in  the  midst  of  earnest  conversation  to 
follow  the  first  withdrawal  as  soon  as  it  is  po- 
litely convenient  Many  of  the  younger  gentle- 
men, and  those  averse  to  smoking  or  the  influ- 
ence of  the  bowl,  retire  with  the  ladies.  In  that 
case  coffee  is  served  in  the  parlor  earlier  than 
usual.  When  the  majority,  with  the  hostess,  re- 
tire, all  gentlemen  rise  and  remain  standing  un- 
til the  last  lady  has  disappeaaed. 

Ceremonials  differ  at  different  entertainments, 
but  there  are  some  formuiai  that  are  always  to 
be  observed.  At  large  dinners  soup  and  fish 
are  never  called  for  a  second  time.  When  asked 
for  a  choice  of  cuts  the  guest  should  always 
specify,  and  when  inquiry  is  made  as  to  whether 
the  light  or  dark  meat  of  poultry  is  pre- 
ferred, a  call  for  both  is  not  strictly  elegant,  as 
the  great  number  to  be  served  may  exhaust  the 
fowl  too  soon.  If  the  delighted  feaster  will 
avoid  the  embarrassment  of  having  to  leave 
some  course  untouched,  he  will  leave  the  crav- 
ings to  be  satisfied  on  the  dessert 

In  serving,  the  sauces,  vegetables  and  appe- 
tizers are  brought  in  on  separate  dishes,  or  at 
least  kept  distinct,  and  no  cultured  person  will 
hurt  the  taste  by  mixing  them.  No  plate  should 
be  loaded  nor  should  anybody  be  pressed  to  try 
a  certain  dish  or  have  a  new  supply.  If  he  is  an 
intelligent  individual  he  best  knows  how  to  show 
deference  to  his  stomach,  and  if  he  does  not,  it 
is  well  for  him  that  some  one  else  exercises 
that  civility.  While  it  is  often  impossible  to 
wait  for  the  entire  board  to  finish  a  course  it  is 
well  to  delay  until  your  immediate  neighbors 
have  finished  before  sending  away  the  plate.  At 
a  small  company  guests  should  wait  until  all  are 
served  before  beginning  to  eat,  unless  otherwise 
requested  by  the  host  In  that  case  the  guest 
can  display  the  nicety  of  culture  by  sip- 
ping water,  arranging  the  small  table  furni- 
ture, as  the  two  knives  and  forks,  pepper  and 
salt  cruets,  wine  glasses,  water  jug,  napkin 
holder,  or  prepare  his  fond.  It  is  different  at  a 
larger  affair,  where  couples  begin  the  course  as 
soon  as  served.  Crackers,  cubes  of  bread  and 
celery  are   taken    with   the   soup.     Celery  is    a 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


treacherous  vegetable,  and  unlesa  masticated 
noiselessly  will  brand  the  consumer.  Some  very 
polite  people  never  serve  it,  excepting  when 
chopped  up  and  dressed;  then  it  comes  with  the 
entree.  If  the  knives  are  steel,  fish  is  always 
eaten  with  a  small  fork  and  a  cube  of  bread, 
which  may  be  five  inches  long  and  one  and  a 
half  thick.  The  steel  will  corrode  on  touching 
the  fish.  But  even  when  plated  cutlery  is  used, 
the  knife  is  frequently  dispensed  with. 

So  much  has  been  said  about  the  vulgarity  of 
eating  with  the  knife  that  little  that  is  new  can 
be  offered  here.  The  knife  was  certainly  in- 
tended for  cutting  purposes,  yet  a  millionaire, 
who  may  take  precedence  in  financial  circles,  is 
denominated  a  boor  in  the  society  that  he  thus 
offends,  and  inwardly  detested  by  the  urbane. 
But  a  gentleman  is  never  so  much  a  gentleman 
as  when  he  has  a  knife  and  fork  in  his  hands 
and  knows  how  to  use  them.  Filling  the  mouth 
too  full  to  permit  conversation,  drinUing  and 
eating  noisily,  staring  around  the  table  over  the 
edge  of  a  cup  or  glass  while  drinking,  blowing 
hot  dishes,  pouring  tea  and  coffee  in  a  saucer 
and  getting  the  hiccoughs  are  vulgarisms  almost 
intolerable  to  the  refined. 

It  is  often  a  delicate  matter  to  know  just  what 
dishes  should  be  eaten  with  a  fork  and  spoon. 
Usually  all  vegetables  are  taken  to  the  mouth 
with  a  fork,  and  also  as  many  side  dishes  as  pos- 
sible. Peas,  beans,  succotash,  curry,  creams, 
ices,  puddings,  custards  and  fancy  pastry  are 
eaten  with  a  spoon.  Pie  and  melon  are  always 
mastered  with  a  fork.  The  best  authority  asserts 
that  all  articles  of  diet  should  be  taken  from  the 
side  of  the  spoon  rather  than  from  the  end.  And 
the  same  jud^e  decrees  that  the  spoon  shall  be 
filled  by  moving  it  away  from  the  individual 
rather  than  toward  him. 

In  eating  the  lips  should  always  be  Kept 
closed.  The  spoon  should  be  removed  from  the 
cup  and  placed  in  the  saucer  before  drinking ; 
nor  should  it  be  allowed  to  knock  against  the 
side  of  the  cup  in  stirring.  Bread,  cake,  rolls, 
etc.  should  always  be  broken  and  liept  on  the 
tablecloth  near  the  plate.  It  is  perfectly 
proper  to  pick  a  bone  and  take  corn  in 
the  fingers;  but  care  should  be  used  against 
soiling  the  mouth  and  hands.  Any  dis- 
agreeable article  that  may  be  found  on  the 
plate  should  be  quietly  ignored  without  call- 
ing the  attention  of  guests  or  host.  When  fin- 
ished the  knife  and  fork  are  laid  on  the  plate 
parallel  to  one  another,  with  the  handles  at  the 
right,  the  spoon  placed  in  the  cup  and  egg-shells 
crushed  on  the  plate.  It  is  also  one  of  the  nice- 
ties of  refined  society  that  the  table  be  left  as 
neat  as  possible.  Every  one  is  under  a  social 
obliKatiou  to  contribute  to  the  conversation, 
mirth  and  coni;euiality  of  the  table,  while  the 
lion  should  be  amiable  enough  not  to  monopo- 
lize^all  the  attention. 


A    LONG-FELT    WANT 


I  have  had  occasion  to  travel  considerably 
during  the  past  year,  and  at  half  the  houses  I 
stopped  the  biscuits  were  raw  at  the  bottom,  and 
either  as  heavy  as  lead  or  yellow  as  a  pumnkin 
with  soda,  while  the  meat  was  swimming  in 
grease.  Why,  it  is  enough  to  give  a  razor-back 
hog,  a  sheep-killing  dog  or  a  Bengal  tiger  dys- 
pepsia. And  then  the  coffee — how  delectable. 
What  it  is  mafie  of  I  have  not  the  slightest  idea; 
but,  whatever  it  is,  it  has  not  the  slightest  kin- 
ship to  genuine  Eio  or  the  delioiuusly  flavored 
Java.  Horace  Greeley  visited  the  South  soou 
after  the  war,  and  the  only  criticism  his  kina 
heart  made  was  in  these  memorable 
words:  "The  South  needs  SO, 000 cooks."  It 
would  not  have  been  prudent  for  Mr.  Greeley  to 
have  made  a  visit  to  the  South  before  the  war, 
but  if  he  had,  and  been  entertained  by  ^0,0UO 
farmers  and  planters,  he  would  have  said:  "The 
South  has  20,000  of  the  best  cooIls  in  the  world!" 
Southerners  always  educated  their  daughters, 
and  when  these  daughters  married  they  made 
their  home  attractive  in  various  ways,  and  espe- 
cially in  the  cooking  department  They  educated 
negro  women  in  the  art  of  cooking,  and  allowed 
them  to  do  nothing  else,  consequently  the  cook- 
ing was  excellent.  But  the  abolition  of  slavery 
also  abolished  good  cooking,  except  as  to  the 
negro  women  who  were  educated  by  their 
mistresses  in  the  culinary  art,  and 
the  mistresses  themselves.  I  heard  a 
gentleman  make  a  very  sensible  remark 
recently,  "Vanderbilt,  Peabody  and  Sla- 
ter have  given  millions  of  dollars  to  the 
cause  of  education  in  the  South,  and  I  honor 
them  as  great  benefactors  of  our  section ;  but  if 
I  had  several  millionsto  give  away,  I  would  es- 
tablish all  over  the  South  schools  in  which  the 
act  of  cooking  would  be  taught.  In  doing  this  I 
would  be  subserving  the  cause  of  morality  and 
religion,  as  well  as  of  civilization  and  humanity. 
Properly-cooked  food  causes  health,  andperfeot 
health  is  conducive  to  good  temper,  cheerful- 
ness, kind  feeling,  eflioient  and  capable  work, 
mental  and  physical,  while  badly  cooked  food 
produces  indigestion;  indigestion  causes  bad 
health  in  every  part  of  the  human  system, 
fretfulness,  hatefulness,  discontent,  poor  menial 
and  physical  labor,  and  renders  life  a  curse 
to  hiniselt  and  all  those  around  him.  A  man 
cannot  be  a  true  Christian,  in  all  that  means,  if 
he  is  fed  upon  badly  cooked  food  all  his  days. 
The  great  need  of  the  country  is  good  cooks  and 
plenty  of  them.  Young  ladies  should  beiustructed 
in  the  art,  both  at  school  and  at  home.  It  is  time 
the  country  was  awakening  to  this  great  need. 
A  well-to-do  parent  spenils  ?500  to  give  his 
daughter  a  musical  eduoatijn,  and  another  $5  00 


114 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


to  bny  her  a  piano,  and  nine  chances  to  one  she 
never  plays  oa  it  a  year  after  her  marriage.  If 
that  S:i,uUO  were  spent  in  sjiving  her  a  practical 
and  theoretical  knowledge  of  cooldng,  it  would 
be  far  better  for  her  and  infinitely  better  for  her 
futui'e  husband  and  children."  The  man  who 
made  these  remarks  is  married,  and  has  three 
beauliful  daughters— "hence  these  tears." — 
Correspondent  Nashville  (Tenn.)  American. 


SOCIETY'S    FAVORITE    FLORAL    GEMS. 


There  is  probably  no  metropolis  in  the 
■n'orld,  says  the  New  York  Star,  where  the  beau- 
tiful iu  flowers  is  more  sought  for  than  in  this 
citv  where  the  society  belle  would  as  soon  face 
a  water  famine  as  a  dearth  m  the  supply  of  her 
favorite  bouquets,  composed  of  the  richest, 
rarest  and  most  expensive  products  of  the  botan- 
ical kingdom.  According  to  the  statements  of  a 
number  of  the  leading  ilorists,  there  is  a  wanton 
extravagance  in  the  fragrant  productions  of  the 
nursery  or  hot  house,  for  of  late  even  a  private 
parlor  entertainment  is  considered  as  nothing  if 
the  choicest  buds  and  buuquets  are  not  strewn 
around  in  profusion.  For  the  purpose  of  learn- 
in"  something  of  the  demand  for  the  beauties  of 
the  garden,  a  Star  reporter  called  upon  one  of 
the  leading  florists  of  the  city.  That  gentleman 
is  of  a  decided  poetic  turn  of  mind,  and  the  mo- 
ment the  subject  was  mentioned  he  began  by 
saying : 

'■Flowers  are  like  children,  sir;  symbols  of 
love,  nature's  offspring,  and  the  jewels  of  God. 
To  be  without  them  would  be  like  life  on  a  bar- 
ren island  He  who  loves  not  flowers  cannot 
love  children.  Nothing  will  refine  our  little 
ones  more  than  their  early  introduction  to  flow- 
ers. " 

"I  came  rather,"  said  the  reporter,  "to  inquire 
as  to  the  styles  in  flowers,  their  prices,  and  the 
demand  for  them." 

"Tiie  styles  vary  like  everything  else,  and  what 
is  worn  nieiitifuUy  this  week  is  cast  aside  the 
next,"  said  the  florist. 

"Are  there  not  some  flowers  that  are  always  in 
demand?"  was  asked. 

"Yes,  yon  can  dispose  of  purs  lilies  or  large 
red  roses  at  any  time,  and  like  everything  else, 
iho  scarcer  they  are  of  course  the  dearer  they 
get  to  be.  Let  me  show  you  a  specimen.  Bes- 
sie, bring  that  bouquet  ordered  by  that  actress." 

The  bouquet  was  a  gem,  a  marvel  of  artistic 
skill.  In  the  center  was  a  magnificent  lily,  sur- 
rounded by  rosebuds  and  lilies  of  the  valley. 

"Look  at  that  lily, "  said  the  botanical  scientist, 
throwing  himself  into  an  attitude  of  extreme 
admiration.  "Is  it  not  a  beauty?  Tall,  stately 
and  almost  transparent.  Look  at  those  rosebuds. 
Are  they  not  charming?  Oh,  it  is  a  pity  to  think 
that  they  must  wither  and  dit:.      That  bouquet, 


sir,  is  to  be  presented  at  the  footlights  to  one  of 
our  leading  actresses  to-night " 

"How  much  does  such  a  bouquet  cost?"  in- 
quired the  reporter. 

"A  few  years  ago  a  gem  like  that  would  have 
cost  at  least  $100.  To-day  I  can  afford  to  make 
it  up  for  S.50.  You  want  to  know  why  it  is  that 
the  prices  of  flowers  have  fallen  so  much.  Well, 
I'll  tell  you.  The  secret  is  that  I  grow  all  ray 
flowers  right  in  the  rear  of  these  premises.  It  I 
was  compelled  to  purchase  flowers  from  any 
botanist,  why  of  course  I  could  not  afford  to  sell 
them  so  cheap.  Within  the  past  four  or  five 
years  all  descriptions  of  flowers  have  fallen  in 
price." 

"I  understand  you  made  the  first  bouquet  that 
was  presented  to  Mrs.  Langtry,  the  Jersey  Lily, 
on  her  arrival  in  this  country?"  said  the  reporter. 
"How  much  did  that  cost?" 

"It  cost  $1.50,"  was  the  answer.  A  few  years 
ago  it  would  have  sold  for  ?f300.  There  were 
three  large  letters  in  the  center  resting  on  a  bed 
of  roses.  Then  there  were  two  borders  of 
smaller  li  ies  of  the  choicest  kind,  while  the  out- 
side border  was  woven  into  Mrs.  Langtry's 
name.  I  think,  without  exception,  it  was  the 
most  artistic  piece  of  workmanship  that  ever 
passed  through  my  hands," 

"Might  I  inquire  who  j)reh,onfed  the  bouquet  to 
Mrs.  Langtry?" 

"It  would  not  be  professional  to  give  the  name, 
but  it  was  a  very  prominent  citizen,"  whispered 
the  florist. 

"What  do  those  bouquets  the  ladies  wear  on 
their  bosom  cost — I  mean  the  choicest?"  queried 
the  reporter. 

"That  depends  upon  what  they  are  composed 
of,"  said  the  florist,  "I  have  a  number  of  stand- 
ing orders  from  some  of  the  richest  families  up- 
town to  supply  them  daily  with  small  bouquets, 
which  average  from  $3  to  $5  each.  You  would 
be  astonished  at  the  quantity  of  daisies  and 
violets  we  sell  for  the  same  purpose,  so  that  the 
beauties  of  the  field,  which  you  can  gatlier  at 
will  in  summer,  cannot  be  bought  for  less  than 
$5.  Apropos  of  these  sentiments,  the  following 
lines  are  expressive  of  the  association  of  joy  and 
grief  just  referred  to : 

Flowers  are  the  gentlest  emblem 

We  wear  upon  the  heart ; 

With  flowers  we  crown  the  victor. 

The  queens  of  song  and  art. 

With  flowers  we  speed  the  parting 

And  greet  the  coming  friend ; 

Enhanced  by  every  fragrance, 

Our  friendship's  vows  we  send. 

Place  flowers  upon  the  bier, 

'i'he  wreath  upon  the  breast ; 

Then  leave  the  cue  we  held  so  dear 

Among  the  flowers  to  rest. 
"Is  there    any  particular  flower   that  is  the 
favorite  at  this  season  of   the  year?"   hJ    was 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


115 


"Yes;  here  are  some  jacqueminot  roses,"  he 
said.  "They  are  the  favorites  just  at  present, 
aiul  are  in  great  demand.  The  'Jack'  rose  is  a 
very  delicate  creature,  and,  although  I  grow, 
nurse  and  care  for  them  myself,  I  cannot  possibly 
sell  them  under  SI  each.  Formerly  they  used  to 
cost  as  high  as  $3  and  $5  apiece.  You  have  no 
idta  of  the  immense  sums  of  money  that  are  ex- 
expended  yearly  m  this  city  on  flowers,  and  I  am 
free  to  admit  that  there  is  a  great  extravagance 
displayed.  You  can  go  to  the  Academy  of  Music 
on  any  gala  night  and  reclion  the  price  of  the 
flowers  worn  by  the  thousands  of  dollars." 

"Is  there  any  change  in  the  style  of  wedding 
flowers  this  season  ?" 

"Nothing  particular,"  answered  the  florist,  "ex- 
cept that  for  weddings  floral  displays  are  not  at 
all  what  they  used  to  be,  notwithstandiug  the 
great  reduction  in  prices. " 

"How  about  funeral  supplies?" 

"There  is  a  marked  falling  off  m  the  demand 
for  funeral  floral  offeriogs.  We  malie  most  of 
our  bouquets  this  winter  for  street  wear,  and  in 
my  mind  there  is  nothing  can  compare  with  a 
bunch  of  bright  roses  for  the  fair-complexioned: 
the  dark  jacqueminot  for  the  brunette  Then 
you  have  the  Aiarshal  Neil,  the  mermaid  and 
the  beautifiil  Malmaison,  and  the  simple,  but 
magnificent,  pear!  defan — all  of  which  coat  from 
«1  tollO." 

CURIOSITIES  OF  OLD  COOK  BOOKS. 


One  thing  that  it  is  perfectly  plain  to  be 
seen  is  that  there  has  always  been  an  insur- 
mountable difliculty  in  finding  suitable  names 
for  the  cook's  dishes  after  they  were  made,  ami, 
bad  as  the  corrupted  French  terms  are  which 
constitute  tue  modern  absurdities  of  bills  of  fare, 
could  some  experienced  gourmand  of  a  hundred 
years  ago  awake,  like  Kip  Yan  Winkle,  and  go 
about  to  break  his  fast  at  the  public  eating 
houses  he  o  .uld  be  just  as  unintelligible  whi:e 
employing  only  the  terms  that  were  in  common 
use  among  the  housewives  of  his  youthful  days. 
He  would  not,  perhaps,  call  for  "an  Indian  devil," 
that  not  being  a  strictly  uuoommon  article,  al- 
though he  would  have  the  satisfaction  of  seeing 
this  one  served  up  on  toast,  for  it  is  a  piece  of 
meat  made  red  hot  with  chutney,  cayenne  and 
walnut  ketchup;  nor  "a  wet  devil,"  which  is  not 
necessarily  as  mad  as  the  traditional  wet  hen, 
for  it  is  only  a  broil  with  a  hot  and  peppery 
sauce  poured  over  it;  or  "a  dry  devil,"  a  very 
proper  and  orthodox  affair  beautifully  grilled 
over  the  coals,  without  a  drop  of  moisture  other 
than  hot  butter  to  bathe  io.  These  three  were 
well  known  to  the  novelists  of  our  grandfather's 
time.  But  ho  might  oal  for  "dumpokht,"  a  dish 
of  stuffed  Idd  mentioned  in  the  Arabian  Nights, 
but  modernized  to  mean  a  hare  cooked 
with  almonds  and  raisins,  or  "mumbled  rabbit^," 
which  is  minced  rabbit  meat  stirre4   with   eggs 


over  the  tire  like  scrambled  brains;  or  some 
"ked,.^eree,"  a  mixture  of  minced  cold  meat,  hard 
boiled  eg^s  and  cooked  rice  all  scrambled  to- 
gether over  the  fire,  and  different  from  "saltna- 
gnndi,"  because  the  latter  consists  of  minced 
meat,  tongue  and  eggs  served  cold  and  orna- 
mentally, which  he  mii^ht  have  in  place  of  a 
salad,  or  even  an  "Indian  kabob,"  v/hich  no  odo 
would  preteud  was  a  thine  in  too  common  de- 
mand, altbought  it  is  only  a  skewer  full  of  little 
mutton  steaks  with  sliced  apples  strung  on  be- 
tween each  one,  seasoned  with  turmeric  and  cay- 
enne, fried  in  butter  and  served  with  rice.  "Ke- 
bobbed  mutton"  would  take  more  time  and 
trouble  to  prepare,  as  it  needs  roasting,  being  a 
loin  sliced  down  to  the  bone  and  stuffing  inserted 
iiithecu:s,  but  if,  when  they  had  ke bobbed  it, 
it  had  not  been  kebobbed  enough,  be  could  send 
it  back  and  make  them  kebob  it  some  more. 

As  for  ve;;etables,  he  might  demand  "fregahead 
greens"  that  are  shut  in  a  saucepan  with  batter 
and  onions,  and  cooked  so  without  water,  and 
bread  different  from  other  people's  would  have 
been  "tadge,"  a  sort  of  graham  flour  short-cake 
with'iut  any  "rising"  in  it,  baked  in  a  skillet  on 
top  of  the  stove. 

A  number  of  bills  of  fare  might  thus  be  made 
up  of  articles  that  would  have  a  tendency  to 
drive  the  restaurant  men  to  the  verge  of  distrac- 
tion, as  they  understand  scarcely  anything  but 
■  French.  At  one  time  it  might  be  "pereqne 
turkey,"  not  like  the  common,  with  cran- 
berry sauce,  but  stuck  full  of  trufBes, 
steeped  in  wine  over  night  and  roasted  next 
day;  "a  pupton  of  pigeons,"  a  sort  of  pie, 
or  rather  a  "torrine"  of  pigeons,  having  bread 
stuffing  for  the  bottom  antj  top  crust;  "a  dune- 
lem  of  veal,"  minced  veal  and  mushrooms  in 
brown  gravy,  on  toast;  "pod(U'iesof  beef,"  which 
are  fried  patties  with  beef  filling;  "gobbets  of 
beef,"  stewed  beef  thickened  with  vegetables 
and  rice;  "sansartees  mutton,"  curry  of  mutton 
on  skewers,  or"bobotee;"  another  curry  of  meat 
and  almonds  baked.  "China  chilo"  might  be  re- 
ferred to  the  editor  of  the  new  Chinese  news- 
paper, to  see  it  it  be  genuine  Chinese.  It  has 
the  nredominant  L  in  it  anyway,  and  besides  that 
is  made  of  minced  mutton,  onions,  lettuce  and 
green  peas  simmered  together  anu  served  in  a 
border  of  rice.  For  sauces  and  relishes  there 
are  "aristocratique  sauce,"  a  mixture  of  walnut 
ketchup  and  port  wine,  and  "bailaohony,"  made 
of  pounded  shrimps,  ginger  and  onions. 

That  fine  cook,  good  old  Mrs.  Adjective,  has 
left  us  an  entirely  different  assortment,  among 
which  "disguised  love,"  a  calf's  head  coated  an 
inch  thick  outside  with  Btuffiug  and  then  baUed, 
if  not  more  misleading  than  "bombarded  veal," 
which,  so  far  from  meaidnp;  a  cannonaded  calf, 
is  but  stuffed  veal  cut  like  kebobbed  rauton  and 
boiled  spinach  crammed  into  the  gaps,  then 
baked  with  paste  over  the   dish,  or  "surpriBed 


116 


CHICAGO    HERALD    COOKING    SCHOOL. 


rabbits,"  which  are,  in  fact,  surprised  at  nothing, 
although  the  diner?,  may  be,  finding  the  meat  of 
the  r.ibbits  has  been  removed,  r-  dueed  to  a  paste 
and  aeasoned,  and  plastered  on  the  carcass  asain 
in  the  original  form  and  then  browned.  "Turkey 
in  a  hurry"  in  this  case  has  no  reference  to  a 
turkey  travel  ug  across  lots  just  before  Thanks 
giv'ng,  nor  has  "pu  led  turi»ey"  the  meaning 
that  seems  ao  obvious  after  the  bird  lias  been 
caught.  On  the  contrary,  tliey  were  regularly 
tinished  dishes  that  m  gl.t  be  called  for  at  any 
public  bouse,  just  like  "jugged  liare,"  a  hare  cut 
up  and  cooked  bv  baking  m  a  jarclo  ely  covered, 
or  "snipes  in  Burtont,"  ba!  ed  in  a  p  e  like  a  pup- 
ton  of  1  igeons,  with  the  crust  of  bread  =tufiiug. 
"Cropped  heads,"  "green  caps"  and  "light 
wigs,"  if  they  were  inquired  for  at  any  of  our 
bon-ton  restaurants  would  probably  lead  to  the 
inquirer  being  carried  to  a  barber's  shop,  but  it 
was  not  always  thus.  Cropped  heads  are  stuffed 
Laddock'a  heads,  breaded  and  fried;  green  caps 
are  greening  apples,  carefully  baked  and  a  cap 
of  frosting  placed  on  top,  and  light  wigs  are 
light  batter  cakes;  we  call  them  "flannel  calies," 
but  they  had  the  old  name  when  white  pow- 
dered wigs  were  worn  "Cats'  tongues"  were 
eaten  then  as  now.  They  are,  however,  only  a 
variety  of  tlie  cakes  called  lady  fingers.  Our  lady 
of  the  bombarded  veal  exhibits  the  ruling  pas- 
sion to  the  last,  and  gives  us  "a  grateful  pud- 
ding" for  a  benedicti'.m.  Still,  as  one  can  be 
sure  of  notliing  in  the  names,  this  may  mean 
only  that  it  will  be  a  grate  full  if  thrown  into  the 
fire.  For  "a  Scotch  woodcock"  mi,'ht  be  bought 
at  any  season  without  refi-rence  to  the  laws  for 
the  protection  of  game,  it  being  as  innocent  of 
meat  as  a  Welsh  rabbit,  being,  in  fact,  a  iiile  of 
anchovy  toast  with  cream  sance  poured  over  it, 
as  far  from  the  thing  hinted  at  as  a  Devonshire 
squab  pie,  which  has  not  the  slightest  relation- 
ship to  a  pie  of  young  pigeons.  "Between  two 
stools  we  coma  to  the  ground,"  eays  the  old 
proverb.  In  this  manner  we  have  not  now  a 
distinctive  name  for  a  ens  ard  pie.  It  is  bad 
enou.;h  for  ti.e  common  comprehension  for  the 
Frencb  to  call  it  a  "flan,"  but  not  a  whit  more 
strange  than  the  old  English  name  "downset," 
and  while  calling  everything  a  cream,  even 
fried  craam  and  cream  fritters,  we  have  forgot- 
ten the  old  word  "fraze,"  belonging  especially 
to  articles  like  almond  porridge,  to  be 
cut  when  cold  and  fried,  and  if  placed  in  fan- 
like order  in  a  dish  called  "palm-tree  pudding." 
Not  that  the  names  of  puddings  were  always  in- 
telligible, for,  while  a  reason  may  be  found  for 
"qualiing  pudding,"  seeing  that  it  consists  of 
custard,  boiled  in  a  mold,  and  is  quite  shaky  on 
its  foundations,  it  is  not  so  clear  why  "fun  pud- 
ding" should  be  named  so.  It  is  a  dish  of  sliced 
apples,  with  jam  on  top,  and  an  arrowroot  cus- 
tard to  fill  up,  and  baked.  It  must  be  gues  ed 
where  the  fun  comes  in.  Perhaps  it  is  with  the 
"Jersey  wonders,"  which,  like  other  wonders,  as 


a  prominent  actress  is  showing,  will  never  cease, 
although  they  may  have  new  names.  These  are 
crullers,  or  fried  cakes.  Speaki:igof  name^,  how- 
ever, "Michael  Angelo  pudding"  is  quite  an  im- 
posing designation,  and,whenit  is  desired  to  know 
what  sort  of  pudding  that  great  man  delighted 
in  it  is  found  to  be  a  cheese  caUe  made  of  cream 
and  baked  in  a  dish  lined  with  fine  bread  crumbs, 
and  a  Mi:ton  pudding  is  a  rich  bran  ly  custard 
with  sponge  cake  crumbled  in  it  and  boiled  in  a 
m  jld,  wliich,  it  is  to  be  hoped,  does  not  tend  to 
scandalize  the  blind  poet;  and  "Hannah  More's 
pudding"  is  a  delicate  sort  of  plum  nudding  like 
that  one  still  known  as  "Eve's.  "Polka  pudding" 
is  quite  a  m'tdern  affair  and  quite  interesting,  it 
being  a  hollowed- out  sponge  cake  filled  with  ice- 
cream, the  top  put  on,  brandy  put  over  and  set 
on  fire,  in  which  blazing  condition  it  is  waltzed 
into  the  dining-room,  followed  very  naturally  by 
"polonaise  cake,"  and,  for  fear  these  should  not 
please  every  guest,  there  is  another  pudding  of 
the  lemon  cream  pie  sort  that  has  not  a  word  to 
Its  name  but  general  satisfaction. " 


TOOTHPICKS. 


Imagine  a  lady  in  faultless  attii'e,  handsome 
and  admirable,  with  a  tootnpick  in  her  mouth. 
The  spectacle  is  not  pleasing.  Or  imagine  a  din- 
ner party,  the  last  course  of  which  consists  of 
toothpicks  handed  around  by  the  waiters  and 
then  applied  by  the  whole  company.  The  sight 
is  perfectly  unpleasant.  Every  civilized  man, 
woman  and  child  has  the  right  to  use  a  tooth- 
pick, but  have  they  the  right  to  use  toothpicks 
to  the  discomfort  of  others?  And  to  fine  organi- 
zations the  visible  use  of  the  toothpick  is  a  source 
of  disgust.  A  man  who  uses  a  toothpick  in  pub- 
lic shows  either  that  he  is  not  aware  of  the  an- 
noyance which  he  gives  to  others  or  he  deties 
good  manners  and  prefers  to  be  set  down  indeli- 
cate and  gross.  The  same  rule  applies  w  th 
double  force  to  woman,  for  women  are  the  nat- 
ural and  conventional  guardians  of  good  nian- 
nera.  When  sensible  men  are  in  doubt  on  a 
matter  of  politeness  or  propriety  they  consult  a 
lady.  What,  then,  can  be  said  of  a  lady  who 
carries  a  toothpick  in  her  mouth?  She  might  as 
well  rinse  her  mouth  or  brush  her  teeth  in  pub- 
lic. 

The  truth  is  that  the  associations  of  a  tooth- 
picl;  are  necessarily  indelicate,  for  the  toothpick 
reminds  one  of  bad  teeth  or  food  particles  held 
i[i  tho  wrong  place.  The  toothpick  is,  therefore, 
a  toilet  article,  and  ranlis  with  the  toothbrush, 
the  nail  cleaner  or  the  earspoon.  These  articles 
have  to  be  used,  but  not  in  public.  Every  hand 
is  marred  by  unclean  finger-nails,  but  tne  naiis 
ought  not  tj  be  cleaned  in  public.  Nor  should 
teeth  be  brushed  or  picked  in  pnblc.  In  l.otel 
lobbies  there  are  always  men — not  really  gentle- 
men— and,  alas!  occasionally  women,  with  a 
toothpick  in  their  mouth.  Quite  likely  these 
same  persona  eat  with  their  knives  and  cut  tlieir 
finger-nails  at  the  dinner  table.  But  in  this 
matter  their  example  is  not  commendable. 


WHAT  SHALL  WE  HAVE 

FOR 

DINNER?" 


CHICAGO  HERALD  COOKING  SCHOOL. 


119 


HERALD  (BOOKING  SGHOOL 

MENUS. 


MENU  No.  I.— DINNER.     Page  5. 

New  England  Boiled  Corned  Beef. 

Boiled  Salt  Pork. 

Potatoes.         Turnips.  Beets.         Parsnips. 

Carrots.         Onions.        Cabbage. 

Apple  Dumplings  Cooked  in  Sauce. 

Tapioca  Jelly  with  Cream. 

Sugar  Cakes. 

MENU  No.  II  —SUPPER.     Page  7. 

Cracked  Wlieat.         Mush  and  Milk. 

Rechauffe  of  Beef,  Veal  or  Mutton. 

Dish  of  Cold  Meat.  Potato  Salad. 

French  Rolls  and  Butter. 

Stewed  Fruit. 

MENU  No.   IV.— DINNER.     P»g9  11. 

SOUP. 
Celery  Cream. 

FISH. 
Boiled  Salmon  Steak. 
HoUandaise  Potatoes. 

REMOVE. 

Roast  Chicken  Stuffed  with  Oysters. 
Asparagus  on  Toast. 
ENTREES. 
Sweetbreads  Sautes  in  Butter. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese,  Bechamel. 

ROMAN  PUNCH. 

GAME. 

Mallard  Duck,  Apple  Sauce 

Celery  Salad. 

SWEETS  AND  DESSERT. 

Queen  Fritters,  Transparent  Sauce. 

White  Cocoanut  Pie. 

Coffee  Ice  Cream.      Sliced  Pears  in  Syrup. 

Almonds.     Jelly  Cake.      Raisins. 


MENU  Nc.  III.— BREAKFAST.     Page  9- 

Braized  Beef  Rolls  and  Mashed  Potatoes. 

Corn  Mock  Oysters. 

C;raham  Muffins.      Rice  Batter  Cakes. 

Doughnuts.       Ginger  Snaps. 

MENU   No    VI.— RECEPTION.     Page  17. 

Bouillon. 
Chicken  Cutlets. 

Small  Potato  Croquettes. 

Lobster  Salad. 

Napoleon  Pastry.  Macaroon  Cake. 

Frothed  Jelly  in  Glasses. 

White  Citron  Cake.         Orange  Ice. 

Fruit. 

Coffee.  Tea. 

MENU  VII. -GENTLEMEN'S  SUPPER.     Page  :o. 

Broiled  Porter-house  Steak. 

Fresh  Mushrooms.        Frizzed  Potatoes 

Oyster  Omelet.       Welsh  Rarebit. 

Turkey  Salad. 

Macaroon  Tarts.     Nesselrode  Ice  Cream. 

Pound  Cake.     Crackers.     Cheese. 

MENU  No.  VIII.-BREAKFAST.     Page  24. 

Stewed  Chicken  with  Egg  Dumplings. 

Codtish  Balls.  Steamed  Brown  Bread. 

Bread  Batter  Cakes.       Crullers. 

MENU  No.  IX.— LUNCHEON.     Page  26. 

Brook  Trout  in  Cases. 

English  Brown  Bread. 

Boned  Ducks  with  Jelly. 

Olives.  pickles.  Slaw. 

Orange  Transparent  Tarts. 

Fruit. 


120 


CHICAGO  HERALD  COOKING  SCHOOL. 


MENU  v.— TEA.     Page  15. 

Lamb  Cutlets  and  Toast. 

Shrimp  Salad.  Minced  Potatoes 

French  Rusks.     Cranberry  Sauce. 

MENU  No.  X.— DINNER.     Page  28. 

SOUP. 

Scotch  Barley. 

FISH. 

Baked  Mackinaw  Trout. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

REMOVE. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton,  Caper  Sauce. 

Kentucky  Corn  Pudding. 

Radish  Greens. 

PASTRY  AND  DESSERT. 

Boiled  Suet  Pudding,  Wine  Sauce. 

Lemon  Pie. 

Scotch  Seed  Cake.         Cream  Cheese. 

Cornstarch  Blanc  Mange. 

Cider.  Butteraiilk. 

MISCELLANEOUS   RECIPES.     Page  29. 

Corned  Beef  Brine. 

Potato  Yeast. 

Dry  Yeast  Cakes. 

Cream  Cheese. 

Sour  Milk  Cheese  or  Smearkase. 

Pickles,  Various. 

Home-made  Vinegar. 

MENU  No.  XI.— DINNER.     Page  31. 

SOUP. 

Consomme  Royal. 

Lettuce.  Bermuda  Tomatoes. 

FISH. 

Broiled  Shad,  Maitre  d' Hotel. 

Potatoes  Francaise. 

REMOVE. 

Roast  Ham  and  Spinach. 

Parsnip  Fritters. 

ENTREE. 

Baked  Celery  and  Cheese,  Italienne. 

SWEETS  AND  DESSERT. 

Birdsnest  Pudding  with  Sweet  Cream. 

Lemon  Pie. 

Boston  Cream  Cakes. 


MENU  No.  XIII.— DINNER.     Page  35. 

Calf's  Head  Soup. 

Forced  Cucumbers.  Lettuce. 

Broiled  Salmon  Steak. 

New  Potatoes. 

Roast  Rib  Ends  of  Beef. 
Yorkshire  Pudding. 

Calf's  Head  Breaded. 
Stewed  Oyster  Plant. 

Lemon  Cream  Pie.     Strawberry  Meringue. 

Small  Sponge  Cakes.     Frozen  Custard. 

Cocoanut  Candy. 

MENU  No.  XIV.— DINNER.     Page  37. 

SOUP. 
Mock  Turtle  with  Quenelles. 

Small  Patties,  au  Salpicon. 

FISH. 
Baked  Whitefish.  Tartar  Sauce. 

Dauphine  Potatoes. 
REMOVE. 
Roast  Beef. 
ENTREES. 

Cioquettes  of  Brains. 

Calf's  Head,  Vinaigrette. 

Banana  Fritters. 

VEGETABLES. 

Browned  Parsnips.  String  Beans. 

Potatoes  in  Cream. 

PASTRY  AND  DESSERT. 

Boiled  Plum  Pudding,  Brandy  Sauce. 

Rhubarb  Pie.  Chocolate  Cream  Tarts. 

Tutti-Frutti.  Jelly  Roll. 

Nuts.  Raisins.  Figs. 

MENU  No,  XV —DINNER.     Page  40. 

Mutton  Stew  with  Vegetables. 

Buttermilk  Biscuits. 
Baked  Rice  and  Milk  Pudding. 


CHICAGO  HERALD  COOKING  SCHOOL. 


121 


MENU  No.  XII.— DINNER.     Page  33. 

MENU  No.  XX. -DINNER.     Page  43. 

Consomme  Sevigne. 

Potato  Cream  Soup. 

Boiled  Red  Snapper,  Shrimp  Sauce. 

Boiled  Pickerel  with  Green  Peas. 

Duchesse  Potatoes 





Stuffed  Brisket  of  Veal. 

Roast  Lamb,  Mint  Sauce. 

Summer  Squash. 

New  Green  Peas.         Browned  Potatoes. 





Steamed  Cherry  Pudding,  Hard  Sauce. 

Bread  Custard  Pudding. 

Lemon  Pie.              Cake. 



Ice  Cream. 

Cheese.                             Frait. 

Cheese.            Raisins.             Nuts. 

MENU  No.  XVI  —DINNER      Page  41. 

MENU  No.  XXI.— DINNER.     Page  45. 

Onion  Soup. 

Cauliflower  Cream  Soup. 

Breast  of  Mutton  Boiled  or  Fried. 

Bluefish  Stuffed  and  Baked. 

Mashed  Rutabagas. 

Pigeon  or  Squab    Pie. 

Lettuce  Salad. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Boiled  Cornmeal  Pudding  with  Sauce. 
Hot  Water  Ginger  Cake. 

Floating  Island. 

Frozen  Strawberry  Punch. 

Italian  Cakes. 

MENU  No.  XVII. -DINNER.     Page  41. 

MENU  No.  XXIM.- BREAKFAST.     Page  47. 

Scotch  CoUops  in  Demi-glaze. 
Roasted  Onions. 

Eels  Breaded  and  Fried. 
Saratoga  Potatoes. 

Hot  Slaw. 

Broiled  Liver  and  Bacon. 
Corn  Batter  Cakes. 

Boiled  Molasses  Roll. 
Milk.                                Fruit. 

Fried  Mush.     Wheat  Muffins. 
Chocolate. 



MENU  No.  XXII  -SUPPER.     Page  46. 

MENU  No   XVIII.— DINNER.     Page  42, 





Cornmeal  Mush  and  Milk. 

Beef  Pot  Pie. 

Broiled  Liver.           Smoked  Haddock. 

Boiled  Potatoes.        Light  Dumplings. 

Vienna  Rolls.       Baked  Apples. 



Sponge  Gingerbread.                Cookies. 

Boiled  Cornstarch  Puddiug. 



Stewed  Apples. 

MENU  No   XXV.— TEA      Page  50. 

MENU  No.  XIX— DINNER.     Page  43. 

Salt  Mackerel  Boiled  or  Broiled. 



Potted  Veal. 

Beef  Heart  Stuffed  and  Baked. 

Calf's  Liver,  a  la  Brochette. 

Boiled  Navy  Beans. 

Cauliflower  Salad. 

Washington  Pie. 

Sally  Lunn  Tea  Cakes.     Small  Charlottes. 

122                         CHICAGO  HERALD  COOKING  SCHOOL 

MENU  No.  XXIV, -DINNER.     Page  49. 

MENU  No.  XXVIII.— GENTLEMEN'S  SUPPER.    Page  57. 

Tomato  Soup. 

Oyster  Soup. 

Fried  Bass  with  Bacon. 

Boiled  Middle  Cut  of  Salmon. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

Potato  Boulettes. 

Boiled  Beef,  Horseradish  Sauce. 

IJouble  Tenderloin  Steaks. 

Cauliflower  in  Cream. 

Egg  Plant  Fried  in  Batter. 

Larded  Liver  with  Onions. 

Pain  de  FoieGras.          Lobster  Salad. 

Egg  Plant  Fried  Plain. 

Macaroni  and  Tomatoes. 

Frozen  Maraschino  Punch. 

Spanish  Pufif  Fritters. 

Bavarian  Cream.       Pound  Fruit  Cake. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. 
Sliced  Apple  Pie.          Small  Cream  Cal<eb. 

MENU  No.  XXIX.- BREAKFAST.     P.igG  50. 

Lemon  Sherbet. 

Oatmeal  Mush  and  Milk. 

MENU  No.  XXVI. -RECEPTION.      Page  52. 

Spring  Chicken,  Maryland  Style. 
Poached  Eggs. 

Consomme  aux  Petits  Pois. 

Fried  Sweet  Potatoes. 
Fried  Apples. 

Chicken  Patties. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. 
Boston  Brown  Bread. 

Frogs'  Saddles  on  Toast. 

Buckwheat  Cakes.     Jumbles. 

Stewed  Com  and  Tomatoes. 

Fried  Macaroni,  Genoise. 

MENU  No.  XXX.— LUNCHEON.     Page  61. 

Cold  Roast  Ham. 
Egg  Salad. 

Consomme  aux  Pates  d'ltalie. 

Cream  Puffs.           Grape  Ice. 
Glazed  Eclairs.     White  Sponge  Cake.   ■ 

Lobster  in  the  Shell. 
Celery. 

Chocolate  Kisses. 
Neapolitan  Ice  Cream. 

Croustades  of  Chicken. 
Rissoles  o(  Macaroni. 



Boned  Turkey. 

MENU  No.  XXVII.— GENTLEMEN'S  SUPPER.      Page  55. 

Oyster  Salad. 

Clams  on  tlie  Half  Shell. 

Cheese  Curd  Puffs. 

Andakisian  Soup. 

Charlotte  Russc.      White  Lady  Fingers. 
Orange  Honey  Tartlet.-,. 

Broiled  Pompano,  Tartar  Sauce. 
Spanish  Stew. 

MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES.     Page  63 

Mashed  Potatoes  in  Form. 



Crab  Salad. 

About  Whipped  Cream. 

• 

Bavarian  Cream,  Best. 

Rum  Omelet. 

About  Puff  Paste. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

About  Savory  Jelly. 

Cheese.     Fruits.     Nuts.     Coffee. 

To  make  Aspic  Jelly, 

CHICAGO  HERALD 

COOKING  SCHOOL.                        123 

MENU  No,  XXXI.- DINNER.     Page  65. 

MENU  No.  XXXIV.-BREAKFAST.     Page  69. 

Bean  Soup. 

Fruit  Salad. 



Fried  Oysters. 

Salt  Whitefish,  Egg  Sauce. 

Calf's  Liver  and  Bacon  in  Gravy. 



Corn  Bread.     Hominy  Grits. 

Veal  and  Oyster  Pie. 

Baked  Bananas. 

Boiled  Hominy. 





MENU  No.  XXXV.— LUNCHEON.     Page  70. 

Indian  Pudding. 



Squash  Pie.          Pumpkin  Butter. 

Beef  Soup,  Anglaise. 

MENU  No.  XXXII.— TEA.     Page  66. 

Oyster  Pie,  Individual. 



Potatoes  Baked  in  Milk. 

Chicken  or  Turkey  Sausage. 



Grape  Sweet  Pickles. 

Corned  Beef  in  Aspic  Jelly. 

Chipped  Beef  in  Cream. 

Tomatoes  in  Mayonaise. 

Butter  Rolls  or  Tea  Cakes. 

Apple  Souffle.     Wafer  Gingerbread. 

Butter  Sponge  Cake.      Apple  Jelly. 





MENU  No.  XXXyill.— RECEPTION.     Page  75. 

MENU  No.  XXXIII. -GENTLEMEN'S  SUPPER.     Page  67. 



Potage  aux  Amandes. 

Mutton  Chops. 



Broiled  Kidneys. 

Olives.         Minced  Celery.           Cress. 

Broiled  Potatoes. 

Prawns  in  Butter.       French  Peas. 

Fillets  of  Trout,  Italienne. 

Sweet  Omelet  with  Jelly. 
Cheese  Cakes. 

Scalloped  Oysters  in  Shells. 

Potatoes  in  Mold. 

Reed  Birds  Roasted. 

MENU  No.  XXXVI.— DINNER.     Page  70. 

Rissoles  of  Partridge. 



Stewed  Celery. 

SOUP. 

Puree  of  Beans  with  Crustt 

Fillets  of  Turkey,  Mayonaise.      Salad. 

FISH. 

Snow  Cake  and  Fairy  Butter. 

Boiled  Codfish,  Oyster  Sauce. 

Pineapple  in  Liqueur. 

Potatoes. 

Meringue  Shells  Filled  with  Jellies. 



Apricot  Ice.            Macaroons. 

REMOVE. 

Wedding  Cake.     Fruits.     Water  Crackers. 

Roast  Turkey,  Cranberry  Sauce. 

Tea.      Fromage  de  Brie.     Coffee. 

Browned  Sweet  Potatoes. 





MENU  No,  XLI— BREAKFAST.     Page  85. 

ENTREES. 

Ragout  of  Sweetbreads  and  Mushrooms. 

Florida  Oranges. 

Stuffed  Onions. 

Fried  Chicken. 



Terrapin  Baked  or  Stewed. 

PASTRY  AND  DESSERT. 

Water  Cress  Salad. 

Indian  Fruit  Pudding. 

Horniny  Cake.      Cornmeal  Muffins, 

Mince  Pie.     Pumpkin  Custard.      Cakes. 

Apoicot  Marmalade. 

Cheese.            Fniit. 

Omelet  Soufflee, 

124                        CHICAGO  HERALD 

COOKING  SCHOOL. 

MENU  No.  XL  —BANQUET.     Page  So. 

MENU  No.  XXXIX.— SUPPER.     Page  78. 

Raw  Oysters  on  Shell. 

Stewed  Oysters. 

• 

Pickles.      Shred  Cabbage.     Crackers. 

Cold  Slaw.       Olives.       Winter  Salad. 



Fried  Smelts. 

SOUPS. 

Parisian  Potatoes. 

Consomme  Julienne.     Potage  a  la  Reine. 



Small  Patties. 

Teal  Ducks  Broiled,  Orange  Sauce. 



String  Beans,  French  Dressed. 

FISH. 

Fried  Hominy  Cakes. 

Baked  Sturgeon,  Anchovy  Sauce. 



Potato  CruUs. 

Chicken  Salad. 

REMOVES. 

Apple  Shortcake.      Grapes  Glazed  with  Sugar. 

Boiled  Corned  Tongue,  Caper  Sauce. 



Turkey  Stuffed  with  Chestnuts. 

ENU  No.  XLII.— LUNCHEON.     Page  87. 

Roast  Fillet  of  Beef  with  Mushrooms. 





Cream  of  Terrapin  Soup. 

ENTREES. 

Stewed  Lamb  with  Tomatoes. 

Truffled  Oysters.     Stuffed  Oysters  Broiled. 

Spaghetti  and  Cheese. 

Potted  Ham.         Sandwich  Rolls. 

Larded  Sweetbreads. 

Claret  Cup. 

VEGETABLES. 

■ 

Oyster  Plant  Croquettes. 

Galantine  with  Truffles. 

Baked  Winter  Squash. 

Pickled  Mangoes. 

Mashed  Parsnips. 



Chocolate  Layer  Cake.     Delicate  Cake. 

RUSSIAN  TEA  PUNCH. 

Frosted  Oranges. 

GAME. 

MENU  No.XLIIL-DINNER.     Page  90. 

Roast  Partridge  with  Cress. 

Dressed  Crab.                  Lettuce  Salad. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

PASTRY  AND  DESSERT. 

Soft  Shell  Crabs  Boiled. 

Custard  Fritters  Glazed  au  Curacoa. 



Lemon  Mince  Patties.          Rhubarb  Tarts. 

Boiled  Bacon  and  Cabbage. 

Frozen  Fig  Pudding. 

Larded  Fillet  of  Beef. 

Naples  Biscuits.    Angel  Food.    Frait  Cake. 

Stufifed  Tomatoes. 

Frosted  Grapes. 

Brie,  Neufchatel,  Camembert  Cheese. 

Chicken  Croquettes  with  Butter  Gravy. 

Crackers.       Fruits.        Nuts. 

Terrapin  Vol-au-Vent. 

Coffee. 

Stewed  Cucumbers. 

MENU   No.  XXXVII— TEA.     Page  74. 

ANGELICA  PUNCH. 



Roast  Grouse  with  Cress. 

Browned  Oysters. 



Chipped  Beef  in  Butter.     Chow  Chow. 

Fine  Hominy  Pudding. 

St.  Charles  Corn  Bread. 

Banana  Pie.         Cake. 

Compote  of  Apples.         Sponge  Cake. 

Cheese.     Fruits.      Nuts.     Coffee. 

CHICAGO  HERALD  COOKING  SCHOOL. 


125 


MENU  No.  XLIV.-DINNER.     Page  93. 

Split  Peas  Soup. 

Boiled  Rabbit  and  Salt  Pork. 

Roast  Sucking  Pig,  Apple  Sauce. 

Seakale.  Potatoes. 

Tapioca  Pudding.     Plain  Apple  Pie. 

Rice  Cup  Custard. 

Cake.  .Fruit. 

MENU  No.  XLV.— SUPPER.     Page  94. 

Old  Fashioned  Family  Beefsteak. 

Baked  Yams. 

Shrimp  Toast.      German  Apple  Cake. 

Molasses  Fruit  Cake.        Peach  Butter. 

MENU  No  XLVI.- BREAKFAST.     Page  95. 

Stewed  Rabbit. 

Hamburgh  Steak. 

Lyonaise  Potatoes. 

Omelet  with  Onions  and  Parsley. 

Yeast  Raised  Batter  Cake.s. 

MENU  No.  XLVII.— BUSINESS  LUNCH.     Page  96. 

Ox  Tail  Soup. 

Oysters  and  Macaroni,  Milanaise. 

Broiled  Guinea  Fowl.        Chicken  Pie 

Fried  Potatoes. 

Cider  Punch. 

MENU  No.  XLVIIL— CHURCH  FESTIVAL.     Page  97. 

Oyster  Stew  for  Fifty. 
Fried  Oysters  (Without  Eggs.) 

Clam  Chowder. 

Clam  Fritters  (Without  Eggs.) 

Boiled  Ham. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits. 

Ham  Sandwiches. 

Sweet  Buns  (Without  Eggs.) 

Meringue  Cakes. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. 

German  Cofiee  Cake.       German  Sugar  Tops,    i 

Coffee  for  a  Festival. 

Ice  Cream  and  Strawberries. 


MENU  No.  XLIX.-BREAKFAST.     Page  101. 

Fresh  Strawberries. 

Soft  Shell  Crabs,  Fried. 

Breaded  Veal  Cutlets,  Broiled. 
Sauteed  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Frog's  Legs  Fricasseed. 
Tongue  Toast. 

Potted  Tongue.         Ham  and  Eggs. 

Rice  Croquettes  with  Jelly. 

Finest  Breakfast  Rolls.' 

Waffles. 

Buttermilk.         Batter  Cakes. 

MENU  No.  L— DINNER.     Page  loi. 

Clams  on  the  Half  Shell. 
Florida  Tomatoes. 

SOUP. 
Terrapin. 

FISH. 

Sea  Bass  Stuffed  and  Baked. 

Potatoes. 

REMOVES. 

Roast  Leg  of  Mutton-. 
Roast  Green  Goose. 

ENTREES. 
Lambs'  Tongues  with  Artichokes. 

Supreme  of  Fowl  with  Asparagus. 
Scrambled  Brains  in  Patties. 

VEGETABLES. 

New  Potatoes,  Maitre  d' Hotel. 

Stewed  Butter  Beans. 

Artichokes  in  Sauce. 

PASTRY  AND  DESSERT. 

Rice  Custard  Pudding. 

Red  Cherry  Ice.  Raspberry  Tart. 

Queen  Cakes. 

Cheese.  Fruit.  Coifee. 


12d                       CHICAGO  HERALD  COOKING  SCHOOL 

MENU  No.  LI.-TEA.     Page  105. 

MENU  No.  Lll.— BALL  SUPPERS.    Page  106. 



Egg  Lemonade  for  Fifty. 

Deviled  Crabs. 

Catawl^a  Cup.             Plain  Lemonade. 

Buttered  Toast.                 Rice  Waffles. 
Country  Pancal<es. 
Peaclies  and  Cream. 

Boned  Turkey  Decorated  with  Jelly. 

Sandwiches  of  Potted  Rabbit. 

Sandwiches  of  Potted  Quail. 

Chicken  Salad.            Smoked  Tongue. 



Tliree  Cornered  Tarts. 

MISCELLANEOUS  RECIPES.     Page  110 

Strawljerry  Charlottes  in  Cases. 
Strawben-y  Whipped  Cream. 



Indian  River  Orange  Jelly. 

Icing  and  Ornamenting  Calces. 
Paper  Frills  and  Rosettes  for  Cutlets. 

Lemon  Honey  Drops. 

Wliipped  Cream  Frozen  in  Glasses. 

Maraschino,  Chocolate  and  Coffee  Creams. 

Potted  Lake  Herring  or  Cisco. 

Neapolitan  Cake. 

Curries. 

White  IVIountain  Cake 

Pressed  Corned  Beef. 
Head  Cheese  and  Brawn. 
Pork  Sausage. 

Layer  Fruit  Cake. 

Tokay  Grape  Ice. 

Hickory  Nut  Ice  Cream. 

Richest  Fruit  Cake. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

White  Coffee. 

ANALYTICAL  INDEX. 


WThe  Humtiers  Refer  to  the  Article  and  Hot  to  the  Page'^- 


About  aspic  jelly,  316. 

puff  paste,  315. 

soup  stock,  18. 

whipped  cream,  313. 
Almond  macaroons,  72. 

soup,  379. 
Anchovy  sauce,  420. 
Andalusian  soup,  271. 
Angel  food  cake,  443. 
Angelica  punch,  485. 
Apples,  baked,  219. 

cake,  German,  501. 

compote,  377. 

cream  for  shortcake,  411. 

dumplings,  2. 

evaporated  stewed,  195. 

fried,  298. 

jelly,  331. 

pie,  sliced,  240. 
plain,  496. 

sauce  for  meats,  31. 

shortcake,  410. 

souffle,  353. 

tarts,  574. 
Api-icot  ice,  395. 

marmalade,  457. 
Artichokes  as  a  vegetable,  548. 

garnish,  549. 
Articles  en  caisse,  85. 
Asparagus  on  toast,  25. 

points  with  fillets,  550. 

Bacon  and  cabbage,  476. 

liver,  223. 
Baking-powder,  to  make,  521. 
Batter-cakes,  bread,  82. 

corn,  228. 

rice,  15. 

without  eggs,  508. 

buckwheat,  299. 
Batter,  for  frying,  285. 
Balls,  codfish,  80. 

forcemeat,  157. 

egg,  for  soup,  156. 
Banana,  baked,  347. 

cream  pie,  490. 

fritters,  169. 

pie,  sliced,  489. 
Bai'ley  soup,  92. 
Bass,  fried  with  bacon,  233. 

sea  baked,  543. 
Bavarian  cream,  best,  514. 

ordinary,  290. 
Beans,  baked,  296. 

butter  or  lima,  547. 

French,  407. 


Beans,  navy,  stewed,  196. 

string,  164. 

puree  soup,  356. 

soup,  318. 
Beef,  chipped  in  butter,  374. 
in  cream,  327. 

boiled  with  horseradish, 
234. 

coUops  of,  in  glaze,  186. 

corned,  boiled,  1. 
pressed,  597. 
in  jelly,  351. 

fillet,  roast,  425. 

fillet,  larded,  477. 

heart,  .stuffed,  195. 

pot  pie,  J  90. 

ribs,  braised,  145. 

roast,  162. 

rolls,  braised,  11. 

soup,  348. 

steak,  family,  498. 
poi-terhouse,  62. 
tenderloin,  283. 
Beets,  boiled,  1. 

pickled,  116. 
Birds  reed,  roasted,  385. 
Birds  nest  pudding,  127. 
Biscuits,  buttermilk,  177. 

baking  powder,  522. 
Blanc-mange,  corn  starch,  104 
Bluefish,  stuffed,  207. 
Boiled  dinner.  New  Engl'd,  1. 
Boned  ducks,  with  jelly,  89. 

chicken,  truffied,  465. 

turkey,  306. 

galantine,  564. 

quail,  potted,  568. 
Boston  cream  cakes,  130. 
Bouchftos  a  la  reme,  255. 
Bouillon,  47. 
Brains,  to  cook,  363. 

croquettes  of,  165. 

patties,  of,  .551. 

scrambled,  with  eggs,  551 
Braising,  10. 
Brandy  sauce,  171. 
Breaded  calf's  head,  147. 
Bread  batter  cakes,  82. 

custard  pudding,  140. 

stuffing  for  fowls,  30. 
for  fish,  208. 
Breads. 

Boston  brown,  297. 
home-made  English,  88 

biscuits,  520  and  177. 

corn,  egg,  344. 


Breads,  corn. 

St.  Charles,  376. 
mufSns,  456. 

muffins,  wheat,  226. 

rolls,  butter,  330. 
breakfast,  537. 
French,  7. 
sandwich,  463. 

rusks,  45. 

sweet  buns,  523. 

tea  cakes,  251. 

Vienna  rolls,  218. 
Broiling,  plain,  40. 
Brook  trout,  86. 

fried  with  bacon,  233. 

potted,  595. 

fillets,  Italienne,  381. 
Brown  butter  sauce,  482. 

flour  thickening,  479. 

gravy,  478. 
Buckwheat  cakes,  299. 
Buns,  cheap,  522. 
Butter  beans,  547. 

peach,  502. 

pumpkin,  326. 

rolls  or  tea  cakes,  330. 

sauce,  44. 

sponge  cake,  332. 
Buttered  toast,  557. 

Cabbage,  summer,  476. 

winter,  1. 
Cakes. 

angel  food,  443. 

apple,  German,  501. 

black,  or  richest  fruit,  590. 

butter,  sponge,  332. 

brown,    ginger    cookies, 
220. 

cocoanut  macaroon,  56. 

common  gingerbread,  185 

coffee,  German,  525. 

coffee,  French,  45. 

chocolate  layer,  467. 

citron,  white,  59. 

cream,  small,  243. 

delicate,  468. 

family  fruit,  503. 

fruit,  rich,  444. 

ginger  snaps,  17. 

icing  for,  60. 

jeUy,  36. 
roU,  175. 
white,  252. 

layer,  fruit,  587. 

meringue,  523. 


Cakc's. 

Chicken,  how  to  cut  up,  77. 

Crabs,  soft  shell,  boiled,  475. 

Napoleon,  52. 

Maryland  style,  293. 

fried,  530. 

Neapolitan,  585. 

patties,  255. 

Cracked  wheat,  6. 

pound,  74. 

pie,  family,  512. 

Cranberry  sauce,  46. 

pound,  fruit,  291. 

roast,  23. 

for  meats,  361. 

queen,  555. 

stewed,  76. 

jelly,  46. 

rich  cookies,  300. 

salad,  408. 

Cream  apple,  411. 

lady-flngers,  442. 

Spanish  stew,  274. 

Bavarian,  314. 

sponge  drops,  212. 

truffled,  boned,  465. 

imitation,  290. 

sponge,  378. 

prairie,  roast,  486. 

cakes,  Boston,  130. 

small  sponge,  152. 

Chipped  beef,  in  cream,  329. 

maraschino,  278. 

sponge  gingerbread,  220. 

in  butter,  374. 

peaches  and,  560. 

snow,  388. 

Chocolate,  229. 

pastry,  54. 

Scotch  seed,  105. 

cream  tarts,  173. 

puffs,  130. 

fine  white,  469 

kisses,  2  69. 

French,  262. 

mountain,  586. 

layer  cake,  467. 

Roman,  253. 

wedding,  396. 

icing,  470. 

strawberries  and,  528. 

Calf's  head,  to  clean,  141. 

plain  glaze,  472. 

Cream  ,soup,  celery,  19. 

breaded,  147. 

whipped  cream,  584. 

cauliflower,  206. 

in  vinegar  sauce,  167. 

Chow-chow,  home  made,  375. 

potato.  19S. 

soused,  1B7. 

Chowder,  clam,  517 

terrapin,  459. 

soup,  142. 

Cider  punch,  513. 

Croquettes  of  brains,  165 

Calf's  hver,  246. 

Cisco,  potted,  595. 

chicken,  481. 

Canapes,  or  Welsh  rarebit,  69. 

Clams,  on  half  shell,  270. 

partridge,  384. 

Candles  (see  Appendix). 

chowder,  517. 

potato,  50. 

Candy,  cocoanut,  154. 

fritters,  516. 

rice,  538. 

Caper  sauce,  96. 

Claret  cup,  464. 

salsify,  426. 

Catawba  cup,  563. 

Clarifying  frying  fat,  84. 

Crullers,  or  fried  cakes,  83. 

Catsup,  tomato,  600. 

Cocoanut  pie,  35. 

CruUs,  potato,  421. 

Cauliflower,  in  cream,  236. 

Codfish,  boUed,  358. 

Crusts,  fried  for  garnishing, 

'?.ream  soup,  206. 

balls,  80. 

365. 

salad,  249. 

Coffee,  ice  cream,  38. 

for  soup,  357. 

Celery,  to  curl,  302. 

for  a  festival,  527. 

Cucumbers,  stewed,  484. 

cream  soup,  19. 

to  make,  75. 

salad,  143. 

salad,  32. 

white,  for  parties,  592. 

Cup  Catawba,  563. 

stewed,  386. 

whipped  cream,  .582. 

claret,  464. 

with  cheese,  baked,  126. 

Cold  slaw,  414. 

custard,  497. 

Charlotte  russe,  278. 

CoUops  of  beef,  186. 

and  spoon  measure,  5 

individual,  252. 

Compote  of  apples,  377. 

Curacoa  sauce,  488. 

with  pure  cream,  311. 

Consomme,  royal,  118. 

Curries,  596. 

with  gelatine  creams,  289. 

aux  pates  d'ltaUe,  301. 

Custard  fritters,  glazed,  436. 

strawberry,  for  fifty,  576. 

aux  petits  pois,  254. 

rice,  cup,  497. 

paper  cases,  575. 

JuUenne,  418. 

tapioca,  cup,  495. 

Cheese  canapes,  69. 

Sevigne,  131. 

wine,  cup,  213. 

celery,  baked  with,  126. 

Cookies,  4  and  300. 

pastry,  54. 

cream,  109. 

Corn  batter  cakes,  228. 

pudding,  552. 

sour  milk,  110. 

bread,  344. 

bread,  140. 

curd  puffs,  309. 

St.  Charles,  376. 

Cutlets,  chicken,  48. 

dinner,  446. 

meal  pudding,  boiled,  183. 

lamb,  a  dish  of,  39. 

pigs'  head,  598. 

mush,  or  porridge,  215. 

veal,  breaded,  531. 

liver,  286. 

muffins,  456. 

macaroni  and,  27. 

starch,  blanc  mange,  104. 

Delicate  cake,  468. 

spaghetti  and,  432. 

pudding,  193. 

Devilled  crabs,  556. 

toasted,  or  Welsh  rarebit. 

pudding,  Kentucky,  97. 

Doughnuts,  best  yeast,  16i 

69. 

fried,  or  mock  oysters,  12. 

Double  tenderloin,  283. 

Cheesecakes,  340. 

and  tomatoes,  258. 

Dressed  crab,  435. 

Cherry  ice,  red,  554. 

Corned  beef  brine,  106. 

Dressing,  bread,  for  fowls,  30. 

pudding,  202. 

and  cabbage,  1. 

for  fish,  208. 

Chestnuts,  sauce,  428. 

pressed,  597. 

salad,  best,  571. 

turkey  with,  427. 

in  jelly,  351. 

salad,  without  oil,  250. 

Chicken  croquettes,  481. 

tongue,  422. 

mayonaise  salad,  68. 

croustades  of,  304. 

Country  pancakes,  559. 

mock  mayonaise,  409. 

cutlets,  48. 

Crabs,  devUled,  556. 

oyster,  for  turkey,  24. 

fillets,  supreme  of,  550. 

dressed,  435. 

Dry  hop  yeast,  108. 

fried,  450. 

salad,  276. 

Ducks,  boned,  89. 

Ducks,  mallard,  roast,  29. 

toal,  broilBd,  404. 
Dumplings,  apple,  2. 

egg,  for  stewed  chicken, 
79. 

light  pot  pie,  191. 

Eclairs,  glazed,  263. 

Eels,  breaded  and  fried,  221. 

Egg  balls,  for  soup,  156. 

bread,  corn,  344. 

dumplings,  79. 

lemonade,  561. 

plant,  fried  in  batter,  284. 
sauteed,  237. 

salad,  260. 

sauce,  320. 
Eggs  and  ham,  536. 

poached,  294. 

Fairy  butter,  389. 

Family  broiled  beefsteak,  498. 

fruit  cake,  503. 
Festival,  coffee  for,  527. 

oysters  for,  515. 
Fine  hominy  or  samp,  346. 
Fig  pudding,  frozen,  441. 
Finnan  haddocks,  216. 
Finger  biscuits,  442. 
Fillets  of  fowl,   supreme  of, 
550. 

beef,  424. 
larded,  477. 

of  trout,  381. 

r:si>. 

bass,  sea,  baked,  543. 
bass,  black,  fried,  233. 
bluefish,  stuffed,  207. 
Cisco,  or  trout,  381. 
elams,  raw,  270. 
clam  fritters,  516. 
codfish,  boiled,  358. 
crabs,  devUled,  556. 
eels,  221. 

flnnan  baddies,  216. 
haddock,  boiled,  358. 
lake  herring,  595. 
lobster,  in  shell,  303. 
Mackinaw  trout,  93. 
mackerel,  boiled,  244. 
pompano,  broiled,  272. 
pickerel,  baked,  199. 
prawns,  in  butter,  336. 
red  snapper,  132. 
salmon,  middle  cut,  280. 

steaks,  boiled,  20. 
broiled,  144. 
shad,  broiled,  120. 
smelts,  fried,  402. 
soft  shell  crabs,   boiled, 

475. 

fried,  530. 
St li PLji-'on ,  baked,  419. 
Floating  islands,  211. 


Fowls,  to  cut  up,  77. 

stewing,  78. 

Mets,    with    asparagus, 
550. 

guinea,  broiled,  511. 
Forcemeat  for    fish,   87  and 
543. 

boned  turkey,  307. 

balls,  for  entrees,  157. 
Freezing  ice  cream,  38. 
French  rolls,  7. 

rusks,  45. 

cream  puffs,  262. 

fried  potatoes,  122. 

peas,  in  sauce  337. 
Fresh  mushrooms,  63. 

strawberries,  529. 
Fried  apples,  298. 

cakes  or  crullers,  83. 

crusts  for  garnishing,  365. 

oysters,  343. 

parsley,  49. 

mush,  224. 
Fricasseed  frogs,  533. 
Fritters,  banana,  169. 

custard,  436. 

batter  for,  285. 

parsnip,  125. 

queen,  33. 

Spanish  puff,  239. 

sauce  for,  437. 
Frizzed  potatoes,  65. 
Frogs,  fried,  on  toast,  257. 

fricasseed,  533. 
Frosting,  for  cakes,  60. 
Frosted  grapes,  445. 

oranges,  473. 
Frozen  fig  pudding,  441. 
Fruit  cake,  layer,  587. 

rich,  396. 

richest,  or  black,  590. 

pound,  291. 

molasses,  cheap,  503. 

Walantine,  or  turkey  in  jelly, 

564. 
Game. 

mallard  duck,  29. 

partridge,  roast,  434. 
rissoles  of,  384. 

rabbit,  boiled,  492. 
stewed,  504. 
potted,  566. 

prairie  chicken,  roast,  486 

quail,  potted,  5C8. 

reed  birds,  385. 

teal  ducks,  404. 
Gingerbread,  common,  185. 

sponge,  220. 

wafer,  or  fairy,  354. 

cookies,  220. 

snaps,  17. 
Glace,  Napohtaine,  266. 

Nosselrodc,  73. 
Glazed  eclairs,  263. 


Golden  sauce  for  puddings, 

324. 
Goose,  roast,  546. 
Graham  muffins,  13. 
Grapes,  frosted,  445. 

glazed  with  sugar,  412. 
ice.  Concord,  267. 

Tokay,  588. 

sweet  pickle,  328. 

Green  peas.  138. 

Greens,  radish  or  beet,  98. 

Guinea  fowl,  broiled,  511. 

pie,  512. 

Haddocck,  orcod,  boiled,  358 
Haddies,  finnan,  216. 
Ham,  for  a  festival,  518. 

cold  roast,  261. 

and  spinach,  123. 
eggs,  536. 

sandwiches,  519. 

potted,  462. 
Hamburgh  steak,  505. 
Handed  supper  salad,  570. 
Hard  sauce  puddings,  203. 
Head  cheese,  596. 
Heart,  stuffed.  195. 
Hickory  nut  ice  cream,  589. 
Hominy  cakes,  fried,  406. 
Hominy,  coarse,  322. 

grits,  346. 

pudding,  487. 

cake,  baied,  452. 
Home-made  bread,  88. 

vinegar,  117. 

chow-chow,  375. 

pickles.  111  and  466. 
HoUandaise  sauce,  22. 

potatoes,  21. 
Horseradish  sauce,  234. 
Hot  slaw,  188. 

Ices. 

angelica  punch,  485. 
apricot  ice,  395. 
Concord  grape  ice,  267. 
coffee  ice  cream,  38. 
fig  pudding,  frozen,  4-^  1. 
hickory  nut  ice  cream.  TiS'.i 
ice  cream  and  strawbt'r- 

ries,  528. 

with  pure  cream,  205. 
maraschino  punch,  288 
Neapolitan,  266. 
Nesselrode,  73. 
New  York  ice  cream,  153. 
orange  ice,  61. 
lemon  ice  or  sherbet,  224. 
red  cherry  ice,  554. 
Russian  punch,  433. 
strawberry  punch,  214. 
tutti  frutti  ice  cream.  174. 
whipped  creams,  in  glasb- 

es,  .581. 
Icing  cake,  quickest,  264. 


Icing  and  ornamcntinfj,  593. 

chocolate,  471. 

yellow,  265. 
Iced  tea,  397. 

Indian  river  orange  jelly,  578. 
Indian  pudding,  baked,  241. 

fruit  pudding,  367. 
Italian  cakes,  212. 

sauce,  382. 

JeUy,  apple,  331. 

aspic,  or  savory.  331. 
cake,  36. 
cranberry,  46. 
lemon,  table,  393. 
roll,  175. 
soda  water,  58. 
tapioca,  3. 
wine  and  fruit,  393. 

Kale,  or  seakale,  boiled,  494. 
Kentucky  green    corn    pud- 
ding, 97. 
Ketchup,  tomato,  600. 
Kidneys,  broiled,  333. 
Kisses,  chocolate,  269. 
star,  392. 

liady-fingers,  442. 

white,  312. 
Lake  herring,  or  Cisco,  381. 

potted,  594. 
Lamb  cutlets,  broiled,  39. 
roast,  135. 
stewed,    with   tomatoes, 

431. 
tongues,  with  artichokes, 
549. 
Larded  fillet  of  beef,  477. 
liver,  235. 

prairie  chicken,  486. 
Layer  fruit  cake,  587. 
Lemonade,  egg,  for  fiftj',  561, 

plain,  562. 
Lemon  butter  sauce,  368. 
cream  pie,  149. 
honey,  580. 

drops,  579. 
mincemeat,  439. 
mince  patties,  438. 
pie,  best,  common,  101. 
rich,  129. 
cheapest,  without  eggs 

204. 
frosting  for,  103. 
table  jelly,  394. 
Lettuce  salad,  182. 
Light  dumplings,  191. 
Liver,  broiled,  217. 
and  bacon,  223. 

onions,  235. 
a  !a  brochette,  246. 
cake,  or  cheese,  286. 
and  pork  in  gravy,  345. 
Lobster,  in  shell,  303, 


Lobster  salad,  287  and  51. 
Lyonaise  potatoes,  506. 

Macaroni,  with  cheese,  27. 
oysters,  510. 
tomatoes,  238. 
rissoles  of,  305. 
fried,  259. 
Macaroon  tarts,  70. 
cake,  56. 
paste,  57. 
almond,  72. 
Mackerel,  244. 
Maids  of  honor  cheesecakes, 

339. 
Maitre  d'hotel  sauce,  121. 
Mallard  duck,  29. 
Mango  pickles,  466. 
Maraschino  cream,  278. 
punch,  288. 
ice,  in  glasses,  .583. 
Marmalade,  apricot,  457. 

rhubarb,  440. 
Mayonaise  dressing,  08. 
mock,  409. 
jelly,  387. 
Meat,  dish  of,  cold,  8. 

balls  for  soup,  157. 
Meats. 

beef,  roast,  162. 
tenderloin  of,  424. 
larded,  fillet  of,  477. 
rib  ends  of,  145. 
rolls,  braised,  11. 
boiled,  with  horserad- 
ish, 234. 
corned,  1. 

coUops  of,  in  glaze,  186. 
steak,  porterhouse,  62. 
tenderloin,  283. 
family,  broiled,  498. 
Hamourgh,  505. 
pot-pie,   190. 
dried,  374. 
heart,  195. 
tongue,  569. 
corned,  422. 
lamb,  roast,  135. 
stewed,  431. 
cutlets,  39. 
tongues,  549. 
mutton,  roast,  544. 
breast  of,  180. 
boiled,  95. 
chops,  355. 

stew,  with  vegetables, 
176. 
veal,  loaf,  248. 
brisket,  stuffed,  200. 
cutlets,  531. 
and  oyster  pie,  321. 
calf's  head,  141. 
liver,  217. 
kirlnrys,  333. 
pork,  sausage,  5S9, 


Moats. 

pork,  head  cheese,  596. 

pig  roast,  493. 
ham,  roast,  123. 
boiled,  518. 
potted,  462. 
broiled,  536. 
chicken  pie,  512. 
roast,  23. 
stewed,  76. 
outlets,  48. 
patties,  255. 
Maryland  style,  293. 
fried,  450. 
fillets  of,  550. 
croquettes,  481. 
timbales  v.ith,  304. 
trulHed,  465. 
salad,  408. 
prairie,  486. 
goose,  roast,  546. 
turkey,  roast,  360. 
with  chestnuts,  427. 
sausage,  327. 
boned,  306. 
fillets  of,  387. 
galantine,  564. 
Measures,  cup  and  spoon,  5. 
Melon  salad,  341. 
Meringue  strawberry,  150. 
chocolate,  269. 
cakes,  523. 
for  lemon  pies,  103. 
Meringues  filled  with  j  elly,  39 1 
Middle  cut  of  salmon,  280. 
Mincemeat,  lemon,  439. 
good  common,  370. 
Mince  patties,  438. 
Minced  potatoes,  41. 
Mint  sauce  for  lamb,  137. 
Mock  turtle  soup,  155. 
Molasses  roll  pudding,  189. 
Muffins,  corn  meal,  456. 
graham,  13. 
wheat,  227. 
of  fight  dough,  226. 
Mush,  cracked  wheat,  6. 
corn  meal,  215. 
oatmeal,  292. 
fried,  breaded,  224. 
plain,  225. 
Mushrooms,  fresh,  63. 

canned,  64. 
Mutton  chops,  335. 
roast  leg  of,  544. 

]\fapoleon  cake,  52. 
Neapolitan  cake,  585. 

ice  eream,  266. 
Nesselrode  ice  cream,  73. 

©atmeal  mush  or  porridge, 

292. 
Olives,  415. 
Omelet,  oyster,  66. 


Omelet  with  jelly,  338. 

Peaches  and  cream,  569. 

Hollandaise,  21. 

soufflee,  458. 

Peach  butter,  502. 

lyonaise,  506. 

rum,  277. 

Pear,  sweet,  salad,  37, 

maitre  d'hotel,  545. 

with  onions,  507. 

Peas,  French  canned,  337. 

mashed,  94. 

parsley,  507. 

soup,  split,  495. 

in  form,  275. 

Onion  soup,  179. 

new,  green,  138. 

in  mold,  383. 

Onions,  roasted,  187. 

Pickerel,  baked,  199. 

minced,  41. 

stuffed,  366. 

Pickles. 

parisienne,  282. 

Orange  ice,  61. 

beets,  116. 

Saratoga,  222. 

honey  tartlets,  310. 

celery  roots,  114. 

Potato  cream  soup,  198. 

jelly,  red,  578. 

chow-chow,  375. 

salad,  plain,  9. 

sauce  for  game,  405. 

carrots,  young,  115. 

yeast,  107. 

transparent  tarts,  91. 

grape,  sweet,  328. 

Potage  aux  amandes,  379. 

Oranges,  breakfast,  449. 

mangoes,  466. 

a  la  reine,  417. 

frosted,  473. 

nasturtiums,  111. 

Potted  veal,  or  veal  loaf,  248. 

Ornamental  boned  turkey,  564 

radish  pods,  112. 

ham,  462. 

Ornamenting  cakes,  593. 

sweet  corn,  ears,  113. 

tongue,  535. 

Ox-tail  soup,  509. 

Pickle  or  brine  for  meat,  106. 

quail,  568. 

Oyster  plant,  stewed,  148. 

Pineapple,  sweet  salad,  390. 

rabbit,  566. 

croquettes.  426. 

Pig,  roast  sucking,  493. 

lake  herring,  595. 

Oysters,  green  corn,  mock,  12 

Pie  paste,  common,  102  and 

Pound  cake,  74. 

Oysters. 

204. 

fruitcake,  291. 

dry  stew,  400. 

Pies. 

Prairie  chicken,  486. 

fancy  stew,  401. 

apple,  plain,  496. 

Prawns  in  butter,  336. 

milk  stew,  398. 

sliced,  rich,  240. 

Pressed  corned  beef,  597. 

plain  stew,  399. 

cream,  411. 

Puddings. 

stew  for  fifty,  514. 

banana,  sliced,  489. 

birds'  nest,  127. 

scalloped  in  silver  shells. 

cream,  490. 

bread  custard,  140. 

380. 

cocoanut,  white,  35. 

oherrj',  steamed,  202. 

sauteed,  in  butter,  373. 

lemon,  best,  common,  101 

corn  meal,  boiled,  183. 

fried,  without  eggs,  515. 

rich,  129. 

corn  starch,  193. 

breaded,  single  and  dou- 

cream,  149. 

fine  hominy,  487. 

'  ble,  342. 

mince,  439. 

Indian,  brown,  323. 

omelet,  66. 

cheapest,  covered,  204. 

rich,  241. 

raw,  on  shell,  413. 

pumpkin  or  squash,  369. 

plum,  367. 

truffled,  460. 

raspberry,  563. 

molasses  roU,  189. 

stuffed,  broiled,  461. 

rhubarb,  172. 

plum,  170. 

soup,  279. 

squash  or  pumpkm,  325. 

rice  and  milk,  178. 

salad,  308. 

Washington,  197. 

custard,  baked,  552. 

sauce,  359. 

beef  pot-pie,  190. 

suet,  boiled,  99.      •  ^ 

pies,  349. 

chicken,  512. 

tapioca,  495. 

and  veal  pie,  321. 

oyster,  349. 

Pudding,  green  corn,  97. 

and  macaroni,  510. 

squab  or  pigeon,  209. 

Yorkshire,  for  meat,  146. 

stuffing  for  fowls,  24. 

veal  and  oyster,  321. 

Pudding  sauces. 

Plain  broiling,  40. 

brandy  or  wine,  171. 

Pancakes,  country,  559. 

Plum  pudding,  170. 

cream,  128. 

Paper  cases  for  charlottes,  575 

Poached  eggs,  294. 

ouracoa,  488. 

rosettes  for  cutlets,  594. 

Pompano  broiled,  272. 

golden,  324. 

cases,  85. 

Pork  sausage,  599. 

hard  butter  and  sugar,  203 

Parsley  omelet,  507. 

Porridge,  corn  meal,  215. 

lemon  butter,  368. 

fried,  49. 

cracked  wheat,  6. 

sugar  dip,  184. 

Parsnips,  browned,  163. 

oatmeal,  292. 

transparent,  34. 

mashed,  423. 

Potatoes. 

white,  100. 

fritters,  125. 

baked  and  boiled,  192. 

Puff  fritters,  239  and  33. 

Partridge,  rissoles  of,  384. 

baked  in  milk,  350. 

Puff  paste.  53. 

roast,  434. 

boulettes,  292. 

Puffs,  Boston  cream,  130. 

Paste  puff,  53. 

broiled,  334. 

French  cream,  262. 

sweet  tart,  71. 

browned,  139. 

cheese  curd,  309. 

macaroon,  57. 

cream  a  la,  403. 

Pumpkin  butter,  326. 

for  plain  pies,  102. 

croquettes,  50. 

custard  pie,  369. 

Pastry  cream  for  puffs,  54. 

cruUs,  421. 

Punch,  angelica,  485. 

Patties,  small  au  salpicon,  158 

dauphine,  161. 

cider,  513. 

chicken,  255. 

duchesse,  134. 

maraschino,  288. 

brains  in,  551. 

French  fried,  122. 

Roman,  28. 

Patty  cases,  vol-au-vent,  256. 

frizzed  or  shoestring,  65. 

Russian  tea,  433. 

VI. 


Punch,  stra-vvberry,  214. 

Salads. 

Slaw,  hot,  188. 

Puree  soups,  355. 

potato,  9. 

Smearkase,  110. 

of  beans  soup,  356. 

shrimp,  42. 

Smoked  tongue,  569. 

turkey,  67. 

Smelts,  402. 

Quail,  potted,  56S. 

in  mayonaise,  387. 

Snow  cake,  388. 

Queen  fritters,  33. 

tomatoes,  sliced,  119. 

Soft  shell  crabs,  fried,  550. 

cakes,  555. 

in  mayonaise,  352. 

boiled,  475. 

Quenelles,  or  egg  balls,  156. 

water  cress,  451. 

Souffles  beignets,  33. 

winter,  416. 

apple,  353. 

Rabbit,  boiled,  salt  pork,  492 

Salmon,  boiled,  middle   cut, 

omelet,  458. 

potted,  565. 

280. 

Soup  stocbr  management,  18. 

stewed,  504. 

steak,  broiled,  144. 

Soups,  puree,  355. 

Radish  greens,  98. 

boiled,  20. 

crusts  for,  357. 

Ragout  of  sweetbreads,  364. 

SaUy  lunn  tea  cakes,  251. 

Soups. 

Raisins,  to  clean,  372. 

Salsify,  stewed,  148. 

Andalusian,  271. 

Raspberry  tart,  553. 

croquettes,  426. 

beans,  318. 

Raw  oysters,  413. 

Salt  whitefish,  320. 

puree  of,  335. 

clams,  541. 

mackerel,  245. 

bouillon,  47. 

Reed  birds,  385. 

Samp,  346. 

calf's  head,  142. 

Rechauffe  of  meat,  8. 

pudding,  487. 

cauliflower  cream,  206. 

Red  snapper,  boiled,  132. 

Sandwiches,  ham,  519. 

celery  cream,  19. 

cherry  ice,  554. 

of  potted  quail,  567. 

consomme  royal,  118. 

Rhubarb  marmalade,  440. 

of  potted  rabbit,  565. 

Sevigne,  131. 

pie,  172. 

Sandwich  rolls,  463. 

with  green  peas,  254. 

Rice  batter  cakes,  15. 

Saratoga  chips,  223. 

aux  pates  d'ltalie,  301. 

croquettes,  538. 

Sauces. 

cream  of  terrapin,  459. 

cup  custard,  497. 

apple,  31. 

julienne,  418. 

custard  pudding,  552. 

anchovy,  420. 

leg  of  beef,  348. 

milk  pudding,  178. 

bechamel,  166. 

mock  turtle,  155. 

wafaes,  558. 

butter,  44. 

onion,  179. 

with  curries,  596. 

brown  butter,  482. 

oyster,  279. 

Rissoles  of  macaroni,  305. 

caper,  96. 

ox- tail,  509. 

partridge,  384. 

chestnut,  428. 

potage  a  la  reine,  417. 

Rolls  butter,  330. 

cranberry,  361. 

aux  amandes,  379. 

French,  7. 

cream,  130. 

potato  cream,  198. 

finest  breakfast,  537. 

egg,  320. 

Scotch  barley,  92. 

Vienna,  218. 

hoUandaise,  22. 

spUt  peas,  491. 

sandwich,  463. 

horseradish,  234. 

terrapin,  542. 

Roman  punch,  28. 

Italian,  382. 

tomato,  232. 

cream,  253. 

maitre  d'hotel,  121. 

vegetable,  474. 

Rum  omelet,  277. 

mint,  137. 

Sour  milk  cheese,  110. 

Russian  punch,  433. 

orange,  for  game,  405. 

Spaghetti  with  cheese,  432. 

Rusks,  or  coflfeo  calces,  45. 

oyster,  359. 

Spanish  puff  fritters,  239. 

Rutabagas,  181. 

Scotch  fish,  281. 

stew,  274. 

shrimp,  133. 

Spinach,  124. 

Salad  dressing,  without  oU, 

tartar,  160. 

Sponge  cake,  four-egg,  442. 

250. 

tartar  or  Russian,  273. 

water,  378. 

best,  571. 

pudding  sauces — index  P. 

savoy,  151. 

mayonaise,  68. 

Sauce,  dumplings  cooked  in,  2 

ginger  cake,  220. 

mock  mayonaise,  409. 

Sausage,  pork,  599. 

Spring  chicken,  293. 

Salads. 

turkey  or  chicken,  327. 

Squab  or  pigeon  pie,  209. 

cabbage,  32. 

Savory  jelly,  317. 

Squash  pie,  325. 

cauliflower,  249. 

Scalloped  oysters,  380. 

summer,  201. 

celery,  32. 

Scotch  seed  cake,  105. 

winter,  baked,  429. 

chicken,  408. 

barley  soup,  92. 

Steamed  brown  bread,  81. 

crab,  276. 

Scrambled  brains,  551. 

Steak,  salmon,  20  and  144. 

cucumber,  143. 

Sea  bass,  baked,  543. 

double  tenderloin,  283. 

dressed  crab,  435. 

Seakale,  496. 

porterhouse,  62. 

egg,  260. 

Shad,  maitre  d'hotel,  120. 

Hamburgh,  505. 

for  handed  supper,  570. 

Sherbet,  lemon,  242. 

Stew,  oyster,  398. 

lettuce,  182. 

Shortcake,  apple,  410. 

for  fifty,  514. 

lobster,  51  and  287. 

strawberry,  524. 

Stewed  terrapin,  455. 

melon,  341. 

Shrimp  sauce,  133. 

frogs,  533. 

pear,  sweet,  37. 

toast,  500. 

Strawberry  charlottes,  576. 

pineapple,  sweet,  390. 

Slaw,  cold,  414. 

punch,  214. 

strawberry  shortcake,  524. 

■whipped  cream,  577. 

meringue,  150. 
Strawberries,  fresh,  529. 

and  ice  cream,  528. 
String  beans,  164. 

French  dressed.  407. 
Stuffing  for  boned  duck,  90. 

bread,  30. 

oyster,  24. 
Stuffed  oysters,  broiled,  461. 

tomatoes,  480. 

onions,  366. 

veal,  200. 
Sturgeon,  baked,  419. 
Suet  pie  crust,  321  and  102. 

pudding,  99. 
Sugar  tops,  526. 

glaze,  55. 
Summer  squash,  201. 
Sucking  pig  roast,  493. 
Sweetbreads,  to  cook,  363. 

au  beurre  noir,  26. 

ragout  of,  364. 

larded,  430. 
Sweet  pickle,  328. 
Sweet  potatoes,  fried,  295. 
browned,  362. 
sauteed,  532. 
baked,  499. 
Sweet  salad,  pear,  37. 
pineapple,  390. 

Tapioca  jelly,  3. 

pudding,  495. 

cup  custard,  497. 
Tartar  sauce,  160. 
Tartlets,  orange  honey,  310. 
Tarts,  apple,  574. 

macaroon,  70. 

orange,  91. 

chocolate  cream,  173. 

raspberry,  553. 

three-cornered,  574. 
Tea,  iced,  397. 

for  a  large  party,  591. 

cakes,  251. 
Teal,  broiled,  404. 
Tenderloin  of  beef,  424. 

steaks,  283. 
Terrapin,  baked  in  shell,  454. 

cream  soup,  459. 

soup,  542. 

stewed,  455. 

to  dress,  453. , 

vol  au  vents,  483. 
Timbales  with  chicken,  304. 
Tomatoes  and  com,  258. 

with  macaroni,  238. 

soup,  232. 

stewed,  210. 

ketchup,  600. 

stuffed,  480. 

in  mayonaise,  352. 

sUced.  119. 
Toast,  buttered,  557. 


Toast  tongue,  534. 

shrimp,  500. 
Tokay  grape  ice,  588. 
Tongue,  corned,  422. 

smoked,  569. 

potted,  535. 

toast,  534. 

lambs',  549. 
Truffled  chicken,  465. 

oysters,  460. 
Turkey,  boned,  306. 

galantine,  564. 

salad,  67. 

roast,  cranberry,  360. 
chestnuts,  427. 

fillets,  in  mayonaise,  387. 

sausage,  327. 
Turnips,  mashed,  181. 
Tutti  frutti  ice  cream,  174. 

Veal  cutlets,  breaded,  531. 

brisket,  stuffed,  200. 

and  oyster  pie,  321. 

loaf,  248. 

potted,  247. 
Vegetable  soup,  474. 


artichokes,  butter  sauce, 

548. 

in  gravy,  549. 
asparagus  on  toast,  25. 

points,  garnish,  550. 
beans,  baked,  296. 

Lima,  or  butter,  547. 

string,  164  and  407. 

navy,  stewed,  196. 
beets,  boiled,  1. 

pickled,  116, 
cabbage,  summer,  476. 

wiiiter,  1. 
cauliflower,  236. 
celery,  302. 

stewed,  386. 

with  cheese,  126. 
com,  258. 

fried,  12. 
green  com  pudding,  97. 
cucumbers,  143. 

stewed,  484. 
egg  plant,  fried,  237. 

in  batter,  284. 
green  peas,  138. 

canned,  337. 
greens,  radish,  98. 

spinach,  124. 

beet,  98. 
hominy,  322. 
kale,  494. 
lettuce,  182. 
mushrooms,  canned,  64. 

fresh,  63. 
onions,  boiled,  1. 

fried,  235. 

stuffed,  366. 

roasted,  187. 
oyster  plant,  148. 


Vegetables. 

oyster  croquettes,  426. 
parsnips,  boiled,  1. 

browned,  163. 

mashed,  423. 

fritters,  125. 
potatoes — index  P. 
radish  greens,  98. 
rutabagas,  181. 
spinach,  124. 
salsify,  148. 
slaw,  hot,  188. 
sweet  potatoes — index  S. 
squash,  summer,  201. 

winter,  429. 
tomatoes,  119.. 

stewed,  210. 

with  com,  258. 

stuffed,  baked.  480. 
turnips,  boiled,  1. 

mashed,  181. 
yams,  halved,  499. 
Vienna  rolls,  218. 
Vinegar,  home-made,  117. 
Vol-au-vents,  or  patty  cases, 
256. 
of  terrapin,  483. 

chicken,  255. 

Wafer  gingerbread,  354. 
Waffles,  rice,  558. 

baking  powdei",  540. 

yeast-raised,  539. 
Washington  pie,  197.  _ 
Water  cress  salad,  451. 
Water  sponge  cake,  378. 
Wedding  cake,  396  and  444. 
Welsh  rarebit,  69. 
Wheat  muffins,  226. 

porridge,  6. 
White  cake,  fine,  469. 

coffee,  for  party,  592. 

jelly  roll,  252.  ' 

lady  fingers,  312. 

mountain  cake,  586. 

sponge  cake,  443. 
Whitefish,  baked,  159. 
AVhipped  cream,  313. 

frozen  in  glasses.  581. 

strawberry  for  charlottes, 
577. 
Wine  custard,  213. 

jelUes,  393. 
meringues  with,  391. 
Winter  salad,  416. 

squash,  429. 

Yeast  batter  cakes,  508. 

doughnuts,  16. 

graham  muffins,  13. 

waffles,  539. 
Yeast,  dry  hop,  108. 

potato,  107. 
Yams,  baked,  499. 
Yellow  icing,  265. 
Yorkshire  pudding,  146 


